The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 38 No. 1 March, 1960 

INOTRE 
J.\.MES E. .AU.\ISTRO.VG, '23 
Editor 
JOH.V F. L.\UGI1I.IN, Ml) Manaiiini; Editor 

<t* 
Takins; a motiientary breather from a crowded agenda at the .Morris Inn on campus are most of the participants in joint ineetings of the .Aliiiiini .Association Board of Directors and the liiennial C1.T.SS Secretaries Conference, held January 14-17. 
.• A New Universily Library (See pp. 2-3; editorial, p. 4; president's letter, p. 36) 
• 37th Universal Notre Dame Night — 1960 (Story on p. 5) 
•The 1960 Class Reunions (Preview on p. 35) 
• 
• The Sublime Tradition (See insert, center pp.) 
At the January meeting of the .Vlumni .Vssn. Board of Directors, newly elect ed national ollicers conferred with the .\lumni staff: (I. to r.) Kxectitive Secretary James E. .Vriiistrong. "25; I"und \'ice-l'resident I'aul J. Gushing. '31: President John G. O'Connor. '38; Club r\inh:issador Rev. Thoin;is J. O'Donnell. '41; Honorary President William K Cotter, Jr., '41; Club Vice-President James H. Shells, "S:i, and GUiss \'ice-Preside nt Joseph R. Stewart, "22. 
Huddling with the new .Alumni .Assn. presi­dent are three of five new national direc­tors at the winter meeting: (from left) Wil­liatii P. Mahoncy, Jr., "38. of Phoenix. .Ariz.; President O'Connor; Maurice Car­roll, '19. of St. Louis. Mo.; and George Connor, *48. of Chicago. Not shown: Harry .Mchrc, '22. .Atlanta. Ga.. and John Uenipsey, '49, Philadelphia, appointed to complete the term of the late Charles Rohr, '30. 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 
Honorary President JoH.N- C. O'Co.v.N-OR, '38 President J.AMES H. SHEILS, '35....Club Vice-President JOSEPH R . STEWART, '22 
Class Vice-President PAUL J. GUSHING, 'Sl-^J'und Vice-President JAMES E. AR.MSTROXG, '25 Secretary 

Directors to 19G1 
JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22 Kansas City Life Insurance Co. Sox 139 Kansas City 41, Missouri 
JoH.v P. DEMPSEY, '49* Kidder, Peabody & Co. 129 S. Broad St., Philadelphia 9, Pa. 
JAMES H . SHEILS, '35 McManus and Walker 39 Broadway, New York, New York 
JOHN C. O'CO.NNOR, '38 1000 Fidelit}- Trust Bldg. Indianapolis, Indiana 

Directors to 1962 
JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 B>Tne Pl>'wood Company Royal Oak, Michigan 
PAUL J. CUSHING, '31 Hydraulic Dredging Co., Ltd. 14th & Broadway, Oakland, Calif. 
WALTER FLEMING, JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O.
 BO.V 1291, Dallas, Texas 

W.
 EDMU.VD SHEA, '23 Third National Building Dayton 2, Ohio 


Directors to 1963 
MAURICE J. CARROLL, '19 4944 Lindell Blvd., St. Louis 8, Missouri 
GEORGE L. CO.NXOR, '48 209 S. LaSalle St., Room 716 Chicago 4. III. 
WILLIAM P. MAHO.NEY, JR., '38 Suite 1, Luhrs Tower, Phoeni.\, .•\rizona 
HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 72 Eleventh St., N.E., Suite 12 Atlanta 9, Ga. 


Chairmen of tlie 1960 Committees 
J. C. O'CoxxoR Executive 
J. H. SHEILS Club Activities 
J. R. STEWART Class Activities 

P. J. CUSHIXG 
Alumni Fund, Foundation and Gifts 
J. J. BYRXE Preparatory Schools 
W. L. FLEMIXG 
Placement and Job Counseling 
J. J. B^'R.XE Inter-Alumni Affairs 
J. R. SrEWART.J'restige and Public Relations 
J. H. SHEILS Religion and Citizenship 
J. R. STEWART AXD 
J. H. SHEILS.. dominations 
W. E. SHEA Budget and Finance 
W. E. SHEA. Resolutions 
*
 .Appointed to fill the une.\plred term of Charles 

E.
 Rolir, '30, deceased. 


This magazine is published bi-monthly by the Univeisity of Notre Dame, Notr« Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. I, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

LIBRARY APPEAL TCf 
The old University Library, completed in 1917, is still an imposing structure, but — 
In tlie months ahead you will hear detailed plans for the new Notre Dame Librar)'. 
This is a background storj', predi­cated on the listing of the proposed Librar)' in the new Ten-Year Program, and on Fatlier Hesburgh's announce­ment in December that construction can no longer be put off. Here are the basic factors at present: 
1.
 The new Libraiy is an urgent need. 

2.
 It will cost a minimum of $6,000,000. 

3.
 It will probably house a mini­mum of 1,500,000 volumes. 

4.
 It will in all likelihood provide study space for more than 2,000 


In Memoriam 
JOSEPH MARTIN BOLAND, '27 
The officers and directors of the Alumni Association join the Uni­versity in expressing shock and sor­row at the loss, on February 26, of Joseph M. Boland, better known to thousands of Americans, young and old, as "Joe." Truly "the voice of Notre Dame" to countless sports en­thusiasts, he was described by his classmate, columnist Walter W. Smith, as the most competent sports broadcaster in the business. More important, he was a line citizen, a great Christian gentleman, a true Notre Dame man and with the late Jack Lavelle, '28, among the Uni­versity's outstanding ambassadors to the nation. To his family, profound sympathy and a pledge of continued prayer. 
students at one time. 
5.
 It will increase facilities for faculty and graduate research. 

6.
 The President of the University has appointed a Faculty Plan-M ning gioup under his academic assistant. Rev. Philip Moore, CS.C. 

7.
 The Universit)' has employed an architect who is studying the project. 



The present University Librar)' wa ^ dedicated in 1917, when college enroll­ment at Notre Dame was 1,207. At that time the University had no grad­uate school. It listed under 40,000 books. 
The new Library, then, actually pro­vided a long-range capacity of a little over 400,000 volumes (contemporary estimates were optimistically higher)^ It provided study space for more thai ^ a fourth of the student body. 
Now, the University lists over 380,­000 books in the Main Libraiy and 537,000 all told. Its enrollment is just under 6300. Its graduate school enrolls some 700 students in both study and re­search. Its residence halls house over 4000 undergraduate students in in ^ creasingly demanding curricula which dictate ever increasing facilities for material and concentration. 
For forty years the intellectual life of the University has progressed through the vision and generous pro­vision of men like Father John A. Zahm, CS.C, and Rev. John \V. Ca\'# anaugh, C.S.C, under whose leader-"^ ship the present Library was con­stnicted. 
In the light of the challenges and the opportunities which face Notre 



SPEARHEAD UNIVERSITY PROGRAM 
Early Announcement Launches First and Most Urgent Building Project of $66 Million, 10-Year Plan— 
• Neiu Library of Which All Alumni Can Be Proud 
i Dame today and in the years before ^Sj University leadership would be less "arsighted and less prudent than its ; predecessors if it did not recognize the i urgent and key part that a new and 
• adequate Library must play in Notre Dame's progress. Father Hesburgh, Father Joyce, Fa­
ther Moore, Librarian Victor Schaefer, ; and others, have been visiting other -college and university libraries, and 
"isting the facilities which a new Libraiy at Notre Dame must encom­
•
 pass. . Father Hcsburgh's decision to an­nounce the project and intensify all our efTorts stems from his conviction that 

•
 further delay will only interfere with 


the total advancement of Notre Dame education. w In his announcement. Father Hes­
. burgh offered to spearhead the effort to secure at least three million dollars from special sources if Notre Dame 
.alumni would double their own gener­ious efforts and secure a like amount. j With six million dollars, he announced, 
•the building of the New Library' \vi\\ begin within a year. 
Father Hesburgh expressed the hope that the alumni quota might be assured within a maximum period of three years—a million dollars each year. 
You know from the fine record of our Alumni Fund that Notre Dame men have made total contributions of over a half million dollars each year for the last ten years. 
You also know that this generous amount has come from only one-half our alumni membership. 
You know that the number of larger gifts has been increasing. But you also know that the great majority of alumni contributions still remain under $25 a year. 
^Ve have said, and we repeat now, that the necessarily small gift is a deep­ly appreciated gift and has great in­herent value apart from its amount. 
But we bring up the present pattern because past performance and the proven generosity of Notre Dame alumni indicate that this giant step forward is definitely attainable. 
No other building, no other purpose, 

no other tie, is as universal for alumni 
as is the Library. 
The Library is to the intellectual life 
of the University what the Church is 
to its spiritual life and the Stadium to 
our athletic traditions. 
If we meet with the enthusiasm and the understanding and the effort and the generosity we anticipate, the pro­ject \vill succeed outstandingly. 
It will call for a much higher per­centage of alumni participation—^we're aiming at 100%! 
It will call for an annual average gift substantially above the present figure of $56. 
But these goals are attainable here, as they have been attained elsewhere! 
We will use all the familiar means of acquainting you with the story and enlisting your help—direct mail, the ALUMNUS, NOTRE DAME, the Clubs, the Classes, and most of all per­sonal solicitation. We will need many more of you to enlist in carrying this. story personally to the increased num­bers who must respond, and for the in­creased gifts they must give. ' 
There will be memorial oppprtimities of an outstanding nature and variety for individuals, for Clubs, for Classes, for disciples of the many great men whose names are linked in the history of the Library at Notre Dame. 
This will be the Story for 1960, 1961 and 1962 for Notre Dame men every-; where. We feel confident of the happy ending. 
But this is the beginning—^"Once 
Its reading rooms were operating at capacity in this picture taken twenty years ago. ufjon a time " 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, I960 
But this was the Librarj' that "ac­

from your 

commodated 100 students in each of its 


Sditorial Comment 
Alumni Secretary spacious wings," the Library tliat Paul 
I want to talk to you about tlie new Library. 
At last; I am an authorit)'! In 1917, 
when Notre Dame was obseiATng its 
Diamond Jubilee, 
the Aunt with 
whom I lived in 
Niles was an ardent 
fan.of James Car­
dinal Gibbons. So 
a somewhat disin­
terested high school 
sophomore came 
with her to Notre 
J. E. Armstrong 
Dame to see Car­dinal Gibbons and the array of digni­taries who provided the "spectacular" of our history to that date. That was when the present Librarj' was dedi­cated, a sparkling limestone commit­ment to the growing intellectual excel­lence of Notre Dame. 
In the fall of 1921, when that Li­brary' was still new, I entered Notre Dame as a freshman journalist, and be­gan long and memorable hours in the basement of the Librarj', which was tlie journalism classroom. 
As a day-dog from Niles, I had no place else to go—^thank God—and in the hours out of class I was exposed to many bonus hours with a great scholar and a true gentleman. Doctor John M. Cooney, head of the journalism depart­ment. 
Because in those days after World ^Va^ I space was also at a premiiun, and enrollment bursting at the seams witli 1500 students, the large basement rooms of the Librarj' brought me economics under Father William Bol­ger and history' under Father Bill Mc­Namara. Out the windows I watched the Log Chapel wedding parties, most­ly alumni. 
I remember Father Paul Foik, the first librarian, sitting with his cigar like a Holy Cross Buddha on the steps of the Library'. I remember him happily, because he was a friend of Professor Cooney, and because his nephew Ted Bullard was a day-dog like me, and I came well recommended. 
I remember the impeccable successor to Father Foik, Father Laurence Broug­hal, as disturbed by detail as Father Foik had been unmoved by it. Look­ing back, I suspect it was the combina­tion of their talents that provided the 
4 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 
scholarly and orderly development that 
followed. 
I remember the first issue of the ALUMNUS I edited, Januar>', 1926, because it contained a feature storj' on the expanding Wightman Art Galleries, which were a vital and heralded part of tlie Librarj'. They rounded out an impressive center of learning that gave the entire campus the confidence of culture. 
I remember the gentle and scholarly Paul R. BjTne, who retired in 1958. He succeeded Father Broughal as Li­brarian and as curator of the Universit)' Art Galleries. When he was succeeded as Librarian by Victor Schaefer, the present Librarian, Paul remained as curator of the new Art Galleries in O'Shaughness}' Hall until his retire-' ment. He was not the first lay Li­brarian. One of Notre Dame's legends is Professor James "Jimmy" Edwards, who, for fifty years after the death of Fatlier Lemonnier, served as director of tlie Notre Dame Library, and was one of the great collectors of Church his­tory in the U.S. 

Byrne watched grow from 39,000 books in 1922 to more than ten times that number at present—a number overtax­ing now the farthest horizon envisioned by Father Zahm and the other planneiW who produced the imposing 1917 build­ing. 
Now there are 6200 students, many of them in a graduate school which did not even e.xist in 1917, all of them driven by the competition of minds to a more intensive use of librar)' facilities. The fraternity of the residence halta is an asset in itself, a hability to con­centration for individual study, arguing urgently for facilities for "ten times as many students" to use the ten times as many books. 
These are reminiscences sparked by the ne\vs of the imminence of the new Librar)'. Details and statistics will come to you soon, urging your interest an i support. 
Nothing Notre Dame has projected has a deeper interest for me. I hope that all of you, in some way, remember what the Library has meant in the past. Then we can count on your support to ensure its essential part in Notre Dame's future. 
Class Secretaries, New Alumni Board 
A new decade dawned with several new challenges to a newly constituted Alumni Board, new national officers and a Class Secretaries body newly resolved to ser\*e the men of Notre Dame. 
The new directors, as announced in a bulletin last issue, arc Maurice Carroll, '19, St. Louis, Mo.; George Connor, '48, Chi­cago, 111.; William P. Mahoney, Jr., '38, Phoenix, .Ariz.; and Harry Mehre, '22, At­lanta, Ga. All but Mehre were on hand for installation at the winter meeting be­ginning January 14, along with Phila­delphia's John Dcmpsey, '49, constitution­ally appointed to serve the last year of the term \-acated by the death of Charles Rohr, '30. Narrowly outdistanced were Raymond 
A. Gciger, '32, Lewiston, Mo., manufacturer and editor of the Farmers Almanac; Rodger Huter, '40, Louis\'ille, Ky., industrialist; Raymond T. Miller, Jr., '51, of Cleveland, Ohio, state senator; and Stephen W. Mul­vey, '51, New York businessman. 
.'\n early order of business was the elec­tion of the following Alumni .Assn. officers for 1960: President John C. O'Connor, '38; Club Vice-President James H. Shells, '35; Class Vice-President'Joseph R. Stewart, '22; and Fund Vice-President Paul J. Gushing, '31. Outgoing President AVilliam E. Cotter, Jr., '41, will ser\-e as honorar>' president !c^ the coming year, and James E. Armstrong '25, was re-elected executive secretary for the 34th consecutive year. 
Board business included reports of the standing committees, progress on which will be reported in future issues, but the most pressing issues were discussed jointly with the biennial Class Secretaries' Conference, which was attended by the following: Wal­ter. L. Clements, '14, South Bend; James E. Sanford. '15. Chicago, 111.; Grover F. Mille«| '16, Racine, Wis.; Charles W. Call, '187 Hasbrouck Heights, N. J.; James H. Ryan, '20, Rochester, N.Y..; Louis V. Bruggner, '23, South Bend; James R. Meehan, '24, South Bend; John P. Hurley, '25, Toledo, 
0.5 Clarence J. Ruddy, '27, Aurora, 111.; Louis F. Buckley, '27, New York City; Lawrence F. Stauder, '29, South Bend; James T. Doyle, '31, Evanston, 111.; Jamogi 
K. Collins, '32, Shaker Heights, O.; TT Edward Carey, '34, Rocky River, O.; Franklyn C. Hochreiter, '35, Baltimore, Md.; Joseph P. Quinn, Jr., '37, Andover, N.J.; Burnett C. Bauer, '38, South Bend; James N. Motschall, '39, Detroit, Mich.; James G. Brown, '40, New York City; Jam^^ 
Theme, 'The Notre Dame Family' Opens Door to Many and Varied Types of Program on This 37th Observance in N.D.'s 172 Local Alumni Clubs at Home and Abroad 
Prestige and public relations — 

The high standing which Notre Dame enjoys at present in both these Idtal fields has come, in substantial measure, from the spotlight which is annually turned on the nonathletic phases of Notre Dame through the in­creasingly fine programs of our Local 
! Alumni Clubs. 
(It seems trite, but is important, to '[ repeat that the athletic phases of Notre ^Dame are equally respected and have Contributed greatly to both these areas, , but are eminently qualified to develop 
•
 themselves through a press and public 

•
wliich have long met Notre Dame's 'i, teams more than half way.) j This year — 1960 — marks the 37tli J occasion of the universal obser\'ance of ; a tribute to the academic, cultural and Spiritual phases of the University, planned by the Alumni Association in i 1924 when the late John Neeson, '03, 


: was national president, and Alfred C. 
- Ryan, '20, was the Alumni Secretary. 
; The Alumni Board, especially tlie Committee on Prestige and Public Re­
•lations, has devoted much time to the i Nirfit. because it has become one of 
in Busy Schedule 
F. Spellman, '41, New York Cit>-; William Mark Hickey, '42, Chicago, III.; John L. |iViggins, '43, La Cresccnta, Calif.; George ^A. Bariscillo, Jr., '44, Bradley Beach, N.J.; 
Alvaro V. Lesmez, '45, Garden City, N.Y.; 
•Jack Miles, '47, South Bend; John P. \ Defant, '48, South Bend; Richard F. Hahn, ;'50, Glen Rock, N.J.; Robert J. Klingen­ibergcr, '51, Fort Wayne, Ind.; John P. 
Deasy, '56, Chicago, III.; .Arthur L. Roule, i Jr., '58, Notre Dame; and John F. Marchal, : '58 Law, Greenville, O. 
The sessions were visited by Fathers Thco-Rore M. Hesburgh, Edmund P. Joyce, John 
H. Wilson, James E. Moran, Louis J. Thornton and Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., and Survey Director John F. X. Ryan, for reports on the Administration and Notre Dame Foundation, admissions, placement, athletics, the Notre Dame Clubs and pre-Iiminar>' studies of the Alumni Self-Study Jlur^'ey, which will be reported in detail in later issues. Secretaries also discussed the ever present problems of the ALUMNUS, Class organization, etc. But the topics of 
: the greatest immediacy, upon which this abbreviated issue concentrates, were dis­cussed by both bodies. 
the great annual vehicles for bringing the tremendous progress of Notre Dame to the community level through the Clubs. 
One reason for the success of U.N.D. Night has been the growing strength, loyalty and enthusiasm of the Notre Dame family — alumni, their families, the loyal football fans, the local school people, the Catholic leaders in the com­munity who know the value of the Notre Dame men in their organizations, the corporation executives who number Notre IDame alumni among their em­ployees, the fewer but outstanding Laetare Medalists and Honorary Doc­tors whom Notre Dame has honored, coaches who have competed against 
Parents who have led the community in sending sons to Notre Dame or who have been outstanding in Notre Dame programs locally should be recognized. 
The long-time friends who have patronized Notre Dame games, who have been the backbone of the football trips, should not be forgotten on this Night. 
The Notre Dame athletes, and their local coaches, have been a colorful and distinctive part of the Notre Dame family — and while the Night theo­retically is nonathletic, certainly this family identity of our athletes is a proper and a distinctive Notre Dame asset. Here, too, we make room for our competitive coaches of the teams 



Universal Notre Dame Night"i96o 
Notre Dame, and others who find them­selves in the growing world of Notre Dame activity. 
In 1960, your Alumni Board and the Committee on Prestige and Public Re­lations proposes to dedicate the 37th observance of Universal Notre Dame Night to this Notre Dame Family. 
In addition to a deser\'ed recogni­tion of those who have made this great contribution, the broad nature of the dedication also opens the door for un­limited variety in the Local Club pro­gram. 
Some Clubs will honor outstanding local alumni. Some will honor the past Club Presidents (as many Clubs have done). 
Some Clubs \\'ill feature distinguished Laetare Medalists or Honorary LLJD.'s for their Notre Dame affiliation. 
Local educators who have done part of their graduate work at Notre Dame, or who have sent boys to the Univer­sity from local high schools through their counseling, can be spotlighted. 
Heads of corporations which have employed alumni, who send inter­viewers to the campus, who sponsor research, scholarship or fellowship pro­grams at Notre Dame, can be appro­priate guests. 
on our schedules, the heads of institu­tions with whom we have enjoyed rivalries, and the sports writing fra­ternity, who ha\'e given generously in molding so much of the great common denominator of Notre Dame spirit. 
Your speakers from the campus, where you have them or need them, will pursue this general theme, but are unusually open for individual contribu­tions to a great Universal Notre Dame Nisrht. 
A NEW SUMMER CAMP 

, The Holy Cross Fathers in the East 
announce the opening of a Camp for 
boys, ages 8 to 14, this summer of 1960. 
The name of the Camp is Camp Sebaik 
(pronounced "Sa-bay-ick") and is lo­
cated on the 'shores of Lake Sebago in 
Maine, 23 miles from the City of Port­
land. The Camp Season vtill begin on 
June 23, and end on August 20, 1960. 
The Camp Periods uill run from two 
weeks to eight weeks. Camp Sebaik will 
be staffed by Holy Cross Priests, Brothers 
and Seminarians, plus a competent Lay 
Staff. The Rates will run as follows: 
Two-week Period, $130; Four weeks, 
$300; Full Season (8 weeks), $330. 
For further information, write to: 

Rev. Joseph N. Hanna, CS.C, 833 
Clinton Avenue, Bridgeport 4, Conn. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 
Conference on Civil Rights 
A one-day conference on the recommen­dations of the Civil Rights Commission and on civil-rights measures pending in Congress was held at Notre Dame on Sun­day, February- 14, under the auspices of The Law School. The Conference was ar­ranged to provide the occasion for an ex­change of views between legislators and law teachers from Indiana and the neigh­boring states of Michigan, Illinois, Ken­tucky, Ohio and Wisconsin, and others pro­fessionally interested in the problems in­volved. 
The subjects considered were; Protecting the Right to Vote, -Assisting School De­segregation and Equal Opportunity in Housing. These topics were introduced by brief preliminarj* statements by Professors Wofford, Ward and Brodcn of the Notre Dame Law Faculty. The rest of the time was devoted to questions and comments by the participants, the discussion being led by Congressman Brademas. 
In opening the Conference, Dean O'Meara said: ".America is equal opportunity* or it is nothing: not equal opportunit>' as regards this or that, but equal opportunit)' in ever}* area of .American life. In all frankness, I do not sec how an .American could seriously challenge this proposition. We have our differences as to method and timing, but the central idea, the affirmation of equal op­portunitj- for all, is not only part of the American dream but a built-in and essential feature of the fundamental law of the land. ' That is a postulate of this Conference. We 
arc met to consider how best to bring the 
promise of the Constitution to fulfillment. 
"On this day, Sunday, a day on which 
many of us are expected to concern our­
selves in a special way with spiritual \'alues, 
and in these academic surroundings I hope 
we will be able to lay aside prejudices and 
partisan considerations, and approach this 
important subject with as much objectivit)' 
as humans are capable of. 
"I hope the Conference will contribute 
to a better understanding of the difficult 
legislative problems involved, and will be 
helpful both to law teachers and to those 
in positions of public responsibility." 
The Conference was attended by members 
of Congress from the states mentioned above. 
Governor Williams of Michigan was present 
and Governor Handlcy of Indiana was rep­
resented by his administrative assistant. The 
Commission on Civil Rights was represented 
by Father Hesburgh and Commissioner 
George H. Johnson. Also present were Mr. 
John D. Calhoun, Assistant Deputy Attorney 
General, staff counsel of the congressional 
committees having to do with civil rights 
legislation and representatives of the major 
organizations concerned with civil rights. 
Father Hesburgh addressed the Confer­ence at a luncheon in the Morris Inn. 

Labor Union Power 
.A Symposium on Labor Union Power and the Public Interest will be held at the Notre Dame Law School in -April. It will involve a critical examination of the extent of the power of labor unions and an assess­ment of the consequences of this power in terms of the public interest, followed by con­sideration of possible legislative action. -Australia's experience with compulsorj* arbi­tration and Canada's experience with the less drastic method of compulsory* concilia­tion will be examined. 

In announcing the S>*mposium, Dean O'Meara said: "It seems clear to me, as I expect it does to most people, that exces­sive power is now lodged in the great na­tional labor unions. I think it is time to look at the matter squarely and candidly and ask ourselves what should be done now that unions have over-compensated for their early weakness. This seems to mc all the more necessarj* since the United Steel Work­ers demonstrated that they are more reso­lute, if not more powerful, than the steel industry* and the United States Government combined. 
"It is our purpose to avoid, so far as pos­sible, any bias in favor cither of unions or of management. We do not feel called upon to speak for either side. What we do want to do is to focus attention upon the fact that there is a third party involved, namely, the public — the most important part>*, actually, though its interest is seldom ade­quately represented and is apt to be ignored." 
Professor Charles O. Gregory of the Uni­versity of Virginia Law School will preside, and the following have agreed to partici­pate: Professor Archibald Cox, Han-ard Law School; Professor Charles H- Liven-good, Jr., Duke University School of Law; Professor Bernard D. Meltzer, Universitj* of Chicago Law School; Professor Sylvester Pctro, New York University School of Law; Mr. Gus Tyler, International Ladies Gar­ment Workers Union, New York City, and 
The 1959-60 scholarship drive of the Notre Dame Law Association is drawing to a close and we are highly gratified by a 40% increase in the number of donors- This drive saw a 14.7% participation against 9.7% last year. While we did not equal the 25% boasted by the University of Virginia Law School, we did make substantial progress. Receipts to date are, nevertheless, below the record of $32,478.51 of last year- To those who have not yet sent in their checks I say: please do so TODAY so that we can exceed the results of last year-
One of the most rewarding aspects of the drive has been the enthusiasm and zeal of the area chairmen throughout the country- To each of them and to all who contributed, on behalf of the Association, my grateful appreciation! 
.Albert H- Monacclli 
President, Notre Dame Law Association 

Professor David McCord Wright, McGill University, Montreal, Canada. 9 
Moot Court 

The final argument in the Annual Moot Court Competition was held on October 17, 1959. The Court which sat on that occa­sion was composed of: Justice Harold H. Burton of the Supreme Court of the United States; Judge .Alfred P. Murrah of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, and Judge Paul C. Weick of the United States Court of Appeals foi 9 the Sixth Circuit 
The students who presented arguments before these distinguished jurists were: Mr. William B. F. Custer, Fredonia, New York; Mr. Don R. Gardner, Cincinnati, Ohio; Mr. Paul H. Titus, Bradford, Pa., and Mr. Lawrence D. Wichmann, Erlanger, Ky. 
Mr. Titus was adjudged the winner. He and Mr. Wichmann represented the School in the Regional Competition in Chicago^ where they lost by one percentage point. 9 
Judge Desmond 

Honorable Charles S. Desmond, Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals and a member of the Law Advisory Council, has been designated one of Buffalo's 10 Out­standing Citizens by the Buffalo Evening News. Congratulations! 
New Judges # ! 

William B. Lawless, Jr., '44L, of Buffalo, was elected to the New York Supreme Court in November, and William J. Nye, '55L, was elected Cit>* Court Judge in Elk-^ hart, Indiana. More recently, John F. S Marchal, '58L, of Greenville, Ohio, was ap-| pointed County Court Judge by Governor DiSalle. 
Gray's Inn 

Detroit Police Commissioner Herbert W. Hart, '31, visited Notre Dame as the guest of The Law School in December. He ad­dressed a meeting of Gray's Inn on "The Problem of Extra-Legal Arrest." _ 
6 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, I960 


Faculty Notes 

.' Professor RoUison has been invited to 
address the members of the Bar in the five ; counties of Western New York in May. He I will discuss estate planning. 
* Professor Wagner is on leave of absence. ; He has a Fulbright Lectureship and is ^spending the year at the University of .Pari s and other European universities. j Professor Ward was a delegate to the 
National Conference on Judicial Selection 1 and Court .Administration in Chicago in I November. 
; Professor WofTord was one of the partici­l pants in a civil rights seminar at the Uni­: vcrsity of Buffalo in December. Senator ^ Javits presided and the participants includ­
•^cd, besides Professor Wofford, Chief Judge wDesraond of the New York Court of Ap­, peals, a member of the Law .-Vdvisor}' i Council, and Judge William B. Lawless, Jr., . '44L. 
'; Dean O'Mcara delivered a public lecture '; at the Yale Law School in February". His ,; subject was "Natural Law and Evcr\-day u Law." He has been appointed one of the "^ .-Vmcrican delegates to the Conference of [ British, Canadian and .American law teach­]^ers in New York nc.\t September. 
f Report from the Armed Services 
i The following is quoted from a letter from I Edward F. Brodcrick, Jr., '56L, who, upon I completing his tour of duty, recently en­; tered practice with his father in Morris­! town. New Jersey: 
"Notre Dame lawj'crs who have chosen 

the .*\ir Force Judge .Advocate Department j^ s a full time career are Mark Tolle, '55L, ^) f Dallas, and Vince Raymond, '55L, of i Detroit. Carl Eck, '56L, has extended his 
two-year term for an extra year. Bill Fagan, I Joe Gallagher, Otto Hilbert, Pat Foley, Joe i Gormley, Jack Roberts and myself, all of ; the 1956 class, have ser\*cd three-year terms i with the Air Force J.AG Department. John 
Strickroot, Vernon Teofan, '57L, Ed Lewis, i Dave Wilson, '57L, are former Notre Dame J law students who arc in Army and Air ^^orce J.AG jobs. Jack Callahan, '59L, was " n our fall JAG School for new militarj­1 law\'ers in October." 

Appointed 

Robert H. Michand, '51L, has been ap­pointed Counsel for the Bendi.x Missile Sec­tion of Bendi.x A\nation Corporation, with headquarters in Mishawaka, Indiana. 
Following is a paragraph from a let­ter from a. 1939 graduate: 
"Review courses are fine, but it soon becomes apparent that the bar examination is passed on your legal education prior to the review course. 394 candidates took the examination, 

[P and no one was as adequately pre­pared as the five from Notre Dame. There is no comparison between our legal education and what they re­ceived at their respective schools. The difTcrenccs were amazing." 



MAN AND THE MOMENT 
by Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
The importance of the alumni and the alumni clubs in higher education and in the destiny of a university can­not be overrated. The late Chancel­lor Samuel Copen of Buffalo said: "In the long run the alumni of Ameri­can universities are responsible for what each institution be­comes. They con­
Father O'Donnell 
stitute the domi­nant group of citizens. .. . As such, they hold the ultimate destinies of the universities in their hands." Another university leader phrased it this way: "The ultimate continuing strength of a university rests with its alumni. . . . They are the keepers of the tradition, preferred stockholders of the enter­prise, the mark of its accomplishment." It is good for us, as Notre Dame alumni, to pause in our busy lives and reflect on what it means to be alumni from the campus of Our Lady. It is good for us as alumni to consider our piivileges, our obligations and our op­portunities. 
The privileges that are ours as alumni: 
(a)
 The learning we acquired. This may not be as much as we would like, but the fault could be ours that it is not more. Certainly the school had a good faculty. They made us work whether we liked it or not. It was a dedicated faculty and they knew what was best for us. It is a privilege to have knowledge, to have had a chance to stand on tiptoe and reach for learning. 

(b)
 Spiritual growth. To know how to make a living is important, but it is also important to know how to live well. The habit of prayer and the faith that is ours are privileges. 

(c)
 Friendship. There is no need to dwell on this. Many memories arc delicately wrapped in our col­lege days. We carrj' these with us. The mention of a town brings back a smile and a story. A privilege in­deed to have had and to have such friends. 


(d) Prestige. The name of Notre Dame adds to our stature in btisi­ness and in social life. We are not Just "grads" from any old college... we are Notre Dame men. 

These are but a few of the privi­leges that are ours. You can meditate on others that I have not mentioned. But as you do so, do not lull yourself to sleep in a cozy sense of well-being. A privilege implies an obligation that almost flows from the privilege. The obligations that follow: 
(a)
 To continue our learning. This is a vast field that is getting more and more attention. Some call it Great Books; others refer to it as Adult Edu­cation. No matter what the tide, the fact is that our education and learning should be coextensive with life. We will talk of this at greater length an­other time. 

(b)
 Spiritual growth. In a brilliant world where laughter rings out and heartbreaks are inaudible, others look to us so that they might believe. AVhether we are Catholic or not, we have the obligation to be unafraid to practice our faith. 

(c)
 Friendship. As members of the Notre Dame family we owe to the household. It is not enough, as a true son, to eat, to read, to run. A house needs care. A family needs care. As children of the campus we owe more than chummy palaver and idle words. This is another point we %vill develop at length at another time. 

(d)
 Prestige. Just as the name of Notre Dame helps us we must help the name of Notre Dame. We have an obligation to better ourselves. By do­ing so we affect others' judgment of the campus. - It' is very important to a waiting world to wonder about Notre Dame. We have the obligation to add to the name of Notre Dame, to add to her position as a great place of learn­ing. 


I have mentioned only a few of our privileges and obligations as men of Notre Dame. It is easy to make full use of the privileges. It takes courage and strength to live up to the obliga­tions. But the joy of living and the fullness of living — these are ours as men of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 
\a. 
^ t:i ti 

UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME COMMUNION SUNDAY 
Twenty-second Obscn-ance on December 6 Set a New High in 
Number of Clubs and in Serious Approach to Theme, "The 
First Amendment" 
The January meeting of the Alumni Board ^vas featured by an expression of commenda­tion to the Local Alumni Clubs from the Religion and Citizenship Committee for the wide­spread and effective manner in which Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday (Dec. 6) was built this year around the genera! theme of "The First .•Amendment," a timely and sig­nificant factor in consideration of the relationship between religion and citizenship in the United States. 
You will recall that this custom was begun in New York Cit)- in 1938, on the Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, Patroness of the United States, to develop a closer understanding of the religious roots of our government. It was quickly adopted by the Board as a universal program of merit. Your study of the Club reports will indicate some of the great developments in its obsen-ance, and will document the Board's decision to con­tinue to urge a central theme for the 1960 U.N.D. Communion Sunday, Dec. 11. The theme mil be selected at or before the June meeting of the Board and the Clubs informed. 

Alabama 
TIic Notre Dame Club oC Alabama, takes pride in the fact lliat a distinguished member and last year's N. D. Communion Breakfast speaker. Father BRLAX EGAN, O.S.B., M-as selected as one of Ala­bama's ''Outstanding Young Men" and a candidate for national honors by the Alabama Junior Cham­ber of Commerce. Father Brian, president of Cull­man's St. Bernard's College, is the first priest to gain this kind of recognition in the South. One of the reasons for tlie aivard \\-as St. Bernard's pre­dominantly Baptist enrollment. 

Atlanta 
Congratulations to Atlanta's own HARRY MEHRE, '22, on his recent election to tlic national Alumni Board of Directors. Keep tuned to local clianncls for announcement of the stellar lineup for Atlanta's sixth annual Universal N. D. Night. 

Baltimore 
Whh a Xo'rc Datnc Communion Breakfast and otlicr alTairs u-idcr its belt, the Baltimore Club is Tlow pointing toA-ard U.K.D. Kiglu. Secretary "Bul­let" BOB WILLI/VMS has not di\-ulged the details at this time, but President CHxVRLES NORTON' and the committee tvill doubtless announce tlicm at home. 


Boston 

TTie announcement of not one but three Cardinal Gushing Scliolarships to Xotrc Dame-, , the pro­claiming of a truly **eminent" honorarv- alumnus, RICHARD aVRDINAL CUSHING (LL.D. M8), as Boston's X. D, Man of the Year. . . a serious ap­peal by the Cardinal for Notre Dame men to "be active for the preservation of this nation under God in these critical times" of space axploratlon and cold ^^'ar. • . tliesc were highlights of the 22nd an­nual Notre Dame Communion Sunday as observed by the Notre Dame Club of Boston. Chairman TIM TOOMEY, '30, described it thus: 
"There were more than 200 alumni and guests at the Mass in Holy Ghost Chapel and breakfast in the auditorium of the Paulist Information Center. . . . WILLIAM E. DACEY, H9. . . announced the naming of the Boston Club scliolarship In honor of llie Cardinal. .. . His Eminence was presented to the audience by myself . . . designated as Man of the Year. . . . TJic citation lauded him as a champion of peace, educator, and a prince. . . who brought great honor to Notre Dame. . . . Tlic Cardinal also received an N. D. monogram blanket. 
"The serious side of tlie Cardinal's talk was rc­lated by the press. On the lighter side, he told the audience he ne\*er received a formal college degree. 
- . . He recalled his visits to Notre Bamc with great pleasure and spoke afFectlonately of his ad­miration for JOHN CARDINAL 0*HAR.A who was appointed to the College of Cardinals at the same time Cardinal Gushing was. clex-atcd in December, 1958. . . . 

"Tlic announcement of two additional scliolar­ships (donated) by the Cardinal was warmly ap­plauded. . . . Father EDMUND JOYCE, rcprc­scnu'ng Father HESBURGH, thanked Cardinal Cashing for his generosity and. . . gave a brief talk on present plans for expansion. . . at the University. 
"Tlic servers at tlie Mass were Peter Marr, son of HARRY MARR, '37, and William F. O'Brien, Jr., son ot BILL O'BRIEN, *44. Assisting mc in arrangements uere CHARLES PATTERSON, '44, and BILL DACEY, '49. . . .Cardinal Gushing presented President Dacey and m\-self with copies of a limited edition publication of the highlights in print and picture ot his priestly career. . . a gift of the Armenian people following bis investi­ture. . . and to me an autographed photograph., . 
"TIic Cardinal assisted MSGR. CORNELIUS DONOViVN, '09, at Mass by distributing the Bles­sed Sacrament to the congregation. 
"We were the recipients of many compliments wlilcli yve humbly and gratefully accepted on behalf of the President. . . . Most of them seem to ex­press the thought that this was the finest affair c\er sponsored by tlic Notre Dame Club of Boston. 
"I am deeply appreciative to Fathers Hesburgh and J oyce. . . and to JIAI ARMSTRONG, ^vho Is always eager to assist and adrise." 
BILL O'BRIEN conducted a fiampaign for the 

N. D. Foxmdation in December, and on Feb. 19 the Club held the annual smoker at the Cambridge Boat Club featuring \-arious sports films and many prominent athletic figures. All proceeds went to tlic Cardinal Gushing Scholarship Fund. Treasurer DOUG ROBERTSON, '55, \%-a5 diairman. 

Buffalo 
The Buffalo Club has an honor roll of 25 men who have attended every monthly meeting of tlie past year but two. Tlitse men arc the backbone of tlic Club. Besides their attendance at the regu­lar monthly meetings they arc the ones who sup­port the Club functions that have Notre Dame and this Club the leaders in the area. 
The Club's Christmas Dance was one of the fea­tures of the holiday season in Buffalo. . . thanks to the Alimi-wives. . . Tlic men from the Club on campus. . . and the leaders: Chairman DON MA­HONEY- . . bis sturdy assodates NL\TT DUG­

THE PROMPTER'S BOX 
INVESTMENT CLUB 
Ever think of taking a plunge in the stock market? You can, at least in a small •way. with some tips from a reputable broker and enough inter­ested N.D. Clubbers (with pocket change) to form an investment club. Jack Dempsey, '49, of the investment firm of Kidder, Peabody & Co., has begun such a club among Philadel­phia Club members, according to their newsletter. The Pennant Jack, now pinch-hititng on the Alumni Board, is not only educating Philly investors in the difference between bulls and bears, blue chips and fly-by-nights, but picking them up some mad money to boot. 
NEW MEMBERS AHE NEWS 
The Indianapolis Club and ethers publish the Alumni Office notices on N.D. men moving into their area so that classmates and enterprising members can personally welcome them into the Club. This is supple­mental to the annual welcoming of newly graduated members. Incident­ally, several Clubs now have regu­larly scheduled newsletters through the use of various inexpensive du­plicating processes. In general, they are brightly edited and offer spot news, promotion and information service that the quarterly Club News section in the ALUMNUS cannot pos­sibly provide. 

G\S, JINt aVSEY, ct al. . . Most everjonc of the 114 dues pa>-ing members for the year 1959 were.^ in attendance. ^ } 
The Buffalo Club was honored in having Father 

0*DOXNELL as their guest for the Family Com­
munion Breakfast more than 180 attended, and all 
had tlic pleasure of personally meeting Father O'Don­
nell. . . The leaders included JACK ENDERS, 
chairman. . . his stnrdv associates HENRY BAL­
LING, MAURY QUINN. . . FR.ANK GAGLIONE, 
etc. 
The Club presented three trophies in the name 

of Kotrc Dame for football supremacy- in ^Vestcrn 
K. Y.: one to St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute; one to Cardinal Mindzenty in the high school division and one to Sts. Peter and Paul (Hamburg, X.Y.) ^ in the grammar sdiool division. Tlie trophies wcrt^^ provided through the generosity of Mr. and Mrs. FR,\NK REPPENHAGEN, JR., in honor of their son FRy\NK REPPEXH.\GEN III and BERNARD REPPENHAGEN, '39. JOE RYAN, '39, and FRANK NOVAK, '39, administered the program. President HENRY BALLING made the presenta­tion. 
At the January meeting President Balling ex­pressed the feelings of the entire Club membership in thanking Club Chaplain Father F. BARiVTTO for the inspiring Christmas letter that he sent to all members. MSGR. GRfVNT was the guest speak­er at the January meeting and outlined the hop&^^ of the diocese in the building of the new* area seminary. In the name of the Club a clieck v\-as pre­sented to Msgr. Grant for tills seminary. 
iL\URY QUINN, *37, chairman of the week-end retreat at St. Columban's, Derby, N.Y., announced that there is a good possibilitv of having Father GAVANAUGH, C.S.C., as retreat master this year. Chairman Quinn hopes to have advance reservations for 82 Notre Dame men and their friends for this week-end retreat. 
Some of the men who liave declared thcmsclvc^^ interested in the run for the Board of Director^' arc: JACK LAVIGNE, '49; PAT NEVILLE, '52; ROBERT ^^'EBER, '49; JIM CASEY, '44; DICK WAGNER, '53; JIM DONOGHUE, '48; PAUL Q\RROLL, '48, and JOHN McMAHON, '55. The newly-elected tncn plus tlie old war horse carry­overs have dedicated the year 1960 to this their theme. . . "Tlie University of Notre Dame—the greatest for Leadership Training." The Board ant^^ 
8 NotT€ Dame Alumnus^ March^ 1960 
ihc Biiffalo Cliib hope to bring lo everyone's atten­tion in the area that leadership is Notre Dame's greatest product. . . 
P. S.: All men in the area who plan to return to the campus for the Reunions arc asked to contact the club secretary for consolidating transportation. 
—DON JACOBI, '35, Secy. 

Chicago 
^k This year's Chicago Club Scliolarshtp Fund party ^too k a new and unique form. The Club welcomed \ the X. D. University Tlicatcr into Chicago for their I production of "Tiger at the Gates" by Jean Girau­i doux, translated by Christopher Fry, Feb. 22 at the 
Eightli St. Theater. The ncu' Women's Auxi!iar>', I led by Mnj. THONLVS W. SEXTON, president, and ; Mi5. CYRUS F. FRIEDHELXf, vice prcsidcnt-bene­; fit cliairman, handled all arrangements. \ Other officers of the Ausiliary are Mrs. PHILIP 
J. FACCENDA, corresponding secretary; Mrs. 
•
 FR^VNCIS J. MILLIGAN, JR., recording sccrctar>-, and Mrs. H. GILBERT SEf\Mz\N, treasurer. The 

• 
founding committee included Mrs. CHARLES F. HICKMAN, Mrs. RAYMOND W. DURST, Mrs. TERRENCE J. DILLON, Mre. NEIL C. HUR­LEY, JR., and Mrs. JOHN J. O'SHAUGHNESSY. They organized at Mrs. O'Saughncssy's home Dec. 3. 


On Sunday, Dec. 6, approximately 200 members, wiv« and friends attended the 1959 N. D. Com­munion Breakfast in the Grand Ballroom of the Sheraton-Blacks tone after Mass and Communion at old St. Ma^^•'s Church. REV. CHARLES E. SHEEDY, deau of the College of Arts and Letters at the University, delivered the address and pre­\newed Notre Dame's plans for a new Library, the most ambitious project ever undertaken. 
^ ^ TOM BROGAN and the membership committee IVIiavc been busy compiling a ncu' director^*, while 
• JIM JENNINGS* prep school committee and tlic intcr\'icw committee under ED FOX have made many visits and contacts. 
Calumet Region 
Tiie Calumet Club kept the Christmas budge: in mind in planning the annual Christmas Dinner-Dance on Dec. 29, providing dining and dancing for onlv §10 per couple. Chairman DAVID OGREN was assisted by THO.MAS CLIFFORD and CHUCK PUNTILLO in arranging the affair at 
AjTcibcl's Restaurant, Scherer\*illc, Ind. 
^ Plans for Universal Notre Dame Night continue apace with the 1960 theme — "Tlic Notre Dame Family." 
Central New Jersey 
Tlie Central Jersey Club met at the Park Hotel in Plainfield in November to elect officers for the coming year. President DAN GIL\CE, '51; TON'Y GUIFFRE, '32, and JOHN RE.\GER, '29, serving as llitt nominating committee, presented the slate of officers to the membership. Elected for 1960 were JOE SEPKOSKI, '50, president; ED SADOWSKI, 
^51, vice president; WALT IwWANAUGH, '55, treasurer, and BILL RICHARDSON, '55, secretary. Serving on the Board of Directors will be JACK DOYLE, '38; TONY GUIFFRE, '32; DAN GR.\CE, '51, and JOE SIMO.XS, '44. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, diairmanned by JOHN RE^VGER, was celebrated at St. Mar>-'s Churcli, Plainficld, at the 8 o'clock Mass on December 13. A breakfast followed at the Park Hotel. John, who served as toastmaster, introduced JUDGE HENRY CLEMENT, '28, the principal speaker. The affair, the first for the Club, was attended by forty alumni, their sons and "riends. 
# —J. J. SEPKOSKI, Retiring Scc>-. 
Cincinnati 
Tlierc have been two main events in the last quarter for tite Club here in Cincinnati. 
We held a Communion Sunday, December 6th at Our Lady of Cincinnati College. Msgr. Carl J. Ryan, superintendent of schools in the .'\rclidiocesc of Cincinnati, spoke on "Catholic Education." Wc 
^lia d a turnout of close to a hundred, which was far 
^^n d awav the best ever for this affair mainly due 
; to the cllorts of JOHN McCORMICK, '40, who I was chairman. Our other event was the "Scliolarship Ball" on New Year's Eve. The cliaimian of this gala event was JACK FAVRET, '49, llic reservations cliairman was FR^\NK JOHNSON, '50, and the Patrons Chaiiman was TOM GROTE, '50. Tlic dance was .a. success as usual with an even greater attendance 
Athaa last year. 
BOSTON—Glub*s announcement of a $4,000 scholarship in honor of Richard flanlmal Gushing (LL.D. MB), guest of honor for Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, was topped by his announcement of sponsoring two matching scholarships. Breakfast principals included: (I. to r.) Club President William £. Daccy, Jr., '49; Chaplain Rt. Rev. Cornelius Donovan, '09; Chairman Tim Toomey, '30; Cardinal Cushing, who spoke on Catholic citizenship and was honored as Boston^s N.D. Man of the Year; Rev. Edmund P. Joyc^ C.S.C., '37, Notre Dame's executive vice-president, and Rev. Richard H. Sullivan, C.S,C., president of Stonehill College. 
Our planning now is centered on Universal Notre Dame Night. .A chairman for that affair, which will be held sometime late in April, will be ap­pointed at the next meeting. 
—BARRY SAVAGE, '54, Secy. 

Cleveland 
Cleveland events since the December 6 Com­munion Breakfast with former Law Dean CLAR­ENCE MANION, included the Christmas Dance at the Slatler-Hilton on Dec. 29, a meeting on Feb. 22 with an interesting talk on 1960 business pros­pects, and a retreat March 4-B at St. Stanislaus Retreat House, Parma, O. 
Connecticut Valley 
The following Is a brief summary- of the two most recent gatherings of the Notre Dame Club of the Connecticut Valley. 
A "Freshman SendofT Dinner," Sept. 10, 1959, In Hartford, was attended by alumni, incoming fresh­men and fathers. A Notre Dame movie was shown. LE N KILLVN , '52, was in cliargc of arrangements. 
Our annual N. D. Communion Breakfast was held Dec. 13, 1959, in the Hartford Room of the Stat-Icr-Hilton Hotel in Hartford. Guest speaker, in the traditional religion-citizenship pattern, was Emilio Q. Daddario, U. S. Representative from Con­necticut. Tlic breakfast followed Mass and Com­munion at St. Palrick-St, Anthony Church. ROGER TREMBLfVY was in charge of arrangements. 
Officers for 1959-1960 are LOU BERGERON, '52, president; LENNY KILIAN, '52, wcc-presidcnt; ROGER TREMBL/VY, '56, secretary, and BILL WAELDNER, '43, treasurer. 
—R. C. TRE.MBLAY, Secy. 

Dallas 
President JACK SCROETER announced a Notre Dame St::^ Smoker featuring football films and a business meeting at the Italian Village on Feb. 23. 
Dayton 
Activities to date this year have included the an­nual Communion Breakfast in December which in­cluded an interesting and informative talk by Mr. Don Sharkej*, noted Marian author, on Our Lady of Bcauraing. 
At Christmas our Club joined forces with the local Women's Auxiliar>- group and sponsored a dinner-dance at one of the country' clubs. 
On January 29 the Glee Club appeared here at ^fcmorial Auditorium, and our Club sponsored a reception for them after the program at a down­town Hotel. 
Plans for the future include a spring smoker, the usual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner pro­gram and, wc hope, another golf stag. 
We have been a bit unsuccessful in Interesting the new members in town in Club activities. This has applied even more particularly to the recent graduates. Wc hope to devise some means for en­couraging the attendance of these new potential members. With a mailing list of nearly 150 names, our Club is suffering from a lack of active partici­pation. Perhaps one of the other club secretaries could forward me some' ideas or techniques that 
they have used to stimulate active interest in their Club affairs. —GEO. A. PFLAUM, JR., Secy. 
Dearborn 
The Noire Dame Stag Golf Day at Glen Oaks Country Club, whistled the summer to a close but not before LEE LA ROCQUE scored a social suc­cess for thirty alumni and friends. Par was matched or sorely threatened by such golfers as TOMifY" DORE, JERRY KELLY, JOHN LAKE. ED ARCY and PETE KERNAN. 
The fall proved to be a busy season lor the "Club." The NOTRE DAME-MICHIGAN STATE 
U. football trip, chalrmanned by DICK KING and J.ACK SCHAEFER, kicked off a memorable day that saw loyal subway alumni, like STEVE SHER­IDAN and BILL HETTEL, huddle with the old stalx^-arts JERRY GASS and JIM KING to cheer the Irish on at East Lansing. 
Tlirec general meetings, hosted by JOHN FISH SR., DICK KING and JACK COURTNEY JR., brought together many old friends and active mem­bers In E.MERY DAKOSKE, LARRY DOLAN, DON HICKS, ED SNYDER and the PREBENDA BROTHERS for a pleasant and sometimes profit­able winter evening. 
GEORGE BALL ably headed the annual Dinner-Dance which was held in the very comfortable sur­roundings — tlie JERRY WAYNO's home. A prime beef buffet followed by an evening of dancing and conversation was especially satisf^nng to all, includ­ing the DICK MILLIM.\NS, GEORGE TOBINS, JERRY SARBS, JACK FISCHERS and JACK GRIFFINS. 
TOM TUCKER u-as host for a February meeting at which business included nominations, st:^ dinner plans and progress reports on membership. Foun­dation, etc. 
—J. ^\*. BYRNE, Sccy-Treas. 

Decatur 
In December retiring President B. A. MARTY sent a check representing a I009& participation of regiJar members in the first gift to the Notre Dame Foundation from the Notre Dame Club of Decatur, 
111. December 13 was the date of the N. D. Com­munoin Breakfast, for which JtVMES UHL was chairman. 
Officers and directors for I960, who took office on Jan. 1, arc: MILTON J. BEAUDINE, president; JAMES A. UHL, %-icc president; GEORGE H. HUBBARD, treasurer; ALLAN F. LANDOLT, sec­retary; \VILLIAM T. DOWNING, three-year direc­tor; JAMES J. MORAN, JR., two-year director; EUGENE F. FORAN, JR., one-year director, and REV. ARTHUR D. LeBRETON, chaplain. 

Detroit 
Januar>- and Februaiy first Monday luncheon meetings at the Wayne Club gained impetus after the successful Communion Breakfast and Christmas Party In December. 
.\ special luncheon party was called which echoed the traditional campus observance of Washington's Birthday. Benefit of this ^Vashlngton's Birthday Party was the dwindling Scholarship Fund. An at­tractive door prize was an all-expense European tour, or a Hillman car or a cash equivalent. 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ Marchy 1960 
Fort Wayne 
The committee In cliargc of the annual Commun­ion Breakfast has arranged for an outstanding speaker for the event in the person of Rev. STAN­LEY PARRY, C.S.C, head of the political science department at the University. Among his \-aried accomplishments, Father Parr>' holds a master's de­gree from Georgetown U., Washington, D.C., and also a doctorate from Yale in political science. Father Parr>' spoke on aspects of the First Amend­ment. 
Tliis year we invited the sons of club members ivho are of high scliool age to accompany tlicir fathers to the breakfast. 
Tiie religious part of the program was held at 
the Blessed Sacrament Chapel xWth a Low Mass, 
after whicli ue proceeded to the Kccnan Hotel for 
the breakfast. 
—JOSEPH P. COLLIGAN, Chainnan 
Indianapolis 
Two events tliat our fine Indianapolis Alumni Club can be proud of this year are having Father THEODORE HESBURGH as our Communion Breakfast speaker and having our own JOHN C. O'CONNOR, a '38 classmate of Father Hesburgh, as the praident of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation. On Sunday, Dec 6, 1959, Father an­nounced to us for tlic first time publicly his plans for the nc^v Library*. On Jan. 15 O'Connor was elected by the Board of Directors to head our 27.­000-mcmbcr group. Wiile at N. D. he was presi­dent of the Senior Class and played varsity basket­ball. Our 1958 "Man of the Year" is with the law iirm of Ruckclshaus, O'Connor & Ruckclshaus. 
Our annual Football Smoker was a big success xvlth DON DOLL, KEN ADAMSON and JIM CROTTY supplying us witli info on the past sea­son. Tlic annual Christmas Formal 'was one of the best dances in recent years. 
One of the many projects our Club has under­taken this year Is to raise funds to send one high sdiool graduate to Notre Dame cadi year. Tlic present drive is being conducted by PAT FITZGER­ALD, *52. A TV set is door prize for a St. Pa­trick's Day benefit at our regular Tlmrsday luncli­eon. 
Anotlicr event will be the publication of an Alumni Membership Directory- for tliis area. NICK CONNOR, '36, is cliairman of this effort, while BILL MOONEY, JR., '57, heads the advertising committee. Featured in the booklet will be the Club history, imtten by CURLY ASH, '24, and pages that can be inserted as new members move into tlie city, keeping our directory up to date. Our last roster •was printed in 1954. 
The Universal Notre Dame Night committee looks forward to the most successful social evening In the Club's history and is now working hard on final plans, as is the "Man-of-thc-Ycar'* selection com­mittee. 
Other committees working very diligently for the benefit of the Club and University are the Job Counseling Committee, the Intcr\iciv Committee for prospective students and the Scholarship Com­mittee, %vho •will announce after May I tlic award-winning high scliDol senior. 
—BILL McGOWAN, '57, Secy. 
Kansas City 
Local alumni and families joined twenty thousand ND'ers on Universal Communion Sunday, Dec 6, in a reverent tribute to our scliool's leadership In religion and cittzenslilp. JOHN DAW and JOHN SEE co-chairmanned the program held at Pius X Scliool. The comptroller of the Kansas City Dio­cese, Father KOENIG, outlined the role of Cath­olic men in the modem world, particularly in our ciric responsibility. 
The Kansas City By-lJne Club featured FRANK LE.-VHY and JERRY GROOM at the November luncheon. Club members present—nad there were many—were pleasantly surprised to hear from an­other guest speaker. Col. George B. Simlre, Athletic Director of the Air Force Academy, of the Im­pending football game in I9&4 between the new "natural rivals." Since It was fall, football was in tlie mind and the heart of most. Tliercfore the traditional joint lunclicon with Iov\*a Alums came upon us in short order. ED and TOM REARDON, JACK FRITZLEN, ED AYLWARD, Dr. D. M. NIGRO, Father A. F. MENDE2, C.S.C, and many others celebrated the victory. JOHN MASS­MAN expressed the Club's tlianks for being invited and received a tremendous ovation (we outnum­bered our hosts) when hoping for a similar reason to return ne.\t year. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, Marchj 1960 

ST. PETERSBURG-TAMPA—The Notre Dame Club ol ihc Florida West Coast high­lighted the 1959 season with a Christmas dinner-dance at St. Petersburg's Sunset Countr^^^ Club under the guidance of (I, to r.) Charles Burke, finance chairman; Ed R. Miller, danc ^ chairman; Mark Mooney, Club president; Mrs. AI Johannes, hostess chairman; Robert S. 
Bums, Club publicity director, and Roy Decb, Club secretary-treasurer. 
Tlie high light of alumni social actlritles was the Christmas dinner-dance held in the Grand ballroom of the Hotel President. Tlirec Iiundred alumni and their guests enjoyed the most successful dance in Club liistor>'. Taking bows for a job well done are JOE VAS DYE and JOE "BUD" SHAUGHNES­SY. Also taking a bow was JACK HAYES' daugh­ter and her partner due to an excellent floor show featuring an exhibition of-ballroom dancing. 
Former President DICK BOWES, representing tlic Club on campus, recently reported that JOE KUHARICH was having trouble conforming his spring practice and travel sdicdule to the K. C. Notre Dame Night, but, Joe or no Joe, the Club can be sure of a stellar U.N.D. Night speaker. 
—G. J. "Jl.M" HIGGINS, Secy. 

Kentucky 
REV. FOREST MACKEN was the speaker at the Universal N. D. Communion supper of the No­tre Dame Club of Kentucky on Dec 8 foIlo\ring e\xning Mass at St. Pius X Churcli. Father Macken is professor of thcoIog>- canon law at the Passlonist Fathers Seminary- and clialrman of tlie adult edu­cation program at Bcllarminc College. 
La Crosse 
The new officers of the Notre Dame Club of La Crosse, Wis., are: JERRY HEBERLEIN, '50, presi­dent; STEVE PAVELA, '48, vice president; WIL­LI.\M MURPHY, '52, secretary, and BERNIE LA­MNS, *51, treasurer. Tlie Club looks forward to another gala Notre Dame Night in April. 
—STEX"^ PAVELA, Vice Prcs. 

Miami 
The 1959 Christmas Dinner-Dance was held Sat­urday, Dec 12, at the new Everglades Hotel. TTiosc in attendance wiU attest a gala afT^r with mucli good food, delightful music by Johnny Master's Or^ chestra, and an evening of Christmas spirit among friends, old and new. Orchids to Chairman JIM SMITH and wife Lois who did a splendid job on arrangements. 
It was a pleasure for Prcxi* CHARLIE MAKER to announce a generous gift to the University in the name of our Local Foundation by GEORGE COURY in the amount fo 5500.00, tills to more than cover tlic deficit of our 1959 drive goal. Thanks a million, George! 
NOTES FROM THE PARTY: ^»KE ZORO­VICH, RICK BLOMQUIST wondering \vhy they held exclusive rights to boiled shirts and white coats; BILL ^\'ELCH wondering why everyone didn't «car their red coats; PARIS CO\VART, the only person who boated through the Il-incli rain to attend the cancelled Probst Radio Party, was showing the guests the fine features of his sporty 
N. D. jacket; JIM BOYLES doing a modified Mish­au*aka version of the clia.clia; BILL NEAL, who after the community sing of the Victory March, in­sisted on a long, loud and lusty rendition of some­thing they sing at the University of Florida; the DICK SADOWSKFs specialty of a torrid polka; the RAY POPPS's mambo; FRED ZOROVICH's waltz; tlie LYLE RUSSELLS, JERRY HOLLANDS, ART BERGENS and JOHN KOTTES In a tight huddle to catcli the punch line of Annie's joke on Pat and Mike in the gravc^-ard 3-sheets-to-the-wind; AYE AYE PROBST failing to keep Mary geared to the "slow" dances; Lois Smith, Betty Zororich and Mar>' Malier locating place cards nad favors by "dead reckoning"; GEORGE COURYS doing the latest version of the Mexican Hat dance; UR-^^ B.\N KOKENGE tr\ing to con Dr. TOKER into ^ including his boat under Coast Guard sick bav cov­erage; the ANDERSONS and BOB REILLYS cut­ting the light fantastic In the club mixers; and the numerous wonderful guests and others of the Alum­ni who joined in a rousing finale of the VIctor>­March (while on campus for a few days at Morris Inn, I was privileged to witness tlie celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Victory March at ND-Gx Tcdi halftime honoring JOHN SHEA who composed tlic lyrics). 
As has been customar>' the past few years, our annual Communion Breakfast was deferred until after the first of the year, because of the Chrlstma^Aj Dinner-Dance. ^ 
On Saturday, Oct. 17, some thirty of the faith­ful braved the rain squalls to attend the annual Television Parly held at Major Appliances, courtesy of DAN ROWLANDS who had as the main fea­ture the ND-MIchlgan State game. On hand were the PROBSTS, HOLLANDS, STREETERS, BER­GENS, OULETTES, PIOWAT\'S, ROWXANDS, JOHN CASHION, ED KELLY, GEORGE COURY. RAY POPP, GEORGE KENNARD, BOB REILLY, CHARLIE MAKER, JIM SMITH, BILL WELCH, JIM AMLSON, MIKE ZOROVICH, among others and their guests. .Although Duffy's gang "wuppcd us". . . there will come another day, cousins, and ^ it won't be too soon to suit we-uiis. ^ ^ 
On Saturday, Oct. 24, a gi^up of the guys and gals were at the JIM SMITHS for a Radio Party at which we hoped to sec the Irish upset North­wsclern, and we almost well sir it was a nice party anyhoo and the PROBSTS and the DICK HOURIHANS came from way off yonder to lend their support. 
At the annual meeting held January 7 at the Everglades hotel, the following were elected to of­fice for 1960: JAMES A. SMITH, '48, president; 
W. DAN ROWLANDS, '50, 1st vice president; Dr. WILLIAM B. WELCH, '48. 2nd vice president; JAMES R. WILSON, '56, secretary, and WILLIA^ ^ 
C. STREETER, *54, treasurer. —CK/VS. E. MAKER, Retiring Pres. 
Michigan City 
The Notre Dame Club of Micliigan City, Ind., held their annual elections on the evening of Dec 2, 1959 in their usual rousing fashion. The fol­lowing slate was designated to guide the club ac­tiritics for the coming yean President, Dr. F. J. KUBIK; vice pres., W. C. ZEKNPFENNIG; secrc^ tary, R. E. MILLER; treasurer. Dr. R. L, MAR S SKE. Board of Directors, Mayor Francis G. Feddcr. 
In addition WALTER TIMM was appointed as local cliairman for the Foundation Fund. 
The new officers will have been installed at the Club's annual "Grasshopper Frolic" scheduled for Feb. 13, 1960. 
Two new members have been added to the "ac­tive" roster of the Club, LEON DARIS of Michi^ gan City, a recent graduate, and JUDGE ALBEN SMITH of LaPone. 
Prayers arc requested for tlie eternal rest of for­mer President LOUIS BLACK, whose sudden death was a shock to the Club, and sincere sympathy is tendered to his family. 
—BILL ZEHNPFENNIG, Vice Pres. 

Mid-Hudson Valley 
m In obser\"ancc of Universal Xolrc Dame Com­munion Sunday, the annual Father-Son Communion Breakfast ^^-as held on December 6. This year's theme was clarification of the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States^ together with increased participation of Notre Dame men in parocliial and civic affairs. Mass was celebrated by the Club's cliaplain. Rev. ^VNTHONY D. BOT­TI, S. J., at St. Andrc\>"s-on-Hudson Seminar^'. Breakfast followed at the Nelson House in Pough­kccpsic. JOHN J. KUHN handled tlic arrange­ments and GERRY HOWELL handled the public­ity. 
Talbols Inn was the site of tlie Christmas Dinner 

• 
meelins on December 19. Plans for a (orlhcoming theater party in New York City were discussed and color movies of the club's'1959 summer picnic were shown. For the theater party BOB ORTALE %vas selected to investigate ticket a\-ailability. TIic Christmas meeting served as a farewell party for Esther and MIKE BURKE. Mike, the Club's hard­working sccretar>', has been transferred to Bethcsda, Md., and will be a \-aluabIe asset to the Washing­ton, D.C., Club. 
—DONALD J. REYNOLDS, Pres. 

^Milwaukee 
O Rev. J/VMES DOLL, CS.C, from Lobund on campus, was an cnjoy^lc speaker for Milwaukee's ob5er\"3nce of Universal N. D. Communion Sunday on Dec. 6. Attendance at Mass, Communion and the breakfast, if not a new high, was close to It. 
—BOB SCHIRF, '39, Chairman 

New York 
Tlie Long Island Scliolarship Dance at the Sky Island Club on Nov. 13, 1939, broke all records for attendance, cnio\'nicnt and receipts. GEORGE BODEN, '32, headed the hard-working committee 
^^responsible for the large turnout. 
W JOHN BALFE, '20, is acting as liaison for the Club with the proposed Catholic College Alumni Club which is ready to lease clubrooms in the Grand Caitral area. 
Tlie Metropolitan Club Thanksgiving Dance at the Statler on Fridav, Nov. 27, 1959, was chaper­oned by JOE WURZLER, '46; ED FITZPATRICK, '54; and BILL MURPHY, '38, and their wives. tf>­gctlicr with TOM .MURPHY, '53, and his fiancee. 
The Metropolitan Club ran a party for the bo>-s ta St. ^fary's Home in Syossct on Saturday, Jan. 2, 1960. ED FtTZPATRICK, 'Si, was diairraan. The N.Y. Newsletter has already lost two of its 
^hre e editors, BOB SECKLER and JIM DUL/\N, 
^^59, to the Anned Forces. The remaining editor, GLENN YATUNI, '52, FI 8-3020, would welcome ediloriat workers and news items. 
The Long Island meeting on Wednesday, Dec. 2, 1959, at the Sky Island Club, featured MSGR. RONALD MCDONALD, who took those present behind the scenes on tlie diocesan school building program, and FR;\NK CONFORTI, '39, who cov­ered ihc subject of college scholarships, student loans and loans to parents through banks and Tlie Tuition Plan, Inc. An overflow turnout showed tliat the topic of education is of great Interest to our membership, Oldtimers at the meeting included 
• ED FALLON, '26, former New York Club Prcsi­dnct In 1935, and ED ARTHUR, '30, founder of the Cana Conferences in the Diocese of Brooklyn. The Club's new assistant secretary for the NYC Division, replacing MIKE MALL/\RDI, who moved to California, Is GLENN YATUNI, '52. GEORGE BARSA has been appointed chairman of the Club's finance committee. The committee's first job will be to prepare a Club budget for 1960. Tlie November elections brought both joy and sadness to our members. GEORGE VERGAR^X, '23, failed in his bid for reelection as mayor in 
^^c w RochcUc, WALT KENNEDY, '34, was elected mayor of Stamford, Conn. BILL SHEA, '37, was elected Municipal Court justice. He was the only Republican to win any offica In New York City. 
; JUDGE FR.\NK McCULLOUGH was reelected in Westchester County. Congratulations to BILL DONNINE, '32, current .' president of tlie Columbian Law>-crs j\ssociatlon of  Queens County. A Approximately two hundred club members and 
KANSAS CITY—^Now involved in planning for Universal Notre Dame Night in April arc the principals of last year's auspicious event (from left); John T. Massman, '56, president of the Kansas City Club; 1959 speaker Richard J. Bowes, '38, a fonncr Club president^ now area director for the N.D. Foundation; Edward Aylward, '48, immediate past president and Club Chaplain Father Schwartz. 
wives attended Mass and Communion at 11:45 a.m. 
at St. Patrick's Cathedral on December 6, Notre 
Dame Communion Sunday. A brunch followed at 
the Park Lane Hotel. The program, co-chairman­
ned by GORDON FORESTER and TONY DiB.ARI, 
«-as excellent. Speakers were HrVRVEY FOSTER, 
Special Agent In charge. New York FBI and former 
President of the National Alumni Association; 
Father ED.MUND JOYCE, Executive Vice President 
of the University; and Dr. THOMAS DOOLEY of 
Medico, an alumnus who has gained world-wide 
fame for his work in I.aos and his writings. Dr. 
Doolcy, "The Splendid Amrelcan," gave an inspir­
ing talk. Honored guest was Dr. GEORGE 
SCHUSTER, prominent educator, author and civil 
serviint, who retires this year as President of Hun­
ter College. 
Long Island's third annual Golden Anniversary 

Cocktail Dance honored ERNEST L. HAMMER, 
'04, on Feb. 28. 
U.N.D. Night will be celebrated with a dinner-dance at the Park Lane Hotel on April 23. ?f. D. sociology head JOHN ICt\NE -will represent the Uni­versity. The principal speaker will be Hon. OWEN McGIVERN of the New York Supreme Court, one of the most popular speakers In the metropolitan area. 
—AnLLIA.M V. CUDDY, Scc>-. 

North Carolina 
The Carolina Club planned a social hour to cele­brate the ND-Norlh Carolina basketball game Jan­uary 2. 
Olficcrs of the Club arc: DONALD J. KELSEY, M8, Grcensbbro, president; THONLVS M. McCOY, '55, Fayettevillc, \ice president; JOSEPH A. SAN­SONE, *44, Greensboro, secretary, and STEPHEN 
B. BERRY, '53. Greensboro, treasurer. Directors are Dr. FltVNCIS X. BERRY, '38, of Greensboro, and JOHN G. O'CONNELL, '44, fo Charlottc­
—DO.V KELSEY, Pres. 

Oklahoma City 
The new president of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Oklahoma City is Dr. AL R. DRESCHER, '38. 
—CHARLES L. MONNOT, JR., Past Pres. 

Palm Beach County 
BILL AL\DDEN, '42, the president of the Palm Bead) County Notre Dame Club made arrange­ments for a lunclicon at Taboo, Worth Ave., Palm Beach, on March 1. Wc now have approximately thirty alumni In our area and most of them will probably be present. 
Tlie officers of our Club—Notre Dame Club of Palm Beacli County, are as follows: President, AVILLLUI MADDEN, PHBC ^2, 315 Worth Ave., Palm Beach; Vice President, ERSKINE EDWARDS, AB '32, First National Bank, Palm Beach; Secy.­Treas., TIMOTHY 0*HARA, AB '55, LL.B. '56, 
Asst. County Solicitor, Palm Beach County Court 
House, West Palm Beach. 
Wc have had four meetings In the last year, the 
most recent of which was a Christmas party at 
Taboo, Palm Beach, at which the following were 
present: Mr. and Mn. DANIEL DO^VNEY, Mr. 
and Mrs. CHEATHAM HODGES, Mr. and Mrs. 
BERNARD O'HARA, Mr. and Mn. JOHN HOS­
INSKI, .Mr. and Mrs. JLM DOWNEY, Mr. and 
Mrs. JIM COONEY, Mr. and Mra. ED LEWIS, 
Mr. and Mrs. ROME HARTAL%N, Mr. and Mrs. 
JOHN CALLAN, Mr. and Mrs. BILL MADDEN, 
DENNY CLE.\RY, JOHN COLLINS, and Mr. and 
Mrs. TIM O'HARA. 
—TIM O'HARA, Secy.-Treas. 

Peoria 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, executive Wee pres­ident of the University, will be campus guest and prtnapal speaker at Universal Notre Dame Night festivities in Peoria, lU., on Monday, April 25. 

Philadelphia 
Heartiest congratulations and appredaUon to BILL ^VHITESIDE and his committee for the De­cember Communion Breakfast. The attendance, food and program were the best the Club has ex­perienced in quite a few years. Father LaBOON, S.J., u-as an excellent and Interesting speaker. 
The result of the election of officers for 1960 is as follo^vs: JOHN F. MOORHEAD re-elected president; BILL WHITESIDE re-elected vice presi­dent; JOHN P. DONOHUE was named secretary and BART JOHNSON re-elected treasurer. Elected to the Board of Directors were CHARLIE CON­LEY, B.\RT JOHNSON, JOE WHITE, GERRY voi r and GEORGE MITCHELL. 
The Philadelphia Club Directory will be out in March, prepared under the guidance of BART JOHNSON. Congratuladons to JACK DEMFSEY on his Interim appointment to the Alumni Board. Jack is organizing an investment club among alumni. 
PitfslMjrgh 
First Pittsburgh Club e\'ent of the new year was the Notre Dame Retreat at St. Paul's Retreat House Jan. 8-10. 

Rochester 
The Rochester Club's Notre Dame Commuiuoa Breakfast followed Mass at McQuoId Jesuit His^ School. JOHN CASEY, JOHN BURKE, JIM DOYL and TOM TIERNEY handled the Decem­ber 13 event. 
Social event of the year ^vas the traditional Christmas Dimier-Dance at the Univeisity Club on December 26. Chairmen ED DEMFSEY and GUS FALCONE were assisted by PHIL FINNEGAN and JOHN BURKE for this moderately-priced affair, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 11 
featuring cocktails, a roast beef dinner and dancing up to tlie wee hours. 

St. Louis 
Tlic annual Cliristmas Dance was held in the 

Khorassan Room of the Hotel Ciiasc on Dec 29, 
and the February 10 general meeting featured free 
froth and football films at the FalstafT Inn. 
Congratulations to MjVURICE CARROLL, '19, 

elected to a three-year term on the Alumni Assn. 
national board of directors. 

St. Petersburg-Tampa 
Progress—a word that justly may be labelled sy­

non>-mou5 with The Notre Dame Club of the Flor­
ida West Coast, as witnessed by its outstanding 
growth throughout the 1959 scsaon. 
From modest beginnings, the Suncoast^s alumnt 

association has jumped to a membership of some 
100 graduates and friends of Notre Dame, who 
cntliusiastically support the club's monthly acti\i­
lics and the University's Foundation Drive, ^fcm­
bers arc residents of the Tampa-St. Petersburg-
Clearwater area. 
Highlighting the season's events A\*as the assoda­

tion's second annual Christmas dinner-dance, staged 
Dec 19 at a St. Petersburg countr\* club. On hand 
for the festivities was JOE BOLAND, "TIic Voice 
Beliind Noire Dame," who announced the nation­
ally telcnscd I loliday Bowl game, played in the 
Sunshine City. 
Tliosc present payed tribute to Boland as a man 

whose efforts have contributed immeasurably to the 
greatness of their Alma Mater. Boland attended 
the 1958 Yulctidc affair also. 
Stag smokers during football season were favor­

ites on West Coasters* lists, whatever the game 
results. With all the spirit of a freshman at the 
Stadium for tlic first time, oldsters and youngsters 
alike cliecrcd their team on relentlessly. 
Club service is not to be overshadowed by the 

social scene. Members liave contributed generously 
to numerous members of the Notre Dame Family 
who arc undergoing days of need, and a sizeable 
portion of club funds is forwarded to the Founda­
tion, in addition to individual donations. 
Plans now arc underway for two association ban­

quets, both of whicli uill feature a prominent 
guest speaker, and further the universal Notre 
Dame effort. .\ June picnic and beach party also 
are planned. 
Commenting on the year's progress. President 

MARK MOONEY of Tampa said, "f am greatly 
impressed with the significant gains our organiza­
tion lias made, and with the tremendous interest 
members have shown." 
—BOB BURNS, Publ. Chairman 


San Diego 
The Annual Picnic of the Notre Dame Club of 

San Diego, Calif., was held at Lindo Park, Lake­
side, Calif., last September 27. About 80 at­
tended, with mothers and fathers outnumbered by 
the cliildren. Tlierc «*as plenty of cats and music. 
Everyone had an enjo>-ablc time. 
The Club members held their Annual Dinner-

Dance on Saturday, Nov. 28, at tlic U.S. Navy 
Officers' Club, sponsored by Lt. Col. FRED 
FOWLER, U.S.M.C.R. Fifty people enjoyed tlic 
cocktails, delicious steak dinner and dancing. Tlicre 
is a Doticealilc number of new members joining the 
old-timers at these social events. 
—.VN'THONY M. MITCHELL, Secy. 


Southeastern Iowa 
Tlic president of tlic N.D. Club of Southeastern Iowa for 1960 is LOUIS LAUTH, Buriington, la., instead of ROL.\ND MARTEL as stated in the December issue. 
Tlicrc are now fourteen couples in our Club, gathering cacli month for a dinner meeting in a home or private club. 
Our spring project is to inWtc the junior class boys of Notre Dame High Scliool here in Burling­ton as our guests and inform them about the Uni­versity. ^\*e usually show a film of Notre Dame and answer any questions the youngsters might have in the event that they might wish to apply to the University in their senior year. 
—JOHN A. DAILEY, JR., Secy. 


Spokane 
Members of tlie Notre Dame Club of Spokane, \Vashington, observed Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday by attending Mass at Our Lady of Lourdes Cathedral on December 6. The &Iass 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 
was offered for the intentions of all attending 
members. .A breakfast at the Ridpath Hotel fol­
lowed the Mass, with Club President MONK 
ALBO, '35, presiding. The guest speaker was 
REV. JOHN P. DONNELLY, editor of The In­
land Register, the diocesan newspaper. Father 
Donnelly's informal talk on the role CatlioHc lay­
men must play in current affairs was both pertinent 
and \cry interesting. 
In attendance were the following members and 

their wives: MONK ALBO, '35; CH.ARLES MAR­
QUELING, '50; ED BETHKE, '28; FRANK FL.\N­
NERY, '31; DR. CURR.\N HIGGINS,. M9; JI.M 
L^TCCH, '40; DR. BOB MAKER, '35; BOB MERZ, 
'47; GARY MYERS, '59; RAY MURPHY, '59; 
JOHN P. O'NEILL, '29; DICK ST. JOHN, '56; 
BOB ROTCHFORD, '49; VINCE SLATT, '43; 
ILVROLD SHEERAN, '50; BERNIE SMITH, '55; 
GERALD VANDENBERG, '59, and JOE WALSH, 
'14. 
The annual Holiday Party of the Club was en­joyed on Tuesday evening, December 29, at the beautiful new home of Dr. and Mrs. BOB MAHER, '35. The attractive sotting added mucli to the pleasure of the event. .A buffet supper concluded the most delightful affair which was attended by the following members and tlieir wives: MONK ALBO, '35; ED BETHKE, *28; DR. BOB DEt\K, '53; FR.\NK FL.\NNERY, '31; FRANK HAGEN­BARTH, '27; FRANK HERRON, '35; CL^VIR KEARNS, '33; JIM LYNCH, '40; DR. BOB MAHER, '35; MARK MARQUELING, '50; BOB MERZ, '47; JOE ROWAN, '50; BERNIE S.MITH, '55, and JOE AVALSH, '14. Special guests of the Club were University freshmen Terry Flanncr>-, John Heskctt and Charles Tilford, home for the holidavs. 
—JOSEPH M. WALSH, '14, Sccv-. 


Tucson 
At a meeting held January- 25 in the Bamboo Room of the Pioneer Hotel, the Notre Dame Club of Tucson elected the following ofiicers for the vcar I960: ROBERT O' Cx\LLAGHAN, president; PAUL MATZ, vice president; BERT APKER, secretary-, and MIKE BROWN, treasurer. We hope to meet monthly the rest of tliis year at the Pioneer and arc planning a continuing schedule of acti\itics. 

Tulsa 
An election was held here in Tulsa on Fdiruarv' I, 1960. The new officers are as follows: JACK 
F. MOHATT, president; JOHN G. .\UDDEN, vice-president; ROBERT L/\\\TON JONES, secre­tary, and BERNARD J. SULLIVAN, treasurer. 
—J. H. CONWAY, JR., *44, Rcdring Prcs. 


Washington, D. C. 
On the heels of the Notre Dame Communion Breakfast, featuring Judge CHARLES FAHY, come Washington Club's Holiday Dance, Dec 21, 1959, at the Burgundy Room of the Sheraton-Park Hotel. 
CLUB PRESIDENTS ELECTED SINCE THE LAST ISSUE 
Arizona Tucson—Robert O'Callaghan, '45, 725 Ca­mino Miramontc, Tucson, Ariz. 
Florida Greater Miami—^James A. Smith, '48, 672 
N.E. 98th St., Miami Shores, Fla. Palm Beach County—^VilHam Madden, '42, 315 Worth Ave, Palm Beach, Fla. St. Petersburg-^fa^k E. Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Road, Tampa, Fla. Indiana 
Micliigan City—Dr. Francis J. Kubik, '36, 902 Pine, Micliigan City, Ind. 
Burlington—Louis Lauth, Jr., '45, 322 North Fourth, Burlington, Iowa. 
Minnesota Twin Cities—Joseph T. O'.Veill, '53, 1815 Eleanor Ave, St. Paul 16, Minn. 
New Jerse>' Central—^Joseph J. Sepkoski, '50, 1155 Lo­raine Ave., Platnficld, N. J. 
Ohio Mansfield (new)—Leo J. Scanlon, '30, Scan-Ion & Berber, Carroll Bldg., BUCVTUS, O . 
Oklahoma Tulsa—Jack F. Mohatt, '35, 3754 East 46th Place, Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
Wisconsin LaCrossc—Gerald **Jcrr\-" Hcberlein, '50, 503 S. 22nd St., LaCrosse, Wis. 

BOB HUTCHINSON was cliairmau of the gay, informal affair, at which Christmas carols were added to the orchestra music and a drawing cli­ma.^ed the activities. 
President JOE FITZ.MAURICE announced nomi­nating committees for the selection of candidates for 1960 officers and directors. JOHN L. KENKEL^. and HOWARD J. SCHELLENBERG, JR., wer W cliairmen of groups whicli selected slates of candi­dates. The nominees were announced on December 29 and introduced at the Feb. 4 meeting, with ballots to be distributed well before the traditional St. Patrick's Day election. The February meeting also featured the presentation of the Club trophy awards to the outstanding football players at cacli of the Catholic high schools in the Washington area, as selected by the teams themselves, and the Notre Dame Traveling Award to the school of the city's outstanding player. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—The Mid-Jersey Club's obser>*ancc of Universal N.D. Com­munion Sunday on Dec 13 featured (from left) John J, Reager, '29, breakfast chairman; Joseph J. Sepkoski, '50, new Club president; Judge Henry W. Clement, '28, principal 
speaker, and Daniel P. Grace, '51, outgoing president. ^ 
• Engagements 
Miss Manila J. Berry and JAMES A. ROGERS, '31. Miss Elizabeth Scion Dempsey and STILLMxVX A. LOOMIS, '55. Miss Dcirdrc Marccil Bishop and DR. KEVIN THOMAS O'DOXNELL, '55. Miss Mary Adclc Hciskdt and ANDREW \VIL­
LIAM BORACZEK, '36. Miss Betty Ann Harmon and FIRST LIEUT. EDWARD DERMOTT BURNS, JR., USA, '37. Miss Slieila Calvin and ROBERT FR,\NCIS • RONEY, '57. .Miss Sandra U c Gill and E.VSIGN DONALD 
0. GILLIES, USN, '59. 

Miss Sheila Ann Hobbs and GEORGE L;\NG . COUZENS, '60. 
Marriages 

Miss Ila Mac Chrbtophcr and RICHARD N. J MARTIN, '45, San Diego, CaliL, November 28, ; 1959. 
Miss Mar>* Catherine Karslcn and WILLIAM DAVID SUTHERL.\ND, '49, Horicon, Wise, A December 28, 1959. 
Miss Jean Patricia Morrisey and WTLLIAM ; JOSEPH DUNH,\M, '53, New York City, Novcm­' bcr 7, 1939. 
Miss Sally J. Farlow and JOHN EDWARD HUGHES, '55, Portland, Oregon, October 3, 1959. 
Miss Margaret J. O'Neill and CORNELIUS F. McC.\RT\', JR., '56, Glenbrook, Connecticut,­September 26, 1959. 
.Miss Teresa Anne Mullec and ALFRED THONWS SCHOENIG, '5S, New York, New York, Nov­ember 7, 1959. 

Miss Martha Anne Butler and SECOND LIEUT. 9 ROBERT CREGG JOHNSON, USA, '58, New York, New York, November 28, 1959. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL F. KIELY, '44, a daughter, Susanna Clare, July 26, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. R,\YMOND J. RUETZ, '44, a daughter, January- 27, 1960. Mr. and -Mrs. VINCENT A. JACOBS, '46, a daughter, Deborah Ann, December 17, 1939. 

.Mr. and -Mrs. WILLIAM R. BROCKHOFF, '49, ^ ^ a daughter, Nanc>' Elizabeth, December 2, 1939. ™ Mr. and Mrs. PETER F. FL\HERTY, '31, a son, 
Shawn T. Flaherty, June 12, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H. BRENN,\N, '52, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, November 26, 1939. Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT A. DOUGHERTY, '52, a son, Michael Joseph, January 19, 1960. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD J. EAGER, '32, a daughter, Geraldinc Maria, December 5, 1959. -Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES GR,\HAM, '32, a daugh­ter, Mary Elizabeth, December 10, 1939. Mr. and .Mrs. ROBERT ^L REGAN, '32, a ^ daughter, Cynthia Mar>-, December 10, 1959. 
* Mr. and -Mrs. FRED R. SCHLICHTING, '32, a daughter, Mar>' Tliercse, December 1, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD T. LORENZ, JR., '53, a daughter, Anne, October 25, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER H. GRUGER, JR., '54, a son, Walter Hicknina, III, November 16, 1939. Mr. and Mrs. JOH.V L. ROSSHIRT, '3t, a son, Thomas Micliael, October 28. 1959. 
Mr. and .Mrs. ANTHONY J. TRIGLANI, '54. a 

^^ daughter, Adriana Maria, November 3, 1959. 
9 ilr. and Mrs. TIPTON N. PATTON, JR., '33, a daughter, Kathleen Marie, September 23, 1959. I Dr. and Mrs. STEPHEN J. PREVOZNIK, '33, a 
son, John Cyril, September 14, 1959. j Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. BRENN^VN, JR., '56, ] a son, ^lichael Joseph, November 30, 1939. I Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT BUNDSCHUH, '36, a 
• ^ daughter, Julia Mar>*, December 7, 1959. 
Mr. and Mrs. a\RL J. SCHERER, '56, a son, Stephen Eugene, November 22, 1959. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE R. MURR.VY, '37, a daughter, Kathleen Ann, December 14, 1959. Lt. and Mrs. D^VNIEL W. O'BRIEN, '58, a daughter, Ellen Marie, January 12, 1960. 
Sympathy 

FR,\NK W. DONOVAN, '26, on the death of hb father, Frank D. Donovan, December 5, 1959. ROGER W. BRESLIN, '28, on the death of his mother, December 20, 1959. WALTER E., '30, and FRED R. PARENT, '30, on the death of their mother, September 14, 1959. REV. BERNARD BLATT, '31, on the death of his mother, November 26, 1959. THEODORE ILVLPIN, '32, on the death of his wife, January- 6, 1960. JOHN F. SULLIVAN, JR., '33, on the death of his daughter, October 3, 1959. REV. THOM,\S J. McDONAGH, '38, on the death of his father, January, I960. ROBERT \V. GALVIN, '44, on the death of his father, November 4, 1959. CR.\IG A. HEWETT, '46, on the death of his mother, November, 1939. HENRY KEEL, '47, on the deaths of his wife and son, November 22, 1959. JOHN G. MARHOEFER, '32, on the death of his father, Januars' 21, 1960. ROBERT F. BROWN, JR., '57, on the death of his wife, January, 1960. 
Deaths 

REV. PATRICK J. CVRROLL, .C.S.C., Notre Dame, Indiana, died November 18, 1959 in the Community Infirmary. Father Carroll \vas former Vice President of Notre Dame, and long-time editor of the Ave Maria magazine. 
UILLLVM O'BRIEN, *00, Washington, D. C , died November, 1959, according to information received in the Alumnt Oflicc. 
DR, NICHOL^VS ^r. DOYLE, '09, of Chicago, III., died recently, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
JUDGE JOHN J. KENNEDY, '09, Pittsburgh, Pa., died January- 21, 1960. Judge Kennedy ser\-cd 22 years on the bench of Common Pleas Court. He is £ur\-ived by three daughters, and five sons, one of whom is Dr. F. Br>*an Kennedy, a '50 graduate of Notre Dame. 
JOHN F. O'CONNELL, '13, Chicago, Illinois, died January- 26, 1960. ^f^. O'ConncU w-as a former Probate and Municipal court Judge, but had been in pri\'ate practice for the last 14 years. He is sur\'ivcd by his wife, a son and three daugli­ters. 
J/VMES S. DEVLIN, *14, of Pittsburgh, Pa., died January 2, I960. Mr. Devlin spent 40 years in public ser\*ice, his last position having been tliat of City Public ^Vorks Director. He is sur­vived -by his Xflfc, his mother, a sister, and three brothers. 
JOSEPH L. BANNIG^VN, '18, of Detroit, Mich., died December 7, 1959. Nfr. Bannigan was an assistant prosecutor for nearly 24 years, and, at one time, scr\ed as Assistant U.S. Attorney. lie is sunivcd by his wife, Ruth, a son and a daughter. 
R^VYMOND J. CONILXD, '21, of Alctandria, Minn., died December 1, 1959, according to in­formation received in the Alumni Office. His widow sur\*ivcs. 
LOUIS CHESNOW, '23, of Washington, D. C , died December 11, 1959, according to information received in the Alumni Office. 
REV. FREDERICK J. MANN, C.SS.R., '23, of Ctiicago, 111., died January 9, 1960, according to information received in the Alumni Office. 
MILTON B. LEACH, '25, of Davenport, Iowa, died December 5, 1959, according to information received in the Alumni Ofitcc. He is survived by his wife, a son, two sisters and his father. 
EUGENE JOSEPH STEUERLE, '25, of Louis­ville, Ky., died July 10, 1959, according to in­formation received in the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife and a son. 
BROTHER XAVIER DONOGHUE, C.S.C., '26, of Chicago, 111., died June 12, 1959, according to information received in the Alumni Office. At the time of his death. Brother Xaner was at Holy Trinity High School. 
BROTHER JA.MES OF iURY , '26, of St. Louis, Mo., died November 22, 1959. Brother James was a history teacher at St. Patrick High School, and lived in the Christian Brothers' residence there. He was a member of the Christian Brothers for 52 years. He Is survived by a brother and two sisters. 
RAYMOND J. KASHER, '27, of Omaha, Neb., died September 23, 1959, according to -information received In the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife. 
RONALD E. RICH, '28, of South Bend, Ind., died November 25, 1959. He w*as head of the Chemical Engineering department at Notre Dame. He is survived by his wife and son, Joseph R. Rich, '58. 
WALTER F. KOLB, '30, of Mount Carmcl, III., died October 4, 1959, according to Informa­tion received in the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife, Kathryn. 
JAMES W. BAKER, '34, of Ontario, Canada, died January 3, 1960. Mr. Baker was well known in Canadian geologlail and exploration circles, hav­ing had uide experience in the Canadian North. He is survived by his wife and four sons. 
RICHARD BERNARD McARDLE, '37, of Fort \Vayne, Ind., died January 16, I960, according to information received in the Alumni Office. His Avidou- survives. 
RICHx\RD J. PHILION, '40, of ifadison Heights, Mich., died August 8, 1959, according to information received in the Alumni Office. He Is survived by his wife. 
DOUGL.AS F. HALEY, JR., *42, of Gary, Ind., died January 23, I960, according to information received in the Alumni Office. His widow is among the survivors. 
LOUIS E. BLACK, '49, of Michigan City, Ind., died suddenly January 21, I960, ^^r. Black had been manager of Doctors Hospital for the past six years. He was past president of" the Michigan City Notre Dame Club. Surviving are his wife, one daughter, two sons, his mother and four sisters. 
LOUIS C. BAUMAN, '51, Cicero, 111., died September 6, 1959, according to information re­ceived In the Alumni Office. Mr, Bauman is sur­vived bv a sister. 
JOHN L. MEYERS, '51, Carroll. Imva, died December 15, 1959. Mr. Meyers, his wife and two-year-old daughter, Ann Marie, \vere killed In an automobile accident. Two other daughters were injured. Mr. Meyers was employed by the Stude­baker-Packard Corp., prior to moving to Carroll. He is sur\ivcd by three sons, four daughters, his mother, and several brothers and sisters. 
ROBERT T. C/\RVILLE, '52, of Houston, Texas, was killed In an automobile accident Janu­ar>- I, 1960. Mr. Carvillc was the son of the late 
E. P. Carvillc, '09. He is survived by his wife and four children. 
FATHER EUGE.\E A. MORLVRTY, of South ^^eriden, Conn., died November 22, 1959. Father Moriarty was pastor of Holy Angels Church, South Meridcn, and had previously taught English literature at Notre Dame from 1935 to 1936. 
5o-Year Club 

Tiie following resolution in tribute to the Rev­erend Edward Finncgan, C.S.C., was adopted by directors of tlie St. Joseph County Tuberculosis League at their meeting on October 1, 1939: 
RESOLUTION \VHERE.AS the REVEREND ED^VARD FINNE­GAN, C.S.C., has scr^'cd on the Board of Directors of the Tuberculosis League for seventeen years — bringing his kindly wisdom to bear upon our prob­lems, softening the approach to many difficult situa* tlons by his extraordinary grasp of human values — and has contributed to our business discussions an Illuminating realism, 
^VHEREAS in addition. Father Finncgan's nat­ural out-going warmth has not only made lus presence at' our meetings a benign and effective 
Notre Dame AlumnttSj Marckj 1960 13 
influence, but has also brought personal comfort and courage to \-arious members of tlie Board in their times of trial and bereavement, 
AXD WHEREAS for many years — 1925 to 1945 

— as ciliaplain of Hcalthwin Hospital, he made a\-ailablc, daily, the spiritual nourishment of his cliurcli to patients in the hospital, 
BE IT RESOLVED that this instrument be suit­ably engrossed, so that the Board's gratitude to Father Finnegan for his faithful participation in our affairs and his ministrations to our people may be made a matter of permanent record. 
It w-as signed by JERRY HICKEY, president of the County T.B. League. 
Tlie roll of scniiccntcnarians ^vho have gone to their eternal reward in recent weeks is short but imposing. It is headed by FATHER PATRICK CARROLL, C.S.C., tvho took his A.B. as a semi­narian in the 1890's and went on to be head of Sacred Heart College, president of St. Edward's University and vice-president of Notre Dame, known to other generations as an author, teaclicr and editor. 
WILLIAM 0*BRIEN', wlio died in November, rt-as on campus in the high scliool before getting an LL.B. in 1900. Apparently the last of his line, he had been living at the John Dickson Home in AVashington, D. C. His wife had died and his son u-as killed in action ser\-ing with the Canadian army in World War I. Known as Shamus O'Brien on campus he played baseball and \\*as a mem­ber of the track team. After about twenty years in show business he began the practice of law in Chi­cago and returned to the campus frcauently in the 20's and 30's. Tlie Notre Dame Club of Washing­ton gathered and recited the rosary for him, and his funeral was attended by priests from Holy Cross College. 
Death also took two prominent members of the Class of '09. Dr. NICHOLAS M. DOYLE and Judge JOHN J. KENNEDY. Dr. Doyle had lived in Chicago, and Judge Kennedy was a highly re­spected citizen of Pittsburgh. Classmate JOHN KANALEY remembers him as a distinguished jur­ist, outstanding athlete, patriotic citizen (Distin­guished Ser\ice Cross for x-alor In AVorld AVar I) and exemplary parent. His wife died many years ago at the birth of the last of his eight cliildren, one of whom is Dr. F. BRYAN KENNEDY, *50. 
50 YEAR REUNION Class of '10 
JUNE 10-11-12 
1910 

Present (tentative) plans for the Golden Jubilee Reunion call for Iiousing in Ho%\'ard Hall, just a few steps from the more familiar but less inviting structure named in honor of Father Badin and the grounds tliat once were alternately a mud puddle and a skating rink. Tlie glories of the football cliampions of 1909 will be sung over meals and gatherings in tlic Morris Inn. 
Of course, Badin Hall was still St. Joseph's Hall in 1910 and didn't acquire those rambling wings until later (1917), while Howard was just a gleam in the o-c of FATHER MATT WALSH, one of several residences (Morrissey, Lyons, etc.) creeled in the twenties by the president who brought the students back to campus and reshaped tlic jUumni Assn. as it exists today. To recapture those fabu­lous times, be sure to be on hand June 10. 
Sj-mpathy to FATHER EDGAR J. MISCH on the deatii of Ins sister last November 26. 
Fred L. Steers 
1911 
105 S. LaSalle St Chicago 3, Illinois 

Fnjm the Alumni OfEcc: The most distinguished of many outstanding 'II grads. His Eminence JOHN CARDINAI. O'HARA, ans^vered "population explosion" li>'steria of birtli control advocates in a December pastoml letter to the Arclidioccse of Philadelphia: "If they do any research at all they must know that in this country only Catholics and Negroes show an ex­traordinary increase in birtlis — the latter about 60 per cent and the former about 100 per cent over the totals of, say, fifteen years ago. Arc 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, I960 

John P. Murphy, '12 (right), president of The Higbee Company of Cleveland, Ohio, studies a preliminary layout for the new $30 million Severance Center in which Higbec's will have a major suburban department store. L. Paul Gilmore, president of Severance Estate, Inc., indicates the buildings' position on a 12-acrc sloping site in the center of a 151-acre Cleveland Heights estate. The new Higbee store will be the company's first branch operation. Mr. Murphy is a University trustee and former president of the Alumni Association. 
those who ^\-ant to supplant divine wisdom by tlicir own planning disturbed by this? Let them leave us to God. We ask no sympathy , . ." Cardinal O'Hara quoted an Egx-ptian official's daim that American attempts to impose birth control on other peoples is biological warfare, prompted by fear of other races and designed to kill them off. He urged a return to Bethlehem for an appreciation of the divine gift of parenthood and renewal of the spirit of sacrifice whicli gives souls to God. 
IQ1 7 B. J. ••Bcai" Kaiser 
• ' • ^ 604 East Tenth St Berwick, Pa. 
From the Alumni Office: 
J. W. "BILL" KAUFER and Maud arc on their annual winter sojourn in Florida after their annual summer stay up at Mullet Lake. Bill, who established South Bend Roofing C6., still gets his mail for^rarded from 1071 Riverside Dr., South Bend. 
191 3 -^^^ ^- Byrne 
•^•' ' 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Olficc: We arc again indebted to CLYDE BROUSSARD, who sent some welcome notes from Beaumont, Texas, about classmates and other alumni. In correspondence with Three Lakes, Wis., builder FRED "CY" WILLIAMS, Clyde discussed the relative merits of skiing down Wisconsin slopes and boating along the Texas bcaclics. The Willi'amses live on a cliain of 27 lakes with a total shoreline of 777 miles. Cy disclosed that he had suffered a tough financial setback a year ago when his wood­working shop, dry kilns, etc., burned down. He remembered arcliitecture classmate D. B. **JACK" SHOURDS, reported by CI>-dc as an architect with offices in New Orleans and Gulfport, Miss. Cy recalled looking up BILL TIPTON in Watrous, 
N. M., during a trip through the Southwest and finding that Bill, active in R.O.T.C. as a student, never recovered from mental Illness incurred during World War II and is confined in a government hos­pital at La Junta, Calif. In his helpless condi­tion Bill could use the prayers of his classmates. Cy mentioned tlie possibility of visiting Claude on a trip to Texas this winter. 
Sympathy to the family of JOHN J. 0*CON­NELL, former Chicago municipal and probate judge, who died January 26. He had been in pri\"atc practice and x-arious businesses in recent years. 
-# 

1914 ^^^ 0*NeUI 
• ' • ^ 1350 N. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Ind. 
Acting Secretar>*: \V'alter Clements 623 Park Avenue, South Bend, Indiana 

From the Alumni Office: 
PO^'NT DOWNING and JOE WALSH can be checked on between reunions as pillars of the Decatur, 111., and Spokane, A\'ash., N.D. Clubs, ^ . respectively. ^ 
Your prayers are requested for the repose of the soul of JAMES S. DEVLIN, who died Janu­ary 2. Director of public works for the city of Pittsburgh, he had been a civil engineer and public sen.'ant for 40 years. 
45 YEAR REUNION Class of '15 
JUNE 10-11-12 

191 5 J^unes E. Sanford "* 1429 W. Farragut Ave. Chicago 40, III. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Secretar\' JIM SANFORD was at the AValdorf in N. Y. C. preparing to cover the National ^\ssn. of Manufacturers meeting when he came J upon the National Football Foundation dinner and" was invited In, meeting, beside all the great living figures of football, Cardinal Spellman, Gen. Doug­las MacArlhur, Bob Hope, Gene Tunncy, etc. "N.D. was well represented," writes Jim, "with HARRY STUHLDREHER on stage and .MOOSE KRAUSE introduced from the floor." 
In the space of three months the Class* most publicized personality, DR. GEORGE N. SCHUS­TER, (I) had a building named for him, Shusler Hall, a magnificent library-administration building on Hunter College's Bronx campus; (2) retired asi president of Hunter, effective January- 1; (3) ac­cepted a post as director of the Committee on IntercuUural Studies in Colleges and Universities, fonned to determine the extent of our non-AVcstcrn studies by tlic American Council on Education, supported by a grant from the Edward W. Hazen Foundation, and (4) Iiad a new book published by Harper, "Education and Moral Wisdom," cxplor­
ing the purpose of education, academic freedom, I philosophical influences and the difference between : education and wisdom. 
Now is the time to set aside June 10, II and 12 for the 45th Reunion. JOE BYRNE, appointed by Sccrctar>' Sanford to head a national reunion com-

i mittee, took time from his trustee and business 
I duties to write to tlie Class. One sequel was the sad discovery- that LAWRENCE BARRETT had died in >fay of 1958 without the knowledge of his 
^ ^ classmates. You will still wish to pray for Larry; ffV doubtless he intended to make the 45th. Your lii I bcin^ on hand in June will insure against any 5 repetition of this unfortunate lapse in com­; munication. 
191 6 ^'^^^ ^- ^lillcr 

612 Wisconsin Ave V Racine, Wis. 
From the Alumni Office: Fathers HENRY GLUECKERT and PATRICK HAGGERTY, still holding forth on campus, should 

• enjoy the reminiscences of EDGAR KOBAK on life with the Minims in St. Edward's Hall: ".. . they did have an interesting leather strap, eight feet long, with lead at the important end, and it was used by a priest six feet six. 
"I found out later the strap had no lead In it, it was only eighteen inches long, and the prefect of discipline was about five feet sLx . . .'* 

1917 Edward J. McOskcr : • ' • ' R.R. 2, Box 1, So. State St. Rd. Elgin, lU. 
^^From the /Uumni Office: 
Situated as he is in Pompano Bcacli, Fla., with the Lauderdale, Miami and Palm Beach County N.D. Clubs in forward passing range, CHARLES BACHMAN must be kept busy filling young alumni in on his coaching trials at North­western and Michigan State that made way for the successes of Daugherty and Parscghtan. Charlie and Cleveland's STAN COFALL took their team leadership into coaching and business with great success. 
1918 Charles W. Call 
• y • w 225 Paterson Ave. 

^ Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. 
: JOHN J. VOELKERS, now of Winter Park, Fla., has just recovered from an operation. He informs us that his brother Gerald, '10, died of a heart attack In South Bend while he was hos­pitalized and it was Impossible for him to attend the funeral. Our sympathy to John on the loss of his brother and to the family of JOSEPH L. B^VN­NIG/\N, who died in December of an apparent heart attack. Joe had ser\'ed in Detroit for many years as assistant prosecutor and assistant U.S. attomc>' and had been a candidate for secretary' 
^ k of state. J Your sccrctar\- attended the Class Secretaries ; Conference on campus in Januar>' and hopes you 
noticed the prominent mention of President JOHN LEMMER In the last issue. 
1010 Theodore C. Rademaker Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 

From the Alumni Ofiice: 
Congratulations to MAURICE C/\RROLL on his election to the Alumni Association's national dfc board of directors. Maurice was on campus in 
-Januar>' for the board's first meeting, with little opportimity to review his architectural handiwork on the Rockne Memorial and at S.M.C. 
40 YEAR REUNION Class of '20 
JUNE 10-11-12 

1 9?0 J^tnics H. Ryan I TAW j^Q Maybrook Rd. 
" on June 10, 11 and 12. Most of the obscr\-anccs and the reminbcing will probably be concentrated In the comfort of Howard Hall and the Morris Inn. A large local delegation is expected to In­clude WILLIAM BAKER, MENEFEE CLE.M­ENTS, ED DOR^VN, ED FREDERICKSON, Doctors HERBERT FORSTER and FRANCIS \'URPILL.\T and, of course, ED MEEHAN, SR. You will want to visit with FATHERS JAMES CONNERTON and ARTHUR HOPE, and may­be others In the Congregation will be able to come from Portland, Chicago, etc. Sorely missed and remembered in prayer will be REV. 'NVILLIAM HAVEY, C.S.C., wlio surely counted on seeing his classmates before his death in December. Among toasts to the memory' of "the Gipper" there should be a couple of belts in honor of BILL FOX for his Grantland Rice Award. Everything is ready, and it's time for you to get ready too. 
Surveying the scene in January was Secretary JI.M RYx\N, who took the editor's plea for breWty too seriously and abbreviated his column to nothing at all. Jim Is hereby authorized to print all news received from classmates who promise to make the reunion. 
192 1 Dan AV. Duffy 
^ ' 1101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 

/Vlumni Director H/\RRY MEHRE of our time, whom you will remember at Georgia and old Miss, addressed the Cleveland Touchdown Club on Tues­day, Jan. 19. Harr>- really had a hilarious and happy speech. 
He regaled the Club with stories for about an hour and a half and when he finished, they were yelling for more. Having always had a great sense of humor, Harr>''s experiences in coacliing make him one of the easiest men to listen to tliat this listener has ever enjoyed. He made a happy eve­ning for about 900 people. I wonder what would have happened if JOE BR/\NDY had been there to heckle him. 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to JOHN E. KENNY, elected in December as president and chief executive officer of the Foster Wheeler Corporation, specialists in the design and construction of petroleum and chemical processing plants. aVLLLX MILLER reported that RAY CONR/VD died suddenly in December. Tlie Class's deep sympathy is hereby expressed to Ray's family. 
1922 *^' ^' "^^" ^^^ 
175 Landing Rd. North Rochester, N.Y. 

From the Alumni Oflice: 
Secretary- KID ASHE hopes classmates noticed his change of address In the last issue. TIic Kid, still on the move, will probably have a whopping column In July. 
The Philadelphia Eagles of the National Foot-­ball League rehired head coach L/VWRENCE (BUCK) SHAW* in December before the 1959 season was over. Buck u'alved a longer contract because of his plans to retire after the '60 season. .•\ coach for nearly 40 yeai^, he succeeded HUGH DEVORE in 1958 and rebuilt his cellar-dwelling team of that year into the top contenders of the N.F.L.'5 Eastern Division in 1959. 
Louis V. Bruggncr 

1923 
2165 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Ind. 
Two deaths in recent weeks have terminated a 

welcomed lull enjoyed in 1959 In the demise of 
men of '23. ': 
On December 11, 1959, LOUIS CHESNOW, B.Arch. '23, died In Veterans Hospital, after a long Illness, according to a clipping from the Detroit Free Press. He was 65 years old. Bom in Russia, he had been a Detroit resident for 50 years, serving in \Vorld ^Va^ I, after which he entered Notre Dame. Sur\*i\ing is a daughter, Mrs. Pauline Pozen of Los Angeles and one grandson. 
FATHER FRED J. ^L\NN, CSs.R., died Saturday, Jan. 9, In Columbus Hospital, at the age of 58. At the time of his death he was assistant pastor of St. Michael's Church, Chicago. A native of Chicago, he attended Notre Dame for two years and left in 1922 to Join the Redemp­torist Missionaries. He \*'as ordained in 1932, served in various parishes and hospitals in San Antonio, Denver, Wichita, concluding with his last two years at the Chicago parish. Correspondence received from him over a period of years indicated he had not been In good health for some time. He is survived by three brothers In the Jesuit order, three other brothers and two sisters. 
FRANK WALLACE has been engaged for months in the writing of a biography of Knute Rockne, proposing as he explained it to "show the old boy as he was, which will be good enough, and correct a lot of the foolishness grown on the fringes of the legend." Frank requests Classmates and all Alumni to send him scrap book clips from their files having to do with Rock, and promises to return them as soon as he can. Address your clips to Francis Wallace, BcIIalre, Ohio. 
Mrs. NEIL \V. FLINN, '57 head librarian of the Superior, Wisconsin library', died while at work at the library early in December. She was conversing with people at her work when she collapsed and w*as pronounced dead at the library by her physician. She is sur\'ived by her husband and a sister in California. Information came to this office in a roundabout way from a sister-in­law (in Superior) of WILLLVM L. VOSS, '23 who fonvardcd the clipping to the 5ecretar>"'s at­tention. Piecing together of certain facts ax-all­able would indicate the date of death to be December 5. 
WALTER F. RAUBER, 270 Berryman Dr., Buffalo, N. Y., manager of apparatus sales In Buffalo for the General Electric Co. since 1953, and an employee of the company since 1927, was to have retired December 31, according to a Buffalo Nc*%-s stor>- of December sent to my at­tention. Shortly before the story broke, he •was honored at a luncheon attended by friends and assoa'ates from Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, Niagara Falls and Erie. Although the article makes no mention of ^Valt's plans we assume he will keep busy playing golf at the Country Club of Buffalo, being secretary of the Buffalo Rotary Club, and endorsing G. E. diridend checks. 
JOHN C. ("J.ABEZ") COCHRANE notified me that he and his Alice are flying via jet to Rome 
Rochester 18, N. Y. Head football coach Joe Kuharich, '38 (right), brushes up on pre-Rockne athletic lore as he consults nnth a trio of gridiron pioneers: Monogram Club President Wm. "Bill" Schmitt 
j From the Alumni Office: 
(left) and Harry "Red" Miller, 1909 teammates now in training for the Class of '10 Golden 
• Everything seems ready for an auspicious 40th 
anniversary of the '20 Class at the Class Reunions Jubilee in June, flanking Jess Harper, Irish coach from 1913 to 1917. 
9 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, I960 15 
on April 7, planning to be there during Holy 
Week, and from tlicrc to \-arioiis continental points 
of interest, returning via the Queen Elizabeth about 
June 10. 
Tlicir son, CHRISTOPHER \V. COCHRANE, 
'46, is stationed in Rome with his family as 
\Iiddlc East representative for Kaiser-Willys and 
as Eccond v.p. of the N, D. Club of Rome. 
1 0OA James R. Median I TA f 329 5 Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
Those on hand for the reunion last June learned that most of the large and distinguished CS.C. contingent have answered their Congre­gation's call to the frontiers of Portland, King's College, St. Ed's, Sacred Heart, Pakistan, etc Remaining are FRANK HENRY BOLGER, still turning out physicists, and FATHER PHIL MOORE, now academic assistant to FATHER HESBURGH in charge of faculty-administration planning on the New Library. 
35 YEAR REUNION Class of '25 JUNE lO-n-12 
1925 J°^^ ^- Hurley 
'••^ 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
Boys, lets "go like sixty" at our 35th on June 10, 11 and 12. You received your list of class­mates . . . write them and urge them to come. "RIP" MILLER, as Committee of One, promised to contact ever\- Monogram Man on that famous 1924 team . . . the one and only Notre Dame team to make the Rose Bowl. That is a good start and DON MILLER will contact the lawyers and his pal EVARD KOHL will line up the engi­neers. Ah PORTA who is still on the home grounds will get the commerce men. TOM COMxVN will stir up the A.B, men. 
Big plans arc in the ofling and JIM ARM­STRONG and a few more in the South Bend area arc making this reunion diflTcrcnl. One new idea proposed on which you may have received a letter before you read this, is a Saturday noon lunclieon, \rith all the classes from 1930 on back. Wc plan on haWng all the professors and priests at this luncheon who were with us from our Freshman year to our graduation. That in itself, sliould bring the attendance up . . . because we know you will be happy to sec them. Tliere will be at least a "bakers dozen" of the old profs and rcctoni there . . . with Fx\THER MATT WALSH, our president in the good old da\-s of 1925. 
Tlie gang who were at our Na\Ti' game reunion all promised to work on the rest of the class. Tliesc are the men you didn't see because you wcTc not at that afTair .. . so t!\csc same gentlemen will be on deck in June to greet you as a welcoming committee: ELMER LAYDEN, BEN KESTING, FR.\NK HOWXAND, JOHN DROEGE, PAUL HARTMAN, GEORGE LAUGHLIN, DON MILLER, JOHN COURT­NEY, CHARLES GLUECKERT, HARRY STUHLDREHER, HANK WTJRZER, GEORGE LUDWIG. TED BINTZ, DR. C\' CALDWELL, EV KOHL, FRANK NAUGHTON, RIP MIL­LER, DA\^ a\MPBELL, JOH N GALLA­GHER, WALTER MET2GER and JIM ARM­STRONG. That was a swell teaser of a party . . . join us in June for the big affair. 
Along with the glad news wc have some sad news. HANK WURZER sent me a copv of a letter to JIM ARMSTRONG: "MILTON LEACH of our class, who originally came from Faribault, Minn., and lias lived in Davenport for the last eight or ten years, died December 5th." Hank called personally and also extended sympathy on behalf of the Class of 1925 with our usual Mass card. The Alumni ofiicc just learned of llic death of EUGE.\E J. STEURLE of 1439 Willow Ave., in Louisville, Ky. Gene died last July 10th. A high Mass was said for Gene also. Our deepest svTnpathy goes to the wives and families of these two classmates. 
Tlie Mass Fund could stand a few more dollars. A partial report from H.\NK WURZER indicates this. You will gel a full report when you come in June. "Over the past nine years there has 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, I960 

FORT WAYNE—^Among alumni and sons gathered at the Keenan Hotel for the Fort Wayne Club's annual Notre Dame Communion breakfast were (1. to r.) Bob O'Reilly, son of altmmus R. E. O'Reilly and a junior at Central Catholic High; Stan Colligan, son of Joseph P. Colligan and a soph at C.C.H.S.; Mr. Colligan, who ^vas chairman of the cvent ^ Rev. Stanley J. Parry, CS.C , head of the N.D. political science department and guesA' 
speaker on the First Amendment; and Paul O. Schirmeyer, Club president. 
been contributed to the Mass Fund, $782.00 by 185 difTcrent members of the class and some have con-Inbuted more than once. The siun of $711.00 has been expended which is all for Mass stipends, except the cost of the memorial cards that are issued and distributed each five years carrying the names of the deceased class members and the dale of their death, together with appropriate prayers for the dead. The idea and purpose is that thc>' be carried in the missals and prayer books of the class members. 
"Over the ten year period there have been a total of 106 Masses offered for the deceased members of the class. SLxty for all the deceased members and forty-six of the Masses were offered for the individual members." HANK "WURZER, our treasurer, has done a splendid job on this Mass Fund. HANK'S full report was given by me at the Class Secretaries Conference on January 16lh at Morris Inn on tlic campus. Our class was the first to start a Mass Fund so let's keep it going! Let Hank know ho^v you feci about this Fund and mail him a few bucks along with a little neu-s about younielf. SEE YOU I.N JUNE . . . you will be glad you came. 
From the Alumni Office: 
A. J. PORTA, executive vice president of Stude­baker-Packard, has taken on another of many responsibilities as Sister Madeleva's appointee to the chairmanship of the Micliiana President's Council of St. Mar>-'s College across the highway. A member of the Council since its inception, he's also a director of the South Bend Chamber of Commerce, Committee of 100, St. Joseph's Hospi­tal and the United Fund. 
JOHN W. BRENNAN is six times a grand­father with the arri\-al of Kathleen Ann, fourth diild and second daughter of son Jim, '5G, and his wife ^laurene. 
192A ^^^y Goepfrich 
• '^ ^ 1109 N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Ind. 

According to an article in the Tampa Tribune, our MARK MOONEY has been elected president of the Notre Dame Club of tlie Florida West Coast. Congratulations, Mark! Since tlien, Mark wrote that the Club is quite active in promoting actin­ties for its members. Tlie>' had smokers during the N.D.-Iowa and N.D.-Micliigan State Football games, a Christmas dinner and dance at the Sunset Country Club, and arc planning a beach party for June. 
^rark also writes that JIM GLYNN is back in the paper box business with St. Regis Paper Com­pany, and that AL JOHANNES just returned from a world tour and looks great. 
DAN O'NEILl., who is ^vith the Holophanc Company, illuminating engineers using the coined word "illumineering" to describe their business, called at my company, Bcndlx, on business and wc had a very cnjo>*abIc chat. He advised that TOM FARRELL had just returned home from the hospital after an operation there. We hope you're up and around by now, Tom. Dan also said he sees DR. GERRY HAYES frequently and that they had dinner together recently. 
I had lunch with JOHN RY^XN, our president, on a recent trip to Chicago. Wc talked some about plans for our 1961 reunion, whicli is drawing nigh. Wc would be glad to get some suggestions from you fellows on interesting events which we might include in our program. After lunch, while walking down the street, John and I met JOE BAILEY and wc had a ten-minute \-isit on thc^ | sidei^'alk. Joe is an attorney in Chicago. John and Ona Ryan visited at our house after one of the football games. We had some highballs and lots of conversation. John said that he had seen JIM STACK and DOC GELSON at one of the games. 
Last Fall, Mrs. G. and I took the Rcdden-Notrc Dame Football Tour which consisted of a week's stay at Waikiki Beach in Hawaii, and then the California-Notrc Dame football game at Berke­ley, California on the way home. It was a very enjoyable trip and we liked the outcome of the game. While in Hawaii, wc met a couple of—. Notre Dame men in Honolulu. TOM FL\Ts*N, '35,i|f went to the Island in the late 30's as an employee of the FBI. He now has his own law business and is doing well. BILL HANNIFIN has been on the Island for 23 years, first as an employee of the U.S. Trcasur>' Department, then as a manu­facturer's agent for clothing and soft goods, which required a lot of traveling in the Far East, and now in the real estate business. We had nice visits with both of them. 
RAY DURST, our past president, and his wife Grace, were at Notre Dame for an Alumni Board meeting and Mrs. G. and I had a short but pleasant visit with them on Sunday morning ^f^crvv Mass. At that time, Ray was still "taking it c3sy."^J 
DENNIS O'NEILL sent a beautiful photographic Christmas card, showing, in groups, his family and his children's families — real neat. 
Your secretary was confined to the hospital with a case of acute h>-pertcnsion in January*. As a con­sequence, he missed the Notre Dame Class Secre­taries Conference which was held at Notre Dame on January* 15, 16 and 17. He ^\'as on the pro­gram to talk on a very fascinating subject, i.e., ^'Drinking at Reunions." In his absence, the assignment was ably handled by good old Jim Armstrong. (Ed. Note: The assignment seemed a natural for the top Bcndix "skid prevention"A\ expert, Rudy. But the h>-pcrlcnsion suggests that in vour work you haven't learned to put on the brakes. JL) 
I Q27 Clarence J. Ruddy 
•'^' 32 S. River St. Aurora, HI. 
While I was in Pittsburgh a few months ago, I looked up PINKY MARTIN. Although no one^^ in school realized it, Pinky's name is "Charles.""^ 1 find that this characteristic still persists because his name in the telephone director>' is carried as *'Pinky," In any event, Pinky and I got together a couple of times. He and his wife graciously called for mc at the hotel on Sunday morning, look mc to Church and gave mc a delicioiu break­fast. Pinky is employed by the PennsyK-ania In­surance Department. He still maintains his interest^'v 
" n athletics and oflicialcs at games involving boys' teams, lie brought me up to date on a couple of other classmates PHIL LO PRESTI lives in Johnstown^ Peiinsylx'ania, has been in the General /\ssetnbly at Harrisburg fur several terms and is a recognized leader of the legislature. NEIL GA­LONE is doing well with t!ic Bell Telephone Company. 
I ran into V/VN WALI^VCE in the cafeteria at Notre Dame during one of the football games last fall. His mother and other members of his 

kfamily were whh hiin. He enjoys seeing the 
^^ames as much as any uf tlic rest of us, and also like the rest of us enjoys it more when the team wins. 
Following the Na\y Game, FR^VNK MORx\N, TOM DUNN, LEO (Butch) HERBERT, MARC FIEHRER and his friend CILVRLES EBERLE, LEWIS WOODIwV, GENE KNOBLOCK, MIKE SWTGERT, LES (or Bill) TR^WIS, BILL VOOR, JACK DAILEY and myself got together with our wives and had dinner. Not all of these men are classmates, but those who were not, soon realized that by their sheer good fortune they 

^happened to be associated with representatives of *the Class of 1927. 
I received a letter from JIM BROWN stating that he, like TO.M.MY GREENE, has a daughter at Barat College. She will graduate in June of this year. Jim's home is formerly Springfield, Mass., but is now living in Katonali, New York. He is Treasurer of South American Minerals and Merchandise Corporation in New York City. 
As I write these notes I have just returned from a conference of Class Secretaries which was held in the Morris Inn. Frankly, I must say that other Classes seem to do a lot better in exchanging news than we do. I believe this is a situation 

i^that should be remedied, and I think it will be. 
^\Vithin the next inonih or so, I intend to send out a questionnaire to all membtrs of the Class. I hope you will all fill it out carefully. I know you will all want to revive the associations that we made years ago. After all, our 35lh Reunion is only a little more than two years away, and as we all must know by now, two years pass all too quickly. £vcr>*one had better begin now to make his plans. May I gently point out that some of us may not have too many Reunions to look for­ward to? In order to make the next event suc­cessful, committees will have to be appointed and a real effort made to get as large an attendance 
»
as possible. 
1998 ^o^ F* Buckley ^^^ 68-10 108th St., Forest Hilis 75, N.Y. 
In the death of RON RICH on November 25 in South Bend the Class lost one of its most distinguished and lov-al members. Ron has been a professor at Notre Dame since 1931 and head of the Department of Chemical Engineering since 1942. He is survived by his witc, two sons and a daughter and a grandson. Ron is listed in *'Who's Who in /Vinerica,'* "Who's ^Vho in En­

9 gineering" and "American Men of Science." I could always depend on Ron for help in arrang­ing for reunions and in getting out mailings to engineers. VINCE C/\RNEY had a note from Ron in October expressing his regrets at not being able to attend our Class cocktail party tliis year. He asked at that time for us to keep him in our prayers. The Class arranged for FATHER MUL­RE^VNY, C.S.C., to offer a ^fass for Ron. Father Andy, who represented the Class at the urake, said he had dinner with Ron and ANDY BOYLE in September while JOE REPETTI was al Notre Dame enrolling his boy as a freshman. 
ED Rf\FTER called my attention to the deaths of two men who were well known to our Class, FRED COLLINS on September 25 at Lakeside, Mich., and JOHN BULFIN, '29, who was a teacher in the Chicago public Iiigh schools. TIM TOOMEY of Boston advised of the death of Dr. JOE SULLIVAN'S father in Holyoke recently. Dr. Joe returned from Nicaragua in October and now lives at the Belhesda East Apartments, 4405 East West Highway, Bethesda, Md. BILL BROWN of Milwaukee wrote regarding the deatlis of Father JAMES .McDONALD, C.S.C., and Father PATRICK OVRROLL. CS.C. 
Father .\NDY MULREANY, CS.C , offered a Mass on December 6 for all deceased members of the Class of '28. Father JI.M McSH^VNE, S.J., offered a Mass for our deceased classmates on November I. 
The '28 Class' fourth annual cocktail party, held following the Northwestern game, in 

Memories of 1931-32, when they were all on campus at once (a record perhaps?), were awakened at a recent reunion of the four Locher brothers: (from left) Paul, '38, who also attended *31-'33, won an ALA. from Har\-ard, a Ph.D. from the Sorbonne, Paris, and is now professor of history at Georgetown; Dr. Robert, '34 (M.D. Iowa), now a general practitioner in Cedar Rapids; John, *35 (Juris Doctor '36), practicing law in Cedar Rapids; and Cy, '33 {LL.B. Iowa), now a lawyer in Alonticello, Iowa. 
O'Shaughncssy Hall was another great success. We are indebted to our Class President, JIM ALLi\N, who worked with the Alumni Office in plannnig the affair. VI.VCE CARNEY took care of the cost of printing and mailing return post­cards to the ^vhole class, and BERNIE GARBER contacted classmates in the Ne^v York area with cards. The following classmates who have attended all the prior class cocktail parties were on hand again this year: JIM ALL.\X, JACK a\XIZ^\RO, FRANK CREi\DON, JOE DORAN, AUGIE GRAMS, JOE HILGER, ED McKEOAW, JOE MORRISSEY, BILL H. .MURPHY and CH.\RLIE SCHUESSLER, Those present this year who had attended one or two previous class cocktail parties included NEIL A.MIOT, GUS JENKINS, DICK QUINL.\N, ED R^VFTER, VINCE WALSH, VINCE C\RNEY, FlUVNK DONOVAN, MIKE HOG.VN, FR^VNK McCVRTHY, ARNOLD THOMA, RAY MULLIG.VN, BERNIE SCHUH and BOB MOHLMAN. Tlic following classmates attended for the first time: JI.M CON.MEY, DR. .MARCUS FARRELL, BERNIE BIRD, GEORGE KELLEY, BILL LE.\HY, LEO McIN*TYRE, JOE REPETTI, and JOHN RICKFORD. The wives and children of a number of classmates were also in attendance at the affair. Those of you who were not able to be present this year should make plans to attend next year. JIM ALLAN hopes to arrange for another party next year following the Michigan State game at Notre Dame on October 15. ^fark your new 19G0 calendar now* and plan to order scats for that game. 
The following comment from MIKE HOG*\N is typical of those received: *'Just a word of thanks for the vcr\' fine time we from Fort ^\'ayne had at the cocktail party after the Northwestern game. It was very worthwhile. Frankly, I wouldn't miss any of our get-togethers for the world. FRANK McCVRTHY stopped in today to say what a fine time he and his daughter had," FR/VNK CREx\­DON obser\"ed, **It was the best party we have had. There was much more room, which afforded more time to renew friendships. JIM ALIvVN, VINCE CVRNEY and the others who promoted the affair dcser\'e a big 'thank you.' " 
Tlic Class cocktail party was not only a huge social success, but it also netted the Class trea­sury about $100.00. In addition, the following classmates who were guarantors of the affair con­tributed a total of $140.00 to the Class treasury: JI.M ALLAN, BILL KE*\RNEY, DICK PHEL/VN, AUGIE GR.\MS, JOE MORRISSEY, FIUNK DOXOV.VN. HOWIE PHALIN and ED Mc-KEOWN. 
Thanks to ART CVNTY of Los Angeles, I re­ceived a copy of the October, 13, 1959, issue of the Los .-\ngele5 Times announcing the appoint­ment by Governor Brown ot MERVIN A. AG­GELER of Santa Monica as Judge of the Superior Court of the State of California. Judge Aggcler scried as Deputy District Attorney of Los Angeles County, IW6 to 19M, and as Judge o£ the Miuu­dpal Court, Los Angeles County, 1955 to 1959-. After being graduated in otur Class he rcceiveii his LL.B. degree at Loyola University of Los / Angeles. He was married in 1935. He served oveir-, seas in the North African and Italian campaigu from 1942 to 1946. You will recall Afervin room­ing with JOHN CAVANAUGH, JOHN GOCKE and BILL MURPHY near me in Freshman Hall. 
FRANK CREADON sent a picture from the Chicago Tribune of November 18, 1959, of Judge JOHN LYONS taking the oath of ofHce of the Illinois Superior Court Judge after having been re-elected recently to his second term on this court. John previously served as Probate Judge In Cook County and as a member of the State Parole Board. He was married in 1934 and has one son, 14 years of age. 
In November I had a very enjoyable luncheon get-together in New^ York with BERNIE GAR­BER, GEORGE CRONGEYER, ED^VIN F. BRENNAN, FRANK FLYNN and TIERNEY O'ROURKE. It was the first time I had seen ED BRENNAN since our 25-ycar reunion. Ed is with the Burlington Industries, Inc., in New York and has six daughters, ages 9 to 22. GEORGE CRONGEYER, who is still single, is with the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., and TIERNEY 0*ROURKE, the New York Life In­surance Co. FRANK FLYNN, who is an attorney with an English insurance company, had just re­turned from the Navy game and had attended the '29 class cocktail party. 
My scouts report that the following classmates wetc seen at the North Carolina game: NEIL AMIOT, JIM CONMEY, DON O'.MEARA, JIM KEARNS, BILL KEARNEY, JOE HILGER, ED McKEOWN, JIM ALLAN, BILL MURPHY, JOHN IGOE and HERB .McCABE. JACK WIS­CERTER, LARRY STADLER, TOM RODGERS and BILL DOWDALL attended the Naxy game. DON RAU and JAMES KELLEY were seen at the Michigan State game. LARRY O'CONNOR, JOE HILGER and JIM ALLAN had lunch at MIKE RICK'S home before the Purdue game. ART MILLER was up from Fort Wayne for the Southern California game, 
ED RAFTER met JOHN CAVANAUGH re-, cently in Chicago. John is a partner in the law linn of McDermott, Will and Emery. John was hospitalized at the time of our 30th reunion and was highly disappointed to have missed it. He was very busy as Chairman of his Milwaukee high school reunion last June. John has five children, 5 to 18 years. CHARLIE SCHEUSSLER's son, who is a member of the Notre Dame golf team, led the field in a junior tournament in Chicago last summer. 
I was successful in digging up some news on several classmates about whom we have had no word in some time. DON 0'ME.^RA is in the tavern business In Peoria. His address is .Apart­ment E, 101 South Glen Oak. JOHN (RED) LAHEY is \vorking as head pharmacist for the Illinois State Hospital in DLxon. JOE HORAN is with General Electric in Erie, Pa. His address is 207 W. 40th St. FRANK .McGVRTHY is office manager of the Evangeline Milk Co. in Fort Wayne. Frank has a daughter at St. Francis Col­lege, another in high school, and an eighteen-month old baby. Are there any other Class babies? FRANK G. GUARNIERI U kept busy delivering babies as diiet of the OB Department of St. Joseph's Hospital in ^Varren, Ohio. Frank has four diildren, ages 6 to 20. , His daughter graduated from Georgetown Visitation Junior Col­lege last year. Frank has a son who. is a pre-med at Notre Dame. BURT TOEPP, \vh» is with Ben­dix Aviation Corp. in South Bend, has four children and one grandchild. He has a son at Notre Dame and another at St. Joseph's College. Burt's daughter joined the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul in 1956 and is now a student at MariUac College in Missouri. ART MITIGUY, who is in the wholesale drug business in Burling­ton, Vermont, has three children and four grand­children. His daughter is in the graduate school of Boston College. 
I talked to HAROLD CANAVAN in .Albany recently. Harold is senior parole officer in charge of the interstate bureau for the State of New York. He has two boys and a girl. One boy is at Ni«^ara University and the other was gradu­ated from St. Michael's College this year. 
VINCE CARNEY and his wife of Rochelle, Illinois, drove to New York following the North­western game to give a. report on the Class cock­tail party. Vince showed us all around New York City in his Volkswagen. He has a son at 
Notre Dame Alumnusj March, 1960 17 
St. Bcde College and a daughter at St. Catherine's. He also visited FRANK (DUKE) DUQUETTE in Ne^v York. Duke is with General Electric hcre-Hc has a son at Dartmouth. Vince stopped on his return trip to see HENRY DAVIS at St. Mary's, West Virginia. Henr>- has been \*ilh the Quaker State Oil Company there for some 27 years. He lias one daughter with cliildrcn, making Henr>* one of the proudest grandpas in the South. VINCE aVRNEY saw JOE HILL, '29, in San Francisco recently. Joe is with the Fir^t Western Bank. Vincc also visited JOE NETTLETON on his ranch in Idaho. 
I have reports of a number of other get­togethers. LARRY WINGERTER and his son visited FATHER ANDY MULRE.VNY, C.S.C., at his new parish, St. Pius X in Granger, Indiana. FRANK CREADON* recently sang with the Paulist Choir in JOE DORAX's parish in Wcaton, Illinois. Joe and liis wife entertained a group of them at his home after the concert. Joe is with Scars Roebuck Co. in Chicago and Frank is with Metropolitan Life there. BILL MURPHY made a sales survcv in Arkansas in November and talked to KIRWAN WILLIAMS. I visited BILL COYNE, '27, in Washington recently. Bill's son is at the medical school at the University of Mary­land, lie mentioned that he saw HENRY HAS­LEY, who lias a son at Georgetown Medical Sdtool. .NUKE HOG/\N's oldest boy is finishing his last year as a marine physician at Camp Pendleton and has accepted a residenc>' in pediatrics at the Indiana University Medical Center. 
ED MOWERY of Forest Hills, N. Y., Pulitzer Prize winning feature writer for the Ncwhousc cliain of newspapers, was awarded a special citation from the Catholic War Veterans for a seven-article scries on J. Edgar Hoover and the F.B.I. pub­lished earlier this year. Ed addressed the .\meri­
canism Committee at the /Vmerican Legion con­vention in Minneapolis this fall. 

I noted in newspaper reporU recently where HOWIE PH.\LIN, executive \-icc president of Field Enterprises Education Corp., lias taken on the duties of director of sales. JIM ALLAN has been promoted to second vice president of Lumbcnnan's Mutual Casually Co. and American Motorists Insurance Company in the Kemper organization. 
Dr. WILLIAM McGEE of Riverdalc, N. D., «as at St. Mar\'s Hospital in Rochester for surger>­in October. FATHER CHr\RLES HAMEL, C.S.C., who lias been at the University of Portland for the past 21 years, offers Mass on occasions for our deceased classmates. CLARK WALLACE goes to the same churcli in Rochester as JOE GERAGHTY and DON CORBETT. Clark has four children and is a grandfather. His oldest boy graduated from John Fisher College. Clark is a cost super­visor with the American Brake Shoe Plant in Rochester. JOHN HERBERT is manager of the Will and Baumcr Candle Co, in Boston. C/VRROLL PLVKLEY sees Father JI.M McSILVNE, S.J., regularly. Carroll has been on crutches recently with a broken ankle, so was unable to make tlic Class cocktail party. GEORGE WAGNER was unable to make it as he was in Mexico for five months at the time. Colonel LEO SCHULTHEIS is now stationed at Fort Totten, N. Y. BILL BRO\VN spent two weeks at Harvard and sue weeks in Europe this fall. He arrived in Boston shortly after I moved to New York, so I missed him there. 
LES FLEWELLING lias been elected president of the Sunland-Tujunga Democratic Club in Cali­fornia for the third time. His son is also active in Democratic party circles in California. Lcs is with the Southern California State Dental Labora­tory- Society. Please keep me advised of acti\-ities of '28 men in politics this year. 
JOE L.VNGTON wrote from Peoria that he visited RAY MULLIGAN, JOE GRIFFIN, ED BRENNAN and DICK PHEL.\N in Chicago. JOE GRIFFIN has a daughter at St. Mary's. JOE LtVNGTON's two daughters arc at Mt. St. Scholastica College at Atchison, Kansas. 
I had lunch with ED BROUGHEL who has been with General Electric Company in spedalty sales work. He recently transferred to Winclicster Electronics Co. in Norwalk, Conn. Joe has four children. His oldest boy is at Fairfield College. 
BERNIE GARBER and your Class Secretary-met with our Class President JIM ALLAN in New York to discuss '28 Class matters. 
I saw ED BURKE and GEORGE CRONGEYER at the Communion breakfast of the Notre Dame Club of New York. Ed and George arc still single. Ed Is with the Ruppert Brcwer>' and George is *vith Metropolitan Life. I had lunch recently in New York with another one of the 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1960 
bachelors in the Class, BILL MURPHY of Chicago. Father MARK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., and I had dinner with BILL JONES and his family when we were in Washington attending meetings of the economic associations. 
My annual round-up of '28 men with sons at Notre Dame is as follows: ED ABEL (CM 3), JOE BAIRLEY (AB 1), JIM ALLAN (AB 4), BERNARD BIRD (SC 3), JACK CANIZARO (EG 3), CHARLEY CASH (EG 4), DON COR­BETT (AB 4), FRANK CREADON (CM 4), BILL CRONIN (AB 3), EMMET DOHANY (CM 4), AL\RCUS FARRELL (SC 3), CHRISTIE PLANA­G.AN (AB I), PETE GALLAGHER (CM 2), ^L\X GAUTHIER (CM 1), FRANK GAURNIERI (SC 2), JIM HARTLEY (CM 1), JOE HILGER (CM 4), BILL KEARNEY (CM 3), GUY LO­RANGER (AB 2), LEO McINTVRE (AB 1), ED McKEOWN (CM 4), JOHN McSORLEY (CM 2), JOE S. MORRISSEY (EG 3), OR­VILLE MURCH (AB 3), DICK PHELAN (AB 4), ED PHILBIN (EG 2), JOE REPETTI (SC 1), MIKE RICKS (AB 3), LEO J. ROZUM (AB 3), VINCENT WALSH (CM 3), FRANCIS WILSON (CM I). CHARLIE TOPPING has two sons at Notre Dame, one a freshman and the other a Junior in A.B. I also noted that three of our deceased classmates, FRANCIS BEG­GAN (LW 3), JOHN McMAHON (AB 3) and EARL LAMBOLEY have sons at Notre Dame. Please let me know if we missed any classmates with sons at Notre Dame. 
The sympathy of the Class is extended to ROGER BRESLIN on the death of his mother on December 20. Roger, according to the recently issued American Catholic Who's Who, is still practicing law in Hackensack, N. J., and has five cliildren, ages 12 to 22. 
1929 ^^"^ Staudcr Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
The recent conference, on tlie campus, of Class Secretaries left your secretary with a fund of ideas for the future. After sitting in on dis­cussions of class teunion plans for June of 19(jO. I frankly and sincerely wish tliat it was our year to return. 
FATHER DOREMUS is celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of his ordination to the priesthood this vear. He and his associates, Fathers MATTHEW WALSH, EUGENE BURKE, THOMAS BURKE, PETER HEBERT, PATRICK HAGGERTY, THOM.\S STEINER, THOMAS IRVING and BERNARD LANGE, to mention a few, as well as lay faculty members of their age group, arc to be especially invited to be present at several re­union functions. In tlic past, some of you have been disappointed because of not being able to meet more of your former rectors and teachers. Efforts will' be made In the future to have them 
present. Periiaps it is the fact tliat I am becoming better acquainted with those who arc returning for Class reunions and get-togethers that makes them more enjoyable. Whatever the reason, the antiapa­tion is there for me. and I trust for many of you. LOUIS BUCKLEY, '28; AL LESME2, '45; LOUIS BRUGGNER, '23; FR^VNK HOCH­REITER, '35, and JOHN HURLEY, '25 —all model Class Secretaries of highly organized and ac­tive classes—have the energy and find the time to produce results far beyond that of your secretary*. Perhaps with Improved organization, and your cooperation, wc can narrow the gap. Tliose who returned in June for our thirtieth reunion "will recall signing the album for the Superior General of the Holy Cross Fathers, FATHER CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE. His graci­ous letter of acknowledgment follows: How exquisitely thoughtful it was of all my classmates, gathered at Notre Dame for the thirtieth annual reunion, to present this personally autographed precious souvenir album. I wish that I were in a position to thank personally the distinguished members of the Class. In any cose, all these signatures will recall for me the talented personalities they represent, as well as those priceless, happy student-days wc spent together under the protection of Our Lady. "Although my tvork makes It practically im­possible for me to attend the annual retmions, nevertheless I am with you in spirit. Although wc arc widely separated, the same spiritual and intellectual ideals bind us closely together. "With renewed gratitude and with the prayer­ful wish that the future will bring a great share of joy and success to all members of the Class of 
'29, I am faithfully yours, w, (Rev.) CHRISTOPHER J. OTOOLE, C.S.C" 
A funeral Mass was said in Sacred Heart Church for the mother of Father O'Toolc in December. She was buried in Cedar Grove Cemetery ad­jacent to the campus. Kindly remember her in 
your prayers. 
\Vord still gets back that our post-Navy game Class of '29 get-together of about 40 classmates and their wives and guests was our best yet. Is it too early to plan for a publicized meeting plact^' for '29ers in Philadelphia after the I960 Navy* game? Are you reading this, JOE LENIHAN, JIM GALLAGHER, GAY H^VAS, JOHN HINKLE, LARRY MOORE and JIM CURRY? 
Is there popular support for a post-Micliigan State game get-together of '29ers on the campus this fall? From JOHN P. M.\NNING, Industrial Engineer, Silver Springs, Md., we learn that ED GxVGE in Detroit had a daughter graduate from Sacred Heart in Detroit the same week end as our class reunion. Ed has a large Oldsmoblle Agency in Detroit and a Cadillac Agency in Wichita, Kansas. John Manning and wife, Frances, havt^ two sons. John, Jr., age 27 was a 1958 graduate of Kent State U., Ohio. His major was Geology. Charles, who Is six, is partisan to Notre Dame. 
Thanks to HUGH McMANIGAL, wc have this relayed letter from BERNIE KEARNS of Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
"/\s you may remem­ber, I was one of that *sclect' group of Pop Greenes' Pharmacy stu­dents and, I'm still in the drug business as manager of The Plnex Company. ^\ 
"Dolores and I have six kids from 4 to 22. Tom, the oldest Is a senior at Xavier in Cin­cinnati. Jerry is next B. Kcams 

and a sophomore at Notre Darac. Molly Is in high school. Kathleen and Dennis are In grade school. Kevin stays home to keep his mother company. We're all dis­gustingly healthy. . , . 
"I would like to hear from JACK GREY, EAKL JOHNSON, JI.M COUGHLIN, HOWARD DOLL, .MANNIE VE.\ZEY, ELI LEO.XILLE. I'd prefer .^ not hearing from any of those west side home-|[)) brew pur\-eyors who ruined my taste for beer back in the 'Roaring 20's,* " 
BILL CRO.XIN, 1250 Fifty-third Street, Oakland, Calif., wrote as follows last June: 
"Dear Classmates of '29: I had hoped until the last minute that I would be able to coincide a trip I had to make to our factors- in Dayton, Ohio, with the Class Reunion, but, unfortunately. It did not come to pass and I will not be present even though I swore I would. .. . 
"A quick run-down on myself Is that I am now Branch Manager of the Frigidaire Sales Corpora­tion in Oakland and my wife's name Is Janet ^ and we have four children: Jenifer, 15; Peter, 13;fj) Timothy, 8; and Janet, Jr., 2J4. Wc have just recently purchased a new home and arc living at El Camino Tassajara, Diablo, California. We ha\e a small guest house and if any of you are ever in the area wc want you to be sure and pay us a visit. 
"I would enjoy very much hearing from any of you and would enjoy carrying on a correspond­ence." 
JAMES E. DIGAN, Logansport, Indiana; was recently made Vice-President and National Sales Agent of Hadlock and Temte who specialize In miniature precision die castings. Jim, a faithful*^ reunion patron, has three daughters, Kiane Mary " 
(29) (Jennings), Patricia Ann (22) (Owen) and Kathleen Elizabeth (8). Granddaughter Karen (Owen) has more than her share of the family's attention. 
ELMO MOYER, STEVE DURBIN and others who roomed at 1121 N. Notre Dame Avenue, as well as most day-dogs, will recall Clarence I. Peter­son of the Peterson "Smiles at Miles" Trucking firm. Mr. Peterson retired several years ago. On January 22 he suffered a fatal heart attack. He ­is survived by Mrs. Peterson and by a daughter,!)) Mara Jane. 
JOE McNAMARA was elected Vice President of Bridgeport Brass Company in April 1959. He was recently elected to the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Law Association. Joe, former Class Secretary, resides at Pine Tree Comer, Step­ney Depot, Connecticut. He writes tliat: DAVE LEHM/VN of Juggler fame Is a success stor>* in 
-A 

An intellectual service of the University of Notre Dome­-..for the constant enrichment.of the minds '' of Notre Dame's diverse family. '
the sDbli »eTRiDITIOI 
CASUAL READING FOR r FUN AND PROFIT 
A Broker's Prospectus on Some RecentrIssiLes of Light-but-Rewarding Literary Securities 
INTRODUCTION: LEISURE READING AS AN INVESTMENT 
By JohnT. 

A V FRIEND of mine who is of a mathematical turn' of 
''x V mind once undertook to iind out what portion of his life he was destined to spend in the act of shaving.' My friend has a large face and a tough beard. He found, by repeated 
' timing, that the whole ritual from lather to lotion con­sumed an average of fully six minutes. My friend's occu­pation is such that he feels obligated to shave seven days a week. For round numbers he called it 40 minutes a week. He allowed himself two weeks for fishing trips, when he would shave rarely if at all, and came up with 2,000 minutes a year, or some 33 hours. At the time he made this study 
^m y friend's "expectation," in the pleasant phrase of the life 
-insurance companies, indicated that from the time he began to shave daily until presumably he would no longer need to do so would be a term of 44 years. At 33 hours a year that gave the somewhat dismaying total of 1,452 hours — more than 36 40-hour weeks: nine months of his working 
" life, spent in front of a glass scraping his face. " Let me hasten to say that I am not starting a crusade . for the return of the beard. I tell this story sunply to illus­
- trate the fact that all of us invest very substantial portions of our lives in unconsidered daily activities. 9 One of these is reading, of three distinct kinds. First there is the reading we do to be informed of daily events, 
, "to keep up with the world" — reading of newspapers and news magazines. For most of us this is a natural, enjoyed, and more or less necessary investment of our time. Second, there is the reading we do in direct relation to our jobs: 
• reading of business and pi-ofessional books and periodicals. This too has definite practical importance and reward. There remains the reading we do for its o\vn sake: reading for 
^entertainment, for relaxation, as a hobby, for significant pleasure. For many men and perhaps for more women, the aggregate time given to reading we don't have to do, reading that has no immediate necessity or practical purpose, may add up to far larger portions of our lives than my friend's investment in the act of shaving. 
- This investment of time — which is, after all, about. 
Frederick ~ .•• 
the only thing _we as human beings have to invest, it is not? 
— can be actually lost,,wholly unprofitable, because imcon­sidered and undirected. If our leisure reading is haphazard, done as we sometimes say "to kill time," the phrase may have a fatal accuracy. On the other hand, this portion of our lives can be in the highest degree enjoyable, fruitful, and profoundly rewarding, to our 'permanent and ever-in­creasing enrichment as human persons. The reviews in this and succeeding issues of the Notre Dame Alumnus are meant to offer varied and illuminating suggestions of books which are likely to.make you feel that the time" you spend in reading them is well invested. 
JOHN  T. FREDERICK,  professor  of  English  
and  {since  1958)  head  of  the  English  depart­ 
ment,  took  7MS A.B.  and  AM.  degrees  at  the^  

State University of Iowa. He edited The Mid­
land, an influential journal of regional loriting ' in the twenties and thirties. Joining the faculty in 1930, he conducted the CBS radio series "Of Men and Books" for many, years ^ohile on leave' from Notre Dame at Northwestern, University. Contributor of a regular columti on books to the Rotarian magazine. Prof. Frederick is author . and editor of several books and anthologies in­cluding ~the two-volume American. Literature and, loith the late ^ev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., the' English, composition text Reading for Writing. 
FICTION: LEGENDS, MYTHS AND OFT^TOLD-TALES 
By Richard Sullivan 

RICHARD T . SULLIVAN teaches creative lorit­ing as a professor of English and staff member of Notre Dame's Worlcshops in Writing. Re ivas graduated from the University in 19S0 and joined the faculty in 1936 after study at the Art Institute and Goodman Sclwol of Drama, Chicago, and free-lance writing for magazines and radio. He has published a collection of his short stories in the volume The Fresh and Open Sky; o rhapsody about his alma viater entitled Notre Dame, and several novels, including Summer After Summer, The Dark Continent, The World of Idella May, First Citizen, 311 Congress Court and The Three Kings. , 
THE ONCE AND FUTURE KING. 

M
AYBE it is true that there are some stories so wonderfully good in themselves that over the centuries they, con­stantly demand retelling. As times change and attitudes shift these stories seem to insist upon keeping up with the contemporary mode of fiction, in which, as ever, they reflect the unchanging verities of human nature and illumi­nate our common and continuing existence. 
In The Once and Future King T. H. White has taken a set of such old stories and has made them new and abso­lutely fascinating. This big book — which consists of three separate earlier published novels, one severely cut, and all revised to unite with a new fourth novel in a single extraordinary work of story-telling — deals with the ancient adventures of King Arthur and of the assorted personages who long ago surrounded him. 
Everybody knows the Arthurian stories in one form or another. Certainly none of us, reading as boys about the Knights of the Roimd Table, quite realized that something adulterous was going on between our hero Sir Lancelot and. the king's wife Guenever. Probably most of us never finished reading Sir Thomas Malory's highly readable fif­teenth-century account of the goings on at Arthur's court. Yet we all remember, however dimly or distantly, certain high adventures we once shared, through reading, with the unforgettable figures of the adventurers who once chival­rously supported a now mythical long. 
What T. H. White has done, picking and choosing among these high adventures, is to renew them in a big novel alive with w t and with wisdom. The Once and Future King is#.. a book of gripping, dramatic narrative, of bright, fantastic comedy, and of profound, immediate insight When White tells us how it feels to ride in full ai-mor upon a horse, we sweat and clank, encased in iron, at a fast trot. When he tells us how it feels to be a fish, s^vimming, or a bird, flying, we know. For this is writing which conveys exactly the impression, the very sensation, of the experience it deals with. It is also precise in other ways. Wien Lancelot and the queen betray the king they both love, this novel — in a way uncommon in contemporary fiction — .treats with delicacy and accuracy their grievous offense. They are^i rendered not as victims of glandular compulsion. but as mortal human sinners, free and knowing. 
There is great understanding, great compassion, great love, and — marvelously — great fun in this large novel. Indeed, Th& Once and Future King may sometime hence be called one of the rarest and most brilliant fictional achieve­ments of our hurrying age. 
THE ONCE AND FOTUEE KING. By T. H. White. New-York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1959. 677 pp. S4.95. 
Also recommended: 
BuLFiNCH's MYTHOLOGY. By Tliomas Bulfinch. Modem Library, Giant No. 14. New York: Random House. 778 pp. $2.95 
THE GODSTONE AND THE BLACKYMOR. By T. H. 
•) 

WJiite. New York: Putnam, 1959. 225 pp. $3.95. 
\ 

AUTOBIOGRAPHY: THE ANATOMY OF NOSTALGIA 
By A. T. Smithberger 
•> 

ON THE SUNNY SIDE OF A ONE-WAY STREET. 
A
NYONE who grew up in the early years of this century . or who would care to go back to those early years to see what a Hoosier boyhood was like will find much refresh­ment and delight in the twenty-one chapters of On the Sunny Side of a One-Way Street. Those exciting years, from Bull Moose days to the upsurge of the Ku Klux Klan, . with hyperbole at-the beginning of the account and Harvard at the end, William E. Wilson, the author, now professor of English^ at Indiana University, relives for us until 1924, when he was ready for his second year of college and "was beginning to discover, for the, first time, what it meant to be a man." ' ^ i 
Evansville is the immediate setting, with such towns as Poseyville and New Harmony not altogether disregarded. But. the general background is the boyhood of this century, the time when automobiles (with the laprobe and the "Honk, O honk!" or the "A-oo-ga, a-oooo-ga!" horn) had such names as Reo, Cole, Chandler, and Steams Knight, not to mention the ubiquitous Model-T.'At that time the Rayo bicycle was more prized by boys than the Bluebird. Then a boy told time by the sun or from an IngersoU watch, perhaps read a book from a Globe-Wemecke bookcase, listened to an 
Professor ANDREW T. SMITHBEEGEE was formerly assistant head of the English depart­ment and currently serves as managing editor of the Natural Law Forum. He joined the faculty after graduation from Ohio Uni­versity in 1925 and was awarded an AM. by Notre Dame in 1927. An authority on the essay and the Romantic Period of English literature, he has published tioo college textbooks. On Poetry and Essays: British and American. Prof. Smithberger is a member of national and state College English Assns., the Indiana Academy of' Sciences; Tau Kappa Alpha, Eta Sigma Phi atid Lambda Chi Alpha fraternities.
• 

Edison phonograph, saw a Biograph Picture — and was 
toi-tured at school with the Palmer Method of handwriting. This book is chiefly a boy's story, a story of a city boy­hood, charmingly and wistfully told. Most boys have raced -, or struggled through the ordinary experiences of home and 
school and work and play — and survived them! — but gfcniany have missed some of the unique experiences related "here. Playmates and games, relatives _ and "drummers," 
county fairs and old-fashioned barbecues are no doubt com­
monplace enough. Bat what about having a'bixtlui^r fn ' Febiuary 12, in a good DemocratSe honadiold? How ikb(mt~ having tiiree fathers? (Everyone, has at^Ieast two'r:^;tI^' . real and the.mythical. Bat who has the,chance to.diMOver, that his own father has the same name as a' character.Jn *' ' famous story by Poe?) •• W^o has lived in a "shotgun ^fiboa^T ' Or in a house with a bnilt-in. vacaam ^cl^ner? And hciw may boys had to endure a "cast-iron belly" for » yiai orW?^ ' Or have a father not be re-elected to Congress becanae he would not consent to join the Klan? - .. ' _. ' ­
' .In an easy, straightforward manner Professor WiJaon teUs us of the amusing and sometimes distressing-experi-" ences of his gprowing up, at work and at'play. This is a-. richly evocative book, with many passages of such ivit and . delight that one will come bade to them for a leaist a second '~ reading. ^ \ ; , ^ 
ON THE SDNNY SIDE OP A ONE-WAY STKEKT. 
By William E. Wilson. New York: Norton, 
1958. 223 pp. 53.75. 
\ • I ', 
Also Recommended: ' ' 
ACT ONE: AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY. "By Mosa Bart. New York: Random House, 1959." 444 pp. 
55.00. ' ' ^ 
WHAT NEXT^ DOCTOR PECK? By Joseph Howard Peck, M.D. New York:, Prentice-Hall, 1959. 209 pp. 53.50. / , - -N' ; 
CRITICISM: MASS MEDIA AND THE CAPTIVE IMAGINATION / 
'. \
By Robert E. Christin, Jr. 

ROBERT ERNEST CHEISTINJ JR., is an asso­ciate professor of English and director of the 
® University's Freshman English program. A member of the faculty since 1953, he attended the University of Detroit and has B.A., M.A. ­and Ph.D. degrees from Ohio State University. A student of American culture and literature, he is affiliated vAth the National Council of Teachers of English; the College English and Modem Language Assns., and the American 
O Assn. of University Professors. During World War U he served in naval campaigiis in the Atlantic, Pacific and Mediterranean theaters. 
THE IMAGE INDUSTRIES 

oTHE title of Father Lynch's excellent book' refers to the 
television and movie industries; industries that produce the images that in large part form our attitudes toward the world in which we live. Father Lynch's book is not another diatribe against the tawdriness of many movies and tele­vision programs, nor is it another of those books in which 
e 
the author places the blame on inass media for manyr of 
the ills of our society. Father Lynch fully approves of' 
these media, and praises many movies and television pr<*-^ 
grams. And his criticism is constructive: he elaborates pn 
major, problems and writes at length on what cui be drae 
to solve them. • -' ~ ~~-. '":_'• 
Father Lynch is alarmed about harmful effect of movies 
and television on our imaginations, on our view of reality. 
He is concerned about "the monopoly of culture" exercized 
• by these mass media, their "increasingly centralized manage-^ went of the imagination of a whole nation." To remSy^ this situation, he calls on eyeryoiie in the ~ audiences to exercise intelligence and imagination in becoming aiirare of what is happening. He specifically enlists the active support , of four groups: the artists, the creative theologians, thW"! critics, and the universities. Avoiding the usual statemoits, about art versus morality, Fr. Ljmch distinguishes dwefoDy' the work to be accomplished by each of the specialists listed above, cautioning against their tendency to interfere with''" each other, urging them to> cooperate in a-positive effort to improve our mass media. . . /" .., 
; In an important chapter on "Fantasy and Reality," the author emphasizes the need in any culture for^ some fantasy, but warns that we must always be aware of fantasy as ­fantasy. The danger presented by much of our television and movies is that- fantasy is being presented in the guise of reality, creating a confusion among all of us as to what reality is. '' "\ -' _ ' r-' 
Throughout his book, Fr. Lynch provides nomeroos ex-' amples of his major topics, and analyzes-several 'cnirent'^ movies and television programs. His examples include such-:^' 
\ ~ 

seemingly disparate items as torch singers, cigarette com­mercials, Bing Crosby, the Japanese film, Rashomon, Dante's Divine Comedy, television weather analyzers, The Ten Com­mandinents. Bells of Saint Mary's, West Side Story, I The Jury, The Diary of Anne Frank, Alfred BQtchcock, horror movies. Paradise Lost, and numerous other programs, movies, and plays. 
• What Father Lynch sees in all of these is something that the reader will see clearly once he has read Fr. Lynch's clear account, but something few readers would have other­wise noticed. The book is one of vital importance to every­one, and several television critics have alluded to it as one of the best analyses yet to appear. 
TH E IMAGE INDUSTRIES. By Father William F. 
-Lynch, S.J. New York: Sheed and Ward, 1959. 159 pp. $3.50. 
Also Recommended: 
AMERICAN CATHOUC CROSSROADS. By Walter J. Ong, S.J. New York: Macmillan, 1959. 160. pp. $3.50. 
, lyiASS CULTURE. Edited by Bernard Rosenberg and-David Wliite. Glencoe, Illinois: The Free-Press, 1957. 561 pp. $6.50. 
HUMOR: ANECDOTE AS ANTIDOTE FOR BILE, PHLEGM: AND BLACK MELANCHOLY 
By Louis Hasley 

Professor Louis HASLEY, assistant liead of the English department, joined tlie faculty in 1931 vnth A-.B. and AM. degrees from tlie University. He was assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters from 19^2 to 19^9 and was director of the Notre Dame Writers' Conference for four years. He has contributed articles, poetry and fiction to various magazines, including America, The, Sign, Saturday Review, Spirit and Tomor­row. Prof. Hasley's specialty is the literature of American humor." His wife, humorist Lucile Hasley, is tlie author of Reproachfully Yours, The Mouse Himter, and Saints and Snapdragons. 
THE YEARS WITH ROSS. . 

A
BOOK by America's greatest living humorous writer', about one of the grreatest editors of our time: this is James Thurber's The Years With Ross. . i ­
Unless you are just in from the back side of the foot­
hills, you know who James Thurber is and are acquainted 
with some of his fantastically chaotic personal experience 
essays, his fables, his cartoons and, among his short stories,, 
at least "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty." But yon might Jiave lived many yeai-s. within shot-put range of Madison Avenue and not have heard of Harold Ross, founder (in 1925) of the celebrated New Yorker magazine and till his death from cancer in 1951 its first editor. 
Ross himself was no sophisticated New Yorker to the manner bom. His birthplace was Aspen, Colorado. He worked on newspapers in the far West and the South till he arrived in New York in 1919, following two years as editor in Paris of the overseas World War I magazine. Stars and Stripes. The book is packed with rich anecdotes of Ross's encounters with New Yorker contributors like Alexander WooUcott, Robert Benchley, Dorothy Parker and Thurber himself. A blunt, conservative, naive, honest, pro­fane man, he became, in Thurber's opinion, "by far the most painstaking, meticulous, hairsplitting, detail-criticizer the world of editing has known." He felt that an editor had, metaphorically, to hold an artist's hand. The bluster the gruflfness were' real but they covered great kindness and solicitude for his temperamental stable of artists and 
,\vriters. He did not respect people who wouldn't fight back<l arid yell him down, but always, at the end of the yelling, it was, "All right. God bless you." 
Ross had, in Charles MacArthur's phrase, "the charm of graucherie." And, let us add, of naivete as'well. He could join H. L. Mencken and Thurber in a^ conversation about Willa Cather and ask in all sincerity, "Willa Gather — did, he write The Private Life of Helen of Troy?" He had to be told who William Blake was, and he once asked the maga­zine's checking department, "Is Moby Dick the whale or the man?" Some of his editorial queries fall into the near-classic category. "What woman? Hasn't been previously")! mentioned," he wrote when he became puzzled by a reference in a Perelman manuscript to "the woman taken in adultery." 
Interesting as Ross is, few will regret that the book is nearly fifty per cent self-revelation on the part of Thurber. And all of it is in an unflawed, unmannered style, one that blmds easy sophistication and mature objectivity. The humor arises unobtrusively, keeping intact the dignity of his subject in a book that is essentially a tribute to an incomparable editor, a long-time associate and a much-loved friend. 
"THE YEARS WIT H Ross. By James. Thurber. Boston: Little, Brown and Company, 1959. 310 pp. $5.00. 
Also Recommended: ^ 
VERSES FROM 1929 ON. By OgdenNash. Boston: »] Little, Brown, 1959. 522^pp. $5.95. 
THE RETURN OF HYMAN KAPLAN. By Leo 
Rosten. New York: Harper, 1959. 192 pp.. 
$3.50. 
•) 

." ' stocks and bonds in Washington, D. C , after a x-an'ed and highly commendable career in govcin­mcnl. . . . L/\RRY MOORE is a \-aIucd asset of the Na\y Department in Washington. . . . BOB SCHUL2E is with Abbott Laboratories in El Central, California. 
BARNEY J. HUGGER, formerly manager of Operations for American Airlines, Inc., in Cincin­nati, was named manager in January. 
30 YEAR REUNION Class of -30 
JUNE 10-11-12 
1930 ^^^^^^ Flunkctt O'Shaugtmcssy Hall 

^ Notre Dame, Indiana 
By tlie time thb edition readies the newsstands, the members of the Class of 1930 will have received the first direct mailing on the Thirtieth Anniver­sary Reunion to be held, June 10-12. Everyone will have been notified of the main details concerning housing, meetings, and other ofTairs of the week end. Also, the Class will have been informed about the Reunion Gift that will be presented to the University. 
Several meetings have been held on the campus involving present Class officers, the local reunion committee and JIM ARMSTRONG. The main atten-

A tion centered on efforts to bring back the largest 
" number of classmates ever recorded in one of our reunions, ^fany fellows living in different areas of the country' have been asked to scr\-e as regional representatives to publicize the Reunion and even coordinate transportation plans if neccssar>*. The real success of the reunion in June will be measured by number of class members who return for a few days of \-isiting around the campus. 
Class officers and the local committee for the re­union thought we should try to create an Anniver­5ar\- Gift to the University that would be somewhat unique and directly felt by some students. So, the plan to create a fund from which seniors could bor­

9'''o^^' \*hen they faced that last year and were strap­ped for funds. Ever>* year some seniors fail to finish when tl)c>* lack funds to get them over the hump. So, in the hope that no prospective graduates be lost for this reason, the reunion committee decided to highlight this Thirtieth Reunion by building a Seniors' Loan Fund. Tliis would be handled by the University Committee on Student Loans under the direction now of REV. PAUL G. WENDEL, 
C.S.C. While the slogan is "Contribute Thirty Dollars for the Tliirtielh Anniversary of the *30 Class," yet we hope to attract contributions larger than tlie slogan shoots for, and we will be forever grateful for smaller donations. I guess that covers 
^k about all categories. FRAN MESSICK of the ^Vssociates Investment Company in South Bend is the chairman of the Local Reunion Committee. He has assigned the \"arious txsks of the reunion to *30 classmates In the area, and he seems to liavc all spots covered. Fran's planning assures the best fun we have ever Iiad at a reunion. 
; I should not take the space here to tell all the details of the reunion planning because that will be reaching you in several separate mailings. Trj­to make plans for your travel to South Bend. Check with fellows In the area who w*IIl likely be 
fusin g the same kind of transportation as you. Tr>' to be here. It will be the best gathering we Iiave had In our reunion histor>'. 
The following notes and letters will carry much reunion information and should be of general In­terest to you. 
JOE LORDI, to nobody's surprise, was unani­mously elected to a second term as president of the New York Athletic Club. 
TIM TOOMEY, one of the Class Vceps and a ^director of the Notre Dome Club of Boston, write*: 9^' I ^"n I'col pleased with the caption of the pro­; posed drive for a loan fund for needy seniors, 
namely *'$30 for 30,** and I think if we aim our \ sl^its for such a fine fund wc should have no trou­ble making it. Wc should not discourage those who 
• want to give more than the minimum. "You can count on mc to do my share here In 
- the East. I'll keep after tite lads with postcards, '^notes, etc., and try to get an over-the-top partici­pation in the Reunion. The ranks will be thinning after the 30tli according to the mortality rate fellows. . . . 
**I have been on a tightrope since the aimounce­ment of the two nc^t* American Cardinals. I didn't kno;v whether my speaker, C.\RDINAL GUSHING, had to show up at the secret consistory set for December 14, the day after my affair. (Ed. Note: Tim was chairman of the Boston Club's N. D. Com­munion Breakfast at which the Cardinal, LL.D., '48, U"as the principal speaker. Sec story and pLx this issue. J. L.) I had engraved announcements, FATHER JOYCE coming from school, etc A prayer to B.V.M. was answered. I learned. . . Cardinal Gushing was not going to Rome. He ts a terrific man! . . . CARDINAL 0'H.\RA must have told the Boston prelate I was **lus boy," because I sincerely got die red carpet. .. . I sat - through the cloudburst in Pittsburgh (Nov. H). I took my niece down with me in a chartered Boston Club plane. Saw no one I knew except PAT CANN'Y. . . . DR. JOHN PREECE got married to an opera singer in London in October. I am awaiting de­tails. . . . 
"At the 25th Reunion I heard very favorable comment about the buffet put on by the 20-year class. They had various classmates donate proW­sions, booze, etc. Do we have anyone in the whole­sale produce business in the South Bend-Chicago area. Set up a buffet in Lyons and keep it going until the box's leave like a smorgasboard. (Toomey thinks only of eating; I've got to—I don't drink.) 
"I am sure the appeal '30 for '30 for the 30th* will go over. Get one of those short story writers on campus (DICK SULLIVAN, etc.) to come up with some unique appeal to give 30, 300 or 3,000 for the Class of '30 fund. 
"Hand out a few awards — largest family, most grandchildren, longest distance, most \*isits to cam­pus (other than South Benders), bachelors (I want to get one) who've done most for the class, etc A flyer might tell the boys who are driWng to hunt up others and bring them along. Seek out reduced airplane travel for groups of three or more. Bring tlie wife along if she won't let hubby go alone. ... 
"JACIC CLASSIDY called me. . . (one hour of gabbing like a couple of old maids). He brought greetings from New York and said ^iIKE BISHKO, ED DEMPSEY, JOHN DOL.VN, JI.M DILLEY, TIERNEY O'ROURKE, L.\RRY CRONIN and JOHN O'DONNELL were all well. 
"Keep me posted and as soon as I get the go ahead sign with receipt of first announcement I'll contact ever>-one here with an appeal of my 01%!!. 
"FATHER JIM RIZER, *3I, has been ill and is at .-Vll Souls Hospital, Morristown, N. J. Remem­ber him in prayer. My best to all.*' 
JACK (JAMES G.) O'KEEFE, from his Skyline Farm In Ulster, Pa., sent in some interesting news items; 
"A reception. . . in honor of one of our clais­maies. RE\^ ^VILLIAM E. BURCHILL, known to most of the Class as 'Bill* or *Red'. . . was held In the parish school auditorium In nearby Tou'anda, which Is not onlv the home town of Father Bill but also of FR. JLM RIZER and JIM COSTELLO Thb ^vas in another way a special occasion for the Class of '30, for you will note that the master of ceremonies was none other than our own LARRY \\'ENIGER, now Rev. Lawrence Wenlger, who also celebrated IiIs silver jubilee last spring. Father Bill Is pastor of a rural parish thirty miles east of here, wliilc Father Larry Is pastor of another rural parish twenty miles to the west. The honor of represent­ing the laity of the class on this occasion fell on mv shoulders. Also present was JOHN COLEMAN, *31. JI.M CULLEN, '28, chosen as judge for this county, was unable to be present because of previ­ous commitments. Jim won his position in a photo­finish election which was not finally decided until fourteen months after the polls closed. . . . On one trip last September (1953) I managed to get dou-n to Logansport, Ind., to see TOM MEDLAND and his fine family. A week earlier I had seen JIM COSTELLO at the wedding of my eldest daugh­ter; this was the first time wc had seen one another In more than five years. Jim Is the same dapper 
gentleman of college da>-s, perfectly dressed and not a hair out of place; the only changes seem to be a slight increase in weight and a good bit of gray in the upper region. 
"Tlie main reason for my frequent visits to the campus is that my daughter Kay Is now a junior at St. ^Iar>''s and son George is a sophomore at Notre Dame. Son Jimmy was at N. D. for a couple of years but transferred to St. Bonnj-'s to be nearer Iiomc and started his senior year In the fall. 
"Some of our class may be Interested in a \-ery strong resemblance which was first noticed by sev­eral of our younger children. 'When George arrived home with his copy of the 1959 DOME they got out the 1930 issue and started making comparisons. Could It be that the editors of this year's issue got hold of an old picture by mistake? PAUL A. O'­CONNOR of East Orange, N. J., In the 1930 DOME and PAUL A. O'CON'NOR of West Orange, N. J., In the 1959 DOME look Hke one and the same person. Relatives, perhaps? I haven*t seen Dr. Bucky, Sr., since the early war years, although one of my daughters, a nurse, saw him frequently while working in a nortliem N. J. hospital during the past few years. 
"My family Is getting well scattered. Mrs. Jack received Mother's Day presents from four states, border to border and coast to coast. We have not become grandparents yet, but any minute now. A second R. N. and those already mentioned account for the five who have finished high school. There are Still seven at home, including our four youngest plus a nephew and two nieces whose fatlier met an untimely death several years ago and whose mother is incapacitated. I feel very strange without a cou­ple of toddlers around, as our youngest is well past nine now. In a few more years, after these last seven have flown from the nest, we will probably de­vote our time for a few years to visiting our scat­tered offspring and getting acquainted with the new generation which we hope will be coming along in force by then. 
"I expect to be on the campus for several days in mid-September, just before the fall semester opens, and will try to get in for a short \isit at your office." (Secretary's note: Jack did come in and we had a delightful visit reminiscing about peo­ple in the 1930 class. D.T.P.) 
AL SHIPAOVSSE, our treasurer and Ohio cor­respondent, wrote recently: "News of the planned reunion festivities struck a responsive chord. Spe­cifically, the contemplated gift fund appears a must worthy and, withal, enduring contribution. If the powers-that-be feel my signature should be on the letters broaching the matter to the brethren in­volved. Presumably you contemplate tliat someone on the spot there will afE^ my signature thereon, alwa>*s bearing In mind that tlie *q' therein U silent like In 'billiard,* you know. 
"A protest may arise from one quarter, though; namely, ART G.ALL^XGHER, who may «cw any­thing with my name attached to it with a jaun­diced eye and forth\rith demand that the proposal be dusted off, turned over and the ed:;es carefully scrutinized. Ours is a good-natured feud dating back to the morning we queued up in front of the Main Building to register. However, in order that Arty may know tliat I'm acting in good faith, there Is enclosed a check for the ennsioncd fund. 'What further proof can he ask that my hand Is not quicker than his eye? 
".\Imost a year ago to the day, X had occasion to be in Cellna, O. While I was there I xisited \rith W.ALT BERNARD, who assured me that he was pointing for the forthcoming June rrunion with that host of now almost legendary characters who sallied forth thirty years ago (almoit) and subse­quently astonished (?) the world with their grasp of affairs. Since seeing Walt I have had the good fortune to chat brieflv with .VNDY AMAN, DAN aAN-NON, JIM MURR.\Y, LARRY CRONIN and, last and too often, the aforementioned .ARTHUR J. GALLAGHER, who resides twenty miles due east from where we live on the west side of Cleveland. He also assures me that. If he's warm, he'll grace tlie campus with his presence; If he can get a 'per.' 
"Currently I can only suggest to the committee that word should be passed around to get plenty of sleep beforehand to compensate for perpetual mo­tion engaged In when the clan gather;." 
BRO. FILVNCIS ENGLERT, C.S.C., '51, of GH­mour Academy, Gates Mills, O., sent a note to the effect that we may be Interested in knowing about the Academy, "one of the nation's leading prepara­tory schools conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross." The enrollment includes many sons of alumni, and "a substantial portion of our graduat­ing class enrolls at Notre Dame each year.** For brochures and Information, write to Bro. Francis, director of admissions. 
Our sinccrest sympathy goes to the wife of AVAL­TER F. KOLB, who died of lung cancer in October after a long illness. Walt will be often in our pray­ers in June. 
MLced condolences and congratiUatlons to WAL­TER PARENT in Santa Barbara, Calif. Walt, who lost his mother last September, has been appointed municipal court judge by Governor Brown. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 29 
1931 J^™<^ '^' ^°y'« 
902 Oakton S t Evanston, Illmois From the Alumni Office: JIM DOYLE, a headlincr in Club-Class cooperu­tion at the recent Class Secretaries Conference and still straightening out the finances of the Cliicago 
X. D. Club, is granting some of his space to the reunion classes in this overcrowded bsue, but he 
^^^^SS 
would welcome news from 
all by May in prepara­
tion for the 30th annivcr­
sar>-, a little more than 
a year away. 
Formerly a newspaper­
man, magazine writer, 
editor, fund-raising publi­
cist, etc., and for the 
past ten years a public 
relations man, RICHARD 

J. O'DOXNELL is now an account executive on the staff of M, K. Mcllott Co., Pittsburgh and Xe\v York p.r. firm, .A, resident of Crafton, Pa., and native Pittsburghcr, lie has been associated with several corporations, hospitals and charitable organizations in the area, plus the Pituburgh S>Tn­phony and CBS broadcasts of recent political con­ventions. The O'Donnells have four children. 
1 932 ^^^^ Kcnmore Road James K. Collins Shaker Heights, Ohio 

From the .Alumni Office: 
From the Land of Sky Blue Waters comes word 

that J. RrWMOXD FOX has been named vice-
president and assistant general manager of the 
\\-estern division for the TIico. Hamm Brewing Co. 
Slated to add the general manager's duties to his 
wcc-prcsidcncv* on May 21, Ray has been vice 
president in cliargc of 
sales for the Minneapolis 
Brewing Co. since 1955. 
Before that he had gen­
eral and sales managerial 
positions with the Peter 
Fox and Bosch Brewing 
companies in Chicago and 
Houghton, Mich. Ray 
specialized at Siebel Insti­
tute of Tcchnologx* in 
Chicago. 
.•\lmanac man R.\Y­

MOXD A. GEIGER 
narrowly avoided adding J. R. For 
another chore to lits crowded calendar. So Cast and 
far did Ray travel from his printing plant in 
Lewiston, Me., on his speaking circuit, addressing 
ser\'ice clubs, appearing in radio, T\'' and newspa­
per interviews, etc., always plugging his Farmer's 
Almanac, that he secnicd to be r\mning from, rather 
than for, office on liie Alumni Association Board 
of Directors. Our loss on campus, however, is our 
gain in Maine: Ray has been the "Maine-spring" 
(oucli!) of X. D. Club activity on the rock-boimd 
Coast. 
A mighty proud papa is WILLLAM T. KIR­BY. Bill, who operates a law* ofiice and a tree farm around Waukegan, 111., is basking in the glory reflected by son Jimmy, 13, and daughter Kathy, 15, since a Yuletide snowstorm panicked the Chi­cago area. Jim and Kathy conducted rescue opera­tions for businessmen, teaclicrs and \*ariou5 other citizens \nth the help of their little red tractor named Cub and a snow plow attacliment. All tliis, on top of scliool and Jimmy's normal sno\v-clcaring and paper route operations in the neighborhood, won tlicm not only the thanks of their snow-snarled community but acclaim as heroes throughout tlic Midwest iltrough a story in the Chicago Tribime, 
Anotlier Chicago lawyer, LEO SCHIAVOXE, was accorded a special honor by the Italian government for humanitarianism during and since World War 
11. Leo was presented witli the award, tJie "Star of Solidarity," by Dr. Giacomo Profdi, consul gen­eral, at the Italian Consulate in Chicago on Xov. 
17. Commended for *'many years of sen-ice toward a better imderstanding of our two countries," Leo, as a major in Army Intelligence, assisted in a plan {or treatment of Italian prisoners of war whicli was adopted at several VOW installations. More re­cently he has been identified with the sponsorship and incorporation of a fo'tmdation to solicit Ameri­can help for die care and reliabilitation of cliildrea mutilated as victims of war or its aftermath by German land mines, "booby traps,*' etc Leo was 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 
a senior honor student and president of the Boston and Italian clubs on campus when a similar honor was bestowed hv tlie Italian government on REV. CHARLES L. O'DOXXELL, C.S.C., then president of the University. 
1933 Joseph A. McCabe "^ 2215 Lincoln E\*anston^ Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to Chicago's DAX CASEY for the recognition he won from the U. S. Atomic En-erg>' Commission for his performance as director of the .\EC engineering and construction division, pic­tured in tilts issue. Dan has long been involved in Chicagoland construction business with tiie Chicago Sanitary District, Herlihy Mid-Continent Co. and as na\-al contract administrator of the Public Works Administration. A U. S. Xa%-y lieutenant in W.W. II, Dan was an all-around athlete on campus. 
Your scribe JOE McCABE was unable to make the Class Secretaries Conference and has had little time for active news-gathering after business and tremendous labors for scliolarship activity with the X, D. Club of Chicago, to be described in a forth­coming issue. He asks your help in keeping this column lively with nc\vs about yourself and class­
1 934 '^' Edward Carey 
M^-w 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 

From the .Mnmni Office: 
J. F. McXERXEY, formerly of Toledo, has been named manager of the Milwaukee brand) of Owens­lUinois Glass Company's Glass Container Division. Manager of the glass container sales branch at Buf­falo, X.Y., since 1952, he has been with the com­pany for 20 years, having worked in O-I sales in Toledo and Chicago before going to Buffalo as branch manager. 
J. WALTER KEXXEDY, some of whose travels as a public relations man were told in the last issue, has moved into politics with astounding suc­cess. In his maiden effort as a Democratic candidate for mayor of Stamford, Conn., Walt managed a Democratic landslide, sweeping tiic clt>' from the incumbent Republican in X'ovember. Walt won dis­tricts that Iiad never gone Democratic before, while his party took all the major city offices and placed 35 men on the Board of Representatives. 
From BERXIE HEXXESSV, to be for\vardcd to ED CAREY, **a few treasured incidents of the more recent past: 
"A wonderful letter from JOE CLARK ex-plaln­ing his embarrassment in the Morris Inn on re­union week end when, in encountering my cousin after my departure, he couldn't remember the name —JI.M GARTLAXD. 
"A few weeks after rccci\*ing the aforementioned letter, I had occasion to show same to Jim, who returned to Canandaigua from Boston to attend the 100th birtiiday celebration of hb wonderful dad, John Gartland. At said celebration one noted JINI GLE.\SOX and also JACK KIXSELL.A, who, after 25 years* serxicc in Peru, South America, has de­cided to return to the States \*-ith his bundle and just grow old gracefully a few miles up on the west side of Canandaigua Lake. Ali, would that the bundle were nearer to being in the closet for some of the rest of us — or is the writer speaking for himself alone? 
"Perliaps what struck the spark of inspiration for this hastily composed little missive was a chance meeting today witii our own FATHER ED 0*MAL­LEY here In ^Mbany. FaUier Ed has just returned from a junket to Europe with some of tiic mem­bers of the cloth from up around my own Roclies­ter. TIic few moments spent with Father Ed seemed like a breath from Heaven. . . . " 
Thanks for the *'luippy interlude,'* Bcrnic. Sec­retary' Carey is grateful for all notes sent to the office when, as in your case, his address is not a\-ailablc on Uic road. 
Congratulations to AXTHOXY F. MARRA, ap­pointed attorncy-in-chargc of the Criminal Courts Brancli of X'e^v York City's Legal Aid Socict>*­Tony, who took his law at Fordham, has been with the Criminal Courts Brancli since 1937 and assistant attomey-in-charge since 1952. He lives at 4704 Sixth Avenue, Brooklyn. 
FATHER JI.M MOSCOW, assistant director of hospitals in Chicago, has been named a papal chamberlain, with the title Ver>- Rev. Monslgnor, by Pope John, according to a recent announcement by Chicago's Cardinal Meyer. This is a very rare honor; most recent Monslgnori have been appointed domestic prelates. Congratulations, Msgr. Jim! ^ 
Sj'mpathy from the class to the wife and sons of 

JAMES WILLIAM BAKER, a distinguished min­
ing geologist, who died in January. Jim was highly 
respected among Canadian geologists and mineral 
explorers. A native of Buffalo, X.Y., and a gradu­
ate in mining engineering, he went to Canada in 
1937 and was associated continuously ^vith several 
mining operations as a geological consultant In the 
Canadian Xorth. 
25 YEAR REUNION Class of '35 
JUNE lO-n-12 

109C Franklyn C. Hochrcitcr 
• TW J 702 Scarlett Dr. Towson 4, Md. 
Here we arc again, gang, the second volume for ^ 

our Silvery Anniversary Reunion. This should have™ 
been our third, with one mure to go. With the 
fluid and flexible ALUMXUS publication sdiedule 
—not to mention tiie austerity program enforced 
upon us which emasculated our last trip to press— 
We find ourselves cramming three columns into tins 
ont—our second and last one before reunion. 
We gave you sixty names in the ALUMXUS 

»vhicli you received late in January'—the Xovenibcr, 
1959 issue — and found while \%"e were out to Class 
Secretaries Conference (January 15 and 16) Uiat we 
had a new deadline of January 20 for this issue. 
We are struggling to get the dope into the editor's 
hands by tlie 25th. Tills is no mean task when we _ 
have to cover 117 of you remaining from titc 207^^ 
questionnaires returned, even with the reduced copy 
We arc now permitted. 
Before we get to the revised statistics and the 

147 names, let's mention a couple news items. 
CLIFF WELSH and wife Sally added Elizabetii Ann 
to the family roster last Xovember, a tliird daugh­
ter after 16 years. And during tJie same month 
CLIFF ("JC") DUDLEY left the ranks of the 
bocliclors and took to himself wife AVilhelmlna. We 
heard about this possibility when the Colonel was 
at Ft. Meade late in the summer, but he moved 
faster tiian we expected. To both ClifFs — a large 
amotmt of class congratulations! 
You would all have been very proud of the '35^^ class last January at the Secretaries Conference. We were among tiie ''pace-setters'* to whom most of the classes looked for hints and help about class organization, - reunions, dues, program and ideas. Tliis business of being a class secretary is more often than not something of a drudgery, especially when we have nothing to write about. But the bi­ennial conference gives us a great pickup when we can point with pride to our class solidarity for twenty-five years. Let's keep it up! 
Tliirty-five class secretaries were at The Morris Inn for the conference part of whicli was attended by some of the Alumni Board who stayed over from their own meeting on Thursday and Friday mom-^^ ing. Our OUTI JIM SHEILS was among those who^^ remained for our entire meeting. We got Jim to fill in his questionnaire and also pass along a dues dicck for the total amount. 
JIM ARMSTRONG had put us on the Saturday morning program to discuss Class Directories. We think this grew out of the commotion we raised %vhen our last (January Issue) column was cut back so drastically. In many wa>-s the austerity program of our ALUMNUS Editor may have been a blessing in disguise because we have now been forced to publish a Class Directory. Tlie Directory will be distributed to each of you who returns for Reunion^^ and it will contain a lot more information on all^P of us than we could have included in the ALUM­XUS columns. 
On Fridav night we had a Reunion meeting witii DAX YOUNGERMxVX and PAUL FERGUS. At the last minute BILL RY.-\X could not make it. Somcw*here In this issue is a picture taken in our room before JIM AR.MSTROXG and JOHX G\CK­LEY joined us. The local steering committee re­viewed with us many of their Reunion plans — and believe your sccretar>-, they are terrific Future mailings, especially the Fcbruar>* one from Uie lo^ ^ cal committee, are a real project. ^ ^ 
Inddentalty, we will be back In "The Rock'* for Reunion headquarters and in Dillon Hall for resi­dence. Tliat is a first rate accomplishment in itself, for whicli we have the local committee to thank. 
Wc took with us the stencils for a third ques­tionnaire mailing, dated February 1. This ^vill be the LAST CALL with a Marcli 1 deadline. Wc 
L Would like to run our returns up to at least 250. -i"- With a little cooperation it should not be too hard , • to make. The first mailing brought in 145; the ;' Second 62 for a total of 207. The deadline is a t must because the first week in March ^ve start i working on the Directory — /VXD THAT WILL BE A TEDIOUS. TIME-CONSUMING AND EX­ACTING JOB! We w-ant you to be proud of it! ; Nou' to the. statistics and several general com­ments drawn from the questionnaires. There were three errors of which \vc know in the last reporting. ^^First of all, there were 14 men reported in the in­" come bracket "§30-35,000." This should have been ; 530-50,000. If anyone added up the total number I ' of cliildrcn on the distribution table he would have 
1 found thc>' did not come to 469, which was correct. Dorothy Frances Youngerman was reported merely as "Frances" — an unfortunate error. (We hope We made no more like that one.) 
; We think the following statistics arc correct. ' Here they are on 207 of you, and they include the original 60 reported last time. Job classification: administration—61; law—30; ser\-icc—17; sales—16; engineering—15; insurance— ^15 ; religious—10; medicine—7; banking—6; loans and finance—5; coach—J; accounting—4; funeral di­rector and undertaking—4; social work—3; architec­ture—3; education—3; dcnlistr>'—2; free lancc u-rit­ing—I; unknown—1. Salan.- classification: under 55,000—2; 55-10.000— • 32; $10-15,000—16; $15-20,000—30; $20-25,000—31; 525-30,000—16; 530-50,000—18; over $50,000-9; un­known—14; religious—9. (One religioits reported in­come. The "510-15,000" class continues to hold our largest number of *35ers. Tlie "$3(^50,0(X)" group jumped 4 and "over $50,000" jumped 1. For the first time wc had 2 reported "under 55,000." Children classification: no children—9 families; ^on e child—17 families and 17 cliildren; two children - —14 families and 88 cliildren; three children—39 families and 117 children; four children—39 families and 156 children; five cliildrcn—20 families and 100 cliildren; six children—13 families and 78 children: Seven children—3 families and 21 children; eight children—5 families and 40 children; nine children •—4 families and 36 children; ten cliildren—1 family and 10 children. That should total up to 194 married men and 663 children. Tliree of our reporting '35ers were single and 10 were religious. Incidentally, tlierc are 13 grandchildren repre­sented among those 207 reporting men in our class. 
A. \ fuller breakdown on this group u-ill appear In • - the Dircctorv-. 
How do We look for the 25th Reunion? ^Vcll. of tlie 207 reporting 165 gave us a definite "YES"; 15 "NO" and 27 "INDEFI.NITE." One of you got a second questionnaire by mistake and changed his reply from "no" to "yes" In the six-month period. Past experience has shown that wc lose Some of the men who plan to come, but we alwa>*s pick up more from among those who do not plan to come or who are indefinite. And then there arc always those who show up at Reunion who have given no indication of their plans. 

D.-\N YOUNGERM.-\X has word from approxi-Amately 20 more of you, who have not answered 
.^questionnaires but who have sent In your checks, stating your intention of being with us next JUNE 10, II and 12. 
LET'S GET IT OVER THE 200 REGISTR.\­TIOX MARK! Tlie class of '43 had more than 200 back last year — wc can do It too! 
Tills brings us to the remaining 147 names. Wc will follow the same format used by the editor, leaving the complete details on names of cliildren and their ages, firm names, present Jobs, militar>­Service, etc., for the Dircctor>*. 
REV. P.-\UL BEICHNER, C.S.C,, University of Xotre Dame; dean of graduate scliool; no word on 

^Reunion. ED BRACKEN, Englewood Cliffs. N. J.; public relations; wife Dorothy; two sons; indefinite. KEN BROWN, Miles City. Mont.; contractor; wife Roscmarj*, four sons; will attend. BILL BURK­HARDT, Akron, O.; company president; wife Lou­ise, three sons, two grandchildren; will attend. 
BILL BURNS (BROTHER FERGUS, C.S.C), Chicago, HI.; teacher; will attend. REV. ED aVMPERS, C.S.C, South Bend, Ind.; assistant pas­tor; will attend. JOHN CARBINE, Rutland, Vt.; law\-cr; wife Muriel, one son, one daughter; will 

^no t attend. JIM CARRICO, Louisville, Ky.; comp-Wtrollcr; wife Clara, one daughter, one son; will at­tend if possible. BOB CARTER, Amarillo, Tex.; 
• ph>-slcal education, department head; wife Mary, one son; will likely not attend. CHET CHANDLER, South Bend, Ind.; jeweler; wife Clara, three sons, one daughter; will be on ^ hand on local committee. BILL COEN, Alton, la.; 
funeral director; wife Cecelia, one son, one daugh­^^ter; will attend. JIM COLLERAN, Rock>- River, 
In January the Class of 1935 began nailing down details of the Silver Jubilee Rcum<m after months of preliminary planning. At the Morris Inn, comparing notes with Secretary Franklj-n Hochrcitcr (right), are Paul Fergus (left) and Class Treasurer Dan Youngennany %vho will welcome classmates on the 23th anniversary June 10. 
O.; accountant; wife Helen, two sons, two daugh­
ters; will attend. RUS COMPA, Emerson, N. J.; 
engineer; wife Stella, two sons; will be back. ART 
CONRAD, Chicago, 111.; public relations; wife Vir­
ginia, two sons, two daughters; will attend. 
REV. JLM CORRIGAN, S.J., Prairie du Chien, 
Wis.; high school president; will attend. JOHN 
CORRIGxVN, Whitcmarsh, Pa.; unknown occupa­
tion; wife Annamarle, three daughters; will not at­
tend we gather. JIM CRONIN, Chicago, 111.; con­
tractor; wife Jean, four daughters, two sons; will 
attend. TONY CROWLEY, Eransville, Ind.; man­
ufacturer; wife Lilyan May, two daughters, one son; 
is returning and possibly w*ith family. JERRY 
GUSHING, Park Ridge, 111.; engineer; wife Doro­
ihv, two daughters, one son; will attend. 
HURDIS DAUS^L\^^ Bremen, Ind.; sales; wife 
Rosalie, three daughters; will attend. GEORGE 
DEMETRIO, E\-anston, 111.; restaurant operator; 
wife Madeleine, three sons, one daughter; will at­
tend. Rev. WALTER DICK, Tanganyika, E. Afri­
ca; missionarv' prici-t; will not be back from Africa. 
JOHN DOOLEY, Birmingham, Mich.; trucker; wife 
Isabclle, four sons, one daughter, two grandchildren; 
will attend. GERRY DOYLE, Beaumont, Tex.; rice 
mill operator; %vilc Katherine Belle, three sons, two 
daughters; uncertain for attendance. CLIFF 
("J.C") DUDLEY, Paducah, Ky.; insurance; wife 
Wilhclmina, no cliildrcn YET; will be there with 
his -NEW \\TFE. 
KlERNxXN "LEFTY" DUNN, Springfield, Mass.; "lubritcrium" manager; wife Mar>' Ann, two daughters; will be at reunion with family. JIM D\\'YER, Berea, O.; salesman; wife Hazel, two sons, two daughters; will attend. FR.-\NK ENGEL, Oak Park, III.; advertising; wife Catherine, four daughters, four sons; no commitment on reunion. NEIL FARRELL, Memphis, Tenn.; paint mfg.; bachelor; will attend. LOUIS FAUTSCH, Du­buque, la.; Iaw\"er; wife Lorraine, three sons, one daughter; no word on reunion. 

PAUL FERGUS, South Bend, Ind.; advertising; wife Mar>' Lcnorc, two sons, one daughter; will be Working hard on local committee. PAT FISHER, Indianapolis, Ind.; law\-cr; wife Carroll, four sons, five daughters; will attend. JOHN FIT2PATRICK, Cluci^o, III.; engineer; wife Bonnie, two sons; will attend and maybe with family. TOM FLYNN, Honolulu, Hau-aii; lau-ycr; wife Ruth, one daugh­ter; will attend as usual with family, if daughter*s high school graduation permits. TOM FOLEY, Memphis, Tenn.; publicity and promotion; wife Helen, two sons, one daughter; ^^'iII attend. 
GEORGE FOSS, Lancaster, O.; engineer; wife Mary, two daughters, one son; will attend. BOB FORBES, Hato Rcy, Puerto Rico; insurance; wife Candida, three daughters, two sons; will attend. NOR.M FREDERICKS, Bloomfield, Mich.; coal co. prcxle; wife Lois, three daughters, two sons; will attend. JOHN FRY, Los Angeles, Calif.; engineer; wife Zella, one son; will come from coast with fam­ily. IO\RL FULNECKY, South Bend, Ind.; sales­man; wife Phyllis, five sons, four daughters; will attend. 
EMIL GAENSSLEN, Green River, "VVyo.; dentist; wife Helen, two sons, two daughters; will attend. JOHN GAINER, Alton, III.; banker; wife Frances, 
three daughters, one son; will attend. RALPH 
GAUTHIER, Allendale, N. J.; mfg. manager; wife 
Margaret, no children; undecided about reunion at­
tendance. RAY GEREND, Sheboygan, Wis.; funer­
al director; wUc Gertrude, three sons, one daugh­
ter; no word on reunion. BILL CORGEN, Wxf 
eral Point, Wis.; funeral director; wife Gladys, one 
son; will attend. 
BROTHER THADDEUS GOTTEXtOLLER, 

CS.C , Notre Dame, Ind.; high school teacher; 
will attend. CAMILLE GRAVEL, Alexandria, La.; 
lawyer; wife Katherine, sLx daughters, four sons; 
w-ai attend. RAY GRU.MMELL, South Bend, Ind.; 
federal probation officer; wife Mary Nell, one son, 
one daughter; undecided about reunion attendance. 
BILL GUIMONT, Minneapolis Minn.; mfg-; "wife 
Frances, one daughter; will be back with his fam­
ily. ELMER GURY, Peoria, 111.; lawyer; wife Mary 
B., sbc daughters, one son; will bring his family 
back for reunion. 
ARNOLD HACKEXBRUCH, Wauwatosa, \Vis.; 

engineer; wife Genevieve, no children; will attend. 
BOB HALEY, South Bend, Ind.; lawyer; wife Ger­
aldlne, two sons, one daughter; vnll attend. JOHN 
HxVLLBERG, Royal Oak, Mich.; construction; wife 
Charlotte, one daughter, one grandchild; wUl at­
tend. JLM H.\.MILTON, Racine, AVis.; mfg. prcxie; 
wife Louise, three sons, two daughters; as our class 
president will definitely attend, and maybe with 
family. 
NORB 1L\RT, Muncle, Ind.; insurance; wife Kathleen Anne, five sons, one daughter; \rill attend. VERMONT HARTER, South Bend, Ind.; school counselor; wife Virginia, one daughter; likely vnit not attend. DON H^UTRICK, Columbus, O.; in­surance; wife Barbara, two daughters, one son; at­tendance is indefinite. PHIL HEINLE, Maplewood, 
N. J.; salesman; wife Janet, three daughters, one son; will attend. BILL HEIAfE, Phoenix, Ariz.; neurological surgeon; wife Virginia, four daughters, one son; will attend. JOHN HELMER, South Bend, Ind.; surgeon; wife Eileen, three sons, three daughters; indefinite on attendance. D^VN HENRY> Birmingham, Mich.; processing co. prexie; wife Jane, two sons, two daughters; ^viU attend. REV. THOM/\S HEUTIT, CS.C, Lackland AFB, Tex.; Catholic Chaplain—Asst. Chief of Training, Cho^ Iain School; will attend. 
JOHN HEYWOOD, Hudson, Wis.; lawyer; wife Edrys, three daughters, two sons; will attend. JOHN HIGGINS, Pottsnlle, Pa.; insurance; wife Catharine, three sons, one daughter; will attend with his family. FR.\NKLYN HOCHRETI^R, Baltimore, Md.; public housing; ^vife Clara Ann, three daughters; will attend with family (despite high school graduation day before and all-night drive). PAUL HOCK WALT, Chevy Chase, Md.; administrative; wife Jane, one son, one daughter; uncertain about Reunion. 
FR.\NK HOLAHAN, WTiite Plains, N.Y.; bank­er; wife Louise, two sons, one daughter; will attend. LOU HRUBY, Pacific Palisades, CaliL; admimstia­tive; wife Elizabeth, three daughters, one son; will attend. DICK HYDE, Park Ridge, III.; administra­tive; w'ltc Ruth, two sons; will attend. 
JOE KALEY, MUton. N.Y.; banker; Avife Hatw net, one son, one daughter; will attend. JI5f K£L-
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, I960 21' 
LY, RockxiUc Centre, X.Y.; public relations and fund raising; wife Catlicrinc, one son, one daugh­ter; will attend and with family. BILL KENNEDY, Nc%f Hampton, la.; lau-j-cr, wife Eileen, two sons, one daughter; will not attend. ART KRANZFEL­DER, Indianapolis, Ind.; clicmist; wife Theresa, three daughters, two sons; will attend. AL LAW­TON, Atlanta, Ga.; insurance; wife Mar>' Patrida, two daughters, one son; will return witli family. 
ED LeJUNE, Glenvicw, III.; engineer; wife Ei­leen Marie, five sons, three daughters; will attend. JOHN McARDLE, Van Nuys, Calif.; broker; wife ^l3r>', three sons, one daughter; will attend. JIM McWENEY, Hamdcn, Conn.; salesman; wife Lo­labellc, two daughter, one son; will attend Reun­ion and possibly \ntli family. AL McGARTHY, Grosse Ptc. Woods, Mich.; insurance; wife Bcmice, two sons, one daughter; will attend. BILL (JIM) McCRALEY, South Bend, Ind.; ph\-sician and sur­geon; wife Phtlomena, four sons; 'will attend. 
JOHN MCDONNELL , Davenport, la.; adminis­trative; wife Mary, four sons, one daughter; will attend. JOHN .McELLlGOTT, Chic^o, III.; law­yer; wiic ^ViIheIminc, no cliildren; will not attend Reunion. GEORGE McGRATH, Ware, .Mass.; di­rector of athletics and coadi; wife Isabellc, one daughter; will attend. JOHN McGRATH, Scdalia, Mo.; banker; wife Mar>' Catherine, three daughters, one son; >\-ill attend and possibly with family. ANDY McMAHON, Rivereide, R. I.; accountant; wife Helen, three daughters; hopes to attend. ANDY MAFFEI, Yonkers, N.Y.; lawvcr; wife Vm­centella, two daughters, one son; vnll attend. 
CHARLIE MAHER, Miami Shores, Fla.; engi­neer; wife Mar>' Frances, one son; hopes to attend if plans wort out. BOB MAHER, Spok-anc, Wash.; ophthalmologist; uifc Betty, tJircc sons, one daugh­ter; %\-ill attend and possibly witli family. PETER ALVHOLCHIC, Kew Gardens, N.Y.; sales rescarcli; wife Ann, one son; will attend with family. BILL ilALLOY, Bcllmore, N.Y.; lawyer; wife Marilyn, two sons, one daughter; undecided about Reunion. BROTHER MARTIN, C.S.C., Lakewood, O.; high scliool leaclicr; no word on Reunion. 
FRANK M.\T.\VOSKY, Chicago. 111.; savings and loan prcxie; wife Marie, two daughters; will at­tend. BILL MEASER, AViIliams\iUe, N.Y.; high scIiool actiWties coordinator; wife Elizabeth, two 
•daughters;
 sdiool graduation prcx'ents attendance. BILL MILLER, Bctlicsda, Md.; lawyer and Con­gressman; wife Stephanie; two daughters, one son; i*iU attend. J.\CK MOHATT, Tulsa, Okla.; credit jngr.; wife Helen Virginia, one son, one daughter; indciinitc about Reunion because of no knowledge -of dates; by now lie should be among those at­tending. 

CHARLIE MONTGOMERY, Lakewood, O.; ad­ministrative; wife Mar\-, four daughters, two sons; xcturning for Reunion and possibly witli family. JIILL MOSS, Mentor, C ; ^ministrative; wife Hdcn, one son; will attend. ARNOLD MORRI­SON, Rodicster, N.Y".; ardiitect; wife Kathleen, tlirec daughters, two sons; will be back with his wife. BOB MORRISSEY, CIcvdand Heights, O.; mfg.'s agent; wife Catherine Mar>*, tliree sons, three 

•daughters;
 will attend. BILL MURR/VY, Los Altos, Calif.; administrative; wife Phyllis, one daughter, two sons, one grandchild; \rill attend. 

HERB NADE.-VU, Coral Gables, Fla.; lawyer; 

•wiic
 Mar>-, no diildrcn; will attend. JOHN NEE­SON, Bala-Cj-nwyd, Pa.; lawyer; wife Dolores, Hv'o sons; will attend. PAUL NOCKELS, Yuma, Ariz.; lawyer; wife Ruth, t^vo sons, t%vo daughters; will not attend Reunion. CR-VRLIE NOViVK, Ham­burg, N.Y.; super\-isoiy; wife Adele, two sons; will return and possibly with family. JOHN NOVAK, Buffalo, N.Y.; coacli; wife Mary Eileen, t%vo sons, one daughter; will attend and \\-itli family. 


RAY 0.\KES, Ardsle>', Pa.; sales manager; wife Elanorc, five sons, one daughter; will attend. BER­NIE O'BRIEN, Chicago, III.; coadi; wife Marv-, three sons, two daughters; will attend. GENE O'­BRIEN, Baltimore, Md.; sales and promotion; five -sons, two daughters; considering attendance at Re­union. WALT O'BRIEN, River Forest, III.; lum­ber CO. prexie; one son; will return for Reunion. MAURIE OLSON, Ancniown, Pa.; insurance; wife Lorraine, tlirec sons; will attend. JIM O'MEARiV, Milwaukee, Wis.; administrative; wife Jane, two daughters, one son; will return and possibly witli family. 
ART O'NEIL, E^-anston, III.; contractor; wife Mar>*, three daughters, one son, three granddiil­<iren; yvm attend. BILL OTTE, Coldwater, O.; ac­-countant; wife Valeria, four daughters, foiur sons; will attend. TOM 0^^'EN, Chattanooga, Tcnn.; mfg. representative; wife Marguerite, one son, one 
•daughter; will return for Reunion and prcJ)ably -with his family. JOHN PENDERGAST, Park 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 

Notre Dame law-ycrs seem to have the Northern Indiana situation well in hand, as John 
W. Schindlctj Jr., '43, of Mishawaka (seated, center), newly elected president of the St. Joseph Comity Bar Assn., discusses the association's 1960 program with the other officers, all N.D. altunni: (clockwise from left) William F. Mclnerny, '40, L '41, vice-president; Alexis T. Cholis, '41, L '42, re-elected secretary-treasurer; Edward V. Minczewski, '40, L '41, elected to the hoard of governors; and William E. Voor, L '25. 
Ridge, III.; administrative; wife .Annamay, three 
sons, one daughter; wilt attend. 
JIM PICK, Milwaukee, Wis.; ph\-sician and sur­geon; wife Elizabeth, five sons, three daughters; may attend Reunion. ADOLPHE PONS, Bel Air, ^Id.; ser\'ice; wife Katharine, tlirec sons, two daugh­ters; w-ill attend Reunion with his family. JOHN PORCORO, Fairlawn, N.J.; lawyer; wife Gilda, no children; will return with wife. DICK PREZEBEL, Wnnetka, 111.; advertising; wife Darlene, two sons; will attend. TOM PROCTOR, New York, N.Y.; lawyer; wife .•\udrc, one son; will attend with fam­ily unless permanently residing in Madrid, Spain, by Reunion. 
PHIL PURCELL, Salt Lake CJty, Utali; insur­ance; wife Shirley, two sons, one daughter; will at­tend and possibly with family. PAT QUIGLEY, Indian Rocks Bcadi, Fla.; real estate and music; bachelor; indefinite about returning. AL RAVA­RINO, St. Louis, Mo.; mfg. prexie; wife Helen Marie, two daughters; will attend. NL\T RON­ZON*E, Elkhart, Ind.; coadi; wife Virginia; one son, one daughter; will attend. NED ROW/VN, Kingston, Pa.; insurance; wife Jane, one son, one daughter; will attend. 
BILL RYAN, South Bend, Ind.; loans and finance; wife Elouise, two daughters; will dcfinitdy be there helping in the local committee struggle. MAT SAGARTZ, Chicago, 111.; contractor; wife Elizabeth, three sons, four daughters; will attend. MITCH SALEH, Dallas, Tav.; engineer; wife .\dcle, one son, one daughter; will attend. ROCCO SCHI­RALLI, Gar>-, Ind.; dty purdiasing agent; wife • Kathcrinc, two sons, two daughters, one grand­diild; will attend. ROY SCHOLZ, Baltimore, Md.; ophthalmologist; wife Pearl, tlirec sons, one daugh­ter; will attend and possibly •witli family. 
BILL SCHRODER, Atlanta, Ga.; lawyer; wife Mar>* Elizabeth, two sons, two daughters; will at­tend. NEIL SHACKETT, Pawtucket, R. I.; admin­istrative; wife Regina, three daughters, two sons; will not attend. JI.M SHEILS, Jackson Heights, X.Y.; broker; wife Margaret, seven daughters, two sons; will attend. BOB SHIELDS, dair>' mgr.; wife Dorothy, tlirec daughters, one son; will attend. JACK SHODRON, Dccrfidd, 111.; sales; wife Hden, three sons, one daughter; will attend. 

KURT SIMON, SouUi Bend, Ind.; wholesale gro­ceries; wife Tcss>'e, one son; will definitely be there with tlie local committee — how* else would we get all that GOOD FOOD? ED SIMPSON, Eranston, III.; administrative; wife Dorothy, one daughter; will attend. \nNCEN"rE SINGSON, San Juan, Ri­zal, Philippine Islands; realtor; wife Padta, two sons, one daughter; no word on attendance. FPLVNK SINNOTT, Abington, Pa.; employee relations; wife Lorraine, one son, one daughter; may not be able to attend due to family illness. 
O 

TO.M STRINGER, Dearborn, Mich.; administra­tive; wife Marjorie, two daughters, one son, one granddiild; \%ill attend. REV. VINCE THILM.\N, C.S.C., South Bend, Ind.; parish pastor; will at­tend as member of local committee. TOM THOMP­SON, Detroit, Mich.; lawyer; wife Betty, six sons, one daughter; will attend. JOE UNDERKOFLER, Chicago, III.; personnel; wife Ex-a, two daughters, one son; will attend. FRED WEIDNER, Lombard. 111.; administrative; wife Patrida, two sons, two daughters; will attend. CLIFF ^\'ELSH, Boonton^ 
N. J.; administrative; wife Sara, three daughtcrsj(; hopes to attend. S.\M WEST, Tarentum, Pa.; en­gineer; wife Rose Marie, one son. one daughter: will attend with family. LING WURZER, Grosse Pie., Midi.; insurance; wife Eileen, one son. one daughter; will attend. TO.M YOUNG, Paducah, Ky.; accountant; bachelor; will attend. 
That completes the roster of 207. Let's hope that we pick up another 50 with the third questionnaire mailing during Febniar>-. If vou have not returned YOUR QUESTIONN/URE when you read this col­umn, look it up and send it back anxivay. We will likely publish a supplement to our Class Directory and your material will be found there. ^ h 
\ last word before we put this stint to bed. Many of you have asked about bringing families back for Reunion. As a matter of fact, 40 of you have stated that you will definitely or possibly brin^ back the family or your wives. We have asked the local committee to send out a special mailing tn all of you within the next few weeks wiitdi will list the hotels and motels in and around South Bend. There are some beautiful new motels with pools. 
No program will be arranged for families, but many wives, sons and daughters have never seen Notre Dame. Tills Is a wonderful opportunity fo^^ them to compare today's campus and landmark^ with wiiat you have told them over the years. The Class of '35 has always promoted the bringing back of families and each Reunion has seen many return. The girls and the kids never Jcemcd to have gotten into the "ole man's hair" too mudi or spoiled his Reunion fun. Tlie family should not ex­pect to have you entertain them — IT IS YOUR REUNION. But THEY C.\N HAVE THEIR OWN FUN! 
If you are bringing back the family, and have not made a hotel or motel resen.-atlon — WRITI ^ TODAY and protect yourself. We are told the Re­union w*eekcnd is not in a busy season either at the ^^orris Inn or at other hostdrics. But don't take a diance! 
REMEMBER FRIDAY .MORNING, JUNE 10 IS CHECK-I.V TIME, \rith the President's Silver An­niversary Class lunch at noon. Come for the wiiole week end! See you at OUR 25th—JUNE 10,11, 12 ^ 
192 A Robert F. Ervin 
• '•'*' 1329 Kensington Rd. Grossc Pointe Park, Mich. 
By last Cliristmas wc had had a good return from our little class questionnaire and believe me, for an old, old secretary* who was about to give up tr>*ins to find column material, tliis •i\-as a real nice gift. Now my Nc\*' Year's resolution is to play this in­formation back to you so we'll all know- more about 
j^vha t has happened to our gang in the past 24 years. ^ By the end of 1959 I had received 127 replies and, although one or two still come in every week, I went over these 127 for whatever statistics I could find of interest. Occupations *vere distributed as follows: business management, 21; law, 16; sales, 12; medicine, 10; retail business, 9; engineering, 9; religious, 8; education, 8; governmental posts, 5; coaching, 4; insurance, 4; finance, 3; accounting, 3; ' arcliitccturc, 2; oil operations, 2; building contract­ing, 2; wholesale business, 2; newspaper publishing, I; industrial relations, I; car and truck leasing, 1, and K, of C. work, 1. These classmates are the ^fathers of 401 children, of whom 201 arc sons and ^200 daughters (an amazingly well-balanced group). One in our class has U children; (DR. NORV. : a\SPER), one has 10 (JOHN DesNOYER) and one has 9 (JIM SIDDALL). Tlirce have 8 children, three 7, and six 6. Eight have sons at Notre Dame. Of the 127 respondents, 117 are married, 8 arc priests or brothers, and two of our fellow la>'mcn remained bachelors. While only 54 attended our 20th reunion in 1956, 115 plan to attend our 25lh nest year if possible. 
The sur\'ey indicated that the lack of class spirit and meager news in our ALUMNUS column were of concern lo most of those who replied. Many had Asut^cstions whicit I plan to discuss soon with our "president, JIM SHERRY. At any rate, I think we're off to a nmcli-improvcd future and your class 
. officers are grateful for the excellent response. 
Now for sonic letters, news and notes from the questionnaire (it will take a few issues to catch up on all the material, but we'll tr>- our best). 
JOHN NORTON who is in the insurance busi­ness in Rocliestcr, N.Y., writes: "I received your letter and questionnaire right after returning from Notre Dame after entering our oldest son Jack; started filling it out — was interrupted and put it aside and just now found it again. 
"j\s you may know, quite a few of our class have 

9.0ns at N. D. now — JOYCE, SWORDS, DICK SCHMIDT, GEORGE MILTON, to name but a few-. Jack is in Elec Engr. and has PROF. HIN­TON for Chem. He is retiring this year. Did you know that RON RICH died Thanksglring? Wc saw him in September and he told us lie had a lung cancer that was inoperable. It is too bad to lose a good man like him. 
*'I tnist tliat >-ou have gotten accustomed to . Detroit and are keeping MOORMAN and CRONIN in line. Let's hope they make the next reunion. 
"With Jack at N. D. and Ed entering in Septem­ber, I expect lo make many trips back and forth for the next four or five years. I certainly w^ll 
^nak c the reunion in '61 and we'll bring as many • of our class as possible from here with me. 
"I can't give you much help as to improving doss spirit except that mine has improved. (I think since Jack has gone to N. D. and I have been there a few times since then.) 
"Happy New Year, Bob, and if I can help you ' in rounding up information on the fellows in this area. I'll be glad to do so." PAT TOFURI of Wincliestcr, Mass., accompanied his questionnaire witli the following: 

"As always I have good intentions about drop­; piiig V"" ^ note. I am looking fonrard to our 25th L^cunion. I had a grand time at the 20th. I was Viblc to take my wife and three daughters with me. 
"I sure would like to hear from my two old 

• friends, D.\N SHERROD and SHELBY RO.MERE. I have never seen a word from them or about them since we graduated. Ask them to drop me a line. I do hope they plan on making the 25th reunion. 
"I recently met PAUL CUMMINGS of our class in Worcester, Mass. He looks good and is with the Slate. 
*'Best of luck lo you and I do hope many of 

the boN-s drop you a line. A "I am at present salesmanager for the Frank P. ^Goodwin Company of New Haven, Conn." 
L.\RRY PALKOVIC of 207 N. Market Street, Johnstown, N.Y., urges the '36 ph>-5ical education majors to write some news. Larr>' makes a special appeal for word from JOE DONNINO and BILL SAFFA. 
BILL BAYER of Oil City, Pa., and several others passed along the good news about BOB C^W^VN­AUGH' S recent appointment as treasurer of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Develop­ment. Congratulations, Bob, and thanks for com­pleting the survey*. Bayer, incidentally, reports his son Kirby is a student at N. D. and h.is had sev­eral dates with BERT BAUER's daughter at St. Mary's. Is there anyone who sa>-5 we're getting younger? 
"Colonel" BOB BURKE of Loulsnlle, Ky., says he u'ants to attend unorganized chapel, participate in unorganized conversations, and take unorganized walks while attending our 25th. He also indicates that our unorganized "class spirit" will probably remain so. Thanks, Bob, for your comments, tve'll tr>' to get organized to refute your pessimism. JACK \\'HITAKER is executive v. p. of the \Vhi­
taker Cable Corp. in Kansas City, Mo. They have 550 employees and Jack sa>-s business prospects are excellent. The Whitakers have five children, one of whom is a junior in Mech. Eng. at N. D. Inci­dentally, Jack, tlie alumni office supplies ine w*ith an up-to-date class roster whidi I keep in a card file. If I can help you or any other class member with information, let me know. 
We hope these items give you some idea of the nuggets of ncu-s the sur^'e>' produced. Be patient, and we'll try to get most of it printed by summer. In the meantime, let's all lay plans for attending our 25th in 1961 and God willing, it should be a truly wonderful reunion. 
From the .Alumni Office: On New Year's Day the aforementioned JAMES 
J. SHERRY, JR., of Flint, Mich., class president and perpetual toiler in Flint and Detroit Notre Dame Club actiWtics, became general production manager of the Buick Motor Di\Tsion of General Motors. 
Jim has been with G. M. since graduation, ex­cept for four years of W.^V. II as an up-from-thc­ranks major, first with ChcxToIct material controls, then u-ith the home oflicc as a production engineer and assistant director of the purchasing and saK-age section. He joined Buick in 1953 as assistant direc­tor of purchasing and since '56 has been assistant to the general production manager, whom he now succeeds. Jim has had plenty of production experi­ence; he and wife Grace, living in suburban Good­rich, have six young Sherrys. 
Last issue's "Spoilight" on BOB GLVV^VNAUGH had so much ground to cover that it omitted some personal details. For more than a year Bob has been "Mayor of Kenwood" as president of the Citlzca's /Association in the Bethcsda, Md., suburb, and he is treasurer of the Eugene and Agnes E. Mc>'cr Foundation among many other social and cliariiable activities. It is also interesting to note that Bob's bank, operated on a $21 billion capi­talization by 69 member nations, unlike most gov­ernment operations, turns a profit (46 million in the last fiscal year). The IFC, with §100 million in capital for investment in pri\"ate business only, also operates on profits rather than taxes. 
Another recently spotlighted '36, BILL SIL\KE­SPE.\RE, is now president of Cincinnati Rubber Mfg. Co. 
1 Q37 Joseph p. Quinn 
* ^ P.O. Box 275 hake Lenape Ando\'er, N. J. 
From the Class Secretaries Conference in Janu­ar>' I can report that wc of *37 have a lot of work ahead to have a good and successful reunion In 1962. Between BOBBY SIEGFRIED and AL SCH\\*ARTZ I can give a complete nindown on the Oklahoma and Texas arena. Bob and JOE O'NEILL, the Midland Oil Man, participated in the local golf tournament, winning very few tro­phies, but baring a good ND Reunion. Joe made the list in NVvs Week as one of the young new­comers in the field. On a recent tour in Europe, Joe's wife became ill and had to be flown back to the States. Another oil man, CL.\Y MURR;\Y, is still located in WilHston, N. Dak., and his associate there Is LLOVD WORLEY, who is also an inde­pendent operator in Oklahoma. Clay spent a little time on racation in Tulsa. CHARLIE McNi\MAR/V has greatly enlarged his factory in Tulsa and moved • into one of their new industrial sites in the oil town. JOHN BENNETT SH.\W is moring some of that extra weight around after selling off his bookstore and drilling rigs, having one of the finest mortuaries in tlie area; he is chairman of the drive to raise funds for the largest Catholic high school in the Southwest territory- (which even includes Texas). JOHN O'HERN has been elected vice president of American Bank of Commerce in Odes­sa, Tex., and ^vill be competing with WTL KIRK, our area V. P. in the Dallas banking family. 
The Vice President of Motor Machinery Castings Co. of Detroit, ROY BARRON (father of six, even­ly divided) reported in as having been assodated with the family enterprise since graduation. This company supplies the automotive and machine tool trade. Roy has a younger brother filling in at Notre Dame until his dan starts in. 
Newly elected justice of the Fourth Munidpal Court District of Nc%v York City, \MLLL\M SHE-A crame through as the only Republican dected in his district and almost the only one in town. Bill wrote just before the election that he has a young family, boy and girl, and is getting mLxcd up with the other Shea tr>-ing' to get another baseball club in New York. Bill reports that JOE BITTNER is a prominent attorney on Long Island and that DAN HANR/VHi\N is a school teacher and insurance man combined. 
.-VL SCHWARTZ was planning a retmlon at the Iowa game, but PAUL SHEEDY couldn't make it. Paul is no longer with Wildroot (no door prizes for '62), but now represents Doan's Pills, has the same 48 states, same customers. Is on the road a lot more and still resides in WlUIamsville, N. Y. Paul has a son Brian who Is a pre-mcd freshman. BERNIE NIEZER and PARKER SULLIVAN were also scheduled to be there for the reunion. 
Class Treasurer BOB WEAVER, Coshocton, Ohio, attorney', came through with a fine report (no money in the till as yet), liring a quiet life in Ohio with a family of six. Had FR. BOB LOCH­NER as a risitor In the summer, and BOB Mc-CL.-VIN, the publication manager of Furniture Re­tailer (put out by Haire Publishing Co.], alsodn ^ ped in for a visit. McClain reported for the Chi­cago gang. AVeaver was planning a reunion with CHUCK MEYERS, Chicago attorney, at the North Carolina game. Bob will be contacting you on our plans for finandng the reunion after he and JOHN CACKLEY have a meeting. 
While at the Conference I spent some time with JERRY CLf\EYS, of CUe>-s Candy, and his large family. Claeys has one of those modem homes with everything but a good old-fashioned cellar. KARL KING dropped In for a visit after Mass. His busi­ness is Office Engineers of South Bend. On the way to the airport I stopped at JOE DRUECKER's home and almost missed the plane. Joe has moved from Kokomo to S. B. and runs the Indiana Prod­ucts Company. Joe is still tr\-ing to peddle the antelope hide football shoes that he had converted while at N. D. CLYDE BOWERS of Indianapolis just won't buy. Clyde is general manager of the Bo\v-ers Paper Supply firm, and has a son now at 
N. D. Drueckcr Is still the same operator, whether Navy or dvilian. His young son will make a good right guard. Joe's company operates from Detroit to Milwaukee supplying foundry sands, refractories, supplies and equipment. 
Executive Vice President FR. NED JOYCE, who seems to be all over the country* representing the University, gave us a fev.* minutes for a visit and roundup on the dass, getting some ideas for the re­union. Father Ned also \Tsitcd uith the dass sec­retaries and the board at the conference. 
JLM MOTSCHALL, dass sec'y of '39, reported that his bowling team has a ne^v member in HrVNK RUEN , who tosses a real good gutter ball. Jim also reports that ART CRONIN is still running the saiiie coal enterprise in Detroit. 
DR. EDWARD T. WILSON is reported on by his brother, FR. JOHN WILSON, who is the new acting head of the Foundation Fund program. Father AVilson spoke at the conference. 
Please remember in your prayers the soul of DICK Mc*\RDLE, Fort Wayne, Ind., who passed away in January. 
From the Alumni Office: CLIFFORD MIHM, a Grad School man, wrote In from Borgcr, Tex., where he's a lab supervisor for Phillips Chemical Co. and a member of several professional sodeties. Cliff married Addine CIcary in '38. They have five sons and a daughter, are active in scouting, church and school affairs, and collaborate on a column, "On the Home Front," in the West Texas Register. 
193 8 Bumic Bauer 
• ^•' " 1139 Western Avenue South Bend 25, Ind. 
Copies of the Des Moines Register carrying NICK LiVMBERTO's reporting of Nick Khrushchev's comballing in Iowa last fall did not arrive in the nick of time to make the last issue of the .-Vlumnus. But pictures of Nick K. and the prose of Nick L. prove that both Nicks had a fidd day In Iowa's 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1960 23 
cornfields. Marginal comments on pictures showing Lambcrto looking over K's shoulder included, "We don't have to fertilize the fields of ltyW3i anymore nou- that tiic Russians have left. . . . Tell CHUCK SWEENEY I think I can lick Krushchev in a dark alley, espcdally after my experience as his room­mate. K's bodyguards were rough. Tliey elbowed and shoved if you got near the guy — and I did." 
Top winter news was the election of JOHN O'­CONNOR, our fonncr class president, as president of the Alumni Board in Januarj- and at the same time the election to the board of BILL **T-Bonc" M.AHONEY, the old track star and coacli who re­cently won the largest personal liability damage suit in .Arizona's historv-. Bill is managing the Kcnnedy­for-Prcsidcnt campaign in Arizona and, though he's missed all the past reunions, is planning on making our 25th. O'Connor said he would try to make it too! DICK BOWES, with the N. D. Foundation, managed the O'Connor campaign. 
Good tax news!—I think. Big JOHN M. SUL­Lr\'AN, wlio just moved his la^^- practice to St. Paul, Minn. (1st Nat'l Bank Bldg.), from Wash­ington, D.C., appeared as a panelist in the De­cember hearings on income tax reform. John was with the Chief Counsel's OfScc of the Internal Revenue Ser\-ice until 1958 and has been doing some writing for Mcrten's Law of Federal Income Taxa­tion, Ta.x Management Service and the Tax Law Renew. John*s coming up fast, family-wise too, with four cliildren now, the oldest being 514 years. 
From out of the deep silence of the great North­west came word from FRANK LARWOOD and JERRY KANE. Larivood, 3925 Lon Oak Rd., S.E.. Salem, Oregon, is in the transportation department of the Public Utilit>- Commission of Oregon after 17 years with the Southern Pacific Railroad. Frank has been admitted to practice as a rate analyst be­fore the Interstate Commerce Commission and is on the national publicity committee of Delta Nu .-Mpha Transportation Fraternity and president of the Salem cliaptcr. Frank has seen TO.M HUTCH­INSON, w^io lives at Bend, Oregon, with wife and 8 children and sells hcax-y hardware for Moty & Van Dyke Co. It's run by GIL MOTY, '36, whose oldest of 3 girls is a senior at St. Mar\-'s this year. Frank says KEN KIRBY, '40, buys lumber for Southern Pacific R.R. at Portland and that ED O'MEARrV, grad student in '39, is city editor for the Portland, Ore., Journal. The Lanvoods have a girl, 16; boy, 13, and girl, 2. Frank would like to know where his Sorin-sub roomy REDMJ\ N DUGGAN is diplomatizing, also wiy PHIL KIRCH and TOM SHEA are no longer journalists. Prob­ably because they can't write, as e\'idenccd by the amount of news sent in by them to tliis column. 

JERRY KANE still lives in Seattle, tliat is al­most. Jcrr^' flew around tlic world last year and made other flights to evcr\^^•herc but South Bend. Had a letter from JOHN PLOUFF in Detroit, where he represents Sinclair as he did for two vcars in Milwaukee and another two in Green Bay before last fall. John ran into TOM Kx\V/\N­AUGH as the landlord's attorney when he signed a lease on his new home. *'I still don't know whicit side he represented," quipped John. John and wife were down for the Northwestern game, as were Ashtaljula's most eligible bacliclor, Jx\CK MAHONEY; CHARLEY DUKE all the way from New Oricans, guest of DON FISHER; PHIL KIRSCH and Father BILL MAHONEY, whom I didn't get to intcnicw; LEN SKOGLUND, who looked 6t enough to take the field, and H:VNK HUMPHREY, the old Texan, now working for Globe Industries in Dayton. 
Seen at the Scene: (North Carolina) J.ACK BOND, who is in construction biz near Cincinnati; Father JOE RACE from Milu-aukce, who also made the Na\-v- game; (Na\y): FRfVNK DELANEY, the cookie king of Iowa; BOB McGR/VTH from Chica­go; JOHN BUCKLEY from Midkind, Tex.; Dr. JOHN RIEDER, Great Lakes, who was \isiting JACK MOULDER in Soutli Bend; D.\N GIBBS, the old pole \'aulter, and ED BRENNAN from Paw Paw. Mich. /Vt the Football Banquet, •i\'atching JOE KUHARICH do a good first-time appearance at the head table, were JOHNNY MURPHY, CHARLEY BOROWSKI, DON SMFFH, DON HICKEY, CHARLEY C/VLLAHAN, JIM BE.\UD­WAY and CHUCK S^\'EENEY. 
The South Bend chapter of the class of '38 had its annual New Year's Eve party in the Mishawaka Sewage Disposal Plant Recreation Hall. Despite the location (or maybe because of it—to prove we can go through anNthing for our classmates) the CHUCK SWEENEYS, ED CRONINS, NELSON VOGELS, LOUIE ^VNDERSONS, CHARLEY BOR­OWSKIS, JIM L.\HEYS, DON SNHTHS, ED HA­GERS, DON FISHERS, JOHN MURPHYS, JIM BEAUDWAYS, CL.\YTON JODONS and BURNIE BAUERS sho\vcd up. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, March^ 1960 
Change of Scenery department: PHIL KIRCH from Davenport, Iowa, to 4850 James A\'enue, Ra­cine, AVis.; BRO. ELIGIUS (RUSCIK), C.S.C, from India to Archbishop Hoban H.S., Akron, 
O. (almost around the world); DICK SCANNELL to 159 N. Cedar, Fairfield. Conn, (almost around the comer); TONY SULEWSKI to 12 Mallard Cove, Huntington, N.Y.; LARRY LARKIN to Box 631, Red Bank. N. J.; JOHN TANGNEY to 836 N. Merrill Park Ridge, III.; ED HICKEY from South Bend to 4819 N. Anita, Milu-aukce. ^Visc. 
A sad note to end on: the father of our class­mate. Father THOMAS J. McDONAGH, C.S.C died in Januar\'. Please remember him in your prayers. 

Whicli brings up the question. Would the class of '38 like to establish a fund out of which Masses for our deceased members could be said? If so, some sort of dues or \*oluntar>' contribution ought to be set up. We have a treasurer, BILL RILEY, but no treasury. Let's put Bill to work. Send in your ideas on the subject, or coin, cither to me, if the former; or to Bill at 4302 Magoun, East Chicago, Indiana, if the latter. 
From the Alumni Ofiicc: 
Tlie aforcmcnu'oned JIM BEAUDWAY has been 

named president of the South Bend Chamber of 
Commerce, while JIM LAHEY now heads the city's 
Camp Fire Girls Council. 
RED SMITH, '27, used research proridcd by 

sportsflack Callahan to discuss "what becomes of 
old guards" in his s>'ndicatcd column, a whimsical 
treatment of Coach JOE KUHARICH, Stanford 
alumnus JOE RUETZ, G-Man HARVEY FOSTER 
and Father JOE RACE. 
1939 J^^^ ^- ^otsc^i 
Singcr-Motschall Corp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 

From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to JOHN J. GRIFFIN, JR., for 

his recent investiture as a Knight of the Equestrian 
Order of the Holy Sepulchre, conferred by Bishop 
Gorman of Dallas-Ft. Worth at the Cathedral in 
Dallas, Te.x. Jack, executive \ice-president of the 
General Mortgage Co. of St. Louis and a rice-
president and director of the Bank of St. Ann, has 
served the N. D. Foundation in eastern Mbsouri 
since 1953. Tlie Grifiins have four children. 
WALTER H. JOHNSON, JR., Capital Airiincs' senior vice-president for marketing, has been elected cliairman of the marketing development ad\'isor\* group of the Air Transport Assn. of America. \ native of New York and 20-ycar airline veteran, AValt lives in McLean, Va. 
NEAL P. COCHR/\N has moved east from Colo­rado and now lives at 10 Mt. Olivet Blvd., Fred-crick, Md. 
20 YEAR REUNION Class of '40 JUNE 10-11-12 

1 940 J3™<^ ^ - Brown 
625 Madison Ave 
New York 22, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
Secretary JIM BRO\\'N hasn't forgotten the ques­tionnaires or his pledge to keep you informed, but he's relinquished the space in tlib cut-dou'n issue for a few reunion scoops. 
With the local planning of Treasurer DICK BURKE and the national conni\*ancc of Brown, President JIM DONOGHUE and the vice-presi­dents, PHIL SANDMEIER, WALTER FLE.MING, JOE THESSING and JIM METZLER, the 20th Anniversary is bound to be the biggest and liveliest yet. Burke, the Univcrsity*s cliicf accountant, is busy amassing a slush fund (or "lush" fund, if you like) for vintage and victuals and guarantees a tN-pical "Life Begins at '40'* time (i.e., conveni­ence, conversation and conriviality at the mxximum; sobriety, soul-searching and circumspection at a minimum). 
A bit of a scufllc has developed with I935's D.AN YOUNGERMAN, "BISHOP" HOCHREITER et al., over the use of the Rocknc Memorial Lounge as a dining facility. Both the 20- and 25-year Classes claim they got there first. ('*Bon Homme" RICHARD BURKE was crafty enough to get his request in writing — and notarized, yet!) BuP ,uP JIM ARMSTRONG—a Greater Compromiser than Dan'I Webster or Hcnr>' Clay ever thought about being—will arrive at some Solomon-sage decision, acceptable to both battlers, that will have the '*Rock" rockin' 'round the clock. 
Remember, it's June 10-11-12. Be there! 

Reverend L/\WRENCE IR\VIN FERGUSON, rector of Holy Trinity Episcopal Church, Dallas, Tex., sent in this note: "I would that I could at­tend the reunion this year, but I am afraid I can­not. We arc in the midst of a building campaigj^\ for a new churcli; and, besides this, my Bisho" has been urging me to go to England for a sum­mer's study, which I shall do if the building is begun. However, I will be with the Class very much in spirit if not in body. It hardly seems pos­sible tltat 20 years have sped so quic!:ly. 
"The last week in October, my Bishop sent me to a religious affairs course of the Office of Civil Defense Mobilization at the Staff College at Battle Creek, Midi. \Miile I was there I ran into Prof. MAURICE PETTIT, who taught me many courses in political science. He is now working lor the OCDM. ^,} 
"I also ran across BILL CISSNE last spring. Hi ^ mother became ill while traveling through Dallas, and I found her in the course of my hospital calls. Bill came down to get her, so I had a cliancc to sec him once more. 
"My Christmas card to FATHER HAVEY was returned marked "deceased." I am sorry to hear this as he was a dear friend of mine and of my family." 
Back in November DOUGLAS A. BANGERT, group operations officer at tlic Marine Air Station in Beaufort, S.C., was a happy man as Mrs. B. (the former Dorothy Haus of N.Y.C.) helped the 
C.O. pin en the eagles of a full colonel. In th ^ 
W.W. II battles for Guadalcanal, the Marianas an V Okinawa, and later in Korea, Doug has won the D.F.C., Air Medal, Presidential Unit Citation, Asiatic Pacific with three stars, etc The Bangerls live in Laurel Bay, S.C. 
Just before Christmas SAM B02ICH, with Hum­ble OiPs butyl plant in Baytown, Tex., u-as named as co-inventor in a U. S. Patent for another petro­ciicmical process. Sam, a chem engineer and for­mer Air Force meteorologist (weather officer, that is, students—not a meteor pilot), and Mrs. B. have been in Baytown since '46. 
Pray for RICHARD J. PHILION, who will have to skip tiiis reunion for the millennial one later otw Dick died back in August in Madison Heights, bu 9 notice came after the last couple of issues. Sym­pathy to his widow. 
1941 J^uncs F. SpcIIman 7 East 42nd St. New York 17, N. Y. 
From the .\lumni Office: JERO.ME J. O'DOWD took office January I as city attorney in Fort Wa>*nc, Ind., heading up tlic legal staff of the ncwly-clected administration^ Jerrj' is a thriving attorney and a fonncr mcmbnP of the Indiana Legislature. As a gunboat com­manding officer in W.W. II, he was in five Pacific invasions, winning the Na\y Cross, Silver Star, Presidential Unit Citation, etc. Active in x-arious Bar Assns., vet's organizations, Churcli and service clubs, Jerry is an ardent Democrat, Fourth Dis­trict organizer and fonncr sccretarj* of tlie Indiana Young Democrats, past city Demo chairman, club president, etc The ROBERT A. MEYER family, Bca, Rob and Randy, left Casper, A\"yo., for Africa before Christ­mas. Formerly an attorney for Ohio Oil, Rob will represent the Oasis Oil Co. of Lib\-a, P.O. Box 3 ^ on the romantic shore of Tripoli, Libya, Norui .Africa. (That's pretty far from the Halls of Mon­tezuma.) It's a little late, but Rob wanted us to relay Christmas wishes to his Class and Law Scltool buddies. He leaves a thriving N. D. Club that lie helped to reorganize in Wyoming. Washington State Reformatory- Superintendent ERNEST TIMPANI (a "three-time loser" at N. D., in his own alumni's parlance: LL.B. *42 and M.S. *50, on top of his A.B.) was heaped with glory in late November, according to a feature story in tli ^ Seattle, Wash., Post-Inteltigcnccr. The State Cit ^ zcn's Council, an organization connected with the National Probation & Parole Assn., with a reputa­tion for being sharply critical of state institutions, praised Ernie's work in improving the reformatory over the past two years as "fantastic, impressive and axceptional." Tlic cliairman had been "sorely troubled by idleness in the institution" on a vis\l three years ago. **But the change has been fan­
."tastic,** he said. "\\*c have seen an impressive program." All but a handful of nearly 600 in­mates are employed in variotis factories and trade shops or attend school or take commercial art les­sons. The barber trainees have received top grades in taking state examinations. The cells arc painted and immaculate, and Ernie said that some of the cleanliness has *'nibbed ofF' on cvcrj'body. The turnover in custodial staff has been reduced by in­creased morale and pay, merit system, etc Family visits and correspondence with inmates is encour­
^:igcd, and a gym h being built to boost morale 
•^evcn further. Ernie is struggling u-ith other prob­lems like lo^v pay for highly trained counselors and the need for a permanent chapel. The end of the story is very revealing: "Timpani took the praise with humility. He said it should be shared among the 260 staff members. 'Just picture me running the place all by myself,' he said. With tliat he stopped to offer a light to an inmate and then opened a door for a prisoner who was carrying a tray of dishes." 
A1 942 WiUiam M. Hickcy 
V*' '^ ^ 3333 West 47tli Place Chicago 32, lUinois 
I have a nice letter from JOE HR.\CHOVIC 

; <20I East Blvd. Xorth, Rapid City, S. D.) with a ver\' interesting recap—and notice the inritation to all of us. Joe entered the senicc of his Uncle Sammy 
.; two months after his bus. ad. degree and spent four years mostly overseas in England, France, Switzer­land, etc. Back in the U. S. he went into business with a friend, sold cut after a year and took a 
•Job as an accountant with a construction firm. Joe continues: 
9 "On Nov. 6, 1W8, I married. Then in 1951 I -went into the motel business, which has proven very successful. I am sole owner of the Modern City Motel in Rapid City. . . a 'Triple .V motel. . . . sole local member of the Congress Diners Club. My units arc located on Highways 14 and 79, equipped with every modem facility. If you ever get out our way do drop in and let's get ac­quainted. "We have two children, a son Jay (5) and a daughter (V/i) whom we named Dehra Kay. My wife Rose is a fine person and a great help to mc in my business as well as a wonderful wife and mother." ^ Also I have news that J. J. McFADDEN of our ' class is a commissioner of the Department of Labor of the City of New York and is serving as chair­man of the mayor's committee on the exploitation of workers. We are happy to sec this fine appoint­ment for Jim. 
We got news of the passing of JOHN J. RID­LEY in Pennsylvania last summer, and DOUGL.-\S 
F. HALEY, JR., one of our architects, died in Garj", Ind., January 23. Father TO.M O'DON­NELL has celebrated special Masses for them. 
From headquarters of the 354th Tactical Fighter Wing of US.AF at ^^yrtle Beach, S. C , comes word on one of our original pre-mcds, COL. FR.ANCIS 
AS. "GABBY" G.VBRESKL The fonner hedge-hop­ping fighter pilot is now commander of four jet squadrons at Myrtle Beach .XFB. One of the all­tiinc "aces," he has 40 "kills" to his credit in 
•W.W. II and Korea. Frank and his wife, the for­mer Catherine Cochran of Prairie du Chicn, Wis., have nine children, pictured elsewhere, and live in both sides of a duplex on the base with a sign out front—"The 11 G's." 
GEORGE J. KELLY has been named director of the American Bankers Association News Bureau in New York. He will continue his responsibilities as assistant director of 
^ the News Bureau and 
^director of information of the Department of Gov­ernment Relations at the 
A.B.A. Washington office. George is a fonner na­tional public relations di­rector of the American Legion. 
Another Air Force man, MAJ. JOSEPH H. RA­GOLIA, was awarded the 
^Commendation Medal by 
"the Secretar>' of the -Air Force in December. Joe is on tlic inspector gen­eral's staff at headquarters of tlic Air Training Command, Randolph AFB, Texas. The medal was a\\-arded for "outstanding service and devotion to duty." Joe has a master's degree in education from Rutgers. Married to the former Miss Doro­thy Warner of Florence, S. C, he has four sons: 
^James, 15; Thomas, 9; Joseph, 5, and David, 2. 
1943 Jack Wiggins 
• '^' ^ 5125 Briggs Ave. La Crcscenta, Cal. 
From tlic /Uumni Office: Secretary JACK >VIGGINS, U"ppcd off on the shortage of space in this issue and with little but Christmas cards to report on, will hoard his news until summer. Meanwhile, write! On December 30 the Spokesman-Review of Spo­kane, Wash., reported that Inland Power and Light Co. had named VINCENT P. SL.-\TT man­ager of the electric cooperative. A licensed profes­sional engineer, Vince has been chairman of the Employ the Ph>-sically Handicapped program .ind district governor of the Toastmasters. He lias re­ceived an avs-ard from the Northwest Public Power Assn. for outstanding engineering achievement. 
1944 George A. Bariscillo, Jr. ^ 515 Fifth Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 
Tliis past January your class scribe attended the biennial Conference of Class Secretaries at Notre Dame in conjunction with the midivintcr meeting of the ^Vlumni Board. The tlirec-day conference produced many interesting discussions and enabled class representatives to exchange ideas on all phases of class activities. AVe had an opportunity during tlie week end to meet ^vith Chicago area Vice Presi­dent BILLY KENNY and Class Treasurer TOM ROLFS, ^v-ho fleiv in from \Visconsin. We had hoped to meet with Class President JOHN LYNCH, but he recently changed positions and was in the throes of moring his family from South Bend to Framingham, Mass., where John is now with the Pcrini Corporation as managing editor of the Pcrini News, house organ for tlie company. 
We have a progress report from Lynch on the class survey whicli he is completing. It should be ready for distribution in the near future. John was in Boston for the Noire Dome Communion breakfast rccentlv and ran across BILL O'BRIEN, HENRY (BERNEY) PYNE and P.VUL Lr\LLY. Before leaving for Framingham, the L\'nclics enter­tained CHUCK P.ATTERSON and HAL HALEY and tlicir spouses after the Southern Cal game and had a visit from DUKE LEr\RY and wife, Pat, with five of tlicir youngsters last summer when the Lear>*s were en route through South Bend to Rice Lake, Wis. 
Eastern Vice President BILL A\*ALDRON writes that he and his spouse recently had dinner with JACK \\'HITELY and his wife in New York. Jack is in the overseas operation of the Grace Steamship Lines. Bill abo informs us BOB THUM.M and family visited him at Bill's summer place last year in fUlcnhursl, N. J. 
Christmas brought greetings from far-flung class­mates, including the following: 
BOB MARTIX.V, who is Project Engineer of Gil­fillan Brothers, Inc., in La Habra, Calif. . . REV. MARK G. McGR^VTH, C.S.C., who is with the Holy Cross Fathers at their scliool in Santiago. Chile. . . DICK LEON, ^vho sends his aimual greetings to the class from Mexico City. . . and faithful correspondent JOE NEUFELD, who was recently involved with the Cliaritv Ball in Green Bay, ^Vis. His ^vife and ^\'ALLY CHRIST.\L\X's wife were committee chairmen. 
Wc had an interesting letter from P.VUL O'CON­NELL, (Kalamazoo, Midi.) reflecting on our suc­cessful 15th reunion last June. Paul has mail regu­larly from DR. PHIL CL^VRKE in Denver, but looks for word from the likes of JOHN BRIGHT, TO.M KELLY, E.\RL ENGLERT, JLM CON­ST.VNTINE, PAUL MARIETTA, JOH.\ KUHN, etc. (aforementioned please take note and reply). The class extends deepest sorrow and prayers to Paul on the recent loss of his mother. Deepest s>'mpathy of the class is also extended to BOB G.AL\'1N, whose father passed away in November. 
BILL KENNY had several interesting stories to relate about his experiences last summer. Seems that the Kennys, the ED DUNIG.\NS and J.\CK SEGERSONS rented a home in Long Beach, Ind., and spent a "qiuct, restful" summer \'acation with their 13 (count 'em) children. Bill is \rith Patten Tractor and Equipment Company in Hammond, Ind., and reports often seeing BOB McBRIDE who also works out of an oflicc in Hammond. He met MATT SULLIViVN, in from Washington, D. C , at the Northwestern game last fall. Bill passes along news that JOHNNY O'ROURKE is now head buyer for Marshall Field & Co. in Chicago and that JACK WrrOUS has five young ones and a busy law practice in the Windy City. 
The editor of the ALUMNUS has set the follow­ing deadline dates for ALUMNUS copy for the balance of the yean &(ay 13, August 25 and Ocfeo* ber 15. Numerous publication problems and com­plications have caused unforeseen delay in mailmg recent issues of the magazine, but we were-assured at the Class Secretaries Conference that e\'ery effort is being made to distribute future issues on time. To assist your class secretary in meeting the fore­going deadlines, class members are urged to have information in my hands a week in advance of eadi deadline. Rather than depart from tradition, may we again close this column with the usual, urgent appeal and request that you sit dou-n today and send along a few lines of news concerning your­self and other classmates you've seen or heard from recently. It would help me considerably. 

From the xUumni Office: A "Spotlight Alumnus*' three years s^o, BILL LA\VXESS has been so busy since then that a brief summary may be in order. On January 1 Bill became the youngest Supreme Court judge In Xew York State. Formerly he had been president of the Buffalo Common Council, the youngest man ever elected to the post. He was the city's yoimg­est corporation counsel at 32 and president of the state assn. at 33; was appointed by the gover­nor to a committee to revise the state constitu­tion; was named the state's "Man of the Year" in '57; helped establish the Niagara Frontier Port Authority for the St. Lav.'rence Seaway; won 
W. Lawless j-j^^ parking, airUne and harbor improvements for Buffalo; organized a citi­zens committee against salacious literature, "law for lajTnen" and bar review courses and a program for giring university students experience in munici­pal departments. Bill's a Navy vet of the Guam, Soipan and Okinawa c:ampaigns and Korean occu­pation. Director or member of more than a dozen organizations (civic, religious, cidtural, vets and cliaritoble). Bill has had to leave his practice as a partner in Lawless, Offeimaim, Fallon and Ma-honey. He and u'ife Jeanne have eight children, evenly divided. A Democrat in predominantly Re­publican territory. Bill has won bi-partisan support in spite of his party and surname^ 
.\ salute also to EDWARD C. STEINER, elected president for 1960 of the Dajton .Area Board of Realtors, a thousand-member professional organi­
zation ^vitli headquarters in a new office building of its own. iVfter ten years in the game Ed op­erates his own real estate and general insurance firm, Steiner Realty Co., in his own building in downtown Dayton, Ohio. Like BUI, Ed is a U.S. Navy veteran and also, with his wife Judy, has four sons — Edward, 15; Tom, 14; Steve, 12, and 

E. C. Sterner p^ter, 2 —but he's only recently entered the daughter business with one­year-old Mary Alice. Like Lawless in Buffalo, Ed Steiner has been extremely active in the Dayton, N- D., club. Twice elected president, he is peren­nially (and presently) on the board of directors and was selected as Dayton's N. D. Man of the Year in 1952. 
We're a little late in printing an announcement by FREDERICK A. EICHORN, JR., chief chemist at Portland Cement's Trinity Division, Dallas, Tex. On November 26 at Holy Catholic Trinity Churdi, Dallas, Fred was married to Miss Lucille Crimmins, a local girl and a graduate of S.M.U. The Eichoms honeymooned in Florida. 
15 YEAR REUNION Class of '45 JUNE 10-11-12 
Al Lesmcz 

1945 
122 TuHamore Rd. Garden City, N. Y. 

HERE IT IS!' This Is the time for the 15-year reunion. If yoa 
Noire Dame Alumnus, March, I960 
v^-ant to be part of the FUN, and part of the GANG, this is it!! June 10, 11, and 12 is just around the comer. Those who came for the 10th Reunion will all be there; if YOU missed that, you owe it to US to be there for the 15th. Approxi­mately 90 of your class buddies ^^'ill be there, so be sure to plan for it. We've put a lot of work into it and it will be packed with good times. 
M\' L.-\ST COLU.\I.\ This column, men of M5, represents my last one for the class. After 10 years of this pleasant dut\', because of tremendous pressures from hca^y work loads at Spcrr>'*s, at home, and at evening scliool i«4iere I'm ivorking toward an advanced dcsree. your Sccrctar>* is refusing the nomination for five more years. Consequently, the class will Iiave a chance to vote for a new class secretary on a slate to be presented at tlie reunion. My last BIG efTort ^vill be this 15-ycar reunion. Come out to that affair to help us all enjoy the re­union and to help me bow out gracefully. 
CL.\SS SECRETARIES COXFERE.\CE Your class secretary Avas fortxmatc in being in­vited to the University for JIM ARMSTRONG'S Secretaries' "Reunion". . . a function whicJl has proved- most beneficial to class columnists. Sucli problems as class records, gatlicring ne^v's, budgets, class officers programs, questionnaires, reunion planning, and a horde of administrative details are made clearer and workable by these friendly ex­changes of ideas by class experts in each field. JIM ARMSTRONG, JOHN LAUGHLIN, JOHN CACK­LEY, ALLAN POWERS, and several others from the University staff were on hand to help out, along Anth the Alumni Board. 
SEASON'S ENJOYMENT It is always a pleasant and nostalgic experience to receive the abundance of cards and letters cxcry Christmas from points both near and far. For a fc^v" moments ever>* year our minds run back through the years to relive the memories and friend­ships. Included among this vcar's well-^ishcrs were: BROTHER ROBER T BELIARMINE, C.S.C; REV. EDWIN KADZIELAWSKI, C.S.C; REV. ED HENNESSY, C.S.C.; REV. MARK G. McGRATH, C.S.C; REV. BILL BEVINGTON; BROTHER IS.A^VC JAGUES MOT2, C.S.C.; REV. DON TRACEY, JACK BOWEK, J. D. USINA, FRED BRE.MER, TONY EARLY, ROBERT AUR­SKE, ED LaROCQUES, ART EDWARDS, BILL MOORE, JIM CLYXES, JR.; BOB ERKIN. TOM MULHERN, BUD GOTTA, PHIL MARTIN. BILL SHEA, REM RONER, LUIS BELTRANENA, JACK a\LL.\GHAN, TOM BERGIN, TOM Mc-a\UGHEY, BOB WILLIA.MS, VINCE GUSHING, JOHN HOSBEIM, CHUCK WOLF. PAUL W. SMITH, GEORGE DESPOT. C. JAMES PARIS. HARRY RYAN, JI.M DONNELLY, BOB GOULD, DICK SADOWSKI, JOHN MEYER, JOE >VURZ­LER, CHUCK SARTORE, and I^\RRY RO.MAG­OSA. 
DID YOU KNOW TH,-\T. . . DAVE CHAMPION has moved from Mexico to Cleveland. . . tliat Dave's new residence is between Har\-ard Ave. and East 108th Street, Cleveland 5, Oliio. . . that FRED BIGGS is again weathering the storm of Soutli Bend at 2510 Sompson. . . next FRED GOEBELER will be spending the next year and a half in Atlanta in quest of a master's degree in industrial management. . . that his present ad­dress is: Stu. Del. Hq. 3rd USA (3000), Georgia Institute of TccIinolog>', Atlanta, Ga. . . . tliat Brother DOR.AN J. (JOHNROE), C.S.C., is now tcacliing at Arclibishop Hoban High ScIiooI at 400 Elbow Avenue, Akron 6. Ohio. . . tliat Brother THOMAS AQUINAS (KUN*NA), C.S.C., has been assigned to Notre Dame High School in Siicrman Oaks, California. . . that Brother's address is 13GI5 Riverside Drive. . . that EDGAR HENRY STROOT has moved fi\»m California to New Eng­land. . . tliat Edgar now resides at 1625 Main Street, Berlin, New Hampshire- . . that LEO RUOF has also moved East from Little Rock, Ar­kansas to 7 Claremont Avenue, Massena, New York. . . . that ROBERT O'TOOLE is Uie Vice-Presi­dent of the Pullman Trust & Sa\-ings Bank in Chi­cago. 

LOST AND FOUND DEPARTME-\T As usual, a few changes of address did not rcacli the Alumni Office nor ^-our secretary this year. We would be most grateful if >-ou could inform us of the wiiercabouts of seven of the most "wanted'* men from the class of '45. They are: REV. HAR­OLD LOUIS BRIDE, C.S.C; JOHN ADAMS, BOB MOREL, FARRE "TEX" REQUIGNEY, 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 
As of October, 1959, the handsome family of Korea-^V.W, II Ace Francis S. Gabreski, '42, was bursting the seams of a knockcd-out duplex on officer's row at Myrtle Beach Air Force Base, S.C. where Frank is commanding officer. In the living room (clockwise from left) are Debbie Ann, 2; Colonel Gabreski, DJoni, 13J4; Donald, II; Patsy, 6; Mrs. Gabrcski (the former Kay Cochran) and Robert, 8 weeks; Francie, 8; Mary Ann, 10; Linda Kay, 4, and Jimmy, 5. 
ARCADE PLANTE, MELVYN TOMBER, FRANK SMITH, and BOB SULLIVAN. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT 

*'Wc get letters," and we certainly welcome them no matter how brief, especially those bearing happy messages such as "I'll be on hand for our 15th — DAVE MURPHY." Otlicrs, perliaps not as certain because of pressing obligations are nevertheless try­ing their best to secure a ihrec-day pass. For ex­ample, FRtVNK NiVSH writes us: "A *ma^-bc' tr>*­ing to make it a *yes*." 
From JIM RETTER: See you at tlie reunion. Saw DICK SAYER recently when he %\-as xisiting Monsanto's Springfield plant. Also had luncli witli RAY BADDOUR over at MIT. Wc had a ver>­pleasant holiday time. No\^' have a raorie camera so we can record the rise of our Jim, Paul, Matt, Patty, and Susan and the decline of mother and dad as we exhaust ourselves building models and playing football and Little League baseball. Inci­dentally, my oldest sliook hands with Joe Cronin (president of the American League) after a Com­munion breakfast this morning. Attended tlie ND Club Communion Breakfast just before Christmas and heard Cardinal Cuslting — ver>* good." From DA\'E CHxVMPION: "Tentatively I plan to go to our 15-ycar reunion but it is not definite as I have a lot of traveling and cannot antidpatc some of it. Selfishly, I have another reason for wanting to be in South Bend about that time. Namely, gradua­tion of my brother Pete — presumably that week; we will see." From JACK KIN'NEY: "Talked to *MIKE' aVTTIE in Philadelphia recently and he would like to join '45, His address: Jules J. Cat-tie, 661 Deavcr Drive, Blue Bell, Pa. Also would like to see JOE LINDEN join with '45. Wll sec what I can do." From MIKE GARRY: "My new address b 134 Homewood Drive, Fairmont, Minn. I'll sec you at the reunion." 
From BROTHER FRANCIS ENGLERT, C.S.C. C'51): *'As secretary of the Notre Dame Class of 1945, you may be interested in knowing about Gil­mour Academy, Gates Mills, Ohio, one of the na­tion's leading preparatory schools conducted by the Brothers of Holy Cross. Our present enrollment includes a number of sons of Notre Dame Alumni. A substantial portion of our graduating class en­rolls at Notre Dame each year." From FRED BOEBELER: "Now I know why the late Clint Cas­tlebury of Georgia Tecli ran all over N. D. back in *42. He was taking math at Tech and was used to going that fast!! I'm registered here to chase a master's in industrial management. Living just out­side Dr. McPhcrson and the scliool's beautiful 3­hole golf course, but too busy to get near it." 
From JOE KELLY: "Can't make the reunion. Still with Motorola, Riverside. Outgrew our Yose­mik address so buUt a house big enough for the six little KcU>-s (3 bo>-s, 3 girls)." From CHUCK POWERS: "I note in the list of those attending the 
reunion that my name is listed as Bowen. My bad 
writing has caused trouble before and I u*ant to 
correct your records. I'll be there." From REV. 
CHARLES DELrVNEY, C.S.C.: "Just a few lines 
informing you that I have been transferred to San­
tiago, Chile. I will be in charge of a very poor 
and \'er>- large (some 10,000 people) parish. We 
will be fighting poverty, ignorance and Communism. 
Please keep us in your prayers. Keep up your good 
work." From BILL MacNEIL: *'IIope this note 
finds you liappy, hcaUljy, and in the best of spirits. 
Have received your literature regarding the forth-A-\ 
coming class reunion, and as of this date I plan on* ' 
attending. I have read the list of the attending 
class members, and I will be looking forward to 
\-islting and seeing some of my old friends again. 
Hope to see vou in June." 
From BERNARD "BUD" GOTTA: "Congratu­lations and appreciation to you on the magnificent job you arc doing in looking after the affairs, in­terests, and personalities of the class of '45. Cer­tainly this is at a great personal sacHftce of time. As the years go on wc all gain added appreciation i for Notre Dame, and to a good measure your ef­forts contribute substantially to this affinity. This ; is a long way around to say that I am looking for-, v ward to and planning on the 15-year reunion ncxl» ) June." From BROTHER DORAN (JOHNROE) 
C.S.C: "I cannot promise that I shall be at the *iromccoming.* There is a possibility; when sum­mer obediences come out, I shall know definitely." From JOHN DENNEN BOWEN, JR.: "In regard to the reunion this June, yes I think I can make it." 
From Mrs. PAT USINA: "J. D. is presently cruising tlic Mediterranean, and is due back in ' Marcli. He is executive ofiiccr aboard the USS William R. Rush (FPO, N.Y., N.Y.), (DDR714). I for\**arded your last notice on the reunion for him to answer. I am almost positive he won't bc^ \ able to attend the reunion, which I'm sure he will regret. The cliildren and I are 'waiting it out* in Florida this winter. Mike, our oldest, started kin­dergarten at St. Joseph's Academy, his daddy's and hh grandmother's alma mater, a source of family pride. No doubt you'll receive definite word from 
J. D. as soon as he's able to write." From DICK MARTIN: "Unfortunately, I will not be able to attend our 15-year reunion. Class news: PHIL MARTIN was recently promoted to assistant x-ice­prcsident of the trust department of the 1st Na-^-w tional Bank here in San Diego. I was married ont ^ November 28 to Ella Mac Christopher of Lena, Wis., and Long Beadi, California." (Dick; Con­gratulations to you on a wise move. The class is happy to hear this. Best regards, Al.) 
From JIM DUGAN: "I am looking for^x-ard to the reunion in June. JIM RETTER is to meet me in Cleveland so we can go to South Bend together-Last March I met DICK LEITE at the IAS pro---^ 
^pulsion meeting held here in Cleveland. Earh'er this month uc appeared in court for the final adop­tion proceedings Tor our IVs-ycar-old daughter Anne Marie." From PAUL HURO: "No news. This is just to reconfirm my intention of attending the re­union. I am sure the otlicr members of the Class of '45 greatly appreciate, as I do, the fine job you are doing. Best wishes for a happy and successful New Year." 
From JIM SCHWEICKERT: "The biggest news 
^ n our house is the birth of our third son and Plourth cliild. Eric Jan arrived on Dec. 3 at 3:13 
a.m. He weighed in at 7 lbs. 10 oz. and stretched to 20 inches. Our smallest baby. The kids have already forgotten they were hoping for a girl.*' From WALT McDERMOTT: "Sorr>- to tell you this, but I think I will be unable to make the re­union, as I have a son graduating that same week. Since Z last wrote to you, I have moved to Cali­fornia. I have my ou-n business in brake and front end scr%'ice. I also teach this trade at £1 Camera College two nights a week. Wc arc all \-cry happy and Well here in sunny California, all eight of us: 
^thrce boys, three girls, my wife, and I. Best re-
Pgards." 
From AL WADE: "I definitely plan on attending the Class of M5 reunion in June. Sorr>* I haven*t contacted you sooner, but we have been transferred and were a bit unsettled for a time.'* From RUDY ANDERSON: "A short note to reconfirm that I intend to make our reunion in June. If it is as good as our tcntli, word-of-mouth should bring out ever>-body! About me — I've gone back to Law from Sales and will join Merck & Co., in Rahway, 
N. J., on January 18. Tlie former Helen O'Donnell (Df\N 0'DONNELL*s sister) and I have just rea­sonably recovered from the holidays with our one 
^little lady and four boys." ^ From REV. CFLVRLES GILLESPIE, C.S.C.: "Re­ceived your invites for the Reunion of 1960, but, I*m afraid, even in these days of Jet travel, we won't be able to make it from Notre Dame College, Dacca, E. Pakistan. The *'we" includes two other "45ers" here with me, Fathers RICHARD TIM.M and HAROLD BRIDE. We alu-ays follow the doings of our class with interest in the ALUMNUS and continue to mar\"el at the energ>* and enthusi­asm of the class secretary. Congratulations, keep up the good work. How we would enjoy being 
there with you, but again only in spirit. Maybe one of these reunions w*iU coincide with our sabbati­|cal home." From MARK A. CRONIN, JR.; '"HANK PA\'NE, JOHN MACK, JOHN L.\UERY and I have done quite a bit of pheasant hunting together." From ROBERT OTOOLE: "I do want >'ou to know I will be on hand, expecting to arrive early and leave late. I have been looking fon^-ard 
to a reunion ever since tlic last one." 
That's the news for now, so your secretary is signing ofT and hanging his close on this Itnc. . . AL 
From the Alumni OIHce: FATHER DEL^VNEY, whose letter is quoted above, has been pastor of Holy Cross Churcli in .Austin, Tex., for the past seven years. A native Fof Binghampton, N. Y., he's no stranger to Chile; the January assignment is his second obedience in Santiago. 
AL LESMEZ isn't the only '45 officer uho's covered himself t%'ith glor>' in the past few months. President JA.MES J. CLYNES, JR., an attorne>- in Ithaca, N. Y., was a^\"ardcd a plaque in January naming him Ithaca's outstanding young man of the year 1959. Tlie presentation was made at the Ithaca Jaycees' annual Distinguished Ser\'icc Award dinner. The award was given for "outstanding community ser\'ice .. . to the person who through lo>'aI, faithful and unselfish efforts has made a 
^^eat contribution to his community, state and nation." Jim has scr\'ed on the Youth Ser\-ice Committee of Kiwanis; is former vice president of the Jaycees and cJiairman of two junior state golf tournaments sponsored by the organization; current­ly serves as treasurer of hb county's Bar *\ssn. and \icc president of the New York State Young Demo­crats and clialrman of the county group. He lias worked for the United Fund, C.Y.O., and Immacu­late Conception Church fund drives, etc He is executive vice president and secretary of Radio Ithaca, Inc.; Ivy Broadcasting Co., and Ivy Ad­'v'crtising Co., and associated with the law firm of Treman and Clyncs. 
ROBERT CRONIN, a Hartford City, Ind., bank­er and Democrat, has been appointed by Indiana's Republican governor to the Toll Road Commission to nil the unexpired term of his father, who re­signed to give more time to other duties. Bob 15 a pri\'ale pilot and president of the Hartford City Board of Aviation Commissioners. 
194 6 J^*^ Tcngc, Jr. 2025 W. Six MUe Rd. Detroit 3, Michigan 
From the Alumni Office: On Januar>- 23 ROBERT G. BROWN, a former 
N.D. instructor, was given the 1960 Billy MItcIicIl Award for outstanding scr^'ice to the Air Force at the annual award dinner of the Milu-aukee chapter (Billy MItcIiell Squadron) of tlic Air Force fXssociation. TTie award is oiTered to tJie person born or employed In AVisconsin xvlio has contrib­uted the most to the Air Force in the past year. Bob is assistant director of Navigation and Guid­ance for AC Spark Plug, the electronics division of General ^fotors. 
Bob was selected on the basis of his contribu­
tions to air power, one nf the most Important of 
which was his role in developing the all-ineztial 
guidance system for the Tlior ballistic missile, the 
only long-range ballistic missile in general use In 
the Free World. Inertial guidance is a na%-lgatinn 
concept which makes mlssibs self-directing. Inde­
pendent of radio or radar support on the ground 
and almost perfectly accurate. Once launched, a 
missile thus guided is more dlfHcuU to detect and 
cannot he throun off course by natural or man-
made forces. Bob, in cooperation with top scien­
tists at if.I.T., developed the theoretical system 
approacli whicli resulted In making n successful in­
ertial giudance systcn\ for the Thor. He has also 
contributed to tlic development of th- inertial guid­
ance system concept used on other missiles. 
Bom in Cicero, III., Bob got his B.5. and M.5. 
degrees in electrical engineering at Notre Dame. 
In 1948, after two years as an instructor, he went 
to the University of North Dakota for three years 
as an assistant professor. Ife joined AC in 1951, 
and, w*hitc developing a sj'stems engineering de­
partment, headed the flight crew testing the lirst 
Stellar Inertial Bombing S>'Stcm (SIBS), forerunner 
of precision inertial guidance as we know it today. 
An autiiority In the field of 5er\-oincdianism5, 
Bob is co-author of *'Servomerhanlsm Analysis,** 
published in 1953 and widely used as a college 
text, and "Analysis and Design of Feedback Con­
trols," scheduled for publication this spring. 
Bob is a veteran of three yiars with the U.S. Navy. He and his wife and family of eight chil­dren live in Elm Grove, Wis. He belongs to the 
K. of C , the iVmerican Institute of Electrical Engineers, American Rockrt Society, Instrument Society of America, and he's vice-president of the National Telemetering Conference. 
Some '46 men may remember a Navy V-twclvcr named R^VY BETTS. A note from JOHN NOLAN, '42, encloses a clipping from the Chlllicothc, 0-, newspaper announcing Ray's prospective arrival in town as an Episcopalian minister. From Xcnia, O., he accepted the rectorship of the local Episcopal church, St. Paul's. Having finished at Yale and Tlieological college, he Is now married to a Smith grad and Itas three cliildren. 
194 7 Jack MHes '^ ' 3218 Bcntlcy Lane South Bend, Ind. 
I9G2 MINUS 19G0 EQUALS 2 

With our lo-year reunion just two years hence, 
your Secretary- is already roughing out plans with 
local committeemen to make It the best ever. 
Recently wc attended a two-day Class Secretaries Conference on campus which proved quite fruitful and at whicli thb writer was privileged to deliver a talk on the functions and vitality of the local reunion committee. 
Later this year wc are going to ask YOU for help in planning this event, and you owe it to yourselves and all your classmates to respond with the kind of opinions wc need to guide us' aright in making the 1962 reunion not only successful, but memorable. 
TRAGIC TlfANKSGIVI.VG 

Our deepest s>-mpathy is extended to HENRY KEEL, whose wife, Pat, and 3-year-oId son, Michael, died from suH'ocatlon In a fire whlcIi gutted their South Miami home just four da\-s before Tlianksglving. 
Henry was at the motel he manatees In nearby Hallandale when the carly-morning blaze swept his home at 6330 Southwest 44th St., caused apparently by a cigarette smouldering in a stuffed sofa in the living room. 
^flchael we know is In Heaven, so please pray for Pat and for Henry as he faces the tough assign­ment of caring for the fiv;; surviving children: Henry, Jr., 12; Mary Patrida, 11; John, 9; Kath­leen, 6, and Ruth, 4. 
MISCELLANY 

TOAf SCHREIBER has returned to South Bend with hi* wife and four '•hUdrcn after working - the past nint- years for the Xcwmaa 1're.is "» Wat­rainstcr, Md. He is ofHce manager at FR. PUXig*s Fides Press on the campus. JBf MURPHY reports he visited at the Northwestern fooAall game this past fall with his brother-in-law, JOHX LILL, an engineer for the Fort Wayne Tool, Die, and Engineering Co., and DR. KENNETH K^IL , '45, a Chicago dentist. BROTHER FCDRO HAER­ING, CS.C , has bcca transferred from Cathedral High School in Indianapolis to the post of prin* clpal at the Archbishop Hoban High School in Akron, O. 
Influenced perhaps by the roseate hue more and more being taken on by the Castro govemmeat, LUIS BELTRANENA has iled Havana to reside In Guatemala City. BROTHER RENATUS FOL­DENAUER, CS.C , has moved downstate in New-York from the VIncentian Institute In Albany to Holy Cross High School in Flushing. FATHER JOSEPH CANNON, C3.C , has been transferred from Kccnan Hall on campus to the University of Portland in Oregon. LT.-COMMANDER BILL BARRY, U.S.N., is, at last report, stationed in Portsmouth, Va., after a Chicago assignment. 
LEGAL NOTES 

For some reason the ne^^Tpapcis and press re­
leases arc full of '47 men who have achieved the 
judiciary- or new legal distinctions. We reported 
last fall that UTLLIAM J. OBER.MILLER ^VM 
running for city judge In ^Vhiting, Ind. Bill, a 
newcomer on the political scene but well known 
In Calumet civic and Industrial circles, w?s elected 
and took the bench January I, Having defeated 
tlie incumbent in the Democratic primaries In May, 
he beat the incumbent's father, running for judge 
as a Republican, In November. BUI announced that 
he ^v'ould hold a regular night session so that de­
fendants* families would not be deprived of thar 
Avages. He also pledged close cooperation with law 
enforcement agencies. A community relations rep­
resentative for Standard Oil's Whiting Refinery, 
Bill has practiced and tai^ht. law In the Calumet 
Region for several years. A former Lake County 
deputy prosecutor, he's attorney for the 'Whiting 
School Board and a member of the County Tax 
Board. During W. W. II and Korea he was an 
intcUigcncc agent with the U.S. Navy. He was 
named the Jaycees "outstanding young man of the 
year" last April. A former March of Dimes chair­
man, he has been affiliated with more than a 
dozen charitable and ser^*iec organizations. BUI, 
^vile Ann and their baby daughter live in Sacred 
Heart Parish, \\TiitIng. 
Another new judge since last Oct. 14, is All­
/Vmerican FRANK SZYMANSKI, two-term Auditor 
General of Michigan, appointed by Gov. Williams 
to an the unexpired term of a deceased Probate 
Court judge in Detroit. On hand at the installa­
tion in the City-County Building auditorium were 
the acting governor, various judges, veterans' repre­
sentatives. Senator Hart, Mayor MirianI and an 
erstwhile classmate, REV. NORMAN VAN SILE, 
'43, for the invocation and blessing. JACK \VIG­

GINS, '43 secretary, probably hasn't heard that 
Father Norm is no\*- pastor of St. Clare of Monte­
falco Church, Grossc Polnte, Mich. 
It's noted above that Guatemalan liberator LUIS 
BELTRANENA left his insurance business in "lib­
erated" Havana. He's set up a law firm with his 
father, Beltranena & Beltranena, back in Guate­
mala City, where he'll deal In Insurance too. An­
other lawyer, CHARLES G. HASSON, was recently 
appointed assistant district attorney in Cambria 
County, Pa. 
MORE M!SCELLAN*Y 

Thanks to Peg and BILL PECK, Doris and BOB MULCAHY, Dot and PHIL DEUNCKE, Pat and PAUL UBASSI, and BROTHER IVAN DOLAX, CS.C , for their Christmas cards. BOB A1UL< CAHV u-rites "Another year gone by without get­ting out that way—we'll make It one of these years. Dot Dellncke says that Phil, a member of our polio fraternity, remains well and goes to work every day, and Pat LIBassI jots the info that "Paul started his medical practice in July and has been busy." 
Quoth BROTHER IVAN: "This is the end of the school year over here and these past few weeks have been busy ones. .. . Today I -will distribute the progress reports to the 600 or so boys reading In the mission primary school; tomorrow it will be the same for the students of the high sdiool. .. . 
"For the past few months I have been busy-also building the new refectory, storerooms, and ^vork shop for the school. In all it is costing me the grand total of about $3,000. At NJ>. Vm afraid this amount wouldn't go very far, but here 
Notre Dame AlumnuSj March, 1960 27 
.«> 
I will end up with a rather nice building, one that 
will last for a good manv vcars. . . .'* 
NEW ADDRESSES . . . 
.. . are on record for DR. P.\UL LiBASSI; 
TOM POTTER; BILL KOCH; MAR\TN 
PROSCHE; JOHN MERR\'M.\N; JOHN MAHER; 
JIM FOLEY; JIM .ABBOTT, and AL SWAN. 
PREVIEW 
Next issue you'll be reading about many of our 
classmates in Chicago, whom I'll call during my 
stay there for the Boat Show, and—if you'll but 
take a few minutes to scribble a line or two—about 
YOURSELF- Come on nmv: Readv . . . Aim 
. . . WRITE! 
194 8 ^^^° Dcfant c/o University Press Notre Dame, Ind. 
Tlic questionnaires keep roUing in, but wc arc 
now just about at the end of the string. The>' 
have been sent out to all of you, and it's up to 
you to fill them out and return them. 
You will have gotten all the news in the M8 
News Letter, so this column will be only a con­
densation of tlie material—or, rather. Just a list 
of contributors. 
Here arc the '48crs who filled out questionnaires 
and returned them since those %vhose names ap­
peared in the last issue: GEORGE W. BARS.\, 
BILL BON^^^CH, CLARENCE J. BOURRET, 
JAMES I. CORCORAN, WILLIAM J. CRUM­
LEY, ROBERT J. DASCHBACH, ALD., FRAN­
CIS J. DAVIS, ROBERT W. FRANZ, JOHN M. 
FREESE, THO.M.AS G. FRY. JR., WILLIAM K. 
FULTON, GEORGE H. GORE. 
JAMES E. GORMAN, WILLIAM H. GRADY. 
ROBERT M. GRANT, ^MLLUM J. GREELEY, 
THO.\L\S H. GREE-\. JOHN B. GRIFFIN, .\LD., 
WILLIAM FRANCIS GRIFFIN, FRANK J. 
GUIDO, THOMAS S. HACKMAN, JOHN L. 
KAFF. JOHN D. HARRINGTON, HARRY J. 
HATER, JR., SAMUEL J. HA20, JERO.ME BY­
RON HAYES. V. JAMES HECK, GERARD J. 
HEKKER, D/\NIEL W. HESTER, WARREN F. 
KANE. 
RICHARD J. KASBERG, JAMES K, KAUF­MAN, RICHARD F. KAYSER, ROBERT E. KEARNEY, GEORGE J. KEENAX, TLMOTHY E. KEELEY, GERALD L. KERSCHEN, ROBERT E. KETT, S-AMUEL M. Kp-CHIX, ROBERT A. KLEIN, WILLIAM A. KORTAN, JAMES J. KRESS, ROBERT H. MacLE-MALE, JOHN R. MINZING, H. DAVID .MOSIER, JOHN ROBERT PADON. WILLIAM G. PALMER, JOHN A. PARKER. 
JAMES P. P.\TTERSON, STE\^E PA\^ELA, HAROLD PHILIP PE.\R, ARNOLD A. PEDER­SEN, ROBERT H. PERCIVAL, THO.M/\S L. PHILLIPS, ROBERT E. PIERSON, HARRY C. REICH, JOHN A. REILLY, PAUL A. REILLY, ^LD., WILLIAM F. REILY, FRED J. RENN, FRED RICKER, PAUL J. RIGALI, RAYMOND 
S. RISTOW. 
AVILLLAM F. ROBERTS, FR^VNCIS T. ROB­INSON, ROBERT E. ROLWING, ALBERT S. SALVI, MARIO C. SANTAROSSA, ROBERT A. SCHIRMER, PAUL O. SCHIRME\'ER, GEORGE 
V. SCHMITT, D.D.S., JOHN ARNOLD SCHNEI­DER, PAUL BEARMAN, RICHARD J. HER­BERG, JOHN P. KANE. DON N. KERSTEN, THO.\LAS M. KILEY, JOHN A. MURPm'. JOHN 
P. O'NEILL, THOMAS D. RICHARDS, and GEORGE H. SCHILLING. 
All tlic dope on the above is listed in the News Letter, as is a lot of other news. If any of you did not receive a copy of the News Letter, I'll be glad to send you one. Remember, if there is ever any information you may want on anyone in the class, let mc know and Til do my best to trj* to get it for you. 
In conclusion, a few tidbits forwarded by the Alumni Oflicc: 
EDWARD KENEFICK has been appointed gen­
eral sales manager for AVBBM-TV, CBS telcxlsion outlet in Chicago. Ed came west from the ac­count executive stafi" of WCBS-TV in New York. Previously he was an ac­count executive with XBC. After graduation Ed spent a few years as head football coach at some high schools in Pennsylvania, then joined the F.B.L for three years as a special agent before going into sales as a sta-
E. Kencfick tion representative. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1960 
JOHN E. CASSIDY, JR., partner wnth his father, 
a former Illinois attorney general, in Cassidy & 
Cassidy, Peoria, is entering the Democratic pri­
mar>* for state senator in Illinois' three-county I8th 
district. Currently an elected park trustee, John 
has been active in \-3rious ciric projects. John 
and wife Helen have five young Cassid>'s. In Janu­
ary VINCE BORYLA left his Denver business to 
sign with the N^cw York Knickerbockers basketball 
team as general manager for two years plus. Vince 
has been a player and coach for the Knicks. 
Congratulations to JOHN A. 0*CONN0R, who 
succeeded a monsignor as editor of the Monitor, 
newspaper of the San Francisco arclidiocesc, and 
director of public relations for the archdiocese in 
January. John has a masler*s degree in education 
from Stanford, resides with Mrs. O'C. and three 
children in San Carlos, Calif. 
A special accolade to GEORGE CONNOR, who 
has added membenhip on the N.D. Alumni Board 
to his many enterprises. George was on campus 
for the January meeting. Ardiitect JOHN M. 
EVANS of Fort Lauderdale. Fla., president of his 
county chapter of A.I.A., was a professional ad­
visor for the Pompano Beach civic center project 
and recently completed a three-month course with 
the British Architectural Association In London, 
studying nc^v ideas in tropical ardiitccturc. Jack 
has been a sharp critic of Florida's residential 
arcliitecture, frampaigning against the sameness and 
inappropriateness of local housing styles. 
In November JAMES D. ROAVLAND sent in an address correction: it's now 480 McJvillc, Palo Alto, Calif. Since last September LAAVRENCE J. SCHUBERT, a South Bend architect, has been assodated with ANTHONY PANZICA, '50. For the past 11 years l.arry has been with Tliomas L, Hicke\', Inc., general contractor. 
194 0 John Walker 
•'^^ 826 Wing St. El|^n, DL 

From the .Mumni Ofiice: In X'ovcmber the 14tli annual meeting of the American Rocket Society in Washington, D. C , featured a talk on the propulsion possibilities of manned space flight bv JAMES H. MADDEN, head of the engine relia­bility department of Aero­jet-General Corp., liquid rocket plant in Sacra­mento, Calif., where the /\ir Force Titan ICBM is being produced. Jim, who stayed on for his master's at X'.D., said tliat the possibility of par­tial propulsion failure in a £pacc vehicle can be practically eliminated by 
J. H. Madden 

using a cluster of seven to ten liquid fuel engines with massive thrust employing the principle of redundancy- to compensate for partial failures. Jtm*s firm has had a propulsion role in the Minuteman, Polaris, Hawk, Scout, Thor-Ablc and Atlas-Able missiles. 
JOHN F. O'DONNELL, who took a master's and doctorate in chcm engineering at M.I.T., has 
been appointed director 
of commercial develop­
ment for Kordite Corp., 
polyethylene products, 
Macedon, N. Y., in 
charge of applications re­
search, semicommercial 
manufacturing, teclinical 
customer scr\'icc, plant 
design and construction. 
John has been with Du­
Pont and \-ari0u5 branches 
of M.I.T. and went to 
France on a fellowship in 

J. F. O Donncll ,933 ^lic O'Donnells live in Pittsford, X^. Y., with their two children, Ellen, 0. and James, 2. 
"Ncu3 of two Ph.D.'s from the class: DR. J. P. DAILEY. former head of organic research at the Armour Pharmaceutical Co. lab in Kankakee, III., has been appointed director of rcsearcli in charge of biocliemistrj', organic cliemistiy and pharmacol­ogy, a newly created job. DR. FRANK M. PAL-ERAirri. former rescarcli head for R. K. Laros Co. and bioclicmical group leader at X'ational Datrs' Rcsearcli Laboratories, has joined Borden Foods Rescarcli S: Development, Syracuse, X. Y., to head a new flavor lab whicli \rill conduct study to improve existing Borden products and develop new ones. 
Most of the remaining news is tragic. The cir­

cumstances should enlist the continuing prayers and 
Masses of classmates and friends in other classes. 
On December 15 three members of the JOHN 
MEYERS ('51) family of Carroll, la., wrc killed 
in the collision of . their car and a truck near 
Marshalltm\-n, la. The Meyers were on their way 
home from Iowa City ^vhcrc thc>- liad gone to bring 
their daughter Jean, 7, a cerebral palsy patient 
at a state scliool, back to Carroll for the Christmas 
holiday's. Jean and another daughter, Patty, 4 ^ 
were injured; dead were John, his wife Doroth^i 
and daughter Aaa. Sur\'tvins besides Jean and 
Patty were five other ^feyc^s children at home; 
Pegg>*, 10; Darid, 9; Kathy, 8; twins Mark and 
Steven, four months. S>*mpathy to the families of 
John and Dorothy. 
Tlicn on January 21 LOUIS E. BLACK, former 

president of the X.D. Club of Mi'cliigan City, died 
unexpectedly after a heart attack in Michigan 
City, Ind. Burial u'as on Jan. 25 at St. Joseph's 
Church in his native South Bend. Business man­
ager of Doctors Hospital, Michigan City, for the 
past six years. Lou was certified eligible by th ^ 
U. S. CiWl Service Commission for a federal hos^ ) pital appointment last July 20, and an appoint­ment came through to atlminister a hospital in AVashington, D. C, at the time of his death. Lou leaves his wife. Mar>- Catherine, and three children, Marilou, James and Tliomas, who have Lou*s classmates* profound sympathy. 
To continue on a happier note, BILL BROCK­HOFF of Taylonille, X. C , informed tlie office of a new family addition (N^ancj* Elizabeth, 9 lbs., 2 oz.) on December 2. 
Congratulations to Philadelphia's J.ACK DEMP­SEY who has stepped In to complete the term of tlic late CHUCK ROHR, '30, on the Alumni Board. 
G. ROGER CAHANEY was named general man^ agcr of Sterling Afovies U. S. A., Inc., effective Januarj- 15. Rog has been with the company since June, 1958, w-hen he resigned as executive secretary* of the Catholic Press /Vssoaation. He will handle advertising and promotion and oversee operations of distributing public serxicc films. 
10 YEAR REUNION Class of '50 JUNE 10-11-12 •) 

1950 ^c^^^^ ^' ^^^^ 
47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 

Reunion time is at hand. Our committee in South Bend, with BILL MEEHAN as Chairman, ably assisted by JOE HICKEY and DICK CLE.\RY, u-ill be making the preparations for our party on Friday night and the Saturday actirities. Have you set the dates aside on your calendar? ^ 
Have you heard DON MURPHY, still singlelP* with Motorola in Phoenix has turned landlortl and has two houses in Scotsdale. one with swim­ming pool? GEORGE VALENTA is with Bur­roughs in Paoli, Pa., working on magnetics and semiconductors. In March the Valcntas are ex­pecting their sixth and also expect to move into a new house. 
The Xa\y Game in Philadelphia looks like a good game to arrange for an Eastern Seaboard get-together after the game. Wc will announce meeting place in the next issue, but in the mean­time, order your tickets from Papa BOB CAHILL, 
PAUL BUCmTCSKY has been named Ohio dis| 
I) 

trict manager for the computer division of BendLv .•\\iation. He's in charge of sales, serx'icc and 
training for the Bcndix G-15 digital coinputor and other transistorized coinputor equipment, with ofliccs in his native Cleve­land. Formerly a sales­man, Paul got an M.S. in engineering admintslration from Cleveland's Case Tech. The Buchynskys and their three children live at 11460 Dt4jorah 
Drive. Parma, O. ^- Buchj-nski 
I\'0 FATIGATTI reports the arri\-al of his third youngster last May and that number four is on the production line. He still is busy with his brick company, gift shop and helping out at the White Front Bar and Grill. 
• ) 

DON GROSS is now section chief in metallurgy rcscarcli and development at ^Veston Instruments in, Newark, N. J. 
Local Committeeman DICIC CLE^\RY is now an allied member of the Xctv York Stock Exchange since South Bend's Albert McGann Securities Co., Inc., was elected as a member corporation. 
VERNE KELLEY has been elected \-icc president for advertising and public relations of the Grey­hound Corp. Verne, formerly an ad agency exec, 
^a s been Greyhound's advertising manager since 1957. 
EDWARD J. SNYDER, JR., has been named 

assistant to the president of North /\mcrican Car Corp., Chicago, in charge of developing and coor­dinating public relations and advertising. Ed, who joined the company in this position, has been an account executive with Sel\"age & Lee, Inc., for the past four years and previously was a neivs­papcmian. 
W. J. WISSEL, a Law School grad, has left Grand Rapids, Mich., and E. J. Snyder, Jr. 

now lives at 9754 \\*ood­wind Dr., Houston 25, Tex. He's secrctar\--man­ager of the Houston /Association of Credit ^[an­agemcnt. Inc. FRANK J. FITZGERALD has been appointed district sales manager of Monsanto Chemical's inorganic chemicals division office in Boston. Mass., after ser\-ing as assistant manager in Boston. 
Christine Anne, third daughter and fourth cliild 

©.f Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. GROVES, was bom January 25. Mrs. Groves is the former Joan Gargaro. 
VINCENT J. GlESE, editorial director of Fides Publishers /\ssn. in Chicago, got the first annual Alumni Merit award from St. Joseph College, Rensselaer, Ind., on Jan. 31, and delivered the commencement address. \'incc took a master's de­gree with the class wliilc working for Fides, leading apostolic publisher. A leader in C.C.D., Y.C.W. and other apostolic movements, \'ince has written three books, ".Apostolic Itcli," "Patterns for Teen­agers'* and "Training for Leadership." 
1951 Robert J. Klingenbergcr 
• '^^ 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
Received Christmas cards from the following classmates: RAY T. .MILLER, with a picture of the two bo>-s and two girls; CIL\RLES T. HELL­MXJTH, '50, from Washington, D. C ; TO.M MULLEN, 2821 X. E. 32nd St., Pompano Beach, Florida, where he is now working; BILL COO­NEY, 2936 28th Street, N. W., Washington 8, D. C ; PAT BARRETT, 2028 Seabury Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. ^ Pat is Interning presently and hopes to Ilettlc in Minneapolis. Also, they adopted their 
«e, 
first child, Robert Patrick, born November 11, 1959. I HARVEY O'NEILL, 69 Hillcrest Drive, Peru, } Indiana; STEVE MARTIN, 1940 Washington St.. : No. 301, San Francisco 9, Calif., now with a law firm after concluding a one-vear postgrad course in , txxcs at N.Y.U.; CILVRLIE LUECKE, Frceport, : Illinois; GEORGE LrVRSEN, 2436 Clarendon Ave­nue, Louisville 5, Kentucky, with a picture of the : three girls and two boys; BILL ANHUT, 17350 : Pennington Drive, Detroit, Mich., now with three 
girls and two boys. BUD HERR, Box H, Chatsworth, Illinois; PAT SULLIV.VN, 2015 Military Road, Port Huron, ^(icliigan; HANK M.\DDEN, with a picture of one 
I boy and two girls; AL GUARNIERI, now with two 
t boys and one girl; KE.\ THOREN, 256 Central 
/ Avenue, Rye, New York, now with one girl; JOHN 
K. MOORE, without a word on it, and DON SONDAG, 940 WillK-ie Drive, Decatur, Illinois, with a picture of their girl and boy. Don finishes his rcsidenc>* in O.B. in June '61. 
JERRY HANK, I8I2 37th Street Ct., MoHne. 
HI. Their first son was born in April. Jerry is ^Asst. to the President of Montgomery EIc\-aIor ^^ompany. He reports that he sees JACK CORYN 
frequently because he is with tlic legal firm his 
company deals with. 
DICK ^UCDONALD, 1005 Highland, Lafayette, Ind.; BOB EDMONDSON, 65 East 96th Street, New York 28, New York, with a picture of Jolm and Amy; JOHN HALEY, 7116 Pcncotec Drive, Fort Wayne, Ind.; TOM LOGAN, 1031 Kensing­ton Blvd., Fort AVaync, Indiana; MATTY O'DON­
ftCELL, a Captain In the army, J. A. Section, Hqts. VII Corps, APO 107, N.Y,, N.Y. Matty is stationed in Germany with his wife and t^vo daugh­ters. He sends a general invitation. •. 
ED MCG\RTHY, '50, nov address 5917 Rickey Street, Mctairie, La. (They have one boy and one giri); Father JIM MADDEN, C.S.C., now in his thind year In the Far East, has had a mission in the jungles of the Garo Hills, address—Cathob'c Church, Biroidakuni, P.O. Haluaghat, Dt. ^lymen­singh, East Paklsun; JIM FRICK, who is mo%ing into a new home in South Bend shortly. 
In tlie last column I reported the untimely death of R. L. WARD and GENE KENTs'Y. On Decem­ber 15lh, JOHN L. MEYERS, his wife and two­year-old daughter were killed in an automobile ac­cident, leaving seven other children. LOU BAU­MAN died in another automobile accident in Sep­tember, and his fattier had passed away In March. Let's continue to remember them in our prayers. In my last column I asked for some small contri­butions to start a class fund out of which we could have Masses said for our deceased classmates. Some have responded, and I hope more vvill take a minute to respond. This fund I'll turn over to JOHN WORTHINGTON, class treasurer, and I'll report on it from time to time. 
From the Alumni Office: One of the class Ph.D.'s, Dr. ERNEST G. BROCK, has been made a principal scientist in the basic science laboratory of the Stromberg-Carbon division of Gen­eral D>'namlcs Corp. He joined Strombcrg - Carl­son's rescarcit division in 1358 as a senior physicist and has been specializing in molecular resonance. He has been a rcscarclier in other electronics labor­atories. B.\SIL V. BUTIKILVRT ifceivcd an M.A. from Oliio State at the fall n T^ ^ n . quarter commencement. Dr. E. G. Bnick -j^^^ Ccdar Rapids cliap­ter of the National Assn. of .Accountants elected JOSEPH CREEN a team captain for 1959-60. Joe, manager of procedures and forms control for Col­lins Radio Co., came from Caterpillar in Peoria and has been active with the local N. D. Club. He resides with Mrs. Crecn and five children at 2922 ^fan5field Av., S.E., Ccdar Rapids. JOSEPH M. DUKERT has been appointed man­ager of information services for the Nuclear Divi­sion of The Martin Co. In Baltimore. On the Afartin info staff since 1956, Joe lias managed the speaker's bureau and publicized rocket and mis­sile work before concen­trating on nuclear pro­grams. He's been an Air Force intelligence officer in the Philippines, a Baltimore newsman and went to Italy on a Johns Hopkins international fel­
M. Dukcrt lowship. Lately he and his wife Virginia have been very active in Balti­more civic affairs. 
CHARLES LENZ, a constant toiler for the Sag­inaw Valley N. D. Club, has been busy with "God and Man," a lecture series sponsored by the Chris­tian Family Movement in ^Iidland, MIcli., featur­ing distinguished university experts on science and religion. 
1952 Harry L.Buch ^^ 600 Board of Trade BIdg. ^Vheeling, W. Va. 
RICHARD E. DILLON, 2150 RldgeclIfT, Colum­bus 21, O.; 1954-57, Oluo State (law), presently attorney, Johnson & Dillon; married Mav 1, 1954; has three children. WILLLVM SHEW^VN, Route 5, Box 29, Valparaiso, Ind.; professor and chairman of the Dcpt. of Electrical Engineering at Valparai­so U.; married April 16, 1949; has five children. E^VRL L. BErVUCHAMP, G-3492 Branch Road, Flint, Michigan; 1957-59, J4 master's in education, 
U. of Mich.; elementary teacher, 6th grade, Buell School; married June 28, 1952; has two children. 
LrVURENCE E. CAROSINO, 908 N. Franklin St., Wilmington 6, Del.; M.S. Chemistry, Purdue 
U. 1952-55; Ph.D., Purdue 1955-57; research chem­ist for Hercules Powder Company; still single. DON "BUTCH" WEII^VND, 3235 Tremont Rd., Colum­bus 21, O.; electric typevmter salesman for. IBM Corp.; married June 13, 1959; CARL EIBERGER, 4401 Bryant St., Denver, Colo.; law degree, Notre Dame, 1954; M.B.A., Denver U., 1959; has own law practice and is associated with Akolt, Tnm­quist. Shepherd & Dick ser\'ing as associate gen­eral counsel, >Iount^n States Telephone & Tcle> graph Co.; married June 14, 1958. RICHARD S. NOVrrSKY, 762 lona Ave., Mogadore, O.; process en^neer for General Tire Jfc Rubber Co., chemical div.; married April 26, 1956; has one son. 
ROBERT MICHAEL PECKELS, 12G6 Country Lane, Northbrook, III.; president of Midland Sales, Inc., (advertising specialties, merchandising aids, premiums); married Sept. 12, 1953; has five boys. PHILIP B. TOOLE, 185 Union St., Attleboro, Mass.; asst. director of advertising for 54 Sheraton hotels in the U.S.A., Canada, and Hawaii. Mar­ried Oct. 18, 1958. GEORGE H. GROSS, 7584 West 116th St., Parma 30, 0-; presently working for master's at Western Reserve U.; elementary phy­sical education teacher; junior high basketball, asst. \'ar5ity track coach at Cuyahoga Heights; mar^ ried June 7, 1952; has four children. 
DR. WILLIAM ANDRE\V RAGAN, Box 206, WUlamsport, O.; research development super\'isor for DuPont; married 1951; has four children. ED­WARD A. GOERNER, 97 Cherry Hni CI, Bran-ford, Conn.; 1955-58 U. of Chicago, M.A. 1957; Ph.D. thesis in progress; instructor in political sci­ence, Yale U.; married Sept., 1955; has two child­ren. JACK H. WENNING, Capt. USAF, 264 E. 216 St., Cleveland 23, O.; presently with the 509th Bomb AVIng, at Pease AFB, New Hampshire, at­tending squadron officer school; married Nov. 26, 1955; first child bom in Augtist, 1959. 
ROBERT C. (BOB) BUTLER, 30 The Fainvay, Cedar Grove, X. J.; M.B.A., Wharton School of Finance, U. of Pa.; staff purchasing agent for Syl­\'ania Electric Products Inc.; married April 14, 1956; has one son. REV. ARTHUR R. PERRY, 1334 West 8th St., Davenport. la.; Ordination June I, 1957, Sacred Heart Cathedral, Davenport; First Mass, June 2, 1957, St. Paul the Apostle Churdi. Davenport; English, business law and economics teacher, AssumpUon High School; chaplain, St. Vincent's home. JAMES G- RICHESON, 525 Bar­cia Drive, Rock Hill 19, Missouri; district sales en­gineer for Pangborn Corp.; married April 11, 1953; has one son. 
ROBERT H. MOONEY, JR., 2329 Cumberlai^ Rd., Lansing, Mich.; supervisor of methods engi­neering, Oldsmobile Div., G.M.C.; married Aug. 6, 1952; has six children. JOHN A. COLE^LlN, JR., 812 Park Ave., New York 21, N.Y.; member, Nc^v York stock cxcliange, Adler, Coleman & Co.; stHl single. Ri\LPH V. MYERS, 1010 S. Edison Ave., South Bend, Ind.; partner with Rahn Manufactur­ing Co., manufacturing and distributing novelty items; married March 31, 1951; has four children. 
REV. JfUfES B. GILLIS, C.S.C, 249-169th St., Hammond, Ind.; assistant pastor, St. Joseph's rec­tory, 226 N. Hill St., South Bend, Ind.; JOHN J. CH/VVANNE, 360 Union St., Gary, Ind.; super­visor, prod, planning dept., U. S. Steel Corp., Gary Steel Works; married June 9, 1951; has five child­ren. LOUIS H. RIPP. 3366 W. Saratoga .Ave., Lit­tleton, Colo.; 1957 Colorado U.; section head on Titan ICBM, Martin-Denver; married Nov. 1952; has two cliildren. 
ROBERT A. EPPING, IIW Union St., Apt. 2, Scliencctady 8, N.Y.; mfg. engineer for Knolls Atomic Power Lab,; married June 21, 1958. AR­THUR LEE SHERID.\N, 202 East Main Street, Waukon, la.; 1952-54, Marquette Univ. LL.B.; at­torney, Sheridan & Sheridan; married Sept. 4, 1954; has three children. WILLL\.M K. HAYDEN ID., 27 Graham Park Rd., Triangle, Va.; Capt. U.S.M.C., currently competing In Marine Corps rifle and pistol matches at Camp Malthe%vs, Calif.; married June 21, 1952; has one son. 
HORACE P. \VOOD, 1200 Oakwood Dr., San Marino, Calif.; engineer at Wast King Corp., Technical Products Div., working on components for Atlas missile launching; married July 7, 1956; lias one daughter. JOHN K. GRANT, 280 Sunshine Acres Drive, Eugene, Ore.; manager with Oregon Leather Co.; married June 15, 1954; has three daughters. RAYMOND T. DUNCAN, 1908 Glen­islc Ave., Durango, Colo.; oil exploration; married June 24, 1953; has one son. ROBERT (BOB) K. HUNTER, JR., 17757 Arminta St., Reseda, Calif.; M.S., nuclear engineering, U. of Calif., 1957; rc­scarcli engineer, nuclear propulsion at Marquardt Corp., Astro Div.; married Oct. 2, 1954; has two cliildren. 
CONRAD TETRAULT, 2706 Larmon Drive, Nashville 4, Tenn.; sales rep. covering Tenn., Ala., .Ark-, Miss., and La. for General Electric Co.; mar­ried May 7, 1955; has one son. THOMAS J. BLAKELLY Catholic Service Bureau, Lyman BIdg., 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1960 29 
Muskegon, Mich.; 1954-56, U. of Mich.; Master ol 
Social ^Vo^k; social ^\•orkc^, field super\T5or for fam­
ily care program for mental patients; marital coun­
seling program; married April 11, 1933; has four 
diildrcn. THOMAS H. OBRECHT, 1791, Apt. D., 
Louia \Tsta, Riverside, Calif.; 1952-53; U. ol Mich., 
1956-57, Mich. State U. M.A.; teacher at Riverside 
City Schools; married Dec 1958. 
EUGENE J. AURKRAM, 1466 Hunter Lane, 
Clearwater, Fla.; senior engineer for Sperrj- Mlcro­
u-avc Electronics Co.; married Oct. 25, 1952; has 
three clilldren. LEO M. STEPANIAX, 328 Liberty 
St., Butler, Pa.; 1952-55 LL.B., U. of Pltuburgh 
law- scliool; attorney; married Dec. 26, 1953; has 
two chndrrn. DEXXIS B. DELANEY, 2693 Plne­
hurst Road, Muskegon, Mich.; business college in­
structor; married April 6, 1953; has three children. 
\VILLIAM B. N'ORMAN, JR., 530 E. 88th St., 
Xeu- Vork 28, X.Y.; asst. to sales mgr. accounting 
machine sales for Xatlonal Cash Register Co.; mar­
ried Sept. 6, 1958. JOHX R. MORAX, JR., 25W 
Elm St., Denver 7, Colo.; 1952-55 U. of Denver, 
LL.B.; attorney, associate member, Moran, Reldy 
& Vooriices; married Aug. 8, 1953; has four diild­
rcn. 
D.VXA FITZPATRICK, Ellicattville, X.Y.; part owner and mgr., Fltzpatrick & Wellcr, Inc., mfg. bowling pins and shoe last; married Dec 28, 1955; has tivo diildren. G. G. (GERRY) MEISELS, Union Carbide Nuclear Co., Sterling Forest Re­search Center, Tuxedo, X.Y.; 1951-52, if-S. dicm.; 1953-55, Ph.D. chcm.; 1955-56; postdoctoratc; re­seardi dicmist, radiation diem, and mass spcctrome­trv for nudcar reactor constr.; married June 28, 1958. JOSEPH A. B.\UTERS, 3420 Kent Lane, South Bend, Ind.; partner, Crowe, Chlzek & Co., C.P.A.'s; married Aug. 25, 1951; has four duldrcn-
JOSEPH D. I-AUFERSA\*EILER, 1383 Xell Ave., Columbus 1, O.; ^^.S., Ohio State U., 1952-54; 1956 to present Ohio State Grad. Sdiool; graduate stu­dent and assistant in botany and plant pathology; married Sept. 5, 1959. HARRY HEPPENHEIMER, 1737 Xorth Adams St., So. Bend, Ind.; attornc>' and C.P.-'X., spcdal lecturer Indiana U. Extension; married June 16, 1946; has three diildrcn. %\1L­LIAM D. FOTE, JR., 729 X. Union St.; Olean, X.Y.; partner, Fotc Construction Co.. general con­tracting; still single. LEE DOXDAX'\7LLE, 850 So, State St., Springfidd, III.; 1952-54 U, of IlL, M.S.; dn l cng. for consulting structural engineer­ing firm, Hanson, Collins & Rice, Inc.; married June 7, 1952; lias three diildrcn. 
CHARLES V. EDWARDS, JR., ^LD.,; 465 For­est Dr., Council Bluffs, la.; 1951-55, Crcighton U. Sdiool of Mcdldnc, M.D.; general practice with 12-man group, Coglcy Clinic; married Aug. 8, 1953; has three diildren. DOUGL.\S D. ROBERTSOX, 108 Garfidd Ave, Hyde Park 36, Mass.; LL.B. 
N. D., 1955; Internal Rev. Scrv. attorney; married Dec 23, 1950; has two diildren. RICHARD J. ^VOLLEXSAK, 1571 Culver Rd., Rochester, X.Y.; 1958 M.I.T.; project engineer, optical instrumenta­tlon. AVoIlensak Optical Co.; married Oct. 4, 1958. 
ROBERT A. STEWART, 9509 45th X. E., Seattle 15, Wash.; attorney. Bogle, Bogie 5: Gates; married July 25, 1953; has one diild. JOHX E. RICHARD, 2128 Clinton Place AVcst; Owensboro, Ky.; owner brick company (Owensboro Brick & "Hie Co.); mar­ried Jan. 27, 1951; has three children. 
RE\^ HERMAN* A. PORTER, S.C.J., 1950-52 M.A., English, X. D.; (Sacred Heart Fathers, home and foreign missions); Dean of Studies, Dlnnc Heart Scminar>-, Donaldson, Ind. MICHAEL C. DIONISE, 26 S. Main St., Lapeer, Midi.; general practice and prosecuting attv., Lapeer County; still single FATHER GERALD L. POTFER, Box MM, University Station, Grand Forks, X. D.; M8-'52, B.A., St. John's U. CoIIcgcville, Minn.; M.A. X. D. *52; chaplain. Catholic Student Center, and prof, of religion, Newman Foundation, U. of Xorth Dak. 
WILLIAM E. SEIDLER, 4817 California St., Onialia, Xeb.; 1954-57 Crcighton U. LL.B.; attor­ney with Fitzgerald, Hamcr, Brown & Lcaliv; mar­ried June 5, 1952; has four children. JIM 6*DAY, 801 Grant St., Wausau, Wis.; St. John's U., Col­legc\*ille, Minn., 1953-54; partner printing firm; mar­ried June 2, 1952; has five diildren. JOHX J. LA­BOE, 226 Colonial Dr.. Monroe, Midi.; Loyola U. SdiooI of Dcntlstrj- 1951-55; D.D.S.; general den­tistry; married Dec 15. 1956; has one daughter. 
JAMES DONALD REID. >LD., 440 North 'Wi­nona St.. Apt. 414, Indianapolis, Ind.; Indiana U. School of Medicine, 1952-56; resident in oplitlial­moIog>-, Ind. U. Med. Center; married May 18, 1957; has one daughter, JOHX C- XOYES, 5046 42d SA\', Seattle, AVash.; physicist mgr. space phy­sics, Boring Airplane Co.; married Sept. 5, 1953; has tlirec daughters. MALHAM M. WATKIN, 93 River St., Oneonta, X.Y.; U. of State of X.Y. at Albany, M.A. 1953; U. of So. Calif., Ph.D., 1959; 1st Lt. US.\F; instructor in philosophy, U.S. Air 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1960 
Force .\cademy; also rated navigator in USAF; as­sumed duties at AF Academy last summer; married Dec 26, 1954; has two daughters. 
a\PTAIX GEORGE E. OTFOTT, Junior Ofil­cers Sdiool, Quantico, Va.; serv'cd In U.S.>f.G. thirteen years; married Nov. 3, 1951; has four children. AVILLIAM A. SANTINI, JR., 3428 Hil­ton Drive, Mesquite, Tex.; M. Ch.E. from N.Y.U. 1956 and 2 years at Carnegie Tech.; member of technical staff, Rescardi DIv., Texas Instruments, Inc; married Aug. 27, 1955; has four diildren. HENRY J. BALLING, JR., 166 Walter Ave, Ton­awanda, N.Y.; U. of Buffalo 1955, no degree; sec-retar>*-treasurer of his own construction firm; mar­ried Sept. 17, 1955; has two children. 
JOHX D. EXCELS, 1231 George St., DcPere, Wis.; Univ. College, Dublin '55-'56; State U. ot Iowa; (M.F.A.) *56-'57; instructor In English at St. Norfaert College, \Vis.; married Feb. 1957; has one daughter. JOHN C. DOIROX, JR., iLD.. 46 Roscmont St., Dordicster, Mass.; 1951-55; George­town U. Med. School; resident physidan, general surgcrj* at V. A. Hospital, Boston, Mass.; married 1956; has t«-o sons. AVALTER JOSEPH FLMIAX, JR., 53 Hillside St., Watertown 72, -Xfass.; M. S., 
X. D. 1952; Ph.D., X. D., 1955; assistant prof, of biology, Boston College; married June 1950; lias two diildrcn. 
HARRY W. MILTON, JR., 2105 E. 25th St., Tulsa, Okla,; U. of Tulsa 1957-59, M.S. in petro­leum engineering; married Feb. 12, 1955; lias two diildrcn. ROBERT M. CROWE, 6914 Wilte Oak Ave, Van X'u>*s, Calif., company representative, .^ro Equipment Co. of Calif. (ox>-gcn equip, for Iiigh altitude aircraft, etc) married April 14, 1956; has tvvo diildren, probalilv three by now. JACK J. MAYL, 932 23d St., xiv, Washington 7, D.C.; 1958 LL.B., Georgetown Law; ass't to vice pres- at Atlantic Researdi Corp. (research and development in rockets, missiles, etc); still single 
MxVURICE JOSEPH BATES, 121 Beech Ave, Fanwood, N. J.; 1955-57; Georgetown Law, LL.B.; contract attorney. Esse Research &. Engineering Co.; married Dec 27, 1952; has three children. AN­GELO J. "TEX" CARUBBI, 1908 North Duight, Pampa, Tex.; U. of Texas, 1954-58; LL.B.; assod­ate with Gordon, Gordon & Bussard; civil, estate and tax work; married May 11, 1957; has one daughter. 
FRED H. FRiVNCKE, 716 Jefferson, Grants, N. Mex.; senior accountant for Ilomestake-Sapin Part­ners; operating uranium processing mill and urani­um mines; married Feb. 7, 1953 at the Log Chapel; has three children. JOEL F. WELLS, 827 Colfax Ave, Evanston, 111.; advertising and promotion mgr., book dub, magazine, book store; magazine urlling on assignment and freelance, Tliomas More Assn.; married June, 1952; has three children. J/VMES O, HORRIGAX, 109 Fir, Park Forest, III., 
U. of Chicago, '56; M.B.A.; 1958 to date. Ph.D. program, business sdiool; asst. prof.. College of Commerce, Notre Dame (accounting and finance); married X'ov. 25, 1955; has two children; (Jim's on leave from X^ D., working on doctorate). 
JIM LUND, 1638 Oaklawn Place, BUoxi, Miss.; general news reporter. The Dally Herald, past 454 years; married early 1958; son Tliomas Patrick, bom prcmaturdy, died Oct. 10, 1958. OSa\R FRx\XClS BEUMEL, JR., 8 Madbury Court, Dur­ham, N. H.; U. of X*ew Hampshire, 1955 to pres­ent, working for degree in organic diemistry; ac­cepted a position as researdi chemist with Foote Mineral Co. in Ben\'yn, Pa.; married June 30, 1956; has three diildrcn. (FRANCIS H.) HANK PHE­LAN, 4440 Linddl Blvd., St. Louis 8, Mo.; com­mercial loan ofiicer, Bonk of St. Louis; married Sept. 26, 1959. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: (Ed Note: If you've filled out a questionnaire and don't appear above, please don't despair. Sec­retary' HARRY BUCH, who missed the Class Sec­retaries Conference because of a prior commitment with tlie AVcst Virginia legislature, submitted news about everybody in January for this abbreviated is­sue. Risking a certain amount of staleness, we've saved a dozen pages of that material for the next issue and continue with spot news Items belov**. J.L.) Geologist ROBERT T. CARVILLE of Houston, Tex., son of the late E. P. CARVILLE, '09, was killed in an auto acddent on N^evv Year's Day, Profound sjTnpathy to Bob's wife Yvonne, who sur­vives with four diildrcn. Your prayers are request­ed for Bob and for the father of BOB MAZIAR, Oil Cit>-, Pa., who was reported to be seriously ill. 
Late in January defensive end CHET OSTROW­5ICI announced his plans to retire from professional football after six seasons with the AVashington Red­skins. Chet, a Chlcagoan, hopes to get into coach* ing. FRiWK GRUESEN announced that he and his spouse had been blessed with a daughter la^t Nov. 10. JIM ETLIXG, the Hammond, Ind., C.P.A., bemoaned the lack of class news in Decem­ber, unaware of tlic secretary's labors. Jim has [our kids and a new home 
JAMES B. POWERS, ^ft. Vernon, N.Y., has been appointed to the home ofiice (Madison Ave.) sales staff at Parade, the Sunday newspaper maga^^i 
zine, after two years a^ ' Eastern marketing man­ager. Jim has worked for Procter & Gamble m New York and /Vmerican Thread Co. in Connecti­cut. He married Pat Byrne in 1958, and they now have a daugliter, Susan. ERNEST J. KXA­PIK recently joined the cost accounting staff at 
C. P. Clare & Co. ii«^ Chicago. Ernie lives a " 
J. B. Powers 4814 W. Augusta Blvd. In 
Cliicago with his vAic Carole and two sons, Glenn and Gar>'. 
TED HIXCHMAN has been named district sales representative for Cedar Rapids' Link-Belt Speeder Corp. in Texas, Oklahoma and part of Mexico. The Hindimans live near Dallas with their children, Joann, Ted, Jr., and Sucann. 
1 95 3  Thomas W. Reedy  
•''^' '  337 Wagner Rd.  ( '  
Northfield, HI.  

From the Alumni Ofiice: 
S>-mpathy to Mr. and Mrs. TOM ECKL/VND of Peoria, HI., on the loss of their tlirce-month-old daughter Mary Brigtd through a sudden illness on Fdi. 2. Tlicre is consolation in the fact that the dass has someone to pray to, rather than for. 
Congratulations to JOHN T. H/\STINGS, pro­moted to assistant to the manager of the industrial sales dixision of Tlie Dobcckmum Co. In Cleveland, 
O., a division of Thi^ | Dow Chemical Co. A " former marine officer, Jolin has been with Do­bcckmun and Dow for the past five years in Chicago and New York, most recently as a super­visor of sales [or the tex­tile fibers department. He'll reside at 15 9 8 Northland .-\vc., Lakc­\vood, O., with wife Su­zanne and three boys, ^ Kevin, 6; Brian, 4, onA))J. T. Hastings Daniel, 1. 
THOMAS XELSOX was recently appointed so­licitor for the Cambria County, Pa., Institution District. JACK FIXK was given the Huntington, Ind., Jaycees' Distinguished Service Award on Jan. 26 for outstanding community scr\-ice. Editor of Family Digest magazine and associate editor of Our Sunday Visitor, Jack has been United Fund and Chamber of Commerce piiblldty diairman. Republi­can city diairman, a director of the Community Nativity Festi\-als and Civic Music Assn., president of his parish CCD and the LaFontainc Country Club, member of Rotarj-, Catholic Press Assn.A~y Magazine Publishers Assn., K, of C, etc Jack and^ Ills wife Marie have three children, two girls and a boy. 
On Dec 28, 1939, HAROLD SWEEP was mar­ried to Miss Catherine O'Hcam in Buifalo, N.Y-Catherine, a Michigan State grad, has been one of Betty Crocker's home economists In Minneapolis. Harold has been working for Prudential in Minne­apolis while attending law sdiool. WALTER SWIFT was the best man. 
JOSEPH A. C2ERWINSKY is moving to StA-\ Louis as a sales engineer for Antara Chemicals,' dycstuff and diemlcal sales for General Aniline &. Film Corp. Formerly a chemist for Intcrchcmical Corp., Joe Joined Antara in 1957 as a sales trainee, was moved to Chicago last year as a sales ccrre­spondent. 
Here's some news about l953's ad\-anced degree contingent: 
DR. HUNG HAN Y.\XG. better known to thc|)) chemical engineers with wliom he got his master's as HARRY Y^VNG, is now the father of Stephen Clyde Yang, born last tall. Harry got his doctorate at Micliigan and was married in 1958. 

DR. PANOS D. BARDIS, soc-ologist-novelist­poct-mathcmatician- anthropologist-journalist- statisti­cian-educator-short story writer and specialist in several other things that. only the Greeks could have words for, has added an editor's eyeshadc to his hat collection. Dr. Bardis, who got his master's 
^vith the doss in 5ociolog>* and is now an associate 
Ifirofessor at the University of Toledo, became edi­tor of Social Science, quarterly journal of Pi Gam­ma Mu social science honorary, last summer. Other publications last year included an article on his specialty, "A Fomilism Scale,'* in Marriage and Family Living and a bit of doggerel verse in the Assn. of American Colleges Bulletin in which Panos kidded the hidebound profs who give the same ex­ams to three or four generations of students. Panos lives at Toledo's faculty apartments with wife Car­ole Elaine, whom he met while at N. D. 
DR. FRvVXCIS BALDWIN, who earned his doc­torate in physical chemistry as a teaching fellow P|n physics, is now a research associate in the ciiem­
icals division of Esso Research & Engineering Co. The title is a recognition of Frank's proficicnc)* in polymer research; lie has written eight papers in the field and has been awarded 19 patents. 
I OC d George A. Pllatim, Jr, "* 1705 Harvard Blvd. Dayton 6, Ohio 
After five years, news of the class is quite hard 
to come by. However, as I face this deadline I am piortunate in .having a bit of very startling news. S^hc impossible has happened, the :ky has fallen, 
the seas have parted — JAKE NOON.AN is getting married. Details on this are drifting slowly out of Sioux City, so the only thing I have definitely at this writing is that his intended is a charming young lady from SpringiieW, III. I can't help but wish her best of luck and lengthy patience as she assumes the roommate headache that plagued me for three ye:trs. Details regarding this event are scarce but it is safe to assume that after all the festivities surrounding this marriage arc over, it will make the recent Ford Debutante Party seem like just a neigitborhood gathering. 
» Another bit of startling news was received In landsorae engraving and read as follows: "Mr. and Airs. Frank H. LcnnoN request the honour of voiir presence at the marriage of their daughter. \[a:­garet Louise, to Mr. EUGENE WILLIAM HOW­LEY on Saturday, the second of January", One thousand nine hundred and sixty at half after eleven o'clock. Saints Fallh, Hope and Charity Church, Winnetka. Illinois." BILL GUILFOILE passed on some news from New York after having visited there with his wife over Christmas. He sends the following: PHIL BOLIN is still with Young & Rubicam Advertising handling some television accounts. JOE IMBRIACO Jias passed both the New York and New Jersey bar P.xanis and is working with the Harrison Durant law firm in Newark. DAVE GILSDORF has ac­cepted a fellowship to teach engineering at Mon­tana State College. BOB WALL^VCE was married December 26 to Miss Mildred Murphy in Moores­town, N.J . TOM PARSLEY has accepted head football coach position at Crystal Lake High Sdiool in Cr>-5tal Lake. 111. PAT CARRICO Is a reporter for the Denver Post where he is assigned to the city news desk. BOB ZEIS Is an advertising salesman for the same paper. Thanks, Bill, you continue to serve as a good example of the tv-pc of correspond­ent this column needs. I Alice and GENE HENRY are living at 10223 Vrado Vista Drive, Cupertino, Calif. Their second child and first son, Tlieron Joseph, was born on December 24. Gene is working on a Ph.D. in elec­trical engineering at Stamford University and hopes to graduate In June, RICH HOHM/\N and family are silll In Hawaii with tlie Marines. Rich reports that last fall BILL MORLEY and his wife spent some time with them while they were Iioncyniooning on the Islands. Rich's address is 1345 Akiki, Kailua Heights, Oahu. Hawaii. From even further west than there, I had ft nice note at Christmas from L/\RRY GOTUACO. l^rrj* sent along an attractive picture of his wife, Patricia, and his two clilldrcn, Andrew and Mclanic. Tljcy Hvc at P.O . Box 1254, Manila, Philippine Islands. I thought I started early In promoting our last reunion a year alicad of lime, but Larr>* indicates that he has cvcr>- intention of making our 20-year reunion. BOB McGLYNN dropped a note at Christmas |ime from his home at 2002 Monroe, Pullman, Washington. Bob is serving as administrator of Memorial Hospital in that city. 
1 received a few other interesting cards at Christ­mas and for the benefit of your own records, I am passing along the addresses that were contained on them. Mr. and Mrs. W. D. REYNOLDS, 7340 N. Ridge Avenue, Chicago 45, III.; Mr. and Mrs. LEROY BAZ.\NY, 1458 -Michcle, Palatine, III.; CHARLES R. TILLEY, JR., 838 Third Street, 0.x­nard, CaliL; Mr. and Mrs. JACK F. PITTAS, 4419 Mcdford Drive, Annandale. Va,; Mr. and Mrs. ROCKNE MORRISSEY, 6306 Fairhurst, Cincinnati 13, Ohio; and Mr. and Mrs. BILL MORLEY, 7S18 Ridge Avenue—I5C, Chicago 45, III. 
.Another piece of engraved stationery' bears the following news: "Colonel and Mrs. Harry Ward George Vadn;us announce the marriage of their daughter, Sally Marie, to JOHN JEFFREY KEE­NAN, Captain, U.S.M.C., on Saturday, the 28lh of November, nineteen hundred and fifty-nine, Camp Lejeune, North Carolina." 
I also received a note that I prefer to repeat be­low In full: 
"JOB ORDER No. 1. Production Specification Schedule: Name of Cuslomer(s): Anne and BILL MEYER. Address: 431 Browns Lane Apt. 208, Pitts­burgh 37, PcnnsyU-anla. Nature of Business: Family Building (Small). Article: Babv Boy. Quantity: 
"One. Size: 5 lb. 12 oz. Title: WIHam John (Billy). Description: Blond Ifair, Blue Eyes, Loud Voice, Big Appetite. Art Furnished by: Slothcr. Stock furnished by: Father. Delivery Date: Promised 10­17-59, Actual 9-30-59. We beat that deadline! Com­position: Ver>* masculine—you know the t>"pe! Press-work: For details contact Mother. Bindery-& Fin­ishing: Expertly done; completely self-covered; sev­eral small perforations; complex folding. Special Wrapping: Moisture proof rc-wrap required fre­quently; some leakage unavoidable. Shipping: Spe­cial Handling; very fragile. Production Supcr\'isor: Dr. John M. Sadler. Office Information: Reprint likely? Possibly. How Soon? Customers avoided direct answer. Should Plates Be Saved? No—cus­tomers prefer to produce each job completely from scratch." 
Additional contributors to the population explo­sion in recent montlis were D.AVE ME^VGHER and wife who welcomed Patrick Louis last fall. JOHN and .MARGO GROSSPIETSCH welcomed Thomas Ed\%'ard about the same time. 
JOHN G. SETTER, M.D. of 2012 N. Daniel St., Arlington 1, Va., sent the following: "My wife and I would like to announce the birth of a son, John George Setter, Jr., on October 10 in Wash­ington, D.C. 
"I ^^-as graduated from the Medical College of South Carolina in June of this year. My wife (the former Gail Sloan of Aiken. S. C.) and I moved to Washington in July so that I could begin a year of internship at Georgetown University Hospital." 
That wraps up this report. The next one could be longer if- you'd take some time tonight to drop me a note. 
YEAR REUNION Class of '55 JUNE 10-11-12 

IOCC Thomas F. 0*MalIey ' ^ 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Afo. 
AVclI, Gentlemen, greetings again from this side of the Mississippi. Sending anotlicr note your way gives me the opportunity of mentioning the reunion again. If you don't know by now, the dates arc June 10, 11, and 12, on the campus. This is the big one for us because the attendance at this one sets the pattern for the years to follow. They say that if you start from the beginning, it gets in your blood and you don't miss many after that. Needles:; to say, a big time Is going to be had by all and it would be a shame to miss it. Start sav­ing your sick leave now so you can have the re­union fever in June. ' 
I've got some news to report so I'll get off the subject for a time. You can bet that I'll wander back to it shortly. LOU CEN'TLIVRE is a reunion registrant for sure and wrote to fill me In on the news in the Fort \Vaync area. Lou is working for the Bonsib Advertising Agenc>' and he and his wife, Gaylc, were expecting a chiltl type one in Novem­ber. I haven't heard any news on this yet. Lou 
posses along the news to follow. 
BOB HUNECK viis married September 15 in ^farion, Ind. Congratulations. Lou was the best ­man and I'm sure that he saw to it that Bob was married In fine style. Before'dosing his letter, Lou mentioned that he was anxious to hear from I>ONN DUFFY who had signed a correspondence pledge . in blood with him. at the Colfax Bar and Friendly House. Get one in the mail soon, Donn. 
DICK SCHEIBELHUT sent in a welcome con­tribution to the column and reports that he is Working at the Ford Motor Co. assembly plant in Chicago. Before going uith Ford, Dick had spent two years tn the Na\'y and then some time with the BcndLx Missile plant in Mishawako. Dick brought rac up to date on the names to follow. JOE SHILTS spent two years ^vith the Army in Korea and then returned to get his master's in civil en­gineering at N. D. DON KISKA also spent two years in the Navy after graduation and is currently working in South Bend for an accounting firm. ^Vibon, N.C., still has a hold on FRED MAROON, and he is working there as a zone manager for In­vestors Diversified. During the past summer he was kept quite bus>' assisting in the Miss North Carolina contest and managed a few trips to South Bend. TOM POZZI is working for the Bendix Missile plant in South Bend. These boys certainly won't have far to travel for the reunion and should be a great help to the other grads who have forgotten their way around the toun. ^Vord has It that the Philadelphia hasn't clianged a bit. Joer's is worried about the competition on reunion week­end. 
Good to get a letter from PETE RTTTEN and ^velcome it was since I had lost track of my old soccer buddy. /\s you all know from post columns, Pete was stationed with the Army in Paris and he was certainly relieved when his time was up. Some-tiling like that could get boring in a short time. Since he was released from the Army, Pete has been xnth tlic Louis N. Ritten Co. as a commodity broker. He has been an active trader for over a year at the Minneapolis Grain Exchange, dealing In grain futures. He married Miss Mary McFarland last June and quite a few of the old timers at­tended. Seen in the group were JIM BARRY who is dealing in industrial real estate; GEORGE KLUEGEL who is now selling Hre insurance; ED STENGER, now with IBAf; CHRIS FLYNN, selling cars for a Cadillac agency; BUCKY J.ANSSKf, now with the advertising department of Hamm's Brew­er\-, and ART SULLIVAN, who is selling life in­surance. In closing his letter, Pete Ritten lists him­self as a sure bet to attend the reunion. 
PAUL FULL>fER checked in just as regular as cIockAv-ork and did his usual fine job of adding to the column. Paul is still in public relations work in Chicago and has been kept qiute busy with his duties as a member of the board of governors for the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. The news to follow is from Paul's letter. GEORGE RIORDAN is with the traffic dept. of the Brach's Candy Co. TOM HAYES b still on the go selling commercial paper for Knox & Schneider. DICK BEE.MAN hasn't gotten too far away from radio work since 
N. D. and is notv a time salesman for station WBBM in Chicago. JL\I GRIFFIN is attending Lo>'ola Law School and is working in the account­ing dept. of the Continental Illinois National Bank. MIKE WARD is a reporter for Life Newspapers in LaGrange. JIM EHRET is back in Chicago after ser\-ing some time in the Navy. The Chia^o Club had a golf outing, and JERRY PRASS.AS finished low with a 79. Abo on the course that flay — but no mention made of the scores—were TOM DRIS­COLL, RICK HICKS, PAUL PFOHL, ED SCHNEIDER, LOU ZEFRAN, and FRANK MAIER. 
LARRY BREHL checked in with some real good news and reported that he and his wife. Dot, are now tlie parents of a son, Darid Ed^'ard. Con­gratulations to them both. Larry mentions that BOB MOORE spent some time with DuPont in Texas but is now with the Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory just outside Pittsburgh. He and his 'wife and t^vo children have purchased a home in Can> onsburg. Pa. CHUCK DOHERTY is out of the Na\y and is working for an accounting firm in Pittsburgh. JIM COPPERSMITH sends greetings from Milwaukee, \Vi5., and I have to thank you for writing again, Jim, after not haWng >-our let­ter mentioned two years ago. I don't have any Idea how it happened but one of these days I'll be cleaning out my desk drawers and find >'our lutte. Rather than u-ait until then, I'll mention that Jim is now an attorney in ^liln'aukee and from the tone of his letter, is keeping quite busy. Being a lawyer, Jim, maybe you can tell me why Perry 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 31 
lllason never lost a case. Is this another one ol those TV fixes? Jim and his wife now have two daughters, and he mentions that ^VALT McKENNA did it the easy v^'ay as he and }iis wife arc the parents of twins. Walt is with the Pricc-Watcrhouse Co. Jim also ices MIKE FILLICHIO occasionally -M^ien he comes in tou*n on business. Mike is with Commercial Credit Corp. 
From up north, something besides cold weather took shape in the form of a letter from DICK CALLAH.^N, ^vho is now living in Wnnjpcg, Can­ada. Dick spent some time in the Xa\y and ivent to work for Scars & Roebuck vvlicn he was released. He then went to Ulnnipeg to marr\' Miss Elaine Stevenson and now works as an account executive for CockFicld, Brown & Co., Ltd., an advertising agency- in the area. Tlie items to follow arc from Dick's letter. DAN McCULLOUGH is living in Calgary and is sales manager of the family's Ford agency there. BERXIE SMYTH married Dan's sis­ter and IS working for the FBI in Chicago. DAN' WILSON and his wife now have four children, and he is working for the Wilson Dwry Co. in Atlantic Cit>-. FRANK OL^VZABAL was married last June and is stilt studying medicine at Johns Hopkins U. BILL OTOOLE, anotlicr Johns Hopkins mcd stu­dent, was involved in rcscarcli tvork at Oak Ridge, Tenn., last spring. 
^\HATE\^R HAPPENED TO . . . RON AUER, JOHN CASEY, TONY PASQUESI, BUD KOONS, DICK NEIDERRITER, BOB KUNZE, WALT ZOTTER, JOHN .MURRAY, JOE DALEY, GENE MARQUETTE, TUCK .McCOY, \\'ALT MA­KUCK, and TOM GALLAGHER? 
JOHN RUSSO dropped me a line and mentioned that he is working as a law secretary* to Justice C. Thomas Schcttino of the New Jersey Supreme Court. John had prcnously graduated from Colum­bia Law Scliool, and lie and Iiis wife have a daughter, Kathleen Mary, and another one due around reunion time. Newborns permitting, John is planning on making the reunion and is looking for^vard to swapping baby pictures with the other *'pops." TIic class of '55 can certainly boast its share of tlie attorney population; another member of the dub is RON SMITH, who is now with the finn of Steams and Kampmcyer in Saint Paul. Ron and Miss Mary Kathryn Joyce were married last June, and there was quite a Notre Dame tm'nout at the affair. By the way, belated congratulations and best wishes to you both. Ron reports the news to follow. HARRY EDELSTEIN and his wife, Ree, just added another daughter, Laurie May, to the family. Congratulations. Harry* is selling stock for Merrill, Lynch, etc, etc, etc., etc. ED FOX served a little time with the Army and is now working for tlic Internal Revenue Service. Tliat, boys, is where my money* goes. JOHN ROGERS is with the Marines, and he and his wife are sta­tioned at the ilarine base in San Diego, Calif, JIM \VILSON and his wife, TcrrVj arc now well settled in their new home in St. Paul, where Jim works for the advertising department of radio sta­tion WCCO. Tliey have three cliildren. From way, way, vvay out West I received a free package of Gillette Blue Blades and a bottle of Tliorcxin Cough Medicine with no return address, but it could only be from one person, JACK SOR/VNNO- For that plug. Chunk, I'll expect a year's supply of both. Jack is working for the Gillette Company and he and his xvifc, Arlcnne, arc living in Sherman Oaks, Calif., which is a suburb of Los .Angeles. Have faith, Jack, that letter is practically on its way, ahnost. 
Items ria the Alumni Office: .Apologies to JOHN HUGHES, whose name was inadvcricnily omitted from the reunion roster, who now has a new ad­dress (2834 S.W. Paiion Rd,, Portland 1, Ore), and who was married to Sallv Farlow of Tacoma, Wash., last Oct. 3. Congrats. J. E. LT. Jg. FRED­ERICK C. ECKHART, JR., has moved to 207G Betsy Dr., Jacksonville 10, Fla. Fred is head of o£Bccr programs at Jacksonville Navy Recruiting Station; he married Miss Sarali Jane Pasch of Hon­olulu last xAug. 1 at the Catholic Chapel, Pearl Harbor. JIM STE\'^ENS, with Massadiusetts Mu­tual in Detroit, took an underwriter's course re­cently at the home office in Springfield, Mass. Criminologist RAY GALVIX, presently a researdi librarian at Provost Marshal General Sdiool, Fort Gordon, Ga., discussed "Problems in Police Ad­ministration" at December's annual meeting of the American Sodety of Criminology in Chicago, a hot topic for that town. Before becoming an M.P. he was a police administration consultant. BERNIE SMITH has been transferred from Chicago to the Spokane Office of Continental Baking as personnel mgr. and has become an active member of tlie K. D. Club of Spokane, Wash. Air Force lawyer VIN­CENT J. RAYMOND, now a captain with the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 

Judge Advocate General's office in Paris, France, expects to see some buddies on the N. D. European Pilgrimage this spring and may form an N. D. Club of Paris uiih U.S . Embassy Aide AWRTIN Mc-Lx\UGHLIN, '41. Vincc and Mary' Ann arc e.x­pccttng a third addition. They met VINCE Mc-ALOON, '34, in Rome last spring. Capt, Ray­mond's office is at 22 rue de la Trcmoille, Paris 8— telephone BALzac 5400, cxt. 386. One of dass Ph.D.'s, E.MIL BANAS, is a Standard Oil project chemist ia Whiting, Ind. Emil recently reported on 3 new nudear method of analyzing petroleum. 
Tliis just about wraps up tlic column for this time, fellow rcunionilcs, but I'll be looking for neiv-s from you to fill the next one. Again I'll men­tion, although you've probably gotten the idea by now, that the reunion will be here very soon and the time to decide to go is now. Make your plans, (uinlact your cronies, reserve a stool in Joer's, and pack your bag. Let's not have it said about you, "Whatever happened to. . . ." Adios. 
1956 •^*'^" ^' ^^^^ 

5697 N. Lincoln Ave Chicago 45, Illinois From the Alumni Office: Pressed uith law exams and hogtied by the brev­ity of this issue. Secretary JOHN DEASY lias by­passed this issue to conser\'c enough material for the next, around July, ^feanwhilc he au>aits some word from YOU. 
A couple of spot news items follow: 

LT. Jg. BILL BRENNAN has been released from the Na\y after three years of service. With his wife, Barbara Sdicttig Brennan (St. Mary's, '56), and two sons, John and Michael, Bill has moved Irom San Frandsco to Royal Oak, Mich., where he's employed by Midugan Bell Telephone. John and Mike, by the way, will be third generation Notre Darners as grandsons of JOHN BRENNAN, 
•27, and DON SCHETTIG, '30. 
Some dassmates should remember BILL Mc^LA­NUS, who started diem engineering in '52 and now turns up as a production trainee with U. S. Gypsum in Clark, N. J. Recently married. Bill and his wife Elaine set up housekeeping in Gar­wood, N. J. 
Tlie organization of the South Bend law firm of Butler & O'Mallcy w*as announced last fall by J. PATRICK O'MALLEY of the Law Class, and PAUL BUTLER, '27, a Ia^\Tcr for 33 years, known to all as diairman of the Democratic National Committee. Pat, until recently an officer on duty with tlie >rarines, is married to the former Miss Maureen Butler, daughter of his senior partner in the general practice of law. 
1957 Jack Casey ' 5918 N. Rockwell Chicago, Illinois 
Don Barr 5725 N. East Circle Avenue Chicago 31, Illinois 
Winter snows in the Midwest seem to have driven some of our fellow grads to the far West. To men­tion a few, PAT CONWAY lias finislicd Stanford's Graduate Sdiool and is now working in Garden Grove, Calif. DON RENIER is working in Los .An­geles lor an Insurance firm. JIM KIWUS is sta­tioned at Edi\"ards Air Force Base. JlXf O'NEILL, anotlier ^linncsota man, is now married and work­ing in Albuquerque, N. Mcx. Tlic O'Neills arc ex­pecting their third diild shortly, and this should put tiiem close to the lead in that department. 
BOB MAY stopped in Chicago recently on lu& way to Rodiestcr, Minn., after his release from Ft. Mcide, Md., and the U. S. Army. Other Rodies­tcr friends of ours who liavc been heard from arc JIM KE.NNEDY at St. Louis U. Med. Sdiool and ROGER DALY, who is married now and working in Rodiestcr. 
JACK MO^TCAILVN was married last September and it 'was a diance for a few of the boys to get togetlier and hoist a few (quite a few; ask Jack's father-in-Iaw, who got stuck with the hill). .Any­\vay, those in attendance induded SKIP JOHNSON (.VorUiwcstern Mcd. Sdiool) and JOHN SLEVIN 
(N. D. La\v School). Tliey tverc Jack's immediate support. In the unreserved dicering section we found CHUCK GRACE, JOHN "DEALS" Mc­.MEEL, JACK CASEY, GEORGE HANDLEY, and DON BARR. Incidentally, CHUCK GR/VCE and JOHN SLEVIN arc proud fathers of a boy and girl respectively. Sounds Uke a good combination. 

Our skies arc being patrolled by a few of our men. TOM BRENNAN is flying for the Air Force and AL DANT is on the Na^-y payroll." AL and DICK SWIFT flew out to South Bend for the Southern. Cal game. Dick is stationed out East in the boon-docks uith the U.S.M.C. FRANK HEN­NESSEY is doing intelligence work in the Air Force. 
We are being equally well protected on land and sea by U.S. Marines CONNIE LrVNE, FRANl^ BROPHY, and PAT WLLLVMSON. Virgina beadW' has some notables like JOE REICH and DIXIE LEWIS. JACK CROWXEY is aboard the U.S.S. Ranger, a carrier in the Pacific, and K. J, PHE­LAN is down in Athens, Ga., in Supply School. PAT SHERRIN and BILL (RED) RYDER have recently joined Unde Sam's group down at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. 
Down Indianapolis way wc find JERRY MUR­PHY stationed at the Na\y Ord. Plant. DON Mc-MANA is finishing his first year of law school. JERRY BECKERT and JAKE KIEFER are sdling steel (when they have it to sdl). BILL MOONEYj> recently opened a ski shop. BILL McGOWAN i^ ' working very hard at the insurance game these days. JIM GORMLEY was recently married and is now working in Washington, D. C. DON STUHLDRE­HER has moved to Columbus, Indiana. BILL HOLLAND and JIM NORTON both left the ranks and got married this past year. Some of the other married men indude sudi notables as TOM SHEE­HAN, TOM (TIGER) .MULa\HEY, TOM DOYLE, TOM HALEY, JOE RINK, TOM O'­BRYAN, ED MURPm', JIM O'SULLIVAN, FRANK REILLY, PAT CONWAY, and JIM DRIS­COLL. 
Our most respected dassmatc, JOHN SMYTH^. has been studving for the priesthood. GEORG ^ STRAKE has Joined BUD MALLOY at Har\-ard Business Sdiool. George is now the proud father of a 7 pound, ll-ounce fullback. 
Still diccking in nightly at N. D. for law work are, JOHN BEGGAN and BOB BL/VKEY. MILT MONK graduated last June. I. U. has some of our boys downstate Indiana way. JACK O'DROB­INAK and BILL ^\*ADDICK. Other law men are GUS LUEPKE at St. Louis U.; JOHN CUSAK, Midugan; ED DEAN, Fordham; &VRROL DOYLE, Columbia; JIM FITZGER/\LD, Detroit; TOM O'­BRYAN, Loyola, and GEORGE GROBLE. CHAR­LIE O'CONNELL was recently spotted in Chica3(|i) on his xvay to St. Paul, Minn., to work with an ' insurance firm there. Hal Blakeslee is out of the na\y now and working for Johnson ^fotors. 
Help. . . -Help. . . .Help. . . . This coliinin depends upon you supplying the information and let's try and make it the most informing column in the book. Please write a note to either Jack Casey or Don Barr in Chicago telling us about yourself and all the guys you have been in touch with,—we would appreciate it. 
From the Alumni Office: JOHN T. CUSACK, taking law at Michigan a^". mentioned above, noticed the apparent una\*ailabil' ity of Secretary PAT WILLIAMSON and volun­teered some notes about himself and others from the dass who arc seniors at U. of Michigan Law Sdiool. JOHN BURE represented Michigan in the national Moot Court Competition. TOM HILLI­GAN is treasurer of the Delta Theta Phi legal fra­ternity. Cusack himself is a member of the execu­tive council of the Lawyer's Club, residence for Michigan law students. Tlianks, John. Also at Michigan as a grad student is THOM/VS J. SCHREIBER, probably the most learned member of the dass. Tom already has two master's degrees from Michigan, an M.S. in clicm. engineering ^nili') an M.A- in math; now he is working for his Ph.D.," sponsored for the third consecutive year by N.S.F. prcdoctoral grants. 
\VILLIAM C. WATSON has joined TV Guide Magazine as a promotion representative with the Indiana edition. Bill lives in Indianapolis and has worked for College Life Insurance and Capital Pa­per Co. WILLIAM R. JEHLE recently joined the engineering staff of Tonawanda Laboratories of the Lindc Co. di\ision of Union Carbide, Tonawanda, 
N.Y. He has been an army lieutenant and a fiel(L-^^ engineer for llic Fluor Corp., Ltd. *.' 
From Uic Services: LT. JOHN STEVENSON has completed a tour with the Army Signal Supply Agency in Philadelphia and gone back to manage­ment training with American Tel and Tel in Cleve­land, to wife Maureen and l&-month-old son John. EDWARD CHOTT is \viih the Fifth Destroyer Squadron, now at Coronado, as staff commander and aide to the commodore in charge of communi^-v cations. La&t Hcpt. 26 he married Maureen Herb­striti, whose dad is an alumnus. THOMAS P. BERG ii a second lieutenant assigned to the Air Force Ballistic Missile Division in California, work­ing on the Thor, Atlas, Titan and Minuteman mis­siles. Tom was formerly an aeronautical engineer with BcndK in South Bend. LT. THONfAS E. KANE is in flight tnuning at Pensacola, liaving soloed recently. 
195 8 ^^*^"'* ^- Roulc, Jr. 1709 Indiana Avenue LaPortc, Indiana 
Tmic rolls on and so must this column, so here is your secrctari''s latest attempt at compiling and disseminating as much of the news of the last few months as has reached his eager cars. As the first matter of business let me say "thanks" to those of you who sent me Christmas cards, many of which contained notes of interest conccrnins the senders. 
^Among those sending their greetings were DICK 
^KWAK, JOHN HIRSCHFELD, DON CORBETT, DON ANDRYSIAK and family, DICK KOHLER, DAVE HOLTHOUSE and family, HARRY WA­SOFF, HOOT WALSH, BILL STURGIS, H.\NK ZANG. JIM FOLEY, BILL aVHILL, and DON ROXEY. 
Some sad neu's has reached us during the past months too, namelv the deaths of the fathers of JOE RICH and DAVE MICHAUX. Masses were oftcrcd at the request of the class and I know I can speak for the class in assuring the families of our prayers. 
DON RONEY wrote some months ago about his 
^?ostser\-ice life in Salt Lake City. He has landed a job with a large insurance company whicli does a large amount of business in the western states and with wliicli he is very hpapy. It seems that he is in some sort of training program. Don reported on his trip to New Jersey last September with DREW AMAN for the nuptials of DON BAIER. Don married Audma Costello of East Orange. N, J. Best man was BOB BAIER, *54; Messrs. Roney, Aman, and RUSS HOPKINS scr\'ed as ushers for the affair. 
Other news from Mr. Roncv was to the efTcct tliat JOHN BENVEGNU, abo from Salt Lake, 
|. was married last September to Miss Bcmadettc 
pWalz; and that AL FLORIN was (as of early fall) finishing his six-month program of higher education at Fort SiU. 
After mucli delay I am happy to be able to in­sert some news from H/\NK ZASG from whom I have heard twice since the last edition of this col­umn. At his first writing Hank was still stationed at "Fort Lost in the AVoods, Miser>'," as he so imaginatively puts it. He had gone through basic with DON LOPEZ and JERRY HIPSKIND. Jerr>­had, however, retired from the .Armv before Mr. Zang and his fellow militarists TERRY WARD, DUANE SALKELD, and BOB FORSBURG. Ocio­
fcbcr 24 brought release and a happy return to ciw-
Pttan h'fc to this not-ovcrly-warlike group. Hank^s tour of duty was not without reu-ard. I am happy to say. He w*a5 taught to be a truck driver and graduated as v-aledictorian of his class. 
Hank also sent along some bits of news of other classmates. JOE FOREM.-\N Is working as a pub­lic relations and sales promotion man for a Cana­dian breiverj*. TOM GOZDECKI married a home­town girl last October (sorry I can't report more specific details, but I have none). CHARLEY KILB is stationed in North Africa with the Air Force, and his old roommate ANDY CLfXRK took some time out from his graduate studies at Illinois to 
^'carn cooking at Fort Wood. DON FOLEY has completed his graduate schooling and has a posi­tion on the faculty at East Molinc (Illinois) High School. And LEE HINDERSCHEID, according to Hank is waxing fat while awaiting the arrival of a second child. Many thanks Hank for the ab\mdant news. I could use some more .reporters of your caliber. . . (I almost neglected to mention that Hank is currently working for Radio Station WKEI in Kewance, Illinois, as program director.) A note on the Christmas card from Carol and 
|DAVE HOLTHOUSE brings the news that the 
"HOUIIOUSCS arc expecting a daughter in May who will expand the family to four. Son Joe arrived in December of 1958. 
BILL STURGIS, another Christmas card corre­spondent reported from Fort Greeley, .Alaska, that he was feeling very much at home in the Far North. The foot-deep snow and -30" temperature reminded Iiim of his winters under the Golden 
hDomc. 
Mr. and Mrs. Jerome Ryan, '41, have a novel way of recording the growth of their eleven 
children. Their Christmas cards depict a year to year, so that friends can Ryan household 
I was happy to receive the news from BILL H0HMJ\NN' S mother concerning BilPs activities since graduation. He received an assignment on the U.S.&. Helena soon after graduation and left in July for Japan. On the 29th of May, 1959, Bill was married to Miss Veronica Marie Johnson, in San Diego. The Hohmann's address is now 5441 Sorrento Drive, Long Beach 3, California. 
TIM RICE sent a short note informing us that he was married in .August of 1959 to Miss Roslyn Smith, a graduate of Endicott College for Women in Beverly, Mass. Tlieir address Is 58 Park Place, Geneva, N.Y. 
More family-tj-pc news comes from Lynn and JI.M McNAMARfV who became the proud parents on November 30, 1959 of James Joseph, a new 7 lb., 7 oz. Chicagoan. Matrimonial ne»'s from Lt. Jg. BILL DOTTERWEICH reveals that lie "was mar­ried on May 30, 1959, to Miss Margaret Ann Hen­drick at Queen of Miraculous Medal Church, Jack­son, Mich. Bill is serving on the U.S.S. Marshall, a destroyer, in the Pacific. 
.Alice and BOB WOJCIK arc also among those blessed with an addition to their family. On No­vember 15, David Robert entered the world at the weight of 8 lbs., 6 ozs. GENE SALE.M reported personally (he is finishing up his senior year at 
N. D. Law Scliool) that he and his wife, Shirlc>% became the parents of a daughter last June 8— Shcr>l Ann. 
RICK DI aAMILLO wrote in November tliat he was working with the Division of EmpIo>-ment in New York. He was married on February 7, 1959, to Miss Joyce Carhidi of Schenectady, N.Y. After brief periods at Lackland A.F.B. and Spence A.F.B. Rick was sent to Webb A.F.B,, Texas, for basic pilot training. Rick related tliat he had heard from CHUCK SY.MEON last summer when he had been playing ball for the Vancouver Mountics, in the Pacific Coast League. Rick also reported that tlic last he knew, BILL GRIFFIN, and JOE GO­LONKA were in Svracuse Med. School, FR/\NK DOYLE was in the Army, and BILL NEWELL was working for General Electric 
JOHN DUNN was the source of the news that DICK OARNEY had entered the married state. His bride was the former Trcnna Kaye Tate of Musko­gee, Okla. Dick is with Phillips Petroleum in Re­search and Development, in Barllesville, Okla. 
BILL BRiVDISH and his wife Barbara became parents of a son, Christopher Judc, on May 11, 1959, in Vetville. Upon completion of his master's work in chemical engineering Bill and family left for California in a two-car cara^-an with the family of MARK RERRICK. Mark is presently doing his second year of postdoctoral research at Cal Tech. Bill is with the Shell Chemical Co. 
Other news from Bill Bradlsh: a\R L HEBERT and wife are back in Lafayette, La. Carl, too, has received his master's degree in chemical engineering. ED CUDDIHY and family arc in Altadena. Calif., where Ed is in rcscarcli at the Jet Propulsion Lab. Ed received liis M.S. in August of '59. JIM VOIT 
 baker's dozen of Ryans in a similar pose from  note the annual development of the  in Hamilton, Ohio. 
is married and in his second vear of graduate work at N. p . BOB FUREY is a siiift foreman at Kaiser Steel in Fontana, Clalif., while'studying for a Ime degree at night at the Loyola I-aw School. 
Here is a run-down on the doings of JIM SMITH over the last year or so. Jim, as reported earlier, was married in June of 1958, to Miss Virgitiia Schoen in Cleveland. He acquired an ALB„A. at Michigan Stale in July of '59 and is now with the advertising firm of J. \VaIler Thompson Co. m New York. Jim has been assigned to international market research. .As for their family, Jim and Virginia have one daughter, born July 9, 1959. 
BOB \VATERS, also married, is stadoned at Self­ridge A.F.B. as an intelligence officer. His w'ife is the former Nancj- Smithe, sister of WALT SMITHE. Walt is married to Florence Flynn, and they have a son, bom in July of 1959, named Walter HI. Walt is stationed at Fort Harrison, Ind., instructing fellow officers on the workings of IBM computers. This news was sent by Mr. Wa­ters, but Mr. Smithc also wTote, giving some of the same news but including additional items of note. Walt encountered BILL SIGLER as one of his prospective students at Fort Harrison. Bill is enrolled in the Adjutant Grnerars Officer basic course after being with the Department of the Army in Washington. 
BOB THO.MPSON is a second lieutenant at Fort Benning. He and wife Dottie and son Bob, Jr., arc spending six months there. DICK KOH­LER is out of the Army and is %vith G. E. in Sche­nectady. Dick is being married next summer to Miss Lynn Roberts in Detroit. GERRY GENO­VESE was at Fort Harrison for a term of study under Prof. Smithe and was stationed at Fort Sher* idan. III. PACKY WHEL.\N is undergoing special training in the Air Force. JOHN DE»\'ES and GERRY FISHER arc still roommates—in Korea, according to best reports. DICK PHELAN is at Georgetown Law School. I guess that takes care of all the news from Messrs. Waters and Smithe, two brothcrs-in-Iaw who have my sincere thanks for their reporting cfTorts, 
I also have received word that ED LINN has a position with the Linn Motor Company (sales man­ager) and is considering flying for the Coast Guard. FRfVNK MURPHY is a Lt. j.g. on a destroyer in the Pacific, and is pretty happy with the Naxy. 
Some time ago I received a very newsy letter from .MIKE BENCHOFF. Mike is in the Columbia Law School and spent last summer working in a law office in Salem, III. He wants it known that he would like to sec any classmates who get to New York,—he ca.n be reached at the law school. Mike reported that J.ACK HOUGH, PAT HEF­FERN/\N, and RE.MY FR^YNSEN all enrolled at the Har\-ard Law School; and JOHN CALLAHAN is at the Boston College Law Sdiool. JOHN BURNS is attending Georgetown Law and w*orkin5 part time for Sen. Neuberger of Oregon. Amons those whom Mike has run into during his first year at Columbia were TO.M MARTIN, DON and KE­VIN REILLY, JOHN GLAVIN, BILL BOURNE, TI.M HARIG.AN, ED HOURIG.AN, JIM Mc-
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1960 33 
LAUGHLIN, TOM FARRELL, BOB LANDRY, AL FLORLV. DICK THOMAS, BOB QULNN, DAVE SHANAHAN, DAVE AfcMAHOX, JOHX RUSSO, PETE DEVrrO, KEVIN SMITH, JACK CARPENTER. TOM COOK, CHARLEY SUSANO, CLARK REARDON and probably innumerable other?. £\idcntly the place to encounter classmates is Nc%\' York Cit\-; at least Mike has found this to be the case. 
JOHN SAXER writes from Santa Ana, CaliL, that lie and his wife, Mary Ann, are tlie ver>' proud parents of a son bom last June—John Jacob Saxcr III. John 11 is still u*itli tlie Navy. 
Another proud papa is BILL ROBI. BUI, who is married to the former Helen Thomas, writes tliat their first son was bom in October, and christened "William Michael. Bill is with tlie Crocker Anglo National Bank, Credit Department. He mentioned that he occasionally hears from BILL REISERT, 
U.S.M.C. DICK MERCY, Bill's former roommate is in a Jesuit seminar^-, St. Frances XaWcr, Sheri­dan, Ore. Bill also mentioned tliat MIKE HERB is at Georgetown Law School, and that he (Bill) would like to hear from JOHN RUSSO (so would I), JOE FISCHER, BILL KANTOR, and the JIEILLY TWINS. Tlic Robi's address is: 427 Font Blvd., San Francisco 27, California. 
Thai takes care of all the correspondence for tliis time, but I have a few items picked up in personal encounters in the Wdnity of N. D. (football week ends and what-not). DAVE LINK and wife became parents of a son, David Christopher, on August 8. GERRY PASTUL/V is with the Army at Fifth Army Hq. in Chicago, and is on the faculty at Morgan Park Military Academy-
Random notes via the Alumni Oflice: Father BRL\N EGAN, O.S.B., president of St. Bernard's College, Cullman, Ala., was named one of Ala­bama's four "Outstanding Young Men of 1959" by the State Jaycecs and was also a candidate for the national au'ard as one of the ten ^'Outstanding Young Men in the U. S-" Father Brian, who took his master's with the class, is the first Catholic priest thus honored by a secular organization in the South. ROBERT P. PARNELL joined Sperrv­G>'TOSCopc as an assistant engineer last October. ROBERT E. BYRNES HI recently soloed as a second lieutenant in flight training at Pensacola. Lieut (Jg.) JAMES H. DAILEY is now located at Daliran, Saudi Arabia, and recently Wsitcd the Holv Land. JAMES J. CORRIG.\N is a graduate fel­low in industrial administration at Carnegie Tccli. ROBERT J. DUNHAM, whose brother Bill, '53, was married in November, is a Marine lieutenant in flight training at Pensacola. AHCILAEL HERB, at Georgetown U. Law Center, recently wrote in about contacting DR. TOM DOOLEY, M8, con­cerning possible help for his medical movement in Laos. 
HUGH PLUNKETT is engaged in the retail furniture business in the faintly firm at Madison and Oak Park .Aves. in Chicago. In a careless mo­ment he mentioned a discount to all N. D. grads but he may have become more rcser\'ed since then. I must admit that Hugh and BILL O'BRY.AN were especially helpful news sources when I ran into them at the Oliver on one of last fall's football weekends. BILL CAHILL must have some of that credit too, since he too was in attendance and full of gab. Among tlic items reported by this distin­guished trio vcrc the follo^ring: BOB SPAHN and PAUL BOURJAILY were in the sLvmonth training program at Boston Radar School. Bob is engaged to Nancy Kearse from DePaul. JACK CRILLY, BILL O'BRYAX, TIM SULLU'AN, FR.ANK GIB­BONS, and ED BUCKLEY are all at DePaul Law School. Buckley, by the •way, is engaged to a fel­low law student, Judy McDonald. JACK ARM­STRONG i*-as married October 12 to Pcgg>- Turner of DetroiL PHIL CONWAY and BILL O'BRYAN supplied cars for the wedding party. JAY SEN­NOTT is reportedly completely wrapped up in his studies at the University of Chicago where he is taking a business course. PHIL PRASSAS is en­gaged to Marian Carter; botli arc enrolled at Northwestern—no date has been set. 
Also encountered at a postgame get-together in South Bend, was BOB HUETZ, who is an assistant market research analyst %%*ith the Metropolitan In­surance Company of New York. 
Well, that takes care of another column. Thanks to the many of you who supplied this wealth of Information. It is greatly appreciated. If a con­tinued bountiful supply of news is avail:&Ie to your secretary, a device may be worked out by which we can avoid the unfortunate dela>*s in transmitting this information. I would Hke to beg your patience with regard to the often-retarded publication sclied­ule of the ALUMNUS. These difficulties are due 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Marchj 1960 

to jome rather mcnuniental teclinical problems the solutions to which do not seem to be in the im­mediate offing. If the inflow of news continues to be substantial your secretary- might be able to pub­lish periodic supplemental newsletters, separate from the magazine. So, keep those cards and letters coming. And, if you come across some newspaper articles concerning classmates, clip them out and send tliem on to me •— wc may be able to reproduce them to liven up our news presentation. 
Tliat's it—so long for now—and WRITE, RIGHT NOW! 
19S 9 tennis M Nead 
•'^ ' 6121 RobisonRd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

The class of '59 Is now ten months old as alumni and no doubt our bachelor percentage is decreasing fast. I have heard from some members of the class but I would enjoy hearing from more of ycu. \\''hat would be desirable In this column is to write about a cross-section of the class each time thus glxing cvcr^'one a general Idea as to what tlicir friends arc up to. So again I would ask you to drop a short line to me when you have time because your class wants to know what you are doing. Tlie fol­lo\vIng ne\«*s is pieces of information that was picked up through the football games this past fall: 
Notre Dame can be proud of JAMES C. LANE, who recently graduated number one out :tf a class of 42 in his Artillery* Basic Oflicer course at Fort Bliss, Texas. Jack's a\*erage was 98.57 for a period of twelve weeks and this was one of the highest averages maintained in the hlstorv' of the scliool. 
I recently received a letter from JACK DOLfVN who is no^v employed by Yale University. He is doing sports publicity work for them and is tlie assistant director of sports information. GENE DUFFY was down in Florida for winter baseball but because of an accident will wait until spring to return to the baseball wars. He Is now Iiomc in Davenport, Iowa, where he is working with the Insured Saving Dept. of Franklin Life Insurance Co. 
STEVX DORNBACH and DICK DONOVAN are both in grad scliooI at N. D. JOHN FOGERTY is an account adjuster with the First National Bank in Elkhart, Ind. LOU KIGIN Is now with Haskins & Sells accounting firm in New York City. BILL CASEY is teacliing biology at Notre Dame High scIiool in Nilcs, III. RON DURANT is now a grad student at Rutgers University. 
MIKE KIEWAL and his wife Louise Grcsc>-k Kiewal of South Bend are now living in San Diego, CxUIf., where Mike is working for Con\*air Astro­nautics. Sgt. First Class Owen SIcin (of Army ROTC fame) has informed me that JAMES ^VN­THON'Y JUST of all people has dedded to go Regular Army. I think Jim went to one drill in four years. 
WILLIAM ABRAM5, recently married this past summer to Miss Sharon Bailey, is residing in Ap­pleton. Wis., where he Is attending the Institute of Paper Chemistry. JOHN BELLAS married Miss Jacqueline TImcliick this past August and is em­ployed ^vith the Republic Steel Corporation In Cleveland, Ohio. CHARLES FREDRICK and DON COSTA are teacliing and coaching at Weber Catli­ollc High School in Chicago, III. 
STEX'E BOLANDER is an engineer with the Eric Bolander Construction Co. in Libert>-\ille, III., and is also studying business at the U. of Illinois. CHiVRLES MAXWELL BROWN is studying medi­cine at St. Louis University and later plans to take a j(A in Fort Wayne, Ind., as a tennis professional. JOHN PAUL CANNON is playing Ronnie Joer (bartender) some place In Florida but plans to take up Hotel Management at Cornell University. 
ROBERT DEMPSEY, our *59 Debate Team presi­dent and \rinner of a ^Voodrow Wilson Fellowship, is studying at the U. of Chicago. MARTY DEIG­NON is teaching and coaching at ^^onroe Public High School in Monroe, Wis.; he plans to wed Miss Mary Solheim in June. PETE FURNARI was married to Miss Ann Marie Fceney this past August and is studying Dentistry at New York U. 
FRANK GEREMIA is employed with F. Gcremia and Sons Construction in Sacramento, Calif. RON HAMMOND, recently married to Miss Carole Ker­ske, is studying medicine at Loyola Med. Scliool. DICK KENVILLE Is employed as an engineer witli RCA and Is also working for his master's in elec­trical engineering at tlie U. of Pennsylvania. 
JOHN LUKES married Miss Sharon AValker on September 19 and is stationed at Fort Benjamin Harrison in the Adj. Gen. Corps. DAVE MIL­LER is in the Air Force (where stationed I do not know). He wants to study engineering science at" Purdue tLwhcn he gets finished with the service. JOHN PETER MORAN Is presently stationed at Halobcrg, Md., with Army Intelligence and will at­tend law school at Virginia or Georgetown when he gets out. 
HARRY AfcKEE was married to Miss Sue ^Vede­raeyer on September 5 and has returned t^ Notre Dame to complete his 5th year of the ctmbination en^necring course. TOMMY MARQUEZ Is attend­ing Southern Methodist, where he is working for his master's in business administration. I would! imagine that Tom is having a tougli time keeping Ills mind where it belongs because this Is quite a switch from South Bend. 
NORMAN ^XNTHONY ODYNIEC has given up many offer; for a football career and is studying medicine at Georgetown U. PAUL QUINN mar­ried Miss Marie O'Dea in September 12 and is now employed with the Firestone Co., Hartford, Conn. CHUCK QUEENAN is doing accounting work with Haskins and Sells In Cleveland, O. Chuck misses those Sunday drives into Bcrra College, but I know that he is still making contact there. ^ 
JAMES RHADIGAN, married to Mbs Mar>- ^\'inn" Putts this summer, is after his master's at Michi­gan State. Scents to mc we have been losing a little too much to the Spartans lately but I don't think it will be long before the tide turns. DAVID SHANNON SMITH is stationed at Columbus, O., in .the Air Force. Since Cincinnati Is his former home, Sam frequently drops into Cincy to resume acquaintance with some of his friends, but more important, to taste tliat golden Hudepohl beer. 
LOUIS VON HAGEN is presently employed with Price Watcrhouse and Company In Cleveland, C , but soon will start lits basic officer course at Fort Sill, Okla. WILLIA.M AL SACKINGER is emg ployed with Westinghouse at Elmira, N. Y., ant^ plans to further study electrical engineering at Cor­nell University. 
BOB SEDL/\CK is studying English at Har\-ard on his Woodrow Wilson scliolarshlp. JOHN SUL­LIVAN and TOM JOSEPH arc attending law school with MARK SHIELDS at Boston College. .\ftcr hours find these three at the Oxford Grille in Cambridge, .Mass. CHARLEY BOWEN was last seen at a party in Weymouth, Mass., at the home of our vice president where he entertained the crowd with his famous Wednesday night Frankie's Kingston Trio music. 
BILL HICKM/\N is going to law scliool at Chll) cago U. among his many other activities, like skiing on the week ends. T. Y. HAYES was last seen on the Notre Dame bench at the Cal game this year with a bottle of rum to keep him warm. At the dance after the game the big fellow played Charlie Neal and slid into second in the hotel lobby while also managing to hang from the balcony. 
LOU STETLER is on a fellowship at Purdue U. at present but plans to join Bob Sedlack at Hanard next fall. TIM .\UHONEY, Jersey's shore hero this past summer. Is now climbing telephone poles at Fort Dix, where he is going through his six months' service. PAUL GRUBER was not with us-during our senior year but is to be graduated iiij June and will be kept on the Class of 1959 roster. 
KEVIN HALLIG/VN, former Afct Club president, is now living in a pup tent in the fields of Korea but plans to be back in the States within nine months. GENE SAXON has completed OC5 school now, and BUCKY O'CONNOR is teaching school somewhere close to his home town. TERRY BER­NARD sent a vcr)' nice letter, and all seems to be well in Ccllna, O., where wedding bells should soon ring. MARK WALSH was recently married in California to Joyce La Ree. 
From the Alumni Office: ^ JOE FITZGIBBONS wrote in to let us know he has been working for Plastold Corp., Hamburg, 
N. J., since graduation. It's a couple of miles from Joe's new address, 19 Fowler St., Franklin, N. J-He is assistant to Plastold's controller, doing ac­counting and cost estimating, ANDREW R. SIS­SON is a brokerage consultant for the Chicago branch of Connecticut General Life, adrising gen­eral agents and clients on policy provisions. Marine BOB DUNHAM, now a second lieutenant In flight,^ training at Pensacola, recently made his first sol ^ flight. 
NICK PIETROSANTE easily captured the Na­tional Football Lci^ue Rookie-of-the-Year honors for his performance with the Detroit Lions. And from Hamilton. Ont., BRONKO NAGURSKI, JR., rookie tackle with the Hamilton Tigcr-Cats, re­ported that he'll take his six months' army training now and report back in the fall. .^ 
THE CLASS REUNIONS June 10, II, 12, i96o 
ALUMNI SURVEY, ALUMNI BOARD, CLASS SECRETARIES ENTER INTO SHAPING UP OUTSTANDING PROGRAMS FOR FRIDAY, SATURDAY, SUNDAY OF SECOND WEBC IN JUNE 
ATTENDANCE. It is generally j agreed that the primaiy reason for the 
•success of a Reunion is good attend­ance. You come back to see your Class-Wiates. Efforts already well under way 
assure a good year under this heading. 
HALLS. Maintenance problems 

•
have to be considered in assigning Halls I for the Reunions, but this year the Uni­; versity has allocated Alumni, Dillon, ] Howard, Morrissey and Lyons Halls, 'for what should be an adequate and {pleasant week end. Tentative Class 

•
 assignments are the 50-Year Class, i 1915, 1920 and 1925 in Howard; 1930 1 in Lyons; 1935 in Dillon, and 1945 in ! the same Hall; 1940 in Morrissey, with I 1950 in tlie same Hall; and 1955 in ' Alumni Hall. (Alumni Hall will also ; be used for the Monogram alumni who i come back on Thursday, June 9, for Qjie annual meeting.) 


FEES. The Alumni Association in­itends in 1960 to hold to the $20 basic 'fee for the week end, which includes ; registration, rooms, insignia, help. Class ? dinner up to $4 per capita, Alumni 
Banquet, bo.x lunch on Saturday, and refreshments. Classes which desire a -rnore elaborate Class dinner, a variety " f refreshments, or augmented insignia, sometimes charge an additional fee, but the Board recommends that it be as low as possible, and that no solicitation for funds be made a part of the Reunion Week End. This is to insure the pur­pose of the below-cost general fee, which is to bring as many alumni back ior their Reunions as possible, with minimum sacrifice, and to prevent any embarrassment because of cost. The Secretaries agree with this. It does not preclude special Class effort in a Re­union year to increase its gift to the University, or other special project— but simply keeps it from being an un­
expected and unwelcome assessment on the Reunion ^Veek End itself. 
er Classes want a more formal Reunion 
program, with more substance. The 
Alumni Board has been conscious for 
some years of a growing need to make 
tlie Reunion AVeek End something oth­
er than complete relaxation. 
It has felt that with the Class Din­
ner, the Class Mass, the Golf Tourna­
ment, the Alumni Banquet, the Alumni 
Mass on Sunday, and annual opportun­
ities for the alumni of each College to 
meet with the faculty and administra­
tion of those Colleges, it has packed 
the limited period from Friday after­
noon to Sunday noon with a fair cross 
section of constnictive programs. 
The Alumni Office has advised cau­
tion in reshaping tlie Reunions into 
either Retreats or Seminars, both of 
which have merit but separate identi­
ties. 
The result is an agreement by the 
Office, the Board, and the Class Sec­
retaries, to try to work with each Class 
to derive the maximum benefits from 
its Reunion, with the basic programs 
being augmented by speakers, etc., as 
the Class officers and committees see 
fit. 
DRINKING. This is a relatively simple area of agreement, though not necessarily a simple problem. One of tlie first and more enjoyable features of a Notre Dame Reunion is the shak­ing off of the years in the company of tliose who shared our campus experi­ences with us. And the mellowing in­fluence and the acceleration as well as exhilaration of suitable beverages is not seriously questioned. But all the study­ing groups—the Office, the Board, and the Class Secretaries—recommend that moderation be encouraged, in the in­dividual, in the supply, in the hours available, and in the increase of pro­gramming to lessen the mellower hours. This, in reason, and without defeating our purpose and destroying our tradi­tions, we hope to continue to work to­
tions, but with upward of a thousand alumni involved for housing and food planning, you see how essential it is to indicate your attendance when you are asked. Thanks. 
FAMILIES. The nature of the No­tre Dame Reunion \Veek End and the tradition of the campus, together \vith the fact that families, especially wves, do not always share enough back­ground to enjoy such a week end, have eliminated either facilities or program for \vives and families in the past. 
Today, with vacation trips, conven­
ient highways, more family activity in 
Notre Dame Clubs, etc., there is more 
interest in family participation in the 
Reunion Week End. 
Careful study, however, reveals in 
the Board, in the Class Secretaries, and 
in the Alumni Office a conviction that 
we are still removed substantially from 
the demand or the facilities to include 
this new and very different program. 
As a result, in 1960, several Class inquiries have been modified to sug­gest that a number of new and attrac­tive motels near the campus provide an inviting spot for the families who may be accompanying a Reunion mem­ber on hb trip. But, the recommenda­tion is that no program for families be attempted, and that the families be made aware that the Reunion AVeek End should have the full and free at­tention of the alumnus, if he is to en­joy it thoroughly. 
These are the highlights of discus­sions since the 1959 Reunions. In 1960, the slogan is still the simple "Plan to Be Here With Your Class." We feel sure that many good things wU follow. We will appreciate your study of the week-end program, and your coopera­tion in advancing those developments which can enrich our individual and total Reunion experience. 
ward in 1960. It needs cooperation. PROGRAMS. Read this carefully. James E. Armstrong, '25 Early and informal reports from the RESERVATIONS. We are reluc (I'm planning on being Alumni Survey indicate that the young­tant to demand advance firm reserva­here for mine.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, I960 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Januaiy 31, 1960 Fellow Alumni: 
At the ver}' outset I should like to express my deep gratitude to each of you for electing me the President of the Alumni Association for the year of 1960. 1 follow in the wake of many capable and deseiving Presidents, most recently Bill Cotter, who just completed a most outstanding year at the helm. Much credit must also be given to Honorary President Mike Layden and the other Board officers Jules de la Vergne, Ray Durst, and Leo Vogel and our inexliaustible Alumni Secretar)' Jim Aiinstrong, whose efforts and guidance and sincere dedication to Notre Dame are priceless. 
We welcome the new members of die Board, Harrj' Mehre, Geoi^e Connor, Bill Mahoney and Maurice CaiToU whom you elected in a nation-wide vote. You may be sure that they will make a valuable contribu­tion to the Alumni program during the next three years, as will John Dempsey who fills out the time of the late Charles Rolir. 
It is my fer\-ent desire that during this year your Alumni Board, acting in your behalf, can accomplish something of large or small significance in the ser\'ice of Notre Dame. Reflecting for a moment on the existence and purpose of the Alumni Association, it carries on year after year with ever increasing strength because all of its membei-s are dedicated to the laudable purpose of making Notre Dame a stronger and gi-eater univereity. It is with this objective in mind that your Alumni Board functions during the year. It is quite true that the Board meetings afford us an intimate association with our fellow Board members and with the administration and the faculty which is a most pleasant reward. But I should like to impress you with the fact that the entire Board is quite serious in its determination to do all that is possible not only for the betterment of Notre Dame but also to seixe the members of the Alumni AssociaUon. The Board welcomes your suggestions and your criticism. 
The Board mcmbei-s were privileged to obser\-e and participate in the Class Secretaries' Conference held at the University on Januar)' loth and 16tli. AVe were most impressed with the zeal and loyalty of these class sec­retaries who spent two days in long sessions trading ideas and programs for the purpose of stimulating a greater interest in Notre Dame among the alumni in each of their classes. The splendid work being done by such successful class secretaries as Louis Bniggner '23, Louis Buckley '28, Frank Hochreiter '35, Al Lesmez '45, and many others desen'es the admiration and respect of all of us. It became ver)' apparent during the Class Secretaries' meetings that the function of the class secretaries in the over-all Alumni program is of the highest importance. Judging from the reports of the class secretaries it would be my judgment diat the active Alumni interest and the participation in the Foundation of the alumni in each class each year is in direct pro­portion to the efforts of the class secretaiy in keeping interest alive among his class members. 
1960 is a year of challenge to all Notre Dame Alumni. It concerns a great and urgent need of the University. ^Ve all want Notre Dame to continue to progress, to year by year achieve a gieater scholastic excellence and reputation. Notre Dame however must keep abreast of the educational needs of a universit)'. I refer of course to the projected new Libraiy. Our present libraiy was quite suitable 40 years ago when our enrollment was smaller and our faculty members were few. Today it is completely inadequate. The mark of the gieat educa­tional institutions of the world is the libraiy. Certainly we must all admit that this librar)', for which construc­tion will soon begin, has a univei-sal appeal. Father Hesburgh recently announced that the Library will cost in e.xcess of §6,000,000; that he hopes to receive half of this amount from special benefactors. He is depending on die Notre Dame Alumni for the other $3,000,000 in the next three years. The Alumni contributions over a 10-year period have been totalling approximately $500,000 annually. This means that Fadier Hesburgh is plac­ing his faidi in the Alumni to double their total gifts for tlie next three years. 
Many alumni in tiie past have indicated that their contributions to the Foundation would be increased each year if there were a definite goal or objective for such annual gifts. Suffice it to say that the goal is now before us — a gieat Librar)' — in keeping with the great univei-sit)' that is Notre Dame. 
This is an excellent opportunity to prove our ]o)'alt)' to Notre Dame, 
Sincerely, 
JOHN C. O'CONNOR, '38, President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS -J 








