The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
QOt to on .\^ 
a^ i'hxs ooofi. IS '^-t^ 
s


tak«s froja tha Librfer* 
c 
€lEben 


tKrabel J^umber 
^0 . g-ix 1933 

GOING TO EUROPE? 
. •. then follow the trend to AMERICAN SHIPS! 
Y
ES, there's a trend to ^^merican ships. Thousands have discovered in the last year that the LEVIATHAN, the MANHATTA N and other United States Liners give them every privilege and every amenity any ship can provide—PLUS cuisine and service that appeals to Ameri­cans, and a language they understand. American ships are the sea-going expression of the American standard of living—the highest in the world. 
Whether your destination is Ireland, England, France or Germany there's a United States Liner to take you there at the price to fit your budget. 
The ships that fly your own flag seek no favor—ask only that you investigate what they offer. Americans are quick to recognize value. 
For full information and reservation apply to your 
local agent or to your own graduate travel service. 
Maiden Voyage 

S.S. WASHINGTON 
Luxuriom Sister-Ship of the new S. S. MANHATTAN 
The new pride of the American Mer­chant Marine and sharing with the MANHATTAN the honor of the utle, 


MAY 10 
"festest Cabin ship in the world." 

LEVIATHAN t^Z 
To England, France and Gennany. 
• ' • • new MANHATTAN World's Fastest new WASHINGTON Cabin Liners 
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT PRESIDENT HARDING 
Speedy, comfortable, moderately priced 
To Ireland, England, France and Germany. 
AMERICAN BANKER AMERICAN FARMER AMERICAN TRADER AMERICAN MERCHANT 
Ont-CLtss American Merchant Uners. No Class Distmcttan. 
Direct to London. 





UNITED STATES LINES 
AMERICAN MERCHANT LINES 
Roosevelt Steamship Co., Inc.,—General Agents • No. i Broadway, New York Offices or Agents Everywhere 

CCMMENT 
7fev6^ 

The designation "Travel Number" on the cover appears on the ALUM­NUS for the first time. It is done in conjunction with travel agencies working through the alumni maga­zines of America to develop a cultural travel practice among American col­lege graduates. To further this ac­tivity, cards prepared by the Gradu­ate Travel Service will be sent to all alumni. Notre Dame men are asked to co-operate in this for two reasons —first, the inherent merits of travel as a recreational and an educational factor, and second, a more selfish and immediate motive, the furthering of travel advertising in the ALUMNUS. 
Holy Year brings to the Catholic world unusual incentive to visit Italy, which is a tourist's haven under nor­mal circumstances. Naturally, the Italian agencies have made rates which coincide excellently with the Catholic interest in a visit to the Holy City. 
France, where in Le Mans, the Con­gregation of Holy Cross began its life, which has since swung so pre­ponderantly to Notre Dame, offers a natural goal for the Notre Dame tourist. Prance, too, is ground where­on so many Notre Dame boys of the War Classes fought. 
Ireland, so closely associated with Notre Dame in tradition and faith, extends a fraternal handclasp to the boys who have carried the banners of the Fighting Irish so brilliantly across the American scene. 
India offers an around the world interest in the Holy Cross Missions of Bengal. 
You see, it is not unnatural to e.x­pect that Notre Dame men should find the same interests in travel that other people do with added incentives 
THE NOTRE DAMEALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The maf:azine is published monthly durintr the scholastic year fay the 'Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUBlNirS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
TH E ALUMN  I  ASSOCIATIO N  
of  the  
UNIVERSIT Y  O F NOTR E  DAM E  

Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President CLARENCE MANION, '22 President TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 First Vice-President JAMES E . SANFORD, '15 Second Vice-President 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 Director GEORGE BIGGINS, '32 Director FRANK H . HAYES, '14 (ex officio) Director 
like those above. And if you will of pressure, such manifestations route your interest through the chan-' would be most helpful and reassuring. nels of the Graduate Travel Service, 
There are so many announcements you will find aid at no cost, congenial of interest and concern during the fellowship, all of the same facilities next several months that it is ex­as through other agencies, and at the tremely inadvisable to suspend the same time promote the interests of medium through which these an­your alumni magazine and Associa­nouncements can reach everyone. 
tion. 
And, through the courtesy of the Uni­American travel is also included in versity and The Ave Maria, we shall the Graduate Service, among the fa­probably not be forced to this con­cilities for which is listed Southern tingency. Pacific, whose President is Angus Mc­
But please do not confuse it with Donald, '00. 
prosperity. The illustration on the cover is the 
And please try to make the already portrait of Columbus by the great heavy burdens of the local institu­Notre Dame artist, Luigi Gregori, one tions as light as possible. 
of the famous Columbian frescoes on the walls of the corridor of the Main Building. ' 
Several things of vital importance 
must be handled separately throngh This issue of the ALUMNUS rep­
the mails during the next month. 
resents another vote of faith in Watch for this .Association matter. 
things, not as they are, but as they Don't let your home or office lose it 
will be. If you, by any chance, can for you. And please answer promptly, 
do anything to add a few works to this faith, while it is past the period when approached. Thanks. 
^SJ»^^S^-^H?•iS?g«*»»^-~^iai^-»:>i-»^'•aT^•nI^Tarf^^..^^ -~-­
?;agiyjgr^ags;a>a^>a'y-sga^i,T.y.Jbg>?g<;«g.'i 
i^s^m 
*i-H>.«y. 
'^f 
'iv:^ 
\ 



mmmm 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XI. MARCH, 1933 No. 6 
Fifteen Clubs On A Secretary's Chest, Or, My Trip 
Being the de-Halliburtonized Account of Armstrong's Visit to Sundry Local Clubs, High Schools, 
Conventions, 

.MOTIVE (S) OF TRIP —District Five of the American -A.lumni Coun­cil, that efficient organization of alum­ni executives from which spring the constant stream of new ideas in our -Association, scheduled its meeting in Cincinnati at the U. of C. for Feb. 3 and 4. The following week-end, the Executive Committee of the same or­ganization held its mid-year meeting in Buffalo. In these two meetings the Notre Dame Secretary saw op­portunities for co-ordinating meetings with at least two eminently active Local Clubs. What he couldn't see was the financial consideration so es­sential in travel. 
Contact with the high schools from which we have attracted students to Notre Dame has been one of the re­cent activities sponsored by the Direc­tor of Studies, Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C., '03. By generous action on the part of the University, arrange­ments were made whereby the local -A.lumni Secretary could make both the above meetings and, instead of returning to Notre Dame in between, stop at the several Local Clubs be­tween Cincinnati and Buffalo, at the same time making the desirable con­tacts with the various high schools whose students have long graced the University's roster. When the orig­inal itinerary was planned it seemed to cover considerable territory with saving in both time and expense. The natural suggestion seemed to be to enlarge the trip to the maximum. This was done. 
JIODIFYING FACTORS—In read­ing the following paragraphs, please bear these things in mind (1.) "Hip trip was taken at rather high speed-This necessitated almost without ^.>4:. ception missing opportunities to §eji people and go places that a more e.'C­tended stop in the specific spot would have permitted. (2.) The school con­tacts were being made with little precedent as far as Notre Dame is concerned. Where any circumstances made it seem advisable to omit a con­
and What Had He, With Malice Toward None 
tact, this was the course followed. (3.) The "ambassador" was limited in time, experience, in speaking ability, and other things which lend them­selves to the intensity of an impres­sion. (4.) The trip was made with emphatic awareness of the economic conditions which so seriously affect a school in the position of Notre Dame. 
• GENERAL CONCLUSIONS — The Local -A.lumni Clubs visited were uni­formly cordial and active and pos­sessed of a vitality surprising in these troublous times. Promise of co-opera­tion in the University's program of­fers a complete justification of the -Association's activities through the Clubs. The high schools visited showed a hospitality and an under­standing of Notre Dame which was most enlightening and encouraging. -Athletics, largely through the wide­spread contacts of the late Knute Rockne, '14, and Religion, through the rapidly spreading influence of Rev. John F. O'Hara. C.S.C, '13, were found to be familiar to students and superiors generally. The program of contacts from University and alura­rti therefore finds its most effective field the .Academic. -Alumni interest in Notre Dame is that strong, gen­eral, constructively critical, reasoning and reasonable friendship and loyalty that has come to be known and envied outside our own ranks as Notre Dame spirit. Unendowed and undimmed in the depression, it seemed to do much more than cancel—lack of endowment is a temporary thing that loses most of its misfortune in the face of the unquenched enthusiasm which will un­doubtedly overcome it in minimum time. -A corresponding depression in spirit would have been much more disturbling and disastrous. 
THE ITINERARY —Following are the specific stops and as much of the voluminous activities they embraced as it is convenient, and expedient, to report — and, as much as memory 
brings back from that ultimately dizzying campaign of fifteen com­munities, as many Club meetings, tvventy-one high school assemblies, and the many individual conversations that were no small part in the value and enjojTnent of the trip. 
Cincinnati — -Arriving in Cincinnati a day early proved to be an auspi­cious beginning. Thereby I was able to lunch with Harrj- Crumley, as host, 
W. D. "Hogan" Jlorrissey, President Bob Hughes and Leo Du Bois, at the Press Club. Discovering that my high school angle was not met smilingly and open-armed in view of the opin­ion that a Notre Dame appeal might conflict with more local Catholic col­lege interests, little remained except the pleasant task of contacting and illuminating the alumni. From lunch to the Catholic Charities where Ho­gan iMorrissey spends a busy winter, until the Fort Scott camp for boys calls him to the very efficient applica­
tion of his Boy Guidance course in the summer. Mrs. Morrissey having been imposed upon for dinner, proved to have the genius that seems character­istic of the ladies of the alumni. The Morrissey larder having taken inten­sive punishment, Hogan; Leo Du Bois and I went to the Good Samaritan Hospital where the old Commodore, Ed McHugh, is recuperating from a long and serious illness. Ed has reached that happy stage where the hospital permits him to leave along lines similar to those followed by the boys in Carroll Hall, and the group adjourned to less hospitalized quar­ters for a most pleasant two hours until taps sounded for Ed. 
The following day Joe Morrissey, coach of the three-times Cincinnati champions in football at Roger Bacon High School, introduced me to the superiors and boys of that active in­stitution and the first of the series of talks on Catholic higher education found a most courteous and interest­ing audience. 
In the afternoon the meetings of the -American -Alumni Council began at the University of Cincinnati. Some twenty-five colleges of the Mid-West were represented and much enlighten­ment was forthcoming on the effects of the depression on higher education and alumni work generally. 
In the evening the Notre Dame Cluh of Cincinnati held a most en­couraging meeting at the Fenwick Club, presided over by President Hughes. A brief outline of the pur­poses of the trip was followed by nu­merous questions concerning Notre Dame, places, persons and traditions, that took the evening through the hours at a rapid pace. Here, as everywhere, the depression had taken its toll among both older and younger alumni, but both groups were well lepre.sented and the spirit was far from being down. 
Saturday wound up the American Alumni ouncil meeting. 
Dayton, Feb. 5 — Schools at Dayton having wTitten that their semesters were changing, Sunday seemed the best time to stop off but in view of the day no meeting was expected. It was therefore a very pleasant sur­prise to find on arriving there Sun­day that President Bob Ohmer and Secretary Andrew Aman Jr. had ar­ranged for a meeting at the Knights of Columbus clubhouse in the after­noon. 
Andy took me out for the Aman family Sunday dinner with his mother and father and three charming aunts. Evidently the customs of the Notre Dame dining halls had found their way into the family circle, because in quantity the Notre Dame appetite was fully recognized. In quality, all the hope of reducing on the trip that that had been entertained by me—and my inner circle—^was cheerfully for­gotten until I had wound up ^vith a rhubarb pie that was a classic and a jiece of sponge cake that advertisers hire artists to paint, but few people can cook. 
It was hard to remember entrance requirements and faculty appoint­ments after that but I was so pleased and encouraged by the fine response of the alumni in sacrificing their Sun­day afternoon to come down for the meeting that it was not quite so hard to come back to earth. We had a general discussion of current and past Notre Dame events in the pleasant parlor of the K. of C. home. 
Monday morning I arrived in 

Columbus, Feb. 6 — Ray J. Eichen­laub, president of the Notre Dame Club of Central Ohio, spent an effi­cient day in making it possible for me to cover the most territory in the ^ short space of time available. A visit to Holy Rosary High School was ar­ranged and the boys and the superiors there were both friendly and inter­ested. Joined there by President Eichenlaub we proceeded to the high school of the St. Charles Borromeo Seminary, where we were extended a most hospitable welcome by Kt. Rev. Msgr. Joseph Weigand. While the Seminary is primarily that, a few of the boys are not preparing for the priesthood and two of the St. Charles alumni are at Notre Dame this year. We met several members of the fac­ulty including Dr. Paul Glenn who taught at the Notre Dame summer school in 1926. 
We stopped at St. Mary's high school but it was too late in the after­noon and we missed seeing either boys or faculty. 
Returning to the hotel afterward we stopped for a couple of hours during which time Don Hamilton, former president of the Association joined us, and Ed Mowery came by from his duties with the Catholic Columbian. Dr. J. M. Dunn was also a visitor during this interesting conversation concerning Notre Dame activities both here and in Columbus. The ac-. tivities of the alumni in the Ohio cap­ital in stimulating interest in Notre Dame are too well known and of too long standing to say anj'thing but that the promise to continue them was readily forthcoming. 
With Don Hamilton as host, we en­joyed an excellent dinner in the hotel dining room and an evening of enter­tainment that contributed some of the relaxation that was so welcome before the month was over. 
From Columbus the trip curved up to 
Youngstown, Feb. 7 — There Pres­ident John Kane, a classmate, de­serted the Youngstown courts to pro­vide a most pleasant afternoon. Not having arrived until afternoon and having been forewarned of semester changes in the schools, the stopover was limited to meeting alumni. Al­most— Mrs. Kane, and another of those rare, delicious and appreciated home dinners mustn't be omitted. The Kane home also provided the scene of the meeting, attended by thirteen loyal and rain-proof members of the active Y^oungsto^vn group. It is hard to repeat the stories of these meetings on paper without giving the impression of routine and monotony. Be assured that while the major chan­nel was travelled pretty generally, there was on my part no feeling of monotony. My regret was that all of the meetings were short and my time for making up for the difficulties in­volved was too limited. 
Instead of catching a late train for Akron as I had planned, Norm Smith persuaded us to come after the meet­ing and help in the observance of his fifth wedding anniversary. (I haven't been mentioning the great kids along the line that mark the coming gen­erations of N. D. men or their fem­inine counterparts. But just as Mrs. Alumnus is uniformly charming and a good cook, so are all the sub-alumni reflections of the inherent merits of their parents. Red's boy and Norm's girl made me step into these paren­theses. I didn't see one that wouldn't have been glad to sign up for N. D. or St. Mary's.) Well, any­how, the stop at Smith's sent me, in the dawn's early light, to 
Akron, Feb. 8 — Frank Steel, an­other classmate, sacrificed a day for the advancement of N. D. and '25, and I was thereby able to make some fine contacts in Akron. Father Scul­len, head of St. Vincent's, from which so many fine boys have come to N. D., deemed a visit at this time inad­visable so I missed the pleasure of contacting that earlier alma mater of many of our Akron alumni. Father O'Keefe at St. Mary's was most in­terested and cordial but expressed the belief that the depression made it most unlikely that any of his boys would be candidates for N. D. I had the pleasure in an informal visit of meeting Father Zwisler who is doing such fine work with St. Sebastian's grade school. The school is excel­lently built, the work of a Notre Dame architect, William Helmkamp, '11, and the management is a tribute to Fr. Zwisler and the Sisters asso­ciated with him in the school. 
After having been piloted about during the day by Prank, including a pleasant visit with A. F. O'Neil, a brother of Tom O'Neil, '14, we met president Glen Smith and a fine group of members of the Club for a delicious Italian dinner that made the subse­quent discussion a thing of real con­tentment. 
After this evening of forum, food and fellowship, I moved on to 
Cleveland, Feb. 9 — Having heard from Fred Joyce that I could chisel a room at his beautiful Lake Shore, I hurried there and proceeded to dis­pel the gathering clouds of travel and chart my course for a day in one of Notre Dame's most active centers. Cathedral Latin, heavy contributor to Notre Dame's student body, was not in a position for an audience on the day in question but extended a hearty invitation to return. President Tom Bj-me came out and picked me up and we went across Cleveland to the Holy Name High School, presided over by 
(Continued on PaKO 170) 

March, 1033 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Twin Cities 


Class of 1933 Presents 
Dear Jim: Your list of Notre Dame Alumni 

Flag In Annual Exercise 
and former students came tliis morn­
By THOMAS PROCTOR 
Blue skies and a warm sun greeted 400 members of the graduating senior class of 1933 Wednesday morning Feb. 22 as they walked from the Main Building to Washington Hall to pay tribute and honor to George Washington. An impressive cere­mony, in perfect keeping with Notre Dame tradition, marked the 88th An­nual Observance of Washington's Birthday. 
The seniors, clad in cap and gown, entered the hall at 10 a. m. Shortly afterwards, the curtains were opened to disclose an American flag; the or­chestra, directed by Professor Casa­santa, played "The Star Spangled Banner." Following this song, a por,trait of Washington above the stage was illuminated by floodlight to begin the speaking program. 
James Joseph Boyle, A.B., '33, de­livered "An Appreciation of Wash­ington's Farewell Address." 

"The Washington Day Ode" was given by Cornelius Joseph Laskowski, C.S.C, A,B., '33, who chose as a title, "Seed and Wind." 
Francis Anthony Werner, A.B., '33, President of the Senior Class, pres­ented the flag of his class to the University of Notre Dame with elo­quent tribute. The president reviewed like ceremonies from the first presen­tation to Father Sorin in 1845, and phrased Notre Dame men as "loyal to God, Country and School." 
In the absence of the Eeverend Charles L. O'Donnell, the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, Director of Studies, accepted the flag in the name of Notre Dame. Father Carrico was given this honor in recognition of his 25 years of attendance at the Wash­ington Day Observances. 
Senior Class President Francis A. Werner (left) makes the annual presentation of the flag on Washington's birthday. Reverend 
J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., accepted the flag for the University. 
Ben Resting, '25, County Surveyor 
Dear Jim: 
I thought I would have written to you sooner than this but for the past several months I have been busy night and day. As soon as the elec­tion was over and everybody found out who the county surveyor-elect was, I suddenly discovered that I had more "friends" than I ever realized and the tough part of it is they are out of work. I think that if every­body really voted the way they say 
they did, half of the votes were not counted. So far, I think I am the champion listener of hard luck stories. 
While you are changing addresses, don't forget to mention to the boys that they can find me at the Court House, whenever they get to Toledo. 
I have one Notre Dame alumnus on my staff, M. I. Henahan, '14, is in charge of road maintainance. 
I'll be seeing you in June. 
Ben Resting, '25. 

ing. We appreciate the effort spent in getting up the names but I feel certain it will help us to build a stronger Notre Dame dub in this sec­tion. 
We were unable to get together for a luncheon for Pat Manion. Every effort was made to have some little doing in his honor but the only time available to hold such was on a Sat­urday noon and the fellows from Min­neapolis either had to work or couldn't make it. It looked as though there would not be much of a turnout and in the face of that we decided not to commit ourselves. 
The club had a very successful 
Christmas Formal. We had two of 
the best local orchestras blowing out 
melodies until 2:30 a. m. in the new 
supper club of the Leamington hotel. 
We had about 200 couples and made 
enough to keep the club on its feet for 
another year. 
Jack Doyla 

Presented Sword of General Meagher to University. 
Newspaper accounts of the recent death of Senator Thomas J. Walsh of Montana recall a time he visited Notre Dame. His visit was on March 4, 1914. 
Senator Walsh had come to Notre Dame to present the sword of General Thomas F. Meagher to the Univer­sity. The presentation was made in Washington Hall and the sword was accepted by the Reverend John Cav­anaugh, C.S.C, then the president of. the University. Senator Walsh with his characteristic oratory gave a short liistory of General Meagher who fought for Ireland and for the Union in the Civil War. 
The Honorable Roger C. Sullivan introduced Senator Walsh and in the course of the introduction said this about him: "Because of these mem­ories of Notre Dame and the Irish Brigade, fittingly does tom"ght's cere­mony command itself and fittingly does the presentation come through one of our Nation's distinguished sons, a man of honor among his fel­lowmen; a man who serves his coun­try's cause in peace as faithfully as did Meagher in the war, the Honor­able Thomas J. Walsh, United States Senator from Montana:" 




Summer School Plans Announced 
Summer Session, Boy Leadership Course andColumbia Branch Offer Opportunities for Alumni To Enjoy Profitable Periods of Study Under N.D. Guidance at Low Cost 
The fifteenth summer session of the University of Notre Dame will open on Tuesday, the 20th of June, 1933, and will continue for six weeks, to Wednesday, the 2nd of August. Graduate and undergraduate courses are offered by all departments in Arts and Letters and by all depart­ments in Science, except that of Phar­macy. A few courses will be offered by the College of Law, the College of Engineering, and the College of Com­merce, of general interest to the stu­dent in Arts and Letters or in Sci­ence, who may take any of these courses as elective for credit toward the degree of bachelor of arts or bachelor of science. 
The courses offered in the summer session are designed to meet the needs of the following groups, of men and Sisters: 1) undergraduates who de­sire to secure extra credits or to make up deficiencies; 2) teachers in private or in public schools who wish to prepare themselves better for their work or to secure a higher rating from the State certification bodies; 
3) persons holding the bachelor's degree who wish to secure an ad­vanced degree in arts and letters or in science. 
In the summer session of 1933 courses will be offered in art, biology, chemistry, economics, education, Eng­lish, French, German, history, journ­alism, Latin, law, mathematics, mech­anical drawing, music (instrumental and vocal), philosophy, physics, physi­°'ogy> politics, psychology, religion, sociology, Spanish, speech, zoology, and library science. 
As regards method, character, and credit value, the work of the summer session is, in so far as possible, the same as that of the regular year. Most of the classes meet five times a week. A credit of Wo semester hours is given for a course meeting one per­iod a day for five days in a week. The regular class periods extend from 8:00 to 11:50 and 1:15 to 4:05—four periods in the morning and three in the afternoon. In the undergraduate division the maximum number of hours of credit which any student may earn in the session is eight. This usually means a carrying of four classes, held for a period of 50 min­utes five times a week. In laboratory and studio courses two clock hours count as one class hour. Students are warned not to attempt a too ambi­tious program in the summer session. The work in the summer is. for .sev­eral reasons, more intensive than that of the regular school-year. 
A student more than 21 years of age who does not wish to become a candidate for a degree by taking the prescribed courses of a regular pro­gram may, with the approval of the Director of Studies, register as a spe­cial student and attend, without credit, courses of instruction for which his academic training has fitted him. The special student under 23 years of age must satisfj"^ the usual entrance requirements. The courses taken by the special student can never be counted toward any degree at the University. In academic matters he is under the jurisdiction of the head of the department in which he does the greater part of his work, and he is subject to the same academic regulations and discipline as other students. 

For the student entering the Uni­versity for the first time there is a matriculation fee of $10. The tuition fee for the summer session is $30. 
Visiting teachers will be: Rev. Wil­liam A. Bolger, C.S.C, Ph.B., College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minnesota— Professor of Economics; Sir Carl Busch, Kansas City, Missouri—In­structor in Music; Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C, Ph.D.. College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minnesota— Professor of Education; Sister M. Hieronyme, O.M., A.B., St. Xavier Academy, Latrobe, Pennsylvania — Instructor in Library Science; Mr. J. Hobart Hoskins, Ph.D., University of Cincinnati — Associate Professor of Botany; Miss Ellen D. Kistler, A.B. —Instructor in Library Science; Mr. .lohn A. Lemmer, A.M., Principal, Escanaba High School, Escanaba, Michigan — Instructor in Education; Rev. Joseph J. McCartney, C.S.C, S.T.L.. Holy Cross College, Brook-land, D. C—Instructor in Education; Mr. J. M. O'Rourke. Illinois State Normal University, Normal, Illinois —^Instructor in Education; Miss Agnes Hope Pillsbury, Chicago, Illi­nois — Instructor in Music: Rev. James J. Quinlan, C.S.C, A.M., Col­umbia University, Portland, Oregon —Associate Professor of Economics; Sister M. Veronique, A,M., Salt Lake City. Utah—^Instructor in English. 
The University of Notre Dame con­ducts a branch of its summer session at Columbia University, Portland, Oregon. The session at Coliraibia this year will open on the 19th of Jnne and close on the 30th of July. The courses are given by members of the regular faculty of the University of Notre Dame, members of the faculty of Columbia Universitv. and a few visiting teachers, specially aualified for the work. Rev. Ch^irles C. Milt­ner, CS.C, will direct the session. 
The Department of Boy Guidance 

The ninth annual summer session in Boy Leadership will be conducted by the Department of Boy Guidance in cooperation with the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus, from July the 6th to the 14th, inclus­ive.. This nine-day intensive training in leadership has proved one of the most popular and practical features of the boys' work program estab­lished by the Knights of Columbus, and this year the University is again offering its facilities to the Catholic men who may wish to take advantage of this short course of training. 
The session is open to all Catholic men more than 18 years of age and is especially recommended for council officers, Columbian Squire counsellors, scout and club leaders, parish recre­ational workers. Big Brothers, and other Catholic men engaged in any kind of boys' work. Men students, religious or lay, of the regular sum­mer session of the University are welcome to attend as many sessions of the boy-leadership course as their time permits. For these students there is no fee for the course in lead­ership. 
Ever since the inauguration of the summer training program in boy lead­ership, pastors and assistants as well as interested laymen have availed themselves of the unusual opportun­ity provided. More than 60 per cent of the students enrolled in the class of 1932 were members of the clergy, who were enthusiastic in their praise of the matter and methods of the ses­sion. 
The course in boy leadership is con­ducted on a cost-to-student basis, with one fee, of S20, for meals, lodg­ing, tuition and literature—of which $5 is payable at the time of registra­tion and the rest when the student arrives at the University. The offi­cers and instructors are members of the University faculty, the staff of the Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau, and representatives of other national organizations in boys' work. The program consists of lectures and demonstrations, with activities per­iods so scheduled as to provide the maximum of instruction in the most pleasant manner. Those who take the course reside in the regular residence halls of the University and take their meals at the Univer.sity dining hall. 
Application for admission to the course should be made to Mr, Ray­mond A, Hoyer, head of the Depart­ment of Boy Guidance, Notre Dame, Indiana, Registration for the course will be possible up to the morning of the opening day. 
March, 1933 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 153 

Stepping Stones to Success 
The Unusually Interesting Career of New I. A. C. President John F. Gushing, from its Humble Beginning 
(In the 

Success is somewhat of an abstract thing- which comes through various routes. But there is one certain yard­stick by which its attainment may be measured—and that is the hard work, using obstacles as stepping stones to accomplishment, and an iron deter­mination to do what one sets out to do. That in short epitomizes the ca­reer of John F. Gushing. 
At the recent annual meeting the members of the Illinois Athletic Club voted to make Mr. Gushing their pres­ident. But, few if any, know the re­markable story of success that marks this very distinguished and modest man. 
His innate modesty concerning his own achievement is as a rule a bar­rier to revealing the unusual career of this leader whom we are proud to have as president of the Illinois Ath­letic Club. 
We know that he is president of the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., one of the foremost marine construction concerns in the world. And that he is an acknowledged civic leader. But how did he get there? 
Therein lies a story which Horatio 
Alger migh well have used as the te.\t 
for one of his famous and heroic nar­
ratives. 
Every member of the Club — and every Chicagoan for that matter — ought to know the inspiring story back of Mr. Cushing's rise. 
It shows how a man with grit and determination, with no opportunity save that which he alone creates, may perform the figurative miracle of "lifting himself up by the bootstraps." 
His early days up to eight years were spent on a farm. He was born at Arapahoe, Neb., in 1SS2, the son of a blacksmith who had learned his trade in Fort Winnebago, Wis., who came to Nebraska in 1876, taking up a government homestead. 
Presently the farm was sold and the family moved by way of the pio­neer picturesque covered wagon to the northwest Pacific coast, living at Seattle, Wash., and Portland, Ore., for several years. 
At the age of fourteen, young John 
F. found himself without the comforts of home and so he returned to Ne­braska, working his way through grammar and high school in the town of Cambridge. In 1900 he graduated from the township public schools. 
Intensely eager for further learning 
By A. L. SLOAX 

"Tri-Color." Official Organ of the lllinoh Athletic Club) 
he found hard times a temporary ob­stacle to pursuit of his educational ambitions. So he served two years as a blacksmith's apprentice, and then entered Nebraska State University at Lincoln, working his way through for two years. 
Then he found employment in Chi­cago. But the thirst for more knowl­edge would not do\vn, and the follow­ing summer he entered the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. He graduated in 1906 as a civil engineer, leaving a financial debt to the university. 
During his Notre Dame days he 
worked in summer vacations for the 
Barber Asphalt Paving Co., and upon 
graduating returned to their employ 
in Chicago. In September, 1906, he 
was married to Harriet M. Webber at 
Chicago. 
His career with the Great Lake.'; 
Dredge & Dock Co. began Oct. 15, 
1907. He started as a timekeeper, be­
coming successively a material man, 
a field engineer, and filled various 
other posts. His first job was on the 
Lawrence avenue water intake crib. 
It took two years to build this crib 
which was a mile from shore. The 
work went forward 24 hours a day, 
si.x days a week and John F. was al­
ways on the job. He spent Sundays 
at home, if weather conditions per­
mitted his departure from the crib 
out in the lake. 
For five years his salary was §90 a month. Meanwhile two sons came to the young Jlr. and Mrs. Gushing. And this was before Mr. Gushing had been able to pay Notre Dame what he owed for his education. A plan to go west with his family was cut short by his employers who did not want to lose him. They put him on a so-called bonus list as an incentive to stay. By this time Mr. Gushing had studied carefully the work in various depart­ments and after bringing about some important changes was given a junior position, and progress was gradual for five succeeding years. Meanwhile came two more sons to brighten the family threshold. And from then on the rise to the top was rapid. 
In 1917 Mr. Gushing became divi­sion engineer at Chicago, two years later he was appointed assistant gen­eral manager of the four western di­visions of the companj'. In 1922 he became a director and president of the company, and in 192S, chairman of the board. He holds both positions now. 
The Gushing family consists of five sons and two daughters. They live in a new home in Evanston. Two of the older sons are in business, the five other children are in schools. 
In 1929 Mr. Gushing was made a member of the Board of Lay Trus­tees of Notre Dame. Out of gratitude for the aid rendered him by his alma mater when he had no funds Mr. Gushing donated a $300,000 engineer­ing building to Notre Dame in 1931. It was dedicated June 4, 1932, follow­ing the donation of the commerce building by Edward N. Hurley. 
It took six months for the public to learn that Mr. Gushing had made the $300,000 donation for the engi­neering hall. His habitual modesty concerning his own beneficence again asserted itself and he asked that his name be withheld. 
Such is the inherent character of the man who prefers to leave his own deeds unsaid and unsung. But he is proud of the accomplishments of his friends and associates, and wants to see that they receive due credit. He is an all-around good fellow, is fond of golf and fishing and football, fol­lowing avidly the athletic triumphs of his beloved Notre Dame throughout the seasons. He is a member of the American Society of Civil Engineers, Edgewater Golf Club. Western Soci­ety of Engineers and joined the 
I. A. C., November 22, 1922. October 15 of this year he was feted by mem­bers of the Great Lakes organization on a quarter of a century service with the company. And along about the same time Mr. and Mrs. Gushing celebrated their silver wedding an­niversary. 
Ask Mr. Gushing to what he most attributes the success attained and he will undoubtedly tell you it was the inspiration, courage and wisdom of the charming Mrs. Gushing. They met first while John F. was working his way through the little Nebraska high school, and w^ere married later in Chicago. 
The devoted mother of a large fam­ily of seven children Mrs. Gushing has always found time ior the social ac­tivities of the Illinois Athletic Club. She has been one of the most con­stant patrons of the club affairs and in the happenings on the mezzanine. 
And under the leadership of the new first lady of the I. A. C. the so­cial affairs will unquestionably take on added zest and new ardor. 
N. D. Professor WITIS Catholic Poetry Aivard 
First prize for the best poem sub­mitted to the current bulletin of the Catholic Poetry Society of America has been awarded to Professor Louis 
LOUIS HASLEY 
His poejn 07itstandi7ig. 
Hasley, '30, of the University's De­partment of English, according to the contents'of that periodical which was sent here this week. Mr. Hasley's poem, "To A Dream," follows: 
Lie still my loved one. in eternal sleep. You were too much divine, too little bred To human nurture: now the placeless deep Invites an airy pillow for your head. No more the silken music dims the liKht To float >"Ou high above a day forlorn Or sec arise the flaming hounds frt>m nicht To bay an answer to a distant horn. Yet rest you, now the hunger pains have pone. Rebuke me not; my hounds and charger failed— The horn was blown too late by laggard Dawn. 
The quarry \*anished as the distance paled. 
Starved here on earth you yet a banquet won: 
It was a dream of sweet oblivion. 
President of the Catholic Poetry Society of America is the Reverend Charles O'Donnell, C.S.C, President of the University, and one of the truly recognized Catholic poets of the country. 
An editorial in the February Bul­letin has this to say: "The Catholic Poetry Society of America is now country-wide. Its members live in 40 states of the Union, five provinces of Canada are represented, and there is a sole, but honored member in Aus­tria. With is present success the Soc­iety feels justified in existence and in its appeal to members for cooperation patience, and support." (Scholastic.) 


Al Feeney Becomes "Sub-Czar" to McNutt 
Among the principal factors enab­ling Gov. Paul McNutt of Indiana to eifect the economies that have at­tracted nation-wide attention and approval is his one-man solution to all of the state welfare problems— the one man being Al G. Feeney, In­dianapolis, Class of 1913, basketball star from 1910 to 1913, captain of the quintet in the latter year, and a monogram football man in 1911-12-13, playing center on the eleven that boasted Knute Eockne and his then able and now famous contemporaries. 
Al is five ofBcials — more, if you count the commission form of gov­ernment he supplanted—in the new Indiana set-up. 
Recalling his old basketball exper­ience, he is playing one forward as state fire marshal; another forward as chief of the state police. He is playing center as state athletic com­missioner. The guard berths are in­cluded as chief of the bureau of crim­inal investigation and identification. 
and the latest, temporary excise di­rector, primarily concerned with prob­lems brought about by Indiana's re­peal of the Wright law which forbade even medicinal liquor. 
These various duties were former­ly distributed among persons and commissions and their concentration has resulted in definite economies and probable increases in their effective administration. 
The confidence displayed by Gov. McNutt in putting Al in charge of these manifold and vital activities is one of the finest tributes to a Notre Dame man in public life. Al has been prominent in Indiana sporting and business circles and possesses both personal attributes and contacts which make him an ideal man for the sev­eral jobs. 
You'll hear more about Al and his numerous capacities, because the na­tion's eyes are on the Indiana experi­ment. 


N.D. Thunder Makes Universal's Storm Scenes 
"The Voice of the Film" by Jerry Lane in a recent Saturday Evening Post tells an interesting story of how sounds are caught or manu­factured for the talkies. Thunder, it seems, is a very difiicult problem for the studio technicians, hence the credit given to an alert sound record­er who "scooped" a thunder storm here at Notre Dame. Says Jerry Lane: 
Universal, however, has genuine peals that, so far, arc among the best in any library stock. It was through a singu­lar chance that they came by their thunder. A sound unit had been sent back to Indiana for The Spirit of Notre Dame, and while the recorder was in the stadium one afternoon, he saw hea\'y black clouds bearing down on him. He started up his equipment quickly—here was the opportunity he'd been antici­pating. 
There is a friendly but none the less keenly oompetiti%-e spirit among the sound staffs of the studios, and if he could steal some good thunder it would mean points ahead for Universal. As the reverberations came closer, he put on his head phones to listen to what the mike was picking up. An instant later he had thrown them off and was stag­gering half unconscious toward a bench. Lightning had struck a tree a block away. 
The roar that followed was so deaf­ening it seemed as if his eardnnns had been split. And he was certain his apparatus had been ruined. But when the negative was developed, there was all the clash and the beating of a thou­sand drums imprisoned in film. By making fresh prints of it. Universal will have suflicient thunder for years to come. 
They can double it up or get any combination of peals and claps and rumbles that they •want by cutting the prints and splicing ' the pieces together. Part of this thunder was dubbed in for The Old Dark House and they put the patter of rain under it. 

Holy Cross Priest Will Teach In Philosophy Dept. 
The Reverend Philip Moore, C.S.C, a graduate of the class of 1924, has been added to the faculty of the De­partment of Philosophy, according to Father Miltner, head of the depart­ment and dean of the College of Arts and Letters. Father Moore will as­sume his duties in September. 
Father Moore has recently passed with highest honors his examination for an advanced degree in Paleo­graphy at the Ecole Nationale Des Chartes, Paris. The title of his dis­sertation is "Les Oeuvres De Pierre Des Portiers." 
After his graduation from Notre Dame, Father Moore spent four years at Holy Cross College, Washington, 
D. C, in the study of Theology. He also spent a year in teaching at the Catholic University. Following this, he -went to France where he has been studying since. 
Father Moore will direct Philosophy work in the graduate field at Notre Dame. 




New Religious Survey Published 
Father John O'Hara, C.S.C., '11, Edits 1931-2 Report of Notre Dame's Famous Student Religious Life; Copies Being Sent to All Alumni 
The annual Religious Survey of the University of Notre Dame will be presented on the campus tomorrow. In its current form, it covers the re­ligious activities of the students throughout the school year 1931-32. It is the twelfth report of its kind. 
Father John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, Prefect of Religion, as usual, has compiled the various statistics that serve to make up the survey. They were obtained from the answers re­ceived on a questionnaire that was composed expressly for this purpose, and circulated among the students last year, to be answered at their dis­cretion, and returned unsigned. 
In a preface that must be recog­nized as the utterance of the sound judgment of which he speaks. Father O'Hara discusses religion in educa­tional institutions. Commenting on state-supported schools he writes: "Our constitutional guarantee of lib­erty of conscience has taken the teacher of religion out of the state-supported class-room, but no check has been devised as yet to prevent the propagandist of atheism from destroyng the faith of his pupils. 
"Catholic education, on the other hand, protected by the infallibility of the Church in faith and morals, has pursued its serene course, but has found itself more and more isolated in its role of spiritual guide and mor­al adviser of the young." 
Defendin g religious education 
RE\'EREN-D JOHN O'HARA, C.S.C. "Catholic education. . . . protected. . . . has pursued its serene course." 
against the accusation that "it robbed the student of zeal for scholarship," Father O'Hara said: "It has kindled their ambition, for it taught them to offer their work for the honor and glory of God." 
The contents of the Religious Sur­vey are classified into two groups based on the devotion to the Blessed Sacrament. The answers received from the students were divided into those classed either as frequent com­municants or infrequent communi­cants. The substantial difference in 

Pope Makes C. J. Stubhs, '88, K. S. G. 
(The following news from the Gal­veston News is of edifying interest to all Notre Dame men.) 
The pontifical decoration of Knight of St. Gregory of the civil division has been bestowed upon Charles J. Stubbs, well-known Galveston attor­ney, by Pope Pius, according to of­ficial documents received from Rome by Most Reverend C. E. Byrne, bishop of Galveston. 
The decoration which was conferred upon Mr. Stubbs was founded in 1831 by Pope Gregory XVI to reward out­standing civil or military service by Catholic laymen, it was explained by Reverend Thomas A. Carney, rector of St. Mary's Cathedral, and has two divisions, ci\'il and military. Mr. Stubbs is a knight of the civil divi­sion. 
The ceremony of investiture will be held on a date to be announced later at a solemn public function in St. Mary's Cathedral, with Bishop Byrne presiding. 
The decoration is a bifurcated of eight - pointed red enameled gold cross, in the center of which is im­pressed in gold the image of St. Greg­ory and at the side of his head near the ear is a dove. In a circle around 
the answers in these two classes is, for the most part, noticeable. 
The pride that Notre Dame right­fully e.\hibits in its enviable record of daily Communions is borne out by the facts that appear in the first chapter of the Survey. The results obtained from this devotional prac­tice, in most instances, were reported by the students as beneficial and in­strumental in exciting increased ferv­or in their Catholic faith. 
Spiritual Guidance, treated in its general aspect, relative to the activ­ities in that regard on the campus, forms another major division in the Bulletin. It presents interesting opin­ions and thoughts on all religious ac­tivity, such as attendance at, and ben­efit derived from the missions, con­structive value of sermons, thoughts of a religious vocation, and the topic of spiritual reading. 
Home and School Influences, Char­ity, and Present Attitudes and Future Prospects are the titles of the re­maining principal divisions in the survey. They are significant from the standpoint of the candor with which the answers were submitted, and should prove intensely interesting to readers of the Survey. 
Copies of the Survey are being sent to all those on the ALUMNUS mail­ing list. If yours does not arrive or you wish an e.xtra copy, write the Editor. 
the image appears in golden letters, "S. Gregorius Magnus." On the re­verse side is the device, "Pro Deo et Principe," and in the center around it, "Gregorius XVI, P. M., Anno L." The badge is the cross of the order surrounded with silver rays. The rib­bon of the order is red with orange borders. The cross worn by a knight of the civil division is surmounted by a crown of gold oak leaves. 
Mr. Stubbs has been outstanding in Catholic church affairs of Galves­ton for many years and in addition is widely known in legal circles. The order with which he has been dec­orated, as Reverend Father Carney explained, is "to honor men of emi­nent merits who have promoted the interests of their country or the church." 

ATHLETICS: 
By Joseph Petritz, '32 

Basketball 
Haley, business manager of athletics. An announcement regarding the field house is expected momentarily. The need of additional funds,' however, cannot be stressed too greatly. 
Anderson's problem in the si.x weeks of spring football is to develop men to replace the eight graduating varsity men. The 1932 team has been all but wrecked by the loss of its mainstays. Capt. Paul Host and Ed Kosky will be missing at the ends; Joe Kurth, captain of the AU-Ameri­can team at right tackle, and Mike Leding, resen-e left tackle who is in the running for valedictory honors with his 96 average, will hurt this part of the line; Jim Harris, Norm Greenej', and Bill Pierce are lost at the guard positions — the former two were regulars last season — and Ben Ale.\ander will be gone at center. 
In the backfield, the quarterback problem is paramount, with Jask­which, Murphy, and Vejar all finish­ing in June. The left and right half­backs, Mike Koken and Joe Sheeket­sld, will also be missing at the kick­off next fall. 
The team will be built around Jack Robinson, center; Ed "Moose" Krause at left tackle; Hughie Devore at right end; Nick Lukats at left half; Ray Brancheau at right half; and George Melinkovich at fullback. All Anderson has to do is to fill the other gaps and go out and win nine games on the hardest schedule ever lined up for the Fighting Irish. 
Golf and tennis schedules for 1933, announced recently by the board of athletic control, are as follows: 
Golf 
April 22—Loyola at Chicago. April 29—Purdue at Lafayette. May 6—Michigan State- here. May 9—^Michigan State here. May 13—Illinois here. May 20—Chicago here. May 27—State meet at Terre Haute. 
Tennis 
April 22—Valparaiso here. April 29—Michigan State at East 

Lansing. May 6—^Michigan State here. May 12—^Northwestern at Evanston. May 19 — Michigan State Normal 
here. May 25—Chicago at Chicago. Hopes for a third undefeated golf 
It's how you finish and not how you start which counts in any race — and the charges of Coach George Keogan are all set to finish their season as one of the best basketball teams in the country. 
Here is a glance at Keogan's prob­lems and how he solved them. He lost Bill Newbold, Ray DeCook, Tom Bums, and Capt. Norb Crowe from last year's varsity, along with Clay Johnson (now freshman coach) and Al Schumacher, resen'es. 
He opened his season before Big Ed Krause had joined the squad at the end of football season. Capt. Johnny Baldwin, guard, got the flu and missed three games. Leo Crowe, an­other guard, had his arm dislocated in a scramble against Purdue. M McGuff, still another guard, got the flu and missed several games. 
What with an almost entirely ine.v­perienced squad, injury, and pesti­lence to combat, Keogan found an­other horseman in the class of op­position he had lined up for these early games. Ohio State, Big Ten champion; Northwestern, runner - up in the Big Ten; Butler, Missouri Val­ley champs; Pittsburgh, one of the strongest teams in the East, with only two defeats on its record (be­sides the one Notre Dame gave it last month); Purdue, one of the stronger dark horses in the Big Ten, and a Notre Dame bugaboo; and Mar­quette, defeated only twice all year. 


Football 
These are the teams Notre Dame lost to. They defeated three of them —^Northwestern, Pittsburgh, and But­ler in return games. They played Marquette at Milwaukee March 7 and wiped out the previous defeat with a 36-34 victory. Saturday night's victory over Wabash and the Mar­quette win ran Notre Dame's present victory string to ten straight. Min­nesota is the remaining opponent. Following is the season record to date: 
NOTRE DASIE BASKETBALL 
SCHEDULE, 1932-33 
Dec. S—Notre Dame 41. Albion 20. 
Dec. 15—^Notre Dame 24, 111. Wcsleyan 12. 
Dec 19—^Notre Dame 2S. Northwestern 25. 
Dec. 23—Purdue 36, Notre Dame 31. 
Dec. 28—Ohio State 30, Notre Dame 24. 
Dec. 31—^Northwestern 33, Notre Dame 2D. 
Jan. 7—Marquette 35, Notre Dame 32. 
Jan. 9—Notre Dame 36, Mich. State 19. 
Jan. 14—Butler 27, Notre Dame 25. 
Jan. 17—Notn: Dame 30, Slinnesota 22. 
Jan. 21—^Pittsburgh 39, Notre Diune 35. 
Jan. 23—Notre Dame 42, Toledo 14. 
Feb. 1—^Notre Dame 37, Carnegie Tech 35. 
Feb. 4—Notre Dame 39, Chicago 26. 
Feb. 11—Notre Dame 38. Pittsburgh 31. 
Feb. 18—Notre Dame 36, Pennsylvania 24. 
Feb. 20—N. D. 40. Western Reserve S5. 
Feb. 24—N. D, 30, Michigan State 25. 
Jlar. 1—Notre Dame 42, Butler 41. 
Mar. 4—^Notre Dame 43. "Wabash 29. 
Mar. 7—^Notre Dame 35, Marquette 34. 
Mar. 11—^Notre Dame 31. Minnesota 27. 

February 2S was newsreel day, with some 350 candidates for \-arsity foot­ball honors reporting to Head Coach Heartly (Hunk) Anderson. A few nights previous, the annual mono­gram football dinner, restricted this year to members of the varsity and freshman squads, and the managers, had brought forth the announcement of several changes in Notre Dame's athletic policy. 
The Rev. M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, vice-president of the University and chairman of the athletic board of con­trol, told the assembled players that in the future the captain of the Notre Dame football team will be elected at the end rather than at the beginning of each season. A captain for each game will be appointed by Coach JVn­derson. 
James Harris, ail-American guard 

on several teams, was named the most valuable player on the squad and received the silver football em­blematic of the distinction. This hon­or will be an annual one at Notre Dame, Father Mulcaire announced. The name of the player voted most valuable will be woven into the first football blanket ever won by the late Knute Rockne, a blanket which will hang in the Rockne Memorial Field House. 
Monograms of a distinctive design will be awarded members of the Notre Dame resen'es or "B" football teams for 1932 and future years. Father Mulcaire announced. 
March 31 of this month will mark the second anniversarj' of the death of Rockne. Contributions for the pro­posed Rockne Memorial Field House are still being received by J. Arthur 
March, 193S THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
team in four years lie largely in the return to school of Johnny Banks, LaGrange, Western Junior cham­pion for 1932. He will team with William Cole, number one frosh star from Paulina, Kans.; Capt. John Montedonico of Memphis, number 3 last year; William Veeneman, Louis­ville, number one last year; and Vin­cent Fehlig, St. Louis, number 4 last year. 
The tennis team hasn't any hopes in particular, but the following men will go out and do their best: Capt. Louis Chreist of South Bend, school champion; Dick Kelly of Neenah, Wis., number 2; John O'Hanlon of Washington, D. C, number 3; F. Seton Staley, Cincinnati, number 5; and Ed­mond Power, Columbus, number 6. 

LATE ATHLETICS 
N. D. Five Wins Last Game 
Minneapolis, Minn., March 11.— Notre Dame won its 11th successive basketball victory tonight by defeat­ing Minnesota, 31 to 27, in a rough and tumble contest which handed the Gophers their loth setback in 20 en­gagements. 
Minnesota was ahead at the half, 22 to 15, but fell before an insistent attack by Notre Dame which also drew up a tighter defense for the closing period. It was Notre Dame's 16th victory in 22 games. 
N. D. Fifth in C. I, C. Meet 
Michisan Nor. ..31>/4 City Col. Detroit..5 Michigan State . .28 2-3 PittsburRh 1 Marquette 14 Arniour Tech 3 Western State N. H 2-3 Hillsdale 3 Notre Dame 11 Loyola. ChicaKo ...2 Butler -»4 
Notre Dame, Ind., March 11.—One world's record and two Central Inter­collegiate conference marks were shattered today as Michigan Normal of Ypsilanti won the seventh annual 
C. I. C. meet with 31% points. Mich­igan State was second with 28 2-5. 
Ralph Metcalfe of Marquette, who a week ago set a world record of 6.7 seconds in the 60 meter dash, today shaved one-tenth of a second off the world record of 6.2 seconds in the 60 yard dash. Metcalfe was caught in 6.1 seconds by the three official watches and two supplementary watches. 
The old mark was made by Loren Muchison in 1923 when he was run­ning for the Newark A. C. The con­ference record, also 6.2 seconds, was established by Jack Elder of Notre Dame in 1928. 
Bay Swartz of Western State Teachers, defending mile champion took three seconds off the record in 
Tom Conley, 1930 Grid Capt. Returns to Notre Dame as Assistant. 
Tom Conley, captain of the 1930 Notre Dame national championship football team, has returned here in the capacity of assistant football coach. 
Conley, one of the outstanding athletes ever produced at Roman Catholic high school in Philadelphia, won three football monograms while a member of Knute Rockne's '28, '29, and '30 teams. He also played on the Irish basketball varsitj-. 
Since leaving Notre Dame, Conley has been head football coach at La-Salle college in Philadelphia. His place there will be taken by Marty Brill, all-Ameriean halfback with the 1930 Notre Dame team. Brill acted as assistant coach to ConJey last fall. 
this event, finishing in four minutes, 
21.5 seconds. LeRoy Dues, colored star for City College of Detroit, successfully de­fended his title in the shot put and broke his own conference record by nearly a foot with a heave of 48 feet YH inches. The old mark was 47 feet 9Ta inches. Capt Ted Bath and Ken Liberty finished first and second in the high hurdles, while Michigan Normal's aces. Ken (Red) Simmons and Gene Beatty, took the first two places in the low hurdles. Notre Dame took a first in the high jump when Vincent Murphy. Cleve­land sophomore, leaped six feet 4% inches. The mile relay team was third. Roberts took fourth in the 880; Finkel scored a fourth in the shot put; Young placed fourth in the two-
mile run and F. Murphy was fourth in the 60-yard dash. 
Joe Kurth To Direct Annual Monogram Revue. 
The "Absurdities," annual stage frolic of the Monogram dob, will be staged in Washington hall on the evenings of April 27 and 28. Joe Kurth has been appointed director of the show which will present skits by several famed stage personages who have written exdusively for this year's stage production. 
Short, rapid, little acts have been given to the dub by Joe E. Brown and Ed Wynn. Other contributors include Carl Krusada of Fox Film Corporation, J. Kay Hunt, N. D. '28, Joe McCabe and Dave Powers. 
The sequence of the skits has been arranged in detail by Kurth who has also written a sizeable portion of ma­terial to be used as connecting links betsveen the various acts. . 
Bachman At Michigan State 
Charley Bachman, '17, has come nearer the old home territory with his appointment to the job at Mich­igan State College vacated when Jim­my Crowley, '25, went to Fordham. Charley was on the campus for the 
C I. C. track meet March 11 in 
•which Michigan State scored second place. Jimmy, by the way, was be­ing dined and interviewed extensively in New York while the Editor was there. 
The Fordham coaching staff besides Jim includes Judge Carberry, '23, and Frank Leahy, '31, who were with him at Michigan State and Earl Walsh, '22, formerly coach of Des Moines Catholic College, one of Notre Dame's great defensive backs in a period alive with great backs. Which brings to mind that Dr. Johnny Mohardt, one of those said backs, an Ail-American choice in '21, was a campus visitor recently. 

Bob Inniger's Wedding 

We missed one of the big weddings of last summer, if a Log Chapel wed­ding can be big, when Bob Irmiger, '27, former G. K. of the N. D. Coun­cil, K. of C, w-as married there by Rev. John Reynolds, C.S.C, coimcil chaplain. Bob and Mrs. Irmiger are now living at 7350 Phillips Ave. Prob­ably the reason for the scarcity of news of the wedding is contained in a note from Tommy O'Connor, '27, former chancellor while Bob was G. 
K. Tom says that the chimes in Sacred Heart Church played America while the ceremony was being per­formed and Taps as the party was leaving the Chapel, and Bob has nev­er been convinced that they were be­ing tested. 
Notre Dame's All-America Captains 
By /. Ray Hunt, '28 
Notre Dame abandons the practice of electing a football captain for the entire season, and relegates to the past the tradition that "a Notre Dame captain is an AIl-American." 
Ever since Adam Walsh held the reins for the Four Horsemen and Seven Mules of 1924, Notre Dame's football captains have won All-Amer­ica recognition. 
Walsh, who will never be forgotten because of his plucky play against the Army despite two broken hands, was the first of the long list of Fight­ing Irish captains to become All-Americas. He was the unanimous choice for All-America center. 
The 1925 Irish leader, Clem Crowe, was certain of All-America honors until injuries, received in midseason, forced him.out of the lineup and kept him on the sidelines throughout the last half of a difficult schedule. 
The two red-heads of the backfield —Gene Edwards and Tom Hearden— shared the captaincy in 1926. Ed­wards was the leader on offense, Hearden on defense. They performed so capably that both received honor­able mention on numerous mythical elevens, while their teammate. Bud Boeringer, walked away with all hon-
TOMMY YAEE, '32 
Ttvo losses didn't stop him. 
JOHN LAW 
Stood oitt on a champion team. 

or as the All-America center that sea­son. 
The Irish monogram winners elected John "Clipper" Smith as cap­tain of the 1927 eleven. He was a guard, and such an outstanding one that no AU-.America selector over­looked him. 
It was Fred Miller's ill luck to cap­tain the most defeated Notre Dame team in recent years, the 192S aggre­gation that lost four games. De­spite the poor showing of his team, Miller's play at tackle was sufficiently brilliant to draw the All-America spotlight. 
Under Captain Johnny Law in 1929, Notre Dame began its great winning streak. The Irish won the national championship that season, and Cap­
tain Law won a guard berth on every 
.\11--A.merica of consequence. 
The Irish victory march was ex­tended through the 1930 season and Tom Conley, captain and end, found his. name in many an .A.n-American lineup. 
Not even the tail-end defeats by Southern California and Army could detract from the true greatness of the 1931 Notre Dame team and its cap­tain and center. Tommy Yarr. Yarr was the tmanimous choice for his po­sition on the All-America. 
Captain Paul Host of the 1932 team broke the long string of Notre Dame gridiron leaders who won All-Ameri­ca recognition. His play at right end (to which he was shifted in his final season) while captain, did not measure up tp the All-America stand­ard for Irish ^\^ngmen and Notre Dame captains. 
Devore, an end, and Ed Krause, a tackle, were leading candidates for the 1933 captaincy. Either would have made an ideal leader of the Fighting Irish in the football wars of next fall. One or the other, prob­ably both, will win All-America fame. If they do, they will do so without be­ing captain of the Notre Dame team. ' 
The Notre Dame athletic board of control has ruled that no captain will be elected for the entire season. In­stead, Coach Heartley (Hunk) An­derson will appoint a different cap­tain for each game. 
PAUL HOST, '33 

Last of the Notre Dame captains. 
LOST BUT NOT LEAST 
Material too late to classify, lost on the desk or in the files, etc. 
Comes Now Chicago 

Dear Jim: Now that the banks are open again and there is nothing to worry about, I hasten to comply with your very reasonable request for information about the recent and what evidently seemed to you "secret" meeting for the election of ofiicers of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
The annual meeting for the elec­tion of officers was held Thursday evening, February 23 at the Midland Club. Father Eugene Burke was the guest of honor and speaker of the evening. The new States Attorney of Cook County. Thomas J. Courtney, also addressed the assemblage, as did Riger Kiley, '22, who was recently elected to the City Council as Alder­man of the 37th ward. 
Honorary president, C. C. Mitchell, '02; president, Austin A. McNichols, '17; first vice-president, T. CliiFord Noonan, '24; second vice-president, John M. Montague, '23; secretary, William Kearney, '28; treasurer, Nor­man N. Feltes, '24. 
The following men were elected to fill three vacancies on the Board of Governors: Dr. Edward N. Anderson, '22; Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17; William R. Maher, '24. 
The new President has called a meeting of the officers and Board of Governors for March 16 to appoint chairmen of the various committees for the current year. The first of which will be for Universal Night. 
Austin's address is in care of W. 
A. Alexander &. Co., 134 South La-Salle St. I am sorry but I do not know Kearney's address from whom you may have heard by this time or perhaps you have it in your files. 
Danny Hilgartner. 
Alderman Kiley 

Roger J. Kiley, football, basketball, and baseball star for Notre Dame in 1919, 1920, and 1921, was elected al­derman of the 37th ward in Chicago at the recent election, ^vinning by 13,221 to 5,473 over the incumbent, Wiley W. Mills. Both are Democrats. 
"His campaign," according to the ' Chicago Tribune, "was given a met­ropolitan flavor with the Democrats pulling in leading public office-holders from their ranks to speak for him." 
Thirty-two aldermen wer e re­elected and 13 new men were elected, Kiley among them. 
1918 Note 

Tom Kelly is an active member of the very active Notre Dame club in Milwaukee. He is'a candidate for Su­preme Court Justice in the election April 4th. Tom's address is 806 N. 11th St. 
John A. Lemmer. 
Keady Tragedy 

The ALUMNUS records with deep regret the very brief news just re­ceived of the death of the brother of Dr. Maurice B. Keady, former presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of New York, and the serious injury of Dr. Keady, in an automobile accident at Watkins Glen, N. Y. 
News For '32 

The Class Secretary, Herb Giorgio, 
having fulfilled the academic require­
ments of Notre Dame, left at the end 
of the first semester for his favorite 
haunts in HoUis, N. Y. —9005 188th 
St. if you lads in more rustic environs 
can get some M.E. to figure out that 
address in simple terms. 
Meantime we learn a little news of 
the Class from Bob Streb: 
•32News 

Dear Jim: 
This small contribution to my mem­bership account perhaps is just the proverbial drop in the bucket but, my "water pail" hasn't had the sides wet since I left in June. I think you understand — graduation, big cruel world to conquer and the 1932 year. The result no work and another de­linquent alumnus. 
Well I have finally put a dollar aside and here it is, maybe you can put it in petty cash and continue my edition of the ALUIINUS. 
While I am two-fingering this type­writer I might contribute the news of the alumni in this territory. Wm. Waltz now working in the Ohio Mer­chants Bank at Mass. 0. John Walsh of same town is still waiting for an opening. Last Tues. John Beljohn and his band played for a dance sponsored by the Mass. K. of C. and it turned out to be a N. D. Reunion for Canton and Massillon Boys. R. Conley is selling general merchandise for his father a wholesale jobber. P. Belden, whose brother gave a good account of himself on this year's frosh squad, is soon to represent The Belden Brick Co. in Springfield, 111. Jim Collins wrote me at Xmas stat­ing he hoped to get a political break and find himself in the state auditor's office in Mont, after Jan. 1933. An­other letter from Joe Sinkule of Yp­silanti, Mich, saying his So. American trip is wonderful and that he had a good beer on the boys when he ar­rived at Panama on Xmas. The let­ter came from Peru. Now myself— 
at present I am taking care of 160 under-privileged boys up to 20 yrs. of age. This gives me three days per week. The place, K. of C. Gym in Canton. I think I have covered the Class of '32 in these parts. 
I do hope that I can soon find a way 
to make a little money and thereby 
favor your end as well as mine. 
Wishes to the whole Gang. Robert C. Streb. 
P. S. Tell Herb Pete isn't any thin­ner either. 
Tune In, '23 

From Hacienda San Jose, lea, Peru, comes news from Andres Malatesta, Ingeniero Agronomo. Andres devoted his agriculturar talents and resources to cotton, which, obviously, is no longer what it was in the days of Uncle Tom. So Andres is turning to fruit. A few more earthquakes in Sunny California, and Andres will have only Florida and Texas to com­pete with in the good old U. S. A. 
Memorial To Lavery, '25 
With simple ceremonies befitting the unpretentious life of the late Os­car D. Lavery, the Warren Harding High School Alumni association un­veiled a tablet in memory of their former teacher Jan. 24 at the high school. 
Figures prominent in the city were present at the services, and about 200 friends and former school pupils of Mr. Lavery were in the Harding auditorium when the presentation of the bronze memorial took place. 
Patrick Lavery, father of the man in whose honor and memory the school assembly and tablet unveiling were held, was present but Mrs. Lav­ery was unable to attend. 
The Rev. Francis Morrissey of St. Charles church delivered a touching eulogy based on his personal memory of the late Oscar David Lavery. Father Morrissey was Mr. Lavery's pastor. 
"The many tributes Oscar David Lavery has received since his untime­ly death," Father Morrissey said, "are but tributes due to his character. He had a true realization of his place in the scheme of life. He knew the meaning of the word 'humility.' " 
Later in his eulogy, the speaker, de­clared, "I always shall associate Os­car Lavery with the nameless hero in the poem, 'Excelsior.' Oscar Lavery was always striving to go higher, to do greater things." 
160 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS March, 19SS 
March 1931 March 1933
In Memoriam 
"They bury Rock today. They lay away A fighter who had harntd to praise avd 
pray. Hoic much he taught young viaiihood. Who 
eun say? Sportsynanship, liardiliood Judgment, pride in straight thitilcing, and 
tJie good Great joy of comradeship and loyalty. .4/1 these; hut viore^ Much vtorc, he taught. To think with 
shavtc Of meanness and unfaith: to own a creed And to confess it bold'y. U'/iaCs Uj'c for But to say what you thitib, to do the best 
you enn As a high-hearted, brave .American? American—that was Rock! Bom of Viking stod:. 
Winning to fame In a land strange at first, but later on Made all his oicn!" 
"Gird ifcU the raiders for the battle's shock Without the guidance of the master hand— Take np the gauntlet of the mighty Rock, Who tt:atehes from Valhalla's distant land. 
"Play Jiard the game he loved, but clean and fair. 
As he would play who fiUcd his destiny: His place upon the vacant bench is there—­Hold high the fallen inaster^s memory!" 
"Deep shadows fall on Carticr field. Life Q«d fame Itavc gone aicay; Gone is the Viking from our sight Unto a fairer land of play. Thousands shout and thousands cheer The Irish march from coast to coast; The foe is strong but foe will fear The shadow of Knute Rocknc's ghost." 
:^m 

Rockne Picked As Greatest of Sports Leaders 
By a margin so convincing that it leaves no room for the slightest doubt, the late Knute Rockne stands out as the sports leader of the last decade, in the opinion of those who have most closely scanned the whirl of events over the period of 1923 to 1933, 
Of the fifty newspaper sports writers and editors who cast their votes at the request of The Associated Press, forty-one put. Rockne's name at the head of their list of those con­spicuous for their coaching. His death two years ago in an airplane accident has not dimmed the lustre of the genius of Notre Dame and his accom­plishment in intercollegiate athletics. 
(A P Feature Story) 
**Into the game he stormed his way. And he moulded the game to his need. A viillion boys are Men today That their hearts have knoicn his creed. Hit Hard! — Live Clean! — Heads Up! — Shoot Sfjuarel — 
Don't Alibi—End What You Start! 
That icus the stuff that got him there— Knute of the Fighting Heart! 
Crash of conflict where brawn meets brawn .And braicn is baffled by brain— 
That was the breath of life to him! 
That was the realm of his reign! 
Like an eagle launched from a rocky crag. 
On Victory's path he flew. 
But when guts were needed to meet defeat. He teas rock and eagle, too!" 

"If the Kings of Sport stSl gather When they've crossed the Great Divide And enjoy ncio deeds of valor As they roam the spaces wide; 
If the truly great of sportdom 
For a missing fighter pine 

There's a shout of joy that's boundless Now that Knute has crossed the line!" 
"You, «icM of Notre Dame, will sec 
-His kindly face through years to be; 

Hear his voice, his battles win— March on to victory, for—him. 
In a country's heart, tonight, Tfccrc-bitms .a sorrowing vigil light, A broken wing—a soid sped on. A falling star—the Rock is gone." 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 24TH 
• So much is compressed into that name and date that pages of elaboration can scarcely accomplish more. Monday night, April 24, 1933 —"the march is on!" 
To eveiy Local Alumni Club it means the ons night of the year above all others when officers and members plan some activity. The depression nipped in most promising bud plans at the University to centralize the Night with a national radio hook-up. That, we are confident, will come when things brighten up. 
In the meantime, for nine brilliant years the custom has been car­ried on by the Local Clubs without this undeniably great asset. And it can and will be done this year. The Notre Dame Spirit has a wave­length of its own with a receiving set that is owned by eveiy former student and a broadcasting station that works 24 houi"s eveiy day from the great Golden Dome. 
As outlined to the clubs included on the Secretary's itinerary in Ohio and the East, one of the impoitant things that can be done by the clubs this year is to see that the best prospective students from the club communities come to Noti-e Dame. This is not an emergency measure or a practice to be confined to panics. But it can mean a perm­anent progi"am for the clubs which is of particular significance at the present time when too many boys and parents are taking the lines of least resistance through lack of information and stimulation. We men­tioned above the Notre Dame broadcast of Spirit, which brings its great programs to the receiving sets in the hearts of every Notre Dame man. All we ask you to do now is to connect your loud speakers. 
Most clubs have more or less traditional forms of observing the Night. It is I'eassuring to realize this and to look back upon the nine glorious Nights that have marked a peak of loyalty seldom achieved. Financial conditions, fortunately, play no part in these sentiments. We feel, we know, at the same time we urge, that the Night will go on. 
Special efforts will be made this year to co-operate with the clubs in securing a speaker, especially one from the campus where that is feasible. If you have a choice or a definite idea, write early, please. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT, APRIL 24TH 
Revision and Survey Reveal N.D. Charges Below Average 
Erroneous Impression of High Prices at Notre Dame Belied by New Figures and Survey 
of Contemporary Costs; Other Factors Important 
The ALUMNUS publishes herewith the cost clauses which will appear in the new University Catalog. These represent some changes in method of presentation, and some economies. A freshman in Brownson or Carroll has a total bill, including laundry, of $686. But the re\'ision brought out something not generally appreciated that Notre Dame has continued to progress and extend the added facili­ties to students without proportionate advances in cost, so that today the University student pays less at Notre Dame for his school year than at any school of Notre Dame's type and rank, and less than in many other schools that do not oifer as much. There is no intent to draw unfavor­able comparisons, but to emphasize to Notre Dame alumni, students and friends that the present Notre Dame education is on' a present-cost scale. 
Another point that was brought out by the Editor on his recent trip — 
TUITION AND GENERAL FEES FOR A SEMESTER 
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
for the year 1933-34 For students liWng in: What the student receives: 
Instruction. 
Brownson or Carroll $343.00 

Board in tiie University Dining Halts. Lodging. Freshman Hall -$379.00 Laundry. (two students to a room) Medical attention, dispensary, and in­tinnary service. Dillon Hall $401.50 Use * of general and departmental li­(mostly single rooms) (additional braries. 
(dormitories) 
charge Admission to all lectures, concerts, and for private entertainments in Washington Hail bath) 
(the University theater). Admission to all athletic contests at 
Notre Dame. 
The halls mentioned 
Use of the gymnasium, athletic fields, and the University golf course. 
above are for fresh­
men only. 
Subscription to The Seholaatie. the University news weeldy. 
A copy of The Dome, the University year-book, in the second semester. 

There is a matriculation fee of $10.00, payable once only, on first entrance of the student to the University. 
Books, stationery, clothing, and other articles for sale on the campus must be paid for in cash as purchased. 
For certain courses in engineering and science there are laboratory fees and in some courses deposits are required to cover material used and breakage. 
Special tuition fees are charged for private instruction in art and music. 
For the student residing at home in South Bend or vicinity the tui­tion and general fee is $150.00, the semester, which entitles him to all the items listed above except board, lodging, and laundry. If confined to the infirmary, the day student pays $12.00 a week for lodging and meals. 
A deposit of $5.00 must be made with each application. If the appli­cant be accepted, this deposit is credited on his account; if he be rejected, the deposit is refunded. In case the applicant cancels his application or fails to come to the University, this deposit is retained by the Uni­versity to cover the clerical expense involved. 
Not e Carefully : The foreffoing statements include changes in regulations to be published in the next issue of the Bulletin of the University, now on the press, and they prevail over any contrary statements in Bulletins already published. 
most college catalog costs represent the costs of education and the mini­mum costs of living involved. Notre Dame costs represent a school year of well-rounded life, involving, e.\­cept at the student's option, no other expenditure. 
This means that when a student has paid his fees at Notre Dame, he is entitled to education; to board; to room; then, beyond all that, to every facility for religion; to medical ser\'­ice; to numerous opportunities for extra-curricular activities in music, drama, debate, athletics, etc.; to ad­mission to all of the things provided by the University to make campus life self-suiBcient, intercollegiate sports of all kinds, excellent concerts and lec­
- tures, weekly moving pictures of high quality; an excellent library covering all fields of interest including fiction; 1200 acres of park-like beauty includ­ing tivo lakes; publications covering news, humor and pictorial history of the campus; to friendships with boys from all the world; to the advice and counsel of priests and professors, many of them fellow-residents of the campus and available at all times; in short, irithout any expenditures be­yond his first costs, he can live a boy's life and a man's life as full as he wishes to make it within the confines of the campus. And the more money a boy spends off the campus, the more he is mssing of the activities that make Notre Dame distintively the Notre Dame of such vivid memories. 
Alumni can do a great deal in promoting the progress of the Uni­versity by stimulating the best enroll­ment from their respective communi­ties. Enrollment at Notre Dame to date has been satisfactory, and it is really more in a spirit of progress than panic that alumni are being urged now to co-operate. This in spite of the obvious advantages of keeping numbers of students up to capacity when all other sources of income are curtailed. What is signi­ficant to note, however, is that the program of alumni contacts aims at permanence, whether prosperity is ready for the return trip or not Such activity permits quality when quan­tity is not in question, and under present circumstances it increases the chances of both. 
The following diagram of student enrollment this year, by States, shows how lightly Notre Dame's roster skims the potential material in the several areas, and how^ much ouE:ht to be possible if the local clubs and indi­
•iadnal alumni will take an interest. 
SEOGRAPHICML OlSTfflBUTION OFSTVDENTS 
UNIVERSITY OFNOTREDflME /332 -1933 
OTHER COUNTRIES 
HLHSKIt I IRCLUMD I 
BHV/tRIA I ITALY I 
CKNHDft a MEXICO 1 
CEItT.MHBilCnl^PIIUSTINE I 
CUBH X PHILIPPINE. IS.* 
SERMKNY * SOUTH KMBR. S 

"Capt. Paul" Fogarty Growing Popular Through Radio 
Versatility of Notre Dame Journalist Winning Scores of Friends And Widespread Fame In 
Radio and Musical 

(A recent news story gave the opinion of Robt. Russow, colonel of cavalry, a member of the Culver Mil­itary Academy faculty, a man high in military life, that J. Paul Fogarty, Ph.B., in Joum., '17, is the greatest director of calisthenics in the United States. Paul's personality, the inter­view stated, added to his remarkable ability in this field, make him out­standing. He is directing calisthenics from radio station WGN, Chicago, under the title of Captain Paul. The following story was written by Tighe Woods, '33, a Journalism major.) 
When Professor John Cooney of the department of journalism starts to tell a story about some member of his "infamous" class of 1917, his students usually take their feet off the chairs and listen. They know that the Doctor has only complimented about three classes in his long career as a teacher, by honoring with the adjective "infamous." 
Doctor Cooney's latest story i'5 about Paul Fogarty of the School of Journalism, where success is meas­ured by achievements after gradua­tion, not by the number of class vale­dictorians or junior prom chairmen. 
World; Feature Story Recalls Earlier Distinction 
Paul graduated in 1917. Some of his classmates have since become execu­tives on large metropolitan dailies, one is a Paris correspondent, another a nationally known feature writer and still another a successful actor, but Paul sticks right with them. 
Fogarty went to war and immed­iately he began to gripe: He thought the American soldiers used a bayonet like a tennis racket and he told the gold-braids what he thought. They told him to go to hades and find a better method. He did but he didn't have to go to hades for it. He studied the best points in the French, English and German methods of performing a quick anatomical incision and wrote a book on it. The generals liked it so well that they put the, "Keep Off U. 
S. Property" sign on it and put Paul where he could teach a few thousand others how to use a bayonet. He did well, in fact they nicknamed him, "Blood and Guts" Fogarty. 
When he returned to the United States he found it a little hard to set­tle down. He did everything from teaching Culver cadets how to keen their feet dry to selling cement. Then came the radio and fame for Paul. He began announcing and then writ­ing sketches and songs. Some of his songs such as "Betty Coed," "Charley Cadet," Joe College," "She Loves Me Just the .Same" and "Girl I Can't Forget," have become national hits. His two most popular radio sketches are, "Big Leaguers and Bushers" and "The Devil Bird" over WGN. 
But this is all preliminary stuff. What Doctor Cooney really talks about is the fact that Paul has been chosen on William F. Fox's -Ail-American Basketball team. Every one knows that Indiana is considered the cradle of basketball and the nurs­ery of distinctive American writers. Once a year Mr. Fox, who writes features for the Indianapolis Star and who also belongs to that "infamous" class of '17, picks some of the best known men in the literary world and places them on a mythical basketball team. This year Paul Fogarty joins George Ade, Bruce Baimsfeather, Johnny Hennessey, Steve Hannagan, Jonathan Brooks, and Glen Long on the Fox selection. 
"And that • is that;" says Doctor Cooney as he leans back in his chair and glares, "But what are you dun­derheads going to do when yon get out?" 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
(The bulk of the Club news this issue comes under the special heading of the trip recently taken by the Alumni Secretary.) 
CLEVELAND 
In several instalments comes the 

following news from Cleveland: 
Your Cleveland Chronicler hastens forward to report the following items from the local society columns: 
About a week ago. Chuck Mooney, '26 beamed a smile with every cigar passed out in commemoration of the arrival of his first. Miss Carol Mooney. Mother and daughter are reported doing fine. Incidentally, Chuck is proving to be an able suc­cessor to his father in the insurance business in addition to being a mem­ber of the Ohio Bar. I understand that Carol is the feminine for Charles which is very nice. 
Chuck Kaiser has been wandering 

around with a swagger these last two 
days. It was a boy born Sunday, 
Jan. 29. The future coal baron and 
mother are reported thri\nng under 
the care of the proud father. 
Haven't the facts on Bill Butler but 

understand an heir arrived about a 
week ago. 
Feb. 24th is the day set for the 

marriage of Miss Aileen Dwyer, 
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Patrick 
Dwyer of Cleveland, to Bill Byrne. 
Our Vice-President, Chuck Rohr, is wearing a very superior smile these days. His engagement to Miss Lor­etta Kramer was announced the night of the Notre Dame Christmas Party. 
The Metzger-Brady union occurred some time ago. Doc had announced it but the date slipped my mind. John Butler is said to have been the best man (i. e. next to Doc). 
Other items of interest might be listed as follows: Dr. Anderson is extracting molars at his same old location at East 79th and Euclid. Dr. Viktoryn and Dr. Lakner are re­ported back at St. John's Hospital. As a news item, I might add that George Kozak and his brother Clar­ence are said to have issued a chal­lenge on the hand-ball courts to Vik­toryn and Tom Byrne. Tom wears a smug look as he informs me that the drubbing was not administered. Don Miller is also reported as a local con­tender for the laurels. 
As supplemental items of interest I might add that: It was a girl at the Joyces'. Which evens things between St. Marsr's and Notre Dame in Fred's household, as his first was a boy now around five years of age, if I recall 
correctly. 
Lou Stettler, '30 our ex-treasurer 

who now is operating between New ' York and Pittsburgh for the U. S. Transportation Co., was in town sev­
eral weeks ago. The young lady said 
"Yes" and the enclosed announce­
ment made it official. Congratula­
tions, Lou. 
Pat Manion was in town on Sun­day, February 12. He spoke at the local Notre Dame College for girls and it is reported that Uncle Sam had to add another clerk to handle his increased fan mail. Mayor Miller '14 introduced him and the local club representatives supplied the bald-headed row. Pat spoke on economical conditions in his own inimitable way and was such a success that he has already been booked again for ne.\t year. 
The Eeserve-N. D. basketball game was another item in making Cleveland Notre Dame conscious—and was it a honey! I nearly lost my uppers in the excitement. A record crowd and fine newspaper write-ups of a fine game were the club's rewards for their fine support. Almost forgot to add that Coach Keogan was a joint honorary speaker with Acting Chief Justice John P. Dempsey at the Monday noon luncheon at Rohr's. Judge Dempsey, by the way, was in the some outfit with Father O'Donnell overseas and recalled many of their joint exper­iences. 
Here comes the third volume of the Cleveland Chronicler. Suppose you might just as well devote your next issue to the Irish (and French) of Cleveland. 
Another activity which you prob­ably have received notices on is the 
N.D. Retreat at St. Stanislaus', the Jesuit House here in Cleveland. The week-end from March 2 to 5 has been selected as the most convenient time. Arrangements have been made for those who cannot come until the 3rd or 4th, so there is no reason to ad­\'ance the argiunent of business. Fur­thermore, the expense is little or nothing, particularly for those out of work — so here's to a successful Retreat. 
Joe (Geever) Ga\nn, Holy Name High School's cage mentor, has cinched the city Catholic basketball championship this year. This would indicate that he is a worthy successor of his predecessor, Dan Duffy, who incidentally, is now head of the Rec­reation Department of Cleveland. 
This is Holy Name's second consecu­tive championship and also the last leg on the N. D. Trophy which was put up by the Campus Club when Chuck Mooney was president. Ar­rangements have already been made for the N. D. alumni of Cleveland to furnish a new trophy. 
"Winchell" Haas reports that it was a girl at Bill Butler's domicile. The date was Jan. 22. Mother and child are reported doing nicely. Mrs. Butler, incidentally, hails from Chil­licothe, Ohio. 
We regret to announce the death of Al Nano\'ic's father. Al is working here in Cleveland for the New Jersey Zinc Sales and drops in once in a blue moon. 
Also regret to announce the death of Jim Uprichard's mother. Jim is a member of the senior class and an active member of the Campus club. Please ask Fr. O'Hara to remember them in his prayers. 
Jim Powers left a couple of weeks ago for Mexico on business. John Gallagher is still in the legal depart­ment for the Morris Plan bank here in Cleveland. Joe Daley is also a very active member of the Ohio Bar but is he scarce at these meetings. Martin Rini, another prominent bar­rister, has considerable difficulty matching his social and business ap­pointments. 
Clayton G. Leroux. 
CINCINNATI 

Bob Kuerze, one of our staunch members, left Cincinnati last Thurs­day for the Sunny Climes of Florida. Bob expects to be gone for the great­er part of the winter. 
Bill Castellini, Class of '22, has just sent the Secretarj' a notice of a new business connection—that of Public Relation Counselor. Bill can handle the job all right. 
Joe Kinneary, recently with An­heuser-Busch, Inc., has entered the Cincinnati University Law School. His brother, William, Don Dixon and Jack Heilker are also enrolled at the University of Cincinnati, studying law. 
Jim Brady, of the Class of '29, was in town for a week during the holi­days. It is rumored that Jim expects to come to Cincinnati for the future 
•Mrs. Brady. We ask Jim's indulgence if we are betraying any secrets. . We were honored recently with a visit from Vic Hart, also of the Class of '29. We are not sure whether Vic came for an interview with Donie Bush, Cincinnati's new baseball man­ager, or mebby he is looking over some of Cincinnati's eligible debu­tantes. 
Bob Hughes, our president, is re­sponsible for tlie statement that busi­ness is on the pick-up. Bob, as you know, is with the Alfred Hill Brok­erage Co. 
We were all very happy to have Eddie McHugh back with us again. Ed attended the dinner last Friday evening. There is nothing wrong with Ed's power of speech. Jim Armstrong will vouch for that. 
The Cincinnati Notre Dame club meets the first Tuesday of each month at the Fenwick club for dinner at 
6:00 p. m. We cordially invite any Notre Dame men who might be in our city on that date. Call the secretary. Cherry 7745. 
Leo Dubois just returned from a trip East, visiting Washington, Roch­ester, New York, and Syracuse. Duby was on a real-estate mission. 
The club extends its deepest sym­pathy to Mr. John Fanger of '26, who recently suffered the loss of his father. 
W. D. "Hogan" Jlorrissey. 
D.A.LLAS 

The Notre Dame Club of Dallas met at the Adolphus hotel on Tues­day evening, Feb. 21, for the first of a series of bi-monthly meetings to continue throughout the year. The club consists of some 20 graduates and former students of the Univer­sity. Plans are being made to ar­range a joint meeting of all Texas Notre Dame clubs at St. Edward's University, Austin, sometime in June. .\t the present time there are clubs in San Antonio, Houston, Lubbock and Dallas. 
Ofiicers of the Dallas club are James P. Swift, president; D. Pat Buell, vice-president; Frank A. llc-Cullough, secretary-treasurer. 
Rev. T. P. Coupal, CM., formerly of DePaul University, gave the club a very interesting and instructive talk on the good a Notre Dame club could do. He was made an honorary member of the club. Jim Swift pre­sided at the meeting, particularly the dining part of it. The club is work­ing on ways of contacting prospective Notre Dame students. 
NEW JERSEY 

Dear Jim: 
I had planned to drop around and see you at the Notre Dame dance in Newark but business out of town cut in on my plans though I had already lent support to the affair by writing the publicity. The information I have as to those who were on hand — I mean the N. D.'ers—included the fol­lowing, always including the Secre­tary Jim Armstrong himself who, I understand, made a flying trip from Philadelphia, to attend. 
President Russell Riley, who has been doing a good job of president­ing; Perennial Secretary Joe Nulty; Frank Masterson (and this was a real event to attract Frank); Carlton 
(Pat) Reilly, Paul (Bucky) O'Con­nor, who left his medical studies at Yale; Bob Phelan that good old full­back who is the club's vice president; Dr. Jerry Hayes, who I 'understand is about to spend a vacation-study period in Europe; Watts Eicher and Bernie Conroy, who came over from New York; Johnny Colrick, Tommy Farrell, Jack Wingerter, Pat Troy, Charles Geiger, Bob Huetz, who was chairman of the dance; Joe Drinane; down from Morristown came Gerald 
(Bus) Griffin who is making an ex­cellent job of coaching two of New Jersejr's Catholic High school basket­ball teams, and Joe Parmagenti; Tom Hughes, John McLaughlin, Henry Hinsenkamp and. lest I forget (I don't dare), the three Purcells—Jake, Tom (Shiv), and Dick. 
There were probably other New Jersey club members present but I wasn't there and I'm rendering only a second hand report so the}''Il have to forgive me. 
In the meantime, unlike a good reporter, I forgot to mention the af­fair was held in the main ballroom of the Robert Treat hotel in Newark on the night of Feb. 21 and it was so successful that there will probably be another after Easter. 
I've promised Red Riley that I ^\^ll faithfully send letters on to the ALTJJINUS in order that our Jersey bunch will occupy the niche they de­serve. 
In the meantime I'll list for you some of the high-lights of the next few months. Here y'are: 
March 31—1 a. m.—Mass for Knute 
K. Rockne, St. Patrick's Cathedral, Newark. 
April 24—^Universal Notre Dame Night, Newark. Jimmy Crowley to be main guest (we hope) with a lot of other celebrities possibly including a cabinet member. 
The club is donating a three-year trophy to the first Catholic High Schools Basketball Championship to be contested in March. Trophy to be known as Rupe Mills-Notre Dame Club Cup. 
P. S.—Prez. Riley plans to get full data on what the boys are doing. So here's a note to the effect that Jim Quinn and Joe Byrne just got back from a tropical cruise and that Joe Nulty, who is doing probation work in Union County is about to call out his track candidates for St Mary's High school, Elizabeth where he is doing "extra curricular" work. 
Art J. Lea Mond. 

NEW YORK Dear Jim: 
At our meeting on Jan. 31, we were very fortunate to have Father Charles O'Donnell as our guest speaker. We did not know that he was to be ^vith us until the day before the meeting, but nevertheless, there was a large number present to welcome him. 
Father O'Donnell said that there were a lot of old faces missing at the meeting, but was pleased to see so many younger members present. He asked that the club reach out and get the younger members for Notre Dame's sake as Notre Dame men must stick together. 
After hearing a letter read in which our chaplain. Father John MacNamara, expressed 'the opinion that the National Alumni association was up against it and might be forced to cease operations. Father O'Donnell assured us that conditions were not quite as bad as Father Mac­Namara stated and there was not much chance of the association 'go­ing on the rocks." 
The Comptroller of the University was making an exhaustive study of the iVlumni Association w^ith the help of Jim Armstrong and Father O'Don­nell expected a favorable report in a short time. 
In regard to the athletic situation at Notre Dame, we were told that there had been little complaint from the Notre Dame Alumni. No Notre Dame man has said or done anything to embarass the University in the handling of the situation. Father O'Donnell said that the trouble comes from the large body of "Alumni with­out portfolio." This group is not easily satisfied and are unlike Notre Dame men who can take it "on the chin" and wait for next year. 
He further stated that Notre Dame 
had a following that was neither rac­
ial, sectional, or social but was a 
loyal following and larger than any 
group supporting any other college or 
university in the country. 
In conclusion Father O'Donnell 
stated that any school would be proud 
of such a following and that Notre 
Dame is especially proud of it and 
hopes to be able to live up to it. 
The Board of Governors elected the following officers for the present year: John E. Kenney, president; William A. Walsh, vice-president; Ed­ward A. Fallon, treasurer; J. Norbert Gelson, jr., secretary. 
A survey was sent out recently to find out how many were interested in holding a luncheon every week. Due to the large number that responded favorably, it was decided to hold these luncheons on Tuesday in The Hidden Inn, 21 Ann Street, New York City. 
We had a very good attendance last Tuesday, being much larger than the survey had shown. Jimmy Crowley was with us and brought along his new assistants, Judge Carberry and Frank Leahy. 
On the night of Feb. 16 we had a visit from the traveling Alumni sec­retary, Jim Armstrong. He told us of the work he had been doing on the trip and of the success that he had had. New York was more or less of a "refueling stop" for him as the metropolitan area had too many schools for him to cover. 

An informal discussion was then held and several members asked Jim for information that would help them get new students for Notre Dame. 
The week-end of April 28 has been set for our Annual Retreat at the Loyola House of Eetreats, Morris­town, New Jersey. William A Daunt has volunteered to act as promoter this year and he is planning to have a large attendance at the retreat. 
The National Catholic Alumni Fed­eration is starting a series of confer­ences and discussions on March 2. Each college that belongs to the Fed­eration is to be responsible for a con­ference and discussion. Notre Dame has been assigned April 6th and Ed­win A. Berkery has been appointed chairman for the occasion. 
At the last meeting of the Board of Governors they elected Eddie Dowl­ing, famous actor and now a member of the Democratic National Commit, tee, an honorary member of the club. Mr. Dowling has a son attending the University at the present time. 
Doc Gelson. 
PEORIA 

A brief note brings new officers of the Notre Dame club of Peoria. John Noppenberger, president; Al Gury, ^ice-president, and Leo Cavanaugh, secretary. The club was wsited by Prof. Louis Buckley on a trin to the schools of that section of Illinois. 
RHODE ISLAND 

The Notre Dame Club of Rhode Is­land was formed Feb. 10, with a nuc­leus of about 20 members at a meet­ing at the Narragansett hotel. 
Charles A. Grimes, '20, of Grants Mills, was elected president. 
Other officers are: Vice-president, John J. Rourke of Providence; secre­tary, Cyril A. Costello of Providence; treasurer, Graham J. Norton of Paw­tucket, and chapiain. Rev. Henry Norman of Providence. Members of the Board of Ramblers are, Eugene 
J. Moreau of Pawtucket; John J. Brown of Central Falls; J. Clement Grimes of Providence, and Leo R. McAIoon. 
John J. Brown, a graduate in archi­tecture in 1931 has been unanimously selected for the Beaux Arts award in a competition among American uni­versities, it was announced. 
March 2, at the Narragansett ho­
tel, the first monthly dinner-meeting of the club was held with Dr. Fred­eric J. Famell, director of Rhode Is­land Welfare Institutions and inter­nationally known neuro-psychiatrist, as the guest speaker. Dr. Famell spoke on the interesting Notre Dame topic, "Is Boyology The Bunk?" Need­less to say. Dr. Famell, through his work, expressed a deep appreciation of both the Boy Guidance work at the University, instituted here by the Knights of Columbus Supreme Coun­cil, and the Probation Training course instituted by the University last year. A fine attendance indicated apprecia­tion of the possibilities of the new organization and the co-operation of Dr. Famell with the ambitious pro­gram of the new officers. 

Botanical Libraries Among N.D.'s Great Collections 
(From "The SrholasUc") 
It seems curious that we live so many years on this campus, intim­ately connected with the school, and even occasionally, going over to the library for a reference book, and yet never learn of the numerous things that make our campus famous. Who knows of the priceless array of cere­monial robes hung in the wardrobes of Sacred Heart Church? Who, unless he has happened to open the cat­alogue on the wrong page, knows that Henry Clay was instrumental in ob­taining a government commission for a post office at Notre Dame? Or, for instance, take the Greene-Nieuwland Botanical Library and Collection. 
If you chance to turn to the left instead of the right in walking through the University Art Gallery, you will find yourself in a room whose walls are shelves of old books, and whose furniture consists almost entirely of closed cases. Going on­ward, you will discover four rooms similarly modeled. Not interesting at a cursory glance, but it deserves more than that. 
Back in 1914 Edward Lee Greene, connected with the U. S. Department of Agriculture, a member of the Cal­ifornia Academy of Science, and of the National Geographical Society, author of many a book and holder of the degrees of Ph.D. and LL.D., be­came a member of the Faculty of Notre Dame. Unfortunately, he was taken ill shortly thereafter and died in 1915. But in his year's residence at the University, he conceiyed a fondness for the school, that was manifested later in his will. Therein, he deeded to the university his collec­tion of botanical books and specimens which since 1904 had been deposited in the U. S. National Museum. It consisted of 4,000 volumes and over 100,000 specimens, and was so com­plete in its field as to make almost superfluous the desire that it should never be augmented. 
Most interesting to a novice were numerous old volumes, bound in pig­skin, WTitten in Latin in a most pe­culiar type, and containing hand painted illustrations, set into the binding in strange fashion. More noticeable to a collector were several sets of bound magazines and books, which, as far as is known, are the only ones in existence. These are the only surviving copies of an edition printed in San Francisco and de­stroyed by the city fire. 
In connection with this group. Rev­erend Father J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C. has more recently presented his col­lection of botanical books and speci­mens. Among the books are several by Linnaeus, printed previous to 1760, and a copy of Leeuwenhocck's Aimtomia Eenim, printed in 1687. There are 3,000 volumes in this col­lection at the present time, and it is constantly being added to. The ex­changes of the Midlaml Naturalist are incorporated into these shelves, providing an up-to-date and universal adjunct to the other botanical liter­ature. 
Dr. T. Just, Ph.D., is curate of both collections, and at the present time is engaged in revising and filing the Nieuwland collection. He is enthus­iastic in talking about it, and we may well believe him when he says it is one of the most valuable and fascin­ating divisions of the Notre Dame Libraries. 
DEATHS 

MICHAEL FITZPATRICK, oldest alumnus, a Commercial graduate of 1861, unfortunately not located until recently by us, died Feb. 22, on his estate near Lockport, 111. He was SS years old and was prominent in his community for his philanthropy, which included recently a gift of land on which was erected the Holy Name Technical School, dedicated last sum­mer by Cardinal Mundelein and Bis­hop Sheil of Chicago. Mr. Fitzpat­rick was unmarried. 
Conversing before his death with Francis Dunn, Joliet, Mr. Fitzpatrick described his days at Notre Dame when the boys played football by carrying goal posts to a vacant field near the University and engaging in the sport out of sight from the authorities, returning with numerous bruises and black eyes to discourage the introduction of the game until some 25 years later. He also told of the punishment of students, consist­ing for numerous offenses of kneeling or sitting at the foot of the table where the priests were eating. 
lieft an estate by his parents, Mr. Fitzpatrick increased his holdings and retired to engaage in local philanth­ropy with his two sisters, one of whom. Miss Frances Fitzpatrick, sur­vives him. The sisters were gradua­ted from St. Mary's. 
REV. JOHN S. SCHOPP, A. B., '94, Cincinnati, 0., is dead according to mail returned from his former address there. No other details were available at the time of going to press. 
REV. PATRICK McVEIGH, Ph.D., '31, associated with Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C. S. C, '99, during Father Nieuwiand's experiments re­sulting in the discovery of synthetic rubber, died Feb. 21 at Carroll Coll­ege, Helena, where he was head of the department of science. He was also the first graduate of that institution when it was known as Mt. St. Charles. Father McVeigh was 40 years of age and popular'both at Carroll and at Notre Dame during his years here be­fore receiving his doctorate. 
Slipping off the treacherous ice hummocks, 50 feet out in Lake Mich­igan off Twenty-third street, Racine, Wis., Feb. 9, THEODORE A., SCHOLZEN, '32, son of Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. Scholzen, 1832 Villa street, lost his life by drowning despite the heroic efforts of two younger com­panions to rescue him. With Robert Walsh, 18, of 1844 Villa street, and Richard Wilson, 15, of 1846 Villa 
^THE ALUMNA 
street, Theodore was walking along 
the edge of the ice mounds off shore. 
At that point there are mounds of 
ice from eight to ten feet high with 
a shelving of flat ice at their base. 
The boys were crawling along on top 
of these uneven hummocks when The­
odore lost his footing and fell into 
the icy water. Unmindful of their 
own safety his two comrades seized 
the limb of a tree which they found 
upon the ice and slid down the mound 
to the wet and slippery shelving. 
Theodore, who was a good swim­
mer, managed to seize the end of this 
branch, but the boys could not pull 
him to safety. One of them rushed 
to the shore and up the 45-foot bank 
where he obtained a short section of 
rope. It was also thrown out to the 
youth, but by that time he was too 
weak to grasp it and sank beneath 
the water, which was only about five 
feet deep at that point. 
This was shortly before 4:11 after 
he had been keeping his head above 
water for nearly half an hour. Walsh 
and Wilson then ran up the bank to 
the nearest place where there was a 
telephone and called the police. Desk 
Sergt. Joseph Konicek sent Detectives 
Kowalsky and Snook and Officers 
Scholz and Barra out to the scene 
with the police ambulance. He also 
summoned the U. S. coast guards and 
the fire department rescue squad. 
The ambulance was stalled in a 
snow drift at Lakeside but the car 
carrying the tivo detectives reached 
the scene. The coast guards, under 
Captain Olander and the fire depart­
ment rescue crew, also arrived. Grap­
pling hooks were used by the coast 
guards in locating the body which 
was brought to the surface and placed 
in an old rowboat which was found 
nearby. 
Ted was buried in Holy Cross cem­
etery, Racine, Feb. 13. 
• The ALUMNUS extends the sym­pathy of the Association in the deaths of CLIFFORD COLLINS, Comptroll­er of the University until ill health forced him to go to Tucson, Arizona, where he died Feb. 10; the father of MAURICE CARROLL, '19; the wife of J. J. CANTY, '29; the father of JULIUS GILBERTSON, '29; the father of WILLIAM J. JONES, '32; the mother of DR. THOMAS LEA­HY, '26 and WILLIAM LEAHY, '31; the father of JOHN and PETER BEIRNE, '28, and ROGER BEIRNE. '33; the father of. REV. ROBERT SHEEHAN, C.S.C, '20, and TOM SHEEHAN, '24. 
The ALUMNUS extends its sym­pathies to LOU WILLIAMS, '32, whose father died during the Christ­mas holidays. 
BIRTHS 

PROF, and MRS. JOSEPH CASA­SANTA, '23, are parents of a daugh­ter, Maria, bom February 11. This gives the Old Maestro something to blow his trumpet about, especially since Little Joe's baby sister weighed nine pounds and three ounces for the first toast. 
'25 is never left out. This time it is none other than a Jones,—and the Jones, like '25, are seldom absent in progressive things. The particular JONES in this case is J. WILLARD, of the Dixon, 111., Jones, who wired UNCLE HERB, '27, that an eight-pound addition to the Dixon census arrived at 12:50 inauguration day. The happy coincidence of the future President Jones' birthday has been seriously impaired by the lame duck bill, which of course was not yet in existence when the non-canceUable order for the latest Jones was placed. 
PROF. WILLIAM ROEMER, who dignifies the '27 roster with a Ph. D,, has also added to the prestige of that Class with the arrival of the fiBh Roemer boy, on Feb. 19. Bill ha3 a young heaven for boys over on the edge of the campus and the newcomer is going to find the sailing pretty smooth, if he has his dad's Scholastic philosophy. 
JAMES K. QUALLEY shares the name and the family income now with JAMES K. QUALLEY Jr., as well as Mrs. Qualley. Jim Jr. arrived Feb. 15, Jim Sr. still handles the La Salle Hotel problems in South Bend. 
MR. AND MRS. JACK FLYNN, '27, are enjoying Frederick Lawrence Flynn, since Feb, 7. Jack is assistant District attorney in New York. 
Two '28 arrivals weren't on the local train board until this calling: the JOSEPH HORANS added John Thomas on December 8 and the ART GLEASONS did the right thing by the law of averages with Mary Judith on Nov. 27. 
MR. AND MRS. SPALDING CLEMENTS have added another Clements, Mary Spalding, to the illustrious family roster down in Owensboro, Ky., Feb. 24 was the date. 
PROF. RUFUS RAUCH of the English faculty, and Mrs. Ranch, are parents of a son, bom Feb, 19. 
MARRIAGES 

Mr. and Mrs, George M. Sherk, Chicago, announce the marriage of their daughter, Gertrude, to ALBERT CARROLL, '22, Saturday, Feb. 11, Al and Mrs. Carroll are at home at 1209 Sherwin Ave., Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Collins Hardie have announced the marriage of their daughter, Elizabeth Marjorie, to RICHARD C.A.RVEL MILLER, '24, in St. Joseph's Cathedral, Hartford, Conn., on Tuesday, Feb. 14. 

Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Jay Weinreich have announced the marriage of their daughter, Marie Julia, to CUTHBERT JOSEPH SCOTT, e.x-'24, in Los An­geles, Calif., Feb. 14. The groom is a son of JOSEPH SCOTT, LL. D., '15, and brother of REVEREND GEORGE SCOTT and AL SCOTT. 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Hugh Kelly announce the marriage of their daughter, Lucy, to HUGH FR.A.NCIS McCAFFERY, '27, Heutenant in the 
U. S. Air Corps, Sat., Feb. IS. A newspaper clipping recently showed Hughie and his bride on the sands of Bermuda. 
Miss Ida Patricia Schiffgen and BURTON TOEPP, '2S, were married in the hurch of St. Mary Magdalen, Toledo, Ohio., Saturday, Feb. 11th. FRANCIS JONES was Burt's atten­dant. Mr. and Mrs. Toepp will reside in Washington, where Burt has just been transferred. Mrs. Toepp is a graduate of Ursuline College, Toledo. 
JOSEPH SMIETANKA, '29, who is employed in the City Hall, Chicago, concluded a rather unusual phase of work in that august edifice on Feb. 2S, when he was married to Miss Marie Fox, one of the staff in the late Mayor Cermak's office. 
Miss Kathleen Conlon, Washington, 

D. C, and MURRAY HICIvEY LEY, '30, former editor of the Scholastic, were married in Washington, D. C, Feb. 11. Murray is managing the interests of his uncles, proprietors of the Hickey Bros. Cigar Stores, in the capital area. Mr. and Mrs. MURR.A.Y RUSSELL, ex-'32, were attendants. Mrs. Russell is a sister of Mrs. Ley. 
A late but welcome announcement comes of the marriage of Miss Kath­ryn Bland and JAMES M. CURRY, '29, in the Log Chapel, Dec. 27. Jim and Mrs. Curry are at home at 45 Prospect Place, New York City. The bride is the daughter of Mr. Edward Bland, Chicago. 
Miss Alice Louise Bonham, Chicago, and WILLIAM JOHNSON, '29, Utica, New York, were married at Notre Dame, March 4. CHARLES McDER-MOTT, Colon, Neb., was best man. WALTER MULFLUR was among the guests. 
Miss Mary Catherine Dillon, South Bend, and AUGUST LAWRENCE BONDI, '30, Dixon, III., were married Feb. 27 in St. Patrick's Church South Bend. JOHN CAHILL, '33, Di.xon, was best man. Gus and Mrs. Bondi are at home in the Washington-Colfax apartments, South Bend. 
Miss Madeline Elaine Corrigan and GEORGE WINICLER, JR., '30, were married on Feb. 16 in St. Marj- Star of the Sea Church, Far Rockaway, New York. 
Miss Marie Beach, Cleveland, Ohio, and LJVMBERT REINHART, '31, were married in' Cleveland, Feb. 25. They will reside in Washington, D. C. 
JOSEPH BITTORF, e.\-'32, and Miss Delaney, were married in Wichi­ta Falls, Texas, Feb. 15, with TEX SIMMONS, '32, as best man. 
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh A. Larkin of Chicago have announced the engage­ment of their daughter, Lucille, to THOMAS J. PURCELL, '30. No date was given for the wedding. Tom is also a graduate of Kent College of Law. 
PERSONALS 
REUNION IN INDIANA 

I know, when this is written, that your bank is closed and you don't know whether you can leave home in June or whether you'll have a home in June for that matter. But let me tell you something. The banks of the St. Joe are just as attractive and open as they were when Father Sorin arrived. And June 2, 3, and 4 you'll have a home. And whether you liked your rhubarb and your corn flakes and your stew^ or not, Notre Dame was home, wasn't it? And it's the same when you come back, except for what is alleged to be an upward trend in the food. I still won't commit my­self. I ate in the old refectorj"- and those square pies the Sisters made were not the worst pies I've had, when I had pie. And steak for break­fast brings watery reminiscences, es­pecially when steak now carries a blue ribbon at any meal. As Father Carroll says in his Irish stories, "Ah, dear—." 
The gist of this is attend your Re­unions. It's a spiritual and mental renaissance in the most pleasant physical surroundings. If you can find the transportation, that's about all you have to worry over. 
There are Reunion Classes this year— 
1928, which promises to break a]] records for numbers, distance trav­elled, program, pep, and what'll they have? 
1926, the freshman; 1925, the soph­omores; 1924, the jimiors and what a year they had then; with 1923 the seniors, and was that a class of lads —ask the woman who owns one! This 
is the youthful Dix group, in spite of 
the fact that some of these '23 and 
'24 boys are not holding that school­
boy compIe.xion like '25 and '26. But 
then, the kind of life, etc. We'll hash 
that over when we get together. '25 
and '26 will probably age quickly 
during the week-end. 
1908 obser\'es its 25th anniversary which means in its case 25 years of activity and close contact with the school and each other. Secretary Frank Cull has ideas that do him justice as an individual and that re­flect credit on the entire class and the period of Notre Dame history it represents. 
The Dix group happens to coincide directly ^rith the 25-year group, with 1907 as the freshmen; 1906 the soph­omores; 1905 the juniors and 1904 the seniors. And a lot of history is contained within those borders. 
The third Dix group brings back 1888 as freshmen (doesn't the Rev­erend Provincial face a difficult week­end as a freshman?); 1887 as soph­omores; 1886 as juniors and 1885 as seniors. 
This year, representing a fortunate progression, the Class of 1883 offers a Golden Jubilee to a number of fine men whose names have been constant­ly associated with achievement and with Notre Dame. It is sincerely hoped that conditions will permit this honored group, with .50 years of alumni life behind it, to attend in full strength, this Jubilee Reunion. 
Now, those are special Reunions. As always, Notre Dame at Com­mencement time issues a Reunion call to all Notre Dame men. 
This, too, has a particular signifi­cance this year. In 1908, a nucleus of alumni, representing at that time a very substantial number and repre­senting all parts of the country and all classes, responded to the invita­tion of Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90, then President of the University, and reorganized the Alumni Associa­tion. Since that date it has been an actively functioning, effective organ­ization. 
This year of 1933, therefore, can logically be called the Silver Jubilee of the order of things as they are, even though it marks the 64th actual anniversary of the founding of an alumni association at Notre Dame. 
It is pleasing that many of the men in that famous meeting of 1908 are still active. The 1933 Commence­ment and Reunions should have a special significance for them. 
In other words, you can't afford to miss it! 
1900 

Word comes that JOSE HERNAN­DEZ is a professor of English in the University of Santo Tomas in Manila. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
1917 

Seumus MacManus, LL.D., '17, Tantalaan, County Donegal, Ireland, will soon begin publication of a mag­azine, the name of which has not yet been announced. Dr. MacManus has written many books—fiction, history, drama and poetry—but this will be his first editorial work. 
1924 

CLIFF NOONAN stopped by the office while I was "junketing" but I had the pleasure of repaying his greetings at the Chicago Club lunch­eon March 10. 
JIM HAYES was on my list for a going over in New York but he didn't come to meeting and I collapsed on the stairs of the Empire State build­ing before I reached his office. 
1925 

Missed GEORGE BISCHOFF also by being away, but saw quite a few of the '25 mates on the trip as chron­icled in the saga of said circuit. 
Also missed GEORGE LUDWIG who was on the campus with his brother-in-law, Fritz Gast, who is go­ing to avoid Ludwig's footsteps on the campus in the Fall; 
1926 

Enjoyed a nice letter from ROB­ERT Q. MURPHY, whose address is 2113 Cambridge Ave., Albuquerque, New Mex., Bob says in part: "I would be happy to hear from such of my old acquaintances as care to write, particularly such old drunkards as DAN SHIFFER, JOE SHEA, and sundry "cup companions." And it would do my heart good to hear from or about one HENRY GERARD "JIM" SUTTER, '25, whose fall from grace shall ever be one of my most hilarious memories — swell sense of humor, es? But it n-as funny." 
1928 

Your Class Secretary was in Rock Island, Illinois long enough to see two of our barrister classmate.'?. HAYES MURPHY and "BUTCH" HERBERT. They are both practicing law there. They promise to be pres­ent on June 4th for the reunion. Peoria seemed more like the old "stamping grounds" with JOE LANGTON there again. Joe is in the Peoria office of Phillips 66 Oil Co. Joe will be back in June also. 
GEORGE BYRNE writes from 295 St. John Place, Brooklyn, New York, that he saw a number of the '28 men at the Notre Dame Club of New York meeting. LARRY CULLINEY, BER­NARD GARBER, JIM HARTLEY and OLLIE SCHELL were all there. ED BRENNAN, AL DUFFY, and 
AL TAYLOR are still in the mid­town section of the Isle of Manhattan workin g feverishly according to George. LORD JIM CONMEY con­tinues his Wal l Street • tactics. FRANKLYN DOAN is now safely and happily married and is living in Radburn, New Jersey. JOHN STEW­ART is in Rochester with the Journal American and at the same time try­ing to keep up the proud father tra­dition with John Daniel, Jr. DON CORBETT, barrister has forsaken Main St., Rochester for Main St., Brock-port. JOE GERAGHTY is still trying to win Exchange St., Roches­ter in the same way LORD JIM CON­MEY won Wall Street. GEORGE CONNORS, FRANK GAGLIARDI and CHARLIE SHEL.A.NSKEY are all working in New York. George concludes with a promise that he will be with us in June. Bring the New York gang along when you come, George. 
When the thermometer started on its downward journey last month you probably wondered how TOM JLA.­HON of Duluth and Superior fame was making out. The following is a quotation from his letter. "I have re­ceived the February issue of the ALU.MNUS and now, having read it on this cold, blizzardy day, I am suffer­ing from a nostalgic tug at my heart strings. Everything in it seemed to evoke pleasant memories. At sight of HOWIE PHALIN'S name my mind conjured up pictures of that irrepres­sible curly-head on the many occa­sions which threw him and me to­gether. ART DENCHFIELD in Uru­guay. What pleasant memories I have of my all too brief stay in Mon­tevideo! As if I hadn't suffered enough Howie mentioned Alaska. I had planned a trip there last summer but a financial cataclysm into which I was unceremoniously plunged pre­cluded all possibilities of such a trip. If something turns up bet\veen now 
and June you may be sure that if it is humanly possible this unworthy son of the Glorious Lady will be back for the reunion." 
JOHN MAHONEY has joined the group of '28 men here in South Bend. John is with the Indiana Bell Tele­phone Co. .John has joined the ranks of proud fathers. 
I promise to have all the plans for our reunion ready to present to you in the ne.\t issue of the ALU.MXUS. I am calling a meeting of the '28 men in this locality to aid me, which will include BILL ARinN, CHARLIE DEGROOTE, FRANK DONOVAN, ANDY BOYLE, ANDY MUL­REANY. BOB GRANT. WILLARD WAGNER, RUS SEARER, GEORGE JOHN MAHONEY, AL PERSYN, RONALD RICH and IKE VOED­ISCH. How about a note letting us know that we can expect you? 
1929 

GEORGE BEAMER has fallen heir to a most satisfactory honor in the city judgeship in South Bend, vacated by Al Hosinski, '16, who moves to the federal marshal's post for this area. 
1930 

Dear Jim: 
No doubt this will find you back home safe again. We all enjoyed seeing you and hope you liked your trip. 
I have a few things here that may help the ne.\t issue of the ALUMNUS. 
Miss Katherine Bertha Marwitz, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John D. Marwitz, Lakewood, Ohio, a graduate of St. Mary's in 1930, is to marry HARRY STETTLER of Aliquippa, Pa., on April 20th. They are to live in Pittsburgh where Harry is mana­ger of the Pittsburgh office of the 
U. S. Transportation Company. 
GEORGE WINKLER and Miss Madeline Corrigan both of Far Rock­away, New York, were married on February 16th and have sailed for Bermuda on their honeymoon. ROB­ERT MULHALL was best man and JOE LENIHAN and JOE NUGENT were ushers. 
Some of the boys who were around for a stag party for George at the University Club were: HENRY FREY, FRANK WALKER. JOE LENIHAN. WARREN FOGEL, BOB MULHALL, JOHN NANOVIC, BILL O'BRIEN, LARRY CRONIN, FRANIC DUNN, JOE NUGENT. OLUE SCHELL and ED ELLSWORTH. 
JERRY CONWAY and BENJA­MIN MIKES of '32 are living at 709 Park Avenue and attending New York University. 
CLAY ADAMS is working in a brokerage house downtown, and JOE DUNN, also '32, has a job with an accounting firm. 
TONY FRAINO is a very busy teacher in one of the New York high schools. 
CARL GRUNING managed to get out of Brooklyn long enough to at­tend the Club luncheon last week. 
OLLIE SCHELL and LARRY CRONIN are holding positions with the New York Title Mortgage Co. 
JOHN COLRICK is now in the con­struction business as President of the Cayram Construction Co. of Soutii Orange, New Jersey. 
"DUTCH" HINSENKAMP now lives at Plainfield, New Jersey with his wife and son. Dutch is working for the Johns iManville Co. and looks great. 
Bemie. 

Fifteen Clubs On A Secretary's Chest, Or, My Trip 
(Continued from Pajrc 150) 
the genial Dr. William A. ScuUen, 
LL.D. '27. To an assembly of the boys of the Holy Name school the cause of education, Catholic education and ultimately Notre Dame education was presented after a most generous and hospitable introduction by Dr. ScuUen himself. We had the pleasure of meeting the fine staff of assistants who are with Dr. ScuUen in his great work in his parish and school. 
Lunch at the famous Fischer-Rohr restaurant brought together, besides Tom, Chuck Eohr and myself, the efficient and appreciated Secretary of the Club, Clayt Leroux and his valued companion in Club activities "Win­chell" Haas, mentioned in the regular Cleveland Club report in this issue. 
In the afternoon Tom and I visited John P. Murphy, Governor of the Third District. He was much inter­ested in the trip and its results to date and promised the co-operation of the Clubs in his District. Several ideas of consequence which will be followed up in detail were forthcom­ing from Governor Murphy's experi­enced, loyal and able mind. 
Gene Kane was found in the Bulk­ley Building Garage, one of the finest buildings of its Mnd, containing a number of construction features de­signed by Gene himself. Parking Tom's car here to be thawed out, we went up after a long visit with Gene and found Frank Cull ready as always to give an interesting few minutes to Notre Dame. The talk with Frank was particularly inspiring because he had in mind one of those ideas that prove Notre Dame to be a forming and a lasting influence in the life of an alumnus far beyond the particular channel of business or profession. More of that elsewhere, also. 
Driving over to the City Hall, we just had a chance to say "Hello" to a busy and harrassed but always cordial Ray Miller on the City Hall steps. 
In spite of the thawing out at Gene Kane's Tom's car froze up again on the way back to the Lake Shore where we had a fine visit with Fred Joyce, cleaned up and loaded in the baggage before repairing to Rohr's again for a combination dinner and Club meeting in the famous "Sub­way." Fifty-five loyal and hardy alumni, from Henry Newmark, '78, through to the '32 men, braved below zero temperature for the meeting. To hear the Club's plans and see the evi­dence of sincerity and efficiency with­out any decrease in the fun of it all was most inspiring and I probably got a lot more from my visit than the au b did. A talk that I intended to be brief carried the general informa­tion and a round table followed. 
Finally, Fritz Slackford, Dan Duffy and Tom Byrne crowded with me into Fritz's coupe, and it was a crowd even in that coupe, and we went down to the station where I caught a sleeper for Buffalo after six very pleasant, interesting, and encouraging stops in Ohio. 
Buffalo, Feb. 10-11 — Friday morn­ing we opened the Executive Commit­tee meeting of the American Alumni Council which was to take the better part of the two days. But Friday noon, Paul Hoeffler, classmate,—and how welcome and how faithful they were on the trip those '25 fellows,— said he had arranged for me to speak at St. Joseph's through Bro. Alban, the superior, who was. unfortunately away. A very enjoyable period was held with the boys there followed by an hour's discussion, when I had to rush back with my information on the Council Convention for the Ex. Com. The Board meeting ended Saturday afternoon and Saturday night a dozen members of the Buffalo Club met at the Stuyvesant hotel where Jay L. "BifTy" I.€e resides and enjoyed a din­ner meeting. A few films of the cam­pus had been secured for the occasion and served to illustrate and liven up the discussion of Notre Dame activi­ties. 
Sunday morning I left for 
Rochester, Feb. 12-13 —President Tom Ashe met me at the station and after signing up at the hotel, we went to church. Sunday dinner following was enjoyed at the Ashe home with Tom, Jerry, '22, Secretary of that il­lustrious Class and Governor of Dis­trict Eight, another brother, Joe, and Mr. and Mrs. Ashe. Needless to say, a family of three healthy boys pro­vided precedent-that was more than ample and experience that was re­flected in every delicious dish of the meal. 
Sunday afternoon we went down to the Knights of Columbus hall where we met Joseph "Stubby" Flynn, Vic Yawman and Norb Baglin. An after­noon's discussion of the Notre Dame situation, local and general, followed. Yawman's invitation home to supper was quickly accepted and a fine eve­ning with that pleasant family—Vic, Mrs. Yawman, two fine children and Vic's dad as a second guest, followed. 
. The following morning Vic called' for me and we visited Aquinas Insti­tute where Father Grady, the hospi­table principal, gave us free permis­sion to meet as many of the senior boys as we could during the day. During the morning it was possible to talk to three separate sections of the substantial group of these boys, all of whom were most courteous, at­tentive and interested in Notre Dame, where a fine representation of Aqui­nas boys have come. Later on we went to West High School where sev­eral boys had signified an interest in Notre Dame to Principal Spinning, and through Dr. Holzwarth, vice-principal, I had an opportunity to in­terview these boys. Similarly at East High, Principal Wilcox made it pos­sible for me to talk to Roger Morri­son, a boy who is enrolling at Notre Dame in the Fall, brother of Arnold, a Sophomore now on the campus and of Francis Morrison, '32. 
Releasing Yawman from two days of appreciated companionship and service, I spent the evening with Kid Ashe on the problems and possibilities of the Club and the District, the Class of '22 and the Association. So much is combined in his dynamic self that it was like a one-man association to meet him. 
Tuesday morning I got an early start for 
Syracuse, Feb. 14 — Vince Brown was the man chosen for the sacrifice by the Syracuse Club and throwing himself into it with efficiency he spent a busy day that resulted most pleas­antly and profitably for me. 
Beginning early we visited four high schools, at three of which I was given the opportunity to speak to the senior groups. The fourth, the Chris­tian Brothers, while expecting me and planning accordingly, had unexpected­ly called off classes for the day, and I was able only to meet Bro. Thomas, the head. St. Lucy's St. John the Baptist and Most Holy Rosary were the three high schools visited, and in all of them I found Notre Dame a welcome topic of conversation. 
Following the last visit, previous to which we had been joined by Presi­dent George "Duke" Kinney, we ad­journed to the office of George Kel­ley. There we were later joined by Leo Paul, Barney Schonlau, Leo Kel­ley, and Jim Huxford. TTiis group finally adjourned to the Green Gate where a general dinner meeting of the Club was held. 
On, then to 
Albany, Feb 15 — There Frank Dis­ney served as the master of ceremon­ies in the peculiar nature of the Club area, aided greatly by Vincent Kelley, •whose car was an invaluable boon in the day's affairs. We were greeted most cordially by the brilliant Rev. William Charles at St. Vincent's, and an opportunity to speak to the boys of the school in the spacious auditori­um was eagerly accepted. Fr. Charles proved to be most interested in Notre Dame, and an acquaintance of Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, Provincial. 

Thence to the office of Joe Carey, where we were later joined by Clare Touhey, who seems to be solving the intricacies of the Capitol City very satisfactorily. After a lengthy and informative visit there Disney, Kel­ley and I drove out to visit Walter O'Brien who is regaining his health rapidly. Then we had dinner and ad­journed to the Disney home where a meeting had been called for the eve­ning. Troy and Schenectady alunmi braved the cold and snow to come over for one of those informal ses­sions that never failed to bring out something new and something inter­esting to me from the different alum­ni angles, and, I hope, something equally new and interesting to the alumni from the immediate campus. 
Then the strange interlude in 
New York City, Feb. 16-19 — 1 say "strange interlude" because the vast maze of metropolitan prep schools argued against any attempt to visit them individually, and the trip to date had been so compact and rushed that, coupled with the peculiar habits of New York and New Yorkers regard­ing eating and sleeping, I moved in more or less happy inefficiency dur­ing the four days there. 
Going immediately to Democratic National Headquarters, in the Bilt­more Hotel, I met Watts Eicher, for­mer office companion on the campus when he worked on the University Endowment campaign. He had of­fered hotel facilities at 1055 Park Ave., where the N. D. colony of Eicher, Bemie Conroy, Dr. Tom Sheen, Dan Cannon, and John Rior­dan, offered a 24-hour Notre Dame Club sen'ice. This was the day after Roosevelt had been shot at, and head­quarters, including Ambrose O'Con­nell, Governor of District Seven of the -A.ssociation since Angus McDonald moved to the West Coast, and Frank Walker, was in pretty much of a tur­moil. Was finally taken to the Park Ave. apartment by Dr. Sheen and re­moved the four upper layers of Ohio and New York. Had discovered for­mer National Association Treasurer, Walter Duncan staying at the Bilt­more and visited him there. 
At 6:30 I had the unusual and ap­preciated pleasure of dining with the 
N. Y. Club Governors at the New York 
A. C, following which a large turn­out of Club members overflowed in the Club and listened most kindly to the cumulative observations of the trip, which by this time had grown to speech-like proportions. The N. Y. Club's activity is reflected in a sep­arate report elsewhere. I just want to express here again appreciation for the meeting, which, considering the fine meeting for the President of the University a short time before, and the impending inauguration of Club luncheons, was none too timely or convenient. Rev. John Kelly, chap­lain of the Catholic Writers Guild, spoke, and I had the pleasure after­ward of a visit with him in which he expressed the idea which seems to be growing in favor and which is ex­panded separately in this issue. 
Following the meeting. Dr. Jerry Hayes, Bemie Conroy, both good Class Secretaries when Hayes will work at it. Jack Flynn, who is now assistant district attorney in New Y'ork and was expecting a new son home from the hospital the following day, Eicher and I held a post-mortem at a spot whose location has naturally escaped me. 
Friday I was busy during the day, visiting Walter Duncan again and later going to Washington Square for a visit in the alumni offices of New York University. In the eve­ning, Bemie Conroy and I attended Charley Butterworth's show, "Flying Colors." 
Saturday morning I had a pleasant visit with one of the reecnt bride­grooms, Paul McGannon, who was trj-ing to reconcile romance, law and the Inner Circle dinner in a short morning. While I was there he talked to Bill Cotter on the phone. Bill has started out to meet technoc­racy by not coming in from New Ro­chelle on Saturdays. 
Naturally I had several fine visits at the Democratic headquarters where Eicher is working with the stage and screen division of the national com­mittee. I met Eddie Dowling. now an honorary member of the N. D . Club of New York, and many other friends of the Universit.v, whose as­sociations -(vith Frank Walker, Am­brose O'Connell and Eicher have edu­cated them thoroughly on the local advantages. 
Saturday night I had dinner with Dan O'Neil, the one-1 classmate, and a young lady friend of the O'Neil family. I stayed that night in the apartment which O'Neil shares with John P. Traynor, '25, and a non-N. D. man with an N. D. name, Jerry Ly­ons. It was pleasant to discover that TrajTior, in addition to considerable business success, is pursuing writing as an avocation, an article appearing in the apartment house organ the very night I was there. He received our hearty congratulations. 
Sunday noon we helped Fathers Kearney and Richards of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross open a men's mission, in the nearby Church of the Guardian Angel, by occupying front seats. O'Neil and Traynor promised me to continue making the Mission. 
Sunday night, after a visit in the afternoon to the former chief of staff in the Alumni Office, Miss Elenore Engeldrum, who is working in New York, Larry Keefe and I went through divers ways to Brooklyn where we en­joyed, along with Joe Burke, the hos­pitality of the J. Norbert Gelsons, Jimmy and Dick. 
Monday, early but not bright, crossed through the tubes to 
New Jersey — Feb. 20 — I was met at the station in a pouring rain by Tom Farrell and Ted Quinn and a busy day got under way. We went to Morristown, where the New Jer­sey Club's retreat already has made Notre Dame familiar and popular, and I was privileged to speak to the boys of Bayley High, where "Bus" Griffin is coach and physical director. Rushing from there back to Summit I had the very enjoyable experience of meeting the boys of The Oratory School, a private school conducted by the Oratorian Fathers, an excellent and attractive institution. Father Joseph, the head master, was most cordial and is an enthusiastic sup­porter of Catholic higher education for his boys. 
Coming back to Newark — Quinn by this time had been dubbed "'Twen­tieth Century" for speed and schedule —.we were presented to the general assembly of St. Benedict's, and be­tween the many N. D. alumni who have come from there, the boys who are at Notre Dame now from the school, and the cordial and real un­derstanding of Notre Dame by Father Boniface, the superior, it was a treat to me to talk to the boys. After a bite of lunch in the school's cafeteria, we drove out to 'Montclair where "Bus" Griffin shares his time in phy­sical directing with the Immaculate Conception high school. But the boys were just embarking for a basketball game when we arrived, and in the nature of the visit we simply paid our respects and called it a very pleasant and efficient day from my angle. 
At St. Benedict's we had been joined by President Russell Riley. At a most enjoyable dinner, after stop­ping to visit two N. D. boosters, the party consisted of Russ, Tom Farrell, Bob Huetz, Ted Quinn, Jack Winger­ter, whose efficiency had made the school arrangements during the dav, Dan O'Neill, the two-1 '26 O'NeUl, and myself. After dinner Dan and I rushed over to New York where both of us had theater engagements, Eicher having secured tickets for "Twentieth Century" which, to a res­
ident along the "main line" was very 
funny. I might as well finish New Jersey 

DIX REUNIONS 
in one review, which includes the fact that I returned from Philadelphia the following night for a formal dance JUNE 2, 3, and 4, 1933 which the Club was giving and whicli had prevented a Club meeting the previous day. Needless to say, every­thing was done to make me welcome and I saw numerous and sundrj' N. D. alumni in the course of the evening, 
CLASS SECRETARIES NOTE! CLASS JIEMBERS NOTE! 
all familiar figures in the New Jersey news. The dance was most entertain­

MAKE YOUR PLANS ACCORDINGLY! 
ing and apparently very successful. The line of years at the top margin desifftiatcs the years in ichich reunions are hdd. The coiumn Back in the cold black morning to 
of figures down the left margiji designates the dass year or year of graditation. 
Philadelphia, Feb. 21-22 —Tuesday, 

1933 1934 1935 1930 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 
1939 the day I returned to Jersey for the 1939 
1938 1938 dance, I had a very fine day, lunched 1937 1937 with John Neeson, Governor of Dis­1936 1936 trict Six, and Tom Conley, now coach­1935 1935 ing at N. D., at the Penn Athletic 1934 1934 Club. Met Bob Reagan, coach at Vil­
1933 1933 lanova and President of the Club, and 
1932 1932 1932 
we had dinner. Early in the evening, 

1931 1931 1931 
before going up to Jersey, I met with 

1930 1930 1930 
a group of members of the Club at 

1929 1929 1929 1929 
the Big Brothers in Philadelphia and 

1928 1928 1928 1928 
1927 outlined the plans and purposes. In­
1927 1927 
1926 asmuch as the eastern half of the trip 
1926 1926 1926 
1925 was late in forming, I was much 
1925 1925 1925 
1924 1924 1924 1924 pleased with the response all along 1923 1923 1923 1923 the way. 
1922 

1922 1922 1922 1921 1921 1921 1921 Wednesday morning, Washington's 
1920 1920 1920 1920 Birthday, due to loss of time from an 1919 1919 1919 1919 epidemic earlier in the fear, I found 1918 191S 1918 1918 1918 the schools in session, and thus had 1917 1917 1917 1917 1917 an unexpected opportunity to talk to 1916 

1910 1916 1916 
the Seniors of Roman Catholic High 1915 

1915 1915 
1914 School. I found the new superior. Dr. 
1914 1914 1914 
1913 Leo Bums, most hospitable and the 
1913 1913 1913 
1912 boys very interested. Joe Walsh, of 
1912 1912 1912 
1911 Wilmington. Delaware, is teaching at 
1911 1911 
1910 Roman Catholic and I enjoyed a visit 
1910 1910 1910 
1909 with him. Lunched again with John 

1909 1909 1909 
1908 1908 1908 1908 Neeson, whose health was forcing him 1907 1907 1907 1907 to take a vacation from the arduous 1906 1906 1906 1906 city engineering. 

1905 
1904 1905 1905 1905 1904 1904 1904 Then, like a good Democrat, on to 1903 

1902 

1903 1903 1903 
1902 1902 1902 
1901 1901 1901 1901 Washington, Feb, 23-24 — I arrived 1900 1900 1900 Thursday morning and was very 

1899 1900 
1898 1899 
1899 1899 sorry to learn that Dr. J. A. Flynn, 1897 1898 189S 1898 President of the Club, was seriously 1896 1897 1897 ill. I went on out to Holy Cross Col­1895 189G 1896 lege, Brookland, after lunch. Father 1894 1895 1895 McBride, superior, was away, but 1893 1894 1894 1894 Father George Holderith agreed to 
1892 1893 1893 1893 
act as guide and companion for the 

1891 1892 1892 1892 
day. We went over to the adjacent 

1890 1891 1891 
Catholic University and found Forrest 

1889 1890 1890 1890 
"Fod" Cotton and George AHk of the 

1888 1889 1889 1889 
C. U. coaching staff in the gym. 

1887 1888 1888 1888 1888 
1886 1887 1887 Calling James D. Hayes, Secretary 
1887 1887 
1885 1886 1886 1886 of the Club, from there, I found a
1886 

1884 1885 1885 1885 1885 meeting arranged for the Mayflower 1883 1884 1884 1884 that evening. Father Holderith, Fod 1882 1883 1883 1883 1883 and George and I drove down to the. 
1881 

1882 1882 1882 House ofiice building and stopped to 1880 1881 1881 1881 say "Hello" to Congressman William 1879 
1880 1880 1880 
J. "Peaches" Granfield. He insisted 

1879 1879 
1878 1879 on taking us to his apartment at the 
1878 1878 
Shoreham, where Father Holderith and I stayed for a delightful dinner. Previous engagement kept the popu­lar Massachusetts representative from coming with us to the meeting at the Mayflower. 
Going into the Mayflower we met a group of the N. D. men in the lobby talking to Bemie HefTeman. After a short stop there we left the lobby to Huey "Kingfish" Long and adjourned to the echoing spaciousness of the Italian Room, where questions and answers on the late shooting and the imminent inaugural with the famous Frederic William Wile giving his keen observation, followed the N. D. forum. 
Friday I enjoyed luncheon at Holy Cross College with Father Robinson, acting superior, and the priests and seminarians there. (I achieved a feat, useful in this depression, of eating a soft boiled egg from the wrong end of the egg cup.) 
After a conference with Jim Hayes at the Veterans Bureau in the after­noon I entrained for Pittsburgh, the last stop on the schedule. 
Pittsburgh, Feb. 25—^Arriving there Saturday, there was of course no pos­
sibility of contacting the schools. Jack Sheedy, President of the Club, had arranged a luncheon meeting, al­though the regular Club Luncheon was held Thursday. Needless to say it was very encouraging to find a room full of the familiar names and faces that comprise one of the most active Clubs in the roster. 
I found the Club enjoying a sub­stantial, interesting and successful Club program and vitally interested in everything pertaining to Notre Dame. The defeat of the Notre Dame team there last Fall certainly hadn't affected the spirit of the Club ad­versely. The old Q. and A. having been indulged in freely and I hope to mutual benefit, the final meeting of the circuit was adjourned. 
South Bend and Notre Dame, Feb. 26 on —Back to find I had missed some sixteen-below-zero and some tons of snow, that the Univer­sity was running but two banks had not followed suit — two more banks, to be accurate — that my Essex was the same smooth-running antique I left it, and that several of the chil­dren remembered me. 
Kid Ashe Conies Through With '22 
CHET WYNNE recently astounded the world by voluntarily requesting that his salary as football coach at Auburn University be slashed in keep­ing with the spirit of the time.^. The university authorities at Auburn surely must realize that such action is most unusual in view of the fact that Auburn has completed its most successful football season in years. Chet was prominently mentioned as successor to JIM CROWLEY at Mich­igan State prior to the selection of CHARLEY BACHMAN for the posi­tion. 
Word comes from VINCE HANR.A.­HAN that he is busily engaged at present preparing maps for the U. S. Dept. of Interior in Washington. Vince and J. P. CuUen expect to rep­resent our class at the anaugural cer­emonies in March. Both men are still open for appointment to the Roose­velt cabinet but have been unap­proached up to the present. 
CY GAFFNEY now has a well de­veloped law practice in New Britain, Conn.—the old home town. 
EDDIE and CORNIE PFEIFFER, F R A N K B L 0 E M E R, and PHIL DANT are still in Louisville. Most of them manage to visit the campus for football games or Commencement. 
CLETE LYNCH who has taken many punches on the chin through the medium of this column is prepar­ing a brief that will make JERRY 
DIXON'S recent devastating attack appear like a game of drop the hand­kerchief. Well, lete it will have to be good for comments are all very favor­able to Dixon's latest effort, in fact, we believe it will be looked upon as a classic by '22 men, approaching if not equalling, BILL MINER'S famous oration in the Oliver Hotel when we were graduated. 
JOE SHAUGHNESSY, prominent among Kansas City architects, is anx­ious for the depression to end so the building trade may undergo a revival. 
We are in the market for news about EARL DICKENS, EMILE HIL­KERT, and JIM FOGARTY. Bv the way, MATT McENIRNY and FRANK GILLIS apparently need a few jolts for we still awaits news about them. 
Admiting the possibility of error, our overseas contingent now consists of DUKE GONSALEZ in Manila, ' Rev. HILARY PASZEK, C.S.C, in France and Rev. RAYMOND SWI­TALSKI, C.S.C. in India. 
Co-operate With The ALUMNUS 
Advertisers 
S
otne 

COOK'S 
current oiferings 
PRE-EMINENT VALUES 

Cri-iami cruise to Southern Europe, *JMeaiterraHeau, 
RUSStn Luxurious cruising through Julj- and August in the great 33,000 ton J{OAL\ of the Italian Line . . . 14,090 miles .. . to ports that reach from ^Madeira east­ward to Odessa and Yalta on the Russian coast of the Black Sea . . . from Cannes, Venice and the Dalmatian Coast southward to Port Said. Sails from New York July 1, returns August 22. Bates without shore excursions are only S300 up. Tourist Class, S550 up. First Class. S5.70 up per day . .. 2-1/lOc per mile! Comprehensive illustrated folder on request. 
University T'acation Tours 
to Kurope Tours personally conducted by eminent educational leaders thoroughly versed in the customs, history, art and literature of the countries visited. Sailings Tourist Class in famous express liners and ultra-modern cabin ships. Alany unusually attractive itineraries, short and long. Rates extremely reasonable. Send for your copy of "University Vacation Tours" and get the complete details. 
Popular Tours to Europe 
Unsurpassed for value . . . tours expertly conducted by members of our own staff. .. great variety of fascinating itineraries to choose from. Many include travel by private motor. All arc admirable in their choice of hotels and transportation, in their selection of routes for your enjoyment. Ask for the booklet "Popular Tours to Europe." 
For anything in Travel make it a point to consult tis . . . there is no obligation. 
WAGONS-LITSINC. 

COOKS 
THOS. COOK & SON 
587 Fifth Avenue, New Yocic Philadelphia Boston Baltimfire Washington Chicago St. Louis San Francisco Lo« Angeles Toronto Montreal Vancouver Mexico Gtjr 
AGENTS FOR ALL STEAMSHIP LINES 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Glen Smith, '27. 832 Elmore Ave.. Akron. President: C. G. McGuckin. '2S. Medina Road, Akron, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D. Barry, '97. 82 W. Pennington St., Tucson. President: Steve Reljeil. '25, 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner, 'l-l. Hope-President : Burt L. Roberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Tunothy Crowley, C.S.C., '02, Dac­ca. President: Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C., Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Charles Crowley. '21, 40 Mill St., Dor­chester. Mass, President: James R. Doo­ley, "22, 36S Main St., North Andover, Mass,, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy. '27, 8S Liberty St.. Bridgeport. Conn, (temporarychairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Paul D. Hoefner. '25. 280 Woodward Ave.. Buffalo. President: Edmund J. Lutz. Jr.. '24. 91 Beard Ave.. Buffalo, Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. '23. 55521 Vine Ave., Harvey, Illinois, President: William R. Doolcy, '2G, 211— 157th St., Calumet City, Illinois, Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITOL DISTRICT—John J. Meighan. President: 
F. L. Duquette. '28, 1074 Glen wood Blvd., Schenectady, N. Y., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF CHICAGO— Austin McNichols. new president. Com­plete news next month. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert Hughes. '29. 3563 Burch Ave.. President: W. D. Morrissey. '26. Cath­olic Charities Bureau. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —Thomas F. Byrne. '28. 750 Huron Rd.. President: Clayton G. Lcroux. 3356 Daleford Road. Heights Branch. Cleve­land, Secretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran-field. '13. State Bldg.. 1200 Main Street. Springfield. Mass., President: James A. Curry. '14. 647 Main St., Hartford. Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF D.\LLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift. '24. 422 Inter­urban Bldg.. Dallas. President: Francis 
A. McCulloush. '30, Dallas, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer, 'OS. 512 Mutual Home Bldg.. Dayton. President: Andrew A. Aman. Jr.. '30. 210 Lexington Ave.. Dayton. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickcy. '28. 1515 Grant St.. Presi­dent: O. L. Hough. '27. 1575 Race St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. "22. Des Moines Catholic College. President: Charles H. Lynch, '28, 1429 - 13th St.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT— John E. Moore. 'OS. Third Floor. Gen­eral Motors Bldg.. Detroit. President: Paul J. Dooley. '25. 5202 Hamilton Ave.. Detroit, Secretar>'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. El. '12, 1511 R. I. Ave., N. W., Washington, President: James D. Hayes, 5115 Eighth St., N. W.. Washington. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17, Erie Daily Times, President: Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman. '30. Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Odice. City Hall. Green Bay, Wis., Presi­dent: Levi A. Geniesse. '24. 510 Minahan Bldg.. Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH.—George E. Ludwig. '25, 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W.. President: Ray­mond J. Bonini. '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., 
S. E., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON, OHIO—M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St.. President: Marc A. Fiehrcr, '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HLVWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich.. President: Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette, Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— JL E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston. Texas. President: T. F. Green. • Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretarj-­Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Merid­ian. Indianapolis. President: John T. Rocap, '30, Fidelity Trust Bldg.. In­dianapolis, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Wil­liam Bossingham. '25. 408 Buell St.. Joliet. HI.. President: Ed King. 301 Ruby SL. Joliet. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF K.A.NSAS CITY -Daniel F. Folej-. '23, 25 Wint Ave.. Ft. Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John 
M. Dugan. '27. 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANS.\S—Al­bert J. Gebert, '30. U. of Kansas. Wich­ita. President: Dan Welchons. '30. 306 
E. 13th St.. Hutchinson. Kansas, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY'­
H. R. Dempf. '23. 400 M. E. Taylor Bldg.. Louisville. President: Wm. A. Reiscrt. '30. c/o Roiscrt Ins. Agency. 352 Starks Bldg.. Louisville. Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —^William B. Chawgo, '31. Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co.. 303 Graham Bldg., Aurora. III.. Secretary pro tern. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF LAPORTE. INDLXNA—A. Gordon T.iylor. '18, 1507 Indiana Ave.. Laporte. President: Nor­man Duke, '33. 304 Niles St., L,iportc, Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES —John W. Wadden. '07. 414 .Associated Realty Bldg.. Los Angeles. President: Laurence A. Moore. '29. 1463^. S. Bed­ford. Los Angeles. Secretary-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­inSSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St.. New Orleans, President: Cyp­rian A. Sporl. Jr.. '28. Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, '24, c/o Ayala & Cia. 21 Calle Juan Luna. Manila. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney. Jr.. 1878 Union Ave.. President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE 
—William J. Redden. '14. 3525 W. North Ave., Milwaukee. President: Paul Brust. '28. 135 W. Wells St.. Milwaukee. Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen. '96. 435 Qark St., Helena. President: James B. O'Flynn, '11. Great Falls. Mont., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Williams. Jr.. '29. 106 Gal­latin Rd., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASKA— Gerald J. Barret. '22, 315 S. 37th St., Omaha, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NE:W JERSEY —Russell Riley. '28. National Newark & Essex Bldg.. Newarak. N. J.. President: Joseph Nulty. '27, 945 Madison Ave., Elizabeth, N. J.. Secretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—John E. Kenney. '21. care Foster Wheeler Corp.. 165 Broadway, New York City. President: J. Norbert Gelson. '26. 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. 
N. Y., Secretary. 

NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA —John S. Mclnnes. '22. 1855 Sacramento Street, San Francisco, President: Mark Kreutzcr, '24. 311 Cali­fornia St., San Francisco, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. OTfeil, '83, Army Recruiting Station, Second and Washington Sts., Portland. President; L. Bernard Macnab, '25, Terminal Sales Bldg., Portland, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—RajTnond J. Eichenlaub. '15. Hoster Realty Bldg.. Columbus. Presi­dent. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea. o. s., '09. 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank, Tulsa, President: Leo A. Schumacher, '13, ICing Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA—Robert Reagan. '24. 502 Cecil St.. Canonsburg, Pa., President: Harry H. Francis. Jr.. '30, 15 Spring Ave.. Ard­more. Pa., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —John A. Noppenbcrger, '25. 223 Head­ing Ave., Peoria, President: Leo Cav­anaugh, '24, 907-10 Jefferson Bldg.. Peoria. Secretari'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —^Thomas Ashe. '31. 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, President: Raymond D. Downs. '26. 46 ainton Ave., S.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Sherwood Dixon. '20, 120 E. First St.. Dixon. HI.. President: J. Wil­lard Jones, '25, 122 Crawford Ave. Dixon, m.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLU B OF RHODE ISLAND—Charles A. Grimes. '20. Para­mount Bldg.. Providence. President: Cv­ril A. Costello. '29. 44 Huxley Ave.. Providence. Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Edward J. Mechan. '20. South Bend Tribune. South Bend. Ind.. President: Timothy Benitz. '31.1341 
E. Wayne. N.. South Bend, Ind„ Sec'y. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo SutliSe, '24, 2701 So. Grand. Presi­dent: Robert Hellrung, '30, 7214 North-moor Drive. University City, Mo.. Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

List of Class Secretaries 
Year 
Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Fitchburg. Mass. 1880-85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson Circleville. Ohio 
Local A lumni Clubs 
(Continued) 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrington, '25, Continental MortRage Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—GeorBC 
L. Kinney. "20, 1919 S. State St., Syra­

cuse, President; Vincent Brown, '23, 1814 James St., Syracuse. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEX,\S—Harold Tynan. '27, 240 
E. HuLSacI<c Ave., San Antonio, Texas, President: Kirwln J. Williams, '28. 105 
E. Rosewood, San Antonio, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St., President: Fred J. Wagner. '29. 152 Sycamore St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO—Mr. John Q. Carey. '27. 2514 Chase St., Toledo, President; Fred A. Sprenger, 3i2'J Kimball Ave., Toledo, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CITIES—Richard B. Swift, '20, Kohl Bldg., Davenport, la.. President; Henry 
M. McCuIlough, '20, 26 McCuIlough Bldg.. Davenport. la., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CI­TIES—Allen H. Mahar, '28, 53 Arch St., Johnson City, New York, President; John D. O'Loughlin. "o-s.. 24. 506-7 People's Trust Company Bldg.. Bing­hamton. N. Y.. Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— John J. Doyle. '28. 414 2nd Ave.. S.. Minneapolis. Minn.. President: Robert logerty. '28. College of St. Thomas. St. Paul. Minn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady. '24. 206 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har­beckc, '19. 64 F. St.. Salt Lake City. Sec 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer. '25. Purdue Uni­versity. Lafayette. Ind.. President; Peter Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA — Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. Bethlehem. Pa.. Temporary Chair­man ; Charles B. McDermott. '27. Allen­town. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF \VESTERN PENNSYLVANLV—John C. Sheedy. '28. 5540 Bryant St.. Pittsburgh. President: John B. Reardon. '22. 715 Union Bank Bldg.. Pittsburgh. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon. 
O.S. '02; Stimson Bids.. Seattle. Wash.. President: E. Morris Starrett, •14-'21. El. '23. 801 Washington St.. Port Town­send. Wash.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —George A. GafTney. •98-'99. 54 Park PI.. Waterbury. Conn.. President: James 
M. Monaghan. '27. 44 Ayer St., Water­bury. Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co.. Wheeling. Presi­dent; George Sargus. '28. 2111 Belmont Bellaire. Ohio. Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma, O. P.. Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson. Newburgh. New York. President; Miss Rose Stef­fanlak. 161 Walnut St.. Coldwater. Mich.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr.. '25. 1018 First National Bank. President: Norman Smith. '24. 12G Roslyn Dr.. Secretary. 
18SE Michael O. Bums 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier 1888 John L. Heineman 1889 P. E. Burke 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell 1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 1896 William P. Bums 338 S. Second St.. Hamilton. Ohio 
Ludington. Michigan 
Connersville. Indiana 301 Camp St.. New Orleans. La. 
T University Ave.. Minneapolis. Minnesota 
The New York Times, New York City 
860 Fhelan Bldg,. San Francisco. Calif. 
327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City. Indiana 
1898 Wm. C. Kegler 1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 1900 John W. Eggcman 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1902 C. C. Mitchell 1903 Francis P. Burke 1904 Robert Proctor 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 1906 Thomas A. Lally 1907 T. Paul McG.innon 1908 Frank X. Cull 1909 E. P. CIcary 1910 Rev. M. L. Morlarty 
1911 
Fred L. Steers 1912 
B. J. Kaiser 1913 
James R. Devitt 1914 
Frank H. Hayes 1915 
James E. Sanford 1916 
Timothy P. Galvin 1917 
Edward J. McOsker. John A. Lcmmer 1913 Clarence Bader 1919 Leo B. Ward 1920 Alden J. Cusick 1921 

Gerald Ashe 

1922 
Paul Castner 

1923 James F. Hayes 1924 John W. Scallan 1925 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 1926 Edmund DeClercq 1927 
Louis Buckley 

1928 Joseph McNamara 1929 Bernard W. Conroy 1930 John E. Boland 1931 Herbert Giorgio 1932 
1897 Rev. John A. MacNamaraSt. Joseph's Sanitarium. Mount Clemens. Michigan 
9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati. Ohio. 418 JelTerson Bldg.. Peoria. Illinois 
1201 First National Bank Bldg.. Fort Wayne. Ind. 
1300. 139 N. Clark St.. Chicago. Illinois 110 S. Dearborn St. Bo:c 3. Chicago. III. 904 Trust Company Bldg.. Milwaukee. Wisconsin Monger Bldg.. Elkhart. Indiana 10 S. LaSallo St. Chicago. Illinois 811-13 Paulsen Bldg.. Spokane. Washington Bar Bldg.. 36 W. 44th St. New York City Buckley Bldg.. Cleveland. Ohio 
P. O. Box 356. Momence. Blinois 527 Beall Ave.. Wooster. Ohio 1635 First National Bank Bldg.. Chicago. Illinois 324 Fourth St . Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave.. Chicago. Illinois 1033 S. Linden Ave.. Highland Park. III. 708 First Tnist Bldg.. Hammond. Indiana 
211 Hamilton .\ve.. Elgin. Illinois. 1110-8th Ave.. S.. Escanaba. Michigan 650 Pierce St. Gary. Indiana 1012 Black Bldg.. Los Angeles. California 1 Park Ave.. New York City 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester. New Y'ork 313 Napoleon Blvd.. South Bend, Indiana Fifth .\venue Ass'n. Empire State Bldg.. N. Y. City Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St. Chicago. HI. 38 N. 12th St. Newark. New Jersey 8126 Drexel Blvd.. Chicago. Illinois 718 E. Corby St. South Bend. Indiana 231 Wisconsin St. Indianapolis. Indiana 1055 Park Ave.. New York City 3624 Chestnut St . Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 9005 ISSth St.. Hollis. L. L. New York 
District Gooernors 
District Name 
I Frank E. Hering 

II John W. Costello III John P. Murphy IV William J. Redden 
V Don P. O'Keefe VI John H. Neeson VII Ambrose O'Connoll VIII Gerald A. .^she IX Hon. Wm. J. Granfield X Hilton Goodwyn XI Harry Mehre 
XII W. N. Bosler Xn l Twomey ClifTord XIV -Arthur T. Simpson 
XV John L. Corley XVI Walter Duncan XVII Hon. Albert J. Galen XVIII Raymond M. Humphreys XIX Terence B. Cosgrove XX Dr. J. M. Toner XXI Emmett Lenihan 
XXII C. C. Fitzgerald 
Address 

Dean Bldg.. South Bend. Ind. 57 E. 21st St. Chicago. III. Terminal Tower. Cleveland. Ohio. 3525 West North Ave.. Milwaukee. Wis. Chev. Motor Co.. General Motors Bldg.. Detroit Mich. City Hall Annc-c. Philadelphia. Pa. 1600 Broadway. New York City. 226 Glen Ellyn Way. Rochester. New York 1200 Main St, Springfield. Mass. 2110 East Grace St. Richmond. Va. University of Georgia. Athens. Ga. 1001 Heybum Bldg.. Louisville. Ky. Camden. Arkansas 208 Southwestern Life Bldg.. Dallas. Texas. 4463 Lindell. St. Louis. Missouri. 658 First St. La Salic. HI. 435 Qark St . Helena, Mont. 1423 Race St.. Denver, Colo. Los Angeles Athletic Club, Los Angeles, Calif. No. 1 Terrace Drive, San Francisco, Calif. County-City Bldg.. Seattle. Wash. La Metropolitana. 242. Havana, Cuba. 
» ^^ «T r^ •, 







