The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
VOL VI. CONTENTS FOE FEBEUARY, 1928. -NO. 6 
George Keogan Frontispiece Notre Dame's Current Literature—B)/ Bro. Alphonmis, C.S.C. 227 Alumni Prominent In Glee Club Success 232 An Opportunity for the Local Clubs '. 235 The Alumni Clubs ^ 237 Editorial 242 George Keogan, Coach—By H. C. "Pi" Warren 243 The New Football Captain 1 244 Athletics—By J. P. McNamara 245 The Alumni ' 249 
The magazine is published monthly during tlie scholastic year by the Alumni Association 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is ?2.00 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include 
a year's subscription to THE ALUilNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. 
at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiara, under the Act of March 3, 1S97. All corres­
pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box SI, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
JAJIES E. ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The Alumni Association 
of the 


University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Headquarters: 329 Administration Building, Notre Dame James E. Armstrong, '25, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EDWARD L. MAURUS, '93 ---- Honorary President JOHN P. MURPHY, '12 -------- President JAMES F . O'BRIEN, '13 ------ Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 ------- Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 -------- Treasurer EDWIN C. MCHUGH, '13 -------- Director JOSEPH M. HALEY, '99--------- Director ALFRED C. EYAN, '20--------- Director GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '03 -------- Director DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, '05 --- Director {ex offido) 
GEOEGE KEOGAN, COACH OF BASKETBALL 
[See Story Page-243] THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
A magazine which seeks to unify Notre Dame spirit amon^ Notre Dame alumni; to keep alive the friendliness and democracy of tlie camt)us when campus days are gone: to acquaint Notre^ Dame alumni witli the development of the University, and the broader devel­opment of the principles of Catliolic education; to organize alumni activity so that it may better and in a greater measure attain its ends; to live in print as Xotre Dame men livn always, "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." 
i?i 


Notre Dames Current Literature In 1927 
By BROTHER ALPHONSUS, C.S.C. 
A
T the present day, current literature azines in this class are The Dublin Revietv is synonymous with popular liter­and The Month; Studies is an able Irish ature. No doubt a great deal of the quarterly review. In these various period­matter published by the innumerable news­icals the thought of the best Catholic au­papers and magazines of our time is only thors may be found. Their special articles, ephemeral value, and is not worth the time editorial comment, and poetry are worthy required to keep abreast of the great del­of the serious attention of cultivated read­uge of print that pours daily from the ers. Among these articles and poems are countless presses of the world. While this some which have been contributed by mem­evaluation of periodical publications is true bers of our own faculty, and to this rather on the whole, yet there are some noteworthy complete list I now wish to call the atten­exceptions to the ineffectiveness of the out­tion of my readers. put of most modern magazines and news­It is not my intention to single out for papers. special and deserved commendation any of The general reader of current literature the productions, but merely to give the title is quite able to estimate the value of what and place of publication of each article that he reads. Of course, his own tastes and pre­my readers may see for themselves the in­ferences will largely detennine the quality terest and value of Notre Dame's contribu­of his reading. Apart from the technical tion to current literature in 1927. and scientific contributions to present day 
EEV. GEOEGE ALBERTSON, C.S.C. 
literature, which will interest but a limited The first volume of the "Universal number of readers, there is a host of publi­Knowledge," 1927: 
cations which offer worth while material. To keep in touch with the progress of PACE PAGE 
90 "Abutilon" 879 "Angiosperms" 
events, and to learn what our age is con­
101 "Acacia" 962 "Antiarin" 
tributing to the advancement of civiliza­
109 "Acanthus" 1018 "Apios" tion, Ave must peruse the best periodicals 123 .. "Accltmatization" 1198 "Areca" of the day. 151 "Aconite" 1198 "Arenaria" 151 "Acorn" 1299 "Arnica" 
Besides the interest which every educated 
235 "Adonis" 1314 "Ari-acacha" 
man should find in genei-al current litera­
375 "Agrimony" 1319 '.'Arrowhead" ture, there is for Catholics a department of 38S "Ailanthus" 1334 "Artemisia" periodical literature that should appeal 630 ... "Alpine Plants" 1339 "Artichoke" 674 "Amaranth" 1346 "Arum" 
strongly to them. This is literature impreg­
674 "Amanita" 1358 "Asafetida" 
nated with the Catholic spirit. Among the 
675 .. "Amaryllidaceae" 1366 "Asclepiadaceae" magazines in which such contributions may 695 "Amentiferae" 1367 "Ascomycetes" 
be looked for are The Ave Maria, America, 762 "Apelopsis" 1398 "Asparagus" 779 "Anacardiaceae" 1434 "Aster" 
and The Commomveal, all weekly period­icals; The Catholic World, a monthly; and 
BEOTHER ALPHONSUS, C.S.C. ­

Thought, a quarterly review. These are all 
Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes—^August:
American publications, of which we may "A New Edition of the Imitation of be proud. The most scholarly English mag­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Christ"—^"A Masterly Analysis of Preju­dice and Bigotry." Tfie South Bend Tnbune, December 25th: "Christmas Bird Census at Notre Dame." 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG 

Report of the Fourteenth Annual Confer­ence of American Alumni Council— "Club and Alumni Scholarships." 
PROFESSOR JOHN J. BECKER 

South Bend Neivs-Times— Special Articles on Music.—Critical Re­views of Concerts in South Bend. 
Mtisical Obsemer, New York City— "A Method with an Ideal." (March issue.) (Articles to appear in "Musical Obsei-ver," New York City in 1928.) One article to appear in The Musical Qarterhj, 1928.) "Re\aews of Vander Swissen's Translation of Goethe's Faust," reprint­ed in E. P. Denton's- Book review paper. 
REV. WILLIAM A. BOLGER, C.S.C. 
N. C. W. C. Bulletin—December: "A Catholic Industrial Program." 
REV. LAWRENCE BROUGHALL, C.S.C. 

Notre Dame Alumnus—November: "History, Tradition of the New Dining Hall. 
MR. PAUL BYRNE Notre Dame Alumnus—January: "Notre Dame Library Treasures." 
REV. PATRICK J. CARROLL, C.S.C. 

Ave Maria—January 15th: "The Mating of Tess"—(short story). Februaiy 16th: "Night," (poem). March 19th: "March 17," (poem). July 9th: "The Priesting of Michaeleen." 
((short story). December 10th: "The Fleeing Judas," (poem). America—March 19th: "The Dead Shamrock," (poem). Oct. 15th: "Readers for Catholic Writ­ers,"—(essay). Dec. 24th: "Christ or Santa Claus." —(essay). Nov. 5th : "The Blind Man of Jericho," 
— (poem). 
Catholic World—April: "Irishmen of Easter Week"—(essay). "How Shawn Found His Soul" 
— (short story accepted). 
"The Man God: A Life of Christ." Scott, Foreman & Co., Pub. 
Ecclesiastical Review—^June: "Pastoral Instruction of Converts." 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. St. Mary's Chimes—June: 
Commencement Address at St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind.,—"Behold! The Dreamer Cometh!" 
Notre Dame Alumnus—June: 
•"The Soul of the Church." (A sei-mon preached at the Installation of the Rt. Rev. George Finnigan, C.S.C, D.D.) 
Book Review for Catholic Vigil and the Lit­tle Flower Circle. 
PROFESSOR BURTON CONFREY Catholic School Journal—27:213 ff, Oct.: "The Writing of a Dissertation." 
27:306 ff., December: 
"The Writing of a Dissertation: II The Use of the Library." 
24:407 ff., February: "Oral English: The Speaker's Relation 
to His Audience." "Oral English: Variety in Assignment." Loc. at. May, 27:59 ff: 
Magnificat— 
40:290 ff., October: 

"Secular Domination of Reading Matter." (Book Reviews contributed each month.) Sentinel of the Blessed Sacrament— 
"Why Does Youth Yearn?" 
30:703 ff, Nov. "Sons of God." 30:143-9 March—30:233-41, April. "A Sentinel of the Blessed Sacrament." Loc. Cit. June, 30:366 ff. 
Grail— "The Quest for the Grail at Notre Dame": January, 8:409 ff; February, 
8:460 ff; March, 8:499-502; May, 9:28 f; June, 9:77 f; August, 9:166 ff; Sept., 
9:214 ff; October, 9:260 ff. "Spiritual Conquistadors"— November, 9:305 ff; Dec, 9:359 ff. 
Scholastic— "Father Carroll's New Book" Sept. 23, 
60:10 ff. America— "Sharing an Enjoyment in Poetry." April 16th, Vol. 37, p. 16 ff. Catholic Education Revieiv— "The Teaching of Oral English III." February, 25:96-106. 
"An Orientation Course Developed through Discussion." Loc. Cit. May, 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
25:257-67. "Albumin" (albumen). English Joui-nal— "Albuminuria." 
"The Expository Talk as a Class Exer­cise." March, 219-22. Placidian— "Reading Lepanto Aloud." April, 4:139-42. "A Chaplaine of the Virgine Myld." hoc. Cit. July, 4:234 ff. Western Catholic— "A Survey of the Religion of College Men." February 25. Thought— "Crashaw's Religious Poetry." December, 2:392 if. 
REV. WM. F. CUNNINGHAM, C.S.C. 
Catho.ic School Interests— "All Learning is Self-Activity." March. "Chaos Vs. Cosmos in Teacher Train­
ing." May. 

"The Reconstruction of Secondary Edu­cation." (July, August, September; also reprinted in the Proceedings of the Catholic Educational Association, 
1927.) "American Secondaiy School." August. "Secondai-y Education in France." Nov. "Secondary Education in Gei-many." Dec. 
Homilctic and Pastoral Review— "The Perfect Gift." (Sermon)—April. "True Neighborliness" (Sermon)—July. 
MR. NORBERT ENGELS 

Amenca—(Poems): "White Lilies Grow There Now." Mar. 19 "Ave Maria."—May 7. "Come Walk With Me."—Aug. 20. "In Gascony."—Nov. 12. 
Wisconsin Magazine—(Poems): "Reflecting."—April. "Foolscap."—May. 
Ctrail— "Veneer."—September. 
MR. VINCENT ENGELS 

Conimomveal—(Poems): "Prayer For a Lonely Night."—May 11. "Avignon."—August 31. 
MR. WILLIAM E. FARRELL Universal Knoioledge—^Vol. I. "Pre-Columbian Discovery of America." 
PROFESSOR H. B. FRONING Universal Knoivledge— "Adipocere." 
MR. RAYMOND HOYER 

Knights of Columbus Boy Life Bureau— 
"Games and Stunts for Boys." Exchangite— "A New Profession."—^April. 
MR. DANIEL HULL 

Proceedings of the Indiana Academy of Science (1927): "Theory of Thunder Storms." 
PROFESSOR FRANCIS KERVICK The Notre Dame Alumnus— "The New Dining Hall, Architecturally." 
PROFESSOR E. G. MAHIN 

Transactions, American Society for Steel Treating—(Paper): 
"Segregation of Dissolved Elements and Its Influence upon Carbon Distribution in Steel." Vol. 12, p. 905. E. G. Mahin and H. J. Dillon. 
(Book) : Third Edition, Fourth Impression of Text Book: "Quantitative Analysis." McGraw-Hill Book Co., New York. 
(Paper): Colodial Arsenic Triiodide in the Arsenic Determination. 
(Paper): Hydrogen Diffusion in Iron^ (The last two papers are to appear in the 1927 Proceedings of the Indiana Acad­emy of Science.) 
REV. GEORGE MARR, C.S.C. 

Bulletin of National Cailwlic Educational Association— "A College Course in Religion."—^Nov. 
REV. CHARLES C. MILTNER, C.S.C. 
Po-oceedings of the First Anmial Meeting of the American Philosophical Association. 
"Neo-Scholastic Ethics and Modem 
Thought." 76., Second Annual Meeting. "Neo-Realism: A Discussion." 
The Neiv Scholasticism— "Moral Sense: Mind and Man" Vol I, No. 2. "History of Philosophy, Miller." Vol. I, No. 4. 
2'he Ave Maria— "Guarding the Gift of Faith."—Dec. 2. Book Reviews—(Weekly). 
Notre Dame Ahminus— "Neo-Scholastic Schools and Scholars."— September. 
REV. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C.S.C. 
Universal Knowledge— "Acetic Acid." "Acetic Ether." "Acetins." "Acetoacetic Ether." "Acetone." "Aldehydes." "Alkaloides." "Analine." "Aromatic Series." "The History of Botany." 
Amencan Midland Naturalist— Book Review—Page 371, Vol. X, No. 10. 
REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C. Religious Survey—(1926): Religious Bulletin—(Daily). 
REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
America— "Adress to the Crown."—April 16. "Questionaire."—^May 7. "Before a Crib."—December 24. 
Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes— "Mother of Priests."—January. "In Passiontide."—March. "Upon St. Magdalen, Weeping."—April. "Of Visions."—May. 
27(6 Ave Maria— "To Her."—May 7. "Misnomer."—November 12. 
The Commonweal— "Vesperal."—February 2. "Design for a House."—February 23. "Conclusions."—March 2. "Marginals."—April 20. "In No Strange Land."—August 24. 
Poetry—A Magazine of Verse. "In the Upper Room."—April. "On Meeting a Lady."—December, Thought— "The Presence of God: A Sonnet Se­quen."—September. "Advice to the Poets."—May. In Anthologies of Poetry by Theodore Maynard, Thomas Walhs, Louis Vincent, 
Margarite Wilkinson, Jessie B. Eittenhouse, 
Burton Stevenson, Richard Le Gallienne, 
Father Talbot, S.J., and W. S. Braithwaite. 
PROFfcsSOR CHARLES PHILLIPS 
America-^ 
"Some ;Real Christmas Eeading."—Dec. 
18. (i926). "Inscription for a Book" (verse) —July 23. "Califotnia Aquarelles" (verse sequence —8 poems)—^August 6. "Miracle." (verse)—October 8. "Rose in the Rain" (verse)—October 15. "Pi-elude in a Daisy Field" (verse)—date 
lost). "Joyce Kilmer in Heaven" (verse)—(date lost) "Eucharist" (verse)—Dec. 17. 
Comnionwea'.— "Ladislas Reymont" (article)—Feb. 16. "A poet of Soul and Sex" (article) Feb. 7. 
Catholic Woi-ld— Book Reviews: "The Patriot Novelist of Poland"—Oct. "The Man-God."—September. "American History."—September. "Lotus of the Dusk."-^uly. "Incense."—June. "Forever Free."—June. "Roads from Eden."—June. "The Fire of Desert Folk."—June. "Rip Van Winkle Goes to the Play." May. "A Dictionary of European Lit."—March. "The Naked Washington," (article), Feb. "The Big Show (article)—September. 
American— "Debating the Mexican Question" (ai-­ticle—^May 7. "The Living Classics."—November 5. 2'he Campus Publication— 
(Article accepted but file lost.) llie Book of Modem Catholic Verse— Literary Digest— 
"Sister Giovanna" (verse). Scholastic— "Fathers of Sons" (verse)—Feb. 22. 
Poland (mo. mag.)— "A David Among Nations" (poem),Nov. "Iridion"—(article)-nJuly. 
Neiv York Times and Literacy Digest— "Electra"—December 10. Vobime of Poetry— "High in Her Tower"—September. 
F. T. Kolars Co., N. Y. 
MR. KNUTE ROCKNE Notre Dame Abimnus— "Football Still Has a Kick."—Oct. The Scholastic (Pittsburgh)— Oct. 29. "Plajdng Your Position." Boys Life—Sept. "Fundamental Football" American Legion Monthly—Oct. "The New Football Is the Old Football." Country Gentleman—Aug. 30. "Football." 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 231 
Cherry Circle Magazine—(Chicago A. C.) Sept. "Football." Indac—(Indianapolis A. C.) Sept. "The Great New Game of Clockball." 
Cln-istij Walsh Syndicate— 
Football articles throughout season. "Campus Comment," a Sports Column. ME. WILLIAM F. EOEMEE 
Proceedings of the American Catholic Phil­osophical Society, 1927­"St. Thomas and the Ethical Basis of In­
ternational Law." EEV. JOHN A. EYAN, C.S.C. 

Oiir Sunday Visitor— 
"Studies in Church History." 
EEV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHEE, C.S.C. luteotiational Catholic Truth Society— "The Catholic Church Her Indefectibility and Perpetuity." 
•RTTV TT7n T WAT?r. rQ P . ' 

,,', , , _, ,„ , i N -, Master and Servant" (a story)—Jan. 
rpj J ^ \ JI 
„. ,T~ „ -., ,.^, „ , .^. ,
"A Note on George Meredith" (a critical 
° ^ 

_, „ ^ ' 
The Commomveal— 
UT3 1 I-.-" /J: -1 N -NT on 
"Brush Fire" (familar essay)—Nov. 30. 
DE. H. H. WENZKE "Thermal Conductivity of Condensing 
Vapor Films." 

(This paper is to be published in the 
1927 Proceedings of the Indiana Academy 
of Science.) EEV. F. X. WENNINGEE, C.S.C. 
Universal Knowledge—First Volume: "Agouti" pp. 346 1^'Amoeba" pp. 758 ||Annelida"^.. pp. 926 "Arachnida" pp. 1123 "Argali" pp. 1202 l^'Ai-my Worm" pp. 1298 
Ape pp. 1010 HON. DUDLEY G. WOOTEN Notre Dame Laiuyer— 
"The Church and the State in Mexico."— (2 articles)—^Vol. II, Nos. 4 and 5, Feb. and March,—25 pages, (reprint in pamphlet). 
"Standardization Eun Mad, the Gibbs Bill in New York."—Vol. I, No. 6, April-May, 1926.—6 pages. 
 "The Scopes Case"—Vol. I, No. 1. Nov.  1925—29 pages. (Reprint in pamphlet.)  "Curiosities of the Law. A Case in  Punctuation." Vol. I, No. 5, March, 
 1926.—14 pages. 
National Catholic Educational Bulletin No.  24.—"The Province and Purpose of  Catholic Education." November.—39 
 pages. (Eeprint in pamphlet.) 

M^^- M'CEEADY HUSTON Pictorial Revieiv—  "A Clean Collar," short story—^April. "^ " Unexpected Welcome," short story.  —June. 
Scnbner's— 
"Daughters," short story—June. 
 ALUMNI BIBLIOGRAPHY 

 ^" connection with the list appearing in  this issue of articles published during 1927  by the members of the University Faculty,  -4. u , ^ j xi. ^ • -i ^• ,. \e  jj; jjjjg been suggested that a similar list of 
 articles by Alumni be compiled for The 
 ,, ,, . , j ^ j ;
Alumnus.- Alumni are asked to send m ar­
 tides which they had published in periodi­
i , , .-i T. ^i. i •
 cals last year, or articles by other alumm  i.-i .i. .-j which they noticed. • _ 


 RELIGIOUS BULLETIN OUT 
The Ahimnus has the pleasure of an­ p.ouncing that the 1926-27 edition of The Religious Bulletin, edited by Eev. John F.  O'Hara, C.S.C, is now off the press and can  be secured by writing to Father O'Hara,  Sorin Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 
 L^st year Father O'Hara sent the Bul­ ^^^j-^ ^^ ^u ajumni, but this involves a tre­ mendous expense, and he has had to adopt  ^j^g ^-^^^ ^^ sending it only to those who ask ^^^. j^.^ -^^^^ ^^^^,^ Bulletin attracted na­ ^oual attention, some unfortunately in the  nature of misinterpretation. But it un­ questionably exerted a national influence  and is a gi-owing factor in national Cath­ olic student life. There is a heavy demand  from sources other than Notre Dame and  this has been the chief factor in making the  change. This does not mean that alumni  are not welcome to the BitHetwj, simply that  it will not be sent except on request. 


Alumni Prominent in Glee Club Success 
F
EIENDS of Notre Dame, those who choose to be unfriendly, and even many Notre Dame men, have one common fallacy. They magnify the number of No­tre Dame alumni. It isn't without reason. The recent Glee Club tour, one of the most pretentious itineraries of its kind, empha­sized the ability of Notre Dame men to make their presence felt in a fashion out of proportion to their numbers. The tour of the Club was a success musically as the account a little later will show. But first you ought to hear of the ef­forts of the Notre Dame men along the line who had the streets paved with u p h o 1 s t e r­e d bricks to 
JOSEPH CASASANTA, '23 
make the go^ 
Director of the Glee Club 
ing easy. 

Al Cusick, William P. McPhee, J. P. Lo'gan, et al had the first shot at the Club in Denver and hit the old bullseye. The concert repaid their efforts and the special letter that lii: McPhee sent out to his friends, saying that the boys could sing as v.ell as the team played football, will'go down in history as an authentic document. 
Eay Brady was the guiding star of the Club's appearance in Salt Lake City and had things set through the N. D. Club there so that the stay in the city was a pleasant round of entertainment for all parties con­cerned, Ray was pre\aously reported as hitting the high spots in the law, and the way he had things ari-anged for the Club indicates that in spite of the recent dis­covery of the body of the founder of Mor­monism, Ray is still among the salt of that pai-ticular part of the earth. 
Howard Parker had the people of Sacra­mento believing that Notre Dame was a home industry from the way they support­ed the concert given there, and Howard comes within one of being the only alumnus in Sacramento. Between his efforts and the Knights of Columbus, the Club felt a Notre Dame atmosphere. They were met in Stu­debakers and had dinner at Howards' Club, the Sutter Club. Mr. Pelchier, president of the Chamber of Commerce, was convert­ed to Notre Dame and proved himself a real 
N. D. man in putting over a successful con­cert. 
In San Fi-ancisco, Notre Dame men were a little more numerous and Al Scott seems tc have brought up enough of the L. A. sunshine to dispel the usual fog so that the Club had a real stop. Al and Y. L. Mott, of the Palace Hotel, and Keene Fitzpatrick, Liberty's Pacific Coast manager, John Mc-Innes, and Doctor Toner, were on hand all the time. Eustace Cullinan, Sr. and Jr., were on the Native Sons committee for the concert, as was Slip Madigan. The Club enjoyed a tour about the bay and general entertainment while they were there. 
Los Angeles, if the sad truth be told, didn't get started as soon as such a con­cert really requii-es, and in proportion to the number of N. D. men in Los Angeles, compared with the other cities on the trip, the alumni showing was hardly a passing grade. Los Angeles, however, was probably getting ready for the annual exodus of the cold-dodgers, and business unfortunately has to come before pleasure. 
San Antonio brought the glow of pride to the Editor's face. The old Class of '25 rose to its heights in the persons of Joe Menger, Mark Hess, Mike Needham, and Bill Dielmann. These men, with Harold Tynan, '27, practically put the concert across in San Antonio, and gave the mem­bers of the Club a good time that made the quintet look like about fifty. Southern hos­pitality and all that sort of thing had a real field day. 
Up in Houston they must have had word of the San Antonio concert, because Con­roy Scoggins, George Burkitt, Nat Powers, Tommy Green, and the N. D. men in gen­eral had the way paved. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Every place along, the itinerary the Notre Dame men were on hand to make prelimi­nary arrangements, entertain the boys while there, and put the concert across. They did it in a way that would never in­dicate the real scarcity of alumni in the cities where the Club appeared. The trip indicated the power of the Alumni to ex­ert a real influence in their communi­ties. The Abimnus need not expand on the need to further thes e movements. Local Clubs will do a service to them­selves, to Notre 
Dame and to their Business Manager of community by se­thr. G'cc r.lub 
ANDREW J. IIULREAXV, 
curing speakers, pic­tures, or organizations representing Notre Dame whenever opportunity permits. 
The following account gives the story of the trip itself and a number of interesting criticisms of the Club: 
After inculcating in the hearts of the people of the West and the South a peren­nial association of beautiful music with the University of Notre Dame, the Glee Club has returned to the campus following a series of Christmas holiday concerts which extended to ten cities and was heard by 20,000 people. 
The 6,000 miles tour through the West and the South was unquestionably the most successful and the most ambitious Glee Club trip ever undertaken by students of Notre Dame. Acclaimed every\vhere they appeared as representatives of the highest type of college men and singers, the Glee Club members and their conductor, Joseph 
J. Casasanta, are deserving of every bit of praise that has been accorded them. 
Discriminating critics of music almost without exception tendered praise of the most liberal sort to the Notre Dame sing­ers. They were compared quite favorably v.'ith the Sistine Choir and the Ukranian Chorus: John C. Kendal, writing in The Denver Rocky Mountain Neivs, went so far as to declare that they were in every res­pect superior to many ''much touted pro­fessional gi-oups." 
The Club progi-am, marked by a pleasing 
variety indicative of the versatility of the 
singers, was proportioned in such a way as 
to keep the interest of the audience through­
out. Eanging from the beautiful and mov­
ing Gounod's Second Mass, "Gloria," to bal­
lads, popular novelties and college songs, 
the program was at once artistic and 
popular. 
Joseph J. Casasanta, the director, was 
the recipient of praise of the highest order. 
Of Mr. Casasanta The Times-Picayune of 
New Orleans has this to say: "Joseph J. 
Casasanta, conductor of the chorus, obvious­
ly is a splendid musician and personality 
as well." The San Francisco Examiner 
terms him "a leader of force and discern­
ment." 
Anthony J. Kopecky, tenor soloist, was 
singled out as "the star of the company" 
by one critic. This represents the general 
%dew of the critics to judge from the re­
^aews. Two articles published in papers 
in different cities suggested him .as a po­
tential McCormick. He "revealed as sweet 
a young voice as has been heard in 
New Orleans in years," said The New Or­
leans Times-Picayune. 
Alfred L. Meyers, basso; Frank W. Het­red, tenor; and Fred J. Wagner, baritone, soloists, sang effectively and beautifully on every occasion. These men, in addition to the Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, who is the club's faculty advisor, Andrew J. Mul­reany, business manager, and H. Jerome Parker, and Bernard F. Ducey, assistants, who arranged the trip in its entirety, are deserving of the highest congratulations for their work. 
FIRST CONCERT AT DENVER 

The Denver Auditorium, in Denver, Col., was the scene of the first appearance of the Glee Club on its trip. The Club sang there Dec. 28, arriving that afternoon from Chicago. A dance at the Argonaut hotel followed the concert. Mass, celebrated by the Bishop, for the repose of the soul of Eugene Kelley, senior, v/ho died on his way to his home in Denver, was attended by the Glee Club members in a body the following morning. 
The Denver concert was commented on in part by The Rocky Mountain Neivs as follows: 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
"To those unfamiliar with tile work of the 
college glee clubs of today the program was doubt­
less a revelation. . . . The work of the group 
all through was characterized by shading, superior 
tone quality, and that which is much to be desired 
In male choirs, singing in tune. Compared with 
other muih touted professional groups which have 
recently honored us with their presence, they were 
as a ray of pure sunshine in all these respects." 
Singing under the auspices of the Ameri­can Legion in the University of Wyoming theatre at Laramie the following evening, Dec. 29, the Club presented a concert of a quality that indicated that experience was swinging the vocalists into their best form. They left at midnight and arrived in Salt Lake City the following afternoon. 
VISIT SALT LAKE CITY 
Salt Lake City played host to the Club members for three days. After dining at the New House Hotel as guests of the Notre Dame alumni, the Club gave a concert in the Chamber of Commerce auditorium at which Governor Dern was present. The con­cert was sponsored by the alumni. 
An organ recital at the Mormon Audi­torium, which possesses the largest organ in the world, was attended the next day. The Glee Club sang for the sisters at Holy Cross hospital that afternoon and at St. Mary's of the Wasatch college in the even­ing. This college is conducted by Holy Cross sisters. New Year's morning Gou­nod's Second Mass des Orpheonistes was sung in the cathedral of the Et. Eev. John 
J. Mitty, Bishop of Utah. At Sacramento, Calif., the Club gave a 
concert the evening of Jan. 2, in the Memo­rial auditorium. 
BENEFIT PERFORMANCE FOR MISSION Mayor James Rolph of San Francisco, who is entering his 21st year as mayor of the city, interrupted his inaugural exer­cises to meet the Notre Dame singers on their arrival at San Francisco. The Club sang that evening at the Civic auditorium before an audience estimated at 4,000 peo­ple. The proceeds of this concert were added to a fimd for the restoration of Mis­sion Santa Clara. Following short visits at Santa Clara and I.eland Stanford universities, the club left for Los Angeles. Concerning the work of the Glee Club in San Francisco, Leonard Hinton of the Examiner of that city made the following comment in the course of a review: 
•'. . . It was a great pleasure to hear the 
Glee Club of Notre Dame University open its 
program at the Civic auditorium last night with 
two fine sacred selections, the Emitte Spiritum of 
Scheutky-Singerberger, and Gounod's second JIass. 
This opening was a splendid moment, one which 
flrmly established the club as a group of singers 
of unusual talent, and tlieir conductor, Joseph J. 
Casasanta, as a leader of force and discernment." 
VISITS STUDIOS 

A welcome diversion in the form of a trip through the Fox and the Warner Bros, moving picture studios marked the appear­ance of the club in Los Angeles. The alum­ni sponsored the concert given at the Phil­harmonic auditorium in that city. 
The Southern trip began when the Club boarded the Golden State Limited Jan. 5, for El Paso. After a bi'ief stay there, the singers left for San Antonio where they gave a concert Jan. 7 at the Municipal audi­torium. 
Approximatp'y 2,000 people heard the Club sing mass in St. Joseph's church Jan. 
8. After viewing the city in the afternoon, the Club gave an infoi-mal concert that evening for the students of Our Lady of the Lake College, the second largest Cath­olic girls' school in the country. 
HOUSTON CONCERT PRAISED 
Houston was the last of the Texas cities visited. A concert was g^ven in the city auditorium there Jan. 9, following a day of sight-seeing and various entertainments planned by the alumni. Of the concert in Houston, The Post-Disjiatch said in part: 
"The glee club of the University of Notre Dame, 
appearing in Houston for the first time after a 
triumphant tour of other American cities, sang its 
way into the hearts of more than 2,000 Houstonians 
at the City auditorium Monday night. Part songs 
and glees by the entire club and solos by youths 
with surprisingly well-trained voices were so well 
accepted the audience showed unquestionable signs 
of disappointment when continued applause failed 
to bring added encores." 
END SOUTHERN TRIP 
The Southern swing of the trip culmin­ated in a concert in New Orleans, La., Jan. 10, in the Knights of Columbus audi­torium. The Times-Picayune of New Or­leans gave a lengthy review of the Glee Club program of which the following is an excerpt: 
"An evening of splendid music was offered 
Tuesday night at the Knights of Columbus audi­
torium by the University of Notre Dame Glee Club, 
a musical organization easily comparable in its 
finer moments to such groups as the Sistine Choir 
and the Ukrainian Chorus." 
The tour was terminated in Chicago, Jan. 12, where the Club gave a concert at the Studebaker theatre. Following this last ap­pearance, the club left for South Bend. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

An Opportunity For The Local Clubs 
F
INANCES, as usual this time of year, 
occupy an undeserved spotlight in the 
affairs of the Association. Increased income has been accompanied by increased-expenditure so that the annual deficit seems to stare us as brazenly in the face as last year. 
President John Murphy is averse to the individual appeal plan which brought us out of the depths last year, a plan which is used by many other Associations. (A se­cret of state is that few Associations sup­port themselveg on dues and advertising, but that doesn't mean that it can't be done with the proper development. It just means that alumni work is still fresh.) 
It is therefore up to the Editor, Secre­tary and General Manager of the works to propose something that will keep the or­ganization not only alive but kicking. The following plan for financing the Associa­tion during the remaining four months of its year has been evolved. It rests upon the Local Clubs for several reasons. These Clubs have been built up, largely through the agency of the Alumni Office and the Alumni magazine, plus, of course, the spirit of the pioneers who first organized and launched them. An appeal to them does not resolve itself into simple begging from individual members. The burden is better distributed. The Clubs participating will win for themselves very desirable pub­licity and add a really valuable chapter to their history. If they believe, as their very existence intimates, in the desirability of an organization of Notre Dame men, they will respond to the suggestion. 
mv 1 • • 1 f t-v. r'l,,!,^. +« 
The plan is simply for the Clubs to ^, • -4^ 4.1 4. • 4.1, finance the various items that comprise the 
J, 4., . • .• j: 4.1 „

major expenses of the Association for the
^ 4.1. mi, 

rest of the year. These are: 
The March Aftwwnjts $350.00 The April " 350.00 The May " 350.00 The June " 350.00 Moving Picture Equipment (al­
ready purchased) 200.00 
Representing the Assn. at the Catholic Alumni Convention in New York City, April 20-21-22 125.00 
 Eepresenting the Assn. at the 
 Alumni Council Convention in 
 Minneapolis, May 3-4-5 75.00 
 These are the principal items outside 
°^ salaries. It is to be hoped that the ob­
 ligation of dues will weigh heavily enough 
 to pay the salaries of the Secretary and 
 Assistant during the four months, 
 The plan is almost self-evident. For the  Clubs who undertake the sponsoring of  ^''^ Alumnus, the followng plan has been  developed as a means of lessening their  burden. Ten pages of the issue will be al­ lotted them for advertising. In these pages  they can solicit a business directory of the  "^en^bers. The issue will be distributed  ^^ong all the members, whether regular  subscribers or not, and such a directory  ^^'" ^« "^ I'^al value. This plan would .pay  ^°^' ^^^ '^sue if properly promoted. The is­ ^"^' ^'^^ ^^^ November "Dining Hall" Edi­ *^°"' ^^'"'^^^ feature a history of the Club  ^"^ ^^^ achievements. The issue would be  J?^°^^'^ as the " Club ^^1*^°"' "^ ^''^^ Notre Davie Alumnus. It  ^'^°"ld ^^^ ''^ I'^al achievement in itself for  ^^^ ^'u''- The Editor is confident that there ^^'^ ^* l^^st four Local Clubs who can un­ ^^rtake this work this year, 
 Financing the purchase of the moving  Picture equipment would be a most patri­ °*'^ ^^^^'^ice to the Association. This equip­ '"^"t is going to do more toward keeping  ^°*^^"^ ^^^ ^ ^^^d Notre Dame men united  t^^^" ^"y °ther single factor in the Asso­ "^tion. The equipment o^vned by the Asso­"^t'° " "°^^'' ^^'""'^ be called after the Club  *^"* finances it, and the Club would be 
 -„„„ +1,1, d j. j.-r ,.,. -^ ,,  given the benefit of the publicity that will . ., ,, ^,'^ . / "" "'  inevitably accompany the development of 
, . .4.
 the picture project, 
 rr.v„ 4. 4.. .,.,„. 
Ihe two conventions sound like a Spring  Vacation for the Secretary. They aren't.  He has been to both and knows. It is al­ most essential to the progress and dignity  of the Association to be represented at  both the National Catholic Alumni Federa­ tion in New York, and the American  Alumni Council in Minneapolis. It is a co­ incidence that the dates come so close.  But it does not lessen the merits of both. 
In the Catholic field Notre Dame is a 
leadei-. The Notre Dame Secretary is one 
of three paid alumni executives in the 
work. He has been honored with an invi­
tation to speak before the New York Con­
vention. Notre Dame owes it to Catholic 
alumni organization and welfare to make 
this representation iDOSsible. The Club that 
assumes this responsibility will be doing a 
great service to Notre Dame and to the 
Association. 
Similarly in the American Alumni Coun­cil Convention in Minneapolis. The Notre Dame Secretary, one of but very few Catholics in the organization—^%vhich num­bers the secretaries, editors and fund di­I'ectors from several hundred of the lead­ing universities and colleges of the United States and Canada—was honored this year by being made Director of one of the Nine Districts of the Council, District V, com­prising the states of Indiana, Illinois, Wis­consin, Michigan, Ohio, Kentucky and West Virginia. This Council Convention contributes more to general alumni develop­ment in America than any other organi­zation and pays far more than it involves in actual dollars and cents capitalization of the ideas it off'ers annually. 
The above items are costly, but essential to the progress of the Association. None of the members of Notre Dame's organization want alumni development to stop with the maintenance of an office, with a few rec­ords and the publication of a magazine, when all of these items are but the be­ginning of the real idea back of alumni organization, the carrying of the Univer­sity into the lives of her graduates after they have finished their courses. Clubs in­terested in pursuing the above activities can get all the details from the Alumni Office, Box 81, Notre Dame. Plan them im­mediately so that the Association can plan accordingly. 
NOMINATING COMMITTEES 

If you have your candidates for Presi­dent, Vice-President, Treasurer and Direc­tor picked out, let the Committee know. They probably want advice, as naming a slate is not easy. The names and addresses of the Committee are as follows: 
Committee 1—William E. Cotter, '13, 30 E. 42nd St., New York City; Frank X. Cull, '08, Bulkley Bldg., Cleveland; Leroy 

J. Keach, '08, 108 S. Delaware St., Indian­
apolis, Ind. Committee 2—Thomas A. Dockweiler, '12, 
I. N. Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif.; Fred L. Steers, '11, First Nat'l. Bank Bldg., Chicago; William J. Granfield, '13, State Bldg, 1200 Main St., Springfield, Mass. 
<•<••> ^ <• ^ ^ 4> 4> ^ ^ ^ <> •:• •> <. .> •:• ^ 
•> EMPLOYMENT SERVICE • 
• ^ • • •••*••<• • •> •> •:• •:• <• •> .> •> •> 
16a. B.C.S. '26 man wants a job in his line somewhere in New England. OPPOKTUNITIES 
New York shoe manufacturing com­pany wants Notre Dame salesmen to cover Indiana and part of Kentucky. Some ex­perience. Make home in territory. 
Chicago firm wants Sales Engineer, pre­ferably Mechanical Eng. grad, about 35 years old and active. Resident of Calumet Dist. or Northern Ind. preferred. 
Publix Theatre Managers Training School, New York, offers opportunities to men interested in this field. Details fur­nished on request. 
Above items require prompt action. Write Box 81, Notre Dame for details. 

DEBATE FINALS HELD 

Father William Bolger, head of the de­pai-tment of politics and economics, and coach of the varsity debating team, selected twelve men to represent the University in the Inter-collegiate Debating Society. They are James C. Roy, Joseph P. McNamara, William F. Craig, Arnold L. Williams, Arthur Stenius, Walter Stanton, James McShane, James Keegan, J. J. Walsh, Wil­liam O'Keefe, James McGrail and Donald Colman. 
Debates have been arranged with De Pauw University, Franklin College, Pur­due University and Earlham College. Sev­eral others are pending. The first debate will be held on March 2. 
The question for debate this year is: "Resolved, that the Direct Primary in the Election of Federal and State Officials be Abolished." 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
BUITALO 

Football prospects at Notre Dame this year are far from encouraging because of the graduation of ten players from last year's successful team. Knute Rockne, dynamic coach of the famous fighting Irish teams, niade this unlocked for pre­diction January 24, in his address before the members of the Buftalo-Notre Dame Alumni Club at the Statler. Notre Dame's hope for another great team, he added, lies wholly in the material that is uncovered in the interclass squads and the prospects are not too bright. 
Reviewing the 1927 season, when the team went through a hard schedule with only one defeat, Rockne declared it was Notre Dame spirit and helief in school tradition that carried the team to championship heights. "We face a stiff sched­ule for ne.vt year," he stated, "and I franlily admit that I am worried. I sincerely hope the hoys will develop, but I am not optimistic." 
Rockne addressed a gathering of nearly 100 graduates of the Soutli Bend university, including fourteen members of the alumni from Rochester Jay L. [Biff] Lee, a member of the 1911 team and teammate of Rockne, was toastmaster. Royal 
H. Bosshard, president of the Rochester Notre Dame Alumni Club; Jlayor Frank X. Schwab, John D. "Wells, managing editor of the Buffalo Courier Express, and Alfred SI. Saperston, presi­dent of the Ad Club, also spoke. 
"It is the infiuence of men like Knute Rockne 
that reaches the young boj-s of to-day," Mr. 
V.'ells stated. 'The college boy of to-day differs 
from the college boy of 30 years ago. The normal, 
regular college man has changed perceptibly and 
it depends upon men like Mr. Rockne to foster 
and increase the college spirit. He enjoys the 
distinction of doing one thing better than any other 
man can do it.' 
Mayor Schwab advocated good, healthy, clean 
sports to build in boys a healthy body and 
clean mind. Greetings from the various college 
clubs in Buffalo were extended the members of 
the Notre Dame alumni. The guests of honor at 
the alumni dinner included Glen Carberry, for­
mer coach at Saint Bonaventure College; Luk.-' 
Urban of Canisius, the Rev. Leo J. Toomey of 
Lakeview and the Rev. Francis McGuiness of 
Silver Creek. 
Rockne made but brief mention of football con­ditions at Notre Dame. He related many humor­ous events of college life and told of the new stadium to be erected at South Bend next year with a seating capacity of between 40,000 and OO.OOO spectators. The stadium will be ready for the 1929 football season, when two big games 
•will be played on the new field. 
He told of the systematic athletic training that is part of the scholastic requirements and de­clared the boy who follows this s.vstem In ath­letics does the best work academically. ""We are trying to educate the boy," he said in his closing remarks, "to prepare for life so that he will be a credit to himself, his parents and to his school. That this has been accomplished can be judged from the alumni of Notre Dame." 
Buffalo Press 
FORT WAY>TB 

Dear Jimmie: Strange as it may s'eem I am getting consci­entious about my obligation as secretary of the alumni club here to provide you with some news matter for the Alumnus. 
F. Leslie Logan '23, recently of Pittsburgh, has returned to Fort "Wayne as membership and pro­motional director of the million dollar Catholic Community Center building. A good- man for a very good job. James V. Egan, '23, resigned his position as general secretary of the Fort "Wayne institution several months ago to accept a sim­ilar office with the Gary Community Center. The old membership secretary was promoted to Egan's place causing the vacancy which Logan more than fills. And by the way, Logan is moving his family back, his family consisting not only of Mrs. Logan hut also of F. Leslie Jr. a potential Notre Dame half-back. The infant at his Pittsburgh baptism had aS his godfather an Irish gentleman by the name of Vin Sweeney, also '23 or there­abouts. 
Francis J. Galvin, '23, of the famous legal team of Galvin & Galvin. Hammond, was recently opera­ted on for appendicitis and is recovering nicely in fact so nicely that he recently journeyed to Fort Wayne to confer with other members of the class of '23. 
E. J. Lennon Jr., deputy attorney general of thff great Hoosier commonwealth, visited in Fort Wayne over last week-end. The night of Cos­grave's visit in Chicago, the "Evening American" carried a story, "Irishmen present here to honor the Irish president are E. J. Lennon, etc. etc." That's just a slight indication of the rise of our 
B. J. If this write-up inflates Edward, we'll write another one deflating him. 
We are pleased to report that Joseph M. Haley, is on the road to recovery. Jlr. Haley took sick in November and has been confined to his home since. He'll be glad to hear a -n-ord or so from any of his friends although at present he's not able to answer many communications. 
Harry F. Flannery, publicist extraordinary, be­sides being advertising manager for a very pros­perous building supply concern here is publicity manager of the Community Center. 
With the Fort Wayne undergraduates actively in charge and the alumni aiding considerably, the Notre Dame Glee club sang here recently to a large audience. Newspaper comments were extravagantly laudatory, although the songsters 
ANNUAL FOOTBALL BANQUET—ST. JOSEPH VALLEY CLUB—UNIVERSITY DINING HALL 
wore dcaoi'vins ot any compliments that could preaches are Invoked for comparison, had tho tho space of time between 0:30 and 8:30. There havo boon written. pleasure novertholoss of sitting' In on tho January wore nfty there, and next month there should bo 
Charles M. Nlezor, old Notro Dame student, was dinner meotlne ot tho Club. And member or no that fifty back with (Ifty more. This St. .Too eoneral chairman of a chamber ot commoroo and member, lot tho truth bo told. It was one ot those Valley Club is coming Into its own with what Is Industrial expansion staged hero recently and the near-Ideal affairs that makes you como back. Pal commonly called a bang, or leaps and bounds, vf drive of course rang the bell with a lusty ring. Manlon, sometime Follow of Fun at the University, what you will In the way of emphasis. Tho Ho wa'3 considerably aided by Harry G. HoBan, and a professor ot law In his spare moments, not University caii begin any time the slaughter of chairman of the city's Industrial commission. to mention author of hlstorlof?, was tho speaker. tho fatted calf. 
This Is sufCloIont ffosslp for ono ofCusloii. A splendid banquet in tho K. of C. dining room 
HOCIIKSTISH, N. V. 
Cliff AVurd. was followed by tho Manlon eloquence. President 
Mike Donahue made a tow appropriate remarks Rochester and BufCalo sot a now Idea in oper­THE ST. JOSKl'M VAM.EY and Dudley Shively, past president, also made a ation on tho co-operatlvo mooting doscriljod In tho Tho AhimmiH Kdltor, who Is a poor member ot tow entortainlng comments, and then the guests Buffalo column, nocheater Is now laboring under tho St. Joe Valley Alumni, if tho principles ho wore loft free to pursue tho evening, all within tho administration ot Uoyal Bosshard, formerly of 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Milwaukee, Pres.; Ray Meade, Vice-P.; Gerry Smith, Sec. land a good one, let the Ed. note]; and Joe Tierney, Treas. Their annual dinner dance during the holidays was the biggest ever pulled off by any University in Rochester, and Rochester is not primarily a N. D. town. One hundred and forty couples. Professional enter­tainers, favors. The Club is showing the films of the So. Cal. game Feb. 7. The Rophester gang: went to Buffalo in busses on the 24th and added plenty of pep to the party, Bosshard speaking, etc. May more Clubs follow suit. 
AKKOX Prank Steel has scheduled the Akron Club for the Association films for Feb. 17th, so that that organization is back in the columns of life again. Frank says that not much has been doing in the tired city of late. A party on Dec. 2Sth, formal, gave the members of the Club a good time. Johnny Nyikos, late star of the N. D. basketball team, has been giving Akron alumni a treat in the way of basketball, connected with the Firestone Co. iliere. Charley Ward was seen in Akron recently, travelling for a jewelry house. I^ouis Block, ex— '2C, and his brothers, have been expanding in the jewelry business. Frank adds, having stores in South Bend, Cleveland and Akron. Judge Vogel has transferred to the sales force at Firestone, Tim Rauh is also connected there but was in Philadelphia when last reported. Pat Doran is winding up his medical studies at Western Reserve. Dick Tobin is assistant law director of the city of Alcron. 
NEW JERSEY 

SCew officers of the New Jersey Club, who escaped The Alumnus in recent issues, are A. Linden Bryce, Pres.; Cliailes "Winters, V .Pres.; Richard J. Purcell, Sec; Karl G. Pfeifter, Treas. The Club entertained Feb. 6th, at which time they planned to have a number of N. J. High School students present to learn of Notre Dame. Dick Purcell, Sec, extended the wishes of the X. .T Club to the other Club and to the National Asso­ciation. 
CHICAGO 

Chicago has a number of thngs frying, but they aren't quite set for the light of publicity. Never­theless from the hints Danny Hilgartner dropped they will be worth while so keep an eye peeled. A number of members of the Club have been down for basketball games etc, Dan O'Connor, di­rector of the Association, has been down several times. Jack Scallan was down for a weelt-cnd. Danny Hilgartner and Mrs. Hilgartner are due for the Butler game, as dcubtles.^ are a number of ethers'. 
M.VBASII VALLEY 

The annual dinner meeting and election of offi­cers of the Notre Dame Club of the Wabash Valley was held at the Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Ind., Jan. 31. Rev. D. L. Monohan, successor of the venerable Father Dinnen, pastor of St. Mary's Church, Lafayette, was made Honorary President; Francis Watson was made President; Tom Ward, Otterbein, Vice-Pres.; Herman Kamp 
was re-elected Sec; Dr. M. P. Lord was made 
Treasurer. 
The new officers are out to restore the bloom 
of youth to the Wabash Valley, which has faded 
a bit for lack of proper nourishment during the 
past year. Feb. IG the Club meets to prepare 
plans for Universal Notre Dame Night, which 
Herman says will be a high spot in Wabash 
Valley N. D. History. 
CLEVELAND This home city of the "National President is showing signs of his contagious activity. Cleveland is holding a meeting and showing films on the night of Feb. 9th. President Joseph Smith la neglecting the law interests of the city long enough to gather in the rather large Cleveland Clan for this meeting and the editor expects this to be a sign of a renewed life in the Cleveland organization which will produce at least another "Thundergust" on Notre Dame Night. 
MONTANA Tiiey aren't organized yet, but a lovely letter from Rt. Rev. Bishop George J. Finnegan, C. S. C, 
D. D. and N. D., '10, indicates that it won't be long. Bishop Finnigan was pleased with the suggestion of a Club in Montana and expresses the hope that the Treasure State will be repre­sented in the Universal Notre Dame Night meet­ings. He asks to be remembered to his many friends, and the old N. D. spir.t is strong In hta letter. 
lXl>IAXAPOUS Indianapolis alumni, between the rapid chang­ing of mayors, have found time to plan for aa entertainment of the basketball team after the Butler game there on ilarch 7, the last game of the season, and to plan for an observation of Universal Notre Dame Night. As Leroy Keach, President of the Club, is chairman of the Demo­cratic Count}- Committee in Indianapolis, his time must be awfully taken with placing and displacing the civic administration, and his continued activity in the N. D. Club is most commendable. Undergraduates of Indianapolis are getting a fine start with the publication of a little paper on the campus keeping the members of the Indian­apolis Club of Notre Dame posted as to the Club activities both on the campus and in the Iiome city. Joe ilcNamara, '2S, who writes sports for this magazine when the Editor threatens him sufficiently, is editor of the new publication, a mimeographed edition- of more than passing interest. 
CEXTKAL OHIO Ray Eicheniaub and Francis X .Finneran are putting Central Ohio in motion with a showing of the moving pictures on the night of Feb. 16, from which, the Editor hopes, air mail or a magic carpet, will transport there to Akron for the 17th. The demand for the films has been most gratifying and the Editor, who is cameraman, director, producer, in fact all but consumer, prom­ises rapid development of bigger and better, pic­tures as a reward. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
DETROIT 
George Koch, Secretar>-of- the Detroit Club, brings the glad word that Detroit is planning a big stag for the near future. George inquired about the films and the Editor hopes that the after-account of the affair will number these bits of campus -activities and scenes on the pro­gram. Detroit is planning to have the Glee Club appear there in the Spring and is working on that proposition now. From the success of the Club as detailed elsewhere in this issue, it will boom the Detroit stock if they carry out their plans. 

>EW TOKK CITY New Tork announced .a Valentine Party for Feb. 13, with dinner at 7:30 and entertainment and dancing during and after. Tou were to come with your Valentine to 2S East C3rd St. Jim Hayes, who is publicizing 5th Avenue, and you have all heard of the thoroughfare, is chairman of this party. Weekly luncheons at 22 E. 3Sth St., con­tinue to win favor. The Editor lias been asked to speak at th^ Xational Catholic Alumni Federation Convention in Xew Tork in April and warns the Xew Tork outfit to keep busy in the meantime, as he will probably have to fall back on their treasury to get on the job at this end again. What with the Convention at the "Waldorf. 
S.VX AXTOXIO 

The efforts of the X. D. men in San Antonio is detailed in the report of the Glee Club concert. They are about to organize into a real Clu'o, according to Menger's most recent letter. If the Club carries on as it materialized at the time of the Concert, there is no doubt as to the per­petual prominence of the Alma Slater in the great Southwest. 
LOS ANGELES THE ALUilXUS unfortunately did not get the new officers of the Los Angeles Club listed until the present issue. Ray Daschbach, ex-'O-J, formerly of Pittsburgh, is leading the Club at present. Eugene Kennedy, who as once reported is hitting on all six in both tlie banking business and the movies, is the new Secretary. He hasn't been ter­ribly efliusive yet, [got that word from Cliff 
•Ward's Fort AVayne letter], but he has time before his term is up. LoS Angeles had a part in the Glee Club concert that enabled the boys to put over the trip and certainly introduced a different Xotre Dame to the "West. It is only natural that with Slip Madigan, Clipper Smith, Adam "Walsh, Joe Boland, Gene Murphy, George Philbrook, Max Houser, and several others, coach­ing out there that they think of Xotre Dame as a coaching school the year round. 
[Editor's Xote: The bad news in the following letter from Sr. Eleanore is regretted by the Editor as much as anyone, but frankness is better than bankruptcy, and the suggestion, even if car­ried through, would not go into effect before next September. Tou will understand the reasons, especially those of you connected with the publi­cations of our schools, why magazines do not ordi­narily pay, even with subscriptions. The Editor wishes you would write Sr. Eleanore your reactions and suggestions, as the wish of THE ADU5IXTJS is to build up the "Women's Club, and not to do anything that would hamper it. The suggestion has been made that a great deal of expense for the religious could be saved by subscribing by com­munities rather than individuals.] 
WOSIEX'S CLUB 
By Sister M. Eleanore, C.S.C, President. 

So many kind letters have come to me during the last few months from the various members of the Women's Club that I wish first of all to say my thank you for them. I have just one fault to find with them: there was practicallly noth­ing at all in the way of news about members, v.-hich could be used for the "women's page in the ALUMNUS. Xot enough news has as yet come in to make up even one page. Xow, please, remember that lights are forbidden to be hid under bushelss and send us Some items. 
Miss Semortier has been working very hard on the compilation of a directory for us. The plan of it is something like this: The summer school bulletins have been examined to secure a list of the students eligible for membership according to the constitution. Unfortunately, the only infor­mation available from this source is the names of the students, their city and state. The officr files are being examined to obtain more definite information concerning the exact address. "When this examination is finished the religious members are to be listed according to communities. These lists will be sent out with a list of those Sisters whose communities are not known, in hope that they may be located through friends. Communica­tions will also be sent to the lay members in order to verify addresses and possible changes in names. "When all these technical details have been made as correct as possible, a directory will be published, Avhich will likely contain also a copy of the constitution. 
Xov.- we come to a very practical difficulty. How shall we finance this undertaking. Sugges­tions are in order. "We do not want to make the price of the directorj- prohibitively high. Miss Semortier suggests that as there are many lay members from South Bend and its neighborhood the customarj- bridge party might be launched in that city. "Will some of you please get in touch with Miss Semortier in regard to this, to decide whether it is a feasible undertaking. And will a sufficient number of the members be willing to pur­chase the directory to make its publication prac­ticable? "We can get a possible estimate of the cost of printing, which will determine the price, only after the material is all prepared. 
Having such a sublime irresponsibility toward money that I lost my purse on the way to the novitiate and had to borrow the necessary funds to finish my journey, I feel a bit unjustly treated, now that I must assume certain financial respon­sibilities. The saddest letter in all the world came to me the other day from the office of the alumni. If I had sufficient artistic ability I should draw 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
you an eloquent picture of the way in which the poor little thing put its head down on my none-too­sympathetic shoulder and wept because the alumni association is not able to support the women's club in the style to which it has become accustomed. Dear fellow members, that poor little letter actu­ally told me that we shall have to pay for our subscriptions to the ALUMNUS, at the rate of two dollars a year. That august magazine costs a pretty sum of money, I am told and it simply can not be sent to several hundred of us free. Of course the letter never even hinted that we are not obliged to subscribe; for as you will agree, a failure to subscribe on the part of any of us is simply unmentionable in polite society. 
Xow do send us some suggestions and some news items. I never knew before Just how a radio broadcaster feels when ho is not at all cer­tain that any one is listening in. Of course the obvious retort might be that the mere matter of an audience makes small difference when the broadcaster is of the feminine gender. In this case, however, I am merely the speaker for llr. Arm­strong; and ho has made me understa'nd that it win be ."iomewhat of the nature of tragedy to have this message go into the unanswering void. You all should read that sad letter which he wrote to me. Mark Anthony could easily have composed the preface to it. 
Though the meditation book assures me that the first month of the New Tear has gone for­ever, I wish to extend to you all the best and happiest of wishes for 192S. May God bless you and your work during this and all your years. 

UNIVERSITY OFFICES MOVED 
A central bureau containing the offices of many of the administrative officers of the University is under construction in the old Brownson refectory. The bureau, which will bo modern in every detail, will be com­pleted March 1. 
Eegistration, long a problem at Notre Dame, will be efficiently handled in the new offices. Hereafter, a student will be able to enter a door in the rear of the Administra­tion building, complete his registration at the series of twelve windows at the front of the new bureau, and leave at a door that opens under the steps leading to Bro^\^lson hall. The long porch at the rear of the building will serve as a protection to the students waiting in line during bad weather. 
The remodeled refectory will be so ar­ranged that it will lend itself to super­vision by an office manager. Aside from partitions in front of the large room, and the private offices, the bureau will be open and the offices separated by rails. Mail for the entire office can be handled by one person. 
Efficiency marks the arrangement of the new bureau. The left side of the large room, as viewed from the corridor in the center front of the room, will be occupied by a row of windows set in a partition, by the private offices of the registrar and the direc­tor of studies, by a students' waiting room, and by the clerical forces of the director cf studies. 
A counter extending across from the office of the treasurer to that of the secre­tary will be situated at about the center rear of the room. 
A general conference room to be used for faculty meetings and the like mil oc­cupy a large space at the front of the room at the right. Across.a small corridor from this room mil be ei-ected a partition which will set off an office and a waiting room for the prefect of discipline. 
A central telephone switchboard and a bureau of information will be housed in a small room next to the office of the prefect of discipline. Adjoining this room, toward the back of the bureau, will be found a mimeogi-aphing and mailing room. 
An indirect lighting system will be a feature. Conduits are being placed in the floor to be used in connection with electric bookkeeping machines, and the like. Fur­ther, each office will be equipped -with a private telephone. 
Everything has been done to preserve the historic old paintings on the walls of the former refectory, according to Father Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, assistant dean of the College of Engineering who is play­ing an active part in the remodeling of the old dining hall. These paintings of famous churches are the work of the uncle of Pro­fessor Francis Ackerman of the Mechan­ical Drawing department. 

DR. NIEUWLAND LECTURES 

At a recent meeting of the Organic Sym­posium of the American Chemical Society at Columbus, Ohio, Eev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, professor of organic Chemistry, pre­sented a paper covering his researches on the "Mechanism of Catalytic Reactions of jVcetylene." Father Nieuwland is Councilor of the St. Joseph "Valley section of the A. 
S. C, and is nationally known for his work in the field of organic chemistry. 


EDITORIAL 
On the inside front cover, and now once more, your attention is called to the ap­proach of Universal Notre THE NIGHT! Dame night. The Night will be held as close to its previous observances as possible. Plans are being completed as rapidly as possible and the March Alumnus will cai-ry the date and many other announcements of interest. 
Your Club officers will be informed fully concerning the program. But in many Clubs the officers need to be reminded by the members at large. That is the object of this note. Every Club owes it to Notre Dame to hold some observance of the Night when Notre Dame alumni have established the beautiful custom of honoring as a single body their University. Members and offi­cers are equally responsible. 
The Night will probably be around the third week of April. Monday, April 23rd, has been proposed. If there are other sug­gestions, send them in immediately. The Alumni Office is working on plans to unify the meetings, but the Clubs will be left largely on their own responsibility to or­ganize their programs. Plans should be begun NOW. 
* V * 

No editorial comment in an alumni mag­azine is complete without the melancholy dirge of poverty. One con-FINANCES soling thought to the officers 
is that many of the greatest achievements began in a similar uphill man­ner. Isabella pawned her jewels. The Pil­grims sold their comparatively happy homes in Holland. Genius frequently finds its inspiration in privation. 
Consolation lessens with time, however, and the realization that Notre Dame is passing from the early, budding stage of organization. The ability of the Associa­tion to function is rather evident in the few things it has been able to attempt. It is time that the talents peculiar to alumni organization are subsidized by understand­ing patrons. Isabella won immortality in history and Spain untold material wealth from her patronage of Columbus. The Pil­grims won the freedom they sought and undreamed of fame for their sacrifice. The birthplaces, physical and mental, of genius, are marked for all time. Support of worth­while projects is not without its own re­ward. 
The Association is in financial straits. An article in this issue outlines plans for overcoming the difficulties with honor to all concerned. Read the article, "An Oppor­tunity For the Clubs," and when your offi­cers propose action to you (or when you propose action to them), see that action is taken. 
BROTHER CAJETAN, C.S.C, DEAD 

Brother Cajetan, C.S.C, 72, and for near­ly forty-six years prefect of the minim de­partment of the University of Notre Dame, died Wednesday night, January 25th, at the Community House, Notre Dame. He had been in failing health for the past two years. On this account in October, 1927, he was forced to resign his post as prefect of St. Edward's Preparatory school at No­tre Dame. 
He is •widely known among the alumni because of his long connection with this branch of the University, many of the No­tre Dame men having attended the minim department. 
Brother Cajetan was born in Avon, N. Y., June 15, 1855, and in 1882 entered the Congregation of the Holy Cross. From the time of his reception he was closely con­nected with the juvenile preparatory school. Held in high regard, love and esteem by a host of friends, the announcement of the death of Brother Cajetan will be received vnth regret. Funeral services for the ven­erable religious were held at 8:00 o'clock Friday morning from Sacred Heart church followed by interment in the Community cemeteiy. The Rev. William Connor, C.S. C, superior of the Community house offi­ciated. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
George Keogan, Coach 
Big Ten Official, Sports Wnter, Editorial Staff S. B. Nexus-Times. 
The University of Notre Dame's basket­ball teams, under the guidance of Coach George E. Keogan have cut swaths of vic­tory through the most formidable basket-. ball belts of the nation. Notre Dame, for years famed as the producer of champion­ship football teams, has, for the past three years been a producer of championship basketball teams as well. ­
Coming to Notre Dame when basketball held a position of minor importance in re­lation to other sports. Coach Keogan has placed the name of Notre Dame at the pinnacle of basketballdom of the nation. 
Twenty years ago basketball at Notre Dame was in its infancy and the athletic officials placed little stress on the sport that now attracts the eyes of millions of adherents in the United States. Despite the fact that basketball enjoyed a rapid growth in popularity games were scheduled for Notre Dame quintets with the full knowledge that the Irish institution would possibly lose the majority of the games played during the season and the athletic officials were well pleased if the athletes would eke out a narrow margin of victory in at least a couple of contests each season. 
Four years ago a new man came to Notre Dame to direct the basketball activ­ities. This man faced the problem of giv­ing the University of Notre Dame its first real basketball teams and to accomplish this great feat he had a dearth of real basketball material. To the surprise of the student body and the alumni of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, this man, George 
E. Keogan, accomplished his aim and placed the South Bend institution of learn­ing in the race for championship honors in basketball. 
In the year 1925, the University of Notre Dame won the title of Western champions. This great feat was repeated in 1926 un­der the tutelage of Coach Keogan. The wily little basketball coach who forsook dentistry to follow the fortunes of an ath­letic coach has placed a man on the mjrth­ical all-western teams each year since he has had charge of basketball at Notre Dame. 
Coach Keogan has developed some of the gi-eatest basketball players in the middle west, including Johnny Nyikos, Louis Con­roy, Clem Crowe, Noble Kizer, Eay 
(Bucky) Dahman, Vince McNally. Among these men, Nyikos, Kizer, Conroy and Dah­man have received recognition when all-western teams were selected. 
Despite the fact that he had lost such foi-midable basketball players as Captain Nyikos, Louis Conroy, Bucky Dahman.. and Vince McNally from his great basket-" ball combination of last season. Coach Keogan now has one of the strongest teams in the middle west and a team that bids fair to be among the claimants of the western title again. 
Keogan has enjoyed a remarkable rec­ord as a basketball mentor. During his re­gime at Notre Dame basketball teams have played 98 games; of this number 79 vic­tories were credited against 19 defeats. Six­teen of these nineteen defeats were regis­tered during the first two seasons under Keogan's directorship. In the last 50 games, the Irish have lost only four games. Teams scoring victories against Notre Dame in the past fifty games were Franklin (two games), Northwestern and Michigan State. 
Notre Dame's basketball schedules are never 'hand picked'—some of the strong­est teams in the country being booked to oppose the Irish cagers. Some of the teams to play Notre Dame this season are five Big Ten teams, Princeton, and Pennsylva-. nia, t\vo of the strongest fives in the east­ern league, Carnegie Tech and Pittsburgh, leader in the Tri-State league and some of the most dangerous Indiana quintets, including Butler and Wabash. In the sec­ond game of the season, Notre Dame met 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
and defeated Illinois Wesleyan, champions of the Little Nineteen conference for t\vo •seasons. 
Keogan-coached teams have won 22 out of 27 games played against Western Con­ference quintets. Four of the five defeats were recorded in the first two years of the Keogan regime; Indiana, Minnesota and Illinois turning in victories over Notre Dame in the season of 1923-24. Minneso­ta again won in the season 1924-25. Of the fourteen games with Western Conference teams since 1924, Notre Dame has lost only one game—^that to Northwestern by a two-point margin about six weeks ago. Notre Dame has turned in victories over the following Big Ten teams this season: Iowa, Minnesota, Northwestern and Wis­consin. Notre Dame's great victory over the University of Wisconsin, is one of Coach Keogan's greatest victories of the season. The Badgers were touted as being far su­perior to the Notre Dame quintet in the defensive and goal-shooting departments. In the Notre Dame-Wisconsin game, the Badgers scored only two field goals dur­ing the entire game, while Notre Dame garnered seven goals from the field. 
Some of the nationally-known basket­ball teams to fall before the Keogan style of play are: Kansas Aggies, Mercer, Creighton, Princeton, Pennsylvania, Pitts­burgh, Carnegie Tech, Illinois Wesleyan, St. Thomas, Drake, Minnesota, Iowa, Wis­consin, Illinois, Northwestern, etc. 
During his 16 years of coaching, Keo­gan's men have played 301 games, winning 254 and losing 47. His teams have annexed nine championships. 
Keogan's peculiar style of basketball play has won wide recognition during the past three years. His teams are rated as being as strong offensively as they are de­fensively, which is a hard combination for any opposing team to defeat. Keogan's style of play is as widely known now as Dr. Meanwell's style of game was known eight years ago. Several mid-western high schools have adopted the Keogan style of game in a successful manner. 
Basketball at Notre Dame, seems to have taken a firm foothold and 'seems des­tined to share popularity honors with foot­ball as taught by the inimitable Knute K. Eockne. 


THE NEW CAPTAIN 
Following is a sketch of Fred Miller, 

1928 captain of the Fighting Irish: 
Fred Miller, who 
was elected as cap­
tain of the 1928 No­
tre Dame football 
team, has won the 
praise of football 
critics in all parts 
of the country by 
his work for the 
past two seasons as 
left tackle on Knute 
Rockne's elevens. 
FRED MILLER In addition to be­

ing one of the best tackles in the history of Notre Dame foot­ball, Miller ranks high as a student, and is popular with the student body as a whole. 
In his sophomore year. Miller was presi­
dent of his class. 
Before coming to Notre Dame he took his preparatory work at the Milwaukee Country day school. There he distinguish­ed himself in three branches of athletics— footbaU, baseball and basketball. He played each sport for three years as a var­sity man, and during his last two years on the football team, he was the captain. 
On the prep team, Miller played fullback. He was a guard in basketball and a pitcher on the baseball squad. 
His honors were not confined to athletics alone, however, and in his last year at prep school he was elected president of the athletic association and vice president of the student council. 
He attended the Milwaukee school from 1921 to 1924. In the fall of 1925 he en­tered Notre Dame, and was a member of the freshman football squad of that year. He played in the backfield at that time, but the following fall Rockne, impressed by his ranginess and weight (he tips the scales near the 200-mark), began to make a line­man of him. Miller made good, and when Joe Boland broke his leg in the game with Minnesota in the fall of 1926, Miller took his place and held it as a regular through­out the remainder of the season. Last fall he again claimed the berth, and his work stamped him as of ail-American calibre. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
J. p. MCNAMARA 




ATHLETICS 
BASKETBALL 
The full schedule for 1927-2S follows: Dec. 5—^Armour Institute 12, N.D. 37. Dec. 9—Illinois Wesleyan 23, N.D. 40. Dec. 12—Iowa at Iowa City 20, N.D. 23. Dec. 20—^Northwestern at N.D. 22, N.D. 28. Deo. 23—llinn at Minneapolis IS, N.D. 2G. Dec. 29—Northw. at Evanston, 25, N.D. 23. Dec. 31—Princeton at N.D., 24, N.D. 35. Jan. 7—Penn. at Philadelphia, 2S, N.D. 30. Jan. 13—Franklin at Notre Dame. 24, N.D. 3C. Jan, 17—^Wabash at Notre Dame, 19, N.D. 30. Jan. 21—Drake at Des Jloines, 19, N.D. 29. Jan. 28—Jlichigan State at N.D.. 25, N.D. 29. Feb. 3—Slich. State at East Lans'g 2G, N.D. 16 Feb. 7—Wisconsin at Madison, 14, N.D. 21. Feb. 11—Butler at Notre Dame. Feb. 17—Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh. Feb. IS—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. Feb. 23—Marquette at Milwaukee. Feb. 25—Drake at Notre Dame. Feb. 29—^Wabash at Crawfordsville. 
Mar. 3—Marquette at Notre Dame. Mar. 7—Butler at Indianapolis. 

FEANKLIN Coach George Keogan smiled a smile. Perhaps he was remembering "time was." Griz Wagner was remembering also—^but Griz was not smiling. The opening whistle having sounded the Irish took the toss-up and successive scor­ings by Bray, Colerick and Crowe in machine-gun order put them into the lime­light. Franklin considered the matter and then began the uphill battle vnth. a spark­ling game of court repartee so that the lecture period found Notre Dame on the long end of a 16 to 14 count. Smith, Bray and Crowe were the individual luminaries in this frame wth Freeman and Green looking best for the visitors due to their adeptness in sinking long shots. Nine field goals and two foul shots were the result of the whirlwind that they tell us was Notre Dame in the second twenty minutes of that tussle. Donovan, Smith and Crowe started the downfall of the do\vnstaters and every other player added his bit. It was a beautiful night for an 
N. D., man when the final gun barked and 
the gang "was way out front." Donovan, because of his all-round per­
formance, Crowe and Colerick because of their sharpshooting and Bray and Smith because of their floor work are hereby nom-, inated for the honors of the tussle. Along with them you can rank Green, Coy and 
Freeman who put up a gallant, withal a vain fight for the visiting quintet. 
WABASH Pete Vaughan of goal post fame, brought five highly-spirited basketball players rep­resenting Wabash to the new gym and after forty minutes of desperate team play on both sides the gentlemen who manipu­late the new score board announced that Coach George Keogan's Flyin' Fenians had won again, this time 30 to 19. The play started oif with a rush from the passing standpoint but the timers had ticked five minutes into eternity before either team disturbed the netting. The captain Joe Jachym looped a brace of beautiful shots and the Irish were off. They pranced into a lead and gradually began to slip into a clearly established lead. At every point the Wabash team fought hard and in the early minutes of play they matched point for point but toward the fag end on the initial half they weakened and Notre Dame took on a substantial lead. At the opening of the last half Vaughn's lads stepped out and for the next twenty minutes fought toe to toe with their fast travelling teammates. Frank Crowe, Gold and Blue forward de luxe, cornered high-point honors with a quai-tet of field tosses that were hooked in decisive moments. Bob Newbold, Captain Joe Jachym and Bray also performed to advantage for Notre Dame. Wabash had Thorneberg, Broosand Groves as the big thi-ee that did most to make the evening interesting for Notre Dame. 
DRAKE 
Number ten in the Keoganite line of vic­

tories came when the quintet packed its 
suits and journeyed all the way to Des 
Moines, Iowa, for the sole purpose of 
showing the Drake University five the bet­
VARSITY '27-'2S—FRONT L.R.—DONOVAN, CROWE, NEWBOLD. CAPT. JACHYM, COLERICK, BRAY. SUnTH, VOGELWEDE. REAR—MGR. JACK IGOE, M'CARTHY. laZER, COPPS, FORSEE, O'XEILL, HARRINGTON, HAMILTON, DAILEY, COACH KEOGAN. 
ter way the game is to be played. A capa­city crowd jammed the doors to see the Hawkeyes take the count 29 to 19. A five-point lead, collected in the first few min­utes of play, was an advantage never taken from the Fighting Irish and with a fioor-play that was almost flawless in its execution they sailed smoothly to the win­ner's berth. 
Jachym and McCarthy at forward, Col­erick at center. Bray and Smith at guards, started the melee for the Gold and Blue and this aggregation played through the entire first half to bring the score to 13 to 7 at intermission time. 
The second half opened with a rush—the Notre Dame team providing said rush of course. Jachym, Smith and Colerick sank tvvo-pointers in rapid succession before the lowans realized what was going on. The count now read Notre Dame, 19; Drake, 7, so Coach Keogan began substituting. A whole new team eventually found itself on the floor and its scintillating defense tac­tics were the features of the game from this point forward. 
The Blue Devils deserve a world of com­mendation for their dogged fight and for their courageous spirit that was evident in every minute of play. Meyers, Barnes and Bowes were the individual luminaries for the opposition while Colerick, Captain Jachym and Ed Smith were the more prominent in the Notre Dame lineup. 
mCHIGAN STATE 

Three overtime periods adequately im­pressed Notre Dame fans ^\^th the skill of the Michigan State team when the latter came to our house to play. A score of 29 to 25, \\ath the Irish on the t^venty-nine end impressed the State rooters of much the same thing, regarding the Fenians. 
The crowd that gathered in the new Notre Dame gym for the battle was a trib­ute to Keogan and his team—^liardly a fan attended in the expectation of a fierce combat. But right from the start the visi­tors showed signs of having scoring eyes that would make the melee interesting, and they did. After twenty minutes of furious playing the Irish were just barely holding a slight lead and •with the advent of the second frame both teams began breaking all the knowTi speed ordinances. At the finish of the regular playing time they were tied; at the end of the first over­time period the same was true; then Michigan State scored first in the second overtime, but Notre Dame collected a vital two points a minute later and it was not until the third extra round that the 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Keogan squad broke away and ran the score to 29 to 25 where it stood at the end of that inning. 
Every man on the Celt combine played a gi"eat game but special mention should be made of Frank Crowe's playing. For the visitors VanDevanter was the moving spirit. In fact he was easily one of the best players seen on the local hardwood all seasn. 
SECOND MICHIGAN STATE GAME 
Having had a taste of the State team a few nights before the Notre Dame five en­trained for East Lansing with full knowl­edge of what they were up against. But it was to take more than that. The State aggregation, playing on its home floor was not to be denied and proceeded to lift the Keogan scalp to the tune of 26-16. 
VanDeventer was going at top speed and his four other playmates as well. They slipped into high along about the mid-way mark of the first half and from that time on they were headed for victoiy. The stanch Gold and Blue basketeers put up a valiant fight, they gave everything they had, but on this one occasion Fortune, who had been sitting on the bench with them all year, was infatuated with the - home talent of East Lansing. 
WISCONSIN The old oaken bucket,—^i-ather the iron 
bound bucket that hangs by the wall up Madison way was given some special splashes on the occasion of the invasion of the Irish army. Throughout the year the papers thereabouts had been engaging in predictions as to the count that Doc Mean­well's team would use as a crepe for Doc Keogan's lads. With the event known as the Michigan State defeat they tore off the lid and all Wisconsin looked forward with glee to the meeting. 
To add to the optimistic view they had heard that our stand-by, "Long John" Col­erick, was out of the game as indeed he was. So when Coach Keogan was forced to start Hamilton at center they sat back in their seats and prepared for the can-y­ing out "On Wisconsin" on the basketball floor. 
But the Celts were on to Wisconsin, to Meanwell et al, and they had done some highly independent thinking of their own. Consequently when the opening whistle blew Hamilton gave the Wisconsin fans a sui-prise by taking the tip-off right from in front of the towering Badger pivot man. That was surprising. Hamilton tossed the ball to Jachym who passed to Crowe who proceeded to drop it through the lace for two points. That was more impressing. Not a Wisconsin man had left his position as yet and the score-board read Notre Dame 2, Wisconsin 0. 

FRESHMAN SQUAD, '27-'28 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
From then on the story was just one of a series of such surprise parties given for the benefit of Doctor Meanwell who showed great anxiety up in his Eomeo and Juliet perch over the score board.. Captain Jachym, Frank Crowe, Bray, Smith and last but not least, Hamilton, played i-ing ai-ound the rosy with the Big Ten team's chances. They passed, they shot baskets, they resolved themselves into a granite defense for twenty minutes of basketball that truly was a thing of beauty. Wisconsin scored just two field goals in forty minutes of play. When the smoke had cleared away the big crowd of Wisconsin i-ooters had to admit th-'. thej' Ju-ifi seen a M'ouder Team ]jer­lorm. The score board bore them out in this admission for the count read: Notre Dame 21; Wisconsin 14. 
MudAille just wasn't in it with the joy that went the round of the dining halls the next day. Coach Keogan and every mem­ber of the team deserves special laudation for the splendid showing. 
TEACK Coach John Nicholson doesn't always be­lieve the dopesters , . . but the doj)esters are beginning to believe in Coach Nichol­son. And well they may, for when a team comes from the bulrushes of the Land of Dope and sends adequate shivers up and down the spinal colums of a team that by all laws of that land should have swamped the aforementioned, then that's achieve­ment.. Notre Dame dropped its inaugural track event of the season. That's not news. Eveiyone expected that. But Notre Dame was beaten by only three slim points, and up until the last event was leading by two of those.—That is news. News because the pre-program prognostications had not even given the Fenians a chance to come close. The embroglio that ended Northwestern 44, Notre Dame 41 was decided by the final event of the meet, a rip-snortin' mile relay that brought the spectators to their feet. The thing that folks are still talking about was the sensational manner with which Mr. Jack Elder covered the sixty yards marked out for him. They should. Elder, whose cognomen should be amended to read "Jack-Eabbit," tied th e worlds 
record established by Loren Murchison in 
1923 by finishing in six and two-tenths 
seconds. His was the headline activity of 
the evening. Starting like a shot from a 
cannon he gathered momentum mth eveiy 
stride—seemingly he was not running but 
hitting the ground as hard as possible with 
his legs,—and he finished well in advance 
of Hermonson and Wilkins of Northwestern 
who were just barely able to nose fighting 
Joe Morrissey of Notre Dame out of the 
honor places. 
Tlie abiding star of the setto was "Tiny" Lewis, visiting ace, Avho garnered thirteen of his team's tallies single handed. His high point was reached when he tossed the shot forty-six feet, eight and one-half inches, to break the gym record. Another record went a glimmering when Droege­mueller of the Purple soared thirteen feet in the pole vault. Unfortunately neither of these marks will displace the present gym record howe%'er, as they were made in exhibition trys after the respective events were over as far as the meet itself was concerned. 
In the actual competition Droegemuellsr tied with Tom Bov of Notre Dame at the height of twelve feet, six inches. In the high jump Captain Joe Griffin tied with Eettig, a visitor, for first honors, the bar resting at six feet two inches. Both Grif­fin and Doan, Irish hurdlers, were disquali­fied in the high hurdles when they tipped over more than the privileged number of standards. Prior to this the Brown broth­ers did their bit for Notre Dame when William won the mile jaunt in 4:32 and John took the t%vo mile event in 9:53. In both of these the Celts scored a grand -slam. 
The meet, clearly won by the great Northwestern team that took six of the ten first places, demonstrated that Nichol­son had been far more successful that even his heartiest well-wishers had hoped and gave promise of gi-eat things that he may be able to do in track circles for Notre Dame when given time. His lads, that just a month ago were the rawest of raw material, have taken on a polish that is en­couraging. 
Summary: 60 yard dash—^W^on by Elder, Notre Dame; second, Hei-mansen, Northwestern; 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
third, Wilkins, Northwestern. Time—:6:2. 
(Equals world record established by Loren Murchison in 1923.) 
60 yard high hurdles—Won by Lewis, Northwestern; second, Morris, Northwest­ern. Third place not allowed, two hurdles knocked down by Griffin, Notre Dame. Time—: 8. 
440 yard run—Won by McGauley, Notre Dame; second, Bloomberg, Northwestern; thii-d, Eeidy, Notre Dame. Time—:54.8. 
880 yard run—Won by Gorby, North­western; second, Abbott, Notre Dame; third, Fisher, Notre Dame. Time—2:00. 
Mile run—Won by W. Brown, Notre Dame; second, Brennan, Notre Dame; third, Schleichert, Notre Dame. Time—4:23. 
Two mile run—^Won by J. Brown, Notre Dame; second, Vaichulis, Notre Dame; third, Hopkins, Notz-e Dame. Time—9:53. 
Pole vault — Won by Droegemueller, Northwestern, Lewis, Northwestern, and Bov, Notre Dame, (all tied.) Height—12 feet, six inches. 
High jump—^Won by Bettig, Northwest­ern, and Griffin, Notre Dame (tie); third, Welchons, Notre Dame. Height—six feet, two inches. 

Shot-put—^Won by Lewis, Northwestern; second, Karstens, Northwestern; third, Gagge, Northwestern. Distance—45 feet, four and three-foui-ths inches. 
One mile relay—^W^on by Northwestern (Wilkins, Fox, Bloomberg, Gorby.) Notre Dame team (Abbott, Eeidy, McGauley, Kelly.) Time—3:34,6. 
Final Score: Noi-thwestem, 44; Notre Dame, 41. Referee and starter—Tom Jones, Wis­consin. 

THE ALUMN 
3IAUKIAGES Frank Steel writes from Akron that ART KEENY, '22, and DAX M'GOWAX, •2-1, "jumpert -from the singular to the plural" recently. But Trank was Stopped before further details lilt tlie paper and THE ALUSINTJS has nothing more en­lightening to offer. Speaking of the difficulty of getting news. The ALUMNUS hows its head a trifle to announce the marriage of JI.\RK NOt..A.X last June. But the following confession of. a conspiracy of the press, and a certain geographical obscurity, not to men­tion Jlr. Nolan's unnatural reticence, are offered in extenuation: [The item is from the Gilbert, Minn, paper,] Contrary to popular theories concerning news­paper men, it has just been abundantly proved that a newspaper man can keep a secret. In or­der, however, that the chief of police might prop­erly collect a small wager made with a prom­inent man concerning the subject of this article, the time has come when tlie editor must confirm the suspicions of his friends, and tell the truth. Mark Nolan, son of Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Nolan, was united in marriage on June 11 with Miss Ann Murray, daughter, of Mr. and Jlrs. 'William ilurray of Eveleth. The ceremony was performed by Fr. E. J. Walsh at Our Lady of Lourdes church, "Virginia. The editor of The Herald was bribed to profound silence in the matter by being tendered the position of best man. 3IrS. Nolan is a graduate of the Eveleth schools, later attending St. Theresa's college, the Jlinne­apolis School of Art and the University of Minne­sota, finishing from the latter place in 1924. She 
is a member of the Alpha Chi Omega sorority. 

Mr. Nolan is a graduate of the local schools and tlie University of 2Votre Dame, and at the present time is serving Gilbert as village attorney. Mr. and Mrs. Nolan will make their home at 52 Summit Street. 
Another '24 wedding. Jlr. and Mrs. Philip F. Manning announce the marriage of their sister Lila to Jlr. Paul George Funk on Saturday the fourth of February. Elgin, III. Messages would probably reach Paul at 916 N. Spring St., Elgin. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Edgerton Crosbie announce the marriage of their daugliter Catherine Jackie to Mr. Walter Brian Moran, '24, on Tuesday, Feb­ruary 7, 192S, Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
PEKSOXAIS 1893 JI. L. JOSLYN, president of the Joslyn Mfg. and Supply Co., Chicago, is enjoying a trip around the world at the present time, according to a letter from his office. Judge CHARLES B. DECH.4.NT of the Court of Common Pleas, Lebanon, O., recently dropped a note to Prof. E. J. M.\URUS. The picture of Very Rev. JAMES BURNS, C. S. C, in last month's ALUMNUS recalled old Notre Dame days to Judge Dechant. 18»4 HUGH A. O'DONNELL is busy in the interests of Notre Dame as usual. He is Secretary of the National Catholic Alumni Federation and Is look­ing forward to a big Notre Dame showing at the annual convention of the Federation in New York in April. -Art Haley, Business Manager of Atli­
letics, and the Alumni Secretary have been in­Coach Harper to let me play. 'I want you ne.>:t vited to speak at the convention. year,' he said, 'and I'm afraid you'll hurt your 
shoulder.' He thumped it. 
1304 
The Alumni Office was disappointed Jan. 27 and 2S when a. proposed visit from WALTER DALii', of Portland, failed to materialize. Jlr. Daly ex­pected to be in Chicago on those dates and thought he might be able to run over to Notre Dame for a visit. 
1!)12 THOMAS A. J. DOCKWEILER has been in corre­spondence with the ofCice in connection with the nomination of officers for 192S-9. He is chairman of one of the committees appointed by Pres. Murphy.. 

I91G Don Maxwell, in a column of the CHICAGO TRIBUXB, carried the following storj- which should be of interest to the men around 'IG. The night train from Mexico City to San Antonio carries only one Pullman and usually it is crowded. That night was no exception. The aisles were covered with handbags and a man could scarcely turn about in the smoking compartment. The majority of the berths had been reserved days ahead and there were two applicants for every lower left. All of the luckless passengers were attempting to win attention of the Pullman conductor. Several methods of approach proved faulty. VTG tried a new one. "X fellow should have played football to get anywhere in this scrimmage." -4nd for the first time the conductor, a husky Mexican, grinned. "The scrimmages at Notre Dame were tougher than this," he said. An hour later, after the aisles had been opened, the air had cleared a bit in the smoking room, and the train was coasting down through the mountains that encircle the capital of Mexico, Scnor Alfred Morales, the only Mexican to have made the first team at Notre Dame, told his story. '•Fifteen years ago my family was wealthy. We had a big ranch, thousands of head of cattle, and generally were accounted one of the pros­perous establishments around about our part of the countrj*. "Three of my kinsmen attended Notre Dame and seeing that I was a husky fellow, suggested that inasmuch as I'd make good football material my father couldn't do better than send me to Notre Dame. I entered school as a prep in 1911. That fall I made the Brownson Hall team. "In 1915 I captained the hall team and gained a reputaion as an end. I could scarcely wait for next season. No Mexican ever made a Nore Dame team and the fellows thought I had a good chance to establish the precedent. "Fall finally came, and although Coach Harper had two good men, veterans, playing end, he gave me a chance in the opening game, played in Cleve­land. I made good and figured I had a regular place. In the next game my shoulder popped out with It. The rest of my season I sat on the bench. "Finally, In the last game of the year, I begged 
" "Well coach,' I said, 'I have a feeling that 
this might by my last football game for Notre 
Dame. I'd like to play.' He sent me in. 
"When I went home next spring I found our 
family home in ruins. Our cattle had been driven 
off by the revolutionists, our ranch wrecked, and 
my father had fifty centavos in his pocket. 
never played another game in the United States." 
Notre Dame lost a possible All-American. 
We're sorry for that. But the Pullman company 
gained a whale of a conductor. 
We got our space. 
1917 
CHARLES W. BACHMAN, former football coach at Kansas State Agriculture College, a posi­tion which he held seven years and with decided success, has succeeded Harold L. "Tom" Sebring, resigned as head coach of the University of Florida, at Gainesvile, Fla. Everett Ton, ath­letic director of the Florida school, made the announcement Jan. 9. The ALUMNUS carried a previous announcement of Charley's resignation and his intention to change location for Mrs. Bachman's health. His actiuisition by the Florida school gives Notre Dame another strong man in the South and will probably boost Southern foot­ball considerably. With Sliller, Mehre and Crowley in Florida and Georgia, with Bachman, even the most sparsely settled Notre Dame territory is get­ting its N. D. atmosphere. 
The January issue of the HTDE PARK HERAL1> [Chicago] contained the following interesting item: 

Franlv H. Sweeney, for three years assistant manager of the Cooper-Carlton hotel, assumed the position of general manager J.anuary 1. He has made hundreds of friends in Hyde Park and vi­cinity, all 0/ whom join in wishing him a successful and happy New Tear. He Succeeds B. H. V.'eaver, who, during his two years in this position, ex­tended the wide influence and patronage of this famous hotel. Mr. Weaver expects to rest before carrying out his future plans. The following statement was issued Monday: 
"The Cooper-Carlton Hotel company will con­tinue the operation and management of the hotel with the present staff of employes, many of whom have been with the hotel since it was opened by the late Sherman T. Cooper." 
Dr. THOMAS O'HAGAN, LL. D., who has an article in next issue, has moved from Canada and is now located at St. Joseph's College, Adrian, Mich. 
1918 

MAURICE FLAHERTY, a law student in '17-'1S is now a Jesuit Scholastic at Seattle College and is pursuing courses in education at the University of Washingon. 
1919 

A letter from ART WBINRICH, formerly of Cleveland, who was called to his home in Bur­lington, la., by the death of his father about a year ago, states that his business affairs in Iowa are about closed and that he expects to return 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
to Cleveland or Chicago. Art met DICK LESLIE at the DRAKE-N. D. game. Dicit is living at Waverly, la., and managing his father's Grocery Company. 
1923 ONE HUNDRED BACK IN JUNE OF T^VENTY-EIGHT 

"ESIERT TOTH who arrived at the state of ,a lawyer via Chemistry and Litt-B. has crashed 
. through with a wonderful letter assuring us that he will be back in June. Emery is associated with John Cochrane in the practice of law with offices at 60S Home Bank Building, Toledo, Ohio. From another source we know that both John and Emery are doing very well and we know that Em must be busy because last fall was the first time he has been unable to return to a game since wo left school. 
BILL VOSS gazed out at the people of Chicago from the papers a short while ago. The long story that accompanied the picture told of the great work that Bill has done for Harvey, III. It is a truth that Bill is putting into practice methods of commerce that have made Iiim one of the out­standing business men of Harvey. And head of the Chamber of Commerce. , 
LOUIE DE SMET and TOM PLOUFP are going around slapping each other on tlie back and shout­ing "congratulations" and well they may for they are botli proud fathers of great big babies. 
FRANK AVALL.A.CE told some Two Million people of the Greatness of Rockne in an article that ap­peared in LIBERTY magazine entitled Rockne the Coac-maker. 
ED LENNON is just as strong a supporter of Ireland as ever, for he left the Banks of The Wa­bash to make a trip to Chicago that he might greet President Cosgrave of Ireland and iiear him tell of the great economic and commercial develop­ment that is going on across the sea. 
MAURICE DACY and BRUCE HOLMBERG art. no doubt painting the Big Town red for tiiey are botii soon to settle down in the sea of matrimony. 
FRANK KENNEDY, TOM LEE, FRED NEU and FOD COTTON have all promised • to be with the crowd back at the reunion in June and riglit tiiere j'ou have the nucleus for the greatest re­union any class ever held. 
EDDIE GOULD is being proclaimed as "Chica­go's Fastest Growing Florist." But we are in­clined to doubt the truth of it because EDDIE does not look to weigh a pound more than he did when he ran the half mile as a Freshman, 'tt'e will say, however, that DICK N.\SH is Chicago's Fastest Growing contractor. 
Tliese notes are for the most part about members of the class who are seen by your secretary at regular intervals. It is our wish to receive infor­mation from men ail over the country and above ail make arrangements to be among the HUNDRED who will be back in June." Johnny Montague, Sec. 
Joseph Nyikos, deputy prosecuting attorney of St. Joseph County, wai caught in tlie act of pass­ing cigars in the County building Jan. 20 and admitted he was celebrating the arrival of tlie first-born in his famil}'. 
Joan Helen Nyikos was born to Mr. and Mrs. 

Joseph Nyikos in St. Joseph's hospital. Little Miss 
Nyikos weighed in at eight pounds and seven 
ounces. 
The St. Josepli County Bar association, which 

has been favored by visits of the stork quite fre­
quently within the past six months, was extend­
ing its congratulations to the Nyikos family 
1924 

HUGH F. BLUNT, formerly associated with Edward A. Counihan, Jr., announces the opening of his law office at 614 Barrister's Hall, Pember­ton Square, Boston, JIass. 
•T. HENRY FANNAN is back in Rockford, 111., his home town, pursuing' the journalistic life. Henry's home address is 2216 "W. State St. 
The South Bend press recently contained the 

following information concerning SEYMOUR "WEIS­
BERGER: 
Seymour Weisberger has recently been admitted 

to tile bar and intends to engage in the general 
practice of law with offices at 401 Union Trust 
building. 
Jlr. Weisberger is a graduate of South Bend 

High school and for tlie past six and one-half 
years attended the University of Notre Dame. He 
received his A. B. degree in 1924 and then entered 
the college of law, in wliich he has studied for 
the past three years. 
While at Notre Dame, Mr. Weisberger was a memlier of the university debating team in 1923, 1924 and 1925, appearing in a number of inter­collegiate debates. He is also the recipient of a Barry medal for excellence in oratory. For the past two years he has been on the editorial staff of tile Notre Dame Lawyer. 
Similarly the Michigan City press yields the following write-up of ROBERT GLASSCOTT: 
Friends of Attorney Robert E. Glasscott, in announcing Mr. Glasscott's candidacy for the Re­publican nomination for prosecuting attorney, of Laporte county, see in his candidacy an opportu­nity to recognize a stalwart Republican and an able attorney. 
Mr. Glasscott has been active in the interests of tile Republican party since he finished his edu­cation and entered the practice of law, being at the present time treasurer of the Republican club of Michigan City. 
AS an attorney, he enjoys a substantial prac­tice and is kept busy with the various court mat­ters in which he is interested. He is a member of the Laporte County Bar association, the Mich­igan City Bar association and is admitted to prac­tice in the supreme and appellate courts of Ind­iana and the United States district court. He is treasurer of the local bar association, having been twice honored with the office. 
Robert E. Glasscott was born In Michigan City, the son of Mr. and Mrs. John J. Glasscott, life­time residents of the city. He is a graduate of the Michigan City public high school. His legal edu­cation was received at the University of Notre Dame, from which he received his degree and graduation with honors. He has been engaged actively in the practice of his profession nearly four years. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Mr .Glasscott is a member also of the American 
Bar association, the Indiana Bar association, the 
Rotarj- Club, the Elks and the Eagles. 
His name •vvill be filed for prosecuting attorney 
as soon as the nominations are open for the 
spring primaries. 
1925 A welcome letter from HARRY ilC GUIRE arrived last month, Harry is running OUTDOOR LIFE and OUTDOOR RECREATION, published by his father in Denver, and is living at the Uni­versity Club. Heavy duties on the magazines du­ring his father's absence on a vacation haven't kept Harry inactive and a one-act play "When the Ship Goes Down" appeared in the December issue of The DRAIIA.' JOE MEXGBR is putting more pep into X. D. activities around San Antonio than he ever put into talking Prof. Cooney out of duty. The result is that his companions, mostly '25, DIEL­MAN, HESS and XEEDHAM [if ilenger gets the credit it is because he is the faithful scribe of the organization and not because he doesn't give the rest of the quartet credit] are. going strong. They want the moving pictures down there to see whether Corby Hall has changed since they left. JACK SCALL.AN, who is occasionally respon­sible for some of the dope in this column, was down not long ago, but was just recovering from two weeks or so in Florida and didn't have any thing of particular appeal for the space. Jack is still with the Pullman Co., in Chicago, and going much more smoothly than many of its products. 
1926 JIM: 
This is JERRY HAYES writing! Right! I thought I'd be a stranger to you, Jim, but I'm glad you remember me. 

I have really been ashamed of the anaemic column in the -AX.UMXUS. But you understand I am not a school-teacher any longer, yve want to have that page a little stouter this month, so I am taking time out to send you some news which j-ou may be able to fashion into notes. Perhaps they're mossy, but really I have had no Letters whatever this year for the ALUMNUS. No doubt that is because of my poor stewardship. But the study of medicine is taxing. I have however, seen many of the boys in and around Chicago during the past month or so. Of course, the "mob" attended the U. S. C. game and it was great sport to meet wayward brother after prodigal son. It would take too long to list, and memory might fail me in recalling many of the boys I met .at the game [No, you're wrong! That is not the reason], but there are some of the class I see often or concerning whom an occa­sional note is wafted in my direction. 
John Tuohy, you know, is home from the west. John is a wonderful "ad" for the Southwest cli­mate. He'll be a man about town shortly and he may be reached at 42S W. Washington Boule­vard, Oak Park. Jimmie Ronan [he hid behind Xmas trees during the holidays ]may be found any day on the Fifth Floor of the Garrick 
Building [Randolph Street]. Tell the boys to drop 
in any time. There's lots of work to be done. 
Jimmie's name is on the door in gold—or if it 
isn't in gold, it ought to be—and in his office 
it's easj- to find a host of friends. 
I always meet George Hartnett or Jerry Mc­Dermott there. George is selling peanuts; Jerry— "ads," I believe. I told George to write to Tom Farrell, Jim Silver or Rodge Nolan for pointers, on the peanut game, but he insists he sells them in large quantities—by the carload. But then' Tom and Jim and Rodge also sold them by the carload at those football games. John Roth is living with George, and "Honest John" Sweeney Avith Jerry. There is evidently a lot of caretakingr to be done, but I don't know who is taking care of whom. Dutch O'Day, considering that he is now a benedict, fortunately finds a little time to visit Ronan. Dutch, some time ago, had a hard time-fighting oft the pneumonia hugs [Jim Stack would say pneumococci], but he is now up, around and at 'em. TVe were speaking of peanuts before—John McMullen, I understand, is now-selling potatoes .after having a splendid football season with Chet "Wynne at Creighton. I hope to run into John some day and I'll get the right dope. I'll let you know whether he's selling them by the carload or lyonnaise. Lew Cody also appears on the scene every now and then. He is still with the Federal Securities and is about to open the new offices on Wacker Drive. Les Lovier is also in Chicago. He's working hard at the law. And Les is working hard—believe it or not! He's at Northwestern with Bob Dixon and with Hayes Murphy and Joe Sullivan of last year's class. Art Bidwell, as you know, is an official with the Bentley-Murray concern. Let Art be your "racing form," He can explain the machinations of all kinds of windows and stalls— racing or jai alai. Frank Bon dropped In at head­quarters on his way to Cheyenne for the holidays. Frank is still struggling with the law in Cam­bridge with Paul Shiben, Jerry Froelich, Mc-Elligott and the rest of the crew. Steve Pietro­wicz is still helping to make the "Trib" the WGAN. The "A" stands for advertising. Jim Kelleghan lives out North and is prospering. Hero at the medical school, we have Paul Craden, who is busj-finishing—lucky dog!—the course; Dave Murphy, '25, is a junior and is living at 131S Astor Street; among the Sophomores are Jimmie Stack, who may be reached at 664 N. Rush St. or at the Youngstown Sheet and Tube in Evans­ton, and Urb Gebhard, who lives in his castle at S W. Delaware Place. Ed Kearns—many of last year's men will remember him—and yours truly are the Freshies—still, luckily for y. t. Jim Ronan is going to write up the Chicago group more iu detail and I'll See that he gets you a good batch of notes very shortly. 
From the East word comes chifly from Tom Farrell. Tom is the same financier of old. His work keeps him busy, but he finds time to keep the trail between here and good old Jersey warm with a letter now and then. There is nothing new from the group there. The boys progress steadily—even in love, I understand—without many casualties. Wingerter remains in Cincinnati with 

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Jfie NATION'S BUILDING STONE 
Entrance, Adminisnaaon Hail, Evansville College, EvansviUe, Indiana Miller, Fullenuiider & Doivling, Architects 
Walls That Increase In Charm 
AMERICAN colleges, following the an-x\ . cient European tradition that institu­tions of learning should be built of lasting material, generally natural stone, are se­curing permanent beauty at moderate cost through the use of Indiana Limestone. 
This fine natural stone is so beautiful and well adapted to building purposes and is so economical that more stone buildings throughout the country are constructed of it than of all other stones. Walls of this beautiful stone require little care. Indiana Limestone buildings acquire a soft, mellow tone which adds to their beauty. 
In the building shown above, random jointing has been used with delightful ef­fect. As the years pass, the charm of these walls will increase. 

We will gladly send you a brochure showing fine examples_of collegiate archi­tecture in Indiana Limestone, illustrating the effects obtainable by the use of one or another of the various grades of Indiana Limestone. A reading of this booklet will enable you to follow your own institu­tion's building program with greater un­derstanding and interest. 
For convenience, fill in your name and address below, tear out and mail to Box 823, Service Bureau, Indiana Limestone Com­pany, Bedford, Indiana. • 
Name Address.. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
the General Jlotors, but I know he'd like to "swipe" one of their Chevrolets and motor back to Newark for "keeps." I would like to see Tom, Jake, Jim Silver or one of the crowd back there follow Jimmie Eonan's wake—or lead him—and let us have a meaty letter on the bunch. Jim Dwyer. Bill Reid or some one in New York should do the same for that crowd. I am sure Johnny Ryan will take care of the Pittsburgh territory. Elmer Layden and Johnny TTeibel are still at Duquesne; Prank SleSorley, cheered by Paul Rom-weber won his game; you see there'll be plenty of news from the Smoky City. From Indiana, Bud Barr should give an account of his activities and as many other Hoosiers from the class that he Is in touch with. Jim Glynn, Eddie Lynch, Paul Johnson, Bill Dooley should all be able to trans­fer some of the boys from the Lost to the Found column. Jerry JIcGinley ought to let us hear from Omaha and that section. Hike JIurray or Frank from Boston, Bert Dunne from the Far 

•\Vest; Joe Walsh from tho South, Chuck Jloody Luxenberg clothes have won a widespread from the Cleveland district; Joe Shea from Buffalo; 
popularity among college graduates in every part of the country. Write for local repre­"Put" Newman is at large throughout that terri­
sentative to call or order direct by mail. 
tory and should be able to write a very newsy 
Tailored to Your Order 

note; perhaps El Habert, whom I saw here some time ago, could help us with Cleveland; Lefty $34.50 to $42.50 Tatham should come out of hiding, too; Paul Write for style booklet. Harrington hasn't reported in a year; other lost engineeers are Malcolm Knaus, Bob Graham, Tony Poggianni', Gail Gurnett— to mention only a few-Jim lIcQuain and Slurt Cullinan, Tony Cavelle CL©THES and Ben Bourne—surely they have time to write; 
37 Union Square, New York 
Jack Shouse, is still alive. Norb Arehart, I believe. 
Between 10th A 17th Sts. 

THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND, OHIO 

ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Stadiums Grandstands Athletic Fields 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-one Stadiums and Athletic Fields Thirteen Baseball Par^s Five Fair Ground Grandstatids 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERkNCES 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
will give us some Kentucky notes soon; Wade Sullivan is due for his annual letter from Iowa; Jerry Timmins could enlighten us on Canada and Tony Roxas surely has a little news from the Far East. These, Jim, are just a few names that come to mind as I bang away on this machine but if we get only one letter a month from the various s'ections we could keep the class close together. I know a few of the fellows are out for my blood for not having worked this yeai% 
but I promise to do better from now on. Tou might stir Kavanaugli, Meyers, Dolmage, Griffin, Witlicy, Haley, Hal Robertson, Eddie O'Xeill and that bunch around school into some activity also. But that's that! . 
I know this isn't very much in the way of real news, but it is at least a start—and-1 hope this will be a roiling stone that will gather lots of moss—tlie moss, of course, being class comment. 
Jerry Hayes, 
3341 "W. Adams St. 
EHWIX LE BL.-VNC dropped a note from Beau­

mont, Tex., to say that he had waited in vain 
for The ALUMNUS. Which note is not unusual 
the Editor regrets to confess. But the unusual 
part was that mail came back from the samn 
address that Erwin mentioned, lG2o Franklin St., 
This is like a man biting a dog, as far as THii; 
ALUJIXUS goes. An understanding between the 
Beaumont P. O. and the local mailing dept. is 
being negotiated. 
EDWARD L. DUGGAK announces that he has 

been admitted to the bar of Xew Jersey as an 
attorney-at-law, and will be associated in prac­
tice witli Heine, Bradner, and Laird, counselors-
at-law, 17 Washington St., Newark, N. J. 
J. PAUL JOHNSON is president of the new Kingston Products Corporation, a consolidation of The Kokomo Brass Works, Byrne Kingston & Co., and the Kokomo Electric Co., according to an announcement received at Notre Dame last month. 
In spite of the fact that something ought to be done about this, the Office had to feel happy to receive a card from ED BURKE with a picture of tiie beach at Daytona Beach, Fla., where Ed is resting. 
The outline scheme of "Conference for Student Teachers of History" published in the Catholic Schoiil Journal is from the pen of Sister M. Clotilda, 
S. S. J., Nazareth, Kalamazoo, Jlich. The first installment appeared in the December issue. 
1927 A letter from ARTHUR B. BOERINGER brings the information that Bud is handling hockey and intramural athletics at the U. of Detroit in addi­tion to assisting GUS DORAIS in football. Bud's address is the University of Detroit Ath. Assn. Bud is putting the old AU-American zipper into Detroit athletics and fans are expecting the Detroit eleven to be a power in next Fall's games. STEWART GATES, formerly of Anaheim Calif., received the habit of the Brothers of Holy Cross at the Notre Dame novitiate February 1. CLARENCE RUDDY, former editor of The Jiotre Dame Ijuvyer, and barrister extraordinary in local legal circles, has become associated witli 
Selling 




SERENITY 
A
man wants tosellyou serenity of mind — one of the best possible possessions. 
He offers to insure an adequate education for your children. 
He offers to insure you a sufficient and unfluc­tuating income in your later years. 
He offers to create an estate for your family. 
He offers to make sure that your business will not suffer through the death of a key executive. 
He offers to be of great assistance to you in your relations with your em­ployees. 
Who is he? He is a John Hancock Agent. He does not create a need in you, he fills one. His commodity is future ma­terial security, the basis of serenity of mind. 

Ask him to come in. 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY'^ 
OF BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 
A SiKONG CoMPANV, Over Sixty Years In Business. Liberal as to Contract, Safe and Secure in Every Way. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Fred B. Shearer in the practice of law in Aurora, 
III. "Whether the suggested brilliance of Aurora attracted Clarence, or whether Aurora was prophet, ically named foreseeing Clarence, is neither here nor there. It is his liome town, and ratlier definitely known to supply considerable raw ma­terial for the profession. 
•WILBUR 31'ELROY, whose artistry graced all of the campus publications and several off-campus during his course in architecture at N. D., drops a line from Elmerest, Xorwalk, Conn., to say that "Rush" is the password in his business. That shouldn't be new to ilac, after the demands on his extra hours made here. He states that DAX O'XEIL, '25, sometimes mentioned in this publication, was a week-end guest not long since. Xeedle.ss to say the past and present were thor­oughly overhauled, with an eye to the future. 
JIM QUIXX put Rahway, X. J., and the Quinn & Boden Company, Inc. on the local map with a note not long ago. Aside from his location there wasn't much news and whether Jim is making books [this is not the book-making many of you are thinking' of] that address will reach him. 
BILL HILLEXBRAXD sent in a cheering mes­sage this month, along with the news that he harl been away. Bill is lined up with the Batesville Casket Co., Batesville, Ind., a division of the Hillenbrand Industries. The letter was particu­larly cheering in the face of a cold that almost had the Editor on his back. 
1928 ED'R'ARD J. HAGGERTY, who received his LL.B. this month, achieved the distinction of passing 
the Ohio Bar exams Jan 5 and G, so that he can 
probably open up immediately in Toledo, where 
his home iS at 536 •Woodville St. 
Degrees were awarded in February as follows: 
Bachelor of Arts: THOMAS P. BTRXE, 9349 Gaylord Ave., Cleveland; CHRISTOPHER FLAX­AG.\X, 1347 Proctor Ave., Port Arthur, Tex.; JAMES E. GRAY, S23 S. Lombard Ave., Oak Park, 111.; DAVID F. HICKEY, 1350 Grant St., Denver, Col., CHARLES H. KAISER, 1437 Robinwood, Lakewood, O.; SR. M. FERDIXAXD DUVAL; Order of the Presentation, N. Dak. B. S. in Agriculture: John V. Mc Manmon, Lowell, Mass.; Bachelor of Lan-s: THOMAS P. BEGGAX, R. R 3, 
•Watertown,
 •tt^is.; ED'W.A.RD J. HAGGERTY', 53G 

•V\-oodville
 St., Toledo, O.; GEORGe P. MURRIX, Parkersburg, "W. Va.; PAUL A. ROBERTO. 2493 Overlook Road, Cleveland, O.; JOHX A. •R'ARREX, 119 Lord St., Dunkirk, N. Y'.; Ph. B. in Commerce: CHARLES C. RILEY, 2355 Delaware, Indianapolis,! .nd.; RAYMOXD J. DAHMAX, 005 Lakewood, Y'oungstown, O.; B. C. S. in Commerce: MONTT J. TEXXIS, 3400 Sheridan Road, Chicago; THOMAS 

F.
 KLINGEL, 50S Sheridan St., Ridgeway. Pa.; EUGEXE A. O'BRIEX, 4Go Grand Ave., Eau Claire, •V\''is. 


SHIP CURVING AKT NUMERALS In Your Stadium Seats By the HOTGRAVE PROCESS Write for Particulars, CURTIS & GEER 500 Adeline, Oakland, California Used by Sesqui-Centennial; Calif. Memorial; Rose Bowl; L. A. Coliseum, and others. 
r 


Local Alumni Clubs 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON, OHIO 
Frank Steel. '25, 543 Stratford Ave., President. 
John Dettling, '21, 437 E. Buchtel Ave., SecretaiY. 
THE NOTRE D.VME CLUB OF ARKANSAS 
Board of Governors: •William Baldwin, '13, Little 
Rock; A. Brizzolara, '13, Little Rock; Two­
mey Clifford. '14, Camden; A. R. Hendrick.s, 
'IS, Forth Smith; A. J. Porta, '25, Fort 
Smith; Rev. Geo. P. X. Strassner, '14, Mor­
ris Preparatory School, Little Rock. 
THE NOXRE D.\ME CLUB OF BUFFALO 
Jay L. Lee, '12, 1509 Liberty Bank Building, 
President. 
Fred M. Pralatowski, Dupont-Rayon Co., 
Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF C.\LU3tET REGION 
Clarence "W. Bader, '17, 050 Pierce St., Gary, 
Ind., President. 
F. J. Galvin, '23, First Trust BIdg., Hammond, 
Ind., Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CinCAGO 
Xorman C. Barry, '21, 227 S. Racine St., • 
President. James H. Brennan, '20, 111 "W. Monroe St., 
Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI 
E. C. McHugh, '09, P. O. Box 429, President. 
L. V. DuBois, o. s. '15, Fredk. Schraitt Co.. Fifth and JIain Sts., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.«IE CLUB OF CLE\TSL.4ND 
Joseph Smith, '14, 355 Dalwood Drive, President. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLjB OF CENTRAL OHIO 
Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hester Realti^ Bldg., Columbus, President. 
F. X. Finnerman, 615 "West Chapel St., Columbus, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.45IE CLUB OF THE CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
•William J. Granfield, '13, 31 Elm St., Springfield. Slass., President. , ,^ ., 
James A. Curry, '14, 795 Asylum Ave., Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER 
J P. Logan, 3C54 Marion St.. President. Henry Schwalbe, Argonaut Hotel, Sec.-Treas. 


NOTKE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT 
Edward J. •Weeks, El. '25, 405 Merrick Ave.. 
President. 
George T. Koch, '25, 120 Seward Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DA3IE CLUB OF DBS MOIXES John F. Hvnes, '14, 709 Crocker Bldg., President. Harold P. Klein, '26,1704 Forest Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\5IE CLUB OF DISTRICT OF 
COLU9IBIA 
Frederick •Wm. Wilo, '91, 619 Bond Bldg., 
President. , „ Robert Riordan, '24, Care the Bengalese Brook-
land, D. C, Secretary. 
NOTRE JiXHIE CLUB OF FOKT WAYNE 
•Wm. P. Breen, '77. 913 Calhoun St.. President. Clifford •Ward. '22. 220 E. •William St.. Secretary. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 25'! 
fr 
MEMBER: CHICAGO REAL ESTATE BOARD TEL. CENTRAL 0920 







DANIEL J. O'CONNOR 
REAL ESTATE 
ACREAGE RENTING LOANS INSURANCE 
OTIS BUILDING - 10 SO. LA SALLE ST. CHICAGO 



W. A. DRAPER 
1898 -'00-'01 -'02-'03 - '04 - '05 - '06 -'07 
Great Years at the Greatest School of Alii 
NOW 
IVestern Advertising Representative Delineator Magazine—a Great Magazine 5 So. Wabash Ave. : : Chicago, Illinois 
V= 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


Announcing: 
A New Rendezvous 
FOR 

Notre Dame Men 
AT NEW BUFFALO 


The Gateway of Michigan '* 
"Doc" Whitty, Dan O'Connor and other Notre Dame men are building their summer homes at Riviera,—so why not you? This beautiful 700 acre estate is at the door of Chicago, yet it is out in the fruit-belt country. South Bend is ONE HOUR away. Chicago is TWO hours. We are convenient to Hammond, Gai-y, LaPorte. 
The prices of homesites are right, and the personnel of this develop­ment is known to you. Ed Kelly, Jim Barsaloux, John Eberson, Mike Igoe, Walter Primley, Andrew Ryan, August Skoglund, Jimmy Whalen, —^the whole crowd will be going to Riviera this summer. This is the place for your family. Your front porch overlooks Lake Michigan and our 8000 feet of beach; your back bedroom looks down on the green valley where the Galien River flows. Vineyards, orchards and groves of oak surround you. Here are Beauty, Health and Happiness. 
We have prepared a colored map and booklet with illustrations and will be glad to mail you these for the asking. 

THE RIVIERA COMPANY 
77 WEST WASHINGTON STREET CHICAGO. ILLINOIS (State 9897) 
WILLIAM J. MILROY,' 13. General Manager 
BtHTON HARBOR^/ 
ST. JOSCPHAT^ 
Vl/^LV 
/M^^ 
CHICAGO 
W4\iRk~^^ 
^ILES 
NEW BUFFAI.O^*^^«^^^^^"^ AjACKSOH O 
^^^W J T3^^ SOUTH BEND 
1 ^*^— "^ 
1 ^^^JjU^ 
CHICAGO «3 
-—JW 




