The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

v\3S/^/f>x 
This book i» not to b* tak»n froB the LlbrarT 

^^ Notre Dame ALUMNUS 
A N ALL-ALUMNI SECTION OF THE BANQUET 
Left to right—Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C., '07; Rev. John F. O'Hara, CS.C, '11; Timothy P. Gahin, '16; Very Rev. James A. Bums, CS.C, '88, and Rev. Michael L. Moriarty, '10. 
JUNE, 1935 
Quality s/u/ie6 orlq/ileU a/ icx
 10,0 0 0 milos 

People who have examined the new Master De Luxe Chevrolet marvel at its lew Chevrolet 
quality. elv vou will marvel thousand miles. so big and sturdy — so fine in every part The most su 
— that it no longer looks or acts like a its prices are low-priced carl The most pleasing result it gives the i of this high quality manufacture is that in Chevrolet but, as we have the Master De Luxe will continue to give said before, q 
remerr.berea all tne real satisfaction long after j'ou are satis- more pleasa; 
CHEVROLET MOTOR COMP.^NY. DETROII 
Compare Chevrolet's loi\ delivered priced and eaf-} G M A C : 


CHEVRniET 
{vr/.9.l^ 

TURRET-TOP BODY BY FISHER WITH NO DRAFT VENTILA TION . . . IMPROVED KNEE-ACTION RIDE BlUE FIAME VALVE-IN-HEAD ENGINE w E ATHE » P R O O F CABLE-CONTROLLED BRAKES . SHOCK-PROOF SIEERH4G 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES £. AOMSTBONG* *2D» The maRazine is published monthly durinp the scholastic year by the Alumni Association 3Iember of the American of the tiniversity of Kotre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 
Editor Alumni Council. 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include WILLIAM R. DOOLET, *2S, Member of Nat'l. Catholic 
a year's subscription to THE ALUTIINUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1S79. All 
Auociate Editor Atumni Federation 
correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre Dame. Ind. 
VOL. XIII JUNE, 1935 No. 9 
91st COMMENCEMENT CARRIES ON NEW ORDER 
Alumni Attendance Breaks All Previous Records; Class of '35 Contributes Fitting Close to Typical 
Year of the New Notre Dame; Week-End Kaleidoscopic 
May 31, June 1 and June 2 of this year of Our Lord 1935 proved to the satisfaction of everyone at Notre Dame that the University's com­mencements have permanently out­grown the Church and Washington Hall. 
Circumstances indicated in the Spring that the 1935 Commencement would resume the «iore cloistered as­pects of earlier years. But, like the mountains to Mahomet, the limelight came to Notre Dame. 
Friday, once a quasi-Retreat for a few fortunate visitors, this year ech­oed to the influx. By nightfall, Dil­lon Hall was filled with the returning alumni of 1920 and after. Morrissey and Lyons Halls reverberated to the tramp of the high school athletes in for John Nicholson's Second National Notre Dame Interscholastic Track and Field Meet, and the guests of the Indiana State Intercollegiate Golf Championship Meet. 
The golf course hummed with tour­naments. State and alumni. 
The President of the University launched the Class of '35 on its week­end with a brief, pointed message in Washington Hall at 12:45. 
Wisconsin made some of the old-time baseball alumni feel i-elaxed by showing up the weaknesses of this year's N. D. nine, which showed its strength the next day in a more thril­ling manner by defeating Michigan State (cf. Sports this issue). 
The cinders on Cartier Field glowed -inth the trial heats of the preps. 
At 6:00 various Reunion groups were besieging the Alumni Office ask­ing about the dinners. Some day the point will be scored, that the -A.lumni Office can lead a Class to the campus water, but it will have to do its own drinking. In other words, we sug­gested, we urged, we hoped, we would have been glad to help plan, Reunion affairs. But in the absence of any concrete reaction, with one notable exception, we felt obliged to refrain from compulsory reunions. The ex­ception was the 5-Year Class of 1930. 
jVt 8:00 P.M. Friday, that gi-oup to the remarkable number of some 125 members of the Class, assembled at the College Inn of the Hotel LaSalle for a private observance of the jubi­lee. Entertainment and a buffet sup­per, planned by Chairamn Gus Bondi, Prof. Louis Hasley, and a local com­mittee of the '30 alunmi ipso facto, provided a full evening. 
For the crowded campus in the early evening hours. Prof. Joseph Casasanta, '23, had his famous Uni­versity Band in a brilliant concert from the porch of the Main Building. Perfect weather and the splendid, varied repertoire of the Band kept the Quadrangle packed from start to finish. 
For any lonely hearts, and there were few indeed. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, polished off the night with a fine moving picture in Washington Hall. 
-Ml this on the Friday that once was so quiet. 
Came Saturday, and with it one of those changes in time that are for­ever baffling us on the campus. Hence the Mass for Deceased Alumni was celebrated by Rev. Eugene Burke, being in the last stages when the in­tended celebrant. Rev. M. L. Moriar­ty, secretary and chaplain of the Class of '10, came in with his Class­mates. 
At 9:30, the Class of '35, paid its last visit as a Class to Sacred Heart Church. " Since the transfer of the Baccalaureate Mass to the Gymnasi­um, this Last Visit has taken on a litei-al and moving significance for the boys in whose lives the Chui'ch has been so prominent. 
Class Day, immediately following, saw the usual brilliant array of grad­uating talent. Tom Proctor, son of Bob Proctor, '04, gave the address of the President of the Class; Joseph Becek delivered the Class Oration; George Hager, C.S.C, read his beau­tiful Class Poem; honors for the year were awarded, and John Holahan gave the impressive Valedictory. The Universitj' Orchestra played for the event. 
Local Club Council 

In the court room of the Law Building, the Sixth .A.nnual Council of Local -A.lumni Clubs met at 11 o'clock on Saturday. President Tim Galvin presided. Only 16 Clubs were represented, but in the open forum of Club affairs that followed, so much of help, so much of inspiration and practical value, was produced, that this feature of Commencement seems definitely established as an integral and increasingly \'ital part. Clubs will hear in more detail of the stimu­lation which this meeting brought to the Alumni Office particularly. 
The Council discussed the achieve­ments of the Clubs from Coast to Coast during the year. The Alumni Office lauded them generally for the work on prospective student contacts and on Universal Notre Dame Night. A few of the specific achievements discussed were: The St. Joe Valley's football banquet with Will Rogers; the N. Y. Club's honoring of Father Nieuwland, the Chicago Club's dinner with Shane Leslie as guest of honor; the Los .4ngeles Club's luncheon to Fi-ank Spearman, the Laetare Medal­ist, and Fr. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, on the occasion of presentation; the Gogebic Range's dinner for Elmer Layden and Joe Boland last summer; and the Waterbury, Conn., Club's one hour broadcast on U.N.D. Night. These instances tjTjifled the scope and the increasing depth of Club pro­grams. The whole tone of the Coun­cil was one of vigorous maturity. 
The Afternoon 

Under Sports, Joe Petritz probably tells you about the very successful repetition of the Notre Dame inter-scholastics in track and field. The value of having these boys from the Catholic high schools of the nation here for competition and the inevit­able acquaintance OTth the plant and the pei-sonnel and some of the spirit of Notre Dame w^as evident to alumni who enjoyed the week-end with them. 


The Alumni Banquet 

East Hall of the University Dining Halls, beautifully decorated for the 
262 The 'J^otre 'Dame cAlumnus June, 1935 
event, was filled to its four walls by alumni and members of the Class of '35. Of the dinner, nothing need be said except that it was typical of the traditions set for this event. 
Father O'Hara's brilliant address is reprinted in this issue. So, too, Tim Galvin's talk is reprinted. So much happened during the Associa­tion year, that Tim was the most sur­prised man in the institution when he was told the length of his report. 
Father Mike Moriarty's silver tongue was most fittingly invoked to express a few thoughts on behalf of the Class of '10, silver jubilarians. 
Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C. 
S. C, '07, Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, also ad­dressed the banquet. 
But it remained for Sam Dolan, '10, back for his first Commencement in 25 years, to give the "Gettysburg address" of the evening. No comment or attempt at summarj' could do just­ice to the beautiful sentiments ex­pressed by this great character in No­tre Dame's annals. It had, however, the virtue of sajHng the things every­one there wanted to say, in the way that the most enthusiastic could have hoped to say them. 
Following the Banquet, the Class of '25 assembled in unexpected strength and numbers for the custom­ary solution of local, national and world problems which are not already in the hands of members. Largest benefit emerging from this session was a decision to make the Class Sec­retarj'ship a more comprehensive job, Scallan being assisted, if he should become active, by a committee of the whole. 
While these things occupied alum­ni. Prof. Joseph Casasanta, '23, with his now traditional versatility, was presenting another major and nation­ally famous Universitj' musical organ­ization to the campus visitors, the XJniversitj' Glee Club. That group's magnificent and beautifully executed program completely packed Washing­ton Hall.. 
Sunday, June 2 

Baccalaureate Sermon and Com­
mencement Address appear in com­
plete text in this issue. 

But something must be said of the 
beauty of the Gymnasium as it was 
decorated to effect a cathedral atmos­
phere for this ceremony. 

No report could fail to record the 
beautiful singing of the Moreau Sem­
inary Choir under the direction of 
Eev. James Connerton, C.S.C, '20. A 
Gregorian Mass considerably short­
ened the ceremonies, so that even with 
Witt's "Ecce Sacerdos," Vittoria's 
"Ave Maria," Palestrina's "Ascendo 
ad Patrem" and Lotti's "Regina Coe­
li," Most Eev. John F. Noll, LL.D., 
'15, celebrant, had completed the 
Mass and blessed the Senior Flag by 
10:30, when the procession moved the 
flag-pole on the Quadrangle where the 
Flag, given on Washington's Birth­day, was raised to float over the cam­pus until June 7, 1936, when the Flag of '36 will replace it. 
At 12:30 in the Dining Halls, the Monogram Club met and perfected an organization with Edward J. Mee­han, '20, as first president, the story appearing in more detail in this issue. 
The closing event of the Com­mencement, the awarding of degrees filled the Gymnasium at 4:00 P. M. 
The text of Mr. Leslie's address does not begin to do justice to the vitality and the interest which his personal charm and brilliant delivery added. It was one of the most pleas­ant addresses to listen to that a Class could have enjoyed, and the Class of '35 did. At the same time, within it are the seeds of wisdom as great and counsel as sound as in more somber pronouncements. Those who heard him were impressed with the advant­ages that the boys had enjoyed in the semester's classes and lectures he had given here. 
So died once more the anticipated and sought for tumult and the happy and most satisfying shouting of an­other Commencement. In keeping with all of the good ti-aditions of No­tre Dame, old and new, what other tribute need be paid. 



Jerry Parker Busy 
H. Jerome Parker, '31, of Sacra­mento, Calif., brother of Howard Par­ker, '17, has just been appointed to the important post of executive sec­retary of the Centre Club, an organ­ization of more than 1,000 Catholic college graduates in New York City. The club occupies the old quarters of the Catholic Club of New York, at 120 Central Park South. 
Jerry, as he is more familiarly known, assumed his new position on May 1. Besides his administrative duties, he also will be in direct charge of the broad program of Catholic Ac­tion sponsored by the club. His work will be on a full-time basis. 
After graduating from Notre Dame, he joined the investment banking firm of Blyth & Co., serving at first in San Francisco and then in New York. Since 1932 he has been asso­ciated with the rail and air transpor­tation industry. Last year he made an extended study of European transpor­tation methods. 
At Notre Dame, he was active in extracurricular activities, being var­sity cheerleader, as well as business manager of the Glee Club for several years. 

OFFICIAL HONORARY DOCTORATE CITATIONS 
The University's official recognition of the three brilliant recipients of the honorary LL.D. is phrased in the following citations: 
The University of Notre Dame at this ninety -first annual commence­ment announces the conferring of the following honorary degrees: 
The degree of doctor of laivs, hon­oris causa, on: 
A member of the hierarchy, having distinction as the first American ever attached to the secretariat of state of the Holy See, who in the midst of onerous duties as churchman has done very influential work as author, edit­or, publisher, and director of Catholic literature in a great archdiocese— The Mos.t Rev. Francis Joseph Spell-man, Titular Bishop of Sila and Aux­iliary Bishop of Boston. 
On a Catholic man of letters, of international reputation, graduate of the famous English schools of Eton and Cambridge, who has enriched the literature of Ireland and England by more than a score of volumes notable for scholarship and literary style, and who as member of the faculty of the University in the latter half of this schoolyear has inspired members of the Class of 1935 to efforts at writing and to appreciation of the best in life and in literature— Shane Randolph Leslie, of Glaslough, the Irish Free State. 
On a la\vyer distinguished by char­acteristic modesty in public service of national and international import­ance, in the organization of the War Industries Board and in membership on the United States Shipping Board in the World War, in the organization of the Irish Relief in 1921 and 1922, in giving new direction to the study of economics by the preparation and publication of the first international balance sheet, in 1923, and in his gen­erous assistance to Catholic education in the city of Racine—the Honorable Martin James Gillen, of Land o' Lakes, Wisconsin. 
Fr. O'Hara Speaks in N. Y. 
An informal Notre Dame reunion of sorts was held at the annual din­ner of the Steuben County Society of New York at the Hotel Pennsylvania, New York City, on April 27 last. Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University, was guest speaker at the affair. He was introduced by the president of the Steuben County Soc­iety of New York, John Quincy Ad­ams III, '27, of Montclair, N. J. 
Two old Scholastic cronies also met at the dinner for the first time since they were graduated from Notre Dame in 1929. They were Harley McDevitt, of Passaic, N. J., a sales executive with the National Geo­graphic Magazine, and John V. Hin­kel, of Washington, D.C., now asso­ciated with the editorial staff of the New York Times. John was editor of the Notre Dame Scholastic in 1928-29 and Harley its business manager. 

June, 1935 The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 


SHANE LESLIE DELIVERS COMMENCEMENT TALK 
Irish Author and Lecturer Charms Audience with Culture and Wit as He Counsels Class of '35 and Praises Notre Dame for Its Academic Achievement 
Graduates of 1935!! It was written by the Psalmist: "All things come to an end but I perceive that Thy Com­mandment is exceeding broad." All things come to an end: your days at Notre Dame and mine. There is an end to all things even unto bad w^eather in Indiana. You have sur­vived storm and deluge, lectures and blizzards, examinations and discipline and now in the presence of your par­ents you are receiving the intellectual monogram of Our Lady under whose Golden Dome you have lived four years of a life which can be distin­guished as Spartan, Sporting and Spiritual. 
Your parents see this day the fruit of their years of sacrifice and ambi­tion. It is parents' day which fathers share with mothers and they have magnificently desen'ed it. Like the Eucharistic Pelicans, many must have given their very blood to make this day a splendid possibility in your lives. To you I say: "Avete! Salvete! Valete!" It is a splendid sight to see 500 young men leave the campus for the camp of life's battle as finely equipped as you. 
I believe that the trouble of every University today is the difficult mix­ing of discipline an d democracy which can seldom be wisely fused ex­cept by an ideal. You have your ideal here and out of the quicksands of youth has been fashioned a quick­silver which can not only run stable but reflect the ideal under which you have been educated for four years. It is a splendid sight to see young men starting out to make the pride of evil in the world cringe and its folly bleed. Yours is a legion not of veterans but of youth. You cany your bonus with you—to give to your country. 
When I first entered South Bend I believed I had reached Notre Dame when I stood outside the majestic Studebaker building on which flashed in colored light the magical words "Builders of Champions." It could certainly be transferred to the out­side of this building. 
I am thinking of the phrase which the Greeks gave to their ideal of manhood: Kalos Kagathos: the good and the beautiful: a reference to character as well as to athletic train­ing. The phrase has often been translated "English gentleman" but I venture to give it another version— that of "Fighting Irish": good in his religion and beautiful in his athletic development. 

Whatever your name or your race there are certain traits which count today as Irish — a Frenchman once summed up different nations by im­agining the effect of their arrival by ones twos and threes on a desert 
SHANE LESLIE, LL.D. 
Climaxes a semester's eloquence. 

island. He said "one Englishman would make a club. Two Englishmen a golf match. Three Englishmen a colony." Of the Irish he said: "One Irishman means a political party; two Irishmen, a prize fight; three Irish­men, High Mass." 
This is a beginning and a com­mencement for you. The late Mon­signor Benson used to describe the storj' of a young man commencing life. When he was confirmed, his mother took him aside and said: Life is now beginning. When he left col­lege, he was told so again in a com­mencement address. On his death bed, the priest told him once more that life was just beginning. "Hasn't it begun yet?" he asked and died. What advice am I to give you save that you will lose illusions but keep ideals. Do not hope for too much but do not fear at all. 
This may be a time of transition and difficulty but I think I may say that you are beginning life in a land where standards are still immeasur­ably higher than in Europe. In 20 years only could we in Europe hope to measure where you now are. 
One in ten Europeans has a car compared to America. You do not realize the perfection of American telephones till you have tried to call across the street in Europe. Your trains are more comfortable and the distribution of the best and simplest food is amazing. The standards of living for the great Middle Class in the United States are as high as can be attained by the affluent in Europe. Your material civilization seems com­plete but not your universities. It is difficult to compare universities. Their tasks and traditions are different. In England men go to the university to learn tradition. In America you are still building tradition. Our universi­ties are largely in the past and yours are in the future. Your student body is more efficient all round. 
I believe the English universities lay a greater accent on sheer athletics than you do. Your athletes stick bet­ter to class. Many attended mine 30 times without a break. I think your track team here could on its record have beaten Oxford and Cambridge this year. I look forward to the day when the Notre Dame colors are un­furled on the tracks of the other side and with the development of faster and safer air travel this day may not be far distant. 
Of my students I carry away many delightful visions and I have put aside in a sealed envelope the names of six whom I prophesy will be amongst the foremost American writ­ers in ten years. Most vividly I re­call you men praying in the snow for your dying captain of football only two months ago. 
I have learnt a great deal at Notre Dame in four months and I shall add to my loyalties to Eton and Cam­bridge the echo of your Victory Song. I might say that of all colleges I have known I found Notre Dame easiest to climb into after hours but that argues a finer sense of honor be­tween the authorities and the men. 
I recall the Greek epigram full of pathos and conveying as much of the Christian charity as a pagan poet could. "I am the tomb of a ship­wrecked sailor. But do others sail on w^ith better luck and happier winds." 
264 TAe'J^olre'Damecyflumnoj June, 1935 
ISItmtiiiiiiiniiminiiniiiiimimmniiimtii iiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiit iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiit)itaiiiiiiiiiiiiiii)iiitiiii<iiiiiiiiiiiiittiiiMiitiiitii>iitiiiiiitii)iiitiiiiiiii«<iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiQ 
A Greetins from President Bernard J. Voll, '17 
To THE ALUMNI OF NOTRE DAME: 
You have honored me with the Presidency of the Association and in this first greeting I want you to know that I am justly proud of the position and deeply and sincerely appreciative. 
With the honor, of course, goes responsibiUaes which were forcibly impressed upon me by the very comprehensive and enlightening report presented to the Assodarion at the Alumni Banquet by President Tim Galvin. 
In that report Mr. Galvin demonstrated very clearly that he has been a worthy successor to the many able Presidents which our Association has had and that under his leadership we have reached a position of prominence never attained before. Our Association has become a national factor in the Notre Dame picture that we are no longer at liberty to nourish and neglect at will. 
I believe I can say without reservation that everywhere our alunmi have worked unselfishly in the cause of the greater Notre Dame. We have made and I am certain will continue to make a distinct contribution to the University of which Notre Dame is conscious and appreciative. 
Let us not forget, however, that we as alumni are' basking in the reflected glory of a University whose achievements in the field of higher Catholic education during almost a century of existence have merited the admiration and profound respect of all peoples. It must, therefore, be obvious that any service rendered in behalf of the University is returned to us in a multitude of ways, and that no solid building for either is done without mutual rewards. 
The excellent work which the Association accomplished last year sets a precedent which may seem difficult to maintain. However, the way is open for further development of the opportunity that lies before Notre Dame and Notre Dame men and with your continued co-operation we shall attempt to exploit those opportimities. 
Unpleasant as the task may be, it seems impossible to conclude this message without a reference to our financial position. We have an accumulated deficit which was perhaps inevitable in the face of our activities and the economic crisis through which we are passing, but surely it is reasonable to suppose that with improved business conditions and the addition of thousands of new members, the Association will again assiune it's own financial obligations. From the splendid spirit manifest during the Commencement, this should be possible without the sacrifice of a single activity in which we are now engaged. 
The President of the Association is merely the symbol of it's membership. I am your elected spokesman, but the measure of our ability to serve the University and ourselves rests finally with the individual member. Out progress is based upon the support you are willing to accord me. Li the past the work of the Local Qubs, the response of individual 
•alumni of all the classes and particularly the co-operation of the University have meant everything in the advances made toward tie ultimate goal. I am confidently counting upon that continued co-operation for the advancement of the interests of Notre Dame and ourselves. 
With these factors, may next year's account of stewardship be as filled with progress as was that of the year just ended. 
BERNARD J. VOLL, PH.B. '17, President of the Assodation, South Bend, Indiana 
Qiiiiiiiiiittiittiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiK iiiiiiiiiiiiii mil iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiimiiinMiiiwiitiiHIMiiMimiiiiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimimininiiiiiHlSI 
June, 1935 The T^^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
BACCALAUREATE BRINGS SPIRITUAL COUNSEL 
"This Do, And Thou Slmlt Live."— 
Luke X, 28. 

In the center of the great sweep of stone steps leading up to the library building of Columbia University in New York City, there is an imposing bronze statue. Seated in a chair of classical design is the majestic figure of a woman. Both hands are raised; the right hand holds and is supported by a sceptre, and with the left hand she is beckoning. A wreath adorns her head, draperies fall in peaceful folds to her sandalled feet, and on her lap is an open book from which her eyes are raised in meditation. 
It is an inspiring figure, one of the masterful works of the American sculptor, Daniel French, and we real­ly need no guide to tell us that this beautiful woman with nobility stamped on her every feature is Alma Mater. 
As we gaze upon this striking im­age of the cherishing mother, we feel ourselves stirred to the very depths of our emotions. Instinctively as we contemplate and meditate, we think not of that particularly University but rather do we envision and nur­ture affectionate thoughts of our own dear Alma Mater. 
For "Alma Mater" is not a scien­tific expression which means the same thing whenever and whereever it is uttered. Rather does it convey dif­ferent messages to different persons and to different groups of persons. 
And in expressing my gratitude to the authorities of this great Univer­sity for the honor that is to be con­ferred on me today in making me a son of Notre Dame, I wish to say with joy and with pride that "Alma Mater" will always mean the same to me as it will mean to you. I shall strive always to be a loyal devoted son of Notre Dame. I shall endeavor to be true to her ideals and to be cooperative and helpful in all that concerns her welfare. And all the more am I grateful because Notre Dame is the first Universtiy ever to confer on me an honorary degree. 
Besides the honor of becoming a son of Notre Dame, I have the addi­tional honor today of being privileged to present to you, my brothers, some thoughts for your consideration on this important occasion. 
My first word to you is one of con­gratulations, congratulations because you have that great, that natural, and that irreplaceable gift of youth, the importance of which is stressed so emphatically and so awfully in Gounod's Opera "Faust." The learned philosopher, weary of life and the pursuit of knowledge, spurns the tempter's proffered gifts of wealth and of power, and craves instead the gift of youth. This gift for which the 
MOST REV. FRANas J. SPELLMAN, D.D. 
Baccalaureate Preacher 

aged philosopher yearned so bitterly is now in your full possession, and I heg you to use it well and to begin to use it at once. 
Unfortunately I am unable to tell you that youth is the only thing that is essential to success. Nor can I tell you that it is as easy to succeed today as it was in times that are past. I am unable to tell you this be­cause I do not believe it. The combin­
. ation of youth, ability, industiousness, and integrity, was an absolute guar­antee to success in years gone by. But this recipe is not suflicient today. These four qualities are as important factors to success as they always were, but in addition to these endow­ments, which I believe you all to pos­sess, there are required also now more than ever before the supplemen­tary qualities of courage and perse­verance, which qualities I also confi­dently believe that you possess. 
You are young and you are edu-' cated. The knowledge that you have acquired is organized knowledge, co­ordinated common sense if you ^vill, which in a broad interpretation is a good definition of education. 
You have learned principles and facts, which are important, and you have learned to put them into prac­tice, which is more important, thus fortifying yourselves with the arms and the armor with which you are to face and to solve the complex prob­lems of life here and of life beyond here. 
And in order that this sermon may be something more than a theoretical exhortation, in order that yon may at least have the opportunity of remem­bering something precise, I have for­mulated three very simple and very easy to remember recommendations for your practical life, and three equally simple and equally easy to remember suggestions for your relig­ious life. 

As a plan for your life as men liv­ing and working in the world, that is for your business or your cultural or your professional life,' I would rec­ommend: 
First: That you remember what you have teamed. "Without memory there is no knowledge," as Dante tells us. 
Second: That you continue to read 

and to study and to learn, especially 
about your particular subject. In oth­
er words—^"Always more and always 
better." 
Third: That you live and profit by what you have learned. 
And now for the three recommend­ations in regard to your practical Catholic life. 
The first recommendation is prayer. Without prayer it is impossible to be saved. Saint Alphonsus tells us that those who pray are saved, and those who do not pray are lost. 
It is not necessary to say long prayers but it is necessary to say some prayers. Never close your eyes in slumber at night without saying at least the Act of Contrition to ask God's pardon for any sins you may have committed during that day or during your lives. 
And this is the second recommenda­tion: 
Make up your minds this morning that never through your own fault will you miss Mass on a Sunday or a Holyday of Obligation. There is little danger of your committing such a fault in the immediate future, but I am not speaking for the present or the proximate future, I am speaking for your lives. 
"Life on Earth is a Warfare," as we read in the Book of Job. 
You must be ever on your guard. In the matter of missing Mass, for example, you may be tempted when you are alone, away from home. Yon may not be feeling quite as well as usual, the weather may be a bit stormy, you may not know exactly where the Church is, nor the precise time of the Masses, and the thought suggests itself that perhaps yon are not obliged to go to Mass that day. 
In situations like this, my dear friends, I beg you to be humble and June, 1935 
The 'Hotre 'Dame cAlumnus 
 en­pointed^ out to him the way to good­
to be prayerful, and to resolve now to such a soul to comfort it, to ness and to greatness, and from and and frequently to renew the resolu­courage it, and to accompany it on 
in and through whose eyes he saw the light of mother-love, the light 
tion never to take the first wrong its journey to heaven and to Himself. 
step in any direction, because if you Recapitulating, therefore, three that we, my friends and brothers, 
do, it is extremely difficult to get back things for your practical life are: have seen shine in mothers' eyes, ato where you were when you started. 
Remember what you have learned; light that to us beams forth a three­These are, therefore, the first two 
never stop learning, profit from what fold radiance, and bears a three-fold suggestions, prayer, and Mass on you have learned. significance, our mother's love, the Sundays and Holydays; and the last The three things for your spiritual love of Notre Dame, and the love of one is this: life are: our Blessed Mother. 
That you receive our Divine Lord in Holy Communion at least once Prayer, Mass every Sunday and And so paraphrasing the words of each month, because our Blessed every Holyday, and Holy Conununion Lincoln we may say—All that we are 
Saviour must be merciful to a soul once a month. and all that we hope to be, we owe 
that has been faithful and devoted "These Do, and Thou Shalt Live." not alone to our mother—^but to our to Him. I am sure that during the And for a closing thought of grati­mothers. last hours of such a soul's earthly tude and of hope, I would adapt an 
God grant that we may be worthy 

life, as the veil bet\veen this world expression of Abraham Lincoln in re­sons of all three mothers. 
and eternity grows more thin, I am ferring to the great and good mother 
sure that Our Divine Lord will come whose knotted and toil-worn hands 
"This Do And We Shall Live!" 

Notre Dame Golf Course Donor's Widow Presents Plaque to School as Prize 
One of the most novel and distinc­tive golf trophies ever seen here has been placed on display at the library of the University of Notre Dame. — 
The gift of Mrs. Mary G. Burke of Portsmouth, 0., the trophy wall re­cord from year to year the winners of the Universitj' of Notre Dame championship, and it •ivill remain at the University. 
The trophy replaces the cup which Winfield Day, a junior this year, won permanently by taking the school title three years running. It was donated by Mrs. Burke to honor the memory of her late husband, William P. Burke, who bore the cost of construc­tion of the William J. Burke-Univer­sity golf course. 
The trophy is in the form of a metal plaque, mounted on a wooden shield, on which is engraved a topo­graphical map of the golf course. Names of the first 18 champions, starting with Larry Moller in 1930, ^vill be engraved on the greens of the first 18 holes, along u-ith the year and score of the winner. 
The next 18 winners will have their names engraved on the 18 tees, the next 18 on the fairways, under a novel arrangement. The process will be repeated so that the trophy may still be in use in 108 years. 
The map of the course was made by a group of six engineering students, headed by Jerome Gushing. 
The map is surmounted by a top 
plate of silver, a reproduction of a 
view from the golf course which took 
more than six weeks to complete. In 
the foreground is the figure of Bill 
Burke, son of the donor of the trophy 

in the act of hitting a ball. In the Memorial Trophy" and the Notre •work is mounted, is made of 20 sep­
background the spire of Sacred Heart Dame seal, backed by two crossed arate pieces of American black wal­
church, the dome of the Administra­golf clubs, took R. Gayde, the sculp­nut, which are laminated, as in the tion building, and several of the resi­tor, more than 140 hours to finish. case of airplane propellers, and so 
dence halls may be seen. Ten men worked on the reproduction constructed that the panel will not of the golf course outlay. warp, and that the joints are not 
The name plate, on which are en­

visible to the eye. 
graved the words "William J. Burke The shield, on which the metal 
June, 1935 The t{otTe 'Dame cAlumnus 
N. D. PROGRESS SUMMARIZED BY FR. O'HARA 

President's Annual Address at the Alunui Banquet Pays Tribute to Many Factors That Have Resulted in Successful Year; Outline of New Projects Arouses Enthusiasm 
It should be an easy task for an old student and teacher to extend a welcome to his classmates and former pupils, and for a chaplain to greet the spiritual charges who have grown up under his care. I always welcome the chance to say hello to the old boys, and to hear about their jobs and their sweethearts or their ^vives and their first babies. Somehow or other, they don't tell you so much about the sec­ond and third, and by the time the list grows to eight or nine, they are looking for advice, rather than giving it, on how to raise a family. 
That task would be relatively easy. We would all feel better about it, I am sure, if the old relationship re­mained undisturbed. It is a more difficult task for me to appear before you with the responsibilities of the University upon my shoulders, and the sense of responsibility has been increased immeasurably by two sad affairs that have occurred during the past year. 
Father O'Donnell, by sheer force of will, kept himself alive last year until the Commencement festivities were over. His contribution to Notre Dame is hard for us to measure. He brought to the presidency a fine cul­ture and a rare distinction. A great poet—one of the greatest of his gen­eration—and with the sensitive soul of a poet, he accepted without ques­tion the mandates of his superiors, and turned his keen mind to problems of administration. He was quick to learn, and this poet amazed business men by his quick and accurate grasp of business problems. He remained ever the poet, however, and in his death those nearest to him saw much of the fulfillment of his prophecy of death which he uttered nearly thirty years ago in a poem entitled "Pre­n'sion." 
Prevision 
BY CirABLEs L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 

/ can not tell what tcay the years ivOl lead. How hands may falter and hoic feet may bleed. What deep eantcntmcnt I shall have or need, I can not tell. 
1 do not fcnoto why the fleet earhj years Should shake vie with sttnttisc of future fears; Why golden suns set m a gloom of tears 
I do not know. 

I must not ask of winter winds that come Across the around where men sleep cold and dumb. If 1 shall rest there well.—of my last home I miut not ask. 
I shall not shrink, maybe I shall iwt dread, ir/icn time has sloived »iij/ step and boKcd viy head. To go atcay, to join the cloistered dead I shall not shrink. 
1 shall have hope in spite of heavy shame. Among God's pensioners to find wi/ name,— In Him who for the strayed and lost ones 
came I shall have hope. 
REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C, '11 
Facts are his fancy. 

The death of Father Cavanaugh makes it even harder. Father Cava­naugh was the living embodiment of the spirit of Notre Dame. He was president of Notre Dame for a longer period than any other man ^vith the exception of Father Sorin. When he took charge, Notre Dame was a rela­tively small Catholic college, and when illness forced him to lay down the burdens of office, it was already the Greater Notre Dame. His great heart, his divine gift of eloquence, his ready humor, and his sympathetic understanding of human nature made friends for Notre Dame everywhere. All of us here tonight are his debtors. Many of us he raised. He placed our feet in the paths of righteousness, and if we did not follow in his foot­steps, it was not his fault. By his un­bounded confidence in us, he gave us confidence in ourselves. He loved Notre Dame and all Notre Dame men; he loved especially the Alumni gath­erings. It was his way to give his whole strength to any cause that won his heart, and he spent his strength early in life for the good of Notre Dame. 
When the Book of Life is closed, we can get our most accurate esti­
mate of the worth of a man. When 
we look back now at the spirit and 
accomplishments of Father O'Donnell 
and Father Cavanaugh, we feel, as 
Bishop Kelley once said, that Notre 
Dame has had more than its share 
of great men. We dare not think too 
long of the responsibilities their lives 
have placed upon us: Such contempla­
tion makes us fear and falter. All 
we can do is ask that when you say 
a prayer for the repose of their great 
souls, you add a word of supplication 
that Notre Dame may carry on. I 
can satisfy myself only by consider­
ing this administration as an inter­
regnum. 
In spite of the heavy crosses we have had to bear this year, God's blessings on Notre Dame have been abundant. Public recognition of aca­demic achievements has been gener­ous this year. Father Nieuwlaiid has twice been honored with medals rec­ognizing his contributions to the sci­ence of Chemistry; the gold medal of the American Institute on Feb­ruary 7th, and the Nichols Medal, awarded by the New York Chapter of the American Chemical Society was presented to him on April 23rd. The work of the Department of Chemistry continues to receive recog­nition, and graduate students in the Department have published over 25 papers in various scientific journals since my report at the last Com­mencement. Several papers have also been published by the Biology De­partment, and quite recently it has been announced by Father Wennin­ger, Dean of the College of Science, that Professor J. A. Reyniers has suc­ceeded, after six years of patient experimentation, in producing germ-free guinea pigs. This particular achievement has been the goal of scientists ever since the experiments of Pasteur were announced fifty years ago. 
Other departments of the Colleges of Science and Engineering have done important research this year, and by joint action of the Depart­ments of Physics and Electrical En­gineering, the high-tension laboratory in the Gushing Hall of Engineering will be equipped this summer with a 12-foot copper globe for experiments with three million volts of electricity. Operation in this laboratory will be­gin with the fall term of school. The Department of Botany has added sev­eral thousand plants to its herbarium. The increased facilities in this De­partment were made possibly largely through a federal grant by which the Federal Emergency Relief Adminls­
268 The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus Jun^ 1935 
tration helped students work their way through school. 
Registration this year totalled 2709, an increase of 92 over the registra­tion of last year. The number of graduate students was 64 as com­pared with 62 of last year. Certain benefactions received during the year will enable us to establish new part-time scholarships for graduate study, and probably ten additional graduate students ^vill be aided in this way next year. Graduate study for the Doctor of Philosophy degree is given at present only in the departments of organic chemistry, physical chem­istry, botany, and metallurgy, but through various benefactions we have been able to build up a librarj' in Medieval Philosophy that will justify us in offering work for the doctorate in Medieval Philosophy soon, prob­ably next year. The permanent fund for the Library of Medieval Studies has been increased this year by ad­ditional gifts of 53,300, and now stands at $14,300. 
Cash benefactions received during the year totalled more than $70,000, and gifts of materials, principally for the Ai-t Gallerj', amounted to some $50,000 more. Most of these gifts have been anonymous. While we ad­mire the becoming modesty which an­imates these hidden benefactors, we wish that they might permit us to make them known for the inspiration that their lives might give to others. 
The steam shovel is again busy on the campus, this time preparing for the construction of a new students' infirmary. And it is our firm hope to begin construction on the Eockne Memorial before the students return in September. A suggestion to solicit this summer further contributions for this project vnll be passed on to the Alumni Board at tomorrow's meeting. 
The University has announced for next year a new course in aeronuat­ical engineering, a new major se­quence of studies in politics, and the extension of the architectural course from four years to five. A word should be said about the the new de­partment of politics. Like all in­struction at Notre Dame, it proceeds from principles rather than from cases. It is not intended as a lab­oratory course in the actual processes of goverment. Its purpose is rather to train the student in the funda­mental principles of all government, and so to broaden his view that he can handle particular cases as they arise. At the beginning of their course in the fall, the students will have the benefit of a six weeks' in­tensive course in the principles of government to be given by the Hon. Desmond Fitzgerald, of the Irish Dail. Mr. Fitzgerald, it should be under­stood, YTill not teach Irish politics. His actual position of opposition to President deValera does not enter into the picture. Mr. Fitzgerald is chosen because he is exceedingly well versed in scholastic philosophy, and because during the ten years he spent as minister of defense in Ireland, he applied the principles of St. Thomas to every government question that presented itself, and made a prac­tice of having his findings checked by such men as Jacques Maritain and the Abbe Lallemant. 
Coincidentally, a theorist of an­other school, a man who has recently presented a splendid historical pic­ture of the development of money and credit, will be added to the de­partments of history and economics. He is Christopher HoUis, an Oxford graduate who has been given a leave of absence from Stonyhurst to teach at Notre Dame next year. The fact that his own economic theories are more in line with deValera's than with Fitzgerald's is beside the point. Like Mr. Fitzgerald, Mr. HoUis will teach from principles rather than from cases. You understand what this means. Eternal principles do not change. Our minor premise may be wrong, and we may derive a false conclusion from two correct premises. But we have not to go back so far to correct a mistake if the major prem­ise itself is sound. In matters that are under dispute among the pundits, I do not consider that it is the func­tion of a university to dogmatize re­garding conclusions. If the univer­sity 'becomes a brain trust, it loses much of its effectiveness. If in its instruction in Engineering, for in­stance, it concerns itself largely with shop work, to the neglect of funda­mentals, it turns out machinists in­stead of engineers. If on the other hand, it stresses fundamentals and uses shop work incidentally to illus­trate principles, its graduates are not tied down to the mechanical processes of the moment, but can accommodate themselves to new conditions as these arise. Technical experts are often a drug on the market, but men with broad vision and the courage to back up their convictions are rare enough to be always in great demand. 
Notre Dame has always stood for education in fundamentals, and we find as the days go on that we are less alone in the fight. More and more, people are coming to discover that specialization has been overdone in the universities, and there is an increasing demand for a return to fundamentals. 
And speaking of fundamentals, it might be well at this time to remind the old-timers gathered here tonight that Notre Dame is still the same old school. Religion is still the heart of all its activities; character building still comes first. It is still true that the school prefers a thousand poor but respectable and respected alumni to one worldly success whose goal is hell. Make no mistake about it. If the name of Notre Dame is cherished by hundreds of thousands of people who have never seen this campus, if nuns and old ladies think it no sacri­lege to pray for a touchdown, it is because the clean lives of Notre Dame men who have crossed their path have led them to believe that the men of Notre Dame are in the best sense of the word "Our Lady's Boys." Father Cavanaugh tells me that the number of Holy Communions this year was 317,222, a daily aver­age of 1373, which representes an in­crease over last year of 59 a day, as compared with an increase of 92 in the student body. Daily Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament was extend­ed this year to include the month of October. The other religious activi­ties have gone on as usual, and I have every reason to believe that in time the present generation of stu­dents will lend luster to the name of Notre Dame as have their older brothers in the past. Yesterday morn­ing, I received a beautiful note from a woman, an oflicial of a national Catholic organization. She has made two fleeting visits to the campus, and what she saw caused her to pen these lines: 

"The enclosed stipend is for a Mass to be said at your con­venience for the following inten­tion: That the eflTorts of the 1935 Class in promoting the cause of Catholicity in their re­spective spheres in life may meet with success to a remarkable de­gree for the honor and glory of God. May they be true expon­ents of their University, its steady progress to advance and its teachings and traditions to uphold." 

This lady has phrased thus beautiful­ly the blessing which Notre Dame wishes to bestow on the Class of 1935,_ and when I said Mass this morning, it was my intention to ex­tend that blessing to all the alumni of Notre Dame. 
Catholic Poetry Society 

At the first meeting of the newly established Notre Dame branch of the Catholic Poetry Society of America, Sister M. Madeleva, C.S.C, president of St Mary's College was elected president. The organization, which held its initial meeting in the lay fac­ulty lounge on Wednesday evening. May 15, also elected Professor Nor­bert Engels of the English depart­ment as secretary. 
Nineteen members attended the first meeting. Brief talks were given by the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C, the Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C, the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, James Arm­strong, Louis Hasley and Rufu s Rauch. Sister Madeleva reviewed briefly the history of the Catholic Poetry Society of America. The or­ganization will remain inactive dur­ing the summer months, but will re­sume its program in October. 
ASSOCIATION BRINGS GREATEST YEAR TO CLOSE 
Commencement and Reunions Mark Ending- of Re cord-Breaking Year For the Alumni Association; President Gal-vin's Report Summarizes Major Acti-vities of 1934-35 
Membership: The Association now numbers 7,350 on its mailing list. The present class and the Summer School will make the list for the com­ing year approximately 8,000. 
The ALUMNUS: The alumni maga­

zine has enjoyed one of its best years. 
With the assistance of the manag­ing editor, "William R. Dooley, more time has been allotted to its editing, and the cooperation of classes and clubs has been better than any pre­
•vious year by a wide margin. Three special editions have marked the year. Two of them were memor­ial editions for great Notre Dame alumni—last June for Father O'Don­nell, this May for Father Cayanaugh. The third special edition was issued as an illustrated cross-section of Notre Dame life of today, to aid the alumni in their program of prospect­ive student contacts. Prepared and produced at a cost approximately one-fourth that of similar prospect­uses of other colleges, the Notre Dame ALUMNUS for February was awarded a special blue ribbon at the April convention of the American Alumni Council for its distinctive and effective presentation of Notre Dame to Notre Dame men. The Directory: After much consid­eration and with much modification, the Alumni Directory was issued this year. It has definitely and materially aided the Club organizations, the stu­dent contact program, and alumni ex­change of contacts generally. The cost demanded that only one classifi­cation be published this year. There­fore the geographical list, correspond­ing to the present mailing list of the 
alumni magazine, was determined to be the most practical. 
Universal Notre Dame Night: 

Alumni must generally agree that the Twelfth Annua l Universal Notre Dame Night exceeded any similar occasion. It is difficult to express the margin of difference as returns con­tinue to come into the Alumni Office. 
The national broadcast, made pos­sible by the Studebaker Corporation, keyed the Night for alumni every­where. The cooperation of the Uni­versity and the several alumni who contributed to the hook-up. Father O'Hara, Frank Walker, Eddie Dow-. ling, Elmer Layden, and Joseph Casa­santa and his Glee Club, resulted in the first coast-to-coast program for alumni listeners. 
Supplementing this was the re­markable series of programs on local stations, made possible by the volun­tary cooperation of 132 of these imits, ranging from powerful and far-reaching stations to more modest and isolated agents. Rome, Mexico and Havana stations made this coopera­tion definitely a universal feature. It was in these programs, largely sup­plied by alumni in the several com­mimities and by special literature and music sent out from the Alunrni Of­fice, that the greatest concentration of Notre Dame information for public consumption eve r attempted was achieved. As nearly as returns can be estimated, 25 hours or more of time was contributed by these sta­tions to the Notre Dame observance. Returns of a most enthusiastic type came from such scattered spots as Connecticut, Oregon, Arizona an d Florida. 
Through the activities of an alum­nus, William Castellini, the Phiico radio corporation offered the services of radios for the occasion to all Notre Dame groups desiring their use. 
Local Alumni Clubs: The Notre Dame club has definitely arrived as an institution and is not stopping on its arrival. Two new clubs were or­ganized in 1933-34. This year, 1934­35, six new organizations have been laimched with an atmosphere of per­manence in each. This makes a total of 79 clubs. Two neighboring areas— Berrien County, Michigan, and East-em Indiana—are now units. Jackson, Michigan, and the Saginaw Valley, another Michigan area, were organ­ized. And the Gogebic Range in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, to­gether ^vith the far distant Phoenix, Arizona, alumni, make up the new members of the Local Club Council. All of these organizations made their work felt in their first year of exist­ence. At least two more groups are ready to organize in the Fall. 
The Alumni OfBce, by soliciting the aid of the University and Athletic Association personnel, was able to have -visits from the campus direct to 30 Local Clubs. 
Achievements of the Clubs once more defy adequate summary. But the New York Club's dinner to Father Nieuwland, the Gogebic Range dinner for Elmer Layden and Joe Boland last summer, the St. Joe Valley Club's annual football banquet featuring Will Rogers, the Waterbury, Connec­ticut, broadcast of one hour on 
U.N.D. Night, the Chicago Club's din­ner for Shane Leslie, and the Los Angeles Club's luncheon for Father O'Donnell and Frank Spearman, fol­
lowing the Laetare Medal Presenta­
tion in May, typify the high caliber 
and the nation-wide character of 
alumni activity. 
The printed prospectus for the year 
issued by the Notre Dame Club of 
Chicago, amplifying the same idea 
inaugurated by the Notre Dame Club 
of Cleveland in recent years, sets a 
new stamp of comprehensiveness and 
achievement on the Clubs. 
The Notre Dame speakers commit­tee in the Connecticut Valley scores a new point that is most hopeful. The Lay Retreat at Notre Dame has al­ready aroused specific action for co­operation in three neighboring clubs with the prospect of many more in the Middle West joining this great annual Notre Dame pilgrimage, as Club units. 
Districts: The Districts were or­ganized to stimulate the clubs -within them, for one thing, but strangely the sudden club activity has not elimin­ated the District set-up, but instead has resulted in a growing activity and assistance from the District Gov­ernor both for club and association ends. In the program of student con­tacts the Districts are, and -will con­tinue, to be of very definite aid sup­plementing whatever club acti-vity in this field the District may enjoy. 
Prospective Student Program: The work of the Association, through the Alumni OfSce and the alumni in con­tacting prospective students is diffi­cult to evaluate. But the present school-year saw an increase in enroll­ment, most noticeable in the 20% jump in freshmen. At the present time, freshmen registration for next year is 10% ahead of last year at this date. 
The Alumni Office staff and mem­bers of the University and the Athlet­ic Association were enlisted in school visits and personal interviews during the year. 
One of the outstanding benefits, from the Association's angle, is the current interest of alumni in the progress and present academic ad­vantages at Notre Dame. 
The Alumni Office has edited spe­cial literature for prospective stu­dents during the year, including the illustrated prospectus, occasional news bulletins, and several departmental booklets. 
The Office is supervising a continu­ation in modified form of the guide service that acquainted so many per­sons -with the campus during the last two summers. 
The l^olre 'Dame cAlumnus ]ane, 1935 
Affiliations: The Alumni Secretary attended the national conventions of 
SECOND AERONAUTICAL CONFERENCE HELD 
both the American Alumni Coimcil, 
in Washington, and the National Catholic Alumni Federation, in Chi­cago, participating in the Washington program and planning the program in Chicago. 
Both the Notre Dame Club of the District of Columbia and the Notre Dame Club of Chicago were most effi­cient and cooperative in identifying the Notre Dame interest in these con­ventions. 
Finances: The red blood of our pro­gram seems te have gotten into our inkwells. 
The Association is the possessor of a deficit of some $15,000, which rests on the books of the University. This has accumulated through the years of the depression, particularly the last two, and represents almost ex­clusively the printing and distribution of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. 
This year has shown, in spite of the deficit, a trend toward recovery. 
There has been a 20% increase in the payment of dues. The total num­ber paying is still hopelessly small to achieve independence, but the increase is promising. 
Living Endowment, which has been more or less in the Association's in­cubator since its birth, shows signs of health. Here again the amounts are negligible, but there was almost a 70% increase in the number of givers this year over last, and the amount given was more than doubled. 
Conclusion: In every direction that an annual report of the president should look, alumn i achievement looms in new and larger measure. 
As always, it is no one man's work. But with this personal service here, that personal honor there, this club activity the other place, and the Uni­versity constantly serving as a bril­liant example an d stimulus, the accumulated efltect of the Association is making an impression nationally that our numbers scarcely explain. As a great alumnus said, "When the go­ing gets tough, that's when we fight." 
Tfaompsoniana at N. D. 

Seymour Adelman, noted collector, brought his Francis Thompson collec­tion to Notre Dame for a week begin­ning May 6. This collection is rated second only to the famous Meynell collection of the works of Thompson. The exhibit here was visited by hun­dreds of persons, including the Notre Dame and St. Mary's students and students from Chicago. It was the first exhibit of the collection in the Middle West. Shane Leslie delivered a lecture on the work of Thompson during the week of the exhibit. 
The collection numbers 25 single manuscripts and 20 letters. It is val­ued, as nearly as any standard per­mits, at ?100,000. 
Colonel Eddie Eickenbacker and Major Alford "Al" Williams were the principal speakers at the University's second aeronautics conference held in Washington Hall, Wednesday aft­ernoon. May 15, before more than 600 students and a score of leaders in the American aviation industry. 
The Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the University, opened the conference by outlining the aims of the course in aeronautics in the College of Engineering and the course in airport management in the College of Commerce. Father O'Hara warned the nation to keep ahead of the rest of the world in aviation for com­mercial and defensive purposes. 
Col. Eickenbacker, America's great­est war-time flier and vice- president and general manager of Eastern Air Lines, told of the immense strides made by the fledgling industry and prophesied greater achievements to come. In referring to airmail contract cancellations, he told of the obstacle that politicians have placed in the way of the industry. 
In speaking of the need of young men, he said: "There has never been a time in history when opportunities for young men were so great as they are today." 
Camnpus Editors 

Editors for 1936 of the Scholastic and Dome, Notre Dame publications, were announced at a dinner of staff members of all Notre Dame maga­zines held Monday night May 13 in the lay faculty dining room. 
Ninety guests attended the annual dinner at which Shane Leslie gave the principal address. Th e Rev. Lawrence Broughal, C.S.C, chairman of the board of publications an­nounced John J. Moran, of New York City, as editor of Scholastic and De­lancey J. Davis, of Schenectady, N.Y., as editor of Dotne, the year book. 
The t\vo 525 prizes for excellence in ivriting offered by Scrip, the liter­ary magazine, went to Henry J. Co­zad for his poem, "Johnson's Hill," and in prose the award was split be­tween William A. Kennedy, for his "Late Bus" and Maurice F. Tom­bragel for "Gallery Afternoon." The editor of Scrip ivill be announced at a later date. 
Speakers at the banquet were the Rev. Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C, editor of The Ave Maria, the Eev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, director of radio at Notre Dame, the Rev. James McDon­ald, C.S.C, and the Eev. Leo Ward, C.S.C, members of the board of pub­lications. 
Colonel Eickenbacker predicted that adequate aeronautic development will prevent future wars, that in three years the Atlantic will be spanned by regrular air service, and that sched­uled air transports will fly the Pacific within a year. 
Major Al Williams, one-time star piteher for the New York Giants, crack pilot in both the United States navy and Marine corps, one-time world airplane speed record holder, and now head of the aviation division of the Gulf Refining company, praised the University's planned aeronautics course. He said the industry was cry­ing for trained men. 
Inclement weather in the East, making it impossible for him to fly his Curtiss Hawk biplane here, caused the postponement of his originally scheduled aerobatic exhibition over the campus. He then showed several reels of motion pictures illustrating some of his famous aerial tricks. 
An informal conference at lunch­eon in the faculty dining hall pre­ceded the formal meeting in Wash­ington Hall. Nothing developed which woul d materially change the air course that ivill be added to the cur­riculum next fall. 
John D. Carbine, retiring editor of Scholastic, acted as toastmaster. 
Short talks were given by John W. Walker, retiring editor of Dome and James Byrne, retiring editor of Scrip. 
Dr. Maher Scores 

Dr. Stephen Maher, brilliant Con­necticut scientist, who was awarded the Laetare Medal in 1932, startled the scientific world and raised the hopes of millions recently ivith the announcement that he had discovered a cure for asthma, 90 per cent ef­fective. Despite his 75 years. Dr. Maher continues to be one of the greatest of the physicians and scien­tists of the day, being outstanding for his work in the prevention and cure of tuberculosis. 
N. D. in Jersey City 

A note from the Jersey City Junior C of C, reveals the impressive fact that the president, both vice-presi­dents, and the treasurer are N. D. men---John Driscoll, '32, Jim Clark, '33, Bill Sheridan, '34, George Wenz, '34. Jim Meehan, '32, BiU Hawks, '33, and Murry Booth, '33, complete the roster of N. D. men who have brought real leadership to this particular Jer­sey organization. 
Jun^ 1935 The l^otre 'Dame c4lumnus 
OFFICERS OF ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
1935-1936  
Honorary President  Albert F. Zahm, '83  Director  Hugh A. O'Donnell, '94  
President '.  Bernard J. VoU, 17  Director  Fred L. Steers, '11  
First Vice-President  Albert J. Galen, '96  Director  James E. Deery, '10  
Second Vice-President  George N. Shuster, '15  Director  Don P. O'Keefe, '03  
Secretary-Treasurer  James E. Armstrong, '25  Director  (ex-officio)  Timothy P. Galvin, '16  
Assistant Secretary  William R. Dooley, '26  Director (one year) To be elected by the Class of '35  

GOVERNORS AND LIEUTENANT GOVERNORS 
District I 

(Northern Ind. and Southwestern Mich. Governor—John W. Schindler, '09, Mishawaka, Ind. Lxeut.-Gov.—Ale-xis Coquillard, '03, South Bend, Ind. 
District II 

(Chicago) Governor—James A. Ronan, '26, Chicago, 111. L{c!tt.-Goi;.—Fred L. Steers, '11, Chicago, 111. 
District III 

(Ohio, Western Pa., and W. Va.) Governor—Henry F. Barnhart, '23, Lima, Ohio Lient.-Gov.—Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
District IV 

(Minn., Wis., and Northern Mich.) Governor—Henry Lauerman, '23, Menominee, Mich. Lieut.-Gov.—Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, Minneapolis, Mmn. 
District V 

(Mich, except Northern and Southwest) Gouernor—John T. Higgins, '23, Detroit, Mich. Lieut.-Gov.—Dr. John T. Burns, '13, Kalamazoo, Mich. 
District VI 

(N.J., Eastern Pa., Del., and D.C.) Governor—August G. Desch, '23, Philadelphia, Pa. Lieut.-Gov.—S. K. Wingerter, '26, East Orange, N. J. 
District VII 

(New York City) Governor—Edward A. Fallon, '26, New York City Lieut.-Gov.—Bvish. A. O'Donnell, '94, New York City 
District VIII 

(New York—except New York City) Goueriior^Gerald Ashe, '22, Rochester, N. Y. Lieut-Gov.—John J. Huether, '22, Schenectady, N. Y. 
District IX • 

(New England) Gouenior—John Robinson, '28, Waterbury, Conn. Z,ieitt.-Goi;.—Thomas Collins, '28, Fall River, Mass. 
District X 

(Va., North and South Carolina) Gouervior—Frank A. Reese, '25, Raleigh, North Carolina Lieitt.-Gou.—Anselra Miller, '25, Roanoke, Va. 
District XI 

(Alabama, Georgia, and Florida) Gouenior—Matthew O'Brien, '31, Tampa, Fla. iieut.-Gou.—Frank W. Thomas, '23, Tuscaloosa, Ala. 
District XII 

(Ky., Southern Ind. and Tenn.) Governor—Hugh M. Magevney, '25, Memphis, Tenn. Lieut.-Gov.—^William Reisert, Jr., '29, Louisville, Ky. . 
District XIII 

(La., Miss, and Arkansas) Governor—Lawrence Hennessey, '27, Vicksburg, Miss. Lieut.-Gov.—Cyprian Sporl, Jr., '28, New Orleans, La. 
District XIV 

(Texas) Governor—^William Grady, '17, Dallas, Texas Lieut.-Go!?.—D. Patrick Buell, '24, Dallas, Texas 
District XV 

(Kansas, Mo., Okla., and So. 111.) Governor—John M. Dugan, '27, Kansas City, Mo. LicHt.-Goi;.—Norbert Skelley, '25, Tulsa, Okla. 
District XVI 

(No. 111., Iowa and Neb.) Governor—Sherwood Dixon, '20, Dixon, 111. Lient.-Gov.—Clarence Ruddy, '27, Aurora, 111. 
District XVII 

(Mont., Wyo., No. Dakota and So. Dakota) Governor—George A. McGee, '01, Minot, No. Dakota Lieut.-Gov.—Earl W. Brown, '93, Helena, Mont. 
District XVIII 

(Utah and Colorado) Governor—^Robert Fox, '01, Denver, Colo. Lieut.-Gov.—James P. Logan, '18, Denver, Colo. 
District XIX 

(So. Calif., Ariz., New Mexico and El Paso area) Governor—Thomas H. Heam, '15, Los Angeles, Calif. Lieut.-Gov.—Julius J. Danch, '25, Phoenix, Arizona 
District XX 

(Northern Calif, and Nevada) Goueraor—E. P. Carville, '09, Elko, Nev. Lieut.-Gov.—^W. Breen McDonald, '17, San Francisco, Cal. 
•District XXI 

- (Wash., Oregon and Idaho) Governor—^Walter M. Daly, '04, Portland Ore. Lieut.-Gov.—Samuel M. Dolan, '10, North Bend, Oregon 
District XXII 

(Foreign) Governor—Julius Arce, '99, Buenos Aires, Argentine, S.A. 
SUGGESTIONS FOR GOOD FAMILY READING 
THE FORTY DAYS OF MUSA DAGH. By Franz Werfel. Trans­lated by Geoffrey Dunlap. The Viking Press. ?3.00. 
This gripping novel, based on an historical episode, is an epic of racial persecution. Visiting his birthplace in Syria, Gabriel Bagradian, a wealthy Armenian \vith his French wife, Juliette, and Stephen, their fourteen-year old son, is deprived of his passport back to France and set­tles down with his family in the an­cestral villa below Musa Dagh, the mountain of Moses. Here they are trapped. The World War comes on, and the Tm-kish government deter­mines upon the annihilation of its Armenian subjects, superior to the Turk, their master, in culture and commercial genius. 
Without warning, some i5%'e thou­sand Armenian inhabitants of seven peaceful villages in Northern Syria receive orders to leave their homes taking with them only what can be carried on their backs. Before them lies a death-dealing trek of a thou­sand miles eastward through the des­ert to Derez-zor. 
The scholarly idealistic Gabriel Bagradian, educated at the Sorbonne, finds himself turning completely Ar­menian, as he witnesses the oppres­sion of his countrymen. He binds himself to accept his people's fate. Now an officer in a reserve regiment and possessor of twenty-three years of European experience, he accepts the leadership of his persecuted brethren. He urges them not to sub­mit to Turkish crueltj'. They vote to defend even to death, their Chris­tian faith (Orthodox), as well as their lives and property. 
Musa Dagh nearby is a natural fortress. Gabriel Bagradian maps it out and mobilizes the villagers. Turk­ish officers arrive to enforce a decree only to find the villages emptj' and 3Iusa Dagh, a fortified refuge. Huts have been built, a military govern­ment organized, men and older boys armed and entrenched on the summit of Musa Dagh. Here i^-ith supreme effort amid unspeakable sufferings, the courageous, poorly-equipped Ar­menians defy and humiliate their Turkish oppressors. After forty days of desperate fighting the Armenians are rescued by a French battleship. 
Several underplots add to the in­terest: the moral weaknesses of Ga­briel and Juliette; the heroism of the son, Stephen; the intercession of the German missionary. Dr. Lepsius; the insurrection just as the French ship arrives. 
Franz Werfel, the author is a Jew, recently converted to the Roman Catholic Faith. His work, so just in its interpretation, is barely tolerated by the German government. 
Sr. M. Elizabeth, O.S.U., '21. 

SAGA OP THE SAINTS — Sigrid Undset. New York. Longman's, Green and Company, 1934. ?2.50. 
The modem hagiographer has suc­
ceeded in arousing in his readers an 
intense interest in the human side of 
the many lovable men and women 
who have been canonized as a result 
of their holiness. In her Saga of the 
Saints, Sigrid Undset, the Norwegian 
writer whose conversion to the Cath­
olic faith is still fresh in our mem­
ory, tells us with beauty and power 
of the way in which Norway was 
Clu-istianized. We read eagerly of 
the great King Olav Hai-aldsson who 
"by his life, his kingship, and his 
death gave the Faith to Norway"; of 
St. Sunniva, the beautiful Irish queen 
at whose shrine in Nidaros today 
miracles are still being performed; 
of St. Magnus to whom Aberdeen 
does honor. 
And in bringing her Saga up to a later date, the autor recounts the deeds of the holy Bamabite priest. Father Karl Schilling, whose death occuiTed in 1907. It is in him that the Catholics of Norway are placing their hope. 
For those who love courage in holi­ness and true courtesy, this volume of Sigrid Undset's will bring much de­light. 
THOJIAS MORE—Christopher HoUis. Bruce Publishing Company, Mil­waukee, 1934. 52.25. 
The fact that the whole Catholic world is looking forward this year to the canonization of this "merry man and saint" ought to interest all of us in Christopher HoUis' New Life of Thomas More. Mr. Hollis lets us see Blessed More as 'a wise and kindly father, a saintly, but never solemn. Christian, a trustworthy statesman, a loyal friend, and, above all, a man of courage whose high sense of right and justice eventually led him to die a martyr's death on the executioner's block." 
Mr. Hollis will teach at Notre Dame during the coming year. By Sister M. Vivia, O.S.B. 
THE LAYJIAN'S NEW TESTA­MENT — Edited -with notes by Fr. Hugh Pope, O.P. Sheed and Ward. N. Y. 1934. ?1.50. 
This work comes as an answer to the ever growing demand for an ex­planatory edition of the New Testa­ment. With the student and with the ordinary reader, it proffers to be an established favorite because of its completeness and compactness. 
The notes, the all important fea­ture of the book and constituting fully half the volume are allotted the right-hand pages throughout. They are numbered, paragraphed and so arranged as to help interested lay-folk to read the New Testament in­telligently; as well as to enlighten and guide those who are better equipped. Enough theological teaching is brought to point that the average reader may find the notes sufficient. 
The text of the New Testament given on the left-hand pages, and opposite the notes, is presented in an unusual form and a convenient one, as regards paragraphs, while the numbering of the verses is retained. These paragraphs represent sections, as in the case of the gospel narra­tives, or steps in argument, as in the instance of the epistles. Briefly an­notated in the outside margin of the page are the contents of these sec­tions, together Avith some cross ref­erences. 
A key to the storehouse of notes is supplied in neai'ly fifty pages of index, somewhat akin to a miniature concordance. There is offered a com­parative outline scheme indicating what matter is treated by each evan­gelist, their agreement in the main, and their marked peculiarities. Pre­facing the several books are short in­troductions, giving an account of the author, the historical setting and the scope of the writing. Two simple out­line maps are provided, one of Pales­tine supplementing the Gospels; and another of Asia as an auxiliary to the Acts. 
(Ed. Note: Alumni who do not have the catalog of the publications of the Ave Maria Press are missing some splendid things for themselves, their friends, and their families. Par­ticularly good are the books and pam­phlets for children. Through it all runs the strong, rich Notre Dame spirit of its origin.) 
June, 1935 The l^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 273 
ANNOUNCE LAYMEN'S RETREAT, AUGUST 1-4 
Clubs and Individual Notre Dame Men Responding to Seventeeth Annual Campus Retreat; Chicago 
Club Has Special Committee, As Have Several Neighboring Clubs 
Early returns from the announce­participation has been outrunning sees in attendance an ever increasing alumni. number of serious, sincere men who 
ment of the 17th Annual Laymen's The suggestion that the problem be are as busy as you are and who per­Retreat at Notre Dame, beginning approached on a specific alumni basis haps, have just as many responsi­
Thursday evening, August' 1, and end­met with the immediate response bilities and temptations. From every ing with the famous Retreat Break-above. walk of life, they come and from 
The Famous Outdoor Retreat—Father Hart preaching in the Grotto. 
fast on Sunday morning, August 4, point to an important new element— participation by Notre Dame alumni. 
The action of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in appointing a Lay Re­treat Committee to cooperate ^vith the campus institution met enthusiastic reception, within the club and from outside. 
The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley is appointing a com­mittee and the Notre Dame Club of Berrien County has decided to take similar action. Undoubtedly, the other nearby clubs ^vill follow suit. 
This alumni activity is supplement­ary to the great work that has been accomplished in the Middle West dur­ing the 16 years that the Retreat has existed. Veterans of the annual visit to the campus include both alumni and non-alumni. This past year or so, the Holy Cross Mission fathers, whose home is the cradle of the University, and who conduct the Retreat, have felt that non-alumni enthusiasm and 
The literature of the Retreat con­tains several very interesting para­graphs: 
"For the past 17 years we have been conducting retreats at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame for the bene­fit of Catholic Laymen. Each year 
Organ in Sacred Heart Church 

man y distant cities —^ physicians, judges, lawyers, heads of important industries, workers from every craft. 
"Many of these men have not missed a single retreat in all this time. Yet •with each succeeding year they find new strength and greater spiritual happiness from the prayer­ful, restful quiet of these week-ends spent for God." 
In addition to the spiritual bene­fits and the physical relaxation that come to the non-alumni, alumni have all the added incentive of a return to the familiar campus, and the renewal of the spiritual life that they enjoyed as students. They see again many of the spiritual councillors whose early guidance probably formed a lasting influence, and who have much more than the usual missioner's power in renewing these counsels of faith. 
Small w^onder that the 17th Annual Retreat is anticipating a large alumni attendance. 
For the three days room and meals, a collection is taken up Sunday at which the retreatant is asked, if he can afford it, to contribute the cost; minimum of ten dollars. 
Pictorial High-lights of the Commencement of '35 
CEREMONIES MARK PRESENTATION OF 1935 LAETARE MEDAL 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., '16, Awards Medal to Frank H. Spearman in Blessed Sacrament Auditorium, Hollywood; Bishop Cantwell, Joseph Scott Participate 
In the brief but beautiful cere­monies of presentation, Frank Hamil­ton Spearman, Laetare Medalist for 1935, received the coveted award of the University from the hands of Most Rev. John J. Cantivell, D. D., with the vice-president of the Univ­ersity, Eev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C., and an audience of 900 friends of Mr; Spearman and the University looking on. 
The ceremonies took, place in the auditorium of the school of the Bless­ed Sacrament parish in Hollywood, where Dr. Spearman (LL.D.'IT) is a parishioner, on May 26. 
Among the guests were Very Eev. Zacheus Maher, S.J., provincial of the Society of Jesus; Eev. Hugh Duce, S.J., president of Loyola of Los Angeles; Rev. Cornelius McCoy, rector of the Church of the Blessed Sacrament, and Rev. Edward J. Whe­lan, S.J., president of Loyola High School. 
Joseph Scott, LL.D.'15, delivered the principal address, characterizing the Laetare Medal as a wise anticipa­tion of the present Catholic Action. 
The University's citation, addressed to Dr. Spearman by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, follows: 
In the year of Our Lord eighteen hundred and eighty-three, the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross, founder and first president of the University of Notre Dame, established the Laetare Medal as an award made annually to some American lay Catho­lic who in his particular field of en­deavor had achieved such distinction as reflects glory upon the Catholic Faith. The list of men and women so honored in these past fifty years amply illustrates the inspiration which that Faith has brought into all departments of thought and of human life, — into philosophy and literature, the arts and the sciences, into the learned professions and into public service, whether in time of peace or in time of war. 
Sir, in this year of Our Lord 1935 the University of Notre Dame be­stows the Laetare Medal upon you. The Medal is an award and a trust: an award for devotion to Faith, to Truth, to Service, to Beauty; a trust, confident and abiding, that you, who for so long have put your hands to the plow, will not fum back until you have finished the furrow. 
It puts no tax upon imagination to picture you, Frank H. Spearman, as one of the many in the field of fiction whose chief distinction would be mass sales and popular acclaim. To achieve these things was easily within your competence. Others less gifted have achieved them. But being the essence that you are, you would not be an essence less noble. You set yourself to express art within the covers of books; to delight and to enlarge people spiritually; and no temptation to mere worldly success has turned you from that pursuit. You have sent to us from your commerce in ideals brave men and beautiful women, fashioned out of the substance of your thoughts. You could have traded otherwise, dealing in less worthy values with an eye to the fictional market. You did not do so, because you could not. You would not have more, if you yourself could not be more. You lost the life to save it. What doth it profit a man to gain the world and lose his soul? 
You seem to us a man who sought to Influence the masses wholesomely rather than to capture mass acclaim; to resist the shapeless, hopeless, un­govemed fictional writing of our peri­od rather than be swept out on its turgid stream. You have traded only in the truth that makes free, the love that makes holy. We see you, then, one of a select company, calm and apart in the undisturbed possession of the dreams of your own mind. The people of your books are the children of your thinking. And it must be a comforting memory for you, as it is an inspii-ing reflection for us, that you need never be ashamed of your spiritual offspring. 
The University of Notre Dame has penetrated your solitude to recognize your service. The wholesome men and women whom you have created pleaded your worthiness with even more eloquence than your thousands of friends, clerical and lay. Whisper­ing Smith, Don Juan of Austria—so far apart in time, place, race, and circumstance of life—pleaded for you. They are here now. And all your mind's children are here, as we are, —to honor you. 
Sir, in a simple ritual which reach­es into a far tradition, you are to be admitted into the Honor Roll of Laetare Medalists. There are high, shining names of great men, great women in this litany of renown: John Gilmary Shea, pioneering Catholic historian; Daniel Dougherty and William Bourke Cochran and Joseph Scott, resounding orators; John B. Murphy, world famous surgeon; Mary V. Herrick, to whom the plaint of a child was the cry of the Christ Child;Alfred Emmanuel Smith, vali­ant Happy Warrior whose mounting courage makes us joyous and proud forever; John McCormack whose golden voice has touched the hearts of the American people; and many, many more. 
Into this company the University of Notre Dame now invites you, Frank H. Spearman. She is proud and glad to invite you. Proud be­cause she knows, as you know, that merit alone has determined her choice; glad because with her steady vision she has seen you in your soli­tude, not as one clothed in soft gar­ments, but as an announcer of the ancient realities of faith, love, home and family life. 
And so, Frank H. Spearman, the University of Notre Dame bestows her Laetare Medal upon you. She knows that in you she has again found one who expresses the reality of what the Laetare Medal is, a rec­ognition and a symbol. And she prays you. Sir, to keep it always among your best loved treasures in a shrine apart. 
Dr. Spearman gave a short, brilli­ant address of acceptance. 


Acceptance of the Laetare Medal 
I am called to receive at the hands of a great cultural institution a sym­bol which necessarily imposes on its recipient a sense of the honor and the dignity for which the University of Notre Dame has so long been revered. 
I count it as one of the rare priv­ileges of my life to have made, many years ago, the acquaintance of Notre Dame. Far from being strangers to each other, we have cherished a friendship long mellowed by the ten­der hand of time, and never at any moment strained. 
My first contribution to a Catholic periodical was sent to Father Daniel Hudson who for fifty years guided the destinies of the Ave Maria mag­azine and who used his great power to encourage and develop the strug­gling Catholic writer of his day. It was through him that a second precious friendship was formed by me with a young president of Notre Dame—^Father John Cavanaugh, who, building on the sure foundations of his saintly predecessors, gave us, more than any other one man, our far-famed Notre Dame of today. 
This is not the moment to dwell at 

length on the signal success won— amid so many difficulties—by the de­voted faculties and teachers who have made the Notre Dame that we know. But the fondest boast of its alumni may well be that this outstanding position in American education has been achieved without surrendering one jot or tittle to the false educa­tional creeds that threaten, now so menacingly, the reputation of too many of our more pretentious insti­tutions of learning. 
Sturdy as an oak, while American education through the years has been tempest-tossed, Notre Dame has turned out and continues to turn out sterling young American citizens, un­tainted by false moral standards and untouched by the destructive theories of Mars and Engel. 
I accept, therefore, this dear and high honor with mingled feelings; first, one of gratitude to this great school which, overlooking my own deficiencies, has so generously sum­moned me to be numbered among its distinguished medalists; and next, with a feeling of the responsibility which its acceptance must entail on a recipient. For fifty years Laetare medalists have borne high the spirit and the honor of their Alma Alater, the University of Notre Dame. 
This medal of Laetare Sunday is the symbol of an honor roll which up to this hour stands without a single defection from the highest and best. To this the records of Notre Dame will attest. And it is conferred, I am reminded, not alone as a mark of re­ward for what has been accomplished in life: but also as an incentive to higher achievement. Thus in award­ing it, this great institution inevitably makes itself sponsor for the future recipient and this in turn calls for the highest effort on my part to carry without blemish the symbol of my Alma Mater. 
To this purpose I therefore pledge myself tonight: That I may do noth­ing by spoken or written word to dim the lustre of this prized token. 
And may I not beg from your Excellency; from you, dear Father O'Donnell, and from my benefactors of Notre Dame, a prayer, that in so high and serious an endeavor I may not fail. 
Frank H. Spearman. 
The following day. May 27, the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles tendered a luncheon to the Medalist and to Father O'Donnell in the Univ­ersity Club. Dr. Spearman, Father O'Donnell and Joseph Scott were again the speakers, with President Thomas Heam presiding. 
Dooley 111 
Not the least of Commencement's complications was an attack of the mumps suifered by William R. Dooley, '26, managing editor of the ALUMNUS, on Sunday, June 2, which still has him confined but convalescent. 

SUMMER SCHOOL OPENING, TUESDAY JUNE 18 
The 17th summer session of the University will open on Tuesday, June 18. Graduate and undergraduate work is offered by all the depart­ments in the College of Arts and Let­ters and by all departments in the College of Science. A few courses, will be offered by the Colleges of Law, Engineering and Commerce, of interest to students in Arts and Let­ters and Science, who may take any of these courses as elective for credit toward the -A.rts or Science degrees. 
The summer session is designed to interest, primarily, teachers in private or public schools, persons holding the bachelor's degree who wish to secure 
'31 Ordinations June 24 
The Notre Dame campus on June 24 will be the site of the annual or­dination of the new priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
All of the men this year are of the 
A.B.s. of '31: Richard Patrick, Charles Carey, Thomas Jones, John Dupuis, Joseph Houser, Edward Shea, Philip Schaerf, George Szymanowsld, Joh n O'Neil, Aloysius Dayberry, Lawrence Bauer, Claude Boehm, Al­fred Mendez, Patrick Duffy, Francis Sullivan, Thomas Culhane, Clement Kane, Thomas Fitzpatrick and Fran­cis Weber. 
Breen Medal Awarded 
The famous Breen Medal in ora­tory was awarded this year to Rob­ert J. Schmelzle, Freeport, 111., for his oration, "My Brother's Keeper." Seven contestants entered the finals in Washington Hall on the night of May 20. Tied for second were John Logan of Fort Wayne, and William Fiewager of Menasha, Wis. Other contestants were Richard White of South Bend, Thomas J. Schiefer of Fort Wayne, Emil J. Peter of Louis­ville, and Edward L. Boyle of Duluth. 
The medal, presented by the late William P. Breen, '77, of Ft. Wayne, has served for years as the key to the stimulation of student oratory, a field in which Mr. Breen himself excelled. 
Bishop Noll Honored 
Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., LL.D., '15, Bishop of Fort Wayne, was honored on the tenth anniver­sary of his elevation to the episcopacy by the first deanery Eucharistic cele­bration in the Notre Dame Stadium on Sunday, May 26. 
All of the parishes, the University Band, the St. Mary's student body, and the C. Y. 0., were among the participants. Bishop Noll officiated at Benediction and afterward gave a an advanced degree, and undergrad­uates with academic deficiencies. 

Tuition for the summer session is thirty dollars. Board and room are twelve dollars a week. 
The ALUMNUS can not refrain from the suggestion that this six weeks, for the cost of it, offers an. alumnus who has the time and $100, the finest moral, mental and physical vacation, within anything like the price range, in the United States. Lake for swimming, tennis courts, golf course, comfortable rooms, good meals . . . even if you didn't pass the course . . . the spiritual and intel­lectual stimulus of it! 
Bidwill in Controversy-

Arthur J. Bidwill, '26, elected last November to the Illinois senate, was ousted recently by a vote of that body which has stirred the voters of Illi­nois, particularly in Bidwill's district. Bidwill, a Republican, was seated aft­er a contest which resulted in a recount, and the unseating came as a surprise. The controversy is still rag­ing, as this note is ^vritten. 
JOBS 

'32 graduate, competent secretary, desires connection. A.B. degree, grad­uate business institute. 
'26 graduate, E.E. degree and mas­ter's from M.I.T., anxious to get into the engineering end of electrical man­ufacturing industry. Excellent exper­ience. 
'26 graduate, B.C.S., also LL.B. de­gree holder, desires work as assistant to executive. Has had valuable expe­rience in managerial, sales and sales promotion, accounting, credit and col­lection work in the automotive and petroleum products fields. 
Opening — A fine Notre Dame in­surance firm in Chicago is anxious to secure a young graduate interested in making insurance a career. 
For information on any of the above items, write James E. Arm­strong, Box 81, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Lay Trustees Meet 

The Board of Lay Trustees held its annual Spring meeting at the Univer­sity on Friday, May 10. 
Present were Very Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C., Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., Brother Ephrem, C.S.C,, By­ron V. Kanaley, Miles O'Brien, Frank 
E. Bering, Peter Reilly, George M. Anson, John F. Gushing, Edward J. Doyle, John P. Murphy, and Frank 
W. Uoyd, comptroller. 
BRILLIANT SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY IN NOTRE DAME LABORATORY 
Lay Faculty Award Climaxes Recent Announcements of Discoveries Which May Hasten Cure of In­
f2uitile Paralysis, Colds and Influenza 
Prof. James Arthur Reyniers, B.S., '30, M.S., '31, assistant professor of biology in the College of Science of the University, winner of the Alumni Association's annual |500 lay faculty award at the recent commencement, has won nation-wide attention. 
An important biological experi­ment, which has puzzled scientists for more than 50 years and may lead eventually to the isolation of the germs which cause colds, influenza and infantile paralysis, has been suc­cessfully completed at Notre Dame. 
After six years of constant labor­atory work. Prof. Reyniers has suc­ceeded in obtaining absolutely germ free guinea pigs and in raising them without contamination by germ-life of any kind. 
The importance of this work lies in the fact that it permits a study of any single germ on a living organism, until now considered impossible. Most scientists hitherto have contended that life in an animal body was im­possible without bacteria. 
Moreover, it was this presence of many forms of germ life which has interfered seriously with the isola­tion in the past of the germs which cause many of the most current hu­man ailments and, consequently, no serums oi: other effective preventives have yet been developed. 
Prof. Reynier's "living test tubes," as he refers to the animals, are bom and raised under the most ideal con­ditions which science can devise. The guinea pigs are delivered in a germ free operating chamber, by Caesarian operation, to avoi d contamination from the mother, and raised in a com­pletely air-conditioned chamber with­out ever coming in contact with the outside world. 
They feed themselves from a "glass mother," imbibing a synthetic guinea pig milk prepared by Prof. Reyniers. The solid food they are permitted aft­er the first few days is sterilized in an antechamber of their Utopian home before it is placed in the pens. 
The compartment in which the pigs live, and all the attendant apparatus, including the air-conditioning equip­ment, have been made in the Univer­sity laboratories under Prof. Rey­niers' supervision. 
The guinea pig estate occupies an area of 64 square feet and contains model living quarters for eight of the rodents. The compartment in which they live resembles a square diving bell, four feet high, with portholes in each side to permit inspection of the germ free inhabitants. 
In addition, there are two ports, containing sterilized rubber gloves, through which Prof. Reyniers can in-
PROF. J. A. REYNIERS, '30 
Fulfils Pasteur's Dream 

sert his hands to care for his charges clean the cages, fill the milk and water bottles, and examine the pigs periodically for any sign of contamin­ation. 
From each litter raised in this manner, he has saved one or two off­spring to develop as normal controls. Constant comparisons show that the germ free animals are more active and develop much heartier appetites than their contaminated brothers and sisters. 
Attempts to develop a "living germ free test tube" have been made since Pasteur first suggested the experi­ment in 1880. Since then reports on the subject have been submitted by Kuster, Cohendy, Thierfelder, Glira­stedt, and Prof. Reyniers in 1931. 
With the development of this new technique, it is felt that it becomes possible for scientists to begin work in research fields which were once considered impossible of access. 
Twenty-six years old. Prof. Reyn­iers was bom in Mishawaka, Indiana. He is a rather high-strung lype, com­pletely immersed in his scientific work. When an important experiment is in progress, he will frequently spend almost the entire night, in the laboratory, watching developments and fearful lest something go wrong if he should leave. 
This habit caused a mild scare and a subsequent laugh on the campus several years ago. A new watchman saw the shadow of a man moving about in the laboratory, called local police and raided the science building. Dr. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean of the College of Science, was roused at 2 a.m. to identify his assist­ant. 
His hobby is the drawing and mak­ing of archery tackle. He was an ex­cellent marksman during his under­graduate days but is now mainly interested in technical angles of the sport. 
'3S PRIZE AWARDS 

The principal prizes and honors an­nounced on Class Dky are as follows: Breen Medal—Robert Schmelzle, Ft. 
Wayne, Ind. Meehan Medal—Maurice Tombragel, New York City. 
Dockweiler Prize ($50 for Philosophy Essay)—Paul Beichner, C.S.C. Col. Hojmes Award (?100 for excel­
lence in law) — John A. Berry, Streator, HI. Sinnott Meyers Burse (530 for excel­lence in journalism)—Frederick Shanley, South Bend. 
G. A. Farabaugh Prize ($25 for schol­astic record in law)—John Towne, South Bend 
Byron V. Kanaley Award (most ex­emplary athlete)—^Dominic Vairo, Calumet, Mich. 
Jeanne 6.'Axe Medal for French — Robert Forbes, New Rochelle. 
Gertrude SoUitt Prize ($50 for solu­tion architectural problem)—^Ar­nold Morrison, Rochester, N. Y. 
J. J. O'Brien Prize ($50 for excellence in shopwork) — Wesley Strehl, Memphis, Tenn. 
Miles O'Brien Prize ($50 for mechan­ical drawing)—John Krebser, Ko-. komo. 
William Mitchell Award ($50 for playwriting) — William "Tourney, New York City. 
Architecture Medal (highest average in course) — Armand Kellogg, Rock Springs, Wyo. 
Electrical Engineering Medal (Gift of 
J. A. Caparo)—Albert Vitter, New Orleans, La. Martin McCue C.E. Medal — Victor Weigand, Barberton, Ohio 
Ralph SoUitt Prize ($50 for special design)—John Tingley, Norwich, Conn. 
NEW STUDENT'S INFIRMARY BUILDING CONSTRUCTION STARTED 
Building Marks Inauguration of Development of Csonpus North of Main Building; Thomas Hickey, N. D. Contractor, Has Job; Building Harmonizes With New Architecture. 
Continuing its program for con­struction of new buildings to stimu­late a return to normal business con­ditions, the University of Notre Dame will erect a new Students' Infirmary this summer at a cost of $250,000. 
Work on the new building, which vrill be situated between the Adminis­tration Building and the shores of St. Joseph Lake, was started May 27. 
It is also hoped that construction of the Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse can begin before the opening of classes next September. 
The Infirmary will be of Collegiate Gothic design to harmonize ^\ith the residence halls and class buildings which have been erected during the past decade. There will be living ac­commodations for 125 persons TOth guest rooms for parents and other visitors to the campus. 

Location of the Infirmary marks another step in the expansion of Notre Dame. It will be the first build­ing on the site of a new quadrangle facing St. Joseph Lake, and takes ad­vantage of one of the most beautiful scenic attractions of the university. 
Plans were drawn by Maginnis and Walsh, architects of Boston, Mass., and the Thomas L. Hickey Co., of South Bend, Ind., are the general con­tractors. 
ROCKNE PAINTING AT NOTRE DAME 
After traveling from New York City to Princeton University, and back to New York City again, the original painting of a cover used on Street and Smith Publications Sport Story Magazine memorial edition to Knute Rockne has come into the pos­session of the University of Notre Dame through the efforts of John L. Nanovic, '30, and Maurice T. An­drews, '17, whose N.D. novel it illus­trated. 
The painting will be temporarily on display in the Alumni Ofiice imtil a permanent place is found for it. 
In the painting the artist, Joseph Farrelly, uses a ring of deep blue to frame the characteristic Rockne quiz­zical squint as the "Old Master" peers down from a sky blue background upon a iine bit of football action showing two blue-jerseyed players bringing down a green-shirted ball carrier whose three man interference has been spilled on the turf by a third "blue" player. The realistic action of the football group and the fine de­tail of the Rockne head are the out­standing features of the painting. A copper plate on the brown frame bears the fo]lo\ving inscription: "In Mem­ory of Knute Rockne. Street & Smith Publications, Inc." 
This same Rockne memorial edition of the Sport Story Magazine featured "The Juggler of Notre Dame," a story centering about Rockne, written by Maurice T. Andrews, a Notre Dame man. 

John L. Nanovic, editor of the Jiig­gler in 1930, and now on the editorial staif of the Street & Smith Publica­tions, was formerly editor of the Sports Story Magazine but now has charge of The Shadow Magazine, Doc Savage Magazine, Nick Carter Magazine, and Pete Rice Magazine. Along with his brother Albert, '27, John was present at the commence­ment exercises this year to see his "kid" brother, Joseph graduated and to attend the dix reunion of the Class of 1930. 
June, 1935 The 'T^otre 'Dame cAlumnus 
BY DIREaOR OF JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 ATHLETIC PUBUCny 
ATHLETICS 
ATHLETIC TEAMS HAVE .667 AVERAGE •34-'35 
Coming down the commencement week stretch in a blaze of glory, No­tre Dame's athletic teams finished the scholastic year with a .667 percent­age, having won exactly two-thirds of their dual contests in 1934-35. 
The track team added another state championship, its first since 1931, to its long list. The golf team won its fifth Indiana team championship in six years, while Winfield Day, Jr., w^as giving Notre Dame it's sixth in­dividual title in as many seasons. The tennis team had won the state doubles championship the week before, with Joe Prendergast entering the semi­finals in the singles. These accom­plishments, of course, do not count in the dual-match percentages. 
The baseball team concluded its season in true commencement game style, ^^^th Andy Pilney playing the Frank Merriwell role. Pilney scored the first run for Notre Dame to tie the score against JMichigan State. Then, in the 10th inning, he broke the deadlock when he slammed out a hit with three mates aboard to give the Irish a 2 to 1 victory. He also en­abled Joe Beach, New Orleans south­paw, to finish his season undefeated, with four victories beside his name in the record book. 
Since this is a summary, we offer herewith the standings of the various teams for the past year: 
Won Lost Pet.  
Fencing  7  0  1.000  
Golf  9  1  .900  
Track  8  1  .889  
Football  6  3  .667  
Baseball  11  7  .611  
Basketball  13  9  .591  
Tennis  3  5  .375  
Cross-CountiT  1  3  .250  

And here are the scores, in the or­der of the percentage of the various teams: 

Fencing 

Notre Dame, 11; Washington U., 6 Notre Dame, 12; Purdue, 5 Notre Dame, 11; Northwestern, 6 Notre Dame, 9; Wittenberg, 5 Notre Dame, 10; Ohio State, 7 Notre Dame, 9; Cincinnati, 8 Notre Dame, 11; Purdue, 4 
Golf 

Notre Dame, 18; St. Viator, 0 Notre Dame, 11% ; Purdue, 6% 
Noti-e Dame, 17%; Wayne, % Notre Dame, 14; Detroit, 4 Notre Dame, 15; Detroit, 3 Notre Dame, 16%; Chicago, 1% Notre Dame, 10%; Wisconsin, 7% Northwestern, 11% ; Notre Dame, 9% Notre Dame, 7% ; Michigan State, 4% Notre Dame, 12% ; Pittsburgh, 5% 
In the State meet, Notre Dame, 1,282; Indiana, 1,351; Ball State Teachers, 1,475; Indiana State Teach­ers, 1,485. 
Notre Dame's entrants finished as follows in the individual standings: Winfield Day, Jr., first, 302; William Cole, second, 312; Lou Fehlig, third, 313; Capt. John Banks, fourth, 317; Pat Malloy, fifth, 321; Louis Lange, eighth, 334; Harry Baldwin, eleventh, 
351. The four-man team, named be­fore the tournament, consisted of Day, Cole, Banks, and Baldwin. 
"The Irish ^rill be represented by Day, Banks, Cole, Malloy, and Bald­^\'in at the National Intercollegiate tournament at the Congi-essional Country Club, Eoclnille, Md., June 24 to June 29. 
Track 

(Indoor) Notre Dame, 65; Chicago, 39 Notre Dame, 48; Marquette, 47 Notre Dame, 51; Iowa, 35 Notre Dame, 71%; Illinois, 32% 
Central Intercollegiate conference meet at Notre Dame — Pittsburgh, 23 1/6; Notre Dame, 20 1/6 for sec­ond. 
New records: Capt. Vincent Murphy, 0 feet 7U inches for Notre Dame, C.I.C, and gymnasium record; George Meagher, 23 feet 7% inches in broad jump for Notre Dame indoor record at Illinois; Don Elser, shot put, 48 feet 9% inches, Notre Dame indoor and Butler relays record (best throw made by a middle western competitor during the indoor season). 
Armour relays — Elser second in the shot put; Mike Layden second in the high hurdles, fourth in the lows; Jordan fifth in the 70-yard dash; Notre Dame two-mile relay team sec­ond (Ducasa, McKenna, McGrath, Shells). 
K. of C. games in New York—Mur­phy fourth in the high jump. 
Butler relays — Edwards tied for fourth in the pole vault; Murphy tied for second in the high jump; Elser won the shot put; Two mile relay, Notre Dame second (Ducasa, Cava­naugh. Shells, and McGrath); Med­ley relay, Notre Dame third (Fraw­ley, Ducasa, Hennessy, and McKen­na) ; mile relay, Notre Dame third (Eubly, McGrath, Bernard, Parsons). 
Track 

(outdoor) Notre Dame, 91; Purdue, 39 Ohio State, 71; Notre Dame, 60 Notre Dame, 91% ; Mich. State, 38% Notre Dame, 67; Pittsburgh, 59 Notre Dame, 68; Marquette, 58 
Indiana State meet—^Notre Dame, 52; Indiana, 45%; Purdue, 34%. 
New records: Murphy 6 feet 5% inches for Cartier field and Pitt-Notre Dame meet record in high jump; George Meagher, 24 feet 9% inches for second at Drake relays in broad jump (broke former Drake record), new Notre Dame outdoor record; Mile relay (Parsons, Cavanaugh, Rubly, Bernard) 3:19.8 at Indiana state meet. Bob Bernard, 440-yard dash, 49.1 against Pittsburgh tied the Cartier Field record. Elser 52 feet % inch, new Cartier field and Pitt-Notre Dame record. John Levicki, 174 feet 9 inches, new Ohio State-Notre Dame record in the javelin throw. 
Football 

Texas, 7; Notre Dame, 6 Notre Dame, 18; Purdue, 7 Notre Dame, 13; Carnegie Tech, 0 Notre Dame, 19; Wisconsin, 0 Pittsburgh, 19; Notre Dame, 0 Navy, 10; Notre Dame, 6 Notre Darae,20; Northwestern, 7 Notre Dame, 12; Army, 6 Notre Dame, 14; Southern Cal., 0 
Baseball 

Notre Dame, 4; Ohio State, 3 (10 innings) Purdue, 9; Notre Dame, 5 , Notre Dame, 6; Western State, 5 Notre Dame, 12; Chicago, 6 Iowa, 11; Notre Dame, 1 Notre Dame, 5; Iowa, 3 Notre Dame, 2; Illinois, 1 Notre Dame, 8; Chicago, 7 Michigan State, 5; Notre Dame, 4 Notre Dame, 5; Toledo, 3 Notre Dame, 10; Ohio State, 9 Northwestern, 10: Notre Dame, 7 Notre Dame, 7; Western State, 4 Wisconsin, 7; Notre Dame, 6 Notre Dame, 10; Northwestern, 8 Notre Dame, 13; Purdue, 4 Wisconsin, 7; Notre Dame, 2 Notre Dame, 2; Michigan State, 1 (10 innings) 
Basketball Notre Dame, 35; Kalamazoo, 18 Notre Dame, 37; Albion, 11 Northwestern, 26; Notre Dame, 25 Notre Dame, 29; Stanford, 19 
The tH^otre 'Dame cAlumnus June, 1935 
New York U., 25; Notre Dame, 18 
Notre Dame, 45; Holy Cross, 19 
Minnesota, 30; Notre Dame, 28 
Notre Dame, 23; Marquette, 20 
Notre Dame, 30; Butler, 29 
Pittsburgh, 26; Notre Dame, 22 
Notre Dame, 41; Detroit, 28 
Notre Dame, 32; Chicago, 20 
Ohio State, 31; Notre Dame, 22 
Notre Dame, 38; Washington U., 15 
niinois, 27; Notre Dame, 26 
Notre Dame, 28; Northwestern, 26 
Pittsburgh, 27; Notre Dame, 25 
Notre Dame, 27; Butler, 28 
Marquette, 36; Notre Dame, 21^ 
Notre Dame, 38; Jlinnesota, 27 
Notre Dame, 42; Xavier, 34 
Temple, 34; Notre Dame, 26 
Tennis Notre Dame, 6; Bradley, 3 Notre Dame, 5; Wabash, 2 Notre Dame, 6; Indiana, 3 Northwestern, 7; Notre Dame, 0 Chicago, 7; Notre Dame, 2 Michigan State, 5; Notre Dame, 3 Ohio State, 8; Notre Dame, 0 Illinois, 7; Notre Dame, 0 
State meet — Notre Dame, Weldon and Buchart won the state doubles title. 
Cross-Country 

Notre Dame, 16; Loyola, 39 
JEchigan State, 15; Notre Dame, 40 
Pittsburgh, 15; Notre Dame, 40 
Indiana, 15; Notre Dame, 40 
Central Intercollegiate conference meet—Notre Dame fourth. 
The figures speak for themselves, and there is little need of elaborating upon them. 
We wish to repeat, here, however, the names of the captains of the var­ious teams for next year, with the ad­ditions -which resulted at the conclu­sion of the tennis, track, and baseball seasons: Football—Joseph Sullivan 
(Died March 20, 1935) Basketball—^Marty Peters and 
Johnny Ford T;:ack—George Meagher Baseball—Frank Gaul Tennis—Joseph Waldron Fencing—Kevin Kehoe and Carlos de 
de Landero Cross-country— Golf-

National Catholic Track Meet 

With the entry list increased by two teams to 26 and by 53 individuals to 258, the second annual Notre Dame National Interscholastic track and field championships, held Com­mencement week-end, were an even greater success than the inaugural meet last year. 
West Catholic, Philadelphia, scored in every event but one to retain its team championship with a new record total of 54 5/6 points. The standings of the 20 teach which scored were: West Catholic, Philadelphia 54 5/6 St Ignatius, Chicago 25 Northeast, Philadelphia 17 1/12 Aquinas, Lacrosse, Wis. 11 
De LaSalle, Chicago 11 
DePaul, Chicago 9 
St. Ambrose, Davenport, la. 8 1/3 
Cathedral Latin, Cleveland 8 
Roger Bacon, Cincinnati 7 
Good Counsel, Newark, N. J. 7 
Marmion, Aurora, Dl. 5 1/3 
St. George, Evanston, Bl. 5 1/3 
Leo, Chicago 4 3/4 
LaSalle, Cumberland, Md. 3 
Quincy, HI., College Academy 3 
Pio Nono, Milwaukee 2 
St. Mary's Columbus, Ohio 2 
Mount Carmel, Chicago 11/3 
St. Patrick's, Iowa City, la. 1 
St. Eita, Chicago, Chicago 1 
Eight new records were established, two of them automatically, and one was tied in the 1935 meet. The 200­yard low hurdles replaced the 220­yard lows, and the 120-yard inter­mediate hurdles replaced the 120­yard highs, so the winners in these events were automatically credited with new records. Following are the marks established: 100-yard dash—10.1 seconds, Maher, 
West Catholic 120-yard intermediate hurdles—15.3 
seconds. Van de Motter, Cathedral 

Latin 220-yard dash—^22.2 seconds, Kahsar, Roger Bacon 200-yard low hurdles—23.2 seconds, 
Dunne, St. George 440-yard dash—50.3 seconds, Doorey, West Catholic 880-yard run—2 minutes .6 seconds. 
Reeves, West Catholic 880-yard relay—1 minute 32.7 sec­
onds. Good Counsel (EUmer, Flynn, 

Hughes, Thornton) Shot Put—49 feet 8% inches. Palm­er, Northeast Catholic Four contestants tied the old rec­
ord of 11 feet in the pole vault. 
Form Monogram Association 
At a meeting of more than 200 former Notre Dame athletes in the west dining hall of the college refec­tory Sunday afternoon, June 2, a per­manent organization known as the National Association of Notre Dame Men was formed. 
Edward J. Meehan, '20, former miler, was elected president. Mr. Meehan is national advertising man­ager of The Tribune. Howard (Cap) Edwards, football 1909, was elected vice president, and John Montague, Chicago, track 1923, was named sec­retary treasurer. 
A board of directors also was chosen by the ex-Irish athletes. Those elected to places on the board are: Charles Collins, Oak Park, DL, '25 football; Rev. M. L. Moriarty, Cleve­landi Ohio, track '10; Al. G. Feeney, Indianapolis, football '14; L. M. Mc-Nemey, Elgin, 111., baseball '06; Sam (Rosy) Dolan, North Bend, Ore., baseball '10; Forrest Fletcher, Lex­
ington, Va., track '12. Two members 
of the undergraduate monogram club, 
Mike liayden and Wally Fromhart, 
also were elected on the board of di­
rectors. 
During the session talks were made by Elmer Layden, George Keogan, John Nicholson, Jake Kline, Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Rev. M. L. Moriarty, Harry Miller, Sam Dolan and Leo Holland. The latter was a pitcher on the Notre Dame team of 1899 and was the oldest letterman present. 
Football Ticket Information 
Prices for Notre Dame home foot­ball games and for season tickets have been set and are herewith an­nounced. 
Alumni application blanks will be mailed the latter part of July, the sale ^vill open August 1, and the alumni preference will end September 
15. If for any reason you have not received alumni application blanks by July 25, please vprite to J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics, Notre Dame, Ind., and an additional set will be mailed to you. Alumni dues must be paid if you are to receive this preference. 
Season ticket and general public application blanks will be sent on re­quest. 
Following are individual hom e game prices: Sept. 28—Kansas. Reserved, ?2.20 general admission $1.10. Oct. 19—Pittsburgh, reserved $3.30, general admission, $1.65. Nov. 9 — Northwestern, reserved $3.30, general admission, $1.65. Nov. 23—Southern California, re­served $3.30, general admission, $1.65. (All prices include tax) 
The total for home games is thus $12.10. Season tickets, however, will cost only $9.90, including tax. This is equivalent of seeing the Kansas game without charge. 
Following are the games to be played away from home, for which ticket prices have not yet been an­nounced : 
Oct. 5—Carnegie Tech at Pitts­burgh. 
Oct. 12—^Wisconsin at Madison. 
Oct. 26—^Navy at Baltimore. 
Nov. 2—Ohio State at Columbus. 
Nov. 16—^Army at New York. 
Plans are under way for an "Old Timers' Game" next, fall to honor the members of Notre Dame's first foot­ball team* the team of 1887. Probably either the Northwestern or Southern California game will be set aside for this celebration. 
Alumni and former students of this period will be asked to cooperate and participate in the observance dedi­cated to these players. Future issues of the ALUMNUS will carry more definite details on the affair. 
June, 1935 The t^otTc 'Dame cAlumnus 
The Clubs came in for the lions share of praise during the Com­mencement week-end for their mag­nificent showing in the activity of the Association during the year just passed. And all who have followed this section of the ALUMNUS know how deserved and how inadequate that praise was in proportion to the new standards that Club achievements of 1934-35 set. 
Recommendations of the Local Alumni Club Council, which will he sent in bulletin form later, almost guarantee a continuation of this suc­cess with probable expansion of its merits to Clubs not yet so prominent­ly in the picture. 
The prospectus for the year pub­lished by the Notre Dame Club of Chicago and typical of Club activities of the finest and most varied type, is being sent to all Club presidents for a stimulus immediately. 
Clubs desiring lists of members are urged to write the Alumni Office im­mediately so that this work can be done during the summer. Clubs hav­ing new lists of members are urged to sent them to the Office so that it can correct its files during the same period. 
BERRIEN COUNTY 
The Notre Dame Club of Berrien County met Tuesday evening. May 28, at the Hotel Dwan in Benton Harbor, Michigan and enjoyed a sumptuous duck supper. It was ru­mored that Thomas Grimes, Clarence Hess and John Medo raided Maurice ICrinowitz's duck coop the evening before. 
Among those who enjoyed the feed and secretly laid plans for future expeditions to the Kriniwitz poultry 
yard were Jim Armstrong, Bill Dooley, Frank and Don Lopker, Allen John­ston, Prof. Norbert Engels, Joe Pof­f enberger, Louis Fatten, Prank Deitle, Maurice Krinowitz who asked for a second helping, the three villains Grimes, Hess and Medo, Bill Desen­berg, Alfred White, Bob Franklin, Irving Hallett, Professor Wm. Down­ey, John Jauch, David Gibson, Henry Horka, Tom Farrell, Eugene O'Toole, Arthur Holton and your humble scribe. Treasurer Allen Johnson was pleasedto note that Professor Engels limited himself to a dozen bottles of Coca Cola. 
The Club voted to hold a stag party at the old boat house on the campus at two o'clock Sunday, June 16. Bill Dooley, Bob Franklin,, Casper Grath­wohl, Frank Deitle and Maurice Krin­owitz were named as a committee to rmake all arrangements. 
A letter was read from Father Dolan urging the Club to participate in the annual Layman's Retreat on August 1-4. Jim Armstrong spoke so eloquently on the subject that a Holy Roller and houting Dervish member of the club, namely Dave Gibson and myself, decided to attend. Like the average alumnus we are never adverse to a free feed and are counting on Philip Landsman and Maurice Krinowitz to accompany us. 
Professor Downey appointed Henry Horka, Bob Franklin and Thomas Grimes to lay plans for the Layman's Retreat. It is trusted that all former Notre Dame men in Southwestern Michigan will be in a position to ac­cept the invitation of the University to be its guests on that occasion. 
Malcolm Hatfield. 
• 
CHICAGO 
In addition to its program which, if never carried out, is still a swell program, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago has been hitting on all six. 
One of the fine things of the year was the dinner tendered Shane Leslie at the Union League Club in May. Dr. Leslie, one of the most colorful of the visiting lecturers at Notre Dame was a highlight in the annual program of the Club. 
The Club also had a Mass said at 11 o'clock on Commencement Sunday in the chapel of Alumni Hall for the repose of the soul of Father John Caavnaugh. Father Tom Burke said the Mass, which was attended by the members of the Club here for Com­mencement. Max St. George served the Mass. 
CINCINNATI 
It's about time to tell you all about our big Universal Notre Dame Night. To say that it was short of a huge success would not be doing justice to it. 
After much preparation, the radio program went off fine. Al Castellini, Hogan Morrissey, Joe Morrissey, Bob Chenal, Larry Zepf, and your corre­spondent arranged the continuity, and enacted it for the public. Our listen­ers say the skit and query were very good, but they contend that the sing­ing could have been improved. Ho­gan Morrissey's solo was the excep­tion. We believe that everything was fair considering it as our debuts. 
When we trouped to the Kemper Lane Hotel, after the program, we found our brother members in a gay mood, due to the excellent program arranged by Chairman Joe Kinneary. The "Schnapps Band" was going strong, and the Hudepohl's even stronger. No one will ever forget the former's theme song. The im­promptu floor show brought out much latent talent which we will keep in mind for future radio programs. Harry Crumley recited a beautiful poem, which was the high light of the evening. We had an interesting talk from Duke Riley concerning his period at Notre Dame. He let us in on a lot of things about Walter O'­Keefe, Charles Butterworth, and the "Sisters of the Skillet." Larry Zepf contributed a few taps and songs. Lee Dubois sang a few of his own compositions. We extend the glad hand to Seton Staley and Ed Mc-Hugh for the arrangement of the floor show. 

The fact that we had a crowd of over forty at the affair, leads us to believe that the club is marching for­ward. All the members are working hard to bring every Notre Dame man in the vicinity to the meetings. As a result, Tom McMahon, Ted Mar­burg, Bob Kuerze, Ray Pellman, and Norb Guetle, among many others put in their first appearances. 
Heard the national program before ours went on, and it surely sounded great. The glee club was the best ever. It seems that Universal Notre Dame Night is growing bigger every year. 
George Aug, '33. 

Dear Father O'Hara: At the regular monthly meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Cin­cinnati held last evening, I was di­rected to suggest that it was the feel­ing of those present that a chair in English be founded in memory of our beloved Father Cavanaugh. Undoubt­edly the University has already thought of something along these lines or it has been previously sug­gested. However, the boys felt that because of Father Cavanaugh's wide acquaintance and friendship with so many of the nation's outstanding lay­men it would be a comparatively easy task to obtain adequate funds for such an endowment. Albert D. CasteUini, President. 
CLEVELAND 
The annual business meeting and election of officers took place at Chuck Rohr's, Monday evening. May 
13. There were about 65 members present at this meeting. The officers for the past year reviewed the var­ious activities touching on the high spots of these events. The officers were given a rising vote of thanks from the club members for the most successful year in the club's history. 
And strange as it may seem Jim, Jerry Eeidy reported a substantial sum in our treasury. So just a toast Jim to our ex-officers, Billy Ryan, Gay Haas, Pierce O'Connor and Jerry Beidy. 
The new officers elected were Clayt liCroux president, Chet Brumleve vice-president. Bill Van Rooy treas­urer, and myself as secretary. And here's hoping that we may be as suc­cessful as last year's group. 
Dan Duffy has just been appointed municipal judge of this city. He has been in Columbus since Januaiy act­ing as secretary to Governor Davey. 
Nick Buffing wants to state that he is not on government pension any longer but is associated now -svith Keenan and Butler here in Cleveland. 
Pat Canny is around and about again after his recent operation for appendicitis, but Rev. John Moran says he is no longer able to take it. 
Art Becvar is becoming the well dressed man about town what with modeling this suit and that in the daily papers. 
Larry Krai and Bib Mon-issey are back in their golfing stride and we all expect them to -win a few cups this year. 
Gene Slilliff's dad is recovering very successfully from a serious ac­cident 
Clete Schneider is newest member of the Father's Club, a girl bom April 20. 
Tom Byrne was married Saturday, May 18, to Catherine McGivem, a former St. Mary's girl. Quite a few of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's group were present at the ceremonies and at the reception in the afternoon at Fred Joyce's Lake Shore Hotel. 
Quite a few of the fellows intend to be up at school for the gradua­tion exercises so we will see you then, Jim. 
Otis Winchester. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Sorry I did not furnish you a re­port of the Club's Universal Night diiiner and activities prior to this date, but I hope it will arrive in time for the Commencement number. 
As you were previously informed, William A. Hurley arranged the party held in the Hotel Bridgeway, Spring­field, and to his credit, did a very fine job. It was pleasing, to find among the attendants many of the "old tim­ers," but new at our meetings. 
The radio broadcasts were pleas­antly enjoyed, including the Stude­baker time and our two programs from WDEC—^Fr. Patrick T. Quin­lan, and WTIC — The Travelers' Hour; both from Hartford. 
One distinction which belongs to the Club was the honor and pleasure of having at our affair, one of the authors of the "Victory March"— John F. Shea. 
After a splendid dinner, Tom Fer­guson called on Bev. Patrick T. Quin­lan, John F. Shea, Ulric (Foot) Ruell, Joe (Jake) Joachim and George (Dinny Shay for a few remarks. It was of especial interest to hear John Shea and "Foot" Buell reminisce of school in their time. Many of the traditions, it seems, started during their time. 
A nominating committee brought in the following slate, which was ap­proved, and will be effective for the ensuing year: 
Thomas B. Curry, Honorary Pres­ident; Rev. Patrick "V. Quinlan, Chap­lain. 
Officers: Thomas E. Ferguson, Pres­ident; Harry E. Deegan, Vice Presi­dent; Francis B. Laraia, Treasurer; Francis D. Ahern, Secretary. 
Board of Governors: John M. Cian­ci, George D. Shay, Raymond P. Snyder. 
So you see, Jim, you will have to bear with me for awhile longer. 
A recent meeting of the group shown above resulted in preparations for a semi-formal dance to be held in Hartford, Hotel Bond Roof Garden, June 15, 1935. Francis B. Laraia, General Chairman, has appointed the following committees: 
General Committee: Andrew Kata, New Britain, Cinn.; John F. Sullivan, Holyoke, Mass.; Raymond A. Snyder, Chicopee, Mass.; Timothy Hinchey, Westfield, Mass.; George E. Erwin, New Britain, Conn.; Raymond Mc-Keon, Kensington, Conn. 
Publicity: George D. Shay, Chair­man; Matthew MesHU, New Britain, Conn.; John F. Shea, Holyoke, Mass.; James Murphy, Middletown, Conn. Tickets: Harry J. Deegan, Chairman; John D. Carney, Hartford, Conn.; John M. Cianci, New Britain, Conn.; William A. Hurley, Springfield, Mass. 
Music: Charles B. McDonough, Hartford, Conn.; James E. Hayes, New Britain, Conn. Invitations: Thomas B. Curry, Chair­man; Timothy Murphy, Hartford, Conn.; RajTnond W. Griffin, Hart­ford, Conn. 
Arrangements: Francis D. Ahem, Chairman; James A. Curry, Hartford, Conn.; Francis T. Farrell, Hartford, Conn. 
In a previous letter, I referred to the speech Pr. Patrick T. Quinlan de­livered at the Elmer Layden Dinner. A copy of the speech is enclosed and I believe you will find it of interest. Practically the same speech was used for his broadcast. 
The above, I believe, co%'ers the Club activities to date. Francis D. Ahem. 
DENVER 
I was sorry to see, however, that the notice of our Rocky Mountain Club's Universial Notre Dame Night banquet didn't get into print. There were about twenty of us met for sup­per at the Argonaut Hotel, ate, planned a more active unit of the Association, and listened to two radio programs in honor of N. D. One, the Studebaker Hour; and the other on the Columbia network, prepared and announced by our own Matt Mc-Eniry. He did a fine job of it. So, Denver's Notre Dame was with you. 
Ray Smith is back in Denver again, and going places with the Kansas City Life. Had a round of golf with him last Saturday, and I think he plans to be back on the campus for summer school. John Humphreys is in the insurance line too; he sold me a policy some months ago—^it must have been a good one for I haven't been in an accident yet. 
John Clauder stole away from the blustery March weather of Milwaukee and found time down in Florida to drop me a postal. Way back in Feb­ruary I had a letter from Chuck Lit­ty; he has been busy as a newspaper reporter in his home town, then in the publicity department of a broadcast­ing company, and by this time I hope he has been placed with the steamship company he had his eyes on. He passed on the word that Vince Fehlig paid him a visit at Christmas time —ancient history! About that same time of year, I had a long letter from Jim Griffin. He is working hard in the law classes of Albany Law School. As for myself, I'm working in the Accounting end of the Hungarian Flour Mills — it's interesting work with a fine company. 
I know these are busy days for you. Just a year ago I was hurrying in and out of Sorin during those hours before Commencement. Seems a long time ago. I hope it won't be too many years before I can attend another one—^but it is a long way from the foot of the Rockies to the Golden Dome. 
Eugene S. Blish, '34. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
I am not certain if the Secretary has written you of our dinner on the 29th of April but in any event I will make a brief report. 
We were fortunate in having as our guest speaker the inimitable Pat Manion who kept every one enter­tained for more than an hour. Dutch Bei^gman also arose to the heights with an after dinner talk very rem­iniscent of Bockne at his best. We also had a sound film of "One Min­ute to Go" and you can be sure the crowd enjoyed it. 
The dinner was held at the Bacquet Club and our attendance numbered more than eighty, most of whom were members but with a good sprinkling of other distinguished guests, includ­ing no other than the Mayor of Ev­ansville and his City Attorney. 
We are planning a little stag party next week to be followed by a dance 
June, 1935 The l^otre 'Dame cAlamnus 
in June at the Congressional Country Club and then we will fold up for the summer season. Every one agrees, however, that we have had a" very successful year and we still take pride in being dubbed the only club that has no dues. 
At the regular meeting, May 21, election of officere was held and the following were elected for the ensu­ing year: 
J. D. Hayes, Chevy Chase, Md., President; Thomas J. Markey, Jr., Washington, D. C, Vice-President; 
J. Thomas Carver, Washington, D. C, Secretary; Charles Mannix, Washing­ton, D. C., Treasurer. 
The membership discussed the ad­visability of holding a dance at a country club prior to July 1, 1935 and it was agreed that such a dance should be held and that the president should appoint a committee immedi­ately to arrange for same and report progress at the earliest possible date. 
Following the meeting a buffet sup­per was served. 
J. D. Hayes, '17. 

HIAWATHALAND 
The Hiawathaland Club met on Universal Night at the Milliman Ho­tel at Iron Mountain. 
The following were present: E. J. Dundon, '22, John Lemmer, '18, Bill Clancy, '24, Henry Lauerman, '22, Jacob Leisen, '33, Joseph Lauerman, '31, Ed Ryan, os, Roger Dillon, os, George Belhumeur, '37, Norman C. Bartholomew, '15. 
The Philco agency furnished a ra­dio and the reception came in fine. The service was appreciated. 
John Lemmer furnished a reel of pictures "In Memoriam," illustrating incidents in the life of "Rock." Joe Lauerman showed pictures of the fa­mous trip td California. 
The Club voted to have an annual memorial Mass to be said at Notre Dame. 
N. C. Bartholomew, '15. 

EASTERN INDIANA 
We are holding our regular month­ly meeting of the Eastern Indiana Notre Dame Club next Monday eve­ning, June 3. I have promised the fellows that we would have some foot­ball movies to show them on that night, and this is to forewarn you that I am counting on you to line up something for me. 
I will be up for the commencement activities Saturday and Sunday, and I shall be in to see you as soon as I arrive. The future of our club de­pends on our having a good program for our next meeting. 
Tom Cannon. 

KENTUCKY 
The Derby's preceding week of ju­bilee evidently overshadowed Univer­sal Notre Dame Night in Louisville. But the boys there individually are on their toes. 
Bill Reisert, Jr., was on the campus for Commencement, and incidentally let fall the fact that he is president of the strong St. Xavier alumni asso­ciation of the famous Louisville prep school. 
A note from Frank Bloemer says that even the chili industry is recov­ering. 
So more from that important cen­ter from now on. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of La. and Miss, had their annual re­union gathering at the home of the president, Patrick E. Burke, 2006 Canal street. Some 30 members of the Alumni gathered at 6:30 at his home for dinner and at 8 o'clock the dinner was concluded and a varied program was enjoyed by some 100 guests who were interested in Notre Dame. 
A radio broadcasting program was marked by talks from the president, Cyprian Sporl, Jr. and Bolan Burke. 
The Holy Cross College Band num­bering about 40 played throughout the evening when Notre Dame songs were often repeated and the hundreds who had gathered in the vicinity of the president's home derived pleasure therefrom. 
Varied talks and musical numbers kept the Notre Dame spirit alive un­til midnight when there was regret that there could not be many more of such gatherings. 
Notre Dame colors in blankets, pil­lows, pennant, banners and mono­grammed sweaters with plenty of old gold and blue predominated about the home. It was certainly pleasing to have with us younger men such older men as Joe Dolan, Fabian Johnston, Rev. Louis Kelley, pastor of Sacred Heart Church. The younger genera­tion 0^ alumni did not allow the grass to grow under their feet. Among the youngsters was James Favret who changed from bachelorhood to a bene­dict on June 15 the day that the new Archbishop of New Orleans (Joseph 
P. Rummel, D.D.) was installed which prevented the president from being present. Charles de la Vergne, Frank Chalona, Austin Boyle now connected ivith the Time-Picayune, Jules de la Vergne, and many others added to the evening's entertainment. 
P. E. Burke. 

CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
After being inactive several months the Notre Dame Club of Central Michigan met at the Roosevelt Hotel, Lansing, Michigan on April 29 to commemorate Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Plans were made to hold regular monthly meetings on the first Monday of each month starting Jane 3. The meetings are to be held at the Roose­vent Hotel in Lansing at 7:30 o'clock in the evening. 
In addition to conducting the regu­lar business the annual election of of­ficers was hel da ndthe following offi­cers elected: President, Dr. E. J. Hermes; Vice - President, John J. Scales; secretary and treasurer, Har­vey Gauthier. 
Former Notre Dame students resid­ing in towns in the vicinity of Lan­sing are urged to attend the meetings and should any information be de­sired regarding the club it will be gladly furnished by the undersigned or by any other member of the club. 
Harvey Gauthier. 

MILWAUKEE Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by the Milwaukee Club in grand style. Most of the boys showed up and we really got a lot of business finished. New officers for the coming year were elected with the result that a very good man got in as president. The new officers are as follows: Harol d Watson, '25, president; Charles O'Neill, '26, vice-president; William Brown, '29, vice-president; John Clauder, '34, secretary, and Jos­eph Griffin, '28, treasurer. The officers had a meeting last week and many plans were laid for the coming year. Our hardest job now is going to be to collect dues. They never had any up here so it is going to be hard convincing the fellows we are not trying to fill our own pockets. We have also planned a golf tourna­ment as well as our usual picnic for this summer. Will send the dates later in case anybody you know is going to be up this way and would like to join us. John E. Clauder. 
NEW YORK CITY Club scholarship, Thursday Night club as an offshoot of activities, the luncheons, frequent visits from N.D. celebs—small wonder Doc Gelson is hard pressed. The Club entertained the key men in the national hook-up on Universal Notre Dame Night, Fr. O'Hara and Frank Walker also addressing the Club group at the McAlpin. Other guests amon gthe 300 present were John P. Murphy, 12, Cleveland, Lay Trustee; U. S. Attorney Leo Hickey, 
The W olre 'Dame cA I u m n u * June, 1935 
Charles Gorman, and that personality that Notre Dame has to share with the public, Jimmy Crowley. Ed Tighe, president of the club, presided at the meeting. 
NEW JERSEY This is to notify you that election of the New Jersey Club was held on Monday, June 3, and the following officers were elected for the year 1935-36: President, Thomas Purcell, East Orange, N. J.; vice-president. Dr. George Hewson, Newark, New Jer­sey; secretary, Ray Geiger, Irvington, New Jersey; treasurer, Robert Huetz, East Orange, New Jersey. I know that all of these boys ^vill give you every bit of cooperation and I can assure you that the benefits of their administration should be great for the Alumni organization as a whole. 
B. K. Wingerter. 
PEORIA Some 58 members of the Notre Dame club of Peoria, but drawn from many cities throughout Central Illinois, gathered at the University club for the local observance of Uni­versal Notre Dame night, an annual alumni fete celebrated throughout the world. Robert E. Kavanaugh, the princi­pal speaker, spoke eloquently of the contribution of Notre Dame patriot­ism to this country and of the fight of the American Legion in Peoria coxmty against communistic tenden­cies. "The Notre Dame Man" was the topic of the Rev. Keithen L. Roche of Canton, who spoke of what the world expected of the graduate or former student due to the training he had received at the University. George Sprenger presided at the meeting. Plans were announced for a dinner and reception of the Peoria club in honor of its member, the Rev. Bourke Motsett, a Peorian recently ordained in Rome, Italy. The dinner and reception will be held some time late in May, with Al Gury, Jr., in charge. Plans were also announced for the annual picnic of the club to be held June 22 on the farm of Dr. 
C. V. Ward, Lawrence Prescott heads the committee in charge. 
A feature of the meeting was the tuning in of a special radio broadcast over the coast-to-coast facilities of the National Broadcasting company, through the courtesy of the Stude­baker corporation. Talks were made by Elmer Layden, famous football coach; Frank Walker, government work relief official; Eddie Dowling, stage comedian, and the Rev. John P. O'Hara, president of the University. 
John E. Cassidy gave a radio talk as a part of the Peoria observance. 
telling of his impressions of the Uni­versity and its campus life. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA Joining with Notre Dame clubs throughout the world in the Universal Notre Dame night observance, the East Penn Alumni club met at the Hotel Allen and during the evening elected ofiicers. 
Leo R. Mclntyre, of Bethlehem was again named president of the club. Other officers elected are Thomas Quigley, Shenandoah, vice president; Cyril Jones, Reading, second vice president; Hugh Campbell, Hazleton, treasurer; Ernest L. Wilhelm, Pal­merton, secretary. Directors named ar e Joseph Quigley, Shenandoah; William Gorman, Bethlehem; Joseph Manana, Easton; Ben Bourne, Phil­lipsburg, N. J., and William Lough­ran, Freeland. 
Guests of the club were Leo P. Prendergast, coac h at Bethlehem High school and Joseph Ricapito, di­rector of instnunental music in the Bethlehem public schools, each of whom made short talks. Mr. Mclntyre acted as toastmaster at the dinner meeting and called upon each of the 20 alumni of Notre Dame present for remarks. 
Notre Dame songs were sung by the alumni, \vith Joseph Mannana as the leader. During the program, the Notre Dame broadcast was heard through the courtesy of F. Bowman and Son, a radio being installed to receive this program. ­
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
You might call attention to the fact that the club had its first annual spring golf day at the Coquillard Country Club on Thursday, May 16, 1935; that Elmer Layden was chair­man and that Bill Sheehan won the gripers' tournament; that Herb Jones, Art Haley and John McNamara were tied for the honors in the handicap tournament and that it was won by McNamara and he received a pair of shoes donated by Spauldings. Forty members of the club took part. 
You might, also, call attention to last night's dance, which was entitled "Spring Dance," which featured Lop Jarmon and his orchestra and was held at Melody Gardens. Credit for the great success of this dance should go to Art Diedrich, chairman, Frank Donovan, Louis Bruggner, John Gib­bons, DiUon Patterson and Louis Buckley and to the wives of the mem­bers of the club who cooperated so nicely. One hundred and fifty couples attended. 
You might, also, make a note that 
A. Harold Weber is chairman for the arrangements for commencement as far as the local club is concerned. 
Sec Chapleau per Pres. Jones. 

TRIPLE CITIES 
Local alumni did their part in the celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. Approximately 25 members attended a dinner held in Donnelly's Restaurant. Ofiicers for the coming year were elected. They are: Presi­dent, Bill Hogan; vice-president, Ed­ward O'Brien; treasurer, Joseph Ken­nedy; secretary. Bill Yeager. Social activities, including a dance and a clambake, were planned for the com­ing months. The new Alumni mem­bers will be received at a dinner early in June. They are: Joe Conlon, Jack Wacks, John Murphy and Joe Knapp. Retiring President Joe Carey, now a government investigator in Detroit, sent his regards by telegram. The University broadcast came in fine and was thoroughly enjoyed. Late in the evening some fine singing talent was brought to the fore—off or on key everybody had plenty of volume. 
Francis Toomey, '34, is staging a fine comeback after having suffered a severe attack of pleurisy and pneu­monia. He was stricken while en­gaged in social work and furthering his studies in that field in New York City. 
"Stew" Osborne, '34, is an account­ant in the office of the Binghamton Gas Company. 
John Donnelly, '34, suffered the loss of his father, prominent hotel man, who died Monday, May 20. The Alum­ni are having a High Mass said at St. Mary's church for the repose of his soul. May he rest in peace. 
Bill Ayres,'34, who has been writ­ing for the Binghamton Sun during the past year, has recentl ytaken over new duties as the sports editor. I see where Notre Dame athletes get some local publicity, 
Jim Hogan, '34, and his brother, Bill, '32, will soon complete another term of teaching. Bill is teaching at the Central High and Jim at East Junior, 
Pete Wacks, '30, is busily engaged in law practice with Chemin and Gold, 
Dr, Frank Conole, ex-'31, and Dr. John O'Brien, ex-'31, are completing a year of intemeship, Frank is at Bethlehem Hospital and John at the Binghamton City, 
Ted Griffin was recently appointed secretary of the City Plumbing Ex­amining Board. 
William Miner is now attorney for the village of Endicott. 
We are all wondering about Al McCormick, '33, who is visiting a friend in deah ole South Bend. 
^Well—^it's spring and . I have been appointed a playground director for the summer months. Hope to have a line on some of the other fellows next time, William Yeager, '34. 
DEATHS 
The following resolution was passed by the Association at its Annual Meeting, the Alumni Banquet, on June 1, 1935. 
"Whereas God, in His wisdom, has during this past year taken from this life the alumni hereinafter listed, and 
"W h e r e a s these members have served their Alma Mater with glory in their respective avocations, 
"Be it resolved that this Associa­tion extend its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives with promise of prayers that the same God in His mercy will be generous to their souls and grant them that eternal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
"Be it further resolved that an ex­pression of the above be \vritten into the official records of the Alumni Association and a copy sent to the be­reaved relatives." 
The deceased: 
O'Donnell, C.S.C, Rev. Charles Leo, '06; Swantz, Dr. Thomas J., '04; Eder, Sidney, '26; Dickens, Earl S., el., '22; Tobin, Thomas J., '07; Flick, George W., '28; Locke, Joseph J., ex., '30; Hartung, Paul E., '99; Henley, James G., '93; Wright, John A., '89. 
Coolidge, Andrew P., '93; Sant, Dr. Ralph Van, '95; Noud, Reuben P. '13; Hoffman, Harry J., '22; Rice, Robert, ex. '30; Larkin, John F., '70; Scanlon, Ambrose J., ex. '09; Higgins, John G., '32; Reilly, Thomas W., ex. '13; Hart James 0., '30. 
Kelly, William H., '19; Mathey, Aloysius L., '25; Hagenbarth, Frank, ex., '86; Cartier, Warren A., '87; An­leitner, Harry J., ex. '20; Murphy, Patrick K., '77; Marmon, Col. Joseph, ex, '97; Toth, Rev. Joseph M., '11; Cusick, Dwight Paul, '12; O'Mara, John Dinnen, minim. 
Wall, Francis X., '80; Doam, John, '29; Hanley, Michael C, os., '97; Stack, John K., ex. '02; O'Connor, Eugene J., '04; Mahoney, Leo A., '22; McNamee, Rev. Ignatius E., '09; Murphy, Robert Q., '26; Schwartz, Eugene R., '27; Clarke, Henry, ex.'70. 
Brennan, Laughlin T., '31; Hennes­sy, Francis D., '94; Ewing, Edward S., '88; Cavanaugh, Rev. John W., C.S.C., '90. 

Wm. Daniel Hayes, 38, of Spring­field, Mass., former Notre Dame ath­lete and Olympic sprint star, was killed May 31 when struck by an au­tomobile as he was crossing a street in Baytown. 
Bill was in the 1920 Olympics after \vinning national championships as a sprinter at Notre Dame. He has spent most of his post college life traveling as a sailor. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Mary Moore and RUSSEL C. KUEHL, '29. The wedding -v^all take place June 15. 
Miss Mary Agnes Harris and AN­DREW J. BOYLE, '28. The wedding 
•will take place June 22. 
Miss Lucile Hardman and LOUIS HASLEY, '30. The wedding will take place June 19. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. CALLIX MILLER, '21, announce the birth of a son, Duane Thomas, May 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM SCHOM­BURG, '25, announce the bii-th of a daughter on May 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. KENNETH HAM­MOND, '25, announce the arrival of a son, J. Kenneth, Jr., May 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. VICTOR F. LEM­MER, '26, announce the birth of a daughter. Marguerite Rose, May 21. 
Mr. and Mrs. WALTER J. TOUS­SAINT. '29, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Catherine, April 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. JERRY SMITH, '30, announce the birth of a son, Law­rence Scott, March 5. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH DEEB, '31, announce the birth of a son, Michael Joseph, May 1. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS P. DEN­NEY, '32, announce the birth of a daughter. Honor Terese, April 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR GEORGE EPPIG, announce the birth of a son, Arthur George, Jr., May 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE GRIF­FIN, '29, announce the birth of a daughter. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DONNELLY, '34, announce the birth of a son, John, February 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH S. MOR­RISSEY, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Barbara Rose, May 30. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss EUnor Kirby and FRED MA­HAFFEY, '17, were married June 1, at the Ijog Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen McDermott and JAMES SHAW, '22, were married May 11, in Des Moines, Iowa. 
Miss Mary Alice Heenan and KARL J. BARR, ?23, were married May 20, in Salem, Oregon. 
Miss Ruth Newlin and JAMES S. BRADBURY, '23, were married June 1 in Hutsonville, HI. 
Miss Catherine McGivem and THOMAS P. BYRNE, '28, were mar­ried May 18, in Lakewood, Ohio. 
Miss Katherine Hubertus and CLARK WALLACE, '28, were mar­ried April 24, in Dansville, N. Y. 
Miss Doris Bromann and MILTON 

F. FOX, '30, were married May 7, in Oak Park, 111. 
Miss Marie Graff and LEO K. COOK, '31, were married May 8, in Washington, D.C. 
Miss Kathleen Cox and CHARLES 

J. KOVACS, '31, %vere married June 1, in South Bend, Ind. 
Miss Josephine Marie Rogers and JAMES HASKELL ASKEW, '31, were married May 29, in Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Miss Virginia Cook and DONALD MacDONALD, '31, were married May 27, at the Log Chapel, South Bend, Ind. 
Miss Maria Fernanda Camou and WILLIAM A. MORPHY, '31, were married May 26, in Mexico City, Mex. 
Miss Anne Marie Gallagher and 

M. KELLY POWERS, '32, were mar­ried June 1, at Queen of Angels Church, Chicago, 111. 
Miss Marguerite Bohnen and ARN­OLD KLEIN, '32, were married May 28, in Minneapolis, Minn. 
Miss Christine Caskey and JAMES 

W. SIMMONS, Jr., '32, were married May 15, in Quanah, Texas. 
Miss Elizabeth Link and CHAS. J. FISS, '33, were married April 23, in Norwalk, Ohio. 
Miss Marybelle Denney and JOHN 

A. MATOUSEK, '33, were married June 1, in Chicago, 111. 
•Miss Charlotte Armstrong an d WM. E. McNULTY, ex '33, were married March 2. 
Miss Dorothy Tubbs and JOSEPH 

E. TALBOT, ex '34, were married May 9, in Washington, D.C. 
Miss Dorothy Melvin and NORB­ERT RASCHER, '34, were married June 1, in Chicago, 111. 
COMMENCEMEhIT REGISTRATION 
1877 
Frank H. Vennett, South Bend, Ind. 
1880 
Dr. J. B. Berteling, South Bend, Ind. 
1886 Rev. Bernard J. HI, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1887 Frank P. Konzen, Mishawaka, Ind. 
1888 Very Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1893 
Edward J. Maurus, South Bend, Ind. 1894 Dr. Francis J. Powers, South Bend, Ind. 1897 Rev. John A. MacNamara, Mt. Clem­ens, Michigan. 
1898 Charles Girsch, Chicago, 111. Frank E. Hering, South Bend, Ind. 
1899 Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. James P. Murphy, Rock Island, III. 
E. L. Holland, Baltimore, Md. 
Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1901 
Rev. George Man-, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Thomas O'Meara, West Bend, Wis. 
1902 
George M. Maypole, Chicago, 111. Rev. Thomas McKeon, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Edwin Pick, West Bend, Wis. 
1903 
Rev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. Alexis Coquillard, South Bend, Ind. Charles A. Gorman, Brooklyn, N. Y. John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa. Don P. O'Keefe, Detroit, Mich. 
1904 
Francis X. Ackermann, Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. Joseph Burke, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
G. A. Farabaugh, South Bend, Ind. Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, HI. Robert E. Proctor, Elkhart, Ind. 
1905 
WiUiam D. Jamieson, Chicago, 111. Daniel L. Murphy, Farmer City, Bl. Daniel O'Connor, Chicago, HI. Louis J. "Red" Salmon, Detroit, Mich. 
1906 
Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. John F. Gushing, Chicago, Bl. Rev. Chas. Doremus, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. 

Rev. Edw. Finnegan, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. John C McGinn, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. Lawrence M. McNemey, Elgin, 111. Rev. John M. Ryan, CS\C., Notre 
Dame, Ind. 
1907 

Rev. Wm. A, Bolger, CS.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. James V. Cunningham, Chicago, Dl. Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
1908 

Vamum A. Parish, Momence. Rev. James Quinlan, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Max J. St. George, Chicago, 111. 
1909 

Edward Cleary, Notre Dame, Ind. James F. Hines, South Bend, Ind. John B. Kanaley, Chicago, 111. 
1910 

George E. Attley, River Forest, HI. Samuel M. Dolan, North Bend, Ore. 
S. S. Herr, Chatsivorth, HI. 
L. C McElroy, East Norwalk, Conn. 
M. Harry Miller, Cleveland, Ohio Rev. M. L. Moriarty, Cleveland, Ohio Myles H. Sinnott, Cleveland, Ohio Claude Sorg, Middletown, Ohio 
1911 

Rev. Wm. A. Carey, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. P. J. Can-oil, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Pedro A. de Landero, South Bend, Ind. Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. John P. O'Hai-a, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. Fi-ed L. Steers, Chicago, HI. John C TuUy, Chicago, HI. Rev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 

1912 John M. Bannon, South Bend, Ind. Walter Duncan, La Salle, Ind. Don Hamilton, Columbus, Ohio Rev. B. H. Lange, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. Chester M. McGrath, St. Joseph, Mich. 
1913 

Paul R. Byrne, Notre Dame, Ind. William E. Cotter, New York City Rev. John C Kelley, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. 

1914 Ira W. Hurley, Chicago, HI. Ray T. Miller, Cleveland, Ohio Dr. D. M. Nigro, Kansas City, Mo. 
1915 

Rev. Patrick H. Dolan, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. Mark L. Duncan, Chicago, HI. Ray J. Eichenlaub, Columbus, Ohio 
Albert A. Kuhle, LaGrange, HI. Wm. J. Mooney, Jr., Indianapolis, Ind. Mitchell C. Newgass, Chicago, HI. Norman H. Ranstead, Chicago, HI. 
1916 

Timothy P. Galvin, Hammond, Ind. Rev. Henry Glueckert, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
J. J. McCaffery, South Bend, Ind. 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1917 

Joseph F. Flynn, Chicago, HI. 
J. Paul Fogarty, Chicago, HI. Daniel E. Hilgartner, Chicago, HI. Fred Mahaffey, Indianapolis, Ind. Austin A. McNichols, Chicago, HI. Bernard J. VoU, South Bend, Ind. 
1918 Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. Leo L. Cook, South Bend, Ind. Joseph J. Feldott, Aurora, HI. Vincent T. Giblin, Fiami, Fla. Rev. Geo. Holderith, C.S.C, Notre 
Dame, Ind. Robert H. McAuliffe, South Bend, Ind. 
1919 Maurice Carroll, Kansas City, Mo. Paul Fenlon, Notre Dame, Ind. 
L. V. Harmon, South Bend, Ind. Arthur C. Weinrich, Chicago, HI. 
1920 John T. Balfe, New York City James H. Brennan, Chicago, HI. Paul Conaghan, Chicago, 111. Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Sherwood Dixon, Dixon, HI. Vincent Fagan, South Bend, Ind. Frank Farrington, South Bend, Ind. Edward J. Meehan, South Bend, Ind. Walter Miller, Defiance, Ohio Dillon Patterson, South Bend, Ind. 
J. F. Shields, Omaha, Nehr. 
1921 William Allen, Chicago, 111. Norman Barry, Chicago, HI. Frank Coughlin, South Bend, Ind. Dan W. Duffy, Cleveland, Ohio Don Easley, South Bend, Ind. Chet Grant, Notre Dame, Ind. Clarence J. Kline, Notre Dame, Ind. 
R. J. Schubmehl, South Bend, Ind. 
1922 Jerome F. Dixon, Chicago, HI. John T. Higgins, Detroit, Mich. James R. McCabe, Chicago, HI. 
M. P. Sheedy, Pittsburgh, Pa. Walter L. Shilts, South Bend, Ind. Walter Stuhldreher, Indianapolis, Ind. Earl F. Walsh, New York City Chet A. Wynne, Lexington, Ky. 
1923 Louis V. Bruggner, South Bend, Ind. Joseph Casasanta, South Bend, Ind. Paul Castner, Cleveland, Ohio 
June, 1935 
John F. Connell, South Bend, Ind. Joseph F. Donaldson, Hammond, Ind. Dr. P. C. Doran, Akron, Ohio Frank S. Doriot, Chicago, 111. John E. Flynn, Cleveland, Ohio Frank J. Galvin, Hammond, Ind. Eugene M. Hines, Chicago, HI. 
E. P. Kreimer, South Bend, Ind. 
J. R. Martin, Chicago, HI. 
J. M. Montague, Chicago, HI. 
R. J. Nash, Chicago, 111. Joseph W, Nyikos, South Bend, Ind. 
E. J. Payton, South Bend, Ind. John M. Rohrbach, Crown Point, Ind. Wm. E. Shea, Dayton, Ohio Wm. L. Voss, Harvey, HI. Frank Wallace, New York City 
1924 

Albert D. Castellini, Cincinnati, Ohio 
T. E. Cooke, Chicago, HI. Ralph M. DeGrafF, South Bend, Ind. Norman N. Feltes, Chicago, HI. Levi A. Geniesse, Green Bay, Wis. Thos. H. Hodgson, Minneapolis, Minn. Ray Hoyer, Notre Dame, Ind. 
J. P. Johnston, Daj'ton, Ohio Juno Kinerk, Dowagiac, Mich. Brother Leonard, C.S.C, Indianap­
olis, Ind. Harold L. Londo, Gi-een Bay, Wis. Wm. "Red" Maher, Chicago, HI, 
E. A. Mayl, Dayton, Ohio 
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
E. N. DeGurse, Marine City, Mich. Cliflford Noonan, Chicago, HI. Joseph Norton, Detroit, Mich. Robert B. Riordan, Notre Dame, Ind. 
G. Don Sullivan, Huntington, Ind. 
W. Harold Welch, New York Citj­
1925 

James E. Armstrong, Notre Dame, 
Ind. Tom Barry, Notre Dame, Ind. George A. Bischoff, Indianapolis, Ind. John E. Bower, Waukegan, HI. 
W. H. Braunsdorf, South Bend, Ind. 
F. Clarence Bunce, La Porte, Ind. Bill Cemev, Notre Dame, Ind. "Duke" Clancy, Indianapolis, Ind. Charles C. Collins, Oak Park, HI. Stephen C. Corboy, Chicago, HI. Ray C. Cunningham, Detroit, Mich. Ray DeCourcey, Rochelle, HI. John Devereaux. Chicatto, HI. Robert Dixon, Dixon, HI. Leo J. Dorschel, Green Bay, Wis. Dr. C. J. Foley, Waukegan, HI. Al Foos, Norwalk. Ohio 
F. D. Fusz, Jr., Webster Groves, Mo. Walter D. Hall. Minneapolis, Minn. Clarence Harding, South Bend, Ind. John W. Hillenbrand, Batesville, Ind. Joseph A. Hogan. South Bend, Ind. Gerald Holland, South Bend, Ind. Frank W. Howland. Rockford, HI. 
R. B. Howland, St. Louis, Mo. John P. Hurley, Jr., Toledo, Ohio William C. Hurley, Saginaw, Mich. Ben G. Kesting, Toledo. Ohio George T. Koch. South Bend, Ind. George C. Laughlin. Chicago, HI. F.lrner 'P. LayHen. Notre Dame, Ind. 
E. T. Lyons, Lansing, Mich. 
The ^otrg 'Dame cAlumnus 
James F. McNicholas, Chicago, HI. 
Walter Metzger, Chicago, HI. 
Don C. Miller, Cleveland, Ohio 
Gerald W. Miller, Cleveland, Ohio 
Charles M. Mouch, Sandusky, Ohio 
Frank Murray, Toledo, Ohio 
J. M. Neitzel, Boise, Idaho Wm. J. O'Connor, Milwaukee, Wis. John J. O'Toole, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
A. J. Porta, South Bend, Ind. Leo J. Powers, Chicago, HI. Paul Romweber, Batesville, Ind. Paul E. Sagstetter, Ft. Wayne, Ind. John W. Scallan, Chicago, HI. 
G. F. Schaefer, Detroit, Mich. George B. Sheehe, South Bend, Ind. Al Sommer, Lakewood, Ohio Howard Spencer, Chicago, HI. John F. Stoeckley, Notre Dame, Ind. Harry Stuhldreher, Villanova, Pa. Joseph Toolen, Anderson, Ind. Gilbert XHil, South Bend, Ind. Harold Watson, Milwaukee, Wis. Henry Wurzer, Davenport, Iowa 
1926 

Joseph A. Bailey, Chicago, HU 
Wm. R. Barr, Chalmers, Ind. 
John C. Bulger, Chicago, HI. 
Bill Dooley, Notre Dame, Ind. 
B. L. Goulet, Boston, Mass. John T. Griffin, Chicago, HI. Art Haley, Notre Dame, Ind. Albert W. Mahoney, Indianapolis, Ind. 
G. V. McDermott, Chicago, HI. 
G. W. Morsches, Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
I. I. Probst, New Athens, HI. Bob Rigney, Chicago, HI. James A. Ronan, Chicago, HI. Carl F. Schaffer, Toledo, Ohio 
1927 

Joe Boland, Notre Dame, Ind. 
John Brinkman, Chicago, 111. 
Paul M. Butler, South Bend, Ind. 
Bill Clarke, Jr., Toledo, Ohio 
Bill Coyne, South Bend, Ind. John "Rome" Dugan, Kansas Citj', Mo. Thomas B. Dunn, Chicago, HI. 
Dick Halpin, Chicago, HI. John Halpin, Chicago, 111. Robert Irmiger, Chicago, HI. 
W. E. Jasper, Chicago, 111. Herbert Jones, Noh-e Dame, Ind. Clayton Leroux, Cleveland, Ohio Ray McCloiT, Chicago, HI. 
W. H. McCuUough, Detroit, Mich. 
E. J. McLaughlin. Chicago, 111. Vince McNally, Philadelphia, Pa. John McNeills, Chicago, HI. Frank Moran, South Bend, Ind. Frank J. Pendergast, Chicago, HI. Clarence Ruddv, Aurora, HI. Andy Sleigh, Weston, W.Va. -T. E. Sullivan. Chicago, HI. Earl C. Worthington, Springfield, HI. 
1928 

Wm. F. Armin, South Bend, Ind. James W. Boehning, Indianapolis, Ind. Andrew Boyle, Notre Dame, Ind. Eugene Brown, Elkhart, Ind. Louis Buckley, South Bend, Ind. 
J. T. Canizaro, Washington, D. C. George Coury, Chicago, HI. Vincent P. Ducey, Chicago, HI. 
•2S7 

Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. John F. Frederick, Saginaw, Mich. 
R. F. Graham, Grand Rapids, Mich. Bill Goelitz, Oak Park, lU. Al Gury, Jr., Peoria, HI. Henry Hasley, F t Wayne, Ind. Robert Knox, Crystal Lake, HI. 
6. J. Korzeneski, Chicago, HI. Ray Lawler, Chicago, HI. 
E. P. McGuire, Chicago, HI. Arthur W. Miller, Ft. Wayne, Ind. 
R. H. Mulligan, Chicago, HI. Wm. H. Murphy, Chicago, HI. Carl A. Pettersch, Chicago, HI. Richard A. Phalen, Chicago, HI. Ed P. Rafter, Chicago, HI. 
R. E. Rich, South Bend, Ind. George A. Scheuer, South Bend, Ind.' David H. Smith, Chicago, HI. Al Thomas, Lorain, Ohio Willard Wagner, South Bend, Ind. John Wallace, Calumet City, HI. Roy A. Worden, Goshen, Ind. 
1929 

Paul C Bartholomew, South Bend, 
Ind. Stephen Bocskey, Notre Dame, Ind. George A. Brautigan, Chicago, HI. Wm. E. Brown, Milwaukee, Wis. John Bulfin, Chicago, HI. 
J. W. Conboy, South Bend, Ind. Francis J. Gushing, Buffalo, N. Y. Jules Grossman, South Bend, Ind. Walter Hart, Oak Park, HI. Fred Haw, Chicago, HI. Everett Jewell, Peru, Ind. 
J. P. Kennedy, Chicago, HI. 
B. E. Loshbough, Wasliington, D. C Joseph Lauber, South Bend, Ind. John J. Lyons, Chicago, HI. Hugh J. McManigal, Van Wert, Ohio Joseph P. McNamara, Indianapolis, 
Ind. Francis M. Metrailer, Ft. Wayne, Ind. John R. Nash, Chicago, HI. George Rategan, Chicago, HI. .Tack Poche, Jr., Chicago, HI. .Tohn K. Rowland, St. Louis, Mo. 
J. K. Pussell, Donora. Pa. 
A. C Scherer, South Bend, Ind. Poland Schlager. Elgin. HI. 
W. B. Shanley. Calu"iet Citv, HI. Fi-ank A. Smola, Chicago, HI. Joseph S. Sullivan. Chicago, HI. Otis Winchester, Cleveland, Ohio 
1930 

AxiAy Aman, Jr., Dayton, Ohio Frank X. Amato, River Forest, HI. Joseph L. Apodaca, Notre Dame, Ind. Paul M. App, Fort Wayne, Ind. Edward L. Arthur, Secaurus. N. Y. Ralph Augusovitz, Niles, Mich. James A. Bartlev. Mornr^nfleld, Ky. 
M. J. Bishko, Clifton. N. J. August L. Bondi. South Bend, Ind. Martin Brill, Philadelphia. Pa. Wm. H. Bromann, Oak Park, HI. Arthur S. Burkert. Indianapnlis. Ind. Harry Busscher, Melrose Park, HI. .Toe Butler. Cleveland, Ohio Daniel F. Cannon, Jr., Colu'nbus, O. 
•Tack
Cannon, Columbus, Ohio 

T.
 J. Cassidy, Tuxedo Park, N. Y. Herman Cohen, Mishawaka, Ind. 


Bernard W. Conroy, New Kensington, Penn. Pat J. Conway, Warren, Ohio 
W. T. Craddick, C.S.C, Notre Dame, 
Ind. Ed J. Cronin, South Bend, Ind. Larry Cronin, New York City Charles E. DeWitt, South Bend, Ind. James W. Dodson, Pittsburgh, Pa. Vince Donahue, Chicago, HI. Bill Dore, Tiffin, Ohio Frank J. Downs, Jr., Oak Park, Bl. George E. Doyle, Buffalo, N. Y. Harrj' Draves, South Bend, Ind. 

J. Frank DriscoU, Brookline, Mass. Harold E. Duke, Ft. Wayne, Ind. William A. Dunlevj-, Youngstown, 0. Frank C. Eaton, Adams, Wisconsin Bob Eggeman, Ft. Wayne, Ind. Larrj' Enright, Chicago, 111. Arthur L. Erra, Akron, Ohio Charles A. Esola, East Chicago, Ind. 
F. A. Fink, Ft. Wayne, Ind. 

L. P. Fitzsimmons, Laporte, Ind. Thomas F. Foran, Chicago, 111. Harry Francis, Philadelphia, Pa. Thomas W. Frost, LaPorte City, Iowa Arthur J. Gallagher, Cleveland, Ohio John W. Gibbons, South Bend, Ind. John D. Golden, Chicago, 111. Louis Hasley, Notre Dame, Ind. Pat Hastings, Clinton, Mass. John P. Healy, Chicago, 111. 
D. A. Heenan, Salem, Oregon Paul C. Heidkamp, Chicago, 111. 
L. C. Heitger, Bedford, Ind. Jack Biggins, Chicago, Bl. 

E. J. Higgins, Chicago, 111. Jerome P. Holland, Chicago, Bl. Robert A. Holmes, Muncie, Ind. Henry T. Horka, Benton Harbor, 
Mich. John T. Houlihan, Chicago, 111. Jim Irwin, Buffalo, N. Y. Harold Jennings, South Bend, Ind. Thomas A. Keegan, Rockford, Bl. Joseph M. Kelleghan, Flint, Mich. Joseph P. Kelly, Brooklyn, N. Y. Tom P. Kenneally, New Brunswick, 
N.J. Tom Kerrigan, Chicago, Bl. Frank G. Kersjes, Washington, D. C. Marshall F. Kizer, Plymouth, Ind. Paul J. Kleiser, Indianapolis, Ind. Bill Knapp, Cleveland, Ohio Richard N. Konkowski, Chicago, HI. 
T. G. Lawler, Chicago, 111. Walter M. Langford, South Bend, Ind. Arthur S. Laszlo, South Bend, Ind. Tom Leahey, Albany, N. Y. James E. Leahy, Oak Park, Bl. Charles P. Lennon, Joliet, Bl. Norm Lillig, Detroit, Mich. Ray A. Loyce, Crown Point, Ind. Eugene Mahoney, Jamestown, N. Y. John M. Mahoney, Chicago, HI. Robert Marshall, Indianapolis, Ind. 
•
 Victor Martzel, Chicago, Bl. Leo R. McAloon, Pawtucket, R. I. Joseph McCabe, Chicago, Bl. 

J.
 E. McCarthy, Pittsford, N. Y. 

W.
 J. McCarthy, Chicago, Bl. Vince Mclntyre, Zanesville, Ohio 

E.
 R. McMahon, Detroit, Mich. Carl Moore, Mishawaka, Ind. John McMurray, Jr., Chicago, Bl. Thomas G. Medland, Chicago, Bl. Bert Metzger, Chicago, Bl. 


John T. Moran, Oak Park, Bl. 

C. J. Mullen, Chicago, Bl. Thomas G. Murphy, Franklin, Pa. John L. Nano\ic, New York City Edward J. Nebel, Pittsburgh, Pa. George O'Malley, Dixtfii, Bl. Tiemey A. O'Rourke, New York City Dan O'Shea, Waukegan, Bl. Dr. Richard O'Toole, Pittsburgh, Pa. Walter E. Parent, Michigan City, Ind. Fred Parent, South Bend, Ind. Robert E. Penuignot, Elkhart, Ind. Arthur E. Peterson, Chicago, 111. Devere Plunkett, Notre Dame, Ind. Dave Preschem, Chicago, Bl. Thomas Purcell, Oak Park, Bl. Ray Reardon, Waukegan, Bl. 
E. J. Redmond, Milwaukee, Wis. Jerry Reidy, Cleveland, Ohio Bill Reisert, Louisville, Ky. Jim Rigney, Chicago, Bl. John T. Rocap, Indianapolis, Ind. Wally Scahill, Chicago, Bl. Walter Scholand, Rochester, N. Y. Dennis Shanahan, Brooklyn, N. Y. Bill Sherman, Louisville, Ky. Al Shipacasse, Cleveland, Ohio 
J. L. Sigler, Cadillac, Mich. Vernon Slack, Jackson, Mich. 
E. E. Slick, Jr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
C. T. Smallwood, Chicago, Bl. Edward B. Smith, South Bend, Ind. Pi-ank J. Sowa, South Bend, Ind. 
W. N. Steitz, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
H. Louis Stettler, Jr., Rocky River, 
Ohio Dan Sullivan, White Plains, N. Y. James W. Sullivan, Royal Oak, Mich. Richard Sullivan, Kenosha, Wis. Malcolm E. Trombley, Mt. Clemens, 
Mich. 
H. E. Truitt, Chicago, Bl. Wm. Van Rooy, Cleveland, Ohio George G. Vlk, Washington, D. C. Donald G. Voss, Elkhora, Wis. John D. Voss, Hayward, Wis. Peter .L Wacks, Bingha^^ton, N. Y. Dick Walter, Chicago, 111. 
M. P. Ward, Monongahela, Pa. George T. Weber, Jr., Olney, Bl. Karl R. Weigand, Notre Dame, Ind. Bob Weschler, Erie, Pa. 
1931 
John E. Bergan, South Bend, Ind. James A. Biggins, Sharpsville, Pa. RajTnond F. Collins, Chicago, Bl. Tom Conley, Notre Dame, Ind. Edw. A. Coomes, Notre Dame, Ind. Jerome -T. Crowley, South Bend, Ind. Joseph P. Deeb, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
C. J. Donovan, Bedford, Ind. James F. Doyle, Chicago, Bl. 
R. J. Dunda, Joliet, Bl. Dan Egan, Chicago, Bl. Francis G. Pedder, Michigan City, 
Ind. 
J. B. Gallagher, Freeland, Pa. John R. Gannon, Pelham, N. Y. Matthew B. Garrigan, Saginaw, Mich. Joseph J. Gavin, Cleveland, Ohio Al Grisanti, Cleveland, Ohio Norman J. Hartzer, South Bend, Ind. Myron C. Hershfield, Goshen, Ind. Bill Karl, Newark, N. .T. 
J. P. Kellv, Brooklyn, N. Y. Alvin G. Kolski, Chicago. HI. Henry S. Kopeck, Detroit, Mich. 
Bert Maloney, South Bend, Ind. 
J. Marshall McAveney, Brooklyn, 
N. Y. Frank McGreal, Chicago, 111. James G. Murphy, Middletown, Conn. Myron Murphy, Rock Island, Bl. Ed Murray, Notre Dame, Ind. Bob Neydon, Detroit, Mich. Thomas Oakes, Chicago, Bl. Earl J. O'Brien, Milwaukee, Wis. Wm. O'Malley, Chicago, Bl. Robert Pendergast, Chicago, 111. Robert Ruppe, Notre Dame, Ind. Jos. R. Schroeder, Minneapolis, Minn. John R. Sullivan, Chicago, Bl. Wilbert L. Terre, Chicago Hgts., Bl. John Wallace, Chicago, Bl. Richard S. Walsh, Schenectady, N. Y. Charles Weiss. South B"nd, Ind. Martin P. Wider, Detroit, Mich. John H. Zuber, Saginaw, Mich. 
1932 
John S. Bany, Johnston, Pa. Joseph A. Blaney, Detroit, Mich. Bill Cass, Buffalo, N. Y. Carl Cronin, Chicago, III. Vincent J. Donohue, Philadelphia, Pa. Gabe Moran, Youngsto^vn, Ohio John W. Hamilton, Riverside, Conn. George P. Hennion, South Bend, Ind. Donald B. Killian, Canton, Ohio Walter A. Kiolbasa, Chicago, Bl. Arnold Klein, Minneapolis, Minn. John P. Kramer, Kalamazoo, Mich. Kenneth Kreps, South Bend, Ind. 
J. Regis Kuhn, Oil City, Pa. John P. Laughna, Grand Rapids, Mich. Robert E. Lee, Chicago, Bl. John G. Lesko, Windber, Pa. Walter P. Mullen, Rochester, N. Y. Leo A. NeisTnan, South Bend, Ind. Edward O'Malley, Notre Dame, Ind. Joseph Petritz, South Bend, Ind. James E. Rich, Grand Rapids, Mich. Robert J. Rohrbach, Highland Park, 
Mich. Marchy Schwartz, Omaha, Neb. Charles E. Spangenberg, Elmhurst, 
Bl. Joseph Toussaint, Notre Dame, Ind. Prank J. Trieweiler, Sioux City, Iowa 
1933 
Lawrence H. Baldinger, South Bend, 
Ind. Joseph W. Bean, Honesdale, Pa. James J. Boyle, Hubbai-d, Ohio Paul J. Boyle, Gary, Ind. Thomas A. Cannon, Muncie, Ind. Brother Columba, C.S.C, Notre Dame, 
Ind. Charles A. Conley, Connersville, Ind. Daniel B. Conlin, St. Joseph, Mich. Bernard L. Cousino, Erie, Pa. Patrick P. Crowley, Chicago, Bl. Thomas B. Dorris, Utica, N. Y. Joseph Egan, LaCrosse, Wis. Ralph J. Ehr, Horicon, Wis. John D. Pitzpatrick, Utica, N. Y. 
W. B. Ford, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Carlos Prank, Buffalo, N. Y. James Gerend, Sheboygan, Wis. Ray Gerend, Sheboygan, Wis. John P. Gill, Minot, No. Dak. Charles P. Hafron, South Bend, Ind. James Harris, Bellaire, Ohio C. J. Hess, Benton Harbor, Mich. Leo W. Hodel, Grafton, W. Va. Marvin 0. Huot, Kankakee, 111. Jack Jaeger, CWcago, HI. Joseph V. Kirincich, Joliet, 111. Zigmund H. Kitkowski, South Bend, 

Ind. George Kozak, Bedford, Ohio Maurice J. Krinowitz, Niles, Mich. 
E. Krusiec, Chicago, 111. Maurice W. Lee, Chicago, 111. Jack Lynch, Terre Haute, Ind. Wm. J. Martersteck, Detroit, Mich. Don Martin, Pittsburgh, Pa. Sherman W. Minsky, Lima, Ohio Joseph F. Muellner, South Bend, Ind. Paul P. O'Neil, Rochelle, 111. Arthur Prekowitz, South Bend, Ind. Arthur T. Ruppe, Hancock, Mich. Edward T. Ryan, Sandusky, Ohio Thomas P. Skeehan, Baden, Pa. Fred B. Suite, Jr., Chicago, HI. Al Stewart, Cortland, N. Y. 
L. W. Teske, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Edward Troy, South Bend, Ind. Nicholas Tsiolis, South Bend, Ind. Feliks L. Weatrowski, South Bend, 
Ind. Don Wise, Joliet, 111. Wm. P. Wittenburg, New Buffalo, 
Mich. 

1934 Victor C. Astone, Beacon, N. Y. Wm. N. Bartley, Brooklyn, N. Y. Robert E. Bon Durant, South Bend, Ind. John A. Buckley, Chicago, 111. Rocco Cacciatore, Yonkers, N. Y. Robert Cahill, Notre Dame, Ind. Edward Carey, Cleveland, Ohio Edward Carr, South Bend, Ind. 
R. C. Chenal, Cincinnati, Ohio John Clauder, Milwaukee, Wis. Edward A. Cosgrove, Pittsburgh, Pa. Bob Demer, Honesdale, Pa. Martin A. Donlan, Oak Park, 111. William Doyle, Chicago, 111. Charles A. Finkel, Clifton, N. Y. James I. Godfrey, Ann Arbor, Mich. Thomas E. Grimes, Niles, Mich. Robert Hamilton, Racine, Wis. Jim Helme, Chicago, 111. Charles Howard, South Bend, Ind. Edwin W. Kenefake, South Bend, Ind. Bob Kelley,'South Bend, Ind. Ed Kerns, Saginaw, Mich. John Kiple, Chicago, HI. Theodore A. Klosinski, South Bend, 
Ind. George W. Kohs,, Detroit, Mich. Bud Kramer, Brush, Colo. 
C. J. Kurdys, South Bend, Ind. Frank L. Linton, Chicago, HI. Paul A. Manoski, Huntington, Ind. Francis J. McGahren, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
H. M. McManus, Wenatchee, Wash. John A. McShane, Chicago, HI. 
N. T. Mizerski, Chicago, HI. 
E. M. Moran, Chicago, HI. 
J. R. Morrison, Chicago, HI. John I. Mullen, South Bend, Ind. Ed Murphy, Jonesville, Wis. Frank O'Brien, Elmira, N. Y. Francis O'Hara, Sandusky, Ohio Wm. C. O'Toole, Pittsburgh, Pa. August Petrillo, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. 
F. H. Poelking, Hollywood, Calif. 
E. D. Quinn, Bloomfield, N. J. 
R. Stanley Rensberger, Mishawaka, 
Ind. George A. Rocheleau, Chicago, HI. William J. Rockenstein, Butler, Pa. Albert E. Saleh, Tyler, Texas Russell Stemper, Chicago, HI. Francis E. Widger, Wilmette, HI. Michael F. Wiedl, Jr., Vandergrift, Pa. John Youngen, Aurora, HI. Carl E. Zimmerer, South Bend, Ind. 
1935-36 Class Officers 

Notre Dame students elected class 
officers and S.A.C. members for 1935­
'36, are: 
'The senior class officers: President, Howard Cusack; vice president, Wil­liam Belden; secretary, Arthur Kerns; treasurer, Arthur Huber; S. A. C. members. Engineering, Harold Stine; Arts and Letters, Charles Boyle; Conunerce, Eugene Tobin; Science, Francis Donoghue. 
Junior officers: President, Martin Bums; vice president, Thomas Foy; secretary, William Lynch; treasurer, George Lane; two-year S.A.C. mem­bers, Philip Bondi and John Cavan­augh; one year S.A.C, Albert Smith. 
Officers of the sophomore class: President, Thomas Mulligan; vice-president, Joseph J. O'Boyle; secre­tary, Chauncey Rooney; treasurer, William Brannigan; S.A.C. member, John Kelly. 
Fr. Motsett Returns 

Looking the picture of health, the Rev. Bourke Motsett, class of 1931, returned to the United States on May 7 after four years spent at the Amer­ican College in Rome, where he was ordained in April. He was met at the New York pier of the Cunard-White Star Line when his ship, the S. S. Berengaria, docked on that date by his brother, William Motsett, '33, and several friends. 
The famous Thursday Night Club of the Notre Dame Club of New York tendered him an informal dinner at its headquarters at the Centre Club, 120 Central Park South, on Thursday, May 9. Among those present were Gordon Salmon, John E. Foley and Dan D. Halpin, all of the class of 1931, Tom Lantry and John V. Hin­kel, of the class of 1929, and H. Jerome Parker, '31, new executive secretary of the Centre Club. 
Father Motsett said his first solemn High Mass at St. Mary's Cathedral in his home town of Peoria, 111., on Sunday, May 19. He will be assigned to a parish in the Diocese of Peoria. 
Three other Notre Dame men are still at the American College in Rome, according to Father Motsett. They are the Rev. Joseph Ryan, Boston, Mass., Boy Guidance, '28, Loras Lane, of Dubuque, Iowa, class of 1932, and Edward O'Mallev, of Albany, N. Y., ex-1933. 
Hully and Mike 

One of the highlights of the dvic testimonial banquet given for the 1934 Notre Dame football squad and coaches on Jan. 15 was a tribute to "HuUy and Mike" —George F. Hull and Michael F. Calnon, of South 
For years, through good times and bad for Notre Dame's footbaU for­tunes, the two one-time cigar store partners have been loyal supporters of the team, and this devotion was recognized in a poem written by Rev. Thomas Burke, C.S.C, and read at the banquet by the toastmaster, John 
T. McGovem. Mr. Calnon still operates the cigar store and Mr. Hull is president of the city coxmcil. 
Following is Father Burke's poem, tittled "Mike and Hully." 
Somewhere in the early glory Of N. D. there is a story Of two heroes whose achivements have too 
long been left unsung; Men of brawn and bone and muscle Who were not afraid to hustle. And who held fame's ladder steady while our 
teams climbed rung by rung. 

All the boys knew Mike and Hully, Names that did not dim nor sully During those long trying hours when so many 
men went down; True as gold and single-minded. Their clear eyes were never blinded By ambition or self-seking that might gain 
for them renown. 

Every team that left the station For whatever destination Had these two old faithful rooters to escort 
them on their way: Texas knew their smiling faces. And at West Point there are traces • Of the fine support they gave the team when 
it went on there to play. Other men have let the limelight Of a winning season shine bright On their iigures as they traveled through the 
country with the squad; But you'd never find them choosing These trips when the team was -losing. For it meant humiliation and they cringed 
beneath the rod. 

Not so these two I In dark hours When the dreary gloom of showers Dampened other dispositions they were ready 
with their smile; And they cheered the boys who faltered 'Till defeat was sometimes altered— But defeated or triumphant they went with 
them mile by mile. 

In their little old cigar store Boys were schooled in Notre Dame lore. Learned the story of traditions that they carry 
with them still: And you'll find those fellows loyal With a friendship that is royal Though you meet them in life's valley or upon 
its topmost hill. Now another generation Of our boys have taken station On the campus, who know nothing of our 
stony road to fame; But the old boy as he muses In the twilight never loses Sight of dear old Mike and Hully who grew 
up with Notre Dame. 
a'.' •• 'J 
^.*^ I'' *'" f 
© 1935, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. 







