The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
6(\ 
r{^ 
NOTRE DAME AUMNUS 
1791 
m DAME ^ P I liit'l ALUMNUS if c 
Volume 41, Number 7 Quadragesimo Anno February-March, 1963 
Fortieth Anniversary Issue, dedicated to the memory of Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C. (1882­1963), Eleventh President of the University of Notre Dame, during whose administration (1922-1928) the NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS was founded and began to flourish. 

NOTRE DAME Sditoml Comment ALUMNUS 
Vol. 41 No. 1 
James E. Armstrong, '25 
Editor 
John F. Laughlin, '48 
Managing Editar 
COVER AND CONTENTS 

of this issue are frankly nostalgic, reviewing 40 years of publication and mourning the recent pass­ing of men who shaped those yeors, Father Matt Walsh, Joe Byrne, Tom Beocom and Jim Sanford. 
Thii nuganne is published bl-montHly by the Univcraty of Notre Dame, Notre Dune, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. .1, 1939, at the Post Office. Notre Dame, Ind. tinder the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION DIRECTORS 1963-66 
Installed at the winter meeting of the Alumni Board, Febroory 14-16, 1963: 
George A. Bariscillo, Jr., 
'44 
Paul 1. 
Fenlon, 
•19 
Morton R. Goodman, •30 
W . Loncoster 
Smith, •50 
from your Alumni Secretary 



HISTOR/CAL NOTE 
This is a modified "Quadragesimo Anno." It marks the 40th Anniversary' of the first Alumni Office, the first full-time Alumni Secretar\' (actually modified by the continuing duties of Alfred C. Ryan, '20, as graduate man­ager of athletics under K. K. Rockne), and — in Januarj', 1923 — the establishment of the ALUMNUS mag­azine. 

Historically, the Alumni Association came into being in 1868. It -vras, re­organized, and functioned continuously thereafter, in 1908, under the late Rev. John VV. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. From 1908 until 1922, the business of the Association was conducted by its elected officers, and priests and facult)' mem­bers on the campus. 
This period of volunteer leadership produced a strong sense of organiza­tion, and keeping of records on the campus, which provided a strong basis when permanent organization was ef­fected under full-time staff direction. 
The period also produced the Old Student Hall Fund, which grew to more than $100,000, and was the key gift in the Universitj''s first endowment and building campaign, securing for that $2,000,000 endeavor the matching gifts of the General Education Board ($250,000) and the Carnegie Founda­tion ($75,000). 
In 1922 there were appro.ximately 2,500 Notre Dame alumni, and a net­work of just over 20 Local Alumni Clubs. Today, we have 35,000 alumni and 190 local alumni clubs. 
From its early days, the Alumni As­sociation has initiated programs of significance to alumni and to Notre Dame. Beginning in 1926, the poten­tial of good placement service %vas rec­ognized. The late Bill Dooley advanced this activity during his tenure in the .Alumni Office to a point where the progi-am was adopted by die University 
as a full-time office, now directed bv 
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C. 
In 1929, the late Frank Hayes of Chicago was an ardent apostle of the introduction of the annual alumni fund, which enjoyed a short but prom.­ising experience in 1930-31, being", suspended when the Rockne Memorial; building campaign was launched in, 1931. But the roots remained, and in 1941, in preparation for the Universit>'i Centennial, die Association, under; President Harrj- F. Kelly, '17, intro­duced the First Annual Alumni Fund, which has continued. From the pay­ment of $5 annual dues by some 2,500 to 3,000 alumni before that date, die First Fund received more than $100,000, and by 1947 in spite of the war years, alumni had given $936,000. to the Universit)'. 

In 1947, President Harry F. Hogan. '04, of the Alumni Association, studied the Universit)' challenges and the alumni income record and decided that outside help must be solicited on an immediate and a broader basis. The result, working with the University through its President, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, was the Notre Dame Foundation. As you may know, the results of the broadened program! brought in some $27,000,000 in the| ensuing 10 years, and laid the ground-, work for the success of the $18,000,000|' three-year effort and the matchingi $6,000,000 Ford Foundation grantf which looks now to culminate by thel scheduled deadline, July 1 of this yearll Alumni, in the three years of thisS major eff'ort have given and pledgedf ahnost $6,000,000 a figure twice thel projected expectation of the profes­sional fund counsel from this source. 
The University's greatest single pub-1 lie relations force, consistently and con-1 
(Continued on page 10) 

NotTt. Dame Alumnus. Feb.-March, 1963 
Libraxj 



QUADRAGESIMO ANNG 
... . we want to give them the op­portunity to review Notre Dame of their time as well as gather a glimpse of what the school is today. We hope their interest has been sufficient for them to see that Notre Dame is pro­gressing academically and athletically. Notre Dame has changed. 
With this inevitable change has come a number of policies that many are not familiar with. One of these is the deeper, whole-hearted University inter­est in her alumni and old students. This interest is manifested for no other purpose than the uniting of Notre Dame men on the outside, keeping alive those friendships and interests that are most cherished because they found formation at the happiest period in anyone's life, that of youth. 
One of the means of maintaining that spirit, keeping it alive and letting it increase in value as the years go on, is this magazine. It is edited with only the interest of Notre Dame and her men of every year every^vhere in mind. We feci that to serve them, we serve the University, and serving the Uni­versity we pay the tribute worthy of Catholic education and its growth.— NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS, October, 1923. 

W
ITH THIS issue, the ALUMNUS both completes its fortieth year . and begins its forty-first volume of ' publication. i' At first printed monthly for nine ^ months of the academic year (in a miniature format), it has changed in ,» recent years to a bimonthly publica­tion schedule and spread its sbc issues >." (including two newsletter versions) over the endre calendar year, coordi­nating its appearance with a sister mag-T azine, the quarterly NOTRE DAME, and various special mailings. In its various forms over the past I, .40 years, the ALUMNUS has been prophet or precursor, witness and re­•• corder of all significant events in which the University and her alumni have 
been involved. k It is to highlight a few of those events and to spotlight some of the ' men who made them that this brief 
' chronicle is presented. 
''  THE EARLY YEARS:  In  January ,  
\  FOUNDING, POLICY,  1923, die Alum­ 
\  AND FIRST EDITORS  ni  AssociatioH  

A Cursory Chronology of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS, 1923-1963 
of the first graduate of the 1840's, Rev. N'eal Gillespie, C.S.C. The Board of di­rectors (then known as alumni trus­tees) had been operating as a con­tinuous body for 15 years since the reorganization of 1908. 
Rev. Matthew J. VValsli, C.S.C, was president of Notre Dame and prepar­ing the most dramatic building pro­gram and physical expansion the Uni­versity had ever knouTi. And lormer president Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, had undertaken the direction of an unprecedented endowment drive for the magnificent sum of one million dollars, detaching Rev. John C Mc­Ginn, C.S.C, from his duties as gen­eral secretary of the Alumni Associa­tion to travel the country seeking funds for the University (in a striking fore­shadowing of the Notre Dame Foun­dation) accompanied by two young laymen, Joseph McGinness and Earl Dickens. 
Left to manage the new head­quarters at 101 Administration BIdg. was the acting secretary, Alfred C Ryan, '20. Already doubling as grad­uate manager of athletics, young Al Ryan and a classmate (Vincent F. 
Fagan, who died in 1951) launched yet another project that January. That project was the ALUMNUS, which man­aged four issues in that scholastic year and began monthly publication the fol­lowing fall. 
The new magazine supplemented the running history of the University, as presented in the SCHOLASTIC and DOME, with the viewpoint of the alum­ni as a department of the integral Uni­versity. The purpose of the publication then, as now, was threefold communi­cation: to the alumni, the plans and policies of the administration; to the administration, the aspirations and achievements of the alumni; and be­tween Notre Dame men, the fullest personal news to insure close personal contact. 
Editor Ryan was elected officially as secretary at the 1924 meeting of the Board, retaining editorship ex officio as well as his athletic duties. He was soon assisted in the coverage of campus events by an undergraduate writer from the journalism department. The stu­dent, James E. Armstrong, was grad­uated in 1925 and called back at the beginning of the following year to take 

j ginningfounded  was already be­ its 55th year, having been  in 1868 under the leadership  By 1948, the ALUMNUS had split into two separate publications, presenting the the internal (alumni) and external (institutional) "imoges" of the Universily respectively.  
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963  3  

IN MEMORIAM: REV. MATTHEW J. WALSH, CS.C '03 (1882 -1963) 
Leaving it to future issues to recount Father Walsh's remarkable career as priest, president and pedagogue, we go to press with this simple tribute reprinted from the "Religious Bulletin" of January 2! after his death on January 19: 
PR. WALSH mth FR. HESBURGH 

over the post of alumni secretar\' and editor, in which post he has now ser\-ed 37 years. The tradition of tripling in brass continued with Jim's ser\-ice then and later as publicity director for the Universit)-. 
EARLY CONTENTS: The first issues 
CLASSES, CLUBS, ha d articles o n 
AND U.N.D. NIGHT th e Universit)''s 
expansion, growth of tlie Holy Cross Fathers, campus tra­ditions, reports of the colleges and de­partments — and of course, reports on and by the inimitable K. K. Rocknc. The first few years saw the beginnings of most programs being implemented today: a placement program was pro­posed in 1926 after attempts at pro­fessional directories: the living endow­ment called for in 1929 became the Annual Fund of the Forties; continu­ing education was begun with the book page of the late Rev. John W. Cava­naugh, C.S.C. But from the first issue the primary concern was reporting the actiwties of Notre Dame men in the .\lumni Classes and Clubs. In this there has been little change. 
Alumni numbered about 2,500 then, and the time was ripe for Class organi­zation. By February, 1924, 25 Class Secretaries had gone into action, and the list quickly grew to include the 50 active Classes. 
The tolling of the bell in Sacred Heart Church at IIHM) on Saturday morning announced the death of the Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C., eleventh President of Notre Danie (1922-1928). Father Walsh had hcen at death's door for months, and the sad tollini; of the bell symbolized the sorrow of the Notre Dame community in losini; him, not the joy of the Heavenly choirs in welcoming a Christ-like priest who had ser\°ed Notre Dame, his religious community, and his God well. 
Scholar, administrator, soldier, professor — to all his priestly assignments, Father Walsh brought an incisive mind, a subtle humor,'and a gracious courtesy. Aristocratic in bearing, he was remarkable for his humility. 
It was during his years as president that Notre Dame began the physical expan­sion that goes on to this day. During his six years in office, Howard, Lyons, Morrissey. and the South Dining Halls were built, and the enrollment was doubled. As vice-presi­dent between 1910 and 1922 he had been instrumental in hiring Rocknc as football coach, and during his term as president Rockne produced the teams that brought Notre Dame national football prominence. 
In 1928 Father Walsh graciously passed on the reigns of authority to others, and while his prudent advice as the elder statesman was frequently sought, he was never knou-n to criticize. For the next nineteen years, imtil his retirement in 1947, Father Walsh devoted himself to the teaching of history, the field in which he had earned his doctorate shortly after his ordination in 1907. 
Last December 21 Father Walsh observed the fifty-fifth anniversary of his ordi­nation confined to his bed in the Students' Infirmary. In his last long illness his humility allowed him to accept the constant ministrations of his doctors, nurses, and fellow religious in a cheerful and resigned manner. 
.\lumni Clubs had been forming foolhardiness of the 1935 football effort across the country for twenty years, but against Ohio State. no blossoming was as rapid as that of The late ^Villialn R. Dooley, '26, the Twenties with the stimulus of Uni­was a great asset throughout this versal Notre Dame Night. Announced 
period, to the ALU.MNUS as managing in the spring of 1924 by tlie national 
editor during the Thirties and Forties, president, John H. Neeson, '03, of 
to the .Alumni Association as assistant Philadelphia, the program mobilized 
secretary and tireless worker on a place­the University's greatest personalities, 
ment program that blossomed into the led by Father Walsh and Knute 
University department now headed by Rockne, in a national tribute to Notre Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C. 
Dame's intellectual, moral and spiritual In the mid-30's the .•Muiiini Office resources. Forty Clubs participated. It and magazine were enlisted to assist in has been repeated annually on the first a program of student recmitment. The Mondav after Easter with ever srreater 
Alumni Board subsequently developed the Preparatoiy School Committee for high-school visits and .-Mumni inter­

DEPRESSION YEARS: The Thirties viewing of applicants, now directed by*;,, STEADY GROWTH IN saw a stubbom the Admissions Office under Rev. POWER, PROGRAMS expansion on all James Moran, C.S.C. fronts, as if The growth of the Clubs and Classes spurred by economic difficulty and such continued, helped by a steady growth 
sorrows as the death of Rockne. Effort in national prestige and local programs against all odds seemed to characterize that quickly spread. Universal Notre ever}' development: the growth of or­Dame Communion Sunday, begun bv ganization in spite of meager financing New York alumni in 1938, is now ob-by dues: a dogged campaign to erect ser\-ed throughout the world on the a Rocknc Memorial field house as the Sunday nearest the feast of the 
only adequate tribute to the great Immaculate Conception, sjwtlighting mentor; an anti-Contmunist campaign alumni dedication to the ideals of re­announced in 1935 by the national ligion and citizenship. The twin ideals president, Francis Wallace, '23, in a were never better realized than in this 
period of the greatest national indif­year's centennial tribute to Rev. Wil­ference to a growing conspiracy — all liam Corby, C.S.C, the chaplain of seemed to participate in the apparent Gettvsbure. 
•t Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
i THE WAR YEARS: First tested in .1 RETRENCHMENT, the Civil War, then NEW STRENGTHS in World War I, ' the flower of Notre Dame was called to the third and cost­liest trial of spirit and patriotism by the . events at Pearl Harbor on Universal 
N.D. Communion Sunday, 1941. No dreams of the Association and , the ALUMNUS were spared. Plans care­fully drawn up for the University 
' Centenar)' were much modified, as were the returns of the First Annual Alumni Fund announced by the na­
• tional president, Harry Kelly, '17. Sec-retarj'-editor Armstrong was remobi­' lized in publicity by a manpower short­
age and dwindling alumni activity. Many of the 100-plus Clubs stopped 

• reporting for a decade or more. Classes were decimated before they were grad­uated. 
But latent loyalties bloomed anew as future Notre Dame Clubs were formed on distant bases and beach­

, heads to the strains of the Victory March around the world. And reports to and from Class Secretaries came in via V-Mail with addresses prefaced "APO" or "FPO." Exotic terms like "V-12" and "GI BILL" presaged a reflowering beyond the wildest prewar dreams. 
THE ALUMNI BOOM: The story of FOUNDATIONS AND the years since SHRINKING SPACE \Vorid War II 
and the dyna­mism of Notre Dame and her alumni during the University administrations of Fathers John J. Cavanaugh and Theodore M. Hesburgh defy all de­scription and analysb in the ALUMNUS. 
It may be a narrative to defy any language but that of the new Computer Center. Data to be processed? Enroll­ment, faculty and physical plant have roughly quadrupled since 1923; while the endowment, the budget, and the number of alumni have increased near­ly 20 times over. There were about 20 Notre Dame Alumni Clubs around the country in 1923; today there are near­ly 10 times as many around the world. 
One problem had persisted — space. In a world conditioned to outer space, the cry at Notre Dame was still for inner space, lab and library, classroom, residence hall and field house. Nowhere was the problem more acute tlian in the ALUMNUS, where alumni news had crowded other matters into ever finer type and fewer pages. There was plenty of space for improvement in student aid and faculty salaries. For the post­nounced a $66 million goal for the war space problem, new sources of sup­second decade, half of which has been port and outlets for the N.D. story realized with unexpected help from were needed immediately. another — the Ford — Foundation. 

To President John H. Neeson, '03, Perhaps a future aimiversary issue and the Alumni Board of 1947, the will describe this period in its entirety: one-word problem had a one-word the growth of reunions, summer and answer: Foundation. Created simul­fall; the growth of the Clubs through taneously were the Notre Dame men named Tom — Carroll, Keman Foundation and NOTRE DAME maga­and Fr. O'Donnell — and of the maga­zine, dedicated respectively to seeking zines under editors named John — support and spreading the word be­Bums, Cackley, Janowski, Laughlin; yond tlie alumni, among other founda­Foundation plans under Jim Frick and tions, parents and friends, industry and Father John Walsh; the Sublime Tra­government. A professional staff and a dition insert and continuing education, network of alumni volunteers raised etc. $27 million within 10 years and an­
It might take another forty years. 

THOMAS H. BEACOM, '20, LL.D. '55 JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., '15 
MEMBERS OF THE ASSOCIATE BOARD OF LAY TRUSTEES 
REQUIESCANT IN PACE 
Tom Beacom deHvcred his oivn epitaph last year with a Chicago address <HI "Why I Believe," printed in a recent issue. The following on Joe Byrne was sent by a friend and admirer: 
TO THE MEN OF NOTRE DAME 
Just a few short days ago, a Notre Dame alumnus died. He was not just an ordinaxy alunmm but lather one who had three main objectives in life . . . duty to God, his family and his beloved Notre Dame. Few of today's students know him; thousands of active alumni considered him their friend. 
The alumnus who counts two decades or more since he last walked the quadransle begins to have nostalgic leanings, and the more he does, the more docs today's student become cynical toward him . . . the more he ridicules. He docs this because he cannot yet look back and think of the joyous days he lived as a student. Some day he will, and when he does, then he, too, will relive in memory those most wonderful moments — just as this alumnus did so often. But only time can enable you to do this. The present is too sharp — too clear for you. The ptoblems of student days are much too real to wax poetic about a mere school. 
The Notre Dame man we ar* talking about ne%-er ceased to live Notre Dame. He never ceased to admire her, to love her and cherish her as perhaps few alumni ever have. He was a truly great benefactor and a tireless worker on her behalf. "Mr. Notre Dame** they called him. Fifty years of selfless devotion to his beloved Alma Mater . . . from working closely with Rockne the student and coach to his service for Fathers Walsh, Charles 0*D<mnell, 0*Hara, Hugh 0*DonneQ, Cavanaugh, on up to our President Father Hesburgh. 
If each of you, after you leave Notre Dame, can carry with you a very small part of that over­whelming spirit that was this man's moving force, then the future of our beloved Notre Dame is secure . . . for she shall surely remain one of the truly great universities of the world. 
Yes, these are only words to you now. Yet someday, they will have meanil^ . . . the mraning that the Spirit of Notre Dame should continue to grow in your hearts, stronger and stronger as the years pass on. It did for Joe Byrne, Jr. Notre Dame, Class of 1913. 
—^Ange Amato, *42 

Notre Dame Alumniu, Feb.-March, 1963 

NEED ANY 1963 FOOTBALL TIX? WRITE UNI VAC 1107! 
or A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Computer Center 
G
OSH. It's a year already since we led ofT tliis piece by complaining about the size of our nine by nine office with four doors, no windows, no venti­lation, and penicillin cultures on the walls. We're still sitting in that same splendid cubicle, but you know some­thing? We like this nine by nine closet with four doors, no windows, no venti­lation, and penicillin cultures on the walls, and I'll tell you why. . . . 
Couple of weeks ago we got an invi­tation from the nice gentleman who is putting our spanking new UNR'AC 1107 Digital Computer through its paces to attend a brief seminar in order to "get acquainted with your digital computer." Well, I was a little bit miffed. I thought to myself I've been on this campus nearly 35 years and it would seem that if UNR^AG 1107 wanted to get acquainted it ought to look me up. Besides, I'd been a little troubled over rumors about these gad­gets and how they've changed tlie con­notation of the term Displaced Persons. But we went anyway — Ed Krause our Athletic Director and Herb Jones our Business Manager and I strolled over. Well, it was kind of hilarious. Moose Krause had just returned from a "speaking engagement" in Las Vegas, and he kept looking on the side of the thing for the lever to pull. He found it, and before they finally got the cur-
By BOB CAHILL, '34 Athletic Ticket Manager 
rent shut ofT The Aloose had )iit the jackpot for about 800 volts AC. Herb Jones, who arranges trips, meals, and all like that — Herb kept shouting questions at Ol' 1107 like "AVhat time do we land at Idlewild?" and "What's tliis expense account item of $25 for beverages?" He was plenty disgusted at not getting a vocal reply so he's not very impressed. He said it reminded him of his Uncle Pat who once got a Thermos jug for Christmas. Pat said he could understand how the jug could keep something cold, or keep some­thing hot. . . but he never could figure out how the dam thing knew when to do which! Now it seems tiie "when to do which" is called Programing, in Computerese. Anyhow, after hearing this nice computer gentleman seminar about an hour and a half on Program­ing and absorbing a general idea of all the things this Digital Demon can do, for once Cahill kept his big mouth shut. "No questions," I said, just like Perr)' Mason; and I turned on my heel and slunk back to this wonderful little nine by nine office with four doors, no windows, no ventilation, and penicillin cultures on the walls. So now you know why I LIKE this little office — you couldn't even begin to fit a UNI­VAC 1107 in here! 

But to get serious, I know you've all been waiting breathlessly to get into the meat of this article — Football Ticket Info and Regulations for 1963, They're still the same, but as we haven't played in Yankee Stadium since 1949 and mil meet Syracuse there this year, will you EASTERN BOYS please review the bidding and pay special attention to points Four and Five. They tell you in advance how to obtain more than the TWO tickets called for on the Alum­ni Advance order form. Thanks. . . . 
ADVANCE SALE PROCEDURE 

1. Contributors to the 20th Annual Alumni Fund in 1962, religious and honorary degree holders, plus the June Class of 1963, are eligible for advance sale order forms for the 1963 football season. A contribution recorded SINCE Januar)' 1, 1963, afTords ticket priority for 1964, but NOT for this current year of 1963. Many alumni send in a year-end donation which does not reach Foundation books until after the new year; and so their address plate is skipped for advance sale envelopes. Tr)- to think back, and if this picture fits you, Uien tell the Alumni Office NOW to credit you for a 1962 contri­bution, 
2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20, closes July 15. Any order filed after that date, regardless of the category of order form used, will receive general use treatment. Nor is an order filed before July 15 guaranteed a preferred location (see Paragraph 4). 

3.
 The "Alumni Advance Sale" or­der form carries this designation in bold type on its face for ready identification. Eligible alumni should receive these just prior to June 20. If you haven't, and you're certain of your eligibilit)', notify the Ticket Manager at once. Our envelopes are addressed by the Alumni Association, but filled and mailed by the Ticket Office. Omissions are usually caused by address changes, so if your address differs from that used for this issue of the AI-UMNUS, forward that change AT ONCE to the Alimini Office. Envelopes are addressed in May, and changes after May 10 are difficult. 


4.
 Advance Sale forms are limited to TWO TICKETS per game, are not trans­ferable, will be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is exhausted. SEATS ARE ALLOTTED IN ACCORDANCE \viTH DATE RECEIVED, modified only as follows: Orders arriving BEFORE open­ing day (June 20) are integrated at random with those received on June 20. Then, at close of business June 20, all applications received at that point are thoroughly shuffled, DRAWN BY LOT AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE NUMBER to establish the order of seat assignment for each game for all orders on hand opening day. Since three or four thou­sand orders for each of the more popu­lar games will arrive for processing on June 20 (accounting for sLx or eight thousand tickets), obviously even a first-day order for such games could be on the fifty or beyond the goal line, DE­PENDING OF THE LUCK OF THE DRAW. 


Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
This is the answer to the alumnus' question as to why, although he ordered for all games on the very first day, he may receive fine seats for one game, poor ones for another (or fine seats for all; or poor seats for all). After Monogram and Season ticket (more about Season tickets below) orders are satisfied, ONLY 4,000 TICKETS ARE 
AVAILABLE IN NOTRE DAME STADIUM BETWEEN THE GOAL AND FIFTY IN THE ALUMNI SECTION. Hence, for the more popular games, it is readily seen that a first-day order could fare poorly; and an alumnus waiting to file his order until July 1 or after can look for noth­ing but seats behind the north goal (please look at the diagram). Games away from home usually present even more seating problems because of the normally small allotment available to the visting team in proportion to the geographical balance of our following. 
GENERAL AND BLOCK SALES 
5. General Use ticket applications are mailed annually to ALL alumni the latter part of July, prior to the August 1 opening of public sale. While it is possible that Advance Sale described above could claim our entire ticket supply, as of now we feel there will be public sale for all games. General Use forms are transferable and usually valid for unlimited quantit)' of tickets. THE CONTRIBUTING ALUMNUS AVHO HAS ALREADY USED HIS ADVANCE SALE FORM FOR TWO TICKETS MAY PLACE ADDI­TIONAL ORDERS VIA THE GEN­ERAL FORM. Moreover, the Gen­eral Use form is a convenient reminder to the noncontributinsr alumnus that 
tickets are available. These General forms carry no locational preference, for all such orders are filled after Ad­vance Sale purchases. 
6.
 Public sale opens annually on August 1. The Ticket Committee will be glad to send public order forms to any addressee upon request as long as tickets are available. 

7.
 Alumni Clubs planning on a block of tickets for an excursion must file a request with the Ticket Manager BY JUNE 20. Final action on block orders may not be taken until individual sale closes July 15, and then only if suffi­cient tickets remain. However, a tenta­tive reser\'ation will be made and an Alumni Club will be given preference in case of short supply. For some games no groups EXCEPT Alumni Clubs may be considered. But as to seat locations for groups, the following is positive: BLOCK ORDERS .^RE FILLED FROM SEr\TS 


REMAINING AFTER ALL INDIVIDUAL OR­DERS HAVE BEEN ASSIGNED. THI S PERJIITS ONLY END ZONE SEATS, IN­VARIABLY. 
8. Alumni Clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle or fund-raising awards. Be­cause of the problems described in Paragraph 4, unless a Club member (or members) surrenders his Advance Sale privilege for the game desired, tickets for prizes must be of the general sale variety. 
THE SEASON TICKET SITUATION 
Each year, many alumni inquire as to whether it is to tlieir advantage to use Alumni Advance order blanks, game by game, or buy a Season Ticket, which admits to all of the home games. 

NOTRE OAHE 5TA0IUU 
J -6 
nS 

.... .. ... • Saoion Tickcit and Faculty '^^^^^^^^ Visiting Team {.o.iabi*) 
18 

I Uni««tiity AdminitiraiioR MTC-IO [ Srudcnt Body 
ATC-II 
"SniS

CATC-14 
1963 FOOTBALL SCHB>ULE 
HOME 
Sept. 28 Wisconsin 
Oct. 12 So. California 
Oct. 19 UCU 
Nov. 2 Navy 
Nov. 9 Pittsburgh 
AWAY 
Oct. 5 Purdue 
Oct. 26 Stanford 
Nov. 16 Michigan State 
Nov. 23 Iowa 
Nov. 28 Syracuse (New York Gty) 
The answer depends on what the alum­nus wants. If two tickets meet his needs, then he should use his Alumni Advance privilege. Although this privi­lege doesn't guarantee preferred loca­tion (again see Paragraph 4), still the opportunity is there. With the Season Ticket there is no alumni preference, and only end zone seats are available. It is renewable automatically each May 1, however, with no quantity limit If location is not paramount, an alumnus may assure himself of any quantity of tickets for each game renewable each year via the Season Ticket plan. Alum­ni might presume, after looking over the stadium diagram, that the Season Ticket locations shown in the alumni sections (Section 8 and 9) are held by, and available to, alumni only. Not so. These Season Tickets were available to anyone prior to 1943, when the alumni section was more than adequate. Because of the renewal feature of Sea­son Tickets, removal of these patrons from alumni sections is a slow process. However, we have not sold any Season Tickets in Sections 8 and 9'SINCE 1942. The Season Ticket sale opens annually on May 1 and we shall be glad to send complete information upon request. 
MUSINGS . . . 
AVe'd like to remind all of you who were thinking of a trip to New York City for our Syracuse game that it will be played in Yankee Stadium on Thanksgiving Day with a kickoff time of twelve noon. Since Syracuse is the host team, the date and time were set by that school. 
VS'e got it direct from the Corby Hall janitor that the NEW FIELD HOUSE may soon become a reality. So don't throw away that return postage from the FOUNDATION. Now they're important! 
See you at the Waldorf Bar. Or should we make it the New York PubKc Library. . . . ? 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.'March, 1963 
Twelve members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, representing Haiti; and Bishop Alfred Mcndez., C.S.C., of Arecibo, Puerto Rico. the commtmity's apostolates in the United States, Canada, Europe, Standing left to right are: Rt. Rev. Msgr. William Dohcny, Asia, Latin America and Africa, are participating in the historic CS.C, a consultant to the Cotmcil; Auxiliary Bishop Maurice Second Vatican Council. Choquet, CS.C, of Cap Haitien; Bishop Vincent McCauIcy, CS.C, 
Seated left to right are: Bishop Raymond Larosc, C.S.C., of of Fort Portal, Uganda; Auxiliary Bishop Mark McGrath, CS.C, Chittagong, East Pakistan; Archbishop LauTence Graner, C.S.C., of Panama City, Panama; Rev. Mr. Thomas Langdcn, CS.C, a of Dacca, East Pakistan; Very Rev. Gennain Lalande, C.S.C., theological student in Rome; and Rev. Edward Heston, CS.C, a superior general; Bishop Albeit Cousincau, C.S.C., of Cap Haitien, Council consultant. 


CS.C at the Council 
Holy Cross Fathers Represented by 12 Ecumenical Participants 
T
WEL\'E MEMBERS of the Congrega­Of the Holy Cross representatives CS.C , Bishop of Chittagong, East Pak­tion of Holy Cross, including present for the ecumenical council, istan; The Most Rev. Alfred Mendez, eight bishops and the Superior Gen­seven are Americans, four are Canadi­CS.C, '31, Bishop of Arecibo, Puerto eral, are attending sessions of the Sec­ans, and one is a native of East Paki­Rico; The Most Rev. Vincent J. Mc­ond Vatican Council convened by Pope stan. Six of them are Notre Dame Cauley, CS.C , '30, Bishop of Fort John XXIII. graduates, and t%vo of the prelates have Portal, Uganda; The Most Rev. Mau­
In addition to the prelates and the been awarded honorar)' doctorates by rice Choquet, CS.C , Auxiliarj' Bishop bead of the community, who are Coun­the University. of Cap-Haitien; The Most Rev. Theo­cil Fathers with the right to speak and The group includes: The Most Rev. tonius A. Ganguly, CS.C, '49, Au.xili­vote, t\vo priests of the Congregation Lawrence L. Graner, CS.C , '24, Arch­ary Bishop of Dacca, East Pakistan; are serving as consultants, and a Holy bishop of Dacca, East Pakistan; The The Most Rev. Mark G. McGrath, Cross seminarian is using a newly-Most Rev. Albert F. Cousineau, CS.C, CS.C, '48, Auxiliary Bishop of Pana­developed Latin shorthand to help re­LL.D. '52, Bishop of Cap-Haitien, ma City, Panama; The Very Rev. cord the historic proceedings. Haiti; The Most Rev. RajTnond Larose, Germain-M. Lalande, CS.C, Superior 
S Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rome, Italy; The Rt. Rev. Msgr. William J. Doheny, C.S.C., a member of the Sacred Roman Rota at the Vati­can; Rev. Edward L. Heston, C.S.G., procurator general of the Congregation of Holy Cross, Rome, Italy; and Rev. Mr. Thomas Langdon, C.S.C., '59, a theological student in Rome. 
Archbishop Graner is the ranking prelate among members of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross participating in the Council. He has been appointed by the Holy Father to serve on the Commission on the Missions. Ten Com­missions with twenty-four members each have been created to assist the Council in its work. Eighty of the Commissions' members were appointed by the Pope, and 160 were elected by the 2,600 Council Fatliers, 
A native of Franklin, Pa., Archbishop Graner is an alumnus with an honorary Doctor of Laws degree awarded in 1947. The veteran missionary was or­dained to the priesthood in 1928, was consecrated a bishop in 1947 and be­came the first Archbishop of Dacca in 1950. 
Bishop Mendez, bom in Chicago, 111., was graduated from Notre Dame in 1931 and was ordained four years later. He served for many years in the Texas missions and later as a facult)­member and official at Notre Dame. He was elevated to the hierarchy in 1960. 
A missionary in East Pakistan and Uganda virtually all his priestly life. Bishop McCauley is a native of Coun­cil Bluffs, la. He received a liberal arts degree at Notre Dame in 1930, ^vas ordained to the priesthood in 1934, and 

, became a bishop in 1961. The Council Fathers elected Bishop McGrath to the Theological Commis­sion. Born in Ancon, the Canal Zone, the future bishop entered Notre Dame as a layman, graduating in 1945. He was ordained in 1949 and later received 
•"advanced degrees in theology in Paris and Rome. He was dean of the theo­logical faculty at the Catholic Univer­sity of Chile in Santiago when he was elevated to the liierarchy at the age of thirty-seven in 1961. 
Three of the prelates participating in the Second Vatican Council — Bishops Cousineau, Larose and Choquet — are members of the Holy Cross Fathers' Canadian Province. Bishop Cousineau, former Superior General of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross, had the honor of officially proposing to the Council that the name of Saint Joseph be included in the Canon of the Mass, a step al­

ready promulgated by the Holy Father. Council. A native of Merrill, Wis., 
Bishop Cousineau received an honorary Monsignor Doheny is a canon-law ex­
doctorate from Notre Dame in 1952. pert and a member of the Sacred 
Bishop Ganguly completes the list of Roman Rota, the highest pontifical tri­
Holy Cross representatives among the bunal of justice. He formerly taught 
hierarchy at the Ecumenical Council legal ethics at Notre Dame. Father Hes­
sessions. Bom in Hashnabad, East Paki­ton, who is from South Bend, Ind., and 
stan, he was ordained a diocesan priest also a specialist in canon law, is procu­
in 1946. He earned a master's degree rator general of the Congregation of 
and doctorate at Notre Dame in 1949 Holy Cross in Rome. He recently was 
and 1951 respectively. While in Amer­named chairman of the press panel 
ica, he decided to enter the Congrega­which briefs English-speaking corre­
tion of Holy Cross. After completing spondents covering the Council on the 
a year's novitiate, he returned to East day's proceedings. 
Pakistan, becoming Auxiliary Bishop of Rev. Mr. Langdon, a deacon who is 
Dacca in 1960. scheduled to be ordained to the priest­
Father Lalande, elected Superior hood in February, is one of a group of 
General of the Congregation of Holy thirty-six student priests and seminari­
Cross last summer, was designated a ans responsible for recording the verba­
Council Father by the Vatican and is tim text of the Council sessions. Lang­
participating in the proceedings. A don, a 1959 Notre Dame graduate 
Canadian, Father Lalande is the supe­whose home is in Philadelphia, Pa., took 
rior of three thousand Holy Gross a summer course in Latin stenography, 
priests and Brothers serving on five especially devised for the Council, to 
continents. prepare himself for the unusual assign^ 
Monsignor Doheny and Father Hes­ment. All the Council proceedings are 
ton are serving as consultants to the in Latin. 
Other Alumni at the Second Vatican Council 
In addition to the twelve members of the Congregation of Holy Cross taking part in the deliberations of the Second Council of -the Vatican, nearly two dozen alumni and honorary- alumni are participants — including one layman. 
Listed by Archdiocese and Diocese, the alumni among the American hierarchy include: Archbishop Paul Hallinan, '32, LL.D., '62, of Atlanta; Richard Cardinal Gushing, LL.D., '48, of Boston; Bishop Bernard J. Shell, LL.D., '39, Auxiliary of Chicago; Bishop Loras T. Lane, '32, of Rockford, 111.; Archbishop Karl J. Alter, LL.D., '37, of Cincinnati; Bishop John K. Mussio, '25, LL.D., '49, of Steubenville, O.; Archbishop Urban J. Vehr, '27, of Denver; Bishop Allen J. Babcock, LL.D., '54, of Grand Rapids, Mich.: Bishop Russell J. McVinney, '39, of Providence, R. I.; Bishop Leo A. Pursley, LL.D., '51, of Fort AVayne-South Bend; James F, Cardinal Mclntyre, LL.D., '53, of Los Angeles; Bishop William P. O'Connor, LL.D., '44, of Madison, IVis.; Francis Cardinal Spellman, LL.D., '35, of New York; Bishop Fulton 
J. Sheen, LL.D., '41, Auxiliar>- of New York; Bishop William A. Scully, LL.D., '57, of Albany, N. Y.; Bishop George L. Leech, LL.D., '42, of Harrisburg, Pa.; Bishop John J. Wright, LL.D., '42, of Pittsburgh; Bishop Raymond G. Hunthausen, M.S., '53, of Helena, Mont.; Joseph Cardinal Ritter, LL.D., '50, of St. Louis; Bishop Thomas K. Gorman, LL.D., '56, of Dallas-Fort Worth: Bishop Bernard J. Topel, Ph.D., '38, of Spokane, Wash., and Archbishop Patrick A. O'Boyle, LLJD., '52, of Washington, D. C. 
Besides the far-flung Bishops of Holy Cross, there is at least one other overseas delegate: Bishop John E. Taylor, O.M.I., M.A., '35, recently consecrated Ordinary of all Sweden. 
And helping with news distribution at the Vatican is a layman, Hugh T. Mur­phy, '59, assistant to the chief of the English section in the Council's press office. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
HiStOriCdf Note (continued from page 2) 
structively, has been tlie network of Notre Dame Alumni Clubs, highlighted by the Annual Universal Notre Dame Night, begun by the Alumni Associa­tion in 1924, through which tlie stor)' of the whole University is brought an­nually to the Club communit)'. 
The contribution of Notre Dame men to sound thinking in the critical area of the relationship between reli­gion and citizenship is growing in significance as the Notre Dame Clubs promote the Annual Universal Com­munion Sunday, established through the example of the Notre Dame Club of New York City in 1938. 
The long line of new students has been in many instances influenced by alumni as far back as the Universit>''s first graduate. But over the years the Alumni Association has considered tiiis an appropriate activity, and the Alum­ni Office began the practice of having alumni represent the University at the increasing number of "college nights" and similar events in the high schools 
YOU CAN HELP 
NOTRE DAME 
BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­
ested in the University 
Advising N.D. Foundation OfEce if your company has a 'plan of giving" Informing University of your cor­
poration's 'areas of interest' 
Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i-e. paintings, equipment, books, etc) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance polic)' Listing names and addresses of Foun­
dations in your community 
UNivERsrrY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAHE, INDIANA 
throughout the countrj'. As an out­
growth of this program, the Director 
of Admissions, Rev. James E. Moran, 
C.S.C, now directs from the Admis­
sions Office a rapidly growing organized 
program of alumni committees for such 
high school programs, and has added 
the very vital area of alumni inter\'iews 
^\'ith individual applicants in their 
home community. The program has al­
ready resulted in a noticeable advance 
in the securing of the best qualified 
prospects for the Universit)''s freshman 
classes. 
Several important programs of gen­eral alumni interest are in process, as the result of study and experiment. 
Father Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, representing Father Hesburgh in visits to the Alumni Clubs, has been work­ing with the Alumni Office to develop workable programs to implement a broad alumni interest in some form of continuing education. No formula has as yet cr)'stallized, but progress is evi­dent. 
The Notre Dame Athletic Depart­ment is most anxious to adx'ance the fortunes of tlie teams in all sports by a more universal alumni interest in securing adequate material for tliese teams. Again, no formula has been determined, but the project has many good aspects to recommend its develop­ment. 
The public relations program of the Universit)', which is simply telling the whole Universit)' stor)' to the public, needs a great deal more development if tlie complete image of Notre Dame is to become familiar to all our fol­lowers. Our Alumni Clubs are the principal channels for effecting this, as the University itself determines its image. The now-sought Field Secretary will add greatly to this area. 
The work of maintaining an up-to­date mailing list of all alumni is a never-ending challenge. There is a pos­sibility that we may have a proposal to put the alumni records on the Uni­versit)' computer. The process is com­plicated, and must be studied, but as volume increases it may be a major item of progress in the near future. 

Class Reunions, day-to-day corre­spondence, undergraduate relations, faculty relations, and inter-alumni re­lations mth other institutions are all programs of increasing complexity. Your Alumni Secretar)' is ser\'ing this year as President of the American Alumni Council, a personal tribute and a tribute to Notre Dame. We are in­terviewing young men to provide a third man on the Alumni Office staff, to supplement your Alumni Secretar)' and John Laughlin, Managing Editor of the ALUMNUSJ itself a growing job as names and news continue to multi­ply. 
This is a ratiier summary highlight­ing of the Alumni Association in 1962­63, in spite of its length. The job is on the one hand a ver)' simple formula of trying to sustain a personal relation­ship between alumni themselves and between alumni and Notre Dame; and on the other, a bewildering and grow­ing complex of programs and details which are necessar)' to do this. 
The Alumni Board has been on top of these problems for many years. We look forward to continuing success and service on the basis of this too seldom spotlighted contribution to Notre Dame's advancement. 
James E. Armstrong, '25, Alumni Secretarv 
The appointment of James V. Gib­bons, '53, as assist­ant director of public relations at Notre Dame was announced January 20 by Rev. John 
E. Walsh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foun­dation. He had 
been assistant baseball and basketball coach at the University since 1956. 
Jim nill assist public relations direc­tor J. Arthur Haley in liaison work with various groups including parents of students and members of the Uni­versity's Associate Board of Lay Trus­tees, advisory councils and president's committees. He also will be assigned to special public relations projects. 
A native of Chicago, Jim served for two years in the Army after graduation and was basketball and baseball coach at Chicago's Mount Carmel High School during 1933-36. During the summers of 1960 and 1961 he was man­ager of. the Pittsburgh Pirates' farm club at Kingsport, Tcnn. He is mar­ried to the former Betty Ann McGinn of Jamaica, N.Y. They have two children, Nancy Marie and Brian James. 

10 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
the big bell arrived at Notre Dame. 
With its tremendous steel yoke, held by 
massive oak girders, the "St. Anthony" 
weighs 16,650 pounds. Its height is 7



MAN and the 
feet 2 inches and the diameter at the 


MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '41 
The Fremont Journal (of Fremont, 
Ohio) had this interesting article on 
August 26, 1859. "A correspondent of 
the Detroit Tribune, in describing the 
University of Notre Dame, at South 

Bend, Indiana, thus speaks of its won­
derful chimes. 

" 'The great curiosity of Notre Dame, however, is the chime bells imported from Paris in 1856. These bells are t\vent>'-three in number and are all sizes, and are perfectly attuned to each other. They are rung by means of machinery' attached to a large cylinder three feet and a half in diameter. This cylinder is precisely like that in a mu­sic box, and is perforated with little holes, into which are stuck iron pegs. ^Vhen the cylinder is turned these little pegs strike straps or pulleys attached to the hammers of the bells. The bells may be made to ring any tune you please, from the highest strains of Han­del and Mozart dowTi to the simplest air.' 
" 'The chiming of these bells is most novel and beautiful. Its effect is in­describable. The tones are clear and sweet, and when the whole number are in full flight it seems as if the music was coming down from the skies. They are rung every hour in the day, and on great occasions seven of the largest of them are rung in concert and then the whole atmosphere for miles around is filled with the music. I was credibly informed that this is the best chime of bells on the con­tinent, and that even in Paris they were considered an exquisite piece of art.'" 
This carillon, high in the spire of Sacred Heart Church, is the oldest carillon in North America. Just four­teen years after the University was founded these bells were imported from France. Getting these bells was a per­sonal project of the bearded Father 
Sorin. He was a great traveler and on one of his trips to France he went to the foundry of Bollee and Sons at LeMans. France was casting and in­stalling more carillons between 1850 and 1900 than the Low Countries. The 23 bells range in weight from fifteen pounds to eleven hundred pounds. I repeat . . . this carillon at Notre Dame was the first in North America. I quote from a book called Carillon by Arthur Bigelow. ". . . So it was that 23 bells by Bollee were in­stalled in 1856 in South Bend, Indiana. With two full octaves, chromatic except for the first two half tones (omitted in most instruments), the carillon of Notre Dame was the first in the coun­try. A true product of the continent, it is complete with automatic playing drum, and a few of its bells are hung to swing. . . . 
"Less than ten years later, the Bishop of Buffalo, a member of the French Congregation de la Mission, attended a •ser\'ice at Notre Dame. According to a report of the event, he was greatly impressed by the bells 'freely rung in full peal' and 'was so charmed with the harmony and rich sounds of the new bells . . . that he wished, before he left, to obtain an account of the various weights of the 23 bells com­posing the chime, the cost of the ivhole, and the residence of the founder in France with the firm determination to send him an order on his return to Buffalo for even a larger chime.' Con­sequently 43 bells from LeMans were installed in 1865 in the tower of St. Joseph's Cathedral, a carillon larger than the majority of those in the United States and Canada today." 
The big bell has a story all its own. The metal came from the copper mines of Michigan and was sent to LeMans, France. There, Ernest Bollee and Sons went to work and on May 31, 1866, 

Bells, Bells, Bells! (concluded) 
base is 6 feet 10}4 inches while the circumference of its sound bow is 22 feet. The cost was $7,886. Old Father Sorin helped to pay for this by having the names of the donors on raised letters on the waist of the bell. When the Church was consecrated on the oc­casion of the golden jubilee of Father Sorin's ordination in 1888, the bell was blessed by Bishop Maurice Burke of Cheyenne, Wyoming. 
The great bell was admitted to this country customs-free. This evoked criticism from certain Eastern news­papers, which were prompdy taken to task by the Scholastic of May 23, 1868, which gives these reasons: "The metal of which the bell is made is from this country, and the duties were paid on it before it was sent to France. It is the completion of a chime which was e-xempted from duties long ago. The importance of such things tends to foster the progress of art in this country. The big bell is an ornament to the country. There is not in the United States a single bell as large, and not one so well-made, or with a sweeter tone." 
From the ceremony of the blessing of bells comes this excerpt: "Grant that wheresoever this holy bell, thus washed, baptized and blessed, shall sound all deceits of Satan, all danger of whirl­wind, thunder and lightning, and tempests may be driven away . . . and the darts of the devil made to fly backward at the sound thereof." 
Popular belief of fervent folk at­tributes to consecrated bells the power to put out fires, to abate storms, hail and wind, to protect the community from lightning and pestilence. Many bells bear the inscription: "Frango fulgura." ("I break the lightning.") 
Bells are often credited with ringing themselves at critical times to give warning of impending peril. History relates that the bells of Lisbon chimed without ringers when St. Anthony of Padua went to his eternal reward. 
In Longfellow's "Golden L^end," the storm fiends are commanded by their bell master to destroy the Stras­bourg Cathedral bells. They fail and cry out: "All thy thunders are harmless! 
For these bells have been anointed 
And baptized with holy water; 
They defy our utmost power." 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 It 

LAST CALL FOR FLORIDA'S 
'IRISH INTERNATIONAL' MEET April 26 on Grand Bahama 
The Notre Dame Clubs of Fort Lauder­an outdoor island fish fr>- under wondrous dale and Palm Beach, Florida, have issued skies and dancing to intoxicating native a last call for their 1963 Convention. This music! Prizes will be given for the best will be the first time we go "international" calypso costume; limber up your limbo and for another Notre Dame "First" — a his-come prepared! 
tor>--making step that affords you that Con­Saturday some of the fellows and ga's vention dream come true. will go fishing in the best fishing grounds 
Date: April 26-27-28, of 1963. Place: in the tropics. Yes, there is golfing, tennis, West End, Grand Bahama, at the Jack Tar sailing and skin di%-ing. The gals won't want Hotel. Setting: The tranquil quiet of the to miss the duty-free shopping for linens, 
romantic British Bahamas in the .Atlantic — siveaters, French perfumes, English china, just a half hour off the shore of Florida. native straws, etc.. all reasonably priced. .'^fter a 30-minute (light over the Atlan­Saturday evening will be a big • one: tic, you will be welcomed at the airport cocktail hour, traditional Notre Dame ban­by the island spirits (in a glass), then quet, and awards to be made; then an eve­minute away by waiting taxi through the ning at the Turtle Walk night club to join native underbrush the welcoming committee the native entertainers in singing, dancing greets you in plush native surroundings with and lavish entertainment. bigger and better spirits to put you in the Sunday will feature Mass, breakfast, a mood for an island vacation with your farewell buffet luncheon served on the patio fellow conventioneers. of the hotel, then winging back to the 
•In your swim suit and your relaxing mainland. Make your 525 deposit reserva­
clothes you'll Join the crowd around the tions before .April 1 for 1963's wonderful fountain pool for a swim. For evening bring Notre Dame weekend — planned to be the your calypso-style hats and beach shirts for best vacation you ever had. One of the best 

BULLETIN 
$18 MILLION GOAL REACHED WITH PLEDGES, BOARD TOLD; HUNTER ELECTED PRESIDENT 
At a meeting on February 16, Acting President Fr. Edmund P. Joyce, C5.C., '37, an­nounced to the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association that $18,004,000 had been received by the Notre Dame Foundation in gifts and pledges, thus achieving the $18 million goal aimounced for the Challenge campaign of 1960-63, scheduled to close June 30. 
President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., attending a meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Gene\-a, cabled congratulations from Switzerland to the Board members representing the University's 34,000 alumni. 
Nearly two-thirds of the total has been received in cash, thus assuring a $6 million match­ing grant from the Ford Foundation's Special Program in Education for $12 million received by the University from other pri%-ate sources before the June 30 deadline. Efforts are still undem'ay to increase alumni participation over 80% in the closing months of the campaign. Alumni can already take pride in ha\-!ng pledged $6 million in the three-year period, twice as much as was predicted by professional consultants. 
The Alumni Board elected Oliver H. Himter III, '43, president of the Alumni Assn., succeeding Ambassador to Ghana William P. Alafaoney, Jr., '38. Senior resident agent of the FBI in New Castle, Pa., and a former AU-American two-miler, OUie was coached in track by Ambassador Mahoney, who now becomes honorary president. Elected vice-presidents were: Jack Dempsey, '49, of Philadelphia (Alumni Fund and Foundation); Pat Dougherty, '50, Minneapolis (Class Activities); and Bill Fallon, '37, New York (Club Activities). 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
parts is the price, only $100.00 per couple for transportation, accommodations, meals, extras. ($100 from West Palm Beach, $106 from Fort Lauderdale, $110 from Miami, and $130 from Tampa. $66 per couple if you furnish your own transportation.) 
For reservations and further informa­tion write: 
CONVENTION HEADQUARTERS 100 East Las Olas Boule>-ard Fort Lauderdale, Florida 
HOWARD V. PHALIN, '28, executive, vice-president of the Field Enterprises Edu­cational Corporation, Chicago, III., a mem­ber of the Advisory Council for the Liberal and Fine Arts at the University, was the subject of two happy announcements re­cently. Hb firm and a popular magazine acquired joint publication rights to the memoirs of the U.S. astronauts, and Howard announced a magnificent personal gift of $200,000 to Notre Dame for the huge marble "Saints and Scholars" mural on the 13-story Memorial Library. Howard has been associated with Field Enterprises since 1933 and became executive vice-president in 1953. Howie was vice-president of his class. He married E\-angeIine Peterson in the Log Chapel in 1931. For thirty-eight consecutive years he has been a member of the campus council of the Knights of Co­lumbus. Howie, whose home is in Winnetka, m., was a Navy lieutenant commander in the Pacific during World War II. He is a member of the Chicago Athletic Association 
and the Merchants and Manufacturers Club. 
forward into the second semester is en­couraging. On February 18, Adiai Steven­son, United States Ambassador to the United Nations, will be on campus to re­

Sl0t 

the Stud^^i 
By Frank Dicello, 

Secretary, Notre Dame Class of 1963 
It is certainly a sad state of affairs tvhen a campus as large as this cannot offer more to criticize. Here the first semester is but Utile more than half over and already all sources of excoriation are exhausted. 
IVhere is the scapegoat to be found? we cry, and we are told to turn to the Old Testament. Indeed a sorry state. Gone are the days of complaints and insidious re­marks. Think of the lack of conversation; consider the writers out of work. 
And where can we place the blame? The answer is everywhere. The food in the din­ing halls has improved; the library is near completion; Hamlet was a success; everyone seems happy in his hall; and the freshmen have neither revolted nor demoralized and left for home. The biggest offender is the football team. ]Vho would ever guess that Academic Excellence would allow such a comeback? 
T
HIS IS THE way in which the Decem­ber issue of the Leprechaun, the new campus humor magazine, described the past year. In many respects it is an accurate description, but it would be wrong to leave the impression that the student body is apathetic. As we begin 1963, I think the critical attitude of many has been re­placed with one of optimism and anticipa­tion. 
There are signs of progress cverrwhetc. The crowded conditions in the library, the book that is lost in the stacks, and the long lines to check out books, all seem less frustrating when one sees the new build­ing Hearing completion on Carticr Field. Al­so near completion are the new computing and radiation centers, both scheduled to open soon. 
In the field house too, there is a new look. Sparked by young sophomores and backed by experienced seniors, the Irish have defeated some of the nation's top teams. Sporting a ten win, three loss record to date, they show every sign of being able to bring a successful close not only to this season, but to those of future years. 
For the freshman the coming year will be one of decision. Under the new Fresh­man Year of Studies program introduced this year, an incoming student does not 
TUITION INCREASE 
On February 10 the University an­nounced a ^100 increase in tuition for undergraduates effective next Septem­ber. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president and treasurer, said the University is raising its under­graduate tuition to $1,300 for the 
1963-64 school year because of "con­tinually increasing educational costs." Tuition for graduate students and law students at Notre Dame will remain unchanged at $1,000 per year. Father Joyce said. He also indicated that board, room and laundry fees for on-campus students will be maintained at present levels established in 1952. 
enter a specific college until his sophomore year. An applicant e.\presses only a declara­tion of intent, stating what college he plans to enter. The programs of study of the different intents are as similar as possible. Then in May of his freshman year the student makes his final choice. By delaying his choice until this time it is believed that he will make a prudent choice based on a better knowledge of his abilities and a knowledge of what each college and pro­gram has to offer. 
On the other hand, for the seniors it is the long-awaited last semester. Their major activity of the past few months has been the completion of application forms for fellowships and for graduate, profes­sional and imsmcss schools. Already suc­cessful in these endeavors was Bob McNeil, top man in the .Arts and Letters College, who has been named a Rhodes Scholar. Many others have taken interviews through the University Placement Bureau, and are contemplating job offers. A complete re­view of the plans of the graduating seniors will be presented in this column next issue. 
For the e.\am-wear)- scholar, a look 

SIGNS OF SPRING: A NEW SEMESTER. WASHINGTON'S BIRTHDAY, MARDI GRAS, ETC. 
ceive the Senior Class Patriot of the Year award at the annual Washington Day Exer­cises. This award is given each year to a person who in the opinion of the Senior Class has, over an extended period of time, recognized and fulfilled, in the manner he deems best, his obligation to the American Community. Past winners of this award were J. Edgar Hoover, Bishop Fulton J. Sheen, General Curtis LeMay, Senator John 
F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy, Dr. Wem­her von Braun, Vice President Richard Nbion, Admiral Hyman Rickover, and Bob Hope. Ambassador Stevenson was chosen in a special election on October 17. Ac­cording to the Senior Class President, the award will be made for, "his great and enduring devotion to the cause of world peace and for his effectiveness in articulat­ing American policy and principles at the United Nations." 
Four days after Ambassador Stevenson's visit, the third largest college week end in the United States will begin. On February 22, the Mardi Gras Ball will be held in the North Dining Hall. Over seven hundred couples will dance to the music of Les and Larry Elgart. Saturday afternoon Louis .•\rmstrong will entertain at a concert in the field house. Then, on Saturday evening, the Mardi Gras Carnival will open in the new Stepan Center. The high light of the carni­val will be the raffle for a 1963 Cadillac. For each book of chances sold on the Cadillac, a student is given one chance in a special drawing for the student prize of a 1963 Corvette Sting Ray. The week end will officially close on Sunday morning with a Communion breakfast. Each year the Mardi Gras raises between thirty and forty thousand dollars which is distributed to the Student Scholarship Fund, the Student Government, The Charity Chest, and the Student Center Fund. 

During the month of March over one thousand parents will come to the campus for the Junior Class Parents-Son Week End. A rather recent innovation (this will be its eleventh year), the idea of the week end is to give parents an opportunity to familiarize themselves with the day to day life their sons lead at Notre Dame. They are encouraged to attend classes, visit the residence halls, eat in the University dining halls, and as far as possible, to live the life of a university student. Each college and ROTC unit holds a reception where parents may see various displays and meet with the deans and professors. The most popular event of the entire week end is the President's Dinner, which is held on Sat­urday evening. There, Father Hcsburgh's talk, followed by a program from the Glee Club, brings an end to a very busy day. The week end comes to an official close as parents and their sons attend Mass Sun­day morning in Sacred Heart Church. As any senior will tell you, this is one of the finest week ends of his four years at Notre Dame. 
New facilities, a winning team. Patriot of the Year, classes, Mardi Gras, Parent Week End, an eye toward June — this is the combination of old and new that marks the second semester, 1963. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 13 
able to resume part of his duties as pastor of St. Mary's Church, West Quincy, Mass. Say a few quickies for his complete recovery and for THOMAS J. FLYNN, SR., father of our treasurer, Tom, *35. Mr. Flynn passed awny on December 2 1962 
Clubs —TIM TOOMEV, '30, Pres. 
Alaska 
What is probably the most nortlicrly Notre Dame Alumni Club in the world was recently or­ganized at Ancliorage, Alaska, by REV. JOHN A. O'BRIEN, Ph.D., research professor of thcoIog>% author-tn-residencc at tlie University. Fatlicr O'Brien gave the kej-nolc address, "Sources of Our Christian Faith," at the United Churchmen Laymen Conference, comprising many of the lead­ing l3>-mcn of the various Protestant CImrchcs of Alaska. 
Tlie invitation fitted in nicely with the spirit of llie ecumenical movement and Bishop Dermot OTIanagan of Juneau encouraged Father to accept the invitation in the interest of increasing good will and understanding among members of difTerent faiths. 
While there. Father O'Brien lookwi up tlie Xotrc Dame alumni in .\Iaska and arranged a. lunclieon meeting at the Hotel Windward. .At the meeting a Notre Dame chapter was organized, and JOHN 
S. HELLENTHAL, '35, a former member of the Alaskan territorial legislature, was elected president; DANIEL A. MOORE, JR.. treasurer; and HUGH 
G. U'ADE, secretary-. At the meeting Mr. Jack R. Simpson, president of the United Churchmen Lay­men Conference, was made an honorary member, and a pair of gold cuff links with the Notre Dame monogram was presented to him in recognition of his work for good will and understanding among members of all religious faiths in Alaska. 
Among tliosc in attendance were DANIEL A. MOORE, JR., B.S. '55; JOHN S. HELLE.\THAL, '35, LL.B. '40; HUGH G. {Jerr>) WADE, A.B. '56; FATHER O'BRIEN, LL.D. '59; MICHAEL 
H. WADE, B.B..\. '61; JACK R. SLMPSON; DR. JOHN B. GOEDECKE, B.S. '56; CHARLES A. BLOMFIELD, B.Arch. '49: and PAUL T. (Terry) LAMB, Ph.B. '60. 

Balrimore 
Tlic Baltimore Notre Dame Club Mass and Com­munion Breakfast featured Mass on Sunday, De^ cember 9, 1962, at 9 o'clock in the Cathedral of Mary Our Queen, and Breakfast following Mass a: BERNIE LEE's Pcnn Hotel, Towson, Md. The speaker, REV. CLARE J. O'DWYER, discussed ''Youth Today — HcU or Hca^-en." Arrangements for the event were made by ANTHONY M. MILETO. 
Next the Club met Januarj* 9th upstairs at BERNIE LEE's Pub. Tlic agenda included tiie Scholarship Ball, Universal N.D. Night, a Club directory, a stag smoker and Club dues. 
Finally, the annual Kotre Dame Sdiolarship Ball was held at Catonsville National Guard Armorj­on Saturday, February 2, 1963. Dancers were regaled from 9 to 1 with music by Gil Monroe and refreshments. 
Chairman for the ball was BILL KEARY. 

Berfcshires 
In September, we had our "Student)' Send-off Party" at the Oak & Spruce in South Lee, Massachusetts. An afternoon of golf, shufHeboard and a buffet supper was enjoyed by the alumni, fathers and the new students. 
ID October, a number of alumni participated with REV. JAMES MORAN, C.S.C., V.-P., Student Affairs, in college uights in Western Massachusetts. In addition to the Nights, the alumni, with Father Moran, visited eight prep scliools in the area. 
Our annual Corporate Communion and Breakfast was held on N.D. Sunday at the Jesuit No\-itiatc at Shadowbrook. Under the chairmanship of BOB FRULLA, '60, the largest tiunout of alumni and friends was on hand. 
Plans arc under way for a "Beer & Pretzeh Night" in late February and U.N.D, Night ia April. 
—F. M. LINEHAN, Prcs. 

Boston 
The following important events were scheduled on the spring activity calendar: regular meeting, Fdiruary 4, University Club; -Notre Dame-Boston 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
College Basketball Game, February 7; annual busi­
ness meeting, March 4, with election of officers 
and members to the Board of Directors; and Uni­
versal Notre Dame Night April 20, 1963, details 
to be announced. 
The Annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast held on December 3, 1962, was one of the finest sponsored by the Boston Club In recent years. Approximalcly 120 alumni, their sons and friends attended Holy Mass at the Cathedral and then went to Red Coach Grille for a fine break­fast. Chairman BARRY HYNES, '6t, did an out­standing job as organizer and had two excellent speakers on band in the persons o{ NII-S (Sticde) NELSON and FR. FR.\NK GARTL.\ND, C.S.C., '33, vocational director for Holy Cross Scminar>-, Nortli Easton, Mass., and formerly editor of The Catholic Boy when he was stationed at Notre Dame. Mr. Nelson was named to honorary- mem­bership in the Boston Club for his long and dis­tinguished career as outstanding citizen of the Commonwealth and for his dedication to the high­est ideals of sportsmanship in the field of inter­collegiate athletics. He was saluted as football's finest figure. President TI.M TOOMEY presented tlirec books on behalf of the Club to FalJicr Gart­land for the Holy Cross Seminary- Library. Other head table guests included HON. JOHN B. 
HYNES, head of the local Special Funds Division of the Notre Dame Foundation Drive and REV. RICHARD H. SULLI\^.AN, C.S.C., '34, President of Stonehill College. All the Board members did a bang up job as Barry's assistants. This wonder­ful affair is one that all Notre Dame men take an actix'e part In each year u-ithout too much pub­licity or sfcuH busting, MSGR. CORNELIUS DONOVAN, '09, our chaplain, who missed the Communion Breakfast because of illness, has been 
—LAST 

Buffalo 
FRANK FORGIONE was chairman of our No­

vember I3th meeting at the Parkway Inn, Niagara 
Falls. At the conclusion of our business meeting 
several films on the Caribbean area were shown 
by the Western New York representative of Pan 
American Alr^vays. .\ social hour ^vas enjoyed by 
more than forty club members. Director in charge 
u-as PAUL a\RROLL. 
FR. DINO J. LORENZENTFI, associate director 

for the Family Life Department of the Diocese 
of Buffalo was guest speaker at our annual Uni­
versal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, December 
2. Our 9 a.m. Moss was said in Blessed Sacrament Chapel adjoining St. Joseph's New Cathedral. Breakfast began at 10:15 a.m. in the main ball­room of the Hotel Lafayette in Buffalo. While parents listened to a fine talk by Father Loren­zentti, the children were entertained in another room of the hotel by a ver>' clever magician. As chairman, GENE O'CONNOR could not have se­lected a better location. The food, serx'icc, and table arrangements were excellent. This was Gene's last official act for the Notre Dame Club as a single man. . . . He is to be married on De­cember 29th. Congratulations, Gene! 
The PAUL BALLINGS were co-clialrmen for our .Annual Dance in the Statlcr Hilton on December 29. 
Our next meeting was scheduled to be held in Buffalo on January' 29. Jim Sulh\-an had not decided on the location at the time of this writing. 
The location of our March I2th meeting will be "somewhere" In Wllliamsville. TOM KELLY will pinpoint the meeting place. 
Our annual Retreat will again be held over the Passion Simday weekend March 29, 30 and 31. The Retreat House has not been decided upon. MAURICE QUINN is again chairman. 
—JAMES F. CASEY, '44, Secy. 
CALL-

Notre Dame Alumni Associafion European Pilgrimage — 1963 
APRIL 19-MAY 12 
Complete 2S-day tour, including round-trip air transportation from N.Y $940.00 
Round trip air transportation from N.Y. only 345.00 
For reservations, send $100 per person deposit before March 1, to: or For additional information contact immediately: 
Mr. James E. Armstrong 
Notre Dame Alumni Association Notre Dame, Indiana 
ALASKA — Charter meeting of alumni for the 180th and northernmost active NJ), Club, held at Anchorage in America's 49th (Notre Dame's 47th) state, had an ecumenical flavor as members, through organizer Rev. John A. O'Brien, bestowed monogram cuff links and honorary membership on Presbyterian Jack Simpson for his "significant contribution to the cause of Christian unity" as founder of the United Churchmen Laymen Conference, whose second annual session Father O'Brien addressed. Pictured by the Anchorage Times (l.-r.): Daniel A. Moore, Jr,, '55, treasurer; John S. Hellenthal, '35, president; Hugh G. (Jerry) Wade, *56, secretary; Fr. O'Brien; Michael H. Wade, '61; Mr. Simpson; Capt. John B. Goedecke, '56; Chas. Blomficid, '49; Lt. Terry Lamb, '60. 
Calumet Region 
Early in December tlie officers of the Notre Dome Club of the Calunict Region sent the membership their Holiday wishes along with tlie hope ttiat 1963 will be a happy and prosperous year. 
We were happy to announce on that occasion that for our annual Christmas Dinner Dance, through the efforts of Chairman BEN DANKO, wc would return to the Kiartiniquc Supper Club on Dec. 27. 
The management made arrangements to seat ns In their main dining room next to the bandstand. The evening consisted of a delicious prime rib of beef dinner with all the trimmings at 7 p.m.; dancing followed from 9 to 1 a.m. 
—DAVE OGREN, Pres. 

Central New Jersey 
Wednesday, Januar>- 16, 1963, and tlie Park Hotel in Plainfteld were time and place for the Central New Jersey Notre Dame Club to elect its officers for the coming year. The Nominations Committee, at this writing, had reviewed the entire club's membership and proposed the following slate: Pres­ident, TOM KENNEALLY. '30; Vice-President, BILL RICHARDSON, '55; Secretary, BILL MUL­LER, '55; Treasurer, JACK MULLEN, '55; and Board of Directors — BOB ARRIX, TONY GIUFFRE, DAN GRACE, WALTER KAV­ANAUGH. JOHN LISICKI, JACK MALONEY, BOB QUINN, and ED SADOWSKI. 
Nominations were left open for additional can­didates from the floor. The election results will follow. 
—DAN GRACE 

Chicago 
After the very successful Rockne Award Dinner in December, the club's officers are looking forward to continued membership participation for the first two events of 1963 — the Communion Breakfast In Lent and Universal Notre Dame Night this spring. 
FRANK O'DOWD, chalnnan of the Communion Breakfast, has made arrangements to have the Mass 
and breakfast at the new Notre Dame High School 
in Niles on March 10. 
FATHER HESBURGH will be the main speaker 
for U.N.D. Night April 30, which should make 
this affair a "must" on ever>'onc's schedule. Com­
plete details will be mailed to all members. Classes 
arc urged to rcscr%'e at least one table for this 
event. Tlic practice worked out well at the Rockne 
banquet, and wc hope that the formula will work 
again in the future. 
President JACK B.\RRY is still taking bows for the Rockne program, which attracted an overflow crowd to the grand ballroom of the Pick-Congress Hotel. JOE ZWERS was chairman of the event, which was a grand finale to the football season. Other committee members included: JOE ARCHI­BALD, program; JIM FERSTEL, film highlights; ED MIESKOWSKI and KEN SCHUSTER, enter­tainment. TOM CAREY, DAN SHANNON and DON SCHAEFER also helped Introduce the high scliool athletes to the alumni and guests. 

GEORGE RATTERMAN, former X.D. and Cleveland Brown quarterback, now a sheriff and sportscaster, was a big hit with his stories developed while *'riding the bench" as understudy to JOHN­NY LUJACK and OTTO GRAHAM. George complimented the Rockne nominees on their ac­complishments, and urged them to continue their athletic careers in college. Tlie serious moments in George's talk, however, were fe^tf and far bclueen. DAVE CONDON, Chicago Tribune col­umnist, was toastmastcr. 
Among those at the head tabic were: BILL PFEIFFER, DON HOGAN and ED HOERSTER of this year's \-arsity; JOHN JARDINE, coach of city champion Fenwick; DICK HACKE.\BURG, sports editor of the Sun-Timcs; FRED O'KEEFE, coach of Schurz, Public League champion; HUNK ANDERSON, former coach at N.D.; LEO FISH­ER, sports editor of Chicago's American; and BILL DAODIO, DON DOLL, BRAD LYNN, LOU STEPHENS, and DICK STANFEL, all of the coaching staff. 
Coach JOE KUHARICH stressed the importance of a college education to the Rockne nominees, and told them the competition afforded by football will help them In later life. Athletic Director MOOSE KRAUSE also spoke briefly, and told several new South Bend t^-pe jokes that were above our intellectual level. 
FR. EDMUND P. JOYCE. OS-C., executive vice-president, delivered the invocatioo and ex­plained that N.D. would continue to field a representative team. 
JOHNNY LATTNER, former NJ>. AU-American, presented the Rockne trophies to the winner*— Phil Sunderland of Loyola in the Catholic league and Bob Gibson of Lane Tech in the PvhMc League. Sunderland was an all-state guard, vice-president of his class, and a scholar with a 953 average. Gibson ^vas an all-state fullback and is a member of the National Honor Society. 
Jim Di Lullo of Fcnwldt and Tony Loukos of Chicago Vocational were runners-up. The follow­ing boys were nominated for the Rockne award on the basis of football ability, scholarship and leader­ship: 
Austin, Jim Agin; Bogan, Jerry Carbonari; Brother Rice, Tom Omicienski; Crane, Alvin Arrington; De La Salle, Mike Corbett: De Paul Academy, Larry Selander; Dunbar Vocational, Cory Mc­Laughlin: Englewood, Stephen Christmas; Farragut, Ozzle Herron; Fenger, John Nichols; Foreman, John Boutzarelos; Gage Park, Henry Melody; Gor^ don Tech, Casimir Banaszek; Harper, Joseph Kleck­auskas; Harrison, Moreno Bulleri; Holy Trinity, Ed­ward Lezza; Immaculate Conception, John DriscoII; Jolict Catholic, Ray Matcsevac; Kelly. Warren Scjud; Kelvyn Park, JeflT Kupeso; Lake View, Thomas Priola; LIndblom, John Yerkovich; Marian Catholic High, Joseph W. Bijak; Marion Central Catholic, Edward Crowley. 
Marmion Military Academy, Greg Barker; Men­del Catholic, Patrick Durkin; Morgan Park, Richard Heercn; Mt. Carmel. Thomas Werner; Notre Dame of Nflcs, Thomas Frandsco; Parker, Dongas Jen­kins; Prosser Vocational, Theodore Moran; Roose­velt, Barry Glllick; St. Edward's of Elgin, John McGee; St. George, Charles Erlenbaugh; St. Igna­tius, Roger Lamont; I,co, Bill Conlon; St. Md, Thomas Poleski; St. Patrick, Jerome Hanrahan; St. Philip Basilica, Greg Adders; St. Procoptus, Charles Bremer; St. Rita, Thomas O'Grady; Schun, John Hill; Senn, Michael Spalding; South Shore, Richard Reed; Stelnmetz. Henry Wurtzbacher; Taft, Richard Coady; "Hlden Tech, George Gitcfao; Tuley, Caeser Gonzales; Weber Hi^h, Daniel Kamlcki; Wells, Howard Norrls; and WeodeD PhUKps, John Palmorc. 
Among those introduced at the dinner were: CHUCK COMISKEY, TERRY BRENNAN, JACK ELDER, MAX BURNELL. JUDGE NORM BARRY, ELlklER ANGSMAN, LEN SKOGLUND, MARIO TONELLl, CHUCK SWEENEY. BOX AVIGHTKIN, HUGH DEVORE. BERT METZGER, TOM CONNOLLY and TONY LAWLESS. 
Authentic neu-sreel pictures of Rockne were shown during the dinner, as were a series of beau­tiful color slides of the campus. 
CHUCK FALKENBERG, chairman of the gotf outing, reports that his activity was a financial success despite the rain. Procecfis will go Into the club's general operating ftmd and the scholarship fund. 
FRED GORE, membership chairman, reports the paid membership has reached 1,200. He expects the membership to be around the 1,500 mark when all points are heard from. The officers are cer­tainly very h^p y to see this response and we urge you to take an active interest in the club by at­tending functions and volunteering for committee work. 
Incidentally, ED FOX, chairman of the hl ^ school interview committee, al%vays can use an extra hand. This committee interviews each boy in the Chicago area who applies for admission to the University. This Is one of our most important committees, and it always can use another mem­ber. No experience necessary! You'll find it a most rewarding jc^, too. If you're interested, just call the Club office (An 3-6063), and the secretary will give you additional information. 
JIM JENNINGS, who attends many of the col­lege nights at local high schools as the UnlversitVi representative, also can use help on this important assignment. 
Afake plans now to attend the Comamniott Breakfast and UND Night! —PAUL FULLMER. '55, 2rid Vlcr-Pres. 
Columbus 

The fihn of the 1935 Ohio Sute-Notre Dame game was shown at the November 7 meeting <^ the Notre Dame Club of Columbus, Ohio. Seventy-five club members and friends attended the meeting held at the Columbus Athletic Club and stayed to view the film, thus giving Us the largest business meeting attendance we\e ever. had. 
On December 9 the Club observed the .custom 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Feh.-MaTch, 1963 15 
of annital N.D. Communion Breakfast mth Mass at St. Joseph's Cathedral followed by a family Commmiion breakfast at the Desert Inn, a fine restaurant operated by GUIDO ALEXANDER, '44. At the head tabic during the breakfast were JOHN FLENTZ, '51, chairman of the event; Club Pres­ident ROBERT J. KOSYDAR, '53; and Msgr. Thompson, Rector of the Josephenum Pontifical College in Worthington, Ohio. Msgr. Tliompson, our principal speaker, talked on Catholic education. In attendance with their families *%*erc Dr. TOM HUGHES, *38; TOM ROCHE, '39; MIKE HOFF­MAN, '55; AL RTTCHER, '51; JOHN MURPHY, '28; JOHN IGOE, '28; ED CANTWELL, '24; MIKE CANTWELL, '58; CHARLIE WEIL­BACHER, '41; ROGER ZOELLNER, '53; DICK KASBERG, '48; LEO KLETZLY, SR., '31; JOHN JOHNSON, '44; LARRY STEMBER, '57; ED BUSH, '54; JACK DILENSCHNEIDER, '53; and HAROLD "BUD" TRAP?, '58. Bud Trapp is one of the newest members of our alumni group here in Columbus, coming to us from the ROTC staff of Notre Dame and now coach of Rosar\" High School's \*arsity teams. 
On December 27, the Club held its annual 

alumni-studcnt Christmas Dance at the Grooksidc 
Coimtry Club. Because se\'cral of our alumni have 
passed the stage of the twist, JOHN JOHNSON, 
'44, chairman of this year's event, scheduled a 
dinner dance. Highly successful, the dance began 
with a dinner at approximately 7 p.m. and ended 
with the strains of the Victory March about 1 a.m. 
An unprecedented 94-coup1c attendance resulted 
from fine student cooperation on publicity and 
rcser\'ation. 
I would be remiss in my secretarial duties if 

I did not report that ROBERT J. KOSYDAR, '53, 
our president, in addition to his many other duties 
and demanding law practice, took time to organize 
the first "Red Mass," a Afass for lawj-ers, ever 
held in Columbus. The Red Mass was held thb 
past fall. 
—JACK DILENSCHNEIDER, 53, Sec>-. 

Dearborn 
The Club sponsored a bus trip to the Notre Dame-

Michigan State football game. Outside of the 
weather and the outcome of the game, a good 
time was had by all. Well, the food and drinks 
were excellent. 
A general meeting was held at the home of 

President DICK KING on October 26. Besides 
the usual liquid refreshments, popcorn was also 
served. This seems to indicate a possible break in 
the austerity program. 
At the December 7th meeting, the drawing was 

held for the raffle. Three Club members won 
prizes: TOM DORE, BIL DECRICK, and DON 
HICKS. Yours truly won the bottle. The January 11 
general meeting at the King home featured 
moWes of the Ball visit to Spain and plans for 
the first big event of iJie new year. 
The annual Dinner Party thus planned consisted 

of dancing and dining on prime ribs and all 
trimmings at the Botsford Inn Janu3r>' 26. Nomina­
tion meeting follows February 15. 
—GEORGE C. BALL, Seo'. 

Decdtur 
The Officers and Directors of iJie Notre Dame Club of Decatur. Illinois, 1963, as duly (?)- elected November 15, are: President, AMBROSE C. MORAN, JR., '46; Vice-President, JOHN F. FOY, '34; Treasurer, JE-IUIY McNAMARA, '60; Secretary, STEPHEN G. GRALIKER, '42; and Directors, JOSEPH DONOVAN, '55, NICHOLAS NEIERS, '58, and BERNARD A. MARTY, '37. 
With the exception of Mr. Marty these personages convened and set out the 1963 Calendar: Sat., March 16, St. Patrick's Day Party (possible dis­pensation), BERNARD MARTY, Chrm.; Thurs., April 25, Uni\xrsal Notre Dame Night, NICK NEIERS, Chrm.; Tues., June II, Golf Outing and 19th Hole Inning, RICH McDONALD ('56). Chrm.; • Thurs., Oct. 10, Annual Meeting. BUZZ MORAN, Chrm.; Sun., Dec. 8, Communion Break­fast, JOHN FOY, Chrm.; and Fourth Wednesday of Each Month Open Lunclieon—Elks Club. 
More anon. 
—STEPHEN G. GRALIKER, Secy. 

Denver 
We Were honored here in Denver with -the nomi­nation and ncar«Iection to the Alumni Board of Directon of CARL F. EIBERGER. < 
Carl's prime hobby is working for-Notre Dame. 
COLUMBUS —Columbus (Ohio) Club 
Dinner Dance Dec 27 at Brooksidc 
Country Club united student and alunmi 
leader couples (l.-r.: Campus Club President Don Rothcrman, '63, and date 

Patty Blackburn; Chairman John E. Johiuon and Mrs. Jolmson; Mrs. Robert J. Kosydar and Club President Kosydar, '53. 
He was our first prex>' to scr\"c two terms and has held all other club of&ccs. He is the assistant chairman of the Special Gifts Committee and Is the same for the Alumni Fund Drive Committee. He is now a director and for the second year chairman of the Scholarship Committee on which he served for years. He has talked at many of the area high schools as an unoflidai University representative and is most active in almnnt place­ment and help to those who want to go to Notre Dame. He has been head of all major committees and many in tlie same year like the scliolarship raffle, picnic, publicity, U.N.D. Night, 1100-miIc football trip, etc. He is originator of many new functions like the Discussion Club and had an 
alumni event every 6 or 7 weeks. Carl Eibcrger is a real Notre Dame man who desires to help the school which gave him his education and start in life. He has shovt'n this in his untiring work, devotion, gratitude, and help to N.D. Because of his many faceted alumni.work, he has come to know University policy and the administration. He is, thus, admirably suited as an alumni director. His only desire is -to promote Notre Dame and her alumni. We think .he should soon be given a second opportunity. Thank you for your votes. —BOB ZEIS, Pres. 
Detroit 
Our annual Communion Breakfast was held-on December 9, in conjunction with the Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday throughout the country. Mass was celebrated at Holy Trinity Church- and was followed by a scrumptious break­fast at which FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH was the guest speaker. The diairman of this affair was LOU BOSCO, '58, who was assisted by BOB BOGG, '57. t . . 
The very popular Christmas Party was once again held at-' the exclusive Carmen Tower Club on December 28. Chairman for tins affair %vas JACK MURRAY, '57. 
—JOHN C. MURRAY, Secy. 

Erie 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was observed in Erie on Sunday, December .9, and proved to be a highly successful affair. Mass was held at 9 a.m. at St. Peter's Cathedral and was followed by breakfast at the Kahkiva Club. PR. FRANCIS GALLAGHER, pastor of St. Judc's parish in Erie, was the main speaker. LEW SHIOLENO, '49,-was chairman and deser^'es much credit for the splendid affair that it was. 
At the Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday 
observance the Knute Rockne award was given by 
the club to Joseph "Tippy" Pohl of East High 
School in recognition of his having been selected 
as the outstanding football player in Erie County 
for the year 1962. Trophies were also given to out­
standing grsidern^ooX players of the Erie Parochial 
league. Recipients were Mark Kirkland of St. 
George School and Mike Biondi of Holy Rosary 
School. 
Among those in attendance at the affair were 
Mr. & ifrs. DAN O'BRIEN, "i&i Mr. & Mrs. 
TONY ZAMBROSKI, '52; Mr. & Mrs. ROBERT 
BARBER, '40; Mr. & Mrs. BILL GRANT, '45; 
Mr-& Mrs. JACK YOUNG, '51; Mr. & Mrs. 
LEO BRUGGER, '34; .Mr. & Mrs. LEO J. BRUG­
GER, JR., '61; .\fr. & Mrs. RICHARD T. Mc-
CORMICK, '55; Mr. & Mrs. JOHN J. Mc-
CORMICK, JR., '53; Mr. & Mrs. HANK ANGEL­
OTTI; Mr. & Mrs. HOOT SCULLY; Mr. & Mrs. 
TLMOTHY McCORMiCK; Mr. & Mrs. JOHN J. 
McCORMICK, SR., ED KERN, '56; MIKE Mc-
CORlklICK, '61; BOB WINSCHEL, '51; JOSEPH 
BARBER, '36; Mr. & Mrs. JIM DAVYER, '37, 
and BUD WINSCHEL, '51. 
Congratulations to JI.M EHRMAN, '61, who received his M.S. in Electrical Engineering in January*. Jim's brother Jcrr>' will graduate from Notre Dame in June. DICK DALEY, '53, expected to be in Erie over the Christmas holidays. BILL GRANT, '45, is enjoying the insurance business. CHUCK DEGER, '35, back quite often from his work in Warren, O., mentions that he ran into JOHN WALSH, '57, in Warren. RICH McCORMICK, '55, his wife and his cousin MIKE McCORMICK, '61, enjoyed the Notre Dame-Gannon basketball game in South Bend in February. Mike has been taking a little time off from his beer company duties this winter to coacli a grade-school basketball team and from the results he looks like he could be another JOHN JORDAN. 

DON CRIQUI, '62, back in civilian life after a short jaunt in the Air Force, is continuing his sports announcing duties at radio station WWYN. JIM SCHAAF, '59, and his fiancee, Julie Brock­meier, spent the Christmas Holidays in Erie. Jim and Julie are planning to be married in Kansas City next fall. JOE BARBER, '36, seems to be enjoying his County Solicitor position. LEO J. BRUGGER, JR., '61, enjoying married life very much, is now associated with the Bruggcr Funeral Homes after finishing mortuar>- school in September. Club president TONY ZAMBROSKI, '52, enthused about three of his football linemen (Jim Koch, Tom Schneider and Frank LeibcJ) who are N.D. football prospects. All three are on Tony's wrestling team this winter at Cathedral Prep. 
BOB WINSCHEL, '51, is now with the federal government. LARRY STADLER, *28, enthused about the early play of the Notre Dame basketball -team this season. FATHER JOE HIPP, '49, studies at the University of Chicago. HOOT SCULLY is one nonalumnus who seems to be really enjoying the Notre Dame Club functions. The first of Hoot and Betty Jane's five sets of twins will be ready for college next year. 
Club officers are moving ahead now wUh plans for the annual election meeting to be held in February or March and with Universal Notre Dame Night plans. 
—JOHN J. McCOR.\HCK, JR., '53, Secy. 

Fort Lxiuderdale 
IRISH GO "INTERNATIONAL" IN .\PRIL Some of the most unusual and outstanding plans ever made by our alumni are rapidly taking shape as the Notre Dame Clubs of Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach, Florida, prepare to host the 1963 
N.D. Convention, this year in the fabulous Bahama Islands on April 26, 27 and 28. 
With recent word from MOOSE KRAUSE and his charming wife, Elise, that they will attend the entire convention, * this affair promises to be one of the _ most enjoyable and distinctly different celebrations of Universal Notre Dame Nicht ever held. 
The Fort Lauderdale Alumni originated the State Convention eight years ago and, ^vith the coopera­tion of the Notre Dame Club of Palm Beach, have seen it grow into a most successful annual affair of national scope. And this year the drama and atmosphere. of a foreign, tropical island arc added, as the exciting Jack Tar Grand Bahama Club, at West End, Grand Bahama Island, Bahamas, 
becomes the setting !or the largest and best con­vention yet held: "International" fishing, golf and tennis trophies will be awarded, and badminton, swimming; shuffleboard, bowling and skeet shooting 
16 Notre Dame Alumnusy Feb.-Mafch, 1963 
BOSTON — Among many notables at the Universal Notre Dame Communion Breakfast last December 9 at Boston's Red Coach Grille were (from left): Rev. Frank Gartland, C.$.C., vocational director, Holy Cross Seminary, North Easton, Mass.; Barry Hyncs, *61, general chairman; Hon. Nik (Swede) Nelson, principal speaker, beloved former football coach at Harvard; and Timothy J. Toomcy, '30, Boston Club president. 
wili be available to all convention dclcgatci and 
their wives. Balmy skies, blue seas and waving 
palms—all the glor>- of the tropics—will add to the 
enjoj'mcnt and memory of this eventful weekend. 
Delegates, with their wives, from all dubs in 
the country arc inw'led and expected to attend, 
and they will fly from Florida cities via Mackcy 
Airlines. .MI events, including Universal Notre 
Dame Night banquet and cocktail party, outdoor 
fish fry, lodging, meals and round-trip air fares 
for two arc only $100.00 from West Palm Beach, 
$106.00 from Fort Lauderdale, $110.00 from Miami 
and $130.50 from Tampa. Rcser\'ations are required 
and may be made by contacting the Notre Dame 
Convention Committee, 100 East Las Otas Blvd., 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, prior to April 1st. 
—FRANK L. McGINN, Pres. 
Golden Circle 
We have a fair number of alumni in this area but distances involved frequently preclude any concentrated activity. Recently, However, we de­cided to make an elTort to get together and obscr\'c Universal Communion Sunday. It was not possible for us to observe it on the designated date—December 9. A representative group of alumni gathered at the Pcnnliills Country' Club in Bradford for a Communion breakfast on Sunday, December 16, 1962. This breakfast followed ten o'clock Mass at St. Bernard's Church in Bradford. The Mass was celebrated by the REV. JOHN DANISZEW­SKL Father Dan, who is the new headmaster of the new Bradford Central Christian High School, u'as the speaker at the Communion breakfast. Father Daniszewski received a master's degree from Notre Dame so that he afforded us with a campus background. He gave a brief but most interesting talk on the Ecumenical Council. 
—JAMES F. McVAY, Pres. 
Indianapolis 
A social highlight of the club's calendar was the occasion of the third annual fall dance held Saturday, October 20. Arrangements for this year's dance were again handled by aging bachelor MICHAEL FOX ('55), who reports 106 couples attended. 
The big story among alumni in Indianapolis is the recent ovenvhclming success of the club's benefit performance of "Holiday on Ice" held Wednesday, November 8. A crowd of over 6,000 persons attended the show which was staged for the club's Student Scliolarshtp Fund. Co-Chairman 
F. QUINN ('42) and LEO BARNHORST ('49) capably guided the Jai^c committee through weeks of energetic ticket selling, resulting in a packed house at the State Fairgrounds Coliseum. 
Corporate Communion Sunday observance was postponed one week to Sunday, December 16, to permit cltxb members to hear a Hrsthand account of the deliberations of the recently adjourned first session of the Ecumenical Council. Featured 
speakers at the breakfast following Mass at the 
SS. Peter and Paul Cathedral were ARCHBISHOP 
PAUL C. SCHULTE and REV. RAYMOND 
BOSLAR, editor of the Indianapolis Archdiocesan 
newspaper Criterion and recent official observer at 
the Council mcet'ms. Their comments and obsen-a­
tions of the deliberations were heard by a large 
Communion breakfast turnout. DR. JOSEPH 
GORMLEY ('49) ser\-ed as chairman of this year's 
breakfast. 
BILL .McGOU'AN ('57) and R. V. IV'ELCH 
('50) headed a committee of eight members who 
made phone solicitations of alumni who had not 
yet participated in the N.D. Foundation Challenge 
program. Tlieir efforts resulted in an astounding 
95% participation from alumni in the Indianapolis 
area. 
BILL SAHM ('51) was recently named to the Executive Council of the National CYO at their annual convention in Washington, D.C. Bill's "little" brother, 6' 9'/j" WALT SAH.M, has helped his Irish \-arsity teammates get their basketball season off to a flying start. He gave his many home-town fans plenty to cheer about, even in defeat, as the Irish bowed to Butler in Indianapolis on December 22. 
—CHARLES G. WAGNER, '54, Sec>-. 
Jersey Shore 
The University of Notre Dame Club of the Jersey Shore set final plans at the Elks Lodge, Asbury Park, in November for its participation In Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, Dec. 9. 
The members heard Mass in a body at Holy Spirit Church, Second Ave., at 9 a.m. and at­tended a Communion Breakfast immediately follow­ing at the Empress Motel, Ocean Ave. TTie event was a family affair with wives, children, other relatives and friends of the members invited. 
The Mass was celebrated by the club's chaplain, REV. PAUL J. KANE, Glendola. Arrangements were made by the Communion Breakfast committee: JOSEPH P. RYAN, '51, Bclford; CHARLES J. KELLER, *54, Sea Girt; JAMES F. SILVER, 'S4, .Vsbury Park; and DR. WALTER F. JUDGE, '49, Spring Lake. 
In its other business in November, the Club elected a Board of Directors consisting of six members: WILLIAM BRUNO, '37, Asbury Park; GEORGE J. MCDONNELL, '29, Freehold; VIN­CENT J. McCUE, '30, Shrewsbury; PHILIP J. MUNNING , '48. Red Bank; THOKUS GIL­MARTIN, '51, Red Bank; and JLM SILVER. 
GEORGE A. BARISCILLO, president, announced that the Holy Name Society of St. James Churcli, Red Bank, planned to sponsor a concert by the Notre Dame Glee Club in early February. He offered the Club's assistance for the e\-ent and appointed PHIL MUNNING and ^VILHAM BIRMINGHAM, *53, both of Red Bank, to act as liaison between the Club and the Holy Name Society. 
The business meeting concluded xvith short ad­dresses by FATHER KANE and JOHN DRUZE, former assistant football coach and head scout at Notre Dame under FRANK LEAHY, and a 15­mlnute movie about present-day life at the Uni­versity. 
Kansas City 
In celebration of Universal Communion Sunday, 
the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City held Its 
Mass and breakfast at St. Theresa's College, 
December 9, 1962. With the co-chairmen LARRY 
LEROY and ED O'MALLEY, there were sixty 
people In attendance for this family function. 
FATHER JACOB SMITH, C.S.C., '50, was the 
chaplain for the event. OTTO SCHMID, '09, 
Kansas City's oldest alumnus, was present with 
his wife Lorctta. BILL UNGASHICK, with his 
wife Mary and their six children, comprised the 
largest family In attendance. A contribution toward 
their building fund was presented by President JIM 
HIGGINS to the Sisters of St. Theresa's College. 
The Club has planned a costume party for 
February 16, 1963. Under the co-chalrmanship of 
Joyce and HAROLD SOLOMON we expect a big 
gang to dress up and take part in the festivities. 
The party will be held at the Terrace Auditorium 
in the IVard Parku-ay Shopping Center. There will 
be door prizes, refreshments, entertainment, etc 
Sounds like a lot of fun. We'll have a full report 
on it next time. 
—CARL B. ERFFMEYER, '5!, Secy. 
Kentucky 
On September 10, 1962, the Notre Dame Club 
of Kentucky held a meeting to which all students 
and their fathers were invited. A representative 
of Southern Bell Telephone and Telegnqih Company 
gave a very interesting talk on the new Tebtar 
Satellite system. JIM HENNESSY was in charge 
of this program, which was well received by both 
alumni and students. 
The traditional Notre Dame Communion Supper was held on December 8, 1962, and was v%'ell at­tended by Notre Dame men and their families. DR. JOHN FORD, of BcUarmine College, gave a ver>' interesting talk on the role of the layman in modem society. LEO BROWN, JR., handled the arrangements for this function as he has done for the past several years. 
Our Club was afforded a special event on Saturday, December 29, 1962, when Notre Dame played Kentucky In a traditional basketball game held in Louisville. The game was a sellout and turned out to be a real battle. On the preceding night the annual Christmas dance was held in the Crystal Ballroom of the Brown Hotel in Louisville, Kentucky. 
ROG HUTER originated a novel idea to raise funds for our scholarship fund. The Club sold shares on an all expense paid trip to New York for the N.F.L. championship game played by the Packers and Giants on December 30, 1962. This undertaking received solid support, and a great deal of credit should be given Rog for his efforts on behalf of the scholarship fund. 
—RICK REMMERS, Secy. 
La Crosse 
At our Communion Breakfast on Sunday, De­cember 9, the following men were elected as officers of the Notre Dame Club of La Crosse for the coming vean DONALD SIEGER, president; DU­ANE HAMMES, vice-president; WILLIAM ROTH, secretary; and JAMES BEHME, treasurer. Don Sieger succeeds the outgoing president, J. WIL­LIAM MURPHY. 
The Communion Breakfast brought to a close a vcr>* successful spiritual, social, and financial year for the Notre Dame Club of La Crosse. .\mong the many activities held during the past year were a Christmas Formal, three Communloa breakfasts, a Holy Hour, a family picnic, and a steak fry. 
The outstanding event of the year UTU a bus trip to the Notre Dame-Wisconsin football game at Madison, Wis. One hundred alumni and friends of the University traveled by bus to Madison for the football game. This fine contingent of Notre Dame backers cheered loud and long for a victory for the fighting Irish. Disappointment In defeat was mellowed by the most enjoy^le time that everyone had. 
The Notre Dame Club of La Crosse u looking forward to having another successful year in 1963. Among the events currently being planned Is a Mardi Gras dance to be held the Saturday before Ash Wednesday. News of this and other events will be reported In the ALUMNUS. 
—WILUAM G. ROTH, Secy. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Marck, 1963 17 
Los Angeles 
A number of acliviiics brought to a close the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles' fall program. On November 3rd a dinner and cocktail party was held at the house of GENE CALHOUN, '33, and his gracious wife Veronica. Among those in at­tendance were HOSEA ALEXANDER, '62; ED SCHNURR, *62; Hon. AL SCOTT, '22; TOM CREHAN. *57; JIM O'REELEY, '51; BOB KEL­LEY, 'M; AL \\*ELZENBACH, '29; and JIM GILLIS, *51. One of the highlights of the evening was the announcement that MORT GOOD^L\N, '30, tlie club's past president and 1961 Man of the Year, had been nominated for the position of National Director of the Alumni Association. Need­less to say, all in attendance were delighted that Mort should be >o honored and pledged their support in elTccting his election. 
During the Notre Damc-Southcrn California fcwt­ball game weekend, a number of c*cnts took place highlighted by the Communion Breakfast and llie Prc-Gamc Rally. On Friday night, November 30, the Rally was held in the Grand Ballroom of the Biltmorc Hotel and the better part of a Uiousand alumni and friends were m attendance. Representing the Univcreity were REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame, REV. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation, and ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, director of athletic-. Tlie University of Southern California was represented by athletic director Jess Hill. Entertainment was provided by sudi stars as Pat O'Brien, Jack Haley, The Lennon Sisters, Joe Finney and George Riley. As in previous years, the rally was one of the high­lights of the Southern California sports scene. Two of the reasons for its success arc the untiring efforts of its co-chairmen, GENE CALHOUN, '33. and JUDGE CARBERRY, '35. 
Saturday, December 1, the Notre Dame team played No. I ranked Southern California before over 81,000 people at the Los Angeles Coliseum. In attendance were many Notre Dame alumni from all over the West. Among the alumni clubs rep­resented were San Diego, San Francisco, Sacra­mento, Seattle, Phocnbt, New Mexico, Denver, Hawaii, Oregon, Dallas, to name a few. 
On Sunday, December 2, the combined Notre Dame Clubs of Southern California held ihcir Annual Communion Breakfast. Mass was celebrated at Loyola Chapel by REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., for the Notre Dame Family. It was an extremely gratifying sight to see the entire chapel filled with the Notre Dame team, alumni and their families. Breakfast was held immediately after Mass at the Chapman Park Hotel with an attend­ance of several hundred. Speakers were FR. JOYCE, REV. A. J. HEINZER, C.S.C.. '41. director of the Family Theater of the Air, and Coach LOU "RED" STEPHENS. Also representing the University were the REV. LEN COLLINS, dean of students, and EDWARD L. RECKER, '48, assistant director of the Notre Dame Foundation. Fr. Joyce spoke of the University as it is today, and its immediate goals; Fr. Heinzer reviewed the work of FR. PATRICK PEYTON, C.S.C., and the Family Theater, while also announcing a joint venture of the Family Tlieater and Alumni Clubs in this area whereby programs related to Catholic Action will be implemented into club activities through the Family Theater. In addition to introducing the team. Coach Stephens presented the first annual Kotre Dame Club of Los Angeles Trophy to the most outstanding Notre Dame player of the Notre Dame-Southern California game. The recipient for this year's game was center and game captain ED HOERSTER. 
On December 5 the ofHcia] awarding of the Sotre Dame-Southem California game trophy was made at the Southern California Football Awards Ban­quet by Club President BOB GERVAIS, '55, to 
S. C. Coach John McKay. While it is an under­statement to say that the task was an unenWabIc one, the fact that the National Championship Award and the Coacli of tlie Year Award *vere made the same night from the same stage made the situation that much less compromising. 

Other actiWties during this period included a Christmas dinner-dance for the alumni and stu­drjits at the Holly^vood Palladium, where the music was supplied by Lawrence Wclk and his orchestra. Congratulations arc in order for MIKE WOODS, '62, and BOB KELLEV, '34, for a job ^vell done. On January 8 the Club's Annual Sports Dinner was held under the chairmanship of ED FOX, '55, and LEO TURGEON, '42. Since this affair is held in conjunction with the NFL Pro-Bowl game, many of the guests and speakers were associated with that affair. 
—BOB GERVAIS, '55, Pres. 
LOS ANGELES — Ctmter Ed Hocrster 
{at left) received a Most Valuable PJayer trophy from line coach Red Stephens wiih obvious approval from Club President Bob Gen-ais, '55, as Southern California N.O. Clubbers breakfasted after December's U.S.C. game. 
Maine 
In Maine we are rather a hibernating group at this time of the year, so perhaps a greeting would be in order for our snowbound officers: WILLIAM MICHAEL SALTER, president: J. PAUL SCULLY, vice-president; JOSEPH DOYLE, treasurer; area veeps ANTHONY SILVA and NORMAN C. TREMBLEY. 
—RAY GEIGER, Sccx-. 
Miami 
Came Januar>' 3rd at the Urmey Hotel and the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami held its first meeting of tlie Ne\v Year, at which time was duly elected the new slate of officers for the coming vear as follows: President, RAY POPP; 1st V.P., BOB PROBST; 2nd V.P., JACK OVNANE; Secte­tar>', GEORGE HERO; Treasurer, GENE KU­BICKI. Newly elected Directors arc BILL Mc-SHASE for 3-yr. term; CHARLIE MAHER and JOHN THORNTON for 2-vr. term; GEORGE KENNARD and BERNIE LYONS for 1-yr. terms. Holdover directors are JIM SXtlTH and MIKE ZOROVICH, and Mike was elected as chairman of the Board of Directors for 1963. 
Amongst the faithful present were I. I. PROBST, JERRY HOLLAND, BOB REILLY, TOM HILS, JEROME JOHN FITZGERALD, JOHN WEI­SAND, BARNEY GOOD, FRED JONES, JERRY OUELLETTE, ED LYONS, guest M. W. ROWE and a special guest and chaplain of the affair, REV. FR. JAMES LEAH. 
Included in the outgoing Treasurer Hero's re­port was the fact that our reserve Scholarship Fund and accounts payable on scholarship loans had been turned over to the University to apply as the Miami Club's contribution to the Notre Dame $18,000,000.00 Challenge Program. 
Also discussed at the meeting was the Interna­tional Convention of Alumni for *63 at West End, Bahamas, on April 26th thru 28th .. . a package* 
deal complete cost per couple of $110-00 from 
Miami and $106.00 from Ft. Lauderdale including air transportation. If you are interested, make reservations with the Conv. Hdqs., 100 E. Las Olas Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
In retrospect we must mention the grand Annual Communion Breakfast held December 9th with Mass at Gcsu Church, which celebrated its 40th birthday that day, and breakfast Top o' The Columbus. .. . It was a well-attended event; Prexy McShane had GEORGE KENNARD chair the affair. Aye Aye Probst, the Grande Patriarch, was the M.C., and the featured speaker was our GEORGE COURY, who made a most interesting discussion on his trip behind the Iron Curtain into Russia, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Denmark, Ger­many, etc. 
—CHAS. XfAHER, Dir. 
MtlwcHikee 
FATHER JOHN WALSH was the speaker for our 
shindig on December 9th. We had an txccllent 
turnout of about 75, including MOON MULUNS 
and JOHN McHALE with his entire brood. Father 
Walsh's remarks were excellent and the whole 
affair was very well received. 
—R. L. GROGAN. 
Mohawk Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of the Mohawk Valley celebrated Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day on December 2, 1962. Mass was attended at St. John's Church, Utica, and the Communion Breakfast followed at the Empire Room of the Hotel Utica. The event was a large success ^vith 50 people in attendance. Chairman for the break­fast was BOB SCH.AFER. Speaker for the event was HON. JOHN J. WALSH, Judge of Oneida Count>', who gave an inspirational address on "Notre Dame Our Mother." 
The event was made a family affair this year 
by inriting the wives and children. Tlie largest 
Notre Dame family present was that of Dr. and 
Mrs. DONALD A. GAVAGAN, '42, with five of 
their children. Tribute was paid to FRANCIS 
HACKETT, 'II, our senior alumnus in attendance. 
Another item of interest concerns the recent 
additions to our Notre Dame families. A daughter 
was bom to Mr. and Mrs. M. ALBERT JO^VlD 
on Dec. 5 and a daughter to Mr. and Mrs. LEE J. 
OSTER, also on December 5, 1962. 
—LEE OSTER, Secy. 
New Jersey 
The role of the educated Catholic layman in com­batting "accidental bigotr>-" was stressed by Gov. RICHARD J. HUGHES, a prindpal speaker at the annual Communion breakfast of the New Jerse>' alumni of Notre Dame. 
More than 800 alumni and their families attended 
the breakfast Drc. 9 at the Tammv Brook Coun­
try Club, Creskill, N.J. 
Gov. Hughes said that the value of the edu­cated Catholic laity is that the knowledgeable Catholic la)-man can explain the Church to others and avoid accidental bigotr>'. This will lead to "greater understanding," the governor said. 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., compli­mented the alumni for their participation in a $20,000,000 expansion program which includes a $10,000,000 Iibrar>-. 
JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., former Newark cit>­commissioner. Port of New York Authority com­missioner, and a trustee of the University, gave the welcome. 
New Mexico 
Thirty-four members attended Mass and Com­munion Dec 16 at the Newman Center on the University of New Mexico campus in Albuquerque. Breakfast followed at a local restaurant. Fr. Robert Bums, a young Dominican on the Newman Cen­ter staff, was the guest speaker and gave an en­lightening speed) on the Ecumenical Council. Fol­lowing the speecli, the Club held an informal meeting discussing such things as the scliolarship fund and the possibility of a monthly club neu-s-Ictter. Thanks to the planning of chairman .ART BROWN, and the assistance of GARY CONNELL, the breakfast was considered quite successful. 
Plans for the future include a combination pot­luck supper and Mardi Gras dance to be held in February. It is hoped that an event such as this will become an annual pre-Lenten affair. A raffle is planned in conjunction with this dance in order to obtain a larger scliolarship fund. 
—DENNIS L. MANG.AN, '60, Sco'. 
New York 
BOB SCHRAMM'S Westchester Division opened the fall social program with a gay Sunday after­noon tea dance at the Leawood Country Club on October 28. 
MOOSE KRAUSE was guest speaker at the N.Y. City Touchdown Club's annual Rocknc luncheon on November I, and RIP MILLER u-as one of the guests of honor. 
TIERNEY O'ROURKE was again chairman of the Club's annual train trip to the Navy game on November 3. The Club was as successftd as the team 
— with no vacant seats and a good time had by all. 

18 Kotre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
COMMUNION BREAKFAST of the Philadelphia Club, last December 9 at Holy Trinity Church HaM, featured I. to r.: Clifford E. Prodehl, Foundation Committee; Rev. Jos, 
N. Gross, pastor, Holy Trinity; Barton B. Johnson, president, Phila. Club; John P. Dempsey, National Alumni Board; Rev. James A. Moran, C.S.C., Conununion Breakfast speaker; Thomas G- McFarland, Breakfast Chairman; Rev. Thomas C. Duffy, C.S.C, 
Club chaplain. 
On November 9 BILL GARTRELL's Long Island Division shook the rafters of Rockville Centre's "Old Barn" with their annual fall Square Dance. GEORGE WINKLER, III, was in charge of this enjoyable affair. 
Over 175 persons attended the Club's annual Communion Breakfast at the Waldorf-.-Vsloria on December 9, despite a hovering snowstorm. Chair­man BOB FINK had secured Father Robert I. Gannon, S.J., as guest speaker, and his super­abundant humor, coupled with his personal remin­iscences of the past four Popes and the growth of the Church's image during their reigns, turned the breakfast into a sparkling affair. GEORGE SOKOL­SKY, the nationally known columnist, was a guest of honor on the dais, as he has been for years past, and the Club u-as saddened to hear of his death two days later. 
—GEORGE P. KRUG, '35, Secy. 
Northern California 
Alumni from the San Francisco area chapters resen'cd t«o flights to Los Angeles T^ovcmbcr 30 for the Rally at the Biltmore Hotel that night and the Southern California game at the Colbeum December 1. Tliey stayed ox'er for the Mass cele­brated by FATHER JOYCE at Loyola Prep and the Notre Dame Communion Breakfast at the Chapman Park Hotel on December 2. Chapters were requested to hold their own obser\"ances of Universal N.D. Communion Sunday on Dec. 9. 
Thursday, Dec. 27, was a big night in the Bay Area. Tlic annual East-West Shrine Game Dinner was held at the Leopard to honor star quarterback DARYLE LAMONICA, with Palo Alto Times sports editor Walt Gamage in charge. Tlic same night saw the annual Christmas Dance at the San Francisco Airport's Hilton Inn, %vith students, alumni, and friends invited. 
—BILL McGOW/\N, Pres. JOHN GR.\NX Vicc-Pres. 
Omaha 
Tlie Omaha Club obser\'ed Mass and Communion at St. Cecilia's Cathedral on December 9, 1962, in honor of Our Lady. After Mass the members and their sons gathered at the "Fireside" restaurant for breakfast. A program devoted to the children included HERB MILLAND, basketball coach at Crelghton University, and DON LEAHY, football coach at Crejghton Prep. The boys were inspired to participate in local athletics as well as academic actiWtics. 

Other activities not previoiisly reported include a golf outing and picnic at the pri\'ate hideout of MONSIGNOR WEGNER, Supervisor of Boys Town. Msgr. Wegner was honored by the Omalia Club as "Man of the Year." Many of the students and new entrants to Notre Dame were the guests of the Club at the picnic. 
.-\ recent xisitor to Omalia was JIM ARM­
STRONG who attended the regional meeting of 
college alumni secretaries. Jim is president of the 
organization. The ofHcers of the Omaha Club 
managed to corner Jim for a short time out of his 
busy schedule. 

Earlier last summer we were honored bv a visit from FATHER T. J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., asso­ciate director, Notre Dainc Fund. .\n informal barbecue outing was held at the home of BILL SEIDLER, where those fine Nebraska steaks were charcoal broiled to perfection. 
—J. E. CHRISTEN, Secy. 
Peoria 

We had an excellent U.N.D. Communion Sun­day witli about 78 in attendance Dec. 9th. Oi course, we had a fair number of children in this crowd, but even so. it was a lot better than we HAD been able to do in recent years. We had our breakfast immediately following a most impres­sive recited and sung Mass at Sacrc Cocur Church in Crcve Cocur, Illinois. .-Vs speaker we had OWEN COYLE of the Peoria Register, local president of the Catholic Interracial Council. Everybody was ver>' content, and I am sure that Our Golden Lady smiled down on our committee's grand efforts! 
Our next venture is a two-busload trip to the Notre Dame-Bradlcy game at the Chicago Stadium in Marcli. About 80 will go •— and it is assured to be a sellout well in advance. We'll follow this with a St. Patrick's Day Dance at the Peoria Country Club on March I7ih — and then, of course. Universal Notre Dame Night. 
—CHUCK PERRIN, Pres. 
Philadelphia 

This time w*e traveled to Historic Washington Square for the Annual Communion Mass and Breakfast, family style, on December 9. Plenty of free parking on Spruce Street, and the adjoining streets. No need to move the car until the entire program had been completed. Without the neces­sity to leave the Mass area to have breakfast, the program moved more quickly than in the past. 
The emphasb being on family style Mass, we 
Notre 
arranged a catered affair at the School Hall of 
Holy Trinity Church, to keep costs flown, and 
to allow a smaller charge for "small fry." 

The winner of the Notre Dame Club Trophy, his parents, coach and athletic director were present for the award. 
FATHER JAMES A. MORAN, C.S.C., began iiis visit to the city, where he expects to hold meetings in the area high schools, by addressing our breakfast. JERRY McFARLAND was general chairman. 
At a recent meeting, the following men were elected officers for 1963: President. J.AMES P. LEY­DON, '49; Vice-Pres., ^VILLIAM A. WHITESIDE, JR., '51; Secretary. THOM.AS C. McGRATH, '48; and Treasurer, GERARD A. VOir, *53. 
—JAMES P. LEYDON 
Pittsburgh 

The annual Christmas Dance was definitely set for December 2arh at the Pittsburgh Field Club as this was written. BILL MEYER, '54, and FR.ANK CONTE, '56, the co-chairmen, had done a fine job of carr>-ing through the plans and from all indica­tions a gala evening was in store for all. Brad Hunt and his Orchestra were to provide the music, and the atmosphere was conducive to the unlimber* ing of metatarsals frozen during our recent deep freeze. 
FR. THOMAS O'DONNELL, along with JIM COONEY and JI.M FRfCK, representatives of the Foundation, were in town Tuesday, December 12, and Wednesday, the 13th, to promote a final drive. DON BEBENEK , our president, arranged for a number of alumni to meet with them for dinner both nights at the Penn Sheraton Hotel. LEO O'DONNELL did a commendable job in making the dinner arrangements. All who attended were glad to hear that the present goal of the Foundation is in sight, and that brighter prospects for the coming year arc in the ofling. 
After dinner, the group retired to the offices of JACK SHEEDY, '24, and DO.N BEBENEK to telephone some of our more forgetful alumni. All felt the response was encouraging. 
Our annual retreat was scheduled for the week­end of January 4 at St. Paul's Retreat House in Pittsburgh. GEORGE KINGSLEY took over for JOHN BRILEY this year, as John has been recovering from a recent illness. George was assisted in making the reserv-ations by JOE TOT­TEN, GEORGE BROWN, and JACK .MONTE­VERDE. There's no better way to start the new year, and it was felt that the Club members would acknowledge this fact by a substantial attendance. 
—MICHAEL J. BOYLE, Secy. 
Rochester 

The Notre Dame Club's Annual Family Com­munion Breakfast was held December 9 at McQuaid Jesuit High School after 9 o'clock Mass. BILL O'CONNELL and LEE WESLEY were in charge. 
The Christmas season brouglit the annual Christ­mas Dance, a dinner dance December 29 at the University Club of Rochester. Among those working with the chairman couple, Mr. and Mrs. GENE YURGEALITIS, were Mr. and Mrs. PETE KRESS, .\fr. and -Mrs. JOHN BURKE, Mr. and Mrs. JOE KENNY. 
Rome 

In this Eternal City of transients, especially with the mass of departing bishops and busy local alumni, our X-D. Communion celebration failed to jell this year. 
Paradoxical as it may seem to statcsiders, here on the scene of the Ecumenical Council Itself it was impossible to manage a gathering for corporate Communion. Potentially, we had hundreds of bishops to choose from for a talk and a Mass celebrant. Actually, the bishops, including eight of our Holy Cross bishops, and six U.S. bishops, all 
N.D. alumni, were up to their ears and quite bushed. And to say any more about the Council here right now seemed anticlimactic. All N.D. and CS.C. personnel in Rome were involved In some fashion in the closing of the Council session. 
But during the months of the Council we were pleased to host a host of bishops at the N.D. Hospitality Center: In addition to our own Holy Cross bishops, the episcopal roll reads. Bishops Eustace Smith, O.F.M., Beirut, Lebanon; Leo Smith, Buffalo, N.Y.; George Hammes, Superior, Wis.; Francis J. McSorley, O.M.I., Philippines; Russell J. McVinney, Providence, R.I.; Jerome Pechillo, T.O.R., Paraguay; Benedict Cocsia, O.F.M., Brazil; Thomas Manning, O.FJkf., BolivU; 
Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-March, 1963 19 
Joseph McGee and William Hart of Scotland; 
James Ryan, O.F.M., Brazil; Vincent Waters, 
Raleigh, N.C.; Rembcrt Kowalski, O.F.M., China; 
Herold Henr^-, S.S.C., Korea; James Connolley, 
Fall River, Mass.; Hugh Donahue, Stockton, Cal.; 
Leo Maher, Santa Rosa, Cal.; Francis Furey, 
Philadelphia; James Schuck, O.F.M., Brazil; 
George Biskup, Dubuque, Iowa; and Joseph Brunini, 
Natchez, Miss. When the U.S. bishops arrived in 
October they were all still talking about the World 
Series, and when they departed in December, they 
were all discussing the X.D. football fivc-and-five 
season. 
The Door Count: FR. WILFRED MENARD, 
C.S.C., FRANK O'LAUGHLLN, '38, and LEN 
SCOGLUN0, JR., of Chicago; FR. R0N.4LD 
TRIPPLCS.C, '57; parenU of JOHN MOYNAH.VJ, 
'57, La Grange, III.; Dorothy and ROXIY HAM.MES, 
donors of the N.D. Hammcs Bookstore: Mr- and 
Mrs. PAUL DUNCAN; parenU of TOM H.\YES, 
'55; parents of JOHN 0'HALLOR.\N, '61; the 
Murphys signing for son EDWARD MURPHY III, 
'63, nephew JOSEPH SHIELY III, '63, JOSEPH 
If, '37, JAMES, '39, and VINCE-VF, '•12; Mrs. 
Dorothy McCarthy, widow of the late Dean 
JAMES MCCARTH Y of the College of Commerce; 
FR. JOS. PRINOTTO, C.S.C., '54; CHARLES 
M.\RTIN, '59, Elizabeth, N.J.; BOB WILLIAMS, 
•39, Dallas, Tex.; parents of U'M. SOISSO.V III. '53. and cousins of HARRY SOISSON, '59: JIM FAYETTE, Burlington, Vt.; ALCUIN WIEDER­KEHR, '57, Altus, Ark.; LT. A.L. "TERSH" NORTON, '58, USN, Coblcskill, N.Y.; ENS. JOS HUTTON, '61, USN. Seaside Park. X.J.; LT. JOS SH-iVW, '59, USN, Bloomington, 111.; E.NS. JOHN KOVACS, '62, USN, Clifton, N.J.; former faculty member Mr. and Mrs. LOU BUCKLEY, '28, Forest Hill, N.Y.; Tuppcr Drane, signing for DOUGLAS DRANE, '62, and LANCE, '65; JACK HEARN, '37, Beverly Hills, Cal. 
New Romans: AL BAILEY, '51, of Hawthorne. N.J., joins the Rome Club as a commuter from Livomo, where he is teaching historv* at Camp Darby under tlic University of Maryland extension program. And we arc ttTiiting for FRANK TONINI, '56, to report in for initiation from his station in Milano with Celenc S.P.A. 
With Thanks: To the N.D. Ft. Lauderdale Club for sending tis their membetship directory. If any of you have such for your own club, xvc will wel­come them. NDcrs, when in Rome, often want to send a card to NDers of their club or class and do not have the address on them. 
N.D. Hospitality in Rome is always to the tune of open house every day, all day, from early until late. Write us at: Largo Brancaccio 82, or ring us at 730002 for a wee bit of home in Rome. 
—\TNCE McALOON, '34, Sec>-. 
Saginaw Valley 
The Saginaw Valley Notre Dame Club elected 
oiHcers ou Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­
day, December 9, 1962. 
The group, composed of Notre Dame graduates 
and former students, named GERALD E. CAR­
ROLL of Bay City president, succeeding WILLIAM 

C. HURLEV of Saginau-. LA^VRENCE A. SMITH was elected \'icc-prcsidcnt. Others elected: secretary', FRANCIS A. MARZOLF, Bav Citv; directors, ROBERT L. ROMAKER, Saginau, and JOHN J. McSHANE, Bay City. 
TTic election was part of a breakfast meeting at Bcrtrand's Restaurant, Bay City. Before that the Club took part in an annual Communion obscr^'ancc at St. Maria Goretti Church, Kawkawlin. 
St. Louis 
On December 9, 1962, the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis held its .A.nnual Family Communion Sun­day. The Mass was offered in the new cliapel of the St. Louis Priory School. TIic Notre Dame Glee Club was present and sang the Mass for us. Immediately following Mass a brunch \s'as held at the Carrie Blayney Restaurant. Aftcrxx-ards the Glee Club entertained us before Icanng to make a tape for the Christmas program to be shown on Sunday December 23rd on KSD-TV Channel 5. We wish to thank Glee Club Director D.\NIEL 
H. PEDTK E for their fine performance. 
Father Columba Carey Elwcs, O.S.B., the prior of the St. Louis Priory* School, spoke to us on the "Ecumenical Council." BOB McAULIFFE, '55, was chairman of this event and %vas ablv assisted by DON RATCHFORD, '50, CONTCIE LANE, '57, and JIM PUDLOWSKI, '54. Over 130 alumni, family members and guests attended making this the largest event of its type in our Club's history. 
PITTSBURGH — Shown planning decora­
tions for the 37th Annual Christmas 
Dance of the N.D. Club of Pittsburgh 
(from left), Mrs, Don Bcbenek, wife of 
the president, sits in on the deliberations 
of the co-chairmen, Mrs. William A. Meyer 
and Mrs. Frank F. Conte. 
Our Annual Christmas Dance vras held on Friday^ 
December 28, in the Chase Club of the Chase-Park 
Plaza Hotel. Music for dancing %%'as furnished by 
Jack Engler's fine orchestra. AUTT \VEIS, JR., 
'57, and MARK MALEY, '57, were the co-chairmen 
of the dance and had an excellent program. The 
dance was again a great success and was well 
attended by both alumni and students. 
Shortly after the first of the year the club will 
have distributed a new roster of its members, with 
each member receiving a copy. A general meeting 
was planned to discuss our spring program. Support 
of all our programs during the past year has been 
ver>' gratifying to the officers and directors of the 
club and we hope this enthusiastic response con­
tinues. Plans are being made to make Universal 
Notre Dame Night our finest yet. Our Club would 
also appreciate if any alumni moving into the St. 
Louis area would please contact their secretary* 
at YO. 5-0512 so that they can be placed on our 
mailing h'st. 
HERM KRIEGSHAUSER, '54, Sec>-. 
Salina 
The Salina Notre Dame Club Joined in the 
obscr\*ancc of Universal Notre Dame Communion 
Sunday on Sunday, December 18th, by attending in 
a body the 5 p.m. Mass at Sacred Heart Cathedral. 
The front rows of the Cathedral were rcser\xd for 
our group. Immediately following Mass wc had a 
dinner at the Mars Restaurant. Wc also invited 
all parents of Notre Dame men, past and present. 
Eacli year the Notre Dame Alumni Board recommends a theme or subject. This year it was the Ecumenical Council, its purposes and progress to date. .\s our speaker and guest we were very honored and pleased to have His ExccUeno", F. W. Frcking, Bishop of Salina. Bishop Freking is return­ing from Rome and the Council on Dec. 12. Tlicre were few Notre Dame Clubs as fortunate as ours to have sucJi an opportunity for firsthand infor­mation. We all are grateful for the time and support Bishop Frcking is gjWng the Salina Notre Dame Club. 
Chairman was treasurer AL SCHWARTZ, who deserves our congratulations for his induction into the Knights of St. Gregorj*. 
—JOHN BROWNE, Prcs. 
Spokane 
Annual Alumni Communion Sunday u-as obseni'ed by the Notre Dame Club of Spokane on December 2nd to avoid conflict with the monthly Communion Sunday of the Holy Name Socict^•. After Mass at 
the Cathedral of Our Lady of Lourdes, members, their wi\-es, older children and guests enjoyed breakfast at the Ridpath Hotel. The after-breakfast speaker, introduced by Vice-President DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '49, was Father Van F. Christoph, S.J., head of the Department of Sociology, Gonzaga University, who gave a very interesting and illumi­native talk on the Ecumenical Council. Club Pres­ident GARY MYERS, *59, presided and introduced the latest additions to the Club roster, ED MURPHY, '56. and GERRY BERGUM, '62, both of whom arc on the Gonzaga faculty. The follow­ing members participated in the obscr\*ance: GERRY BERGUM, '62; FRANK FLANNERY, '31; FRANK HAGENBARTH. '27; DR. CURRAN HIGGINS, '49; TOM LALLY. '06; JIM LYNCH, '40; DR. BOB MAHER. '35; ED MURPHY, 'QG: GARY KfYERS, '59; DR. JIM ROTCHFORD, '49; DICK ST. JOHN, '56; BERNIE SMYTH, '55; and JOE WALSH. '14. 
Plans were also made for the annual Holiday 
Party to be held December 27th at the home of a 
Club member. 
—JOE WALSH, '14, Secy.-Treas. 
Toledo 
The 4th day of Christmas, the niedic\'al- atmos­
phere of the Inverness Country* Club, and roasting 
chestnuts set the mood of our finest annual Christ­
mas Dance. JOHN CELUSTRA was chairman, and 
TOM AVELLY was co-chairman. DON HUMMER's 
publicity brought many friends of N.D. and other­
wise bus>- alumni. GEORGE KORHUMEL's in­
\itations were inriting. BOB KOPF handled reser­
vations. X)tx:or:itions were by NOEL BLANK. No 
one was turned away by FRANK GILHOOLEY 
of tickets, and URB GRADEL, SR., arranged for 
breakfast after the dance. JOHN COCHRAN, '23, 
lit the Yule Log. 
The Ciub took ad\-anta^c of the rarity of zn 
N.D. varsity team playing in the area, and as a group the members traveled to Bowling Green for the B.G.-N.D. basketball game. 
—DICK MERKEL, '56, Secy. 
Tri-CiHes 
On December 30tli under the co-chairmanship of 
EMMETT KEENAN and GEORGE VANDER­
VENNET, JR., the Tri-City Club bade adieu to 
1962 with a Holiday Dance in the Gold Room of 
the Hotel Blackhawk. 
On October 20th, 1962 we lost one of our 
outstanding men by the death of EDMUND 
MEAGHER, Class of 1921. The local club and the 
University had no bigger booster than Ed. 
December 9th N.D. Communion Sunday was held 
by the locals and one of the largest turnouts of 
people was on hand for this happy event. Our 
esteemed president was more than pleased. 
—JOHN S. HERR, '50, Secy. 
Utah 
Alumni of Utah, friends of Notre Dame and their wives met for cocktails and dinner at the University Club, Salt Lake City, on November 17, 1962, An excellent talk was delivered by Mon­signor Caffey, Post Chaplain, Fort Douglas, Utah. 
On December 9, members of the Club celebrated 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday at 
the Fort Douglas Chapel and later joined for 
breakfast at the OBcer's Club. 
—LEONARD J. DI GIACOMO, Vicc-Pres. 
Washington, D.C. 
In accordance with the provisions of the consti­tution, two Nominating Committees were selected, as folloxvs: CLINTON H. ^VATSON and ^VILLIAM MAY, chairmen; THOMAS L. McKEN'ITT, JOHN 
P. BRADDOCK, JAMES F. MARTEN, and COL. JOHN V. HINKEL, members. 
Committee members solicited any names mem­bers might suggest as candidates for any office or member of the Board of Governors. Members were also reminded of the privilege of voting for a write-in candidate. 
BILL MIDDENDORF, president of the Club, asked me to call to your attention that there was celebrated for all Club members a Mass at Holy Cross College, 4001 Harewood Road, N.E., in com­memoration of U.N.D. Communion Sunday on December 9, at 9:15 a.m. Breakfast ^\-as served in the refectory following Mass. The speaker for the occasion was Dr. Manuel Suarcz, Ph.D., and his topic was "Cuba After Castro." 
—JOSEPH L. FITZMAURICE 

20 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
An intallsctual Mrvice of th* Univenitr e{ Ndira Poma ior tha eonstqat enrichment of ihenUnds' of ifotre Dome's ctiretse fomilr 


thesibynTRilDITIOli 
\ from sublimity I to ridicule . 
A Short History of Education* 
Prehistoric Times 

IJTTLE IS known about higher education during the Stone Age, whidi is perhaps just as welL 
Because of a weakness in the liberal arts, the B.A. was not offered, and there was only the B.S., or Bachelor of Stones. Laboratory facilities were meager, owing to a lade of government contracts and support from private industry, but the stars were readily available, on dear 
,., nights, for those interested in astronomy. (Scholars, who ^ went around without much on, looked at the stars with '•' the naked eye.) 
Prehistoric students, being before history, failed to 
•i comprdiend the fundamaitals of the.subject, sudi as its ,' being divided into. Ancient, Medieval, and Modem. 
By Richard Armour^ 

There were no College Boards. This was fortunate, because without saw or plane, boards were rough. 
Nor were there any fraternities. The only dubs on the campus were those carried by liie students or, in self-defense, by members of the faculty. > 
, Alumni organizations were in their infancy, where some" of them have remained. The alumni secretary occupied a small cave, left behind when the director, of devdop­ment moved to a larger one. While waiting for contribu­tions to come in, he idly doodled on. the wall, completdy unaware that art critics would.someday mistake his draw­ings of certain members of the board of trustees for dino­saurs smd saber-toothed tigers. 
The Alumni Quarterly came out every quart^ of a. century, and was as eagerly awaited as it is today. 
The Classical Period , 
is ANCIENT Athens ^everyone knew Gredc, and in ^ ­dent Rome everyone knew Latin, even small children — which those who have taken Elementary Greek ^r Ele­mentary Latin will find hard to bdieve. Universities wish­ing to teadi a language whidi had little practical use~ 
* Copyright 1962 by Editorial Projects for Education, Inc. All rights reserved. 
but was good for mental discipline could have offered 
English if they had thought of it ^ 
Buildings were all in the classical style, and what looked like genuine marble was genuine marbla How­ever, philosophy .classes were sometimes held on the steps, the students being so eager to learn that thiey couldn't wait to get inside. 
"The Peripatetic School was a college where the pro­fessors kept moving from town to town, closely followed by students and creditors. Sometimes lectures were held in the Groves of Academe, where students could munch apples and olives and occasionally cast EUI anxious eye at birds in the branches overhead. 
Under the Caesars, taxation became so burdensome that Komans in the upper brackets foimd they might as wdl give money to their Alma Mater instead of letting the State have it Thus it wais that crowds often gathered along the Appian Way to applaud a spirited chariot race between the chairman of the fimds drive and the tJix collector, each trying to get to a good prospect first. 
The word "donor" comes from the Latin dotiare, to give, and is not to be confused with dunare, to dun, though it frequently is. 
When a prominent alumnus was thrown to the lions, customary procedure in the alumni office was to observe a moment of silence, broken only by the sound of munch­ing. Then the secretary, wrapping his toga a little more tii^tly around him, solemnly declared, "Well, we might as weU take him off the cultivation list" 
The Middle Ages 
IN THE PEBIOD known as the Dark Ages, or nighthood, everyone was in the dark. Higher education survived only because of, illuminated manuscripts, which were dis­covered during a routine binning of a library. It is in­teresting to reconstruct a typical classroom scene: a 
-group of dedicated students clustered around .a glowing piece of parchmoit, listening to a lecture in Advanced Monasticism, a ten-year course. If some found it hard to concentrate, it was because they were dreaming about quitting before exams and going off on a crusade. 
Some left even sooner, before the end of the lecture, having spied a beautiful damsel being pursued by a dragon who had designs on her. Damsds, who were invariably in distress, wrought havoc on a young man's grade-point average. ._ 
Members of the, faculty were better off than-previously, because they wore coats of armor. Fully accoutered, and with their visors down, they could summon up enough courage to go into the president's office and ask for a promotion even though they had not published a thing. 
At this time the alumni council became, more aggres­sive in its fund drives, using such persuasive devices as the thumbscrew, the knout, the rack, and the wheel. A wealthy alumnus would usually donate generously if a sufficient number of alumni, armed with pikestaffs and halberds, could cross his moat and stonn lus castle walls. A few could be counted on to survive the rain of stones, arrows, and molten lead.~Such a group of alumni, known as "the committee," was customarily conducted to the castle by a troubador, who led in the singing of the Alma Mater Song the while. -
Ziaiio 
C=^. 

The Renaissance 
DniUNG THE Renaissance, imiversities sprang up all over Europe. You could go to bed at night, with not a university around, and "the next morning there would be two universities right down the street, each with a faculty, student body, campanile, and need for additional endowment 
The first universitiK were in Italy, where Dante was required reading. Some students said his "Paradise" and "Piu-gatory" were as hard as "HelL" Boccaccio was not required but was read anyhow, and in the original Italian, so mudi being lost in translation. Other institutions soon followed, such as Heiddberg, where a popular elective was Duelling 103a,b, usuaDy taken concurrently with First Aid, and the Sorbbnne, which never seemed to catch on with tourists as mudi as the Eiffel Tower, the 
/ ­

A SHORT HISTORY OF EDUCATION 
By Richard Armour 

Richard Armour is the author of 22 books of humor and satire^ including the recent Golf Is a Four-Letter Word. In addition to his books, he has written more than 5,000 pieces of light verse and prose for magazines in the United States and Great Britain. He is, as well, professor of English and dean of the facul­ty at Scripps College in Claremont, California. 
' Commissioned last spring while Professor Armour was on leave in Japan, ^ "A Short History of Educa­tion" is, according to the author, "probably the first piece of the sort vmtten in an unheated Zen Buddhist tempW while the writer was clad "in long under­icear, heaviest suit, overcoat, sweater, and goose pimples." Since he had no access to any but Japanese books, he reports the history "had to be out of my head, which is what I ammost of the time, anyhow." 
Readers who like his approach to the history of education will also enjoy It All Started with Eve, It 
All Started with Columbus, It All Started with Europa, It All Started with Marx, Twisted Tales from Shake­speare, and The Classics Reclassified. 
Professor Armour has a PhJ>. from Harvard. He Tias taught not only at Scripps College, where he has been on the faculty siiwe 19^5, but also at the Uni­versity of Texas, Northwestern University, WeUs Col­lege, University of Freiburg, and University of Hawaii. 
Foh"es Bergere, and Napoleon's Tomb. In England there W21S Oxford, where, by curious coincidence, all of the yoimg instructors were named Don. There was also Cam­bridge. 
The important thing about the Renaissance, which was 
. a time of awakening (even in the "classroom), was educa­tion of the Whole Man. Previously such vital parts as the elbows and ear lobes had been neglected. The graduate of a luuversity W£is supposed, above all, to be a Gtentle­man. This meant that he should know such things as archery, falconry, and fencing (subjects now largely relegated to Physical Education and given only one-half, credit per semester), as well as, in the senior year, how to use a knife emd fork. 
During the Renaissance, the works of Homer, Virgil, and other classical writers were rediscovered, much to the disappointment of students. 
Alumni officials concentrated their efforts on seciu:ing a patron, someone rich like Lorenzo de' Medici, someone clever like Machiavelli, or (if they wished to^get rid of a troublesome member of the administration) someone really useful like Lucrezia Borgia. 
Colonial America ~ s, . 
THE FIRST universities iii^ America were founded by the Puritans. This explains the strict regulations about Late Hours, Compulsoiy Chapel,\ No Liquor on the Campus, and 0£f-Limits to .Underdassmen which stiU exist at many institutions. . 
Some crafts were taught, but witchcraft was an extra.­curricular activity. Witch-btiming, on the other hand, v ^ ' the seventeenth century equivalent of-hanging a football. coach in effigy at the end of a bad season. Thou ^ de­plored, it was passed off by the authorities as attributable to "youthful exuberance." -
Harvsird set the example for naming colleges after donors. WiUiam and Mary, though making agood tiy, failed to start a trend for using first names. It was more successful, however, in starting Phi Beta Kappa, a fra­ternity which permitted no rough stuff in its initiations. At first the Phi Beta Kappa key jyas worn on.the key ring, but the practice went out with the discovoy of the watch chain and vest. 
During the Colonial Period, alumni officials limited their fund-raising activities to those times.when ah alinn­nus was securely fastened, hands and legs, in the stodcs. In this position he was completely helpless and gave generously, or could be frisked. 
Revolutionary America 
HIGHER EDUCATION came to a virtual standstill during' the Revolution — every able-bodied male having enlisted for the duration. Since the EOTC was not yet established, college men were forced to have other qualifications for a commission, such as money. _ , -~ 
General George Washington was given an honorary degree by Harvard, and this helped see him through the difficult winter at Valley Forg&Since he gave no com­mencement address, it is, assumed tiiat-he made a sub­stantial contribution to the building fund. Then again, mindful of the reputation he had gained through Fars(Ui 
. Weems's' spreading' of the cherry tree story, he may have established a chair in Ethics. 
Unlike the situation during World War I, when col­
, leges and universities abandoned the teaching of German in-order to humiliate the Kaiser, the Colonists waged the Revolutionary War successfully without prohibiting the teaching of English. They did, however, force students to 
^ substitute such good old American words.as "suspenders" for; "braces," and themes were marked down when the 
•spelling "tyre" was used for "tire" and "colour" for "color." 
The alumni publication, variously called the Alumni Bulletin, the Alumni Quarterly, and the Alumni News­letter, was probably invented at this time by Benjamin Frstnklin, who invented almost everjrthing else, including bifocals and kites. The first such publication was probably Poor Alumnus' AVmanac, full of such homely sayings as "E^ly to bed and early to rise makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise enough to write his Alma Mater into hiswilL" 
Contemporary America 

IN THE nineteenth century, denominational colleges wMe founded in all parts of the coimtry, especially Ohio. In the smaller of these colleges, money was mostiy given in small' denominations. A few colleges were not named after John Wesley. 
State universities came into being at about the same time, and were tax supported. Every taxpayer was there­fore a donor, but without getting his name on a building or being invited to dinner by the president The tax­payer, Jn short, was in the same class as the Anonymous Giver, but not because he asked that his name be with­hdd. 
About the middle of the nineteenth century, women weare admitted to college. This was done (1) to relieve men of having to take women's parts in dramatic produc­tions, (2) to provide cheer leaders with shapelier legs, and (3) to recruit membars for the Women's Glee Club, which was not prospering. Women students came to be known as co-eds, meaning that they went along with a man's education, and he could study and date siihul­taneously. It was not realized, when they were admitted, that women would get most of the high marks, especially from professors who graded on curves. 
In the twentieth centuiy, important strides were made, sudi as the distinction which developed' between educa­tion and Education. Teachers came to be trained in what were at first called Normal Schools. With the detection of certain abnormalities, the name was changed to Teachers Colleges. 
John Dewey introduced Progressive Education, wherer by students quickly knew more than their teachers and told them so. Robert Hutchins turned the University of Chicago upside down, thereby necessitating a new building program. At St John's College everyone studied the Great Books, which were more economical because they did not come out each year in a revised edition. Educational television, gave college professors an excuse for owning a television set,, which they had previously maintained would destroy the reading habit. This made it possible for them to watch Westerns and old movies without losing status. -• .-^ ' 
Of recent years, an increasing nuinber of students spend their junior year abroad. This- enables them to get a glimpse of professors who have been away for several years on Fulbrights and'Guggenheims. 
Student government has grown apace, students now not only governing themselves but giving valuable sug­gestions, in the form of ultimatums, to the presidents and deans. In wide use is the Honor System, which makes the professor leave the room during an examination be­cause he is not to be trusted. 
Along with these improvements in education.hcts come a subtie change in the American alumnus. No longer interested only in the record of his college's football team, he is likely to appear at his dass reunion full of such penetrating questions as "Why is the tuition higher than it was in 1934?" "Is it true that 85% of the mem­bers of the faculty are Communists?" and "How can I get my, son (or daughter) in?" 
Alumni magazines have kept pace with such advance­ments. The writing has improved, thanks to schools of journalism, until there is excitement and suspense even in the obituary column. Expression has reached such a high point bf-originality that a request for funds may appear, at first reading, to be a gift offer. 
However, if pictorial content continues to increase, it will not be necessary for alumni to know how to read. 
This cannot .come too sooni ' ^ 
\ 

of Western Eun^ie and America, and Jncamifrig historic leaders long gone to dust, endeared }um. to thousands of students and in^ircd not a few of them with a lasting love and interest for the 'essence of the past.' " 
SAMUEL J. GUERRA, '06, died in Aguasc*­

Classes Hcntes, Mexico, on ^iovembtr 6, ]96i2, according t » 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Mus Duanc Shirley Fredettc and RICHARD PERRIN EASLEY, '56. MUs Nancy Slcpath Quinn and PETER STUR­TEVANX '56. Miss Joan Dolores Hatnn and 1V7LLIAM FRAN­CIS GAUL, '57. Miss Barbara Jeanne Schwab and LOUIS ED­WARD LaGRAND, '58. Miss Catherine Genevieve SuUii'an and KEVIN RICHARD HALLIGAN, '59. Miss Eileen Anne Gannon and JOSEPH THOMAS 
KENNEY, '59. MUs Julie Brockmeicr and JIM SCHAAF, "59. Miss Patricia Ann Hopcus and STEPHEN E. 
SWEENEY, '59. Miss Susan Kay Bailey and PATRICK F. KANE, '60. JHss Holly Ann Hamilton and FRANK A. VURASEK, JR., '61. Miss Lorctto Margaret Reuwcr and JOHN M. BECKMAN, '62. Miss Susan Mary Stowell and MICHAEL F. FrrZPATRICK, '62. 
MARRIAGES 

Mrs. Loretta Rohr and J. PATRICK CANNY, '28, Cleveland, C , Sept. 19, 1962. 
Miss Kathleen Ann Tanse^- and JOSEPH GERARD DONLON, '49, South Bend, Ind., No­vember 24. 
Miss Kathleen Anne Lobo and JOHN BERNARD MAGILL, JR., '54, Westfield, N.J., October 6. 
Miss Mary Catherine Licberman and THOMAS EDWARD MAGILL, '55, Allcntown, Pa., De­cember 1. 
Miss Barbara E. Anderson and GERALD F. MERZ, '5S, N. Augusta, S.C, November 3. Miss Maura Clare Meehan and GEORGE \VINK­
LER, HI, '57, Garden City, L.I., November 17. 
Miss Mar5- Catherine Beck and THOMAS CHARLES BARTHOLO.MEW, '38, Pomona, Calif., December 27. 
Miss Mar>- Jane Anthony and H. GREGORY KILDUFF, '58, Notre Dame, Ind., August 25. Miss Susan Ellen Lawrence and LEON JOSEPH KINDT, '60, South Bend, Ind., November 3. 
Miss Susan Mar>- O'Connor and NORET ED­AMN FLOOD, JR., '61, Notre Dame, Ind., June 30. Miss Judy ChrUtic and JEROME B. KE.\RNS, 
'61, Fort WaiTic, Ind., August 25. 
Miss Carolyn Ann Wellcr and RONALD WIL­LU M BORKOWSKI, '62, South Bend, Ind., August 25. 
Miss Mary Louise Horn and ROBERT E. BUSZ­KIEHICZ, '62, Notre Dame, Ind., December 28. Miss Diana Lynn Fcbbo and DAVID PAUL 
KANE, '62, South Bend, Ind., August 25. Miss Sandra Ann Sweet and JAMES MADISON LOWE, II, '62, South Bend, Ind., December 23. 
Mtss Sharon Kay Edgar and RICHARD STAN­LEY MUSIAL, '62, St. Louis, Mo., November 24. Miss Judith Kay Yoder and JOHN BURTON 
ROSHECK, '62, Goshen, Ind., December 29. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. FRANK E. McBRIDE, JR., '50, a son, October 3. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD P. ZWERSKI, '50, a son, David Paul, August 13. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. ROSSHIRT, '54, a son, Matthew Joseph, November 9. Mr. and Mrs. JOH.\ WILLIA.M BRENNAN, JR., a son, Daniel Patrick, November 10. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL LESSO, '5G, a son, Mark Michael, June 25. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DAVID GIBBS, '57, a daughter, Clare EIi2abcth, December 17. Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE V. HAM.MEL, '57, a son, Christopher Dean, Mav 3. Mr. and Mrs. GARY ZIMMERMAN, '58, a son, Kurt, December 24. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH RICH, '58, a son, Daiid Alan, December 19. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD THOMAS, '58, a son, Richard Campbell, November 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. J KENNETH BOURGON, '60, a son, Richard Neil, November 4. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES EASTERLY, 'GO, a daugh­ter, Mary Christine, October 31. 
SYMPATHY 

LEO D. KELLEV, '21, on the death of his wife, December 4. THOMAS E. KONOP, '28, on the death of his wife, November 8. JA.MES E. DIG<W.', '29, on the death of his wife, November 7. THOMAS E. REED, '33, on the death of his wife, December 11. WILLIAM J., JR., '38, and JOSEPH R. MATHEY, '40, on the death of their father. JOHN A. McINTYRE, '40, on the death of his mother, July 26. RICHARD F. AMES, '40, on the death of hb wife. ROBERT E. DOWD, '41, on the death of his father, November 24. EDWARD M. FARLEY, III, '52, on the death of his mother, November 8. WILLIA.M W. MERCIER, '56, on the death of his father, in November. 
DEATHS 

EUSTACE CaLLLVAX, '95, famed San Francis­can lau-yer, died November 12, 1962. Probably the high light of his career was In the 1930's when he represented James A. Baclgalupi In the historic Trans-American proxy fight with A. P. Giannini, founder of the Bank of America. Sur^iWng arc his sons Vincent and Gerald, and four grand­children. 
J. L. SPALDING SLEVIN, *00, died November 
20, 1963. He is sur\ived by his son, JOHN A., '57. LAWRENCE H. LUKEN, '01, president of the 
A. G. Lukcn Drug Co., died November 20, 1962, in Richmond. Indiana. 
REV. MATTHEW J. \VALSH, C.S.C., '03, for­mer president of the University, died January 19, 1963, at the Notre Dame student infirmary after a long illness. Funeral services were held January 22, in Sacred Heart Church. 
Father Walsh's long and eventful life began in Chicago on ifay H, 1882. He wzts one of seven cliildren. After graduation he entered the noW­tialc and attended Holy Cross College, Washing­ton, D.C., studying theolog>- from 1904-1907. He also took a doctorate in history* at Catholic Uni­versity and later attended Columbia University and Johns Hopkins University. 
On December 21, 1907, Father Walsh was or­dained to the priesthood in Washington, D.C., and he offered his first Solemn Mass on December 25th in his Chicago home parish, St. Columbkille's Churcli. On December 21, 1957, he obscr\-cd the golden jubilee of his ordination at Notre Dame's Sacred Heart Church. 
Serving as vice-president of Notre Dame from 1912-1922, Father's duties were interrupted once by World War I. He scr\-ed as chaplain %vith the 3Qth Infantr>- of the Third Division in France. 
On July 7, 1922, Father assumed the presidency and launched the University's first extensive build­ing program. One cursor^' statement, the doubling in size of the student body and faculty, gives evidences of the cliangcs during his tenure. Besides overseeing the building of the South Dining Hall. Howard, Lyons, and ^forn'ssey Hatls, he endorsed plans for the football stadium. 
In 1928 Father Walsh relinquished the presi­dency and resumed his teaching career as pro­fessor of history. During this time, he also served as vice-provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross in the United States from 1929-1933. He continued as an active member of the University faculty until 1947. 
Perhaps the most appropriate eulog>' for Father Walsh is found in the speech given when he was awarded a Notre Dame honorary* Doctor of Laws degree in 1953. He was cited as "a president of the University during whose administration the faculty and student body were doubled, and the first extensive building program achieved; a pro­fessor of history whose extraordinary gift for dramatizing the political and military movements 
Notre 

word received from his son. 
CHARLES M. MURPHY, '08, an attomey-at­

law, practiced in Pittsburgh witil his death itt. 
October, according to word received from his scci^ 
tary. 
OSCAR E. VEAZEY, '09, died In Charleston, 

W. Va., on April 22, 1962. Survivors include hh­wife and a daughter. 
LEO C. McELROY, '10, died November 3D, 1962, 

in the Non%'aIk, Conn. Hospital after a brief ill­
ness. He is sur^^ved by his wife, his sons JIM>. 
'43, and ANDREW, '44, a daughter, and 15 grand­
children. 
REV. JAMES O'BRIEN, C.S.C., '13, was re­

ported deceased to the Alumni Office. 
RAYMOND JOSEPH SEIBER, '13, of Tucson* 

.Arizona, died October 21, 1962. Survivors mclude­
a son, a daughter, his mother, and nine grand­
children. 
LEO A. STURN, '13, has been deceased for manr 

years according to mail returned to the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
FRANCIS J. RYAN, '14, died suddenly December 

16, 1962, at Seattle. He had retired as an In* 
spector for the Interstate Commerce Commission. 
In Portland, Oregon, In 1959. He is survived by 
his widow, his son, and four grandchildren. 
JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., '15, a member of the University's Board of Lay Trustees, died Jann­ar>- 21, 1963, in the Presbyterian Hospital, Newark, 
N.J. He was an Insurance agent, the head of hii. own tourist agency, a member and former chair­man of the Port of New York Authority, and a. member of the N. Y. President's Committee for 
N.D. Joe, a frequent visitor to the campus, was last here for dedication of the new Cartter Field, Nov. 24th. Surviving are his wife, two sons, RICHARD and JOSEPH III, who also graduated from N.D., and three married daughters. 
JAMES E. SANFORD, Secretary of the Class 
of 1915, died in Chicago. December 28, 1962. Mr. 
Sanford was vice-president of Retirement Services, 
Inc. Surviving Mr. Sanford are his wife, three 
sons, and a sister. 
JOSEPH P. ("Stubby") FLYNN. '16, died No­
vember 21, 1962, of cancer In his Rochester, N.Y., 
home. A well-known architect, he had his own firm 
of Bohacket and Flynn. Mr. Flynn helped to or­
ganize the N.D. Club of Rochester. Surviving are 
his wife, a daughter, five grandchildren, and a. 
sister. 
HARRY A. METZGER, '16, of Indianapolis, 
Ind., is deceased, according lo tvord received in 
the Alumni Office. There is no date of death 
available. 
EUGENE STRONG, '16, of Wadsword, Ohio, has 
died, according to word received in the Alumni 
Office. No details. 
CLARENCE E. BIGGERS, '17, of Atlanta, 
Georgia, died June 10, 1962, according to word 
received from his widow. 
ELMER C. TOBIN, '19, died unexpectedly In his Elgin, Illinois, home on December 19, 19^. .Attorney Tobln was past president of the Elgin Bar Association and the Kane County Bar Asso­ciation. Survivors are his wife, daughter, son, four (grandchildren, two brothers, and two sisters. 
THOMAS H. BEACOM, '20. LL.D., '35, senior vice-president of the First National bank in Wln­netka, Illinois, died December 28, 1962 in his home. In 1961-62 he was president of the American Bankers association trust division. He was a director of several corporations Including the Stewart-Wamer Corp., the Copley Press, Inc., and the Arizona Blltmore. At the time of his death, Mr. Beacom was scr\ing as treasurer of the board of lay trustees ot the University. Mr. Beacom is survived by his widow, a daughter, and a son. 
JAMES N. McGIRL, '20, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, has died according to word received in the Alumni Office. 
CHARLES A. BLACK, '22, of Tulsa, Oklahoma, was reported as deceased to the Alumni Office. He is survived by his wife. 
Sister M. JUDITH CONNELLY. LH.M., M.A., '22, died in February, 1962, according to word received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
DANIEL M. COUGHLIN, '22, former post­master and editor at Waseca, Minn., died January 4, 1963. He had served as president of the Minne­sota Editorial Association and the Minnesota Post­masters Association. Sur\'ivors include his widow, three sisters, and four brothers. 
CLEMENT DANIEL HAGERTY. '22. a 
Dame AlumnuSj Feb.'March, 1963 
practicing attorney in San Antonio, Texas, at the 4, 1962, in his home town of Chicago, Illinois. GOLDEN JUBILEE REUNION time of his death December 17, 1952, is sur%ivcd Survivors are his wife and four children. Iby his wife, a sister, two nieces and a nephew. WILLIAM P. MANNIX, '50, of Indianapolis, June 14-15-16 
L 

Dr. JOHN B. REARDEN, '24, a specialist in 'Obstetrics and g>*necolog>', died November 12, 1962, in New York City. Dr. Rearden was a diplomate •of the American Board of Obstetrics and Gyne­
•colog>', a fellow of the .American College of Ob­stetrics and G>'nccoIog>', and a member of num­-erous other medical associations. SurA"iving arc his wife, a son, a daughter^ and a sister. 
FRANCIS A. MEKUS, '26, president of the -Croghan Colonial Bank, Fremont, Ohio, died un­-cxpectedly November 14, 1962, In Toledo. He was 
the immediate past president of Ohio Bankers* association and an active member of otiicr banking councils and numerous civic organizations. Sur­
xivors include his mother, his wife, two brothers, -and tliree sisters. 
JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN, JR., '27, died in Oi>-m­pic Fields, Illinois, on December 7, 1962. Mr. Sul-Jivan was a partner in the law firm of Rathjc, Kulp, Sabel and Sullivan. He is sur\*ivcd by his 
•wife, daughter, two sons, motlier, father (JOS. 
J . SULLIVAN, SR., '01), sister and brother. 
&UURICE BRENN.\N CONLEY, '28, City Judge •of Fulton, N. Y., died December 20, 1962, after a short illness. Surviving, besides his wife, are t^vo sons, four daughters, four grandcliildren, and three sisters. 
WALTER J. PALTZ, '28, a retired engineering 

•associate at £sso Rcsearcli and Engineering Co., -died November 25, 1962, at his home in Fanwood, 
N.J. Early in his career, he worked on the design -of the first commercial butadiene plant built for Humble Oil at Baton Rouge. He served on com­mittees tliat worked with the U. S. Govt, to de­velop a s>Tithelic rubber program for W.W. II. He was connected with the development of tlic butyl s>'nthetic process, and contributed to process dev'elopment for manufacturing detergents, lube oil additive components and other pctro-chcmicals. His "vvife, three sons, mother, brother, and sbter survive. 
FILANK R. CALLAHAN, '30, of East Chicago, Ind., has died, according to word received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
DONALD L. NORTON, '30, died in St. Louis, Mo., on December 26, 1962, after a short illness. "Surx'ivors include a sister, two sons, a daughter, 
•and eight grandcliildren. 
JOSEPH FRANCIS VERTACNIK, '31, of Mt. "Clemens, Mich., died according to mail received in the Alumni Oflice. No detaib. 
JOHN JOSEPH GALLA, '33, of Bridgeport, Conn., died April 16, 1962. His wife survives. 
VICTOR J. SCH.AEFFNER, '33, a prominent labor relations attorney in Detroit, died December 7, 1962. Surviving arc his wife, two dauglitcrs, two sons, two sisters and a brother. 
AUSTIN F. SULLIVAN, '33, of Avon, Ohio, died December 20, 1962, according to word received in the Alumni Office from his wife. 
AMBROSE FORTHOFER, '36, of Avon, Ohio, died December 23, 1961, according to word re­ceived from his widow. 
PAUL ERNEST KRAUSE, '36, of Long Island. 

N. Y., died November 13, 1962, after an illness of ten weeks. He was a coach at Hempstead High School since 1943 and first president of Nassau County Track Coaclies Association. Mr. Krausc is survived by his wife, a son, and two daughters. 
WILLIAM B. STAPLETON, '36, died suddenly November 26, 1962, at his home In West Hartford, Conn. He had just retired from the Department of Public Welfare in August. 
EDWARD PATRICK LYNAUGH, '37, of Phil­adelphia, Pa., is deceased, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. S'o details. 
JOHN CLEMENT KRAJNIAK, '42, of Dearborn, Mich., has died, according to mail returned to the Alumni Oflice. No details. 
GEORGE E. SOKOLSKY, LL.D.. '46, died De­cember II, 1962, in his Manhattan apartment. Besides writing his daily column, Mr. Sokolsky was chairman of the board of the American Jewish League Against Communism, director of the Lionel Corp. and the Tower Universal Corp. He is sur­vived by his wife, two sons, and a daughter. 
JAMES J. KLOCKENKEMPER, '49, died Janu­ary 23, 1963, of injuries sustained in a traffic acci­dent Jan. 12; he had never regained consciousness. Jim's college education was interrupted by \V. ^V. II but he returned to study journalism and was welterweight boxing champion of the University for two years. In 2950 Jim joined United Press International. At the time of his death he was UPI regional executive for Michigan. Survivors include Jim's wife Patricia, whom he married in 
•57, their three children, his parents and six 
brothers. PAUL P. KLOSTER, '49, died suddenly Januar>­
Ind., is dead, according to word received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
Lt. RICHARD S. HORSFALL, '59. was fatally injured November 2, 1962, when the plane he was piloting crashed on landing in Japan. Survivors arc Ills parents, two sisters, two nieces and nephews, and a maternal grandmother. 
ALEX PENKALA Is surely remembered by many old *'Soriniles" of the thirties and forties. Alex, until his death on Januarv' 2, 1962, had been janitor in Sorin Hall for over a generation. 
51st TO 100th ANNIVERSARY 
Reunion Classes 
1912-1863 
LI-C 
June 14-15-16, 1963 
50-YEAR CLUB 
From the Alumni Office: 
Tlic most sorrowful of many sad announcements this time concerns the death, on January 19, of FATHER .MATTHEW J. WALSH, C.S.C., teacher, '03, spiritual director, historian, .^rmy chaplain. University vice-president for 10 years (1912-22) and one of the great presidents of Notre Dame (1922­28). In reviewing his presidency, whicli saw the doubling of the physical University, student body and faculty and the establishment of the Alumni .-Vssociation as we know it today, little can be added to the glowing testimony of the prcmonitor)' paragraphs in last October's .ALUMNUS, entitled simply "Father Matt" by 1915 Secretary- JAMES SfVNFORD in his column. It was ordained that the long illness which prompted the Sanford tribute would linger until January- and that the sudden death of Jim Sanford would precede the passing of his beloved master by three weeks. 
Material for this column is often written two months before publication. Tliis v\-a5 the case In a review of the life and career of San Francisco's lavv->er-joumalist EUSTACE CULLIN.\N, '95, In the last issue. Again the treatment took on the nature of a eulogy, since Mr. Cullinan died last Nov. 12, long before the magazine came out. Sj-mpathy to the surviving Cullinan sons on the loss of their father, a great Califomian. Equally missed will be the following departed semiccn­tenarians: J. L. SPALDING SLEVEN, '00; LAW­RENCE H. LUKEN, '01; SAMUEL J. GUERRA, '06; CHARLES .M. MURPHY, '08; OSCAR E. VE.\ZY, '09; and LEO C. McELROY, *I0. 
With an attrition approaching decimation in the ranks, we hope that more 50-Year Clubbers will avail themselves of the standing Invitation to take part In the Notre Dame Class Reunions everv* June. 
DR. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, '15 (left), 1960 Lactarc Aledallst, receives the Christopher Columbus Medal m Munich, Germany, from Dr. Bruno E. Werner, noted German novelist and former cultural affairs officer of the German Embassy in Washington, D.C. 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y, 
From the Alumni Office: REV. PATRICK R. DUFFY, C.S.C., "feels great," according to word from him in November from St. Marv's Hospital, Tucson, Ariz., although he reported the death of RAY.MOND J. SIEBER In Tucson and of FATHER JAMES O'BRIEN, C.S.C., formerly of St. Edward's University in Austin, Tex. (and the death of another classmate, LEO STURN, some time ago was just recently learned). Father Duffy wrote: **As chaplain here, I was with R.AY SIEBER. He had a prayerful and peace­ful death. I think Ray started at Holy Cross sem and transferred to old St. Joe Hall (Badln)." Ray went to Tucson 22 years ago after retire­ment from the newspaper advertising business In Racine, Wis., and had worked In the Arizona air­craft industry for a while. Father Duffy had an article In last October's Columbia Magazine entitled "The Navy Nurses' Hundredth Birthday." Packed with N.D. lore, the article proves that Father Sorin and the Sisters of Holy Cross founded the Nav>- Nurses Corps during the Civil War. Here's hoping Father Pat will join a great group of the Class of '13 for the Silver Jubilee celebration starting June M. 
1914 
Walter Clements 623 Park Avenue South Bend, Indiana 
The class mourns the recent deaths of FATHER .MATTHEW WALSH, and JOE BYRNE. 
In writing about members of the class of '14, its present secretary* thinks he has hit the jackpot when he has for his subject JOE WALSH. 
Joe was valedictorian of our class and insofar as records show, was the first electrical engineer to be so honored at Notre Dame. But tliat was only the beginning of a long and useful career. With the exception of nearly two years in the Railway Artillcrv- during World War I, he was engaged for forty-three years In the elevator business with several companies on the East Coast. When he retired in '57 he was director of engineering for Sedgwick Machine Works, New York City. 
Since retirement he Is still retained on the com­pany's Board of Directors, though he moved to the West Coast and now may be reached at West 707 Fifth .\vc., Spokane, Wash. He sa>-s that this country is his favorite of all places In America, but probably an even Important reason for his clianging to the Northwest was so as to be near his daughter, Peggy (Mrs. ^Villiam Grant), her husband and five children who constitute Joe's immediate family, Mrs. Walsh having passed away in 1943. Mr. Grant, a former naval officer and .Annapolis graduate, is now an attorney in Spokane. 
Of all the Notre Dame alumni Joe is considered one of the most zealous and active, and in addition to that he Is president of a Prnesidium of the Legion of ^tary and treasurer of the Diocesan Curia of that great international organization devoted to prating and working in the name of our Blessed Mother. As part of the work under the sponsorship of the Legion In the behalf of souls, he Is a daily attendant at Mass. 
Last year his Notre Dame Club presented him vvitli a scroll honoring him as its Notre Dame man of the year. 
Joe's postrctircmcnt irarcer shows how much of what really matters can be accomplished after retire­ment. It is a fine example of what may be done in the service of God and fellow men by those who otherv\ise might liave time on their liands. 
January 10, 1960, marked a birthday and an an­niversary- for RAY THOMAS MILLER in Cleve­land, O. An anniversary- (his 25th as chairman of the Cu>-3hosa County Democratic Party) the like of which Cleveland has never seen. Nearly I,7(X) people packed the Hotel ballroom for the testi­monial dinner, and warm messages of congratula­tion and regret at not being able to attend came from many more, including President JOHN F. 

26 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
KENNEDY (LL.D. *50) and Notre Dame's FATHER HESBURGH. Notre Dame men present included FATHER LOUIS THORNTON, C.S.C., '29, representing the University administration; DAN DUFFY, '21, of the committee on arrange­ments; JAMES H. CROWLEY and Ray's brother DON C. MILLER, '23, of the Four Horsemen; former Law Dean CLARENCE E. "PAT" MANION, '22; advertising executive DENNIS O'NEILL, '26, and many more. Present also were Democratic National Chairman John Bailey, Governor Michael DiSalle, Senator Stephen Young, Mayor Ralph Loclicr and cvcr>' Ohio businessman, judge, legis­lator, athletic figure, political leader, etc., you could think of. A beautiful souvenir program de­tailed in words and pictures Ray's career and family, including Harr>*, Walter, Don and 15 other Millers of Ohio and Notre Dame. Pictured is Ray's life as an athlete (track and football), young !aw>*cr and oflicer decorated in France during World War I; as prosecutor and mayor of Cleveland be­fore becoming county chairman in 1938; as candi­date for governor and friend of hundreds of celebri­ties; and as a leader in the presidential campaigns of Franklin D. Roosevelt, Harrj- S. Truman, Adlai 
E. Stevenson and, most spectacularly of all, John Kennedy. Congratulations, Ray, and many happy returns. As brother Walt said: "The Miller boys they had a mill/that was always running and never stlll,/and when it was running it made a noise/be­cause It was run by the Miller boys." 
Clarence Manion sent us the copy of his toast at the Ray Miller testimonial dinner, which he had prepared to send to FATHER MATTHEW WALSH, who alas! died before it could be delivered to him. Father Walsh had ser\-ed as Chaplain in the same regiment of World War I in w*hich Ray ^N-as an officer. They remained lifelong friends. 
1915 
James E. Sanford 
1200 Sherwin, Apt. 1-E Chicago 26, Illinois 
Wc have made It a policy In our 1915 Column never to make any plea for Foundation funds, leaving that entirely to the individual to determine for himself tlie help he offers the University ac­cording to his resources and desires. However, it Is urgent this year that 100% participation be our goal so this letter follows our column in which wc paid tribute to our beloved FATHER iL\T­THEW WALSH, C.S.C., and wc know a generous response will be vcr>* gratifying to him. If you have already contributed, accept our thanks per­sonally and that of the University — if not send what you can whether It is $5 or $500. Let's end with the Class of 1915 showing full participation. 
You will soon be hearing from President BOB ROACH and his committee In preparation for a good attendance in 1963, our oOth Anniversary*. 

From the Alumni Office: Tlie message above, composed by JAMES £. SANFORD, was sent to the Class of 1915 just before Christmas. A few days later, on December 28, Jim Sanford was dead. In early December he went to Presbytcrian-St. Luke's Hospital In Chicago for (he wrote confi­dentially) "a case of angina pectoris complicated by a resected stomach situation dating back 36 years when Mayo's kept 2/5 for a permanent exhibit of a stomach secreting more acid than any thc>- had up to that time. I believe that Is what they said. So really I have gone 36 years on bor­rowed time." He was released, then suffered a relapse and returned to the hospital after three daj's. He died after the Year End issue of the ALUMNUS had gone to press. In November and December Jim received much congratulatory mail for his reverent tribute to his ailing idol, FATHER MATTHEW WALSH, C.S.C., who followed him In death on January 19. The well-wishers Included GEORGE VERGARA, '25, former mayor of New Rochelle, N.Y., and HOW­ARD PHALIN, '28, executive vice-president of Field Enterprises Educational Corp. and a Notre Dame academic advisor. Son of a famed Great Lakes steamship captain and brother of two other N.D. graduates (the late JUDGE JOSEPH F. SANFORD, Law '21, and the late SISTER MARY JEROME, I.H.M., 
M.A. *22), James Sanford had a distinguished career In Detroit and Chicago as a newspaperman, advertising and public relations executive, and career counselor. At the time of his death he was associated with Chicago's Retirement Services, Inc., 
In Memoriam 
JAMES E. SANFORD 
Former Vice-President of the Alumni Association 
Devoted Secretary of the 
Notre Dame Class of 1915 
December 28, 1962 
In paradisum deducant te Angeli 
devoted to the employment and welfare of those beyond retirement age. Surviving arc his widow Ada and three children, Marion, William and ROBERT J. S.-\NFORD, '50, plus a sister. Sister Ida Catherine, I.H.M. 
Nearly a month later, on January 21, came the death of JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., veteran mem­ber of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, "Mr. Notre Dame" on the East Coast, and an ardent promoter of all things Irish. Chairman of the Board of the Jos. i L Byrne Company, a travel and Insurance bureau established by JOSEPH M. BYRNE, SR., '79, he was responsible for establish­ing the Army-N.D. football scries in New York City. A member and former chairman of the Port of New York Authority, he was also a member of Notre Dame's New York President's Committee and an all-out fan of Irish athletics. Heartfelt sympathy to his widow Marie and two alumni sons, RICHARD BYRNE, '52, and JOSEPH M. BYRNE III, '47. 
1916 
Grover F. Miller 
220 9th Street 
Racine^ Wisconsin 
From the Alumni Office: 
South Bend realtor HAROLD WEBER first noti­fied the office of the death of JOSEPH P. (STUBBY) FLYNN In Rochester, N.Y., of cancer. One of his area's best-known architects. Stubby was a World War I veteran, a former K. of C. Grand Knight and an organizer of the Rochester Notre Dame Club. Sympathy to his widow Ruth and his married daughter. Sympathy also to the family of HARRY A. METZGER of Indianapolis, on whose death there is no date or detail. 
1917 
Edward J. McOskcr 525 N. Melrose Ave. Elgin, Illinois 
From the Alumni Ollice: 
Belalcd word on the death of CLARENCE BIG­GERS. formerly of Atlanta, Ga., came from his widow, who lives at 138 Clairmont Road, Decatur, Ga. Sympatliy to her and all Clarence's family. 
Forty-Rfth Anniversary Reunion 
XLV 
June 14-15-16 
1918 
Charles W. Call 225 Patcrson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 
REV. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS informs he had a very pleasant three weeks* visit to Hawaii in December, and that he is in fine fettle to take part in the forthcoming 43tli Reunion of the Class in June. 
JOHN J. VOELKERS, Oak Park, III., rcportmr great good health, says he is dedicating himself to the job of prevailing upon his pal BILL ANDRES to meet him at the Reunion. Maybe this would be a good Idea to emulate — for one classmate who Is sure he will be on hand to try to Interest another one who may need a little convincing. 
'With all the new developments on the Campus Uk the last five years there will be plenty to Interest members of the class aside from tossing the breeze-with one another. Do let the secretar>' know about your intentions regarding attending. 
1919 
Theo. C. Radcmakcr Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
From tlie Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to that popular prof, PAUL­FENLON, who was elected to the national Board of Directors of the University by a landslide. Paul, who retired from the English faculty last year> thus keeps the Class represented on the Board, replacing retiring Vice-President MAURICE CAR* ROLL of St. Louis, Mo. 
1920 
James H. Ryan 
170 Maybrook Road Rochester 18, New York 
From the .Alumni Office: 
The Class and the Notre Dame family were-shocked by the announcement of the death of THOMAS H. BEACOM of Chicago on December 28, 1962. Senior vice-president of Chicago's First National Bank, he was nationally recognized as » trust officer and expert on estate planning. Tom was treasurer of Notre Dame's Associate Board of Lay Trustees, of which he had been a member for many years. He was an officer of many profes­sional, religious, civic, charitable and fraternal organizations and was a Knight of St. Gregory and the Holy Sepulchre. His death preceded by z few weeks the passing of JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., another Notre Dame trustee. Sympathy from all Tom's friends is extended to his widow Rosalind, to his daughter and to son THOMAS H. BEACOM, JR.. '61. 
Finally, from Tulsa comes word that JAMES 
N. McGIRL Is deceased, but no details have been received. 
1921 
From the Alumni Office: 
Not much fireworks elicited by last issue's cover reference to the new N.D. baseball park as ''Klein Memorial." Or the blurb's mention of a baseball diamond "named for venerable Professor-Coach Clarence (Jake) Klein." It's curious, since the slip seemed almost designed to raise blood pressure on three counts. First, the spelling "Klein," to which even JAKE KLINE hasn't raised a vocal objectiim. Second, the naming of the field for Coach Kline is strictly wishful scuttl^utt since the playing fidd, officially unnamed. Is a part of the traditional Cartler domain. And third, use of the word "memo­rial" might suggest that CLARENCE KLINE would have to be remembered for something other than the fast, flashy Irish nines he fields every year. Our apologies, Jake, even though they weren't requested. 
JUDGE DAN DUFFY, now an election boani member in Cleveland, was among the local bigwigi forming a committee for the January testunonial dinner honoring RAY T. MILLER, '14, former mayor, prosecutor and gubernatorial candidate, on the occasion of his 25th anniversary as county political chief for the Democrats. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 173 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Sympathy to the widow and sister of former South Bend lawyer CLEM D. HAGERTY, who practiced in San Antonio, Tex., for 13 years until his death last December 17. Also to the widow of CHARLES A. BLACK, who was reported de­ceased from Tulsa, Okla., with no further details. 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-March, i963 
And there was delayed word from Detroit's Mar>-­grove College that a summer school classmate, -SISTER MARY JUDITH CONNELLY, I.H.M., Jied in February, 1962. Please pray for them all. 
Fortieth Anniversary 
Reunion 
June 14-15-16 
1923 
Xouis V. Bruggner 
2165 Riverside Dr. 
South Bend, Indiana 
Jrom the Alumni Office; 
Congratulations to MERLIN ROLWING of Cairo, lU., on the appointment of his son, ROBERT E. JIDLWTNG, '48, as chief engineer for Chicago's Edward Gray Corp., a leading construction finn. lllerlin and Bob intend to team up for their 40th :and I5th reunions respectively on the campus June 14-16. 
1924 
James R. Meehan 301 S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
from the Alumni OfBce: 
A leading specialist in obstetrics and gynecolog>', Dr. JOHN B. REARDEN died of a heart ailment ilast November in New York. S>Tnpathy to his wife ^fildred and their two children. 
1925 
John P. Hurley 
2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
From the Alumni Ofiice: 
DON C. MILLER called the one-hour television show "The Prospective on Greatness" depicting the life of KNUTE ROCKXE "the greatest history of Rock that has been presented to the public." Of the thousands of fan letters he has received in the past 35 years, Don sa>-s he was never impressed by any as much as by a letter received from Rev. LcRoy C. Hcnsel, a retired Presbyterian minister. Don sent along a copy, from ivhich we quote: "I was thrilled the other evening to watch the TV program reviewing the life of Knutc Rockne. It brought back memories to me which, to this day, arc rich in inspiration. . . . During the I920's I was an officer in an industry- in Valparaiso, Ind. Those were the years when you and Layden and Crowley and Stuhldreher made up Rockne's back­field. My son is now 44 years old and a key man in Thompson Ramo Woolridge, Inc., in Detroit. He was a lad between 6 and 10 years of age then. Often on Saturda>'s we drove to South Bend to sec the games. It's a strange thing, but something in the field of character x'alucs from Rockne and you men nibbed off on me and on that lad. He often speaks about it today. I know he means it, for it helped shape his character in the years to come. A fellow cannot CTcpIain such intangible values, but they are verj- real. TIic drive you men dis­played in those games became a part of the boy and myself. ^Vhcn I took charge of this dturch in 1931 I faced a d>-ing church \^'ith nearly $100,000 of debt and an active membership of about 100, with a building worth a quarter million. I started in with a courage and drive Rockne and you men - put into me. It took 21 years to meet that debt and receive over 1,000 persons into the church. This is of course the human side of a spiritual rictory. I often find myself humming 'The Bells of St. Mark's.' ... " 
Congratulations also to Don on the recent 25th anniversary* of his brother, the legendary RAY T. MILLER, *14, as Cuyahoga County Democratic chairman. 
One of the men mentioned by Rev. Hcnsel, HARRY A. STUHLDREHER, has been elected to the Board of Lay Trustees at Trinity College, Washington, D.C. Harry is assistant to the vice-president of United States Steel Corp. and former football coach at VUlano^'a and A\%consin. He and wife Mary, a Trinity alumna, live -in Pittsburgh. 
Last Nov. 6 BERNARD G. KESTING managed to offset the earlier \"ictoiy of Purdue over the 

AMBROSIAN LECTURES, first in a series sponsored by Notre Dame's Mediaeval Institute, employed these principals at New York's Pierpont Morgan Library: (l.-r.) F. B. Adams, library director; Mrs. Stephanie Gehring, hostess; Dr. E. A. Ix)we, lecturer from Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study; Mrs. James Walters, hostess; and Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O. Praem., director of the Mediaeval Institute, who described ihe project of microfilming the entire manuscript collection of Milan's Ambrosian Library. 
Irish 24-6 by beating his opponent, a Purdue man, 83,900-58,600 in the race for Lucas County engineer in Toledo, O. 
1926 
Frank A. Deitle 1763 Kessler Blvd. South Bend 16, Ind. 
From the Alumni OfKce: 
JOSEPH L. BARRIN'GTOX of Englcwood, X.J., has been appointed publications editor for Johns-Manvillc Corp. in New York, responsible for the house organ Ncw3 Pictorial and the J-M external magazine, The Power Specialist. Joe started %v-ith the Class, continued at Yale and finished at Colum­bia. He went to J-M from J. Walter Thompson in 1949 as a senior advertising copy writer; he has been a>py chief and editor since then. He and bis wife, the former Jeanne HofTm^n, live at 631 Ridgeland Terrace, Englewood. 
J. VINCENT SOISSON, marketing vice-presi­dent for ^Vest Penn Power Co., Grecnsburg, Pa., has received tlic Citizen Citation from Washington and Jefferson College, Washington, Pa., awarded by the trustees ":n recognition of high achievement and service in the field of industr>- wliidi reflect honor upon your community." Vince was cited for the range of his civic, charitable and fraternal activities. Kb son, Joseph V., Jr., is a senior at Xotre Dame. 
FRAN MEKUS, who had just returned to his Job as president of Crogtiam Colonial Bank of Fre­mont, O., after being Spotlighted as president of the Ohio Bankers Assn., died unexpectedly in November. S>Tnpathy to his widow Lilian, his motJier, brothers and other surv'ivors. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 
A few nights ago I spent several hours reading a book devoted entirely to one of our classmates^ JOE BOL.AND. We were all stunned a couple of years ago to hear of his sudden death. Tlie entire sports world keenly felt the loss because Joe, throughout his years as a coach and later as a radio and television reporter of football games, had made a host of friends. 
Tliis book is entitled simply "Joe Boland, Notre 
Dame Man." It is a series of cliapters written by people who were close to him during different stages of his life. Perhaps many of you have al­ready bought tlie book; if not, you should. Probably the most touching section is the one written by his wife. Anyone can sec how devoted he was towards the ideal of building character through athletics. Throughout his whole career after his marriage in 1931, his wife worked with him and shared his successes and disappointments. I think we, however, will be most interested in the comments of our own classmates, other men wbo were at Notre Dame when we were, and professors. "SCRAP IRON" YOUNG has contributed an article and so have ART HALEY, JIM ARM­STRONG, ADAM ^VALSH, PAT MANION, HERB JONES and others. They all portray Joe as we remember him, a warm personality blessed with the talent of being able to express himself clearly as well as to play and coach football expertly. One does not necessarily bave to believe that football is or was the most important part of Notre Dame life to know that having a talent in that field docs no discredit to a university or its alumni. 
As I write these notes, I am in receipt of in­formation that we lost another classmate by death, JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN of Chicago, who died on December 7. Joe made many friends during bis days at Notre Dame and we should all pray for him. 
I ran into ELMER BESTEN and his wife at Dyche Stadium just before the Northwestern game in October. He looked well and happy, but I am afraid he might not have looked quite so happy right after the game. 
JACK DAILEY, BILL TRAVIS, GENE KNO­BLOCK, TOM DUNN and I, all members of the law class, with our wives, had our annual miniature reunion right after the Pittsburgh game on November 10. Through the courtesy of Gene, we enjoyed a dinner-dance at the South Bend Countrx* Club. We are alwa>-s glad to let any others join us on such occasions. We hope that more can at­tend next year. Ever\*one who ^vas present this time was well and appears to be making a comfort­able living. 
Many months ago I received a newsy letter from ELMER MARCHING. He brought me up to date for the period since graduation. He was un­able to attend our reunion for the reason that the wedding of his youngest daushter occurred on that week end. I know we arc all getting to realize more and more that this is certainly a justifiable excuse. Elmer has two girls and a boy. Both daughters are now married. The younger one, incidentally, was on the 1956 United States Women's OI>-mpic team and participated in the Olj'mpics at Melbourne, Australia. Her husband is a 1961 graduate of Notre Dame and was captain of his swimming team. Elmer's son is now a junior at 

28 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
Indiana University in the school of business adminis­tration. Elmer's address is 529 Circle Tower, Indianapolis 4, Indiana. I am sure he would be glad to hear from his classmates. 
I saw BILL KAVANAUGH at one of the games last fall. He of course was at the reunion a fcv*­months ago so I do not have much news to report about him. I know, however, that one of his sons, BUI, Jr.j Is a senior at Notre Dame and is achieving quite a reputation as an actor. He played the lead role in Hamlet and was outstanding In the part. 
Tliese notes are being written a few days before the winter season actually begins, but true to form. South Bend has already got enough snow to last a whole year. According to the papers, more than 32 inches fell in a few days. My son Phil, now a senior, just returned home for the Christmas holi­days and strangely enough wasn't too disappointed In the weather this time. It seems that tJic snow was so deep that many professors weren't able to get to their classes. 
Speaking of winter reminds me that last year my wife and I were at Notre Dame for a week end In March. We stayed at the Morris Inn. On Sunday I took a walk on the campus alone. 1 didn't see a single person I knc^v. I realized then that all the persons, priests and students were from a different generation. It dawned on mc that there arc three Notre Dames: 
One is the Notre Dame the public knows, the one you see at football games, either enthusiastic in viclor>* or glum In defeat, but a Notre Dame that is almost national in character. This Notre Dame changes little from year to year. Tlie same people, men and women, come back year after year to watch the succession of football trams at the stadium. 
The second Notre Dame is the one we remember and cherish. As I walked on the main quadrangle, surrounded once more by the Main Building, Sacred Heart Church, Sorln &. Walsh Halls, Washington Hall, Science Hall and the old Law Sdiool, on this particular occasion I half expected to meet FATHER O'HARA, FATHER PAT HAGERTY, PROFESSOR PHILLIPS or the leaders on the campus, LES GRADY, DAN CUNNINGHAM, RED SMITH, or the others who played their part in our day. But none of these were around; some will never be. This Notre Dame will always live in our hearts. 
The Notre Dame of the present h the third Notre Dame. To the professors and the students of this day, this is the most Important period. Except to us, the Notre Dame of our day is Important only in the sense of forming a part of that \'aguc, unde­finable thing called tradition. The Notre Dame of today Is the composite of students, professors, hun­dreds of thousands of friends, and alumni of all the difTcrcnt classes. 
From the Alumni OfUce: 
Classmates may have missed the news that the papers of the late Democratic national cliairman, PAUL MULHOLLAND BUTLER, have been pre­sented to the University by Paul's widow and children. Mrs. Ann Butler, Incidentally, is now a special assistant to the Sccretar>' of Labor,, living in Takoma Park, Md. .\nd youngest son Brian Is a Notre Dame student helping to process the Butler papers for the University. 
S>*mpatliv to the family of another la\s'>'cr, JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN, JR., of Chicago and 01>'mpic Fields, III., who died in December. That family includes his widow and three children and his parents, Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. SULLIVAN, SR., '01, Law '02. 
Thirty-Rfth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1928 
Louis F. Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest HilU 75, N.Y. 
From Vice-President BERN GARBER: 
LOU BUCKLEY relinquished his column to mc for this issue, he having been invited by the West German government, with other U.S. labor experts, to visit, inspect, comment on German labor con­ditions, practices, laws. Lou wrote from there that he was impressed by German friendliness, the scarcity of drinking water and the extensive hand­shaking. Pauline joined him after Thanksgiving; in Vatican City they saw 2,000 colorfully clad mem­bers of the Council leave St. Peter's one noon.­
Lou complimented the helpfulness of VINCENT McALOON, '34, director of the Notre Dame Center In Rome and urged any '28 men visiting the Holy City to see VIncc and the Center. The Buckleys had dinner in Rome with Barbara, student and daughter of JUDGE BILL JONES. Not having found another '28 man in all his travels (at last report), Lou may come home with a neurosis. 
The s>*mpathy of our class goes to RUSSELL 
R. SMITH upon the death of his wife, April 20, 1962, Good Friday, and to JERRY DcCLERCQ whose father died last Julv at the age of 87. Also to Helen Law, widow of JOHNNY LAW, who died October 14. John was practically a member of the '28 class, received all our mailings, attended our 30th reunion. 
Despite hea\y rains and the score of the Michi­gan Slate game, these '28 men with wives, sons, guests, gathered that Saturday afternoon in the basement of O'Shaughnessy Hall to warm their bodies and spirits at the successful cocktail party arranged by VINCE CARNEY and JIM ALLAN: 
BUD TOPPING, TO.M BOV, BERNIE SCHUH, MIKE HOGAN, FRANK CREADON, JIM AL­LAN, FLOYD SEARER, BILL H. MURPHY, JOHN RICKORD, BILL KIRW.\N, D. D. DALEY, JOE DORAN, GUS JENKINS, ED McGAULEY, VINCE WALSH, JOE MORRISSEY, BILL DU*VER, BILL ARMIN, HOWIE PHALIN (with Sir Edmund and Lady HIllar>), FATHER .MARK FITZGERALD, JOHN LAHEY, EDDIE RAFTER, ED McKEOWTS', MAX GAUTHIER, myscU and several who may be Inadvertently omitted. 
The same weekend I visited with my son Brady, a junior, and ED QUINN and GEORGE SCHEUER, local committeemen for our 33th re­union next June. Ed, competently busy heading guidance and testing at the Universit>-, now has 13 grandchildren, the oldest ten. I had a good visit with George and his wife; two of their sons are married. One of George's many activities is a training school at the South Bend Tribune for college students planning to be newsmen. His program is being adopted by other prominent papers. 
I enjoyed seeing ANDY BOYLE of the Science faculty and FATHER LOU THORNTON, N.D. placement director, who seemed optimistic on the counlr>''s business outlook. Father Lou spoke of his pleasure in visiting the LARRY CULLINEY family last spring. 
Following the Northwestern game, HOWARD PHALIN was host In his new and lovely Winnctka home. VINCE CARNEY reported it a fine party with big discussions going on into the night. The classmates there included, with wives, JIM ALLAN, TED AUSTEN, BILL DUTER, GUS GRAMS, 
JOE GRIFFIN, JOE HILGER, BERNIE KORZEN, BOB KNOX, WILUAM LEAHY. ED McKEOWN, PHIL QUINN, CHARLES SCHUESSLER, JOHN WOULFE, DICK PHELAN and, in BILL KEARNEY'S absence, his wife. 
F. X. JAMES O'BRIEN, one of Buckley's faith­ful correspondents, wrote him from Miami that BOB "Rm.Am" HAMILTON had phoned F. X. while there in October, and that (do you drive to Florida?) GEORGE LEPPIG is chief of the uni­formed police there In Dade county. A clipping enclosed from the Miami Herald pictured GEORGE COURY with a news story that George had been elected chairman of the newly organized Interna­tional Bank of Miami. 
JOE KANE now lives in New York, having a position with the City in one of its hospitals — I talked with him at an N.D. Club meeting. At the Universal N.D. Conmiunion of the Gotham Club, GEORGE CRONGEYER (on the commit­tee) found himself the only '28 man present. George Is scheduled for a vacation trip to Europe on Jan. 
31. Possibly he needs it after the masterful and time-consuming job he did for the Notre Dame Foundation in its N.Y. telephone campaign, an out­standing success. George reported that his Wyan­dotte townsman, NEIL AMIOT, had been on the campus for the Pitt game. Our famous golfer, BILL KELLY, hailed mc last Nov. at Stepinac H.S., ^Vhitc Plains, which our sons attend. BUI has given up teaching for an administrative position with the Board of Education of NYC. His son is aiming for ND in 1966. 
Can It be that '28 men are aging? Our genial Kansas City classmate, HENRY MASSMAN, has a son, John T., as one of the candidates for elec­tion to the National Alumni Board. John Is a '56 classman. Henry wrote me (November) that he then had 9.3 grandchildren. \Vhat classmate has more? 
Our reunion comes June 14, 15, 16, 1963. There was an excellent response to the postal card notice I sent out in early November. By December I, there were 134 saying yes, they planned to attend, and many more hoping to do so. BOB LAMEY says he Is planning on making the 40th Reunion his first! 
Other notes on the returned cards: MIKE RICKS just returned from a seven-week European trip. BOB GILLESPIE gives his winter address as Trailer Estates, P.O. Box 5405, Bradenton, Fla.; after that he is back in Three Rivers, Mich. TOM MAHON and TOM TRAUGHBER plan to travel down to­gether. ADRIAN LOPEZ (you missed the cock­tail party?) says his son Barr>' is a freshman at ND. JIM HARTLEY'S son will be graduated there 

SALINA — Alunuii and vacationing students were among tbose who received a firsthand account of the proceedings at the Second Vatican Council from Bishop F. W. Frekii^; at the Central Kansas dinner observance of Universal NJ). Communion Sunday in December. Seated (l.-r.) are Norb Skelley, President John Browne (day Center), Bishop Freking, John Schwartz, and Jim Foley. Standing (L-r.) are Tom Kennedy, Cleo Mekher, Frank Carroll (Manhattan), Al McLean, Tom Clausscn, Jnn Conway (McPherson), Dick Basgall, John Carlin, Charles Schwartz, Dr. Fred Cans, and Dr. Richard Mosier 
(Herington). All are from Salina except those whose home towns are parenthesbed. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 29 
CLASS OF 1928 members at the annual fall reunion at O'Shaughnessy Hall, planning a particularly plush 35th Anniversary- Reunion for next June 14-16, included (from left): Vice-President Bern Garber, Bcmie Schuh, and Bill Dwycr; Bill Kiru-an, Joe Doran, and Ed McGooley; Bill Murphy, Vince Walsh, and President Jim Allan. Secretary Lou Buckley was absent, en route to Germany. 
next June. PETE GALLAGHER and DR. GUY 
LORANGER were at school in June. '62. for their 
sons' graduation but failed to meet one another. 
It's a big place now! My o^vn second son, Clint, 
is hoping to be admitted for Sept., *63. ^\'hat 
other Class sons uill be there? Tell Buckley. 
From LARRY CULLINEY: ''On Dec 1, Kathy, 

my good wife, and I drove down the Memtt 
Parkway to meet with those fine Westchester people, 
the Garbers, and to listen to the N.D.-U.S.C. 
game. Recently I saw sundr>- Vermont X.D. men, 
to wit: ART MITIGUY, Burlington, with whom I 
plaimcd tlie 35th reunion trip; JOE CANNON, 
'27, erstwhile sage of Badin Hall, attorney and 
County Clerk; JOHN FOLEY, '27, prominent hous­
ing man; JOE R.\DIGAN, '29, federal D.A. and 
ED McCLELLAN*, '31, attorney, all of Rutland and 
looking forward to a good skiing winter." (adrt) 
Herc*s something to imitate in your to*\Ti: In 

Fostoria, Ohio, GERALD SHEIBLEY %sritcs, a 
University Club of Catholic Men has been started, 
with N.D. alumni being the majority of the mem­
bers 3t the present time. 
From JERRY RAYBURN, Granada Hills, Cali­

fornia: "I am most grateful for your news items 
over these many years. Working on California free­
wa>-s." And from Allentown, Pa.: "My oldest 
son Lee (Leo R. Jr.) %WI1 be g^^^^^f^^i God 
and his profs willing, from our beloved .-Mma Mater 
in June, '63, and I will remain to greet you and 
all the rest of our belox-cd and breathing twenty­
cighters at our 35th Reunion, God willing. Cordially, 
LEO McINTYRE." 
Some months before his father's death, JERRY DeCLERCQ bad a grandson, Paul, by son Tom and wife. STEVE SHERRY spent the Christmas holi­da}*: In Mexico. If you want travel information on the U.S. and nearby countries, go to Muncie and sec DICK GREENE. HAROLD CANAVAN, Butlerite now in Altamont, N.Y., says he can't make the reunion. (He will change his mind.) 
Following the reunion this June (but ordering 

game tickets before that) '28 men might bring 
wives, sons and guests to New York for the Notre 
Dame-Syracuse football game on Tlianksgiving, 
Nov. 28, 1963. It is expected to be a student trip 
and senior trip also. I hereby ask Buckley to ar­
range for a big fireplace and hot toddy following 
the game. 
—BERN GARBER 

A postscript from the returning Sccrctarv-: 
 regret having to report the deatfi of MAURICE CONLEY on Dec 20, 1962. Maurice was one of the most devoted and loyal members of the Class of '28. He recently wrote upon receipt of our Class Roster as follows: *'In looking over our Class Roster it certainly brings back pleasing memories of tlie wonderful years we spent together at Notre Dame, as classmates." Maurice served for many years as City Judge and as an attorney in his home town of Fulton, N.Y. He is sur\*ived by his xnfe and se\'en children. One son, Peter, wlio was graduated at Notre Dame in 1956, is practicing law in Svra­crusc. One daughter is a member of St. Joseph's Order, Albany, N.Y. Maurice was active in ci\ic and religious affairs. He was trustee of the College of St. Rose in Albany and a member of the Board of Go\*emors of Lee Memorial Hospital in Fulton. Please remember Maurice in your prayers. I have arranged for a Mass to be offered by Father Mulreany, CS.C. 
—LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, Secy. 

From the Alumni OfHce: LOU BUCKLEY'S address, "Social Security and Social Insurance," delivered before the Sodality Congress of the Lay .4postoIate held in N.Y.C., Sept. 2. 1962, has been reproduced in December's issue of the Catholic Mind published by the America Press. At the time of the magazine's deadline. Secretary Buckley did not realize that distinguished classmate EDWARD PHALIN, who has just accepted mem­bership on the Arts and Letters .Advisory Council, generously donated approximately $200,000 for the mural of the new library. Ed deserves multitudin­ous cheers from students and fellow alumni. A supplementary- item was sent in by your Secre­tary concerning the death of MAURICE CONLEY (see Obituary- Column). Lou asks prayers for ^laurice who Iiad recently written him upon re­ceiving his '28 Class Roster. **In looking over our Class Roster it certainly brings back pleasing memories of the wonderful years we spent together at Notre Dame as classmates," Maurice said. Pope John has bestoued the Papal Honor of the Knights of St. Gregory to ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, treasurer of the Salina, Kansas, N.D. Club. The conferral of Papal Honors took place in the Cathedral of Sacred Heart, Salina, on January 24th. GEORGE COURY, who has been a laundry cliain operator, stock broker and land speculator since moring to Miami in '45, was elected chairman of the International Bank of Miami. 
1929 
Larry Stauder Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 
.•\ftcr the October 20, Micliigan State game some twenty members of the Class of '29, along with families and guests, attended a get-together in the Engineering Building. Specially honored w*as Mary Colangelo whose 29-candIe birtliday cake wTis cut by Mary and JOHN (COLANGELO) as a highlight of the evening. John, you will recall, is with Havens and Emerson construction engi­neers. 
Early arri\-als were JLM CURRY and JERRY CRO\VLEY. Jim was recuperating from surgery but seemed his usual genial self. It was good to have them with us. 
From Muncie, Indiana's WLBC-TV and radio were BILL CRAIG and wife .Ann. Bill's excellent suggestion that we select the 1963 get-together game early is hereby being followed. Southern Cali­fornia pla>-s at Notre Dame on Oct. 12. This 1963 Rose Bowl team, a natural rival and a strong team, seems a more logical choice than either U.C.L.A. a week later or a November game. Plan on being here on Oct. 12. 
FRANKLYN DOAN and wife Mary were much at home with JOE NASH, also of the Chicago area, as well as with LOUIE NIEZER and wife Rose of Fort Wayne. They were joined by BOB yOGELWEDE and wife Virginia of Detroit. Bob is a frequent Wsitor to the campus. Your secretary has seen him in the Engineering Building on the occasion of one of his recruiting \-isits — I shouldn't embarrass him before his commerce classmates. He is my direct messenger from Father LOU THORN­TON who was again present for the later portion of the reunion. 
DON SCHETTIG and CLETE SCHNEIDER qualify as regulars now as do FRED WAGNER and our official photographer FRANCIS MEYER. Francis is a faithful and proficient "scoop" who in the best tradition wants "one more;" especially when the flash bulb liasn't been rcne^vcd. Tliank you from all of us, Francis. 
The engineers who joined with tlic STAUDERS included GENE (and Magdelenc) MILLIFF of Cleveland, JACK (and Ruth) KE.\RNS of Cham­paign, lll.y (the>* have a freshman at N.D.), GENE GALDIBINI of Indianapolis, and the THAD HEINLEIN family of Eric. 

Others who would have qualified are ROCCO PERONE, who was here a week earlier, and DOC DOUGHERTY and his wife Florence, who visited the campus on Nov. 16. Doc has been on the go, including \isits to Europe. We will have more on this later. WALTER MULFUR stopped by just a few days later on his way home from a meeting in Detroit. 
Under less pleasant circumstances we visited with KENNETH KONOP, whose mother died sudden­ly in November. We repeat an expression of sym­pathy in behalf of the Class. Ken's father, DE.\N THOMAS KONOP of Uie College of Law, survives. Your secretary was honored to 5cr\e as a pall­bearer for Mrs. Konop, who had been a neighbor for 25 years. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Two new appointments . . . Dr. GEORGE J. MCDONNEL L was elected to the board of directors of the New Jersey Tuberculosis and Health Asso­ciation. George, medical director of N.J.'s Al/cn­wood Hospital and attending ph>-sician at Fitkin Memorial Hospital, will serve as director-at-large of the state's Christmas Seal agency-. CHARLES 
W. SCHLIECKERT has been named treasurer of Sutliff Tobacco Co. in Ridimond, Va. Prior to his new status, Charles was controller of the com­pany. 
1930 
Devere Plunkctt O'Shaugbnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office; 
Deepest sympathy of the Class to the family of DONALD L. NORTON, who died the day after Christmas in St. Louis^ Mo. Reported but not documented is the death of la»-yer FRANK R. CALLAHAN of East Chicaio. 
1931 
James T. Doyle 805 W. Arcadia Ave. Arcadia, California 
From the Alumni OfiBce: 
There has been no confirmation of the report from Detroit that JOSEPH FRANCIS VERTACNK of Mt. Clemens, Mich., is deceased. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
1932 
James K. Collins 2982 Torrington Rd. Shaker Heights, Ohio 
IKE TERRY was re-clcctcd to the Wisconsin Legislature and \%Titcs that he expects to visit with many of the Class while that is in session. He has ser\-cd so many terms that we believe even he has lost track of the number. 
TED HALPIN and the writer each welcomed our first grandsons during the fall — Ted's is the son of his only son Car>" ours was bom to our Ann on Xov. 11. 
Rr\Y GEIGER has been busily travelling the countr>* and reports as follows: 
"Just by way of an interim report, please know that JIMMY DAY, assistant postmaster at the Mel­rose. Mass., post office, and star salesman for Gciger Bros., visited Maine this summer and-had witli him FATHER LEN COLLINS, Dean of Stu­dents at the University. Jimmy is gay, chipper, and extremely regretful that he could not get out for our reunion. He wisljes lo be remembered to all his friends. 
(Ray was also on the Today Show with Hugh Downs on Dec. 13, televised on XBC, and "To Tell the Truth" earlier on CBS.) 
'"While at the Chicago airport 1 had occasion to chat with NEIL HURLEY who found business in­terfering with the reunion, but was pleased to get the report of good things done. 
•'I talked with JOHN HUMPHRIES' widow in Denver and learned that he had died from a heart attack. I had lunch with him in Denver in September and he felt wonderful then. Mrs. Humphries said that because John had been a daily Communicant his body was placed inside the altar rail during the funeral Mass, 
"I had lunch with LEO CL.ARKE in Washing­ton this fall — he is still with the FBI and doing fine. Tlic same applies to JOHN RYAN, who js with the National Catholic News Council in Wash­ington. I saw JACK GEDDES and his pretty wife in Minneapolis while giving a talk to the Rotar>- Club there." 
Among the new addresses are: HARRV BURGER to 912 S. Seventh St., St. Charles, III.; ED WRIGHT to 1382 Gillette Crescent, So. Pasadena, CaK; BILL McCORMICK to 609 Karren Lane, Wichita, Kansas; WALT BLANCHARD to 17035 Dolphin Drive, St. Petersburg, F|a.; BERNARD 
ROETHELE to R. R. 4, CsssopoVis, Mich.; TO.M 
O'MALLEY to P. O. Box 1151, Aurora, III.; and NOBLE RVRBAUGH to 4750 Clarendon Drive. San Jose 29, Calif. 
Thirtieth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15- 16 
1933 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. Gillespie & O'Connor 342 Madison Ave. New York 17, N. Y. 
These notes have been preceded by a Class Letter giving full particulars regarding our 30th Reunion. Wc urge that those who have not as yet answered our questionnaire do so as soon as possible. Your views and program suggestions will be fol­lowed by the Class officers — provided they arc made known in advance of the Reunion. 
For those of us who read the *'October, 1962" edition of the ALUMNUS, remember well Jim Armstrong's scholarly editorial comment on "par­ticipation, involvement and taking part" in alumni activities. Jim stated that "today, when the Uni­versity is at the peak of its histor\-. .. . It is inconccix-abic that any alumnus can be disinter­ested in the University, its great past, its greater future. . . . Many factors contribute to some dis­counting of response. . . ." 
It is to the matter of "response" that we direct our attention. We of the early 30's can rightfully lay claim to the title of "Academic Johnny Apple-Despite the fact only one of our Class members has ever been honored by election to the Alumni Board, and despite the fact that there are no representatives on the Alumni Board between the Classes of 1925 and 1937, wc should pitch in and do our part at either class or community level to put over the University's Foundation Program. 
From the .\lumni Office we learn of the recent death of JOHN J. GALLA. John came to N.D. from Bridgeport — where he spent his whole life. Wc all remember him as an active member of the Blue Circle, "In Paradisum Dcducant To Angeli/' (May the Angels lead thee into Paradise.) 
Through Washington, D.C., via Kansas City, Mo., we learn that NORB SCHWARTZ is now in the gift and decorating business in Jefferson City, Mo. At present wc iiavcn't his cvact address, but we will pass it along as soon as wc get it. 
M.\UREY dc WALD, still in Ft. Wa>-ne, wrote recently advising that his oldest daughter had been studying for her master's at the Sorbonnc in Paris, and that his oldest son was graduated in June from N.D. Maurey will be at the Reunion in June to give us more particulars about his other three children. 
DICK ME.\DE is home for Thanksgiving after a coronar>' quarantine in the Norwalk Hospital. Dick lives in Greenwich, Conn, and commutes daily to New York, where he gives advice and counsel to the advertising staff at J. Walter Thompson. 
PAUL BLONDIN recently moved from New Haven to Orange, Conn. His new address in Orange is 53 Canargc Drive. 
JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, the Van Buren bar­rister, pre-empted the Christmas season by sending out his holiday wishes over the Thanksgiving holi­day. 
CHARLIE FARRIS, our 30lh Reunion chairman, in the spirit of rebuilding St. Louis, has even relo­cated himself. His new home address is 6515 Not­tingham, St. Louis 9, .Mo. He e.\pccls PETE CON­NELLY out from Rochester to help him dedicate the new "abode" and get acquainted with the neighbors. 
A recent note from F.\THER CHAS. SHEEDY, C.S.C., Dean of Arts and Letters, inquires about N,D.'s 1961 Root-Tildcn scholar at .N.Y.U. Law School. Father Chas. has been working on the Root-Tilden Program for a number of years. This schol­arship is recognized as the Tiffany of the law pro­fession. There arc now two N.D. students in tlie program —• thanks to Father's interest and dedica­tion to scholarship. 
Saw ED KOSKY at JOHNNY L.\^V's funeral in Tarr>*town, New York, in late October. Ed is now Working in Port Chester, New York. 
PHIL F.\HERTY is still practicing law in his home town at Lambcrtville, N.J. Phil frequently \-isits his son, who is a junior at N.D. Believe it or not, he can go from his home to N.D. via turnpike without a stoplight. 
WES FARRINGTOX is looking fonvard to 1963 for two good reasons: his 30th Reunion and his 25th wedding anniversary'. Wes lives and works in IVhitc Plains, Net*- York. 
AL DOMBROSKY's daughter. Sister Mary Al­fredinc, S.S.C., is now teaching in the parixJiial school system in Chicago. AI visited the campus in 1959 and is looking forward to our June Reunion. 
GEORGE ROHRS, in. Chicago for the annual Petroleum Industry Convention, conferred with JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY on Reunion plans. On the way back East he visited the campus and re­newed acquaintances in the Alumni Office and among the coaching stafl'. 
BILL LYNCH informs us that FATHER JIM DONNELLY, C3.C., has a ne\v assignment in Texas. Jim has labored practically his whole priest­ly life in the Lone Star State. Despite his labors in the mission field, he never forgets or over­looks our dearly departed. 
Speaking of the clergy reminds us that wc have not heard from FATHER LLOYD TESKE, C.S.C., of Portland (now Student Chaplain at N.D., Ed.) FATHER FRANK HARRISON of Syracuse, FATHER CLEVE CAREY of Long Beach, Cali­fornia or FATHER DICK PARRISH of Detroit in many an "ecumenical" year. We would wel­come word from the "pastors" of our Class. 
1934 
T, Edward Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 
From the .-Mumni Office: 
Author of the annual ticket sermon in this issue, ROBERT CAHILL, appears often in this column but never with more reason than now. Bob was mobbed and nearly trampled recently when a near riot resulted from a lack of space for students at the recent N.D.-North Carolina basketball game on the campus. In the interest of keeping a local chairman alive for the 1964 reunion.— as well as warming the heart of EDWARD W. KR.AUSE — perhaps the '34 Class should spearhead a campaign for alumni support of a new University field house immediately. 
1935 
Frankiyn Hochrcltcr 
702 Scarlet Dr. Towson 4, Maryland 
From the Alumni Office: 
THOMAS J. HILS, was presented with an award 
of merit from the City of Hialeah, Fla., given by 
Mayor Henr>- Milandcr for outstanding reports on 
council meetings and general political writings. In 
part the award read: **For unselfish devotion of 
time and energies in performance of his duties, 
this city has greatly benefited. . . ." Tom was Man 
of the Year in 1958 in a citation by the New-
Haven N.D. Club. 
Synanon House, the rehabilitation center founded 

seeds." Our parents struggled through the fright­ful depression of the 30*s to send us to N.D. so CLASS OF 1929 group with families, one of several dusters captured on slightly 
that We could bring back the love of learning to finger-worn Polaroid prints, gathered in the Engineering Building for the annual postgame 
our "home frontiers.** How "our Class stands" in 

get-together last football season, arranged as usual by the South Bend-based officers 
the University's Challenge Program should, on the eve of our 30th Reunion, be a matter of pride. of the Class, President Francis Jones and Secretary-Professor Larry Stauder. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 31 
by CHARLIE DEDERICH for narcotics addicts, continues to get the spotlight. Already men­tioned as the subject for a forthcoming mo\-ic, it also benefits from the proceeds of some highly publicized physical culture courses taught in HoUy­vfood by singer-dancer Eartha Kitt, who believes strongly in the movement. 
1936 

Joseph J. Waldron 70 BUck Rock Road Yardlcy, Pennsylvania 
From the Alumni Office: \VILUAM L. JACOBS, living in Frederick. Md., with his wife, Irene, and two daughters, has been appointed Assistant Scientific Director at the U.S. Anny Biological Laboratories, Fort Dctrick, Md. Bill has been at Ft. Detrick since 1955, first as a biological warfare engineer, and then as assistant chief. Program Coordination Ofiice. JOHN AV. KIRSH %1,-as named general manager of the Hull Hotel in California, He is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Los Angeles Hotel-Restaurant Employer-Union ^Velfa^e Fund, first \ice-prcsidcnt of the Southern California Hotel .Association, and a past president of the Bonifaces of L.A. 
Silver Jubilee Reunion June 14-15-16 

1938 
Bumie Bauer 1139 Western Avenue South Bend 25, Ind. 
10... 10... 10... 10... 10 . . . Blast Off! ... . $10.00, that is, right away to BILL RILEY, Class Treasurer, 1st National Bank of East Chicago, Ind., or if you believe in diversifying your invest­ments, to NEI.SON \'OGEL, Reunion Finance Chairman, Box 208, South Bend, Ind. Tlie §10.00 is your prc-registration for our 25th Reunion next June in case you ha^xn't heard. .\nd apparently a lot of you haven*t heard because we haven't heard from you. Sooo, right now slip that $10.00 check into the mail so we can put the deposit on the ice for a real cool get-together next June. That takes care of your New Year's Resolution No. 1, Right! 
Who*s already said they're coming? BOB THARINGER, the ^Vauwatosa, ;Vis., silent one now li\-ing in Hopkins, Minn., promises to come. Bob sells packaging materials for Milprint in four surrounding states %vhen he's not running Little League baseball, football and hockey and at­tending the nccessar\- PTA groups that having seven children entitles one to. Bob has two daughters in college, a boy in high school who is goalie on the hockey team, another boy, 13, and girls, 13, 10 and 8. 
The Honorable WILLIAM *T-Bonc" .\fAHONEY wrote on U. S. Embass>* stationerx* from Ghana that if he, his %vife and 714 children sur\-ivc a Christmas holiday in Rome, he hopes to be at tlie reunion where he ^vould gladly lead all the old trackmen in some commemorative calisthenics. Start training, JOHNNY FRANCIS, ED BERNARD, PETE SHEEHAN, and HAL L.ANGTOX, ED MANN and PAUL PSIK {of the high hurdles). I'll even join that part where you lay flat and 
— well, that's far enough. Father ANTHONY GOMES will be on liand (with holv oils) as will Father JOE RACE and Father JACK ANTON. Father Gomes has be=n pastor of Our Lady of the Angels, Fall River, Mass.. since last year. From N.D. he went to St. Bernard's Seminary in Rochester, N.Y., and also studied in Portugal before being ordained in 1942. Maybe Father Tony can travel out to the reunion with Father PHIL LUCUT, C.S.C., who is nearby at Stonehill Col­lege (the Notre Dame of the East), North Easton, Mass. Father Phil crisscrossed the country for years raising funds for the Holy Cross Foreign Missions before his present job as Director of Placement at Stonehill. 
ED \\'RAPP, who gave the impression that "A" was the only mark gii-cn in accounting — an im­pression that didn't last however when Prof. Chizek's corrector (Was that you, OTTO SCHERER?) got to my papers — says his wife 
THOMAS W. FLYNN, '35 Former Hawaiian Eye, No Beachcomber He 
Completing his term in January as presi­dent of the Hawaiian Bar Association, Thomas Fl>*nn continues as N.D. Foundation governor in the 50th state after more than 
and family of three girls and two boys will have 
to be excused during reunion time. Ed, who studied 
and taught business and accounting at both N.D. 
and Har\-ard and also serxcd in the Na^y (all, 
no doubt, with "vigah"), now is executive wcc­
president of Automotive Engineering Laboratory in 

Stamford, Conn. 
J.ACK "Foreign Trade" ZERBST, now in New York with Union Carbide Corporation after some interesting years in their India and South American offices, hopes to do a lot of trading of tales, tall and otherwise, at the reunion. Send in the 10 pesos, please, Senor Jack. 
ED HUMMER, running out of scenery in Ohio, moved to Estes Park, Colorado, to pursue his paint­ing avocation, which he lets his law practice in­terrupt only occasionally. Ed will take time off to brush up on bis classmates' actiWcies the past quarter century. Ed studied art under EMIL JACQUES on a scholarship at N.D. and has ex­hibited extensively. Ed's wife, Ellen Rac, daughter Sharyn, a freshman at Colorado U., and son Ed Jr., in high scliool, are enthralled so much with Colorado in the one year thc>-'vc been there that they believe only a Silver Anniversary reunion could lure their Dad away. Confirm that resolution to join us, Ed, by sending in your prc-registration check now. We guarantee a few scenes in the Rocknc you won't find in the Rockies. 
FRANK DELANEY, sales manager for t!ic Na­tional Biscuit Co., flew in from Burlington, Iowa, in his cookie airplane, or did he call it his Biscuit Becclicraft, and said he would be here in June regardless of how the cookie crumbles, *'by cracker-y." Wonderful, but help us raise some dough now by sending yours in now, eh, Frank? 
At the Michigan State game I saw Dr. JACK LUNDGREN, the old, but young enough to be the current, basketball manager, who said it was the first game he has seen at N.D. in 25 years. "You call this a game?" asked Father JOE RACE sit­ting behind him as Saimes made the scoreboard run behind like the stock market ticker tape on Black Monday. "Wait till Iowa," said some char­acter who obviously had been in the com. We did, and we're glad because our Joe really brought his boys around the second half of the season. For de­tails how — attend the reunion. 
The following have either volunteered or been 
20 years as a lawyer and leading citizen of 
Hawaii. He has served as president and 
spark plug of the Islands' active Notre Dame 
Club and worked tirelessly to encourage Ha­
waiian enrollments at Our Lady's School. 
After graduation in Commerce, Tom went to De Paul University Law School in Chi­cago. He was graduated with a J.D. degree, cum laude, in 1939, ranking second in a class of about 120. 
The young law>-er was appointed a special agent in the F.B.I, in April of 1941 and was sent to Honolulu just before the Japa­nese attack on Pearl Harbor. He married Ruth Duay in Honolulu during the war, and the couple made up their minds that "this island paradise" would be their per­manent home. 
Tom and Ruth have a daughter, Marie, who is now a junior at St. Mary's College of Notre Dame. 
In addition to his recent term as president of the Bar Association of Hawaii, Tom has been serving as president of the Honolulu Catholic Men's Luncheon Club and the Hawaii chapter of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick. His law practice is supplemented by the presidenc>- of a local savings and loan association. He is a member of the Pacific Club and various civic organizations in Honolulu. 
To paraphrase some recent TV titles, Tom is a former Hawaiian Eye whose Adventures in Paradise persuaded him to Follow the Sun and dwell among The Islanders—but defi­nitely not as a Beachcomber, 
volunteered for, army style, as area reunion pro­
moters to bring busloads of '38crs back to the 
campus. GEORGE "Vigah-was-my-word-Iong-beforc­
him" HOWARD and JOHNNY "I-made-sccond­
basc-Mith-Bauer's-glove" BRADDOCK, ^Vashington, 
D.C.; PHIL "Rifleman" B.\YER, W. Va.; JOHN 
"The real Buffalo of hbtorj" McKENDRY, Buffalo, 
N.Y.; JOHN "Make-mine-peanutbutter" JEHLE, 
East St. Louis; JOHN "No-Tcxan-is" POORE, Dal­
las: JACK "Stands-for-Moncy" SOLON, Conn.; 
PAUL "Us-small-men-had-a-chance-in-basketball-in­
our-day" NOWAK, Florida; DON "Good-news'* 
CURRIER, Detroit; TOM "Somcday-the-Trojans­
wiU4ieat-N.D. - and - v.in-the-National-Champioosiup'* 
CROWLEY, Calif.; NICK "Scoop" LAMBERTO, 
Iowa; PAUL "No-rclation-to-HoH-ard*e\*en-tIiough­
our-bank-accounts-are-stmilar" HUGHES, Flint; 

JERRY •"Nothing-wrohg-in-raising-just-a-Iitt!e" KANE, Seattle; OWEN "Now-don'i-call-me-Sugar" KANE, Aurora and outer Chicago, 111.; JOSEPH D. "5tands-for-D>Tiamic-but-I-fight-it" DINEEN, Herkimer, N.Y. (quota, 2 bus loads); PAUL "Just-wait-until-you-5ee-our>GoIden Triangle" ANDER­SON, Pitt. Further volunteers will be drafted and announced next issue. 
Just to prove that some members of the Class have taken the President (of the United States, of course) seriously, the following have moved to New Frontiers: BOB DOYLE from Loves Park, 111., to North Platte, Neb.; TOM QUINLAND from Calif, to his resort **The Lconmarick," New Preston, Conn.; ROY KLECKA from South Bend to Phoenbc, Ariz.; JOHN FOX from Naval War College, Ne\\-port, R.I., to Buffalo, N.Y.; DAN COCHRAN from Wheeling, W. Va., to San Fran­cisco; JOHN TOBIN from Lewiston, Maine, to W. Barrington, R.I.; GEORGE KER^VIN from home­toxvn Waverly, Iowa, where Kerwin's Clothing store was "the" store, to Las Cruccs, New ^fcxIco. 
We were sorry to hear of the death of JOHN PLOUFF's mother in November. John lives in Indianapolis. 
We were happy to hear that JOHN MURPHY's son Dennis, who played end at N.D. the past three years, was chosen for the North-South Shrine Football game. 
Wc will all be happy if you will send your pre­registration chccki in to Bill or Nels. Now, Pulleecze! 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 
1939 
James N. Motschall Singer-Motschall Corp. ^ 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
THOMAS J. KALMAN wrote to me many moons 

• ago from Uniontown, Pa., where he is an attorney and Stale Senator. He and his wife, Clare, have three children, Mary Ann, Kalman and Maureen.  Legislative matters really keep Tom busy, but he is planning on attending our next class reunion. 
DANIEL A. TOBIN, M.D., is a ph^-sician and surgeon in Sacramento, Calif., where he lives with his wife and four bo>'5. Dr. Tobin is California  delegate to the American Academy of General Prac­tice and Director of the Academy of General 
> Practice. He would like to hear from any Notre Dame M.D.'s. AVILLIAM H. RICKE, lives in Orlando, Fla.,  where he is the owner of Orlando Tools, Inc. Bill ^vrites he has met very few Notre Dame men in that area, but [eeU there must be enough around to start a club. He would like to hear from CHUCK REDDY, HAROLD BLAKEMEN and BILL AHERN. Thanks, Bill, for the fine sample of your product you enclosed in your letter to me. 
DANIEL C. SHEEDV Is in the advertising business in Buffalo, N.Y., where he lives with his wife, Alice, and six children. Dan wrote he missed the last reunion but talked to CHUCK NAGEL and 
•JOE RYAN and got a full report. . . , "It must have been quite a wing-ding. . ." Dan is a golfer and claims he beat Sam Sncad once when Sam was more or less hung-over. 
LOUIS A. RADELET lives in Merrick, Long Island, with his wife Grace plus eight, John. Joseph, , Ann, Mike, Tim, David, Steven, and Kevin. Louis is the director of national program de%'elopmcnt, National Conference of Christians and Jews. He also 
> taught a graduate seminar in the Sociology Depart­ment at Notre Dame a couple of summers ago. 
EDWARD M. BROSCOE wrote me from Syra­cuse, N.Y., where he Is principal of the elementary and junior high school. Unfortunately school is open till the end of June and Ed has missed our reunions. He would like to hear from PAUL KELL. CHARLES E. \VHITE is a claim adjuster for Ohio Casualty Insurance Co. In Jolict, 111. Charles and his wife, Margaret, have a son In the Air Force and three daughters. They have been busy looking over colleges for their oldest daughter. 
EDWARD K. GRIMES, an aero engineer—re­search and development for the U.S. Air Force, lives in Falls Church, Va., with his wife, Eleanor, and two children. Ed has been attending the In­dustrial College of Armed Forces in Washington and he also made a two-week trip to Paris, Brus­sels, and Stuttgart. Ed says he hasn't made plans for the next reunion, 'cause he has icached the age where it is more prudent to live each day as it comes. 
FRANK X. GARTLAND, JR., Is a foundry ex­

- ecutive in Marion, Ind., where he lives with his wife Constance and their sLx children, Mary, Pat­rick, Thomas, Joseph, Michael (now a Junior at Notre Dame), and Francis (now attending Seattle University). Frank would like to hear from BOB RENDLEN and MIKE MONGOVEN. 
FltANCIS M. PAYNE, JR., Is an attorney in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, where he lives with his wife and seven children. The last time on campus Francis noticed a few changes made around the northeast corner. He no longer could recognize our old cross country 5-miIe route, except the last leg of that route which went through Dog Town. ROBERT F. WILSON, wrote me from South Bend, Ind., where he is chief engineer for the Hermaseal Co. He and his wife, Margaret, have three children. Bob Is active in the St. Joseph Valley Notre Dame Club. He would like to hear from CECIL or LEFTY JORDAN. 
EDWARD F. SIMONICH is athletic director and coach at Montana School of Mines In Butte, Mont., where he lives with his wjfc Cecilia and six cliildren. Ed would like to hear from MAX BURNELL and BING BINKOWSKI. 
HARRY J. SCHROEDER, JR., wrote to me from Madison, Iowa, where he Is a salesman for Bankers Life Co. Harrj- and wife Betty have three daugh­ters, the oldest now attending college in Mississippi. 
JOSEPH L. MCDONALD, JR., is the owner of a retail pharmacy in Rumford, R.I., where he lives with his wife, Mar>'. Mac writes he had a great time at the last reunion and Is looking fonrard to our next one. He would like to hear from EARL BROWN, BOB SCALLEY, JUMBO SNY­DER, AL KOIFER and ART WOODS. 
LAWRENCE  D. BENEDICT, '39 
Airkcm Inc's Ainvick to Larry (or Dick) 

Aii^vick air fresheners, once a staple of every comedian's repertory* of allusions, have been a household word since the develop­ment of the Air^vick formula by Airkem, 
RALPH F. WACHTER, wrote to mc long ago 

with news of a new arr^-al, a son, which makes it 
two bo^-s and a girl. Paul and his family live in 
Frederick, Md., where he is a biochemist in \-irus 
research. He would like to hear from JAMES 
GERTH MEYERS and TOM BARNETT. 
JA^!ES A. JOHNSON, M.D., is an orthopedic 

surgeon in Colorado Springs, Colo., where he lives 
u-tih his wife and four children, Nancy, Kate, 
Jimmy and Cornelia. Jim is 5ccrctar>' and treasurer 
of the Colorado Springs Notre Dame Club, and he 
would like to hear from J.\CK DYER and PETE 
MARTLV. 
WILLL\.^f J. METR^\ILER is engineering asso­ciate at Esso Research in Baton Rouge, La., where he lives with his wife Ann and five children. Bill would like to hear from any lonesome classmate or friend. 
DANIEL P. FALSIONI is an attorney in Lock-port, N.Y., where he lives with his wife Vicki and two daughters, Julie .Ann and Paula Jane. Dan is past president of the Niagara County Bar .Asso­ciation and is also active in the Notre Dame Club of Buffalo. 
ROLAND A. MARTIN is general advertising manager for the Fond du Lac Commonwealth Reporter in Fond du Lac, Wise, where he and his wife, Bctiy, have two sons, Luke and Nicholas. Last time Roland was on campus was in October of 1960. 
From the Alumni OfHcc; THO.M.AS B. HOG.AN has been appointed to the Board of Trustees of Pace College. Tom is associated with Haskins & Sells, which currently lists 54 Notre Dame employees. The Miami Beach Federal Savings and Loan /Vssociation announced the elevation of A. LOUIS BROWN, JR., to their newly created post of ex­ecutive vice-president. He will continue to head the Association's mortgage division. Lou is also president of the Miami Beach Rotary Club and on the board of governors of South Miami Hospital. Retiring as FBI chief in New York City, HAR­VEY FOSTER, a guard on the football team in *36-'37, is now working In Phoenix for the Dallas Smith Co. In an inicr\*iew concerning his new job and past experiences, Har\cy spoke with en­thusiasm about his election in '52 as national president of the N.D. .Alumni Association. 
Notre 
Inc., in 1943. But for the past 20 years Air-wick products have been maiketed by other companies, first by Seeman Brothers and since 1958 by the Lever Brothers Company. 
On January 2 of this year, Airkem began its own consumer marketmg operations for the first time, having acquired all domestic rights to Airwick from Lever Brothers. The company announced formation of Airwick Brands, Inc., a subsidiary to market Airwick and rdated new household products within the United States. Elected president and di­rector of Ainvick Brands, Inc., with head­quarters in New York City, was Lawrence 
D. Benedict, veteran advertising and market­ing executive and a former senior product manager for Lever Brothers. 
Lawrence Dickerson Benedict, called both "Larry" and "Dick" in his interhall football days, joined the Atlanta, Ga., sales office of 
U.S. Gypsum Co. after graduation.. From World War II service he went into advertis­ing and in 1948 was elected secretary of the .\tlanta N.D. Club. He moved to New York in 1949 with Compton Advertising, Inc., and took the account executive route in food and cleanser marketing-advertising to the vice-presidency of Dancer, Fitzgerald, Sample, Inc., and Donahue & Coe before joining Lever Brothers. 
.As president of Airwick Brands, Larry heads all consumer marketing activities for Airkem in the U.S. The company will spend more than §1,000,000 this year for adver­tising and promotion to support the market­ing and sales program. 
Larry lives in Tarrytown, N.Y. 

The Holy Cross Fathers have taken over the publication of the TODAY magazine for young adults. JA^fES F. BURNS, who was editor o£ TODAY, has become managing editor of the AVE M.ARIA. 
1940 
James G. Bronn 
144 East HA Street 
New York, New York 
From the Alumni Office: Notre Dame recently received a substantial gift in the name of JOHN D. GAVAN from the Con­necticut General Life Insurance Co., the first life insurance company in the nation to bave a matchins grants program. Thanks both to John and bis farsighted firm. 
1941 
James F. Spellman 
7 East 42nd Street 
New York 17, New York 
By the time you read this, the holidays will have become history. Your scribe hopes that you had a joyous Christmas and New Year. I have much to report on the "dues" activity. Some of you wish to know who authorized the collection of same. If you will review the ALUMNUS published im­mediately after the 1961 Reunion, you will see that your classmates voted to assess 0 a year for the five years between the 1961 and the 1966 re­unions. I am carrying out that mandate. As was stated in \-arious ALUMNUS issues, the establish­ment of a 1966 Fund will assist our Class not only in offering a siu'table program for our silver get* together, but also will permit us to carry out some worthwhile mission to be decided on by the class committee, such as a scholarship, or a memorial to our departed classmates, or any other desirable activity. If you have any ideas of your own, please communicate them to me, and I will publish same for all to read and consider. 
Dame Alumnus, Feb,-MaTch, 1963 
In lieu of issuing cards for ducs-paid Class mem­bers, I will publish herewith^ cutoff date Decem­ber 13th, the names and amounts paid to date. Fully paid ($25): XUDDALENA, BURKE (John). LAPILUSA, BELDEN, HOWLEY, REIS, KELLY (Dan), KORTH, SPALDING. CARTY, GAL­LAGHER (C,R.), GARTLAXD, SHOU\'LlX, STACK (Dan), HARTUNG (Dr.), \aGXOS (Dr.), MORTEL, GILLESPIE, SCHREIBER, and HICKEY. Paid 510: GOTTROX. Paid $5: BAR­RES, BROUSSARD, HAWES, KAMM, RYAN (Dr. E. J.), HURST, SPEQA, \\'HITE (J. A.). NAGEL, KUHN, COLBERT, DILLON, CL.\RKE 
(S. R.), L.ANGLOIS, O'BRIEN (J. D.). SCHLAF­LY, OLU^ROS, McDEVnr, H.VMMER, BOYLE 
(R. W.), LINK (Dr.), WELLY, MURPHY (J. W.). CURTIS (J. B.), GUILTINAN, L.\NG, MARTIN (E.), and SASS. If you arc statistically minded, you will sec tliat a compilation of the above comes to a total of 5650. Not bad for a start. Please remember that I will NOT republish any name, but will include all subsequent pa>*mcnts in future issues of the .ALUMNUS. I hope that we can hear from all the Class between now and 1966. 

One happy result of tlic drive for dues is the inclusion of notes from some of the Class. DAN KELLY, from Syracuse, writes that he looks forward to my column. Tlianfcs, Dan. I will defi­nitely look you up if I get to your dly. TOM REIS, of St. Paul, promises to f:all me when he next visits New York. I'll be waiting, Tom. BOB HOUXEY expected to be in Manhattan the end of January. Don't forget, \Tsitors, I am at MU 2-W98. BILL HAWES, of Grecn\-illc, Pa., writes, "Happy to enclose my dues. Hope you gel a good response from the class. May get out this summer to see if I can get my eldest son registered for 19&}. Say hello to AL PERRINE." Thanks, Bill. Good luck on your boy. HOWIE KORTH of Aaxico Airlines, Miami, says that evcr>'thing is going fine in sunny Florida. Howie has considerable contract work for the Air Force, and u-as kept real bus>' during the Cuban crisis. His airline utilizes DCs, c:arr>'ing cargo and passengers be­tween California and Cape Canaveral. Houie and his missus were on the campus for the Michigan State game, and enjoyed a family reunion at the same time. He met TOM CARROLL, his Walsh Hall associate. Tom has changed from insurance .to selling prefabricated homes. Howie also spent some time with our PR. TOM O'DONNELL. DAN STACK, a United Airlines pilot, regrets that he >%-a5n't able to call me as the company is not keeping Detroit crews in N.Y. overnight. Dan thinks the five-year dues' item is good. Me, too, Danny. Will look for you when I board your nice planes. HAL BARRES wants to know what I propose to do with the monies you arc sending. Many things, Hal, but I won't know until the committee decides. Hal is head of the plumbing and heating business that his father began 55 years ago, and has been witli it since leaving the Air Corps in 1945. He is married and has an clcven­ycar-old daughter, Meg. Hal sees some of the class now and then in Cleveland. He has not been able to get back to a reunion. Hope vou can make the 25th, Hal. JOHNNY MORTEL says he will see us at the next reunion, if not before. Bring 
others. Big John! 
A most welcome letter, dated September 12tli, from DR. WALTER J. BRENNAN of Alexandria, Va., says that ^Valt had recovered from an opera­tion and is fine now. He has seen JOE MUL­QUEEN occasionally in Washington. Joe, on one \-isit, had HOWIE KORTH with him. ^Valt likes my idea of pbnning NOW for the '66 Reunion, and will be there. Thanks, Walt. Will look fonvard to seeing you and the others. DAN DAHILL sends a nice long note from the Senate of West Virginia. He is moWng his offices to 211 Main St., Logan, West Va. Danny and I had breakfast on Sunday morning of the '61 reunion. It was most pleasant chatting with my old Corijy Hall workmate. Dan met BILL HOYNE at White Sulphur Springs in October and beat him at golf. Our illustrious Danny is a member of the Senate until 1965, and beyond that he has no conjecture. \Vill expect a free lunch at the Senate, Dahill old bean, when I ^isit. You can round up as many classmates for the 25th as you corralled votes in an election as your contribution to the cause!! JOE GUILTINAN, located right here in Gotham, has been promising to have lunch with AL PERRINE and me since our 15th Reunion!! Joe's son is a freshman at N.D., and Joe attended tlie Iowa game. Who was sitting right in front of Mr. Guiltinan — MIKE LAMBERT and his wife. Joe says he will call me when Mike comes to the big tow*n, and maybe we can actually find time to have lunch together. Joe, 
ANTARCTIC MASS was celebrated by Father Hesburgh for isolated personnel at South Pole Station, Antarctica, on his recent \is\t to the southernmost point on the globe. The Notre Dame president was a guest of U.S. Navy "Operation Deepfreeze," observing logistics for American scientific investigations conducted on the icy continent. 
you are so close to my office that you could hit it with a stone!!! 
One last note about your old secretarj'. I was married again, on November 10, to Eve Gunther, in Hastings. We live in Bronx\ille, at 1360 Midland -Avenue. We have just returned from the beautiful island of Jamaica, where it doesn't snow or get cold. 
How is that deep snow doing out there in South Bend? Keep the dues coming, and the correspondence, too. 
From the .\Iumni Office: Shame on JIM SPELLMAN for burying such auspicious neu'5 as his marriage in a late para­graph. Congrats and best wishes to Jim and Eve. ROBERT B. THOMPSON has been appointed assistant cashier of the Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit. He joined the bank in 1959 and is now llWng in Inkster, Midi., with wife and son Danny. 
1942 
William M. Hickey 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 
From the .Alumni Office: Received an interesting bulletin on "Notre Dame Men and the Newman Apostolate" from FATHER RICHARD BUTLER, O.P., whose fourth book, "God on the Secular Campus," will be published in .April, Tlie subject of the bulletin was the in­creasing number of Catholic students on secular campuses. "In 1962 the Bishops of the United States confirmed the establishment of the National Newman Apostolate to care for half a million stu­dents on secular campuses. A federation of New­man Clubs had existed since 1931, and had been a part of the National Catholic Welfare Conference since 1941. But in 1962 the Church in the United States erased the simple 'club' image of this im­portant and essential apostolic work and incor­porated the progress of these organizations, over 
900 of them, into a broad apostolic mission directed towards the entire secular academic community." It continued: *'Notrc Dame proudly figures promi­nently in this momentous transition. The present Episcopal Moderator of the Newman Apostolate 
is the Most Reverend PAUL J. HALLINAN ('32), Archbishop of Atlanta. . . . Present National Chaplain of the newly formed Newman Apostolate is Fr. Richard Butler , . . former director of the Aquinas Neuinan Center at the University of New Mexico." 
.Another item received in this office, this time in the field of science, was the appointment of DR. JOSEPH R. FELDMEIER as Director of Phiico Corporation's Scientific Laborator>'. He has made his home in Blue Bell, Pa., with his wife and five children since joining Phiico in July, 1960. 
TwenKeth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 
1943 
Jack Wiggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Crescenta, Calif. 
Notes from the Southern Cal game: At the pre­game rally, the pepper mill Impresario, DUD SMITH, was reminiscing with BOB POHL, '41, brother of M3er DICK POHL. At the game I saw DICK KELLY and his wife who were enjoying a visit to Southern California, having left behind the chilly weather of Tcrre Haute. Dick is plan­ning a big weekend on campus for the 20-year reunion. 
FRANK HERBERT writes from his offices at the Atlantic Montlily that he wants to announce plans for his retirement from that organization since It took the column 15 years to announce his ap­pointment as circulation manager! Frank figures that the retirement announcement should hit the print just about in time to coincide with his leav­ing the journal. I must chide Editor John Laughltn for this since it was an Alumni Office insert. Frank took in the Navy game but was disappointed to have missed classmates after the affair after having journeyed down from Boston. Frank sends along the news that FRANK COMFORTl is now living in Rumford, R.I. Comforti still is in the business of financing college education. Is that a "learn now and pay later" plan? 
CHARLIE BUTLER has left Dallas for Youngs­town, Ohio, where he moves as Sales Manager of pressed steel for Commercial Shearing & Stamping. Charlie has been with the firm for 15 years. The 

34 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Marck, 1963 
Butlers added their ninth child (scoreboard: 5 
girls, 4 bo>3) on their 17th wedding anniversary. 
One of the Butler sons is attending St. Vincent 
dePaul Seminary in Beaumont, Texas. Charlie saw 
BILL UNGASHICK in Kansas City recently. The 
Ungashicks have six children. 
And now, friends, a word from the sponsor — 
Let's make the 20th Reunion on the weekend 
of June 14-13-16 a whopper! Take out the Class 
Roster which you received last fall and pick out 
the names of five friends. Drop them a card tell­
ing them you'll be there and plan on seeing them 
at the Reunion. This might be one way to insure 
a colossal attendance and a ^vhalc of a week­
end on campus reminiscing about the campus da>'s 
and checking the campus as it is todav. See vou 
June 14-15-16! 
From the Alumni Office: As mentioned in the '47 column, JOHN Mc-H.ALE, president of the Milu-auUec Braves, has bought 90 per cent of his baseball team along with sK other young men. Recalling Memorial Day of 1947 \fcHale said: "It was a great dayj ma>-be symbolic. I had gone to Notre Dame on a football scholarship, and was starting center against Anay in MO. t grew to love the school. When I first joined the Braves as general manager, I bought a home on Notre Dame Boulevard. "Yet even with my football association, my favorite sport was baseball. I dreamed of playing in the major leagues. So you appreciate the thrill I compounded on Memorial Day in *47: getting the diploma, and hitting those two homers. It was really a day to remember." JACK WIGGINS and the Class hope to sec Mac aboard at the 2Qth Anniversary' Reunion June 14-16. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Burlington Ave. Bradley Beach, N. J. 
FRANK VIGNOLA is now in his second term as president of the Chicago Retail Furniture Asso­ciation and is national president of the Naval Reser\'e .\ssociation of the 9th Nav'al District. Be­tween operating the Vignola Furniture Company in River Forest, Illinois, and participating in many Naval Reserve activities, Frank is devoting much time to lectures on "Civil Defense" and "Responsi­bilities for Freedom." His business incidentally has grown from one store and one employee in 1950 to a main store in River Forest, a downtown Chicago branch, one in Glenvicw, a warehouse in Elmwood Park and 62 employees. He and Beverly have three sons aiming for Notre Dame. 
DR. PHIL CLARKE is a member of the in­ternal medicine staff of the Denver Clinic. 
It was good to hear from BOB METZLER of Kansas City, who, with his brother, operates an insurance business and manages to keep busy at home with five young ones. 
SAM WING reports status quo in Dallas with his Venetian blind and interior shutter concern. 
DICK DOERMER reports in from Fort Wayne that the Indiana Bank and Trust Company, of which he is president, is still solvent. 
We were happy to learn that everything is well with TOM BRENNAN, who is practicing law in Houston, Texas, and a note from another lawyer, JACK TERRY", in Syracuse, reports his recent. election as a member of the New York State Legislature. Jack previously ser\*ed two and one-half years as assistant secretary to the governor and then resigned to assume private practice a year ago. In the recent elections he was able to unseat a Democratic incumbent. Jack reports see­ing JERRY O'REILLY on trips to New York. 
An annual report from ED CtVSHM.AN rcveab he is still on the faculty at Catholic University and is busy writing and composing. 
The Column begs your indulgence in taking a few moments to fill in your Secretary on your latest movements, etc. A note would be appreciated. 
From the Alumni Office: JOHN T. ^XHITELY, formerly vice-president of Ameracc Corp., has been elected its president. The new regional OEM sales manager for the Central Division for Tung-Sol Electric Inc., Melrose Park, III., is PAUL H. HEIMANN. Paul joined Tung-Sol in 1960. Henow resides at 263 Middaugh Road. Clarendon Hills, III. 
ALUMNI 
Have you read the 
SCHOLASTIC MAGAZINE 
in the last 5, 10, 15 years? 
Yes, it's still available to you, that some weekly publication you received while at Notre Dame. 
Information and such things as 
•
 Current Sporting Events 

•
 Academic and Building Programs 

•
 Challenging Editorials 

•
 Changing Administrative Policies 

•
 Feature Articles 


are still the predominant theme. Simply return the convenient blank below and become an in­tegral part of Notre Dame in "spirit" if not in "person"! 
Please enter my one-year sub­scription to the Scholastic Maga­zine. Enclosed please find . . . n money order, Q check, in the amount of $5.00. 
Name 
Address 
City, State 
Send to: 
Circulation Department Scholastic Magazine Main Building Notre Dame, Indiana 
1946 
Peter P. Richinski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Connecticut 
From the Alumni OfSce: 
THOMAS C. DEVINE has been promoted to market development manager of National Adver­tising Co.» a suhsidiary o£ Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co., responsible for special projects relating to the development of highway advertising, shopping center netu'ork ads and point-of-purchase advertising. 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bentlcy Lane South Bend, Indiana 
VERNAL VERSIFICATION This year's springtime, now inchoate Brings us closer, don'tcha know it. To our Silver Jubilee some nine years hence We'll have been out five and 20, And our wand'ring Presidentc Should be lunching with us *47 gents. 
Thus don't think me prematurish 
When I ask with trace of flourish 
And quite mindful of ho^v far this lies ahead: 
What's your guess (don't call me dirty) . . . 
Can we muster more than 30 
When we munch the featured brunch with 
FATHER TED? ! 
BLASTS FROM THE POOPDECK Thanks to Doris and BOB MULCAHY, Pat and PAUL LIBASSI, Peg and BILL PECK. Marjorie and ELMER MATTHEWS, and BROTHER IVAN DOLAN, C.S.C., for Christmas greetings. Pat LiBassi writes: ".. . We are all fine, though lost a child at birth last December. God always knows best. ^Vc hated to miss the reunion in June, but summers — at least for the next few years — are out, vacationwise, for Paul, as he is never buster. We did make a quick trip to S.B. in October for the Michigan State game, but time really flew by. .. . A big thank you for the enjoyable notes about the class of '47.*' Slany of you will remember BILL ELSEN, who headed the now-defunct speech department in our senior year: The annual Christmas rundown on his large (seven children) family includes the news that he has been promoted to associate professorial lecturer at George Washington U. and continues to hold down his full-time job with the State Dcpt. JACK ZILLY was back for the Iowa game. He's still an assistant coach at Brown in Providence, 
R. I., and the team's 2-6-1 mark for 1962 indicates they're building character out there . . . too. He often sees JIM MELLO, who is working with underpriWIegcd boys of the area. 
Our treasurer, JOE SHARP, steps up to the presidency of the Indiana Assn. of CP.Vs May 1; the organization comprises more than 800 members. He was, incidentally, chairman of the annual South Bend Shrine banquet for area participants in the East-West and North-South tilts this year, and one of the former players who showed for the evening was FRED ROVAI, who played in the '47 East-AV'est mectintr along with JOHN AL\­STR.\NGELO and the late BOB SKOGLUND. Fred works for a wholesale liquor distributor out of Hammond, covering pretty nearly the entire northern quarter of the state. 
Another lad in the same business (with Michiana Beverage), ED BALL, reports Wanita gave birth to 7i4-pountI Patrick Stephen Nov. 24; that evens matters out, 2-2. Ed would like to hear from Di\N D.ANIS. How 'bout it, Dan . . . what's new around Arlington Heights? 
It's no%v FATHER ED RUETZ; he was ordained Dec. 23 and has returned to Catholic U. for the final half year of Theology before receiving his first assignment. Please remember us all in your prayers once in a while, Father. 
Congratulations are due JOHN McH.\L£, who has proceeded in just about 15 years from a good-field-no-hit first baseman with the Tigera to general manager and part o^vner of the Milwaukee Braves. The prediction is ventured that even greater honors lie ahead. 

LEX McCOY, who apparently deplored the Los 
Notre Dame AlumnuSj Feb.-March, 1963 35 
Angeles winters, moved recently to Kokorao to get 
a taste of real winter. IVhat brings you back to 
HoosierUnd, Lex? 
JIM SATTLER, ex of Kirkwood, Mo., has 

moved into the bailiwick of JOHN MULLEN and 
FRANK GILHOOLEY. Toledo, but — as if to 
compensate — Ohio lost a classmate when BILL 
COAKLE Y moved from CIe\*cland to Pound Ridge, 
N. Y. A bit more activity- has been noted in the Buckeye state: BROTHER PEDRO HAERING, C.S.C., has been transferred from Archbishop Hoban H. S. in Akron to the Catholic School Board in Cleveland. 
N'ERN GUDKESE has descried the frigid wastes 

of Blair, Ncbr., in favor of the balmy air of Eau 
Gallic (pronounced *'Oh Golly!"). Fla, 
Most recent club director^' indicates Dr. BILL DUNN is president of the Phoenix alumni group; DICK HOHLER, Sandusk>-; and JUAN MOEL­LER, Quito, Ecuador. Also, NEIL FOWLER chairman of the Boston club's scJiolarship fund; BILL H.\SSETT most active in Central New York (Syracuse); EMIL SLOVAK, FRED JONES, and BROTHER KERIC DEVER, C.S.C., a terrific trio in the Miami organization; and ED SWEENEY one of Rvc executive advisorj- members of the Mohawk Vallej* club. It is most heartening to hear of such club participation, for that is the means by which we best retain our pipeline with the campus. 
DESAFLVALE And 50, as we undulate out the door to the throb of a bossa no\-a beat to make room for the '48 report, wc repeat our standing invitation to write, phone, wire, appear in person, wigAvag, send smoke signals, or otherwise get through to us so we know more about what you've done, what you're doing (that which can be subjected to public scrutiny), and what mischief youVe planning to effect in the days and years ahead. Wc would like to extend our s\-mpathy to JO­SEPH M. BYRNE, III, whose father (sec Obitu­ar\' Column) died Januarv- 21st. 
Rfteenth Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1948 
John Dcfant George A. Pflaum, Publisher, Inc. 38 West Fifth Street Dayton 2, Ohio 
From the Alumni OAice: Congratulations to DICK S El DEL and his brother REV. THOMAS E. SEIDEL, C.S.C., '53, on being a part of the family of Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Seidel of Minneapolis, named bv the 
N.C.W.C. as "Catholic Family of the Year." Dick, liWng at 9 Coffee Run Lane, Westminster, Wilming­ton, Del., is development and service manager of duPont's poI>Tncr products division. He and Audrej* have two sons and a daughter. Same to sports announcer GEORGE CONNOR, who married Sue Dungan two da>*s after Christmas and the same day became a director of Mid%vcst Bank & Trust, Elm-wood Park, m. 
Oass ViccPccsldcat THOAfAS J. AfcaAFFERY made the neu-s out in his native Vallejo, Calif. Tom was named acting postmaster of Vallejo, ap­propriately enough on Christmas Eve. For the past three years he had been an administrative assistant with the California Senate. A veteran of 12 years on his count>''s Democratic Central Committee, Tom has been on Governor Pat Brou-n's w-ater pollution control board since 1939 and worked on the suc­cessful campaign of Senator Clair Engle. Who sa>-s student politics don't pay off? 
ALBERT J. LaMERE is now area sales super­visor in the stiburban area sales organization of Illinois Bell Telephone. Al lives in Munster, Ind., but has been operating out of Chicago for Illinois Bell since graduation in sales, commercial and directory, meanwhile picking up an M.B.A. at Northwestern. Most recently he had managed the Homewood office and served as a commercial staff super^^r. Like McCafTciy, he's a Democratic Central Committee member in Lake Count>- and is nou' city chairman for Munster. 'Wife Dorothy teaches at Bbhop Noll High in Hammond, Ind., and the X<a&Iercs have seven daughters. 
A Icissin* cousin in Boston, Alass., spelling his name without the double capital, DICK LAMERE has received another profile in depth from the Bos­ton Traveler, with which newspaper he is labor 
FR. A. J. HEINZER, CS.C, '41, director of radio for the Family Theater (left), is snapped with Dean of Students Fr. Leonard Collins at the Los Angeles Club's Com­munion breakfast in December, whicii was also addressed by Fr. Joyce (not shoun). 
editor and an ace reporter. Spotlighted before for Iiis award-winning waj-s, Dick reveals how he got his scoops on the landing of Mayflower JI (bribery*), the Andrea Dona disaster (stowing away on a Coast Guard cutter) and the Cambridge police investigation (an anon>'mou$ telephone tip). He didn^t mention his secret ingredients, ncu-s sense and sheer guts, qualities lacking in the new breed of newsman. Dick and Louise live in Canton, ^lass., and have four children. 
Since the 1949 Column has already gone to press, this department w-ill mourn another prc-communi­cation arts journalist who was well known to '-(Scrs and who made quite a name in the press before his untimely death on Januar>' 23. J.AMES C KLOCKENKEMPER was a United Press Interna­tional regional executive in Detroit when he died from the efTects of an automobile accident a few days earlier. He had risen from reporter in Spring­field's Illinois Stale Journal to Springfield and Detroit bureau chief for UPI and served for a year as auto editor in Detroit before becoming a top exec. Sympathy of all postu*ar journalism class­mates to Jim's ^vife Patricia and his three young daughters, Jeannic, Barbara and Christine; also to his parents in Batchtown, 111., and his six brotlicrs. 
1949 
John Walker Wayne, Illinois 
From the Alumni OiHcc: 
L, J. (JIM) LEDERLE has been promoted to district manager in the field sales organization of Rubbermaid Inc., Wooster, C ; he's been with the company in territorial sales since graduation. 
In an address before the Newman Club of Nevada Southern University in December, Las Vegas' JUDGE JOHN MO\VBRAY dreu- some striking parallels between the life of England's St. Tliomas More and the need for dedicated laymen in political life and public scr\'ice today. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, New Jersey 
From the Alumni Oifice: Perhaps in line for a gold trophy in the paternity sweepstakes, EDWARD J. SEXTON con­tributes to the Alumni Fund and writes: "Since graduating .. . I have got 10 children and a big mortgage." Ed would like to hear from the rest of his classmates concerning their family statistics. His address is R.R. 5, Box 459c2, Indianapolis, Ind. Among the new faculty appointments of the Col­lege of New Rodiclle u-as MICHAEL MEANEY, now assistant professor of philosophy. GENE CANIPANALE and wife Joan have a tandem bio'cle in Marion, Ind., for themselves 
and their children, Beth, Tony, Carol Ann and Chris. Still with the Marion public schools, Gene also teaches at Taylor University. The Campanales sent Christmas greetings describing a trip into Mexico last summer by %%-ay of the national parks and most of the American West. 
1951 
Robert Klingenberger 3405 Thames Dr. Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: 
EDWARD F. MOSKAL, previously with the Otis £Ie\-ator Co., has been appointed marketing manager of Na\y simulation equipment for the ACF Electronics division of .ACF Industries, Inc. Ed, wife, and three children are living in New-Market, .N.J. 
1952 
Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W. Va. 
From the .Alumni Office: 

Although flattered that the ALUMNUS had chosen him for one of the Spotlights, JOHN T. ELSON felt "bound to point out" one inaccurao*. The article in Life Magazine on Pope John was written by his father. Sorrj-, John! 
Netvs has reached m that HE-VRY J. ^VANNER has been named Operations Supcr\'isor for Illinois Bell Telephone Co. in Springfield. 
Tenth Anniversaiy Reunion June 14-15-16 
1953 

David A. McEIvain 
2328 Alexander Terr. Homewood, Illinois 
As reunion time draws near, I hope that all of you who can will join in the Tenth Anniversary of our matriculation from the Golden Dome. All who attended the five-year reunion will attest to the fine time had by all on that occasion. 
A note from BOB RUST in Greensburg, Ind., reveals that he is managing his dad's variety store there, and raising his family of three bo>'5 and a girl. Others Bob has seen in the last year or so include JIM PFOHL, JOHN PORTA, and ED 0»CONNOR. VIC RILEY clieckcd in from Miami, '' xvherc he has recently assumed a new position as manager of the Miami office of Bowles, Andrews, and TouTie, actuaries and financial consultants. Vic and his wife Marilyn have five children, from eighteen months to eight years. 
DON ROSS has recently become assistant director 

of the ^oire Dame Foundation located in Chicago, t 
and he recently organized a two-hour telephone blitz in behalf of the Notre Dame Challenge pro­
gram. Participants included JIM JfALOOLEY, BOB BERNER, DON BERGMAN, BOB HULL, JERRV 0*CONNOR, JERRV KEELEV, and my-. self. ' 
BILL TEOLI is a patent attorney with General Electric in Schenectady and has three boys. TOM THORNTON is a residential contractor in Bir­mingham, and is on the baby-a-year plan — five A so far. HARRY SHAY is backfield coach at Southern Illinois University and is also teaching healthy and physical education there. BOB SCHO-* SINSKI is an attorney with Scribner, Hall, and Casey in Washington, D.C., and was married just last May. BENEDICT SUPLICK is a biochemist with Smith, Kline and French Laboratories in Glcnside, Pa. TOM SCULLY is a buyer with J. C. ^ Penne>- in New York, has three children. DJCK ROGERS has given up his Nav>* ^vings after seven < years and is now a broker irith Merrill Lyncli in Garden City, L.I., N. Y. Dick has two daughters. JOHN RONCONE is an attorney with the '' 
securities division of the Secretary of State's office 
in Chicago. LARRY TARPEY is an assistant pro­fessor of commerce at the University of Kentucky, has four children. JOE STADLER, also with four 
36 Notre Dam€ Alumnus, Feb.-Marchj 1963 
children, is vice-president of tlie Superior Bronze Corp. in Erie. Pa. CHARLIE STIAfMING is a computer systems analyst with Indiana Bell and with his wife leads a high school Great Books club in Indianapolis. Charlie also has among his 
^ accomplishments the designation of Life Master bridge player. 
^ FRANK STEIF is assistant controller of the Mai:navox plant in Urbana, Illinois. He and wife Shirley have two girls and a boy. BOB STRALEY is a Production Supcr\'isor with Western Electric in Bethlehem, Pa., and has three children. BILL 
y SAUM is an education planning representative with IBM in Endicott, X. Y.. is married and has a one­year-old daughter. DAVE SPONSELLER is now 
' an assistant professor in Xolre Dame's department of metallurgical ensinccring and material science. 
f Dave earned his Ph.D. at Micliigan in June, 1962. Dr. PAUL QUINN has a dental practice in Alex­andria, Va., and is also a faculty member at the 
-' Georgetown Dental School. BOB SEBOLD is a sales engineer with Republic Aviation in Hunting-
f ton. N. Y., and has four bo>'s. one girl. JIM RYAN is hotel manager at the Murrav Hotel in Silver City, N. Mex. BUD STUHLDREHER is treasurer of Kydronics, Inc., in Indianapolis; he is married with one child. SNAKE SMITH is di­rector of public relations for the Ohio State Bar .Association in Columbus, has two children and one more expected. VINCE TULLY is an M.D. 
• in general practice in Honesdale, Pa. PAUL RUPP is vice-president of Rupp Bros. Auto Parts in Chillicothe, Mo., and his family currently numbers five. Paul received the Jaycces' D.S.A. award in 1960 and has been active in Chamber of Commerce and Red Cross activities. JOHN STOEPLER is an assistant professor of law at the University of Toledo. 
FRANK SHYNE is a communications sales repre­sentative with 'i;\c\\' England Tel & Tel in Scituatc, Mass. There are five little Shyncs at his house. Dr. BILL Sf\NTORO is chief psychiatric resident at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in HolI>*wood and will commence psvchiatric practice in L.A. in June, 1963. JACK SHAY earned his M.B.A. from Hariard in '56, is now an engineer with the Mitre Corp. in Carlblc, Mass. BOB SCARBECK is subcontract administrator w*iih Bcndix in Mishawaka. working on the Talos and Typhon surface-to-air missile program for the Naxy. ED RAQUE \& president of Raquc's Town & Countr>- Food Service In Louis­vnlle, also has five daughters to keep him busy. PAT RILEY is practicing law in El Dorado, Calif., with the firm of Beverly & Riley. PAT ROSS is super\-ising principal of the Orange Glen High School in Escondido, Calif. E.\RL SNIDER is manager of the K & K Supply Company in Mon­roe, Michigan. DAVE ROGERS is material control manager with Radiation Instrument in Melrose Park. III. 
KER\VIN FULTON was in town several weeks ago, with his wife Betty, to attend a txx seminar here in Chicago. Ker^vin is an attorney in Den-I'er and ivill become a first-time father early in 1963. Heard \ia the grapevine that BILL DEMPSEY moved into this area from Rochester, but there is no further confirmation of that information. How about it. Bill? 
Tliat*s the end of report for this time. I'll ex­pect to see all of you at the reunion this June; tr>* to make it. 
From the Alumni OfEcc: 
TIic wife of JOHN U'. HOUCK has written us their new address — 14 Clyde Rd., Watertown 72, Mass. John is now on leave from our College of Bus. Adm. and studying in the graduate program at Har\"ard Law School on a Danforth Grant. 
Also informing us of his new Pans address (Maison Notre-Dame de Sainle-Croix, 58, rue N.-D. dcs Champs, Paris) was FATHER EUGENE GORSKI, C.S.C. Obviously hungr>" for news, he, FATHER D. JAMES SULLIVAN, CS.C. and FATHER GEORGE COULON, CS.C. were writ­ing for a CARE package of campus SCHO­LASTICS. 
His other item of news was that FATHER ROBERT NOGOSEK, CS.C , formerly of Paris, is now located at the Collcgio di Santa Cruce, Via Aurelia Antica, 391, Roma, Italia. 
1954 
Milton J. Bcaudinc 76 East Court Dr. Decatur, lUinois 
The late ARCH WARD, in his *'Wake of the News" column now penned by DAVID CONDON 
ROME — In an ecumenical huddle at the Scoglio di Frisio (from left), Archlnshop Lawrence L. Graner, CS.C, of Dacca, East Palustan, and Bishop Vincent McCauIcy, CS.C, of Fort Portal, Uganda, arc proudly impressed as Bishop Thomas Manning, O.F.M., of Bolivia, S.A., tells of ordaining his first priest, a Holy Gross seminarian fnnn Chile who is two years older than Bishop Manning himself. 
in the Chicago "Tribune," used to write, "The 
Wake Depends — Help — Upon Its Friends — . Help." Well if a journalist like Arch Ward needed 
help to fill out Iiis columns, then figure how much 
more help 'ole Milty, an engineer, needs. After all, 
this article isn't supposed to be fiction, but rather 
it's supposed to based on facts only YOU can 
supply. 
Having received only one letter, a birth an­nouncement, since the last deadline, this column will be regrctlablv short. Received great news from TonI and CHRIS MALONE. A ion^ Michael John Malone, was born to them on Oct. II, 1962. After the Pitt.-N.D. game I saw PHIL VAN HUFFEL having a few at the Oliver Hotel Touch­down Bar. Phil and Jean have 3 children and live at 699 Perkingswood, Warren, Ohio. Phil (bless you) reports the following: HARRY H.\DLOCK and Immy were expecting their 7th cliild in No­vember. Harr>* is an M.D. in Houston, Pa. JOHN SHEEDY and Tim(?) have four children. John is a Na\y doctor. -MIKE McGR.ATH and Patty Lou are living in Harrisburg, Pa., where Mike is a doctor also (headshrinkcr). BILL RICHARD and wife JoAnn arc busy making bricks at the Owensboro Brick Co., Owensboro, Ky. They also found time enough to have three children. Before the Iow*a game I had the real pleasure of run­ning into "Touchdown" TO.M McHUGH. Tom, OS coach of Toledo Central High School had a great lO-O season with his team ranking No. 1 in Ohio. Toledo Central's known as the "Irish." It looks as though at least Tom McHugh re­members what the "Irish" used to do .. . . lO-O, No. 1. Also coaching in Toledo, Tom reports, is MARTY VIETH. Also ran into IVALT DUSCHKA who has a most amazing pair of binoculars. It seems one side holds ginger ale and the other side ... . Also saw FRED M.ANGIALARDI at the Pilt. game (Fred's still in Rockford, 111.), and ROCK MORRISEY at the Iowa game. NED SEI.M is being transferred to Wausaw, Wis., soon after Jan. 1. He's with Crestline, makers of better windows. These articles depend-help upon their friends-help. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 7344 N. Ridge Blvd. Chicago 45, Illinois 
IN^cII, it seems that you lucky rcadcts vrM be deprived of my smiling picture from now on. It seems that my engraving fell apart very quickly, and the budget couldn't stand another one. It's really OK with me because that was my "Holly­^vood" pose, and even my bride didn't recognize mc. Guys would come up to me on the street and tell mc that the editor must have put some­one else's picture in my column. (That's what you get for having a picture taken without your glasses.) 
Two old buddies have come through with good letters this time to share the "letter of the Q'CIC** award. Since DAVE METZ was in joumalisia with me, I'll give FRED ECKART the spotlight first. 
Fred reports that he once again is a civilian. His aspirations for a career in the Supply Corps of the Navy didn't materialize, and now he is administrative assistant to the president of Marine Studios at Marineland of Florida. If I interpret this correctly, Fred feeds the fish five times a day at the St. Augustine water wonderland, smokes big* Tampa cigars, and collects big money to finance his flings in the stock market. 
^Vhen I received the "Tampa Tummy's" letter, 

he ^^'as anxiously a\vaiting the third addition to the 
family. He has a daughter and Fred III. Fred 
lives at RFD 1, Box 102, St. Augustine. 
Dave opened his letter by commenting that recent 

columns showed me to be a reporter without any­
thing to report. How true. Old Man. He fdt 
5orr>* for mc and sent along some newsnotes on 
the balding, tired men of '35. Before I forget, 
Dave is in charge of general news in the public 
relations department of Kodak in Rochester. K b 
address is 135 Ashbourne Rd. 
Now, on with Dave's bulletins. He \-acationed in San Francisco in September and $a.w WALLY CLARKE, whom Dave tabs as our answer to Rod Laver. Wally represents the Wilson Co. in the Bay area and, on occasion, doubles as a genial host at his Dad's "Smokehouse" restaurant on Polk Street. Dave says that the Clarke eaterr "features fine victuals, 'vigorous* drinks, and a warm welcome for N.D. grads." 
Dave ran into JOE McGRAW of Tulsa in Frisco. ("You remember Joe ^- he was voted the most alert AFROTC cadet of 1952-53.'*) Joe told him that PAT PADON \\-as last seen heading for Wyoming carrying a football and muttering gloomily over the prc-season forecasts. (I hope the four game winning streak eased the paJn.) 
JIM PORCARI, ED DEMPSEY and JOHN CASEY also live in Rochester. Dave reports that the four are producing future Notre Damers '*in depth." He writes, "We have two boys, the Demp­scy clan includes one airborne and one in the hangar, and John Casey and hb \vifc have too many to keep track of." John, drop mc a note with the latest count. You may have taken over the sweepstakes lead from DON YECKEL! 
The great capitalistic drive continues to move the class from north to south, and east to west. BILL YARIO moved from Cincinnati to 4013 St. Paul, Bcllwood, 111., just ivest of Chic^o. DICK CALLAHAN, who had been living in ^VinnJpeg, is back in the states and can be reached at 217 Woodley Dr., Alexandria, Va. Dr. BILL RODGERS, who was stationed at Great Lakes for some time, nmv is back at scenic Long Lane Farm, Line Lexington, Fa. SAM BUDNYK, who has sent some good prospects to N.D., has moved from his coaching spot in West Palm Beach to Cardinal Newman High School in Riviera Beach, Fla. Sounds tough, Sam! JOE SMITH took the big plunge and left the East and now resides at 4544 Gratiet Ave., Port Huron, &Gch. At abont the same time, WALT ZOTTER pulled out of 
"Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb,-March, 1963 37 
Port Huron for Detroit. He's at 13691 Park Crove. PASQUALE DI PASQUALE, the man with the poetic name, left the Kenned>-s' favorite state Sor Penns>*K'3nia. A card will reach him at 438 "W. Pittsburgh St., Grcenburg. 
I enjoyed talking with those of you I saw in South Bend, Madison and E%*anstDn during the football season . . . apologize to those of you I didn't recognize because of your expanding "waistlines and general wear and tear , . . and re­gret that I missed the majority of you due to the fact that a body only can be one place at a time. 
RUSS TOOHEY hosted a vcr^- swinging cock­
tail party before the Xorthwestem game, and 
rumor has it that some of the guests from this 

liass didn't make it to the stadium. Personally, 
I wished I had missed the whole game! Saw ED 

KELLY, TOM HAYES, DICK BEEMAN. BOB 
WING, GEORGE MEYERS, BOB DAHLEX, 

PETE BRYANT, JOHN AVTITHERS, PHIL 
SHERIDAN, JERRY BRANSFIELD, and JERRY 

PRASSAS among others that day, if my memor\­
ser\'es me. 

Incidentally, Mr. "Hard Guy Bachelor'* Prassas will match down the long aisle with Diane Head in April. Your golfing da>"s will be fewer an the future, Jerry. JERRY BRANSFIELD and his wife, Maureen, had a long pre-Chrislmas \'a­cation in Florida. Jcrr>' has alwax-s been in good shape, of course, and that explains why he has lieen so successful chasing those ambulances In the past year and picking up those big cases. 
STEVE REBORA was telling one and all at the Rockne Dinner of the Chicago Club about his new baby daughter, Ellen Marie. Also on hand was NEAL HALLORAN, Allstate's top agent, who reports that PHIL POWELL has been trans­ferred to Chicago by Sears. JIM GRIFFLV, who ihares a law office with DICK. BURKE, tells me that JOE SWIFT now Is teaching at Georgetown. A recent AT& T bulletin credits the Gits Mold­ing Corp. {JACK GITS, executive and star sales­man) with making a \'aluable contribution to the Telstar project. 
TOM GRODEN called the other day. He re­cently married Liz ^fcCorkle. They live in 'Wheel­ing, north of Chicago. Tom Is a chemist with the Portland Cement Association. JIM WELTZIEN, according to Tom, is with IBM, and DON FREUND Is an accountant in Elgin, III. 
BOB PHILLIPS received his ^fBA from Harvard Business School in 1961. Currently he is working at the Chemical Bank New York Trust. His address is 2411 Webb Ave., N.Y. 68, JACK PINTER and his wife now arc residents of Wisconsin. 
BOB GERVAIS, who is president of the Los Angeles Club, wrote me recently to solicit vour support for MORT GOODM.AN of L.A. for elec­tion to the National Alumni Board. Unfortunate­ly, my last column already had been filed. Inci­dentally, ED **Ox'' FOX is vice-president and a director of the L.A. club, I don't think Ed UTII ever return to the Windy City. 
Since this column Is being written on Dt-c. 13, don't feel badly if I don't acknowledge your Christmas card. It probably hasn't arrived yet. Among those that have arrived are those of JERRY HUGHES, FR.ANK BURKE, and JOE CONNOLLY. 
Here are a few more notes from my miscel­laneous file. LOUIS CENTTLIVRE Is in the Big City at 211 E. 18th St. JOHN DEIANEY has been receiving his mail at 158 McConnell Ave., Bayport, N.Y. DON "Mr. Music" GELS has a fancy address that even La\*Tence Wclk would envy — Home Lane, Greenwich, Conn. PAUL KRIENKE took the big leap from Florida to California — N,S.N. (No, Silly, No!???) Post Graduate School in Montere>-. JOHN SOR.\N'NO evened things up bv moving from Fresno to 214-B West St., Needham 94, Mass. BOB HA,\R.\HAN tias seen the light and moved from the garden Spot of the \vorld (South Bend, naturally!) to our fair city of Chicago. Right now our snow blowers are down there trying to find the roads in St. Joe County. JOHN O'SULLIV.AN has changed bis allegiance from the Hawkc\'cs to tlie Badgers and is located at 1110 S. lllth St.. West Allls, WIS. Dr. (or I should say Lt.) KEVIN O'DON-TiELL was at 92 Osprey Dr., Capcliart Housing Project, Groton, Conn., at last report. P.-VT Mc-GAHAN left Chicago for Columbus, Ind., where he lives at 1714 Washington. Another Califomian, BOB ESCHBACHER, has moved east. He's at 235 S. Harrison, East Orange, N.J. 
That's about it, gents (and you, too, girls), and I hope you have made a Nctv Year's resolution 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 
JOSEPH M. DUKERT, '51 Atoms & Antarctic, Rockets & Republicans 
Joe Dukert likes variety. 
His first book (an introduction to nuclear energ>' for young people and adults called Atompower) was published by Coward-McCann last fall while he was managing a congressional campaign. Now he is writing one about Antarctica, which he \'isited while working on a movie for Martin Marietta. 
Joe was an Air Force psjxhological war­fare officer during the Korean war, then worked as a newspaperman before winning a fellowship to the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Bo­logna. Italy. In 1956 he joined Martin's public relations staff and witnessed some of the earliest rocket launchings from Cape Canaveral. 
Joe and his wife, the former Virginia Linthicum of Baltimore, are both enthusi­astic Republicans. He was a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1960, and was elected vice-chairman of the Mary­land State Central Committee in 1962. 
Joe is a director and past vice-president of the Baltimore Jaycces. He directs the edu­cational program of the Baltimore Civic Opera and was business fund raising chair­man this year for Santa Claus .Anonymous which provided gift certificates for almost 17,000 children on welfare lists. 
He is now director of public relations for RIAS, a division of Martin Marietta de­voted to basic scientific research. 
to drop me at least one line this year. I'll be waiting! 
From the .Alumni Office: Now living in .New Vork City (250 E. 78lh St., 
N.Y. 21), GER.\LD T. SHE.\HAN is the Eastern Regional .Administrator for Enc>'clopacdia Britan­nica. 
BEN T. REIDV, Jr., was made an assistant cashier in the banking department of the Northern Trust Co.. Chicago. Ben obtained his master's degree at Har\-ard Business School. He lives with his wife and two daughters at 719 S. Bruncr St., Hinsdale. III. 

1963 
1956 
Alvin D. Vitt 4 Wind Rush Creek (West) St. Louis 41, Missouri 
At this \%Titing another year Is about to come 
to an end. A year which for many of you was 
a very eventful one. However, one reading this 
column might seriously doubt it. 
We know we have an outstanding class and I 
think it's time wc tell others of our achievements. 
Surely it cannot take you more than five minutes 
— some less—to put together a good story. Let us hear from you soon. 
Best wishes (retroactively) for a very Merr>* Christmas and a Happy and Holy New Year. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOHN J. PHELAN's new address, 1709 Brad­
shaw Dr., St. Louis 36, Mo., was sent along with 
news of a daughter, Mary Grace, bom Oct. 20, 
I960. (Could John possibly mean 1962?) 
RICHARD H. RUPP,^ writing us from George­
town where he Is an instructor In English, hap­
pily reports his forthcoming June activities. He 
expects to receive his Ph.D. in English from 
Indiana Universit>' and definitely expects to marr\' 
Miss Mary Grove in Frederick, Md. 
CHARLES T. CASALE, product manager of 
large-scale s>-stems at Control Data Corp., pre­
sented a paper entitled "Planning the 3600" at 
the December 5th meeting of the Fall' Joint Com­
puter Conference in Philadelphia, Charles was 
responsible for the design and development of the 
Control Data 3600 Computer. 
THOM.AS G. BENNETT has been named pro­
motion director of "The Buffalo Courier-Express." 
Tom has been a member of the promotion depart­
ment since 1959, and recently has been writing a 
weekly column "Scope" for the financial section. 
He and his wife live in Kenmorc, N.Y., with 
their son, Thomas Jr. 
Captain JOHN T. McINTIRE of Zanesville, 
Ohio, was selected a distinguished graduate in his 
class of more than 800 United States Air Force 
officers at the Squadron Officer School, MaxAvell 
AFB, Ala. John was selected "in recognition of 
his high moral character, academic achievement, 
physical stamina and professional competence." He 
and his wife, Sally, will be moving to Webb .^FB, 
Tex., because of his reassignment. 
1957 
John P. McMcel 
30 E. 42nd St. 
New York 17, N.Y. 
Heard from Fran Carideo that her husband and our classmate JIM CARIDEO has entered his third and final year at Fordham Law School. Our congratulations to Jim for being the father of two girls and one boy while placing in the No. 4 spot In his law class. Praycis are requested for the father of classmate JOHN SLEVIN, who passed away last November; the Class of '57 expresses its 5>'mpathy to John and his family. . . . Re­ceived a letter from the mother of classmate CHARLES (BUTCH) HICKMAN, %vho Informs us that "Butch" is presently residing in Munich, Germany, •where he is engaged in German lelc­\ision. As a matter of fact, she reports that he had the male lead In a German film for TV. Butch is still single and wishes to stay in Europe, probably England, for a few more years to get the nccessar>' polish and training to be a good actor. . . . TOM McNULTY reports that he is working for Minnesota Mining & Sifg. as a repre­sentative in their magnetic division in Milwaukee. Tom is also represented by third son Dannv, bom on Sept. 30, 1962. 
DICK POLLENZ and his wife Virginia are now liiing in Seattle, where Dick is studying for his master's in meteorology at the University of Wash­ington VINCE DOOLEY is In Cleveland in a 
.coaching position. Vince is starting a team of his own with three children so far. . . . MIKE BOYLE and his \vife Kay arc living in Pittsburgh, where Mike is actively engaged in the practice of law. . . . DAN BEGGY is also an attorney in Pittsburgh. . . . TOM "SQUEEKS" PRENDER­GAST is in the marketing diWsion of Quaker Oats and is based in Chicago. . . . JERRY BECHERT and his wife are now liwng in Cincinnati where Jerry Is employed by Rycrson Steel, . . . JACK SHEEDY Is still single and li\-ing in Pittsburgh while working for Lincoln Life. . . . MIKE CAN­TANZARO is married and has one child. Mike is employed in the purcliasing department of Martin Co. in Baltimore and is an attorney. . . . RICH JACOBS is married and practicing law. . . . L/\RRY BEDFORD is living in Dallas and from last observation Is still very much unattached. . . . JACK AMTUCKI is now one of the top salesmen with R. V. Welch Associates, Inc., in Indianapolis. This is also the place of employment for our esteemed classmate, BILL McGOWAN. . . . BOB ECKLUND has moved back to Chicago from Gary and is still "baching" it on the North Side. .. . As a matter of fact. Bob has assumed the role of Chicago's male Perle Mcsta. 

JACK C/\SEY is still living in New York, and tt'ports have it that he is doing an outstanding job for Chicago Show Printing. . . . K. J. PHELAX is moving to Washington, D.C., where IiL- lias accepted a position with the government. . . . BOB COOK is living in Chicago, and wc last heard he was working for the Oliver Cor­poration. . . . TOM PALIGNOFF has moved from Fort AV'aync to Old Bridge, X.J,, and is working in the executive offices of J, C. Penney in .\cw York City. . . . EARL HOGAX and his wife are living in Chicago, where Earl is now a Lt.O-g.) in the U.S. Xav>-. . . . DOX MURR.W has been promoted to a captain and is now at the U3.ASC Dental Clinic in St. Louis. .. . I have been informed about the whereabouts oE the fol­lowing but have no other information, only that: DON GLENTOX is now living in South Bend; BILL TOLLE is residing in Indianapolis; JOE TAFT is in Oakland, Calif.; and PAT BR.\D­FORD has moved from Houston to Inglewood, Calif. 
That's at! for now. Thanks to Fran Carideo, Tom McNulty and Mrs. Hickman for sending me the information about their activities. I hope it proves contagious to the rest of the class. I am making a special offer of a travel guide booklet to Europe by yours truly. It is the actual true life adventures of my activities in Dublin, London, Rome, Copenhagen, Oslo, and cities of Germany, Sweden and other exotic lands last summer. It's a limited offer and I regret not being able to serve you through the U.S. Post Office Dcpt. Special rate for members of the Class of '57 is $100 per book — what a bargain! 
From the Alumni Office: 
A summer session coed and talented actress in the experimental plays directed by Natalie While on the campus, SISTER AURY ROMAN (OBREMSKA), S.S.N.D. (M.A.), is stationed in Guam (St. Francis Convent, Box 668, Yona, Guam, M.I.) and wrote her former mentor about the destruction of the Notre Dame Sisters' new school there in the recent tj-phoon: ".. . I was so shocked by the loss of our library* of 2,600 books . . . that I'm still numb inside. To me, books are almost like people. The sight of our roofless library with all those books piled up pcII-mell on the floor in one soggy, *vaterloggcd, smelly mess was like a mass graveyard." Even in her own personal library* only one volume miraculously survived, "Notre Dame—100 Years" by REV. ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C., '20. ". . . The other books were thrown clear of the cabinet, but this one ^vas sheltered underneath collapsed shelves and the fallen ceiling over that, so there was a dr>' area there. When the Marine who w*as helping me salvage found this book he put it right into my hands with a smile, realizing it was a sole sur­vivor. . . .*' Hoping to start a Books-for-Guam landslide. Miss White sent Sister a copy of "The Screen Arts" (by Prof. ED FISCHER, '37), an excerpt from which Sister had admired in last October's ALUMNUS. (Classmates, how about sending Sister those old textbooks?) 
A. R. "GUS" L.\UGIER was absent from his 5-year Class Reunion because the company he works for, Cameron Iron Works, Inc., transferred him from Houston, Tex., to Buenos Aires, Argen­tina, in June of 1962. Tliat seems like a perfectly respectable excuse. Gus expects to be in Buenos i'urcs for the next four years with his wife Helen, a native of Athens, Greece, whom he married in 1958, and their I/a-year-old daughter. Although "disappointed with the way the Irish have been doing" (obviously last October!!!), he would still appreciate news from his classmates. His address is Cameron Iron Works, Talcahuano 736, 2do Piso, Buenos Aires, Argentina, S.A. 
ROBERT T. GALLA's brother sends us news of Bob since his graduation. Bob obtained his ALS. in physics at the U. of Illinois in '59, worked for the Research Laboratories Division of the Bcn­dix Corp. in Detroit for three years, and recently joined the Collins Radio Co. in Cedar Rapids, 
BOB LALLY, '50, Cleveland guard of the national chanip era, sent this shot of his five linemen and five cheerleaders to show-he is still out for championships. Bob, a roofing contractor, scouts the Cleveland area with Pat Canny, Frank Gaul, and others. 
Iowa. He, his wife Barbra and three children, Theresa, Christopher, and Matthew, are now living at 335 18th St., S.E., Cedar Rapids. 
After graduating from Officer Training School at Lackland AFB, Tex., JOHN P. DcWERTH was commissioned a 2nd lieutenant in the USAF. He is being reassigned to Keeslcr AFB, Miss., for training as an electronic data machine maintenance officer. 
Congratulations arc in order for THOXLAS F. GRODEX, JR. who married Elizabeth McCorkle, S.M.C., '57, on April 23, 1962. Tom is an asso­ciate research chemist for the Portland Cement Co. His new address is 103 Deborah Lane, Wheeling, 111. 
Captain WILLIAM J. THOMPSON participated in special ceremonies at Malstrom AFB, Mont., in which the nation*s first operational complex ^ for launching the Minutcman Intercontinental Ballistic Missile was turned over to the Strategic Air Com­mand and placed on alert. 
Hfih Anniversary Reunion June 14-15-16 

1958 
Arthur L. Roule, Jr. 
1709 Indiana Avenue LaPorte, Indiana 
Wc are happy to report that, for this first Issue for 1963, the news hopper is amply filled; so much so, in fact, that our concern this time is not with the scarcity of news but rather with the scar­city of space. But, instead of complaining of this happy difficulty, wc choose to make the most of it, in accordance with our new motto, "All the news that fits, we print." Without further ado, here it is. 
Notes received In the mail reveal that LOU MORGAN was married on October 27, 1962, to Miss Jacqueline Ann Wolf of Goldcndale, Wis.; that GEORGE CONNOLLY and wife Sharon be­came the parents, on September 9, 1962, of Bridget Mar>- Connolly In Royal Oak, Mich.; and that JACK RADZY.MIXSKI and wife Nancy welcomed the arri\-al, on September 5, 1962, of Stephanie EUen, their first child. Jack is with the Marine Corps, stationed at Vuma, Ariz., where he Is Ass't. Provost Ntarshal. His wife Is the former Xancy Burditt of South Bend. 
As you knoiv, our annual after-game reunion 

was held last October 20 at the Hotel Hofi'mann 
in South Bend following the Michigan State game. 
Once again this event was ver>' well attended and 
was greatly enjoyed, according to the testimony 
of all those present. Of course, much news was 
gathered, and here, with apologies for the terse 
style of reporting, is much of it. GEORGE GLAS­
GOW is working at Western Electric in Columbus, 
O-; he is married and the father of two girls. 

Cindy (2) and Marie (I). CHARLEY KITZ Is. now with Ford Motor Co. in Dearborn, Mich.; has two children, Alicia and Michael. JIM ENGELHARDT is working for Detroit Edison and also has two children, Danny and Julie. 
JOE FORNLKN v.as married last September ia Toronto. RON DENARDO is teaching in Michi­gan, is married and has one child. HANK DE. CALUWE is with Chr>-sler Corp. in Detroit and is working on his M.A. in automotive engineering. He has three daughters, Eileen {VA), Gail (V/a), and Laurie (3 mo.). 
SAM NIGRO not only attended the reunion on the 20th of October but he got engaged as well (during half-time no less) to Miss Sue Smith, a graduate nurse from Milwaukee. Sam graduated in October from Deep Sea Divers School of the USX and is now attending Submarine medicine school at New London, Conn. 
FRED GENOVESE is working for Thomas and Bctts Co. of Elizabeth, N.J., as a Sales Representa­tive. He is married to the former Maureen OWfeara. TOM KING is a brother at Dujarie Hall (X'.D.) and although unable to attend the reunion would like to hear from classmates. 
JACK ADAMS ^vas married in April of I%2, to Carol Van Hoven, and is noiv working in re­search and development with Du Pont in Louls­rille. CLAUDE HEATH recently completed law schcol and is now employed in Garden City, Kansas, in a local law firm. 
BILL PI£TR1ESL\K is living in Cleveland where he works for American Cyanlmld as Ass't. Regional Sales Mgr. 
HUGH McGUIRE was married on November 24, 1%2, to Mary Jane Wilson, a graduate of AVestem Michigan Univ. STEVE DRAGOS and wife Donna arc living in South Bend and expect their first offspring In February. 
ROCCO PUNTURERI recently finished his six months* army tour at Ft. Dbc, N.J., and is now practicing law \vith Wherry & Ketler, in Grove City, Pa. Roccu recently met Dave Link, who is with the General Counsel of the United States Government, and Is presently located in Washing­ton and is working on electronic legal research. 
GERRY PASTUL.\ and his wife, Paula, honey­mooned in Mexico after their Sept. 15th wedding. 
TOM HERRM.ANN, NLD., Is now in residency (surgical) at University Hospital, Ann Arbor, Mich. Tom is married and expecting his first child in .March. 
JOHN HIGGINS and wife, Pat, expect their 

third child in April. 
DICK SINNOTT is married to the former Mary Ann Ryan, and is living in Chicago where Dick is with the Central National Bank. They have two daughters—Maggie (2) and Betsy (1). 
ED CLAIR is now practicing law on L^alle 

Street in Chicago, is married to the former Pat 
Dwyer, and has one son, John Michael. 
KEN HEINEMANN is with Delco Radio in 

Kokomo, Ind. He attended the reunion with DON 
MACDONALD, who is in Production Control at 
Buick Motor Co., Flint, Mich. Both brought their 
wives to the gala event. 
JOE BISIGNANO is now the proud father of 

three daughters, Mary Pat, Christine and Therese. 
He is working at Des Moines, la., in the whole­
sale meat business. 
JOE KNOTT has three children, Joseph Jr., 

David and Jim, and is working for Wabash Chemi­
cal Corp. of Chicago. 
STAN TYLER is now Vice-President and Sales 

Manager of the Tyler Sales Company (wholesale 
beer distributor). Stan now has two daughters 
and a son. 
BOB REM M is %v-orking for .Aeronautical Sys­
tems Division, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, 

as a civilian electrical engineer. 
GEORGE BREEN is still single and is working 

for Westingtouse in Baltimore. 
BILL MEAGHER is also unmarried and em­

ployed by I.B.M. 
PAUL RADK E is married and also works for 

I.B.M. 
RAY ANDREW and wife Ruth Ann are living 
in X*ew York City where Ray works for Western 
Electric Company. 
JACK DAUGHTON was recently wed and is 
\vorking for Sagamo Electric Co. in Springfield, HI. 
JOHN BUTCHKO is married, has one child, 

and is employed by Standard Electric in Dayton. 
JOE WOOD is married and is working at 
Wright-Patterson. 
MICHAEL O'CONNOR is also employed by the 

Aeronautical Systems Division in Dayton. 
JACK KLIMEK is working for Hughes Air­
craft, is living in Los Angeles, and has twin sons. 
BOB SERAFIN is working for Armour Research, 
is married and has one daughter. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March, 1963 39 
RAY KUT2ENDORF b employed by Common­
•wealih Edison in Chicago and has two children. TRANK BROWN was married on December 29, 1962. 
AL ALLEN is now an account executive in Ne^v 
York. 
RON KOPER is now married and working at 
Xtpton Tea in Hoboken, X.J. 
RICH 0*DONNELL is still in Cleveland; is 
married to the former Jo Ann Walters, and is the 
father of one daughter, Kathleen. Rich is^ a 
research engineer at the American Gas Association. 
Jllkf O'NEILL is now working for Tcnex Paint, 
Newark, N.J. He received his M.B.A. from 
•Wharton in 1960. 
JACQUE HUBER was married to Miss Bonnie 
Bedford in August of 1961. They now have a son, 
bom June H, 1962, and are living in Cincinnati 
where Jack is with Procter fi: Gamble. 
Dr. and Mrs. JIM ESCH became parents of a 
son, Christopher, bom on April 9, 1962. Jim is 
interning at Cook County Hospital, Chicago, and 
plans to take a residcnc>- in orthopedic surgcr>*. 
Others interning at Cook County are WALT 
HUURMAN and PAT HOGAN. 
JOE BRIDE is now with Life Magazine, haWng 
recently been transferred from New York to Los 
Angeles. Joe's by-line appeared on the Scott Car­
penter story in Life Magazine last June. 
ROGER TOUGAS will be married in the spring 
to Pauline L'Abbie, of Grunville, R.I. 
JIM BRENNAN and his tvife Priscilla arc liring 
in Attlcboro, Mass, They have three children. 
BOB McGOVERN, wife Dee, and sons, Mike, 
Tom and Kevin, are still living in South Bend 
where Bob is a Special Education teacher. 
MIKE FITZPATRICK graduated from Southern 
California Law School in 1961, and is practicing 
law in Los Angeles. He is married and has two 
sons. 
PAT HUGHES is also a U.S.C. law graduate 
and is married to the former Sally Luke. 
BOB DEVINE is vrith the Oblatcs of St. 
Francis De Sales. He is now studying theo!og>­
at Hyattesville, Md. 
JOHN GLA\^N is married, has one daughter, 
and was practicing law in Rochester, New York, 
mitil he u-as called to active duty in the Army last 
March. DICK CARNEY and his wife became 
parcnu in October, 1962, of a son, Bernard Richard 
Carney II. JOHN McCRANK is teaching science 
in high school in Rochester, X.Y., and is working 
towards a master's degree. He v*'as married in 
August of 1959 and now has a son, aged 2, and 
a daughter, aged one. JERRY DAHLE has been 
working for the Insurance Company of North 
America in San Francisco since his release from 
the Navy in October of 1961, He and his wife, 
Helen, report the arrival of their first offspring, 
Michael, in Apnl of 1962. 
JOHN BURNS v%-as wed in July and is presently 
at the University of Vermont. JOHN DEWES 
and his wife are now living in Kokomo. DON 
BAIER is with Eastman Dillon Union Securities, 
an investment banking and stock brokerage firm 
in New York. He reports that MURRAY BROWN 
and GERRY BURNS are also in that locale. 
Murray is an institutional bond salesman vsith 
Hallgarten Sc Co., and Gerry is with Allied Chemi­
cal. 
PHIL THOMPSON was recently married and is 
employed by Bendix. AL FLORIN, father of two, 
has a position with Parson Ammonia in Clifton, 
N.J. 
BOB PIVONKA writes from Denver reporting that he is now in internship at Mercy Hospital, having graduated from University College Med School last June. He is married to the former Margaret Hessburg, and has two sons, Jim and Mark, with another expected soon. 
DICK NEMECHEK is employed by the Martin Company in Denver; is married and has two sons, Tim and Jack. ANDY CAPRA is married to the former Janet Murphy, has three daughters, Mary, Katherine and Brigid. LOU POZELNIK is married to^ the former Judy Cullerton, has two daughters, Micheic and Terry; and received his ^f.D. from the University of Colorado. He is currently intern­ing at Ireland Army Hospital, at Louisville. JIM SMITH is married, has two daughters and is living at Staten Island, N.Y., where he is a rescarcli anal>ist for J. Walter Tliompson Advertising Agency. 
ED BAUER is still single and is with American .^ r Lines in Chicago. BOB WATERS is presently stationed at EVTCUX Air Base in France, and is engaged in Air Force Intelligence. He is married to the former Nancy Smithe, of Chicago (sister of WALT SMITHE). 
Mrs. JOHN KEHOE writes on behalf of her husband, who is working for Reilly Tar & Chemical Company, of Indianapolis, as a research chemist. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Feb.-March, 
AFRICAN EQUATOR is spanned by American missionaries on the Uganda veldt, represented by Fr. Louis L. Meyer, CS.C , '41 (left), superior of Holy Cross priests in Butiti, and Mother M. Benedict, pro\*incial superior, Medical Mission Sisters. 
The>- have two sons, ^fark Stephen and Michael Francis. Mrs. PHIL VOGEL also saved her husband the trouble of writing by sending us a note reporting the arrival of their fourth child on August 15th, last, whose name is Dennis Francis. Phil is still vrith Phister & Vogel Tanning Co., Inc. 
A letter from JACK HOUGH informs us that Jack graduated from Harvard I*aw School in 1961; served for a year as a clerk in the Arizona Supreme Court, and is now practicing law in Mesa, Ariz., with the firm of Rhodes, Killian & Legg. Jack also reports that ^HKE BENCHOFF, who graduated from Columbia Law in 19GI is now awaiting the results of the .Arizona Bar exam, and is working for the Ramada Inns in Phoenix. 
JERRY ^L\LLOY slops in LaPorte now and then in line with his vvork as an insurance adjuster with General Adjustment Bureau of Micliigan City, Ind. Jerr>- is living in Gar^-. STEVE PENNEY is back in Gary working for American Marietta selling refractories to steel mills. BOB ECKLAXD, from Moline, is now in Gary and is employed by Linde Air Products. 
The last letter is from WALT SMITHE, who has recently been transferred back to the Chicago area from Phoenix. He is employed by General Electric and is with their computer division training cus­tomers in the use of computers and related devices. JOHN DI NARDO is currently with the S.E.C. in Chicago, after serving a clerkship with Judge Roger Kilcy in the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. DAN McINERNY was recently married and is living in Chicago, and BRUCE MALEK is in commercial real estate in Chicago. 
Tiiat takes care of the news for now. Your secretary may well be in the emplov-ment of Uncle Sam by the next time you read this column. Expecta­tions arc that the Air Force Judge Advocate General's Corps will be requiring my services with­in the next couple of months. 
From the Alumni Office: FRANK E. SMURLO. JR., who started his banking career as a teller in '.^8, has been elected assistant cashier of Tlic State National Bank of Conn. Frank recently received his master's degree from New York University. Army 2d Lt. KEVIN T. CONNELLY, of Hun­

2963 
tington, N.Y., completed the eight-week officer orientation course at The Armor Center, Fort Knox, Ky. 
FATHER BRIAN J. EGAN. O.S.B., president of St. Bernard College, was elected as president of the Conference of Church-Related Colleges in the South. Incidentally, he is reported to be the first Catholic priest to head the conference. Father Brian noted that modem advancements have made confonnity the accepted standard. "In an age of instant coffee, instant medicine and instant sleep, it becomes verv- easy to succumb to the lure of instant opinions on every subject." He feels that one of the most potential forces against "compul­sive mass conformism" arc the private church-related colleges. 
1959 
Dennis M. Nead 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 
Belated 1963 Greetings to all the members of '59 and best wishes for a prosperous year wht^her it be business, law school or the United States Army. Another year has slipped by us and just one more year from this June will be our first reunion — rather hard to believe, I'd say. Quite possibly in the near future area representatives will be appointed or at least asked to volunteer to help out in planning the affair in respect to at­tendance, rooms, etc The columns have been rather brief this year because the secretary hasn't written to too many people; however, I v%ish that those of you who haven't seen your name men­tioned in the Alumnus would drop me a line, be­cause other classmates would like to learn of your endeavors. 
Last June HARRY LEINENJVEBER's wife Gerry presented him with a baby girl, Jane Dunn, and this June if I am not mistaken it will be law school graduation time. DUNCAN LAVIGNE is a traveling salesman vrith the Brunswick Company; he and his wife Faye make their home in Hunting­ton, West Virginia, and quite frequently get into Cincinnati to visit Faye's parents. Their first addi­tion to the family was named Catherine Ann and was bom last midsummer. 
TERRY HARTIGAN has a little boy, Timothy, one year old, and is a consulting engineer for a firm in Chicago. JACK McGRATH received his master's degree from Carnegie Tech and is now with the Army Ordinance Corps in Detroit, Mich. JOHN DONOVAN is a stockbroker in the Crit­tenden Padcsta investment house in Chicago. 
ED GAUSELIN is doing part-time v%-ork and attending law school at Loyola in Chicago. DICK ZAPPALA is employed v^ith two other brothers in a law firm in the Zappala building in Pittsburgh. BRIAN FOLEY lives on the South Side of Chica­go v%ith his wife Carol and their two children; he works vrith John Donovan in the Crittenden Padesta investment house. 
JOHN LEAHY, the San Francisco hero and former anti-submarine officer, has one more year of law at Notre Dame if my memory serves me correctly. T*he school's next dorm will be built un­der the stadium in John's name. WILLI.AM W. RICE received his Master of Regional and City Planning degree from the University of Oklahoma. As for present employment, he h an urban planner at Oklahoma's Center of Urban and Regional Studies, which operates as a state agency doing general planning studies for Oklahoma communi­ties. Wiley ran into BILL SHERRY of Tulsa at the past N.D.-Oklahoma game in Norman. 
The class will be interested to know that JOE BAIRLEY is teadiing grade scliool at the Holy Cross Mission, Holy Cross, Alaska, and can be reached at that address. BILL DOWDALL was married September 8 last in Pittsburgh to Miss Mercedes Beachler of that city. They're living at 441 Tonawanda, New York, N.Y. 
Upon graduation TONY CIARAVINO entered the University of Detroit Law School, and he re­ceived his LL.B. in June, 1962. At present he is studying at N.Y.U. to get his master's degree in labor law. TOM TRINLEY is a chemical engi­neer in the DuPont Marshall Laboratory in Phil­adelphia, Pa. Tom and his wife Maureen have two children: Katie, Z'/n and Patrick Joseph, I'/j. They make their home at 63 Boxwood Lane, Levittou-n, N.J. 
GEORGE HAHN is still in the Nav^ at this writ­ing, awaiting discharge in February when he will take his leave for good; he has been stationed in Chicago and I've heard that his nautical efforts arc nearly nebulous but outside activities are All 

American. JACK ZABACK is li%*ing in Ashtabula, 
O.} and is in the funeral business. He is married 
to former Sue Kay Ridgeway of Ashtabula, and 
they have just been blessed with the birth of a 

baby boy. CHUCK QUEENAN and Marie Pcnotc 
Quecnan are still in the Navy, stationed at New­

port, R.I.; Chuck is also anxiously awaiting the 
termination of his tour of duty. 
PHIL MILLER has just bi-cn discharged honora­
bly from the Air Force; he, Joanne, and Scottic 

are all in the mortgage business in Cleveland. 
PETE SALSICH has started to feel political pangs 

again and is currently making his presence felt 
in the political scene in St. Louis. 
BOB BRENNAN is in New York working fur a 

lumber company. We usually associate lumber with 
the North Wotfds, hut I know Biib. RILEY 
MILLER and his wife are now the proud parents 
of three children. Riley is in the brokerage busi­
ness with Paine. Webber, Jaclcson & Curtis. TOM 
McIN*TYRE is currently writing for an ageno* in 
Cleveland (Grant Advertising Co.). He likes it 
vcrv well but hates gray flannel. 
LT. WILLIAM FLYNN recently accepted .T 

regular commission in the .\ir Force and 
is making the militar>' phase of accounting lii.s 
career, ser\-ing a three-year tour at Albrnok Air 
Force Base in the Canal Zone with his wife Patsy 
and their two children. TOM (TufTy) RYAN has 
advanced to business manager of the Calumet 
Branch of Minneapolis Honeywell. Since his tri­
umphant return from Memphis where he got his 
start, he has bought a home in Homewood, 111. 
Tom and wife Paula expect their third child early 
this year. JIM DOYLE works for Cincinnati Wel­
fare of the Blind and was married this past De­
cember I; Jim makes his home in Hyde Park. 
I hate to end this column on the tragic tone, 

but jiLst two months ago I received a letter from 
BILL BOURNE, '58, of New York, informing me 
that one of our classmates, RICHARD HORS* 
FALL of Riverside, Conn., was killed while land­
ing a jet fighter plane in Japan (Nov. 2). Dick 
had been a Marine pilot for the past two years 
and u'as a Ist lieutenant. He took off in his jet, 
radioed back to the tower that something was 
wrong with the plane and requested permission to 
return; as he was coming in and about to touch 
down, the plane cart-wheeled and that was the 
storv*. A Mass was sent tn Dick's parents from the 
Class of *59. and those of you who were Dick's 
friends (in fact the whole Class of '39), please 
remember tiini in your prayers. 
From the Alumni OlHce: The class's "show biz" representative, JERRY DODGE, recently starred in a segment of l.v.'s weekly series, **The Nurses." Jerrv* also worked in the recent musical "Take Me .Mong" with Jackie Gleason and as a dancer on the '*Ed Sulli­van Show." JOHN B. BELIVEAU is now in his second year at the Georgetown University Law Center, after receiving his M.B..A. from New York University last June. John is engaged to Miss Marv* L. Dolan, S.M.C.. 'GO. Received news of the whereabouts of J.\MES 
L. MERZ and JAMES WILLIAM .MARSHALL, JR. Jim Merz and his wife, Rose-Marie, have moved from N.Y.C. to 18 Bucna Vista Park, Cam­bridge, Mass. Our other alum, Jim Marshall, is a trainer with the Dcpt. of Phys. Ed. at the University of Minnesota. His home address is 2I0I E. River Terrace, Minneapolis. 
Army 2d Lt. JAMES E. SCHREINER, of Calu­met Cit>', III., has completed the eight-week oflicer orientation course at The Infantry School, Fort Benning, Ga. 
WALTER R. BERNARD. JR. has been ap­pointed industrial relations analyst for the Trans­mission and Chassis Division of Ford Motor Co. He and wife. Sue, arc living at II358 Whitcomb St., Detroit. 
1960 
John F. Geier 715 La Crosse Avenue Wilmcttc, niinois 
From the Alimmi Office: 
W. DENNIS SHAUL was elected president of the National Students Association. Dennis just com­pleted two years of study at Oxford University as a Rhodes scholar and planned to enter Harvard Grad School this fall. However, he has decided to delay 
W. DENNIS SHAUL, *60 After Oxford and Helsinki, NSA Leader 
The National Student -Association is in the forefront of the world battle against Com­munism, says Dennis Shaul. Since he was elected president of the controversial organ­ization last fall (defeating, incidentally, a candidate from Harx-ard in elections held at Ohio State), Denny has been defending the NSA against "extreme rightist groups" which he claims are attacking certain stands taken recently by the organization. 
A native of .-Vkron, O., Denny attended St. Vincent's High School there before com­ing to Notre Dame, where he won a Rhodes Scholarship. Last year, after completing two years of study in economics and histor>' at 0.\ford University, England, he led a group of American students who organized anti-Comniunist demonstrations at the Commu­nist Youth' Festix-al at Helsinki, Finland. Re­turning to the U.S., he postponed entering Harvard Law School until next fall so that he could assume the NSA presidency and ser\'c at national headquarters in Phila­delphia. 

The NSA, which includes the student councils of more than 400 colleges and uni­versities, favors Federal aid to education and was an early supporter of Algerian inde­pendence. The association has been critical of the House Un-.American Activities Com­mittee and suggested that its work be car­ried on by the Senate Judiciary Committee. Other stands taken by the NSA include: condemnation of racial discrimination: op­position to the Castro regime in Cuba; in­sistence upon the autonomy of West Berlin; and condemnation of the Hungarian govern­ment's restrictions on student thought and activity. 
Much NSA activity is specifically anti-Communist, Denny sa^-s, especially coopera­tive programs among Latin-American stu­dents. Other action promotes "community involvement" like volunteering to tutor un­derprivileged and retarded children. 
further study for a year in order to de\'ote full time to his NSA responsibilities. The NSA, note­worthy specifically for its anttcommunist work, is involved in a promotion of "community involve­ment/* such as helping underpri\-ileged and retarded children, Shaul said. 
Three news items from our men in the Army. WILLIAM C. TROY is currently stationed in Wuzz­burg, Germany. Second Lt. LOUIS M. ROMANO, who entered the Army last Sept., was assigned to Fitzsimons General Hospital in Denver, Colorado, as a supply control branch officer. Second Lt. THOMAS T. SHISHMAN recently completed the eight-week officer orientation course at The Chem­ical School. Fort McClellan, Ala. 
WILLIAM D. 0*HARA, JR., writes that he is a claim investigator for the Aetna Casualty and Surety Co. Bill married Mary McCabe. S.M.C., '61. in Sept. of 1960. They arc now living with their I7-month-old daughter. Margaret, at 4805 Cumnor Rd., Downers Grove. III. 
ROBERT F. LOGAN sent us his "review since graduation." After spending 8 months with The Norfolk Countr>* Trust Co., Bob joined the U.S. .•\rmy at Fort Dix. N.J.. where he renewed ac­quaintances with 2nd Lt. DAN McDONALD. After leaving the Army in *61, he joined I.B.M. in Pough­keepsie. N.Y. Bob and his new (June 16, 1962) wife, Geraldine, are expecting a third member of the family in April. 
CHARLES J. MANERI, JR., has returned to his position as senior accountant with Haskins &. Sells after completing his sue months active duty in the Army at Fort Sill. Okla. Charlie* engagement to Miss Judith M. Hart of Mt. Vernon, N.Y., ivai solemnized on Dec. 15. 1962, at St. Catherine's Church in Pelham. N.Y. For further Maner! family news sec the '61 Column. 
1961 
Nick Palihnich 
34 Dartmouth Road 
West Orange, N. J. 
TIic Christmas season passed again, bringing a joyful close to the year 1962. I sincerely hope it has been a very good one for each and every one of you. May '63 bring as much success and Iiappiness, if nut more. 

Top billing in this month's issue of the Alumnus goes to Louise and BOB SCARPITTO upon the announcement of their first-bom, Renec .Ann, on Nov. 25, 1962. Bob and I.ou spent Christmas In New Jersey, returning here after _Bob completed his second successful season in the A.F.L. with the Denver Broncos. **'Scarp" expected to return to Denver in Januar>' to accept a public rela­tions position. The second half of that all-Jersey double play combination, JACK GENTEMPO, is currently serving a t*vo year hitch in the .^rmy. TIic ''Gent*' is stationed with an Honest John Missile outfit,, in Mainz, Germany — that Is, of course, in between trips to Paris. What a life! While I am on the subject of baseball, a short note on the progress of JACK MITCHELL. Jack is playing in a winter Instructional league in Clear­water,. Fla., following a successful season with the Twins farm dub in the Class B Carolina League. This spring it should be spring training with the "big club." 
CHARLIE LcROSE, after receiving his M.A. at Notre Dame, is now. head of the . psychology de­partment and assistant athletic director at Wendel Catliolic High School In Chlc^o. Chuck was scheduled to marry Miss Bonnie Breslaod of Chica­go on October 29, 1962, with classmates BOB YARIO. DAN FUSCO, and CARMEN' "Batdi** CIVELL.A in attendance. From what I understand, Elliot Ness was planning on a raid. On November 24, 1962. DENNY O'SHAUGHNESSY was married to Miss Kathy Davis (S.M.C.) In Grand Rapiils, Mich. Still on the subject of marriage, MIKE WHITE married Eileen McDermott (S.M.C. '62) on Sept. 1, 1962, in St. Clare of ftfontefalco Church, Chicago, III. The couple is now living in Con.-allis, Ore., while Mike is teaching accotmting at Oregon State. DON RICE makes it three in a row for St. Mary's, retiring* the side as he married Sue Fiugcrald (S.M.C. *61] on August 25, 1962, in Evanston, Illinois. Brother-. . . what have these St. Mary's - girls got? Sue and Don are now re­siding In West Lafayette, Ind., where Don is en­rolled In Purdue's Ph.I>. program in industrial economics. He has already receiv'ed his M.S. de­gree in industrial maiugement from I^lrduc. 
JIM MCVEIG H expects to receive his M.S. in public administration from the Uni\'ersity of Cali-
Notre Dame Alumnus/ Feb.-Marchj 1963 41 
ERIE — Principals at breakfast following the Ene Club observance of Notre Dame Communion Sunday included (from left): Chairman Lewis J. Shioleno, '49, presenting the guest speaker, Father Francis Gallagher; and Secretary John J. AlcCormick, Jr., with football trophies for Mike Biondi (Holy Rosary Grade School), Rockne winner Joseph "Tippy" Pohl (Eric East High School), and Mark Kirkland (St. George Grade School). Event was held at S t Peter's Cathedral and the Kahkwa Club. 
fomia in Januarj*. As a sideline Jim is working for the County of Los Angeles as Administrative As­sistant at Olive View Hospital. Your prayers are requested for Jim's father, who died unexpectedly in June of *62. JIM HODAPP received his M.S. degree from Purdue U. and is now in Management Scr\-ice Training with I.B.M- and assigned to their Louisville. Ky., office. CHUCK iL\LONEY is at­tending med sdiool in Guadalajara, Mexico. FRED W'EIGAND is in his second year of medical school at the U. of Michigan. Recently Fred and his wife Mar>-beth were blessed with their first child, a daughter, Christine Ann. JIAf DETTLIXG is attending the U. of Akron at night, working toward his master's degree In finance. After com­pleting six months' active duty in the Reser\'cs, Jim returned to Akron to work for Bache and Co. Jim's former roommate NORM ^\^NTERTO^' is attending L.S.U. Medical School. 
Flash! Caught in the act: HAVE McCANN on a plane heading for Chicago to spend Xew Year's Eve in the Wndy City. And I had the audacity to suggest that my roommate wasn't whipped. 
JOHN FLYNN and his wife Inger-Marie are now living in Corpus Christi, Tex., where he is currently stationed as a Xa\'al air officer. Pat and BILL HALL recently moved to Reese A.F.B., Tex., where Bill is starting out as an instructor pilot. D.'W^ KILROY completed sLx months of active duty with the North Carolina .Air National Guard last April. He is now working as an anal>-st for the Standard Register Co. in the Carolina area. Brothers JAY and JOE LIBBY arc both serving in Army Intelligence in Washington, D.C. 
I have to tell you a rather amusing story. About two months ago I received a letter with the fol­lowing notation on the back: "GO IRISH BEJ\T \VILDCATS." I didn't have to open It to know whom it was from; you guessed it, ARNIE LEPORATI.' .After completing six months of Marine training, Amle is now working for Burlington Mills Industries and requested that I remind all Yankee haters of the "Champs'* and thelr.-recent fall success. 
Congratulations to TOM BRANTs'lGAN and his recent Moot Court victory at the Notre Dame Law School, before Justice Byron "^Vhizzer" \Vhite. First honors in^-olved a 5150 cash prize. Since Tom has moved his propose marriage date up to June 8, I am sure the prize money will be put to good use.- ;MZKE FARRAR is a first year law student at Notre. Dame this year. JAY WHIT­NEY has been making frequent trips to the South Bend area, . while attending reactor engineering school at the Bettes Atomic Energy Plant in. Pitts­burgh. I think he is trying to.make it four out of four. (Hetzler, R.yan,' Hickey!) 

TOM JORDAN is studying at the Carnegie In­stitute of Technology for his Master's in Business Administration. His roommate, BOB HARRILL is heading for a master's in mechanical engineering. 
RAY TRANCE is looking for^vard to a June grad­uation from Boston University. In the near fu­ture he expects to enter the Air Force as an In­formation Officer. 
JERRY FITZPATRICK is teaching and coach­ing at Notre Dame High School In Sherman Oaks, Calif. Jerry and his wife Sheila were recently blessed uith a son, Christopher, bom August 20, 19C2. 
I received a most noteworthy Christmas message from MARTY RONAN in Santiago, Chile. I think his words are most reflective of the work our graduates are accomplbhing for the Peace Corps: "We have made many friends and have done what we could to help them to help themselves. Whether or not they change and progress we can't say now, but we can say for sure that we have changed and progressed. We have seen in ourselves an in­valuable growth in understanding and knowledge of people. Though this growth has not alu*ays been easy, it has been worthwhile." 
From the Alumni Office: McKeown & Co., of Chicago, has announced that MICHAEL H. CRONIN Is now a registered repre­sentative for the firm. CongratulaUons to EDWARD PHILIP FARLEY who married Dorothy Ellen Koltcs Dec 1 in Mad­ison, Wis. Also to further the **socIety" news of the Column, we have ncv%'s of the marriage between ROBERT E. MYERS and Maria R. Mancri on Sept. 29, in Poughkecpsie. N.Y. MICRAEL KEENAN, '60, was an usher. Other classmates attending were CHUCK DALEY and GERRY LALLY. Bob is an Ensign in the U.S. Coast Guard attached to the 2nd DIst. Engineering Office in St. Louis. He and Maria are living in Brentwood, Mo. Three '61 men are now employed by the govern­ment. GEORGE DISCO is currently stationed aboard the U.S.S. Boston. From Lackland AFB, Tex.: 1st Li. RICHARD S. BESKE is being as­signed to Holloman AFB, N.M., following his com­pletion of the USAF course for legal officers; 2nd Lt. JAMES E. VERDICK, to Truax Field, Wis., foIlOT^ing his graduation from Officer Training School. COLIN T. SUTHERLAND has been appointed a professional service representative of McNeil Laboratories In the Detroit area. 
Law Class of 1961 
John N. Aforeland Assistant County Attorney Wapello County Court House Ottuinwa, Iowa 
After a trip to the N.D.-Iowa game. Bad a very newsy Christmas, this column is again In print. Among the notables seen on Nov, 24th: J J . 
BRODERICK, JR., was the gracious host for the 
law reception after the game. ED 0*TOOLE 
et uxor were present, and a letter from him today 
states that he joined the rest of the cligiblcs with 
the Army on January 7th and will be In Charlottes­
ville, Va.. for the rest of his hitch of 3 years. 
GARY HUMBLE and wife were there (enceinte). 
He said that LARRY HOWARD was in Kalamazoo 
a few weeks ago. Larry is with the city attorney 
in G.R., and has an office In his home. 
RUSS LLOYD told me that his family is en­
larged to 4, and that he is with the firm of F. 
Wendell Lensing In Evans\ille now. 
JACK MANDER5 was present, and gi\*ing lou-a mucho gufTo as the Irish rolled to victory. After tlie reception, ROULE's portable bar was opened near the tennis courts, and a record attendance was noted. JOHN DUNTf and friend Bomber at­tended, along with ED HARDIG, who is wth Feeney and Stratlgos, attorneys in South Bend. After a trip to ClifT and Otto's, Eddies, and the Dog House, we landed at the Hardig residence on LaSalle. Thanks to the generous hospitality of Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Hardig, the Law Class of 1961 had a blast there till the wee hours of the morning. (Forgot to state that J. Dunn and myself got In a short trip to pay our respects to ED THILMAN ESQ. on Howard Avenue.) Others in attendance at the game were MIKE ROSE, and MIKE JACKSON. Talked to JACK HOFFER on the phone — he and family are established in a new home off L.W.E. in Mishairaka. 
Heard somewhere recently that LEONARD FIN-GER&L\N's nephew, EMMETT TYRELL, has passed the Ohio bar. but don't know where he is practldng. JACK MARTZELL's new home address is 2717 Yi Chestnut, New Orleans, La. He was married on August I8th to Veronica Porteous, making him some sort of relation to JOHN HIRSCHFELD, since Veronica and Rita (John's wiic) are sisters. JACK M.ANDERS, and GERRY GALLIVAN were at Jack's wedding, \vith Jack Manders doing the singing honors. John Hirschfeld is stationed in Baltimore teaching the recruits. He and Rita have a new son bom on Dec 19th. Martzell is "facing \irulent, terminal induction Into His Majesty's Armed Forces soon." He is presently working for Fed. Dist. Judge Frank B. Ellis. 
FROG BONNIWELL is in Texas now, address being 310 N. Guilford, San Antonio. Had a card from his mother some time ago with that news, and also heard from Tony at Christmas. 
SOAPY WEBBER WTote us some' time ago In regard to impending nuptials. I must apolo^e for having mislaid his note with the Christmas, cards at home, but I can report that Soapy is engaged to the gal he had dou-n for the law ball in Sprine, 1961 (I think). 
Talked u-ith ROD MEITE and MASON SULLI­VAN in Chicago during the Thanksgiving weekend. Rod is now In ^Vashington working for the govern­ment, and plans to live wnth TIGER BIES there. 

42 Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-Marchj 2963 
JOHN COFFEE is now legal otKcer at Coronado. Calif., and attended a party in Chicago, Jan. 1st. along with BILL GERADO (recently married to the former Ann XfcGovcm of SMC), BAT SCHIERL and Rosemary (also expecting), and Mason Sul­livan and Annie who were the parent^ nf a new daughter Nov. 6. 
In the Christmas card dcpt., I also heard from JOHN PLATTNER, who attended the N.D..U.S.C. i^mc with John CofTce. 
Guess that is about all. (As my wife said when Michael Joseph was bom to u< on December 9th. 1962.) 
Sec you 1958 grads In June. 
1962 
Terrencc McCarthy 23420 Wellington Aft. Clements, Mich. 
A belated but sincere Merry Christmas and best wishes in this New Year. 
Recently I received a letter from TED £K, our Northwest representative, who sends his greetings along with a %%'ord about fellows from the Seattle area. Ted and TED TESKE are freshmen at the 
U. of Washington Medical School where they both worked on the same cadaver in Gross Anatomy. (Yours truly has just finished a Gross course too.) At the U. of W. Law School you can find FRANK "Alaska" S.MITH, TOM COLLINS and good ol' MIKE HARTNETT. Tom and Mike are sharing an apartment at 5222 17th Ave. N.E., Seattle. FRED SPRINGSTEEL and JOHN GARNETT are studying graduate mathematics at U. of W. while leaching freshman math. Their address is 4747 12th Ave. N.E., Seattle. BRIAN KENNEDY is thought to be attending Gonzaga Law Scliool in Spokane-KELLY DAVIS is a trainee for the General of America Insurance Co. and was in the Seattle area at last notice. 
If we move down coast to California we'll have news from rep JOE BRACCO's area. Joe is end­lessly pondering case books at U. of San Fran­cisco Law SchooL CH.\RLIE AUGUSTINE is in flight school in Texas for t^vo years. CLAYTON BE/WER is on a three-year scholarship at Loyola (Los Angeles) Law School. After graduation he has a three-year active duty tour with the Marine Corps on his PLC commission. TONY BILL signed a seven year contract with Warner Brothers. Pres­ently he is co-starring with Frank Sinatra in "Come Blow Your Horn." JACK BRADLEY is a manage­uient trainee with the San Diego Branch of the United California Bank. Wife Linda -w^s ex­pecting twins in November — their second and third; congratulations. 
TERRY BUETHER will get his BOM degree n. 1963. DENNIS BURAN is in Navy OCS. BOB CHIAK is at UCLA Medical School. (How's your cadaver, Bob?). NEAL CLINE is at UCLA Grad­uate School. BILL DONOVAN has been finishing >LX months' active dut>- with the Army, stationed at Ft. Lawiun, Seattle. In February* he intends to enter either insurance or advertising. JOE GALLO is attending Stanford's Graduate Business School. JOHN HUMPHREY has a teaching assist­ant at the U. of Washington, will get his M.S. in physics In V/z years and eventually a Ph.D. MIKE IRIBARNE has a \Voodrow Wilson Fel­lowship in SlaWc Studies and Is at Stanford. JOE IRWIN is at the U. of California (Berkeley) La\v School. Joe married Claire Tra\-aros in June, and a young Invin Is on the way. Congratulations. Joe and Claire. ROBERT KELLEY is on active duty for two years through his Army ROTC commission, stationed in Germany. Lt\RRY KOL­BERG is in the Army for six months' active duty. Before leaving, Larr>- visited EDDIE SCHNURR and his wife at their home, 1613 Raymond Hill Rd. in South Pasadena. Ed is associated with the United California Bank. LINZIE KRA,MER is at­tending Hastings College of Law In San Fran. MIKE Mx\HANEY is working for Litton Industries in Los Angeles. PAUL AURGOSIAN is stationed at Lewis Research Center In Cleveland as an ensign in the U.S.N.; electrical engineer capacity. JOE .MARTELL/V entered the Air Force OTS in Oct. for four years as an information officer. JOHN MARTIN has a Marine Commission and will br on active duty for three years. PAT McMAHON is at Stanford's Graduate School of Business In the two-year MBA program. JIM MIIwVCICH is at the U. of California's Graduate School of Business. PAT MURPHREE left for France in November as an ofiicer in the Transportation Corps of the Army. LOUIS PADBERG planned to gradu­ate in Januar>- and immediately enter Navy OCS. CHUCK PERSYN is working on a M.S. In chcm. engineering at Oklahoma State U. PAT POWERS Is studying at the U. of California. BEN SALVATY Is at the U. of So. California Law SchooL LARRY SOLETTI was commissioned through NROTC and was at Athens, Ga., until December. JOHN TIDGEWELL Is taking prc-mcd requirements and hopes to enter medical school soon. PETE VIEIR/\ is a Na\y ensign stationed at Long Beach, Calif. MIKE WOODS is at Loyola (Los Angeles) Law School and looking for^vard to another baseball season. MIKE ZWETTLER Is at Harvard on a National Foreign Language Fel­lowship, majoring In Arabic and Persian languages 
and their histories, and be Intends to continue along these lines. 
Congratulations to ANDY BURD and the former Mary Catherine Wealan on their marriage on Nov. 24, in the Church of Christ the King in Chicago. Andy is employed by the J- Walter Thompson Co. in Chicago 
Second Lt. FRANK SCHLICK In the Army Sig­nal Corps was last seen at Fort Gordon, Ga. PHIL YAWMA N sent word along that he currently Ls an tnterx'Iewcr in the installment loan division n[ the Central Trust Co. In Rochester, N.Y. 
Well, this cub reporter Is turning the news over to the Alumni (big-league) reporters. Re­member to inform your area reps or yours truly of news, and If you haven't received your Alumni DIrector>-— write me. 
From the Alumni Ofhce: Many, many releases about '62 classmates in the Army .. . 2nd Lt. THOMAS J. O'HARA, who just completed an 8-week officer orientation course at Fort Lee with 2nd Lt. THEODORE J. NYLES­SE, is being reassigned to Fort Hamilton. He and wife, Ellen, ^vill be moving to Brooklyn, N.Y. At Fort Benjamin Harrison, Ind., Reserve Pvt. FREDERICK L. SPATZ recently completed 5­week training as a disbursing specialist at The Finance School. Completing 9-week officer orienta­tion courses at Fort Eustis, Va., were 2Qd Lts. FRANCIS D. DONNELLY, JOHN H. CARRAHER and PATRICK F. MURPHEE. 2nd Lts. JOHN H. ZEILER and JEROME F. KEEFE completed 8­weck officer orientation courses at Fort Knox, Ky. From Fort Gordon, Va.: 2nd Lt. WILLIAM H. CHOQUETTE recently completed the 8-week officer orientation courses. 2nd Lt. PAUL J. RETTIG fin­ished the 8-week field artillery officer orientation course at Fort Sill, Okla. Finally, from the Presidio of San Francisco, 2nd Lt. FRANCIS A. LOO was assigned to the U.S. Army Dispensary. 
Two marriages the 29th of December .. . In Bronx, N.Y., Karen P. Welty and JOHN AN­THONY PUGLIESE and In Minneapolis, Minn., Carmen M. Lang and WILLIAM EDWARD KLEIN. 
ROBERT C. B.\ILEY Is working in Washington as a business economist for the Federal Trade Com­mission. His new home address Is 6747 Falrfxx Rd., Chevy Chase, Md. 
HAROLD W. SCHAEFGEN, JR., who you may recall placed first in the engineering class. Is study­ing at the University of Erlangen, Germany, on a Rotary Foundation Fellowship. He is one of 137 outstanding graduate students from 35 countries chosen for a grant. Another engineer, DANIEL P. O'CONNOR, is now employed with the Bureau of Reclamation. 

CHICAGO — Chairman Joe Zwers kicked off the merriment at the Chicago Club's annual Rockne dinner at the Pick-Congress Hotel in December behind a battery of Rockne trophies, the larger one displayed in the winner's school and the smaller kept permanently. At center the happy winners, Lane Tech's Bob Gibson for the Public League and Loyola Catholic's Phil Sunderland, are congratulated 
(l.-r.) by All-Amcrican John Lattner, Athletic Director Ed Krause, Club President Jack Barry and Coach Joe Kuharich. And Sheriff George Ratterman (right) stole the show with uproarious anecdotes of his bench-warming days with the Irish and the Browns. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Feb.-March^ 1963 43 
Rev. Raymond v/. -'.'uj-ray, CSC Corby Hall. . Notre Dame. Ind. 
Check, support, promote, attend your local observance of 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 1963 
April, 1963* 

*As our Local Alumni Clubs know, in order to take advantage of campus speakers through itineraries and multiple appearances, the obseI^'ance in the several Club communities may be set from April 15 tlirough tlie ensuing several weeks. (The official U.N.D. Night is the second Monday after Easter. Therefore, in 1963 it is April 22.) Check with your Club officers for the time and place of the local obser\'ance. 
The primarj' purpose of Universal Notre Dame Night, established in 1924, is to reflect the image of the total Universit}' in the Club community. This reflection was originally directed toward the non-athletic, because the athletic image has been presented to the public in unusual completeness \na. press, radio, television and the University teams. 
We have found tliat some specific phase of the Notre Dame image contributes to the planning and the effectiveness of the specific Night 
1963 marks tlie 100th Anniversaiy of the Battle of Gettysburg, and the famous absolution given on tiiat occasion to the Irish Brigade, the Fighting 69th, by Rev. William Corby, C.S.C., chaplain, one of Notre Dame's great figures — twice Presi­dent of the University and a Provincial of the Holy Cross Priests. 
The Alumni Board has agreed that patriotism, as reflected by the University, is a constructive theme for the 1963 U.N.D. Night observance, dramatized by the Centennial Field Mass planned for June at the Gettysburg battlefield, where the origi­nal statue of Father Corby stands. A duplicate of tliis statue is a familiar campus landmark in front of Corby Hall. 
The Board has suggested the theme, "Notre Dame's AU-Ainerican Tradition." 
Under this theme tlie Clubs have many facets of emphasis, speakers, publicity, local adaptation for community bonus values, and outside interest and involvement: -• . u • • 
1.
 The historical Americanism of the University, from Father Sorin, through the Civil War Chaplains, the chaplains in Worid Wai-s I and II, Cardinal O'Hara, etc. '' 

2.
 The alumni Americanism of Notre Dame men, the records of the two World Wars, the campus training facilities for the armed forces, the R.O.T.C. record, etc. 

3.
 The economic Americanism of the Universit)', the private enterprise saga from Log Chapel to Memorial Library, the , opportunity for boys, the training for citizenship and leadership in American societ)', etc. 

4.
 The athletic Americanism of the Universit)', the whole man, physical fitness, competition, American pattern of the teams, national schedules, e.\ample to boys, and, of course, the key record of the Ail-Americans. 


.i. The social and scientific Americanism of the University, family strength, political and civic leadership record, scientific contributions such as Father Nieuwland, the present implications of the radiation researcli and computer centers, etc. 
6. The spiritual Americanism of the University, open to all faiths and races, affiliated publications, teaching of alumni re­ligious, missions, hierarchy, etc. 
When your Club makes its announcement, mark your calendar and make a reser\'ation to attend the 39th and best Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Jim Armstrong 











