The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
QniMii iiDiiiiaiiaitiiitiDiii 
EI 

COMMENT 

"IN THIS ISSUE" 
Patrick Cardinal Hayes—Ed­ward N. Hurley—Gilbert Keith Chesterton— 
Names to conjure \vith in our contemporary world. 
Yet here they are, all closely bound to Notre Dame, our Notre Dame, praising Notre Dame, blessing Notre Dame, building Notre Dame. 
The situation is more than a fortunate period in Notre Dame history. It is a forecast. 
It heralds that day when the great men of the world -^vill all be bound closely to Notre Dame, bound by ties of admii-ation for the great things that Notre Dame ^vill have done. Bound, in many cases, by the ties of an alumnus and his Alma Mater. For Notre Dame men, profiting by the new facilities of such a period as the new College of Commerce launches, inspired by such faith and praise as Card­inal Hayes brings to us, and taught by such great minds as that of Chesterton, cannot help but join the ranks of the great. 
The ALUMNUS feels its in­adequacy to interpret the sig­nificance of this "forest to which we are so close we cannot see the trees." Its pleasure derives from the thought that the ALUMNUS of the future, hold­ing, as this humble effort attempts to do, the "mirror up to nature," will therein reflect all that now seems inevitable. 
Ml-. Hurley's gift is largely significant as the fii-st recogni­tion by a comparative "outsider" of the needs of Notre Dame, and 

IN TtilS IJJIJE 
Architect's Drawing New College-J'rontispiece Mr. Hurley's Letter of Announcement 100 Gift Aids Progress of Greater Notre Dame 102 Cai-dinal Hayes Dedicates New Law Building 104. 
Sidelights on the New Law Building 105 University Honors Gilbert K. Chesterton. 107 Editorial 109 Athletics 110 University Dedicates Stadium. 112 Football or Hand Grenades (From The Rotarian). 115 The Alumni Clubs 118 The Alumni 120 
The masazine is published monthly durtnf; the scholastic year by the Alamni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March :J. 1897. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus. Box 81. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEJIBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARJISTRONG, '25, Editor 
HARLEY L. MCDEVITT, '29, Adveirtising Mgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVAXAUCH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President FRANK E . HERIXG, '98 ---President HON. WILLIAJI J. GRANFIELD, '13 Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 ---Treasurer GEORGE M. JUYPOLE, '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director 
Director PETER P. MCELLIGOTT, '02 
•T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 
Director JOHN W. EGGEMAN, 'CO {ex officio) Director 
at the same time a recognition of the merits of the University that deserve a response to those needs. That such a recognition should come from a man of Mr. Hurley^s international reputa­tion for sound business judg­ment and earnest endeavors toward the social and educa­tional betterment of man is doubly gratifying. 
It leaves only one conclusion for those of us who have had the benefits of education at Notre Dame, who have lived the Notre Dame life, spent our days vnth the Notre Dame men, and listened to the Notre Dame 
-teachers. That we cannot all express this answer in the gen­erous teiTOS that mark Mr. Hurley's tribute is a matter for mutual regi-et. But Ave can all answer to the best of our respec­tive abilities. Then there will be no regi-et. 





THE COLLEGE OF COMMERCE 
«» 
REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
President of the Unirersitu 
JAMES E. MCCARTHY, B.C.S. 
Dean of the College of Commerce 
va6 ujtrjier cmAfae itt coiam&Jiti-t 
Ml lOBlIC II in I. 
ARCHITECT'S DRAWING OF PROJECTED COLLEGE OF COIIJIERCE 
A Tribute to the Academic Notre Dame 
TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume IX. NOVEMBER, 1930 No. 3 
University Annoiwces Edward N. Hurley College of Commerce 
Generous Gift of Prominent Financier Climaxes Informed Connections With Ideals of Notre Dame, 
World War Chairman 
of U. S. 
ShippingBoard. 
/—' 
Chairman Federal Trade Commission 
,—' 
Achieved Personal Success in Foreign Commerce 
<—' 
Appointed by President Hoover to Study Merchant Marine. 
/—' 
Holder of 
D. S. C. from U. S. 
/^ 
President American Manufacturers Export Ass'n. 
as Member of Board of Lay Trustees. 
mt^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^BBSB^^^i^^^U 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^BH^^HI^IK^;,^ ^^^M




^^^^l^^^^H^B^fl 
^^^^^^^^^^H^^^te^l 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^BBHBSP'IJ|^|^^^^^^^^B 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^a ^^^^^^H 
^•RJHI^^^^B 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^k^^^^^^^^^^l 
Awarded Honorary Doctorate byNotre Dame in 191S. 
Awarded Laetare Medal by Notre Dame in 1926 for Public Record. 
Noted for Interest in Education and Philanthropy. 
Considered OutstandingEmample of Business Man in Public Life. 
Among the First of Catholic Leaders in Business to Recognise Catholic Education. 

HON. EDWARD NASH HURLEY, LL.D. 'IS, LAETARE MED^U, '26 
EDWARD N. HURLEY 

208 SOUTH LASALLE ST. •  
CHICAG O  
November  
Eighth  
1 9 3 0  
The Reverend Charles L. O'D onnell, C.S.C,  
The President,  
University of Notre Dame,  
Notre Dame, Indiana.  

Dear Father O'Donnell: 
The Universitj'^ of Notre Dame is I'endering valuable service to American industry by educating young men in its School of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, particularly because the University features the great importance of foreign trade to the future industrial development of our countiy. In recognition of tlois service, I ^vish to contribute to the Uni­versity the sum of t^vo hundred thousand ($200,000.00) dollars for the erection of a new building to be kno^vn as the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. 
As a member of the University's Board of Lay Trustees, I have been impressed ^^ith the educational advantages which you offer to the three thousand and more students of the University, and the remarkable progress you are making in equipping young men to go into the fields of foreign and domestic commerce, engineering, the professions, etc. Through the small tuition fee charged to regular students and through your employment plan by which you enable some 350 other students to help defray their expenses through college, at the liberal rate of compensation allowed, you really are subsidizing the education of many ambitious young men who could not otherwise afford to go to college. Thus from the close contact I have had mt h the Universitj', and the insight which this has afforded me into its inner workings, I have come to understand why Notre Dame is justly regarded as one of the leading universities of America. 
As an inspiration to the students in the new College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce building, may I suggest that each of the six principal study halls be named for distinguished American industrial leaders of international vision who have rendered special service to our countiy in their particular lines of endeavor and that an oil portrait of each sponsor be placed in his respective study hall to serve as a constant reminder— to the students—of his boyhood struggles, phenomenal success and sub­sequent leadership. 
I should like very much to have the University name the following gentlemen: James A. Fan-ell, New York, President of the United States Steel Corporation, to represent Steel Manufacturing and Overseas Ship­ping; Ernest R. Graham, Chicago, senior member of the firm of Graham, Anderson, Probst and Wliite—^Architecture; Samuel Insull, Chicago, Chairman of the Commonwealth Edison Company—Electric Public Utili­ties ; Charles E. Mitchell, New York, Chairman of the National City Bank —^International Banking; John D. Kyan, New York, Chairman of the Anaconda Copper Company—Copper Mining and Manufacturing; Gerard Swope, New York, President of the General Electric Company—^Engineer­ing and Electrical Manufacturing; all of whom would be highly honored to be identified vnth. Notre Dame. 
The young men graduating from the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce will blaze the trail of modem and equitable business methods just as our forefathers blazed the trail for civilization and commercial progi'ess by exchanging goods for furs with the Indians. 
At our present stage of economic development, it is most important that we should recognize that those same sound business principles must apply to our foreign commerce and that the essence of trade is exchange. We are only a part of the world and no more impoiiant than any other countiy. We have to have orders from foreign countries to be successful, but foreign customers cannot biy our goods unless they sell their own. Wlien all nations are in a healthy economic condition, the reaction is favorable to all and we must learn to recognize the absolute necessity of bujing as well as selling. In this connection, I should like to suggest that Notre Dame exchange scholarships with universities of the principal indus­trial nations of tlie world where courses are taught similar to yours which lay special emphasis upon the importance of the unfettered movement of goods in the channels of the world trade, and which are designed to train specialists in the theory and practice of international exchange of goods and services. 
In order that the students may visualize what modem transportation and communication have done towards bringing the nations of the world into closer contact, the four walls of the main or memorial hall of the new College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce building are to have a mui-al painting in colors of a map of all the countries of the world, showing the seven seas and the trade routes featuring the seaports of the world, giving the nautical miles between the principal international ports and the shortest time it requires for the fastest passenger and cargo service between different countries, as well as cable and radio telephone communi­cation systems to the countries covered by that sei"vice. 
This map should impress the students Avith the importance and responsibility of the United States in the world of commerce. It will show the American flag flying from the mast of an American ship in every foreign port of the world which, for fifty yeai"s, has been the great ambi­tion of the American people. And it should help the students to realize that the same economic problems we have are to be found in all countries and that the peoples of the world share our ambitions to make their respective countries better places in which to live. 
It is my hope that my contribution may be helpful in furthei-ing your expansion plan for the College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce in order that the graduates may enter business life with a more thorough knowledge not only of our OWTI economic needs, but of all nations, par­ticularly as they apply to the impoi-tance of imports and exports. 
Sincerely yours, 

(Sig.) EDWARD N . HURLEY. 
Gift Aids Progress of Greater Notre Dame 
Foundation of a College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame through a donation of two hundred thousand ($200,000) dollars, by Edward N. Hurley of Chicago, internationally known business man and publicist, was announced November 12 by the University authorities. 
Many unique features will charac­terize the institution, which in its teachings, will lay special emphasis upon the importance of the unfettered movement of goods in the channels of world trade and will educate young men in courses designed to train spEcialists in the theoi-y and practice of international exchange of goods and services. In this connection, the University is planning the exchange of scholarships with universities of the principal industrial nations of the world, where similar courses are taught, which will be helpful in strengthening economic understand­ings between nations. 
Mr. Hurley was led to make his donation in part by a desire to com­memorate the founding of his own foi-tune through international busi­ness. 
In 1S97 Mr. Hurley and the two Kimman brothers began the manu­facture of pneumatic drills and ham­mers in a bai-n back of the Kimman home in Lawndale, Illinois. Hurley found it impossible to raise capital in Chicago, but conceived the idea of going to England to sell the British patents. Mr. Hurley went to London in 1S99 and, in iive days, sold the British patents for $125,000. Ever since he has been urging American business men to open new markets abroad for their wares. 
In 1914 President Wilson appointed him special commissioner to South America to report on banking and credits in Argentine, Brazil, Chile and Peru. While Chairman of the Fed­eral Trade Commission, he helped pass the Webb-Pomerene bill which permitted American manufacturers to combine and foi-m foreign export associations. 
As war chairman of the U. S. Ship­ping Board and president of the Emergency Fleet Corporation, he • helped to build the ships which played a momentous role in transporting men and materials to France during the war. In recognition of that service, he received the Distinguished Service Medal from his government; Com­mander of the Legion of Honor from France; and Grand Officer of the Crown of Italy. He also was Presi­dent Wilson's Shipping Advisor at the Peace Conference in Paris. 
President Coolidge appointed him a member of the World War Foreign Debt Commission. 
A year ago his business associates persuaded him to take the presidency of the American Manufacturers Ex­port Association in order to be help­ful in further stimulating American foreign trade. 
President Hoover recently appoint­ed him a member of the Advisoi-y 
JlR. HURLEY RECEIVES THE LAETARB 
MEDAL (1926) 
Shipping Committee to investigate and make recommendations for the future development of the American merchant marine. 
In his letter of gift, Mr. Hurley suggested means of visualizing in the new institution the spirit of American business and the importance of all nations of international commerce. 
The University authorities not only expressed great appreciation of Mi\ Hurley's donation, but stated that Notre Dame wishes to call the build­ing the Edward N. Hurley College of Foreign and Domestic Commerce as a tribute to the donor's contribution to the progress of international trade and the up-building of our merchant marine. They also expressed them­selves as being particularly pleased w^ith the suggestion that the study halls be. named for the six inter­
• nationally known industrial leaders mentioned by Mr. Hurley, 
It was said at the administrative offices, "We deem a donation from a man of Mr. Hurley's character a val­uable endorsement of the business and economic courses furnished by the University. Presidents Wilson, Cool­idge and Hoover have all officially recognized Mr. Hurley's ability and desire to do things in a helpful way in the interest of the public." 
"The fact that he is devoting all of his time to public Eer\'ice today is an encouraging indication of the manner in which American business men are assuming public responsibilities and recognizing that industrial leaders in their later days should do something in recognition of what they owe to America, and to the economic soli­darity of the world." 
In 1918, Edward N. Hurley, then performing his great work for the Government, in connection with the tremendous shipping interests in­volved in the transporting of troops and supplies, was awarded the degree of Doctor of Laws by Notre Dame in recognition- of these outstanding services as a Catholic patriot. 
In 1926, with all that glamorous war activity completed with unpai-­raUeled success and honor, Mr. Hur­ley, unlike so many other iigures of the war period, had not retired to personal or private work. Instead, using his unlimited talents and execu­tive ability, aided by his record of achievement and integrity, he had led those vitally important reconstructive activities that enabled America, with gigantic loans outstanding and doubt­ful of repayment, to emerge neverthe­less into a quick prosperity. As a tribute to his continued unselfish and invaluable part in the public life of the nation, Notre Dame bestowed upon him the Laetai-e Medal, highest awai-d that can be bestowed upon a lay Cath­olic in this counti-y. 
Sufficient tribute to Mr. Hurley is that both these honors ^yere heartily and generally approved. 
The following article gives a very comprehensive account of Mr-. Hur­ley's life and easily e-^plains the re­

November, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
markable record that won for the re­cipient the foregoing recognitions. 
The much mooted question, "who won the war," might well be answered by the statement that undoubtedly the enemy was conquered by the masterly efforts of those men of large affairs, who, putting aside all personal con­siderations, placed their exceptional abilities at the disposal of the War President, and conscientiously carried out his orders. Among these real patriots Edward N. Hurley occupies a most commanding position, and his constructive work still continues for he is one who is as great in peace as in war. 
Edward N. Hurley, in spite of all he has accomplished, is a man still in the very prime of ^^gorous manhood, for he was born July 31, 1864, at Galesburg, Illinois. His parents were Jeremiah and Ellen (Nash) Hurley, natives of counties Cork and Limer­ick, Ireland, respectively. They came separately to the United States, and were married in Connecticut. Jere­miah Hurley came to this countiy with his widowed mother, and after he came west to Illinois, he was em­ployed as a mechanical workman in the machine shops of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy railroad at Galesburg. He died there and is buried in the cemeteiy of that beau­tiful inland city. Jeremiah Hurley and his wife were the parents of eleven children, and of this family, Edward N. Hurley was the sixth. 
Until he was seventeen years old, Edward N. Hurley continued to reside with his parents at Galesburg. Dur­ing the summer vacation while attend­ing school he worked as a farm hand for his uncle at $8 a month. After iinishing high school he entered the employ of the railroad shops at Gales­burg, for a short period, moving to Chicago in December, 1881. He also spent six months with the Wells & French car works, and later became fireman of a switch engine of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy rail­road. Twenty-one months later he was promoted to be engineer, and ran a locomotive until Febmary, 1888. It was during the latter year, that the great railroad strike of engineers occurred, and Mr. Hurley went out with his union. . During the strike period he was secretary to P. JM. Ai-thur, grand chief of the Brother­hood of Locomotive Engineers. In 1889 he was appointed deputy col­lector of internal revenue, and in 1890 became chief engineer of Cook County public institutions. 
Resigning, he went on the road as a ti-aveling salesman for a Philadel­phia supply house, and then, in 1897, he embarked in the manufacture of pneumatic tools and produced the first portable pneumatic piston air drill and boring machine ever made. This was the beginning of the pneumatic tool industry in the United States and Europe, and the opening up of gi-eat fields of operation through the use of these tools. In 1899 Mr. Hur­ley sold the Great Britain and Eu­ropean rights of this invention, but continued manufacturing until 1902, when he disposed of his American rights and retired from active com­mercial life. 
Bujnng a tract of land near Wheaton, Illinois, he devoted much of his time to pastoral pursuits, special­izing in blooded shorthorns. Berk­shires and other stock. For five years he devoted his entire time to this and to traveling in this country and abroad. ' 
However, a man of his caliber could not rest content so far removed from business actirities, and in 1907, he organized the First National Bank of Wheaton, and became its first presi­dent, and also founded and developed the Hurley Machine Company of Chi­cago, which still endures. This cor­poration invented, developed and manufactured the first electrical cylin­der washing machine. Mr. Hurley continued actively at the head of this company until January, 1914, when he was appointed special commis­sioner to go to South America'and re­port on banking and credits of the Argentine, Brazil, Chile, and Pern republics. 
On his return, he was appointed, September 26, 1914, a member of the newly organized Federal Trade Com­mission, and was elected its vice-chair­man, which office he held until his resignation from the commission Feb­ruary 1, 1917, and returned to Chi­cago to look after his personal busi­ness interests. 
The following letter, under date of January 10, 1917, will give some idea of the value of Mr. Hurley's work on this commission: 
"My dear Mr. Chairman: 
"It is with deepest and most gen­uine regret that I accept your resig­nation from the Federal Trade Com­mission, to take effect February 1, 1917. I accept it only because I am con^nnced from what you tell me that you could not, consistently with in­terests for which you must care, con­tinue the work you have been so ad­mirably performing. I wish with all my heart that it might have been possible for you to stay, and I want you to know in what high esteem you have been held here by everyone who has had dealings with you and what a very high value I, in common with the public, have placed upon your work with the Commission. 
"Cordially and sincerely yours, 
"WooDRow WILSON." 

In April, 1917, after the declaration of war, Mr. Hurley was appointed by President Wilson, a member of the Red Cross War Council, and served as such until June 15, 1917, and dur­ing this time the council made the successful $100,000,000 drive. Re­signing from the council, he accepted President Wilson's appointment to membership on the War Trade Board, representing the department of com­merce. On July 28,1917, however, he was appointed by President Wilson to chairman of the United States Shipping Board, and president of the Emergency Fleet Corporation, so he resigned from the War Trade Board, and devoted himself to the onerous responsibilities of these two bodies until July 31, 1919. His record as war chairman of the Shipping Board and president of the Emergency Fleet Corporation was commended by a committee of Congress which investi­gated his expenditures of about four billion dollars. 
Four days after the signing of the armistice, he was requested by Presi­dent Wilson to go to France, to ne­gotiate with our associates in the war, to obtain from Germany the interned passenger ships in German harbors in order to facilitate the return of our troops. In addition to his other du­ties, at that time, Mr. Hurley was a member of the Supreme Economic Council, and also represented the United States as a member of the In­ternal Labor Board in Paris. He re­turned home in March, 1919. Mr. Hurley outlined to Congress a plan for our future operation of merchant fleets. 
Since his resignation, July 31, 1919, Mr. Hurley has devoted much of his time to literary pursuits along the line of efficiency in business pursuits, particularly as applied to our foreign trade expansion. From the time he became a member of the Shipping Board until the signing of the armis­tice, he was a member of President Wilson's war cabinet, and few men have had the opportunity that has been his, to acquire definite and first­hand knowledge of existing conditions in this country and abroad. 
In 1917 Mr. Hurley issued his book "Awakening of Business/' of which he says in the preface: 
"This book has a definite purpose. The time has come for stating some plain truths and for stating them in a plain way. The message of this book is not a message of congratula­tion, but of warning; not a message of criticism but of construction; not a message for the other man, but for you. 
"It is my hope that this book may assist business men in bettering busi­ness conditions and in working out sound methods of co-operation; that it ^vill inform them of government activities in their behalf and bring about a closer harmony between them and the government. 
"I assume personal responsibility for all the views expressed in this book. They are my individual views and in no sense those of the Federal Trade Commission." 
In the new Merchant Marine, Mr. Hurley anticipated the inevitable dif­ficulties and problems which our mer­chant marine must ultimately face and offers helpful suggestions for its upbuilding. The book is touchingly dedicated "to the American Boy whose duty it is to maintain our flag upon the seas now that it has been restored there, this volume is hopefully dedicated." 
A most interesting article from Mr. Hurley appeared in the American Mngacine of October, 1920, entitled: "The Two from "Whom I Learned the Most," in which he declared that these were his mother, and "Dutch" Koegel, a railroad engineer for whom he fired. Tlie tribute he pays to his mother in this article is a beautiful one, and it is easy to read between the lines that it is from this industrious, economical and sensible housewife and home­maker that the distinguished Amer­ican drew those admirable character­istics which enabled him to assume and discharge responsibilities of world­wide importance. In this article he states his belief that if a man pos­sesses the qualities for further devel­opment, the opportunity will open up for him, but that if he is without them success will never be his. Certainly his own experience proves the conten­tion, for it has been entirely through his own ability to grasp each oppor­tunity as it was presented that he has attained to his present international prestige. The work he accomplished for his country, and for the world. 
will always form a very illuminating page in the history of his times. He served as a member of the World War Foreign Debt Commission, to which office he was appointed, Febru­ary 13, 1924, by President Coolidge, and in 1925 he participated in the set­tlement of the Belgian, Italian and other war debts. 
On September 30, 1890, Mr. Hurley was married to Julia Keeley, who died October 18, 1899, leaving two sons, Edward N., junior, and Raymond J. Mr. Hurley was married second, July 24, 1905, to Florence A. Amberg, and they have two children; Helen M. and John Richard. Both sons of the first marriage served in the World War, with the rank of lieutenant. The younger, Raymond, sei-ved actively at the front, was gassed, severely wounded, was cited for bravery, and made a wonderful record. Mr. Hurley is a member and trustee of the Young Men's Christian Association School of Commerce. He has been called for on lecture platforms, and for some years now has devoted his attention to bet­tering conditions of the country. 


Cardinal Hayes Dedicates Law Building 
Eminent Prelate Praises Notre Dame's Academic Rejmtation; 
October 7 was reminiscent of an older Notre Dame. Classes were dis­missed at noon. After dinner, in a pouring rain, the students gathered in the Main Quadrangle. The Uni­versity Band marched to the entrance of the campus and there met cars bearing one of the most distinguished visitors it has been the University's good fortune to entertain—Patrick Cardinal Hayes, Archbishop of New York. 
The Cardinal, who had been met at the South Bend station by University officials, was escorted by the band to Sacred Heart Church where he donned his robes and went to the porch of the Main Building. After an intro­duction by Father Charles O'Donnell, Cardinal Hayes briefly addressed the students of Notre Dame. He expressed his pleasure at the opportunity of insiting personally the University whose reputation in learning as well as athletics is so well known in the East. He stressed the advantages of Catholic education and the opportuni­ties that lie before the Catholic col­leges and their students. Following this address, the Cardinal's blessing 
cation 171 Rain; Visit Is Brief. 
Cardinal Hayes Blesses Neiv College of Law 
was bestowed upon the assembled stu­dents and faculty. 
At two o'clock, after a luncheon for the Cardinal in the University Dining Halls, the faculty, in cap and gown, and the students of the College of Law, welcomed him in the new Law Building, where Cardinal Hayes blessed the new structure in the official dedicatory exercises. 
All ceremonies attending the Card-. 
Addresses Student Convo­
inal's visit were necessarily brief as he arrived after noon on Tuesday and was forced to leave at five the same evening. He came in the private car of George MacDonald, accompanied by his secretary, the Rev. Stephen Donahue, D. D. His Eminence was on his way to the observation of the Diamond Jubilee of St. Ignatius Col­lege, San Francisco. 
Cardinal Hayes' handsome appear­ance, his eloquent address, and his beautiful tribute to Notre Dame, made the brevity of his visit its only i-egrettable feature. 
FITZPATRICK REPRESENTS N.D. 
Keene Fitzpatrick, '16, prominent alumnus of the University on the West Coast, publishers' representative of the Chicago Tribtine and Liberty Magazine, represented the University of Notre Dame at the observance of the Diamond Jubilee of St. Ignatius College, San Francisco, October 12 to 
19. The observance was participated in by the City of San Francisco and nation-wide educational and religious interests, including the Hierarchy. 




Sidelights On The New Law Building 
Viam vei-itatis elegi; 
Jndicia Uia non sum oblitiis. 

The ALUMNUS takes the liberty of reprinting the following very in­teresting details of the new Law Building, which were compiled for the Scliolastic by the authors, but which will appeal even to those superior lawyers among the alumni who read their law in Sorin or in the i^T" covered Hoynes College. 
Stnicture Impressive in She 

It would take 262 people linked ai-ra-in-arni to circle this building. Alex Wilson would require about fifty-two seconds to complete two and one-half circuits of the building, which would be somewhat more than a quarter mile. It fronts along Notre Dame avenue, set back 50 feet from the car line, distance of 157 feet, 7 inches. Along Dorr road and set back fifty feet, the building runs 105 feet, 1 inch. At the southwest corner a tower rears its cross into the sky to a height of 7S feet. The rest of the stnicture is 56 feet high. Picture if you can, a fly crawling up the tower from the ground, without mak­ing any stops and traveling at a rate of three feet per minute. It would take 26 minutes to get up. After a rest to cool off from his exertions and to survey the scenerj-, it now would come down the other side of the building at the increased speed of four feet per minute and again reach solid ground in just 44 min­utes from the time it left the roof. 
Interior Decorated bi/ Seals 

Exploring the interior by way of the north door, we are met by the three last verses of Psalm 118, as used in the Holy Office on Prime Sunday. They are seen in Latin at the beginning of this article and are translated as follows by the Reverend Paul D. Doherty, C.S.C. 
The way of Truth I have chosen; Thy judgments I have not forgotten. 
Underneath this verse is found the seal of Gratian, the founder of the science of canon law. Upon entering we see the seal of the Blessed Thomas More, famous English statesman who was martyred for his religion. When the second floor is reached the eye beholds a great variety of seals and inscriptions. For' over head is a statue of Christ the King. 
By WILLIAM CORR and MYRON CRAWFORD 
Directly below this imposing figure is the seal of Pope Innocent III. This great canonist occupied the Papal See from 1198 until 1216. During this time he held more power than any other man before him or after him has ever enjoyed. On the left of this 
Senior Lawyers Attend Dedicatory Ceremonies 
seal is that of Cardinal Gasparri, the present Papal Secretary of State and one of the greatest canonists of all time, as was shown by his negotia­tions with Mussolini during the recent settlement of the confusion between Church and State in Italy. To the right of these two seals is that of Robert, Cardinal Hellerman, the emi­nent Jesuit canonist. 
Over the doorway leading to the dean's office is the seal of St. Fran­cisco de Vitoria, the Dominican theo­logian and exponent of canon law. Opposite this seal and over the door leading to the other offices on the north side of the second floor, there appears a seal bearing a scroll on which are ^vritten the words, "Fert, Fert, Fert," which could not be ex­plained by such experts on heraldry as Reverend Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C, or Reverend Paul D. Doherty, C.S.C. 
Names of Ten Latvyers Inscribed 
Over Library Entrance 

Entering the reading room we find over the north door the names of ten great English and American jurists of recent times. Sir William Black­stone, the great English jurist, who lived from 1723 to 1780, heads the list. Joseph Chitty, who lived from 1776 until 1841, is the only other English lawyer whose name appears. Two great Supreme Court justices head the list of American men of law. John Marshall, who lived from 1755 until 1835 is the most famous of these. However he does not dim the fame of Roger Brooke Taney, who lived from 1777 until 1864 and who occupied the position of Chief Justice after the death of John Marshall. Thomas Mclntyre Cooley is another American jurist whose name appears in this illustrious company. A former governor of Massachusetts, Christo­pher Gore, also is a well-known figure in American jurisprudence. James Kent was an eminent contemporary of John Marshall. John N. Pomeroy was a recognized authority on legal matters during the latter part of the nineteenth century. Edward G. Ryan who was bom in Ireland in 1810, but early removed to America to become a justice of the Supreme Court before his death in 1880, is also remembered here. Joseph Story who was an as­sociate Justice of the Supreme Court, was a contemporary of Joseph Chitty and occupies the same position in America that Chitty does in England. 
Seals in Library 

Flanking these illustrious names are the seals of two great canonists. Popes Gregory IX and Boniface Vm . The reason for placing the seals of these great canonists in a building devoted to civil law is easily ex­plained. At the time that these men held their power the Church and the State were one and the same, instead of separate entities as they are now. All the great canon lawyers of those times were great civil lawyers as well, since the spiritual and temporal power were united under one head. 
At the south end of the reading room, grouped over the doorway, are the names of the four Evangelists. These illustrious men were examples of the greatest legal minds of all time. Set high above these names is the outline of a shield still left blank which is to contain the coat-of-arms of the University. 
Leaving by the main door and cast­ing one look back at the Building the Papal seal and that of the United States are seen immediately over the door. They form a fitting entrance to one of the most beautiful law ^hools in the country. 
BOOKS 
Introduction to Metaphysics (Mac­millan) is the welcome title of a new volume by Eev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C., Ph.B.'ll, Ph.D., dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Prof. Daniel C. O'Grady, Ph.D., a member of the faculty. The book is attractive­ly bound and can be ordered through the University book store. ($2.25). The volume carries the Imprimatur of Cardinal Hayes. 
Notre Dame men who have enjoyed the thoroughly informed and interest­ingly presented philosophy of Father Miltner need no further recommenda­tion for the excellence of the book. Dr. O'Grady is one of the younger members of the faculty, a graduate of the University of Ottawa and of Catholic University. He is considered to be particularly gifted in the iield of philosophy for so comparatively young a man. He has been at Notre Dame since 1926. 
The teaching experience of Drs. Miltner and O'Grady has brought to the book a simplicit}', insofar as the subject permits, that appeals partic­ularly to the undergraduate or those desiring a comprehensive grasp of the fundamentals. But the real nature of the problems involved and the practical implications of this impor­tant subject have been retained,' in effect by the authors. 
From some 150 authorities referred to, it is obvious that the iield hag been covered in Father Miltner's usual exact style. The subject matter is treated in eighteen chapters, with topics for discussion appended to each, and, what is a valuable addition for student or alumnus, suggested reading in other authors on the par­ticular chapter subject . 
Readers of the book profit from the combined and unusually wide knowl­edge of the authors of their field, both historical and contemporary. References are from Aristotle to date. Those alumni who, like the Editor, received their Metaphysics under var­ious subjective and objective handi­caps can improve their I. Q. consid­erably •\vith the present volume. 
Daivn on Eternal Hills is the title of another literarj' gem from the pen of Eev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, A.B.'06, Ph.D. president of the Uni­versity. The fact that it is the funeral sermon which Father O'Don­nell preached on August first for the beloved alumnus, Francis O'Shaugh­nessy, '00, but adds to its merits. Unfortunately, from the general view­point, the volume is a private edition, printed by the Brevier Press, New York City, for the O'Shaughnessy family. 

More than half the book is occupied with a presentation of the beautiful doctrines of the Church that lighten the burden of death. The treatment contains that unmatched simple elo­quence of expression that seems to be peculiarly Father O'Donnell's. 
It is good for all Notre Dame alumni to know the tribute that Notre Dame paid to Frank O'Shaughnessy, and the Editor takes the liberty of quoting this particular excerpt: 
/ Francis O'Shaughnessy was an honor graduate of the University of Notre Dame and for the thirty years that have passed since his graduation he was the perfect alumnus. Un­selfish, whole-souled, he loved Notre Daine as a son loves his mother. He 
•was ready at all times to sen'e her. We mourn him as a brother. At Notre Dame it is the rule that when­ever a member of the Order dies, each priest offers the holy sacrifice of the Mass and each Brother offers up the rosary, the Way of the Cross, and Holy Communion for the repose of the soul of the departed. As soon as word of his death reached Notre Dame, the superiors of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross requested that the same suffrages which are offered for our own dead be offered for him. So far as I can learn, this is the first time in the history of our community that this has ever been done. By this unique tribute of affection and devo­tion and sorrowing pride, it will be seen that Notre Dame's love for him was not less than his love for Notre Dame. Where his beloved head rests, may Our Lady's hand smooth his pillow. ..." 
Two books have just come from the press of E. Herder, translated from the fifth French edition of the Eev. 

J. De La Vaissiere, S.J., by Eev. S. 
A. Eaemers, M.A., Ph.D. '29. The one is a second edition of Father Eaemers' translation of Elements of Experi­mental Psychology. The other is a newly published translation of Educa­tional Psychology. The former is in cloth, net $3, the latter in cloth, net $2.75. Father Eaemers is a member of the University faculty of Philoso­phy. 
Of the Elements, the following comment appears in The Common­weal: . . . This work, clearly organ­ized, clearly written, accurate and 

thorough, is exactly fitted to fill the present need . . . In his preface to Educational Psy­chology, Father Eaemers says: 
"For some une.\plainable reason Catholic scholars in English-speaking countries have, with few exceptions, held themselves aloof from the great problems of education and have either looked upon the recent findings in the field of education as meaningless meanderings or have ijui'posely neg­lected to acquaint themselves with the solutions offered. There are, as we have said, exceptions to this rule, but the exceptions are so few that they are practically negligible. For this reason. Catholic students of education have been forced to approach the study of educational problems by the aid of non-Catholic, if not at times anti-Catholic texts, and this admitted­ly is a serious drawback. On the other hand, not a few have looked upon many modern findings in this field as invalidating certain pivotal tenets of Scholasticism, when closer and moi-e impartial observation would have re­vealed in these new research methods not an enemy, but a sturdy ally of the same perennial truth. 
"The present volume may help to dissipate such unfounded fears. A good text-book of psychology as ap­plied to education from a Catholic standpoint has long been a desidera­tum. The problems of Catholic child­hood and of Catholic truth are at bottom the same for all, but the method of ai)proaeh must be different. It is to be hoped that the present translation of Father De La Vais­siere's learned work will receive a welcome, and will prove of some assistance to those who have sacri­ficed their lives that others may know, and in their knowledge live." 
SHUSTER IN EUROPE 

From The Comnioniveal, outstand­ing Catholic organ from the field of the laity, comes the following con­cerning George N. Shuster, A.B. '15, A.JL '20: "With the depai-ture of Mr. George N. Shuster, managing editor of this journal, on October 4 for a six months' stay abroad. The Conv­monweal wliich already owes so much to his vigorous editorial judgment, to say nothing about the inestimable benefits which have come to it through his writings, must console itself by the thought of what it will gain through his absence while doing its best to make up for what it is bound to lose . . . The primary cause of Mr. Shuster's journey was an in­vitation received from the Vereini­gung Carl Schurz to visit Germany, confer with its great leaders, and ex­amine at first hand its more notable institutions and various social move­ments. 
University Honors Gilbert K. Chesterton 
Notre Dame  
Confers  
Degree on  
Famous  By  
CatJiolic  LOUIS  
Aidlior and  HEITGER,  
British  Director  
Journalist  of  
in First  Publicity  
Special  
Convocation  
for Such  
Atvard  
RE\'EREXD CIIAKLES L.  O'DONNELL,  C.S.C,  PKESENTIXG  #>  

HoxoRABY LL.D. TO G. K. CHESTERTON-
Gilbert Keith Chesterton, who has, since October 6, been the guest of the University of Notre Dame, and who has, during that time, been intimately acquainted with the life and spirit of the university, had the honorary de­gree of Doctor of Law conferred upon him Wednesday afternoon, November 5, in Washington Hall. The man Chesterton, who has, during his long and varied career, accumulated a singularly distinctive number of achievements, received honor, and honored Notre Dame in being the re­cipient of the degree that was con­ferred upon him. 
His life has been as interesting as his accomplishments are colorful. First an Anglican, later a Catholic, and now — untimately — he is con­sidered the greatest living exponent of Catholic thought in the English-speaking world. As a poet, critic, essayist, novelist, economist, and so­ciologist, he is exceedingly well known, but qualify his efforts with the word Catholic and the sum of his achievements looms up all the more significant. 
During the past four weeks, Mr. 
Chesterton, in accordance with the arrangement.; made last year, has been giving two lecture courses at Notre Dame: one in Victorian Litera­ture and the other in Victorian His­torj'. His lectures have been thor­oughly indicative of his brilliance and native good humor. Seldom in the history of educational activities in the United States have such exhaustive and authoritative courses been offered to the student body of an American university. 
Many honorary degrees have been conferred by Notre Dame, but this is the first time in the history of the University that a special convocation of the Faculty has been called to par­ticipate in the conferring of a degree. Over a year ago the University planned to have Mr. Chesterton give a series of lectures at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, due to an illness, the object of these plans was not com­pleted until he began his lectures at the University in October. 
At four-thirty the academic proces­sion left the University parlors and made its way to Washington Hall 
where members of the Senior Class and the guests of the University were assembled. After an introductory musical program had been given by the University orchestra and Glee club. Father J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, Director of Studies, announced the conferring of the degree: "The University of Notre Danie, in this special convocation of the Faculty, confers the degree of Doctor of Law, honoris causa, on a man of letters recognized as the ablest and most in­fluential in the English-speaking world of today, a defender of the Christian tradition, whose keen mind, right heart, and versatile literary . genius have been valiantly devoted to the eternal truth, goodness, and beau­ty, in literature and in life — Gilbert Keith Chesterton, of London, Eng­
land." 
After conferring the degi-ee, the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, in ad­dressing his remarks to the Senior Class, said: "We are now approaching the end of Mr. Chesterton's engage­ment at Notre 'Dame, and needless to say, no one who has had the privilege of attending his lectures can help feeling grateful to the lecturer, and grateful to a benevolent Providence for allowing them to come about. 
"It is obviously difficult at this mo­ment to say all that is in our heart. Looking back, as we are now able to do, upon Doctor Chesterton's contribu­tion to the life of Notre Dame, the thing which I seize upon with the greatest possible satisfaction is that note of confident and triumphant Catholicity that has rung through these lectures, as it has sounded through all of the vastly serious work which has earned for this, our latest and most distinguished alumnus, not only the admii-ation and love of his fellow-Catholics, but the respect of all men who have the power of appreciat­ing the honesty, the courage, and the chivalry of a champion with whose cause they may not happen to agree. 
"Gentlemen of the Senior Class, I know of nothing finer that could be­tide you than to come into contact with such a spirit as that which has moved this great man in song and story, in labor and in sacrifice, even though some of you be not of the Faith which is both the inspiration and the reward of his tireless and herculean endeavors. And while in no sense expecting that Doctor Ches­terton will now deliver to you the Commencement Address of last year, I do ask him to speak to you what­ever he finds in his heart to say." In closing. Father O'Donnell struck the note of the true Notre Dame spirit, if not the spirit of universal Catholic Education. "But I can say to him of you that you are Notre Dame men, aware of the honor and the responsibility and, as life • runs, the peril, of that distinction." 
K. K. ROCKNE, BROKER 

Announcement has been made in the public press of the impending opening of a brokerage office in South Bend by Iv. K. Rockne, '14, director of athletics at Notre Dame, and Al G. Feeny, '14, Indianapolis, classmate and former teammate of Rock's on the Notre Dame elevens of their college days. The office will be a branch of 
R. H. Gibson & Co. Mr Rockne has announced that the new business will not interfere with his present duties at the University. 
FOREIGN PRESS PRAISES N. D. 

A clipping from the Catholic Press of Sydney, Australia, commends Notre Dame for refusing permission for the filming of a football comedy which w^as to ha^e had Notre Dame for a background. "Anyone acquaint­
Doctor Chesterton's response fol­lows (as closely as his beautiful, im­promptu reply could be recorded:) 
Father President, Reverend Fathers, Ladies and Gentlemen: 
I only wish it were possible for me to say, as you have suggested, some­thing of what is in my heart in the way of gratitude. Gratitude is what I feel most deeply at present, and it is the irony of human fate that it is perhaps the only thing that cannot be expressed. If I said all the things which are usually said on these occa­sions, I should only be expressing my feelings, for, in my case, they happen to be perfectly true. It is usual to say that one is not worthy of such an honor, and the vividness of my own unworthiness is so verj' acute in my own mind that I find it almost impossible to express it and to thank you for the far too generous things which have been said. I have given a series of lectures on a subject on which a number of you are much better acquainted than I. If I happen to say something about the history of the Victorian age, the history which I am supposed to talk about, or if I happen to say something about the Victorian Age in literature, I am all too painfully reminded that you have learned historj' and have studied liter­ature. If I mention the Province of Canada, I am reminded that you have studied geography. Therefore, I am afraid that I am not only unworthy but almost in a false position before you. I am a ioumalist, and the one thing I can claim is that I have en­deavored to show that it is possible to be an honest journalist. Therefore, a great academic distinction of this kind gives me a very strong sense of 
ed with academic history knows that the University already has a long and distinguished record of scholarship. But it also has, in common with two or three other seats of higher learn­ing, an immediate problem arising 
0.. 
STUDENT ENROLLMENT 

gratitude. I can only thank you from the bottom of my heart, not only for this favor extended to me, but also for the very great patience with which you have listened to my lectures. 
There is always a bond between us that would make you tolerant of me, I know. I have only once before gone through a ceremony of this kind and that was at the highly Protestant University at Edinburgh, where I found that part of the ceremony con­sisted of being lightly touched on the head with the cap of John Knox. I was very much relieved to find that it was not part of the ceremony on the present occasion that I should, let us say, wear the hat of Senator Heflin! I remember that, when I came to America before, about nine years ago, when I was not yet a Catholic, and when I had hardly realized that there were Catholics in America, my first sensation in this countrj- was one of terror. I recall the first landing and that great hotel in New York, the Biltmore, the name of which held for me such terrifying possibilities.(Sure­ly there would not be 'More' of it!) It all seemed strangely alien, al­though I quickly discovered what kind and generous people the Americans are. I did not feel at all like that when I came to America for the second time. If you want to know why I felt different, the reason is in the name of your University. That name was quite sufiicient as far as I was concerned. It would not have mattered if it had been in the moun­tains of the moon. Wherever She has erected Her pillars, all men are at home, and I knew that I should not find strangers. And, if any of you who are young should go to other countries, perhaps to my own, you will find that what I say is true. 
from the super-excellence of its ath­letics and the wildfire appeal which they make to a sports-crazed public. This action of the Notre Dame of­ficials is a dignified and admirable as­sertion of the proper balance." 
"S 
 1930-31 BY COLLEGES 

Following are the very interesting student enrollment figures for the present scholastic year, submitted to the ALUMNUS through the cour­tesj' of Rev. J. L. Carrico, '03, Director of Studies: 
= College Fresh. Sr>ph. Junior Senior Special Grail. Total i Arts and Letters-. 474 379 264 175 1 32 1,325 I A. B.—LL. B 5 56 61 i Science -• 158 47 42 52 17 317 Engineering . . 232 109 64 74 479 Law 8 26 42 79 Commerce . 349 234 181 142 911 
Total .1,221 769 582 541 10 49 3,172 
B 

Noveviber, 1930 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
0" 
•iiiiiiiiiiiiiii ••lllltlllltliiitlllltlllMIIIIIIIIIMIItllllMIHHIIMIIMIimiHUIIlltMliniHMtMltlNIIMI 
—H 

DITORIAL 

Wllllllllllllltlllllllllltllltlllllllllllllllllllltlllllll<lllll»tlltllll«lllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllltllll<<l»»lll>llltlttlllllllllllllllll»IIIIIIIMIIillllHIHtlllll«IIIUIIIMIIIIIIIItll|i IIHUIMItMtl JIHtttQ 
FIREMEN CROCHET 
Time, measured by the usual laboring day, is of rela­tive unimportance to the members of the fire department. By far the greater part of it for them (and fortunately) is spent in polishing the equipment of the department, keeping the ward voters favorable to the existing admin­istration, and a thousand diversions ranging from horse­shoe-pitching to fancy-work. 
But—when the gong sounds they are galvanized into swift and efficient action. The beautifully kept equipment responds immediately and effectively. Sirens screech. An authoritative path is opened through an admiring public. The fire hazard is overcome or minimized. The equipment is retux-ned to the barns and polished. The men resume their hobbies. 
Few taxpayers complain about the fire department. 
Alumni associations are not without similarities, though Heaven and any contemporary Secretary or Editor can rise to undreamed of emotional heights if you suggest that they have to do tatting or carve match boxes to fill the days. 
The point is to call to your attention those tedious hours of polishing the machinery of an Alumni Office. Uncounted details go on behind the frosted glass that fail to glare through to the outside world, yet bri:ig the staff out at five o'clock with haggard look. 
Since Al Eyan was first given the task, as editor of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS and later the first lay Alum­ni Secretary with an Office at Notre Dame, this polishing process has been going on. The roughest edges had of course been worn down through the pioneering efforts of those earlier officers who, with neither full time nor equip­ment, had presei-ved the necessary spark. 
Only now, as the culmination of those early efforts, is the Association beginning to appear in the brilliant red paint that will set it apart in traffic. Universal Notre Dame Night is an established national event. The First Club Council has been held with significant results. Living Endo\\-ment is being conducted through the Alumni Office with unlimited possibilities before^it. Individually the Local Clubs are doing what the entire Association would have trembled to attempt some years ago. The ALUM­NUS, we modestly believe, progi-esses. 
We cannot, however, burst daily from the campus in our new red paint, and race through the world, with sirens screeching and paths clearing. But it is stimulat­ing to know that, as long as we keep our machinery polished, when the pleasant alanns of Universal Notre Dame Night, Commencement, dedication of new Notre Dame buildings, and so on, do sound, the world steps aside in respect as the Alumni Association rushes to the fore. 
These things we want our "taxpayers" to know. They are indispensable. They are effective. We feel that, in a world of tax-dodging, they have cause for particular satisfaction. 
We mention all this now because Living Endowment is beginning, to a large extent, where the Association itself began years ago. We feel that it will profit im­measurably from the experiences of the older organization of which it is now a part. There is need for getting our equipment in order at the earlier possible date. And we want you to know that behind the scenes, to the best of the personal abilities involved, the equipment is being polished. 

"TO THE TEAM. 
The football season will be approximately seventy per-, cent completed when this issue of the ALUMNUS appears. Three difficult games remain on the Notre Dame schedule. But the ALUMNUS need not wait until the end of the season to congratulate the Notre Dame team. 
When Rock announced the ten games lined up for this Fall, it was immediately dubbed the "suicide schedule." Despite a goodly return of veterans, the loss of Cannon, Elder, Moynihan, Nash, and several other less publicized but stalwart squad members, was substantial. Sports writers, in justice to Eockne, recognized this.. 
The vigor and effectiveness with which the revamped 1930 Notre Dame team plunged into the season has been a gloi-ious reflection on the members of that team, on the coaching staff, and on a University which can inspire men so. 
Southern Methodist—Navy—Carnegie Tech—Pitt—In­diana—a major schedule in itself, has gloriously passed. Why wait longer to tell the team, to tell "Kock," "Hunk," Chevigny, Voedisch, Moynihan and the less conspicuous but important freshman coaches. Bill Jones and Vezie, that we appreciate their effort. It has been effort. The opening game produced mid-season footbalL Rock was too ill for Spring practice, a vital period in his plan of things. Hunk Anderson was back after several years' absence. Last year's successful assistant, Tom Lieb, was gone. The holes in the team had to be plugged with raw material. 
No matter what happens in the "second major sched­ule" of the 1930 season—Penn—^Drake—Northwestern— Army, and Southern California, as this is vfritten—con­gratulations are very much in order. 
The ALUMNUS is pleased to offer them. 
• •IIIIIIIIIMtl inimiiiii»iiiiiiiniiiniimniiniimn>p] 
ATHLETICS: 




"For It's The Hike, Hike, Hike of Victory" 
The ALUMNUS is not going to oc­cupy the limited space of the issue with the story, heroic as it is, of Notre Dame's 1930 victory march. The reason is that ever}' alumnus from Alaska to Key West, Paris to Manila in fact, knows not only the details of the games played but all those illuminating anecdotes that go vrith the spotlight and modern jour­nalism. 
For historical purposes, when the Alumni Office is excavated from some post-historic debris, a summary of the season to date of press is reprinted: 
NAVY 2, NOTRE DAME 26 The actual dedication game, in the new Stadium, October 11, was the only phase of the week-end in which hospitality was not complete, and even then the boys gave to the "Navy till it hurt. Joe Savoldi gave Three Oaks, Michigan, a big share in the day when he scored three of Notre Dame's four touchdowns. Staab, a substitute fullback scored the fourth. The game was never in doubt. Notre Dame scored 12 first downs to Navy's 7, but the yards gained—^Notre Dame, 352, Navy, 64—tell the story. Notre 
through them for Carnegie's only 
score. 
Barring that fleeting second of Plaid flag-waving, it was Notre Dame's game. Sixteen first downs were scored to Carnegie's 7; 261 yards overwhelmed 180 yards toward the N. D. goal. Notre Dame's passing functioned effectively for 87 yards in four completed passes of nine at­tempted. Carnegie gained well, 46 yards, by air, but completed only two of eight passes. For a change, Notre Dame was penalized only 15 yards while Carnegie was over-anxious at the cost of 35 yards. ICosky, end, and Conley, captain and end, brought the end-men of Rock's team into the scor­ing column with touchdowns as the direct results of passes. Kosky scored on a short pass over the line of scrim­mage while Captain Tom Conley ran 25 yards with a 33-yard pass. Marchy Schwartz accounted for the third score when he plunged over with a re­covered Carnegie fumble which had placed the ball on Carnegie's four-yard line. 
PITT. 19, N. D. 35 

Pittsburgh, last year's title claim­ants, had the distinction of being the first 1930 team to confirm the devas­tating power of the Notre Dame of­fensive. Heralded as the redeemers of the Carnegie defeat, they were set 
JLvRCHY SCHWARTZ 
Offe}tse 

Dame completed two passes of 10, while Navy completed six of 19, but Notre Dame with 66 yards by this route was only three yards behind the Midshipmen. Navy outpunted Notre Dame with a 37 yard average, and Notre Dame further aided them with 75 yards in penalties to fifteen for the visitors. 
CARNEGIE TECH 6, N. D. 21 

Carnegie Tech, not without a for­mid.ible advance barrage of publicity and an awesome history for Notre Dame behind them, advanced to the new Stadium and learned about foot­ball from Rock. An idea of Notre Dame's powerful, sustained defense can be gained from the only time the Notre Dame eleven seemed to relax— the speedy Eyth raced 70 yards 
"JujiPixG JOE" SAVOLDI 
"The People's Choice" 
CARIDEO—ALL-AMERICAN 1929 
Better in 1930 

November, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 111) 
back on their cleated heels when 
Marchy Schwartz, the Bay St. Louis 
edition of Christy Flanagan, took the 
ball on Notre Dame's first offensive 
play and carried it 60 yards to a 
touchdo^vn. The second score was 
chalked up on a 70-yard advance in 
8 plays, the third on seven more plays 
and the fourth a minute later when 
Joe Savoldi who "isn't very good on 
pass defense" intercepted a Pitt pass 
and ran 30 yards for a touchdown. 
Rock's reserves entered the game and 
added a fifth score before the half 
ended. In the second half the reserve 
strength was again employed and 
played all but the final minute or so 
of the game. Against them, the 
stunned Panther finally loosed once 
powerful claws and fought a terrific 
back-to-the-wall battle to score three 
touchdowns. Schwartz, MuUins, Sa­
voldi (2) and Koken, scored for 
Notre Dame. All Notre Dame's kicks 
after touchdown scored, Carideo 4 and 
Jaskwhich 1. 
Notre Darne scored 14 first downs to Pitt's eight and gained 237 yards from scrimmage to Pitt's 151. Notre Dame passed but once during the game and that was incomplete. Pitt completed three of ten passes for 57 yards, one being completed by penalty. Notre Dame was set back 35 yards, Pitt 10. 
INDIANA 0, N. D. 27 As Pitt was made happy in the last half, so Indiana fans must have relished the scoreless first half during 
•which a fighting Indiana eleven held back the more or less dispirited efforts of Notre Dame. Realizing in the last half that games are timed and only of certain duration, Notre Dame's regulars launched out in the style to which sport fans have become accustomed, and Savoldi, Schwartz and Brill piled up 27 points. It was Brill's first scoring for Notre Dame, and he celebi-ated by taking two, one 
BERT METZGEB—GUARD 

Yclept "Pistol—(Little Cannon)' 
MARTY BRILL 
Defense 

on an end run of 23 yards, the other after Schwartz was thrown a yard fi'om the goal by Ross after a 79-yard sprint. 
Notre Dame made 14 first downs, Indiana 5; Noti-e Dame gained 432 yai'ds from scrimmage, Indiana 76; Notre Dame completed only one of 14 passes for a gain of 13 yards. Indiana completed one of five passes for four yards. Indiana was penalized 35 yards, Notre Dame 40. 
GOOD ATTENDANCE Despite economic conditions, in the first six games of the season more than a quarter of a million persons have witnessed the Notre Dame games, distributed as follows: South-era Methodist, 20,000; Navy, 42,000; Carnegie Tech, 32,000; Pitt, 70,000; Indiana, 16,000; Penn, 72,000. 
TRACK GOING STRONG Gene Howrey, captain of the cross­country team, set a new record in a quadrangular meet with Northwest­ern, Illinois and Wisconsin, to win first place in Evanston October 24. The Notre Dame team, however, was defeated. Howrey's time for the three and three-quarters miles was 18 minutes, 56 seconds. 
CHARITY GAJIE OUT 

Practically all fans are familiar with the decision of the Big Ten faculty committee prohibiting the shifting of the Notre Dame-North­western game from Dyche Stadium to Soldier Field, the proceeds from the additional seats sold to go to chari­ties of Chicago, Evanston and South Bend. Both Notre Dame and North­western had agreed on the change. 
GOLF -MONOGRAMS 

The faculty board in control of ath­
letics has put the ofiicial stamp on 
golf as a recognized sport activity and 
minor monograms will be awarded to 
members of future golf teanis. The 
team last year won fourth place in 
the national intercollegiate meet, and 
Larry MoUer, captain, was in the 
finals of the individual matches. 
BASKETBALL OPENS Aside from the announcement of the opening game with Kalamazoo Col­lege on December 8, Coach George Keogan's 1930-31 schedule is not yet formed beyond the list of opponents given in an earlier issue. Final dates have not been 0. K'd. The squad is practicing and Coach Keogan is worrying in the best pre-season form. Coaches Donovan and Jachjrm are shaking out 150 freshmen for 1931-32 material. INTERHALL STRONG Interhall football is coming to the close of a very successful season with all indications pointing to the finals being betiveen St. Edward's and Walsh. The race in the two leagues has been spirited. 
TOMMY YARK, CENTER 

"Tliar's Yarr in them holes" 



UNIVERSITY DEDICATES STADIU/ 
Celebrities From Ail Walks of Life Present-Valley Club Handles Housing of CrolA/ 
Prcaidoit Frank E. Hcr'mg G'niny DciUcutorii Address 

Tlie Notre Dame Stadium was dedi­cated witli the impressiveness and beauty of its own construction in ceremonies on October 10 and 11. On the night of October 10, Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, opened t!ie dedicatory exercises with a dinner to a hn-ge party of invited guests in the Lay Faculty Dining Room of the University Dining Halls. 
At 8 o'clock in the Stadium, some 20,­OCO parsons, including the students of the University, enjoyed addresses by Father O'Donnell, K. K. Rockne and Rear Admiral S. S. Robison, supsrin­tendent of the U. S. Noval Academy. Father O'Donnell's talk outlined the background of the sane athletic program at Notre Dame that has culminated in the construction of the Stadium. Rock's address expressed the ideals of sports­manship Notre Dame injects into her football and the admiration the Uni­versity and its teams have for the opponents they play, especially the serv­ice schools. Navy and Army. Rear Ad­miral Robison responded to this tribute by the highest praise of Notre Dame's place in the sports world in general and 
Father O'Donnell, Gor. Leslie and Xury Officers at Flur/ Raising 

in the schedule of the Naval Academy in particular. Student cheering and singing, the University Band and an im­pressive fireworks display concluded the program, which was presided over by Professor Clarence JIanion. 
Saturday at 1:45, Frank E. Hering, 'i)8, former captain and coach of the Notre Dame team, a member of the Board of Lay Trustees, and president of ths Alumni Association, delivered the in­si)iring address which the .ALUMNUS was privileged to reprint in the October issue. 
The team's success against the gallant Navy eleven is history, details of which ai)p3ar in the -Athletics section. 
Distinguished guests and hundreds of alumni were generously sprinkled over the crowd of some .50,000 who attended. Besides the Naval ofiicsrs present. Gov­ernor Leslie, Senator LaFoUette, Con­gressman Hickey, and a number of lum­inaries of the political world were on hand. Alumni registration for the dedi­cation is listed by Classes in the next few columns of this issue. The beret of J. P, SIcEvoy was conpicuous in the West Stand boxes. 
The University and Studebaker Bands were present in the stands, the Notre Dame organization playing the "Star Spangled Banner" at the raising of the flag before the game. The Navy's music was furnished by the High School Band of Elkhart, Ind. 
Before the gam.e K. K. Rockne was presented with a trophy cup by the Ro­tary Club of South Bend bearing the fol­lowing inscription: "In appreciation of the Stadium which represents Notre Dame, South Bsnd, and the courage, sportsmanship and vigor of the boys who play on the teams. 
One of the impressive features of the week-end was the receipt by the Uni­versity of beautiful floral pieces from those schools appearing on the 1930 Notre Dame schedule. Notable among these was one from Southern Methodist University, defeated by Notre Dame the preceding week. 
Reception of the Stadium by the pub­lic and by students and alumni has been uniformly enthusiastic. Notre Dame, for years in the van of national football, has long been considerably handicapped in major home games thiough lack of facilities for crowds. This tradition has resulted this year in far from capacity crowds in any but the Dedication gami. 
SAVOLDI CRASHES X;Y F 
"The Peoiiti's ^oici 
whereas the games away from homJ have been consistent sell-outs in muclj larger stadia. Economic conditions ha^ of course played a pai-t, as witness tliS gaping stands behind many an actiorj photo in contemporary games. 
The inevitable summary is that thi| new Stadium is structurally ornamental encouraging to the spirit of team an(j student, somewhat constructive finiii cially, assuming average crowds over : period of seasons, and certainly in keep ing with the Notre Dame football tradi tion. A few persons have complaine about seats in the structure, but Riplej) I must have material. 4 J 
November, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

lUM WITH-FITTING CEREMONIES 
sent; Rockne Honored; Team Wins; St. Joseph ^rojA/ds; Speeches Friday Night In Stadium 
l)ub-.V.IVV GAME ViSITORS 
becn Following are the names of those e, for alumni who registered at the Blue Circle 1, has information booths for the Stadium Ded­ed in 
ication week-end. There were unques­k of n has 
tionably more alumni here, but the Pin­)acity kertons are no longer on the camjius. gami. The Editor thanks those co-operating. 
lES X.Y FOR TYPICAL GAIN /j/tV oice" ill Action 
horn lSi:9 mud Jlonty McGinley, Lafayette, Indiana. = ha^ 
JS9i 

ss til 
M. D. Kirby, Lansing, Michigan. aetior 
1S95 

Hon. A. P. Hudson, Charleston, W. Va. 
u th( lental 1900 n an( 
A. A. McDonell, St. Paul, Minnesota. 
finiii )ver 19U9 kec-p John B. Kanalley, Chicago, Illinois. tradi 
191J

rlaine Riple. 
Dr. D. JI. Nigro, Kansas City, Jlissouri. James W. O'Hara, Chicago, Illinois. 
191i 

D. R. Shouvlin, Springfield, Ohio. 
1915 

Harold S. Lower, Gary, Indiana. 
1910 

V. C. Scully, Evanston, Illinois. 
191T 
George B. Reinhardt, Kansas City, 5Io. Tad J. Walsh, Los Angeles, California. 
1919 

Joseph J. Klee, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
19JU 
H. L. Leslie, Waverly, Iowa. 
F. J. Slackford, Cleveland, Ohio. George P. Walsh, Cleveland, Ohio. 
1931 
Bill Foley, Chicago, Illinois. 
George C. Witteiied, Chicago, Illinois. 
1932 

W. T. Dwyer, London, Ohio. James E. JIurphy, Bridgeport, Conn. Jim Shaw, Des Moines, Iowa. -Arthur C. Shea, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
193-J 
John W. Gleason, Cleveland, Ohio. James W. Welch, Rochester, New York. William L. Voss, Ji-., Hai-vey, Illinois. 
193i 
E 
. L. Chaussee, Detroit, Michigan. Charles J. Cooper, Fort Worth, Texas. 

L.
 C. Heringer, Davenport, Iowa. 


1935 
W. R. Bell, Rochester, New York. Ted Bintz, Fi-emont, Ohio. John P. Hurley, Toledo, Ohio. 
W. C. Neu, Des Moines, Iowa. 
R. JL Worth, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
193G 
Dr. B. D. Coughlin, St. Louis, Missouri. Ed. Prendergast, St. Louis, JMissouri. 
1937 
W. M.,Holland, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
193S 
Louis F. Buckley, South Bend, Indiana. William V. Lawler, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
A'. K. Rockne With Rotary Trophy 

Robert J. iMohlman, Lafayette, Indiana. 
E. A. Tehan, Jr., Springfield, Ohio. Lawrence Wingertei-, Des Moines, Iowa. 
1939 
Joseph Canty, Logan, Ohio. 
P. Charleton, Lakewood, Ohio. 

W. Ii-vin Corcoran, Chicago, Illinois. Joseph Harold Kelly, Endicott, N. Y. Anthony J. Kopeeky, Chicago, Illinois. 
J. V. Lenihan, New York City. Joseph Mulhall, Owosso, Michigan. 

J. E. KroU, Rock Island, Illinois. William S. O'Connor, Indianapolis, Ind. Al Scherex', Copenhagen, New Yor-k. Fred J. Wagner, Tiffin, Ohio. Andrew Amen, Jr., Daj-ton, Ohio. 
19 JO 

Harry A. Busscher, South Bend, Indiana. Chailes J. Esola, East Chicago, Indiana. John D. Golden, Chicago, Illinois. Jlorton R. Goodman, Chicago, Illinois. Bart McHugh, Cincinnati, Ohio. John E. Motz, Kitchener, Ontario. Tom Purcell, Oak Park, Illinois. John Rocap, Indianapolis, Indiana. James J. Wood, Springfield, Ohio. 
Impressive Flag Raising Ceremonies Before Game 

St Joe Valley Alumni ScoreClub Triumph 
Civic Housing Campaign Establishes Club asPower inCommunity and University Affairs; Plans, for Annual Football Banquet Are Taking Shape; To be Held December 11, University Dining Halls. 
This article is taken away from the Local Alumni Club section because the achievement with which it primarily deals is bigger than any on record, in its combined physical scope and psy­chological significance. 
Notre Dame's new Stadium, with a capacity of 54,0C0 people, presented in its earliest conception a problem to South Bend and Notre Dame in hous­ing the great part of this crowd who would come from outside the city. Both city and school turned over plans and proposals. A new hotel in South Bend was only a whisper in answer to the actual needs. Time passed and the Stadium materialized. 
But in the meantime, the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley had emerged from the natural gloom that shrouds all alumni organizations in their early stages, particularly civic, and through its annual football banquet, its student loan plan, and the community leadership of its members, had won a merited and dignified place in the South Bend sun. The Uni­versity was not unappreciative of this organization, which was and is doing inestimable good in unifying Uni­versity and civic interests toward mutual advancement. 
As a result, with the pi-omised co­operation of South Bend civic or­ganizations, the University appointed the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley as the official housing commit­tee in connection with the Stadium dedication. In addition, the Club was made the official reception committee for the receiving, housing and enter­taining (outside formal program events) of the distinguished guests invited by the University for the Dedication. 
The Club hired Jlr. Edward Bonds, prominent South Bend business man (retired) and secretary of the Rotary Club, to handle the civic housing cam­paign. The Rotary Club co-operated by contributing the use of the Rotary office in the Oliver hotel. A stenogra­pher, later two, aided Mr. Bonds. Both South Bend newspapers ran, free of charge and for several weeks, a Civic Housing Plan coupon to be filled out by all persons having extra rooms available for out-of-town guests for one or two nights during the football season. (The Club plans to carry this accommodation beyond the season's leading game, wherever circumstances warrant.) 
Response was immediate and gen­eral. Some of the finest homes in the city were offered to the committee for the entertainment of guests. For those homes not knowTi to the mem­bers of the Club, the committee left nothing to the fortunes of the guests. Six captains were selected, to choose teams of their own, and the addresses were distributed for the various zones into which the rooms were divided. The captains or members of their teams visited each of these homes and inspected the accommodations. Every room assigned was recommended by a member of the Club. The captains were Harry Richwine, Harold Weber, Walter Rauh, L. A. Kolupa, W. N. Bergan, and W. J. Andres. -Accom­modations for more than five thousand persons were available at the time of the Naw game. 
As it happened, such was South Bend's long-standing reputation for hotel accommodations that the great majority of out-of-town visitors had arranged to avoid an over-night stay. Special train visitors remained in their cars. The hotels found hitherto undreamed of space, and the facilities of the Club were a long ways from exhausted. 
However, those persons who enjoyed the prepared hospitality seemed uni­formly pleased. 'This is the Stadium's first year. The Club, or some other agency, will, under present plans, maintain a similar arrangement dur-­ing subsequent seasons. Assuming that crowds will be no less than this year, the prospects are for growing demands upon such a housing com­mittee. When the Notre Dame out­of-town public is educated to the pos­sibilities of securing adequate and recommended rooming facilities in South Bend at normal prices, a very substantial number of persons can be-estimated to remain at least one night in the city to enjoy those many rami­fications of a visit to Notre Dame of which the football games are so fre­quently the center. 
Robex-t McAuliife, chairman of the reception committee, enlisted the co­operation of suKty-sEveh of the leading business and professional men of South Bend in the task of receiving the guests of the University for the week-end. All South Bend civic clubs offered their assistance. 
The officers of the Club and its members have been commended by all concerned for the work of the Club. 
FOOTBALL BANQUET DEC. 11 
Neighboring Clubs, particularly, will be interested to learn of the pre­liminary announcements by M. A. Donahue, chairman of the executive committee of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, of the -Annual Civic Testimonial Football Banquet, which has become a feature not only of the Club's annual program, but of the St. Joe Valley. 
The banquet will be held on the night of Dec. 11 in the University Dining Halls. 
Knute K. Rockne, '14, has consented to be toastmaster for the occasion. There is no need of adding that the usual brilliant array of guests will grace the occasion. It is the aim of the committee this year to intensify the program rather than to elaborate it. With this in mind, a large group of prominent guests with but one or two actual speakers is the proposed arrangement. With Rock wielding the gavel, there is little worry except that the evening, no matter how long, will be too short. 
Tickets will be limited to a smaller number than last year, when the crowd was really too great for even the thousand-capacity Dining Hall wing. Considering economic condi­tions, the Club has decided to con­tinue the former price of three dollars a -ticket. With the excellence of the meal, and the magnitude of the guest list and entertainment, this leaves little margin, but the Club objective is to enable all alumni to attend. 
As always, alumni from nearby cities are welcome. Reservations should be made early as possible, be­cause a limited number of tickets will be printed and when these are dis­tributed—closed shop. Reservations may be made through M. A. Donahue, Northern Indiana Public Service Co., South Bend, Ind. 
CLUB DANCE SUCCESS 

The official Pre-Dedication Dance, given by the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley in the Knights of Columbus ballroom, South Bend, on the night preceding the Dedication of the new Stadium, was well attended. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students joined with alumni and visitors in the dance crowd. J. H. B. McCarthy, chaii-man of the dance, reported that in every respect the affair was suc­cessful. 
FOOTBALLS OR HAND GRENADES? 
To the cricket field of old England, the world owes a tardily acknowl­edged debt, for on them was born and nurtured the modern idea of sportsmanship. 
Sportsmanship is more than a word to be bandied about by college yell leaders and newspapermen. It is an attitude towards the other fellow. It is a philosophy of living, if a football coach may be allowed so scholarly an expression. It is, I am sure, one of the really big things of our day. And it all started in England. 
Of course, the ancient Greeks had their athletic competitions, but their games would mean little to modems had not English sport traditions pre­pared men for the Olympic revival. During the Middle Ages people for­got how to play. They said it with lances in those days when steel or brass trousers and vests were in style. 
Then, a few hundred years ago English school boys developed the no­tion of playing games just for fun. The old chivalric idea of doing your best and letting the other fellow do the same, was transferred to the cricket fields of Eton and HaiTow, Oxford and Cambridge. And "play cricket" became the English expres­sion for playing hard, and accepting defeat without humiliation or victory without gloating. 
The athletic competition idea in recent years has taken vigorous root in the New World. Thanks to such straight-shooting athletic mentors as Walter Camp, of Yale, "Grand Old Man" Stagg, of Chicago, and George Huff, of Illinois, the United States has built up a fine set of sport tradi­tions. And so has Japan, and India, and Australia and Prance, and almost even- other nation of the world. 
Sportsmanship is simply a corol­lary of the Golden Rule. You want to play your best; hence, you take no advantage that will prevent the other fellow from doing the same. You re­spect him, as you want him to respect you. You give and take on a fifty-fifty basis. You play the game. And when it is over, there are no whines nor excuses. You both have done your best. 
We teach sportsmanship in foot­ball. Last fall, when our team from Notre Dame went up against North­western University in Dyche Stadium at Evanston, Illinois, one Notre Dame man had an injured muscle in his side. The Northwestern trainer came around and offered him the use of a protective appliance — offered it to a 
By Knute K. Rockne 
(Courtesy Rotary Magazine) 

player of the rival team! Not only that, but just before the kick-off, the Northwestern man who was to play opposite our fellow, came up and said: 
"They tell me you have a sore spot. Where is it?" Our man showed him. Did the Northwestern player take ad­vantage of his information? He did not. Our chap played forty-five min­utes, and his sore spot was never touched. 
That is sportsmanship. We need such sportsmanship every­where and everj' day. We need it be­cause there are ill-tempered men and women in homes and offices. We need it because there are road hogs on the highways and political meddlers in public positions. We need it because of bootleggers and other social im­pedimenta. Sportsmanship not only proWdes a principle of action, but a scale of values for generous judg­ment. 
As the fine spirit of sportsmanship develops in athletic competitions, men bring it into other relationships. They introduce it into domestic situations. They apply it in meetings of boards of directors, where unfair advantages could be taken. They are beginning to use it in national politics. May we hope it will some day be extended to the field of international relations. For, probably what the world most needs today is a spirit of sportsman­ship among nations. 
When one suggests such a possibi-Ity, he cannot be accused of being visionary. Already in tennis, golf, soccer, yachting, and track competi­tion, we see young, spirited men com­peting in international games. The sportsmanship engendered in such contests cannot but have repercus­sions in other activities that cross and recross national boundaries. 
At the last Olympic contests at Amsterdam, I saw an incident that stands out in my mind. And yet it is typical of many. The great Eng­lish athlete Lowe ran the half mile in record time. With a beautiful, daz­zling burst of speed he left the field almost literally standing still, and flashed into the tape several lengths ahead of his rivals. 
Winners of the race were an­nounced, and from the great pole floated the English flag. Below^ it was the Swedish, and below that the Ger­man, second and third winners, re­spectively. The applause was like the roar of a tremendous salute from a 
• fleet of battleships. 
Where were the athletes? There they went across the field, Lowe in the center with his arms affectionately about the men he had just beaten. They were chatting companionably, the English, the Swedish runner, and the German. Then the 40,000 people cheered again. This time it was loud­er than before. It tvas an impressive sight, for just ten years before, had these boys been of military age, two of them would in all probability have been fighting each other with bayo­nets, shrapnel, and poison gas in the slime and stench of the trenches. 
In 1925 Shimidzu was captain of the Japanese Cup tennis team. France and Japan had reached the final round which would decide which country would compete with the United States. Quite unexpectedly, Lacoste, French ace, was defeated in the first match by Harada of Japan, and Cochet was barely able to escape defeat from Tawara. Borotra, hero of the French courts, who could probably have saved the day for France, arrived on the second day of the matches. Though he was not ofiicially nominated, and hence ineligible, Shimidzu earnestly suggested he play the following after­noon anyway. It was a beau geste of sportsmanship that is still remem­bered in the tennis world. 
And so it goes, wherever men get together in athletic rivalry, there you will find sportsmanship. Who can measure the influence of grizzled old Sir Thomas Lipton in promoting am­ity between England and the United States by his dogged persistence in attempting to regain the America's cup? Bobby Jones, with his steady hand, has been almost as effective an "ambassador of goodwill" in Europe as Lindbergh. 
The world needs sportsmanship. The rules of fair play and clean play must be read into international poli­tics and economic relations, if univer­sal peace is to come and to stay. 
It used to be said that music was. the international language. That is still true, I suppose, but there is an­other international language that all of us should master. It is the fine language of sportsmanship, first de­veloped in England and since exported even to surprisingly remote comers of the earth. It is a natural Espe­ranto, for all men soon learn to understand it, regardless of the color of their skin, the length of their bodies, or their political parties. 
Opinions will vary as to the game that best lends itself to promoting international sportsmanship. Some will vote for tennis, some for yacht­ing, and others for golf. Baseball and track, too, have their devotees, but I cast my ballot for football—and, of course, the kind that is played in the United States. Years of exper­ience with football of the i-ough-and­tumble variety has convinced me it is unsui-passed for bringing out the fine qualities of a young fellow. Some soccer is played in the United States, and our soccer teams take part in international matches. I wish that our overseas' cousins would develop football elevens similarly to meet our American teams on the gridiron. 
So, I would respectfully suggest football as a substitute for bloodshed. I believe my professional friends would classify it under the high-flown title of "a moral equivalent for war." Let it go at that—providing we mean the same thing. 
In football young men can give ex­pression to that fundamental urge for combat that arises from an exuber­ance of red blood and animal spirits. Man has it in him, and if he doesn't get it out of his system one way, he will another. Some peoples, in times past, have expressed it in war. 
In football, more than any other 
sport unless it be boxing, one sees 
conflict in its essential elements. In 
pugilism, it is one man against an­
other, a personal encounter. But in 
football you have a socialized clash. 
Here are eleven men, organized to a high degree of co-ordinated efBcien­cy, with each unit trained to physical perfection and schooled to meet situa­tions. 
The signals are given. There is a clump-clump of cleated shoes, the swish of grating drill breeches. The ball is snapped, and the lines charge. Bang! It is every man for himself. Up to that point, each player has been a part of a mobUe machine, a unit in the social group. Then for an instant —or several instants, if he is lucky— he emerges and is an individual striv­ing against, giving his best to out­rival the man who tries to stop him. 
That is the picture of society, too; and I don't care whether you are thinking of an old-fashioned debating club, a Rotary club, a national govern­ment, a League of Nations, or man­kind at large. Football epitomizes better than anyother sport the give­and-take process of civilization. That is why I am so strong for foot­ball. It trains boys to become men. It puts in the back part of a fellow's head some never-to-be-forgotten ideas of how a gentleman can give his best to overcome an opponent, and still be a gentleman. 
A man who can be a gentleman on a football field can be a gentleman any\vhere—'and what is more to the point, will. If I had my way, I would teach young men of all countries to reach for a football instead of a hand grenade. 
Yes, I would like to see interna­tional football. It would do a lot to perpetuate and increase that fine old English spirit of sportsmanship among the young fellows of the world — and they're the chaps who really count, you know. It would give them lessons in fair dealing and respect for others they wouldn't forget when it comes their turn to run affairs. 
I look through the eyes of a foot­ball coach, and speak the words of the gridiron when I say what is most needed in business and politics, na­tional or international, is more sports­manship. The most encouraging thing on the horizon is the developing spirit of fair play among young men. Our fathers didn't know of international sports on the scale we do. The move­ment is growing. That is why I am an optimist. 

Student of '50's Recalls Early Notre Dame Fame 
First Football Team in Late '50's; Apple Orchard Stadimn; W. H. Crane Prominent Notre Dame Actor of Period; Corby Excelled Hackett. 
It is seldom that the ALUMNUS has the pleasure of using a document so rich in history and so interesting in presentation as the following letter (used in part) from Thomas Clarke, a student at Notre Dame in '58, '59 and '60, to his sister, who attended her Class Reunion at St. Mary's last year. Mr. Clarke, who is 82 years of age, typed the letter himself, from Palatka, Florida, where he has lived for fifty years. (Italics are the Editor's.) 
"Well, you are back at St. Mary's for the "glorious alumni reunion," and you express the usual picture-postal­wish-you-were-here, ostensibly to be impressed by the vast improvement incident to this progressive age, etc. 
"Nature had everything to do with making St. Marj''s beautiful. Civili­zation and progressive art have made a different picture of it. My recollec­tion of Notre Dame is not particularly associated with natural scenic beauty. My first sight of it was from the Bertrand road; it was early spring; the roads were muddy; we turn to the left, pass a pond in a marl bed with an unsightly lime-kiln; around the comer of an ancient orchard with scragly limbs and up the court to the main building. 
"This old orcJiard was the first football stadium of Notre Dame, and, as a shining member of the 'Gimiiacs' I took part in the first game. 
"As Notre Dame has put itself on the map with especial reference to this branch of its "sports curriculum," I think it is apropos to refer to an early incident in its football history. 
"The Gimnac association was orig­inally organized to promote and ex­ploit the appliances of the gymnasium and the various athletic contraptions scattered about the campus. 
"Beside the usual recess periods, two days in the week were recognized by us as recreation days — Wednes­days and Sundays. For instance Wed­nesday: the entire aggregation of seniors line up before the main build­ing; thence to Church and a brief morning mass; thence back in line— inspection — break ranks. At this stage, the Gimnacs forai en masse— 
J. H. O'Brien of New York, Coach. "At this date there were 25 or 30 members and they consisted of the leading lights in gymnasium and field activities. Thus in line, two move­ments in calisthenics—all in unison— were generally made, and thence to the parallel bars. This was a con­test. Two horizontal bars, 3% feet, IS inches apart, 10 feet long. The contest consisted in swinging upright, supported by arms and hands holding on to the bars; a slight swing and drop — bending elbows, lowering the whole carcass and shoulders close to the bars. Then up and forward—skip in skips to clear the bars. The num­ber of skips were tallied against you. Jack Earley of Terre Haute could make it (sometimes) in three skips. Thence, on to the turning bar, the high jump, trapeze, etc. Our first 
field activity was cricket. The inter­est in this died an early and natural death and was succeeded by football. 

"We hacked along amongst our­selves, eliminating and replacing until we developed an invincible eleven. We scouted around, picking up scrub teams and taking them over to the old orchard and wiping up the ground with them. 
"At that time there were quite a number of students from Kentucky. Some of them were long, lank, lean wry giants. They came dressed up in their very best butternut jeans. Delaney of Ky. — a believer in the Blue Grass region, its thoroughbreds the same, although I had had an alibi through being an infirmary pa­tient. Although not entirely abandon­ing the wiles of the Gym, a "change came over the spirit" and I became an ardent Thespian. 
"Harry Pratt was the heart and soul of this order. He was bom within the wings and boards and stage traps of a theater—his father tvas stage carpenter at McVicker's of 
Chicago.  Harry  Pratt  was  famoiis  
on  the  stage  years  aftenvard  as  W.  
H. Crane.  

seven points I met thus," then Prince Hal calls him down: "Now Jack, mark how a plain tale will put you down— we two set upon you four, and yon did nm and bellow like a bull calf." The momentary embarrassment, the cunning expression, the quirk and leer on his face as he brazenly an­swered, "I knew you all the time Hal," is indelibly stamped in memory, evidence of rare artistic ability. 
"Mike Corby was a younger brother of Rev. Father Corby, who succeeded Father P. Dillon as vice-president and later as president of Notre Dame. 
NOTRE DAJIE OP THE APPLE ORCHARD STADIUM 
"It was on the occasion of the birth day of Father Patrick Dillon. We gave the play "Rory O'Moore"— staged in the auditorium over the gymnasium. My recollection of this centers upon the masterly rendition of the character Rory by Mike Corby. 
"The next event was Shakespeare's First Part of Iving Henry IV. The cast was: Tim Corcoran of Cincinnati, "Prince Hal;" M. Brovm of Cleve­land, "Percy Hotspur;" Harry Pratt, "Sir Walter Blount;" myself as "Douglas," and Mike Corby as "Fal­staff." 
"Again my recollection centers on the masterly manner in which Mike Corby rendered the character of Fal­staff. I have seen Hackett in the same character, but Corby — in my opinion — had him skinned. I recall particularly the scene where Falstaif comes on and roars, ".A. plague upon all cowards." He proceeds to relate his adventure with a progressive num­ber of adversaries, and as he comes to the declaration that, "four of their Mike was enrolled in the roster as professor — his sole job instructor to the classes in penmanship. That he did not in later years develop into a threatrical shining light, has always been to me an item of sentimental disappointment. 
"Well—it was not intended to give such a long song-and-dance version of my early recollections, just simply to mention an incident. In-as-much as N. D. is at present in the lime­light through its sports curriculum and its famous coach Knute Rockne, I naturally called to mind its first coach, O'Brien, and its ludicrous be­ginning. ... " 
(Editor's note: The reminiscence of 

W. H. Crane recalls also tliat James O'Neill, another famous actor, was a student at Notre Dame. Mr. O'Neill married Miss Ellen Qtiinlan, of the St. Mary's class of 1872. They were the parents of the popular Eugene O'Neill.) 
•and its men, organized a crew and challenged the Gimnacs. The stake was a keg of beer. What those butternut-clad crackers did to the Gimnacs that day was a plenty. 
"I was not in the game that day, owing to an 'incident' a few days previously which had laid me up with a bandaged neck, but I had a good look-in on the scrimmage from the upper senior's dormitory S. W. win­dow. Under the uncertain rules of those days, brute force and co-opera­tive mass production of it on the part of that butternut brigade, enabled them to run right over invincibles in every tackle or interference. 
"My impression of football, upon witnessing the result at that event, has been lasting, that it is a genteel e.Khibition of "main strength and awk­wardness." Nothing more was ever heard of the Gimnacs. The Olympic Gazette announced its requiem by a pertinent allusion to the "Old Guard" and the battle of Waterloo. 
"The chagrin of defeat hit me just 
/^ 

••III Ill 
H 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
iiDitioKitiiiiMtiiaiiaiDiii) 
"0 
ALBANY 
A letter from Jack Huether, Presi­dent of the Club is as follows: 
"Dear Jim: The Notre Dame Club of Schenec­tady, Albany and Troy, wish to thank you for your attention in sending us moving picture films of the campus for showing at our stag dinner at the Van Curler hotel in Schenectady, eve­ning of October 23rd. 
We were greatly pleased with the films as they are certainly very good and hope that at some time the As­sociation will see fit to take many more including a broader scope of "shots," perhaps aerial views etc. For some of us old timers especially, who have not been back to the school for several years, it was indeed a pleasure to see all the new buildings that have grown up and also to rec­ognize in the pictures of 1930 Com­mencement a number of old faces who will always be representative of the school. Fortunately our camera was one that could be stopped when we came to a particular scene and there were cries of "there is Rock," "there goes the Four Horsemen," "look at the golf course," and "no white knick­ers in my time." 
In addition to the pictures we had a very enjoyable time at the dinner. Refreshments were sen-ed. C. G. Topping played the piano and we sang old and new school songs." 
BUFFALO 
Paul Hoeffler ci-ashes through with lots of dope, as usual: 
Follo\ving are excerpts from the letters: "A ,few weeks ago I ran across the Hanrahan family, who have a son, Vincent, '22, (an engineer of note and a tennis player beyond a doubt and as for bridge he can't be beat, so his sister says.) Vince is down in Philadelphia with Brock and Weymouth, aerial engineers. He is doing right well by our profession, so they say. 
"We had a meeting over at the Statler Hotel which drew some crowd. Tliis coming Monday, November 10, another big meeting at the Lake Shore home of Gordon Bennett's; a large free feed will be oifered as bait. Boy, but you should see that bait disappear. 
"The Christmas dance is about all settled: Marty Travers, '30, George Doyle, '30, and Joe Shea, '26, are the boys responsible for this work. 
"The annual meeting will be held on its usual date, December 13, and all the new officers will be elected. The Annual football dinner is under the direction of Biff Lee, '12, this year. I have no dope on that because he is keeping whatever he knows under his hat." 
CINCINNATI 
The Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati has been doing things this year and is rapidly working itself alongside the leading clubs of the country. New officers have been elected and are as follows: E.. C. McHugh, '09, Presi­dent; Bernard Hugger, '29, Treas­urer, and W. D. ("Hogan") Morris­sey, '26, Secretarj'. The Executive Committee will be headed by Leo V. Dubois, 0. s. '15; El. '27, Chairman; James E. Mitchell, Harry V. Crumley, '03, Lawrence Janszen, o. s. '09-10, El. '26, and Jack Heilker, '30. 
The ALUMNUS takes this oppor­tunity to congratulate the new officers and wish them a successful year. 
The Club is endorsing an all ex­pense trip to the Notre Dame-Army game in November. The trip is a per­sonally conducted one, given by the Cosmopolitan Tours Company, Cincin­nati. "Preparations are being made to handle up to 175 persons on an all steel train with newest type pullman, dining car and club service. Choice seats for the game have been obtained for the entire party and all arrange­ments have been made with personal comfort in mind. The Cincinnati-Notre Dame Club heartily endorses this trip and urge all who wish to go to make their reservations early." 
CHICAGO 
Plans are rapidly nearing comple­tion for the week-end of the Army-Notre Dame game. With the eyes of the world on Chicago, November 29, the alumni are making elaborate preparations and promise that no one will be disappointed. 
Things will start to happen, official­ly, on Friday night at six o'clock, with an informal stag dinner which will be held at the Lake Shore Athletic Club. Eddie Gould, '23, is chairman of the aff'air and John B. Kanaley, '09, will serve as toastmaster. The notables who have been invited to represent Notre Dame and Army at the speak­er's table have accepted. Attendance is limited to si.x hundred pei-sons and all reser^'ations must be endorsed by a member of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
And for Saturday night—the Notre Dame Club of Chicago invites you to the Army Ball, in the gold room and balloon room of the Congress Hotel. Formal .. . ten o'clock . . . Maytag Orchestra (a Gene Goldkette band under the direction of Victor Young) . . . Tom Gerun and his Orchesti-a. 
The hosts and hostesses include: Monsignor Thomas V. Shannon; Rev­erend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C; Mr. and Mrs. Ernest R. Graham; Mr. and Mrs. Edward N. Hurley; Mr. and Mrs. Samuel InsuU; Mr. and Mrs. Marcus A. Kavanaugh; Mr. and Mrs. 
D. F. Kelly; Mr. and Mrs. Wilhelm Middleschulte; Mr. and Mrs. Knute K. Rockne; Mr. and Mrs. ICickham Scan-Ian; Mr. and Mrs. Frank T. Fitzsim­mons; Dr. Richard J. Tivnen. 
Richard L. Halpin, '27, is in charge of the dance. All resen-ations must be . made in advance. Only twelve hundred persons can be accommodated. 

As though the prospects of the Army game were not enough to keep all the Chicago alumni occupied be­tween now and November '29 the Office received an announcement from, the Club of a luncheon given October 31 in the Ivory Room, Mandel Brothers, at which time Charles But­tenvorth, '24, was the honor guest. Charles Buttenvorth needs no intro­duction to the alumni. Everybody knows that he is the star in "Sweet Adeline," now plajing in Chicago, and that after leaving Notre Dame he toured the United States at the e.\­pense of the Orpheum Circuit, alone, and with Ralph Duhmke, '24, (the same Duhmke who now entertains WGN listeners in the team of East and Duhmke.) Buttenvorth first took Broadway by storm in "Americana," written by J. P. McEvoy, also a Notre Dame man, and is now playing to capacity audiences at the Illinois The­atre. The Notre Dame Club further honored Charlie Butterworth ^rith a special Notre Dame night at the Illi­nois Theatre, November 0. One hun­dred fifty choice seats were reser\'ed in a special section Notre Dame sec­
tion. We congratulate Charlie Butter-worth and the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
Following a suggestion made by BjTon v. Kanaley, '04, in a talk at the first Council of Local Alumni Clubs in June, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago announces development along the lines of Mr. Kanaley's plan. Accordingly, a committee consisting of a group of men, each of whom is outstanding in a particular field, has been appointed, and is known as the Vocational Guidance Committee. 
The primary purpose of this Com­mittee is to counsel and advise mem­bers of each graduating class, who live in Chicago, and if it is possible, to help them secure a position in their chosen profession. 
The Committee will endeavor to help any local alumnus who is not employed or who is interested in changing his connections, and will also be willing to inform any Notre Dame man living outside of Chicago of the possibilities in his field in this City. 
Whenever a member hears of an opening he is asked to call the Chair­man, D. E. Hiltgartner, Jr., '17, at Superior 0100, or, if it is urgent, com­municate direct with the proper mem­ber of the Committee, who will rec­ommend a Notre Dame man whose qualifications have been approved. 
Tlie Membership Roster: Advertis­ing Agencies—James E. Sanford, '15; Architects—William G. Uffendell, '02; Aviation-Commercial—W i 11 i a m G. Ferstel, '02; Banking — Arthur J. Hughes, '17; Bonds—Vincent C. Scul­ly; Ex-'19; Boy Guidance — John D. Culhane, '23; Coal—Frank Hayes,'05; Dairy Business — William P. Devine, '89; Dentistrj'Dr. John F. Delph, '16; Engineering — John F. Gushing, '06; Furniture—^William D. Jamieson, '05; Insurance — James H. Brennan, '20; Investment Banking—Byron V. Kana­ley, '04; Journalism—^Arch Ward, '21; Law — Fred L. Steers, '11; Manufac­turing—George A. Rempe, '10; Medi­cine—Dr. Jesse Roth, '10; Newspaper Advertising—Daniel E. Hiltgartner, Jr., '17; Publishers' Representatives— William A. Draper, '07. 
DETROIT 

Detroit sent its representations to the Navy game in two trains, one on the Wabash and one on the New York Central. With those who made the trip by automobile, the number who attended the game was probably be­tween 800 and 1,000. 
The club has arranged for a block of 200 tickets for the Army game. The Wabash will operate a special train the morning of the game. 
If present plans are carried out, the club will give a dinner in honor of Coach Rockne after the close of the football season. Rockne has as­sured his presence. 
Friends of Van Wallace, who was severely injured a few years ago in diving into the swimming pool at Notre Dame, will be pleased to know that he has successfully undergone an operation. His condition is as good as could be expected. He is living at present on Moravian Drive, Mount Clemens, Mich. 
A familiar figure this fall in the campaign of Wilber M. Brucker for governor has been Ray Kelly, El. '16. The position of Ray in war veteran circles has made of him a valuable ally for Brucker. 
Some of the familiar figures are missing from Detroit this fall. George Koch, '25, is teaching in South Bend. "Duke" Clancy, the last we heard, was in Indianapolis. 
The Detroit Club tried the policy this fall of making ticket application blanks for all football games avail­able to the general public. More than 700 were distributed. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

The ALUMNUS has received news­paper accounts of a dinner for the organization of the Notre Dame Club of Eastern Pennsylvania, but no fur­ther reports have been received. The newspaper account follows: 
"The Notre Dame alumni of the Lehigh Valley OTU hold a dinner meeting Sunday evening, October 26, at the Mansion House, Reading, for the purpose of organizing the Eastern Pennsylvania Alumni Club of Notre Dame. Leo R. Mclntyre, Bethlehem, president of the East-Penn campus club in 1928, will be in charge of the meeting. 
James A. Jones, a graduate of Notre Dame, in the class of 1927, and a former resident of AUentown, is manager of the Mansion House." 
HLAWATHALAND 

Gustav DeHooghe, of the Gladstone Michigan High School was selected by the Hiawathaland U. N. D. Club as the winner of the second annual One Hundred Dollar scholarship. Gus was highly recommended by Glad­stone officials. He captained his foot­ball team as a senior, and won letters in football, basketball and track. Paul Kreuz, of Menominee, Michigan, was the -ivinner of the 1929 scholarship. 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Word comes from Indianapolis that the Club has recently appointed a Scholarship committee of seven mem­bers consisting of the officers ex-officio (Joe McNamara, President; Bob Gavin, Vice-President; Michael Reddington, Treasurer; and Walter Houppert, Secretary) and Jim Deery-, '11, for three years, George Bischoff, '25 for two years and Bob Worth, '25, one year. 'Thereafter one committee­man shall be elected each year for a period of three years. The Club helped put a boy "over the top" this year and the ALUMNUS enthusiasti­cally endorses these student aid ac­tivities as one of the most worthwhile things the alumni can do. We are glad to see Indianapolis pushing the band wagon. 
KANSAS CITY 

The Notre Dame Club of Kansas City plans on sending a. nianber of members to Chicago to cheer for Notre Dame on November 29. Ac­cording to Maurice Carroll, Secretary of the Club over one hundred are making the trip. Among those who will be in Chicago for that game are: Conrad Mann, Dr. Nigro, Henry Bur-dick, Joseph Stewart, Maurice Car­roll, George Reinhardt, Martin Crowe, John Crowe, Fred Mancuso, T. J. Pendergast, Joseph McGee, Dr. T. S. Bourk, Jerome Walsh, Frank Molloy, 
F. L. O'ReUly, M. E. Heaney, Dean Marrs, Fred Burton, E. A. Lancaster, 
R. J. Potts, Franklin Lamb, E; V. Brosnahan, John Stewart, James Lil­lis. Sparks Gorman. 
Doctor Nigro, President of the Club, George Reinhardt and Bill Pur­cell were at Notre Dame for the Navy game. 
PARIS 

Here is an excerpt from a letter from Peter J. Ronchetti, '18, that will be of interest to the alumni: 
"Last Saturday, October 11, the occasion of the dedication of the new stadium, Mrs. Ronchetti and I invited Mr. and Mrs. Louis Pat Harl to visit us. We dined at one of the well known Paris Hotels just at the time the game was going on. (We are six hours ahead of you people.) 
"The evening was well passed and we had some good food, good drinks and did not forget to drink a real toast to Notre Dame, its team. Rock, the good priests of the Order and the professors. 
"Wishing you and the Alumni our best, please pass on our regards to my good friends at Notre Dame." 
PORTLAND 

The Editor received a letter from Charles HirschbuM, '22, Secretary of the Club, the day of the Navy game. Charlie wished to assure all of us here at Notre Dame that, although they were unable to attend the dedica­tion game, "the alumni from Oregon are all anxiously awaiting the out­come and wishing we could he there to witness the dedication of the Stadium." 
ROCHESTER 
A long letter from Gerry Smith gives some interesting dope on the Club. It looks like a big year for the boys. Here is the letter: 
"Dear Jim: 
"According to the last ALUMNUS in which I noticed no club news from Rochester, I thought I'd drop you a line. Due to the apparent absent­mindedness of our demon Secretary, Clint Lintz, I believe you haven't received any definite information from us for quite a while. 
"Well, to get down to facts, I'm busier than the devil today. 
"We had a meeting at the Brooklea Country Club last week and the an­nual Christmas party plans were made. Joe FljTin will be Chairman this year. Thank the boys for that! I had the job for the last three years, and you know that there is no fun connected with a thing like that. 

"The party will be held after Christmas, on Saturday night, Decem­ber 27th. It will, of course, be a formal dinner dance and will be at the Brooklea Country Club, one of the most e.xclusive country clubs in Roch­ester. Situated a few miles out of town, surrounded by myriads of trees and evergreens, a nicer spot you never saw, Jim. 
"Considering the fact that the Pennsylvania Club and a few others of the elite East are holding their dances in hotels, we can be quite proud of the fact that socially we have quite an edge on these "birds" this year. 
"The large, cozy living room of the club, with its fireplace and flying buttresses, will be decorated through­out in gold and blue. 
Q­
Q., 
Mari'iages 

LOUIE BUCKLEY, demon '28 reporter, crashes the gates of the Alumni Office and contributes the following wedding announcement just as the ALUMNUS is going to press: 
Mr. and Mrs. Ira Weaver announce the marriage of their daughter, Cleo Edith, to JOHN MITCHELL CAR­ROLL, '28, on Wednesday, October S, at Springfield, Illinois. Mr. and Mrs. Mitchell will be at home after Novem­
"The party will be absolutely ex­clusive, due to the fact that no more than seventy-five couples can be ac­commodated. Since there will be ap­proximately thirty-five Notre Dame men who will attend, including the boys from the school, we are allotting one extra ticket to each alumnus or student. In the final analysis, we thought that this would be the best plan, considering the fact that the times are so bad this year and that it is absolutely impossible to get into the field of friends, such as we had in the past years and make a hundred dollars or so, the party is being con­ducted strictly at cost. 
"Whether you knew it or not, (Ed.'s note: I knew it), Jerry Morsches and Art Hohman were out for the Na^'y game, Joe Flynn was there for the Carnegie game, Ed Kramer rode dovm to the Pittsburgh game. I know there were a lot of others but I can't mention them ofi'hand. 
"As for myself, I haven't seen the squad in action this year, but I am planning to go to Philadelphia for the Penn game Saturday. 
"Clint Lintz was up to Montreal with Ray Mead a short while last August. Clint is still paying for the damage he did on the trip. You should have seen that Chrysler Im­perial "SO" of his after he crawled out. 
"I understand that Ray Mead is al­so going down to the Penn game— will probably see him do^vn there. 
"Biff Lee was in town last Sat­urday. Y^ou know, he is coaching the University of Buffalo football team this year. The papers heralded the arrival of the Notre Dame system in the persons of the Buffalo Bisons. Unfortunately or fortunately, living in Rochester, I suppose I should say fortunately, the speedy Yellow Jack­
=THE ALUMN] 
ber 1, at 1123 S. Walnut St., Spring­field, Illinois. 
Miss Dorothy Gibson, of Newberry, Michigan, and GEORGE KOCH, '23, of Macomb, HI., were married at St. Patrick's Church, South Bend, Novem­ber 6. REV. GEORGE FISHER, C.S.C, '21, assistant pastor of St. Patrick's, officiated. Miss Helen Craw­ford and JOSEPH E. WHELAN, '29, were the attendants. 
Mrs. Koch is a graduate of the Uni­versity of Michigan. George is a member of the faculty in the Riley High School of South Bend. 
ets trampled upon the boys to the 
tune of 24-6 which probably proves 
the alternative to the U. of R.—that 

the Warner system is superior to the 
Rockne system. 
"So long and good luck: Sincerely yours, •Gerry" 
ST. LOUIS 

"When Notre Dame meets the Army, will you be there ?" The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis wants to know. If you are not on deck it won't be the fault of the Club. The Club is making it easy for N. D. fans to see the game on November 29. An all-expense party, limited to two hundred persons has been announced by the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis. 
"The special train will leave Union Station, St. Louis, at 11:50 p. m., Fri­day, November 28, and arrive at Union Station, Chicago, at 7:50 a. m., Saturday, November 29. Returning, the Special will leave Chicago at 3:00 
a. m., Sunday, November 30, and ar­rive in St. Louis at 9:30 a. m., the same morning. For those wishing to retire earlier Saturday evening after the game, the train will be ready for occupancy in Union Station anv time after 11:00 p. m." 
The pamphlet further explains that the special will carrj' the most ex­travagant and richly furnished equip­ment of modem transportation facil­ities . . . club car with radio . . . two dining cars . . . obser\-ation car . . . midnight supper ser\-ed in honor of the University, Knute Rockne and the team, as the party leaves St. Louis Friday night . . . special breakfast . . . tickets for the game to those making the trip . . . ladies invited . . . hotel accommodations in Stevens Ho­tel, if desired . . . et cetera, et cetera. See Bob Hellrung for particulars. 
MQ 

J. R. DEVITT, '13, of Cleveland sends in the news that THOMAS McGUIRE was married last June to Miss Irene D. Kenvin, St. Mary's, '26. Mr. and Mrs. McGuire are living in Chicago. 
Miss Margaret Nolan, of Grand Rapids, became the bride of CLAR­ENCE J. ICAISER, '25, on October 11. The ceremony took place in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. ' EDWARD AHLERING, '25, of Hammond, Indi­ana acted as best man. Clarence is chief chemist with the O'Brien Var­nish Company in South Bend. 
From the Pacific coast comes an in­vitation to the wedding of Miss Helen Neuwald to EUSTACE CULLINAN, Jr., '25, on Wednesday, November 12 at high noon. The wedding will be solemnized at the Star of the Sea Church in San Fi-ancisco. 
Miss Ruth Bunker was married to JOSEPH ALEXANDER NAVARRE, Jr., '26, on September 24, in Ann Arbor, Michigan. Mi-, and Mrs. Na­varre are at home at 484 Webster Ave., W., Muskegon, Mich. 
Rumor has it that THOMAS M. SHARKEY, '26, of Indianapolis, In­diana was married during the summer and is now living in New York City. Right ? 
GAIL GURNETT, '26, was married to Miss Maiy Kathryn Cassidy on September 3, at St. Patrick's Church, Arlington, Illinois. They will reside at Depew, Illinois, where Gail is as­sociated •srith the Mineral Point Zinc Company. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. Summers announce the marriage of their daughter, Betty Constance, to CARL 
M. SCHICKLER, '27, on Monday, October 6, at Aurora, Illinois. Mr. and Mrs. Schickler are at home at the Clark Apartments, 344 Clara Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 
A letter from Gerry Smith, Roches­ter, containing the following interest­ing announcement has just been "dis­covered" in the Alumni Office. With apologies to everyone concerned the ALUMNUS takes pleasure in the be­lated announcement of the marriage of Miss Betty Pritchard, Rochester, 
N. Y., to Mr. JOHN F. MORSCHES, '27, formerly of Fort Wayne, Indiana. Miss Pritchard is a sister to Mrs. Jerr\- Morsches and sen-ed as maid of honor at the Pritchard-Morsches wedding in April. Doc Morsches was best man at his brother's wedding. According to Gerry's letter: "Doc met Betty, Evelyn's sister at the cere­mony, and came back a short time later to marry her. Looks like the Notre Dame men crash heavily in the Pritchard family." (Scenario and short story writers please note.) 
Word has come from uptown New York that WILLIAM J. CONWAY, '27, who is teaching at Fordham Uni­versity and continuing his work for the doctor's degree, was married on August IS to Miss Katherine Ellen Clarkson. 
Announcement has been made of the marriage of Miss Marguerite Van den BosEche, of South Bend, Indiana, to DR. ERNEST J. WILHELM, '27, Ph.D.'30, DR. FRANK MOOTZ, a classmate, was the best man. Dr. and Mrs. Wilhelm are making their home in Palmerton, Pa., where he is em­ployed in the research department of the New Jersey Zinc Company. 
Among those who joined the ranks of the eBnedicts this year we find the name of R. A. WEPPNER, '28. He was married to Miss Florence Riley, at Cleveland, on May 27, 1930. Mr. and Mrs. Weppner are now residing at 63 Forrest Ave., Riverside, Illinois. Dick is associated with the Universal Oil Company. 
Miss Lucille Bickel, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Bickel, Mishawaka, became the bride of RONALD E. RICH, '28, September 30. Mr. and Mrs. Rich left for a motor trip through the central states and Ozark mountains, and are at home at 1536 
E. 69th St., Chicago. 
Here is one for the engineers! HENRY JOSEPH MASSMAN, C.E, '28, was married to Miss Cecelia Maria Nagle on October 15 at the Church of Our Lady of Good Counsel, Kansas City, Mo. Mr. and Mrs. Massman are making their home in Kansas City. 
The ALUMNUS has just received word of the marriage of CHESTER 
E. SMITH, '29, to Miss Rose Board-man. The ceremony took place on January 23, 1930, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. Mr. and Mrs. Smith are living at 541 Oak St., Toledo, Ohio. 
LOUIS JAMES REGAN, also of '29, was married to Miss Frances Louise Loftus on September 25, in Great Falls, Montana. Mr. and Mrs. Regan are at home in Great Falls. 
FRANK J. SOWA, '30, was mar­mied to Miss Frances Hertl at Colio, North Dakota on September 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Ash announce the marriage of their daughter, Helen Kathi-yn to Mr. WALTER D. HALL, '25, on Wednesday, October 8, Web­ster City, Iowa. T'hey ax-e at home at 2212 Girard Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 
Engagements 
-^ 

From 'way out in Texas comes the announcement of the approaching marriage of one of Notre Dame's most famous sons. CHRISTY FLAN­AGAN, '28, is to be married to Miss Rita Hancock of El Campo, Texas. The wedding will take place in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. The date is November 24. 
Births 

A letter from GEORGE LAUGH­LIN, '25, causes the Editor to hold the ALUMNUS, ready for the press, and add this bit of news. George's letter reads: "Evidently you have missed a good bit of news for the ALUMNUS. On June 30,1 became the father of an 8%-pound boy and believe me, he is a great kid. Just another accomplish­ment of the Class of '25." 
Louie Buckley brings in the an­nouncement that Mr. and Mrs. FRANK DONOVAN, '28, are the parents of a boy, born Saturday, November 8.. The Editor has been trying all day to locate Frank and get the name, weight and bright sayings of the Junior Donovan, but has come to the conclusion that Frank has abandoned business, home and friends, and has made St. Joseph's hospital his headquarters. 
DONALD LASKEY, '27, is the proud father of a daughter, bom the latter part of August, according to a note received in the Alumni Office. 
B. Vincent Pater the second, '22 Jr., arrived at Hamilton, Ohio a few days ago. We wish him a position on the varsity, maxima aim latide, and suc­cess in general in years to come. 
Another Coquillard for Notre Dame. ALEXIS COQUILLARD, '03, is the father of another boy, bom November 1. 
WALTER DUNCAN, '12, contrib­utes a future treasurer to the Alumni Association. The Duncan heir was bom in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend on October 23. This is Walter's fourth Horseman. 
Mr. and Mrs. RUDOLPH GOEP­FRICH, '26, are the parents of a boy, Charles Joseph, bom September 13. 
Anne Marie Ley is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. TED LEY, '26. She took possession of the Ley household October 11. 
Twenty years from now Notre Dame will boast another Brennan. JOHN W. BRENNAN'S son, James Henry, bom October 12, will doubt-les's be following in his father's foot­steps. John received his Bachelor of Science degree in '27, followed by an MJ;. in '30. 
Here is some news for the "great open spaces." Mr. CHARLES WIL­LIAMS, '28, is the happy father of a baby girl, Rose Mary, bom to Charley and Mrs. Williams on August 13, at Ely, Oregon. 
A candidate for St. Mary's arrived at the Balfe household on October 24. Marie Balfe is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. B.ALFE, '20. 
DeatJis 

The ALUMNUS regretted verj' much to receive news of the death of Mr. THOMAS A. QUINLAN, '04, of Los Angeles, California. No details have been received. 
It is with deep regret that the ALUaiNUS prints this '30 note from a Jackson newspaper: "HARRIN*^ TON J. NOON, son of James J. Nr,;,, Jackson attorney, died at the home at 216 Second St., about 4 o'clock Sun­day, November 2, after a brief illness. He contracted infantile paralysis on Thursday. The deceased was a gradu­ate from Notre Dame last June and recently was admitted to the Jackson County Bar association. He was a member of the Knights of Columbus lodge of Jackson. 
"Sui-\-iving besides the parents are two sisters, Marj' and Ruth, residing at home." 
Persoimls 
1885-1890 

The Diamond Jubilee of St. Mary's Church, Portsmouth, Ohio, of which REV. TIBURTIUS GOEBEL, '89, A.1L '95, is pastor, was recently cele­brated. 
1890-1893 

Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave., 
Minneapolis, Minn. 

DR. -CHARLES P. NEILL, A.M. '93, LL.D. '08, was chairman of the local committee for the 16th Annual Conference of Catholic Charities, held in Washington, D. C, Sept. 28 to Oct. 2. 
1895 
Eustace CuUinan, Sr., 860 Phclan 
Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 

HON. ARTHUR P. HUDSON was among the •vnsitors for the Dedication game, being accompanied by his nephew, HUDSON JEFFRIES, '28. The Judge visited his old home, Iron-ton, Ohio, and an editorial from the Ironton Tribune is so descriptive of Judge Hudson's career that the ALUMNUS, which received the edi­torial from a friend of the Judge, takes the liberty of reprinting it: 
"Judge Art Hudson, former Hang­ing Rock boy, but now gracing the 
Circuit Court bench in Kanawha county. West Virginia, paid us a call a few days ago, to exchange greetings and to speak of old times. Art was one of the gay blades of the Nineties, and was on the first football team in Ironton. He has changed but little, if any, in spirit, but the march of time has left a few acid tracings about his face, as it has with all of us of his period. The cares, responsibilities of his position have added their toll also, but his spirit is as youthful and zest­ful as ever. The writer believes Art Hudson to be as fine a personality as ever befalls the lot of man. He is the soul of honor, and a typical American citizen. His unfailing joviality, his enthusiasm, clean, wholesome think­ing, and sympathetic interest in the affairs of others make him all that one could specify in a companionable and lovable friend. He was a welcome friend and an enjoyed one." 
May all your home town papers be able to say the same. 
A welcome letter, which came in­directly to the attention of the ALUJINUS, announced the partial recoveiy of DANIEL P. MURPHY. Mr. Murphy writes that he was un­able to attend the Penn game, but he was in New York at the time and re­covering his strength. He was shocked to learn of the sudden death of Frank O'Shaughnessy, with whom he had had business and social contact dur­ing the summer, immediately preced­ing Frank's death. 
1896 

William P. Burns, 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Ind. 
HON. ALBERT J. GALEN, asso­ciate supreme court justice of Mon­tana and senatorial candidate on the Republican ticket against HON. THOMAS WALSH, LL.D. '17, was paid a great tribute by the people of his state in the strong race, though losing, that he made against the vet­eran statesman in the recent elections. Judge Galen is veiy popular in Mon­tana, being a native, a former "cow­boy," a world war veteran, and a brother-in-law of former Senator Thomas Carter. Judge Galen re­ceived a degree from Michigan after his graduation from Notre Dame. 
1900 

JOHN W. EGGEMAN, Director and Past President of the Association, has just returned to Fort Wayne from several months' in Europe. The Edi­tor was pleased to receive a postcard from the Judge as he traveled along the Rhine. The Judge attended the Passion Play at Oberammergau. After a week in Rome he and his party sailed from Naples. The Judge won 200 lire on the boat when Notre Dame defeated one of its important rivals of the early season. 
A recent letter advises that REV. JAMES H. McGINNIS is now at St. Mary's Rectoiy, 269 Church St., Poughkeepsie, N. Y. Father McGin­nis was formerly at Goshen, N. Y. 
1904 
Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., 
Elkhart, Ind. 

The Editor had the pleasure of a brief visit with WALTER DALY last month, when he stopped between trains for a \'isit to the campus. He was on his way back to Portland, where he is president of the Title and Trust Co. 
1913 

James R. Devitt, 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. PATRICK JL O'MEARA, a student of ai-chitecture in 1909-11, now senior partner of O'Meara & Hills, Archi­tects, St. Louis, 3Io., visited the cam­pus October 29 and met Fathers Burns and Cavanaugh and other old friends. 
1916 

T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana. 
P. E. SWIFT, E.E.'16, is one man who has demonstrated that he is still animated not only by the old time spirit, but by the old time spirits. Swift confesses that he grew tired of Prohibition and hence moved from the United States to Canada. For the past several years he has been de­signing motors for the English Elec­tric Company, and he is living with his wife and two children, at 98 Lowell Street, St. Catherines, Ontario. We suggest to Mr. Swift that if he can find an opportunity to return to the States that he will be surprised at the progress which Prohibition has made in this country, both as to quan­tity and quality. We might also sug­gest that a Canadian visitor would be exceedingly welcome at any 1916 Class Reunion. 
WALTER P. (P-A.T) JIcCOURT has followed the career which was so plainly marked out for him during his school days. Pat is now a contractor, and a substantial family man, looking after the welfare of three children. He can be reached at 369 South Main Street, Akron, Ohio. 
DR. EDWARD C. RYAN, who was not satisfied with the sheepskin ac­quired at Notre Dame in 1916, but pursued his medical studies at North­western University, has been a most regular attendant at all important functions at Notre Dame, including the annual Laymen's Retreat. We have no doubt that the doctor prays fervently for all his classmates dur­ing the Retreat. He has enjoyed a successful and growing practice on the South side of Chicago, and now has offices at 7941 South Halsted Street and at 1724 West 105th Street. Despite the attention which he lav­ishes upon the three girls and one boy who are dependent upon him for support, he has found time to develop his golf game to the extent of chal­lenging the Class Secretary. 
Another member of the Law Class of 1918, who has stuck to the profes­sion, is JOSEPH 0'SULLIV.A.N of Mound City, Illinois. Joe has been the prosecuting attorney of Pulaski County, Illinois, since 191S. He is married. 
1918 

John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave., Escanaba, Slichigan. 
F.-\THER LEO JONES is located at the Catholic Mission in Pingnam, Kwangsi, China. He writes that he heard from only two Notre Dame men since he has been there. The Mis­sion at which he is staying has gi-own from three hundred Christians to about a thousand, with twelve men now in charge. Father Leo would certainly welcome letters from his old classmates. 
1919 
Clarence Bader, 630 Pierce St., Garj-, Indiana. 

Classmates of ANDREW L. MC­DONOUGH, 211 W. Front St., Plain­field, N. J., will sympathize with Andy in the death of his father, which occurred Nov. 2 after the elder Mr. McDonough had been stricken with apoplexy. 
1921 

Alden J. Cusick, 1 Park Avenue, New York City, Secretary 
E. MORRIS STARRETT, eminent contributor to the ALUMNUS among his other distinctions, arrived home safely despite his reluctance to aban­don the team so early in the season, and has readjusted Port Townsend to a satisfactoiy basis. He is now look­ing forward to winning the tough Southern California game. iMorrie writes that EMMETT LENIHAN 
(G. K. of the Seattle K. of C, by the way), a neighbor as neighbor is in­terpreted in the great Northwest, has accepted the King County deputy prosecuting attorney appointment 
(Seattle), after passing up a state supreme court judgeship. 
AL CUSICK writes from 585 Ger­ard -Ave., N. Y. C, where he is located sufficiently permanently for stationery purposes, sends in a little exchange with CLYDE W-ALSH, Campus, 111. From Al to Clyde: "That was a nice newsy letter which greeted me this 
morning. It is a mighty long while 
since I have heard from you and the 
only disappointing thing about your 
letter is that it brings me news that 
you are still one of those poor un­
fortunates known as bachelors. My, 
how I sympathize with you. Yes, I 
have a two-months-old son and an 
eighteen-months-old daughter. It is 
not necessary that I give you the age 
of my wife, but she is very nice and 
comes from the old sod like you—^her 
Jlothei-'s name was Bridget Newgent 
and her Father's—Patrick McKenna." 
Which brought the following from 
Clyde to Al: "Your sympathy is re­
ceived and I am grateful. Al—I 
rather envy many of the boys that are 
married, that is at times, and then I 
know so many that just do not live, 
that I have a trying time deciding. 
Naturally, there is another party to 
satisfy and not being a salesman I 
have been unable to sell myself to the 
right party—perhaps the future may 
find someone that is speculative 
enough to take a chance. My broth­
ers are all married, the sisters not 
yet though I'm afraid we will have a 
brother-in-law in the family before 
long. I was 0%'er for the Dedication 
of the Stadium—it is really beautiful 
and I am happy that we waited as I 
believe we are ahead of them all. 
Parking accommodations are good and 
there is an abundance of roads so that 
congestion is greatly avoided. RAY 
KEARNS, the lone soldier I knew— 
was in the Dining Hall when we 
arrived, so that I waved when he was 
leaving." 
1922 
Gerald --Vshe, 1023 Monroe -Ave, Rochester, N. Y. 

The Navy game, with attendant dedication ceremonies, brought out a good size delegation of '22 men. We saw PAUL PFOHL, who doesn't look a darned bit different despite an arduous eight year campaign. Paul has a good position with the Radio Corporation now. HAROLD WEBER was there; in fact, he hasn't been away, for South Bend is his home. Just in from Bridgeport was JIM MURPHY whom we hadn't seen since hte Yale-Iowa football game played some seven or eight vears ago. Y^ou remember DAN SULLIVAN with all his optimism, and good old TUFFY HART, who we can't in justice call a pessimist, but who is known to have pessimistic tendencies — well, both gentlemen added prestige to the oc­casion. Dan is very portly but we won't hold that against him for CLETE LYNCH and LEO McG.ARTY have filled out somewhat since their colle­giate days. Tuffy Hart is a very loyal husband. In vain we tried to persuade him to take the last train home. PETE CHAMPION of Cleve­
land had luncheon with the writer and we both crabbed the service which to us seemed unusually slow, but probably wasn't — we were rarin' to go to the game. Among the lesser Ughts at the game was JIM SHAW. You wonder why Jim has taken on a lower rating? Jim informed one of my friends who was inquiring about my whereabouts that I was travel­ling with Barnum and Bailey's cir­cus.. The dedication would have been a complete success without Jim Shaw. JERRY DIXON was strutting around like a peacock occasionally taking pains to clear up legal arguments which arose from time to time. Sure, WILF DWYER was present—he never misses a game. PAT MANION and LEO MAHONEY managed to keep under cover practically all of the time. DOCTOR DAN SEXTON was in rare form when we discovered him. Dan was standing in the Oliver lobby peering floorward the meantime strok­ing his fast appealing beard, in fact, he was the very picture of concentra­tion as he dispensed free medical ad­vice to his eager listeners. R-AY KEARNS spent most of his time keeping Dixon out of trouble. BILL FOLEY and DR. JUDY SHANAHAN who were graduated in '21 deserve honorable mention in this column for their presence. ART SHEA answered to roll call. There must have been others present and we are sorry we missed them. 
Light-horse HARRY MEHRE and his Georgia football team have re­turned to the Southland with its an­nual victory over Y'ale. 
Y'ou can't make us sore by sending in contributions. 
1923 

Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd, 
South Bend, Ind. 

Bill Furey writes: Dear Jim: 
Here is an item that is big, even if it is not important. One of the biggest sections of the Class ever to be assembled in one block of a single city street resides in the 1400 block on East Madison, South Bend. The Class of '23 is represented at 1426 E. Madison St. by myself and right next door by ED KRIEMER. Can you or even Ripley think of any Bigger com­bination than that? I challenge any-class from old N. D. to even come within a hundred pounds of that rec­ord. In case any of the doubting Thomases do return to this vicinity, pi'oof of the above can be had in the above mentioned block." 
Bill and CLARENCE HAEDING are ^vinning considerable reputation as radio entertainers and are in business for themselves, "Everything in Entertainment." 
1924 chance to talk to anyone outside of Dedication game but a brief passing 
James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave, New York City. 

Dear Jim: 
Here I sit, plagued by the seven 

demons of my conscience and a dead­
line which is already as stale as last 
year's birthday cake. If I could only 
rid myself of the haunting thought of 
you sitting by the presses waiting for 
contributions from Alumni Secretar­
ies of Classes which never come . . . 
never . . . never. "We are the dead 
. . ." what a line for most of the 
Class Secretaries . . . including the 
undersigned who is probably the most 
corpse-like of them all. 
I beg to report that the great class of '24 is still among the alumni. Where most of them are I don't know. I should like to know and I broadcast this appeal for them to embarrass me by writing me all the news and mak­ing me write it to Jim Armstrong. I make a plea now for a reunion of our class through this column, or through a half dozen pages if neces­sary—^within the next three months. Let us have a word from, or a word about everj'one in the class. We will then probably be the first alunmi out­side of the 1. C. S. to have a reunion by correspondence. 
The gay New Yorkers, HAROLD WELCH, FRANK KOLARS, CHAR­LIE DEBARRY, FR.ANIC DUPFICY, TIM MURPHY, I see once in a now and then. Frank DufBcy, iinding it difficult to get in from Bronxville be­fore 10 A. M. has moved to "the city. He now hopes to get in before 10 
A. M. Charlie DeBarrj- is also in Manhattan now, having deserted Brooklyn about the time the St. Louis Cardinals began to knock BrookljTi out of first place. Charlie walks to work at Trowbridge and Livingston's architects' emporium, evei-y day— reason, a desire to reduce here and there. Frank Kolars drives up and down Fifth Avenue in a new car pur­chased, I hear, with his bridge win­nings, but we on Fifth Avenue have no traffic regulation to stop liim. 
About some others — GEORGE SHUSTE R left for Europe last Sat­urday. He is going to tour Germany and come back with enough material to write a book. ALDEN CUSICK dropped in on our last New York af­fair, and we have liis promise to be a good member of the club. Al is with an Outdoor Advertising Com­pany here as head of the New York Branch. There is a new addition to the JOHN B.4LFE family. There will also probably be another an­nouncement about John in the near future — a business note this time. CHARLIE CALL lunches vnth. us every Thursday and says it is the only day in the week that he has a the cloak, suit, and women's apparel business. FRANK MULLIGAN, the "best 100 yard dash man for 90 yards" ever turned out of the Univer­sity (quotes to Rockne) is also a regular Thursday lunch attendant. Any of the New Yorkers in the vicinity of the Fraternity Club at 38th and Madison, on Thursday between 
12:30 and 2:30 will find someone in the comer to greet. 
Come on, class of '24 — waive im­munity and tell everything! If not your willing but undernourished sec­retary will have to fill this column with notes about Fifth Avenue. 
P. S.—Saw CHARLIE BUTTER­WORTH on Broadway recently. He was dashing into a taxicab with the gleam of a contract in his eye. More about him later. 
AL BIRMINGHAM of Boston is to be married soon, so your ear-to-the­ground correspondent hears. Will Al please step forward and affirm or deny the allegation? 
DICK SCALLAN, classmate of Father JOE RICK, monogram man, and member of a great relay team, and brother of the editor of the '24 Dome, John William Michael Scallan (by the way, what ever became of him?) was married recently in Cin­cinnati, Ohio. Here's to his happi­ness. 
Brief and un-detailed report comes to the ALUMNUS that JOHN N. McCABE is head of the department of journalism at Creighton. 
CH.A.RLIE BUTTERWOETH, who has been appearing in person and as a moving picture throughout the country, came back to the old home town recently for a brief visit as a breathing spell from "Sweet Adeline" in its Chicago showing. 
The addresses of CYRIL BIEK­BECK, FRANK PIECARSKI, MIKE SCHMITT, CLARENCE WARD and GEORGE BUTTEEFIELD failed to yield a response to TED BULLARD, who is now with the National Auto­motive Serrice, 638 Pallister Ave., De­troit. As Harvey Woodruff says, "Help and Help!" 
1925 

John W. Scallan, Pullman Co, 79 W. 
•Adams St, Chicago, III. 

JOHN W. SCALLAN, the elusive Secretary, remains the same. He is urging instead of abuse, a change. Watch this space! 
•ED LAKNER has finished his medical studies at the U. of Michigan and is on the house staff of St. Alexis Hospital in Cleveland. Dr. Lakner's home address is 9423 Ra­mona Blvd., Cleveland. 
BEN RESTING was down for the Hello was all the Editor could man­age. Ben looked just the same and was duly awed by the Greater Notre Dame. 

JACK MELLEY, 225 Pittock Bldg., Portland, Ore., is in the loan business in Portland. 
Word from the west coast is that BARNEY MACNAB is in St. Vincent's Hospital, Portland, convalescing from a serious operation on his spine. 
In Peoria, JOHN NOPPENBERG­ER is gladdening natives with seven straight victories at Spalding Insti­tute. 
1927 
Ed DeCIerq, Secretary 8126 Drexel Blvd, Chicago, 111. 

From Ohio, the home of presidents, comes news of a start in the right direction via the Ohio bar exams, of CHUCK MOONEY, JOHN BUTLER, CLAYTON LEROUX, JIM MORAN, MARTY RINI, PAUL BRADY, BER­NARD ZIPPERER, JOHN FON­TANA, JOE RIGNEY, BOB STOEP­PLER and PAUL SHIBEN. 
For Walt Layne's "Tnte Detective Mysteries" comes the following lucid narrative from FRANK PENDER­GAST: 
Happenings of a more personal and less prominent nature hinging around my latest run-in with Chicago's gen­tleman of the gun: The story con­cerns myself and the boys with whom I have an apartment, TOM DUNN and JOHNNY SULLIVAN, both of '27. Here 'tis: 
Monday evening, October 6 about 

8:30 Johnny Sullivan opened the door of our apartment, flicked on the light and stepped in. From a small hall­way between the living room and bed­room stepped a poorly dressed but determined looking youth of perhaps twenty-three ivith a more determined looking gat in his hand. In a soft, southern voice he invited Johnny to "put up your hands," after informing him that he had him now. 
Most naturally Johnny reached for the ceiling and offered not the slight­est objection to the lad taking his change, and later tying him up on the bed. 
About 9 P. M. your correspondent entered the door of the apartment, flicked on the light again, cast his hat and book on a handy chair and non­chalantly strolled over to pick up the mail off the desk. 
Out of the corridor came our host and in a well modulated voice again requested "put your hands up!" glanced at him, saw the light in the bedroom and figured it was one of the boys' friends handing me the well-known goof. To avoid the expected guffaws from the boys I innocently 
November, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 125 
Qlllilllllllllll>)tlllllltillllllllll)lllllill)llltilt)llllllillllllll)llilllllllllllllllll)llliiiitlii)Mli)llliil)llllllrtil>il)llllllllllillllllllllltllltllltllllltlllHlltMlltlll<tlllltlllllliMlllll 







The Congress Hotel 
Notre Dame Headquarters Army Game 
ARMY GAME Headquarters of N. D. Club of Chicago 


Army Ball — Gold and Balloon Rooms 10 P. M. Saturday, Nov. 29 
Auspices of Notre Dame Club of Chicago 
Fo?'nial 
•** **• •*• ^ 4^ V^ ^ ^ ^ 

Notre Dame Alumni Welcome 
Q.> 

EUROPE IN 1931 
with leaders who are scholars 
Winter and Spring 
Mediterranean Cruise 
EgjT)t, Palestine 
Greece, Italy 
Summer 
Study and Recreational Tours for College Men, College Women and Alumni. 
.-\jmotiiircmcnts 071 rcqiicst 

Bureau of University Travel 
88 Boyd Street Xewton, Mass. 
parried with "what do you mean?" 
"Put up your hands quick" — mine 
host was getting impatient and mo­
tioned with his hand which was in 
his coat pocket apparently around a 
cannon. The afTair took on a serious 
aspect and I was convinced in retro­
spect that it was just at that moment 
that I lost completely my, till then, 
superb Muradic manner. 
As I reached for the ceiling he 
ordered me to "turn around." "Where, 
which way?" I quibbled and got the 
griped direction "to the wall." 
Tlie lad slipped over to the window entry, reached down into a new golf bag and pulled out a "rod" that should have had wheels on it—unless I was excited. Till then he had been bluff­ing he asured me, but from then on he was quite sincere. 
So with the gun nidely jabbed in my vertebrae he made short work of $1.48 carried on my person. By use of a pale white lie I saved ?7.00 that rested in a vest pocket over my heart. 
Next I was led to join Johnny Sul­livan. The strong personality made me lie face down on the bed, and then tied my hands behind my back, my legs together, and then pulled up the legs .and tied them to the hands Nice lad though! 
Well, he got real sociable with Johnny and me right off, said he surely was working hard for the §3.00 he had so far collected, and how come we didn't have more living here and playing golf. "Just out of the uni­versity" brought the query "which one?" Notre Dame." "I'm a great follower of Notre Dame teams. How's it gonna be this year?" "Fine, another champ outfit." 
We socialized for another half hour while he looked everj^vhere for shek­els, handled my recently shod feet sticking up before him and decided they, the shoes, would be of no use as they're too small, and told us how he sweated, 
Down South where he was from they were used to tying up horsey and cattle so he figured our knots would hold, and we heartily agreed. Our new ties he used to tie us could be 
•ironed out he thought. And now open our mouths, he could take no chances. In he -shoved a handkerchief, and wrapped another around our head to hold the gag in place. Did we want him to leave the light on, or turn it off'? And should he call from the corner drug store to see if we were loo.se yet? 
He gave Johnny a break by not taking his watch, but couldn't be talked out of taking fifty-five bucks worth of new golf sticks and a new-ten buck bag. He'd return them in three days if he couldn't hock them. Also, Dunn's eight buck hat fit him well so he took that along. 
And all the time there lay Johnny and I tied up like a couple of Thanks­giving turkeys on the platter. 
When things got quiet we worked the gags out of our well-dried mouths, for cloth certainly absorbs moisture well, then by a series of sqiiirms that would make an angle-worm jealous we got one another untied. Inasmuch as the boy hadn't shot us, although he was uncomfortably nervous, we thought it was quite a joke and one of those "big city experiences." 
Incidentally, we called the cops, and so had the company of squad cars and dicks the latter part of our social­ized evening. 
Also, later we heard from two Notre Dame boys who live across the street that the same evening their apartment had been ransacked of a suit, a golf outfit, six shirts, a set of clubs, and some lighters. Great city this Chicago. Heal chummy like!" 
DAN CUNNINGHAM reports in approved fashion, sajing that he sees a number of the boys at the New York Club luncheons and that JOE WHALEN, who has finished Han-ard Law is living at the Interfratemity Club in New York, waiting to take the N. Y. bar exams. 
1928 Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind, Secretary. 
The Navy game, with the dedica­tion of the new Stadium, brought a 
number of '28 men back on the cam­
pus. GUS JENKINS and MARTY 
EYAN came all the way from Buffalo 
for^the occasion. Marty is still with 
Goodyear in Buffalo and Gus is teach­
ing and coaching in a high school 
there. AL TEHAN was in from 
Springfield, Ohio. Al is now assist­
ant manager of the A. A. Tehan 
Department store. ROSS HARRING­
TON came up from Richmond, Indi­
ana where he is a junior member of 
the law firm of Gardner, Jessup, 
Tippe & Harrington. BOB KIRBY, 
JOHN FREDERICK and BOB GRA­
HAM were very much present. HUD 
JEFFRIES wandered in from Ironton, 
Ohio, where he is kept busy seeing 
that the natives have sufficient insur­
ance to satisfy them. He reports that 
his old room-mate R.ALPH NOL.A.N 
is managing an airport and doing his 
best to manage a wife as well, in 
Joplin, Missouri. I understand that 
there were many other '28 men here 
but not even a Class Secretary can 
see everyone during such a busy week 
end despite the fact he is supposed to 
be "pathe"—see all, know all. WIL­
LARD WAGNER spent most of his 
vacation here. Wag is in New York 
with the Royal Indemnity Company 
in the claim department. We had 
some very interesting times talking 
over Freshman Hall days. 
JOE HORAN and BUD TOPPING are still holding their jobs with Gen­eral Electric in Schenectady. From all reports I take it that the boys have become the Country Club type. So when in Schenectady see them at 1059 Wendell Ave. JOHN DONA­HUE was in from Milwaukee the other day for a visit. 
JOE MORRISSEY is coaching at the Roger Bacon High School in Cin­cinnati. BERNIE GARBER came through with a long waited for letter, but unfortunately it was not as long as it was waited for. The only infor­mation concerning Bemie that it con­tained was the address on the enve­lope, G35 West 115th . Street, New York City. Bemie informs us that DAVID GIBSON (he gave me per­mission to Eotaryize it to Dave) seems to have been married this August to Louise Maryland Metsker, at Anderson, Indiana. Bemie adds that he thinks that Dave is the first of the joumalists to take the step, so evidently Bemie is still single. After referring to the announcement in the ALUMNUS that one may send in a list of those whose deaths one wishes to be notified, Bemie suggests that he may send in some such list as this: JOE BRANNON (preferably by drowning); and commerce men; the one man of the class of '28 who isn't a social and financial success. 

Bemie is of the opinion that the death notification idea was started by Irving Berlin. He also asks a question which the class secretary is unable to answer: "Who is going to pay for those collect telegrams that snap back against one Armstrong's teeth?" 
HOWIE PHALIN writes from La-Junta, Colorado, so evidently my pre­diction in last issue that he would be in the Middle West for the football season was vrrone by a thousand miles or so. Howie was quite sur­prised to hear someone call his name on the streets of Salida, Colorado, way up at an elevation of S,000 feet, and to find the caller to be none other than ED FINN. Ed is manag­ing the Golden Rule Store there. Howie states that they had a drink of mountain dew together and made themselves think thsy were somewhex-e under the scan of the Prefect of Discipline. 
HAROLD M^OX, who was with us in good old Freshman and Sophomore hall days, took a life sentence on September 20 when he was married to Miss Loretta Healy of Chicago. Congratulations, Harold, and pardon the way I stated the announcement because you might be able to get even with me in a few months with a little co-operation from the Alumni Secretarj'. 
I have a few other notes but will save them for the long winter months when news is scarce. Will see you in Chicago, November 29th and will expect to see you overflowing with . . . NEWS. 
A note from LAURENCE WING­ERTER at the Navy game says that GEORGE CONNERS is associate edi­tor of Aviation, a McGraw-Hill publi­cation. GEORGE SARGUS is running a department store in Bellaire, Ohio. Wink himself is advertising manager for the Des Moines Ry. Co. 
STEPHEN WOZNIAK writes from Krakow, ICrowoderska, Poland, where he is studying at the University of Ki-akow with the intention of getting a Doctor's degree, specializing partic­ularly in international law. 
1929 

Joseph P. JMcNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretary. 
First off, Mr. Editor, we should have one of those neat but definite little black-bordered boxes because it is a fact that our own "brother" BOB KIRBY of band and cheer-leading fame is about to take up his leading proclivities once again. This time it's one Miss Antoinette Langensamp and the destination is the altar. JOHN ABIJAH DAVIS, of "HuUie and Mike" renown, will be the chief-mourner in a ceremony that will be one of the high lights of the Indianap­olis social season. 
And, just as an aside Mr. Editor, how these Indianapolis girls do sigh when JOHN DAVIS is mentioned. Mr. Ripley and lots of others can testify that John's been dating Clara Bow, Colleen Mooi-e and Helen Kane, boop­a-doop. Your reporter even suspects him of having a date with Davey (Sonny Boy) Lee during the recent personal appearance of that interest­ing young American in these parts. But there, we'll have to get over those Scripps-Howard tendencies. 
Now just to prove that some people do read your old magazine, Jim Arm­strong, I'm going to offer the follow­ing response to the touching appeal that appeared in this column one month ago. It's from FRANKLYN DOAN who is bowling them over in the field of letters these days; who has "arrived" verj' definitely and will doubtless be endorsing various and sundry things before long. Well, here goes: 
"I read in the latest ALUMNUS that you were so bitterly embroiled in Indiana politics that you had to declare a recess on this business of reporting the wanderings of these '29 Nomads. I don't know how quiet tilings are on the western front, but here's the latest dope on the eastern contingent: HARRY OHLBRICHT pops out of 230 Park Avenue at 12:15 ever}' day to say that McCall's and the Red Book have it all over the Womau's Home Companion and The American Magazine. What's a good synonym for liar, Joe ? . . . DON O'BRIEN and Henrj' team up quite a 
WH, 
'HEN you 30 to team play this Fall — 
bit and they're just now looking for­ward to that Pennsylvania alfair. Around the comer on Lexington .4.ve­nue — The Chrysler Building to be exact—JAMES MARTIN CURRY is doing statistics for W. H. Edgar and Son. If the sugar business ever blows up, hell have to turn Anglo-Sac charine. Across the street from him, at 466 Lexington, GEORGE BYRNE is with the New I'ork Central Lines. Every time we see him he has an arm full of blue prints and I suspect him of planning a private bridge to Rochester. It seems that Rochester 
is George's futuristic city. 
Now to get a little bit up town! The Riverside Drive gang is dwindling some, but still has a lot of punch. WALTER HUGH LAY'NE and JIM CONMEY' live on lloth Street—601— and Conmey says that Broadway and 115th street isn't what it used to be before FRANK PBNDERGAST and JIM FITZPATRICK decided that Chi­cago wouldn't be so bad even if pine­apples are the piece de resistance-CONMEY says that every time he sees Montgomery Ward slip a couple of points, he thinks of PENDER­GAST, so Penny is on his mind prac­tically all day. LAY'NE is going to cut loose with the great American drama some one of these days. LAR­RY CULLINEY is down on 114th street and BERNIE GARBER is over on Momingside Drive. I saw MUR­RAY" Y'OUNG last night and he's teaching a few classes at City College and a few more at George Washing­ton or De Witt Clinton or one of these high schools. I always did get those patriots mixed up. Incidentally, Alexander Hamilton is still pushing up daisies — and after all of these 
 South Bend to see the 
 ride America's Fastest 
electric railway! Let who will join the snail pace automobile procession. 



SOUMORF 
Chicago South Shore & South Bend Railroad 
~ John Hancock Scriej ­
Dependents (Xoar dependents) 
must have an income 
How much of an income have you guar­anteedforyourdependents in case of your death ? Take pencil and paper and ac­tually figure the income yield on your present es­tate. 
A John Hancock agent can tell you how to im­mediately increase your estate through life in­surance, and figure out exactly how much you must lay aside from your present income to make it come true. 
Inquiry Bureau 197 Clarendon St., Boston, Mass. Please send booklet, "This Matter of Success.^* 
Address 
A.C. 
OtcT Sizty-uctn Years inBusinaa ­

years—In Trinity Churchyard, but he wasn't a twentj'-niner anyhow. WAL­TER GREER lives at 12oth and Broadway and rides the subway over to BrookljTi everj' day. Business, not pleasure. 
Joe, if you ever want to realize what a swell break the creatures who ride in cattle cars from the bad lands to the Chicago stock yards are really getting, you should ride the subway for a week straight. PHIL ^VALSH is at the Drive and 110th street, and OLIVER SCHELL is at 520 West 111th street. CON CAREY lives in the same building and is attending Fordham Law. Speaking of law, Johnny's team came back very well against Rensselaer (I'm not even trying to spell it right) Tech last Saturday. The people up around Riverdale like Johnny and his team plenty. 
To get a little farther from home, BILL and Helen CRONIN live at 6212 Sanders Avenue, Rego Park, Long Island, and are visited often by Mr. and Mrs. TOM SHARKEY, Tom being an e.x-'29er. BILL DOYLE— that is WILLIAM FRANCIS TIGHE DOYLE—is working downtown in a banking house, and the same holds true • for WILLIAM FRANCIS DOYLE. They both live in Brooklyn, so the only way that you can tell 'em apart is that W. F. T. Doyle was a knockout in philosophy and W. F. Doyle was the same in history. That was way back ^vhen . . . TOM CANTY lives on 7oth street and is selling insurance. His cousin ART CANTY is in South Yonkers and is a pater familias. CHARLEY JUDGE is with our organization (i. e.. The Crowell Publishing Co.), giring boy salesmen plain and fancy pep talks. After these kids tie into one of his sales talks for two minutes, they begin entertaining hopes of buying out the Federal Reserve System. What I mean is Charley puts out the inspira­tion. 
This Notre Dame Club of New York is going along very well. HUGH O'DONNELL has done a world of good for it, and I think that before long it will be the leading alumni group. Everyone is going to the meeting tomorrow night and they're announcing the Pennsylvania game plans. I understand that several trains are to head toward Philly. 
Had a letter from JIMMY DOR­GAN who is just recovering from a severe attack of ptomaine poisoning. Incidentally, a story in the December American Magazine has in it such characters as BILL CRONIN, LOU NEIZER, JOHNNY DORGAN, BRADY, the enemy quarterback, "RABBIT" BRANNON, TOM RYAN, PEP MANNIX and JOE SCALES. "The Nipper Napoleon" is its name and it proves that fiction is not necessarily the truth. Also heard from L.ARRY MOORE, who is Fox­ing the boys on the west coast." 
So writes Frank Doan, and if he hasn't told the truth about any of you the difficulty can be settled either by writing Frank at The Crowell Pub­lishing Company, 250 Park Avenue, New York City, or by writing to this column, telling a bigger and better one about Doan himself. 
By the way, what's happened to JERRY ROACH? 
JOHN BROWN, who is now enrolled in the U. of Wisconsin law school, is playing one of the leading roles in ""The Mask and the Face," a student production there. 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth -Ave., New Kensington, Pa., Sec'y. 

Dear Jim: 
It certainly did a fellow good to see "Rock" and his men make a clean sweep of the Smoky City, and Pitts­burgh will never forget the way they did it. Quite a few Alumni were in town to see the game and take in the dinner-dance held by the Western Pennsylvania Club. Of course all of the Pittsburghers were there and be­sides I saw BUD WILHELMY, JOE BUTLER, HARRY BUSCHER, DON SCHETTIG, DON MILLER, AUSTIN BARLOW^ ED NEBEL, BILL SCHNEIDER, and REGE M.A.LONEY. 
A little news from Indianapolis is that JOHN ROCAP is working in his father's law office and that WILLLAM KONOP is with the Bell Telephone Company. 
PAUL IRVIN of Washington and JOHN CUMMINGS of Worcester are at the Han-ard Law School. Other schoolboys in the East are LEO LOVE at Columbia and CHARLES MONAHAN at the Wharton School of Commerce. "KEG," the water boy, passes along the information that HENRY HORICA is taking law at the University of Chicago, FR.ANK HAMILTON is at Wisconsin, TOM PURCELL, R.AY RE.ARDON, JACK HOULIHAN, BILL "RED" MCCAR­THY,, and HARRY McKEOWN are at Kent Law School, and TOM ICER­RIG.AN and JOHN MOR.AN are at DePaul University. 
TOM LANTRY and CHARLES DUFFY have located with the Brook­Ij-n Edison Co. HARRY SYLVES­TER is on the sports staff of the New York World. L.ARRY CRONIN is working at Gimbel's in New York City and JACK WALICER has an engineering job ^vith the New York Central R. R. -At present HOWIE SMITH is on the injured list. A little too much action in an independ­ent football game resulted in a dis­located shoulder for Howie. R.A.Y McCOLLUM, JOE LORDI, and FR.ANK DUNN are finding time to attend the Alumni meetings in New York City. 
ED NEBEL and Sally McCaffrey of St. Mary's expect to hear the wed­ding bells ring this month. JOE CORE.\ of Niles, Ohio is to be con­gratulated on the arrival of daughter, Rose Marie. 
DAVE "HAWK-EYE" HORTON is now a proprietor in Erie, Pa. An­other Erie man, BOB WESCHLER, is in the shoe business with his Dad. WALT SCHOLAND is also in the re­tail shoe business. His store is lo­cated in Rochester, N. Y'. where LEO CARNEY is working with the Mohi­can Chain Store Co. BILL SCHNEI­DER, '29, has the agency for the Canada Life Insurance Co. in Butler County, Pennsylvania. 
JOHN YELLAND sailed from Houston, Texas for Genoa, Italy. John expects to see us all in about 5 months. 
RUSSEL SCHEIDLEE is a semi­narian at St. Mary's Seminary, Balti­more, Md. 
A short story by HARRY SYL­VESTER, JR., is featured in the November issue of Columbia, the K. of C. magazine. 
G. P. HEIL is studying medicine at Western Reserve according to a bul­letin from that institution. 
So-long until next month. 





