The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
WnxiAM J. SHERRY, '21 -First Vice-Prtsident WiLLMM B. JONES, '28 Second Vice-President EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 Third Vice-President

Xhc Notre Dame Alumnus 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 VoL 29 No. 6 NOVEMBER-DECEMBER. 1951 
WILLIAM J. SHERRY, '21 lOOI First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa 3, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28....7/02 Meadow Lane, Cheay Chase 15, Md. 
R. CoNROY ScoooiNS, '24. .480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex.
James E. Aimstiong. '25, Editor ­
EDWARD J. BECKMAN, '16 2 East Mill Dr., Great Neck, N. Y.
lohn P. Bums. '34. Managing Editor John N. CacUey. Jr.. '37. Associate Editor DIRECTORS TO 1933 
Tiiis magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dome, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, RICHARD J. NASH, '23 1840 S. Kilbourne, Chicago 23, III. I9I2. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 
DIRECTORS TO 1934 

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 

LEO B. WARD, '20 
R. CoNBOY ScoGCiNS, '24 
Alumni Board Report 
It is always a source of regret that the tremendous contribution made to you by your Alumni Board, the officers and directors of your Alumni Associa­tion, cannot be brought to you in de­tail. But since you might not read it, experience suggests, we prefer to com­promise with both space and e-xperi­ence and give you only the summan', with the sincere hope that each of you will read properly, and extensively, be­tween the lines. 
Because a football weekend is so complicated, the Board met on Satur­day night, for a buffet supper and meeting after the Southern Methodist game. It was a progress meeting, bas­ically, reviewing the work of the 12 standing Committees of the Board. 
The Executive Committee, headed by President Scoggins outlined the many problems of policy involved in University relations, the new Inn. football tickets. Clubs, Classes, and the ALUMNUS. The conclusion: "There is a temptation to assume, because so much alumni activity is now blended with University activity, that we have lost ground. The contrary is almost unbelievably the case. The combined strength of the University and alumni programs has advanced far beyond the individual capacities of either." 
The Foundation Committee, headed by William J. Sherry, reported marked improvement in alumni participation, an emphasis the Board agreed to pur­sue. (New figures are in a separate story in this issue.) 
JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28  .49 Race St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio  
JoH.v H. NEESON, JR., 'CE  767 Summit Lane, Bala Cynwyd, Pa.  
WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10  J2765 N.W. Nicolai St., Portland, Ore.  
Monorary President  LUTHER M. SvyrvGERT, '27  6330 Hahman Ave., Hammond, Ind.  
President  JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25  Director and Secretary  

Class Activities, headed by Edward 

J. Beckman, followed through with suggestions stemming from the Class Secretaries first Conference last June. Some of these are still to be inaugur­ated, waiting on time and clarification of detail, but all forward steps. 
Harvey Foster, chairman of the Club activities program, reported the results of several surveys, and an over­all progress in Club activity, reflected in the Club news pages of the ALUM­NUS each issue. 
William R. Dooley and Chairman Edward Beckman reported on the ex­isting placement programs and the proposed Career Clinic adaptation. Outstanding was the increase in 1950­51 of the number of organizati'ons in­terviewing students for jobs, to 122, from the 58 total of 1949-50, and the outstanding national character of the majority of these organizations. The Career Clinic idea, now in operation through the Notre Dame Club of New York, is being studied for possible cam­pus and other Local Club adaptation. 
Dr. Matthew Weis, chairman of the Religion and Citizenship Committee, urged emphasis on the block and fam­ily rosary and other parish participa­tion by N.D. alumni, and the Commit­tee endorsed the Spiritual Bouquet for Father Cavanaugh's administration as a part of the Testimonial Year. Exten­sion of religious programs to other Catholic alumni was urged by Dr. Weis, also chairman of the Inter-Alumni Association Committee. 
Increasing publicity, not only in the ALUMNUS, but in the general press, was the principal exhibit of the Pres­tige Committee, headed by William B. Jones, who is also chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, not reporting at the Fall meeting. 
Richard J. Nash, chairman of the Preparatory School Relations Commit­tee, reported the completion of a bro­chure for prospective students, pre­pared by Father Thornton and the Alumni Office, and the imminent preparation of a manual to accom­pany this for alumni use. 
Judge Luther M. Swygert submitted the proposals of his Resolutions Com­mittee, and the Nominating Commit­tees submitted the current Ballots as their report. The Resolutions, adopted, follow: (see page 5) 
John Bums lU 
John P. Bums, '34, assistant alumni secretary and managing editor of the ALUMNUS, suffered a nervous exhaustion as the cur­rent issue began to shape up (no, the cause goes back to World War II) arid has been hospital­ized for several weeks. We hope by the time you read this that John will be back in harness, but a prayer or two won't hurt for complete convalescence. 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
iM 


How About the Five Per Cent? 
By JAMES E. McCARTHY, Dean, Notre Dame College of Commerce 
Many alumni have sole or partial influence in the disposition of corpor­ate philanthropy, encouraged by gov­ernmsnt tax exemption to the extent of 5% of corporate income.—^Ed. 
T
HE executives of many American business corporations are coming more and more to realize that they are being presented with a grand op­portunity to prevent the encroach­ment of the federal government upon still another field of activity—a field of activity which has hitherto been quite decentralized. This is the field of higher education. The clamor for federal aid to colleges and universities has been mounting steadily in recent months and years, and the constantly increasing pressure upon Congress to come to the assistance of higher edu­cation probably cannot long be with­stood. 
That the financial plight of a great number of colleges and universities is desperate is a fact well known. Al­though many institutions have long spent more money per student than the student has paid in tuition and fees — bridging the gap by drawing upon every possible source of miscel­laneous revenue and even using en­dowment funds — the skyrocketing costs of operations of the past decade have made it all the more difficult for them to remain solvent. On one side, the mounting costs have to be met — but on the other, it has been impos­sible to raise tuition charges and fees commensurately — impossible, that is, unless a college education is to be made prohibitively expensive for the great mass of young men and women. 
That the business corporations of the country have a vital stake in higher education as it is organized at present, is also a generally accepted 
fact; indeed, it is a fact so largely taken for granted that we are inclined to give it little thought. Not only do such corporations recruit a great num­ber of college graduates for their ad­ministrative and technical penonnel, but they also gain many direct bene­fits — often substantial ones in the financial sense — from the research and thinking that go on in college classrooms, laboratories, libraries, and offices. Their stake is in research and thinking that remain unregimented — and they must, therefore, fear that fed­eral aid to higher education may turn out, in time, to be federal manage­ment of higher education. 
But there is a price which business corporations must pay if they wish to prevent federal encroachment — if they wi.sh to continue to enjoy the ben­efits of the freedom of research and thinking which at present characterizes American colleges and universities. If free colleges and universities are to survive, they must have money to overcome the finanical difficulties with which they are now struggling; if the money is not to come from the federal government, it must come from other sources. And much of it, presumably, should come from business corpora­tions. Much of it indeed, should come wholeheartedly from business corpora­tions, for as Beardsley Ruml and The­odore Geiger have put the matter— 
"A dollar wisely and soundly in­vested in worthwhile educational, scientific and welfare activities comes back manyfold over the longer term. Expenditures which contribute to these ends are neither an unnecessary burden nor a tire­some obligation. Like investment in new plant and equipment, they more than repay their cost in the 
DEAN MCCARTHY 
future and can be among the most productive and remunerative forms of business expenditure."* 

The amazing thing about corpora­tion support for higher education is that it need not be particularly expen­sive. The financing of the deficits of colleges and imiversities does not mean a cost to the corporations equal to the amoimt of the deficits. Far from it. The reason for this paradoxical con­clusion is that corporation contribu­tions can be substantially offset by tax savings. The federal revenue laws per­mit business corporations, in comput­ing net income subject to the income taxes, to deduct contributions for edu­cational, scientific, and welfare pur­poses up to five per cent of net income 
— a concession which is extraordinari­ly important in these times when cor­poration tax rates are so very high, and which becomes even more impor­tant now that the Revenue Act of 1951 has boosted the combined normal and surtax rate to 52 per cent, and has 
* From a namphlet entitled "The Five Per Cent" published by the National Plan­ning Association, Washington, 1951—Page 13. 
placed the combined normal, surtax, and excess profits rate at 82 per cent. Thus, if a corporation with sufficient income to put it well into the 52 per cent brackets were to contribute, say $100,000, for educational purposes, the net cost of its contribution would be only $48,000, for the remaining $52,­000 would have to be paid out any­way—to the ta.v collector if not to the educational institution. Even more dramatically, a corporation which finds some of its income spilling over into the excess-profits category could con­tribute, say $100,000, in the full reali­zation that it would thus be incurring a cost of only $18,000! 
Although corporations have been permitted since 1936 to deduct con­tributions made for educational, sci­entific, and welfare purposes, they have exercised the privilege only mod­erately! Such deductions, for example, amounted to only .41 per cent of net income in 1936, to .46 per cent in 1939, and to .35 per cent in 1941. Be­fore the war, however, the tax-saving feature was not very significant, since the corporation tax rates were quite modest. But the leap in ta-x rates of the war and postwar periods should have changed the attitude of corpora­tion managements much more than it did. I t is true that contributions reached a high of 1.24 per cent of net income in 1945, but they fell off to .84 per cent in 1946, and still further to .70 per cent in 1948, the latest year for which statistics are available. 
In pondering upon the question whether or not to step up the amount of their contributions to take advan­tage of the bargain-basement prices of good will and other benefits, as cited above, corporation executives must of necessity have in mind the fact that, should they ignore the opportunity' that is offered them, they may well bs called upon to foot the bill for the deficit in higher education anway. For if a program of federal aid to higher education is launched, corpora­tions may be expected to bear much of the burden via the tax-route — it hardly needs to be argued that corpor­ations are the happy hunting ground for tax gatherers when new program^ of expenditure are decided upon. 
What is more, the legal aspects of contributions by corporations appear to offer little in the way of difficulties. According to section 23 (q) (2) of the internal revenue code, contributions 
up to five per cent of net income may be deducted if made to corporations, trusts, community chests, funds and foundations that arc organized and operate exclusively for religious, chari­table, scientific, literary, or educational purposes or for the prevention of cru­elty to children; and there is the addi­tional provision that no part of the contributions may benefit private shareholders of the recipient and no substantial part may be used in carry­ing on propaganda, or otherwise at­tempting, to influence legislation. Under the state corporation laws, the question sometimes arises as to wheth­er directors can prove specific benefits to their corporations when they spend corporation funds for educational, sci­entific, and welfare purposes; but, in ordinary' circumstances, it should not be difficult for directors to justify such expenditures. At least 12 states, in­deed, have adopted laws which are generous in interpreting what benefits corporations making contributions; for example, the New York law sanctions expenditures for "activities conducive to the betterment of social and eco­
nomic conditions" without requiring a proof of direct benefit to the corpora­tion. It might be added, too, that in case of "family corporations," ques­tions of corporate benefit are not like­ly to be of much importance, since the directors and stockholders are very likely to be the same people, or at least people who are in close accord in their viewpoint. 
To employ the five-per-cent deduc­tion provisions of the federal revenue laws most advantageously, corpora­tions should presumably have well-designed plans as to what they wan": to do and how they want to do it. It is sometimes said that the motive for corporation giving has too often been the fear of criticism rather than the expectation of advancing specific in­terests and making a positive contribu­tion to the general welfare. Because they have given haphazardly, corpora­tions have often exerted little influence upon the beneficiaries of their dona­tions. But the number of corporations having positive programs is constantly growing. Thus the Ford Motor Com­pany inaugurated this year a plan of providing annually for children of it; employees 70 scholarships for full four-year undergraduate courses in accred­ited colleges and universities as chosen 
by the beneficiaries themselves. A sig­
nificant feature of a Ford scholarship is that it not only covers most of the tuition and living e-xpenses of the stu­dent but also includcj an additional grant of $500 per year to the educa­tional institution selected by the stu­dent if it is a private one — this in rec­ognition of the fact, mentioned above, that present tuition charges rnd fees arc not enough to cover the costs of education per student. Sears, Roebuck and Company annually finances nearly a hundred undergraduate scholarships for students in land-grant colleges who plan to make agriculture their life's work. The Bulova Watch Company has established and supports a voca­tional school for training disabled vet­erans in watch repairing. And many distinguished corporations — includ­ing the Aluminum Company of Amer­ica, the American Tobacco Company. the Proctor and Gamble Companv, the Standard Oil Company of Indi­ana, the United States Steel Corpora­tion, and the Wcstinghouse Electric 
Corporation — have contributed to the atomic research program of the University of Chicago. 
One final aspect of corporation con­tributions remains to be mentioned, namely, ui^ency. The urgency of need of institutions of higher learning ha-, already been indicated, but there is also urgency in having corporation managements come to a decision as to the nature and dollar value of their objectives. The matter is urgent be­cause contributions are deductible only if expended within the taxable year, or, at most, within two and a half months after the close of the taxable year if authorized within the ta.xablc year. Contributions cannot be carried forward or backward to reduce the tax liability of other years. Thus little time remains in 1951 for the executives of calendar-year corporations to de­cide what they are going to do — yet great care in the formulation and exe­cution of plans is necessary for wise giving, and speed in giving can be rec­onciled. Messrs. Ruml and Geiger, in the pamphlet cited above, suggest that corporations which want to establish sound programs of contribtuions indi­vidually set-up tax-free corporations for educational, scientific, and welfare purposes, make their contributions to them, and then permit them — taking as much time as may be necessary — to work out their plans of "wise­giving." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

ALUMNI BOARD (Continued from Page 2) Inn will be completed and dedicated sometime in the late winter or early Spring. And in the meantime, the new Iim manager, Mr. E. H. Hunt, experienced hotel man himself, is seeking the counsel of those experi­enced in similar problems, to give Notre Dame alunmi and friends the best possible service, in every way, from the very start of of>eration. 
In a 92-room Inn, with 200 poten­tial alumni for each room, and (on the basis of our non-alumni list of parents and friends) some 160 poten­tial friends for'each of these same rooms, the conflict on some of the highlight days of the year is inescap­able. But the general feeling is that in the 12 months of the year, most of the days will provide aliunni, parents of students, and other friends of Notre Dame, with the long-awaited oppor­tunity to spend a day of two or three in the atmosphere of Notre Dame, which is as difficult to dcTcribe as is the spirit of Notre Dame which it gen­erates. 
The Science Building Not until the New Science Building began to loom as a giant between the Old Gymnasium and the old Chemis­try Hall were its proportions appreci­ated. Now, faculty and students are increasingly anxious to launch in the new structure the advances in chemis­try, physics and mathematics which have been almost impossible to achieve in the crowded facilities of their pres­ent buildings. The rich tradition in chemistry, and the modem impact of both physics and mathematics prog­ress at Notre Dame make the comple­tion and use of the New Science Build­ing — now tentatively set for the Summer —. a matter of anticipation for all alumni and friends, and for the great fields to be served, as well as for those who will personally occupy its facilities. 
The Fred J. & Sally Fisher Residence HaU 
On a campus which is crowded, and at the same time on which the life of the residence hall is the key to its ob­jectives, the rising walls of the new Fred J. and Sally Fisher Mem6rial Residence Hall on the site between the Dining Halls and the Rockne Memori­al has more than the ordinary steam­
«shovel-watching interest for students, faculty and administration. -On the basis of this Fall enrollment, the new facilities will mean that just about all 
RESOLUTION 

\MIEREAS, many local alimuu clubs have utU­bed and are plonnins to utilize the occasions provided by Notre Dame athletic contrsts held away from the campus, to contact alumni, to stimulate local club spirit and to promote the interests of Notre Dame by holding pre*game smokers and post-game dinners and dances, by sponsoring television and radio programs and through other similar means, now therefore 
Be it resolved, the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association express the Association's grati­tude to these clubs for their activities in this regard and for thus proriding a wonderful forum to spread the story of Notre Dame in different sections of the country. 
Be it fur:her resolved, that all other local clubs should be urged to undertake similar activi­ties where appropriate and in keeping with the scope of the particular occasion. 
RESOLUTION 

YVHEREAS, our fellow alumnus Richard Sullivan has written and published recently NOTRE DAME, a book about the Uniiersity and some of 

Father Cavonaugh Testimonial Spotlights Many Activities and Draws Strength From Their Advance 
those who influenced its bcginn'ngs and growth, 
now therefore 
Be it resolved, the Beard of Directors of the Alumni Association express upon behalf of all Notre Oaoie mca their appredaticn to Mr. Sul* livan for his splendid book about our Afaua Mater and particularly for his translation into words that unique Something which ev:ry Notre Dame man comes to know and n^xr forgets^ the Notre Dame Spirit. 
RESOLUTION 

^VHEREAS, an art collectioa of classical pic­tures by old masters and of tapestries having great \-aIue and beauty has been given to the University of Notre Dame by Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, who has also made nossible the new Fisher residence hall, now therefore 
Be it resoK-ed, the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association extend to Mrs, Fisher the appreciation of the Notre Dame alumni for her generous benefacdon, which will add grratly to the cultural Itfe of the Univeriity and be a 
treasured collection in the Liberal and Fine Arts Building. 
On November 15, 5893 alumni had 
already made a financial contribution 
to Notre Dame for the Ninth Annual 
Alumni Fund. This is for the calendar 
year 1951, Since July 1, when gifts 
have been credited, in addition, to the 
1951-1952 Father Cavanaugh Testi­
monial Fund, 2246 alumni have con­
tributed. Non-alumni total 1099, for 
1951. 
Hundreds of Masses, Communions and Rosaries, and many prayers of non-Catholic alumni have already been pledged for Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, for the success of Father Cavanaugh's pro­gram for Notre Dame. 
Very significant, too, of the endorse­ment of his plans, is the sharp increase in the average gift from alumni, since the July 1 opening of the Testimonial Fund. 
The Program Advances 

On every hand, as those who re­turned from home games this Fall have seen, Notre Dame- is enjoying evidences of the splendid administration of its present President. 
New buildings are only a part of the program, although they loom as the major physical change which alumni and friends see from the minute they reach the campus entrance. 
A student spirit in activities, in hall life, in classroom and laboratory is being heralded by faculty and admin­istration as a fitting accompaniment of the general advancement of Notre Dame. Clubs, athletics, debate, drama, music, all are sharing the belief that Notre Dame has reached a new peak 
of achievement, but a peak which pro­vides a solid base from which to build anew. 
The Morris Inn In traveling this Fall — and the Foundation and Alumni staff have been traveling among many of the Foundation City Committees and Lo-
REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C. His Achievements Keep Ahead of the Testimonials 
cal Alumni Clubs in the East and Middle West, — one of the key ques­tions is "What about the Inn?" 
Obviously,' from the pictures and your visits, you can see that the beau­tiful gift of the late E. M. Morris, '06, is shaping up as an attractive welcome spot at the campus entrance. 
Policies, in the absence of precedent, are not shaping up so rapidly. The 
of those who wish campus residence next September can be accommodated, a vital "factor in Notre Dame's pro­gram. 
And those who watch this Hall go up cannot forget that Mrs. Fisher has also, by her generous gift of $250,000 for a Student Loan Fund, already en­abled many boys to complete an edu­cation which rising costs might other­wise have halted. Nor can they be any less appreciative that her latest gift of an art collection valued at $1,200,000 will be a part of the new Liberal and Fine Arts Building which %vill enrich the cultural lives of all who visit Notre Dame, and the lives and memories of all students. 
Tie I. A. O'Shaughncssy Liberal and Fine Arts Building 
Fourth of the great new buildings is the I. A. O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, already at a con­struction stage which indicates its ap­propriate facing on the East, across the long and beautiful plaza of the Rockne Memorial. 
And to all who cherish the oldest traditions, the deep roots of the liberal arts, from which the University de­rived its life and its strength, this is one of the great assets of the years ahead, and one of the most valuable safeguards for the future contributions to a moral responsible leadership. All of the Colleges, and especially the many departments in liberal and fine arts, will benefit from the modem housing which Mr. O'Shaughnessy's generosity is providing. 
Other ProgTams 
The program of the Natural Law Institute, presented in a separate stor%' in this bsue, reflects the great progress in the Institute itself, and its increas­ing contribution to the legal profession and the nation-wide understanding of the roots of the American system of law. 
The meeting in November of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, to­gether vrith the Fall meetings of the Advisory Councils on Commerce and Science and Engineering, have re­emphasized the great progress which Notre Dame derives from the generous participation of leading American business and professional men. The Fall meeting of the Alumni Board wjis similarly reflective of the guidance of a vital segment of Notre Dame activ­ity through the unselfish efforts of alumni. 
The accompanying chart of the Foundation figures, at the time of go­ing to press, is perhaps the most tangi­ble yard-stick of the endorsement by friends and alumni of the faith in Notre Dame's program and progress as a continuing bulwark of strength in the increasingly vital field of leader­ship based on moral training. Never has the Notre Dame story been so widely told by such a large number of loyal friends and alumni to so recep-
The University of Notre Dome Foundation 
1948 $23,000,000 1958 
DEVELOPMENT 
Number Amount 
Alumni— 1948 6,973 $451,896.28 1949 _. 7,517 306,231.16 1930 6,824 2,052,384.07 1951" 5,094 202.676.13 
Friends— 1948 691 163,041.14 1949 1 158 •1,910,416.21 1930 _ . 2,666 •885,995.11 1951** 1,099 248,787.49 
Total— 1948 7,664 614,939.42 1949 8,675 2,416,64737 1930 9,490 2,938,379.18 1951»* 6,193 451,463.62 
* Includes fellou-ships, grants for research, gifts 
ol equipment. **To Nov, :mbcr 15, 1931. 
tive a national audience. There is, of course, a long way to go before next July if we are to achieve the $3,000,­000 objective. But we feel that the story is being told, and that the truth, laid before the maximum number of alumni and non-alumni, will produce the means whereby Notre Dame will continue to realize its tremendous ends. 
Father Cavanangh's sermon on the Church of the Air on November 25 is only a symbol of the personal leader­ship he has contributed to this prog­ress. Press, radio and television have increasingly reflected both his personal achievement and the fruits of the pro­gram he has fostered so ably. 
Publications, and increasing repre­sentation of Notre Dame in various national learned societies, increasing recognition of the University's own publications in the academic field, are satisfying evidence of the balance in­herent in the program. 
The Alumni Association and the Notre Dame Foundation appeal with confidence to alumni and friends to seize this year-end opportunity for giving, with the added benefits of in­dividual and corporate tax deductibil­ity, so that 1951 will top any previous record for participation and amoimt; and the last half of the Father Cava­naugh Testimonial Fund in 1952 will see the immediate objective achieved, and the long-range program moved into the subsequent pattern of the suc­ceeding administration. 

Peace Contest 
A University of Notre Dame senior has been awarded first prize in the 1951 national contest of the Interna­tional Peace Speech Association. 
Joseph Conwell, of Greensburgh, Pa., a senior in the College of Arts and Letters, was named national cham­pion in the contest for an oration en­titied "If You Should Go to Young-wood." Conwell qualified for national comptetition by winning the Indiana state crown last spring. He was coached by Prof. William J. Elsen, head of the department of speech. 
Conwell's oration was one of 11 selected by the Ohio Council of Churches as a basis for the declama­tion for their Prince of Peace contests. The prize was contributed by the Board of Peace and Social Concerns of the Five Years Meeting of Friends, Richmond, Ind. 

More Awards for N.D. 
The University of Notre Dame has been cited by the Institute of Inter­national Education in New York for an "outstanding contribution to the advancement of world understanding." And Father John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c.j has been awarded a certificate by the Institute for "bettering the foreign re­lations of the United States through the medium of the international ex­change of persons." 
The citation was given because of the University's acceptance of foreign students on the campus. Notre Dame is a member of the Institute. 




NOTRE DAME 


Books 

NOTRE DAME 
By Richard Sullivan 
A book miew by Walter Ttohan, '26, appearing in the Chicago Tribune Magazine of Books, Sept. 9. 

, For a little while, all too brief as the days of man go, some of us are part of a university. We walk under great trees tossing feathery branches or wearing sleeves of snow. We enter a confraternity of exuberant fellowship. We reel to the impact of ideas and beauty — sometimes, though we would be the first to deny it, we absorb some­thing of them. 
We discover the arts; either to swell 

that mystic company which, generation 
after generation, has delighted in dis­
cussion of them; or to join that larger 
company, which has learned to avoid 
them. Gala-xies of thought sxvirl about 
us. Now and then we are touched 
with their celestial fire. 
Few of us are able to tell what our 

university means to us; some never try. 
An e-xception is Richard Sullivan, who 
took the fire in his scholastic days and 
now carries the torch as a professor of 
English and a nationally known author 
to kindle younger minds. 
In this book he looks to a larger au­dience in interpreting his University to those who know it and those who know it not, except as a favored resi­dence of victory in football. To him, Notre Dame is the endurance of a culture, a blend of all that has gone before from the dark paganism of the Druids to the academia of Plato, the • facets of revealed truth and the light­nings of thought that flash across the brain of man. 
At Notre Dame, Mr. Sullivan caught a feeling of life and of human fate and of learning and of the spiritual which he deeply admires and which has be­come a part of him. He develops what Notre Dame means to him, aware that this is what it has meant to others less fluent than himself, as one realizes that an old tune is familiar even if for­gotten. 
The result is not altogether a bad one, to paraphrase the late Father Joseph Leonard Carrico, that master of understatement who pleased and 
Mr. Richard Sullivan presents a first editiim at ha book, 'WOTRE DAME," to Hk Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman. That is Atumtty James McG<ddrick, I^endeat of the Notre Dame Metropolitan Qub, looking on. (SFC Photo.) 
inspired Mr. Sullivan and this re­viewer. 
Those who seek tales of heroism on the football field will be disappwjinted, although there is a vignette of stadium excitement before the kickoff that is an essential of the Notre Dame story. But those that seek heroism wll find it aplenty in the Rev. Edward Frederick Sorin, c.s.c, and the founding fathers who came from France more than a century ago bearing culture as though it were some sacred fire. 
This they nursed through fire and cholera to build an enduring institu­tion. 
All of this history is mood rather than detail. It is part of what makes Notre Dame different, as Mr. Sulli­van finds religion makes Notre Dame different. But it is only part of the difference, because other schools have history and other schools have reli­gion. In his search for the answer to the spirit of Notre Dame, Mr. Sulli­van takes us to the feet of inspired teachers like the beloved Charlie Phil­lips; the inquisitive Jerome, first Amer­ican to send a radio message; and the Rev. Julius Nieuwland, c.s.c, the chemist who threw his life into the retort so that the flame of knowledge might glow the brighter. 
He takes us to the great presidents like the Rev. John W. Cavanaugfa, c.s.c, and to the inspirational drive that was Knute Kenneth Rockne. He walks us around St. Joseph's and St. Mary's lakes and into the mystery of Lobund, the only germ proof labora­tory in the world. He takes us into residence halls and their robust way of life and into the serenity of the chapels and the vaulted dimness of the spired church. 

Mr. Sullivan, in the modesty of true ability and deep affection, is frank to state he doesn't know the answer to what is Notre Dame. Yet, he has re­vealed far beyond his own expectations the Notre Dame the men of Notre Dame know and love. He has lit a literary candle with devotion and abil­ity that does himself and his alma mater proud. 
Other Notre Dame Books for Christmas Giving 
{Ed Note: You cam solve many of your Christmas gift problems, and at the same time indoctrinate many friends ivith many phases of ^otre Dame, hy using the increasimg lists of Notre Dame books rC' fleeted in the pages of the ALUMNUS.) 
The ALUMNUS does not pretend to the scholarly and scientific review sec­tions in which most of these same books may be discovered by those who wish the more serious approach. Our appeal is to the community of inter­ests which give these books a common denominator over and above their several technical excellences. 
The Soviet Union, Background, Ide­ology, Reality, a Symposium. Edited by Waldemar Gurian, (University of Notre Dame Press. $3.50). 
This volume of 216 pages, com­prises the significant proceedings of the widely publicized Symposium on Sovi­et Russia held at Notre Dame under the Notre Dame-Rockefeller-sponsored Committee on Interantional Relations. Ablv edited bv the exnerienced and scholarly Dr. Gurian, the book pre­sents: (1) The Development of the Soviet Regime from Lenin to Stalin by Dr. Gurian, (2) Historical Back­ground of Soviet Thought Control bv Michael Karpovich of Harvard, (31 Results of Soviet 5-Year Plans bv Naum Jasny of Stanford. (4) Soviet Exploitation of National Conflicts in Eastern Europe by Philip E. Moselv of Columbia, (5) Methods of So\aet Penetration in Eastern Eurape bv Stephen Kertesz of Notre Dame, (6) Aims and Methods of Soviet Terror­ism by Vladimir Petrov of Yale, {!) Religion in Russia 1941-1950 by N. S. Timasheff of Fordham and. (8) Church and State in Central Europe 
by Francis Dvomik of Harvard. This outline of subject matter and scholarly source is all the understanding reader needs to grasp the richness of the S^-m­posium and the great contribution these proceedings have made in th's timely and challenging field. 
Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy, by Ferdinand A. Hermens, (University of Notre Dame Press. 291 pp. $4.) 
This second book published by the Notre Dame-Rockefeller Committee on International Relations is the work of Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, Notre Dame faculty member now on leave of absence in Europe for further stud­ies. Dr. Hermens is a graduate of Bonn and studied in the London School of Economics and Political Sci­ence. He is a recognized author and contributor to many political periodi­cals. In this volume he strives to secure for the democratic efforts of continental Europe a "political Mar­shall plan" which will enable them to establish their democratic principles. He contends that these governments. 
separately, are now stymied in these efforts and He perilously between the democracy we wish them to achieve and the anarchy from which new chaos and possible invasions of new tvrannies might well arise. 
For the football follower of Notre Dame, still, we accept, numbered in larger companies than thos2 who fol­low the political or the scientific, ther2 are several recent treats of N.D. sig­nificance: 
Dementia Pigskin, by Francis Wal­lace, '23, (Rinehart & Co. $2.75) is the latest contribution of the • widely known former president of the Alumni Association to the football lore of the United States. If your Christmas menu includes assorted nuts, Wallace con­tributes a delightful handful in the various outbreaks of enthusiasm which accompany the following of football among the top teams of these United States. He does it with the rich sym­pathy and the interpretative philoso­phy of one who not only miderstands, and who has promoted these manifes­tations, but who has for 30 years been an ardent participant. It goes without saN-ing that Notre Dame is not infre­quently mentioned, along with those sung and unsung heroes who have made up the broader patterns of Notre Dame football, Frank also indicates the broader pattern of his own career in the equally fascinating tales from the campus and dressing ro3m of most of the other leading elevens of the great pigskin parade. It is a pleasant book to read, full of happy highlights, a book for which Dad and Junior can well flip a coin to read first. 
With Rockne at Notre Dame, by Eugene "Scrapiron" Young, '27. (G. 
P. Putnam's Sons. $3.75.) To'all who remember the colorful Scrapiron Young, student, iron man of track, trainer, and for many years, 1929 to 1945, a philosopher of the athletic de­partment, this book will be a delightful experience. It is, as one reader ex­pressed it, "definitely not ghost-vmt­ten, it is Scrap himself." It is actually, in spite of his relatively young status, au autobiography of Eugene Young, in which Rock and the parade of ce­lebrities who moved across the Notre Dame sports horizon from 1922 to the present (when Scrap is trainer at the 
U. of San Francisco) provide a vivid and intriguing series of contacts and comments. For trainers and athletes 
interested in the secrets of staying in 
shape, there are te.xt-book benefits, but 
the ALUMNUS recommends its differ­
ent and colorful saga of sports as seen 
through the stripped and steaming at­
mosphere behind the scenes by an 
enthusiastic participant. 
The Rose Bowl Game, by Rube 
Samuelson (Doubleday & Co. Inc. 
$3.50). This book is of interest to 
Notre Dame men and their friends for 
the "Last Ride of the Four Horse­
men," the colorful account of the Rose 
Bowl game of 1925, when Notre Dame 
defeated Stanford 27-10 in its only 
Rose Bowl game. Samuelson also fea­
tures an Appendix in which the line­
ups, statistics, scores by quarter, etc. 
of the famous Series are listed. 
General su^estions would include 
for the religious Father Patrick Pey­
ton's Ear of God; for the lovers of 
good fiction and clean satire Vem 
Sneider's Teahouse of the August 
Moon; for the young lad Frank 
Leahy's books on the T-Formation. 
For the non-Catholic friend the works 
of Rev. John A. O'Brien, distinguished 
ptopular apologist of the Notre Dame 
faculty, make an inva'.uable gift. 
What's the Truth About Catholics, and Sharing the Faith are Father O'Brien's latest volumes. Our Sunday Visitor Press, Huntington, Ind. 
THE JUGGLER OF NOTRE DAME 
Most of you who are reading this \vill remember what we're talking about when we speak of the student publication The Juggler. Quite a few of you have written for it while a stu­dent, and surely most of you have read it. 
The Juggler of Notre Dame is in­tended to provide an outlet for the creative work of the embryonic artists of the University. It provide3 an in­centive for young writers, and helps them to truly and objectively acquire an evaluation of their own work. The publication is issued three times yearly. 
Because the publication is "literary," however, its circulation is sometimes low. The present is one of those times. The Juggler is in trouble — financial trouble. Because of the quality of the stories and the interest it can have for the reader, the situation should be al­tered. And the Juggler editors are ask­ing the cilumni for help. They are announcing that subscriptions can be obtained by sending $1 to The Juggler, Publications Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 




ATHLETIGS 
Basketball 
Coach Johnny Jordan has cut his squad to 18 men, a squad which prom­ises to give Notre Dame a thoroughly interesting and possibly very successful season. 
The ALUMNUS calls particular at­tention of the Notre Dame Clubs of the Twin Cities, Madison, Indianap­olis, Louisville, Milwaukee, Lansing, Buffalo, Pittsburgh, Chicago, St. Louis, Baltimore, New York and Philadel­phia, to the opportunities afforded them on the occasion of the visits of the basketball team to their communi­ties. In several instances, this is not necessary, because the Clubs are old and valued hands at making these oc-

Basketball Schedule 
Dec 1 St. Thomas College .\t St. Paul, Minn. Dec. 4 Wabash College At Notre Dame De c 8 Univ. of Wisconsin At Madison Dec. 11 Northwestern Univ. At Notre Dame Dec. 17 Loyola Univ. At Notre Dame Dec. 22 Univ. of Penn*a. At Notre Dame Dec. 28 Indiana Univ. Ac Indianapolis Dec. 29 Purdue Univ. At Indianapolis 
Jan. 2 Mich. State College At Notre Dame Jan, 5 Univ. of Louisville At Louisville Jan. 8 Butler Univ. At Notre Dame Jan. 12 Marquette Univ. At Klilwaukee Jan. 15 Mich. State College At Lansing Jan. 25 Canisius College At Buffalo, N. Y. Jan. 28 Univ. of Pittsburgh At Pittsburgh 
Feb. 2 Univ. of Kentucky \t Chicago Stadium Feb. 4 Northwestern Univ. \t Evanston, III. Feb. 7 Marquette Univ. ^t Notre Dame Feb. 9 St. Louis Univ. \t St. Louis Feb. 11 Butler Univ. \t Indianapolis Feb. 14 DePaul Univ. \ t Notre Dame Feb. 18 Pittsburgh Univ. \t Notre Dame Feb. 23 U.S. Naval Academy \t Annapolis. Md. Feb. 25 New York Univ. \t New York Feb. 26 Univ. of Penn'a. \t Philadelphia 
Mar. 1 DePaul Univ. \t Chicago Stadium 
casions enjoyable for the squad, for the alumni, and for many friends of the University. 
Commenting on the critical era in basketball, especially in its games in public arenas, Johnny Jordan said re­cently: "Notre Dame has benefitted a lot from basketball, just like she has from football, and we owe it to the sport to keep it on the same high plane. We're going back to the big arenas the same as Irish teams have done for years. . . . We aren't branch­ing out any, but it's just that our sched­ule calls for games in Madison Square Garden, Chicago Stadium and Kiel Auditorium in St. Louis. There'll be a few who will stay away or call the game dishonest, but it's really some­
thing that could have happened to any 
sport. . . ." 
Like the football squad, Jordan's 
starting hneup indicates at this writing 
three members from the 1950-51 fresh­
man team — Joe Bertrand, forward; 
Ray Rosenthal, center; and Entee 
Shine, guard. Leroy Leslie, forward; 
and Don Strasser, guard, are the cur­
rent starting choices to round out the 
team, with McCloskey, Lewinski, Neu­
mayr and Gibbons of last year's squad 
pressing for top billing. 
The Pennsylvania and Michigan 
State games, during the holidays, will 
permit home crowds other than the 
students to see the Notre Dame team 
in action. 
Football 
Your Editor is taking over this page for this issue, \vith a purpose. Notre Dame football had what, for Ntitre Dame, was called a "bad season" in 1950. And in the current season of 1951 (at this writing) Southern Meth­odist and Michigan State, with crowd-thrilling displays of skill and power, have defeated Notre Dame. Southern California may do the same thing. 
The purpose is simply to call atten­tion, to you and any interested non-alumnus, that Notre Dame — too of­ten charged with spearheading big time football — is showing none of its undesirable fruits. 
Crowds still make the ticket prob­lem difficult. The confidence of our alumni is the confidence that can only come when the University administra­tion is alumni, when an alumnus is the head coach, when a number of sons of alumni are on the squad; in other words when you feel that your best in­terests are being ser\'ed in football, no matter what the Saturday scoreboards show. This lack of hysteria is one of the great assets of Notre Dame, one of the personal compensations for Frank Leahy, a genuine source of deep ap­preciation for your Alumni Office. 
You know more about football, most of you, than the Editor. You are well aware that many freshmen are holding down key posts on this 1951 team, freshmen in the older order, 18 and 19 years old. Our schedule is a schedule for experts. They have come a long and creditable way, fast. In a world like GUIS, we should be willing to save our miracles for more difficult days. We believe you feel that way, and that you join the ALUMNUS in appreciation of the work the coaching staff has done, and the spirit with which staff, team and school have continued to pursue the wholesome aims of inter­coll^iate athletics. 
The schedule, with scores of games to date: 
Sept. 29 . . Indiana. 6; Notre Dame, 48 Oct. 13 . . So. Methodist, 27; Notre Dame, 20 Oct. 20 . . Pittsburgh, 0; Notre Dame, 33 Oct. 27 . . Ftmhie, 9; Notre Dame, 30 Nov. 3 . . Navy, 8; Notre Dame, 19 Nov. 10 . . Michigan State, 35; Notre Dame, 0 Nov. 17 . . North Carolina, 7; Notre Dame, 12 Nov. 24 . . Iowa, 20; Notre Dame, 20 Dec I . . Southern California vs. Notre Dame 
The ALUMNUS operates its sports section on the present theory that sports are of general interest, a com­mon denominator of experience for all alumni, but also on the theory that so much information regarding Notre Dame sports is available in other chan­nels that the infrequent appearance of the ALUMNUS makes such data non-news and simply late duplication. But if you would like to have us build a special department aroimd the sports and the angles on sports that are not to be found in the pubUc press, let us have some indication of this interest, and the Editors will assure you of a try. 
For example, Alex Wilson, track coach and one of Notre Dame's all time great nmners, led his cross-coun­try team to the Central Intercoll^ate Conference title in Chicago on Nov. 16. 
The Notre Dame B team, which tied Purdue, but was knocked over badly in Memphis by the powerful Tennessee B eleven, lists as members such famil­iar and promising names as Wynne, Metzger and Kigali, sons of Chet, Bert and Joe, resjiectively. 
Veteran Baseball Coach Jake Kline (Clarence to the careless), has taken some very moderate seasons to heart and has had his candidates out for a busy Fall. 
IMPORTANT BULLETIN 
The Notre Dame Qiib of Ciodm­
nati is having a eocktail party for 
all Notre Dame ahmmi coaches at­
tending the N.CIAA. convention 
there, Wednesday, Jan. 9, 6:30^8:30, 
in the Sheratim-Gibson HotcL 

A part of the Notre Dame law alunmi, attending the 3rd annual luncheon in conjunction with die American Bar Association meeting. President William B. Jones introduced a galaxy of talent, including His Eminence Frands Cardinal Spellnian; Very Rev. Christopher O'TooIe, CS.C, superior-general of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Rev. Theodore Hesbu^h, C5.C, and prominent Notre Dame law­yers and judges from throughout the nation. 
K.D. Man to High Contribution by Classes St. Edward's U. Observes 
From January I to Nmcmber 15, 1951 

Post With W.S.B. Diamond Jubilee 
Thomas F. Coman, a journalist St. Edward's University of Austin, graduate of 1925, was sworn in on Class Texas, observed Founder's Day on 

11 II 

August 30 as a public member of the Oct. 13, feast of St. Edward, patron 
l5 i6 U

National Wage Stabilization Board. of the University, and of its founder, This IS-man Board is composed equal­1900 and before *201 $2310.00 9.9 $115.50 Rev. Edward Sorin, c.s.c. 
1901 21 90.00 23.8 18.00 

ly of the public, labor, and industry. 1902 34 105.00 11.7 26.25 
This year's celebration marked the 

1903 33 373.00 33.3 33.90 I90t 40 1255.00 32.5 96.53 seventy-fifth observance of the day at 
Its main purpose is to carry out the 

purposes and intent of the Defense 1905 37 1220.00 27.0 122.00 
St Edward's; the institution having 
1906 48 6963.00 27.0 535.61 

Production Act insofar as it requires 1907 30 175.00 23.3 25.00 been dedicated to St. Edward in 1876 stabilization of wages and salaries co­1908 45 1748.00 26.6 145.66 
1909 60 10 3730.00 16.6 373.00 when the fiRt school buildings were incident with the stabilization of prices. 1910 
43 12 1327.00 27.9 110.58 

1911 erected and classes begun at what was 
In addition to its recommendation of 93 22 1682.50 23.6 76.47 
1912 21 5509J0 23.8 262.35 then St. Edward's Academy. 
piolicies and formulae, the Board,also 1913 _ 75 19 1835.00 25.3 96.57 administers to the extent that thou­1914 _ 111 27 1008.00 24.3 37.33 The present university charter dates 
1915 
_ 97 3475.00 31.9 112.09 

1916 31 from 1925, in which year the name of 
sands of cases are submitted for ap­_ 91 18 I124J0 19.7 62.47 1917 _ 117 3443.88 20.5 143.49 the school was changed to St. Ed­
24 

proval. The agency has a limited dele­1918 _ 96 25 
88930 26.0 35.38 

1919 16 ward's University. Since then colleges 
gation of authority from the President 1920 _ 84 1005.00 19.0 68.43 
_ 123 

28 1550.00 22.7 55.35 of arts and sciences, commerce and en­
to deal with labor disputes which 1921 _ 134 44 
7162.00 32.8 162.77 

1922 _210 57 2558.13 27.1 gineering have been established; and affect the production of national de­1923 GO 44.87 
_ 260 
8783.67 23.0 146.39 

1924 62 this fall evening classes for men and 
fense materials and essential civilian 1925 _274 2542.50 22.6 41.00 _ 373 HI 6798.25 29.7 61.24 women in the Austin area were inau­
goods. 1926 
1927 _ 316 81 7365.10 23.6 90.92 
gurated. St. Edward's also offers 

1928 _437 105 7007.67 24.0 66.74 The apjx)intment is the recognition 1929 _ 488 98 6857.70 20.0 6937 junior and senior high school courses 
1930 _533 98 11188.44 18.3 114.16 

of an outstanding newspaper career, 1931 -544 126 4080.25 23.1 32.38 for both day and boarding students. 1932 _ 582 146 5451.50 23.0 37.34 
which included the "covering" of 1933 _578 120 4232.00 20.7 35.26 While St. Edward's is a Catholic 

three of these Boards in the last 10 1934 -578 136 3134.50 23.5 23.04 1935 _ 577 136 3341.75 23.6 
school, it, like Notre Dame, welcomes 

years. For many years Coman was an 24J7 
1936 _ 559 157 4687.94 28.1 29.85 
students who profess other religious 

able newspaper man, working first 1937 -457 115 3722J0 25.2 32.36 
1938 -500 115 2290.50 23.0 19SI beliefs. About twenty per cent of the wth the South Bend News-Times, 1939 
-560 126 4537.53 22.5 36.01 

1940 present enrollment are non-Catholic. 
later with the Associated Press, and 1941 _ 600 163 7826.33 27.2 48.01 
_ 707 170 4332J0 24.0 25.48 

still later with the David Lawrence 1942 _ 629 170 3508.30 27.0 20.63 1943 
_ 595 185 2672.83 31.1 14.44 

publications. Father, and grandfather, 1944 Cdr. Sigmund Bobczynski, USN, 
_ 620 159 3060.25 25.6 19.24 
1945 

Coman was, in a quiet and modest _ 536 142 2303.00 26.5 16.21 die present Executive Officer of the 
1946 
_ 330 85 1734.25 25.7 20.40 

way, one of the most respected mem­1947 N.R.O.T.C. unit on the campus, is 
_ 330 83 924.50 25.1 11.14 
1948 

bers of the Washington press corps, in 1949 _ 746 180 2861.00 24.1 15.89 being replaced by Cdr. Raymond 1950 -1079 279 3446.70 25.9 12.35 Payne, USN. Commander Bobczynski 
the difficult field of labor reporting 
-1443 402 507839 27^ 12.63 

1951 goes to the Armed Services Staff Col­
before this high stamp of government -1203 202 2774.72 16.8 13.73 
-9J6 479 1991.87 50.6 4.15 lege at Noifolk, Va. 
approval. 
** Exclusive of religious and deceased. 
Natural Law Institute The 5th Anniversary of the Natural Law Institute, one of Notre Dame's great contributions to modem legal thinking, will be observed on the cam­pus December 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15. The first three days will be devoted to public panel discussions, featuring the speakers from previous Institutes. The last two days will be devoted to an outstanding group of speakers, treat­ing the natural law philosophy in the non-Christian tradition. Dr. Hu Shih, former Chinese ambassador to the U.S., representing Confucianism; Rab­bi Solomon Freehof, Pittsburgh, for the Jewish faith; Prof. Khalifa Abdul Hakim, Institute of Islamic Culture, Pakistan, representing the Moslems, and Prof. Daisetz T. Suzuki, Clare­mont College, Calif., representing Buddhism, lead the program of the two-day Institute proper. The Insti­tute is under the sponsorship, for the 4th year, of Alvin A. Gould, promi­nent Cincinnati business man. The first Institute, in 1947, was made pos­sible by the Notre Dame Club of New York City, an alumni organization. 
Faculty in Politics 
Librarian Paul Byrne has a letter dated March 14, 1850, from the facul­ty, to Henry Clay, congratulating him on his famous Compromise Speech of 1850, and taking the opportunity to stress the Americanism of the Catholic population of the U.S. 
New Commerce Council Member 
Mr. Eugene Hynes, New York City, chairman of the board of Wilson Brothers, was announced as a new member of the Advisory Council of the College of Commerce at its September meeting. Mr. Hynes is also president of the Sheboygan Chair Co., Chair­man of the Board of Wright's Under­wear Corp., New York City, and Chairman of the Board of the Enro Shirt Co., Louisville, Ky. He began his career in 1921 as an investment banker. 
Dr. Calcott Heads S&E Council 
Dr. William S. Calcott, assistant chemical director of the organic chem­icals department of E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., a long time friend of Notre Dame and associate of the late Father Nieuwland, is the new chair­man of the Advisory Council for Sci­ence and Engineering, elected at the Fall meeting October 12-13. His post as vice-chairman was filled by Arthur 
J. Schmitt, president of the American Phenolic Corp., Cicero', 111. 
At the same meeting it was an­nounced that the Council had secured the membership of Julius F. Wolff, Duluth, Minn., recently retired as gen­eral mining engineer for the Oliver Mining Co., which he joined in 1908. 
Faculty Members Impressive Sir John E. Lennard-Jones, profes­sor of chemistry at Cambridge Univer­sity, was the Peter C. Reilly lecturer in chemistry to the faculty and stu­dents of the Department of Chemistry during the week of Nov. 12-19. John H. Sheehan, '37, head of the Department of Economics, was recent­ly appointed to the foreign commerce department committee of the Cham­ber of Commerce of the U.S. "France, along with the world, is looking for a genius who can interpret the social justice principles of the Popes in terms of a workable system," according to Dr. J. B. Duroselle, Dean of the University of Saarbrucken, visit­ing French History professor at Notre Dame. Seventeen members of the Notre Dame History Department are en­gaged in active research, and 11 have had recent publication of their works, • several with multiple media. Prof. Kenneth Campbell, of the De­partment of Chemistry, has been awarded a $3,000 grant by the Micro­biological Institute of the National In­stitutes of Health. He is seeking chem­ical cures for amebiasis and schistoso­miasis, diseases of the intestine. 
New U.S. History Text Two Notre Dame historians,' Rev. Thomas McAvoy, c.s.c, head of the Department, and Dr. Aaron Abell, have collaborated with two Fordham historians and one from the Cardinal Hayes High School^, to publish a text­book for use in colleges and universi­ties. The book, A History of the United States, was "published by the Fordham Press in October. 
NJ>. McdievaBit PdiGskes 
James A. Corbett, of the Depart­
ment of History and an author in the 
Medieval Institute series of publica­
tions at Notre Dame, has published 
recently in Belgium a second volume 
of medieval manuscripts on alchemy, 
largely a catalogue of such docimients 
to be found in the public libraries of 
France outside Paris. His first volume 
in this field, in 1939, listed the Paris 
libraries material. 
Art Gifts Cram Dr. Bosch 
Dr. M. L. Busch, director of the 

Mission Hospital, Hiutington Parle, California, has given three lovely . paintings to the Notre Dame Galler­ies. Latest is "The Madonna With Saints," by Matteo di Giovaimi di Bartolo 1435-95, which is now hanging in the west gallery. The painting was brought to Notre Dame by Dr. Maur­
ice Goldblatt 
The first gift from Dr. Busch was a 
portrait of Madame Brabant by Joseph 
Highmore, and the second a portrait 
of Lady Grenville by George Henry 
Marlow. 
The Giovaimi is a small one, 18 
by 19 inches, valued aroimd $1,000] 
The artist was of the Siennese school, 
the best p^ his time, and is represented 
in the National Gallery in London. 
The Siena Cathedral also benefitted 
from his art. 
Rare Vtrinme GivcB to NJ>. A rare and historic volume entided 
A Short History of the Diocese of 
Cincinnati, has been presented to 
Notre Dame by Joseph Gregorich, Oak 
Park, 111., an engineer interested in the 
study of the Catholic history of the 
Mid-West Written in German and 
published in Vieima in 1829, the Notre 
Dame copy is the only known one in 
the U.S. and is not even listed in the 
British Museum. The book was influ­
ential in setting up the Leopoldine As­
sociation in Vienna to raise money for 
American Catholic Missions. Since 
Notre Dame grew from the interest 
of Father Stephen Badin of the Cin­
cinnati diocese, the volume has special 
significance. 
Duforth FoandatiaB The Danforth Foimdation of St. Louis, Missouri, has announced the in-

auguration of a series of Graduate Fellowships for college seniors and re­cent graduates who are preparing themselves for a career of teaching, either at the college or the high school level, and are planning to enter gradu­ate school in September, 1952, for their first year of graduate study. 
Father Cavanaugh has named Mr. 

B. J. Kohlbrenner, head of the Depart­ment of Education, as the liaison offi­cer to work with the Danforth Foun­dation on the selection of candidates. The qualifications of the candidate as listed in the announcement from the Foundation are: 
a)
 Evidence of superior intellec­tual ability in college record. 

b)
 Good record of health and emotional stability. 

c)
 Outgoing personality' and the concern for people, essential for suc­cessful teaching. 

d)
 Choice of vocation of teaching as form of Christian Service. 

e)
 Deep religious con\nctions and growing religious perspectives. (Foundation is looking for candi­dates who are seriously examining their own religious life, and are seeking a maturing faith and a so­cial outreach.) 


The Ford Scholarships 
Five of a total of thirty-seven bays \vho won scholarships under a imique Scholarship Program. for Sons and Daughters of Ford Motor Company Employees have elected to study at the University of Notre Dame. 
The five Ford Scholars attending Notre Dame are pictured below with the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c. President of Notre Dame, who before entering Notre Dame as a student was himself an employee of the Ford Motor Company. 

The students receiving the award at Notre Dame are: Robert G. Nouhan, of Detroit, Mich.; Philip C. Chinn, of Royal Oak, Mich.; Bernard J. La-Londe, of Dearborn, Mich.; Forest E. Brown, of Louisville, Ky., and James 
J. Cennane, Chester, Pa. 
Recipients of the four year scholar­ships were selected following nation­wide competition among eligible chil­dren of Ford Motor Company employ­ees. All winners receive full tuition and customary academic fees, and for scholarship winners choosing a private­ly-endowed college or university, such as Notre Dame, the Ford Motor Com­pany makes an additional $500 annual grant to such schools for each scholar in attendance, in recognition of the fact that at privately-endowed colleges and universities the student's tuition and fees do not cover the entire cost of his education. 
Ed Mowery, '28, Honored 

Edward J. Mowery, who attended Notre Dame in 1924-25, and came back in 1927-29, a reporter on the New York World-Telegram, has been receiving a sensational number of cita­tions for a newspaper man in recog­nition of his brilliant and timely crack­ing of" the vicious dope-peddling ring that was preying on minors. His ef­fectiveness is the reward of a long hard route from the Lancaster, O. Eagle, through many newspaper jobs of interest and merit, to the King Fea­tures and the metropolitan dailies. His path produces many interesting evidences of creative ability, good writ­ing, and reporting of the Notre Dame school of Frank Ward O'Malley and other illustrious alumni - journalists. Look, The March of Time, the Amer­ican Legion and its magazine, have given Ed deserved publicity. But most satisfying is the active nation-wide program of law enforcement driving the teen-age providers from the scene. 
Prof. Frank O'Malley On 'Review of Politics' 
Mr. John Bums Editor, The ALUMNUS Notre Dame, Indiana 
Dear John: From what you said the other day in the Huddle, I know that you are interested in helping us get the sup­port of the alumni for The Review of Politics. From talking with a good many of them, I gather that they are practically unaware of its existence. also gather that they are quite anxious to subscribe, once they understand the nature of our journal. As an aliunnus myself, it is pleasant for me to think that the editors of The Review have tlus genuine good will and concern. Like many other serious periodicals to­day. The Review can use a lot of sub­scriptions. So we hope that our friends among the alumni will implement their good will by subscribing regularly. 
Five stodcats aie attending Notre Dame this year as the redi^ents of Foid Motor The alumni-at-large need to realize pany »chohnhipfc They are, pictured with Fr. Cavanan^ left to li^t: James Ceanaae, that The Review of Politics is not con­Rehext Noohan, PUIip Cihinii, Bernard LaLonde, and Forest Brown. fined to narrow questions of political 
science or action. It is actually very 
broad in its point-of-view and in its 
subject-matter, for it thinks of politics 
as embracing every event and achieve­
ment affecting the life of man in the 
himian community. Taking our stance 
in the Christian theological and philo­
sophical tradition, we publish articles 
on international problems of every sort, 
on various aspects of American civili­
zation, on the origins and backgrounds 
of modem cultiure, and on religious 
approaches to conditions in contempo­
rary society. And they are written, for 
the most part, by the ablest thinkers in 
the present world. Among the regular 
contributors are distinguished faculty 
members known to generations of 
Notre Dame students. Our alumni, in 
every vocation and profession, will, I 
am certain, find a variety of ideas and 
information of value in each issue*— 
and a great deal more insight into and 
understanding of the crises and direc­tions of contemporary life than the or­dinary newspaper or popular magazine provide. 
In the thirteen years of its existence, The Review has won the praise and cooperation, not only of scholars in all the great centers of learning in this country and abroad but also of men of affairs in every land. We would like to keep up the good work. And oiu: alumni can aid us simply by sending us a subscription — $3.00 the year — to the editors, P.O. Box 4, Notre Dame, Indiana. (If it seems prefer­able, they can just jut their name and address on a penny postcard—and we will bill them later.) We are grateful to those alumni who are listed, some of them from the beginning, as sub­scribers. But we would, naturally, like to see many more of them listed. I am particularly grateful to you, John, for your willingness to do what you can for us through the pages of The ALUM­NUS. In your own good work for Notre Dame and for Notre Dame men every\vhere, you have our sincerest wishes for ever-increasing success. 
Cordially, Frank O'Malley Managing Editor 

* For example, the current (October, 1951) issue has articles on the University of Chicago and the World, The Classicism of Irving Babbitt, Burke and Natural Rights, the Jacobin Phrenzy, De Valera and the Irish Notion of Nationhood, Marx­ist and Sacred History, as well as interest­ing reviews of new and important books in every field. 
Hosts William B. Jones (president), Robert SnlHvan (secretary) and Clarence E. Mamoa (dean of the College) had distinguished guests (seated L to r.) at the Law Assn. Lunch­eon in New York City, Rev. Theodore Heshm^ CS.C., vice-president <rf Notre Dame; His Eminence, Cardinal Spellman; and the Coi^regatioii's Snperior General,. Rev. Chris­topher J. OTooIc^ C.S.C. 
N. D. Aids N.F.C.C.S. 
In diese days of the U.N., NATO, and EGA, it should not come as much of a surprise to find students imiting to further their common objectives. 
Such is the case at Notre Dame, whose undergraduates are all members of the National Federation of Catholic College Students. The Federation, formed by students in the New York area in 1937, now includes in its mem­bership over 200,000 students in vir­tually all the Catholic colleges and imi­versities in the country. Notre Dame joined the NFCCS in 1941. 
Through the NFCCS, students at ND can learn what other schools are doing in the various fields of interest, and vice-versa. 
NFCCS is also a proving grotmd for young leaders. And the important part played by Notre Dame in the Fed­eration's activities is reflected by the work of the many men who have thus been given a chance to put their abil­ity to use. 
For years, Notre Dame led the na­tion in aid to foreign students, mainly through the efforts of Lou Biuns of the Class of '49 and the participation by the student body in the annual Mardi Gras Carnival. 
Tentative plans for this year's pre-Lenten festivities call for the use of a sizable ptortion of the proceeds to set up partial scholarships for deserving ND students. 
Notre Dame also is the seat of the NFCCS National Commission on Catholic Action Study and of the Fort Wayne Region's Inter-American Af­fairs Commission. 
Federation affairs at the University are coordinated by the local NFCCS Council, headed by a junior and a senior delegate and including repre­sentatives of those campus organiza­tions working with the NFCCS com­missions. 
Out of this council thus far this year have come such projects as the Mardi Gras and the new student-fac­ulty round table discussions on contro­versial topics of current interest 
The growth in stature of NFCCS on the Notre Dame campus, especially in the last year has been remarkable, and is expected to. receive another boost should the University's bid to host the Federation's national Congress next stunmer be accepted. 
Noyember-December, 1951 
James Bacon, class of '37, and Charlie Soldani, student in '14 and '15, pose with a friend on HoUywod movie lot. Gary Cooper (left) brought the Notre Dame men together in the set for "High Noon." Bacon is now Hollywood, Calif., correspondent for the Associated Press. There's more on Soldani, an Osage Indian, below. 
N.D. Reporter Finds Ex-Washington Hall Star 
By James Bacon, '37, Associated Press 
HOLLYWOOD, Calif., Oct. 9.— At firstj I thought Gar\' Cooper was kidding me. 
"Hey, Jim," the lanky actor yelled when I first walked on the set of "High Noon," on the western street at Co­lumbia ranch. "I want you to meet Notre Dame's first all-American. 
Cooper pointed to an Indian actor and then introduced me. 
He wasn't kidding. 
The Indian was Charlie Soldani, a student at Notre Dame in 1914 and 1915. Old-timers around South Bend and the campus will remember him in the senior class play of 1914, "The Girl of the Golden West." 
"I was only a freshman," Charlie recalls, "but I got in the play because I was the only one on the campus who looked like an Indian." 
Charlie said a Norwegian from Chi-. cago played his squaw in the play. 
"He later became quite well known 
around South Bend," said Charlie, 
jokingly. "His name was Knute 
Rocknc." 
Charlie said his memorj' of Notre Dame goes back to the days when Walsh hall was the finest on the cam­pus. I told him there have been a few changes on the campus since. 
He asked about many of his old priest friends, Father Farley and others, who have long since died. 
Charlie, of French-Indian descent, came to Notre Dame from Ponca Cit\', Okla. 
"I never graduated," he said, "be­cause I became of age at the end of my sophomore year. That meant I started receiving royalty checks from oil wells in Oklahoma. I just couldn't see getting $400 a week from the oil wells and going to school." 
He moved to California and admits he spent most of his time playing golf until the crash of 1929. 
"A lot of my golfing partners were producers and directors so when I had to go to work for a living, I went into the movies." 
He has been making a very good living for more than 20 years playing Indian roles in westerns and other mo­vies. Now 58, he has been happily married for 20 years to the former Joyce Cooper, who was on the stage in such hit musicals as "Hit the Deck." They have no children. 
Cooper then suggested that we pose for a picture and send it back to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. 
"Notre Dame?" retorted the photog­rapher. "You mean Carlisle, don't you?" 
Heads Morris Inn 
EDWARD H. HUNT 
Edward H. Hunt, veteran hotel manager, has been named Manager of the Morris Inn. Mr. Hunt, who has arrived at Notre Dame to assume his new duties, has been a hotel manager for the past tiventy years. A native of Syracuse, N. Y., he is a graduate of the Goodyear Business College in that city. 
Before accepting the position as manager of the Inn, he had served as Manager of the Langren Hotel in Asheville, N. C, for the past three years. Previously he had spent seven­teen years as Manager of the McCurdy Hotel in Evansville. Ind. 
The Committee on International Relations Series 
Waldcmar Gurian, Director 
M. A. Fitzsimons F. A. Hermens 
W. O. Shanahan Stephen Kertesz 
The Soviet Union: Background, Ideology, Reality and Europe Be­tween Democracy and Anarchy 
are the first two publications sponsored by the Committee on International Relations; seven others are in preparation, and several more are planned. The committee was organized in 1949 by the University of Notre Dame with the partial support of a grant from the Rockefeller Foun­dation. The Committee is par­ticularly interested in the study of the ethical aspects and implica­tions of international relations. 
In Preparation 
The Catholic Church in World Af­
fairs — Edited by Waldemar Gu­
rian and M. A. Fitzsimons 
Diplomacy in the Shadow of the Red 
Star: The Case of Hungary — 
Stephen Kertesz 
The Social Ethic of German Protes­
tantism: 1848-1933 — W. O. Shan­
ahan 
The Foreign Policy of the British Labour Government: 1945-51 — 
M. A. Fitzsimons 
Bolshevism: An Introduction — Wai­demar Gurian 
Christian Democracy in Western Eu­rope — Mario Einaudi 
Panslavism — Hans Kohn 

THE SOVIET UNION: BACKGROUND, IDEOLOGY, REAUTY 
A symposium edited by Waldemar Gurian $3JS0 
' FROM LENIN TO STALIN, by Waldemar Gurian. 
• HISTORICAL BACKGROUND OF SOVIET THOUGHT CONTROL, by Michael Karpovich of Harvard. 
' METHODS OF SOVIET PENETRATION IN EASTERN EUROPE, by 
Stephen Kertesz. 

' SOVIET EXPLOITATION OF NATIONAL CONFLICTS IN EASTERN EU ­
• ROPE, by Philip E. Mosely of Columbia. 
• AIMS AND METHODS OF SO\TET TERRORISM, by Vladimir Petrov 
of Yale. 

' ECONOMICS OF THE SOVIET UNION, by Naum Jasny of Stanford. 
' CHURCH AND STATE IN THE SOVIET UNION, by Nicholas Timasheff 
of Fordham. _ 
• CHURCH AND STATE IN CENTRAL EUROPE, by Francis Dvornik of 
Harvard. 

"This volume represents the most up-to-date and reliable brief introduction to the complex problems of Soviet ideology and reality. It combines expert scholarship and considerable judgment with an awareness of the urgent issues facing all people in .the non-Communist countries today."—Professor Hans Kohn. 
"It is a phenomenon nowadays when a symposium lives up to its name and really is a conversational feast. Waldemar Gurian gathered a group of experts on Russia smd Eastern Europe and has edited their papers. The volume will give the reader sound and clear views on the development of the regime since 1917, on the difference between thought control under the Czars and Stalin, on Soviet policies in Eastern Europe, on the Soviet sj-stem of terrorism, and on religion in Russia since 1940."—America. 
EUROPE BETWEEN DEMOCRACY AND ANARCHY Ferdinand A. Hermens $4.00 
Europe's energies are stymied by constitutional difficulties. Professor Hermens holds. What he explains in this book has often been in the news in recent years. 
When, in France, Prime Minister Pleven chose to have his cabinet fall rather than abandon the attempt to bring about electoral reform, he addressed the deputies in the National Assembly in terms strikingly similar to what Professor Hermens says in his two chapters on France. 
When, in the fall of 1948, the Parliamentary Coimcil met in Bonn to draft the new German constitution, its chairman, Adenauer, now the Federal Chancellor, was so much impressed by lectures given during the preceding semester by Professor Hermens at the University of Bonn that he had them printed and distributed to all of the members of the assembly over which he presided. 
"With its extremely well-documented analysis pointing to P.R. as the chief institutional handicap to the stability of democratic government, Europe Between Democracy and Anarchy should at last destroy the many fallacies in which even seasoned observers of the European scene have persistied to this day. I consider Dr. Hermens' work one of the most useful books that has been published since the Second World War."—Professor 
Joseph Dunner, Chairman of the Dept. of Political Science, Grinell College. 
"Professor Hermens' book is of great value to students of modern European history, comparative government, political parties, legislative assemblies, and recent political theor>-. Through a wealth of information and analysis not elsewhere available, he docu­ments the importance of electoral systems in the democratic process."—Professor Franklin 
L. Burdette, Department of Government and Politics, University of Maryland. 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS Notre Dame, Indiana 
November-December, 1951 IS 
BuflFalo 
The Autumn season and the natural interest in 

MWVil^ GLUBS 
the sport of football, particularly ND football, 
— -~ i:' 
among the Alumni has had its effect upon the 
Aurora 
Following arc a few notes pertaining to the 
Noire Dame Club of Aurora which pulled out 
of the Fox Valley Club. We cover Aurora and 
a radius of about 15 miles. We have 25 active 
members, and have instituted a scholarsh-p plan 
whereby we hope to send a boy to i\otTc Dame 
each year. 
In our first project wc gave away four tickets 
to the SMU game and $50. The winner was 
Jerry Su'anson—2'/i-wcck-old baby, son of Henry, 
a convert. About ^WO was added to the scholar­
ship fund. This will increase annually. 
A Christmas party is being planned for mem­bers, wives and friends. 
A yearly golf outing is held at the Crv'stal 
Lake Country Club where the Aurora Club is in­
vited annually by the Cr^-stal Lake gang. 
Officers of the Club were elected and the 
results arc: 
- President—Bill Chawgo. Vice-President—Dick Reedy. Secretary*—^Bob RoM-bottom. Treasurer—Bob Tbuinm. 
There is a new club in existence under the Notre Dame Alumni Associati::n. A group of alumni around Aurora, Illinois, have withdrawn from the Fox Valley Club and formed their own organization. From the first reports of their activities, and from the names of the members, it is evident that they will constitute anotlicr successful addition to the many clubs now in existence. To all the members of the Notre Dame Club of Aurora, congratulations and good luck.—Editors. 
Baltimore 
The Notre Dame Club of Baltimore celebrated the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the Na\-y-Notrc Dame football series on November 2-3. After the 1948 and 1949 star:s we dedded to enter the race for a third time in 1951 and threw a Rally and Cocktail Party in the ballroom of the Hotel Emerson. 
The w*eather was against us on Friday night and as a result the ballroom wasn't as full as it 
had been in the past, but the several hundred who were there had a big time. The same pro­gram was followed as before: moWes, speaking and dancing. Eleven halves of refreshments ^verc consimied as were 100 cans ot potato chips and pretzels. 
Participating in the speaking program were: Rev. Robert J. Shcchan, C.S.C, '21, representing Father Ca\-anaugb; Frank Leahy; Bob Williams, 
, now with the Chicago Bears; Commander Joseph Dougherty, U.S,N. from the Naval Academy, and , Captain Arthur F. Spring, U.S.N., presently with the office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Captain Spring scored the first touchdown against Notre Dame while playing on the Nav-y team in 1927— the first game of the scries. TTie Captain came over at our imitation and brought bis ^vife and 
son to the Rally. 
The ^fayor of Baltimore, Thomas D*Alesandro, Jr., Welcomed the croivd and accepted his hon­orary membership in the local Club. Our Mayor has never missed one of our public functions since the Club was organized in 1946. 
Acting as Master of Ceremonies was our own Hugh Bums, '39. To say he was terrific would be to insult the man—words have not been coined to express the hit that he made in nm­nmg the show. We are still hearing about his job from the public who listened in over WCBM which broadcast the program for an hour. 
We had to break the speaking program in two parts since Frank Leahy was not on deck at the appointed hour and was written off as not com­ing. He showed up an hour later, after we ivent off the air, having been delayed en route from another hotel. 
Bob AVilliams flew from Chicago to Washington and had a car waiting for him at the airport to bring him to Baltimore. The weather held up both plane and car, but he made it by 10:20 p,in. and went on just ahead of Frank. Their appearance gave the Rally a second climax that saved the night. 
Just before the Leahy-Williams entrance, word came up front that "Martin Kane" was in the house. Bill Gargan stood up and took a bow and immediately was flooded with autograph seek­ers. This was a surprise that was totally im­expcctcd. 
Fortunately the weather cleared up for the game but the teams still played in a sea of mud. After the game ivas over, 700 people found their way again to the Emerson ballroom for what has come to be a traditional party— the Baltimore Club's Post-game Cocktail Party. There, from 5 to 8, old friends found one an­other and new friends were made. 
All in all the weekend was a great success! Several Club members helped to make it so—to them go laurel wreaths. They were: Rally Chair­man, Jim Mtirray; Cocktail Party Chairman, Frank AVhite; Decorations Chairman, Dan SuUi­y^m; Reception Chairman, Frank O'Connell; and Reser\'ations Chairman, Bill Hartman and Pub­licity Chairman, Hal ^Villiams. No small thanks go to our President, Gil Prendergast, who was in there pitching every minule. 

^M^^^M^^^^MA^AM^^^^k^^^^M^^VW^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^f^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^Wi^^^^V^'^^^^WV 
The new Aurora Club has started off with a bang. Pictured above are some of the mcmbcis present for the commencement of their drive to inaugurate a scholarship fund: (Left to r^ht) Bob Reams, Bob Thumm, Dick Reedy, Bob Rowhottom, Paul Oductt­schlager, Dan Waeg:ner, Biil Chawgo and John Walsh. 
activities of our Buffalo Club. On September 11, 
John B- Kanalcy of New York City, ardent 
worker for the National Foundation, visited the 
city and a Foundation Regional Luncheon Meeting 
was organized by our Local Foundation Director, 
Bcmie Bird, while luncheon was attended very 
well by all Club Officers, Directors and members 
here in Buffalo. The place was the Sheraton 
Hotel, and a very factual and inspiring resume of 
current Foundation activities and results- was 
given by Mr. Kanalcy, which, no doubt, inspired 
our efforts in this area. 
The Second Annual Golf Outing was held at Brookfield Country Club, a few miles outside of Buffalo, under the Chairmanship of Maury Quinn. In spite of threatening weather in the earlier part of the day, it developed into a happy affair with a delicious roast bcei dinner and a pleasant evening. *Bu5* Pfiel walked away with the coveted 19ih Hole Award and, strangely enough. Chairman Quinn copped the ND Golf Trophy* 
The Fall season has also ^vitnesscd the resump­
tion of the Club's monthly meetings at the 
Sheraton Hotel, on the third Monday during 
which great social and money-raising ideas are 
being developed for the coming year. Tony Brick, 
our Vice-President, has been appointed Chairman 
of the forthcoming .Annual Communion Breakfast 
for December, '51. 
Central New York 
During tlic past summer, the Central New York alumni got together for two outings. The first was the annual Golf Outing, held at the Cortland Country Club in Cortland, N. Y. In spite of threatening weather, the largest crowd in the history of this affair turned out for golf and dinner. President Ed Kcnefake presided at a business meeting which follo^v-ed dinner. Through the efforts of Justin Corcoran,, who is a director of the country club, the outing was a great success. 
On September 6, the alumni, students and prospective students gathered at the Ca\'alry Club for the third annual Student-Off. Phil Kclley, who carried the ball for the students, did a great job in arranging the program. The students suc­cessfully, and almost effortlessly, retained the Softball trophy for the coming year, by trouncing the spirited, but aging, alumni. 
The winter program calls for the Communion Breakfast to be held on Sunday, December 9. Plans are also being laid for CTniversal Notre Dame night, in the spring, as well as another meeting at which the fihn for the current foot­ball season will be shown. 
Chicago 
A meeting of officers and board members of the Chicago club ran late into the night of September 10. This gathering will serve as well as any to underline the efforts and energy ex­pended by these club officials to put on an at­tractive program for the dub members and to make the club a live and useful organization bene­fiting not only Notre Dame men living in the Chicago area but the University itself. 
As a "test case" let's consider this meeting for a bit, to illustrate the hard work being done— the work which must be done—to keep the club successful. The meeting was kicked off by presi­dent AI Stepan at 5:40 p.m. From then until 10 p.m., right through dinner, all present con­centrated in a very serious manner on the prob­lems of the club. Descr\'cd credit was first paid to John Coyle for the very attractive and rewarding program he put on the night on Sep­tember 5 as chairman of the "Fathers and Sons" reception, st^ed for the ingoing freshmen of the Chicago area and their Dads. Some 67 of the future ND men and 45 of their fathers were present. Dean McCarthy of the University and Father John J. Murphy, C.S.C, v-p in charge of ND public relations, gave inspiring talks. Your correspondent (Joe McCabe) acted as toastmaster. The event was the first of its kind, and was notably worth repeating. It has been decided that it will be an annual affair. 
In Dan Gibbs' absence, a report was read from 
him as chairman of the annual golf outing. About 300 attended—half of them golfers, the r^st for the dinner—^and the outing ^vas a great success. —financially as well as socially for more than $200 profit was netted—a rare thing indeed. 

John Montague, honorary president and chair­man of the annual Chicago alumnus directory then reported. As a necessary preliminary to issuing the directory, return-mailer postcards were sent out to the 2200 members of the club. The return on this mailing was phenomenal. More than 60 per cent have filed returns at this writ­ing—more than twice as high as returns on any other such directory compiled by any other college group in this city. This is an expensive proposi­tion, but the club believes it worthwhile. 
Fred Bccklcnberg gave a final report on Uni­versal ND night.;» This report ^was delayed be­cause of circumstances beyond Frwl's control. All concurred in commending Fred ag:bn on his hard work and thorough preparations -i>n this event. A long discussion followed as thdse present tried to formulate plans which would'-'cnable the next year's chairman tp avoid some of' the difficulties which made Fred's task so trying. 
Bob Eder, as chairman of the forthcoming foot­ball smoker, then outlined his plans and prepara­tions. Another long and intelligent discussion followed, with 100 per cent participation by those present. A thorough review of last year's smoker, ol which Eder was also chairman, and a com­parison with like affairs on the west coast—vol­unteered by A- C. Stephan—and in New Orleans —contributed by AI Stepan—resulted in a complete renovation of plans. At the suggestion of Terry Dillon, Jim O'Keefe and Bill Rellly, the affair will be made into a football dance, with perhaps one or two speakers and a short film to supply the football atmosphere. By the time this is being read, the affair may be over—but the work will go on. 
The success of this year's project will be used as a model for the 1952 event, and ideas and omissions noted will be brought forth as a source of improvement for the affair to follow. 
This is only a brief synopsis of the many items discussed and contributions offered by those who attended the meeting of September 10. I offer it in the hope that club members will appreciate more thoroughly the amount of work done by their officers and board members, and respond in return by more enthusiastic attendance at club affairs. 
More of this In the next issue—meanwhile, sec you at the football dance! 
I neglected to name all those present—this is the list from memory, with apologies to those omitted—Al Stepao, Luke Heman, Ed Delana, Ben Bmkowski, Fred Becklenberg, John Coyle, Terry Dillon, Ray Durst, Bob Eder, Jim Martin, John lifootague, Jim O'Kecte, Jay Reynolds, BUI Riley, A. C. Stephan, Jack Woods, Emmett AVrigbt, and— 
Yours sincerely, Joe McClabe 

Cineinnafi 
We had one of our most enjoyable and suc­cessful meetings in recent years on October 16. The club succeeded in obtaining Mr. Waite Hoyt, former New York Yankee pitching star and cur­rently the local announcer for the Cincinnati Reds baseball games, as our guest speaker. In addition, we had a last-minute surprise visit from Fr. Hesburgfa who was in the city for the Na­tional C. Y. O. convention. We are all gratified that Fr. Hcsburgh took the time to visit the club and to bnng u* up to date, first hand, on the University. 
Plans for our Sixth Annual Scholarship Ball are practically final as of this writing. The dance this year is to be held on Friday, December 28, at the Hotel Netherland Plaza. This year's Chair­man is Bill Grafe who is being assisted by John Fead, Bob McCafferty, Bob Leonard, Ed Mers­man, Bert Schlocmer, Frank Peluso, Dr. Ed Glascr and Jim Burke. We arc all hoping for another big success this year. All of the net proceeds of the Scholarship Ball go to our Schol­arship Fund and we are beginning to see some very satisfying results. We now have two boys from the Cincinnati area, Don Crowley and Bi^ Fleming, at the University as a result of our efforts in regard to the Scholarship "Fund. 
Although the football season wasn't perfect, we want to congratulate Coach Leahy and the. team and to let them know we, here in Cincinnati, are, as ttsual, solidly behind them. 
November-December, 1931 
Cleveland 

Many thanks to Chairman Bob Stack for his highly successful handling of two tickets to the ND-MSC game plus $100 for the benefit of our scholarship fund. H. J. Kress was awarded this year's tickets to the game. Incidentally, people will line- up next year to get their tickets from Frank Naughton. He sold last year's successful ticket a^ well as this year's. Sarge Raleigh sold the most books of tickets—27. Thanks to you, Sarge, as well as to all our Alumni here. The scholarship fund is $1200 richer. 
There were free refreshments and pretzels at 

Chuck Rohr's during the Na\T-ND game for the 
Alumni after which the drawing was held. 
December 9, Sunday, is the day of the annual 

Communion Breakfast for the alumni and their 
families to be held at the Cathedral at 9:00 with 
breakfast at the Allerton at 10:15. Ray T. MUler 
promises a good speaker and another well-planned 
affair. Ray wants to stress the fact that this is 
a family affair so let's all turn out for it. 
Plans arc progressing for our Christmas Dance 

witli co-chainncn, Sarge Raleigh and John Collins, 
already signing up the Grand Ballrcwm at the 
Statlcr. If this dance follows the pattern of the 
previous years, another success is assured. 
The Club welcomes Father Baydik to Cleveland. 

Joe Shea takes over as resident manager of the 
Statler in New York City, January I. Thanks, 
Joe, for the many favors ^ve received from you as 
resident manager of the Statler here in town. 
Columbus 
Mr. John N. Cackley, Jr. and Mr. Jim Frick, both from the University, attended the Club's October meeting to discuss the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund. They showed the sound movies depicting campus life which were shown before the televised 1950 Na\*y-Notre Dame foot­ball game. 
Follo^ving the movies, John Fontana was named cliainnan of the Notre Dame Foundation in the Columbus area. He succeeds Ed Cantwell who has done a fine job in this position during his tenure of office. 
New members were introduced to the Club and 

were given a hearty welcome. They are Carl 
Eifert, Joseph L. Pert, and Edward Faust. 
President Joe Rj'an announced the appointment of John Igoe as alumnus-in-charge of the arrange­ments for the Notre Dame Universal Communion Sunday to be held this year on December 9. 
The alumni of this area were grieved to hear 

of the death of their fello%v alumnus, Francis H. Strohm, of Delaware, Ohio. They have arranged for a Mass to be offered for him. 
Dallas 
The evening of October 11 the Notre Dame group left on the special cars on the Notre Dame-SMU special train, including the following club members: Mr. and Mrs. Ed Haggar, the Joe Hassan^ the Janes W. Simmaan and dau^ 
ter, Mr. and Mrs. Walter L. Fleming, Jr., Jim 
Crow and Bernard J. McNed. 
Others of, the club who came by some other 

means of transportation were Uie toUamag 
couples: the Frank P. €>awlejs, Fcfis Daamt 
Jim Haggars, John F. GOes, Jr., Raymmd A. 
McGarry^ James P. Swifts and daughter, James 
J. Sheas along with John F. Giles, III, ^thu r 
T. Simpson, Jolm H. Bmgan, Jr., Arthur HO^KS and Piit Shea. 
Everyone bad a good time on the train, which arrived in Chicago at 2 o'clock Friday afternoon. Frcmi the train we went to the Notre Dame Club of Dallas suite at the Stevcxa Hotel where a cocktail party was gi>-en for all the members and their friends. The Special entrained at 2 o'clock Saturday morning for South Bend, arriv­ing on the siding for that day and immediately after the game those on the train returned to Dallas. Everyone agreed they had a wonderiul time and it was good to be back on Notre Dame soil. 
The next big function for the Notre Dame Club of Dallas will be the anmial Christmas Dance. Charles B. Lohr, '42, is in charge of arrangements and will let us know specific de­tails at a later date. 
Twenty-two attended the October 3 ' luncheon which was followed by the *'Ff)otball Highh'ghts of 1950." 
Doyfon 
The Notre Dame Alumni. Club of Dayton just 

lost a very gofxl member and representative Notre 
Dame man la Robert F. Raney, who has served 
the club for the last tu-o years as secretary. He 
was in the class of 1948. 
Bob died very suddenly of polio. He was 

stricken with what was believed the, fiu, and on 
the following day he was removed to the hospital. Three days later he passed 4way, Sept. 16, at I0:3G a.m. Sunday. Survi^-ors"- include ha wife, Ruth; a daughter, Carol Ann.'' Bob was only 27. Any and all prayers will be greatly appreciated. 
CLUB ACnVITIES 
December, 1951—Annual Dinner Dance. 
January, 1952—Monthly Smoker. 
Fd)ruary, 1952—Monthly Smoker. Would like to 

have prominent Notre Dame speaker, any sug­
gestions? 
March, 1952—Communion Breakfast. 
April, 1952—Universal Notre Dame Night, Elec­

tions, etc. 
The Notre Dame Club of this area also pro­cured station and found a sponsor for the local broadcast of Notre Dame Football games during this coming season. 
Dearborn 
The deadline of this issue is too early to report the successfulness of our second annual Feather Party Nov. 14, at the K. of C. Club House. This is the club's one -project to raise funds for the Scholarship Fund. : 
Among those at the head table at the Baltnnore dub's pre-Navy game llaOf, Nor. 2 at the Emeison Hotel, were (left to right): Rev. Robert J. Shedian, CLS.C; Hi^h Boms; Capt. Arthur F. Spring, USN, (who made the first touchdown in the first game widi Xavy); "Gil" Prendergast, Club President; Cdr. Joseph Voagherty, USN, Naval Academy; and Franklyn C Hochreiter. (Edwin H. Peritins Photo) 
Club notes . . . Tiiamas Patrick Dore, '49, of ND golf fame ^vas honored at a party on Oct. 29; two days prior to his call to active duty in the Na\-al Aviation Cadet program at Pcnsacola, Florida . -. Gerry Sarb is the father of three boys, the latest being named Tliomas Patrick after the above T. P. Dorc. 
Denver 

The regular monthly meeting of the Denver Notre Dame Club was held September 30ih at the Lcydcn-Chiles-Wickcrsham Post No. 1 of the American Legion. A dinner preceded the meet­ing held in the dining hall. 
The next meeting of the club uill be held No­vember 15 at the Lcydcn-Chilcs-Wickcrsham Post of the American Legion. A dinner will be held for club members before the meeting. A color sound film on Mexico and Guatemala will be shown to club members by a Denver Travel Agcnc>'. Jim Hanlon, Chairman of the Football Train Committee announced that a special Foot­ball train will be run to the Southern California No:re Dame football game December 1 at Los Angeles. The special train is being sponsored by the club in cooperation w-iih • the Sante Fe Rail­road. Tom Gargan, Club Sccrctar>', has ob­tained statements from the printers for club dues. It is planned to have statements of dues mailed to each club member during the first part of November. 
Bob Flynn, Club President, will discuss possi­bility of a Christmas dance for club members and wiviis at the next meeting. 
Fort Woyne 
The Fort AVaync Notre Dame C.ub held i:s annual election of club officers on September 26 with the following results: 
President: Roy E. Grimmer, Jr., '45. Vicc-Prcs.: Francis P. McCarthy, '28. Secretary: Robert E. O'Reilly, M3. Treasurer: Robert E. Kearney, '48. 

Greoter Miami 
The August meeting of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Greater Miami was held at Smitli Brothers Restaurant. For the edification of those i*ho do not yet know, the Club meets on the last Thursday of each month, for the present, at the above restaurant, 203 North West 36th St., Miami, Florida. 
The Club's entire membership wishes to extend their deepest sympathy to the Probst family on the passing of I. I. Probst's dad. It was God's uill and nicrcj* that BJ tvas taken from this world as if he had stepped into a Heaven-borne plane and taken a seat for his trip—for that was the way he left—he had taken a scat in his cliair in the liring room of his home and had quietly departed. May God rest his soul. 
Bill Burgfaart, formerly of Fort Lauderdale, recently moved to ?b{iami and is affiliated %v'ifh Station \VMIE. This was Bill's first meeting. 
W. D. Rowlands pens a message that he in­tends to return to the City on Sept. 18. That is good acws to all the boys for he has been sorely missed. 
Paris Cowart will appear in the Greater Miami Ci\ic Theatre production "Two Blind Mice" as Senator Knieger. 
Attending alumni at the September meeting welcomed back Walter Rowlands, Chairman of the Foundation Committee and Board of Directors. \V. D. has been recuperating from a back injur>-. 
EXTRA! The impossible has happened and the occasion was viewed with mbced emotions. Many struggled to hold back tears and others sobbed unashamedly. A few voiced their amazement with­out restriction in the choice of words. The bombshell landing in the ranks of the usually unimpressed Micks of Miami is—George Meister came to the meeting. Handujafa! 
The club voted to purcliasc six volumes of 

•'TTie Key to Peace'* by Garcnce E. Manton, Dean of the College of Law of the University, and the club will then donate one volume each to Barry College, the University of Miami and to the Miami Public Librarv*. 
A serious (to them) oversight appeared in tlie last issue of the ALUMNUS wherein it was stated that Kelly's ball club defeated the CHAM­PIONS. Actually, it was just the revcrrc. 
Three football Broadcast Parties fiavc been ar­

Present at the Cincinnati Club's October mectiiig, were (left to right): Bill Grafc, Vice-President; Howard Rohan, President; Fr. T. M. Hcsburgh, CS.C, Executive Vice-Presi­dent of the University; and, Jack Fauret, Treasurer. 
•^^W^/W>VSA/WNA/>^^S^«V^^^'%^^^V^^«/W^^^/^^^^^^^^#M^^^^^^^^»V^^>V^^^^V^^^»^^^^^^^^^«^^^N^/V^^/VS^^V^/«/V 
ranged for the coming season. The first will be held at Fred Piowat>**s home oa October 27 (Purdue), the second at Walter Rowland's home on November 10 (Michigan State) and the third at Paris Cowart's on December 1 (Southern Cal.) 
A gala weekend got off lo a good s art with the October club meeting at Smith's, followed by the Broadcast party of the ND-Purdue game at the lovely home of Fred and Laddie Piowaty. 
F. X. Jimmy 0*Bricn, '26, is a candidate for the City Commission. Ed Kelly sent a message that he has a new daughter, born on October 25. Waller Rowlands spoke briefly on the Notre Dame-SMU game. He, Dan Rowlands, Don Da\i5, Bob Cole, Henry Frankcl and Fans Cowart flew to South Bend to witness the contest. 
The Michigan State-ND Broadcast Party will 

be at the home of George and Amelia Coury 
instead of the Rowlands, as originally scheduled, 
due to the poor health of Irene Rowlands to 
whom we %vish a speedy recovery. 
.Approximately 25 ND men, wives and friends 

of the University attended the ND-Purdue broad­
cast party at the Piowaty's home. This affair 
was one of the most enjoyable occasions of this 
nature held in some time. 
One of the most important affairs of the year 

will be held on December 9 at St. Patrick's on 
Miami Beach at 8:00 a.m. This is the AnDual 
Notre Dame Communion Breakfast. I. I. Probst 
is Chairman of the event. It is sincerely hoped 
that ALL alumni, their wives and children will 
attend this year for this is one day in which all 
Notre Dame men and their families should join 
in a common spiritual bond to ask for the bless­
ings of God upon themselves, for others, our be­
loved University-, and for Peace on Earth. 
The next meeting of the Club is the date for the election of Officers and Directors for the com­ing years of 1952 and 1953. It is an important meeting for the adv'ancement and growth of the Alumni Club in Miami. Your attendance and participation in the election will be sincerely appreciated at the November meeting on Novem­ber 29, at 6:00 p.m. at Smith Brothers Restau­rant, 203 North West 36th St., Miami, Florida. 
Green Bay 
Wallace P. Christian, '44, was married on 

June 30, 1951 to Miss Rosemary Martin, sister of 
Pat Martin, '48, in Green Bay at the Church 
of the Annunciation. 
The Green Bay club mourns the death of one of its members, Edmund J. Avery, '09, who died after a short illness on October 26, 1951. The Notre Dame men from the area met in a body and recited the rosary for him on Saturday, October 24. and ten members of the club were 
honorary pallbearers at his funeral on Monday morning. 
On Tuesday, October 30, the Club was honored 

to have as its guests at a dinner meeting held 
in the South Room of the Beaumont Hotel, 
James E. Armstrong, Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association, and Grover Miller, the Foun­dation's Governor from Wisconsin. Even though relatively short notice of their coming was re­ceived, over fifty per cent of the club members from this area attended. Ever>-onc certainly was glad lo see Jim and hear first hand what is doing at the University. After his interesting talk he answered many questions raised by mem­bcrs of the club. 
The club is planning a television-radio party for Saturady, the first of December at Pat Mar­tin's home for the ND-Soutlicrn Cal game. 
Plans for attending Mass and receiving com­munion in a body at one of the local churches on the ninth of December are being made. A breakfast at the Beaumont Hotel will follow the services. In past years almost all of the alumni in ihc area were present and the officers feel that this year's gathering will not be an exception. 
Houston 
On Saturday afternoon, October 13, the Hous­ton Notre Dame Club gathered in a private room of a local restaurant for lunch and a football game. The "football game" we speak of was the broadcasting of the Notre Dame-SMU encounter. Being Texans, this game held forth more than the usual interest, but being ND men first, we were sorry about the loss, even if it was to a Texas team. 
A few made the trip to ^vatch the game first hand, but sdiout twenty were present for this "second hand" version, and it proved to be an interesting and enjoyable »**ay to have an in­formal get-together. 
We intend to call a regular meeting the first part of December to make future plans. (If a Notre Dame man in the Houston area reads this, and he is not on the roster, then write John Bums at Notre Dame Alumni Office, and he will inform you how to contact the club.) Until then, we will be keeping the spirit going down here in Houston. 
Kansas City 
The presentation of the Man-of-the-Year Award, a football luncheon, an all-expense trip to the S&fU game and regular weekly luncheons 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

have highlighted activities of the Kansas Cit>' alumni since the last report. 
On September 19, the Club had the ND men on the Chicago BEARS and Washington RED­SKINS as luncheon guests at the Hotel Presi­dent. Before introducing the pro football guests, the Kansas City Club's Notre Dame &fan-of­thc-Year Award was presented to Joseph R. Stew­art, Chairman of the Jackson County Red Cross, by Richard J. Bowes, club Secretary. Ernie Zalejsky of the REDSKINS, George Connor, Johnnie Lujack, Bill ^Vightkin, Bob Williams and Julie Rykovich of the BEARS were introduced and made short addresses on the subject of foot­ball in general and one another in particular. About 100 attended the luncheon. Dick SlaCtery of the Washington N^'s-Times was also a guest at the luncheon. Russ Famll obliged with pic­tures of the occasion. Ernie Mchl, Sports Editor 
of the local paper, acted as toastmastcr. Other guests at the lunch included several local sports figures who really went "all-out" in their pre­luncheon publicity efforts. 
The project for the benefit of the scliolarship fund had for its award an all-expense trip to the SMU game, October I3th. With nearly all alumni in the city participating, and many out­of-town subscribers, the project was one of the most successful in the club's history. The final awarding was held at the Plaza Bowl on October 3, and the winner was Dr. Al Nigro of Kansas City. Ed Rcardon, former club president, drew Nigro's name on the third dip into the bowl. The procedure was closely watched by Ed Ayl­ward. Bob Metder, Gene Vanden Boom, Sam Richards, Tom Reiurdon, John O'Connor, Norm Bowes and Bob Pendergast. CSiuck Frizell and Bernard Finucane arrived in time to make last-minute deposits in the box. Treasurer Dick Prczebcl counted the receipts and deposited the money late the next morning. Frugal, far-seeing Prezcbel tbtis avoided the inclusion of our re­ceipts in the ''take" of- the bandit who robbed 
the South Side Bank (adv.) early the next morn­ing. It is the considered opinion of the club*s staff that the bandit had no legal right to the receipts if he did not attend the drawing. 
The club has been holding regular weekly luncheons on Wednesdays at the Famous Restau­rant, on 12th and Baltimore, better known as *'Truman*s Comer." While the attendance could be improved, the more or less regular "custo­mers"—Ben Oakes, Tom and Ed Reardon, Joe Stewart, Dick Prezebel, Frank Toyne, Dick Bowes, Forrest Cotten and Otto Schmid—are keeping the institution alive and breathing. Once in a while they are joined by John McGrath of Sedalia, who doesn't come up often enough. More alumni in the city on business should follow John's example and "check in at the Famous." 
We have just heard a re-broadcast of the Michigan State game, and the alumni of this area have suggested that I recommend we with­draw our ambassador from the State of Michigan. 
Kentucky 
As a follow-up to the July-August issue, the winners of the essay contest between the two schools arc John F. Donnelly, Jr., from St. Xavicr High School and Lee Schaffncr of Flaget High School. Identical medals were awarded. 
The summer outing held at Rock Lake Park, Indiana, on July 28, 1951, was a joint affair with St. Xavicr High School and the ND Club of Kentucky. The event was a great success, particularly because the Club won the annual baseball game by a score of 11 to 6. Col. Frank Fehr was among the old grads present. 
Forrest Brown of St. Xavicr won the Ford Foundation Scholarship to Notre Dame. 
The annual orphans football trip tWs year was. the Notre Dame-Indiana game. Approximately 90 orphans with about 250 people from Kentucky made the trip which was enjoyed by all attending. 
The bowling league started Sept. 17 at the Broadbrook Alleys. Captains for this year's team are Larry Aubrey, Jim Carnco, Tom Bulleit and Bob Jones. 
Communion breakfast was held Sunday, Sept. 23, 1951, at St. Mary Magdalene Church. 
Roger Huter is the proud papa of a baby boy born October 12, 1951 .. . his first pros­pect for Notre Dame. 
November-Decemberj 1951 
OLD MAGAZINES? 
Brother Felix, C.S.C., class of *33, makes this little appeal: "Sister Afadelene of the Congregation of Our Lady of the Missions stationed in St. Mary's Convent, Shillong, Assom, India, requests old copies pf Catholic magazines and newspapers. She would like to start a Catholic Read­ing Room and hundreds of her Kashi Indians can read English well." 

Los Angeles 
On the night of August 2, the "Old Timers" of Notre Dame, 100 strong, held a get-together at the Nickodell Restaurant in Holly%vood. 
The reason for the occasion, as if there had to be one, was ostensibly to say "hello" and renew acquaintances with such people as Maurice "Clipper" Smith, Tom Lieb, Jimmie Fhelan, and Jess Hill, the newly appointed coach at USC. Incidentally, Jess made a terrific hit with all those present. Strictly Top Drawer in class, both as a man and as a speaker, and we all know that same "class" will be reflected in his team next fall. 
We are most sincere in our good wishes for Jimmy Phelan in his new assignment as head man of the N. Y. Yankees. 
Tom Lieb, it is understood, will make his home here in the City of the Angels. Welcome home, Tom, wc will be seeing you soon and often. 
'^Clipper" Smith claims he has to s:gn his name Maurice "Clipper" Smith, N.E.C. The 
N.E.C. meaning "Non-essential Citizen"—at least until he has a better season at Lafayette. Wc salute the "Clipper" as one of the truly Notre Dame "Greats" who has never let the University or Alumni down. Lafayette notwithstanding, he is still "tops" with ND men. 
Lots of Rockne's hoys were present and some of his most famous ones. Among those present were John Wallace, a friend of the immortal George Gipp, and who played regular end on the Four Horsemen squad. John's praise for the line coaching ability of Tom Lieb left little doubt that Tom was, and still is, one of the best in the business—as is attested by his suc­cess at Loyola—Los Angeles, Florida, and most recently at Alabama, where he carried the ball for Frank Thomas, another Rockne man. Frank is not enjoying the best of health, for which we are truly sorry, and I know all of tts will pner for liis qieedy recovery. 
Among other (Md Timers who oontribated to the success «A the cveung, not only by their own personal cqierieace %nth '"Rock"—wai "SHf Tim" MaySkam, center on the *29 squad vAo is big as ever and with the senerous touch of gnty is most dbtingiushed in his ^ipcarancc. Gk yes, Tim has b:comc quite an after dianer speaker. You should hear him. 
Other Monogram men who gave us a verbal picture of some of their own experiences were: Maaie Venc who said he liked to attend these affairs to see old friends and also to get in a pli^ or tM-o for Freddie Bliller's High Life Beer. In our organization he should even mcn.Hm it? Ed "Spike" F.nghind, of track fame, along with Gene Kennedy of the famous old "Victory Five," took their turns on the floor and ackled many laughs and incidentally brightened many mem­ories for a lot of us. 
Rex Ellis and Bob Kcilcy, of basketball fame. alonjT with Akx Sbdiogf, tackle on the MO squad, took bows with very appropriate and timely remarks. Stan Gray, Joe Pabacr, "Jadgc" Cailierry and Vcm *^e^' Mduurd also made their presence known. 
Harry AcqoardH of Loyola, Los Angeles, subbed for Jordoa Olivar who was scrimmaging with Virus XY Z and could not be present. Harry really handed us some "knee slappcrs." If the Loyola Varsity is as versatile on the field as Acquarelli is bdiind a dinner table, this will be a terrific year for the Lions of Loyola. 
Leo Ward was his usual modest self and claimed he just happened to drop in and said, that even though he wasn't an *OId Timer' he enjoyed associating with them. Now Leo! The inimitable Joe Scott, in spite of hu ap­proaching 87th birthday, was ne\-er in better voice or higher spirits. What a man! "Do^' White of legendary fame and one of our old "lifers" proved definitely that ''The Spirit" even went to St. Edward's minims. 
Charlie Eib, of California "Wonder Team" fame, joined in whole-heartedly with the occa­sion and left a tid-bit for all of us- to muU over, namely: "If it doesn't hurt to lose, then you don't deserve to win." Yea! and Yea! ^[ain. 
Last but not least of those present were the members of the press—Sid Ziff of the Mirror and Chuck Johnson of the 1 . A. Tidings.. The press is always welcome, as is their public praise and criticisms, as we gain from both. 
The hardest working of all those present was the Club President, Ben Alexander. During his football days as ccn er on the '30 squad he wras known as a "team" player and this same 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^M^^^t^^MM^^MM^MAAMM^^AAMAMMMMMMAA^MAMMMMMMMAMM^MM^MAMMAM^^A^^AMM 
A part of the large group of Alumni and friends wlw greeted Foundation Representatives John N. CacUcy and James Frick, on a recent trip to Cohimbns to dncuss the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund with that active Aliunni-Foundation area. 
The Fox River Valley Notre Dame Club held their Family Picnic in August under the chairmanship of Jim Siddall and Fred Heinritz. From the looks of this report, the Fox Valley Club will continue for a long time. It looks, however, like there's a Wisconsin rooter sitting second in the first row. (Avenue Photographers Photo) 
spirit is manifest by his actiWiics iviih the local XD Club. Ben did a mar\*clous job at MC-ing the entire affair and was 100 per cent rerponsiblc for one of the most successful and enjoyable evenings the w-riter has had the p. ivilcge of attending. And that has been all of them. 
Also present as alwa>-s were Tom Ashe, Chariie Gass, Gene Calhoun, Roland Gaupcl, Baden Powell and many others; incidentally Baden Powell is do'ms a su-cll job for Fa:hcr Peyton's Family Theatre. Y. s, it was quite an ci'cning. 
Our next big event will bz a Rockne-Jcncs Memorial dinner scheduled for November 14. This is the 25th anniversary of tlie first meeting betwen ND and SC; and in pax-in-? our respects to those two football greats, Rorkne and Jones, we are also honoring tlic first Trojan team to meet the Irish. 
Jeff Cravath, SC's cx-coach who captained tlie SC 1926 team will again lead his teammates in a friendly meeting with their Notre Dame friends. Jcif, as well, >rill tcII us a fevv in­timate stories about Howard Jones. Tom Lieb, who probably knew Rock better than any other ND man out here, will take us behind ihc scenes and talk about Rockne, the Man and Coach. Then, too, we will show films of the 1931 ND-SC game; and through the efforts of Lou Benudi wc will show some sound films of Rock talking to his bo>-5. 
Maxk KcUey, a local sports figure and motion picture executive, who was instrumental in bring­ing ND and SC together back in 1926, will tell us the "how and why" of that first game. George MmTihy of screen and radio fame will emcee the affair for the expected 400 guKts. 
The Trojans* "Man of Dcitinv,*' Jess Hill, and his present coaching staff will be on hand to pay tribute to RcxJcnc and Jones and the splendid relationship between our two schools. Jess is a wonderful man, friend and leader, and we all hope his team js undefeated until De c 1. 
Two other sports figures who knew Rock as a player and later as a coach will be there as unofficial representatives of their alma mater— Army. Brig. Gen. Ludson D. Worsham, USA (Ret.), was Director of Athletics at "The Point" when Rockne and Dorais taught the Cadets a thing or two about the forward pass, and Capt. James C. Waddell, USA (Ret.), who played center for Army against ND in Rock's days, and who is local prcxy of Army's Alumni Asso­ciation, will be glad hainded by both ND and SC men - in attendance. 
Working on the Rocknc-Jones dinner with Baden Fowdl, chairman, are John Wallace and Art Parisicn, the only two local club members who played against SC in that first game, and Tim Mo>-nlhan, Spike England, Judge Caiberry, Bill Fulton, Ed Mehren, Jack Mahoney, John Alexander, Jerry Conway, Gene Calhoun, Ed McArdle, Leo Ward, Jim Bacon, Ed Tobin, Ben Sheerin, Charlie Murphy, Joe Kfansfield, and Bill Heam. 
Father Pat Peyton, C.S.C., '37, producer of Family Theatre's radio show heard on the Mu­tual network each Wednesday night, has had a script written especially for broadcast that night. Nov. 14, about Rockne, The Man. Pat O'Brien, of course, will again play the part of Rock. The program is directed by Joe Kfansfield, '36. Dick Stenger, '43, and Cally Curtis wrote the script. 
The next big attraction is the Rally to be held at the Biltmore Hotel the night before the SC game. It is expected that this affair will even surpass the one held in 1948 which was a terrific success. 
Judge Carberry is engineering the Rally with the help of Vem Rickard, Mike Corcoran, Gene Calhoun, and another dozen or so to be named. The De c 1 game will probably be the first chance ND has had to hit an unbeaten SC team in many a year, so we expect an overflow crowd. All visiting Alumni, their wives, and friends arc specifically invited to join us the night of Nov. 30 at the Biltmore. Gene Calhoun is in chaise of tickets and can be reached through Local Loan Co., 7th and Spring, Los Angeles. 
Our annual Communion Breakfast will be held De c 9 at St. Ambrose Church. Fairfax at Fouu­
(Editor's Note: Out there where things are colossal and city limits counties apart, the ALUAINUS hopes you will for^vc the two or three stupendous errors that con** ccntrated on Los Angeles in the last issue. First was listing Club news under Louisi­ana (L.A. tc LA. on our copy, if you want a warning from the experience). The second major mistake was the caption which called "Clipper" Smith, **Buck" Shau*. (Honest, Mai^e, I know belter hut I missed the caption in the proof entirely.) And of course, some Club events have been timed so that the ALUMNUS, like this issue and the Old Timers Party, comes out too late to boost, too early to report. May the advent of Father Cavanaugh on Universal Notre Dame Night bring peace to a troubled land. And to us. J.E.A.) 

tain, in Hollywood, at 9:15 Mass. Bob Kelley, chairman, has invited Bishop Timothy Manning of the Archdiocese and John J. Burke, President of the Board of Education in L.A. as the prindpal speakers. More than 200 are expected. 
The early deadline of this issue comes before our three big events of Noi*embcr and December so credit, unfortunately, cannot be given to all who desen'e it. 
Ben Alexander, in behalf of the Atonogram Club, presented a scroll to the father of Orv Mohler, the great Trojan Ail-American who was killed in a plane accident two years ago return­ing to his Army post after attending the ND-SC game. The banquet, honoring the memory of Mohler, was sponsored by the Pasadena Sports­men's club and was held ^t e in October. Ben was the principal speaker. 
For the benefit of the Los Angeles club mem­bers who failed to find anything about our activi­ties in the Sept.*Oct. issue, >-ou can find the article listed under "Louisiana." The ALUMNUS decided to move our cit>' limits to take in the whole state of Louisiana. 
Mid-Hudson Volley 
Our first fall meeting was held in Poughkeepsie, 

N. Y., at the Knights of Columbus Hall. Tom Walker, of Nev^iiurgh, deserves high praise for contacting the Newburgh men and seeing to it that they came to our meeting, which was a business session. 
Our second meeting was held at the Pine Tree Jmi and was a combination dinner and business meeting. At this gala affair, we again had a splendid turnout by the club members and it was easy to see this year will be a great year for the club in the Vallc>*. Ed Blake of Newburgh was in charge of arrangements for this meeting and a "well done" was extended to him . . . and to Tom Walker and Joe AfcCabe who saw that wc had a good turnout. 
Club items . . . The club lost their former President, Francis J. Sanfilippo who put our club on its feet. He has moved to the Glen Falls area where he will be working for &forton Salt Company. If there are any ND men in that area wc are certain he will organize them into a club. 
A former Kingstonian, Howie Murdock. is back at work as a "spotter" for Joe Boland on the Saturday afternoon broadcasts of the games. 
Speaking of football, one of our club members, a student at ND in 1887, saw the FIRST foot­ball game ND ever played. He also saw Rockne and Dorass swamp the Army with the forward pass way back when. His name is William Blake, of Ncuhurgh, and he has quite a few yams to ^i n about the school when it was on its way up as a football power. 
Didc McCabe, of Poughkeepsie, made that fatal le ^ not too long ago which leaves only a handful of bachelors in the club. As it looks now, our next big project will be the "auxiliary" for the club. 
The club has cut out a few projects for the coming year and work is being started on them. 
Oregon 
After several months of inactivity, during which Notre Dame Club of Oregon President Oscar Qnoidbadi has been catching his breath after being reelected to his ofBce unexpectedly, "tiie Oregon group has again, swung into action. 
DuTctors of the Or^on club met November 9 with Bin Sdunltt, Por.land's current contribution to the board of governors of the Notre Dame Foundation, to map their program for the year. 
One aim, Schmitt stressed, is to secure 100 per cent participation in the 1952 Foundation drive, regardless of the amount contributed by the individual. 
First club session of the year will be held 

Decemb:r 1, at BiO Sdimitt's offices in the Schmitt 
Steel Company, Portland, with the ND-USC game broadcast as principal feature. Although Bill will be host to the gathering, he won't be on hand at all—he's planning a dual-purpose trip to Los Angeles to see the game and his aged mother, now 88. 
Father Mkfcael J. Early, C.S.C., principal ot Columbia Preparatory School, has invited the cli& to hold its Notre Dame Communion Sunday gathering at the prep school on December 9. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Father Eariy will read the 8:30 Mass for the 
ahimni, who are also bringing their wives and 
families, and will be host later at the Conununion 
breakfast. This will mark the first visit of many 
of the N D alumni to the new site of Columbia 
Prep, now located high in the West Hills area 
of Portland, after being for many years on the 
same campus with University of Portland, the 
Holy. Cross Congregation's Oregon College. Co­
lumbia Prep is currently observing the 50.h year 
of its operation. 
Also planned for Oregon Clubbers, Quoidbach 

announces, are two "smoker" sessions in January 
and April; a special "Irish Night" at St. Mary's 
Home for Boys, near Portland, with movies and a 
"feed" for the kids being sponsored in February; the Notre Dame Night banquet and election meeting; and an after-Easier social event for alumni, wives and parents of ND students from this area. 
Bob Afolin, ivho was one of the principal plan­ners for the recent Northwest Jewelers' conven­tion held in Portland, has been teamed with Ken Kirby to handle the ND Communion Sun­day planning. 
Married at St. Thomas More church on Satur­day, November 17, were Watrcn J. Hans, *43, and Florine Elizabeth Latta. Warren is tWth the Fred Meyer organization, big Portland food store chain. 
Still talking out this way is Ed O'Meara, this year's Oregon Club secretary. He was toastmas­ter for the November 15 "Father and Son" ban­quet of Columbia Prep School—an event which had been designed as grand finale of the football season for Father EaHy's high school students. But Father Mike's Preps upset a larger rival and Gccamc the only Oregon Catholic school team to go into second round play for the state cham­pionship, so they went back to gridiron action. the night after the big feed. 
. Here's a new activity for NDcrs: Hugh Lacey, 
Jr., is serving as model for men's autumn wear 
at a "fashion meeting" of Portland's Multnomah 
Athletic Club! 
On the scholastic front: Arnold Peterschmidt, '27, has been named controller at University of Portland, and stepping up to fill Pete's old spot at U. of P. is Ed Sandstrom, '39, now acting dean of the school.' of Business Administration there. 
Traces of ND men being "lay leaders in Catho­lic Action" show out here once in a while. Pete Sandrock, '39, former Oregon club president, has been named secretary of the St. Rose parish Holy Name Society in Portland. Ed O'Meara, '40, is president of the Ascension . parish Holy Name unit in Portland and recently served as 
archdiocesan chairman of the Holy Name Society's October Rosary Rally. 
New Jersey 
Our annual Freshman Welcome Party -was held September 6, and due to the efforts of Chairman 
Gene Dean, it was a tremendous success. Ap­
proximately 200 attended including 48 Freshmen 
and their fathers. 
Assistant Dean Smith did a wonderful job ol 
describing to the students and their parents the 
life at the University. 
Our program plans for the year 1951-52 are 
progressing rapidly with the following programs 
definitely set: 
Football Rally—Oct. 15—Military Park Hotel. 
Jim McGuirk, chairman. 
Universal Communion Breakfast. Chairman, 
Ray Gnger; Vice-Chairman, Jack Regan. 
Universal Notre Dame Night. Chairman, Don 
Dugan; Vice-Chairman, Tom Greene. 
It is also our intention to have regular general 
meetings each month we do not have a scheduled 
event. 
New York 
From the many notices and very informative bulletins received from the club by the ALUM­NUS, this is the run-do^vn on the latest activities. 
The Scholarship Fund Drive to raise the $1400 tuition cost, and to award scholarships to two worthy youths next year closed on October 31 with a big get-together in the Hotel Biltmore. 
The University and the Club is grateful to all who have remembered to make their annual dona-
lion. To those of you who have not remembered, please note that the current list of donors from the Club is 50 per cent below 1950's number of donors. Contact Jim McGoIdrick for details. 
Several of your fellow members have been unselfishly devoting much time to the Club's Job Placement Program, which includes the Career Clinic, sponsored as a free public service, where 
instruction is available in the scientific approach to job-finding, to business advancement, and to general self-improvement. Sessions are every Thurs­day at 7:00 p.m.. Cathedral High School, Lexing­ton Avenue at 50th Street. Bill Hughes, '34, who attended the early sessions of the Clinic, and 
later became a prime mover in the program, bene­fited so well from the course that he has re­signed^ an executive position with Savings Bank Life Insurance Co. to go to a better job with a Mid-Western competitor. Good Luck, Bill, and many thanks. 
Word from Herb Giorgio, Retreat Chairman, tells us that the Annual Retreat will be held at the Monastery in Jamaica, Long Island, on the week-end of March 28-30, 1952. Arrive 6:00 
p.m. Friday and stay until 6:00 p.m. Sunday. The reservations are limited!! So put it on your cal­endar ^v-ell in advance to get in touch with Herb. Easter Sunday in '52 is on April 13—the retreat is two weeks before, thus you can take care of your Easter duty at the same time. Ask the fellow who has been on retreat with us—they're the biggest boosters and will give you the straight story on the \'aluc and pleasantries of mch a date. 
Jack Hoyt not only took care of a thousand and one details coaaecttd with the Golf Date-
on Augiut 28, and nude it a terrific day but hie 
also provided the best weather possib]^ and ¥> 
would4>e Ben Hogans rearranged the topography 
of beautiful Leewood Golf Club on that dajr. 
^ain and again, oor thanks to Jack for bcii^ 
the best host a golfer could ask for. * Ctartir-
Mctxgcr either dida't bring ail his chiba or he's, 
just good anyway, he waltEcd off with the low 
gross prize and was last seen heading towards 
hb car counting bills. 
Gr ^ Rice has been ^ipointed Chairman for this year's Communion Breakfast on Dccen^>er 9; and a phone call a few minutes ago obtwned the mformation that the guest speakers were saying "yes" to invitations, and we'd have the best Breakfast of all. Mark that date down also— December 9—^Notre Dame Communion Breakfast.: 
Peoria 
The Peoria Notre Dame Club held its October-meeting under the chairmansh^ of Fred Vicic­and Bob Muxpfay at the University Club. Forty-two members and guests were present to' hear Forddy Andcrsoa, basketball coach at Bradley University, gave a very interesting talk on college-sports in general and Bradley's outlook for the-coming year. 
Tom Zosky and Fcwddy were honored by the­
loca] group in recognition for what they have-
done for the University and our club, by making 
them honorary members of the Peoria Notre 
Dame Club. 
The program for the coming year was presented 
with Al Gary, Ray Wichmawi, Tom Geselbfacht 
and Ed Sndl talung charge of Communion Sun­
day. The Christmas Dance, December 22^ will: 
be at the Jefferson Hotel, and handled by Akx. 
Sknn, Dick Walsl^ Dan Hecfat and Bill Hol­
brock. Our next dinner meeting will be on 
February 12, at which the wives will be our-
guests. Pete Voiiai^c% Ray Watsoa, Bill WIDM-
backer and Bcnard Gh^ieri will be in charge. 
The committee for Universal Notre Dame Night-
will be Roy Gmtaboo, John Cannody, Elmer 
Gury and Ei^ene White. 
Bill Motsctt, city chairman of the Foundation,, 
spoke briefly on the current aims of the Foun­
dation. 
We are trying to reach all alumni in this area. Anyone who is not receiving notices of the meet­ings please contact Loois F. Crystal, 1010 Nor­wood Ave., Peoria. 
Pioneer Valley 
Editor's Note: Our apologies to the club for this belated report appearing below. It was. held back in hopes that we could prociu-e a pic­ture of Club President Jchn. F. Shea as he was presented a plaque in recognition of the popular march he and his brother, Michad, composed in undergraduate days at Notre Dame—the Victory" March. However, no picture was available from, the suggested sources. 
At the spring concert presented by the Notre-Dame Band under the club's sponsorship, Lee-Hope gave us a most enjoyable evening of musia at the John M. Greene Hall, Snuth College, Northampton. 
The committee in charge of the concert was composed of the following: Jolm F. Sbea,. Uhric: Rod, James Regan, Hcwy Padden and Jokm F. SnlKvaB, Jr., all of Holyoke; William Hvle y oF Springfield, and Habcrt Craac of Northampton. 
Of further interest to alumni is that Rev. James J. Moras, '27, is chaplain at Westover Field, Massachusetts, only a few miles fronk Holyoke. He is a frequent vuitor at the Sulli­van household. Father Moran is the rcc^ient of the Silver Star, awarded for heroism at Luzon. He is desirous of hearing from Mike O'Kccfe oT Niles, Ohio, a former mate of his on the N D boxing team. 
Pittsbergh 
On Friday, October 19, a rtgional dinner meeting of the Notre Dame Foundation was held at the Royal York. Arrangements and promotioit of this were initiated by Joe Fandl, Pennsyhnaia Governor, and Joka N. CacUey of the Fouada­tioa Staff. The latest reports on contributions to the Foundation were git«i, and all detaib about the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fnad were oplvned. The great stride forward which 
Accompanied by J. £. Armstrong, NDF Gov, Donahue spoke to Vincenncs friends at a meeting arranged by James D. McQuaid, NDF Chairman. Seated L to T. Rcae Dognaux, Gov. Donahue, Rali^ Heger of Evaaiville (m. c) Armstrong, and Leo Schnl­tcts; 2nd row, Lyle MHIer, Jim McQuaid, Rene Dognaux Jr., and Joe Riley. 
November-December, 1951 2t 
the University has accomplished was clearly out­
lined by Father Theodore M. Hcsburgh, who 
officially represented the University, and John B. 
Kanalcy, City Chairman of New York, wlio rep­
resented Frank Walker, National Foundation 
Chairman. John Cackley made a summary of all 
funds so far received, and Joe Farrcll ver>' con­
\-iocingIy presented Pcnns^'U-ania's part in past 
activity and plans yet to come. Represented at 
the dinner were western Penns>'I\-ania, \Vest Vir­
^nia, and eastern Ohio by the following: Ed 
Dean, Gene Cai-anaugh, Joe Wefarle, Mike 
O'Connor, Jade Kennedy, George Martinet, Bill 
Rockenstein, Jade Monte\*erde, Leo Vogel, Bob 
Fultoa, Judge John J. Kennedy, and Dr. Leo 
O'Donnell, Pitt5bur|;h City Chairman. FolJow­
ing the dinner, the group attended the big pre­
gamc rally also held at the Ro>-al York. 
The Pitt pre-Game Smoker held at the Royal York was well attended. There were about 150 people at one time or another but only about 70 stayed for the meal which was scr\-ed after midnight. Ed Krause was with us most of the evening and renewed his acquaintance with Pitt Track Coach Carl Olson. It would be impossible to mention all the people who attended but we did notice Judges Kennedy and Boyle, Dr. Paul Andencm from Duquesne, such stalwarts as Jim Devlin, John Gntowski, John Crimmins, Vince Burke, Gene Ccvyne, Larry and Dick OTooIe, Bill Magarrall, Jade Monte^'crde, Joe Pappa, Ed Jtafferty and Earl Brieger whose friends from Texas are still calling him to tell him the SMU score. Wc were pleased that the younger fcJIous turned out so well and hope that they will con­tinue to do so for thev should be running the dub. 

At the luncheon last Thursday Pete Flaherty passed out dgars. His **baby" was a cherished letter from the State Board of Law Examiners telling him that he had passed. Sid Baker and Cy\'idra -were redpicnts of that same good nc\**s. They tell us that it was a three for three year—or 1000 per cent batting average for the Law School graduates; where can you go from there? Congratulations, men, and if you need any help you have two Judges and eleven other attorneys with Notre Dame affiliations. 
Rochester 

The ladies have organized an auxiliary group headed by Mrs. Joseph P. Flywi and will meet six times a year. Information of these meetings may be had by calling Dorothy Connelly at GL 7598m or Mrs. Ridiard SuUi^-an at GE 5829m. 
Items . . . Didc Corcoran, '47, and Betty Campbell arc engaged. Marty Bayer is the father of Judy, and Art Ctirran, '50, has a new son. 
Vic DeSimon has been admitted to the Bar; Capt. Enunett O'Neal, M7, has been recalled to the Marine Corps; Marty Lally, '49, is being recalled to the Air Force; Joe Thden, '39, has taken a new position with the AVagc and Hour Div. of the Dept. of Labor; Bob Skipworth, newest grad of law, is now assodatcd with American Surety Co. 
The club's June 8 summer dance at Locust Hill w*as a tremendous success sodally and finan­cially. Chairman Jack Hedges is to be com­mended along with the auxiliary and student groups for stirring up much interest, the result of which was ob\-ious. It is thought that future club officers will continue to make this an an­nual affair. 
More items on dub members . . . Mr. and Mrs. Bob Beikiik are the parents of a boy, as arc Mr. and Mrs. Dave Curtin. Mr. and Sfrs. 
N. Lee Hastings also have a son as do Mr. and Mrs. John Dorsdid. Vic Yawman, Jr., is sol­diering in Paris. The club welcomed 1951 grads Eugene Myler, Jack Landry, Robert AVallacc, James Blum, Jack Curran and Francis Knopf. 
Another successful and enjoyable family picnic was held Aug. 12 at the Island Cottage Hotel. Highlight of the day was the student-alumni soft­ball game in which the "Oldsters" subdued the 'TToungsters," who displayed less energy* and more weight than the Morrison-led grads. As usual, Amie Morrison's antics and Pete Connelly's witti­cisms contributed greatly to the general good time. 
Co-chairmen Paul Pukish and NIc DeSimon de­serve a *'Thank You" for their efforts as well as student chairmen \^c Tallarida and Gus Falcone. 
Two more bo>*s were bom (one each) to club members Hugh Good, '48, and Francis X. Con­ndly, '34. Our heartiest wishes for happiness 
Notre Dame and Army met again when Dave Hayes (right), who created a football tradition at Notre Dame between 1917 and 1921, and Ehncr Oliphant (left), all-tmie Army grea^ held a friendly reunion recently. (Catholic Transcript Photo) 
and success to Mr. and Mrs. Paul Reidmaa, married Sept. 8 in St. Monica's Church. She h the former Mary Kay KIce. Donald J. Cor­bett, '28, is a candidate for Surrogate's Court Judge in Monroe County, N. Y. Gerald J. Flynn, '40, is a c:andidate for City Councilman in the City of Rochester, N. Y. Edward H. Lomber, Jr., '49, was recently appointed City Clerk of the City of Canandaigua, New York. 
Saginaw Valley 

The summer outing this year was held in Saginaw at Riverside Park with t\vent>--five mem­bers in attendance. Credit for a fine time should be given to Roger Hendrick, '41, chairman this year. Chairmanship for the summer outing seems to stay in the Hendricks family, what with brother Bill, '44, chairman the preceding two years. Rodge and Bill are in the contracting business, assodated with their father. 
The Valley is building up a friendly but closely contested coaching rivalry. Joe Flood, '48, coach at Sts. Peter and Paul, Saginaw, John Nusskeni, '49, St. James, Bay City, and Francis Curran, '46, Alpena Catholic Central. All have good records, with an unbeaten season for Catholic Central. 
Tlie dub was grieved this summer by the death of one of its best known and liked members, Joseph Mulhall of O^vosso. He was very active in church and community affairs. His untimely death was felt by all of his many friends. 
The Quarterback Club of Saginaw, which meets Monday noon during the fall at the Hotel Ban­croft, was sponsored on October 14 by the Notre Dame Club. Father Afurphy, Vice-President of the University, was guest speaker with up-to-date information of campus activities and films of the Detroit game. 
Present officers of the club arc: 
President: Paul A. Bry^bout, '29. Bay City. 
Vice-President: Harold Lappin, '32, Saginaw. 
Sccretar>'-Treas.: Vincent Boyle, '49, Bay City. 
Board of Directors are: 
Carl Doozan, '39, Saginaw; Albert Baumgarten, 

'48, Saginaw; Charles Kretschmer, '31; Saginaw; Robert Herrington, '43, Bay City; Neil Bamett, '36, Saginaw. 
Future plans call for the Communion Breakfast on December 9 at St. Andrew's of Saginaw and the aimual football banquet honoring the Valley Parochial League champions and members in January. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. James Ka\-anaugh, '38, a girl, Margaret Jean, their third. Mr. and Mrs. Frank Kirchmaa, '38, a son, Peter John, their third. Mr. and Mrs. Gene Mattheu3, '51, a girl, Jean Marie, thdr first. 
MARRIAGES 
Thomas Carroll, '41, to Virginia Bums of Saginaw at St. Xfary's Cathedral, Saginaw, on June 2. 
GcraJd Carroll, '39, to Phyllis Wenglikouski of Bay City at St. Valentine Church, Beaver, Michi­gan, on June 2. 

Accent Boyle, '49, to Maureen Kirchman of Bay City, sister of Frank Kirchman, '38, and Edward Kirchman, '42, at St. Mary's Church, Bay City, on October 6. 
• 
St. Joseph Volley 

The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley has set up a tentative date of December 12 for the Testimonial Banquet for the 1951 football team. 
As yet, we do not have any definite commit­ments on the toastmaster and prindpal speaker but our dub president. Bob Holmes, has several outstanding personages lined up. 
Listed below are the various committees for 

this banquet. General Chairman: Paul Fergus, '35. Tickets and Finance: Joe Hannan (chairman), 
'39: Bernard VoII, '17; Albert McGann, '25; \Villiam VoU, '48; Gerald Hickey, '41; Ray Ructz, '44; Frauds Messick, '30; Robert Grant, '30. 
Publidt>-: Paul NCTIUC (chairman), '42; Joe 

Doyle, '49. Pre-Banquet: Benny Sheridan (chairman), '39. Program: (co-chairmen) Karl King, '37, and 
Jerry Claeys, '37; Ed Krause, '34; Charles Calla­han, '38; Louis Chaplcau, '30; John Jordan, '34; Joe Boland, '27. 
Fcxxl and Arrangements: (co-chairmen) Dan Yoangemian, '36, and Kurt' Simon, '35; Frank 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Snilirai, '49; Karl Fulnccky, '36; William Ryan, '35; Nd m Vogel, '39; Cliarks Fetretic, '32; George King. '26; Gay McMichael, '37; Edoimd Caiattier, '49; Harry Poulin, Jr., '37; Stanley Baiky, '49. 
San Diego 

The Notre Dame Club of San Diego has been 50 active during the last tew months that I overlooked the all-important news of our Notre Dame Man of the Year for 1950. Our person­able, hard-working President, W n Day, was the unanimous choice by the Board of Directors to receive this highest honor of the year. 
Win is a charter member of the club and has been indispensable to the organization from the very beginning. He is the manager of the Local Loan Office in San Diego, and is quite active in civic affairs. His most recent contribu­tion to the dty has been in prompting an annual $10,000 Open at the San Diego Country* Club, where he is on the Board of Directors. Win was Captain of the Notre Dame Golf Team in '36, and so naturally has been burning up the local golf courses since his arrival in San Diego. All in all, Win Day is a real Notre Dame man, and we were all happy to hear that he was chosen for the award. 
A very successful club picnic was held on the last Sunday of June at Balboa Park. The horse­shoe champs were Ugo Rossi and Win Day, who took on all comers. We all had such a great time that another picnic has been planned for our next get-together on October 21. _ Al Steu-ort was the able chairman of our first picnic and Jack M<i:lareii will head the committee for the next one. Al had planned an affair that will be hard to beat, so Jack will have some­thing to shoot for. 
On August 29, we were the guests of Comdr. Geoi ^ 0*MaIIcy at the Camp Kidd Officers* Club for an enjoyable evening of dinner and bingo. The first winner was none other than George himself. Mrs. Jack McCIaren won a second prize. Howard Beilstein was the third club winner of the evening, getting a special prize for having the most keys in his pocket. His wife helped a little. 
An important business meeting was held on September 27 at "Red" DavJs*, where plans were made for the disbursement of tickets for the big game at USC this year. Club events for the next six months were also arranged. 
Schenectady 
The Schenectady Club held its annual Family Picnic Sunday, August 26, at Turners Park. A large group of alumnt and their families, as well 
as many students and their parents, attended and an enjoy^le day was had by alK 
On September 12, a large delegation of club members attended the Solemn Funeral Alass of Lt. Willian P. Finch, '49, U.S.M.C., who was killed in Korea on March 2. Two alumni scr\cd as pall bearers: Robert Eckel and Frank Linehan. Father Bernard F. McCaffery, C.S.C, was pres­ent in the sanctuary. 
The second annual Fathers* Night' Smoker was held on Monday, Oct. 22, and it was a huge: success. Many alumni and fathers were in at­tendance and heard short talks by Father Edward 
L. O'Malley. Father Bernard F. McCaffrey, C.S.C, and 'President Bill Leonard and viewed the '50 Highlights. In conjunction with the smoker, we held the awarding of two Na^y-Notre Dame tickets and expense money. This promo­tion proved to be a financial success for the club. 
In recent months some of our members have left this area: James Gibbons, Gearge Corwine now in Lynn, Mass., Bill Dwyer, with the FBI, in Baltimore, and Dr. Dan Rourke, serving as a Lt. (jg) in the Naxy. We have two additions to the club in Larry Goebler and Paul Dee, both 
on training programs at General Electric Co. Tom Howlcy, Warren Schultz, Tom McAlister and Frank Linehan were some of the alumni that cheered the Irish to victory over Na\">- at Balti­more. A testimonial dinner w*as given Father Patrick 
J. Peyton, C.S.C., of Family Rosary, by a group of Catholic laymen in the city on Oct. 30, with over 300 men present. A number of alumni scr\-ed on the committee: Frank M. Uncban, '45, was general chairman, Robert E. Eckel, *49, ^vas 
secretary' of the committee, with Dr. John Phil­lips, AVilliam Leonard, Dr. Charles E. Welsh, Dr. Vincent J. Schaefer, John J. Mechan, John J. Huether, John F. Hurler. William B. Maday, Lawrence L. Wdss, Raymond Fitzgerald, Thomas 
A. Howley, and I^iul Dee rounding out the N D men on the committee. It was quite a reimion for the Holy Cross Fathers in the area; present were: Father Peyton, Father Quinn, Father John 
J. Murphy, Father Bernard F. McCaffery, Father Albert Heinzer. 
Wc in Schenectady arc preparing for two big functions: annual Communion Breakfast and the Holiday Dance. The committees for both affairs are working very hard and it looks as if both functions will be as successful as they have been in previous years. 
South Jersey 
A football huddle was held at Kenney's Res­taurant in Camden to watch the SMU game. Football tickets were awarded as follows: 
1. All-expense paid trip for two to Navy game in Baltimore. " 2. Two tickets tor Penn game in Phila. (1952). 
3. Seller of ticket selected, two tickets for Na\-y game. 
We're happy to ^^-clcomc Matt Campanella of 

Hammonton into the club. Matt is an electrical 
engineer (1949) and at present is in the RCA 
engineering dept. in Camden. 
Plans arc going ahead for our Communion 

Breakfast and Christmas Dance in December. 
May we repeat again—any ND men in the South Jersey area who are interested in joining the club may attend any of the regular meetings held at Kenney's, in Camden, on the third Thursday evening of each month, or contact John C. Murphy, 4617 West End Ave., Mer­chantville. Phone ME-8-2019. 
Toledo 
The Notre Dame Club of Toledo has two big events coming up on its calendar of activities. The first is Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, December 9, when 100 alumni and their wives are expected to attend Mass and receive Communion in a body at Holy Rosary Cathedral, and then have breakfast at the Hillcrest Hotel. Dr. George M. Bates is chairman. 
The second big event in the making is the annual Holiday Dance. This year's affair will be held in the'Grand Ballroom of the Commodore Perry Hotel, Friday, December 28. Jimmy Rohr's orchestra Avill play. Dick Donoghue will ser\'e as general chairman. He will be assisted by Art Sudcr, Bud Malone, George Korhumel, John Scbmitz, Frank Venner, Joseph L. Ttllman and Charles Schira. Invitations have been sent to over 400 Notre Dame alumni and friends in and around Toledo. 
The Notre Dame Club's first printed directory 

was sent to members early last month. It listed 
98 dues'paying alumni, 25 dads who are associate 
members, a short history of the school, a letter 
from Father Cavanaugh, and pictures of the 
ofHcers and board members. 
Two very successful social events were held during the past eight weeks. Four bus loads of alumni and friends made the trip to Briggs Stadium in Detroit, Friday, October 5, to witness the University of Deirolt-Notrc Danie game. Bob Timmerman was chairman of this event, with assistance from Jim MaloAe. Due to careful planning and wide publicity, the trip was a money maker for the Club. 
Several weeks ago, Mrs. John R. (Ellen) Ma­lone and a group of ND wives put on a square dance for club members at The Bam. More than 50 couples attended, making the party a social, as well as a financial, success. 
During the months from September to Decem­ber, inclusive, the Club has been meeting every other Tuesday at the Elks' Club for lunch. In­teresting programs have been arranged each ses­sion. Under the general chairmanship of Bob Schramm. Some of the individual meetings have been headed up by Bill Syring and John Huriey. 
Some forty members of the Club attended a Party in the Synod Hall, November 16. Bill Maccani, program chairman, showed motion pic­tures to the group. 
Tri-City 
The Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities got the fall social • season off to a good start with their annual Stag TtA Fry oo the 14th of September. Approximately 200 members and their friends ea-joyed a wonderf nl Missusqipi catfish duuter at the Swedish Olive Singers Club in MoUnc, m . The entertainment during the - evening included a football movie, card games, et c The hard %rorit­ing Gommitter, headed by George Vaader VoMttt, deserves credit for a j<rf) well done. 
The entertaining "Moon" MnDms—Athletic Di­rector at Kansas Sute—stopped in at the K. C-Grid Club in Davenport during October. "Moon" stated he missed coaching and the personal con­tacts he used to have with the boys. 
Our club was honored by the presence of Jim Armstrong and one of his very capahle aides, Tom GuroU, at our October business meeting. Jim gave us a splendid idea of the workings of the Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund, which we agreed to support. Tom Carroll ' showed a Campus film and gave us current remarks cov­ering Notre Dame—1951. 
We still feel that we have the best ladies* auxiliary in the entire Alumni set-up. As busy as our wives are, they took time out to entcrtaiik (or torture) us at a square dance party at the Bam in Davenport one beautiful evening under the Iowa Harvest Moon. Mrs. George Vawler Vcnnet provided us with a very enjoyable eve­ning, highlighted by our picnic movies—^with Ral{ji Ehr as operator. 
Twin Cities 
A schedule of Fall activities for the club promises a good program for these next months. Events yet to come are: 
Dec. 1—Midaftcmoon TV party for the ND-Southem Cal game, with refreshments, etc. At 8 p.m., the ND basketeers play St. Thomas at the St. Paul auditorium. A bIfxJc of tickets have been reser\'ed for members and guests and may be ordered from the Business Office at St. Thomas College. 
December Christinas Dance—more details later. 
Dec. 9—Annual Communion Breakfast. This is 

for the whole family; a traditional event which 
has always been well attended. We know that 
this one will be no exception. 
Publication of a &fembcrship Roster will be distributed to club members this Fall. 
A Cana Day for married couples was held November 11, at Mcndota. It was a one-day retreat of high spiritual ^'alue conducted by Father Richard T. Doherty. 
Notre Dame Auxiliary meetings arc held every second Monday of each month. All alumni wives are invited to attend these meetings. 
Washington, D. C. 
The weekly luncheons at the Touchdown Club are resumed, after a slight disruption due to the fire. . . . Come around Tuesday at noon and enjoy a session of good food and good gab with some good fellows. . . . The new club directory, already far along the processes, will make its ap< pearance soon under the labors of Clint Watson. 
The Annual Football Award contest is now underway. . . . Cliff Letdier is directing this year's show and asks everybody's cooperation to sell tickets and more tickets. . . . The first two prizes, featuring the North Carolina ducats and hotel reservations in Chapel Hill, are an especially attractive offer. . . . Hotel space will be hard to get down there. . . . Remember that this activity is an important factor in promoting other club activities throughout the year. 
The Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., Bishop of Buffalo, and former University president, at­tended the dedication of the Archbishop John Carroll High School. . . . John Hinkel edited a special publication for the dedication in which was carried a greeting from the club members and the Holy Cross Fathers. 
Bill Jones, back from a trip to the West Coast, reports that he saw Father Robert Sweeney, C.S.C, former club chaplain, now president of Portland University, who sends everybody his best wishes. . . . Ex-prexy J. R. "^t " Gorman^ Jr., will head the Speakers Bureau for the com­ing Community Chest Campaign. . . . Matt Meride has been promoted to the rank of Lt. Col. in Uncle Sam's Air Corps. 
Rudy Anderson is now with the legal depart­
November-Decembery 1951 
mcnt of Johns Manvillc in New Jersey. . . . £ d Fcnlon is studying at the National Law 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
Law School where one of Iiis profs is Harry Bmsvert. .. . Joe Russo is working in tlic Times-Herald accounting depaitment while study­
ing at Georgetown University. . . . Good nc^vs is that Gay Haas has recovered from a recent sick­ness and will chairman the Na\y game rally. 
Charles Gainer has been appointed city chair­man for the Notre Dame Foundation. . . . Leo Mullin is Governor of tlic Foundation for the Greater Washington area. . . . Joe Gall is with the FBI in Philadelphia. . . . James S. Mitchell, former executive secretary of the National Council Catholic Men, is now Associate Director of the rcacti\-atcd USO. . . . Led by Father \^ncent 
J. McCauley, C.S.C., club cliaplain, a group of members redted the rosary for John D. Himc­baugfa, ex-ND'er, who died of a heart attack while swimming. Harry Kirk has been re-elected treasurer of the National Conference Catholic Charities. 
Western Washington 
Three members of the Notre Dame Club of "Western Washington have been active in speaking "before groups during the past months. Charles 
S. LaCugna, professor at Seattle University, has delivered many excellent addresses on the United States' foreign policy*. He is a well qualified speaker for the United Nations' and does a fine 
job in holding his audiences. Bernard Lcnoue is outstanding in Catholic Action for his activity ^%•ith the Xarbcrth Move­ment. At the present time he is Narbcrth chair­man for the state of Washington. He has given much time to an impressive speaking program as well as to news releases. Pat Goggin, secretary' of the local club, was guest speaker at the quarterly meeting of the Holy Name Society. His subject was *'Highlights of Notre Dame Campus Life." Western Washington Club is proud to number junong its membership one of the very few holders •of the Notre Dame .Alumni Fifty Year Club medal. Will Ticmey of tlie Class of 1901 re­ceived the distinctive gold emblem signifying iifty years membership on the Notre Dame Alumni Association. Club rolls have been boosted considerably by the addition of seven nrw members from the class of 1951. The following men are employed in the Engineering Department of Boeing Air­craft Company, Seattle Division: John Cleary, !£d Sheridan, Brandt Hackmann, Robert Hoard, Joe Latto and Jack Noyes. We hope to have an unusually good attendance 3t the Fourteenth Annual Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. It will be held at St. James Cathedral, Seattle, December 9, 1951, at "9 a.m. We are asking special prayers „Xor the repose of the soul of Joseph B. AIcNerthney, our late club member from Tacoma, who died very 
•suddenly October 31, 1951. Prayers also are re­<|uested for Mrs. W. H. Tiemey, \%-ife of AVill Tlemey, who passed away July 16. 
Wiiliamsport 
The Wiiliamsport (Pa.) Notre Dame Club rc­

•solvcd
 this year to raise a special fund for tlic "SD Foundation. To effect this goal, AMlliam 

H.
 DoH-ns, president, set up the organization for 


3. Notre Dame card party and a football ticket sale. 
As the result of efTorts of the members and aheir wives, both events were highly successful. A total of approximately $250 was raised, and a 
•check to the Foundation will be in the mail. John B. ^Vniiams, secreury of the club, han­
dled the football ticket sale, which culminated in a Notre Dame Night at the local council of ihe Knights of Columbus. Approximately 75 -persons attending the pictures of the highlights •of the 1950 M> football season. 
Mn . Leo C. Barland was general chairman •of the card party, attended by 150 persons. Her committee included Mrs. Frank C. Hayes, Mrs. IVilliam R. Do%viis, Mrs. Peter Somerville, Mrs. Harry Krimm, and other volunteers. 
Before both events were held in Wiiliamsport, 

•a
 group including President Downs, Mr. Hayes, and Mr. Willmann attended a special Notre Dame Totmdation dinner-meeting at Kingston, Pa., 

•where
 the objectives and needs of the Founda­tion were outlined to ND men from a number of Central Pennsy-lvania communities. 


of the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
HOUSTON. TEXAS 
November 21 , 1951 To All Notre Dame Men: 
You should know from our history its significance by the current chaos 
that Notre Dame, and your Alumni of our times. 
Board, consider alumni to be the bul­Local alumni, by their cultivation of 
wark of strength in the great Notre friends of Notre Dame and the things 
Dame programs away from the Uni­for which the University stands, and 
versity's own campus. by the interpretation of these things 
to the schools and parents of the It is my hope, and confidence, as many communities, can insure for the President of the Alumni Associa­Notre Dame the enrollment of young tion, that in this final year of the men who reflect the backgrounds and great administration of the Reverend who will embody the qualities essen­John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., alumni tial to our survival with all our rich will produce programs setting new heritages. 
records in an already deeply appre­ciated and highly creditable story of Each alumnus is, in an increasingly achievement. important reflection, Notre Dame it­self. 
This 1951 observance of Universal i have utilized the physical eco­Notre Dame Communion Sunday, De­nomies of an impersonal approach. But cember 9th, should be our biggest if you could sit with us in the meet­and best in the 13 years experience. 

ing of the Alumni Board, you would Keyed this year by the great all-alum­realize how personal my feeling is at ni Spiritual Bouquet for the purposes this moment—^whether you are alone of Father Cavanaugh's regime, alumni in some distant city, or whether you have added opportunities in local ob­share the vast potentials of the met­servances to tell the story of Notre ropolitan clubs. 
Dame as he has developed it so well. 
The Alumni Board, the Alumni Of­In cooperation with the University fice, the University administration, of Notre Dame Foundation, the alumni sharing with you some of the limi­have the force and the opportunity to tation of rapid expansion, are still bring much nearer to our goal the and unqualifiedly anxious and willing 100 per cent participation by alumni to offer-you our fullest cooperation in this vital and tangible implementa­in realizing our^mutual aims. 

tion of the University in the pursuit of its unbroken history of training Very sincerely yours, young men for moral responsible 
(Sig.) R. CONROY SCOGGINS, '24,
leadership—a contribution to our way of life that has been multiplied in President 
late Robert O'Toole, '39, a World War 
Death Strikes Crowe 
II casualty. We had listed only the 5
and O'Toole Families 
surviving brothers. 
Two great Notre Dame families This error was brought more forci­have been grieved by deaths that bly to mind by the death of Mrs. should find reflection in your prayers. Minnie Crowe, Lafayette, Indiana, 
In the recent obituary of Judge who also was the mother of 7 Notre James L. O'Toole, '21, Pittsburgh, the Dame sons who survive her — Clem, ALUMNUS regrettably lost sight of the Ed, Emmet, Francis, Norbert, Leo and fact that the O'Toole family had sent Michael. Mrs. Crowe died on Octo­7 sons to Notre Dame, including the ber 16. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Thoaas H. Kias. Tom doesn't know whether to cry with us or celebrate with his adopted Alma Mater. Tcnn is ViceXIhairman of the . 
Athletic CiHnmittee of Michigan State. I hope 
I> ALUMNI CLASSES 
he took care of the boys Saturday ni^ t whea * they were feeling low. Joteph Thoaaas Riley is prood to report that 
Fifty-Year Club 
From Frank KinscUa 
7034 South Western Avenue 
Chicago 36, Illinois 
"It was a great pleasure for me to receive the 
notification of my being formally elected to full 
membership In the Alumni and that I shall receive 
the ALUMNUS. This was an even more happy 
occasion since it has come to me just as I have 
finished celebrating my 90th birthday. 
"I graduated from the University in 1882. I 
was a senior while attending school, receiving 
my diploma and first honors. I am anxious to 
know if any of my classmates are alive today, 
and what they arc doing at this time. 
"I shall treasure highly my new election and 
you can rest assured you will always have my 
continued loyalty and interest in my school.*' 
THE RANKS THIN 

Francis Joseph Vurpillat, '91, of South Bend, 
Ind., former Dean of the Law School, died 
Oct. 26. 
In 1915 Mr. Vurpillat joined the law faculty 
of the University and was dean of the School of 
Law from 1917 until 1923. He then went to 
Chicago as assistant corporation counsel for the 
city. This post he retained until 1933 when he 
%v-as named attorney for the Federal Works Ad­
ministration in Washington and Chicago. He re­
tired in 1935 and made his home in South Bend. 
Among those surviving is his son. Dr. F. Jen­nings Vurpillat, '20, of South Bend. Pallbearers at the funeral included J. Clifford Potts, '25, Edwin Fredrickaon, '20, Dr. L. F. Fisher, '38, and John Wilfred Niemicc, '23. 
1902 
From J. M. Jenkins, M.D. 
117 S. Main 
St. Charles, Mo. 
"Early this year I accompanied my son to Notre Dame for his registration. As we ap­proached the campus a lump came in my throat with a not unpleasant nostalgia. 
"Flashes of memory: 
Fathers Morrissey, French, Reagan, Zahm, Cav­
anaugh. Corby Hall, Brownson Hall, Sorin Hall, 
St. Edward's Hall. Football and the shirt-tail 
parade in South Bend when Notre Dame de­
feated Alichigan. 
"These and many rccoUcctlons, rare and clear, 
and as indelible as the paintings of Columbus, 
Ferdinand and Isabella, Father Corby and others 
of the fateful past half century?" 
"It is with great satisfaction that my son has been privileged to attend Notre Dame, and there to have instilled in him the principles of Chris­tian living. 
"I look In vain in the ALUMNUS for the names of other '02 men. Am I the sole survivor of the fateful pa.t half century?" 
Tlie Alumni Office hopes that every member of the Class of 1902 is getting ready to be on hand on the frampus next June 6, 7, 8, to be inducted as a "freshman" in the 50-Year-Club, and to receive the beautiful commemorative medal which the Association Is proud to present on this grcai occasion. 
1904 
Mr. Thomas P. Gerraughty, ex 1904, of Spo­kane, Washington, died Oct. 15. He is survived by two daughters and a son, all of Spokane, to whom deepest s>'mpathies arc expressed. 
Mr. Gerrahghty was the Man-of-thc-Ycar in 
1950 for the Spokane Club. 
1907 
Plans for the 45th Reunion are not yet de­tailed, but set aside June 6, 7, 8 now. The first and most important part of the reunion is yoiur presence. Con.act your Classmates on this score now, and the arrangements for a pleasant weekend will be completed In the months ahead, 
stimulated as fresh attendance news is cleared. 
DEATH Mr. Anton A. Rosenbcrger, '07, of Wichita, Kansas, died on Sept. 26. He was buried in St. Mary's Cathedral, Wichita, with a most* .out­standing tribute by the Bishop and clergy to honor this saintly man of the Church-*; laity. Mr. Rosenbergcr was a Fourth Degriee Knight of Columbus, and a member of the Third Order of St. Francis. He was most active in the Alumni Association, affi;liating himself with the Kansas City Club. • 
1909 
DEATH 

Mr. Edmund J. Avery died in Green Bay, Wis., on the 26th of October. He had been an active member of the Green Bay Alumni Club. Rosary and a solemn requiem Mass were offered by these alumni for the repose of his soul. 
1912 
Your Editor had the pleasure of a ride to Chicago %\-ith Joseph B. McGlynn, immediately following the Southern Methodist game. The discussion naturally got aroimd to the 40th Re­union next June 6, 7, 8. The first step is to talk up the return of the Class. If everyone 
comes back, the program is bound to be a suc­cess, and plans will be made to make the weekend interesting to all. 
1917 
Bernard J. Vol! asked your Editor the other day, "What about the Class of 1917—35th Re­union?" Well, in a subtle and diplomatic way I reminded Bernle that he had been the key man in the Class reunions on the local scene, but that I would gladly sound the first alarm in this issue, and then we could begin ^vorking out the pag­eantry for June 6, 7, 8 In the months between. In reviewing the previous Reunions, it seems in­credible that any living member will not start packing his ensemble and his traveling kit as of now. 
1918 
George E. Harbcrt, Secretary 108 N. Main St. Sycamore, 111. 
The Wage Stabilization Board announced re* cently the appointment of a special regional board to assist in speeding up the processing of wage cases. It is composed of a tripartite group of four representatives of management, labor and public. These members will decide cases in Colo­rado, Utah, New Mexico and Wyoming. 
Of the four representatives of management is James P. Logan, managing director of the Moun> tain States Employers* Council. Congratulations to this distinguished alumnus. 
Father Ray Murray (Law, '18), head of the Department of Sociology at Notre Dame, reports that Sociology is "booming." The department has 25 graduate students working for Master and Doctor degrees. Articles by staff members in the last two years have appeared in all the leading American and British sociology journals. Father Murray's "Sociology for a Democratic Society" (Apple ton-Ccntury-Crofts, 1950) has been adopted in 60 colleges to date. 
Frederick J. Slackford. Fritz represents the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in Cleve­land. Between Notre Dame-Navy every other year and the Cleveland Browns every year, Fritz has retained his dyed-in-the-wool interest in football. 
Allan W. Fritzschc writes that his Com­pany (the General Industries Company of Elyria, Ohio) is expanding rapidly, employing about 1500 people. His business keeps him tied down but he docs visit with Hughie 0*Neil in Cleveland. Looks like we will have to borrow one of his derricks to pry* him out of Elyria for the Class 
Reunion in 1953. 
his son, James, entered the Univenity of Notre Dame as a Freshman in the Snnuner session this year. He collected a group of Western Miclugaa Alumni and flew to Baltimore to see the guae November 3. 
How about the rest of you fellows? We have heard from 6, leaving 87 to be heard from. 
1921 
Albcd K. Abnms, of Atlanu, Ga., lias le­
centlr returned from an eight-dar visit to the 
bedside of his son, Bernard, who was wounded 
in Korea. Abrams cut through m i tape to 
arrive in Osa ^ Japan, -three days after his som 
received very critical injuries. He had EteraDr 
hitch-hiked thousands of miles with only m letter 
to the hospital commander as identification. We 
are happy to find that his 26-yeaFoId son, a 
graduate of West Point, holder of the pre­
viously awarded Bronze Star for valor, and the 
Purple Heart for wounds received in Hay, n 
now well on the way to recovery. 
Aloysias D. Sdunitt of Decatur, Ind., is travel­ing to Mexico for a six month stay. 
DEATH 

Mr. Frank E. Coo^din, Chief Deputy At omey 
General of Indiana, died in St. Vincent Hospital, 
Indianapolis, on Sept. 8. In addition to being 
honored by the Knights of Columbus, American 
Legion, and the Elks, rosary services for hhn 
were sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley Mono­
gram Club and oSidated by Rev. Leo L. Warl, 
C.S.C. 
1922 
Gerald A. Ashe, Secretary 
39 Camhridge Street 
Ro«Aester 7, New York 
The last issue of the Alumnus carried to the 
men of our class the very sad news of the death 
of a wonderful friend and classmate—^Doctor Toai 
Keefe—following an operation in St. Mary's Hos­
pital, Mayo Brothers, Rochester, Minnesota. Doc­
tor Tom was exceedingly poptilar with his class­
mates because he radiated friendliness, and be­
cause he was so well mannered and soft sptAea. 
Who of '22 was not a friend of Tom Keefe? 
Only two months previously, Tom's beloved wife, 
Inez, died. Four Keefe children are left by 
the death of the parents, including tmns four years 
old. All of the children will be brooght np by 
the Keefe family. Frank Bloemcr and Jim Fan s 
visited Tcnn in St. Joseph's Hospital, Logaaqiort, 
before he went to Mayo's; also Father Bob 
Shechaa. . We of '22. do tender onr synqiatfay to 
relatives of Doctor and Mrs. Tom Keefe and 
ask prayers for the deceased. 
To Frank Mocmer of Louisville, we express our sympathy in the death of his belm-ed father, Frank Bloemer, Sr., and ask that he, too, be remembered in your prayers. 
Ralph Coryn must hold some kind . of record by the distinction of having three sons attewfii^ No:re Dame at the present time, one eagagiag in post<graduate work. We as a class are again highly honored in having one of our iii»iiin^T« selected as a candidate for oflSce of director oa the Alunmi Board, and the last so honored xs Ralph Oorya, who would be a worthy addition to the Board, if elected. Ralph and his wife visited their sons on the occasion of the SMU game. 
From Dan Yoaag, on closing day of July, COTMS a letter from Chuquicamata, Chile. Just about • a year ago, Dan was in the same location on business. Dan writes in his usual plcasmg and informative manner, as follows: 
"We are biulding a copper smelting plant here for the sulphite ore of the Chile Exploration Company. The ore will be mmed tmdcigfCMind. At the present time, the oxide ore plant is producing about 800 tons of copper a day. The oxide ore is obtained in an open pit nuae. We are linng at an altitude of around 9300 feet and a slight exertion reminds us ses-Ievel people that we are not buHt with the proper Ina^ ciqiacity to do much hard work in the altitudes. As long as I am able to confine myself to driv­ing around and slow walkmg, I am abk to pot 
NoyembcT'December, 1951 
in a 10 or 22-hour day, but by night I am tired. We arc in the Atacama desert, which ex­tends from the sea coast to the range of moun­tains separating Chile from Bolivia and the Ar­' gentine. Separating us from the sea coast arc the famous nitrate fields now all but abandoned, and as I drive to Antofagasta—140 miles a\vay, it is through deserted nitrate mining camps whicli arc now ghost towns. We have another job at Coquimbo, which is about 300 miles down the coast from Antofagasta, where wc arc building an iron ore ship-loading plant for the Bctli!chrm 
Slccl Company. Also, we have a job 125 miles inland from Belcm, Brazil, where wc arc locating and then designing a railroad for the transporta­tion of manganese ore discovered in the jungle country of that nation. The railroad will bring the ore 125 miles to a tributary of the Amazon where it will be loaded on ships and transported to the States. That job is practically on the Equator. This one here is about 21 degrees south of the Equator, and although this job is in the tropics, wc do have a coating of ice in the mornings on the pools of ivaicr Jch from our sprinkler trucks as they cover the roads on the previous day in an effort to settle the dust. 
**ChiIe is tremendously interesting with lovely 
people; and, although this country was settled by the Spaniards and tlic people here arc their progeny, there do not seem to be many Catholics. Emilio, who is writing this letter to you, cor­rects mc to say there are plenty of Catholics ' 
here. I asked if he is Catholic He replied that he came from a Catholic family. I asked if he attends church. He said that he docs not attend. So, apparently there arc plenty of Catholics here­abouts, hut they do not go to diurch, and Emilio says: "That is right." Anyhow, you sec what I mean. . . • When driving across the desert and you rcacli an oasis, the chances arc you will happen upon a cliurcli about two or three hundred years old. Tlic church may ba.vc a dirt floor, and tlic statues are garbed in the dress of this countr>' handed down through the centuries. The Jesuits are to be found out on 
these places and they are militant, for, even if the people have sagged in their faith, the priests remain faithful to their vows, and arc insisting that the remaining faithful be good Catholics. As you may knoiv, the Pope has just recently re­scinded the age-old Spanisli privilege ol eating meat on Friday, and I have always believed that such a concession removed a cause of strong faith, for those who make sacrifices for their beliefs, arc strengtiicaed in» their faith. You don't make sacrifices for nothing. 
"Wlien passing through Panama, I wanted to get in toucli with \lnce Hanrahan but did not arrive there until 1 a.m., and I was not sure Vincc would be home for he travels quite ex­tensively. I did not call him lest perhaps I might have aroused his family and made them apprehensive about whom %vas calling. Ho^vcver, on the plane, I got into conversation vritli a man who, mucit to my surprise, turned out to be Joe Harrington, whose address is Box 821, Ancon, Canal Zone—a graduate of Notre Dame about 1939. We, of course, talked about many things, but mostly of Notre Dame and her men." 
Wc arc pleased to report that Dan Young has since returned to his native Drexel Hill, Pennsyh-ania. 
Rosemary Jones, daughter of ifr. and Mrs. Jamcs V. Jones of Rochester, New York, be­came Mrs. William Larag>' on September 15 at ­Holy Cross Church, Rochester, New York. We extend our best wishes to Mr. and Mrs. Larag>­—and our congratulations to the bride's parents. Jim and Bern. By the way, Jim writes that his oldest boy, Jimmy, is now a senior at Aquinas Institute, Rochester, and anotlier son, Mike, is a sophomore zt Charlotte High in tltc same city.* Both are taller than the *'old man,'* according to Jim. 
Hcartley *'Hunk** Anderson, who has been in­active in the football coaching profession this fall, was the recipient of an offer from owner George Marshall of the professional Washington Redskins football team to ser\-e as Head Coach. Commis­sioner Bert Bell refused to permit "Hunk" to leave the Chicago Bears team on s^o">^ds he was still under contract to tliem, even though 
inactive. There was a happy ending when George Halas, owner-manager of the Bears, agreed to match the salary* offered by George Marshall. **Hunk" is on the firing line for the Bears once again. . . . Nice going. Hunk! 
Charlie HirsdibiiM writes from Portland. Ore­gon to express sympathy in the death of Doctor Tom Keeke and wife, also to inquire for more 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
MR. FRED V. LAUGHNA 

Dayton, O, — The appointment of Fred J. Laughna, Notre Dame '33, as assistant sales manager of the Air-temp Division, Chrysler Corp., was re­cently announced by J. F. Knoff, Air-temp general sales manager. 
A native of Detroit, Laughna joined the Chrysler Corporation in 1933 as a clerk in the factory time office. Three years later he was promoted to assist­ant manager of the Corporation's Aus­tralian export division. 
In 1940 he moved to the Airtemp 

division as an assistant to the mer­
chandising manager. He remained at 
this position imtil 1943 when he was 
named priority director and staff as­
sistant to handle government contracts. By 1947, when the plant had in­creased its postwar production of heat­ing, air conditioning and commercial refrigeration products, Laughna was manager of the Dayton region. In 1948 he was transferred to Detroit as regional manager and later was named manager of the Chicago region. In 1950, Laughna was promoted to administrative assistant to the vice president, from which position he moved into his present post. He is married and has three children. 
particulars. Charlie reports he is a grandpop again due to birth of grandson, Darid Drake, in August. Charlie indicates he is very highly pleased that Ralph Coryn has been selected as a candidate for office of director of the Alumni Board and is "pulling" for election of our fellow classmate who is most worthy of the honor of being selected a t:andidate, and one who would be a great credit to the office of director. Doctor %fatt ^Vels of St. houls^ a fel/ow classmate, is 
now rendering fine service on the Alumni Board. Another item mentioned by Charlie, informs us that Mrs. Jones of Dixon, Illinois, wonderful mother of three Notre Damers, Jerry, Herb, and Willard (deceased) has been in impaired health of late. Afother Jones has been exceedingly kind to countless Notre Dame men who have visited the Jones family home in Dixon. If anyone of 
'22 expects to attend the So. California game in Los Angeles, December 1, he may happen upon Charlie munching a hot dog in close proximity to the football battlefield. 
All that is necessary to get action from this '22 outfit is to have a blank or a near blank column under the '22 caption in the ALUAfNUS occa­sionally, then the boys realize that they are the only class reporters and really give Uncle Sammy's mail carriers some work to do. 
Doctor I}an Sexton, also, ivritcs ivords of sym­pathy in death of Doctor Tom Keefe and wife. Doctor Dan and Mrs. Sexton expect to be in Dallas on November 3, for the SMU-Texas game which is homecoming for SMU. A medical con­vention takes the good doctor to Texas. 
Father George B. Fisdier, C.S.C, our nomadic chaplain, who as a member of the Holy Cross Mission Band, Eastern Pro^nnce, helps keep the faith glowing brightly along the Atlantic Sea­board from Capt Cod to the Delaware Capes. Father George expects to finish an assignment in Staten Island, October 28. From there he goes to his headquarters—^North Easton, Mass., for one week, thence to Sugar Notch, Penns>-I­vania and White Plains, N. Y. Father George sa\-s he expects to attend our 30th Anniversar>­Reunion, if it will be worth-\vhiIe. We accept the challenge. Father George, and we aim to produce something on a par with our gala 25th 
Reunion—at least in good fellowship. Those who attended it will need no sales talk for this coming meeting of the clans. 
From many other sources come inquiries about our 30th Reunion. Your scribe resigned as class secretary some months ago, to pav** the wa" for the election of a new secretary and other officers of the class, since the Alumni Board decreed that elections be held. It is now felt that due to the close proximity of our 30th reunion, that would be the proper time and place to hold the '22 elections. Your scribe has agreed to serve as acting secretary from now "until commencement time, at whicli time elections arc to be held for offices of president, vice-president (about four to be selected with geographical location in mind}, treasurer and secretary. Your present act'mg sec­retary is starting the 30th Reunion ball rolling right now by appointing a Public Relations Com­mittee whose function it is to sell the 30th to all '22 men in your respective areas, also, to sell it 
to your boss, at the office and at home. Indeed. very little selling will be necessary to the '22 men who were at Notre Dame on the occasion of our 25th. The Public Relations Committee is as fonoi%-s: 
Of the Priesthood: Fathers George B. Fischer, C.S.C, P. J. Haggerty, C.S.C, Robert Shechan, C.S.C, Robert Gallagher. 
Notre Dame and St. Joe Valley: Fred Dressel, Aaron Huguenard, Pat Manion, Bcmie McCaffery, Paul Paden, Tom "Sargc" Owens, AValter Shilts, Gene Smoger, Harold Weber. 
Chicagoland: Al Carroll, Jerry Dixon, Joe Far­ley, GeonK Hcneghan, Tom KfcCabc, Harold McKce. Chet W>-nne. 
Twin Cities, Minnesota: Dan Coughlin, Dr. Wal­lace Krcighbaum, George McDermott, Paul Mc­Dermott, Clarence Smith. 
Wisconsin: Doctor Hank Atkinson, John Paul Cullcn. 
Northwest: Hon. D. Worth Clark, Charlie Hirschbuhl. California: Gene Kennedy, Jim McCabc, Hon. A! Scots "Buck" Shaw. Tri Cities: Ralph Coryn, Al Rhomberg, Joe 
Rhombcrgf Clarence Zwack. Kansas City: Joe Shaughnessy. Nebraska: Jerry Barrett. 
Illinois (except Chicago): Ste\-c Carmody, Jerry 
Jones. Iowa: Jim Shaw. St. Louis: **C>*" Fites, Doctor Dan Sexton, 
Doctor Matt W^eis. Indiana (except South Bend area): Ray Keams, 
Walter Stuhldreher. Near South: Frank Bloemer, Louisville. Far South: Eddie Byrne, Natchez, Harry Mehre, 
Atlanta. Cleveland: Pete Champion, George Ker\-er. Cincinnati: John Hart. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Dayton: Frank Blastus. New York City area: Eddie Gottry, Jud Hyland, Bill Murphy, Bob Shea. ^ 

Upstate New York: Robert Galloway, John Huetber, Dr. John Kelley, Jim Jones, Clint ZJnU, Frands Ott. 
New England: Eddie Anderson, Chuck Crowley, Jim Dooley, Cy Kellett, Hon. Jim Murphy, Art Shea. 
Pittsburgh: Morgan Sheedy. Philadelphia: Ed Bailey, Dan Young. Detroit: **Hunk** Anderson, Jim Forcn, Jack 
Higgins, Walt Matthes. Arizona: John Hilkert. Texas: Commander James Barry Holton. Canal Zone: Vincc Hanrahan. South America: Luis Bustamcnte. 
It is expected consultation will start imme­diately with Aaron Huguenard, who performed so admirably as director of our 23th Reunion, to formulate plans for J unc. We hope that he can be persuaded to assume a major role in the direc­tion of our 30th. Also, Pat Maniao, Bemie Mc-Caffery, and Harold Weber must be consulted, for wc are deeply indebted to these men for their wonderful hospitality the last time. A near rebellion would be under way if it were even hinted these men would not be guests of the Class of *22 on this occasion! A. reunion director will be chosen, and the director will select his various working committees to cover arrange­
ments, publicity, transportation, etc. In the meantime, wc exhort all men of '22 to offer sug­gestions on what should be done to make our 30th a grand success. Can anyone come through with some original ideas to match the perform­ances of Ed Bailey, Robert Galloway, Harold McKce, and Dan Yotmg, in publicity for our Silver Anniversary gathering?—^^VouIdn*t Bill Cas­tellinx (God rest his soul) do everything possible **to top" his grand work of five years ago, if he were alive today. 
1925 
John P. Hurley, Secretary 1218 City Park Avenue Toledo, Ohio 
Mr. Walter J. Cyr has been ad%-anced from assistant trade sales manager to assistant to the general sales manager of the Stamford, Conn., 
di\'ision of Yale &. Towne Manufacturing Co. George F. Fitzgerald of Olean, N. Y., has been promoted to assistant refinery superintendent of the Olean refinery of Socony-Vacuum Oil Com­pany. 
1926 
John J. Ryan, Secretary 2434 Greenleal Ave. Chicago 45, 111. 
Bert Dunne of Los Angeles has been appointed as sports counsellor of Don Lee Television and station KHJ-TV. Mr. Dunne, a sports picture producer, has written seven books on football, baseball, boxing and other sports and has pro­duced 10 visual education pictures on sports sub­jects. While at Notre Dame Bert served as pub-licit>' director for Knutc Rocknc and his famed Four Horsemen. 
"DO YOU REMEMBER?"—is what was pro­duced from your secretar>"'s cry for help carried in the September-October column. From Elkton, 
Mar>'lan, Bob Andrews wrote: "After reading your sad talc in the last issue of the ALUMNUS it seems as though you thoroughly drained the well on your pre-convcntion round-up of news. It's my thought that you might be able to get some space filling data by asking for some *I re­member* notes of happenings during the class years." 
That looks to your secretary* like a very good idea. So, how about it, fellows? Send them in. We'll print *cm in the column and perhaps your 
*"Do you remember?" will bring forth one or dozens from other classmates. But one word of caution—tliey'U be put into the column just as they are written, so for the sake of the happy marriages among our classmates, please don*t send in anything that might start a family row. As a matter of fact, why not send a copy of your letter to anyone you mention and tell liim that 
unless he gets off a "Don't Print" to your class secretary- at once it will be written as you send it. 
Since the idea is from Bob Andrews perhaps he can start the ball rolling—and, those of you who 
Novembet'December, 1951 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
PAUL E. NEVILLE 

The South Bend Tribune recently announced the promotion of two alumni in its Sports Department. 
Paul E. Neville, '42, sports editor since June, 1949, was appointed man­aging editor efFective Oct. 13. 
Joseph A. Doyle, '49, sports writer since September, 1949, was appointed sports editor effective Oct. 13. 
Prior to serving 42 months in the army during World War II, Neville was Notre Dame correspondent for the Tribune. After his discharge he re­turned to the South Bend paper where, in 1949, after the sudden death of Jim Costin, he became sports editor. 
Doyle, who has been a farmer, a gasoline station operator and a news­paper reporter, served in the Army from 1943 through 1945. 
JOSEPH A. DOYLE 

have "Do you Remembers** involving Bob conkl send thtm along. Let's start the year 1932 wiih memories of the years 1922 to 1926. HopefoUy, your secretary says '*Watch for the column in the January-February issue/* 
From Wooster, Ohio, comes an announcement of the marriage on Sept. 1 of Miss Gertrude Lucille Reis and Artlinr J. Klise. Some of us were lucky enough to meet Art's charming fiancee 
at Reunion time, and we all offer our best wishes to both of them. 
Speaking of weddings—Bill Dooley reports that he became a father-in-law last stunmer when hts son, Terry, married Miss Kathleen Hughes at KudsoUj Wis. Terry graduated at St. John's Uni­versity, Collegcx'ille, Minn., last spring and is now attending the UnK'ersity of Illinois. 
Among classmates your setartary has seen at various home football games this fall are Fres. Ray Dnnt, Moas. Joe Toomer» Bud Barr, and Joe Qmalan. Also saw John Tnolir from a dis­tance, but did not get to say hello to him. 
You may have heard of the death in Korea of Lt. Col. Hearr J> DiBoa. According to word from Bin Foofccy which was verified through Gi­rard Smith of Denver. Hank, who graduated in Chemical Engineering, later attended medical school and has been practicing in Denver. Say a prayer for the repose of hu soul. A Mass will be said on the campus for him. 
According to the newspapers Clem and £d 
Cnnre  lost  their  mother  recently.  She  gave  
Notre  Dame  some  mighty  fine  sons.  Our  sym*  
pathies  to  them.  

"Give to Notre Dame**—have you sent in your contribution to the Father Cavanaugfa Testi­monial Fund? If not, please take this as a re­minder to be sure to send it before the end of December. 
I'd like to end this short column on that note, but being just a little selfish I'll use my nsaal ending *'Send that dope in for the next column." —phis (a secretary's license) "A VERY HAPPY CHRISTM.^S TO ALL.*' 
1927 
Frank Monn 633 East Mosroe St. 
Soath Bead 1, lad. 
Members of the class will be glad to know that our president, •*Mike** Swygert, has recov­ered hu health and is again active both judicially and executively. One of his signal achievements so far has been the securing of the services of Herb Joacs as reunion chairman, an appointment that alone almost guarantees the success of the reunion. Though Herb will pr[4)ahly not get into action fully until after Christmas, he undoubtedly will welcome suggestions at any time. There arc many Iftcal *27 men whom he can call on for the necessary committees. 
When I suggested doubts about the feasibility of carrying out Tom Dunn's suggestion that a class roster be sent to every member of the class, I was speaking out of a background o£ ahnost complete ignorance of Alumni O^ce serv­ices. Jim Armstrong graciously assured me that his office would gladly take over here. As a result, you have received the presidential letter, the class roster, and -a questionnaire, the model for which was sent me by John Brennan of Detroit. 
The questionnaires, filled out, are coming ia at the rate of about five a day, a gratifying return. These furnish much welcome information and save me a lot of time that would otherwise be spent in w^riting begging postcards; but they are, after all, necessarily skeletonial, and so, no adequate substitute for newsy letters. It would be very helpful if those who have not yet made their returns would use the blank side of the sheet for further news about themselves and classmates, and perhaps some indication whether they are likely to get back for the reunion. 
We have to report the sad news that the Reverend Frederick J. Schulte, C.S.C., pastor of Holy Cross church since 1946, died in early October. Father Schulte, who was ordained in 1931, received the bachelor of arts degree in June, 1927. All members of the class wHl wish to remember Father Sdmlte in their prayers. 
A couple of months ago I ran into Ray Hunt on Michigan St., where we compared notes for an hour or more. Though Ray lives in South Bend, I had not seen him for twenty years or more, so deeply do we wear our tndiWdual ruts. After having been a newspaper man on several papers in South Bend, Detroit, and Chicago, he is now with the Research Institute of America, Inc., working the local territory. Ray has two children, a son, married and living in South Bend, and a daughter. 
Wc had a brief visit from Father Jim Moran, 

now a cliaplain in tlie Air Force. Father Jim 
was about to leave for Idalio, whence he expected 
to be dispatched to Korea or Africa. I insulted 

him unconsciously by referring to his scr\ice as 
the Army, not • being properly sensitive to tli= 

modem service distinctions. Those who remember 
Jim as \'arsity lightweight will realize that he 
would not let this pass without challenge, though, 
fortunately for me, he was content ^vith an 
apolog>*. Since rc-enlisting Father Jim has spen:­
about two years in Alaska. 
In September, Bill Clarke %\Tote that he is still in the Rcaltj- and Insurance business in Toledo, and that business is good. Bill's daughter, aged twenty, lives with him in the family home­stead. Bill reports seeing Ed Hagerty, '28, an. attorney, often; also Norf Scharf, who left ND in 1926. Norb has four children and is credit manager for the Toledo Edison Co. Among others that he sees occasionally arc \Valt AMlcox, Tony Krause, and Don McColl. Bill promises to be back in June (he has missed only one of the June get-togethers at XD since he's been back in Toledo). 
From Baltimore, Bill BIcwett writes that he is 

Director of Safety for the Baltimore Division of 
AVcstinghousc Electric Corporaiton. Bill is mar­
ried but has no children, and says that he 
seldom sees any classmates. He does not ^ at 
present expect to get back for the reunion. 
Dan Cunningham sends several pieces of news, 

about himself and classmates. Dan has been 
with Blair Holdings Corporation for the past 
three years, is married, and has two daughters, 
nineteen and fifteen, respectively. Dan says that 
he enjoyed the twentieth reunion so much that 
he'll surely try to make this next one. Of 
classmates, he writes: 
"I sec a couple of the *27 fellows here in New York occasionally. Jimmie Jones (the well-known James A. J.) is living in Lynbroofc and the Cunninghams and Joneses sec quite a bit of each other. Jim is in the hospital at the moment, having been operated oa tor two rup­tured discs yesterday. Laura Kennedy Jones (St. Mary*s '27) reported the operation successful and Jimmie resting comfortably %vhen we talked with her last night. 
"Mark Ne*Tls lives about two blocks from mc 

in Forest Hills. He is now ^%•ith Boeing. Unfor­
tunately, Mark spends a great deal of time in 
Washington, D. C., and in traveling about the 
country; as a result I do not sec nearly as 
much of him as I would Hkc. 
"Jim Brown is Treasurer of the South Amer­ican Minerals and Merchandise Corporation. AVc are both doing some work with tlic Career Clinic run by the Notre Dame Club of New York and so we sec each other rather frequently. 
"Brick" (W. W.) Smith is now Red Smith of the New York Herald-Tribune. The Smiths used to live in Malveme, Long Island, which is the next town to L^-nbrook, and the Smith, Joneses, and Cunninghams used to get together occasion­ally. However, Brick recently moved to Con­necticut and we haven't seen eacli other in the last three or four months. Brick is doing a fine job on the Herald-Tribune and is, without doubt, the best sports writer in the town. 
"Jack Gruning^ is practicing law in Brooklyn. The last time I saw Jack was at a Brooklyn Prep (where we both went to school before Notre Dame) sports dinner. Jack had his son, John, Jr., with him and if the perfect example 
of the proud father. With good reason, I must add. 
**If there is anything I can do to help you keep the 1927 column in existence, or help in any way to make the reunion a success, you have only to tell me what you want and I shall be glad to do what I can." 
Needless to say, such letters help the c»Iumn immensely. Joe Reedy responded to Tom Dimn's innuendo, reported in the column of the preceding issue, with alacrity. Joe's answer, which I tran­scribe, should be a complete and convincing answer, even to a former roommate. 
Joe writes: 
"I must admit I have been driven out of my hutch by Tom Diam*s reporting that the last time beard from, I was a major in World war ir and that. Til bet even Joe can't ex­plain that.' Of course I knew Dunn as only a roommate could, and knowing that he considered sarcasm as being impolite, I would like to hasten to explain that the reason I was a major was solely due to slow promotions and a short war!!! That answer your question, Dunn? 
"Now that my honor is redeemed I'll tell all, so as to possibly get on a Christmas card list or two of some of the '27 pals who tised to help me keep eligible for the third team before this was a *pagc one' news item. 
".\fter having won the w*ar, I became associated with a Chicago concern for five years, and then took a francliisc ivith tlic Washmobilc Corporation. 
"The success that followed in the Missoiu^ and Illinois area encouraged a move, and so I took the state of Florida and have been active here since Sept. 1. Although I have established an ofHcc here I have not yet taken a permanent residence, and, still being a bachelor, (that's two of this species so far reported in this column), I 
will delay that decision until I get a cross section of the size of the families some of the classmates intend to bring along with them come snow time! (Dan Moore is automatically ruled out— the last time I heard of him he had five children and no one ever hears of Dan Afoorc the last time.) 
''Recently I attended the American Association playoflTs in Milwaukee with the president of U. S. Washmobilc, and as he formerly owned tht. 'Brewers,* wc visited with Charfie Grimm and his 
right hand man 'Red* Smith. Before my hand had stopped pulsating from Gentile Richard's handshake, wc bumped into John Roadi, *25, who is now national sales manager (I believe) for Schcniey's A\Tiiskey—whatever that is!" 
I dropped a card of inquiry to Chuck Beretz and got a reply from Paul, who is apparently the corresponding member of the family. Ac­cording to Paul. Chuck Ii\*cs in Yonkers, is hap­pily married, and is a high-powered salesman of Cadillacs and Oldsmobilcs in AMiite Plains and vicinit>*. Chuck saw action with the combat en­gineers in Patton's army and returned safe (with souvenirs). Paul says that one might be fooled by Chuck's Hitler-Iike mustache, unless one watched him perform in a game of pocket bil­liards or on a violin. 
Paul is also happily married, has two boys, Paul, 13, and Robert Charles, 2. He lives in Great Neck and since 1943, has worked for the 
IV. C. Gilman and Co., public utiHt>' engineers and financial consultants. He reports having met over the last several years Frank Klaas in Chi­cago, Red Reidy and John Igoe, '28, in Cleve­land, Norb Sdiarf in Toledo and, recently, in New York, and Carl Feske in Indianapolis. Final­ly, he says that "both Chuck and I have already received the *if you promise to behave' permission of our respective wives to 'stag' (or stagger) attend the 25-ycar reunion." 
Joe O'Donnell sends notes on several of the '27 men he has run into lately. At a mcetimr of the ND Club of Chicago, he met Bill Halloran, recently moved to Chicago, with a son just start­ing at Notre Dame. Bill Corbctt is vice-president qf Bums, Corbett and Pick, dealing in municipal bonds and doing investment counselling work on LaSallc St. Bill has been married twenty-three years and has six children, three boys and three girls, his oldest boy graduating from Notre Dame 
next June, and the next boy entering next Sep­tember. A commander in the U.S.N.R., Bill has recently returned from a "warm-up" at Treasure Island in California. 
John (Jack) Patton is president of the Mitchell National Bank, Mitchell, South Dakota. Jack is also on several sub-committees of A. B. A. and as such travels quite considerably. He has been married about seventeen years and has two daughters and one son. 
Ed Ryan is with Sears in Chicago, in persoimel u'ork. £d has been married tit-cnty-four years, has three' boys and one girl, the oldest boy grad­uating from ND in June. Ed is reported to be still sore at Father Fat ILiggerty for telling lum he stayed out all night and so couldn't get up for morning prayer. 
Bob Stephan has a fine job with' the U. S. Gypsum Co., is married, has five beautiful daugh­ters, and lives in Park Ridge, HI. According to Joe, Bob is perennially youthful, still a freshman at heart. 
Joe met both Bob and Willie O'Kccfe on the way back from the SMU game, the latter lun^g his nine-year-old son with him. Bill is in whole­sale grocery work in Moberlcy, Mo., and doing very well. Finally Joe mentions occasionally seeing Jerry LcStrange, Tom Nash, Joe Delia Maria, Frank AfcGhee, Freddie Deutsch, Ed Garrity, and others. Herb Sdiwartz, from Dun­kirk, wants to know how Bill Finucane is. 
Joe himself has been married for twenty-four years, has three sons and a daughter: No. 1— ND in '51, now U. S. A., Finance School; No. 3, 
U. S. A. in Baltimore; No. 2, graduated from 
N.R.O.T.C. at ND. Joe is in the specialty gro­cery business in Chicago. He is still looking for a siren stolen from him and would like to have it returned by the reunioner that snagged it. 
Ted Berkery, now living in Scarsdalc, N. Y., vice-president and counsel for the Emigrant In­dustrial Savings Bank in New York City, sends along the suggestion that the class of '27 make a substantial contribution to the Father Cav­anaugh Testimonial as part of its reunion activity. The idea has been passed on to President Swygcrt and you'll probably hear more about it. 
Ed KIcKenna writes from Kingman, Kansas, that he has spent some time in building up a cow-herd of which he is proud and finds the ranch an ideal place for raising his three boys. Now if Ed could throw a couple of sides of beef over the saddle before he rides in for the re­
union, we could perhaps rerive the old home­coming barbecue. 
Tom O'Connor, also with three boys, lives (p Bellefontaine, ^vhcre he carries on a real estate business and farms. Tom suggests that it might be well if each man would write to a few 
friends about their actiritics, and the prospects of their getting hack next June, in order to kindle some enthusiasm. 
John Harwood, of Woolwinc. Hanvood and Clark, arc:hitects, in Nashville, reports a family of "very young youngsters." He writes: **We live in the suburbs, have a house that is too small, two lawn mowers that never work, and two dogs that always eat. Present work consists mainly 
of housing projects and schorls, alio have built a College Librar>-, and a variety of other stuff too numerous to mention." John plans to be on hand for the reunion. 
One of our most regular reunlontsts of the past, John Wallace, nou- in the Far West, hopes to keep his record unblemished. John says: "I can't say at this time that I'll be able to be on hand for the reunion, hut I'll do the best I can to work it out. I have a daughter in the convent at St. Mary's, and can use that as an excuse to get back! I also have another daugh­ter in the convent in nearby Santa Barbara, who will probably give mc her permission to make the trip. And by tlie way, those two should put 
me among the leaders of the class of '27 who arc parents of children following religious voca­tions." 
Several addresses have been furnished for mem­bers listed on the class roster as unclaimed. Eail Worthington is a highly successful architect and member of the firm of Hadley and Worthing­ton, Springfield, Illinois. Emmett Kirwan re­sides at Avondale Estates, Geor;gia, P. O. Box 64. Frank Andrews is an architect in Cleveland with an office in the Hanna Building. The address 
of Thomas D. McMahon is 2528 S. W. Ravens­\-iew Road, Portland, Oregon, and that of Champ 
C. Van^ian is 2912 S. E. 76th Ave., in the same city. William O. Bradenburg, a public account­ant, lives at 215 Seebirt Place, South Bend, and Alton Crofoot has an insurance agency and lives on Bremen Rd., Afishawaka. John Reidy believes that Joe Murray, who left ND at the end of his freshman year, would be interested in making the reunion, but John doesn't know his address in Cleveland, whether he is with the Don^lly or O'Donnell Real Estate firm. 
Many of the returned questionnaires will have to be taken account of in the next issue. Kfean­while, several have remarked on the number in the class listed as deceased. l^fany of these should have appeared in the unclaimed category. To correct your roster transfer the following names to the "unclaimed" cla<(sIficatIon:' 
John W. Congdon, Alton Craroot, Eugene H. Edwards, Michael P. Farrcll, Ned H. Fenlon, Paul Flora, Richard L. Flymi, James F. Foley, George 
W. Gnettler, Daniel J. Har\>ey, Thomas L. Ho­gan, Jr., Fanl J. Ji^iosoa, Raymond J. Kasber, Nkiiolas J. Kanffman, Josc|di M. McCarthy, Leo 
J. McCanley, Francis C. Xfiller, John P. Mont-b^a^ Lyle £. Motcacy, Edward Moriarty, TWMUS D. Murphy, Basil L. Stanley and George L. Waller. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1928 
l>ro R. Mclntyre, Secretary 30trt Turner St. Allentown, Fa. 
From Louis F. Buckley: 
Our Treasurer, Bcmie Garber, suggested when I saw him recently in New York that the class should arrange for a Mass to be said for our deceased classmates. Father Jim McSbane, S.J., has been selected to offer a Mass for the thirty deceased members of the class of 1928. Father Jim wrote to me from Sacred Heart Church, 2760 Larimer St., Denver 5, Colorado, advising that he would be pleased to sing a High Mass for the deceased classmates in Novem­ber. As you are aware, three classmates were added to the list of deceased members during the past year, John AfcMahon, Bob Knox, and Joe Bcnda. Please advise mc immediately whenever you hear of the d^'ath of a classmate, as the class is now in a position to arrange for a Mass for individual classmates at the time of their dca:h, as well as annually for all deceased mem­bers of the class. 
Two of the '28 men in Chicago Ed Rafter and Bill Goelit2, lost their mother during the summer. X visited the funeral home in each case and extended the s>'mpaihy of the class. 
Mrs. Buckley, my son, and I spent a very pleasant vacation with Denny Daly, his wife and their two boys at Rice Lake, Wisconsin. Denny, as you know, is practicing law in St. Paul and is teaching tax Jaw at the University of Min­nesota. 
Bill Jones, his wife and daughter \'isitcd us in Chicago on their way to Montana and California Sor a six weeks' \-acation this summer. Bill is practicing law in Washington and is kept busy as President of the Notre Dame Law Association and as a Vice-President of the Alumni Association. 
I spoke at the Class Secretaries* Conference at Notre Dame on June 6 on "The Care and Feed­ing of the Class Secretary." I regret that Leo Mclntyre was unable to attend. The class was represented at the meeting by j€>e Morrissey and 
Bill Jones, who *»crc also attending the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Associa­tion. Joe is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Afonogram Club. 
It was good to sec that Superior Judge John Gullinan was selected Southwest Connecticut Club's "Year Man" and Pat Canny was chosen "Man of the Year'* by the Cleveland Notre Dame Club. Pat is Assistant General Counsel for the Erie . Railroad. The Pittsburgh "Man of the Year" scroll was awarded posthumously to John Kfc-Mahon. His sons, John, Jr., and Mike, ac­
cepted the award in behalf of their father. 
Two of our vice-presidents, Jim Canizaro and Art Canty should be commended for the letters ihey are writing to '28 men in their regions. I trust the classmates give their letters the atten­tion they deserve. Also don't forget that Bemie Garber, our Treasurer, will be pleased to receive contributions for the class treasury at 33 ^Vest 660th Street, New York 23, N. Y. 
I saw a number of *28 men at the Southern Methodist game, including Swede Schrocder, Vince Walsh, Bill Murphy, Augie Grams, Joe Morrissey and Bill Jones. They all indicated they ^vouId return for the twenty-five-year reunion in 1953. It is the first time I have seen Swede Schroeder since graduation. He is practicing law in Detroit Lakes, Minnesota, and has five children. I met 
Swede and his son, who is attending Notre Dame, at Gate 4 before the game. Joe Morris­»ey has two boys at Notre Dame this year. Frank Donovan's son is in his senior year at Notre Dame. Will he be the first son of a *28cr to finish at Notre Dame? Frank has a daughter at St. Mary's and another son at St. Thomas .Military Academy in St. Paul. 
^ A few days in Akron, Ohio, on business gave me the opportunity to visit Art Gleason and his family. Art is superintendent at Goodrich Tire and Rubber Co. and does some fanning at his home near Stow, Ohio. Art has a son at the Goodrich Co. and a daughter at Kent Univer­sity. He also has a son in grade school and a daughter at home. I was pleased to find that his wife has completely recovered from a broken neck suffered in an accident last year. 
I noticed in the paper where Joe Breig of Cleveland spoke in Chicago recently on the sub­ject "How to Go to Heaven—Easy.'* 
Bemie Garber passed along some information about three classmates from whom he had heard recently. He sent his earlier letters to our Secretary, Leo Mclntyre. Leo J. Roznm wrote to Bernic under the letterhead Rozum Motor Co., Afcrcury, Ford and Lincoln, Mitchell, South Dakota. Leo has two hoys, 9 and 12, who ex­pect to go to Notre Dame. Leo said he would try to attend the 25-year reunion. Harold Miller wrote from Anaheim, California, where he is office manager for C. W. Wise & Sons, a truck­ing firm specializing in citrus hauling. Harold indicated he would like to hear from Art Staiins. He hoped to see some of the classmates before the Southern California game, and indicated he will be sur*; to make the 25-year reunion. Ed Finn wrote from Salida, Colorado, that he hopes to sec a lot of the fellows at our 25th reunion. 
Although acknowledgments have been sent to each, B:mie Garber says "Thank you** again to the 54 men of the '28 class who have contrib­uted $252 to the class fund. Donations have ranged from one to twenty dollars. 
Eugene Farrell of Harrisburg, Pa., announced in October that he would leave Harrisburg in the near future to join the executive staff of the Ncwhouse newspaper group. This would entail work in New York and New Jersey, as well as Harrisburg. 
1929 
Donald J. Plunkett, Secretary Biology Reportment Notre Dame, Ind. 
Frederick C. Miller has added another job to his list of many. He has been selected by Archbishop Moses E. Kiley as chairman of the special gifts committee in the drive for a new St. Aemilian's Orphanage building in Klilwaukce. 
Bernard £. Losfabougb has been appointed as the Housing Specialist of the National Security Resources Board. Mr. Loshbough is also a mem­ber of the Board of Governors, National Hous­ing Conference, and the American Society of Architects and Planners. 
1930 
Devere Plunkett, Secretary Sodol Science Bldg. Notre Dome, Ind. 
DEATHS 

John H. Conlon from Ann Arbor, Mich., died recently following a short illness. He had been with the Monroe, Mich., Paper Co. previous to 
his death. While at the University John was active and popular in many things including track. He won monograms as a hurdler. He is survived by his wife and two children. 
Sympathies are extended to Judge H. Edward Steinbacher after receiving the sad news that his father died on August 17 in South Haven, Mich. 
1931 
James T. Doyle, Secretary 6457 N. BeU Ave. Chicago 45. 111. 
Since publication of the last issue of the ALUM­NUS, I have received several interesting letters. This is indeed encouraging, and, if this response continues at an increasing rate, wc will have no difficulty presenting a top-notch column every other month. Many who attended the retmion dinner promised to ivrite occasionally, so I am looking forward to a large amount of news for the next issue. 
Jim McQuaid wTites: "Today the ALUMNUS arrived and we read it immediately. I was so glad to hear about so many of the boys who were not able to make the Reunion in June .. . you are doing a grand job of getting ne%vs in the 1931 column .. . keep it up. Business has been very slow, but I am hiding it will pick up soon. We are planning to get out letters »^Sn 
about subscriptions, and the lists we got at school this summer will certainly help to brii^ oar JBle up to date. As I have mentioned in a note to you at the office, Marie and I are planning to go to the SMU game, so look ms vp if yon caa .. . I will be in the usual platform for the wheelchairs on the field .. . or perhaps we caa manage to run into you at the Cafeteria oa Sat­urday morning. I got up to school ^ain for the Retreat in August . . . tha: was a wonderful experience .. . I wish sometime you could man­age to come down for those four days .. . it b wonderful! Best wishes from Marie and my­
self, and we hope to see you soon.'* 
I recently received some mail from Jim showing him on the phone soliciting subscriptions for per^ odicals. I think each and everyone of ns can greatly increase his business by sending all new subscriptions or renewals for office and hoine through !hfac*s Magazine Rack, 28 North Fifth Street, Vincennes, Indiana. 
Martin \^^dcr, Detroit, Klichigan, writes: "Just a no'.e on our situation here. We see Afatt Garrigaa regularly. Matt has his own insurance 
. agency and is an ardent football fan. Joe Carey's {'32) four offspring BOX with our eight ngnhaif. We have four in Gesu School, as have the Careys. Other Notre Dame children attending Gesn are Dan Henry, Jade Brcen, Art Cranin, Bert Baaer» Ma] Knans, and Bill Storca. Also in the parish are Lou Malone, Jim 03rica , and several others I can't recall. We have five boys and three ^rls, four of whom are redheads. Enjoyed hearing of 
F. X. Mnrphy, Caii Gaensslcn, (but what hap­pened to G'Hora—Oh, those summers at St. Ed­wards), Tex Briegcr, EnUl Telfd, Bob Newtoa, Joe Blaaey, Bob Cunmagham, Morris Leahy, and Frank HoOaad. I wish I could have seen every­one, but missed the Reunion waiting for Bob, oar latest arrival. I'm still with Detroit Edison. My brother **Mac," class of *28. is in Huron, South Dakota, with Standard Oil.*' Thanks, Mart, for a Dice letter. 
Thooias Golden, late of Australia, and who ts now in Butte, Montana, writes: *T vr»s dMightcd to see so much *31 news in the ALUMNUS. I have just about lost track of all Notie Dame men. When I was discharged from the Navy la '45, I went back to Notre Dame for a Master in Education. While I was there, our dass had its fifteenth reunion, and I enjoyed seeing the fellows. After 1 received my degree. T weat to Svdncv. Australia, to marry the girl whom 1 met in '42 (down there). Everyone to'd her Aat Yank would never come back, but sh*^ wait^, and wc were married in Dettmber, 1947. We Ined very happily for two years, during whidi time she presented me with a wonderful soa. Late in *49, things becan to hannen. An old mjury which I received in the Na\T, rrhen I was blown off the superstructure of the crmatr, devclooed into arthritis of the spine and Parkia­son's Disease, which is incurable and progressive. In May, 1930, my lovely wife died of an acnte cardiac disease, and at that time the b^bv was just over tweU-e months old. In October of that 
year, I left Sydney witih the baby on the "Oarangi," which goes to Vancouver. Tbd a great tune taking care of the baby for over three weeks. He was fifteen months old, and I had wet diapers from one end of the ship to Uie other. On the way back from AttstraHa, I radioed to Tom Flyaa at Honololu and asked him to get hold of my old zonmmate, but be vfai in the States at the time. Tom took David and me to the Padfic Club for diimer.'* We met his wife, and after diimer they drove ns cmt to their house, which is certainly a show plaee. Mrs. Fiynn took complete charge of David, whSdi was a relief to me. Tcmi and his wife are most charming and I am deeply grateful to them for the won<lerfiiI way we were received. Tom gare me his mother's phone number, and when I was in Chicago, X called Mrs. Flynn, and was ia­vited out to dinner. It has all turned ont pretty well. My sister and her husband have adopted 
my son, David. I am not too well, hainag spent some time at the Veterans' Hospital here, and am now supposed to be totally disabled. I plan on going back to Australia." 
Toas Goldea's present address » 1101 Wo t Broadway, Butte, Montana. I ima^ne be would like to hear from some of his classmates. 
George Kavaaaai^ from Mansfield, Ohio, am-Bounces the birth of his first bom—a boy, oa September 17tfa, in Mansfield, Ohio. They have named him Dennis Andrew Kavanaugh. 
Henry G., the famous "Red" O'ConncH, of 
Howard Hall, and now li\-ing in Skokie, Illinois, 
is the father of another baby boy. 
Ray GoUiBs called to advise that Jerry Des­
nond is now li\ing in Grand Junction, Michigan. 
GO Seaman had as his recent dinner guest. 
Dr. Maurice Rcsan. Mauric is in Chicago to 
attend a special course in surgery at Cook 
County Hospital. While here, his wife prcscnied 
him with a baby daughter. They haxc two otiier 
babies. It was certainly a nice way to take 
care of his best patient. 
Bill Bromann, *30, told me that he and his wife had recently entertained the George tink­lers, who were in from New York City recently. Bill reports fa\*orably on George—that he has no gray hatrs and has not changed since his da>-s at Morrisse>- Hall. Eddie R>"an reported seeing Emie McGlo\'e and Father Doremus at the Indiana Game. 
While on a recent \-acation trip, I stopped to sec Tom Monahan in Areola. Illinois. It was my first visit there since participating in their wedding several years ago. My wife and I had a very pleasant visit with ^Iar>' Mnni'ian and their four children. Tlie boys insutcd ihat I take Tom*s place on the volunt.-rer fire depart­ment, but fortunately it was just a prair.'e fire and my ser\-ices were not required. 
AVe stopped at Mattoon and saw Paul Grant and his wife. He told me I had been roundly denounced as new class secretary* by the Heanc­berj^er. Grant, Monahan committee as a result of the slip-up which resulted in no news in the July issue of the .ALUMNUS. 
In Nashnlle, we had quite a visit wiih Fred Swint. Due to his wife and two cliildrcn being ill with severe strep infections, we did not get to see them. He sees **Red** Wells—the "Nash­«lle beer tycoon" frequently. "Red" happened to be in St. Louis at that time, and I certainly missed seeing the old flash of Badin Hall. How about a note one of these days, *'Rcd" ? Drop us a line. 
It is with deep regret that I received a letter from Mn< Ray Manix, informing of the death of her husband on June 3, 1951. Ray suffered a heart attack on May 2nd, and died at Wa>-nc Hospital nine day's later. Please remember him in your prayers. I have \\Titten Father Bourke Moisett, requesting Masses for Ray and Thaddeus GoukcH-ski, who died last August. Ray had been connected with the Manix Brothers Con­struction Company for the last eight years. He is surxived by his widow, Mar>-, and four children. 
Last Saturday, I attended the Purdue Game, and made a complete circuit of the stadium between halves. This was the first time that I failed to meet at least one of our classmates attending the game. I would like to have letters from any of you who have attended, or may attend the remaining games, giving news of any people you may or did run into. 
1932 
Jim Collins, Sccrctar>­
17 Triangle Avenue 
Dayton 9, Ohio 
Paul Bcldcn was at the SMU game \Wih his wife, and said he would be back for the reunion in the spring. 
Baden Powell writes: ''Regarding our reunion plans for next year, I*d like to suggest that we inrite Bishop Loras Lane to celebrate our class Mass, and have Father Paul HalUnan, Father Frank Gartland, C.S.C., and any other priests from our class on hand. 
"Had a swell letter from Bishop LorT>-a few da\*s ago commenting on a few \*ords he ivrotc in my 1932 DOME that I reminded him about. At that time he was president of the Iowa Club, and I was the V-P. He said something to the effect that he would like to have me as **\*ice-presideni of my future organization." As you probably know, he is now President of Loras College in Dubuque, so I wTote applying for the Job. He wrote that the job would be mine in a hurrv', but that I'd have to turn my collar arotmd. Unfortunately, Lucy did not take to the idea, so I declined. 
"Ed Mrfiren is publisher of *T^^-Time,* a local (Los Angeles) magazine for T\* \-iewers; and it's really a slick sheet, the best in Hollyxvood. 
*'Our anntial Sports Dinner out here is honor­ing the Silver Anniversary* of the So. Cal-UND ri\-alry, and will be quite an affair. One of 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
PAUL F. BERGER 
Mr. Paul F. Berger of Pasadena, California, and a member of die Glass of '20, is die first Westerner ever elect­ed national president of the Tax Exec­udves Institute, Inc. He was elected to this f>osition at the Institute's con­vention at Bretton Woods, N. H., Sep­embcr 13. 
The Institute is formed to encour­
age closer understanding between gov­
ernment and industrial-business tax 
officials on tax problems. 
Berger, tax specialist at Lockheed Aircraft Corp., is also chairman of the tax committees of the Aviation Indus­tries Association and Southern Cali­fornia Council of the California Chamber of Commerce. 
the highlights of the week will be a presentation of Rockne, the Man, on the Family Theatre, over the entire Mutual Broadcasting System. This was made possible by Father Pat Peyton, CS.C , *37, and Father Jerry Lanyer, CS.C , '35. Pat O^Brien will play the part of Rock. I think the Family Theatre should be given wider pub­licity because of the ND flavor of its programs and the excellent productions it presents. 
"Jerry Conw>-ay has moved his brain and type­writer to KNX-T\^ the CBS-TV outlet here, to publicize the goings on of CBS programs, and is doing a vcr\- nice job. 
"Ran into Bob Leppert and son a few weeks ago at Mass. Bob has not been too well lately but looked fine when I saw him. 
**Jack Werner is still in Japanese waters, and is carrying the burden of being promoted to Lt. Commander. Bcntle>' Ryan is busy at his law practice here, and, with Ben Salv-aty, Fat Locken, Bill Corr. Jack Naftzger. Leo Sclua­\-otte and Jack Skechan, is expected at our dinner." 
Word has been received that Frank J. Kellr, 438 S. River St., Wlkes-Barre, Pa., is in the .Army (Engineers) in Guam. 
That about does it for this issue. I'll sign off with another reminder of our class reunion coming this summer on June 6, 7, and 8. If there's any more suggestions like Badin Powdl't let's have them. And start making yoiur plans DOW for our twentieth. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. MOUiam T. Lyons, a daughter, Susan Theresa, August 8, in Atlanta, Ga. 
DEATHS 
Peter John TroUo, architect, died Sept. 29, 
1951, from a heart attack. Pete was a natii'e 
of Canton, Ohio, but had lived in Jackson, Miss., 
for the last ten years. He leaves his wife 
and one son. 
1933 
Jowph D. A. McCabe, Secretary 
Rosary College 
Jth-cr Forest, Illinau 
Joe Shecketski, former head coach and ath­
letic director at the University of Nevada, joined 
the New York Football Yanks as backfietd mentor 
August 17. 
From Brother Felix. CS.C , Holy Cross High 
School, Hashnabad P.O. Dacca Dt., Bengal, 
East Pakistan, India: "We appreciate getting the 
Notre Dame ALUMNUS over here because it 
tells us about the fine work which is being done 
by you men back home. Toupees off to you 
and all the men who are working so hard to 
make Our I.ady's school great . -. *' 
Grey Advertising Ageno', Inc., has announced 
the appointment of Cleve Carey as an ageno* 
executive, supervising national radio, magazine 
and newspaper, as well as local, advertising for 
four chains of Rexall Drugs. The appointment 
was effective Sept. 17. 
Rev. Maurice £. Powers, CS.C, has been as­signed as Chief Chaplain of the Central Com­mand in Yokohama, Japan, according to word received at the University. 
1935 
Franklyn C Hochreiter, Secretary 
1327 Pcnt«-ood Road 
Baltnoore 12, Maryland 
Here we are again fellas, and there is .\B« SOLUTELY nothing to report from the mails, as no mail arrived since our last trip in press. "Wha* hoppen"? Of course we could tell a few stories or make up some tales about you, but that would only cost the Alumni Office newsprint, and wouldn't be particularly in> formative. 
Our one saKation was the Na w weekend here in Baltimore, when at least five of our mob came to town. We can't tell you about more because we didn't see any others that we recall, Charlie Bragg and Arnold Morrison called us at home when they got in, and then participated in the festirities. Your scribe and Mrs. Hoch ha^ipened to be together for a few moments at the Cocktail Party, and met Mama Bragg. (In­cidentally, Charlie, that was one of the few moments we saw the other half of our family over the weekend.) 
Arnold didn't think we would recognize him when we bumped into occ another at the Rally on Friday ntght. Except for a little more Weight, there was no change. That Bragg man, however, lost some hair, we think. 
Joe Conloa didn't miss a trick over the tvcek­end. Our only regret is that we sa\%* him each time on the run. Wish we could at least have had a full drink together, Joe. Physical change on Conlon—distinctive gre)' hair! Hope you fellas had a big time in Baltimore. We saw Ned Rowan at the Rally, but had no chance to speak to him; and candidate Jack DufTey flew over for a quick "hello.*' Hope all *35crs vote for Jack for the Alumni Board. 
Frank O'Brien, '34, collared us after the Cock­tail Party and passed on some nice words about the '35 column, which we very much appreciated. We didn't know we had any readers outside our own class who would bother to read our dribble. (Mansfield, let's combine our work!) 
We wonder if a lot of other '35ers came to the game who didn't show up at either the Rally or Cocktail Party. Frank Holahan had us re»cr\-c nM>ms for him \%eeks in adx^ance, and then never turned up. 
From our own Baltimore crowd there was only Itoy Scbolz from <nir class around at the parties. Bob Barry hasn't attended one of our affairs in 

years. Incidental]}'* Bf>b \vas married about a year ago. We had hoped that might get him out. Gcite O'Brien was likewise conspicuous in his absence, though we understand he did some private entertaining at his home Saturday night. Roy, the last time we saw him at tiiK Cocktaii Party was drumming up trade for a party at his home. We wonder if BiU Coyne, '27, et al, made it? You all remember Bill—he and wife, Eleanor, and son, ^lichael, came over for the game. Bill is now with the Housing and Home Finance Agency in Washington, and is fatter than wheti we last saw him. That means he and your scribe are similar in two regards—frequency­of job changes and over-all weight. 
That's it, gang! How about a few letters so we can keep this bi-monthly stint alive? 
MARRI.\GES Thomas S .Welch to Margaret Veronica Har­rington, October 6, at Notre Dame, Indiana. BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. John L. Murphy, a daughter, Anne, on August 23. 
1936 
A. H- "Lee" Moorman, Jr., Secretar>­170B Industrial Bank Building Detroit 26, Michigan 
The new sccrelar>' has received many con­
gratulatory letters from his classmates on his 
**election.'* One of the nicest, a postcard, 
came from Joe McMahon. Friend Joe stated: 
" . . . It was a frame, and I am changing 
to the Class of 1937." Joe is the FBI repre­
sentative of Chicago, Illinois. 
*'Ken" Lau's sent in a nice letter, and has 
promised to help out frequently. He asked 
about Fred Cox, whom he hasn't seen since com­
pletion of their training at Northwestern Medical; 
also about Ed Daley, reported practicing in 
Oldenburg, Indiana; lindell Ktnman, Bill White 
and Bill MacDonald, practicing in St. Louis; 
and about Ed Owens, who, according to informa­
tion available, is residing in Denver, Colorado. 
Ken's address is 501 Lafayette-Life Building, 
Lafayette, Indiana. 
Local experts credit Earl **Dutch** Clark and **WaIIy" Frombart with a splendid coaching and rebuilding job at the University of Detroit. The Detroit-Notrc Dame game attracted a 56,000 capacity crowd. Father John Cavanaugfa was the honored guest at a pre-game reception at the Detroit Athletic Club arranged by co-chair­men Hugh Dean and Art Crontn. On hand to meet Father Cavanaugh, and perhaps talk the President out of a couple of Michigan Statc-Notre Dame tickets, were Detroit's civic and busi­ness leaders. Among those who came to Detroit for the game were Ed Dunn, Luke Teiman, Art Mulholland, John Cackley and John Bums. 
Adelbcrt **Bert" Baur has been promoted to Eastern Division General Sales Manager for the Uarco Corporation. Bert takes on his new job in January and will be located in Danbur>-, Connecticut. The word is that he has purchased a 250-acre estate with a manor house and sev­eral outhouses. All members of the class arc invited to visit him at their earliest convenience. Jim Sherry, Art Cronin and Gene Tobin ''re­laxed" this summer for 10 days on the S.S. Sykes, the largest ore carrier on the Great Lakes. The sailor boys reported that, in addition to iron, the Sykes was well loaded with corn, r>'c and vermouth ore. 
Bob Ervin, the Assistant Director of LOBUND, Notre Dame, Indiana, and your Secretary- are asking for the cooperation of the class in order to establish a Mass Fund for class members, their families and friends; to stimulate interest in keeping abreast of members' activities; and to start planning for a banner turnout for the Twenty-Year Reunion. As those who attended the reunion know. Bob Ervin is the one pri­marily responsible for arranging the Friday e%'c­ning buffet and the Saturday luncheon. Handling the details meant a lot of work and worr>' and deprived Bob of a lot of time he should have had to spend with his friends. This op­portunity is being taken, on behalf of the entire class, to thank Bob for his contribution which helped so materially to make the reunion an outstanding success for those who attended. 
Belated reunion notes collected by Dr. **Leo" Hofshneider: Gcoi^e Miller, Penn. North Dakota, is the father of five children, and, in addition to such duties, is also the Superintendent of Schools. George would like to hear from Joe Mansfield. Larry PalkoWc, looking just the 
November-December, 1951 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JOHN A. SCOTT 

Congratulations are in order for John A. Scott, '38, of South Bend, Ind., upon his election as Mayor in that city. Mayor Scott, the Republican nominee, came out on top in the elec­tion of Nov. 6. His term of office will commence on January 1, 1952. Scott won in a very close race over George 
A. Schock, '18, the Democratic in­cumbent. 
Scott originally came from Bantam, Conn., and West Sand Lake, N. Y., but moved to South Bend in 1928. There he attended Central High School and received from Notre Dame a degree of bachelor of arts. 
He served for five years as a Marine in World War II, and for a year in the present war. He has been public rela­tions director of the South Bend city schools, and personnel director of the 
Tribune, 
Scott was named Man of the Year in 1949 by the South Bend Junior As­sociation of Commerce. He has been active in many and varied local and national organizations. Some of these are the Elks, Sojourners, American Legion, Masons, Marine Corps League, Parent - Teacher Association, Boy Scouts and the Notre Dame Club of St. Joe Valley. 
Scott is married and the father of two daughters. 
same, is a grocery store owner in Johnston, New York. Leo McFarlaae, Lansing, Mich^an, is with the Oldsmobtle Division, Geaaal Motors Corporation. "Woody" Stillwaisoa is the Per­sonnel and Labor Relations Director of Shelfaner Corporation, Mount Vernon, Ohio. "Ciwii ** Byrne, who has turned out to be quite a golf player, is teaching Accounting at ViUanovm College. Leoa Hi^nagd is an architect in Clarion, Pennsylvania. Jeny Vogd has two children and is the otvner of a theater in South Bend, Indiana. Frank Kopciak is coaching St. Rita High School in Chicago, Illinois. Al Kolkn is a Director of Research of the Ethyl Corpon:* tion, Detroit, Michigan. Fred and Loots Gafatid are practicing medicine: Fred in Erie, and Louu in Eldred, Pennsylvania. 
Independent Pneumatic Tool Co., Aurora, lUi­nois, announces that WiUbm V. "Bill" Shake­speare has been appointed sales manager of the export division of the comfiany. Shakespeare has been connected with this company since his graduation from ND. He has traveled for the company as an Export Field Engineer throughout Latin America, North Africa and the Middle East. As Export Sales ^fanagcr. Bill will supers \-isc all Thor export branches and subsidiaries in England, Belgium, South America, South .Africa, and Mexico. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. William L. Jacobs, Jr., a daugh­ter, Barbara, Oct. 5, 1951. Mr. and Mrs. John Luidcr Thro, a son, Octboer 11, 1951. 
1937 
Frank J. Rcilly, Secretary 
7 Hawtliome Ave. 
Merrick, New York 
Capt. Ed Fucker, late of the U. 5. Army (HG, 3th Army, Chicago} is back on the "Call Me Mister" status after a tour of reserve duty as a Public Information Officer in Chicago. Ed, an assistant professor of Journalism at the Uni­versity, got a bruising sendofF from the U. S. Army on Oct. 19, when an Army car he was riding in clipped off a furlong or so of guard rails along Chicago's Outer Drive. 
The car was wrecked, and so was Ed's right wrist; but nobody had such profuse medical at­tention, and immediately. 
Directly behind Ed's sedan was a busload of Army surgeons who gave him several hundred dollars worth of medical counsel right on the spot. Before an ambulance was even thought of, C^t . Ed thought he was in the midst of a medical convention. 
Our fifteen-year reunion will be held this sum­mer on June 6, 7, and 8. We'll have to make it a bang-up affair with 100 per cent attendance. There will be more news on it later, but right now we must form committees and get some plans. If there are any suggestions, send them in. And especially, start making your plans now to attend. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. James H. Levi, a daughter, 
Martha Jean, -Aug. 22. 
1938 
Charles M. CallnhaHj Secntary 
Sportt PublidtT Dcpartmait 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
MARRUGES 

Caxletoa G. Maolaagald to Miss Catherine 
E. Moran, Sept. 21, at Notre Dame. BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas M. Fiogerald, Jr., a son, Thomas II, Sept. 27, 
1939 
Vince DeCoursey, Secretary 
1917 Elizabeth 
Kansas City 2, Kansas 
Your scribe's report is a little short as we have been a little more busy than usual with the confusion attending our fifth boy who ar­rived home last week and has demanded no little attention—mmtly keeping the four older ones from playing football uith him. 
Have had a couple letters from Didt AmUm; so far the only class officer to come through. Dick's third girl arrived in October to keep his only boy company. 
Father Keller addressed a local manufacturers 
association meeting and made a most lavorablc 
impression for the University. 
During the Kansas Cit>' flood, Dave Mcskill 
was between planes and gave me a ring. It 
being impossible to cross what was then laugh­
ingly referred to as a river, we couldn't get to­
gether, but he passed on tlic interesting infor­
mation that Don O'Afelia had his seventh on 
the tvay. Dave is sales manager of G.E. Fan 
DiWsion. 
Sa\*' Frank Parks* name in the Dair>- Record as one of the incorporators of a new dairy firm in Rice Lake, Wisconsin, and he replied to my note, congratulating him on leaving the evil of law and embracing a nice clean field in dair\-ing, in most insulting terms. This is tlie first year *vc hai'cn't seen Frank at one of the games, and it's my fault; he said he had some refreshment ready at the Southern Methodist affair, 
Jim Gillis, '51, passed through here on his way to California. Jim played ball Avitli the Salina (Kansas) Western League team last sum­mer, but was looking for another location when I talked to him. 
From Hou-ard L. Lardie: "I'm jusl about the same except, like evcrv'one else, getting older. My family has been well and growing. Bill, my boy, is now eight years old, and it won't be long until he'll be ready for college. Give my regards to Bob Cahill, Herb Jones and Co. .. . 1 hope to be back for my I5th reunion in 1954." 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Gerend, Patricia Louise, Aug. 28, 1951. Mr. and Mrs. Edward K. Grimes, Sue Ann, Sept. 4, 1951. 
1940 
Richard Burke, Secretary 
14C Paxton Drive 
South Bend, Indiana 
MARRIAGES 
Dr. Thomas A. LeStrange, to Adelaide Mc-Glenn, Oct. 27, Upper Darby, Pa. Henrj- X. Rogers, to Helen Cashman, in Chicago. 
1941 
John W. Patterson, Jr., Sccretar)­
S330 Darlington Road 
Pittsburgh, Penns>I\'aliia 
Dr. Walter J. Srennan, Jr., Petersburg, Va., IS in the Army. 
DEATH 
Ed»-ard C. ilcHugh, Jr., died Sunday, Sept. 30, at Pittsburgh Hospital. He was a former president of the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh. Among his survivors are his wife, Beverly and two children, Edward C , III, and Albert J. 
1942 
William E. Scanlon, Secretar%­
400 E. Ulth Street 
Chicago 28, Illinois 
To Jim Armstrong: 
. . . Beginning January- first we are making our final move. I've taken a position with the Colorado Springs Medical Center, in Colorado Springs, and ^vill do Pediatrics. Rita and I have adopted twin girls ... " Sincerely, Dom Judge, M.D., Mayo Clinic, Roclicster, Minnesota. 
James F. AfcVay advises the Alumni Office he has moved to 4 Xookside Lane, Bradford, Pa. They also have a son, Patrick Kevin, born on Sept. 18. 
That's all the BCWS for lliis issue, but there is plenty our class must do. Our n-union will be held this summer on June 6, 7, ^nd 3. There will be lots more words on everytliing later, but now^ we have to start forming committees and making lots of plans. If you have any ideas send them in. Especially start making your pbns now to attend this, our tenth year get-together. 
DEATHS Joseph B. McKcrtfaney died Oct. 30, 1951, at Tacoma, Washington. 
1943 
Jack Wi^ins, Secretary 
11404 Ruplcy Lane 
Dallas 14, Texas 
The football season has brought its usual higher return in the class correspondence, so let's get right to the letters- First, in answer to a pica to Frank Ebner to mail the column a report on the Detroit game, I was the recipient of a news­paper clipping from the Detroit Free Press which described tlie wedding of Frank to Dorothy Frances Mace on October 6, the day after the Detroit game. Frank and his bride honejTnooncd in Washington and Virginia. 
The next item received was a press release from the ^Vage Stabilization Board in Chicago. It read: ''Appointment of Ray J. Schoonhoven as cliicf rulings and opinions attorney for the Wage Stabilization Board at Chicago was announced by Samuel Edes, Regional Director. 
"He will head a stafT of attorneys who will interpret the wage stabilisation laws and regu­lations as the>' apply to wage increase 4DpIici*ions of employers in Illinois, Indiana, and Wisconsin. 
"Sclioonhoven comes to Chicago WSB from Sey­farth, Shaw, and Fairwcathcr, 231 S. LaSalle St., a law firm specializing in labor relafion*;.'* 
From Bill Middendorf comes a review of the SMU game. "Went to the SMU game (ugh!) and sau* quite a £cw of the 1943 hoys, plus otiicrs, \Vent with. Earl Englert to the Oliver before the game; it was full of the Texas crowd—10-gaIIon hats and all. Ran into John Scherer there. 
'*On campus I saw Bill Johnson and Don Kutz. Outside Gate 14, I saw Jack H\-nes, now a First Looie in tlic Air Force. Dick Docrmer and Artie Huffman, both Fort ^Va^^le bo>-s, came over for the game- Next, I ran into Frazilc Kaiser, ^^-hosc wife Jane was home with their second son, born recently. Frank said that Bill Wamick was somewhere on campus, but I missed him. Frank said that he had seen Charlie O'Leary at the Indiana game. Jack Ries and his wife were up' from Indianapolis; Jack is now with Philco. Jim Delaney and Clay Lambert were there, as was Dick Crcevy. Mr. and Mrs. Leo Lewis up from St. Louis witli the news that Leo is now a banker ^rith the Alcrcantile Trust Company there. 
Sam Molter (the legal eagle) still practices in Goodland, Indiana, and I wish he'd drive up to Fort IVajTie sometime for a visit. At a recent meeting of our ND Club. I talked with Ed Hoch, Bob O'Rielly, and Jim Pointsatte—all *43 boys. 
Had a happy coincidence the day after the SMU game: From a distance on campus I spotted Bill Tracy of New York, but didn*t get a chance to speak. On Sunday I went to our comer ice cream store in Fort Wayne, and in walked Bill. We had a brief but enjo>-ab/e cliat ... " 
Bill Middendorf then went into the conversa­tion he and Bill Tracy had about the game, and some of the classmates. Since Bill Tracy has obliged with a letter this month, we'll lateral the ball to him from Middendorf: 
Tracy writes: "I took time out frum ^ny duties with the FBI in New York to attend the NI>­SMU game. TIic game was interesting, although 
the outcome ^vas grim. I ran into Jim DeJaoey 
in South Bend, and the old shot putter and I had a nice chat. I believe Jim said he was living in Grand Rapids, Micliigan. My trip was a hurried one, but I did see Ed Oitroski and George Sobek. I met Bill Middendorf in Fort \Vayne on my way home to New York. Bill looked great; he is with Burroughs. He Is the father of four children. 
"On my last visit to Notre Dame, in June, I had a long chat with Ed Krausc, and I spoke briefly with Frank Leahy. 
My brother, Joe, intends to take the step on December 29 here in New York. His intended is Rosemary Guiney, a Mt. St. Vincent gal. Jim Godfrey is flying in from St. Louis to be in the wedding party. Joe continues to do well in the law business. Joe, Frank Kiinke], and I in­tend to take in the Xa\*>' game at Baltimore. I hope to see some of the boys do\vn in Bal­timore." 
Bill, wc hope that you will send another report after the Na\y game. 
I had a note from Brother Pat, the rector of Brownson in our days. He is now at St. Edward's University in Austin, Texas. You can reach him: Brother Patrick Cain, C.S.C., St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas. It appears as if all these Yankees infiltrating into Texas might be able to re-enter the Republic of Texas into the Union some day! 
DIED 
FATHER SCHULTE, CS.C. 
Rev. Frederick J. Schulte, c.s.c, class of '27, succumbed to a lengthy illness on October 3. 
Bom in Detroit, Michigan, Sept. 10, 1902, Father Schulte entered the con­gregation in 1919 and was ordained in 1931. From 1931 until 1946 he was a member' of the Holy Cross mission band. He was pastor of Holy Cross Church in South Bend from 1946 until last July. 
To the surviving members of his family, to the members of his parish, and to the many friends who knew and loved Father Schulte, the ALUM­NUS offers its deepest sympathy. 
Bill Middendorf (2305 Wcstbroolt Drive, Fort Wayne, Indiana) would like to Icnou- the x%'hcre­abouts of George "Rode" McQuiston. He tliinks Hans Hdland might be able to help him out. If sOf Hans, drop Bill a postcard. 
First Lt. Robert T. Mumane, formerly a mem­ber of the staff of ift. Cannel Hospital, Colum­bus, has assumed his duties as an internist at the Air Force Hospital at St. John's, Newfound­land, according to a news release from Pcppcrrell Air Force Base. 
MARRIAGES 
William R. Mahon to Margaret Mar>- Boyle, July 7, Bayonne, New Jersey. Charfea V. Kralovec to Rosemary White, Sept. 15, LaGrange, Illinois. 
BIRTHS Mr, and Mrs. Joseph £. Jacob, Stephen, Oct. 27. Mr. and Mrs. E. Bruce Kunkel, Martha, Oct. 14. 

1944 
Gcorgo A. Barisctllo, Jr., Secretary 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, New Jersey 
Last issue's deadline had just passed wlicn Bob ("\VND") Martina's welcome report air­mailed in to your secretary, so we'll head off the column with Bob's remarks: "The list t'mc you saw me and vice versa, was in Alumni Hall in the Fall of 1948. You met my wife-to-be then, only you didn't know it at that time. She is now my wife, the former Pauline Dougherty, ex-Navy flight-nurse. \Vc have an addition to the family, namely Robert John 11 who is now 20 months old and doing fine. We ^i•^iv•cd at NAS Barbers Point, T. H., on July 23 ^f this year for a tour of duty. I am assigned ^o GCA Unit 22 aboard the Air Station. We cnme from Washington, D. C., where we spent about 3 years. I was assigned to the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. 
"During the past two years I have heard from George Charters who lives in Oregon. I don't have his exact address with me, but for the moment Oregon is good enough. I also had a letter from Ed Sochalski, "Sock," as he is better known. He has an addition to his family, and has taken over his father's !iusirtcss. His father has been deceased for over two years. I haven't heard from John Beycrle for some time. Wc invited him down to Washington, D. C , last year, but he didn't make it. He said He was about to buy a car and take a trip east. I don't know where he is at present, hut if you contact him in any way, tell him Ii? owes mc a letter. I haven't heard from Dan Tomcik for some time; he has a boy now, and I b.;!ieve that he lives in South Bend. 
"I have ox^cr seven years in the Xa\'y new. and just recently received a promotion to full Lieut.; railroad tracks to you. As yet I don't know if 1 will make the Na\y my career or not; I am still in the reser\'es. I have more or less followed the lines of radio to some extent. This GCA outfit is a radio-radar device for talking down pilots to a landing during instru­ment .weather conditions. I am a final controller and maintenance oflicer. I have been in this business for about six years now. 
"I saw Vail Pischke in Washington. D. C, about a year or so ago. He was working as a radio law>er. He lived in Washington .hen. Saw Ed Walters at Annapolis in May, '49. ITe was prof of math there at the Academy. Ho has a youngster—maybe two or throe b / now. If and when you see any of the boys, please give them my best." 
Carroll Hall-ites, and the many Brothers of Holy Cross who were classmates of ours, will be especially pleased to read the in for.-? it in t» me— sage Brother Roman, C.S.C., passes alon;^: "Tn the September-October, 1951, issue of the ALUM­NUS, I think that your statement, namely: "Re­member, that just as you enjoy reading about what your ND mates are doing, they like hear­ing about you . . . ' should be written at the top of every page of the ALUMNUS—for that is vcr>* true. So to prove to you that I'm taking your plea seriously—here arc a few bits of information on '44crs that I'm pu-are of. 
*'Thi3 summer—as in past summers—the Brtth­ers of Holy Cross from the Notre Dame. Indiana ProWdcnce, conducted a summer camp for boys, called 'Notre Dame Camp,' at Bankson Lake, Lawton. Michigan. At the time I did njt realize it—but after glancing over our Class of '44 name list—I now know that tne Class was well represented during the past summer on the Staff of ND Camp. It Included ilie fnjlowing 
C.S.C.
 Brothers: Anton (now tciching at Holy Cross High School, New Orleans, La.); I'rancis Regis (now at Notre Dame H. S., West Haven, Conn.); Gerontius (Principal of Central Catliolic 

H.
 S., Monroe, Mich.); Roman (at prcycnt teaching at Holy Trinity H. S., Chicago, 111.); Wtlbert (now teaching at Vinccntian Enstitutc, Albany, N. Y.); and Ellis (Principal of Mt. Carmcl H. S., Bronx, N. Y.). 


"Other CS.C. Brothers of the Class of M4 and their places of emplo^-ment are: Adrian (St. Anthony H. S., Long Beach, Calif.): Andre (Holy Trinity H. S., Chicago, III.); Benignui (Gilmoiir Academy. Gates Afills, Ohio); Cyriac (St. Anthony H. S., Long Beach, Calif.); Eudes (Monsignor Coylc H. S., Taunton, Mass.); £\'an (Community Infirmary, Notre Dame, Ind.]; John (Reitz Memorial H. S., E\-ansvilIe, Ind.); LeoD> ard (Holy Trinity H. S., Chicago, 111.); Pascal (Cathedral H. S., Indianapolis, Ind.); and Armel (Principal, St. Thomas School, Brooklyn, N. Y.). 
"I'm sure that only a few members of the ND Chicago Alumni group know or realize the fact that Holy Trinity Parish and High School are staffed almost entirely by C.S.C. men and Notre Dame graduates. TTiis is the only parish and high school in Chicagoland that can make that boast. The pastor of the parish is Rev. S. r. Liscwski, C.S.C, former professor of philosophy at ND. Tlie high school staff is headed by Brother Reginald, CS.C , former leadier ol Math, at our Alma Mater. A Notre Dame football great—Ste\'e Juzwik, '41—is the head coach of the Holy Trinity H. S. football pro­gram. His chief scout is Steve Kndlacz, *43. 
"Looking over the list of personalities in the Class of *44—I'm curious to know what some of the following inhabitants of (\nsitors to) old Carroll Hall are now doing, and they are: Nick Amato, Afatt Bolger, Orlando BoniccUi, Tom Brennan, Kelly Cook, Jim Cunnmgfaam, C>-riI Dcsmet, Ed (*Ace Photographer') DrinkaH, Bob (*Acc basketball player') Fau^t, James Joyce, Creighton Miller, Johnny Morrtson, Ed Nugent, Larry Schatzlein, Frank Stiunpf, Omer Sturm, Frank Vignola, Norbcrt WIeklinski, Harry Yeatcs, and others. (Ed. Note: Aforemen­tioned gentlemen, please take note and oblige your scribe with status reports). I hope these gentlemen of the Class of '44 and others co­operate with you to make your column in each issue of the ALUMNUS not only the longest, but also, the most interesting and jam-packed with news and briefs. It is the column of the CLASS of 1944—and as I often tell my stu­dents: *It is up to you to toot your own horn •—don't expect others to toot it for you!*" 
Many thanks to Brother Roman for takint; time from his busy schedule to enlighten us. Trust his closing words will not be taken lightly. Don't freeze me out in Jan. & Feb., men. Earnestly need and appreciate your "co­op"; so WRITE! 
Rev. Donald (John) Baydik, O.S.B., stnds along his best regards to all *44ers and advises: "Last August iiflh, my Abbot appointed me as an assistant at St. Andrew's church here in Cleveland (1447 East 51st St.). .And the rec­tory here has two guest rooms. So, if you or any of the other 1944 boys ever stop m Cleve­land do not hesitate to drop in and share some Benedictine hospitality. The telephone numbef is HEnderson 1-2057." 
FACTS, NOT FICTION . . . John Beyerle was married Sept. 15 to Eleanor Emily Gutsky at Blessed Sacrament Church, Cleveland. . . . Jack and Gloria McKenna are the parents of John Timothy, born Sept. 26. . . . Rev. Law­rence Broughal, CS.C , is now at Princeton Univ., chaplain at Our Lady of Princeton ivhcre ND student priests taking special courses at the I\*y League school reside. . . . '*Class Secretary Emeritus" Bill Talbot, whose title is now Editor at Samuel French (play-publishing house in 
N. Y.) was introduced to the Jersey Shore re­cently when he visited your secretary. . , . Credit for fathering the following info belongs to said Bill Talbot: 
**At the NY Club meeting in September: Jim Gibbons, John Murphy, Jim Brady, Joe Gal* l;^hcr, Danny Stevens, Andy Barfoiere, BDI Rog­ers, Jack Sulli\-an, Bill O'Connor, John Duffy, Weaker Donnelly (*Bud'), Bill Talbot. About 8 of the lads had dinner together before the meeting. Richard Sulli\'an, English prof, who attended the meeting to describe his new book, *Notre Dame,* sat with the horde of '44. Jack Zilly spoke a fciv it-ords at the behest o[ Jack Lavelle, toastmaster and raconteur of renown. . . . Bill Tully was eliminated in the national tennis championships at Forest Hills by Gardner Malloy, 6-3, 6-1, 8-6. Bill is one of the first ten ranking players in the cast. Incidentally. TuUy is the father of Bill, Jr., who checked in not too many weeks ago. . . . Jack Heriihy is with an advertising firm in N. Y., and going places. . . . John Duffy reports his boy, Pat­rick, was seven full months old in September, and that both Bob and Dan Casey, Jersey Side, have young'uns now a year old. . . . Also that Larry Schatzlein has reentered the Navy, and is now with an intelligence outfit in Japan. . . . 
Also that nobody has seen hide nor hair of George (Jim) Sullivan since his marriage. . . . Nor of Eddie DowHng for the past nine months. . . . Ed Meagher is on the editorial staff of 'Commonweal'." 
Your secretary was pleased to have atttnded in September the Notre Dame Law Asjiiciation Annual Luncheon in conjunction with the Amer­ican Bar Association Convention. This year the luncheon-meeting was at the Biltmore in N. Y. and honored guest and speaker was Cardmal SpeUman. The University was well-tcpresrntedr 
Fathers On*oale, Kenna, and Hcsbor^; Dtan 
Manioa and Bob SnUinui, Law School prof. 
Joe Gallagher was there, too! 
The column is seasoned with an iciemational 
flavor as Dick "Cactus" Ltoa fills us in with 
N D news beyond the Rio Grande: "Was pleased 
to see that my little boy got his first 'blow* 
from the N D ALUMNUS. Little Tommy ts 
now three months old and will be started OD 
music lessons (how to sing the *^ctory March") 
shortly. 
Some news from Mexico City Notre Dameis— 
Hafry "Red" Sullivan, originally from N. Y., 
has been living down here for three years, mar­
ried Mary Jane McGrath of Boston two and a 
half years ago; they are expecting a bahy in 
December. . . . Dick Bernard, '46, manned and 
has a little girl. . . . Oscar Gaxza, '27, Leon, 
Gto. (that's up north from here) plana to 
attend his 25th reunion (secty. of '27 t^ c note). 
. . . Met an ND of the class of *50 the other 
day. ^uil Bush, I believe his name is—very nice 
guy. . . . Certainly get a kick out of reading 
the column you write and would appreciate news 
of Frank "Happy" Groves, Tommv *Tex" Sh^­
nayder. Fete AJibau^, Dick Vanderwe^jcn, fat 
Brennan, Andy Murphy, and the other Breen* 
Phillips boys of 1940-41. . . . Harry Newmn;, 
'15, sends his regards to his classmates." 
"Cactus" and your secty. met in Manila in 
1945 and along with other NT) men of rcr-ent 
and not-so-recent vintage were royally feted by 
the ND Club of Manila, an experience that win 
never be forgotten, and just one more manifes­
tatlon of that intangible **$omcthing" that binds 
together the Notre Dame Family, irrespective of 
race, creed, color, or era. 
As sleigh bells begin and Christraxs card 
jingles start jingling. Bill Talbot rings the bell 
with this pre-reunion jingle: 
"Back for more 
In fifty-four!" 
Signed, 
The horde of Forty-four. 

Your scribe wishes YOU and YOURS a very 
joyous Christmas and New Year and hopes each 
'44er resolves to lighten this writer's column 
chores with at least one message in the rew 
year! 
Signed, Christmas-scaled, and delivered, 
George 

According to a press telcase received at the 
Uni\*crsity, PWEp E. Ryan, of Arlington. Va., 
sailed from Germany for New York. With him 
arc hts wife, two children and niDther-in-law. 
Phil had been in Germany three years. 
Wniiam E. Ross has been appointed staff as­
sistant to the Vice-President in .'harj; of RCA 
Victor's Consumer Products, Camden, Neiv Jersey. 
Joe Christen, '44, writes from Pittsburgh that 
he has recently accepted a position with the 
Lummus Company in New York City. 
MARRIAGES Jame George Sullivan to Miriam Anne Robin­son, July 7 at Ridgcwood, N. J. 
1945 
AI Lesmez, Secretary 
61-56 S2nd Street 
Elmhurst, L. I., N. Y. 
"PEACE ON EARTH TO MEN OF GOOD WILL' 

Another year has passed and ^ain the Yule­tide Season is with us. A Merry Merry Christ­mas • to all you happy gentlemen of the cla^; greetings to your families and loved ones. May the coming year bring health and success to all Notre Dame men, csperially to the men of the class of *45. To all of VOU, from your secre­tary, a sincere wish for a New Year filled with real contentment, peace, and personal happio'ss. 
DID YOU KNOW THAT . . . 

Doctor William E. Castle is a Dentist in Lockport, N. Y. . . . that he aid his wife. Jean, are parents of Afary Beth (4) and Mic-i.-ic] 
(2) . . . that Bill spent fo<tr years at Mar­quette Dental School and ovo years on Gnam with the Navy .. . that last year's Michigan State football game saw Bill visifing the r:impus . . . that Jerome F. Cordes is an insxructor in the Department of Internal Medicine at the University Hospital, Ann Axbor, Miciiigan . . . that Jerome, who is still as single as a dollar, was surprise! to see the new Farley hall, and to find Brownson and Carroll Halls non-existent (Jerry actually belonged with the class of 'tS 
but since he received his degree in 1&45 we're ha^py to have him as oue of the honored members!!) . . . that I^rr^' Madigan, '49, who ^v'orks in my group at the Spcn->' Gyroscope Company in Great Neck, has been sent to Boston on a temporar\' assignment of two or three months . . . that he joined Spcrry's a year ago and is doing technical engiucering WTiting, preparing Air Force manuals on secret or classified projects . . . that another ND man who has joined the Sperr>' roster is big John Wiethoff, '44 . . . that John is in the Engine Analyzer engineering group . . . that Doctor Gerald £. GosgrmT is a practicing physician in KJamath Falls, Oregon . . . that he and his wife, Marion, are proud parents of Nanc>* (5), David (3), and Mary (1) . . . that Gerr>- was back to ND several times to visit relatives in South Bend . . . that even though Gerr>- was orig'nally of the '42 class, we're proud to have him in '45 since that was . when he received his degree . . . that the facts YOU >cnd in for this section will be appreciated. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMEXT From Dave Condon: "I returned to the Chicago Tribune sfter being on a leave of absence from April Jfi}9 to April 1950, during .(Inch Ontc 1 was in New Mexico. WTiile cut thsre I saw 5am Adelo, class of '45, at Pecos. He has iMcn teaching at Northwestern and was in Pecos for the summer. Met Joe Chandler Ryan in A Ibu­querquc where he is practicing law and where Bruce Hebenstreit, '42, is making a big vzmc as a contractor (he has put up several housing additions): Was at the district basketball tour­nament in Las Vegas when I bumped into Alfred Ortiz, '44, who had come over to cheer for Santa Fe. 
"Around Chicago, I generally sec *Scoop' 

Scanlau. I talked to my old pals, Bill Brown 
and Ffank Kent (Frank roomed with me) re­
cently, but haven't seen them. Got a soda 
out at Zig^c Czarobslu*s one night, and we 
spent the evening cutting up old touches. Un­
fortunately, I weigh as much as Ziggie. .. . It 
really is good to read the .ALUMNUS and sec 
how many ND fellows arc doing well. Hope that 
you are haring lots of luck, pal, and keep up 
the good work.** (Dave is happily married, and 
he and his wi/c, Patricia, are proud ^fama and 
Papa to Kathleen (2/2) and Barbara (1). He <an be reached at the Chicago Tribune, Chi­cago, III. Good luck to you, Dave!!) From Thomas W, Kane, Jr.: 
"Emaiitt Jennings was in New York for the "World Series last year, combining the trip with a honeymoon. His charming wife, Laura, hails from Los Angeles where 'Em* met her while resident physician at Queen of Angels hospital there. On their trip eastward, the>- stopped in Lansing, Michigan, to \Tsit Emmitt*s old roommate, Dick Borgess, '43, and his wife. Dick's home had been in Tol>?do and later in Chicago (while he worked for Haskins & Sells). Enmiitt has letumed to his home town cf Tucumcari, New Mexico, \vhere he has started general practice. 
"Austin Sharp, *44, has completed Medical School at St. Louis University-. When last heard of, he was doing intern work tharc, and until last October he was still in St. i.ouis. 
**Enue Rausdier is now married and livmg in Alhvood (Clifton) about eight blocks away from my garden apartment. According to the 'Brewer*s Digest,' John Koch, ex '42, is nn^v Vice-President, Treasurer, and Advertising Man­ager of Koch*s Brewery in Dunkirk, New Ycrk. The following are still >v'orking for Haskins and Sells (auditors) in New York: 
At the Broad Street office is Tom Hogan, '39; Jim Mahar, *43; Andy McEIroy, '43; Jack Ford, '47; and myself. George Bums is at the Park Avenue office." 
FLASH 

Thomas B. Hogan, *39, was made a partner in Haskins and Sells effective June 1, 1951. His r^id rise to partnership level in tivelve short years h a near-record. Dean McCarthy will be happy to hear this neu-s!! (C.P.A. Tom Kane is married and the father of Thomas III (4^^), and Robert Bernard iV/3), He is an auditor with the firm of Haskins and Sells, and he and his wife, Mary, are living at 50-C Addtson Place, Clifton, New Jersey). From J. Edward Faust, Jr.: 
"I am really <iuitc sorry T haven't wTitten sooner. My office and domestic duties have kept me quite busy this winter. As for my business activities, I am now helping to set up a Group Insurance Department for one of the fastest growing multiple insurance companies in the 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
DAVE HOLMAN 
U. S. Navy Photo 

C. D. (Dave) Holmaiij Jr., class of '40, was sworn in to the rank of Lieu­tenant Commanderj USNRj by the Commandant of the Thirteenth Naval District at a recent ceremony. Lieu­tenant Commander Holman is on ac­tive dut>' in the Public Information Office of that Naval District 
Prior to his call to active military service, the Lieutenant Commander was on the advertising department of the Portland Oregonian, Portland, Or­egon. He formerly lived in Leaven­worthj Kansas, starting in newspaper work on the Leavenworth Times, 
Lieutenant Commander Holman and family now make Portland, Ore­gon their official residence. 
countr>', I have just recently acquired my second child—a very nice little girl. I hope to be able to see a football game this Fall. How about a game with Ohio State, then you could come and stay with us over the \veckend. Many pardons again for not wTiting sooner." Thank you very much for the invitation, Ed, but it doesn't look right now as if wc will travel out Ohio way this Fall. IVarmcst regards to your wife Kathleen and the two children, Joseph Fenton (214) and Deborah Marie (I'/a). Good luck with Farm Bureaus Insurance Company. From Father Mark McGrath, C.S.C.: 
"Your letter was very welcome. I saw your mention of me in your column, and appreciated a gratitude still retained for a small favor done so long ago. 
"l will be in Rome from October on, and w-Titc me the date of your stay in Rome I think a semi private audience with the Holy Father may be obtainable. 
"Pardon this hast\* note—^I am off to a few days' journej' here in Germany and I want to answer you quickly, even though more briefly than I like to." (Father McGrath's address is Colcgio dcU' Anima, via della Pace 20, Rome. Italy. From Bill Bevington: 
**Thanks very much for your letter. It must have been here "for some time but I just re­turned last night from a trip. 
"\Vhen Mr. Brown said that few of his stu­dents remained in the strictly aeronautical en­gineering field, he made a fair prophecy of our class. Probably ClifT Marks is the closest to that ideal. The last time I saw ClifT, we were both working in structures at McDonnell Air­craft Corp. in St. Louis, Afo. He married a fine girl, of course. Since then things have changed a great deal for me. Just about the time you are in Rome I should be ordained deacon, which is the last step preliminary to the priesthood. Our class at the North American College here (which is a seminary for diocesan students of the American clergy) received the very important subdiaconate on July 16th of this >-ear. 
"I have heard a little from Joe Haggar ^vho is a father now, Kenny Schultj^ the one-hundredth man from the Aero Department, is doubtless still jn some t>'pe of engineering. 
"In Rome there are several other former ND students, mostly Holy Cross men. We have had a few pleasant visits together. Regards to^ all the class." (Bill's address is North American College, Via dell' Ulmitor 30, Rome, Italy. 
LOST AND FOUND The addresses of the following four men have been impossible to trace. If this notice of ap­peal fails, the Bureau of Missing Persons will be notified. Anyone knowing the addresses of any of the following, please report by penny postcard to your secretary: Bill Rabbctt, Bill Perry, LowcU V. IVard, and George T. Haley. 
THE '45 SPOTLIGHT 

This month the '45 spotlight falls on one of the most popular of the class. He was born in Chicago, Illinois, in 1922, and attended Loyola Academy there. His high school friends would know who he is because he was very active in football, basketball and boxing while a student. 
In IWI he came to Notre Dame and immc­diately began to make' friends. Two of his roommates, Jim O'Brien and Dave Condon wotUd know who he is—remembering him in intermural competition in baseball, basketball, and football. 
Father K^ioe and Mr. McAulifTe would know him immediately. His pal. Bud &falone, would remember his helping hand, especially after those visits across the way to St. Mar)*'s. 
We'll all know he's there at the lO-ycar reunion in 1955, because he's one of the lively spark plugs of the class. And he already has promised to be there. 
At present he's working as the Midwest Su­per\'Isor of the Babaco Alarm System, Inc. He's not married, and he writes that his ad­dress is 4305 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, Illinois. If you still are in doubt who he is, phone 
C3as5 election results H-ill appear in the January-February ALUMNUS 

DR-3-7840 in Chicago and ask for Francis Jose|A Kent, one of the most popular of the gang of '45. 
MARRIAGES George C. Haggerty to Mary Rita Rvan, New York. Frauds M. Guiney to Patrice Ann Mc­Allister, Brooklyn. BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. Kennedy, Sally .Anne, May ]] , Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. and Mrs. Theodore S. Wrfier, Theodore Stephen, Nov. 1. Bridgeport, Conn. 
1946 
Jaik Tenge, Jr., Secretary 912 Lovett Blvd. Hocutoo, Texas 
Rev. William F. Gartland, C.S.C., was re­cently appointed to the faculty of King's Col­lege as an instructor in Theology-. He will act as Prefect of Religion. 
Vincent A. Jacobs has recently signed a teach­ing contract with the West Bloomfield School System. Last year Vince was on the teaching-coaching staff at Quinc>* High School in Michigan. 
A note from his wife informs us that Joseph 

L. Hannon has been awarded the Commendation Ribbon with Pendant from the Dcpt. of the Army for "Meritorious achievement" at Yoko­hama, Japan, from Aug. 11 to Nov. 2, 1950. Capt, Hannon is now stationed in Korea as Regimental Sui^eon for the 14th Regimental Combat Team attached to the 25th Division. 
Stanley John Idzerda has received his Ph.D. from Western Reserve University. 
MARRIAGES Joteph F. Resting to Jannice Ueberroth, Aug. U, Toledo, Ohio. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. John J. O'Neill, Patricia Gay, August 26. 
1947 
Sam Adclo, Acting Secretary 818 Tiiomas St. Sonth Bend, lad. 
This is the season in which wcHI have to start planning for our first class reunion coining this summer on June 6^ 7, and 8. We*Il have to really get to work on forming our commit* tees so that this will be a bang-up affair. You should be getting a letter in the mail with further scoop, but right now let's everyone start making his long-range plans so that wcMl all be present. Contact everyone you know from '47 and we^ll have a reunion we'll all remember. 
Here's the word on a few of the boys: Dick Martinek is a senior in the Law School at the University and is working at Studebaker's. 
I visited Jim Larrick this summer. He has an important job with the Security Division of the Atomic Energy Commission at their plant iin Los Alamos. 
From Frank Cacdapaglia ".. . 'us' is my wife Kitty, our son Tony, nearly four, and our baby Mary Catherine, nearly two. Another child is expected in a few months. Kitty is a con­vert; was baptized the day before we were married. 
"As you can tell from my address, I'm the Washington representative for Schnclcy Labora­tories, Inc., an afKIiatc of Schenley Industries, Inc., of the whiskey, beer, wine empire. I've been with them since July after being a chemist in the U. S. Food and Drug Administration for three years." 
John Ronan was on campus for the SMU game and tells mc he is in business with his father in DeKalb, 111. 
Vere Trinkley is with Ball-Band in Tennessee. He makes Chattanooga his home. 
Sorry to hear that John Zilly, while playing with the L. A. Rams received an injury that will put him out for the season. 
Luis Beltranena is a practicing attorney in Guatamala City, Guatamala. His family now numbers two children. 
Rcrfando Diiarte just returned to San Salva­dore after studying Commerce in London. He is planning on entering business in New York. 
AI Fink is in business with his father at the Efengee Electrical Supply Co. in Chicago. In Chihuahua, Mcx., with the U. S. Depart­ment of Labor, is Alfredo Ortiz. At the SMU game also was Jerry Hendel. He is now working throughout Pennsylvania. 
Edward J. Sanders, M.D.—"since graduating from Creighton Med. school in 1949 (and finish­ing up my internship) I've been in the Navy again. I think most of us who were pre-mcds at Notre Dame in the 1943-45 era of V-12 are back in uniform as medical officers. At present I'm attached to a seaplane tender, a part of the Seventh Fleet. It supports PBM seaplane pa­trolling of the Red China Coast. My time is up next June, I believe." 
Willian Budd is now a research engineer for the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio. 
That's it for this time. Let's have a letter for some of you so we can spread the news about the class. And start talking up our reunion. 
MARRIAGES Dr. John H. McLaughlin to Peggy O'Brien, July 14, River Forest, 111. 
BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Pearse, Jr., Richard Henry III, Oct. 17. Mr. and Mrs. Jtdcs J. Cattie, Kathleen Ann, Oct. 24. 
1948 
Herman A. Zitt, Secretary Daytfu Pirodncts Ct. Warren at Apple Dayton, Ohio 
To Dean Baldinger: "A note to let you know that I received word from the Mayo Foundation that I have been accepted for a pediatric fel­lowship starting July 1, 1932. . . . The foot­ball team had a bad day Saturday (ND-SMU). . . . Bob Gauer and I watched the game with a Texan ... " Richard L. Myen, M.D., 3941 Norton St., Kansas City 4, Mo. 
From Frank A. Puyau: .. . "I am presently in my senior year at L.S.U. medical school with hopes of graduating in June of '52. .. . I 
November-December, 1951 
married the former Geraldinc Sally di Benefktto of New Orleans. . . . Jeny Da ^ of our class is now in the Army. Frands J. Reyes, *49, is in Japan with the Army as are Dan Laadry and Louis Watkins. Ray OstcrfacM, '49, is in New Orleans as a member of the Naval Reserve. 
"At L.S.U. medical school is another ND'er— Vicm Espcnaa, class of '50. He is a soph this year ... " Frank A. Poyaa, 1540 Crete St., New Orleans, Louisiima. 
Philip H. Ut2, 220 N. IngalU St., Ann Aibor, Michigan, is a medical student at the Univer^ sity of Michigan. 
Word has been received from Ridiard J. Nolaa that he was professed in simple vows la 'the Order of Friars Minor Conventual and his name has been changed to Shauen M. Nolan. His present address is Shauen M. Nolan, C.F.M. Conv., St. Anthony-on-Hudson, Rensselaer, New York. 
John K. Bartel will enter his second three-month phase of training this month in Air Force Officer Candidate School at Lackland AFB, Texas. 
Daniel P. Barlow has a new position with the Range and Water Heater Department as a de­sign engineer and will move to 5319 Buckner Ave., Louisville, Ky. 
From Cornelius J. Styers: *"'. . . I've been working at Bendlx Aviation Corp. in Mishawaka since June in the Engineering Dept. Before this I spent a short time in Washington, D . C , ivorking at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory..." 
James P. Carroll is back from South America and is in E\-anston, Wyoming. This oil m^ ­nate is a proud father again; this time a girl. 
Eugene J. Dineen received his Ph.D. from Ohio State University. 
MARRIAGES Philip B. Deily to Mary K. Prall, Oct. 1, 1951. George L. Olvany to Mary Johnson, June 16, 1951, South Bend. John C. Treacy to Mary Ann Owens, Oct. 20, Valley Stream, N. Y. Ear] F. Mullen to Janet Green, April 28 at Sioux Falls, S. D. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Tar^-er, Pamela Lynne, .Aug. 3, San Mateo, Calif. Mr. and Mrs. Paul J. Bracken, Susan, Oct. 17, Johnstown, Pa. Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius J. Styers, Thomas Joseph, Aug. 25, South Bend. Mr. and Mrs. Darnel P. Barlow, Kathleen Marie, July 3, Bridgeport, Conn. 
DEATHS 

Robert F. Raney died ver>- suddenly of polio on Sunday morning, Sept. 16, in Dayton, Ohio. He had been ill only four days of what was be-lic%'ed the fiu. Bob was only 27 and was active in the Dayton Notre Dame Club as its secretary. All prayers for him will be appreciated. 
1949 
John P. Walker, Secretary 135 S. LaSalle Street Chicago 3, Illinois 
Edward M. Jordanich was promoted to ser­geant in the army. He is stationed with the personnel section of the Fifth cavalry regiment in Korea. 
From Cclestino "Tino" Sierra: . . . "On March 31 I took on a Texan for a wife, Mary Ann Hudson of this ctiy (Fort Worth) . . . Jerry Fisch, who is now with Justin Boot Co. here was my best man and Ber ^ Bradley, '50, was usher ..." 
William T. Smnmers has been appointed an assistant football and basketball coach at Fram­ingham (Mass.) High Sc:hool. 
Emmet "Bob" Dalton is with the Travelers Insurance Co. and is now at the Home Office in Hartford, Conn., as a Group Underwriter. 
Capt. Charles R. Wagner of South Bend has been assigned to Craig Air Force Base, Alabama, as Senior Auditor for the Resident Axulitor. 
Louis G. Jeannot, Muskegon, Michigan, will enter his second phase of training this month in Air Force Officer Candidate School at Lack­land AFB, Texas. 
Harry Johasoa, Walkerton, Indiana, is em­ployed as Assistant Mgr. of the Muskin Mfg. Co. in Walkerton. 
Dr. Daniel £. Maloney is one of twenty-eight scientists who recently joined the research staff of the Du Pont Company's Polychemkals Dept. at the E:qieriaatal Station at WktSm^ 
ton, Delaware. 
Fete KcfBMi advises tlie Abani Ofice ol U» 
ensagemcnt aad cxmdmg carriage Jan. 19, tSB2^ 
to Aaa Sdiaefer in Detroit. He k s^ttiBS latD 
a real Notre Dame £iailr> Aaa aad her aM^ker 
have both takca gradnate MIOA at Notre Jhamti 
her father aad , two uades received degreea at 
N D aad her brother attended here before and 
after the war, but fiaisbed la thdr hoae dty. 
To add a finishing touch Fatbcr Fraak Gar­
laiagbj C.S.C., from the Universitr, will mwij 
them. 
From JobmiT Walbr: 
The other eveaing I had stqiper with Soar '49ers, Bob Maddca, Jim Howaid, Tom UcStmr and Bin Lyama. Tom and BiQ have been junketiag aboat ia Europe and have now aettlcd down to working for a living. Tom is wiA the Umted Press and Bin with a trade papcr» "Modem Railroads." Another member of O e fourth csute was Jim HowanU cnrrently wmkiag as a reporter for the Houston (Texas, that is) Chronicle. Bob MniH** is still in the uicsUacK tion business. 
Mac Haidesty sends the followiag letter: '*t am now in Louuville working as prodnction scheduler for Jefferson Qm. Depot acrom tlie river from Lounville. I have two dtildrcn, Mark, a boy, and Melanie, a girl who was bom September 13, 1931. I ran into Jim IGBcr, 'p, and Bin Aaluit, '51, in Louisville and we have had a cotqile^ of get-togethers. They are ia the armed forces * stationed near Fort Knox, Ky." Mac's address is 1125 Forest, Louisville, Ky. 
And from Tom McGmre: "Just in case anyone 
of the class of *49 would be interested, my wife 
and Z had a son, August 18—Thomas J. H L 
Looks like another ND man. Incidentally, my 
wife is the former Peggy Collins, ex '48, inm 
St. Mary's." 
Bob CSanchetti announces the arrival of n 
daughter, Linda Rose, who was bora at Sr41 
p.m. on September 27. Future St. Mary's clam of '73, says Bob. 
Mrs. Donald Coraxaa drops us thb bit <rf in­formation from Sidney, Ohio: "Don and I would like to enter our new son, Kevin Donald Cor­coran, in your vital statistics. He arrived ScfK tember 11, 1951. We never did send wtwd of the wedding last year, but it's a bit late now, Fd say. Don is working at Klinstfoe Lumber ft Supply Co., where he has been associated nnce graduation. I stvcly wish your ALUMNUS would put SMC after the St. Mary's girls .. . it would make reading easier for ns nosier fe­males." OK Mrs. C , wiU do. 
I got a note quite awhile back from B S 
Vaagca and it must have slid under the archives 
or something. • Here's what Bill had to say: 
"First, John, I want to report to yon and the world that August 4 I married the moat beautiful and wonderful ^ 1 in California; Fa> trida Lee Burkhart, a graduate of Fresno State College. My best man was KB Fnhim, class of '49 from ND. 
Second, I've been recalled to active duty 
reporting to the Submarine Base at New London, 
Aug. 24." 
once a habitue ol **Bnnvn's 

Bam" came through Chicago on a shc»rt ,vacatio«. 
Ernie ia wbrkins with the Goodyear .Mzcnft Co. 
down in Akron, Ohio. 
Jane Comes writes from Tidedo that her brother, Ctacfc Cimri, is married to Aaa Schomer. Hanld HoCmaa. '49, was best maa. Chuck is working with the PlaskoB Divisioa of Libbey-Owens-Fofd in Toledo. Ann aad Chock are livias at 2709 Detroit Avenue, Tdedo. 
Toaa Diaco, a long-time friend of mine bom the Commerce school, got himself a two<coiumB picture in the Chiogo Daily News aad five bucks besides. Tom was selected as oae of die ivinners ia the News' courtesy drxviog campa^a. A pretty tcea-agc miss gave Tom the b ^ smile and the cash award. Tom is with the Foiaica Company in the Chicago Sales office, lb. Diagei also tells me that Doa HuBtooa a with the Prudential Life Insurance Conqany right here in Chicago's Field Bldg. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Loais E. Tracy to Estelle M. Putdy. A De­cember wedding is planned. MARRIAGES Ridard J. Kopf to Marie Gerhardinger, Sept. 29, Toledo. Roben W. Jordan to Dorothy Wensits, Sept. 15, South Bend. Joka J. Qaiim, Jr., to Maureen McMaaas, Oct. 6, South Orange, N. J. Jbka C Clyao to Margaret Lauman, Oct. 6, Garden City, L. I., N. Y. 
3S 

Herbert H. KfcDade, Jr., to Ann Finucanc, Brooklyn, N. Y. Louis H. Ziunbahlcn to Elizabeth Shaw, Sept. 15, Decatur, III. BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. James B. Kcsting, Mary Joanne, Sept. 12, Toledo, Ohio. Jhfr. and Mrs. Frank Sulli%*an, daughter, Sept. €, South Bend, Ind. 
1950 
2nd Lt. John F. Connor, U.S.M.C.R., Secretary I Co. 2nd Tr. Bn. "A" Barracks Afarine Corps Schools QuonticD, X^r^nia 
Your secretarj* was commissioned in the Ma­

rines Sept. 8 following a summer training period 
in the Senior Platoon Leaders Class. Since that 
date I have been on active duty attending Basic 
School at Quantico, Virginia. 
I have been vcr\' fortunate in meeting sc\*eral 

classmates and those from other years. As much 
OS I can remember, follows: 
At Quantico, Paul Sdiafly, '50, is finishing liis basic as is Jim Black. Ben Blays, AI Bailej- and Tom Klett, *51, are all in my company. \MIIie &fc:&fahon is doing well in tlic flnance dept. at -Camp Lenord Wood. Heard last night that Bill Moriarty and his wife are living some\*'here in Baltimore and that Bill is stationed at an Army camp nearby. Have been in touch with Bob Tucscher who just recently switched from Georgetown to Rutgers law school. 
Speaking of law students, Mike Fumo, Vince Shendon, Tom Weithers and my roommate Bill O'Brien arc all doing ver>' well at their respective law schools in Chicago. When I ^\•as last home I saw Bud Romano who was headed for O.C.S. at Fort Rile>-, Kansas. Bud told me that 2nd Lt. John Brodrick, USA, is in Japan and that Roger Brown is 5er\'ing In Korea. Two other Chicago buddies and classmates Earl Rowen and Ban Ormsfay are doing ver>- well in their fields of advertising and insurance. 
Regards to all my classmates wherever you may be. Rodney R. Forbes received his MA degree 
from Ohio State. 
From the Altmini office: 

Bob Stock has a series of articles which are interesting and being widely oammcncd on in the Catholic Universe-Bulletin. Jack AfcHale is now a special agent, ser\'ing 
•with the FBI in Los Angeles. He attended bureau training in Washington, D. C, prior to this appointment. The\- now reside at 2317 El Paseo, Alhambra, California. 
Ensign John W. Thornton and his ^rifc leave for Hawaii the end of November. Bill Bradley is now an Ensign. 
Daniel J. Osbergcr has been appointed office manager and accountant at Modern Motors, Inc., in South Bend. 
William R. Shanafaan, formerly of Lima, Ohio, is a Corporal stationed at Patrick Air Force Base, Cocoa, Florida. Before entering the ser\-­ice. Bill worked with Standard Oil and then went to Europe and made the Holy Year Trip 
•where he ran into Harry MacDonald, Mike Mcany, to menu'on a few. Jim "Clutch" Holway bas been keeping him posted on word from the boys and ND nc\%-s in General. Bill is now en­gaged to a foreign national named Marian O'Brien, who is actually a Lima girl. Xo wed­ding date set as yet. 
Pvt. Thomas E. Wantroba, Ansonia. Conn., 41st Tank Battalion of the Eighth Inf. Div. Spe­cialist Tmg. Reg. at Ft. Jackson, So. Carolina, completed the Leaders Course conducted by the Officer Candidate School at Lackland AFB, Texas, 
John E. McAuIiffe, Bellows Falls, Vt., will «nter his second phase of training in Air Force as is Donald P. Owens, Brunswick, Ga. 
Dr. Tad L. Patton of AVichita Falls, Texas, is taking a position in the Central Research Dcpt. of the Monsanto Chemical Co., Dayton, Ohio. 
J<rfm D. McLain, Fredericksburg, Va., is em­ployed as an Industrial Engineer for American Viscose Corp. 
Pvt. Thomas R. Sheridan is stationed in New 

Mexico. 
Bin McGinley, Jr., is a Naval Air Cadet at 

Pensacola, Fla. 
Frank G. Kelly is now with the Theiscn-

Glemens Co., St. Joseph, Michigan. 
Cfcarie* T. Hellmnth has been appointed As­

^tant Group Sales Manager of the Lincoln 
National Life Ins. Co. 
Robert D. Sieron has joined the technical staff 

of the Whiting Research Laboratories of Standard Oil Co., Whiting, Indiana. 
ENGAGEMENTS William H. McGinley, Jr., to Genevieve Carey, Easton, Pa. Geoi^e A. Haas to Mary Jane Farrell, South Bend. December wedding being planned. Lt. John F. McGoldrick to Margaret Castle, Cohansey, New Jersey. 
MARRIAGES Leo N. Cunningham, Jr., to Kathr^-n Kiszla, October 27, South Bend. John S. Argue to Mary Peck, Sept. 21, South Bend. Anthony Girolami to Virian Kubiak, Sept. 1, Soutli Bend. Maurice J. Ferriter to Rosemary' Schilling, Sept. 15, Lafayette, Ind. Ens. William W. Bradle>- to Virginia Logan, Oct. 27, Denver, Colorado. Bemie Bradley - to Patricia Kieth, Oct. 20, Fort \Vorth, Texas. BIRTHS Mr. and Mrs. John E. McHale, Kathleen McHall, Oct. 30, Los Angeles. Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. O'Hara, Mary Frances, Oct. 8, San Francisco. • Mr. and Mrs. Gzrald A. Heberlein, Jerome John, July 25, Maple Hgts., Ohio. 
1951 
Robert J. Klingenbei^er, Secretar\­1832 M Street, N. AV. Washington, D. C. 
Note to the class of *5!; I know we all enjoy reading this column and eagerly look for par­ticular names in each issue. For this reason, all contributions and any suggestions will be gladly received by the Alumnt Associatoin or myself. 
Vernon Burkhart has entered the Benedictine Order and is studying for the priesthood at Con­ception Abbey, Conception. Missouri. 
Tom Mullen is using his Aero.- Emr. training vnth a helicopter company in Philadelphia. Har\-cy 0*NeilI is with Auto-Lite in Toledo, Ohio. Tom Carroll is with the public relations de­partment at the school and back on campus. Tom Logan and Jack Coryn are continuing law at Notre Dame. 
Hank Afadden and Andy Wassell are in Allis-Chalmcrs training program and currently in New Haven, Conn. 
Dick Calef has accepted a position with the Hytron Electronics Corporation in Salem, Afass., which is a division of the National Broadcasting Corporation. 
Bob Murphy • is now a special investigator (FBI) and stationed in New Haven, Conn. 
Frank Suprenant, Matty O'Donnell, Bill Coo-t>cy, Jim Afarten, Ray Terpstra, Jim Bates are studying law at Georgetown. 
Lee Brown is working in AVilmington, Del. 

Joe St. Louis, Joe Bcttencourt, Bill Oonroy, Tom Kraus are in Med. school in Washing­ton, D. C. 
Bud Htrr is back in Chatworth, Illinois, work­ing in a bank part time and nursing his back to perfect condition. 
Bob Hoir is selling (I don't know what) in Afilwaukee and appears to be doing ^vell. Bob Edmondson is secure once more in the East—making his livelihood with Johns Manville. 
Chuck Talley is in Harvard Law School and recently met Jim O'Donndl, Jack Murray, both in Fordham Law School; Jack Voit, and Tim Hayes in New York. 
Jack Young with Phiico in Philadelphia, and Tom W^olff, working in Reading, Pa., made it to Baltimore for the Navy game together with Ken Thorcn, now working in New York. 
Jack Bodolay is in the banking business in New York City and Frank McCann is in the arvcrtising business there. 
Tom Hinkes is with Victor Chemical in Chi­cago. Bob Anderson is pursuing more chemistry at Purdue Graduate School. Ted Ferdinand and Georg Schmidt are in Harvard Graduate School. John O'Brien and Ed Sullivan are in the Chrysler Institute. Jim Hennessy is working %v-ith his father in 
the Real Estate business. Mike Bransfield is selling in Milwaukee. Tom Meyers and Don Sond:^ are in North-
western's Med. School. 
Jim Sheerin is now "married and residing in 

Indianapolis. Mike Jacobs is studying law at Wisconsin U. Bob Alt is studying in Brookl>-n at St. John's. Other fellows hack on campus: Joe MoschcIIa— 
Phy. Ed. school; Jack O'Brien—teaching in Engr.; Leo Brennan—grad work in Inter. Rel. Dan Bagley is playing ball and working in Mihvaukee—I understand. Bemie Lavins is with Bethlehem Steel in Baltimore. 
Jack Broderick, Dick Marshall, Dick Jordan, and Dick Giedlin are attending the University-of Pennsylvania. 
U. S. MARINES— 
Bob Riddle, AI Bailey, Jim Hartman, and Jim Kingsley are at Quantico. 
U. S. AIR FORCE Jack Amrbdn is now located at Fort Myers 
and working in tlic Pentagon. John Moore is at Langlcy Field. Bob Raymond is at Lowery Field in Denver. Dave Shoen is at Hope Field at Fort Bragg. Bill Anhut is nov*' stationed in Louisville, 
Kentucky. ^ Joe Duk:rt is stationed in Washington, D. C , and attending language school. Harry Hanigan is now brass and stationed in Dayton, Ohio. 
U. S. ARMY— 
Dave O'Lcary, Jim McGuire, \lnce Ste. Marie, and other ND men spent an evening together at Camp Slicridan. 
Leo Supple, Bill Walsh, Bill Hoscheidt, Bill Kelly, Pat O'SulIivan arc also now serving. Dick MacDonald is currently in Hawaii and hoping for a nod for O.C.S. 
U. S. NAV\'— 
Jerry Hank and Bill Carey* are training in the Naval Officer Procurement program and cur­rently stationed at Nevvport, R. I. 
Ed Meagher is studying in Philly after 3 months in the Med. Sea. Fred Kaufman is currently on duty in the Med. Sea. Andy Walsh's next assignment carries him into the Atlantic Destroyer Force. Phil Finnegan on the USS Newport News, 
is now- at Norfolk. Dick Herle is on the Coral Sea. Pat Barrett, now serving in the Korean area, 
is slated to marry in February. Chuck Luecke has been in for about eight months now. 
From Brace Lawlcr to the Placement Office: he is very pleased with hb position with the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway as an internal auditor. His traveling for the company has begun and he enjoys getting to Cleveland, De­troit and Baltimore. When in Cleveland he sees AI Miltner and in Baltimore Charlie Krds and his wife. Charlie wzs married this past May. 
Norman Kopec has joined the law firm Jones, Obenchain & Butler. 
Lt. Thomas O. Klett is in the Afarine Corps. His present address is Hunting Towrrs, Apt. 8I3C, Mt. Vernon Blvd., Alexandria, Va. 
1st Lt. Bill Fechner, who received his degree in absentia, is now with the Fifth Air Force in Japan. His address Is AO 590184, Box 41, Hq. 6101st A.B. Gp., APO 710, % P.M., San Fran­cisco, Calif. 
Jack Harford is with the Prudential Ins. Co., in Newark, New Jersey. 
Pvt. Joseph R. WUdcman, Indiana, Pa., has been assigned to the 10th Infantry Div., Fort Riley, Kans., for Army basic training. 
ENGAGEMENTS Anthony DeBaggis, Jr., to Julia Simeri. 

MARRIAGES Robert E. AfcGIynn to Mary Hcrr, Aug. 25, Belleville, Illinois. 
A. Joseph Adams to Carol Spaulding, Sept;. 1, Notre Dame, Indiana. Robert E. Clemency to Mary Virginia Pinter, Sept. 10, Chicago, 111. Ed%vard M. Rhoads to Ann Fapandria, Sept. 22, South Bend. John R. Bowlhy to Jo Ann Smi h, Sept. 7, South Bend. Richard D. Smalt to Marilyn McManus, Sept. 7, South Bend. Paul C. Eide to Rosemary Trcacy, Oct. 20, South Bend. 
Thomas O. Klett to Rosemary McAndrews, Aug. 18, Chicago, Illinois. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Ideal Christmas 
G 

1 SONGS OF NOTRE DAME 
Students, Alumni and Friends, here's something that will be 
PLAYING CARDS 

enjoyed by the entire family . . . R C.A.'s new record album Notre Dome Playing Cords—Plastic coated, top quality card:. 
containing the Songs of Notre Dame by the Notre Dame Sold exclusively ot NoUe Dame BooV.store in single and dou­
Band and Glee Club. The cover of the case will please you ble decks. 
with its photographic reproduction of campus scenes. . . . 
Single Dec-s S .95 Double SI .85 Then, too, the records are plastic and unbreakable. Records Custom Processed and Pressed by RCA-Victor and produced and published by Recorded Publications Company. $5.00 
f t 
s
FOR THE FAMILY 

Here is an idea! gift for the family. The unique Notre Dame dinner plate, handsomely embossed, with an impressive mon­tage of campus scenes on one plate. Perfect too for escut­cheon mounting or as a decorative piece. $1,75 
CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES TO TOAST NOTRE DAME 
At party time, reunion time, and many other occasions, your entertaining will be tops in graciousness, thanks to these superb Notre Dame glasses. The seal is permanent and they are made up in traditional colors. 
N. D. BUCKLE — For your Friend 10 oz. glasses—$4.25 doz. plus 
SI.50 express charges 14 oz. glasses—S4.95 doz. plus 
This impressive monogram beJ buclcle will surely be appeal­
ing to him . . . It's something special for a special Notre $1.50 express charges 
Dome friend. $2.40 
Order Blank on page 39. 

November-December, 1951 
NOTRE DAME "SHIRTS FOR SQUIRTS" 
Whot a thrill youngsters will get wearing their own Fighting Irish poloshirts. Not only popular, but practical too because they ccm be worn anywhere and are eosily washable . . . Every youngster wants one, so don't forget this economically priced gift . . . Moke a hit ot o reasonobte purchase price. 
$1.25 
BOYS' N. D. SWEATSHIRT 

Christmas, or any othei festive occasion can't help but be a hit when this Notre Dame sweatshirt is port of the gift array . . . This sweatshirt, with the fomous N. D. monogram, mokes it most attractive to real All-Americon boys. 
Sizes 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 ond 14. 
$2.00 

NOTRE DAME MONOGRAM BLANKET 
Actual reproductions of college colors; 100 percent wool blanket and binding . . . Chenille monograms and as a per­sonal touch, the name and graduation year is durably chain stitched on the blanket edge. 78 x 60 inches (one large N. D. monogram}. 
Blanket with ND monogrom — $19.95 
Blanket with name and graduation year -• S20.95 
FROM TIE 
N 0 T R E 
D A M E 
BOOKSTORE 

FOR FRESHMEN OF THE FUTURE 
Every youngster will want one of these Notre Dame mono gram cops . . . blue gabardine twill with gold peak and monogram. Juvenile sizes, small, medium, large — 
$.95 
CAMPUS CREW HATS 

Royal blue gaberdine twill hats with Notre Dame spelled out across the front in gold — 
$1.25 

TRIM MONOGRAMMED NOTRE DAME WINDBREAKBl 
A snug, handsome iocket of lightweight poplin for yeor­oround wear . , . has slash pockets, full zipper front, raglan sleeves, ond adjustable elastic sides . . .treated with Du Pont Zelon, and permanently vat dyed, monogrammed with official Notre Dome seal. 
$6.40 
Ordtf Blank on page 39. 

J« The Notre Dame Alumnus 
ORDER BLANK 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE NOTRE DAME HONOR BIANKET 
University of Notre Dame' Notre Dome, Indiana 
NOTRE DAME PUYING CARDS Single Deck $.95 — Double $1.85 Quantity Single Deck Quantity Double Deck 
r 

NOTRE DAME PLATES—$1.75 Quantity Plates 
NOTRE DAME BELT BUCKLES—$2.40 Quantity Buckles 
SONGS OF NOTRE DAME—$5.00 
Quantity Albums 78 R. P. M. Quantity Albums 45 R. P. M. 
NOTRE DAME DRINKING GLASSES 
doz. 10 oz. glasses—$4.25 plus $1.50 express cost. Total—$5.75 
doz. 14 oz. glasses—$4.95 plus $1.50 express cost. Total—%6.A5 

"SHIRTS FOR SQUIRTS"—$1.25.  Sizes 2 to 14.  
QuanQuanQuan  Age Age Age  S S S  A A A  L L I  
BOY'S N. D. SWEATSHIRT—$2.00 0 2 0 4 0 6O 10 D 12 O 14  D 8 D 16  

NOTRE DAME—$3.00 The story of a great University, by Richard Sullivan 
All prices quoted include 
n Send blanket with ND monogram—$19.95 
Q Send blanket with name and year—$20.95 
Name to sew Year—. 
FRESHMEN OF THE FUTURE Juvenile size: Q S Q M Q •• $ -95 Crew Hats: O S Q M Q I $1.25 
NOTRE DAME WINDBIEAKBI—$6.40 Please check quantity and sizes desired. 
Quan Small (34-36), Quan.........Miedium (38-40). Quan Large (42-44). 
NOTRE DAME ROSARIES—Men and Wonwh 
Quan unbreakable sterling black-—$7.50 Quan black beads—$3.85 Quan. Ladies' Rosary in all Sterling silver— 
$12.00 or $6.00 Quan Ladies' Rosary—Pearl—$12.00 Quan Scapular Medal—$2.75 
NOTRE DAME HEAD SCARFS—$1.40 Quan Scarfe — White Quan Scarfc — Yellow 
MEN'S N. D. 'T ' SHIRTS—$1.25 
MEN'S N. D. SWEATSHIRTS—$230 Sizes small (34-36), medium (38-40), and large (42­44). Send "r * shirt (s) in size Send Sweatshirt (s) in size 
white gray 

NOTRE DAME ASHTRAY 
Send chrome plate ashtray O $2.75 
Send heavy glass ashtray O $ -50 
NOTRE DAME VICTORY MARCH MUSICAL POWDER BOXES Small $6.50 O Medium $7.25 D large $8.25 O 
handling and maUing costs. 

PLEASE SHIP TO:  
NAME ....  
ADDRESS  
CITY  ZONE  STATE ...:...  
Enclose check or money order, or merchandise may be sent C.O.D.  

November-December, 1951 
Mr. IJdiVard J. Trace./ jr, 12iJ7 Old Soaloburg Rd., State College, :Pa. 
Ideal OhrMmas 
'f-fft 
THE PERFECT GIFT 

Notre Dome Rosary for men and women — 
Unbreakable sterling, black — S7.50 
Mre Dame 
Bloc;: Beods —S3.85 
Ladies' Rosoties tn all sterling silver — S6.00, 512.00. Poorl — 512.00. 

Sterling Silver Scapular Medal with 2-inch chain for men, same design os rosary center piece — S2.75. 
Notre Dame Victory March 
MUSICAL POWDER BOXES 
Small  S6.50  Q  
Medium  S7.25  Q  
Large  S8.25  Q  

N. D. HEAD SCARFS 

Fine spun rayon, fringed edge head scarf. Water repellent, crease proof, large size 33" x 36". Colors — white or yellow. Boxed individually. 
$1.40 
MEN'S N. D. "T" SHIRTS AND SWEATERS 

The "T " shirt you've been looking for . . . the volue and quality v/e*ve been shooting for. Quality yarn, white, quarter sleeve, compete with Notre Dome ond seat processed design in blue. Small (34 to 36) Medium (38 to 43) Lorge [42 to 44). 
$1.25 
MEN'S N. D. SWEATSHIRTS 

Grey or while fleece-lined sweatshirts with design the some OS "T " shirts. Small, Medium, Large. $2.50 
NOTRE DAME ASHTRAY 

No butts obout it fellas . . . the new N. D. Ashtray in life­time chrome plate is an ideal souvenit gift. Perfect item for every N. D. man's desk . . . Beautifully designed, built to last . . . Moderately priced. Sold in attractive gift package for Dad, the Girl ot home, or any Notre Dome enthusiast. 
$2.75 

Also you'll wont some of the Notre Dome heovy gloss osh­troys. Beautiful clear glass ash troys with a blue and gold 
N. D. seal which is permanent. Get several of them . . . you'll have n-.cny uses for them. % .50 





