The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTRE DAME 

IMll 
JULY-AUGUST, 1969 

Nonviolence or Nonexistence? The University Attempts an Answer 
For your informatioii 
This is my first opportunity to welcome you to the magazine and it's a 
pleasure. You may notice some marked variations in both style and quality — 
hopefully pleasing — this time around, mainly because we've got a penchant 
for experimentation and because for the first time we were able to utilize the 
offset printing method to produce the ALUMNUS. We hope you have the 
patience to bear with us in our continuing search for that piece de resistence 
in style. Though it may seem we've been a bit on the inconsistent side, we 
feel each issue brings us closer to our objective. 
This, our mid-summer effort, is devoted in large part to a feature on the University's new program for the nonviolent resolution of human conflict. The program is a unique academic venture with implications that seem terribly relevant in a society swollen with cruelty and violence. Prof. Charles McCarthy, the program director, sheds light on interesting aspects of the program and the problem with which it will be concerned. 
You also have the opportunity to digest a joint statement by the presidents of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's College on the recently announced move toward increased coeducational opportunities. Fr. Hesburgh and Msgr. McGrath present a detailed explanation of cooperative moves to date and possibilities for the future. 
Also for your pleasure, we've included extensive photographic coverage of REUNION '69, an extremely successful gathering held on campus this past June. You'll notice that we didn't incriminate anyone by identifying the fellows in the various pictures, but we trust the facial expressions will speak for themselves. 
The NOTRE DAME ROMAN ESCAPADE, an enchanting event to be hosted by James Elliot Armstrong and his lovely wife Marian, is announced within and you may browse through a story on the University's new sports and games collection. 
Easily the most unpleasant duty of this alumni publication is the announce­ment of the death of sons of Our Lady. In this issue we bring news of the passing of two wonderful alumni. William C. Schmitt of Portland, Ore., died barely a month after receiving the Alumni Association's highest accolade, the Edward F. Sorin Award. John P. Murphy of Cleveland, a University trustee for 35 years, passed away in July as well. 
We hope you enjoy the July-August edition. 
Tom Sullivan 
Managing Editor 

CONTENTS  
Unhreiaty  p.  1  Qubs  p. 43  
Feature  p.  8  On Record  p. 46  
Class News  p. 15  Alnmni Speak  p. 48  
Gtaduate Schools  p. 39  Almniii Aslc  p. 49  

VoL 47 No. 5 Joly-August 1969 
James D. Cooney EXECUTIVE SEOIETAKV 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION John P. Thurin '59 EonaK Tom Sulltvan '66 MANACINO EDITOR Sandn Loiufoote ASSISTANT EDITOB Jeannine Doty EDITOUAL ASSISTANT 
M. Bruce Harbn '49 CHIEF PHOTOCKAFHEK 
ALIJMNI ASSOCIATION OFTICERS 
Richaid A. Rosenthal '54 
HONOHAItV FkESIDENT 

Leonard H. Skoglund '38 
niESniENT 

Edwaid G. CantweU '24 
VlCE-BttSIDENT 

Edwaid B. Fitzpatrick Jr. '54 
VICE-HOSIDENT John J. Reidy '27 VICE-R«SIDENT 
James D. Cooney *59 EXECUTIVE SEOIETAIIV 
DIRECrORS TO l»7t 
Edwaid G. Cantwcll '24 (PuBuc REUTIONS AND DEI-ELOPHENT) 700 Binns Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43204 
Edwaid B. Fittpatiick Jr. '54 (STUDENT AF-FAns) WUhins Wdl Fann, Old Brook­viUe, N.Y. 11545 
John J. Reidy '27 (ACADEMIC AFFAIBS) 11850 Edgewater Dr., Lakewood, Ohio 44107 Richaid A. Rosenthal '54, P.O. Box 200, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
Leonaid H. Skcglund '38 (ATBI-ETIC, SENATE RELATIONS) 426 Dover Ave., LaGrange Park, HI. 60525 
DISECroRS TO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124 Walter M. Langford '30, 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42, 1113 Rocky River Rd., Houston, Tex. 77027 
Frands J. Wilson '28, 6105 Howe St., Rttibuigh, Fla. 15206 
DDtECnORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Eikins '47, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Massman '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Ho. 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 BMg., Ftaipano Beach, Fla. 33062 Robert L. McGoIdrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartloid, Conn. 06117 Leonaid H. Tose '37, 64 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 19405 
19G9 Notre Dune ALDHNUS, Univeiaty of None Dame, all rights reserved. Repioduction in whole or in part without written permis­9on is prtdiiBited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published seven times a year by the University of Notre Dune. Secand«Iass postage paid at Notre Dune, Ind. 46556. 


Two presidents on eoedueation 
Recent publicity on the coeduca­tional opportunities afforded students of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College has given rise to some misunderstandings. We hope that this joint statement will clear up any conhision. 
There is not now and never has been any intention of merging Saint Mary's College with the University of Notre Dame. The board of trustees, the administration and faculty of both institutions have expressed repeatedly their intentions of main­taining the autonomy of each institution. The recent announcement of coeducation in some classes should be considered only as a step to provide greater opportunity for the education of students on both campuses. In recent years the two schools have initiated a number of cooperative programs from which the coeduca­tional plan is a logical development. 
THE CO-EXCHANGE PROGRAM 
Over four years ago, the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Col­lege agreed to open classes to students from the other institution when the same course was not offered on the home campus. This program has been most successful; it has enriched the educational opportunities for the students. During the past semester, 350 Notre Dame men and an equal number of Saint Mary's women were enrolled in some 100 different courses on each campus as part of their undergraduate program of studies. Not only have the students benefited from a broadened curriculum but both institutions were able to reduce the number of courses offered in which there were fewer than 10 students. This program is academi­cally sound and economically bene­ficial. 
COOPERATION NOW IN PROGRESS 
A coordinating committee composed of administrators and faculty from both institutions has been meeting for the past 18 months to determine what forms of coopera­tion would best serve the education of our students. Several patterns of cooperation have evolved: 
1) The Cooperative Department of Speech and Drama. 
Until recent years, both institutions had separate departments of speech and drama but recognized that students cannot be trained adequately in speech and drama without both men and women participating in the plays and workshops. During the past year, the two departments have become one cooperative department and have chosen as chairman Mr. Roger Kenvin, who completed his doctoral studies at Yale University. Half of the faculty are on contract with the University of Notre Dame and the other half with Saint Mary's College. Dr. Kenvin is a member of the Saint Mary's College faculty. The total budget for this department is divided equally between the two institutions. 
2) The Undergraduate Department of Education. 
In September of 1969, the Notre Dame Institute for Studies in Educa­tion, under the direction of Rev. Neil 
G. McCluskey, S.J. as dean-director, will begin operation. The institute has five component parts of which the Saint Mary's College Undergrad­uate Department of Education is one. Sister Rita Mercille, C.S.C. is chairman of this department, and all undergraduate courses in education will be offered by the Saint Mary's College department for students from both institutions. All faculty members in this department are under contract to Saint Mary's College. All graduate courses in education will be offered at the University of Notre Dame. 
3) The Department of Religious Studies. 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. and Sister Maria Assunta, C.S.C. are chairmen of the undergraduate departments of religious studies at the University of Notre Dame and at Saint Mary's College, respectively. Under their leadership, all courses in religious studies will be open to the students of both schools and special­ized courses will be offered on each campus through the exchange of professors. While these two depart­ments have a great degree of cooper­ation, they remain recognizably separate with their own chairmen and faculty. 
4) Expansion of the Co-exchange Program. 
During the past four years, the Co-ex Program has been limited to junior and senior students. Begiiming in September, 1969, sophomores also will be permitted to take advantage of 
Msgr. John J. McGrath 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
courses offered in either institution. 
5) The Freshman Experiment. 
In September, 1969, an experi­mental program will permit freshman students to take two of their five courses of instruction on the neighbor­ing campus. There is ample evidence that some courses are best taught in classes composed of both men and women. Each sex brings a diversity of viewpoint that is educationally beneficial to the other. No students will be required to study on the other campus, but the opportunity will be provided. The results of this ex­periment «ill be studied carefully. 
6) Registration. For the past several years the registration of all students has been facilitated by the use of the electronic 
computers of the University of Notre Dame. 
7) Student Services. With the increase in the number of students who are taking advantage of courses offered on the other campus, it has become necessary to purchase additional buses to transport the students quickly between classes. It will also be necessary to permit some students to take their noon meal on 
either campus as their schedule of classes demands. 
CURRENT DISCUSSIONS 
A revised curriculum was adopted at Saint Mary's College in Sepember, 1968, after three years of intense study. The University of Notre Dame is currentiy engaged in a curriculum revision which will become effective in September of 1970. As these changes are being considered, there is a continuing dialogue between the curriculum committees of the two institutions. While there are many points of similarity, it is clear that the curricula of the two institutions will contain many and far-reaching differ­ences. When cooperation is possible to attain a common objective it would be foolhardy not to cooperate, but it would be nonsense to try to deny the particular objectives of each institution. It is doubtful that a common curriculum would ever satisfy fully the needs of the students in either school. 
During the coming year, the possibility of establishing an "experi­mental college" is being explored. Such a college would bring many iimovations into our teaching methods 

and pioneer more effective ways to 
cope with the ever-mounting explosion 
of knowledge. If approved, the 
"experimental college" will draw its 
faculty and students from both insti­
tutions. It would have its major 
impact, like the year of studies 
abroad, on the sophomore level. 
For many years, the University of 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
College have engaged in joint purchase 
of some materials and equipment, 
especially in the fields of science. We 
are presentiy discussing the feasibility 
of greater cooperation in purchasing 
to enable us to obtain the advantages 
of mass buying. 
The adoption of an identical academic calendar and a common grading system will be implemented as soon as possible. 
THE NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S PLAN 
It should be clear from what has been said above that the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College are not imitating anything that has been done at other places. The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Plan is not duplicating the Radcliffe-Harvard experience, or the Barnard-Columbia experience, or the Clare­mont Cluster College experience. The University of Notre Dame is not following in the footsteps of Princeton or Yale; Saint Mary's College is not following in the footsteps of Vassar or Xavier College. As the students would express it, "We are doing our own thing." 
For 125 years, the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College have been dedicated to a common purpose: The Christian education of youth. They have exercised leadership in the higher education of men and women by developing educational programs which educate the student for the world in which he will live. It would be strange, indeed, if they failed to pursue this goal. They would bs unfaithful to those who have gone before them if they did not provide the best environment possible for the students who will be coming to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's for the next 125 years. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. President University of Notre Dame 
Msgr. John J. McGrath President Saint Mary's College 
Victor Schaefer and D. C. Grant eye highlights 


Unveil sports 
There might be a new home for those old football programs, letters from Knute Rockne and sport scrap­books that have been sitting in your basement for years just collecting dust 
That home might be the Notre Dame Memorial Library in a section called special collections. 
An International Sports and Games Research Collection has been estab­lished at ND with the philosophy that "Sports and games fill a large place in public consciousness throughout all ages of society. They are a basic part of all cultures, racial groups and all historical ages because they are a fundamental form of human expression." 
Suggested in recognition of the growing significance of news and history of sports, the collection was first proposed by Victor Schaefer in the spring of 1966, then the director of the ND library. Endorsed by the Library Advisory Council, the idea was given a shot in the arm in March, 1968, when publicity about the collection was distributed. D. C. (Chet) Grant, former athlete, coach and sports writer, was named secretary to the Central Committee and was appointed to coordinate the project with assistance of qualified librarians. 
The collection is intended to provide an internationally oriented source of research for students, historians, scholars, philosophers and all others interested in sports. Because of the 
sa-fiiaSSJ -yr^- j-y ..,-!-" 

?hts 
tht sports and games collection. 


and games eolleetion 
universal character sought, non-ND 
persons and nonathletes are widely 
involved in the contribution and 
selection of materials housed in the 
library. 
The collection consists of memo­

rabilia of sports and games, both 
amateur and professional, athletic and 
nonathletic, from all periods in 
history. Books, manuscripts, letters, 
notes, magazine articles, news stories, 
photographs, drawings, records, tapes 
microtexts, programs, brochures, 
trophies, sculptures and personal 
artifacts concerning any sport form 
the nucleus of the collection. 
A national committee for collecting appropriate material for the project from various regions of the country has been formed. Members are named to the committee both on a geo­graphical and an individual sports basis. There is, for example, a chair­man for the Tucson, Ariz., committee and also a chairman for soccer. ­
Early acquisitions for the collection indicate that it will provide both an invaluable reference source and interesting browsing for sports enthusiasts. Some of the first dona­tions include a complete set of Sports Illustrated and a five-year subscription ta the magazine, a gift from Ed G. Andrews, Granada Hills, Calif. 
Also on the shelves of the special collections room are diversified contributions from the Chicago Sun-Times librarian, Joe Simon; gifts from James T. Gallagher, assistant to the commissioner of baseball; items 
from the estate of veteran sports 
writer William Francis Fox; and 
Tommy Armour's syndicated golf 
lessons in manuscript form. 
Contributors may donate mem­
orabilia to the International Research 
Collection by gift, loan or bequest, 
and the gifts may either be one item 
or an entire collection on a subject. 
For those unable to present material 
to the program at the present, 
commitments in the form of wills 
for posthumous donations are ac­
cepted. Those who would like to 
support the program but are without 
available materials may contribute 
financially. 
Persons who have items which might be of interest in the collection are invited to inquire about donating them to the International Sports and Games Research Collection, D. C. Grant, Memorial Library, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
The scope of the collection is not a limited one, for in time, the organizers of the project hope to collect memorabilia pertaining to all sports and games known to man..­The program is a large-one, and although the beginnings may be small, the director of the collection, Victor Schaefer, is optimistic about success, stating, "We are very much heartened by the many favorable inquiries and volunteers to aid in forming the collection." 
IVD trustee sueenaibs 
John P. Murphy, a University of 
Notre Dame trustee for 35 years and 
chairman of the board of the Higbee 
Company in Cleveland, (%io, died 
July 15 in Cleveland. A firm believer 
in Catholic education, Muiphy has 
been a lifetime benefactor to numer­
ous Catholic secondary and advanced 
institutions. He is (me of Notre 
Dame's biggest contributors. 
The 82-year-old Massachusetts native received a law degree bom ND in 1912 and headed the University Alumni Association in 1928. He was elected a trustee of the institution in 1934 and received an honorary LL.D. in 1952. 
After finishing law studies at ND, Murphy immediately entered the practice of law in Minneapolis. Soon after, he enlisted in the Air Corps and after completing his tour of duty, moved to Portiand, Ore. There he was allied with the United States Spruce Corporation, until moving to Cleveland, where he served as attorney for the Van Sweringen rail­road interests. 
In 1924 he became president of Cleveland's largest department store chain. He also established the John P. Murphy Fund as a benefac­tion to the University. 
John P. Murpky '12L. 
SUMMA passes 84 pereeiit 
Twenty-three thousand gifts and $44.1 million. That's how the stand­ings read for SUMMA, "Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge,' with a goal of $52 million. Now in its third year, the five-year fund-raising pro­gram has reached more than 84 per cent of its desired goal. 
Both alumni and non-alumni have been busy helping SUMMA stay in great shape. Of the total amount re­ceived, alumni have donated $15.5 million, while the non-alumni have given S2S.5 million. 
But just as the fund raisers are not standing still, neither are the funds which they are soliciting, nor the Uni­versity to which the money is con­tributed. Long-range plans include such things as new graduate pro­grams in science and engineering, theology and psychology, and business administration and urban studies. The SUMMA funds are also financing the new Institute for Advanced Reli­gious Studies, a unique center estab­lished for the purpose of post­doctoral research on problems in which religion plays a major role. 
The largest segment of the funds raised through SUMMA will be de­voted to faculty development. The University is seeking to establish 40 endowed professorships in addition to keeping faculty salaries competitive and providing for normal growth. 
Part of the $52 million will also aid in enlarging other areas of Uni­versity activity, including new build­ings, educational television, foreign study, student aid and library development. 
Twenty-seven of the 63 cities which were assigned quotas have exceeded their goals. They include San Fran­cisco; Denver; Hartford; Atlanta; Quad Cities and Rockford-Freeport, 111.; Baltimore; Boston; Muskegon, Mich.; Kansas City; the northern New Jersey cities; Albany and Poughkeepsie; Cincinnati, Columbus and Youngstown; Tulsa; Philadelphia and Pittsburgh; Providence; and Appleton and Green Bay, Wis. 

William C. Schmitt '10, flanked in an earlier pose by Rev. Edward P. Joyce and 



Schmitt: '69 Sorin Award * 
One of Notre Dame's greatest honors and one of Notre Dame's greatest men — in order they are the Edward 
F. Sorin Award and William C. Schmitt '10. Just before his death July 13, the S2-year-old alumnus had been presented the 1969 Sorin Award at his bedside in Portland, Ore­gon's, Gard Convalescent Home. 
Named after ND's founder, the annual award is given for distin­guished service to the University. William Schmitt fit the bill perfect­ly. For over 60 years he served the University as an alumni leader, bene­factor and member of the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering. 
The 135-pound, all-position foot­ball player attended ND from 1906­1910 and played the gridiron sport all four years. Schmitt was the last living member of the 1909 team. After his graduation from ND, Schmitt went to Portland where he played football for the Multnomah Athletic Club. He then moved on to a coaching position at the Univer­sity of Portland where he coached for a time. 
After spending time in football life Schmitt settled down in Portland to become a highly successful business­man. In 1921, he organized 
Schmitt Steel, Inc., and served as 
president and chairman of the board. 
Schmitt's home during the Irish football season wasn't Portland, but the Morris Inn on the University campus. He was one of the few men allowed to travel to games with the team and held a seat of honor on the Irish bench for all home games. He was also made an honorary member of the athletic board. 
Ed "Moose" Krause, athletic direc­tor at ND, described Schmitt as a walking chamber of commerce for Portland and the Northwest, and one of ND's biggest recruiters in his part of the country. 
Perhaps two paragraphs of the citation presented to Schmitt most aptly describe his feelings and con­tributions to his community and the University. "Bill had the compre­hensive interests of many Notre Dame engineers. He followed with interest and with assistance the fortunes of the University of Portland. He was dedicated to athletics, especially foot­ball and track, and was a pillar of the influential Multonomah Club of Portland. With no children of his own. Bill was enthusiastic about 
5?;{i^'.'!gyjji&?.-;'s?5j;i-f^^figif»{j?a"sysaaa:g8!is^ 
iiUm 

^^'°^'^''^'°'"''**''**«»°"*"'°°'^^ 
COLU3MN 
Ref leetloiis on a timely reminder 
By Richard W. Conklin Director of Public Information 
\Mr. J. Arthur Haley. 



I designee dies 
young men in sports and education. Some of his generosity and interest would show through his modesty, although no one can estimate how much is buried in the hearts of those he helped. 
But Notre Dame has remained throughout his lifetime a constant magnet for his loyalty, his activity, his unselfish efforts and his generous contributions. As a member of the Alumni Board, 1951-54, Bill con­tributed his common sense and his great kindness to the turbulence that began to grow on the campus with the forward thrust of the Hesburgh administration and the intensive pro­grams of the Notre Dame Foundation. Change found no resistance from Bill unless it jeoparidzed the Uni­versity. Few of the younger members of the Board during those years could match his enthusiasm for these changes that marked great advance­ment. His sound background and his outspoken principles were mingled with a deep charity and a rich humor. 
William C. Schmitt is as properly a recipient of the Edward Frederick Sorin award as he is properly a val­ued product that must have been in the mind of the Founder from the first." 
"I see no basis for compromise on the basic proposition that forcible co­ercion and violent intimidation are unacceptable means of persuasion and unacceptable techniques of change in a university community, as long as channels of communica­tion and the chance for reasoned arguments are available." 
Those of you who remember that sentence from Father Hesburgh's now-famous Feb. 17 letter, raise your hand. 
Those with hands raised have in­exact memories. The sentence is actu­ally from the pen of Yale's presi­dent, Kingman Brewster, Jr., who also writes letters. The missive in which this sentence appears was written April 6, to the dean of his graduate school, who had asked for the Yale administration's position regarding student disruption. 
Father Hesburgh's letter was greeted by a media explosion which empha­sized its "hard line," in particular the "15-minute rule," which became a favorite oversimplification of some headline writers, a few cartoonists, and many of the 300 editorialists in the country who opined on the subject. 
The more subtle aspects of the letter — the acknowledgment of dry rot in society, of laudable idealism in students, and of the necessity of shared responsibility for change in the university — were picked up by the more perceptive commentators {The New York Times, the Louisville Courier-Journal, the Washington Post, and the Chicago Daily News, to name a few). 
As time went on. Father Hesburgh 
got ample media space for the "soft 
edge" of his message, particularly in 
the national news coverage attendant 
on his letter to Vice-President 
Agnew, his interview with A.P.'s 
education editor, and his commence­
ment address at St. Louis University. 
The "hard edge" has pinched the nerve endings of a society plainly confused and irritated by wire service roundups on campus confrontations which ironically had come to re­semble Vietnam wrap-up stories. But what has really lasted from Father Hesburgh's letter is precisely the thought echoed by Brewster and found in virtually every important sub­sequent statement on campus unrest, from the American Council on Edu­cation statement through the special report of the President's Commission on Violence to the postoccupation logos of the Harvard Arts and Letters faculty. 
This is not to imply that Brewster or (God forbid) the Harvard Arts and Letters faculty cribbed from Father Hesburgh's letter. The point is that they all borrowed from the same source: a liberal tradition which has supported freedom of action to a point where such action de­stroys freedom. Where that point is has been a matter of lively debate from Plato to Marcuse, and those interested in preserving an atmo­sphere in which that debate — and others — can take place will find it hard to disagree with Father Hes­burgh and Kingman Brewster. 
History will prove whether Father Hesburgh's letter was a timely re­minder of a viable tradition or the dying gasp of a discredited culture. I hope it turns out to be the former. 

A Roman adventure XD 
James L. Kinnane 

Kiniiane joius PR & D staff 
James L. Kinnane, Fullerton, Calif., has joined the University of Notre Dame staff as assistant director of the Notre Dame Foundation in charge of the Los Angeles, Calif., office. He will be responsible for foundation activities in a 15-state area, includ­ing the West Coast and Rocky Moun­tain states. 
Kinnane is a graduate of ND's Class of 1957. Following graduation he joined the sales promotion staff of Armour & Company in Chicago. After active duty with the Army, he spent seven years in various sales positions with the Addressograph-Multigraph Corporation office in Hammond, Ind. 
In 1965, he joined the National Sugar Refining Company's Krim-Ko division as district representative for Northern Illinois and Indiana and in 1967 was transferred to California. Since then he has been district rep­resentative for Southern California and Arizona for the Krim-Ko division. 
Kinnane has been active in church groups and N D club activities in both Lake County, Ind., and Orange County, Calif. He is married to the former Lynn Ann Lazzareschi, and the couple lives with their four children at 1024 E. Nutwood in Imagine: It's almost the end of a long, hard winter. The cold weather has kept you in one day too long. You want to get away from it all. The travel bug is again beginning to fly around in your mind. You want to go somewhere and do something different. For a long time, you've dreamed of Europe. 

There's a way for your dreams to become reality. How about an Escapade to Rome? 
Jim (Mr. Notre Dame) and Marion Armstrong are hosting a nine-day tour to Rome for all ND alumni and their immediate family during Holy Week, March 22-31.1970. 
The escapaders will fly from New York to Rome and back again via chartered TWA Starstream 707 jets. While in Rome, the travelers will stay in a superior hotel, with private baths. Included in the package are two meals a day, guided tours and a visit to Vince McAloon's famous Notre Dame Hospitality House in Rome. 
The host and hostess are expert travelers. They have set foot on most of America's soil and have crossed the ocean to see the other side of life. The following describes Jim and Marion Armstrong's feelings on this Roman holiday opportunity. 
"Only the experience can ade­quately describe itself. Here are no nebulous highlights of religion or history. Here are the streets Saints Peter and Paul once walked. Here arc the catacombs which hid the saints and martyrs. Here is the Forum where Caesar ignored the Ides of March. Here the echoes of Cicero continue to denounce Carthage. Here the seeds of government by the people were bearing fruit before 
Fullerton. 

St. Peter's Square, Rome, Italy — home of the Irish! 

[* I style 
Christ was born. The centuries-old procession of the highlights of our heritage seem to come alive in Rome as no place else. The current Church, the current films, the current styles — all making history in our time — have difliculty in capturing our attention (except in seeing in person the magnetic Paul VI, or in relaxation on the Via Veneto). A lifetime would fall far short of ex­hausting the attractions of Rome. But even a few days provide indelible and inspiring memories." 
Total cost for the Roman Escapade is S.'!69 per person, plus S14 for taxes, services and gratuities. For further information, alumni should contact James D. Cooney of the ND Alumni Association. Seating capacity is limited; thus reservations will be made on a first come first served basis. 

Summertime fun at ND. 

Mini atliletes invade eaiiipiis 
Last year, Notre Dame's eight-man varsity basketball squad and assistant coach offered their services to the South Bend community in a unique athletic program called "Reach-Up." This year, the entire athletic com­munity at ND lent its services nation­wide. A Summer Sports Camp, the first of its kind at ND, began June 9 and continued through August 2, sharing with a national public the instructional excellence in athletics for which the University is traditional­ly known. 
Instructed by ND's varsity coaches and assisted by athletes, 500 young people, 50 per cent of whom were sons of alumni, from as far west as Washington and as far east as Connecticut, learned the ins and outs of football, basketball, baseball, hockey, golf,' tennis, track, wrestling, weight lifting, fencing and swim­ming. The young female even had a chance to participate, learning both figure and free-style skating skills from Lynn Haglund, former Miss Indiana and a gold medal winner in the United States and Canada. 
Along with the new Athletic and Convocation Center's up-to-date recreational facilities and a nationally famous coaching staff, the ND Summer Sports Camp put physical education into the collegiate setting with participants staying in ND residence halls and eating at campus dining halls. 
The summer program was divided into four sessions, each lasting a period of two weeks. Participating in the sports camps were boys from ages 8-16, organized into two groups, S-12 years and 13-16 years. 
BRIEFS 
An ND first 
For the first time in the history of the University, more than half of the students received financial aid during the past academic year, according to a report compiled by the Office of Financial Aid and Scholarships. A total of 3,217 undergraduates, 53 per cent of the undergraduate student body, received financial aid totaling $4,486,518 in the 1968-69 academic year. 

Summer §cliool 
A total of 488 persons received degrees at summer commencement exercises August 1 at ND. Twenty-nine undergraduate degrees, 440 master's degrees and 19 doctorates were conferred by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, acting president of the University, at ceremonies in the Athletic-Convocation Center arena. Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president and director of ND's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, delivered the commencement address. 

Consortium 
Notre Dame has joined 47 other universities in forming a consortium to foster cooperation among univer­sities, other research organizations, and the U.S. government for the advancement of space research. ND is the only Catholic university in­volved. Entitled the Universities Space Research Association (USRA), the consortium expects to acquire, plan, construct and operate lab­oratories and other facilities for re­search, development and education associated with space science and technology. 

Rockefeller grant 
A $290,000 grant from the Rocke­feller Foundation will enable the University to participate in a Foun­dation program for the assignment of scholars overseas. The grant will be administered by the Institute for International Studies, headed by Dr. Stephen Kertesz, professor of gov­ernment and international studies at ND. The program provides key academic scholars to selected uni­versities in Asia, Africa and Latin America until such time as local faculty would be fully qualified in sufficient numbers. 
In this era ol unending search — tor the secrets ol' the moon's crusl. tor answers about the murky depths ol the oceans, lor the ultimate expansion ol' man's intellectual capabilities, lor an end to human suliering and in­justices — an age-old qucsl thai h.;s sulTered countless Lipscs ihrougiunu history is being revi\eti ,i; Noire Dame. The search for I'eacc among men. 
Willi the Winds 'I iiv;ik \ou'\e pu; NvHir linger on soniclhing. aiui I'll d^'' anything 1 CLIII io b.Cip. including looking 'or nuMiev. I'.iilions arc being spent annualK lor una! is ui'.imate!;. violence. SurcK somLv-nc n-.ust be interested in inxesiing iri nonviolence." Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC. in earl\- March signaled the lormal initiation of the l'ni\ersiiy's new pi\>­gram tor the study and practice ol non\iolent resolution oi human con­flict. 

The prosram Ls iinderi;raduafc in na­lurc and will concern itself with inter-p.sychic and interpersonal conflict rather than iironp conflict. 
.Speaking to some .''N student leaders who had proposed the pro­gram to him in response to his earlier appeals lor suggestions on how to cope with violence. I-'r. Hesburgh pledged his support to the project. He said. "There has to be a better way of solving human conflict than violence. We are coming to a point where we have the ultimate in violence and it is not a viable answer to any human conflict because it destroys all people involved.'" 
The new program, the lirst o\ its kind in the country, is in preliminary operation during the summer months and is scheduled to expand in the fall. It will consist oi a basic under­graduate curriculum of seminar courses designed to explore the liter­ature of violence and nonviolence: investigate the psychology of human aggression; study the social efl'ects ot violence in the mass media: and discuss reports and papers issued or forthcoming from such groups as the President's national commission on nonviolence. 
.Shortly after meeting with the student leaders. Fr. Hesburgh ac­cented a SI00.000 gift fronrthe Gulf 




Program on nonviolence 
oil Corporation, which will be used in large part to fund the project. In awarding Notre Dame the gift. Dr. .Mex Lewis. Jr.. a senior vice-president at Gulf, said. "We are particularly attracted to this project because it was initiated by students. We view the constructive participation of students 
in the life of our universities as a hopeful sign of the continuing strength of the nation's institutions of higher learning and one which deserves support." 
The program proposal was actually an olVshoot of a collegiate seminar course taught by Prof. Charles McCarthy. In reading the works of pacifist Thomas Merton. McCarthy and his students developed the opinion that an option to study and live the precepts of nonviolence was proper in a university, especially a Catholic university. Subsequently, the seminar students approached a cross section of the student leadership, which eventually led to the proposal of the program to Fr. Hesburgh. 

After receiving encouragement and financial support, the program he-came a reality. McCart'iv acud as 
head of the project from its inception 
in March until being oflicially des­ignated as director in May. In the months of early organization, a com­mittee of students and faculty met regularly to discu.ss basics and detail plans for the program. A number of experts were consulted on the meth­ods for setting up the unique project. Among those who visited ND were Dr. William Kla.ssen and Dr. John Yoder. both well-known apostles of 
no'iviolence based at the Mcnnonite 
Sc ':v.iry in nearby Goshen. Ind.: 
and Gordon Zahm, a renown Catholic 
i'.-.-ifisl iiu! chairman of the Amer­
ican Catholic Association to Promote 
Peace. 
Preliminary organization h;is in­cluded the hiring of a full-time faculty member to assis; McCarthy with the four seminar sections to be OlTered in the fall. He is James W. Dougla.ss, a professor of religion at the University of Hawaii and author of Tlw Noil Violent Cross, acclaimed 
as one of the ten best works in theology in 1968. A bibliography of 700 volumes relating to the study of nonviolence has been compiled and will be available to students in the fall. 
Our chief concern will be to offer people the opportunity to develop a nonviolent life style and to make avail­able to them the tool.s by which they can continue that life .style after leav­ing the University. 
In discussing the program, Mc­Carthy explains that it is different from anything currently in existence in this country because ""it is con­cerned with interpsychic and inter­personal conflict rather than inter­group conflict, which is under investi­gation by a number of other groups. Ours is also primarily undergraduate in nature and. at least initially, its chief concern will be to offer an opportunity to lay a foundation in the nonviolent life style and to make available to people the tools by which they can continue that life style after they leave the University. It is based upon the conception that a nonviolent society or nonviolent insti­tutions are initially the fruits of nonviolent men — and not the other way around." 
The original plan was to offer one seminar course limited to 20 students in the fall, but demand was so great during spring registration — 250 to 300 students requested the course — that three sections were added. McCarthy hopes it will be possible to expand the interdisciplinary program for the second semester and continue expansion until a full-scale curriculum is in operation. He feels the project may possibly develop into a major or minor at the University, quite probably falling into .some already-existing department. "One of the reasons \ve"re not sure of the struc­tural lorm is that the program has potential in many areas. We plan to evaluate its impact on the University community and go from there." he said. 
The following is an interview with Prof. McCar-hy concerning vio­lence and nonviolence in American societv. 
Prof. Charles McCarthy. 

A diseassion -. . 
ALUMNUS: Would you describe nonviolence in its modern context? 
MCCARTHY: Nonviolence is the most exacting form of conflict reso­lution. It isn't a subversive tactic or strategy used simply to get what one wants — an idea that seems prevalent today. It is a life style, a total com­mitment to a way of confronting the ambiguities and conflicts of human enstence. It is therefore impossible to be nonviolent in demonstrations aimed at the draft or war and, at the same time, be violent with regard to familial or other interpersonal rela­tionships. Ultimately, nonviolence is the refusal to treat a person as a thing for one's own self-indulgence. To exploit a human being for the purpose of protecting or gratifying "my self image of me" is at least as violent as physical injury. For a person then becomes either "some­thing in the way oF' or "something to pave the way to" my personal ambitions — alibi for the good of the company or the good of humanity. 
When one continually degrades people in this way, he gradually desensitizes his conscience with re­gard to the moral obligation to treat people as people. We must admit that evidence is not lacking as to the depths of insensitivity to which the best of men have been reduced once they have resorted to treating people as things or statistics. 

ALUMNUS: Is man basically violent and if so, isn't war a biological necessity? 
MCCARTHY: Whether man is in­nately violent is open to the most serious doubt. But to develop this supposed "killer instinct" in man to the point cf declaring "war is in our genes" is simply to manufacture another self righteous cliche for the absolution of our aims of mass violence. Obviously, if man is in­nately violent he cannot be blamed for condoning, ignoring or profiting from the violence of others. Ad­mittedly, the primary point of war is to kill as many human beings as possible who are on the other side. But war is systematically planned and executed violence. It requires some­thing far different than a "killer instinct" for-most people. If the "killer instinct" were a predominant impetus for men to go to war, nations would not have to employ conscrip­tion or use such inducements as high pay, travel and free education in order to field an army. 

ALUMNUS: Hasn't violence been commonplace throughout history and especially the history of this country? 
MCCARTHY: violence is one of the first consequences of original sin. And the oldest fossil of man we have is the fossil of a young boy who had probably been murdered. This does not necessarily indicate that man is instinctively violent, because all carnivores have innate inhibitions against killing their own species except rats and men. And even these two animals are prohibited from killing within the pack, tribe, family or nation of which they ate a part. The nation-state, which is over 6,000­years-old, is the last successful human invention for extending the size of the pack — the group within which killing and other forms of violence are prohibited and punished instead of honored and rewarded. The na­tion-state, or pack if you will, known as the U. S. A. has probably been no more violent than any other such group in history. But what differen­tiates the historical perspective from the present-day perspective is the fact that our society is the most heavily armed pack in history, with some 200 million privately-owned weapons and an almost unlimited government arsenal. Also, the larger pack, the 
nation-state, is breaking up into smaller packs whose interests are basically antagonistic. The potential for intensified violence in this country has obviously increased considerably. 

ALUMNUS: Is there any way to extend the size of the human pack in order to reduce violence? 
MCCARTHY: World government is of course one way; but this is a remote possibility at the moment. Yet I think structures are already in existence which could extend the size of the human pack almost immedi­ately. It seems to me that what we need is a "trans-pack pack" — that is a pack that would include large numbers of people from various other packs for whom it would not only be unacceptable to kill or harm or do violence to a member of their own pack but it would also be unaccept­able to kill or harm a member of the "trans-pack pack" to which they would also belong. The Church is a "trans-pack pack," and it may very well be recognizing the necessity to begin to preach the gospel of being 
like sheep among wolves instead of being like rats among wolves. To paraphrase a student slogan: "Sup­pose someone gave a war and the Christians refused to kill or harm 
Ultimately, nonviolence is tiie refnsal to treat a person as a Odag for oa^s own self-indulgence. 
one another." Tm not saying that this would be a total cure but I am saying that it would be a giant step forward for mankind if the Church would preach, as a minimum standard of morality, the absolute immorality of one follower of Christ killing another follower of Christ. 
ALUMNUS: Has nonviolence ever become a life style in a given society? 
MCCARTHY': Yes. People tendto look at nonviolence as something practiced by ascetics like Christ, St. Francis and Gandhi. It is important to realize that the first two centuries of Christianity, for the 200 years closest (o Christ, the Christian com­munity throughout the world was totally nonviolent. It was not until the Church became involved with the state, until Constantine raised the cross and the sword together, until Christianity began to equate its survival with the survival of the Roman empire, that it diluted its doctrine and accepted the inverted cross. 
ALUMNUS: Is the use of violence justified anywhere in the New Testament? 
MCCARTHY: No. It is impossible for me to picture Christ "going down with His guns blazing." Since it's impossible to picture Him in that way, ifs impossible to follow or imitate Him in that way. To imitate or follow Christ, individually and collectively, is what Christianity is all about. 
ALUMNUS: What about the "cleansing of the temple" incident? 
MCCARTHY: The real question here is one of "good faith." Is it possible for a "good faith" follower of Jesus Christ to take one or two peripheral passages from the Bible, place them opposite the rest of the gospel and use these passages to justify in the name of Christ all forms of socially acceptable and legalized violence, from tongue lashings to robberies to the slaughter of war? Biblical scholars are agreed that the whole significance of the "cleansing" is Messianic and that the "whip," which is only mentioned in John, is an emblem of authority consistent with the Jewish tradition of the Messiah and the author's use of symbolism. If one wishes to under­stand the "cleansing" literally, he should keep in mind that a correct rendering of the Greek version — the language of the New Testament — makes it clear that the whip was used only on the animals being sold for 

Our society is the most heavily armed pack in history, with sonic 200 million privately owned weapons and an al­most nnlimited government arsenal. 
"The only alternatives now are non­violence or nonexistence." 
sacrifice in the court of the temple. The Greek word that can be trans­lated into English as "cast out" or "drove" or "sent forth" can be legitimately read without a hint of violence. Finally, when Christ says, "My house will be called a house of prayer," He is quoting Isaiah which reads, "For my house will be called a house of prayer for all people." Ironically, the very passage which was meant to point the world toward unity and brotherhood has been implemented to keep men at swords length. But again, the basic problem is not one of exegisis; it is one of "good" or "bad" faith. 
ALUMNUS: Is there a time, place or situation when the oppressed may justifiably use violence? 
MCCARTHY: In society today, there is an accumulation of wealth and power in the hands of a relative few and because of this situation, those few are able to control many. The term oppressor has evolved to mean those who control and oppressed has come to mean the masses. On purely practical grounds it seems unrealistic to me that the oppressor is going to treat the oppressed as a person if the oppressed treat him as a thing. If the oppressed use violent means to achieve goals, even if they achieve them as completely as they did in Russia in 1917, all that takes place is a change of oppressors. In order for the oppressed to make any long-term positive gains for mankind, they must be primarily concerned with touching the heart of the oppressor rather than his wealth or source of power. 
ALUMNUS: What happened to the nonviolent movement that became popidar within the civil rights move­ment in the last decade? 
MCCARTHY : unfortunately, it is all but gone. The people simply didn't respond and they're probably sorrj' now because the situation is totally different than when Martin Luther King got up before a church filled with black people of different causes and asked them over and over again, "If there is blood to be shed, whose blood is it?" and they would respond, "Ours." There was some fantastic potential involved but people didn't respond to the injustices the movement was pointing out, because they saw Negroes as things that were interferring with their own self in­dulgence, and not as persons. They did not respond to the pain that was 
being inflicted upon these people. I don't know if we can expect Negroes to do anything but respond violently considering the injustices to which they are subjected and the inhuman conditions in which they live. We don't know what it is to be eaten by rats, to be hungry, to be uneducated. Using this frustration-tension­aggression idea, the fantastic frus­tration of the uneducated black man, who sees a false image of America on television, an image which isn't his but which he thinks belongs to most other people, can be seen. He has almost nothing to lose by striking out violently. The civil right's non­violent movement are to be gone and its violent aspects are to be here. We don't seem to be doing anything to diffuse this sort of violence. We seem to be propagating the thing on television. As it is now, it is almost that to be black is to be violent. The white man knows how to handle violence, but not non­violence. People who are involved with manipulating the mass media, the oppressors, would rather have the Negro fighting violently because they can justify violence, but they don't know how to justify a response to someone who is living with rats, 
who is uneducated, poor and living in the worst human conditions. 
ALUMNUS: How do you explain the contradiction between the non­violence advocated by modern day pacifists and the violence that seems to accompany their movements? 
MCCARTHY: The same thing can be said of Gandhi. He was a non­violent person, but tremendous violence took place wherever he had a strike. When you say violence follows them wherever they go, you must ask who is inflicting the violence and who is receiving the violence. With King, those inflicting the violence were the Bull Connors and those receiving the violence were the protesting Tjlacks and whites. This becomes important because it is just the other way around, for example, in war, where everyone inflicts violence and everyone receives violence. 

ALUMNUS: It has been said that nonviolent movements are in fact blackmail. Would you comment? 
MCCARTHY: Gandhi once said, "The blackmail of a nonviolent move­ment is the blackmail of the cross." Christ hanging on the cross calls for a certain response and it is not a soldier lancing His side with a spear. A nonviolent black or white asking for food, education, for a rat-free environment for his children, for things that are rightfully his, calls for a certain response. That response is not the continuation of the legalized or socially-condoned violence that initially denied these human beings their absolute human rights. 
ALUMNUS: It it psychologically healthy to release or express violent feelings? 
MCCARTHY: Years ago there was a famous cartoon on the cover of a weekly magazine that ran something like this. At 8 in the morning, the wife of the chairman of the board was yelling at the chairman. At 8:15, he was yelling at the company presi­dent. This transferrence of aggres­sion took place all day until 5 when a clerk was yelling at a sub-clerk who went home and yelled at his wife, the wife at the children, the children at the dog, the dog at the cat, and the cat at a rat who ran into a hole These people are adjusting by trans­ferring their aggressions to someone or something else — by attacking the cause or the symbolic cause of the tension which is always outside the "self." The prime question today is: Is any frustration caused outside the person or is all frustration internal? Psychology has demonstrated that aggression can reduce tension but that it doesn't solve problems. Rather it tends to aggravate the conflict situation. 
ALUMNUS: How do the philos­ophies that seem to be prevalent in society today relate to the concept of nonviolence? 
MCCARTHY: Basically they are anathema to the development of a nonviolent life style. People today seem to be clinging madly and blindly 
to securities which they refuse to rationally examine for fear of finding them meaningless. They continue to believe on blind faith that the idol­atrous vulgarity of our commercial environment is full of life. They con­tinue to believe on blind faith the moron attitudes of Madison Avenue, whether mouthed by politicians or pretty faces. They continue to be­lieve that life and salvation come from a depersonalized abundance of things outside themselves. We have reached a point in society where millions of people are so over stimulated and therefore desensitized that they will do physical, psychologi­cal and even spiritual violence to each other in order to defend a way of life that they refuse to seriously examine. Such a spirit in society obviously cannot reinforce or help develop a nonviolent life style. 
ALUMNUS: Is nonviolence practi­cal today? 
MCCARTH Y : is violence practical? If it's practical, what is it practical for? Is war, the mass slaughter of human beings in the name of some principle, the practical resolution of human conflict? Is power-politics, the greed-oriented manipulation of people backed by the threat or use of legal­ized or socially acceptable force, practical resolution of human con­flict? Does a race riot really resolve conflict? Does the philosophy of "might makes right" masquerading as Christianity or democracy ever resolve conflict? In fact, it is patently unreasonable to think that a resolu­tion of conflict has been reached when one party has been brought to the point of agreement by the other party's ability to inflict suffering or harm? Violence is not practical as a means of resolving human conflict. It only sustains and intensifies the root of the evil against which it is directed. The strongest argument for the nonviolent resolution of human conflict is that ultimately it is the only form of conflict resolution that cures rather than contracts the illness. As Martin Luther King once said "The only alternatives now are nonviolence or nonexistence." 

"Suppose someone gave a war and the Christians refused to kill or harm one another." 
'•.'Ti.^"^->?V-^-r--v'^-*-^v '•r.r'r ^^--i.'I-W^^^^^1^w^•iJCy•l?.^^^^^'1?^,^V^j*??y•g^^^ 
CLASSES 



a completely unique 
EXPERIENCE! 
isi|,ivaaB°Ba 

Thanks for correspondence: CARLETON 
They came, they saw, they enjoyed! BEH, BILL BRADBURY, BILL GRADY, 
'15 A BIG JOB News about ARTHUR R. CARMODY came from his good wife. She reports that Art has been in the hospital with a heart condition and some complications "so God and the doctors had a big job to make him well." Art is home and is able to attend Mass on Sunday. They have 16 grand­children ranging from 1 to 16. Ilie Carmodys reside at 447 Sherwood Rd., Shreveport, La. 70106. A note from ROBERT L. ROACH informed me that in April he underwent surgery of a serious nature. He spent a month in the hospital and "had a very rough time of it" Bob had planned to attend the reunion this year but didn't feel up to it The parents of RONALD HUGH CARTER '48 were among the 151 passengers who were victims of civil aviation's worst disaster, the crash Sunday, March 16, of the Venezuelan DC-9 jetliner near Maracaibo, Venezuela. A memorial service for Mr. and Mrs. Patrick J. Carter was held at St. Francis Xavier Church in LaGrange, 111., March 24. Ronald Carter is associated with Central Steel and Wire Co. and resides at 525 S. Waiola Ave., LaGrange, 111. 60525. Late in May, word was received from our alumni secretary regarding the death of MARCH FORTH WELLS LL.B. 15, May 19, 1969. A Mass expressing the Alumni Association's condolence and proper remembrance was said Sunday, June 1. Fellow alumni will no doubt add Masses and prayers. The Wells" home address is 1901 E. Taylor St., Bloomington, 111. 61701. 
Thanks to JAMES F. O'BRIEN '13 for the news of the death of EUGENE A. KANE '14. He died suddenly after a long illness. Jim O'Brien said "he was a grand fellow and a good friend of mine." A son, EUGENE F. KANE JR. '47, resides at 27002 Wolt Rd., Bay Village, Ohio 44140. 
Mary Ruth, wife of DANIEL E. HILGARTNER JR. Ph.B. '17, died Sunday, Jime 15, in her home at 7172 Horseshoe Dr., Harbert, Mich. 49115. The funeral Mass was said Wednesday at St. Agnes Church, Saginaw, Mich., with interment at Calvary Cemetery, Evanston, 111. Surviving besides her husband are a son, Daniel E. Ill; a sister, Mrs. E. W. Fitzgerald of Winnetka, 111.; a brother, George F. Hurley of Pasadena, Calif.; and two granddaughters. 
Your attention is called to the flash in' the '17 column of the June issue of the ALUMNUS: "Pope Paul has bestowed the Apostolic marriage blessing on the HILGARTNERs, who obser\ed their golden wedding anniversary June 7." 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
LaGrange, 111. 60525 
'17 NO RESPONSE, ETC., ETC. During the last year we attempted to conduct a great-grandchildren contest based on the theory that the little demons are the closest to the hearts of those who have 'em but you are right, no response. Those with the mostest could be JACK CASSIDY, SHERWOOD DIXON or DUKE RILEY, in alphabetical order, as you will note. Next we asked for your low gross golf score to try to organize a contest No response. Of course, we know that 
HUGHIE O'NEILL is our best golfer but 
he is so modest that he would not even 
report a hole in one. How about you, 
PAUL FOGARTY, did you have one this 
past season or do you play every day in 
Florida? 
Here is a gem by our class poet; 
THE FIRST FIFTY YEARS ARE 
THE HARDEST 

At times, while I've been growing old 
I must admit regret. 
For all the things unlearned, undone. 
That I have missed and yet 
There are some compensations to 
Reward advancing years. 
And one of them is to compare 
At the risk of being called a square •' 
What I would term the good old days 
in contrast to more current ways. 
My grandsons think I'm going nuts 
and argue with ifs, ands and buts 
The competition; dog eat dog 
Promotes much useless dialogue; 
The demands that slowly roil 
the peptic glands bring ulcers 
If there is advancement every day Step on the other fellow's neck With no glance back to view the wreck If this is what it takes in '69 Then I'll bow out; my rocking chair is fine. 
JOHN URBAN RILEY 

Note that the Duke admits he has a rocker. Let's have more of these and make life easier for your secretary. How about it, Paul Fogarty? 
Please pray for the repose of the soul of Mary Ruth Hilgartner, the beloved spouse of your correspondent, who died suddenly on June 15, one week and one day after we celebrated our golden wedding anniversary with a Mass of thanksgiving. 
Daniel E. Hilgartner Jr. P.O. Box 75 Harbert, Mich. 49115 
'18 THE RETURN June 6, returned to the Irish Promised Land. Attended the 50 Year Club and Class of '19 dinner. Those who attended the dinner at the Morris Inn are listed at the end of this column. JAMES L. SWEENY'18,1254 MOwaukee Ave., Denver, Colo. 80206, and NEIL J. WHALEN '18, 1203 Cadieux Rd., Grosse Pointe Park, Mich., were unable to attend. Rev. Con Haggerty's CSC presence was appreciated. Is the picture of good health. JAMES E. ARMSTRONG told us to expect girls soon at class reunions. PAUL KASPER and BILL CORROLL joined us as guests. Birthday greetings go to STEPHEN H. HERR '10, 214 E. Hickory St, Chatsworth, 
111. 60921 (Aug. 8); ALVIN H. BERGER '15, RRJt2, Sturgis, Mich. 49091 (Aug. 8); RICHARD NASH '12, 2800 Jackson St, Sioux City, Iowa 51104 (Aug. 13); LOUIS 
H. FOLLET 18, 1303 W. Oak St, Norristown, Pa. 19401 (Sept 3). 
Rev. C. L. DOREMUS CSC—Ordina­tion day, Aug. 4, Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
CHARLES W. BACKMAN and Paul J. Fogarty will celebrate their wedding anniversaries Aug. 1. LOUIS E. WAGNER will celebrate his Aug 2. 
JOHN LEMMER, RED MONROE, B. A. 
MUNECAS, DOC NIGRO, WHITEY 
WHALEN and H. S. CARROLL. 
Missed last issue—on vacation. Wishing 
you all to live to be 100. Enjoying the 
best of health. 
Peace. 
George B. Waage '18 
3305 Wrightwood Ave. 
Chicago, Ul. 60647 
SO Year Club Attendees 
JOSEPH POULIX '04, ALBERT GUSHURST '09, EDWARD RIELY '15, JOHN B. KANNALEY '09, STEPHEN HERR '10, TOM HUGHES 'II, RICHARD J. MOXROE '12. RICH.'\RD NASH '12, WALT CLEMENTS 14. LEO ZGODZINSKI '14, WILLIAM M. CARROLL '13. TIMOTHY GALVIN '16, PATRICK ^L^LONEY '16, JOHN E. CASSIDY '17, BILL GR.\DY '17, LEO J. VOGEL '17. BERNARD VOLL '17. WILLI.AM J. .ANDRES '18, J. L. SWEENEY '18, GEORGE \V.\AGE '18. NEIL J. WH.ALEN '18, REV. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS '18. 
'» THE SPECTACULAR WAS 
SPECTACULAR 

The spectacular of the year, our "Golden 
Reunion '69," was all that could be most 
fondly anticipated. 
Many real regrets were received from our classmates who were most anxious to attend, including HERMAN WINTERICH, RICHARD WHITE, WILLIAM MULLEN, LARRY TEALL, Rev. PHIL BEAGHAN CSC, DAN ROBERTS, JERRY O'CONNOR and Rev. FRANCIS WYSS. 
We sincerely regret having learned of the deaths of RICHARD P. DEVINE and EARL T. O'CONNOR '19 and are deeply grieved to receive the news. 
The following speech was prepared for deliveiy at the reunion by our class president and valedictorian, George D. Haller. Because there was no opportunity for George to give the speech then, we are printing it here. 
TRIBUTE TO CLASS OF '19 

(by George D. Haller) Fifty years ago this June I delivered the valedictory address from the Class of '19 to our school. This evening I would like to pay a tribute to my old companions—the boys I knew in the years between one sunny morning in Sept, 1911, and a bright June day eight years later. 
The ND I came to was a diiferent place from today's scene. I trapped muskrats along the shores of the lakes, where today's student deals with nuclear fission. I walked and talked with a brother who had been a companion of Father Sorin, where today's student notes in a history book that Sorin founded ND more than 125 years ago. 
ND was a small place. Its people, faculty and students were like a family, and the place was like a home. The customary titles of the religious members reinforced this sense of home and family—father, brother, sister. But now the sisters are long gone from the infirmary, kitchen and laundry; the brothers have transferred to the junior college across the Niles road; the fathers are departing from classroom lectern, from hall rectorships, even from the board of trustees. 
It may not be remembered today that the Class of '19 started out in '15 as the largest freshman group in the school's history up to that time. We were so numerous as to be tmwieldy. Our effort to elect our first class 
officers was finally given up in despair. Yet just four years later the Class of '19 graduated as the smallest senior group in at least the last 60 years. Where had they gone, the boon companions? A poet has given the answers: 
The ancient colleges looked down, on careless boys at play, But when the bugles sounded war, they put their games away. Cod rest those happy gentlemen, who laid their good lives down. Who took the khaki and the gun, in place of cap and gown. 
There are others about whom I know little of their later lives. I do know that MAURICE CARROLL, the architect, has left his monuments on St Maiy's campus. PAUL FENTON, professor here for nearly 50 years, has left his imprint on the minds of generations of students. TED RADEMAKER has for long devoted himself to the duties of class alumni secretary. LOUIS FINSKE started out in law and became a theatre corporation executive, but with time to take great interest in class affairs. BOB HUBER was a "day dodger," from 1912 to 1919, and looked little older on this SOth Reunion. 
For the rest I am sure each one accepted his station in life and strove to perform its obligations, because that was what ND taught us. So to the many who began so exuberantly in 1915, the smaller group for whom I spoke in 1919, and to the few still living, I tender the tribute of a race well run, and I pray that Cod will bless all. 
Ted Rademaker 154 W. 6th St. Peru, Ind. 46970 
1919 Attendees 
MAURICE CARROLL, PAUL FENLOX, TED RADEMAKER, LOUIS FIXSKE. GEORGE HALLER, ROBERT HUBER, HUGH LAVERY, GEORGE B. REINHARDT. 
•24 34 IN 'M; 34 IN '<9 In 1964 there were apparently 34 members of the Class of "24 at the reunion. In 1969 the number appears to have been the same, but four faces were gone, and four new men replaced them. Some, of us have again met for the last time. As I watched the faces and listened to the voices of the 16 (14 became lost in the Morris Inn) who remained housed in St Ed's Hall, I was reminded that here was the living proof of the hopes and expectations for the goals of tlie old-time Minums of the early 20's. These just had to be the often spoken of "true ND men"—men whose lives personified the training and the hopes of the Frs. Walsh, Bums, O'Hara, O'Malley, and all of the other equally holy priests of our time. They were true ND men in their young days and they remain unchanged after all these years, despite the confused times that envelop us. They were Catholics then and they are still Catholics now, as was evidenced by their Masses and Communions. Bed checks and Mass checks must have had their effects. The roll call went something like this: TOMS BARBER, COOK, DONOVAN and HODGSON; BILLS ASH, CONNORS, CROOK, DRENNAN and SHEEHAN; JOHNS HICKEY, McGOORTY, PETRICH and SULLIVAN; JAMES HURLEY and SWIFT; GEORGE BALDUS; ED CANTWELL; Rev. PHILLIP MOORE; CY BIRBECK; HUGH BOYLE; IRV CAREY; 
LEVI GENIESSE; EARL HURLEY; FARRELL JOHNSTON; PAUL KENNEDY; HAROLD LONDO; FRED MANCUSO; EUGENE MAYL; CLIFF NOONAN; WALT NOVESKY; BEN PISER; BOB REGAN and LARRY SPULLER. (I hope I didn't miss anyone.) 
For most of us the weekend was not only a delving into the past, but also a sobering facing of the present Today's students, some of whom made our stay so pleasant remind us (if we needed it) that only a very small percentage of their number ^ve all of the others a tarnished image. Permissiveness, like the umbrella of Chamberlain, is not the University's answer. The minutes-long standing ovation given to Fr. Hesburgh at the alumni banquet when he mentioned his "15-minute letter," gave adequate proof of the feeling of those present I'm sure that it shook him more than a little. 
Those of us who were fortunate enough to be present were the recipients of a real dividend, but we surely missed the absent ones. 
At the reunion, many of RICHARD F. GIBBONS' friends asked about him. For those of you who missed the notice in a previous issue of the ALUMNUS, Dick died Feb. 6, 1969, and is survived by his family at 20247 Blaver Dr., Saratoga, Calif. 95670. 
Leo C. Heringer 1108 Westview Dr. Normal, III. 61761 

1924 Attendees 
WILLIAM J. ASH, GEORGE BALDUS, TOM BARBER, CY BIRKBECK, HUGH BOYLE, ED CANTWELL, IRVING CAREY, WILLIAM CONNORS, THOMAS E. COOKE, WILLIAM CROOK, THOMAS DONOVAN, BILL DREN NAN, LEVI GENIESSE, DARROLD GOOLEY, LEO HERINGER, JOH.N H. HICKEY, THOMAS H. HODGSON, EARL C. HURLEY, JIM HURLEY, J. FARRELL JOHNSTON, P.\UL KEN.NEDY, DAVID BERNARD KING, HAROLD LONDO, FRED MANCUSO, GENE MAYL, JOHN Mc­GOORTY. CLIFF NOO.VAN, WALTER .NOVESKY, JOHN PETRICH. BE-N'JAMIN PISER, ROBERT P. REAGAN. BILL SHEEH.AN. LAWRENCE SPULLER, JOHN 
P. SULLIVAN, JIM SWIFT, W. HAROLD WELCH. 
•29 100 STRONG It was June and the voice of the grads was heard in our land. They came, a hundred strong, by plane, train and car from the East Coast and the West from the North woods and the Deep South. They were short and tall, garrulous and reticent just as they had been 40 years before when they were ND's boys of "29. They checked into Stepan Center as "elderly" professional and business men, only to emerge moments later as the guys in the white hats with the blue ND emblazoned on them. They bunked in Breen-Phillips, on the hallowed ground where as freshmen they had lived in a cardboard palace with a clapboard face that had a snaggle-toothed porch for a mouth. They met for cocktails Friday m'ght courtesy of JOE FRIEL and Seagram's, in the North Dining Hall. (Shades of the old refectory and its rectangular raisin pies!) They sat down to dinner with champagne, courtesy of JOE LENIHAN and a battalion of Christian Brothers. (Shades of J. HUGH O'DONNELL and theflying squadron in the Black Maria!) They heard formal speeches from Joe Lenihan, class president Father LOUIS THORNTON and others . . . informal ones from JOHN "CLIPPER" 
SMITH. PAUL T. ROSS, LOU HANEY, Dr. JOHN VAICHUUS and otheis. They .. invested JIM (Dr. JAMES W.) TOBIN as their new president and heanl a U^ ­heaited acceptance. Tbte^ swore in a fnB slate of officers and directon. And they sang the good old songs and talked the good (M talk. Then— 
Their spokesman. Rev. OTEY 
WINCHESTER, made a senoiB qieecfa, yet 
a warm contemjriative one. He singed ont 
a imique man, a dedicated and a devoted 
one. Otey praised him for his energy and 
his willingness thanked turn for setting 
up scores of after-game leceptiaas. for 
writing hundreds of letters that kd to 
timeless cohesiveness. Ot«y's was the vcnce 
but hundreds were the thou^ts that 
came shining throu^ And tbey presented a 
purse of $1,500 to LAWRENCE F. 
(LARRY) STAUDER. die reliable one, the 
responsible one, the perennial secretary who 
had never lost the faith that keeps peofde 
one. Lany accepted, nsodestly as the 
gentleman he is, and there was a crescendo 
of applause from men iriio had learned 
well, at this same Grotto-blest place, the 
lesson of appreciation. May die good Lord 
hold you in the hollow of His hand. Lany, 
for your selfless labors. 

Larry Slander 
Saturday morning they prayed for the souls of their 138 classmates who have crossed over the river to the other side, at a Mass concelebrated by Frs. Otis Winchester, GEORGE DUMM and JOSEPH. KRAKER JR. And then 100 men and a girl—Larry' Stauder's Margaret she proud and full of gratitude to men who were themselves so ' deeply grateful—sang "Holy God" in resonant choir. Then the class picture, brave with blue shirts and golden ties. 
Saturday nis^t after golf and gab, the guys in the white hats followed the skirling bagpipers to Stepan Center to join 2,000 others at the annual alumni dinner and to hear Fr. Ted's eIo(|uent discourse on ND—the place whiere youth and age grant no generation gap. 
Sunday morning it was raining—from an itinerant all-day cloud that had Indiana etched all over it So they puddle-jumped as of yore to the ahunni Mass in the <dd ruby that is the new sapphire of a restored Sacred Heart Churdi and knelt at OUara's tomb to pray once again for "The Pope" who had known and loved and shepheided all of them. And they saunteied by Soiin to glimpse the ^wsts of Roclme and Dr. Jdm Cooney and Charley Phillips and scores of other mentors who had b^^ted them with kindness. Hien back to Breen-Pbillips for the last lingering handshakes and tie quick 
departures with no Lot's-wife fear of the fleeting backward glance at the new ND which will always be their oldest love. 
Was it a vision or a waking dream? The '29ers will tell you it was neither. It was a rfiapsody of reality, one well worth a 40-year wait And so they went home, a hundred strong yet a hundred weak for the place that to the last man of them, will ever be the epitome of home. 
Franldyn E. Doan 1221 Middlebury Lane Whnette, 111. 60091 
1929 Attendees 
HAROLD BAIR, REV. JOSEPH B.ARRY, BERNARD J. BIRD, WILLI.\M .A. BISER, CLAIR J. BLACKALL, JI.M BRADY, RAYMO.VD BREEX, JOHN T. BURKE, PAUL BRYSSELBOUT, FRANCIS J. BUCKLEY, CLYDE BUNKER, HUGH C.\HALAN, TOM CASEY, JOH.\ F. COLANGELO, S.AM COLARUSSO, IRVT.V CORCORA.\, WILLRA.\F 
F. CRONIN, WILLARD CROTTY, FRANK CROWE, GERALD J. CROWLEY, J.AMES CURRY, JOSEPH F. DAUTREXIONT. ED DTBAE-NE, JAMES DIGAN. FRANKLYNE DOAN, EDWARD DONOHOE, JOHN DORGAN, REV. GEORGE L. DUM, REV. GREGORY EICHENLAUB, JOHN FARR, THOMAS FERRITER, DAVID A. FIELDS, FRANK FLYN.V, CU.M.MI.VGS GIARDINO, J. WALTER GREER, GAYLORD 
P. HAAS, LOU HA.\EY, RICHARD HAUGH, FRANK HAVELICK, PHIL HEMMI.NG, LYMAN HILL, JOHN V. HINKEL, KARL KASCHEWSKI, JOHN T. KE.ARNS, JAMES KELLY, JAMES KENNEDY, MARCELLUS KIRCHNER, KEN.NETH KONOP, ANTHONY J. KOPECKY, JOSEPH 
H. KRAKER, DO.VALD KREIS, EDWI.N 
E. LEACH, EDWARD J. LEAHY, JOSEPH LENIHA.\, TO.M MAHAFFEY, GEORGE J. MCDONNELL, STEVE MCL.\UGHLIN, THOMAS F. MCMAHON, STEVE MCPARTLIN, JOHN MEAGHER, ED 
MEDLANT), FR.ANCIS METRAILER, FRANCIS MEYER, LEO MICHUDA, EUGE.N'E MILLIFF, GEORGE M. MONROE, PETER MORGAN, ARTHUR MORLEY, WALTER MULFLUR, BILL NEFF, LOUIS NIEZER, FRA.NK O'BRIEN, RUSSELL O'BRIEN, JOE O'BRYAN, JI.M O'CONNOR, JOHN P. O'CONNOR, B. J. (PAT) O'LEARY, JEROME OUELLETTE, J. J. QUIN.N, LOUIS REGAN, JOHN T. ROURKE, PAUL ROSS, EDWARD S.AYRE, OLIVER F. SCHELL, ROLAND SCHL.\GER, GEORGE SCHMIDT, ROBERT SCHULZE, CLETE SCHNEIDER, JOHN P. SMITH, LARRY STAUDER, JOH.N SWEE.NY, JI.M TOBI.N, ROBERT M. TROTTER, R. B. VOGLEWEDE, CHARLES VON SOLBRIG, FRED WAGNER, ROBERT P. WILLIAMS, REV. OTIS WINCHESTER, MARC WONDERLIN, JAMES 
J. YATES, ALBERT ZOELLER. 
•34 A FIRST rOR TWO 
As your new secretary, I would like you to know that our first report has been completed and sent to the ALUMNUS. I have been informed that each column is limited to 750 words. Since our report is much longer than the limit TOM SULLIVAN, managing editor of the ALUMNUS, said he will mail the complete report to each of you in a special letter. 
I was surprised to learn that tjvo members of our class were attending their first reunion. One had not set foot on the campus since June 3, 1934, our graduation day. For those of you who have not returned to the campus in the last 10 years, I urge you to make the visit You will be highly pleased by the new college buildings, dormitories and the new Athletic and Convocation Center. The new library is also a work of beauty. 
I want to say "thank you" to BOB 

CAHILL and EDWARD "MOOSE" KRAUSE, the cochairmen of our reunion. Never have I seen a reunion run so smoothly. Our class dinner was held in the Monogram Room at the Athletic and Convocation Center. This is a PLUSH meeting room. The cocktails were great, and the meal a gourmet's delis t After partaking of this deb'cious dinner, we had reports from Robert Cahill and "Moose" Krause. Then to top it off, Ara Paise^iian gave a complete rundown on the 1969 squad. Ara was most optimistic about the coming season, despite the fact that the team lost 11 offensive linemen, who had earned their monograms. Having Aia was a special treat thanks to Moose. At the speaker's table were Frs. PAT DOLAN, TOM BRENNAN, and HIANK CAVANAUGH. All had remarks to make regarding our days at ND. 
Last but not least we had the privilege of hearing from our class valedictorian, RAYMOND J. MORRISSY, of Delavan. Wis. Ray had the entire room in an iipioar with his homespun philosophy. DAVE FROEHLICH said he is the "WiU Rogers" of the Class of '34. We finalized the meeting with a fixed vote for the class secretaiy. I won the election of sorts with the aid of two campaign managers, RAY TROY and JIM FAGAN. 
Saturday morning we had the class picture taken. During the afternoon, there were tours of the campus. On Saturday evening all the reunion classes ate together in Slepan Center. This beautiful structure was donated by ALFRED C. STEFAN JR. '31. There we heard about the latest developments at ND from Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC. Sunday morning most of the class attended Mass in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel. Mass was celebrated by Rev. EDWARD L. O'MALLEY, pastor of St Patrick's Church in Albany, N.Y. 
Now we are all getting in shape for our 40th reunion, and we invite all of you who sat this one out to make it a "must" in 1974. 
Ed Moran 
2501 N. Central Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60639 
1934 Attendees 
ANDREW AUTH, GENE BLISH, CHARLES BOLGER, HARRY BURCHELL, ROBERT CAHILL, JOHN CARR, CHARLES H. CARROLL, ROBERT CHENAL, JOE CLARK, JOHN CLAUDER, CLYDE CRAINE, FRANCIS T. CREGO, RUDY CRNKOVIC, EDWIN J. CUNNINGHAM, JAMES CURRAN, MAURICE CURRAN, TO.M DALTON, THOMAS C. DAVID, JACK DEVINE, WALT DUPRAY, WILLIAM M. OUSCH, JIM FAGAN, VINCE FEHLIG, JOHN F. FISHER, ED FITZ.MAURICE, ROBERT T, FITZSIMON, HUGH FITZGERALD, DAVID 
J. FROEHLICH, MARTIN GASPARDO, THOMAS R. GRIMES, EDMUND HAFNER, JOHN R. HAGAN, ROBERT H. HALPIN, BOB HA.MILTO.N, JOSEPH H. HANRATTY, CHARLES HAYES, CLARENCE T. HELLWIG, LEO HENDRICKS, TED HIEGEL, WILLIAM HUISKING, ROBERT KELLEY, WALTER KENNEDY, EDWARD KRAUSE, JOHN W. LACEY, CLYDE LEWIS, WILLIAM LEWIS, FRANK L. LINTON, FRANK C. MAHAR, PAUL MANOSKI, A.NTHONY MARRA, JOHN 
B. MARTIN, GEORGE MAR-HNET, FRANK MATTHYS, ROBERT McDONOUGH, JOHN 
F. McKIERNAN, JOHN J. McLAUGHLIN, MEL MEYERS, DUKE MILLHEAM, RICHARD MOLIQUE, EDWARD MORAN, JAMES R. MORRISON, RAY MORRISSY, WILLIAM R. MURPHY, FRANCIS F. O'BRIEN, JAMES J. O'BRIEN, WILUAM F. 
O'BRIEN, JOHN C. O'CONNOR, JAMES L. O'DEA, JOHN O'HANLON, REV. EDWARD 
L. O'MALLEY, LARRY O'NEILL, JOHN PAVLIC, JULIAN J. PODRAZA, HARVEY ROCKWELL, JOE QUARTUCH, CHARLES 
F. QUINN, JOHN QUIRK, NORBERT RASCHER, RUSSELL B. RICKUS, MAURICE RIGANTE, JOHN L. RUPPEL, EDWARD RYAN, NORB SCHENKEL, CHARLES SCHWARZ, ELI SHAHEEN, J. ALBERT SMITH, WILLIAM SUEHR, RAYMOND TROY, JOSEPH T. VOEGELE, JOHN WOLLACK, JOHN YOUNGEN, CARL ZIMMERER. 
W BRAVE ARE AWARDED Citations were awarded those brave enough to show for the 30th. The hours were long, the tales mellowed, brotherhood renewed, for the greatest class. . . . Welcomed back for the first time were JIM CLIFFORD, BOB HOAG, JIM RAAF (and his rolling home) who promise to return despite BEINOR's bombing. . . . '39er scientists and engineers are challenged to develop a suitable sound barrier . . . clicking shutters attest the pleasant prospect of PREXY MOTSCHALL's proposed brochure hi^ili^ting our reunion. 
Incidentally, if anyone did not receive his copy of the Silver Jubilee issue, Jim Motschall will provide one to the first 25 who write to him at 10090 W. Chicago Blvd., Detroit Mich. 48204. Our class treasury, fortified by the GILLESPIE­MESKILL collection basket Friday night is currently anemic; in fact overdrawn . . . so an urgent plea for help to anyone within reach of this voice. Contributions may be mailed to me, c/o American National Bank, South Bend, Tnd. 46601. 
Available space precludes lengthy comments concerning the reunion, never­theless your plaiming committee hopes you all enjoyed reminiscing as much as we enjoyed seeing each of you . . . and the most heard question was: "Where is . . .?" so you who were not with us know you were missed, Hope we can all gather 'round Harlan Hogan and his piano five years hence. 
In the meantime, we'll plan for a rally immediately after the Michigan State game, October 4. . . . More about that later, funds permitting. And keep those cards and letters coming, as y'all so eloquently promised . . . and much appreciation from your secretary. 
Joe Hannan 
1804 Greenwood Dr. 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
1939 Attendees 
RICHARD ANTON, TOM ARMEL, PATRICK 
J. BANNON, BILL BARTON, ED BEINOR. FRANCIS X. BRADLEY, JR., EARL BROWN, DICK BURKHOLDER, TOM BULGER, JIM CLIFFORD, JIM DALEY, EDWARD DISSER, PAUL DONOVAN, LARRY DOYLE, PAUL DUCHARME, DONALD DUFFEY, CHARLES EPHGRAVE, FRANK FITCH, TED FRERICKS, JOHN GALLAGHER, RICHARD GARAB, FRANK GARTLAND, DAVID GELBER, JOHN GUTOWSKI, JACK GRIFFIN, THOMAS GILLESPIE, J. R. PAT GORMAN, JOSEPH HANNAN, WILLIAM HAMBLEY, JOSEPH HARRINGTON, RALPH HASS, CHARLES B. HAYES, BILL HERRICK, ROBERT HOAG, PAUL KELL, REV. IRVING F. KLISTER, ROBERT J. KVATSAK, 
H. L. LARDIE, ERNEST LAVIGNE, ROBERT 
B. LINSEY, JOHN E. McAULIFFE, JOSEPH McDERMOTT, JOSEPH L. McDONALD, JAMES McGOLDRICK. JOHN McGUINNESS, NICK MEAGHER, MATTHEW MERKLE, WILLIAM MEYERS, TOM MclNTYRE, DAVE MESKILL, MARK MITCHELL, JAMES MOTSCHALL, ROBERT SCHIRF, 
STIRLING MORTIMER, JOHN MURPHY, CARL NAGEL, DICK O'MELIA, DO.\ O'MELIA, FRANCES M. PAYNE, FRANK PirrMA.\, JI.M RAAF, BILL RICKE, JOSEPH RYAN, DAN RYAN, DANIEL SHEEDY, ROBERT A. SHEP­PARD, JR., WALTER J. SHORT, JOHN SIEGEL, LOUIS SOMERS, JOHN E. SULLIVAN, JOHN TERELL, PAUL TULLY, EDWIN A. VON HOENE, GENE WHITE. 
'44 ACH! lUST THE '44EItS It is over-kaput-finis! By now almost all who attended the super-colossal Silver Jubilee Reunion should have recuperated. Bouquets of thanks belong to many but in particular to GEORGE BARISCILLO, outgoing class president, to JOHN MURPHY and TOM ROLFS, general cochairmen, to JERRY STANTON, Silver Bequest chairman, to Rev. JOE HAYDEN, celebrant of the Memorial Mass for departed classmates, to Dean BILL LAWLESS, who invited fellow '44ers to the Faculty Club for late evening refreshments, to classmates who donated attendance prizes, to the two MIKES—BRENNAN and MARTIN '67 who worked far beyond the call of duty to make the oldsters of '44 comfortable and relaxed, and especially to JOE DILLON, the fantastic local chairman. Joe's preparations were superb. All reunionites were greeted by a huge billboard slating "Welcome ND's Finest—Class of '44." The class dinner at the Continuing Education Center, with Ara as special speaker, was followed by a fireworks display which caused the Um'versity gardener, Bro. Seraphim, to remark, "Ach—that was no rain, no thunder, just the Class of '44 sending a volley of rockets on high." Prior to Saturday's banquet an airplane pulling a banner "ND's Finest—Class of '44" continually circled the campus. At the banquet, '44ers released hundreds of balloons which soared to the ceiling of Stepan Center, but popped during Fr. Hesburgh's speech. Liquid refreshments flowed almost continually and entertainment was furnished by John, the banjo artist. All these were Joe's doings. 
Men hadn't changed much in the past 23 years. Most youthful appearing were FARRELL QUINLAN and EDDIE DUNIGAN JR. The loss of and turning color of hair were evidenced mostly in BEN MAMMINA and JOHN MURPHY. BILL "SENATOR" BODDEN is thinner, while VIC DeSIMON put on a few pounds. BOB O'MALLEY would pass unquestion­ably for Bishop Wycislo of the Green Bay diocese. Out of Esquire came TED TOOLE in a sharp, red and white checked sportcoat; BILL WALDRON in his yellow slacks and green jacket; HARRY YEATES in his veiy New Yorkish, double-breasted, gray pin­stripe; and Tom Rolfs with his Countess Mara ties. 
Firel on hand was CLEM CONSTANTINE and last to leave was George Bariscillo who had to asses' and pay for damages. VINCE DUNCAN' and TOM BREHMER celebrated their wedding anniverearies. The "most children award" went to JIM PLATT who has 12, although JOHN CLYNE was not far behind with his 10. CREIGHTON MILLER, as almost always, won the golf championship. 
Attendance prizes were awarded to many. Bowling balls donated by JACK WHITELY were given to CHARLES McGILL, JOE CONERTY, JACK HERLIHY, PAUL LARSON, JOE VAN DYKE Farrell Quinlan, JOHN ZWICKER, JOE 
FIEWEGER, TED TOOLE and BERNIE FINUCANE. The wmners of ND blazer buttons, given by Joe Dillon, were Creighlon Miller, Tom Brehmer, BILL KENNY, BOB METZLER, ED STEINER, BOB LONDERGAN, JACK HEAGNEY, HERB CLARK and George Bariscillo. Wives of FRANK STUMPF and JOE EATON no doubt are happy to have the hair dryers presented by WARREN WAHL. An AM-FM radio from DICK PEDROTTY was awarded to EMMETT "BUZZ" HASSETT, while a Barca lounge chair, the gift of FRANK VIGNOLA, was won by Jerry Stanton. Tom Rolfs presented a Rolfs billfold plus cash to Jack Thornton. VIC KIMMEL was the winner of a portable refrigerator donated by JACQUES VEENEMAN, while BILL SNYDER was awarded the color TV set presented by BILL BOSS. A week's holiday for two at Farrell Quinlan's Lake Sunapee Lodge in New Hampshire was won by BOB McAULlFFE. 
Naturally an election was held. New officers for terms expiring in June 1974 are as follows: president, Frank Vignola; treasurer, Joe Dillon; regional vice-presidents: New En^and, JOE GALL; New York, JOHN MURPHY; Mid-Atlantic, BILL WALDRON; Southeast, Frank Stumpf; Chicago, BILL KENNY; Midwest, JACK DOYLE; Southwest, BERNIE FINUCANE; Northwest, JACK HUPF; and West Coast, MIKE FRAWLEY. 
Due to a word limit no more can be included in this issue. Additional reunion comments, plus acknowledgement of mail received just prior to the reunion, together with what has been received since, especially the fine letter from the class's most faithful correspondent OZZIE DOLAN, and with what hopefully is on the way will make up the column for the next issue. Keep the mail coming to assure readers a good column for the Class of '44. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
1944 Attendees 
HENRY ADAM. RICHARD A'HEARN, GUIDO ALEXANDER, NICK AMATO, JOHN ANHUT. JAMES ANTON, PAUL ARENS, GEORGE BARISCILLO, PETER BELMONT. ANTHONY BILOTTI, WILLIAM BODDEN. DO.MIXIC BOETTO, DICK BORGESS, WIL­LIAM BOSS, BERNIE BOWLING, THOMAS BRE.VIER, TOM BRENNAN, BE.N BRUNETTI. A.\SELM BURKART, FRANCIS CARVER, JAMES F. CASEY. GEORGE CHARTERS, JOSEPH CHRISTEN, HERBERT CLARK. JAMES CLARKE, PHIL CLARKE, JAMES T. CLAUSS, THOMAS CLE.MENS. JOHN CLYNE. ORVILLE COLIANNI, PAUL V. COLIASSI, TOM CO.VATY, JOSEPH CONERTY. CLEMENT CONSTANTINE. JAMES COOGAN, STRATTE COORLAS, JACK CRAHAN, GEORGE H. CRONIN. LYNDSAY DEM.^NBEY, VICTOR A. Dr-SIMON. HENRY DEWES. JOE DILLON, RICHARD T. DOERMER. OZZIE DOLAN, ED DOWLING, JACK DOYLE, VINCENT J. DUNCAN, EDWARD B. DUNIGAN, JOE EATON. FRED EICHORN, MIGUEL FACUSSE, JOSEPH FARRELL, JOSEPH FIEWEGER. ROBERT FISHER, MILTON FLYKE. KENNETH FORBES, MIKE FRAWLEY. JOSEPH GALL, EDWARD 
GALLAGHER, MELVIN GELBER, BERNIE GHIGLIERI, LAWRENCE GOEBELER, JAMES GORMLEY, BRO. ELLIS GREENE. J. BARRETT GUTHRIE, NORMAN HAASER, HAROLD HALEY, E. A. "BUZZ" HASSETT, REV. JOSEPH MARK HAYDEN, JOHN HEAGNEY, JOH.N HEN.NE.NBERGER. JOHN 
E. HERLIHY, JR., RAYMOND HOFFMAN, EMMIT JENNINGS, JOHN D. KELLY, 
WILUAH J. KENNY, PAT KILEY, VICTOR KIMMEL, JOHN R. KLEE, ROBERT KOHL, BOB KROTH, LEO LAKDIE, OSCAR P. LARSON, HAKRY LAVERY, WILLIAM B. LAWLESS, AUGUST J. LEGEAY. JUCAROO 
C. LEON, JAMES W. LLOYD, ROBERT LONDERGAN, ROBERT A. MacDONELL, ROBERT McAUUFFE, CHARLES K. McCILL, THOMAS McLAUCHUN, JOHN McSWEENEY, BEN MAMMINA, PAUL MARIETTA, JAMES MEAGHER, ROB­ERT J. METZLER, CREIGHTON MILLER, RICHARD J. MILLER. EDWARD MORGAN, JOHN H. MORRIS, JOHN F. MURPHY. RICHARD MURPHY, PHIL MYERS. JOSEPH NEUFELD, JAMES F. O'BRIEN, LOUIS O'BRIEN, PAUL O'CONNELL, EDWARD P. O'CONNOR, WILLIAM C. O'CONNOR, ROBERT O'MALLEY, TOM O'REILLY, CHARLES PATTERSON, RICHARD PEDROTTY. EUGENE PILAWSKL JAMES PLATT, FARRELL J. QUINLAN, TOM ROLFS. FRANK B. ROMAN, LEE ROOHAN, BILL SCHEUCH. BRO. EVAN SCHMID, BOB SCHRAMM, ERNIE SEDLMAYR, JACK SEGERSON, ROGER SHARP, ELMER SILHA, JOSEPH SIMONS, GENE SLEVIN, TED SMITH, WILLIAM SNYDER, EDWIN SOCHALSKI, JERRY STANTON, EDWARD STEINER, HENRY STREICHER, FRANK STUMPF, OMER STURM, JAMES G. SULUVAN, JOHN SULLIVAN, RICHARD SULUVAN, BILL TALBOT. JAMES THOMAS, JOHN F. THORNTON. J. ROBERT THTAiM. DAN TOMCIK. THEO­DORE TOOLE, JIM TREACY, NORVAL TRIMBORN. DONALD TROTTIER. PAUL F. UNVERZAGT, JOSEPH VAN DYKE. FRANCIS J. VIGNOLA, WARREN WAHL. WILUAM J. WALDRON. GEORGE R. WENDT. BILL WHITE. JOHN J. WITOUS, HARRY YEATES. ALBERT YOUNGHAUS. AL ZOILO. JOHN H. ZWICKER. 
'4» HANGED TWICE One week after the class reunion had gone into histoiy. Rev. WILLIAM NEIDHART wrote me saying in effect "yoa were hanged in effigy, not once, but twice—a new NCAA record!" A scribe who doesn't write, I know, is worse than a radio that doesnt play since his lack of performance profoundly affects far greater an audience. And I compounded one fault wift another—that of missing the reunion. Ibving delighted in the three prior get-togethers, I know what the throng of '49ers who invaded Zahm dU make the corks pop, the divots fly and the cameras click. Reimions are vital and spirit-charging, and are not li^tly to be dismissed. AH of which made my decision to waive die reunion to tackle a local problem difficult; but necessary. A wise move? Jury is still out to lunch. 
After I receive the list of '49 men who attended the reunion, I win be able to verify some mail I received prior to die reunion which indicated that: BOB SINGER of Altadena, Calif., was planning to make the trip. Bob joined Phihp A. Hunt Co.'s chemical divuibn last year and worics under Western Regional Manager JACK WIGGINS '43. 
FRANK BROGAN wrote from West­chester, III., saying he was reimion bound, driving in with NORM HENNESSY whose daugiiter is at St Mary's .. . or ND? 
Nice letter from New York State Sen. JOHN CAEMMERER lA o was recently reelected to his third term in the state senate. John is a practicing attorney in Mineola and chainnan of the Republican Committee of North Hempstead, Long Island. To prove that the busy can get busier, John is now helping to publish three weekly new^apers out on the islaiid. He planned to team up with Wall Street financier VINCE O'REILLY and FRANK SCHULTZ of Laurel Hollow, Nassau 
County, for the reunion trip. 
Another card writer, JOHN CORRIGAN, 
who nailed his M.B.A. at the U. of Chicago 

and spent 15 years with Sinclair, recently 
switched brands to join Mobil as manager 
of special production in New York City. He 
lives in Wyckoff, NJ., in a large home. 

I presume it's large—he and Dorothy have 
seven youngsters, including one at N D and 
one at SL Mary's. 
PAUL BAILEY checked in with news 

that he is affiliated with Walter Schwimmer, 
Inc., and has been for some time. Now, 
however, he finds he's working for Bing 
Crosby Productions .. . or is it Cox 
Broadcasting? Cox recently bought both 
firms. Anyway, he was going to explain 
it all to the troops at the beer pump in 
Zahm—so the card said. Paul added that 
JACK. LOWE phoned him saying he was 
transferred to Elgin, 111., to the home office 
of McGraw-Edison. Said Jack—^"I'm 
shocked, but what an opportunity!" HARRY 
ENGELBRECHT wrote me to say he 
manages the Chrysler Corp. machining and 
forge operations in New Castle, Ind. Althea 
promised to handle the four youngsters 
while Harty slipped away for the June 
6, 7, 8 weekend. 
I heard via the grapevine, in this case, a phone call, from JOHN DUGGAN out of Lansing, III., that BILL SHINE was nicely involved in the stock brokerage field in San Jose, Calif. (?) Also MARSHALL PRUNTY is working in Evanston, 111., for a conveyor systems manufacturing company. I could use exact details here if someone would drop me a confirming note. 
Some closing but important flashes! BOB BAUMANN of Napcrville, 111., was elected president of Connor-Sager Associates, Inc., Aurora, III. He-has been with the firm since 1964. H. EDWARD HESS was named a voting stockholder of Bache and Co.. Inc., and an allied member of the New York Stock Exhange. Dr. STEPHEN J. GALLA will be acting chairman of the Department of Anesthesiology at the U. of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and acting chief at the Presbyterian Hospital, Pittsburgh, Pa. During this period he will continue his duties as associate professor and director of the Anesthesiology Research Laboratories. EDWARD W. SNYDER JR. has been elected president of Buckland-VanWald, Inc., in Detroit 
We're back in stride . . . and back in print! Long or short, your note or card will help make our next column. Can do? 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
1949 Attendees 
TOM ADAMS, PAUL J. ALLWEIN, DICK ANDERSON, AGUSTtN AVELLEYRA, PAUL BAILEY, FRANCIS G. BAKER, LEO BARN­HORST, JOHN E. HARTLEY, PATRICK BLACKFORD, FRANK BROGAN, JOHN BROGAN, DANIEL BUCKLEY, FREDERICK 
R. BURGER, JAMES BURKE, LOUIS BURNS, MIKE BUSH, JAMES BUTZ, JOHN D. CAEMMERER, MALTRICE CASEY, ARTHUR CASSIDY, ROBERT CIANCHETTI, JOHN CLARK, JOHN C. CLYNES, CHARLES COMES, MIKE CONLEY, BOB CONNELLY, DON COOK, VERLING COPELAND, B. PATRICK COSTELLO, WAYNE CURRAN, REV. THOMAS DINGES, WARD DRISCOLL, JOHN EARLY, BILL ENGLEHART, FRANK FAHEY, JOE FAHEY, JOHN M. FANNING, ROBERT FELTES, WILLIAM FISCHER, RAY FITZGERALD, GERARD FITZPATRICK, JOHN C. FOGARTY, FRANCIS FORGIONE, FRANK FORTON, WILLIAM FUERTGES, STEVE GALLA, BLAINE GALLAGHER, DON J. GATENS, FRANK GAUL, JOE GEISEL, JACK GILL, ROBERT GRE­GORITTS, JOE GOSLINE, JACK F. GUION, WILLIAM GUSHURST, JOE HALLER, ALBERT M. HARDESTY, FRANK HARTY, 
M. BRUCE HARLAN, ROBERT P. HAYES, TOM HEALY, NORMAN HENNESSY, CHARLES J. HERINGER, LARRY HEUSER, JACK HILBRICH, HAROLD HOFFMAN, ERNIE HUFFMAN, JOHN JACOBS, A. FRA.VK KAUFMANN, FRANK KEATING, GERALD KEMPKER, JOHN KENNEDY, PETER KERNAN, JAMES RESTING, THOMAS KRASS, JACK LAMBERT, OTIS LAMBERT, JOHN A. LaVIGNE, AL LESKO, CARL LIEBSCHER, JACK LOWE, ROBERT LUTHER, ^VILLIAM McCARTY, LARRY McCORMACK, JACK McDONOUGH, JERRY McFARLAND, EDWARD R. McGAH, CHARLES McGUIRE, TOM McGUIRE, FRANK M.\NCINO, EUGENE MAGUIRE, BOB MAHONEY, JOSEPH MALL, JOE M.^LONEY, JIM MARCHELEWICZ, JOHN MARGET, JAMES MARTIN, JAMES P. MARTIN, MARTIN MATICH, EDWARD MEEHAN, PATRICK MEENAN, JOHN F. MOORHEAD, JOHN E. MORAN, JAMES F. MORTELL, GERALD S. MURPHY, JAMES 
E. MURPHY, PETER MURPHY, ROBERT MURPHY, WILLIAM O. MURTAGH, JOE NAUMAN. CHARLIE NEFF, THOMAS NEFF, REV. WILLL^M J. NEIDHART. JOHN NES­TER, THOMAS F. NOVAK, JOHN E. O'BRIEN, THOMAS S. O'BRIEN, DANIEL MICHAEL O'CONNELL, JAMES O'HALLORAN, GEORGE PATTERSO.V, RAY PETRZEIKA, ROBERT PFEIL, BILL PHEUVN, BERNARD POWERS, ROBERT W. POWELL, MARSHALL PRUNTY, PETE PULLMAN, BRUCE RAFF, ERIC REY DE CASTRO, REV. REIHLE, GEORGE RESNIK, THOMAS R. RIGGIO, JAMES RODGERS, BOB ROTCH­FORD, JIM ROTCHFORD, CHARLES ROULT, BILL RUSSELL, JOHN H. SCH.AEFER, TED SCHAETZLE. AL SCHREDER, ROBERT SCHRINER, FRANK SCHULTZ, RALPH SCHUMAKER, KENNETH SCHUSTER. REV. JOHN P. SHEEHAN. TINO SIERRA. MAT SILECKI, BUD SMITH. JERRY SODERBERG, W. G. STEINERT, LARRY SUTTER. EUGENE SNARSKI. RAYMOND J. SOBOTA, MARTIN SODETZ, WILLIAM D. STOCKMAN, GEORGE STUHR, FR.ANK SULLIVAN, JOSEPH SULLIVAN, ROBERT SURKAMP, GEORGE SWEENEY, ROBERT WARRICK, LOU WATKINS, M.ARTIN WENDELL, THOMAS WILLIAMS. JOSEPH TOY, LOUIS 
E. TRACY, CARROLL TREDER, FRANK TRIPUCKA, BOB WILLENBRINK, JOHN YOUNG, LOU ZUMBAHLEN. 
'54 SUDS, SOURS, STINGERS First, let me apologize to all my classmates whom I don't mention or whom I didn't have the opportunity to talk with at the reunion. But the reunion weekend is more of a fun thing than a job. To the many of you who couldn't or wouldn't take the time for our 15-ycar reunion, may I express my sympathy—it's your loss. June 6, 9:30 a.m. The weekend starts as I'm met by HERM KRIEGSHAUSER, BOB CHICKEY and Dr. PHIL HIGGINS for the drive to South Bend. A beer lunch and we arrive at Zahm Hall about 3:30 p.in. and make our way to the beer tent for some verbal abuse from PAUL "MR. TUX" KELLY and good ole DICK TIERNEY. Dick played it straight and upri^t all weekend. RAY TIERNEY expressed regret that he couldn't attend, but he was trying a case the following Monday. Running tnie to form, DICK CASTELLINI put ice down my back before I got my first brew. At 5:00 pjn., Indiana time—whatever that is—^we headed for the new dining hall and cocktails which we needed like a hole in the head. The crowd and noise kept building. CHARLIE SPICKA made good 
his promise and returned on leave all the 
way from Thailand where he's now up to 
almost 75 missions since November. His 
"oil can Harry" moustache was a delight, 
containing slightly more hair than on the 
heads of ROGER VALDISERRL JACK 
PITTAS and BOB "BARE ON TOP" 
WRIGHT. 
After dinner ED "40 PUSH-UPS A 
DAY" MADIGAN dared to challenge your 
in-shape secretaiy to a foot race (about 220 
yards in record time). Ed held up well to 
the first turn and then—^well, class tells! 
BILL REYNOLDS reported the absence of 
JOHN LATTNER and an investigation 
revealed that John was judging a beauty 
contest (topless). Tsk Tsk! 
Some classmates who've really stayed in 
great shape these past IS years are JOE 
BUSH, Fred Mann (Guardi), Don Zech, 
PAUL FORSMAN, George Hubbard. Dick 
Ehr and Bill Cavanagh. Others who look 
exactly now as they did in 1954 are PETE 
SCHWENK, MIKE CALIANDRO, Dr. 
TOM MOORE, FRANK RAITH, DAN 
MUNSON and GENE HOWLEY. 
The beer tent was active 'til 3 a.m. and 
then was reopened by JIM "THE BERN" 
BERNHART about 4, singing at 5:30 a.m. 
along with the quacking of ducks. 
I won't talk about Saturday's dinner. For $7.50 it was a disaster. We arrived late, sat at an almost empty table and filled up on salad and cake. It's hard to mess up lettuce. After dinner—^poker. There were three or four games going. Joe Bush won about $15 in a nickle-dime game, quite a feat, and Pete Schenk and GERRY FINNEY pulled about 100 bills from another game. Finney had something going for him besides cards. He turned an internal disorder into an asset, driving us from the room, time after time, and keeping us constantly on edge. Among the losers were Ed Hogan, BOB FRIES, JIM KINTZ, Tom McDermott, BOB ETTELBRICK and BOB KROP. 
JACOBO TEFEL came all the way from Nicaragua where he's president of Fogel De Nicaragua, S.A. ED MILOTA didn't arrive until late Saturday night. Jack Pittas, who's moving to Philadelphia, made it for only a few hours. Besides Jack and myself there were three others who were from the same high school— GENE HENRY, Pete Schwenk and JOE MALONEY. I roomed with good buddy ED SEIM and was across from DAVE KEFFLER in the quiet part of Zahm. Got the lowdown from raider BILL VOOR on the Pornography Symposium at ND. Gang, it's not all roses back at the ole alma mater. 
Had brief but enjoyable chats with JOHN LIBERT, JOE MESEC (fat, fat), WALT DUSCHKA, JIM DASCHBACH, TOM SHORT, JACK SAND, MARTY VIETH, JIM MacINNlS, JOE "POLITICO" JOYCE, WALT "EVER LOYAL" WAGNER, JOHN BIERBUSSE, LEN DURY, LEW WELCH, JOE GODWIN, ED MRAZ, etc., etc. Forgive me, you other guys, but for parts of the weekend I was in less than tip-top shape. 
Sunday was dismal—partings and farewells quiet and muted. Five more years is a long wait—so don't wait Next reunion party is at a new location—same Engineering Building, but in Jim Daschbach's new air-conditioned lab. First home game as usual. 
Henm, Chick, Phil and I had lunch before leaving South Bend at Dick 
(Continued, page 27) 
Rosenthal's, preceded by a few sours. It was a wonderful climax. 
The trip back home was exhausting. A few stingers-to-go after dinner in Springfield kept us going and started us thinking ahead to 1974. Home at 10 p.m. It was great! Thanks. 
Milton J. Beaudine 21 Signal Hill Blvd. 
E. S t Louis, 111. 62203 
1954 Attendees 
CHARLES W. ALLEN, DICK ANTON, MILTON BE-AUDINE, DON BEDEL, GORDON BERGQUIST, WALTER BERNARD, JAMES BERNHART, JOHN BIERBUSSE, JOHN P. BOLAND, RALPH BONAN.\TA, MARVIN J. BREZETTE, ED BROWN, JOHN BRYAN, RAY BUBICK, PETE BUCHEIT, JAMES A. BUCKENMYER, WILLIAM BURKE, ROBERT BUR-N'S, JOSEPH BUSH, MICHAEL CALIANDRO, RICHARD CASTELLINI, BILL C.W.V<AGH, ROBERT CHICKEY, MICHAEL CELESTE, EDWARD CHRISTIA.\0, BER.NARD CONNOR, EDWARD J. CONNORS, JR.. ANDREW CORRAO, WILLI.^M J. DALY, JAMES M. DASCHBACH. FRA.NCIS DEAN, JIM DECOURSEY, ROBERT DEWEY, JOHN DILLON, RODERICK DUFF, LEN DURY, WALTER DUSCHKA, BILL DWYER, RICHARD EHR, JOE ENZLER, BOB ETTELBRICK. EDWARD EWING, WILLIAM FAG.A.\', BILL FARMER, BOB FARNBAUCH, CARL FARAH, ROBERT FROLICHER, GERRY FINNEY, PAUL FORSMAN, ROBERT FRIES, JOSEPH GODWIN, J.\MES GIBBS, EDWARD J. GRIFFIN. BEX GRYLEWICZ, EDWARD GSCHWIND, HERBERT HAILE, BOB H.\NLEY, EUGENE HENRY. JACK HERBERT, PHILIP HIGGINS, EDWARD HOGAN, GEORGE HUBBARD, 
GE.NE HOWLEY, ROBERT INEICH, -MEL JIGANTI, JOE JOYCE, JERRY KE.ATING. DA\TD KEFFLER, PAUL F. KELLEY. JAMES KINTZ, GEORGE KOCH, PAUL M. KRAUS, HERM/VN KRIEGSHAUSER, ROBERT KROP, RAY KUROWSKI, FRANK LANE. MICHAEL R. LAUGHLIN, M.ARION LESZCZYNSKI, EDWARD LEWIS, JIM LIBERATORE, JOHN LIBERT. WILLIAM LOFTUS, JI.M LOO.NAM. JAMES M. McCOMB. JOE McGINN, JOHN McINERNEY, RICHARD McNAMARA. GUY MACINA, JAMES MacINNIS. ED MADIGAN. JOHN B. MAGILL, JOE MALONEY, .ANTHONY M.4NDOLINI. FRED M.'VNN, RICHARD T. MARTIN, TOM McDERMOTT. KENNETH MELCHIOR, JOHN MERTENS. JOSEPH MESEC. BILL MEYER. LEO MICHUDA, TOM .MOORE, RAY.MO.\D H. MORAN, BILL MORLEY, D.AN MOTZ, EDWARD MRAZ. J.AMES F. MULLANE. DAN MUNSON. RICHARD F. MURPHY, TOM MURPHY, REV. JOSEPH NASH, THOMAS NESSINGER, MIKE NEVILLE. WILLIAM F. NOONAN. WILLIAM OFFUTT, CHARLES O'NEIL, ROBERT PATTERSON, JOHN PIGOTT. DICK PILGER. ROBERT POSEN, JOSEPH QUAIN. FRA.\K RAITH, 
JOHN W. REUBA, WILLIAM REYNOLDS, RICHARD ROBISON, JOHN ROSSHIRT, RICHARD RYAL, TOM RYDER, JACK SAND, JOSEPH SASSANO, BARRY SAVAGE. JOHN SCHLOEGEL, PETE SCHWENK, W. 
T. SHORT, ED SEIM, JOHN J. SMITH, FRITZ SOVIK, CHARLES SPICKA, WALLACE STAUDER, STEPHEN STECK­BECK, BILL SULLIVAN, DICK SULLIVA.\. JOHN SWIFT, JACOB TEFEL, RICHARD TIERNEY, RAY TILLEY, TONY TRIGIANI, JOHN TRUCANO. MARTIN VIETH, CHARLES WAGNER, WALT WAGNER, PHILIP WALKER, J. L. WEIGAND, LEN WELCH, DAN WHALEN, ROBERT WRIGHT, ROMIE ZANETTI, DON ZECH. 
'59 ANOTHER ONE SET Reunion '69 was a tremendous success (list of participants is included in this column) and we are now preparing for the '59 re­
union to be held after the Northwestern game, SepL 20. 
The sympathy of the class is extended to Dr. KENNETH (KNUTE) CAVANAUGH, whose father died June 7. RON DeLAMIELLEURE has an M.A.from Wayne State, his law degree from Detroit College of Law and is now practicing in Romulus, Mich. BELA PIACSEK stayed at N D for his M.S. in '61 and received his doctorate in physiology at MSU in '66. His postdoctoral research was spent at Harvard Medical and Bela is now an assistant professor at Marquette. 
JOE CROTTY had been with Indian Head Corp. for two years, and recently became vice-president, corporate growth, of National Can Corp. Dr. ROBERT P. SEDLACiC has been promoted to associate professor at Depauw U., GreencasUe, Ind. TOM HAWKINS has retired from the LA Lakers and can now be seen on WNBC in Los Angeles, doing the sports reporting. 
JOSEPH W. HARRISON is now special assistant to the assistant postmaster general. Bureau of Facilities. Joe had been serving as administrative assistant to Congressman Garry Brown (Mich.). Another D.C.'er is MARK SHIELDS, class veep and keynote speaker at our Friday evening reunion dinner. Mark is director of campaigns for the Democratic party. 
Can the rumors be true concerning BOB WETOSKA's retirement from the Chicago Bears? Reunion participants, particulariy 
T. J. MAHONEY, agree that Bob has not lost his touch! NICK PIETROSANTE drove down from Detroit to join Bob "under the tents." CHICK MARTIN has sent us copies of the photos he took reunion weekend. We are searching for a printer in the class who can assist us in preparing a booklet for each reunion. In the meantime, the historical gallery can be found at ND. Chick is a broker with Schneider, Bemet & Hickman, Inc. (Dallas) and came to the campus with BOB WILLIAMS. Bob had been here in early May for the Alumni Senate meeting. The other BOB WILLIAMS, physician by trade and Pittsburgh by residence, also joined us for the weekend. 
RAY BUXTON is with the Department of Transportation in D.C. and lives in Alexandria, Va. Ray has been married to wife Ann, six years, has four children; saw Rev. JIM GALLAGHER CSC and Dr. JOHN HERRINGHAUS recenUy, and called JOHN (the Chief) CORTESIO in Des Moines just to reminisce. JOHN DOWNES is the executive vice-president of Downes Construction Co., in New Britain, Conn. JACK HUGHES is president of Doc Ryan's Tavern, Chicago. 
CHARLIE CARAVATI is now con­troller of Root Co., in Daytona Beach, the holding company of Associated Coca-Cola Bottlers and Shawnee Airlines, a Florida commuter airline of which he is secretary-treasurer. Charlie and Eileen live in Ormond Beach with Kevin (7) and Ellen (4). 
JERRY BECHAMPS reports from Mayo's that NORM ODYNIEC is an Army surgeon in Korea. JACK FOX is an Army path­ologist in Ft. Dix. NJ. JOHN AMBRE is a clinical pharmocologist at the U. of Iowa, DUKE COOK is at U. of Oregon this summer studying endocrinology, DAVE CULLIGAN is now chief resident in surgery at the clinic and will be practicing next year .in St. Paid. Jeny, our faithfiil reporter froin tlie Mayo voap, w9 be stationed at Foit Eustis, Va„ in S^tanber. He added that BOB KAERCHER left the Army after nine years and is in Arlington, Va., with an engineering finn. 
Joseph P. Mulligan Admissions OCBce Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 

1959 Attendees 
RICHARD AHARAL, JOHN AMUtE, JOHN BARKER, JOHN BEARD, JOHN BEUVEAU, WALTER BERNARD, FRANK BETTENDOIF, STEPHEN BOLANDER, KENNETH BOONE. JOHN BOYCE, ROBERT L. BRENNAN. REV. THOMAS BRENNER, DICK BRINGAZE, BO BRCSMMEL, JAMES BROGAN, JOHN BROSIUS, FRANCIS J. BUCKLEY, JR., DICK BUHRFIENO, JOHN BUROICK, KEVIN BURKE, WILUAM BURTIS, FRANK CAHILL, BOB CAIXERO, TOM CARROLL, JOHN CASHION, DANIEL CASSIDY, EDWARD CAWI, DANIEL CLANCY, JIM COLOSIMO. REV. JAMES CON.NELLY, JAMES L. COORSSEN, JIM CRISMAN. DAN CROSSEN, FRANK J. CULLEN. E. J. CUNNINGHAM, WILUAM CUSHWA, ROBERT DAILY, WILUAM DALTON. JOHN DEMFSEY. CHARLES DIETSCH. JOHN DOL.AN, DICK DONALD­SON, JOHN DONOVAN, RICHARD DONOVAN, JOHN DOWNS, RON DURANT, JON DWEITT, AL ECUYER, CARL E.NGSTRON, WAYNE FAIST, PETER FLNKE, ED FIXARI, JOHN FOLEY, JOHN FREY, ROBERT FUNDERUC, EUGENE FUNK. PETER FUR.NAIU, JOSEPH GALVIN, TIM GEORGE, DON GERNE, THOMAS GILL, WARREN GRIENENBERGER, PAT GORMAN. ROBERT. GOOD. BERNARD GILLESPIE, B.^RRETT GLEIXNER, ANTHONY GRAHAM, LAWRENCE W. GREENE. PETER HACKETT, KEVI.N HALLIGAN. JIM HANLON. MIKE H.AVERTY, JOHN HAYWARD, WILUAM HAWKINS, THOMAS HAYES. JAMES HEAVEY, JAMES M. HEIRTlf, JOHN 
HELMER. JOHN HETREEO, BILL HICK­MAN, KENNETH HIEGEL. JOSEPH HIGGINS, JAMES HILLIARD, JOHN E. HURLEY. CLARE.\CE HUTCHES, BOB JANOSKI, JIM JOCK, ROBERT JOHNSTON. JA.MES JORDAN, JEROME JUNGELS, JAMES JUST. DICK KATIS. LOUIS KAVANAUGH, JIM KEEGAN. EUGENE KELLEY, JOSEPH 
F. KELLY, K. FRED KLEIDERER, JOSEPH KING, GENE KILLEEN. RICHARD KOMYATTE, JOHN.KROHA, TERRY LAMB, ROGER LAUR, HARRY LEINENWEBER, DENNIS LEO. WILLIAM H. LOGSDON. RICHARD LOMBARDI, TOM LOFINA. JOHN LUKES. JOHN MADDEN. TIMOTHY MAHONEY, JOE MAIER. EDWARD MALONE, JOHN MANEY. DAVID MANN, JOHN MAN.VON. ROBERT MARSO, CHARLES MARTIN, THOMAS MCBREEN, THOMAS MCBRIDE, WILLIAM MCCAFFREV. WILLIAM MCCULLOUGH, TERRY MCDONNELL, JOHN MCFADDEN, TIM 
McGARVEY, EDWARD McGEE. JACK .MCGRATH, RAYMOND McPARTUN, JERRY MIGUEL. PHILIP MILLER. JOHN MONTAGUE, WILUAM HORENCY, FREDERICK MOWLE, JOSEPH MULUGAN. BOB MURPHY, DONALD MURRAY, EDMUND MiniPHY, VINCE NAIMOU. DENNIS NEAD, DAVID NEAL, JOHN H. NICKODEMUS, VTFO NIGRELU, CARL NOELKE. JAMES O'BRIEN, DANIEL O'CONNOR, PAUL O'CONNOR, R(»ERT O'MEARA, JIM PAUUS, STEU PAULL, RICHARD PHELAN, JOHN E. PHILBIN. CHARLES PHILUPS. NICK PIETROSANTE. FRANK PONZIO, CHARLES PUNTILLO, CHARLES QUEENAN, DANIEL RAPP, DICK RAUPP, JOHN REARDON, ALLAN REED, FRANK REYNOLDS, FRANK RHODES. TONY RIBAUDO, JOHN ROEOEL, PATRICK ROLLINS, DOUGLAS JtOOt, DICK ROYER. RICH RYAN, THOMAS RYAN, PETER SALSICH, GENE SAXON, JAMES SCHAAF, 
PHIL SCHUESSLER, MICHAEL SEAMAN, NEIL SEAMAN, ARTHUR SHANNON, JOE 
L. SHAW, PETE SHEPTAK, MARK SHIELDS, THOMAS SHINE, RICHARD SMALE, SHANNON SXHTH, JOHN STEINBERG, T. QUINN STEFAN, JOHN STEWART, MICK SUNDSTROM, JOHN THURIN, RONALD THYEN, RICHARD J. TRANT, JERRY TRAUTSCHOLD, ED TREACY, LEONARD TROTTA, THOMAS UTTER, GEORGE VANDERVENNET, FRED VIDA, PATRICK WALSH, DAVID WEILAND, ROBERT WELCH, LARRY WENTZ, BOB WETOSKA, BOB WILLIAMS, ROBERT WILLIAMS, JOHN E. ZABACK, RICHARD ZAPPAIA. 
'<4 WAS THERE TOO! 
1964 Attendees 
BENJAIHN ACRI, RONALD AGRESTA. MARQUIS ANDERSON, D.AVID ATKINSON, JOHN BANKS, MICHAEL B.ARTON, HERBERT BLACK, RICHARD BONNEVILLE, JOHN BOWE, JERRY BRADLEY, JOHN BRADLEY, WILLIAM F. BREZETTE, PETER BROCCOLETTI, THOMAS J. BROWN, THOMAS BUTLER, PATRICK CALLAHAN, CHRIS CARMOUCHE, BOB CASEY, BEN CASHMAN, JUAN CINTRON, FRANCIS CIRRINCIONE, EDWARD CLARK, JOE CLARK, FRANK CORRADO. JOHN COUNSELL, CLYDE CRAINE, MICHAEL CUMMINGS, BARRY CURTIN, MIKE CURRIER, GENE DEAGOSTINO, J. PATRICK DOOLEY, ROBERT DRAGANI, MIKE DUBACH, ED DUNN, DONALD A. BUNPHY, JR., JOHN DUPPS, DAVE ELLIS, EMIL PETER, KEVIN FAGAN, FRANK FEE, CARL FLECKER. DENNIS FLYNN, THOMAS FOX, CLIFF FREDRICKS, DAVID FREUND, DICK GALIHER, WALTER GAJDA, EDWARD GASIOR, FRANK GASPER, ALBERT GELSON, J. PETER GRACE, GEORGE GUZZARDO, DAVID HART, JOHN HARTY, BERNARD HESSLEY, DAVID W. HUDGEL, D.\VID JUSTIN. JOHN KANALEY, MIKE KEALY, CHARLES KELL, JAMES T. KELLY, PATRICK KENEALLY, GERRY KENNEDY, FRANK KENNY, GENE KEPPEL, ADRIAN R. KING, MIKE KIRCHEN, RONALD KIZIOR, DON KRINER, REV. LEONARD KUBERSKI, TOM KULICK, MARK L.ABOE, TOM LAVELLE, SAL LECCESE, WILLIAM LEWIS, MICHAEL LONG, DICK LOVELL, DAN MANION, JOSEPH MANZELLI, CARMEN MANZO, JAMES MASON, MICHAEL MCCARTHY, WILLIAM MCINTYRE, JAMES MCNERNEY, JOSEPH MAYER, TOM MEAGHER, JOHN MEYER, JOE MONAHAN, THOMAS MONAHA.N, J. MICHAEL MOORE, 

TIM MORRISON, MIKE MESTROVICH, 
SAM MIRABITO, CARL MORONEY, ED 
NORTON, GEORGE NOVAK, JOHN 
OBERHAUSEN, MARK OBERHAUSEN, JIM 

O'BRIEN, GERALD O'CONNOR, CHARLES O'BARA, WILLIAM O'HEARN, PAT O'MALLEY, DENNIS O'NEILL, JOHN W. O'NEILL, GREGORY PAC, ROBERT PATTERSON, WILLIAM PFEIFFER, WILLIAM 
PETERSMARK, JOHN PETTIT, JOHN PIERCE, GERALD FIERI, JOHN POELKER, DENNIS POWERS, THOMAS REISER, JAMES RINELLA, JOHN ROBISON, DONALD ROMEO, PAUL ROSSMAN, JOHN SCULLY, GENE SEROTINI, RICHARD SERAFIN, TOM SESSI, JOHN SIEGER, HAROLD SPORL, WILLIAM STAUDENHEIMER, DONALD STEPHAN, NEWELL STICKLER, DAVID STOUT, TIM SULLIVAN, THOMAS SWITZER, BRUCE TUTHILL, EDWARD VYTLACIL, MIKE WHITECOTTON, TERRY WOLKERSTORFER, JAMES WRUCK, GEORGE ZIMMERMAN, FRANK ZIRILLE. 


Mixed Class Attendees 
DICK LESUE '20, HARRY P. NESTER '20, ARTHUR HALEY '26, J. PATRICK CANNY '28, PHIUP CENEDELLA '28, REV. JAMES McSHANE '28, BEN OAKES '31, JOHN F. SAimDERS '31, TONY SCHREINER '31, REV. MAURICE POWERS '33, J. CLIFFORD LETCHER '40, WILLIAM D. MIDDENDORF '43, BERNIE FINUCANE '46, JAMES McINTYRE '46, WALTER ROGERS '46, LEO DONATI '47, JOHN HUPF '47, CHARLES EBNER '48, JOSEPH GRIFFIN '48, THOMAS 
J. HESSERT '48, PHILIP RUSSO '49, ROBERT \VELCH '50, DAVID GUSHURST '51, MACK STEWART '55, DAVID SHANAHAN '58. 


CLASS NOTES 
'22 NO MORE FOR UNCLE SAM JOE FARLEY retired April 28, after serving a total of 33 years in U.S. government service. His first eight years were with the FBI. Then Joe served 25 years with the Veterans Administration—adjudication division of their Chicago office. Hearty congratulations and best wishes to you, Joe, in your retirement years. Also, we are very pleased to hear that your recent operations have alleviated your arthritic troubles. Mrs. Phyllis Heneghan, widow of GEORGE P. HENEGHAN, and her sister have been visiting Alaska, Hong Kong, Japan, Formosa, the PhiUipines and Hawaii. Also in Hawaii in late May were the FRANK BLOEMERs. A very sad note was received from JEROME DIXON teUing of the death of his fine nephew. Army Lt. PATRICK M. DIXON '67 in Vietnam in May. Pat graduated from ND with high honors and was the son of SHERWOOD DIXON 70, a former Lt. Gov. of Illinois. Also, Pat's roommate at ND, KEVIN BURKE of Iowa, died in combat shortly after Pat arrived in Vietnam. We extend much sympathy to all members of the Dixon and Burke families. Robert R. Uhl of the lawfirm of Downing, Smith, Gargensen & Uhl of Decatur, m., under date of May 28, writes as follows: "I am writing you concerning the death of my father-in-law, JUSTIN E. HYLAND. I sent the Alunmi office notice of his death on March 6, 1969, but I thought your class secretary might like some details. In 1967, he retired from the consulting firm of Madigan-Hyland in New York City of which he had been treasurer and business manager. This concern had been founded by RICHARD V. HYLAND, his brother, a ND graduate and M.G. Madigan. He and Mrs. Hyland moved here to Decatur in November, 1%7. Her health is poor. He had been seriously ill about four years ago but had seemed in fairiy good hMlth until the night he died, passing away peacefully in his sleep. He is survived by my mother-in-law, the former Esther Kemer of South Bend; a sister, Eleanor Murtagh of Peim Yan, N.Y.; a brother, 
C. J. HYLAND "26 of Staten Island, N.Y.; five grandchildren and his daughter, Patricia, who is my wife." 
We extend our grateful thanks to Robert Uhl for his thou^tfulness and kindness in writing, and again our sympathy to all of Justin's loved ones. 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
•25 nV E CLASSMATES DIE 
The last two weeks in April brougjit the sad news of the passing of five of our 
THOMAS L. HIGGINS—1623 N. Illinois, South Bend, and EDWARD J. MALAY— 812 Spear St, Logansport, Ind. This information came from Jim Coon^'s office with no date of death given for either. 
RICHARD W. TOBIN died April 24, 1969. Richard's widow lives at 2569 Woodstock, Columbus, Ohio. BERNARD 
J. FLOCK died April 20, 1969. Bernard was the father of DONALD E. '58 and RICHARD J. '68. His widow lives at 88711 Modaff Rd., NaperviUe, Dl. Word of Bernard's death came from ED OTOOLR Many thanks, Ed, for sending the word to the Alumi Office and to me. HANK WURZER has taken care of the Masses for all five of our classmates. 
LAWR STRABLE of Saginaw, Mich., sent me the shocking news of WILLIAM 
C. HURLEY'S death Sunday, June 8 (1711 Gratiot Ave.). Bill suffered a fatal heart attack while golfing. In part the news article read: "Mr. Hurley earned many honors in the insurance field and in civic activities. He served a four-year term on the city council. Bill received the outstanding individual service award from the Big Brothers of Saginaw and served as president of the organization in 1966. He was honored by the Saginaw Association of Life Underwriters with the National Quality Award." 
Bill was presideht~bf^the Saginaw Valley ND au b in 1960. Ed MiUer, a local columnist, had written in the Saginaw News: "They don't come any finer than Bill Huriey was—^an all around good fellow, good citizen and gentleman." 
This comes as distressing news to me because we were great friends and sat next to each other for four years. He came back for all the reunions and certainly will be missed by the entire class. A class Mass will be said for Bill. 
VIRGIL FAGEN writes from Sardegna, Italy, about a spedal ND meeting in Rome. Virg and his wife, Dorothy, had an interesting visit with that wonderful VINCE McLOON at the ND Center at 82 Largo Brancaccio. Virg says Vince's reproduction of a tower room in "Sorin Sub" is worth coming all the way to Rome to see . . . beat-up furniture, peimants and all. From the center, an exceptionally good dinner was enjoyed at Scoglio di Frisio. The Fagans were in Portugal, Italy, Austria, Switzeriand—three months in all. \%g is keq>ing June, 1970, open for our 4Sth. This is a reminder for all of us! 
John P. Hurley 
2085 BiDokdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'27 EUROPE VS. ND BILL HEARN, «4io now lives at Mountain Home, Arlc., sent me a note a short while ago and said that he retired as management advisor for the Army at the end of 1966. He was unable to make the '67 reunion as he and his wife were in Europe at the time; in fact, he was at Rock's birthplace when we were all at ND. 
Bill also gave me the sad news that A. JOHN BRINKMAN passed away suddenly in eariy February, 1968, of a heart attack. At the time of his death he was a district superintendent in the Chicago Public School System. 
I have also recently been advised that BILL HNUCANE died on Nov. 14, 1968. He was also in the educational field in Chicago. For the past 14 years he had been a member of the faculty of Chicago City Ccdlege—Wilson Campus. He is survived by his wife, Gladys, and two dau^ters— Doima, who teaches biology at Reavis Hi ^ Sdioal and Diane Vellinga, as well as a granddaughter, Noreen Vellinga. Masses are being said for each of these classmates. 
DICK HALPIN called recendy and said that Frank J. Gtuning, the 28-year-old son of JACK GRUNING, died suddenly on May 1, 1969, at Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, N.Y. We extend our condolences to our classmate upon this misfortune. 
A few days ago, in connection with the annual meeting of the Illinois State Bar Association, the different law schools sponsored luncheons for their respective alumni. One of these luncheons naturally was held by the ND lawyers. We were fortunate in having Dean Lawless address us. He gave us not only a report on the present status of the Law School but also a glimpse of the future. His plans are breathtaking, and give assurance that the next few years will be eventful. 
Among those in attendance at the luncheon was MIKE SWYGERT. He modesdy didn't mention it, but he was one of those who received an honorary law degree at ND at the commencement, June 1. He richly deserved the honor; he has long been recognized as one of the most eminent jurists in the country. Another classmate present at the limcheon was HARRY O'BOYLE. Probably everyone knows that Harry abandoned his bright prospects for a future in the law and became associated with Chevrolet Motor Co. For some years he has been district manager. Two of his dealers, both of the Class of '28 (apologies to LOU BUCKLEY), HOWARD PHALIN and ED McKEOWN were also present In addition to their professional attaimnents they have done a lot to keep Chevrolets on the road at Glen Ellyn, U., and vicinity. 
Judge ROGER KILEY "23, a colleague of Mike Swygert's on the Federal Appellate Bench was in attendance also, as was ALBERT O'SULLIVAN '18, chief judge of the State Circuit Court at Rockford and Belvidere. All told, the occasion was a very satisfactory one. 
Clarence J. Ruddy 
HI W. Downer Place Aurora, m. 60504 
•ZS DEVOTED MEMBER DIES Althou^ WnXARD WAGNER received his LL.B. in 1929, he elected to be a member of our class and was responsible for making our class reunions the greatest Many of the practices, such as class hats, used at reunions were introduced by Wag. Wag died in Phoenix, Ariz., May 23, after a two-monA illness. 
PHIL CENEDELLA called advising me of the death of LEO PAUL on July 13, 1%7, in Weedsport, N.Y. Leo had been ill for tnany years. Remember both Wag and Leo in yoor prayers. The class has arranged for Masses for them. 
TOM MAHON had a severe coronary in April and DENNY DALY has been seriously ffl with comj^cations from diabetes. Remember diem also in your prayers. 
nianks to PAT CANNY for the great job he did as dass agent which resulted in our class having by far the largest percentage of class contributions. We also appreciate ED McKEOWN's fine letter as cbss agent for deferred giving. Incidentally, Ed is back ikying gdf every day and feds no iU effects firom Us recent operation. 
We are looking forward to seeing you at the "28 cocktail parties at ND after the 
--•T"*?«sM^-!;v»ii:*''-'iS55!^ 


Congrats 
PAUL E. ROCHE '46. general sales engineer for the environmental engi­neering division of Gilbert Associates, Inc. in Reading, Pa., has been ap­pointed manager of a new oflfice in Springfield, Mass. 
Bro. SIDNEY HALLIGAN '47, pro­vincial treasurer for the Eastern Province of the Brothers of Holy Cross, recently observed his 2Sth an­niversaiy of his religious profession in the Congregation of Holy Cross. Brother resides with the Brothers of Holy Cross in West Haven, Conn. 
WILLIAM SIEBERT '48 has been re­elected city controller in Stevens Point, Wis., a position he has held since 1961. Prior to this, he was of­fice manager for Carley Coal and Heating Co. in Stevens Point, where he lives with his wife and four chil­dren. 
PAUL C. GORDON, '49, general manager of ITT Barton, has been elected vice-president of the environ­mental products division of Interna­tional Telephone and Telegraph Corp., headquartered in Philadelphia. Gor­don, his wife and four children are residents of Canoga Parte, Calif. 
ROBERT L. PROBST '49 has been 
appointed general manager of the metal powders division, a corporate of Federal-Mogul Corp., Detroit. He joined Federal-Mogul as a research metallurgist in 1949 and was recent­ly put in charge of all metal powder development. 
GERALD F. GUILTINAN '50 was elected vice-president of the interna­tional banking department of Bankers Trust Co. He had been an assistant vice-president since 1962 and assistant treasurer prior to that. He and his wife and their three children live in Katenah, N.Y. 
Southern California game on Oct. 18 and at JOE DORAN's outside of Lafayette after the Purdue game on Sept. 27. Particulars will be sent to you prior to the games. 
Sons of ART MILLER and JACK SHEEDY graduated from ND this year. Were there others? The son of J. J. MADDEN, assistant vice-president of Lincoln National Life Insurance Co. in Fort Wayne, was graduated from Indiana U. this year. How about others? 
DICK. QUINLAN called me from Fort Wayne where he lives at 608 Three Rivers No. about six months a year when he is not at his Florida address. GENE BROWN was visiting him. Dick reports a great get-together with BILL DALY, HARRY KRIMM, and Pat Canny on UND Night in Fort Lauderdale. 
Father JIM McSHANE SJ rode a tramp steamer and visited GEORGE LEPPIG, ART DENCHFIELD and GEORGE COURY in Miami. 
Judge BILL JONES presided at the practice court in South Bend sponsored by the ND Law School. Judges BOB GRANT and GEORGE BEAMER have served in this capacity also. 
VINCE CARNEY saw BERNIE GARBER on 46th SL in New York City after a matinee. Bernie's son, Clinton, is at Great Lakes with the Navy. JOHN ANTUS' son. Bob, whom we met when he was doing graduate work at Northwestern U., is now at Fort Dix. 
GEORGE CRONGEYER attended UND ni^t in New York City, and saw BOB HAMILTON and VIC FISCHER at the Alumni Seminar on Catholic Education, also in New York. 
JOE LANGTON"s daughter, a nun, is now located in Chicago where she is working with emotionally disturbed children. I hope this will result in our seeing Joe and Margaret more often. 
LEO WALSH of the Michigan Labor Mediation Board was a speaker at another successful union-management conference under the direction of Father MARK FITZGERALD, CSC. 
GUS JENKINS visited AL TEHAN in Springfield, Ohio. Gus teaches a few classes at the high school in Williamsville, 
N.Y. BERNIE BIRD'S son is interning at Passavant Hospital in Chicago. 
TOM JONES is practicing law in Boise, Idaho, with his son, who finished ND in '51. His daughter is also an attorney and is deputy prosecuting attorney of Twin Falls County, Idaho. 
BILL MURPHY called my attention to a Wall Street Journal article concerning the acquisition of Kaydon Engineering Corp. of Muskegon, Mich., by Keene Corp. FRANK DONOVAN advised me some time ago that he planned to retire June 30 as chief executive officer of Kaydon, but will remain another nine years as consultant. 
I also noted in the press a favorable report on the Leaseway Transportation Corp. of Cleveland. BILL O'NEILL is president of this organization. 
Announcement has been made of the awarding of the HOWARD V. PHALIN Foundation Fellowship at ND. Similar fellowships have been established at Northwestern, DePaul and Roosevelt Universities. 
We visited a funeral home in Evanston to extend our sympathy to BILL KIRWAN at the time his sister, Cecile Church, died. 
Bill Murphy reports that he saw die following classmates at the reunion weekend at ND this year: Rev. Jim McShane, PHIL CENEDELLA, "CLIPPER" SMITH, Pat Canny and GEORGE McLAUGHLIN. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt. 1007 
Chicago, III. 60626 
'30 GOOD-BYE NAVY! 
FRED CUNNINGHAM reUred from the Navy department last month after a number of years in civil service in Cali­fornia. He has recently moved to Menlo Park, Calif. JOE RUPPE, who now lives in San Francisco, wrote me recently about a visit my son paid at his household on his way to Vietnam. Joe's son, ROGER, and my son were pals throughout life and both eventually graduated from ND. The Ruppes will be visiting in the Midwest this summer. JIMMIE NAVARRE wrote of his plans to visit the campus this summer and to see a ball game in the fall. He is Jready reserving space for the 1970 reupi. r. He has been an insurance agent in Toil o for 16 years. Jim's four children are a!l Tiarried and he can claim 10 grand-
ch'ldreti. 
HAD MANSKE remains very active at Stevens Point, Wis., in his business, civic and parish affairs. He is still on a 170-acre farm, but expects a part of it to be developed for "cluster" type housing. Had r 'irifcicr of corporate relations to the chairman of the board of Sentry ln!>urance companies. BOB COONEY in Washington sent some pictures taken at dinner in the Touchdown Club last fall. He reports that the ailing TOOMEY is again in good health. BILL WALSH was recently on a mor ' 's business visit at Da Nang. FRANK X. O'NEIL is very active in civic affairs in Long Beach, Calif. Last fall, he was the general chair­man of a heart fund banquet 
Tim Toomey has been transferred to Boston, and is now living in Arlington. Mass., at 12 Windermere Ave. CHUCK GRUNING is still with the Long Island Lighting Co., having passed up an op­portunity for early retirement. He says that he sees CHARLIE DUFFY and GEORGE WINKLER a few times a year, and also corresponds regularly with GUS BONDI. Chuck has hi<: plans set for the 1970 reunion. BO RICHARDSON writes from Kansas City that he sees DAVE REILLY occasionally at their parish church. Dave has a son at ND who is a good tennis player just as his father was. Bo is- trying to learn the current address of PAT CONWAY. 
Rev. JIM RIZER was recently appointed pastor of St. Elizabeth's parish in Richmond, Va. He .would be happy to see any of the 1930 classmates who travel near the old rebel capital. Bob Cooney dropped a line from Florida where he had been vacationing and had spent a delightful evening with GEORGE COUREY '28 at if; Coury home in Coral Gables. Members of the class will be saddened by the news of the death of MARTIN J. REIDY last January. He had resided in Tulsa. I am sure you will want to remember him in your prayers. 
Devere T. Plunkett O'Shaughnessy Hall ; Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
31 1HEIR nasi FAKTY??? 
Greetings to the Class of 1931. I am happy to announce that for the first time in the history of our class, plans are in progress for a postgame reunion cocktail party Saturday, Oct 4, following the Michigan State game on campus. SPIKE SULLIVAN, TOM MONAHAN and MATT GAR­RIGAN have been instrumental in making arrangements. The most important thing is your cooperation. I would appreciate it if all those ordering seats for the MSU game who plan on attending this party will drop me a card so we will have some idea of the room required. Reservations have been made for two excellent campus locations and the final choice will be determined by an indication of attendance. Please do not delay as I hope to make the announcement in the next ALUMNUS. In addition there will be the usual public address system announcement. If there is an indication of more than 30 persons attending, it will be held in the Athletic and Convocation Center. If the response is lighter, it will be held in the Mahogany Room along with other classes, in the Morris Inn. 
RAYMOND F. COLLINS has been elected president of Serra Oub, West suburban area, Chicago. ROBERT L. PENDERGAST has by now made satis­factory convalescence after a gall bladder operation about two months ago, according to his brother Tom. While in Dietroit rccenUy I talked to HENRY KOPEK who was also resting in a hospital. He expects to be well enough to be on campus this fall. His wife said they were expecting a visit from Marie McQuaid, Vincennes, Ind., sometime this summer. 
Word was received from the Alumni Office of the death of ROBERT B. MARSHALL, Tampa, Fla., in January, 1%7. Please remember him in your prayers. BUD GEIS reported on UND Night in Los Angeles which he and ED SHEERAN attended. No word on other classmates in attendance. Spike Sullivan in his travels reports seeing at various times, CHARLEY CUSHWA, BOB GORE BOB MASSEY. Tom Monahan, AL GRISANTI, ED MURRAY and 1 am sure a few others he did not mention. (It seems a shame to give all these people a bit of class publicity and never hear from them. At least make up for it by sending a note on the MSU postgame party.) 
MATT GARRIGAN is fine and will handle contacting Detroit area classmates for Oct. 4. I hope GEORGE JACKOBOICE will also get busy on this. Don't forget appeals from DON O'TOOLE and JACK SAUNDERS in their respective fields of activity for class contributions to ND. Best wishes to all for a pleasant and safe summer. Please do not forget a card for Oct. 4, if you are attending the MSU game. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, III. 60201 
•32 VERY SKIMPY, BUT... 
In a newsy letter from BOB LEE, he mentioned that Lee and JIM COLLINS stopped over in Honolulu en route home from a trip to the Far East. They visited their daughter in Yokosuka, Japan, and saw their son-in-law who is an officer on a Navy ship which happened to be in Bangkok while they were there. 
Some many columns ago I asked, "Where the devil is Dania, Fla.?" I received a phone call from MIKE KELLY POWERS who said Dania is five miles south of Ft. Lauderdale and five miles north of Holly­wood. Thank you, MIKE. 
Sadly we note the passing of DANIEL 
F. CASSIDY of Rockville Centre, Long Island, N.Y. No details available. 
J. RAYMOND FOX has moved from San Francisco to SOI Forest Ave., Palo Alto, Calif. 94301. And we understand that F. BADEN POWELL is now at 3742 Mario Place, San Diego, Calif. 92U1. Our good friend LOUIS DEL PRETE is newly located at 45 Cinderella Lane, East Setauket, 
N.Y. 11733. The news is very skimpy, fellows, please send a card or two. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Rd. Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'53 ANY SUGGESTIONS, GEORGE? CHARLIE QUINN has graciously consented to serve as chairman for a '33 class reunion to be held in New York City over the Army-ND game weekend, Oct. 11, 
1969. Please write to him at: 9 Jochum Ave., Larchmont, N.Y. 10538. SAM HYDE, 243 Manhattan Ave., Crestwood, 
N.Y. 10707, has kindly volunteered to assist. Sam is in the employe relations department, American Can Co., 100 Park Ave., New York City. They expect GEORGE ROHRS to lend his know-how to make the get-together a success. 
As soon as the ND Club of New York determines which hotel will be chosen for the headquarters and rally, our committee will select the reunion site. Classmates in the N.Y. area should contact Chariie Quinn and Sam Hyde to offer assistance and suggestions. Our class president. Judge MAURICE W. LEE, thanks the committee for its help. 
Rev. John A. Schwantes SJ was ordained June 4 at Gesu Church, Milwaukee. He is the son of J. WARREN SCHWANTES. 
JOHN B. CROWE, who is assistant general counsel for Associates Investment Co. in South Bend, writes that he has been a grandfather for two years and soon expects a second grandchild. His daughter Barbara is married to a ND Law School graduate of '66 and resides in Valparaiso. His youngest daughter, Caty, is planning on attending college. John mentions that he was in general practice in South Bend before going with Standard Oil (Indiana) and then with Associates. Thanks for the news, John! It doesn't seem like 34 years ago when we left the ND Law School and went forth to do battle with the Depression. My kids say: "What was the Depression, dad?" 
RAY NABER called recently and told me that he was planning a trip to the campus to pick up his son who was just finishing his first year at ND. Ray still lives in Louisville and plans lo write his old roomie, NORM DUKE, to congratulate him on his membership in the Alumni Senate. He proposes that we nominate Sam Hyde as our member on the new All-University Forum. 
MARTY MORAN attended the spring football game on the campus and said it rained the entire day. It was the first time he was able to park the car directly in front of Gate 14 and sit on the 50-yard line. He saw his cousin, ED MORAN '34, at half-time. 
At the Februarj- convocation commemo­rating the centennial of the ND Law School, members of the '33 class received the degree of Doctor of Jurisprudence, retro­active to the date of the recipient's bachelor of laws degree. Some of the recipients were: JOHN A. BERRY, ANTHONY W. BRICK, WILLIAM A. BURKE. NICHOLAS P. CHOLIS, CHARLES A. CONLEY, JOHN B. CROWE, ANTHONY 
W. CROWLEY, WILLIAM F. DONAHUE, NORMAN E. DUKE, ROBERT B. FILSON, LEO W. HODEL, JOSEPH V. KIRINCICH, MAURICE W. LEE, FRANK 
G. MATAVOSKY, PAUL F. O'NEIL and DONALD F. WISE. Other recipients from our era were: LOUIS F. FAUTSCH, ROBERT H. KENLINE and WILLIAM 
J. KENNEDY. If I missed anyone, write to me! 
Charles A. Conley 
100 E. Tumbull Ave. 
Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'39 AKOUND THE WORLD IN 
M DAYS? Just as I'm despairing of getting any news into the ALUMNUS, out comes the June issue with our column. Not only that, but it carries a feature article on Dr. JOHN 
C. LUNGREN, President Nixon's personal physician since 1960. 
Returned home from a round-the-world trip with my wife Helene, visiting CFM families in Israel, New Delhi, India, Bangkok, Hong Kong, Philippines, Japan and Hawaii, but met nary a classmate. We did stay overnight with TONY ORTIZ "56 in Babylon, N.Y., on the way out and saw Rev. BEDE FITZPATRICK '43, president of Fransica College in Tokyo. Father said he was back for his 2Sth reunion last year and shared beers and tales with some of us. Back home I found a card from TOM SHEILS, 17250 Parthenia Rd., Northridge, Calif., saying he has a new and larger ofiice in Hollywood. Tom has two sons and a daughter attending Portland U. and two in grade school. 
Went out to Monogram reunion. Class of '38 had a table at which were DON FISHER, South Bend's finest insurance executive; HARVEY FOSTER, now vice-president for American Airlines in Chicago: ANDY PUPLIS, also from Chicago; CHARLES "CHUCK" SWEENEY, still South Bend's .swinging salesman for Sinclair; and TOM WUKOVITS, Firestone personnel head in Detroit. Tom's son just returned from Air Force duty in Vietnam and is now stationed in San Diego where he met CHARLEY CALLAHAN at the airport recently and got updated on pro football and backdated on ND sports. 
JOHN MURPHY, as National Monogram Club president, swung the fastest program in history, thanks to rapid-fire motions, seconds and comments from our table. GEORGE "JAKE" KOVALCIK. the bullet-throwing bomber for Layden's lads who started with us, but finished in '39, was back for the reunion and asked about Rev. JOE RACE, BABE MARSHALL and a host of other '38ers. Instead of answering fully I told him'to come to our next reunion, and he promised. 
LEONARD C. JOYCE, former terminal manager for Akron-Chicago, Inc., will head the second training program developed by the Chicago Conference on Religion and Race (CCRR) which prepare men to be city truck drivers for Chicago's giant transportation industry. Dr. JOHN FOGEL, who played a lot of center for Joe Boland's gang, is at home now at 5028 Edgewoitli 
Rd.. San Diego, «liidi 1 learned just after 
visiting my sister there. 
CHUCK DALY'S two daii^teis. Shaion and HoDy, just retunied home to Florida from Ireland where they have been studying art for the past two years. Shaion has six of her paintings in the Palin Beadi Art Calleiy and has won several prizes besides appearing in two movies. "Fortune's Door" and "Alex." whBe in Irdand. Holly's main interest is sculpturing. 
Take your class list as you go on vacation and look up '38ers on the way—then report to me. Right? Write! 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 
>4* FSOM AN MIDMISr 
There is no question in my mind that this is the last relatively short cdunm in the history of the Oass of '40. With our reunion less than a year away we sboidd start receiving many interesting observations from all who are coming and also bringing some of the more reluctant ones. 
ReUable GERRY SAEGERT reports that in spite of a shortage of '40 news in the N.Y. area., our class was significantly honored in the recent dections for the Board of Directors of the ND Club of New York. Three men were elected: LOU SANTINI for Westchesten JIM KELLY for Nassau; and one Gerry Saegert for New York City. It certainly is a compliment to our class to have three men so recognized. Gerry also reports that JIM ROGERS from New York and LARRY DEVEREUX from Chicago had sons graduate from our University this spring. 
JIM DONOGHUE sent roe clippings from both the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times announcing the election of WILLIAM H. O'BRIEN as president of Shulton. Inc. Bill has been with Shulton since 1953. and the executive vice-president since 1963. He resides in Franklin Lakes, NJ. Congratidations SOI! All of us are pleased for you. 
UND Night in Chicago was most interesting in spite of the fact that I only found four other men of '40 at the affair. Sat at TOM MONAHAN's table, and saw DAN HUSHEK. TOM KELLY and Jim Donoghue during the predinner activities. My usual partner. Rev. JOHN 
F. ANTON '38. was unable to attend, but did get to the ND festivities in Fort Lauderdale in the company of CHARLIE CALLAHAN '38. 
Kay and I were privileged to have Rev. JAMES FAHEY CSC. '52 celebrate our nuptial Mass in Troy. Ohio, June 7. He is now located in Natchitoches. La., after some years in the same parish with Rev. JOHN T. PAYNE CSC in Austin. Tex. The four of us. namely Kay. Shorty, and Pam and Jerry, our two children, will be moving to South Bend very soon; so please note the new address at the end of this column. Although we do not kiww our telephone number at this time. I expect you to use your ingenuity and get in touch with us when in the area. This request also applies to those SMC yoimg ladies who happen to read my efforts. Since I have not received any other suggestions I expect to see all of you who come to the football games at Gate 3 after the games. 
Robert G. Sanford 
302 Rue Rabelais Apt 620 
South Bend. Ind. 46615 
'42 MUCHAS GRACIAS, MAinUCE! Many thanks to MAURICE KELLY for bringing us up to date on several of our classmates. Maurice says that in April he was in Bermuda, as was VINCE DAIGLER, but they missed seeing each other because Vince was busy riding around the island on a motor bike. Maurice keeps in touch with PAUL KELLEY, who lives in Syracuse and has a beautiful summer house at Eagle Bay in the Adirondacks. Paul has invited Maurice, along with GEORGE BLATT (now living in Cleveland) to vacation at his Ea^e Bay home in August, so this should be a great reunion! Paul Kelley also visited with FRANK McGlNTY recently. Frank is stationed in Las Vegas with the FBI. We appreciate the very nice letter we had from THOMAS KENEDY, who after July 1, wll be living at 112 Park Ave., Saranac Lake, N.Y. Tom sends his greetings from the heart of the Adirondacks, where he says, "They have two seasons: winter and the 4th of July." Tom's letter states in part, "I'm now involved with the American Management Association's young adult program, called management intern­ship program, at Saranac Lake, the former Trudeau Sanatorium establishment, and what a beautiful campus. I work with college graduates who enroll here for an eight-month course, helping them develop the philosophies, skills and tools to enable them to become effective leaders in business management Sorry I didn't get into this a long time ago, but this program is less than two years old." Tom saw JOHN HOELSCHER in New York City last October and hopes that any of our classmates who might be in his area will get in touch with him. Our condolences to BYRON KANALEY on the death of his wife, Salli, who died suddenly on June 7. Also, the sad news of the death of PAUL E NEVILLE, who passed away in Buffalo, June 21, after a brief illness. Paul was executive editor of the Buffalo Evening News. 
Keep the news coming in fellows—^it's really great hearing from you! Have a good summer. 
WiUiam M. Hickey 5500 W. 73rd St. Chicago, 111. 60638 
'43 THOSE YELLOW CARDS The ALUMNUS office advises us that Rt. Rev. Msgr. ANTHONY M. BROWN, president of Carroll College, Helena, Mont., will join the staff of the College of St Thomas as administrative vice-president. He will assume his new duties at St Paul, Minn., in July. 
Also from the ALUMNUS office. Rev. GEORGE BERNARD CSC is on a year's sabbatical leave and is staying at St Bede Academy in Peru, 111. He is teaching courses in moral theology to the seminarians there. 
ED HANRAHAN, Cook County, 111., state attorney, was the recipient of the Albert J. Koran Memorial Award—Man of the Year—by his high school alma mater, St Philip's. This award for outstanding service and dedication was presented in Orchestra Hall by Senator Neistein. Congratidations, Ed. 
Mike Kaiser, son of your secretary, recently graduated from St Bede Academy, Peru, 111., where he served as president of the student council, president of the senior 
class, named Senior of the Year, and 
selected as an Outstanding Teen-ager of 
America by the Outstanding American 
Foundation. Mike will attend ND in 
September and reside in Stanford Hall. 
May I acquaint you gentlemen with the 
yellow cards placed in the ALUMNUS? You 
write on same, affix stamp, and address to 
me, your balding and frustrated secretary. 
Now I know why poor JACK WIGGINS 
became so gray-haired. You guys batted 
.000 in the last two issues—not one card 
or letter. And to think that Prof. Frank 
O'Malley bragged of the journalistic talents 
of the '43eis. 
Again may I ask that all men having 
sons (or daughters) attending ND this 
coming year please forward name, class, 
hall and college. Please do this even 
though you had answered this request last 
year. 

Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry St 
Chatsworth, III. 60921 
'45 BRING A FIFTH 
Dr. RAY BADDOUR has been named 
head of the department of chemical 
engineering at MIT. Ray has been at MIT 
since 1948 and is internationally known 
for the development of new techniques in 
chemical processes. 
BUD GOTTA will head Connecticut 
Mutual Life's 104th national agency 
based in Chicago. 
Class Agent JOE HAGGAR reported the 1968 statistics to us. .. . I think we all agree with Joe that we can do better. 
Class President BILL KLEM and 
Reunion Chairman HARRY WALTHERS 
are busy at work planning our Silver An­
niversary next year. They welcome your 
thoughts and ideas. Bill has come up 
with a good slogan . . . bring a fifth to the 
2Sth . . . five classmates, that is .. . . 
Frank M. Linehan 
P.O. Box 5000 
Binghamton, N.Y. 13902 
'46 COCHRANE DIES APRIL 12 It is with deep regret and sorrow that I report the passing of a wonderful and friendly classmate, CHRIS COCHRANE. A letter from his wife, Marilyn, informed me that Chris died suddenly on April 12, as a result of a heart attack. He had been employed by Allis Chalmers in West Allis, Wis. Besides his wife he leaves a son, Chris Jr. Please remember him in your prayers. 
For more pleasant news I am happy and thankful to report that I received a note from another member of the '46 graduating class, Bro. CAJETAN HOL­LAND CSC. Bro. Holland is presently teaching at Notre Dame High School, West Haven, Conn., and recently acted as technical director of a musical show entitled "Swing Out '69." The show was sponsored on behalf of Notre Dame High and was a complete sellout Con­gratulations on a job well done, Brother. 
1 trust you all had a most enjoyable and relaxing vacation. Now that we can look forward to a happy fall season why not take a little time to jot down some news for the next issue? 
That's it! 
Peter P. Richiski 
6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
'4* WHAT HAHENED TO THE OTHER M%? 
It seems as though eveiyone has nm out of gas since the last reunion, and «4iile only about 10 percent made the get-together, the other 90 percent haven't chipped in much either up until now. 
ROBERT McSHANE is the manager of the Snelling and Snelling Employment Agency branch in St Joseph, Mo. This is a new office which opened recently and Bob, his wife and three children are living in St Joseph at 907 Ashland Court Anyone looking for work closer to St Joseph can send resumes to Bob and he will see what is available in the area. 
LOU TWARDZIK, professor at Michigan State, has been named chairman of the Department of Park and Recreation Resources in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources. BILL DIOGUARDI has ended his coaching career at Montclair State College in New Jersey, after 21 years at the helm of the diamond ship. He is now athletic director for Montclair State. During his tenure, Montclair won college conference crowns in nine seasons and won 300 games while losing only 139. JOHN DiGANN of Mishawaka, who handled our reunion arrangements so well last June, has left his position as vice-president and senior trust officer at the First National Bank of Mishawaka. He has joined in the partnership of a local law firm. 
JOHN RAY is now at the U. of Ken­tucky. TOM LANDIG has moved from Madison, NJ., to Orange, Calif. MURRAY McNAMARA has moved from Overland, Kan., to Morristown, NJ . CHARLES MELIA has moved from Denver to Park Ridge, 111., and GERRY EVERT has gone from Chattanooga to Houston. ERNIE RAUSCHER's son, after finishing four years at all-scholarship Regis Jesuit High School in New York City, was rather coldly not accepted at ND but welcomed most warmly at Georgetown and Holy Cross. He chose the latter. The nonacceptance of sons of alumni who meet all the high levels of the well-rounded individual does not help for the improvement of the breed which is so necessary under present campus conditions. After hearing "Notre Dame" for 17-18 years, it must be a very frus­trating experience to hear that "son" isn't ND material. Many of us are reaching that stage about this time as the heirs to our fame and fortune come of age. 
George J. Keenan 
177 Rolling Hills Rd. aifton, NJ. 07013 
'5« A VISIT WITH "LI'L ABNER" 
Rev. DON KUNKEL is in the beautiful Ozark Mountain country near the 
U. of Aikansas, Box 155, Huntsville, Ark. His parish includes Al Capp's recrea­tional area. Dog Patch, and his church is a remodeled two-car garage. Sr. MARY BORGIA FEHLIG OSU has received her Ph.D. in education at St Louis U. Her thesis was "The Emerging Role of the Catholic Two-Year Commuter College." Dr. CALVIN J. BENNING has been appointed manager of new technology research at International Paper Co.'s cor­porate research center, Sterliiig Forest, N.Y. 
JOE ARCHIBALD has organized a 
^ 

:MMMS 

Bob Erkins looks over his "fish story.' 
An interesting angle --- er! 
Life in the big city got you down? Is the hustle-bustle pace getting to you? Has the everyday drive to the office become a terrifying life-or-death freeway battle leading to but another dreary stint behind a desk? 
Want to change things? Here's the panacea for your woes. 
Get together with your wife and scrape up the family fortune, gather your courage, pack your family a thousand miles north to the hinter­
. lands and buy yourself an Idaho trout farm . . . just like Bob Erkins '45 did back in I9S2 when life in the city reached its saturation point with him. 
From that point on, the plot thick­ens rapidly. You add three new trout farms to your original operation. You build a modem packaging plant and a feed-producing plant featuring a new innovation in fish food. You ac­cumulate a full-time staff of 75, including two biologists. You scientifically refine and improve the breeding methods of your rainbow beauties. And by 1969, with a little luck and a lot of hard work, you're producing more than two million 
manufacturers' sales agency in Maywood, 
III. BOB BOSLER is now a It. col. in the USAF, and is the director of personnel, Don Muang Royal Thai AFB, Thailand. We appreciate the work of Bob and all of our other dear ones in the armed forces. 
You will recall in a past'tissue J had noted the students' petition for reduc­tion of theology and philosophy under­graduate courses. Since then my contact, through CCD, with children in secular schools, their reading about drugs, pills, abortions, etc., and not relating those "current soci^ happenings" to religion, is more evidence to me that what we were taught in moral theology and Christian ethics at ND can only be brought to these children through parents—persons like you who have principles of conscience organized tried and true. 
JOHN FORDE JR., practicing law in California, replied to my comments concerning this "Christian Rudder in the Sea of life" as follows: "I mtist neces­sarily concur in your conunent regarding 'the rudder.' I have been practicing in this area, a bedroom community of San 
pounds of rainbow trout annually— 
more than 30 per cent of the Ameri­
can trout market. 
So goes the Bob Erkins story in 
capsule form. The seeds to the some­
what unusual success story were 
actually planted in Bob's early child­
hood when he developed an intense 
interest infish—^so much so that on 
cross-country jaunts with his folks he 
would insist on stopping at every fish 
hatchery on the map. 
After leaving ND to serve a Navy 
hitch in the Pacific, Erkins returned 
to the States to enter the hotel 
business. He reluctantly remained as 
an innkeeper until the opportunity to 
buy the Snake River Trout Farm 
cropped up—an opportunity he didn't 
have to think twice about. 
Since his little sojourn that started it all in 1952, Erkins has made a real impression on the relatively small industry of which he is a part. He has transformed rainbow trout, a one­time game fish and table luxury, into an easily accessible commercial product available to the public. He has, through scientific innovation, im­proved the growth rate and size of 
Francisco, since 1955. As an insight into the problems confronting the general practitioner, I must advise you that for the past 10 years the number of divorce complaints filed exceeds the number of marriage licenses issued by the county clerk. 
"Most of the people living in this area are relatively well educated, and work in adjacent counties, Alameda and San Francisco primarily, usually in rather high paying executive positions. Although proficient in their technical specialties, I am shocked by their lack of ability to reason and think clearly on most social and family problems. On the other hand, those who have had formal religious or philo­sophical training are able to function in these areas quite efficiently and maintain a relatively stable life, happiness and peace of mind. As the secularism that pervades our institutions, particulariy educational, continues to rise, the training in these fields of jdiilosophy and theology seems to decrease at an inverse ratio. Further, as secularism increases, so do the family and social problems, anxiety 
rainbow trout He and his staff have 
combined to develop a blend of nuts 
and bohs, called an eviscerator, 
which compietdy cleans and readies 
the fish for quick freezing and pack­
aging at a rapid rate. 
Although he has an unusual and 
successfiil occupaticm which he loves. 
Bob Erkins isnt one torestrict himself 
to business interests. He has been 
active in the Boy Scouts of America 
over the years, is a member of the 
Idaho St ^ Chamber of Conunerce 
and is a part-time lecturer at the 
University of Washington. He has 
also been honored as one of the ten 
outstanding small businessmen in the 
country and was elected last year to 
the ND Alumni Board of Directors. 
The Erkins story is unusual in many ways. His We, Bamee, just happens to be a zodtogat who puts in a full day's work with the trout. He has nine children, seven of WIKMU are girls with names beginning with the letter M. And he is the largest producer-packer of rainbow trout in the worid. Not bad for a guy who went north to get away £rom big city life! 
and neuroses, at ippfoxinutely the same 
ratio of increase. 
"The fiequency of family proUems and the debris of the violence and vidatility thereof have increased and accdeiated at a horrendous rate by my experience, and the^caHcnsiis of other peisons sampled by me iii this community, wfaelber from the medical field, sociologists or idigious commimities. Your concern in this area is both well founded and cominendable, and my compliments to yoa for your alertness and insist, as wdl as for year courage in publicly expiessiiig your sentiments." 
Holing tins iriU find yoa all healthy and bappy, I ask yoo to send me some information for the adimin. 

Sparky Thornton 
4400 Monsenate St Coral Gables, Fh. 33146 
'51 NO MOBE lOKEK 

FRED BRICE was oidained in Miann . 
on the vigS of Pentecost and said fab fint 

Mass the next d«y. BOB CLEMENCY 
went down from Milwaukee, BOB BERRY 
flew in from Omaha and JOHN 
BUCKLEY had the entire tribe there 

from Chicago. Three weeks later Fr. Fred 
said another first Mass in his old parish 
in Skokie, III., and many of his local 
friends were there. John Buckley made this 
one again, and JIM LaCESA, JOE 
KIGALI, TOM KIGIN and JOE 
CHANIGA were also in attendance with 
their families. We tried to take the 
optimistic view, not that the poker club 
has lost a member, but that the diocese of 
Miami has gained a priest. 
Talked to HARRY HANIGAN, who is assistant manager of the Hanley Manu­facturing Co. in Chicago. Harry and his wife, Marie, reside with their six children at 10625 Tripp, Oak Lawn, 111. The six children include Brian, Mary Beth, Danny, Maureen, Bobby and Carol. 
Harry mentioned that JERRY HANK is running the Montgomery Elevator Co. in Moline. Harry and Jerry plan to visit DICK MCDONALD and have a small reunion during the weekend of the Purdue game, Sept. 27. Also expected to attend this get-together are BOB KLINGEN­BERGER, BOB HOFF, BUD HERR and PAT O'SULLIVAN. Because they only drink milk and avoid raucous outbursts during the game, it may be difficult to spot this crew. 
DAN and Jean MINAHAN have taken the family out West to 920 Singing Wood Dr., Arcadia, Calif. 91006. Congratulations to Dan on being named corporate vice-president and labor counsel for Broadway-Hale Corp. in Los Angeles. We now have quite a few classmates in that area. 
Had a call from JACK O'BRIEN the last time he passed through town. Jack and Janet live at 2133 Vestridge Dr., Birmingham, Ala. 35216. They had three children when Jack called; the fourth may have arrived by now. Jack owns and runs the O'Brien Engineering Co. in Birmingham, specializing in engineering and supplying automated equipment. Jim Jennings 
Borg-Wamer Corp. 
200 S. Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, HI. 60604 
'52 A DOUBLE LIFE LOUIS J. BARILLA is now leading a double life. As a full-time civilian he is working for the Naval Air Rework Facility in Jacksonville, Fla., where he is involved with industrial depot, repairing military aircraft engines and related hardware. He is also a naval reservist, holding the rank of commander and currently serving as executive officer of the Naval Air Systems Command Reserve Unit, a reserve component consisting pri­marily of engineering officers. Somehow, Lou also found time to obtain a master's degree in en^neering at the U. of Florida in 1968. DENNIS B. DELANEY writes from Mus­kegon, Mich., that he has recently changed employers. Dennis is now business manager of the greater Muskegon Catholic Central High School. This year he has the honor of being the Michigan District governor of the 90 Optimist Clubs of the state of Michigan. We were deeply sorry to hear of the passing of his mother in December, 1968. BERNARD LYNCH is a real pillar in the community of Geneva, N.Y. He is the youngest president of the Lynch 
Furniture Co., a director in the local bank 
and the YMCA, and a commander 
of the American Legion Post. 
RUDY UNGER has his by-line gracing 
many articles in the Chicago Tribune. 
The world's greatest newspaper has been 
real fortunate in having Rudy writing 
articles exposing tax evaders throughout 
the Chicago area. Rudy was always 
a crusader and it seems he has found his 
niche in writing for the paper. 
HOWARD L. BATTLE has been named 
racing secretary of the Continental 
Thoroughbred Racing Association. He 
had been associated with Hialeah and 
Detroit race tracks. JAMES F. 
MUTSCHELLER has won membership in 
the President's Club of National Life 
Insurance Co. of Vermont for the ninth 
straight time. Mutscheller is currently 
first vice-president of the Baltimore Life 
Underwriters Association. 
FRANK J. BOUSKA, assistant to the executive vice-president for the admin­istration of the Combined Insurance Co. of America in Chicago, has been appointed assistant secretary. BILL CUDDY has recently sent out an appeal to all classmates for an annual contribution to the University. It would behoove all of us to sit down and send a few dollars to the school we all love so much. It's a chance for all of us to show our real appreciation of the wonderful memories and friends we have made throughout the years at ND. 
William B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. 
South Bend. Ind. 46614 
'55 SYMPATHY EXTENDED 
While preparing for the class reunion after 
the Southern Cal game, 1 learned of the 
deaths of two classmates. BILL BURNETT 
died May 2. Our sympathies go to 
his widow, Pat, and their children. Also just recently learned of the Jan. 12, 1%7, death of JIM McLAUGHLIN. Our sympathy also goes to his widow, Dorothea. 
A Mass for both men was celebrated on campus. 
Received a yellow card from LARRY BREHL, who has been manager of internal communications and community relations for the aerospace electrical division of Westinghouse in Lima, Ohio, for the past three years. Larry has been with Westinghouse nearly 12 years, following a tour with the Navy. Larry and Dorothy have three children. 
Also got a yellow epistle from BUD LA LONDE 2355 Onandaga Dr., Columbus, Ohio, our James R. Riley professor of marketing and logistics at Ohio State. As he puts it, "With a degree from ND and MSU and teaching at OSU, I certainly should be rooting for someone in the top 10 next fall." 
Received a postcard from Rome from the traveling Betty and AL COWLES, who celebrated their 13th anniversary in the Eternal City. They wrote they are ".seeing Italy through the lens of a camera and the bottom of a wine glass." 
DAN SHANNON has been elected president of the Chicago park district, one of the youngest in history to hold the job. With his six children, Dan has plenty of park inspectors. Incidentally, Dan is being boomed as the successor to Mayor Richard J. Daley. His high school and college teammate, TOM CAREY, is the proud father of a new girl, Aileen. 
Hats olT to RALPH GUGLIELMI on his 
widely quoted statement on student 
freedom in colleges today: "I was kicked 
out of school for a whole semester for 
coming in 25 minutes late one night. 
Nowadays you bust up a school and they 
beg you to come back." 
JIM CORCORAN of Evanston, 111., has 
been appointed to the nine-member 
Council of Practicing Lawyers, which 
advises the editors of the Illinois Law 
Forum published by the U. of Illinois. 
CY LINDEMANN has been named 
manager of the new building products center 
that Monsanto has just opened in Oak 
Creek, Wis. RON McMANUS has 
been named to the newly created position 
of marketing manager for industrial and 
tnilitary electrolytic capacitors for Sprague 
Electric Co., North Adams, Mass. 
MIKE KELLY is now sales representative 
in the Chicago district for the Allied Oil 
Co., a division of Ashland Oil. 
ED SCHICKLER, 990 Pear Tree Lane, 
Webster, N.Y., writes that he and Marilyn 
attended the Illinois game last fall and 
ran into JIM HESBURGH and DICK 
BURKE. He's a project engineer with 
Kodak; also a lieutenant commander in the 
naval reserve and commanding officer of his 
unit in Rochester. He adds that he 
received his P.E. registration last year and 
made Who's Who in the East. They 
have two boys and a girl. 
See you over a cool one after the big 
win over USC! 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Dr. 
Glenview, 111. 60025 
'S5L SUCCESS 
My recent letter to our cla.ssmates asking 
them for information to include in my 
article has brought speedy and sensational 
results. I must have received over 30 
responses; consequently, I will be unable 
to include each one in this issue. 
JOHN J. FISH JR. is practicing law with his dad in Dearborn, Mich., having a practice devoted principally to probate, divorce and negligence work. John, his wife and six children have the unusual distinction of residing-in a Southern colonial home which is now 120 years old. John is president of his parish school board, and is energetically campaigning for aid from the state of Michigan to non­public schools. Good luck, John! 
After graduation, ROBERT J. EVELD served as general counsel for the Marine Corps Supi^y Center in San Francisco, and later worked with Melvin Belli and assisted him in writing the treatise "Modem Trials." 
^Married in 1957, Bob returned to South 
Bend where he worked for Curtis-Wright 
along with JIM ROEMER, and in 1959, 
moved to Fort Wayne with ITT Labo­
ratories. During these years. Bob traveled 
extensively throughout the country. On one 
of his trips he loaned President Richard 
Nixon a pencil with which the President 
drafted the speech he gave in Chicago at 
Soldier's Field. 
Bob went with his present employer, Litton Industries, in 1963. He set up the Camp Atterbury Job Corps Center in Southern Indiana in 1965. Presently, he is manager of the subcontract department of Litton, having responsibility for several hundred million dollars' worth of pro­curements. Well, Bob, the last 14 years have proved both interesting and challenging. 
TOM iCING spent three years in the Army after graduation, mostly in Germany with his wife, Marion. In 1958, he established a general practice in Toledo, specializing in personal injury and real estate. Presently, Tom is a member of the city of Toledo law department and is quite active in Democratic party affairs. Besides the practice of law, Tom has recently purchased an interest in a national restaurant chain and in his spare time he enjoys his small stable of horses. 
MATT K.EHOE worked with the Internal Revenue Service in Toledo until 1964 when he left to establish a private practice specializing in taxation. Matt wished me to tell all of his classmates that his six children have not changed any; they still have large appetites. Prof. Peters shotdd take note of the fact that Matt has tried a large number of cases before the tax court and has yet to lose his first case. 
If anyone knows the whereabouts of ED REARDON and PETE DONAHUE, I would appreciate a letter. 
John P. Coyne 
810 National City Bank Bldg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
'5C FOTPOUSKI Plans are progressing for the Southern Cal reunion on Oct. 18, 1969. Please put this on your calendars and plan to attend. The exact details will be announced in the September issue of the ALUMNUS. Our class officeis are engaged in the initiation of a class project and we will keep you informed as to the possible projects to be pursued. We mourn the death of RALPH P. KEPNER and our sincere sympathy is extended to his widow and family. Please remember Ralph in your prayers. Maj. RUSSELL W. GRAY JR. recenUy helped launch a U.S. Air Force Minuteman II intercontinental ballistic missile from Vandenberg AFB, CaUf. GERALD L. SPAETH was recently appointed vice-president of Bulk Terminals Co. and general manager of that firm's Lake Calumet facilities in Illinois. Please don't forget to make use of the yellow information cards and keep us posted as to what's new. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 668 EUicott Square Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
•57 NEVER TOO MANY REUNIONS Set your sights for Oct. 4, 1969, as the class reunion date. ND vs. MSU is the game. An announcement will be made at the game regarding the location of the cocktail site. Don't miss it. MATT TUTINO writes that he is married to the former Lois Rimlinger, sister of DON RIMLINGER, and has six children, including two sets of twins. The Tutinos reside in Mahopac, N.Y., where Matt is on the board of directors and executive vice-president of Decitron Com­munications Systems and Decitrom Electronics Corp. JIM DRISCOLL is with Equitable Life Assurance Society in Youngstown, Ohio. Jim and Mary Kay now have five children. ANDY SALANSICY is now in Wappinger Falls, N.Y., managing the advanced maniifacturing engineering group at IBM in Poughkeepsie. Andy reports that BOB 
FRUIN is now living in Cupertino, Calif., and associated with Amelco Semiconductor. 
The Clime worid in Pittsburgh is breathing a 
little easier now that RICH JACOB has 
left the D.A.'s office and entered private 
practice with his brother and father. Rich 
reports that DAN BEGGY has joined the 
D.A.'s office in Pitt as of Feb. 3, 1969. 
Another barrister in Pitt is MIKE BOYLE, 
who is local president of the ND Club and 
father of five. FRANK MILNE is Uving 
in Naperville, HI., and the father of three. 
Frank received his M.S. in chemical 
engineering from Northwestern U. in 1960 
and is now with the process design and 
economics division of the research and 
development department of Amoco 
Chemical Corp., Whiting, Ind. 
To the wife of an alumnus who writes 
for the whereabouts of JACK BRENNAN 
of Gary, I am pleased to report that Jack 
and wife Dorothy are residing in Evanston 
raising their family. Just recently Jack 
was promoted to vice-president of the 
mergers and acquisition division of the 
First National Bank of Chicago. 
Mrs. Dora Colgan proudly 
writes to tell us that husband DICK 
COLGAN has published an article in the 
Peabody Journal of Education, Vol. 46, 
No. 4, January, 1969, entitled "Stuttering— 
Signal to Emotional Distress," and will 
deliver a research paper at the annual 
convention of the American Personnel and 
Guidance Association in April. The 
Colgans are residing in Warwick, R.I. 
Geologist DICK MEINERT is with Gulf on in New Orleans. His wife Choo Choo was expecting twins in April, to make the count five in aU. DENNIS TROESTER has joined the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. in South Bend. JOHN REARDON has joined Hamilton Cosco, Inc., of Columbus, Ind., as manager of marketing services. 
George W. Groble 
111 W. Washington St. 
Chicago, III. 60602 
'58 GREETINGS TO ALL Congratulations are extended to THOMAS MALONEY SJ, who was ordained to the priesthood June 14, 1969, in Hollywood, Calif. He offered his Mass of Thanksgiving June 15 at Xavier Center, Loyola High School, Los Angeles. Fr. Tom forwards his greetings to all his former classmates. BILL HICKEY is still at Colorado State U. where he is defensive line coach of the varsity football team. The Hickeys recently welcomed the arrival of their third child and second son named Patrick Leahy Hickey. Bill reports AUBREY LEWIS is now with the Woolworth Co. and does extensive traveling as a recruiter for the company. Aubrey was a former agent with the FBI, is married, has five children and lives in Montclair, NJ. BILL SCANLON has begun a practice of ophthalmology in Aurora, in. His second son was bom last March. Bill reports that RAY HALING is heading for a USAF assignment in Germany, and that BOB LENAR is practicing internal medicine at Pompano, Fla. JOE GAGLIARDI is now a lab controller for IBM at Poughkeepsie, N.Y. Last fall BOB MOLUMBY was licensed as a practicing architect in the state of Illinois and is with Perkins & Will Architects in their department of planning and urban design in Chicago. Bob will be married in October to Edith Nina Taylor. JOHN AMANN is in business with his father, John Amann & Sons Co., Palos 
Heights, UL the AmaiOB now have fire 
chfldren, the newest boni Jan. 7, 1969. 
Maj. GERALD McCABE is statitned at 
Phu Bai, Vietnam, after having spent a 
year in Tuilcey and 18 mondis in Washing­
ton. In May he received an M.BJL &om 
Arizona State U. 
ROGER J. ELDRED has now moved to 
18983 Paitsid^ Detroit 48221. Roger is 
a research chonist at General Motors 
Research Labs in Wairen, MidL He is 
working on robber and'pdymer reseaidL 
He and wife Eleanoie have four dnldren. 
David (6), Mary Clare (5), Christine (4). 
and Peter (3). 
Maj. JEROME G. COWER, lAo earned 
the Bronze Star Medal for his service in 
Vietnam, is now serving as commanding 
officer. Company "A" at Headqoaiteis 
Marine Corps. He had been in Vietnam 
for 18 months. He and wife, Chailesetta 
Maria, have three duldren, Patrick Charies 
(II), Jdi Claire (10), and Glad(ys Shawn 
(7). 

Maj. CHESTER H. MORRIS was 
promoted to his present rank on Mardi 12, 
at the U.S. Army Fli ^ Training Cteter 
in Georgia. He is an obstetrician and 
gynecolo^st at the Hunter Army Aiifidd. 
He is married to the former Sondia Jane 
Bush. 

JOHN L. SHEEHY JR. has been 
advaiKed to disposable products sales 
development specialist for KendalTs Fiber 
Products Division. 
Arthur L. Roule Jr. 
102 1 St 

LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
fltL BBS GVILIUSS To those of you iriio have been wondeiinK I have nothing to do with composing the captions that have been ancaiing of late above the dass reports. They reflect the whim of the powers that be in the management of this puUication. Any brickbats, or bricks and bats, that migiit be in order should be directed or thrown at that quarter. Most of the news coming across my desk has been news of changes. DON GARRITY has left the Montana attorney general's office for the private firm of Camwn, Smith & Gani^ in Helena. I have become associated with Schwartz It Freeman in Chicago. HUGH McGUIRE has removed his Detroit office to parts unknown. Where are you, Hu^? Letters to you have been returned "address unknown." JOHN BEGGAN has become a partner in the Gardner Carton firm in Chicago. Congrats to you, John. If any of you are going to football games this fan, please let me know. If there are enou^ people going to one, maybe we can organize sometlmig for that evening. 
John A. DiNardo 450 OaUand Dr. Hi^iland Parte, OL 60035 
ta MEMCS JMN PMKB CapL THOMAS WILLMENG received his MJ>. from U. of KGdugan in 19£7 and is now serving with the Air Force in Korea. He is the hospital commander at his base. Capt GECHtGE W. SHEER is a general medical officer in Headquarters and Co. A. 7th Medical Battalion. 7th Infantry Division. G. WILLIAM RYAN, an account executive with TVAR, Chicago, has joined Kaiser Broadcasting as local sdes manager at WKBS TV, PUIaddphia. 
WILLIS F. FRY completed his adminis­
OM faces .. . neiv places trative residency at &nmanuel Hospital in 
Rev. PETER HEBERT CSC 10 taught Latin to generations of students from the time of his ordination in 1914 until his retirement from class work in 1958. He lives in Corby Hall on the campus and still pursues with much zest his lifelong hobbies of ornithology and botany. Reminiscing about his early days at ND—he came in 1901 as a high school stu­dent—he recalls that he resided first in old St. Joseph Hall (now Badin) while that venerable institution had outside front steps but no north and south wings. The hall housed an in­dustrial school and the boys who waited qn tables in the dining room in the main building lived there. To those alumni who remember accom­panying Fr. Hebert on long and stim­ulating bird-watching hikes around the Northern Indiana hinterland, it may be said that such activities today are just as stimulating, if not as long. 
JOHN T. FREDERICK, honorary D.Litt. '62, teaches English at the U. of Iowa and lives on a farm near Iowa City. During his long career at ND, which began in 1930 and in­cluded the headship of the depart­ment, he was one of the most popular and gifted teachers on campus, a characteristic that continues, judg­ing by the fact that some of his classes at Iowa draw over 200 stu­dents. He spends his summers on his 1,400-acre, two-lake farm near Clennie, Mich. Both homes permit him to enjoy his hobby of fanning and his love of the outdoors. A re­cent book, published by the N D Press, 
The Darkened Sky: 19th Century American Novelists and Religion, has been termed first-rate by book critic Prof. Richard Sullivan, a long-time associate on the English faculty at ND. 

John T. Frederick 
In his 29 years as a priest Rev. ROLAND SIMONITSCH CSC '36. estimates he has taught religion and theology to over 4,000 students, mostly at ND, but some at Catholic 
U. and many at the U. of Portland in Oregon since his assignment there in 1959. At Portland, Father "Si" be­came head of the Department of Theology and founder and director of a West Coast Sisters' Spirituality Conference, similar to the one at ND. These and several other jobs, includ­ing weekend, parochial work, guest lecturing at Portland State U. and an annual summer CCD institute, continued for some years until a spell of ill health forced him to relin­quish all but his classes and the rec­torship of a small junior-senior residence hall. An avid fisherman and hunter, his ability as a chef extraor­dinaire has spread beyond the CSC community. Each week, for a dozen or more students and faculty mem­bers, especially contributors, he whips up one of his justly famous dinners of venison, duck, rabbit, pheasant; quail, dove, salmon, smelt, steelhead and trout. Looking back while sur­veying the present and future, he says: "The biggest teaching challenge, except for today's students, was the return of the GIs after Worid War 
II. They were the greatest Along with the Vetville gang, I had the privilege of serving as chaplain for one year. The most rewarding years were those spent as student chaplain at ND , but the work with present-day students brings with it much satisfaction and a real challenge for an older priest. 
Father John Wilson CSC Box D Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

Fr. Roland Simonitsch 
Portland, Ore. He now has his master's degree in hospital administration and is the assistant administrator at that hospital. His address is 493S S.W. 78th Ave., Portland, Ore. 97225. 
DENIS D. O'DONOGHUE has been 
awarded the silver wings of an American 
Airlines flight officer after completing 
training at American's flight school at 
Fort Worth, Tex. He and his wife, Anita 
Gail, will make their home in New York 
City where he will be based. GERALD J. 
HEWITT has been appointed an assistant 
professor in Callison College at the U. of 
the Pacific in Stockton, Calif. He had been 
at Whittier College where he was an 
assistant professor of political science. 
JOHN WILLIAM THOMEY has joined 
the Lawyers Co-operative Publishing Co., 
Rodiester, N.Y., as an associate editor. 
As a member of the lawbook publishing 
firm's editorial department, Thomey is 
currently assigned to research and writing for 
American Law Reports, third edition, which 
annotates leading cases on current topics 
from all American jurisdictions. MICHAEL 
L. GARRETT has been appointed district traffic manager for the Indiana Bell Tdephone Co. in South Bend. Most recently he has held the same position for Bdl at CrawfordsviUe, Ind. HENRY L. RITTER, a civil-stiuctiual engineer, has been named an associate of Albert Kahn Associated Architects & Engineers, Inc. in Detroit 
TERRY CLARK, is working as a CJ>.A. with Haskins and Sells in Roselle, 111. He reports he has two boys and his wife is expecting a third SOOIL He reports that DAVE COPPERSMITH and his family Uve in Milwaukee and GEORGE PRICE and his wife live in Atlanta. GENE FAUT and family live in Schaumburg, lU. DICK. TUSHLA and DAVE STEMAN and wives are enjoying the sun and sand in Ventura, CaUf., where they are both participating in a general practice residency. Better watch your language around JOHN OHALA, he has a Ph.D. in linguistics from Lou Akindor U., and is to do research at Berkdey ia 1970. (Actually UCLA for the MLD.) 
Finally, FOSTER JOHNSON wrote me a very nice letter. He is working in Tyler, Tex., and has a jewelry and fine linen shop, as well as a national import company. He also has two children. He writes that DEL SALAZAR dropped by, he is a Captain in the AF, married, and his wife is expecting a baby, and is a really "upright" citizen. Foster said he wrote because I sounded so desperate when I asked for letters in the last column! 
Well, it's true, I need more letters, and the nlitors have threatened me—if I don't fill the c(dumn space they'll print old editions of the 1959-1963 religious bulletin here! 
Looking forward to heating from y'all. 
Tom Hotopp 3121 Colonial Way Apt B Chaniblee, Ga. 30341 
•iS LOIS OF DOCS PAT ZILVITIS and wife, July, now daim two dependents. Nancy was bom in January and Brian is 2. Pat coordinates IBM sales in Cleveland and lives in nearby Fairview Park. 
It is final—TOM HAWKINS was married in June to Mary Beth Ford. Tom just received his M.D. from the U. of Illinois and is now interning at Cook County Hospital. FRAN HARVEY has two boys. The most recent arrived in May. Fran was awarded a Ph.D. in metallurgy in June from the U. of Pennsylvania. 
TOM HICKS received his M.D. from the U. of Michigan. Tom and wife, Carolyn, have moved to upper Michigan for his internship. JIM FOSTER also was given an M.D. at Michigan. Jim was married in May. JOHN OHANLON was married in 1967 to Patricia Erler at ND and worked with IBM until June, 1968, when he joined Francis I. duPont stockbrokers in South Bend. 
After receiving a master's in journalism from Northwestern U. in 1966, JIM BERBERET was married and began teaching at a Chicago suburban high school. Since September, Jim has lived in Freeport, 111., where he now teaches English composition and journalism at Highland Community College. In addition, Jim handles all of the college's public relations functions. 
FRANK VOGEL and CY KENNEDY recently formed Kennedy-Vogel, Inc., a payroll processing firm. Frank and wife, Pam, have two children—David and Christine. Capt. BOB MILLER entered the Army Medical Service Corps via the direct commission program after receiving his 
M.B.A. from Xavier U. in 1966. Bob is serving in Korea. Lt. PHIL DUR was presented with a daughter, Courtney Morris, in May, by his wife, Kathie. DAVE BUSH was granted his M.D. from the U. of Iowa in June and is now interning at Hennepin County Hospital in Minneapolis. 
JIM ZOELLER has completed his Army tour in Vietnam as a platoon leader and is currently working for Pfizer Laboratories, a division of Charles Pfizer & Co., Inc., as a professional sales representative in Winston-Salem, N.C. TONE UHLERICH received his J.D. (Doctor of Laws) at Washburn 
U. in Topeka last year and was admitted to the Kansas Bar in February. Tone and wife, Terry, are living in Dayton, Ohio, where Tone is executive vice-president of Americana Land Corp. They have two daughters, Tina (3) and Tricia (5 mos.). GEORGE DEIHL returned from two years in Pakistan with the Peace Corps and now is a second lieutenant in the Army en route to VieUiam. BILL MALLOY has completed his first year of volunteer work in VISTA and was also recently admitted to the Massachusetts Bar. 
JIM GOETZ was awarded his M.D. at Ohio State Medical School in June and is now serving a straight pediatric internship at University Hospital in Cleveland. JERRY SWIACKI earned his D.O. in June from Chicago College of Osteopathy. Last June, his wife, Karen, gave birth to their second girl, Barbara. They also have Kristen (3'/S) and Jerry (2'/S). Jerry is interning at Botsford Osteopathic Hospital in Detroit. 
ED CAULFIELD has joined the Digital Equipment Corp. in Maynard, Mass., as a sales engineer. Digital is a major manu­facturer of computers and related products. JOHN BRODERICK has joined Nuveen Corp. as an institutional account manager. Nuveen Corp. is a member of the New York, American and Midwest Stock Exchanges. RICHARD CAMPOLUCCl received his M.A. in English from North­western U. and now is an instructor in the Department of English at the U. of Vermont. 
First Lt. ROBERT FOSNOT has been decorated with the Distinguished Flying Cross for aerial achievement in Vietnam. He provided close air support for allied ground forces that had come under mortar attack. 
James P. Hamisch M.D. 
3700 Buford Highway, Apt. 98 
Atlanta, Ga. 30329 
'tSL GOT THE MESSAGE? My strategy has failed miserably! The initial plan was to omit our class column whenever no news was received, but this could go on forever! I purposely omitted the column in the last three issues hoping it would serve as a reminder to some of you delinquent "informers" to write and keep us all abreast of your whereabouts and your goings-on. Come on gang, it's not lack of interest on my part, I can assure you. . . . 
The only people I heard from recently were DAVE COSTANTINO, who having returned from the service, was married, and MIKE SULLIVAN who also left the bachelor ranks. Do we have any bachelors left from our class? Unless RICH CATENACCI was recently married, he is the only one left. Am I right? 
Jan, the troops and I have plans to attend one of the early fall games this year. If anyone is returning for a game this year, plan to meet in the Law Building immediately afterwards to rehash old times. We'll be looking for you, but in case we miss connections, please drop a postcard or note and fill us in on your current news and accomplishments. Deal? 
The Hauler clan has been busy indeed and the summer holds more hectic days ahead. As I may have mentioned earlier in the ALUMNUS, I am attending the 
U. of Chicago nights in hopes of earning a master's degree in business in the not-too-distant future. The program is interesting though taxing, since free time is .something I rarely have. I've registered for two classes this quarter and still have around nine hours remaining before I finish. 
Janet is back in school (Loyola U., Chicago) working toward her master's in philosophy. Even though she just started last January she is threatening to finish before me (she needs only 30 hours work, as compared to my 60). 
Come September all three boys will be in Montessori half day. In case you missed the issue in which I lauded the benefits of Mon­tessori preschool education, I cannot say enough about it All libraries now stock some work of Maria Montessori. It might be worth the time and effort to look it up. It's been invaluable for us. Must sign off now as I'll never make this deadline. I'm begging for news so keep us in mind and let's have a newsy column in the fall. The address is still the same. 
John A. Hauter 
1050 Indiana Ave. Glenwood, III. 60425 
'66 EXAMS AGAIN! 
It's reunion time for the Class of '66. After a little more than three years we are planning a get-together for all '66ers. The 
reunion will be Oct. 4, at the Morris Inn (Mahogany Room) immediately following the ND-Michigan State game. We would like to see as many of you as possible at the reunion. It will be a great chance to renew old acquaintances. 
I had a chance to recall some memoiies 
with JAMIE -nXMIEy. JIM STARSHAK, 
MIKE SMITH and MIKE MALLOY, aD at 
whom have been taking the Illinois bar 
review course with me in preparation for 
the Illinois bar exam. 
Congratulations are in order for DAN 
McGINN iriio is doing an excellent job as 
a relief pitcher for the Montreal Expos. 
Dan was the first pitcher to ever win a 
regidar season game outside the territorial 
limits of the U.S. Mention of this was 
made in Time magazine. Dan also hit the 
first Montreal Expo home run. 
Arthur Andersen A Co. is currently employing a couple of '66ers. JIM DOUGHERTY is working in Houston after completing law school at the U. of Texas. He was also married last Nov. 30, in Corpus Christi. TOM RYAN. BILL FITZGERALD and BRIAN GRAHAM were classmates present at the wedding. Tom is finishing his doctorate in English at Brown U. Bill is in the Army in Alabama after obtaining his master's degree in civil engineering from M.I.T. He is currently working on the designing of an advanced antiballistic missile. Brian is completing his master's in ptditical science at the U. of Texas after serving as youth chairman for Gov. Rockefdier in Texas. 
GEORGE F. KLOPPENBERG is 
employed with Arthur Andersen A Co. in 
New York. George, his wife and two 
children just returned from a year in 
Ireland and London. 
ART FRIGO is presently working at Argonne National Laboratoiy as a mechatucal engineer. He was looking forward to a July 26 wedding at Sacred Heart Church on campus when he wrote. 
Many '66ers continue to serve our coimtry in the armed forces. ROBERT DOWNS is in the Navy and is currently stationed at the naval hospital in Guam. Bob recently ran into classmate PETE HANRATTY in Washington, D.C. Pete is an ensign in the Navy. MATT BOYLE is stationed at Udom Royal Thai AFB in north-central Thailand. Matt is flying an F-4D Phantom and has flown over 100 combat missions. JIM WALSH is in Meridian, Miss., instructing naval aviators in the art of flying jets. Jim was married last September on the base. 
Many other classmates of ours are flying also. TERRY RYAN is flying an F-4S in Vietnam. GEORGE MELNYK is flying the F-8 Crusader and at last report was stationed in San Diego. PAT FARRELL is also on the West Coast flying an F-4S. BOB RYAN is in Vietnam flying helicopters. MATTHEW McHUGH is serving as a brigade assbtant adjutant in Germany. Matt and his lovely wife. JoAnn, had their first child early in the year. 
First Lt. JOHN P. KUMINECZ has received the U.S. Air Force Coimnendation medal at High Wycombe Air Station, England. He was decorated for meritorious service as director of information at Norton AFB. 
GAR ISACCO is in Tuy Hoa, Vietnam, as a materiel officer. Gar is planning a 
Nov. 22 wedding. GEORGE ADAMS served with the S19th Military Intelligence 
Battalion in Saigon. He was married last Aug. 9, and is currently enrolled in the 
master of arts in teaching program at ND. George will graduate in August George ran into DAN BOLZ in Vietnam. Dan is with the 173ni Airborne. 
The saddest part of writing this article is the necessity of rdating to you the deaths 
of our fellow classmates. It is with great sympathy that I must do so for the second month in a row. K. MICHAEL FALVEY died March 10, 1969. My condolences go out to his wife and family. I hope that they can find some consolation in the prayers and thoughts of his ND classmates. 
Richard H. Angelotti 8640 S. 86th Ave. Apt 203 Justice, Ul. 60458 
ttL WANTS RELEASED After checking around I think it best that we declare the Southern California game to be this year's reunion game. Hope to see quite a few of the class there. PETE IPPOLITTO was in Washington checking his status with the Army. Pete is stationed in Italy and is trying to make certain that the Army will release him this winter. He plans to return to New Jersey to practice. TOM WARD is now living in Reston, Va., just down the road from NORM MANDEL, and is working in Washington with the patent and trademark Arm of Browne, Beveridge & DeGrandi. Tom passed on the good news that he and Julie were the proud parents of a new baby boy. I received a letter from PHIL RUDDY and he is actively practicing with his father in Aurora, HI. RAY STARMAN is with Halsey, Stuart & Co. in Chicago. I have had the chance to talk recently to JOHN GOTTLICK and to BOB iCRAUSE. Both are fine and will be at the Michigan State and Southern California games. MAUREEN MURPHY has just returned to Washington after spending a vacation with her mother in Ireland and England. Cookie and I will be at the Army game in New York on Oct. 11, and we hope to see many of you there. Drop me a line if you are going. JAY DOUGHERTY teUs me that MIKE ROACHE visited Monica and Jay in Miami last month as part of Mike's trip to Fort Lauderdale. Jay's new address is 1451 BrickeU Ave., Miami, Fla. 33131. Jay asked for a quick rundown of the whereabouts of the class, but I can't supply that unless I hear from everyone. MAURIE NELSON has been assistant prosecutor for Berrien County since the first of the year. He has been quite busy between that job, his trucking firm and his law practice. He has also been quite active in improving judicial administration in his section of Michigan. JOHN HAUGH spent some time in Mississippi trying a civil rights case. He has changed affiliation and is now with the firm of Pozzi, Wilson & Atchison in Portland. He said that when he and Phyllis were in San Francisco they ran into MARTY CONWAY on Fisherman's Wharf. He was on his way back to Vietnam after some time in the States. Everyone in the area turned out at our house for a party in honor of the recently arrived Anne and NORMAN MANDEL. Norm is in the Falls Church, Va., field office of the Federal Trade Commission and is living right on the golf course in Reston, Va. Old times were recalled when Norm ran onto the course last Saturday and supplied the foursome of Gregory, Murphy, Polking and Ward with some ice-cold beer as we were approaching the seventh green. At this 
writing, Anne and Norm are awaiting the ' arrival of their first child. 
Frank Gregory 
5018 Woodland Way 
Annandale, Va. 22003 
'67L NO MAIL = EASY WB This job gets easier each month. This is not because one becomes accustomed to writing, rather, the material becomes less and hence the columns become shorter. PAT POCHIRO dropped me a line. You remember Pat! He was that tall, good-looking fella who asked all those questions in class—one each year. After leaving ND, Pat promptly passed the Ohio Bar and hooked up with the local legal services office. Last January, Pat was appointed assistant prosecutor for Mahoning County and in February, opened his own office in Youngstown. Clients can find him at 1107 Mahoning Bank Bldg. He is still a devoted bachelor and golf nut. An official-looking notice from the Navy indicates that JACK "SNOOPY" COUCH has transferred to the USS Cowell (DD-547) and his mailing address is: Fleet Post Office, San Francisco, Calif. 96601. Speaking of Jack, wasn't it nice of the astronauts to name their ship in his honor? 
James C. Heinhold 
34 WaU St. 
Norwalk, Conn. 06850 
'6S OF LOVE, PEACE, WAR Congratulations to TIM McGREEVY on his engagement to Teresa Tasler. The wedding is planned for Sept. 6, in Sioux Falls, S.D. Tim is now in Infantry OCS at Fort Benning, Ca. MICHAEL H. FARLEY and EUen McShane of Bogota, NJ., were married last summer in Sacred Heart Church on the ND campus. The wedding took place June 22. Mike and Ellen are now serving their country in the Peace Corps for two years. Their address until December of 1970 will be: Caixa Postal 52, Itapecer, Minas Gerais, Brazil, S.A. Our best wishes go to JOHN STAFFORD and Judy Coidey, both of Pittsburgh, on their engagement A December wedding is planned. John is now teaching science at St Elizabeth's High School in Pittsburg while taking courses at Carnegie Mellon U. Your class secretary has just finished training in artillery at Fort Sill, Okla., and will be leaving for Vietnam JiUy 1. 
Leonard J. Pellecchia 311 Mt Prospect Ave. Newark, NJ. 07109 
'ML DEPLETING THE RANKS Well, the ranks of the single men of the Class of '68 are rapidly being deideted. 
Reliable sources have it that JOHN PUSEY will soon be getting married. If the parties at Madison Manor were any indication, the reception shoidd be quite a show. And by his own hand, TIM 
WOODS has admitted that he too will soon be married. On Aug. 2, be will exchange vows with Janice Marie Fagan of Mishawaka. Tim and Janice will hardly have time for a honeymoon, how­ever, before Tim enters the elite of tlie armed services, the U.S. Navy, in the middle of September. At present, he is working for the firm of Jones, Obenduun, Johnson, Ford & Pankow in South Bend. 
Thou ^ the workload is heavy,-he feds the experience is invaluable. I wonder if you'll feel the same about the Navy, 
lim. 

Congratulations are due Diane and PAT PACELLA on the birth of their daughter, Kimbeily Ann. Pat is enjoying his stay in Oklahoma. SKIP GRIFFIN has finally gotten his wish. He and Mary Ann have bought a home. MoUy WILCZEK informs me that BOB has been transferred to Vietnam. TOM and Carol WARD'S new arrival is due in September. And Sue and JOHN SCRIPP are very happy at the prospect of a second child soon after that I think John secretly wants another Scripp in the Bengals. And Jane just doesn't qualify. At least it's obvious that everybody's been reading the encyclical. 
I am now officially settled in Norfolk, Va., and should be here for the next two years. Anybody with any news about himself or anyone else in the class can reach me at the address below. And if you're in the area, be sure to drop in. Dennis C. Thelen 7816 Lisa Dr., Apt 202 Norfolk, Va. 23518 
tH. THOSE OPEN BARS Your secretary must begin his first column with an apology for the late notices which were sent to you around June 20. You must tmderstand, however, that I did not acquire a Denver address until just a few days before the mailing of the cards. There is a small but elite group of our classmates «dio have distinguished them­sdves by their willingness to travel anywhere in the coimty to attend the wedding of a fellow '69er. It is for this reason that at the weddings of GEORGE BURGETT to Kathy Fiacco, and TIM "PUMA" MC­LAUGHLIN to Sandy Ward, there were very much apparent at the open bars the faces of TOM BONNER, TONY SEIMER, JAMES "STAR" STARSHAK, JOE "ZEP" KENNEDY and JOE "ZEP" FRANTIN. A special highlight at Puma's reception was the solo rendition of "Waltzing Matilda" by HUGH "SPOOK" MUNDY. It was Star who stole the show, however, by giving a diamond to Sue Smith. They will be married at ND this fall following one of the 1969 home games. Congratulations are in order to Nancy and JOHN MACLEOD on the arrival of their firstborn, Kerry Aime Macleod, May 18. John is working in Washington, D.C., and has set up his home at 5904 Kingsford, #C, Springfield, Va. 22150. Also in the D.C. area are Nancy and MERLE WILBERDING and HARRY McDONAGH, but I have not yet acquired their addresses. lU. 61610. RON MARCHIONE is presendy working for the legal aid office in St Joseph, Mich., and is spending a good deal of his time commuting daily between St Joe and Mishawaka. Please drop me a card or a letter to keep me posted of your new addresses and your activities. Hopefully I will be able to compile some sort of class directory in this manner and I will make it available to any of you who request it In dosing, I have been requested to indude a personal notice for Jim Williams: DAN HEBERT: in your hurry to leave South Bend you left your Shell Oil card at Jim's Six Point Shell! Scott Atwell 2475 S. York, #101 Denver, Colo. 80210 

CLUBS 
Chicago scholarship winners are announced by Messrs. (I to r) Fallmtr, Seknster and Archibald, and Mrs. Skoglund. 




N.Y.C. and Chicago ai^ard grants 
Thanks to the two biggest ND clubs, 
an education in the shadow of the 
Golden Dome will become a reality 
for 11 young men this fall. 
In New York, Kevin J. Murphy, who graduated first in his senior class at Archbishop Stepinac High School, White Plains, N.Y., was named the recipient of a $400 scholarship from the New York Alumni Club. 
The eldest of nine children, Kevin plans to enroll in ND's Department of Engineering in the fall. His father, John C. Murphy, White Plains, is an accounting assistant with the Humble Oil Company. Mrs. Murphy is deceased. 
Kevin was selected to receive the scholarship on the basis of academic excellence, leadership, extracurricu­lar involvement and financial need. 
According to Ed Fitzpatrick, chair­man of the New York Club's Scholar­ship Committee, Kevin "impressed the reviewing committee to the point that there was no doubt that he should receive the scholarship." He was chosen by unanimous approval of the conunittee from a field of six finalists. 
In high school, the scholarship winner was' in the honors program and a member of the National Honor Society. He also was active in sev­eral organizations, including the chess, math, bowling and library clubs, and the Aquinas Society. Kevin was awarded a New York State Re­gent's scholarship, but turned it down to attend ND. 
The 17-year-old ND-bound boy achieved an academic average of 9S-F during his four years in high school. 
The club recognized Kevin at its UND Night at the Essex House in New York. Several hundred alumni and friends attended the dinner and heard speakers James Rowley, direc­tor of the U.S. Secret Service; Harvey Bender, ND professor of biology; and Coley O'Brien, quarter­back on the Irish football squad. 
Ten students at the University, in­cluding four freshmen, will be receiving scholarships from the ND Club of Chicago during the 1969-70 academic year. 
The scholarships, which range in value from $S0O-$7S0 a year, were awarded at the club's UND Night dinner. 
The four freshmen who will be attending ND on partial scholarships from the Chicago Club are: Ernest DiBenedetto, who graduated in the upper 20% of his class at Fenwick High School, won eight letters in football.and basketball, captained the basketball team, and was a National Honor Society member; Anthony Dubrick, president of the student council at Marist Hi ^ Schotd and second in a class of 289; William J. Kemp, who ranked 13th in the same class as Dubrick, edited the schocri yearbook, lettered in track and be­longed to the National Honor Society; and John Sortino, a finalist in state science fairs for three years who headed the Glee Club and ^aced 10th in a class of 474 at Brother Rice Hi ^ School, where he also belmiged to the National Honor Society. 
Returning to ND as iq^wiclassmen Chicago scholarship winners are: William R. Litgen, senior; Timothy Bresnahan, Tenence Chinske and Thomas Rke, junims; Vincent J. Connelly and John Sdcula, st^iho­motes. 
In addition to meeting the requirements of schcdastic ability, leadership and character, each xpf&­cant for the club's scholanhips was re­quired to submit a handwritten letter, stating why he wanted to attend ND, his vocational goals, and how he could handle the financial nspamor bility of an educatioa, if he did. re­ceive a scholarship. The Chicago winners were selected from a field of approximately 60 nominees. 
AKRON 
The following is the current news from the Akron, Ohio, Alumni Club. New club officers for the '69-70 year: president, BOB STACK '41; vice-president, JACK GIBBONS '63; secretary, GREG FOUST '63; treasurer, DICK NOVITSKY '52. 
Last year's club treasurer, JIM DETTLING '61, has been promoted by his company, Bache & Co., and will soon assume management of a new out-of-state branch office. We all congratulate Jim and wish him the best of success— but we'll miss him and his St Patrick's Day dancing very much. 
Outgoing President JIM KEEGAN '59 was elected to the Akron club's board of directors. Jim Keegan did an outstanding job of bringing the Akron community, the local alumni and the University all closer together through a suc­cessful program of civic, social and religious activities. Thanks, Jim, for a job well done. 
The past year was also marked as being the first in which the ND alumni and the St Mary's alumnae worked together on nearly all functions. However, discussion regarding the annexation of the St Mary's group is not yet to the serious point We look to the University itself as a test case for this type of coexistence. 
Jack Gibbons '63 
ATLANTA The "ND Alumni Award" sponsored by the ND Club of Atlanta was presented to Lewe Sessions West of Druid Hills High School in recogniu'on of the outstanding academic and personal record he has achieved. Certificates of honor were given to finalists. Award committeemen LOU LONCARIC, JIM EICHELBERGER and ED ABRAMS made the selection after holding personal interviews and reviewing the records of 34 nominees. The project was highlighted by an honors breakfast at the Marriott Inn. Fifteen finalists gave brief presentations on "The Student Today." Also featured at the breakfast were short speeches by BOB BYRNES, PAUL SMITH and Dr. ROBERT HOCHMAN, on "The Role of Alumni Today." It was an enlightening and enjoyable event that hopefully will become an annual affair. JIM SEYMOUR and GEORGE KUNZ, in town for the Coaches All-America game, were special guests at a cook-out held at Jim Eichelberger's house. Next event the annual family picnic with PETE MURRAY in charge. Information will be forthcoming. 
Louis T. Loncaric '58 
BOSTON 
UND Night on June 6, at the Boston Pops, was a tremendous success, thanks to JAY CURLY '53 and his committee. DICK MURPHY '58 was voted Man of the Year because of his dedication to ND and his community. 
DON COTE '52 had the largest group ever at the Annual Golf Outing on June 19 at Wollaston Golf Club. FRANK CONSOLATI '32 received the club trophy for low gross, edging out last year's winner, SAM MERRA '57. 
BILL STEWART '43 won the prize for 
low net. 
Mike OToole '55 
BUFFALO Mosquitoes, warm beer and Buffalo humidity are here again. Summer fun started at Buffalo Raceway, Hamburg, N.Y., on the night of June 30. Again this year, the winner of the ND race will receive a blanket cooler from the club and a generous donation from Buffalo Raceway to our scholarship fund. Golfers will be swinging on July 25 at Beaver Island State Park Course with prizes for all who keep their own scores. Sandwiched in between the fun times will be various community service projects. Plasmapheresis-Vital Organ Banks and Clothes for our Terrace House are but a few of these. Looking ahead to early fall is a planned joint meeting with the alum wives. Judge Mattina, noted local jurist will act as referee . . . really!!! He's our guest speaker and drug addiction, the topic. El Presidente BILL KANE reports golden dome still intact after his three-day senate meeting. Recovery was painless. . . . While Bill was gone we (Buffalo) got our own dome OK'd for Lancaster, N.Y. Where's Houston. . . . Simpson, O. J. is warming up, sprinting through the grass and cornfields. Hopes to get more than 50 yards with the Buffalo Bills. 
John A. Allen '56 
CINCINNATI The club held its annual spring election meeu'ng May 13, at the Wiedemann Brewery. Officers elected for 1969-70 were as follows: President JOHN F. LYNCH '64, Vice-president RICHARD CASTELLINI '54, Treasurer ROBERT HOFACRE '56 and Secretary J. MICHAEL COTTING­HAM '67. 
The 1969 Man of the Year Award went to ROBERT FROLICHER. The award was given at a special dinner-dance on June 27, at the Hyde Park Country Club. 
Coming events include the annual golf outing July 9, at the Hyde Park Country Club, the annual freshman picnic to be held in late August and a raffle of four season tickets to the Cincinnati Bengal games. 
J. Michael Cottingham '67 
COLORADO SPRINGS The ND Club of Colorado Springs held a business meeting on May 21. Club President RAY BUBICK reported on his recent trip to ND to attend the club presidents' senate. Ray briefly discussed such issues as parietal hours, continuing education and the promotion of civic responsibility on the part of the ND clubs. Business topics that were discussed included the establishing of a club award to the area's outstanding high school junior, monthly club luncheons, increased membership participation and the chartering of an airplane for the ND-Air Force football game. Our club recently lost one of its most vocal members as GEORGE GAUTHIER hung up his captain's bars, bade farewell to his friends at the Air Force Academy and completed his tour of active duly in the 
Air Force. George and his family are returning to the New England area to make Mystic, Conn., their new home. 
Michael D. Ciletti '64 
COLUMBUS On May 6, the club had its biggest UND Night ever with over 240 in attendance. Our hats are off to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC whose presence and magnificent speech made for a very fine evening. Thanks also go to co-chairmen JOHN DORRIAN '60 and JOHN GUZZO '62, and emcee Dr. TOM HUGHES '38 for a job well done. ND Man of the Year Award went to past President FRANK BETTENDORF '59 who has been instrumental in rebuilding the club. The new slate of officers was officially introduced at the dinner. They are JOHN GUENIN '62, president DAN IGOE '65, vice-president; JACK MURPHY '61, treasurer; and DON ROTHERMICH '63, secretary. The first event on the calendar of activities is a night at the races at Scioto Downs on August 1. Circulars will be in the mail soon. 
Don Rothermich '63 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY Our calendar of seven events has been completed for the year. All of the occasions were well planned, smoothly run and very enjoyable—but poorly attended. The notable exception was UND Night which was well attended. We have Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC to thank for that The first try at a picnic on Sunday, June 22, brought together 16 families under cloudless skies for a memorable outing. "The Mad Monk" JIM CASSIDY entertained the little troops with a beach ball that dwarfed the crowd. You couldn't beat the BOURRET-burgers and SANNER-com. And plenty of beer! The first ND picnic ever when it didn't run out Three cheers and a toast to those in absentia. 
Nonactive members who indicated an interest in the club during the spring phone-athon were sent follow-up question­naires recently. Only 18 out of 73 have been returned. The interest must run deeper than that. 
Next year's program is currently in an R& D stage. Is there anything that would be of interest to you? 
John McGuire '62 
DEARBORN 
Sunday, June 22, was the date of our annual family picnic. The scene was Leavagood Park in Dearborn, where a good group braved a threatening rainstorm which, fortunately, did not come until the end of the day. Chairman MIKE WILLIAMS '66 did a tremendous job in organizing this event and DON MULLANEY '52 is also to be commended for his handling of the games and the awarding of prizes. A Softball game comprised of ND men and members of their families was enjoyed by one and all. Williams' Wildcats outlasted Devine's Demons to win 7-5. The culminating event of the day was the egg-catching contest JIM O'BRIEN '64 
and wife Sandra won a bottle of "Cold Duck" in recognition of their fine efforts. 
Congratulations are in order for Mike 
Williams '66 and his fiancee Miss 
Geri Flak who will "tie the knot" 
this September 13. 
Tentative plans call for a summer dance 
and possibly a trip to Oakland U. for 
a night under the stars at the Meadow 
Brook Music Festival. 
Tim Devine '65 
DECATUR Decatur's annual golf and football ticket exchange outing convened at Southside Country Club on a beautiful June 17. Inter­laced with the 19th hole, dinner and ticket application commitments, the highlights of the 1968 season were viewed. PAT NOLAN '63 was our chairman, with a big assist from JOE NOONAN. 
Steve Graliker '42 
DENVER The club began its new year of activities with a successful father-son Communion breakfast on May 25. The event began with a private Mass in the chapel at SL Thomas Seminary. A very appropriate homily, "That Special Relationship Between Father and Son," was given by Rev. Giles Webster OFM, a devoted friend of ND for many years. Activities following the Mass included a breakfast at the neighboring Holiday Inn, an exciting magic show performed by the renowned "Shan Chin," the raffling of door prizes representing the best the bookstore has to offer and the showing of the 1968 football film. Arrangements for the event were handled by LARRY D. GRIFFIN 
•63 and PETER A. FISCHER '64. 
The schedule of events for the coming months and the chairmen are as follows: Annual Picnic (July) NICK MULLER '64; New Students Orientation (August) RAY DELUCA '62; Golf Outing (September) DON KLEE '50 and ROBERT ZEIS '54. 
The club, through its president, VINCE DUNCAN '44, recently announced the formation of a recruiting committee. In past years the recruiting function has been handled by the scholarship committee. However, it was felt that there was enough work involved to warrant the separation of the two functions. The chairman of the new committee is THOMAS BENSON '64. 
Peter A. Fischer '64 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY, CONN. New slate of officers elected at the UND Night dinner-dance are: LAWRENCE 
A. MURCHAN '66, president; G. SARS­FIELD FORD '55, vice-president; GEORGE H. BURNS '48, treasurer. 
Plans for the forthcoming year include a family Communion breakfast at the Convent of Sacred Heart in Greenwich in late July; a send-off reception at the General Putnam Inn in Norwalk on August 24, which will be conducted by Jim Gibbons of the Alumni Office; the fall scholarship raffle featuring a trip for two to New Orleans for the Tulane game; maybe a club trip to New York for the Army game with a social alTair in Fairfield County to follow, and other functions through the year, including a science seminar to be arranged by Dr. LLOYD FORRESTAL '52. 
Peter M. Hearden '37 INDIANAPOLIS Over 130 men attended the annual stag outing held June 10, at Moynahan's Shack. BILL MOONEY was chairman of this successful event and he was backed up by an able committee consisting of JOHN O'CONNOR JR., TOM BOWERS, DICK. OWENS, SID BAKER, BILL McGOWAN, BILL SAHM and BOB KANE. 
Special guests at this event were the 1969 graduates and their fathers. Along with swimming, Softball and cards, the film of the 500-Mile Race was the featured entertainment. 
Lawrence A. O'Connor Jr. '65 
MAINE During the summer months the Maine Club becomes a bit more active and we are now planning our annual outing for the latter part of August We are pleased to welcome back to the state LARRY MITCHELL '60 and to welcome TOM JELINEK '68, who will reside in Scar­borough near the race track. Happily we note that PAUL GOSSELIN of Lewiston will be a freshman at ND this fall and from what we hear there are several others going out from our fair state. GENE GEIGER 71 will be returning from the Innsbruck Overseas Expedition and happy to get back on the campus again. Our scholarship fund continues to help, and we have two boys at the present time receiving scholanhip grants. This money was raised through the efforts of the local alumni and the ND band, which comes this way once every three years. 
Geiger Bros, has a new office building right on the side of the road at Exit 13 on the Maine Turnpike. Do come in for a visit 
Ray Geiger '32 
NEW ORLEANS UND Night was May 22, 1969, at the Fontainebleau Motor Hotel. New officers were elected for 1969-70: PAT BOOKER '62, president; LES BOU­DREAUX JR. '62, vice-president; JOE DROLLA JR. '63, secretary; and BOB JOHNSTON '63, treasurer. Old-timers ED SPORL '34, JOE DROLLA SR. '38 and BILL DREUX '33 were treated to an evening of instruction concerning "The Notre Dame Student Today," delivered by teacher. Dr. Milton Burton, and student. Bob Rigney '70. Everyone attending enjoyed a pleasant evening. 
The New Orleans Club is looking forward to a summer and fall full of activities, particularly an August picnic. Preparations are under way to welcome ND alumni and friends for the October 10 football game between ND and Tulane. The game is scheduled for a Saturday night so plans are being made for a pep rally and party on Friday night 
Joe Drolla Jr. '63 
NEW YORK CITY 
SKIP DAVIDSON '64 has taken over as club president and JIM SLATTERY '50 is our new vice-president Newly elected directors include WALTER DONNELLY "29, JIM KELLY '40, GENE MAGUIRE '49, PETE PACE '62, LEO 
SANTINI '40, PAUL SMITH '60 and DEON SUTTON 31. 
Scholarship Committee Chairman ED FITZPATRICK '54 has announced that a $4,000 scholarship has been awarded to Kevin Murphy, the top man in this year's graduating class at Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains. 
A group of ND students affiliated with the Council for the International Lay Apostolate (CILA) is spending the summer living in a Harlem tenement and working with disadvantaged teen-agers. Their activities include organizing recreational activities, tutoring and remedial reading help. STEVE JOHN '69 and Dave DeCoursey 70 outlined the program at a recent meeting of the club board of directors. The board responded with a gesture of support by voting to contribute $500 in club fiinds to help defray expenses. 
BUD MULVEY '51, chairman of the highly successful 1969 golf outing, reports the following partial list of prize winners: Best left-handed golfer. Bud Mulvey; low gross, JACK ADAMS 76; high gross, AL PERRINE '41; low net FRANK SPIEGLE '48; heaviest golfer, BILL CUDDY '52; longest drive, TOM LANTRY '30; oldest alumnus on the course, BILL FALLON '37; closest to the pin, BOB FINK '52; most "greenies," TONY EARLEY '47; oldest father with youngest son, JIM SPELLMAN '41; oldest father with oldest son, FRANK McANANEY, '29; oldest son with the oldest father, FRANK McANANEY JR. '64. 
Coming events: 
Freshman Send-OfT: Aug. 27—Westchester Country Club Aug. 28—Garden City Hotel 
Fall Kickoff—Sept 17 Pre-Army game rally—Oct 10 
Frank Reidy '55 
PHILADELPHIA 
The ND Club of Philadelphia is planning three trips for the 1969 football season. They are: 
ND vs. Army. Oct U. 1969 one- or two-day weekend. ND vs. Tulane, Oct 25, 1969 four-day weekend—includes a riverboat cruise on Mississippi. ND vs. Pitt Nov. 8, 1969 two-day weekend approximate cost: $45. per person 
For information on all above trips contact Jack Henry — 215-MI-2-1161. Back-to-school night will be Sept 4, 1969. The speaker will be James Gibbons. 
Ray Mullen '60 
QUAD CITIES Approximately 80 people attended our UND Night, April 24, which is the most to have attended for many years. Having "Moose" Krause as our speaker, plus a well-organized group of alumni, brought out this large crowd. It was held at the Plantation Club in Moline, III., and Ed Krause's talk was very well received. The question-and-answer session ran on to an unusually late hour with questions ranging all the way from athletic programs to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgii's letter and student disturbances. It was a very successful evening for the club. 
On Sunday. March 16, at Short Hills Country Club in Moline, III., a crowd of almost 100 ND alumni aind friends turned out for the aimual Tri-Cities Altmuii Club St Patrick's Day Dinner-Dance. The dance is sponsored by the ND Wives Club, the president of the club being Joyce Hank (my wife), and the chairlady of the dance being Janet Bracke. Once again we were fortunate in having an unusually large turnout for this function due to the well-organized approach taken by the committee, and to the excellent location chosen for the dance. 
The next activity planned by the Quad-Cities Alumni Club is the family picnic which will be held on Sunday, July 12, at the Indian Bluff Forest Preserve in Moline. This will be followed by the golf outing in late summer. 
BJ. Hank Jr. '51 
iM>CHESTER The club held its spring business meeting April 1, 1969, at which the previous year's activities and committee reports were reviewed. New business consisted of the election of new officers for the 1969-1970 year and the following men were nominated by VINCE DOLLARD, chair­man of the nominating committee: JERRY CURRAN, president; JOHN GLAVIN, vice-president; JOHN RODGERS, treasurer, and SID WILKIN, secretary. Needless to say, all were unanimously elected. We think we have a first in that all the new officers except for the vice-president are from the Class of '56. 
The board of directors for the coming year will be JIM DOYLE, JOHN BURKE, JOHN HEDGES, JOHN KLEE and LEO WESLEY. 
UND Night was April 29, under the able chairmanship of RON ZLOTNIK assisted by his lovely wife Nancy. Our guest speaker, Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC, had everyone's full attention in discussing "The ND Student Today." The interest and awareness by the alumni in the ND student today was certainly proven when it was mentioned that not one word about football was spoken the whole evening. 
John Klee was chosen the ND Man of 

the Year, a veiy worthy recipient of this 
annual honor by ND alumni clubs. 
EUGENE BERGIN's wife, Ginny, of the ND Women's Club, presented to the club a check in the amount of S500 for the scholarship fund. This money repre­sents the proceeds from the annual fruit cake sale held every Christmas season by the ND Women's Club. Believe it or not, 1,400 pounds of fruit cake were unloaded in the city of Rochester last year by our hard-working wives. 
The next event in the club's schedule is the annual summer picnic which is in the planning stages at the present time. 
Sid Wilkin '56 
ROME 
Our vice-president for the past 10 years, JOE DE LEA '47, has departed Rome for New Jersey where he is a medico after taking his degree at U. of Rome. Caesar's Laurels to Joe and wife Gloria who with four splendid children made notable sacrifices to win the day when we all hailed Joe as "Doc." 
Also beaded Stateside is Roman GIAN MARIA SECCO-SUARDO who has received a grant in engineering at ND. 
Visiting Irish: JOE SCHAEFER '59, mother of Stephen Clemente 71, parents of Joe Woodka 71, J.L. TRANT "20 and wife, JIM HERBAUGH 
'56 and wife. Prof. James Carberry 
of chemical engineering, JIM MCCARTHY 
'68, son of FRANK '25, Dr. BERNARD 
MUSCATO '65 and wife, JOSEPH 
COLLIGAN '39 and wife, the very proud 
parents of seven sons, all ND men. 
A block from us a summer school abroad contingent from Louisiana State Tech U. has found our door and are popping in for information and advice. Other schools currently hosted: Stanford, 
U.S. Naval Academy, Manhattan, Wisconsin, Buffalo, Manhattanville. 
Papal Point: PAUL VI '60 holds pubUc audience each Wednesday forenoon. A new system adopted permits all comers to attend the audience without tickets. Just be there. Each Sunday at noon, he speaks and blesses from his window in St Peter's Square. 
HospitaUty: ND Center is open weekdays from noon to nine. All God's people welcome. Largo Brancaccio 82—near rail terminal—Tel: 730.002. 
Vince McAloon '34 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY The San Francisco Bay Area ND Club held its annual meeting of members Friday, June 13, 1969. Bro. FISHER IWASKO CSC '42, principal of Moreau High School, made available the school's facilities for the function. TOM KERNAN '55 performed admirably as event chairman. Special kitchen assistance was provided by JIM ODONOGHUE '58, head chef, and by JOHN GRANT '49. 
Seen elbowing their way to the beer keg during the predinner festivities were ED MADIGAN '55, FRANK GIAMBRONI 
•52, JACK DIORON '52 and GENE DE LAY '41. Other members observed enjoying the festivities were TOM BEHAN '37, JIM RILEY '59 and ANGELO CAPOZZI '56. 
Oldest University graduate in attendance was Bro. JACOB CSC '28, who gave generously of his time to assist the club in preparing for the meeting. 
The social hour and dinner were followed by brief reports from the club officers. JERRY SMITH '61, club secretary, reported on the action which the club had taken to incorporate as a nonprofit organization. JOE CLINE '56, club treasurer, reported that the treasury had successfully vrithstood another year without serious depletion. BILL SHERMAN '49, club president announced that the club officers and board of directors elected to serve for the next year include Bill Sherman '49, president; Frank Giambroni '52, vice-president; JERRY SMITH '61, secretary; Joe Cline '56, treasurer; James O'Dono^ue '58, Tom Keman "55, Ben Oakes '31 and BRIAN CONWAY, board. The meeting was followed by a viewing of the 1968 football highlights, which concluded the planned portion of the meeting. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
ST. LOUIS Glad to be "on board!" We're looking forward to a big year in St Louis and I hope to be able to keep this colimm reasonably current One of our current projects is the revision of our mailing list in preparation to publishing a roster. We are enlisting the aid of several of the "better halves" in this effort, including Carol Szweda, wife 
of RON SZWEDA '60, and my wife, 
Merry Ann, among others, and we hope this 
project may provide the beginnings of a 
women's auxiliary for the club. 
Recent grads ("since my time") are a 
particular problem to locate. To paraphrase 
an old saying, "There's plenty of 'roam' 
between the Dome atid a home!" (Sorry 
about that! I just want to see who reads 
this column.) Anyone with address info 
should contact one of the gals above, or 
call DICK ASH '54, at our new St Louis 
office number, 644-3100. 
Plans are firming up for a downtown St Patrick's Day Parade next spring, which we will cosponsor with the irrepressible Sons of the Easter Rebellion. A permit has been secured, and JOE McGLYNN '55, has held preliminary discussions with Mayor O'Cervantes, who is reportedly enthusiastic (and incidentally, he likes the idea). Riunor has it that the city may purchase the original "blarney stone" for the occasion, even in the face of some critics who are crying "superfluous." Insurance executives are insisting, however, that it be placed as far from the river front as possible. 
We're looking forward to our annual golf outing and sports banquet More about these later. 
A final word concerning the exasperation involved in obtaining football tickets for our fall trip: Perhaps a massive sit-in and occupation of the athletic offices is what it will take to demonstrate the plight of the forgotten alumni clubs across the nation. "Viva la revolution!?" 
Robert J. Hellrung '63 
TERRE HAUTE 
MIKE KEARNS, past president and secretary of the ND Club of Terre Haute, presented the club's "Schultean" award to the outstanding senior boy of Schulte Catholic Hi ^ School tliis past June. Robert Finn McDavid received the award .. . it was based on citizenship, scholarship and sportsmanship. McDavid's father was a '49 graduate of ND. 
At the monthly June meeting the club was honored with the attendance of Rev. "TIM" MURTAUGH . . . Fr. Tim has just returned from a six-year stay in Africa where he is head of a Franciscan missionary unit He told the club about his work and life in the "bush," and about the television program in Zambia. Fr. "Tim" attended ND for three summer terms, '60, '61 and '62. 
The club is hoping Fr. "Tim" will come to our July meeting which will be for members aixl the families. 
Jim Boyer '49 
TULSA On Sunday, June 1, 1969, President FARRIS SAFFA gathered together the alumni and students now attending ND and the students' parents. A special Mass was said at the Cascia Hall Preparatory School, St Rita Chapel. After Mass a champagne bnmch was attended by the aliunni, students and their parents at the Oaks Country Club. A very gala time was enjoyed by alL This champagne brunch was the last function for the ND Club of Tulsa until September when we will have our annual pep rally followed by ND football hi^iligiits and selected speaker. 
Ray H. Siegfried, II '65 
GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
Dr. Anderson obstrvts 



Of rats and men 
Does the old rolling-pin technique still exist in your household? Do you find yourself swatting the kids when they get in your way? Does your boss still pound fists when the work is unfinished? Perhaps you should con­tact Dr. D. Chris Anderson, an as­sociate professor of psychology at Notre Dame. You might be just the right subject for an experiment which he and his students have been work­ing on since 1966. 
Their project, attempting to show the relationship between pain or frus­tration and aggression, initially began as an experiment to observe the workings of painful stimuli. It has since developed into an investiga­tion of the why and when of aggres­sive behavior. 
The subjects used for the psychol­ogist's experiments are not human beings, but rats, which, according to Dr. Anderson, from strictly a scien­tific point of view are very similar to man, except for the cortex of the brain and the absence of vocal cords. 
"The rat performs in problem-
solving situations much like a child 
below the age of six," Dr. Anderson 
stated. 

One way in which aggressive be­havior is observed by the researchers is to place two rats in a confined chamber with a grid floor. The ob­servation wall is made of plexi-glass, while the remaining three are of stainless-steel construction. When a painful stimulus, such as a foot shock, is delivered, attack invariably occurs and often persists after termination of the stimulus. 
According to Dr. Anderson, many theories exist as to why organisms are aggressive. One of these theories holds that aggression is the learned response to frustration or other pain­ful stimuli. Another says that aggres­sion is innate and springs reflexive­ly to the surface when pain is in­jected. But whatever theory is true, psychologists have discovered that there is hardly any organism that doesn't respond to pain by fighting. 
a eonpU of smhjtets. 
Throughout the experiment the researchers have found that aggres­sion is very persistent and hard to modify. "And sometimes measures taken to change or control aggres­sion," Andersen adds, "may have bad side effects which are suppres­sive in nature. For instance, massive punishment may be teaching an or­ganism helplesniess; or if an organism is taught that pain is something it should not re^ond to, then the ani­mal or person may give up with the attitude that it is not worth it to fi^" 

But what society wants to know ri^t now — now ^dien violence is a rampant disease in our country and around the world — is how to cmtrol aggressi(». Maybe it is impossible to contnd. This is idiat Chris Ander-. son, Ralph Payne, Joe Meicurio '69 and Tim Gohmann '69 are trying to find out "Nothing comes about sud­denly," Dr. Andmon remariced. "Psy­chology is less than 100 years old and there is still a great deal of basic re­search that needs to be done." 
BIOLOGY 
Biology graduate students frequently find their way into administration. Witness: Bro. GEORGE PAHL '53 has moved from professor and chairman of the department of biology to associate dean of graduate studies to president of St. Mary's College, Winona, Minn.; AARON SEAMSTER, Ph.D.'49 is now vice-president, Del Mar College in Corpus Christi, Tex. 
EVELYN CRUMP "66 is teaching in the department of biology at Carthage College in Kenosha, Wis. Sr. MONICA ASMAN '66 is currently chairman, department of biology. Mount Alvemo College, Redwood City, Calif. Dr. M. AKHTARRUZAMAN '67 has survived the political and social turmoil in East Pakistan. He is now senior lecturer in botany at the U. of Dacca but will soon be moving to the U. of Rajshahi, East Pakistan, as reader in botany. Dr. T. S. DHILLON, postdoctoral research associate 1964-1965, is on sabbatical leave at Johns Hopkins U. His permanent position is in the department of botany, U. of Hong Kong. 
Your correspondent leaves tomorrow for three months in Bangkok. I will be pleased to find on my return news from all graduates of the department of biology. Ralph E. Thorson Dept of Biology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
CHEMISTRY Dr. GERHARD BINSCH is lecturing in Europe this summer. Dr. DANIEL PASTO was promoted to full professor in May. Dr. JOHN CLARK recently resigned his faculty position to accept a research appointment in biochemistry at Miles Laboratories, Elkhart. 
Bro. RAYMOND FLECK CSC '54, who completed a 12-year term as president of SL Edward's University, Austin, Tex., in June, has accepted a NSF faculty fellowship in the department of environmental toxicology at the U. of California at Davis. He will do analytical research on the effects of herbicides, pesticides, etc. on plants, soil and water, and study in the area of international agricultural develop­ment in preparation for an overseas assignment in the technical assistance program. 
At the national meeting of the Society for Applied Spectroscopy in Chicago last year, Sr. MARY MARINA KENNELLY BVM '59 received the Society award for the most effective teaching of infrared spectroscopy at the undergraduate level, at Mundelein College. Sr. Marina is to receive the Carmelite habit July 16. Her address is Carmelite Monastery, Silver Lake Rd., R.R. No. 5, Traverse City, Micb. 49684. 
Sr. M. ANTOINE BROZOVIC, OSU, M.S.'59 is teaching at Sacred Heart Academy in East Cleveland. JERRY MARTIN '64 is at General Electric's Vallecitos Nuclear Center, Pleasanton, Calif. The Martins adopted a daughter, Lisa Marie, June 23. FRANK OSHHA '58 is manager of the Vibrathane research and development division of Uniroyal in Nau^tnk, Conn. MYRON RJEESE '67 is teaching at McKendree College, Lebanon, 
111. AL RUTKOWSKI '57 is a research associate at Esso Research and Engineering, Linden, NJ. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
Dept. of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 ENGLISH Ten students officially joined the ranks of graduate alumni at the June commencement Doctoral recipients were ROBERT EMMETT FINNEGAN, JAMES KEVIN FLANAGAN, ERNEST LEONARD FONTANA, JOHN A. LOPACH, Bio. SYLVESTER MINER, GEORGE EMILE MITCHELL, HUGH D. RANK and Rev. ZACHARIAS P. THUNDYIL. Receiving their master's degrees were: Mrs. MARGARET MAKIELSKI and Mrs. EMMA JANE ROBINETT. We extend hearty congratulations and a warm welcome to our new colleagues. 
BRO. SYLVESTER MINER Ph.D. '69 will travel to the British Isles this summer for a year's research on Victorian literature combined with general,sight-seeing and vacationing. Although he will spend most of his time in London, Dublin and Glasgow, he will make additional trips to the continent. Bro. Sylvester now teaches at Kings College, U. of Western Ontario. 
Sr. MARJORIE ANNE NICKEL, M.A. '67, formerly Sr. Bernard Mary, has already spent one summer in England and hopes for another soon. With the Foreign Study League, she and a group of her students took part in an English drama program and saw a great deal of England as well. Sr. Marjorie teaches at Sacred Heart High School in Kingston, Mass. 
Edward Vasta 
Dept. of English 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
HISTORY RALPH WEBER, former registrar and director of admissions at Marquette, will be acting chairman of the histoiy department there this summer. He recently received a citation from the university for excellence in teaching. He will be promoted to full professor next year. Congratulations! RAMON ABARCA has a semester's leave of absence from Canisius College. He recently spent several weeks in South Bend doing research and writing. He intends to do further work in France this summer. GEORGE BAEHR, who has been at Fairfield College in Fairfield, Conn., for some years, recently defended his doctoral dissertation and will receive a Ph.D. in August JAMES SEFCIK will go to Gannon College in Erie, Pa., next year. JOHN MARSZALEK has been at Cannon for the past two or three years. Several recent ND graduate history alumni are located in Ohio. ALFRED BANNAN is at the U. of Dayton, Rev. JAMES PLOUGH at the Pontifical College Josephinum in Worthington, LESLIE DOMONKOS at Youngstown State U. and PAUL SIMON is department head atXavier U. in Cincinnati. RICHARD MEISTER is leaving Xavier to accept an appointment at the U. of Michigan, Flint College. MICHAEL LYBARGER is associate professor at Edgewood College of the Sacred Heart in Madison, Wis. Last year Michael was a Democratic candidate for the state assembly but repudiated the presidential candidacy of Hubert Humphrey and so was disowned in return by the state Democratic party, the AFI^ CIO, and sundiy influential elements. In Madison, Michael, one should nm as an anarchist, not a Democrat THOMAS PLASTINO and KENNETH WOLF will go to Murray State College in 
Kentucky next year. JOHN WACK is now the department head at Wheeling College in WheeUng, W. Va., and Sr. VERONA KESSLER OSB has attained the same emi­nence at Mt Maiy College in Yankton, S.D. 
ALBERT O'BRIEN has been at San Diego State College for some years. A fellow Califomian, TIMOTHY O'KEEFE, at last report was planning to take a leave of absence from Santa Clara to join the Peace Corps. Tim was recently married. 
Bernard Norling 
Dept of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING With the 1969 class our alumni have increased by eight Ph.D.'s and five master's. While a few escaped without telling us of their future plans or addresses, we can report on the following: PAUL BOYD Ph.D. '69 is teaching in the Virginia Christian Academy, 3028 N. Anderson St, Woodbridge, Va. The Academy is a private school founded and presently directed by Paul. ROBERT GILMORE Ph.D. '69 is presently stationed at Fort Monmouth, N J., as a first lieutenant Bob has taken a job as assistant director of research and develop­ment at Harrison radiator division. General Motors, Lockport N.Y. As reported in a recent issue, NIHAD HUSSAIN Ph.D. '69 is in the mechanical engineering department San Diego State College, San Diego, Calif. WALTER SCHIMMEL Ph.D. '69 has taken a position on the technical research staff, Sandia Corp. His address is: S28-D Espanola, S.E., Albuquerque, N.M. 87108. JOSEPH WEAVER Ph.D. '69 has not settled down yet—looks forward to employ­ment somewhere between New York and California. Joe's son was a year old in May. KEVIN YELMGREN Ph.D. '69 is a research engineer in the hypersonic research laboratoiy, Wright-Patterson AFB. Kevin's address is 223 Orville St, Apt 24, Fairbom, Ohio. JOHN BOLIVAR M.S. '69, is entering the Air Force. JOHN GASSMANN 
M.S. '69 stayed ahead of the draft board and is now a civilian employe of the Navy at Norfolk, Va. WILLIAM RIEBLING M.S. '69 is a project engineer with Bums and Roe, Inc., 1700 Kinderkamack Rd., Oradell, NJ. 
L.R. SCHERPEREEL M.S. '69 is a core design engineer with Westin^ouse Nuclear Energy Systems. OWEN M. GRIFFIN Ph.D. '69 is a research engineer in the acoustics division of the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C. 20390. His address is: 1207 Palmer Rd., Apartment 9, Oxon Hill, Md. 20022. We have no definite line on THEODORE SARPHIE Ph.D. '69 or HON-SUN LI 
M.S. '69. A newspaper clipping informs us that FRANK JEGLIC Ph.D. '65 has been named section manager of process design for the naval nuclear components division of the Babcock and Wilcox Co., Alliance, Ohio 44601. Frank joined the company in January, 1966, as a research specialist 
James Houghton Dept of Mechanical Engineering Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 
rHYSICS 
Our official head count of physics Ph.D. alumni is now 145, an increase of six over the figure given in the column for September, 1968. The six new members. 
as listed in the June, 1969, Commencement Exercises BulleUn, are GEORGE A. BISSINGER, June I, '69 (nuclear physics); WILLIAM D. CALLENDER, Feb. 1, '69 (nuclear physics); JAMES M. HEVEZI, Feb. 1, '69 (nuclear physics); JOHN M. MARRAFFINO, June 1, '69 (elementary particle physics); PAUL QUIN, June 1, '69 (nuclear physics); JOSEPH J. SAPYTA, Feb. I, '69 (nuclear spectroscopy). 
According to The Physics Teacher, 
April, 1969, ROBERT L. (DUKE) SELLS '53 (theoretical physics) was recently awarded a "Distinguished Service Citation" by the American Association of Physics Teachers for his many outstanding contributions to the teaching of physics. In a previous column (see column for May, 1969), I included a brief account of Duke's activities and accomplishments. However, I failed to mention there another important honor bestowed on Duke, namely that he was also a recipient of ND's "Centennial of Science Award for Distinction in Science and Education." 
As a temporary (and hopefully not unwelcome) departure from the major purpose of this column, namely bringing you up to date on the present whereabouts and activities of our Ph.D. alumm', the remainder of this column will be devoted to news about the physics department. 
As announced at the Annual President's Dinner, held May 13, 1969, new promotions in rank include Dr. JOHN A. POIRIER '54 from associate to full professor, and Drs. James T. Cushing and Eugene R. Marshaiek from assistant to associate professor. Dr. Poirier, along with Dr. Jerome Helland and Dr. Oscar Sander, is busily engaged in assembling spark chambers and associated electronic equipment for experimental elementary particle physics studies. They've even acquired a trailer, parked adjacent to Nieuwiand Science Hall, for transporting their equipment between ND and Argonne National Lab (and eventually also the new accelerator lab at Batavia, III.). Dr. Jim Cushing is taking a year's leave-of-absence this next year to teach at Hampton Institute, Va., and help them upgrade their programs in physics. 
New appointments to the teaching faculty of the department for next September are Dr. Howard A. Blackstead, Ph.D.-Rice, postdoctoral at Illinois, experimental solid state physics, rank of assistant professor; Dr. Hyung J. Lee, Ph.D.-Brown, postdoctorals at Brown and at Brookhaven National Lab, solid state theory, rank of assistant professor; Dr. James D. Patterson, solid state theory, on leave-of-absence for one year from South Dakota School of Mines and Technology, visiting associate professor; Dr. Franklin Cheung, Ph.D.­Maryland, postdoctoral at Stony Brook, elementary particle theory, rank of assistant professor. In addition, we will have two new postdoctorals in the department, one in elementary particle physics and one in solid state physics. Looks like solid state physics will really be rolling in September. 
The editor says that's all for this time. 
R.L. Anthony Dept. of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY 
Some of the department's more memorable 
deeds have arisen from its participation in 
the affairs of the Ohio Valley Sociological 
Society, the regional affiliate of the 
American Sociological Association. Two 
years ago, when the OVSS held its annual 
meeting on the ND campus, it was 
commonly remarked afterwards that the 
meeting had been the best in the history of 
the organization. The 1969 meeting, 
originally scheduled for Chicago but shifted 
to Indianapolis, was supraregional in 
character, a joint session of the Ohio 
Valley and Midwest Sociological Societies. 
ND's large contingent supplied several of 
the meeting's key figures. Dr. Rytina 
presented a paper on "The Cognitive Basis 

Fali Class Reuniomm 
of Marxist Sociology," Dr. l aitmma chaired a special session on "Minority Group Confrontatiotis," and Dr. Kurtz helped make all tins posable t^ hk service on the all-important program committee. Norb WHey, and old friend of the department chaired a session on "Con­frontation: Student Protest Movements." Last year Norb moved £rom Wayne State to the U. of IIlincHS. In addition, a paper on Negro voluntary assodatioiis written by Mario Renzi, one of our third-year graduate students, received a coveted honorable mention in the intense competition among gtad student papers submitted to the OVSS during 196g-19«». 
But the climactic event of the three-day conference was Dr. D'Antonio's presidential farewell address to an audience of repre­sentatives from both societies. Entillol "Academic Man: Scholar or Activist," the paper was a provocative rationale and call-to-arms for sociologists to shed their traditional detached, ivory-tower approach to society and enter the lists to affect social policy and reform. The audience and the trio of distinguished discussants—Amitai Etzioni (Columbia), Howard J. Ehrlich (Iowa) and Robert Ross (a Chicago sociology graduate student now active in the New University Conference)—accorded the paper an entliusiastic reception. 
JIM DAVIDSON'S PhX». '69 gala, celebrating the conferral of his doctorate, provided a surprise star attraction in the person of Daniel Patrick Moynihaii. On the eve of his ND commencement address, Moynihan, while being escorted baa the airport to the Morris Iim by Dr. D'Antonio, graciously accepted Professor D'Antonio's invitation to drop in on the Davidson party for an informal chat with the students and faculty fortimate enou^ to be present The stimulating colloquy with the always articulate Moynihan lasted nearly two hours. 
Robert H. Vasoli DepL of Sociology and Anthropology Notre Dame, Ind. 465S6 
Fall  class  reunions  immediately  following  the  Southern  California  (Oct.  18) games  have  been  planned  
Northwestern  (Sept.  20),  the  Purdue  (Sept.  27),  the  by ND  alumni.  At  press  time,  the following  gatherings  
Michigan  State  (Oct. 4), the Army  (Oct. 11), and  the  were  scheduled:  
Class  of  1928  Class  of  1955  
Southern  Cal  To be  announced  Southern  Cal  To be  announced  
Purdue  Joe Dorah's,  Lafayette  Class  of  1956  
Southern  Cal.  . To be  announced  
Class  of  1929  
Southern  Cal  221 Engineering  Bldg.  Class of  1957  
Michigan  State  To be  announced  
Class  of  1931  
Michigan  State  To be  annotmced  Class of  1959  
Northwestern  To  be  announced  
Class  of  1933  
Army  New  York  City  Class of  1966  
To  be  announced  Michigan  State  Mahogany  Room,  Morris  Inn  

Class of 1939 Class of 1966 (Law) Michigan State To be announced Southern Cal To be announced 
ON RECORD 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Barbara J. Ossenfort to JEROME JOHN MURPHY '64. Miss Suzette Chalifouix to FRANCIS EDWARD BUDARHZ '65. Miss Judith Parlow to DAVID D. DON­OVAN '65. Miss Konyn F. Heinze to MICHAEL JOHN McLANE '65. Miss Mary Anne De Wilde to MICHAEL ANDREW WALTER M.S.'65. Miss Suzanne Scanlan to MICHAEL ROBERT EIBEN '66. Miss Gail Garvey to Army Lt. CHARLES STEPHEN SCHOTT '68. Miss Charlotte Govatsos to VINCENT TRUBIANI '68. Miss Janice M. Fagan to TIMOTHY WILLIAM WOODS '68. Miss Diane M. Romak to JOHN L. COATH '69. Miss Lucy Sullivan to THOMAS ELMER KROBLIN '69. Miss Patricia Donlon SMC'69 to JOHN STEPHEN LEONARDO '69. Miss Mary Lou Thomas to JOHN B. STOLTZFUS '69. Miss Cynthia Eardley to WILLIAM S. WADE JR. '69. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Jean Marie Carini to KENNETH F. DONADIO '56, April 26. Miss Judith L. Harris to BERNARD ANDREW CHASE '57, March 29. Miss Jacqueline A. Dunn to JOHN T. GOLDRICK. '62, May 17. Miss Linda Sue Pollard to WALTER E. KEARNS '64, May 24. Miss Patricia Pierlott to ROBERT C. FINDLAY '64L, June 7. Miss Vickie A. Vlahantonis to JOHN J. HANNIGAN JR. '66, June 2. Miss Carole Novomy to WILLIAM HINIKER '66, Feb. 15. Miss Patricia A. Halasi to ANTHONY L. BERARDI II '67, May 24. Miss Matyanne Keams SMC '69 to JOSEPH A. CHRISTENSON '67, June 3. Miss Patricia Ann Sweeney to EDWARD THOMAS O'NEILL JR. '67, May 10. Miss Jacqueline Grenert to FRANK P. CARR '69, June 2. Miss Nancy Lynn Garvey to JAMES PATRICK SEYMOUR '69, May 24. Miss Sandra M. Ward to TIMOTHY PAUL MCLAUGHLIN '69, May 31. 
HRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES A. BURKHART '62, a son, Robert Christian, April 20. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD J. TREIJILLO '62, a daughter, Celinda, Oct 7. Mr. and Mrs. PETER R. KESLING '66, a daughter, Molly Marie, April 25. Mr. and Mrs. ALLEN D. BARNARD '68, a son, Aaron John, May 27. 
ADornoN 
Mr. and Mis. LAWRENCE X. TARPEY SR. '53, a dau^ter, Trudy Claire, June 6. 
SYMPATHY JOSEPH T. RILEY '18 on the death of his wife, March 29. JOHN E. GRUNING '27 on the death of his son, Frank J. Gruning, May I. BERNARD K. CRAWFORD '40 on the death of his mother, Maiy Crawford, July 3. JOHN H. CRAHAN '44 on the death of his mother, March 27. RONALD J. CARTER '48 on the death of his parents, March 16. WILLIAM BROCKHOFF '49 on the death of his father, RJ. Brockhoif, June. WILLIAM W. BURKE '49 on the death of his father, Joseph L. Burke. LOUIS F. DiGIOVANNI '49 on the death of his mother, April 4. GEORGE H. MCCARTHY JR. '49 on the death of his mother, March 30. WILLIAM J. ZUPANCIC '49 on the death of his wife, Florence, March 30. JAMES R. BATES '51 on the death of his father, Willbert Bates, Oct 1. THOMAS F. McGEE '51 on the death of his father, Frank McGee, March 27. JEROME P. '53, JOSEPH S. '56, PAUL 
C. '60 and D. MICHAEL O'CONNOR '62 on the death of their father, April 6. ROBERT M. WRIGHT '54 on the death of his father, Warren W. Wri^ t THOMAS S. QUINN '56 on the death of his father, John, January 7. JAMES J. RILEY '56 on the death of his mother, March 29. ROBERT W. HOLLAND '57 on the death of his father. Dr. JJ. Holland, March 24. 
DONALD E. '58 and RICHARD J. FLOCK '68 on the death of their father, BERNARD J. '25. 
TIMOTHY J. '58 and EDWARD A. McGEE '59 on the death of their father, ARTHUR J. '31. 
KENNETH J. CAVANAUGH '59 on the death of his father, Kenneth Cavanau^, June. 
ALBERT E. '62 and PHILIP HIGHDUCHECK '64 on the death of their father, A.E. Highducheck Sr., Oct 3. 
PHILIP STORK '67 on the death of his brother, ROBERT '64. 
DEATHS Rev. WILLIAM C. O'BRIEN '06. FRANK SHAUGHNESSY '06, May 16. 
He was an all-around athlete at ND, football coach and baseball executive who originated the playoff system that bears his name. He also was president of baseball's International - League bom 1936 imtil his retirement in 1960. He is survived by five sons, a dau^ter and 13 grandchildren. 
FRANK J. McHUGH 'II, Jan. 31. His widow, of 2810 W. Hayes St, Seattle 98199, survives. 
W. POYNTELLE DOWNING '14, May 10. He was actively engaged in Illinois Democratic party politics and during the 1930's and 1940's served in two state appointive posts. He is survived by his widow, of 2430 N. Water St, Decatur, 111., two daughters, a son, WILLIAM T. '57, and five grandchildren. 
EDWARD W. McGOUGH '14, June 12. He is survived by his sister, Mrs. William Louise Higgins, of Lincoln, 111. 
MARCH FORTH WELLS '15, May 19. 
He is survived by his family at 1901 E. 
Taylor St, Bloomington, 111. 61701. 
Rev. WALTER A. REMMES '16, Dec. 
3, 1966. 
JAMES T. McMAHON SR. '17, June 7. He is survived by his son, James T. McMahon Jr., at 3010 W. Central Ave., Toledo, Ohio 43606. 
HENRY C. GRABNER 70, Jan. 17. His widow survives at 314 N. Market, Winamac, Ind. 46996. 
PAUL J. HAGAN "20, 1968. His widow resides in Glendive, Mont 59330, Box 238. 
WILLIAM F. NEARY Ph.BC. '21. He is survived by his family at 109 Forest Land, Tyron, N.C. 28782. 
C. JOSEPH FOLEY 75, May 2. He is survived by his widow, 20 N. Utica St, Waukegan, 111. 60085, and seven children, includmg C. JOSEPH JR. '65. 
THOMAS L. HIGGINS 75. He is survived by his wife at 1623 N. Illinois, South Bend, Ind. 46628. 
WILLIAM C. HURLEY Ph.BC. 75, Jime 9. An insurance man for 40 years, he suffered a fatal heart attack while golfing He earned many honors in the insurance field and in civic activities. Surviving are his widow, 1711 Gratiot, Saginaw, Mich. 48602, and his parents. 
EDWARD J. MALAY 75. He is survived by his family at 812 Spear St., Logansport, Ind. 46947. 
RICHARD W. TOBIN 75, April 24. He is survived by his widow, Mildred, of 2569 Woodstock, Columbus, Ohio 43221, two daughters, Mrs. Sheila Walker and Mrs. Kathiyn Corbett, and two sons, Richard and Thomas. 
JAMES M. McQUAlN 76, May 25. His widow survives at 1309V6 Market St, Parkersburg, W.Va. 
HAROLD C. NEU 76, of a heart attack, ^ri l 20. He is survived by his £ain0y at Neo & Co., 406 Central Natl. BMg., Des Moines, Iowa 50309. 
TOM COLLINS 78. April 5. He is survived by his widow, Anna, 168 New Boston Rd., Fall River, Mass. 02720. Tom has been retired for ei{^t years as instructor at Southeastern Mass. Technological Inst 
JAMES J. HARTLEY 78, Feb. 26. He is survived by his widow at 77 W. Palisades Blvd., Palisades Park, NJ. 07650. 
LEO G. PAUL "28, July 13, 1967. WILLIAM F. CRAIG '29, March 30. He is survived by his widow at ISOS Granville, Miuicie, Ind. 47303 and three sons, William F. Jr., MICHAEL and ROB­ERT. The two younger boys are presently attending ND. CARL J. DeBAGGIO -29, Jan. 21. He is survived by his widow at P.O. Box 268, Eldora, Iowa 50627. MICHAEL P. HAMMILL 79, AprU 10. Death came from auto accident He is survived by two brothers, George and James, and two sisters, Mrs. Margaret Brennan and Miss Mary Jane Hammill. FLORIS D. LEACH Ph.BC. '29, June 29, 1968. He is survived by his widow at 15 Bossis Dr., Charleston,-S.C. 29407. ROBERT K. POLLEY 79, Dec. 30, 1968. Surviving is liis widow at 2536 W. 102nd Place, Chicago 60642. EUGENE W. RHEAUME 79, Aug. 7, 1967. He is survived by his family at 24127 Rockford, Dearborn, Mich. 48124. WILLARD F. WAGNER 79, May 23. He is survived by his widow at 1437 E. McKinley Ave., South Bend, a brother-in­law and sister-in-law. W.E. LEE PURCELL '30, Dec. 29, 1968. His family survives in Orange, Va. MARTIN J. REIDY Ph.BC. '30, Jan. 2. Surviving is his daughter. Miss Mary Reidy, 124 E. Jasper, Tulsa, Okla. 74106. ALEXANDER J. ABROHAM Ph.BC. '31, March 15. He is survived by his widow at 401 Parkovash, South Bend 46617, a daughter, two grandchildren, his mother and three sisters. ROBERT M. MARSHALL '31, June, of leidcemia. Surviving are his widow, 1412 
S. Meridian St, Tallahassee, Fla., seven children and six grandchildren. 
ARTHUR J. McGEE '31, Jan. 24. He is survived by his widow, Elizabeth, at 8 Thomas Jefferson Place, Middletown, N.Y. 10940, two sons, TIMOTHY J. '58 and EDWARD A. '59, and a daughter. Sister M. Sean of the College of New Rochelle. 
DANIEL F. CASSIDY '32, May 7. Surviving are his widow, four daughters and a son. 
FRANCIS W. BROWN '33, May 19, 1966. He is survived by his family at 2545 Locust, Denver 80207. 
PAUL M. CALLAGHAN Ph.BC. '33, June 28. His widow at 445 W. Main St, Bellevue, Ohio 44811, and four sons survive. Two of his sons, GREGORY and MICHAEL, are ND graduates. 
WILLIAM F. WITTENBURG '33, April 3. He retired in June, 1966, from the State of Michigan as Director of Coun^ Audits and Local Government He is survived by his wife at P.O. Box 90 Beaver Island, St James, Mich. 49782. 
ELMER M. CRANE '34. 
EUGENE J. HOLLAND '34. 
FREDERICK R. SULLIVAN '34. 
ANDREW L. HELLMUTH '36, May 28, of a heart attack. He was president of Link-Hellmuth, Inc., a real estate and insurance firm. Surviving are his wife, three sons, including ANDREW P. '68, four daughters, a sister and a brother, PAUL F. '40. His family resides at 609 Westchester Park Dr., Springfield, Ohio 45504. 
HARRY A. BALDWIN '37, April 3. He is survived by three sons and one daut^ter. The family resides at 1250 N. Lathrop Ave., River Forest, III. 
THOMAS G. BARRY '39, Feb. He is 
survived by his widow at 8525 W. 59th 
Ave., Arvada, Colo. 
WALTER R. COTTON '39, Feb. 7. 
He died of cancer. Surviving is his widow 
at 5436 Walton St, Long Beach, Calif. 
90815. 

RICHARD P. KUEHN '39. He is survived by his family at 811 S. Main St., Mishawaka, Ind. 46544. 
ROBERT J. LANGER '39, Dec. 24. He is survived by his family at 88 Karland Dr. N.W. AUanta. 
J. HUGH SMITH "39, Dec. 24. He is survived by his family at 86 Kings Gate, North Rochester, N.Y. 14617. 
CHESTER W. WOODKA '39, June. Surviving are his widow at 1604 Hilltop Dr., South Bend, and two children. 
PAUL E. NEVILLE, '42, June 23. Executive editor of the Buffalo Evening News, he died after suffering a stroke. His widow and five children survive. The former sports editor of the South Bend Tribune, Neville was a director of the Associated Press Managing Editors Association, American Society of News­paper Editors and the New York State Society of Newspaper Editors. A scholar­ship fund has been established in Paul's name. Contributions may be sent to the Paul Neville Scholarship Fund. Buffalo Eve­ning News, Buffalo, N.Y. 
ROLAND L. BELLADONNA SR. '44, March 24, of a heart attack. 
CHRISTOPHER W. COCHRANE '46, April 12. Chris died of a heart attack. He is survived by his widow, Marilyn, at 1555 Highland Dr., Elm Grove, Wise. 53122. 
PAUL H. CEDERWALL '47, April 18. He is survived by his widow and four children Paul, Eileen, Maiy and Cathy. The family will continue to reside at 5082 Corboda Circle, La Pahna, Calif. 90620. 
HUGH J. LANE '49, Dec. 1, 1968. He is survived by his mother, Mrs. Hugh G. Lane, 7 Hookton Ave., Uniontown, Pa. 15401. 
PATRICK E. O'NEIL '50, April 28. He is survived by his wife, Catherine, and three chQdren at 2223 Scio Church Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich. 48103. 
EDWARD H. WULF '52, June. His widow survives at 120 W. Pokafloo St, 
South Bend 46617. 
WILUAM H. BURNETT '55, May 2. Survivinc are bis widow and children at 4S07 Weybum Dr., Annandaie, Va. 22003. 
JAMES D. MCLAUGHLIN '55, Jan. 12. 1967. His widow survives at 40 Rockwell St, Dorchester, Mass. 02124. 
PATRICK J. WAGNER '55, May 22. He is survived by his widow at 609 Princess St, Alexandria. Va. 22314, and five children. 
RALPH P. KEPNER '56, Jan. 28. He is survived by his widow at 133 Yaikerdale Dr., Rochester. N.Y. 14615. and three sons. Mark. Daniel and Dennis. 
ROBERT J. STORK JR. '65, '64 PJL killed in Vietnain, March. He is survived by his parents. Mr. and Mrs. Robert Storic. of 5664 Broadway Temce, Oakland. Calit 94618. and a brother. PHILIP '67. 
K. MICHAEL FALVEY '66. March 10. of a heart attack. He is survived by his widow at 1709 Greenback St, Lafayette. Ind., a son. his parents and three brotheis. 
Lt PATRICK M. DKON '67, May 28. Dixon, the son of former lUincHs Lt Gov. and Mrs. Sherwood Dixon, was killed while leading his reconnaissaiice platoon in a fire fi^t in Vietnant His parents reside at 121 
E. First St. Dixon, lU. 61021. IGNATIUS M. FIETROWIAK '68, April 5. He is survived tqr his parents, 
Mr. and Mrs. John Pietrowiak, of 2614 Fredeticksoo, South Bend, Ind. 46628. 
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy CSC '25 died in South Bend on Jiily 5. The University archivist and a professor of history, Fr. McAvoy joined the ND staff in 1929. He headed the history department from 1939 to 1960 and held several edihmal positions on the 
Review of Politics. 
FT. Thomas T. McAvoy 

ALUMNI SPEAK 

Perpetaating the spirit... 
by Leonard H. Skoglund President Alumni Association 
At the last Alumni Senate Meeting, the plan of action for Alumni Club Recruiting Committee was fully devel­oped. The admissions office is now in full swing on the program and those clubs that have established active com­mittees have already achieved sub­stantial results. 
For the interested and concerned alumnus, this area of admissions and scholarships is one of the most active, interesting and rewarding in which to serve. We hope that all clubs will actively engage in this program and that our setup of recruiting commit­tees will be 100% strong when the fall school year begins and final activ­ity for the entering class of 1970 tidces place. 
During the summer, most of our clubs have a variety of social events, golf outings, picnics, etc. Some clubs have found this an excellent time to include present students and pro­spective students as well. Freshman parent gatherings have gained great popularity in recent years and are well received. Scholarship needs are great also and local club scholarship benefit programs blend very well with increased recruiting commit­tee activity. 
The increasing activity at local clubs involving contacts with current and prospective students is most desir­able. We can most effectively fill our role as alumni — giving moral and financial support, helping to pre­serve tradition and heritage that have made Notre Dame mean so much to each of us — if we know and under­stand the problems and objectives of today's University. What better way can we learn of today's needs than by mixing with today's and tomorrow's Notre Dame men to see their prob­lems, viewpoints, needs and accom­plishments. 

AlnniBi directory, eiiapter ? 
by James D. Cooney Executive Secretary Alumni Association 
Plans are moving ahead toward the production of Notre Dame's National Alumni Directory in early 1970. But, as with any undertaking of this extent, questions are inevitably asked about the methods utilized. Appar­ently, few question the importance and value of the directory itself. Identifying and locating members of the family, leading toward greater interaction within the family, seem to be generally acceptable considera­tions. How this is done is another frequently posed question. 
Compiling a national directory which would be useful and meaning­ful to more than 43,000 persons is no mean task. Considering the fact that about 25% of ND's alumni are in flux at any given time, and therefore not instantly locatable, the effort to fix them geo­graphically is of massive propor­tions. We don't kid ourselves that 100% will be included in the direc­tory. Nor perhaps, will 75% be listed. Such directories, therefore, are at best incomplete, and fractionally out of date at press time. 
One year ago, the National Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, in consultation with members of the Alumni Senate, grappled with this and many other questions. The essential determina­tion was that the principle behind such an effort remained valid, al­though tempered by the potential extent of participation. As indi­cated in the first mailing announcing the creation of the directory, neither the University nor the Alumni As­sociation are liable for the costs involved, nor it should be added, will any profits accrue. Our contract with the Rockwell F. Clancy Com­pany of Chicago is a services-rendered arrangement This, of coiurse, places the emphasis on alum­ni participation, and (let us be honest) subsidization of the directory. All aliunni are asked to complete the questionnaires which will list them automatically and without charge in the directory. Some alumni will be asked to engage in sponsorship of the directory . . . others will be invited to purchase advertising. All will be encouraged to purchase copies of the directory. It might appear that the association abdicates a responsi­bility in allowing an outside agency to perform a service appropriately its own. The fact is that the national office is simply not geared at this time to undertake the produc­tion of such a directory. It is hoped that we can do so in a very few years. In the meantime, we believe that the advantages to be derived from such a project now far outweigh the dis­
advantages. The "now" decision, of course, puts the emphasis on you. It's that kind of faith which has some­how kept us alive and kicking. We hope you share it 
^••'^mmm 


ALV3tNM ASK 
OH eoednealion 
I received my copy of the ALUMNUS 
for June, 1969, and read the article 
entitled "Steps Toward Coeducation." 
When I first saw the newspaper 
accounts concerning the recent action 
of the trustees of the University, I 
suspicioned this was merely the first 
part of a program to make the 
University coeducational for all pur­
poses. The ALUMNUS article con­
firmed those suspicions. 
The traditions of the University, 
over the past 125 years, have ade­
quately proved themselves. I do not 
think that either the administration 
or the trustees of the University, can 
demonstrate that the academic life, 
or for that matter, the social develop­
ment of the students, have suffered 
from the policies that have been 
followed in the past. In fact, I am-
willing to argue that the graduates 
of the University every day prove 
the wisdom of past policies. 
Furthermore, I do not subscribe to the theory that change is always for the better, nor do I accept the proposition that following the crowd is always right or desirable. 
In my opinion, the administration and trustees of the University have, in their desire to pattern themselves after other institutions, obliterated a noble institution to become one of of the mass. 
I cannot sit idly by and thereby give my tacit approval to these actions of the University. 
I, therefore, request that you strike my name from the alumni list and that you cease sending to me solicita­tions for money and all other materials, magazines, pamphlets and communications concerning the new institution you still call Notre Dame. 
John F. Marchal '58 116-118 W. Fourth St. Greenville. Ohio 45331 

^O's direction 
A recent article in the New York Times Magazine (May 11, 1969) on Father Hesburgh caused me to reflect upon the direction in which Notre Dame has been heading in the past few years. The article pointed to the administration's fear of the largely conservative alumni freezing their checkbooks with continued progress away from the medieval institution of the "Football Years." To make my one voice heard in refutation of this fear, I enclose my contribution to the 27th Alumni Fund . . . double the amount which I gave last year. 
I heartily endorse the trends of the recent past. I applaud the emergence of ND as a first-rate university in the traditional disciplines of learning. But more importantly, I embrace the evolvement of an atmosphere con­ducive to honest questioning regarding human existence, one's identity and place in life, the problem of death, and a search for an authentic God free from the prejudices of dogmatic religion. This atmosphere has also led many members of the ND com­munity to question other aspects of life such as the Vietnam war, military spending, election reform, and other controversial issues of our time. For the most part, the answers to these questions are the result of an intel­lectually honest evaluation. For this reason they are far superior to the answers "fed" to apathetic students in 
days gone by. This atmosphere encourages today's ND man to he an active participant in humanity. 
My commitment to the Univer­sity is strong. Notre Dame's future, with the concerned and responsible leadership of men such as Father Hesburgh, can only be a continuation of this positive trend. 
Michael F. Maas '66 U.S.S. WaddeU (DDG-24) FPO San Francisco 96601 
ED. NOTE: 
Your comments in writing con­cerning material printed in the ALUMNUS are invited. All letters should be directed to the editor and should be not more than 250 words in length. 
49 

•Mr. Franciis P. Clark, 
Head, Microfilming & Photo. Lab. Memorial Library Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
A trip is a trip! 









