The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
I, Volume 32, No. 5  
Nov.-Dcc. 1954  
Jan\cs E. Armstrong, '25, Editor  i  ^iXt^  i^ml  ill i -tJ^  *> I — .  »  
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Managing Editor  
Construction is undenvay on the Haninics Shopping Center. (Photo on left.) It is a gift of Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammcs, Kankakee, 111.  
Pangbom Residence Hall To Be Erected on Campus— Scheduled For Occupancy in 1955. See Page 2  
Notre  Dame's  All-Amcricans See Page 12  
The Detroit Notre Dame Alumni Club Sponsors "Friendly Foes" Football Party (below). See Page 6.  


New Residence Hall Gift of Pangborns 
Campus Building To Be Ready For Occupancy At Beginning Of Fall Term In 1955 
A new $800,000 residence hall, to accommodate 200, will be built on campus as a gift of Thomas ^V. Pang­bom and John C. Pangbom, through the Pangbom Foundation of Hagers­town, Md. To be Notre Dame's 15th campus residence building, it was be­gun in October and will be ready for occupancj' in September, 1955. 
"Witli the marked increase in en­rollment in recent years, the university has found it impossible to provide cam­pus residence facilities for all its stu­dents," said Father Theodore M. Hes-burgh, Notre Dame's president. "The construction of Pangbom Hall will en­able many students who formerly lived off-campus to share more fully in the life and spirit of Notre Dame. I know I speak for generations of Notre Dame men in expressing the University's gratitude to Thomas Pangbom and John Pangbom for tlieir magnificent gift." 
Pangbom Hall is to be erected on the new quadrangle between Fisher Hall and the Rockne Memorial. Designed by the Chicago architectural firm of Holabird, Root and Burgee, the buflf brick building will be a tasteful blend 
DATES TO REMEMBER 1954-55 
Universal Communion Sunday, (Closing of Marian Year) Dec. 5, 1954 
Universal Notre Dame Night, April 18, 1955 
Commencement, June 5, 1955 
Class Reunions, June 10, 11, 12, 1955 
of modem functional and collegiate Gothic architecture. The structure will include- 100 double rooms, a chapel and recreation room. 
The Pangbom brothers operate tlie Pangbom Corporation, Hagerstown, Md., one of the world's largest manu­facturers of blast cleaning and dust control equipment, which on Septem­ber 1st celebrated its golden anniver­sar)'. Thomas Pangbom founded the company in 1904 and is its president. He is a member of the Advisor)' Coun­cil for Science and Engineering at No­tre Dame and a trustee of the Catholic Universit)' of America. 
His brother, John Pangbom, joined the company in 1905 and holds the posts of vice president and treasurer. Through the Pangbom Foundation, which the brothers created in 1945, numerous grants have been made for charitable, religious, scientific, and edu­cational purposes. 

Holy Cross Fathers Erect Calif. Parish 
The new parish of St. Francis Xav­ier was erected recently in Burbank, Calif. It will serve some 650 families and will be the first parish in the his­tory of the archdiocese to be staffed by Holy Cross Fathers." 

The first pastor is Rev. Jolm P. Lynch, C.S.C., who practiced law in New York City prior to entering the seminar)' in 1931. Father L)'nch has imtil recently been cliaplain at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Calif., and he has also been associate director of the Family Theatre with the Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C. Fa­ther L)'nch is a graduate of Notre Dame's 1925 class and was ordained in 1937. 


Alumni Directors Attend Meeting 

The Fall meeting of the Alumni Board of Directors is being held No­vember 4, 5, 6, 7 in Philadelphia, Pa., at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel. Com­mittee reports will be given by the fol­lowing: Executive, James G. McGold­
rick; Class Activities and Resolutions, Ralph Cor)'n; Club Activities, and Re­ligion and Citizenship, John W. Court­ney; Prestige and Public Relations, Msgr. Joseph B. Toomey; Foundation, Alumni Fund and Job Counseling, Dr. Leo O'Donnell; Inter-Alumni, Daniel Culhane; Prep School Relations, Karl Martersteck; Budget and Finance, John F. Saunders; Nominating, Mr. Saimders and Mr. Culhane. 
President McGoldrick will preside over the sessions. Representatives from the University scheduled to attend the meeting include Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, C.S.C, Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, James E. Arm­strong and John Cackley. 
Mr. Ben Duffy, president of Ballon, Bar­ton, Durstinc and Osborn, Inc., advertising agency, has been named general chairman, of Brotherhood Week to be obscr\'cd na-i tionally next Februar)- 20-27. Mr. Duffy is chairman of Notre Dame's Presidents' Committee in New York City, a member of tlie University's Ad\'isory Council of > the College of Commerce and a Knight 
of the Order of Malta. 

Ji Nolrt Dame Alumnus, Xovrmber-Decembtr, 1954 

Army Adopts Program 


Williams $50,000 Bequest 
Suggested By Priest 


Provides Law Scholarships 
The Univei-sity of Notre Dame has received a becjuest of $50,000 from the estate of the late Charles F. Williams, Cincinnati, O., the former president of the Western and Southern Life Insur­
.. ance Company and a member of the 
IRISH NETWORK FANS FAVORITE 

The Irish Football Network under the direction of Joe Boland, '27, has been bringing play-by-play descriptions to millions of Notre Dame fans all over the globe. Now in its sixth season, it has grown from a small nucleus of 12 stations to the largest specialized net­work in the U. S. of 119 stations. 
This fall, for example, the voice of Joe Boland is heard every Saturday afternoon everywhere the Irish play, home or away, by alumni and other friends from Honolulu to Kalamazoo and Muskegon to New Orleans. In fact, outlets are set up in 30 states and, in the past two seasons, 10 games have been sent around the world via the Armed Forces Radio. 
Not only is the Irish Network the largest in size for its type but it also has excellent ratings. The Pulse, Inc., broadcast-measurement firm has re­ported that Boland's ratings have placed him No. 1 among the top ten stations in New York City, St. Louis and San Francisco; No. 2 among top stations in Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, New Orleans, Buffalo, De­troit and Milwaukee. This is an amaz­ing result particularly when the net­work operates only on Saturday after­noon during the football season and even then in competition with the ma­jor national hook-ups. 
Joe Boland is one of football's top analysts. He played at Notre Dame in front of the Four Horsemen, spent 14 years in the coaching field at Santa Clara, College of St. Thomas, Notre Dame and Purdue and has been a suc­cessful radio and TV announcer since 1942. Joe has been active in the Alumni Association, has served as a member of the ND Alumni Associa­tion's Board of Directors and, last win­ter, was master of ceremonies at the testimonial banquet for Fi-ank Leahy's 1953 squad. 
Sportscaster Joe Boland, '27 

Associate Board of Lay Trustees at No­tre Dame from 1948 until his death in September, 1952. His bequest pro­vides the first funded scholarships in the Notre Dame law school, which is the oldest Catholic college of law in the United States. 
"The Charles F. AVilliams law schol­arships will memorialize a valued friend and lay trustee of Notre Dame," said the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University. "Mr. ^Villiams was a generous bene­factor of the Church and Catholic higher education. I want to express the gratitude not only of the university but also of Notre Dame law students who will share his generosity in the years to come." 
AVilliams was an 1897 graduate of Cincinnati University. He was elected vice president and general counsel of Western and Southern in 1910 and became president of the company in 1931. Four years later, he assisted the late Archbishop McNicholas of Cincin­nati in tlie founding of the Inslitiitum Divi Thomae, a scientific research cen­ter. Williams was a Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory and a Mas­ter Knight of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta. 
I CHRISTMAS CARDS § 
W For an attractive box of 20 Christ-S s= mas cards send $1.00 to Moreau S S or Dujarie Halls, Notre Dame, g g Indiana. Profits will go to the % % Bengal Missions. ^ 
The U. S. Army has adopted and endorsed the "definition" of the Gen­eral Aflilitary Science ROTC program as propounded by the Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., director of military information and guidance at Notre Dame. 
A member of the joint civifian-mili­tary panel which in 1952 was commis­sioned by the Pentagon to revise its ROTC program. Father Woodward in liis report to the military, rapped the "fragmentation and superficiality" of the outworn ROTC Branch • Material program, and its "costly attrition rate of students." 
"One of the ideak of this univer­sity is to train her sons in the art of governing men," Father Robert Woodward, C.S.C, told 1,500 fresh­men during the orientation program. 
Pointing out that Notre Dame is one of the few universities offering ROTC programs of the army, navy, air force, and marines, he urged new students to seriously consider these programs. "Catholic youth of this generation," he warned, "are too frequently satisfied to play only a subordinate role" in the politics and armed forces of their country. 
Noting that the old curriculum was "not up to the college level" and "lack­ing in motivation," the priest advocated a general course, which, unlike its pred­ecessor, will be based on the realization that the college student is on a higher mental level than the average recruit. With history as its "integrating prin­ciple," the new course will "provide a broad basic military education rather than individual proficiency in the tech­nical duties of junior officers." The former setup, wrote Father Wood­ward, placed "too much emphasis on being an artilleryman or an engineer, and not enough on being a soldier and an officer." The new program will not only prepare the student to handle a gun, but to lead his men and to inspire them. It will enable him "not only to take care of himself, but of his pla­toon." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-Jieeember, J954 
•^^,i(r:^. 
Award Burns Scholarships 
Rev. James A. Bums Memorial Scholarships to the University of Notre Dame have been awarded to ten students in eight states, the University's Committee on Scholarships announced. The Bums scholarships, which are awarded on a competitive basis, provide $500 for the freshman year and $300 for succeeding years provided the recipient main­tains an average of 85%. 

Painting Donated 
"View of the Amo," an oil painting by John Manship, has been given to the University of Notre Dame galleries by the Childe Hassam Fund through the American Academy of Arts and Let­ters, New York City. 
The painting is one of twenty-one works of art by eighteen contemporary artists recently pur­chased by the Academy for presentation to mu­seums and art galleries throughout the countr)' as provided for in the \\'ill of the late Childe Hassam. 

Dr. Chroust Tours Europe 
Dr. Anton H. Chroust, professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, served as reporter gen­eral and first vice-chairman of the Fourth Inter­national Congress of Comparative Law held in Paris recently. He also delivered a paper at the congress which was attended by representatives from the United States and every free country in Europe and Asia. A specialist in legal history. Dr. Chroust discussed certain technical and legal aspects of ancient international treaties. 
While abroad, Dr. Chroust presented another paper on recent trends in American legal philos­ophy at the Intemational Law Institute in Lon­don. He also attended the annual meeting of the English Law Institute at Edinburgh, Scotland. He returned to the United States in the latter part of August. 

Book Depicts Hungarian Saints. 
Rev. A. L. Gabriel, O. Praem., Director of the 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-Deeember, 1954 

SSSB3SSBS^^S^53^E:ciZi:!s;^?s?7Tc>s:s:7 »J4«-1P,WJ 
Mediaeval Institute at the University of Notre Dame, has written a new book in Hungarian on the lives of the Himgarian saints. It will be pub-, lished soon in English under the title, Pannonian\ Portraits. Pannonia is the Latin name for the old Roman province which was occupied by the first Christians in Hungary. 



Overcrowding Parochial Schools 
The overcrowding of parochial schools and tlie necessity of sending Catholic children to public schools may eventually prove beneficial to the American Catholic family, according to Dr. John 
J. Kane, head of the sociology department at the University of Notre Dame. 
Writing on "Catholic Parents and Public Schools" in the August 28 issue of The Ave Maria, Dr. Kane asserted that "Catholic education, at least on the elementary level, is in desperate straits. Too many Catholic fathers and mothers have been content to let the Sisters take over this job," he claims. The shortage of nuns and the overwhelming number of children have aggra­vated the situation. According to the Notre Dame sociologist, there is only one solution: "religious training within the home must be started or in­creased." 

Dr. Hermens Returns 
Dr. Ferdinand A. Hermens, professor of po­litical science at Notre Dame, has rejoined the University faculty after a year in Europe where he served as a visiting United States specialist in po­litical science under the auspices of the State De­partment. A specialbt in political theory, Dr. Hermens was appointed by the German Minister of Interior to a committee of thirteen outstanding, European and American jurists and political sci­
entists to survey the factors necessary for stability I in a democracy. 
During his year abroad. Professor Hermens held the post of visiting professor at the University of Munich and at the Mimich Institute of Politics. 
ftaWI'</«;./ 
'^, 

: !s 
••IB"'-'' 

Fasting Rules Interpreted 
A new pamphlet designed to familiarize Cath­olics with the new regulations on the Eucharistic fast has been written by the Rev. John A. O'Brien bf the University of Notre Dame. It is entitled 
New Eucharistic Fast Helps You to Receive Often 
and is published by the Ave Maria Press. "It is most important that all Catholics under­stand correctly the new legislation on the Euchar­istic fast," Father O'Brien writes, "so that they may make proper use of the generous concessions designed to bring many more of the faithful to the Communion rail and to bring them there more frequently." 
Dr. Schipper 'Naturalist' Editor 
Dr. Arthur L. Schipper was recently named editor of the American Midland Naturalist, a sci­entific journal published quarterly by the Univer­sity of Notre Dame. He succeeds Dr. John D. Mizelle who has edited the publication since 1947 and who will continue to serve as associate editor for invertebrate zoolog)-. Dr. Mizelle resigned the editorship to return to a full program of teaching and research. Both men are faculty members in Notre Dame's biology department. 
Germans Face Reconstruction 
According to William O. Shanahan, associate professor of history at the University of Notre Dame, the emergence of authoritarianism in Ger­many was due in part to the reluctance of nine­teenth centur)' German Protestants to work for a Christian social order. Shanalian analyzes the response of German Protestants to the industrial revolution in his new book, German Protestants Face the Social Question published by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Press. 
Proposes Liberal Arts Study 
A conference of Catholic college presidents and deans to evaluate the new liberal arts pro­grams being offered in many institutions has been proposed by the Rev. William F. Cunningham, C.S.C., professor of education at the University of Notre Dame. Writing in the Sept. 24 issue of Commonweal, Father Cunningham makes some specific proposals for placing the study of Chris­tian culture at the heart of the Catholic college. 
"Catholic colleges are free of a problem that is a major headache for practically all other insti­tutions, namely, the lack of a basic philosophy of life on which to build a new program," Father Cunningham writes. "In our philosophy of life and, therefore, of education, the ideal outcome is the Christian person." 

Acoustical Training Important . 
Ear training is as important to certain Navy personnel engaged in anti-submarine warfare as it is to the first violinist of a symphony orchestra, according to Professor Charles Biondo of the No­tre Dame music department. During the school year he conducts the University Symphonette and teaches courses in ear training and music theory. He recently returned from San Diego where he established a course in acoustical ear training for the Navy's anti-submarine personnel. 
Sets Code of Ethics 
There are no insurmountable temptations or dangers in intercollegiate athletics if school offi­cials would always consider first the boy and his education, according to the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame. 
Every major abuse in intercollegiate athletics would automatically be eliminated. Father Hes­burgh contends, if this principle were generally and consistently applied. The Notre Dame presi­dent answered critics of college football in a signed article in the September 27 issue of Sports Illustrated. 
Declaring that Notre Dame favors intercolle­giate athletics "within their proper dimensions," Father Hesburgh writes that "institutional integ­rity" is essential. "The least a imiversity can do in this regard is to tell its alumni and friends exactly where it stands and then to investigate thoroughly any reports to the contrary." 
Sanctity Easy Declares Bishop 
"Sanctity, like baseball, is simple if you know how," the Most Reverend Raymond P. Hillinger, Bbhop of Rockford, declared here in an address keynoting the second annual Institute of Spir­ituality. 
Addressing more than 650 Sis:er Superiors and Novice Mistresses in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. Bishop Hillinger said that "sanctity is remarkably simple if we but allow ourselves to be simple instruments in the hand of the Heavenly Father for the work which the Holy Spirit wishes to do within our souls." 

Father Hesburgh Appointed 
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, has just been appointed a member of the Schools and Universities Advis­ory Board of the Education Committee for the Hoover Report. This announcement was made by Clarence Francis, chairman of the Education Committee. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-Deeember, 1954 .5 
DETROIT—^Director of Athletics Edward W. Krause discusses the season with representatives of opponent schools at the Notre Dame of Detroit alumni club's "Friendly Foes Kickoff Party." 


ND Alumni OF Detroit Sponsor Triendly Foes* Football Party 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit tried something different last year and it was so successful that the same type of event was held again this fall—"The Friendly Foes Pre-Season Kickoff Beer and Pretzel Party" packs them in and it only costs a buck. 
Each opponent school on the Fight­ing Irish grid schedule sends a local representative to discuss a topic (foot­ball, naturally) from the rostnmi and all alumni living in metropolitan De­troit, of these institutions, are extended an invitation to the party. Former midshipmen who claim the U. S. Naval Academy as their alma mater called this year to find out when the party would be held even before any plans were set. 
Director of Athletics Edward W. Krause presents Notre Dame's view­point on the current season. A board of 'experts' consisting of \vriters and sportscasters from the area stage a question-and-answer session with par­ticipants from the audience. 

'€ Notre Datru Alumnus, Kouember-December, 1954 
More than 400 people including alumni, and Notre Dame students and their Dads, attended the last informal meeting. Edward C. Roney, Jr., '43, has done an effective job as chairman of the affair on both occasions. 
The menu of beer and pretzels aids in keeping the cost \vithin the reach of everyone—one single dollar is all you can spend regardless of how generous you may be and feel. The "Friendly Foes Kickoff Party" serves as a stimu­lating event on Detroit's annual pro­gram which also includes an impressive UND Night dinner, retreat, scholar­ship, golf outing and others. 
Leahy With United 
Frank Leahy, in addition to being a vice-president of Exothermic Alloys Company in Chicago, is also doing public relations work \vith United Air­lines. 
AHENTION: SUGAR BOWL VISITORS 

The Notre Dame Club of New Orleans invites all Alumni to attend our Annual Alumni-Student Lunch­eon Friday, December 31, 1954, 
12:30Noon at .Amaud's Restaurant. Cost $3.50 per person. Advance res­ervations required. WILLIAM H. JOHNSTON, Club Pres., 5540 S. Miro St., New Orleans, La. 
Fr. Rick Celebrates 25 Years In Dacca 

Rev. Joseph M. Rick, C.S.C, cele­brated his Silver Jubilee earlier this year as a priest and he will have com­pleted 25 years of foreign mission serv­ice in November. Father Rick is reli­gious superior of the vicariate of Dac­ca. He has been instrumental in the building of Notre Dame College in Dacca and recently annoimced the ap­pointment of Father James L. Martin as principal and Father Albert A. Croce as vice-principal. 
is in truth the alma mater of every 
from your 

alumnus, and other alumni are in truth 
Cdiiandal GammeiiUAlumni Secretary 
his brothers. Unless there is some ef­
fort to maintain these ties, the indi­
Fall does not give us much time to 
think, especially when the first home 
football game occurs on the third day 
of the first semes­
ter classes. Never­
theless, someone 
has to try to do a 
little detached 
thinking, and as the 
oldest living inhab­
itant in our pro­
gram I am it. Re­
sults: Jim Annstrong The Association 
will celebrate its 90th anniversary of 
organization in 1958—the Golden Ju­
bilee of its continuous organization (a 
reorganization program in 1908), and 
the 35th anniversary (1923) of the 
Alumni Office, ALUMNUS magazine, 
and an Alumni Secretary. Since the 
latter area has been mine since 1926, 
it does bring some ideas. 
We have come a long way. 
In many statistics, we look compar­.atively good in the national field. 
We are growing in all directions. And there is hardly a spot on the map today where the Alumni Office cannot point out not only an alumnus, but an active and informed alumnus. 
Those are not the thoughts that come, on reflection. Those are some of the rewards that encourage you. But the thoughts are for the gaps, the un­finished projects, the untapped re­sources, the unresponsive alumni. 
As the year nears another turnover, here are some of the things that worr>' me about the individual alumnus—not the active alumnus, probably not you, because if you are reading this you are unlikely to be among the group I am thinking of. 
The Lay Alumnus 
^Vhat should a Notre Dame man have done in 1954, as an alumnus? I am thinking now in terms of the lay alimmus—the religious seem so far to hold the edge on performance, be­cause person after person says Notre Dame could not e.xist without prayer, and prayer is the contribution that keeps them in perpetual good standing. 
1. He should live according to the teachings of Notre Dame. That is the first hope—one entirely independent of gift, or job, or family, or publicity, or football tickets. 

The Leader 
2. He should lead. This does not mean heading parades, running for of­fice, or chairmanning great functions. This means sharing the privilege of your Notre Dame training with others, whether it be a small son, a neighbor, a PTA, a city, a nation, or a world. You know the Samaritan. Your intel­lectual and spiritual wealth make it possible for you'to minister to the in­tellectual and spiritual wounds of the many neighbors who have fallen among the most tragic of thieves. Here again, contribution, or title, or eloquence, or headlines mean little in the actual per­formance of this phase of your alumni life. 
Reading List 
3.
 He should grow. The Reading List you have just received is only one of the evidences of our hope that you are growing, as you were urged to grow, spiritually, intellectually, cultur­ally, professionally, after your gradua­tion. Education, on the formal levels, offers you the tools. But the best equipped workman shows no more progress than the worst, if he is idle. 

4.
 He should know Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. The University 


vidual loses the richness of_ a family life he can not replace. The strength of union is a special strength among Notre Dame men, especially now in an era that has this special strength as its target. 
Recognition for a buck 
5. He should give to Notre Dame. No, this is not the whole purpose of these remarks. On the contrary, I be­lieve that if you follow out the above ideas you could be a very strong alumnus without giving at all. But it is not natural, if you subscribe to the other relationships, that you should not see the need and the appropriateness, and the obUgation to give, if you rea­sonably can, to the support of the fac­tor which gives all of these things their meaning—^Notre Dame. Because we know physical circimistances vary greatly, we have provided that $1 gains you the same recognition as $100 or $1000 in our Alumni Association. That is what makes it difficult for me to say to students, administration and faculty that 53 Notre Dame men out of every 100 in the year 1953 could not or would not give even $1 to their alma mater. What would you say? 
—Jim Armstrong 
This magazine is published bi-montly by the University of Notre Dome, Notre Dame. Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. I, 1939, at the PostofFice. Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of Aug. 24,1912. 

Members of the 1943 dass got off to an early start when the Class Reimion Local Com­mittee met in the Morris Inn recently to make plans for Rcimion Week-end on Jime 10, 11, and 12. From left to right: Don Claeys, Bob Sncc, Vincc Laurita, William Klem, Jr., Robert Riordan and Class Secretary AI Lesmez. 
SotT€ Dam€ AlumnuSt NoMmb*T^D€c*mbtT, 1954 
WASHINGTON, D. C—Howard J. Schellenberg, Jr., '41, Neil O'Bryan, '58, and Paul Tully, '39 (shown L. to R.) go over recap of score sheet after alumni golf outing. 
BOOK REVIEW 
SUMMARIES OF LEADING CASES ON THE CONSTITUTION, Paul 
C. Bartholomew, '29, Ph.D. Little-field, Adams and Company, Ames, Iowa. Reviewed by Devere T. Plunkett, '30. 
The autlior of this handy reference collection has acliieved a very difficult task—boiling down the elaborate su­preme court opinions to short, mean­ingful summations. The terminology of court opinions, tlieir diffuse reason­ing, the constant reference to earlier court precedents—all of tliese tilings make extremely difficult reading for anyone except tlie constitutional la\v)'er. Professor Bartliolomew has decided to give tlie laymen a form of constitu­tional reference-book he can cope with --brief, simple and well-ordered. In the introduction to this collection of famous cases, the author wisely in­cludes several pages of an earlier book he wrote, American Government Un­der the Constitution. These pages de­scribe the structure of the federal Ju­diciary and trace the movement of 

8 Notre Dame AlumnuSj November-December, 1954 
cases on their way to the Supreme Bench. 
The choice of cases to be summar­ized appears to be based on what de­cisions were pivotal in American his-tor}', and which ones contain enduring concepts of constitutional law. For example, the Dred Scott opinion of slavery days is very properly included in this book. Much of the subject mat­ter is now obsolete but its historical significance is still immense, and its assertion of judicial supremacy still endures. 
The brevity of these summaries causes much information to be ex­cluded that the more curious scholar seeks. But corollary cases are listed b.y Professor Bartholomew for furtlier reading. Pertinent facts giving rise to the case are presented, but there is no space to explain the political and eco­nomic setting in which the issue arose. All summaries suffer by this limitation, but the audior here makes good use of his available space. 
This new addition to the Littlefield College Outlines will be a very con­venient desk reference for students of American government, constitutional history and law, and for all people aware of the powerful impact that Supreme Court opinions have on American life. 
PLACEMENT OFFICE INTERVIEWS 3,241 
The Placement Office, under the di­rection of William R. Dooley, '26, con­ducted 3,241 student job interviews during the past academic year. There was an increase of approximately 100 student registrants in 1954 over 1953. As a direct result of interview it is definitely known that 159 students ob­tained employment. Many who were interviewed have gone into the Armed Forces while 42 students received jobs "on their own" but which came as an indirect aid from the Placement Office. 

There were 212 interviewing em­ployers on campus during the past school year as compared with 180 the previous two semesters. The Place­ment Office is maintaining a file of job opportunities for teacher candidates. Dooley has been extending assistance to alumni seeking a change in employ­ment through lists of prospective em­ployers and with the special help of placement chairmen in some of the larger alumni clubs. 
DEARBORN—Wonder if these two talked about football? (L. to R.): Harold H. Gasser, president of Michigan State's na­tional alumni organization and John W. Courtney, '25, vice-pres. of Notre Dame Alumni Association. And incidentally Mr. "^ Gasser's son married John Courtney's daughter. 
Notre Dame College Erected in Pakistan 
This year the cornerstone of the new Notre Dame College to be adminis­tered by the Holy Cross Fathers in Dacca, Pakistan, was laid by His Emi­nence Valerian Cardinal Gracias, Car­dinal-Archbishop of Bombay. Attend­ing the ceremonies were the Apostolic Delegate to Pakistan, the Governor of East Bengal, the Chief Justice of the Dacca High Court, the American, British and Japanese Consuls, the Sec­retary of Education for East Bengal, the Vice-Chancellor of Dacca Univer­sit)' and many other ecclesiastical and civil dignitaries. 
This ceremony marked another sig­nificant advance in the apostolate of the Holy Cross missionaries in Bengal. There are several colleges and one uni­versity in Dacca. The first president of the college when it was kno\\'n as St. Gregory's was Father John J. Har­rington, C.S.C. As Father Harrington was in ill health and unable to. con­tinue as head of the college, he has been succeeded by Father James L. Martin, C.S.C. 
Accountants Guild Formed in Dioceses 

Gustave A. Reh, Jr., chairman of the Catholic Accountants Guild of the Diocese of Brooklyn, has an­nounced that Catholic guilds are be­ing formed in dioceses throughout this country. Additional information can be had by writing to Mr. Gus­tave A. Reh, Jr., 10 Clent Road, Great Neck, New York. 
LOST: 
Notre Dame Class Rings 

Class ring lost in Hebron Res­taurant, Hebron, Illinois, can be obtained by writing to Ernest Hei­mann, manager. 
1953 class • ring, green stone, D.J.T, initials, may be had by con­tacting Manager's Office, JMS Building, South Bend, Ind. 
The Rev. Henry M. Kemper, '06, is celebrating his Golden Jubilee year in the priesthood. Father Kemper is assigned to Notre Dame Institute in Kerrville, Te-xas, Coming to Kerr-ville in 1911, he had charge of building the school one year later. Terry Brcnnan won't lack for material in the future if a few of Father Kemper's "All-Americans" decide on the University of Notre Dame as their Alma Mater. 
NUNS ACT IN CAMPUS PLAY 
The Notre Dame Department of farce reaches its finale when the nuns Speech, in cooperation with Miss Na­
are returned, again miraculously to talie E. White, Summer Theatre Direc­
Indiana. 
tor at ND and an Instructor in Drama, Three performances of the comedy Speech, and Plaj'writing at St. Mary's were given on July 25-26. Two per­College, presented a farcical play writ­formances were presented by an all-ten by Miss White. 
nun cast for priests. Brothers, and Sis­
The play. Seven Nuns at Las Vegas, 
ters enrolled at the Summer Session. A concerns seven Sisters who find them­third showing was given for the public selves and their convent miraculously by a cast of local actresses. 
transplanted from Indiana to the des­ert near the Nevada resort city. While Miss White was formerly associated there the nuns turn the thoughts of with the Pasadena Playhouse and has a vacationists and natives from entertain­doctorate in Drama from Yale Uni­ment to religious contemplation. The versity. 
SCHENECTADY—One of 35 chcmbtry professors at three-day General Electric confer­ence in Schenectady was Dr. A. J. Boyle (left), administrative head of Notre Dame's chemistry department. He is shown with Dr. John Devins while inspecting equipment for determining dielectric factors in a GE research laboratory. 
Notre Dame Aiumnus, November-December, 1954 
Irish Basketball Team Has 24 Games Carded 

i. [^jlMiks
/I ^' 
For Current Season 

FRANK CARIDEO, All-.American quarterback at Notre Dame in 1929 and 1930, receives Hall of Fame award at Purdue game. L. to R.: his daughter. Randy, Mrs. Carideo, Frank and Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CS.C, executive vice-president. 
Frank Carideo Receives Award In Footbairs Hall Of Fame 
Frank Carideo, quarterback on the is soon to be built on the campus of national champion 1929 and 1930 No­Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N. tre Dame football teams and himself J., site of the first intercollegiate foot­a two-time AU-American, was officially ball game in 1869. enshrined in the National Football Hall After graduation Carideo was assist­of Fame October 2. The ceremonies ant coach at Purdue, head mentor at took place between halves of tlie ND-both Mississippi State and Missouri, Purdue game and marked Carideo as and assistant at Iowa. For the past five the sixth Notre Dame man to be so years he has been an insurance execu­honored. tive in Iowa City, la., connected with 
The Hall of Fame plaque was pre­the Bankers' Life Company of Des sented to the former Irish field general Moines. by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CS.C, ex­ecutive vice-president of the Univer­
Tentative '55 Schedule 
sity. Present with Carideo when he Sept. 24 So. Af ethodist at Notre Dame was given the award were his wife and 

Oct. 1 Indiana at Notre Dame daughter, Randy. Oct. 7 Miami at Miami, Fla. (night) Oct. 15 Michigan State at Lansing 
Carideo joins Knute Rockne, George Oct. 22 Purdue at Lafayette Gipp, Elmer Layden, Frank Thomas, 

Oct. 29 Navy at Cleveland and Gus Dorais as Notre Dame men Nov. 5 Pennsylvania at Notre Dame 
Nov. 12 North Carolina at Chapel Hill who have been singled out by the Hall Nov. 19 Iowa at Notre Dame of Fame. The national football shrine Nov. 26 Southern Cal at Los Angeles 
JO A^o/rc Dame Alumnus, Xovembfr-Decembet, 1954 

After losi'ng three starters from last year's great team. Coach Johnny Jor­dan will attempt to mold another first class hardwood outfit this year around returning Capt. Jack Stephens, for^vard Jolin Fannon, and Bill Weiman, Ste­phens' running mate at guard. 
Notre Dame's all-time high scoring center, Dick Rosenthal, flashy Joe Bertrandj and steady Bill Sullivan were lost from last year's aggregation which won 22 and lost only 3. 
Also returning for another season are last year's squadmen Steve Rebora, guard; Lloyd Aubrey, center; and Bob Jastrab, forward. 
Promising sophomores added to the 1954-55 Irish basketeers are John Smythe, center; Lee Ayottc, for%vard; and Joe Morelli, guard. 
Highlights of the coming court schedule are the Sugar Bowl Tourna­ment in New Orleans, a Madison Square Garden appearance against 
r\ I u, ana tne annual game witn arcn­rival Indiana at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame 
Basketball Schedule '54-55 .[ 
Dec. 4 AVisconsin at Notre Dame \ Dec. 8 Northwestern at ND Dec. 11 Indiana at ND •f Dec. 13 Loyola at ND Dec. 15 Purdue at Lafayette Dec. 18 Illinois at Champaign 
•••f 

Dec. 23 Minnesota at Minneapolis •I Dec. 29 Sugar Bowl at N. Orleans Dec. 30 Sugar Bowl at N. Orleans 

Jan.  3  Louisville at Louisville  
Jan.  5  Butler at ND  
Jan.  8  NYU at New York  .,-:  
Jan. 10  Holy Cross at Boston  \'  

Jan. 15 Northwestern at Evanston Feb. 5 DePaul at Chicago Feb. 7 Michigan State at ND Feb. 10 Bradley at ND Feb. 14 Butler at Indianapolis 
1^ 
Feb. 19 Tulsa at Tulsa 
;•'•• 
Feb. 21 Kan. State at Manhattan, 
Kansas Feb. 24 Marquette at ND 1^ Feb. 26 Loyola at Chicago 
1, 

Mar. 1 DePaul at ND Mar. 5 Marquette at Milwaukee 
Varsity Alphabetical Roster 
No.  NAME  POS.  AGE  HT.  HOME TOWN  HIGH  SCHOOL  CLASS  
Beams, Byron ..  T  19  6-4  217  Ada, Okla.  -Ada  -So.  
Bigclow, James  QB  20  5-11  170  Glenshaw, Pa.  - Shaler  _»___-_ - 
79  Bihn,  Joseph  T  19  6-2  208  San  Jose,  Calif.  ­ _ Bellarmlne Prep _  
62  •Bisccglia,  Pat  ­ G  23  5-10  190  Worcester, Mass.  _  . Commerce  -Jr.  
48  Bosse,  Joseph  ..  T  19  6-2  205  Lawrence,  Mass.  ­ -Central  Catholic  
4  Bucci,  Donald _  QB  21  6-0  180  Yotmgstown, Ohio  -East  
88  ••Cabral,  Walter  E  21  6-3  205  Honolulu,  Hawaii  -St.  Louis  -Sr.  
IS Callaghan, Leo 2 •••Carey, Thomas F. Carrabinc, Luke — Cooke, Larry Cook, Edward Cunningham, Thomas Davin, David Dumas, Jack *Edmonds, Wayne •Fitzgerald, Richard Frasor, Richard — Gaffncy, John •George, Donald Gcrami, Gemld Groble, George ™ _ 3 •••Guglidmi, Ralph 42 •••Heap, Joseph 57 Hcdrick, Eugene — 49 Hendricks, Richard 5 Hornung, Paul 45 Kaiser, David 89 Kapish, Eugene 7B Kegaly, John 40 •Keller, Richard 58 King, Jack 91 Lascli, Robert _ 65 < ^•Lee, Jack 72 •Lemek, Raymond 85 Loncaiic, Louis — 43 Markowski, Joseph 70 Martdl, Eugene 90 ••MaU, Paul (Co-Capt.) 64 McCabe, Pete  HB QB C QB C G E E G FB C FB E HB T QB HB G HB QB FB E T HB G T G G E FB T E G  21 21 19 18 21 19 19 19 20 21 21 20 20 19 18 20 22 18 20 18 19 19 20 19 18 19 21 19 18 20 19 20 18 19  6-1 5-10 6-1 64) 6-1 M 6-4 6-3 6-0 5-11 5-11 6-1 6-1 5-9 6-2 6-0 5-11 • 6-0 6-1 6-2 6-2 6-1 6-3 6-0 5-10 6-3 5-11 6-1 6-3 M 6-3 6-1 6-2  185 180 205 185 210 200 203 190 205 190 190 ISO 205 178 212 185 180 190 180 190 195 190 207 175 200 212 190 205 190 185 212 190 205 175  Passaic, N. J. Chicago, 111. Gary, Indiana ~-~ Ennis, Taxas Philadelphia, Pa. _ _ Pomona, Calif. . Chicago, III. .. Grand Rapids, Mich. Canonsburg, Pa-Chicago, III. Chicago, 111. .... Chicago, 111. Dunbar, Pa. ™ Lafayette, La. Chicago, 111. Columbus, Ohio Abita Springs, La. _ Canton, Ohio Danrille, III. Louisville, Ky. Alpena, Mich. Barberton, Oliio Chicago, III. Toledo, Ohio ... Weirton, W. Va. Clairton, Pa. Medford, Mass. • Siotu Cit>-, la. Battle Creek, Midi. _ Hamilton, Ontario —. Midland, Pa Chicago, III. Wilmette, III.  -Pope Pius x n _ _Mt. Cannel _ Gary Emerson — -Ennis _S.E. CathoUc - Pomona Catholic -St. Ignatius _ Catholic Central - Canonsbur^ -St. Gcorse ­-Mt. Carmel -St­ Ignatius -Dunbar -Cathedral - St. Ignatius _ Grandview -Holy Cross (N.O.) - Central Catholic — _ Schlarman —: -Flaget -Alpena - Barberton -St. Ignatius - Central Catholic -Weir - Clairton - Maiden Catholic - Heelan — -St. Philip - Cathedral - Mt. Carmd - New Trier  -Jr. -Jr. -Jr. -Sr. -Jr. -Jr. -So. -Sr. -So. _Jr. -Jr. -Jr. -Jr. -So. -Jr. -Sr. -Jr. -Jr. -Jr. -Sr.  
AfcDonnell,  John  HB  20  5-n  200  Sterling,  HI.  - Netvman  Catholic  
61  McMuIlan,  John  G  19  5-10  205  Hoboken, N. J.  -Dcmerest  -Jr.  
51  Mcnse,  James  ________  C  19  5-11  170  Hamilton,  Ohio  . Hamilton  Catholic  -Jr.  
19  Milota,  James  HB  19  5-11  210  Park  Ridge,  III.  . Fenwick  -So.  
73  ^fondron,  Robert  T  19  6-3  180  Charleston, U'. Va.  . Charleston  Catholic  
17  Morse,  James  __„___„  HB  18  5-11  195  ^fuskegon, ^licli.  -St.  Mary's  
Munro, James  E  20  6-0  205  Chicago,  111.  - St­  George  -So.  
Nakfoor,  Patrick  ™____  E  19  6-4  205  Lansing, Mich. _  -St.  Mary's  -Jr.  
77  Nicula,  GeoTge  T  19  6-2  180  Warren,  Ohio _­ -Harding  -Jr.  
50  N'oznesky,  Pete  E  6-0  LansdoAvne,  Pa.  - LaSalle Military Acad. Oakdale, L. L, N. Y. .  So.  
67 <••Palumbo,  Samuel  T  21  6-1  208  Cle\'eland, Ohio  - Collinwood  Sr.  
75  Pasqucsi,  Anthony  T  20  6 4  215  Chicago,  III.  ___ _  -St.  PhiUip  
41  Pinn,  Frank  ..  FB  19  5-10  190  Chicago,  111.  _ Mt.  Cannel  
37  Raich,  Nicholas  _  FB  20  5-10  185  Milwaukee,  Wis.  - Marquette  -Jr.  
74  ••Ready,  Robert  _  T  21  6-3  212  Lowell, Mass. ....  -Lowdl  -Sr.  
59  Regan,  Michael  _  E  19  6-2  200  Buffalo, N. Y.  -Caninus  -Jr.  
18 "Reynolds, Paul 16 Kigali, William 83 Scannell, Robert . 9 •Schaefcr, Donald . 86 Schram, Paul 33 •••Shannon, Dan (Co-Capt.)  FB HB E )-HB T E  21 19 19 20 18 20  6-0 5-10 6-0 5-11 6-2 6-0  180 175 190 185 212 190  Springfield, III. Chicago, III. South Bend, Ind.Pittsburgh, Pa. Cincinnati, Ohio Chicago, III.  ~~ ­ -Cathedral - Fenwick -Central -Central Catholic -Purcell -Mt. Carmd  -Jr. -So. -Jr. -So.  
12  Sipcs,  Sherrill  HB  19  6-0  185  Lotiisville,  Ky.  -Flaget  
69  Stanitzek,  Francis  „_.  G  19  5-10  200  Grand Rapids, Mich.  -Grand  Rapids  _So.  
22  Studer,  Dean  HB  18  5-11  ISO  Billings,  Mont.  .  -Central  
52 •••Szymanski,  Richard  C  21  6-2  215  Toledo,  Ohio  -Libbey  
60 •••Varrichione,  Frank  T  21  6-0  210  Natick,  Mass.  -Natick  
30  Ward,  Robert  HB  19  5-8  160  Van Dyke, Mich.  - German Twp.  
McCleOandtown, Pa.  
38208466  Wilson, George _  Witucki, Jack _  Zajaki, Benedict  Zervas, Thomas .  FB HB G G  20 19 20 19  5-11 6-1 6-3 6-1  185 185 205 205  Tulsa, Okla. Chicago, ID. Lakewood, Ohio  -Community -Casoa HaU . -Mt . Carmd -Lakewood —  -Jr. -Jr. -So.  
* Denotes Monograms Won  

Notre Dame Alumnus^ Sosember-Deceniberf 1954 II 
Irish Gridders Report From 18 States, Hawaii 

NOTRE DAME'S ALL-AMERICANS 
WALTER CAMP'S SELECTIONS 
1903: Louis Salmon (fullback) 3rd team 1909: M. Harry Miller (halfback) 3rd team 1913: Ray Eichcnlaub (fullback) 2nd team 1916: Charles Bacliman (guard) 2nd team 1917: Frank Rydccu-ski (center) 2nd team 
1920: George Gipp (fullback) 1st team 1921: Roger Kile>- (end) 2nd team John Moliardt (fullback) 2nd team 
1922: 
Paul Castner (fullback) 3rd team 
1923: 
Har\-c\- Brown (guard) 2nd team 
1924: Hany* Stuhldrcher (quarterback) 1st team James Crou-lcy (halfback) 2nd team Adam Walsh (center) 3rd team ,^ Elmer Layden (fullback) 3rd team 
OTHER SELECTION'S (Sec key to abbrcnations at end) 
1913: Ous Dorais (back) INS 1916: Stan Cofal! (halfback) LVS 
1917: Frank Rydzeu-ski (center), INS, NEA 1920: Roger Kilcy (end) INS 1921: Eddie Anderson (Football World) 1924: Elmer Layden (fullback) B 1st team; 
INS 3rd team 
James Crowley (halfback) B 1st team; INS 2nd team Harry Stuhldreher (quarterback) 1st team 
B and INS 1926: Arthur Boeringer (center), R, AP, INS NEA 1927: John Smith (guard) R, B. AP, UP, INS, NEA Christy Flanagan (halfback) UP, NEA 1928: Fred Miller (tackle) INS 
1929: Frank Carideo (quarterback) R, B, AP, 
- UP, INS, NEA Jack Cannon (guard) R. B, AP, UP, INS, NEA 
1930: Frank Carideo (quarterback) R, B, AP, 
UP, INS, NEA Marcliv Sch«-artz (halfback) AP, UP, INS, NEA 
Marty Brill (halfback) B Bert Metzger (guard) AP, UP 
1931: Marcliy Schwartz (halfback) R. B. UP, INS, NEA Tommy Yarr (center) B, AP, INS Nordy Hoffman (guard) AP Joe Kurth (tackle) UP, NEA 
1932: Joe Kurth (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS, P, NEA George Melinkovich (fullback) NANA 
1934: Jack Robinson (center) B, INS 1935: Wa>-ne Millner (end) B, UP, INS, P, Bill Shakespeare (halfback) B, INS 1935 John Lauter (guard) UP 1937: Joe Beinor (tackle) B, NEA Chuck Sweeney (end) AI>, UP, INS 1938: Joe Beinor (tackle) B, R, AP, INS, NEA Earl Brown (end) B, P 
1939: WlUam (Bud) Kerr (end) B, AP, NEA 
1941: Bob Dove (elld) B, UP, INS Bcmic Crimmtns (guard) R, P 
1942: Bob Dove (end) B, INS, NEA 
1943: Jim White (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS Angdo Bertcllil (quanerback) R, B, AP, UP, INS, P 
Crdghton Miller (halfback) R, B, UP, INS, P John Yonakor (end) B, UP, INS 
Pat Filley (guard) R, UP 
1945: John Mastrangelo (guard) INS 
1946: John Mastrangelo (guard) R, INS George &>nnor= (tackle) R, B, AP, UP, INS, FC, P, NEA John Lujack (quarterback) R, B, AP, UP, NEA, INS, FC, FW George Strohmcyer (center) INS, FW 
1947:.John Lujacks (quarterback) Unanimous Bill Fisclier (guard) AP, UP. FW. NEA 1st team; INS 2nd team; FC 3rd team George Connor (tackle) UP, FC, B Ist team: Al* 3rd team 
Ziggy Czarobski (tackle) INS Ist team; AP 2nd team; FC 3rtl team; NEA 1st team Leon Hart (end) FW 
1948: Bill I'isdierl (guard) AP. UP, INS, B Leon Hart (end) UP, INS, B, FW-R, P, NEA Ist team; AP 3rd team Emil Sitko (halfback) FW-R 1st team; AP, UP 2nd team Marty Wendell (guard) FC 1st team; FW-R 2nd team 
1949: Leon Harts (end) B, FC, FW-R, AP, UP, INS, P Emil Sitko (halfback) FC, FW-R, AP, UP, INS, P Jim Martin (tackle) AP, INS 1st team; FW-R, UP 2nd team Bob Williams (quarterback AP, UP, FW-R 
1951: Robert ToncIT (tackle) AP 1st team; UP 2nd team James Mutsclieller (end) UP 2nd team 
1952: John LattncrG (halfback) Unanimous 
1953: John LattnerT (halfback) Unanimous 
. Don Penza (end) New York Daily News Neil Worden (fullback) NBC Telciision Jim Sclirader (center) NBC Television Menil Maxxaides (guard) Paramount Nevw Art Hunter (tackle) FW-R, INS, Movie­
tone News, AP 2nd team, P 2nd team 
KEY 

AP—Associated Press 
UP—United Press 
INS—International News Service 
B—^AIl-Amcrican Board 
FW—Football Writers 
FC3—Football Coaclies 
R—Grantland Rice 
FW-R—Football Writers and Grantland_ Rice combined their clioiccs for LOOK Magazine starting in 1948 
P—All-Playets Team 
NEA—^Nei\*5paper Enterprise Association 
NANA—North American Newspaper Alliance 
1 Received tlic Hcisman Trophy as *'Out5tand­ing Player of 1943" 2 Received tlic Outland Trophy as "Outstand­ing Lineman of 1946" 3 Received tile Heisman Trophy as *^Outstand­ing Player of 1947" 
•i Recciveti tlic Outland Trophy as ''Outstand­ing Lineman of 1948" s Received the Hcisman Trophy as ."Outstand­ing Player of 1949" 6 Received tlie Robert W. Maxwell Trophy as "Outstanding College Player in 1952" 
7 Rccwved both tlie Alaxwcll Trophy and the Heisman Award as "Outstanding College Player in 1953" 
Eighteen states and the territory of Hawaii plus Ontario, Canada, are rep­resented on this year's edition of the Fighting Irish. Foremost on the list is Illinois with 20 men. One group, 14, are from Chicago. 
Ohio is second on the list with 11 candidates, and right behind, in third place, is Pennsylvania with nine. 
In fourth and fifth place respectively are Micliigan and Massachusetts. The former boasts seven hopefuls, the lat­ter, five. 
TO PUBLISH HISTORY OF IRISH FOOTBALL 

Following the forthcoming 1954 football season, a book entitled The History of Notre Dame Football \vill be published. This book will also include record data on all other sports partici­pated in by tlie Fighting Irish. It will have a limited printing, and this point is stressed. If you desire to be listed as a prospective purchaser, it is suggested you write to Charlie Callahan, Director of Sports Publicity, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Irish Gridders Make Extension All-Ameriean 

The following Notre Dame men have been selected.on the All-Catholic AU-American football teams selected by Extension Magazine: 
1946—George Connor, tackle Johnny Lujack, quarterback George Strohmeyer, center 
. Jack Zilly, end 

1947—George Connor, tackle Bill Fischer, guard Johnny Lujack, quarterback Jim Martin, end 
1948—Bill Fischer, guard Leon Hart, end Emil Sitko, halfback Marty Wendell, guard 
1949—Leon Hart, end Jim Martin, tackle Emil Sitko, halfback Bob Williams, quarterback • 
•1950—Jerry Groom, center 
Bob Williams, quarterback 1951—Jim Mutscheller, end 1952—^Johnny Lattner, halfback 1953—^Art Hunter, tackle 
Johnny Lattner, halfback Don Penza, end 
Notre Dame AtumnuSj Noaember-^ecembeTt 1954 

The O'Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts (left). Old College erected in 1843. 
Notre Dame 
By JAMES E. MURPm' 
Dirrclor of Public Information, University of Notre Dame 
The famed spirit of Notre Dame manifested itself some forty-five years before the "Fighting Irish" played their first intercollegiate football game in 1887. The University was nearing its seventy-fifth anniversar)' when its foot­ball team first drew national attention with its surprise victory over Army in 1913. Notre Dame's tradition of victor)' "what tho the odds be great or small" can be traced to a small band of French missionaries, led by the Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., who arrived at the pres­ent site of the University on Novem­ber 26, 1842. 
These first Notre Dame men found tliemselves in the northern Indiana wil­derness with only a few hundred dollars in capital. Overcoming frontier hard­ships, cholera and fire, they began to build a University. AVith bricks fash­ioned by hand they erected the first building now called the Old College. Today it is all but obscured by more than fifty campus buildings, the major­ity of them constructed in the last twent)'-five years. Notre Dame has ex­perienced a remarkable growth through die years as its founders dreamed it would. From the very beginning, when its faculty and student body could com­fortably assemble in one room, the small school was called the University of Notre Dame. 
A liberal arts college at the outset. 

The University with the French name, the Irish traditions, and the American will to win. 
Notre Dame gradually developed into the University its founders envisioned. Its 5,400 students are enrolled in five colleges—^Arts and Letters, Science, En­gineering, Commerce and . Law—and the Graduate School. Its distinguished faculty, which numbers more Protes­tants than priests among its members, consists of 560 scholars representing vir­tually every major university in the United States and Europe. Despite the great diversity of students from every state in the Union and a cosmopolitan faculty, Notre Dame students have al­ways exemplified a spirit of unity and loyalty that is the marvel of the nation. 
This oneness can be attributed, in part, to the way of life at Notre Dame. The majority of the students live in fourteen campus residence halls, frater­nities never having been a part of the campus scene. The students eat togeth­er in the University dining hall which serves 15,000 meals daily. This habit of doing things together, whether it be praying in the hall chapel or playing on a campus ball diamond, develops in Notre Dame students a loyalty to each other and to their alma mater that transcends the years and the distances that may later separate them. 
More important than the physical unity of the campus is the unity bom of religious ideals and a philosophy of education that have always been closely identified with Notre Dame. Religion never has been e.\tra-curricular, but rather an integrating influence in the life of the University and its students. The very name, Notre Dame—French for "Our Lady"—suggests the religious origins, atmosphere and ideals of the institution bearing her name. It follows, then, that Notre Dame has never been satisfied with merely developing profes­sional competence in its students. In addition, the University endeavors to inculcate in young men the moral in­tegrity required for responsible leader­ship. 
Because Notre Dame men have so often demonstrated leadership and the determination to excel both on the grid­iron and in professional and civic life, their alma mater has been adopted by millions from coast-to-coast. Many of these friends of Notre Dame are unable to assess the University's scientific achievements. Relatively few of them can evaluate the contributions that the University has made to the humanities. But all of them have recognized in this University \vith the French name, the Irish traditions and the American \vill to win much that is good and fine and worth preserving for generations to come. And so Notre Dame has become their school. Notre Dame belongs not to Indiana or the Midwest but to the nation. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1954 13 
^^ Official ^ Miniature Notre Dame University Ring 
The official Notre Dame rins and  
miniature shows the tower and dome  
of the Administration Building heavily  
modeled on one shank. The ND mon­ 
ogram is reproduced below with  
crossed torches in the background, an  
emblem of the ideals and attainment  
of Notre Dame. The opposite shank  
shows the seal of the University in high  
relief and below are crossed torches.  
The raised letters "University of  
Notre Dame" frame the stone, set in  
the ova! top.  
Also available is a miniature of the  
official size ring for the sweetheart or  
wife. This is an exact replica, 2/3  
size, of the large ring and has been  
manufactured to meet the great de­ 
mand for this sweetheart style.  Sidt  
Reverse Reverse  
The only stones available are listed in the price list below. Be sure to  OFFICIAL RING  MINIATURE RING  
specify the ring size in ordering.  Thrs ring Is octuol size. The illustration shows this massive ring which sym­ This ring is actual size. Both views show designs on shanlcs of this sweet­ 
bolizes the strength and dignity thot  heart ring which is now available. See  
is Notre Dame.  finger size tope below.  

PRICE LIST NOTRE DAME RINGS 
OFFICIAL RING No. 25754 (rcsular wcisht I OK) MINIATURE RING (lOK) Amethyst No. 1, dark buff top, faceted back $34.00 Amethyst No. \, dark buff top, faceted bock $19.00 Amethyst No. 2, light faceted top and bock 30.00 Amethyst No. 2, light faceted top and bock 17.00 Aquamarine, synthetic faceted top and bock 27.00 Aquomarine, genuine faceted top and back 19.00 Block onyx 25.00 Block onyx 1^.00 Blue spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back 27.00 Blue spinel No. 1, buff top, faceted back 17,00 Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 27.00 Blue spinel No. 2, faceted top and back 17.00 
Gornet No. 1, synthetic buff top, faceted back 28.00 Garnet No. 1, synthetic buff top, faceted back 17.00 
Garnet No. 2, synthetic faceted top ond back 28.00 Garnet No. 2, synthetic faceted top and back 17.00 Ruby No. 1, synthetic buff top, faceted back 27.00 Ruby No. 1, synthetic buff top, faceted bock 17.00 Ruby No. 2, synthetic faceted top and back 27.00 Ruby No. 2, synthetic faceted top and bock 17.00 Sapphire synthetic: Sopphire synthetic: 
Dork blue 28.00 Dark blue 17.00 Light blue 28.00 Light blue 17.00 
Tourmaline No. 1, buff top, faceted bock 27.00 Tourmaline No. 1, buff top, faceted back 17.00 
Tourmaline No. 2, faceted top and bock 27.00 Tourmaline No. 2, faceted top and bock 17.00 
IMPORTANT: For Determining and Recording Finger Size 
Take a band of firm paper same size as ring size chort. Wrop The prices listed do not include the 10 percent it around the finger firmly at the second joint, or around the 
Federal Tax. Be sure to add this charge in com­
largest port of the finger if the ioints are not prominent. Lay 
puting your order. 

it on the ring size chort below to get your exact size. 
Ring Size For Measurinft Finger 
Order Your Ring From NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE UNIVERSIiy OF NOTRE DAME . ._ 
3 «9STe*10 11 
Notre "Dame, Indiana 
14 Xotrtr Dante Alumnus, November-December^ 1954 
7)iTCCt0ty of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA-PAofii.x-XIalthcw E. Truddlc, '17, 914 W. Madison. Phocnuc. Ariz. Tucson—E. W. Besten, '27, 45 West Pennington Street. Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANSAS—For( Smilh—Joha Murphy, '28, 2311 South "S" St.. Ft. Smith. Ark. LlllU iJoct—James E. Madigan, '43. 2016 Sum­mit. Little Rock, Ark. 
CVLIFORNIA-Loj Anaelcs—Dr. Leo V. Tutseon, '42. 3741 Stockcr St. A'orl/iern-Andrew W. McMullen, '25. 640 Ford­ham Rd., San Mateo, Calif. .Jon DUco—John J. McClaren. '29. 4515 Tivoli St. 
COLOR,\DO—fl<rnwr—Judge Albert T. Franiz, '29, 949 S. Josephine, Denver. Soulherii Co/o.—William J. Donelan, Jr., '29, 1800 Mesa Ave.. Broadmoor, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT-Connfc/iVu/ r<iH<rj—John F. Robinson, '28, 18 Highland St., West Hartford, Conn. Nau^atuek—Walter M. Marut, '49, Higgins Rd., Cheshire. Conn. Southwestern—William Mulrenan, '37, 37 South St., Fairlicid, Conn. 
DELAWARE—Arthur A. B.-ium. '36. 223 Cham­plain Ave., Bellenioor, Wilmington, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLU.MBIA—Valentine B. Dcalc, '39, lOOI Connecticut A%'e. X.W., Washington, 
D. C. 

FLORIDA—For( Lauderdale—Rohtin C. Scott, '48, 301 E. Las Olas Blvd. Greater J/inmi—Edu-ard A. Kelly, '45, 13205 N.E. 11th Ave., Miami, Fla. ^orth Florida—Fred J. Rahaim, '31, 1636 Laura St., Jacksonville, Fla. 
Si. Petersburg-Tampa—Roy J. Deeb, '48, 1400 
I5th St. No., St. Petersburg, Fla. 

GEORGIA—/ll/anfo-William H. Rickc. '39, 3182 Pcachtree Rd. N. E., Atlanta, Georgia. 
IDAHO—Paul L. Kohout, 722 Washington St.. Boise. 
ILLINOIS—Aurora—Richard Reedy, '44. 475 Lake St. Central HKnoit-Michael J. Besso. '33, 408 W. Canedy St., Springfield. 111. CAiVojo—John J. O'Shaughnessy. '33, 10 S. LaSallc Street. Eastern Illinois—Les Fahey, '46. 1318 Harmon Ave.. Danville. III. Fox Valley—Georsc R. Schmidt. '29. 620 Sum­mit. Elgin. yo/iV/—Joseph H. Stengele. '52. 720 No. Ravnor Ave.. Joliet. III. Peoria—Bernard J. Ghiglieri, '44. 1st National Bank Bldg., Peoria. Rock RiT-er FoHf)—Donald G. Dewev. '50, 403 
E. Fifth St., Steriing. III. 

INDHNA—Co/iimcf X)ij(riV/—Jack Ogren. '49, 26 169th St.. Hammond. Ind. Eastern Indiana—il. R. DeVault. '32. 812 Marsh, Muncte, Ind. HJAor;-Robert F. Holtz, '38. 1021 Strong Ave.. Elkhart. Eransville — William R. Hennessey. '41, 1458 Greenheld Road. Ex-ansvillc. Fort ]t'ayne—Robert E. Kearney. '48, 1702 Pem­berton Dr. Znrfionn/ioKs-John R. Welch, '47, 4241 Guilford, Indianapolis. Ind. Michigan City—J. Eminett Miller, '24, R. 3, Box 419, Michigan City. Ind. St. Joseph roHo—Joseph Hannan, '39, 180* Greenwood Dr., South Bend. Ind. Wabash Vallr}—]. Francis English. 1410 So. Fifth St., Lafa>-ette, Ind. 
IOWA—fl« -Uoinw—Louis F. Kurtz, '43, 213 42nd St.. Des Moines. Iow3. Z)utinja«—Louis Rliomberg. '31, 1820 Delhi St., Dubuque. Tri-Cities (Davenport,- Rock Island, Moline. E. Moline)—William Bernbrock, '35, 2910 Forest Hill Ct., Moline. III. 
KANSAS—£aj(ern /foiuaj-John Parry, '49^"3I9 East 8th St., Topcka, _Kan. Satina—^John E. Carlin, '28, Mentor, Kansas. It'iVAi/n—George A. Schwarz, '25, 302 Orpheum Bldg. 
KENTUCKY--J. L. Willenbrink, '47, 3106 Plover Rd., Louisville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA—^rA-ia-rci—Robert A. Roy, '27, 309 Market St.. Shreveport. La. New Orfcuiw-William H. Johnston, '44, 5540 S. Miro St.. New Orleans, La. 
.MARYL,\ND—Ba/(i"mor«—James H. Murray, '41, 5113 Kenilworth Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
.M;\SS.\CHUSETTS—floj(on—Charles J. Patterson, '47, 22 Donlon St., Framingham, Alass. Pioneer Valley—^Arthur L. Demers, '35, 17 Gil­lette .^ve., Springfield, Mass. 
MICHIG/VN—BcrriVn Counlj'—Dr. Riul Leonard, '43, 215 S. Lincoln .Ve.. Niles, Mich. Blue Water fljVlriV/-William L. Wilson, '42. 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron. Michigan. Central—Dc. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 604 Willow, Lansing. Dearborn—Richard W. King, '37, 436 Highview, Dearborn. Mich. Detroit—Joha W. Anhut, '44. Anhut Hotels Co., 26 Peterborp St. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—E. Joseph 
Moore, '38, 48 W. Fulton St., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Hiawathaland—Raymond II. Ebli, '42, P.O. Box 
163, Escanaba, Midi. Iron Range—Robert T. O'Callaghan, '45, 635 McLeon Ave.. Ironwood. Monroe—Charles S. Golden, '48, 3 East Second St., Monroe. Mich. -Muskegon—^Jamcs Price, '46, 1594 Leahy St., Muskegon. Mich. Saginaw Koffo—Roger Hendrick, '43, 612 S. Washington Ave., Saginaw, Mich. 

.MINNESOTA—Bi</u(/i-5a/«-n"or—Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41. 114 Laurie Su, Duluth. Twin Cities—Paul Kennedy, '50, 4243 Fremont Ave.. Minneapolis, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI—James Dougherty, '49, 917 /Uing­ton. Jackson. Miss. 
MISSOURI—ATanjar Ci(j^(Mo. and Kans.)—Rob­ert Metzler, '44, 3535 Broadway. Kansas City, Mo. St. Lonii—George J. Conv}-, '43, 3016 Locust St., St. Louis. XIo. 
NEW JERSEY—Francis A. Mulhem, '38, 61 Hill­side Ave.. Glen Ridge. N. J. Cen(r<jf—Midiael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave.. Perth Amboy, N. J. South Jersey—James A. Webb, '48, 1945 49th St., Pennsauken, N. J. 
NEW MEXICO—Cedl E. Jordan, '40, 4114 E. Marble Ave., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK—Bu^o/o—Richard Thoen, '39, 59 Lincoln Blvd., Kcnmore. N. Y. Capital Dislrict—Dc. Bernard A. DufTy, '33, 336 New Scotland Ave., Albany. N. Y. Cenlro;-Philip Kelley, '50, 500 Loew Bldg., S>Tacusc, N. Y. Golden CiVcfc—George F. Fitzgerald, "23, 719 Main St.. Olean, N. Y. 
Mid-Hudson Valley—John J. Kuhn, '31, 33 Ham­
merslev Ave., Poughkeepsic, N. Y. 
Mohawk Valley—Anthony J. Giruzzi, '36, 201 
Post Office Bldg., Utica, N. Y. Nrto I'or* Cil)—James J. Clynes, Jr., '45, 122 
E. 42nd St.. New York 17. N. Y. Rochester—Robert C. Odenbadi, '41, 1000 Rock Beach Rd.. Rochester. N. Y. Schenectady—Or. John B. Phillips, '37, 873 Wright Ave., Schenectady, N. Y. 
Triple Cities—Gcorse J. Haines, '42, 126 Laurel 
Ave., Binghamton, N. Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA—Caroffna—Robert H. Perd­val, '48, 1355 Kings Dr.. Chariotte. N. C. 
OHIO—Jlron-Joseph H. Krakcr, '28, 597 Nome Ave., Akron, O. Conton-Louis L. Singer, '48, 718 McKinley N.W., Canton, Ohio. Cinrinnali—John Brodberger, Jr., '40, 3601 Flint Point. Cindnnati, Ohio Cleveland—Frank E. Gaul, '49, 1898 West 71st St.. Cleveland. Ohio. Co/umfciu-John R. Murphy, '28, Rm. 620 Hunt­ington Bank Bldg., Columbus. Ohio Dayton—Leo J. Condron, '49, 2092 Victoria Ave., Dayton 6, Ohio Hamilton—Jerome A. R>^n, '41, 744 Main St., Hamilton. 
Ohio I'n/fo^Russell B. Rickus, '34, 123 Gamble Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. Sanrfiuiy—Alfred A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, 3413 S. Columbus Ave. ro/e<*o—James Schoen, '47, 4329 Avondale, To­ledo, Ohio. Youngstown—^William G. Lyden, Jr., '30, 177 Brookline Avenue. 
OKLAHOMA—Oklahoma Cily—Edyyard S. Kav­
anaugh, '38, 4S09 No. Thompson, Oklahoma City, Okla. Tulsa—Leo P. Fagan, '32, Bradcn Steel Corp., 
P.O. Box 1229, Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON—William Meagher, '48, 632 S.E. Pea­cock Lane, Portland, Ore. 
PENNSVXVANLV—Cen/ro/ Pennsyhania — Donald .\. Schetug, '30, 510 W. Homer St., Ebensbuis, Pa. Eastern-Leo R. McIntjTe, '28, 30M Turner St., AUentown. £nV—Joseph Hipp, '49. 958 W. SLxth St.. Erie, Pa. Harrisburg—Louis C. O'Brien, '47, 2237 Adrian, Harrisbur^, Pa. 
Monongahela Valley^Louis W. Apone, '41, 401 
Market St., Brownsville. Pa. Philadelphia—John P. Dempsey. '49, 2840 Heller-man St., Philadelphia 24, Pa. Pittsburgh—Earl Bricger, '31. 1536 Beechwood Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. Scranton—John A. Kramer. '45. 121 Chestnut St.. Dumnore, I^. Wilkes-Barre—John C. Brady, iLD., '36, 228 Horton St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. ira/inim/iorl—WiUiam R. Downs, '10, 1013 Thompson, Jersey Shore, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS —RusseU L. Hunt, '38. 412 Prmidcnce St., Woonsocket, R. 1. 
TENNESSEE — Chattanooga — Thomas B. Owen, '35, 40O4 Wley Ave. Memphis—Joseph Signiago, '48. 9*5 Colonial Rd., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS—Daffoi-John Moran, '36, 5614 W. Han-o\-er Rd., Dalhis, Texas. Et Paso—William E. Ford, '43, 1216 Idlewilde Dr., EI Rrso, Texas. //oiu/oir—Paul J. Doyle, '36, 3722 Colquitt, Hous­ton, Te-x. San Antonio—Ralph T. Struhs, '50, 376 Readwell Dr., San Antonio. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37. 1017 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA-Charles M. Morrison, '38, Pump House Road, Richmond. Tidewater—VhtSip D. Russo, '49. 7314 Hampton Blvd., Apt. 2-B, Norfolk, \'irsinia. 
WASHINGTON—S/iotene-Dr. Robert Maher, '35, 512 Medical Centre Bldg., Spokane. It'es/ern—Charles LaCugna, '45. 906 20th Ave. No., SeaWe 2, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Eugene J. Ryan, M.D., '41, 516 Maefair Dr., Charleston, W. Va. 
IVISCONSIN-Fox River Valley—Ridard A. Stack, 
'48, 1306 W. Cedar St., Appleton, Wis. Green Boj—William F. Kerv%nn, Jr., '40, 414 E. Walnut St.. Green Bay, Wis. LaCrosse—Robert B, Hackner, '43, 412 RivoH Bldg., LaCrosse. Wis. Mikvaukee—\S\Vissm G. Doucette, '43, 2973 N . 49th St.. Mihvaukee, Wis. South Central—Maurice Leahy, '39, 4114 Meyers A\x., Madison, Wis. 
HAWAII—Thomas W. Flynn, '35, 239 Merchant St., Honolulu. Hawaii. 
FOREIGN CLUBS: 
Bengal, India—Rex. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C. Fit^erald, '94, (key man) Calle 8 Num 33 Miramar, Havana. Manila—Enrique Brias, '37, c/o Ro.xas y Com­pania, Soriano Bldg., Manila, Philippines. -Mexico City—Telmo DcLandcro, '37, Eugenic Sue 220. Me-xico City. Panama-William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 66, Ao­con. Canal Zone. Peru—^Andres Malatesta, '23, Cailloma 376, Lima, Peru, South America. Puerto ffiro—Paul F. McManus. '34, (key man) 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2593, San Juan. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1954 15 
appointed co-chairmen of this affair to be held in the Hotel Statlcr. Vice-President CftVRLEY HANNA is in ctiarge of universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Bishop Burke uill say Mass in Sacred Heart Chapel. This will be followed by breakfast at the Hotel Sheraton for all the families. NLVURY QUINN has been reappointed Chairman of the Retreat usually held on tlic weekend of Pas­
jiiMUM^§^&^ 
Akron 
Fourteen young men who are enrolled as freshmen at Notre Dame were guests of the Akron Club at a buffet luncheon prior to the opening of school in September. A film "Tlic Life of Rockne" was shown. W. J. O'NEIL ^vas cliairman of the event. 
Ark-La-Tex 
The organizational meeting of the Ark-La-Tcx Club was held at Shrcveport, La., on September 2, 1954. Officers elected were: ROBERT A. ROY, *27, president; VICTOR J. ^LARTZEL, *30, vjcc­president; and GEORGE J. DESPOT, '45, secre­tary-treasurer. 
Aurora 

The annual golf outing of the Notre Dame Club of Aurora was held on September 15 at the Crj'stal Lake Country Club. The tour of the links waS" followed by a delicious steak dinner. The outing was under the dialrmanship of TED ^VIEST, *27. Golf prizes were awarded to Dr. B. E. MOIS^VNT of Aurora and JOE CONERTY of Woodstock. 
The next event on our schedule w*a$ a dinner 

dance for members and guests held at the Fox 
Valley Country- Club on November 6th. 
—John J. Riley 
Boltimore 

Our annual family picnic was held this year, as usual, at Anchors Aweigh, on the Magothy River, on Sunday, July 25, 1954. Over 340 loyal Alumni and present students, their family members and "friends of Notre Dame" were on hand to celdirate tliis wonderful "family day." 
Due credit for the fine success of our picnic should be given to our vcr>' capable and untiring chib president, JIM MURRAY (m) and titc picnic committee composed of BILL LOUGHRAN ('29), FELIX MELODY ('23), PETE HAJEWSKI ('34), HAL L.-\NGTON ('38), PAT PUTNAM ('41), BILL KEARY ('54), LARRY McDERMOTT (*5I), JOE DUKERT and JLM BARRETT ('40), and to many others who contributed their time 
and efforts in making this the greatest picnic ever 
held by the Baltimore Club. 
At the moment, we are completing our plans for 

the Notre Dame-Navv weekend in Baltimore, Oc­
tober 30, 1954. 
ED O'BRIEN ('34) is General Chairman for tlie weekend, al)ly assisted by MURRAY WIEMAN ('49), Chairman of the rally, and BILL HART-SfAN ('41), Chairman of the cocktail party. The pre-gamc rally will be held Friday evening, Octo­ber 29, at the Emerson Hotel, ^fany notables will be in attendance, representing the Na^y, Notre Dame, Baltimore Orioles jVmcrican League baseball team, Baltimore Colts professional football team, Baltimore Bullets professional basketball team, and other religious and athletic groups. Following tlic game on Saturday, a cocktail party is planned from 5:00 to 8:00 p.m. at the Emerson Hotel. Music and dancing is scheduled for both the rally and cocktail party. 
Tentative arrangements are also being made for a group of our alumni and friends to attend tlic Notre Dame-Pcnn game in Philadelphia on No­vember 6th. 
JOE PONS, *35, our Vice-President, extends an invitation to all alumni, present students and their friends, to \-isit his horse-breeding farm. Country Life Farms, near Bel Air, Mar>"land. 
On September 13, 1954, JIM MURRAY and BILL LOUGHRAN held a get-together for RALPH LIGHTNER and TOM SHEEHAN, present stu­dents, and MARK BRADLEY, DAVE CROCO and AL CERILLO, who arc beginning tlicir fresh­man year at Notre Dame this September. 
—James E. Barrett ('40), Secy. 

BufFalo 
The Buffalo Club had an active summer as you can see from the following list of events in cliron­ological order: Family Picnic in June, Stag Picnic in July, Notre Dame Night at Buffalo Raceway in August and Golf Outing in August. The differ­ent Chairmen performed splendid jobs and the attendance at each affair uas ample evidence of it. 
At the Board of Directors meeting on Sept. 16 at the Hotel Sheraton, cliairmcn were appointed for the fall and winter season. First comes the annual Cocktail Party on the eve of Thanksgiving which will be chaired by JACK CONSIDINE. Next is the big Christmas Dance sponsored jointly by the Alum-Wives, the Campus Club and the Alumni. Mr. and Mrs. R/\LPH ELSE have been 
BALTIMORE—^Notrc Danie club's family picnic boasts huge 
sion Sunday at Dcrby-on-thc-Lake. Maury is plan­ning, from year to year, on the Retreat and he is gradually making progress. Last year, 20 mem­bers of the Club gax'c up a weekend at home to make the Retreat. Tliis is the largest number we have had to date. Maur>'*s ultimate goal is to fill St. Columban's Retreat House with Notre Damcrs. 
At the Board meeting, PRES. ITIOEN announced that >vc now have about $6,000 in the Scholarship Fund on deposit at the University. Since tlie Notre Damc-Na\-y game has been taken a^vay from Cleveland, wc have had a difficult time making monc>-. Every other year the Club sponsored an excursion to the game which netted a nice profit for the Scholarship Fund. We are on the lookout for new ways of raising funds. 
The Board of Directors decided to hold regular montlily meetings ever>* first Tuesday of the month at the Hotel Sheraton. A few years ago we fol­lowed this poIic>' and the meeting attendance sub­stantially improved. 
—Paul J. AUwcin, '49, Secy. 

Calumet District 
Now that time, and I ^vouId imagine a liberal dosage of liniment, has eased the aches and pains of the hearty Club members who climbed—mostly trudged—the hills, and hills, and hills of the Lake Hills Country' Club at our Armual Golf Stag, all Club members arc making preparations to attend our NIarian Year Communion Breakfast. 
The Communion Breakfast this year will be held at St. Margaret ^ta^y*s Church in Hammond. The event under the co-chairmanship of BILL RILEY and JIM PURCELL will be held Sunday morning, October 24th. Mass at 9:00 and breakfast to follow at 10:00. What with the Marian Year soon coming to an end, an extra effort is being put forth by the Chib to have tlie largest attendance of Alumni and friends that the Club has ever had .. . to honor Our Lady. 
Tlic Golf Stag, held July 27th at Lake Hills Country Club in St. John, Indiana, was blessed with excellent weather and a turnout of 60 mem­bers and friends. KARL HUFFINE, who coaches Bishop Noll's football squad during the fall, showed his heels to all and walked off with top honors with a low gross of 76. JACK OGREN chair-manned tliis event. TOM RADIG^VN ser\ed as Toastmaster for the dinner in the e\'cning. After dinner, Karl Huffinc entertained with the piano— assisted by candelabra, of course., 
.The season football tickets wliicli were raffled by 
 attendance. 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, Novembcr~Deeember, 1954 
tlic Club were won by E. E. Klein of Hammond and 
B. J. Lavery, Jr., of Chicago. —Emic HufTman, *49 
Central Pennsylvania 
The annual picnic was held near Altoona, Penn­sylvania, at the bcaudful summer home of ROB­ERT M. JONES on August 22, 1954. Approximate­ly thirty-five Ahimni, families and friends were in attendance. 
—Charles G. Hassan, Secy. 

Chicago 
The Chicago Club of Notre Dame has launched its program of activities under the leadership of JOHN O'SHAUGHNESSY, dub president. The customar>' round of golf tournament. Communion 
J. Breakfast, freshman reception and prep school counseling has kept the oflicers and members f active. 
GOLF OUTING —J.V.MES T. DOYLE and GEORGE HIGGINS, genial co-chairmen of the Annual Golf Tournament, turned in a smashing success in evcr>' department—even financial. 
Held on August 2nd, 1954, at Fred Snite's beau­tiful Elmhurst Country Club, the event was at­tended by over 300 alumni. TTie ^v•eathcr was favor-V able until 6:30 p.m. when a little California dew made ever\'body on time for dinner. The usual 
' golfers' delight—a delicious steak dinner—topped the day and tlic 33 prizes put the frosting on the day for the lucky winners. 
Ttic cup—emblematic of the club cliampionship— was won by JAMES D. CASEY with a low gross of 77. Runner-up was last vcar^s champion, ART ARQUILLA, with a low gross of 78. BILL FER­RICK had low net of 82 and HARRY HOFHERR had second low net of 89. 
Toastmaster for the evening was John Carmichael of the Chicago Daily News who %von the prize for high gross with a 78 for nine holes. Guests included JOHNN'Y DRUZE, FRANK (BLACKY) JOHNSTON, FATHER HOLDERITH, C.S.C., FATHER aVREY, C.S.C., BILL DOOLEY and HUNK ANDERSON. 
Next year's tournament, JIM DOYLE informs us, will be held on Monday, July 11th, 1955. You early birds can reserve that date right now. 
PREP SCHOOL CONLMITTEE—FRANK J. MIL­LIGAN has hb capable Prep School Committee raring to go for a new season. On Tuesday, Sep­tember 28th, the group met with FATHER LOUIS J, THORNTON, C.S.C., Director of Admissions for an up-to-the-minute briefing. Father Thornton was very entliusiastic concerning the work of the committee. He had the facts and figures to show its effectiveness in increasing the number of appli­cations to Notre Dame and in the better academic records of men entering the University who might otherwise have gone elsewhere. Any members inter­ested in ser\'ing on this important group should contact Frank Milligan at State 2-9000. 
FRESHM.VN RECEPTION—The Chicago Club tvas host to 220 entering freshmen and their fathers at its annual reception held on Monday, September 13th. The group gatltercd in the Cr>'stal Room of the Chicago Athletic Association and were ser\'cd refreshments at the close of the program. 
The tlieme for the part>' was taken from the inscription on Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame —^"For God, For Countr>*» and For Notre Dame." 
* JOSEPH D. A. McC(VBE opened the program as first Vice-President of the Club and welcomed the guests. FR/VNK O'DOWD presented that portion of the program "For God." FRANK &HLLIGAN, chairman of the party, presented "For CountrV*; and JIM MARTIN presented the final portion, **For Notre Dame.'* Following the speeches the film "HighUghts of the 1953 Notre Dame Football Season" was shown with comments being made by FRANK JOHNSTON, Freshman Football Coach at the University. 
PAT MONTROY and JOE PAGLURI were members of the committee. 
COMMUNION BREAKFAST—The Annual Com­munion Sunday of the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago will be held on Sunday, December 5th, at 
* ' ' the beautiful do^vntown Saint Peter's Church. A section of the Afaln Church will be reser\'ed for the Notre Dame Men at the 10 a.m. Mass. Fol­lowing Mass the Club will have a Conununion Breakfast at the LaSalle Hotel. ..The guest speaker 
DALLAS—^/Vn au.viHary to this city's Notre Dame Alumni Club has been formed by wives of club members. Auxiliary ofificers (shown above, L, to R.) are Mrs. Frank Crow-
Icy, president; Mrs. Invin Goldman, Mrs. 
u-ill be FATHER TOM BRENN/\N, SR., CS.C. JOE PAGLIARI is chairman and you'll be hearing more from him in the near future on reser\*ations. 
CLUB DUES—The Chicago Club charges $5 for annual dues. For this five bucks the club main­tains headquarters to serx'c you in the First National Bank Building, Room 649, 38 S. Dearborn, Tele­phone Andover 3-6063. It pays a secretary to run this office and supports all the overhead that goes with it. The ofiicc operates as an information center and clearing house for all Notre Dame Ac­tiWties. It even arranges to trade and swap surplus football tickets during these tr>'ing fall seasons. All this for just $5. You'll make JUSTIN OTOOLE, the Treasury Watchdog, very happy if you'll send your dues in now. Remember—^Just a fin for Justin. 
—George Murphy 

Cincinnati 
On July 27th a boat-ride dance ^^-as held on Johnson's Party Boat. The dance was highlighted by a 4-hour cruise on the Ohio River. ROHAN KELLY, chairman, reported that 75 couples were present. 
On September 2nd a picnic was given by the club members for the incoming nine freshmen and their fathers. A spirited ball game, ample refresh­ments and card games scr\'ed to acquaint the club members with the freshmen and their fathers. CHUCK LIMA, one of Cincinnati's contributions to TERRY BRENN^\N's freshman football squad, and his dad were among tlic freshman group. HOWARD ROH/\N handled tlie arrangements for tlic picnic. 
The first club meeting of the '54-*55 season was held at the Hotel Alms on Tuesday, September 14th. A cocktail party and dinner preceded the meeting which was called to order by JACK BRODBERGER, President. Announcement u-as made that JOHN CRONIN, '48, is to be cliairman of the ninth annual Scholarship Ball to be held December 28th at the Pavilion Caprice of the Netherland Plaza Hotel. Cronin then appointed ROHAN KELLY­
 Felix Doran, III, and Mrs. Warren Higgins. 
chairman of the patron committee, JOHN F. Mc-CORAHCK as chairman of the Reser\'ations com­mittee and DICK A'HEARN chairman of the Pub­licity committee. Dick incidentally is to be mar­ried November 25th to Miss Mary Jane Scliimansk! of this city. 
—John E. Cronin, Secy. 

Cleveland 
On May 12, 1954, the Board of Governors held their first meeting. The Board this year is com­posed of JACK COLLINS, '32, Chairman, and ROGER BRENNAN, '33, JOHN CURRAN, '51, VINCE DeCRANE, '50, CHUCK ROMER, '49. KEVIN S.MITH, '53, BOB STACK, *4I, ART WOOD, '52, and JOHN VENABLES, *3t. REV. JOSEPH \V. BUCKLEY is Chaplain of the Club. CHARLES E. ROHR, '30, recipient of the 1953 
'^fan of the Year'* Award, was unanimously se­lected Honorary President. 
Also early in May, the Notre Dome Law Asso­ciation, in cooperation with the Cleveland Club, held a luncheon for Dean Joseph O'Meara of the Law School. ROGER BRENNAN served as toast­master of the afi'air which was well attended by local representatives of the bench and bar as %vell as other members of the. Club. Dean O'Meara's talk outlined the scope and purposes of recent changes in the law school's curriculum and he commented generally on modem legal education. 
June 26 saw attendance records fall at the An­nual Rohr "R" Farm Stag Party. Started many-years ago as a means of ofiicially congratulating" June grads and affording them and present andl future students of ND an opportunity to mecc alumni of the University, the Stag affair has grown in popularity until this year when over 250 attended. Father Louis Thornton, CS.C , repre­sented the University. Highlight of the day was the "Old Timers w. Recent Grads" softball game, which marked a new high in competitive spirit. CHUCK ROHR, as usual, was a very generous host. 
The annual family picnic was held on August 13 
Notre Dame Alumnui, November-December, 1954 17 
at GUmour Academy. JOHN MENDENHALL and FRED FRIEND were co-chainncn. 
The club's golf party was staged on July 22 ^vith CREIGHTON MILLER and ART McBRIDE as co-chairmen. A large group turned out for the affair %\i»ich was played on the Lake Forest Country Club course. 
A football train excursion was run to the game between Notre Dame and Texas on September 25. The *'Presidcnt's Special" was again a successful venture and was under the direction of J. £. UPRJCHARD. Other trains sponsored by the club include those to the Michigan State and Southern California games. 
Plans are being made for the Father-Son Com­munion Breakfast and the Christmas Dance. 
—Robert F. 0*Mallc>-, Seo*. 
Connecticut Valley 
On Wednesday, September 8tli, the Conn. Valley Club held a "Frosh Dinner" for five new students from this area who entered Notre Dame this fall. The dinner was held at the Hartford Club and commenced with a chicken supper. Following the supper were the moi-ies "Notre Dame Today and Tomorrow" and "The Highlights of 1953." Presi­dent JOHN F. ROBINSON, '28, addressed the group of 40 who gathered for the occasion. Tlic new students arc Shannon Farrell, Donald Roberts, Robert St. Amand, Timothy McGce, Robert Dav­enport. Alumni present included TOM CURRY, '14, DAY'S H.AYES, '21. TIM MURPHY, '24, TOM FERGUSON, '26, DON TEAHAN, FRANK AHEARN and DENN^Y SH.^Y, '27, JOHN ROBIN­SON, '28, JOHNNY SMFTH, '29, ART McGEE and JOE ROBINSON, '31, FR,\NK FARRELL and VINCE TURLEY, '32, JOE HOLBACH, '33, JOHN LYNCH, '35, BILL WAELDNER and ART HIE­GEL, '43, JOHN BRIGHT, '44, LARRY WOODS, '48, DICK BORZILLERI, DON WILLIAMS, CHARLEY PAQUETTE, TED PAULDING and BILL GALLO, '52, JACK \nLCZ\'NSKI, NED BREWER, HANK McGANN, ED HADERER and JIM FLAHERTY, '53. CHRIS COHAN, BILL NIEMIEC, JR., JACK FALLON, RAY ONOFRIO and GEORGE BANKS, '54. Tentative plans for a smoker and dance to be held at the new Statler Hotel in Hartford were announced. 
—^Jim Flaherty, Secy. 
Columbus 
We have had a busy summer. In July we had our Golf Party at the Grannlle, Ohio, Coimtr>* Club. Cocktails and dinner followed in the Gran­\-ille Inn. RAY J. EICHENLAUB was chairman and did a fine job in seeing that ever>-one present had a good time. 
Our Family Picnic was held on Sunday, August 22nd, at the Radio Station \\'RFD Recreation Area. ^fany of the incoming freshmen and their parents were present and had tlie opportunity of getting acquainted with eacli other as well as meeting the families of the other members. RALPH GUGLI­ELMX and his parents were Introduced at the gath­ering. ED CANTWELL took some fine camera shots of \'arious family groups. GENE SWTSHER was cliairman. 
The Annual Stag Outing held as a send-off for tlie returning students was held September 9tli at the Falter Farm. HARRY NESTER was chairman and with the assistance of BUD MURPHY saw to it that cver>'one had plenty of eats and refreshments. Seventy-five members and guests were present. Spe­cial guests included two of the local sports writers, Tom Kc>'es of the Colmnhus Citizen and Joe Hill of Radio and TV station ^VTVN. 
The club Is sponsoring a trip to the Miclilgaii State game October I6th. As of September 20th, Chairman AL EICHENLAUB reported all tickets sold with many additional requests coming In cacli day. We want to tliank the Football Ticket Com­mittee for making tlils trip possible. 
During the football season members and their guests arc meeting for lunch at the Virginia Hotel each Monday at 12 o'clock noon. 
—John R. Muipfay, Pres. 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1954 
Dallas 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Dallas has 
launched what promises to be a very active pro­
gram for 1954-'55. 
At their first meeting of the fall season a club 
precedent was set in that attendants included 
undcrgrads and their dads as well as nc%\' freshmen 
and their dads. Oldtimers extended a hearty wel­
come to this group. Feature of the evening was a 
film of Notre Dame's 1953-'54 season. Plans were 
discussed for the ND^MU rally. 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. AViIliam F. O'Brien, Vicar Gen­eral and Pastor of the Cathedral of the Sacr«*d Heart, Dallas, has accepted the inntation to be the Club Chaplain. When tendered this invitation Msgr. O'Brien, longtime friend of the University, said "accepting tliis inritation makes me feel tliat at last I have arrived." 
All Notre Dame men cvcr>'where who will attend the Notre Damc-Southem ^Icthodist game on De­cember 4th in Dallas are Inrited to attend the giant ND-SMU Rally to be held the preceding night in the Peacock Terrace of the Baker Hotel. If, by chance, you attended the ND-SMU Rally held In 1949 when the two teams met in Dallas, then you'll know* what Is in store. Sparkling music, big-name entertainment and familiar faces all around you will make the night a memorable one. Tickets, only $3.50 per person, will be ax'ailable at the door. 

WARREN HIGGINS, dance cliairman, is all praise about the forthcoming annual Formal Christ­mas Dance sponsored by the Dallas Alumni. Site is the Peacock Terrace , of the Baker Hotel, date is December 29th. Tliis event has occn an outstanding social event for the past few years and this one promises to top them all. A BIG name band is being lined up. Tlie Peacock Terrace is a mag­nificent spot—and the price includes EVERY­TTIING! All out-of-iown alumni who happen to be in the \icinity arc invited. Tickets can be purdiased at the door. 
—Buddy Goldman, *36 
Dayton 

Tlie Notre Dame Alumni Club of Dayton, Ohio, has recently announced that a scholarship will be awarded to a graduating high school student of June 1955 for entrance in Fall 1955. This scholar­ship will be one for four years and is named the Robert F. Raney Memorial Scholarship in memory of ROBERT F. RANEY, Class of 1948. 
Early in the summer our club planned a golf outing but several dinicultics arose that caused plans to be postponed. However, a picnic was held on September 9th at Hills and Dales Park to whicli we Invited all Alumni, present students, entering freshmen, and their wives and guests. LEO CON­DRON, '49, our president, made the picnic plans very quickly and the Alumni responded well. The present year's freshmen attending were: Andrew Aman HI, Walter Schncble, Thomas Eisenhower and Tliomas Hinger. 
Tlic Alumni Club attended the Notre Dame-Michigan State game and brought with them an excursion train full of Dayton friends. Tlie diffi­cult job of handling the ticket sales and answering the many requests for tickets was given to AN­DREW AMAX, JR., who has done another fine job. 
—Bill MacMillan, *53, Secy. 

Dearborn 
On Saturday, August 14, 1954, tlie Notre Dame Club of Dearborn held its first annual golf party at the Plymouth Golf Club in Plymouth, ^fichtgan. Chairman JERRY WAYNO took charge of the de­tails and a total of 23 members and friends played golf. The rain and cool wcatlier of the day did not dampen the spirits of us golfers and evcr>'body had a swell time. A percli dinner was scrx'cd In the clubhouse after wc all had our fill of golf for the day. Tlic dinner was not only deliciously prepared, but there was actually more than enough to go around. 
On Sunday, June 20, the Notre Dame Club of Dearborn held its annual family picnic. Chairman JOHN KILBANE's efforts were not in vain as ap­proximately 75 persons attended the affair and en­joyed tliemselvcs to the fullest. 
Games for the adults and children along with prizes and free refreshments coupled together to provide a delightful day. In addition to the Club's membership and their families, a number of students brought their feminine friends and partook of the Club's hospitality. 
A general meeting of the Club's membership was held on Friday, September 3, in President DICK KING' S home. Plans were completed for the club's bus trip to the Notre Dame vs. Michigan State football game on October 16. 
Six new Notre Dame freshmen from the area were present at the meeting and w*ere given a 
FORT SMITH—^John Murphy is the new* president of the Fort Smith club. Shou-n on election night (L. to R.) are Vincent Narisi, retiring president; Father Butterbach, chaplain, and Murphy. 
"fatherly lecture" by President King as to their As has been in the past, the gathering was at the responsibilities to the University, their parents and West Haven Gun Club located just outside the city. Havana themselves. In addition to a 6ne meal, movies of the Notre 
—^Jcrry Gass, Secy, Dame Highlights of '53 w*crc shown. Besides the The Havana Alumni Club got together for a attendance of our more regular members, we had spcdal party when JUAN CINTRON and his wife with us two newcomers to the club, W. A. (BILL) were in town. The dinner-mectins was held at the 
Denver 
The Dcn%'cr Notre Dame Club is continuing the 
scholarship program with this year's \srinner being 
Frank Huerta of Pueblo. a\R L EIBERGER and 
BILL BRADLEY were co-chairmen of the com­
mittee for the football bcncflt with regard to the 
^lichigan State-Not re Dame game on October 16. 
The club celebrated with the annual picnic on 
September 12 at Our Lady of the Rockies Camp 
near Evergreen. Families and friends attended as 
well as alumni. The committee tvas headed by Dr. 
PHIL CLxVRKE and other members included Dr. 
JIM MONAGHAN, GERRY SHEA. DICK 
HODGES, ROBERT FLYNN and TOM GARGAN. 
Des Moines 
On August 16th, the Club held a reception in 
honor of REV. JOHN J. CW/VNAUGH, Director 
of the ND Foundation, at the Fort Dcs Moines 
hotel in Dcs Moines. Approximately 250 attended. 
The Notre Dame Club of Dcs ^foines is also 
sponsonng a special train to Iowa City November 
20th for the lowa-Notrc Dame game. Approxi­
mately 400 arc expected to be on this train. 
—Robert E. Drey, Sccy.-Treas. 
Detroit 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit held its first annual summer festival **Undcr the Stars" on the grounds of beautiful Botsford Inn, once the proud motel of Henr>' Ford, on Saturday evening, August 
7. A beautiful evening brought out a capacity crowd of Notre Damcrs for dinner and dancing out-of-doors. 
Club Vice-President JIM BYRNE and L.VRRY 
SMITH were co-chairmen of tlic tremendously suc­
cessful party. 
JOHN i\NHUT, club president and owner of the Inn, provided a beautiful setting in the spacious gardens. 
TIic club has run football excursions to the Texas, Michigan State and Southern Cal games. After the untimely death of LOU MALONE, ED GxVGE assumed charge of tliis activity. 
Tlie "Friendly Foes" football party is reported in the front section of this edition. 
Duluth-Superior 
Our small clique from the far north has been quite dormant for the past months, due principally to the absence of our prexy, BILL COTTER, Ml, who has just now returned home after a yciu"'s graduate study at M.I.T. 
PHIL HOENE, *38, has organized a luncheon meeting of the club on October 1st to make plans for a Communion Breakfast for next month and to discuss resumption of activities for '55. 
JIM CLIFFORD, *39, a tried and true member of our group was transferred by his firm to Phoenix, Arizona. He is with Scars-Roebuck. 
• —Jim Keough, *35 
El Paso 
The El Paso Club enjoyed a meeting in August at the home of JAIME MOR(\ in Juarez, Mexico. The club's secretary, GORMAN BROCK, is en­rolled in the law school at the University of Texas this year. 
Evansville 
The Notre Dame Club of Eransvillc held its annual barbcque on Monday night, September 13. 
BERGEN joining us from Loui5\'ilIe, Kentucky, and DOUGLAS GEORGIO, M.D., sctUing in Evansville after an extended stay in the U. S. Navy. 
—Don Haller, Secy. 
Fort Smith 
On August 1 \vc had our ofHccr election at which time the Club made plans to attend the SMU game in Dallas. It is our plan to charter two buses and to make the trip all in one day since it is only 270 miles and since the roads are so excellent. ^Vith the 100 tickets allotted our club by Cahill we intend to hold several • raiHes in order to raise money for the club and for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
New officers arc: JOHN MURPHY, '28, Presi­dent; DAVID JOHNSTON, '42, Vice-President; TOM HOIUVN, '31, Secretari-; BURLEY JOHNS­TON, JR., '40, Treasurer; LOUIS BELiVND, asso­ciate member, Director; ARTIE BERRY, JR., asso­ciate member. Director; REV. OTTO BUTTER­BACH, rc-clectcd Chaplain. 
Georgia 
New officers of the Georgia Club are: AVILLIAil 
H. RICKE, '39, president; PAUL W. SMITH, '47, vice-president; EDWARD M. ABRAMS, '30, secre­tary; and THO\L\S J. EGAN, '30, treasurer. 
The club held a meeting on August 13 at the Peacock Mlcy Restaurant. Guest speaker was Rob­ert S. Lynch, president of the Atlantic Steel Com­pany. He is a member of Notre Dame's Advisory Council for Science and Engineering. 
The monthly meeting in September featured FATHER VINCENT BRENN,\N, S.M., as guest speaker. Father Brcnnan is the club's chaplain. 
Committees for the ensuing year arc: Membership and Attendance, ED ABILVMS, chairman, assisted bv PAUL LE,\MY, BILL LYONS and ROGER SULLIV/\N; Finance, TO.M EGAN, assisted by BILL BECKLEY and OS&\R ZOSS; Religion and Citizenship, WILLIAM SCHRODER, chairman, as­sisted by GIL KIRW;\N and BOB KIENEL; Com­mittee on Preparatory School Relations, BILL DAILY, chairman, assisted by DICK DcGOLL\N and HARRY MEHRE; Publicity Committee, MI­CH<\EL F. WIEDL, chairman, assisted by PAUL R,VGAN and EDWARD MAGNER; Program and Entertainment, PAUL SMITH, chairman, assisted by BOB LUCGER. 
—Ed Abrams, Secy. 
Grand Rapids 
The first annual golf stag party was held at Cascade Country Club September 16. Attendance was well over 100. 
Clergy in attendance were: His Excellency Allen 

J. Babcock, Bishop of Grand Rapids; Msgr. Bryant, and Fathers Daly, McKenna and Van Bergin. Spc­dal guest, EDWARD "MOOSE" KR/VUSE. 
Lots of door prizes offered—big first prize was two game and train excursion tickets to the MSC-ND fray. 
DICK McCORMICK, chairman of the event, w^ .1 the right to have his name engraved on the trophy for low gross score. The trophy was do­nated by Dick McCormick. Bishop Babcock and Moose Krausc won prizes as members of the most fearsome twosome; the Bishop, a golf bag. Moose, what looked like two golf bags but what turned out to be a pair of golf shoes, size 13 plus. 
Committee members, in addition to chairman, trophy donater and trophy winner McCormick and Bob Linsey, ^vcre TOM GVMPBELL, DON LEV­.\NDOSKI, CHUCK DUFFY, and PREXY JOE MOORE. 
—Frank J. Geary, Secy. 

Tropicana Night Club in Havana. 
Hawaii 
The club held a beach party and picnic attended by about 60 members and their families on Sunday, August 22. Guests of honor were students who were returning to school this fall. Currently meet­ings arc held every 2'/2 to 3 months. The next scheduled get-together ^vill be the day of the Notre Dame-Southem California game and is, next to UND Night, the highlight event on the club pro­gram. 
—Pat Henry 

Houston 
The club's second annual summer outing' was held at the Pine Forest Country Club on August 
30. It was a joint function with the Ladies* Auxiliary. 0\-er 160 people attended including Notre Dame students. Golf, swimming, and a fried chicken dinner followed by dancing in the evening, were on the program. 
The club has scheduled a football trip to the Notre Dame-SMU game in Dallas on December 4. 
A meeting was held on September 16 with cock­tails and dinner at the Ship Ahoy Restaurant. TOM BRENNAN had charge of the affair. 
The Ladies* Auxiliary held a meeting on Wed­nesday, October 13, at which time films from the campus were shown. 
Idaho 
Arrangements are underway to hold a meeting somewhere in eastern Idaho, probably Idaho Falls, with Alumni in that area invited to review the possibility of forming an Eastern Idaho club. This has long been an aim of Prcs. PAUL KOHOUT who realizes that if the Notre Dame Alumni activi­ties in Idaho arc going to benefit the Foundation through closer local contacts widt business leaders throughout the state, then there will have to be greater club acti\*ity in areas other than Boise. 
Geographically the idea is sound because time and distance prevents eastern Idaho alumni from at­tending most of the functions held annually in the southwestern section at Boise. 
We are looking for%vard to welcoming Head Football Coach TERRY BRENNAN in 1955 when he will conduct the annual Idaho coaching clinic in Boise. 
—Phil Shea, Secy. 

Indianapolis 
The annual golf tournament was held at Hill­crest Country Club on August 3, 1934. JACK ELDER was chairman of this very line alTair. Guests from the University included MOOSE KRxWSE, JOHNNY JORDAN, BILL E.-VRLEY and JOHN DRUZE from the athletic department. Added prestige to our outing was supplied by FATHER TOM BRENNAN, FRANK LEAHY, BERNIE CRIMMINS, BOB MADDOCK and the co-captain of the Irish golf team, JOHN FOLEY. ED McNAMARA won the low gross. Other shoot­ers who pressed Ed were LARRY SEXTON, CL-ARK BARRETT, LEO BARNHORST, LEO KUER, HERB SEIDELL and our Archbishop, Paul C. Schulte. Blind par honors were divided between MOOSE KR.AUSE, JOHN FOLEY, DAVE CON­NOR, GUS DIENER, BILL GARVIN, PAUL RO.M^VEBBER and JOE ARGUS. 
On Septerjber 8 wc honored JOHNNY JORDAN, who had been selected as the Coach of the Indiana College All-Stars, with a small party at the K. of C. Clubroom. This affair was managed by the officers, JOHN -VVELCH, JOE FITZGERALD, LA^VRENCE TURNER, and JOE McNAMARA. Our guests were the membeis of the team, including DICK 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Noaember'December, 1954 19 
ROSENTHAL, JOE BERTRAND and BILLY SUL­
LIX'AN from Notre Dame 
We only hope that tlie iine turnout we have been 

receiving for our affairs will again be realized at 
our annual Communion Breakfast. This will be 
held the First Friday of December %\-ith FRANK 
R. FOX as chairman. —Lawrence Turner, Secy. 
Joliet 
PHIL CANTWELL, football coacli at JoHci Catliolic High, accepted a nc^^• position at St. Mar>''s Star of the Sea, San Pedro, California. A farewell party was given in iiis honor before .he departed. About 100 club members and friends attended to say good-bye. Last year in Joliet, Phil coaclied the Catholic High eleven to its first undf­fcatcd season in 25 years. All members of tlic Notre Dame Club of JoHet extend their best wishes to Phil for many future years of success in the fxiacliing profession. 
September 1, 1954, was a sad dav for the JohVt Club. MR. J. HAROLD LANGDON, *32, %vas killed instantly in an automobile accident about 15 miles from his Iiomc. ^Ir. Langdon was very active in his local club. He is surx'ived by his wife and four young cliildren. About 33 members of the Joliet Club gathered at the funeral parlor and said a rosarv- in deep respect towards Mr. Langdon. A Nfass will be said for the repose of iiis soul by Father Fabian, Club Chaplain, Februar>' 8, 1955, at St. Mar>*s Churcli, Joliet, Illinois, 6:30. 
Joliet Catliolic High School has acquired tlie scr\"ices of two former Notre Dame stars for coacli­ing duties. ERNIE ZALEJSKI, former fleet-footed halfback, has taken over as Iiead coach of the foot­ball team. Ernie starred on the Notre Dame team during their National Championship da>'s. LcROY LESLIE, recently discharged from the ser\ice, will assume basketball coaching duties early this fall. At tlie present time LcRoy is doing a fine job of coaching the frosh eleven at Catholic High. 
A Communion Breakfast was held October 3, 1954, to introduce the new coaclies, men recently returned from ser\'icc, and new members to the Notre Dame Club of Joliet. These Communion Breakfast meetings are held every other month during the year with only a short interruption during the summer months. Breakfast, a short meeting, and ND football movies were the order for the day after Mass and Communion. 
FATHER 0*DONNELL, CS.C . was the main 
speaker at a Columbus Day banquet sponsored by 
the Knights of Columbus, Joliet, Tuesday, October 
12. 1954. 
—^Joseph Stcngcle. Pres. 

Kalamazoo 
Notre Dame Alumni, both the legitimate and subu-ay varieties, held their first annual summer outing at the Gull Lake Country Club Tuesday afternoon and evening, September 28. 
ED KRAUSE, Notre Dame's athletic director, was accompanied by HERB JONES, business manager, and BOB CAHILL, ticket manager, both of whom spent most of the day explaining that ND-MSC tickets arc now as rare as Ptii Beta Kappa fullbacks. 
Another notable addition to the group from South Bend uas FATHER TOM BREN'NAN, an Irisltman w*ith strong family background in Kala­mazoo and a fine left-handed golf game. 
Golf took up the afternoon with DA\'E PRATT turning in low gross of 78 over the windswept course and Krause leading the visitors with a 90. 
Following the evening dinner, pictures of the Irish 1953 season were sliown. 
During informal conversation with the local club­men, Krause said flatly that Notre Dame's season would be made or broken at the Texas game whicli opens the ciard. 
*'They will be big and rough and anxious to ruin TERRY BRENN/VN's debut," said the Moose. *'\Vc have, I think, one good team. We won't be able to overpower them. If tlie ball bounces our way it will be a terrific break for both the younger players and Tcrr>'. Tliere isn't a breather on the schedule, but Texas is tlic key." 
In commenting on schedules. Moose noted that the Irish will be meeting Michigan State in foot­ball, basketball and baseball and the University of Midiigan in fencing. 
The program drew approximately 150 men. JIM 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, NovembeT'December, 2954 
DES MODfES—Father John Cavanaugb, C.S.C., was the featured speaker at the Notre Dame Club's meeting. Left to right are Fred Nesbit, Carleton Beh, Father Cavanaugb, Joseph ^Vbalen, and S. F. McGinn. 
MAHONEY, local club president, and ART MUL­HOLLAND, JR., directed the event. The club sent two chartered bus loads to the Notre Dame-Michigan State game, October 16. —Phillip J. Shields, '38 
Kansas 
The Kansas Noire Dame Club of Salina held a meeting September 21st at the home of JIM FOLEY, past president. JOHN E. CVRLTN, our new president, had just returned from taking his son, John, Jr., to enroll as a freshman at Notre Dame; the meeting started with his telling of \isit to tlie Notre Dame campus and the changes there. John met three of his old classmates who were also enrolling their sons. 
Our meeting last night was to put togctlier tlie Santa-Fc all-pullman train that will leave Salina for the Southern Metliodist game in nine weeks. So far half of this seven-car train has been sold. AVe realize now that we should have made a trip to South Bend instead of Dallas but tliat is for next year. Although our Salina club is small we feci that we have accomplished a great deal in one year. Tlie club has given a great deal of favorable attention to Notre Dame in this area and in another year or two should make itself felt at Notre Dame. At this time wc do not know what the Clubs at AVicIiita and Topeka are doing except that the Wichita Club expects to tic onto our spe­cial train for Dallas when it reaches Wicliita. 
Ne\s- ofHcers are: JOHN E. CARLIN, Mentor, Kansas, President; GEORGE COLE, 127 North Santa Fc, Salina, Kansas, Vice-President; NORB 
F. SKELLEY, 109 North Santa Fc, Salina, Kansas, 
Secretarj'-Treasurer. —^Norfj F. Skelley, Sec>*. 
Kansas City 
The Notre Dame Club of Kansas City is in full swing on tlie promotion of their annual football trip sponsored for the Notre Dame of Kansas City Scliolarshtp Fund. This year's trip is to the Southern Methodist game at Dallas. The Notre Dame Club of Kansas City's drive for the Scholar­ship Fund is offering a grand prize of two round trip first-class railroad tickets to the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist game, two football tickets, and two hotel accommodations. 
The Club's last two events were the Annual 
Picnic held on August 28 and the Freshman Send-
Off Dinner on September 8. At the Annual Picnic 
there were 109 alumni in attendance; this includes 
their friends. It was a grand success with approxi­
mately 35 students returning and their friends at­
tending. Tlic picnic was capably chairmanned by 
CHARLES McKEL\^, 1944. 
The Freshman Scnd-Off dinner was held at the Union Station Pine Room in Kansas City. The cliairraan was HERB ZIEGLER, 1944. Fifteen new students from the Greater Kansas City area at­tended w*itli their fatliers and this meeting was also a grand success as a turnout for the returning students and alumni of Kansas City. 
To benefit the Kansas City Alumni's scholarship fund, the Auxiliary* to the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City held a mink stoic raffle. 
More than two thousand chances were sold, and the profit totalled $858, Mrs. WILLIAM V. .Mc­LEE5E, auxiliary president, reports. 
The stole was won by Mrs. JOHN G. MEYERS, whose fatlicr-in-Iaw, JOHN R. MEYERS, was graduated from tlic Notre Dame law school in 1899. 
Mrs. DaWd M. Fritzlcn, mother of Jx\CK D. FRrrZLEN, '53, was raffle chairman. Top ticket sellers were Mm. ROBERT P. PENDERGAST, '35, and Mrs. JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22. 
Tlic Kansas City Club is planning a football trip to the Notre Dame-SMU game in December. The train will leave Kansas City on Thursday night, December 2, and arrive in Dallas the next morning at 8:30. Tlic return trip will be made leaving Dallas on Sunday evening at 7 o'clock and arriving in Kansas City on Monday morning at 7:30. The group will stay, while in Dallas, at the Hotel Dallas. For reservations call BOB METZLER, Logan, 1302, RUSS FARRELL, Victor 7078, or the Jerry Burke Travel Service, Victor 9740. 
—Russ Farrell 

Los Angeles 
The annual club retreat was held at Manresa October 15, 16 and 17. 
Tlie Notre Dame club's summer dance was a great success and held on August 28 at the West Side Tennis Club. 
The annual picnic, under the direction of ALEX SHELLOGG, was held on July 25. Everyone pres­ent had a great time. Alex was assisted by CHARLIE GASS, GENE CALHOUN, JOHNNY McARDLE and CHARLIE MURPHY. 
Miami 
The annual picnic was a big success. The high­light was a Softball game between Couart's "Wis­bangs" and Piowat>-*s "Pros." PRESIDENT KELLY, I. I. PROBST and PARIS CO^VART paid a visit to the Ft. Lauderdale Club at their regular meeting recently. They \vere invited to attend a meeting in Miami in August. 
A football party was held at Piowaty's house on September 23th. 
Monongaheia Valley 
New officers elected are: LOUIS W. APONE, '41, Brownsiillc, president; and CHARLES "BUD" MONTGOMERY, '35, Belle Vernon, secretary. 
New Haven 
I think the Notre Dame Club of New Haven— established only last March—has had thcs largest turnover of presidents of any ->-oung club in the his­torj- of the Alumni ^Vssoclation. At cnir organiza­tional meeting this year, BOB HALPIN, '34, was installed as president. But in June, Bob was called away by the U. S. Air Force for a tour at the Thule, Greenland, Air Base; he was later trans­ferred to the U. S. installation in Newfoundland. AL L/\^\TON, '35, then moved up from his vice­president's post to the top. Wc thought we were going along pretty smoothly, when—Wham!—Al was recalled by Aetna Life to the home office in Hartford, effective October 1. So, now DR. JOE CLIFFORD, '38, moves into the chair. Wei cer­tainly hope that his tenure will have a more quiet­ing duration. By the way, wc had a scnd-ofT dinner for Halpin in June. 
This summer the club held an outing at Mt. Carmcl, not far from Nmv Haven. Fifteen members, their families, and a few friends enjoyed the affair, which, luckily, fell on one of the few good Sundays Connecticut boasted this season. The Eager Beav­ers—led by AL L.\^^TON—defeated JOE KEN­NEDY'S ('32) Gay Blades in a 7-inning softball game. TIic 21 youngsters had themselves a gay time, and kept the soft-drink dispensers hopping all afternoon. As far as I could determine, BOB HALPIN and BILL PIEDMONT, '39, arc about tied in the stork derby. Both have 14 youngsters —seven each, that is. 
JACK WARNER, *43, has been a leader in all activities despite the trials attendant upon moving into a new home. Jack and his family moved from Hamden to the lovely residential area of Woodbridgc. —Joseph P. Bums, Sco'. 
New Jersey 
Club elections were held in mid-June at the Military Park Hotel in Newark. Tlicrc was a moderate turnout of Alumni, who besides \'Dting also ratified certain changes in the Club Constitu­tion. Among the newly elected Club Officers were ART MULHERN, '38, President; TOM GREEN, '48, Vice-President; PHIL SANDMAIER, '40, Treasurer, and TOM FARLEY, *50, Secretary-. JOHN KELLY, '40, and DR. PHIL PROVIS­SIERO, '30, were added to the Board of Directors. Among sundry matters discussed were plans to run both a train trip to Baltimore (Naiy game) and to Philadelphia for the Penn game. Last year's trip to Philadelphia was a fine success and D^\N O'NEIL and PETE QUINN, co-chairmen of the trips, look forward to another sellout. 
The club held its usual Freshman Welcome on September 9tli at the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark. This function brought out 163 interested parties, including 30 matriculating Freshmen and their Dads. The program was fine and constructive and was under the chairmanship of Councilman JIM FITZSIMMONS of East Orange. Brief but ex­tremely pertinent comments for the Frosh were given by LOU BURNS of the University Founda­tion, ART MULHERN, Club Prexy and Juan Norega of the Campus Club. Tlierc were movies depicting present campus life and adequate re­freshments. 
A few of the many Alumni on hand were TOM GREEN, DICK CORD/\SCO, recently out of the 
F.B.I. and now selling in New Jersey, BILL WALDRON, DAN PARISI, BUNKY RE.\GAN, JACK McKELVEY, PHIL SANDMAIER, JACK ^VINBERRY, RAY and PAT TROY, JACK PIN­DAR, JOHN KELLY, PETE QUINN, JIM GIL­LIS, and JERRY HALLIGAN. 
—Tom Farley, Sec>'. 

New Orleans 
On Friday, July I6th, a joint party with the student group was held at the New Orleans Ath­letic Club. JOHN a\CKLEY of the Alumni Office was principal speaker. 
At this meeting we reluctantly accepted the res­ignation or BILL REDMANN as Club Secretary-. Bill accepted a fine position in Government Service and has moved to Washington, D. C. 
To replace Bill, wc rejoined the office of Secre­tary-Treasurer and JIM SMITH, '50, Is doing a fine job in this joint effort. 
Coming events of the Club include a Victors-Dinner Dance October 9lh at the New Orleans Country Club; special Pullmans to Dallas, Texas, for the SMU game; Universal Communion Sunday, and the annual Alumni-Student Luncheon Decem­ber 31st. —Bill Johnston, Pres. 
New York City 
(Summary of Actixitles of the Notre Dame Club of New York May, 1954, through September, 1954.) MAY DANCE 
On Friday e\cning, ^fay 21st, the Club held Its second annual May Dance at tlie Forest Hills Inn, Forest Hills, L. I., N. Y. It Is an activity dedi­cated to the Notre Dame women (wives, daughters, etc. of Notre Dame men). Over two hundred persons attended the affair under the co-fJiair­manship of GEORGE OLVAN'Y, '48, and JOSEPH DITTRICH, '47. The fine orchestra that supplied the music was under the direction of J. WALTERS, another Notre Dame Alumnus. B.\SEBALL NIGHT 
In July the Club sponsored Notre Dame Night at Ebbcts Field. Following a fine buffet supper catered by the Harry M. Stevens Co. and ser\'ed In the Dodger Press Clubhouse, 160 members and their guests sat in a specially reser\'ed section of the ball park and watched the Brooklyn Dodgers top the Chicago Cubs. Beer %%-as supplied gratis by the 
F. & 'Si. Shaffer Brewing Co. This successful event was under the co-chairmanship of JOHN DUFFY and BUD MULVEY. GOLF OUTING 
The third annual Golf Outing was held on Tliurs­day, August 3, at tlie Rockville Country Club, Rock\'ilIe Center, L. I. Eighty golfers, largest number In the events history-, teed off imdcr per­fect conditions. JIM HE^VNY, chairman of the event, Is to be congratulated for the efficiency in which the number of golfers were handled as re­gards teeing off, locker accommodations, etc ; in fact all members of the Rockvltlc Club are to be thanked for their cooperation and hospitality. An excellent dinner was ser\'ed to the golfers that evening and a number of prizes was awarded. FATHER-SON FRESHMAN SMOKER 
On Wednesday evening, Sept. 8, at the Hotel Biltmore in New York City the club ran one of its most successful and important events: a get­togetlier for new freshmen and their fathers. Innted were boys from the entire Metropolitan area who will be attending Notre Dame for the first time this September. The program was under the chairmanship of BILL DUTER, '54, who was assisted by BILL FALLON and JOHN DUFFY and several members of the June graduating class. The program consisted of a short Introductory talk by Mr. Dwyer, a welcome by the president of the club, JIM CLYNES, a movie on the varied activi­ties and Colleges of the University and the High­lights of the 1933 Football Season. After this part of the program \vas completed the freshmen and their fathers were Invited to meet with a represen­tative student from each college of the University. In most cases this consisted of a recent June graduate. Represented were the Colleges of Law, Engineering, Arts and Letters, and Commerce. The groups met at \-arious tables in the room and a question and answer t^pe of program followed. So successful was the program and so enthusiastic were the bo>-5 and their fathers that the groups remained In session for almost an hour and a half. The consensus of opinion was that all questions pertaining both to life at the University and its various facets were answered in a complete and clear fashion. Questions ranged from "\\'hat is the University doing In the field of miclear physics," to '*How is the best way to travel to South Bend?" and "How many dates are we allowed?" JIM HARRINGTON of the class of '54 and champion pole ^-aulter conducted the question and answer session for the College of Engineering and did a magnificent job. KICK-OFF MEETING 
The first formal meeting of the 1954-55 season ^v•as held on ^Ved^esday e\'ening, Sept. 22, at the Hotel Biltmore.. Tlie guest speaker for the evening was JACK LAVELLE, former Notre Dame football star and current publicist for the N. Y. Giants baseball team and chief scout for the N. Y. Giants football team. Jack was his usual brilliant self 
GRAND RAPIDS—Dick McComiick, (right), cup winner at Grand Rapids aliunni golf party, gets trophy from Bob Linsey. 
Notr* Dame Alumnus, November-DeeembeT, 1954 
combining his fine humor with a detailed and com­prehensive report on the 1954 edition of the Fight­ing Irish. A question and answer period followed Jack's report- The Highlighu of the 1953 season film was also a part of tho evening's entcrtainmenl. The meeting was attended by over 175 members. 
—^Tony Earlcy, Sco*. 
Northern California 
The Notre Dame club of Northern California has a full fall schedule planned. 
Tlie club will recite the Rosar\- on the Rosarx-Hour over Oakland and San Francisco radio sta­tions the evening of Friday, October 29. 
A Christmas Ball is being planned for one of the major San Francisco hotels during the Christmas holidays—to coincide with the vacation return of present Bay Area students now at the University. 
The annual sports dinner preceding the Shrine East-West football classic will be held this year on December 26 at Rickey's Studio Inn, Palo Alto. 
Prior to the opening of school, a golng-away party for the students was held at Veneio's restau­rant in San Francisco, under :he chairmanship of club \-icc-prcsIdent RICHARD AMES. DICK BOWES, .Associate Public Relations Director at ND, was guest speaker. —^John O'Connor, Prcs. 
Ohio Valley 
Tlic Notre Dame club of the Oliio Valley held its annual fall meeting at Figarelti's restaurant in Wheeling, W. Va., Wednesday evening, Sept. 29. RUSSELL RICKUS, president, was in charge. 

Members voted to send a contribution to the University Foundatif>n from proceeds of a contest which they sponsored. Plans were also made for various late fall and winter actiWties. 
Appointed as arrangements committee for a Tlianks^Wng Dav dinner partv were BOB SINC;\­VICH, chairman. DICK H.\RVEY, WILLIAM MITSCH, TOM KIGIN, .ind BOB GRIFFITH. 
Appointed to make plans for a Xmas partv were BILL YAEGER. chairman. JIM HARANZO, JOE SARGUS, GUS VARLAS, and JOHN ROBINSON. 
Nicmbcrs also talked about holding a get-together at one of the member's hiunes on Dec 5. to watch the only televised Notre Dame game this fall. The Tlianksgiving Day committee will decide this defi­nitely. 
Three new alumni, recently arrived in the Ohio Valley, have joined the chih. They are TOM KIGIN, who is district manager here for the Fort Wayne, Ind.. Corrugated Paper Products Co. 
The others are BOB GRIFFITH, who is asso­ciated with a \Vheelinti bank. Union Federal Savings, and WILLIAM DW\*ER^ 
Attending the meelinc were JAMES HARANZO, '52; WILLLVM NHTSCH, '33: LOUIS EICK, '14: DICK HARVEY, '53; BOB GRIFFITH, M9; ED­MUND A. SARGUS, '33: GUS VARLAS, '47; JOE SARGUS, M9: JACK E. YAEGER, '40; WIL­LIAM HERRICK, '39: TOM KIGIN, '51; JOHN 
O. ROBINSON, M7: BOB SI.VCAVICH, '50; RUS­SELL RICKUS, '34; GEORGE SARGUS, '28; JOHN P. L.\UTAR, '37; WILLIAM YAEGER, '42; and JACKSON CANDOUR, '33. 
—Bob Sincavich 

Philadelphia 
The club sponsored a football trip to the Notre Dame-Texas gan.e. .A meeting was Iield on Sep­tember 14 to discuss the Navy game trip on Octo­ber 30 and the big weekend on November 6 when Notre Dame plays Penn. 
Phoenix 
The club's familv picnic was held at St. Francis Xavier Pool, August 14. CARLTON GILBERT was chairman an<l his committee consisted of ART ERR,\, DUKE RANK and REG BAIN. 
Pittsburgh 
The annual golf outing of the Pittsburgh Club was held September 8th at the Butler Counlr\' Club north of Pit:sburgh. We had a record 67 golfers and 93 at the dinner. PAUL HUDAK, cx-captain of the ND golf team, tied for low gross 
(72) with a guest, Tony Massi, 
We invited the students from this area who arc entering Notre Dame this Fall to our regular Thursday (September 16lh) luncheon and were 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, Kovemher-Decfmbcr, 1954 
HOUSTON—More than 160 attended the Houston Club's second annual sunnncr outing, a joint function of the alumni and their Ladies' Auxiliar>'. Shown (L. to R-) are Donald 
F. O'Brien, in charge of arrangements for the club; Mrs. Thomas F. Green, Jr., in charge of arrangements for the auxiliarj*; and Jerome W. Slater, Jr., an incoming freshman. 
happy that six men could accept. We also tvcrc 
host to FR.\NK SCHILLO, president of the 
Pittsburgh Club of Notre Dame. 
HARRY STUHLDREHER and JOE BACH of 

the memorable 1924 team attended and spoke 
briefly as did FATHER VINCENT BRENN.\N, 
our chaplain, and his uncle, FATHER MOONEY. 
—T. G. Gillespie, Jr., Scc>-. 

Rochester 
A Fall dance was held at Book-Lea Countr>' Club 

•>n September 11. Co-chairmen of the dance tverc VIN and JEAN DOLL.-\RD. The students turned out en masse for the dance. Looks like the Rochester Club is going to have some active alumni m the years ahead. 
VIC DcSIMON and wife Lois have a new addi­tion to the family. It appears that Vic and Lois arc assuring the futuro enrollment at St. Mar>*'s with five girls. ART CURRAN, JR., *50, has re­cently won tlie Democratic nomination for Surro­gate Judge In a hotly contested primary election and is running on the same ticket with JUDGE THOMAS ME/\GHER, another Notre Damer, who is the incumbent Children's Court judge. 
JACK WHEELER has left Rochester for the Holy Cross Seniinar>' at Nor.hampton, Mass. Best of luck to Jack in his new vocation, 
—Robert Shipworth, Seo'. 

Rockford 
The Notre Dame Club of Rockford held its first annual ^'Tearing of the Greens Golf Stag" Thurs­day, July 8th, at beautiful Forest Hills Country Club In Rockford. About 75 persons played golf, and approximately 150 were present for dinner later that evening. 
Among the guests present that day were BILL E.-\RLEY and BILL FISHER of tlie coaching staff; GEORGE CONNOR, Chicago Bears; and JERRY GROOM of the Chicago Cardinals. RED MAHER, '24, better known to his friends as *'Swivel Hips," was also a guest. Also present from Chicago were EDDIE DU*NNIGAN, his son-in-law D.\N GIBBS, '38, and JOHN MURPHY. Tlic master of cere­monies of the program was DAVE CONDON of tlie sports staff of the Chicago Tribune who was introduced by Guy Walker, the "Duke of Paducali" of "Wako of tlie News" fame. Short talks were given by Earlcy and Fisher, and the **plccc de re­sistance" was an address on nuclear physics and atomic energy by Professor ZIGGIE CZAROBSKI. Needless to say, Ziggie turned in his tisual sparkling performance. 
A good time was had by all, and wc hope that this will be an established annual affair. A 5tub­stantial amount of money was raised for our schol­arship fund. We have one boy at school now on a scholarship and another ono to enter this fall. 
San Antonio 
The August 24 meeting at Yusc's Restaurant at­
tracted 39 members, associates, and guests—a new 
record for attendance at a regular meeting. The 
club honored three of the five undergraduates at­
tending the university from San Antonio, the other 
two being unavoldablv prevented from attending. 
WILLIAM M. "TEX" ALLISON, '19, recovered 
from hearing kind words expressed aljout htm in 
letters to the club from fonner head football coacli 
JESSE C. H.ARPER and former teammate TO.M 
KING, now at Michigan State College as Dean 
of Students, and delivered an interesting commen­
tar\' on football days of yore at ND. 
.-\Iso featured on the program was the General 
Tire Company film "Tho Rock of Notre Dame." 
"Tex" was later the subject of San xVntonIo Ex­
press Sports Editor Dick Peeble^' column, Voice 
of tlie Peebles. 
The next meeting Is scheduled for October 5 at 
Damon's Restaurant, Profiting from the experience 
of the previous meeting, we will again show a film, 
Football Highlights of 1946, with comments by 
GEORGE STROHMEYER, 
Plans arc well under way for the trip to Dallas on December 4 for the SMU game. Two rail schedules are being oiTered members and fans, a 3­day Pullman trip talibed the "Gold Plate Special" and a one-day package coacli trip called the *'Blue Plate Special," both to operatu via the Kaly Rail­road, It is anticipated that 250 persons will travel to the game on these club-sponsored trains or cars. 
Former coadi FRf\NK LE/\HY delivered a fine speech before the San Antonio Quarterback Club at the Countrv' Club on September 13. Afterwards JOHN A. BITTER, JR., united Coach Lealiy to his home to visit with the six ND men attending the dinner. 
St. Joseph Valley 
Hie club inaugiu'atcd its 1954-55 activities with the annual golf outing, June 16th, at the Univer­sity course. Approximately 200 members and guests participated in a day of golf, refreshments, prizes, games and a genuine chuck-wagon beef barbecue. 
Tlic first session of the 3rd annual Tuesday Quar­terback Lunclicon Club was held the Tuesday bcfon; the opener with Texas. Head Coach TERRY BRENXAN* was the principal speaker and intro­duced his neu' staff of assistants. Other principal speakers at future luncheons are to Include: John CarmichacI of the Chicago Daily News, Clarence "Biggie" Munn of Michigan State, Stu Ilolcomb of Purdue, BERNIE CRIMMINS of Indiana, ARCH WARD and FR.VNK LEx\HV. 
The club held a smoker in the Morris Inn on Friday night before the Michigan Siate-ND game. 
Flans are being made for the annual Football Banquet, which will be held in the University Dining Hall early in December. 
St. Louis 
The annual picnic was held Sunday, .August 8. under the direction of this year's chairman, TOM McGUIRE. Location was Fitzpatrick's Leasurc Lea in St. Louis County, and was attended by approxi­mately 175 adults and children. Ball games, swim­ming, and just plain "talking" look tip the greater part of the afternoon, and was followed by a bar­becue. The affair ended with a drawing for at­tendance prizes. 
A luncheon was held on Sept. 13 for all of the new freshmen and their fathers in the St. Louis area, under the direction of BOB HELLRUNG. This luncheon was held in an attempt to give the nc\v' students an idea of what to c.\pect when they arrive in South Bend. BOB .McAULIFF, President of the Student Club at Xotrc Dame, addressed the new students, as did VIXCE FEHLIG, the "Man of the Year" award winner for 1953. GEORGE COX\ X President of the Club, pre­sided at the head tal>le. 
The club's full four-year scholarship to Xotre Dame has been awarded to James L. Krone, son of Mr. and Mrs. Burton L. Krone, Springfield, Mo. 
—H. L. Daum, Jr. 

St. Petersburg-Tampa 
\Vc have started a St. Petersburg-Tampa Alumni group. 
Our first meeting wa.'t held in August and we had quite a large turnout. Our next meeting was September I5th. —Roy J. Decb, Prcs. 
So. Central Wisconsin 
Officers elected at the UXD Xight meeting were .\L\URICE LE.\Hy, '39, President, 4114 Mevers Avenue, Madison; ROBERT CVSHIX, '49, Vice-President. 411 Xorth Ingersoll Street, ^[adison; and 
L. L/\AVREXCE LEXZ, '49, Secretary-Treasurer, 2502 Gregor>- Street, Madison. 
On Saturday, x\ugust 7, 1954, thirty-si.x members of the area X'otre Dainc Club attended the annual simimer outing at the Dodge Point Countr>' Club, Dodgexille, Wisconsin. Co-chairmen DR. H. W. CAREY and DR. W. R. HAMILTOX's efforts in staging the summer outing were well rewarded by the enthusiasm of those who attended. The program consisted of golf In the afternoon followed by dinner and bridge in the evening. 
The club has prepared and is following through with an active fall program in order to hold the continued support of the area members and friends of the University. 
—F. Lawrence Lcnz, Sec>'.-Treas. 

South Jersey 
The regiUar monthly business meetings have been held at Kenney's Restaurant in Camden at 8:30 
p.m. Sixteen X'otre Dame-Pennsylvania football tickets have been used for the benefit of the club's scholarship fund. 
Southwest. Connecticut 
A combined Holy Cross-Xotre Dame outing was held on September 11 at the Paterson Country Club in Fairfield. The highlight of the affair was a Softball game between former athletes of the schools. The Fighting Irish were led by NEIL KELLY, former catcher for Xotrc Dame and pro­fessional teams. 
Tidewater 
The Tidewater alumni sponsored a trip to the Xotre Damc-Xa\-y game in Baltimore. Approxi­mately 140 "Package Deals" were sold which in­
KALAMAZOO—.Vthlctic director Ed Krausc opens Notre Dame outinsj at Gull Lake. Left to right are Harve Freeman, Jim Mahoney and Father Tom Brcnnan of Notre Dame. Herb Jones beams approval in background. 
Notre Dame Atumnus, Sovember-Dectmber, 1954 23 
eluded a ticket to tlie game, one for the ride on the Old Bay Line Boat, four meals on the boat and a bus ride to and from the game. The group left Norfolk on Friday night, October 29, and returned Sunday morning, October 31. ED CUN­NINGHAM, *28, was chairman of this affair and handled practically all of the details. 
Effective the first of October, monthly meetings 

are being held the first Wednesday of every month 
in the Norfolk Catholic High School at 8 p.m. 
—Harr>- J. McKnight, Secy. 

Tri-Cities 
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of the Tri-Cities held their annual fish fr\- stag on Friday, August 27th, at the 40-8 Club on the Rock River in MoHne. JERRY CULLIGAN was general diairman. Fresh ^fissis5ippi River catfish with all the trimmings \v-as served, and tlie affair was a great success, socially as well as financially. There were approxi­mately 150 alumni present, and there were many guests from the areas surrounding the Tri-Cities. Attorney ED DALEY of Burlington, Io\\-a, won two tickets wliich were raffled off for the Iowa game. 
Our next event of tlie season will be the smoker which will precede the Iowa game. BILL BERN­BROCK, president, and R/VLPH COR\'N are mak­ing preparations for it now. It will be held in the Blackhawk Hotel in Davenport, and from ^vhat we hear, it is somctliing that none of us will want to miss. Out-of-town guests coming in for the game arc welcome to attend. 
In addition, our calendar of events for the rest of tlie year includes our Men*s Corporate Com­mumon Brcaklast on December 5th at Christ the King Chapel, St. Ambrose College, with CHARLES KING as chairman; our Student Luncheon at the Blackhawk Hotel on December 29th with ROGER NOLAN as chairman, and our Family Corporate Communion Breakfast on the first Sunday before Universal Notre Dame Night with TOM EMMA and BILL LAFFAN as co-cliairmen, 
—^Walter L. Dray, '40, Sec>---Treas. 

Twin Cities 
The alumni club staged a golf tournament and dinner-dance meeting in July. The event was held at tlie Town and Countr>- Club.in St. Paul. While the men played golf tlie ladies' enjoyed a bridge game. A roast beef dinner was served early in the evening. 
Incoming freshmen and returning Notre Dame students were entertained along with tlicir parents at an informal reception on September 9. It was held at the University- Club of St. Paul. 
—Carl J, Filers 

Washington, D. C. 
The initial get-togcllier of the summer season was an informal Sunday aflcmoon dance held in the Hatlequin Room of the Shcraton-Carlton Hotel on June 13, 1954. In addition to the members of the club, vacationing students and Fall fresh­men were invited. TIGHE WOODS, '33, did an excellent job as cliainnan of this affair. Inciden­tally, Tighc recently opened his own real estate office here in Washington and is. conducting the business under the name of Mcrryficid and Woods. 
Over the week end of June 18-20, 1954, the club held its annual retreat at Holy Cross College. Some 20 stalwarts and regulars at. tliis retreat attended again this year. L/\RRY SlOORE, '29, was in cliarge of the retreat and did a fine job. 
On June 24, 1954, the annual 'family picnic, under the able chairmanship of JOHN BRAD­DOCK, '38, was held at the Bclhesda-Chevy Chase Recreation Center. Approximately 14 families, totaling some 55 persons, attended. High lights were the usual games for the children and a Softball game for the older folks. 
Following the picnic the club held its annual golf party (Irish Greens Party) at Kenwood Coun­try Club. The affair was under the diairmanship of PAUL TULLY, '39. Although "MOOSE" KRAUSE and FRANK LEAHY were conspicuous by their absence, the competition with the mashie­niblick w*as keen. After the fain^uys had received a royal going over and some new sand traps had been excavated a tally of the scores showed the followuig prize winners: 
WALTER HAGEN, JR., '40. who recen ly moved to Washington from Ridimond, Virginia, replaced champion HAL RODDY, '33, ^vith a low gross 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1954 
score of 75. Inddentally, Walt represents Frank­fort Distaiers. SEVERIN BECK, *I6, retained his title as Best Senior Member with a score of 85. BROTHER BOB SCHELLENBERG, taking a play­ing lesson from WALT HAGEN on the way around, wound up \rith a net 69 to take the low net prize. DR. FRANK MURRAY, '36, received a prize for high gross. Actually, tlie prize was awarded, in absentia, as we could not hold up dinner awaiting his return. When last seen he was playing the seventh hole and had used up 80 strokes and a dozen golf balls. Frank, we hope you can make tJie dinner next year, it was delicious. The dub was proud to have in attendance NEIL O'BRYAN, dass of '58. Neil is looking forward to his next four years at the University. Inddentally, here is a prospect for the golf team. Ndl is a very con­sistent golfer and for his efforts he was awarded the prize for the most sc\'ens. 
FRANK J. MCCARTHY, '25, Vice-President of the Pennsylvania Railroad, was toastmaster of tlie dinner following the golfing activities. Needless to say, Frank's easy-going manner and quick wit made this part of the day's activities a great success. 
For the Fall season the club has many activities planned. Tlie following men have accepted chair­mansliips of the various events: 
DR. JAMES M. CORCORAN, '38, Na\y game r^Ily, October 29, 1954. 
"DUKE" MURPHY, '40, Navy game activities. At tlic last meeting of the Board of Governors, "Duke" %vas elected rice-president of the club lo complete the unexpired term of JOHN T. BARBER, '36, who resigned because his employment necessi­tated a move to Cincinnati, Ohio. Our loss is Cincinnati's gain. 
PHIL WELCH u-iU be in charge of student activities over the Na\y game \veck end. 
JIM O'LAUGHLIN, '42, my netv partner, will run a spcdal train to the Notre Dame-Pennsylvania game in Philadelphia. 
JOE BORDA, '33, is in charge of the annual raflile. 
DR. JOHN MURPH\% '36, is chairman of the annual Communion Breakfast held at Holy Cross College. 
ANDY AUTH, '34, will run tlic annual Christ­mas dance. —Howard J. Schellenberg, Jr., Secy. 
West Virginia 
Our number one alumnus and outstanding dti­zen, ARTHUR P. HUDSON, '95, and Mrs. Hudson were present at the Texas game and helped TERRY BRENNAN usher in a new era of Notre Dame football history. 
A chartered flight brought alumni and friends of 
Notre Dame to the Purdue game. Among them 
were JOE NEENAN, JERRY YORE, MIKE PA­
TERNO and BILL ALVLE. 
As for the future, we will have our annual 
cocktail party during the week of December 26th. 
We intend to have a teleraion stag party for the 
SMU game, tliat is, if some kind soul will volun­
teer his home for the party. 
—Cornelius T. Desmond, *5I, Secy. 

Western Washington 
\ On July 13 the dub took over the University of Washington Penthouse Theatre on an cxdusive reservation basis for the showing of "Charm is the Word," an Irish comedy. GERRY KANE was general chairman while JOHN ENGLISH was Tacoma chairman. 
The club partidpatcd in the annual laymen's re­
treats held at St. Martin's College this summer. 
W. H. TIERNEY, '01, continued the pioneering work of Uie kite revered GEORGE N*YRE in en­couraging all Notre Dame men to attend. 
Wiiliamsport 
The Wiiliamsport Notre Dame Club held its sec­ond annual send-off get-together for students re­turning to the University and re-elected WILLIAM 
R. DOWNS president for a third term. 
All other officers were re-elected: HARRY R. 
KRIMM, vice-president, and JOHN B. WILL­
MANN, secretary-treasurer. 
The dub's next event will be the annual Christ­
mas party for students and alumni. 
MR. DOWNS is making plans to sur\-ey all alumni to get greater partidpation in Foundation response. 
—Jack Wlllman, Secy. 

FRANCIS FARRINGTON, '20, died .etcntly In South Bend, Ind. 
GEORGE B. STOCK, '23, died in St. Louis, Mo., on July 29. 
wnni i^iassesJ^ III i GEORGE T. O'BYRNE, '23, one of the out­
Marriages 
Miss Barbara Ann Xfcifahon and DR. DANIEL 

J. ROURKE, '44, New York, N. Y., September 16. Miss Cornelia Marshall Peabody and ^MLLIAM 
E. O'NEIL, '« , Seattle, Wash., July 10. Miss Joan Marie Bunting and THEODORE V. OPPENHELM, '47, San Jose, Calif., August 21. Miss Joanne T. Jankowski and WILLIAM T. BONOTCH, '48, South Bend, Ind., June. 5. Miss Carol Hivcly and FRANK J. DEBIT­TETTO, '48. Miss Gloria Ann Stomerosky and FRED A. TAN­SEY, '48, Olcan, N. Y., June 26. Miss Rosemarv Fuesting and FREDERICK P. CROWE, JR., '49, Matoon, III., June 26. Miss Mary Jane McGann and JOSEPH E. HICKEY, '30, Notre Dame, Ind., June 12. Miss Christine Bikos and STANLEY TSALIKIS, '50, Gary, Ind., July 11. Miss Joyce Mae Liebig and \MLLL\M F. AR­GUE, '51, Notre Dame, Ind., August 28. Miss Marilyn Jean Zimmcr and RICHiVRD P. McCiVRTHY, '51, Notre Dame, Ind., June 26. Miss Tina Marotta and JOSEPH .\L MOSCHEL­LA, '51, Tompkins\ilIe, N. Y., August 19. Miss Eileen Ahern and ROBERT O. MURPHY, '51, New York, N. Y., June 19. Miss Mary Jane Smith and M. JA.MES TER­MONDT, '51. -Miss Celia A\nLt and ALFREDO PICCINI, '52, Notre Dame, Ind. .Miss Barbara Jeanne Veit and HARRY C. NES­TER, '52, Findlay, O., Sept. 6. Miss ^^a^y Clark and JAMES D. O'NEIL, '52, Dclphos, Ohio, Sept. 11. Miss Muriel Louise Francis and FREDERICK R. SCHLICHTING, JR., "52, St. Paul, Minn., July 24. Miss Helen A. Goepfrich and THO.MAS G. COL­LINS, '53, South Bend, Ind., June 5. Miss Esther Louise Allingcr and ENS. PAUL FARMER, JR., '53, South Bend, Ind., July 24. Miss Judith Lois Wulfmeyer and LT. LEON W. .MOTZEL, '53, St. Louis, Mo., June 19. Miss Susan Ann Whalea and LT. JOHN D. WHELAN, '53, Suk el Arba, French Morocco, July 10. 
Miss Mary Jean Yakimicki and DANIEL J. COLEMAN, II, '54, Notre Dame, Ind., June 7. 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND GEIGER, '32, a son, Kenneth Christopher, June 8. Afr. and ^frs. GEORGE DEMETRIO, *35, a son, Michael Kelly, July 26. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK J. FISHER, '35, a daughter, Frances Tlicrcsa, July 30. Dr. and Mrs. ARTHUR KRANZFELDER, '35, a daughter. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD LcJEUNE, '35, a son, Tcrrencc Francis, September 3. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS R. MAXWELL, '35, a son, Gary Lcc, September 20. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM K. BAYER, JR., '36, a son, Gregory David, June 3. Mr. and Afrs. ROBERT F. ERVIN. '36, a son, Da\id Anthony, September 14. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. SHERRY, JR., '36, a son, Brian Michael, September 22. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH DORGAN, '37, a daugh­ter, Denise Marian, August 31. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS P. COSGROVE, *38, a son, John Michael, July 10. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS X. SCILVEFER, '38, a son, Neil Kevin, July 4. Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR W. PHILLIPS, JR., '39, a son, William, March 23. Mr. and Mrs. J. GREGORY RICE, *39, a son, Gregory Joseph, August 28. 
Mr. and ifrs. GEORGE R. MEEKER, '40, a son, Philip Stephen, July 31. Dr. and Mrs. JOHN C. DONOVAN, '42, a daughter, June 17. Mr. and Mrs. J.\MES J. BYRNE, '43, a son, Robert Bellarminc, July 10. ^rr. and Mrs. JAMES H. FINN, JR., '43, a daughter, Mar>* Kay, September 13, Mr. and Mrs. NORMAN B. HASSER, '44, a son. Steven Andrew, October 29, 1953. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD R. McCVBE, '44, a son, John Richard. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. TO.MCIK, '44, a daughter, Kathrv'n Marie, July 10. Mr. and Mrs. C. J.\MES PARIS, '45, a daughter, Suzanne Lynn, September 27. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH H. DITTRICH, '47, a son, Joseph Andrew, July 23. Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM DUNN, '47, a son, William Joseph, July 27. Dr. and Mrs.' WILLIA.\I H. GARNER, JR., '47, a daughter, Lisbeth Jeanne, July 20. Mr. and Mrs. FRxVNK A. GIORDANO, '47, a daughter, Alvina ^faric, August 7. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. COSGROVE, '48, a son, Edward KcUey, July 14. Mr. and Mrs. HARRY A. DUCAT, '48, a daugh­ter, Kathleen Linda, September 10. Dr. and Mrs. DAVID S. GREER, '48, a daugh­ter, Linda Elizabeth, July 30. Mr. and Mrs. ROY B. LAUGHUN, '48, a son, Patrick Owen, June IB. Mr. and Mrs. LEO J. CONDRON, '49, a son. Mr. and Mrs. AVALTER B. HAASER, '49. a son, Frcdric Gardner, June, 1954. Mr. and Mrs. R^VYMOND HUMECKE, '49, a daugliter, Patricia Ann, August 25. Mr. and Mrs. PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49, a daughter, Mar>' Katherinc, June 19. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS M. KUPFER, '49, a daughter, Mary Louise, June 28. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK SULLIVAN, '49, a son, July 28. Mr. and Mrs. BERNARD L. WEIGAND, '50, a son, Michael Bernard, September 5. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. CLEMENCY, '51, a daughter, Mary Virginia, June 15. Mr. and Mrs. C. T. DESMOND, '51, a son, Micliael Joseph, March 23. 
Obituary 

THOM^VS H. BOLrVND, '94, died in Los An­geles in December, 1953. He is survived by his daughter. 
JOHN E. KOEHLER, '98, died in Chicago, lU., of a heart ailment on Sept. 18. 
GEORGE PULSKAMP, '98, former publisher and commercial printer died in Celina, Ohio. He is sur^'ived by his widow and sbc children. 
LOUIS S. DELONE, '03, died July 15 In Wayne, Pa. ARTHUR S. FUNK, '06, died May 7 in La-Crossc, Wis. 
JOSEPH W. STACK, '15, M.S. '18, director of the Michigan State College Museum since 1924 died August 17 in East Lansing, Mich., after an ex­tended illness. He Joined the Michigan State staiT in 1915. 
EDWIN H. SOMMERER, '16, South Bend, Ind., attorney, died August 20 after an illness of six months. He 'was a lifelong resident of South Bend. 
He was a veteran of AVorld War I and 5er\*cd for SLx years as chairman of St. Joseph County Sclecti\-n Serxicc Board 3. An active Democrat, Mr. Sommerer ser\*cd as deputy county prosecutor, county poor attorney, and Portage Township Justice of the peace. He was a member of the St. Joseph County Bar Association and was a charter member of post 50, American Legion. 
He is survived by his widow, son, and a sister. 
standing pediatric allergists in the nation, died in Corpus Christi, Texas, after an ilhiess of sc\*eral monihs. 
He ^^-as bom in Neosho, Mo., and came to Corpus Christi in 1940. Dr. O'Byme had practiced medicini: since 1925. He was a member of the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Medical Association, and the Corpus Christ! Pedi­atric Society. 
He is survived by his widow, two daughters, and three sisters. 
GRIFFIN JAY, '27, originator of the comic strip "Chip Grant" and cartoonist for the "Catholic Boy" magazine died in Los Angeles, March 30. Mr. Jay was known at Notre Dame as Jimmy Jay. Surviving are his ivife, two sons, one a Jesuit seminarian, and a daughter. 
.\L\RTIN V. CALLAGY, '28, Judge of the Bronx Domestic Relations Court, died August 4. Judge Callagy had previously ser\-cd on the Domestic Relations bench in 1945-46 by appointment of Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia. He had also serv*ed as a member of the legal staff of the New York State Public Seniice Commission from I942-I944. Judge Callagy was also secretary of the New York City Commission for the Temporary Care of Children. 
He is sur\-ivcd by his widow and three children. PATRICK E. CROWXEY. '29, died Oct. 1 in New York City. DR. VICTOR J. CANIZARO, '29, died of ad­\'anccd leukemia on July 27 in Biloxi, Miss. He is survived by his wife, seven children, and a brother, James, '28, of Jackson, Miss. DR. JOSEPH P. KEOGH, '31, eminent chest surgeon, died in Youngstown, Ohio, August 9. A native of Denver, Colo., Dr. Keogh began his med­ical practice in Youngstown. He served five years as a surgeon in the Navy during World War U. Dr. Keogh was head of the Mahoning County Tuberculosis Sanatorium for a time after the war. He was a Fellow in the American College of Sur­geons, and a Fellow in the American College of Chest Physicians. For some time he had been doing special work at Ohio State Univer^ty as an instructor in thoracic surgery. Suri'iving Dr. Keogh are his widow, parents, and three children. MYLES J. MULLEN, '32, died recently in Brook­lyn, New York. 
LOREN J. HESS, '33, M.A. '36, formerly teacher in the Social Service Department at Indiana University, passed away in Indianapolis, Ind., April 
24. He is survived by his wdow. VINCENT MURPHY, '35. former NA.AU high Jump champion, died in Cleveland recently. ^LVURICE P. LEFERE, '35, died August 2 in an automobile accident near Leonidas, Afich. 
\VILLL\M R. SMITH. '37, Notre Dame football captain in 1936 died August 21 in Hackettstown. 
N. J. He had been in ill health for a number of years. He became a member of the Irish \-arsity in 1934 and u*as a standout guard that year. &fr. Smith was forced to discontinue his football career the next year following a serious operation. He was general manager of a cinder block manufactur­ing firm in Succasunna, N. J. 
He is survived by his widow, a son, and a daughter. 
ENNIO ARBOIT, '38, former Notre Dame half­back and coach of St. jVnthony's High School fool-ball team died in Long Beach, Calif.. Sept. \l. He %vas a monogram winner on the 1936 and 1937 Notre Dame teams and was captain of the Irish baseball team. He came to L^ng Beacli in 1951, having previously been head football coach at Spaulding Institute, Peoria. III. 
Surviving are his u-idow and sev'en children. The family home was in LaSalle, III. 
Sympothy 

DAVID F. KORTY. '47, on the death of his father, June 12. DANIEL C. B.^RLOW, '4a,'on-the death of his mother, July, 1954. GEORGE F. STROHMEYER, '51, on the death of his mother, July 8, in an auto accident. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, J954 25 
50 yEAR, REUNION JUNE 10-11-12. 
1905 
4-5 yEAR. REUNION JUNE 10-11-11 
1910 

««!• «  Fred L. Steers  
I "  I I  105 So. LaSalle St.  
Chicago 3, niinois  
«M« 9' ' « ^  Paul R. Byrne  O'Shaughnessy BIdg. Notre Dame, Indiana  
laiil  Ron  O'Neill  
• '  I **  1350 No. Black Oak Dr.  
South Bend  17, Indiana  

AC yEAR. REUNION JUNE 10-11-12 
m f C James £. Sanford I T I D 1429 West FairaBut Ave. Chicago 40, Illinois 
GEORGE N. SHUSTER received an honorary doctor of laws degree from Columbia this past summer. He was cited as "scholar of English" and as "editor and autlior, master craftsman of words. . . . " 
1Q1A Grover F. Miller •*'* ' 612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
1017 Edward J. McOsker ' ' • ' 2205 Briarwood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
f Aje George £. Harbcrt I T I O 108 iforth Main Street Sycamore, Illinob 

JOHN LEXIMER (Ph.B. '18) has been signally honored by his Community by having a new grade school named for him in Escanaba. Michigan, John has served as Superintendent of Schools for many years and his Scliool Board took tliis way of vot* ing their appreciation. 
MAX KAZUS (LL.B. '18) is finishing 33 years with the Internal Revenue Department in Buffalo, Xcw York. Max is married and has two ditldren and two grandchildren. His address is 63 Favonia Street, Buffalo 7, New York. 
25 Notre Dame AJttmnut, NovembefDecember, 1954 
ALBERT M. HODLER, '23 

Recently appointed pennanent post­master of Portland. Ore., is former No­tre Dame freshman football coach and law school graduate, Albert M. "Duke" Hodler, '23. Duke was named for the permanent position by President Eisen­hower on Aug. 3. He was sworn in by another Notre Dame graduate. Circuit Judge Frank J. Lonergan. 
He attended Oregon State College and played football there for three years. Duke went to Notre Dame to pursue his law studies and while there served as frosh football mentor in 1921-22 under Knute Rockne. The famed "Four Horsemen" were coached by Duke in their first year at Notre Dame. 
After receiving his diploma he coached football in San Francisco. From 1934-42 Duke ser\'ed as deput)' district attorney for Multnomah coun­ty, (Portland) Oregon. 
Theodore C. Rademaker 1919 Peru Foundry Company-
Peru, Indiana 
55 yEAR. REUNION JUNE 10-11-12 

1(l9n Ralph W. Be^man 
lYZU 1609 No. Jeffeison Ave. St. Louis 6, Missouri 
Dan W. Duffy 1921 1101 N.B.C Building Clereland 14, Ohio 
Gerald A. Ashe 1922 39 Cambridge Street Rochester 7, N. Y. 
Wc are grieved to learn of the death of ^^^5. 

Margaret ^V. Haley, \%idow of the late HO\VARD 
HALEY, our beloved classmate, at her home m 
South Bend on June 19. Mrs. Haley was graduated 
from St. Mar^-'s High Scliool and St. Mary's Col­
lege at Notre Dame. HOWARD HALEY died 
July 26, 1953. We extend our lo\-ing s\Tnpatliy to 
Mrs. Kate Wellington of South Bend, mother of 
the deceased, and to all other members of the 
family. 
Congratulations to Bridget and LEO (JERRY) 

XL\HONEY of Tulsa, Oklalioma, on the birth of 
a daughter, Mar>' Kathleen, to tliem on July 5. 
JERRY ^L\HO^*EY, the proud father, is a son of 
our good friend and classmate LEO MAHONEY 
who went to his reward in 1935. 
GEORGE HENEGHAN and wife Phyllis of Ben­

ton Harbor, Michigan, (169 East Britain} were in­
volved in a serious automobile accident near Gibson 
City, III., in >Iay. George was hurled from the 
car by the force of tlic impact. Phyllis suffered 
four broken ribs and was cut and bruised. George 
was treated for a severe head injury in St. Joseph's 
Hospital, South Bend. Wc of '22 rejoice that the 
Hcncghans made a fine comeback from tlicir acci­
dent and we thank the Good Lord for their recov­
ery. George is with tlie Pearson Construction Com­
pany and has recently assisted in preparing esti­
mates for a new- two million dollar high school in 
Nilcs; also is helping design a large cold storage 
plant. Tlic Heneglians have a son, James, who is 
taking pre-med at Notre Dame. 
DR. Di\NIEL SEXTON of St. Louis attended 
tlie American Medical Association meeting in San 
Francisco last June. 
AARON HUGUENARD in May risiicd the Lake­
of-the-Woods region at the international border of 
Northern Minnesota. We did not hear that his 
fish catcli was hard to handle. Aaron makes a spe­
cial request for the present address of FRANK 
OTT. Wc last had Frank located at 233 South 
Main A\'c., Albany, N. Y. If that address is not 
good at the present time, Frank, please arrange to 
bring us up to date. 
We arc grateful to PIERRE (PETE) CH.VMPION 
of Cleveland for his fine letter of late July reading 
in part as follows: 
"I have been a father close to 30 years. As a 
matter of fact, I am a grandfatlier sbc times. Our 
son, Dave, is now li\-ing in Mexico City where 
Champion Rivet Company operates an electrode 
plant. Dave has four cliildrcn. Our daughter, 
Pats\', has two cliildren. Our Peter (17) is a stu­
dent at Gilmore Academy in Cleveland operated 
by the Brothers of the Holy Cross Order, and 
Billy (16) is attending St. Ignatius, Clc\-eland. It 
is good to hear about DAN YOUNG being General 
^tanager of that huge taconite project in Northern 
Minnesota. Dan told me of LEO MAHONEY's boy 
bnng ordained a priest in Texas. I am happy to 
report that all is well at our home; Agnes is fine 
and I recently succeeded in losing 20 pounds to 
make my present poundage 160." 
Our congratulations and ver>* best \xishes are recorded herein to these couples who are celebrat­ing tlicir Silver Wedding annix'crsaries: Oct. 9, Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND J. KE.VRNS, Tcrre Haute, Ind.; October 26, Mr. and Mis. THOMAS S. Mc-CABE, LaGrangc, III.; October 28, Hon. and Mrs. AL A. SCOTT, Los Angeles, Calif. 
FaUier GEORGE B. FISCHER, C.S.C., was va­cationing in his home dty of Rochester, N. Y., in late August. In October he w*a5 slated to give a mission in Fulton, N. Y., nortli of Syracuse. 
AVc arc very grateful to WILLLVM D. STUHL­DREHER (Ensign, U. S. Naxy, attaclied to the 
U. St. S. Boric, DD-7(W, c/o Fleet Post Office, Ne«­York, N. Y.), for the following letter he so kindly ^\-rotc to us under date of June 23: 
"Upon my return to the states from Caribbean patrol duty this morning, I received the latest Notre Dame ALUMNUS in the mail, and read with great feeling your remarks in tlie class notes con­cerning the death of my father. 
"I know how much it meant to mother and the family to sec sudi a sincere tribute to Dad in the magazine of the school he loved so mudi. Now, more than ever before, I realize that a good deal of tliat love stemmed from the many lasting friend­ships Dad made at the University through the years. It is so nice lo know, Sir, that the Class of '22 was as dose to Dad in death as it was in life." 
Father JOE RICK, C.S.C, Rdigious Superior of the Vicariate of Dacca whose address is 28 Zinda­bahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan, recently cele­brated his Silver Jubilee as a priest. His Reverence is now greatly concerned with the building of a Notre Dame College of Pakistan. Tlie college was started five years ago, when it opened with 19 students. Present enrollment is 300 students, and over 200 applications were rejected due to insuffi­cient room. Fallier Joe would welcome prayers and financial assistance from his friends. 
Louis V. Brufi:Kncr 1923 2165 Rivcnidc Drive South Bend. Indiana 
Through the cooperation of the secretary of an­other class, u-ord was received last summer of the marriage June 26 in Rochester, N. Y., of Germaine Curry Welch, daughter of Mrs. James Welch, to Carl G. HaselmaJer of Woodman Park. *23 men will remember the bride's father, JIMMIE WELCH, who died in the mid-*30*s. Mrs. Welch has one other daughter, Pat, who acted as maid of honor at the wedding. 
HI HUNT' S curiosity about the doings of LOUIS NAVIN prompted some correspondence with Louis, resulting in a ne\%'sy letter from said attorney. In­terested classmates can reach Louie at 120 W. Fiftli Avenue, Mitchell, S. Dak. Hi in his letter wondered xvhy Louis was not on the class roster. It now de­velops that although Navin spent practically four years uith the *23 men, he was actually graduated in 1924, due to his withdrawal from sdiool due to sickness. Louis has two daughters, married, two sons, and two grandchildren. He keeps one daugh­ter employed in St. Paul in the same office building as LINUS GLOTZBACH. To date no espionage reports have readied this desk on Linus' operations. Further extracts from the NaWn Journal: "See CrVRL FISCHER now and then .. . at the Capitol . . . Jx\CK PATTON, '27 or '28, is Pres. of Mitch­ell National Bank. . . . My brollier VIRGIL, '28, died in 1949. . . . Tried to find Hi Hunt when in Wavcrly, la. . . . Last saw him 20 vcars ago. . . . Say hdlo to DUTCH RIEDER and JOE NYIKOS." 
JOE NYIKOS is bus>* at presstime, campaigning for Portage Township Justice of the Peace. Except for a four-year inter\*al when the Republicans took over, Joe has been Ja>pea for sixteen years and is now bidding for Ms fifth term. 
HENRY J. L/\UERMAN of Menominee, Michigan has answered our inquiry about the check-writing Lauerman enrolled at ND last spring. The check-writer was a son of Hank's cousin. However, Hank's son has entered ND as a fresliman, his father reports. "Junior," whose name is not yet di\-ulgcd, has been prompted to make a personal appearance here—more anon. 
FATHER J. F. NOL/VN wrote an autobiograph­ical letter in July, in whidi he said among other things that he had marked the Silver Jubilee of his ordination in May. Father Nolan is pastor of the Churdi of St. Charles Borromeo, 61M- Main street, Sugar Notdi, Pa. He seems to have acquired quite a history of assignments at picturesque places in Pcnns^'U-ania such as Sugar Notch, Towanda, and Lackau'axcn, but at tlie moment is most concerned with the matter of Lackadough. "If you know of anyone whose consdcnce is catdiing up with them," he urites, "and they want to square things up tell them to send along about $20,000 and I'll certainly put in a good word for them in the hereafter. . . . We're as poor as the proverbial diurdi mouse here." 
J. ST/\NLEY BR/VDBURY, attorney at la.\\', with offices in the Second National Bank Building, Robin­son, Illinois, attended the Texas football game and left his card in the absence from this office of your plodding Sccrctarv-, 
1 aOA I^ev- l^omas A. Kdly, CS.C. lTZ*f Holy Cross College Washington, D. C. 
R.VYMOND R. BR.\DY lias announced hb asso­ciation witli Dean E. Flanders in tlic general prac­tice of law with offices located at Suite 627-628 Judge Building, Salt Lake Cit>-. 
HOWARD V. PHALIN, '28 
Howard V. Phalin, of 'VVilmette, III, 

was named last year to the post of 
Vice-President of the Field Enter­
prises, Inc. The company is the largest 
of its kind, publishing the AVorld Book 
Encyclopedia, which is sold to schools 
and libraries throughout the world. 
While at Notre Dame, Howard 

taught Math and English to Minims 
in St. Edward's Hall. He sensed as 
Vice-President of tlie Class of 1928. 
During AVorld W^ar II Howard at­

tained the rank of Lieutenant Com­
mander in the Nav>'. In 1946 he was 
appointed assistant sales manager of 
Field Enterprises, Inc. Two years later 
he was made general sales manager. 
Howard is a member of the Knights 

of Columbus, the Holy Name Society, 
and the Merchants and Manufacturers 
Club. He regards an audience with 
Pope Pius XII in 1950 as his greatest 
thrill. 
Howard married Evangeline Peter­son in the Log Chapel on Jan. 17, 1931. 
m 09 E Jotn P. Hurley I T^ D 1218 City Park Avenue Toledo, Ohio 
Bo>-s—It's here! Our tliirtieth Is coming up this June. The good Lord has spared 338 of us out of 
364. We all know the class of '25 has been known to break all records—starting in our college days with the best *'Domc," a Notre Dame Dally which was heavily staffed with '25ers and H/\RRY FLAX­NERY, '2-4, as its editor followed by the fabulous and unpredictable HARRY A. McGUIRE, »25, up to that time the 1924 Four Horseman Team u^as tops and after 30 years It's still the best remem­bered. It is the onlv ND team that has played In the Pasadena Rose Bowl. JIM ARMSTRONG, '25, 
30 VBASLflEVHiOK 
JUNE lOrll i i 

as Alumni Secretary, has helped to make the Alumni Association the en\-y of every university in the country. Notre Dame's Development program got its start right after we got our first jobs (only a coincidence, of course). Our 25th Reunion was the bestest up to that time, because we came thru with the "mostest." The rest of the classes have had new batteries put in their hearing aids and retired to their wheel chairs after their 25th but not the class of 1925. Science has added years to the span of life so let's not let the AMA dowok— Let's make our 30th bigger than our 23th. IT CAN BE DONE. 
DON MILLER will be there to preside over the largest and peppiest 30th reunion that has ever crowded into the Faculty Dining Hall. A couple of Don's daughters will be taking the big step about that time but he has already seen to it that those dates don't conflict with Jime 10, 11 and 12. 
GEORGE A. BISCHOFF wiU leave his Traveler's Insurance Office in Indianapolis for the weekend and will personally sec that everyone in the Indiana capital will be on deck. He promised this when your secretary saw him and his son at the Texas game. BILL CERNEY, JOHN DROEGE and CLARENCE HARDING will head up the South Bend crowd. I talked to these boys at the Stadium Alumni Booth. They were terrific hosts five >-ears ago so you can expect bigger and better things in '55. PAUL S,AGSTETTER who is manager of Sagstettcr General Tire Company in Fort Wayne will dig out e^'cry *25 Hoosler that is left after the Indianapolis and South Bend gang make their contacts. Paul was at the Texas game and it looks like he and GEORGE LOUGH­LIN have really taken ad%-antage of that diWdend span of years, because the>' look younger than any in our class. George Loughlin and LEO POWERS uill handle the Chicago area. HARRY STUHL­DREHER while covering the country for U. S. Steel will dig them out of the far comers. Harry was in Toledo last Fall and we talked about this. 
HANK ^VURZER, our Treasurer, will form a Committee in that State where the tall com and tough football opponents grow. HENRY McAD.^fS and BILL BELL will handle the upper "Sew York area and JOHN TRAYNOR and JOHN BARTLEY will take over tlie >fetropolitan area. HUGH CULLINAN, that stinker from Frisco, had better be on deck—he missed our 25th as did BUTCH HAECKER but they know w*hat they missed and plan to be back because "This Is Y'our Life" and with Notre Dame's youngest president to say noth­ing of the nation's youngest coach—you will find Perpetual Youth on the Campus—your -wiSc won't recognize •j-ou when you come home—bearing ^t s for the grandchildren. 
GIL SCHAEFER of Detroit has been appointed Class Chairman of class reunion attendance for the entire class. He, along with FRANK HOWLAND and RAY CUNNINGHAM Avill handle the Detroit area. Another first for *25 was that our class started the vogue of monogram members as valedictorian of their class. Ray was our \-aledictorian in case you forgot—that pleased Rockne no end—and it's still going on—PAUL HARRINGTON '26, got it the next year. 
BILL MERRI.MAN, BARNEY MacNAB and BILL HURLEY will help out at the reunion itself, as they were the class ofSccrs that served ^%'ith DON MILLER. 
I saw BERNIE LIVERGOOD with his charming %vife at the Texas ^mie. REUBEN MOMSEN went back to Texas with a big smile and EDDIE POLHAUS was looking in the pink of condition. 
^VALLY CYR stopped in to see me but I was out of town. I'm sorry we missed seeing each other. Try it again sometime, ^Vally. 
How about a little football reunion at the North Carolina game? You can still get tickets for this game. We will have some kind of a badge or flower to identify yourself in case you have put on a few pounds and lost your hair. 
Tvvent>'-SLX of our classmates have gone to their re\^*ard. Please mail us a dollar for Masses for these fello\v-s and drop us a line about yourself. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, NovembeT-Deeember, 1954 27 
Three Notre Dame alumni and one from Purdue have recently formed the G&G Phar­macal Co., Inc., 3119 Mishawaka Ave., South Bend, Ind. Officers are Robert V. Gilroy, '49, president; Joseph F. Haas, '47, vicc-pres.; David H. Gorrell, '49, sec'y.; and David 
L. Forsythe (Purdue), treas. This group supplies a large part of the drugs, pharmaceuti­
cals and surgical equipment throughout the Alichiana area. L. to R. (above photo): For­sythe, Haas, Gilroy, and Gorrell. 
Wc want to build up that Mass Treasury'. Send yovir dollar or more to H/\XK WURZER, c/o Blackhawk Hotels, Davenport, Iowa, for our Mass Fund. 
Our 30tli Reunion will break all attendance rec­ords—IT CAN BE DONE IF YOU COME. Write and tell us tliat you will be there—wc will both be glad! 
100X. Jol"i J- Ryan I TZO 2434 Grccnlcaf Avenue Chicago 45, Illinois 
Tliis column will start with the thanks of the secretary to the Athletic Department, Due to the fact that they usually scliedule a few football games at home each fall, the secretary' is able to get a little ncx^ of the members of tlie Class of '26. Other>vi5e wc might again have a blank column. 
At the Texas game, wc bumped into JIM PExVRSOX who told us that LEFTY T.-\TIL\.M is now located in Flint, Michigan. For tlie first time since graduation, to the best of my knowledge, I saw JOHN McMULLAN, the old tackle, who looks like he could still do a pretty good job at the position. FILVN CROWLEY sat behind us at the Texas game and JOE QUINLAN was nearby. LOU CODY did not have his wife sitting with him at the Texas game, but she did show up for the Purdue game. 
At half-time during the Purdue game, in the dis­tance wc saw JERRY MORSCHES stand up. How­ever he w'ss too far away to holler at. I get regu­lar reports on him as he handles any insurance problems that develop for my son who lives in Fort ^Va^•ne. 
\Ve missed BOB CL:\REY and his wife at tlic Texas and Purdue games and I am afraid tliat wc won't see him at the Michigan State game as tlie *'ponies" will still be running at Hawthorne on that date if I recall their schedule. Bob, as you know, is managing director of that track and from %\'hat %vc have read in the newspapers is doing a very wonderful Job. 
Wc hope that the later games in tlic year, there will be otlier '26ers show up but ^vc would like to have some of them write in with some ideas for our 30th reunion which is not very far away. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnui, Xovember-JJecember, 2954 
EDWARD A. FALLON has formed a partncnship in law under tlie firm name of Shcils, Halter, Mc-Goldrick and Fallon with ofliccs located at 11 Broadway, New York City. 
MSGR. JOSEPH B. TOO.MEY, Diocesan Direc­tor of Catholic Charities in tlie Diocese of S>'ra­cuse, X. Y., was the featured speaker recently at the Catholic Charities annual dinner-meeting in South Bend. 
ANDY CONLIX is now executive vice-president of tlie Peabody Coal Company in Chicago. 
1 QOy §1^^*^ Ronay 
2829 Applctrec Lane 
South Bend, Indaina 
ARTHUR (BUD) BOERINGER, head line coacli of football at Cornell University, resigned this summer so that he may live and work closer to his home in Park Rapids, Minnesota. Bud had been at Cornell since 1946. 
1 928 1253 North Central Ave. Chicago 51, Illinois 
JUDGE MARTIN V. CALL.\GY died suddenly in his home in New York City on August 4 of a heart attack. Bud had bet-n justice of the Court of Domestic Relations in New York since April. He had served previously on the same court in 1945 and was named secretary of the New York City Commission for the Temporary* Care of Chil­dren in 1946, serving until 1951. He was ap­pointed secretary' of the Mayor's Committee on Aid to Dependent Children in 1950 and secretary of the Ne^v York City Commission for the Foster Care of Children in 1951. Bud had also served as a member of the legal staff of tlic Public Service Commission. He became assistant corporation coun­sel in 1942 and was attomcy-in-cliief of the Legal Aid Sodct>'. Bud received his law degree from Georgetown University in 1931 with MIKE RICKS, GEORGE FLICK, ART MILLER and BOB STOEPPLER. He is survived by his wife, a daugh­ter and two sons. .\ Mass was olTercd for Bud at the request of the Class by FATHER JIM Mc-SHANE. Bud's close friend, MIKE RICKS, on bclialf of the Class of '28, had some Masses cele­brated for Bud at Holy Cross Seminary. I hope Mike has set a precedent for others to follow. 

As our Vice President BILL CRONIX staled in his wire of s>'mpathy to Mrs. Callag>', "Bud was one of our most distinguished classmates." The following statement made by the Board of Direc­tors of Youth House is tv'pical of the expressions made following Bud's death: "i\s Secretar>* of the Xew York City Commission for tlic Foster Care of Children and as Judge of the Domestic Relations Court, Judge Callagy's humanitarian work for youlli was far-reaching and tireless. For ten years Judge Callage' gave of his spirit, his knowledge, his time and his heart, to the development and furtherance of Youth House, the Xew York Cit>* Detention Home, and the boys and girls remanded to it." Francis Cardinal Spellman was represented at tlie requiem Mass by Bishop J. P. Donahue, Vicar General of ihe Xew York Archdiocese. 
I will miss Bud ver\' mucli in my efforts as Class Sccrclar>*, as lie never failed to respond to my many requests for assistance in class work. He wrote to the men in Xew York City promoting attendance at our 25-year reunion. Unfortunately, he found at the last minute that he was unable to attend himself. He was active in the Xotre Dame Club of Xew York, having scr\'cd as Vice-President from 1947 to 1950. You will recall that JIM SHOCKXESSY's class nominating committee se­lected Bud as one of our X'ice-Presidential candi­dates last year. BERXIE GARBER and JOHN* j\XTUS represented the Class at the funeral. Please remember Bud in your prayers. Mrs. Betty Callag>' wrote that the many expressions of s>'mpathy from Xotre Dame means much to her and her family. 

TIic s^-mpathy of the Class of 1928 is extended to our \'icc-President, JACK a\XIZ.\RO, on the death of his brother, DR. \TrO a\XIZARO, '29, who died in Biloxi, Mississippi, on July 27 of ad­\*anccd leukemia. He is surv-ivcd by a wife and seven cliildrcn. BOB EVAXS advised that the xXugust issue of the Catliolic Action of the South reported that the Canizaro brotliers (James T. '28, Dr. Vito, '29, Anthony, T. J., and Joseph) donated a new shrine to our Lady of Mount Carmel to the Car­melite ifonastery at Jackson, Mississippi. It was ^vcn in commemoration of their deceased parents and was dedicated on August 21. 
Tlie June, 1954, Issue of Social Action Xotes for Priests carried a report concerning the awarding of this year's ^^onsignor Ryan .\ward to J. CH/VRLES SHORT. His acceptance speech was quoted at length. Tlic award was conferred by tlie Philadelphia Chapter of tlic Association of Catholic Trade Unionists. Charley received his LL.B. de­gree from Duquesne University. He practices low-in Philadelphia and teaches for the Jesuit Institute of Industrial Relations. Charley is married and has three cliildren. Congratulations, Charley, on this recognition of your good work. 
ED McCI^VRNOX has moved from Cleveland to Albany, X'ew York, where he is claim manager for tlie Travelers. His neiv territory covers a good share of the eastern portion of New York State. Ed has four cliildren ranging in age from 17 to 23 and two grandclilldren. He has a son attending Milford Novitiate and another son at Notre Dame. I saw several classmates tliis summer. On our way to visit our son at camp in Northern Wiscon­sin, we stopped in Stevens Point to see DAVE KREMBS and his family. Dave has three small children, ages 7, 4 and 3. He teaclics physical education and mathematics at the P. J. Jacobs High School in Stevens Point, Wbconsin. We visited DR. BOB FOGERTY at St. Tliomas College in St. Paul, Minnesota, where he is professor of his-tor>'. Bob has a son age 9 and a daughter 5. He mentioned how much he regretted liIs inability to attend tlic reunion because of a research job he was doing at tlic time for the ^Vrmy. Unfor­tunately, we missed seeing Rt\,Y MOCK who is di­rector of the placement service at St. Tliomos. He has two young daughters, age 3 and 7. I under­stand DR. JOHN VIKTORYX of Cleveland visited St. Paul during the American Bowling Congress. We stopped to see BILL ARMIX and his wife at their home in Dowagiac, Michigan, in August. Bill reported at that time that tlic Willys* plant where he was employed was going out of business in Dowagiac 
Tlic Columbian magazine for August, 1954, car­ried a picture of TOM MAHOX, State Deputy of the Knights of Columbus in Minnesota. HEXRY HASLEY is the only other classmate whom I can recall as having scncd as Slate Deputy. Were there others? Tliere are a number of past district dqjuties in tlic class including BOB LxVMEY, JOHX ROBINSON. GER^VLD SHEIBLEY and your Qass Sccrctar>*. Past Grand Knights include, in addition to Uic above, FRED RUIZ, ORVILLE MURCH, HAYES MURPHY, EUGENE O'BRIEN, LEO WALSH, HOWIE PHALIN, ED McKEOWN and NORB SEIDENSTICKER. Tlie following men arc also active in the K. of C. local chapters: ED DE,VN, LEO FETTIG, DICK GREENE, ED HAG­ERTY, CL/VRENCE HAVEN, BILL KIRWAN, JOHN LYONS, JIM REILLY, ARNOLD THOMA and TOM TIUVUGHBER. 
While on tlic subject of fraternal orders, I should also mention that SWEDE SCHROEDER (Grand Aerie Justice) and GER/\LD SHEIBLEY (Worthy Prcs.) are active in the Fraternal Order of Eagles. I remember a few years ago I noted where SWEDE SCHROEDER met with President Truman to dis­cuss a program of the Eagles. FLOYD SEJVRER, BOB GRANT, GEORGE BE^VMER and ALLEN JOHNSON arc active in the Masons. You will recall that GEORGE BE^VMER had to diWdc his time between the Class and the Masons during the reunion week end. 
The Congressional Record for August 20, 1954 (page A6241) carried a spcecli on "Employer Asso­ciations" given by JOHN Q. ADAMS, '26, Presi­dent of the Manhattan Refrigerating Co., N. Y., Branx Terminal Annex, Bronx, N. Y., and Union Terminal Cold Storage Co., Jersey Cit>'. Con­gressman McCormick referred to it as "one of the finest addresses I have ever read." The address was given at the Serra International Convention in Grand Rapids, Michigan, on July 8, 1954. 
WTiilc speaking of the Serra organization, an arcltitect friend from Milwaukee tells me that PAUL BRUST, \vho has seven children, is vcr>* active in tlic Serra Club there. Paul also has held various offices in the Wisconsin Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. This reminds me that JIM INGIL\M of Louisville, Ky., 5er\ed as President of the Kentucky Institute of Architects a 
DENA1ER—Archbishop Urban J. Vehr took 

few years ago. Jim's son was graduated in archi­tecture from ND this year. 
I was a guest of BILL JONES at the Notre Dame luncheon held during tlie annual meeting of the American Bar fVssociation in Chicago in August. Other '28 men at the luncheon were the following Chicago attomcvs: JOE GRIFFIN, BILL KE^VR­NEY, DICK PHEL.\N and R^\Y MULLlGxVN. BILL KEj\RNEY, who has five cliildren ages 3 to 14, and DICK PHEL/\N, the faUicr of three boj-s, arc attorneys in the same office with BERT KOR­ZEN, the Democratic candidate for Clerk of the Probate Court of Cook County. Bert has two adopted children. JOE GRIFFIN, father of four children ages 3 to 14, also practices law in Chicago. R.\Y MULLIG/\N, father of two young daughters, is an attorney with the Chicago Title and Trust Co, BILL JONES, who has one daughter, is a partner in the law firm of Hamilton & Hamilton, Washington, D, C. Bill was kept ver>- busy on com­mittee work during the Bar .-Vssociation meeting, as he is a member of the Committee on Profes­sional Ethics and Grievances and he also had committee assignments in the Section of Adminis­trative Law. SPIKE Mci\DAMS, '30, another Chi­cago attorney at the meeting, mentioned that he sees PAT CANNY regularly. Pat is General Attor­ney for the Eric Railroad Company and has five children ages 11 to 20. JOE GRIFFIN mentioned that lie sees ED McSWEENEY of Chicago who is head of the catalogue dixision of Sears Roebuck & Co. Ed h single and lives in Chicago. 
BILL MURPHY sent a card from Quebec in .\ugust infonning me that he met S^VEDE SCHROEDER and his wife at the top of Royal Mountain in ^fontreaI. Swede, in addition to prac­ticing law in Detroit Lakes, Minn., is Secrctarv"-Treosurer of the Sales Engineering In.<ilitute, Inc. (Sales systems) and is one of the greatest travelers in the class, having \isilcd Florida, Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica and Cuba during the past six months. Swede has five children ages 12 to 21. His oldest son is a student in architecture at Notre Dame. BILL MURPHY, who visited all the shrines in Canada 
 time out from his Episcopal duties to baptize 
Alumnus Bart W. O'Hara, '32. Mr. and Mrs. O'Hara are at the e.\trcme left in the back in 1924. 
this summer, is district manager for the Divcrsey 
Corporation (Industrial Chemicals and Compounds) 
in Chicago. Bill is still a bachelor. 
Our President FRANK CRE/VDON received a letter from CHARLIE SHELANSKEY after wait­ing 26 years. Charlie is an auditor for the Comp­troller's Office in New York Slate and lives at ^Vesthampton Beach, L. L, New York. He has three children, ages 6 to 19. The oldest boy is at the U. S, Merchant Marine Academy on Long Island. It is great to have some news on Charlie, as a number of classmates have inquired about him rccenUy, including JOE DE BOTT, JOE GERAGH­TY and DICK GREEN of Muncie, Indiana. 
BILL KIRWiVN of Iowa City, Iowa, tells me that he saw L.\RRY M^VSON at Clarke College where each had daughters last year. Larry prac­tices law at Mason City. Larry also has a daugh­ter at St. Mary's. Bill's daughter is going to Io%\'a. University tliis year. 
While speaking of the Kin%-ans, an Army friend from Louisnlle, Ky., informed me that M/\RTIN J. KIRWAN contributed 25 pints of blood through the Louisville Red Cross Chapter. I understand that Martin is a civil engineer with the U. S. /\rmy Corps of Engineers there. 
I was pleasantly surprised to receive a letter from JUDGE JOHN CULLIN/VN of the Connecti­cut Superior Court. John mentioned that he met LARRY CULLINEY in Pomfcrt, Conn., where they were staying at the same inn. I.arry lives in North Haven, Conn., and is examiner for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. as a specialist on trust department examinations. Larry has four children ranging in age from less than one year to 12 years of age. John mentioned that Larry has led the organization of a Notre Dame Alumni group in the greater New Haven area. Many of you probably noted Larr>''s picture %vith the New Havcn-ND group in the last issue of the ALU^f-NUS. John is to speak at one of their monthly meetings in 1955. The Judge also mentioned that he sees JOHN ROBINSON frequently at meetings of the Advisorj" Board of Alberlus Magnus College. 
 Matthew David, the seventh child of N D 
 row. Archbishop Vehr attended Notre Dame 
NotTg Dame Alumnus, November-Dicember, 1954 29 
BERNARD M. FINNIGAN, '25 
Bernard M. Finnigan, a Law School graduate of 1925, was appointed last April to the post of General Manager of tlie American Safety Razor Corpora­tionj Kingsbury Division, Laporte, Ind. He was previously associated with die Brookl)Ti plant of tlie same company. 
Bemie practiced law in Chicago from 1927 until 194L Prior to emplo>Tnent by die American Safety Razor Corp., he was Director of Management Informa­tion for the Studebaker Corporation, and for several years had been Assist­ant to die Director of Industrial Rela­tions of diat company. 
Mr. and Mrs. Finnigan now reside in Laporte, having resided previously at their summer home at Diamond Lake, Cassopolis, ^licli. They have two children. 
John Robinson is Chairman and JUDGE CULLI­NAN, a member of that Board. 
W^ile speaking of John Robinson, I noted his biography in "Who's Who in America'* recently. John, as you know, is Headmaster of the Robin­son Scliool in WtAt Hartford, Conn. He has five children, ages 7 to 16. John ser\*ed as executive director to former Governor Robert A. Hurley in 1942, State Director of selective service for Conn., 1942-47, and a member of the staff of the national director of Selective Service, 1947-48. He served as Commander in the U. S. N. R. 
A friend of mine, who docs business with tlie Cleveland Trcnclier Co., called my attention to the financial report and cinpIo>-ce handbook of that firm. I noted that my old neighbor in Freshman Hall, VINCE PENOTE, is President and Gener^J Man­
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1954 
agcr of that company in Cle\*elaiid which manufac­tures excavating (Trencher} machinery. I under­stand that Vincc is also President of the "Jaguar-Cleveland ^fotors Inc.," a foreign car agency. The Cleveland Trcndier Co. is very much an ND in­stitution. In addition to Vince as President, his brotlicr John of the Class of 1933 is Vice-President, NOR^^A^' J. GREENEY, '33, b Sales Engineer and JOHN J. REIDY, *27, is a member of the Board of Directors and Ass*t. Secretary of the Company. 
I noticed in the ifadison, 'Wis., • neu-spapers where GERALD F. AfcGILL, State Director of the Bureau of Alcohol Studies of tlic Wisconsin Depart­ment of Public Welfare's Division of Kfcntal Hy­giene, served as general clialrman of the National States Conference on Alcoholism and the Research Conference on the Problems of Alcoholism held this year in Madison in October. 
GEORGE F. CONCERT, Jr., %vrotc that his father who attended Notre Dame in 1892-93 will Join him in returning for a game this year. George is on the eixperiment staff of DcVilbiss Mfg. Co. in Toledo, Ohio. His wife died in 1936. George re­ports that he spent most of the summer in Canada fishing. He sees ED HAGERTY, BILL CLARK and BOB COOXEY regularly. 

TOM TRAUGHBER advised that JOHN CAR­LIN operates a wheat and cattle rancli in Kansas. John will have a son at Notre Dame this year. I noted John's picture with the Kansas Notre Dame Club group In the Nov.-Dcc 1953 ALUM­NUS. His nctv address is Mentor, Kansas. Tom also reports that JOHN BUSCHMEYER, who has been Superintendent of the Louisville, Ky., City Hospital since 1934, has three children. Tom also sees JOHN BURCHERD, who is with a steel com­pany in Birmingham, Ala.; JOHN HARWOOD, *27, architect of Nashville. Tcnn.; and THEO (FRENCHIE) DOHOGNE, '27, who is in the elec­trical equipment business in ClarksvIIlc TOM TRrtUGHBER Is District Attomc>- General for the State of Tennessee, ^(ontgomcr>' County. He lives in Clarksvillc, Tcnn., is married and has a son, ago 7. 
BOB EVANS is assistant manager of the Missis­sippi Lumber Co. in Vicksburg, Miss. Bob has a son, age 20, at the University of Mississippi and a married daughter. He sees JIM PARKER, who is living in Vicksburs at present. GEORGE COURY stopped by to \*islt Bob recently. 
It was good to see DR. GUY LORANGER of Grosso Pointe, Michigan, at the 25th reunion, as I had not heard from him In some time. Guy is another cJassmatc who is responsible for the high birth rate In the class, as he has sue children, ages 7 to 18. His oldest daughter is at Madonna College. Guy commanded a unit of tho 5th field hospital while he was on active duty from 1940 to 1946. He was In the Ne\%' Guinea and Philip­pines campaigns. 
Otiicr notes whicli I have located on reunlonists who have not been mentioned recently include the following: BOB NICKELLS of Los Angeles, is in the general insurance and real estate brokerage business. He has one son, age 19. BILL O'NEILL, President of Transportation Service, Inc., in Cleve­land has four children. One of his sons is at Georgetown and a daughter is at St. Mary's of the Woods. Another classmate In the transportation business is LOUIS C^VRR, \'ice-President and Gen­eral Manager of Coast Cities Coaches, Inc. Lou who lives in Spring Lake, N. J., has three children, ages 12 to 18. JOE BR/VUNSDORF is district engineer with the Indiana & Micliigan Electric Co. in South Bend. Joe has a son, age 14. Joe was inquiring about JIM BERRY. At the reunion Paul Bnist was inquiring about ED BETHKE, SAM DUBA and LEO FETTIG. Leo is an asso­ciate general contractor in Dayion, Ohio. He has four children, ages 5 to 21. DR. BERNIE CROW­LEY, the only dentist in our class, is with the Veterans Administration in Wichita, Kansas. Bemie mentioned tliat he sees AL GEBERT. Al coached at Wcliita U. for a number of years and at present is in the oil business. AL DAVIS is Avorks man­ager of Detroit Diesel DMsion of General Motors in Detroit. He has sLx children, ages 4 to 18. His oldest daughter is at St. Mary's. JOHN D.WIS, who is a partner In a retail furniture store in Os^vego, also has a daughter at St. Mary's. John was inquiring about TED AUSTIN, ART ZIM­MERMAN, and \TNCE DUCEY. I understand Vincc Duce>- is with the California State Employ­ment Service In Sacramento. ED DEAN had just mov^d to St. Louis at the lime of our reunion. 
He is plant manager of the Missouri Coke and Chemical Division of the Great Lakes Carbon Cf-rporation. He has five children, ages 2 to 17. JERRY DE CLERCQ, who is branch manager of the Fleischmann Division of Standard Brands, Inc., is the father of 2-ycar-old tivlns. He was President of the Micliigan Bakers Allied Trades Association In 1952. JOE E. MORRISSEY of Coos Bay, Ore­gon, an accountant with the Irwin & L^'ons Lum­ber Co., has three children, ages 10 to 15. 
JOHN R. MURPHY advised that JOSEPH J. CANTY, an attorney for the Industrial Commis­sion of the State of Ohio, had a new baby recently. Since births are again news in this column, please keep mc advised accordingly. JOHN MURPHY, who Is special agent for the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. In Cohimbus, has three chil­dren, ages 6 to 16. John mentioned that his Sophomore Hall roommate, ALEX DOMBEY, is an attorney In Columbus. 
AL SCHNURR, Vice-President and Treasurer of Alfred Schnurr & Sons, Inc., general contractors, in Sandusky, Ohio, informs me that ROY ^VOR• DEN, South Bend architect, is rather well known for his South Bend airport design which received considerable attention in leading architectural mag­azines, even as far as Japan. Roy has been Presi­dent of the South Bend Plan Commission since 1948 and has serv'cd as President of the South Bend Board Zoning Appeals, the Indiana State Board of Registration for Architects and the St. Joseph County Appeal Board (Building). Al Schnurr has four children, ages 7 to 20. His oldest son is a senior in architecture at ND this year. 
At the suggestion of DEN'N'\' DALY, I just fin­ished reading the autobiography of Father John LaFargc, S.J., entitled "The ifanner Is Ordinary." The following statement from this book concerning Father LaFarge's Harvard Class of *01 is Indicative of how- many of «s feel toward the ND Class of '28 on the basis of class interest displayed since the silver anniversary reunion: "Only when the class anniversaries began to roll around in later life did Class membership first become a matter of con­sciousness, then of conscience, next of pride, and finally of a very real and noble pleasure." You may be interested to know that Father LaFarge's Harvard Class of '01 collected a substantial sum to aid In building his church In St. Mary's County, Md. I hope the ND Class of 1928 can do some* thing to indicate it is "an entity with a very human heart" as Father LaFarge refers to his own Har­vard Class. 
No doubt you received my September letter with the "In Mcmoriam" card enclosed. I trust that you remember our deceased classmates, especially in November, when Fathers McSHANE, S.J., MUL­REAN*Y, C.S.C., and FITZGERALD, C.S.C., arc offering Masses for their souls. 
It is hoped that you made good use of the list of gates designated as meeting places for *28 men at the games which was sent to you In September. Please drop -j-our Class Secretary a line reporting on news of *28 men you have seen so we can con­tinue to j^vc you a news\' column. 
May I thank tlie following classmates who took care of mailings and mimeographing or who picked up the cliecks for class printing bills this year: HOWIE PHALIN, ED McKEOAW, JACK CAN­IZr\RO, MIKE RICKS and BILL KE.\RNEY. As tlie result of their assistance, we have been able to keep the Class Treasur>* intact for use for Mass offerings. Incidentally, the address of our Treas­urer, JACK SHEEDY, is 1118 Farmers Bank Building, Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
RUSS SMITH and his wife, Dorothy, celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary on September 19. According to AL SCHNURR, half of Sandusky-turned out for the great affair. /Vmong those pres­ent were CHET RICE and BILL MURPHY. Chet drove in from Cleveland with his wife while **Murph" flew In from Chicago. Russ has a son, Ctaig, who is now- going to school at John Carroll University in Cleveland and his daughter, Carol, is planning on getting married in November. 
Donald J. Flunkctt 

1929 Biology Department 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

ALFRED J. GAUTHIER'S new address is c/o Mr. J. XIcLafTcrty, 56 Rcid Street, Rautlicrslen, Scotland. 
W. R. SIDENFADEN w-as elected president of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association at tlic con­vention and trade show held in Chicago. 
Z5 yEAR, REUNION JUNE lO 11-11 
Dcverc Plunkctt 
1930 
O'Shaughncssy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
FR.VNXIS X. O'NEIL of Long Beach, Calif., was honored recently by being named Knight of Columbus of the Year by the Long Beach Council 3449. Frank is employed by the Standard Oil Com­pany of California in the sales department. In addition to the K. of C.'s, he is also a member of the Catholic Welfare Bureau as well as \*arions ciwc organi/ations. 
From now on all Class reporting will be con­cerned cliicfly with Reunion plans. As you can note, blocks all over these Class pages call atten­tion to the June dates for the 1955 reunions. TIic principal emphasis falls on our 25th Anniversary*. It is the Silver anniversary reunion that draws the largest turnout of classmates, and it is the group that the President of the University honors at re­union time by having them as his guests at a spe­cial luncheon. This gives ouij reunion people a f:hancc to discuss more intimately with the Presi­dent the many problems that involve both the University and its .Mumnt. 
It is customar>- for the 25th anniversary- class to use Lyons Hall for its headquarters. Its nearness to tho lake, to the Rockne Building, and the golf course make it ideal for a three-day reunion site. Events that make this reunion a memorable one include tho Mass said for deceased members of the 1930 class, distribution of cards bearing names of all the deceased from our class, the Friday evening dinner at the Morris Inn on the campus, the luncheon Saturday with the President, and the an­nual Alumni dinner on Saturday evening. There will be Masses in the Basement chapel on Sunday morning for early leavers, and later Masses in Sacred Heart Church for other reunion guests. 
There is no set pattern of a reunion schedule that must be adhered to. If a suflicient number of returning classmates request some other project of unusual interest, every effort will be made to pro­vide that. There is no doubt that 1930 men will be tremendously interested in the ph>*5ical growth of Notre Dame since their last \-isit here. There will be plenty of time for ever>'one to take leisurely walks to the new* O'Shaughncssy building, the Nicuwland Science building, Lobund Laboratories, the Hammes Shopping Center, the LaFortune Stu­dent Center, the new Fisher and Pangbom Halls. 
But apart from tho ph>*5ical expansion of the University, most Alumni arc curious about what is going on in the internal structure of the academic life at Xotre Dame. Visiting speakers at regional alumni meetings have touched upon some of these changes, but most alumni w*ant to return to the campus, have a close look at what is going on, ask some direct questions and pass their own judg­ment on new University plans. 
From what has been said so far, one would think that the golf course was not operating during rec-union lime. /\s a matter of fact, we expect 1930 men to win most of the prizes in the Alumni Tour­namtnt. 
Tlie following members of tho class of 1930 have been asked to help out on the local reunion com­mittee: PAUL FARMER, LOUIS H^VSLEY, ROB­ERT HOLMES, WALTER I^VNGFORD, FR/\NCIS MF-SSICK, \'ERNON J. SL.\CK, LOUIS STET­TLER, RICH/VRD SULLIVAN and IwVRL WEI­G.-VND. Regional committees arc being formed to adWsc on tho planning of the reunion activities, to coordinate travel plans for classmates in their re­spective regions, and to nominate a candidate for the regional vice-presidents that must be cliosen at reunion lime. All class members will be kept informed about all such committee groups. 
Here are some news items gleaned from earlier commtmications with members of the 1930 Class: 
JAMES W. SULLIVAN is a funeral director in Ro>ral Oak, Micliigan. Ho and his wife Geraldine have four children. Bill 13, Johnny 11, and twin daughters Margaret and Martha, 7 years old. Jim sees MACK TREMBLEY and ED NEBEL (re­quently. He w*as at the 1950 reunion and plans to be at the Big One. Would like to hear from DAN SULLIVAN and DENNY SHANAHAN. 

DR. JOHN FORSEE is still practicing medicine in Louisx'illc. John writes, "My hair is graying, my wife and children (7) are intractable, my hand­ball is mediocre because of lack of time to play enough, my interest in football, basketball, etc, is waning because of the tough sculBc to get tickets. But despite these factors I still pride myself that the almost indefinable Notre Dame spirit is in my soul." John will surely be here for the 1955 re­union. He was on hand for the 20tli anniversary, and taught LOU STETTLER and BILL FINK a few tricks in bridge. 
JOHN AfcGEE is residing in Kcnmore, New York and is Chief, Contracts USxVF at Bell Air­craft Corporation. John's boy entered Notre Dame this fall. John said he would like to hear from his old roommate TOM KEOGAN, ED ENGLAND, SAM RICHARDS and ED MULVILL. John is coming out for the Reunion next year; hc will find a big delegation coming out of New York State for that affair. 
ROYJVL HIGGINS is a manufacturer's represen­tative, radio and tclcvbion components. Ro)-al has four cliildren, and he makes his home in Chicago. Fellows he sees most frequently are BILL MCCAR­THY, ART PETERSEN. PAUL HEIDKAMP, ED SLICK and JACK CVN'NON. Hc wrote, "Not much to tell—after wandering in the Saliara of the 1930's, I finally got to earning a living in the field of my avocation, and subsequently got in business for myself (1942). I have two eventual ND can­didates (sons John and Mike). Perhaps after they arc in school I'll be able to get good tickets to tlie game or two a year I attend." 
DANIEL G. SULLIVxVN lives in AVellcsley, Mass. His two daughters attended the Academy of the ;\ssumption. Dan is Manager, Elcctrolux Corp. of Framingham, ^fass. Dan would enjoy hearing from KARL BRENNxVN, TOM FROST and JOE Mc-C/\BE. In a note sent along some time ago, Dan wrote, "Peg and DONALD SULLIV^VN and their very handsome son, Don, spent a Sunday with us last year. They drove down from Northampton and have not been back since. We see Ruth and JIM SKAHiVN quite frcquentlv. Our next door neighbor, FRrVNK HERBERT, '40, is a loyal ND supporter, and we have some good sessions over the back fence." 
FR.\NK HAMILTON is a lawyer in Dodgcvillc, Wisconsin. His daughter, ^fary, is 14 and son, Dennis, is 12. Frank mentioned seeing TOM FROST of ^fadbon who is ver>' active in farm machinery* and the automobile business. He also recalled seeing HUGH E. "CURLEY" IL\YES of Oregon, Wisconsin- Mike Hayes, the oldest of the five Hayes children is a sophomore at ND. Curlcy Hayes had two serious operations and recov­ered well. Frank WTx>te, "I made an unsuccessful attempt to locate JOE PALERMO in Vicksburg, Miss., a while ago, as I learned he is a government engineer there. FRANK CURRAN is in business in Mauston, Wisconsin—probably on his second million by now." 
HARRY H. FILVNCIS, JR.. wiUi wife Mar­guerite and children Judy, Harry* III and Kathleen resides in Newtown Square, Pa. The last 1930 fellows hc saw were JOHN T. MOR/\N, JOE KELLY, GEORGE HEWSON and MARTY BRILL; and he is hoping to hear soon from JOE PALER­MO, FR^VNK L.VNGRILL and LEO SCHR/VLL. Harry wrote: "Well I have been a Dodge-Plym­outh Dealer here in Paol!, Pa., since 1939, and have been selling these great cars since 1932. Served from July, 1942, until June, 1946, in USAF. Had to miss the 20th year reunion as my youngest daughter was born in June, 1950, but I'll be there in 1955 with .Moran, KeUy, HUGH GALLAGHER and GEORGE HEWSON. Expect to see ARCH­BISHOP O'HARti in tiie very near future, I am located 20 miles west of Philadelphia on the Main Line in a rapidly expanding community*. Dev, there is not much to tell, just leading a normal life, at present on a merry-go-round with this auto business. But I know this for sure: I can still take Palermo in golf." 
DR. PHILIP M. PROVISSIERO is still prac­ticing dentistry in New Jersey*. He says he some­times sees JOE ABBOTT, L.\RRY CRONIN, DR. FR^\NK MANZIONE and NORM LILLIG. Doc says he is coming back for the 25th Reunion—^v-as also here for the 20th. Should be one of a big contingent coming from New Jersey. 
JOHN V. MORt\N is an Attorney and Purchas-
GHARLES F. DALY, '40 

Top honors of the life insurance field were bestowed upon Charles F. Daly of West Palm Beach, Fla., recently. Chuck was elected to the "Million Dollar Round Table." This requires the sale of $1,000,000 worth of life in­surance within a 12-month period. 
Upon leaving Notre Dame in 1940 Chuck was associated with the law firm of Kadelj Shields, and Weiss in New York City. During the following year Chuck enlisted in the Air Force as a private. He was discharged in 1945 as a captain. 
Chuck returned to civilian life as a life insurance salesman for the New York Life in Buffalo.-In 1950, Mutual Benefit of New Jersey transferred him to West Palm Beach to represent them as district agent. Last year he was offered the general agency of the Franklin Life Insurance Company in Palm Beach. This is the position that Chuck now holds. 
Chuck married the former Betty Erion of Buffalo in 1942. They have two daughters. Holly Anne and Sharon Elizabeth. 
he saw PETE WACHS in Boston some months ago ing Agent for the City of Boston, where he resides with hi» wife, Margie and four children. He said on a business trip; also JIM MULVANEY and RAY REARDON. He writes that his old room­mate JIM DEELY is salesmanager for the Brooklym Union Gas Co. Asks ^vhat has happened to BILL HALLISEY of Chicago. Would like to hear from JOHN HOFFMAN. Will be at the reunion in June, 1955 if all goes well. 
Nolrf Damf Alumnus, NocembeT-Deeember, 1954 31 
James T. Doyle 
1931 902 Oakton Street 
Evanston, Illinois 
After a very pleasant summer I am expecting plenty of letters about %-acations, classmates you saw, Xotrc Dame club golf tournaments and other bits of information members of the '31 class would enjoy reading. TTie ^fass and Reunion Fund has increased due to contributions received from HAR­OLD STELZER, TOM MOXAHAX, AL STEFAN and EDDIE R\%\X. In July my ^vifc and I hap­pened to stop in Lytton's in Chicago and ran into TOM and MARY MOXAH/\N who were up here on business for a day or t^vo. Tom decided to support the class fund tlicn and there mther than wait until his return home. Because Tom is not far from Chicago it is okeh for him to deliver his con­tribution in person, but be assured others can en­close their contribution with some news for this column. 
Harold Stelzer was x-acationing in Door County, Wisconsin, just about the same time PAUL DUN­CAN was up there, and found time to get off the following note; "Only you and I know how long this letter has been on the way. Honestly, after I get this in the mail I ^^"111 feci like a fallen away Catholic just after tlic prodigal's return to his fatlier*s house. I can count at least three times you 'knocked on my door' for just a word to help fill a few lines in your superb column. Now just let me crawl in tlie pew and repent. On several occasions in the past I am sure I did like so many others in the class—^just made a note to write and then forgot about it, or found more pressing duties to perform But tonight it is different. 
".•\s •>'ou may kno\^-, after we graduated I wore out a few pairs of shoes in my efforts to find a job in Ciril Engineering. I gave up after talking to a few starving contractors and in one instance, was offered a job Just for the experience, but not with any pay, by one of today's largest builders of in­dustrial structures, .-^fter tr>-ing to sell several lines of goods wholesale I \\-ound up at Sears, Roebuck & Co., uiicre I w:as at least assured a 'living wage* I93I model. Scars and I have gotten «n \-cr>* well. AVe have each given our share of efTort and compensation. By 1939 I had moved through se%-eral positions In three of their Chicago stores, after which I was brought into the parent offices in Chicago. From 1940 to February of 1954 (ex­cept 40 months in the Army] I bought the electric tool and motor line for retail and mail order sell­ing in the states and wherever import restrictions didn't keep my goods out of our foreign stores. Shortly after tlie first of thb year, I was offered tlie job of buying vacuum cleaners. I assure you it was not ver>' easy to turn my back on fifteen years of experience in the too] business, but I could not reject the challenge presented by the new line. So since February- 1st I have been tr>ing to satisfy the women of America instead of the men. My nc%v position has been very pleasing to my family, since they rccovercrd from the shock of the change. So far I have been out of town only a few days In the last sL\ months. Previously, I was on the road about 8 to 10 days a month. In fact from the middle of last September to the middle of October (1953) I was at home only week ends. In between a team of two other men from Sears' hardware department and I flew about 12,000 miles conducting sales and training meetings. Yes, a buyer at Sears really gets a \vcaltli of ex­perience. He's not only the purcliaser of the goods, but many times takes a vcr\' active part in its sales. Jim, it must be obvious to you that If I don't get ofT tlic Scars soap box now, my enthusiasm will carr>* me up to midnight and writer's cramp before I can say goodnight. But before I do, I •want to add my congratulations to yours to GIL SEA&L\N for a s^vell job uith the Notre Dame Club of Chi­cago. Although my activity in the club has been limited to Uni%xrsal Notre Dame Night I have admired his administration as reflected in the mail and announcements which come my way. He's a proud boast of the class of '31. 
*'I don't ever come across many Notre Dame men knowingly, but if any of them are in the vacuum cleaner industry' or even connected v^'ith my former line and wander into the ridnity of the Allstate building in Scars Row in Chicago they hereby have an inritation to tlie eighth floor, if for nothing more- than to compare notes. 
**Evcr since we were blessed with our second girl, Marian, in 1950, we have been fortunate in being able to spend our \'acatIons at Egg Harbor, Wisconsin. The last few years it has been the 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, Nonember-Deeember, 1954 
EDWARD M. NAUGHTON, '23 
Edward M. Naughton has been named president and general manager of the Utah Power & Light Co. He graduated from Notre Dame with a mechanical engineering degree and later attended the Westinghouse Elec­tric Corporation post-graduate school. 
Ed has been associated with the elec­tric industr)^ for more than 29 years. He joined UP&L as superintendent of steam-electric plants in 1935. Since that time he has served as assistant manager, assistant to the vice-president, and vice-president before being named to his present position. He is a director of die National Association of Electric Companies, a member of the Public Information Program's Steering Com­mittee, and was enlisted by the govern­ment in October, 1952, to serve for six months as director of the engine and turbine division of the National Pro­duction Authority. 
Ed lives in Salt Lake Cit>' with his wife and only daughter. 

month of August. By forcing me to put my mone>' on the line for a few months* rent, my vvife has succeeded in her efforts to get me to take my full three weeks' \'acation (perhaps this may be a tip to the wives of other guys who have the false impres­sion that they arc Indispensable in their jobs}. I go up north for the first, third and fourth weeks. Therefore, this week I am 'batching' it. You can well imagine how anxious I am to catch the rattler tomorrow for my last two weeks of leuure. 
"Before I started this thesis I created the en­closed check for the Class of 1931 Mass Fund. I had intended to be brief, even to the extent of your suggestion of just a card to accompany it. But I'll have to take you up on that w*ith my next check, whicli I assure you, won't be as long in 
coming as this letter. Again, more power to you 
for being Notre Dame's best class secretary. Good­
night Jim, God bless you." 
Harold J. Stelzer 
Tlianks for a wonderful letter, Harold. I am 

sure campus buddies arc going to enjoy it. It isn't 
hard fellows, just sit down and draft some news 
for >*our hard working secretary. He appreciates it. 
About t^*o weeks ago, being a laz>' Catholic and 

attending the noonday Mass at St. Peter's I ran 
into our esteemed Rc\-ercnd from Dan\Tlle, C. 
BOURKE MOTSETT. He ^%-as in toun with his 
Mother and we had a pleasant, but altogether too 
short \'Isit. Both look very well. Bourke gave a 
good report on RALPH DALTON, JOE MEITZ­
LER and JOHNNY HELTON. 
I had a call from JI.\f MULVANEY who had lunch with JIM GALLAGHER in Chicago recently. He also had a note from JOHN BURNS informing him of the death of the father of JOSEPH (SLIM) RUHON. AURTIN DOAVNEY's Mother died this summer. On behalf of the class I wish to extend our s>-mpathy to Slim and \rartin. 
I had a note from FATHER JOHN MARGRAF thanking the Class for a check for Mass offerings for JOSEPH P. KEOGH, ANDREW G. PATRICK, JOHN J. HOLMES, JERRY MADDEN and ALLAN HOWARD. Father Margraf is feeling much better tills summer and will be happy to have a visit from any *31ers who arc down for football games. Mass Cards were sent to the families of the above. I received an acknowledgment from Mrs. Kcogh. From Mrs, Agnes B. Howard, Al's Mother, comes the following note: 
ft 

Dear Friend: 
**I may call you tliat as I feel that way toward 

anyone from Notre Dame or who knew Allan. His 
sudden passing left me all alone, so I moved from 
Los Angeles to Pocohontas, Iowa, where all my 
people live. All Allan ever talked about %vere his 
years and friends at Notre Dame; he liked to talk 
of his \'islts to Chicago and the good times he had 
there. I want to thank the Class of 1931 for the 
expressions of s>'mpathy and the Mass offering. It 
is deeply appreciated, and I pray that God will 
bless ^1 of you and your families." 
From Edward A. Madden, uncle of Jcrr>- Madden: 
'•Your letter of September I4th reached Jerome's Mother at St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Covington, where she has been confined for several years, due to diabetes and a stroke and I am answering for her. His Motlicr and I were deeply touched at your expression of sorrow and sj-rapathy and Avish to thank you sincerely for remembering Jerry so kindly. Mrs. Madden is his only survivor and is celebrating her 76th birtliday on October 11th and asks that you remember her also in your prayers." 
Please remember these people In \-our prayers. These and other letters you have read arc an in­dication of what has been done with your tu}ntribu­tions to the fund of the Class of 1931. Please enable It to do better by sending your contribution now. 
CARROLL SIZER, who spent his Freshman year in Hou-ard Hall, passed away in ^fadison, AViscon­sin, in late July where he had been special assistant to the United Stales Attorney General in the jus­tice department tax division. 
From FREDDIE SUTNT, Nashrille, Tenn.: "Don't fall over on hearing from rac, but -j-ou know how I alu'ays have been on wxitlng. Hope you and Kay arc in the best of health as well as your Mother and familv. Mrs. Wells, wife of CHARLES "RED" WELLS, called me about a week ago and asked me to stop and see Charlie. He is in bad health and not expected to live long —some kind of a brain disorder. His left side is paralyzed and he has lost about 48 pounds. Charles, Jr., was at Notre Dame two years and then was in militarj- ser\'ice in Korea, but got a discliargc because of his father." Red would ap­preciate hearing from his Notre Dame friends. Ad­dress him as follows: Charles S. Wells, 118 Wood­mont BK'd., NashWIlc 12, Tenn. 
TOM ASHE sent a note a icw da>-s ago: 
"I have little or nothing in the line of news, but did ^vant to tell you that I may fly to Chicago on November 7th for the API Convention which is to be held in Chicago the 8th through the 11th. From there I go on to New York for the semi­annual jaunt, and as luck would have it, there seems no possible wa.y for me to see a Notre Dame game. Anyhow, if these plans materialize as ex­pected, it might be possible to round, up some of 
WHY THE DON'T YOU WRITE? 
Okay, got my breath back and my pulse down, the class can go back to sleep. But wait, let*s hear from those who did achieve the impossible and get off a letter to the old homestead. 
From LES RADDATZ: 
"It was good to read the voluminous '33 notes in the Atig.-Sept. ALUMNUS. By now you're probably wishing you had saved some of them. (Ed. Note: On target, Les!) I have a couple of adds: 
"The REV. LLOYD TESKE, C.S.C., who teaches at the University of Portland, spent the month of August in North Hollywood helping out at St. Charles Church, where he hob-nobbed with the celebrities. 
"CLEVE CAREY, as you may already have heard, has left the advertising business to enter the Franciscans and Is In a monastery here in California. 
"I also have a question. AVhat ever happened to ROGER BEIRNE, who was a popular actor and character in our class? In your exhaustive run­down before the reunion he was not listed as liv­ing, dead, or missing. 
"In closing I would like to point out that our class may not give the most money to the Foun­dation, but I'll bet we're the most prolific bunch that ever graduated." 
Thanks, Les, and blessings from a fellow hackster —I'm sure you appreciate that there's nothing more ghastly than sheets of white space waiting to be filled with type. Incidentally, Les' address is: 
Press Department National Broadcasting Co., Inc. Sunset and Vine HoUywood 28, Calif. 

It was great newi about Cleve Carey. I don't know whether or not Les is right about our being prolific, but as a class %ve certainly have our good share of representatives in the priesthood. 
And, apparently, a sizeable number who took the vow of silence. 
If you think I am fooling about how much effort some people ^vill go to in order to spread the good Avord, here's a letter all the way from Pakistan! It's from BROTHER FELIX, C.S.C. I was dc^ lighted to receive it, and hope It cner^es some of you *33's who are closer to home. Brother's letter is as follo^v's: 
"There are three members of the class of 1933 that I know oL here In East Pakistan. (Brother is writing, incidentally, from St. Gregory's High School, Dacca, E. Pakistan.) 
"One Is BROTHER JUDE, vice prindpal of the 
"Brothers of Holy Cross here in East Pakistan. He is at present very busy opening up a new founda­tion here in Dacca, a technical or trades school and an English school. He was headmaster of St. Grcgor>'s High Scliool here from 1&40 to 1950 . . . and those ^vere troubled times which Included J^>­anese invasion threats, famines and riots. In 1950 he was a delegate at the General Chapter of the Congregation in Rome. 
"Another is BROTHER UGUORI, who came here In 1939 and has worked zealously as a teacher 
 welcome party" are John Robinson, *28, prcs., 
 attended the affair. 
the old gang for lumJi or dinner during those days. It is 23 years since I have seen many of them, and \vc would be able to toss a lew mem­ories around. One thing that may deter me is my inability to get a hotel rescrx-atlon. (I wrote Tom airmail last night that I have a rescr\-ation for him). I will arrive in Chicago early Sunday eve­ning and will leave for Rochester the night of the 10th. Best regards, Jim, and I hope to sec you in one month." If all goes well, the next ALUM­NUS •will carry a story of this session. 
*'My wiic and I spent a week at the Wagon Wheel Lodge at Rocklon, Illinois, near Rockford which means RED O'CONNOR to all '31ers. Red 
•and his wife came out for an interesting evening. I hope wc didn't keep him up too late as he was leaving the next morning for the Purdue game Red is quite active in the Rockford ND Club and sees BOB JOYCE often. Bob ^^-as ill at the time and could not join us. Red came through with a note upon his return and reported seeing NICK BOHLING and RED MEAGHER, the Mankato flash, pal of VINCE PONIC. Red has a son who is a Sophomore at ND- He must be older than O'Connor because his daughter is only 15. (This is confusing with two Reds), but an>-way Red Meagher promised to make every effort to be on hand for the 25th Reunion. I hope that Mankato Red will come through with a letter soon. JOE DEEB u-as also seen." 
Please send news on any of our class seen at Pre-game Smokers or games you are attending. 
DR. THOMAS H. VAUGHN, Wcc president of the Colgate-Palmolive Company in charge of re­search and development, attended the First Inter­national Detergent Congress in Paris, France, Aug­ust 30-Scptember 5. 
JIM McQUAID recently received a fine feature story write-up in the Indianapolis Star magazine. Jim. as everyone knows, operates a magazine store in Vincennes, Ind. Last season Jim coached the freshman basketball team of Vincennes University. 
HAROLD J. STELZER has been promoted to an executive merchandising position as head of the \'acuum cleaner and sewing machine bu>-ing depart­ment in the Chicago headquarters of Scars, Roe­buck and Company. He and his wife, Ruth, are the parents of two daughters, Carol Ann, 10 years old, and Marcia. 4. Tlie family home is at 173 North Laportc, Chicago, III. 
1090 James K. Collins 
•Ta ^ 3336 Kcnmore Road Shaker Heisrhts, Ohio 
FLO J. MCCARTH Y is presently employed with the First New Amsterdam Corporation, 120 Broad­way, New York City, in public relations and sales administration. His home address is 55 Prescott Avenue, Bronxvillc, N. Y. 
REV. VINCENT P. BRENN.\N has recently been appointed by Bishop John F. Dearden in Pittsburgh as executive 5ccretar>- of the new "Pittsburgh Catholic" newspaper. This is the official weekly of the Diocese of Pittsburgh. To enable him to assume 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY—(Photo at left) 
his new responsibilities. Father Brennan was re­
cently relieved of his duties as assistant at St. Cole­
man's Church and has taken up residence at St. 
Kicrnan's Rector>-, Lawrenceville, Pa. 
HENRY THOLEN wos elected assistant secretary 
and assistant treasurer of the Hamilton Watch 
Company at the annual meeting of tlie firm's 
shareholders. 
HUGH BALL and MAC McCARTHY each have 
a son on the campus as freshmen in the University 
tliis fall. Hugh's son is on the freshman football 
squad. He is aptly nicknamed Colonel by his 
Kentucky colonel father. 
JACK SCANLON is living in Lorain, Ohio, and 
is operating a furniture store. He is married and 
has four children. 
BILL DE ST. x\UBENS, who spent his freshman 
year with us in Freshman Hall, was recently elected 
national president of the American Overseas Club. 
He is living in Washington. 
109 9 Joseph A. McCabe I TO O 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 
DOUG GIORGIO, M.D., is now residing at 1018 Lincoln Avenue, £\'ansville, Ind. He resigned from the Na\y and expects to be in group practice of anesthesiology at St. Mary's in E'^'ansville. 
FRANCIS CAWLEY is \ice-president of the Mag­azine Publishers Association, Inc., a trade organiza­tion representing 125 publishers of 400 leading magazines. He Is in charge of the association's Washington office. 
This class received the supreme accolade recently when LOUIS BUCKLEY, '28, class columnist ex­traordinary, wrote me to commend the class for getting behind the recent campaign to elici: class neu*s. I thanked Louis and expressed the fcr\'ent wish that under ordinary circumstances the '33's would show just 1/10 the enthusiasm of hts class­mates in passing along news. 
Because . . . don't get startled, now fellows, you're too near tlic edge of the bed . . . but the postcard inflation is over . . . we're depressed again. Since the last card drifted in, some six months ago, I've had two letters. I suppose I shouldn't complain too loud and long . . . there have been occasions when all I got from ND and ND men were appeals to contribute to the Foun­dation. A very laudable cause, and I do what I can, but this can hardly be called correspondence, even on Devil's Island or the state pen. 
Don't you ever wonder about your old secretary, fellows—^jcst a-sittin* here starin* at his t^-pcwriter? Postman staggers by the %\'indow, loaded with letters for neighbors, who attended Wisconsin, Northwest­ern, Concordia, P.S. 18, and other institutions where they teach guys and dolls how to write— and to DO SO. Maybe your wives would like to drop my wife a line, telling what's new with the old man, how many kids, latest casualty list, etc? How about getting the kids to dash off a letter to your class secretary for their next English home­work assignment? Or—hold your breath, gang— 
 with five new students at club's "freshmen 
and Bill Gallo, *52, vice-prcs. Group of recent alunmi on right 
H^lrt Dam* Alumnus, NovembeT'Deeember, 1954 33 
both in Dacca and in our \'illa5e scliools. He 
sure gives the boj-s in his dass a good education— 
and good dtsciph'nc! 
"Tlic third '33 is nij"sclf. After spending three 
years teaching in Memorial High School in Ex-ans­
\'ille I was sent to India where after ten years of 
wear and tear I u-as given a turn home in the 
U.S.A. I enjoyed being back, \'isiting my parents in Chicago and working on the Bengalcse. (After spending 50 years in the 'Windy Cit\-' motlicr and dad sold their home and motored out to San Diego. Calif., in 1954.) Brother Liguori and I landed back in Dacca on Christmas, 1948, and since then have been teacliing Httlc Moslem box's and praying that Mar>' will find some way to lead them to her Son. 
"Wc should not be discouraged when wc remem­ber tliat there arc about 300,000,000 Mohammedans in the world. But w-c should be stimulated to offer our prayers and sufferings for them so that God will send more workers into the missions to teacli them, that the\- may believe in His Son.*' 
I don't see how any of us can help but be ex­tremely proud that our class includes men like Brothers Felix, Jude and Liguori, who have volun­tarily given up the comforts of home, the intrinsic love and longing for one's native land, to labor so grindingly—and what must seem futilely—in a land where it is death to brush against a countr>-­roan who happens to belong to another sect. Xo one can appreciate what a vast if hidden comfort it is to even the least religious among us to lift our eyes to the horizons and see the countless crosses lifted by church spires against the sky. Tlic>' do not always betoken Catholic churches . . . but ihcy do stand for Christ, and the reminder that 
He loves us and is with us always, however we feel about Him. So . . . whether you ever get up enough cncrg>* to write or not, at least remem­ber your classmates in your prayers—especially the religious. It may well be tliat Xotre Dame's glories have been earned for her in the distant fields of Bengal and other missions. .-\nd especially ask the help of Mar\-, Xotre Dame—Our Lady. 
P.S.: Three-cent stamps are still selling for three cents . . . and it only needs one for a letter. 
m 09 A '^* Edward Carey I yoH 18843 Inglewood Avenue Rocky Bjver, Ohio 
Those who did not attend the Reunion in June may be surprised at the new moniker above these notes. During the proceedings, in a rigged deal if ever there was one. a new class secretary was "elected." ED MAXSFIELD, for many years an able and diHgcnt recorder of *34 affairs, got in­volved in a series of transcontinental moves, and when even the U. S. Mails could no longer keep up with the mo\-ing van, Ed hollered for help. For a job well done. Ed, the thanks of all of us. Ed now resides at 343 Sansome St.. San Francisco, and is going to set a good example for his classmates by dropping a note to his unfortunate successor concerning current events and the Mansficlds. 
The Reunion was a dillv. and arrangers BOB CAHILL and MOOSE KR..\USE were largely re­sponsible. Caliill alone got three letters of appre­ciation, which is pretty good considering the nois^­hall tlie>' housed us in. It was great to renew so many old friendships. Tliose who missed a swell week-end arc hereby given ample notice of the return engagement. It's the Twenty-Fifth Reunion in 1959. 
Recent inter-citv moves reported to the Alumni Office include: GEORGE BLAINE, Butler. X. J., to Washington Comer Road, Bemardsvillc. N^. J.; ART DOERFLER, New York City to 216 Mont­gomer>* St., San Francisco, Calif.; FR. SEBASTLVN EGAN, O.F.M., Denver, Colo., to St. Francis Mon­astery, 135 W. 31st St., Xew York. X. Y.; BILL MCCARTHY , Chicago, III., to 520 Xorton St., Pituburgh 11, Pa.; JOHX O'CONNOR HI, War­ren, Ohio, to 3842 Montevista, Cleveland 21, Ohio; CHARLEY SCHWARTZEL, Louisville, Ky., to 1004 Pcrr>* Brooks Bldg., Austin, Texas; BOB SULLI­VAN, Merrick, L. L, X. Y., to Ass't. Supt. .\YS Agric & Industrial Scliool, Box C, Industr>', X'. Y.; DICK BURKE, Clucago, 111., to 4204 Main, Skokie, III.; REV. JOSEPH GIERUT, Detroit, iOch., to 420 Xortb, iOIan, Midi.; GENE HEALY, Brook-Im, N. Y., to 111-13 75th Road, Forest Hills, L. I., X\ Y.; HAROLD SPORL, Xew Orieans, La., to 123 Xicholson Avenue, Waveland, MissLssippi. 
TOM STRITCH, head of the Department of Journalism, proWded the background material for 
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-'Decembfr, 1954 
gjsponiCHTfllUlllllllS 
ROBERT L. REYNOLDS, '49 
The managing editor of the fast-rising Catholic periodical. Jubilee, is a Notre Dame graduate, Robert L. Ref­olds. A native of Cincinnati, Bob moved with his family to Rye, N. Y., at an early age. 
Bob's career at Notre Dame was in­terrupted by 21 months of ser\'ice in the Army. Upon graduation he as­sumed tlie post of editor of Today, a nationally distributed magazine for high school students. AVhile under Bob's guidance. Today won a Gold Medal at the National Catholic Press Conference for "Best Magazine of Opinion, Thought, and Comment." 
In 1952 Bob journeyed to New York where he learned of plans for Jubilee. He was named managing editor last December. Since that time Jubilee has been selected as the leading Catholic magazine in the countr)' at the Catho­lis Press Association meeting. 
In 1951 Bob married the former Mar)' AValter of New York City. They have two boj's, Mark and Bobby. 
author Fred RusscIPs fine article on XD in a recent Saturday Evening Post. 
Too late for reunion: A letter from ROBERT K. KELLEY of L. A., Executive Sccretarj' of Califor­nia's Board of Arcliitectural Examiners: "I hope all my old classmates arc enjoying themselves, and would like to say hello to FATHER JIM MOSCOW, RALPH ELSE, PAUL KANE, L.VRRV O'NEILL, VINCE REISCH.NLUs', CHARLEY SCHWARTZEL, NORB Rc\SCHER and ever^' single old classmate." 
HARRY DESXOYERS of White Plains, head of Electrical Technology at Westchester Community College, is still in there pitcliing. Aided a young friend in enrolling at ND in September. 

saisss6BmSesmtimsm 
At the Tctas game: MSGR. ED SEWARD, FATHER JIM MOSCOW, BILL MOTSETTT and JOE HANRATTY. 
Your secretary invites cacli of you to contribute to tliis space. Just grab a pen and give us a lew lines about yourself, family, business, or classmates. Don't be bashful, keep in touch. BOB CAHILL has been kind enough to forA%*ard numerous ex­cerpts from his personal mail from '34*ers, but he u-ams that despite his many cliarms, the \*olume just might drop off a little after the football season. 
Aside from you gu>'s we know are still breath­ing, perhaps a mention might pry three cents v.'ortli out of sucli Long-Timc-Xo-Scc characters as: BILL BARTLEY, DAN BRICE, GEORGE BRU­NO, JACK CAR.MODY, BOB COLGAN, FRANK CR^VWFORD, CHARLEY COMISKEY, JIMMY DUNNIRW, JOE DURKIN, CHARLEY FINKEL, JI.M FORREST, HOWARD GILLESPIE, BOB HANLEY, R.\LPH HULLER, JOHNNY RUPPEL, CILVRLEY SCHWARTZEL and the YOUNG BROS. 
We also have a few far-flung members wc would like to have check in occasionally, for instance: FR. LOUIS BARCELO and PAUL McNLVNUS in Puerto Rico; LEO BRIAS, Barcelona; JOHN KIN-SEhlA and the YRIBERRYS, Lima; CHUCK LITTY, Montewdeo; ERNEST MASSI.MLNE, Co­lumbia; ED .MULVIHILL, Caracas; CIHRLEY QUIRK and CHARLEY SCHWARZ, Curacao; ST/\N R,\NSBERGER, Recife: BILL SHERIDAN, Canal Zone; and VINCE REISCH.\fj\N, West Virginia. 
Don't forget to send your duxk to the Notre Dame Foundation. 
no yeAR, REUNION JUNE lO-M'IX 

lll^ p Franklyn C. Hocjirtater I ya a 1327 Pcnhvood Road Baltimore 12, Maryland 
TOM MASTERSOX has recently been appointed Chief of Bureau, ^\ssoc!ated Press, in Stockholm, Sweden. He has been on assignment in Paris, France. Tom will super\'isc ^\P operations in Sweden and Finland. 
JAMES A. SHEILS has recently formed a law association under the firm name of Shells, Halter. McGoldrick and Fallon with offices at 11 Broad­way, New York City. 
Here is the second report to the nation on the doings of the *35 crowd as tlicy look fonvard to tlu: twenty-year hump next June. Since we last went to press a second mailing on the question­naires has gone out. The response was pretty pathetic -though. Wc picked up only -lO more men in the second round. Our present total stands at 178—tliat's a long way from the 250 wc had hoped to hear from through the questionnaires. It also throws our our "50 names per trip to press" that wc had planned. 
But we'll keep to the fifty and hope those mim­eocd sheets will crawl back over tlie months to boost the total. We can't avoid wondering about the returns from certain ii:cn, so we list a few in tlic hope it might stir them into action. ANIicre arc the sheets from: ARa\DI, ARGUS, ARN­HEFFER, BOXAR, BRAGG, BR,VYMER, BREEX, BRETT, BRIED, CVREY, XEIL CROWLEY, COXDON, DOOLEY, DINEEX, DA\1S, DUX^N, EDWARDS, ERDLE, ENGLISH, FAIRHEAD, FOLEY, FLANAGAN, G.VFNEY, GLv\NZ.VER, GERVASIO, GROSSO, HARGROVE, HENDELE, HOGAN, ISSELMANN, JACOBI, JORDAN, JAEGER, KALEY, KE.\TING, KEEFE, KIRLEY, KOPPELBERGER, L/VNDMESSER, LVYDEX, LEFERE, LOVE, MARGRETT, ME,\D, .MELIN­KOVICII, MON'TEDOXICO, METTLER, MIL­LER, XEESOX, NER,\D, NANOVIC, NADE^W, O'HARA, O'NEIL, 0'.MEARr\, PETRILLO, PET­TINGILL, PICKrVRD, PONS, PREZEBEL, QUIG­LEY, QUIRK, RE.VNEKA.MP, R,\INEY, REESE, SANDER, SEE, SHEEDY, SEY.MOUR, SLUSZKA, TIMNEY, TOUSSMNT, TYLUTKI, UNDERKOF­LER, VAIRO, VANDERHEYDEN, VERBANC, 
I f 
NEW YORK CITY—Approximately 200 members and friends attended the New York club*s annual meeting at Ebbcts field. Pictured in photo at left are (L. to R.) Tony Earlcy, secretary; James J. Clynes, Jr.; Bud Mulvey; John Duffy, co-chairman of the event; and George Olvany. In photo at right are Mary Elizabeth Toohy, Edgar Kobak, Mrs. Kobak, Mel Hartman, James McGarry, John MiUcr, 
James A. Mulvey, Alfred Ncsensohn, and Louis J. Bums, Jr. 
• WACKEiafAX, WACKS, WALTERS, WASHKO, % AVIGGINS, WITCHGER, WURZER, YATES, I YOUNGERMAN and ZIMMERS???? 
•. If any of you men who have already registered ? in with your sheet sec the above listed and others ; —give them a pep talk about "getting on the beam i for '53." How about sending back the qucstion­= naire. even if >t>u have to take it ofT the wife's ' scrap paper heap where she keeps her grocerv" } Its! material? 
With the arrival of 40 more questionnaires the statistics have changed slightly. We now have 161 married, 9 single and 7 religions. Tlic cliildren stand at 490 and 5 more on the way. The girls continue to outnumber the boys by 255 to 235. Occupations have shou'n some changes too, as follows: There are now 3 Brothers; 23 law>*ers; 24 engineers; 11 teachers, 73 business men; 8 bankers; 16 insurance men; 3 newspaper men; and a new classification of U. S. Customs and Xaluralizatioii Service with 1. The rest remain as reported earlier. 1 During the past few months we have had some correspondence with the .Mumnl Office regarding tlic return of families. Tliis matter came up due '. to the interest of about ten men in bringing their r wives and children back for the reunion. Your SVrribc's position on the matter is fairly well known. ; Ife promoted the return of wives in '40 and of : families in '50. You may recall that something like 100 wives came back for tlic five-year himip. In '5C families came from as far off as Ha^vaii. -•' Personally we arc in favor of family reunions but > we know this is not the feeling of many of our men. 
! Ill addition to our mail discussions with the boys on the campus, we had an opportunity to go over the matter with our class prcxie, BILL RY/VN, when he w<>s through Baltimore recently. Tlic c.insensus seems to be against the family reunion idea largely because of the problem of working out a program for the girls and the ofTspring. We admit this is a large question mark. 
A iLcnid objection whicli has been raised is that lodging—the University could not put up the family. \Vc do not think any of us ever had that notion in mind. After all there are hotels and mnteli aplenty, not to mention the Morris Inn. 
We feel strongly that the return of families should NOT be discouraged for ALL the reasons which all of us have who wish to bring our gangs back. That should be our own pri\"atc affair! What we arc tr>'ing to say is that no program will 
i\ be arranged for them and they will have to shift for themselves, while you arc reutuoning. Further­more, you had better make your rcserv-ations at your favorite hostelry* as soon as possible so Mom and the kids arc not without shelter. 
And now, one last item before we start on the *'Call of the States'*—the Reunion Committee! Tliis too has been a subject of correspondence bet^\'ee^ Baltimore and the Alumni Office. It has also been discussed with BILL RYAN. Bill is in the process of making some South Bend contacts so that the Local Chainnan and his C'-mmittce %vill be estab­lished long before Girisimas. WE DON'T WANT 
TO AVAIT UNTIL LATE ^VIN•TER—\VE WAST 
TO START NOW! ^Ve have not heard about his 
success in lining the men up but we believe he 
will do well. 
So many of you have pleaded for a repeat on '50 
"without fJiange" that wc think It is important to 
tell >-ou that tlie 520 Unit Fee s>-stcm went into 
effect a year ago. This covers your weekend and 
includes: room, ^Uumni dinner, beer, box lunches. 
Reunion cap, the Friday night party, etc It is all 
arranged by tlie University on a mass basis with 
tlie idea of relieving individual class committees of 
a lot of grief, headaches and trouble which they 
experienced in the past. 
As with all sucli plans, compromises must be made along the line. Tlie "perpetual buffet** we had in '50 may not be possible under the Unit Plan. Wc do not know. The little extras whicli your committee gave you may also be limited. More on tins business as wc come up with our next cohimn. 
In ihc meantime, however, if any of you feel inclined, as was C^VMILLE GRfWEL, to make an advance contribution to the planning and imple­mentins of the '35 Reunion, wo would be happy to have your checks. Out of the blue, Camille-sent a check for $10 and an enthusiastic note. Believe us Camille, we really appreciated your good wishes and your good money. The committee thanks you for setting the pace. 
For those who wish to follow in the Gravel footsteps, please make your checks payable as follows: '* '35 Reunion Committee'* and send them to us. We'll forward them to tlie Chainnan as soon as he is named. Ymi don't have to send ten —one dollar from many will grow into large pro­portions. If >-ou want to make it more than a single—use your own judgment. Remember though, these advance contributions do not get charged against the S20 Unit Fee. That is paid at the time you register on the campus! 
And now to YOU! 
JOHN x\NNAS, 901 Covington Rd., Birmingham, Mich., is In sales. IIU wife was not listed by name, but they have four childrciu daughters— Virginia, 14; Sally, 13; and Margaret, 3; \rith John, Jr., holding his own at 6. He would like ns to "Make" BILL MURTHiV come to the re­imion and wants to hear from him. John vrill be there in *55. 
DICK BALLIET, 123 S. Applcton St., Appleton, Wis., is an insurance agent and hotel manager. Wife, ^larideth, and he have 2 boys: John, 10 and Louts, 7 as well as 3 girls: Ellen, 4; Bonnie, 2 and Jill, 8 mos. Dick says "maybe" to his possible return to the campus in *55. 
JOE B&VCH, 3629 Airline Highway, Metalrle, La., is In credit and collections. No name was attaclied to Joe's spouse but they have managed to produce a daughter: Pegg>-, 7 and two sons, Joe, 6 and Peter 4. Joe gave us something of his history for ^v•hich we arc grateful. 1935-37, professional baseball in New Orleans and Gainesville, Fla.; 1938-41, Asst. ^^gr., Personal Finance Co.; 1942-47, F.B.I. Agent in Cincinnati, Grand Rapids, New York and New Orleans; 1947 to present, part o\*-ner and Credit Manager of Beach Bros. Furniture Store and Airline Finance Co., New Orleans. He would like to hear from '35 men In retail furniture and appliance business as well as the small loan field. As for reunion, Joe says "possibly.*' 
JOHN aVRBINE, 67 Ives Ave., Rutland, Vt., is a lau'^'er in general, corporate and Insurance practice. Again, wc have an unnamed wife but the Carbines have come up %vith a son Stephen, 12 and a daughter Sandra, 9. John wants to hear from TOM PROCTOR and GEORGE DE.MErRIO from whom he last heard over the years. There was an "if possible" noted for reunion. 
JOE CORDARO, 2616 Live Oak Ave., Waco, Texas, is laboratory- director. Public Health Branch Laboratory, Texas Public Health Dept. at 'Waco. Joe and wife MJTI have managed to bring the world five children. There are 3 boys: Tom, 12, Jack, 5 and Larr>', 8 mos.; and 2 girls: .-Vnn, 7 and ^fary, 3. Joe \vouId like to hear from any of his gang in the College of Science. He ^^•ent to Texas in September '38 and taught at St. Edward's U. in Austin and at the University of Texas while doing graduate work for two years. Started work­ing for the State Health Dept. in 1940 as bacteri­ologist In charge of the Diagnostic Di\'ision. In addition to his ^%'ork with the State Lab. he Is also now City Bacteriologist for ^Vaco. Joe will be with us next June. 
JIM CORRIG.VN, St. Louis U. High School. 4970 Oakland Ave., Saint Louis 10, Mo., is now Rev. James B. (S.J.) Jim was ordained in *49 and sends the following note in part: "I've been work­ing in this school since I finished my training as a Jesuit In 1950. T^vo years as Assistant Principal and now I am completing my first year as Prin­cipal. Hard work, but I enjoy it. I am grooving old, gray and fat at what I smugly hope is the ULSual rate. My brother John, ^vho has twin girls about 3 years old, lives at 228 W. ift. Airy Blvd., Philadelphia 19, Pa., so I see him seldom. Saw my first football game on campus since I became a Jesuit last season when wc played Na^y. I got a kick out of going back as a priest and saying Mass in Dillon Chapel.** Jim, unfortunately, uill not be back for reunion. 
JOHN CRxV.MER, RFD I, Cape St. John. An­napolis, Md., Is a newspaperman ^vritlng a dally Federal employee nc%vs column for the ^Vashington Dally News since '41. John*s ^vlfe is Lucille and tliey have two daughters: Kathleen, 13 and Molly, 
6. John writes that he would like to hear from ED KENNEDY, once of Lorraine, Ohio. Your Scribe met John at the local ND Club picnic this summer and got a fill-in on his questionnaire notes. After a period at NT), John fii^shed up at Univer«ty of Portland. He handled their publicity for 7 years, student and graduate. In addition to his column mentioned above, John syndicates dally, weekly and seml-^veekly columns In the same spe­cialty to papers throughout the country. 'With Jerry Khittz of tlie Washington Post he played a 
Xotre Dame Alumnus^ November-December, 1954 35 
substantial part in smashing the Communtst-domi­
natcd United Public Workers Union. John \vi]\ 
not be there in '55. 
JIM CRONIN, 7343 Merrill Ave., CWcaso 49, 
in., is a partner in the Kniclccrbockcr Roofing & 
Pa\'inff Co. ^Vife, Jean, and "the roofer" have 
four youngsters. The 3 girls arc: Patrida Ann, 
lO; Sheila Mar>*, 4 and Emily Frances, 3, Jimmy, 
Jr. is 8. From his notes it sounded as tliough 
Jim has been seeing a number of tlie Chicago 
crowd r^ularlv. (Ho\s- about getting >*our buddies 
—WALTERS, BREEX, BURKE and DOYLE on 
the writing beam?) ">rost Assuredly" Jim will be 
there in '55. He was "boss man" of the Chicago 
Alumni Club one year recently. 
"TOXY" CROWXEY, P.O. Box 210, Salem, 111., is President of McNamar and CrowIc>% Inc.—steel plate fabricators. "Tony" dcser\'cs some special mention for his two questionnaires. And wc got fresh news on eacli! Wife, Lilyan ifay, and the **stecl magnate" have two daughters: Colette Marie, 11 and Mar>' Anne, 7 in addition to *'BilI,*' 9. Numbers 4, 5 and 6 were lost due to tlic RH factor. "Ton>-" would like to hear from BILL OTOOLE in Pittsburgh. He is liWng in E^'ansWllc, Ind., where lie maintains a sales office. "Tony" is at tlie plant only half tlic week. A majority of their products arc used in production, storage, refining and marketing of crude oil and its derivatives in III., Ind., Ky., Ohio and Midi. 
ED CULLEX, 38 Blackstone Rd„ X. ^Ve>-mouth 9, Mass., is a dolliing buyer with Browning King, Boston. Florence and Ed have 2 daughters: Paula, 13 and Dianna, 8. Ed would Hkc to hear from JOHN PETTIXGILL! (So would we!) He will be back for reunion and wants the old committee to carry on. (Get some of your cronies bus>' with tlieir questionnaires, Ed!) 
DAN CUXHA, 1503 Fifth Avenue, Water\Iiet, 
K. Y., is basketball and baseball coadi at Siena College, Loudon\'ille, N'. Y. Mama's name is Doris and she has helped Dan with daughters; Patricia Ann, 14; Barbara Teresa, 12; Marj' Jean, 6 and sons: Daniel J. Ill, 10 and Darid Wells, 9. ("Queens high in a full house!") Dan says he started at Siena (5 miles out of Albany) in *41 as basketball coach and Phy Ed instructor. From *43 to *45 he was in Xa\y V5 program at Sicna, followed by one year in regular Xaxy. He has just completed his tentli year at Siena and has now traded baseball (\*hidi was dropped) for golf. Dan hopes to be with us in June. 
BROTHER CHARLES, C-S.C, I3&45 Riverside Drive, Sherman Oaks, California, is Prindpal of N^otre Dame High School. His "family" consists of 27 Brothers and 920 boys. Brother writes that XDHS is the onlv bo>-s* high school in the San Fer­nando Valley. (If MAURICE TOMBR.\GLE is witli you. Brother, trv- to pr>* a letter out of him for us!) Wc tliink the best suggestion yet for re­union came from this correspondent—"accommoda­tions for 'wheel diairs' and 'stretcher cases.* " 
JOE COXLOX, 832 Xcw Scotland Avenue, Al­bany 3, X. Y., is a chemist, working as Area Man­ager, Renssclecr Plant, DyestufF and Chemical Divi­sion of General Aniline and Film Corp. Joe, and wife Margaret, have three children: son William, 13 .and 2 daughters: Andrea, 10 and Jane, 6. Joe wants to hear from JOE KXAPP. (Why not tell CASAZZA to get in his questionnaire, Joe?) See 
you in October and in *55! 
JOHN CON'XORS, 2006 Berg Rd., Buffalo 19, 
N. Y., is a regional manager in a sales and finance outfit. And Jack is one more of our single men! He wants to hear from BERNIE O'BRIEN and he'll be there in '55. (If you make Baltimore, see you at the Cocktail Party, Jack!) 
"JOSH" D'AMORA, 134 Runn>-medc Avenue, Wayne, Pa., is soil engineer with the Pennsylvania Department of Highv*-a\-s. Louise is Mama to daughter Rosemarv-, 12; and sons: Alfred, Jr., 9; Robert, 5 and X'idiolas, 17 mos. **Josh" wants to hear from FRANK G.AUL and "BUD" BOXAR! (Wc already said we do too!) After coadiing and teaching four years, "Josh" was with tlic Navy in materials during ^var. He has been eight years witlt the Dept. of Higlnvays. Insists that he has lost weight and your Scribe will be "Tlie Fat Man of the '55 Reunion." That means "Josh" will be with us! 
HURDIS DAUSMAN, 224 N. Montgomcr>- St., Bremen, Indiana, is owner of an appliance shop. Mrs. "D " is Rosalie. And it is reported tliere arc three girls chalked up. Cinda Lee is 7; SandaDee is 5 and Ronda DcLee is 4. Hurdls would like to hear from LEONARD SIEKE.MEYER and BOB JASSOY. The report is that our correspondent has ou*ncd and operated an electrical appliance busi­
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1954 
JAMES R. BACON, '37 
James R. Bacon, newspaperman, part-time actor, and Notre Dame graduate in 1937, has spent the last six years as correspondent for the Hol­lywood bureau of the Associated Press. During that time Jim has covered news from tlie movie capital and has written Sunday features on movie and TV personalities. 
After leaving Notre Dame Jim worked on the Lock Haven, Pa., La­porte, Ind., and S>Tacuse, N. Y., news­papers. He first joined the AP in Al­bany, N. Y., as a political writer cov­ering Gov. Thomas E, Dewey and, on his visits to Hyde Park, the late Presi­dent Franklin D. Roosevelt. 
In 1948 Jim was assigned to the Hol­lywood bureau. One of his first stories on the coast was tlie Kathy Fiscus trag­edy. Incidentally, Jim is credited with being the first national writer to make note of Maril)*n Monroe's potentialities. Jim also covered Presidents Truman and Eisenhower on dieir trips to Cali­fornia. 
Jim made his debut on the silver screen with a "bit" part in Three Ring Circus, Since tlien he has appeared in a film with Edward G. Robinson. 
Jim is married to the former Thelma Love of South Bend and St. Mary's, and they have two children. 
wfBr-mrr-TrBVa ¥iTTf°°*°-**" 

ness since graduation, and it has been very success­ful. Hurdis look tlireo years out for the service. Mark another "present" next June! 
EMIUO DeLIA, 749 Mt, Prospect Ave., Newark 4, N. J., is a doctor. We don't know the branch or spedalt>'. Afairicd to Anita and together they have acquired: Louis, 11; Julian, 9 and Emilio, Jr., 
7. Tlic doctor will be with us in '55 and he would like to hear from JIM COLL. 
ART DEMERS, 367 ^Vorthington St., Spring­field 3, Mass., is President and Treasurer of Artted Co., Inc. In addition to wife Caroline, there are four daughters: Caroline Ann, 7; Louise Marie, 5; Evelyn Joan, 3; and Diane Frances, 3 mos. Art is one of those coming to reunion \rith his family. He reports that he has been in electronics for 19 years. His present company was founded in *45 and manufactures coil assemblies. (We are looking forward to seeing vou in Baltimore, Art!) 
GEORGE DEMETRIO, 2245 Central Park, Evans­ton, III., is a restaurant operator and consultant. As a matter of fact he "is" Hotel Restaurant Co. on Wacker Dr. in Chi. No report on Mrs. *'D** but there are tliree little d's: Ty, 12 and Tom, 7, along witli Cathy, 10. George also owns the Opera Lounge in the Civic Opera BIdg. where he says he will have an amnle supply of cold Martinis on hand for the OUT-OF-TOWN boys attending the twentieth reunion. (Tlianks for the cigars, George!) Needless to sav, this man will be there in '55! 
BILL DONAHUE, 14843 Main St., Har\e>-, III., is an attorney. Don't know who helped Bill in his production problem but he managed to acquire: Bin F. Ill, 15; James Midiad, 10; Kathleen Ellen, 11 and ^^a^>• Beth, 4. Bill was back to the dass of '33 twentieth last year and got ahead on his catching up. He'll be there in '55, rounding out the '35 contacts. 
MEL RICH, 929 Acada Ave., Whittier, Cali­fornia, Is Managing Editor of the Whittier News. He and Billie are raising a family of three! Patrida Ann is 14; Michael John is 12 and Timothy Paul is 8. Mel, and his four Riches are coming East for reunion. His top-notch suggestions for that gala event are: "one more night raid by those rowdies with whom I shared the fourth floor in Howard Hall and one more crack at pinochle diamp ROCK SCHIRALLI." Md would like to hear from MIKE SHEEDY and "BUD" FREEXt.\N. .\fd look a job on the Whittier News when he left us at the end of our fourth year. He worked his \vay up through cub reporting, covering a beat, sports editor and dty editor to his last promotion in *52. Sandwidicd in one >-ear ('41-'42) as Editor and Publbher of the Cadie Valley Clarion in Preston, Idalio. He and \«fe Billic arc two of the few natives in Whittier. 
MAURICE ROARK, 332 E. Jefferson St., ifa­comb. 111., is production manager for the Illinois Electric Porcelain Co. ifauric's wife died on May 13, 1953, leaving him with their two daughters: Susanne, 11 and Martha, G. He hopes to be back in '55. 
BROTHER ROM.VN'US, C.S.C., Holy Trinity High Sdiool, 1443 West Division St., Chic:^o 22, 111., is their Librarian. He will be with us in '55. 
MATT R0N20NE, 2514 Pleasant Plain, Elkhart, Indiana, is coadiing at the local high school. He and wife Virginia have son Mike, 10 and daughter Kristin, 8. ^latt is head track coach as well as assistant football and basketball coach. He has been tcadiing for 18 years. 
ED (NED) ROW/\N, 581 Gibson Avenue, Kings­ton, Pa., is resident adjuster for Kemper Companies. Ned and Jane have son Edward, Jr.—no age stated. ^Vc'll sec the Rowan man in '55. 
AL RUBLY, 1155 N. Main St., Rockford, III., is a daims adjuster. S^»Irley Is Al's wife and there arc no children—'*yet**! Al ^^'ouId like to hear from RAY KEATING and PHIL KIRLEY, also ED VAN HUISSELING. If all goes well we'll have Al back next June. 
BILL RYAN, 1620 East Washington, South Bend, Indiana, is Assistant Secretary' of Associates Invest­ment Co. BUI is our President, elected in '50! Tlic R>*an5 (Mama's name BUI?) have two daughters: Katliy, 12 and Karen, 6. There is little to tell about Bill, even if he did attadi a letter to his questionnaire—the contents were trial balloons for reunion. He has been with the Associates for lo tliese many years, and he and his committee set a standard for reunions in '50 that will be hard to beat! (Mr. President, we await your plans for '53!) 
JOHN V. RYAN, 851 Kimball Road, HlglUand Park, 111., is Personnel Officer, U. S. Immigration and Naturalization Scr\*icc, Chicago District. In addition to wife Bernadette, there are 3 sons and 1 daughter as follows: John HI, 14, David H., 12, and James B., 11 with Anne, 17. John wants to hear from BOB SIMMONS. (Give ^Wth more tlian an Xmas card, Bob!) We have here one of our first husbands, wc think, as John has just com­pleted 19 years with Mama: August I3th. He was in the service for five years, and upon retirement in *47 went into Federal Civilian scmcc. First with the Air Force, then Cixil Aeronautics and now with Immigration and Naturalization. Yes, John will be there in June. 
MITCH SALEH, 1820 Pratt, Apt. A, Dallas, Texas, is design engineer. Chance Vought Aircraft, Inc. in Dallas. Mitcli and wife Adeic have daugh­ter Helen ifarie, aged 2. There is a plea for a \TOrd from JOE LYNCH and CLARENCE PICK­ARD. (Wc could use a word from them, too, Mitch!) Mitch says he was released to inactive duty by the Na%y in April *53 after 21 months as Lt. Commander in the Xaxy Dcpt. The Tyler, Texas man will come North if possible next year. 
MIKE Si\NTULLI, 12 Stuyxcsant Oral, New York 9, N. Y., is in the U. S. Internal Revenue Service. Keeping house for Mike is \^*ifc Lavinia. Tlirec years ago they adopted Mike, Jr. He is pushing four now. Mike will be on campus with bells on in '55—and we*II be looking for those snapshots of "little Mike!" JACK BAKER you arc being paged for a letter to Mike! 
CHARLIE SCHILL, Beaver Dam, Kentucky, is cliief engineer for Ken Coal Company. Jaync, who is Mrs. "S " and Charlie have Micliael, 11 and Teresa Mar>-, 9. Charlie has been in Beaver Dam for sue years. ITc*ll be with us in '55. 
ROCCO SCHIR/\LLI, 243 East Ridge Road, Gar>-. 
Indiana, owns a men's clothing store. "The Rock" 
and wife Katherinc arc raising two pair: Antoin­
olte, 16 and Vera Maria, 10; along with Victor, 
14 and Samuel, 13. "Rock\-" would like to hear 
from MIKE SANTULLI, JACK ROBINSON, JOE 
JOHN and DICK EMMERLING. Just tr>- to keep 
him away from that reunion! 
ROY SCHOLZ, 11 BIythewood Road, Baltimore 10, Nfd. is a ph)*sician and surgeon specializing in ophthalmology. (He's an eye man, men!) He and Susie have three of a kind and a single: Fred, 8; Bobby, 4; and Dick, 2; with ^[artha coming along at 6. Roy is past president of the local ND Club, Mar>*Iand Foundation Governor and a man of many interests including sailing. He keeps a good garden, too! Check him in for '55. 
BILL SCHRODER, 2628 Habcnham Road, At­
lanta, Georgia, is an attorney. He*s another "wife­
less" man with a family of four. There are t%vo 
bo>*s: William, Jr., 13 and Tim, 7; and two girls: 
^^a^^- B., 11 and Belle, 5 mos. Bill will be there 
in June. 
BOB SILVNAHAN, 24950 ^furray Drive, Mt. Clemens, Mich., is /Vssociatc Manager of S. S. Krosgc's largest Dollar Store. It is located at 1403 Woodward Ave. in Detroit. ^Vifc Rose and Bob have four children: Ava Maria, 12; Jcnncth Ann, 8; Susan Parricc, 4 and KcWn Anthony, 6 mos. Bob would like to hear from FRANK SHAY, JIM SULLIV^VN and BILL KENNEDY. Bob joined the Kresgc Co. in September *35. He worked his way up tlirough the levels becoming a store manager in Lexington, Ky. in 1948. There 

followed managerships in Belleville and DanWlIc, Illinois and tlien Detroit. Incidentally, the four youngsters saw light in four different towns: Buf­falo; Canton, Ohio; Lexington and Mt. Clemens. (You are in our class. Bob!) He'll be counted in in '55. 
HARRIS SHEPARD, 14 Bilodcau Court, Bur­lington, Vt., is General ^fanager, Burlington DiW­ston. General Ice Cream Corp. Madeline and Harris divide their time between John Davi'd, 11 and Anne ^larie, 8. Harris wants to hear from 

T. J. (TOM) FLYNN. Starting with General Ico Cream Corp., a subsldiarj* of National Dairy Products, Inc., in 1936, Harris was a salesman until '42 when he became a branch manager in Plattsburg, N. Y. Returned to Burlington as Pro­duction Manager in *47, becoming General Man­ager in '51. Next June will see him THERE! 
JOHN SL.\TTERY, 916 Grand Marais, Grosse Pointe Park 30, Mich., Is Manager, Common­wealth Loan Co. No name for Mama, but the>' have two children: John, Jr., 13 and Mar>- Mar­garet, 2. Jack missed the '50 reunion but he's coming in '55. 
ED SMITH, 1522 Miami St., South Bend, Ind., is with tlic Studcbaker Corp. And here is another baclielor! You sec, Ed, you arc not alone! Ed would like to hear from FRANK SINNOTT. Sec you in '55, Ed, and thanks for your good words. 
TOM STANDISH, 2106 Swift St., Houston 25, Texas, is Superintendent of the Rate and Re­search Dcpt., Houston Lighting and Power Co. 
wfiHTfliuninus 
JOSEPH P. CATTIE, JR., Ml 

A busy young Philadelphian is Jo­seph P. Cattie, Jr.j '41. Joe served with distinction as an officer in the Navy during AVorld War II. He returned to the home front to take over the opera­tions of Joseph P. Cattie Bros., Galvan­izing Works, where he is currently a director. 
Joe has branched out far afield lately as is attested by his positions as Presi­dent of Cattie Bros. Steel and Iron Storage Company, President of the Cattie Steel and Metal Products Com­pany, and Treasurer of Decor, Inc., Floral Importers. 
Despite his varied activities, Joe has been one of Notre Dame's most ener­getic alumni in the Philadelphia area. He served as president of the local ND club from 1950 to 1952, as one of the members on the Board of Governors and as chairman of many club activi­ties. 
Joe and his wife, Gail, are the proud parents of five children. 
Tom and ivife EHzahctli have sLx children. Pardon us, maybe by now It is seven! An>-way, at last recording: Richard, 13; Tommy, 4; and Walter, 2 line up against: Ann, 15; Louise, 11 and Susan, 8. Tom reports he has been with the same company since graduation, and he plans to come in '55. 
CLIFF WELSH, 206 Dau-son Ave., Boonton, N. J., is Superintendent of Time Standards Dept., Boon­lonware (plastics—surely you use them in your home!) Sally cliccks in as Mrs. "W" and then there are daughters: Mar>* Lou, 12 and Martha, 
10. Cliff w:mt5 to hear from the Paducah men, DUDLEY, YOUNG, etc He will try to make reunion. 
FRANK HERRON, 23W N. Normandie, Spokane, Wash., is a partner ID a jewelry Co.~ He and vnfe, Edna, have three sons: Donn Robert, 15; Frank Richard, 11 and David Anthony, 22 mos. Frank . would like to hear from TONY ANGLEY. The 

distance from the West coast is going to be too much for Frank to make reunion. "-' 
JOHN HIGGINS, 1946 Elk Ave., Potts^dlle, Pa., is an insurance and real estate broker. In addition to Catherine, the "better-half," there are three boys and a girl as follows: Johnny, 11; Mark, 4; Christopher, 9 mos. and Kathleen, 7. It's been eighteen years since we heard from the Pottsville "flash" and he sent along a letter to help fill In the gap. From the letterhead we gather that our John is follo^ving in his Dad's footsteps and busi­ness with the title of Veep and Secretary of the family enterprise. John will be there in *55. 
TOM HILS, 332 Hulctt, Schenectady, N. Y.. U Assistant City Editor of the Gloven-ille, N. Y. Her­ald. And here we ring up the third bachelor for this report. No news from Tom except that he will **try to make reunion." 
CECIL HOBERT, 866 Helmsdale Road, CIe%e­land Hts. 12, Ohio, is Loan Officer with the State SaWngs and Loan Co. of Cleveland. Cecil has a ^v^fe but we don't know who she is. However, to­gether they have Alary Elaine who is 3. He would like to hear from BILL KEEFE and BILL O'CON­NOR. ^\'e nearly fell off the desk chair when that Ilobert questionnaire arrived. It was the fint \vord we ever received from the man w*ho sat next to us for four years at ND. Our "nudge mate" said he spent fifteen years with the Central National Bank of Cleveland and tlien transferred his bank­ing activities over to his present company. JOB SOTAK, '40, is Exec Veep and their attorney. Cecil xWU try to bring him back in '55 for his 15th. 
FRANK HOLAHAN, Room 2225, Federal Re­5er\'e BIdg., Washington 25, D. C, has just recently become Review Examiner for the Board of Gover­nors of the Federal Rcser^'c S>-stcm. He and Louise have three cliildren: John Frank, 11; ^VH­liam, 7 and Rita Louise, 8 mos. Frank reports that commuting to Pcnnsyh'ania is over and he will be permanently located in Washington where he hopes to start building a house. (Sec you at the Navy-game, Frank, and you better firm up that June-trip!) 
LOU HRUBY, 743 Washington Road, Grosse-Pointe, Mich., is Assistant Sales Manager of the Lamp Diriston of General Electric Co. In Detroit. 'Wish we could get a name for Mama out of Lou, but they have three daughters and a son, as fol­}owsz Mary Lou, 11; Anne, 11; Martha, 8 and Joseph, 9. Lou reports that after eight years in-California ('40-'48), he was in Cleveland until '52' when he moved to Detroit. They have their own '35 Club in Grosse Pointe with RAY BRETT (who lives on the next street), TOM MORAN, GENB WTTCHGER, TOMMY THOMPSON, and JACK SLATTERY. Lou will check in in '55. 
DICK HYDE, 3338 Major Ave., Minneapolis 22, Minn., is in the real estate dept. of Shell Oil Co. Again, no wife for this poor man and his two sonsr Steven, 5 and Richard, 3. Dick reports he raises the largest flowers in his county. Bring some sam­ples in '55, Dick. Maybe wc can have a contest? 
PHIL JACOBS, 611 Kimball Ave., Alexandria, La., is a general insurance agent. He and wife,. Jeannctte, have two children—son, Philip Heathy daughter, Deborah Ann—no ages stated. Both >*oungsters are adopted. Phil is on the Executive Board of Louisiana Area of Insurance Agents and past Chapter Chairman of American Red Cross. Count Phil *'in" for next June. 
JIM JENNINGS, 506 J. P. White BIdg., Roswell, New Mexico, Is an attorney. No report on the lucky woman who married the long, lean man from the "Southwest" but they have five children,, including a pair of t^vin bo>-s (Thomas and Tim­othy) who are 3. The fill-in comes from James T., Jr., 10, John, 6 and Mary, 9. Jim will be comins^ East for the reunion. 
JOE JOHN, 2015 Robin Road, N. Augusta, South Carolina, is Production Supervisor, Savannah Rix-er Plant, of the E. I. DuPont plant operated for the Atomic Energy Commission. Another **no report" on the good ^v•oman but we did hear about the 2 sons and the daughter—^Joseph R., 14; Ste\'en H., 10 mos.; and Andrea, 11. Joe won't be with us in '55 unfortunately. They have been 2 years in 
S. Carolina—their fourth move since Joe joined uf^ with DuPont in '35. 
ED KILMURRAY, 3149 S. Superior St., Mfl­waukce. Wis., is an attorney. He and Irene have two daughters: Kathleen, 2; and Maureen, I. Ed \vouId like to hear from GEORGE KRUG! (So would we!) Ed practices law In Racine but lives 
Notrg Dame Alumnus, November-DecembtTt 1954 ZT 
ROCHESTER—Dean La%\Tencc H. Baldinger was UND Night speaker. L. to R.: Baldinger, John Heagney and Robert Odenbach. 
ia ^filwaukec^ where Irene tcaclics art. Look for-3. Andy writes that he hopes to "have a plane 
•u-ard to seeing the Kilmurray man in '53. load for reunion!** Here is a man who will always TO^f LaLONDE, 800 Prairie St., Glcncoe, 111., 
enjoy life—give a listen: "working hard .. . much continues selling those shoes for humans—are they 
to do around town here—civic, religious, political, still the tiny-tot \'aricty for ivhicli you were so 
etc . . . Every once In a while run off to Cali­famous years ago, Tom? It is tlie Green ^o e 
fornia, ^fcxico, Nassau—wherever it's relaxing." 
ilanufacturing Co. of Boston. Here is another CHARLIE M/VHER, 138 NE 92nd Street, Miami 
"spirit wife'* who with her embodied husband has Shores, Fla., Is a civil engineer acting as construc­
two cliildrcn: Steve, 6 and Jeanne, 5. No news tion engineer and estimator for J. Y. Gooch Co., 
from Tom except that he will be on deck next June. Inc. of Miami. He and Mary Frances have a son, 
BOB LEE, 155 Townsend Ave., New Haven, Charles Joseph, 7. Sounds like Charlie Is a busy 
Conn., is President of the Lee and Mason Agcnc>' man—*'am an officer of the Greater Miami ND of Conn., Inc., and Exec Veep of Bankers Credit Club and have cliarge of construction on com­Scrv'ice, Inc. No ^^^fe reported but there arc two mercial building projects in 6 cities on the Florida pairs of children: Robert III, 12; Richard A., 9; East Coast extending as far as Jacksonrille. Also Linda M., 4 and Diana E., 2. Bob sends no news listed as a retired rcsen-e LCDR by Naxy CIril except a "yes" for '55-Engineer Corps." Charlie says it*s a little early to plan for reunion for him. (Hope you can made it, 
ED LeJEUNE, 1966 Robin Crest Lane, Glcn­

man!) 
•vicw. III., is a civil engineer for the Inland Con­'Struction Co., Inc., working as Estimator. As of And that comes to sixty! As wo started to write the mailing of tbc questionnaire he had been with on this hot, last Saturday in September we decided them 5 days. We arc running into a mess of to raise the reporting spree ten. Due to the Tom anonxTHOUS wives—here's another. But there arc Collins, no doubt! This makes 110 men who have four of a kind and a pair of the next generation. been officially reported—68 to go. How about Sheila is 13; Maureen, 10; Dennis, 12; Timothy, 7; giring us more copy? Brian, 6 and Shannon, 2. Ed \^'ouId like to hear 
\Kc were going to mention VINCE MURPHY In from BILL BERNARD. After about 8 months in the beginning but decided he dcscr\*ed a place all Tucson, Arizona working for the Utali Construc­to himself here at the end. VInce was one of the 

tion Co., Ed moved back home this spring. He'll first to return his questionnaire back in late Spring. 

register in for the twentieth. 

In response to the question about his coming to 
CARL LINK, 4212 Grecnridge Road, Pittsburgh, reunion, he said, "SURE"! Alphabetically he Pa., is an insurance broker. His wife is Dorothy would be reported on next time to press. But we and they have two sons: Tliomas, 6 and J. Timothy, feel he should be given a special mention now! 
10 mos. No particular news from Carl but he'll Vic had just mailed in our last copy %vhcn word be among us next June. came through from two sources of his sudden death JOHN LOCHER, 619 Higley BIdg., Cedar Rap­in Cleveland from a heart attack. He is sui^ived ' ids, Iowa, is a lawv'cr. In addition to Esther, his by his wife Geraldine. To her wc extend our per­
•wUct there arc: Anne, 11 and John Franklin, 8. sonal and class sympatliy. Vince was lovcd by all 
(John you are not the only scliolastic half-breed of us. He has been mentioned In many question­among us. W'e are glad to have you, as well as naires as tlie one person a classmate wanted to see 
•the others!) Count John in for '55. in *55. AVc know he will be there, loo! 
JOHN LYNCH, 180 AVoodrow St., AN'est Hart­We \v^nt to express the condolences of tlie class ford, Conn., is an insurance and real estate broker. to ilic families of RUSS O'SHEA who died In He and wife Mildred have three diildrcn: Mary Cairo, III., on March 19, and MAURIE LcFERE Jane, 9; Teresa Anne, 8; Brian Kiarnan, 5. John who was killed In an auto accident near Lconldas, is with Travelers and will ^velcome an application Midi., on August 2. from an>'one who can afford to buy his product. Tills represents five men of *35 who have been He'll have a fist full of forms with him in *55. reported deceased in two editions of the ALUM­
JOHN MADDOCK, 4552 Fair^ray Drive, Los NUS. Our lines will be thinner In '55 because of Alamos, New Mexico, is property officer for Los their absence. Alamos Sdentific Laboratory*. (John, we had CARL ESSER requested us to send a question­trouble classifying you, but after consulting the 
naire to TED SANTANIELLO who was Carl's 
DOME we put you under "business." Were we roommate for four years but who received no wrong?) John and Pauline have a daughter Nancy, sheet in the first mailing. We immediately dis­10. They* arrived in Los Alamos seven years ago. 

patched one to Ted but have not received a reply. 
John is on the staff of the University of California We'd like to count you present for *55, Ted. How (keep it quiet) which is tlie contractor for the about returning the material? 

A.E.C. under the name of Los Alamos Scientific Also, JOE SCHMIDT dropped us a note the firstLaboratory*. Check him In for next June, if all of September asking for a questionnaire and ex­goes well. 

pressing his desire to come back for our twcntletli. ANDY MAFFEI, 153 Park Hill Avenue, Yonkers, Wc ara asking the Alumni Office to send one to you 
N. y., is an attorney. (He ^\-as a dty councilman direct, Joe. If you don't get it, let us hear from last we heard if our memory serves -us correctly.) you. By all mc:ms, you are counted in! Vfith wife, Vinccntclla, Andy has t\v-o girls—^Rose­That's it for the October I deadline! The snow­mary 7, and Gabridle, 5; and a son, Andrew, Jr., ball is be^nning to form. It*s about big enough for 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1954 
• " •-— ^-g»o*.--^"*n»>r:««---*"-'^^'^;>*i*»ift^»fT^»^y-*n 

the lower part of tho snowman. Let's start an avalanche so wc can complete the upper part of the body and the head! It's up to you! 
A. H. Moorman 

1936 1708 Industrial Bank Bld$r. Detroit 26, Michigan 
109 7 Paul Foley 
Executive Vice-President 
MadVIanus, John & Adani, Inc. 
Bloomficid Hills, Michigan 
One thing about this class; rain or $hinc we hit 

to all fields. Let anybody who will walk up and 
take picks on this group for sheer vcrsallllty In 
figuring out ways to proride three hots and a flop. 
GEORGE J. BONFIELD is down in St. Augus­

tine, Florida, engaged in what he describes some­
what cryptically* as *'the shrimp boat industry.*' 
think this is somehow* tied Into Tin Pan Alley. 
George reports that he has been married since 
1S42 to a southern belle from the Scarlet O'Hara 
country around Augusta, Georgia. Wien he 
checked in, way back in March, they were able 
to report ^ children. 
Well above the grapefruit belt, PAUL H. KANE 

is an armored car operator whose main hobby is 
pistol shooting. In spite of these martial pursuits, 
Paul reports six children and adds this puzzling 
little note which wc leave to you: "I hope the 
trend toward youth in the matter of football coadies 
pays off. My wife is not a football fan but I want 
to take her to one of our games so she can experi­
ence some of the excitement that goes with It.*' 
Working the other side of the street, so to speak, 
is MORRIS LEONARD MORRISON (MOSKOW­
rrZ ) who runs a collection agency in South Bend. 
Back In *37 this would have kept a guy really 
running. Even the bill collectors were keeping 
pretty shifty in those troublous times. Morris re­
ports that he was accepted for medical school but 
thought better of a medical career and Is now hap­
pily settled in with a family of two children. 
Still another specialist Is our old associate ED DAHILL who is a mathematics teacher up In Pronncctown High School in Massachusetts. Ed married a St. Mary's girl (Catherine Fink) and when he last pundied his card with us had three children. Ed took his Masters In Education at the University of Ne\*' Hampshire in 1950 two years after he was married. Tom Foy was his best man. Way* down at the bottom of the note I discover this line: "Have been In fish business since IW9.'* ^Vhat? Then note the envelope says: "Seafood Packers. Inc." ^fastcrs degree. Indeed. 
HAROLD JOSEPH DRUECKER of 1706 West Sycamore Street, Kokomo, Indiana, is ''selling foundry sands and supplies, brokering and jobbing same'*—that's a long run for a short slide. As of June 29 last, Joe was the fatlier of two children. Joe, with the conscientious feel for the past that could come only from the sand business, is still worrying about whether a landlord wc shared in the matzoh-ball belt In Chicago has ever figured out the fast count wc gave him on the rent back in 1937. Believe me, Joe, he was money ahead getting rid of us. 
(Look, all the way down to here and not a single lawyer!) 
VIC WOJCHIHOVSKI, as of last February had rounded out eight years in Baltimore as a coach at Mt. St. Joseph. Vic handles basketball and football as well as teadiing assignments. He has three children and reports that he has seen only two dassmates in years: LARRY D/VNBOM, then in the D. C. office of FBI and JOHN L.\UTER who was in Baltimore for a Na\y game. 
Because the percentage of diildren per paragraph has been staggering in this piece, we will now strike a note for WTLLLVM J. GOMBER who states simply: "Not married, liring good and will prob­ably die a rich old man. Have recently* bought a six-room house in CrcssklU, N. J., but spend my summers at a lake resort where I keep a small bungalow.'* Just to keep all the bases covered, Gomber is a food salesman for Crosse & Blackwdl. Now that, wo dalm, is having things taped about as neat and tidy as it can be done. 
Here's another good way* to do it: ED SHIELDS, as of February at least, was in Gaspc, Quebec, Canada as an oU well drilling contractor. His wife and two daughters are with him. He reports that he Is involved In a "large and interesting oil exploratory* program" and follows by say*ing "haven't found any ND men in this part of the w-orld." First time we ever thought of drilling for them. 
In our last column \vc reported on JIM BACON and some goings-on with the Gahor family. A letter from Jim naturally avoids tliis distasteful subject but mentions that he ran across STEVE FINAS and TOMMY FOY at a recent XD rally in Los Angeles. Steve, his admirers will be glad to know, is a salesman with RCA. Brother Foy was still Mr. T>.A. in New Mexico. For those who arc interested in who is currently crushing the Brown Derby, u-rite, wire or phone Jim Bacon, 4635 Halbrent, Sherman Oaks, California. 
JOHN W. SCHULZ is \ip in Missoula, Montana, in the beer distributing business. Jolm made the move after 15 years of coacliing at Great Falls (Mont.) Central II. S. John, who is married and has two sons and two daughters, would like vcr>' much to hear from MARK KERWIN of Denver. Incidentally, John reports he used to sec GREG RICE f>ccasionalIy but has lost track recently. He also reports that ED SIMONICH used to be out in Montana in tlie coaching fraternity but sb'pped off to Iowa or some other unlikely place. 
Personal note to former roommate: I will un­doubtedly be in Chicago for the next automobile show, whenever that is, clieck me at the Drake. Tliis note, of course, is intended for ROBERT L. GROGAN, 8530 W. National Avenue. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. (Please copy, Bonfield) Bob is sales manager of Petco Corporation and general manager of a family of three girls and a boy. Bob reports— and he is unique in tliis—that he has seen (or heard from) MILLER MALLETT—berthing the queen Mary with his bare hands, no doubt, 
BILL "BUTCH" BRUNO is coacliing and teach­ing social studies at /\sbur>* Park, N. J., where his teams have been spectacularly successful. In 1953 his footballers were State Champions. Butcli reports he sees quite a few of his old teammates including BOB AVILKIE, ANDY PILNEY, WAYNE MILLER and others. 
Now for the medical corner: 

JAMES W. DOWNEY is still functioning on two fronts: /Vssistant Chief Surgeon of the K.C.S. Rail­road and in private practice in Kansas Cit>', Kan. I am sure the slight storm which Jim reported in his note to me last March has long passed, but I pass it along simply to give courage to those of us who arc old non-professionals: "One week ago my partner fell and broke his hip so I must take on his job and his patients . . . my boy has chicken pox and my wife and daughter just came down with mumps . . . yesterday was Ash Wednes­day and I have given up smoking and alcoholic beverages." May we recommend a good doctor? 
BILL LIESER is a pediatrician, practicing in Canton, Ohio. 
Here is a private note to DR. WILLIAM F. NARDONE, Niagara Falls, Ne\v York. Did you get the requested word from Patti Page? No job too big. no job too small for an enterprising, well-connected Class Secretary'. 
And now, as we approach the front of the cliurch we come to this issue's news from the clerical classmates. 
REV. JOSEPH L. PO\\'ERS, C.S.C., is a member of the Department of History- at University of Portland in Oregon. After ordination in 1941 he studied and taught at Notre Dame until 1945, studied at Har\*ard and ^finncsota and after a return stint at Notre Dame moved West in 1951. (It was Fatlicr Murrav's Sociology, Father.) 
FATHER WILLLVM C. KUNSCH is teaching at Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa. 
Explanatory* note: Blessed as T am with the rich mountain of questionnaires, I find that I am work­ing the vein like a kid u-orks a candy counter— vigorously but not very systematically. Therefore, do not hold a clock on me. Sooner or later cverj­scrap in the file will be printed. By that time guys u'ith seven kids will have eight; bachelors will know all about diapers and some of our fast mov­ing boys will be reported at obsolete addresses— but there will be no blank columns. 
Thus endetli the fourth canto. 

193 8  Charles  M. Callahan  
I 7^ o  Sports Publicity Dcpt.  
Notre Dame,  Indiana  

William p . O^Toolc 1939 176 Hillside Avenue Rochester, New York 
JAMES G. McGOLDRICK has recently formed a law association under the firm name of Sheils, Halter, McGoldrick and Fallon with offices located 
at 11 Broadway, New York City. Jim was elected 
to the Board of Directors of the Hall of Fame, 
recently. 
EUGENE D. F/\NNING» '53, is no%%- assodatcd 
with his brother, ED, in Fanning Chevrolet, Inc., 
at Gtaicva, 111. 
Before we get into this deathless prose, wc think 
it well to report that JIM MOTSCft\LL has re­
peated in writing a verbal olTer he made at the 
recent reunion: On receipt of a sizeable number of 
pictures taken at the get-together he will print a 
brocliurc for class distribution. 
To date, however, he has been sent only five 
photos—all from BILL Cx\SEY of Kansas City—and 
he needs a lot more. So, let's help him out, and in 
so doing help ourselves. Send your pictures—prints, 
not negatives—to JIM MOTSCHALL, c/o Singer­
\fotschalI Corp. (lithographers and printers, just 
between us), 1(X)90 West Chicago Blvd., Detroit 4, 
Michigan. 
Many thanks again, Jim, for your generous ofTcr. 
Wo know the class will echo that sentiment. 
Tlie response to our recent .questionnaire has been 
gratifj-ingly large. So much has come in that we'll 
have to save most of the details for subsequent 
issues. But we think, even though parts of it be 
old hat to a few, that we ought to list for the 
benefit of all just what each of the respondents is 
doing. So here goes in alphabetical order, and 
check your guns at the door-
JOE BEINOR is running a supermarket in Kan­
kakee, 111., and tr\-ing to get SL\ tickets to a home 
game so that he can take the family. . . . BING 
BINKOWSKI, a sausage manufacturer in Nor\valk, 
Conn., recently ran into JIM McGOLDRICK, 
RUSS KING, and "TARZ.\N" ROSS (Mg as ever, 
Bing says). Bing couldn't make the reunion, but 
was glad to see the class so well represented. You 
were. too. Bing, via JACK SULLIVAN. . . . DICK 
BROWN is president of Culllgan Soft W*ater Ser\­
ice in Marietta, O. . . . CHARLIE BUDDEKE 
is an insurance agent in Chicago with Ivo W. 
Buddekc Co. . . . DR. BILL C.\LL/\ILVN is a 
pathologist at St. Francis Hospital, Wchita. . . . 
CHARLIE aVRROLL is a chemical engineer at 
Merck & Co.. Sunbur>-, Pa. 
JOHNNY CELLvV is vice-president of Cella \'ine­^-ards in Fresno, Calif. . . . JULIE CHRISTIxVN-SON is a professional fund raiser at the United Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit. . . . DR. MIKE CLOUSE Is clinic superintendent in Somer­set, O. . . . JOHNNY COLLINS is operating the John T. Collins Scr\icc Station in Missoula, Mont. . . . EM.METT CROWX left the coaching field two years ago to devote full time to insurance ^vork. He's now manager of the life and disability depart­ment of a Louisville agenc>' after being assistant manager elsewhere. 
VINCE DOLL.\RD, the old middleweight cliamp, is a sales representative for Genesee Brewery in Rochester, N. Y. . . . BILL DONNELLY, director of publicity and student publications at St. Cloud (Minn.) State Teachers College, is co-author of a 550-page freshman English text, published last spring by Prentice-Hall. . . . DR. WALT DRURY is a surgeon in Dillard, O. . . . DON DUFFEY, a design planning supervisor in DuPont's engineer­ing department, Wilmington. Del., will be at the Pcnn game. . . . JOHN DUNPHY, vice-president of the Parker Co., a Boston investment trust, lives in AVellesley, ^fass. 
BEN EILERS Is with armv ordnance In Roches­ter. . . . Credit CHARLIE ENGLEHART, a hide-broker in Sioux City, la., with the understatement of the year: He says nothing exciting has happened. Yet he ^vas PRONOUNCED DE.\D at Edgewood Arsenal from heart attack, and spent a year at Walter Reed. After that, wc can understand, life would have few thrills. 
JERRY FALLER is a funeral director (funny the way these names come alphabetically, Charlie) and furniture merchant in Frv-burg, Pa. Tlic firm, his family's, is in Its 100th year. . . . D^\N FALSIONI is an attorney in Lockport, N. Y. . . . /\NDY FELKER» assistant secretary-treasurer of Felkcr Bros. Mfg. Co., Marshfield, Wis., reports that HUGO HILDEBRxVNDT Is heading the Hllde­brandt Sausage Co. in Cleveland and that BERNIE FEENEY is a professor at Loyola University, Chicago. 
FRiVNK FITCH has his own accounting firm. Fitch & Co., in Sioux City. . . . HARVEY FOS­TER Is chief of the Boston ofHcc of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. His past assignments have taken him all over the country- where he has fre­quently encountered '39ers. Harvey, it will be re­membered, was national alumni president a few years ago. . . . TED FRERICKS, an altorney, is 
PROVIDENCE—T. Russell McGrath, '29, president of the First Federal Savings and Loan Association of Providence, R. I., has been elected president of the Northeast-em Federal Sa>'ings League, N. E. trade organization of the Federal Savings and Loan Associations. 
%vith Mickley and Frericks in ^farlon, O. . . . BOB GALLi\GHER, independent consulting engi­neer in Dubuque, la., cabled ALFONSO URIBE in Bogota, Colombia, to be sure to make the re­union, but Alfonso reluctantly reported he wouldn't be coming up to New York until September, and then only to bring one of his four daughters to-a heart specialist. 
FRANK (BUD) GARTI^VND, an executive at Atlas Foundry, Marion, Ind., sees ED SADOWSKI, now at R.C.A., and GEORGE MILFORD regu­larly. . . . TOM GILLESPIE, patent attorney at Kappers Co., Inc., is secretary this year and next of the Notre Dame Club of Pituburgh. . . . MOOSE GOTTSACKER, an Insurance man in She­boygan, Wis., wants to know why PAUL DONO-VtVN wasn't at the reunion. 
CHARLIE HAYES is director of engineering at the White Cap Co., Chicago. He says LOU ESSEY, pride of Mxxton, N. C , is a successful dry goods merchant and importer, sub, and that Brotlier Albert Is his South American representa­tive. Brother Albert apparently got farther on his thumb than Walgrecn's. Hi, LouJ . . . BILL HERRICK is owner of Hcrrick's Food ^larket and Locker Plant, Martinsville, W. Va. . . . HENRY HICKEY is territory- manager for the Nestle Co. in Rochester. 
JOHNNY JAEGER is a research project engi­
- neer at Oscar Mayer & Co., Madison, Wis. . . . DR. HENRY JOHANTGEN Is going great guns in Rochester. . . . DR. JIM JOHNSON, an ortho­pedic surgeon in Colorado Springs, reports that his practice also is growing. . . . BOB JOSEPH is an Insurance agent in Cincinnati. . . . JOE JUDGE, a psychiatric social \vorker in Troy, N. Y., wonders if anyone else in the class who majored in sociology-has made a career of it. If so, Joe would like to­hcar from him. . . . DR. FR.-\NK KELLY of Richmond tvTitcs that RUSTY RILEY and BOB SHEPPARD are doing well In surger>* and insur­ance, respectively. Any connection, Frank? . . , AL KIEFER has just celebrated the first aimlver­sar>' of his own drug store in Dade City, Fla. . . . FATHER IRVING KLISTER, who said Mass for us during the reunion, was named cliancellor of the Superior, V/U.j diocese last spring. He is also-diocesan director of the Holy Name Union. 
PAUL KLUDING, district manager of W. L. Mead, Inc., a trucking firm connecting the MId%vcst and N'ew England, reports from Dedham, Mass., that JOHN JAXTHEIMER, who recently finished a two-year course at Harvard, is a lieutenant-com­mander in the na\*>*, and has just left ^Wth his fam­ily for Panama. . . . GENE KOCH-ANOWSKT 
Noire Dame Alumnus, November-December, 1954 39 
is a sales representative for Eversharp Inc., in whom he'd like to hear from. He says, "E\-cry-18 months he was made director of community or­South Bend. . . . JULIE KRISTAN, proprietor body!" . . . JIM .MOTSCHALL, as earlier noted, ganization at headquarters in New York, from of a retail groccrv' in Wallingford, Conn., says is in the market for photos taken at the reunion. which his work carries him all over the country, BILL PIEDMONT is working for the K. of C. He's \ice-presidcnt of SInger-Motschall Corp., De­as tlie NCCJ has 62 offices. . . . BOB REILLY Columbian Squires, and ART McGEE, a neighbor, troit. Get those prints off to Jim today. He'll is associated with his father in the Miami Beach is district manager in Mcridcn for Metropolitan do his part. Awning Co. . -. GREG RICE Is still working on Insurance Co. JERRY NAUM^\NN Is assistant superintendent records. He's an accountant with Louis Marx & 
FRANK L.\UCK is in sales work for Midwest of Becclicr, Peck & Lewis, wholesale paper mer­Co., New York, and Greg's and Mary's firstborn 
Advertising Co. in Indianapolb. . . . BOB LIN-chants in Grosse Poinic Park, Mich. . . . DR. AL was to hit the tape in September. Congratulations, 
SEV, an attorney In Grand Rapids, is looking for­NIGRO is the big man in the Nigro Clinic, Kansas folks! 
ward to senng classmates at the Michigan State City. He and his associates were all ori^nally from BILL RICKE, southeastern sales manager of the 
^amc to which the Notre Dame Club of Grand tlic Mayo Clinic. .\1 runs into LEO HALL and Plomb Tool Co., has been elected president of the 
Rapids Is running an excursion. . . . BILL MA-ED QUIMBY in New York and occasionally Atlanta Club of Notre Dame. He hopes to reach 
HONEY, captain and dash man on some of JOHN LLOYD WORLEY from Tulsa PHIL NORTH his former home, South Bend, for the Southern 
NICHOLSON'S greatest track squads, is running modestly describes himself as a neu'spaperman, Cal debate DR. CHARLES (RUSTY) RILEY, 
again: this time for reelection as county attorney In but we note be is also vice-president of the Fort Richmond surgeon, entered pri\'ate practice four 
Phocnbc, Ariz. Good luck, T-Bonc! Worth Star-Telegram. Phil says he is a profes­years ago after rcsldcncj- general surgery since 1946 
PHIL MALONEY, a G.I. loan policj- officer in 

sional Texas non-oilman. in Richmond's V. A. hospital. . . . STEW ROCHE the Veterans' Administration, Washington, is look­FRANK O'L^VUGHLIN, a professor at Hobart 
Is an attorney and bank president in Hart, MTch. ing forward to seeing some of the old gang on and William Smith colleges, Gcnc\-a, N. Y., won a 
His financial house has a branch in nearby Pent-Navy and Pcnn game week-ends. . . . GEORGE Fulbright scholarship a year ago for a year's study 
water, which. Stew sa>'s, works out well for him in MALOY, who i^-as forced out of school In 1937 in Italy, and has just repeated. He won't be home 
his law- practice. . . . BILL RUNGE, investigator with a second mastoid operation, has been operating until midsummer 1955. . -. DON O'MELIA, 
with the wage-hour di\ision of the U. S. Dcpt. of ' his own insurance agenc>- in Clyde. N. Y., for 16 Rhinclandcr, Wis,, attorney and leading father of Labor, was read>ing, with KEN LJ\WS and BILL years, witli the exception of 26 months in the army. the class—to' the best of our knowledge—with nine 
SCHRADER, a special train from Lafayette to . . . FR^VNK MASTRIANA, an attorney doing cor­offspring, has promised a yearly report on *39 \-aca-
South Bend for the Purdue clash. poration and real property work in Youngstown, tloncrs to the popular Rhinelander resort area. The wife of JACK EARh RYAN, producUon O., ^vould like to hear from anyone else similarly Inddenlally, sex'cral class members, including the project engineer with Aerojet-General Corp., Nim­engaged. redoubtable JOE RYAN of Buffalo, have eight chil­bus, Calif., was hit a year ago by a 10-ton truck, FR^VNK NL\STROPIETRO is operating a restau­dren. .. . It is hardly news that DICK O'MELIA but has fully recovered. Jack ^vas formerly with rant with his father and brother at the heaxily 
is a lawyer on Sen. Joe McCarthy's staff and was American Potash & Chemical Corp. for ID vears. frequently seen, and occasionally mentioned, on the 
traveled Intersection of routes U. S. 3 and 20 in . . . CHET SADOWSKI, builder and land devel­Auburn, N. Y. . . . R.\LPH MAZ.\R is In the 
tcleWscd hearings. Have to dispose of your General oper in Grosse Pointe, ^tich., constructs 40 to 50 Motors stock, Dick? 
research sales department of Suift & Co., South houses a year, and what leisure time he has is Bend. . . . J.\CK McrVULIFFE, salesman and ap­BILL OTOOLE, a thwarted engineer turned taken up with his family of seven. . . . PETE praiser for Eagan Real Estate Co., S>Tacuse, N. Y.'s newspaperman, is a teclinical copy^vritcr and ac­SANDROCK is a telephone exchange engineer with largest, sa>T JACK COLE is now with the telephone count man for a Rodiestcr advertising agency. . . . 
the Bell system In Portland, Ore. . . . DR. SAL company in Mishawaka and ART PHILLIPS Is FRf\NK PARKS, one of our rare bachelors, Is an 
SCf\RLATA is a general practitioner in Flushing, teaching at Notre Dame. Long Island. . . . WIN SCHULTE is an engineer 
attomcj- in Rice Lake, AVIs. . . . FRANK PAYNE, BOB Mca\RRIER has his own photographic in Cleveland law partnership with his brother Fred, 
at Lockheed Aviation In South Pasadena. . . . JOE studio in South Milwaukee and six fine subjects *42, has brancli offices in ElvTia, Nonv-alk, and 
SCHULZ asks with some asperit>- ^vhy several fel­lows at the reunion, including Joe Schtilz, were not aged 3 to 10. Number 7 was due to be overexposed Ashtabula. Frank Is permanent corresponding sec­just before press u"me. . . . JOE McDONALD, retary of the Notre Dame Club of Clc\'eland and 
listed in the latest ALUMNUS. Sorry, Joe; we recovering from the reunion and hurricanes Carol sent us a rash of '39 news that will have to await 
didn't make up that list. (Ed. note: Listing was taken from records at General Registration in Law and Edna, is operating his own pharmacy* In Riun-the next issue. 
Building.) 
ford, R. I. Thinks that hurricane T for Tina, If it 

JOE PEDRUCCr, onetime cn\y of the class be-develops, should be renamed Tallulah. . . . JOHN­cause cx-cn as a senior he didn't need a razor, is a DAN SHEEDY, account executive In B.B.D. & 0*s NY McGUIRE is \ice-president of the Tlior Power theater manager in Springfield, 111. . . . BOB Buffalo office, has been made a full commander In Tool Co., Chicago. PICK, secretary and works manager of the Pick the na\y. , Until recently he had been squadron 
DR. DICK McKAY is specializing in internal Mfg. Co. and General Door Mfg. Co., says he'd commander at Niagara Falls since the war. Tlie medicine in Dubuque. Hc*d like to hear from like to hear from anyone in the class sttll alive, scrambled eggs look great, Dan. an>'one heading his way. . . . DA\TE MESKILL, not in jail, not broke, and not in the army. Don't FRED SIMON's manufacturing plant for mops with General Electric since graduation, with the be so fiiss>-, Robert. . . . JOHN PLANALP, a and brooms in Waco, Texas, was almost totally 
exception of three and a half years In the na\-y, theatrical booking agent in Dcs Moines, named his destroyed by last year's tornado, but has been re­is now manager of G. E. fan sales. . . . BILL first son Bob so that the kid's first and last names built. He'll be in Dallas for the SMU game. . . . ME'i'RAILER, a chemical engineer, is doing re­could be spelled forward or backiv'ard the same. ED SIMONICH is athletic director and football search and de\-eIopmcnt work for Esso Laboratories That tlicatrical air must be heady stuff. coach at Hcelan High School, Sioux City. . . . 
LOU RADELET, teacliing sodology at Notre 

in Baton Rouge. . . . MARK MITCHELL, father FRED SISK, district attorney of Colorado's 16th of eight and president of Mark J. Mitchell & Co., judicial district, is a candidate this fall to succeed 
Dame until 1952, left the faculty- to go with the National Conference of Christians and Jews. After 

insurance brokers, Chicago, is Impartial about himself, and is as yet unopposed. He says JOE 
EL PASO—^The Notre Dame Club held its dinner-dance in Juarez, Mexico. Alumni and guests included: {top row) Larry Webber, '50; Dick Smith, '37; Ed Herskouitz, '54; Bob O'Malley, '45; Bill Ford, *43; Gus Momsen, '49; Tom Ticmey, '52; Tim Hanrahan, '50; Dave Sipes, '53; Gus P. Momsen, Sr.; Gorman Brock, '49; and Tom Watkins, '5L (Front row) Jaime Mora, '44; Hal Foester, '44; Joe O'Toole, '54; and Joe Kennedy, '53. 
Notre Dame Alumnust November-DMcembtr, 1954 

DUNN of Rocky Ford is a highly successful farmer. . . . JACK SULLIVAN, once of Omalia, opened his own law ofhce five years ago in St. Louis. He reports that FRANK TULLY is with the Ralston Purina Co. there and that BILL COSTIG^\N has his own business. 
JOE (LITTLE JOE) SULLIV.VN is New England factory- representative for General Air Conditioning Corp. of Los Angeles. . . . HAROLD SUNDER­LAND, who made the long trek from American Fork, Utali, to the reunion, is an accountant with three daughters. Says he's still awaiting football material. . . . After 14 years as athletic director and coach at a Salem, N. J., high school, JOE THEISEN has returned to Thcisen-Clcmens in St. Joseph, Mich., as invenlorj' control manager. . . . DR. D/\N TOBIN, Sacramento physician and sur­geon in general practice, says California has been good to the Tobins, but he strikes a somber note in observing that because of the religious apathy out that ^\-ay somebody's going to have to reconvert the west. 
JOHN TOOMEY, who opened a church goods business in New Britain, Conn., a year ago, spends much of his time on the road. He covers the state. . . . JIM TORMEY, Er\RL BROWN*s old roommate, is sales manager of the Lyndonvillc Can­ning Cr»., Lyndonvillc, N. Y. He sa>-s the sole product is apple sauce. How do we take that, Jim? 
PAUL TULLY sends a flood of Notre Dame ne%vs, which unhappily must await the next issue, from Washington, D. C , where he says he is "publish­ing, Janitor, etc'* Get a little extra, Paul, for sweeping behind the radiators? . . . DICK UM­HOEFER, owner of a lumber yard and Shell Git bulk plant in Plain, Wis., went into business in 1946. He was a German prisoner for five months after the C-47 on which he was navigator, was forced down. 
FATHER SEBASTIAN WELSH, O.C.S.O., a monk in the Abbey of Our Lady of New Melleray, Dubuque, writes a laconic *'Nonc" to that question about family names and ages. . . . BILL ^\'HELE­HAN has his own insurance business in Rochester. . . . LLOYD ^VORLEY, president of AVorlcy & Harrell, Inc., oil well drillers in Oklahoma, Kansas, Wyoming, and North Dakota, advises against the building of a ncv%* home in Tulsa's llO-dcgrec sum­mer weather. Lloyd should know. He's just done it. 
If we may be permitted a personal closing note. We should like to obserx'c that the foregoing record of accomplishment, sent us via the recent question­naire, has been both edif\'ing and inspiring. It is the perfect reply to those who ridicule Notre Dame as a football factor>'. With our additional knowl­edge of many who did not respond, and who are doing equally well, it seems a good cross-section of the class of '39. Some of that valiant and fun-loving crew will never again be heard from. Tliirty­five, the largest number of any class, wrote their record in gold in World ^Var II. ^Vo cannot sur­pass tliat, however great our individual efforts, but \vc can keep their mcinor>* alive by striving, as we know thcj* would wish, to hold ever buoyant among ourselves, tlirough this column, the close associa­tions that began that faroff September day in 1933. 
May Our Lady on the Dome take care of them! 
15 yEAR. REUNION JUNE ion i-i 

lOd A Richard Burke 
•Tt U i4g paxson Drive South Bend} Indiana 
ARRANGE YOUR TI.ME FOR THE REUNION NEXT JUNE!!! 
i-irst L would like to thank all of your lovely wives for getting you to answer the questionnaire. The results were more than I expected, so they will be printed in alphabetical order. 
DOCTOR ROBERT AHEARN, 39 Matthews St., Binghamton, N. Y. Bob is married and has four children—^Joe, Helen and 3-year-old twins John and Charles. 
REV. FRANCIS R. ALLEGA, Linton, Indiana. Father Allcga studied two years at St. Mary's College, Kentucky, and four more at S:. Mcinrad's 
JOHN B. CELLA, II, 

Recently honored in Fresno, Calif., by the bishop of that diocese was John 
B. Cella, II. By recommendation of the Vatican, John was elevated to the Knighthood of St. Gregor)' the Great. 
A graduate in business administra­tion from Notre Dame, he enlisted in the army as a private in early 1941. John was released in 1946 having at­tained the rank of Major. 
He is now vice-president and secre­tar>' of Cella Vineyards, a concern en­gaged in the production of grapes, wines, and concentrates. Also he is a member of the Board of Directors of the Infant of Prague Adoption service in Fresno, a member of the American Red Cross, and is President of the Executives' Club, Fresno. 
John is married to the former Tina Parachini. They have three children. 
Seminary where he was ordained in August 1945. 
FRANK ANBREY,. 55 River Ave., Nonvich, Conn. Frank served in the Armed Services during World War II and is presently Procedure Repre­sentative with the Federal Housing Administration. Frank is still an eligible baclielor. 
EDGAR ANDERSON, Box 57, Concord, 111. Ed is married and has four children—^John, Judith, Eddie and Tommy, After five years with DuPont Ed went back to farming. 
JAMES BARRETF, 8S48 Hillendalc Rd., Towson 4, Md. Jim and his wife Bctt>* have three bo>*s, Michael, David and Paul. Between his job and Military Ser\*ice Jim has traveled extensively. He is a special agent with the F.B.I. 
CMDR. ROBERT BEAUDINE, 23 Denton Ave., East Rockaway, N. Y., is married and has five children—^Jane, Robert, Thomas, Michele and Carol. Bob has been a Navy flyer for the past 13'/2 years and most recently scr\'cd in the Persian Gulf Area with the Middle East Forces. He is now located with the Bureau of Aeronautics in New York. 
GEORGE BECKER, 7600 Preston Rd., Dallas, Texas. George and Dorothy have three children— Catherine, George and Paul. George has been an airline pilot since 1943. How about ED MAT' THEWS, LOU REILLV, GEORGE MEEKER and JIM METZLER writing to George? He would like to hear from you guys. 
JAMES A. BYRNE is scni-ing as assistant director of Adult Education at Marquette University. His new address is 2512 North Frederick Avenue, Mil­waukee, Wis. 
JOSEPH BEH and his wife, Byrd, live at 105 Bay Road, Menlo Park, Calif. ' Joe is going to at-• tend the reunion—Are >-ou? 
ANTHONY BERNARD, 139 S. Bridge St., Struthers, Ohio. Tony and Jane have five little Bernards—Patricia, Kathleen, Jane Ann, Christine and four-month-old ^like. Tony is in the retail lumber business and it must be good—he just re­turned from a Canadian fishing trip. 
LEO A. BEVER and his wife Frances have one son, John. Leo is in the grocery business. He would like to hear from TOM FITZP.ATRICK. 
JEROME BORDEAUX, 1366 Ransom St., Muske­gon, Mich., is in the Real Estate business. He ^vou!d like to hear from HENRY DOWD. 
NORMAN BOURKE, 155 Babbott Ave., Water-ville, N. Y., is teaching at Auburn Communit>' Col­lege. He last heard from JOE BURNS, BOB SHEA and PARKS MULLEN. Norm previously taught at St. Laurence Univ. and recently attended S>Ta­cuse Univ. where he has completed course require­ments toward a Doctors Degree in Social Science. 
HAROLD and Joan BOWLER, 122 Seeser St., Joliet, 111., have three children—Lori, Mike and Jimmy. Harold is a salesman with the Bridgeport Brass Co. He served in the Na\-y Supply Corp. in \Vorld War II. ART LANCASTER, TED KMIE­CEK, NORM BOURKE and DOUG B.ANGERT ;vritc Harold—he wants to hear from you. 
That's all for now. Watch your column in the next issue—it is going to be long. You should have your class rosier by now or very shortly (from the Alumni Office). How about u-riting to some of the guys and make arrangements for June's reunion. Everyone should be here—see you all then. 
John W. Pattcnon, Jr. 

1941 PittsboTKh Press, Roto Section Pitlsbnii^h 22, Pennsylvania 
HOWARD J. SCHELLENBERG, JR. and JA.MES 
T. 0*LAUGHLIN, M2, announce the formation of a partnership specialiring in radio, television and military law with offices at 1025 Connecticut Avenue, 
N. W., Washington, D. C. 
In a routine fashion on Monday evening Septem­ber 27, I answered the phone. The voice on the other ecd of the line was strange. Tlie guy wanted to know vvhy in the hecky gee J. PxVTTERSON was contributing nothing to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. 
Turned out that this character was FRANK U'EMHOFF who, after writing a column in the Scholastic (circa 1940-41), should know that writ­ing news columns about people you never hear from is a chore indeed. 
At any rate, Frank was in Pittsburgh for the first time in his life and we got together twice— once to talk, over a brace of root beers, about the campus capers of such classmates as JOE GILLES­PIE, VERNE WITKOVSKI, BUD POGLIANO, BOB DORAN, etc. The other time, at lunch, w. discussed the problems of public transportation. On this subject we could talk with ease since both Indianapolis (where Frank lives) and Pittsburgh have recently had transportation strikes. In addi­tion, Frank is public relations guy for the Indian­apolis Transit outfit. 
He arrived here fresh from a visit to the campus where he saw the grand opening of the football season. His reports I had best, keep to myself because I don't urant to put him on the spot. (The season will be long on its way by the time this hits the streets.) 
Anyhow, it was good to sec Frank—after 13 years. He vcas easily recognizable, seems to have lost veiy* few hairs since they started to go while he was on the campus. 
About the only other item to report is that I discovered JIM BEHE is a member of the same parish here in Pittsburgh. I first ran into him when he arrived after noon Mass for the purpose of having a new Behe child baptized. We run into each other frequently. 
Still looking for some newsy letters—particularly from the gentlemen living in Chicago or New-York or Cleveland—towns where a goodly number of 1941 people arc congregated. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Noaember-December, 1954 41 
PITTSBURGH—Participants in the clubs golf outing included, L. to R.: Earl Brie­ger, '31, president; Gene Coyne, 33, chair­man; P. J. Palmer, pro at the Latrobe Country Club; and George Kingsley, '30. 
WilHun £. Scazilan 1942 400 East nid i Street Chxca$:o 28. lUinob 

ROGER AV. YOUKG received a master ol laws 
degree from the University of Southern California 
at the June commencement. 

JOHN C. DONOVAN, M.D., is now an assist­
ant professor at the School of Medicine, University 
of Rochester. He and Mrs. Donovan are the par­
ents of a daughter bom June 17. 

JAMES J. O^BRIEX, former member of the 
New York State legislature, has been appointed 
director of ordinary sales, individual policies, pen­
sion programs and annuities by the Union Labor 
Life Insurance Company, New York City. 

This edition of '42 nevvs comes from Washington, 
D. C , where the Scooper is attending the Finan­dal Public Relations Convention. Have had a couple of swell visits with JIM O'LAUGHLIN and HOWIE SCHELLENBERG, now partners in a law firm at 1025 Connecticut Avenue near the famous Mayflower Hotel. They specialize in radio and TV affairs where Howie's prc\ious experience with 
F.C.C. comes in mighty- handy. Jim, not so long ago, departed from the U. S. Marines where he had an outstanding career— ranging from getting the Silver Star at Okinawa to serving a number of years in the legal department. He had citations from three Secretaries of the Na\y—and rcporu he got to sec Messrs. CRIM­MINS, LILLIS and KELLY a number of times in World War II P.T. boat actixity. Also, saw DAN HOL^^'ELL a year or so ago at Solomons, Marj*­land, Nax-al Base. Jim lives in suburban Chexy Chase, Md., and he and Anne have three children—Maureen, Joan and Johnny. Jim is currently heading ND-Penn game special train arrangements. At the convention, I've had xisits with AL ANASTASIA who is now Financial Advertising Manager of the ^Va^l Street Journal. He head­quarters in Neisr York and supervises financial ad­vertising for the four editions—^New York, Chicago, Dallas and Son Francisco—so you're liable to see him in most any part of the country. He ran into AL PERRINE. WALT DESEL and JERRY RAB­BETT at New York Notre Dame Club affairs. While in Florida, AI found a superior golf foe in 
WADE NODA, the promising barber of St. Augustine. 
Air-mailed from New York is this interesting letter from JIM O'NEAL: 
"After spending 32 years in St. Louis, I mox-ed to D'Arcy's Advertising, New York Office, in Jan­uary, 1954. It looked like a small army boarding TWA's non-stop to LaGuardia—we were ushered into the front compartment and not heard from for the rest of the way—much to the delight of the other 50 passengers. 'We' consisted of my wife, Mary, along v^'ith Sally, Ellen, Mary, Kathy and Peggy—not a Junior In the lot! 
"Behind I left my best friends—all ND, all '42— TOM HENTsTGAN, GEORGE CONRY, ED GRIESEDIECK, FRANK POLLNOW, HANK DAHM, ED MANGELSDORF, among others. I hope to get to Philly for the Penn game—and I hope to see JIM O'LAUGHLIN and othen there. 
42 fictre Dame Atumnui, November-December, 1954 
"My job at D'Arcy is working with the OHn-Mathieson Chemical account—lots of liiversification and lots of interesting work." 
Nice going. Jim—the welcome mat is out for other letters from our class. 
^^'hiIe walking dox^'n ^Vabash Avenue one day in Chicago recently, I ran into TOM MILLS, now an attorney in Beloit. Tom had just found BILL McNA\L\RA, after a number of attempts to reacli him. Also, while coming out of the new St. Peter's Churcli on Madison, I met TOM TIER­NEY, nov%f %rith Chicago Corporation Counsel's oflice after a long lour of duty with the U. S. Nax-y. Both looking fit and chipper. 
ANDY GORKA, now with a consulting engineers firm—Vem E. Adicr Co., Chicago—breezed past the other day and had time for a quick hello. 
Every once in awhile I get to see DON FIGEL, tlie insurance tycoon—major domo of K. of C. and Holy Name Society affairs in Chicago Heights, III. 
DA\ ^ HACK, known best to our class as Terr>', is now in tite real estate loan department at the Standard State Bank, Chicago. BILL HICKEY recently moved his clan into a sparkling new home in the Beverly Hills section of Chicago. TOM NASH was one of the perennial favorites in the golf tournaments at Olympia Fields Country Club. DON HOGAN was out for a lesson late in the season. At last report, JIM PURCELL was the new Public Relations director at the Northern Indiana Public Service Company, Hammond. 
AVell, that gives a roundup but wc want to hear from and about our constituents in other parts of the U.S. Remember—xvrite Scoop—if it's news. If it's about you—it is news. 
From PAUL NEVILLE, managing editor of the South Bend Tribune: **JOE LANE, practicing law in. Queens, is dabbling in politics. He's a Wagner man in the Borough and baring fun. Still unmar­ried. . . . TOM POWXRS and Irene are the par­ents of a baby bom in Chicago. .. . JOE HRACHOX'EC and wife are also parents of a son in Rapid City, So. Dakota. . . . EMMET KEENAN and JIM DOYLE, partners in a CPA firm in Davenport, lo\*'a, xrith their wives were spectators at the MSC game. 
John L. WiRfCuw 
1943 11404 Rupley Lane 
Dallas 14, Texas 

From JIM BYRNE (909 S. ifain St., Royal Oak, Mich.) word came that he had begun a new busi­ness venture, Byrne Pl^^vood Co. Jim, who is Vice-President of the ND Club of Detroit, has a new warehouse capable of holding 50 carloads of pl^Tvood; he is president of the concern. Jim*s third son was bom in mid-July. Jjm writes: "See ED HICKEY and ED RONEY regularty and BILL FISHER stops by on his trips from NYC. JOHN McHALE, director of the Detroit "Hger farm sys­tem, just had his fifth child. REG FLYNN is doing a terrific job for Ford Motor here. Outside of the abovcmentioncd group, our other class­mates are more or less dormant in alumni actiri­tics. Got a letter from JOE HILLEBRAND last week and he's a big Toledo insurance man/* Thanks for the letter, Jim, and best wishes for your success at Byrne PI>^vood. 
"BUDD" CANS (220 S. Pershing, Wichita 8, Kans.) checked in with an announcement of the birth of his fourth child (his tliird daughter) on July 29; she a C^-nthia Sue. "Budd" is a Super­visor of Contract Administration at Boeing Air­craft in Wichita. He is in his third year w*ith Boeing. 
SPORTS NOTES: \\'ALLY ZIEMBA was signed late last summer as line coach by the Ottawa (Canada) Rough Riders. JOHNNY McHALE was mentioned in press releases as having joined Charlie Gehringer and Muddy Ruel of the Detroit Tiger staff in recommending the Bengals sign Buck>' Harris as new Detroit manager. Class President BUD DUDLEY whom some have called the P. T. Bamum of collegiate football has done it again— converted the huge Philadelphia Munidpal Stadium into a 'grocery bowl' this season. Last season he sold a 58,000 batch of football tickets to a grocery chain. This year Bud peddled 90,000 seats to Acme Supermarkets for the VtlIano\-a-Houston game and 85,000 for the Wildcats game with Geor­gia assuring Villanova, where Dudley is athletic di­rector, of seating close to 200,000 fans within a 20­day period for two games. Villanova, incidentally, plays a two-game home schedule this year. Bud has been appointed a spedal assistant to the 
chairman of the Democratic National Commit­tee. Dudley will also continue serxing as athletic director at VilIano\-a. 
DR. FRANCIS J. SHORTSLEEVE has been pro­moted to group manager, Metals Research Group, of Electro Metallurgical Company. 
Geot^e BarisciUo 
1944 515 Fifth ATUUC 
Bnifler Beach, N. J. 
EDGAR A. PESSEMIER has received two 
awards for scholastic achievement at the New 
York University School of Retailing. He received 
3 master of science degree in retailing at N^YU's 
summer commencement. 
Thanks to BILL TALBOT I am spared ans^ver­
ing the ALUMNUS' deadline notice with a report 
that there's no ncu-s in the '44 group. I'm sure 
that's not so, and that tlie pressures of business and 
family life, coupled with the after-effects of the 
BIG get-together last June oa the campus, have 
caused the delay In news reaching me. Let me 
take this opportunity to put in a pitch for how 
important it is for -}*ou to drop me a postcard 
or line once in a while ^%^th some info about your­
self, no matter how unimportant it may seem to 
you. Our '44 column, which appears only four 
times a year, is for most of us the only contact— 
save the reunion once every five years—we have 
with each other. So GIVE! 
Our four regional vice-presidents have agreed to assist >-our secretary in gathering news in their sccUons: MIKE FRA^VLEY, ^Vest; SAM WING, South; MEN MAMMINA, Mid-West; and BILL TALBOT, East. When you hear from them, please heed the plea. Better still, why not sit down right now and uTite a line or two to me. 'Twould be appreciated by all. 
Talbot had a clever idea; he took a raft of paper with him to the last New York Alumni Club meeting intending to have each *44 man there wTitc a few words. (Maybe some others who at­tend alumni club meetings in Detroit, Chicago, Cleveland, St. Louis, Kansas Cit>*, etc, could follow suit). He even supplied the envelope, ad­dressed to me. Regrettably, only two others of our class w*ere at the meeting that night. But BOTH of them took time to write. And so in to the news: 
JACK McCABE is doing claim and legal work with an insurance company at their home oflice in N.Y.C. . . . expects to make both the Penn and 'Sa.vy games this fall and will be looking for familiar faces. 
EARL ENGLERT is now living in New Jersey (11 Canterbur)* Drive, Midland Park) with his lovely wife, Jane, and their five youngsters. Not sure whether he's retired, as the note didn't report any business afliUatton. 
BILL TALBOT, still managing to stay single, continues \rith Samuel French, Inc., in New York, but has taken on a sideline, managing the Talbot Brothers of Bemruda, a "world famous calypso group," according to Bill. He has them booked in Chicago on the 15th, 16th and 17th of October (didn't say where!), and at the Rochester Country Club on the 14th. 
Had lunch in Asbury Park a couple of weeks ago with LARRY SCHAT2LEIN, who represents 
L. to R.: John V, Dcffley and Lawrence 
M. Moran, both of the '54 class, who are working for the Columbus, Ohio, Division of North American Aviation, Incorporated. 

U. S. Rubber in northern and central Jersey. 
JOHN D. KELLY is practicing law as a part­ner in the firm of Branigan and Kelly with ofEccs at 10 East 40th Street, Neu- York City. 
Meeting place before and after the home games for our class is on the north side of the Alimini Scr\'ice Booth outside of Gate 5 at the stadium. 
lOyEAR. REUNION JUNE 10-I1-I1 

mQAC. A' Lcsmcz ITI D 122 Tullamore Road Garden City, N. Y. 
OWEN W. DOYLE, M.D., Is associated with Drs. E. D. Apple and Ignacio Bird in the practice of Radiology- in Greensboro, X. C. 
JOHN HELLMAN received a masters degree from the University of Cincinnati at commence­ment exercises held June 4. 
CHARLES R. CLARY received a bachelor of laws degree from St. Johns University recently. 
A NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION It is that time of year again when we arc all filled with the Spirit of Christmas, of love for our friends and our families, and of love for the Child who was bom in Jerusalem. It is a Spirit which we keep all year long, but which finds more outward signs around this time. I am vcr>' happy to extend to every man in the class, and to his family and loved ones, wishes for a happy, holy day. May Christmas Blessings be with you all year long. With the New Year must come resolutions and promises. My promise is that the 10-ycar reunion is going to be an unforgettable get-together of our class. All I ask is that YOU make a resolution Immediately: that you will be there. Without YOU there to see all your friends, they will be cheated from seeing you. So don^t you miss out on what looks to be a grand reunion. Put a circle around June 10, n , and 12. 
^X'E'RE STILL AFTER YOUR DUES We are still expending a lot of effort tr>-ing to collect the dues which each man must contribute to the class fund. The amount is only one dollar, but it has been extremely hard to keep the obliga­tion in the mind of many, and as a consequence, there ore still some who have not sent theirs in. Since our last column, however, we have had contributions from four men, and to them, I should 
• like to extend my personal thanks, and that of the class. They arc GEORGE SIPPEL, WILLLVM 
' FANIZZI, FRED BIGGS, and BILL MOORE. A few more and we will begin to feel proud of our efforts. 
HERE AND THERE 
J. D. USINA uTites happily from Norway an­nouncing the birth of Michael Da\*id, weighing in at 8 pounds on September 5. Congratulations to 
J. D. and Pat—and of course, to Mike for picking such good parents .. . a vcr>- novel birth an­nouncement came from TOM MULHERN. On July 17, Tommy the third was born, to make their family one of two girls and one boy. Congratula­tions to the family, Tom, in the name of the class . . . '>'ours truly vacationed in Mexico City this year, and had the pleasure of \'isiting around to\ra uith DAVE CHAMPION and his wife. Doe. Dave looks swell, is working hard in Mexico, and •* has a very Avonderful family. The three children we mec were s^veet, beautifully mannered, spoke Spanish fluently, and were a real pleasure to have around. The fourth, the baby, was asleep, but if he is anything like the three we met, Dave and ' Doe have a lot of which to be thankful and proud .. . a visitor to New York, CHUCK SARTORE, was a pleasure to see. He wasn't here as long as we would have liked to have him, but it was good getting together with him and talking. Chuck is 
with Ford Motors in Memphis, Tennessee, and drove to New York and New England for \-aca­

tion this year. .. . I bumped into JACK DEGAN at the Notre Dame Club of New York meeting last month, and we hit upon the idea of inviting all the men who were freshmen at Notre Dame during that hectic May-to-Septcmber semester back in 1942, and all those who began in the September semester of that same year to come to our reunion. Many of these men are not even listed by the Alumni Association for lack of information; others are members of other classes because they returned to graduate in '47, '48, or '49- There are names like COTTER, COYLE, 0'HAR/\, WURT2LER, a\SSIDY, COLGROVE, REILLY, ROBERTS^ LYONS, AVOOD, and many more who come to mind as men of that time. Let's hear from anyone who thinks'this is a good idea, or who has any information about classmates who attended Notre Dame in that period. 
LETTERS FRO.M DEPARTMENT From VIC PRICE: "I read in the ALUMNUS that HARRY BERLINER had written you. As I knew him very well, but havcn*t seen him in ten years, I was wondering if he still lives in or around Los Angeles, in %vhich case I would very much like to get in touch with him. If you still happen to have his address, would you mind sending it on to me. Thanks." (Dear Vic: I guess you've gotten my note by now giving you Harr>''s address as 117 Nursery Street, Nc\'ada City, California. If you write that guy, tell him he owes me a letter). From BILL MOORE: "Here is the dollar, finally. I have been meaning to send this for months, but just never got around to doing same. I expect I ought to add considerable interest and postage to cover the delay and reminders from you. "i\m certainly glad to hear they are going to combine the NROTC reunion and that of the class of 1945. I am sure I couldn't make both if they were separate, but I do hope to get to this one. "I see ANDY ANDERSON off and on and played golf with him last Saturday; no comment on either score. Wc hope to get together with DON O'CONNELL when he 'gets out of the Nai--y for some more golf. Will tell you the scores if they improve. 
"Still working for Research Corporation. Started with them right out of the Na\T and have stayed ever since. Have been ver>- fortunate and got some breaks so now I hold down the New York OiEce as District Sales Manager. 
"Since you are out in Garden City how about calling me up the next time you arc in New York and wc can have lunch together. I am out of town a good bit, so if you know you will be in town in advance wc con probably get together. 
"Our boy is 214 now and we are expecting another in July. Sorry about the delay in getting out the dollar, but better late than nc\-er." 
From GEORGE SIPPEL: "I apologize for being so late in getting my class dues to you. Your timely reminders and welcome letters have finally stirred me to take time to write a short note as well as pay my dues. Congratulations, Al, on the fine job you are doing in keeping our class so well informed and organized. I intend to be at our reunion in 1935. 
"As for my present status, I am a Senior Experi­mental Metallurgist at the Allison Division of GMC at Indianapolis, where I have worked for the past 8 years. As )*ou know, our main acti%'ity is the production of turbojet and turboprop engines for the militar)' services. I have been married for 7 years and have a 6-year-oId son, Greg, and a 2­ycar-old daughter, Kristine." 
From FRED J. BIGGS: "Many thanks for your letter of May 25. Enclosed $1.00 for class dues." 
From BOB SNEE: "I certainly will be happy to lend a hand with your plans for the reunion next year. Name the time and the place and I'll cer­tainly be there. You will have a better chance of getting me at the office since my wife will probably be in the hospital for 5nee No. 3. I noticed that several names were missing on the heading of your 
letter. I assume that you have a complete list of the South Bend residents in our class; if not, I can fill you in when I sec you. I hope that this meeting works out all right. I am sure we wHl organize a good group and have a tremendous re* union. Best regards." 
From BILL FANIZZI: "Among other things, the war confused an awful lot of us ui respect to what class we were in at Notre Dome. I started in September 1941 even though I did not receive my degree until 1946. Reason—I could not receive a 
COLUMBUS—Uncovering new grid tal­ent at alumni family outing. 
degree from ND until I successfully completed tw*o years of medical school. All this brought about by the fact that during the war all \ve needed was sLx semesters of pre-med. Confusing? I agree. However, I'll have to consider myself as one of the class of *45 if you will so accept me. 
"Accordingly, here is my buck enclosed for the class dues." (Dear Bill, wc are more than happy to include you on our growing roster. ^Ve hope you'll be at the 10-year reunion, joining in the fcstiv^des, activities, and renewing old friendships. Best regards. Al.) 
From JIM PARIS: "My u-ife, Gloria, and myself arc tremendously happy. After 6 years of marriage, we finally succeeded in having our first baby» Suzanne Lynn, bom September 27, weighing almost 5 pounds prematurely. Mother, daughter, and father are all doing well now^—although it was a little questionable there for a while as far as the father is concerned. Best regards to all the class. Hope to see ^-ou at the reunion ia Juno." (Dear Jim: Congratulations from myself and from the class. Give little Suzanne Lynn a big collective kiss from all of us. Best regards until June. Al.) 
AN IN*VITATION 
If you arc not officially in the class of '45, or if you have your doubts, and you would like to attend the *45 reunion—or know of someone who should be there—send the address to me, and I'll keep you or the ex '45 member informed of re­union plans. Vfc want as many as possible of that May 1942 and September 1942 gang to show, along with the rest of the class. S'long for now. Al. 
194A J*^ '^^^•Ke, Jr. 
• ^^^ 55 Hm^ St, Apt. 2 
HartfOTd, Gonn. 

DR. JOHN IMBODEN recently returned from the service and is assistant resident ps>-chiatrist at the Phipps Clinic at Johns Hopkins Hospital. 
FR.4NK FOSS is now liWng at 3311 East Wil­lard, Tucson, Ariz., and working in the personnel office at Davis-Monthan Air Base. 
lY^ / 407 So. 25th, Apt. B-S South Bend, Kadiana 
DR. JOHN ARCADI is at present the Resident Urologist at Johns Hopkins Hospital and w-ill finish his training next June. He is the father of three fine children. 
WILLIAM P.-MARTIN has been appointed vice^ president and director of agencies by the Central National I^ e Insurance Company, Omaha, Ne­braska. 
DR. JOSEPH C. FINNEY attended the Interna­tional Congress of Psychotherapy in Zurich, Smt­zerland this summer. His home address is 1420 East 26th Street Way, Oakland 6, Calif. 
Notre.Dame Alumnus, NovembernD*eembtr, 1954 43 
a-» a&yiffrtfa'icsaa 
*iOAO Herman A. Zitt ITHO 126 Farmside Drive Dayton, Ohio 
DR. RALPH THORSON who received his Ph.D. 
from tlic Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public 
Health several years ago is, at the latest word, 
still associate professor of parasitoIog>' at the Ala­
bama Pol>*tccIinic Institute. 
RAY SRSIC will return from a profitable summer 
working for the Mellon Institute in Pittsburgh to 
begin liis second year at Johns Hopkins Medical 
Scliool. 
JOHN J. GEDERT, JR., received a doctor of 
medicine degree from Ohio State University on 
June n. 
ALBERT D. McERLANE was awarded a doctor 
of medicine degree from the University of Cincin­
nati on June 4. 
CHARLES R. DcGAL.\N's new address is 19217 
Gainsborough Road, Detroit 23, Mich. 
LEO LOUGHLIX is a medical doctor and in 
residcnc\* at tlic Ps>'chiatnc CHnic, Hartford, Conn. 
THO.MAS J. HESSERT has been appointed sales representative in the Philadelphia area by Inland Steel Products Company. 
%OAO John P. Walker IT*»T 826 Wing Street EI^ , niinois 
DR. STEPHEN* GALLA recently completed hb internship at Union Memorial Hospital and has returned to ilic Johns Hopkins hospital as assistant resident anesthesiologist. 
PAUL PECKHAM will begin his clinical studies as he returns for the third year in the Johns Hop­kins Medical ScIiooI this fall. 
ROBERT L. REYNOLDS is managing editor of Jubilee Magazine. JOSEPH D. WALLACE is planning to return to the United States from Army ser\-ice on November 
8. His address at that time will be 161 Hillside Road, Watertou'n, ^(ass. 
DR. ROBERT P. KANE, Clifton, X. J., is now employed at the Jackson Laboratory w-hicli is aflili­ated with the DuPont Company. 
WILLLAM J. DUGGAX has been appointed sales­man for the Gardner Board and Carton Company of Middlctown, Ohio. 
KARL D. ACKER^L-VX has been named chief of tlie Security Division of USRO in Paris. His ad­dress is 21/23 Quai du 4 Septcmbre, Boulogne sur Seine, France. 
EDWARD A. SCHILDKXECHT has recently re­ceived a doctor of philosophy degree in clicmistry from Fordham. 
FRANK A. CAPPIELLO was awarded the degree of master in business administration from Harvard at the summer commencement. 
5 yEAR- R-EUNION JUNE 10-11-11 
10CA Richard F. Hahn ITDU 5440 No. A^mhrop Chicago, Illinois 
LOUIS M. HALEY received a doctor of Medicine degree from Ohio State University on June II. 
IL\ROLD R. IMBUS and THO.MAS J. KLUG were awarded doctor of medicine degrees from the University of Cincinnati this past June. 
ELLIOTT J, BURRELL received a doctor of phi­losophy degree from Penns>ivania State Univershy on June 7. 
JOHN GARIEPY recently received his M.D. from Yale Medical School and is presently serving 'his internship at Cincinnati General Hospital. 
DR. RICHARD M. MOSIER is now associated witli his fatlier. Dr. Harry D. Mosler, in the prac­tice of general dentistry in Herington, Kansas. 
BERNARD LEO WEIGAND received a master of science degree from Western Reserve University-recently. 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, Xovember-Deeember, 1954 
COLIX F. MacDOXALD received the doctor of 
dental medicine degree from Tufts College recently. 
ROBERT L. SCRIBXER was awarded a doctor of 
medicine degree from Tufts at the summer com­
mencement. 
DOXALD C. BUSECK became engaged to Miss 
Frances Barbara Quinn of Eric, Pa., this past sum­
mer. No date has been set for the wedding. 
Well it won't be long now before the boss will be 
dragging out the 1955 \*acation scliedulc or you 
lucky boys who arc your own masters will be 
looking at tlie travel folders. What I am leading up 
to is that comes June 10, 11, and 12 I hope you'll 
all be in Soutli Bend for a real weekend. Now is 
the time to plan so that if you have to travel you 
can work it in. I give my personal guarantee that 
no finer time could be had an>*where else. 
On June 19. 1954, BOB TEUSCHER married Mar>- Lois Dcrmody of Plainficld, N. J. Since graduating Bob has attended Georgetown Univer­sity ScIiooI of Law, and is a sales representative for the Rubcroid Co. in Columbus, Ohio. After the wedding trip to Miami and Cuba, Bob and Mar>' have set up house in Columbus, Ohio, address unknown. 
IL\Y *'BRADY" SULLIVAN wTitcs as follou-s: *'After graduating in 1950 X worked as assistant Sales Order Manager for the Oliver Corporation Sales Brancli in South Bend. It was a trouble­shooting job and I liked it mucli. Uncle Sam's X'avy then caught up with me for a two-year hitcli as storekeeper on a Great Lakes training craft with a home port of Sheboygan, ^Vls. I liked the town so well that I married a pretty little gal a year ago last April. February* we were blessed with our first named Mauicen in honor of the Marian Year. 1 now have a job with the JPR company here in Sheboygan. Wc have a bulk ready-mLX concrete plant, the largest in Eastern Wisconsin. Xot long ago, the boss handed the ad­vertising cliores over to me, and this along witli being in the local chapter of the S.P.E.B.S.Q.S.A. —Barfoershoppers—and handling their publicity, have kept me busy. 1 am also a member of the She­boygan Catholic Male Chorus and on the Board of Directors. 
"My little brotlier (He'll love that) graduated with honors from Morcau and ND a year ago and has been studying in Rome since. Hopes to have his collar in December, 1956. My folks plan to journey to Rome for the occasion. My sister fin­ished her sophomore year at Marycrest this spring and plans on the convent this Fall. 
"Have met a lot of old grads here in Sheboygan: BOB RHODE is now an attorne>' in town and Vice-Prcxy of St. Clements H. N. Sodety. Tlic GOTTSACKER brothers, BILL and HAROLD, arc in the insurance business. . . . DICK COX­

RARDY, an old Glee Clubber and sparkplug of the 
Catholic Male Chorus here. Is with the family in 
the laundry and dry-cleaning business. . . . The 
TRILLING bo>-s arc with their Dad in hardware 
business. . . . BOB NICKODEM Is with the trust 
department of tlie Security National Bank. 
"I am anxiotis to get down to Milwaukee and 

see JIM BREXXAX and over to Appleton to find 
DICK STACK. HANK FUNK and family re­
cently returned to LaCrosse from Texas and JOE 
BECKER and GILES HACKXER are also work­
ing in LaCrosse. 
"Wonderful state, this Wisconsin: land of the Packers and home of the Braves. And wonderful people. \\'iU welcome and answer any correspond­ence from anyone who remembers me, whether from the Glee Club, Journalism gang, ^farching Band, Studebaker Corp. or LaFortunes. My address, 2805 Xorth 12th St., Sheboygan, Wis." 
JOE SHAXXOX writes that he left the Indiana Supreme Court early thb year to become a deputy Securities Commissioner and has just recently been appointed Commissioner by Crawford E. Parker, Indiana Secretary* of State. 
ALE SCHLORCH phoned me the other day and brought me up to date on lits activities; since school he has married and has been blessed with a son Albert 3Vs, and Mary V/z with the third arrival due in the near future. Ale is in the Construction business with his family and likes it a lot. Ale reports that GENE PULASKI is with the Fairfield Savings & Loan. JOHN METALLIC also has a boy and a girl. 
Mrs. Jackie Tliompson Welgand, formerly uf St. Mary's, writes that her Imsband BERNARD L. WEIGAND, received his ^LS. In Chemistrx* from Western Reserve University and also has a ten-day-old son as of Sept. 15, 1954, ^fichael Bernard by name. Bcrnie will continue at W.R.U. for his Ph.D. and Michael should graduate from XD in '75. Tlic Weigands live at 10717 E. Woodland Ave,, Cleveland 4, Ohio. 
IVO FATIGATI writes that he has left the State Department and is back home. He is kept pretty wdl jumping between the restaurant business and managing a brick company's office- in which he has some stock. 
JOHX S. ARGUE writes from Rochester, N. Y.. that he, JOE COSTA, CHARLIE DERRICO, AL BISESE, JACK DETTLING all graduated from Georgetown Medical School last June. Joe is at 
U. of Chicago Clinics, Charlie at New York City Hospital, Jack at St. Vincent's Hospital in X^.Y.C. and Al and John arc at St. Mar\-'s Hospital in Rodiestcr, X. Y. Charlie and Al were both mar­ried this last June and Al has a baby on the way. John was married three years ago to Mary Elliott 
HAVANA—^Alumni and guests entertained Juan Cintron and his wife. 
Feck of St. Mary's and South Bend and now have a daughter and a son. 
LOU CAPUCCI, JACK S.\NDERS, FRED NISI, MORG/\N LUCID and JIM ROTCHFORD all re­ceived their M.D.'s in 1953 from Georgetown. Jim Morgan and Lou arc married and Lou has a baby. 
TOM OTOOLE graduated from St. Loads U. ^fedic3I School this year. JIM WACK graduated from Loyola Medical School in Chicago and is interning in Cleveland. 
GUY BARADS and JACK ELLIOTT were both working with the F.B.I. last time I heard. Saw them both in Washington a few years ago. 
Tlianks for tlic letter Jack. . . . Jack's address is 21 Lakevicw Terrace, Rochester 13, N. Y. 
Tlie last letter of the month rolls in from GERRY R^VMSBERGER: "I am coaching football at New Northeast High School in St. Petersburg, Fla. Tlic family, Kerry, Kate, Peter and wife Dottic arc all happy here in the land of sunshine. 
"GENE BITTNER is coaching over at Plant H. S. in Tampa, looks great and is doing real well. Just celebrated the arrlx-al of his second daughter. 
"TOM CANFIELD is doing an outstanding coacliing job at St. Patil H. S. here in St. Pete. Tom is the father of three fine young ^rls. 
"Saw BILL CONNORS this past summer. Tlie 'old ShcrifT' is coaching up in Alpena, Mich. Bill has three s'l^ls. Incidentally it's now an ath­letic event when Bill bends over to tie a shoelace. 
"Sure would like to hear from DICK COR­DASCO. BABE ALEXANDER. BILL STRAUB, TOM HALEY and all the Phy.Eds. that arc trying to make a living. Well, that's it and I hope to see someone at the reunion." Gerry's address is 2825 Fourth Ave., No. St. Petersburg, Fla. 
Local news is pretty slow of late. The DICK HAHNS arc expecting their third in February-. DON MURPHY, '49, Is now working for Ntotorola in the Augusta Ave. Plant. I ran Into BERNIE MENARIK, '49, while out house-hunting a few weeks ago. He is working for Graybar and on weekends sells real estate. 
That's it for now. Don't forget the Reunion. Tlie more the merrier. 
10C 1 Robert J. KlinKcnberKcr I Y D I 1717 Pcmbcrton Drive Fort Wayne, Indiana 
FRxVNCIS A. SLIEMERS, JR., received a master of science degree and ALFRED P. TONTI a law de^ee from Ohio State University* at commence­ment cxercbes held June II. 
ANTHONY R. DADAMIO received a master's degree in physical. education from Pennsylvania State University on June 7. 
JAMES P. DORDING was recently released from the Na\y and Is now working for the Common­wealth Edison Company in Chicago. His address is 1812 Farwell Avenue, Chicago 26, III. 
JIM MAHONEY is line coacli as well as tackle for the Naxy's Atlantic Amphibious Force team. 
PHIL FINNEGAN has been assigned to the Rochester, N. Y., branch of the Owens-Illinois Glass Company. 
ROBERT H. BAUKNECHT has joined the staff of the Whiting Research Laboratories of Standard Oil Company (Indiana). 
JAMES E. MCLAUGHLIN received a bachelor of laws degree from the University of Pittsburgh this past summer. 
CHARLEY R. TALLY was awarded a bachelor of laws degree from Har\*ard at summer commence­ment exercises. 
DR. GERALD J. KAVANAUGH is now serving an Internship at St. Luke's Hospital, Chicago, 111. 
KENNETH E. McCABE Is out of the Navy and has taken an engineering position with the iflnne­apolis-Honeywell Regulator Company. 
CAPT. JAMES L. BLACK, JR., U.S.M.C., was recently awarded a Bronze Star Medal for "meri­torious achievement In Korea with disregard for his personal safety." 
GEORGE FOSTER wrote from Rhode Island just prior to being discharged, that he will be re­turning to Chicago and will reside at 10504 South Oakley Avenue, Chicago, III., temporarily. George also reports the arri\-al of their first ofTsprlng, Susan Mary, on April 24. Congratulations, George. 
Word on JOHN \VORTHINGTON. from his wife 

M. J., reports that John was discharged from tlie Air Force and is now with DuPont as a sales representative with the Kinetic Chemical Division and is located at 1747 North Roosevelt Court, WIcliita, Kansas, from which he services the Colo­rado, Kansas, Oklalioma and Missouri area. Also, they are all fine and expect a family increase shortly. 
JOE GALLOWAY writes he was recently dis­charged from the hospital and is now recuperating and feeling fine. He mentions that while in Roches­ter last winter, he saw JACK CURRfVN and BOB BEIKIRCH. Also, Joe reports on JOHN CAY's marriage to Miss Betty Ann Farley on January 30, 1954, in Scranton, Pa. BILL PRINDIVILLE was best man while Jo© and TOM TULLY were among the ushers. DON RODRIGUEZ was In at­tendance. John was drafted on February 17 and was sent to Camp Pickett. Joe also writes of the Penn-ND basketball game when he saw JOHN VOrr, BILL WHFFESIDE, DICK JORD.\N, DON RODRIGUEZ, MATTY O'DONNELL and HOBE TAYLOR. 
TOM HINKES became a proud father on Janu­ary 22. It was a boy, Micliael Thomas. 
BILL NORTON, 1714 "N " Street N.W., Wash­ington, D. C , now one of the Assistant Counsels for the Navy, writes that he, JIM MARTIN, BILL COONEY and MATTY O'DONNELL will be ad­mitted to the D. C. bar this October. JOE RUSSO Is one of Senator Hennlng's assbtants and will finish law school this year. Bill abo Mrrites that he ran Into TOM EGAN of Wau*asee Lake, Indiana, who is a Lieutenant in the Air Force and was on his way to his duty station, London, Eng­land. BILL COONEY will be going Into the ser\"ice, JIM MARTIN will be practicing law In 
D. C , and Matty \rill probably go with the govern­ment for awhile. 
I received an announcement and invitation to the wedding of Miss Lucy Ann Attney and ED SUL­LIV/\N. on August 21, at Wllllamsville, New York. Best wishes and congratulations to both of you. 
PAUL W. KRUSE, JR., who received his B.S. In Physics In 1951 with us, went on to earn an 
M.S. In 1952 and Ph.D. In 1954, both in Physics and from Notre Dame. He was married to Miss ^fargaret Fitzpatrick in St. Paul, Minn., on January 23, 1954, and is now with Farnsworth Electronics Company in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
BILL McNALLY and Miss Catherine Shea were married on May 31 in St. Joseph's Church, New­port, Rhode Island. They arc now residing in Wilmington, Delaware, where Bill is a chemical engineer with the DuPont de Nemours Company. Congratulations, Bill, and best wishes to you, Cathy. 
Announcement of birth—a daughter, Ellen Mar­garet, to Peg and BILL WALSH on July 20. Their address—^56 Rumford Street, Concord, N. Y. Con­gratulations!! 
On a trip South, I visited Hx\NK MADDEN, his wife Sally, and their new daughter, Lynn Marie, born August 17, 1954, and the entire family is well and very happy. Hank Is stationed at the Na\y 
KANSAS CITY—Mrs. John G. Meyers won the mink stole awarded by the Alimi­ni Club auxiliary. Daughter Ann Marie marvels at her mother*s prize. Mrs. Meyer's father-in-law, John R. Meyers, ^vas graduated from Notre Dame's law school in 1899. 
base outside of Brunswick, Georgia (Glynco), and Is Assistant Public ^Vorks Officer. Really a good duty as they live on St. Simon's Island and are surrounded with resort life. Their address is 414 Ashantilly Avenue, St. Simon's Island. 
Announcement of birth—a son, Joe, Jr., to Jean and JOE GALLOWAY on July 31, 1954. Their address is I0I7 So. 47th Street, Philadelphia 43, Pa. 
TOM MULLEN'S new address is now the Uni­versity Club, Washington, D. C. Hc^s still with Piasecki Helicopter Corporation and is enjoying his work more than ever as the assistant contracts administrator in D. C. Tom also writes that he recently took a three-week vacation In Europe—see 
the advantages of being single fellows!! He reports that he saw DICK GIEDLIN at the Washington Airport one day, and that Dick is playing ball with a team from Wilkes-Barre and is very happy. Good luck, Dick. 
I attended the Purdue game and wasn't too pleased with the outcome, but I did see Joey and DICK MCDONALD, HARRY HANIG.VN and PAT McATEER who is back at Notre Dame doing some post-graduate work. 
Incidentally, I was married on September 4 to Miss Margaret Ann Sclinellbacher of Washington, 
D. C , and highly recommend married life, now that I'm a month-old veteran, particularly with such a wonderful gal as I've been fortunate enough to marry. 
Let's have some news from all of you fellows. 
Harry L. Buch 

1952 309 Fisher HaU Notre Dame, Indiana 
JOSEPH D. UAUFERSUXILER received a master of science degree and FRANCIS A. MAR20LF, JR., a master of arts degree from Ohio State Uni­versity at commencement exercises held June 11. 
EL.MER LAYDEN, JR. and WALLY PURCELL were on campus for the Purdue football game. Both are out of the ser\ice and Elmer is working for the International Harvester Company. Wally is still looking for a job. 
RICHARD A. STUBBING received a masters degree In business administration from Harvard this past summer. 
HOWARD G. HANEY received a masters degree in business administration from Harvard at the summer commencement. 
HENRY F. CROWLEY has recently been pro­moted to Corporal while serving in Japan with the 503rd Mllitarv Intelligence Ser\ice Companv. 
LT. (j.g.) DANA G. FFTZPATRICK has been released from active duty in the U. S. Na\y. He intends to return to Ellicottville, N. Y., to join his father's business Brm. 
RICHARD B. SULLIVAN Is teaching social studies at Yuba City Union High School, Yuba City, Calif. This year he Is head of the histor>' department at the high school. His address Is 915 "G " Street, ^fa^^•sviUe, Calif. 
WENDELL F. BUECHE has been assigned to the Cleveland district sales ofHce of the AIUs-Chalmers Manufacturing Company as a sales rep­resentative. 
P\T . ROBERT PETERSON is now stationed with the 30th Ordnance Ammunition Company, APO 180, U. S. Army, c/o Postmaster, New York, 
N. Y. He reports having met JIM O'BRIEN in Germany recently. Bob is company clerk and has had a chance to do a bit of sight-seeing in addition to his milltar>' duties. His outfit is located in Micsau, Germany. 
Have received a few letters since the last issue of the ALUMNUS but business Is really slow. Drop me a line today. 
GEORGE ^ROSS Is stationed at Rockfort Ar­senal, France, as an instructor in Ordnance Supply. He is married and has a daughter, Janet Lynn. JOHN C. H.ARRINGTON returned from Korea in April after serving a year there as a 1st lieutenant in the Marine Corps. Now he Is a member of the Life Insurance Company In Boston. JOHN O'NEILL is with the- Marines In Hawaii and CHARLIE MCCARTHY and wife are in the south-em part of Italy. 
A baby girl was born to Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE 
W. MARGET, II, at Coleman Hospital, Indian­apolis, Ind. Tlie child was chtistcned Amy Murray. Mr. and Mrs. VICTOR KROEGER also had a baby girl, Mar>'anne, born in June. 
Heard from BOB HICKEY who Is stationed in Leghorn, Italy. He was drafted last January after having completed one year of Law School at Georgetown University. Bob says he met TOM REEDY and his uife and JACK WHEL.AN and 
Notre Dame Alumntts, November-December, 1954 45 
his wUcj Sue, on their honejinoon. 
ROBERT C. BUTLER announced his engase­
mcnt to Eileen Carol Hudson at a cocktail party. 
At present he Is stationed at the Japan Medical 
Depot in Ota Honshu, Japan. He has been as­
signed as an accountant in the Financial Account­
ing Branch of the Medical Ser\-icc, THOMAS E. 
LEONARD is now with Touchc, Ntven, Bailey and 
Smart, Accountants, located in Chicago. He is 
married and has a son, Michael James, bom in 
April of this year. 
LT. BOB KLEIN is now the Post Budget 
Officer at Fort McClclIan, Ala., and only recently 
became engaged to Miss Louise CliofHn of Chicago. 
The ^%'edding will take place over tlie Christmas 
holidays. 
SGT. RICEIARD DILLON is now married and 
located with the U. S. Army Auditing Agcnc>* in 
Columbus, Ohio. 
LT. WALTER J. LANDRY, U.S.M.C., u-as in 
Korea and is due to be discharsed in August or 
September. He hopes to go to law school and 
work as an engineer. While overseas he ran into 
ED PERT in Korea, HAYES KENNEDY in Japan 
and JOE BARDASH who is in the Air Force 
stationed in tho Azores. 
DICK WEILER is in Korea working in the office of the A Company, 702 Ord. Bn. JACK QUET^CH is about 100 yards down the road from him in the 9th Infantr>' Personnel Office. They ran into SAM MOXAZ-ALE and had a couple of cool ones on him. BILL MARTIN is now in Karls­rtihe, Germany, attached to the 529th Field Artil­lery Obsen'ation Battalion. 
GEORGE GLASER was married in August as 
was DAN BEBINECK. JACK MALIK will be mar­
ried here at scliool on October 23rd. 
Well, that's all the news I have at tliis writing. Keep the mail coming and I'll do my best to relay your whereabouts. 
JOSEPH P. BELLON served as a student assist­ant in the office of the U. S. Attorney General during the past summer. He is now attending St. John's University Law Scliool, Brookl>Ti. Joe re­ceived a full three-year law school scholarship awarded by St. John's for outstanding scholarship while an under-graduate at Notre Dame. 
JAMES L. FREIMUTH has enrolled as a mem­ber of the June, 1955, class of the American Insti­tute for Foreign Trade at Thundcrbird Field, Phoenix, Ariz. The course of study at the insti­tute concentrates on techniques of international business administration, foreign languages and char­acteristics of foreign countries. He has taken the schoors intensive training course in preparation for a career in American business or management abroad. 
1 OC3 Eugene D. Fanning 
Fanning Chevrolet, Inc. 
415 West State Street 
Geneva, Illinois 
ALBERT J. CRIST received a master of arts degree from Ohio State University' on June 11. 
EDWARD R. KENNEDY received a master of education degree from Pcnns>'K'ania State University on Juno 7. 
GEORGE HIGGINS is at present on a military-leave of absence from the Kansas City branch of the Kroger Company. 
TOM WERNER has just completed an 18-month sales training program witli the Sutlierland Paper Company and has been assigned to the Louisville, Ky., territory-. 
2nd LT. LOUIS A. DOERR, JR., recently re­ceived his \rings as a jet pilot at \ViIlianis Air Force Base, Chandler, Ariz. , 
EDWARD F. CONDON, JR., at last report was in the process of being transferred to the U.S^. Iowa where he \*'ill be an ensign in the electronics and communications division of the ship. 
(Editor's note: Our apologies to the following alumni and their wives for a garbled version of who married whom in the August-September ALUM­NUS marriage column. Unfortunately, a transposi­tion of lines at the printers occurred w-hich threw the true story off base: (This is what really hap­pened)—LAWRENCE D. PRIDMORE, JR., ^vas married to Miss Jeanne Thcrcse Barrett on May 29 at St. Francis Xavier Church, LaGrange, 111.; AR­THUR T. PULTE was married to Miss Beth Ann Smithbcrgcr in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame on May 2; ROBERT G. STRALEY and Miss Bar­bara Jean Schultz were married in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame on May 22.) 

4€ Noire Dame Alumnus, November-December, 19:t4 
(Editor's note: GENE FANNING has resigned 
from the shoe manufacturing business and has be­
come associated witli his brother, ED, '39, in 
Fanning Chevrolet, Inc., Geneva, III.) 
I received a great number of letters from the 
alumni of '53 and I first would like to extend my 
thanks to all those who have been so cooperative 
in dropping a short note to let us know of their 
whereabouts and the activity of other classmates. 
BILL DeCRICK is in the tank section of a Reconnaissance Company at Fort Hoop, Texas. Bill makes mention that wliilc going through armor training at Fort Knox, he ran into JOE DESAU­TELS, NORB LEWTNSKI and VIC GEORGE who w*ere stationed there at the time. 
GEARY BECKER reports from Camp Torlugucro, 
Puerto Rico, tliat he is tcadiing English to Puerto 
Rican soldiers. This base is located but thirty miles 
from San Juan. 
Our congratulations to Lieut. THOMAS F. MURPHY and Mrs. Murphy who announce the birth of a little red-headed baby girl. Kfurph is stationed with the Air Force in ^Vashington, D. C. and says that he's playing quite a bit of football with the Boiling Air Force team. We all wish him well on his arrival and express sincere hopes that the Air Force team still uses the two-platoon system. 
JIM MITCHELL writes from Okinawa where he is stationed in the R>'ukyus Command Headquarters as a Clerk Typist and Examination Specialist. JIM McGLYNN is also there with the Staff Judge Advocate. 
JOLTING JOE COSTANZO dropped a m*ce note and informed me of the addition of Joe III. His proud dad is General Manager of the Bradford Community Baseball Club of Bradford, Pcnnsyl­\-ania, a farm club of the Philadelphia Phils. Joe says that Frank Lane's job is now in jeopardy. Joe also reports that KER\VIN FULTON has com­pleted his first year in Columbia Law School along with ARCH ARGEN finishing his first year at Georgetown University- Medical scliool. 
JOE BUCKHEIT is now a lieutenant in Uncle Sam's Na\-y . . , while PAT ROSS received his masters degree in Phy. Ed. from Pcnn. State. 
CHUCK STIMMING writes from Seoul that he and BUD STUHLDREHER got together in Korea for a day of enjoyment with Bud being stationed at Inchon. . . . LARRY Md^ALLY is awaiting his orders after completing Water Supply School at Fort Bclvoir. 
BOB VISINTIXE writes that he has finished his first year in Medical School at Ohio State Univer­sity. He also reports that JIM KLINK was mar­ried this summer along with DOC STEJSKOL. 
Our congratulations to VIC BUKHOLT and his uife upon the arri\-al of a future Notre Dame man. 
JOHN LEONARD took the former Miss Barbara Frc>-bler of Grand Rapids, Michigan, as his bride last May and now both are in Panama where John is stationed in the Army. 
Received a nice long note from LEN LcROSE from Fort McPherson, Ga., where the "hot comer man'* is now stationed in Third Army Headquar­ters. Len writes tliat prior to his assignment in Georgia, he was down at Fort Jackson, South Carolina with BOB ZENZINGER. 
AL ELLSWORTH vmtes from Gulfport, Missis­sippi, w*herc he is stationed at the United States Naval Construction Battalion Center. His brother, JERRY ELLS\VORTH, was married in July and is now stationed with the Army Audit Agency that is presently doing auditing work at the Continental Motors Corp- in Muskegon, Michigan. He is ex­pecting a little Ellsworth sometime in February. Al also relates tliat RAY KORZEN is at the Scott Air Force Base outside of Springfield, Illinois. . . . 2nd Lt. JACK DcCOURSEY is with the 3rd Ma­rine Division in Japan. . . . Ensign DICK MO­LOKIE is on the U.S.S. Telfair in the Pacific . . . Ensign PAUL FARMER is stationed at the Xa'.'al Supply Center in Norfolk, Va. Paul was married on July 24th to Esther AlHnger of South Bend. . . . Ensign RON ^VONG is the Disburs­ing Officer on the hospital ship, the U.S.S. Con­solation, somewhere in the Pacific. 
Ensign JAY CURLEY writes that he has just retmned from Helsinki and is now in Northern Europe on the U.S.S. Glennon. . . . BILL BAR­RETT writes from Engineer School at Fort Bcl­voir, Va., where he is studying along with LARRY O'AIARA. He gives us further information that LARRY McNALLY is now shipping to tlie Far East by way of Fort Lewis, Washington. 
The usual wedding circuit took place in the "Windy City" during the summer with my room­mate, DAN JAMES moving cautiously up the aisle to Miss Corinnc O'Brien of River Forest, Illinois. 
After a terrific reception where quite a few Notre 
Dame men took the pledge, they moved on to a 
short hone>-moon in the East and then to Fort 
Eustis, Virginia, where Dan is stationed in Main­
tenance Division along with JAMES T. O'BRIEN. 
Heard through TOM REEDY's folks that Tom 
and his bride will have an addition shortly after 
the first of the year in Athens, Greece, where Tom 
is serving out his duration. Not to be outdone, 
LARRY PRIDMORE and the former Miss Jean 
Barrett will add a third plate for dinner sometime 
in Mardi. 
That is about it for now. I sincerely hope tliat the letters will continue to come in at the present pace. My kindest regards to all and best of luck. 
1954 U.S.S. Gunston Hall (LSDS) 
c/o Fleet Post Office 
San Franclsoc, California 
EDSON MILLER is associated v%ith the Kroger Company in tlieir Pittsburgh branch. DAVID DEWEESE is working for the Kroger Co. in Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
ROBERT BLOOM is at present on a militar>-Icavc of absence from the Fort ^Vayne branch of the Kroger Co. 
DON MCLAUGHLIN is working for the Kroger 
Co. in Cleveland, Ohio. 
ROBERT M. STILL is now working for the DuPont Company's Sabine River works at Orange, Texas. 
VINCENT R. FERNANDES has been commis­sioned a 2nd Lieutenant in the infantry at Ft. Campbell, Ky. 
DICK COLLOTON recently signed a contract with the Brooklyn Dodgers and this past summer played for the Newport News, Va., team in the class B Piedmont League prior to entering the Army in August. 
Plenty of information for our inaugural column in the ALUMNUS thanks to the lengthy letters oC too few of ^-ou. I'm going to ask that you use the above address instead of my home address for all future correspondence because I am now enjoy­ing an Oriental cruise on the above noted lead bucket. Before leaving San Diego I attended some Navy scliools with CHRIS MALONE, MILT BEAU­DINE, BOB SCHWTN'N, JERRY TURLEY, D.\N MUNSON and JLM DeCOURSEY. We all had the pleasure one evening of refreshments at Major JACK DALEY'S home; many of you will remember him as an NROTC instructor at Notre Dame in '50 and '51. Ran into DAVE BURRELL out here while he vv-as vacationing witli his parents prior to entering the Holy Cross seminary at Jordan, Minn. Best of luck to you, Dave. ^Vliile visiting the local Shakespearean fcstiv-al one evening I v^-as amazed to find DUKE RANK among the cast. 
Many thanks to FATHER GLENN BOARMAN, C.S.C., who has supplied mc with enough material to write a novel on Fisher Hall alone. He reports that: 
Ens. GEORGE HUBBARD completed the Navy Supply School at Athens, Ga., and vvas married in Chicago on September 25. Ens. CHARLIE KEL­LER and Ens. JACK PITTAS went through Naval Justice School together in Newport, R. I. Ens. ED BRO\\'N is the Communications Officer aboard the USS Escape (ARS-6), c/o F.P.O., New York. 
2nd Lt. JIM INGRAM was married to Marv-Slahl (Tom's sister) on September 5 in Madison, Soutli Dakota, and is now living at 307 Hanover Street in Fredericksburg, Va. JACK CUNNING­HAM is in Med School at Albany. 
JACK LIMBERT completed summer camp at Mitchel AFB and headed for graduate work in accounting at Penn this fall. DICK READY spent the summer in an accounting firm waiting for Uncle Sam to shout, "Ready." 
DICK DENIGER is working witli his father at thnr Idaho seed company. JACK REUBA has been engaged in selling cars while w-aiting for his Air Force rommission to come tlirough. 
JOE QUAIN is vrith the Lehigh Valley R.R. at 6 Broadway just two blocks from where GERRY KIEFER is working for the Irving Trust Co. CHARLIE MANION and DON CUDDIHEE have deserted the bachelor class but no information on the better half of these two couples. 
JERRY SMITH spent the summer improving his golf game at the expense of his opponent. Father Glenn, and vrill continue same this fall while at the Notre Dame Law School. TONY "TRIGGER" TRIGIANA has been sporting a new convertible : along the highways between Pennsylvania and ­

South Bend, but no news of his intentions or plans as yet. 
SCOTTY SULLIVAN has been dealing in Buicks while waiting for more final action on his lA classification. FRED MANGIALARDI is \rarking with Sears and Co. in Chi-town. LEE BROCK­WAV is employed with an cnginccrins firm in Kalamazoo. 
Tlianks again, Father^ for all of the news, keep it coming and remind the Fislientes of old that they could all be included in this roundup by dropping a line to yours truly. 
BILL GUILFOILE is working on his Ensign bars at OCS and can be found at: Section B-5, Officers Candidate School, U. S. Naxy Training Center, Ncwpo''t» R- I- Along with Bill is the newly married JOE GIOVANINI and bachelors JOHN KELSCH, BRUCE HARRISON and RAY KURKOWSKI. Bill reports that: 
JESSE JOLLY was married on August 7 and expects to be drafted this fait. JOE IMBRIACO has been enrolled in the Har\'ard Law School this fall. LEE BAZAN Y is employed in an accounting firm in Chicago. TOM AHERN is in Texas in the Army. BILL LOY is working for General Electric Co. in Green Bay, Wisconsin. TOM McDERMOTT, PHIL BOON, the TIERNEY twins are all at Quantico in basic school, 
BILL PAGAN is working for the iron mines in Hibbing, Minnesota. PAUL KROUSE returned to la\vr school at Notre Dame this fall, while liis nmning mate, BOB FARNBAUCH continues his accounting work at Akron U. 
FRED PAXTON was married to Pegg>- Sabcl on July 10 and is working for the Paducih Sun Democrat. JERRY NIES is attending Jefferson Med Sdiool along with HARRY HADLOCK. 
BOB FRIES was married August 24 to Julie Skelly and is working for Peat, Marwich, Mitchell, Public Accounting Firm in Eric, Pa, AL WALTER is working \vith the N. Y. Life Insurance Co. in the actuarian department. Thanks for the news of the above. Bill, keep it coming. 
KARL WIENEKE sent a long letter describing his "gallivanting around the west lor six weeks," and reports on the following men. Georgetown Med School gets the services of LOU MAFFEI, DAVE FERANTE, HAL REILLY and that hilari­ous and dangerous combination of TOM "FIN­GERS" NEUMYER and KARL "HORSES" WIE­NEKE himscU. JIM RICHARDS, we bcUevc, con­tinues there in the Foreign Scr^-ice School. BYRON \VILLIAMS, PHIL HIGGINS and MIKE LEVIS continue their medical studies at St. Louis U., while "BIG PAUL" KELLY heads to Michigan for the same. KIM HE\VSON will be at Jefferson in Philadelphia. FRANK BOTT is at Northwestern Med and .JOHN "PEE ^\'EE" DOHERTY is at Tufts. TOM MORRIS is in Med School at Co­lumbia and BILL DUTER is on the Dental School rolls thcre-
JIM and JACK MULLANE are ^vorking in their father's automobile agency in Lockport, New York. HUGH BRAY is also working with his father in his So. Dakota dry goods store. 
LEN ^^'ELCH's career with Associates Invest­ment in Louisville has been interrupted by OCS at Quantico. JOHN SULLIVAN is in Law School at Yale. 
PAT FOLEY sent a long letter reporting on all of the social life back in our home town, great morale booster that kid. He says that ROY JOHNS is with Fisher Body in Detroit in an ex­ecutive position. He has been living >vith JOHN KELSCH, VERN ESSIE, RALPH BONANATA and WALT BERNARD, who are all employed by accounting firms in the motor city. 
JOE D*ATONI »-as commissioned at Camp Campbell along with BILL REYNOLDS and DAVE FOY, all of whom answered Uncle Sugar's call in October. There were others commissioned with them; let's hear from you, 
JIM EWALD walked down the aisle in Tiffin recently, no details, however. DAVE BICKEL is working for the Pcnns>*I\-ania R. R. in Buffalo while ED CHRISTIANO gathers wages from RCA in New York. 
Ens. GENE HOWLEY reports a soft desk job and many week-end excursions from Norfolk during the summer, but September marked the beginning of flight training for him at Pcnsacola. How about a note from the rest of you "Mredales" down there. 
LARRY MULLIN answered Fort Benning's re­quest for his company in October while JACK SEXTON left about the same^time for flight training in the'Air Force. 
MICKEY MORAN reported a slow summer io Memphis claiming that he was going to stroll dovra to the draft board and find out what's cookin*. No news on that yet. Ens. JAKE NQONAN has been in the CIC School in Glcnview, HI. On this coast we covered it in one month, it took him five —must be a school for retarded Ensigns. Jake reports that JERRY BAIER is in the Counter In* telh'gence Corps of the Army, while his twin(?), Jay, has entered Northwestern Law School and is busy looking for managerial jobs of any type that offer a young man substantial financial reward. SKIP CRANE Has been working with IBM in Chicago while w^ting for an Army call. 
TOM MURPHV sent greetings before receiving his greetings and then joined CHARLIE WAGNER in an August draft call. He reports that JACK BREZETTE is employed with a Naptown auditing firm. Both Murpb and Charlie enjoyed summer tours of the country before taking their graduate work at Ft. Leonard Wood. RON MAZZOU was drafted in July. 
Have saved until last the news of BOB Mc-GLYNN because it is such a perfect example of what we need to make this effort a success. The note came from Bob's newly taken bride, Elizabeth Foley, SMC '52, who gave a good account of thetr wedding on June 19 in Portland, including the news that six of the weddii^ party were at one time, or still are, Notre Dame or St. 7kfary*s students, somewhat of a record we believe. Bob and Elizabeth are now in Minneapolis where Bob is working on his masters degree in Hospital Administration at the University of Minnesota. There you are, it's as simple as all that. 
I'd enjoy hearing from you just as much as others enjoy hearing about you, so keep passing the word along. No strain to it, postcard, back of a Miller's label, old dollar bills, anything you can ^mte on will do. One caution, please affix an !ur mail stamp to it or I'll be receiving my discharge about the same time your postals catch up with me. 
Enough breeze for now, counting on enough ma* terial for the next issue to justify changing the cover of this magazine to read, the *54 ALtJMNUS­
It's later Than You Think.,.. 
Alumni who have not contributed to the 12th Aimual Alumni Fund can 
still get under the wire before year-end. Don't delay—please send 
your gift now to the Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
And besides your own personal participation in alumni-giving, Notre Dame is still gratefully receiving contributions from . . . 
• CORPORATIONS 
• FOUNDATIONS 
* INSURANCE 

• WILLS AND BEQUESTS 
Regardless of the amount you give ... . be a giver. 
Notre Dame Alumnw, Novtmbtr-December, 1^4 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Ojjicers 
John H. N'ecson, Jr., '35 Honoran' President James G. McGoIdrick, "39 President 
J. Ralpli Corjn, '22 First \'ice-Pre5idcnt John W. Courtney. "25 Second \"ice-President Dr. Leo D. 0"DonneII, "17 Third \'icc-President 
James E. .-\nnstrong, '25 Director and Secretary-
Directors to 1955 
James G. McGoIdrick, "39 11 Broadway, Xew York, New York 
J. Ralph Corvn. "22 2545 13th St., Moline, 111. John W. Courtnev. "25 ....401 S. Highland Dr., Dearborn, ifich. 
Karl Martcrstcck, '29 ..1630 Williamson Bldg., Cleveland. Ohio 
Directors to 1956 
Daniel Culhane, '23 130 East Bradley Lane, Chevy Chase, Md. Dr. Leo D. O'Donnell, '17 5121 Ellsworth .\vc., Pittsburgh, Pa. John F. Saunders, '31 Handschu­macher & Co., 48 Xorth St., Boston, Mass. Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. B. Tooniey, '26 261 E. Onondaca, Svracuse. X. Y. 
Directors to 1957 
James L. Ferstel, "48 730 Sheridan Road, Wilmette, 111. Robert H. Gore, Jr., "31 Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. John E. Mclntvre. '31 206 East Tutt St., South Bend, Ind. Joseph I. O'Xeill, Jr.. '37 209 X. Big Spring St., Midland, Texas 
Chairmen of the 1954 Comrnittees 
James G. McGoIdrick Executive John F. Saunders Budget and Finance Dr. Leo D. 0"Donnell 
Foundation, .-Munini Fund, Gifts John W. Courtney Club .Activities 
J. Ralph Coryn Class .Vctivities Dr. Leo D. 0"DonneIl Job Counseling and Placement John W. Courtney Religion and Citizenship Msgr. Joseph B. Toomcy Prestige and Public Relations Karl Martcrstcck 
Preparator>- School Relations Daniel Culhane....Inter-American .Association 
J. Ralph Cor>n Resolutions Daniel Culhane Xominations 

The Alumni Association 
University of Notre Dame 
Xovcnibcr 2, 1954 Dear Notre Dame Men: 
In his scniion comnicnioratin!; the beginning of this academic year, Notre Dame's 113th, Father Hcsburgh called attention to the growing dis­trust of our intellectual leadership at thb unfortunate time when the world should be looking to great minds for leadership. Ha\ing in mind the rever­sal of this trend by a return to the knowledge of the belief in and the prac­tice of Christian principles under the inspiration of Christian educators, he expressed the prime factor of Notre Dame's aggressive and forward-looking educational program by stating, "The time is ripe," to make Notre Dame "a new center of Christian culture." We, the .Munmi, are confident of Notre Dame's ultimate success in this mission. What is now being done to achieve thb goal, some of you have asked. I will briefly note some recent and perti­nent facts. You, who questioned, may then judge for yourselves. 
Notre Dame's Second .Annual Institute of Spirituality was held on the campus during the sunmier months and was attended by 650 nuns and Sister Superiors, representing virtually every women's religious order in the United States. The Institute was addressed by His Eminence Valerio Cardi­nal \'aleri, Prefect of the Sacred Congregation of the Religious. The 16th .Annual Convention of the Catholic Students Mission Crusade was held on the campus, the keynote address was made by .Archbishop Carl J. Alter of Cincinnati. .A three-day meeting of tlie Mission Sending Societies, attended by 250 representatives of religious orders, was held on the campus and was addressed by the Most Reverend Fulton J. Sheen, National Director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith. 
Father Hcsburgh has been appointed a member of the National Sci­ence Board of the United States. He has received the Brotherhood .Award of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table Conference of Christians and Jews. He has toured Europe to further the objectives of the Faculty Develop­ment Program. The University has been host at ceremonies on the campus welcoming a new economic force to the South Bend community, the new Studebaker-I'ackard Corporation. 
The Notre Dame College of Law has inaugurated a Journal of Natu­ral Law Studies in the publication of which Notre Dame educators will be joined by educators representing many other of the nation's leading univer­sities and law scliools. LOBUND has been selected as the recipient of a $40,­000 color-translating ultra-violet microscope, a gift of the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund for Cancer Research. This microscope is the first of its kind to be made available connnercially to any college, university or research cen­ter. Many Notre Dame educators have been the recipients of honors from their colleagues in professional associations. .A goodly number of recent gradu­ates have received fellowships for graduate study awarded by organizations such as the National Council of Religion in Higher Education and by the National Science Foundation. 
These are only a few of the actual accomplishments which justify our confidence in the University's ultimate success in its goal to become "a new-center of Christian culture." In your behalf, I offer our prayers and ma­terial aid to Father Hcsburgh in this effort to accomplish a goal so necessary in our world. 
Vci^' truly yours. 
James G. McGoIdrick President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 








