The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
«o 
NOTRE DAME 
>^^', 

I ij 
^M 
mm 

II 
••^V:,.;/,. .•>_-.y.^.,?,V ,v:V-,.--'-* .^'.-^i- .,..••. .'ULW-MP^WIBaagSa^esB 
. This mogartne is published ^-mOT^^^K^Vf^Llniveroty' i i- Notre Dome. Notre Dome, ]nd. Enf^nJU^^^H^TCIoss matf«j 
• Oct. I. 1939. at the post office, Mot^^dlBKl., under t Koctof Aug. 24, 191Z 
'^^tiS •-•'-'-•^'^•^ 
' 

ll' • J 
mm 
|$hifeywiiiM'^ilehf! in tw 
m^m^^iiyi-6fiii...^., , . „ , ,..„, , -....— ^._ , 
|VTir<>h>prd^^«^t^ for -66: Innovation: also makes its mark ihtitii issue With th«.report^^<^ iJm^f^|f%e<9«^ in the;July%ug^ 
nans frpnt^^tnofnrsf ^ 
# 
^^^g^«^^j^;,^;^^~;i^^^ 
 THE falling autumn leaves 
A
s 
I signal the end of summer, fresh changes in the academic, topo­
graphic and disciplinary complexion of Notre Dame will mark the birth of the 125th school year. 
The population of the University, as it does every September, will burgeon—this fall to a total enroll­ment of about 7,333. Joining the upperclassmen will be a dass of promising freshmen whose college board scores have once again obeyed recent tradition and exceeded those of last year's class. The 1,585 in­coming frosh boast an average board 
Shifting to the undergraduate schools. Father Walsh noted the Junior Seminar, heretofore only for liberal arts students, this year will be taught to engineering students. Also on the undergraduate horizon is the expansion of the coexchange program started last year with St. Mary's. Evidence of greater cooper­ation between the two schools is found in the merger of the institu­tions' theatrical efiforts. Beginning this fall, both courses and stage pro­ductions will fall under the overall supervision of Notre Dame's depart­ment of communication arts. 
their transportation. 
But not all is in their favor alone. The campus resident will now have to cope with a no-curfew regulation. Rev. Joseph B. Simons CSC, dean of students, says, "Except for fresh­men, there will be no curfew. We are leaving that sort of thing up to the men in the halls to set." Father Simons is emphasizing greater com­munity spirit and autonomy in the halls, he says, "so the rector will be restored to his pastoral role." And a Changing Skyline. Changes in academic curriculum and in dis­cipUnary regulations are also ac-
score of 568 verbal and 625 mathematicaL 
The College of Science will provide one of the most formidable chal­lenges to the first-year group. About 100 freshmen will undertake a pilot program titled "Unified Program in Science for Non-Science Majors." It is designed to give liberal arts and business administration students a better, more unified view of the scientific and technological world around them. Life science, inte­grated chemistry and physics, and earth and space science will be offered. Academic. In outlining the 1966­1967 academic year. Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, vice-president for aca­demic affairs, picked out a few of the other highlights. Indicating that the University will give greater empha­sis to graduate studies. Father Walsh noted that both the Institute for Advanced Religious Studies and a doctoral program in theology will be inaugurated this fall. In addi­tion, a graduate department of microbiology unde r Dr. Morris Pollard will begin this school year. 
Two groups of undergraduates left the United States in August to begin their Sophomore Year Abroad. This year for the first time a con­tingent of 50 (25 Notre Dame and 25 St Mary's) students went to Angers, France . Innsbruck, of course, was the destination of the other batch of sophomores—all from Notre Dcune. Disciplinary. Probably the happiest segment of the entire student body will be the off-campus residents. A glance at the 1966-67 Student Man­ual under University Rules on page two, number two, is a boldface NOTE that is as wondrous for what it does not say as it is for what it does say: 
Because of lack of adequate trans­
portation in South Bend, all off-
campus students, regardless of 
age, who have motor vehicles, 
must register them with the Dean 
of Students through the Security 
Offica 

Jingling their car keys in their pockets, ofif-campus students — re­gardless of age — are certain to welcome the new decree governing companied this fall by a University with a changing skyline. Greatest evidence of the latter is now found in the general vicinity of the sta­dium. East of the "house that Rockne buUt" construction has begun on the mammoth, SS-miUion­plu s Athletic and Convocation Center. And back by the bus stop, a new Post Oflice will begin to rise. Behind Nieuwland Science HEJI con­struction wDl be under way this year where a one-story addition will house a gigantic $700,000 fifteen-million-electron-volt Tandem Van De Graafif Accelerator to be used by University nuclear physicists. 
With the growing need for more parking space, the University has also had the summer dust rising around the site of the now obliter­ated tennis courts. A new blacktop parking lot, built at an estimated cost of about $100,000, will greet the September returnees as will a subtle duange in traflBc patterns: Notre Dame Avenue will be one-way north­bound. To leave the campus, one must drive east from the bus stop past the stadium to Juniper Road. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER ^966 OCTOBER . 

Even though the University wiU have a new blacktop parking lot this year, parking, particularly for football games, remains a problem. Herb Jones, athletic business man­ager, has been heard to say that about 3,500 parking spaces have been lost in the past few years due to the expansion of the University. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, execu­tive vice-president of Notre Dame, explains, however, that areas farther from the stadium will be put in use this fall. "The fans will have to walk a little farther, that's all," he said. 
Nevertheless, football and the parking problems will fade as winter draws closer. The academic year wUl roll on, the t\vin-domed Athletic and Convocation Center will edge upward into the skyline, and more cars and fewer restrictions will keep both the students and the dean of students office busy. And although the school year can be numbered 125th, the timeless quality of the University — freshman class intro­duced and a senior class graduated 
— will prevail. 
Robert Penn Warren characterized this timelessness best when he wrote, "Now we shall go out of the house and go into the convulsion of the world, out of history into his­tory and the awful responsibility of time." • 
R. Patrick Slrickler '65 
PAROCHIAL SCHOOL STUDY: 



Enrollment Problem 
The nation's Catholic elementary and secondary schools have a good academic record, but they enroll less than half of the nearly 11,500,000 youngsters eligible to attend them. 
This single, most prominent fact together with other findings was re­leased in late August by the Univer­sity when it announced the results of its unprecedented three-year na­tionwide study of American Catholic grade and high schools. The results of the study, conducted since 1962 by the University with the support of a $350,000 grant from the Car­negie Corporation of New York, are contained in the book. Catholic Schools in Action: The Notre Dame Study of Catholic Elementary and Secondary Schools in the United 
cent of those eligible through infant baptism to enroll. Some of the study's other find­ings revealed: 
1.
 Even if the percentage of eli­gible students enrolling in Catholic schools remains the same as in 1962-63, additional facilities costing an estimated $721,610,000 will be re­quired in the 1968-69 school year. 

2.
 Catholic schools nationally Jire unable to accommodate applicants equivalent to 20 percent of those en­rolled in the first grade and 30 per­cent of the ninth-grade enrollment. 

3.
 Although there is one lay teach-





sights and sounds 
States (University of Notre Dame Press). Its editor is Reginald A. Neuwien, the director of the study. 
In releasing the report, the study's executive committee of three na­tionally prominent educators—Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, Notre Dame president; Rt. Rev. Msgr. Frederick G. Hochwalt, executive secretary of the National Catholic Educational Association; and Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the Notre Dame president and former president of Hunter College—said it provides "a great deal of infor­mation never available before .. . a picture of the Catholic educational endeavor which has hitherto been missing." 
The report states that students enrolled in Catholic grade and high schools are "superior" on the scale of national norms both in "academic achievement" and "learning poten­tial." This indicated superiority, however, can be attributed largely to the "relatively selective" admis­sions policies of Catholic schools which, during 1962-63, admitted 5,351,354 students or only 46.74 per-
of 

Notre Dame 
er to every 2.24 religious in Catholic elementary schools, lay teachers feel that they are "not accepted as pro­fessional co-equals" by the religious teachers or by the parents of chil­dren in Catholic schools. 
4.
 The attitudes of Catholic school children on a great variety of sub­jects differs not only with tiieir indi­vidual backgrounds, but also with the region, the diocese eind peculiar local circumstances. 

5.
 Parents of children in Catholic schools attach more importance to the schools' religious-moral goals than to their intellectual or voca­tional objectives. 


The research involved 92 percent (9,451) of the nation's Catholic grade schools and 84 percent (2,075) of American Catholic secondary schools. Its findings are based on questionnaires completed by 103,000 elementary school teachers, nearly 40,000 high school teachers, 9,450 elementary and 2,075 secondary school principals, and 24,000 parents as well as testing of thousands of students and depth studies in thir­teen dioceses. • 

GRANTS: 
Research Aids Community 
This spring and summer, members of the University's faculty were awarded grants in excess of a half-million dollars to sponsor 12 projects on educational and public service programs. A unique feature of these projects is that none is dedicated to research alone; each is designed to implement community improvement through university studies. 
The US Department of Health, Education and Welfare, through the office of juvenile delinquency and youth development, has awarded the University a one-year grant of $166,227 to establish a pilot program in the rehabilitation of young parolees. Administered by the Uni­versity's Center for the Study of Man in Contemporary Society, the program is aimed at laying the groundwork for proposed "work re­lease" legislation. The Inland Steel Co. will offer three to four weeks of simulated job training in proce­dures and safety to youthful of­fenders from the Indiana State Re­formatory. Upon completion of the training, course parolees ivill be aided in job placement Directing the program are Dr. Frank J. Fahey of the sociology department and Hugh P. O'Brien, also of the so­ciology department and former head of the Indiana Board of Corrections. 
The master of arts-in-teaching program at Notre Dame was the re­cipient of a three-year grant totaling $60,880 for faculty improvement, li-
FALL CLASS REUNIONS 
Fall Class Reunions immedi­ately following the Purdue Game (Sept. 2Ji) and the Army Game (Oct. SJ have been planned by class officers. At press time, the schedule reflected these class gatlierings: 

CLASS  OF  192S  
Army  lO-i  O'Shaugh.  
CLASS  OF  1929  
Army  Engr.  Bldg.  

ROGKNE TEAMS OF 1929-30 Army Holiday Inn CLASS OF 195J, Purdue 221-B Engr. Bldg. CLASS OF 1955 Purdue .... Mhgny Rm, Morris Inn CLASS OF 1957 Army 103 O'Shaugh. CLASS OF 195S Army Mhgny Rm, Morris Inn CLASS OF 1960 Army 102 O'Sliaugh. CLASS OF 1962 Army 105 O'Shaugh. 

brary and resource material devel­opment and other projects. The program, which is under the direc­tion of Dr. Donald J. Wehmeyer, received the award from the US Office of Education. The same gov­ernment agency gifted the Notre Dame Memorial Library with $5,000 for use in a library resources pro­gram. 
Four departments in the College of Science received funds from the National Science Foundation to pur­chase equipment for use during sum­mer teacher institute programs. The chemistry department was granted $8,700 and the department of civil engineering received $9,200 during the month of April. Equipment grants of $10,000 and $12,500 were awarded in May to the departments of physics and biology, respectively. 
The department of civil engineer­ing, which has been conducting an environmental health and engineer­ing program, received word in April that the US Public Health Service had renewed its grant for sponsor­ship of the project. The one-year renewal made available an additional $37,994 for use in the study of air and water pollution. Dr. Robert Gordon, of the biology department, received a $16,526 equipment grant from the Atomic Energy Commis­sion for use in the teaching of nu­clear technology. 
A one-year grant from the Office of Education for $132,558 made pos­sible the Notre Dame Overseas Sum­mer Institute for US French teachers conducted in Angers, France under the direction of Dr. Charles Pamell. The Institute on Counseling and Guidance, led by Dr. Nathaniel Pal-lone, received $44,790 from the Of­fice of Education to sponsor a train­ing institute on campus this summer. 
The University conducted an ex­tensive educational program this summer under the auspices of Up-­ward Bound, a project designed to increase underprivileged students' appreciation of higher education. The work of the project will con­tinue during the academic year un­der the directorship of Dr. Richeird 
J. Thompson, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. The local antipoverty program operates under a $72,490 grant from the Of-. fice of Economic Opportunity. 
The National Science Foundation also awarded to the University its annual Institutional Grant for Sci­ence. The award, which this year totaled $77,860, is based on the amount of grants the NSF has made to the University during a one-year period. • • •' 
THE YELLOW SHEET 
The folloioing telegram received in the Alumni Office in late August is typ­ical of numerous queries the University has received lately via letters and tele­phone calls: 
To THE EDITOR: 
Have just seen Yelloiv Sheet from Oklahoma City regarding Notre Dame sent to Notre Dame parents. Obviously scandalous but what can he done about this? Will appreciate your advising me by mail. 
C. E. E. Cincinnati, Ohio 

(See also page S) 
Many Alumni and parents of Notre Dame students have received one or both issues of this four-page mimeo­graphed sheet whose apparent intent is to enlist support for their cause through smear attacks on campus re­ligious personalities. The first issue of The Yellow Sheet on Notre Dame ap­peared in May although copies of the same edition are still being received by persons throughout the country. In Au­gust tlie second siich bulletin was pub­lished. 


query 
It appears, hoivever, that the author(s) of The Yellow Sheet has more than just a Notre Dame edition. Recently, the same source leveled an attack on the Ft. Wayne-South Bend Diocese. The diocese, in an editorial entitled "The Sickness that is Hate," Our Sunday Visitor, August 31, had this in part to say: 
"The Yelloio Sheet is aptly named. "Some might think it better just to ignore it but the plain truth is that the one thing sucli anonymous, hate-mongering sheets can't stand is the light. They flourish in the damp dark­ness, brought out into the open they shrivel. 
"In case you ai-e unfamiliar with The Yellow Sheet, it is a mimeographed four-page publication, published anon­ymously, distributed suweptitiously, filled with attacks on leaders of the Church. 
"What do you do if yon get a copy of The Yellow Sheets Treat it as you would any other piece of anonymous mail. People who are afi-aid to show themselves publicly, who use anonym­ity as a shield for vicious attaclvS need your prayers but do not deserve your respect or your attention." 
The Yellow Sheet is the type of re­action one can expect in time of change and controversy. Unfortunately, its anonymity and fanaticism make the authors of this material extremely doubtftd targets of rational debate. And to that extent, it is the type'of thing that is disturbi7ig to Alumni, parents and" the . University. 
• Tlie University will be the first to 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 

ALUMNI ASK 
admit there is abvays room for debate and disciission—this very column a prime example. But The Yellow Sheet can hardly be considered to be proper or effective. 
It is a medium that's irresponsibleand misinformed, if not outright libel­ous. As a result, the University is mak­ing an effort in conjunction with postalauthorities and various police agencies to determine the origin. It is the Uni­versity's hope that once this source is determined steps can be taken to pre­vent this embarrassing and emotional attack on Alumni attd friends of Notre Dame.—^ALUMNUS EDITOR. 
CLASS NOTES 
Our first query, presented in the July-August issue of the ALUJINUS, came from Gerard J. Hekker 'iS who pro­posed that the class notes section of the magazine "be drastically cut, if not eliminated entirely." Following is a sampling of the responses received in the Alumni Office. 
To THE EDITOR: 
Congratulations to Gerard Hekker '48 for a good idea to improve the magazine. The objective sei-ved by the class notes should be better sei-ved by a mimeo sheet sent along with the magazine—or simply separately. 
ALBERT J. STARSHAK S J '55 
Chicago, 111. 
To THE EDITOR: 
As a recently retired editor of the Dome, I could not pass up the oppor­tunity to comment on the future of the class notes. Three years ago the Dome faced a similar decision, whether to keep the underclass pictures. The choice was really between using a large part of our time, space and budget in pi-o­ducing a section which would appeal to only small groups or adopting a new format which would free this space for other uses. We took the latter coui-se and, never regretted this decision. 
One problem which the class notes can never overcome is limited appeal. I think the space could be put to better use in printing features by Alumni, faculty and even undergi-aduates. News articles alone cannot keep the Alumni in touch with the changes at Notre Dame, but provocative and informative essays could bring Notre Dame closer to the old grads. The space could also be used as a forum for Alumni in cer­tain areas such as education, law and banking, with faculty members used as modei-ators. The Notre Dame ALUJINUS can sei-ve a more useful function than a gossip column. Cast my vote with Mr. Hekker. 
J. B. STARSHAK '66 
Chicago, III, 
To THE EDITOR: 
After i-eading Mr. Hekker's letter in the July-August issue of the ALUJINUS I feel compelled to express my opinion of the class notes section. 
As a recent graduate, I am "well" aware of our University's changing image and share a deep interest in what . is presently happening at Notre Dame. 

However, I also believe that the men whom I met at Notre Dame were some of the finest acquaintances I have ever met and will ever meet. Because of this, I am genuinely interested in their future successes. The class notes col­umn is one of the very few ways in which this infoiination is available to the Alumni. 
I can see no reason why both Univer­sity news and class notes cannot and should not be allowed to share the pages of the Notre Dame ALUJINUS. 
WiLLiAJi J. O'CONNOR '64 North Tonawanda, N.Y. 

To THE EDITOR: 
I am highly in favor of retaining the class notes. News of my classmates means quite a bit to me. The ALUSINUS is not a journalistic piece of art, but rather a functional relation of news of the school we love, and those with whom we spent our pleasant years there. 
PAUL W. IUY '65 Arlington, Va. 

To TUB EDITOR: 
I favor retention of the class notes section in its present foi-m. I would have little interest in the publication if it were not for this section. 
I might ask Mr. Hekker: "What is wrong with beer and brawls evei-y five or more yeai's, after a consistent diet of interaational and national views of Netvsiveek, Life, Time and others in the interim?" At best, the footpath bet\veen the distant past and the pres­ent is shadowy, rock-stre\vn and some­times nonexistent. The class notes, in­complete as they are, cast a faint ray of light on an almost forgotten past. 
A subscriber for over 41 years. JOHN F . KILKENNY LL B '25 US District Judge Portland, Ore. 
response 
To THE EDITOR: 
As to the new section called "Alumni Ask" I, for one, am in complete dis­agreement with Mr. Hekker's proposal that we eliminate the class notes sec­tion of the ALUMNUS. Since 1940 this has been the first section that I have read. 
GER,\LD F . SAEGERT '40 Jamaica Estates, N.Y. 

To THE EDITOR: 
Please get the Class of '48 to call a special election and elect that cultui-e­bug from Hempstead, L.I., Class secre­tary. I think that might take care of his objection to including class notes. I am not the most f rateraal or gung-ho person in the world, but I turn first to my Class and Club—then I read the features he likes and which you, hap­pily, include. To eliminate class notes would be to eliminate an alumni pub-, 
•lication's raison d'etre. 
DENNIS J. O'NEILL '26 Lakewood, Ohio 
To THE EDITOR: 

Please register my strong vote for 
the retention of the class notes. There 
would be much more lost than gained 
by the removal of the same from the 
ALUMNUS in my judgment, whatever 
that is. 

JOHN C. O'CONNOR '38 
Indianapolis, Ind. 
To THE EDITOR: 

Perhaps the last vestige of commu­
nication we currently hold with our 
Alma Mater are the class notes you 
publish every two months in the 
ALUJINUS. 

Ai-e we now to say, "Et tu, Jim"t 
Maybe people like Jerry Hekker 
might advocate another supplementary 
magazine to furnish him with the "in" 
news, he so voraciously yearns for. 

Whatever you do, please don't clas­
sify me as a conservative in this case 
(one wanting to hold back progress) 
as I feel we are dealing with humans 
—^not things; and it is in the news 
about these humans that we feel the 
changes of life about us. 

JOSEPH MCNALLY '37 
Centerport, N.Y. 
To THE EDITOR: 

Four months ago I sat down and wrote a lengthy letter to the Class Sec­retai-y for my husband, Joe Jansen. The letter included not only news of our family but news of many other mem­bers of the Class living in the Chicago area. 
When information from the letter did not appear in the next ALUMNUS I as­sumed that the letter had not been received in time. The most recent issue arrived today and we were disappointed to find that there was no column for the Class. 
It is difficult enough to get members of the classes to keep in touch. If for some reason the secretaiy is not able to handle the coi-respondence from his classmates I suggest someone else be appointed. 
Joe and I look forward to each issue of the ALUJINUS. One of the "hi-lites" is the Class report. We hope something can be done to improve the quality of reporting for the Class. . 
MRS. JOSEPH F . JANSEN Westem Springs, 111. 
To THE EDITOR: 

Speaking for myself, I had a large number of fiiends at Notre Dame, friends that I am interested in, and friends I am able to keep track of through the class notes section of the ALUJINUS. He (Jerry Hekker) is cor­rect in his assumption that many look at this section, and indeed, probably first; but we also read the rest of the publication. And, I am sure you will receive other letters from other Alumr ni who will prove this fact. How else would we know of Mr. Hekker's recent contribution to "Alumni Ask." As for his comment on the type of news con­tained in the class notes section, speak­ing for the Class of '63, I saw no men­tion of golf or who met whom. 
. WiLUs P. FEY '63 Dixon, 111. _ 
Medical School Hopes Dip 
Notre Dame's hopes to locate a state-owned med­ical school adjacent to the University's campus en­countered a severe setback in August when the Indiana legislative committee to study medical education in the state favored a Muncie location. The committee's recommendation, however, is not binding on the 1967 Indiana General Assembly whose final vote will determine the site of the facility. As a result, efforts to locate the medical school at Notre Dame are con­tinuing. Most recently, an invitation was extended to prospective members of the General Assembly to spend a November weekend in the South Bend area to acquaint them with Northern Indiana medical center needs. The invitation was issued by five com­munity organizations in South Bend, Mishawaka and Elkhart in coordination with the Committee on Higher Education in Northern Indiana. 
Summer Commencement 
The traditional peace of the Grotto was temporarily suspended August 5 when it became the site of the summer commencement activities. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president of the University, conferred degrees upon the 19 doctoral candidates, the nearly 400 master's recipients and the 50 bachelor's degree candidates. The graduates of the University's 49th summer session heard commencement speaker. Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, vice-president for academic af­fairs, call for an increase in the "revolution in educa­tion." At the concdebrated Mass held in Sacred Heart Church that morning Rev. Joseph W. Hoffman CSC, University chaplain, delivered the baccalaureate ser­mon on Catholic higher education. 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's Theater Concentration 
Soon to be announced is the merger of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's theatrical groups. Starting this fall both schools' theatrical presentations and drama courses will come under the direction of Notre Dame's department of communication arts with overall supervision being given to Thomas J. Stritch, depart­ment head. Among the five major productions to be alternately presented between the two campuses this school year are Graham Greene's "The Potting Shed"; Shakespeare's "The Tempest"; the Irish comedy, "The Playboy of the Western World"; the fantasy-comedy, "The Madwoman of Chaillot"; and the musical "How to Succeed in Business Without Resdly Trying." 
Publish O'Hara Biography 
Notre Dame's University Press in August announced its list of new manuscripts. Foremost among the publications is the first definitive biography of the former president of the University, John C£u:dinal O'Hara. Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy CSC, professor of history and archivist, probes in depth the life of this outstanding American Churchman in Father O'Hara of Notre Dame: tlie Cardinal-ArcJibishop of Phila­delphia. Other fall titles include: Vatican II: An Interfaith Appraisal, the complete texts of addresses and formal discussions delivered at the Vatican H Symposium held at Notre Dame this spring; Catholic Schools in Action, a definitive study of the American Catholic school system conducted at Notre Dame and edited by Reginald A. Neuwien; Tlie Common Market's Labor Problems by Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald CSC; Land of Urban Promise by Julian E. Kulski; and Hie Irish and Irish Politicians by Edward M. Levine. 
Appoint New Hall Rectors 
Seven new rectors will be found in Notre Dame residence halls this fall according to Rev. Charles L McCarragher CSC, vice-president for student affairs. Rev. Thomas McDonagh CSC will become the first rector of the newly established Carroll Hall (formerly Dujarie Hall); Rev. James Gallagher CSC will preside in Badin; Rev. Henry Eichorn CSC becomes the rector of Breen-PhiUips; Rev. James Flanigan CSC h£is been assigned the rectorship of Dillon; Rev. David Burrell CSC wHl head Morrissey; Rev. James Riehle CSC will go to Sorin; and Rev. James Doig CSC will become rector of Zahm. The remaining ten halls have been granted stay-hall rectors who will serve in the SEUne assignments as last year. 
New Culinary Expertise 
A change in the directorship of the food services and dining halls at Notre Dame has been announced. After four years as chief gastronome at the University, Gilbert P. Volmi has resigned to accept a simileu: position at the University of Delaware. His sucessor is Bernard F. Mehall who has been assistant director and manager of North Dining Hall since 1962. Maiu-ice E. McNabb has been named manager of the North Dining Hall to succeed Mehall. 
A Taste of College 
A foretaste of the academic life was given to 50 
college-bound students this summer through their 
participation in the University's precollege skills program. For the llth consecutive summer the project offered area high school graduates the op­portunity both to improve their verbal skills and to familiarize themselves with the differences between high school and college levels of study. Courses in writing, study, reading and reading comprehension were conducted by three University faculty members. Dr. Richard Willemin, director of Notre Dame's devel­opmental reading program, headed the five-week pro­gram and taught eflBcient reading methods. Dr. Edward J. Cronin, associate professor in the General Progrsun, taught the students writing improvement and Richard Stevens, associate professor of develop­mental reading, instructed them in study and com­prehension. 
PROGRESS REPORT #1 : Since the beginning of construcfi'. July 15, excavation has been entirely completed and o 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1964 OaOBER 



TOPSIDE BRIEFS^ 
Cost of Education 
Alumni have a tendency to think of Notre Dame costs rising sharply and uniquely. Costs have gone up, but we remain in reasonable perspective. Some comparative figures, taken from an August report based on reliable sources, support this. 
NOTRE DAME (TOTAL FOUR YEARS) $11,800 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 12,096 HOLY CROSS (MASS.) 12,180 VANDERBILT 12,512 GEORGETOWN 12,520 STANFORD 12,948 NORTHWESTERN 13,380 DARTMOUTH 13,500 BROWN 13,880 YALE 14,000 PRINCETON 14,080 M.I.T. 14,120 CHICAGO 14,240 

All figures are based on tuition, fees, room, board, and a $500 plus for travel, books, allowance, etc. Obviously, there is flexibiUty but these are figures based realistically on today's costs (1965-66). 

Honors for Medievalist 
The director of Notre Dame's Mediaeval Institute, Canon A. I. Gabriel O. Praem, this summer received more accolades from his colleagues when his most recent book, Auctarium of tlie Cliartulary of the Uni­versity of Paris, Vol. 6, was awarded the coveted Dourlans Prize of the French Academie des Inscrip­tions et BeUes-Lettres. A study of the medieval Uni­versity of Paris, the foUo examines the intellectual history at this international center of learning of 15th­century Christendom. The Dourlans Prize, bestowed upon the outstanding publication in the fields of history, archeology and philology, is awarded by secret vote of the members of the Academie. Prof. Gabriel was also honored recently by the Medieval Academy of America when it elected him one of only 50 Fellows in the United States. 
half of the footings have been laid for the Athletic and Convocation Center. Target date—December, 1967. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 oaOBER 


Gangland Picnic 
The Blackstone Rangers, one of Chicago's toughest gangs, "invaded" Notre Dame's stadium one August afternoon. They came for a day of sports, picnicking and outdoor fun. A sudden cancellation had left the Rangers without a place to celebrate "Bud Billiken Day," a traditional fun day for Chicago's Negro youths. Fearing that a gang war might break out if the group were left with nothing to do on their holi­day, social workers contacted University oflJcials and arranged for the group to visit ND. The result—a peaceful day on campus for the Rangers and their auxiliary. 


Athletics Go Academic 

A valuable link between academics and athletics is being forged at Notre Dame with the formation of a Sports and Games Library. The collection, to be a permanent division of the Memorial Library, will contain printed material related to the very nature of all games and sports, and to the individuals who have figured largely in them. At present, a committee under the chairmanship of Frank Wallace '23 is seek­ing donations of material from Alumni and friends of the University. Welcomed wiU be any books or other printed matter whose subject is the world of sports and games—^from football to chess. Also sought are personal items and artifacts which have played a role in sports history. They will be retained in a permanent display area in the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. The Notre Dame-Army FootbaU Game (Oct. 8) will occasion the launching of the acquisition campaign. At that time the Monogram Club will receive donations in the Fieldhouse from 11 a.m. to one half hour before kick-off. For further information concerning the collection. Alumni may contact Rev. James W. Simonson CSC, director of the Memorial Library. 

Summer Sabbaticals 
International meetings and foreign lecture tours have called a number of Notre Dame faculty members 
overseas during August and September. Dr. Morris Pollard, head of the department of microbiology, journeyed to England and France where he spoke at several cancer research institutes and conferred with leading cancer and radium researchers. A September research and lecture tour took Dr. Basil Myers, head of the electrical engineering department, to England, Turkey and Italy. It was a trip to Japan and a stop in Kyoto for Lobund Laboratory research scientists, Masahiro Kajima, who addressed the Sixth Interna­tional Congress of Electron Microscopy. In the same country at the present time is Dr. MUton Burton, director of the radiation laboratory who is chairman­ing a session at the International Symposium on Macromolecidar Chemistry in Tokyo and Kyoto before touring industrial, governmental and university radia­tion chemistry laboratories. Professor George C. Kuczynski, department of metallurgy and materiads science, spent six weeks lecturing and touring in Eygpt, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Israel, Austria and France. And finally, though staying within the US borders, Dr. Edward Fischer, professor of communica­tion arts, delivered a series of film appreciation lectures at the University of HawEui. 
At times allojving oneself to vomit is a healthy reaction. Unfortunately, because of my surroundings I could not permit my nausea to reach a climax yes­terday when I read a communication addressed to me as a father of a Notre Dame student. The letter came to me postmarked 

amentia 
Providence, Rhode Island, with an Oklahoma City post office box on the letter­head. Typically, it was anonymous and, appropriate­ly, it was called the Yellow Sheet. This sheet, desig­nated the University of Notre Dame edition (of the Yellow Slieet), starts with a disclaimer that "No stu­dent is involved in the edition or pubUcation of this paper although a very fast-growing number are very generously contributing documentation for state­ments made." Then follows a vicious attack on mem­bers of the faculty—all clergy—^with accusations ranging from filthy imputations of immorality to stupid denunciations of individuals for taking part in the new living liturgy of the Church] 
To be dirty-minded is bad enough. To be utterly stupid in addition is to be twice cursed. The dirt needs no repetition here. To show the level of intelli­gence of the authors they, in what I assume is an attempt at castigation, say about one priest, "He has said a folk Mass, he is going to take out the Com­munion rail and already has moved the Blessed Sacra­ment to a side altar. We can't help but be a bit shocked." 


EDITORIAL COMMENT 
I have difficulty in believing anything really bad about the present generation of students at Notre Dame. Therefore, it is hard for me to believe that students would participate in any way in making the Yellow Slieet possible. If they have, I can only say they are beneath contempt. No student old enough to enter Notre Dame, no,student intelligent enough to pass the entrance requirements at Notre Dame can, at the same time, be excused for participating in this venture on the basis of immaturity. 
As for the nonstudent perpetrators of this shame, I can only hope they have never had contact with the University. They say, "These are samples of statements and activities of a few of the numerous and frantic extremists on this once beloved campus." I suggest that the authors, if they must be gross, in­deUcate 2md dirty-minded, confine their remarks to something other than my still beloved Notre Dame. 
In past letters I have asked—now I plead—that all Alumni try to become more familiar vnth hap­penings on the campus. Because Notre Dame is out­standing it is probable that other publicity-loving groups will try to take advantage of her fame. As .1 have said before, there are disadvantages to being a beacon. The beacon-serves as a guide in the dark­ness; but a beacon, because of its very brightness, also attracts bugs. It is the responsibility of every Alumnus to know enough about the activities of the University to be able to judge' between extremist reactions as exemplified by the Yellow Sheet and constructive criticism from those interested in the progress of Notre Dame. 
Tliomas P. Carney '37 President, Alumni Association 
AlUMNUS SEPTEMBER }966 OaOBER 

Continuing Education—Lesson One: Babel! Semantics, it seems to me, have aggravated most of the major problems our world is faced with. There 
are hundreds of examples, but the basic principle seems to be 
fall 

the acquisition of a new jargon for new movements, or the mis­of use of old terms in new con­cepts, or deceptive new terms for old concepts. The result— in a world in which the explo­

Babel 

sion of ideas has jarred reli­gion, education, science, politics and almost all human relationships—^is an urgent need for proper inter­pretation. 
Alumni—^you who have had educational advan­tages to prepare you for personal understanding and social contribution—must be the logical hope for such interpretation. Extremists in aU walks of life can be reasonably expected to make deliberate use of seman­tic distortion to achieve their goals. But between the extremists there lies the great majority of interested people who are currently fluctuating in their under­standing of the great issues of the day which too often appear in seemingly contradictory versions espoused by the individuals or the media airing them. 
So the first, and possibly the greatest, contribu­tion toward the continuing education of mankind seems now to be an objective source of expression which wiU translate the truths and the objectives and the potentials of ideas from the channels of selfish interest into the common denominator of accurate understanding. It is only through the predominance of this accurate understanding that truly constructive decisions and lasting progress can be achieved. This is the opportunity and the obligation of alumni. 
In the case of Notre Dame Alumni, the examples are many. Start with changes in the University. Hopes and fears for the future of Notre Dame are almost as many as the rumors that feed both. Your challenge is to form your judgment on facts (which means perhaps the withholding of judgment until you have the facts), and the apostolate of sharing facts and sound judgment with others. This wUl insure the continuing unity that has made Notre Dame great. 
Extenuation of this procedure into other areas is obvious. Changes in education—turmoil in race rela­tions—economic and social changes—changes in the Church—threats to community moral standards—are only some of the familiar problems that are receiving more emotional expression than objective intellectual study. Their understanding and interpretation wiU determine the extent of the sacrifice necessary to their best realization. 
This is the object of Continuing Education: Lesson One. Be a constructive factor in your world. Through all the channels available to you, but particularly the educated mind you are privileged to possess, translate these problems into the fundamental truths and the unchanging principles that are essential to their sound solution. 
This will be a major contribution and a rewarding justification of the educational opportunity created for you—an opportunity which this month Notre Dame opens again to offer to some seven thousand of your successors. 
James E. Armstrong '25 
Just about everyone agrees that life is not as 
simple as it used to be. It is not so easy to apply 
labels—to compartmentalize life into neat packages. 
Addressing Notre Dame's summer commencement 
exercises. Rev. John 
E. Walsh CSC noted how so many of our 


revolution 
activities in today's 
•^ _ increasingly com-I f I plex world have be­come "inter" in 

.^^ ^tMm m ^^ ^^^S .^^ mtm. Character. Business, 
SQUCdtlOn to cite one area of 
life, is international in scope as never before. The Second Vatican Council has generated much ecumenical or interfaith activity. Research has become increasingly interdisciplinary in character. And, with the prospect of Izmding as­tronauts on the moon, man's activity will become interplanetary. Father Walsh identifies this new force in modem society as the "inter" syndrome. 
Notre Dame's academic vice-president insisted that the education of the future and for the future simply cannot be the same kind of education that took place before such major movements as the "inter" syndrome came so sharply into focus. In his view, education "right at this very moment" is at a crossroads—at a time and place "for rethinking our educational ideas and processes." 
Educational television, language laboratories, teaching machines and computers are foreign to the experience of most college alumni, but Father Wjilsh predicted wider use of these emd other "educational technologies" in the education of the future. Believ­ing "there is still too much of a tendency to identify education with formal schooling" he called for greater provision in the future for "independent study" smd the use of libraries, musexims, resezuxh institutes, continuing education centers and other facilities aside from the conventional classroom. 
Despite the revolution in communications, there is no such thing as mass education, Father Walsh asserted. Education, he insisted, "is a highly personal and individualized process .. . always and everywhere it is the individual who can be educated." 
Notre Dame's summer graduates, most of than teachers armed with their doctoral and master's de­grees, would do well to contemplate the message of their commencement speaker. For in educating the young people entrusted to them they must prepare them for the complex world of the "inter" syndrome and not the relatively simple world of yesteryear with its neat packages and convenient labels. 
James E. Murphy '^^ 

I. . 
. 
 ('ij» V<-jr M HlRh lfh-'>-« A:!«-r,<!<-0 !>1 <h:Hi;r;: I'Mt. l''.-i. r<if. !•>«». ri',i. \n -.f. iviML v,h.  I'CM I''^! i''M I'*'.l !••'.< 
\!; s:. (..u.'ii.li. vh.»>U  IVijrm •t.'h'-iS. J1 ihat \tni it«»vi. Iw.k! 
< liir (^f r:>i»fr i:i C^a'h*.>lji K.-.I. 
BA PhD IJDS 
- All i«> pfsvjl'- »<-hi.«-'« 
 IIS !_»» t )thrr Oiir or tf.t'f \n pnvjir »«hj>-.;i 
MA '~-!:<ii) 
Other 
MS MD !5 -- (i4!h>'iii -WK-r-rn » lollrcc vi.ur |irr«-ni MJXC ni h!»­
— •CathnltC Ilirri"* ft>l!ri?r Sineir Wtdnvird 
Non-C«ih0li<- woinrjj'* tt.A\re_r
,\«nv niafri'-<) ' !«! .\fjrna?r SrpArjtrd 
—Non-Catholii' nirtl't rollrifr —NoVk in^turtl jj'rr wicixwrd ~ Dnorrrd 
Ctathi'hf <<>«-du<-Jli.-nal it.Urtrr or ui n 
N'lw :r.jrt!'-<i jftT d:v"ri r —Other 
-——Non-C'j!!>o!ti privjf- «'t»edtt< aiL.ital „,, univrr«tv „—~-Xon-(.with«>hi- ptihhi r<>«-<i««-jti..njl c ' 
\Vh<-n v<>u Vkcrc a; .\<itrr l)j;i;r wha! i;r.idr« did vi>u rr­univrriilv <
(ri\r* Chrfk ihr o::r thJt 5x-t! drx r;lwt vour avrraijr. ~—Other 
-A» A'» , ,D-. 
t

-B'« A'J i I)-. 
16, 

Wrrr vou utllfird with rcliijiouj li/r a! ,', In what txfiipjl:^;! havr ><^u »},H-nt ihr moii tme? Vrt -No * , Arijird Srrvii c Sjlr* 
Were you utitfied with y.nir rrlii;iiiu •• Manatcrtnrnt - __^>;),<-r .Notre Dame? 
Prt./r»ji«-in;i! tphyjici.!!!, 

Ye* No Iav»ycr, profciJ<»r. rtc. >

amiiiiii 
you feci that j-our rrIi«;ion irainintr ai How much did vou inaKc last ml out of the clatwooin. wa* adei'.u.i 
-Undrr SlO.lx'M^) 

h li e f^iC^hirh the an»wer i» yei! 
-$10.00iJ.SH.W9 

inCs §-—•• Race Rclationi 5I5.fK)0. SI9.09? 
Inadequate $20,(K(0 - 525.00(1 

Polilio 
-$25,000 I'lui 

How many ^utomuhilrt do vi«i luvr? 19. What iisucs under di»cu«ion at the Vx\^,i ——None Two da )x>u feel to l>e the mo»t important (Cthe -—-Greater autom>my for bi»hop» i
——One 'Hirec 
• PrrK-rvation of traditional liturj Do >-ou live in 
-Redefinition of the role A hou»c • .-\ri .Xpartnient t-crnacular Kn «< 
If a hoo»c: if your huu>r were vild tfjd ccamination Q^^^^^^^n the \'i:.--i 
, rcAiotiabli papal infajl I 
l^jaraied brethren lavvt i;ovenjinij ( cowpromuet are ii,^. 
iKiont. ^^"^^ 

'$i8,0(xr': 

-Rcdcfinitbn of Church'j stand on \ni\h -Other: If an apartment, what }» vour tnonthlv rent? 
-5 50 . S 80 $230 - $280 
20. If you arc a Catholic, how scriouUv c
^80-$110 S280-S330 
leaching or recommcrtdaiiotu .of the Chi. 
SII0-$HO ~»-5530.$380 the foUowng? «
n-50. Si 7(1 -$380-S^00 
>I70-S2(W S400-r 5200-5230 
Rrvardlew of •):tmrdiate iuuei, how would you' idcniify c o yourjelf? 
-C^.nw-rv-ative Repuhlican Lthcml Dctnocral ——.Moderate Republifan lndcpcr>dcni —-l.il)eral Republiran Socialist 51 
Conwrd-aiive Democrat World Fedcraliii Racial inie^ralion ——Minlcraie Dcm«rai Other 
Lesion of Decency-How many children do you have living? motion picture rating .None Three -Six 
Fasting and One Four -S<r\*cn abstinence bws •— Two Five -Eifht • Sending children to 
Grade whtKitt attended by children? 
Catholic gnunmar or .Ml in public schools High Khook -One or more in public schools 
:ii^.'j>'s.z-j. y; ••r :,:W,.H^^&.'.'[ !* Ill impjuifciw 
!"•! !hj! ('alhoiut h.^^f j >l;.>-.«-!:n-r.I» <«>r 
32 r><i vou pfftoaxHr believe t lijtJh iim!?"*! Ate inlrir.wfalh 
tfj«-<hjn!(al itonttAiejitijJ 
Alx^riHm imiuiixrtj 
23. Are loll hapjji^ 
t:a»e %tHj lr( Ve, 
."•Voire Djinr, f..r (C:h«k 
<» \<nt fonirihutr i«» lUf Al Yearly 
b> Oi'faMorjaUy V • Never -—" 
aniri <w > <'U 

tee Notre Danv ic endr^vurt 'ant lo oiiiain (ooibjll .ike lt> iiivr ft>r 14H rea I Ijke (o iti^e et ljr.%-A! Alutnnut 
Are \«m laluiieci with the tAitted At Notre Dame* Y« 
\Vj» it Strict ?-M. 
30 Do •vxm think it jljould be 
a) Liberal—— b) Si 
31 When yOM were u» Kh»o| * Syttero 
32- WiHild yoti twtw lie in Javw yc*...— No—-• 
3J. VK, yc«» think an H<>«»i*r S> 

Is n 
Ye»-.— No 
34. WhAt wxt the nwMi itapor did for yt»u? A? Made tne reali.-e the i 
Churrh—• 
b)
 Helped me l<> Ije prefjj c 5. TauKht «ue the value o 

d)
 Tauifht me the value • ahrjd,'—~-~ I 


c) Tautfhi me the itrfat \ ^M^agJigK5WJi*M^!>j^^*MHul^M•ae3^tailAl^<MmJe^«i^Ja&^^!fa 
By ROBERT L HASSENGER '5 9 
Alumni returning to this year's reunion 
were asked in a survey for their comments 
on personal, Church and University matters. 
Their opinions — remaining anonymous — revealed 
a solid Alumni endorsement 

of Notre Dame's academic pursuits 
but less enthusiasm for the present direction 
of University disciplinary and 

religious training. Follov/ing are the results 
of the first Alumni reunion survey — hopefully, 
still another medium for greater 
university-alumni dialogue. 

T
HERE are a number of obvious dangers in making too much of the responses of only a relatively small sample of Notre Dame men. It may well be that those who return for reunions are a particular breed of cat; further, the roughly aO percent of the 1966 re­turnees who filled out questionnaires may themselves be less than typical. What internal evidence we have (distribution of income, number of children, degrees earned and political affiliations) appears to indicate a fairly representative group, however, and this brief summary will proceed as if a larger sample would show comparable results. The one exception is the Class of '46 from which only a handful of responses are available. But this Class was an atypical one in Notre Dame history, comprised as it was of those who found themselves here for one reason or another during the War years of 1943-46. This group will be overlooked, for the most part, in this commentary. Salary and Polifics. Perhaps the best way to begin is to sketch a brief profile of the Notre Dame man as he emerges from the questionnaire returns. This should allow the reader to decide for himself how much credence to place in the sur\'ey results. Our respondents are doing extremely well in the job-income category; half of those graduating before the War make more than $20,000 today and even the most recent graduates attending the Reunion (Class of 1961) and nearly 25 percent of their numbers already making more than $10,000. 
The Class of '61 is slightly higher in identification as political "Independents" and a shade below older Alumni in preference for the Republican Party. There is a clear Republican identification in every Class but those of '21 and '26. About one-third of the Classes of '51, '56 and '61 are Democrats. Graduafe Degrees and Families. About one-fifth of the older Alumni and two-fifths of those graduating since the War went on for higher degrees — most commonly law. Roughly an eighth of the two most recent Classes have PhD's with an additional 20 
ssKffKR^nErasis 

lABLE 1 WAS RESPONDENT SATISFIED WITH THE RELIGIOUS LIFE AND RELIGIOUS PREPARATION? 
'56 

Class of '16 •21 '26 '31 '36 •41 •46 •51 '61 
Religious Life Yes 100% 100% 100% 97% No 3% 
Religious Preparation Yes 100% 100% 96% 94% No 4% 6% 
percent of the '61 Alums holding master's; it is likely that at least half of these will eventually attain the doctorate which typically takes six to ten years after the BA, according to the most recent studies. It is probably a fair inference to suggest that the more recent graduates—especially those since the mid-fifties — started at a higher level than the older Alumni (some of whom were undoubtedly their fathers), but are also faced with the necessity of undergoing more highly specialized training in gradu­ate or professional sdiool. They are making much more than their fathers or pre-War graduates did at the same age but are finding it more expensive to live.! (Some wiU find a fairly accurate picture of themselves in "The New Class," Commentary, August, 1966.) 
The men of '31, '41 and '51 averaged just under four children each; Alumni from '21, '26, '36 and '56 a shade under three; and the most recent grads ('61) about one and a half. (It is hereby acknowl­edged that wives played some part in the above statistics.) Births have been down nationally for the past few years and it may be that the younger grads' families will level off at about two compared to the three or four of the veteran Alumni. It wUI be interesting to see. 
Evaluation of Notre Dame. In the little space available for this summary it seems advisable to concentrate on the items concerned with evaluations of Notre Dame. One cannot help but be impressed with the overwhelming evidence of loyalty to their Alma Mater by the Alumni. More than nine out of ten are sat­isfied with Notre Dame's progress since their grad­uation and with its acc.demic standing and present athletic image. One hears a great deal about pur­ported Alumni discontent with regard to the latter, but the available data does not support this allegation. One respondent (Class of '56) summed it up this way: "At Notre Dame I gained a real confidence in order to face all the problems that are confronting me now as a man, husband and father. I have never been ashamed of the fact that I am a graduate of Notre Dame and I wish that my sons will have the opportunity to attend this great university." 
While not all respondents were this expansive their 
IMULI RESPONDENT'S EVALUATION OF 
Class  of  '16  '21  '26  •31  
Safisfied with fheir own  training:  
Yes  100 %  100%  100%  97%  
No  —.  —  3 %  
Felt own  troining was:  
Strict  80 %  75%  67 Vo  50 %  
Moderate  20 %  25 %  29 %  A7%  
Liberal  —  4 %  3 %  

Think it should be more: Strict 50% 82% 73% 76% Liberal 50°/o 18% 27% 24% 87% 96% 100% 87% 91% 93% 13% 4% 13% 9% 7% 
100% 81% 78% 74% 19% 13% 19% 22% 26% 
81% 87% 

loyalty is refiected in a very tangible way: over three-fourths contribute yearly to the Alumni Fund and their stated primary reason for this is to foster academic success, not to obtain football tickets. 
Among the areas needing closer and more complete study are the religious life and discipline at Notre Dame. WhDe about nine out of ten were satisfied with the religious life in college, only about three-fourths felt their religious preparation was adequate. One member of the Class of '41 put it this way: 
"Emphasis on religion at ND was solely con­formance to objective conduct—clipboard check on Mass attendance, etc. This badly damaged my understanding of what religion was." 
In the words of a more recent grad ('56): "I felt the religion courses were poor. I would like to see greater emphasis placed on the role of the laity in our Church." 
Voice of Younger Alumni. Most critical of aU the groups were the '61 graduates. Perhaps these are the rebellious young turks. Memy of the older grads ap­parently think so. Any number of the latter lamented the "giving of too much freedom" to students on campus and expressed their hope that the University "would not become liberal to the degree that we are seeing on other campuses today." StiU others from earlier classes mentioned the military academies as closer to their ideas of what Notre Dame ought to resemble than Harvard or Princeton. There were those among the older grads who felt too much emphasis was currently being placed on academic excellence with insuflBcient attention given to char­
acter formation. An Alumnus attending his 15th Reunion remarked: 
"Excellence is fine, but not to the exclusion of humanity. The men of my Class perhaps would not be Alumni of '66, but they are good, successful men who have more humanity than today's standards and are probably much better profes­sionally." 
Younger Alumni and contemporary undergraduates would almost certainly take exception; the Class of '61 was much higher than any other group in their desire to see discipline liberalized—^70 percent com-
DISCIPLINE AT NOTRE DAME 
•36 •41 '46 '51 '56 •61 
95% 92% 67% 91% 84% 80% 5% 8% 33% 9% 16% 20% 
77% 63% 

40% 52% 57 Vo 69% 23% 37% 
60% 45% 41% 31% 
— .... 3% 2% 
53% 

72% 67% 75% 52% 30% A7% 28% 33% 25% 48% 70% 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 


implementation. Many seem to agree with a member 
of the Class of '51 who zisserted: "Catholics have no business as such in racial 

aluiniil profile 
pared to between one-third and one-heilf of zdl the other classes (Table 2). But this is not, they would insist, because they want to rEiise more heU on the campus but because they are acutely awau-e of the demands that will be placed on them after graduation. They would agree with the '41 Alum who stated: 
"ND restricted the individual too much. Coming 
from a strict family this restriction was readily 
conformed to while at ND. Upon graduation you 
felt that you were uneasy socially cind too sub­
missive in the business world." 

At the same time, however, responses to the query 
about "the most important thing ND did for you" show a clear choice of "taught me to think for myself" as highest (Table 3) and most obviously so for the Classes of '36, '41, '56 and '61. 
This independent thought is also reflected in response to the question, "Do you believe the following methods of birth control — anti-ovulant piUs, mechanical contraceptives and abortive inducives — to be intrinsically evil?" Answers indicate the ac­ceptance of anti-ovulants for family limitation by a wide margin in all but one class and particularly by more recent graduates. Whereas 75 percent of the Class of '16 consider the anti-ovulants morally un­acceptable, the percentage is down to 14 percent problems, demonstrations and the like. ... A man 
is entitled to an education and an opportunity to 
make a living. He is not entitled to social equality 

—this he must earn. Catholicism seems to have 
joined the Reformation." It may be that the younger men were put off by the 
word "lead" in the question. Perhaps they fed too young to direct such movements just yet Some Alumni will suggest, however, that this is precisely what Notre Dame should prepare men for—even at a 
comparatively young age. 
Such matters cannot be resolved here. Nor is there space to treat aU of the problems raised by respondents. (There is a real concern on the part of some that too much empheisis is presently being placed on research and less than previously, on teaching. Another dilemma is that of "specialization vs. liberal education." Perhaps these and other mat­ters, such as the honor system and coeducation at ND, can be addressed in subsequent issues of the ALtrMKns along with a more careful discussion of matters briefly considered here. More extensive surveys would enable analysts to "cross tabulate" responses—lor example, to determine what proportion of those in a certain category such as "Independents" or those who see ND as "too strict" think about a given matter 
-lAbLt J 

WHAT WAS THE MOST DAME DID FOR RESPONDENT? 
• IMPORTANT THING NOTRE 
Class of '16 '21 '26 •31 Taught importance of the Church 36% 32% 20% 23% Prepared for job 9% 21% 17% 12% Taught the value of thinking for oneself 16% 27% 19% Taught the value of hard work 9% 10% 12% 19% Taught the value of friendship 46% 21% 24% 27% 
among the Class of '51 and only two percent among the Class of '61. Other contraceptive devices are less acceptable although it seems important that there is less opposition to mechanical contraceptives among the more recent graduates (discounting the six mem­bers of the Class of '46). Almost a third of the '61 men are certain as to the morality of these devices. The opposition to abortifacients is much more certain. In all the classes upwards of 85 percent consider them "intrinsically evil" with the majority of the classes responding with over a 90 percent veto of abortive inducives. 
A Sociologist's View. To the sociologist who is himself a Notre Dame grad, the results of the query about leading civil rights efforts Eire somewhat disappointing. About two-thirds would actively promote equal job opportunities, but barely half would promote school desegregation and even fewer, open housing. 
Especially surprising is the low level of positive response from the Classes of '56 and '61 which one would think would be in the forefront of these efforts. In the matter of open housing ordinances 55 percent of the Class of '56 and 67 percent of the Class of '61 gave a negative response. As for the matter of school desegregation 51 percent and 59 percent of the Classes of '56 and '61 respectively felt there was no moral obligation binding them to lead movements for its 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 oaOBER 

'36 '41 '46 '51 '56 '61 
25% 18% 15% 24% 11% 
14% 12% 29% 24% 9% 11% 
33% 35% 29% 28% 36% 35% 
14% 12% 21% 15% 22% 
14% 23% 42% 12% 16% 22% 
such as religious preparation, coeducation or the honor system. We would then know who said wTmt, in ways other than Class yeaoc. The questionnaire on which the present capsule summary is based was put together hurriedly with little real thought as to what one might be able to make of the results. Nor was the return exactly spectacular: only about half of those attending the Reunion in June bothered to take the 10 minutes for completing and depositing the six pages. With better planning and organization in the future, a more satisfactory analysis will be possible. Incomplete as the above results are a promising and long-overdue start was made in 1966. Both the participants and the Alumni Office are to be con­gratulated for this. 
ABOUT THE AUTHOR: Dr. Robert Hassenger is a 1959 graduate of the University with an AB degree (cum laude) in philosophy. He earned his master's in psy­clwlogy from Marquette University and his PhD from the University of Chicago in sociology. Now an assistant professor of sociology at Notre Dame Tie has tauglht at Marquette, St. Xavier's and Mundelein colleges. He is the editor of and a contributor to The Shape of Catholic Higher Education, a careftiUy researched study into American Catholic colleges and universities. It vnll be released early next year by tlie University of Chicago Press. 


1st CALL 
9 10 11 

MARK YOUR CALENDARS NOW, Classes of M7, '22, 
•27, '32, "37, *42, '47, '52, "57 and '62 for the 1967 Reunion. Preparations already are being made by your Class officers and Reunion chairmen for this year's gala June weekend. Class rosters have been prepared and will be sent to members of all the reuniting classes to­gether with a preliminary agenda of the weekend bock 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Teddy Closlcy and A. DAVID KEST­NER '59. Miss Patrioa EHcen O'Day and JOHN W. CROWE '62. JCss Marcia Gumz and ROBERT H. DEVLIN JR. '65. Miss Susan O'Nen and KEVIN C. LYNCH •65. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Thelma Altagracia Castillo-Castan and JA]ilES STABILE '52, June 4. Miss Eileen Marie Clifford and KNUTE CAV­ANAUGH '59, Nc«- York City, June II. Miss Andrea Rozum and LEO CIESIELSKI '59, Beacon Falls, Conn., July 16. ifiss Maureen Martin and Dr. JOHN FOCHT­MAN '59, Oak Pari:, 111., Sept. 3. Miss Susan Margaret Lee and JOSEPH ROB­ERT GANNO.N '60, WeUeslcy, Mass., July I. Miss Karen Mary Mortimer and DAVID H. WILLIAMS '61, Chicago. Miss Jcannine de Montgolfier and DOMINIQUE TRONC '62, Paris, France, July 9. 
U 
Miss Biigid Frances JEROME DiDONN.A Aug. 27. 
Xnss Gail Elizabeth 
on campus. The time is now at hand to urge your class­mates to foin you in what is expected to be the largest doss turnout ever. This a first call for your Class Re­union. Don't wait until that last month's call to lay your plans for the biggest and best Reunion yet. Friday, Saturday and Sunday—June 9, 10 and 11 are the dates. Mark your calendar today! 
 Weiss and GEORGE  '63, Schenectady, N.Y., 
 Conti and JAMES W. 

ERASER '63, Ridgcwood, N.J., July 23. 
Miss Victoria Marie Pajakox^'ski and ROGER LY.\N McLAUGHLI.N '63, Notre Dame, July 9. Miss Mary Beth -Miller and LEONARD DOM­
INELLO '64, South Bend, July 9. Miss Anne Jones and DAVID HENRY GIB­BO.NS '64, Deal, .N.J., July 9. 
Miss Anne Marie Moty and ANDREW S. HARTNETT '64, Klamath Falls, Ore., June 27. Miss Patricia ,-\nn Engel and DONOVAN GEORGE KELLY '64, Glendive, Mont., June 25. .Miss BARBARA -McINTYRE J£A '64 and 
EUvard L. Neufer, South Bend, June 11. Miss Kathr^'n Ann Kncen and THOMAS OS­BORN '64, Aug. 6. Miss Judy Purvin and JOHN E. SCULLY JR. '64, Riverside, 111., June 11. 
Miss Elaine Kay Bradley and ROBERT E. SHERIDAN JR. '64, Missoula, Mont., Aug. 20. Miss Linda-Lee Jerz5-kowski and FRANK DIEGO VISCELGIA '64, Notre Dame, Jtdf 23. 
Miss Susan Pryor Arniel and PHILIP HARD­WICK HALEY '65, Eranston, III., Sept. 3. Miss Karen Ann Hohnes and JOSEPH XL Mc-BRIDE '65, Ocs Moines, loua, Aug. 27. 
Miss Catherine Ann Franklin and LOUIS ARTHUR DESENBERG '66, Buchanan, -Mich., July 9. 
Miss Paulette Emerinc and RAYMOND MYERS '66, Notre Dame, July 9. Miss Pamela Ann Lannan and MICH.^EL GERARD BURKE '68, South Bend, July 16. 

BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM TALBOT '44, a daughter, Deborah Malone, June 15. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT F. GREGORITS '49, a daughter, Jennifer, July 21. Mr. and Mis. ROBERT JACOB '53, a son, June 20­Mr. and Mra. DENNIS TROESTER '57, a son, Brian Francis, July 15. Mr. and MB . M . JAMES MURPHY '60, a ion, Daniel Kennedy, June 17. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM MACK '61, a son, Edwanl Chrisfopher, July 25. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 19M OaOBEK 


SYMPATHY 
ALFRED J. DIEBOLD JR. '27, on the death of hii father, Feb. 9. WALTER A. KOLBV '32, on the death of his wife, Aug. 4. 
J. STERLING MORTIMER '39, on the death of his father, July 4. WILLIAM E. COTTER JR. '41 on the death of his son, William E. Cotter III, Aug. 20. JOHN F. COAKER JR. '44, on the death of his father, July 28. JOHN J. '44 and GEORGE J. '53 WITOUS, on the death of their mother, Aug. 3. PATRICK D. BLACKFORD JR. '49, on the death of his father, July 1. ROBERT W. KNOERZER '49, on the death of his father in July. 
FRANK E. '57 and RALPH '59 ZIOLA, on the death of their father, July 26. 

DEATHS 
RAYMOND T. &nLLER '14, Cleveland Heights, July 13. He is survived by his widow, Ruth, four sons, Ray Jr. '51, Richard '54, Robert *57, Riley '59 and two daughters. 
Dr. FRANCIS J. VURPILLAT '20, South Bend, July 21. A South Bend physician he wns also active in ci\-ic work and scr\'cd on the city's avia­tion commission in 1935 and as medical advisor of the Education and Training Committee of the National Safety Council. He was a life member of the Elks and served as exalted ruler in 1936. He is survived by his widow, two sons and two daughters. 
HENRY W. ABTS '21, Los Angeles, May 20. He is survived by his A^-idow. 
HENRY J. LAUERXfAN LLB '23, ^ra^^ettc, Wis., July 22. He was secrctar>*-trcas*jrer of Lauerman Bros., president of Madagin and Lauer­man Real Estate and a director of the First Na­tional Bank. A member of the Chamber of Com­merce he served on the board of directors. Found­er and president of the Notre Dame Club of the Northlands, he also scrx'ed as secretary of the ND Club of the Hiawathaland. Surviving are his wd ­ow. a son, Henry* Jr. '58, and two daughters. 
JAMES F. LYONS '23. Rcnton, Wash., Nov. 7, 1964. He is srr\-ived by his widow and three sons. WILLIAM J. NOLAN '23, Philadelphia, Mar. 
24. He is survived by his widow. WILFRED a CULKIN '25, Carthage, Til., 
July 7. JOHN KOVACS '26. Chicago. JOHN B. LENIHAN LLB '26, Houston, July 
31. He is survived by his widow. JOHN E. LOFTUS '27, Shelbj^nTIe, Ind., Aug. 
9. An employee of the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. since 1953 he had ser^'cd as deputy prosecutor of Marion County, Ind. There are no immediate sun*ivors. 
ROBERT E. SHIELDS '27, Li%-ingston, N.J., July. He served as Clifton branch manager of the Pacific Finance Corp. for 19 years. While at ND he was a member of the varsity football squad. Surviving arc his ivtdow and a daughter. 
RUSSELL A. RILEY '28, Orange. N.J.. July 
12. A former mayor of Orange and city com­missioner for 17 years, he was executive assistant lo the New Jersey Public Utilities Commission at the time of his death. He is sur\*ived by his widow and two daughters. 
CHESTER ROBERTS '28, Skokie. HI., Dec. 
18. 1964. 
JOHN NASH '29', Skokie, IH.. July 9. He u-as vice-president and trrasiirer of Nash Brothers Con­struction Co. and had seT%-ed on the Chicago Dark district board in 1934. He is sun-ivcd by his widow, a daughter and a brother, Thomas *27. 
JOHN J. NELSON LLB '30, Dubuque, loxra, July 22, 1965. ROGER P. BRENNAN '33, CIcvelan-1. July 14. He is survived by his widow and son, Dennis '63. 
FRANCIS X. FALLON '33, Grand Rapids, Mich., July 12. A practicing attorney at the time of his death, he also served as past president of the ND Club of Grand Rapids, was a former member of the board of directors of the Grand Rapids Urban Leagtie and a member of the hy advisory board of the Grand Rapids Diocese. He \%*a5 on the board of trustees at the Law School. He is survived by his widow, five sons and three daughters. 
EDWARD C. KEEN '40, Honesdale, Pa., Oct. 24, 1965. 
BOB RING '64, Milwaukee, Wis., May I. He was a student at Marquette Medical School at the time of his death. 


RAY T.MILLER'14 
Ray T. Miller '14 died suddenly on Wednesday, July 13. Space nor­mally does not permit the ALUMNUS to give to our deceased the accolades their lives so often deserve. But in the case of Ray MUler at least some of the implications must be ex­panded. A brilliemt legal career in Qeve­land led Ray into the political arena, where he forged a formidable Demo­cratic power. The zenith for Ray Miller came when the late John F. Kennedy, pointing to his chair in the White House, told Ray that he had made it possible for Kennedy to occupy it. Kennedy also once in­troduced Ray as the man he con­sidered the leading politician in America. Ray Miller was mayor of Cleveland in 1932-33 after a four-year term as prosecuting attorney. He was EJSO a candidate for gover­nor of Ohio. But his forte was party organization and the selection of stronger candidates other than him­self. 
To Notre Dame, however, Ray Miller was much more than a legal and political success. In his family, in his religion, in his generous shar­ing of his talents — he was a su­preme director of the K of C and trustee of most of the Catholic charitable institutions in his area — Ray exemplified the best in an edu­cated Catholic layman. 
In his sermon at Ray's funeral Rev. Louis Thornton CSC, a long­time friend, said of Ray, "He never practiced honesty as the best policy, but as the only policy." The Plain-Dealer said in an editorial, ". . . he chose only scrupulously honest, hard-smashing lawyers for his staff .. . his cabinet and aides were mod­els of high ethics . . . whenever he had the say-so, only men of high caliber were chosen for public office." 
Every night since 1950 Ray Mil­ler's radio station, WERE, donated 15 minutes to the Cleveland Arch­diocese to broadcast the Rosary. 
He w£is the second of one of the great American athletic families. He is survived by four brothers: Harry, the hero of the championship team of 1909 which defeated Michigan in a legendary game; Wzdter, whose appearance on football weekends has been in colorful coincidence with all the coaches and teams since 1920; Don, a heroic spin-off from the family tradition as one of the famed Four Horsemen; and Gerry, whose high school prowess was overshad­owed by Don in the Rockne alchemy. Ray, with his dynamic personality and political and legal accomplish­ments, became the focal center of the Millers. Sons and grandchildren indicate a long and cherished cyde ahead. Four of Ray's sons are Notre Dame Alumni—Ray Jr., Dick, Bob and Riley. 
Ray took a keen interest in Notre Dame, attending Reunions, sitting at most of the home football games with an old friend, Pat Manion, and encouraging development of the annual Cedar Point picnic, where he had worked with Knute Rockne as a student and where now the Miller brothers, their families, Ray's sons and daughters and his 29 grand­children would form a formidable nucleus. 
This was a great Notre Dame man whose career reflected many of the richest traditions of Notre Dame. • 
FACULtY AND STAFF DEATHS 
Dr. ALLAN STRATTON SMITH, a professor in the de­partment of chemical engineer­ing since 1946, died July 11 in South Bend. In addition to his teaching duties the veteran sci­entist v;as active in research in his field and is credited with the purification of helium and discovctics in s^-nthelic rubber and aviation gaso­line as well as contributions to techniques in yeast processing, heat transfer and petroleum evalua­tions. He served as a cotisultant for numerous companies and was vice-president of the Chemi­cal Service Corp. of EIjTia, Ohio. He is survived 
by his widow and two daughten. 
ROBERT McAXJLIFFE *18, a former adminis­trative official at the University, died Ai^. 2 in 
S>Tacuse, N.Y. 
is survivxd by a 
 From 1923-25 he was a lecturer in journalism at Notre Dame. He returned to the University in 1932 when he \na named assistant director of student wel­fare; in 1^5 he assumed the pontion of asstsunt prefect of discipline; and in 1946 he served as assistant business manager and director of personnel. He 
 sister and brother. 

THIS PICTURE OF THE "CATHOLIC OFHCERS RESERVE," taken at Ft. Beniamin Harrison on June 10, 1917, probably contains 
Office by W. Grim O'Brian of Sturgis, Mich, and ^s 
50-YEAR CLUB 
WAITER L CLEMENTS '14 
Tower Bldg., 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 

ALBERT A. KUHLE M5 
117 Sunset Ave., 
LaGrange, III. 60525 

Members of the Class of '15 w-ill be surprised and saddened by the news that FATHER ifAT-THEW SCHUMACHER CSC passed away in June. At this writing the July-August issue of the ALUMNUS has not been received. Howe\'er, Tm sure it will bring the sad ncu-s to all Alumni. 
At the time of our Golden Jubilee Reunion in June of '65 a group from the Class of *15 drove over to Holy Cross House for a visit with a number of the Holy Cross Fathers of our time at Notre Dame. In addition to Father Schu­macher we had a most cnjoj-able \*isit with Fathers CORNELIUS HAGERTY CSC and PATRICK DOLAN CSC. Prior to going to Holy Cross House the group went over to Corby Hall !or a visit mth Father CHARLES DOREMUS CSC. 
A distinguished member of our Class, Dr. GEORGE N. SHUSTER, assistant to the Presi­dent, received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree from Mundelein College in Chi­cago in June. Congratulations to our good friend Geojgc-
Your Secretary is interested in rcceiWng some current news about members of the 1913 Class whose mail is returned unclaimed. Following are their names and last known addresses: JOHN ANDREW, Anaconda, Mont.; M. T. ANDREWS, 716 Rogers Dr., Springfield, O.; JAMES ARANI­BAR. 499 Riley St.. Buffalo, N.Y.; STEVEN BURNS, 556 W. Monroe St., Chicago; ROBERT BYRNES, Alkader, lou^; HAROLD CANNON, Curry Hotel, Ironwt>od, Mich.; PAUL DIXON, Court of Honor Life Assn., Springfield, 111.; RAY GUPPY, 20i Rugby Ave., Rochester. NY, ; EDWARD PIEL. 231 S. La Salle, Chicago; IGNACIO QUINTANILLA, Mexico Cit>-; WIL­BUR SIM, Nebraska City, Neb. 
E\'ery cfTort is being made to make contact with these men. Your assistance in this effort will be appreciated. If you are ever in the vicinities i*-here these men resided some discreet inquiries may disclose leads which may ultimately pvc us the results we definitely ^vant. Many tlianks for }-our cooperation in this connection. 
— ALBERT KUHLE, Secretary 

1916 
GROVER F. MILLER 220 9th St., Racine, Wis. 53403 
1917 
EDWARD J. McOSKER 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, III. 60121 
u 
DUKE RILEY, Beau Bnimmel and Class poet, w-as the guest of CARLETON BEH in his box at the Army game and then spent the weekend with Rutli and D.AN GILGARTNER at their country liome in southwestern Michigan, just one hotu­from the campus (as of August 15 deadlines, you know). The "Club Hilgartncr" is open day and night and all *I7ers are invited to stop by, going or coming from football games. 
1918 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrighfwood Ave., Chicago, III. 60647 
Hi. Anotiicr cliance for you to remember a classmate on his birthday. It will be greatly ap­preciated — so why not send a cartl? Let's not "kid" ourselves — won't be many more chances. 
LOUIS H. FOLLETT, 1303 W. Oak St., Nor­rislown. Pa. IMOl, Sept. 3; PETER JOHN ROXCHETTI, 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christ!, Tex. 78404, Oct. 5; THOMAS H. KING, 446 Kedzie Dr., East Lansing, Mich., Oct. 7; LOUIS E. WAGNER, 17 Wood St., Danbury, Conn, 06812, Oct. 10; .\JAXLMILLIAi\ G. KAZUS, 101 Knox Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14216. Oct. 13; PAUL FOGARTY, 5555 Sheridan Rd., Chicago, III. 60640, Nov. 8; JOSEPH T. RILEY, 715 Hackley, Muskegon, Mich., Oct. 14; JAMES 
P. LOGAN, 2951 S, Fillmore Way, Denver, Colo. 80210, Nov. 4; RAY C. WHIPPLE, 373 Western Ave., Joliet, III., FRANK X . RY­DZEWSKI, 8355 Hurley Ave., Chicago, III. 60617 and BODIE ANDREWS, 221 San Carlos Ave., Piedmont, Calif., Nov. 14; IVILLIAJf J. AND­RES, 410 Dorchester Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14610, Nov. 23. 
Regret to leport that CLARENCE H. BROWN passed away. Light a candle Nov. 12, his birthday. Dr. RENE RODRIGUEZ'S family tree — three 
girls, three grandchildren. 
New addresses: EDWARD T. McFADDEN, 2107 W. 72nd PI., Chicago, 111.; WILLIAM BREEN McDONALD, 55 W. 5th Ave., San Mateo, Calif. 94402; JOSEPH WISCHEMEYER JR., 4085 W. 8th St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90005. 
PAUL BYRNE '13 writes that BOB Mc-AULIFFE had undergone surgery and was on his way to recovery when he suffered an attack of angina. Pmyers for his recovery are requested. LOUIS H. HELLERT LLB writes that since 1960 he h.ts been chief closing attorney and alternate project manager of the teal estate project office for the Red Rock Reser^'oir. His new address is 305 N. Roche St., Knoxville, Iowa. WILLIAM E. BRADBURY LLB '16 no doubt has been real busy this simimer as acting state's attorney in phce of his brother J. STAN­LEY BRADBURY LLB '23 who passed away. CHARLES W. CALL b still going phces — last heard he was headed for Hackeilsack, N.J. "WHITEY" WHALEN, now Doctor NEIL J. WHALEN, and his wife enjoyed five weeks on a Mediterranean trip. 
If we missed listing your birthday — you missed rctmning the card we sent. Why not send us the month and the date. Good health for 100 years. 
— GEORGE B. WAAGE, Secretary. 

1919 
THEODORE C. RADEAAAKER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, (nd. 46900 
1920 
JAMES H. RYAN 
170 Maybrook Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14618 
1921 
DAN W. DUFFY 
1030 Natl. Gfy E. 6th BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
1922 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 175 Landing Rd. N., Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
Some of our dear classmates have recently been immobilized due to illness. In June in the Phibdelphia area D.\N YOUNG and ED BAILEY Were hospitalized, but wc are pleased to report that by mid-July both had been released from hospital confinement and presently are feeling fine. RICK McCARTY of Canton, Ohio, thought­fully wrote to tell us of the illness of EUGENE SMOGOR of South Bend. A phone call to the Smogor home developed the information that Gene had a gall-bbdder operation on July 26 in St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend, where he sdll locates, as this is ^\Titten. 
On July 28 in Philadelphia at the Hotel Mar­riott, a grand surprise testimonial dinner was given' Ed Bailey, who was retiring from the Ford-Philco tympany — closing out 20 years of extraordinary service to his organization. At the time of his retirement Ed was manager of pro­duction services of Ford-Philco. Now, maybe, Ed 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 

more Notre Dame men than the NO campus contained at the time, The original picture was recently given to the Alumni 
framed and waiting for the Golden Jubilee Reunion. 
and wife Joan will have time to visit their eleven 
offspnns ^^'ho are scattered to the four winds. 
Announcement has been made of the marriage 
of Amelia Mae Jones, daughter of R. GERALD 
JONES of 3&t2 Edison St., San Mateo, Calif., 
to David W. Muris, lieutenant in tlie Air Force, 
in St. Gregory Church, San Mateo on June 1. 
Announcement from Mr. and Mrs. John G. Cum­
ing of Greenwich, Conn, tells of the marriage 
of their daughter, Pamela Jane to Terence 
Cotter Shea, son of the ARTHUR C. SHEAS, 
also of Greenwich (20 Church St. Apt. B 20) at 
St. Mar>*'s Church, Greenwich on June 18. 
We regret we are lacking in some major de­
tails in the marriage of the son (Roger Lee) of 
Chicago's PAUL PFOHL to the former Mtss 
Margaret MuUady in Chicagoland on May 23. 
The reception ^^•as held at the bride's father's 
Rogers Red Top Farm and was attended by more 
than 900 guests. 
To the newly wedded offspring of our classmates 
and to their life partners in marriage, we ex­
tend very best \»-ishcs! 
Interest is booming for our gala 45th An­niveRary Reunion to be held at ND next June. No Class has a more dedicated and active group than ours in the St. Joseph Valley. They are "chomping at the bit" and ready to go again with their all to :nsm^ that we have a grand turnout and an unforscttable campus Reunion. RANGY MILES even goes into research to ascertain that we will need 72 out of 128 total on the campus next June to tie the existing record. 
— G. "KID" ASHE, Secretary 
1923 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
1924 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. lafoyette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
1925 
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo, Ohio 43606 
Lucky you . . . it's forty two! Let us have another first for the Class of 1925. Your Class President DON MILLER, your Alumni Secretary JA>fES ARMSTRONG and yo-jr Class Secretary got their heads together at Cedar Point July 9 and decided we Itave had so much fun at our reunions during these past forty-odd years that we ought not w^t till 1970. Let*s have "an in­betwecner"! Learned from HANK WUR2ER in Davenport that he thought the idea **swen.'* So be it — your officers ever unanimous! 
After a phone conversation with Jim Arm­strong, I asked the highest ranking clei?g}*man In our class, Rt. Rev. JOHN KING MUSSIO, to be the main speaker at our reunion luncheon on Saturday or dinner on Friday. I told him I wanted him to meet his classmates "in the flesh." "25cr" John Mussio is the Bishop of Steubenville, Ohio and most of you wonder where he came from, as I did. He ^vas one of the lew feUott^ like HENRY BARNHART and CLARENCE "PAT" MANION, who wtrc smart enough then, to do what most graduates are doing today — he wais taking post-graduate work and could have chosen one of three classes 
— so he chose the best! Bishop Mussio is an articulate speaker and it*s %%-orth coming back just to hear him, to say nothins of a revival of the "bull sessions" that never seem to end. Just in case >'ou think "it's too late" your secretary wants you to know tliat the 99 44/1009& of the two hundred members of your class are "younger than springtime" and we want every single one back, so you can meet "the freshman" of your class. Bishop John King Mussio. 
The Chicago, New York and Ohio boys are lining up their local committees now. I will try to get a "yes" from every Ohioan, as well as the Hoosiers, when I pass through peddling my furniture in these two states. A quote from General Douglas MacArthur's credo might stir us into action: 
"Youth is not a time of life. It's a state of mind. It's a temper of the wiU, a quality of the imagination, a vigor of the emotions, a predominance of courage over timidity, of the appetite for adv-enture over love of ease. No­body grows old by merely living a number of years. People grow old only by deserting their ideals. Years wrinkle the skin, but to give up enthusiasm wrinkles the soul. Worry, doubt, self-distrust, fear and despair — these bow the head and turn the gro^ving spirit back to dust. 
"Whether 60 or 16, there is in every being's heart the love of wonder, the sweet amazement at the stars and the starlihe things and thoughts, the undaunted challenge of e\*ents, the unfailing childlike appedte for what next, and the joy of the game of Ii\>ing. 
*'You are as young as your faith, as old as your doubt; as ^'oung' as your self-confidence, as old as your fear; as ^'oung as your hope, as old as your despair. So long as your heart receives messages of beauty, cheer, courage, grandeur, and power from the earth, from man and from the Infinite, so long are you young. When the wires arc alt doHti, and all the central places of your heart are covered with the snoivs of pessimism and the ice of cynicism, then, and only then, are ycu grown old indeed, and may God have mercy on your soul. Live every day of your life as though you expect to live forci'cr." 
We want every one of you 23ers to say like Doug — "I shall return next June." 
— JOHN P. HURLEY, Secretary 
1926 
J. N. GEISON Gelson & Lowell, Inc. 200 East 42nd St. New York, N.Y. 10017 
BUD BARR took time out from the extensive renovations he is doing at the "Old Homestead," Chalmers, Ind. to send me a clipping from the Indianapolis News of June 21. The article states that MIKE REDDINGTON was appointed dty corporation counsel, a job he has held before. It further went on to state that Mike served as corporation counsel from 1936 to January 1964 and since then has served as attorney for the Indianapolis Flood Control. He has been active in Democratic politics for many years. 

IZ PROBST ivanted to make sure that every* one knew that the good gays at the June He-union were the ones wearing the white hats. ART HALEY appropriated the slogan from the Chrysler Corporation. I had a nice note from Cecelia Sullivan (WADE's wadow) thanking me for a card I had sent from the Reunion. She is still living in the ."big old house where Wade was bom." 
There is a message from one of CHARLIE MARGUET's non-admireis who says "You still cannot sing after 40 •jxai?.** TTiis refers to Charlie's singing at the Mass on the Sunday that ended the Reunion. 
ED BURKE was very much disappointed that he could not make the Reunion but due to the summer season coming on he was kept busy at his bar and liquor store in Lake Mohawk, Sparta, 
N.J. Ed's daughter Rit is moiried and has three cliildrcn. His son Randy finished his freshman year in dentistry at the U. of West '^^rginia. Ed is able to make an occasional trip to the harness racing track at Monticello, N.Y. One night recently he won the daily double, twin double and pcrfecta. Not a bad start for a beginner (?). 
TOM FARRELL admits that he is "prac­tically retired." He is going to Dartmouth in August for a course in continuing educatioa that will last two weeks. One of Tom's sons, Francis, is married and has two Irish twins. If there are others like myself who do not know what Irish twins are, they are two children bom in the same calendar year but separately. THOMAS A­FARRELL, Jr. '58 is in France teaching. Tom gives a report that GERRY HAYES is still mis­behaving at golf. Both Tom and Gerry have been looking for JIM STACK who prondsed at the Reunion to come east in July to keep a golf date. JIM WALDRON's son JIM Jr. *58 ii being married Aug. 13. (Raoul Gomez pleasi take note.) 
I would appreciate the Regional Vice-presi­dents sending to me news items regarding Class­mates in their area. 
— "DOC" GELSON, Secretary 

1927 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. River St., Aurora, III. 60504 
fourth estaters cap long careers 
Murray Powers had a head start on his Classmates of '23 when he left Notre Dame in 1922 to make his first mcirk in the field of jour­nalism. Since that time he has carved an enviable career in the de­msuiding field. 
Journalism has been his forte since he began as a reporter for the Springfield (Ohio) Sun. From 1924­26 Murray was dramatic editor for the Dayton Herald, an assignment which, much to his liking, took him to all the plays, vaudeville shows Emd circuses in the area. In 1926 he began a nine-year stint with the Brush-Moore newspapers which saw him rise from managing editor of the Morion Star, a position which he held for four years; to manager of the sjmdicate's Columbus news bureau; to a four-year editorship with the 
Portsmouth Times. 
The Akron Beacon Journal was the last paper for which Murray labored. After 32 years and an outstanding career with the paper he has retired from his position as assistant execu­tive editor. He joined the Beacon Journal staff in 1934 as a copy edi­tor; within a short time he was 
Murray Powers '23 
news editor; then Sunday editor. The managing editorship was offered Murray in 1948 and he held the posi­tion for 17 years. Under his editorial guidance the paper received numer­ous awards for typography and news coverage. 

His busy career in the world of newsprint hasn't kept Murray from "extracurricular" activities. He be­gan devoting time to lecturing in journalism at Kent State University 27 years ago. By 1951 he was named an assistant professor, a position in which he intends to continue during his retirement. A biweekly newslet­ter, sent out by the Beacon Joumai for those serving their country over­seas, was initiated by Murray some time ago as a special service. Over 2,000 servicemen and Peace CJorps volunteers now receive regular news from home through his efforts. 
Nor is he a laggard when it comes to leadership in professional, civic and Church organizations. It has been said jokingly that if there were a permanent presidency of a world society of past-presidents, Murray would surely hold the post Among the ofl3ces of president he has held are: Ohio Blue Pencil Club; Akron Buckeye chapter of Sigma Delta Chi (of which he was also a founder); Associated Press Society of Ohio; County Red Cross blood program; Holy Name Society (in two par­ishes); Akron Notre Dame Club; Akron chapter of Serra Internation­al; and the Pete Mardo Tent Circus Fans of America. 
He and his wife of 42 years, the former Ruth M. Hill, live at 3615 Edgewood Dr. in Stow, Ohio. They have two sons, J. Murray '48-'49 and Martin '59, and six grandchil­dren. • 
Cliflford B. Ward '23 is a man of determination. While still at Notre Dame he set his sights on a journalistic cai-eer which ended only this May when he retired after 43 years of service to the Fort Wayne News-Sentittel. He gained valuable experience early in his chosen field as secretary to the ND Press Club and as assist­ant editor to both the Dome and the Scholastic. Upon graduation Cliff joined the staff of the News-Sentinel as a reporter, a position which he held for 12 years. In 1933 he as­sumed additional duties as a col­umnist with the introduction of his daily column, "Good Evening." It has appeared reguleirly since that time and will continue to mark his influ­ence on the newspaper with a thrice-weekly appearance during his retire­ment In it he has explored and evaluated current topics of interest pertinent to the American way of life. His criteria for the formation of his opinions have always been pro-American, nonextremist and Chris­tian—a set of principles whidi has governed his reporting of the news from his days as a "cub" through his editorship. 
In 1935 Cliff joined the editorial staff of the newspaper and within six years he had been named manag­ing editor of the fifth largest daily in Indiana. He became the editor-in­chief of the News-Sentinel in 1945 amd during his 21-year tenure con­tinued to contribute notably to the fidd of journalism. In 1965 he was named "Man of the Year" by the Fort Wayne Press Club. 
His civic activities give evidence to his belief that an editor's respon­sibility to the community does not cease when the paper goes to press. He is a director of the People's Trust and Savings Co. and a member of the bank's executive, auditing and profit­shstring committees. A former direc­tor of the Fort Wayne YMCA, he is a vice-president and director of the Foellinger Foundation, a charitable organization. Cliff serves as a member of the lay advisory boards of St. Francis College and St. Joseph Hospital and is a trustee of St. John the Baptist Parish. 
An ardent interest in politics saw 
Clifford B. Ward '23 
Qiff serve as state publicity director for Herbert Hoover's presidential campsugn in 1928 and as an Indiana delegate to the Republican national convention in 1952. 
He and his wife, Viola, have three children and, at last count, eight grandchildren. Their two sons, Allen '51 and Terrence '59, are both Notre Dame graduates. The Wards live at 4655 Old Mill Road, Fort Wayne. • 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 19M oaOBER 
1928 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 68-10 TOSth St, Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375 
RUSSELL RILEY died suddenly on July 12 from a heart attack. Russ, an attorney, was executive assistant to the Sew Jersey Public Utility Commission at the time of his death. He had served for 12 yean as Mayor of Orange, 
N.J. He is survived by his wife and t\vo daughters. One of the daughters was married recently. WILLUM BRO^VN, a lifelong friend of Russ, is secretary of the Board of Education in Orange, N.J. FATHER JIM McSHANE, SJ has our sympathy upon the death of his Mother. Father Jim arranged, with the help of funds donated by our classmates, for the transportation of two Hondurans to St. Louis. The young girl had successful heart surgery and her grand­mother, removal of gall bladder. Father Jim was assisted by ZIP SPORL in making arrangements. 
ED QUINN has done his usual excellent job 
in arranging for our 11th Annual '28 Class 
Cocktail Party at Xotre Dame immediately fol­
lowing the Army game on October 8. This affair 
will be held at Room IW O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
If you havcn*t done so as yet, drop Ed a note 
at the Department of Guidance, Notre Dame, 
advising him as to the number he should plan 
for in your party. 
BERN GARBER has our s>-mpaihy upon the 
death of his sister. Bern and I had lunch with 
TOM BOV who was in town from his Humble 
Oil and Refinery Co. ship. Tom was on his way 
to a \-acation in the Far East. We also had a 
good get-together uiih LARRY CULLINEY and 
his family in North Haven, Conn, on the oc­
casion of his 25th wadding anniversary. Bern and 
I enjoyed reviewing copies of the Juggler which 
brought back some fond mcmoncs to all of lis. 
GENE FARRELL, editor of The Jersey Journal, 
wrote that despite all the sad reports about 
deaths in my Class news, there was a bright 
spot — JOE BR.\NNON surfaced. Gene was 
happy to know that Joe b as wild as ever. I 
read In the press about Gene having been 
elected to the chairmanship of the world-famous 
Jersey City Medical Center. Gene responded to 
my note of congratulations by stating that any of 
our classmates who know of good young interns 
he can acquire will be doing him a great favor 
if they will contact him. 
BERN GARBER gave me the follouing report on the Class sun,'ey he made recently: "Of those responding to my questions; 61% want Mass for deceased classmates to be said at ND; 90% favor lia\'ing a Mass Fund; 919o desire two Masses a year for deceased and two for h'ving classmates; 47% like a '28 Class atr-flight, a few more prefer Europe over Bermuda; 75% would give retire­ment details to other; and most would like to receive such information; 79% like an annual '28 get-together, preferably in July-August; 67% are against exchanging information on their problems." 
The Miami paper carried the pictures of two classmates, F. X. JIM O'BRIEN and GEORGE COURY in an article entitled, "More Bears than Bulls Among Miami Brokers." Both Jim and Geotsc were classified as "bearish." The same paper carried a picture of ART DINCH­FIELD, executive vice-president of the Chamber of Commerce of the Americas, who was quoted saying, "Latins need less socialism and more capitalism." COLONEL LEO J. SCHULTHEIS wrote from El Paso, Tex. that he returned from the Regular Army in 1961. His daughter, a 
FOR THOSE WHO ATTENDED NOTRE DAME IN 

'55 graduate of Catholic U., has ux children. RODOLFO B. GARZA, after having been work­ing in Mexico City for four yean, returned to Saltillo, Coahuila, ^{exico where his married daugh­ter and son, a cavil engineer, Uve. His youngest daughter lives in Marseille, France. BOTTS CROWLEY reports that JOE MARRISSEY is in the Hamilton County Sheriff's Office in Ohio. Botts is still on the profesuonal baseball route with MacGregor, the tailor of the Major Leagues. GERALD SHIEBLY is with the Defense Supply Agency in Toledo, O., Quality Assurance Div. as Petroleum and Chemical representative. WAYNE EWING of Weston, O., is still single. He talked to DICK WEPPNER reccntiy in Silver Spring and to QUENTIN WIEDE^UN in Pitts­burgh. Wayne has our sympathy upon the recent death of his mother. BROTHER OSWALD CFX has returned from Rome and is now assigned to St. Xavier High School in Louisville, Ky. GEORGE CRONGEYER wrote from a cruise ship headed for Istanbul. GEORGE (STEVE) MC­LAUGHLIN is in the cami\-al business in Chi­cago. He has six children. Steve saw BOB DICK in Denver recently and talked to HARRY LAWRENCE and Judge AL FRANTZ there. My wife, Pauline, saw CECIL ALEXANDER and CARL MOORE at a reunion of their class of Mishau-aka High School. 
Your Class Secretary wrote the section on economics in a recent publication of the Fordham University Press cntided. The Interdisciplinary Roots of Guidance^ and an article on social security and social insurance in a Bruce Publish­ing Company book cntiUed The Church and Social Progress. Father MARK FITZGERALD CSC wrote the article on "Development of Na­tional Resources" in The Church and Social Progress. VINCE CARNEY reports that all six of hb children are in Europe or India this sum­mer so he found time to get together with the BILL BROWNS from Milwaukee and JOE GRIF­FINS from Chicago. Bern Garber reports that TOM iLVHON's son, Tim, will enter Notre Dame in September (any other '28 sons?). TURK MEINERT's son, Ted, is in fourth-year architec­ture at Notre Dame and another son is at Youngstown U- JACK SHEEDY, once our Class Treasurer, has youngest son, Charles, at Notre Dame, Class of '69. JOHN LEITZLXGER has put six children through college, has two at­tending college and three in high school, plan­ning college. NEIL AMIOT is owner and presi­dent of Amiot's Dry Cleaners in Grosse He, Mich. Neil has two children and eight grand­children. JOSEPH P. KINNEARY's appoint­ment by President Johnson to be United States DtsCricC Judge lor the Southern District of Ohio was confirmed by the Senate on July 22, 1966. This adds a fourth classmate to the Federal bench. 
The other classmates are ROBERT GRANT, Chief Judge of the Northern Indiana District Court in South Bend, Judge GEORGE BEAMER of the Northern Indiana District Court in Ham­mond, and Judge WILLIAM B. JONES of the United States District Court in the District of Columbia. 
I saw Father MARK FITZGERALD CSC this summer on his way to Bnusels, Luxemburg and the Netherlands to continue his study of the European common market. His book on this subject will be published soon. Judge BILL JONES advised that he got together vnih JOE KINNEARY and JOHN FONTANA when Joe was in Washington to appear before the Senate Committee following his nomination to be district judge in Columbus, O. Bill also saw JOHN RICKARD in Washington. Bill reporu that DICK PHELA N lias been seriously ill for some 
 1925 and for many Hearden, Don Miller, 
time and is now at the heart cUiuc at the U . of Minnesota. 
— LOU BUCKLEY, Secretary 

1929 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
STEPHEN McPARTLIN, 114 E. Witchwood 
Lane, Lake Bluff, Bl., formerly in sales admin­
istration, self-employed for the past ax yean as 
a mani^acturer's agent writes: "A month ago 
RAY HILLIARD and I made tenutive idans 
for our 40ih Class Reunion. The Lord took him 
suddenly July 4. We had not only fpaduated 
together from elementary school, but had trans­
ferred together from Notre Dame to the U. of 
Chicago in February of *28. We each attended 
classes there in the moroing, operated oil stations 
in the evening and received our bachelor's de­
grees in June, 1929. FRANK McADAMS, ED 
BRENNAN, ED GARRTry, DAN McCAIN and 
I had the sad task of being pallbeareis for Ray. 
**Five days later, after a protracted illness, 
JOHN NASH joined Ray. TWTO great guys — 
RIP — and I know they^U both be with us in 
spirit in June, 1969." 
Steve adds "I will attend the Northwestern 
game and perhaps the Army game. BILL DIC!K 
writes that he still enjoys life in Long Beach, 
Calif." 
The Chicago newspapers of July 5 and 6 de­voted columns of compliments to Ray HilUard who was survived by his wife, Mary Catherine, of 1508 W. Estes Ave., Chicago, by his two sons, JAMES '59 and Raymond Jr., and tune grandchildren. Since June, 1954 he has been public aid director of Cook County. The current budget of the agency is $200,000,000 a year. Excerpts from these columns follow: **Death has taken Raymond Hillian), perhaps the most elo­quent defender of the poor in the United States .. . he had a soft heart and a keen feeling for tRfc plight of the poor .. . he was one of few high officials in his field who reg­ularly went to the slums, knocked on doors and sat down and talked with the people . . . from 1948 to 1954 he was a welfare adminbtiator in New York City where he was credited with cleaning up a scandal-ridden department . . • he trimmed chiselers from relief rolls and &ed known Communists as welfare workers .. . he started programs in literacy, housekeeping, job rehabilitation, budget keeping, vocational train­ing .. . he helped thousands of men and women to get off of relief and to become self-supporting .. . in 1962 there were 289,000 on relief in the county, he initiated a program of adult literacy classes and job-retraining pn}granis which de­creased relief rolU more than 13 percent, his plan has served as a model for other cities. .. . 
"Hilliard's last public appearance was June 5 as commencement speaker lor Chicago College of Osteopathy where he said of relief redpients, *No longer can we respond to their needs with a check. Rather, society must respond with an un­derstanding that recogiuzes human dignity.' An earh'er quote which chastised the public [or al* lowing bigotry to keep some Negro families on the public aid rolls follows: 'You are paying a high price for the indulgence of your distrimina­tion. . . . ' He was at times critical of civil rights leaders for not showing more positive leader­ship for the Negro community, particularly in stressing the Importance of education as a means of opening doors of opportunity. 
^'Critical at times of legislators, of &then who 
 Bill Cerney, Joe Harmon, Jim Crowley, - Noble 
others, this picture of the 1925 Rose Bowl Teom in Posodena will bring Kizer, Joe Maxwell, "Dog" White, Red Edwards, John Walloce, John bock many pleosant memories. The picture—featured here simply as a 
Roach (who gave us the picture], John McMullen, Joe Bolond, Leo Sutliff, faon voyage message of good will to the 1966 football team—shows the Wilbur Eaton, Tom Lieb, Herb Eggert, Adam Walsh, Joe Rigali, Joe late Cardinal John F. O'Hara CSC seoted in the front row, flanlced by Clem Crowe ond Chuck Collins. Others include: George Bishop [a 
Boch, Charlie Glueckert, Bernie Coughlin, Joe PreJH, Ed Scharer, Vine* stand-in for his cousin Elmer Layden), Rip Miller, John McManmon, Red Harrington, and John Weibel. 
iHII m iiji .^•Q 
deserted their families, of limdlords who failed to keep their property in repair he still had their respect and admiration. Maj-or Rlchatd J. Daley called him, *a great and humane man.* Others said of him, 'Chicago and tlic nation have lost a \isorous and crusading leader in public aid. He um a man of deep sodal con­cern.' " 
The Class of '29 is honored by such as he. 

We share the pride and the loss that his family 
does. 
Your Secretary has only the information fur­

nished by Sieve ilcParih'n on the July 9 death 
of John Nash. He w*as out of the same cloth as 
Ray Hilliard — those who knew him best ad­
mired him most. 
A much belated death notice has come to our attention. GERALD P. O'COXXOR, prominent attorney and industrialist of 1002 W. 25th St., Eric, Pa., died August 29, 1964- He u-as sum'ved by his wife, Jane (Schuwerk), and his daughter, Joan. Gerry was a partner in Custom Automatic Products Co, Earlier he had practiced law. He was at one time a teacher of law at Gannon and Villa. Afaria colleges. Wc are sonr that this in­formation was not received and relayed earlier, and send the belated but sincere sjinpathy of the Class to his family. 
Mr. and Mrc. JIM KENNEDY, he's an in­dustrial counselor, of 6554 Vf. Imhy, Chicago, were on the campus for the gmduation of son. Bob. We thank Jim for sending us news and renew our congratulations to Bob. J.'\CK KEARNS and his wife, of Champaign, III., were present for son James' June graduation as was older brother JOHN '58. James will be continu­ing his studies in sociology at the U. of Ilh'nols. Lair)* Stauder II received his AB at Notre Dame in June. He will continue in September on his 6ve-year program leading to the BSEE. 
HUGH McMAN7GAL, Box 606, Miami, %*-as a Cleveland \-isitor of Eileen and BILL BYRNE recently and talked with KARL M.\RTERSTECK. He writes that GEORGE LEPPIG, who retired as a ifarine colonel about five years ago, is now sheriff of I>3de County, Fla. TO.M WALKER son of former postmaster general of the US, is sheriff in adjacent Broward County. 
The new address of ROBERT DICK Is Akolt, Shepherd and Dick, 931 Fourteenth St., Denver and that of CHARLES ^VOLFRAM, formerly of Euclid, O. and Washington, D.C, is the School of l^w, U. of MinncsoKi, Minneapolis. IVIL­LIAM T. BYRNE, formerly of Santa Cruz, no%v lives at 414 Dorscv Ave., Aplos, Calif. Re\'. JOHN J. IL\RRINGTON CSC, formerly of Dacca, E. Pakistan, is now at Kin>'ainasika Teachers' CoKege, Box 39, Fort Portal, Uganda, 
E. Africa. 
JOE LENIHAN and wile, Dolores, »s'ere mak­ing plans for a \-isit to Europe ^vhcn last heard from. Their home address is now 4 Alvce Lane, Rumson, N.J. Dr. P.\TRICK J. SULLIV.\N has moved from Staten Island to USPHS Hospi­tal, 1600 Clifton Rd. N.E., Atlanta, Ga. BILL WILBUR'S address is 217 Alexander Blvd., Elm­hurst, III. His son is registered at Notre Dame. JOE BARNETT, 321 Canton St., Ogdensburg, N.Y., insurance agent, broker consultant, is in his 30th year of business there. He plans to be back for the 40ih Reunion in '69 and for the Army game Oct. 8. He is the proud fatJicr of daughters Mary Ann, a senior at Nazarclli College, and Kate and Margaret, both in high school. 
After-game get-together — Engineering Build­ing — immediately after Army game — will we sec you there? 
— LARRY STAUDER, Secretary 

1930 DEVERE PIUNKETT O'Shoughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
1931 
JAMES T. DOYLE 
1567 Ridge Ave., Apt. 308 Evonston, III. 60201 
1932 JAAAES K. COLLINS 2982 Tonrington Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio 44122 
iir 

IKE TERRY, tlic Class president, says that he is looking forwiutl to a good turnout at the get-together after the Pittsburgh game. Since this is the Homecoming game, a good crowd should be on hand. He wants to remind ever^'one that it is not too early to plan on attending our 35th Reunion next June, J.\CK COLLINS and JOHN KIENER have volunteered their assistance to Ike with the arrangements. 
Archbishop PAUL HALLIN.\N was given the Pax Christi award of St. John's University at their 109th Commencement. He recently spoke at all the Afasses at St. Ann's Church in Cleve­land in behalf of the less fortunate parishes in his diocese. 
JOHN LITCHER has been named wee-presi­dent of the American Appraisal Company. He heads the company's continuous service division which maintains property records for insurance purposes oi 2,300 companies. 
Among recent changes of address are JOHN COAKLEY to 1950 E. 71st Street, Chicago 49, and BOB LAW to 242 N. Oiaton Parkway, East Orange, N.J. 07017. 
— JIAf COLLINS, Secretary 

1933 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. Gillespie & O'Connor, 342 Madison Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10017 
We learned with deep regret of the recent deaths of WILLIAM KNOX of Eranston, 111., who passed away in June; FRANCIS X. FAL­LON of Grand Rapids, Mich, and ROGER P. BRENNAN of Qcvehind. 
Bill Knox, according to information received from the Alumni Office, died in June- He was, at the time of his death, president of Knox & Schneider, paper merchants. Frank Fallon died on July 12. He is survived by his wife Rita and eight children. Frank had been practicing law in Grand Rapids since he left New York after WW 11. His oldest boy was graduated with honors from Catholic U. a few years back. He was a prominent member of the Catholic XJ. GE "College Bowl" team on TV and after stud>'ing under a Fulbright Scholarship has been teaching overseas under the Peace Corps program. His second oldest boy is a graduate of George­town U. and Har^'ard Law School. Frank was a past president of the Notre Dame Club of Grand Rapids and served for a number of years as a trustee of the Notre Dame Law School. Roger Brennan apparently died from a heart at­tack. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, and 
Rudy Goepfrich '26: 
T
here's no stopping Rudolph Goep­firich '26, braking expert. Al­though he retired from the Bendix Products Automotive Division in July, the designer of the braking systems intends to keep on working on the brakes of the future. Rudy's idea of retirement doesn't sound too different from his work. He will continue to represent Bendix at the meetings of national organizations dedicated to safety and automotive improvement, will handle the chal­lenge of unusual jobs that arise at the plant, and will continue to in­vent— "if an idea strikes me." 
During his nearly forty years with 
•^^^'W^>WW^I^'^'^(V^^^MV^'^^WW*MM^W^M^^^M^^^^A^^^^^^^^^^I^^^^^^I^^>'^^^^*^*^>^*^>>^^*^ 
seven children. He was a member of tlie dis­tinguished Cle\'eland law firm of Jones, Day, CocJdey & Rcari$. Roger ivzis on the Xotre Dame Law School Advisory Council; a leader in Catholic educational circles in Cleveland; a di­rector in Catholic educational circles in Cleve­land; a director of the Catholic Cliaritics Bureau; a trustee of tlie Catliolrc Charities Corp.; a trustee of Gilmour Academy; director of Forest City Hospital Assn. and a member of the Cleve­land and American Bar Assns. His oldest son, DENNIS, ^%•as graduated from XD in '63 on the occasion of Rogcr^s 30th Class Reunion. 
To each of the families of these three de\'otcd classmates we extend our sympathy and assurances of our prayers. "In Paradisum Dcducant Te Angeli." We also received a note from ED COUGH of Cleveland advising us of Roger Brennan*s death. 
J. Rich Steers, Inc., internationally prominent contractors, of which GENE RAU is president, has just finished the new jet air strips and general airport reno^-ations at New York's Ken­nedy Airport and is now engaged in se\*eral major Hudson River waterfront reconstruction projects including, among other things, the new US Lines pier in Nciv York Hari>or. ED ECKERT is spending a good part of the summer at Lake IMadd — which is just a short air spin from his seat of operations in Albany. Fr. FRANK GARTLAND CSC who is stationed at the Holy Cross Seminary in Northeastern Xfassachu­setts, spent the summer at Camp Seback in North Seback^ Me. Frank has been busily en­gaged during the past year conducting missions in the East. MARTIN LINSKEY, the Connecti­cut squire, spent the summer boating along Long Island Sound. 
CHARLIE COXLEY, who nilj be general chairman of our 35th Reunion in June, 1968, would welcome the \-icw^ and suggestions of Class members, Charlie's home address is 100 East TumbuU Ave., Havcrtown, Pa. Present plans are for a meeting of the Cl:us officers the weekend of the Na^-y game in Philadelphia on Oct. 29. Those members of the Class who plan on at­tending the Navy game are requested to contact Charlie in advance so they can be informed of the place where the Class officers will meet. 
JIM GARRIGAN of Upper Montchiir, N.J. recently underwent surgery at Memorial Hospital in New York. Jim can be reached at 375 Upper Montclair Ave., Upper Montclair, N.J. Suggest you drop hun a note. CHARLIE HAFRON now at the U. of San Francisco reminds us that in 1968 when we will be celebrating our 35th Reunion UND N-ght %rill be in its 46th year and the Alumni Assodation will be celebrat­ing its centennial year. At long last we have found a Class historian. CHARLES LAZIO now re­sides at 912 E. Tennessee, ifcAIester, Okla.; ED ACKERMAN's new address is 2013 S. Covell, Sioux Falls, SJy.i and JOHN W. JAEGER is now reading at 825 Monewood Ave., Pittsburgh according to the recent notices received from the Alumni Office. 
JIM GEREND, writing from Milwa'tkce, in­formed us that Father LLOYD TESKE CSC celebrated his 25th anniversary of his ordination in June. Father Teske is now rector of Fisher Hall. SAM HYDE, who is with American Can 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 
patent king 
the company he rose to become chief 
of the new development section and 
chief engineer of the Products Auto­
motive Division. An interesting 
aspect of this work was the world­
wide travel it offered him. Rudy has 
lent his knowledge to automotive 
engineers in Bendix plants through­
out Europe and Asia. During 1961­
63 he spent several weeks in Japan 
helping to establish a Japanese sub­
sidiary plant near Tokyo and giving 
a six-week course to locEil engineers. 
The Notre Dame mechanical engi­
neering graduate began his career 
as an inventor in 1931 when his first 
US patent was awarded for the de­
Co., visits MiUvau]£ce frequently. From Jim 
we also learned that GENE CALHOUN, who 
lives in Los Angeles, lost his mother recently and 
tliat he and his brother GEORGE ('35) were 
bact in Shcbo>*gan tor their mother's funeral. 
WILLIAM P. CARROLL Jr. continues to prac­
tice law in Chicago with the firm of O'Leary 
& Carroll. 
DANIEL J. CASEY, who Uves in Evergreen 
Park, in., is director of engineering and con­
struction at the Atomic Energy Commission ofHcc 
in Argonne, III. LOUIS E. CHAWGO is office 
manager of St. Regis Paper Co. at its Chicago 
branch. L.\URENCE CHOUINARD U with 
Voungstown Sheet and Tube Co. and still pro­
duces in East Chicago, Ind. EDWIN COGLEV 
JR. still lives in Oak Park, III. and is with the 
buying department at Seat?, Roebuck & Co. in 
Chicago. JOHN J. COLLINS, who lives at 
9601 Dobson Ave., Chicago, has reached the 
happy stage of life in which he designates him­
self as retired. 
Several issues of the Alumnus now carry an attractive postcard designed to jot down a few lines to your Class Secretary. As the years fly by it becomes more difficult to assemble Class notes and petsonal letters. Xfay we suggest yo'i use tlie postcard — even if it be just to record your date of birth or marriage or both. 
— JOHN A. HOYT JR., Secretary 
1934 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 523 W. Hillsdale, San Mateo, Cal. 94403 
1935 
FRANK T. McGUIRE 
V. P.—Special Projects, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
BOB BURNS and his wife stopped in en route from Washington to Chicago. He expected to see TOM LALONDE and ED WALTERS there. He's been in government service for twenty years. Thinks ND has sure changed (expansion). 
FRANCIS T. XfcGUIRE, Secretary 
1936 
URRY PALKOVIC 301 Mechanic St., Orange, N.J. 07050 
At this time I have very little to report from classmates except for a word on JERRY VOGEL. Having so Uttlc time in which to %vrite a short resume of our 30th Reunion, which had to be in by June 20, I forgot to give the credit due to Jerry and his staff for the success of our Reunion. Jcny*5 staff consisted of Rev. JOHN BURKE CSC, who is a member of the Class but could not attend, MORRIS COOPER, JACK SCHOONOVER and GEORGE McNEIL (speaker 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OCTOBER 

sign of a brake assembly. In the 35 
years since that time he hsis reg­
istered over 100 additional patents 
ranging from such widely diverse 
areas as automotive brakes and 
braking systems to a mechanical 
fastener for wheeled toys. One of 
his most widely known inventions 
is the Twinplex brake assembly 
which is now being used in truck 
construction. 
Rudy has also been a major con­

tributor to professional and safety 
organizations. He has long been a 
member of the National Safety 
Council working in the area of win­
ter driving hazards. In 1964 he was 
and vocalist). Our heartfelt congratulations are 
offered the committee for a really successful 30­
year Reunion. 
Wc certainly had a lot of good laughs at our 

gct-logcther in front of Morrissey Hall. One of 
the best stories to come out at o ir Reunion was 
the one told by ED KUMROW — and it ts a 
dilly. It seems that on one occasion when we 
had to get up early to meet the football team 
at the station, BILL. S-AFFA noticed Ed still in 
bed. It was the custom that anyone caught in 
bed was thrown in the lake. Bill told the com­
mittee in charge that in such and such a room 
someone was sleeping. Sure enough it was Ed — 
he hated to get up in the morning. They promptly 
picked him out of bed and into the lake he 
went. However, Bill stayed nearby, helped Ed 
out and carried him back to the hall. It seems 
that on the way to the dormitory Bill told Ed 
flow lie had squealed on him and I guess Ed 
could have died when he learned what his good 
old friend had done to him. How we all laughed 
when he told us this stor>' '— one of the best 
Tvc heard in a long while. Of course. Bill u-as 
always full of tricks and he played a lot of good 
ones at one time or another on all of us who 
were his tiicnds. 
Being allowed more time and space in this Alumnus than in the previous issue, I thought I would fill in with one final word about re­unions. Wc had a reunion all our own on our trip out to ND and back. ANDY HUFNAGLE from Farmingdalc, Long Island, JOE MAHAR from Kingston, N.Y., ED KENNEDY from Albany and I drove out together. Believe you mc, we had one grand reunion reminiscing about old times. And we certainly had a barrel of laughs. This was one of the best trips I\"e ever made in my Kfe and I'll always cherish those pleasant memories. I am sure Andy, Joe and Ed will agree with mc. 
A suggestion was made at our Reunion by one of our classmates about being able to see some of the highlight films of ND football teams from the past few seasons. Any comment on this? 
JOE DONNINO and I, while at our Reunion, took some time off to visit with Mr. John Scannell, our former dean in phj-sical education. It was a real pleasure to visit with our former boss who was one of the best instnicton we fiad while at ND, Received a nice letter from Ed Kumrow saying how he enjoyed our 30th Re­imion and plans to make the next one, too. We all enjoyed the many stories and jokes told by Ed and he was really good company. LEO HOFSCHNEIDER also told some pretty good ones which all of us enjoyed very much. 
In closing, I wish that more of our classmates would drop me a Une now and then as I am running out of material. Get busy, you guys, and write me a line or two or I won't have anything to report for the next few issues. 
— LARRY PALKOVIC, Secretary 

1937 
JOSEPH P. QUJNN P.O. Box 275, lake Lenape, Andover, N.J. 07821 
honored by the technical board of the Society of Automotive Engineers as one of only 18 men throughout the world to receive a Certificate of Appreciation. He was dted for his: "particularly significant and substan­tial service to the Society's tedmical committee work and for major con­tributions of his personal technical 
abiUty." 
The former president of the Class of 1926 is a lifelong resident of South Bend. Rudy and his wife, the former Nellie Janneatte Mans­field, live at 1109 North Qeveland Ave. They have four children and 20 grandchildren. • 
1938 
BURNIE BAUER 
1139 Western Ave., 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 
Got back from an auto vacation with my 
family to the West Coast to find in a foot-high 
pile of mail a deadline notice from the Alumm 
Office along with some good and bad news about 
our classmates. 
Sad was the neu? of FRANK 0*LAUGHLIN's death in Chicago on June 21. Frank some years ago had head surgery and at this year's com­mencement DICK CARRIGAN told me Frank was planning on more surgery. Still his death was a shock probably because we all feel good guys like Frank will be kept around by God to continue the ^reat good they are doing in the world until the last. From the day I first met Frank when some 200 of us answered the general call for freshman basketball on the one court in the Field House down through the years I've ahv-aj's felt better being in his company. Frank alway? seemed to mc to be the type of gentleman Notre Dame aspired to produce. Let's all TC­mcmber him in our prayers and may his memory encourage all of us to follow his example of courage and dedication to God, Country, Com­munity and Notre Dame. 
Happy neu's, yet sad, for us who hate to see "tcmpus fugit" so swftly, was the announcement from JERRY KANE and his wife Katie of their eldest daughter Erin's wedding in August in Seattle. On the way home from California I called NICK LAMBERTO in Dcs Moines who said he had just been in Los Angeles where he visited former Des Moinestan PHIL KIRCH. Nick promised to come down for some games this iaU, since he's still a reporter even though Charlie Callahan won't be there. 
I hope Father JOE R.ACE, whom I missed at the games last fall, will come down this year from Reescville, Wis. where he is at Holy Family I^irish. I predict that if Father Joe stays there long enough the town's name vnU be changed to Raceville. I also predict that JOHN PLOUFF won't come down for any games because he didn't make many from Milwaukee when he lived there and now has moved to 5408 KeOo^ Ave., South Edina, Minn, which b wxr oat in "Good Thunder" land. HANK UPSIE, probably tliinking he would have a better chance at Balti> more world series tickets, has moved to 5511 Wolf St., Oxon HiU, Md. JACK MAHONEY 
21 

made a move in Aslitabula, O. but still not, as yet, to the altar. What a tremendous resistance to involvement! His new address is 355 Prospect Rd. but girls, don*t let that fool >-ou. 
Final announcement — any '3Bcr that comes to South Bend for a football game this fall and doesn*t at least give me a ring will liave a Swedish curse imposed on him — and may even end up being named chairman of our 30th Re­union just less than two years away. 
. — BURXIE BAUER, Secretary 

1939 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 1804 Greenwood Dr., South Bend, Ind. 46614 
Your Secretary was chagrined and embar­rassed . . . had to read in the May-June issue 
(p. 24) of TOM GILLESPIE'S rise to the top post of Scientific Design Co., Inc. of New York. Our apologies, Tom, for non-recognition and siiicerc best wishes. Learned from LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, '28 Class Sccrciar?-, that LOUIS A­RADELET is now director of the Xational Center on Police and Community Rebtions of the School of Police Administration and Public Safety, Col­lege of Social Science, Michigan State U. at East Lansws~ Thank you, Lou. Our classmate, several years ago, ^*tls executive director for the South Bend chapter of the Xational Conference of Christians and Jcw^. JOHX J. GRIFFIX has assumed controlling interest in the First X'atioiutI Bank of WcHston, Xfo. and will serve as executive vice-president. 
On the sad side — John J. Mortimer, father of J. STERLIXG MORTIMER passed to his eternal reward July 4, 1966. All of you who strolled to the su-irling tunes of the Mishatvaka Kilty Band Saturday night of our 25th Reunion will be saddened to learn that Lewis Sneddon, founder of the group, u-as killed during a severe storm. A lightning bolt struck a chimney as Lewis was passing, the bricks cascading upon him inflicting fatal injuries. You will recall that he traded outfits with Father JOHX LYNCH CSC, the perennial rcnnioncfr. 
'39 on the move — WILLIAM J. METRAILER to 8580 Old Hammond Hiehwav, Baton Rojge La., 70309j H.-\RVEY FOSTER to American .Airiines, ID S. LaSalle St., Chicago. 60603; RICHARD V. HUISKIXG to PO Box 961. Boca Raion, Fb . 33432; M. RICHARD BURK­HOLDER to 465 Sla-nton Road West, Troy. O­45373; Col. JOHX L. SUTTOX to US XMR Shape, APO Xew York 09055; EDW.\RD M. TOBIX to 401 53rd St. South, Great Falls, Mont. 
59401. 
Time to begin thinking about our next Re­union in '69. How about helping "Mother Hub-hard" Hannan stock up the cupboard . . . Help . . . Help. . . . 
— JOSEPH E. HA.V.VAX, Secretary 

1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 
117 S. Stewart Ave., Lombard, III. 60148 
1941 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN Spellman & Madden 342 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y. 10017 
1942 
WIlllAM M. HICKEY P.O. Box 8640A Chicago, Illinois 60680 1943 •— JACK WIGGINS 5125 Briggs Ave., LaCrescenta, Cal. 91014 
1944 • 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD 
P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
With ifedicarc prominently ia the neirt, it seems appropriate to report on some '44crs who are members of the medical profession. Dr. PHIL CLiVRKE, Denver, is an interiiist and a found­ing partner of the Denver Clinic, an organiza­tion which was begun in 1956 with nine specialists and now has over 30. He also serves as an as­socbte clinical professor at the U. of Colorado School of Medicine. Phil is one of the more prolific members of the class, father of five bo>-s and five girls. Dr. BILL KELLOW, dean of Hahnemann Medical College, Philadelphb, recently was named an honorary member of its alumm association and was died for his de\'otcd leadership and ser\-icc to his students, to the faculty and to the alumni of the college. In 1965, he was awarded XD*s Centennial Science A\%^d. Dr. HARRY McGEE is a physidan in Bay City, ifich. Dr. BILL DEISS, who like Harry is the father of three, is a professor of medicine and biochemistry at Indiana U., Indi­anapolis. Dr. TOM PUCHXER is a heart spe­cialist in Milwaukee, and is a member of the ^Visconsin Heart Association Board. Dr. JOHX COX'NELLY, a consultant pediatridan and a member of the faculty of the Har\*ard Medical School, enjoj's mountain dimbing in his leisure moments. Dr. KEX FORBES is a urologic surgeon in Green Bay. Dr. ENLMIT JEXXINGS is a ph)3ician specializing in general surgery in Ros­wcH, N.M., and is \*ice-prcsident of the Ne%%­Mexico Medical Sodcty. Dr. AL MICHELS is an anesthesiologist in Cleveland while Dr. CI*AR­EXCE ^VARD is an eye specialist in Peoria. Dr. BOB FISHER practices dentistry in Birmingham, Mich. 
The legal profession likewise is ^vell-reprcsented among '44 alumni. To mention a few — BOB MILFORD practices law with his brother, GEORGE *39 grad, in Marion and Anderson, Ind. He frequently sees PAT KILEY, an al­most-next-door-neighbor. CHARLES ELLEFSEX headquarters in Hudson, Wis. where he is Family Court Commissioner and also is the \'illage at­torney for aea r Lake. CH.ARLES BOYNTOX is a partner in the law firm of Doran, Manion, Bo>'nton and Kamm in South Bend. BOB ROHDE practices in Sheboygan, Wis. and, when time permits, enjoj-s sailing and golfing. 
Major KELLY COOK, on active duty since the Korean War, presently is a USAF instruc­tor at the Royal Air Force College, CranwtU, England and as additional duty is the coach of tlic RAF College basketball team. His brother-in­law. Dr. Robert Brault, lives here in Green Bay. 
AL STELLO is a US Xavy commander and is the administrative officer at the Charleston, S.C. Naval Shipyard. 
JAMES O'BRIEX, professor of philosophy at VilIano%'a U. perliaps can furnish entertainment at our next reunion. His hobby is strumming a guitar. KEN BROWN is chairman of the modem language department and director of the l,atin American affairs program at the New Albu­querque, N.M. Academy. He raises, trains and rides horses for a hobby. NICK ASlXtO is an associate professor of history in Allegany, X*.Y. and enjoys gardening as his hobby; JOE CHEXEY is the assistant headmaster of a prep school in Schuylervillc, N.Y. and also is a publidty and public relations consultant. His hobbies are writ­ing, reading, coaching and piano playing. Scores seem to indicate the hobbies of WALLIE CHRISTMAX and JOE FIEWEGER. Walfie has been bettering his golf game all season and re­cently carded a 69 while Joe has managed to post a low of 76. 
JOHN O'HARA, manager of an independent insurance adjustment agency in Pittsburgh, WIL­LIAM O'COXNOR, a sales engineer for an a5phalt company in Harrisburg, and PAT Mc-DERMOTT, a funeral director in Mc Kccs Rocks, Pa. all have sons who were ND Freshmen last year. BOB LEHMAN who so expertly handled advance arrangements for our bst Reunion, JIM INU'OOD and JOE DILLON keep close tab on acti\itics on the campus because the three are South Bend residents. WARREN LEARY, publbhcr of the Rice Lake, Wis. Chronotype, is past president of tlie Wisconsin Press Assn. and was voted its outstanding columnist in 1965. JOHN ZWICKER, a former Wisconsinite, is back io his home state after havmg lived for the past fifteen years on the East Coast. John is a sales­man living in Wauwatosa. ROBERT GALVIN, Chairman of the Board of ^fotorola. Inc., lias been elected recently to the presidencj- of the Electronic Industries Assn. 
Perhaps some do not realize that CH.ARLES PATTERSON is a member of the University's Xational .Mumni Board. Like everyone who has been a member, he finds it as one of the most rewarding activities in which he has participated. Cliuck has been vntli the Pcrini Corp. since leaving XD and is Wce-presidcnt for corporate relations and assistant to the president. He also ii active in music drdes and has been president of the Framingham Community Concerts the past four years. BOB KOHL, aerospace re­search engineer for XASA, visits the campus annually to recruit qualified personnel. He re­ports that XAS.-\ Clcvckind easily could form a XD Club because appro.\imately tiventy XD grads are at the center. ED DO^VLIXG and ED DRINKARD both regret seldom seeing any *44ers. The former is director of procurement, hotel de­velopment. Pan American Ainv'ays, while the latter Ed is marketing representative for Philco Corp. 
TONTf BILOTTI wonders wliat happened to the idea of a yearbook for the Class of '44. It probably is one of those war casualties. Tony, a 
RAY GEIGER "32: 
R ay Geiger '32 is the world's only philom. The title, taken from the Greek "philomath" or love of learn­ing, is bestowed upon almanac edi­tors after 25 years of work in the field. Ray earned this unique dis­tinction by virtue of his 32 years of service as editor of the Farmers' Almanac. After graduating from Notre Dame, Ray joined his father in the family business, Geiger Bros., sell­ing advertising specialties. One of his clients was the elderly editor of the Farmers' Almanac who asked Ray to take over as sales agent in 1933. Within a year he was full-time editor. He had become the magazine's fifth editor since its 
AlUMNUS SEPTEMBER I!"^ OaOBER 
Queens Village, N.Y. resident and father of two daughters, is a research chemist for American Chicle Co. LEO LARDIE is superintendent of power for the Union Carbide Ashtabula, Ohio Div. plant. He is the father of eight and is past grand knight and past district deputy of tlie 
K. of C. JACK WOELFLE reported tliat his son, the last of his four children and his only hope for ND, won a pony in a name the pony contest. That could cause more problems than winning a car as did your secrctar>*'s wife a fc%v years ago. Jack occasionally heats from AL ZIOLO, a Brooks Brothers man and from ED STEINER, a Dayton, O. real estate tycoon. 
— JOSEPH A. NEUFELD, Secretary 
1945 
FRANK M. LINEHAN 
G.E. Co., 600 Main St., Johnson City, N.Y. 13790 
1946 
PETER P. RICHISKI 60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
Received word from TOM BURNS that he arrived home safe and in one piece after attending that memorable 20th Class Reunion. Tom and his wife Joanne recently became the proud parents ol a baby girl. That makes it three girls and one boy. Tom and his brotlier JA^tES, an N,D. graduate, head the Bums Real Estate and In­surance Agency in Clovis, X.M. A note also ar­rived from PAUL DOYLE wlio pens that he* too, enjoyed the Reunion. Paul is manager of Petroleum Refincr>- of Murphy Oil Corp. in New-Orleans, La. He and his wife Mar>- Lou were expecting their ninth child. They may catch up to Uic ED FISHERS yet. "CHICK" ^L\GGIOH and his mother toured the European continent recently and they had tlic cnjo>*abIe pleasure of revisiting Mrs. Maggioli's birthplace in Italy. "Chick" is owner of the .Auto - Truck Rust­proofing Co., Misliawaka, Ind. "NICK" COM­NHSA paid me a surprise visit a while back. We certainly enjoyed rehashing those wonderful events that occurred at the recent Reunion. "Nick" teaches physical education in a Newark, 
N.J. high school. He and his wife Ronnie have a boy, Vincent. 
That's it for now! Hope some news comes in for the next Issue. 
— PETE RICHISKI, Secretary 
1947 JACK MILES 3218 Bentley Lane, South Bend, Ind. 46615 
COUNTDOWN CONTINUES Preparations continue for "Operation Blast-Off'* otherwise known as the 2&-Year Reunion of 
the Class of '47. If you want to be sure ol a pad off which to be launched, you'd better be doing something about it now. Contact Reunion Control ("c'est moi") and get the word on inner space — unless you prefer to sleep outside over Reunion weekend! 
We're at nine months now and counting. . . . 

SUMMER DOLDRUMS Everything has been slow* during this steamy summer, including the news. But a number of our mates rate mention. The Benedictine Bulletin out of Corpus Christi reveals that DAN ME.\NEY, rancher, consulting civil engineer and "liver" of the Faith, was one of two Catholics selected by the Vadcan as official observers at the quinquennial World ^^ethodist Council in London Aug. 18-26. Accompanied by his wife and tlieir four children, Dan planned side tours to the ancestral home in Ireland and to Scotland, England and possibly to France before returning home early in September. During a latc-JuIy junket to St. Louis with Corinne and GEORGE THONLVS P.VTTON '51 frau und Ich gchabe wundcrbar time. A Sunday morning highlight was a \'isit to the Sheraton-Jefferson to hobnob with some of the 2,000 Mcmphians who Iiad come to town to honor home-town bo>-s Ttm ^fcCar\•er and Phil Gagli­ano of the baseball Cardinals. Prominent in the group was EUGENE PODESTA '48 a business administration gradeate who Is a stockbroker with Homblower and Weeks. Eugene is a brother-in-law of Will Carruthcrs, sports writer for the Nfemphis Press-Scimitar, who organized the trip and shepherded the flock up the Mississippi and back home again. .Also iniiuiring about several friends at ND was Msgr. M. F. Kearney, pastor of Immaculate Conception Church in ^fcmphis and spiritual sustaincr of the cara\'an. A note from Brother IV^\N DOL.\N CSC indicates he's due back to the campus for a visit in August or September. Amusedly, he notes that a careless ALUMNUS proofreader at­tributed one of his quotes to nomadic SAM ADELO in a recent issue, and ruefully alludes to his continuing enforced exile in Dacca: "Sam is probably wondering where this Biroidokuni is. So am. I. SuU a refugee. ..." JIM MURPHY, the University's veteran (the word is appropriate) town-and-gown crier, took wife Barbara and 12-year-oId son Jimmy on an early-July sleeper jump to Boston on the oc­
world's only phllom 
founding in 1818 and even con­tinued to edit the almanac during WW n from a iiospital bed in the South Pacific. 
Since assuming the editorship he has published 32 consecutive issues. Gathering the bits of minutia that fill a large portion of the almanac is a full time job but Ray has a great deal of help in this area. Many friends and readers contribute the bits of wisdom, short verses, touches of Americana, and joltes that are an essential part of the Farmers' Almanac. The magazine also con­tains calendars, tables of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, tide tables and the famed weather forecasts. Ray claims 80 percent 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER ^9ii oaOBER 

accuracy in this latter department 
— believed to be something of a record. 
The original writing and layout is all done by Ray: "February each year I sit down for two solid weeks and work up the Farmers^ Almanac and get it ready for the typesetter." However, Ray lost one of his jobs on the staff over 15 years ago when a young schoolteacher told him his recipes and household hints were terrible. Today that critic is Mrs. Geiger — and all the recipes are tested by Ray and the five Geiger children before being printed in the almanac. In addition to her duties as the Farmers' Almanac's official cook, Ann also writes the 
ca^on of the American CoUese Public Rdationi 
Assn. confab. Dunns their stay the Muiphys were 
entertained at a bibulous cookout bf a pair of 
Pcrini organiiatioit cogs who were whccb as 
well at old ND: Alimim Board member 
CHUCK PATTERSON (along with simuse 
Barbara), nce-president for corporate relations, 
and BLACK JOHN LYNCH (abetted by fiau 
Gunny), editor of the Perini News. 
NELSON BOSWELL. whom we knew as Jack 
in high school and college days, is doing a 
bang-up job for private enterprise and old-
fashioned patriotism via his syndicated daily 
radio ^t , "Challenge and Response." Check to 
see if it's carried in your area. U it is, catch it; 
if not, ask your local station to schedule it. 
Address changes via the Alumni Office apprise 
us Father JOHN PAT DOLAN CSC is cur­
rently in Columbia, S.C; JOE £MO?a) has 
moved from Corpus Christi to St. Chaiies, Mo. — 
so he's sucking with the Litany; JOHN 
O'CONNOR is with the Main Line PWpcr 
Products Co. in Houston, Tex.; and' BILL 
^fcCORMACK has emigrated from Hagerstown, 
Md. to Cincinnati. Military orders have given 
Father WILFRED A. MENARD CSC an APO 
San Fr:indxo address; Cmdr. JOSEPH T. 
KOSNIK an FPO New York posting aboard the 
USS Essex; VENTURA GO?^ZALEZ a New 
York .APO since he*s stationed at Tcrejon AFB 
and JACK .ALEXANDER a tour of duty in the 
nation's capital. 
FALL GUY 

Now that autumn brings football and many of 
you back to South Bend for a game or more, 
give us a call when you're here so we can get 
together with you and toast another Irish victory. 
— JACK MILES, Secretary 

1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 Rolling Hills Rd., Clifton, NJ . 07013 
1949 
lEO I. WESIEY 155 Driftwood Lane, Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
Fourteen-carat gold in the form of yellow cards continues to grace my mailbox on Drift­wood I.ane. Case in point — news note via yellow card that EDWARD E. EVERLY and Miss Vickie J. Sclmykr were married Dec. 17 at Long Beach, Calif. Ed wishes all to notice this new address which is 5531 Rolanda Ave., Long Beach 90815. Our congratulations to you both. 
CARL APONE checked in on the Pittsburgh Press 
letterhead to *'bloW the horns for some band members who have done very well in their chosen careers. 194S-1952 bandsmen would be proud of them — Totty and Seymour." 
Cari tells me that JACK TOTTY is now Father Tott>' and rccentiy said Mass in Httsbuigh on a 
household hints, "wife-savers" and anything else directed at the women readers. 
Since the Farmers' Almanac is not sold directly to its readers, but is distributed by large busin«ses as gifts to their customers, Ray has recently introduced the American Farm, and Home Almanac for sale in pocketbook form. The busy edi­tor has also published the Farmers' Almanac Cookbook and The Best from the Farmers' Almanac, a hard­bound collection of almanac wisdom. Any Alunmi with bits of Americana to contribute can write to 650 Main St., Lewiston, Me. where Ray, Ann and the five future Geiger phUoms reside and peruse all almanac mail. 
^HMt vist out of Florida. He will be a. cliaplain for several collies near Miami. Father Jack \vas a drum major in the old da^-s. Carl adds that *'%vhile doing a story I bumped into STAN SEYMOUR who was recently made assistant to the dean at Duquesnc XJ. Stan was a saxophonist in VIC DeSWfOX's orchestra in addition to his band duties." In his own behalf we learn tliat Carl is now tnu^c editor of tlie Pittsburgh Press, docs some free-lance writing, and currently has an article, "Nuns of the Twentieth Century," as the cover story of the July issue of Extension magazine. Well done, Carl, and thanks for all the data. 
Anybody need money? — in a hunr? Tell you what I'm gonna do. I'll put you in "touch" (poxdon the expression) with a *49cr who is a bank president — HAROLD HOFFER. Received a dandy litde note (you'll pardon, again) from Harold acknowledging PETE KERNAN's re­minder letter and advising that he, Harold, joined the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. as a bank examiner light after graduaUon and worked with them for five years. Thereupon he took a position as cashier at the Excliangc Bank of Wakanisa, Ind. Now he is boss, the president. He has one M>n who is a student at Nortliwood Institute, Midland, Mich, and another son, II years old. To quote Harold, "It is still a tlirill to tour the campus even tliough it is only 30 mUcs away." Hm-m. Seems I recall Harold knocking off a 97 in "Mone>- and Banking" — but I thought he was kidding. 
Now witli tlic money you just borrowed from 
Harold drive out to Elkhart to see GEORGE 
TERLEP who is \'ice-president of the Sfcjiinc 
Corp., manufacturer of mobile homes and travel 
trailers. When not talking trailers, George likely 
will tell you about his five children — from 
C>-nthia 18 down to Timmy who is two. Or 
perhaps his coaching da>-s at St. Thomas' — or 
the 69 he shot at the Elcona Countr>' Club — 
or the numerous drives he's led and aided in 
nmning in Elkliart, not to mention Challenges 
I and II for liotrc Dame. 
GEORGE SCHROEDER came through bril­liantly with a detailed letter advising that he, too, is married. He boasts of five children from 16-year-oId Steve to Karen age four. Of Steve, George saj-s, "my oldest son HHI be entering Notre Dame in two years, God willing. He plays football and needless to say I'll be vcr>' proud if. . . . " All the way Ste\-e, baby! George has been piactidng law in Ottawa, Ohio since 1949 and is now president of the Putnam Count}' Bar Aasn. and currently is in his 15th year as a director of the Cluimbcr of Commerce. Was a prosecuting attorney from 1956-19&4 but now handles most of the defense work in the county for insurance companies and corporations. 
Some short shots on some big shots. JAMES 
J. BYRNE has been named prcadent of Warner Slimwear wiiilc also being elected vice-president of the Boys' Club of Bloomfield Board of Direc­tors. He will lead the board in their goal of building a complete Bo>3' Club facility in 1967 to serve the town's 10,000 school age children. JOHN HOLLOWAY lias been named develop­ment sdentist at B- F, Goodrich Chemical Co. Dr. GEORGE E. MAHA has received an ap­pointment to the medical research staff of Mcrci, Sharp and Dolimc research labs. Like to travel? Check tliis. JOHN D. ZEKAN and wife, Dolores, left for a visit to relatives in Germany. Our correspondent tells us, "After a stay in Munidi and Oberammexgau they will tour other countries and will spend some time in Paris and Southern France as the guests of a group of French archi­tects." Not bad! Jack, be back by '69? 
"Father JOE HIPP is presently trying to establish a foundation at Gannon College," is tlic way one of my informants worded a memo to me. In the same note, next paragraph came the word, "LEWIS SHIOLENO has been named vice-president at Eric Technological products.*' If Eric Tech. products is in Erie, Pa. which is where Gannon College is located. Father Joe should be having lunch ivith Lew any day now. 
I'm out of space — not material — for this writing. But I only have enough for part of the next issue. Drop a postcard to mc — any kind of a note will do. Badin Hall dientele par­ticulariy welcome. 
Next issue features TOM GARGAN's long letter, thanks, Tom, TOM FRANCIS, BILL LYMAN, CHARLES LIENHART, Bro. ELI PELCHAT, FRANK SULLIVAN, Dr. ED SIMMONS and others. Tune in! 
R^ards to all. 
— LEO WESLEY, Secretary 

1950 
JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 Monserrate St., CoralGables.Fla. 33146 
By the time this issue is off the press the foot­
ball • season will be here. In between cheers or 
commercials drop me a line for some news of 
you and >-our family. Some daim no yellow post­
card was in their January-Fcbruarj- issue of the 
ALUMNUS. 
Since FRANK BIGGERT could not find a 
yellow card he dipped a one inch by one inch 
yellow card to his letter. I collect all sizes. 
Frank is the headng, ventilating and air-con­
ditioning engineer for the Ohio Bell Telephone 
Co. in Columbus, O. Since marr>ing Antoinette 
Slone (College of New Rochclle) they have lived 
in tlic Columbus area. They have five daughters 
and four sons ranging from fourteen to two and a 
half >-cars of age. Frank has been active in de­
signs of shopping centers and community educa­
tional and recreational centers and the like for 
fallout protection as a fallout shelter anal>-st, and 
has won AIA prizes. He did not send mc his 
weight so I do not know if he still is good 
tackle material or not. BILL EGGERS and his 
family have moved from the St- Louis Notre 
Dame Club to tlie Chicago Cltb, residing at 
105 East Maple, Hinsdale, HI. He is now as­
sistant manager, industrial sales, Lamson and 
Sessions. Shirl and BILL KENNEDY and Pat 
and HUGH MULLIGAN welcomed the Eggerses 
to the U7ndy City area at a dinner. 
Marilyn and TOM MORAN and daughters Nancy, Barbara, Janice and Meghan (twelve to seven) reside at 415 Edgett St., Newark, N,J. Tom is sales representative for National Can Corp. He would like to iicar from "that old gang of mine" on the fourth floor of St. Ed's, ^fona and RAY McGRATH arc at 533 Banta St., Ridgewood, N.J., with six lovely children, two bo)^, four girls. Ray received his Juris Doctor from Lo>-ola (Chicago) in '62 and became a member of the Illinois Bar. He was transferred by Shell Oil Co. to the New York headquarters and now' can be reached through Shell Oil's New Orleans office since July ]. Elaine and AUGGIE GENTILUCCI and their children were at the Ocean Randi Villas, Pompano Beach, Fla. on vacation. They reside at 345 Linden Ave., Wood­bury Hghts., N.J. Auggie's brother Richard graduates from Notre Dame next June. RON MYRTER ended his bachelorhood da>s last spring manning Carole Ann Shupc of Springfield, Va. He remains in the home office legal department of Insurance Co. of North America in Phila­ddphia. Pat and JOHN TUITE passed through on the way to Trinidad for a travel agents' con­vention. John owns several pharmades in Storrs, Conn. (U. of Connecticut). 
Margaret and DICK BRODEUR and Mary Margaret, eight, and Richie, fii*c, \-acationcd at Miami Beach while Margaret \isitcd her old school grounds at Barry College. Dick asked about DICK McGOLDRICK (now president of Hand Schumacher's, Boston), BOB SCHLOSSER and PHIL DELANEY and others. Dick Brodeur has the Labrj'-Brodeur Co., food brokers, in Jacksomille. In the Jacksomille ND Club he sees JERRY JOHNSON (Johnson Smice Con­trol) and DICK REPPER (district manager. Southern Bell Telephone) and Father Frank ^fouch (CHARLIE MOUCH's brother), BOB RAYMOND (Motorob distributor). JIM FRITCH visits him occasionally from his American Furniture Co., Batcsvil/e, Ind. Dr. LOU HALEY passed tlirough Miami while I was on \'acation in Mexico (recommended trip these days). JOSEPH A. DOORLEY Jr., mayor of the dty of Providence, R.I., delivered the main address at the dedication ceremonies of the Fox Point Hurricane Barrier. LOU CIESIELSKI received the St. George Medal for outstanding service to youth in the Boy Scouts of America. Lou, who works with the Cub Scouts of St. Adalbert's Parish in South Bend, rccdved the medal from the Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, DD, Bishop of Fort Wa>-ne-South Bend. And my old friend WALT MURPHY has been appointed the chairman of the depart­ment of politics, Princeton U. effective last July 
1. He is serving as the Ford Foundation research professor in governmental affairs and is a spe­cialist in American la^v, especially judicial de­cision-making and the Supreme Court. 
Best n^ards to c\-erj-one and please let me hear from you or your wives. 
— JOHN "SPARKY" THORNTON, Prcs. 
1951 
JAMES JENNINGS Borg-Warner Corp. 200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, 111. 60604 
My apologies for not having space reserved for 
a small reunion after the Army game. The Alumni 
Office had our request before the REUNION 
WEEKEND was over but they had too many 
earlier requests dating back to last fall. There­
fore, we have already put in a bid for 1967. 
The golf outing of the Chicago Club was held 
August 1 and the Class of 1951 was well rep­
resented in its management. JOE RIGALI was 
co-chairman and did an outstanding job. Joe 
lives at 628 Wesley in Oak Park, 111. with his 
spouse Mary Jean and the four little Rigalis. 
J. J. b 12, and Billy and Julie fit in bct^rtrcn Iiim and Jeanne, 3. Joe is with DaPrato Studios, a supplier of church goods. Joe is largely re­sponsible for starting our seminar group (some­times irreverently termed the "poker dub") after the Reunion in 1956. After 10 years, this group still holds its seminars — with the poker serving to refresh our minds regarding permutations and combinations — on the third TTiursday of every month. The ceiling on losses which has alwa>s been maintained lias kept our group therapy at a reasonable lc\*d. If any of our dassmates visit Chicago on the third Thursday of the month and would be interested in a deep philosoplucal dis­cussion (would you believe a discussion as to whether "academic cvccKcncc" helps the quarter­back when it is fourth do\vn on the three-j-ard line?), please call Joe (383-5152) or me (323-0196) to see where the meeting will be held that evening. 
JIM LaCESA and DICK GARRITY were also working on the committee. Jim makes coil winders and otlicr machines under the name of LaCesa Engineering Corp. in Chicago, and re­sides with his roommate Irene at 7827 W. North Ave., in River Forest, III. They have two chil­dren— Joseph, 7, and Mar>- Margaret, 1. We notice that Jim was unable to lug a coil 'winder, which is about as large as a lathe, to the golf outing to be given avrxy as a prize and, there­fore, he substituted golf balls for the machine. 
Dick Canity lives with his parents at 6416 N. Leavitt, Chicago, III., 60645. Dick has been a project engineer with International Harvester in the heavy equipment and government work areas at ^lelrose Park and, in July, moved out to the Research Center which Harvester maintains in Hinsdale. Dick is sull relying on his phonograph, which he can shut off at will, and his hot water bottle; tliat is, he is still single. Dick invites the wives who read this column to send along pictures (with tlic supporting finandal data) of any beautiful, ridi young widows in their \idnity. 
JACK BOWLBY who is with Royal Globe In­surance has also worked very hard on tlic golf outing for the hst two years. Jack and his wife, JoAnn, live at 541 N. Slone, LaGrangc Park, III. The Bowlbys have five children, ages 14 thru 7. Steve is the oldest and his sisters — Ann, Mary and Jean — come between him and young Steve. 
PHIL FACCENDA was helping out. His wife and Jo.\nn Bowiby came out to help sell raffle tickets. Katliy Faccenda is fairly busy wiUi the four girls; the oldest, Mary Beth, is 5, Her sisters are Susan, Kathy and Peggy and they live at 1550 Ogden Ave. in LaGrangc Piirk, 111. If you see Kathy leaving the Northwestern game before the final gun, you'll know she went to get the fifth sister. Tliat is tlie only event which could make her leave before the end of the game. 
JACK MULDOON played golf at the outing but cvidendy did not break 80 as he did not look too happj-. Jack practices Uw at 105 W. Adams St. in Chicago, and lives witli his wUc, Rose­mary, at 116 N. Austin Blvd. in Oak Park, III. There are five little Muldoons ranging from John, 8, down to Kevin V/z. In between are Micliael, Mary and Sheila. 
We hoped BOB CLEMENCY could come down from Milwaukee for this event but he did not make it. Bob is engaged in the practice of patent law with tlie firm of Wheeler, Wheeler, House and Clemenc>-. Bob and Mary live at I80I0 Royal Crest Drive in Brookfield, Wis. Their offspring range from an eighth-grader down to a three-year old. The children are Robbie, Mary, John, Katie and Ann. Bob still gets do\%-n to 
the seminars on occasion when work permits. He makes a special effort in the summer wlien the group usually plays nine holes before meeting at 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 

somebody's liouse. We have several other class­mates in and around Milu'aukcc and will try to get a line oa them for the next issue. 
Somebody asked CHUCK O'DONNELL it he thought cvcrj'body turned in honest scores at the golf outing, and he replied by sending over a sack of fertilizer for a door prize. Chuck is with Sears and is assistant to the manager of catalogue distribution. 
— JIM JENNINGS, Secretary 

1952 HARRY L. BUCH 600 Board of Trade BIdg., Wheeling, W. Va. 26000 
1953 
WALTER F. "BUD" STUHLDREHER 
11006 Jean Rd. S.E. Huntsville, Ala. 35803 
Well, this starts a new scribe of our Class news: after sLx years DAVE has turned the job over to yours truly and I sliall do well to keep the column as well as he. I'm sure >'ou all join with me in thanking h:m for the Hnc job he did. 
As I see it, the main purpose of this column is to keep our classmates tnfonncd about each other, our families, jobs; in short, our way through life. Since I cannot know but a small portion of these events, it folIoH's that you m-st let me know about them. I understand that perhaps some of you feci funny about wTiting in con­cerning yourself. However, if cver>'one felt this way it would make for a mighty* short column. So, as they used to say in the Nav>* many long years ago: Now hear this — if you want to read about your friends, %v'riie in about yourself! And even better, also add some news about our class­mates. 
My tvvin brother BILL was supposed to send me some neu-s concerning the many members of our Class who reside in Indiana: Oh, Bill, where are >-ou? I can report that CHUCK STIM­MING was transferred from Indianapolis to New York this year by AT&T and is no^^• living in Hillside, N.J. Ch'!ck is married and has a daugh­ter. I m>"sclf came down here from Indianapolis last year wth IBM, accompanied by my wife, two daughters and son. (Our IBM Sportsman's Club had FRANK LEAHY as our fall speaker on Aug. 27.) JACK SCHAFER, no\v living in Co­lumbus, O. and employed by GE, had twins re­cently. How about writing in and telling us about it. Jack? 
Speaking abo:it writing in, here are some others r d like to here from: DON SULLIVAN, up in Massachusetts; PAT RILEY, in Northern Cnli­fomia; JIM KLINK, Detroit; TOM BAKER, New York; RAY SMITH (are >-ou %rt)rking yet, Ray, or still playing tennis?); BILL BARRETT, Chicago; (came across a picture of our old Lyons Hall interhall football team the other week — I believe Bill sent it to tts that Christmas as a very nice Christmas card); RON WONG, Washington, DC. Ron, incidentally, is a lieu­tenant commander in tlic Na\->* supply corps. While in Hawaii, once, I had the pleasure of meeting Ron's parents and had dinner with them. Imagine my surprise when several months later my mother received an Easter orchid from them! Vcrj* thoughtful. There are many others I'd like to hear from and I'm sure many of you feel the same way. Why not drop me a postcard naming them and they will be included in the next column? As long as you are doing that why not include a couple of lines concerning yourself? 
Back to the new re our Class: DON SENICH received his PhD in civil engineering from Io^\•a State U. at Ames on May 28. Nice going. Dr. Senich! SYLVESTER SCHULTE is now with Mag­nolia Plastics, Inc. in Detroit. Sylvester is married and the father of six ranging in age from three 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 
months to eight years. (.And many thanks to 
your father for this news, Sylvester.) PAUL FRY 
has finished a five-year residency in orthopedic 
surgery and is currently engaged in "serx-icc pay­
back time." (I bite, Paul: what is "service pay­
back time"?) The Frys have five sons and expect 
their sbtth child this month. They are living in 
San Rafael, Cal. and speaking of California that 
reminds me of an item I saw in TV Guide two 
weeks ago. BRIAN KELLY is thinking of leav­
ing the Flipper cast. That true, Brian? 
And as long as we're on TV personalities how 
about REGIS PHILBIN? It was qaitc a thrill 
to see you on the "tube" a couple of summers 
ago, Rege, when you filled in on the late show 
for a while. AVliat are you up to now? 
BOB STRALEY has received his master's in 
business administration from Lehigh U. ROGER 
KOHIN, who is an assistant professor of physics 
at Clark U. in ^Vorcester, Mass., has been awarded 
a $36,5(K) research grant by the National Sci­
ence Foundation. It will he used to support his 
work of *'Elcctron Spin Resonance of Radiation-
Damaged Ferroelectrics." Whew! If I even 
spelled that right I think I'm ahead of the game. 
Well, that's about it for thb first column. Let's face it — the next ones will only be as good as you, my fellow classmates, make them. I can only report the news I hear from you. It won't take but a couple of minutes and your friends will certainly appreciate it. (Me, too.) —WALTER "BUD" STUHLDREHER, Secretary 
1954 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 Signal H!ll Blvd., 
E. St. Louis, III. 62203 
Fortunately I am pressed for time, so the complete lack of material for this column is far less depressing than usual. There will be less hectic da>-s, however, and more deadlines. So have a heart and lend a hand. Whatda>'asay? 
Football season is fast approaching and by this printing is probably in full s\«ng. Hope 5*ou didn't miss out on tickets. Remember our Class par­ties are now a regular thing after the first home game of evcrj- season (as long as GENE HENRY and DICK PILGER hang in there, that is). See yo:i soon! 
From Eileen and TOM .XfcKEON (Hi, Eileen) come the glad tidings that on May 24 their second son, James Edward, wtis bom. That makes five in all. Tom informs me tliat JIM HOFF was ordained a priest in 1965 and h now at Marquette High School in Milwaukee. Father Jim was at ND with us in *50 and *51. This past Thanksgiving he celebrated Mass in the Mc-Kcon home. Fr. Jim HofTs dad died in June and our prayers will be appreciated. Jim would love to hear from his old cronies. 
Sharon and GUY iLVCINA also had a blessed event in May. Margaret Marie, their third child (two girls and a fullback) was bom on May 13. HERB AMMERMULLER has recendy been named as office manager at the BrookljTi refinery of the American Sugar Co. Isn't that s%vect? (Ho, ho.) TOM CASSIDY of Peoria won the Democratic nomination for the 18th congressional scat. What's a Democrat? 
Had a great letter from TONY GENOVESE. Tony started a five-year course with us and there­fore graduated in '55. Tony, you may be official­ly '55 but for ALUM.NUS and Reunion purposes you're with tis, where your heart belongs. Tony would like to hear from the "Rusty Knife Gang" 
— P.^UL M.VRRONE, BOB FARNBAUCH, DAN MOTZ, ANDY OVRRAO, BILL OFFUTT, TON*Y ^UNDOLINI, LEON BLANC. FAT ED MADI­G.AN and HARVEY NEWQUIST to name a few. 
To bring you up to date on Tony: after gradu­ating in '55 he attended Princeton on a fellow­ship leaving in '57 with an MFA in architecture. He tlien married the former Lynn Papa and they now have two children (Gregg six and Loren four). In 1S63 Tony went into architectural practice wiUi his partner Herb Maddalene and as a team they have won some national recog­nition: first honorable mention FDR Memorial competition, first honorable mention N.J. World's Fair pavilion, 196i Cardinal Lercaro Liturgical Conference Award and they also were selected to design the altar and setting for the Pope's Mass in Yankee Stadium. 
Tony supplied the following: PAUL MARRONE has five bambinos as well as a doctorate in aero­nautical engineering. TONY LAPASSO is an architect in Chi-toivn. Recently married. Tony has one child now. The BILL OFFUTTS have five children — in Boston. NICK FELLEGRINO 
is an ad-man in N.Y. (I think). ED FLACCO 
is living in N.J. near Tony and BILL VALUS 
is an architect in Connecticut, married with one 
(or two) children. Thanks loads. 
RAY BUBICK has received his master's de­
gree in EE from the U. of Colorado and an ole 
classmate DICK LYON has been promoted to 
assistant director of the petroleum—new investments 
engineering division at Esso Research and Engi­
neering Co. JOHN MERTENS has joined the 
staff of Contractor News and will serve as district 
manager to the New York temtory. H. ALLAN 
KELLY of Lindsay, Ohio was appointed sales­
man for the state of Ohio by the Lindsay Com­
municadons Dtv. of Anaconda Wire and Cable. 
And lastly, JOHN DASEK has been named le­
cipient of the first national an^ird for the design 
of a community fallout shelter by the AIA and 
the Defense Dept. 
See you at the Class after-game party, Sept. 24, 
after the Purdue game, in 221 B Engineering 
Building. 
So what else is new?? 
— ^aL T BEAUDINE, Secretary 

1955 
PAUL FULLMER 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago, III. 60645 
Hats off to RUSS TOOHEY, %Ao is the 
proud father of tmn boys. Matt and Mike. &Iany 
thought Russ was a member of GEORGE 
MEYERS' hard guy bachelor club, but he 
finally saw the light. Now, as godfather BOB 
"MOOSE" WING puts it, "Russ accomplished 
in two years what it took me «x years to do!" 
I ran into Russ in the parking lot of the local 
liquor store (where else?) as he *vas stocking up 
for the christening party. No hint of a multiple 
birth had been given until the doctor walked out 
and asked Russ, "What would you think about 
twins?" After they scraped him up off the floor 
he was heard to murmur, *'Do I have a choice?" 
I think the Tooheys had better huddle with 
MARTY CULHANE who has three sets of male 
twins. Marty might sell his services as an ad­
visor. 

TON'Y BELMONT has received his >L\T degree in English from Bro\%Ti U. HOWIE HART has been promoted to assistant manager for the Celo­tcx Corp. here in Chicago. In the last column I menUoncd that FRANK MAIER had joined the stair of the Chicago DaUy News. I neglected to add that BILL CLEMENTS also is a reporter at the News. Those affluent members of the Class who can pick up channel 32 can watch Frank and Bill report from the city room on the sta­tion's unique connection to the newspaper. Frank lives at 1714 £. ^tlyfair Rd., Arlington Heights; Bill at 139 Gale Ave., Ri\-cr Forest. 
As far as I know JIM SIEGER is the fint member of the Class to land an Emmy award. Jim wrote and produced a documentary series called "I See Chic^o" and one of tfie seg­ments, "The Revolution in Religion," won the national TV award. Jim now is executive pro­ducer of documentaries for station WBBM-TV here in Chicago. He received his master's in mouon picture writing at USC and then made stops in New YoHc, I^ttsbuigh and Cleveland before coming to Chicago. If he doesn't lay off the bread and butter^ though, he's going to be as big OS his journalism buddies, TO) t BOSSE and JOE AL\DIGAN. We writers just like to eat and drink while we meditate. 
Speaking of journalism classmates, D.WE COHEN has accepted a position with the new tri­faith board of the Chicago Conference on Reli­gion and Race designed to open new employ­ment opportunides to the underprivileged. Dave will be in the research and evaluation section. L.-\RRY BREHL, the old Scholastic editor who probably wouldn't recognize the publication now, recently moved from I^ttsbtirgli to 1808 Wendall Ave., Lima, Ohio. 
On the tntemadonal front, LEON St. PIERRE just reported in from McGitt U. In Montreal. Dr. S.^LVADOR PEREZ now is seeing patients at 48 Malaga St., Torrimar, Bayamon, Puerto Rico. Also, Dr. ART BEVACQUA now is reading medical journals at 1 Oakridge PI., East-Chester, N.Y. 
Lt. Cmdr. PAUL KRIENKE, who was spotted by Father JOE O'DONNELL CSC in sunny California, can be reached at VP-31 NAS North Island, San Diego. Incidentally, Father Joe wrote that he saw lawyer BERT METZGER and his wife, Joan, in Seattle. They are coordinators for 
CFM in the Northwest. 
Newcomers, to Chicago are AL STARSH.-\.K 

(6M5 Oglesby) and BOB RUSSELL, who wheels 
and deals with A. G. Becker & Co. JIM TWOHY 
made the big move from Tennessee to Sacramento 
(2265-C Ransom). 
DICK CONNELLY responded to our announce­

ment on the adopdon of our little daughter, 
}hIonica, by penning a joint note with wife, 
Carolyn: *'Wc secured same model and st^'Hng as 
}x«u on June 3." JIM STEVENS and his ^vifc 
also adopted a litde daughter, Lisa Anne. 
News from the P.O. —NORB REINER, 6632 

Ku-kley Ave., McLean, Va.; DICK DONAHUE, 
1016 Highhind Ave., Lafayette, Ind.; D.AVE 
GALLAGHER, 6103 Vernon Terrace, Alexandria, 
Va.; ED FOX, 3227 Pontiac St., LaCresccnta, 
Calif.; Dr. TON^ MICALE, 314 Bcndermcrc 
Ave., Intcrbkcn, N.J.; P.\T KEARNS, 1039 Cove 
St.. Ventura, CaliL; JAY LAUE, 803 Mira Vista 
Drive, S.E., Hunts^ille, Ala.; ED REILLY, 2657 
Jefferson Drive, S.E., Grand Rapids; Lt. Cmdr. 
HUGO HARDT, 12200 Palm Springs Ave., N.E., 
Aibuqucrquc; and LARRY BUCKLEY, 27 Horse-
show Dr., Northport, Long Island, N.Y. 
MIKE WARD saj-s lliat Father JOHN JONES 

now is stationed at St. Edward's in Elgin, 111. 
TOM DORWIN has been named San Francisco 
district sales manager by Evinrude Motors. 
Received the "letter of the c>"cle" from BILL 

CLUSSERATH (8908 S. 41st St., Tacoma) who 
pro\^ded additional background on PAUL HAUH-
NAR's plight in the Mizo Hills of India. I wrote 
at some length about this in the last column. 
After graduating with us Paul relumed to India 
and worked for the government. He left govern­
ment service in 1964 and started a travel service 
and daily newspaper in his home town. In ^farch 
of this year internal revolution broke out and 
the tOHTi of Aijal «as destroyed and 10,000 peo­
ple still are finding it difficult to scrape out a 
bare existence. I have written several people in 
Congress and it seems almost impossible to divert 
foreign aid funds to those poor people in the 
^(izo Hills area. Therefore, it is best to send 
what donations you can to Paul, who is a mem­
ber of the citizens' committee trying to restore 
some order. For safety's sake, send the money 
to Paul through tlie First National Cit>* Bank of 
New York to the Calcutta Branch. Paul is secre­
tary of the Aijal Citizens' Committee. 
Bill adds that Paul has four boy's and tivo 

girls. Two of these boys are studying for tlie 
priesthood (his family was already started when 
he came to ND). Paul's home address is Kuli­
kaivn, Aijal, Mizo District, .Assam, India. Bill 
says that on the Tacoma front Kay, Mike, Gary, 
Janice and Patty keep his \rifc. Barb, pretty 
busy. He had just talked to BOB >L\LLON, 
who was elected president of the Washington 
State Car Dealers Assn., and TOM MAY, who 
is now president of the Western W^ashington ND 
Club. 
Incidentally, quite a few '55eis have scr\-ed as presidents of their local alumni clubs in recent years —BOB GERVAIS, Los Angeles; AL KAE­LIN, Sacramento; DICK HAIRSINE, Dcbware: DON FREUND, McHcnry County (III.); BOB aAFFARELLi, Southern Cook County (111.): BILL RICHARDSON, Central New Jerecy; DICK Mc-COR^HCK, Erie; JOE ORSO, Williamsport; ED PREIN, Grand Rapids and Western Michigan; JOHN CUDDY, Central New York; ^^KE HOFFilAN, Columbus; LEO HAWK, North­western Ohio; TOM MAGILL, Lehigh Valley (Pa.); JOHN POWERS, Lansing (Mich.); and JOHN ROGERS, Dallas. And, I certainly want to salute gu>-s like TOM HAYES, DICK BEE­MAN, STEVE REBORA, TOM CAREY, NEAL HALLORAN, JIM GRIFFIN, JERRY BRANS­FIELD and all the other *55ers who helped carry the load when I was president of the Chicaco Club. 
Let's hear from vou, guys!! 
— PAUL FULLMER, Secretary 

1956 
AlVIN D. VITT 
4 Windrush Creek W., St. Louis, Mo. 63141 
Thanks to my "spy" the July-August issue's Class column was possible. Shortly after tlie last ALUMNUS went to press, I received more Re­union ne\\3 from several of you which follows. 
GENE BRENNAN is with Smith, Barney & Co. and lives in Downers Grove, 111.; BILL BROU­CEK is with The First National Bant of De­
troit; PHIL CENEDELL-A has his owa business wiiich manufactures wooden pallets and card­board boxes in Fredonia, N.Y.; DICK CLARK, TOM WAGE^L^N and PETE FOY all drove in from Chicago Saturday morning and returned Sunday after Mass; DAVE COLLINS U a cor­porate attorney with the pharmaceutical firm, Johnson & Johnson; JOHN CORBETT is selling stocks and bonds; ED COSGROVE and GENE O'CONNOR Iiavc started their own law firm in Buffalo, N.Y.J GORDON DiRENZO attended the Population Seminar prior to the Alumni fcs­tiviUcs; JOHN ENGLER is with Merrill, Lynch in Chicago; JOHN GSCHWIND is with a manufacturing firm in Applcton, Wis.; BOB SIMKINS b also in Applcton and is the man­ager of a ivholcsalc drug company; TOM HUB­BARD operates the candy-striped buses in Litch­field, Conn.; JOHN KEG.\LY is selling insur­ance in Chicago; JOE KELLY is li\*ing in Ypsilanli, Mich, and has given up teaching for another career; JOHN KENNEDY is ^vith a law firm in Manhattan; LARRY KENNEDY is a loan officer with The First National Bank of St. Paul, Minn.; MIKE KILEY is now a judge in Marion, Ind. 
G.AVIN KING has his o%\'n la^v practice in Tulsa; JIM KREBS is in the mongage, loan and real istatc field in Louis\'ilIe, Ky.; PAUL La-FRENIERE is with the C.P.A. firm Ernst & Ernst in Marquette, Mich.; BOB McGOLDRICK is selling insurance in West Hartford, Conn.; JIM MASSEY is teaching engineering at Notre Dame; BILL ^LATTHEWS is with Eastman Kodak in Rochester, N.Y.; JOE ^^LLER is a dentist in Coming, N.Y.; JIM MENSE is in the insurance field in Hamilton, O.; DON MOSER owns a leather tannery* in New Albany, Ind.; JOE O'CONNOR is an obstetrician in E\-anston, 111.; DICK PRATHER is a pilot with American Airlines and is stationed in Naslmlle, Tenn.; DAN QUIGLEY lias a home construction company in Hempstead, N.Y.; JERRY RIGSBY is with Dcico Batteries in Anderson, Ind; DENNIS RYAN has his own law firm in Oklahoma Cit>'; JIM SCHUE72 sells earth moving equipment in Wichita Falls, Tex.; DON SNIEGOWSKI is teaching at Notre Dame; HAL SPENCER is with Lehman Brothers in New York; ED SPENGEMAN is with Mobil Oil Co. and lives in Dumont, ^^.J.; CONNELL TRIMBER is an eye doctor in Bowie, Md.; AL VIROSTEK drove in on Thursday from Washington, D.C.; and BOB WELCH is in the retail gasoline busi­ness in Gar>', Ind. 
On Saturday, PAUL NOLAND, ifIKE MOONEY, TONY CASTORINA, TOM CAP­LET. DON MOSER, MOOSE PATZ, DAVE COLLINS, DAN QUIGLEY, FRANK TIGHE and sc\'cral others played softball. On the golf course were JIM RA.MM, JERRY MASSEY, BILL ENGLE, LEO LINBECK (who won the driving contest and also had tlic low score on Friday) and BILL STOTZER (who won the two-day tournament in which all Alumni classes participated). RAY LEMEK was seen chatting with JOHN FANNON and DON SCHAEFER. Ray is leaving football and is planning to live in Massachusetts. 
The featured speaker at the Class Dinner on Friday night was JERRY NL\SSEY who was very clever in his inidal remarks and then settled down to a serious address on the academic future of Notre Dome. Others on the program, wiiich DO.N S.VIEGOWSKI so very ably handled as Master of Ceremonies, were BILL WARREN, JOE BILL and JOHN FANNON. This was really tlie highlight of the weekend for the Class itself and on Saturday the Alumni Dinner was most impressive with Father Hcsbursh's speech. On Saturday morning, the priests who con-celebrated tlie Mass were TOM CHAMBERS CSC, JIM O'BRIEN, ^^KE MOONEY OFM and DAVE MAX. Father JIM WATSON had to leave very early Saturday morning and was unable to be present for the Class Mass. 
Other news: NICK SCHMELZER has been assigned as district manager of the noithwestem district of Hyland Laboratories. Capt. JOSEPH YAEGER is a pilot with the 82nd Fighter Inter­ceptor squadron which recently deployed to Naha AB, Okinaxra. BOB ROBISON has joined Koontz-Wagner Electric Co., Inc. as production manager in the manufacturing division. CHARLES CUMMISKEY has been cle\-atcd to the post of acting vice-president, dean of faculties at St. Mary's U. He is also chairman of the chemistry department and will become vice-president effec­tive June I, 1967. Capt. HENRY KIRKEN­DALL Jr. has completed the orientation course for officers of the US Air Force Medical Service at Gunther AFB, Ala.» where he studied tlie 
administration of Air Force medical service pro­
grams. He is now assigned to hormg AFB, 
Maine. 
DON BROPHY has been named an assistant 
editor of Paulist Press in New York where his 
duties will be focused on the Dcus Book publi­
cations, the paperback line of PauIisC. PAUL 
KING is the new director of the investment 
department in the main offices of the K of C 
where it is his responsibility to sec that some 
$185 million of insurance funds the order has in 
stocks and bonds provides a safe and adequate 
return. JIM STIEVATER lias been appointed 
controller of tlie Rapids-Standard Co., Inc. of 
Grand Rapids. Rev. GEORGE WEBER, MM 
(MA '56) has returned to Mar^knoll, N.Y. where 
he has been named local superior of the Mar>-­
knoU Fathers and rector of the major scminar>-. 
He had previously been engaged in establishing 
a training school for lay leaders and catechists 
in the diocese of Shin>-anga, Tanzania. JOHN 
XLVNION has been elected a precinct committee­
man in Peoria. JIM PRICE (I83I Alcoy Road-
Cleveland) is teacliing in East Cleveland. This 
summer Jim has been visiting various Head Start 
cbsses and will also be serving as consultant to 
the resident camp for retarded in Cu>-ahoga 
County. JOHN CYWINSKI (1702 Wilshire, 
Arlington Heights, 111.) has returned with his 
family from tlie Navy to open practice in pe­
diatrics at 3200 Dempster St., Des Plaincs, IH. 
— AL VITT, Secretary 

1957 
JOHN P. McMEEL 30 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10017 
For those lucky enough to obtain tickets, a 
Class reunion will be held again this year after 
the Army game. As last year, we will have a 
cocktail party held on campus immediately after 
the game for you, your wives and friends. We 
do not have a definite location yet, but an an­
nounfrcment will be made over the PA s>'stem 
during the game. 
BILL BELL has just returned from Honolulu 
last June v*here he reports that superb treatment 
was shown tliem by Winifred and GROVER 
KAAL Grovcr is the new dtrector-in-chicf for 
Procter & Gamble for all of tlie Hawaiian 
Islands. The Kams arc parents to two. ALBERT 
K. LUM is still "baching" it and also came across vrith the real "Aloha." Al is a professor of English at the focal university in Honolulu and in June was touring Europe. LARRY COOK delivered his own third child in May. TOM NOWAK and Carol Miller called it "Mr. & Mrs." on June 25 in Milwaukee. Bill is leaving the National Institute of Health in Washington, D.C. and returning to Johns Hopkins and the dept. of medicine. Tlianks for the news. Bill, and lots of luck. Also it may be added that it is Dr. & Dr. WILLIAM R. BELL. Gads, all those brains and all that mone>'. Where vs-as DOYLE left out? 
A real rouser from BOB DESMOND with "Go Irish Go" chants v\ritten all over the envelope. Dr, Bob reports that all was well in sunny Santa Rosa, Calif, tliat is, until he was 
"seductcd" into the blessed army in March of '66. During his six weeks of basic he stayed with JACK SOUCY who v*-as in practice in internal medicine at Cleburne, Tex. Jack will join the Public Health program come October. Jack is father to a brand-new bo>- who un­fortunately looks like Soucy. Dr. Bob goes on to relate that while at Ft, Sam Houston JIM QUINN was present taking a course in atomic fallout. Bob casually remarks that Jim looks both healthy and plump as usual. TOM O'MALLEY was drafted after an ophthalmology residency and was also resting at Ft. Sam. Bob and his v*ife and three li'l ones arc now contentedly stationed in Vaihirigcn, Germany at a base 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OCTOBER 

dispensary — being a high class pill pusher. They arc looking forv**ard to visiting RON LORENZINE in Italy during the thrcc-ycar stay. 
BURT LESH reports that he is currenUy with the S-3 of the 1st Bn (Airborne) in Vietnam. Nice planning, Bert. He has about a year to go and the war has left with him some solid im­pressions, especially llic need to train our >-oung men to make sound decbions. Prior to Vietnam he u'as able to complete his master's degree at the U. of Delaware in political science. Our prayers and best to Capl. Bert. TOM SHEHAX has been appointed assistant manager of Con­necticut General Life in Kansas Cit>-. JOE CARBON I has been elected an zissistant treasurer ol the First Pcnns>'lvania Banking and Trust Co. LARRY MOR.-\N is now representative for Elanco in the eastern states and will be h'viiig in Harrisonburg, Va. ED BURNS has received his master's degree in business administration from the U. of Akron and MATTHEW SLANA is in Napcrville, 111. uith the electronic switching systems of Bell Telephone Labs. DENNY TROESTER has been blessed with his first son and goes on to tell us that DICK WALSH, LOU BOSCOE, WALT FISHER and DAN KELLY arc all located in Detroit and work for the CPA finn of Touche, Bailey, Ross & Smart. 
LOU LONCARIC is still "familj-ing" it in Atlanta with E. F. Hutton. PETE SHAGENA is a partner u*ith Nolwood Chemical in Detroit, PAT CONWAY Willi Control Data in Min­neapolis, TOM JEWEL among the potential "Ernie P>'les" with the South Bend Tribune. BOB BOGGS is in Detroit with General Motors. TOM MAUS is the big clothing merchant of Fort Lauderdale and has enough business in his own family with five wee ones. CHUCK O'NEIL is peddling insurance in Kansas City while father­ing thrre. FR.\NK BROPHY is slaving as a bachelor (I'm sick) in Tokyo with Ford Motor. DON HANEY almost runs Lear in Grand Rapids %vhile FRANK STANIZAK is called the "Joe Nuehoir* of Grand Rapids tn the meat business. 
D. BILL GAUL, the father of twio, is admin­btrative assistant to EdiUi Green, D. of Port­land, Ore. and last, but definitely not least, is JOHN HAMMETT who became the father of twin boys in July past. CONGR.\TS! 
DICK LEITTEN has moved from Rochester, 

N.Y. to Hamburg, N.Y., JIM MILOTA from Arlington Heights to Wilmington, Ohio, Dr. BOB LALOR from Crownpoint, N.NL to Apalachin, N.Y., Dr. DON SCHRANDT from Akron, O. to Denver, Colo., Dr. JAMES QUINN from JacJtsonwlIc, Fla. to Annapolb, Md., JOHN ROBINSON from Jcssclton, North Borneo to Bangkok, Thailand with Esso Standard Limited, D.WE McFADDEN from Rockficld, Wb. to Freeport, III., PETE LARKIN to New Haven, Conn, from Dalhs, Tex., LARRY iHCHAEL from St. Louis to Fairport, Dr. BILL HOLLAND from Indianapotb to Arlington, Va.. BRUNO ROMEO from Burbank to Cincinnati, BURKE CUENY from Auburn Heights to Dcer­ficld, III., JOHN DURBIN from Seattle to Chariotte, JOE JOYCE from Cincinnati to Omaha, JAMES FLUHR from Lubbock to Vic­tor\illc, CaliL 
I hope all the above movers and others will show a little class Io>~aIty and drop us a note regarding activities. It certainly bn't asking much and would make this job a little easier as well as ihcmse'vcs a little more appreciated. 
JACK SOUCY rela>3 the news that he b happy, finally saw the light and joined the human race consbttng of happy husbands. Jack also reports that BOB GRIFFIN was married on that crazy day of Apr. 16 tn Ei-ansvillc, Ind. Bob married one Judy Eisterhold. Jack goes on to tell us about BOB DESMOND which has been recorded earlier. It's great to be popular bn't it. Bob? Or do wc just like to see others sufTer? TOM DIETER was also married in Evansville, last Oc­tober. (Bachelors, stay out of that town.) Also. Jack and hb bride were cxiiecting their first U'l one in June. Thanks, Jack, you have been a real stalu-art. It's appreciated. 
— JOHN McMEEL, Secretary 

1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 
1709 Indiana Ave-, LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
The news for thb issue b rather sparse, gentle­men! Let us do better next time. That which we have to report b as follows: 
BILL RICKEY has been named offensive line coach at Colorado State U. effective July 1, 1966. At the time of hb appointment. Bill was head football coach at Mullen High School, Fort Logan, Colo, wlicre he had won the Denver Parochial and Colorado Catholic Championships for two consecutive years. Bill, who has coached previously at East Paterson, N.J. High, and at Notre Dame High in Salt Lake City, has in eight years of coaching compiled a record of 54 wins, four losses and three tics. He \va& married to tlie former Miss Barbara Dill, of Trenton, N.J., in 1960, and has one son, Timothy Rockne Hickcy (age 3) with another child expected momentarily. Bill received his M.A. from Wyo­ming U. in 1964. The Hickejs' address is 738 Columbine St., Fort Collins, Colo. 
PHILIP M. MAERSCH writes from Center-port, N.Y. (141 Johnston St.) where he and hb wife, Patty, now reside to report that he re­cently transferred to J. Taylor Finlcy Junior High School and b teaching mathematics. Phil re­ceived his Master of Arts in Teaching degree from Johns Hopkins last June. JOHN M. D.\LY was one of thirty academic and industrial chemists selected to participate in a conference on organic reaction mechanisms at the U. of Vermont in June. CHARLES ARMBRUSTER has earned hb Ph.D. at Washington U. CHARLES 
D. SUSANO Jr. has opened a hw office in Suite 609, Hamilton National Bank BIdg., Knox­ville, Tenn. HAROLD "BUD" ENRIGHT Jr. has received his MBA from the U. of Hawaii and has been promoted to district manager of the education center of IBM in San Francisco. JOHN WOODWORTH received hb MBA recently from the U. of Santa Clara. 
That's the news for now. How about taking five minutes lo drop us a card for use in our next issue. 
— ARTHUR L. ROULE, Jr., Secretary 

1958 Law 
JOHN F. MARCHAL Marchal & Marchal, 
116-118 W. 4th St., Greenville, Ohio 45331 
1959 JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 2680 Lehman Rd., Apt. 42 Cincinnati, Ohio 45204 
JOHN FAZIO is currently living on the West Coast in Southern California at Manhattan Beach. John works in LA for Southern Permanente Serxices, Inc., a part of the Kabcr Foundation Medical Care Entitles, and holds the position of Senior Systems Anal>-st in their Sj-stcms and Elec­tronic Data Processing Dept. John sa>-s PAT KEATING, for whom he was best man four years ago, b in Omaha. Neb. 
Capt. EDWARD A. MEZZAPELLE (ESD Det 9, APO New York, 09633) is stationed with the Air Force in Wiesbaden, Germany (the same base as JOE SCHAEFER). Ed and Alice have two sons. Tommy (VA) and Peter, bom 20 April, all wiling to meet with other alumni during their stay in Europe. LOU KAVANAUGH is in Dayton, Ohio (4209 Barth Lane). Lou scr\-ed two years in the Na\y aboard the USS Midway and then attended the U. of Cincinnati Law School, graduadng in '64. He is with Hollen­camp & Hollencamp (Bob Hollcncamp, Cbss of 
•49 and Law Class of '50) and has become quite a politician, recently being elected a precinct committeeman and a member of the executive committee of the Montgomcr>- Co. Young Re­publicans. Lou further reported that he b still single and looking; and that R. PETER FINKE b now comptroller of the National Foundry in Dayton, Pete has hb CP.-\, a master's degree from Xavicr V., and is ivorking on a Jaw degree from Cincinnati's Chase I.aw School, where he has been No. 1 in hb class. 
JOHN F. CHRISTENSEN JR. b married and lives in Mobile, Ala. (562 Markham Drive). John and Beth have two daughters, Ann and Jeanne. John is now working for J. B. Converse Con­sulting Ensineen in Mobile. BOB YOUNG met hb ^rifc, Sharon, in South Bend in I960 and they were married in 1962 when Bob finbhed grad school. The next three years were spent at Wright-Patterson AFB in Dayton. In Oct., 1964 they moved to I^Crcscent, Minn. Bob was elected mayor of LaCresccnt in Nov., 1965. Bob b in research at the Trane Co. in LaCrosse, Wb. The Youngs have two children, Afarfc (2) and Lba (1). 
TOM TRINLEY, last teen on cvnjHii in and around Sorin Hall, now lives in WilUngboro, N.J. (65 Boxwood Lane] mth his wife, Maureen, and their five children—Katie, Patrick, Beth, Sheila and Tommy. Tom is. a cheuucal engineer for DuPont in their Marshall Lab in Flully, and attends Temple U. studying law. Tom hopes to work in the field of "patents law" whni he finishes with hb degree in two years. 
DUNCAN LA VIGNE a now an account executive with Walston & Co., Inc., 322 N. Broadway, St. Loub, Mo. 63102. TOM Mc-BREEN wns married Sept. 4, 1965 and can now be found at 615 Case Place, Evanston, III. Tom married Sandra Bradshaw from Aurora, HI. and Creighlon U.; Tom b an advertbing representa­tive \rith the Chicago Tribune. Tom sent new3 that CLAY PASCHEN b in Ventura, CaJif., has three children, and b operating a McDonald's hamburger chain. BILL MORENCY and JOE GALVIN work for the Equitable Life Insurance Co. and have offices next door to Tom's at the Tribune Tower. 
Dr. JOHN FOCHTNLAN and Maureen Marun were married Sept. 3 in Oak Piirk, 111. John b still in the Navy, hb ctirrcnt tour of duty being Japan. MARTY KELLY called me the other evening. Marty is now with General Electric and lives here in Cincinnati. KNUTE CAVANAUGH attended St. Loub U. Med School (1959-631, interned at Phihdelphia Gen­eral Hosp. (1963-64), and spent two years in the Navy Medical Corps — one at sea and the second in Washington, D.C. On June II, Knute married Eileen Marie Clifford in NYC. They arc now living in Evanston, 111. where Dr. Cavanaugh is affiliated with Northwestern U. dept. of orthopedic surgery and b a resident at St. Francis Hospital. Dr. ROBERT GIARRATANO MD b Just completing a two-year tour at the US Na\'al Hospital in the Philippines and re­turned to the States in August- Bob, hb wife, Mikcle, and four-month-old daughter, Davm Kathleen, will spend one more year in the Navy at San Diego. Bob then plans to begin a civilbn residency in Ob-Gyn. in California. 
DAN CASSIDY, employed by the Federal Aviation Agency, was transferred thb past year from Harrbburg to Cleveland. He and hb wife, Alice, have two sons. 
MIKE HALPIN b going for his PhD at Penn in American Civilization and stiH manages to stay single. XFike's address ts 113 S. 37th St., Philadelphia 4. BOB MURPHY now has three children. Bob's wife b a SMC grad, the former Pat Cunningham. Murph b with Worthington Corp, 11 Union Ave., Bala Synwyd, Pa., and i'; a techn-cil sales rcDre<entative in the pmnn div. A. DAVID KESTNER b an attorney with the firm of Rocao & Rocap. Media, Rj. Dave is engaged to ^fiss "Teddy*' Ctoskey and the niiptLils will be aroimd the first of the year. .\LAN REED is still single and working with the family business, Equinment and Furniture Co., 100 W. 3rl St.. Conshohocken. Pa. Al received hb master's at Wharton School two years ago. 
The remainder nf this colnmn will be ti'med over tn LARRY WE?n^. the Philadelphia cor­respondent of the Class news. Larry and Lou Ann expect their fifth child in December. They now have three girls and a boy. Larry b an insurance broker with his father's firm of Kindt. Kaye and Wcntz, Philadelnhia. He plans to start CPCU (Professional Property-Casualty In­surance Designation) studies at Penn in the fall. 
"At DuPont Paints one finds salesman PAT GORMAN. Pat and w'fe, Fran, live at W. 86 Willowbrook Ct., P^ramus, N.J. They are the proud parents of three girls. JOE FULLEM b an attorney ^vith the Philadelphia firm of Ben­nett and Bricklin. 1421 Chestnut Street. 
"BILL XfcCULLOUGH and wife. Kaft>. visited recently. Bill and Katie got a burst of large family life \vith an overnight stay. Bill Is with International Paper Co. in New Yorit. and re­sides at I Vincent Road, Apt. 4B, Bronxville. 
N.Y. ED PAULSEN is a mattagement trainee with Allstate Insurance in White Plains, N.Y. He and wife. Kalhy, reside at 134 State St., Brooklyn I, N.Y. althouijh they were looking for a home to beat that 35-miIe one-way drive on those N.Y. expressways. 
"JOHN H. (Butch) REARDON now resides at 4273A Executive Dr. East, St. Ann, Mo. Riding your fire engine to the Card'nal games this year. White Rat? BILL WARDELL b Madison 'Aventiing* with Doyle, Dane, Bern-baker, 20 W. 43rd St., NYC. 
"HAROLD SIEGEL Is the Class champ for perseverance. An attorney, he a currently vAth 
the Philaddphia Board of Education, 2Ist & 
The Parkway. Harold and \«fc, Mar>-, arc ex­
pecting their third cliild. ^Vhile bearing and 
rearing children, Mary is a medical student at 
Women's Mcdiral College in Philadelphia. She 
is approaching her internship now. GEORGE 
CLEMENTS has three children and looks great. 
He is in a management position with a Bing­
hamton, N.Y. paper. His address is Sl'/z Burr 
Ave., Binghamton, N.Y. 13903." 
Thanks, Larr^-. .Agent V/cntz has been verj* 
faithful in relaying information :ind many times 

I have used items without acknowledging him 
as the source (sometimes for his own safety). 
The Class appreciates men like Larrj-, Tom Car­
roll, Warren Albright and many more. All this 
leads up to my pitch. Wc need nen-sl Bzing 
us up to date, jot down names and actinties of 
clasanates whom >*ou've seen recently. Use the 
attached postcard, ^fany thanks. 
— JOE MULLIGAN, Secretary 

1960 
THOAAAS J. O'CONNELL 3350 Everetf Rd. Lake Forest, fll. 
Eo£ryone has been concerned by the brief news statements in our column since graduation. This was caused by poor communication by members of the Class with the Alumni Office and with Class scribe, JACK CEIER. In addition. Jack found that he was unable to devote the necessary time for news preparation that the column required. 
In order to strengthen our communication chan­nels, it 'was decided that a more active correspon­dence network should be established. At the Reunion, one year ago, a number of men volun­teered to help in this effort. The news network iviU be spearheaded by the man who helped to plan Ike Reunion and who has volunteered to serve as Class scribe, TOM O'CONNELL from Lakf Forest, IB. Class members who live near a regional representative should keep him informed of the latest happenings in their area. This should make a substantial difference in the amount of information that appears in future columns. 
The following men wUl serve as regional reps: Miiwrsl—BRIAN O. SH.4NNON. S7S7 S. Bishop, Chicago; ROBERT La MONTAGNE, 8133 S. Kenwood Ave., Chicago; EDWARD BUTLER Jr., 1362 Jefferson Ave., Akron. Ohio; MICHAEL GRANEY, 7986 Mohawk Trail, Temperance Mich., NESTOR WElG.iND, 110 N. Main, Wichita, Kan.; PATRICK CREADON, 395 N. Delaplaine, Riverside, 111. 
East—HOWARD FOLEY, 200 Elmwood Rd., Ncedham, Mass.; JOSEPH THUMMESS Jr., 360 East 56th St., New York City; STEPHEN BARRY, 343 East 6!lh St., New York City; WILUAM McMURTRIE, 210 Little Falls St., Falls Church, Va.; JOSEPH HILGER, 317 Ken­nelworth Apts., Alden Park, Philadelphia. 
South—CHARLES NACKLEY JR., 25 Flagler St., Suite 406, Miami, Fla.; CHRISTIE FLAN­AGAN, Hutchison, Taliferro 8 Hutchison, 2110 Tennessee Building, Houston, Tex. 
West—DECLAN O'DONNELL, 1050 Corona, Apt. 20, Denver, Colo.; GREGORY M. ROGERS, 2295 E. Asbury, Apt. 101, Denver, Colo. 
—RICHARD CORBETT, President 
- BULLETIN-Post Anny-Gamc Class Reunion 
October 8—Room 102 O'Shaughnessy BULLETIN 

At this point — six years thereafter — what can one say except, "JACK GEIER — where are you?" 
Since space is limited and the time has been too long, I shall dispense witli amenities and re­port. Yours truly had a four-year McNamara fellouship with the US .\nny in Baltimore, MontertT, Okinawa, Japan and Colorado Springs. I am presently selling in Chicago. 
DAVE R. ADAM, Lafayette, La. — Sun Oil Co. Dr. THOMAS L. ADAMSON, McClellan AFB, Calif., US.\F dentist. KEITH ANZILOTTI, DuPont Dc Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Del. JOSEPH P. ALBRIGHT, Parkcrsburg, W. Va. is piacdcing law but for whom, Joe? 
From the \-astness of the South China Sea come greetings from one each JIM AUSUM — officer and warmonger. LtJKE J, ALBERS, Engle­wood, Ohio, auditor for Peter Kuntz Co. BER­NARD ALLARD, North Ametian Aviation, Ana­heim, Calif. JOHN P. AYERS, St. Davids, Pa., BetUeliem Steel Sales. 
And a newsman appears among our successful 
classmates, JOHN C. ADLER, Joliet, 111., ass't. 
sports editor, .4urora-Beacon News. 
ANDREW P. BARTON JR., Cincinnati, Ohio, Sales Mutual Supply Co. THO.MAS F. BATES, Eric, Pa., director of public information, Gannon College. Along with Tom at Gannon is Dr. ROBERT H. BECKER, ass't. professor of chem­istry. ANTHONY J. BORGES, Hartford. Conn., PhoenLx Mutual Life Ins. Co. NORM BERGE­SON, East Rochester, N.Y., Xerox Corp. JOHN 
D. BOLGER, Elgin, 111., graduated U. of Chicago Law School 1963 and since with Henehan, Don­o\'an and Isaacson, Chicago. J. KENNETH BOURGON, Livonia. Mich., director of student actirities, Franklin High School. ROBERT BR.ADTKE, Calumet City, III., coach and teacher. Bishop Noll High, Hammond, Ind. R. "BOOMER" B.ASOLD, Victoria, Tex., Union Carbide. 
And on the political scene we have none other than EDWARD BUTLER JR., Akron, Ohio, deputy administrator. Office of the Mayor, Akron — "And if I am elected . . . . " 
More servicemen — DAVID CHRISTIEN, USS Waller, N.Y.; and EDWARD COYLE, US Afarine Corps, Japan. Hoiv's the raw &h, gajjin? VINCENT CUM.MINGS, US Na%T, Naples, Italy. And from the garden spot of the country we hear from PAUL CARROLL, Colomdo Springs, Colo. How's the Embers, Paul? GALEN C'iWLEV, Park Forest, III., American Airlines. 
Barely a whisper from "CORKY" CLARK JR., Dallas, Tex., Olmsted-Kirk Paper Co. Speak up, you all! TERRY CON'\VAY, Bethel Park, Pa., consultant for Touche, Ross, Bailey & Smart, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Dr. JAMES CROSSIN, Indianapolis, Ind., resi­dent at Methodist Hospital. Rather switch than fight. Cross? BOB CORSON, Chicago, Shcr\rin-Williams Co. JIM CRUSE JR., SlidcU, La., Laiscr Aluminum. 
inCHAEL DIETER, U. of Nfissouri. JAMES 
C. DOYLE, Park Forest, 111., Kendall Co. P.ATRICK DUBBS, E. Lansing, Mich. PHILIP 
R. DO.N'EG.AN, 8212 Laliin, Chicago. JOHN DORRIAN, 740 Island Ct., Columbus, O. JOHN DORENBUSCH. Columbus, Ind., Iruin Man­agement Co. MICHAEL J. DEHAEMER, Mt. Pleasant, S.C., US Naxy. FRED DEROCHER, 
N. Olmsted, Ohio. One more barrister on the roster, congratulations. 
SUMNER DANA, Pittsbutsh, instnictor, U. of Pittsburgh School of Dentistry. PIERCE DE­GROSS, Slony Point, N.Y., General Foods Corp. CHUCK EVCES, E. Liverpool, Ohio, W. Va. University. GEORGE ELLIS and AL FLANA­G.AN arc on McNamara fellowships with the US Nav-y. Al is in Mayport, Fla. and George, FPO, N.Y. More bwycrs, TED A. FITZ­GEIWLD, Hebron, Ind. and BOB FINTILAY, Washington, D.C. 
WILLIAM ERWIN, Chicago, Standard OU Co. D.WID EBERL. 148 Joseph Dr., Tonawanda, 
N.Y. RICHARD FREMGEN, Whcaton, HI., Haskins &. Sells, Chicago. RICHARD FAVRET, Cincinnati, Ohio, WKRC Radio. GERALD FRIESENECKER, Minneapolis, Richards-Wilcox Mfg. Co. 
Here is a little family information at last. Lt. GEORGE GOODWINE, Bransiiick, Me., married Mary Agnes Shrincr, SMC '60. George, one of our numerous highway hoppers, has two daughters 
— Nancy Marie and Laurie Jane. Dr. WILLIAM G.ATTI, 80 Clarendon PI., Hackensaci, N.J. 
And our teaching corps continues to grow with the likes of RICHARD GELSON, Baltimore, Md., College of Notre Dame, instructor of eco­nomics. Now that's what I'd call staying with the school colors, and then some, as this one is of all female composition. And TIM GORMAN, Peoria, 111., English teacher and golf coach. Manual High. And how's the handicap, Tim? MICK GORHAM, Wilkcs-Barre, Pa., teacher-coach, Coughlin High. 
And for a change of pace from doctors, lawyers and servicemen we have — TOM GROJEAN, College Park, Ga., treasurer of Southern Air­ways. Still in shape, Tom? GEORGE COUZENS, Bloomlield Hills, Mich., president, Couzens Yacht Sales. Would you believe a rowboat, George? JOHN GEHL, Milwaukee, Gehl Guernsey Farms. Hmm, and w*e have another MD at Methodist Hospital in IndianapolU — GEORGE HORVATH, 3119 N. Fuller Drive. And a couple of engineers 
— BILL HOWARD, 5628 Waveriy, La Jolb, Calif, and JERRY HENSLER, 904 - lOih St., Idaho Falls, Ida., Westinghouse Electric. And then there's JOSEPH HILGER, Alden Park, Philadelphia, Price Waterhouse, and PETE HUBER, Henderson, Ky., Mead Johnson & Co. 
JAIiIES HUTTON, 1164 Ralston, Gary. PETER HICKEY, Eggertsville, N.Y., Union Carbide. LARRY HANRAHAN, Chevy Chase, Md., US Dept. of Commerce. DOUGLAS KEYING, Pitts­burgh, Pa., Westinghouse Electric And another voice from ray home-awtty-from-home across the Pacific — HARRY HIGA, Yokohama, Japan. Konnichi-Wa, Harry. 
Lawyers all arc: F. J. KANE JR., New York State Assemblyman. EUGENE JORDAN, admin­btiativc assistant to US Rep., Thomas B. Curtis (Missouri). RICHARD IMMING, R No. 1, Box 220, Elgin, III. WILLIA.M E. KELLY, 1416 Jonquil Terrace, Chicago. TERRY KEATING, Raymond, Chirco, Fletcher & Donaldson, Detroit. FRANCIS H. KENNEDY JR., 1965 graduate from St. Louis U. Law School with JD degree and presently associated with J. J. DiflT, St. Louis. MICHAEL KEARNS representing Keams & Kcams, Terrc Haute, Ind. THOMAS KAMP, graduate of the Smtc U. of Iowa Law School and now with Lane & Waterman, Davenport, Iowa. And we have RODGER JENKINS, as­sistant trust officer. Second National Bank of Richmond, Ind. And we go one bctcr witli The First National Bank of Chicago and THOMAS 
J. KELLY. One of the many who help keep lawyers engaged is ROBERT KUHNS with the FBI in Puerto Rico. 
Brother JAMES KELL CSC is vice-prindpal, registrar and social studies teacher at St. Ed­ward's High School in Austin, Tex. J. JANSEN is a product supervisor with General Foods Corp. in Western Springs, 111. MORRY LE FERE, 753 
W. Morrell, Jackson, Mich. FRANCIS LOM­BARD is a VP in personnel & safety in the trucking field in Trumbull, Conn. G. M.ARRIN LEWIS U with G. H. Walker & Co. in Water­loo, Iowa. FRANK LINSENMEYER is with Pittsbuigh Pbte Glass in Royal Oak, Mich. JEROME LLTKAS is working for the Bcndbi Corp. JIM LYNOTT is in dentistrj- in Chicago. 
Hello to LARRY LEACH and frau in South Bend with O'Brien Paint. FRANCIS LOOSEN is a VP vrith the First Bank of Okarohe, Okla. CECIL LOBO is at Rose Polytechnic Institute in Terrc Haute, Ind. And for all the duffers in the Class we have TERRY LALLY, a golf pro in Owensboro. Ky. Drs. THOMAS E. MORAN, Indianapolis and DAVID C. MAYER, St. Vincent, Cleveland. 
Lawyers, BILL .MORAN, Chicago, MIKE MURPHY with Musick, Peeler & Garrett, Beverly Hills, Calif. That's nice territory, Mike. DENNIS 
J. MURPHY, Murphy & Preccc, Grand Rapids, -Minn, and LARRY M.KRTIN. Chicago. 
Teachers: THOMAS J. MORAN, U. of Minne­sota, HERB MOELLER, physics dept., Te-xas 
A. Ss. XL DAVID MALONE, secondary school science, Dedham, Mass. Would appreciate some vvotd on tlie East Coast Irish Mafia, Dave. PAT MANTEY. Stanford U. Brother JEFFREY MICHELS CSC is principal of Bo>sville of Mich­igan High. Brother VINCENT MASTERSON CSC is at Catholic Central High in Monroe, Mich. Brother D. MARTIN FSC, Philadelphia. 
TOM MEKUS is with Colgate-Palmolive in Champaign. GEORGE MILTON is vrith the Milton Can Co., Port Washington, N.Y. TOM J. MARTIN is an assistant manager of computer programming with the Chicago & Northwestern Railway. Our "see the USA in your Chevrolet" man is ED McKEOWN, McKeown-Phalin Chevrolet, Glen Ellyn, III. CHUCK NACKLEY is practicing law in Miami. Rev. THOMAS NORMS CSC is a professor at St. Michel. Paris, France. DONALD NOREIKA is teaching science at Seton Catholic High in Endicott, N.Y. DAVE NAGEL U a physicist with the US Naval Research Laboratory rn Washington. 
Rev. CHARLES R. NOWERY CSC, Wash­ington, studying for the priesthood. Let us hear from you, Dick. BILL NOYES is a sales rep. for Coming Ghss Works, Addison, III. TIM NEEDLER is a rnanufacturer's rep. in the electronics field, Indianapolis. JIM NAUGHTON is diligendy pursuing political writings for the Cleveland Plain Dealer. JOE O'CALLAGHAN is with the Whcekibrator Corp., Arlington Hgls., 
111. Up in Cambridge, Miss, is L. DAVID OTTE, copy chief with de-Garmo-Boston, Inc., Advertis­ing & PR. JOHN O'HARA is doing publicity and film v\Titing for Interlake Steel out of Harvey, III. 
Dr. PAT W. O'DALY is interning at Long Island CoUegc Hospital. TERRY O'LAUGHLIN is with Doherty, Rumble & Butler law firm in St. Paul. J. REED "VfHlZ" O'MALLEY is in investment banking with Halscy Stuart in Chi­cago. SAHAG GARABED OXIAN teaches French and English at Brandywine High in Xiles, Mich. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 oaOBER 

DAVID O'BRIEN is an assistant professor of history at Loyola College in Montreal. ANDREW POL*rORAK was pursuing ph>sics at the U. of Michigan. ANTHONY PARKS is tcacliing at York Community High in Elmhurst, III. WAR­REN DICK. PLUNKETT is doing the same at Ev-anston High in Evanston, III. JI.\I PIEL-SnCKER is practicing Jaw in Tulsa, Okb. ED PAULSEN is with Allsuic Insurance Co. in White Plains, N.Y. Rev. LEONARD PAUL CSC is pursuing graduate studies in Baltimore. 
JOHN PARKS is in Opalocka, Fla. as the Florida rep for Revere Copper. John Itas a daughter, Kelly Ann, two years old and an addition which we have not had further word on. How about it, John? BOB PFEIFER is an assistant cashier with the Merchants National Bank & Trust Co. of' Indianapolis. ANTONIO PARSI is head microbiologist at Smith, Miller & Patch, Inc., N. Brunswick, N.J. We have re­ceived notice that in two years none other than RIVERS A. PATOUT III Mil be a member of the clergy. 
GEORGE RICHVALSKY is in Scotch Plains, 

N.J. with Arthur Andersen & Co. J. TERENCE REILLY is in sales with Youngstown Sheet & Tube, Watcrtown, Mass. TOM RINI is engaged in industrial sales with Burdett Ox^-gen Co., Cin­cinnati, Ohio. DANIEL REYNOLDS is with the Highway Equipment Co. in Pittsburgh, Pa. GEORGE RYAN is with the Federal Reserve Bank of N.Y. in the capacity of a foreign ex­change trader. DICK QUINN is in West Hart­ford, Conn, with the architectural Brm of Rus­sell, Gibson & Von Dolilen. Dr. TOM ROSE is practicing in St. Paul, Minn. PAUL QUINN is at the U. of .\fichigan. Dr. JOE R.ANALLO is in residency at the U. of California Medical Center. 
And that, my friends, is all for now. Space limits our reporting. Subsequent reports will re­veal the whereabouts and activities of other mem­bers of tlie Class of '60. In the meantime, let's hear from you. Sayonam! 
— THOMAS J. O'CONNELL, Secretary 

1961 
WILLIAM HENNEGHAN 30556 Scrivo Dr. Warren, Mich. 48092 
In my first article, my primary purpose was 

to introduce myself and to ask your cooperation 
in sending me any new information or information 
(it may be news to someone). I am asking for 
your help again. 
I recently heard that LUINO DELL'OSSO JR has joined Humble Oil Co.'s Bayton, Tex. re­finery where he wiU act as a senior engineer for the Fuels Technical di\Tsion. THOMAS N. GLOW was graduated from the California Podbtry College in San Francisco in May. He plans to practice in Toledo. I heard from the University tliat RAY RATKOWSKI is nou-a first oHicc agent with the FBI in Kansas City, Mo. Also, FRANK ISABELLE received hU MD from Ohio State U., as did TONf MARTIN. ROBERT M. COONEY lias been appointed a brokerage consultant for the Worcester, ifass. ofHcc of Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. 
My wife (Mary Anne "Tinky" Moore, Barat *G2) and I went to Washington, D.C., June 25 for the wedding of BILL CRONIN to Margie Munsch. Bill is with Olivetti Corp. in sales. While there I ran into TIM MONAHAN. Tim is married to Joan Rivas, Barat '62 and they are expecting their third child in August. Tim is in the broom com business in Areola, III. What a surprise it was to see CHRIS LUND who came in from Sao Paulo, Brazil where he is working with his dad in the publication busi­ness. Chris is married and has three children. 
JIM NACK, an attorney, is Jiving in Chicago and he flew in for Bill's wedding. While tliere for the weekend JIM MURPHY was s^vom into the Bar in D.C. JOHN TULLY and his witc Sue stopped for the wedding on their ^vay to Bermuda for a \'acation. John is an attorney and living in Grand Rapids, Mich. They are ex­pecting their first child. PETE MURPHY and his wife Ginger drove in from Nc\v* York for the wedding too. Pete is in sales in N.Y. 
I've also heard that STEVE LEROUX is mar­ried and has re-enlisted in the Marine Corps, as an officer. JACK CASTIN has just gotten out of the Navy after four years and is going back to school in Oklahoma. At the Reunion I saw MIKE CRONIN who is with Douglas Securities Inc. in Chicago. He and his wife 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 
broker, GEORGE EASLEY is with First Ne­
braska Securities, Inc. in Lincoln, Neb. 
JOHN LINEHAN ^^-as in the States for our Reunion. He is worldng in Brussels, Belgium with Sincbir as a marketing representative. JOHN GRIEB is now working in Detroit and has re­cently been promoted to assistant branch man­ager witli the National Bank of Detroit. John and his wife Ann have just had tlieir third child. BOB KROHA is an industrial salesman in De­troit here with Ex-Cello Corp. DENNY O'SHAUGHNESSY is in sales witii Cadillac Corp. also in Detroit. PAT CALLAHAN is married and is a banker somewhere in the Detroit area. 
That's about it for now. Let me mention it again—please send me any news >-ou might think interesting to be put into the ALUMNUS. 
— BILL HE-\NEGH/UV, Secretary 

1961 Law 
JOHN N. MORELAND 
Sookin & Moreland, 
211'72 E.MainSK, Ottumwa, Iowa 52501 
1962 
TERRENCE F. McCARTHY 31957 Williamsburg, St. Clair Shores, Mich. 48082 
-iuLLETIN ­
Post Army-Game Class Reunion 
October 8—Room 105 O'Shaughnessy 
BULLETIN 

1962 Law 
PAUL K. ROONEY Assistant U.S. Attorney Southern District of New York U,S. Courthouse, Foley Square New York, N.Y. 10007 
1963 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 Palmer Hill Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
My thanks to all who have written htely. We have been allotted a certain amount of space by the editors but I will attempt to lit alt the news in this issue if possible. 
Received a letter from DICK FELLRATH. He has just received an LLB from U. of Detroit Law School and plans to enter the Army Judge Advocate General Corps in the coming year. Also receiving law degrees from Detroit were TOM BEJIN and BOB GESELL. LEO R. ifcINTYIlE JR. is currcntiy serving as a 1st lieutenant in Army Intelligence in Vietnam. He may be reached by writing Hq. 13th R.R.U., APO San Francisco, Calif. DON RYAN and wife, Marion, became the proud parents of a daughter, Maura, born on July 26. The Ryans are residing at 1215 85ih St., BrookI>"n. Also new members to the proud ranks of parents are PHIL RYAN and wife, Becky. Patrick Michael Rj-an was born in South Bend on June 26. Phil is attending graduate scl'ool at ND. 
PHIL FEDEWA is working on his MA in history at the U. of Dayton. Phil married Connie Metties of SMC on Nov. 7, 19&t. RON REID and wife, the former Barbara Kurien, arc the proud parents of a daughter, Donna Marie. Ron is presently teaching English at St. Johns River College in Pahtica, Fhi. BILL BURNS is in Okaronga, Malawi, Central Africa teaching in the Peace Corps. 
On a recent trip to ^Vashington I had the cj'cle. To the best of her knowledge she is the Maggie have two little giils. Aaother stock* 
opportunity to get together with TONY BASCHE. 
Tony is completing a tour as a 1st lieutenant 
\nth the Army InteUigence. RAV STEINHANN 
and wife, Mimi, have moved to a new home 
at 1926 Griffith St., Philadelptua. They arc the 
parents of two children, Christina and Ray, Jr. 
Ray is Working for a building concern in Flula­
delphia. 
JOHN S. McINTYRE is in his 3rd year of 
medical school at Rochester, N.Y. where he was 
recently elected president of the student council 
for the forthcoming year. JOHN F. KWINN 
has earned his MD from the U. of Illinois 
Medical School and is interning at Cook County 
Hospital in Chicago. JAMES AUKER5 also re­
ceived his MD from North^vcstem U. GIL 
RODRIGUEZ is now in his senior year at 
Temple Medical School in Phibdelphia, while 
FRANK PIRO is entering his junior year there. 
D.\VID A. PACINI received his master of arts in teaching in social sciences education at Brown 
U. GEORGE J. DOOLEY HI has received his master's in metallurgy from Iowa State. Also graduating from Brown U. was JAMES THOMAS LEWIS with a master's in applied mathematics. 
Lt. EDWARD A. D.WIS has been awarded pilot's wings at Webb AFB, Tex. and has been assigned to fiy the F-102 Delta Dagger at Ferrin AFB, Tex. Lt. JOHN S. SEGURA received the Air Medal at Cam Ranh Bay, Vietnam for meri­torious achievement during military Sights. Lt. JOHN HOGAN has reported to the 5th Coast Guard District in Portsmouth, Va. to become public information ofScer and aide to Rear Adm. 
O. C. Rohnke. 
DALE C. LAPORTE and THOMAS C. PAVLIK both receK-cd the degree of juris doctor from Western Reserve U. EMERT WYSS JR. has his doctor of laws from St. Louis U. while FRANK FROELKE earned his degree at the 
U. of Cincinnati. GEORGE FELL received a bachelor of laws from Ohio State U. 
WALTER MUCHA JR. has been appointed general accounting supervisor of Whirlpool Corp.'s LaPorte. Ind. diwsion. JOHN SLATTERY has joined the Nestle Co., Inc. as an assistant branch manager in the coffee mari^eting division. 
— FRANK DICELLO, Secretary 

1963 Law 
JOSEPH R. SULUVAN 1526 E.Cedar St. South Bend, Ind. 46617 
I must apologize to you for the lack of infor­mation contained in this and the prior publica­tions. I have heard from a few of our classmates. However, I have been quite busy and unfor­tunately could not get this information ac­cumubtcd in time for the deadline for this issue. Please note, houxver, my address and that there is a standing inWtation to visits from any one of you on home game dates. Of course, proper refreshments will be served. 
— JOE SULLIVAN, Secretary 

1964 
WARREN C STEPHENS 205 Alameda Belmont, Calif. 
PAUL BASBAGILL, who is owner-manager of Continental Travel Bureau in Chicago, wrote recently to convey the sad news that BOB RING died in Milwaukee on May 1. He was attending Marquette Medical Schot^ at the time. The death was from natural causes though the actual ailment has not been pinpointed. The prayers of the Class are requested for Bob. 
KEVIN W. SMVIH has been promoted to the position of personnel manager of Central Soya's Marion. Ohio plant. JOHN R. WARREN has been promoted to 1st lieutenant tn the Air Force. He is assigned as an administrative officer at A^mstrom AFB, Mont. Airman 3rd Class EDWARD P. O'CONNOR has graduated from the training course for USAP material si>ecialist5 and IS now assigned to Richards-Gebaur AFB, Mo. for duty with the Continental Air Commzmd. THOMAS B. REILLY has been promoted to 1st lieutenant at Fort Buckner, Okinawa where he is a communications officer of the conunand headquarters company. Sister M. JEAN VIAN­NEY CSC PhD '64 has been given a gnint bom the Population Council of the Rockefeller Ffxm­dation to continue her work in the field of biological research of the human reproductive only »ster doing research in thb field. 
Lt. Col. EVERETT E. BL.\KELY MA '&4 has been awarded the USAF Commendation Medal for meritorious scnice as professor of aerospace studies at Rosiercs Air Base, France. GARLAXD D. WILLIAMS ^L^. '&i has been appointed field manager in the Midwest for Gregg's Collegiate Business Education department of McGra%v-HilI Book Co. Sue and PAUL FOX arc residing in Milwaukee where he is attend­ing Marquette Medical Scliool. Sliaron and NICK THIES are in Phibdclphia where Nick and JUI MURR.\Y are attending Wharton School of Finance. Nick and Sharon were expecting a little Thies in July. Jan and DENNY McFARLAX and Vec and ' FRED FISHER arc at South Dakota State College where the hu&bandj are seeking law' degrees. 
Those studying law include TOM CASE at 
Albany, N.Y,'; DICK LEWIS at Toledo. Ohio; 
''CHIP" KRAMER at the U. of Wisconsin j and 

ADRIAN KING at Temple. MIKE MORRISEY 
is absorbed in a 30-month training program with 
International Harvester in Minneapolis. JOHN 
NELSON is a member of the Lawyer staff at NT) 
Law School and is married to the former Linda 
HckeL BILL RUETER is teaching at North 
CatlioHc High School in Piiiladclphia and is work­
ing on his >LA in romance languages at the U. 

of Pcnns\lvania- RALPH NOFI writes that 
FRA.\K FEE, BILL MALLEY, PETE GRACE, 
MART\' LOMBARDI and BOB WIECZOREK 
arc ail classtnatcs at N\'U Graduate School of 
Business. CHUCK SCHEDLB.^UER completed 
his >IB.'\ in Jnnuar>' of *66 and is now* working 
for Colgate-Palmolive. RON KIZIOR is back at 
ND to get a PhD in economics and 1st Lt. JOHN 
SCULLY is stationed at 5tli Army Hq. in Chicago. 
Future doctors from our Class include BOB BROUILLARD, JOILN McCU\'ILLE and PETE STAHL (New Jersey College of Medicine); BOB BURGFECHTEL (Iowa Medical School) and KEN LERENO (Creighton). Ut Lt. MIKE HOLT is stationed at Fort Sheridan, Illinois with the Army Adjutant General Corps. His letter included the following points of interest: JOE KOZIOL is working in Cambridge, Mass. as an aerospace engineer with NASA after recei\'ins his MS in engineering from Princeton in Januarj*. BOB GRIFFfTH is with the Peace Corps teach­ing math and English in East Africa. 
CHUCK RICHARDS was married July 2 to Janet Bonascra of Warren, Ohio. Currently, Chuck is a sales rep for East Ohio Gas Co. and attends night law school at .Akron U. JON J.-\MES received his ^fA in English from UCL.A, in January. He is now working on his California junior college credential there and plans to pursue his PhD in English at ND in September. TOM OSBORN is a second-year dental student at the U. of Michigan. He married Kathrjn Ann Kneen Aug. 6. BOB DU.VNE is stationed at Fort Jackson, S.C. with the finance corps. He plans to .attend NYU or Columbia for his MBA when he is dischaiged. Lt. JOH.V PAGEL is at Fort Deirick, Md. with tlie chemical corps. He received his MS from Yale in chemical engi­neering and worked for Esso Research and Engi­neering Co. in New Jersey prior to entering the service. He writes that JOE WIG and J. P. AL\RANO also got their master's in chemical engineering from Yale and that the latter is still there completing his PhD requirements. D.\RWIN STOCK was recently promoted to 1st Lt. and U at Loring AFB in Maine. Lt. (jg) JOE STINIMAN has just returned from Meinam where he flew over 100 missions off the USS Kitty Hawk in his Plianiom, Joe casually re­marked tliat on one of these flights he was shot down but fortunately was picked right up by a helicopter. 
— CLAY STEPHENS, Secretary 

1964 Law 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, IH. 60202 
1965 
JAMES P. HARNiSCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, Ohio 44514 
A date to be remembered is Sept. 24. Our first informal reunion will be held immediately following the Purdue game which is scheduled for the above date. Plans call for the terrace behind the Morris Inn as a central meeting place. A bar will be prowded by the Inn. Any 
change In plans will be announced during the 
Purdue game. 
BILL McGUIRE was married to Nancy Hoync 
(SMC '66) on August 13 in Dayton, Ohio. A 
latgc contingent of our Class was on liand for 
the festive occasion. Bill and Nanc>' will be li\ing 
in Madison, Wis. where Bill is engaged in hospi­
tal administration for the University Hospital. 
PHILIP HALEY was married Sept. 3 in Chi­
cago to Susan P. Armej (SMC '66). A number 
of ND men were at the wedding. Phil is in his 
second year at North^vestcm Medical School and 
plans to live in Ev-anston. 
JIM HILLMAN and MIKE SEXTON have 
started their first year of medical studies at St. 
Louis U. Jim has also done graduate work in 
chemistry at Kent State during the past year. 
JOE DiGREGORIO is now a father. His wife, 
Frannie, presented him with a boy in July. Joe 
is at Penn State U. working on his doctorate in' 
clicmistn*. Lt. JOHN GASGAL has completed a 
nine-week armor officer orientation course at the 
•Anny .Armor Center, Fort Knox, Ky. THOMAS KISTNER has been named assistant super\'isor at the Houston, Tex. life di\ision of Aetna Life and Casualt>'. 
JOE BUCOLO has spent the summer studying French at the U. of Grenoble, France. He is now in Loyola's grad school of education where he has been awarded an assistantship In guidance and counseling. ROBERT HOAG has been com­missioned a 2nd lieutenant in the Air Force and Is being assigned to Cnug .AFB, Ala. for pilot training. JOHN BRODERICK has been elected prc^dent of the Wharton MBA house, the grad­uate residence at the Wharton School of Com­merce and Finance. ROBERT ARCARO took a leave of absence from the insurance firm for w'liich he works to handle the adverthins as­sociated with Kentucky Club's annual contest to give away a t%vo-year-old thoroughbred. JUAN CINTRON JR. has been promoted to the posi­tion of area manager for the Bowton Associates of South Bend. 
BOB KUR^XS has been elected president of the student association at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. It is the lop student organization on campus and rep­resents and generally super^'Ises tfie school's 1,320 sludenis and their acti\itics. PETE J.ARVIS was married in June to Joan Blila (SMC '65) in Erie, Pa. After a hone^inoon in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands Pete returned to Yale U. where he is engaged in their cit>' planning pro­gram of studies. LEN WILTBERGER was mar­ried in August to Judy Myere. Lenny has com­pleted his MBA at the U. of Buffalo. DICK BURBOT T has completed his five-year AB engi­neering program at ND and will enter the U. of Pittsbuigh's MBA program. 
P.AUL REITER, JOHN GORDO.N and BERNIE YSURSA have completed their first year at St. Louis Law Scliool. JOHN FITZPATRICK has completed his MB.A program at the U. of Pittsburgh and has accepted a position with Gen­eral Electric The GE training program will keep **Fit2" moving around the East for the next year. WILLIAM "ROCKY" GARCIA was married In August to Joan Marskey (SNfC '65) in San Mateo, Calif. JACK OLESKY is finishing his MB.A program at night at the U. of Pitts­burgh while working for U.S. Steel. BOB BRAWN is working for IBM in Chicago. Bob received his MBA from the U- of Pittsburgh in August. 
TOM WEST has also received Iiis MBA from Pilt. Tom was mamcd to Nancy Longnccker in August and is now working for Corning Glass in New York Cit>-. RO.V KIRNER is another U. of Pittsburgh MBA recipient. Ron has entered his father's business in Eric, Pa. BERNIE ZAHREN, who supplied the above information on ND men in the Pittsburgh area. Is ^vorking in the post of property manager for Wllmar Properties of Pittsburgh. Bemie also plans to complete his MBA requirements at Pitt in December. 
— JAMES P. HARNISCH, Secretary 

1965 Law 
JOHN A. HAUTER 
1050 Indiana Ave. Glenwood, III. 60425 
1966 
RICHARD ANGELOTTI 1404 Greenfield Dr. Erie, Pa. 16512 
Miss Marie K. Lawrence, law li­brarian at Notre Dame for 21 years, has been promoted to Law Librarian Emeritus and appointed head of the social sciences and busi­ness administration department of the University's Memorial Library. She assumed her new duties Sept. 1. Miss Lawrence has been at Notre Dame since 1927 and been law li­brarian since 1945. She holds an AB from Indiana U. and master's de­grees in library science from the 
liwsdMl 
University of Michigan and Colum­bia University. 
Mrs. Kathleen C. Farmann re­placed Miss Lawrence as law li­brarian on July 1. Mrs. Farmann's husband, Stanley L. Farmann, was appointed assistant law librarian. Mrs. Farmann holds an AB degree from Trinity College, Washington, DC and a master's degree in law librarianship from the University of Washington. She practiced law with the Washington, DC firm of Coving­ton and Burling before she entered upon her career as a librarian. 
She was an instructor in legal re­search at the University of Wash­ington School of Law; law librarian for the Supreme Court of Hawaii; and assistant director of research services at Ohio State University. She is a contributor to the second edition of Pollack's Fundamentals of Legal Research and to the student pamphlet that accompanies it. Mrs. Farmann is president of the Ohio Law Librarians Association and was for several years question-ctnd-an­swer editor for the Law Library Journal. She is a member of the Bar Assodation of the District of Colum­bia and of the American Association of Law Librarians. 
Mr. Farmann holds a bachelor's degree in Scandinavian languages and a master's degree in library sci­ence from the University of Wash­ington. He has been librarian of the Washington State Library; ad­ministrative assistant to the director of libraries at Ohio State; circula­tion librarian at the University of Hawaii library; and bibliographer in sciences and Scandinavian lan­guages and engineering librarian at Ohio State. Mr. Farmann is a mem­ber of the American Library Asso-
AlUMNUS SEPTEMBER ^966 OaOBER 

ciation and of the Ohio Law Li­brarians Association. He is peist president of the Franklin County Ohio Library Association. Practice Court. The first jury trial of the fall term of the Superior Court oi Marion County (Notre Dame's practice court) was held Aug. 27. The court is hearing 16 cases this term, all of them tried by student "law firms" to a federal or state judge and a jury of first-year law students and other members of the community. 
Six judges are participating in the court's tried term this year. Judge Luther M. Swygert, of the US Court of Appeals in Chicago, is chief judge. Judges Robert A. Grant and George N. Beamer, of the US Dis­trict Courts in South Bend and Ham­mond, and Judges F. Kenneth Demp­sey, E. Spencer Walton and Norman Kopec of the Superior Court of St. Joseph County, also are serving on the trial bench. 
Participation by interns of Me­morial Hospital in South Bend as medical expert witnesses was made a regularly scheduled part of the young doctors' medical education this year. Dr. Donald T. Olson, di­rector of medical education for the hospital, scheduled each of the hos­pital's interns (as well as interns from St. Joseph's Hospital) to sit as an expert witness in one of the court's jury trials. 
Prof. Edward F. Barrett, director of the practice court, will present three lectures to the doctors on medical jurisprudence and the trial of personal injury actions. Professor Barrett's first lecture, "The Doctor in Court," was given at the hospital Aug. 27. 
Legal Aid and Defender Association. 
Richard A. Muench, assistant direc­tor of the Legal Aid and Defender Association, represented Notre Dame's volunteer assistants to the indigent at a seminar on recent Su­preme Court decisions on civil liber­ties at the University of Michigan in July. Faculty. Assistant Dean Thomas F. Broden Jr. KSG was appointed to the diocesan human relations com­mission by Bishop Leo Pursley in August. Dean Broden is one of 23 lajmnen and 15 priests appointed to 
by THOMAS L. SHAFFER 

that commission and to a commis­sion on ecumenical activity. 
Rev. William M. Lewers CSC, who teaches courses in torts and inter­national law at the Law School, spent the summer as temporary pas­tor of a parish in Jackson, Miss. He was joined there by several Holy Cross seminarians and by two stu­dents from the Law School. Father Lewers also attended the White House conference, "To Fulfill These Rights," in May as a representative of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC and in June was an invited delegate at the conference's second session. 
Adjunct Professor Conrad L. Kel­lenberg spent the summer establish­ing the Neighborhood Legal Services Program in South Bend. The pro­gram hired two Notre Dame law students this summer and aims at involving many more in co-cur­ricular projects for the poor. Prof. Kellenberg, who spent the 1964-65 academic year as visiting professor of law at the University of East Africa, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, participated in a conference on "Law Faculty and Curricula in Anglophonic Africa," in New York in August. 
Prof. Thomas L. Shaffer was a delegate from Indiana to the Einnual meeting of the Young Lawyers Sec­tion of the American Bar Associa­tion. Recent Faculty Publications. G. Rob­ert Blakey, "Obscenity and the Su­preme Court" in America magazine and a review of Gerber's Sea;, Por­nography and Justice in The Notre Dame Lawyer. (Prof. Blakey is spe­cial consultant to the President's Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice.) 
Edward J. Murphy, "Facilitation and Regtdation in the Uniform Com­mercial Code" in the June issue of 
The Notre Dame Lawyer. 
Roger Paul Peters, a review of Marcus' One-Dimensional Man in the June issue of T/ie Notre Dame Lawyer. 
Thomas L. Shaffer, "Fiduciary Power to Compromise Claims" in the May New York University Law Re­view; "Life Insurance Proceeds in Trust" in the July Res Gestae; and a review of Mishkin and Moris' On Law in Courts in the Journal of Legal Education. 
Alumni. Dennis Powell '63L has been appointed head of the Santa Rosa oflBce of California Rural Legal Assistance, Inc., a federally funded services program for farm workers and other poor persons residing in the rural areas of California. • 
KATHLEEN AND STANLEY FARMANN: new propriefors of the law library. 
^^'^•-^ 
ALABAMA 
John A. O'Biicn, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birming­ham, Ala. 
ALASKA John S. Htllenthal, '35, Bo i 941, Anchorage, Alaska. 
ARIZONA 
P/ioCTiit—John P. McSlianc '55, 3208 West Elm St., Phocnl\, Ariz. 83017 Tucson—I. "Buddy" Goldman, '36, 
3932 E. Poc, Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANSAS 
fort 5mi(*—James A. Gilter, '48, 3715 Free t'czry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 
LitlU Roci—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Cresttvood, Little Rock. Ark. 
CALIFORNIA 
Bakersfield—belaid L. Bamett, '56. 1415 18lh St., Apt. 316, Bakcisficld, Calif. 
Ctnlroi—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secrc­tart), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. 
Lot Angeles — Tliomas \V, Powers, '36. 3205 Nebraska PI., Costa Mesa, Calif. 
Northern—Edu-atd E. ^^adigan '54, 5528 Glenbrook Dr., Oakland, Calif. 
Oranee County—^Thomas J. Celzinff­cr, '53, 2212 E. WUhirc Avi£, FuIIenon. Calif. 
Sacramento—^Franfc Gcremia Jr. '60, 8424 Lake Forest Dr. Sacramento, Calif. 
San Dieso —John B. Morgan, '40, 
7721 Marie St., La Mesa, Calif. 
San Fernando Valley—Robert Hunter, '52. 8757 Jumilla Ave, Northridge, Calif. 
.Ton Gabriel VaUey — William T. Huston, '31, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los .Angeles 17, Calif. 
ItVjt-Crntro/—E. Stuart Hilbert. '63, 1901 Halforf, No. 105, Santa Clara, CalU. 
COLOR.ADO Colorado Sprinss — Lt. Col. Malliam 
M. Wakin, '52, Quartcre No. 6410E, Air Forct Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Denver — Edu-ard M. Malioney. '52, 950 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80201 
CONNECTICUT 
Connecticut Valley—Robert L. Mc-Goldrick, '56, 15 Drury Lane, W. Hartford, Conn. 
Fairfield County^^ordoa J. DiRcnzo '55, 1971 Btt>nson Rd., Fairfield, Conn. 
Naugatuek—^Tliomas K. Hubbard, '36, P.O. Box 523, Litdifield, Conn. Nezo Haren—Dr. Robert T. Warner, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamden 
17, Conn. 
DELAWARE 
Robert E. Daley '58, I2I2 Crestover Rd., Graylj-n Crest, Wifmincton, Del. 19803 • ' 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA Walter J. Brennan, M.D., '41, 700 Duke St., Alexandria, Va. 
FLORIDA 
Central Fla. ~ William H. Rickc, '36, 2013 Falmouth Rd., MaitUind, Fla. 32751 
Ft. Lauderdale—Robert P. Blaikie, '56, 4411 N.E. 15lh Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fkt. 33308 
Greater Miami—George F. Hero, '52, 40 N.E. 75th St., ^tiami, Fla. 
North F/o. —Robert W. Schellen­berg, '48. 6842 San Sebastian Ave, Jacksonville, Fla. 
Palm Beach County—John W. Dell '62, 153 S. Worth Ct., W. Palm Beach. Fla. 33405 
Pentaeola — Tliomas Kane, '57, P.O. Bos 8, Pcnsacola. Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa — Mark E. Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta — Joseph S. Signiago, '48, 4720 Chenywood Lane, Atlanta, Ga. 
HAWAII 
Hauati—.Albert Lum, '57, 2264 Kaneaizi St., Honolulu, Ha«-aii 96813 
IDAHO Frands H. Hicks, '49, 1180 Phelps Circle. Mountain Home, Idaho. Idaho Falls — James SI. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS Aurora — John G. Bryan. '54, 111 Downer Place, Aurora, HI. 

Central /Hinoii—Albert O. Eck, Jr., '58, Old Jacksom-illc Rd., Spring­field, III. 
Chicago — William D. Reynolds, '54, 9339 Monliccllo, E\-anston, III. Decatur—^Joseph T. Donovan, '56, 
R. No. 1, Illiopolis, III. 62539 Eastern /«. — Ricluird J. .Miles, '55, 3810 East Rd., Danville, 111. Fox Valley—Gearsc R. Schmidt, '29, 
620 Summit St.. Elgin, III. 7o/iV/—Richard E. McHugh, '43, 
R.R. 2, Manhatun. III. 
McHenry County — William M. Car­roll, Jr.. '43, 329 Lake St., Wood­stock, III. 
Peoria—Laais Zumbahlen '49, 2903 N. Easton PI.. Peoria, 111. 60604 
Rockjord — Robert E. Downer '32, 4322 BrendenwBod Rd., Rockford, lU. 
Rack River Valley — Paul L. Berret­tini, '55, 609 Crawford Ave., Dixon, 111. 
Southern Cook County — Robert N. Caffarelli. '55, 20851 Sparta Lane, Obmpia Fields, III. 60461 
INDIANA 
Calumet District — Robert J. Welsh, Jr., '56, 7000 Chicago Ave., Gary, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—Tliomas Adams, 1521 E. Walnut St., ifuncie, Ind. HHort —James D. Ash, '33, 1151 
Strong Ave., Elkliart, Ind. 
Fort Wayne — John A. Haley, Jr., '51, 6735 Hillonia Dr., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46809 
Indianapolis — Robert L. Kessing, Jr., '49, 5646 N. Delairarc St., Indian­apolb, Ind. 46220 
Michigan City — Robert E. Miller '57, 1524 Springland Ave.. Potlawat­tomi Park, Nlichigan City, Ind. 46360 
St. Joseph rnf/q. —Edward T. Mc­Carthy, '53, AlcCarthy Insurance Agency. Marycrcst Bldg., South Bend. Ind. 
Terre Haute — Michael H. Keams, '60, 1642 S. 5th St., Terre Haute, Ind. 
Trl^tatc — Al H. Harding, Jr., '39, 3018 East Mulberry, E\-ansville, Ind. 
IOWA 

Burlington — Joseph Ridge, '53, 1721 West Acres, Burlington, Iowa. 
Des .Moines—.\mhony M. Critelli '52, 619 San'ngs & Loan Bldg., Des Moines, Iowa 50309. 
Dubuque—Re\*. William Kimsch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Festina, Iowa. 
Stoux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Quad Cities —John M. Nolan. '54, 11 Sunset Circle, Bettendorf, lou^ 
KANSAS 
Eastern Kansas—^. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 5iifmn—Albert J. McLean. '31, 1410 Higlibnd Ave., Salina, Kan. Wichita — Will!.im T. Davitt, '56, 204 Bitting Bldg., IVichita, Kan. 67202 
KENTXrCKY 
Robert G. Huetz. Jr., '38. 12310 Davidson Dr., Woodland Hills, Ky. 
LOUISIANA New Orleans—S.d\v:ad F. Sporl, Jr., 
'34, United Fruit Co.. 321 St. Cliarles Ave, New Orleans, La. 70112 
Northern Louisiana—^Dr. Edt\'ard R. Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., Shreveport, La. 
MAEVE Anthony E. Sili-a. '56. 224 Walnut St., South Portland, Maine 
MARYLAND Dn/limor^—James Mutscheller '52, 305 
E. Highficld Rd., Baltimore, Md. 21218 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County—Harold C. Mc-Kenna '61, 142 Benedict Dr., Pitts­field, Mass. 01201 
Boston — Robert L. Marr, '58, 34 Melrose St., Boston. Mass. 02116 
Pioneer Valley — Willbm A. Hurley, '28, 33 Elm St., Springfield, Mass. 01103 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Cr«J:—RajTOond R. Allen, 40, 1009 Security National Bank Bldg., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonaid, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles. Mich. 
Blue Water District — William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 
Dearborn — Charles B. Kilz, '58, 704 Sandra, Dearborn Heights, Mich. 48127 • 
Detroit —C. M. Verbicst, '20, 1101 Washington Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 48226 
ffint —Alfred Mansour. '51, G-4295 Corunna Rd., Flint, Mich. 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wnght & Zinn, iCchaels Bldg. Ironwood. Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
—H. Edw-ard Prein, '55, 4991 Bluff 
Dr., N.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Huiu:athaland — Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Ludington St., Escmaba, ^^cll. 
Jackson — CjTil J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — George R. Laure '38, 8212 Sliaver Rd., Kabmazoo. Mich. Lansing — John F. Powers, '55, 1500 
W. Washtenaw Ave, Lansing, Mich. .Uonrof—Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 Riverview, Afonroe, Mich. 
Mtiskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Rcnecr St., Muskegon, Mich. 
Northland—Henry J. Lauerman, '23, 1975 Riverside Ave, IVfarinette. Wis. 
Saginaw Valley — Lawrence A. Smith, '31. 1305 Avalon, Saginaw. Mich. 48603 
Top ol Michigan — Edward L. Molo­ney, '17 416 East State St., Che. boj-gan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 

Ttcin CifiM—Thomas H. Stahl, '54, 2801 Wavzata Blvd., Minneapolis. Minn. 55405 
MISSISSIPPI 

Willbm H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
AHSSOURI 

Kansas Cilj^Charles L. O'Neill. '57, 6820 Dclraar, Shawnee Slission, Kansas. 
St. Louis — Joseph B. McGlynn, '55, 7319 Cltanibcrlain, University City. Mo. 
MONTANA 

Robert T. O'Leary, '54, 2920 Floral Blvd., Butte, Mont. 
N'EBRASKA 

Omaha and Council Bluffs — Robert A. Rohling. '30. 55U1 Harney, Omaha, Neb. 68132 
NEVADA 

Rex A. Bell, '57, 304 Fremont St., Las Vegas, Nev, 
NEW JERSEY 

central _ John R. Afullcn, *53, RJJ. 3, SomcrxHIc, NJ . 
Nrw Jersey Shore — Ptrlcr M. Bel­mont, '44. 160 Rivctcdgc Rxl., New Shrcu-sbury, NJ . 
New Jersey—Jamis A. Scbold, Jr., '50. 507 Bloomficld Ave, ^(ontcIai^, 
N.j. 

South Jersey — James B. Carson, *56, 624 Clinton ATC., Haddonficid, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO William B. Benedick, '54, 4601 Haines Ave., Albuquerque, N.Kl. 
NEW YORK 

Albany — Frank E. O'Brien, '58, 99 Brookline Ave, Albany, N.Y. Buffalo — Edward C. Cosgrove. '55, 53 Reed Ave, Lackau'anna, N.Y. 
J. Hawk, '55, 625 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 
Victory, Lima, Ohio. 
Central — Kevin J. Ryan. '61, 400 Norlhfield Way, Camillus, N.Y. 13031 
Golden Cirrfe—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parku-ay Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley — Tliomas E. Digan, '52, 40 Fuller Lane, Hyde Park, N.V. 
Mohawk ToHo^Michael J. SfcGuiri, '49, 171 Roosevelt Dr., Utica, N.Y. New York City—Gordon L. Forester, '47, 24 Ward Ave, Westbury, N.Y. Rochester ~mnhm D. OToole, '39, 101 Mayflower Dr., Rochester, N.Y. Schenectady—Robert J. Cichocki, '56, 
272 Closson Rd., ScoUa, N.Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York." Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, 
'34. 201 Federation Bldg., Elmira, N.Y. 
Triple Cities — Frank if. Linehan, '45, 2 Elizabeth St., MR 97, Bing­liamton, N.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA Donald J. Kclsey, '48, 1115 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. NORTH DAKOTA William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highbnd Acres, Bismarck, N.D. 
OHIO ^A-rOR—James D. Detding. '61, 230 Dordicster Rd., Akron 13, Ohio. 
Canton — Robert A. Ricliatd, '56, 1103 Manor Ave. S.W., Canton, Ohio. 
Cincinnati — Robert B. Frolichcr '54, 6619 Rapid Run, Cincinnati, Ohio 43233 
Cleveland—Fred S. Naegclc. "48, 1075 SyK-an Ave, Lakewood, Ohio 44107 Co/um6iil—William F. Slife '61, 841 **F" E. Granville Rd., Columbus, Ohio 43224 
Dayton—Tliomas W. Eisenliauer, '58, 4724 Ackcrman Blvd., Da\-ton, Ohio 45429. 
Hamilton—Jerome A. R>*an, '41, 353 South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. Mansfield — Herbert J. Frye. '40, 740 
N. Henr>- St., Crestline, Ohio 
Norlhweslem—Lco 

**OTREDAME 
ft 
\aG6 
NOTRE DAME NIGHT AT THE BUFFALO RACEWAY was right, president of the ND Club of Buffalo while holding 
highlighted by the presentation of an ND blanket to the horse is James J. Dunnigan Jr., vice-president and Barra Billy, driven by Delbert Manges and winner of the general manager of the track. feature race. Making the award is Edward C. Cosgrove, 
Okio I'o/7o—Robert R. Sincavich, '50, 134 Grant Ave, Wheeling, W. Va. SanJiuky — Ricliaid C. Ilohler. '47, 2G03 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. Tfffin — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 
Sycamore St., Tiilin, Ohio. Toledo—J. Blaine Wiley, '57, 550 East Fifth St., Perr>-sbiirg, Ohio 
Yaungstozvn — Ceorce A. Wclsch, Jr., '48, 2540 Skyirac Dr., Youngstonli, Oliio 
OKLAHOMA 
OUahoma City — Daniel J. Kclcher, '58. 4201 N.W. 61, Oklahoma City, Okla. 
Tabn—Bernard J. Sulliran, '39. 717 Kennedy BIdg., Tulsa, Okla. 74103 
OREGOJf 
Dr. Edward M. Scott, '46. 3632 N.E. Davis, Portbnd, Ore . 97232 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Penniyhania—Dr. George W. Katier, '41, U.S. Bank BIdg. Johnstown, Pa. 
ErU — Richard T. ifcCormick, '55, 4425 Chcrrj- St., Eric, Pa. Hcrrilbure—Donald R. Meek, '50. 520 Park Ave., New Cumberland, Pa. 
Lehigh Valley — David E. Xohn, '55, 835" Edward Ave, Allentown, Pa. 1810} 
Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsrille, Pa. Philadelphia —\'i'M\:aa A. Whiteside, Jr., 'SI, 7808 Cobden Rd., Lave­rock, Philadelphia 18. Pa. Pittsburch — J. Peter Frid.iy. '50. 821 Ella Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. I52I6 Seranton—Earl E. Holmes, Jr., '54, 105 Belmont Ave., darks Green, Pa. 

Wilkei-Iiaire — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wiltes-Barrc, Pa. 
IVilliamsport — Joseph F. Orso," Jr., '55, 822 Franklin St., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS Francis J. Conforti, *43, Education 
Funds, Inc., 10 Dorrance St., 
Providence, R.L 
SOUTH CAROLINA 
Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., Westwood, Cluirleston, S.C. 
TENNESSEE 
Chattanooga — Ed\%*ard F. Davis, '43, 506 Barrington, Signal Mountain, Tenn. 
Memphis — Roy E. Gillia. '56, Peat Jlariiicfc MitchcJI & Co., 2500 Sterick BIdg., Memphis, Tenn. 
Xashville — William J. Faimon. '54, 6705 Rodney Ct., Nashville, Tenn. 37205 
TEXAS Bo/to — John C. Rogers, '55, P.O. Box 1232, Dallas, Tc.t. 75201 El Polo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 01i\'ia Circle, El Paso, Te-xas. 
Houston — Christie S. Flanagan '60, 1915 Briarmcad, Houston, Te.'C. 77027 
Midland-Odessa — John L. Buckley, 
•38, 2212 Harvard Dr., Midland, Te-tas 
San Antonto — S. Chilton ^favcrick, '61. 110 Auditorium Circle, San 
UT.AH Don J. Roney. '58. 320 East Fourth, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
VIRGINIA Bernard E. Nicrlc '58. 8652 McCaw Dr., Bon Air, Va. 23235 
Charles A. LaFratIa, '47. 130J Alsatia Dr., Richmond, Va. 
TW«i;a(«r—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 153 Cedar Ln., Lynnharcn, Va. 
WASHINGTON Spokane—Dr. D. Curran Higgins, *49, 
S. 1103 Wall St., Spokane, Wash. 39203 
I)'«;crj:—Thomas P. May, '55. 3632 Tenth Ave. North, Rcnton, Wash. 
AVEST VIRGINIA 

Cyril M. Reich. '39, 903 S. Drew St., St. Albans, W.Va. 
Central — John D. Julian. '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarbbutg, W.Va. 
wscoNsm 

Fox Hirer Valley—Robert J. Simkins. *56. 400 S. Dougbs, Applcton, Wise. 54912 
Creen Bay—Dr. Daniel W. Shea. '48, 718 E. Cass St., Green Bay, \V!sc. 
La Crosse—^Thomas E. Jacb. '56. 336 
E. JefTetson St., Caledonia, Minn. 
.l/CTriV;—Augustus H. Stange. '27, 102 
S. Prospect St., Jfcrrill, ^Visc 
Mihvaukee—John A. Schloegcl, '54, 3976 X. Bav Ridge Ave., Mil­waukee, Wis. 53217 
i^orthwest Wirconsin — Ben M. Siri­anni, Jr., '60, 2719 Keith St., Eau Claire, Wise 54701 
South Cenlral — yhonas M. Hinkes, '51, 5414 Oorsett Dr., Madison, Wis. 53711 
WYOMING 
Patrick H. Mecnan, '49, Midwest BIdg., P.O. Box 481. Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 
Canada — Paul H. LaFnunboise. 'Si, St. Hihire Rom-illc Co., 212 Blvd. Richelieu, Quebec. Canada. 
Chile — Rev. Francis A. Prtjvcnzano, C.S.C.. '42, St. George's College, Aven, Pedro de Valdivm 1423, San­tbgo. Chile. 
Manila — Lawrence J. Gotuaco, '54. 
P.O. Box 1152, Manila, Philippines. 
Mexico City—Tclmo De Landero. '37, Eugenio Sue No. 220, Mexico City, Mexico. 
Pakistan — Rev. Frank C. Burton. CSC '33. Notre Dame College, Dacca—2—. East Pakistan 
Panama — Lorenzo Romagoza. '45, 
P.O. Box a30-P, Panama, Panama. 
Peru—Enrique LuUi, *45, Cuzco 440, L:m3, Peru. 
Puerto Rieo—Julio Vizcarrondo, Jr., '56, P.O. Bax 9004. Santurce, Puerto Rico. 
Rome — Vincent G. MeAloon, '34, (Secretary). Pabzzo Brancaccio. Largo Brancaccio. 82, Rome. Italy. 
Tokyo—Kn: Peter T. Moriwaki. S.J.. '65. Sophia University 7. Kiocho, Chiyodak, Tokyo, Japan. 

Antonio, Texas. 
JAMES D. COONEY wise known as "This is Your Life, Nick Rassas" in 
Assistant Alumni Secretary glorious technicolor and 16mm soimd, has journeyed from New Jersey to the Philippines. The popularity of this year's edition of the "Highlights" is a far cry 
A 
WIDE variety of pro­
grams ranging from a 
gala five-state Notre Dame 
family reunion at Cedar 
Point to deep-sea fishing 
trips (West Coast) and 
honest-to-goodness clam­bakes (East Coast, of course) have helped ward off the summer doldrums for a host of ND Clubs. 
The Cedar Point affair, now in its third year, was hosted by the ND Club of Cleveland and provided thrills, spUls and reminiscences at this "Disneyland of the Midwest" and home of the forward pass. 
Sandwiched in among the extremes were the ever-popular golf outings. At last count at least 40 ND Clubs hit the links en masse this year. Moose Krause and Coach Parseghian and his staff lent an oflScial and — in the case of Ara's own legerdemain with a mashie — a professional touch to the proceedings. Ara's staff has proved deadly accurate on the greens coast to coast No little credit is due those noon staff conferences on the "Rock" putting green. Those daily sessions have also provided some exhilarating Satur­day afternoons in the fall. 
As interest mounts for the upcoming gridiron sea­son, the "1965 Football Highlights" provide added in­terest in Club functions. The iilms have seen more capitals than an IBM Electric. The production, other­from similar issues of recent years dubbed by one Club President as "still pictures." At Home. A host of Clubs have organized Freshman Sendoff programs for early fall, welcoming the new constituency, moms and dads, and offering a word or two of sage advice to the incoming frosh, Jim Gib­bons, assistant director of public relations, attended eight of them, while John Crowe and Dick Ruwe of the Foundation staff and Jack Broderick of the Law School attended others. In some cities, graduated 
ABOARD WEEKEND FESTIVITIES Pat Cannon, Fred Naegele and daughter, and Jack Doyle. 
: ATLANTA 

Rev. THEODORE HESBURGH CSC arrived in Atlanta to deliver the commencement address at Atlanta U. His \"isit At*as sandwiched between his trip from Zunch, Sivilzcrland and a White House conference in Washington, DC. Despite his rather hea\-y schedule Father Hcsbuigh met with tlie Notre Dame Club on May 31 for an 
8:30 am brcaUast at the Parliament House. Some 40 members of the Club and their tm-es attended this early morning affair. 
On July 9, the Club organized and sponsored a group to attend the AU-.Amcrican Coaches' Foot­ball game which featured DICK ARRIXGTOX and NICK RASS.^ from last year's football squad. A cocktail hour preceded and followed the ball game. 
In dosing, I have but one small thing to say. I am in DESPER.\TE need of seven {/) tickets to the Army-Notrc Dame game and will ap­preciate any and all help that you may be able to lend to help achieve that end. 
— JAMES A. EICHELBERGER, Secretary 
AURORA, ILL. = 

The annual Notre Dame Club of Aurora Golf Outing ^\'ns held at the Aurora Country Club in June. It was a well-attended and much-enjoyed occasion \niii the Iiighlight of the program being the presentation of the Gil Bo^n Trophy to the Club. This is a permanent trophy to be presented each year to tlie winner of the touma-ZQent. It was given, to our President, JOHN BRYAN, in behalf of the Club from our two great friends, ZIGMOXT CZAROBSKI and GEORGE COXXOR — t^vo All-Americans in every respect. George and Ziggy donated this trophy to the Club in respect to the memory of Gil Br>an, their \'cry close friend and ours. 
The appearance of TOM PAGXA, backficld coach, ^\-as another bright spot. His talk was in­teresting and thoroughly cnjoj-cd. Our members consider htm, a great addition to the Notre Dame tradition. 
— DICK REEDY, Secretary 
BALTIMORE 

Leading the Baldmore Club is a new slate of officer: Prcs. JAMES MUTSCHELLER; Sec ANTHONY MILETO; and Treas. RAYMOND RAEDY. 
On the agenda for the fall actinties are the Sept. 21 Kick-OfT meeting and the trip to Phila­delphia for the Na\'y game, Oct. 29. 
Four outstanding Cathoh'c high school seniors have been selected as recipients of the ND Club of Baltimore Award Medal for 1966. These young men, their schools and area of ncliicvement arc: Richard Trainor, Calvert Hall College, \-aIcdic­
torian; Ra>-mond LaVerghetta, Mt. St. Joseph, classical studies; Timothy Pac, Towson Catholic, Service airard; FhJIip O'Donncll, Loyola, classical studies. Another distinguished Loyola grad, Colm Gage, has chosen to enter Notre Dame this fall after being awarded a full, four-year college scholarship. 
— ANTHONY MILETO, Secretary 
BOSTON 

The second annual Golf Outing was held in late June at the Wollaston Golf Club. LOU DI GIOV.\NNI won the low gross and JOE KIN­KEALY w'On the low net. Other golfers in at­tendance and at the banquet that evening were: NEIL FOWLER '47, DON COTE '52, DICK ARRINGTON '66, ROGER TOUGAS '58, HARRY MARR, TOM AVELCH '59, BARRY m'NES '60, DICK MURPHY '58, JACK LA­MERE '53, TOM KINNE.\LY '37, DICK WAL­WOOD '60, AL FRAUGHT *5B, JOHN GOR­MAN, HARRY MARR JR. '62, BILL STEW­ART '43, CHICK GALLAGHER, CHARLIE BURKE '49 and BOB MARR '58, Club president. 
John Mclncmey of Our Lady's High School in NcwtonWIIc is the freshman recipient of this year's Boston Club Schobrship. This scholarship was made possible from the Notre Dame-Mich­igan State closed-circuit telecast that the Club sponsored last fall. John dlspla>xd high qualities in scholarship and athletics. The scholarship com­mittee feels he will make a fine addition to the freshman class. 
On Sept. 7 the Freshman Send-Off was held Again this year we had JIM GIBBONS from the University to indoctrinate the incoming fresh­men in the ND spirit. 
Alany of the members are making plans to go to Philadelphia for the Na\-y game this fall. Other forthcoming e\ents: Notre Dame Night at Suffolk Downs, a Victory Dance following the Notre Dame-Pitt game and the annual Com­munion breakfast in December. 
— JACK LAilERE, Secrctarr 
BUFFALO 

The annual Notre Dame Night at Buffalo Raceway was held June 22. A large cn>ivd was in attendance to see Barra Billy win the fea­tured race. The coveted ND blanket was pre­sented by ED COSGROVE, Club president. 
The Buffalo Qub lost its oldest member, D.^VIEL M. DONOVAN '08, Nortli Tona­wanda, N.Y. ^vho died May 29 after a sliort illness. 
•^ JAMES E. SEYMOUD, Secretary 

^^ CENTRAL NEW YORK ^ ^ 
Students and Incoming freshmen from the area were entertained at the annual Student Send-ofT Dinner held prior to the opening of the fall school semester. This gathering gave the new mcD an opportunity to meet Alumni and discuss with them their hopes and expectations as stu­dents at Notre Dame. 
— ART KANERVIKO, Secretary 

The June election meeting was held at the Burger Beer Tap Room, which Is the sponsor for the Notre Dame football games in Cincin­nati. Elected President was ROBERT FROH­CHER; Vice-president, WILLIAM BURKE; Treasurer, JOHN T. MORRISSEY, and Secre­tary, MICH.\EL L. MORRISSEY. A standing ovation was given to retiring President CHUCK LIMA, Highlight of the evening was a report on the cuTTcnt and future progress of the University given by Foundation representative, John Crowe. 
On July 20, 38 brave souls weathered 98 degree temperature to take to the links in the annual Golf Outing held at the Hyde Park Country Club. Following the dinner. Chairman BARRY SAVAGE presented several awards to many infamous golfers. Top awards went to JIM STAHL who won **lovv scratch" with a score of 74, and PAUL SHUFF who won the net low award trophy. BOB BURKE rendered his annual rhetorics before the gathering. 
The annua] Alumni picnic was held Tuesday, September 6, at the &faple RIdgc Lodge ir Mount Airy Forest. Co-chairman DICK CASTEL LINI and TOM MULVIHILL presented the nc^ freshman students and their fathers to the grouj-
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBE 

('66) seniors and Honor Council members made brief presentations on student life. The SendofE has become an increasingly popular ingredient in late-summer Club programming offering a distinct service to new members of the ND family. 
From sporting trips to the Jets 'n Mets to a Uni­versal Notre Dame Night at the Waldorf-Astoria, the ND Club of New York City has offered a varied and substantial program of activities. Club President Gordon Forester, ably plunging into his second term of oflBce, shepherded yours truly through the high­ways and byways of the Big City this summer. Dis­cussions with Gordon and Club officers during the visit ranged from the establishment of a central Club 
CEDAR POINT MIDWAY Site of the Third Annual ND Midwest Family Festival. 
office to the organization of professional groups of Alumni within the Club structure and how, generally, to involve more of the nearly 3,000 Alumni in the area. With Gordon at the helm Euid a capable group of committed Alumni behind him — • • • 
Ed Fitzpatrick, Gus Hardart, John \A/MII"I-MacNamara, and Jim McDevitt to »»lllll mention only a few—this Club . . is on the move. \y\Xin^I^2 
Hats off to the ND Qub of ^ ^ " '^-^^ Cleveland on the brink of celebrating its 50th an­niversary. Club President Fred Naegele and officers are busy preparing for the gala event which will be somehow less gala because of the death this summer of Ray T. Miller '14, Club Pioneer and ND man par excellence. And Abroad. As the postman drops this at your door­step, your humble assistant alumni secretary will be winging (hopefully) over (hopefully) the Andes — God and the airline mechanics willing. A Ford Foim­dation program of assistance to the Pontifical Catho­lic University of Lima, Peru provides the visa. Jim Frick, VP of public relations and development at ND, and yours truly will offer whatever advice and elbow grease we can towEurd the establishment of an office of PR and development and an Alumni Association. The trip affords an excellent opportunity to execute a long-overdue plan: visitation with some 800 Alumni and friends in several countries south of the border. So, the next column may be a PS from Peru (or a Post Mortem from Panama). 
Hasta luego! 

The Club is planning to have a football week­end raffle for the Purdue game as well as to make arrangements to televise a Notre Dame game in Cincinnati this fall. 
— MICHAEL L. XIORRISSEY, Secretary 
CLEVELAND 

Tlie tliird Annual Cedar Point FcstK'al \%'a5 lield an the second weekend in July and anotlicr record turnout A^'OS on Iiand to enjoy the fes­tivUtcs. Approximately 330 registered guests stayed the weekend with another 50 families attending each day. The Club wishes to thank RICHARD 
H. MILLER for his chairmanship of this event for the third straight year. Much time and effort were expended by Dick, and llie results were more than gratifying. JOHN P. COYNE assisted as Co-Chairman. 
The Club would like to express their sj-mpathy to the families of R.\Y T. MILLER and ROGER BRENXAX, wiia passed away recently. Ray MJKcr was instrumental in the organization of the Cleveland Club and ser\-cd as its first President from 1914 to 1917. Ray was also a Notre Dame *'Man of the Year.'* 
Roger Brcnnan was quite active in Cleveland Club activities and for the past several years served as liaison man for the Noire Dame Laiy Scliool in tlic Cleveland area, 
— JOHN P. COYNE, Secretary 
= DEARBORN 

May and June General Meetings, hosted by jn t ENGLEHART and FRANK SHERIDAN, began late and ended early (in the morning). President CHARLIE KITZ hosted a board of directors meeting \%'hcrc, between periods of the NHL play-ofi" game. BILL DECRICK. DICK KING, and JOHN FISH discussed 1966-67 sched­ule of fun. 
Despite crowded conditions JERRY GASS and JOE BYRNE were able to scat their families at the annual Communion Breakfast. Rt. Rev. Walter J. Schoenhcrr, pastor of Blessed Sacra­ment Catliedral, gave an informal talk on the **Intcnt of Vatican II.** He smilingly demon­strated the art of patience when he was last pcr­'son to be served brcakf:tst. 
On a windblown hill overlooking scenic Camp Dearborn, BILL DOSMANN, JIM WALLACE and a small band of picnic people braved the elements to attend our Summer Picnic ED 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 
CAWI and CHARLIE KITZ provided suds and surprises and pop and prizes. JERRY KELLY sandbagged for the grand prize, a decanter of spirits. Three babysitters attempted to handle almost 100 tots — enough said? 
— BOB MISSEL, Secretary 
EAST PAKISTAN^ 

WARREN RICHESON, who sot his itS m math at Notre Dame in '&t and who taught math there in '64-'65, recently spent some weeks in Dacca, East Pakistan. He was a member of the seven-man Columbia U. team (operating under US AID auspices) which conducted an experimental program for local math and physics teachers on the intermediate level. On the evening ot July 25 just prior to his departure for the States, War­ren and the Fathers at Notre Dame College had an enjoyable gcl-togcthcr at the College. 
— REV. F. J. BURTON, Secretary 
ERIE^ 

The Notre Dame Alumni Club of Eric held 
their annual summer picnic on July 23. The 
ND group, as in the past, honored all of the 
incoming freshmen. The affair was held at the 
Leo Bniggcr's summer home. RICH '55 and 
JOHN '33 McCORMICK were the co-chairmen 
for the affair and did a splendid job. 
Among those who attended the picnic were Messrs. & Mmes. WILLIAM A^fAN^^ JOSEPH BARBER '36, ROBERT BARBER MO, THO.\fAS BATES '60, LEO BRUGGER '31, LEO BRUG­GER JR. '61, JOSEPH BI^VKE (Hon. '37), DONALD BUSECK *50, JACK DAUT, HOW­ARD ESSICK *41, WILLIAM GR.-\NT '45, ED­WARD KERN '56, HERBERT KERN '54, NOR­BERT LEWIS, WALTER LUEDTKE, ROBERT LUKES. '49, jni MAHONEY '51, JOHN -Afc-CORMICK (Hon. '17), JOHN McCORMICK JR. '53. TIM McCORMICK '55, RICH.\RD .Mc­CORMICK '55. Judge and Mrs. JAMES DWYER, ROBERT ROCHE, FRANK RILEY, LEWIS SHIOLENO M9, JOSEPH ST.ADLER *53, L/\W­RENCE STADLER '29. ROBERT WESCHLER, CHARLES WITTMANN '32, JOHN YOUNG '51. ANTHONY ZAMBR03KI '52, ROBERT GOULD and TONf McCOY. 
Also: BRUCE BIGWOOD '62, RICH ARRI.VG­TON. Rev. JOSEPH HIPP, LEO aXRNEY *30, JERRY EHRMAN, MIKE AIcCOR-MICK '61, JOHN PAL^^S.\NO '53, RON VOMERQ '63, 
DAVE STOUT '62 and DANE LUPO '69. 
The incoming freshmen honored this year were: 
Tom Gould and Mike McCoy. Wc of the Erie 
Club wish both boys the best of luck and hope 
these next four years vnU be memorable ones. 
Mike McCoy uill be a very busy Ircshman for 
the first semester as he will be playing with the 
freshtnaa football team. Dane Lupo is another of 
the newcomers this year. Dane is a transfer 
student from Gannon College and ^vill be a 
sophomore at ND. 
— LEO J. BRUGGER JR., Secretary 

^^^^ F=T. LAUDERDALE • 
Wc would like to welcome a few new mem­bers into the Club: FRANK T. FFTZSIMMONS '23, past president of the Chicago Club, JOSEPH 
E. BAU.MIE '55 and KEVIN ^L KYONS '62L. We are looking^ fonrard to their active associa­tion with tlic Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauder­dale. 
Last month we had an old-fashioned Men's Smoker and Card Night. .Among those present and having a good time were GEORGE J. ERNST '29, and his son, Fritz, a recent gradu­ate of the US Military Academy; FRANK CAREY *-l6; BOB GORE '31; FRANTC McGiNN '52; JOHN McGINN *5t; and BILL ZLOCH '66, former ^D quarterback. 
During the past few months one of our mem­bers has taken on a most challenging and difficult position as interim sheriff of Broward County. Wc would like to express our fondest congratu­htions for the excellent job THOMAS J. WALK­ER *42 has done. It has been a difGcult and 
sometimes thankless task which has been taken 
on at a great personal sacrifice. 
— JLM MOTSETT, Sccrelary 

^^^ ^ INDIANAPOLIS •• 
On June 23 close to a hundred Alumni enjoyed the annual Stag Outing. Chaired by the one and only 14 ft. 12 in. WALT S-AHM (with cooking by BILL S-AHM, "the most outstanding") the blast was a complete success. (We even made a dollar ninety-eight.) 
Golf, or the near facsimile of such, was played at the Broadmoor Country Club on July 21. DON STUHLDREHER turned out a fine event for the players and diners tliat evening. Guests included coaches from Xotrc Dame, Butler, In­diana U. and Purdue. 
^Vatcli tlic bulletins for up-coming events — tlierc's something for ex-eryonc in Indianapolis. 
— TOM BOWERS. Secretary 
Just a reminder to circle Oct. 29 on your calendar for an evening at. the Indianapolis Ath­letic Club. Chainnan JOHN WELCH is plan­ning a dinner dance Avhicli wc know will be out­standing. We arc counting on cver>t)nc's co­operation in making this a successful and mem­orable affair. Remember, this is intended to be our only fund-raising project for the schobrship fund. JACK RY.\X will chainnan and Dr. PAUL MULLER and DICK McXAMARA wiU make up the scholarship committee. Their task will be to review Iiigh school candidates and select a winner to be announced In the spring. 
I know all of you join mc in extending con­gratulations to LEO BARXHORST who last month was elected national president of the Notre Dame Monogram Club. This is a great honor and all of us are very proud of him. 
— BOB KESSING, President 
" KANSAS CITY, MO. ^^ ^ AND KANSAS 
On July 16, Mr. and Mrs. DICK PREZEBEL *35 were hosu to over 200 Notre Dame Alumni, wives and friends at the annual Summer Cocktail Party sponsored by the Auxiliary. As always, it was a very enjoj-able gathering and a fine oppor­tunity to see old classmates. 
New ofliccrs of the Notre Dame Auxiliary* were elected on May 10. They are: President—Mrs. 
R. K. Martin; Vice-president—Mrs. Carl F. Duno; Recording Sccrclary—Mrs. F. J. Stuchlik; Corresponding Secretary-Mrs. V. W. DcCourscy; Treasurer—Mrs. George J. McLiney; Auditor— Mrs. SaK-atorc S. Nigro. 
On October 8 25U fortunate members of the Club will be in Soutii Bend for the Notre Dame-Amiy game. TOM McKEON '54 is Chairman of the trip, testimony to his cffidcncj' and zeal as Treasurer and value to the Club. The football trips arc.one of the year's real highlights and are enjoyed and appreciated by all those who attend. 
Tlie Club is in the process of preparing a new" roster, which would be an impossible task without the assistance of the .Mumni Office. We arc alwa>"s anxious to hear from Alumni and friends who move to this area and urge any who do so to get in touch as soon as possible. 
_ TOM FLEMING, Secretary 
KENTUCKY '• 
Our annual June Dinner Meeting «"as held on the 22nd honoring the incoming Freshmen and their fathers. STEVE RICKERT '63, the Chair­man, presented- an interesting program with Wl­liam Cowger, former Mayor of Louisville, as guest spcakcr.­
On .-Vugust 16, the ND-Xavicr Outing took pbcc at Temple Valley CC. BOB LEHM.\NN '64, who never fails to lead a successful venture, was Ciiairman of. the event as well as a leader on the Softball field. 
JOE BOWLING has been bus>' compiling a current roster for the membership. Thanks, Joe! ^Vith the summer near a close, we wisli Ara 
great success with the Fighting Irish in '66. 
— GERRY BOLAND, Secretary 

^^^^ LOS ANGELES ^^^^ 
Tiie opening game with Purdue this year (Sept. 
24) will be on T\'^ nationally and the Michigan State game (Nov. 19) will be nationally teleWsed into Los .Angeles. Wc also have, on good authority, that KTLA, Channel 5, will carr>' cvcr>- Sunday (except Purdue, Michigan State and SC) the taped Notre Dame-game of the Saturday preced­ing. How*s that for exposure? 
Alumni and friends of Notre Dame gathered at the Hollj-wood-Rooscvelt Holel on June 2 to hear Coach Ara Parseghian outline the plans and prospects for the 1966 edition of the Fighting Irish. With 125 in attendance Coach Parseghian ran do\v*n the starting lineups for both the offen­sive and the defensive teams and generally gave the impression that he was pleased with the drills during spring practice. Surprise guest of the night was FRANK LE.-\HY who for the past few montlis has taken up residence in Anaheim in the hope that he will bnd an Anaheim fran­cliise in the American Football League. LEO TURGEON '42, member of the National Board of .Directors of the Alumni Association, put the 

GREATER CINCINNATI CLUB'S new officers for tlie 1966-67 season include 
(seated) Robert B. Frolicher, president; William E. Burke, vice-president; 
(standing) Michael Morrissey, secretary; and John Morrissey, treasurer. 
program together, and he was capably assisted 
by GENE CALHOUN '33. Both arc to be con­
gratulated for a job well done. 
On June 16 the Los Angeles Club held its 

annual Sports Stag Night at the Schlitz Brewery 
in Van Nu>-s. The turnout of 180, largest of 
any previous Sports Night, consumed plenty of 
beer (Schlitz said that more beer was consumed 
that night in the Brown Bottle Room than at 
any function the brewery lias Iiad since the last 
Notre Dame Alumni party) and was treated to 
a program of sports personalities. Speakers in­
cluded Fresco Thompson, vice-president of the 
Los Angeles Dodgers, Lew Stucck and John Jar-
dine, assistant coaches at UCLA, JACK SNOW 
'65, Los Angeles Rams' end, and TOM HAW­
KINS '59, Cincinnati Roj-als forward. Jim Raser 
of radio station KNX was master of ceremonies. 
Also in attendance were GERALD KELLY '67, 
PAUL SNOW '69, and GEORGE KUNZ '69, 
all current members of the ND football te.im. As 
a co-chainnan, this writer appreciates the assis­
tance he got from co-chairmen MIKE WOODS 
'62 and DON PETERS '55. Abo to JIM GILLIS 
'51, ED FOX *55, BRIAN O'NEILL '62, and 
FR^\XK COXATY '43 —thanks! A good time 
was had by all. 
President TOM POWERS *36 and vice-presi­dent JACK STEWART '59 selected WALT OS­GOOD '62 as one of the co-chairmen of the family picnic at the end of August. 
— BENJAMIX B. SALVATY, Secretary 

' MANSFIELD, OHIO ^^ ^ 
June 29 was the night that the Xotrc Dame Club of Mansfield held its annual sicak fry* at President HERB FRYE's cottage on Walton Lake. Seventy-five percent of the Club's members and their 'wives attended. A brief business meeting followed. The chainnen. of tlic committees for the remaining actix'itics of '66 were appointed. Co-chairmen for the annual football pilgrimage for the ND-Purduc game are C. J. KOZAK and 
A. J. COLEMAN. Mr. and ifrs. THOM.AS McHALE and Mr. and Mrs. F. S. COLEMAN will head the committee for the Holiday Dance. The ND Communion Sunday will be chairmaned by JAMES O'DONNELL. 
Many of the members reported tliat they were attending the ND weekend at Cedar Point. 
Our associate membership was increased by two during the month of June. A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. JAMES O'DONNELL and a son to Mr. and Mrs. JOHN O'DONNELL JR. 
— FRANCIS S. COLEMAN, Secretary 

^^ ^ MICHIGAN CITY, IND. . 
President BOB MILLER '57 of the Michigan City Alumni Club appointed MIKE CAULEY and Dr. FRANCIS KUB.IK co-chairmen of the football kick-off program sponsored by the local Club at St. Joseph Hall on Friday, Sept. 23, the eve of tlie Irish-Boilermaker game. DON illl ^ 
LER, famed member of the Four Horsemen, will 
address the group. AIso.scr\"ing on the committee 
arc BOB SHIEL, DON WENTLAND, Dr. ROB^ 
ERT- FROST, ED DWYER, BILL PRIEBE. 
EMMETT MILLER, CONRAD KOMINIAREK, 
Dr. JOE BERG.AN, Dr. C. L. KOLANCZYK, 
FRANNIE FEDDER and JOHN KELLY. The 
Club also heard LEOX DARGIS outline the pbns 
for the X'orthwestem bus trip. 
Final plans for the annual Splash Party were 
presented and it was announced tliat Coach Joe 
Yonto and his lovely bride, Betty, would attend. 
This c\'ent is organized by the wives of tlic 
Notre Dame rhembers. 
Five members of the XD Monogram Club were 
recent guests at "Miller Dorm" for twio week­
ends. Basketball team members BRIAX KELLER, 
JOHN TRACY and Capi. JIM MONAHAN and 
football team members STEVE QUINN and TOM 
O'LEARY were part of the recent Miss Indiana 
Pageant. Steven Quinn won the ann-wrcstling 
contest and u-as the official escort of Miss Indiana 
of 1965, the Irish Miss EUccn Smith. The other 
lads were escorts of the finalists with Brian's 
fimilist. Miss Jane Ann Rutlcdgc, winning the 
^liss Indiana title. 
BILL PRIEBE has been named ciiairman of 
the Communion Sundav. 
— ROBERT MILLER, President 

^^ ^ MOHAWK VALLEY ^^ ^ NEW YORK 
TIic Club held its annual outing at the Old Spain Inn, Chadwicks, N.Y. on June 23. About 30 Alumni, June grads, students and friends got together for the games, food and drinks. Sparked by the hitting and fielding of Dr. FRANK MARINO '36, the "old grads" pounded out a sparkling 18 to 16 victory -over the "new grads" captained by JIM OSTER '61. The gruelling three-inning game was marked by "heated rhu­barbs" but ND Softball commissioners ED SWEENEY '30 and TO.M GIRUZZI '33 kept the game under control. Outing Chairmen DAN CALLAN '49 and KEN MURPHY '54 each hit three home nms for the "old grads." JOE MARINO '66 pitched a fine game for the "new grads" and limited his dad to only two homers. A most cnjoj-able time MUS had by all and plans w|crc made for making the ne-xt year's outing bigger and better. 
— RAYMOXT> BELDEN, Secretary 
= OHIO VALLEY = 

A meeting of the Ohio Valley ND Club was held at the home of BOB SINCAVICH '50, Club President, July 26 to make plans for the coming year.^ A com roast in late August will start the activities. The Club's participation in a nation­wide closed circuit TV presentation of one of the ND football games was discussed. The follo\*ing members attended: GEORGE SARGUS '28, BILL iirrsCH '33, BOB FRIGGITH '49, BOB SIN­
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OaOBER 

CAVICH '50, JIM DAILER '50, HARRY BUCH '52, BILL BUCH '59. 
— BILL MITSCH, Secretary 
OREGON 

The Notre Dame Club of Oregon held a family picnic on July 31 at Cliampocg State Park, south ol Portland. Newly elcctcti vice-president RAY­MOND J. MARTIN '50 chairmancd the function and his hard w*ork and enthusiasm can be ac­credited for its ovcr^vhclming success. About 100 ND Alumni, their families and friends attended. The following were present: TOM TOMJACK '64, TOM HALEY '57, PHELAN THOMPSON '55, ART MUELLER '35, HANK PEAR '48, JOHN BURNS '58, Dr. FRANK NASH '45, Rev. JOHN WOLVLEAR '45 (Club chaplain), JIM MORAN '56, BILL .MEAGHERS '48, JACK RODGERS '52, MORRIS CONWAY Sr. '14, MORRIE CONWAY JR. '53, TOM MAGEE '32, RUSS NIEHAUS '48, Dr. ED SCOTT '46 (Club president), RAY MARTIN '50 (Club VP), J. MICHAEL WHITE '61 (Club treasurer), and JERRY BELL-VN '62 (Club secretary). AU agreed the family picnic should be an annual affair. 
— JERRY BELL\N, Secretary 
PEORIA, ILL. 

The newly elected officers for the upcoming year arc: LOU ZUMBAHLEX '49, Prcs.; BOB iL\NNL\ G '60, Vicc-pres.; MIKE RTTSCHEL '62, Secy.; and DAVE THOMAS '62^ Trcas. 
A family picnic is planned to kick off the new year. MIKE O'BRIEN '61 \vill be chairman along ^%•ith a newcomer to Peoria, JOHN HOF­FER '61 who will sen'c as assistant chairman. 
Our annual Back-to-School Dinner will be held the second week in September. Guest speaker for the event has not been set as of this ^>*riting. JOHN MANION '56 is chairman and expects to see a large turnout again this year. 
TIic Lt. James A. Cassidy Award for academic achievement was presented to an undergraduate student from Peoria who attended N.D. this past year. The a^\^rd is based on the student's gnidc point average and upon recommendation from his dean. The award was presented by JOHN E. CASSIDY SR. '17 who is on the Notre Dame Law Board of Trustees. 
Nc^re of tlic Peoria area Alumni includes the appointment of TONY BUSHELL '57 as direc­tor of the Peoria Deanery of the Council of Catholic Men. 
DAVID J. SHANAHAN, assistant director of the Notre Dame Foundation had a busy day in Peoria on Thursday, July 28. He spoke on WMBD, CBS information program, **Topic." The subject of his Wsit with MC Tom Larson was Alums and their Alma Mater. It w*as ar­ranged by Alumni Gift Chairman JOHN MANION '56. Mr. Slianahan was gntti6cd in receiving tlic acceptance of JOHN E. C/\SSIDY SR. '17 OS area Foundation chairman. THOMAS 
P. LISTON *40 will scr\'c as cliairman of the corporate gifts committee. 
D.\VE THOMAS '62 has just returned from a skiing trip to Chile. The THONfAS A. KELLY's '56 liavc a new baby boy named BRENAN AL\URICE. Abo, JAMES MASTERSON '59 and his wife now iiavc a new baby girl. 
— iHCHAEL C. RITSGHEL, Secretary 
ST. LOUIS : 

Crystal Lake Country Club was the site of this year's annual Golf Tournament and Sports Night Dinner. There was an unusually large number of golfers participating this year tlianks to Chair­man JACK POWERS '54. However, the results were not so unusual. GENE FEHLIG '43 again walked autiy with low gross honors and then added coup de grace by winning the grand attendance prize — a luxury weekend trip for two at Tan-Tara Resort. If any par-shooting Alumni arc being transferred into the St. Louis area, please let us know immediately. We arc alwa>-s looking for challengers to the Fchlig regime. Low net honors in the Golf Tournament went to JACK CROWLEY '57. 
Football — professional stj'le — was the theme of the Sports Night Dinner after the golf tourna­ment. Charles Winner,. the new coach of the football Cardinals, was our guest speaker and gave us an idea of what wc can expect from our pro team this year. DICK ASH '54 lined up the greatest array of prizes that we ha%'e ever had — ^veekcnd trips, case of cliampjgnc, tickets to local sports events, etc Ever>'onc in atten* dance received at least one prize. We arc cer­tainly indebted to Jack Powers and Dick Ash for making this annual affair another fine success. 
— JOE DWYER, Secretary * 
= ROME = 

The Notre Dame Hospitality Center welcomes all comers: open daily at Largo Biancaccio 82, telephone—730.002. 
Important info: Papal audiences every Wednes­day forenoon. Public Papal blessing every Sun­day noon. (No other opportunities assured.) Ring us on arri\*al for procedure. 
The summer tidal w^ve of visitors is upon us. These guests were among the many who stopped in: BEN OAKES '31 and his w*ife and children; Srs. MAUREE.V FLYNN OP '50 and DOR­OTHEUS WALSH OP '58; S. McKEEVER '58; JOE DUFFY '48 and wife; CHARLES -MORROW '38 and wife; the mother and sisters of BILL BARTLETT '61; the niece of JOHN BR;\N.VO.N' '37; ALBERT LU.M '57; GEORGE MITCHELL '62; tlic daughter of JERRY CROWLEY '31; BILL VEEDER '62; DO.N SMITH '40; family of Bro. RONALD VINCI CSC '66; Srs. WALTER SSJ '42 and ETHELREDA SSJ '48; the sUtcrs of ED CHAPLI.N' '19; the aunts of ED '61, A.V­DREW '63, JOH.N' '64 CHAPLIN; ROBERT SULLIVAN '67; JOSEPH O'NEILL TV '67; TOM VOLINI '67; the daughter of ANDREW HELLMUTH '36; the granddaughter of J. WOLFF of the engineering science boaid (and grandnicce of Sr. Madclcra CSC); Sr. ANNE MONia \ CSC, Sr. .MARY ROBERT CSC, and Sr. .MICHAELA CSC; PAUL RAMSEY '68; GEORGE FLVNN '68; TOM FLYNN '71; the parents of BILL DALTON '60; AL BAILEY '51; the sister of ED '59 and TOM '67 MALONE; SYLVESTER THEISEN '49. 
FERNANDO CORDOVA GUILLERMO RA­MIS JOSE BALLESTER '66; JOHN K,\NALEY 
'64; WILLIAM SCHMUHL '65; Prof. CHARLES MATZ; ART ZELLER '67; the cousin of JOHN HOFF '62; CHICK MAGGIOLI '42; the daugh­ter of BILL COTTER '41; JIM EGAN '66; VINCENT BOLDUC '68; MICHAEL ABBATE '69; GREGORY WEISMANTEL '62 and bride honeymooning; the nieces of Fathers PAT and TOM PEYTON CSC; JOHN KELLEHER '66; MICHAEL BARTLEY and TO.M LOCKE '67; friends of DO.V IGNELZI '62; TO.M WHALEN '64; WILLIAM FAY '63; JOSEPH JOHN '66; Sr. JURIS STELLA SCHROT '60 and mother; the daughter of DON MILLER of the Horsemen; friends of F. L. LINTON, ND Trustee; friend of JAY McGOWNE '66. And finally the c%ei­returning LEO VOGELS '17 and SMC '18 in company with the wife of JOHN McMAHON '28 (now deceased), JOHN JR. '58 and MI­CHAEL '61. Add a constant stream of students and alumni of a score of other colleges and that's us — summer of '66. 
— VINCE McALOON, Secretary 
: VIRGINIA 

Under our new president, BERNIE NIERLE, 
a Family Picnic was held in June. Drs. RUSS 
RILEY and JACK SETTER prepared the bar­
becued chicken and JERRY TOOMEY, JERRY 
OWLNGS. JOE LANGE, BOB McSWEENEY 
and ALEX McMURTRIE handled the games and 
children's affairs. Dr. FRANK KELLY won the 
football door prize. 
In August a Freshman Send-Off was held. The 
new students met the current area students and 
RANDY SUTLIFF, student president of the 
Washington Club, extended the ofHcial welcome. 
FR.ANK aARPIN, pitcher for the Braves, handled 
the entertainment and CHARLIE SCHLIECK­
ERT, the tapper. 
— GORDON SUTLIFF, Secretary 

^^ ^ WASHINGTON, D.C. ^^ = 
The summer \'acation, along with douiiright hot weather, has taken its toll in activities planned for the Club. The summer cocktail party, hosted by Club President WALT BREN.NAN '41'on July 10, drew about 40 members and guests. Some of those in attendance at the party were: PAUL LOCHER '38, W.AYNE ST. CLAIR '64, AL VIROSTER '56, FR.-\NK ifcGARTHY '56, RAYMOSD RAEDY '62. BILL CAREY, ED HARGIN '26, MATT MERLE '39, JOE SULLI­VAN, JOHN '60 and BILL '64 CARRETTA and BILL .MIDDENDORF '43. We wbh to thank those ^vho braved the 97-dcgrec heat, high hu­midity and the threat of showers for coming out. One of the guests was ALAN PAGE '68 who is w*orking in DC for the summer. 
Starting in September the Club will be having a monthly luncheon. This will be held in down­town Washington during the WLek. Speakers are planned for about half of these events. 
Activities coming up and to be reported on at a later date are the Family Picnic at Fort Hunt Park near Mount Vernon on Oct. 1. Also scheduled for October are the general business meeting and a trip to the Navy game on the 2dth in a chartered train. 
— RAYMOND RAEDY, Treasurer 

NEWLY ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE DALLAS CLUB are (seated) John Rogers, president; Gene Kirwin, 1st vice-president; (standing) Bob Williams, treasurer: Ed Fleming^ 2nd vice-president; and Lorry Cooke, scCTetory. 
-li^--'.-". '.' -i' 
•4i«ttcaifeain 

FOOTBALL 
On September 24, Notre Dame goes before a nationwide TV audience to begin the third chapter in the latest book of the Fighting Irish football story. Its author. Coach Ara Parseghian, is carefully piecing together a team which he says will resemble the squad of 1964. As in that heralded year, Parseghian must find a quarterback, a whole new defensive secondary and, practically, an entire new offensive line. Confident once again that he'll find the men to mold a nationally ranked team, the coach resumes his narrative — THE FIGHTING IRISH IN '66. 
produced by / G. E. DuBois '59 pliotography by / Richard Stevens '51 
^s^^!fW^^''^IS^mi^mmmm»msmmi^ 
1966 
39 

W'r*^'­
»i& 
U^': 

Two sophomores, inexperienced but highly regarded, await a one-man quarterback decision by Coach Parseghian on the eve of 
lAST YEAR'S TEAM versified offensive attack, more the pro-type of attack; 
WAS CHAHAaER­

hopefully, with a split end and a flankerback. It will be 
explode the 
IZED AS A BALL 

a more open attack. We won't be quite the possession 
CLUB THAT 

team we were last year. The latter was out of necessity 
STRESSED GOOD FIELD POSITION AND SUSTAINED BALL CONTROL. and is not necessarily my cup of tea. But if was our 
positive 

HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE best way of winning, i think we'll have more explosive­1966 TEAM? 
ness. We'll be able to get out of the third down and The offense you use and the things you do are long yardage situations that we were unable to do a predicated on the skills of the personnel available. year ago against our opponents when we just punted This year I think you'll find our team having a more di­and played defense. 
have been waging one of the hottest aerial dogfights in Notre Dame history for the right to command Ara's offensive eleven. 
>. ^r^-. 
f 9 
"'%••
i»*i>, .'' 

mmmmmmmmmmmsmm^m^^^^mmm 
Notre Dame's 78th football season. From the start of their freshman year, Terry Hanratty (above) and Coley O'Brien (lower) 
WHAT IS THE BIGGEST PROBLEM FACING YOU THIS YEAR? 
Our biggest problem this year is that many of our boys do not have experience. It's conceivable that we could start sophomores at split end, quarterback, tight end and possibly flankerback. These are inexperienced boys who haven't played in a competitive game since their last game in high school. We are not permitted freshman gomes. Therefore, this means they'll be going before a nationally televised audience as sophomores in skilled positions. And this is going to be difficult. 
Either candidate will bring to the Fighting Irish this year an 
^ 

HOW DOES THE SCHEDULE LOOK TO YOU? It appears as tough to me as any other in the post. Purdue is probably one of the top-ranked teams in the 
country. They will be ranked nationally. Their record last year was 7-2-1. . . . Next is Northwestern which I know especially well. We had to fight for our lives a year ago against them, and it's the same team that laced Michigan a year ago. . . . Army has a new coach. . . . North Carolina is being picked to win the Atlantic Coast Conference. . . •. Oklahoma has a new coach 
 explosive offensive attack reminiscent of bygone Huarte days. 
L'^f^-^ 
is ':': 
a^N.
 i 
''-^StJia^ S 

|..t^,yi^9li*«IBBl|i •H-*a»1ifa^l1*'»«»jK!«y 
I 
V"­
^ 

The Fighting Irish this year will employ a pro-type of offensive attack utilizing the running and pass-catching abilities of halfbacks Nick Eddy (top) and Bob "Rocky" Blier (above left), and end Jim Seymour (above right). Senior Larry Conjar (below) will take up his familiar post at fullback. The offensive line which suffered the hardest from graduation will have only center George Goddeke (No. 54) and left guard Tom Regner (No. 76) returning. Senior right guard Dick Swatland (center right) will help take up the slack together with junior tackles Rudy Konieczny and Mike Kuzmicz or senior tackle Fred Schnurr. 
y^gg^^^S^ite?^^!:^^ 
<w 

y'8gIi'&MiLt%tfJgi»*asai,*T:aj^.-v..^.„.^^Bgai>^g;Sffiai^ 
a scramble 
v/ith v/hom v/e're very familiar. He comes from Arkansas and we knov/ what their skills and abilities are. They'll be a well-coached team. . . . Bill Elias has done a fine job for Navy. They have a great passing attack coming back. . . . Duke, I know least about but they have a new coach, Tom Harp from Ohio. . . . Pittsburgh has a new coach in Dave Hart, a fellov/ from Navy v/ith v/hom we ore familiar . . . and 1 don't think there is any question about AAichigan State or Southern California. I just don't feel that this year's schedule is any easier than those in the past. In the collegiate ranks the uncertainty of the sophomore crops comes up. In 1964, UCLA v/on only tv/o of their games prior to going on to v/in the Rose Bov/I championship last year. 1964 was somev/hat of an unusual year for Notre Dame after having had fv/o losing seasons. So no one knov/s hov/ fougli they are going lo be. I say this: collegiate football and the balance of schedules today are better than ever, if for no other rea­son than the population explosion it­self. The number of boys you can play hasn't changed—it's still eleven. But there are a lot more boys com­peting for the jobs. This is evidenced by the fact that professional football has been able to maintain fv/o leagues and, nov/, possibly a third. And you can't do it v/iihout players. 
IN COLEY O'BRIEN AND TERRY HANRATTY YOU 

HAVE TV/0 FINE PROSPECTS FOR OUARTER­
BACK. DO YOU GIVE AN EDGE TO ONE OR THE OTHER AT THIS TIME? 
I v/on't knov/ for sure until September 24, the season opener with Purdue. Both Coley and Terry are sophomores —young and inexperienced. At the beginning of spring drills, and as a result of last fall, O'Brien had the edge as far as freshmen wore con­cerned. At the end of spring, Han-ratty had a little bit of an edge. This battle will resume in September v/hen the boys report back to school and v/ill continue through until v/e have to moke a final decision. We're delighted to have tv/o boys with such capabilities. But 1 really don't know myself at this time whether it will be Hanratty or O'Brien. That judgment v/ill come after v/e v/ill have observed them in practice from Sep-_ tember 1 to the 23rd. We f {^K" could possibly play both " ^-^ * 

of them. The one thing 
quarter­you ve got to re­member is that they are both 
back sophomores. Normally, it is my pol­icy to go v/ith one but that doesn't necessarily mean that we couldn't change that based on one boy's do­ing one thing better than the other. Also, 1 don't like to use the games themselves as a testing ground for a boy under competition. But unfortu­
nately v/hen you've omore it's virtually so, particularly in slot. So these ore ansv/er at this time as time goes on. 
 come on a soph­ necessary to do  the quarterback  questions 1 can't  but will ansv/er 
ANOTHER BOY IN CONTENTION FOR THE QUARTERBACK POSITION V/AS TOM SCHOEN. DURING SPRING PRACTICE, HOWEVER, HE V/AS SWITCHED TO DEFENSIVE SAFETY. WHAT IS THE STORY BEHIND THAT MOVE? 

Tom Schoen is a very good ball handler as a quarterback, but he just doesn't have the passing ability of either Hanratty or O'Brien. However, because he is such a good all-around athlete and because v/e have to re­build our defensive secondary, we gave Tom a shot at the defensive safety slot. This is a position he played in high school. Thus far he has performed well. He is also a 
good punt return man because he has speed and elusiveness. 
ARE THERE ANY OTHER MAJOR POSITION SHIFTS CONTEMPLATED AT THIS TIME? 
Nothing of any major significance. There has been a shift of interior linemen and of linebackers. Also, Dan Harshman, who was injured and didn't practice the whole spring drill, v/as both a defensive and an offen­sive player a year ago. When he comes back he will be given a shot at the defensive right halfback spot and move exclusively to the defense. 
WHAT ARE yoUR PLANS FOR REBUILDING YOUR OFFENSIVE LINE WHERE YOU LOST FIVE MEN THROUGH GRADUATION? 
All any football coach can do is put his best football players in and work 
combination 
Notre Dame's defensive unit, ranked nationally the past two years for their stingy yardage and fewest first downs, will have veterans manning their entire line and linebacker positions this fall. Pete Duranko (lop). Captain Jim Lynch (middle) and Alan Page (bottom) — to mention only three — will return for defensive Coach John Ray (bottom). 
to coordinate them. It's an — ­
inexperienced group of f^ T | llK'^^f^ 
players. Yet, I think as the ^-^ • Wl 11 V ^ V ^ 
season progresses and we con-. a 
iinue on, it will become a fairly T|^|I'^CI^5 decent unit. We concluded the ^••••••^^"^ spring drills with George Goeddeke at center, Tom Regner at left guard, Dick Swatland at right guard, Paul Seller at left tackle, Rudy Konieczny alternating with Mike Kuzmicz at right tackle and Keorge Kunz at tight end. Don Gmitter, who missed all of spring practice because of knee surgery, possibly could step inio that 
tight end position also. 
WHO ARE SOtAE OF THE SOPHOMORES OTHER THAN O'BRIEN AND HANRATTY THAT YOU ARE COUNTING ON THIS SEASON? 
We have two fine sophomores at split end, Jim Seymour and Curt Heneghan . . . George Kunz, a tight end who can also play tackle . . . Paul Snow, another receiver who looks like he has the ability .. . Ed Vuillemin, who can play either offensive fullback or defensive line­backer . . . Eric Norri and Pot Schrage, both on the defensive line . . . and Tom Quinn, a defensive halfback. 
DO YOU FEEL THAT YOUR DEFENSIVE UNIT WILL BE STRONGER 
THAN LAST YEAR? 

I can't soy whether it will be stronger than last year. You've got to remember that the unit of 1965 actually performed better than 1964. And the latter team was widely heralded. 1 believe the '65 team yielded less points than the '64 team. It's interesting to note that 30 percent or more of those points came in one ball game—Purdue. So the rest of the nine opponents did very poorly against us. If we can duplicate our effort and feats of 1965 we are going to have a fine defense. If we stay healthy 1 think we could have a solid de­fense. I think we have a great corps of coaches on the defensive unit. And we've got experienced personnel particularly on our "big four"—Alan Page, Pete Duran­ko, Kevin Hardy and Tom Rhoads—and in our lineback­ers—Mike McGill, Jim Lynch, John Pergine (or John Horney) and Dave Martin. The defensive secondary— now composed of Schoen, Tom O'Leary and Jim Smith­
berger or Harshmon—shows very little experience. But then so did the '64 team when Tony Carey, Tom Longo and Nick Rassas were moved back there and did a great job for two years. 
WHAT IS THE INJURY SITUATION AT THIS TME? 
We just received word that one of our sophomore split ends. Curt Heneghan from Seattle, injured his knee while working out at home. The extent of his injury won't be known until after September. Everyone else, however, seems to be in fairly decent shape. 
WHAT IS YOUR PREDiaiON FOR THE SEASON? 
I make no predictions on the outcome of the games but I do make these predictions. They aren't of any signifi­cance in terms of wins and losses but they do con­tribute to winning and losing. I've told the Notre Dame people and friends of the University that we will field a well-conditioned team. This is a coaching responsibility. We will be in good condition. We will field a team that is strategically abreast with all the modern professional and collegiate trends. We will field a team that plays with the Notre Dame spirit and desire that has been evidenced over the years by Notre Dame clubs. And I think the combination of those three things should bring us our share of wins. 
ALUMNUS SEPTEMBER 1966 OCTOBEE 
--t-ftA-, 

.X •.:^. -.^^ 
^^ 
»J 

PRIDE VHATTHlllCIWSII ,„» 
l>^.^:ji^ 
fiHev.-' Raymond: l^.'^Hufrayr7cSC 
; Corby Hall;: -. . ' — \ Notre Dame. Ind. 46556 
\ • :^'«*^:S. • 
,-.LJ 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 
W. LANCASTER SMITH 'SO HONORARY PRESIDENT 
THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 PRESIDENT 

BERTRAND D. COUGHllN, M.D. '26 VICE-PRESIDENT 
WILLIAM V. CUDDY '51 VICE-PRESIDENT 
HERBERT M. SAMPSON '50 VICE-PRESIDENT 
JAMES E ARMSTRONG '25 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
JAMES D. COONEY '59 ASSISTANT ALUMNI SECRETARY 

DIRECTORS TO 1SG7 
3MAS P. CARNEY '37 
ONTINUING EDUCATION 
CADEMIC AFFAIRS DMISSIONS D50 N. GREEN BAY RD. kKE FOREST, ILL 60045 
fRAND D. COUGHllN, M.D. '26 rUDENT AFFAIRS JDGET i THORNDELL DR. 
r. LOUIS, MO. 63117 
LIAM V. CUDDY '52 JB. REL AND DEVELOPMENT 
ACEMENT 55 RALPH AVE miTE PLAINS, N.Y. 10606 
3ERT M. SAMPSON '50 THLETIC ILIGION AND CITIZENSHIP 35 NORTH 57 AVE MAHA, NEB. 68132 
DIRECTORS TO 1968 
EPH H. CAREY '32 >965 BRIARCIIFF ETROIT, MICH- 48221 
THOMAS \N. CARROLL '51 17 CARLTON RD. HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 
AMBROSE F. DUDLEY, JR. '43 519 SUSSEX RD. WYNNEWOOD, PA. 19096 
CHARLES J. PATTERSON '47 73 MT.- V^AYNE AVE FRAMINGHAM, MASS. 01702 
DIRECTORS TO 1969 
WILLIAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. WASHINGTON, D.C. 20016 
WILLIAM F. KERWIN, JR. '40 1108 EMILIE ST. GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 
RICHARD A. ROSENTHAL ''54 15670 HEARTHSTONE DR. MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 
LEO V. TURGEON, M.D. '42 SUITE 107 CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER 3731 STOCKER ST. LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90008 
NOTRE D,\ME 

gUmiii 
MAGAZINE STAFF 
JAMES E ARMSTRONG '25 EDITOR 
JOHN P. THURIN '59 MANAGING EDITOR 
DUTE WINSKUNAS EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
BRUCE HARLAN '49 PHOTOGRAPHER 
EDWARD E HERRMANN' ART CONSULTANT 
JAMES E MURPHY '47 
R. PATRICK STRICKLER '65 PUBLIC INFORMATION 







