The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 34 No. 
February, 1956 

NOTRE 
James E. Armstronp;, '25 Editor 
John X. Oicfcley, '37 Mana^in.:; Editor 

Engineers Schedule '^Open House' Exhibit 
On April 20. 21 and 22 the students in the College of Engineering will ])re­sent the 19,")6 Engineering Open House. Sponsored by the student Engineering .'Xdvisoiy Board, this year's show will 

•be the fourth annual Open House and 
||.-ill feature student-constructed projects and industrial exhibits. La.st spring a crowd off more than 25.000 ])eop!e visited the cain])us during the three day allair. 
The theme chosen for the 19.56 OiJen House is "The Engineer—Yesterday. Today and Tomorrow"'. Exhibits and 

^lisplays will atleuipi to portray the evolution of engineering from the past and into the fiuiue..-Vctivitiesconunence on Friday afternoon with an engineer­ing show and a talk by a top engineer­ing executive. 
Saturday morning an aerial displav and the Chariot Race are scheduled, ^ n this race a two-man team from each ^•ngineering department will don Ro­man togas and attempt to steer a home­made chariot to the champion's ])laque. 
One of the weekend highlights will be the .Auto Show. Last year eight ex­perimental cars wcic shown: this year an eqttal nttmbcr is anticipated. The 

ijjimultaneous display of antique cars with automobiles of the future will pro­vide an interesting comparison for the visitors. 

1955 Foundation Report 
The 1955 Notre Dame Founda­tion Report was in the process of being completed as the ALUMNUS went to press and details will be printed in the March, 1956, NOTRE DAME magazine. 


Alumni Association Elects Four New Board Members 
G}-oup Attoids JVinte?-Meeting On Campus 
Four alumni recently elected to the -Miimni .Association Board of Directors attended the winter meeting held on cat-.'.pus January 20. 21 and" 22. The new directors are Francis L. "Mike" 
Ed Hagsar Mike Lavden 
Lavden. '36, Evansville. Ind.; Edtnond 
R. Haggar. '38. Dallas. Te.xas; Eugene .\I. Kennedy, ^22, Los'Angeles, Calif.: and O.scar John Dorwin. '17, Green­wich, Conn. 
Oiugoing board members uho have completed their term of office consist of: James G. McGoldrick, '39, New York City; John F. Saunders, "31, Bos­ton. Mass.; Msgr. Joseph B. Toomey, '26. Syracuse, N. Y.; and Daniel Cul­hane, '23, \Vashingion D. C. 
Layden is district manager of the Indiana Bell Telephone Company in Evansville. He won football mono­grams in 1934 and in 1935 and was a member of the varsity track team in 1933 and 1934. He is a fonncr presi­dent of the Indianapolis Notre Dame Alumni Club and has been active in civic, fraternal and philanthropic or­ganizations. Mike is an outstanding college football official and was the referee in this year's Rose Bowl Game. 
Ed Haggar has been president of the Notre Dame Club of Dallas and is a 

veteran of World War II. He is a director of the .American Institute of Men's and Boys' Wear. His brother Joseph, who is associated with him in the mantifacturing of men's pants, is also a Notre Dame alumnus. The com­pany has expanded tremendously since World \V'ar II and is nationally known for its product. 
Kennedy received a law degree at Notre Dame in 1922 and moved to California soon afterwards. He is a member of the State Bar Association of California and is a past president of the Notre Dame Club of Los .Angeles. While at N.D. he won two monograms in basketball. Gene is a veteran of both \Vorld Wars and is currently vice presi-
Genc Kennedy-Oscar Donvin 

dent of the trust department in the Bank of America at Los Angeles. 
Oscar John Dorwin attended Har­vard Law School after receiving a bachelor of philosophy degree from Notre Dame in 1917. At the present time he is vice-president of the Texas Company and is a member of the Notre Dame School of Law Advisor\- Council. Dorwin practiced law in Chicago prior to his affiliation vAxh industr)'. AVhile at Notre Dame he was on the varsity baseball team. 
SPOKANE BISHOP IS NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Most Rev. Bernard J. Topel, a Notre Dame alumnus, joined the ranks of the American Hierarchy when he was con­secrated Bishop of Spokane recently at the St. Helena Cathedral, Helena, Mont. Most Rev. Thomas A Connolly, Bishop of Seattle, preached the sermon while Most Rev. Joseph P. Dougherty, Bbhop of Yakima, and Most Rev. Joseph C. ^\'illga^g, BisIiop of Pueblo, were co-consecrators. 
Bishop Topel received a doctor of philosophy degree at Notre Dame in 1938 and remained at the University as a member of the faculty for an addi­tional year. From 1938 to 1944 he published a number of articles pertain­ing to mathematical research projects, wtli special emphasis in the field of metric geometr)'. In addition to his background in research and teaching 
Most Rev. Bernard J. Topel 
ALUMNUS Magazine 
Vol. 34, No. 1 February, 1956 Nofre Dame, Ind. 
tlie new bishop has had a wide variety of parochial experience. One of his most important works has been that of fostering vocations to the priesthood and religious life. Since 1944 he has been diocesan director of vocations. 
His Excellency received a bachelor of arts degree from Helena College in 1923 and a masters degree in education from Catholic University. He was ordained to the priesthood in 1927 and assigned to Carroll College as instructor and assistant dean of men. He had done graduate study at Harvard where he was awarded a masters degree in mathematics in 1934. 
Bishop Topel succeeded the late Most Rev. Charles D. AVhite as Bishop of Spokane. 


N.D. Senior Named Rhodes Scholar 
Donald Sniegowski, a University of Notre Dame senior from Toledo, Oliio, has been awarded a Rhodes Scholar­ship for two years of graduate study at Oxford University in England. An English major at Notre Dame, Snie­gowski will study for an advanced de­gree in literature and plans to make college teaching his career. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Chester Sniegow­ski of Toledo. 
Certain qualifications were necessary-for eligibility in the Rhodes competi­tion. A candidate had to be: 1) un­married, male citizens of the United States, 2) between the ages of 19 and 25, 3) at least a junior in the univer­sity which he is representing, 4) and receive the official endorsement of the university. 
In addition to the above four points, there were five other requirements: 1) 
Betum'postk'ge'guaranteed 
literar)' and scholastic ability and j ^ tainments, 2) qualities of manhood, trutlifulness, unselfishness, courage, and fellowship, 3) exhibition of moral char­acter and leadership, 4) physical vigor, as shown by fondness for or success in sports, 5) one outstanding quality of in­tellect or character. This was the mr| important of the five requirements. 
Study in England differs from that in the United States in several ways. The school year begins on October 14, 1956. From that time on, students alternately attend classes for t^vo months and re­ceive a one-month vacation, in addit"? 

tl 
to a four-month summer vacation. While in England, Sniegowski in-, tends to bscome active in one sport,] preferably rugby or cricket. He also in­tends to travel, both in England and] on the continent, during the vacation] periods. ^; -^ Thirty-two Rhodes Scholai-sn'.ps awarded annually to American stu^ dents. 
Entered as Second Class mattV October 1, 1939, at the Post Office^ Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of August 24, 1912. 

I, 



