The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 35 No. 5 
Aug.—Sept. 1957 
•James E. Armstrong, '25 Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37 Managing Editor 
A standing ovation from 800 alumni demonstrated their enthusiasm for the academic degree presentation to Van Wallace, '27, at the Reunion Weekend banquet. Left to right: John W. Brennan, '27, Detroit, Mich., national Class Vice-President of the Notre Dame Alumni Association; Joseph F. Leek, Van's traveling companion; Van Wallace; John Cackley, banquet toastmaster, of the Alumni Office staff; and Father Hesburgh, who awarded the degree to Van. Story on page 2. 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

Professors Don Plunkett, '29 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Officers 

And Carl Mathes Die in May 
JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, '36 
Honorary President 
Two prominent Notre Dame faculty members died during the second semester. Professor Donald J. Plunkett, '29, acting head of tiie Department of Biology and a member of the Univer­sit)''s staff for 25 years, suffered a fatal heart attack on May 19. Associate pro­fessor Carl Mathes, pianist, organist, composer and teacher of the Notre Dame Department of Music, died May 
12. Mr. Matlies had been blind since birth and his deatli closed a career of more than 33 years of leadership in tlie music field. 
Prior to joining tlie Notre Dame 
faculty in 1932, Professor Plunkett taught biology at Carroll Col­lege, Helena, Mont. He was awarded a mas­ter of science degree by the University of Illinois in 1937. Professor 
Prof. Don Plunkett 
Plunkett \\'as a member of the Indiana Academy of Science and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He is sur\'ived by his widow, Dorothy; a son, James T., Notre Dame sophomore; and two daughters. Colleen and Patsy. Also sur\'iving are tliree brothers, Devere Plunkett, '30, assistant dean of tlie Col­lege of Arts and Letters; Roy and John Plunkett, both of Detroit; and one sister. Miss Be.«sie Plunkett of Cadillac, Midi. Funeral services were held in Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame. 
Professor Mathes was one of the 
commimity's fine artists and was not only a compe­tent musician but was also a linguist. He wo n interna­tional fame a few years ago when a Christ­mas carol pro­gram he ar-
Prof. Carl Mathes ^^^^ j f^^ ^he 
choir of Our Lady of Hangar)' Church in South Bend was taped and broad­cast to countries behind the Iron Cur­tain by the Voice of America. Pro­fessor Matlies wrote many Masses, in­strumental compositions and songs and a number of these have been performed by the Philadelphia S>'mpIiony Or­chestra which is conducted by one of his close friends, Eugene Ormandy. 

Van Wallace Given Degree at Banquet 
David Van Wallace, '27, of Mt. Clemens, Mich., received an honorary baclielor of science degree at tlie an­nual alumni banquet on June 8 witli Rev. Theodore M. Hesbui^h, C.S.C, presenting the degree to Van. A for­mer Notre Dame athlete. Van Wallace has been paralyzed since his freshman year in 1924 as the result of a swim­ming pool diving accident. For almost 33 years he has been confined to an ambulator)' cot. The Notre Dame Club of Detroit a few years ago, with the help of a local women's organization in tliat city, raised enough money to send Van to the Lourdes shrine in France. They also purchased a station Vv'agon for him, specially designed for his comfort. 
Many alumni and otlier friends of 
tlie University have seen Van's "wagon" 
at football games in tlie stadium as well 
as at student pep rallies in the field 
house. He attends various gatherings 
of the Detroit Alumni Club and is a 
frequent visitor on campus. Van is e.K­
tremely active, although paralyzed from 
tlie neck down, inasmuch as he is an 
avid reader, sells insurance and can 
typewrite letters. Van's promising 
athletic career as a basketball and base­
ball player on Fighting Irish teams was 
cut short by the crippling accident in 
1924. 
Van has not achieved his youthful 
ambition of becoming a practicing engi­
neer. Instead, he has attained some­
thing infinitely more worthwhile, he 
has become a great "institution" at 
Notre Dame and a tremendous inspi­
ration to alumni everywhere. His 
mother and his sister were present when 
he was awarded tiie degree by Father 
Hesburgh. Van, truly, is representative 
of the real Notre Dame spirit! 

J. PATRICK CAN.VY, '28 President PATRICK J. FISHER, '36 
Club Vice-President 

JoH.v W. BREN.N-AN, '27 . . Class Vice-President JOSEPH E. WHALE.V, '29 .... 
Fund Vice-President JAMES E. .AR.MSTRONC, '25 Secretary 
Directors to 1958 

JoH.s- W. BRENN-AN, '27 American Blower Corp., Detroit 32, Mich. 
J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 14700 Clifton Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio PATRICK J. FISHER, '36 605 E. 42nd St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
JOSEPH E. WHALEN, '29 Hotel Ft. Des Moines, Des Moines, Iowa 
Directors to 1959 

OSCAR JOHN DORWI.V, '17 Texas Company 135 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. 
EDMOND R. HAGGAR, '38 Haggar Company 6113 Lemmon Avenue, Dallas, Texas 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 174 South Mansfield .Avenue Los .•\ngcles 36, Calif. 
FR/\NCIS L. LUWDE.N, '36 701 College Highway, Evansville, Ind. 
Directors to 1960 
LEO J. VOCEL, *17 Union Trust BIdg., Pittsburgh, Pa. RJWJIOND W. DURST, '26 840 Lathrop Ave., River Forest, III. 

JULES K. DE L,\ VERGNE, '33 413 Pere Marquette Bldg. New Orleans, Louisiana 
WILLIAM E. COTTER, JR., '41 114 Laurie St., Duluth 3, Minn. 
Chairmen of the 1957 Committees | 
J. PATRICK CANNY Executive PATRICK J. FISHER Club Activities JoH.N W. BRENNAN Class Activitic: JOSEPH E. WHALEN \ 
Foundation^ Alumni Fund and Giftsi 
FRANCIS L. LAYDEN | 
Preparatory School Relations 
JOHN W . BRE.N.VAN f 
Job Counseling and Placementl OSCAR JOH.V DORWI.V Inter-Alumni Affairs] JOSEPH E. WHALEN \'~ 
,1 Prestige and Public Relations^ 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY j 
Religion and Citizenship'/ 
EDMOND R. HAGGAR AND j 
EUGENE M . KENNEDY Nominations. FRANCIS L. LAYDEN Budget and Finance PATRICK J. FISHER Resolutions 
This maganne is publlslird bi.iiiont}il}' b)' the Univcttity of Notre Dame, Xotre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post OfBcc, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
More than 800 alumni returned to the campus for the Reunion VS'eekend program on June 7, 8 and 9. Early arrivals on Thursday were members of the N. D. Monogram Chxb who enjoyed a golf outing and business session. 
Class dinners on Friday evening and 'Class Masses the following morning were two of the features on the week­end agenda. Alumni heard national president Pat Canny and Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., speak at the alumni banquet on Saturday night. ijAn innovation on the program was the Field Mass celebrated in the Com­mtmity Cemetery on Sunday morning for all alumni. Rev. John Wilson, C.S.C., '32, also preached the sermon. 
Members of the Classes of 1907, 1912, 1917, 1922, 1927, 1932, 1937, 1942, 1947 and 1952 registered on Fri­day afternoon and Friday evening at the Law Building and in the various residence halls. An all-day golf tourna­ment attracted numerous alumni on Saturday and winners were awarded 
. prizes that evening at the alumni banquet by Father George Holderith, CS.C. 
Special features of the weekend in­cluded Father Hesburgh's luncheon for tlie Silver Jubilee Class (1932), the 
..band alumni meeting, the presentation of Sherwood Anderson papers and the Lafcadio Heam collection to the Uni­versity Librar)' by John Paul Cullen, '22, and John Bennett Shaw, '37, re­spectively, and the various "informal hours" conducted by the Colleges of Engineering, Arts and Letters, Science, Commerce and Law. 
Observing their Golden Jubilee are these members of the 1907 Cbiss. 


800 Return for Reunion Program 
10 Classes Celebrate Anniversaries 
Alumni, who graduated in 1932, enjoyed their Silver Jubilee during Reunion Weekend. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
'•:m::2^m^mmm^m 


^ustodazf, 
'^••'li,^-- TIP*- .;"'V 
\/^.

'fyWff 

New Members of Advisory Council 
Five businessmen have been appointed to the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce according to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
The newly named members are William H. Coleman, partner in Ball, Burge and Kraus, Cleveland, Ohio, brokerage firm; Robert H. Gore, Jr., The Governors' Club Hotel, Fort Lauderdsile, Fla.; James M. Morrison, The Morrison Construc­tion Co., Hammond, Ind.; Richard A. O'Connor, chairman of The Magnavox Corp., Fort Wayne, Ind.; and Hugh M. O'Neill, president of Anchor Motor Freight, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio. 
James Gerity, Jr., president of the Gerity-Michigan Corp., Adrian, Mich., is chairman of the 41-member advisory group which meets semi-annually on the campus. Council members consult with university officials on the academic programs and research of Notre Dame's CoUege of Commerce. They also assist in career counsel­ing and placement of the commerce school's graduates. 
N.D. President Appointed Vatican Delegate 
Rev. Theodore M Hesburgh, C.S.C, has been appointed by Pope Pius Xn as the permanent representative of Vatican City to the new Inter­national Atomic Energy Agency. Father Hes­burgh and Frank Folsom, executive committee chairman and former president of the Radio Cor­poration of America, will represent Vatican City at the first general conference of the "atoms­for-peace" organization tentatively scheduled to be held in mid-August in Vienna. They were officially informed of their appointments in a recent communication from Monsignor Angelo Dell'Acqua, substitute secretary of state at the Vatican. 
Editor Talks on ABC Network 
High school students who are going steady at sixteen are "slaves of their own making," Rev. Frank Gartland, C.S.C, editor of The Catholic Boy, declared recently in a nationwide radio broadcast Father Gartland expressed his views in a talk entitled "Youth Approach Marriage" on the "Christian in Action" program over the ABC Radio Network. It was the third in a series of talks during June on the theme, "Youth Are Better Than They Look." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
Fr. Bachofer Named Acting Biology Head (^ 
Rev. Qetus S. Bachofer, C.S.C, has been ap­pointed acting head of the department of biology at Notre Dame, according to an announcement by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, president. A radiation biologist. Father Bachofer succeeds the late Professor Donald J. Plunkett who was also serving as acting department head. Father Bachofer currently is engaged in research deal­ing with the effects of radiation on the nerves of animals. The project is supported by the 
U. S. Atomic Energy Commission. He also con­ducts classes in radiation biology and physiology. A native of Salina, Kansas, Father Bachofer was graduated from Notre Dame in 1938 and re­ceived a doctorate from the University of Chicago in 1948. He has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since that time. He was ordained to the priesthood on June 24, 1942. 

American Physicists Meet on Campus 
More than two hundred of the nation's leading physicists attended the American Physical Society meeting at Notre Dame on June 20-22. A total of ninety-two technical papers were presented during the sessions held in the Nieuwland Science Hall, the Engineering Auditorium and the Law Auditorium on campus. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, and Dr. George B. Collins, of the Brookhaven National Laboratory, were the banquet speakers at the Society's summer meeting. Dr. John W. Mihelich, associate professor of physics at Notre Dame, was chairman of the local arrangements committee. 

Number of Converts Increased in 1956 
Forty per cent of the 2,192 increase in converts throughout the nation during 1956 over the previous year took place in six dioceses which conducted "Crusades for Souls" or Catholic Census and Information Programs, according to Rev. John A. O'Brien, research professor at Notre Dame. A total gain of 883 converts over 1955 was recorded last year in the archdiocese of I Indianapolis and in the dioceses of Evansville, Lafayette and Fort Wayne in Indiana and the sees of Alexandria emd Lafayette in Louisiana, Father O'Brien pointed out. He based his con­clusion on figures published in the 1957 Catholic Directory. 
'? 

Art Teacher Addresses NCEA 
"Art is slurred and slighted in many of our Catholic schools today," Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C, told members of the National Catholic Educational Association meeting in Milwaukee, Wis. "The opinion of many teachers today on art is anything but flattering. They either can­not or will not realize what art can contribute to students, to teachers, and to the very process of learning in the school. On their visits they show little interest in the accomplishments in art." Father Lauck is a member of the Art De­partment at Notre Dame University. An artist himself, his work has received a number of awards and distinctions. 
Addressing the Elementary Department of the N. C. E. A. at their annual convention. Father Lauck said, "It has become almost a custom in stories and biographies about artists to overemphasize their queerness and their quirks. There is the tendency to imply that there is something wrong with anybody who is an artist. In one way or another, every artist must be a lunatic. None of us care to deal with un­savory types in teaching, and so we may be persuaded that it is becoming and seemly to avoid such subjects as madcap artists and incom­prehensible art." 
Liturgy Program Observes 10th Year 
Approximately 1,650 graduate students and 400 undergraduates attended the Notre Dame summer session, June 24 - August 6. 
Notre Dame's summer Liturgy Program, ob­serving its tenth anniversary enrolled nearly one hundred students. Liturgical scholars from this country and abroad served as instructors for the program which was under the direction of Rev. Michael Mathis, C.S.C. The department of religion also offered special summer programs in sacred theology and spiritual theology. 
Workshops in Writing were conducted June 24 to July 12, and from July 15 to August 2. The sessions were designed to aid the teacher assigned to supervise the school paper or year­book or student radio and television activities. The workshops also assisted teachers in stimulat­ing a greater interest in creative writing among their students. 
Dr. Biondo Writes Music Text 
Dr. Charles Biondo, associate professor of music and director of the Notre Dame Sym­phonette, is the author of Starting tlie Instru­mental Program, a new book published by the Gregorian Institute of America, Toledo ($4.50). Professor Biondo's book deals primarily with the teaching of instrumental music at the grade school level and is based on his experience in conducting an instrumental program in the parochial schools of South Bend, Indiana. 
Professor Biondo has been a member of the Notre Dame music faculty since 1947. He was educated at Potsdam State Teachers' College, at Columbia University Teachers' College where he received a master's degree in 1946, £ind at the Chicago Musical College wfiich awarded him a doctorate in music education in 1950. Dr. Biondo has headed the Instrumental Department of the National Catholic Music Educators Association since 1955 and is a frequent contributor to pro­fessional journals. 

Fitzgerald Given $1,000 Award 
Robert Fitzgerald, poet, trjuislator and visiting professor of English at Notre Dame, has been awarded a $1,000 grant by the National Institute of Arts and Letters. 
Fitzgerald is one of nineteen men arid women who will receive fellowships or prizes tot£ding $23,000 for achievement in literature, art and music. The awards are sponsored by the National Institute of Arts and-Letters and the American Academy of Arts and Letters. The Institute's Gold Medal for Sculpture was presented to Ivan Mestrovic, professor of art and sculptor-in-resi­dence at Notre Dame, last yeeur. 

Fulbright Grants for Graduates 
Three additional Notre Dame students have been awarded Fulbright grants for graduate study abroad during the 1957-58 academic year. Rev. Paul E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School, has announced. A total of five students and a Notre Dame faculty member have received Fulbright awards in recent weeks. 
William H. Slavick, '49, a teaching fellow for his doctorate in English at Notre Dame, will study literature and serve as an assistant in English at Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich, Germany, beginning in September. 
Douglas Cole, valedictorian of Notre Dame's 1957 senior dass, will study comparative liter­ature at Rheinische Friederich-Wilhelms Uni­versity in Bonn, Germany, during 1957-58. Martin B. Tiemey will study Chilean literature and culture at the University of Chile next year. He has majored in modem languages at Notre Dame. 
Previously announced Fulbright grant recipi­ents include Dr. Ernest Sandeen, associate pro­fessor of English at Notre Dame, who will lecture at the University of Aarhus in Denmark; Bernard 
G. Browne, Tuckahoe, N. Y., who will study polit­ical science at the Free University of Berlin; and Paul N. Clemens, Washington, D. C, who will study French history at the University of Lille. 

Debaters Win National Tournament 
Notre Dame's successful debating squad of 1956-57 won the National Invitational Tourna­ment in which 30 top teams competed. The Irish combination of Paul Coffey and Jack Martzell placed first, while Martzell also was winner in the individual speaker ratings. Notre Dame was judged 10th in the United States National De­bating Championships, held at West Point, N. Y., among a field of 36 intercollegiate teams. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
An Address by Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren and Presentation of the Laetare Medal to Clare Boothe Luce Were Featured on Program 
An addiL'ss by Supreme Coml Chief Justice Earl degrees at tlie ceremonies in the Stadium. Earlier, Bishoi) Warren and the jiresentalion of tlie Laetare Medal to William Scully of Albany, N. Y., pieached the baccalau­Clare Boothe Luce, fonner U. S. Ambassador to Italy, reate sermon at a Solemn Pontifical Mass celebrated by highlighted Notre Dame's 112th annual commencement Bishop Leo A. Pursley of Fort Wayne. e.xercises on Jime 2. Honorary degree recipients, in addition to Justice 
Father Theodore ^L Hesbtugh, C.S.C., conferred seven Warren and Bishop Scully, included Ralph Bundle, Under­honorary degrees and 1,22,T gi'aduale and undergraduate secretary of die United Nations; Josejih Kaplan, director 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
Graduating class and memliers of the University administration and faculty assemble in stadium for flait-raisint: ceremony durin? Commencement exercises. 
of tlie U. S. .Satellite Piogiam and cliainiian of the U. S. National Committee for the International Geophysical Year: Monsignor John I'racy Ellis, historian and author. Catholic University of .Vmeiica. AVashington. D. C : Mrs. Eniest M. Monis. .South Bend, Ind.. civic leader and chainnan of Notre Dame's Women's .Advisory Council: James Shannon, Director of the National In.stittitc of Health: and Jaincs F. Keenan. Fort \Vayne. Ind.. hotel executive and Notre Dame lay irtistce. 
Notre Dame's senior class made the traditional "Last Visit" to Sacred Heart Church on Saturday of Commence­ment weekend. The ceremony, which is restricted to mem­bers of the graduating class, was conducted by Rev. Charles Carey. CS.C . Prefect of Religion. 
.\bout one of evciT five seniors was commissioned an 
Clare Boothc Luce, former .Ambassador to Italy, receives Notre Dame's Lactarc Medal for 1957. from University president. Father Theodore -M. Hesburgh, CS.C. 
officer of the armed forces. .-X total of 231 senior members of Xotre Dame's ROTC units received .Army, Na\-y, .Air Force and Marine commissions at Class Day exercises in the University Drill Hall on June 1st. Student speakers were valedictorian Douglas Cole, Forest Hills, N. Y.: class orator Roben F. Sasscen. Rockville Centre, N". Y.: and class president George Strake, Jr., Houston, Texas. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, CS.C, Notre Dame's executive vice president, presided at the Class Day Exercises. 
Mrs. Luce was named recipient of the Laetare Medal on Laetare Sunday, March 31st. She is the sixteenth woman to receive the award which has been made annually since 1883 to an outstanding .American Catholic layman. 
In presenting the Laetare Medal to Mrs. Luce, Father Hesburgh cited the former Congresswoman and playvvright 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1957 
(Upper left) Mrs. Ella Morris. South Bend. Ind.. who with her late husband provided funds for buildini; the Morris Inn, re­ceives an honorary doctorate at Xotre Dame's 112th Coninienccincnt. 
as one who has '"expciinded the ideals of .\mcrican and Catholic life." Mrs. Luce termed her selection for the Laetare Medal as "a most undeserved and rejoiced honor." 
Following the Baccalaureate Mass in the morning Father Hesburgh blessed an .\meiican flag which the senior class presented to the University on Washington's Birthday. Traditionally, the seniors' flag is blessed and flowTi for the first time on their graduation day and then throughout the following year. 
Chief Justice Wanen told the graduates that "in the cultural and moral frontiers of this world lie your greatest opportunities for seivice." 
(Upper right) Professor Frank O'.Mallcy was siiven the .Munini .-Association faculty award of S500. (Below) Honorary degree re­cipients with Father Hesburgh. Front row, left to right: Bishop Scully, Father Hesburgh, Chief Justice Warren, Mrs. Morris and Mr. Bunchc. Second row. left to right: Mr. Shannon. Dr. Kaplan, ' 
Msgr. Ellis and Mr. Keenan. 
"The greatest challenge of your generation is to con­quer the cultural frontiers to a degree at least equal to the conquest of the scientific and technological frontiers.'" the former California governor declared. ".-Ml the material­ism of science means little," Justice Warren asserted, "if man cannot live at peace with his fellow man." 
Bishop Scully, in the baccalaureate sermon delivered during a Solemn Pontifical Mass Sunday moniing, reminded the graduates that the Catholic Church, at some sacrifice in mi-ssionary expansion abroad, has established an educa­tional system in the United States "to provide a more intense and more vibrant Catiioiic life at home." 
As an added feature of this year's fabulous Florida State Convention for Notre Dame Alumni, a huge waterspout was formed hundreds of feet in the air offshore and spelled out the Velcomc' as noted on photograph. Only the fast lens of a remarkable camera made this very unusual picture possible. (Ed. Xote: Incidentally, if you've read this far and th:nk all of us arc nuis — and you miijht be correct — the above caption was created with a Jhtle artwork. However, the waterspout is authentic even if lettering is faked). 


Third Annual Meeting Held in Ft. Lauderdale 
Hawaiian Luaii Served to Guests 
by TRUDY ERNST 
The 3rd Annual Alumni State Con­leisure including a bridge tournament., vention of Florida was held at the putting and softball contests, informal Sea Ranch Hotel in Ft. Lauderdale on swim events and a Hawaiian luau May 3, 4 and 5. More than 100 Notre which was prepared and scived by the Dame men, their families and other Mai-Kai Restaiuant of Ft. Lauderdale. guests enjoyed three days of sun and Under the direction of Jack Thornton, owner, and Robert Van Dorpe, man­ager, this famous show place of the South catered a magnificent spread of Pol\Tiesian-tj'pe food. 
As in former years, the guests agam were privileged to enjoy the famed hos­pitality of the Sea Ranch, one of the South's finest resort hotels which is operated by the Robert H. Gore Sr., family of Ft. Lauderdale. 
Group Sees New Campus Mone 
On Friday night the new Notre Dame film, in color and sound, was ivell received by the assembled group. Highlight of the weekend was the 34di Universal Notre Dame Night banquet toastmastered by Ed "Moose" Krause, Notre Dame's athletic director, and in­cluding as principal speaker Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., associate director of the Foundation. Krause reported on the records of various sports teams during the past academic year at the University while Father O'Donnell gave the inspirational talk of the evening. President George Ernst presented the club's annual donation to Notre Dame via Father O'Donnell. 
On Sunday morning convention guests attended Mass at Assumption Church where Father O'Donnell was the celebrant. Dick Sadowski won the golf tournament after a battle with George Ernst which went seven extra holes. The weekend program was con­cluded with the serving of the alwaj-s­delicious buffet lunch. It was decided that the convention in 1958 would again be held at the Sea Ranch Hotel on April 18, 19 and 20. 
Those attending the convention in­cluded: 
Mr. and Mrs. Ed. Krause, Mr. and Mrs. Fritz Baumcr, ^^r. and Mr^. Roy B. Laughlin. Mr, and Mrs. R. II. Gore, Jr., Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, Mr. and Mrs. Willard Mnss, Mr. and Mra. Jerome P. Holland, Mr. and Mrs. John L. Callan, Dr. and Mrs. W. B. Welch, Mr. and ilrs. Chas. E. Maher, Mr. and Mrs. Michael Zorovich, .Mr. and Mrs. Ed Kelly, Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Brodeur, Mr. and Mrs Fred J. Rahaim, Mr.. 
J. D. McManus, Mr. and ^^^s. James A. Smith, Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Sadowski, Mr, and .Mrs. Al Johannes, Mr. and Mrs. Faris Cowart, .Mr. and Mrs. John SuIIi\-an, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas 
J. Moehringcr, Mr. and Mrs. George H. Gore, Mr. and Mrs. John F. Lanahan, Mr. and Mrs. Ted Tu'omey, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Rumsey. Dr. and .Mrs. li. P. Manning, Dr. and Mrs. Lyie Russell, .Mr. and ifrs. Lawrence G. Lolly, Dr. and Mrs. Wm. B. King, .Mr. and Mrs. Paul F. Glass, Mr. and Mrs. Roy Dccb, Mr. and Mrs. Jack Xeilly, .Mr. and Mrs. E. F. Gore. Mr. and Mrs. J. Wade .N'oda, Mr. and .Mis. Charles M Mauch, Mr. and .Mrs. rr. U. Peters, .Mr. and -Mrs. Geo. .\f. Rudolph, Mr. and Mrs. F. Gauss, ^tr. and Mrs. Theodore Gore, Mr. and Mrs. George J. Ernst. Dr. and Mrs. John McCaffrey, Mr. and Mrs. 
I. I. Probst, Mr. and Mrs. Herm Steadtman. Mr. and Mrs. Matthew Butti, Mr. and Mrs. William Weed, Mr. and Mrs. Paul S. Kelly, Mr. and Mrs. 
F. P. Gore, Mr. and Mrs. Richard Whalen, Mr. and Mrs. George McFadden and Mr. and Mrs. Tom Nolan. 
h'ntTf Dame Alumnus. .-lutiust-Sfptembcrj 1957 
It was an 'all-Notre Danie' ceremony when the new Governor of Alaska, Mike Stepovlch, '43, (left) was sworn in by U. S. District Judge Raymond J. Kelly, '15. 


New Governor of Alaska Received N.D. Law Degree 
Stepouich Is Father of Seven Children 
Michael A. Stepovich, '43, is the youngest governor and the first native­bom chief executive for the Territorv' of Alaska. The appointment by Presi­dent Dwight D. Eisenhower was efTec­tive on June 8 when the U. S. District Judge Raymond J. Kelly, '15, presided at the swearing in ceremonies for the new governor. 
Prior to receiving his law degree in 1943, Governor Stepovich graduated from Gonzaga University in 1940. Dur­ing World \Var II he served as a yeo­man second class in the U. S. Navy. After moving to Fairbanks in 1947 he was associated for one year with a law firm and was admitted to the Alaska Bar the next year. He ser\'ed as Fair­banks cily attorney for three years and also one term in the Territorial House of Representatives in the Territorial Senate and re-elected to a second four-year term. 

Stepovich, an ardent sports panici­

10 Notre Dame Atumnus, August-September, 1957 
pant, once refused an offer to play pro­fessional baseball. The governor is mar­ried and the father of seven children. In his inaugural address, Governor Stepovich put his adminbtration firmly behind statehood for the territory. He said a "primary goal and objective of my administration will be to point toward statehood." The new governor said, "It is time for Alaskans to close ranks on this issue and turn their united efforts to obtaining that for which the overwhelming majority has spoken." Chief among the subjects for study he said would be the Alaska tax problem. "Our economy must not only invite new citizens but it must make them feel welcome. We cannot invite them with one hand and then slip them a dis­couraging high tax bill with the other." 
Mike Stepovich is the fifteenth gov­ernor of Alaska and the son of one of the old Alaska pioneers who helped develop the territor)' in the early gold rush davs. 

LIBRARY ACQUIRES VALUABLE GIFTS 
A virtually complete collection of the works of Lafcadio Heam, 19 th cen­tury American writer, and a collection of Sherwood Anderson letters have been acquired by the Notre Dame librar)'. 
The Heam collection is the gift of John Bennett Shaw, '37, Tulsa, Okla., businessman and bibliophile. The An­derson letters were presented to the university by John Paul CuUen, '22, a ^Vauwatosa, Wis., Veterans Admin­istration official. Their gifts were ac­cepted by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, and Victor Schaefer, university librarian,. during the recent alumni reunion on campus. 
More than 300 books, all first edi­tions, are included in the Heam col­lection. Among them are works trans­lated into Japanese and other foreign languages. Heam was bom in Greece, lived in the United States, but he spent most of his life teaching and writing English in Japan. 
The Anderson collection consists of Cullen's correspondence with and about the noted novelist. Anderson, who died in 1941, is perhaps best knoii'n for his 
Winesburg, Ohio; Tar, a Midwest Childhood; and Kit Brandon. He was also the author of many short stories. 
Afembers of 1947 enjoyed the Reunion program on June 7, 8, 9. 


HeuHiCH Weekend • 1957 
The Class of 1917 had an exceptionally 6ne turnout as evidenced by the photo taken on the Morris Inn steps. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 II 
of Notre Dame listed among the top ten imiversities — by whatever yard­
from your 

sticks the future may use. And we 

ZdUo^Ual Go4H4miiilAlumni Secretary 
are working toward that goal with gen­
A recent survey of American insti­tutions of higher learning resulted in widespread interest, and the designa­tion—among otliers—of the "ten best universities." These were: 
Harvard 
Yale California (Berkeley) Chicago Columbia Princeton Michigan Cornell AVisconsin 

Jim Armsu-ong. Stanford In summar)', the selection was based on this statement of consideration, ".. . the faculty, tlie quality of re­search, as measured by publication, the student body, the physical facilities and, above all, the ethos of an institution— whether it has the character of a com­munity of scholars — must be con­sidered." There was much more of genuine interest. But this comment is not a report on the survey, or a quarrel with it. Two tluhgs stand out. First, no ~^ Catholic university is in­cluded. Second, the 800 Notre Dame alumni who attended the 1957 Reunions, a number of them holding advance de­grees from the listed institutions, seemed neither concerned nor con­vinced that the recorded superiority of these imiversities carried an essen­tial corrollary of the inferiority of others. There is probably no real basb for analysis. But first of all there is a marked coincidence between the considered yardsticks of the survey and the ma­terial resources — endo\vment or tax support — of the leaders. And if we wish to achieve many of the things they have achieved — and we do — we must also increase our material re­sources — which we are trying to do at Notre Dame through the Notre Dame Foundation. Secondly, however, we may be per­mitted to wonder whether the list does not involve a fundamental difference in purpose, especially betiveen the listed leaders and the absent Catholic in­stitutions. Msgr. John Tracy Ellis (LL.D.' '57), 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus. August-September, 
and Father Gustave VVeigel, S.J., 
among other recent \vriters (Father 
Weigel in the current Review of 
Politics) have expressed dismay over 
the spiritual distractions of the Catholic 
intellectuals in our colleges and uni­
versities, and over tlie confusion which 
theological considerations seem to in­
troduce into Catholic scholarship. 
^Vhat brought this into focus for me, and I believe to the other Reunion alumni, and seems to me to justify sorne feeling tliat we may have chosen the better part, was embodied in several events of the Commencement-Reunion weekend. 
At Commencement, from a list of men prominent for research and in­creasing publication, the Lay Faculty Award of the Alumni Association was given by the University to Francis O'Malley, essentially a teacher, a moulder of writers since 1933. 
And at the Alumni Banquet, the most moving program feature in many years was the University's award of a degree in Civil Engineering to David Van Wallace, paralyzed after his fresh­man year, a member of the Class of 1927, who has been a spiritual inspira­tion to generations of Notre Dame men in spite of his modest acceptance re­mark that he "was the first in his class to retire and the last to get a degree." This event was based on a recognition of the importance of the souls and the hearts of men as well as their intel­lects. Not many of those who wit­nessed the presentation would exchange it for academic excellence. 
But in my mind the picture that will last longest as an argument against the quick acceptance of lower ranking took place on Sunday in the Com­munity Cemetery, when several hun­dred alumni gathered for a Field Mass commemorating especially the priests and Brothers, and a few pioneer lay­men, whose headstones brought back 115 years of men of all academic stat­ures. But no place in the publication of research is there more eloquent testi-^.r mony to the devotion to learning than on these monuments of lives given in the unselfish sharing of die Truth, that generations of young men might be made really free. 
I am sure diat every Notre Dame man would like to see the University 
1957 

erous alumni participation. 
But it seemed to me that Reunion Classes and their experiences proved that there are things we would not wish to sacrifice in the competition. Most assuring to everyone was the evi­dence that Notre Dame, obviously progressing in the material considera­tions of the current survey, has sacri­ficed no part of heart or soul. 

Pope Pins Ilonors HarrislMirg llisliop 

Most Rev. George L. Leech, Bishop of Harrisburg, who received an honor­ary degree from Notre Dame in 1942, has been appointed by Pope Pius XII as an assbtant at the Pontifical Throne, an honor held by only nine arch­bishops and seven bishops in the United States. Bishop Leech is now a mem­ber of the College of Patriarchs (ex officio) composed of archbishops and bishops who have been designated by tlie Pope to membership in the Papal Chapel. Members of the College rank after cardinals and are assigned to a special place around the Papal Throne during official Vatican ceremonies. Bishop Leech has been active in events sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Harrisburg. 
TV-Sponsored'Football Films 

An 11 -week series of football films, covering Notre Dame's 10 games, ore available for television sponsor­ship this fall beginning with the Purdue contest on September 30. The films are an exclusive feature of Tel Ra Inc., a nationally known Philadelphia TV newsreel company and commentary is by Gene Kelly, famous football announcer. Each film will run for 26 minutes, allow­ing for three one-minute commercials plus the opening and closing spon­sor identification. 
All of Notre Dame's games.are being filmed, in addition to another outstanding game for the weekend of October 21. The company does not accept beer or wine sponsorship. Films will be available east of Chicago for Tuesday showings, west of Chicago for Wednesday show­ings. For complete information, in­terested sponsors are advised to contact: George J. Kerrigan, Jr., 1518 Walnut St., Philadelphia 2, Pa. 
The Class of 1922 observed their 33th anniveisary. 






Keumn Weekeml • 1957 
Rugged and (still) sharp are these Men of 1937. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 13 
Brennan Elected President 
Roger P. Brennan, '33, of Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis, Cleveland, Ohio, is the new president of the Notre Dame Law Association. He was elected at a meeting of the Association's directors at The Law School on June 8. Other officers chosen at the same time are: Honorary President, Norman J. Bany. L'48, of Rothschild, Hart, Stevens & Barry, Chicago; Vice President, John 
J. Ryan, '33, Vice President and Gen­eral Counsel of Republic Aviation Cor­poration, Farmingdale, New York; Sec­retary, John J. Locher, Jr., L'36, of Barnes, Wadsworth, Elderkin, Locher & Pimie, Cedar Rapids, Iowa; Treas­urer, Raymond W. Troy, L'37, of Lum. Fairlie & Foster, Ne\vark, New Jersey; Executive Secretary, Thomas L. Mur­ray, L'51, of Seebirt, Oare & Deahl. South Bend, Indiana. 
New directors of the Association, elected in May in a canvas of the membership conducted by mail, are: George H. Gore, L'48, of Saunders. Curtis, Ginestra & Gore, Fort Lauder­dale, Florida; James P. Swift, L'24, Vice President and General Coun.<!el, Southwestern Life Insurance Company, Dallas, Texas; Michael L. Hines, L'48, Las Vegas, Nevada; and William E. Bradbury, L'16, of Bradbury & Brad­burj', Robinson, Illinois. 
Directors previously elected and con­tinuing in office are, in addition to the officers, the following: John M. Crim­mins, L'33, Assistant Chief Counsel of Koppers Company, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Circuit Judge Edward 
H. Fenlon, L'33, Petoskey, Michigan; and William E. Voor, L'25, of Voor, Jackson, Grant & McMichael, South Bend, Indiana. 


Moot Court 

Mr. Justice Brennan of the Supreme Court of the United States will preside over tlie court which \vill hear the final argument in the annual Moot Court Competition on AVednesday evening, October 23, 1957. Other members of the Court which will sit on that oc­casion are Chief Judge Biggs of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and United States Dis­trict Judge Graven of the Northern District of Io\va. 
The students who will participate in the argument before thb distingubhed tribunal are: John F. Murray of El­mira. New York; AVilliam J. Ragan of Buffalo, New York; Raymond J. Tam of Wahiawa, Oahu, Hawaii; and Don­ald L. Ver)' of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
These contestants were selected on the basis of their performance in the semi-final argument on April 15 be­fore the sLx judges of the Appellate Court of Indiana, sitting en banc. 


Association Meetings 
The Notre Dame Law Association plans a luncheon meeting on July 16 at the Biltmore Hotel, New York, in connection with the annual meeting of the American Bar Association. 

A very successful dinner meeting was held on May 1 at the Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago, in connection with the annual meeting of the Illinois State Bar Association. The principal address was given by Judge Luther M. Swygert, L'27, of the United States District Court for the Northern Dbtrict of Indi­ana. Judge Swygert presides over the Notre Dame Practice Court, a very important part of The Law School's program. After Judge Sw>'gert's ad­dress. Dean O'Meara spoke on some of the significant features of the Notre Dame program of legal education. Edmund A. Stephan, '33, of Mayer, Friedlich, Spiess, Tiemey, Brown & Piatt, Chicago, presided. 
The Chicago meeting followed the pattern of tlie dinner meeting held at the Carlton House, Pittsburgh, on Jan­uary 30 in connection with the annual meeting of the Pennsylvania Bar Asso­ciation. Thb meeting, arranged and presided over by Judge Hugh C. Boyle, '24, was an outstanding success. Many dbtingubhed guests attended, includ­ing, among otliers: David F. Maxwell, President of the American Bar Associ­ation; Arthur Littleton, President of the Pennsylvania Bar Association; Ira 

S. Hill, President of the Allegheny County Bar Association; Chief Justice Charles Alvin Jones of the Pennsylva­nia Supreme Court; and Edmund C. Wingerd, Chairman of the Pennsyl­vania State Board of Law Examiners. 
Hats Off 

Under the leadership of Judge Roger J. Kiley of the Appellate Court of Illinois and George J. O'Grady of Ross and O'Keefe, Chicago, tlie class of 1923 has made a generous contribu­tion to the Law Scholarship Fund. Thb b the first time a class has con­tributed as such. 
Prize Winners 

The Lawyers Title Award, con­tributed annually by the Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation, Richmond, Vir­ginia, to the student selected by the faculty for excellence in the law of real property, was presented this year to Vernon O. Teofan of Austin, Texas. Other awards were presented to the following: the Hoynes Award to Tho­mas S. Calder of Worcester, Massachu­setts; the Farabaugh Prize to Robert 'i 
P. Gorman of Tiskilwa, lUinob; the Law Week Award to William T. Do\vn­ing of Decatur, lUinob; and the Harry English Award to Patrick J. Berrigan of Lewbton, New York. All of the re­cipients received the LL.B. degree on , June 2. 

Justice Reed Talks At Banquet 
Fonner Supreme Court Justice Stanley 

F. Reed was the principal speaker at the Law School's fourth annual honors banquet. The distinguished jurist stated, "Our free enterprise system, and our classless society, which provide equal opportunities for all men, are what have made our country such a success­ful democracy." Justice Reed declared, "Our country has prospered, not be­cause we're richer, or wiser, or because of any particular stratification in our , ^ population, but because we have had the know-how to govern ourselves." 
National Alumni President Pat Canny ad­dresses 800 grads at the Alumni Banquet 


Ketuuatt Weekend 

John Bennett Shaw, '37, of Tulsa, Okla., presented a virtually complete collection of Lafcadio Heam books to the University on Reunion Weekend. Father Hesburgh received the gift in behalf of Notre Dame. 
1957 

Van Wallace and his 1927 classmates pose on the Library steps. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 15 
Class Contributions as of June 30, 
Number o( Class Contributors 1900 and before 7 1901 2 1902 5 1903 4 1904 4 1905 7 1906 7 1907 5 1908 5 1909 5 1910 5 1911 II 1912 5 1913 13 1914 16 1915 16 1916 _-. 14 1917 21 1918 20 1919 9 1920 16 1921 18 1922 36 1923 46 1924 _ 33 1925 64 1926 57 1927 77 1928 87­1929 79 1930 85 1931 107 1932 103 1933 95 1934 82 1935 lOI 1936 66 1937 79 1938 ..„ 95 , . 1939 .. 99' 1940 119 1941 118 1942 :•..,; 103 1943 107 1944 113 1945 72 1946 42 1947 108 1948 185 1949 281 1950 231 I95I 188 1952 207 1953 211 1954 169 1955 „ 171 1956 156 1957 47 Undergraduates 2 
Aliunni Corporations 26 
Gifts in Kind .._ 3 
Notre Dame Clubs 28 Totals r. 4300 
Xiimb«r of Alumnj 
70. . 13 " ' 13 16 24 23 33 21 31 32 
29 . 63 57 60 71 70 67 94 79 62 90 
113 173 218 224 311 267 388 452 467 478 526 518 544 543 505 416 452 498 557 643 589 567 566 527 337 
301 . 719 1054 1391 1157 917 1080 849 S91 947 
1036 1225 
— 23564 
1957 
Amoimt Contxibuted S 1,027.00 125.00 60.00 95.C0 85.00 515.00 1,185.00 180.00 185.00 825.00 1,160.00 755.CO 685.00 915.00 1,388.00 750.00 45,658.96 1,283.00 2,443.60 435.00 2,355.00 730.00 7,722.00 5,216.20 1,805.00 2,360.00 3,207.00 5,480.00 4,293.00 5,689.00 2,480.00 5,918.00 3.872.23 4,110.50 2,253.00 2,931.00 3,203 00 1,835.50 3.073.50 2,385.50 4 415.50 2,424.00 2.559.00 2,613.00 1.829.00 2,035.00 686.50 1,451.00 2,497.00 5,274.00 3,564 50 2,639.92 2,610.00 2,507.00 1,821.25 2.836.50 1,607.00 201.00 254.15 250.CO 21,350.00 .2,162.39 24,318.53 $222,656.23 


Mother Mary Aloysi, '22 Publishes Twelfth Book 

Mother Mary Aloysi, assistant to Mother Vera, Mother General of the Sisters of Notre Dame in Rome and recipient of a Ph.D. degree from Notre Dame in 1930 recently announced the 
• publication of her twelfth book. "The Immaculate Heart of Mary: The Taber­nacle of the Holy Spirit," was printed by a New York and Cincinnati pub­lisher, Frederick Pustet. The book was written in anticipation of the centen­nial of the apparition of the Blessed Mother to St. Bemadette in Lourdes. Mother Mary Aloysi is a native of Cleveland and she and Mother Vera are in the United States on a year's visit of Notre Dame convents. 
Three Degrees From Notre Dame 
She was the youngest in a family of ten children and has had a long career as a teacher and as a member of the order for more than a half cen­tury. She was head of the English Department of • Notre Dame College, Cleveland, in 1947 and also served as Acting Dean. In addition to a doc­torate, she also received two other de­grees at Notre Dame, a Bachelor of Arts in 1922 and a Master of Arts the following year. 
Priests Ordained In 



Sacred Heart Church 

Twelve seminarians of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross were ordained to the priesthood at Notre Dame on Jime 5th. The Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Bishop of Fort ^Vayne, Ind., was the ordaining prelate at the ceremonies held in Sacred Heart Church. 
Those ordained included Rev. John 

P. Schuneman, C.S.C, Belle Plaine, Minn.; Rev. John S. Corcoran, C.S.C, Rev. Bernard Christel, C.S.C, and Rev. James T. Banas, C.S.C, Chicago, 111.; Rev. Thomas E. Seidel, C.S.C, Minneapolis, Minn.; Rev. Richard Poorman, C.S.C, Sharon, Pa.; Rev. LeRoy E. Clementich, C.S.C, Minot, 
N. D.; Rev. Joseph Gaubinger, C.S.C, South Bend, Ind.; Rev. John R. Birkmeyer, C.S.C, Fort Lauderdale, • Fla.; Rev. John C Gerber, CS.C^ Toledo, Ohio; Rev. Jacob A. Smith, C.S.C, Mioocqua, Wise; and Rev. Joseph P. Carrico, C.S.C, Granger, Ind. 
The Class of 1942, including members of the Tlying Irish' iqaadiOB of WaM Win D. 
fifi444UO*l 



Weekend 1957 

The Class of 1912 came Iiacfc to the campus for their 45th reunion. 
of the Congregation of Holy Cross throughout the world, is located in Rome. Likewise, the University of 

Superior General Talks To ND Alumni in Rome 
ROME—^Universal Notre Dame Night in Rome, Italy, was observed with a talk by Very Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C., Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. The head table included, from left to right: Brother Loyola Christoph, C.S.C., Very Rev. Brodier Oswald, C.F.X., Father O'Toole, George Gleason, Rev. Bernard Ransing, C.S.C., Rev. Edward Hcston, C.S.C., and Brother Theophanc Schmitt, C.S.C. 
The ALUMNUS is privileged to print the excellent talk given by Father Christopher ]. O'Toole, C.S.C.,Superior General, at the Universal Notre Dame Night observance held in Rome, Italy. 
There are several very appropriate reasons for commemorating Universal Notre Dame Night here in Rome. First of all, Rome itself is the imiversal 

jCity par excellence. Now, more than 
•
 ever before, all roads—^by land, by sea and by air—lead to Rome. No other city in the world exercises as much at­

•
 traction for the historian, the classicist, the lovers of beauty and art, as does the 


Eternal City. Furthermore, Rome is the center of Christendom. Here, that eminent and saintly figure, our beloved Holy Father, Pius XII, radiates in all directions the spirit of Christ. His wel­come embraces not only those of the Catholic Faith, but all Christians and all men who come with good vidll and open hearts. How fortimate we are that our Holy Father Himself is an honorary alumnus of the University of Notre Dame. 
Another reason: the General Curia of the Congregation of Holy Cross, which looks not only to Notre Dame, but to all the houses and activities 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
Notre Dame itself has a long tradition of universality in the choice of its stu­dents. At this school—so dear to all of us—one will find representatives from practically all nations of the world. Truly Notre Dame is, in the best sense of the word, a melting-pot for students of all nations and all races. 
The Spirit of Notre Dame, a Reflection of the Spirit of Holy Cross 
Today, throughout the world, Notre Dame men are gathered together united by a tender and warm affection for their Alma Mater. This strong union is not merely one of good fellow­ship. It goes far deeper than that; it is based upon something profoundly spiritual. -Every student who goes out of Notre Dame should carry away with him an education as fine as that of any school in the country. But he carries away far more than that; he leaves Notre Dame with a spiritual grip on reality—^with the conviction that Christ and His Blessed Mother are at the very heart of learning and life. And it is this spiritual element which vivifies the root and trunk of that beautiful tree which branches out in so many different directions and which we know as the spirit of Notre Dame. 
In this connection, I would like to recall a letter which the Holy Father addressed to a former President — Father Hugh O'Donnell, for the cen­tenary of the University. After indi­cating His profound impression at the size and extent of the University, the Holy Father continues: "These are in­deed indications of an extraordinary physical growth made necessary by the scientific and spiritual expansion of the University. In fact, we like to think of them rather as an external expres­sion of the Spirit of Notre Dame, that indefinable, yet very real and whole­some spiritual atmosphere which hovers over your campus and which is spread to the comers of the earth by your alumni whose training has prepared them to serve as edifying examples of the virility and real value of truly Christian education. It is a spirit which gives meaning to the life and direction to the education of thousands of young men, a spirit which imbues the students of Notre Dame with a happy, purpose­ful concept of life, of man's dependence on his Creator and of hb active mem­bership in the Mystical Body of Christ. We gladly avail Ourselves of this oc­
casion to renew our commendation of that Spirit of Notre Dame, and pray that it may ever enjoy an even more universal and fruitful expansion." 
What is the spirit of the "fighting Irish" but a reflection, in another field, of tlie courageous spirit of the early pioneers of Holy Cross in America? What is the family spirit at Notre Dame but a reflection of the family spirit—the spirit of union in the Con­gregation of Holy Cross written into its very Constitutions framed by our 
>-- venerated Founder. What is the scholarly spirit at Notre Dame if not a reflection and result of our Consti­tutions on studies and teaching? In a word, the spirit of Notre Dame should be and is the spirit of the Congregation of Holy Cross translated into modem times and terms and reaching out to 
 faculty, student body, alumni and friends throughout the world. 
Spirit of Holy Cross—The Past 
Allow me to re\'iew for you some results of this spirit of Holy Cross. And first of all, for a moment, let us glance toward the past. The origins of Holy Cross go back to the year "1821, when a saintly Priest—^Father James Dujarie, pastor of a little parish at Ruille-sur-Loir in the Department of the Sarthe, conceived the idea of gathering to­gether a group of young men to help him in the task of Christian education. At that time, as you know, on accoimt of the political upheavals which had shaken France, Christian education had suffered a very severe blow. Father Dujarie wished to do something about this in his o\vn milieu. These young men, whom he grouped about him, he fonmed into a society, called Brothers of St. Joseph. At the same time, he conceived the idea of founding a com­mimity of Sisters for purposes of Christian education. These were the Sisters of Providence, who are now spread throughout France, .America and other parts of the world. As .time went on, this commimity of Sisters— for various administrative reasons... — divided into two groups, one with' the motherhouse at Ruille-sur-Loir, and the other, with the motherhouse at St. Mary-of-the-Woods, near Terre Haute, 
. Indiana. Undoubtedly, some of you, who are present here, are very well acquainted with the Sisters of Provi­dence in the United States. 
Meanwhile, on account of age and infirmities. Father Dujarie, at the sug­gestion of the BishoD of Le Mans, re­quested Father Basil Moreau to take over the direction of the Brothers of St. Joseph. Father Moreau had al­ready founded a group of Auxiliary Priests in the diocese of Le Mans. The Brothers of St. Joseph and the Auxil­iary Priests of Father Moreau were then imited to found what we now call, the Congregation of Holy Cross (1837). Father Moreau also founded a com­munity of Sisters, called the Marianites of Holy Cross. These Sisters, Uke those founded by Father Dujarie, grew in numbers and eventually were divided into three groups with three distinct motherhouses—one in France, at Le Mans; another in the United States, at St. Mary's, near Notre Dame, Indi­ana; and a third, at St. Laurent, near the city of Montreal in Canada. After the imion of the two societies was ef­fected. Father Moreau worked might and main to have the Constitutions of the Congregation approved by the Holy See. This approval came about in 1857, April 28, although the pro­mulgation of the decree did not take place imtil May 13. 
Here are some figures, which will give you a notion of how the Congre­gation of Holy Cross expanded in these early years. In 1840, we find foimda­tions in Algeria; in 1841, in the United States; in 1847, in Canada; in 1848, in Guadeloupe; in 1849, in Italy; in 
1852, in Bengal; in 1854, in Poland. By 1860, three years after the appro­bation of the Constitutions, the Con­gregation of Holy Cross could count 77 estabb'shments in France, 15 in the United States, 7 in Canada. At the same time, the Sisters of Holy Cross had established 27 houses. Meanwhile the venerated Founder and the Congregation of Holy Cross imderwent a series of severe trials caused both by internal problems and by the attitude of a Civil Government unfriendly to religious Congregations and to Christian education. However, these setbacks, suff'erings and trials were the Calvar>', so to speak, which lead to Easter morning; they were the pre­lude to even greater developments of the Congregation throughout the world and particularly in the United States and Canada. 
Spirit of Holy Cross—the Present 
Now what of Holy Cross in the pres­ent. The Congregation now has houses and activities in the following coun­tries: France, United States, Canada, Italv, Eastern Pakistan, India, Haiti, Chile. Brazil, Spain and Scotland. In the Constitutions of Holy Cross, we 
Father OTooIe was elected Superior Gen­eral of the Congregation of Holy Croa in 1930 and his official residence is at the Gcneralatc in Rome, Italy. He is a Notre Dame alumnus of the 1929 class and was ordained to the priesthood in 1933. 
read that the Congregation has, as its special end, first, the sahctification of souls by the ecclesiastical ministry, particularly the preaching of the word of God; second, the apostolate in the foreign missions; third. Christian edu­cation and instruction through teach­ing, the works of Catholic action, Catholic social activities and the apo­stolate of the press. Let us pause for a moment to see how the Congregation at present is realizing these various special ends approved by the Holy See. First of all, with r^ard to the sancti­fication of souls, we find Mission Bands preaching retreats and missions of vari­ous kinds in France, the United States and Canada, and Scotland. Lately, a very modem retreat house has been dedicated at Notre Dame, particularly for closed retreats both for single and married people. Holy Cross Priests are working in some 63 parishes throughout the world and in the Armed Services. The activities of the Family Rosary Crusade are already familiar to you. Suffice it to say here that the magni­ficent films on the Rosary, which have been produced in Spain, are being translated into all the leading languages of the world and will cany the power­ful message of Our Lady everywhere. The television and radio programs, sponsored by the Family Rosary, cover the length and breadth of the United States. Another instance is the famed Oratory of St. Joseph, founded by Brother Andre, the great modem (Continued on page 26)/ 
Dr. Joseph M. Jenkins (right) receives his Notre Dame diploma, dated 1902, from Donald 
A. Doheny, president of the St Louis Club. The presentation marked the highlight of the observance of Dr. Jenkins' 75th birthday. 

N.D. Presents Degree to Doctor on 75th Birthday 
Notre Dame doesn't often take a diploma to a graduate—most have to come to Notre Dame—but Joseph M. Jenkins, M.D., of St. Charles, Mo., is an exception. 
The granting of liis diploma was unusual in another respect, too: It took him more than half a century to get it. . . 
Called from the University to his boyhood home in Uniontown, Ky., by the death of his mother in May, 1902, Joe Jenkins was unable to return for graduation exercises, because he didn't have the fifty dollar fare back to South Bend. 
On Sunday, May 5 of this year, Donald A. Doheny, president of the St Louis Notre Dame Club, presented die diploma, honoris causa, to Dr. Jenkins, on behalf of Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. 
It was the doctor's seventy-fifth birth­day, and the diploma was only one, though one of the best surprises the day held for him. 
For the presentation was made at a St Charles Chamber of Commerce banquet, at which he was named that city's first annual "Man of the Year." 
A general practitioner. Dr. Jenkins is in his fiftieth year of serving the St Charles area, and has been active in civic affairs for the last 37 years, dur­ing which he has lived in the city itself. 

It took an "emergency message" to get die guest of honor to the banquet, as he had planned to spend a quiet birthday at home with his family. He was unaware of the real reason for the call, until his black medical bag was taken from him, and he was escorted into the hall, to the applause of more than four hundred persons. The ban­quet guests had learned the identity of the "Man of die Year," only a few moments earlier. 
Moved to tears by the ovation, the sight of many familiar faces and of course, Notre Dame's recognition, "Doc" became the principal figure in a program conducted in the manner of television's "This Is Your Life." 
Among the evening's speakers was Rev. Paul C. Reinert, president of St Louis University from which institu­tion Dr. Jenkins received his M.D. de­gree in 1908. Father Reinert praised him as the "family" doctor, who spe­cializes in "entire human beings," rather than in "one small part"; who sees the patient as an individual and considers his moral and spiritual wel­fare as well as his physical condition. 
Both Doheny and Father Reinert lauded Dr. Jenkins as a credit to the institutions they represented, and to Christianity. 
Known in St. Charles as a humorisi and scholar, as well as a humanitarian and physician. Dr. Jenkins was lauded as a man who crowns his victories and good works with humility. 
The Chamber of Commerce awarded him a plaque which reads, "In recog­nition of many years of untiring, de­voted services to the community of St. Charles, Mo.," and gave him a portablif television set. 
A true Notre Dame man. Dr. Jenkins is an avid supporter of the Universit\-'s ideals as well as its football team. 
He is living proof that the diploma, whether it comes early or late, does not make the man. The man makes the diploma meaningful. 
PREPARE NOW 

for The 1958 Centenary of OUR LADY OF LOURDES 
The Confraternity of the Immacu­late Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes at Notre Dame, under the direction of the Holy Cross Fathers, Notre Dame, Indiana, is officially aiHliatcd (in 1874) with the Archconfratemity at Lourdes, France. 
Write for information about the spiritual advantages of enrollment for yourself and family in prepa­ration for the 1958 Centenar\­Celebration. 
To obtain LOURDES WATER trom the Shrine in France, write to: 
LOURDES Notre Dame 4. Indiana 

Community Cemetery of the Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers was the scene of final event on this year's annual Reunion Program. 

Alumni Attend Field Mass On Class Reunion Weekend 
, The ALUMNUS requested permis­sion to print excerpts from Father John Wilson's excellent sermon at the Reunion Field Mass. Father Wilson^ '32, Assistant Director of the Province Development Staff, also was celebrant of the Mass. 
This Mass is being offered here in the Community Cemetery as the of­ficial, spiritual. Alumni observance of the Centenary of the Papal approval of the Constitutions of the Holy Cross Fathers and Brothers. It is offered in adoration and gratitude to Almighty 

^ God for Hk manifold blessings of the past century on Holy Cross, and on Notre Dame since this is a University occasion. On this Pentecost Sunday, as we stand at the beginning of our second hundred years, we beg the Holy Spirit to continue His marvelously wise guidance here and in Holy Cross in­stitutions all over the world. We offer this Mass for Holy Cross and Notre Dame dead—religious, lay faculty, stu­dents, alumni, friends—all over the world wherever they may be buried, in far-off countries, on battlefields, in peaceful cemeteries here at home. And finally, in a special way, we offer this Mass for the priests. Brothers and lay­men who lie here in the Community Cemetery and to whom we all owe so much as the architects and builders of our first hundred years. 
Th b occasion, this quiet, peaceful place, these gray stone crosses marking the graves of our beloved dead—all these things combine to preach a ser­mon more eloquent than any human words. They speak of a century's ac­complishments more effectively than any recitation of deeds and dates and names. What an occasion is this! Here we are, offering Mass on Pentecost Sunday surrounded by the graves of our pioneers, in the shadow of the insti­tution which gave most of them birth, sent them forth for the glory of God, and the salvation of souls, and finally welcomed them home when their work was done. 
^Ve wander up and down these quiet, shaded paths and stop before the older graves in the cemetery, those of our pioneer priests and Brothers who laid so well the foundation for the world­wide fame of Notre Dame and the world-wide growth of their religious family. Holy Cross: Father Sorin, Fathers Granger, Corby, Walsh; Brothers Raphael, Peter, Bernard and all the rest. Here we can almost feel the spirit of Father Moreau, the founder of Holy Cross, who, though laid to rest in his native France, finds biuied here many of his co-workeis in the difficult early days. 
We tarry longer before the graves of the men we knew and loved. Here we read a name, and smile as we recall ' a kindly sense ofhumor, a human touch that brightened the scene wherever its owner went—we are standing before the grave of a Father Farley or a Father O'Malley or a Brother Just. 
Again we see another name and are filled with a sense of loyalty and gra­titude to the old school that gave us this man and others like him—^we are looking down on the spot where lies a Father Charles or J. Hugh O'Donnell, or Father Lavin or Brother Alphonsus. 
Some men who lie here are famous —they have left a great mark on this place and their shadows have stretched across our land and beyond. But most of them lived quiet, obscure lives of devoted service. It is only in the sure penpective of history that we see the blessed accumulation of these many lesser lives making the others great. Without our so called "little men," our big men, Sorin, Cavanaugh, Zahm, Nieuwland, could not have been. 
Notre Dame and Holy Cross face a great challenge today, and great op­portunities. This challenge and these opportimities can be met in large part by more priestly manpower, priests who will work hand in hand %vith Holy Cross Brothers and, as al^vays, with devoted laymen on the faculty and in administrative and advisory capacities. The future of our beloved University— as well as of all the works of the Holy Cross Fathers all over the world—^is to a laige e.\tent in the hands of the 300 young men, and others who will join them, who now stand at various stages on the road to the priesthood. They deserve our daily prayerful support that they may keep faith with a glorious past. 
Most of these priests. Brothers and laymen under these crosses, be it noted, said the words of their lives, sofdy, in a hidden manner—^most of them did not shout. Yet their voices have joined together to produce a mighty hymn of praise, an "Ave Maria" heard round the world. In these critical, challenging days, our generation is called upon to add our verse to this Ave Maria, a song that the ne.\t century will swell to an even mightier crescendo for God, Country and Notre Dame, imder the motto of the Congregation of Holy Cross: "Ave Crux: Spes Unica—^Hail, Holy Cross: Our One Hope." 
major areas of cooperation with the Alumni organizations — the personal 
Students Form Committee 
contact with the prospective Notre 
Dame man. The students \vill be given a full brochure concerning the Uni-

To Contact High Schools 
' versity and the representative will be 
by JACK MARTZELL, '58 

How can Notre Dame be certain of getting the best students coming from American high schools today? The search for the answer to this question has been the main reason for the for­mation of a new Student Senate Com­mittee—the Student Committee for Enrollment Development. The aim of the committee is to formulate a pro­gram of high school student contact to be coordinated with the Director of Admissions and the existing and pres­ently expanding Alumni programs. Working witli the committee will be geographical clubs, the Senior Class, and various commissions of the Student Senate. The program, with its basic intention of working for and widi the Alumni organizations, will consist mainly of four phases wliich can adjust 
GIFT APPRECIATION 

Dear Father Gavanaugh: Thank you kindly for your letter of April 2 acknowledging my small gift to the Foundation. Starting out in the practice of law is no easy matter. The financial problems involved are only com­pounded by the demands placed upon tlie young practitioner by every conceivable type of charitable or­ganization. You are no longer asked to give; you are told to give and in many instances precisely how much. All too infrequently die amoimt set is entirely dbpropoitionate to the person's abilities. I can truthfully say that I have never felt this way about the Notre Dame programs. The needs have alwaj-s been legitimate and objec­tively presented. They have always been presented as invitations rather than demands. I say diese diings because I want you to know that my gifts up until now have been necessarily small but they shall increase shortly as my capacity progresses but more so in appreciation of the attitude of mind and heart of yourself and your asso­ciate fathers in the Foundation's program. 
to meet the specific needs of the 
Alumni. 
The initial work of the program will begin in die fall of 1957 before the students return to Notre Dame. Specially appointed students will con­tact the high schools in his area which should be in session by that time. He will seek an opportunity to speak with outstanding students and gain infor­mation from the Administration con­cerning their top students. At the out­set the areas of major concentration will be Metropolitan New York, Boston, Chicago, and Detroit; Northern Ohio (Cleveland, Toledo, and Akron); Fort WajTie, Indiana; Dallas, Texas; and Shreveport and New Orleans, Louisiana. 
AVith the information thus attained, representatives of the committee will be sent to various schools with the in­tention of having meetings with out­standing students. This is one of the 
John Paul Cullen, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and 
well prepared to answer questions. The third phase of the program will entail a follow-up of the beginning work by the representatives during the Christmas vacation. The fourth phase will be the en­couraging of top students gleaned from the meetings to visit the campus at the end of the semester. Thus they can see for themselves the opportunities that e.Kist for getting a fine education as well as get the feeling of life at Notre Dame. These four phases present the be­ginning work of the new student com­mittee. Integration with and supple­mentation of Alumni programs wU begin during the summer. By the fall of 1957 the intention is to have a well organized student-Alumni program that will be the answer to the question of how Notre Dame can assure her­self of getting the top high school student. 
a member of the 1922 class, presented a 
valuable collection of Sherwood Anderson papers to the University Library on Reunion Weekend. He is shoun making the presentation to Father Hesburgh. 
Participating in the centennial observance arc, from left to right: Rev. Theodore J. Afehling, CS.C, Provincial; Rev. Richard Grimm, CS.C, Assistant Religious Superior; Rev. Harold Riley, CS.C, Superior of Holy Cross Seminary; Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Bishop of Fort Wayne; Rev. Michael Early, C.S.C., Superior of the Community Infirmary; Rev. Sigmund Jankon-ski, C.S.C, Pastor of St Stanislaus Church, South Bend, Ind.; Rev. Paul Rankin, CS.C, Superior of Moreau Seminary; and Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, CS.C, Asst ProvinciaL 
Congregation of Holy Cross Observes Centennial of Vatican Approbation 
Priests and Brothers of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross throughout the world began a year-long observance of the centennial of the Vatican's ap­
pro^'al  of  the  community's  constitu­ 
tions on  May 13.  
Bbhop  Leo  A. Pursley  of  Fort  

\Va)'ne celebrated a Solemn Pontifi­cal Mass marking the occasion in Sacred Heart Church while the sermon was preached by Rev. Bernard I. Mul­lahy, C.S.C, assistant provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana province. 
A highlight of the observance was 

. the ground-breaking ceremonies for the new $3,000,000 Moreau Seminary to be erected on the Notre Dame campus. Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C, pro­vincial, officiated by digging the first shovel of dirt at the site. Scheduled for completion in the fall of 1958, the building will house two hundred semi­narians studying for the priesthood in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
The new seminary, like the old struc­ture it will replace, is named for Rev. Basil Anthony Moreau, a priest of the diocese of LeMans, France, who founded the Holy Cross Fathers in 1835. This society of priests was later united with the Brothers of St. Joseph in the Congregation of Holy Cross. The communitys' constitutions were ap­proved by the Holy See's Sacred Con­gregation for the Propagation of the Faith on May 13, 1857. Father Moreau was officially approved as a candidate for beatification on March 15, 1955. 

The Holy Cross Fathers operate Notre Dame, University of Portland, Kings College and Stonehill College besides several other educational insti­tutions here and abroad. They serve as missionaries, principally in East Pakistan, and as pastors and editors. The Brothers of Holy Cross administer St. Edward's University, and 36 high schools and boys' homes in the United States in addition to being engaged in missionar)' and editorial work. 
CBS Awards $2000 Grant For "Cost of Education" 
Columbia Broadcasting System Foim­dation. Inc., has awarded a $2,000 "cost of education grant" to Notre Dame in recognition of the e.xecutive post which John A. Sclineider, '48, holds with CBS as general manager of its television spot sales. In announcing the grant, president Ralph F. Colin of. the Foundation emphasized the impor­tance of imrestricted gifts. "We believe that grants which a college or uni­versity can apply to its'place of great-, est need are grants which give the college or university the greatest help at this time," Mr. Colin said. 
Schneider was one of 19 key execu­tives who received recogaition from CBS. Twelve colleges and imiversities benefited from these selections. The figure of $2,000 appro.ximates the "cost of education" which is paid from an institution's endowment or other ac­cumulated funds over and above the cost actually charged to the student. The CBS plan undertakes to "repay" independent colleges and universities in part on behalf of a limited num­ber of e.\ecutives meetmg certain qualifications. 
:.-• /.'it:i:::::i. Au:ji.i:-Si'!j:n;ibt:r, 1957 3.V 
MIDLAND-ODESSA—Father Richard Grimm, C.S.C., was guest speaker on Universal Moire Dame Night in Midland. Texas. John Buckley is the club's new president. 
John J. McLaughlin, '34, on behalf of the Class of 1938, presents check for $2,498.50 to Carleton G. .MacDougald of Cranston, R. 1., critically injured with his wife in an automobile accident in Virginia in September of 1955. Left to right, seated, are Mrs. (Catherine) MacDougald, Catherine Siena, 3; Martha, 2; Carleton, and Carleen, 4; standing, James M. McMuIlen, '36; Jack Curtin, '48, and Mc­Laughlin, all of the Notre Dame Club of R. L Charles 'Chuck' Sweeney, '38, former N.D. All-Amcrican end and now a South Bend business executive, was chairman of the drive. 
Notre Dame is well represented on the faculty of King's College in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. With an enrollment of 850 men. Kings was founded in 19-16 and has a fine reputation as a center of learning. This group of Holy Cross priests and Brothers arc assigned to the col­lege. First row, left to right, are Fathers John Dupuis, Thomas Sheehy, Aloysius Cussen, George Benaglia, president, Richard Gorman, Hcr\'c LeBlanc, and William Donahue. Second row: Mr. Edward Hcnnessy, Fathers William Maloughney, Thomas Campbell, Edward Fagan, Augustine Peverada, Brother John Grimes, and Father James Kline. Third row: Fathers Eugene Jarczynski, Roger Quilty, Patrick Duffy, Thomas Feeley, Edward Hoffman, Brother Jerome Hcaly, and Father Daniel Lynch. 

Fr.Cunningham Cited By St. John's Univ. 
Rev. William Cunningham, C.S.G., '07, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1919, was one of 14 dis­tinguished Americans honored at St. John's University. Collcgcville, Minn., when the school awarded Centennial Citations as part of its 100th annivcr­saiy obscr\'ancc. 
Father Cunningham was cited as "an apostle, ambassador and educational statesman." He was pi'aised as a writer and editor and as dean of American Catholic higher education. The cita­tion stated that "you have scn.-ed with distinction on the Board of Review of the North Central Association of Col­leges and Secondar)' Schools: on the executive committee of the Association of .'Vmeiican Colleges: and as vice-president representing the College and University Department of the National Catholic Educational Association since 1937." 
The citation read, "In grateful rec­ognition and appreciation for the ser\'­ice you have rendered American higher education, the Church, and the nation. 
the faculty and student community of 
St. John's University . . . takes joy in 
. . . presenting you with this award." 

Announce Promotion Of Faculty Members 
The promotion of twenty-eight Notre Dame faculty members was announced by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, vice president for academic aflairs. 
Appointed to full professorahips are Brother Coliimba CuiTan, CS-C-­chemistiy: Elie DenissolT, philosophy:'; Rev. Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C, econom­ics; Paul Grillo, architectm-e; Joseph LaSallc, mathematics: and Marshall Smelser, histoiy. 
Newly appointed associate profes­sor include Thomas Broden and Wien­czyslaw Wagner, law; Norman Haaser and Donald Lewis, mathematics: John Hardy, English: Isidore Hodes, elec­trical engineering; John Logan, general program; Charles Roedig, modem languages:Rev. Albert Schlitzcr, C.S.C, religion; and Leonard Sommer, speech. 
Twelve faculty members have been promoted from instnictor to assistant professor. They are Rev. Leonard Banas, C.S.C, classics: Rev. Frederick BaiT, C.S.C, Rev. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., and Rev. Matthew Miceli, C.S.C, religion; Rev. Michael Murphy, C.S.C, geologv'; John Fizer, modem languages; Robert J. McGraw, archi­tecture: Ralph Mclnemy, philosophy; Elias Schwartz, English; Richard Stevens, developmental reading pro­gram; Stanley R. Thier, engineering drawing; and Vincent Ti^ynclis, chemistiv. 

It's the BIGGEST!! 
(Editor's Note: The current 80­page magazine sets a new "con­tents record" for Alumni Office publications. This issue of the ALUMNUS contains reports from 100 
(repeat, 100) local alumni clubs and the Florida State Convention! Some clubs submitted as many as ]2 photos which normally v/e are glad to receive. However, a total of 190 pictures couldn't be squeezed into an issue even this large (that's space-wise as well as economically). Our thanks to all club officers for their fine cooperation. John Cackley). 



Father O'Toole 

(Continued from page 19) apostle of St. Joseph, whose cause of beatification is now before the Holy See. This immense Church—the largest in the western hemisphere—receives annually approximately four million pilgrims and visitors. In the foreign fields, the Holy Sec has entrusted to the Congregation of Holy Cross, the archdiocese of Dacca and the diocese of Chittagong in East-em Pakistan, as well as the .'Apostolic Prefecture of Haflong in the Province of Assam in India. In these Vicariates a substantial number of Holy Cross Priests and Brotliers—many of whom recei%'ed their education at Notre Dame 
—are carrjong the message of the Church to the people of these countries. In education the Priests and Bro­
thers of Holy Cross have under their charge some 40,000 students. Tiiere arc nine printing or publishing hou.ses in the Congregation. There are seven homes for boys — delinquents or or­phans, and one rather unique center for working girls in the city of Mont­real, called tile Centre Maria Goretti. 
In general, the statistics are some­what as follows: 1) The Congregation, administrative-wise, is divided into six Provinces, five Vice Provinces, three Vicariates, two Districts; 2) houses and activities number 260; 3) personnel (in­cluding the aspirants), about 3300; 4) the total family of Holy Cross, includ­ing the Sisters of Holv Cross, about 
7500. This brief recitation of facts and fig­ures will give you a clearer idea of the working out in practice of the-spirit of Holy Cross. 
Spirit of Holy Cross—The Future What of the future? It is of tlie very essence of any active religious in­stitute to pioneer. AVhen the pioneer­ing .spirit dies, then the zest and zeal and vigor of the Institute begin to decline. Certainly, pioneering is in the tradition of Holy Cross from the veiy beginning. Pioneering — which is an­other way of saying expansion — con­tributes new life and vigor to the com­munity. It offers a challenge while, at the same time, it is an almost essential condition of vigorous life. At the present time, thank God, vocations are coming in good numbers. We will continue our pioneering work, therefore, first of all, of course, in those directions suggested or indicated by the Holy See. You yourself know of the tremendous field there is in North 
-America, particularly in the area of education — higher and secondary. Important as this is, there are even more imponant areas, more strategic areas, throughout the world. When you compare tlie facilities offered to Catholic young men and women in the United States, Canada and Europe for education with that which is offered, .say on the continents of Asia and .\frica, then you have some idea of the tremendous challenge which faces the Church and which faces the Congre­gation of Holy Cross as a Congrega­tion within tlie Church. The greatest need today is obWousIy to be found on the continents of Asia and Africa. With the help of God, we hope to carry on the beautiful spirit of cour­ageous pioneering that is so character­istic of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Conclusion 
In the beautiful mother Church of the Congregation of Holy Cross at Le Mans, there is found in the crypt a magnificent marble tomb executed by a French sculptor—M. Charlier. In it rest the remains of the venerated Founder of Holy Cross — Father Basil Moreaii soon we hope to be raised to the honors of the altar. In another vast church in Montreal, in a black marble tomb lie the remains of Bro­ther Andre—the Apostle of St. Joseph. The cause of beatification of this humble Brother is now before the Con­gregation of Rites in Rome. Both were gifted with great vision; the one fore­saw a Religious Society the influence of whose Fathers and Brothers would penetrate throughout the world. His dream has come true particularly at Notre Dame. The other (Brother Andre) foresaw a great basilica rising on Mount Royal in honor of St. Joseph. His dream has come true. Father Sorin foresaw Our Lady mounted on a golden dome far above the tall wil­
lows that bordered the banks of St. Joseph's river. His dream came true. But these dreams and these accomplish­ments were based upon constant sacri­fice and selfdenial, upon humility. They would have been impossible had it not been for the zeal and vision of Father Moreau who wrote the charter of Holy Cross at Notre Dame de Sainte-Croix over a hundred years ago. And so the spirit of Notre Dame du Lac—Our Lady of the Lake—^Notre Dame, is the spirit of Notre Dame de Sainte-CroLx—Our Lady of Holy Cross. Only because the pioneers of the Con­gregation and of Notre Dame were willing to stand at the foot of the cross in hardship and suffering and sacrifice, was it possible to raise the image of Our Lady to the glorious golden dome. There that image stands serene, visible to those who travel by the highways of air or land—a constant reminder to the thousands of students and Alumni who tread the quiet campus paths, of the tnjc spirit of Notre Dame. 




estern %lnion 
DEB350 SYB588 1957 MAY 28 PM 3-56 
SY WA 453 GOVT NL PD=THE WHITE HOUSE WASHINGTON DC 28 = REVEREND THEODORE M HESBURGH, CSC PRESIDENT= UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME IND= 
PLEASE GIVE MY GREETINGS TO THE STUDENTS, FACULTY AND GUESTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ASSEMBLED IN COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES; AND MY CONGRATULATIONS TO THE DISTINGUISHED RECIPIENT OF YOUR LAETARE MEDAL, THE HONORABLE CLARE BOOTHE LUCE. 
IN HER MANY AND BRIIUANT CAREERS, MRS. LUCE IS AN EXAMPLE OF INSPIRED TALENT. HER DEVOTION TO THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE NATION AND THE FREE WORLD ARE IN THE LAETARE TRADITION OF CITIZENSHIP OUTSTANDING IN FAITH AND GOOD WORKS. 
CONGRATULATIONS TO MRS. LUCE AND TO THE GRADUATES OF THE CLASS OF 1957 JOINED IN THE HOPES OF HIGHER SERVICE TO GOD AND NEIGHBOR= 

DWIGHT D EISENHOWER=. 

DALLAS—^The Notre Dame Club of Dallas sponsored a city-wide Novena for world peace to Our Lady from May 4-12. A replica of the Grotto and an outdoor altar were erected on the campus of Jesuit High School. Total attendance was estimated by Chairman Sam A. Wing, Jr., as about 3,3C0. Members of the arrangements committee, shown in front of the Grotto, are left to right, John J. Moras, Joseph O'Rourke, A. D. Smith, Dave Cowdin, Jr., John Darrouzet, Mike Doran, Lancaster Smith, J. M. Reichenstein, Jr., Charles Lohr, club 
president Harold Tehan, club chaplain Monsignor William F. O'Brien and Wing. 
Three Parishes Participate In Dallas N.D. Alumni Novena 
A family novena honoring the Blessed Virgin and dedicated to worid peace was sponsored recently by the Notre Dame Club of Dallas from May 4 to May 12. Bishop Thomas K. Gorman of the Dallas-Ft. Worth diocese offici­ated at the opening ceremonies on the front campus of Jesuit High School. 
During each of the nine evenings three Dallas parishes participated in the services which consisted of hymns, Rosaiy, Memorarc and Benediction. 
BULLETIN 
Mrs. John J. Jordan, wife of Notre Dame's head basketball coach, died suddenly af home on June 24 of a heart attack. She was the former Miss Irene Howard, of Chicago, III., and was married to Johnny Jordan in 1936. Other survivors include her mother, two sisters and four bro­thers. A Memorial Mass was held at Sacred Heart Church on the cam­pus before the body was taken to Chicago where funeral services were conducted in St. John the Baptist Church, two days later. 

The club encouraged family groups to attend and it was especially noteworthy that the suggestion was well received. General chairman of the arrangements for the novena was Sam A. Wing, Jr., past president of the N. D. Club of Dallas, and members of his committee included Msgr.' William F, O'Brien, club chaplain; Mike Doran: Joe O'Rourke; Dave Cowdin, Jr.; John Moran: Lancaster Smith; John Dar­rouzet; A. D. Smith; Mrs. Charles Lohr; J. M. Reichenstein, Jr.: and club president Harold Tehan. 
Prof. Robert Ervin, '36 Resigns From Lobund 
Robert F. Ervin, '36, assistant direc­tor for administration in Lobund In­stitute, has resigned to accept a position as manager of research (Detroit) of Parke, Davis and Company, nationally-known pharmaceutical plant. Bob has been associated with the germ-free life research project in Lobund for the past 20 years and has assisted Professor James A. Reyniers, director of the Lobund staff, in the development of techniques for raising germ-free ani­mals. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1936 with a B.S. degree in phar­macy and received a masters in bac­teriology two years later. 
As assistant director for administra­tion on the Institute's staff, he was in charge of the physical plant, __ publications, I -*?"•] public relations and the person­nel engaged in this work. While he de­voted himself almost entirely 
Robert F. Ervin 

to Lobund re­search in recent years. Bob formerly taught bacteriological photography, personal and community hygiene and various laboratory courses at the Uni­versity. He is a former president and secretary-treasurer of the Indiana branch of the Society of American Bacteriologists. 
Bob was associate editor of "Lobund Reports" and was a frequent contribu­tor to the "Journals of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine" and the "Journal of Documentary Reproduction." 
In 1955 he won an award from the Chicago Dental Society for his work in the germ-free field. Ervin was elected secretary of the 1936 Class at the group's 20th Reimion last year. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 27 
18 Wayne State 9

^^^.3-p^,?5'¥:;r7ri?^i^S!i^r 18 .. 9
 Detroit .—.. 22 Lawrence Tech 5 15 Michigan State _. 12 20 Ohio State _.— -7




^^^iaiLis^a(g 
21 Indiana 6 14 Illinois 13 
8 Wisconsin : 19 17 Fcnn .„: 10 17 Case - 10 

Varsity Teams Win 86, Lose 44 
9th in N.C.A..A. Tourney; Denis Hemmerle 2nd in Epee; Jo­seph Klein tie for 10th in 

gan, Barclay Ewart, Joe Fore­0 Indiana 3
Football Sabre. 
man, Aubrey Lewis, 1st, one-3 Central Michigan 2 
Won 2, Lost 8 

mile relay. 4 Michigan (10 innings) 5 0 Michigan .._ 3
ND OPP 
Central Collegiate Conference 8 Ohio University 3 Wrestling 13 So. Methodist ... .. 19 
Meet: Notre Dame 65, Mar­4 Ohio University 7 Won 3, Lost 720 Indiana 6 quette 36^ , Western Michi­3 Michigan State 4 
ND OPP 14 Purdue gan 2954, Central Michigan 

8 Northwestern . _ 414 Michigan State 11^ , Wayne 10, Drake and 3 Northwestern 27 
12 Glenview N.AS (7 inn.) 1
0 Oklahoma 23 Findlay ... . 3
Loyola 8, Bradley 5/., De­
4 Wisconsin ; -•. I troit 4. 
Navy 12 Miami (Ohio) 14 
9 Wisconsin .1^ ..-„; 14 
13 Pittsburgh 11 E.'Illinois 19 
14, Michigan (6 innings) 0
21 No. Carolina Chicago Relays: Notre Dame 34 Chicago 0
9 Great Lakes ;NA S _...: 0(Ed Monnelly, Al Porter, 
8 Io^va 12 W. Illinois _ 15 
3 Michigan State 1Dick DiCamillo, Dale Van­
20 So. California 8 N. Illinois - 21 
6 Northwestern 2denberg), 1st, two-mile relay. 
16 Illinois U. (Chi.) 14 18 Alma* 2

Basketball 16 Marquette 19 
4 Western Michigan* 2 0 Wheaton 26 
Won 20, Lost 8 Outdoor Track 2 Northwestern* 9 ND OPP 6 Northwestern* I
Won 3, Lost 1 Terry Crowley 2nd in 147-lb. 
98 St. Joseph 55 2 Western Michigan 4 class, Wheaton Invitational OPP 
75 Wisconsin 55 ND 8 loxva State** 13 Tourney. 
60 Northwestern 75 59 Missouri 72 23 Colorado State** 2 72 Purdue , 85 69 1/3 Pittsburgh 61 2/3 9 Te-Nas** .._ 0 86 Valparaiso 74 74 Michigan State 67 4 Penn State** 5 75 Louisville 85 82/2 Army 57/= Golf 
*NC.AA District Tournament 
72 New York* 71 Won 13, Lost 2 
Texas Relays: mile relay, third; at Kalamazoo, Mich. (Notre 
91 Brigham Young* 66 ND . . OPP ,.^ 
sprint medley relay, fourth. Dame; Midwest Champions) 
79 Manhattan* . 86 21/2 LouisviUe Univ. . „ 5/= 84 Buder 86 Ohio State Relays: sprint med­**NCA.\ National Tournament 155^ Bradley 2/= 82 Northwestern 61 ley relay, second; broad jump. at Omaha. 13/s Western 111. State.. 4/= 90 Loyola 76 Jack Cote, second; 8B0-yard 31/2 Wabash College.- 4/= 86 Michigan State 76 relay, tied for second; one 28/5 Tri-Statc College_ I/2 81 Illinois . 99 and one-half mile, Mike Ha-.Cross Country 27/= Detroit Univ. 8/= 94 Indiana ' 82 yerty, third; shutUe hurdle re­25/a Iowa IO/2 
Won 4, Lost 2

89 Canisius** 94 lay, first, time 1:02.9; mile 20 Michigan State _ 16 
.\D OPP 
99 Holy Cross :^J: 82 relay, first, time 3:14.5. 20 ^ Northwestern 15J4 '•
24 Marquette 34 
78 Pordand .?Z..j. 64 19/; Michigan State .._ 16 ^ ••-''• 
96 Loyola .'i.'.^ 64 Drake Relays: mile relay, first, 32 Indiana 23 
20 Iowa 16 70 Butler .C^ 65 
time 3:13.1; 440-yd. hurdles, 18 Loyola .... 43 
16 Wisconsin 20 

.\ubrey Lewis, first, -time :53.7; 15 Bowling Green 48 
99 Detroit .-.S3S?88 25 / Northwestern 10 ^ 
four-mile relay, second; sprint 21 Central Michigan 38 
95 DePaul -,^^0 10 Purdue 26 .^ 
medley relay, third: shuttle 36 Michigan State 19 
76 Marquette ^ ..i* 56 22 / Indiana 13/­
hurdle relay, third; hop, step 85 DePaul 73 Indiana . State Meet: Notre 
94 Marquette 55 and jump. Jack Cote, third; Indiana Intercollegiate Touma-:
Dame, second. 

89 Miami (Ohio)*** 77 broad jump. Jack Cote,-fifth. ment: Purdue, 1st, 750; Notre -^ \ 83 Michigan State*** 85 Central Collegiate Conference Dame, 2nd, 782: Indiana, 3rd, 
Indiana State track meet: Indi­
86 Pittsbiirgh*** 85 Meet: Notre Dame, 29; West-807. 
ana, first, 110; Notre Dame, 
em Michigan, 44; Marquette, *Holiday Festival Tourney in second, 94%: Purdue, third, 
71; Drake, 95. New York 
34. 
Tennis 

I.C.A..'\..A..A. Meet, at New 
**Double Overtime Central Collegiate Conference Won 9, Lost 4
York Chy, Notre Dame, 
Meet: Kansas, first, 51; Notre ND OPP 
•**N.C.A.A. Touraev fourth. 
Dame, second, 34J/2: Mar­9 Chicago University 0 
quette, third, 24. N.C..'\..A. Meet, at East Lansing, 
Indoor Track 6 Wisconsin 2 
Notre Dame, sixth. 
10 Marshall College 0

N.C.A.A. Tournament at .Austin, 10 Kentucky University .. 0
Won 2, Lost 1 

Texas: -Aubrey Lewis, third, 220-yd. low hurdles. Time 
ND OPP 
9 Louisville University .. 0

65 39 Fencing 
7 Cincinnati University.. 2

73 Marquette 31 
Won 14, Lost 1 4 Kalamazoo 545/ : Indiana 68/= 

.ND OPP 8 Marquette 1 
Baseball 
Michigan State Relays: Bill Kcc-15 Buflfalo .: 12 2 Michigan 7 gan, 1st, 300-yd. run; Bill Won 16, Lost 10 21 Oberlin. . 6 3 Northwestern 6 Keegan, Frank Hall, .Aubrey ND OPP 20 lo^va :. . 7 2 Iowa 1 7 Lewis, Dale Vandenberg, 1st, 6 Indiana 1 17 Indiana Tech 10 8 Western Michigan 1 sprint medley relayj Bill Kee-9 Indiana 7 16 Chicago ........ 11 5 Michigan State 1 
Father George Holderith, C.S.C. 
Celebrates 25th Year As Irish Golf Coach 
Father Holderith has been coach of the Notre Dame golf team since 1933, and in those 25 years as the Irish mentor, his golf teams have won 165 matches, lost 61, and tied 11 for a win­ning percentage of .730, exclusive of ties. He is from Kokomo, Ind., and is the oldest coach from length of service at Notre Dame. Father Holderith has been instrumental in the great develop­ment of golf at Notre Dame, conduc­ing many interhall golf tournaments, from which have come many of the varsity golfers. He has also sponsored exhibitions by well-known golfers on the University's Burke Memorial Course, such as the one featuring Jackie Burke and Jimmy Demaret last year. Father, Holderith is a past president of the Association of College Golf Coaches. 
This was the 28th season of inter­collegiate golf at Notre Dame. In 1930, the first Irish linksmen went through a five-match schedule without defeat and were also undefeated in 1931. Four consecutive victories in 1932 gave them a consecutive victory skein of 17 in a row. The longest Irish winning streak is 22 consecutive dual matches from May 7, 1933 to May 11, 1935. 
In 1944, Notre Dame won the 
N.C.A.A. golf title at the famous Inverness Country Club in Toledo. Notre Dame has entered the Nationals 18 times, winning once, finishing sec­ond twice, winding up third four times, and finishing fourth twice. Last year, the Irish finished sixth. 

Individual honors have also come to men coached by Father Holderith. Win Day, 1936 captain, reached the quar­terfinals of the 1934 National Amateur. Tom Veech, 1951 captain, equaled Day's achievement in the 1950 Na­tional Amateur. Tom Sheehan, a two-time Irish captain, set a new qualifying record in winning medalist honors in the 1939 National Amateur, and Tom Matey, the 1953 Irish captain, went to the semifinals of the 1951 N.C.A.A. tourney. Charles Thum, co-captain of the 1957 team, was the South Bend City champ in 1955. 
Baseball Nine Named 
Champs of Mid-West 
The Notre Dame baseball team coached by veteran Jake Kline en­joyed one of its most successful seasons and went to the semi-finals of the Na­tional Collegiate Athletic Association tournament before being defeated by Penn State. The Irish were crowned champions of the Middle West by sur­viving a double-elimination series in which the other participants were Northwestern, Western Michigan and Alma. Prior to the district four regional playoffs, Notre Dame had a seasonal record of 14 wins and 8 defeats. Al­though they started slowly in the spring taking only 4 of 9 games, the Irish finished strong by winning 10 of their last 13 contests. 
Prominent playera on the squad in­cluded co-captain Elmer Kohorst, senior, who won Ail-American honors the past two years and was the team's leading batter. Gene Duffy, sophomore basketball star, was one of the out­standing members of the baseball team as center-fielder. Duffy ran a close second in hitting honors to Kohorst. Jim Morris, junior right-fielder, Steve Johnson, senior third-baseman, Ed Hurley, senior second-baseman, and Bob GiaiTatano, sophomore right-field­er all were heavy hitters for Kline's team. 
The powerhouse of the pitching staff was Tom • Bujnowski, senior right­hander, who had an earned nin aver­age of 1.56. The number two pitcher was Chuck Symeon, junior right­hander. Jim Carideo, senior shortstop, was a three letter man on the squad. 
Clarence "Jake" Kline is finishing his 24th season as head coach of base­ball at Notre Dame. He is also a pro­fessor of mathematics at the University. Jake won baseball monograms at Notre Dame in 1915, 1916 and 1917 and was' the captain of the team' in his senior" year. His teams have been in NCAA tournaments on two other occasions, in 1947 and 1956. Jim Gibbons, out-­standing pitcher-outfielder on Irish baseball teams from 1950-53, and a guard on the basketball squads of the same era, is serving his' first year -as assistant baseball coach. 
PAUL LILLIS, '42, ELECTED MONOGRAM CLUB PREXY 
Paul Lillis, '42, of Cleveland, Ohio, a varsity football tackle at Notre Dame from 1939 to 1941, was elected presi­dent of the National Monogram Club at a meeting held prior to reunion weekend. He succeeds Greg Rice, '39, of. River Edge, N. J., as president. The meeting, however, was conducted by secretary-treasurer Bill Earley in the absence of Rice. 
'Vice-presidents elected include Wil­liam Gorhpers, Pittsburgh, Pa.; eastern 'V-P; John Murphy, South Bend, mid­west 'V-P; 'Lancaster Smith, Dallas, Texas, southern V-P; and Jerry Cow­hig. Van Nuys, Calif., western V-P. New directors chosen were George Connor, Chicago, and Gene Mayl, Day­ton, O., both for three year terms. 
In special recognition of long service,, the club presented honorary member­ships and monogram jackets to Herb Jones, business manager of athletics; Robert Cahill, ticket manager; and Charlie Callahan, sports publicity direc-[ tor. About 75 members of the Mono­gram Club gathered for the festivities which included ^;golf outing, dinner and annual business meeting. 
Paul Lillis 

Akron 
The Akron Club celebrated Universal Notre Danie Night on April 30 at the Akron City Club. Prcs. TOM BOTZUM acted as master of ceremonies, introdudng the new ofHccrs for the coming year. 'Four Horseman' DOX MILLER u-as on hand to say a few words and to \isit ^Wth featured speaker HARRY STUHLDREHER. A fine crowd of 175 Notre Dame Alumni, wives and guests heard Stuhldreher recall Notre Dame of the past and remark on Notre Dame of the present and future. MRS. EDWARD BARCH was the lucky winner of the door prize—a football autographed by the Notre Dame team. 
Notre Dame Man of the Year Award Committee Chairman HUGH COLOPY presented the Club's award posthumously to DR. PATRICK C DORAN, '23—Mrs, Doran accepting the award for her late husband. Dr. Doran had been selected for the award before his recent untimely death. His passing was indeed a great loss not only to this entire community, but to Notre Dame as well. 
-DAN MOTZ. '54, Sco*. 

Atlanta 
ED KRAUSE was guest speaker for the Atlanta Club on Universal Notre Dame Night. \VILLIAM 
H. RICKE u-as awarded the plaque as Notre Dame Man-of-ibe-Ycar, HARRY MEHRE was toast­master and also called on Wally Butts of tlic University of Georgia and Tonto Coleman of Georgia Tech for brief talks. The club's 1937 scholarship wa*: awarded to Stephen A. ScJiar­fenberg. 
Aurora 
REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., asso­ciate director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was guest speaker at the Aurora Club's Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. Tlie new Notre Dame movie was shown to the audirnc*' aUo, 
Boston 
The annual election and bu<iine>s meeting wa> held on April 11 with an excellent turnout ol alumni. The follovvjng officers and directors were elected by the alumni present: President—BILL O'BRIEN '44. Vice-President—BILL McCORMICK '47, Treasurer—BILL DACEY '49, Secretary—DICK HVL.AND '50, Directors—HUGH BLUNT '24. JACK CONNELL '53. DICK D. KIRK '49, JOE GARGAN '53, and PHIL McCARTIN '50 were 
appointed by the incoming President, Bill O'Brien. Our congratulations to DICK HERLIHY '48 and his staff for a successful and prosperous year. One of the highlights of this past year has been the beginning of a scliolarship fund that will commence in 1960. 
There were 85 persons attending Universal Notre Dame night which was held on April 29 at the Blue Hill Country Club in Canton. ART BRADY *48 was the chairman of this annual affair with JIM ARMSTRONG and BILL WALSH as guest speakers from the University. Tlie ne%v film of Notre Dame ^vas shown and was so well liked that we have purcliased it and is a\-ailable to our iVIumni in Nc*v England. We are very pleased to announce that CHUCK PATTERSON *47 received the Man of the Year award. Chuck has aUva>*s been vcrj- active in our Club and has unseliishly devoted many hours of hard work to help strengthen and build our Club to its present position. This same interest, hard work and organizational ability have, no doubt, played an important role in 
acquiring his recent promotion to ^Vssistant to the President of the Perini Corp. Our thanks to hini and the best of luck in his new position. 
Tlte Boston Club held a reception and dinner in honor of JIM O'DEA, JR., '44, recently elected District Attorney of Middlesex County, at the Hotel Somerset on Sunday Evening, June 16. The In\*ocation was said by ^[onsignor GrifHn and Benediction by our Chaplain, Father Dono\an. An address was given by Senator John Kennedy at this dinner. NEIL FO\VXER, '47, *vas Chairman of the affair u-ith committeemen. Chuck Patterson, LOU DiGIOVANNI '49, and Dick Heriihy. JOHN MORAN was the Toastmaster. 
We are happy to announce tliat DICK McGOLD-RICK, '50, has been appointed National Sales Manager of tlie 4-Fishermen, Di\ision of Fulham Brothers, and that GEORGE SULLIVAN has Joined the law firm of White, Murphy and White in Boston. In addition, JOHN T. BURKE, '29, has been appointed as State Commissioner of Com­merce bv Governor Foster Furcolo. 
GASPER URBAN'S, '48, wife delivered a baby boy the day after Universal Notre Dame Night and LOU DiGIOV/VNNI'S wife recently gave birth to a baby girl. 
CHARLIE CROWXEY '22 again graciously of­fered his farm in Millis for the Annual Picnic Outing held on June 30. CHUCK POWERS, '45, u-as Chairman of this vcrj* popular affair. 
A director)' %vill be issued shortly to all our .-Vlumni and each year it \nll be brout;ht up-to-date and reissued. Our thanks to BOB LYNCH, '49. for all his hard work and time that he has devoted to this project. 
DICK HYLAND '50, Secy. 

Buffalo 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night was exceptional and Unprecedented last April. First, because FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, honored the club as guest speaker, and, secondly, FRANK GAGLIONE, presi­dent of the Buffalo Alumni Club, was chosen Notre Dame Man of the Year, Plaques were pre­sented to the past presidents of tlie Buffalo Alumni Club. Father Hesburgh also showed a new movie on Notre Dame, and it was well received. 
REV. S. GARDNER, C.S.C.. JOHN BOLAND, night chairman, JOHN DOERR, toastmaster, RALPH ELSE, TO.VY ROCCO. JOE WATSON, JIM CASEY and JERRY McCABE spear-headed this grand event. Upwards of two hundred people were in attendance. 
President Frank Gaglione is the proud papa of a bouncing baby boy after six not-so-bouncIng girls. Following this announcement, Frank also presented tliis ver>- ambitious schedule of coming events: Notre Dame Night at Buffalo Raceway with co-chairman, DON JACOBI, and BUS PFEIL. The annual stag outing with co-chairmen, AL KEM­NITZER and DICK KLEE. BUS PFEIL is chairman of the Golf Party first round in July, cliamptonship bout round in August. 
Probably the biggest project for the year is the Notre Dame-Army football excursion. The club is sponsoring a weekend in Netv York City, for alumni and friends of Notre Dame with Tony Rocco as cliairman. A committee is yet to be announced. 
—TONY ROCCO, Sec>-. 

Calumet Region 
FATHER JOSEPH BARRY, GS.C . \vas prindpal sp^ker at the club's UND Night meeting held at Phil Smidt's Restaurant. Col, Walter J. Rilc>­was selected as Man of the Year, Arrangements were in charge of prt^ident TOM CLIFFORD. 
Canada 
Tile newly orgaiu/ed Notre Dame Club of Canada held its first Universal Notre Dame Night at the Berkeley Hotel in Montreal on May 1, with JAMES 
E. ARMSTRONG and the new campus film "Notre Dame" as special features. 
Forty Notre Dame men, wives and families, gathered for the occasion, some coming sci'erai hundred miles. 
Tlie interest and enthusiasm of the new club, whose president is PAUL LaFRAMBOISE of Quebec, indicates continuing growth in numbers and in influence. 
E. G. "GERRY" OLWELL, JR., has been named public relations representative for the Club (he is director of advertising and merchandising for Do­minion Dairies Ltd.) and Notre Dame news will be more plentiful in Canada as a result. 
CLUB CALENDAR 

Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Shera­ton, 715 Delaware Ave., Buflfalo, 
N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at 
K. of C, 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 

CENTRAL OHIO — First Monday (night) of ever}' month, Junior Rose Room, Virginia Hotel, Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Firet \Vednesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High Street, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
CHICAGO—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m., \Vestem Society of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph, Chicago. 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 
7:00 p.m.. Sept. thni June. Erie, Pa. ' 

FORT LAUDERDALE — Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 7:30 p.m., Governor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
OKLAHOMA CITY—First Mon­day of each month, night, check McFarland's Drive-In Theatre, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA —Second Tues­day of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. Philadelphia, Pa. 
PITTSBURGH —\Veekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pitts­burgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER—Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:00 noon, 38, Powers Hotel, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 
ST. LOUIS — Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon, Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. 
WASHINGTON — Weekly lunch-con, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Wasliington, D. C. 
AKRON—Mrs. Patricli C. Doran accepted the club's 'Man of the Year' scroll awarded posthumously in Iionor Oi her Jalc husband, Dr. Doran, «ho died on March 21. Others in the photo are Harrj* Stuhldreher, guest speaker (right) and Hugh Colopy, Award chairman. 
Cedar Rapids 
FATHER GI-ENX BOARMAN, CS.C.. wa> principal spL-aki-r at the club's Uiiivt-rsal .Voire Daiac Xiglit diniicr-mctjiin!?. 
Central New York 
Thti Central Stiw York Club of Xotre Daiiu-, celebrated Universal Notre Danie niglit April 25tii, with a dinner dance at the Hotel Syracuse, Syracuse, Xew York. 
REVEREND THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C^.C. gave the principal address. Father Hesburgh gave his outlines of the qualifications for an ideal university. Father Hesburgh brought with him a new Notre Daine motion picture entitled ''High­lighLs of Notre Dame" which was shown at the affair. 
In keeping with the dual theme of lias year'a Universal Notre Dame night all past presidents of the local club were listed on the program and those present were introduced. The current presi­dent, H. PHILIP SHEAN, spoke briefly about the h!stor>' of the Holy Cross order. 
Chairman RICHxVRD GREENE of the "Man of the Year" committee presented our club's first annual award to CHARLES E. GEHER/NG ot Auburn, New York. Mr. Gehcring has for many years been a tireless worker for both the university and the local alumn! club. 
Nfusic for dinner and dancing was proWded by Dick Martin's Orchestra. 
.Approximately three hundred people attended the affair and honored guests in addition to Father Hesbursli, included FATHER aVRMODV, SJ., a representative of LeMoye College, MONSIGNOR JOSEPH B. TOOMEY, MONSIGNOR ROBERT 
L. SULLIVAN, and the FATHERS FRANK and JOHN HARRISON, all Notre Dame Alumni. Also present were Father Hesburgh*s parents and family, 
L. P. ANDREAS, Director of Athletics, S>Tacusc University and FLOYD (BEN) SCHWARTZ­W'iVLDER, head fixubutl ci»ach at Syracuse Uni\-ersity, 
JOHN H* TERRY was general chairman of the affair and did an excellent job in handling all arrancemenl.i. 
—J. GARVEY JONES, Sec>-.-Trcas. 
Central Pennsylvania 
REV. JOHS J. CA\'j\NAUGH, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was guest speaker at the Central PennsyK-ania Club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. 
Chicago 
The Universal Notre Dame night program turned out to be one of the best attended and most successful evenings the Notre Dame Club of Chicago has ever had. It was held in the Lake Shore Club on April 29th. Tlie theme of this year's meeting was a tribute to FATHER HESBURGH and the excellent work he has done for the University, Besides the Alumni present there were many leaders, business and industry, from the Chicago area gathered to take part in this tribute, among them were: 
Thomas H. Beacoui, Vice President, Tlie First Satlonal Bank of Cfiicago; Judsoa S. Saj-Tc, Presi­dent, Norge Sales Corporation; Wlliam P. Fecley, Chairman of the Board, Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Company; Byron V. Kanaley; John L. Mc­Caffrey, Chairman, International Har\csler Com­pany; Robert Sargent Shriver, Jr., Afcrchandisc Mart; Fred B. Sniie, Local Loan Company; John 
P. Kile>-, President, Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company, Chicago, Illinois; Harr>- C. Murphy, President, The Burlington Lines; Msgr. \nncent Cooke, Supenising Director, Catholic Charities, Arclidi'occse of Chicago; Rev. Comerford O'Malley, President, DePauI University; Rev. J. F. Maguire, S.J., President Loyola University; Joseph 
C. Boyce, Academic Vice President, I. I. T.; William S. Kerr, Vice President and Business 
Notre Dame 

Manager, Northwestern University; John J O'Shcughnessy; Honorable Roger J. Kiley, Ap peltate Court of Illinois; Donald OTooIe, Prea dent, Pullman Trust and Savings Bank; Alfred C Stepan, Jr., President, Stepan' Chemical Company Edmund A. Stephan; W. A. Wecker, President .Marquette Cement Manufacturing Company; £. R Moore, President, E. R. Moore Company; 3n< Russet J. Lcander, Chicago Show Printing Company 
FATHER HESBURGH also gave a very enlighten ing talk on **Atoms for Peace'' and on the lighte: -side Bill Veeck, former General Manager of th< Cleveland Indians and of the St. Louis Brown gave a humorous talk on "The Funny Busines: of Baseball Management." The following officer and members of the Board of Governors also in­'Stalled at this meeting- are: 
President—FR.ANCIS J. MILLIGAN, JR., Firsi Vice President—JOHN F. MORLEY, Second Vici President — PHILIP J. FACCENDA, Honorary President—^VILLIAM G. FERSTEL, Secretary ­KENNETH G. ENRIGHT, JR., Treasurer ­JAMES P. DOYLE. 
Board of Governors: One year term—JAMES L. FERSTEL, CYRUS F. FREIDHEIM, ROBERT GEIMAN, WILLUM M. HICKEY, DONALD J, HOGxVN, FRED A. JOYCE, JR., WILLIAM 
J. KENNEDY, JAAfES C. O'KEEFE, ROB­ERT E.\LMETT ^VRIGHT. Two year terra 
-
 >nLLIAM S. ALLEN, JAMES F. CON­WAV, JR., JAMES D. HAGGERTV, ^VALTER 

A.
 KIOLBASA, FRANK G. MATAVASKY. HIGH 

E.
 MULLIGAN, ROGER B. WHITE. Three year term—THO.\L\S P. BROGAN, JEROME A. FIL\ZEL. JAMES T. GALLAGHER, ED^VIN A. GAUSSELIN, DANIEL HARDIN. JOSEPH L. PAGLIARI, ROBERT K, WIL.MOUTH. 


—KENNETH G. ENRIGHT, JR., Secy. 

Cincinnati 
At the Uni\-crsal Notre Dame Night Dinner .Meeting held at the Vernon Manor Hotel, ROBERT 
J. LEONARD, '41, was selected as the Notre Dame "Man-Of-TIie-Year** and presented with a scroll. The father of six children, he is engaged in the insurance business and has for many years actively worked on \"arious projects sponsored by the Club. 
STEPHFJ»f HEEKIN. Secy. 

Cleveland 
Several members recently enjoyed a dinner \*Isit with FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH and JOHN MacCAULEY of the Foundation. A previe%v of the motion picture Notre Dame, ivas vieu-ed by those present. This same impressive movie was-shown at Universal Notre Dame night, when FATHER MENDEZ addressed the group. New club officers for the year are: DENNY O'NEILL, *5I, President; FRED FREIND, '50, Vice President; BILL BEARGIE, *52, Treasurer; and TOM McHALE, Secretary. 
The first event of the summer was the picnic held at the Rohr farm on June I5th. Beginning in June, a First Friday dub was organized. After attendance at the noon Mass at the Cathedral, members of the club meet at Pat Joyce's for lunch. 
The St. Louis Club will be gaining a good worker since BILL EGGERS has been transferred there as a sales representative for Lamson & Sessions. The Eggers have had an addition with the arrival of a baby girl; the JOHN MENDEN­HALLS have been similarly blessed. KEN SNYDER ieh the bachelor ranks and was married at St. Annes Church on May I8lh. AL GRISANTI is a candidate for municipal judge. 
—TOM McHALE, Seo-. 

Columbus 
On April 30 friends and alumni gathered at Llonka's and celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night. Ne^v officers for the coming year were installed: President, JOHN COX, *53; VTcc-Ptesi­dcnt. LARRY STE^IBER, *52; Secretary. FRANCIS 
T. MCDONALD , *37; Treasurer, RAY KREBER, '54; Trustee. BOB POISSON. FATHER ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C. gave an inspiring talk, and then the Man of the Year Award was given to one of the club's most deserving persons, BOB ECHEN­RODE, whose faithful service and fine example made him an outstanding candidate for this award. 
The new officers are planning many interesting meetings for the coming year, and hope they will have the full cooperation of the other members of this fine club in order to carry on the fine work of their predecessors. 
—F. T. MCDONALD, Secy. 
Alumnus, August-September^ 1957 31 

BUFFALO—Frank Gaglione (right) was the club's 'Man of the Year.' Others in photo are Father Hesburgh, principal speaker, and Ralph Else, immediate past president. 
Dallas 
Tlie annual banquet celebrating Universal Xotrc 
Dame Night was held at the Glen Lakes Country* 
Club Thursday evening, April 25th. It was well 
attended by Notre Dame Club members and friends. 
Tlie new president, H. F. TEHxVN, was introduced, 
followed by short talks from REV. JOHN LANE, 
C.S.C., official representative of the University; 
past president. JAKE REICHENSTEIN; a few 
songs from John Boles, famed movie actor of the 
past and a vcr>- cnlertaining skit by Billy Tliomp­
son, who played several character parts including 
the "old timer" on the Fibber Magec & ^folly 
show. This particular celebration was dedicated to 
the past presidents of the club who have been 
instrumental in organizing and developing tnanv 
social actintics.. ARTHUR SIMPSON presented a 
plaque for "Man of the Year" to ARTHUR 
HUGHES, prominent Catholic la>-man. Chairman 
of tlic program was WIL KIRK. The other new 
officers for tlie year are: First Vice President, 
MIKE DORAN; Second Vice President, PETE 
W.\CKS; Secretan.-, HE-VRY NEUHOFF, and 
Treasurer. DAVE LA JOIE. 
Dayton 
Wth REV. JOHN J. aVVANAUGH, CS.C. as its principal speaker, the Dayton Club put on its finest affair. Over 100 persons attended the Uni­versal N. D. Night celebration. It was tlic largest number that has ever been present at any of its dinners. One of our cuests w-as FATHER FRANK GARTLAND, CS.C. (editor of Tlic Catholic Boy). He was in Dayton to \Tsit Chaminade High Sdiool 
.for Catholic Education Day. 
Father Ca\'anaugh brought with him from the University the new campus color film. Tliis was show-n after the dinner. It was certainly well received by all. 
Tlic "Man of The Year," award was presented to tlie outgoing president. FRANK E. McBRIDE, JR. 
ED (RED) SHEA who introduced Father Cava­naugh was a classmate of Father's. Tlie Dayton Club presented Father C3\-anaugh with a check for $300.00 for the X. D. Foundation. 
Tlic new officer? were announced at the dinner. The new president is to be WILLIAM W. Mac-MILLAN; Vice President—PAUL D. LAM.MERS; Secretar>—TOM LANDGREN; Treasurer—ANDY AMAN, (He was re-elected for an unprecedented fifth term.) 
Tlie new board members are as follows: LEO J. CONDRON—Past President and EDWARD C. STEINER—Past President. 
Tlie entire celcliration was a real success, and the Dayiou Club was indeed vcr>- proud to have the 
former President of Notre Dame as its speaker. 
MRS. THELMA BOSCO and MRS. AVILLIAM 
HENKE, JR., (co^airmen) of the auxiliary are 
working on plans this summer for a baseball 
excursion to Crosley Field for a Cincinnati Reds 
gamt. They also have established a date for the 
holiday dance in December (Dec. 28). 
A new member just recently arrived in Dayton. 
He has been stationed in England for the past 
se\-eral years. He graduated in 1951. He is CAPT. 
THOMAS J. REAGAN, and he is now at ^Vright 
Patterson Air Force Base. Capt. Reagan and his 
wife are residing in Fairbom, Oliio, at 715 Winston 
Drive 
Dearborn 
At our elections in March, GEIU^LD F. GASS 
was elected President, DAVID L. DOL.\N was 
re-elected to his second term as Vice President and 
JOHN E. COURTNEY re-elected Secretary-
Treasurer. 
New directors elected arc JOE BYRNE, GEORGE TOBIN and L/\RRY DOLAN. Other directors are GEORGE BALL, CLEM CONSTANTINE, DICK KING. JIM KING, BOB SULLIVAN and TOM TUCKER. 
President Gass has a very solid program planned 
for the year. May 26, we opened our social year 
with our 8th Annual Communion Breakfast. Chair­
men Gerr>- Gass, Larr>* Dolan and Clem Constan­
tinc were ver>* fortunate to obtain Bishop Charles 
L. Nelligan, D.D. of iVssumption University as guest speaker. He is frequently referred to as "the Bishop Sheen of Canada." TIic Communion Mass was held at St. Bernadctte*s Church with tlie break­fast at tlic Dearborn Inn. Clem Constantinc, our retiring president, was presented with a Past President's Plaque by the Club. We all appreciate the job Clem did last year. Socially and financially 1955 goes in the record as a banner year for the Notre Dame Club of Dearborn. 
There was a Family Picnic in June. JOE BYRNE was chairman assisted by JOHN W. COURTN'EY, '25 and JOHN FISH, *52. 
The girls took over in July presenting the Mid­stunmer Dance and Garden Party. MRS. GERRY GASS was chairman assisted by the wives of the officers and directors. 
TOM DORE M9 is making arrangements for our fourth annual Golf Outing in September at the Dearborn Countrv' Club. His able assistants are 

CALUMET REGION—The Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region presented its "Man of the Year" award to Colonel Walter J. Riley, East Chicago, Ind., banker, industrialist and philanthropist, at a Universal Notre Dame Night dinner at Phil Smidt's restaurant in WTiiting. Thomas H. Clififord, Jr., right, of Gary, the club president, is shown making the presentation to Col. Riley. At the left is Rev. Joseph Bany, C.S.C., of Notre Dame, who was the principal speaker. 
CENTRAL NEW YORK—Guests at head table on UND Night were, left to right: Richard D. Greene, Chairman of Notre Dame Man of the Year Award Committee; Rev. John G. Harrison; Mrs. Richard D. Greene; Rev. J. E. Carmody, S.J., representing Rev. Robert Gruen, S.J., president of Lemoyne College; Mrs. H. Philip Shean; Rt. Rev. Joseph B. Toomey, '26; Rev. Theodore M. Hesbuigh, C.S.C; John 
H. Terr)-, toastinastcr; Msgr. Robert G. Sullivan; H. Philip Shean, club president; Mrs. John H. Terry; Rev. Frank J. Harrison; Miss Margaret Lane; and Richard Dunlay, president of the Notre Dame Student Club. 
JIM KING, '50 and JOHN PR.\WDZIK, '46. 
The fall and winter months arc complete ^vitll Brcwer>* Parlv, Football Rallies, Tri-Universitv Dance (N.D.-MSU-U. of -M.), Football Trip, Dinner Dance, Stag Dinner and Day of Recollection. 
—JOHN E. COURTNEY, Secj-. 
Delaware 
On April 23, 1957 the First Annual Universal 
Xotrc Dame Night at Delaware was held with 
over 53 ^Vluinni, their friends and the present stu­
dents from this immediate area now in attendance 
at tlic University. 
The wife of CHr\RLES HxVNKS won tlie coveted 
Mrs. Delaware contest award and Mr. and Mrs. 
Hanks were given an expense paid trip to the 
contest finals in Miami Beach. 
JOE DIPINTO was recently transferred to the 
Wilmington, plant area of £. I. duPont from 
Savanaugli River. TOM FIELD is pursuing his 
higher education at O.vford, England. 
—ALEX PETRILLO, Sco*. 
Denver 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the Columbine Countr>* Club, Littleton, Colorado on May 1st. 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice president of Notre Dame was the keynote speaker. /Vrchbibhop Urban J. Vchr, Very Rev. Richard F. Ryan, president of Regis College, Gov­ernor Stephen L. McNIcliols and ^frs. McNicIiols and George Kelly, administrative assistant, repre­senting Mayor Will F. Nicholson attended this affair. 
Some 300 Club members, wives, parents of stu­dents at Notre Danic and friends of Notre Dame were present. 

Chairman of the committee handling UND night arrangements were O. L. HOUGH, Chairman, E.MMETT BARTON, JAMES P. SHEEHAN, JAMES F. HANLON, RAV HUMBLE, aVRL EIBERGER, ROBERT STAPP and GLENN F. MENHENNETT. 
The Denver Notre Dame Club was host to the Notre Dame Glee Club at the "Tiffin" Writer's Manor on April 17th. Some 38 members of the Glee Club and the Director Dr. Pedtke enjoyed a broiled steak dinner. They were enroute to Las Vegas, Nevada. The Glee Club gave a concert in the Oscar Malo Hall for the Priests and Nuns of the metropolitan area of Denver m the after­noon. The Glee Club sang at the evening services at the Immaculate Conception Cathedral, Ard»­bishop Urban J. Vehr. officiated. ARTHUR C. GREGORY club president and THO.\L\S J. GAR­G^\N were the committee handling this club event. 
New club officers installed on Universal Notre Dame Night May 1, 1957 by .\rthur C. Gregorx­outgoing president were: 
President—GLENN F. MENHENNETT, Vice Prcsi­dent—JA.MES P. SHEEHAN, Treasurer—R^\Y.MOND 
S. RISTOW, Secretarv—LEON ARCHER. Board of Directors—JrV.MES E. MONAGH^VN, M.D„ WIL­LIAM D. MAHONEY, .VNTOX POJAL-VN, JR., JOHN D. RYAN. 
—THOMAS J. GARG.VN 

Des Moines 
On Saturday evening, April 27, 1957. in the attractive Wedgewood Room of the Hotel Fort Des Moines, the Notre Dame .-Uumni Club of Des Moines, Iowa, held its first Universal Notre Dame Night. Over one hundred .Alumni, students, par­ents of students, and friends of Notre Dame, at­tended this memorable dinner to honor one of Des Moines* most outstanding Catholic laymen, ARTHUR T. GORMLEY, Vice President and Business Manner of the Dcs Moines Register and Tribune, whose unselfish devotion to dvic affairs^ notably his contributions of time and energy to Mercy Ho^ipital proj'ccts, qualified him for. "Tlic-Outstanding Man of the Year .Au-ard." 
Tlie evening was clima.xed with an address by the REVEREND EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., E.xecutive Vice President of the University, who was a guest of the Club for that weekend. A newly produced film on the University, which Father Joyce brought »vith him, was viewed with enthusiasm and approval by guests at the dinner. 
Among the notable individuals who attended this auspldous dinner were the RIGHT REVEREND MONSIGNOR E. V. LYONS, Vicar General of the Diocese of Des Moines; ALEC AVILSON, the University track coach and this year's referee of 
DEARBORN—Photo on left: Those at head table during club's observance of 8th Annual Communion Breakfast arc Rev. H. Saulino, chaplain; Vice-President Larry Dolan; and Bishop Charles L. Nelligan, guest speaker. Photo on right; Clem Constantine (right) re­ceiving past president plaque from President Jerry Gass. 
DAYTON—Photo on left: Frank McBride, president, giving Father John J. Cavanaugh, C^.C, guest speaker, the club's contribution of $500 for the University. Photo on right: new officers include (left to right) Tom Landgrew, secretary; William MacMillan, president; and Paul Lammers, vice-president. Treasurer Andy Aman was out of the city when picture was taken. 
the Drake Rclaj-s; ROBERT ROACH, Notre Dame Fotindation Governor for the State of lows; club officers, R. .\1. a\NNON, President; A. T. Mc-CORMACK, Wee I'lesidcnt; T. J. NOLi\N, JR., Secretarj-Treasurcr; CHARLES ar\LLv\Hi\N, and members of the Notre Dame Track Team who had participated in the Drake Relay's. 
Other Alumni present were: JOSEPH E. WHALEN', ROBERT TIERNAN, Toastmaster for the evenins. RICHARD T. ARKWRIGHT, DON 
A. BOSS, JOSEPH E. CASEY, LESLIE W. DILL­MAN, JAMES M. DLV.\E.N% JOHN E. DREY, PAUL C. EIDE, FRANCIS E. FERGUS, DANIEL E. H,\.NNAN, JR., HAROLD P. KLEI.N, HAROLD NEU, LENIH..i.V L. L,\LLY, FRED NESBIT, BERNARD HOUSTON, NICHOLAS l^VMBERTO, GEORGE J. PFL.V;Z, DR. EDWARD R. POS­NER, JR., KENNETH J. REXSTREW, J.AMES 
C. Sft\W, JOHN T. STARK, F. M. WONDER­
LIN, and JOHN SUEE.\'Ey. —TOM NOL.\N, Seo-.-Treas. 
Detroit 
On April 24, 1957, thu Noire Dame Clul) of Detroit held its annua] Unlvrrsal Xotrc Dante Xight at the Latin Qiiartrr. Chairman nf tliis 
aclivitv. which was attended bv 523 peuplc, wa.­
JOHN .VXHUT, '44, who did a fine job. 
FATHER JOHN OWANAUGH, Foundation Di­rector, was the principal speaker^ and Willis Hall, Secrctar>'-A[anagcr of the Board of Commerce, was toastmaster. 
The Notre Daine Man of the Year award was 
presented to VIRGIL M. EXNER, Director of 
Styling, Chrvslcr Corporation, by JLM BYRNE, '43, 
outgoing Notre Dame Club president of Detroit. 
The new officers are: president, ED GAGE; first vice president, JOSEPH Cf\REY; second vice presi­dent, D.\N BR.\DLEY; secretary, LOU CO.VROY; and treasurer, ERNEST CARGARO. The pro­gram during the fall and winter will consist of a football kickoir affair in September; train trips to the Naw, Michigan State and Iowa football games; Comminiioa Breakfast in December; a C/iristnias dance; a retreat at Manresa; and the annual UND Night meeting next spring. .\lso. President Gape has indicated that it is his hope to improve relations with the student campus club at Notre Dame and to assist the University through programs of scholarships and Foundation aid, 
—LOU CONROY, Sec>-. 

Eastern Indiana 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Eastern Indiana ob­served Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner and program at the home of Muncie Council, No. 560, Knights of Columpus, April 29. 
OfKcers elected for 1957-38 were: ED DIXON, .Muncie, president; WILLIAM CRO.NIN, SR., Hartford Citv, vice president; RICH,\RD A. GREENE, .Muncie, secretar>-, and JOHN m-NES. Muncie, treasurer. 
Members and guests attending were: JOHN .\L\RHOEFER, president in 1936-37: REV. JAMES LEAH, assistant pastor of St. Mar>-'s Church; REV. JOSEPH GR.\CE, assistant pastor of St. Laurence Church; JACK HY.NES, BILL CRO.VIN, JR., THOMAS A. CANNON, J.\.MES CAREY, RODNEY TETR,\ULT, ED DIXO.V, CHARLES 
F. VOGT, HOWARD R. DeVAULT, .MARIO PIERONI, JOHN S. KIEFER, JAMES &\RNES, SR., JA.NfES CAR.VES, JR., W. F. CR.AIC, FRED 
E. WATSON, NORBERT W. HART, TOM RY.,VN, 
CHICAGO—Guests at Universal Notre Dame Night included, from left to right: John F. Morley, first vice-president; Fred A. Joyce, Jr., chairman, public relations committee; Philip J. Faccenda, second vice-president; James T. Doyle, treasurer; William G. Ferstel, honorary-president; Bill Veeck, special speaker; Father Hesburgh, principal sp^ker; Robert Enmiett Wright, retiring president; Joseph E. Aferrion, 'Man of the Year'; and Francis J. MiHigan, Jr., president. 
DELAWARE—Officers installed on Universal Notre Dame Night included, left to right: Charles Wolfe, Jr., president; John McVeigh, vice-president; Harry Miller, selected as 'Man of the Year' for 1937; and Alex Pctrillo, secretary-treasurer. 
KE.\XETH F. .MEYERS, JOE PORTER, JOH.V 
W. SMITH, W. S. .\fcDONALD, TOM H^TCES, JR., RICHARD A. GREENE, BILL CRONIN, SR., H,\RRY B. HART, THOMAS ADAMS and JAMES 
W. HALLIGAN. 
TIic program included the showing of two films, one "HighliBhts of the 193G Football Season," and one on the life and activities at Notre Dame. 
—DICK GREENE. Seo'. 
Eastern Illinois 
The Notre Daiiie Club of Eastern Illinois nict on Monday, April 27, I9J7 at Danville, Illinois for its aniKtal banquet to honor Vnhcrsal Xotrc Danic Night and approximately thirty-five alumni, their wives and students attended. 
Highlislit of the evening was the presentation of a scroll of honor to JOHN A. YOUNG, '34, as the club's "Notre Dame Man of the Year 1956." Tlic presentation was made by ROBERT MORRIS, '49, retiring club president. 
New officers of the club were elected as follows: President, DONALD FIGEL, '42; Vice President, LESTER FAHEY, '42; Treasurer, ROBERT WICKHAM, '54, and Secretary, ERNEST F. SEDLMAYR, '46. Retiring officers arc: ROBERT MORRIS, '49 as President, DONALD FIGER. *42 as Vice President. R:\LPH DALTON, '34 as Treasurer, and ROBERT WICKHAM. *54 as Secre­tar>-. The REVEREND C. B. MOTSETT, *33, is the club's Chaplain. 
Plans were announced for the 1957 bus trip to the Notre Dame-Purduc football game on September 25, 1957. Don Figel also presented the Rev. C. B. Afotsctt «"ith a contribution toward the Schlarman High School Gym Fund and another contribution was set aside for the Notre Dame Alumni Fund. 
The e»en(ng's actiiilic5 were concluded whh a shoeing of a film of the N^tre Dame football season of 1956 by PAUL SHEBBY, coach of the Schlarman High School football and basketball teams. 
—E. F. SEDL.\fAYR, '46, Secy. 
Elkhart 
;\ssistant footbal coacii BERNIE WITUCKI wa* the club's principal speaker at llic Universal Xotre Dame Xijilil diiinor on April 29. 
El Paso 
The Universal Notre Daiuc Night meeting fea­tured FATHER RICHARD GRLMM, C.S.C., as guest speaker from the campus. About 30 members and their gucsis were present for the dinner. GORMAN BROCK, president. W.-K In charge of ihe meetimr. 
Evansville 
The Notre Dame Club of Evaiisville observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a buffet supper at the Sterling Rath»kellar. Mr. and Mrs. BOB Lf\MEY prepared an unusually fine menu, as tbey have done for so many Notre Dame Nights in the past. Their untiring efforts to make this annual obser^-ance a successful and pleasant evenltig are worthy of special comment and deserve the gra­titude of the entire membership. 
The principal business of the evening was the presentation of the Notre Dame "Man of the Year Award." The selection for this year was FRjVNCIS 
L. (MIKE) L.\YDEN, *3G. the presentation being made by ED KEMPF. Mike was certainly most deserving of his designation as man of the year because of his outstanding civic and charitable work and his leadership and interest in community affairs. Every alumnus is proud of the achieve­ments of a fellow Notre Dame man. and we in Evansvillc arc extremely proud to be so closely associated with Mike. 
Tlie officers for the forthcoming year were elected at the business meeting which preceded the presentation of the Man of the Year Award. The officers elected for the 1957-58 term are: 
ED KE.MFF, '49, President; JOE TEMBORIUS, 
'50, Vice President; GENE JOHNSON, '51, Secre­tary-Treasurer. —R. E. JOHNSON, Secy.-Treas. 
Fairfield County 
A dinner-dance at the Hotel Bamum in Bridge* port made the 34th annual Universal Notre Dome Night one to be remembered ior local club members. The evening was highlighted by our guest speaker, the congenial REV. GEORGE S. DiPRIZIO, C^.C., Provincial, Holy Cross Fathers, Eastern Prov-ince. 
Toostmastcr JOSEPH McNAMARA, '29, called attention to the individual accomplishments of JUDGE JAMES MURPHY, recently appointed to the highest judicial post in Connecticut and FRANK McGEE, presently serving as a member of the Nferritt Parkway Commission. 
JIM ARMSTRONG then brought us all down memory' lane with the new color film "Notre Dame." Dancing and socializing followed, bringing the evening to a successful close. 
For the benefit of alumni tvho have been unable to attend recent club activities we wotdd like to announce that the official club name has been changed from the Notre Dame Club of Southwest Connecticut to the Notre Dame Club of FaJrfield County. 
A family outing %vas held in June. Horshoc and volley ball tournaments were featured, followed by hot beef sandwiclies, fresh com and potatoes baked over an open fire. It was held at Dr. Vincent Gorman's "grove." 
Flint 
On May 7th the Notre Dame Club of Flint staged its UmVersal Notre Dame Night featuring the Man of the Year Award. 
The evening began with an informal gathering and cocktails served on the mezzanine of the Durant Hotel to 275 people. After a huge, delicious meal and a few introductions by toostmastcr Waldo .McNaught (Marquette graduate), RAY KELLY, our club president, awarded .-\nthony G. De-Lorenzo, Vice President of General Motors in cliarge of Public Relations, the honor of Flint's "Notre Dame Man of the Year." The evening was further enlightened by a short talk on "The University's Problems" by REVEREND EDMUND 
P. JOYCE, CS.C. The newest color film of the compos u'os sho(vn as an appropriate close for the evening. 
Chairman for this event was J.AMES J. SHERRY, JR. Publicity, decorations, and ticket sales were assisted by WILLU.M XHNARDO and PAUL HUGHES. The entire club membership along with our subway Alumni helped the ticket committee immensely. 
—VICTOR E. GEORGE, Secy.-Treas. 
Fort Wayne 
Tlie MOST REV. LEO A. PURSLEY. Bishop of 
Ft. Wav-ne and REV. ED.MUND P. JOYCE, CS.a , 
executive vice president oi the University, were 
the principal speakers at the club's UND Night 
meeting on April 24. The affair was held at the 
Hotel Keenan and arrangements were in charge of 
CLIFFORD B. WARD, chairman. 
Tlie first annual Golf Festival was held on May 27 at the Elks Country Club. Guest speakers were basketball coach JOHN JORDAN and Tribune sports editor Joe Doyle. DICK ROSENTHAL was chairman of the event assisted by TOM O'REILLY, president. TO.\f LOG^IN' made the "headlines" with a hole in one of the 8th hole following a 240-yard drive. 
Fox River Valley 
At our obser\*ance of Universal Notre Dame 
-Night wc viewed with pleasure the new techni­
color movie forwarded to us by the University. 
The officers elected for the forthcoming two vears are as follows: 
President—PATRICK F, COUGHLIN, '50; Vice President—KARL LANGLOIS, '39,* Secretary­Treasurer—JOHN L. CHRISTM^VN, '42. 
We would appreciate hearing from any Alumni 
who have moved in the area of Appleton, Neenah. 
.\fenasha, or Kaukauna. 
—PATRICK F. COUGHLIN, Pres. 
Grand Rapids 
HARRY STUHLDREHER was guest speaker of the Grand Rapids Notre Dame Club at Its annual Universal N. D. Night banquet held In the Rowe Hotel. 

Green Bay 
The Notre Dame Aliimiu Club ol Gtccu Bay Iiad 
their Universal Notre Dame Niglit celebration 
Thursday, May 2, 1957, at tlie lieaumoni Hold. 
Over 150 members and their fricndi made this 
event a ve^^• successful gct-toselher. 
Guc5t speakers included AH-American Quarter­
back, PAUL HORNU'NG and team captain, 
JiVMES MORSE. Hornung will play for the 
Packers in 1957. 
President, JACK VAIXISI, presented a plaque 
to JULIUS L. TUCKER, prominent South Bend 
business man, \vhLTei)y he was made an honorary" 
member of the Green Bay Chapter. 
The highlight of the evening was the presentation 
of the "Man of the Year Award" to HAROLD 
LONDO, Class of '24. 
The newly elected officers are JOSEPH NEU­
FELD, President; Vice IVesidcnt. WALLY CHRIST­
M^\X and TOM .MURPHY, Secret a n.-Treasurer. 
Harrisburg 
FATHER JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., wa> the gucit ^pcaker on UND Night, and also showed Uic new campus movie. The invocation was given by REV. FILVNCIS A. KIRCHNER, club chap­lain; E. R. ECKENRODE, JR. outlined the Foot­ball and Scholarship Awards among the Catholic high schools of the Harrisburg Diocese whicli re­tiring president JOHN W. DAVIS inaugurated as a club project the past year; JOHN SINKOVITZ, .Athletic Coach at York Catholic High School, m.ide the job of toastmaster look easv, and the benedic­tion was offered by REV. WALTER H. SHULL, Principal of Harrisburg Catholic High School. 
Tlie affair was cltaircd by DON MEEK, our new president, who invited the five Catholic high scliool principals in our area as guests of the club. 
The new officers arc: President. DON R. MEEK; Vice Presidents — (HarrUburg) RICHARD D. CROWLEY. (Lancaster) DR. ALBERT J. SCHREDER, (York) THO.MAS F. CVRFAGNO; Secretary-, ROLAND H. BERGER; Treasurer, E. R. ECKENRODE, JR. 
—BOB GRAHAM. 
Hawaii 
- The University of Notre Dame Club of Hawaii gathered together on the evening of .April 29, 1957 

GRAND RAPIDS—Club president Charles Duffy addresses alumni and i^uests on Universal Notre Dame Night. Others in the photo arc, left to right: Father Van Wolvlcar, Mrs. Duffy, Joe Dceb and Harr>- Stuhldrchcr, principal speaker. The club contributed $300 to the new Moreau Scniinar>- Fund. 
to coninietnoraie the "Universal Notre Dame Night" at the Fort Shafter Officers Club. 
The principal speaker of the evening was .MONSIGNOR ROBERT J. QUINN, Naval Chaplain stationed at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. Sup­plementing the evening's program. NEIL VASCON­CELLOS '53 gave his views of life at Notre Dame with the Holy Cross Fathers. 
Newlv installed officers for the forthcoming year arc President, HARRY MEDEIROS, '53; Vice President, WALTER TAGAWA, '52;, Secreiar.-. HARVEY LUNG, *53; Treasurer, RICHARD LEONG, '54. 
—HAR\'EY LUNG, '53, SCQ-. 

Hiawathaland 
.-Vlumni and guests enjoyed the annual Universal Notre Dame Night meeting whicli featured the new campus movie in color and sound. .About thirty people were present for the occasion. 
Houston 
REV. ED.\1U.\D 1>. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice president of Notre Dame, u'as guest speaker for the Houston area observance of Universal Notre Dame Xiglit, .April 30. 
Some 200 members of tbc Xotrc Datnc Club of 

DES MOINES—UND Night gutsts included, left to right: A. T. McCormack, Club Vice President; J. E. M'halcn, national Fund Vice-Pres­ident of the Notre Dame Alumni Association; Father Joyce, principal speaker; R. M. Cannon, Club President; R. J. Tiernan, toastmaster; Monsignor E. V. Lyons, Vicar General Diocese of Des Moines; .Alec ^Vilson, N.D. track coach; T. J. Nolan, Jr., Club Secretary-Treasurer; and Robert Roach, Foundation Governor for State of Iowa. 
DETROIT—"Sew ofHccrs arc from left to right (seated): Joseph Carey, first vice-president; Edward A. Gage, president; and Dan F. 
Bradley, second Wcc-presidcnt. 
Hou-stnii, its ladies au\illnr>' ^tui guests attended the animal dinner at River Oaks Coiintr>- Club. LEO E. LINBECK, JR., was in charge of rcser\'a­tions for the event. 
Idaho 
FATHER ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C., was the principal speaker at the club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. He aUo showed the ncw niovic entitled, "Notre Dame." 
Idaho Falls 
Father Hope was guest speaker on UND Night and also showed the new movie, "Notre Dame.** Alumni present were: 
Mr. and Mrs. Leo McKilllp, Mr. and Mrs. R. \V. Bauchman, Mr. and Mrs. John Van Hoomisscn. Mr. and Mrs. J. Curtis Hairc, Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Brady, .Mr. and -Mrs. J. Robb Brady, Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Rahe, Mr. Lawrence J. Harrison, Mr. and Mrs. W, W. Deist, Mr. and Mrs. Bruce Markham, Nfr. and Mrs. John Zicbartli, Mr. and Mrs. D. V. Hagcnbarth, Mr. and Mrs. W. D. Baucluuan. 
Other guests were: Rev. J. A. Jentges, ^[r, and ^r^s. C. T. Neville, Mr. and Mrs. ^r. J, Donohoc, Jr., Mrs. J. R. Moore. Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Cailan. 
—JIM BR.\DY 
Indianapolis 
More than 225 persons—members of the Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis, their wi%-es and 

 Standing: Lou Conroy (left), sccretarj-; and Ernest J. Gargaro, treasurer. 
guests—attended the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner meeting in Indianapolis, held this vear at the Athenaeum. 
Professor JA.MES A. REYNIERS of Lobund In­stitute gave the main address, explaining the im­poriant work the germ-free lal) is doing. Members also enjoyed seeing the new color moWc, *'Notrc Dame," ^vhicli was shou-n later over \VFMB-T\'' in color. 
DONALD A. I'OTTER, '43 was the master of ceremonies at the dinner which honored past prcsi* dents of the cinb. They received certificates of appreciation as the club's "men of the year." 

.Another speaker was PHILLIP L. BA\T, nuiyor of Indianapolis. 
The affair was cliairmaned by EUGENE WITCH­GKR. and was the last function under the direction of PRESIDENT JA.MES E. ROa\P, JR., '39. -' 
Jim turned over the reins to JOSEPH NL Mc-N.-\MAR.-\, *47, whose election was announced dur­ing the dinner. Other new officers are JUDGE JOHN .M. RY.VN, '41, vice president; JOSEPH S. HERRINGTON, '50, sccrctarv, and RICHARD K. OWENS, '42. treasurer. JACK ELDER, '30, and HARRY K. ENGEL, '40. were elected directors. 
—JOE HERRINGTO.V, Sec>-. 

Jackson 
New ofHccrs arc as follows: LES U'ISD.A, presi­dent; D.-WID DALY, wee president; L\'MAX HILL, secrctar\-: and JOHN DesNOYER, treasurer. FATHER THO.MAS O'DONNELL, C.S.C., was guest speaker at the club's UND Night meeting held In the Hotel Hayes. Warden William H. Ban­nan of Southern Michigan Prison was given the club's outstanding Man-of-the-Year a^%'ard. J^UfES MORTELL introduced the guest speaker and the honor award was presented by JOHN LINDBERG. The banquet and program were arranged by Wisda, ED aVRRINGER, Daly, HiII, WILLLVM DOT­TERWEICH, JUSTIN TO.MPKLVS, ED COL­BERT, DcsNoyer and Lindberg. 
Recently the club contributed an unrestricted gift of $250 to the Notre Darac Alumni Fund. 
Joiiet 
RE\'. ALFRED MEXDEZ, C^.C, was prindpal speaker at the Jolict Club's Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. Tlie program was in charge ot DOMINIC BOETTO, president. 
Kalamaioo 
The new officers for the Kalamazoo Club are: President, ROBERT SHIELDS; Prcs. Elect, VICTOR KIM.MEL; Sccretarv, WILLIAM CR.\N­DELL; Treasurer, GIL GAUDIE. 
r\ssistant Law Dean John Brodcrick was guest speaker at the club's UND Night dinner. —JOHN PRIHODA, Reu'ring Secy. 
Kankakee Valley 
On March 24, we brought to Kankakee the Notre Dame Glee Club, and tliey sang before some 900 people in the Kankakee High School audi­torium. From this venture we cleared $750.00. After the concert the officers of the Kankakee 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1957 37 
INDIANAPOLIS—Past Presidents were honored on Universal Notre Danic Night. Seated: J. Albert Smith, N. J. Connor, Williani H. Kriei;, Robert E. Kirby, Fred h, Mahaffcy, John R. Welch, Thomas Jones, Harrj- Scott. Standint;: James E. Rocap, Jr., John C. O'Con­nor, Patrick J. Fisher, Thomas M. Fitzgerald, Jr., Joseph Gillespie, Edgar C. McNamara, Thomas Umphrey, Joseph H. Argus. 
Vallty Notre Danu- Club luld a ncepiion (or ihu Glee Club. On May 4, Univen^al Noire Danic Night was held at the Kankakee Countr>- Club. Our guest speaker, FATHER CAVANAUGH, more tlian thrilled the 70 people present. Tlic program began with a cocktail hour in which Father Cavanaugh was introduced to the members and guests and their wives. As gureis wc had the Mayor and Mrs. Madison, Mr. and Mrs. Ed Shipley, editor of the Kankakee Daily Journal and heads of in­dustry in our area. Of course the highlight of the evening was the presentation of the "Notre Dame Man of the Year" award. Tliis was our first presentation and we fell honored to be able to give this awaid to Mr. ROMY H.\MMES, xvho has done so much for Kankakee and Notre Dame. Tlic next order of business was the installation of next vears oflicere: President. MARVIN O. HUOT; Vice 'President, A. E. (DUFF) KERGER, JR.; Secretar^^ KENNETH BERGERON, and Trca.'^urer. 
J. EARL JOHNSON. The program was concluded with tinr ncwi«,t pic­ture on Notre Dame life. 
President Maynaid Bis5onnettc presented Father Ca\-anaugh with a S500.00 check to be used towards a scholarship for some hoy from the Kankakee Vallev area. 
—.\I. O. HUOT, Pres. 
Kansas City 
The activities of the Notre Dame Club of Kan>.i> City jeachcd the highlight of the year when on .April 22, along with the Notre Dame clubs through­out the world, Universal Notre Dame Night W.1S obser\-cd. 
TIic event was held in downtown Kansas City at the Hotel President. The night was started with a cocktail parly at 6:30 and was followed by a roast beef dinner in the Grand Balltoom. .-Ap­proximately 250 people were in attendance. 
The universal theme for the night was the Holy Cross Fathers. A former Kansas Citian, and now with the Foundation at the University, DICK BOWES, briefly outlined to the audltncc the work of the Fathers in both the educational and mis­sionarv' fields. 
JOE STEWART, prominent in Notre Dame activ­ities and in business, then introduced the guest speaker of the evening, TERRY BRE.\NAN, head football coach. Before Terr>' look the microphone, a film was shown of his brilliant 97 yard touch­dov%-n run against Army in the 1947 Army-Notre Uauie game. Terry then spoke ti> the assembled gathering of the team of last year and the pros­pects for the coming season. He thanked the alumni lor their unwavering support and said that he hoped it would continue both through the good and bad. Among the interested listeners was one of the greats of the Knute Rockne era, FORREST GOTTEN. 
On the local level, the program tlien switclied to a "Past Presidents Appreciation" theme. These men were those who had kept the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City going through both the good years of its existence and the more lean ones. In appreciation, a plaque was piesented with the 
KANKAKEE VALLEY — Romy Hanuncs, 

University seal and their name on it. Those honored 
and the years that thev served: 
JOSEPH SH.\UGHNESSY» 1931; HENRY J. 

MASS.MAN. JR., 1933; JOSEPH R. STEWART, 
19M; JOHN O'CONNOR, 1936; NOR.M.AN M. 
BOWES, 1937; ROBERT M. TYLER. 1938; VIN­
CENT W. DeCOURSEY, 1942-46; THOM.AS M. 
REARDON, 1947; JOSEPH VAN DYKE, 1943; 
ROBERT P. FENDERGAST, 1949; EDWARD J. 
REARDON. 1950; THOMAS E. (BEN) OAKES. 
195!; RICHARD BOWES. 1952; ROBERT J. 
METZLER, 1953-54. 
.Xnnouncement was also made of the new of­ficers for both the Ahunni Club in Kansas City 
 right, nationally known businessman and 
philanthropist, receives the first Man of the Year Award given by the Kankakee Valley Notre Dame Club from the president, Maynard Bissonncttc. The $250,000 Notre Dame Book Store building wxs donated by Mr. Hammcs. 
NEW JERSEY—Among the prominent c^ucsts at the Universal Notre Dainc Night meeting were, from left to right: Joseph Byrne III, chairman of the event; Jack Lavclle, toastniaster; Major General Garrison H. Davidson, superintendent of the U. S. Military Academy and guest speaker; Coach Terry Brennan. guest speaker; and club president Robert Joyce. 
and liic Campus Club al ihc UiiivL-rsily. The lu-w (>IIict*rs of tlic Alumni Club iutroducfd are: 
EDWARD F. AYLWARD, '48, IVtrsidcnt; JACK HAYES, •41, Vice Prcstdeiii: JOHN* MASSMAX. '56, Sccrrtary: and JIM DeCOURSEY, 34. Treasurer. 
Tlir new officers of llie Cainpu'. Cluli introduced arc: 
ROBERT MASSMAN, President; THOMAS FLEMING, Vice President: JIM LUIS, Secretary: BILL NOGES, Treasurer. 
Retirini; president RUSS FARRELL llien turned llie meeting over to the new president, ED .-\,YL­WARD. Ed then presented to Russ a pen set with ihe Chib name and Russ's and the years he >er\'ed. He received a justly deserved round of applause. 
On the eveninj; preceding the Universal Notie Dame Night affair approximately 50 couples gath­ered at the Alladin Hotel !n Kansas City for the annual Easter Dance of the Campus Club. This dance is put on each year by the students both for the students and the alumni. Les Copley and his orchestra furnished the music from 9 till 12. 
,\ M>rn>wful note is added with deep ret»ret to our news when on April 27. CLYDE G. .\TCHIN­
SON pasM-d away in Kansas City. Missouri. 
—JOHN .MASSMAN, Secy. 
Kentucky 
On February I2th the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky had a Testimonial Dinner in honor of Paul Hornung. The dinner was at a banquet room in the New State Fairgrounds Coliseum. .About four hundred and fifty \vcre on hand to honor Paul. Among the distinguished guests at the speakers table were Auxiliarv Bishop Charles .Malonev. HARRY STUHLDREHER, TERRY BRENNAN, MOOSE KRAUSE, and COLONEL FRx\NK FEHR, who plavcd on Notre Dame's first football team. ROG HUTER was chairman for this dinner and \\-as assisted by PIERRE ANGER­MEIER and COLE.MAN McGUIRE. JOE DONALDSON wa* the capable ni;i>ter of cere­monies. 

On Sunday, March 3 the club had its tiuarterly Communion Sunday at St. Mar>' ^lagdalen's Chuich. Tlie group had breakfast together after .Mass. 
On Match 'M the club had a Knule Rocknc Coniniunion Sunday. .-\t breakfast President JOE HAR.MON, SR. said a few words of tribute about the great coach. 
Many of the alumni in this area had an op­portunity to see our Notre Dame basketball team in .\'C.-Vr\ Touniament action at Lexington on .March 16 and 17. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed this year with a dinner and dance at the Piovincial House. Moose Kratise was the principal guest. The new movie about the University was shown. BUD WILLF^'BRINK received the .Man of the Year .\ward. Officers for the coming year were announced, lliey are as follows: JIM HENNESSY, President; LEO BROU7C, First Vice President: JOE HARMON, JR., Second Vice President; JOE BOWLING, Secretary-; and JACK KINNEY, Treasurer. ROG HUTER and PAUL ^L\LONEY were elected to the Scholarship Committee. 
On .May 18, 19 and 20 the Notre Dame Club is sponsoring a Retreat to the .\bbey of Gethsemani. BOB GRiVY will soon be ordained a secular priest for the Archdiocese of Louisville. 
GENE KINNEY was recently appointed head basketball coacli at Bellarminc College here in Louisville. 
The club will have its second quarterly Com­nuinion Sunday on June 9. 
The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky will again march in the Corpus Christi procession under the Notre Dame banner. 
—JOE BOWLING. Scc>-. 

La Crosse 
The Xotrc Dojitc Club of La Crosso obscrx'cd Univcnal Noire Dame Niglit on April 24, 1957 with a rfct-ptioti and banquet at the Stoddard Hotel. Dinner music was provided by the Aquinas High School string quartet. Guest speaker was REV. JOSEPH BARRV, CS.C. The new color movie of Xotrc Oame was also shown. HENRY FUNK, president of the club welcomed the 75 alumni, wives and guests. .AUGUST GRAMS, toastmaster introduced the past presidents who were honored by the club. Thcv were JOHN ELLIOTT, AUGUST CR.\.MS, DAVID mT)E, ROBERT HACKNER, and WILLIAM DVOR<\K. General chairman — GEIL\LD HEBERLEIN; Banquet — JOSEPH BECKER; Reservations — BERNARD UVVINS; Program — J.A.MES KRO.VER; Recep­tion — HE.NRY FUNK; Publicity — DONALD SEIGER. A fifteen minute radio program inter-new with Father Barry was presented on station WKT\-. 
We have thirty-four known alumni In the club. Twenty-three were present. 
iMumni in attendance—REV. THOM.AS NINNE­.M,VN, JAMES KRONER, JOSEPH BECKER, GILES HACKNER, GERALD HEBERLEIN, DONALD WELCH, AUGUST GRAMS, JOHN ELLIOTT, ROBERT PADESKY, WILLUM DVOR^VK, DAVID HYDE, KARL SCIL\ETTLE, PETER NINNEMAN, FREDERICK FUNK, ROBERT HACKNER, RICHARD PEARSE, STEPHEN PAVELA, JOHN RAU, ROGER ZOELLNER, BERNARD LAVINS, ALBERT FUNK, HENRY FUNK, and JOHN SI.MONES. 
Students—RICHARD NI.X.NE.\L\X and CARL XOELKE. JR. —JI.M KRONER, Secv. 
Lehigh Valley 
Universal Xotrc Dame Night was observed by the Notre Dame Club of Lehigh Valley on the evening of April 27. The highlight of the evening was a holy hour at the Church of the Assumption in Colesvillc. The pastor. Rev. \Villiam F. Drobel reviewed the basic enls of communism and rc-
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 39 
iiimdcd llic participaiiu thai prayer was thi; basic weapon of defense and tlic hour was so dedicated. 
There followed a reception and buffet supper at the home of the club's president, DR. and ^IRS. LOUIS T. GABRIEL, JR. with over 100 in at­tendance. Rev. Stephen J. Daday, principal of Central Catholic High Scliool, Allcntown and the Xotrc Dame students from the area togcUier with their parcnu were guests of honor. During the course of tlie evening, Larry- WIcder was nanied **Noire Dame Man of tlie Year." 
Larry- is a I7-year-oId AUentown Central Catholic senior who broke his neck in a football game last fall. Still partially paralv-zed, he returned home recently after a four-month slay at Sacred Heart Hospital. He was cited for his "courage ihrougliout his long seizure." He refused to give up despite overwhelming odds against lilra. During his long slay at the hospital, Wieder won praise from doctors and nurses for his courageous, uncomplaining at­titude. Larr\' attributes his recovery to "constant prayers to Our Lord." He Is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Wlliam WIcder of Grape Street, Fullcrton. 
—LOU WYNNE, Secx". 

Los Angeles 
Tlie dub celebrated Univt.•r^al Notre Dame Night on May 8 ulih RE\'. ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C., as guest speaker from the campus. Tlie annual picnic is sclieduled for August 25 at the St. \1nccnt de Paul summer camp. The club's retreat will be held on September 6, 7 and 8 at the Manresa Retreat House in Azusa. Other events this fall include a spurts dinner on November 6 at the Pabst Brewer>', Universal Communion Sunday on December 8 and a Christmas dance. 
KENTUCKY—Joe Harmon, immediate past 
Memphis 
Our club held Notre Dame Night on April 16 and had a fine turnout. We had approximately 130 in attendance. HARRY STUHLDREHER made an excellent talk and his appearance certainly helped boost the attendance. 
Other items of Interest arc LOU S.AMPSON, *48, has left the Miller Brewing Company and has joined Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Beanc in Memphis, and BILL PODESTA, M8, has re­turned to Mcmphb from Cleveland, Mississippi. He Is still with OrgJlI Brothers Hardware Company. 
—JI.M TYRRELL, Secy. 

Miami 
Miami alumni attended Florida's annual state convention in Ft. Lauderdale. FATHER THOMAS O'DONNELL, C.S.C., was guest speaker from the campus while ED KRAUSE serxcd as toast­master. JACK ADAMSON was selected as Miami's Man of the Year. 
Michigan City 
REV. CHARLES HARRIS, C.S.C., was tlie club's guest speaker from the campus on Universal Notre Dame Night with DR. JOSEPH BERG.AN pre­siding. Father Harris reviewed the founding of the Congregation and revealed plans for the construc­tion of a new seminary. The dinner ^^-as held at the Italian Village. The club's annual contribution to Notre Dame was presented to Father Harris. 
Tlie dub has a regular meeting the first Wednes­day of each month. Presently, the\- arc being held at the liome of club president DR. JOSEPH A. 
 president of the Notre Dame Club of Ken­
tucky, presents the club's check of S400 to Alumni Secrctar>' Jhn Aniistrong for an un­restricted contribution to Notre Dame. Kentucky alumni also sponsor a scholarship program. 
BERGAN, '42. .All alumni in tlic area are cor­dially incited to attend. 
TTie club's major undertaking this year will be tltc football trip to Purdue in September. We plan to give Coacli Brennan and the team all of the vocal support necessary to get them off on the right foot for a winning season. JOHN A. KELLEY, JR. '25, the Pete Redden of Michigan City, is again the chairman. With his hand on the throttle, wc are sure that it will be full steam ahead for Lafavette. 
—DONALD F. AVENTL.\ND, '51 

Midland-Odessa 
REV. RICHARD GRIMM, C.S.C., assistant re­ligious superior at Notre Dame, was guest speaker at the club's UND Night meeting on April 30. Organized by president JOHN BUCKLEY, an cntliusiastic audience of 32 was present. 
Milwaukee 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Milwaukee began what it is hoped u-ill be a most successful year with the election of oflicers on Monday, June 10. JAMES A.- BYRNE, associate director of Adult Education at Marquette University, x*-as elected president of the dub. Jim, who received his AB degree in speech in 1340 and his Masters In Education in 19+3, is married and the father of three children. 
Rx\Y SULLIVAN, a 1950 Journalism graduate, was selected \-icc president by the group. Ray has just recently moved to Milwaukee from Sheboygan; he Is in sales and plant management iritli KolinskI Concrete Company. He Is married and has three daughters. 
A 1956 grad In Marketing, JOH.V F. .\LVNION, was installed as secretary for the coming year. John, who is engaged to be married September 7 in Mishau-aka, is In the Consulting Engineering Department at Chain Belt Company. 
Treasurer during the fiscal year will be WALTER 
O. SCHNEIDER, a '54 ME graduate. Walt, who is married and resides in Wauwatosa, is employed in the Engineering Standards Department at Chain Belt Company. 
Inmicdiatc past president, MARK A. PFALLER, was appointed diairman of the board of directors Ut succeed ILVY DW\*ER, whose term had expired. 
Guest speaker at the June 10 meeting was L/\WRENCE "MOON" .MULLINS, former N. D. Atl-American and presently athletic director at Marquette UniVersIly. Moon, who had just re­turned from tlic Alumni Reunions on the campus reminisced about the great value he derived from the vbit. He also gave the membership his views on the prospects for 1957 football at Notre Dame. He stated that "Notre Dame Is indeed fortunate in having a man of TERRY BRENNAN'S calibre as head coach." He landed the work that Brennan did during his first two seasons at his alma mater and said that he felt confident that last season's disastrous results would not be repeated. *'Moon" sincerely felt that the coming season would show results as of old. 
The annual Notre Dame Club Golf Outing was discussed and the dale was set at August 8. All .Alumni and friends of the University are cordially invited to the all-ilay affair. 
—JOH.V MANION, Secy. 

Muskegon 
ROBERT CAHILL, athletic ticket manager, was the dub's guest speaker on Universal Notre Dame Night. J. M. PRICE was named Man of the Year and Thomas L. Lo\-ak received the dub's scholar­ship au-ard. New oHicers of the club are FRANK OEHLHOFFEN, president; WILLIAM TARDANI, \ice president; VIRGIL BARDASH, treasurer; and LEO LINCK, secretary. JOSEPH F. KEUSCH, retiring president, was toastmaster at the affair. .Approximately 50 members and guests enjoyed a talk by Cahill as well as a showing of the new f:ampus movie. 
Naugatuck Valley 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG was the speaker and 
the *'Notre Dame" film the outstanding feature of 
the U.N.D. Night dinner meeting of the Nauga­
tuck Valley Club at tlic Roger Smith Hotel in 
Watcrbury on June 28. 
Departing from the previous state-wide single 
meeting, the clubs in Connecticut this year held 
separate family-style gatherings, with President 
JAMES SCIGLIANO and Secretary NORBERT 
HENEBRY the spark-plugs of the event. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
MEMPHIS—Guest speaker for UND Night was Harry Stuhldrchcr, astride the nag. Others, left to right arc: Ed Duke, Mickey Moran, Jim Tyrrell and Hugh Mage\-ney. 
Fifiy-cight Notre Dainc fotnilics competed with a State K. of C. meeting' of the 4llt Degree, in making" a large clay in Waterbury. 
New Haven 
Altmini Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG was guest speaker at New* Haven's Universal Notre Dame Night meeting held at Fitzgerald's Restaurant. 
G. ALBERT IwVWTON was named Man of the Year by the club. JOSEPH BURNS served as toast­master and introduced the speakers as well .is special guests. 
New Jersey 
The 34th Universal Notre Dame Night, spon­sored by the Notre Dame Alumni j\ssociattoii of New Jersey, and under the excellent chairmanship of JOSEPH BYRNE, HI, and co-chairman, ELMER MATTHEWS, was a tremendous success. A ca­pacity dinner of 400 at the Mayfair Farms, West Orange, New Jersey, attended by Notre Dame graduates and their wives and friends, enjoyed one of the finest meetings ever held by the New Jersey Alumni. 
Guests, TERRY BRENA\,VN, head football coacli of Notre Dame, and Major General Garrison 11. Davidson, Superintendent of the United States Military Academy at West Point, delighted those in attendance with their respective addresses. Ever>'one was Impressed with Terry Brcnnan's review of last year's football season and promising predictions for the future. It was fitting to wit­ness two outstanding representatives of Army and Notre Dame once again renewing relationships whicli will be highlighted In the coming fall between the Notre Dame-Army clash at Philadelphia. Om: club was privileged and honored to have sucli a distinguished guest as Major Gen. Davidson. 
JACK LiWELLE was the toastmastcr and his wonderful stories were never better. JOSEPH BYRNE, JR. presented plaques and 

hunurs to all of the past presidents of the N. J. Notre Dame Ahunni ^Vssoclation and these are the Notre Dame men honored: 
JOSEPH ABBOTT, A. L\'NDON BRYCE, WIL­LIAM a\RTER, LEO COSTELLO, RICHARD DERRICK'S, EDWARD DUGGAN, THOMAS FARRELL, GERVASE FROELICH, R.\YMOND GEIGER, PHILIP HEINLE, RUSSELL RILEY, THOMxVS HOGAN, ARTHUR LE.V MOND, GEORGE MELINKOVICH, FR^VNK MILBAUER, PAUL O'CON'NOR, DANIEL 0*NEILL, PHILIP PROVISIERO, THOMAS PURCELL, PETER QUINN, CL.ARK RE\*NOLDS, JOHN WIN­BERRY, BERNARD WINGERTER. 
Notre Dame Basketball Coach JOHNNY JORD;\N also was among the speakers. 
Other past time greats in attendance were, to mention a few: JIM McGOLDRICK, FR^\NK TRI­PUKA, /VNGELO BERTELLI, PHIL SHERID.VN, HARRY STEX'ENSON, BUMP REG.AN, JOHNNY 0»BRIEN, JOE McKEON, Lr\RRY DOYLE. 
Tliis meeting demonstrated tlic remarkable lead­ership through the past year of our club president, ROBERT JOYCE, class of 1950, who has reactiratcd this club Into one of the outstanding clubs In the entire country, lie has plans for golf, picnics, and other such events in the near future, so let's support our club. 
—JOHN F. KELLY, Sec>-. 

New Mexico 
The Notre Dame Club of New Mexico celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night Thursday, May 2 with a banquet at the Kirtland Air Force Base Officers Club. Universal Notre Dame Night is alu*ay5 a joyful occasion here In New Mexico be­cause it gives us an opportunity to renew old acquaintances with our out of town members who because of distance are prevented from attending the club's regular meetings. As for renewing acquaintance, we were greatly pleased with the presence of FATHER GRIM.M, our Notre Dame representative, whom many of us pleasantly recall in our sojurn through Notre Dame. 
After au excellent- meal, our .president LOUIS LUJ.VN presented our former president CECIL. JORD^VN with a memento of the club's esteem for his efforts in organmng the Notre Dame Club of New Mexico. 
A talk by Father Grimm on the history of Notre-Dame C^^hich is never too often repeated), and a color film on The Notre Dame Spirit (whicIi brought a mist to the eye of many a rugged alumnus) were the focal points of the evening. 
As well as our own FATHER BUTLER, among-our honored guests was FATHER KELLERHER,. S.J., Pastor of Immactdate Conception Parish In< Albuquerque. 
—JERRY LOMBARD!, Scty-

New Orleans 
New officers recently elected by tlie Notre Dame-Club for 1957 are as follows: President, JAMES E. SMITH; Vice President, THO.\L\S J. Mc%LVHON.-: Secretary-Treasurer, JOSEPH, DAVID HI. 
—PjETER L. HILBERT 

New York City 
UNTVERSAL NOTRE DAME COMMUNION SUNDAY 
The Communion Breakfast of the Notre Dame-Club of New York took place at the ^Valdo^f ^Vstoria on December 9, 1955. Approximately 250' Noire Dame men attended Mass and received Holy Communion at St. Patrick's Cathedral and hence-attended the breakfast. 
Guest speakers were F.-VTHER MURPHY, Regis­trar of the University and H.AROLD VANCE, ex-presidcnt of the Studebaker Corp., and' presently a member of the Atomic Energy Com­mission.' CHARLES M. REAGAN acted as chair­man of the afTalr. 
NOTRE Dr\.ME BASKETB^VLL TEAM During the Christmas week, the Notre Dame-Basketball Team* played in the Eastern Athletic* 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 41' 
SPOKANE—^Father Arthur Hope, C.S.C., was guest speaker from the campus on Universal Notre Dame Night. From left to right: Edward J. Bcthke, '28; Father Hope, Francis H. Herron, *35, Elmer Johnson, '23, Dr. Robert Mahcr, '35, and James H. Lynch, MO. 
Conference Holiday FeslK-al at tlie Madboii Square Garden. The team did fairly well, only losing to Manhattan in the finals. Choice scats were sold to the alumni for this tournament by the club. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB SCHOLARSHIP FUND 
On January 23, 1957, the Xotre Dame Club of New York Scholarship Fund raffled off a 1957 Ford Country Squire Stationwagon in order to raise mnnc>' to send a boy to Xotrc Dame. This cn­
•dcavor was highly successful to such an extent that two scholarships \nll be awarded for the year 1957. Tlie car was won by Mrs. NL Vertano of Felham, New York. A special prize of an R.C.A. 
«olor television was awarded to the seller of the wnning chance; your sccretar>- was lucky enough to win this set. 
ELECTION OF OFFICERS FOR 1957 On Januar>- 23, 1957, the following men were 
elected as otlicers of the club for the ensuing year: WILLIAM H. FALLON, President; ANTHONY 
F. EARLEY, Executive Vice President; ROBERT REALE, Treasurer; STEPHEN W. MUL\TY, Secretary-; REV. CRONIX F. KELLY, Chaplain. ^VESTCHESTER AND BRONX DIVISION 
On February* 13, 1957, a group of alumni linng and working in Westcliester and the Bronx ^vcrc given permission by the Board of Governors to organize a Westcliester dixision of the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
Messrs. TOM LANTRY, GEORGE 0»NEIL, TONY DiBARl, FRED CARIDEO and DONN DUFFY, to mention a few, have organized this dix-ision and have made great plans for the future. Under their auspices a Kick-off Meeting was held on April 10, 1957 at the Westcliester Country Club. MOOSE KRAUSE, .\thletlc Director of the Uni­versity' was gupst speaker. 

NEW YORK CFTY—Special guests at the club's UND Night celebration included, from left 
MiNi>e advised tlie 200 alumni in attendance that 
Notre Dame is not dc-cmphasizing football, if any­
ttiing, they are striving for a bigger and better 
football team. 
OWEN MURPHY, producer of the new Notre 
Dame picture gave us a sneak preview of his Him. 
The Unix'ersity and Owen Murphy arc to be con­
gratulated. This picture is the best of its t>*pc 
that has ever come out of South Bend, and will 
aid all alumni clubs throughout the country greatly 
in arousing interest in our University. 
WOMEN'S AUXILIARY 
On March 2, 1957, the Womcns' Auxiliary* headed by Mrs. GEORGE L. OLVANY held an organiza­tional meeting at the Town & Country Restaurant on Park .Avenue in New York City. Approximately 100 women were in attendance and the ladies had a gala time. 
ANNUAL RETREAT 
Tlie Annual Retreat of the club was held March 
8-10 at the Bishop Malloy Retreat House in Jamaica, 
New York under tlie diairmanshtp of HERBERT 
P. GIORGIO. Approximately thirty-five alumni were in attendance, and all feel that the Retreat was a great success. 
L.\ETARE VESTMENTS 
Per our annual custom, the Notre Dame Club of New York awarded two sets of Lactare Vest­ments. One set was presented to CARDINAL SPELLMAN on April 17, 1957, and the other set was awarded to the new St. Agnes Cathedral, seat of the new* Long Island Diocese. 
UNIVERSAL NOTRE DAME NIGHT 
The *'Fighiing Irish'* met the famous Jewish Lord Mayor of Dublin. On May 3, 1957 a banquet was held at the Crystal Ballroom of the Park Lanr Hotel on Park Avenue, New York City. 

Tile guests included REV. JOHN aWANAUGH, C.S.C., Robert Wagner, Mayor of New York, John McGrath, Waterfront Commissioner of Nevv York, and the Lord Mayor of Dublin, Robert Briscoe. 
Over 300 Notre Dame alumni, their wives and friends were treated to the greatest Universal Notre Dame Night ever undertaken by the New York club. PAT OLVANY and TON*Y EARLEY, co-chairmen arc to be congratulated for an excellent job. 
W1LLIA.M COTTER, class of 1913, former Gen­eral Counsel of the Union Carbon & Carbide Cor­
 to right: Commissioner John P. McGrath; 

Hon. Robert F, Wagner, Mayor of New* York City; Hon. Robert Briscoe, lx>rd Mayor of Dublin; Hon. George Vergara, Mayor of New Rochelle; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C.; and club president William Fallon. 
I 42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1957 
FLINT—The head table at the club's UND Night dinner included, from left to right: Club President Ray KcUy, Jr.; F. A. Bower; Rev. Luke M. Powers; Edward T. Ragsdale, president Buick Motor Division; Father Joyce, executive vice-president at Notre Damc^ principal speaker; Waldo E. McNaught, toastmaster, and director of public relations, Buick Motor Division; Anthony G. DeLorenzo, vice-president of public relations, General Motors Corp., and Flint's *Man of the Year for 1957*; Ivan L. Niles, vice-president, Buick Motor Div.; Michael 
A. Gorman, editor, The Flint Journal; Hon. George M. Algoe, mayor of Flint; James J. Sherry, Jr., general chairman; and Frank J. Manley, director of the Mott Foundation and 1956 winner of Man of the Year award. 
poration was presented with a scroll giWng rec­
ognition to his great success in the business world 
and rccognizins all the work he has done for the 
Uni^trsity. 
ANTHONY F. EARLEY, in recognition of the tremendous job he did as president of the Xotre Dame Club of New York in 1956 was honored as **Notrc Dame Man of the Year.'* 
LONG ISLAND DIVISION On May 22, 1957, COACH TERRY BRENN.\N was the honored guest at the Inaugural Meeting of the Long Island Division of the Notre Dame Club of New York, held at the Garden City Hotel, Garden City, Long Island. Approximately 350 alumni who live and work in Long Island gathered together to hear Terry's prognostications of the coming football year. The alumni informed Terry that they were behind him one hundred per cent. JACK LAVELLE was the toastmaster for the evening. Many thanks to AL LESMEZ and GORDON FORRESTER for organ­izing and nmning this great affair. —BUD .MULVEY. Seo". 
North Florida 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by the North Florida Club at a banquet held at the Plan­tation House in Jacksonville on Wednesday, May 1. MOOSE KR(\USE gave an enlightened report from the University and showed the new film "Notre Dame.** Sixty-five persons attended and enjoyed the steak dinner and the cocktail hour preceding the meal. 
JOHN BALDUIN was presented a plaque on the occasion in recognition of his outstanding work as athletic director and basketball coach at Bishop Kenny High School. Special note was made of the success of his basketball team which won the state cliampionship this year. 
SAM LOLLAR was chairman of the event and he was assisted bv FRED R/\HAIM. LOU FINSKE, JERRY JOHNSON. DICK BRODEUR. JOHN CORRIGAN, AL KESSING and JOE HARTZER. Dick Brodcur 5en.*ed as master of ceremonies. 
The next monthly meeting of the club will be held in June at the projection room of the 
Florida Theatre. Lou Finske has arranged for a 
sneak preview of a new mo\-ie and refreshments 
will be served. 
—JOHN F. CORRIGAN 
Oklahoma City 
We held our Universal Notre Dame Night Dinner at the Oklahoma City Golf and Countr)' Club, on April 30, and had a verv fine attendance. 
J. E. PETERSCHMIDT, Class of '32, was the general chairman of the afTair. FATHER RICK was our principal speaker and gave us a very in­spiring talk. BISHOP EUGENE J. McGUINNESS of the Oklahoma City-Tulsa diocese, was also one of our guests. 
We honored HASKEL ASKEW, Class of '31, with the Man of the Year award for 1956. 
Our Boy of the Year is Charles ^\''ade, Jr., from Lawton, Oklahoma. He is in the Junior class at St. Mary's High School in Lawton, and is the oldest of ten children. Charles is the third boy to receive this award to date. 
—E. S. KAVANAUGH 
Oregon 
TIic Notre Dame Club of Oregon held its largest turnout in history at the University Club in Port­land on Monday evening, April 29. Over 80 mem­bers and guests were present to hear the REV. ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C. give a very interesting talk on the building program for Moreau Seminary*. The Hon. Judge FR/VNK LONERGAN, *W w.-is elected "Notre Dame Man of the Year." A plaque will be publicly presented al a later date. Officers elected for the coming year include: BOB HEALY, Vice President; MORRIE CONWAY, JR., Treas­urer: PETE SANDROCK, Secretarv: TOM Mc-MAHON, Member of the Board. HUGH LACEY, JR. is the hold over president from last year. The club has made plans for a family picnic to be held In June and for a "going away dance" in the fall to honor the new Notre Dame students from this area. 
Tlie Notre Dame Club w*as saddened by the loss of HUGH LACEY, SR., *I6, who passed away 

on February 9, in Portland, Oregon. He is gtv 
Wved by his wife and four children, including 
HUGH LACEY, JR., '45 and eight grandchildren 
—PETE SANDROCK, Secy. 

Peoria 
REV. ALFRED MENDEZ, CS.a , director of development for the Holy Cross Fathers in the Indiana Province, was principal qieaker at the club's Universal Notre Dame Night meeting; 
Philadelphia 
The Philadelphia Club embarked on another active year after clectins its officers for 1957. WALTER GROTHAUS was elected President; JOHN MOORHEAD, Vice President: JOHN NEESON, Treasurer, and JOSEPH WHITE, Secre­tary. Ser\'ing two-year temis on the Board of Directors are: JOHN DE.MPSEY. BILL BURNS, BILL \VHITESIDE, JOE CATTIE, TY DEMFSEY, JOHN MOORHEAD. CLIFF PRODEHL, JOHN NEESON. WALTER GROTHAUS, JOHN VOIT. CHARLIE CONLEY, and WALT RIDLEY. 
Univelsal Xotre Dame Night was a huge success. BART JOHNSON was chairman of this year's celebration, and BILL WHITESIDE was chainoan of the Patron Committee. O^'er 300 persons at­tended the affair held at the Cherry Hill Inn in nearby HaddonEeld. N. J. A talk by the REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH. CS. a higMighted the evening and the new film of Notre Dame was shown. 
The first annual presentation of Laetare Sunday vestments to a parish in the Archdiocese of Phila­delphia was made. The chib enlisted the aid of the MOST REVEREND JOHN F. OOIARA, C3.C., Archbishop of Philadelohia in detennining vrhn was to be the recin^ent of the vestments. BILL WHITE­SIDE and WALT GROTHAUS made the ptesen­tation to FATHER LAMOND of St. Augmtine's Parish. This will be an annual function of the club and is to be held in conjunction with the presentation of the Laetare medal by the UniversttT. 
JOHN and GERRY VOIT are getting together a new directory of all the members of the dld>­
CANADA—Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in Montreal with Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong as guest speaker. 
Anyone in the Philadelphia area who would like to be listed should get in touch with cither JOHN or GERRY through the club. Tlie meetings arc held on the second Tuesday of the month at the Catliolic Philopatrian Lilerar>- Institute, 1923 Wal­nut Street, Philadelphia^ CHARLIE COXLEY and WALT RIDLEY are co-cJiairmen of iliis year's football raffle. Each year finds this venture more successful. WALT PHILIPP is now back in the Philadelphia area as assistant to tlie president of Scliulmcricli Carillons, Inc. NEIL WORDEX has returned from his tour in the ser^'ice and expects to pcrfonn for the Philadelphia Eagles again. HAROLD DUKE was recently made \icc-prcsidcnt of the Tabulating Card Co. Tlie September meeting of the club will be the annual Back To Scliool meeting in honor of the students and their parents. All members of the alumni and their guests are. inWtcd to the prc-game rally October 11, the night before the Army-Xolrc Dame game at the Warwick Hotel, and also to the post-game cocktail party at the same hotel immediately following the game. 
—JOE WHITE, Secy. 

Phoenix 
REV. RICHARD GRLMM, C.S.C., u-as guest speaker at the Phoenbc Club's UXD Xight meeting on May 4. CARLTON GILBERT, President, \^-as in fJiargc of the afTair and about 30 attended the meeting. 
Pittsburgh 
REV. ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C., was guest speaker at the Pittsburgh Club's Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. Judge HUGH BOYLE pre­sided as toastmastcr. Tlie party was held In the Gold Room of the Gateway Plaza on Aprir25. Tlie club also presented their annual scholarship check to Father Mcndez for the University. Eighteen past presidents were among the Iionored guests at the affair. 
Puerto Rico 
On the night of April 27, the Notre Dame aliunnt in Puerto Rico held a two purpose meeting. They were celebrating Universal Notre Dame Night and formally cstablisliing the alumni club for the island of Puerto Rico. 
With the first purpose in mind, a banquet was held at Zipperlc's Restaurant in Hato Rcy at­tended by most of the alumni and •.tudcnts, their wives and fiances. JU.AN E. CINTRON, '40, pre­sided for the evening and gave a short talk on the historj- and work of the Holy Cross Fathers, the theme of this year's Universal Notre Dame Night. A short documcntarj' film of campus life, augmented by occasional and varied comments from the floor, was enjoyed greatly by all. The old-timers were especially impressed by the many physical clianges on the campus, and plans for even more in the near future. 
After dinner, the second purpose of the reunion was scrx'cd by the actual founding of the alumni club and the election of its officers. Thev were: JUAN E. CINTRON, '40, President; PAUL F. Mc-MANUS, *34, Vice President; ROBERT L. FORBES, JR., '35, Treasurer; JULIO E. \1ZCAR­
RONDO, JR., '56, Sccretar>-. 
We would also like to take the opportunity to open our doors to all who may be coming to Puerto Rico on business or pleasure. Our mailing address is Bo:c 9004, Santurcc, P.R., Phone 3-1833. 
—JULIO \a7.a\RRONDO, Scc>-. 

Rio Grande 
Our Rio Grande Valle>* Notre Dame Club was very thrilled to see tlie new 30 minute "Notre Dame" colored film at a buffet supper whidi was held on Mother's Day with a gathering of about thirty people. This was the occasion for meeting a new group of 1956 Notre Dame graduates who liavc just come down to Harlingcn Air Force base for naWgation training. 
..—^lOBERT E. AZIZ 

Rhode Island—S.E. Mass. 
The increasingly more active Rhode Island and Southern Massacliusetts Club held meetings in Marcli, April and .May. PAUL HOEFFLER, '25 was elected president at the March meeting and took over his new duties at the Universal Notre Dame Night affair held at the Sheratun-Biltmore Hotel in Providence on April 26. Other oificers are: XHce President, ALBERT E. GRZEBIE.\; Sccrc­tarv, JOHN J. CURTIN; Treasurer, CONR.\D TETRx\ULT. JIM AR.MSTRONG was tlie guest from the University for Notre Dame Night and hs entertained approximately seventy members and guests with his films and tales of the present day campus. At the May meeting, committees were appointed to handle the various yearly functions, and particular stress was put on the aclixilics sur­rounding the upcoming resumption of the Anny came series. 
—JOHN J. CURTIN, Sec>-. 

Rochester 
Tlie winter and spring months have been very active in Rochester. A February meeting was held at the University Club which featured highlights of past football seasons. Tlie meeting was well attended especially by the younger generation. Tlie annual election of officers took place in March. .After manv nominations, the club chose TOM HIGGINS ks its new president with JACK BURKE as vice president, BILL DEMPSEY as secrctar\' and JOE anTAL.\NI as treasurer. VIC DcSIMON was cliairman of the nominating committee. 
Tlic highlight of the year took place on Friday, .April 26 when the club and city of Rochester were honored by the appearance of REV, THEODORE HESBURGH as guest speaker of Universal Notre Dame Night. Tlie speaker's table contained many dignitaries from religious, political and educational organizations in Rochester. Father Hesburgh's ad­dress and movie of Notre Dame was well received by all present. The affair owes its success to the 
HAWAII—The club's annual Universal Notre Dame Night meeting, was attended by a capacity crowd of alumni and guests. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
j hard work of JACK DUFFEY and JOE GERxVGHTY as co-cliainucn and tlicir committee wiilcli includes BILL BELL, DOX BOOTH, VIC DeSlMOX, JACK HEj\GXEY, TOM HIGGLVS, DICK KLEE, ARXIE MORRISOX, CHARLIE O'BRIEN, BILL TOOLE, DICK SULLIVAN and VIC yA\V.\L\N. 
Universal Notre Dame Night in Rochester hon­

ored TOM 0*CONNOR by nominating him ai I Notre Dame Man of the Year. This award is I presented annually by the previous year's recipient. '. ARXIE MORRISON did a fine job in awarding [ the plaque to his successor. Tom has been out­
standing in the Catholic press in Rochester. 

Tiie women's organization has also been vcr>* i active. On the first Saturday in Fcbruar\- the annual mother-daughter luncheon was held. MRS. 
D. BERNARD HENNESSY was chairman assisted by Mrs. ADRLVN H:\XXA. Entertainment was provided by Kathleen and Camille Shechan, daughters of Mr. and Mrs. WILBUR SHEEH.\X. 

' The %vomen did a fine job ensuring the success of Universal Notre Dame Night. Mrs. JOSEPH FL\'XN was cliaiman of the event assisted by Mrs. DICK SULLIV.VX, Mrs. JOSEPH GER­AGHLY, Mrs. JACK HE.\GXEY and Mrs. JACK DUFFEY. Special mention should be made of the outstanding job of decorating on the part of ^frs. DICK SULLI\^\N and her committee. 
The Notre Dame family in Rochester is growing by leaps and bounds. The Vic De Simons have welcomed a boy to the household, the Gerry Flynns liave also added a boy; while the Jim Mulvaney's announce the addition of a baby girl. Congratulations to all. 
The noon luncheons held at the Hotel Rochester have been shifted to the Powers Hotel beginning June 3. The summer dance was held in June. ERIC JOHN SCOTT was chairman. The golf tournament was held in July ^^^th DICK SUL­LIV/VX as cliairman. A late August picnic will 

1 further add to the summer activities. -BILL DEMPSEY, Sccj*. 
Rockford 
REV. JOHN WALSH, C.S.C., newly-appointed head of the Department of Education at Notre Dame, was guest speaker at the clubs annual Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. FATHER WILLIA.M CRADDiCK, C.S.C, was also a guest of the club for the meetingr 
Rock River Valley 
REV. THOMAS J. BRENX,WC, C.S.C, was guest speaker from Uie campus on Universal Notre Dame Niglit. Edward J. Mandcville, Jr., was honored by being named as "Student of the Year" and was au-arded the Notre Dame scliolarship of 51,000. LUKE MORIN, club president during the past year, presided at the meeting. 
New officers for the coming year are as follows: President, JOHN &\HILL; Vice President, JOE GUCCIOXE; secretary, JAMES BALES; and treasurer, KAY DeCOURSEY. Directors include JOE BITTORF, DO.V DEWEY, ED SULLIV.VN, 
BOB MCDONNELL .ind PAUL FRY. 
Rome 
In Rome sixty N. D. alumni, former students and friends gatliered for the 34th celebration of Universal Notre Dame Xight on Sunday, April 28. 
The theme of this year: The Congregation of Holy Cross, was supremely highlighted here by the presence and participation of the Congrega­tion's Superior General, VERY REVEREND CHRISTOPHER J. OTOOLE, CS.C. Father General gave an excellent talk on the nature, his­tory*, and mission of Holy Cross as well as an ac­count of its work in our time. (Ed. note: Father O.Toolc's comments arc printed in this issue of the Alumnus. J.C.) The Rome Club feels especially honored this year in having the Superior General 

' as its honored speaker on this theme. 
To give local focus to the Holv Cross theme, BROTHER LOYOLA CHRISTOPH, CS.C , Head­master of Notre Dame International Scliool for Boys In Rome, gave an account of the progress of the scliool, skctdiing the plans for the forthcoming new buildings and grounds for NDI. A large architect's drawing was also displayed. 
GEORGE GLE/\SOX, Class of '37, now working as a civilian with the U.S. Navy in Naples, was chairman, and was assisted by PROF. PAUL BOSCO of N-DU (on leave), JOSEPH JAMES of North American College, Rome, NICK DE SIMOXE of the U. S. Consulate in Rome and VINCE McALOON, N*DI ScIiool of Rome. * 

Following last year's precedent the Rome cele­bration was held as a matinee afTair in order to accommodate the numerous alumni who are priests and seminarians studying in Rome, for Rome has an ancient clerical curfew! Accordingly the program was held outdoors under Roman palms in the palatial gardens of the Palazzo Brancaccio. 
A cold buffet supper was ser%'ed to the tunc of a musical trio who were clad in borrowed mono­gramcd football s\%'eatcrs from NDI. Notre Dame banners and penants served as a background while holding the center position of the area was a marble statue of Our Lady, a close model of the original atop ND's Dome. 
Guests of honor, in addition to the speakers were: REV. BERNARD R/\NSIXG, CS.C , Assistant Gen­eral; REV. EDWARD HESTOX, CS.C , Procurator General (Club Chaplain); BROTHER THEO­PH.VXE SCHMITT, CS.C , Treasurer. VERY REVEREND BROTHER OSWALD, C.F.X., Superior General of the Xaverian Brothers and an NDU alumnus. Sending regrets on his absence was a\PTAIX FR/\XCIS J.BOXX, of U. S. Navy and Nx\TO in Naples, Class of '26. 
.-Mumni who visited us just before or after Notre Dame Night: TO.M BLx\CK, '47; JOHN DOX­AHER, '54; BOB GR.\Y, '55; JOHX HUM.MEL, '56; BILL BRISIK, '56; JIM MALOXE (on leave), '58. DICK RE/\MER, '55 here at Christmas from Vienna has alerted several of foregoing to contact us. Finally, a venerable and well known alumnus appeared in Rome recentlv: WILLIAM C SCHMITT of Portland, Oregon. 
Joining our Rome Club recently: REV. J. JOSEPH RY.-\X of Boston. 
Our loss: JOHN KRUEGER, off to Paris to work for New York Herald Tribune and where he was recently married in "Notre Dame" there. 
—VIXCE Mc.\LOOX 

St. Joseph Volley 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed with a dinner honoring past presidents and featuring as principal speaker REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, CS.C , president of the University. JOHX JAXOWSKI served as chairman of the affair which was held In the Indiana Club with about 125 people attending. Special plaques were presented to the past presidents by club president WILLIAM GIBBOXS. The new moWc "Xotre Dame" was also shown to the audience. 
Xew officers Installed for the forthcoming year arc as follows: DOX FISHER, president; JOHX CACKLEY, vice president; RUDY GOEPFRICH, secretary; and ED AIEEHAN, JR., treasurer. THO.\L\S HICKEY, SR., is the honorary president. 
DICK RILEY and TOM SHEEH.\N were co-chairmen of the club's annual Golf Day held at Notre Dame on June 12. Tlirre was a large turnout as usual. 
St. Louis 
We were happy to have Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTRONG in town for our Spring Meeting at the University Club. Ever>-one enjoyed his report on various campus and alumni activities and de­velopments. PAT O'MEARA, DICK SAYERS and JIM JEXXEWEIX handled details of the meeting. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by the club on May 6 with a dinner at the Part Plaza Hotel. Tlianks to the efforts of Chairman CHARLES FARRIS and his hard working com­mittee, the event was a wonderful success. This year's observance w-as attended by more than 200 altminl, wives and friends of Notre Dame. In keeping with this year's theme, "The Spirit of Notre Dame—The Holv Cross Fathers," we were honored to have FATHER THEODORE MEHLIXG, 
KANSAS CITY—^Joe Stc^\•a^t, past president of the Kansas City Alumni Club and toast­master for the UND Night dinner is congratulated by guest spcalser Terry Brennan. 
FroviDdal of ihc Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province, as our principal speaker. Father Mchling told us about the plans for the new Seminary to be constructed on tlic campus and pointed to the importance of the Scminar>' building program as a key to the future development of the University. Following the dinner and talk by Father Mchling everyone enjoyed llic recently filmed movie of campus life. 
The annual Notre Dame Man-Of-The-Ycar Award was presented at part of the USD Night celebra­tion. This year's recipient u-as AL RAVARINO. The award was presented by last year's Man-Of­The-Year, RICHARD MUCKERMAN. In making the presentation to this year's Man of the Year it was pointed out that Al has been a keystone in the St. Louis altunni ever since he became a part of it. He has served on \irtually cvcr>' standing committee and has held cver>' oflicc in the club. 
Anotlier highlight of tlie evening was the presen­

tation of certificates to all past presidents of the 
club, numbering some twenty men in all. 
Following UND Night the club's new administra­tion moved into office. JOHN HIGGINS succeeds Don Dohcny in tlie oflice of president. OLLIE HINSM.AN will be Wee president - public relations, TOM McGUIRE will serve as vice president ­activities, HANK DAHM is the new \-ice president ­committees, and DON RATCHFORD is secretar>-­treasurcr. 
Our scliolarship committee diairman, JOE GO­LABOWSKI, has announced the selection of this year's four-year scholarship winner. \VILLL\M KLASNER, a senior at ^farquctte High School in Alton, Illinois u-as selected from among twenty nominees for the award. The scliolarship program was begun by the club in 1948. Five students from the Metropolitan St. Louis area arc now enrolled at the University under the program. 
A group o! some thirty club members were priW­leged to be among the first group of rctreatants to open the new Lady of Fatima Retreat House on the University campus the weekend of May 10. The trip was handled by Retreat Chairman JACK SULLIVAN and member? VINCE FEHLIG, FRANK POLLNOW, ED GRIESEDIECK, OLLIE HINS­MAN and PAUL FEHLIG. All who made the trip to the campus for the retreat came home with high praises for the new facilities and hope to make the retreat an annual affair for themselves and the club. 
SALINA—President Robert McAuliffc pre­sents the cluVs contribution of $1,000 to Rev, Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive \*ice-presidcnt of the University, at a com­bined meetincr of Wichita and Salina alumni. 
Upcoming events for the dub indude our annual family picnic on June 8. .MAL DOOLEY, WARD DRISCOLL and TOM McGUIRE arc bus>- wrap­ping things for the outing. Next on the calendar after the picntc will be our July Golf Tournament and Dinner. GENE FEHLIG, GEORGE DES­LOGE and LOU FEHLIG arc handling arrange­ments and announce tliat MOOSE KRAUSE will be on hand for tlic day. 
Our monthly luncheons are still being held the second Monday of every month at the Key Club of tlie Hotel Shcraton-JcfTcrson . . . come on and join us if vou'rc in town, 
—DON RvVTCHFORD, Sec%-.-Treas. 

Saginaw Valley 
Tlie Saginau- Valley Notre Dame Club held its | 
anntial election durins the Universal Notre Dame ^ 
Night meeting, April 29, 1957, at the Hickory I 
House, Midland, Micliigan. The Midland mem-i 
bers did an outstanding Job as hosts for the ^ 
evening. 
The officers for the year arc: VINCENT T. 
BOYLE, President; GEORGE K. WARD, Nice 
President; CH,\RLES J. LENZ, Secrctan-Treas­
urer; ALOIS G. SCHNEIDER, WILLIAM R. 
HOUSE, Directors, two years; THOMAS SIN­
CLAIR, GERALD E. CARROLL, WILLIAM 
HENDRICK, Directors, one vear. 
—ROBERT W. WrrCHGER 

Salina 
Tlic Salina Notre Dame Club recently contributed $1,000 to the University which was a restricted gift for the new seminary. The contribution will be used as an * "appreciation gift" in honor of FATHER BACHOFER, CS.C. BOB McAULIFFE, club president, presented the check to FATHER EDMUND P. JOYCE at the AMchita Club's UND Night meeting. Others from the local club who attended the affair included NORB SKELLEY, TO.M FOOTE, JIM FOLEY, ^rr. and Mrs. AL SCHWARTZ, Mr. and ifrs. AL McLE^VN and Mrs. McAuliffe. 
New members of the club include TOM KEN­NEDY, '51, who was recently discharged from the Army and is now with the firm of Kennedy and Coe in Salina, and LT. JOHN VACHRIS who h stationed at the Air Force Base in Salina. 
—AL SCHWARTZ 

San Antonio 
The San Antonio Notre Dame ^Mumni Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on May 15, in the Anacacho Room of tlie St. Anthony Hotel here in San Antonio. Guest speaker was F.ATHER JOSEPH RICK, CS.C. Father Joe presented an interesting an entertaining background story on the program of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. He concluded his address with a few re­marks on Notre Dame's plans for future develop­ment, to tic in with the film "Notre Dame," which was shovv*n to our guests. Tliis film was excellent and was enjoyed immensely by everyone. We were very fortunate to have Father Rick because we 
SAN ANTONIO—UND Night guests included, left to right: Mike Conley, program; Ralph Struhs, director; John Bitter, director; Jesse Poston, president; Father Rick, guest speaker; Father Mahrcy, club chaplain; Bill Dielniann, program; Ed Collins, director; and John Vaughan, vice president. 
Notre Dame Night with a meeting featuring the nc%v Notre Dame campus movie. 
Spokane 

NEW ORLEANS—Club officers, recently elected, are (left to right): Janies E. Smith. president; Thomas J. McMahon, vice-president; Joseph David HI. secretarj-treasurer; and Father McAllister, chaplain. 
>clieduled our celebration without a main speaker, 
and on the morning of the event Father happened 
to be passing through San Antonio and ver>' 
thoughtfully offered his services. WILLL\.M DIEL­
MANN introduced Father Rick. They were cla.-;'*­
matpe at Notre Dame in 1925. 
—JF^SE POSTON. Pr«.. 
San Diego 
HARRY MONAHAN, JR., 50, wa.> named ".Man of the Year" by the Notre Daiiic Club of San Diego at that group's obser\-ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night on May 9 at the Chinese Villain-restaurant. 
Presentation of tlic award, whicli was decided by a mail ballot of the club membership voting on noiiiinatious made by the board of directors, was made by HOWARD BEILSTELV, '47, who wa.s installed as president of the chib for the 1957-5It term at the banquet. 
REV. ARTHUR J. HOPE, C.S.C.. author »f "Notre Dame—100 Years." was the principal speaker at the banquet and sliowed the new niovii­on student life. 
Southeastern Wisconsin 
Xcw ofliccrs elected at tlic meeting on March II arc as follow: President, WALT McDERMOlT; Vice President, CHUCK JASKWHICH; Secretary-Triasurer, DICK MURPHY, Racine. An advbor>­board to assist tlie ofiicers was also elected and is composed of JOE KIVLIN, VERN HECHT and TO.M CVRROLL. 
FATHER JOSEPH BARRY, C.S.C., ivxs the guest speaker from tiic campus on Universal Notre Damc Night licid on April 29. 
South Central Wisconsin 
FATHER JOSEPH BARRV, C.S.C., MOT guest speaker at tlic club's UND Night dinner. Fifty members and guests attended the affair and EDWIX PICK served as a capable master of ceremonies. The board of directors elected the following as odicen for the coming year: THOMAS 
W. FROST, president; JA.MES FITZGER-VLD and DR. HAROLD C,\REY, vice presidents; and JOHX JAEGER, sccrctar>'-treasurer. Members of the board of directors, in addition to the above officers, are as follows: JOHN E. MARTLV, JOHN W. 
ROACH, DR. M. W. R.\NDALL, JOHN E. TOBIN, DR. WILLIAM H^VMILTON and KEN­DALL NIGLIS. The new campus moWe was also shown at the meeting. 
South Jersey 
One hundred and sixty alumni and guests cele­brated the 34th Annual Obsen*ance of Universal 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obscned by forty alumni, wives and friends of the club at cocktails and dinner at the Spokane Hotel on April 25. DR. ROBERT C. MAKER, '35 acted as cliairman for the occasion. Tltc cIiUi was very fortunate in having FATHER HOPE of Notre Dame as guest speaker and all enjoyed his inter­esting talk; also the fine film of Notre Dame. Among those attcndmg were BILL BROUCEK, *56 and MARTY DEVERAUX, '56 both now at Fair­child Air Force Base, MIKE SMITH. '59 and mother, Mrs. Fabian Smith and Mr. and Mrs. 
C. A. Myers, parents of GARY AfYERS, '59. Newly elected officers are FRANK J. HAGEN­BARTH, JR., '27, president; WILLIAM AVOLTER, '35, Wee president; and T. C KEARNS, '33. secrc­tar>--treasurer. On Communion Sunday, Dec 8, dub members, tlictr wives and friends attended Mass and received Communion at Our Lady of Lourdes Cathedral after which there was a breakfast at the Ridpath Hotel. The club was honored to have as its speaker His Excellency BISHOP BERNARD J. 
TOPEL, a Notre Dame man. who was intro­duced by THOM.AS A. E. LALLY, '06. . JAMES 
H. LYNCH, '40, Noire Dame Man of the Year for 1955-56 also spoke. 
The club was also happy to be of some assistance in the preparations for the Rosary Crusade con­ducted by FATHER PEYTON in the Spokanr stadium lo-st October. 
—EDWARD J. BETHKE 
Terre Haute 
.At the Lads and Dads Banquet given by the Schulte High School Booster Club the first annual presentation of the "Outstanding Schultean Award" was given by the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Terre Haute. The award is based on dtizenship. scholarship and sportsmanship. Dick O'Leary, senior student at Schulte High School was the receiver of the first award. JOHN MURPHY newly elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Terre Haute presented O'Leary ^rith the indi­vidual plaque, a miniature of the large plaque that will hang in the school hall and bear the names of the future reaptents of the award. Past President FRED CHRISTMAN presented the large plaque to the school. Dick O'Leary who 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Universal Notre Dame Night featured a talk by Rev. Thomas J. Bremian, C.S.C., and the awarding of the club's scholarship to Edward J. Mandevill^ Jr. (Ed, Sr., is a member of the '26 class). Front row, left to right: Ray DcCourscy, treasurer; Don Dewey, director; Father Brennan; Luke Morin, retiring president; Paid Long, past president. Back row: Ed Sullivan, director; Joe Bittorf, director; John Cahill, president­elect; Bob McDonnell, director; James Bales, new secretary; and Paul Fry, director. 
Noire Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 47 
will graduate lliis June will attend Noiic Daiue next fall. 
Tlic Xotre Dame Club of Tcrrc Haute celebrated Universal Notre Danic Xight on April 29 at the Tcrrc Haute House. During tlic celebration the Xotre Dame Man of the Year Award was presented to Past President RAYMOND J. KE^VRNS. In addition new officers were presented to the duh and their guests. TTie ne\** officers consist of President, JOHN MURPHY; \lcc President, DRUIE CAVENDER; Secretary, PETE VARDA; Treasurer, CHARLES MET2GER; Board of Direc­tors, J. STANLEY BR.\DBURY and JLM BOYER. Coacli BILL FISHER was the principal speaker of the evening, in addition to his interesting talk on *'Xolre Dame Builds the Whole Man." He showed a new film about the campus life at Notre Dame. Following Bill Fisher on the program, BERNIE BURDICIC announced tlie winners of the rafHc conducted by the club. The committee in charge of Universal Notre Dame Night was JOHN BOYER, DRUIE CAVENDER, and PAUL M.\RIETTA. 
Following the Universal X'olre Dame Night cclr­bratlon, Coach Bill Fisher and future student Dick 0'Lcar\- made an appearance on Terre Haute T\'' station. 
-JLM BOYER 

Tri-Cities 
Tlic club held a Communion Brcakfa^t on Dc­cu:mbcr 9 with Mass in St. Mar>''s Churcli, Moline, and breakfast in the LcClaire Hotel. A luncheon for the present Notre Dame students and their fathers was given on December 27 at the jVnicrlcaii Legion Home In Moline. 
FATHER GLENN BOARM.VN, C.S.C., was cele­brant of the Mass whicli was the highlight of the club's corporate family Communion Breakfast. Father Boarman also talked to the group as guest speaker. 
New officers of the club arc as foUowi: CAMILE 
F. BRACKE, president; ALFRED A. WADE, vice president; EUGENE F. GERWE, secretary-treasurer. Directors Include EM-METT KEENAN, THOMAS ECKL.\ND, WALTER DRi\Y, DR. ROBERT J. FOLEY and WILLLVM J. I^VFFiVN. 
—EUGENE F. GERWE, Sccx-.-Treas. 

Triple Cities 
In keeping with the tradition of Universal Notre Dame Night, tliis year the Triple Cities Alumni Club held an informal dance from 9:00 to 1:00 In the Starlight Room of the Carlton Hotel, Blng­hamton. New York on Friday evening, May 10. .Approximately forty couples attended, and danced to the music of Harold Smith and his orcliestra. In this rock and roll age some of the older members showed that tliey can still trip the light fantastic with the best of them. Wonder If there were any acliing bones the fololwing day. 
jOE GALLOWAY was diairman of tlie festivities, and was ably assisted by his committee, GEORGE HAINES, DICK HANIFIN, BOB HAGAN and TO.M BENEDICT. DR. FR.\NK CONOLE, DR. DICK SULLIVAN and BILL HOGxVN also lent a helping hand with the tickets. 
It is hoped tliat wc shall have a picnic for club members and their families during the summer, but at the present time plans are still tentative. 
—JOSEPH P. GALLOWAY, *5I, Sec>-. 

Toledo 
F.\THER GLENN BOAR.MAN, C.S.C., was guest speaker from the campus for the club's annual Communion Breakfast. He also received the Toledo Alumni Club's check for $1,000 to be given to the University as the club's 1957 contribution. More 
ST. JOSEPH A^ALLEY—'Man of the Year' awards have been given to Frank Miles, '22, and his son, Jack, '47, by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. Frank received the honor this year while Jack was the 1950 selection. 
than 100 people attended the affair whlcIi was held at the Park Lane Hotel following Mass and Com­munion at Gesu Church. J. RUSSELL LONGON and C. VICTOR BECK, JR.. were co-dialrmcn of the affair. FRrVNK McMrVXUS introduced Father Boarman at the breakfast. 
Tucson 
REV. RICHARD GRLMM, C.S.C., was guest speaker at the Tucson alumni meeting on Universal Notre Dame Xlglit. ^\bout 18 persons attended the affair presided over by KEN BAYLY, president. 
Tulsa 
COM.MUNIOX BRExVKF^VST 
One of the regularly scheduled Communion Masses was held during Marcli. Tlie turnout xvas excellent with about 40 members meeting after the Mass at Danner's for breakfast and a business meeting. FATHER MAURICE FREEMEYER, O.S.B., a N. D. graduate and professor at Bene­dictine Heights College, talked briefly to the group concerning the responsibilities of Catholic college graduates. 
GLEE CLUB CONCERT 
It was the Tulsa Club's pleasure to sponsor a concert of the Notre Dame Glee Club during April. The concert was held at Monte Casslno auditorium and no admission ^vas charged since It was a means of furthering our public relations effort in the Tulsa area. ^Vbout 800 people attended and hundreds of vcr>' favorable comments were received concerning the Glee Club's musical abilities. 
SCHOLrVRSHIP FUND 
TIic Scholarship Committee of the local ND Club has awarded two academic scholarships to young men wlio will enter Notre Dame next fall. One boy is a graduate of College High Scliool in Bartlesvlllc and the other of Marquette High, Tulsa. It has also been decided to increase the value of current and future scholarships because of the recent increase In tuition rates. 
Since the inception of the local Club's scholar­ship program, two men have been graduated and another five arc currently at ND with the aid i>r club scholarships. 
PARTY FOR FATHER JOYCE 
A special get-logether for ND alumni was held honoring FATHER JOYCE, speaker at the Uni­versal Notre Dame Night banquet. Tlie host was BOBBY SIEGFRIED, and JOE O'NEIL of Mid­land, Texas, was also an honored guest. Informal entertainment was provided by members of the Unlvcrsitv's Glee Club and a fine time, was had by all. 
NEW MEMBERS 
During the last few months CHARLIE BR^VD­LEY, LARRY MCL.\FFERTY, FR.\NK HERRING, FATHER .\L\URICE FREEMEYER, HUGH SCH.\EFER, and HiVNK MEYER have been added to the club's roster. A hearty welcome is extended to each new member. 
UNIVERSAL XOTRE DAME XIGHT 
FATHER EDMUND P. JOYCE, C.S.C., executive vice president, w*as the guest speaker at the Tulsa Club's Universal Notre Dame Xight meeting. He discussed various problems of the University includ­ing enrollment and the budget. .About 200 attended the event which also featured remarks from the MOST REV. EUGENE J. McGUINNESS, Bishop of Oklahoma City and Tulsa. JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, Midland, Texas, Immediate past presi­dent of the Xotre Dame Alumni ^Vssoclatlon, spoke to the group and presented the Man-of-the-Year award to the president, ROBERT D. SHEEH^\X. Toastniastcr for the occasion was WILLIAM J. SHERRY and special entertainment was pro\ided by the Xotre Dame Glee Club whlcIi presented a formal concert the night before In Tulsa. Tlie banquet clialrman was ROBERT ^L SIEGFRIED and co-chairman was LLOYD F. ^VORLEY. The committee consisted of JACK CONWAY, JR., ROBERT MANNIX, FRANK REIDY, WILLIAM SHEEH.VX and DAVID THORNTON. 
—BOB MANNIX, Secv. 

Twin Cities 
REV. JOHN WALSH, C.S.C., newly appointed head of the Department of Education at Notre Dame, was guest speaker at the club's annual Universal X'otre Dame Night meeting. 
Yirqinia 
The Kotre Dame Club of Virginia obser^'ed Universal X'otre Danic Night' ^rith -an informal 
WACO—Organized by Father B. J. Mahoney, alumni attended a recent meeting held at James Connally Air Force Base Front row, left to right: John Smith, John Piggot, Father Mahoney, Fred Simon, John Flynn and Bob Burchler. Back row, left to right: Joe Cor­
daro, Mike Hunt, Bob Taylor and Walter Zotter. 
family gct-logether on Monday, April 29. A gather­
ing of thirty-five members, wives and friends spent 
a pleasant evening at Richmond's new Markcl 
Building renewing old acquaintances and cnjo>-ing 
excellent food and refreshments. 
A business meeting was also held and plans for 
the coming year discussed. The session was high­
lighted by an election of officers for 1957-58. 
Chosen to head the club were: CHARLES A. La-
FRATTA, '47, President; E. MILTON FARLEY, 
'51, \ncc President; PAUL B. NOTT, '38, Sccre­
tar\-; LEO F. BURKE, '44, Treasurer. 
—BOB HOWARD, Retiring Scc>-. 
Wabash Valley 
Our UXD night celebration was held at the Elks Coiintr\- Club in Lafayette on April 29. New officers elected arc JAMES \V. GALSER, President; TOM FALLOX, \'icc President; J. R. ^fac-DONALD, Secretao". and DAVID KORTY, Trea­surer. The nominating committee was composed of 
J. KENNETH L.\WS, ROBERT MOHLM.\N and I^VRRY O'CONNOR. 
Past presidents hnnnred were KEN L,\WS, D. EM­METT FERGUSON, WILLLVM SCHRxVDER, TED MacDONALD, FR^VNCOS ENGLISH, BALFE WAGNER, ROBERT MOHLM.VN, L.\RRY A. O'CONNOR, P.VUL KENNEDY, R^\Y S. SWAN­SON and BILL RUNGE. 
JACK ZILLY was the guest speaker for the evening, replacing HANK STRAM, who ^\*as tmabic to attend because of spring football practice. Jack Mollenkopf, head coach at Purdue was also a guest. 
For the third year in a row, the ND blanket was won by someone on the Purdue staff, with this year's winner being Mrs. Dand LaMothe of the engineering stafT at Purdue. Even so, according to past performance this is our year to win the ball game. 
Last year under past president TED BUMBLE­BURG has been a success. In addition, Joe Bumbleburg, son of our president, was elected to be editor of the Dome at the • University, which is a point of pride. 
—BILL RUNGE 
Waco 
On May 3 alumni met in the Officers Club of James Connally A.F.B. and enjoyed the new Notre Dame morie. Tlic Highlights of the 1949 season also were shown to the group. FATHER BERNARD MAHONEY of St. Joseph's Churcli, Waco, was instrumental in getting the group together. Plans are being formulated to have a Notre Dame /Utmint Club or an alumni club of Catholic colleges. 
Washington, D. C. 
The Notre Dame Club of ^Vashington had the Christmas Cocktail Dance at the Sheraton-Carlton and the chairman for the affair was E. F. (DUKE) MURPHY. In Fcbruar>- the club had a business meeting at which the Football Highlights of '56 were shown and the club was addressed by BROTHER DOMINIC LUKE, F.S.C., President of St. John's College High School, Washington, 
D. C. A Day of Recollection was held in March at the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception. The chairman for this affair was BILL MIDDENTDORF. 

The Universal Notre Dame Night was held at the Shoreham Hotel on April 29. The guest of honor was FATHER aVV.ANAUGH, C.S.C., the toastmaster was the HONORxUJLE PAUL BUTLER, Chairman of the Democratic National Committee and the speaker for the evening was SENATOR JOHN F. KENNEDY. Following the senator's address the incoming president, JACK McGRATH, presented a plaque to the retiring president, DR. MATTHEW SULLIViVN. All the past presidents of the club were honored and presented with a gavel. The Universal Notre Dame Night celebration was under the direction and chairmanship of HOWARD SCHELLENBERG. At the Universal Notre Dame Night the newly elected officers took over their duties, Tlie new officers are: JOHN 
A. McGRiVTH, President; AVILLIAM MIDDEN­DORF, Vice President; WILLIA.\I V. DENNING, Sccrctarv; PAUL FISCHER, Treasurer; DR. MAT­THEW SULLI\^^\N and JOHN BR.\DDOCK, Board of Governors. 
—WALTER J. MURPHY 

West Virginia 
Approximately 45 members, wives, and guests 

obser^'ed Universal Notre Dame Night with a din­
ner at the Glass House Restaurant at the Kanawha 
Airport. Plans were initiated for the formation 
of a Notre Dame Ladies Auxiliary. Club ofScers 
were elected for the coming year: President, 
GEORGE W. THOMPSON, JR., '41; Vice Presi­
dent, JOSEPH M. FALLON, '50; Secretarv-
Treasurer, J. F. KAE.MMERER, '54. 
—lAWRENCE G. HESS, '38 

Western Washington 
FATHER ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C., was guest speaker at the club's UND Night dinner. .-V fine turnout enjoyed listening to Father Hope as well as watching the new Notre Dame movie. .\ special guest was the Most Rev. Thomas E. Gile, .\uxiliary Bishop of Seattle. The special theme of the meet­ing was to honor past club presidents. JOE LOTT.\ and DON SULLIV^VN ser\'ed as co-chairmen of the dinner held at the Washington .Athletic Club. 
Wichita 
Eighty alumni and their friends welcomed FATHER JOYCE in the form of a dinner meeting at the /Mils Hotel, Wchlta, Kansas. Honors for the most faithful alumni went to FRANCIS MOR.\N, '40 of Nekoma, Kansas, and WAYNE SHRIWISE, *43 of Jetmore, Kansas, each of whom came two hundred miles for the meeting. The Salina alumni sent a delegation of ten, including their o\v-n press photographer, apparently not taking any chances in regard to publicity. (See Salina news.) 
—GEORGE A. SCHWARTZ, Secy. 

Youngstown 
HUGH DEVORE, coach of the Philadelphia Eagles, was guest speaker at the joint meeting held by the alumni of Youngstouii and Warren. The afTair was a big success and held at the Squaw Creek Country Club, featuring also a dance after the meeting. 
Engagements 

Mi&& Rosemao* Dunne and THOMAS R. HARDART, '38. Miss Carol>-n Ann Emenion and HUGH C. ADAMS, '43. Miss Eralccn R. Evcrson and JOSEPH A. NEUFELD, '44. Mbs Margaret T. Thomas and JOHN J. TEXGE. JR., '46. Miss Margaret Rose Gocpfrich and LEO R. ZMUDZINSKI, '52. Miss Joan Patricia Welch and WALTER J. MURPH\', JR., '53. Miss Rosalie Jean McLaughlin and JOSEPH T. CHALHOUB, '55. 
Marriages 

Dorolhv Heinle Keefe and WILLIAM C. JOHN­SON, '43, Garden City, N. Y., April 27. Miss Maureen McCuIlough and EDWARD J. CAMPBELL, JR., '50, Darien, Conn., May 18. Miss Patricia Doyle and HUGH E. MULLIGAN, JR., '50, Chicago, III., November 10, 1936. Miss Gloria Mary Gallagher and DR. GEORGE 
J. BERRY, '51, Sewickley, Pa., May 18. Miss Martha Vcazey and R. L. DITRAPANO, '51, Charleston, W. Va. Miss Maribeth HefTeman and PATRICK il. FLEMING, '52, Butte, Montana, June 22. Miss Happy Florcs and ALBERTO SALAZ<\R, '53, Havana, Cuba, April 28. Miss Mary Ann Kramer and THOMAS J, &«llP-BELL, '54, Indianapolis, Ind., April 27, Miss Margaret Alice Kennell and DAVID D, WILSON, '54, Notre Dame, Ind., February 2. Miss Joan Marie Sandmann and FORST £. BROWN, '55, Louisville, Ky., June 29. Miss Mama Aileen Bullard and LT. JOHN J. DROEGE, '55, Notre Dame, Ind., June 8. Miss Barbara Curry and M.\RK FAULHABER, '55. Miss Mary Rose Corbett and LT. ROBERT L. KERBY, '55, Notre Dame, Ind., June 8. Miss Susanne Martin and RALPH R. BLUME, *56, South Bend, Ind., June 15. Miss Marj- Rohr and RAY LEMEK, '56, Notre 
Dame, Ind., June 8. Miss Marilj-n Catherine McHugh and JOSEPH 
H. MEIER, '56, South Bend. Ind. 
Miss Hclga Graf and ROBERT W. I.AKE, '57, Michigan City, Ind., June 8. 
Births 

Mr. and Mre. EDWARD F. CUDDIHY, '25. a son, Patrick Michael, March 23. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., '37, a son, Philip, June 1 Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH a McNALLY, '37, a son, Joseph Anthony, April 14. Mr. and Nfrs. PAUL J. McCOR^UCK, '-10, a daughter, Maureen Ann, ^farch 20. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN B. BREH.MER, *43, a daughter, April 6. Dr. and Mrs. DANIEL J. ROURKE, *44, a son, Daniel Joseph, Jr., March 23. Mr. and Mrs. -MICHAEL ^^XLNBERG, '47, son, Bruce Henri, May 17. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE H. AVEISS, daughter, Elizabeth Jane, May 22. Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT DOYLE, '48, March 19. Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES T. BRADLEY. '49, son, Charles KeWn, May 15. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE McCARTHY, '49, flaugiiter. May 19. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD S. MURPH\\ '49, a son, Gerald S. II, December 7, 1956. Mr. and Mis. THOMAS WACK, '49, a son. May 15. Mr. and Mn. RAYMOND J. WATSON, '50, a son, Raymond Joseph, February' 13. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL R. CONNELL, '51, a SOD, Thomas Brennan, May 16. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. POWERS, '52, a son, Fcbiiiary 13. 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 
Mr. and ilrs. DONALD T. BERRY, '53, a daughter. Dona Mar\-, March 17. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN F. CORRIGAN, '53, a s<.n, Michael Patrick, May 6. itr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. CLARK, JR., '55, a daughter, Kathleen Mar>-, Februarj' 18. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL A. MILLER, '55, a daugh­ter, Ann Marie, March 14. Mr. and Mrs. VLNCENT RAY.MOND, '55, a daughter, Ann Frederick, May 26, Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD J. YEAGER, '56, a daughter, Mar>- Elizabeth, May 12. 
Sympathy 

T. EDWARD C\REY, '34, and ARTHUR CfVREY, '35, on the death of their father, April 10, ROBERT HA.\IILTON, '34, and JAMES HA.M­ILTON, '33, on the death of their father, April II. JOSEPH ZWERS, '37, on the death of his son, December, 1956. DR. ALBERT R. DRESCHER, '38, on the death of his wife in February-, 1957. WALTER J. MINDER, '42, on the death of his father. May 30. JOSEPH E, DiSPIGNO, '48, on the death of his father, March 28. KENNETH P. MURPHY, '48, on the death of his father. April 30. RICHARD S, BROSK, '49, on the death of his father. May, 1957, 
GEORGE A, RESNIK, '49, on the death of his father, April 12. 
Obituary 

FERNANDO GURZA, *I3, Torrcon, Mexico, died April 23 according to information received in the Alumni Office. 
HUGH LACEY, SR., '16, died on February 9 in Portland, Ore. For 30 years he was president of Phil Grossme>-er Insurance Company and later opened his OUTI company in Portland. He was an active member of St. Rose Parish and the Notre Dome Club of Oregon. Mr. Lacey is sur\-ivcd by his wife and four children, including HUGH LACEY, JR., 45, and eight grandchildren. 
MICHAEL P. A. MURPHY, '20, physical educa­tion director at Mount Carmel High School in Chicago for 35 years, died April 30 in his home at 1721 East 67th Street, Chicago. In 1919, he played on the Great Lakes Nax-al Training Station's Rose Bowl football team. He is survived by his >ridow, Mary, and a son, KENNETH P. MURPHY, '48. 
REV. JAMES F. NOLAN, '23, Clarks Summit, Pa, died on April 11, according to information received in the Alumni Office. 
THOMAS A. \\'ALSH, '23, died November 27, 1956, according to information just received in the Alumni Office. Sur^-ix-ors include his widow who resides at 6158 South Francisco, Chicago, III. 
AVILLIAM H. LOUGHLIN, '24, South Bend businessman, died May 5 in Memorial Hospital. Mr. Loughlin, a veteran of Worid War I, was a director of the Western State Bank and past commander of Chapter 6, Disabled American Veterans. He is sur\-ived by his %vife, Bemadctte, four sons, six daughters, two brothers, three sisters and 18 grandchildren. 
PAUL E. SAGSTETTER, '25, died June 6 in St. Joseph's Hospital, Fort Wayne, Ind., following a heart attack. A native of Wabash, Mr. Sag­stcttcr had been General "Hre distributor in Fori Wayne since 1932 and was manager and owner of the Sagstctter General Tire Company. He was a member of the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception, tlie Holy Name Society, the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus, the Elks, the Fort Wayne Press Club, and tlie Notre Dame Alumnt Club. Sur\'ivors include his A%*ife, Madalyn, w*ho resides at 4001 North Washington Rd., Fort Wayne. his mother and a sister. 
CHARLES DAVIS, '27, Mishawaka. Ind., ai­
1957 

lomcy, died April 20 after a month's illness. Mr. '. Davis, who had practiced law in Mishawaka since \ his graduation from Notre Dame, was active in Republican politics. He \vas a member of the Scottish Rite of St. Joseph Valley, St. Joseph County Bar Assn., and Veterans of Foreign Wars. Surx'ivors include his widow, four sisters and two brothers. 
STANLEY J. PELTIER, '27. Mt. Clemens, Mich., died May 1. Survivors include his wife who resides at 151 North Avenue, Mt. Clemens. 
KARL W. SCHERER, '31. died Febniar>-4 according to information just received in the Alumni Office. He is 5ur\-ived by his wife who resides at 727 Homewood Avenue, Dayton 6, Oliio. 
CHARLES M. FEIG, '40, died Februar>- 19, in Mishawaka. Ind. Sur\'ivors include his widow. 
MICHAEL S. .McKINLEY. '50, died April 23 in Detroit, Mich. Mr. McKinley also received a masters degree from Notre Dame in 1953. He h survived by his wife and five children who rcsidr at 14815 Rutherford, Detroit 27, Mich. 
LT. JAMES N. BOCK, '54, u-as killed in the crash of his Xavy plane near Luzon on March 19. Lt. Buck is sur\*ived by his wife, Mar>- Catlierinc, three children and his parents Mr. and Mrs. Harold F. Buck, 10858 South Washtenaw, Chlcatn* 43, III. 
JOHN H. PHEIwVN, SR.. 1951 redpient «f the Laetare Medal, died in Beaumont, Texas, on May 
19. He had been ill for several weeks. Atr. Phelan, an outstanding Catholic la>'man. was a prominent businessman and philanthropist. The Holy Father elevated Mr. Phelan to the rank of Knight of Malta, a Knight of St. Gregory the Great and a Knight in the Order of the Holy Sepulchre. Survivors include his wife, a daugliter. two sons and 22 grandcliildren. 
Mrs. Elvtn R. Handy, wife of the fonner Notre Dame track coacli, E. R. (Doc) Handy, died in . fou-a City, Iowa, on June 9. She is survived by 
her husband, a daughter and three sons. 
1902 
REUNION REGISTRANT THOMAS DWYER. 

1905 
REUNION REGISTRANTS WILLLUf D, JAMIESON AND DANIEL J. O'CONNOR. 

1907 
REUNION REGISTRANTS REV. TO.M BURKE, CS.C, REV, WENDELL CORCORAN, C,S,C„ REV, WiL CUNNINGHAM, CS.C, C, L, DE\aNE, JUDGE G, A, FARA­BAUGH, JAMES D, JORDAN, DENNIS E, L.VNNON ,AND FR,\NKLIN McCVRTY, 
1908 
REUNION REGISTRANT FRANK X. CULL, 

1909 
REUNION REGISTRANT 
A. T, MERTES, 

1910 
REUNION REGISTRANTS CLAUDE A, SORG AND ,M. HARRY MILLER, 

1911 ^"^ '^- Steers 
' " • 105 .S. LaSalle St. Chicago 3, Illlnoi.'; 
REUNION REGISTRANTS EDWARD L, FIGEL AND FRED STEERS. 

1912 
REUNION REGISTR,4NTS BENEDICT J, KAISER, DONNELLY MC­DONALD, F. L. MENDEZ, PHILIP PHILLIP AND EDWARD J, WEEKS, 
in Chicago who is a flight attendant for Western 
1913 P^"! K- Byrne 
.-Urlines. 
" ' Box 46 

JOE LaFORTUNE, 1201 First National Bank Notre Dame, Indiana Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma, is married, and has four children and sixteen grandchildren; he is an oil 
REUNION REGISTRvVNT 

operator, semi-retired, and pla\-s lots of golf; he WILLIAM COTTER, SR. is a Notre Dame Trustee, and we all know u-hat a great benefactor he is of our Universitv. REV. VINCENT -MOONEY is the pastor of the 
191 4 ^°" O'Neill 
Immaculate Conception Church, Canton, Ohio. 
1350 No. Black Oak Drive 

TI.M GALVIN, 5231 Hohman Avenue, Hammond, South Bend 17, Indiana Indiana, has a son Tim, Jr., who will be a junior in the College of Commerce next September, and REUNION REGISTR..VNTS a son Patrick, who will enter the College of Arts and Letters as a sophomore; Tim is still 
CHARLES VAUGHAN, R,\Y MILLER,TWOOMEY practicing law in Hammond. 
CLIFFORD ^\ND WALTER CLE.\IENTS. 
E.M.MET .MULHOLL^VND operates from 1014 Security Building, Long Beach 2, California. 
1915 J'""'^ ^- Sanford 

LOU KEIFER runs the Tribune-Star in Terre 1429 W. Farragut Avenue Haute, Indiana; his son, Lou, Jr., N. D. 1950, Chicago 40, Illinois w*a5 married May 4 and lives at Cocoa Beach, 
Florida, and is working for North American Avia­tion, Inc. 1916 Grover F. Miller FR<\NK (BUCKY) ^^•ELSH is married and has 
612 Wisconsin Avenue 
a daughter Katherine and a granddaughter, Carol Shrell; he may be reached at John F. Stafford 
Racine, Wisconsin 
and Company, 88 Pleasant Street, Fall River, Massachusetts. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

DR. PAUL WOOD, 23 Cogens Avenue. High­^^^LLH.M E. BR,\DBURY .\ND land Falls, New York, was a special student in PATRICK MALONEY. 1912 and 1913; his record may be found in Who's 
Who in Business. BOB CARR is practicing law; lie has a 20 year Cr\SEY KR.\JEWSKI is an architect; his new 
old son in the Air Force at Sedalia, Missouri. address is 175 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago Bob lives at 6171/2 Columbus Street, Ottawa, 4, Illinois. Illinois. 
EDGAR KOB.VK, 341 Park Avenue. New York 

RAYMUND F. Mc^VDAMS, 810 South Greemvay 22, New York, will celebrate his 41st wedding Drive, Coral Gables, Florida, has lived in Florida anniversar>' on June 10. since 1925 and loves it; he has a daughter living ED L. MOLONEY is president of the Cheboygan 
TERRE HAUTE—President John Murphy presented the Notre Dame Club's individual "Outstanding Schultean Award" to Richard O'Leary. The award is based on citizenship, sportsmanship and scholarship. A larger plaque similar to that presented to O'Leary was given to Schulte High School. The L. G. Balfoiir Company (Attleboro, Mass.) designed 
and produced the Bnished plaques. . 
State Savings Bank, 316 North Main Street, Che­boygan, Michigan; he organized the Top of Mich­igan Notre Dame Club in 1936; he u-as a major in World War I; he is a member of the Small Business Commission. 
.MRS. ED CARLTON, 295 Dennison Parkway. East, Corning, New York, advises me that her husband Ed died suddenly April 18; he was as­sociated with the Ingersoll-Rand Company; Mrs. Carlton tells me Ed always,regretted not returning to Notre Dame for some of otir famous Jtme re­unions; their son is a pilot for the Far East Command of the Air Force. 
JOE McGRATH, 237 North Bent Road, Wyn-cote, Pennsylvania, has a married son, N. D. 1951, who is Hnishing his third year at Temple Medical School. 
Edward J. McOsker 
1917 
2203 Briarwood Road dcTeland Heights 18, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTR.ANTS 

JOHN B.-\CZENAS, CARLETON BEH, JAMES BOLAND, REV. FRANK BROWN, STAN CO­FALL, CHARLES CORCORAN, OSCAR JOHN DORWIN, JOSEPH FLYNN, PAUL FOGARTY, BILL GR,\DY, RAYMOND GRAHA.M, JOHN GUENDLING, DANIEL HILGARTNER, JR., RAY HUMPHREYS. BILL KENNEDY, FRANK KIRKLAND, ALBERT KRANZ, FRED MA­ILVFFEY, rVO McELROV, JAMES McMAHON, 
E. J. .McOSKER. PAUL MEIFELD. JOHN MIL. LER, W. CRIM O'BRUN. DR. LED D. O'DONNELL. HUGH M. O'NEILL. JOHN U. RILEY, LEON RUSSELL, HARRY SCOTT, GEORGE SHANAHAN, ELMER TOBIN, MAT­THEW TRUDELLE, LEO VOGEL, BERNARD VOLL AND LA^VRENCE AVELCH. 
From the Altmini office: Former Michigan governor, HARRY F. KELLY, who is now a justice of the State Supreme Court, recently received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the University of Michigan. 
1918 George E. Harbcrt ' ^. ' ** 500 Rock Island Bank Bldg. Rock Island, lUinoa 
I P I O Theodore C Rademakcr Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana 
1 990 James H. Ryan ' ^** ' 107 Magec Ave. Rochester 10, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANT SHERWOOD DKON. 

1921 ^^ ^- D<^r 
•'* ' 1101 N.B.C. Bldg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANT DAN W. DUFFY. 

JA.MES E. .MURPHY was recently elev-ated to the .Appellate Courts Di\'ision in Connecticut. 
Gerald A. Ashe 

1922 
39 Cambridge S t Rochester 7, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

HUNK .ANDERSON, GERALD "KID" ASHE, FR.\NK BLASIUS, FRANK BLOEMER, GERALD BRUBAKER, EDWIN BYRNE, PIERRE CHAM­PION. J. RALPH CORYN. DANIEL M. COUGHLIN, CHARLES CROWLEY. JOHN PAUL CULLEN, JEROME DKON , FRED DRESSEL, REV. GEORGE FISCHER, CS.C , ROBERT GALLOWAY, ED GOITRY, D. C. GRANT, VINCENT HANRAHAN, JOHN HART, BRUCE HOLMBERG, JOHN HUETHER, AARON HUGUENARD, JAMES JONES, RAYMOND KEARNS, EUGENE KENNEDY, GEORGE KERVER, PHILIP KILEY, O. J. LARSON, LEO LOVETT, PAT MANION, TOM McCABE, B. J. .McCAFFERY. J. FRANK MILES, THOMAS OWENS, PAUL PADEN, ED FFEIFFER, PAUL PFOHL, ROBERT PHELAN, WALTER SHILTS, JIM SHAW, .MORGAN SHEEDY. MARK STOREN, A. HAROLD WEBER AND C. A. WTNNE. 
109 3 Louis ^- Bruggner *'* 2165 Riverside Drive South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

LOUIS BRUGGNER, REV. JOHN J. CAVA­NAUGH, C.S.C., JOHN CHAPLA, GUS DESCH, ARTHUR GAR\'EY, ROGER KILEY, RICHARD .N'ASH, GEO. O'GRADY, ED SHEA ASD CLIF­FORD WARD. 
MAKE IT A DATE IX '58 June 6 to 8, 1938 33lh Reunion, Class of 1923 

President JACK NORTON having called a meet­ing of officers of the Class of 1923 for Saturday, June 8, plans arc already underway for a bigger-than-ever Reunion a year later. Members of the class arc asked to read their news-letter for more details. 
109 4 James R. Meehan 
South Bend 10, Indiana 
REUNIO.V REGISTR,V.\TS 

THO.\I.\S COOKE, J.\MES MEEH.AN ASD . JI.M SWIFT. 
JA.MES D. HURLEY, LaSalle (111.) attorney has been elected national president of Tc Deum International at a convention in Omalia, Nebr. This is a Catholic organization which features the Catholic viewpoint on national and international issues. 
1925 J°^ P- Hurley '^^ 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
REUNIO.V REGISTRANTS 

BILL MOLONEY, EV KOHL. JIM ARMSTRONG, DON MILLER AND JERRY MILLER. 
From the .Alumni ofltcc: 
TOM CARFAGNO recently nsiied in Cuba and stopped to sec JOE FITZPATRICK. 
192 A Rudolph A. Goepfrich 
• '*'*' 1109 N. Cleveland Ave South Bend 28, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANT 
J. ARTHUR HALEY. 

Vour bt'crctar>' quickly learned that cvcr^'body in the class likes to read the class notes in the Alumnus but vcr>- feu- like to lake the time to send in news. I also noticed that some of the classes were able to present a lot of it. In following this up, I called on "LOU" BUCKLEY, who is doing 3. swell job as secretarv* of the '28 class. He suggested the questionnaire which I recently sent out. Here arc sonic results: 
WILLIAM "WADE" SULLIVAN, of Algona, Io«-a, an AB at Notre Dame spent a year at the Uni\'crsily of luwa Law Scliool. He is now postmaster at the olc home town of Algona. He is also a director in the Security State Bank in .'Mgona. ,:\stde from these business interests he is the owner and manager of two farms. (A gentle­man-farmer, I'd say.) Wade was married on July 2, 1931 and has two daughters. Sheila, 21 and Molly, 18. Sheila graduates from St. >far>*-of­thc-Woods with a B.S. in Elementary Education in June 1957 and %\ili teach in the public scliool s>'5tem in Minneapolis. Molly graduates from Algona High School in ^(ay 1937 and is entered at Loretta Heights College for Women in Denver, Colorado. AVade is a member of tlie Chamber of Commerce and president of the Algona Country Club for two terms; he has been a director of tills club for 15 years. He sees HAROLD P. KLEIN, %'ice president Towa-DesMoines National Bank and casts aspersions at his golfing. Harold has a son at Notre Dome. AVadc saw DENNY O'NEILL when he was tlie speaker at the Com­mencement Exercises at St. Mary-of-the-\Voods. Also saw WxVLTER TOUISS.-VNT, '28 and JUDGE HOWARD, '23 of Indianapolis. Wade would like to hear from DAS BILVDY. 
RIGHT REV. .MONSIGNOR WILLIAM DEMP­SEY GREEN, whose home u-as in Burlington, Iowa while he attended Notre Dame is now doing im­portant work in his home state. After Notre Dame, in 1930, he received M.A. and S.T.B. degrees from Catliolic University, Wosliington, D. C. and from Columbia University in 1940. Apparently he is doing double duty as Pastor of St. Philomena's Cliurcli in Dubuque and as Editor and General Manager of "Tlie Witness," Archdiocesan news­paper. 
MEREDITH HENRY DOYLE, from Menominee, Michigan, received his L.L.B. at Notre Dame. He spent three years, 1921 to 1924 at tlie Uni­versity of Michigan, ^fercdith is not married. xVt present he is State Court Administrator and his business address is Tlie Capitol, Lansing, Micliigon. Before his present position he was prosecuting at­torney, Menominee county in 1933 and 19W, assist­ant attorney general of the State of Micliigan, 1941 to 1953, special legal adWsor to the governor of Michigan (Honorable Harry F. Kelly) 1945, and took his present position on November 1, 1953. 
"Wc were saddened to learn of the death of \aCrOR W. LaBEDZ on January 22, 1957. We sent condolences of the class to Mrs. LaBcdz and arranged to have a Mass said for the repose of his soul. 
FRANCIS A. KLEIN, who came to Notre Dame from St. Louis, Mo., is back tliere now and is Book and Music editor of the St. Louis Globe-Democrat. He was married on August 6, 1929 and has a son, RICHARD KEITH, 26 years old, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1952. Richard is now in the advertising department of the American Investment Co., Clayton, Mo. To the question about whicli of his classmates he hears from he answered: "They must all be dead; no word for years from any of 'em." Let's show Frank we're not all "daid" yet. He would like to hear from "DOUBLE 1" PROBST. 
CHxVRLES P. AURGUET, B.S..M.E., came to Notre Dame from New Albany, Indiana, down on the Ohio river. He is now President of the New Albany Box and Basket Company^ -manufacturers of all kinds of fruit packages and baskets. Charlie was married in June, 1932, and has three cliildren, 
C. Patrick, 24; Mary Ann, 23 and Margaret, 21. Pat got a BA . in Business Administration from Bcllermine in 1953 and is now witli Charlie in the basket business. He stes ANDY CONLIN, ROGER NOLAN and DOC GLEASON occasionally. We missed you at the last reunion, Charlie. Hope to see you there in '61. 
JOSEPH STANLEY DIENHART was at Notre Dame from 1922 to 1925 and camcs from Lafayette, 
OREGON—Guests at the Universal Notre Danie Night dinner included, from left to right: Rev. Thomas McMahon; Rev. HoH*ard Kenna, CS.C, president of Portland University; Hon. Frank Lonergan, '04, 'Man of the Year'; club president Hugh Lacey, Jr.; Rev. John T. Biger, CS.C; and Rev. Arthur Hope, CS.C, guest speaker. 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY—New officers of the '55, secretary; Robert K. Griffin, *45, v president; and John H. 

Intl. He left Notre Dauic m 1925 and wurked In Washington, D. C. for two years. In 1928 he received his B.S. in Business Administration from Butler Univenity, Indianapolis. At present he is assistant director of athletics, assistant football coadi, assistant basketball coach and business man­ager of the golf course at Purdue. Joe married Martha Alice McCoua in Indianapolis on June 29^ 1929. They have two daughters, Joanna Marie (Dieitliert) Mahoney, 24, Margaret Suanna, 18 and one grandson, Anthony Joseph Mahoney. Joanne graduated in Home Economics from Purdue In 1954 and *'Susie** is attending Indiana University. Joe is a member of the Elks Lodge, Phi Delta Theta Fraternity, Blue Key Honorar>' Fraternity, National Football Coaclics Association, National Basketball Coaches /\ssociation and Lafayette Chamber of Commerce. Joe Is the author of a college textbook. *'An Approach to Better Officiating,*' copyrighted in 1956 and published by the Purdue University Printers. His roommates at N. D. were CLEM CROWE and CH^VS. "CHUNK" MURRIN. He would like to hear from them and others. Ac­cording to Joe, Clem is head coach at Vancouver, It. C , in the Canadian Football League. He also said that JIMMY "RED" GLYNN of Indi­anapolis called him on the phone last fall and said: "It's sure good to hear your voice and talk with you, as I just heard 10 minutes ago that you were killed In an air accident In Northern Indiana." Happily, this was a false report. 
>VILLIAM L. DERG.\N, originally from Tcrre Haute, Ind. is now a sales correspondent with the Linde Company, Chicago. He ^vas married in 1938 and has two cliildrcn 16 and 14. Bill at­tended the University of Dayton before he came to .V. D. He would like to hear from HOWARD WEIMERSKIRK, his roommate. 
On a recent trip, while In Akron, Ohio, I called FOREST J. SWART2. On the day I called. Forest was coming down with the flu; also, he had just lost his father, J.V., at the age of 87. We had quite a nice chat. Forest is now acting presi­dent, general manager and treasurer of the J. V. Su'artz Company, a wholesale confectioner>* which his father founded. He Is also a director in the Burkhardt Consolidated Co. of Akron, a company run by ^VM. G. BURKHARDT, »35. He was married in Aug. 31, 1932 to Helen Louise Moore, who he sa>'s "is still the boss." They have three children, LIndc Ann, 17; Nanc>* Ann, 13 and John Charles, 8. LInde Ann graduates from Buchtel High this year and will attend college next. Forest is a trustee of the Akron Rotary Club and is very 
club include, left to right: William S, Valus, 
ice-president; Francis J. Kowalski, '46, D>vyer, '54, treasurer. 
active in marine navigation, whicli he follows as a hobby. In 1940-41 he was commander of the Akron Power Squadron, a unit of the United States Power Squadron. Presently he Is instructor of Marine N^avigation (Celestial), and of Ad\'ance Piolting for the Akron Power Squadron. 
DR. BERTR/VND D. COUGHLIN came to Notre Dame from Faribault, Minn., and after receiving his B.S. degree, went on to the St. Louis University Scliool of ^fediclnc where he got his M.D. degree in 1931. He Is practicing In St. Louis, with Proctology as a specialty. Bert ^vas president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis In I&IO, was an instructor In surgery at St. Louis Uiuvezsity School of Medicine and president of the St. Louis Proctological'Society. He has had several articles on Ano rectal Fistula published in medical journals. Bert was married on October 24, 1936 and has three fihUdren, Barbara, 17; Daniel, 16 and Blanche, 13. His roommates at N. D. were FATHER BERNIE COUGHUX, (who did such a marvelous job at our last reunion), and BOB OORAN. Bert reports that Bob has a daughter, Susan, attending Maryvllle College in St. Louis. 

MILES J. RYAN Is a real estate broker in his home town of Cleveland, Ohio, and is with Memphis Realty. He was married in 1939 and has one daughter, Susan, 16. 
A. a (AL) VEUE, B.S.E.E.. of Buffalo, N. Y., took post graduate studies at University of Buffalo in 1928 and at Columbia University in 1941. At present he is electrical engineer and member of the technical staff of Bell Telephone Laboratories in Ne^v York City and Murray Hill, Ne\v Jersey. He is living in Summit, New Jersey. Al ha; compiled quite a record of military service: 1— Consultant for Air Force on Distant Early Warning (DEW) Line; 2—Consultant for U. S. Signal Corps for Communication Systems; 3—Consultant for U. S. Navy on Undenvater Systems. Al was married to Marion McCIusky in 1928. They have four children: Mary Ann, 25; Yvonne, 21; Albert, 19, and Jeaa­nette, 12, and two grandchildren: Colleen, 4 and Clancy, 2. Mary Ann graduated from St. Eliza­beth's College, New Jersey in 1950. Yvonne is attending Sexton Hall University, New Jersey, and .-Ubert, Prondence College, Rhode Island. 
ARTHUR H. "ART" SUDER is the proprietor of "Suder the Florist," in his home town of Toledo, Ohio. Art is also North Central .vice president of our class; if you fellows in tliis section have any trouble getting good football tickets—you know who to see! Art was married at Notre Dame on Oct. 10, 1931. He has three children. Carol, 24; William, 21, and Mary Susan, 9. Carol graduated from the University of Toledo In 1955 and Is now secretary to the vice president of Libby-Otvens-Ford Fibers. William is a floral designer and is working with his dad. Art says he belongs to the 
WICHITA—Father Joyce ^vas the club's guest speaker on Universal Notre Dame Night. Left to right: Dr. Bernard Crowley, '28, president; Father Joyce; LawTcnce Weigand, '26, toastniaster; and Ed McKenna, '27, vice president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
ROCHES!EK—Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C^.C, principal speaker for the club*s UND 
Night dinner with *Man of the Year' 

usual organizations: K. of C , Holy Xame Society, fraternal and bovvHng^ organizations, etc He seldom hears from Notre Dame men other than those living in Toledo. He \^'ould especially like to hear from GEORGE HARTNETT, GERRY McDERMOTT, etc Art reports: "BUTCH HAECKER, *25 calls on the telephone once a year when he goes through Toledo to a convention In Chicago. DUTCH 0*DAY used to stop in before he got fat and rich. Guess he is spending his time behind a desk these days instead of being on the road. JOHN HURLEY, the traveling Mr. Notre Dame keeps me informed of Notre Dame men and Notre Dame activities with his many trips around the Middle West. BOB ANDREWS of Elkton, Maryland always calls when he Is in town and we have a good time rehashing all the old days. RAY DURST is the best czorrespondent of our class. Wc all hear from him by card. We all look for­'U'ard to those five-year, all-out wing dings. I will say it doesn't take as much to poop out the old gang as it used to about thirty vears ago." 
JOSEPH A. B.AILEY, originally from Gar>-, Ind.. 

 Tom O'Connor, '16, and Mrs. O'Connor. 
is now an attorncv- in Chicago and lives in Park Ridge, 111. He was married in October, 1941 and has three children: Julie Anne, 15; Jane Anne, 12, and Joseph A., 11. 
GERALD W. MORSCHES, owns the Lalimc>xr-Morsclies Insurance Agency In Fort Wayne, Ind., his home town. He was married on April 30, 1930. Children, David F., 26; Robert W.. 22, and Ann, 
20. Robert graduated from Notre Dame in 1956 and as of May 2, 1957 is an ensign in the U. S. Navy. Gerry is a board member of the public library- of Fort Wayne, a trustee In St. Vincent's Church, past president of the Fort Wayne Insurance agents and has held various positions in the Indi­ana Association of Insurance Agents. 
GEORGE P. 0*D.\Y of Chicago Is an LL.B. who branched out into the manufacturing Industry. He Is vice president of the James B. Clow & Sons, Inc., manufacturers of cast iron pipe, valves and fire hv-drants. He is also a director in this com­pany, and In the Eddy Valve Company, ^Vaterford, New York and the loiva Valve Company, Oska­loosa. Iowa. George is a member of the board of governors. Water and Seu-age Works, Manufac­turers Association and secretary-treasurer of the Phil O'Keefc Chevrolet Co. of Downers Grove, III. He v%-as married in 1927 and Daniel, 17; Mrs. Robert O'Neill, 26, and Mrs. John Kcndlcr, 26, are his children. He has three grandcliildren: Colecn, 4; Robert, 3, and Kevin, 1, O'Neill. His son, Daniel, will enter Notre Dame in 1957. 
JOSEPH W. QUINLAN, who came to Notre Dame from Fort Ba>'ard, New Mexico, Is plant extension engineer for the Indiana Bell Telephone Companv In Indianapolis. He has two clilldrcn, Sheila, 20 and Marcia, 19. 
ROBERT F. CAREY, of Chicago, Is an attorney in the firm of Castle, Brintlinger and Carey In Chicago. He is president of the Carey Brick Co. and managing director, Hawthorne Race Course. (Good place to get some hot tips, fellas). He also Is a director in the Citizens National Bank and tlie National Bank of Austin. Bob was married on Aug. 29, 1928 and has a real nice family: Ann Jean, 27; Helen, 25; Thomas, 23; Robert, 21; Judy, 19, and Anthony, 12. Ann Jean graduated from Trinity College, Washington, D. C. in 1951; Thomas from Notre Dame in 1953; Robert from the University of Illinois, and Helen from Dun­barton College, W^ashington. Judy Is attending Loretta Heights College in Denver and Is in the Class of '60. Jean is marned, Thomas is In law scliool, and Helen is a secretary. 
ALFRED C. NACHTEGALL has a degree in .Architectural Design. He v^'as from Grand Rapids. Michigan. Al apparently is following his cliosen profession, as is his son, James. ^VI has the 
A. C. Nachtegall Company, handling design of bank and office interiors, fixtures and equipment contracting. He was married on June 20, 1928 to Mary Agnes Dunne and they have three cliildren, James 28, Ann, 26, and Mary, 23. James gradu­ated from Notre Dame in I95I with a B.S. in .Architecture, and is now with Eero Saarinen, an architectural firm In Birmingham, Mich. Mary, who graduated from Michigan State Is now teach­ing 3rd grade In an elementary school. Ann graduated from Miclilgan State In 1952 and mar­ried THOMAS E. LEONARD, '52. They have three children, Michael, 3; Mary Ellen, 2, and Joan, 1. (Bet AI has some fun uith three Notre Dame and two Michigan State rooters in his family!) 
GEORGE HOWARD DOL.\UGE, M.D., from Buffalo Center, Iowa, graduated v*ith a B.A. from Notre Dame. Aften\*ards, he attended the University of Iowa in 1926-27 and 1933-37. He got his master's degree in 1929 and his doctor's degree in 1937. He now has a private practice In .Alamogordo, New Mexico as phv-sician, specializ­ing In eyes. He was married In 1936 and has three children, John, 17; Ann. 14, and Edward, 11. George served in the U. S. Medical Corps 1942 to 1945, 
PrrrSBURGH—^AU past presidents of Notre Danie Club of Pittsburgh were honored guests at the UND Night dinner. Eighteen past presidents were in attendance. From left to right, seated: Leo Vogel, Sr., John Briley, Fritz Wilson, guest speaker Father Mendez, Father Brennan,- Jack Sheedy, Earl Brieger and Leo Vogel, Jr. Standing, left to right: John Riordan, Judge Hugh Boyle, Hugh Gallagher, H. Carl Link, J. Vincent Burke, Bill Ginder, Gene Coyne, Bob Fulton, Jack Monteverde, Larry Smith and Joe Bach. 
TULSA—Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president, was the principal speaker at the club*s Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. From left to right: Robert M. Siegfried; Father Joyce; Joseph LaFortune, who provided the funds for the LaFortune Student Center on campus and who has been a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees for many years; Rev. James Norton, C.S.C., vice-president of student affairs; Joseph L O'Neill, Jr., immediate past president of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation; and Robert D. Sheehan (behind O'Neill). 
BERNARD K. WINGERTER, wlio hailed from Xcwark, X. J. is now sales manager for the Elect ro-Motive Division of the General Motors Corp. in New York City. He lives in South Orange, N. J. "Wink" was married on Oct. 4, 1938 and has five children: John, 16; Michael, 9; /Vnthony, 1; Mar)*, 12, and Sheila, 11. 
JAMES R. WALDRON is in business iii his home town of Newark, N. J. and living in ^^ont­dair, X. J. Jim is treasurer in the firm of Edward 
M. WALDROX, Inc., a building contractor and construction firm. He was married on Oct. 12, 1931 and has three children, Joanne, 23; ^far>* Ellen, 21, and Jim, Jr., 20. Joanne graduated from Chestnut Hill College in 1953, Mary Ellen from Mount St. Vinccnt*s in 1957. Jim, Jr. is In the Class of '58 at X'otrc Dame. Joanne is working as a chemist. 
FRANCIS BERNARD HURLEY, from Ponca, Nebraska, is now practicing law there and is an abstracter. He was married on June 28, 1934. Children: Edward Bernard, 22; Sheila, 14, and Linda. Edward is in the army." 
BROTHER VICTOR CZERWINSKI, CS.C. was born on Oct. 10, 1881. He lists his dates of at­tendance at Xotre Dame as 1910 to 1933. He received his A.B. in 1926 and his M.A. in 1933. He attended DePaul and Loyola 1923 to 1926. At present he is teaching in Holy Trinity High Scliool, Chicago. He was principal there from 1934 to 1940. He has been teaching in high schools since 1910, almost 50 years. Tliis means that most of his work for degrees was done during the summers. (Congratulations, Brother, on your perseverance, may God bless you.) 
ARTHUR J. KLISE, from Lancaster, Ohio is now president of Kemrow Company, crude oil and natural gas producers, of Wooslcr, Ohio. Art was married on Sept. I, 1951. Art would like to hear from ED LYNCH, JOE HEMPHLING and RAY DURST. 
WARD H. LEAHY, ulio came to Notre Danic from Albany, N. Y. is now living in Yonkers, 
N. Y. At present he is director of car reporting for the New York Central Railroad, New York City. He is involved in the use of electronics and autoniatiun in recording freight car movenienl!.. He attended Hur\'ard Graduate School in 1928. On Nov. 29, 1929, Ward married Anne Welch and they have two daughters and five grandchildren. Laureen. 25 is marrird to Tliomas Dcmay and ihev- have Thomas 5, Timothy 4, James 3, ^lichael 

2. and Laurie 1. Diane b graduating from ^liami University and will be married on June 8, 1957. 
HENRY H. REH.M is in the Steinmar Hardware Co. of Lancaster, Pa. In 1948 he graduated in Business .-Vdminist ration from Lancaster Business College. He str\ed in the U. S. Army from 1942 to 1945. He is single and is liWng with three single sbters, one of them an inx-alid for over eleven years. He is ver>- active in the La>-man's Retreat League of the Diocese of Harrisburg and is currently attendance chairman. He is also active in the Boy Scout movement as well as other organizations. He was president of the St. Joseph Holy Xame Society in 1953-54; /Vssistant Commis­sioner, District Lancaster County Council, Boy Scouts of America in 1949-1954; secretary-, Parish Conference St. Vincent de Paul Society; first Wee commander, Lancaster Post 1192, Catholic War Veterans, now; lecturer. Council 867, 1935-41; warden, above council 1941-42; recording secretary-, St. Joseph*s Catholic Club 1933-39; vice president, 1939 to 1941; director of athletics, 1946-47; director of public relations, 1947-51; many offices in Boy Scouts since 1927; Silver Beaver award for dis­tinguished ser\*icc to boyhood in 1954; citation for 30 years' ser\^cc to scouting in 1957; chairman of Programs Committee of Holy Xame Society, 1932 to present; executive committee of Catholic Forum, Harrisburg. Club. Henry says: "Retreat work does take most of my time from July 19 until Labor Day, plus speaking engagements throughout the year on the subject of Retreats." Also, planning for 1961, when I hope to get out for our 35th Reunion. I have not been back to school since 1931, and as Father Ca\'anaugh told me last week, I'll need a compass and a guide." 
CHARLES M. DOUGHERTY is Director of Motor Vehicles in the Commonwealth of Pennsyl­\i*ania. His oIHce is in the state capitol, Harris­burg. Other business interests are investment banker and security salesman. He w*a5 married on June 24, 1939 and has one daughter, age 16. Past offices arc: Democratic committeeman, Phila­delphia, 1928-1941; administrative officer for Federal government, 1941-1955. He has served two terms as director of motor vehicles, 1935 to 1955 and 1940 to present. His publications include numerous articles in automobile trade magazines concerning Bureau of Motor Vehicles, Pa. (If any of you classmates get an overtime parking ticket in Penn­sylvania, see Chuck.) Charles says he sees JOHN KELLY, attorney, Philadelphia, and A. V. CA­PANO, member of state legislature occasionally. 
RIGHT REV. MONSIGNOR JOSEPH B. TOOMEY, whose home was in Binghamton, N. Y., spent 1931-33 at Fordham University in the Grad­uate School of Social Service. He is now in Syractisc, N. Y., and is director of Catholic Char­ities and pastor of St. John the Evangelist Church. He has also held many other important offices, including, president. National Conference of Catholic Charities; moderator. National Council of Catholic Nurses; president. New York State Con­ference on Social Work, and first vice president. Catholic Hospital .Association. (I'm sure I speak for the class when I say we are grateful for the fine moral support which Monsignor Toomey gavx to us during our 25th Reunion in 1951.) 
JOSEPH C. HYLAND, originally from Penn Yan, N. Y., is now secretary to the General Analine and Film Corp. in New York City. As a secondary business, he has practiced law for years. Joe is married, he says his wife Is "very much alive" and they have three boys, Alike, 20; Pete, 16, and Stephen, 12. Michael graduates from Notre Dame this year. Joe says: "K. WINGERTER is in my office building and JIM D^VYER is a few-blocks away. I sec them occasionally and they're stilt young in spirit if not in appearance. Saw JACK ADAMS in Grand Central not long ago. Otherwise, my meetings with N. D.'ers arc not easy to recall. I haven't lost interest, but I must say that it becomes harder as the years go by to 'rouse myself enough to attend local club meetings." (Aren't we all?) Joe would especially like to hear from RED CONROY. 
A. V. CAMPANO came to Notre Dame from Yatesboro. Penna. He prepped at St. Vincent 
Attornev.  lySy-W': Sfcrelar>­  to  Congie^snian  Fur­ tral  Railroad,  X. Y. He would  like to hear  from  
long.  1943-44;  State  Representative  1947-49.  1953­ GEORGE  HARTXETT,  JI.M  RO.VAN  and  
55. 1955-57,  1957-?: Grand  Knight,  K. of C ,  five  "DUTCH"  O'DAY.  

RICHARD V. BLAKE, '13 

One of the leading authorities on real property law in New York State is Richard V. Blake. '13, chief counsel for the Title Guarantee and Tnisi Company,. BrookKn, N. V. .After re­ceiving a bachelor of arts degree from Notre Dame, he \vas awarded a bachelor of laws degree from the Indi­ana College of Law in 1914 and also the degree of master of laws one year later. 
Mr. Blake i^racticed law until 1923 in Hartford. Conn., and then moved to New York City. He lectures on real property law at the bar associations and law colleges in the New York area and has written many articles on this subject in law school magazines. 
He was a close fnend of the late Knute Rockne. 
Mr. Blake is married and is the father of two boys and two girls. One daughter. Sister Joseph -Ancilla. is a member of the St. Joseph Order and is on the faculty of the Sacred Heart Academy at Hempstead, L. T. Another daughter died several yeai-s ago. His current address is 186 Remsen Street. BrookK-n. N. Y. 
Coilcjie 'tin 1922, got Iiis, A.B. at Xotrc Daiiic in '26 and then lii> LL.H. fiom Groiirctown Uni­versity in '28. Ills lioiiie and business is in Donora, Pa. and he is an attorney and a rep­resentative in the General .Uiicnibly; aUo a solicitor, slicrifT's office. .-Xd married Jo>epliine Pajjano on July 4, 1936 and they have a danqhter ]*Iulomena, who is presently attendini* Mt. Mercy College in Pittsburgh, Pa., and will graduate in 1958. He has held numerous offices, among them, Workmen's Compensation Rereree, 1935-39; Assistant Dinrici trnns; District Deputy, three terms; member. L.O.O.M., Sons of Italy; president, Catholic Social Ser\-iccs, 1950-54; vice president, 1954-57; former president Mon. Valley X. D. Chib, and Alumni jtoard of St. \^nceni College for past seven years. A(i reports \*IXCE SOISSOX, an executive vice l)resident of West Penn Power Co. and CH.\RLES DOUGHER'n', director of Bureau of Motor Vehicles, State of IVnnsylvania, arc some of the classmates which he hears from or sees occasionally. 
JAMES n. KELLEGH.\X, who B.X.D. (before Xolre Dame) was from Gunnerson, Colorado, is, 
A.X.D. (after Xotre Dame), a consultant on Economic and Financial Public Relations in his company, the J. H. Kelleghan & Company of Chicago. Jim was married on Sept. 30, 1927 and hxs Thomas, 28; Maria, 26; Kevin, 23, and Una. 
21. TlionLis graduated from Xotrc Dame in law in 1955 and is now practicing it. Maira attended Jtarat College. Ltiyola L'niversiiy and MacMurray ;ind got her M.S. in Ps>"cliolog\- in 1953. She is presently an interne psychologist in the Chicago State Hospital. Kevin received his .-V.B. from St. Ambro/e in 1954 and h now an insurance adjustor and studying law. Una Is in her tiiird year at Marv-xiUe College, St. I.oui'.. 
GERALD (JERRY) V. McDER.MOTT is man­ager, Outdoor .Advertising Department for the Dancer-Filzgerald-Saniple. Inc.. in Xcw York City. His home is in Hart>dale. X. Y., it was in Cleve­land, Ohio, wiien he came to Xotrc Dame. Jerr\* was married on Sept. 2G. 1931 and has two children. Joan, 24. and Carol, 21. and three grandchildren. Cathy, 3|/3, John, 2 and Jane, 9 months. Joan is married .'md living in Chicago and Carol graduated in the Class of '57 from .Mar>*mount College, Tarry­town. X. Y. He occasionally sees JOE SHE.\, resident manager of the Statlcr in Xew York, and WARD 1.E.AHV, re-^earch analyist, Xcw York Cen­
GEORGE J. HAHX is in the wo(den textile business. He is executive sales manager in the Colonial Woolen Mills Co., Cleveland, Ohio. He is also an officer, director and stockholder in this company and a director in the Cleveland Elec­trical Equipment Co. George was married on May 28, 1932, he and Mrs.' Halm have a nice family: Mar>- Elizaliclh, 24; Sheila. 22; Ge<»rgc, Jr., 20, (now a sophomore at X. D.); John Xicholas, 18, (enrolled in 1957); \\'illiam H., 16, and Michael J., 6. Mar\* E. and Sheila both graduated from St. Mar\--of-the-'\\'oods. Terre Haute, Ind. One of the daughters is married and the other is teaching. Jane Ann Skelly. 7 months is a granddaughter. 
LOUIS G. FRAXKE, from Mason City. Iowa. is now assistant vice president and district sales manager of Baird and Warner, Inc., a real estate firm in Chicago. He was married on Aug. 17, 1929. Lou is a past president of the Xorth Side Real Estate Board, has been active for several years on several committees of the Chicigo Real E>taie Board and is presently a director of the Uptown Chlcaco Commission (an urban conversation urtnip^. He ^v"ouId like to hear from FRED CLE.\iE.\TS, TOXY ROX.\S, CI..\RF„VCE UVFOLLETTE, JI.M SILVER and BOB DOLEZ.\L. (Lou—If our rec­ords are correct Jim Silver is dead). Lou also reports: "X^isited AL GREEXWALD last fall in his new home in Wabash. Ind., where he has a good position with General Rubber Co. He has become a vcr\' expert rubber engineer. BILL DORG.VX h.-is recently had a fine pronuuion in the sales department of tlie Union Carbide and Carbon Co." 
CHARLES W. MUl-AXEY, who came lo .Xotre Dame from East Tioy. Wisconsin is now an executive of the Walgreen Company in Chicago. 
III. He lives in River Ffire>t. 111. (.Also past presi-
EASTERN ILLINOIS—^John Young (left) was named Man of the Year by the Eastern Illinois alumni. The presentation was made by Club President Don Fijjel. 
dent RAY DURST'S place of residence). Charles married Ellizabcth Mary McLaughlin and their chil­dren are: Kathleen Elizabeth, 16; Mary Josephine, 15; Eileen Ellen, 12, and Charles W., Jr., 8. 
WILLIAM L. FOOHEY, from Fort Wa>-ne, Ind.. got his B.S. in Ch. Eng. in 1926, his M.S. in 1927 and his Ph.D. in 1929. He is now a senior researcli chemist with E. I. Du Pont dc Nemours & Co., Inc. of Wilmington, Del., and is living in Penn's Grove, N. J. Bill xvas married on July 2, 1932 and they have three children: W. L., Jr., 22; Mary Ann, 20, and Sean, 16. W. L., Jr. is in the Class of '58 at St. John's University and Mary Ann is in the Class of '58 at the CoIIcgf of New Rochellc. 
JAMES F. DWYER, after receiving his B.A. from Notre Dame got an LL.B. from Brookl)*!! Law School in 1929. His home city was Brooklyn, -V. Y. He is living in Plandomc, N. Y. and h a partner in the firm, Satterlec, Warficid and Stephens in New York City. Jim has three chil­dren: Mary Ellen Fox, 27; ^ViIliatn Ormond, 24, and Kathleen, 17. Mary Ellen graduated from Manhattanville in 1952, is now married and has a son, Andrew Joseph Fox III, sue weelcs old. William Ormond graduated from N. D. in 1955 and is now attending the law school of St. John^s Uni­versity of Brookl>-n, N. Y. 
JAMES B. D/VNAHER, after Notre Dame re­ceived an LL.B. from Ohio Stale University in 1928. He hailed from St. Mary's, Ohio and is now an attorney at law and is chief judicial deputy. Probate Court, Cu>-ahoga County (Cleve­land), Ohio. He was married on Oct. 3, 1933 and his children arc Mary Ann, 17, and Michael Dean, 
10. Among the offices held by Jim arc: Grand Knight and District Deputy, K. of C ; chairman, U.S.O., Summit County, Ohio, four years; presi­dent, Holy Name Societies, two parishes; president, Kiwanis Club of Cleveland; vice president. City Club, Cleveland; lecturer, Akron Law School and Glex'eland Marshall Law School. Jim has had various legal articles publislicd, the most recent of which was: "Digest of Ohio Decisions for 1956," published in January 1957. He would like to hear from: FRED WHITE, LESTER LOVIER and TED RYAN. He sees CILVRLES MOONEY, 
GREEN BAY—Club President Jack A. Vainisi 

Board of Education, Cleveland, occasionally. \ULCOLM F. KNAUS received his B.S. in 
E.E. at Notre Dame, then took extension courses in various subjects at the University of Michigan. He came to N. D. from Wayland, N. Y. and then moved on to Detroit, Mich., where he is owner of Knaus-Glaser-Bowman and Henry, Manu­facturers "Representatives for Electrical Equipment. Malcolm was married in 1928. His BrsC %vife died and he remarried in 1944. His family consists of: Patricia, 26; Jean, 24; Clare, 12; James, 11, and Margaret, 8, and three grandchildren, Sally, 3; Thomas, 1, and Andrew, sLx months. Malcolm lias been very active around Detroit: president. Lion's Club, 1946; Metropolitan Council Lions Club. 1950; president, Notre Dame Club, 1942; Meadow-brook Countr>- Club, 1954; secrelar\% N. D. Club. eight years; Meadowbrook Country* Club, five years; etc., etc. President, Electrical Equipment Repre­sentatives i\ssociation in 1957. (Your secretary has had several very cnjo\*abIe visits with Malcolm in Detroit.) 
REV.- ISIDORE FUSSNECKER, O.S.B. from Cullman, Ala., received his Master's degree by attending Notre Dame during the summers of 1923-4-5 and 6. He also attended the University of Chicago and the University of ^Uabama. .At present he is assistant at Our Lady Queen of .Martyrs in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Father Fuss­neckcr is 72 years of age. One of his recent activities has been collecting money in 29 churches in Massaciiusctts, 29 in Iowa, and 3 in New Jersey for a new colored church in Sheffield, Ala. This church was dedicated on March 24, 1957. He says he has lost all contact with his classmates due to moving around from place to place. He also says: "I spent four happy summers at Notre Dome. .-MI the fathers there were very gracious to me. Father Carey had charge of Sorin Hall. I received a check for $100 from Archbishop O'Hara, of Pliiladelphia, for my colored cliurch. 1 spent much time with him at Notre Dame." 
HAROLD L. KR.\USER got his B.S. in C.E. in 1926, then his C.E. in 1931. He came from Ports­mouth. Ohio and is now highway construction field engineer, with offices in Columbus, Ohio; he lives in Chillicothe, Ohio. He was married on Oct. 4. 
 (left) and club treasurer Thomas Rougeu.\ 

(center) present *AIan of the Year' scroll to Harold Londo, '24. 
Notre Dame 
EDWARD A. BRACKEN, JR., '35 

Appointment of Edward A. Bracken. Jr., as manager of the New York region of General Motors' public rela­tions staff, was announced recently by .A.nthony G. De Lorenzo, GM vice president in charge of public relations. 
A member of the GM public rela­tions staff since 1937, Ed served ^vith Parade of Progress and Previews of Progress, traveling GM science shows, and was assistant to the director of GM public relations at the New York World's Fair in 1939. 
Between 1942 and 1946 he \vas on military leave from GM and served with the U. S. Navy as executive of­ficer on the U.S.S. Vixen. Upon re­turning to GM, he was named assist­ant regional manager in the New York public relations office. He headed the Buffalo, N. Y., region of GM's public relations staff from 1947 to 1955 and has administered special projects in GM public relations since November. 1955. Ed is married and the father of two children. 
1927 and has three children, Mary Catherine, 24: Ann Marie, 22, and Jim, 16. Mary Catherin^ received a B.S. in Nursing in 1954 and is nov* nursing at Good Samaritan Hospital in Cincinnati. Ann ^(a^ie receives a B.S. in Elementary Educa­tion from College of St. Joseph on the Ohio in 1957. Harold was chairman. Highway Functional* Group, O.S.P.E. in 1953, and a trustee, Flaget Council, K. of C , 1948-55. His publications are: "Deflection in Concrete Pavements," Highway Re­search Board, 1943, and "Piles into Rock Help Stabalize Slide Area In Ohio," Roads and Streets, Mav, 1950. Harold would like to hear from: CLE.\f SAVEENEY, BILL FOOHEY and BOB GRAHAil. He also plans on coming to our next 
Alumnus^ August-September, 1957 57' 

THEODORE (TED) P. MARBAUGH is presi­dent of Columbia CoDStruction Co., Inc. and Mar­baugh Construction Co. of Indianapolis, where lie now lives. He came to N. D, from Monterey, fnd. Tficse companies sprcializc in municipal and pri\'ate underground construction—sewer, pas and water lines. Ted was married on Feb. 3, 1932. Their children, Mars- Ann, 23. and James E., 21 are both in the family business. Mary Ann is a graduate of MarvTnount College, Tarr>"to\vn, X, Y. Ted is also president of M & D Builders Corp., and vice president of M & M Investment Corp. 
C. J. HOOLEY attended Goshen College before coming to Notre Dame. He now lives in Elkhart, Indiana and is district repre!>entative of Michigan Mutual Liability Co. He was married on Aug. 20, 1934 and has no children. 
^\1LLI.\M J. REID of Brooklyn, N. Y. now resides in the insurance cjty—Hartford, Conn. He attended Brooklyn Law School 1933 to I93G. At present he is assistant secretary*, Life, .-\ccident and Group Claims Department at the Travelers Insurance Co. and has supervision of claims in the eastern territorj' of the U. S. He is married and has one daughter, Virginia. 16. Bill would like to hear from JI.M TUOHY, JIM RONAN* and "CHUCK." MOON'EY. He also reports: "ED FALLON and JIM D\\*YER both doing well in law. Ed has a daughter; Jim a son and two daughters, one daughter married." 
M.ATTHEW A. NOL.\N is service manager, shop foreman and parts manager with the S. P. Br3dlc>' Motor Company, Studebakcr-Packard, Lincoln, Mercury dealer in bis home town of Poniiac, III. On Aug. 26, 1930 he married Mar>-Meng; they have no children. Matt has been 
B.P.O.E. Exalted Ruler, District Deputy. He 
would like to hear from C. A, ROGGE. LEHIGH VALLEY—Larrj* Wieder, left, well on the way to complete recovery from a RAYMOND J. GAFFNEY is owner, secietary-broken neck sufTcrcd in a football game last season, beams brightly as he accepts the Notre trcasurer of the Rockford Bolt and Steel Co. of 
Dame Club Award while Robert Daday, committee chairman, and Leo R. Mclntyre, chair­
Rockford, 111. He waa married in May 1937; 
children—Mary, 19; John, 17; George, 14, and man of the club^s executive conmiittce, look on. Martha, 10. Mary is a freshman at St. ^fary's. Milwaukee and John is entering Notre Dame in Sept. 1957. 
FRED E. LINK, originally from Nonvalk, Ohio is also president and director of Murray Controls Mrs. Andrew Fox, Jr. Bob published: "Is Stock spent three years in prep school at Notre Dame Corp. He married Helen Fitzsimmons on Oct. Splitting Sound?" in 1955. before entering college there. He now lives in 20, 1927 and they have two children, Barbara, 28, HAROLD P. KLEIN is vice president of the 
Dallas, Texas and is director. Facilities Planning and Robert, Jr., 24. Barbara is in the Art Depart­lowa-Des Moines National Bank in Des Moines. for the Oil Well Supply Division of U. S. Steel ment of Good Housekeeping Magazine. Robert, Jr. He also has the following offices: director, Greater 
Corp. in Dallas. Their business is manufacturing received a B.S. from Georgetown University in Des Moines Chamber of Commerce; president, and distributing oil Bcld equipment and supplies. 1954, an M.B.S. from the University of Penn­Mercy Hospital Advisory Board; director, lowa-During the war years, Fred was chief industrial sylvania in 1956 and at present is a candidate for Dcs Moines National Bank and Des Moines Cit>­
engineer of the Te.\as Division of North American an M.S. at Georgetown. Bob is a Lt. Com­Chairman of the University of Notre Dame Foun­
Aviation in Dallas. He sa>-s he "hasn't run into mander, U. S. N. R. He is a member of the dation. On Oct. 12, 1931, Harold was married to a 25-er in years." Fred was married on Dec. 15. Cardinal's Committee of the Laity, Ushers Society VVinifred L. Coakley in the Log Chapel at Notre 1945; they have no cliildren. of St. Patrick's Cathedral and the Grand Jurors Dame. Their cliildren are: JoAnn, 22; Robert J., 
ROBERT LIVINGSTON a\HlL L is a member Association. Bob sees JIM D^\'\'ER occasionally 19; William E., 16, and Kathcrine E., 14. JoAnn of the New York Stock Exchange and of the firm and reports: "Jim became a grandfather last month. graduated from St. Louis University in 1956 and 
Cahill and Bloch. He lives in New York City. Bob The mom is his older daughter, Mar>' Ellen, now is now a writer for Merchants Trade Journal, Des Moines. Robert J. is now in the College of Commerce at N. D. 
JOHN J. KELLY after a couple of years at the 
HOUSTON—*Man of the Year' in Houston is Tommy Green (2nd from left). Others in the 
U. of Penna. came to Notre Dame and received his 
photo are Don O'Brien, president; Father Joyce, guest speaker; and Larry Kcllcy. B.C.S. in '2G. In 1934 he got an LL.B. from Temple U. Law School. He now has his own attorney* practice in Philadelphia. John did a stint in the Navy 1942-46. He was married at Notre Dame on June 30, 1937 and has two chil­dren. Sheila, 19, and John, 16. Sheila is a fresh­man at Immaculata College, Iminaculata, Pa. John is a contributor to and on the editorial staff of "Tlie Shingle," the Philadelphia Bar Assodation publication. 
JAMES M. PE/\RSON, of Saginaw, Mich, when at N. D.. is now an attorney at iaw in Flint, Mich. Jim is married and has four children: Nanc>- Pearson Gloctzner, 24; James M. II, 22; Mar>' T., 16, and Kathr\'n M., 14. Nancy at­tended Micfiigan State College and studied to be a medical teclinician, at which she is now working. James attended Notre Dame for a short time then went to General Motors Institute and graduated in Feb, 1957. He Is now a service representative with a Bulck-Chevrolet dealership. Jim has been active in many affairs: former member of Flint Board of Education; assistant prosecutor of Genesee County, Mich.; First Friday Club; Elks; Notre Dame Clubs of Flint and of Detroit; vice president and president-elect of Flint Estate Planning Council; past president of St. Michaels Parish Holy Name Society and of St. John's Fenton Booster Club; president of Fenton Property Ovvners Association; active in Red Feather Fund and Flint Old News­boys. 
MARTIN B. DALY, JR., originally from Cleve­land, Ohio, is now a consultant geologist, retired, and is living in Lakrport, California. He is a director in Formax Oil Co.. Los Angeles and Oil Producer, Kentucky. He was married on June 14, 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 2957 
1930 and has Kaltileen, 14; Maureen, 12, and Patricia, 9. Martin says there arc no X. D. men in his locality. 
MARK E. MOONEY, who caine to Notre Dame from Indianapolis, Ind., now lives in West Brook­lyn, X. Y. and is vice president, Sales of Typhoon /\ir Conditioning Co., a division of Hupp Corpo­ration in Brooklyn. Mark Is or was chairman of the Central Xcw York Section of the .-\merican Society of Refrigerating Engineers: also vice chair­man of the Year Round Residential and Self-Contained Unit Section of the .-Vir Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute. He published an article in Sales Management Magazine in Sept, 1933. Mark was married on June 4. 1930. They have no children. 
VIXCEXT L. COULET, after graduating from Notre Dame took special courses in Metallurgy at Sv-racuse University in 1927 and at M. I. T. in 1934. Originally from Syracuse, X. Y., he now lives in Rock Island, III. and is sales, met. dis­trict manager with Universal-Cyclops Steel Corp. there. Vincc Is a member of the xVmcrican Society for Metals and of the B.P.O.E. He was married On .-\ug. 12. 1929 at N. D. and has a son, Alex­ander, 26 who is in the Physical Testing Laboratory of Duce and Co., Materials Engineers. Vince says: "/\s treasurer of the class, he would like to hear from all of you—check enclosed." He also reports that ROGER XOL^VX' had two sons gradu­ate from N. D. and lives in Davenport, Iowa. 
JOHN B. LE.-\HY is director of purchases for the AmphcnaJ Electronics Corp. of Chicago, III. He was married In the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on June 24, 1939. He has no children. John 
would like to hear liom PAUL (DUCKY) MILLER. GER^VLD J. McGINLEY, Irom Keystone, Ne­braska, got his LL.B. at N. D. in 1926 and his LL.M. In 1927. Now he is senior member of the law firm, McGinlcy, Lane, Powers and McGinley in Ogaltala, Xebraska. He also owns a cattle ranch and Is area representative of the Federal Land Bank of Omaha. He was married on Sow 21, 1936 at Sotre Dame, Ills wUe^s name is Ruth and they have unc daughter, Maureen, 17, who Is preparing to attend college. Some of the offices which Gerald has held are: county attorney, Keith County, Neb., 1932-36; Mayor, Ogallala, 19311-42; vice president, XVbrasfca Stock Grower's .Association, 1956 to present. He would like to hear from GEORGE (DUTCH) O'D.VY, JOHN TUOHY, JIM RONAX and STEVE PIETROWICZ. 
KENNETH E. COOK, who received his .Master of Arts degree came from London, Ontario. Before that he attended Assumption College and the University of Western Ontario, where he received his B..\. (Honor Philosophy). At present, he is Director ol Development at St. Louis University. He is active in the Catholic Youth Organization. He is also listed in the Catholic "Who's Who in America." He is editor of Chaplains Bulletin. Catholic Com. on Scouting. 1939-51. Ken was married on Aug, 20. 1935 and has four children: Josephine Patricia, 20; Roscanne M., 18; Kenneth. Jr., 14, and Eugene, 8. Josephine is an Arts sophomore at Si. Louis University. Ken would like to hear from those who took the Boy Leader­ship Courses of the Knights of Columhus FcHou­ships. He also reports: '*A. A. KIRK is living in New Brunswick, N. J. and doing a great job as national director, Catholic Relationships for Boy Scouts of America." 

STEPHEN R. PIETRO^VICZ, from Chicago, ro­turned to his home town and made use of his x\.B. in Journalism by jfctting Into the newspaper game. He is advertlsmg salesman, Financial Adver­tising for the Chicago Tribime. He is living in Wilmette, 111. Steve was married on June 20, J929 and lias S^JIy, 25; Steve, Jr., 20. and ^Vllliam, 16, and two grandchildren, Barbara, 2, and Richard, 2 months. Stephen, Jr., Is in the Class of *59 at Notre Dame. Steve would like to hear from FR.\XK BON, ED BYRNE, ROB aXHILL, etc., etc. (Tlianks for your offer to send me some news Items on '26ers.—Secy.) 
ROBERT V. (BERT) DUNNE, Is back out OD the West Coast, in San Francisco, from whence he came to Notre Dame. He is vice president, radio-TV director of Abbott Kimball Advertising x\genc>- in San Francisco. After leaWng X*. D., he did some graduate work at Harvard, Stanfoni and California- He is also Western vice president of our class, a big territory. Bert v.>as married in 1930, his wife is living and they have five children: Patrick, 27; Sally, 23; Marcy, 22; Bart, 19, and John Michael H. Their grandchildren are James and Kerry Dunne. (Pat's children and John Ama­rosa, Sally's boy, all imdcr 3. Pal finished at UCLf\, after two years at X.D.; Sally went to 
U.S.C.
 for one year; Marcy is finishing college next year at San Francisco State. Pat is assistant manager, American Linen Supply in Los Angeles. (Bert—next time you see EDDIE FALLON, Jack him up about sending In his questionnaire!) 

I.
 I. PROBST is Southern Wee president of our 



SOUTH-CENTRAL WISCONSIN—Father Joseph Barry, C.S.C., was guest speaker at the club's UND Night dinner. Seated, from left to right: Edwin Pick, toastmaster; Father Barry; and club president Paul R. Brannan. Standing, left to right: Larry Lenz, secretary-treasurer; vice-president Tom Frost; and president-elect John E. Margin, chief jiistice of the Wisconsin Superior Court. 
Class. He came to Notre Dame from New Atliens, niinois and received his B.S. in Chemical £ng. In 1930-3! he attended National University and in 1934 received a Bachelor of Law Degree from Benton College of Law. Now Izzy js an insurance adjuster with Lally Adjustmrnt Bureau in Coral Gables, Fla.; he lives in Key Biscayne, Fla. He was first married on Nov. 24, 1927; Iiis wife died in 1948. He lemarricd on July 5, 1952. Izzy's children are: John, 28; Robert, 21 j Bernard, 4, and Mary Jane, 2. Grandchildren: John, Jr., 5, and Jerri, 3. John is in the Engineering Depart­ment of the Florida Power and Light Co. in Miami. Robert is at N. D.. a Junior in the College of Commerce. Ltzy served in the Army for 2J/2 years during World War U and was .a captain in the Transportation Corps. He has held a \'aricty of offices, to wtt clerk. Committee on Claims, U. S. House of Representatives, 1929-31; secretary to State Supreme Court Justice, 1941; Civilian De­fense Coordinator, New Athens, HI., 1941; presi­dent, St. Vincent de Paul Society; St. Agnes Con­ference 1932 to present; Grand Knight of Coral Gables Council, K. of C , 1953-54; director. Catholic Charities Bureau, Dade County, Fla., 1956 to present; president. University of Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami, 1948; N. D. Foundation Chairman of Greater Miami, 1956 to present. Re­garding classmates, Izzy says: *'LEST£R J. CLARK had passed out of existence as far as we were concerned until he returned for our 30th reunion. He is now a sanitary engineer for the State of Oklahoma and lives In Oklahoma City." 
RAYMOND W. (RAY) DURST U the immedi­ate past president of our class. It flourished during bis regime due to bis untiring efforts. He u-as recently elected a director of the Notre Dame Alumni Board, a high honor. Ray*s home town while at N. D. was Waukegan, 111, and he now lives in River Forest, 111. He has held the following offices: vice president and director, Echophone Radio Coip., 1930-36; executive \ice president and director. The Hallicrafters Co., I93G-54; president and direc­tor. The Hallicrafters Co., 1955. He has retired from this position and is now handling investments on his own. He is also a director of the River Forest State Bank and Trust Co. Ray was married on Aug. 18, 1928. He and his wife, Grace, just recently rettumed from a 3 ^ month Round the World Crube on the Cunard Liner, RAIS Coronia. They \isited about 15 countries and about 25 ports. Ray says it \%'as a real grand experience. Tlicy traveled about 38,000 miles. (Hope to hear more about this later, Ray.) 

JOHN QUINCY AD^UIS, who came from, and now lives in Montclair, New Jersey, is president of The Manhattan Refrigerating Co. and Union Terminal Cold Storage Co. of New York City. His. company docs cold storage warehousmg and re­frigeration of perishable foods. John Is married and has Kathie Anne, 14, and John Quincy, Jr., 9. He has been very active in many projects as indicated by the list of important offices whldi he has held or is presently holding. Member, Presi­dent's Committee of tlie University of Notre Dame; member. Liturgical Arts SiKlcty; founder and member of the Catholic Institute of the Food Industry; founder of the Mercier Club of Northern New Jersey; former president and presently a director of the Marketmcn's Association of the Port of New York; founder and chairman of the board of directors of the Co-Ordinating Committee of tlie Food Industries; provincial governor of Scrra International; director. Manufacturer's Trust Co., 
N. Y.; diarter member of the Gregory Club of Nortliem New Jersey; founder and member of the Serra Club of Montclair; founder and vice chair­man of the St. Bernard's Vocation Study Club; member of the advisory council. Foundation for Religious Action In tlie Social and Civil Order; rice president of the Social Action Department, National Catholic Welfare Conference; committee diairman. Cub Scout Pack No. 8, Eagle Rock Council, Montclair; member of the Catholic Com­mission on Intellectual and Cultural Affairs. On October 17, 1948, John %\'as the recipient of the first Quadrogesimo Anno medal awarded by the Association of Catholic Trade Unionists in recogni­tion of his outstanding ivork in labor-management relations. 
From the Alumni office: MSGR. JOSEPH B.^TpOMEY, director of Catholic Charities for the''Diocese of Syracuse, has been presented with the Merit Award of the Central N?w York Alumni of the University of BufTalo Social Work Scliool. Msgr; Toomcy is also pastor of St. John, the E\'angelist Church. The au'ard 
was given for "outstanding accomplishments In the field of social work." 
109 7•'^ '  Steve Ronay  1125 Woodla^v-n  
South Bcnci 16, Indiana  
REUNION REGISTRANTS  

EMMETT BARRON, SEBASTLVN BERNER, JOE BOLAND, GENE BRENNAN, JOHN W. BREN­NAN, JOHN BRINKMAN, JIM BROWN, PAUL BUTLER. HUGH CUIPBELL, J. P. CANNY, JOILN CARTO.V, WILLIAM GATE, WILLIA.M CLARK. PAT COHEN, J. L. CONROY, THO­MAS CONROY. BILL OJRBETT, WILLIAM COYNE, UVWRENCE CROWLEY. JOHN DAILEY, ANTHONY DEAN, JOSEPH DELLA­iURIA, ALBERT DOYLE, TO.M DUNN. BART FAVERO, EDWARD FENLON. WILLIAM FINU­CANE, DONALD FITZGERALD, CHRISTIE FLANAGAN. NEAL GALONE, JOHN GEARY, JOHN GLASKA, C. R. COSLIN, THOMAS GREEN, JOHN GRUNING, JOILN HALPIN, RICHARD RALPIN, BILL HE/\RN, LEO HERBERT. BILL HOLLAND. JOHN HOW­ARD, BOB IRMIGER, HERB JONES, NICHOLAS KAUFFMAN. EUGENE KNOBLOCK, REGIS LAVELLE. JERRY LcSTR/\NGE, JOHN McBRIDE, HAROLD McCVBE. FRANCIS Mc-CURRIE, EDWARD McLAUGIILIN, R/\Y AUR­ELLI, PINKY MARTIN, CARL MATTHES, E. 
J. MAYER, FRANK MORAN. REV. JAMES J. MORAN. EDWARD MULLEN. DR. GEORGE M ULLCN, TOM NASH. RUSSELL NEAL. HARRY O'BOYLE. WILLIAM O'KEEFE, CIL\RLES O'NEILL, JACK PATTON, JAMES QUINN, JOHN REIDY, ClJ\RFJ4CE RUDDY, REV. HARRY RYAN, CLYDE SCIIAMEL, PATRICK SIZE, JOHN SLATTERY, ALBAN 
sMrra, RICIURD SMITH, IIORACE SPILLER, 
WILLIAM TRAVIS, JOHN WALLACE, VAN WAIXACE, TED W I £ S T AND ERNEST AVILHEL^f. 
WILLIAAf F. ROEMER, a member of the Notre Dame faculty, gave the commencement address at St. Joseph High School in South Bend on June 2. 
TOLEDO—Jim Cooney, center, Notre Dame Glass of 1893, visits with Vic Beck and his wife, on the left, and Russ Longon and his wife, right. The occasion was the Annual Commimion Breakfast of the University of Notre Dame Alimmi Club which was held on April 14th at the Park Lane Hotel following Mass and Communion at Gesu Church. 
ROY E. WENDELL, '50 
The appointment of Roy E. Wendell to direct the public relations program of the world-wide Army & Air Force Exchange Service with headquarters in New York City was announced re­cently by Maj. Gen. Harlan C. Parks, USAF, Chief of the Exchange Service. 
The Army & Air Force Exchange Service is the self-supporting system of stores and services which serve mili­tary personnel and their dependents at over 11 jOOO outlets throughout the world. 
As Chief of Information Services, Roy will be responsible for all public relations policy formulation and pro­gram development of a $1 billion a year business. 
As staff advisor in public relations matters to General Parks, Information Services reviews all management poli­cies and programs for public relations impact. 
Five years ago, when he joined the Exchange Service, Ray's principal func­tions were in writing, designing, and production guidance. Currently, he is more directly concerned with policy in his new assignment. 
He has also been active as a free lance writer with articles published in national magazines, including the Catholic Digest, Magazine Digest, Ki­wanis Magazine, and others. 
Roy, his \vife Jean, and their two daughters, Gail and Carol, reside in East Meadow, L. I., N. Y. 

19? 8 I^uis F. Buckley 
• '^ ^ 1253 North Central Ave Chicago 51, Illinois 

REUNION REGISTR/\NTS HAROLD COSGROVE AND WILLIAM DAILY. 
I wish to extend our s>Tnpathy to Judge John Lyons on the death of his father in Chicago early in Mav. ED R.\FTER, HAL REYNOLDS. TOM JOHNSON, ED McSWEENEY, and your class secretary were among those who called at the funeral home to express our sympathy. 
Congratulations to our classmate, PAT CANNY, on his election as president of the Alumni Asso­ciation. It is the first president of the Association the Class of '28 has had since TOM BYRNE scr\*cd in that capacity several years ago. 
The Class of '28 cocktail party last fall was so wcll-rrceivcd that I have arranged for another one at the Morris Inn following the Pittsburgh game on October 2S, These get-togethers give us an opportunity to meet the wives of classmates. Incidentally, I have found the wives of '28 men to be the best supporters I have of this column. Please plan lo attend this affair and bring along your wife and friends. 
I liad occasion recently to use the Tulsa telephone 

' directory and located the address of LARRY ENGI.ERT. A letter to I.^rry brought an en­thiLsiastic response. He operates the Larry Englert Drug Store at 2550 E. Admiral Place, Tuba, Okla. Larry has two daughters, ages 19 and 12 and two grandsons by a strp-daughter. Since Larry re­ceived his Ph.G. degree in 1927, he is listed -in that class, so we have not been in touch with him. Larry inquired about JOHN ANTUS, LEO Mc-INTYRE. VINCE PERIOTE, JLM SEXTON, WIL­LARD WAGNER. AL\RCUS FARRELL. STAN GRINAGER, SAM RICHARDSON. PAUL FRY, BILL PLUCHEL, GERALD SHEIBLEY and sev­eral others. Drop Larry a line urging him to re­turn for our 30*year reunion. 
DICK WEPPNER is manufacturers' represent­ative in Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, and Wash­ington. D. C.. with tlie Precision Sales Co. of Silver Spring, Md. Dick has four cliildren, ages 13 to 25 and two grandcliildren. One son is at the University of Maryland and another at Catholic University. Dick plans to attend our 30-ycar reunion. 
DR. WM. McGEE is with the Riverdale Clinic in Riverdale, No. Dakota. Bill is working under contract and private practice for the U. S. Corp of Engineers in connection with the new Garrison Dam on the Missouri River. Bill's son will be graduated at N. D. with a B.S. degree this year. His daughter is at St. Mary's 
ANTHONY BENNING is with DuPont ia Ae chemicals research division. Tony is still singlr and lives in Woodstown, N. J. 
JOHN EGAN wrote a newsy letter from « Brook Street, Wellesley, Mass., as follows: "I see AUSTIN (DUTCH) HOLLAND quite often. Hr is a very close' friend of mine. He is a manufac­turer's representative In sportswear and has three lovely children, living In Wellesley Farms not far from me. 
"JERRY CROWLEY lives in WcUesley also. He is in the insurance business and the father of two fine children. 
"CHARLIE COLTEN I see occasionally and hr is connected with the State of Massachusetts ai the Myles Standish Hospital. Charlie is the proud father of one boy. 
"I also see from time to time ED BRENNAN who lives In the ^'mountains'* (Berkshlres) ia the western part of the state. His oldest boy Is quitr a baseball player for Holy Cross. 
"DR. JOE CONWAY Is a successful practicing dentist in the neighboring tuwa of Needham. We see his family frequently. 
"SMOKEY KELLEHER is coaching hockey and teaching English at Cambridge Latin High School. 
"JOHN AfacMANMON is head of the Sute Highway Beautificatlon Dept. and has a 'thriving' fiorist business In Luwell. 
"FRANK HOLLAND viMted me from New York recently and we had a fine time reminiscing one ex-eniog. He has been transferred to Washing­ton by his employer, the Grace Steamship Lines. His family consists of two girls and one boy." 
Thanks, JOHN EGAN, for bringing us iqi to date on a number of fellows from whom we had not heard in some time. John has been married since 1930. He Is a buyer with William Filene's Sons Co. in Boston. He is also vice president of Filene's Cooperative Society. 
JIM BERRY IS a farmer and a justice of the peace near Stanley, N. Y. Jim has four children, ages 10 to 26. Jim's oldest daughter, who is a teacher, finished at Nazareth College and received her master's degree at Geneseo State Teachers College. His oldest son Is with the New York State Gas &. Electric Co. 
I noticed in the St. Paul paper where DR. BOB FOGARTY, professor of history at St. Thomas College, was appointed director of the division c4 social sciences, and that RAY MOCK, director of Placement at St. Thomas, conducted another snc-
FORT W'AVNE—Donnelly P. McDonald {second from right) was named Man of the Year in Fort ^Vayne. From left to right: Club President Tom O'Reilly; Cliff Ward, program chairman; Mr. McDonald; and Rev. Edmwid P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president of Notre Dame, guest speaker. 
oescful career festival in which 60 fimu and organ­
tzations participated and which 'was attended by 
some 20,000 students from o\xr 150 schools. 
FRANK DAVID left Yankceland to rejoin the rebels. He joined his brother Tom, *34, in his consulting engineer finn. Pan American Engineers. Frank's new address is 5711 Na^-aho Trail, Alex­ander, La. 
TOM IJWELLE sent a clipping from page 35 of the April 1957 issue of Dun's Rc\-ie%v and Mod-cm Industry which contains a picture of J. F. "SAM" DUXNE, Mill manager. Fanner's Rice Growers Cooperative, West Sacramento, California. The last time I heard from Sam he sent mc a note on his culinary creation, "Creamed Trout on Rice" He has two children, ages 9 and II. Thanks, Tom, for the clipping. I wish all class­mates w*ouId send me clippings referring to class­mates. 
VINCE CARNEY spent ilirce months this winter in Europe. He has some w-earing apparel plans for our 30-year reunion which will again set a pre­cedent for class reunions at N. D. You will recall that Vince and WILL.ARD WAGNER introduced the famous class caps at our 20-ycar reunion and the shirts and ties at our 25-ycar reunion. 
Plans arc being made for a class of '28 retreat at the new Lady of Fatima Retreat House on the campus. The group is limited to forty members. There arc individual rooms, heated and cooled, each with private toilet and shower. Chapel, lounge with library*, and dining hall with connecting kitchen, arc all in the same unit with the rooms. Dinner is ser\'ed Friday evening and shortly after the noon meal on Sunday, the retreat ends. If you are interested, drop a line to JIM ALLAN, 4750 Sheridan Road, Chicago 40; or RAY MUL­LIGAN, 111 West Washington Street, Chicago 2. 
JACK CANIZARO reports from Jackson, Mis­sissippi, that his son has been accepted at Notre Dame this fall. He will attend our 30th reunion. TROY BONNER has been elected president of the Jackson Municipal Golf Association. Troy is still with the Veterans Adminbtration in Jackson. 
BILL DAILY, Branch Manager for the Employ­ers Mutual Liability Insurance Co., who is located in Atlanta, Georgia, suggested that it would be a fitting tribute to Father Matt Walsh if the class of '28 would subscribe a sufficient amount of money for a room in the new Moreau Seminary to be designated the Father Matthe^v J. Walsh room. TTiis proposal. a« well as others, submitted for thr **Li\ing Chair" program and for a scholarship fund, are being considered in connection with our 30-ycar reunion program. 
I called at the funeral home in Chicago on May 12 to express our s>-mpathy to PAT VARA­VETO on the death of his father. Pat is an architect with Lockheed Aircraft Corp. in Burbank, California, and lives at 657 West Broadway, Glcn­dalc, Cal. We had the opportunity to meet Pat's wife and his SL\-month old baby. Do any class­mates have a younger child? Pat mentioned that he heard from Professor Kcrvick recently. Pat expects to be present for our 30-ycar reunion. 
ED RAFTER reports that he saw the following '28 men at the Chicagu-N.D. Club meeting on Universal N.D. Night: ED McKEOWN, JIM ALLAN, HOWIE PHALIN, BILL CARNEY, HAL REYNOLDS and RAY MULLIGAN. Since I was teaching a class that evening at Loyola University, it was impossible for me to attend. 
FRANK CREADON informed me of the sad news of the death of tlie wife of DON CORBETT of Roclicster, N. Y. Don has five cliildrcn, ages 7 to 20. His two older bo>'5 arc students at Notre Dame. Don was married in 1935. He practices law in Rochester and ser\'ed as a member of the Assembly in the New York State Legislature in 1934-36. I uTotc to Don extending our s>'mpathy. 

I noted that JOE BREIG's regular article in the Ave Maria was dev-oted to the subject of "TIic Sad Happiness of Grandpa" in the May 18 issue. As Joe states it, *'For a couple of years I have been the grandfather of a granddaughter. Now I am also the grandfather of a grandson." I recommended the article to my fellow grandparents in the Class of '28. As you know, Joe is assistant managing editor of The Catholic Universe Bulletin in Cleveland and is the fattier of five fihildren. Joe is also associate editor of the Family Digest and Our Lady's Digest. He is the author of five books, including "God in Our Home," *'The DcWl You Say," "My Pants When I Die," **Under My Hat," *'A Halo for Father," and ''Life with Mar>-." 
BERNIE GARBER has suggested that class­mates in the larger cities hold a '28 dinner with wii-es. These affairs could be very informal with cocktails and dinner, but no speeches, honored guests, etc The idea sounds good to me. If you ^ree, will you arrange such a get-together in your city some time soon. I am depending on the wives to make certain that action is taken on this 
ROCKFORD—^The late John J. Wahl, Jr., was posthumously named 'Man of the Year' by Rockford alumni. Left to right: Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C.; Mrs. Wahl who received the plaque honoring her husband; Rev. John Walsh, C.S.C., guest speaker; James H. Dunn, Jr.; and Thomas A. Kecgan. 




wcHTfliuinnus 
PARIS N. COWART, '34 

The cliairman of the Dade County Commission (Florida) is Fans N. Cowart. A Coral Gables account­ant, Faris has been a prominent civic leader for many years. After graduating from Notre Dame, he took special courses at Michigan State Uni­versity and also from the LaSalle Ex­tension University in Chicago. 
He not only is chairman of the Dade 

County Commissioners but he also 
serves as chairman of the Port Author­
ity Commission and Civil Defense, all 
in Dade County. 
Prior to establishing his own busi­

ness in Florida, Faris had varied ex­
perience including accountant with the 
National Dairy Products Company in 
Detroit; athletic director in the De­
partment of Public Instruction in Lan­
sing; tax representative, public account­
ant and state auditor in Lansing; 
special agent for the U. S. Department 
of Labor, Washington, D. C. 
He is state governor for the Notre Dame Foundation in Florida, director of the Greater Miami Boys' Drum and Bugle Corps, a past president of the 
N. D. Alumni Club of Miami, a past Grand Knight of the Knights of Co­lumbus, and a director of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. 
•Fans'was named Man of the Year by the Miami Club in 1952 and was recognized as "Outstanding Catholic 
. of-Florida'.' two years ago by the Na­tional Conference of Christians and Jews. He is married and the father of three girls and one boy. 
proposal. Please send me a news item with pictures 
as soon as you have held one of these get-to­
gethers in your city. 
Z hope to meet ^nth our President FRANK CREADON to make plans for our 30-year re­union as soon as I can corner him in Chicago. He has attended Metropolitan Life Insurance Com­pany meetings in New Orleans and 6al Harbour, Florida, recently and a meeting of the American Mosquito Control Association at Miami Beach. Frank talked to GEORGE COURY there. Inci­dentally, Frank's son is following in his dad's footsteps as m member of the N. D. Glee Club. Frank stUI b a member of the famous Paulist Choir in Chicago. 
Our 30-year reunion will be held on Friday, June 6, Saturday, June 7, and Sunday, June 8, 1958. Please mark your calendar accordingly and make plans to be ^vith us for a great weekend. We expect this to be even better than our famous silver anniversary reunion in 1953. Drop me a line now advising that you will attend and letting me know you are willing to help in carr>-ing out our promotional plans to assure another record breaking attendance. 
(Ed. Note: Your class secretary- was honored guest and prindpal speaker at a recent luncheon held during a two-day institute conducted by the Illinois International Association of Personnel in Employment Security and Knox College, in Gales-burg, 111. According to the Galcsburg Register-Mail, Louie was also one of the speakers on a panel session. JC) 
From the Alumni ofHce: JAMES A. ALLAN has been named third vice president of Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Com­pany and American Motorists Insurance Company. He has also ser\cd as a member of the Workmen's Compensatiou Committer: on the Industrial Com­mission of the Chicago Bar Association. He was promoted from assistant secretary of the companies to his present position. 
1929 
PHILADELPHIA—Left to right: Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, (XS.C, guest speaker on UND Night; Bart Johnson, chairman of the event; and Walt Grothaus, club president. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

GAYLORD HAAS. JOHN LAW, WALTER MUL­FLUR, OLIVER SCHELL AND CLETUS Corporation, Ft. Wayne, Ind. He is also a mem­and general manager of the New Berlin (N.Y.) SCHNEIDER. ber of the board of trustees and \*ice president Instrument Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary ol "Our Sunday Visitor'* newspaper, director of of the C. G. Conn Company, Elkhart, Ind. Mar­
From the Alumni office: 

the Ft. ^Va>'ne National Bank and active in civic ried, he Is the father of three daughters and a LOUIS F. NIEZER has been elected president affairs. son and was with various other industrial finns and vice president of the board of the Tokheim LEO A. REES has been appointed \'ice president before joining the Conn organization. 
Devcrc Plunkett MUSKEGON—Ticket Manager Bob Cabill was principal speaker at the cluVs Universal 1930 0*Shaugbncssy Hall 

Notre Dame Night dinner. Notre Dame, Indiana 
~"~ '^ 1931 James T. Doyle 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
Again the labor of love.for dear old '31. Our reunion must have taken a lot out of some of the old men of our class judging from the dearth of news during the past year. However, there are a few w*ho do manage to respond to postcards and calls for help from time to time. We never see or hear from NORBERT STARSHAK, Walgreen Drug executive in the big dty, but Mrs. Star­shak is active in helping Notre Dame High Schot^ according to an article and picture in the Chicago Tribune recently. While in the loop recently I ran into GEORGE COURY, '30 who was visiting his old haunts for a few days. George looks fine and at present is occupied with interests in Miami, Florida. 
Among the faithful '31 correspondents are JIM and Marie KfcQUAID. who by the time of publication of this column will have returned from their pilgrimage to the grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes. *'Ju5t because we didn't >%'ritc and "complain" is no reason tor you to think we didn't miss your usual wonderfully newsy column in the Alumnus. We did, but like you, we must have been just too busy to take time to drop you a line, and then too I figured )'ou had done sudi a splendid job on getting the 25th Reunion off and over with such enthusiasm you were cnjoyins a well deserved rest from the reporting. Jim asks that I thank you for the subscriptions you sent. We are terribly excited about our trip and seem to live in a constant stage of goose pimplei, 
Notrg Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 63 
half the fun is getting ready. We leave Chicago Saturday, June 8 irom Midway \-ia Pan American. We plan to dnve up to Chicago Friday morning after Mass and Holy Communion and ^sill stay o%-eniight at a motel close to the airport leanng our car there until we return. JIM ARMSTRONG has written to VINCE McALOON in Rome and Vincc has written a wonderful letter telling us he will be happy to meet us in Rome and that wc will be surrounded by *'warm Notre Dame friends.** This all souniis like a dream, Jim, and I still feel that some day I will wake up and find it Is a dream! I am rather thrilled about an arrange­ment in Lourdes. I felt that someone would be thinking of Jim while there (one of the volun­teer helpers who care for tlie sick, taking them to baths, ser\'ices, etc) so I wrote Sr. St. Patrick (whose name was given to me by Francis Cushing in Indianapolis) asking her to plan on giving me d Job to do among the sick while I was at Lourdes. I am happy to say that Sr. St. Patrick H-as happy to have extra help that week as they are expecting a very large English-speaking pilgrim­age. Incidentally. FRANCIS CUSHING is in Sunny-
side Sanitarium in Indianapolis and I am sure he would enjoy hearing from any of the bo>*s whom he knew at N. D. He made a solo pilgrimage to Lourdes last year and plans to go again this sum­mer. He has tuberculosis, but manages to remain very chceriul and we have had some wonderfully helpful letters from him about our trip. You know we feel that our "miracle" has already happened, being able to make the trip, so this will truly be a Pilgrimage of Thanksgiving. Please remember us in your good prayers, especially June 11th to 15th. We do hope you can make it down to see us off. Jim will need all the bolstering he can get for he wa& a bit apprehensix-e about Hying, but I know Our Lady will take care of him.** Our prayers go out to Jim and to Marie for a tre­mendous outstanding job she is doing for him. 
In a copy of "Broadcast** published by RCA, I saw the snuling face of JOHN FORD MEAGHER 
as one of the participants in an engineering con­ference for the 1957 NARTB Convention held in Ciiicago. No more plugs, Red, if you fail to phone the next time. EDDIE AGNEW has been one of the *31crs attending the Notre Dame Club of Chicago Monthly Luncheons held at the Western Society of Engineers on the first Monday of each month. However, he failed to show for Universal Notre Dame Night due to being snared by FRANK "TWEET" HOGAN, Drake Hotel dance band leader during our college daj's. Into attending a Loyola Fathers Club meeting the same night. Among thojc attending UND Night at the Lake Shore Club were PAUL DUNCAN, AL STEPAN, DON OTOOLE, GIL SE.VMAN, RAY COLLLNS, BEN OAKES, GENE VALLEE, TOXf CONLEY and BERT MET2GER. I drove home with LEO HODELL, *32 who is now a fellow parishioner in Evanston. I am scr\*ing my second term as treasurer of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago and am anxious to have the class of 1931 lead the classes in 1009^ payment of membership dues. If any of the local *31 men have forgotten to send their $5.00 check, please do so as soon as possible. 
MATT GARRIGAN, ever faithful Detroiicr, re­sponded to my card promptly. "Hope this reaches you by the deadline, ^lay 15lh. Neu3 here is a little slim, but I'll try to see what is at the bot­tom of the barrel. Thought I'd run across some '3Iers at UND Night here in Detroit, but nary a one did I sec. Looked for Bob Massey, who usually shows up and wc manage an annual \isit, but no Bob. In fact I haven't seen or heard of him since the weekend last June. (Bob, the easiest way to keep up with Matt and your other class­mates is through a letter to me for the column. I am sure you will send one for the next issue.) HENRY KOPEK and I managed to visit oc­casionally, in fact we and our respective spouses took in the Oklahoma A & M vs. Unii'ersity of Detroit basketball game and then finished off the e\'ening with friends here at home. Henry feels and looks well and is busy iviih the laundr>' 

machinery business. MARTIN WIDER and I man­aged to see each other frequently liring only a few blocks apart. Some of his younger hoys drop in on Uncle Matt for a coke or treat. Right now Martin's oldest boy, Charles, is taking dou-n the storms and putting in the screens. That is what I call having it made. Hit the fifty mark and be able to have classmates* clnldren take over the cliores! I talked to FREDDIE RAHAIM last December when I got stranded in Jacksonville for a while en route to St. Petersburg to see my father who was quite Ul. Everything is OK w^ith Fred and Jacksonrille. I may be in Kansas City later tliis month and hope to contact Ben Oakes who I am sure is still there. This is it Jim. I hope it can be considered a filler. May sec you on the Campus the weekend of June 7th." Thanks Matt for a fine letter. Ask Heine to work on the other Detroiters and send me a letter next month. Tlie Brookl>'n dynamo manages to get around and as usual, JOHNNIE BURNS always has a lot of nc%\-s for the old men of '31. "Turn backward, turn backward; O Time in thy flight." I've forgotten the author, but I'm all for the turning .. . to June 8, 9 and ID of last year and a repeat per­formance of that grand reunion. It was so good, after 25 years, to sec those CARROLL HALLERS, 
LOUIS Esposrro, BOB KENDALL, ART MAR­
GRAF, and CHARLIE "RED?" McALEER and so many others uf our wonderful group. It'll have to be Memory Lane from now on; here's hoping all of the pleasant moments were v'ividly etched. ED CUNNINGHAM, ED (SLIM) MAHON and yours truly were the only *31ers attending the 
N. D. Club of New York dinner dance on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night May 3rd in the Park Lane Hotel. REV. JOHN A. CAVANAUGH, 
C.S.C.1 Honorable Robert Briscoe, Lord ilayor of Dublin, Ireland and Hon. Robert F. Wagner, Maj'or of New York City were the principal speak­ers. It was good to see ED CUNNINGHAA! down from Central Valley, N. Y. for a Notre Dame event once more—he's been au-ay too long. TINf 
ST. LOUIS—Albert J. Ravarino (center) has been named *Man of the Year' by the St. Louis Club. The award is being presented by Club President Donald A. Doheny. The presentation was made as part of the Club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Looking on arc the Very Rev. Paid C. Reinert, S.J., St. Louis University president; the Very Rev. Theodore Mehling, C.S.C., provincial of the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Province and guest speaker; and John Higglns, president-elect of the St. Louis Club. 
WASHINGTON, D. C.—Gavels were presented to each past president, all of whom ^vere honored at the club*s Universal Notre Dame Night meeting. Standing, left to right: Tom Markey, Val Deale, Bill Jones, George C. Howard, Jr., Dr. James Corcoran, Paul Tully and Pat Gorman. Sitting, left to right: Dr. Matt Sullivan, Arthur J. "Dutch" Bergman, Dr. James A. Flynn, James D. Hayes, Andrew 
TOOMEY, '30 w-as our personal MC from cock­
tail hour to "Good Night Ladies.** It was a 
wonderful evening. I spent the Easter weekend with 
BILL KELLY, *28 and his family in Rye, N. V. 
We \*isiled with the DICK BARBERS, and finally 
got the Judge out of his easy chair for a long 
walk in Playland and the beach. Didn't see FRANK 
McCULLOUGH, but Dick reports Frank and his 
family are well. JIM MULVANEY was in the 
city in early February. We got together for dinner 
one night and a visit to Long Island City to the 
Driscoll family, relatives of Jim. On his previous 
visit, in October. DICK BARBER, TIM TOOMEY 
and myself joined Jim in a very pleasant visit to 
Leone's, where genial Gene piles the food too 
high. JIM GALLAGHER'S wife, Lorraine, suf­
fered a heart attack last August. Her Improve­
ment has been steady, but very slow. Please say 
a prayer for her recovery. I hope this letter 
readies you before the deadline, Jim. Please give 
my best to any of the bo>'s you may see in your 
travels. My regards to you and your family.'* 
Thanks John for a lot in interesting news. Put 
my name dou-n for a fall report on the football 
games. From BOB GORE: *'I was very happy to re­ceive your card. Since JOHN SULLIVAN and m>-self constitute the entire '31 class representation in Ft. Lauderdale I am afraid there is very little to report on either of us. However, the Third Annual Notre Dome State Convention takes place May 3, 4, and 5 at the Sea Ranch Hotel and undoubtedly more men of the *31 Class will be present at this afTair. I promise to buttonhole each one and forward any information they may volunteer.*' Don't forget that promise Bob as I can use it for the next copy. GIL SEAMAN was In Florida In April and hoped to see Bob, but apparently missed connections. GIL PERRY, whom Gil Seaman and I were the last to bid fond fare­well late Sunday afternoon of the Reunion sends news from Pennsylvania. 
"In response to your request for some news about the " *31crs*' in Wyoming Valley, PennsyUiuiIa, I am submitting the following belated neu-s: 
DR. PETER CASTERLINE, ex 31 and "FRESH­MAN HALLER" Is practicing medicine in Wilkes-Barre, and is head of the heart department at a local hospital. He is married and has three daugh­ters. He dabbles in the stock market, and reports that It, too, has a heart—a kind one. He keeps a light burning in the window of his summer home at Harv*eys Lake for all Notre Damers passing by. 
C. Auth, Gay Haas and Howard Schellenberg. 
DR. MAURICE REGAN enjoj-s a lucrative practice in the valley. He has two sons and a daughter. Maur>* hasn't changed much In ap­pearance except for a lew wrinkles. He gave the principal address at the WIlkes-Barre Club on Universal N. D. Night. By the way, he's sporting a new Cadillac. 
BYRON PAUL KEARNEY, super\-isor with the 

D. P. A., active In Legion circles, and a con­firmed bachelor, contends that the belles at St. Hedwig's were superb "charlesloners" despite JOHNNY BURNS*, contradictory obscrv*ations. In­cidentally, I visit with John via telephone when he rushes thru the region. 
About me? . . . Well, I've been the supervising principal of the local schools for twenty years. Ten years ago I opened a furniture appliance store to provide extras. I have three daughters ranging In ages from 6 to 12. I intend to enroll them at St. Mary's so that I shall have an excuse to visit the campus. 
Keep up the good work Jim. —GIL" 

GORDY S.ALMON sent some interesting snap­shots with his letter. "These few snapshots are alt that could be developed out of the two rolls that I took last year. Had intended to pass them on to you before this, but a severe case of Manana made it impossible. Regret that last year*s successful production is not being repeated this June." Thanks much for the pictures and note Gordy. Among those recognizable in the pictures are: LEO KLETZLY, DON MIHAN, JOHN WEIBLER, JIM GALUXGHER, JIM DOYLE, NICK BOHLING, BILL LE.\HY, JERRY CROW­LEY. DICK BAKER, EMIL TELFEL. L^\RRY CULLIG.VN, JOE WILK, GEORGE JACK­ABOICE, WALT DE BAENE, JOE BOYL.\ND, AL STEPAN, FRANK CHAMBERS, BOB MASSEY and someone Inspecting the bags of Ice cubes for the days construction work. DEON SUTTON, now at 1195 Marbro Drive, Memphis, Tennessee responded with a letter and news en ED. LA­BARTHE. 
"Dear Jim, 
Many thanks for your post card dated April 18, which, according to the postal stamp, managed to get out of tlie post ofiice the same day. 
You have done such a commendable job with our '31 Class affairs, I would like to write your Alumnus report for you but all I can tell you is about mj'self. Only my wife and a little fellow who just rang the door bell are really Interested 
In me. (The door beil ringer thinks I am going 
to subscribe to his magazines) 
I have recently returned from three months 
working my head off in various parts of Latin 
America. Outside of six and a half days work 
each week, the only thing startling that happened 
wds that I went to Chile by mistake, during a 
minor revolution. I*m applying for a faintly colored 
purple heart because I - almost ripped off my 
little toe, on the starboard side, trying to get 
to the window fast enough to see who was shooting 
who, outside. 
In Mexico City, one of the younger members 
of our Alumni, SR. WILLIAM AHUAL\DA, has 
recently been promoted to an executive position 
In Celanese Mexicana. 
I was unable to locate our old young friend, ED. LABARTHE during my last stay In Mexico City. It Is dangerous to get In touch with Ed because he always only has time for a quick lunch. Along about four, when the vest buttons start popping from the food Intake, Ed gives some kind of a secret Mayan signal meaning charge the bill to me and a fellow does not have much chance to pay for the meal a second time. 
Jim, hope there are one or two words In the above worth publishing, which I doubt, but any­way, you are doing a great job so Thanks. 
Best wishes, Deon" 

This winds up the current analysis of what*i going on with '31. Please remember the requests for prayers for sick members of the families of our classmates. I hope all of you have a wonderful summer and will try to send your hard working secretary news for the next issue. 
1932 James K. Collins 
• '^ ^ 3336 Kcnmorc Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

N. D. ALTMAN. GEORGE AREHART, HENRY ASMAN. GILBERT AUGUSTINE. H. E. B.ALL, JOHN BANNON, A. P. BARTON, PAUL BEL­DEN, LLOYD C. BELLAMY, WILLIAM BUND, GEORGE BODEN, JOHN BOGNAR, SAL BON­TEMPO, MURRAY BOOTH. ALBERT BRAS­SEUR. REV. VINCENT BRENNAN. ROGER BRENNAN, WILLIAM BROWN. RARRY BUR. GER, BILL BURGIIART, BOB BURGHART, THOMAS BURNS, RICHARD CANNON, JOE CAREY, DAN CASSIDY, LEO CLARK, PAUL 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 65 
CLARK, JAMES COLLINS, JOHN COLLINS, LEN CONDON, GENE CONNELLY, ANTHONY CONTI, JOSEPH COOKE, JOHN COX, GENE COYNE, MYRON CRA^VFORD, JOHN CRIM­MINS, CHARLES CROCKETT, NORBERT CROWX, PHIL DAHLBERG, DR. PAUL DAILEY, JOHN DAVIS, TERRY DILLON, CHARLES DOERR, MARTY DOLAN, LEN DONOGHUE, THOMAS DUFFY, LEN DUNN, FRANK ERNST, DICK FABRYCKI, LEO FAGAN, LAWRENCE FISCHER, HENRY GAJKOSKI, MATT GARRI­GAN, REV. FRANK GARTLAND, C.S.C., JACK GEDDES, RAY GEIGER, HERB GIORGIO, ANTHONY GIUFFRE, EMMETT GORMAN, ROBERT GORILVN, BILL GOSSELIN, FRANCIS GRAHAM, REV. PAUL HALLINAN, TED HALPIN, NOBLE HARBAUGH, EDWARD HART, CON HAYES, GEORGE HENTS'ION, BOB HILGER, ARTHUR HIMBERT, WILLUM HOGAN, FRANK KELLY, JAMES KENNY, JOE KENNY, JOHN KIENER, DONALD KILLIAN, WALTER KIOLBASA, BILL KIRBY, JERRY KLEIN, EDWIN KOLSKI, TED KREMER, J. REGIS KUHN, JOHN LAUGHNA, VINCENT LAVELLE, JAMES LEWS, JOHN LITCHER, PAUL MCCONTJELL, ANDREW MCGUAN, LEO MCLAUGHLIN, DONALD MCMANUS, TOM MAHAFFEY, FRANCIS MARLEY, JOE MARO­NICK, GEORGE MAYWALT, FRANK MILLER, 
DENNISON MOHLER, MIKE MOORE, JOSEPH MORAN, JOHN MULHERN, LARRY MULLINS, 
0. FRANK MURNANE, JOHN MURPHY, FRANK MURRAY, D. J. NAPOLITANO, CHARLES NASH, BILL NE\S'BOLD, LEO NEW­MAN, FRANK NORTON, FRANK OBERKO­ETTER, FRANK O'CONNOR, FRAN OELE­RICH, BARRY O'KEEFE, JIM O'SHAUGH­NESSY, JOE OSTRANDER, PAUL OTOOLE, CHARLES PETRETIC, RAY PFEIFFER, MARNS POPE, JAMES PO\VER, KELLY POWERS, CLIFF PRODEHL, ROBB PURCELL, EDWARD REAUME, RAYMOND ROACH, C. J. RUFFING, JOHN RYAN, JOHN SCANLAN, LEO SCHIA­VONE, DICK SCHNEIDER, J. W. SIMMONS, WILUAM SLADER, JOHN STAtJNTON, J. DON SULLIVAN, RICHARD SULLIVAN, WALTER TERRY, CLE.M THEISEN, H. S. THOLEN, VANCE UHLMEYER, GEORGE USSHER, BILL VAN ROOY,-ROBERT WATERSON, CLINTON WATSON, CHARLIE WEISS, ARNOLD WIENER, JOSEPH ^MLLIS AND CHARLES ZILIAK. 
DR. PAUL A. DAILEY,- a-general practitioner in Carrollton, III., since 1940, has been elected first vice president of the Illinois State Medical Society*. Dr. Dailey and his u-ife, Margaret, have two sons, John, 17, and David, 10. The Illinois State Medical Society is composed of more than 10,000 phy-sidans and has recently concluded its I17tli annual meeting in Chicago. 
193 3 J°*«P'' A. McCabe 
632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTR.ANT 
W. LA\VRENCE SEXTON. 

1 have good news, *33's—our contributions are steadily mounting, and at the last trip to the vault by keeper^jf-the-keys JOHN O'SHAUGH­NESSY, amounted in the neighborhood of $1,000 . . . which, as TV comics arc prone to say, is a fairly decent neighborhood. Lot's of precincts haven't been heard from yet, though—keep 'em coming, lads! 
To get right into the main body of the news, I'm going to start quoting from some of the con­tributors. Unfortunately, most of them had no time to include any news notes, but I'm In hopes die litany of names and addresses will spur others on to more loquacity. 
Outstanding among donors was EUGENE G. RAU, who gave the lordly sum of' $100. Gene has two children. lives at 749 Scotch Plains Ave., Wcstficld, N. J., and is vice president and chief engineer of his firm. Thanks, boy! 
Wc won't have space to comment on all the others, so let's just run them through: 
F. GRANGER WEIL, 4344 Grau'ot Avenue, Port Huron, Mich., four children, two grandchildren, executive vice president. Times Herald. 
JOHN J. RYAN, RFD No. 3, Lloyd Harbor, Huntington, N. Y., two children, vice president and counsel. Republic Aviation. 
ROGER P. BRENNAN, 21015 Claythome Rd., Shaker Heights, Cleveland, seven children, partner in law firm of Jones, Day, Coakley and Reavis. 
JOHN A. PENOTE, 20100 S. Clair Ave. (your 
EDWIN W. KENEFAKE, '34 
The sales manager for Carrier Cur­

rent equipment of General Electric . Company's ; communication products department is Edwin W. Kenefake. Ed 
joined the GE ;Company'in- 1936;.arid •' 
has had a highly successful career with 
this organization. 
Before he became associated with the marketing aspects of the company's communications branch, Ed obtained eight patents on various devices he de­veloped as a design engineer. He has had more tlian two decades of engi­neering and marketing experience in the communications field. 
While his headquarters have been 

in Syracuse, N. Y., for the past several 
years, he has traveled extensively in 
connection with his microwave work. 
Advisory assignments took him to 
Venezuela and Guatemala in 1954, and 
to India and Pakistan in 1956. He 
was one of the last persons to leave 
New Delhi when that area was ravaged 
by an earthquake and flood. 
He leads a somewhat calmer life in 

Sjiacuse TOth his family of four boys 
and one girl and his wife Ann Marie. 
Mrs. Kenefake helped to organize the 
ladies auxiliary of the Notre Dame 
Club of Central New York and is a 
past president of that group. 
Ed has been extremely active in 

alumni affairs having served as presi­
dent of the Notre Dame Club of the 
Capitol District (Albany, N. Y.) and 
also president of the Notre Dame Club 
of Central New York (Syracuse). 
handtvritlng, John!) Cleveland, three children, sales director, Cleveland Trencher (?) Co., who adds: "NORM GREENEY is with our firm; I saw DICK SHIELS of CIncinatti last week—he has 10 children now." 
FREDERICK J. ^VENIGER, lOS Franklin Rd., Pittsburgh, four children, clinical director. Western Psychiatric Institute, associate professor of psydiia­try, U. of Pittsburgh Medical School. 
^VILLIAM B. DREUX, 529 Woodvlne Ave., Metairie, La., partner in law firm Hiurley and Dreui ($25—thanks. Bill!) 
JOSEPH F. DAVEY, 819 W. Superior, Alma Mich., merchant: "my eldest son John enters 
N. D. this September." SIGMUND H. KITKO\VSKI, 230 N. Brookfield, South Bend, Ind., three children, owner. Brook­field Pharmacy—another $100 contributor—many 
tlianks, Sig . . . would have put you at the top of the list too but your envelope just got here. 
GEORGE H. REILLY, 1316 Moon Dr., Yardley, Px, two children, assistant manager of industrial relations. National Tube Division, U. S. Steel (George asks If there are any other *33's in his area—he just moved there.) 
JERRY GREER, Melrose Park, 111., sales man­ager. International (Something—Jerry?) Co. JOHN B. NICHOLS, Milwaukee 3, Wis., lawyer ($25—many thanks, John!) 
PAUL M. CALLAGHAN, 445 W. Main, Bcllevue, O., four bo>*s, newspaper publisher ($25—thanks, Paul . . . that amount is page 1 news!) 
C. B. "BERNIE" LENAHAN, 411 Nicholas, Vincennes, Ind., two children, civil engineer: "BOB THUNE stopped to see me—but missed him—he is now living in Des Plaines, III." ($25— thanlcs, Bemie, you're a very civil engineer In­deed.) 
DR. ROBERT E. DONOVAN, 40 Jason St., .Vlington, Mass., five children, ph>*sician*surgeon— 10 years with Ford Motor Company. 
JA.MES E. UPRICHARD, 1240 Chase, Lakewood 7, O., three children, supervisor, accounting depart­ment, Ohio Bell Telephone: "CLEVE QIREY in •-(eniinary'--in'—Southern California; DR. A. J. O'BRIEN, successful obstetrician, Lakewood; ED 
''KILLEEN, parking lot attendant t>'cooo, Cleve­land (I read you loud and clear, Jim—see you one of these days!) 
LUCIEN S. KEMPF, Box 75, Lindsay, Okla­homa, two children, broomcom broker; "Here's $25 now (many thanks. Luce!)—more later. I think if all the fellows attempted to send a little now and a little later, etc., the amount would grow in a hurry. Hope to go East in May—might stop over in Chicago and will call if I do. Sec and hear from FATHER JIM DONNELLY at Lam­pasa now and then—he is doing a great job there." 
(Which reminds me if this editorial voice may break in again—let's all 'say a prayer that Father Jim and his mission did not sulTer from the tornado and flood that ravaged Lampasa a few weeks ago. I could find no mention of his name but all we had was AP coverage out East where I w-as on business at the time.) 
MARION J. BLAKE, 709 Oil Capital BIdg., Tulsa, Okla., one child, lawyen "See you in '58." Marion was another big contributor--$50. (Many thanks, Marion! That's crashing through like on the old 53 spinner!) 
JULES DE LA VERGNE, 413 Fere Marquette BIdg., New Orleans, La., two children, architect. 
PAUL KREUZ, 1801 16th Avenue, Menominee, Mich., three children, merchant—$25,' many thanks! Paul says: "Why don't you contact RALPH "SHANGHAI" MOLLER, Fenchurch St., Rood Lane, London, England—he might come to the reunion. We saw him a month ago on a trip here. His wife is from Frisco." Thanks, Paul—will do. 
PATRICK F. CRO^VLEY, 2304 Elmwood, Wil­metter, four children, partner, law firm Crowley, Sprecher and Weeks. 
THOMAS J. KENNEDY, vice president, Local Loan Co., 105 W. Madison, Chicago 2, 111.: "I know tliere is a lot of effort and expense in making a success of the 25-year reimion but I wish you the best." 
MARTIN i-INSKEY, 106 Patterson Ave., Green­wich, Conn., five children, executive. Scars Roe­buck Co.: "Just transferred to the New York area. Give my best to the old gang In Chicago." 
EDMUND A. STEPHAN, sLx children, member law firm Mayer, Friedlich, Spicss, Tiemy, etc, 231 
S. LaSalle. 
EDWIN A. GAUSSELIN, 9057 S. Ho>Tie, Chi­cago, zone distributor, Pabst Brewing Co. 
FRANCIS J. O'KEEFE, 703 N. Do^vning, Piqua, 

Ohio. 
RICHARD N. HOSTENY, 414 U. S. Post Office, 

Norfolk 10, Va.. eight children, Federal Bureau 
Investigation agent-in-charge. 
CHARLES L. FARRIS. 4606 Mar>land St., St. 

Louis, three cliildren, executive director, St. Louis 
Land Clearance & Housing Authority, $25—thanks 
Charlie, but how about a line or two of that 
inimitable Farriscoop .. . or shall I sing "The 
Last Time I Saw Farris?" 
FRANK G. MATAVOSKY, 2650 W. 51st Street, 

Chicago 32, two children, president. Economy 
Sanngs & Loan Assn., ($20—many thanks, Frank!) 
\V. LA\VRENCE SEXTON, 1457 N. Delaware, 

Indianapolis, realtor. Larry also sent a letter, for 
which see below. 
JOHN M. BARRETT, 1757 Jackson St., Alex­andria, La., construction engineer, U. S. Army, $25—thanks, John! 
Some of the fellows sent letters as follows: From LARRY SEXTON: 
I often see FRED ZIETLOW who is the general manager of one of the largest plumbing and heating companies in the state. BOB LEWIS, formerly of Frankfort, Indiana, has been located here in Indi­:mapoIis for many years as a^sistant director of the 
F.B.I. The three of us, I believe, are the only members of the class of '33 residing in Indianapolis. This may exclude TOM MEHAFFEY, as I don't remember if he graduated with his original class. Tom and I both started in '28 but I was forced to lay out of school one year and I believe Tom missed a semester. 
Besides golf as a hobby I endeavor to see eight or nine of the school's football games every year. I have only missed three home games at Notre Dame in the past seventeen years. Kindly tell JOE McCABE when you see him I again plan to have the same parking spot. 
From ED SARCUS, Belmont Federal Sa\-ings & 

Loan, Bellatre, O.: 
Enclosed is my check for $10.00 to help keep the 

ball rolling for the I95S reunion. 
I am sorry that I have been so lax in keeping in contact with Joe McCabe, class secretary, but with my release from the service and consequent marriage, and resultant family of three children it seems that every time one of the five year reunions came up my wife Betty and I were being blessed with a new addition. 
You may or may not know that I went back to Notre Dame Law School in '49 to complete the last two years of law and it was quite an experience as you might suspect. I received my degree in '51 and passed the Ohio Bar the same year. Since then I have been in general private practice and have been blessed with good fortune. 
While we were in South Bend I had hoped to get up to Chicago sooner or later and had planned on making a visit with you one of my first duties. It will certainly be a wonderful experience to get back and relive four ^s^onderful years. 
Incidentally, my olHce is in my old hometown of Beltaire, although our family home is in St. Cl^rs\TlIe (Ohio) which is on U. S. Route 40, and it would be a real pleasure to welcome you if you ever have occasion to be passing through. 
From DR. BOB DONOVAN: I have already pledged $100 to the Moreau Seminary Fund but am happy to enclose my con­tribution to the class fund. Wouldn't it be nice to donate this class fund in honor of MOST REV. JOHN O'HARA, Arcli­bishop of Philadelphia, whom we all remember fondly as "the Pope,'* our tireless Prefect of Religion. At our summer home in Kenncbunkport, Maine, we see the Crowleys a great deal and ADAM WALSH. We also hear frequently (understate­ment!) from JACK SAUNDERS, N. D. Founda-Uon governor for Mass. ART McMANMON is still a big boy in size and general manager of Donnelly Outdoor Advertising since his graduation from Harvard Business School. JAMES O'DE^V is the famous district attorney of our count>-—won his last election hands doMTi. He is being boosted for next governor. Here's a thought for the reunion—why not appoint a lieutenant in each state to whoop things up? 
Many thanks, Bob—swell idea. How about that. President Rohrs? (Incidentally, will try to call you in Arlington next time I'm Bay Stating.) 
Well—that's all for now, class. Been a pretty good haul this time—keep it coming! And keep up your prayers also for classmates living and dead —I'm iiirc we can all use each other's prayers. 
JAMES L. O'DEA, JR., '43 

In a major political upset, James L. O'Dea, Jr., became the first Democratic district attorney of Middlese.^ County (Mass.) in over half a century. After graduating from Notre Dame in 1943, magna cum laude, Jim received a bachelor of laws degree from Harvard and later was law clerk to Chief Justice Qua of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court. 
He served with distinction in the 

U. S. Marine Corps during World War II, was wounded at Iwo Jima and was awarded the Bronze Star, Purple Heart and Presidential Unit Citation. Jim was elected to the Massachusetts legislature in 1949 and subsequently re-elected three other times. He was appointed Majority Whip, second in Democratic leadership, in the House. 
While in the legislature he received an. appointment to the Committee on Reprganization of the Correction Sys­
*"tem' and was chairman of a special subcommittee studying prison systems throughout the country. Jim sponsored the new probation law in Massachu­setts establishing certain standards for probation officers. 
As district attorney he instituted a juvenile panel which caused a more ef­fective disposition of youthful ofTenders. 
Recently, the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Boston held a dinner in special recognition of Jim O'Dea. He is mar­ried to the former Carol Gibbons and they are the parents of four sons, James, Dennis, Brian and Kevin. 
Especially keep the rosarys jingling in honor d 
Our Lady and Notre Dame. 
P.S.—Your class secretary is in the advertinnv 
department of Kemper Insurance, Chicago (4730 
Sheridan Road, LO 1.8000 .. . so if you get in to 
the city give me a call!) 
P.P.S.—Here are some late arrivals: 
JIM HARRIS, assistant football coach. Holy 
Cross Univeisity, Worchester, Mass. 
BERNARD L. COUSINO, Erie, Michigan: "Glad 
to help your Reunion treasury a little. Am stiQ 
in feed processing and farming. Have five children 
in four schools—otu. oldest, Neil, is now a freshman 
at N. D. When our Class Gift is decided, I will 
be happy to pay my share." 
T. Edward Carey 

1934 
18843 Inglcwood Avenue 
Rocky Rircr, OhSo 
REUNION REGISTRANT ELI J. SHAHEEN. 

AUGUST VON BOECKUN has been elected lo the ofHce of the president of the Pierce Cotmty Federal Savings and Loan Association, Seattle. Wash. 
1 93c Franklyn C. Hochrciter 
•'•' 702 Scarlett Drive Baltimore 4, Maryland 

We're late again this time, gang, and we can only hope that your Editor will publish otir copy. If this comes to you in the fall Instead of the summer, you have no one to blame but your Scribe. We will try to be more eflScient in the future. The deadline caught up with us before we ^vcre aware of it this trip to press. 
A long phone call from BILL RYAN (confirmed by a letter) as well as lengthy communiques from FRANK HOLAHAN, ART CONRAD and a note signed "JACK P.** (which lea^'es us in the dark) rounds out most of our material. 
Let's start in with the earliest postmark. This note on the Morris Inn letterhead was signed by a "JACK P." No doubt our friend Jack expected us to recognize the handwriting. If we should know either it, or the namCt we humbly apologize because we have drawn a great big BLANK. Any\%-ay, here is what our anonymous Avriter had to say: 
"Remember JIM KELLY, who w^as our Sc^ht^­more Class secretary. 
"Jini is spending three months here at Morru Inn directing the campaign to raise $3,000,000 for the Holy Cross Fathers Seminary—a new Moreau Seminary to be built on the Campus. 
"Jim Is In the Public Relations and Fund Rais­ing business and it Is fitting the Holy CTOS% Fathers have one of their own to do the job. 
"Jim lives at 63 Rodney Place, Rockville Centre, Long Island and said he would appreciate a note-from some of the old gang. 
"He sees JOE BirTNER. BILL MURTHA and BILL KENNEDY once in a while. He asks about the whereabouts of FRANK HOLAHAN and JERRY MERGARDT and BILL HELM. 
**JIm and his wife Kay are the proud parents of two lovely children—both adopted—Patrick and Margaret Mary. Travel keeps him away ixom home so he wants the boys to write In case hr gets to their home town." 
^Ve very much appreciated hearing from "JACK P." and only hope that he will Identify himself in the future. 
COLONEL HOLAHAN (Louisiana Colonel, that Is) came through after a long silence. Frank seems to have been moring also, not only Into a new home but around the country. Here is the Holahan report: 
"I don't believe that I have written you since we completed our home In Chevy Chase and moved into It. We like It very much around here, and of course have long since been well settled. If yon get to Washington sometime give us a ring, and we would like to have you out. As close as Baltimore Is, we seldom get over there, and when we are there we are alu'ays In a rush as we were when we attended the Navy game last fall. 
"Louise Is in fine fettle as are our three young­sters. After seeing O'REILLY'S and GRAVEL'i family pictures, I hate to mention only three, but the Lord was not as good to us as to them. Johnny is a freshman at St. John's High School, a local military school operated by the Christian Brothers, and he likes It very much. Billy Is in 
Notre Dam$ Alumnus, AugustSeptembtr, 1957 67 
The Robert Echenrodes, *48, Columbus, O., have an active household with these seven aiirac­rivc children. Bob ^^-as named *Man of the Year for 1957' by Columbus alumni. The little Echenrodes include Anne Marie, 7; Susan, 6; Audrey, 5; J. W., 4; Nancy, 3; Molly, 2; and the baby, Marcy, 4 months. 
Ac fifth grade at Blessed Sacrament School, and 
Rita Louise, not yet three, keeps us all hustling. 
The boys are looking forward to attending N. D., 
of course. 
"One of the attractions of my present posiiion 

is that I should no longer have to travel. Within 
a few months in 1956, however, I covered more 
than 50,000 mile^ commuting to the west coast. 
This did give me a chance to make occasional 
stops with my mother in Galesburg and sister in 
Chicago and sre a few of the *35ers. I stopped 
off at N. D. for the Purdue game, and who should 
be sitting beside me but PAUL FERGUS and his 
wife. We had a couple of libations and a visit at 
his home after the game. He has a very nice 
place just beyond N. D. as you may know, and 
a most pleasant family. The advertising business 
must be good. He has a daughter at Dunbartnn 
College in Washington whom I have since tried 
unsuccessfully to contact a couple of times. 
'•I spent that evening with BILL RYAN and 

Elouise and their two talented daughters, and, 
15 alu-ays, enjoyed the Ryan hospitality. Tlieir 
new home is a dandy! Bill gave me quite a sales 
pitch about the coming reunion, and I must admit 
that I had previously been dilatory. I am sure 
we all spend $10 for many more foolish purposes. 
"As I mentioned above, we attended the Na^y 

game in Baltimore—Louise, our t\vo boys and 
Ned and Jane Rowan, who were our guests for 
the weekend. Due to having the children with 
us and the Daby waiting at home with a sitter we 
had to leave right after the game so did not 
have an opportunity to sec you. Tlie ROY 
SCHOLZS very kindly had the lot of us for an 
excellent lunch at their home where we enjoyed 
meeting their youngsters. 
"On one junket to Fort Worth, San Diego, San Franosco. Reno and Chicago, Louise accompanied me. While we were waiting for our plane In San Frandsco who should we see in the airport . but VAIL CLIFF who, as you may know, is a big wheel with United Airlines. We had a xislt with him whSe he waited for the postmaster general. A few weeks later I was entering the Cathedral in Salt Lake City, and once again met 
Vail. He surely has not changed much since 1935. 
*'0n another trip to Salt Lake City I spent a very pleasant evening with PHIL PURCELL, having a grand dinner at his club with plenty of reminiscing inasmudi as I had not met him since graduation. You mention something in your column about his luokltig for a rich widow. Let me tell you, he had a mighty nice-gal \viih him that night. He showed me through his business building, and It surely made me realize I should have been In the insurance business. 
"CAMILLE GRAVEL and Catherine stopped in to see us months ago, and Camllle promised to stop by after the election last fall, but we have seen or heard nothing from him—maybe he doesn't wani to show his face since Eisenhower won so handily. 
"We see'the ROW^VNS occasionally in AVilkes-Barre. Ned Is doing well as an insurance adjuster, and has a mighty fine little boy and girl. PAUL LOCHER, who was in our class as a freshman and sophomore, but dropped out to graduate a couple of years later than we did, lives near us, and we see htm and his wife occasionally. He is professor of History at Georgetown University and seems to enjoy I:fc with his wife and two children after many years of badiclorhood. CHARLIE HILL, *35, is an up and coming surgeon and also lives near us. I have talked with htm on the phone a couple of times, but as yet we have not been able to get together. 1 understand he has six little ones now. 
"Keep up the pitching about the Reunion. I surely am going to try my best to be there. You kinda startled me when you said in your column that we'll never have another one! What*s the matter—RYAN and HAMILTON getting too old?" 
Do you ever get up Baltimore way, Frank? (Other than a Navy game, that Is.) We certainly would like to sec you and Louise. Maybe we ought to have a reunion of Louisiana Colonels— are you for i*? 
It's been so long since we last heard from ART CONRAD that his "report to the nation" really gave us a lot of Interesting material. As you will read in his letter, he is now, in addition to being 
Iproidciit of the Heritage Foundation, also the director of Traffic Education for Chicago. 
Counting Art as a close personal friend for over ~ 
twenty-five years, we have always been fasdnated 
by what happened to him. From time to time we 
have reported in this column his interesting esca­
pades. Who can lorget his Navy da>'s when he 
was the President's spedal courier to Yalta. Things 
Just happen to some people—and when they happen 
to ARTHUR LUCIUS they usually happen in a 
big %vay. Here is Art's story in his own words: 
"Congratulations are in order to you once again 
for keeping up the gw>d record for the Class of 
1935 in the Notre Dame Alumnus. I read the 
magazine from cover to cover and I think we can 
be proud of the continued cooperation between us 
bums in the field, and our chubby dass secretary. 
"To bring you up-to-date on my own meander­
ings, attached is a copy of the GABRIELLE, a 
publication uf St. Mary's College at Notre Dame, 
Indiana. You will notice in the second row a fat-
faced individual named Arthur L. Conrad, who 
has just had the distlnrtlon of being elected to 
the Board of Lay Trustees at our sister school 
across the road. Sister Madele%'a is a very pursu­
astvc and charming woman an It is dilficult to 
say "no" to her. Virginia and I ran a centenary-
dinner last year and put some $14,000 into St. 
Maty's till through that effort. I never particu­
larly scored at St. Mary's in 1935, except with 
my wife, and so I get quite a chuckle out of 
being a Lay Trustee at this late date. 
"In addition to the above mentioned extra 
curricular activities, at the Invitation of Chief 
Justice RAYMOND P. DRYMALSKI a member of 
the Class of 1928. I assumed the duties of Director 
of Traffic Education for Chicago. The first task in 
organizing this effort for the nation's second 
largest city has been the rstablishment of the 
Driver Improvement School. "With the Cardinal and 
the Mayor in attendance, this school was opened 
in October 1956 after some tedious months of 
preparation. 
"In a very short span of time, because of the 
gift of gab of the director, (a bow in the direction 
of the Wranglers]—a good deal of attention has 
been focused on this educational effort. We have 
had requests from t%venty-five (25) dties across the 
nation for permission to copy the Chicago plan, 
and the Attorney-General In Canada has approved 
tJie s>-siem lock, slock and barrel. In May I will 
address the Canadian Magistrates Conference in 
Ottawa. 
"This effort is most challenging, Hoch, when 
one considers that last year over 40,000 people 
were killed with these things called automobiles 
and one-million seven-hundred thousand (1,7(K),(KI0] 
were injured. If you come out Chicago way I 
would be very happy to show you our modem 
dassrooms, the curriculum and the other efforts 
that are going into tfie project. 
"At the moment we are enlisting the support 
of the dergy. Catholic, Jewish and Protestant, 
in an cfTort to establish the moral responsibility of 
the man behind the wheel. Each of these denomi­
nations has proposed a "^fotorist's Prayer." The 
Cardinal, Archbishop of Chicago has issued a short 
and the most cfTrctlve pastoral letter in fifteen 
(15) years. He simply stated that it is a sin to disobey traffic regulations. The Jewish and Protest­ant efforts are equally good. 
"On the Heritage side of the picture, we have 
- published a few new purpose books: CHALLENGE OF LIBERTY by Robert V. Jones, and another Kdler book entitled, THE CASE FOR RIGHT TO WORK LAWS, which is a defense of voluntary unionism. We are at the present time working on a manuscript by Colonel Augustin G. Rudd, en­titled BENDING THE TWIG, which we hope to publish withtn the next month, and which deals with the attempt of the John Dewey's of the Co­lumbia University Teacher's College to capture the minds of our voung people. Other manuscripts arc on tap and when the interest, funds, or both are forthcoming, we shall attempt to do our bit in providing the American reader with some thought provoking books. 
"On the Catholic side, as you probabaly know, we published Monslgnor John Tiracy Ellts' artide, A.MERICAN CATHOLICS .\ND THE INTELLEC­TUAL LIFE in book form. I think this was one of the most challenging articles that I have ever read. I asked Bishop Wright of \Vorcester, Klassachusctts to write the "Foreword" to the book. He did and its distribution has increased by leaps and bounds. We have continuing great plans for this Important book. For example. Father Hesburgh has placed a copy of the book in the hands of each of the 400 faculty members at Notre Dame. We are hoping that we can get out a second edition which will place a copy of the book in the hands of e%*ery member of the 
Catholic Educatinn Association. I hope then that Notre Dame will sponsor a symposium on the subject at some future date. 

"About other [oiks of the CIxss of '35 seen and heard In this part of the roiintry, I see my old buddy and room-mate JACK CLARK several times a week. He ts setting an outstanding example of hou- to run a movie theatre in the middle-west. People have come from many sections of the country to study his operations of the Tiffin Theatre on the northwest side of Chicago. Jack has done an out­standing Job. He, of course, has more irons in the fire, on a wide variety o( projects, including a coffee machine company, than anyone I have ever known. He is just the »ame wonderful "guy" that you knew at school. Wonderful family—two boj-s and two girls. Mimi will be a freshman at St. Mary's, while his son John is a champion swimmer at Fcnwick. 
"Some months aso JAKE KUXZ stopped in Chicago on an auditing job and spent a night and a day with us. Jake has two bo>*s. one nf whom I have the pri\*ilcge ol calling "god-child." He and Dorothy have built a lovely new home in Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, and are growing grey at the temples like the rest of us. 
"We arc now looking fonvard to seeing the 25th reunion fund grow and if there is anything else that we can do here to stimulate funds, please call upon us. Our best to you and your wonderful family." 
Our best to Virginia and the CONRAD gang. How about a trip east and a refresher at the Baltimore "whistle stop" so we can really hash over your life. Your iast visit included your talk at the Lyric, as we recall. ^Vc can't avoid one comment. Art, it took several glances at the St. Mary's Board of Lay Trustees to find you. We rushed to a mirror to find out whether we looked that old. Slow down, man, you'll live longer!! (Even our secretary thinks we look like a boy by comparison.) 
BILL RYAN gave us a call one evening several weeks ago when he was in Baltimore on a flying trip for Associates Investment Company. Seems that Associates is expanding all over the country and Baltimore is no exception. Bill was here look­ing over new sites. On his return to South Bend he dropped us a note which we give you now: 
"It was nice to chat with you while in Baltimore recently. I wish I had had the time to \'isit with you personally—maybe next time I can. 
"The drought in the Alumnus last issue u-as concerning. It seems we ought to have something in it from somebody, somewhere. Here is a quick bit of information which may be worthy of print. 
"I was in New Orleans a few weeks aco and spent a day at Alexandria with CAMILLE GRAVEL. Our Company is opening an office in his city so I combined btisincss with the pleasure of seeing him again and meeting his wonderful family. Despite the lack of letters, Camille is not inactive in his duties as vice president of the southern division He has a list of some 38 men in his territory and is in the process of contacting them by letter or personally in regard to the forth­coming 25th reunion Camille is more than hope­ful that the southern boys will get in back of our program even at this early date and show tangible interest by coming through u*ith the "mazuma." We are looking forward to Camille's progress reports. 
"I talked to JOE BEACH on the phone. Joe, as >'ou probably know, is proprietor of the Beach Furniture Company as well as some allied com­panies and is one of our old standb>-5 as far as interest in the class of '35 is concerned. He had some ideas to pass on to me which I will submit to JIM HAMILTON and DAN YOUNGERMAN. 
"My future itinerary at this writing will get me to other parts ol the U. S. over the next several months and I will keep referring to my trusty '33 directory to contact as many of the fellows as possible. You may be assured I will drop you a line as I get my additional information." 
Appreciated buth hearing from you and receiving your letter, Bill. Hope the next time you're in the east you wdl be able to drop out for a chat with a "cold one." 
It is with a great deal nf regret that we dis­covered that JIM HAMILTON'S father died on April II. To the president and his brother. Bob, we extend the very sincere sympathy of the Class of '35. 
We note that the western Veep was busy early in May ' with his financial campaign. PHIL PURCELL got mil a communique to all of his constituents on Nfay 17. We will be interested to know the outcome of his campaign. 
From a copy of the letter which DAN YOUNG­ERMAN wrote to CAMILLE GRAVEL we gathered that Camille. as the southern Veep, is also on the beam. We shall be interested to know the results of his campaign, ton. 
That leaves ANDY MAFFEI to report for the east. How about it, Andv, when do you start? 
As you all know, ED VAN HUISSELING started this ball rolling some montlis ago. It would seem that this is our low period between reunions—low in interest, low in financial contri­butions. Let's get back on the beam for the big push in 1960. 
That about closes the door for this trip to press, except for the latest changes of address. Here they arc: 
ADAIR C. BARLOW, 31 Kensington Lane, Newark, Delaware. WILLLUI P. BERNARD, 558/2 E. Paige Avenue, Barbcrton, Ohio. EDWARD A. BRACKEN, JR., 44 Arnold Avenue, Clostcr, New Jersey. VICTOR S. a\RTON, 80-09 35th .\vcnue. Apt. 18, Jackson Heights, New York. LEO M. DILLO.V, JR., 22 Lincoln Avenue, Pittsburgh 5, Pennsylvania. R/\YMOND FIRESTEIN (DR.), 502 N. Iron­wood Drive, South Bend, Indiana. WILLIAM B. HEL.ME (DR.), 208 E. Wisconsin Avenue. Milwaukee 2, Wisconsin. THO.\L\S J. HILS, 130 Ward Street, New Haven, Connecticut. 
JAMES P. KEOUGH, 2705 £. 5th Stret:t. Duluth 12, Minnesota. WILLIAM J. KLIMA. 1455 Martha Custis. Alexandria, Virginia. CHESTER A. KOWALS (DR.), 217 WhitcomU & Keller BIdg., South Bend, Indiana. ^VILLIAM M. MALLOY, 1875 Jeffcnon Avemu-. BcIImore, New York. FRANCIS R. AL\WELL, 54385 EImhur3t, South Bend, Indiana. VICTOR H. METTLER, 8133 Highland Placr. Munster, Indiana. GERALD R. MOLINARI, 101 Center Streei. Oneonta, New York. 
J. E.MMETT MURPHY, 402 South Pacific, Santa Anna, California. BERNARD M. O'BRIEN, 7149 S. Euclid Avenue. Chicago 49, Illinois. EUGENE L. O'BRIEN, 1109 Bellcmore Road. Baltimore 10, Mar>*land. FRANCIS J. 0'CON*NOR, Bureau of Reclame tion. Camp White, Oregon. JAMES R. SCOTT, 2523 South PhilUps, Sioux Falls, South Dakota. HARRIS L. SHEPARD. 14 BOodeau Court, Bur­lington. Vermont. JOHN J. VERBANC. 1220 Hillside Boulevard. Wilmington 3, Delaware. FRANCIS G. \VEINNL\NN, JR., 483 CoIvi» Street, Rochester 6, Ne\v York. 
CYRIL A. WIGGINS, P. O. Box 286, Flushing. New York. 
Soil Stewardship Trophy of Lampasas Coimtyj Texas, is admired by Ed Bcckman, '16 (stand­ing), secretary, and J. C, Griffin, president, both members of the Board of Administrators ivho judge the a^vard. Father James Donnelly, C.S.C., suggested a trophy be awarded for soil conscr\-ation during Rogation Week. The judges select the winner from ranches in that area. As a climax to the occasion, all the county's farmers and ranchers will attend a testi­
monial picnic honoring the top rancher of the county. 
—.'-.•i->>'-"Ol 

EDWARD J. ZLM.MERS, 1419/. Villa Street, Racine, Wisconsin. 
Has anyone heard from FRANCIS J. SHAY, we iia\*e him as *'miclaimed"—formerly living at Sea­man, Ohio. 
Our next time to press is August 23. We hope that this copy, which w*as due a week ago, will not be held until then. In any event, let's have your ideas and ^-our news. 
From the Altmini office: JOHN G. FRY has been appointed chief engineer of the Coast Lines for the Atchison, Topcka and Santa Fe, located in Los Angeles. 
193 A Robert F. Er>Tn 1329 Kensington Road Grosse Pointe Park, Michigan 
REUNION REGISTRANTS JIM FOOHEY AND KEVIN KEHOE. 

JOHN J. MORAN, formerly with Watson Asso­ciates, announces the establishing of John Moran Associates, public relations counsel, in Dallas, Texas. 
(Ed. Note: Your class secretary has a new address—1329 Kensington Road, GrxMse Poinle Park, Michigan. Bob has accepted tlie position of man­ager for the Detroit research activities of Parke, Davis and Company. He starts his new job the first of August. One of the early associates of Professor Rcyniers in his pioneering work with genn free animals at Notre Dame, Bob was as­sistant director of Lobund Institute when he re­signed as of June 30. The University is losing an extremely competent employee—hc*s one of the very best! The Class of "36 can be assured of his continuing interest in making this column click. Please give him help by supplying news of yourself and your classmates.—J.C.) 
1037 Paiil Foley, Vice-President 
''* ' McCann-Erickson, Inc. 3346 Penobscot BIdg. Detroit 26, Michigan 

REUNION REGISTRANTS LOUIS ALAMAN, JIM BACON, HARRY BALD­WIN, ROY BARRON, GEORGE BATES, RALPH BERNARD, ROBERT BURKE, JOHN CACKLEY, RALPH CARDINAL, THOMAS CARNEY, PETER CASSONE, JERRY CLAEYS, JOHN COYLE, 
J. URBAN DALY, JERRY DAVEY, RICHARD DELANEY, PAUL DORAN, JOSEPH DORGAN, JOSEPH DRUECKER, T. R. DUCEY, CHARLES DUFFY, AL ERSKINE, BILL FALLON, GEORGE FEELEY, LOU FEHLIG, ED FISCHER, RICH­ARD FLOOD, ED FOX, JOHN FRANCIS, ED GANNON, ED GARVEY, FRED GAST, BASIL GILLESPIE, JACK GILLESPIE, JERO.ME GOH­MAN, ARCH GOTT, PAUL GUARNIERI, JAMES HACK, PETER HEARDEN, JOE HEATHER­MAN, HAROLD HEINE.\LW;N, C. A. HENKEL, DON HENNESSY, ARTHUR HOFF.M.AN, THO­MAS HUGHES, EDWARD HUISKING, PETER JOHNEN, BUCKY JORDAN, REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CS.a , MILTON KATZ, BARNEY KEFFLER, BILL KENNEDY, KARL KING, WIL KIRK, HARRY KOEHLER, REV. WILLIAM C. KUNSCH, NELSON LA.MPERT, JOHN LAUTAR, JOHN LEVICKI, GENE LING, REV. ROBERT LOCHNER, C.S.C., TOM LUCKEY, BILL LYNCH, RICHARD McARDLE. REV. WILLIAM McAULIFFE, C.S.C., TOM McCARTHY, 
FRANCIS MCDONALD, RAYMOND MCGRATH, MATTHEW McINERNY, JOHN McKENTCA, WILLIAM McNALLY, CHARLES MEYERS, FREDERICK MULCAHY, ARTHUR MULHOL­LAND , EUGENE MULLEN, PAUL MULLER, FRED MUNDEE, EDWARD NEAHER, J. WALTER NIENABER, BERNARD NIEZER, JAMES O'DONNELL, JAMES OSGOOD, JA.MES 
L. PARSONS, THO.MAS PENDERGAST, HARRI­SON PIERCE, HARRY POULIN, JACK POWERS, JOSEPH PROKOP, FRANCIS QUINL,\N, JOSEPH QUKN, BERNARD REII.LY, JOHN RILEY. BERTSCHLOE.MER, STEVEN SCHMIDT, AL SCHWARTZ, TONY SCOLARO, JOHN SHAW, J. PAUL SHEEDY, BOBBY SIEGFRIED, ALEX SLOAN, AL S.MITH, BILL STEIN­KEMPER, MITCHELL TACKLEY, WALTER TROY, BILL TUNNEY, DOMINICK VARRA­VETTO, DR. ANTHONY VALVO, PETER VIVI­ANO, JAMES WALDRO.N, BOB WEAVER, PHILIP WELSH, THO.MAS WHITE, JOHN WIL­LIAMS. PAUL 4VINSOUER, VIC VOJCIHOVSKI 
AND JOSEPH Z\VERS. 
ANDREW L. LOVE, '30 

Andrew L. Love was appointed comptroller of the Western Union Tele­graph Co., on April 10, 1957. A na­tive of Ottumwa, Iowa, he received a degree in business administration in 1930 at N. D., and the following year was awarded his Masters Degree from Columbia University. Subsequently, he spent five years on the staff of the Co­lumbia University School of Business as an instructor in accounting. Dur­ing this period Andy collaborated ^vith Messrs. J. L. Dohr and 
H. A. Ingraham in \vriting a text­book on cost accounting. In the fall of 1936 he became associated wth Arthur Andersen and Company, public accountants, and left their employ to become assistant comptroller of Postal Telegraph Company, Inc., on April 1, 1940, continuing in this capacity until the merger of Postal Telegraph with Western Union in October, 1943. He has served in various capacities in the merged company and was responsible for the coordination of the company's budgetary control program, accounting methods and cost accounting prior to his recent appointment. 
Andy is a member of the New York Chapter of the National Association of Cost Accountants. He resides at 79 Stratford Road, West Hempstead, 
N. Y., and is married to the former Amanda Frances Adams of Danville, Kentucky. They have a fifteen year old son, who is a sophomore in prep school. 
1938 Charles M. Callahan Sports Publicity Dept Notre Dame, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRANT THOMAS WEIGAND. 

From the Alumni ofHce: 
ROBERT F. HOLTZ, Elkhart, Ind., has been elected president of the South Bend Chapter of the National Association of Cost Accountants. 
LEONARD H. SKOGLUND, JR., nee president and treasurer of Scully-Jones and Company, Chi­cago, III., was elected president of the Cutting Tool Manufacturers Association at a recent meeting in Detroit. 
WILLIAM J. RILEY has been elected vice president of the Indiana Bankers Association at a convention held recently at French Lick, Ind. Following custom. Bill is to succeed to the presi­dency ne.tt year. Since 1949 he has been president of the O. F. Jordan Company and executive vice president of the Riley Company, Inc. 
1939 James N. Motschall Singer-Motschall Corp. 10090 W. Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 
REUNION REGISTRANT ROBERT BOLZ. 

There are still many of our class that I have not heard from and would appreciate if you would send me your questionnaire as soon as possible. Without your help and information our class news is nothing; with your help we can continue to make our report new, interesting and informative. 
ROBERT M. ORTALE, is a pracucing laivyer in Kingston, New York. Bob was on the campus for the Oklahoma game last year at which time he saw his roommate JIM McGOLDRICK, AL KIEFER and TOM REARDON. He talked to TED FERICKS of Ohio recently and all is well with Ted. 
JAMES J. RAAF, lives in Santiago, Chile with his wife and three lovely daughters: Mary Angela, 7; Barbara Ann, 4; and Maria Elena, 1. Jim is the manager of the International Macliinery Com­pany. Jim loves South America and states that Chile is the paradise of all the Latin countries. Although Jim only gets to the States every three or four years, he is planning on being at the campus for our 20th reunion . . . the Good Lord willing. 
ED VAN HOENE is the manager of the systems procedures department of the Airborne Accessories Co. in New Jersey where he lives with his wife and eight very fine children named: Edwin Paul 14, Elizabeth 12, Martha Jean 10, Virginia Theresa 8, Clare Loretto 5, Mary Cecelia 3, Paul Joseph 2, and Catherine Marie 6 month. Ed, you must be mighty proud of that family. Ed saw JOE Mc-KEON at N. D. Club meeting and PHIL SHERI­D.AN of Rutherford. He would like to hear from BOB BOLZ and TOM HOGAN. 
MATT MERKLE is a Lt. Colonel in the United States Air Force, stationed in Wiesbaden, Germany. He has four fine children named Brian 13, Chris­tine 9, Philip 4, Maureen 7 months. Matt has been stationed in Germany for three years and has seen a great deal of Germany. It is too bad I didn't know you were there because my wife Pat and I were in Wiesbaden in May 1956. We went through 11 countries. We'll have to get together and compare notes. Matt will be stationed in the PAS of the AFROTC at Notre Dame for the next three yeais. That is one way of being on hand for our 20th reunion. The last N. D. man Matt saw was Lt. Colonel LARRY SUTTON who was in Germany, but now has transferred to the Air Force Academy here in the states (See last issue for notes on SUTTON). 
Sorry, but that is all the ne%%-s that I have re­ceived from our class. I still have hopes of hearing from the missing clan in time for our next issue tvhich goes to press in August. 
1 940 James G. Brown 
625 Madison Avenue 
New York, New York 

In re\iewing my last column I find that the opening sentence was *'our sources of info are slowly responding." Apparently everybody relaxed 
70 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
because 1 have not had any correspondence from anybody since then. Lct*s get the old penmanship mo\-ing. Had dinner recently with JIM MORAN of another class who mentioned that he had seen REX ELLIS at some of the California ND func­tions. Rex is an attorney and practidng in the Los Angeles area. Also JOHN McINTYRE who is in the Navy; is now a Lt. Comm. and is ap­parently stationed in the Los Angeles area. I think I mentioned JOHN MARTIN in our column before but he comes in for a little extra publicity having become the father of twins since our last issue. This makes four children for the household. VIN RYAN was at the reunion and has been associated in business with BILL COLEMAN. At the present time Vin is living and working in Oaltfornia. LEO SANTINI I sec, occasionally at one of the ND functions in the city. Leo's family have a prosperous mo\-ing and trucking business here in New York. JOHN SCHRODER from do\*Ti Atlanta-way is now a member of the Jesuit Fathers. I don't know where John is located at the moment but knowing the Jesuits from high school I pre­siune John is studying some place. MYLES WALSH is with the Lionel Corp. and lives out on Long Island. Have a 1940 scholarship check from NORMAN BOURKE. Norman writes Uiat he has been teaching at Auburn College at Auburn, N. V. and working on his Doctorate Degree. Tlie con­tributions keep coming in and are always welcome. Have a note here that RED BOWLER met a friend in Chicago recently. Red \%*as with the Joliet Arsenal for a while and is now with the Bridgeport Brass Co. doing sales work. We would appreciate a further word from these fellows with a little more personal data. Have some word that FATHER DICK FALLON is assigned here in 

N. Y. Dick is teaching at Bishop Du Bois High School, on the West Side. One of the pnndpals involved in an unusual shipping venture this past year was HENRY DOWT). The Italian ship u-as washed up on the shore of Scituatc, Mass. and H-as about to be abandoned when Hcnr>' and his group worked out a plan for refloating. There was an article in Fortune magazine about the venture. Will close w*ilh a plea for at least a card from your summer \'acation. We are now badly pressed for info. 
10A 1 James F. Spcllman 
James F. Spcllman Co. 
7 Eaat 42nd St 
New York 17, N. Y. 

Your secretary has just returned from a wonder­ful two-week vacation spent on Miami beach. >Vhile at a party at La Gorce Country Club, I was talking with a man from Buffalo. I mentioned that I used to ride through that city on the train on my way to school; that it always looked so cold and sno\%-y. The gentleman asked me if I was a N. D. man by chance and I said I sure was. He shook my hand and introduced himself as HENRY "HANK" BURNS, Class of 1929. He and his wife were also enjoying a little relaxation in the tropics. I promised to mention our meeting, and here it is. Mr. Bums has a son attending 
N. D. at present. Needless to say, we had a good bull session. 
Well, the letters keep coming, thank goodness. After a little prodding, JpHN O'LOUGHLIN wrote a most welcome missile. John writes the following: 
"GENE QUINN—three children; lives in I^a Jolla, Cal. Engaged in the plastic business. (Taught John how to play bridge when he was in Chicago.) 
TIM LYNCH—also has three children; works for an insurance company; and a good N. D. rooter. 
DAN BRADLEY—I have already received a swell letter from Dan; it \%'as printed in an earlier Alumnus. (Ed. Note: Dan was recently sleeted 2nd vice president of the Detroit N. D. Alumni Club. He is Detroit distn'ct manager for Shell Qicraical Co. —JC) 
BILL MARSHALL—a patent attorney for Pure Oil Co. R,ecently moved to a new home in Chicago; told John that JACK LUCAS has a good position in one of the advertising Arms in Chicago. (Sent a letter to Jack, but it came back; where are you Mr. Lucas?) 
JAY REYNOLDS—five youngsters and another one expected. Jay was at the reunion, if my memory ser\'es me correctly. John thinks Jay is in the steel warehousing business. 
REN CUTLIP and his wife, Angie, (they hail from 
WILLIAM H. 0*BRIEN, '40 

The new vice president of finance at Shulton, Inc., nationally known manufacturer of Old Spice for men, is William H. O'Brien, a member of the 1940 Glass. The company also makes pharmaceuticals, chemicals and other toiletries. 
Bill, after graduation, was with the American Business Credit Corporation in New York City as a traveling analyst. He served with the 8th Air Force in England, Belgium and Germany dur­ing 1942-1945. After the war he re­turned to the ABC Corporation as an assistant to the president. In 1948 he was made vice president in charge of the company's Chicago branch. 
For three years, from 1950 to 1953, Bill was vice president and director of Raybur Corporation (financial consult­ants) in New York City. Before being named vice president of Shulton, he was appointed comptroller in 1954. Bill is married to his Notre Dame room­mate's sister, the former Dolores Smith, and they have one daughter, Maureen, 
4. He is a member of the Comptrollers Institute of America, Notre Dame Club of New Jersey, American Management Association and has been active in various civic affairs. 
North Bend, Oregon) v'isited Chicago in November on their way back from Dayton where they saw Bill Hoyne. Ren is in the ice cream manufacturing business, and also a frozen foods distributor. At a dinner party, the CUTLIPS, FRANK KENNEDYS. BILL STURMS (Haskins & Sells) and E.MMET NEaVSES (Insurance) and BOB KENNYS (Iaw>-er). 
Rea and Angie were godparents for Kennedr** fifth child. (Hey, Frank; how about a letter?) 
JOHNNY MEYER, of DanviUe, rejected state senator and ^pointed to a really live committee— Public Utilities. 
BILL MAUREY—lives io Ivanhoe with his family works in advertising department of Archdioscesan newspaper. New World. 
CLARENCE "RUBE** MARQUARDT (saw Rube at the reunion) an Oldsmofaile dealer in Oak Park, I guess. (0\%-n one myself, partner.) 
RAY KELLY from Flint, Mich. A stockbroker and branch manager for the ^^^Uiam G. Roney Co. Has five children. 
John, himself, is a district traffic manager for Illinois Bell Telephone Co. Just noticed as I was-t>-ping this that Frank Kennedy is also with the telephone company. The above data from Ren Cutlip on has been supplied by Frank. Thanks, Frank. AJid many thanks to you, John." 
A note from BOB BISCHOFF. Bob is Pennsyl­vania district sales manager for Merchants Creamery Co. His address is 1033 Overlook Avenue, Cin­cinnati 38, Ohio. Bob has had a nm of bad luck, but his fiuth in N. D. ideab has helped him through his difficulties. Very best of good luck to you, Bob. 
A most welcome letter from JERRY 0*DOWD> whom I last saw on Saipan. I was loading bombs on a ship berthed near Jerry*$ LST or LCI. (1 never got na\y ships identified right.) He had just returned from the picket line around Iwo Jima where he had taken a pounding. We had a wonderful time gassing about everythii^ while we Were close by. 
Jerry and wife, Ruthie, welcomed their fint child last June. Must have been just about reunion time. The>- named him, Tom. Jerry, at the time he uTote to me, was waiting to be admitted before the 
U. S. Supreme Court, on March 31, in Washington. We all wish you success, son. Ah item in the Fort Wa>-ne, Ind., Neu-s-Sentinel, dated Dec. 22, 1956, describes Jerry's narration of Midnight Mas» over radio station WOWO. It also lists Jerry** many affiliations with law, fraternal and veta groups. He is also a member of the Knights of Columbus, 4th Degree. 
A brief but welcome note from high in the 
Andes Mts. of La Paz, BoUna; BILL CARSON> 
with the American Embassy, 12,0(X) feet up. (How 
can you breathe way up there, BDl? I got woozy 
on top of Pike's Peak!) Bill is business manager 
for Agriculture in the U. S. Mutual Aid program. 
This program extends from the tropical tributaries 
of the Amazon up through the cold barren pla­
teaus of the Andes. Bill and wife Mary have three 
children, attending school taught in Spanish by 
Sisters from Italy. Thanks, Bill. Any news is 
always welcome. 
From JOHN LANDRY at MaxweU AFB: Al Per­
rine*s letter prompted John to write, and we're real 
glad be has written. John's address is 654 Hubbard 
St., Montgomery 6, Alabama. He has been in the 
military aviation business since 1941, mostly in 
the training end. Flew B-24's in England and 
F-51's in Korea. Been In aircraft maintenance for 
the past 10 years. Married to a "Texas blonde, 
no oil wells!" since 1946 and they have two 
adopted children. John was with HQ, ATC for 
Command & Staff School; he leaves in June for 
San Bernadino, Cal, to become directorate of Flight 
Safety Research. When he arrived in Ala. John 
had a small reunion with LARRY (Lt. Col.) Bfo-
LAUGHLIN, PAUL (Major) BROWNFIELD and 
CHUCK (Major) KELLY, of '40. Paul,. whom 
John met once in Tokyo In 1950, goes to the 
Pentagon in June. Paul took part in Operation 
CANUSA, a joint exercise with the RCAF. 
John also talked with TOMMY SHEIL'S (Ex. '41J a few times in Dallas. HARRY Mc. came from Denver where he had been in the ROTC work for 6ve years; has six children. Twin brother LARRY is now a civilian back in Detroit and also has sbc children. 
CARD OLIVEROS is in base operations. John last saw him in 1948 at Chanute Field. Card, ac­cording to John, recently completed graduate studies at Stanford and is at Wright AFB. I saw Card at the reunion, John, but didn't get to talk much with him. 
CHUCK KELLY came to Ala. from the Pent­agon. John and Chuck graduated from flying school at Albany, Ga. in 1942. Chuck will return to Washington, D. C. 
Forgot to mention that H.\RRY McLAUGHLIN goes to Kimpo, Korea from Kfaxwell. JOHN HENEBRY, (now a Major General, USAF, I believe, according to the Reservist Magarine) was at MaxH-ell in April. Gen. Hcnebry is the youngest 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September, 1957 71 
OKLAHOMA CITY—Haskell Aske^v (standing) was named *Man of the Year' at the club's UND Night meeting. Bishop Eugene J. McGuinness is seated. 
general ofEcer in the AF, so I read. COL. GA­BRESKI, ex N. D , U CO. of an F-IOOD outfu at Myrtle Beach, S. C. (Was there Saturday on my way home from sunny Florida). Great work. John. Write me any time with ajiyHilng at all. 

Just before I went to Florida on May 3, ARAIAND LOPEZ came up to my ofHce. Annand is Export Sales Mgr. for the Bowman Products Co. of Cleveland^ He travels extensively both domestic and foreign. Has t^vo children, slrh, aged 11 and 6. Armand had been in Mexico for five yean> until three years ago. He is back in Cleveland but expects to be on the move before long. While he was in the office, I called JOE GUILTINEX. Joe is with General Motors Parts, Chevrolet DiW­sion, here in New York. Joe wants to get to­gether for lunch and I will have a better report on him later. He and Armand were both at tlir reimion. 
That's about all for this session, classmates. Please keep me posted as to your location and activity. Your fellow alumni always like to read of your doings. Fifteen years is a long time, and your letters help bridge the gap. Eyen if you don*t have news of anybody but yourself, please let us know about you. All ol the letters that I have received express genuine pleasure over hearing of activities of the '4Iers. 
So, tmtil the next time, this is your secretary rigning off. 

From the Alumni office: CHARLES J. (CHUCK) FARRELL is teaching at Phoenix Union High School in PhocnLXj Arizona. is married and the father of eight c:hildren. 
1040 AVilliam £. Scanlan 
• '^ ^ 400 East nith Street Chicago 28, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANTS 

ANGELO AiLVrO. ER^VIN ARANOWSKI, JAMES ASMUTH, LAWRENCE AUBREY. DAVID BAG­LEY, JOHN BARRY. FREDERICK BECKAUN, 
JACK BERGEN, JOHN BERMINGHAM, JOHN BISESE, GEORGE BLATT, ALPHONSUS BRAUN, WILLLVM BRECKWOLDT, BERNIE BREHL, LEO BURBY, JIM BURKHART, MIKE CARR, THO.MAS CARROLL, JOE CHAMPLEY, JOHN CLIFFORD, THONfAS CODY. FRANK CON­CANNON, CHARLES CONGER, JAMES CON­WAY, BERNIE CRIXLMINS, THOMAS DILLON. JOSEPH DIMOND, JIM DOYLE, EDWARD DUNLAVY, DONALD FIGEL, PAT FITZ­GERALD, FRANK FOX, JOHN GARVEY, TOM GESELBRACHT, JOHN GILBERT, EDWARD GLASER, ANDREAV GORKA, STEVE CRALIKER, ED GRIESEDIECK, JOHN GRIFFIN, VICTOR GULYASSY, DON GUYETTE. DAVID HACK, EDWARD HACKETT, ROBERT HARGRAVE, ROBERT HARRINGTON, JOHN HART, WALTER HEEKIN, WILLIAM HICKEY, MIKE HINES, DONALD HOGAN, BYRON KANALEY, EM­METT KEEN.AN, LARRY KELLEY, MAURICE KELLY, WILLUM KENNEDY, JOHN KIRBY, JACK LADKY, JA.MES LEISING, BOB LEVER­NIER, PAUL LILLIS, CHARLES LOHR, ROBERT LYSAGHT, WILLIAM McAULIFFE, RICHARD McHUGH, HOWARD McINTOSH, EDWARD MC­LAUGHLIN, CHARLES McMAHON. DANIEL McNAAWRA, CHUCK McNEIL, KENNETH Mc-NEVIN, JAMES McNULTY, JAMES McVAY, TED MacDONALD, WILLIAM MADDEN, ROBERT MADDOCK, JOHN AULONE, ED MANGELS­DORF, WILLIAM MARSHALL, DONALD MARTIN, FRANK MEEHA.N, ROBERT MILLER, WALTER MINDER, EMMETT MORAN, WIL­LIAM MORROW, PETER MOULDER. THOMAS NASH, J. WADE NODA, DON O'BRIEN, FRANK O'DOWD, RICHARD OWENS, PAUL PATTEN, CARROLL PITKIN, FRANK POLLNOW, ARTHUR POPE, THOMAS POWERS, JAMES PURCELL, FRANCIS QUIN'N, ROBERT RAAF, WILLIAM REGAN. JOSEPH RORICK, RAY ROY, GENE SCHUMAKER, K. JOSEPH SHEEDY, ROBERT SHEEHAN, DAN SHOUVLIN. ROBERT SIBILSKY, JOHN STAUBER, GEORGE SUPP­LITT, PAUL TAFEL, BILL TOBIN, FRANK VEIT, THOMAS ^VALKER, LEONARD \VOLFE, BOB WRIGHT AND BILL YAEGER. 
104 3 *^°^ ^* ^^sgins 
4800 Fairlawn Drive 
LaCanada, California 

Continuing with the information gathered from the fine response to the questionnaire: JULIAN ATWATER works for the research laboratory of Swift & Co. at the Chicago stockyards. He has four children, two bo>*s and two ^rls. He says his senior year roommate, WAYNE SHRI\VISE is farming and raising cattle. Wayne has four chil­dren. JEROME CORDES is an M.D. practicing in Lansing, Allch. He has two boys and a girl. He'll be looking for BILL ABOOD at the reunion. CHARLIE BUTLER travels the Southwest for Commercial Shearing & Stamping of Youngstown. He has four boys and three girls—that gives him a few reserves for a babketball team. One of Charlie's basketball buddies REX ELLIS is a fellow La Canadan. JOE KEENAN is Wee president of the Edu'ards Electric Co., Chicago contracting engineers. Joe has three children; he is a member of the AEC for the State of Illinois. FRANK KING works for the Allstate Insurance Co. in Hicksnlle, L. I., N. Y. He has three boys. His senior year roomie, JOHN BOYLE works for a Long Island daily, "Newsday." GEORGE HUTH travels the countiy Irom home base, Jackson, Miss, as an independent consultant management engineer. He would like to hear from WALDO WTLSON, BILL WARNICK, and LOUIE KURTZ. You can reach him at 450 Dunbar St. WALTER GRADY reports from Wright-Patlerson AFB where he is an aeronautical engineer that he plans to make the reunion. He is married and has a son. FATHER TO.M ATKINS writes from St. Helen Parish, 2006 Deindorfcr St., Saginaw, Mich, that he is First Assistant at the Parish and Chaplain for the 
V.A. He would like to hear from GEORGE THOMPSON and JOHN DUGGAN. BOB ROGERS is a St. Paul (Minn.) insurance man. He plans to take in the 15 year reunion. 
LEO LINCK practices law in Muskegon, Mich. He has one boy and two girls. STE\ ^ ENSER works for the Diversified OH & Mining Corp., Mile High Center, Denver, Colo. He is married \v\i\i two boys and a girl. BUD GANS is an ad­ministrative engineer for Boeing's Wichita plant. Budd is the father of five children. DR. DICK MILLER practices obstetrics and g>'necology in Waterloo, Iowa. He has two boj's and a girl. Dick filled out the questionnaire before leaving for last season's Iov%'a game. Ouch! The old Mt. Carmel flash, buddy DICK CREEVY writes tliat he is associated with Western Medical Corp., Chicago. He has four boys and a giri. FATHER JOHN FRAWLEY is stationed at St. Paul of the Cross Church, Columbia City, Ind. He recommends the classmate with the most kids as a Spotlight Alumnus, ^faybe ye old cd. Cackley will run such a panel spread for *43! Likely candidate ED DUQUESTTE has seven: four boys, three girls. He works for the pride of Ft. Wayne. Magnavox Co. CARL COCO manages Coco's Shoe Store, Lake Charlos, La. He would like to hear from BOB CORRIGAN and SAM MEYERS; they can write him at 108 W. 15th St. Carl is the father of five children. Architect BOB HACKNER heads the La Crosse, \iac. firm Robert Hackner & Asso­ciates, Inc. His roommate, F. W. KASPER heads Rahway Motors, Fairmont. Minn. FATHER BOB PELTON, now rector of Civanaugh \v2s ordained in *49, received his doctorate in Rome. Father writes that he hears frequently from BILL SHEA who is in personnel work for Armour, Chicago meat packers. DICK HEISER of Hciser Jewelry Co., Hannibal, Mo. writes that he has three cJiil­drcn. He visited JATE RADEMAKER last fall in Afarlon, Ind. Jatc is a Marlon. Ind. Coca-Cola bottler. Cari occasionally sees BOB TORENCE who is connected with G. S. Robins Chemical Co. HANK REILLY is raising his family of two boys and two girls In Manchester, Conn. He works for the Southern New England Telephone Co. DICK MILLIMAN plans to make the 15 year reunion coming dovv-n from Detroit where he is employed by GM's Detroit Diesel Engine Di%ision. FATHER KEVIN O'DOHERTY is stationed at Sacred Heart Church, VIncland, N. J. where he is chaplain to the fire department. FRED HOTH is teclinlcal and quality control manager for Ben Mont Papers, Inc., No. Bennington, Vt. Fred is widowed with sc\*cn cliildrcn, two boj-s and five girls. WALT HEIN is employed by General Elec­tric in Ft. ^Vayne as a project engineer. He is a scoutmaster; Walt has five children. AL CLARKE is company magazine eililor and publicist for Con­goIeum-Naim. He is also publicist for his home­town (Washington Township, N. J.) Republican club. He has two sons. GUS ZUEHLKE is a 
\-ice president of ihc Appleton (Wis.) Stale Bank. He is active in civic organizations. 
FR/WK CONFORTI is associated with Tuition Plan, Inc., New York City. Frank has three chil­dren. JOHN STONEMAX owns and operates Stoneraan Funeral Home, Sturgeon Bay, Wise. John has a son and two daughters. He plans to attend the 15 year reunion. LOU RYMKUS, father of twin boys, has been line coach for the Green Bay Packers for (he past three seasons. JIM McELROY writes that he hears from STEVE ENSNER every-blue moon. He encountered PAT DONOVAN and his wife in a chance meeting in New York City recently. Pat was in town briefly between assign­ments overseas. Jim's employer, Sfutual Broadcast­ing carried all ND games last year and as a result Jim was able lo take in the games. Jim has three sons and a daughter. FRED DEWES is empoycd as a senior methods rep resent at ix'e for Addresso­grnph-Multigraph Corp. Fred would like to hear from DUD SMITH. FRED HOOVER is a Seattle lawyer, a member of the firm of Clarke Stone & Hoover. Fred has five cliildrcn. Former manager GEORGE THOMPSON is in the Air Force sta­tioned at Arlington. George will be looking for all Ihc managers at the 15 year reunion. BOB LE MENSE is a member of the law firm of Whvtc, Hirschbocck & Minahan. Milwaukee, Wise. REV. BEDE A. FFTZPATRICK, O.F.M. is assistant pastor at St. Joseph's parish, Winstcd, Conn. Fitz's senior year room mate JOHN HUNT is director of North American Newspaper .Alliance, Times Bldg., New York City. JOHN BEHR is Field Scout Executive of the Mohican Council of the B. S. A., Glen Falls, N. Y. TO.M SWEENEY writes from Indianapolis, Ind. that he is employed by the Ransburg Electro-Coating Co. Tom has three sons. BOB OVERMEYER works for Conti­nental Can's flexible packaging division. Bob liv<^ in Mount Vernon, Ohio. OLLIE HUNTER writes from Erie, Pa. that he is still with the Bureau. Last he heard BILL JOHNSON after his fling at Holl\*wood has retired to sheep ranching in the Dakotas. OIlic saw JOHN McHALE at an Erie baseball dinner. John has recently been appointed general manager of the Detroit Tigers. R. E. BROOKS is attached to the Cleveland VA Hospital. He lives In nearby Parma. TED POWERS moved to Houston. Texas from Milwaukee over seven years ago and has been selling insurance there for Mutual of New* York since. Another insturancc man, BILL MAHON', is associated with National of Hartford in Newark, X. J. He has three children. JOHN RIORDAX, M.D. can be reached at San Maieo Community Hospital in California. John would like to hear from SAM ROWBOTTO.M, JEROME CORDES and BILL SWEE-XEY. JOHN GARCE.-VU has seven children: three boys, four girls. He works for Eric Heilo Co. in Chicago selling over­head cranes and hoists. JOHN' POWERS is em­ployed by the J. Walter Thompson public relations department. John has four children. He would like to know what happened to his roommate TOM 
.McCREEDY. DR. JI.M MURR.VY practices den­tistr>- at 41 E. 57th St., New York. PAUL TIERNEY works for jVssociatcs Discount Corp., Albany, N. Y. He has two sons. 
ED CLEiVRV works in Syracuse for the Elec­tronics lab of GE. His roommate JOHN DUNN works at the Naval Research Lab in Washington. JOHX DEXXEY is with Air j\ssociates. Orange, 
N. J. He has a daughter. John plans to attenti the 15 year reunion. HOWARD MARLOW left in Januar>* for Neuss am Rhcin, Germany where he has been transferred as auditor for International Harvester. Howard will miss the reunion since he will not return to the States until 1960. ADRIAN P.ADON is associated with Padon S: Padon a partnership engaged in oil exploration around Casper, Wyoming. Adrian would like to hear from OAK PARKER. JOHN WALSH. You can rcacli him, John, at Box 153, Casper, Wyo. Notre Dame power plant engineer, KEN KEAIPF says that if he can scrape up the car fare he will be on hand for the big reunion. 
I OAA George Bariscillo 
• ^^ ^ 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
REUNION REGISTRANT JOHN F. MURPH\\ 
HENRY "HANK" ADAM was recently trans­ferred from the Charleston, W. Va. plant of the du Pont Co. to the home office at Wilmington, Del. He reports corresponding occasionally with JOHN MORRISON who is stud>-ing higher mathe­matics at Notre Dame in preparation for computer work. And with "Hank" at Wilmington is MANNY ZIEGLER, who was a chemistry* major from South Bend, and is now mixing concoctions for the du Pont Co. *'Hank" also reports seeing E/\RL ENGLEHART as he breezes through Wilmington on business. 
Sad news for the bachelor ranks of our class as JACK McCfXBE removes his name from the roster with a June 1st wedding date with Mar>- Decgan of Hastings-on-Hudson, New York. 
Wc understand BILL AM/VNN is now field man­ager for the Curtis Circulation Co. and that JOHN ANHUT'S hotel operations in Detroit arc continuing to prosper. And word Is received from Joliet, III. that DOM BOETTO has a fine law-practice and is winning even the "impossible ones." Dom is also president of the X. D. Alumni Club in Joliet. 
BERNIE BOWLING Is operating a bakery in Louisville. At last count his little ones numbered seven. 
WALLY CHRIST.MAN is president and general manager of the Green Bay (Wis.) Foundry & Machine Works. 
DICK McC/\BE Is a partner In the law-firm of McCabe & McCabe in Poughkcepsie, New York. Last word we had from JLM ME/\GHER he was living In Louisville and general manager of the Anclior Division of Strallon & Terslcgge at their Xew Albany, Ind. plant. 
D.WID J. CURTIN has recently been named as­sistant to the president of The Haloid Company In Rochester, New York. Haloid manufactures photographic papers and photo-copying equipment and supplies together with xerographic units which operate on an electrostatic principle to produce dry. positive prints of anything written, typed, printed or drawH. 
Since 1952, Dave has been radio-TX' director of Rogers & Porter advertising agency and the Genesee Brewing Company, and. prior to that time, was radio play-by-play announcer of Rochester baseball and basketball games. 
Dave Is a member of the Xotrc Dame Club of Rochester and lives with his wife, Peggx", and their five children at 106 Overbrook Road. 
From DR. THO.MAS PUCHNER: I was married on Febniar\- 2, 1957, to Dorothy' M. Swietlik (Marquette University B.S. '50) of Milwaukee, Wisconsin. I finished my training in Internal Medicine at Milwaukee County General Hospital last year. I am presently working In Cardloi-ascular research at Marquette University School of Medicine. I am particularly interested In hyper­tension and its cITcct on the heart. 
FRED NESBIT Is a partner in the Xesbit Dis­tributing Co. (beer) in Des Moines, Iowa. And with that refreshing bit of news wc come to the end of the line for this trip. But first, the old 

familiar wail . . . and 1*11 make it brief . . . 
how about dropping me a line or two this summer? 
Sure could use some help! 
104 c AI Lesmez I y-Ti» J22 TuIIamorc Road Garden City, N. Y. 
PARTY POOPERS Sometime back your secretary had the nerve to call a few of the members of the class party poopcrs. This was done in light vein to highlight a few of the people who still had not paid their class dues. Quite a few people took this vcr>­indignantly, a few others took it as a good in­centive to pay their dues. After checking with BILL MOORE, class trea­surer, your class secretary wants to report that more than ever we have some ver>- definite P/VRT\' POOPERS in our class who have not done anything to meet our request for five dollars to cover the expenses of a growing class. 
Please take this any way you wish, and If it applies and If It hurts please sit down and write out that five dollar check, made payable to the Class of *45, and mail It to Bill Moore at 720 Irving Place, Plalnfield, New Jersey. 
LOCAL SCENE I have been extremely busy these last few weeks with a very big meeting for the alumni in Long Island, a meeting in which TERRY BRENNAX u-as guest speaker, and In which we were fortunate enough to have PAT CANN'Y, President of the Xational Association. The meeting was Co-Chalr­mancd by DICK DIG.VN, of our Class. Another tremendous assist was given by JIM DOXXELLY, who looks just as young and energetic as the day he graduated. TONY ErVRLEY, another '45 ce­lebrity sat on the dais,' bav-ing been chosen as the Xotrc Dame Man of the Year by the New York Club. In all, the Class of '45 was \'ery well rep­resented In this highly successful local affair. 
CH.\NGES OF ADDRESS The following are new addresses which the alumni office and your secretary' have received in the last month: JIM BAUMGARTNER, lJt7 Ever­green, AVest Bend, Wis.j DR. BOB BLrVCKHURST,. Blackhurst Bldg., Main Street, Midland, Mich,; JOHN BROZO, 5817 N. Oxford St., Indianapolis, Ind.; TOM BRUNDAGE, 566 Donaldson, San .An­tonio, Texas; DR. BILL CL.ARKE, 9 Andrea Lane, Bloomlield, Conn.; DR. BILL FRANTZZI, 701 E. Brou-ard Blvd., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; GER^\LD FREEL.\ND, 2214 Oriole Terrace, Long Beach, .Miclilgan City, Ind.; CRIST HERRING, 3411 Memorial Ave., Lynchburg, Va.; PAUL HURD, 5219 W. 69th Terrace, Prairie \nilagc 15, Kansas; JOSEPH INCE, unclaimed (who can help fill this in?); JOSEPH LONG, 405 Main Ave., Clarks 
Meiiibers of the Flying Irish squadron, a Navy air unit in World War H, attended a luncheon meeting during Reunion Weekend. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 
Summit. Pa.; FRANK MILLER, 3035 AVinsicn, Toledo. Ohio; DR. ^^NCE^•T MURPHY, 6305 Stardust Lane, Los Altos, Cal.; BOB REARDON, unclaimed (lost man, help!); TONY RENZE, 210 \Vilson Avenue, Union Town, Pa.; LEO RUOF, 84 Belmont Dr., Little Rock, Ark,; DR. BERNARD SCHOO, 2512 ANTiilticr Ave., Loubnlle, Ky.; FRED BIGGS, RFD No. 1, Mac Alpine PI., Elli­cott Cit>-. Md.; DR. FRANK KELLY, 36 Seafirth Rd., Tiburon, Cal.; WALT McDERMOTT. 839­63rd Place, Kenosha, Wis.; PATRICK SUTHER­LAND, 30+ Sprint Street, Seattle 4, Wash. 
Another member of the class who is "lost" is RAUL E. CASTRO, whose last address is Avenida Guacaipuro, N. 58, Apartment 2, El Rosal, Cara­cas, Venezuela. Can anyone help to locate him? 
DID VOU KNOW WH.\T DEPARTMENT Did you know that DICK ^\'HmNG, of 18150 Cambridge, Lathrup Village. Michigan, and his wife Mar>- Ann, have two little girls . . . that one is eight years old, Kathleen Mar>- . . . and that the baby of the family is 18-monlh old Margaret Mary . . . that Dick is working in sales admin­istration as sectional \icc president for the Whiting Tubular Products, Inc. . . . that he sees several Detroit alumni such as TOMMY SHEEHAN, TOM DORE, ALMA and DICK MILLIMON, and ED and DAVE ROONEY, JIM BYRNE and many others . . . that RICHARD J. LAITE is living at 309 West Dorothy Lane, Dayton 9, Ohio with his wife Barf>ara and their son Mark Ricli­ard . . . that Dick is working for Applied Research, Inc. as senior engineer since January of 1956 . . - that he is presently at Wright-Paterson Air Force Base doing rcsearcJi and development on a consulting basis . . . that prior to his present job, Dick was in the Xa^y between 1945 and 1946, then at Notre Dame until 1957 . . . that be­tween 1947 and I94B he was at the University of Michigan getting a masters in Aero . . . that be­tween June 1948 to Sept. 1950 he was at a re­search association at Michigan, later obtaining a teaching fellowship tmtil 1932 at the same school . . . that between June 1952 to November 1955 Dick took the studies required for a Ph.D. and took his exams on November 18, 1955 . . . that on November 19, 1955 he passed an even tougher test—a test for a whole lifetime—by getting married . . . that a 6-week trip to California by auto and a flight to Acapuico, Mexico, brought him right up to the January- 1956 when he began with Applied Research, Inc. .. . that wc wish Dick the very best of luck in his family and his work . . . that this column is of necessity short because YOU have not written me lately and I need information about YOUR activities to make it interesting for our classmates. Need I say more? So'long for now. 
From the Alumni office: DR. RAYMOND F. BADDOUR has been pro­moted to associate professor at ^lassachusctts Institute of Technology-. He joined the Institute staff in 1948 as assistant director of the Engineer­ing Practice School at Oak Ridge. 
1 94A J^** Tengc Jr. I y-fM 2025 West Six Mile Road Detroit 3, Michigan 
1947 Jack Miles 
• '^ ' 3218 BenUey Lane South Bend, Indiana 
REUNION REGISTRAN'TS 
BILL ARCHIBALD, JIM ATKINSON, JOHN BEAU, O. G. CANNAVO, ED CAPARO, FRANCIS COLEMAN, JOSEPH DITTRICH, REV. JOHN DRISCOLL, JOHN EGAN, CLINTON FIRE­STONE, DONALD FISHER, ROBERT FITZ­PATRICK, JACK FREE\L\N. JOHN GALLO­WAY, FRANK GaHOOLEY, FRANK GIOR­DANO, JOHN GLAAB, ROBERT GORSKI, TIM GREEN, JAMES GRIFFIN, BARRETT GUTHRIE, JAMES HOFFMAN, DR. A. L. KUNTZ, JOHN ULL, JAMES E. McCLINTOCK, ^^^LLUM Mc-CORMICK, LEX McCOY. DONNELLY Mc-DONALD, DONALD McGRATH, EDWARD MADVAY, JOHN ^L\RTIN, JOHN MASTRAN­GELO, ELMER iUTTHE\VS. JACK MILES. FRANCIS MOORE. JOHN MULLEN, JAMES MURPHY, JACK MYERS, PATRICK NOLAN, ROBERT PALLARDY, PAUL QUALY. FRED ROVAI, PETER RUCANO, ROBERT RUSSELL. JAMES SATTLER. KEN SCHUSTER, JOE SHARP, BOB SHAW, JAMES SHERIDAN. BRUCE SILL, FRANK SZYMANSKI, ROBERT 
JAMES L. BOURKE, '33 
James L. Bourke has been named a vice president of the D'Arcy Adver­tising Company at a meeting of the Board of Directors held in St. Louis. 
Married and the father of five chil­dren, Jim makes his home in Cleveland Heights. O., at 2688 Scarborough Road. He currently is account execu­tive on The General Tire and Rubber Company account for D'Arcy, one of the nation's largest advertising agencies. He began his career after graduation as a reporter on The Cleveland Press and later joined Foster & Davies Adver­tising Agency in Cleveland to handle all national advertising in connection with the General Electric Company "Hour of Charm" radio program. He became associated with D'Arcy in 1946 after serving as a lieutenant in the United States Na\y during World AVar II. 
TEWKSBURY, JERRY ^VAYNO, BOB ^VHTTE, 
J. LA^\^lENCE WILLENBRINTC AND REV. HAROLD ZINK, C.S.C. 
Attendance at the 10-year reunion ^^•as somewhat disappointing, particularly when compared with the l&t-man turnout for the Class of *52 with whom we shared Morrissey Hall. 
But the fellou-s ^\ho were back comprised a con­genial group, and all agreed that the weekend was a memorable one and whetted their appetites for a bigger and better reunion In 1962. 
A feature of the class dinner Friday night was the election of ofRccrs, with JOHN MASTRAN­GELO nosing out both ELMER "MOOSE" MATTHEWS and JIM SHERIDAN by a i.-ote for the presidcno*. For the former .All-American guard who notv lives in Leechburg, Pa., it is the second term in the office, since he was our first president from 1947 to 1952. 
In line with a new directive from the Alumni office, we elected four regional \-ice presidents: JACK GALLOWAY of Albany, N. Y., for the East; JIM ATKINSON of Mt. Prospect, 111., for the AHdwest; BUD WILLENBRINK of LouIsWlIe, Kv., for the South, and JOHN GLAAB of Anaheim, Calif., for the West. JOE SHARP, a CPA from South Bend, was unanimous choice for treasurer. 

In the absence of retiring president SAM ADELO, %\'ho£e duties with the State Department prevented his being with us, outgoing \"icc president FRANK SZYM/\NSKI ser\cd as emcee for the short meet­ing after the whitcfisU dinner in the dining hall. Tlie adeptncss at banter which seems to characterize successful politicians—he's the Auditor General of Michigan—was very much in evidence as Frank played for laughs and handed out sucti mementoes as a bottle of h:ur dye to BILL "POP" Mc-CORMICK, a comb to balding JOE CANNAVO, and a pair of miniature pink garters to bachelor MOOSE MATTHEWS. 
Two of our classmates who arc Holy Cross priests honored us with their presence for portions of the weekend: FATHER JOHN A. DRISCOLL, assistant pastor of St. Patrick's Church in South Bend, who said the Saturday morning Mass for our deceased classmates, and FATHER HAROLD 
C. ZINK, assistant at the huge Sacred Heart parish in New Orleans, La. 
No less than 17 states were represented at the reunion, Indiana leading the «"ay with a dozen representatives. Illinois sent eight; Michigan seven; Ohio six; New York and Penns>'Ivania four each; California three; Massachusetts two, and there was one each from Connecticut, Kentucky, Louisiana, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Jersey, Okla­homa, and Wisconsin. 
Alt members of the class join me, I'm sure, in thanking JIM MURPHY and his committeemen for the splendid groundwork tlicj- did In prepara­tion for this successful reunion. Responding to Jim's masterminding were a small but eager band composed of JOE SHARP, ED BALL, JOE LE/\HY, PETE RU&VNO, and myself. 
WISPS FROM THE WEEKEND: The class's counterpart to Democrat politico FRANK SZY­MANSKI is DONNELLY McDONALD, elected last year to the state legislature on the Republican ticket in his home city of Fort Wa\-ne; he's a leading advocate of home rule for the Hoosicr state . . . DR. AL KUNTZ heads the medical setup at the Aerojet General plant in Sacramento, Calif., and reports the cigarette findings presented to the recent AMA convention in New York were sensational in evcr>- sense of the word . , . JOHN GLAAB hauled his family—six in all, including his motlicr—all the way from California In a 14-ft. housetrailcr, and BOB SHAW—first '47 man to register—brought his wife and two adopted daughters from Tulsa for a look-see at the campus, so beautiful in the spring of the year . . . GENE MOORE and his wife (the former Joan MoIIoy) dropped their four toddlers off at Lorain, O., enroutc from Reading, Mass.; she attended the St. Mary's lO-ycar get-together the same week­end . . . BUD WILLENBRINK—who hasn't missed a Kentucky Derby since 1941 but who slept through all weekend activities—bore some impressive scratches as a result of an accident which could easily have been more serious; for­getting he was In an upper bunk Friday night, he rolled out of It! . . . BOB TEWKSBURY pioneered a new trend In men's fashions Saturday —a brown suit and blue sneakers! . . . Six of Frank Leahy's former linemen (KEN SCHUSTER, FRED ROVAI, BOB ^\'Hr^E, SZYMANSKI, .MASTRANGELO, and GLAAB) exchanged squad memories all Saturday afternoon whilst soaking up the sun in front of Morrissc>-; aggregate weight— 1,400 pounds! 
BOB MULCAHY, tvho had planned to drive out with FRANK PELLITERI from his home in Wantagh, N. Y., wrote regrets that the plans had fallen through; Bob and his -wife, Doris, have two sons and are expecting a third child In October, and he and his father maintain a law office in nearby Mineola. 
In closing, let mc insert a couple of serious thoughts. First of all, I'll be satisfied to do half as well as JIM MURPHY in this business of being class secretar>'. Of this I'm confident: If you men of '47 will be generous with cards and letters and calls bearing information of interest to all of iis, the job will be a pleasure and a breeze. 
Secondly, a collection taken up at our class dinner netted $88. The unhappy fact is that in the coming five years some of our number will die, and that number will increase as the years roll by. Some of that $88 has already gone to defray incidental expenses. incurred by the reunion com­mittee, but the bulk of it is earmarked for Requiem Masses. 
74 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-Septemherj 1957 
Tlierc's no duubt in my mind thai many of you who weren't able to make the reunion would like to contribute a dollar or two or more to this fund,^ Just send your ofTcrins to me and I'll see that it is delivered to our treasurer and credited to your name. 
Keep this in mind: 
Your £ccrctar>* slews Right! For u^nt of news WRITE! 

A letter from DR. TOM DOOLEY, in Nam Tha, Laos, to DEAN BALDINGER of the College of Science: 
*'Lct mc describe my hospital to you. The village of Nam Tha is the northernmost tip of Laos. We arc less than ten miles south of China, a few dozen miles east of Bunna, and near the Communist Phong Saly Patliet Lao Province. It is exactly halt a, world away from Noire Dame, and on the edge of tomorrow. 
Our hospital compound consists of three build­ings. The main one, recently finished by the people for mc, is a mud brick, white washed clinic build­ing, with a room for sick call, one for surger>*, and one used as a deliver>' room, and anything else . . . Tlien across the front lawn (whicli is really a buffalo wallow in these monsoon months) we have a group of two identical buildings, high on bamboo stilts (protection from tiger] and made of bamboo and thatch. These are our two wards, one clean, one dirty. The clean has 18 beds, /American style, and dirty had 20 mats, Lao style. Doth arc painted K.eUy green on the inside, the outside is natural bamboo color. 
Clinic runs about 80 to 100 per day, diseases most commonly encountered are upper re5pinitor>* infections (nights are bitter cold, days warm, weather deep in the monsoon mud), plenty of hemoptysis which I label tuberculosis for lack of X-ray, and treat accordingly, though ambulatory. Then we have a lot of yaws, tropical ulcers, malaria (259£) fungus infections, and leprosy. The yaws and ulcers need only antibiotics and good hygienic cleansing and dressing. The Lao witcli doctors treat with tobacco juice, betel nut juice, cow dung, and ginger root (prognosis, poor). We smear only about every tenth malaria, history is enough to make the diagnosis. The fungus infec­tions need only soap and water, and the lepers We can do little for save treat their secondary Infections. 
Our *'clean" ward at the hospital has several verebral malarias, one black (and I mean black) water fever, several kids with fulmunatlng lobar pneumonia, (how c>-anotic can a child get). Then we have a few post operative hernias, Cacsarean sections, and hair lips. The dirty ward has three lepers, a dozen yaws, and other assorted infectious cases. 
We do surgcr>* cver>' other day, save emergencies. Wc have a small generator (the first one in this village) which vve use only for the surgical lamp, and on alternating nights, for movies. Spinals, open drip ether, and locals arc our anesUietics. 
I originally had three ex-Xa\'y corpsmen (the same who were with me In Viet Nam). My mis­sion was Intended to be only one of six months. But the ro>-alties are still coming in from my book and the movie rights, and my medicines are holding out, so I have decided to stay here *tilt broke. Tills should be July or so. 
As two of my men were married, and had duties to their families, they returned to /Vmerica at the end of the six months. I paid them no salary, and couldn't expect them to stay on. 
To replace these I have two students from Notre Oame, John de Vitr>', and Bob Waters. Though neither know a bandald from a hemostat, or a leper from ^vhooping cough, they arc rapidly learn­ing . . . and sufTering a bit in the process. They had the motiv*ation, and the willingness to work In a stinking village like thiSf for a h>'perth>Toid Irishman like Doolcy . . . that is all I asked. They arc learning the medicine they need to act as my corpsmen, and they arc learning it In a hurry. Bob throws a nasty IM Injection, and John de Vllry washes a leper's ulcer with com­passion, gentleness, and ability. 
Wc aren't bringing any great blow to stagger the onslaught of Communism. We aren't cursing Asia or her ills. Wc may not even be doing a very good job. But we are tr>"ing to show the people of this area, and deep into the underbelly of red China, just what four American guys are like, how wc live, and possess those qualities at­tributed to goodness. We have complete confidence that all who come in contact with us go away pleased with us, and therefore . . . with America." 
EDWARD J. NUGENT, JR., '47 

One of the outstanding civic leaders of the nationally known community of Loveland, Colo., is Edward J. Nugent, Jr., who graduated from Notre Dame in 1947. Two years ago he was named "Young Man of the Year" by the Junior Chamber of Commerce. 
Several years ago his prompt action was instrumental in getting a priest to give the last sacraments at the scene of the sabotaged air crash which killed 40 persons near Longmont, Colo. 
As a freshman at Notre Dame, Ed played first-year football under coach Elmer Layden. In 1943 he entered the service and served as a member of the 503rd Parachute Division, par­ticipating in seven invasions in the South Pacific. He returned to Notre Dame after the war and was graduated from the College of Commerce with a 
B.S. degree in 1947. Currently, he is the owner and operator of the Nugent Implement Company. The father of four children, Ed is one of the com­munity's most active workers in civic affairs and is vice chairman of the County Planning Commission. 
1948 Herman A. Zitt ' '^* * 635 Belmont Park, No. Dayton, Ohio 
From the Alumni ofHce; REV. FRANXIS A. PROKES, S.J., was ordained' to the priesthood on June 12 in Milwaukee, Wis. RAY SRSIC graduated in June with a medical degree from John Hopkins University. He will remain at the hospital as an intern in pediatrics. 
J. F. BARK, JR., is now employed by the Doiv Chemical Company, Midland, Mich. 
S. P. KRAPAC was recently honored as the lead­ing cash register salesman for 1956 in the northern division of the National Cash Register Company. 
Elective July 1st, JOHN H. GLAVIN has been named assistant to the president in charge of new product planning and market research, the Haloid Co., Rochester, N. Y. 
194 9 John Walker ' '^ ' 826 Wing Street Elgin, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT BILL SHERMAN. 

From the Altunni office; DR. PAUL FECKHAM is completing his intern­ship at the Naval Hospital in Chelsea, Mass., and plans to take a residency in Cincinnati. DR. STEPHEN A. GALLA is completing his fourth year of residency in anesthesiology at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, ^Iass. He will slay at the hospital next year on a U. S. Public Health Fellowship. REV. GEORGE HEL.MICH was recently or­dained to the priesthood in New York City. He is a Paulist Father. 
ROBERT H. .McDADE, JR., was recently pro­moted to divisional sales manager for the New York branch oflice of the Upjohn Company. 
REV. THO.MAS L. DINGES was ordained to the priesthood in Davenport, Iowa, on June 1st. 
19Sf l Ridianl F. Hahn ' '*'*' 6930 North OdeU Chicago 31, Illinois 
From Alumni oflice: CHARLES O. GIULIANI was recenUy graduated with a Doctor of Osteopathy degree from the Philadelphia College of Osteopathy. WALTER F. MURPHY received a Ph.D. degree in June from the University of Chicago. 
J. T. BONNOT is assistant superintendent of labor relations for the Timken Roller Bearing Company, Canton, Ohio. He recently participated in a labor relatioiu conference held in Chicago. 
HUGH E. REYNOLDS, JR.,-has been awarded the commendation ribbon with metal pendant in recognition of his outstanding legal work while ser\-ing in the U. S. Army. He returned to private law practice in Indianapolis on March 1st. 
M. L. THORNTON has been appointed division buyer, fuel and power, in the Chicago Purchasing Department of the U. S. Gypsum Co. 
' 10e i Robert J. Klingenberger "* ' 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 
WILLIAM A. McNALLY has received a master of chemical engineering degree from the University of Delaware at the June commencement exercises. 
Congratulations to BOB HOFF who was married in February and to HARRY HANIGAN who was married on June 1. Bob is living in Milwaukee and Harry and his bride will be living in Chicago. 
AL \S'ARD, 3502 Senate, Fort Vfa.ync, Ind., is w-ith the accounting firm of Sanford, Myers and DeWald and living in a new home at the address shown above. 
DICK KOSMICKI, with the Dictaphone Corpo­ration in New York, is kept busy with the public relations nature of his w*ork. Dick writes that CARL EIFERT was recently named Um'ted Press Bureau chief in Madison, \Vis. 
JIM HENNESSEY, 3106 Plover Road, LouisvUIe, Ky., has been elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky. To bring you up to date, Jim now has two daughters and is a partner with his father in an insurance firm. 
That's all this time. 1 cannot make up news for you fellows and have to hear from you in order to have something ' to report. However, I'll gladly edit everything you send in. 
REV. GEORGE REGINALD DOHERTY, O.P., was ordained to the priesthood on May 25, at St. Rose Priory, Dubuque, Iowa. He celebrated his first solemn Mass Sunday, May 26, at 12 noon in St. Edmund Church 183 S. Oak Park Ave., Oak Park, 111. 
Noirt Dame Alumnus, August-Stptember, 1957 
REV. JAMES P. -NUDDEN, C.S.C., was ordained for ihc Holy Cro;ss Fathers on Wednesday, June 5, by His Excellency-, Bishop Leo A. Purslcy, at Sacred Heart Cliurcli, Xotre Danic, Indiana. 
His filhcr, John T. Madden, is president of tlie Emigrant's Industrial Savings Bank, New York City, and has been active in the NVw York Arch­dioccsan affairs for many years. 
Father Madden cclebniicd his First Solemn Ma>s al St. .\ugusiine's Church, Larchmonl, N. Y. on Sunday, June 16, 1957, assisted by Monsignor Tliomas Decgan, pastor of St. .•Vugustinc's parish, as Arclipriest, Rev. Rudolph Carcliidi, C.S.C., of Father Baker High Scliool, Lackawanna, X. Y. as Deacon, Re\'. Joseph Blake, as Subdeacon, and Rev. John Drew, as Master of Ceremonies. The sermon was preaclied by Father \'Tncenl McCauley, 
C.S.C. uf the Holy Cross Missions in Bengal, East Pakistan. 
In October Father Madden will be assigned as a missionary to lite world's newest republic, Pakistan. Known as the Bengal Mission, tliis is but one of the foreign missions conducted by the Holy Cross Fathers. 
RICHARD A. HERRLE, who raises prize diincillas as a business, recently was awarded the Grand Show Champion prize at the 9lh Annual Long Island ChincilU Breeder's Club Show, Hemp­stead, L. I. Upon completion of competition Dick was offered $1,000 for his animal. He also won a third prize at the National SJiow. 
105 2 Harry L. Buch ' ' 986 National Road MTieeling, West Virginia 
REUNION- REGISTRANTS 
A. JOSEPH ADAMS, JAMES ADLER, JOE ADLER, GENE ALBERS, PHIL ANDERSON, HENRY BALLLNG, FRED BAXICKI, JOE BAR­RON, TOBY BARRY, JAMES BARTLETT, RICH­ARD BASGALL, DON BEBENEK, JOSEPH BORGES, JOSEPH BOWLING, JACK BRAD­SHAW, TERRY BRADY, JAMES BRENNAN, GEORGE BROWTJ, JOHN BURBRIDGE, JACK BUSH, JOHN CAREY, JOHN CHAV,\NNE, THOMAS CHISHOLM, CHARLES CHRISTEN, DICK CLANCY, DICK CODY, EDWARD COF­FEY, JOHN COMERFORD, TOM CO.MISKEY, JAMES COMMONS, BOB CORYN, TONY CRI­TELLI, RUSSELL DAGES, ED DARCY, PAUL DAVIS, JOHN DEGAN, RICHARD DcGRAFF, DENNIS DELANEY, WILLIAM DELxWEY, MIKE DENTINO, JOE DcVLIEGHER, PATRICK DOHERTY, ROBERT DOLMETSCH, LEO DON­DANVILLE, RICHARD DONOVAN, ANDREW DOOLEY, ROBERT DOUGHERTY, MATT DUG­GAN, RAWIOND DUNCAN, THOMAS DUNN, THOMAS DURAND, HUGH DURHAM, JAMES ETLING, MICHAEL FALCO, CHUCK FALKEN­BERG, DONALD FINN, EDWARD FOLEY, TOM FOLEY, LLO\T) FORRESTAL, HARRY FOSTER, JIM FREIMUTH, ARTHUR FREY, WILLIAM FROELICH, RICHARD GAECKLE, GUY' GA­LARDO, WILLIAM GALLO, LOUIS GARIPPO, PETE GARVEY, JAMES GARVIN, ED GEORGE, MICHAEL GERAGHn", EUGENE GERWE, WIL­LIAM GEYER, BOB GILDNER, ROBERT GOR­DON, JIM GRAHAM, FR,\NK GRUESEN, EUGENE HANNIGAN, DICK HARDIN, JIM HORRIGAN, LEO HUMMERICH, R. A. HUN­ZIKER, ROBERT JAY, GERARD JIRKA, FRANK JOHNSTON, JACK KANE, BOB ICVPISH, WIL­LIAM KELLY', ROBERT KENNEY, BILL KING, DON KINNEY, REV. TOM KIRBY, ROBERT KIRCHGESSNER, ROLAND KOHLBECK, DON KOTOSKE, VIC KROEGER, BILL LAFFAN, WALTER LANDRY, JOSEPH LAUFERSWEILER, ELMER lAYDEN, DOUGLAS LEGG, CHARLES LINSENMEYER, LAWRE.NCE LOPINA, JAMES McCLINTOCK, HANK McCOR.MACK, RICH­
ARD McKENNA, DONALD MAHER, THO.MAS MALONEY, JOHN .M,\RHOEFER, BILL MAR­TIN, NEAL MOORE, JOHN MORAN, DA\nD MORURTY, JOSEPH .MORIARTY, ROBERT MORTENSEN, DON MULLANEY, FRANK MYERS,'JOHN NEIS, PAT NEVILLE, JOSEPH NUCCI, JOHN O'BRIEN, WILLIAM O'HARA, TERRENCE O'LAUGHLIN, JIM O'NEIL, BUD ORR, DON PADGETT, ROBERT PECKELS, REV. ARTHUR PERRY, JUSTIN PERTICONE, HOWARD PHILLIPS. THOMAS PHILLIPS, VIN­CENT POST, RUDY POVSE, JACK POWERS, BILL RAUH, RALPH RICHARD, PETER RILEV, FRANCIS ROCHE, JACK RODGERS, ROBERT RUBERY, EDWIN RYAN, BILL RYAN, BILL SANTINI, CHARLES SCHAEFFER, BOB SCHAM­PIER, EDWARD SCHAUB, JAMES SCHERER, 

LACROSSE—^Father Joseph Barry was guest speaker on UND Night. Left to right: Club President Henry Funk; Father Barry; Augiut Grants, toastniaster; and Gerald Hcberlcin, chairman. 
CHARLES SEIBERT, RAY.MOND SLYMAN, DON S.MITH, JAMES STABILE, JOSEPH ST.ANI­CHAK, WALTER SWEENEY, GEORGE SWEET, BILL TOOHEY^, PHILLIP TOOLE, JIM TRANT, RAY TRITZ, RUDY UNGER, BILL VA.\ DcV,\N, JOHN WAGNER, JAMES WALSH, ROBERT WALSH, HANK WANNER, ROBERT WEIGAND, DO.N' WEIL/WCD, TO.M WELSH, BILL WHITE, GLEN.V YATUNI, JOHN ZIEL AND LEO ZMUDZINSKI. 
WILLIAM J. DOYLE lias been appointed a brokerage consultant witli tbe John St., New York City, brancli office of Connecticut General Life Insurance Company. He will be a technical con­sultant fur independent insurance brokers and their clients in all phases of individual and gt^np insurance planning. 
From the Alumni office: DANIEL CrVULFIELD is nou- li«ng at 2711 LeConte Avenue, Berkeley, Calif. He graduated from the University of California School of Law this past June and is going to the University of Cologne, Germany, on a Ford Foundation grant. REV. THO,NL\S .M. KIRBY was ordained to the priesthood in Pittsburgh. Pa., on May 25. 
REV. ARTHUR R. PERRY, '52 

THO.\L\S J. MURRAY has moved to 721 Har­vard, Rocliestcr 10, N. Y. He has taken a position in the rcsearcli department with Eastman- Kodak. Tom is married and the father of two sons, Ke\-in and Brian. 
JACK BR.\DSHAW has just been discharged from the Xavy and plans to return to his home­town of Indianapolis and enter law practice. 
DOX BEBEXEK Is now living at II08 Oak Hill Road, Pittsburgh, Pa., and is practicing law in that city. He and his wife, Mary Ann, have two daughters, Ann and Kay. 
HOWARD J. PHILLIPS, after receiving his 

M.A. from Yale and ser\ing in the Army, has taught American and European historj- at Xotre Dame since September, 1953. 
FRED HART.MANX, associated with the George 

S. Olive Accounting Firm in Indianapolis, was recently married to Miss Mar\' Whitmorc. 
TO.M STAPLETOX is working with the General Electric Corporation at ScJicnectady, X. Y., where he lives %vith his wife, the former Mar>- Ellen White of Muncie, Ind. 
JACK BUSH is Itxing in Davenport, Iowa, with his wife and three sons. Jack has been doing graduate \fork at Iowa University. 
DOUG LEGG expects to receive his master's degree in Modern European history from Xotre Danic in August and plans to start Ph.D. work at the University ot Oregon in September, 1957. 
BILL DELAXEY is now the Air Force ROTC instructor at Case Institute of Technology in Cleve­land, Ohio. Bill is married and he and his wife are the parents of two boys, Bill and Mike. 
RUDY UXGER is a reporter for the Chicago Tribune and resides at 4346 South Wells Street, Chicago, III. 
CHUCK FALKEXBERG is a practicing attorney. 

- He is married and the father of one daughter. 
HAXK BALLING, a general building contractor, is married, the father of one daughter, and resides with his family at 166 Walter Avenue, Tona­wanda, X. Y. 
After spending three years in the Army, C. E. SCHAEFFER is now working in trust investment at the Continental Illinois Bank in Chicago and also studying for an MBA at night at the University of Chicago. 
DICK McXAMARA, 1111 East 6Ist St., Indi­anapolts, Ind., is a partner in the McXamara Brothers Florist establishment. 
JIM ETLING, 205 Beacon Place, Munstcr, Ind., is married and the father of three children. He is u'orking ais a senior accountant with Lybrand, Ross Brothers and Montgomery', Chicago. Also working with the firm along witli Jim is BILL MARTIN. 

76 Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September, 1957 
Bill is married, the father of one girl and resides at 740 East 87ili Place, Chicago. 
REVEREND ARTHUR R. PERRY was ordained to the Sacred Priesthood by His Excellency, The Most Rev. Ralph L. Hayes, D.D., Bishop of Daven­port, on June I, in the Sacred Heart Cathedral, Davenport, Iowa. 
Father Pcrr>- lettered in football at Notre Dame and in June of 1952 he received a Baclielor of Arts degree Cum Laudc in Philosophy. After at­tending St. Ambrose College, Davenport, for one year, he pursued his theological studies at Moimt Saint Bernard Seminar^', Dubuque. 
Father Perry's First Solemn Mass was celebrated June 2, in St. Paul The Apostle Church, Davenport. 
1 952 Thomas W. Rccdy 
•'•^ ^ 337 Wagner Road NorthHcld, Illinois 

Received a vcr>- nice note from AL "HARPO** ^^ARKS' wife Anne telling oE the arrival of their daughter, Roscmar>-, on October 19. Al is finishing his senior year at the Stritch School of Medicine in Chicago. After graduation, he will intern in New York. Also at Stritch are: JACK MADDEN, JIM PATTERSON, DAN COLUNS, GENE SCHRANGE, and MIKE HUSSEY. 
JACK WHELfVN writes from Gainesville, Florida: "I ^-as discharged from the U. S. Air Force in December after two years in Morocco and nine months as an instructor in ad^'anccd radar opera­tion in Yuma, Arizona. My wife, the former Sue ^Vhel3n of St. Mary's, our new baby Julie Marie and I have settled here in Gaines\ille, Florida where I have entered the University of Florida as a Civil Engineering student. Should be here about three years." Jack also mentions that he recently talked to VIRG BARDASH on the phone and that P.\T DREW is the godfather of their baby girl. 
DON BERRY is announcing the St. Patrick's day birthday of his first child, Dona Mary, born in Edu-ards, California. Don says: "Wife and baby did real well!" 
DAN MARSALEK is currently stationed with the Na^Y at Great Lakes, III. He recently graduated from Western Rcser\'C School of Dcntistr\- and is expecting to be boarding the U.S.S. Essex somc­limc in July. Dan asks if "we ever hear any word from SVL SCHULTZ or the other boys from 
NEW HAA'^N—G. Albert Lawton (left) was 
Louisville?" AL DcCR.ANE is now at Georgetown Law School and he and Joni are the proud par­ents of Lisa Ann, born January' 23. That makes two for the DeCrane's and A\ says '^Little Dave is having some trouble at his 17 months trying to figure out why we went and got another child when he wasn't out looking for new parents." Also at Georgetown, writes Al, are the follomng: ROGER BL.\TZ, JIM WELSH, BOB HULL, BOB HOODECHECK and ED FARRELL. Continuing, "JACK BRADSHAW is with the Navy at Patuxcnt and gets into town quite often. JIM INGR^XM lives around the corner and they had their second little boy rcccntlv. Also see BILL BIRD, his wife. Barb, and their two girls, the JERRY TRAVISES and their girl, and DAN and Joanne REARDON and their two girls quite often." 
ED DE BOER reports that he is still working for G. E, in Scliencctadv, New York in the Electric Utility Engineering Department. He ex­pects to remain there about four years before getting a district office engineering assignment. FRED DAHL also works for G. E. but at the Electronic Park Plant in Syracnsc. Fred had IAVO children at last counting. 
LEO DIGIOL-V is working for American Macliinc and Foundr>' in New York. Ed winds up his letter: "I would like to hear from PHIL GO-TUxVCO. Would you happen to know his where­abouts or address? Also there arc quite a few in our class who seem to be missing and no one has heard about since graduation. I wish we could get them to rally behind the flag and help make the class column the best." 
To which we say "AMEN," Ed. All of us would like to hear from you. Your job, family progress, activities, and who you've seen from the Class of 1953 . . . these arc the things we want to know. Jwst jot me a short note, long letter or even a post card and keep us posted. 
From the .Alumni office: 

ROBERT E. VISINTINE received a doctor of medicine degree from Ohio State University on June 7. 
THEODORE C. GARL^VND was recently grad­uated from the Philadelphia College of Osteopathy with a doctor of osteopathy degree. 
WILLIA.M EDWIN LrVNGLOIS, received the Doctor of Philosophy degree in Applied Mathe­matics at Brown University's annual Graduate School Convocation. 
 named *Man of the Year' by New Haven 
alumni at the annual Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. Left to right: Lawton; Jim Arm­strong, guest speaker from the camptis; and Edward A. Byrne, club president. 
GEORGE A. PFLAUM HI, *78 

1 954 George A. Pflaum, Jr. '^ ^ 4262 Catalpa Drive No. 2 Dayton 5, Ohio 
.Appearing above is the first reply • to this magazine's request" for any photos that the alumni would care to display. By coincidence, details on the lad, born on April 27, include the name GEORGE A. PFLAUM HI. Now that the ice has been broken by an extremely proud father, let's have some more of them! 
By your own doing, gentlemen, our column once again will be one of the pygmies in this magazine. MR. SUM.MERFIELD can't accuse mc of some of the difficulties and overwork that his personnel have endured in the past year principally because they ver>- seldom have to extend their sen.'ices to my mail box. With summer pending and leisure time in abundance, why not schedule a few minutes of that time to pass on your activities to this column. 
The foreign postal employees recently brought me the following good nc^v•s. "Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK PICHl SUN request the honor of your presence at the marriage of their daughter Patricia Frances to .Mr. L^VWRENCE JOHN GOLUACO Saturday morning, the ninth of February, Nineteen hundred and fifty-seven, at nine o'clock. Holy Family Catholic Church, Hsin Sbeng Nan Road, Taipei." 
The following is an excellent effort by JACK NASHERT to bring us all up to date. "Mildred and I moved into our new home, which I built, last April, and now have a permanent address, which is 2725 N.W. 68th Street, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. If you have room this time, you might ask the fellows to drop me a note at that address when they have a chance. 
*'I am now the proud father of a son, age 2, and a daughter, age 1, so I guess you might say the grass hasn't been growing under my feet. 
"I just heard from BOB HOWARD, who is liWng at the Shelton Hotel, 49th and Lexington Ave., New York. He is employed by an archi­tectural firm in N. Y. and seems to like his work fine. 
"During the winter, I received tvedding invita­tions from JACK BRINCE, who married a girl from Philadelphia, and FRANK (SWISH) RAITH, who married Miss Pat Bundschuh of New Ro­chelle, N. Y., and South Bend. Both invitations reached me long after the ceremony was over, since I have moved several times tn the past three years." 
A recent note from LARRY MULLIN displa^-s little regret that he was separated from the Army at Ft. Sheridan last August. Since that time he has been working with Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Co. He can be located at 5221 Third Ave, Minneapolis 19, Minn. May 18th of this year was the lucky day on which he married the former Miss Mar\' Freeman. A recent relay of information from the Marine base at T^venty­nine Palms, Calif., reveals that James Francis Bocsen, Jr., has joined the fold. A former running mate of James, Sr., JOE JOYCE, reports he is taking the big step at Notre Dame this summer, July 6th to be exact. Joe is u-ith the Holliday, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August-September^ 1957 77 
Miller, Myers and Steu-art Hw firm in Dcs Moines. 
Iowa. He also passed on that JIM MacCOMB 
will marr>- Miss Kay Dale, S-M-C. *56, in Franklin, 
Pa., on June 30lh. Jim is associated with Paul 
Manning ChcxToIct, Dcs Moines, Iowa. 
BILL GUILFOILE squeezed a note in just be­fore the deadline indicating quite a glimmer of hope now that separation date from the USN shows on the calendar for next Dec I4th. 
I have received the following from AVALTER 
DUSCHKA from 826 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago 5, 
III. "On March 26th it will be a year since the death of LARRY ASH. This is to let the fellows know that a Mass will be ofTcred for Larry in the name of our cla&s In Dillon Hall chapel that morning arranged through Fr. Joe Barry. This Won't make the "Alumnus'* in time, but I'm sure all of Us who knew Larry w-ill ofTcr up our prayers for him in a special way when lhc\' hear of this. Larry's parents will also receive a ^Ia5s crard at that time. 
"This is to suggest, too, George, if someone has not already done so, that we enroll our departed classmates in the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Purgatorial Society as some of the other classes are doing. Our class accomplished much both athletically and scholastically at scliool and also in the short time since graduation. It would be fitting if we remembered our deceased members in a special way. 
"Heard from JIM NLAYER at Christmas. He's fl>-ing blimps fur the Xa\-y at Lakehurst NAS, Xew Jersey, right around home. I bumped into PHIL LOPRESTl while on a visit back to N. D. Phil is there working on his M.S. in E.E. 
*'As for mj"self, I'm working in Chicago for Western Electric, still single, solvent and happy. It's good to hear about the men who arc trickling back into ciWlian life and also of those who still have 'time to scr^'e.' Thanks for the fine job of reporting." 

It is w-ith some grief that I report to all of you the death of Lt. (j.g.) JAMES X. BUCK, who was killed in a plane crash on March I9th of this year. His wife, family, and parents arc as­sured that all of us arc remembering him In our prayers, Jim's parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harold F. Buck, live at 10858 S. Washtenau, Chicago 43, HI. 
I am open to any suggestions on how we may use this column to organize and arrange for class memorial Masses. Other classes are doing it by maintaining a general fund In the name of the class treasurer or secretary. This to me seems the most logical method and I would gladly main­tain it and any other obligations along these lines that you would desire me to do for you. I am open to any suggestions on how we may organ­ize It promptly and cfUciently. 

Must leave for now. Regret this brief message, hope that through your efforts next issue will bulge with the Class of '54. 
From the Alumni office: EUGEXE W. HEXRY has been awarded a pre­doctoral fellowship by the Xational Academy of Sclences-X'atlonal Research Council. He is presently with the United States Air Force at Dayton, Ohio. He will study, beginning in September, 1957, at Stanford University's Electrical Engineering De­partment. LT. JOHX \\'. HOUCK (Law degree from N. D. in '55} will be home from Korea in August and begins a teaching assignmt;nt on the College of Commerce faculty in September. He, his wife Mary, and son Christopher plan to live in Veiville. The Taro Leaf, 24th Division newspaper, recently carried a feature about the Army's only known 
floating bull session—of whicli John is and *vas one of the organizers. 
195B Tom F. O'Malley 
I7W ^ 6738 Kemvood Kansas City, Missouri Gentlemen, by the time thai you 
 moderator 
 read this 

column, I will have turned in my resignation to Uncle Sam and bid the X''3V\' a fond farewell. X'otc the impressive position that my title now implies. Civilian! To all those less fortunate than m>*scU, I dedicate this column. We all know what a little toudi of home can mean to the troops on the far-flung battlefields of the world. From just sudi a place come greetings from JOE XLADIGAX who is stationed at Fort Sam Houston, Texas. Joe is enrolled in Army medic school at the Fort. He mentions that he is trying to get into Public Relations but, as yet, he hasn't heard any­thing dcHnlte. It seems that Joe had a chance meeting with JIM IRWIX in San Antonio. Jim Is Stationed with the .-Mr Force in Houston. In ending, Joe sends a request for the current address of TI.M XORTOX who I understand has been 
Gerald *Kid* Ashe (center) receives a Hhank you' plaque from his classmates of 1922 for his fine work as class secretary. Others in photo arc J. Frank Miles (left), Local Class Reunion Chairman, and Aaron Huguenard, class president. 
sent to Korea. Anyone having this information 
please forward it to Joe at the following address: 
Pvt. J. V. Madigan, US52429704. Co. A, 1st Bn., 
MTC, BAMC, Fort Sam Houston, Texas. 
Congratulations to ROY BELKXAP and his wife Maureen on the birth of a daughter Catherine Anne. Taking after her dad in size, Catherine weighed in at 8 lbs. I oz. Roy figures that she should be ready for an electric train in two or three weeks. Dad Belknap has been Ship Store Officer on a tender welded to the dock In S'euport but thinks that he \rill be sent to a destroyer sometime in June. 
I was happy to receive another letter from JOE FOXTAX A and his wife Rosemary*. Joe Is stationed with the Marines in Florida and has been branching out into the wonderful world of sports. I \t'as asked not to mention this but I'm going to do it an\*way. Joe was the coach for the Fleet Marine Force touch football team at the Marine Air Station. His team was undefeated and won the Atlantic Coast football cliampionship. After winning the Marine league, they played seven Xa\-y teams and the inevitable happened. The Xa\v lost! Congratulations, Joe, but under the circumstances, I must demand a replay of those last seven games. It's the least you could do Even more Important, the stork Is due to deliver a tiny Foniana sometime in September. Again, congratulations. JIM VACHRIS, his wife Barbara, and their two children were stationed with the /\ir Force for nine weeks in West Palm Beach, Florida. Tlie>''rc now stationed In Sallna, Kansas. The Fontanas end with a request for ED KELLY, former X^av>- Excltangc Officer of the biggest Uttlc retail store in the Xa^y, to write and bring them up to date. It seems that Ed hasn't written since his marriage last January. 
Ever>' year I have a birthday, which, for the last few years, has been happening yearly, I have to mar\el at MIKE COSTELLO and his capacity for remembering dates. I received another card from him with a short note. I'm sure that you'll be surprised, Mike, when you learn that I only had two years to scn-e. Anj'^^'ay, thanks vcr>' mucli for the card and let me hear from you at length when you get time. 
HAL WILLEXBORG sends a card from sunny Japan where his ship has docked for a short stay. I don't think that there are going to be too many places left that Hal hasn't seen. We won't count this, but he naturally hasn't had a chance to visit my duty station in Olaihe, Kansas. Cheer up, Hal, some day you might complete a jingle and win an all-expense paid trip. It's possible. 
When last seen, DAX' MOORE was undergoing Marine boot training in San Diego, Calif. Prior to this, Dan was working for the Defense Projects Dlrision of Western Electric Co. in Fairbanks and Ancliorage, Alaska. He operated a short wave radio station for a time and then worked in the con­struction and accounting departments. Quite a change In climate, Dan. 
The well-travelled DICK RE.\MER sent a card from Vienna where he Is In the process of forming a Xotre Dame alumni club. He mentions that the membership has now grown to eight and that they plan to hold a mass meeting in a phone booth as soon as all of the arrangements arc taken care of. Dick extends an invitation to any classmates. St. Mar>''s graduates, or subway alumni who visit the area to drop in and have one on him. The address is as follows: Pension Cosmopolite, Alser­strassc 23, Vienna 8. Phone A25060. If anything comes of this, gentlemen, let me know and I'll report the facts in the next class column. 
GEORGE VOSMIK sent a native runner with 3 note from Okinawa where he is stationed with the 4th Marine Battalion. According to his report, the national sport on the Island is "rain watching." I've always said that those people In the Far East have all the fun. George plans to be trans­ferred to Fort Sill, Oklahoma, In the near future and will spend the rest of his obligated ser\ice as an artiUery' instructor. He included some news notes in his letter. JACK MURRAY is with the 9th Ntarines and is planning to return to the States ver>- shortly. JOE CAPKA is with an engineer battalion and also calls Okinawa his home. Must be quite a place! MIKE DePADRO and his wife Anne have just added a new name on tht mailbox. A daughter, Suiannc, was born to them In February. Congratulations to them both. Mike is stationed at the Marine base in El Toro, California. Latest word indicates that FRAXK WHITE is spending his time at Camp LeJeune, Korth Carolina with an infantry outfit. Drop a line, Frank, say you're feeling fine. JOE HIGGIXS is aboard an aircraft carrier and has been sailing in and out of Japan. LEO CALLAHAX Is leaving Japan for the States and plans to be 
78. Notre Dame Alumnus^ August-September^ 1957 
Joseph Harrington, *39 (standing), welcomes delegates to the 1957 District Rotary Con­vention of Central American countries, held recently in Panama. Joe was chosen president of the conference. 
discliargcd soon after arm-al. BILL BYRNE is in advanced training with the Marine Air Corps. 
JACK GOETSCH writes that he is enjoying his stay with the Air Force at South Rmship Air Base just outside of London, England. Jack is Administrative Officer for the Office ot Special Investigations. I don't think that I had word of this before, but Jack married the former Joyce Wilkc and they're both enjoying the government-financed tour of England. 
HUGH SCHAEFER writes from Tulsa, Okla­homa where he is working for Sinclair Oil and Gas Company. He spent six months in the Army at Fort Sam Houston, Texas, and then was released into the cold and crueL From the sounds of things, Hugh was laundry- and morale officer for the entire fort. During his free time he acted as sccretar>'-treasurer for the post golf club. Ensign Pulvcr of "Mr. Roberts" fame had nothing on you, Hugh. JOE McGR/\W is still employed with the Kcwanee Oil Company in Tulsa and is at­tending law school at night. Incidentally, Hugh inquired about the whereabouts of BERT METZGER, DICK NORTON, and DON LUECKE. How about it? 
I received a letter from BOB MOORE who is working with the DuPont Company in Orange, Texas. In past columns I had apparently reported that Bob was working at two or three different companies, all of them incorrect. He dropped me a Imc to set the record straight and also to bring me up to date on some of the '55 people that I hadn't heard from previously. Bob's most im­portant news item is that he and his wife arc expecting their first baby lu June. He digs back into the archives and mentions that DON MER­DLVN is working for Shell Chemical in Houston. MARTY REINHART is with the Monsanto Chem­ical Company in Texas City, and REGGIE GRIMM, and BILL BECK are working tor either oil or chemical companies on the Gulf. BOB VO\'T is working in Muskegon, Micliigan, for the ^Vmerican Spring Company. DAVE WEID.MANN is working for RCA but no other details are known. 
A card from JACK REED indicates that he is now in the Array Signal Corps. He has recently finished the Southeastern Signal School at Fort Gordon, Georgia, and is now stationed at Fort Polk, La. Jack had been attending the Tuck Business School before the Army took aim. 
A welcome letter arrived from JOHN CON­NAUGHTON whom I hadn't heard from in some time. John has been on the island of Luzon for eight weeks in conjunction with a 3rd Marine Division maneuver. He is planning to leave tlie island for a week of liberty In Hong Kong and then on to Okinawa and Japan. All of the news to follow is from John's letter. SAM BUDNIK has recently completed a tour of duty with the Marines in Borneo, India, and Pakistan. Sam Is now holding forth on Okinawa. JOHN KURTZ was recently married and the Navy has him and his wife living In California at Mare Island. ED KELLV entered Officer's Candidate School In January after spending an enjoyable time in Fort Lauderdale. JOHN QUEEN/\N is in his third year of Medical School at Cornell. He plans to marry Miss Carrie Nehcr of Greenwich, Conn, on June 13tli and then w-ill take substitute internship in Neurology at Bellcxue Hospital in New York during the summer. BOB RUSSELL, when last heard from, was with the Air Force on the out­skirts of Seoul, Korea. JOHN HACKETT is In his third year of Medical Scliool at the Untvcrsitv of Illinois in Chicago. JOHN RY^\N and TOM GORDEN are in their second year at the Striich School of Medicine, Loyola University, Chicago. PAT McNAMAR/\ Is in the Army and stationed in the Los Angeles area. 

BOB HUNECK sends greetings from Neckarsulm, Germany where the Army has him vacationing. Bob took his basic training at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri, and was then sent overseas. He and TOM BxXRNICLE, who is stationed in Heidelberg as a clerk in an Army hospital, took advantage of their leave period and visited Switzerland, Italy, and Austria. And, of course, a trip wouldn't be a trip without a visit to the solemn city of Paris. Bob enclosed a picture taken of him and Tom in Pisa, Italy, with none other than the leaning tower in the background. I understand that the two of them completed the job before they were through seeing the town. A mention Is made of MAX ROESLER wlm has been drafted into the Na\y and is aboard an oiler floating between San Francisco and the Far East. LOU CENTLIVRE is also enjoying the sights abroad, and is stationed with the Army In Nance. France. Okay, Bob, Joer's it is on the first football weekend next fall. 
Well, gentlemen of '35, it looks like I'm down to the bottom of the mail bag again. Tlie letters started coming in long and strong for a short time and then tlicy began to tumble off. The only thing that makes this column interesting is your interest In the column. In this case, "no news is bad news." I'm sure that you all get tired of my preaching so I'll get down off the isolation booth. 
Again I leave you with the thought for this Issue. "Do something every day to make others happy, even if It's just to let them alone." 
CHARLES E. O'BRIEN has been named a systems analyst tn the systems and procedures de­partment of the Milwaukee plant, Allls-Chalmers Mfg. Co. 
DAVID R. COHEN was recently named sales director for Fides Publishers, Chicago, Illinois. He will handle sales promotion and advertising for the Catholic book publishing firm. 
EDWARD P. ZOTTER has been appointed sales 5upcr\-Isor, Armour Handy Home Products, Armour and Company, Alliance, Ohio. He will work In the Detroit and surrounding area. 
RONALD A. MAKOWSKI has received a master of automotive engineering degree from the Chrysler Institute of Engineering in Detroit. Commence­ment exercises %vcre held on June 11 at the Chrysler Corporation Engineering division's audi­torium for students who this month completed two-year post-graduate courses In automotive engineering. 
From the Alumni office: 
BILL OTOOLE and FRANK OLAZABAL are studying medicine at the Johns Hopkins Medical School, 
TED LiVUGHLIN has been awarded a fellow­ship given by the Ledcrle Laboratories and will do research at Georgetown University. 
R.-\NDALL C. CARLL is a first lieutenant in the Marines and Is taking a 16-month course at the Chinese Language School, Washington, D. C. 
1956 
(Editor's Note: AL VITT is now In the armed forces and unable to continue as class secretary. Anyone Interested in being correspondent for the ,-VLUMNUS magazine should write to John Cackley, Managing Editor, Notre Dame ALUMNUS, Notre Dame, Indiana.} 
WILLLUt J. WELDON has received an Ellhu Root-Samuel J. Tildcn Scholarship for three years of study at the New York University School of Law. Recipients of the scholarships, which are valued at $7,200 each, were announced May 12 by Dean Russell D. Nlles. 
From JOHN MANION: 
GENE GORDON was last seen in his hometown of Sterling, III., telling of his fine new job with the Texas Company In Lockport, III. 
NICK RAICH informed us that he and his wife are the proud parents of a husky little Nick, Jr., boriv during tlic month of May. Nick just pur­chased a house in his hometown of Mllvvaukee; he reportedly is doing quite well with a real estate firm there. 
Also in Milwaukee, BOB ERD.MANN recently began work with an ardiitecture firm. 
CARL EIGLESBACH had his public accounting efforts interrupted as of May 26 when he reported to Fort Leonard Wirod for sLt months of Rcser\'e x\ctive Duty. xUthough he wasn't too happy witli the thought of leaving the friendly south side of Chicago, the sLx montlis Is better than two years. 
BILL HINTON and wife, Ruth, both looked in fine shape as they were leaWng St. Joseph's Church in Mishawaka on June 2; seems tliey were visiting their parents in the Michiana area. Bill is in public accounting in Chicago. 
JEROME V. SWEENEY II reported that his life as a salesman for SyK-ania Electric is great. He gets home quite often and has really been seeing the country. 
1 0R 7 Charles P. Williamson 
• '^ ' P.O. Bo.x 605 Mt. Vernon, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANT ^VILLIAM A. GATE 

(Ed. Note: Pat Williamson has accepted tlie Class Secretary assignment, which means that he will be the correspondent for the ALUMNUS magazine. However, this Isn't a one-man job. Pat needs your assistance and the more news you submit to him about yourself, as well as those classmates with whom you've had contact, the more interest will be created for the column. Paul Kraus has been designated as the Law Secretary, by his classmates, with the request that their notes be run as a separate section of the 1957 column. Paul's address is 1730 W. Bancroft SL . Toledo 6, Ohio. Pat will concentrate on the other four colleges and graduate scliool. Obviously both will apprcdate your co­operation—and so will we. John Cackley). 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
July 12, 1957 Cleveland, O. 
Fellow Alumni: 

The majority of Notre Dame men are uninterested in what happens to Notre Dame. At first thought, that statement may seem to be a gross e.xaggeration to readers of this page. But on the other hand if it's true, alumni are imdoubtedly wondering why, as President of the Association, I don't do something about it. 
This, I promise you will be done. In our 89 years of Alumni activity, the predominant quality of Notre Dame has ostensibly been the one great spirit that gives energy to all our programs. But as that great American, Al Smith, used to say "Let's look at the record." 
I don't necessarily wish to "talk money" but tlie best tangible yaixlstick of Alumni interest is the annual report of the Alumni Fund. In 1956, our Alumni participation was 48.4%. In other words, tliat means that Ihe majority of our Alumni are not interested enough to support the University. And at this time, the record shows 400 fewer Alumni have contributed than during the same comparable period of 1956. 
Our enrollment has reached the point where, because of our higher standards for admission, it requires constant alumni interest if we are to bring in qualified applicants. Our rising costs to students tends to reduce our field of prospects, which means more active alumni missionary field work. Other colleges are pi-esenting stiffer and increasing competition which we must meet affirmatively if we are to maintain our distinctive univei-sal enrollment pattern at the proper standard. Our alumni must see that tliesc standards are coiTcctly inteipreted and are not permitted to become rumors and exaggerations that will only complicate our relations with prospective students. 
I don't want to believe that our atliletic misfortune last fall is the cause for lack of alumni interest. But I do say that we need successful athletic programs, as much as any other, in order to kindle and keep alive enthusiastic interest and help of all alumni. It may be we have lulled ourselves into believing that because Notre Dame is bigger, with many new faces and ideas that we can decentralize our ideas. Perhaps we feel tliat specialization is adequate. 
AVe have an individual responsibility created by our own ties with Notre Dame. Some are spiritual, some intellectual, some from friendship and some from practical values that come to us from the growth and respect of Notre Dame in our special fields. Primarily it is an inner conviction! 
It has been said that the heritage of the past is the seed that brings fortli the harvest of the future. Ours is a rich heritage, a heritage which the world calls tliat indefinable Notre Dame spirit. Our job is to stir up tlie will of the Notre Dame man, to get him to translate what he feels and knows into action. Notre Dame needs this action on all its fronts in order to hold its position with the world's leading universities. The progress in every direction needs it, so that tlie work of those who have gone before us and those who are working now will have deserved success. Eternal vigilance is the price of victory. 
I firmly believe tiiat our histor)' and heritage prove tliat reverses make us stronger. I am sure that as the result of our football misfortune last year the world will recognize what we mean by Notre Dame spirit. 
This is the year when real Notre Dame men will stand up and be willing to be counted. 
Sincerely, 
J. PATRICK CANNY, President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PREM 





