The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

_for Everyone 
Mater but it's right -in. the season when high school seniors are siz­ing up the campuses of their choice. Brother Raphael Wilson CSC, director of the Univcr~ sity's Admissions Office, pulls no punches in telling it "like it is." 
For many, however, the story of the hour and, perhaps this issue, is the dedication of the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter scheduled December 1-8. In­side the $8.6 _million plant painters arc covering the last few inches of bare plywood; work­men arc finishing the main floor of the Arena; and electricians are checking out scoreboards. Out and around the duo-domed cen­ter plushy Kentucky blue-grass and maturing maples literally are sprouting up overnight. 
'TALK about variety · and the A&C Center is the ultimate. Not only , ~re its physical facilities varied and numerous but its open-­ing week's activities, known as 
. "Performance Maximus," pro­vide again that little something for. everyone. Though our pre­view on pages 8 and 9 is limited we hope to bring you complete coverage of the facility in full usc during the spectacular eight-day affair. Look for a special issue of 
INSIGHT early in the new year for the full account. 
~c
~ Editor 
P.S. _Last issue's cover provoked many comments, mostly questions ­of "What's that?" For those who saw our "not so jolly green giant" 
· as an aerial view of the stadium ' or as the Campus map or as a battlefield mancuv~r, we suhmit two items for your'comparison in the far -left column of this spread. · 
EDITORIALS 
i-
A _View of 'Dnmattae Vitae'f GEORGE N. SHUSTER 
I wouLD LIKE to talk about Pope Paul's birth control encyclical as a "moralistic" statement. When I call it moralistic, I mean to emphasize that it is an exhorta­tion based on conclusions drawn from the Church's long effort to formulate a code of ethics for its members-and not based on Scriptural teaching. 
To me the Church's code is a good and noble one and one to be treated with respect. Stiii, it is the work of men (who have been fallible in all ages) , and who have certainly made mistakes upon occasion. . 
Lord Acton has wisely pointed out the Inquisition as one such error. He explained it with Goethe's maxim: "All power cor­rupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely." That such a horrible and bloody business as the In­quisition could have been carried on for such a long period of time, even with Papal sanction, is a sad fact which we can only teryn in­comprehensible, however '·sound the premises may have seemed in former times. 
Father John Courtney Murray, in his studies on the relation of Church and State, had to con­front one basic underpinning of the theory which "justified" the Inquisition: the doctrine that whenever Catholics ruled the State they could suppress the rights of dissident religious groups. In this confrontation; Father Murray was bent on striking from the books a doctrine of which the Papacy had approved. The result was that not too many years ago the Vatican's Congregation of the Holy Office considered Murray's vie\vs so pernicious that it forbade the publication of a book in which he developed them. 
But do not be led by this to think that Catholic moralists and the code they took such pains to write were not in a great number of instances w~se and soundly motivated. Surely, it can be said that they strove-even if they. did not always succeed-to protect 
2 

the West from moral debasement and to try to make sure that a life which had the quest for holiness at its core could be assisted toward its goal. 
Therefore, if we ask the ques­tion: Must we attribute to Pope Paul's encyclical no greater finality than John Courtney Mur­ray did to the Papal Bull that trampled the rights of conscience in a Catholic State (Unam Sanctam) , we must keep two things in mind : ~­
First, we have a clear right to ask the question and to determine what the answer should be, and Secondly, we ought also to bear in mind how deeply indebted we are to the Church. 
At Notre Dame we began the study of population problems and of birth control seven years ago. 
· Our work was done by moral theologians and scientists of the highest reputation. The studies \vere done with complete openness of mind. 
IN our studies, we concluded that three new factors had been introduced into the discussion. 
The first was that called Casti Connubii (the last encyclical. that dealt with birth control) called a halt to enlightened pastoral care which had permitted birth control in cases where a .woman could not have another child without· serious jeopardy to her well-being, or when the family was desperately poor•. 
The second fact was that the conquest of disease by medicine and consequent. vaccination of the world's masses had led to a very great : expansion of the population. This was especially true in the needy parts of the world. Included in this factor was the danger of catastrophe limiting the number of births. 
And then there was the third factor: the stark question of. virtual or actual starvation. The supply-of food. can be increased and the minimal· standard of living can be raised. But it wiii take a long time to accomplish these things; and observers arc surely correct when they say that continued large increases in the birth -rate will make it a very . long time indeed. . 
In short, 'the framework of the population ptoblem emerged .in our studies as enormous and it was clearly -in a real sense ­at the heart of a terrifying human need. What can the practice of Rhythm do to meet that need? Admittedly the sanction of this method of birth control by Pope Pius XII was a notable change in Catholic teaching. But it does not follow that at the present · time Rhythm is practicable in any sense. It docs not "work" well enough even under clinical supervision to be of genuine so­cial value. As my colleague at Notre Dame, Dr. Donald Bar­rett, a member of the papal birth control commission, has said: the "logistical" ·aspects of Rhythm arc more than enough to consign it to Utopia. · 
Pope Paul recognizes these things implicitly in the encycli­cal: -Scientists are urged to discover ways of perfecting the Rhythm method. -A plea is made to bring about an end to poverty, disease, and ignorance in the spirit of Pope Paul's ear­lier encyclical Populorum Pro­gressio. · 
We may, therefore, surely con­clude that the Pope joins us in recognizing a time lag during which humanity must face the fact that answers to the problem of population which arc based on past history and experience are inadequate. 
I do not think that Pope Paul's moral assumptions are necessarily wrong. we should not be absolutist in our thinking 
. either way. No one knows what the moral condition, or the psy­chical happiness of an all-out con­traceptive society would be. Per/zaps Rlzytlzm can . be made 

lmplieations of a Sojon••n 
JAMES D. COONEY 
effective some time. We should concede this and add that the authority of the Holy See has been too valuable tO make repudiation of it desirable. 
What I argue for with all the 
strength I possess is that the 
present grave situation in which 
human society finds itself must 
be taken into account realistical­
ly. Can we not try to plead 
with His Holiness that he grant 
an indult to be in effect until 
the day when the time-lag has 
been corrected? Can we not urge 
that "natural law" is not appli­
cable in the state of nature which 
we of the present unfortunately 
call our environment? When pov­
erty and ignorance have been 
alleviated another day will· have 
dawned. Can we not ask when 
the Rhythm method has been per­
fected, the discussion can proceed 
in an entirely different mode? 
It seems to me that the Cath­

olic laity, assured of itS new 
position in the Church, has the 
right and indeed the · duty to 
make as strong a plea for such 
an indult as it possibly can. :. 
Surely it is not too novel an idea 
that the pastor listen to his be­
leaguered flock. In short, we 
would not ask the Pope to alter 
his mo~~l position, nor would we 
question the privilege of the 
magisterium. We would merely 
ask that he grant what is entire­
ly within the scope of his author­
ity. to grant and suspend for a 
time d em an d s on the laity 
throughout the world .whiCh they 
cannot possibly meet. There is 
ample precedent for such action. 
THEN in another time, under 
other conditions, the Papacy 
could determine whether the in­
dult should be lifted. Perhaps it­
may seem necessary to do so some time. We do not know. But a man who has been as loyal to the Church over a long number of years as I have been can only ·predict, sorrowingly, that if a Papal indult is not granted, mil­lions of Catholics will grant it to 
themselves. 
Dr. Shuster is assistant to the president of Notre Dame. His article is reprinted with permission of the Universal Press Syndicate. 
THE phrase. "Yankee Go Home" curiously to be linked with the hits home in retrospect. We made disintegration of existing struc­our third trip to Lima, Peru this tures. Frankly, we'd like to think fall to assist (with Ford Founda­that we wield such powerful in­tion support) in the redevelop­fluence, but in all objectivity must ment of the Catholic University of admit we passed in and out of Peru. Stops on the way included customs and immigration sans sojourns in Mexico City and raised eyebrows. This time the Panama. The impact of N.D.'s Yankees did go home, and no one contingency, some weeks later, really asked us. could be construed as traumatic. And now, in the Indian Sum­The Peruvian government was mer comfort of South Bend living overthrown a fortnight after our rooms, armed with Kodak Car­departure . • . Mexico City (and ousel, and glorious, living slides 
, the Olympics Committee) has we can cluck our concern for the held its breath in the face of unfortunate occurrences befalling violent and often tragic extra­our brothers South of the Border curricular activity, and finally ... the violence, the dissent and comes news that Panamanian rebellion characterizing their way 
·President Arias, barely eleven days of life. And it sounds like a song in office, is seeking Canal Zone we've somehow heard before ... asylum. One begins to wonder or a conversation overheard in about the efficacy of that asylum, someorie else's back yard. And we as opposed to the larger one in return to the ordinary business of which we all seem to be inmated. eeking out our tranquil lives, for The point of this rambling really the Yankee is comfortably home. is that we hope the word doesn't get out that our departure from James Cooney is executive secretory of the 
' the countries in question seemed Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Pet•spe~tive Tlten attd Now 
RICHARD W. CONKLIN 
IN A day when the personal essay movie, too, was essentially a rite was fashionable, this column of identification.­might have_ been entitled "Re­Perhaps each generation' picks flections on Seeing 'The Graduate' its own mirror-movie (James and 'Knute Rockne-All Amer­Dean and "East of Eden" was ican' on Successive Evenings and such a vehicle for the senior-high Feeling Too Old for Both." · and college crowd of my day) and 
But the personal essay is no the past use of the Rockne film longer in vogue, and the cultural in freshman orientation at Notre ·adhesion which holds us together Dame is testimony to the socializa­is audio-visual, not literary. Thus, . tion uses of the. motion picture. it was not surprising to see "The Part of my trouble in.reviewing Graduate" return to South Bend -the two movies is a cufious scene theaters in time to perform a overlap which exists in my mem­crucial sociological function, that ory. I see Rockne pacing the of inculcating contemporary up,-practice field sidelines and stumbl­
.. perclassmen values in Notre Dame. ing over a bored Gipp, gazing dis­freshmen. And it was equally pre­tractedly into a bubbly aquarium; dictable that one of Chicago's Benjamin racing painfully up a television stations would screen -Santa Barbara sidewalk, catching Pat O'Brien and Ronald Reagan a lofty forward pass just as in a late-show presentation of the he reaches the echurch; Rockne immortal story of Notre Dame . before his' fireplace after the football, just a few days before Northwestern victory, putting his the season opener. The audience hand on a -· coughing Gipp's was, of course, different, but this shoulder and whispering some­
thing abstruse about "plastics"; 
the Four Horsemen, dressed in 
skin-diving gear and resting com­
fortably on the bottom of a womb­
like suburban swimming pool. 

The Rockne film docs not hide 
its message: Good Sportsmanship 
and Right Thinking. These arc 
upward-mobility values. They 
brought bright; hard-working sons 
of immigrants such as Rockne 
from postal clerk to burial with a 
President's message of sorrow. 

They were values strongly 
sensed by first-generation Catholic 
students who entered higher ed­
ucation as members of a non­
WASP proletariat looking for 
better credentials. 

But the Banjamins of the world 
already belong to the bourgeoise. 
Besides that, they are apt to 
believe that Good Sportsmanship 
is something invented by people 
over 30 to put them off. But they, 
alas, do believe in capital-lettered 
Right Thinking. 

Thus, while "The Graduate" 
and "Knutc Rockne" have super­
ficial differences which tempt one 
to usc them to illustrate the gener­
ation gap, they actually share a 
ncar-fatal flaw: a naive concep­
tion of what it is to live the moral 
life. 

The adults in "The Graduate" 
arc as cardboard a group of 
"heavies" as are the snarling 
Army linemen in "Rockne," and 
the copyright goodness of Gipp is 
quite as offensive to the sensitive 
person as the equally made-in­
Hollywood innocence of Ben­
jamin. 

The old-time values of "Rock­ne" may be somewhat anachron­istic, but as substitutes we must have something more substantial than the pap we are given in "The Graduate." Football is a great game, but it does not closely approximate the complex­ities of the moral life. "The Grad­uate" is, in many ways, an engag­ing movie, but the rather narcissistic romanticism of Ben­jamin is ill-equipped to deal with anything more subtle than a cow­boy movie's black-hat, white-hat notions of personal virtue and social ethics. · 
In short, Notre Dame docs not always win The Big Game, des­pite developing character; nor docs True Love necessarily tri­umph over The Establishment, even in Northern California. 
Sorry about that, Knute. Sorry about that; Ben. 
Richard Conklin is Assistant Director of Public Information ·at Notre Damo. 

UNIVERSITY 

SLCaBealtg 
THE Student Life Council, the tripartite board designed to· es­tablish a certain. collegiality of policies and decisions among stu­dents, faculty and administration, is out of the planning stage and onto the conference table. 
Meeting Oct. 22 in the Center for Continuing· Education, the SLC discussed its powers and goals with Father 'Hesburgh. 
The 24 m$!mbars from the ranks df students, faculty and admin­istration have pledged to make the slogan · "Community through Communication" mor'e than an overworked cliche and nothing less than a reality at ND. 
Stemming from a suggestion of the Board of Trustees Chairman Edmund A. Stephan after las! spring's board meeting, the SLC consists of eight representatives from each University group-in­
-cluding two ex-officio and six at large. 
The SLC will have the author­ity and responsibility for setting up policy and making decisions in all areas relating to student life at ND. Dormitory facilities, rules and regulations, and construction of additional student facilities are among the items on· its growing agenda. It also will concern. itself with the definition of power of v a r i o u s administrative offices which affect the student body, such as the dean of students and the vice-president for student af­fairs. The Council will make rec­ommendations on issues such as psychological counseling, the rec­_--tor-prefect system and food­health services at the University. 
Any decision of the Council-is subject to veto by the President of the University, but such a· veto may be appealed by the Council to the Board of Trustees. ­
Mr. Stephan said, "The Board is convinced that only with the 
Father Hesburgh addresses Student Life Council at initial meeting. 
concerted action and broad under­standing of faculty, administra­tion and student can a true com­munity become a reality at ND, since each group has a vital stake in its realization and each some­thing significant to contribute." 
The six ex-officio members ·of the SLC will be Richard Rossie, SBP, Rev. Charles McCarragher, vice president for student affairs and law school Professor Edward Murphy, chairman of the faculty 
· senate, as well as Rev. James Riehle CSC, dean of students; physics Prof. Gerald J. Jones, chairman of the student affairs committee of the faculty senate, and Charles Nau, student body vice-pres. . · Elected from a field of 29 can­didates for the six at large student seats were seniors Ron Mastriana, Michael McCauley, Damien Czar­necki and Gregg Scott and sopho­mores· Chris Wolfe and Barney Gallagher. Twenty fac.ulty members were nominated by the Senat(! and six were selected frorri this group by a faculty-wide vote. Elected were -assoc. prof. John W. Houck (busi­ness·), prof. Bernard Norling (his­tory) , prof. James · L. Massey (electrical engineering), assoc. prof. Charles W. Allen (engineer­ing), Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC (theology), and Rev. Ernest 
J. Bartell CSC (economics). 
Elected from the group of · 30 administrative personnel who ex­pressed an interest in serving on the SLC were three rectors and three deans: Rev. Thdmas E. Blantz CSC of Zahm, Rev. Laurence G. Broestl CSC of Sarin, Rev. James Shilts CSC of Farley, Dean William B. Lawless­of the Law School, Dean Bernard Waldman of Science and .Dean Frederick . Crosson of Arts and­Letters. 
,( 
Questio11 of Cou1•tesy 
THE chairman of Notre Dame's methods as "artificial," but sug­
theology department has added gested that their artificialness is 
his name to the growing list of "no more loathsome than it is in 
theologians who have taken public synthetic fibers, vascular surgery 
issue with Pope Paul's contracep­or muscular composition." 
tive-banning encyclical, Humanae Taking issue with the Church's 
Vitae. traditional opinion that the pri-. 
The Rev. James T. Burtchaell, mary role of marriage is the pro-­
esc, '56, rejected the encyclical creation of children, Burtchaell 
as "grossly inadequate and largely said such a stand "begets a 'stud­
fallacious," but also warned farm' theology." He compared 
against what he termed "a con­the contention that procreation 
traceptive mentality ... in which is the "primary end" of marriage 
a child comes just below laundry to the tongue-in-cheek allegation 
equipment on a family's list of that the "primary end" of Bap­
needs." tism is hygiene. 
Suggesting c r i t c r i a for theBurtchaell, who at 34 is· the proper birth . control,University's youngest department usc of Burtchaell said, "In this country,chairman in the oldest depart­millions of families are most likely .

ment at Notre Dame, received a pressed by medical · urgency orstanding ovation from all but a financial crisis or similarly seriousfew of a predominantly student burdens that contraception canaudience of more than 400 in the rightly relieve. But I would esti­law school auditorium. 
mate that far more couples avoid"Fear of speaking too rudely," or curtail children because theywas what he said made him wait share· the stale national attitudeuntil the Oct. 14 address to speak that resents children as so manyout against the June encyclical. 
more drains on their generosity"But in the end one cannot be and budget. Bluntly: selfishnessabject for the sake of courtesy," he is perhaps the most frequentsaid: excuse for contraception in this Maintaining that the rhythm country." He suggested that too method (the only Church-accept­many of the contraceptive-usingable means of contraception) is coupl~s who have the wherewith­the most unnatural of all artificial al to raise large families no not do means such as devices, pills or so because they fail to see "the sterilization, Burtchaell said, "It beauty of having many children." 
(rhythm) inhibits not only con­In response to those who charge ception but the expression of af­opponents of the Pope's statement fection ... It is, in my opinion, (which makes no claim to in­a base theology that would want fallibility) with being "disloyal,"intercourse to harmonize with the Burtchaell said, "it (the encycli­involuntary endocrine rhythm of cal) is perfectly liable to criticism ovulation and menstruation." 

and even open denial by Cath­He classified all. contraceptive olics of the most loyal sentiments." 
Father Burtchaell joins a chorus of controversy. 
With his wife and children R. Sargent Shriver 
P••esentatio11 
\VITH .members of the French Cabinet and Foreign Ministry and nearly a score of ambassadors in attendance, American Ambassador 
R. Sargent_ Shriverreceived Notre · Dame's Laetare Medal in Paris Sept. 21. . Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
. CSC, president of the University, conferr~d its ~ighest honor on the 52-year-old· diplomat during a reception at the Maison ·de !'Amerique Latine. Messages from President· Johnson and Secretary of State Rusk were read at the ceremony. . 
Shriver, who· earlier served as director of the Peace Corps and the Office of Economic Opportu­nity, was cited as ''a distinguished 
· diplomat, agifted administrator; a 

receive! the Laetare Medal from Father Hesburgh at the American embassy in Paris 
/ ­

compassionate Christian; a coura­geous American." ­
In these two posts, the citation declared, "you brought to public service a rare combination born of your Christian faith and cour­age stemming from ·your Amer­ican heritage. With·. uncommon_ vision and energy you exemplified. the concern of Americans for those less fortunate than them­selevs, whether disadvan-taged fel­low-citizens or people Of far-off and underdeveloped nations." 
~IRs. Shriver, the former Eunice ·Kennedy, and four of the five Shriver children joined the Ambas­sador and Father Hesburgh inthe receiving line. Laetare Medalists 
traditionally are honored for their 
.edifying private lives as well as for 
distinction in their public activi­
ties. 

Among the 150 guests attend­
ing the presentation were Frank 
M. Folsom, who received the award in 1958; the Rector of the University of Paris and represen­tatives of other French universi­ties; ND faculty members Leon Bernard and Paul Bosco and their -wives; former-faculty members Rev. Guy de Berties de Sauvigny and Rev. Jean Ranielou SJ; Dr. Frank McGuire, former vice-pres­ident of the University; ND Alumni ·and friends in France; 
·officials of the American Embas­sy; and members of the American community in Paris. 
Bossie Recall 
SIXTEEN hundred student signa­tures were recently accumulated on a campus-wide petition which set in motion constitutional mea­sures for the election recall of Student Body President Richard Rossie. The petition, initiated by several seniors, . began circulating in late September, and within one week, the necessary constitu­tional requirement of signatures of ~ of the student body was met. 
The recall election is unprece­dented in student government history at Notre Dame. In recent years, there have been widespread rumors of impeachment for past SBPs, but until this year no move-. ment had ever actually material­ized in the form of a constitu­tional mandate. 
The recall movement is con­
sidered to be a conservative back­
lash resulting from SBP Rossie's 
recent liberal and radical state­
ments in the student press and in 
speeches to the freshman class. 
In the first issue of The Scholastic, 
Rossie along with two student 
editors called for a "radical re­
structuring of the University" 
based on the premise that "the 
doctrine of progress is based upon 
change." 
The practical effects of the re­
call will be another student body 
election on October 29 in which 
Rossie will face a candidate as of 
now unannounced: The likelihood 
of Rossie being · dCfeated in the 
upcoming recall election is almost 
non-existent; however, the peti­
tion originators feel they have· 
already won a victory in that they 
have forced the Student Body 
President to be careful of what 
he says and how he says it. 
Student body president stands possible impeachment. 

Coach Johnny Dee And: His: Virtuosos: John· Plieck, Collis ]ones~ 
So111e llllposing Talent fo1•. an lm· 
NOTRE DAME's double-barreled answer to Houston's Astrodome, the Athletic and Convocation Center, is nearing completion and is scheduled for a spectacular un-. veiling the week of Dec. 1-8. The super athletic palace, convention facility and exposition center will be the focal point of one of the biggest celebrations to hit the 
midwest since Lewis and· Clark came home. 
The eight-day · extravaganza scheduled to christen the new fa­cility will include shows by top entertainers Andy Williams (Dec. 
4) and Bill Cosby {Dec. 6), · as well as the annual Notre Dame Football Banquet (Dec. 5) fea­turing Joe Garigiola and open to 
women for the first time. Also on 
tap will be a presentation by area 
School City bands, a medley of 
sports, and a panorama of area 
business and industry, in addition, 
to the formal dedication .. cere­
monies. 

The $8.6 million · twin-arena complex, which is wider than the ND football stadium, houses lOY:z acres under roof (more than the Astrodome), and is capable of accommodating a circus and bas­ketball game simultaneously, will be turned over to the University ·in late November. It combines maximum recreational facilities with the ability to handle any . type of trade show or convention. 
The complex will incorporate indoor facilities for baseball, track, golf and tennis in addition to its new hockey. rink and main arena. Also included will be handball and squash courts, a number of 
· auxiliary gymnasiums, spacious locker and training facilities and athletic and administrative offices. The highlight of ·the entire dedication week will come with the Dec: 7 invasion of the UCLA basketball team led by big "Lew Alcindor. It is that meeting which Coach Johnny Dee hopes will prove to be the jumping-off poinr for a national championship sea­son. The long-awaited upsurge in Fighting Irish basketball fortunes will not be solely the result of the 
. f 

Sid Catlett, Jim Hinga, Bob Whitmore. Sizing Up The Proving Ground. 
posing Place_ 
new palatial atmosphere. Coach -·-and plentyof it. Sid Catlett (6'9", Dee headsjnto his fourth cam-23P lbs), John Pleick (6'9", 235 paign as Irish mentor with a per-lbs), Collis Jones (6'8", 220 lbs} sonncl chart that is the envy of and Jim Hinga (6'6", 210 lbs) every coach in the land. He will should give seniors Bob Whitmore welcome back last year's NIT-(6'7") and Bob Arnzen (6'5") all seasoned starting five as well as a the help they'll need up front. talented group of sophomores that . Rounding out the squad arc sen­gave the varsity fits all last year_· ,iors ·D,vight Murphy, Jim Derrig .and should go a long way toward · and Dan -Quinn and juniors Mike doing the same to opponents this O'Connell and John Gallagher. year. In addition to improved re­
-bounding strength, Dee feels that THE sophomores expected to ND's speed and ball-handling will add pazaz to the Irish attack in­pick up this year. The added size clude sharpshooting Austin Carr is expected to tighten up the over­and Tom Sinnot and sure-handed all defense and, in effect, turn the Jack Meehan at the guard posi­offense loose to play the fast type 
tions. The biggest asset the rookie of game. that Dec likes. -­front line will have to offer is size Dec, facing what he terms as "the toughest schedule in the na­tion," feels strongly that his boys have a good shot at a national championship and he's well aware that the results of the UCLA bat­tle may have a decisive bearing on Irish fortunes. But he doesn't fig­ure it to be a one-game season. 
Dee considers himself a real dis­ciple of ND basketball records and is quick to point out that ND has won t\VO Helms Foundation national championships in 1926 and 1932, a fact that most people are not aware of. He adds that the Irish have had 17 All-Amer­icans over the years and that ND ranks tenth on the all-time basket­ball victory list. A little new blood and a return to some old form? 
i ·~.:: ·,.-., ,;. ,
1 r' • ; .. ; 
It's a SUMMA 72% complete. 
llp~ Up Ulltl••• 
That's the story of SUMMA, 
ND's most ambitious development 
program; it's also the story of a 
SUMMA construction project, 
two high-rise dorms, north of the 
Memorial Library. 
SUMMA observed its first an­
niversary in October with gifts 
totaling $37,477,855, 72 percent 
of its $52 million goal. · 
SUMMA: Notre Dame's Great­
est Challenge has as its primary 
objectives faculty development, 
graduate education, special re­
search programs, and general 
university development. 
More than 19,500 gifts from Alumni, friends, parents, corpora­tions and foundations have been made since SUMMA began last fall and thousands of volunteers have been involved in solicitation. Alumni support is at a high level -an average gift of $791-despite the fact that ND's Alumni' body is a relatively young group, with 60 percent having graduated since 1950. 
The construction of the dorms, one mini-part of the SUMMA program is also on schedule. Frame out on one will be com­pleted by Christmas;, the second by February. If all continues to go Up, Up, the dorms should be ready for occupancy in Septem­ber. 

THE ever-increasing problem of 
water pollution is receiving the 
scrutiny of two young environ­
mental engineers at Notre Dame 
these days, and with· fr:uitful re­
sults. The duo is involved in three 
distinct government-sponsored 
projects relating to water pollu­
tion abatement and their explora­
tions have begun to have impor­
tant implications. 

Drs. Wayne Echelberger, Jr., 
and Mark W. Tenney, both asso­
ciate professors of civil engineer­
ing and both with thorough train­
ing in water pollution control, are 
directing their energies and talent, 
with the help of government 
grants, toward concrete solutions 
to the problem. 

Currently the twosome is con­cluding a three-year study, fi­nanced by a $77,527 grant from the Federal Water Pollution Con­trol Administration, that has centered on the restoration of a small scum-covered lake in nearby Cassopolis, Mich~ For 30 years Cassopolis poured raw and treated sewage into Stone Lake, speeding· a process which_is becoming all too familiar in both large and 
small lakes across the nation-· eutrophication, or gradual decay. 
·Echelberger and Tenney at­tacked the lake in 1965 using it as a natural laboratory to see if sick lakes could be cured. The two scientists implemented the use of fly ash-a coal and oil fire waste product and air pollutant in its own right-and found that it can eliminate up to 90 percent of the typical-pollutants found in fresh water lakes. Fly ash was found to have amazing absorption qualities, filtering the water in much ·the same manner a cig­arette's filter works. It also re~ leases lime, further purifying the water, and settles on the lake 
bottom, retarding the release of mud ..pollutants into overlying waters. 
The engineers have two other approaches to the problem solu­tion currently underway. One is a study of the possible methods of harvesting algae from lakes. It is supported by a $70,000 grant from the Environmental Control Administration of the Department of Health, Education arid Welfare and may have future implications relating to the extraction of much of the minute plant life found in water, which under the right cir­cumstances, lends itself to decay. 

Drs. Echelberger and Tenney_. A Step In The Right 

RecoJ•tl Enrolllllellt 

An unexpected. rise in graduate sch~o! en­rollment-despite current draft pohciCs­has given ND a record enro!lment c~­cceding 7,800. The overall mcreasc IS accounted for by a total of 1,392 graduate students 140 more than last fall. Under­graduat~ enrollment actually dipped below the 6 200 mark and Law School enroll­ment 'remained constant at 265. · 
FtlClllty AlVIll"tl' 

An endowed fund to provide a $1,000 annual award for excellence in teaching at ND has been instituted through the generosity of an anonymous alumnus. The award, according to the donor's wishes, will be named after the Rev. Charles E. 
· Sheedy, C.S.C., former dean of the College of Arts and Letters for sixteen years before his recent appointment as chairman of the University's new graduate school of theology. 
F11ll Drllllltl 

The Notre . Dame-St. Mary's Theatre opened its 1969 season with the production of French playwright Eugene Ionesco's "Rhinoceros" October 18, 19, 20, 24, 25 and 26 in Washington Hall. The next fall production will be "Candida," scheduled for November 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, and 23 in Washington Hall. 
Nerv ~_,,•ogl"lllll 

The first graduate program in the history and philosophy of science to be offered at a Catholic University has been added to the curriculum at Notre Dame. 
·The new interdisciplinary program is offer­ing some courses this fall but is scheduled to get fully underway by September of 1969, according to Dr. Michael J. Crowe, director of the University's general pro­gram of liberal studies. 
NSA Co11fe••ence 
Notre Dame will host the National Stu­dent Association's Conference on Institu­
. tiona! Racism November 28, 29~ 30 and December 1 in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Notre Dame senior Michael McCauley, a· member of the National Steering Com­mittee of NSA, called the conference one of the most significant of the year. The Conference will bring together student body presidents and student leaders and activists from all over the country for an in-depth study of race and how it covertly perverts the governmental and educational institutions of America. 
eeNOTRE DAME students should 
be allowed to invite and to hear 
any person of their own choosing" 
-a pipe dream of campus lib­
erals? No, the essence of Notre 
Dame's "Open Speaker Policy," 
which is found in the· Student 
Manual. 

Charged with bringing the 
speakers to campus is junior John 
Mroz, chainnan of the-Student 
Union Academic Commission. He 
expects to spend more than 
$40,000 putting together what he 
regards as "the best speakers' 
program of any university in the 
country." Picking up the tab will 
be student government and the 
Academic Commission itself, 
which is organizing money-raising 
projects. . 

"\\That we're trying to do," ex­
plained Mroz, "is to let the stu­
dents sec both sides and then let 
them decide for themselves-this 
is the most important part.of the 
educational experience." ­

And both sides is just what the students have been shown. Tim­othy Leary, the C.'(·Harvard pro-· fessor turned (on) psychedelic high priest, told an overflow crowd in Washington Hall, "LSD is a way of life, a religion; I take . a trip to the City of God." He warned against -careless· usc · of drugs, particularly LSD, but in­sisted that "fifty years from now, everyone will be on drugs-dope is the religion of the future." 
On the same bill with Leary was Dr. Sidney Cohen, an expert on the background and effects of psychedelics. He told th~ pre­dominantly student audience: "Don't kid yourself-all is not sweetness, there arc many in­herent dangers. He reminded the audience of the risk of permanent brain damage and questioned Leary's theology of drugs: "Have these people really seen the great white light of God?" 
Leading off the academic year. was Democratic Vice-Presidential Candidate Edmund Muskie, who delivered a standard campaign speech Sept. 12 before more than 2,000 persons in Stepan Center. 
Other politicos who have taken advantage of a Notre Dame soap­box are James W. Beatty, Dem­ocratic candidate for lieutenant governor of Indiana; Michael Zagarell, the vice-presidential can­didate of the U.S. Communist Party; Senator Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, and Mark Lane, the running mate on the Dick Gregory for president cam-
Emphatic in their 
Bands 
•paign of the New Politics Party. 
Thurmond has been the only 
speaker to spark a m~jor campus 
demonstration. Before h'e began 
his Sept. 29 speech in Washington 
Hall, Dewitt Fleming, a spokes­
man for the Afro-American 
Society of Notre Dame, stood and 
blasted him with charges of racism 
and bigotry. ·About 40 black· stu­
dents and several whites walked 
out in support of Fleming's state­
ment. . 
An hour~Iong peaceful demon­
stration was conducted outside the 
hall, while Thurmond spoke and 
fielded generally hostile questions 
from the students. 
Mroz said he was satisfied with the way the demonstration was conducted, pointing out: ''Stu­-dents have the right to demon­strate their opinions with ·signs, walkouts, or whatever before or 


NOTRE DAME 1\DMISSIONS: Taking It from the Top 
IT MAY come as a shock to some Alumni that Notre Dame is now recruiting students-not just ac­cepting the best of those who come knocking at the door. In the last three years the emphasis of th<?. Admissions Office person­nel has shifted to a public rela­tions program' aimed at attracting to ND those students with desir­able characteristics who othenvise might overlook ND when con­sidering college. Briefly it means portraying the University invit­ingly, but honestly, to those who· can add to ND and who in tum will derive a special profit from their education at ND. 
Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC, director of admissions, says very little is known about ND outside·· the midwest. "The general picture you get on the east coast is that ND is a good Catholic liberal arts college that plays football," he says. "It is amazing how few high school counselors know there , 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 


TO TOE ALU~INI 
BY 

BROTHER RAPHAEL WILSON CSC 
THERE are 171 sons of Alumni in our freshman class. That's more than 10 percent of the total of 1550 students and we are very pleased to have that many. There could-perhaps even should ­have been more. We accepted 223 Alumni sons, but for 25 per­cent of these, .Notre Dame was not the No. 1 choice. 
This situation illustrates two aspects of the admissions picture at ND and other universities. Not only is the committee on admis­sions engaged in selection, the students too are involved in selec­tion-in choosing the college that best fits their needs. An examina­tion of the criteria used by both may be helpful in understanding what we are doing in the Admis­sions Office and what you and your son should be considering when deciding on a college choice. 
I would like to state emphati­cally that we have set no quota for sons of Alumni in our incoming classcs.:Wc'll accept twice as many as we do now and even more IF they meet our admissions stan­dards. That's a big IF that I will try to clarify. · 
·. An admissions policy is sound only if it conforms to the basic 
philosophy of the University. This is hardly the place for an exten­sive treatment of the philosophy · of Notre Dame. Father Hesburgh and many others from the Uni­versity have reiterated ND's goals at Universal Notre Dame Nights, Summa kickoffs and Alumni Re­unions. Nevertheless it is worth repeating that ND as a university has a primary commitment to academic excellence. In addition there is a strong dedication to the full human and spiritual develop­ment of the student. 
Consequently in the Admissions 
Office we take every step possible to assemble a student body whose. members possess excellent intellec­tual ability and whose traits of personality and character fit them for full participation in the com­munity of scholars that we call Notre Dame. What are we look­ing for? Perhaps the best way to answer that is to give. you some idea of what the students entering Notre Dame today arc like. 
Academically speaking, the cur­rent group of ND students is the most accomplished we have ever had. Don't get me wrong; I'm not saying we have not had our share of scholars in the past. I'm talking here about the "group" and group statistics. 
This year, for the first time in the history of ND, over half of the entering freshmen were in the top tenth of their high school classes. In fact, one, out of every ten students graduated either first or second in his class. I illustrate the academic achievements of cur­rent ND students to make obvious the competition that exists both for admission and for success at ND once a student is admitted. The quality-and quantity-of the instruction at ND. is geared to the capacity of the students AS A GROUP. T.lfe average student finds himself struggling to stay afloat. 
We feel the high school record is our most reliable predictor. of academic success. This is well 
supported by our res·earch. Sec­ond to this-and I do mean sec­ond-is a measure of scholastic aptitudes that correlate with per­formance in college studies. Here we turn to the verbal and mathe­matical reasoning scores of the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) given by the College Entrance Examination Board. 
FoR cx~mple, more than 10 per­an average of 577 on the verbal section and 622 on the math sec­tion of this test. In our selection process, the high school record is 
twice as important as the SAT 
scores. This makes sense. Achieve­
ment is dependent not only on 
potential but on utilization of 
that potential. For one reason or 
another many intelligent young 
men do not utilize their talents; 
the educators call them "under­
achievers." On the other hand, 
through drive and persistence, stu­
dents with lesser ability will 
achieve impressive records. We'll 
take the latter by preference they 
arc a better bet. The ideal, of 
course, is the talented .ambitious 
student who operates optimally. 
There arc scores of these at Notre 
Dame-today. 
It may seem our whole admis­
sions procedure involves predict­
ing college grades on the basis of 
high school grades and SAT 
scores. It may also seem we have 
overemphasized the academic as­
pects of c_ollcge and have nothing 
but "eggheads" at ND today. This 
is far from the truth. 
In fact, the personal qualifica­
tions of present Notre Dame stu­
dents are as impressive as their 
academic records. Using figures 
to describe the intellectual abilities 
of students is hazardous enough; 
using any kind of statistics to con­
vey their personal characteristics 
is doubly so. Realizing this, I'll 
point out a few isolated statistics 
that may convey some notion of 
the personalities and characters of · 
our students: There seems to be 
no lack of leadership-if elected 
office in ·high school is any cri­
terion. 
For example, more than 10 per­
cent of this year's freshmen were 
presidents of their senior classes 
or high school student .bodies. 
When you add to this figure all 
elected officers, it's hard to find 
a student who was not formally 
involved in the leadership of some 
group or other in high school. Literary talent combined with · leadership was characteristic of 99 freshmen (6.4 percent of the class) who were editors-in-chief . of their respective school news~ 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
-~ 

•• ' O O O ~ ~ ) O •, 0 0 .... ~-' ~ ' 4 L 
JOSEPH MULLIGAN '59, ONE OF THREE FULL-TIME ADMISSIONS 
COUNSELORS TALKS TO A 

papers or yearbooks. 
What about athletics? Would you believe that 936 Notre Dame freshmen. (60 percent of the class) earned at least one varsity letter in high school? Here's a statistic that even we find hard to believe: 295 were captains or co­captains of a varsity team! In this group there were 63 football team captains and 68 who captained more than one team. 
Does this sound like a group of students who have sacrificed per­sonal davelopment and the values of involvement in extracurricular activities for high grades and test scores? We are more thoroughly convinced each year that there are_ plenty of young men who possess outstanding intellectual and perso11al qua,lifications and who want to come to ND. 
What does all this mean to the Alumnus. whose son aspires to at­tend ND? Will an "ahunni son" be given any special consideration in the Admissions Office? In an­swer, I can say quite simply, "Yes, ­he will be given special considera--· tion." The accent here is on "consideration." We will consider him in the context of the compe­tition that eXists for admission. His record will be weighed against 
. those being admitted. · · 
IF, itl our judgment, he can be successful at ND, we will accept him. I mean we will accept him over other applicants whom we 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
PROSPECTIVE APPLICANT 
also judge would be successful at ND. Last year about 90 percent of the 4500 applicants were in this category. It meant we had to turn away several thousand who had the academic qualifications to meet the challenges at ND. Alum­ni sons will not be turned away if we are confident of their ability to face the competition in the classroom. 
I dislike using rules of thumb, but to be more specific: If an applicant is at least in the top quarter of his class and has a composite score of 1100 on the SAT, we will accept him if his personal record is satisfactory. There are exceptions, of course, but we need full documentation of extraordinary circumstances be­fore accepting an applicant with les5er abilities. · 
Maybe I shouldn't have made that last statement. It could prove to be the can of worms that I shouldn't have opened. \Vhat kind of documentation am I talk­ing about? I can better point out what kind of documentation I'm not talking about. Letters of rec-· ommendation and character ref­erences from .prominent clergy and politicians are of little value unless· these men really know the boy and have worked with him. He will be admitted on his merits -and on his real merits. 
"Like father, like son" is not always valid in the educational field. Likewise, his admission 
should be in recognition of his achievements and ability and not a reward for a father's devotion to ND. It is unfair and psycho­logically depressing to a young man to have others fight all his battles for him. Sooner or later he must fend for himself. Matu­rity is not developed in a boy by perpetuating his dependence on -others for every step of the way. Every year we have a few "pressure" eases-cases in which the theme is "It's whom you know" rather than "It's what you know." If these weren't so sad, they would be funny. With each passing week, the applicant's folder gets thicker with still more letters from still more people who don't know the boy. The old saying around any admissions office is that "the thicker the file, the thicker the 
boy." 

Fortunately many of those re­
quested to write such letters are 
well acquainted with procedures 
in our Admissions Office and let 
us know they are writing only to 
satisfy an overprotective, over­
ambitious and overanxious par­
ent. One of my treasured letters 
is in this category. The author 
stated, "I am writing at the re­
quest of John Smith whose son is 
seeking admission to Notre Dame. 
If he is qualified, I am sure you 
will accept him. If he is not, this 
letter should make no difference." 
Fortunately, only a few seek ad­
mission through "pull"; it just 
isn't compatible with the ND 
spirit. 

Finally, I would like to add a 
few words about the decision to 
come to ND. This must be the 
applicant's decision. Please don't 
say, "I'm going to send my son to 
Notre Dame." Instead say, "I'll 
be happy if my son is accepted by 
ND and chooses to go." 
AT THE outset of this article I 
stated that a fourth of the sons 
of Alumni that we accept do not 
enroll. There are some who do 
enroll who wish they were else­
where. It's difficult for a loyal 
Alumnus to believe his son does 
not wish to come to ND and it is 
still more difficult for him: to be­
lieve that it would be better for 
his son to be elsewhere. Yet this 
may be the case if his son is to 
escape living in his father's 
shadow. He must start living his 
own life. 
That's what I meant by choos­
ing a college to fit the needs of 
the student. If your son does 


CLASSES 

Dijos de Notre Dame Do,vn Mexieo "\Vay 
Notre Dame was in the running· 
at the Olympics in Mexico. Well, 
at least behind tho scenes anyway. 
It was Maj. George E. Otott 
'52 who managed the US Olympic 
weight-lifting team. And Phil Agee 
. '56 was the assistant Olympic 
Attache for the US Embassy. 
Manuel ViiJazon '56 and Enrique 
Lopez Duplan '53 designed much 
of the art work used in promoting 
the events. And it was a student, 
senior Fred Voglewede, who de­
veloped the fuel used in the 
Olympic torches. 

Major Otott, assistant director 
of the Marine Physical Fitness 
Academy at Quantico, was junior 
nationalliglitweight champion in 
1954 and holds many intercolle­
giate and Marine Corps titles. He 
has never been defeated in service 
competition and has been a mem­
ber of the Olympic Weight-lifting 
Committee and the President's 
Council on Physical Fitness. He 
won his last active competition 
title in the 1965 District of Co­
lumbia Championships-when he 
was 36 years old. 

Agee, who has spent the last eight years in South America in the US Foreign Service, had the · job of coordinating the Olympic Cultural Program. He worked with a staff of seven on the com­plex job and . they were also re­
sponsible for housing and tickets. 
The ·cultural-program was a Mexican attempt to revive the Greek concept of athletics and culture together. Highlights of the 20 cultural events \vhich coincided with the 20 athletic events were the international festival of the performing arts, a world youth camp, an international festival of children's painting, a world folk­lore festival, an international space exhibit, an exhibit of the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, an exhibit of populararts and crafts and an international meeting of sculptors. 
Viiiazon, head of the design department of the Olympic Or­ganizing Committee, enlisted a pool of talent to produce the stacks of Olympic posters that were distributed throughout the world. Expositions of the designs took place in major cities includ­ing Paris, Copenhagen and Tokyo, and they were lauded for typifying a modern Mexico with an un­paralleled spirit and enthusiasm for the Olympics. 
Villazon was responsible for the "Mexico '68" and "Paloma de la Paz". (peace dove) designs on decals and stickers which were seen on almost every vehicle and showroom window in the city. 
Duplan, who is president and general manager of Productos Victor and Cromo y Terminados, worked with Viiiazon in the design and production of the identifica­tion pins and badges worn by all the athletes, guides, medics, and press representatives during · the events. They also designed and produced one of the models for the Olympic torch which . was used in 'the relays carrying the symbolic flame from Olympia to Mexico City. Replicas of the torch were sold throughout Mexico for souvenir collectors. 
Lopez worked with the athletes and trainers during practices ·for . these relays. Voglewede, a Mexico City resident who was asked to develop a. non-explosive fuel for the torches, reports "the Mexicans had an !Jnprecedented concern with the symbolic torch as can be deducted from their dedication of an entire floor of the committee building for this purpose." 
Voglewede had the privilege of attending one of the practice re­lays . and catching the contagious spirit from the athletes, trainers, committee members and even the cheering persons along the high­ways. ·"Most of them were un­aware of· the Olympic story, but knew this symbolic flame being passed from hand to hand, country to country, and reaching its desti­nation meant a lot,", he relates. 
-ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 

looks wonderful-about 5'10" tall, 140 lbs. 338 Mountain View Ave. San Rafael, Calif.
£lass Notes 

(was much heavier) and is in good spirits for Oct. 9, CHARLES W. CALL, 1047 Biltmore Dr. '15: Happy Birthdays The following is an a man deprived of all worldly goods when he Winter Haven, Fla. 33880. Oct. 26, JAMES G. excerpt from 'a letter from L. D. KEESLAR '15, 
left Cuba. He and his family have what it WALLACE, 1132 Bellevue Ave., Syracuse, NY West Palm' Beach, Fla. "Sure glad to receive 
takes. He is 75 years old. He is living with a 13204. Oct. 30, JOSEPH T. RILEY, 715 Hackley your birthday greetings. I assure you I always 
son at 1416 Warren Pl., Lafayette, Ind. 47905. Bldg., Muskegon, Mich. 49400. read the Class '15 column first every time I 
I hope all his old friends will drop him a line. Sorry to report the passing of THOMAS D. receive an issue-then I go over and read a 
My wife Vida and I are busy at. our cabin MOTT JR PhB. LLB. Tom won the U. "philoso· lot of other items which take my eye. Always on Boulder Lake, Boulder, Wis. Some of you phy medal"-practiced law in Los Angeles, think of you and hope you are enjoying good 1916 a line. be coming to in and
boys drop me I'll here an· Spokane 1936 served as health, happiness and prosperity through '68 
other month. We feed deer, racoons, foxes, Chairman of the board for B. G. EWING skunks and other small animals every day­Paper Co. until his retirement. Survived by his often all at the same· time. They gel along wife Dorothy, a daughter, Katherine and a and all your future years. I hope I can make 
it to our next Reunion." fine. daughter-in-law wile of THOMAS D. MOTT IV, 
. ROBERT L. ROACH '15, Muscatine, Iowa, 
Grover Miller who passed away 1962.
w'rote: "Got quite a kick out of reprint of 
7208 S. Main St. Pleased to report that we have not heardJOHN McSHANE '15 writeup in the May-June Racine, Wis. 53403 of anyone being on 'sick call'-sincerely trustissue. It brought back memories of my job as the 'gang' is enjoying the best of health.
assistant editor of the· '15 Dome. ·I had the With vacations over-perhaps-we will havetask of writing mast af the little biography '17: Notes on Board and Lodging in some interesting news next issue. Better waitbits-one of which was an Mac. Northern Indiana And now that the good 
until after the football season. Hope it will be "Since writing you last in the spring I have old Oliver of fond memory, as good old 
"NUMBER ONE" far the team and coach. May you live best
been elected pres. of the·· recently formed Father Cavanaugh used to say, (is everybody to be a hundred and enjoy the St. Matthias Church Council. Thought I was all old!) has gone the way of all flesh or of 
of health. through with these 'good feather' jobs but bricks and stone, if you prefer, let u's pause George B. Waage couldn't turn this one down. The Council is to recall in disbelief, its slogan around the 3305 Wrightwood Ave. made up of 18 laymen, a fine cross-section of turn of the century, as the saying goes, "A Chicago, Ill. 60647 the parish, and so far all is working fine-room and a bath for a dollar and a half." excellent cooperation. And they didn't mean a broom closet with '19: No News Here "Am also chair;,an af the board of trustees a shower at the end of the hall, either. Theodore C. Rademaker of Mescaline General Hasp. and just 0 few How many remember Sweeney, the house Peru foundry Co. days ago signed a· contract with a firm to go detective for many years, and Art Diamond, Peru, Ind. 46900 ahead on planning a major expansion of our the bald night clerk who looked like a 130-bed hospital. So you see 1 am still in the pawnbroker. And the three genial managers, '20: Sorry About This ring, Old Abe Frank and his son, Ben, whose only James H. Ryan "Have been 0 bit disturbed by same of the ambition was Ia beat GEORGE GIPP at bil· 2470 East Ave. Apt. 314 terrific changes at NO and some hard-fa· liards, Andy Weisberg and his waxe~ 'st?che, Rochester, N.Y. 14610 understand incidents that have taken place who would stand for almost. anythmg tf he there in the last year ar two-but hope the was su.re you would pay f~r·tl th~ next day,'21: Let's Hear From You administration will tighten up on the radicals and Jtm Dev.an~y, ?n lnsher Wtth a real Dan W. Duffy and put a. stop Ia the kind of statements and brogue, who tl IS sa•d. would pap far ? fifth 1030 Nail. City E. Bldg.
6th activity that damage the wonderful old image on Sunday afternoon tf NO won and tf you Cleveland, Ohio 44114 of NO that has been shared by millions of its could shed real tears to prove yo~ were friends_ over the years " I tao Bob had bone dry. The catch was you had to ltsten to '22 We Send S th 
· ' ' ' h' t ld d' 't 1 • : ympa Y We regret to
hoped that NO might be spared such develop· ts een-year-o pro tgy son rect e c asstc poetry by the hour with the admonition, report the death of one mare beloved class· ments. 
"Now mind ye, 'tis a gift and say no more." male: JOHN J. HUETHER of Schenectady, CHARLES J. BAAB '00 celebrated his 90th The Mishawaka Hotel has been razed for NY, who died Jan. 22 alter a long illness. birthday July 28. He assisted in designing and the conventional reason, another parking lot; John • was an exe~utive. of the General 
building the first wireless telegraphy in Amer· 
the future of the Hotel Elkhart is grave in· ~l:ctnc Co.,_ and !eltred '" Jul~, 1961. J~hn ica while at NO. He has been actively involved deed, and this is an intentional pun. The JOt ned GE. tmmed10tely .after h~s grad~altonin Boy Scout work since 1920 and is Seoul· Spaulding in Michigan City, where the Navy !rom NO wtth a degree 1n ~leclrtcal e~gmeer·
ing's oldest_ volunteer with continuous registra· 
football team used to stay, has been closed mg, .magna cum l?ude. Hts first asstgnmenl lion in the Wyoming Valley (Pa.) Council. He for a couple of years. But do nat despair, ';'as '" the. alternaltng curr~nl department;. At and his wife live in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. · the Rumeley in La Porte offers retirement lime of reltrement. he. ha~ !'sen to _the postllo,n 
Now.!Hat space permits I will include some apartments with full room service in their cur· of mg.r• of_ ~he electrtc ultltty rei allons of GE s replies the '68 Reunion committee of the rent advertising which reminds us that VINCE electnc ~ltltty ~ales. ~oh_n was a member of Alumni Office received re: possible attendance RUMELEY, who was in Carroll Hall for two several mdustrtal socteltes, the Schenectady in June. DANIEL R. FOLEY '11 said,·"No-om · or.three years during our prep school days, Rotary and was on the board of the Sche­83 years now and my legs have nearly given passed away last year. nectady Foundation. In 195~ he was named out.,-have been unable to get out of the And now to· close the door in your face, NO Man of _the Year f?r hts ~o~e ?rea. In house for nearly two years." He resides at as it were, please do not ask how to get 1963 he recetved a spec10l mertt cttatton from 
1448 Davis Dr., Ft. Myers, Fla. 33901. HARRY rooms in the Morris Inn especially during the Father Hesburgh. 
J. KIRK '13, "In my 79th Yr.-<ommitments for f tball seasa ' We extend our loving sympathy to the 00 n. widow, Mrs. Alice G. Huether, 2488 Hilltop.
the future are uncertain h·ere. · May God re· Dan E. Hilgartner '17 
Rd., Schenectady 12309, and to a son, Richardward you for the inquiry." His address is 
P.O. Box 75 John of the same address.
Carroll Manor, 4922 LaSalle Rd., Hyattsville, 
Harbert, Mich. 49115 

Our grateful appreciation is directed toMd. 20782. 
WALTER RAUBER '23 of GE, who thoughtfully
J~HN B.. PICK '02, "I would be happy to '18: Celebrations Galore Birthday greet· passed on to us the foregoing information. go tf I th~ught t.here would be so::'eone in s _Oct. 5 PETER J. RONCHETII 1242 This is the lime of year when wonderfulthere that I knew 1n my student days. QB. g . ' . . ' 
nostalgic memories come flitting back to us of
1900, Center 1901, yds. sec .. 1342 Cambrtdge Dr. Corpus Chnstt, Tex. 78404.
100 9•4/ 5 

golden autumn days on the Campus-watchingNinth Ave., So., West Bend, . Wis. 53095). 0~1. 7, T_H<?S· H. KING, 27 Cham berry the gridiron exploits of our '22 football·player
FRANK J: SHAUGHNESSY SR ·o6L, "Due to 0 · Ctrcle, Loutsvtlle, Ky. 40200. Oct. 10, LOUIS 1 • • • • 'bl I E. WAGNER, 17 Wood St., Danbury, Conn. classmates performing under the critical eyes 06812.
eg a.~putalton tl ts tmpasst e to trove Oct. 13, MAXIMILIAN G.· KAZUS, of KNUTE ROCKNE. Where are those gallant alone. (131 Brock Ave. S., Montreal West, 101 ·Knox Ave. Buffalo, NY 14216. ·act. 14, football men of '22 who brought football fame Quebec, Canada.) JOSEPH T. RILEY, 715 Hackley Bldg. Muskegon, and radiance to NO in earlier days: EDDIE I will appreciate hearing from members of Mich. Nov. 14, RAY C. "BUTCH" WHIPPLE, ANDERSON, "HUNK" ANDERSON, DAN 50-Year Club beginning with the Class of 373 Western Ave. Joliet Ill. Nov. 16, FRANK COUGHLIN, "CHUCK" CROWLEY, JIM 1891. ?(. RYDZEWSKI, 8355 Burley Ave. Chicago, Ill. DOOLEY, "CHET" GRANT, "CURLEY" LAM· Albert A. Kuhle "BODIE" ANDRENS, 424 Missouri St. Fairfield, BEAU, HARRY MEHRE, Dr. JOHN MOHART, 117 Sunset Ave. Calif. 94533. Nov. 23, WILLIAM J. ANDRES, BOB PHELAN, GEORGE PROKOP, "BUCK" LaGrange, Ill. 60525 410 Dorchester Rd. Rochester, NY. 14610. Oct. SHAW,. EARL WALSH, and "CHET" WYNNE. 29, C. G. "CHUBBY" CORCORAN, '17, 1801 Some became renowned in the field of 
'16: Welcome Back, Emilio 1 met our Lowell Ave. Springfield, Ill. 62704. Nov. 8, coaching in both: collegiate and professional classmate EMILIO R. SALAZAR, his ·wile PAUL FOGARTY, 5S55 Sheridan Rd. Chicago, ranks. and daughter in Racine and had three de· Ill. 60640. Eddie Anderson was at Iowa and Holy Cross ­
lightlul luncheons and lang visits. Emilio Wedding Anniversary-HUGH S. CARROLL, and head coach of the College All-Stars one 
21

ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
year, He performed the unusual by soundly 
trouncing the professionals. 

Harry Mehre coached at Georgia, also, at Miss. U. Buck Show coached at Santa Clara U. later he guided the professional Son Francisco '49ers and in his very lost football coaching assignment won a world's championship for the Philadelphia Eagles. 
Hunk Anderson had the toughest coaching assignment of all-succeeding Knute Rockne at NO, where he performed admirably with all things considered. later, Hunk become affili­ated with the Chicago Bears and became one of the greatest of professional line coaches. 
· The Denver Register issue of Aug. 18 had a fine write-up on Hunk. 
The greatest professional football dynasty of all time-the Green Boy Packers-was started by one of our classmates, Earl Curley lambeau, who as player-coach in Green Bay induced local businessmen to support his team. For several years Curley was co-coach of the College All-Stars football team jointly with our own Hunk Anderson. Harry Mehre and Chet Grant in the field of sports writing become respected football sports writers, columnists and analysts. 
G. A. "Kid" 'Ashe 
Apt. 604 Roosevelt Hotel Walnut at 23rd 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103 
'23: Come Again? 

louis V. 8ruggner 7667 Riverside Dr. Apt. A South Bend, Ind. 46616 
'24: We Need A Secretary 

'25: Dome Delivery LAWRENCE STRABLE '23 very thoughtfully sent me a letter to be forwarded to GEORGE CHAO ·that he will 
send a '25 DOME to George when he gets his address. lawrence has a retail and whole­sale lumber business in Saginaw, Mich. He mentioned that he sees Bill HURLEY of Sagi­naw quite often. Thanks lawrence. 
ART SAJESKI wrote some time ago: "After a few years in retail drug business I joined the medicol-detail-staff of Eli lilly & Co, After 35 years with this fine co. I have taken early retirement, golf, deep sea fishing, green, thumb, bowling and billiards. Boy, this is living! My daughter and her husband and three grandchildren live only 35 miles away. Would like to hear from some of the phar­macy gang-JOHN BIANCHI, H. D. CREVIS­TON NORB SKELLY RAY SOBATZKI WOZ~ NIAK brothers and .ti;;, other old cronles. My addrcss-393 A Avenida Castilla laguna Hills Calif. 92653." ' ' 
Madeline Corcoran sent me a note that her husband, JOHN T. CORCORAN died on Sept. 10th in St. Vincent's Hospital-Bridgeport, Conn. Mrs. Corcoran mentioned-"John and I, in 1963, had a delightful trip to NO. Such a lovely memory I shall always cherish." Word was sent to the Alumni office and HANK WURZER. A Class Mass will be said. Our deepest sympathy to John's widow and please add JOHN C. to your list when pray­ing for your classmates. 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdale Rd. Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'(. 
'26: Give Us The Word 

1. N. Gelson 
200 E. 42nd St. New York, N.Y. 10017 
'27: Times Have Changed College students have been g-etting a great deal of publicity these days, much of it unfavorable. The demonstrations we read about in newspapers and see on television do not affect our gen· 
22 

eration, except perhaps as parents, but they do cause us some concern. The goals of 
· education are vastly different from what they were 40 years ago. Now it seems the greatest emphasis is placed on "academic freedom." The student apparently is exposed to all kinds of teaching and philosophy. We were taught that certain truths were eternal, and anyone who contradicted them was in error. Now it develops that every kind of thought, whether true or false, must be pre­sented and students can choose which to ac· cept. The passage of years does work changes that sometimes are hard to evaluate. 
As I started to write these notes, I received word that BERNIE ABROTT died Sept. 9. We all remember him as head cheerleader during our days on Campus. Bernie was also a mem­ber of the varsity baseball team and played interhall football. The law class will especially remember him as a good student and friend. Bernie was a resident of California during his student days and lived in Oakland at the time of his death. Father HARRY RYAN of Bur­lington, Iowa has been asked Ia say a Mass for him; let us all remember him in our prayers. 
Al W. MILLER, whose home was Massillon, Ohio in his student days is now full time city engineer of Ottawa, Ill. 
DAN CUNNINGHAM presents an interesting suggestion. He points ·out that unfortunately we have come to that time of life when we 
to Central America where Rev. JIM McSHANE ,is located. Many classmates sent pictures taken ot the Reunion. Our Class Pres., ED QUINN, tells me that FRANCIS MEYER pre­sented him with a collection of pictures taken at the Reunion that are mounted on display boards. Please send me· other pictures taken at the Reunion. I have suggested to Ed Quinn that we try to get copies to you. We are very indebted to Francis Meyer for the outstanding job he has done over the years at our Reunions and cocktail parties ·in taking pictures of the Class and ina king them· avail­able. 
ED CUNNINGHAM had a very serious throat operation. Please remember him in your prayers and write to him in Ward 9600, County General Ho.sp., los Angeles, Calif. doubt if many classmates realized how· ill Ed vias when they saw him at the Reunion in June. 
The HOWARD V. PHALIN Foundation for graduate study has been established to award graduate fellowships each year at De Paul, NO, Northwestern, and Roosevelt. Congratu~ lations Howie o'n this well·earn'ed recognition on the occasion of your retirement as chair_· man of the board and chief officer of Freed Enterprises-Educational Corp. 
louis F. Buckley 6415 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, Ill. 

can no longer count on being able to see one '29: Too Much Sad News to Report 
another at five year intervals. He thinks we should do it more often, of least in our own 
· areas, and suggests it might be a goad idea to run annual get-togethers in local areas since not everyone can gel back for a football game. He says that over the years he has probably run into more classmates at home games than at any other time except at the five year Reunions, but says that this has been a chancy sort of thing and thinks that a party in the various home regions should work out very well. Dan's idea has possibilities. Per­haps those af you in the larger cities that had a good. representation in our undergraduate days can develop it. 
Clarence 1. RuddyIll W. Downe Pl. Aurora, 111. 60504 
28: Grads at the Helm JOHN W. CAVA­NAUGH was elected to the board of trustees of Chicago-Kent Col. of law. John has also served on boards of regents at Marquette U. and Dominican Col. Other '28 men who serie or have served on college boards include JOHN ROBINSON (Connecticut State Col., U. of Hartford, Albertus Magnus Cal. and Con· necticut Higher Education Commission), HOW­ARD PHALIN (NO, DePaul, St. Procopius), ED McKEOWN (St. Procopius). Al DAVIS (Aquinas, St. Mary's, St. Xavier), ED DUFFY (Trinity), LARRY WINGERTER (St. Mary's). Please advise of additions to this list. 
JOHN FONTANA received an lionorary de· gree in May ·from · Rio Grande Col., thus joining the following classmates who hold honorary degrees: Howard Phalin (NO and St. Procapius), JOE· BREIG (St. Vincent and Carroll), JOHN CULLINAN (Duquesne), and JIM SHOCKNESSY (Wilberforce), Who else should be included? 
BILL MURPHY informed me MARION HEF­FERNAN received the 1968 "Man of the Year Award" from the louisville NO Club. Other classmates receiving such awards include JOHN ROBINSON, BOB HAMILTON and Howard Pholin. I om· sure there are a number -of others who should be added to this list. Please advise. 
letters are continuing to arrive which in­clude new superlatives describing our 40th Reunion. They come all the way from Alaska·· where SWEDE SCHROEDER was on vacation Being your 'secretary has its sobering and sad aspects. In mid-September far example, Betty Cushman, 415 Wakewa Ave., South Bend, widow of JOHN CUSHMAN wrote ••• "I assume that you knew that Jack died suddenly and quite unexpectedly an Nov. 20, 1967." In spite of the fact that I knew John well, as the fine Christian gentleman and ardent rooter for NO that he was, and in spite ·af his residence. being within a mile af my own, neither 1 (nor the Alumni Office) knew of his untimely death until fully ten months later. We make this belated and most sincere expres­sian of sympathy to Betty and to those close to John, in behalf of the Class and personally. We will include him in our prayers. 
Similarly we must report the· Aug. 17 death of WILLARD F. BRIEN, 1235 Portage Ave., South Bend. Willard is survived by his wife, four sons, two daughters and 18 grandchil­dren. He was buried from Holy Cross parish Aug. 20. He had been in his terminal illness for more than three months. We add the sympathy and p(ayers of his many friends in the Class of '29 to those which his brave family have already received. We too share your loss. 
Then in Ieday's (Sept. 24) mail we have a letter from Kathryn V. Salmon, 2256 Cardinal Place, St. Paul, Minn., widow of GILMORE 
A. SALMON, telling us that Gil passed away April 20. Again there was a communication lag ·between the Twin City NO Alumni and our records on ihe· Campus. We ·regret these lapses, but I can see how they. occur. In the case of John Cushman . for example; the Stauders were in Milwaukee that week for the funeral of Mrs. Stauder's father. We might have missed the obituary column even if we had been in town, but it is less likely. We send Mrs. Salmon our sympathy ·and recom· mend her intentions to your prayers. 
EDWARD J. LEAHY, Elmhurst, Ill., was back for the Purdue game. His brother, Rev. JAMES LEAHY . CSC, lives in Holy, Cross House cid~ jacent ·to the Campus. 
JAMES P. KENNEDY, 6554 W. Imlay, Chi­cago, is recovering from a stroke and heart attack. He is making good progress and is starting a new business venture. God willing, he_ will see you in June '69. 
CLETE SCHNEIDER, who was here for the Purdue get-together, writes briefly "KARL 
. ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 

" . ~-~ . ' ..~ ·--..-.-..---' 

Dick and his family in your prayers. 

Thanks to JACK HOYT I received a photo­graph published in the New York Times show­ing Patty and PAT CROWLEY welcoming Harry Belafonte to a McCarthy-lor-President-party in their lovely apartment overlooking Lake Michi· gen. The news report described the Chicago convention party and stated the Crowleys have two of their own children and 12 foster chil­dren, one of whom they adopted. They also have been "parents" to 50 to 75 foreign stu­dents. No wonder the Crowleys were awarded the laetare medal! 
REUNION NOTES: RAY BRANCHEAU re· turned to his first Reunion since graduation and immediately collided with his old team mate, NORM GREENEY. KARL VOGELHEIM has been a regular at all of our Reunions and was very helpful in planning this one. He was un­successful, however, in getting our senior class pres. FRAN WERNER to return. TONY CROW­LEY, BILL DONAHUE, NORM DUKE, JOE KIRINCICH, Pres. MAURIE LEE, MARTY MORAN, PAUL O'NEIL, LARRY SEXTON and DON WISE, who stayed on for LLBs in 1935, recalled law school days and mourned the un· timely passing of classmate ED VYZRAL. BOB LEWIS, who came to the gathering with BERNIE LENAHAN, told me he has retired from the FBI and is now vice-pres. of an insurance company in Indianapolis-sorry Bob, I've forgotten the name. 
DICK HOSTENY, who attended, has also re· tired from the FBI. I used to meet Dick quite frequently before WW II on the elevator of the Bankers Bldg., Chicago. Maurie Lee and I were in law offices directly below the Bureau's Chicago headquarters. ANDREW BOTTI, as he did five years ago, was busy taking pictures. JIM GEREND and JERRY GREER are two regu­_lars who also haven't missed. 
I sincerely hope you will use the yellow card, inserted in the last ALUMNUS, to send me news. Better still, write a long letter and tell me what you wish to see in our column. The ALUMNUS will now be published eight times per year. We should receive the news currently at more frequent intervals. 
Nov. 30 I plan to attend the NO-Southern Cal game and will be at the Ambassador Hotel. Please call or visit if you are in Los Angeles that night. 
Charles A. Conley 100 E. Turnbull Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34: Blankety Blank 

Edward F. Mansfield 523 W. Hillsdale San Mateo, Calif. 94403 
'35: Fair Catch of Prizes For the first time I was about to submit-reluctantly-a blank lor the '35 column when I received a note from BOB SHANAHAN, Mt. Clemens, Mich. He sent a cut from a recent issue of the local newspaper which should be of interest to all those who. knew Bob. Following are excerpts: 
"Bob Shanahan figures· to bring home some prizes for his woodworking entries at the Michigan State Fair. If he does, it will be a particularly significant victory since he is the only blind person entered in fair competition. The items entered in the competition are prize pieces from the hundreds he has turned out in the last two years for a new business run from his home at 24950 Murray Drive. 
Shanahan was a store mgr. in 1959 when a detached retina caused him to lose sight in one eye. "That didn't cause me· much trou­ble," he said. "I kept on working.'' But in 1964 the same ailment in the other eye left him sightles-s. After weeks of hospitalization and treatment he resigned himself to a life of blindness. He received a guide dog and en­rolled in Detroit's Rehabilitation Institute. 
24 

There he learned Braille and typing and spent pres. in US during those two yrs. One son some time in the Institute's carpentry shop. . attended U. of Ariz. and one son is a HS A lathe drew his attention: By the time he Sr.-same wife. Back at NO about six yrs. completed classes at the Institute he was in­ago. Didn't see JOHN MORAN so thought terested enough to purchase a lathe and other I was on the wrong Campus! John, his family tools for his home, and now turns out dozens and mine inseparable until we departed Dallas of gavels and sounding boards, candlesticks, for Tucson and he left lor back east. Anyone goblets and bowls. He even has mcide a few passing thru Ariz. please contact me or new nightsticks for policemen.'' Club pres. here by name of MIKE SOPHY who 
At the State Fair Bob reports that he won 
married an Israeli girl so _maybe· my term had four ribbons-three firsts and a fourth! some effect! Moved here nine yrs. ago. Fine city but NEEDS INDUSTRY in case any affluent
In the last issue I cited the example of 
NO industrialist glance at this column.· Home

JERRY MOLINARI who fought odds to regain 
address: 3932 E. Poe, Tucson. Would like to

his health, and here is another example of 
hear from JOE BUCCI, LEB CIFRESE and 

one of our classmates who is exemplifying 
EMILIO GERVASIO (last two mentioned from

that NO spirit. Bob's address is 24950 Murray 
Morristown, NJ), Fathers Hesburgh, Joyce and

Drive, Mt. Clemens, Mich. Notes from those 
Walsh.

of you who knew Bob would be well received. 
Buddy will do anything to keep the ecu­

Incidentally, he mentioned that he is planning 
menical movement on the gol My love and

to be at the Purdue game. Haw is that for 
respects to all the members of the Class of
spirit? 
'36 which I believe is NO's only legit Alumni

FRANK HOCHREITER wrote the sad news 
group-all others are drop outs from Brandeis

that his daughter Judy, 25, passed away on 
U. I agree, period.

April 17. In her honor the Baltimore City 
William H. Fieweger, vice-pres. of cor·

Hosp. and the City Welfare Dept. established 
porate relations of Kimberly Clark, has been

the "Judith Ann Hochreiter Memorial Fund" to 
named to the St. Norbert Col. board of trus·

provide an annual award to a person making 
tees. He joins four other laymen and two 

an outstanding contribution in the field of 
clergy on the board · that became predom•

child welfare. Frank mentioned of his remain· 
inantly laymen a year ago.

ing children Claudia is on the faculty of the 
Joseph P. Fox has recently been appointed

U. of Md. Medical school and Chris is a junior 
pres. of Champion Knitwear. ' 
at the Col. of Notre Dame of Maryland. 

Bro. Simon Scribner was named "Piper Pro­Frank remarried in 1966, and now has three fessor of 1968" by the Minnie Stevens Piper
stepchildren in addition to his own. He con· 
Foundation of San Antonia. He is the first 

tinues as the executive director of the Balli· 
SEU . professor to receive the honor. He has 

more City Comm\ssion on Aging. It was cer­
been teaching at St. Edward's U. since 1946. 

tainly nice to hear from Frank, even though 
Larry Palkovic 
his message carried sad news. 

301 Mechanic St. Bro. FERGUS (Bill) BURNS CSC wrote he Orange, N.J. 07050 is now located in Chicago and will be li-, brarian at Holy Trinity HS. He is replacin_g'37: Challenging the Private Corpo-
Bro. ROMANUS RINGWELSKI CSC who 1s • ­taking up duties as asst. librarian at Holy ratton GEORGE BONFIELD was the first to Cross Junior Col. at NO. use the postcard insert and what a long line 
The ALUMNI office reports that C. T. Wll· h~ gave to all a~out raising 12 'chil~ren (7 . LIAMSEN has been elected secretary of the gnls-5 bo~s) ~oviOg from St. Augustine and American Assoc. lor Contamination Control. then to Mlam.l • where at leas! cloth~s are 
. . kept to the m101mum. George IS look10g for 
The l~st _ALUMNUS earned a y:llow card 10· TOM WHITE to set him up with 0 shopping ~ert. Th1_s IS an easy way to qu!ckly pass on center as he h·as the customers right at home. !nformat1~n !o you~ secretary. With planned His business is Marine sales in Fla. and he '
0 

IOcrease 10 nsues !~ the .!uture we sure could do.esn't· even own a boat. The Bonfield corp. use some of those yella cards! is still trying to recover from a visit with 
W. F. Ryan the REARDONS. Remember to watch Iowa 7620 E. Washington this year and KERRY REARDON. South Bend, Ind. 46617 BERNIE NIEZER took No. 2 son, Bill, to 
'36: Long Hot News Shortage Due to the live in Alumni-Hall as a fresh this year. I incessant hot and humid Jersey weather made the trip with son, Kevin, but· in travels (worst in the US) I just ·haven't had the around campus missed Bernie. Kevin was energy to write. Lack of ambition I guess. lucky to get the 4th floor of Zahm, and I'm Not much news either. LEO McFARLAND mighty glad it is one hall· that has an ele­from Lansing, Mich. writes: Wish there were valor. Met VINCE McCOOLA on Campus more '36ers around. Glad to hear about bringing his son there. Vince has a brand any of them in your column, .except those who new job with the State of Po., Director of have passed on. Wish the Class could meet Office of Non-Public School Funds for the more often-five yrs. is a long time. Have Dept. of Ed. -what this means is he has a fine club here. Met on UNO nile with' the task of drafting rules and regulations to DICK ROSENTHAL, a real fine gentleman. implement the state's aid to nonpublic school Anyone ever hear of DUCASSA , (Panama programs as under the Non Public Elementary Canal Zone), FORD, PETERS, PILNEY, SHAKE-& Secondary Ed. Act. This will be a· "first" SPEARE, DE GARMO and others~ SAFFA is and you can bet· well tested before the pro· back in Tulsa, Okla. Shakespeare is in Cin· gram is complete. Son, Brian, is the fresh· cinnati, Ohio. Peters travels around the coun· man of the group with· Dennis at home • . try for some airline and is here, there and CHARLIE HUFNAGEL MD is completing a everywhere. In closing Lee wishes we could 10-month tour of duty on board the hosp. all meet again soon. Says "hi" to JOEY ship SS Hope in Ceylon. He is also prof. of DONNINO and JOE MAHAR. surgery at Georgetown as you well know. 
BUDDY GOLDMAN from Tucson, Ariz. Charlie just missed the last Reunion. writes: .Was going to commission PAUL FOLEY Please remember in your prayers CLIFFORD to write a copy but since his appearance in MIHM, Borger, Tex. who died in August and TIME his rate· has gone sky high. After these WILLIAM (Bill) LYNCH of Chicago, who many years returned to the campus (U. of died Sept. 7. MATT MciNERNY, brother-in-law, Ariz.) and earned a EdM. Taught a year ·reported this and we were represented by there and now handle publications and public NED WILSON, BOB DUCEY and TOM Me· relations for a led. founded evaluation center. CARTHY. Bill had been restricted since an Just completed two yrs. _as pres. of Tucs.on ·attack in April. NO Alumni-probably only kosher Alumni JOE MANGELLI, teacher in· Bloomfield HS 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 

looks forward to renewing old acquaintances with HARRY BOISVERT in Sherman Oaks. 
One of my better sources of news JIM DONOGHUE sent a brief article announcing a series of lectures by Dr. COLMAN J. O'NEILL, a teacher and lecturer at many hospitals and schools in the Chicago area. Although he left ND alter his freshman year, he has made all of our Reunions. 
We hear WILBER A. KAMM has been named pres. of the Central State Bank of Lakeville, Ind. He is former agent and mgr. of Kamm & Schellinger Co., Mishawaka. 
Received notice that JIM DANER of Doner, Freeman, McKenzie & Matthews was elected to fellowship by the American College of Trial Lawyers. Membership in the college, which is a post of honor, is by invitation of the board of regents. Jim is the first attorney in Macomb County (Mich.) to be elected to the college. 
ED SOMMERER has been named mgr. of in· dustrial sales and services lor the Bendix Auto· motive Service Div. He has. been manager of sales administration and customer service since 1966. 
JIM CANNON is quite a student. He has received a LLB from Suffolk U. In addition to his AB from ND he also holds master's and PhD degrees from Yale. He is treasurer and director of Viatron Computers Corp. At one
BOB SHANAHAN '35 
time I thought that getting my master's degree With fruits of his labor. (See '35 column) from DePaul U. last year was an accomplish­
ment. played handball with one of my neighbors journ in St. Joseph, Mich. DAVE CONNOR, Please dig out that yellow card from the and claims I never make a NJ Club meeting, the Casey Stengel of our Class, moved from last issue of the ALUMNUS which was void but he. doesn't even write a postcard. • • • Detroit to Acme Fast Freight Terminal, 1400 of '40 news and send some info to help your 
Again, use the postcard -keep the "good friend Shorty.
Gest St., Cincinnati. TOM ATKINSON shifted from Calif. to 165 Cambridge St., Winchester, Robert G. Sanford
news" coming. Joseph P. Quinn Mass.-<l fair size shift, na1 LARRY STEWART 233 W. Central Ave. made the big move from Ferguson, Mo. to Lombard, Ill. 60148
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenape Andover, N.J. 07821 

223 Royal Ave., St. Louis, Mo. A number merely moved across the tracks '41• Now Hear This? 
'38: We'll Miss Bob' Sad news just received. in the same old burg: BOB DuBOIS to 2105 • James F. Spellman . ROBERT "BOB" LEONARD died Sept. 5 from E. Cedar, South Bend; JACK SCOTT to 864 Spellman and Madden cancer-<lccording to word 1 received from Rose, W. Lafayette (Purdue), Ind.; BILL FISH 342 Madison Ave. ED WRAPP from the U. of Chicago. Bob lived to 4731 Dalebridge Rd., Apt. B-26 Warrens· New York, N.Y. 10017 in Wilmington, Del. and worked for Du Pont ville, Ohio; BILL ARNOLD to 14231 Georgia since his graduation from ND. According to Ave., Silver Spring, Md.; HANK MACKIN to '42: Ship Ahoy We were extremely happy his brother TOM '35, Bob leaves his wife Beci 300 W. 6th St., Momence, Ill.; MELVIN to hear from our classmate, ROGER W. and three children. Let's oil remember Bob in LAMBRECHT to 3649 Greenbay Dr., Dayton, BROWN, who retired from the USN os Com· our prayers. He will be the first to have 0 Ohio; and JIM BOYLE to 1376 Oakland Dr., · mander SC after 26 years. On Aug. 1, Roger Mass said for him by Rev. JOE RACE from the Sycamore, Ill. went to work for the Columbus division of memorial funds started at our recent Reunion. Burnie Bauer North American Rockwell corp. as an engi· Happier news was notice from JOHN CLIF· 1139 Western Ave. neering planning analyst in their quality as· FORD of• Wilmette that his daughter Carol South Bend, Ind. 46625 surance and logistics div. He says he has married. Thomas Fitzgerald, a lawyer of Chi-found it .quite a change swapping off the cago; ·Also a thank-you nate for local Re· '39: Car 39, where Are You? Navy blue and gold for a business suit every union committeemen from NICK LAMBERTO, · Joseph E. Hannon day, but is adjusting very rapidly. We wish Des Moines Register and Tribun'e's finest re-1804 Greenwood Dr. Roger Brown the very best in his new career. porter•.Highlights of Nick's career as reporter South Bend, Ind. 46614 Congratulations to VICTOR J. GULYASSY on were written up recently ·and included his being elected pres. of the ND Club of .Cieve­
coverage of Nikita Khrushchev's visit to Iowa, '40: Did I Shake You Up? It is my sincere land. being first to reach Charles Starkweather hope that at least 0 few of you were really Our deepest sympathy to the family of when he was captured after killing 11 persons :'shook" at the complete lack of news about. QUENTIN MARSHALL who passed away July in Neb. and Wyo. and other episodes com-the Men of '40 in the last issue of the ALUM· 31. Remember Quentin in your prayers. bining his reporter and Air Force experiences. NUS. It is only the second time in over three Please remember in your prayers also, Mrs. 
JOE QUINN, Class of '37 secretary, showed years that we have missed but it is very Margaret B. Hickey, mother of your secretary,
0 

great neighborliness by sending me a story accurate reporting of every bit of corre· WILLIAM HICKEY. Mrs. Hickey passed away about my old 4th floor Badin Hall roomy, spandence 1 had received at that time-namely on August 31 after a serious illness. JOE WEHRLE·. of Punxsutawney, Pa.-the none. William M. Hickey groundhog capital of the world-in the Penn· Received 0 mast interesting letter from BEN 5500 West 73rd Street sylvania Millers and Feed Dealers Assoc.· SAELI who moved from Toledo, Ohio to Cer· Chicago, Illinois 60638 
magazine. Joe is the new slate director ·of ritos, Calif. 90701. The address is 17731 S., • the organization. Joe is pres. of the Mahon· Gridley Rd. and he invites anyone in the area 43: Thanks from the Prestdent Follow· ing Valley Milling Co. which makes its own to drop in for 0 visit. Ben had an ·excellent ing is an excerpt from the letter of Rev. feed.in addition to dealing in cement, roofing, medical practice in the Toledo area for some THEODORE HESBURGH to OLLIE HUNTER and seeds and fertilizer. The latter was a natural 20 years and now is associated with the the Class of '43: "I am dictating this just 
for Joe. I am sure, the way he 'used to throw Artesia Medical clinic in Southern Cal. The before taking off for Europe, but I did want the stuff around verbally back in Brownson, move of-. four children and three adults was to send at least a brief ward of sincere Badin, etc. rather arduous but well worth the effort. Ben. gratitude to you and the Class of '43 far the 
You guys still gel around. FRANCIS MEYER, also wrote, ';Recently, DAVE HOLMAN and wonderful gifts you presented to me this the aero engineer, moved from Glendale, family flew down from Florence, Ore. in his morning-the fine portrait, the unusual clock Calif. to 80 Polecat Rd. (that's right-no own plane and we got together with RAY and the very handsome silver pitcher. I comment), Fox Valley, ·Glen Mills, Po. BILL ZALLER and wife Lucy who reside in the cherish more than I can say these remem· McCARTHY from NY to 1640 Walnut Ave., near-by Pacific Palisades where some of the brances of my 25th anniversary from the 25-· Winter Park, Fla. (Mark that down for this homes are being washed into the ocean. Soon year Reunion Class and I am deeply grateful winter.) JOHNNY MOIR is back at 239 N. he will be moving to a less exclusive but to all of you for making the occasion such ­Jefferson, Van Wert, Ohio alter a brief so· more secure area here in Dairy Valley." Ben·-a memorable and happy one far me and, 
25

ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER especially, far the great dedication and gen-. erosity you have shown to Notre Dame during. these years." 
In recognizing the good work of many of our classmates in connection with the Re­union, your poor old secretary made his first grave oversight in failing to acknowledge. the hard work and untiring efforts of Ollie. (Please, Mrs. Hunter, forgive me.) Ollie has. agreed to stay on as Class Agent for our Class, which amounts to acting as liaison man between the Class and the Foundation Stall. 
The Kaiser Clan attended a most enjoyable summer outing at the DICK McHUGH '42 farm near Manhattan, Ill. Also present were ED RYAN '42, his wile and family of eight from Minneapolis where Ed is in the con­struction business; LEO LANIGAN '42,. from' Chicago where he is practicing law; TOM POWERS '42, his wile and lour daughters from Chicaqo where Tom is a police reporter lor the Chicago Tribune; and DAVE CONDON, his wife and five daughters from Chicago where Dave is a sports writer and conducts the "In the Wake of the News" column lor the Chicago Tribune. 
Your secretary was in Chicago for the All­Star football game and spent a couple of pleasant days with "BUD" DUDLEY who was attending various All-Star activities pro­moting the lOth Annual liberty Bowl game in its new home in Memphis. The following 
appeared in Dave Condon's column: "Dudley a son, Quentin Jr, a freshman at Keenan Hall. is founder and owner of the youngest big-time • Cook County, .111. men, don't forget ED­
· bowl game. At least Bud is convinced that WARD V. HANRAHAN, former US Attorney . the Liberty. Bowl has grown cif age in its new and now a candidate lor State's Attorney. home in Memphis. 'last December we gave Ohio men, remember JOHN GILLIGAN, can­both participating schools-Georgia and North didate for the U.S. Senate. Carolina State-$120,000 each,' said Dudley. 
Frank Kaiser 

The July issue of Atlantic Monthly contained 307 Cherry
this tribute to our late classmate, FRANK 
Chatsworth, Ill. 60921 

HERBERT: "His family, his friends, his asso­ciates at the Atlantic and the Atlantic Monthly ,44• Guess Again 
Press and the publishing world s~llered a . • cruel and untimely lass when, an May 16, Joseph A. Neufeld Frank Herbert died after a brief illness. " P.O. Box 853 
"A NYC native and a magna cum laude Green Bay, Wis. 54305 graduate of NO, he joined the Atlantic short­ly alter his W?rld "'!or II service. in the Navy '45· ·Pomp . Circumstance and 111. 
and became c~rculohon manager 1n 1948. For • · ' . 
years he was groomed for the responsibilities Dr. ~RANK_ MARTIN, the fo~mer thm-clod, h_as of publisher, a job he assumed in 1965 with receoved hos degree and ot was done woth a characteristic mixture of decisiveness and proper pomp and ceremony. All decked out gracefulness. A man of worm directness and in Cop and Gown,. Frank was presented with honesty, he respected the reader more than his BS degree by GORDON FORUTER, pres. the dollar the principle more than the prin-of the NY Club. Frank and Barbara hod a cipal. H: leapt with enthusiasm to ideas for real g!aduotion party with their 11 children improving the quality of the magazine, for and froends. 
increasing the rewords of those who write for Congratulations Ia FRANK CULHANE on his it and the satisfactions of those who read it. election of. vice-pres., and trees. of Hart We at the Atlantic owe his memory much, Schaffner and Marx. and we will long miss him." F. M. Linehan 
QUENTIN STURM, Radio Station WTEL, P.O. Box 5000 4140 Old York Rd., Philadelphia 19140, has Binghamton, N.Y. 13902 
DAN FERRONE '59 

SoiiJI S1uls b11t lVIu1t 11 lV11y to Go 
SoAP opera, daytime drama or re­ 
spectably sordid family viewing .••  
Call it what you will, it's been  
an important . stepping-stone in  
the career of Dan Ferrone '59.  
When he .wasn't drinking coffee  
with Mrs. Olsen, chewing those  
candy breath mints or scrubbing  
up with Cashmere Bouquet, Dan  
Ferrone was Alan 'Sterling on  
i: !  "Love of Life" for nine months. After that gestation period and more Mounds bars, Dentyne and  
Kraft Food_s, he's been at it again  
-this time as Lou in "The Days  
of Our Lives." Now he'll soon  
screen in a new no-suds evening  
series, "My Friend Tony."  
Asked for some inside informa­ 
tion on future twists of the plot  
in "The Days of Our Lives," Fer­ 
rone replied he can't honestly tell  
when he'll be on again, let alone  
where the story is going. "The  
producer plays a little suspense  
game with the actors so they'll not  
be tempted to play as if they had  
foreknowledge · of developments  
which their: characters could not  
possess," he says. "But I guar­ 
antee a continued powerful diet  
of misunderstanding,-misconduct,  
grief and disaster that should in­ 
vite the empathy of any soap fan."  
Dan is one husband who hopes  
the soap operas are around for­ 
ever-because they make special  
26  

demands on an ·actor. He lists among these the ability to· mem­orize quickly, to perform under live television pressure and to act out a great number of scenes in a single role. 
In "My Friend Tony" Dan plays Jeff Pryor, a regular char­acter (meaning only someone who is seen every week) . He says the role is not one of great dramatic value to the viewer but a step, nevertheless, in an actor's career. NBC plans to introduce the series perhaps as early as December, depending on the · fate of the shows in the September lineup. When the filming schedule allows, Ferrone will also be ·making 
.scenes in episod~s of "Judd for the Defense" and "Adam-12." For'a'young man (with an even younger face), Dan Ferrone has 
· an impressive list of credits. On Broadway he played Rolf in "The Sound of· Music" and he's done off-Broadway and stock shows and a couple of movies. He has also guest starred on TV in "The Big Valley," "Gunsmoke," "The Patty Duke Show" and others. He played the title role in "Robin Hood," an NBC children's theatre color ·special. . 
Having sampled a little of everything, Dan still has a posi­tive attitude toward it all. He doesn't even feel disdain toward 
. commercials. He likes them "be­cause ·"the. pressure on so many people from the product-maker to the advertising agency personnel to· the film ·producer to the art department to the director to the actor and back again to make the commercial a commercial success often· turns up ·much of the best production seen on TV. And, if it is a success, everybody sharcs.in the commercial success. Whether a commercial is beautiful or an­noying or bland or ugly makes lit­
. -tie difference as long as it sells the· product." · ·· And a pair of Irish eyes seem to help get that job done. 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 

<I r' 
· '46: Just a Few Items J. F. SLATER has been named petroleum product supervisor for the Standard Oil Farm and Home Center sched· uled to open In mid-October in Warsaw, Ind. Bro. WALTER FOKEN is celebrating his 25th anniversary in the brotherhood. He is treasurer and steward of Cathedral HS, Indianapolis, teacher of five typing classes, business mana· ger of athletics, chairman of the business dept., director of student workers and hikes lor an hour each day. Bro. CHARLES BORROMEO BECK is also cele· brating his 25th anniversary in the brother· hood. Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 
'47: A New Man Takes Over Alter con· sultation with the ALUMNUS editors concern· ing our lack of a Class secretary, I have agreed Ia take on the responsibility for the balance of this year. Pres. BillY HASSETI may make a replacement if he wishes to by simply answering the. many letters sent to him by the ALUMNUS editors since the death of classmate JACK MILES. Jack's shoes are very large ••• I_ will try to do them justice. Now for the brief news • • 
WilliAM D. MANLY has been appointed Vice-Pres. of the .materials systems div. of Union Carbide Corp. He will headquarter in NYC. JOHN MUEllER is now the plant man· ager of Anheuser-Busch's $40,000,000 Jackson• ville, Fla. brewery. ERNEST L CLAUSING has been named regional industrial engineer for the Penn Central Co. His home base is Pittsburgh. 
Many of you knew me as JIM OWEN dur· ing Campus days. I hope the transition· to DEAN is not loa traumatic. I do manage• ment consulting work as J. Dean Owen & Assoc. In addition· I own a personnel recruit· ing service known as National Employm.ent Service. 
he led off for the Badin Hall Bombers. Good field and good hit. 
GENE SUlliVAN sent me a lengthy and entertaining letter sometime ago -has seen and worked with many ND men in recent days. Gene coached basketball at college for six years, was executive director of the Boys' Club of Cicero, Ill. for eight years and is now Asst. Regional Director Boys' Clubs of America in Chicago. He married, has five youngsters, two in high school. Gene has crossed trails with BOB WORTHINGTON, his ex-roommate, has worked with Bill "MOOSE" FISCHER in Green Bay, and BOB WOELFLE '64, JOHNNY DEE and JOE YONTO in S.B. Gene tells of running into TOM HIGGINS '48, a hospital administrator in Detroit and TOM BROGAN '48 in Chicago. Gene said he'd like a note from ex-roommate AUGJE AVEl­lEYRA Jr. Still in Ft. Dodge, Augiei 
Bill BROCKHOFF writing from Conover, 
N.C. is looking forward to the '69 Reunion. Bill, forever young, continues to seek new challenges and is studying Spanish in the company of a couple of ·his teen-agers, Jeanne and John. In fact, Bill would like to correspond in a light way with any Spanish· speaking Alumni who might be interested. 
The yellow card response has been good but with more frequent issues of the ALUM­NUS in the offing, I will need copy. When writing, please indicate your Reunion plans for June '69. Flying in, driving, looking for a ride, have auto space to share, etc. Certain Class members will be receiving individual letters from me regarding our '69 Reunion. I'll appreciate your thinking and assistance. Meanwhile, I have cards from JOHN COR­RIGAN, PAUL BAILEY and HARRY ENGEL· BRECHT for the next issue -but, I need one more ••• from you! 
Leo L. Wesley 155 Driftwood Lane Rochester, New York 14617 

How about you1 I would like to pass on '50: Double OOPS to our classmates news on your present John W. Thornton activities and successes. This column will be 4400 Monserrate St. as good as you help me make it. Will you Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 be a giver, or only a taker1 
J. Dean Owen ,51 O S th R .
2709 Morton : ur ympa y, enee Ju~t s1x mont~s 
St. Joseph Mich 49085 
· ' ' 

'48: OOPS! 
George J. Keenan 177 Rolling Hills Rd. Clifton, N.J. 07013 

'49: Say it Short 'n Sweet Editor John Thurin has armed all Class secretaries with new . guidelines for future issues of the ALUMNUS -shorter columns bui'-more issues (eight per year): The net result for you and ·me1 More opportunities to promote Class interest and pride. With only 750 words per• milled me, ·J must be about my rounds. I mentioned pride. Our Class boasts a couple of colonels now, Lt. Cols. WALT HAASON and CHAS. WAGNER. (Any birds or stars out there1) Both men recently wrote me on their activities. From Walt-"have put-in for retirement but Vietnam might keep us from becoming civilians lor a while yet. Engi· neers are in a top priority bracket." Received news of Al BZDULA thru PETE KERNAN who forwarded to me a note that "Buzzy" had sent him. The letterhead was marked GE Co., Chemical Materials Dept., Pittsfield, Mass. A. J. BZDULA, Sales Mgr. AI (or Buzzy) apparently was acknowledging Pete's plea to all '49ers to keep up the Class financial support. He mentioned seeing BILL MANLY in the Union Carbide corporate .of· flees in NYC. Said Buzz "he was· top dog at their Haynes Stellite plant at Kokomo." ·Can still see· Buzz-lining a single to left as 
ago we reported on JOHN 0 NEill, h1s wile Renee and their five boys. Now we ask your prayers lor John who died suddenly of a heart attack on Sept. 13 and especially your prayers lor his family, This was very sudden as John had just had a complete physical two mo-nths ago and passed everything with flying colors. Thanks to JACK MORGAN, John's former roommate, who was in town that weekend and telephoned us with the sad news. · Jack and his wile Veronica (Popescu) were married in 1960 and have two children, Tommy (6) and Chucky (3). They live at 24941 Chicago, Dearborn, Mich. 48124. Jack is the area dis­tributor lor VJSICORD office equipment. Jack also mentioned that JOHN MOORE and STAN ISLEY. were engaged in a joint ven· lure in the Detroit area and have just ter­minated this operation. It must have been successful because John has departed for Vera Beach, Fla. and . Stan is casting around for other opportunities in the area. JOHN HEL­WIG· is also reported as located in Detroit working for Go-Transport Times of the West and 1 alternating this with some scouting for the Bears. .. JIM laCESA and family have also moved, to · 200 Red. Barn lane, Barrington, Ill. 60010. However the better news is that Jim's wile Irene has had successful surgery to restore her hearing after an initial attempt on the other .ear last· year failed completely, Bill HIGGINS married Florence Phelan in 1952 and they reside at 1414 N. Monitor, Chicago, Ill. 60651. Their four children are: 
Patrick, Mary Regina, William and Eileen. Bill is a general insurance broker in our area. 
WALTER CHRISTOPHER wrote from the family establishment at 32615 Groveland Dr., Avon lake, Ohio 44012. Walt is computer mgr. for the lorain Telephone Co. He and his wife Carol (McRae) have six children: Connie, Kim, Jeff, Dave, Danny and Tom. Walt's sailing at ND has been continued in racing Thistles and lnterlakes. The Chris· tophers are also campers and two years ago they went on a six week, 8200 mile safari to the west coast. 
If you would really rather have a Buick, FRED TUCH will sell one to you at Fred Tuch Buick on the south side of Chicago. Fred and Florence (Norville) were married a week after graduation and they have three boys, Fred (15), Tom (13) and Tim (8). The older. two boys are a junior and freshman at Mendel HS, so they will have good prepare• lion for Arc. 
Because Nov. 23 is an open dale, some of the area classmates will get together Fri. night, Nov. 22 at the Cypress in Hinsdale. This is at the intersection of the Tri-State Tollway (Int. 294) and Ogden Ave. (U.S. 34), at which there is a four-way entrance and exit from the tollway. Call your classmate from the neighborhood and come out with him. look for someone from your Class in the room with the piano bar after 9 p.m. Perhaps this arrangement will supplement the yellow cards. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Warner Corp. 
200 S. Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, Ill. 60604 

'52: Off Those Rumps! The Alumni office has "up the beat" on our great ALUMNUS magazine. We will have more iwJes this year so please get off your "rumps" and send the Class secy. a few choice words. The first shot out of the cannon is a note from RICHARD CLANCY who has been named co· chairman of the professional div. of the '68-69 United Fund drive in Kankakee, Ill. Dick, who is the Class's answer to Digger O'Dell, has declared a moratorium on death in the Kan· kakee area as he will be tied up soliciting funds. Also during this period Dick is cutting out all green stamps to his customers. MATT DUGGAN got together with JACK BARRY in Buffalo recently. Jack is now living in Edmonton, Alb. with . his wife and six children. He is a co-owner in a caterpillar agency there. He is also vice-pres. af the Edmonton Opera Co. Also president of the United Fund. They all sound like great proj· eels far Jack but haw did he sneak into that opera co.1 JIM HATFIELD writes us a note to let you know of his whereabouts. "Alter 14 years in the los Angeles area, my wife, five children and myself will be transferring to Kalamazoo, Mich. with the Upjohn Co. I will work in the medical research section as computer analyst. Would be very interested in a gel· together after the Northwestern game. I will be looking forward to 're-meeting' you at the time." Dr. THOMAS F. SUlliVAN has been ap• pointed technical director of the organic chemistry div. of New England· Nuclear Corp., 
Boston. .___ . A couple of sad notes in the mail. Wll· LIAM D. AllEN '52 of Prairie Village, Ken., has passed away. Also HANK BAlliNG of Orchard Park, NY recently lost his father. JOSEPH MORIARTY who added a couple of degrees in '53 and '67 was recently awarded the "teacher of )he year" plaque by the Lions Club of. River Park in good old South Bend. · JACK BUSH in Bettendorf, Iowa ran against the tide as an independent for councilman at 
AlUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
large-and won going away. 

Bill RYAN has changed coaching jobs in the public school system in Baltimore, 
After 13 years with the FBI in NYC ED FOLEY has been promoted to the adm. staff in Wash. He will be joined by Marge and his five little ones. They'll be living at 15700 Paramont Lane in Bowie, Md. Ed would like to have some of the grads stop by and soy hello. 
JAMES E. (Jim) BAUER has been appointed gen. mgr. of Inland Container Corp., Dallas, 
have on office obligation that week-end and necessarily cast this burden on Ed. I should · know within a couple of weeks about this aspect of the game reception. 
Contingent upon the outcome of the costs of the Pitt function, we also talked about transferring the Mass fund to your control and we would work with you closely, Bud, let's see what develops. 
Waller F. (Bud) Stuhldreher JJ006 Jean Rd. S.f. Huntsville, A_la. 35803 
Tex•• Jim h.as ~een with l~la~d 14 years now ,54• Sav Me From Sullivan C · • 
and 1s mavmg m from tou•sv•lle, Ky. He and his wife Nancy and two children will be mov· ing shortly to the southwest. 
DENNIS B DELANEY has been elected to
• 

the past of Governor in the Mich. district of the Optimist International. He and his wife Jackie and four children are now living in Muskegon, Mich. Denny has achieved more laurels since leaving NO than can be ac· counted for. He's really keeping busy in northern Mich 
• William B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
"I
d F d h T

'53: Lost an oun on t e rat Heard from a long lost classmate, J. R. O'LAUGH· LIN (21 Musket Trail, Simsbury, Conn.): ·"Most loyal '53 graduates will faint at my reporting in to you since I've never done so thus far. In my wide travels I invari· ably cross the path 'of some classmates, the latest of whom include my dear roommate DICKEY NAULT, also JERRY O'CONNOR, JOE RIDGE and a host of others. Presently general mgr. maintenance sales div. Combustion Engi­
neering Inc. Sons: John, Kevin and Kelly;
daughter: Mae ea. It's wonderful to see_ how successful members of our Class have been thus far. Let's continue leading our contem· poraries." Thanks for the newsy yellow card, J.R. 
JOHN w. SHAY has been appointed head of the airborne surveillance and control sys-terns dept. of Mitre Corp. and project leader for the airborne warning and control system project. 
BRIAN DUFF, a major candidate· for the Republican nomination for secretary of_ state in 111., was defeated. (Brian lived off campus with my twin brother Bill their senior year; 1 swear they never ole anything but ham· burgers, that true, Brian?) JAMES D. KO· 
Buchanan Steel Products division, National· 
Standard 

The $98.11 balance gives the Class of '53 something to go cin toward this Mass fund. I talked with John Thurin about sending out an extensive report letter, due to the serious word limitation imposed upon. your column. He indicated that he (the University) would assume the cost of reproducing it and mailing it. I thought a modest appeal for additional funds within the report letter would move some of the free loaders to remit the $3.00. In a street side conversation with Ed last week we decided we would .put our heads together and come up with many names and a narrative blurb on each. I asked John Hauck to provide a list of our class that is presently teaching at NO for inclusion within' the report leiter. 
Following its compilation we will mail it 
to you for your review and correction. You could return it to us for the details of printing and mailing with the school. Possibly this could become a quarterly effort. 
I also talked with -Thurin about the re· ception before the Pitt game. No difficulties apparently. Some grad students make a busi· ness of obtaining the provisions far the class receptions and handle the entire project. We shall check this out as to cost and feasibility. At this time I am not certain but I may 
28 

• e . . . ome on, you ~uys. No mall aga•,n and •f you read the .last ISsue carefully you II recall !~at. our editor, 
JOHN THURIN has padded h1s hne-up, add­
• 235 lb ff · · d't TOM
0 0 1

mg • ' ens•ve ma.nag~ng e or, . SUlliVAN (bet!er ~pell '1• nghtl: Deadh~es must. be met With t•mely, mteresllng matenal or 1,11 get crunched. So you better cooperate or I II make trouble for yo~. . • 
Had a c?ll f~?m Wausau l"!•s., that ·~I from ED ' NED SEIM reporllng that h1s bride Sheila gave birth to their third child, a 
boy. My secretary, an otherwise efficient housekeeper and wife, unfortunately didn't record the date or name. What a heckuva birth announcement, huh, Ned~ 
Also heard from CHARLIE SPICKA. By now he's .in Thailand serving as 0 maj. in the Air Force. He's moved his family to St. louis during his deployment. Charlie just finished a three-year tour at the Air Force Academy. How about some of you fly boys calling me if you're ever at Scott A. F. Base. Dr. THOMAS 
. HAYES JR has accepted a position as a pa· thologist with the Food and Drug Administra· lion in Wash. 
FRANK DONLON has been named dir. of 
employee publications of Atlantic Richfield Co. Frank lives ot 6511 Denny Ave., N. Hollywood, Calif. JOE ZIEMBE has been appointed con· troller for the People-to-Feople Health Faun­dation, Inc. The Foundation sponsors project HOPE and the hospital ship SS Hope. 
And so as the sun sinks slowly in the west ·your faithful secretary stands searching, scan· ning ·the distant horizon. for the mailman-hoping against hope for a card or letter from the Class of NO-the Class of '54. And as they say at the rallies "Go you Big Green leamlll" 
Millon J. Beaudine 21 Signal Hill Blvd. 
E. St. Louis, Ill. 62203 
WALSKI has been promoted to sales mgr. of'55: Mr. and Mrs; Paul Fullmer Are 
Pleased to Announce the Adoption of a Son David Clifford Born July 3, 
1968 

Here's one advantage to being Class Secretary 
-you save 0 lot of stamps on announcements. 
I think we have 0 right tackle on the 1984 
team. Davey weighed in at 9'12 lbs. and has 
eaten everything in sight since. His big sister 
Monica, now 2'/2 , is quite interested in show­
ing ·Davey the ropes. While I'm ·plugging the 
Fullmer family, I might mention Sandra again 
won the Chicago district golf title this year, 
the first to win it four times. 

Letter of the cycle award goes to Maj. JERRY HUGHES (note the new address, Old Man), who reported in-from 716 Pine Glen, 'Selma, Ala. 36701. He reports the Purdue re· union was not in the cards, but to pass along his best to one and all (we didl), especially to 
several members of the Chicago gang, DICK 
BEEMAN, JIM GRIFFIN and JERRY BRANS-, 
· 
On his way to· Vietnam now is Rev. JOE O'DONNEll. He'll serve as a chaplain on a helicopter carrier right off the shore, which will put him right in the thick of things. His address is Rev. Joe O'Donnell, Lt., CHC, USNR, Staff Catholic Chaplain, Phibron Nine, FPO, San Francisco 96601. 
Before I get too far away from the birth announcements, I want to report that BERNIE McCLOREY and his wife Marlene welcomed twins, Mary Kay and Sean Patrick, July 26. "Double trouble and twice the fun!" as Mar­lene puts it. "These two give us a total of 
five little McC's," TOM PRENDERGAST has received his PhD in philosophy from St. touis U. His thesis is titled 
"Matter in the Physical World of Descartes." 
JERRY KUSKOWSKI has been named an ossa­ciate in the Green Bay architectural firm of Nichols Barone and Assoc. 
JIM BERGQUIST ~rapped in on his way back to another ·year of teaching history at Villa-nova. Said he almost died during summe"r school in ·un-airconditioned classrooms. Don't doubt that a bit. Jim left a news clipping from The New York Times that details the work Dr. DAVE DISCHER, my old high school buddy from Elmhurst, is doing to find out whether th"ere is a higher incidence of emphy­sema in heavy smog areas than in less smoggy parts of Los Angeles. Dave is assistant pro· fessor of preventive medicine at UCLA and director of the project that will test 5400 persons. 
Bumped into DICK COOK on the train the other day and he. mentioned he has left the company side of the advertising field to join a Chicago agel}cy, Campbeii-Mithun. Never thought I'd see "Cookie" in a gray flannel 
suit. 
Dr. ED TOOMEY wrote to explain the work 
. of The Robert F. Kennedy Mississippi Project, established to provide medical assistance in Bolivar County, Miss. as a "living, working memorial". of Senator Kennedy. "Thus for 10 physicians in Massachusetts have consented to serve a two-week tour at Bolivar County at their own expense. We shall have more par­ticipants in the falL Our immediate goals are the completion· of a mass immunization pro· gram and a concerted effort to stock a formidable drug inventory (especially anti­biotics) and_ a surplus food program. Your in' teres! will be deeply appreciated." Anyone who would like to help Ed on this project can 
contact him at Emerson Hasp. in Concord,
Mass. · 
While on the medical front, Dr. RON LORENZit:-11 (a guy who smokes a pack a week) sent me information that says each pack cuts From three to five hours out of your life. He had the idea I might take the "cure." I'm putting the note in the column, Ron, so you can recruit some guys who really need it. With those statistics, I know some guys who must be walking around dead! 
Almost forgot. to report that STEVE REBORA is the pround father of a strapping baby boy, Tony. Steve says he looks more like a football player than a basketball candidate. 
Hope to squeeze oil the Reunion news into the n'ext column. Hats off to all those who turned out for the bash after the Purdue game. 
Paul Fullmer 1922 Larkdale Dr. Gl • lll 
60025
env•ew, • · • • · 

FIElD. "I suspect ·though this time next year 55L: A New Begtnntng Effective with tliis will find me somewhere in the 'pipeline' to issue, a column will appear in each issue of Southeast Asia: (from Craig AFB). I am hoping the ALUMNUS magazine regarding· the ac·. for a fighter job (F-4C, D or E preferably)." tivities of our graduating class. I solicit your (Jerry, aren't guys in our Class too old to be letters and comments about yourself, your hotrodding it around Vietnam in jets~) I must family and your activities in your local areas admit he disproved that statement by enclosing and urge you to write me as soon as possible several snapshots of the family (four children) · in· order to get this column off the ground. that show Jerry hasn't changed a bit. ·· It will be my intention to feature about a half 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 


have changed their place of residence and the The brevity of this column serves as its own '60: Ouch, Mayor Daley Ah, fall, the 
big surprise is that Dr. LARRY COOKE left the appeal to the quiet multitude in our Class to Texas panhandle far the smog of San Mateo, break its silence and send us some news. Calif. I am led Ia believe Texans never be· Arthur L. Roule Jr. come ill so he had to go where the patients 102 "I" St. can be found. JOHN HAMMETT has returned LaPorte, Ind. 46350 from San Juan to his old stamping grounds of Rocky River, Ohio. TOM HILLIGAN has re· '59: Accident Claims Tom McDonald 
turned from the far east to the legal office, US Naval station, Memphis. Dr. JOHN COUGHLIN has left Oak Park, Ill. for Tex~s to fill the vacuum left by Larry Cooke s evacuation. 
FRED GARDNER is now with the trust dept. of Mercantile Trust Co. in University City, Mo. JOHN CASTER recently was awarded his PhD in microbiology at St. Louis U. SEAN CASSEDY has returned to school at the Harvard Bus. School. MIKE SOPHY announced his associa· lion with the law firm of Whitehill & Berger in Phoenix. 
Contrary to popular belief and rumor spread by the various news media at the Chicago Democratic convention, my office is still stand· ing and Grant and Lincoln Parks have been sanitized of all the hippies and yippies and once again are pleasant places to see. 
I sure hope I can see many of the old gang ct the coming football games. 
George W. Grable Ill W. Washington Chicago, Ill. 60602 
'58: Short Shrift The supply of news for this issue is extremely short since too few of you have taken the trouble to drop us a card. Among those who have sent us items are the following: 
BILL ROBI, 2234 Shannon Lane, Walnut Creek, Calif., wrote that he, his wife and four children recently had a brief reunion with MIKE HERB and DICK MERCY in Seattle. Mike is practicing law and he and his wife are ex· peeling their fourth child. Dick Mercy is in training with the Jesuits. Bill Robi would like to hear from BILL KANTOR. 
RONALD H. BLAKE, 2862 Maydelle Lane, Dallas, Tex. 75234, has been promoted to Capt.-and is now a regular member of the Air Force. This summer he benan an assign­ment to SMU where he will obtain a master's degree in systems engineering. Previously Ron was missile combat crew commander at Little Rock AFB. While at Little Rock Ron's crew was chosen SAC Titan II Missile Crew of the month. 
JIM DAVIS, 3401 Columbia, Vancouver, Wash. 98660, is a financial control mgr. for Weyerhauser Co. Jim is married to the former Delores McCrory. Jim and Delores now have three bays and a girl, the youngest being George Bruce, who was born April 28. Jim also reports that ROGER McSHEA is an as­sistant attorney general in Juneau, Alaska and we pass along Jim's plea for Roger to bring us. up·lo-date. 
Congratulations are in order for LAW­RENCE A. PASSARELLA, who has opened new law offices ·at 1807 N. Broadway, Melrose Park, Ill. and to Dr. JOSEPH P. EMMITE who has recently become associated with Dr. Ed­ward G. Schnake at the Dickinson Medical Clinic, 2602 Termini St., Dickinson, Tex. 
GUY WEISMANTEL is regional editor of Chemical Engineering, a McGraw-Hill publica­tion. RICHARD E. BREUNER .has been pro­moted to general manager, commercial re· search and development of Crown Zellerbach Corp. in San Francisco. 
Capt. RICHARD M. BIES has been gradu­ated from Squadron Officer School at Maxwell AFB, Ala. 
JOE MAIER relayed from BILL MORENCY the news of the death of TOM McDONALD (a tragic sailing accident on Lake Mich • .ten miles out from -Mich. City, Sept. 7). j 0 e had written me two weeks before that Tom was still a bachelor, living in Carl Sandburg Village and working for Union Tank Car Corp. Joe left Quaker Oats in May and joined Tatham· Laird & Kudner Ad agency as ace'!, exec., Abbott Labs. The Maiers finally came up with 0 halfback far Arc in '87. Stephen, barn Feb. 16, after two previous attempts produced cheerleaders Julie (4) and Carrie (3). Joe and Colleen are still "camped out" in Glen Ellyn. 

Other news from Chicago's western suburbs (supplied by Joe} is that BOB JANOSKI, wife Mary and daughter Beth, are also in Glen Ellyn, and Bob is a lawyer with Amer. Nat'l bank. Mary and JOE GALVIN, the insurance tycoon with Equitable, are neighbors, and welcomed their third arrival, a girl, in August. PAT KEATING lives in the ritzy. section of town-Glen Ellyn Woods. Pat is with Con· Ieiner Corp. as personnel mgr. and has three children. Sue and BILL MORENCY, district mgr. with Equitable, recently scored with a girl after two boys. ·The Morencys, Galvins, 
· Janoskis and Maiers all gather for a monthly bridge game. Joe's final note is that MIKE SEAMAN and wife Jerry· will be on Campus for one of the Nov. games. Mike recently changed jobs, moving to Motorola as con· troller of one of its divisions. 
JOHN FINN is weslerr. ·director of Young Americans for Freedom, a nat'l conservative youth organization of 30,000 members, and has started two conservative paperback book 
.publishing companies, La Jolla Rancho Press and Cabrillo Press, serving. as publisher. John's wife is expecting No. 6 (3 boys and 2 girls). John saw BILL BRELSFORD coming out of a La Jolla, Calif. health club, and found out that Bill is finishing his PhD in history at UCLA. Dr. E. GEORGE MAY JR is now stationed at Grissom AFB, Ind. after completing OB-Gyn at Cook County. Hasp., Chicago. George and Phyllis have three chil· dren, Beverly (4), Michael (3), and Karen (2). 
BILL CASEY stopped by the office on Aug. 15 on his way from Mansfield, 0. (spent the summer in charge of the swimming program ol linden Swim Club) to Niles, Ill. He is now in charge of the intra-mural program at Notre Dame HS. Incidentally Bill won the Greater Mansfield Aquatic Conf. champion· ship, the second year in a row. His team has now won 20 straight meets. Bill's room· mate of junior -year, RICHARP "BRUCE" , CHRISTEN was married to Janice Vaughn of Indianapolis on Aug. 3. -Karen and BILL LUDWIG (three sans} are living in Columbus, 
0. where Bill is with Amer. Seating Co. RONALD E. LaMAR has been appointed mgr. of the Ft. lauderdale ·office of Thomson & McKinnon. Ron previously managed the in· vestment firm's office in Kenosha, Wis. RUDY 
HORNISH is now ad mgr., information sys· terns, Sylvania Electric Products, Inc. PETER 
J. PETRIE has recently been appointed con' sumer research project mgr, of the North American Div. of Mobil Oil's market and con· sumer research dept. 
Condolences to BERNIE DIERKS and PETER wonderful season with the familiar sights and sounds of the thud of leather against skin, 
the air filled with missiles and the pushing, chanting crowds. But, enough about the con· vention, it's 'time for football! ·Or shall say it has been. After all seven games have gone into history. 
HEAR AND THEIR: Mrs. MIKE WARD and Tommy, Michael, Jimmy and Mary Pat wrote for dad. "August he began with Amer. Cy. of NJ in process engr. div. We are very active in local affairs. He expects to run for a school board seat next January, Now active in GOP club and its committees. He sees PAT McDONALD, father of three fre· quently." Thanks Mrs. W.l JIM RADDE SJ , has left Campion HS for San Miguei~_Argen­tina for theology studies. Still three .or four years to ordination~ JERRY LEPPEK is a case· work supr. _in the Chicago area. Dr. JOHN "JARDY" DURBURG is presently at St. Francis. in Evanston far fourth year of gen. sur. resi· dency. He has service ahead and then prac· lice in Chicago. Dr. CHUCK SMITH is alive and well at Mayo. SPITZERs and four should be in DC by now. HIRONs left So. Bend far Los Alamos. HASTEDs and three are in Santa Fe. "D. JERRY McGLYNN has recently taken on a new consulting account-Bicen· tennial Civic Improvement Corp. of St. L. He is acting as exec. dir. of a not-for-profit housing corp. that is rehabilitating inner city slums and placing families for less than pre· veiling rents. Jerry continues other activities of McGlynn Management Co. which he estab· lished." signed Jerry. LARRY KYTE your sister was given a champagne tour of Chi town recently. 
CONGRATS: LARRY THOLEN ass'! vice-pres. Wichita -Fed. Savings and Loan Assoc. He had been ass'! trees. since '64. He graduated from U. of Wash. S. & L. Ins!. School for Exec. Development in '66. He, ·Sandra and three girls reside· at 5222 E. Orme. J. THOMAS SOLON (Sept. issue) supr. of manu• factured housing, Home Bldg. Prod. Div. Owens-Corning. He will be responsible for sale of products to the prefabricated home, mobile home and recreational vehicle markets, TOM GREENE and Laurie on new home in San ·Bruno and new firm of Hession, Robb, Cr~edon, Hamlin and . Kelly (also MARION BROWNI) BAKERs on the first anniversary of their. mortgageI McKEEs on son Paul. A green with envy one to Detroit and St. Louisl 
JOHN POTORF, Jeanne and three are in Denver where he is Colo. sales supr. for a life ins. co. He also has his own insurance busi· ness. In. '66 he received the US Jaycees award as one of the ".Outstanding Young Men of America." ED RONCHELLI, linda and Stephe~ are in Oakland where he is estimator and project mgr. for Swinerton and Walberg Co. -(Gen. Contr.) LOUIS ROMANO after three years service is in Toledo .as systems rep. for RCA Computer. Div. PAT MANTEY and Joan (Smith) are living in Mt. View, Calif. where he is a research assoc. lecturer at Stanford. He is looking ·forward. to joining IBM. 'DAVE SANGER, after MA at ND in econ. and service, is hoping to work with an int'l. development firm. DUEY KERPER, Dixie cind four are in Concord, Calif. where he is ass'! mgr. 'of purchase and stores for Western Pacific RR. Will all you missing links west .of Kansas please correspond with O'Donnell· or Rogers post hostel 2500 
S. York A2, Denver, Colo. 80210. 
Thomas 1. O'Connell 3350 Everett Lake Forest, lll. 60045 

DIERKS '62 on the death of their mother. '60L: From K to K K PAUL TITUS has termi· 
THOMAS  G. SHEA  has  been  promoted  to  Joseph P. Mulligan  noted  his  long-standing  relationship  with  the  
group product mgr. in the J. B. Roerig Div., Chas. Pfizer & Co. Inc. The division produces  Admissions Office University of Notre Dame­ Koppers Co. to become associated with the . firm of Kaufman ond Kaufman, Pittsburgh. Paul  
antibiotics and prescription drugs.  Notre Dame, Ind. 46556  anticipates  a  business trip  to  Chicago  in  the  
30  ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 .NOVEMBER.  
>  

.. 
~­

near future and a visit with those af us in the Rochester, NY for five years after graduation jot a note which is a famous first for us 
area. from NO and was ordained in May of '66 for since '621" Roberta SCYOC sent her re­
BILL CUSTER and TERRY HOGAN have re­the Diocese of Savannah. During the past gards and said that she, DAVE, Dave Jr (3) cently announced address changes. Bill has two years he has served as asst. pastor in and Rosemary (1) are now living at 6203 moved to 13 ·E. Main St., Fredonia, NY Savannah. This fall he will be working out N-i·X·o-n (that's right) Dr. in Riverside, Calif. 
14063, and Terry to 100 Times Square Bldg., of Savannah in a newly formed Office of Dave has been appointed, effective Seplem· 
Rochester, NY. Christian Formation, which is responsible for ber '68, deputy district attorn~y for Riverside This appears a good time far making moves. reordinaling religious education programs on county. last February the Scyocs took a JOE MARINO is taking a one-year leave of all levels. trip to Mexico City and while in a super· absence from the FCC to attend the U. of This is all for now, and I hope to receive market picking up a few supplies, ran into Chicago law school .to do graduate work in more information from you guys and gals DICK BIES '61. They have also heard that administrative law, On his way in he will soon. If it wasn't for some of your wives I'd BILL LUFF '61 and family are living in Nev. stop at NO Ia lake in the Oklahoma game. never know what half of you were doing. Roberta closed with the comment that "pos­
He'll continue his government work till the Hope to see some of you at the games this sibly 'something newsworthy will happen be· last ·minute,· arguing a case before a US fall. fore another six years elapse other than mak­Court of Appeals on the day before he leaves Bill Henneghan ing it back to the Campus for the So. Cal. 
the FCC. 30556 Scrivo Dr. game as we did two years ago." Thanks, DICK COLLINS has left the practice of law Warren, Mich. 48092 Roberta. and teaching duties to devote full time Ia an Coincidentally the day that I received accounting firm. ·HUGH McGUIRE has set up '62: Politics, Anybody? Very little tq Roberta's news card, a note from Jan 
Mc­his own law firm in Detroit with another part· report Ia you in this issue. I'm almost NELLIS arrived. Jan informed that PAUL, ner. (lost the address, Hugh.) tempted to write an editorial about Pope whom I have been calling "Captain Mc­Still no word of, from or about POGO Paul, Eugene McCarthy, Richard Daley or Nellis" for the last six years, "stopped being REILLY, GORDY HO, JOHN BORGERDING, George Wallace in an attempt to create a Captain three years ago." Paul is cur­MIKE BOSCO, JACK D'ARCY, DON GARRITY, a dialogue with you. How about some in· rently a member of the law firm of Bona· AL KAELIN ar BOB MANNING. formation. Please. hoom, Cowen and McNellis in Ft. Wayne. John A. Di Nardo No doubt I will have seen many of you January '69, he will become a member of the 721 Hinman Ave. at the Oklahoma game which is one week local public defender staff. The McNellis' Evanston, Ill. 60202 away as I write this column••The next issue have three sons that "Paul is very proud of" should be bulging with information. -Paul Jr, leo and Vincent. They reside at '61: A Bit About Brendan By the time Yours truly gave a small going away party 5023 Gisarne Ct., Ft. Wayne. Thanks, Jan. you read this the Fighting Irish should be for STEVE WEIDNER. Steve and his growing · Our two children Erin and Keith, are both well into the 1968 season, and I hope they family are heading back to Waterloo, Iowa in school and Marge is teaching English at go all the way this year. BRENDAN O'NEILL where he will begin his law practice the first Wagner Col. on Stolen Island. I'm still with left the Air Force in '63 and went with of October. In attendance at the party were the United States -Attorney's office for the Procter & Gamble where he is sales mgr. JOHN MACHECA and his expectant wife southern district of NY and am now in the for the midwestern div. and is located in Jeanne (2nd child on way), TOM JORLING organized crime div. the western suburbs of Chicago. Brendan and his expectant wife Sandy (2nd child on ladies, if your husband is a "notoriously married DeAnna tevin from Mundelein and way), BRIAN O'NEILL and wife Cathy, PAUL negligent correspondent," pick up a pen they have two children. JERRY FITZPATRICK CROTTY (down from NY) with wife Jane and apply it to that yellow card and let us received his 'master's in PhysEd from Western and BILL SCANLON. know about his and your happenings for the Mich. and has· been leaching at Mona Shares Had .dinner with TOM EIFF the other night. last six years. HS in Muskegon, Mich. He is the head track Tom was in town for a few hours on busi· Paul K. Rooney coach and business mgr. for athletics. Jerry ness and now calls Brooklyn, NY his residence. U.S. Courthouse and his wife Sheila have three children, Chris, After his graduation from Harvard "B" this Foley Square Cathy and Joey. past June Tom accepted a job with a man· New York, N.Y. 10007 FRED WEIGAND and his· wife and their agemenl consultant firm based in Manhattan. three children are living in Keens Canyon, Capt. PAUL McKENNA JR has received the '63: Escape to Europe JERRY DOUGHERTY Ariz. and is serving with the Indian div. of USAF commendation medal for outstanding writes that he's newly married and working the public health service serving both the professional skill, knowledge and leadership for lockheed in Burbank, Cal. He's on a Hopi and Navajo Indians. Fred graduated in the performance of his duties. CARL P. three-month trip to Europe right now. Capt. J. from the U. of Mich. Med. School in '65 HOGAN has been named supervisor of the RICHARD HICKEY expects to leave the Army and interj'led cit Henry Ford Hasp. in Detroit. commercial casualty underwriting dept. at soon to return Ia graduate school. Right now DAVE RAPP, after completing two years in the the Worcester, Mass. div. of Aetna life and he's in Thailand. Home address is 230 Stale Navy, serving aboard the USS Bristol, entered Casualty. TONY BILL is busy acting in Holly· St., Batavia, NY. TOM SCOTT writes about Washington U. school of law and received a wood. He is currently in "Never. A Dull the birth of his third child last March. He's JD degree in •'66. He is now practicing law Moment," and MGM's "Ice Station Zebra," with GM in Rochester, NY with his wife with the firm of Kroening and Kelly in an espionage story. He has recenily returned Margie. TOM PETERSON is now working for St. Louis county. Dave married· the former from six months in Yugoslavia where he Eastman Kodak in Rochester 'and is sec. of the Julia Williams of Erie, Po. who is a gradu· worked in "Castle Keep." MIKE MUSJANO NO club of Rochester. ale o( Maryville Col. in St. louis. has been appointed supervisor of the contract CHARLES R. PAYNE left the Air Force as a STANLEY MEIHAUS has live children now, · dept. of Owens Corning Fiberglass Corp. captain and is now preparing for work at the three girls and two boys. He is employed supply and contracting div•. in St. touis. U. of Cal., Berkeley in optometry. Bro. JO-with Arthur Young and Co. in -Cincinnati as DAVID SCALISE has been named asst. cashier SEPH TOBIN CSC is returning to Akron, 0. a CPA. He is also a part-time accounting of Detroit Bank and Trust. to head the religious education and art depts. tecicher at Villa Madonna Col. in Covington, JEROME NEALON has received his LLD. at Hoban HS. Ky. from Fordham. He has been working for a JIM FRASER is working for ICI in Stem-MIKE FITZGIBBON wrote and told me that law firm in NYC for the last four years and ford, Conn. in the commercial development his wife Roseann just had their third child going to school at night. He is now practicing dept. TOM BRUNNER is working for Good-MauirKathryn. They·.·also have Michael and law· with Palmer, Hankin, Peyton & Hanifin in year Aerospace Corp., Akron, 0. JOHN Eileen. Mike has been with Hallmark cards his home town Binghamton. ALBERT E. HEE· CANFIELD is working on a PhD at U. of Fla. for four years and is in the Allison Pk. Po•.. KIN Ill has received his MBA from Xavier U. JIM PETERSCHMIDT is working for an MBA area. TOM RYAN now living in Vermilion,_ Capt. TERENCE P. CORRIGAN has been at Oklahoma Stale U. He is living in Tulsa. Ohio 'with his wife Carole and their three awarded his .'silver pilot wings upon gradua· TOM PAVLIK is still in the Army in El· Paso, children, Colleen, Tommy, and Cathleen has lion from USAF training cit Webb AFB .(Tex.) Tex. JOE SCOTT MAXWELL is still in Marines been promoted to asst. vice-pres. marketing And finally PETE HYLAND writes that after six at Cherry Point, NC. Rev. J. MACKEY is in at the lorain noll. bank. Tom was honored years of teaching on Stolen Island he has Auklcnd, New Zealand. DEL SALAZAR writes_ recently by the Vermilion Jaycees as "The taken a year off to gel a master's in geology he's in pilot training at Craig AFB, Ala. Young Man of the Year." DICK BALLOT had at the u; of Colorado. His new address this Dr. JAY CHOLLAK is serving .in Army at a son last year. Dick and his wife Pat live yearis 23 Cockerell Hall, Boulder, Colo. Ft. lewis. GEORGE CHOBY says "hi" from in Rockville Center, NY. H. James Krauser south of the Korean DMZ. PAT CAVANAUGH TIM HENCKEY just completed a one year 8301 Garfield St. finished St. Louis Dental School last June. 
training program with the Pacific Telephone Bethesda, Md. 20034 ROBERT J. BURKE is now with IMCO Con· and has been appointed mgr. in charge of Ieiner Co. in NY. CLIFF ANZILOTTI is re-the National City, Calif. office. Tim and his '62L: Wife Tells All Received. some wei· turning to school for postgraduate work in wife Nancy live in Chula Vista and had their come and informative news from the distaff orthodontics following discharge from Army first child in May-Tim Ill. MIKE SMITH side recently. Noting that "as husbands in August. MIKE BRITT writes from Makoti, studied theology at St. Bernard ,Seminary, are notoriously negligent correspondents, I'll Rizal, the Philippines, and says "hi." RICH­
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
ARD ANOTONSON completed PhD in chemi­cal engineering at Northwestern in February and is now employed by DuPont in NJ. 
R. MICHAEL STEVENS is now registered by the NY stock exchange and is working lor Hornblower and Weeks-Hemphill Noyes. 
Since graduation, GERALD A. NATHE has added on MS in Aerospace and an MBA from Harvard to his credentials. W. JAMES MOT­SETT JR is now living in Ft. Lauderdale alter finishing Goodbody Stockbrokers training course. JOHN MOONEY is now an asst. prof. of art at old ND. Dr. ED SCANLON is working lor the Public Health Service in Bed Lake, Minn. W. F. FRY has begun a resi­dency at D. Emanuel Hasp. in Portland, Ore. DON GILLESPIE is interning at LA in pe­diatrics, and has a year-old son. TOM WILL­MENG is interning in Duluth, Minn. DAVID 
R. FEDERICK received his DMD in June of 1967 and is working in Fulton, NY. BOB DETTELBACH is working lor B. F. Goodrich Chern. Co. as a salesman. 
To all you lucky bums who will gel to see the team this year, give a cheer and drink one lor mel 
Tom Hotopp 3121 Colonial Way Chamblee, Ga. 30005 
'63L: Double Sorrow Our deepest sympa­thies are extended Ia the families of PAUL DRISCOLL upon the death of his lather and to ED FILLENWARTH upon the death of his grandmother, Mrs. Julia Keating. It is with great delight that I make the following onnouncemimt. Alter many years of. spiritual and fatherly guidance by yours truly, . JOHN COSTELLO has finally consented to par­
take of the nuptial vows. His intended is '64: Around the world GEORGE KOCH is 
Mary Lou Fitzgerald of South Bend and they will be married at Sacred Heart Nov. 2. Unfortunately I was unable to attend our first Class Reunion. However RON D;AN­GELO, ED KEARSE, ED FULlENWARTH, BUD 
DONI US '54-FITZPATRICK '54 
MEYER '56 RINK '57 

SULLIVAN '60 DORGAN '61 
32 

MALONE and BOB SAXE did make it back to South Bend. From what I understand, due to the hospitality of John Costello, some of them did not make it to the Campus. 
Since my lost column-too long ago to remember-there has been some interesting news of our classmates to report. First of!, Daniel Paul, our second adopted son, has been with us far about 18 months now. Valerie and ED FILLENWARTH now have three children, Dan and Jack and Sheila, and are expecting a fourth sometime in 1969.­ED KEARSE was married New Years Eve, 1966, and he and Alice hove one child and expect another soon. Mary Ellen and BUD MALONE have two daughters, Mary Ellen and Valerie. Bud is in private practice in Dallas as an associate with Julius l. Turek, attorney at law. 
• Our congratulations to JIM LEKIN on his brilliant and successful appearance before the US Supreme Court. FRANK MAGGIO is in pri­vate practice in Rockford, Ill. I have heard from the grapevine that PAT CROOKS is run­ning lor the Wis. Senate. Good luck lor a successful campaign, Pat. Perhaps with your election, we will be able to get together from time to time, inasmuch as my area of respon­sibility includes .Wis. 
My apologies lor not submitting this column more frequently. In order to make my job easier, I would appreciate your taking a couple of minutes and pass along some news to me. I hope to see you all at least at one home game this year. 
Joseph R. Sullivan 1526 E. Cedar St. South Bend, Ind • 
a zone manager with Ford in Buffalo, NY alter two years in the Army at Fort Knox. He and his wile Maureen have two daughters.·· KEN SHEARON is the -owner of Shearon Bee 
Farms in Jefferson, S. Dak. TOM MacDONALD has recently been appointed on account ex. with Dean Witter and Co. at their Newport 
-Beach, Cal. office. JOHN S. McCURDY has joined the staff of O"Sullivan Rubber Corp. KENNETH ARMOUR has become registered with the NY Stock Ex; change and is working lor Hornblower & Weeks-Hemphill Noyes. PAUL TIERNEY JR has · joined the executive consultin!! staff of Fry Consultants Inc., and is working in the Chi­cago office. CHARLES 0. ELSON has received his MD degree from Washintgon U. in St. 
Louis. 
Lt. PAUL CHARRON, USN is stationed in Charleston S.C. and is assigned to the staff of the Commander-Destroyer Squadron Four. 
Paul was awarded the Navy Commendation Medal far his service in Vietnam. RICHARD RUSSELL is enrolled in the MBA program at ND. He completed service in the Marine Corps as a Capt. 
HERBERT R. MURPHY has been appointed as a kitchen "and specialty salesman far the Forest City Material Co. in Cleveland. WILLIAM -P. JOHNSON is general mgr. of the Goshen Plant at Wilson, N.C. He is married to Toni Thrall a teacher from Fallbrook, Calif. Navy Lieu­tenant JOSEPH F. MAYER received the Bronze Star Medal lor his "outstanding professional­ism, devotion to duty ·and courage under fire'" while serving as on a·dvisor to Naval forces of the Republic of Vietnam. It is America"s eighth highest decoration. NICK ETTEN gradu­ated from Loyola U. Law School and is now on .Assistant US Attorney in Chicago. 
Capt. JIM HOPPE is flying armed heli­copters in Vietnam and stationed at Vinh tong. Prior Ia entering the Army he received his MBA from U. of N.C. SAM MIRABITO is an account executive with Shearson, Hammill and Co. in San Diego. RODGER CAPSTRAW is with G.E. in Utica, NY with responsibilities in the corporate audit staff. JAY JOST re­ceived his MD from Stritch Medical School and 
is interning at Chicago Wesley Memorial Hasp. 

Congrats j ALUMNI IN rHE NEws 
Alvin J. Donius '54 has been ap­pointed manager of marketing re-· search and analysis for Norton Company. In his new position he will be responsible for marketing research activities at the corporate 
level. 

Edward B. Fitzpatrick Jr '54, a member of the ND National Alum­ni Board, was elected "to membe~­ship in the construction society ·of the Moles. Fitzpatrick is one of the youngest-of the society's limited membership-475 throughout the world. 
Gerald L. Meyer '56 has been named general manager of Cook Electric Company's Chicago-based Wirecom Division. Meyer has se~ed as general sales manager of Joseph J. Rink Jr '57 is a new vice­president ·of The United Educators Inc., publisher of The American Educator Encyclopedia and other reference books. He will have re­sponsibility for sales management, recruiting and training. 
Maj. James A. Sullivan '60 has re­ceived numerous medals of valor. Five Bronze Stars, the Distinguished Flying Cross, the Vietnamese Hon­or Medal and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry are listed a~ong his citations. Major Sullivan is now .qn special assignment at the University of Dayton~ 
Richard J. Dorgan '61, elected an assistant vice-president of James Talcott Inc., is now business-de­velopment manager for the com­:pany's Chicago district office. The 

th1s company that manufactures· . 114-year-old company, with assets more than 1000 products for the exceeding $600,000,000, provides telephone industry in the US and -business ':Vith financing, leasing and Canada. . factoring. 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 196B NOVEMBER 

·I 
'' •'"f""~·-'""•"'~"~.cl•,~'"'-"' _•,_,..,..·~w • ~ • 0 0 \ ", ", ... A •• •.'
--·~· > ... ._-' ~ 0 ~
0 0 : 0 ; ' 
JOSEPH SPERBER passed the NY -bar and is Korea in Sp. 4th Cl. FRANK HINCHEY. Frank in the Turbo Process Marketing Group. He with Amend end Amend in New York. received his MS in journalism at Ohio U. in is living in Phillipsburg, NJ. McDonnell 
All classmates are _.asked to remember in '67 end upoR completion of his military Douglas Corp. is employing the services of their prayers-RICHARD TABAK who died in service he will return to his jab as a copy JOHN J. lUCAS who got his master's from an automobile accident on Mar. 29, After editor of the Cincinnati Enquirer. the U. of Buffalo in Moy. RICH BERGEN is graduating from NO he received his MBA from Sept. 11 our Class suffered another loss. working for General Motors after returning Hofstra U. end at the time of his deeth was CHARLES "BUD" McGONIGAL was killed in from Bermuda where he was honeymooning. employed by. Cunningham end Welsh as en en auto accident in Philadelphia. He is sur­MIKE BASCLE is in the company field orgoni· advertising executive. He is survived by his vived by his wife Mary, end a two-year-old zation for Coca·Cola in Des Moines, Iowa. parents, Mr.-end Mrs. Clarence Lade end daughter, Megan. Richard H. Angelolli sister, Lorette, ' James P. Harnisch 8640 South 86th Ave., Apt. 203 
Clay Stephens -Apt. B, 863 E. Granville Rd. Justice, Ill. 60458 1100 Clove Rd. Columbus, Ohio 43224, L Staten Island, NY 10301 66 : Home At Last At last we have a , '66: McGinn Is A Red Congratulations are new address. Our distinguished builder ral­
'65: The End of Jt All BILL McGUIRE and ·in store for DAN McGINN. Dan led his NC lied to the occasion and completed construction wife Nancy (SMC '66) have bought a beautiful tourists to the championship of the Southern 10 weeks behind schedule. After five years home in Dayton,_ Ohio where for_ the past Baseball League and then went up to the of apartment living wife, children and dog year Bill has been director of the Hoyne parent club, the Cincinnati' Reds, where he are pleased at the prospect of tripping over Funeral Homes. They have one daughter, finished the season with some outstanding per· each other less frequently. PAUL NIEMEYER Kathleen· Ann.· JIM' GIAMBALVO has com· formances. Immediately alter the close of the recently moved his wife and handsome new pleted his tour of_ duty with the Army and season Dan was married to Rhea Reid in son (Jonathan Kinley, 7 lbs. 7 oz. July 23) is now working with the Northern Trust and Auburn, Neb. GORDON NASH is another of into their first house in Baltimore (27 Midhurst Savings Co. in Chicago; Jim will begin work our Class newlyweds. Gordon was married in Rd. 21212). on an MBA next spring. Chicago in August. PETE CAREY, a classmate Madge and RAY STARRMANN are celebrat­ln July MIKE SEXTON was presented with of Gordon's in college as well as law school ing the birth of Carolyn Patrice (6 lbs. 13 oz., a son, Christopher John, by -wife, linn. Mike served as one of the ushers. BILL McGANN Aug. 2). Ray has returned safely from· Viet· is in his third year at St. Louis U. Medical · married SMCer Sheila Brennan on the Campus nom and is stationed in Evanston until Octo-School, RAY SIEGFRIED was married in of NO on July 15, 1967. RUSS LOVELL be-ber. They are house hunting. BOB SEIBERT October to Milan 'Hastings of Tulsa. Their came a groom on the same day. RICH is in the Army and stationed near Saigon. honeymoon ·was combined with a trout fishing REILLY was his best man. Russ is currently He is working in a staff judge advocate of· trip down the White River in Arkansas. in his last year at Nebraska Law where he flee which, he says, is air conditioned. "If While stationed at Koral Royal Thai AFB serves as research editor of the Nebraska Law something happens," he writes, "maybe I Jst Lt. PHIL FLUSCHE became the father of a Review and as a member of the professional can go hide under my desk and use my son, Stephen Anthony. Wife Connie and his · staff of the Nebraska Crime Control Comm. typewriter as a shield." new son are in the USA but Phil has been re· Many families of '66ers have begun to grow We recently heard from Etta and SCOTTY assigned to fly the KC-135's with S.A.C. lately. DICK BOUGHAL and his ex-SMC wife MAXWELL (Quarters M-B-A, U.S. Naval Base, DICK WANDER's second son, Timothy Howard, Dawn, are the proud parents of Kevin Patrick. Philo., Po. 19112) who have just completed was born last July. Dick has been transferred Dick is graduate registrar at Adelphi U. their filth move in two years. They now to Toledo, Ohio where he is serving as Asst. while working for his MA. Dick, alter receiv-hope to be in Philly for at least two full years. Chief Chemist at the Sohio Toledo Refinery. ing his master's, will start on his PhD at NYU Grandparents are delighted to have them MIKE NEWBRAND is working for the NYC in Col. Administration. ED AUSTIN and his and the children at home. advertising firm of Ogilvy & Mather Inc. wife Kathleen, are keeping busy taking care Etta tells us that they saw PETE IPPOLITO While living in Hawthorne, NJ JIM KELLY was of their beautiful little daughter, Eileen. Ed, on his return from Vietnam, and that Scotty presented with a son, Patrick Charles, in who will receive his MBA from DePaul in has established contacts with JOE DELLA August by wife Jeannette. December, is teaching at Mendel High in MARIA, also stationed in Philly. We hope Second Lt. TOM MILLER USAF is stationed Chicago with PETE ANDREOTTI. LAWRENCE to see them and everyone else at the Navy at Duluth, Minn. where he and wife Elaine, RUSIN and his wile, Judith, received a bundle game in Philly on Nov. 2. recently had their first child. DOUG BRAN-of joy in June by the name of Christopher. All of you lucky enough Ia be in South SON is attending Northwestern Law School Larry is in his third year of medical school Bend for Irish home games drop me a line alter having served a ·Navy lour in Vietnam at Loyola in Chicago. and give me the news. and MICK DONOVAN has completed his Navy Another set of parents are BILL FIDELI and Frank Gregory obligation and was married in July to Susan his wile Bernadette, who had a daughter, -5018 Woodland Way Gardner: Kristina, in March. Bill recently received his Annandale, Va. 22003 --JOHN .KOZAK was. married in February to MS in Aerospace Engineering from the U., · -· Betty Mathi&s (Barel '67) of Lewiston, NY and ·of Md. The JACK SULLIVANS also had a 67: K~ep Those Cards and Letters is now working as a civilian attorney for daughter, Kerry, last November. MIKE TUR-Commg Beat the drum! Call out the band! the Navy in California. John's entire wedding NOCK is working as sales rep. for the Wash-Your Class secretary has returned to the type· party consisted of NO men. Receiving their ington area. CAPPY GAGNON is working writer to pass on some more gems of infer· JDs from Georgetown U. in June along with as baseball coach and English teacher at motion about your fellow classmates. There John 'were DICK RITTER; MIKE MURPHY and Kentucky Military Institute. appears to have been a lull in activity during JACK. MORAN. JOE DiGREGORIO will re· A good percentage of the Class is still the past lew months as evidenced by the ceive · his PhD in chemistry from Penn State busily occupied with student life. JACK thick layer . of dust in my box. But the last in June and reports that DAVE. CONDON and STOLTZ is attending his last year at Mar· few weeks have brought a resurgence and a wife Ginny have two children. ·oave is em· quette U. Law School. Jack, who was mar· number of letters have found their way under played at Pittsburgh Steel in Houston, TOM ried on Aug. 10 is working part time as a my door to give me something to say. GABRIEL was married in· August to Carolynn claims adjuster for Milwaukee Mutual lnsur-As always the Notre Dame family continues Caffrey at NO.. once Co. besides acting as a coach of the to grow. A daughter, Kelly Ann, was born JOHN GRIFFIN and wife Kathy, now have Nicolet Knight Swim Club. GARY O'CON-to Moni and JIM MciNERNEY on Aug. 15; three children:. Mary, John Jr. and Megan. NER, who was also married in August, is at the· Mclnerneys are living in Parsipany, NJ, John is in his fourth year at St. Louis Medical the U. of Del. working on his PhD in chemi-while Jim is completing his law studies at School and plans io intern next year with the cal engineering. JOHN "BEAR" BREZA is Fordham, Paula and FRANK GARTLAND were Air F~rce. .Alter receiving· ·his -JO degree·· in his third year of dental school at the U. blessed with a son Peter Francis on June 1. from'.Fordham Law School, RICH FRANCO has· of Detroit. ·Bear became engaged this sum· Frank who_ has just completed his active duty kept busy by both leaching law and working mer to the girl next door, BILL LASHER is with the National Guard, is beginning work for the Lambe, Blake, Hutchinson & Dunne _studying for his PhD at the U. of N.C. while with the Stuart Div. of Atlas .Chemical Co. taw firm~ his lovely wife attends Duke where she is Congratulations to you all! Capt. ED KELLY graduated from the U. of working for her master's, I had the opportunity to be in Chica!io-Texas Law School in June, was admitted to Not ell .of our Class is in the service or recently, where I was able to see a number the Texas bar end is now serving as Asst. still in school; some have completed post· of classmates. -During my stay, on Aug. 31, Steff Judge Advocate at Clinton Sherman graduate· work end ere now making them· I attended the wedding of JOHN COYLE and AFB, Okla. In June JIM EPSTEIN. was married selves known in many different areas of busi· Mary Eiff, SMC '67. John and Mary will be to Jane Ann Krigbaum of Marion, 0. Jim ness. RAY KOMAJDA got his master's from living in ihe Chicago area where John is is in his fourth year at Washington U. Medical Purdue and is in Seattle to be a research studying medicine at Stritch. Also at the School. · · engineer with the Boeing , Co. Aerospace wedding were BILL RAGEN and MIKE STOKES. Second ·Lt. JIM HEMPHILL has been trans· Group. KEN MAHIEU got his MBA from Co· Bill is teaching while taking graduate studies ferred to the Korean Military Advisory Group lumbia in June and is now working for in political science at DePaul. Mike end his end is stationed near Seoul, Korea. Also in Ingersoll-Rand Co. as en applications eng. wife Frances have recently moved from St. 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 33 
louis to Chicago, where Mike will be at· way Ia San Diego to set up residency before the football season Ia keep abreast of the lending Loyola law. having Janie join him: John is the same as team's developments. Now that's spiritl 
There have been a number of weddings . always-disgustingly healthy and in top -Another visitor in town was GREG WALTA. that have recently came to my attention. JIM physical shape. He says there is a chance He just finished his clerkship with Judge WISER was married to Beth Goodall in De· of duty in Vietnam in about another year, Doyle of the District Court in Colorado and trait. Jim and Beth will be living near Duke He still has the same NO spirit and is present· was here to accept his appointment as a University where Jim will continue his studies ly ordering the South Bend Tribune during Reginald Heber Fellow. The fellowship, co· in philosophy. TIM BUTLER and Jeanne Wedding were married in Minn. during August. Tim is now attending Yale law. 
The following weekend -Sept. 7 -BILL McNAULTY was married. Bill and his wife Ann will continue to live in Chicago while Bill is studying law at Northwestern. Among the wedding party were BILL HANIGAN and 
ANGELO CAPOZZI '56 
BILL MADDEN. Hanigan has recently com· pleted a project dealing with the latent com· 
munication potential of spiders while working Bestol"lltion lVitl1 An A1•tistic Tollcll toward his MS. He now returns to Stritch to continue his medical studies. Madden, after spending the summer in Guadalajara, has returned to study law at toyota. 
Lt. JERRY DiFALCO was married to Charlee Nevin -sister of JERRY NEVIN '67. ED CHRISTOPHER was best man at the cere· mony. Jerry and his wife will be living at Ft. Meade, Md. where he has been stationed. 
A number of our classmates have received their commissions at Quantico. RICK STRACK, KEVIN BARUTH and CHUCK RICHELL will be stationed at Ft. Sill, Okla. where they will be attending artillery school. TOM CORBETT was assigned to flight control and FRANK MARASCO will remain at Quantico. RICH HERINGTo'N has been assigned Ia the Third Marine Div. in Vietnam. 
TOM RIECK has been awarded his CPA from the U. of Ill. and is planning Ia attend. Northwestern law this year. He will, haw· ever, continue to work as a CPA. He writes that he and his wife Penny had the oppor· !unity to visit New Orleans recently where they got together with STEVE HARTEL and VERN RODEN: Steve is attending Tulane U. where he is studying law. Vern is at St. louis Medical School. 
John J. Hughes 99 W. 37th St. · 
Bayonne, New Jeney 
ART and science meet in Angelo enter the field but the main rea­'67L: Stars and Stripes Forever NOTE Capozzi '56, plastic and recon-son he gives is, "I liked it. I like MY CHANGE OF ADDRESS! I took ad· structive surgeon. In enumerating to be able to see things change
va.ntage of my vacation in August to look 
the qualities essential for success and see the end result of my I· 
around Conn. and ,-liked what I saw. By 
publication and in his field, Angelo names as para-work." · 
date of Flo I will have left the plains of Hoosierland Ia become Connecli· mount a sense of form and the He took his plastic surgery resi­cut Yankees. It means starting from scratch, ability to visualize the end result. dency at the U. of Wisconsin and 
with new procedures and another bar exam 
It is this quality that distinguishes followed this as chief of the plastic 
but we are looking forward to the move. I 
the artist from the technician. surgery department at Travis Air
must admit Ia some regret at leaving the Bend, especially with six home games this Angelo thinks he has it. Force Base. Now, in private prac­year but we will manage Ia take in Okla. Service to others, professional tice in_ San Francisco, Angelo has i1 and Purdue before the move. 
excellence, business advancement, the opportunity to utilize his crea­lj 
Maryanne and BOB KONOPA will hopefully ,,
civic and professional recognition tive imagination. With no clear­
keep us up to date on_ the midwestern ·i Alumni while I'll be able to keep in closer recently merited for him a place cut· procedures for many plastic .! 
touch with the east coast group. on the list of Outstanding Young surgery problems, the end result LEONARD "DUKE"" BONFANTI dropped me 
Men of America. lies with the technical skill and 
a long note on his doings. The Duke, after 
After graduation from Notre artistry of the surgeon. 
passing the Mass. bar, went to work in the 
contracts div. of the Mass. attorney general's Dame Angelo attended Loyola Angelo's. surgery includes con­
office. His duties include court work which Medical. His internship at St. genital and acquired deformities suits him fine. After a brief stint of active 
Francis in Evanston marked the ofall types, maxillofacial injuries, 
duty in the Army lenny returned to his work 
beginning of his interest in plastic burns·, reconstructive, cancer and
but also opened up his own office at 12 Pea· 
body Square, Peabody; Mass. The practice surgery. He had close contact with ·cosmetic surgery. He is not en­
is promising and soon he may cut out on several plastic surgeons and the gaged in any laboratory research ,.his own altogether. 
opportunity to gain insight into now but· as a member of the 
Now for the shocker! lenny has announced 
the speciality. The American teaching staff of the Plastic and
his engagement Ia Mary and has set the date 
·for the marriage April 19, 1969. That may Board .of Plastic Surgery, founded Reconstructive Surgery Center at not seem unusual Ia most of you but for those in 1937, was still in its infancy, . St. Francis Hospital he is always 
of us who lived with him, the announcement there was a small number of spe-_-engaged in clinical research. 
was a bombshell. 

cialists and a need for talented . Perhaps a new surge of Dr.
Another surprise was · Ia have JOHN 
"STRAIGHT ARROW" HARGROVE drop by surgeons. All of these factors Angelo's art-sicence may prompt our apartment last month. John was on hi1 helped Capozzi in his decision to cries of "Westward Ho." 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 


GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
Robert M. Greene (New York, Canisius) will 
act as clerk of.the court. · 
Prof. ROGER PAUL PETERS was appointed by 
Father Hesburgh to a two-year term on the 
University's Advisory Committee for Industrial 
Associates. Prof. Peters is also the law School's 
delegate Ia the University's committee on 
sponsored research. 
PROFESSOR EDWARD F. BARRETT is now 
operating the practice court program on a 
full year basis-with 20 trials planned for this 
year. He is again this fall presiding over a 
series of programs on legal medicine for the 
intern staff at Memorial and St. Joseph Has· 
pitaIs in South Bend. (The interning physicians 
act as medical witnesses for the practice court.} 
This training program, under Dr. Donald 
Olson, included this fall a mock presentation 
of medical testimony in which Professor Barrett 
acted as examining counsel; his san, David, 
'59, acted as _judge, and Jon Rubach, a third· 
year student wlio plans a career in forensic 
medicine, acted as apposing counsel. The 
medical witness was Professor Barrett's son-in· 
law, David E. Worland, '66, who is back at· 
the University lor graduate work preparatory 
to medical ·school. It was only one of many 
occasions on ·which there are lots of Barretts "in the practice court. 
MRS. HELEN WHITE, for many years the 
guiding. hand and protecting arm of NO law 
students, has. been promoted to administrative 
assistant to Dean lawless. She replaces Mrs. 
Cordia Bender, who is on leave from the Uni· 
versify. MRS. CATHARINE WILMERING, who 
retired from 13 years of full-time duty as the 
dean's secretary in 1966, is back at the law 
School on a part-time basis this year. 
Prof. Tom Shaffer ow School Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
l_n tlze October, 1968 
NOTRE DAME LAWYER 
Frank E. Booker and Richard .Morton; "The Hearsay Rull}, the St. George Plays and the Road to tlze Year Twenty­Fifty'' 
·n'!vid ]. Sargent and Philip H. 
Carboy, "Tlze Basic Protection 
Plan-Panacea or Inequity?" 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
Theology Department 

With the initiation of the Professional Program of Studies in Theology the fallowing faculty of Holy Cross Col. of Wash., joined our de· partment: Rev. Maurice E. Amen CSC, Rev. George L. Coulon CSC, Rev. William A. Toohey, CSC, Rev. John McQuade SM and Rev. Robert Nogasek CSC. 
SISTER AURELIA BICHELER '67 is chairman of the. religion dept. at MI. St. Joseph Aced· emy, Buffalo, NY. JOSEPH STRYCHASZ '68 is teaching at Bishop Timon HS, Buffalo, NY. NANCY SANDMAN '68 is continuing her studies in the doctoral program at NO, and SISTER MARY ANN JORDAN '68, JON NILSON '68, and MARY JO WEAVER '68 are also con· tinuing their studies and teaching as graduate assistants in the dept. 
REV. ROBERT McGill, a graduate student and teaching assistant, died of injuries sui· lered September 14 in a fall at St. Joseph's Hospital. He had been hospitalized lor about a week. 
Mrs. Ann Scheu Secretary, Dept. of Theology Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
·Music Department 

Considerable inquiry has been made concern· ing both our music education curriculum es· tablished (re-established} this fall and our proposed institute lor the summer session of '69. Information concerning the former is be· ing prepared and will be distributed upon its completion. 
The institute is being reviewed by the Office of Education. The deadline for a decision was to be Oct. 1, however we have received wtrd there will be a slight delay lor a VO· riety of reasons. As soon as adequate informa· lion can be compiled dissemination of all pertinent material will be made•. 
CLIFF CAILLOUET '52 has com.,leted his 30 plus program at Peabody Conservatory. He is choral director at Franklin HS, Franklin, La. Cliff, his wife Elsie and their son Dirk Steven make their home on a large farm in Brestol, La. SISTER SERENA STAUBLE '63 is presently music consultant in the archdiocese of louis· ville, Ky. 
The University Concert Band and Glee Club are again preparing itineraries lor their spring tours. The Concert Band will· be travel· ling through the southwest while the Glee Club will be going south. Should anyone de· sire information concerning either tour con· tact Robert O'Brien, Box 523, for band in· formation and Daniel Pedtke, Music Dept. lor Glee Club information. 
In an effort to maintain current files on Alumni of the music department we would appreciate if you could drop a postcard with your present address and position. It would facilitate our task and enable us to keep you informed of the activities and developments in the music dept. 
James S. Phillips University Bands, Box 523 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Law School 

The law School enrolled 267 students in August, 19 of them in the year-abroad pro· gram at the U. of london~ There were 79 (one in london} in the third-year class; 91 (18 in london} in the second; and 96, including two foreign students, in the first-year class. 
Ninety lour-more than a third-are mar· ried; two are women; 15 are veterans. Their ages range from 20 to 45, with most students in the early twenties (74 are 21 ar 22}. The students come from 83 colleges and universi­ties and from 15 states. 
The largest state group. is NY, which sent 46 law students to NO; next largest is Ill. with 35. Four other states sent more than 15 students-Mich., NJ, Ohio, and Po. 
The first-year class (96} is the result of 560 applications for admission. All are college graduates except two NO combination students. Most of the college graduates graduated in the top tenth af their college classes. 
Eighteen members of the first-year class are NO graduates. The class comes from 25 states, Japan and the Netherlands, and includes graduates of 51 colleges and universities. 
The two entering combination students mark the end of an era for the law School-which this fall abolished the combinaiion program•.. Beginning next fall all law students will be here full-time, and beginning in the 1970-71 acl!ldemic year all .will be college graduates. 
MOOT COURT FINALS. Mr. Justice Thurgood Marshall, of the Supreme Court al the US, will preside over the Moot Court final round Nov. 2. Joining him on the bench, for oral argument in a case involving the constitu­tionality of welfare residency requirements, will be Judge Roger J. Kiley, '25l, of the federal Court of Appeals in Chicago, and Judge Myron H. Bright a! the federal Court of Appeals in St. ·louis. 
Finalists for the argument~ll third-year stu· dents-are: Albert J. Bannon (Pennsylvania, St. Joseph's]; 
J. Patrick Cooney (Texas, Notre Dame}; Hugh D. Prior (Rhode Island, Providence}; and James E. Rolls (New York, Canisius), . 
.. 
~ 

John R. Brancato, "Characteriza­ June,  '68.  Tom  did  his  thesis· research  at  Weaver,  Jr.  are  nearing  the  completion  of  
tion in Religious Property Tax Exemption: What is Religion? -A Survey and a Proposed Definition and Approach'~  Argonne National lab. on sample data control of zero power reactors. He will present the re· suits of his research at the International Con· ference on the Constructive Uses of Atomic Energy in Wash., DC, November '68. Dr.  their PhD dissertations. DR. JOSEPH L. PECZ­KOWSKI '67, the first mechanical engineering student to receive a PhD degree in the con­trol systems area is at the energy controls div., Bendix Corp., South Bend, Ind.  
Student notes on proposed amend­ Marciniak is now with the Reactor Engineering Div. of Argonne doing some interesting bio·  Since February 1966, the industrial option program has been under the direction of  
ments to  the Federal Rules of  engineering  work  on  the  effects  of  environ­ James M. Dasch bach '54. Dr. Daschbach holds  
Civil Procedure on discovery and on state control of occupa­ mental conditions on some of Argonne's beagle colony and also is evaluating the proposed liquid metal fast breeder reactor facilities.  an MBA from Southern Methodist and o PhD from Oklahoma Stale. The course of study now includes· a year of work in the field in which  
tional licensing  Through  the  tireless  efforts  of  General  the  students  ore  confronted  with  real  world  
Hershey,  the  graduate  enrollment  in  the  (as opposed  to  textbook)  problems.  The  hos­ 
Student  recent-decision  notes  on  nuclear program has not grown as fast as we  pitals  in  South  Bend  and  surrounding  com·  
securities registration, amuse­ment parks under ,public-ac­commodation laws, notice in  had planned, but we do have two thesis re­search projects under way, one looking at im­proved versions of existing numerical tech­niques.for neutron transport and diffusion type  munities ore participating in this program for the third year. Nursing work measurement, Pediatric Word Nursing and Word Cleric Ac· tivities hove been studied. The work has pro­ 
federal class actions and the re­ calculations,  and  another  investigating  exten­ gressed to the point that the Indiana Hospital  
troactive· effect of In  re  Gault  sions of  the  invariant-imbedding approach  to  Association  has  hired  several  students  for  
ory ]r '66L, Roy M. Cohn and  •  radiation shielding problems. Dr. Lucey attended. the conference on  "Fast  summer projects and one graduate has been hired full time. Foundry layout and perishable  
Book reviews by Francis 1\1. Greg­W. Paul Gormley  Reactors and the University" at RPI in August. We plan to offer work in this important oreo in the near future.  tool systems have been industrial concern, which lor the second year.  studied is now  for a local participating  
Mechanical Engineering - The area of automatic control systems has been developing rapidly in the dept. A well·  Dr. Daschbach, along with Dr. Ferguson of Oklahoma State U. has received a National  
Dr. Edward W. Jerger has been named assoc.  equipped laboratory greatly enhances the pro­ Safety  Council  grant  to  continue  work  on  a  
dean  of  Engineering  (see  September  ALUM­ gram at both the undergraduate .and graduate  safety technique developed by them. They will  
NUS)  and  Dr.  K. T. Yang  has taken aver the  levels.  address  the  National Solely Congress at  Chi·  
dept.  chairmanship  for  the. current  academic  The  second  edition  of  Automatic  Control  cago in  October. A three-day seminar on  In­ 
year.  Engineering by Dr.  Francis H.  Raven  has  just  dustrial Safety, sponsored by the deportment,  
,  We  continue  news  of  those  programs  not  been published by the McGraw-Hill Book Co.,  was  held in  April, and was well attended  by  
covered  in  previous  columns.  The  nuclear  Inc.  This  book  has  been  translated  into  two  companies from  Ind.  and surrounding states.  
engineering  program  began  in  '55  as  an  foreign languages, Spanish and Hungarian. Dr.  Dr.  Doschbach  directed  a  two-day seminar  
undergraduate option. Twenty-three ND under·  Raven  is  also  the  author  of  the  textbook,  during the summer for Indiana Hospitals Head  
graduates  have  been  awarded  AEC  Fellow­ Mathematics  of  Engineering Systems.  To  pro­ Nurse  personnel  in  conjunCtion  with  the  In­ 
ships  since  that  time.  The  graduate  program  vide  world-wide  distribution,  both  of  these  diana  Hospital Services,  Inc. This seminar en­ 
began in  '65 when JOHN W. LUCEY '57 com­ textbooks  have  been  published  as  Inferno·  joyed  on  overflow  crowd  and  is  being  con­ 
pleted his doctoral work at M.l.T. and joined  tiona!  Student  Editions.  Six  students,  Paul  sidered for on annual schedule.  
the faculty. The first  PhD  in  nuclear engineer·  Boyd,  Robert  Gregory,  Russel  Jandrisevits,  Three mechanical engineering ~tudents were  
in:J was awarded  to TOM MARCINIAK '61  in  Mark Richardson, Ted Sarphie and  H. Joseph  awarded  PhD's  in  August: Ray  Brown  is  now  

JAMES L. LEKIN '63L  
'-..,,  
PRECEDENT-SETTING US Su­ constitutional rights had been  without fee; to represent impover­ 
preme Court decision that seizure  violated. He was denied the peti­ ished people in federal court.  
of a labor union's records violated  tion but JAMES L. LEKIN '60,  He won a ruling in the US  
constitutional guarantees for right­ 63L was asked to represent De­ Court of appeals that the "seizure  
of-p!ivacy marked a real victory  Forte in filing an appeal. Lekin is  appears to have been a clear in­ 
for an ND man.  one of several young lawyers in  vasion of privacy." The decision  
The case goes back to· 1959  Buffalo .who have volunteered,  went on to say "DcFortc had  
when Frank DcForte, a vice-pres.  standing to move for the suppres­ 
of Teamsters Union Local 266,  sion of the fruit of the illegal  
was accused. of trying to organize  search, and the usc of these books  
New York juke box owners to  and records against him at his  
compel them to· pay tribute. The  trial requires that his conviction  
Nassau County district attorney's  be set aside."  
office had subpoenaed' books and  DeForte was released from  
records. The· union refused to ­ prison. The appeals court com­ 
·comply..State officials searched  mended Lekin for "the time and  
DeForte's office without a war­ skill which ·he devoted to this  
rant and seized records. The  appeal."  
·material was evidenced against  Commenting on the si.x to three  
DeForte. He was convicted and  opinion handed down in Wash­ 
.sentenced.  ington The Buffalo Evening News  
In 1966 while serving three to  predicted that Lekin's work would  
·five years in Attica prison De­ materially broaden the interpreta­ 
.Forte wrote in longhand an ap­ tion and application of the right­ 
:plication for a· writ of habeas  of-privacy clause of the Fourth  
:corpus.. DeForte contended his  Amendment.  
:ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER  37  

in the mechanical engineering department at Christian Brothers Cal., Charles Lavas is in the mechanical engineering department at Youngs· town U. and John Brenner is with Hughes Air· craft. 
.. James Haughton Department of Mechanical Engineering Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Department of Education 

The department keynotes growth as it begins a new academic year. In addition Ia several new faces among its students there are many new professors. Assist. prof. WILLIS BARTLETT will teach courses in the psychology of vaca· tiona( development. Other new assistant pro­lessors are RICHARD METZCUS school business management; Bro. Anthony (psora, administra· lion; and visiting assoc. prof. Vincent Lonnie, history of education. 
Leaving the department are Robert Strickler who is now president of Marymount Col., Sa· lina, Kan. and Donald Wehmeyer, head of the MAT and director of· the Extension Ser­vices, St. Michael Col., Yer. 
The religious education program has grawn tremendously since a year age. Many in· quiries concerning this concentration point to tremendous interest in NO's unique process ap· preach to religious instruction. , 
Father NEIL McCLUSKEY, SJ has just finished another book an "The Future of Catholic Education." 
Rt. Rev. Msgr. WILLIAM D. BORDERS has been elevated to the rank of bishop in Baton Rouge. He is the former pastor of St. Joseph Cathedral Parish and rector of the diocesan prep school. He was consecrated by Most Rev. Luigi Raimondi, Apostolic Delegate to the US. 
l 
Lt. DOMINIC ARCURI graduated from the US Army Command and General Staff Col. at Ft. Leavenworth, Kan. The college prepares selected officers for duty as commanders and general staff officers with the Army in the field and with Army logistical commands. 
NEAL Y. SINGLES has been named assist. superintendent of the Parchment School Dis· 
I trict near Kalamazoo, Mich. He is working
'· toward a specialist degree in administration I at Michigan State. ' Sister. ANNUNCIATA DOYLE SSJ recently
! celebrated her 89th birthday at Nazareth Col., Mich. She taught at Nazareth Academy for many years and was assigned leashing . and administrative posts in her travels as a teacher. Many of Sister's friends gathered lor the cele­bration. Lawrence M. Dena 529 Memorial Library Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Economics Departrr1ent 

Forecasters seldom bring up the predictions they miss. Nevertheless in economics an er· roneous prediction is by no means unusual; and past. author of this column, Prof. Dennis Dugan, has secured himself a. place among professional economists with a wayward pre· diction of his own. The 'present author feels it his duty to bring the reader's attention Ia Prof. Dugan's forecast that there would be no tax increase. Apparently Econometrician Dugan's model of the congressional mood was misspecified. ; 
Perhaps he would have ·had more luck using a purely theoretical model so beloved by us international economists, on the basis of which I predict a devaluation of the dollar before Prof. Dugan returns Ia author this column once again. 
A dept. grad., MIKE BRITT '63, has a more concrete involvement with· the inferno· lionel economy, Now stationed .in Manila, Mike administers ·caterpillar dealer· sales lor Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Okinawa, and the Philippines. 
JOSEPH MARTELLARO PhD '62. has moved from Indiana U., where he was an assoc. prof. and assist. chairman, to ·a lull professorship 
38 

at Northern Illinois U. Latest of Joe's publica· Chemical Society in September Vladimir Prelog lions is a book, The Argentine Economy, to be from Zurich, a Reilly lecturer at NO in 1950, published by Frederick Praeger in December. . received the coveted Roger Adams Award in New on the faculty this year is Alumnus organic chemistry. We had a large turnout FRANK JONES '61, an engineering science for the NO social hour there. Rare attendees grad turned economist who is receiving his included ART BAUM '39, with DuPont in Wil­PhD from Stanford. Also joining the dept. are mington these many years, and JOE ACKER­Frank Bonello, ci Mich. State PhD and Roger MAN '49 and his wile. Joe is with lnterchemi­Skurski, who is receiving his PhD from Wis. cal Corp., lives in Clifton, NJ and has two Professors Jones and Bonello give the dept. sons at NO. A number of NO grads who re­new depth in macro and monetary theory. and , ceived their PhDs elsewhere were present, in­Professor Skurski, a Soviet specialist, replaces cluding JOE CRIST '51, DON McMILLAN '63, visiting prof. Stan Swianiewicz, who has re­JOE MOHLENCAMP '62 and ED SCHILD­turned to Canada and continues ·to distinguish KNECHT '49, with Wallace & Tiernan in Cedar himself there both in the classroom and in the Knolls, NJ. I wangled a card from CHUCK 
are com·
councils of government. These three LYNCH Jr '60 who supervises applications re­
petenl young men whom the department is search and technical service for FMC in Balti­happy to have with us, although frankly we more. are more enthused about the live lovely ladies Elsewhere TOM BANIGAN Jr '45 is manager 
who have joined the ranks of our graduate of chemical research at the special products students. 
research center of Avery Products Corp., San James Rakowski Marino, Calif. HAROLD DEWHURST, a post­Assistant Professor 
doctoral fellow '52-54 has left GE in Sche· nectady to become manager of research for 

Department of Physics Owens Corning Fiberglass Corp., Granville, Implementation of the physics portion of the Ohio. Sr. MICHAEL SCHAFER SP '63, .back Science Development Program, supported jointly from Taiwan, heads the department of chem­by NSF and University funding, is proceeding istry at St. Mary-of-the-Woods Col. in Terre rapidly. Space renovation lor an expanded Haute, Ind. program in solid stale physics is nearing Bro. Columba Curran CSC completion, and installation of equipment has · .. Dept. of Chemistry begun. We should have a capability far cryo­Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 genic work at temperatures of 40K and below within the next couple of months. New ap· Sociology poinlmenls and new additions to the teaching ' A record 52 students, including 25 newcomers, and research faculty of the department for the were enrolled in the department at the outset '68-'69 academic year include Dr. Frank D. of the '68-69 academic year. For the lime . Feiock (visiting assist. prof.-statistical me-being at least, the enrollment figure belies the chanics), Dr. Kiron C. Gupta (postdoctoral re· ominous predictions of last spring when a search assoc.-elementary particle theory), Dr. change in Selective Service policy limited Jerome A. Helland (assoc. prof.-experimental graduate· deferments to students in material elementary particle physics), Dr. Philip B. John· and life services. Many experts were forecast-son (postdoctoral research assoc.-experimen· ing the decimation of graduate programs in tal elementary particle physics), Dr. Trevor J. the social sciences and humanities. There ·re· Lewis (postdoctoral research assoc.-experi· mains the likelihood, however, that a few of mental nuclear physics), Dr. John E. Mansfield the present complement of students will be (postdoctoral research assoc.-elementary par· called by· the draft in the months ahead. tide theory), Dr. Richard M. Prior (postdoc· The addition of four professors to the staff 'tore( research assoc.-experimental nuclear leaves the dep.artment's favorably low student· physics), Dr. A. Andre Rollefson (assist. prof.-faculty ratio relatively unchanged. Assoc. prof. experimental nuclear physics), Dr. Gerd Schill· Fabio DaSilva, a· U. of Fla.-trained demogra­ing (postdoctoral research assoc.-experimen· pher who was among our visiting scholars last tal nuclear spectroscopy), Dr. Paul E. Shanley year, is now a permanent member of the staff. (assist. prol.-nuclear theory), and Dr. Walter He has· been a key figure in the department's 
J. Tomasch (prof.-experimental solid state Latin American and Philippine population re-physics). The teaching and research faculty search. Assoc. prof. Clagett Smith, a social now totals 43. Our current graduate student psychologist with a Mich. doctorate, comes to enrollment is 83. us via the iJ! of Wis., bringing with him an 
ROBERT S. CODRINGTON '51 (high poly~ ongoing research· project on complex argo­mer physics) and wife Margaret live at 26815 nizations in medical facilities. Our first full-St. Francis Dr., -Los Altos Hills, Calif. 94022. time lay female prof., Dr. Joan Rytina, has They have one daughter, Catherine. After re-returned and is expected to remain at least ceiving his degree Bob went to Rutgers as an three more years if her husband, a research assist. research specialist in the physics dept. chemist, can stay put that long. Twice-weekly He left Rutgers in 1954 to join Schlumberger Prof. Rytina commutes from Grand Haven, Corp., and served as technical director of their Mich. to meet classes in the sociology of 
A.S.J. Div. In 1962 he joined Yerian Associates poverty and .complex organizations. Dr. An· and is currently director of engineering of drew Weigert, a U. of Minn. product, who Varian's Analytical Instrument Div. specializes in social psychology and the fern· 
JOSEPH A. THIE '51 (theoreticci! physics) and ily, joins us -with a vengeance of sorts. His wife Frances live at Rm. 5716, 300 N. State wile Kathleen, is one of our new graduate St., Chicago, Ill. 60610. They have no-children. students. From '52 to '53 Joe held a postdoctoral AEC " REV. ROBERT M. BROOKS, 0. Proem. (PhD Fellowship at Cornell. From '53 to '60 he was '59), current dept. chairman at St. Norbert's employed as a physicist at Argonne National Col;, has put together one of the liveliest and Lab. Since '60 Joe has been sell-employed· best-rounded . undergraduate sociology . pro· as a consultant on nuclear power plants. grams in· the midwest. ,RUDOLPH PRUDEN (MA 
Alumni of the early 1950's who have not yet '62) is a member of St.· Norbert's dept. For checked in include LOUIS V. HOLROYD '50, those who may have missed it, the December, Juo Chu Ho '51, Frank E. Jamerson (Jablon· 1967 issue of the American Sociological Re· ski) '52, and JOHN E. MacDONALD, '52. How view, the profession's most prestigious journal, about checking in·with up-Io-date information, contained an article by JAMES M. FENDRICH and helping me tidy up my records~ (MA '62). DJURO. YRGA (PhD '67) is recuper· 
R. L. Anthony cling from a series of ·delicate operations. We Assistant Chairman ask that you join us in wishing him a speedy Department of Physics .and complete recovery. 
Prof. Robert Vasoli Chemistry Sociology Dept. · At the Atlantic City meeting of the American · Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
u ~ 

Onlleco•·d------------~----------------------------------------------­
MARRIAGES 

Miss Elizabeth Cleary Stehlin to JIM GALLAGHER '29, Aug. 8. 
Miss Virginia De Voe and FRANK W. HONERKAMP JR '57 Aug. 17, Bayside, NY. 
Miss Janice Vaughn to RICHARD CHRISTEN '59, Aug. 3. 
Miss Wanda'Anne Garcia to JOE LANARA JR '64, June 15. 
Miss Elaine· Frances Cyr to HAROLD F. STAUNTON '65, Sept, 7, 
Hingham, Mass. 
· Miss Deirdre O'Meara to PAUL R. AHR '66, June 8. 
Miss Margaret Fryling to PETER RIEHM '66, Aug. 24. 

Miss Glenda Jean Rodney to PATRICK MICHAEL TEDFORD '66, Aug. 31.' 
Miss Mary Eiff to JOHN COYLE '67, Aug. 31. 

Miss Catherine Moran to JOHN L. ADAMS '68, July 20. 
Miss Valerie Passaglia to MIKE. BRESNAHAN '68, Aug. 4. 
Miss Susan Sample to JOHN DELEHANT '68, Aug. 6. 

Miss Barbara Houston to JIM FISHBURNE '68, June 15. 
Miss Susan Mahone cind Lt. JOHN KELLY '68, Sept. 14 at Quantico, Yo. 
Miss Karen Scherkenbach to JOHN O'BRIEN '68, July 6. 
Miss Helen "Rickert to GEORGE RESTOVICH '68, Aug. 3. 
Miss Joan Fraley to CHARLES "SKIP" SIMONS JR '68, Sept. 7. 
lyliss Mary Gleason to TOM WEYER '68, Oct. 5. 
Miss Linda Fordham -to· PAUL ZALESKY '68, Aug. 10. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL O'NEIL '50, a son, Liam Barry, Sept. 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. JIM DAVIS. '58, a son, George Bruce, April 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. BOB HASSENGER '59, a son, July 31. 

Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. WHALEY '59, a daughter, Mary Katharine, Aug. 30. / 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL B. BERETZ '60, a son, John Paul, Sept. I. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHUCK HARTMAN '63, a son, Jeffrey Charles, Aug. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. DONALD R. WEIDMAN '64, a daughter, Susan Marie, July 16. Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND F. BANKER JR '65, a son, Raymond Ill. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL NIEMEYER '66L, a son, Jonathan, July 23. Mr. and Mrs. RAY STARRMAN '66L, a daughter, Carolyn Patrice, Aug. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. DICK MUENCH '67, a daughter, Jean, August. 
ADOPTIONS 

Mr. and Mrs: PAUL FULLMER '55, son, David Clifford.
i 
I 
Mr. and Mrs. JERRY CONVERSE '60, a daughter, Polly Elizabeth, 
Sept. 10. 
DEATHS 

WILLIAM J. BLAKE '91. The· oldest" living member of the ND
I 
Alumni Assoc. died Sept. 4 at the age of 97. He served twice as 
city manager of Newburgh and was city engineer for terms span· 
ning half a century. In '53 he was named "Man of the Year" by
I 
the Mid-Hudson Valley ND Club. He is survived by a daughter, 
Mrs. Joseph Gaynor, a son, William of Dallas, two nephews and 
six grandchildren. 

. ORMED• W. CREPEAU '99, Sept. 22. The oldest ND Alumnus in the Ohio area .is survived by his widow Frances and four nieces. 
CARL S. ·AYERS '09, Sept. 26. Carl, outstanding for his work in the Masons, is survived by a son C. Stanford Ayers Jr and a grand-daughter Heather Ayers. 
JOHN H. O'DONNELL '_15, May 9. John was a former stole assem· blymon of California, speaker pro-tem of the lower house ar.d superior court judge. He is survived by his widow Mollie and daughter Agnes Lederer. 
THOMAS D. MOTT JR '18, ·'24L. He is survived by his widow Dorothy, 511 Sumner Ave. Spokane, Washington. JOSEPH C. MEERSMAN '21, June 15. He is survived by his widow, 2621 11 Ave., Moline, Ill. JOHN J. HUETHER '22, Jan: 22. He is survived by his widow Alice of 2488 Hilltop Rd. Schenectady 12309 and a son RICHARD JOHN '55. 
RICHARD J•. NASH '23, Oct. 9. He was past honorary president of the Alumni Assoc. and a member of the ND Board of Governors. He is sur· vived by his widow Elizabeth of 2519 Greenleaf Ave. Wilmette; a dough· fer Belly Nash and a son, John R; 
JOHN T. CORCORAN '25, Sept. 10. He is survived b"y his. widow Madeline, 730 William St., Bridgeport, Conn. 06608. 
Sr. MARY OF THE INCARNATION BYRNE '26. 
ALFRED A DUFFY '27, September. 

BERNARD J. ABROTT' '27, Sept. 9. He is survived by his widow-Mar· go ret and· daughters Mrs. Thomas Brady and Mrs. Paul Merz. 
CLAYTON ·G. LEROUX '27, Sept. 28. A lawyer _with the Federal Avia­tion Agency, he was the first recipient of the Cleveland ND Man of the Year Award. He is survived by his wile Marguerite, 4309 Virginia Dr., Fairview Park, Ohio 44126, two daughters and a son. 
Sr. M. PETRONILLA RITTER COP '27. JOHN W. EGAN '28, Aug. 24. His widow resides at 42 Brook St. Wellesley, Mass. WILLARD F. BRIEN '29, Aug. 17•. He is .survived by his widow Kalh· 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
erine, four sons and two daughters. 
HENRY L. BURNS SR '29, Sept. 21. Sales manager of the Warder Paper Box Corp. in Niagara Falls,· he was named ND Man of the Year in 1967. He is survived by his widow Ruth, 160 Deerhurst Park Blvd., Kenmore, NY 14217, one daughter and three sons. 
JOHN H. CUSHMAN '29, Nov. 20, 1967. He is survived by his widow Betty, 415 Wakewa Ave. South Bend 46617. FRANK P. KANE '29, August 13. He is survived by his widow Catherine, son, Frank Paul Jr, and daughters, Katherine and Mrs. Emil Spehar. JOHN J. MAHONEY '29, Aug. 24. He is survived by his widow Anne, 8044 S. Yates Ave., Chicago 60017 and a son JOHN J. Jr '54. GILMORE A. SALMON '29, Apr. 20. He is survived by his widow Kathryn,· 2256 Cardinal Place, St. Paul, Minn. 
FRANK H. MILLER Jr. '32, Sept. 13. Frank died after an extended illness. He is survived by his widow Eugenie, a san, Peter and mother Mrs. Frank Miller Sr. 
Col. REMI 0. RENIER '32, Aug. 29. Cal. Renier was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal posthumously for his work in construction of aerospace facilities. He is survived by his widow Viola, Apt. 52, Stone· ham, Mass. 02180. _ 
RICHARD H. SHIELS '33, July 17. He is survived by his widow Marge and eleven children. Mother and eight children reside at 1301 W. 8th St. Cincinnati, Ohio 45203. 
WILLIAM L. "DIXIE" WOLF JR '34, August. WILLIAM E. FLANNERY '36, Aug. 16. He is survived by his widow Muriel, 9 Nassau Blvd. Garden City, NY 11530. WILLIAM LYNCH '37, Sept. 7. He is survived by his widow who re­sides at 7667 S. Shore Dr. Chicago 60649. 
CLIFFORD MIHM '37, August. 
ROBERT P. LEONARD '38, Sept. 5. He is survived by his widow Beverly and three children. JOSEPH J. McDONOUGH '40, Sept. 19. He is survived by his widow Virginia, sons, Joseph and John and daughters, Mary Grace and Virginia. 
J. QUENTIN MARSHALL '42, July 31. His family resides at 8531 Holmes, Kansas City, Mo. 64131. OLEN L. PARKS '42, Sept. 15. The "Mr. Tennis" of Chicago died from a heart attack. He is survived by his widow Gwen and three children. JAMES W. SCHAEFFER '45, May 28. He is survived by his widow 
Leona and sons who reside at 333 East Church St., Elmhurst, Ill. 60126. 
Rt. Rev. V. A. SCHROEGER '45. 
JOHN A. O'NEILL '51, Sept. 13. He is survived by his widow Renee and five children, 1800 Clover Rd. Northbrook, Ill. 60062. 
WILLIAM W. WIEDEMANN JR '58, Sept. 8, Toledo, Ohio. Assistant to the vice-pres. of Libbey-Owens-Ford, he was a victim of Hodgkin's disease. He was a member of the ND Club of Toledo. He is survived by his wife Nancy and a son,. 2633 Tully Dr., Toledo 43614. 
THOMAS J. McDONALD '59, Sept. 7. He was killed in a boating accident in Lake Michigan. 
Dr. EUGENE M. VAICHULIS '59, Feb. 15. Eugene, a lt. in the Navy Medical Corps was killed in Southeast Asia. He is survived by his mother and father JOHN '29, 10455 S. Wabash Ave. Chicago. 
CHARLES J. McGONIGAL '65, Sept. 11. Charles was killed in an auto accident. He is survived by his widow Mcry, daughter Megan and his parents. 
MICHAEL G. HARLAN '66, May 9. JOHN MOORE '66, Dec. 17. He is survived by his father, Lloyd Moore, 1095 W. Highland, Hermiston, Oregon 97838. 
MICHAEL ROBERSON '68, Aug. 3. Michael left school in April for health reasons and died of cancer. His parents reside at General Deliv· ery, Waveland, Miss. 39576. 
SYMPATHY 
PAUL I. FENLON '18 on the death of his sister Mercedes. 
JOHN T. BALFE '20 on the death of his wile Ann. 
DAVE SMITH '28 on the death of his sister. 
Dr. JOHN A. VAICHULIS '29 on the death of" his son Dr. EUGENE M. VAICHULIS '59. 
RAYMOND A. GEIGER '32 on the death of his mother Oct. 1. 
FRANK HOCHREITER '35 on the death of his. daughterr, Judy, April 17. 
THOMAS LEONARD '35 on the death of his brother, ROBERT P. 
LEONARD '38. . 
ROBERT E. SULLIVAN '40 on the death of his son David in Vietnam. 
WILLIAM HICKEY '42 on the death of his mother. 
JOHN F. HEAGNEY '44 on the death of his wife. 
JOHN H. HARRINGTON '50 on the death of his mother in September. 
JOHN J. MAHONEY Jr '54 on the death of his father, JOHN J. MAHONEY '29. 
JOSEPH P. BURNS :'58 on the death of his father, HENRY L,' BURNS SR '29 Sept. 21. . . 
BERNARD o; DIERKS '59 on th~ death Of his mother. 
WILLIAM W. ROBI '59 on the .death of· his mother, Sept. 9. 
HENRY L. BURNS JR '62 on the. death of his faiher, HENRY L. BURNS SR '29 Sept. 21. -· ' 
PHER DIERKS '62 on the death ~I his mother. 
PAUL DRISCOLL '63 on the death olhis father. 
ROGER L. MALCC:iLM '64 on the death of his father. 
JOSEPH P. MANZELLI JR '64\ on .the death of his father July 25.­

.. 

tual league champions, Pillsfleld-Berkshire Red ,. preparing to leave on a two week lour with gathered for the rosary of the Mahan-Murphy 
Sox,' and the Elmira, NY Pioneers. Sale of the Bar Assoc. to Tokyo and Hong Kong. funeral home. 
tickets by Club members resulted in the raising of a $150 scholarship for a local NO student. The scholarship was awarded Ia John W. Schermerhorn of Pillsfleld, Moss. John is a . junior. mathematics major ranking in the lop 
· 10 percent of his class. 
The Club noted with sorrow the recent pass­ing of its chaplain, Rev. Thomas Finn. Father Finn was pastor of St. Mark's Church, Pills· field. 
-Peter M. Maloney '62 Secretary-Treasurer 
BOSTON 

The Club publicly 'honored the Boston Patriots' perennial all league middle lineback NICK BUONICONTI '62 .at the Philadelphia Eagles· Patriots game at Harvard Stadium Sept. 2. Proceeds for this fourth annual charily game went to the Ecumenical Charities of Cardinal 
f. Cushing, 
Club Pres. RICHARD MURPHY '58 presented a plaque to Nick which highlighted his ac­complishments with the Patriots and his recent graduation from Suffolk low School. After the game, 150 Club members and friends of Nick's offended a reception in his honor at the Harvard Dill~n Field House. The recep· 
lion was sponsored jointly by the Patriots and the NO Club of Boston. BOB MARR '58 was chairman of the day's festivities and was ably assisted by JACK KARlE MA'56. 
NEll FOWlER '47 was chairman of the annual Freshman Send-off Dinner at the Navy Officers Club in Boston Sept. 10. The speakers for the evening, all students of the University, were John Blute, member of the Honor Council; Mike Pepek, president of New England Club; and John Mroz, Student Union academic com­missioner. Mroz, of Osterville, Mass., achieved national recognition as chairman of the Sophomore literary Festival at NO last spring. 
Representing the· Club at the dinner were Dick Murphy; TOM WElCH '57, trees.; Bill PIETRUSIAK '58, sec.; TOM KINNEAlEY '39; JACK LAMERE '49; Jack Karle; and Chairman Fowler. 
The next two events for the Club will be the NO Night at Suffolk Downs Nov. 15 and the annual NO Communion Breakfast Dec. 8. 
-Bill Pietrusiak '58, Secretary 
BUFFALO :======:====::=::: 

Early in September vie welcomed 16 area freshmen"• dnd their parents at a meeting at­tracting abpul 90 people. Chairman of this very successful ·event was financial secretary BILL O'CONNER '64, who was assisted by Jack McMahon.. In addition to the showing of "The 1967 NO Football. Highlights," ·there were informal folks given by some of the current upperclassmen. The Alum-Wives, led by Pres. Sue Walkowiak, served refreshments. 
Oct. 4 we held a most unusual "Mystery Ride." The group mel to bus it to a pre· viously unknown . destination. At the "sur­prise" local restaurant we enjoyed a fine meal in luxurious surroundings. The pleasurable evening was due to the work of chairman Dan Walkowiak and co-chairman Howard Augustine. 
The next event we are planning is a night of music. We are joining forces with the Alum-Wives to sponsor a night at a Buffalo Philharmonic Concert. 
-Robert A. Drajem '64, Secretary 
BURLINGTON·:======:====: 

The Club held its annual fall meeting aboard the boat of Marianna and VERN BRINCK '48. The group traveled up · the Mississippi to Oquaka to eat at a restaurant there. Allend· ing the outing were lucy and HAROlD RilEY, Dorothy and ED RilEY, Mary Kay and GENE · RilEY, Marilyn and .JIM PEARRE and Fr. ART PERRY. Th'e group gave a farewell fool on the river to Dorothy and JACK DAllEY who were 
AlUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER -Rev. Arthur Perry, Secretary 
CENTRAL JERSEY 

Twenty-one new freshmen showed up of the 
Club's Freshman Reception in late August. 
Giving them their first glimpse at the Uni· 
versify as well as answering many of their 
questions were Pres. HOWARD GillESPIE, 
Bill DEGNEN Sr and Jr, JIM HARBISON, 
RICH DERNBACH and DAN GRACE, among 
others. This was one of our best turnouts. 
The NO-Navy game in Philadelphia Nov. 2 
will find over 500 staunch followers of the 
Irish from Central New Jersey, led ably by 
DAVE GIBBONS, yelling their lungs· out in the 
stands. We're busing and lunching down to 
Philadelphia and, I om sure, celebrating all 
the way bock. 
Quite a treat is planned by FRANK DOOlEY for our December Communion Breakfast. He has arranged for Msgr. Carey from Queen of Angels Parish in Newark to say the Mass and to address the members on the problems of the inner-city in Newark and the role of the Church · in solving those problems. II should be quite a morning. 
-David E. Collins, Secretary 
CHICAGO 

It looks like another busy fall for the Club starting with one of the biggest events, the annual Rockne Dinner Dec. 9, at the Sherman House. Bill ROEMER, chairman, has obtained FRANK GIFFORD as looslmosler and, as usual, past and present coaches and players from the University will be in allendance. The Club's annual Special Award will be, presented to J. Walter Kennedy, Commissioner of the National Basketball Assoc. Another award will go posthumously to Moon Mullins who recently passed away, 
Dec. 20 a Christmas party will be held at the Germanic Club and the banjo band from the Red Garter will provide the entertain· menl. A feature of the party will be the last of the 15c beers. TOM CONOSCENTI is acting as chairman of the affair. 
-Thomas F. Carey '55, Secretary 
CLEVELAND =:::::=====:==::==:: 

We started out with a slog social June 24 at our president's house. VICTOR GUlYASSY hosted an old-fashioned beer party at his resi· dence which faces Oakwood Country Club. lEO BURBY '42 and BOB DOWD '41 brought their clubs with them and got in some prac­tice while we carried on. 
A number Of veteran Cedar Point goers made the big trip to the Sandusky area again this year July 12-14. BOB LAllY '50 brought his family of 15 with him and look over the whole second floor of the Breakers Hotel. late Sunday beach slayers included the families of JACK DOYLE '42, RICHARD VanAUKEN '57 and FRED NAEGElE '48. 
Our next event was the family picnic July 28 at Gilmour Academy. Chairman DENNIS BUTLER '63 really put together a line program here that allrocted some 75 families including 250 children. We all got in some swimming, boll playing, egg throwing and underwater polo. Chairman Butler procured a local board of education director to conduct all the games. The families of RICHARD MillER '55 and FRED FRIEND '50 captured most of th.e prizes. Hats· off to Chairman Butler and his Co-Chair­man JAY WilBUR for a most enjoyable event. 
Aug. 17 our esteemed Vice-Pres. THOMAS CORRIGAN '57 and his wife Peggy hosted a mixed social of their residence in Westlake and as many as 150 people offended the gala event. Our annual Golf Party was held Sept. 
19. About 200 members offended and Chairman THOMAS O'DONNEll '58 sow to if that almost all 200 of us walked off with a prize. 
One of our most actove brothers, Clayton 
G. Leroux '27, died Sept. 28. Our Club 
-Patrick J. Cannon, Secretary 

====:::= COLORADO SPRINGS == 
The Club recently held a barbecue of the 
home of JOE REICH Jr. Guests of honor were 
freshmen from the Colorado Springs area and 
their parents. Among those offending were 
Jane and RAY BUBICK '54, TOM DONOVAN 
'56 and the GEORGE GAUTHIER$ '62. 
Plans are being mode for a club "meeting" 
to be held during the Michiagn Stale game. 
-Michael D. Cifelli '64, Secretary-Treasurer
=== CONNECTICUT VALLEY === 
A backyard barbecue was given in honor of 
the freshmen from the area. The affair was 
held at the home of FRANK LANE '54, the 
club president. The new NO men and their 
dads helped a handful of Alumni down 'burg· 
ers and quaff coke or beer. The informal 
formal was very successful. The only sad 
note was the disappointing Alumni turnout. 
Two thirds of the new students and their dads 
were there but only 11 of the 260 regular 
members were able to support the function. 
lack of interest has been furthur demon· 
strafed by a disheartening response to a 
recent request for dues. Only 27 of our 
regular members core enough to be active. 
A Membership Commillee, chaired by JIM 
GRIFFIN '60, has been appointed to assess 
the lock of response and to attempt to enlarge 
the rolls to at least workable proportions. 
The Events Committee, chaired by PAUL SANNER '62, has planned a smoker for the third week of November and a Communion Supper, Dec. 8. Details will be forthcoming. All of the plans hove been made in anticipa· lion of a small attendance. let's hope that the' pessimism is unfounded. 
-John McGuire '62, Secretary 

=:::::==:::::==:::::===: DAYTON =:::::=====:====:=: 
The word is out. John Mroz '70 is coming to Dayton to speak at the first Communion Dinner Nov. 29. Since this is the day after Thanksgiving, we should be able to hove a good representation from the students, Alumni and friends of NO. This marks the first time that a student from the University has spoken at a major Alumni function here in Dayton. But John Mroz doesn't exactly come without portfolio. He is the guy who pooled $2.72 into a $20,000 student production, the Sophomore literary Festival. Needless to soy, this feat won John Mroz and NO notional publicity in the Saturday Review and other magazines. 
SUMMA is coming to Dayton. Ron Henne got a call from BRIAN REAGAN Oct. 2. Brion hod lunch with some of the officers of the Dayton Club Oct. 10. The kickoff will be in February. We'll all hove to work on this one. "When the going gels Iough, the Iough • , ." 
-Lt. Mike Mathis, Secretary 

==::===::==::=:=::: DEARB 0 RN ==::==::==::==::==::==:: 
New officers elected to two-year terms are RAY DeFAUW '47, pres.; lARRY BEAUPRE '63, vice-pres. and lreos; PETE PRICE '63, sec. Elected to three-year terms to the Boord of Directors were . DON MUllANEY, GEORGE BAll '49, Bill DeCRICK '53. 
Annual Stag Night was May 28 of Dearborn Town House and was attended by 108 members and guests. NO line Coach Joe Yonto was guest speaker and showed filfl'!S of '67 high· lights. JOE BYRNE and FRANK SHERIDAN were co-chairmen. 
The summer social outing was of the Mead­owbrook Music Festival in August where we wined and dined and watched the American Ballet Theatre. 
The September meeting was of the home of JERRY GASS, '48. A dialogue wcis held with two NO seniors and a '68 grad on recent changes in student power, classes with St. Mary's, etc. 
-R. P. Pete Price '63, Secretary 
DETROIT 

"Sock it to 'em Fling ond Cling," wos the theme for Detroit's. annual Football kick-off party Sept. 9 ot the Botsford Inn. Tiger Fever look a bock seal this evening when Col. Jack Stevens, NO assistant athletic director, brought us up to dote on this year's football prospects. Van Petrick of the Mutuel Sports Network provided the 250 in attendance with many interesting insights into sports broadcasting. The overall prognosis: start pocking your lunches for the tailgate parties. 
Another event was a post MSU Victory Party Oct. 26 at the Botsford Inn. Prime rib dinners with an orchestra providing dance music were the perfect conclusion for the MSU game. 
Nov. 27, the Wednesday before Thanks­giving, the Detroit Club is sponsoring a concert by the NO Glee Club ot the Mercy Col. Auditorium. 
Dec. 8 is the tentative date for the Club's annual Holiday Communion Breakfast. As the schedule indicates, another enjoyable Fall season is ahead for Detroit Alumni. 
-Gary W. Dillon '65 
=.::=;;=====:FAIRFIELD COUNTY __ ~ CONNECTICUT = 
There has been a recent change in the officers of the Club. The new President is DENNIS 
J. P. O'NEill JR '51. His address is 8 Cove­wood Dr., Rowayton, Conn. 
August 24 the Club sponsored a Freshman Send-Off at the Red Coach in Darien. Fourteen current freshmen and their parents from throughout Conn. attended. JIM GIBBONS did an excellent job of representing student life and university policy. 
Denny O'Neill was installed as president with lARRY MURCHAN '66 vice-pres. and GEORGE H. BURNS '48 trees., and the under· signed as the new secretary. 
At a recent Board of Governor's meeting the raffle for on all expense paid trip to South Bend for the Georgia Tech Game was started and the club bus trip to the Navy game was finalized. Also scheduled is a club communion breakfast in the Holy Protection Monastery on Ponus ·Ridge Rd., New Canaan for Dec. 8. 
-G. Sarsfield Ford '55, Secretory 
GREATER MIAMI 

Our Club enjoyed a summer season al activities that was concluded by our fine An­nual Father/Son Night. 
July 25 we spent a spirited evening watching the Miami Marlins defeat the lakeland Tigers after a pre-game picnic in the Stadium Club­house. Among those attending with their families were DICK MORAN, Bill MAY, CHET SADOWSKI, PAT SHEll, PAT O'MAllEY, GEORGE HERO, GENE KUBICKI, TOM HIG· GINS, JIM SMITH, GEORGE lEPPIG, I. I. PROBST and BOB REillY. 
The Annual Family Picnic at the Crandon Pork Cabanas on Key Biscayne was a real success judging from the way the Alumni, families and friends (over 100 persons) con­sumed the soft drinks, beer, ribs and chicken. The softball game stretched to only three innings as the heot of the day got to the star players such as TOM CARROll, JIM SWEENY, DON MURRAY, lARRY BUCKLEY, HENRY KEEl, GEORGE KENNARD, ED KIRCHMIER and CHARLIE MAHER. Meanwhile back on the beach we were pleased to visit with RAY POPP, Dr. Bill.. WELCH, CHARLES CASHMAN and Mrs. CHARLIE CAllAHAN. 
.Sept. 9 EDWARD B. MillER _'21 passed away. He was one of· the most enthusiastic supporters of Notre· Dame and our local Alumni group. His encouragement and active participation in Club activities will be missed by all Alumni. 
-L. Nick Muelhaupt '52, Club Secretory 
::=:::======:==: INDIANAPOLIS A picnic was held at the home of JIM WELCH . far the benefit of the freshmen attending the University this year from the Indianapolis area. John Quinn, president of the Indianapolis Club at NO, was master of ceremonies and BOB KANE and PAT FISHER provided some comments and worthwhile guidelines. _.Some of the current procedures and programs on Campus were explained by the upperclassmen in attendance. Football preview and recap luncheons are being held each Friday at 11:45 am at the Victorian Room in the Riley Center under the chairmanship of BOB KESSING. Attendance has been excellent. -Joseph A. Naughton Jr, Secretory 
=====:=====:::= JERSEY S H 0 RE ::=:::=::=:::==: The first NO Information Night was conducted by Bro. RAPHAEl WILSON, director of admis· sions and scholarships at the University, in connection with the Club's annual Freshman Send Off Sept. 5 at Christian Brothers Acad­emy in lincroft. Refreshments were served by BOB GIUNCO '57. General chairmen lor the program were Pres. DICK CORDASCO '50 and Vice-Pres. DICK BYRNE '52. Members are urged·to set aside the date of Dec. 8 for the Club's annual Communion Breakfast. Details will be provided soon in a letter to all members. 
-Charlie Keller '54, Secretary 
==========LANSING 

Officers for '68-'69 were recently announced. 
'They are DAVE O'lEARY '53, pres.i FRANK SIERAWSKI '48, vice-pres.; PETER HASBROOK '60, sec.; MIKE BYRNE '62, trees. They will be assisted in their duties by the Board of Direc· tors: Bill DOTTERWEICH '58, DR. PAT NAK­FOOR '56, Bill KANE '54, DICK AlFES '55, and CLEM McFARLAND '34.. 
The new administration -got the year off to a great start by announcing a program of bi­monthly gatherings ranging · from picnics to Communion breakfasts. The big event of this year was held Oct. 25 at the Jack Tor Hotel in lansing. It was the Bi-Annual ND-MSU Pre­Game party. At press time upwards of 500 guests were expected to warm up the greater lansing area for the IRISH Gridders. 
-Peter Hasbrook, Secretary, 
LOS ANGELES 

DENNY TROESTER '57, ND Foundation director, is now entrenched in the West and can be reached at 627-9312, the Foundation Club Office. The TV Football Party was Oct. 26 for the Michigan State Game and Commodore TOM CREHAN was in charge of the cruise and cocktail party Oct. 12. At press time plans were in the works for Club trip to the Nov. 25 toping of the Nov•. 27 Bob Hope Show. 
:=::=:=::=:=::=:=::= MAINE :=::=:=::=:=::=:=::= 
The Association hod its annual formal meeting 
Sept. 11 at Mario's Restaurant in lewiston. 
Attending were JOSEPH D. DOYLE '42, RAY 
LEMAIRE '50, JOHN BELIVEAU '59, J•. PAUL 
SCULLY '41, JESS F. DelOIS '42, TONY SILVA 
'56, NORMAN TREMBLAY '41, YIN AllEN '67 
and RONALD DeCOTEAU '37 and RAY GEIGER 
'32. 

The present slate of officers was re-elected 
to serve for one more year. It is: Jess F. 
Delois '42, pres.; Joseph D. Doyle '42, vice­
pres.; John B. Beliveau '59, lreos.; and Ray 
Geiger '32, perennial secretory. 

Wives and children were invited as well as 
some special guests and John Bennett, sopho· 
more at ND, ·was in attendance, although 
there were no new freshmen from Moine going 
to the University this year. 

The conviviality of the evening was excellent 
and pictures of the 1967 football games were 
shown. 

· -Roy Geiger '32, Secretary· 
::=:::==::::=====: MILWAUKEE ::=:::==:::=====: In the Blue Ribbon Hall at the Pobst Brewing Company, our pre-season football-basketball smoker was held. .. Guest speaker of the event was JAY MillER '65, former captain and three-year regular. Joy showed us a film of the 1967 National Basket­boll Assoc. Highlights and answered questions about the NBA and his new team, the Mil­waukee Bucks. Also, on the film program was the "1967 ND Football Highlights." Amid the beer and pretzels, Pres. JOE MESEC reviewed his recent trip to the Golden Dome and announced plans for our Com­munion Sunday Breakfast and bus trips for the October home games. 
-Bill Lodge '57, Secretary 
NASHVILLE, TENN. == 
Our general membership rolls number 52 ot 
present and we are growing slowly. Our Club 
covers the rt)etropoliton area of Nashville plus 
the surrounding cities of Clarksville, Franklin, 
lebanon,_ Murfreesboro and Gallatin. Our poll­
ing power canvasses on area population ,of 
approximately 600,000 people and yet we con 
only claim approximately 40 Alumni. 
In order to stimulate a more active Club, we hove· swung our membership doors open to friends of the University 'who hove active par­ticipation save holding office. We feel this drive will benefit' the life line of the Club and nurture a solid growth in Club activities. 
-Paul Heer, Closs of 1957 
==== NEW YORK CITY 
Archbishop Terence Cooke will receive the Club's first Pacem in Terris award and be the principal speaker at a Club dinner Dec. 10. 
ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE, MIKE DeCICCO and JOHNNY DEE gave a Iorge group of Alumni and their. guests a preview of the South Bend athletic picture at the Kickoff Smoker at the Waldorf Astoria Sept. 18. SKIP DAVIDSON '64 acted as chairman with the able assistance af Bill FALLON '37, JIM SlATTERY '50, and Bill Stein of the Touchdown Club. Sportscaster DON CRIQUI '62 introduced many of the guests including John Mecom, owner of the New Orleans Saints, and Weeb Eubank of the Jets. 
The Science and· Engineering Group recently elected Fronk Sowa pres.; Bill HUISKING '34, vice,pres;; DEON SUTTON '31, sec.; and ROGER O'REillY '48, treasurer. Oct. 5 the Science and Engineering Group sponsored a seminar on the revolutionary gliding para­chute known as· a Para-foil designed and de­veloped by the ND aerospace dept. Speakers included Dr. John Nicolaides, chairman of the deportment; Dean Joseph Hogan of the Col­lege of Engineering; and Dean Bernard Wold­man of the College of Science. 
-Fronk Reidy '55, Secretary 
::=::=::=::=::=::= PEORIA, ILL. The annual back to school dinner was held Sept. 12 at Vonachen's Junction (PETE VONA­CHEN '47). Among the 32 who enjoyed a stimulating and ·provocative talk given by Art Holst, an active official in the Notional Foot­boll league, were five· students and their parents along with 'Mrs. W. L Best. Mrs. Best was recognized by the chairman (DENNY POWERS '56) for· her recent support of the 'Summa' campaign. ERIC WARD '60 was pre­sented the Lt. James E. Cassidy 'Memorial Award for Academic Excellence in the post year. Eric is the second son of Dr. and Mrs. Edward Word Ia receive the Cassidy Award. -Paul F. Coosh '56, Secretory 
=======PHILADELPHIA===:::=::=::=::= 
In early September the Club held its annual "Back to School Night." This is an occasion when the incoming freshmen and their par­ents gel a chance to meet the uppe~ clossmen and Alumni. About 60 freshmen were in at· tendonce along with parents and friends. A 
. ALUMNU~ OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
.. 
""'

dance immediately fallowed brief welcoming ceremonies. ''BUD'' McGONIGAL and TOM TWARDOWSKI were co-chairmen of this very fine evening, ' 
-Thomas 1. Shallow '63, Secretary 

:=::=====:==:ROCHESTER, N.Y. 
Fourteen freshmen, with over 40 friends and relatives, attended this year's Freshmen Orien· lotion and had only praise lor Chairman JOHN W. GLAVIN for the outstanding pro· gram on the intricacies of college life. 
The most important lund raising event of the year, the Raffle, is headed by cochairman TOM HARTZEll and BOB DEWEY. The money raised goes toward scholarships. 
JERRY CURRAN, reports the club trust, the NO Club of Rochester Scholarship Foundation, has been approved by the IRS. Three members as trustees of the scholarship lund will be ap· pointed by the Board of Directors. · 
-Thomas E. Peterson '63, Secretary 

==========ROME============ 
Our NO hospitality center is at your service daily from noon to nine at 82 largo Bran· caccio, Tel: 730.002, near central rail-air ter· minal. · 
-Vince McAloon '34, Secretary 
RHODE ISLAND AND __ 
S.E. MASSACHUSETTS = 

The new officers are PETER J. SUTHERLAND '55, pres.; GEORGE B. HESS '56, vice-pres.; BERNARD A. McMAHON '65, sec.; and JAMES CONLON JR. '65, treas. 
-Peter J. Sutherland, President :=:=:=::=:=::== ST. LOUIS====:====:====:==: The Georgia Tech-NO game has been se· 
lected lor the club sponsored football weekend Nay. 15, 16, and 17. JOE McGLYNN '55, chairman, has cpartered a plane and it prom· 
ises to be one of the best trips ever. Dec. 14 St. louis U. and NO will meet in basketball and _our holiday event will be planned around this game. 
-Richard F. Ash '54, Secretary 

==:ST. PETERSBURG-TAMPA==: 
Sept. 5 the Club had a send-off lor the fresh· men entering NO from the Florida west coast. 
The reception was attended by 52 members including the following freshmen: Frank Mas· sari and ~Stephen Azzarelli, Tampa; William 
. Nowak, Michael T. Reilly and R. V. Ridenour Jr, St. Pc;\ersburg; and Elbert S. Brown Jr, Sarasota. 
Election of officers lor the coming year was also held with these results: ROY J. DEEB '50, 
• pres.; EUGENE BITTNER '50, vice-pres.; GEORGE GUIDA '63, secretary-trees. 
Deeb gave a report on the Alumni S~nate meeting at the University earlier in the year and plans were made for implementing the Alumni organization's suggestions lor the com· ing year, starting with ·an admissions commit· 
! 
iee. 
-Ray J. Deeb '50, President 

=====ST. J?~~~~N~A~LEY ===== 
Coming up Dec. 5 will be the 49th Annual Testimonial Football Banquet._ For the first time this event will be in the Athletic and Convoca~ lion' Center in ·which we will be able to ac· commodate 1600 lor dinner. The toastmaster this year is Joe Garagiola. Another first will be the admission of students lor the program free of charge. The banquet once again will be $10 per ticket with Norm Cooke serving as ticket chairman. A pre-banquet cocktail party will be at the Center far Continuing Education. BOB WILLIAMS, TOM SHEEHAN and TOM HAMMER will handle this event. The general chairman this year is yours truly with a great deal of help from Club Pres. BILL FARABAUGH. Far ticket information 'write to P.O. Box 111, South Bend, Indiana 46624. 
..::. Bill Killilea '60, Secretary 
SAN DIEGO, CALIF. ­

The Club's annual steak fry and student send 
off was hosted this year Sept. 7 by Mr. and 
Mrs. DON YECKEL '55 and resulted in an 
excellent turnout of mare than 40 members 
and wives, as well as three area NO students 
(junior Mike O'Brien, freshman Tam Lehan and 
1968 graduate Chris Berry). In addition 
DENNY TROESTER '57, the NO Foundation's 
West Coast Representative, attended an be­
hall of the University. Many thanks to the 
Yeckels far offering the facilities of their home 
far this enjoyable get-iagether. 
On the football scene, the Club has awarded to University HS of San Diego the NO trophy which annually goes to the winner of the St. Augustine-University HS football game. Uni· versify captured the trophy with a 13-7 win aver its arch rival. St. Augustine took the game and trophy in 1967, following a Uni­versity win in 1966. 
-Classen Gramm '63L, Corresponding Secretary 

. TERRE HAUTE, IND. === 
Members of the Club were in the stadium to cheer as NO won over Northwestern. MIKE KEARNS and MYRON BUSBY JR were co· chairmen for , this big event. Pres. JOHN CHRISTMAN, in compliance with the Univer­sity, has set up a recruiting committee con­sisting of JIM SULLIVAN '57l, MIKE KEARNS '60 and John as chairmen of the group. Two new members are now in the Club, DENNEY PENNEY '61 and JOHN HUGHES '65. 
-Jim Bayer, Publicity Chairman 

::::=:::====:==: TRI-CITIES, IOWA ===:===: A big social event lor the Club wos the pep rally in Davenport the night before the Iowa game. A large crowd was an hand as toast­master JOHN LUJACK deftly handed off and at times passed to speakers BOB McBRIDE, ELMER LAYDEN, JOHN O'DONNEll and DICK LAMB, none of whom fumbled the ball. In August BERNARD "'JERRY'' HANK jumped into the saddle and look over the reins ·as president of the Club when GENE GERWE left for Pasadena and a position with Cal Tech. -Carl Liebscher, Secretary 
====:====:====:TRIPLE CITIES NEW YORK 
An enthusiastic Send Off party was held for incoming freshmen and their lathers Sept. 4 at Catholic Central HS of Binghamton. Co-Chair­mim TOM BENEDICT and DICK HANAFIN ar­ranged the program that included local guitar­ist Joe lzen, '"'67 Football Highlights,"' brief remarks by "'Fritz"' Haines, a senior, FRANK 
M. LINEHAN, Club pres., and a buffet. 
The Club's lund drive was conducted during the summer months and again was successful. The prize was two Purdue tickets plus ex­penses. 
Earlier this summer the Club officers had an informative and successful meeting with Alumni Honorary Pres. A. F. "'BUD"' DUDLEY. 
-F. M. Linehan, Secretary 

====:====::======:TULSA 
Prior to the Sept. 21 Fighting Irish vs. Big Red football clash, the NO Club of Tulsa scheduled on authentic type NO style pep rally which was· held at The Cup Club, Sept. 14. This was a real unsophisticated pep rally, and included a buffet dinner and special condi­ments which really got the rally "'swinging."' 
The scene of th-e Big Red vs. Fighting Irish football game was attended by some 120 fanatical O.U. and rabid NO Alumni from Tulsa. The energetic DAVE THORNTON (NO Low '53) chartered a 707 "'champagne flight"' to Chicago's O'Hare field. Buses then took the fans to the Drake Hotel lor Friday evening and Ia the NO Campus on Saturday. Some 159 O.U. ond NO Alumni attended a porty given by BOBBY SIEGFRIED (NO '37) in the Morris Inn before the gome. Aller the game, the downtrodden O.U. Ions and the spirited Irish Alumni rode the buses back to the Drake Hotel where the O.U. fans indulged in a weeping and wailing party. · 
-Ray H. Seigfried, II '65 Secretary 

====:====:====:====: UTAH ============ 
Sept. 8 at the beautiful home of Club_ Pres. 
BILL AllEN '57, the annual pre-season and 
back-to-the-Campus cook-out was held. Those 
present, in addition to the Aliens, were Club 
Chaplain Rev. (Capt., USAF) BERNARD P. 
FOLEY CSC '52; TED BARES '59; CHUCK BEN­
NETT '55; NORM HEMMELGARN '48; CHRIS 
LANE '63; DAN McHUGH '36; TERRY Mc­
SWEENEY '68; BILL MANROD '67; JOHN 
MORAN '49; Dr. JOHN SHIRACK '50; JIM 
WEEKS '53; and honorary members Maurice 
Hawkeswarth and Bill lyons. 
John lyons '70 and his Chicago guest were "'indoctrinated"' by the aid grads and are re· turning to Campus with renewed vigor. Alter beer (a lot), hot dogs and beans, the "'1967 Notre Dame Football Highlights"' film was shown in the hope of rekindling enthusiasm out here in the land of Zion. 
In a brief business meeting, plans were made for watching the Oct. 26 Michigan State-NO game-in an atmosphere in keeping with the "'spirit"' of the Fighting Irish. 
Since the last issue, our regular secretary, BILL POGUE '61, has been transferred by his company to San Francisco. Bill will be missed by all here in Utah, but we do wish him well in his new assignment in the Bay Area. 
-Chuck Bennett '55, Acting Secretary 
=== WASHINGTON, D.C. === 
The Club officers were hosts to 30 incoming freshmen and their parents Sept. 4 at a lunch in honor of the freshmen. Mike Malone, a junior at NO, explained many of the events they would be confronted with in their first weeks on Campus. The parents then joined their sons in a question and answer period. 
Sept. 11 21 members braved a downpour to come to our first monthly hincheon for the fall season. Mike Corrigan, a sophomore at NO, spoke to those assembled about the Sophomore literary Festival. BRIAN O'NEIL is the chairman far our lunches which are on the second Tuesday of each month. 
Future activities planned by the Club are a general meeting at which time a model Constitution will be voted upon and our Navy trip Ia Philadelphia Nov. 2. 
-Ray Raedy '62, President 

==WESTERN WASHINGTON_:__ 
The Club is sponsoring a flight to the NO­USC game. Your $135.00 secures a round trip jet, Mayflower Hotel accommodations, all ground transportation in los Angeles and tickets lor the NO Rally at the Biltmore. And we'll not be alone. The Portland and Spokane Clubs are joining us. 
At UNO night JIM COONEY '59, Association Secretary, was the guest speaker. TOM MAY '55 was named Man of the Year and also re-elected pres. of the Club for a second term. 
Others elected were RAY O'LEARY, vice­
pres.; BILL HERBER '58, sec.; DENNIS RYAN 
'59, treas.; DAN CONLEY '29, director; and 
BOB MORTENSEN '52, director. Other direc­
tors presently holding office are DON ZECK 
'54, MILLARD BATTLES '55, '56 and JAMES 
DAILEY '58. 
The election committee was chaired by GEORGE STARBUCK '34 and he was assisted by TED CUMMINGS '49 and AUGUST Von· BOEKLIN '34. The Man of the Year committee was headed by JACK HUPF '47. 
The Club's Women's Auxiliary also elected the following officers: Mrs. JAMES LYONS ('54), pres.; Mrs. Bill DALY ('41) vice-pres. and Mrs. DICK NIEMER ('48), secretary-treas • 
-Bill Herber '58, Secretary 

ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
~, 
! 
Allllltni

Book Review 
A ill' 
Decisions of Life 
PERSONALITIES AND POWERS: A THEOL­OGY OF PERSONAL BECOMING by Robert Meagher '66, Herder & Herder, 142 pp. $3.50, 
WHEN A YOUNG l\IAN who has graduated so recently from ND publishes a noteworthy book, one might expect either of two reac­tions from his Alma Mater: either a ringing cheer, cheer ·for old Notre Dame or a scoffing frown -can any good come from this source? . 
My own reaction to Bob Meagh­er's book falls somewhere between these two extremes. It is not a cheer, cheer book in any popular sense. Its streams-run too deep for that. It is an intense book, quite introspective and dominantly in­fluenced by the contemporary ex­istentialist current. · · 
Authors like Kicrkegaard, Hci­degger, Camus, Sartrc, Marcel and Tillich have been deeply pon­dered-under the tutelage of John Dunne. It is a good book and well worth reading, not merely to ac­quaint you with the way the gen­eration under 30 is thinking these days, but rather to acquaint you with "the reflections of a new and genial mind." 
As its title indicates, this book is a study of the relationship be­tween personal development and the "powers" one opts for in the decisions of life. To opt for un­belief places one under the power of death and non-being. For if death and nothingness are. the final end of man, his thirst to live and grow as a human being can be satisfied only in the prescf?:t life. 
Thus men and states are domi­
nated either by the drive to im­
pose their own conception· of the 
good life and the full life while 
they can, or by the fear of death 
44 
and the desire for survival. In 
either case it is the power of death 
and non-being which is dominant. 
To opt for belief, on the other 
hand, is to opt for life and being. 
This docs not just mean that I be­
lieve abstractly in an afterlife. 
Rather it means that I discover a 
creative power within me by which . 
I build my own personality and 
cooperate in the construction of 
the City of God even in this 
world. A creative power of this 
sort man docs not invent nor him­
self create. He discovers it as the 
mysterious gift of life. 
The most serious criticism I 
have of the book is that it tends 
to make too much of a mystique 
out of ambiguity. I cannot agree 
with Kicrkegaard's tenet that re­
flection can be brought to a con­
clusion only by decision. It can be 
brought to a conclusion also by a 
judgment that says: yes, that's 
true. This judgment docs not al­
ways demand a decision. For one 
can say: yes, that's true, so what? 
The tenet that holds that only 
decision can bring reflection to a 
conclusion, it seems to me, holds 
open every judgment artificially 
and with unnatural straining and 
produces an undue fatigue in hu­
man existence. Certainly there are 
large areas of uncertainty and am­
biguity in man's life and there are 
many areas where we know we 
cannot find certainty and there 
arc still more areas where it isn't 
that important to find certainty. 
But I disagree with ·a position 
which makes such a mystique of 
the ambiguity of truth that one's 
life is ever like walking · on a 
thin layer of ice that is breaking 
through at every step. 
The possession of some truth, 
no matter how banal or insignifi­
cant it is, is a fact of everyday 
life, so much so that we wouldn't 
be able to make any practical or 
theoretical progress without it. If 
this· were not so, I am afraid· we 
would all still be "languishing in 
the wilderness." 
But if by knowing the truth, I 
mean knowing myself, becoming . fully conscious of who I am in my · uniqueness as .a· person, then I agree, human existence ·is quite ambiguous and human. experience quite a bit of seeing in a confused · 
manner through a glass darkly. 
-Rev. George Coulon CSC 
Dt•ademas 
Because Notre Dame's develop­ment program and it~ two prin­cipal magazines operate under my jurisdiction as Vice President for Public Relations and Develop­ment, I feel compelled to answer the letter of Michael Schaefer, '67, which appeared in the Sep­tember, 1968, issue of THE NoTRE DAME ALUMNUS.· Mr. Schaefer 
1 strongly criticized mailing to all Notre Dame's alumni and friends a Congressional Record reprint of a May 14 House of Representa-. tives speech by Congressman John Brademas on "The University of Notre Dame, SUMMA, and the 
·Future of Private Higher Edu­cation." . · 
· Congressman Brademas repre­sents the Third Congressional Dis­trict of Indiana in which Notre Dame is situated. He is a member of the U.S. House of Representa­tives Committee on Education and Labor. He has always shown a great interest in education, par­ticularly higher education, and more particularly Notre Dame and, in fact, ·is a member of the University's Advisory Council for the College of Arts and Letters. 
In December, 1967, just a few weeks after the SUMMA · Pro­gram· was-inaugurated, Congress­man Brademas proposed to an­other Notre Dame vice-president that he-might contribute in some measure to SUMMA's success by giving a_talk on the floor of the House calling attention to SUMMA and the crisis in the financing of private higher edu­cation generally. His remarks au­tomatically would ·appear in the CongresSional Record and ar­rangement would be made to send them in the form ofreprints (printed at University expense and mailed with his franking priv-· ilege) to the entire Notre Dame family. The timing· of the mailing of .the reprints in July was sched­uled by the University to follow as closely ·as possible the last of our SUMMA dinners for 1968. 
Mr. Schaefer seems to suggest that Notre Dame was exploited by Congressman Brademas for political advantage. On the con­trary, we regarded this project as in the University's interest and 
·proceeded to make the necessary arrangements. To the best of my knowledge, Mr. Schaefer's com-
ALUMN~S OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
1
', 
\ 

. munication _was the only one re­ceived here which in any way criticized the Congressman or the University in this matter. I re­alize that very few activities of members of Congress arc free of some political implication, but I would point out that only a very small fraction of those receiving the reprints reside in this Con­gressional District and arc in any position to support Mr. Brademas directly in a political way. 
It goes without saying that the University of Notre Dame as such, of course, supports no political candidate. I strongly~reject, how­ever-; Mr. Schaefer's suggestion that Congressman Brademas' con­cern for Notre Dame is "mini­mal," that he "owes the Notre Dame family an apology." Rather, I welcome this opportunity to thank him for his continuing in­terest in and support of higher education and Notre Dame which he has manifested in so m,any ways. 
. James W. Frick ·University of Notre Dame 

Sfteakers 
Three cheers for Arthur L. Conrad '35 for his letter in the September issue. He certainly ex­pressed my personal view on the Patriotism Award. While further reading the September issue I ran across ,something ·on the outside back cover that made me sick­UNIVERSITY CALENDAR; October 2, debate on LSD, Dr. 
·Timothy Leary Vs Dr. Sidney Cohen. Let's wake up before it is too-late and stop a drug addict like Dr. Leary from fostering his propaganda on our students. ·· -Joseph Linden '46 
Mission Viejo, California 

Vietnatlt · 
In the past issue Howard J. Dooley passed out plaudits (sic!) ­for' political actions of ND stu.: dents, and I submit that he forgot one. In 1964 the then Governor George C. Wallace was invited to speak at our Campus. Now, I do not defend his racist views, but I do defend the right of all Ameri­cans to free speech, and those who sought to deny Wallace his rights arc as morally reprehensible as those who seek to deny the anti­war demonstrators their rights. 
ALUMNUS OCTOBER 1968 NOVEMBER 
Let us set the record straight on one other issue. In 1965 I was a member of the Young Repub­licans who helped pass out the petition on Vietn~m. I'm also now on assignment as an Air Force First Lieut. to go to Viet­nam. But, · I have never con­
. sidered myself "hawkish." I signed the petition because it was designed solely as a support of the troops in Vietnam, and not as an affirmation of administration policy. 
-Garrett A. Isacco, '66 Eufaula AFS 

Just read Lawrence J. Bradley's letter in the September issue of ALUMNUS. 
What ND did he attend? I learned that an individual in office, charged with the respon­sibility for the welfare and safety of others, is obligated to make decisions ...• judgments based on objective analysis of all avail­able facts. My decision to call ar­tillery fire on a village from which enemy gunfire was delivering death and injury to many men, though it risked killing a few civilians, had to be made in -the interest of the general welfare of the many men known to be sus­taining injury. America is in Vietnam to preserve the GOD­given rights of the Vietnamese people, at the request of the Viet­namese government. The intent of · my first letter to the ALUMNUS was to refute. the wild statements made by H. J. Dooley '66 and published in the March '68 issue of ND ALUMNUS. The content of that 
.letter was factual, not assertive. The facts were substantiated by my own presence and I invited those who. doubted the ·truth to go sec for themselves. I DID NOT try to usc these truths as justification for our presence in Vietnam. 
-Ed Banks '54 Staten Island 

David Glennon's letter in .the March-April ALUMNUS raised several points upon which I wish to comment. I'm an Army Cap­tain stationed in Thailand follow­ing a tour in Vietnam. I received my commission through ROTC at ND. Mr. Glennon's stated op­position to ROTC at ND is nar­row-minded and his reference to 
the "mindless patriotism" of those who join it is absurd. I for one, accepting my obligation to spend two years in my country's service, preferred to do so as a commis­sioned officer, and for that reason voluntarily joined ROTC. As those who have fought for our country know, no one dislikes war more than the professional soldier. War may not be an acceptable means of settling clifferences be­tween nations but war sometimes becomes more acceptable than the consequences of failing to fight. Czechoslovakia is a primary ex­ample in modern history of the consequences of an attempt to avoid war. 
As demonstrated in your letter, Mr. Glennon, this attitude of "peace at any price" is again be­coming popular in some circles in America today. Remember that if you accept this philosophy, then you must also accept the possibil­ity of enslavement of our own country as the quite likely (in my opinion inevitable) consequence if our government completely for­sakes the use of military force in defending freedom. 
-Richard C. Meece, '62 APO San Francisco 
Mrs. America 
We were delighted to read that another ND wife has become a "Mrs. America" representative. My wife, the former Peggy Danehy, was "Mrs. New York State" '66-'67. Peg is the daughter of ND Prof. James P. Danehy '33 and .sister of James S. Danehy '63. The highlight of the pageant for us was Peg's winning the talent competition. Besides caring for our eight children she is a TV personality and professional model. 
-M. J. ((Skip" Maynard '57 Pound Ridge 
' 
..... ­
. . -. 
•. ~ 

.Eeho o:f. G•·eatn:ess. 
One of Notre . Dame's adopt'ed :sons, .. audi~nce that thrilled to his every· word. 
) actor Pat O'Brien; who won fame for his The atmosphere alternated between film portrayal of Knute Rockne, ~hook breathtaking silence and· a deafening roar do\vn ·the thunder from the skies at the as O'Brien peeled off ·his. coat in the Friday night pep-rally priorto the Purdue oppressive heat of the old Fieldhouse and game. . --. i • · .· . ·· poured forth his inimitable· echo of the The old soldier gave his famou~ Rockne~~ ;"Rock,'' _Terry · Hanratty .and George ·1. half-time talk to an immensely receptive :Kunz watch intently._ : 
.. ,..·. : ~ .._ . ' :..:( 
':,:>·;,-.::/::-;·:,,..~~.-,,;_-.{~W£.": ;·~~;/"''~~~-~~;::--~.-,. .._..,... ___., .,.. ··-·~r--:,-·-,r·•-;r~,.,..--~~-:
':..>~-~--­
-,;;';. 

> ~ I • < •• ' 
APPLICATION FOR AO~;SSION 
· TOTHE ·'j.' 1969 FRESHMAN CLASS'._ 
,·, .. • 

\U,
'/-:
·?:. 
:~; , N..._, ~;-.,:-,-~-~--.,.-..,..,-...:..-m..:,ldd'":"'---­
<~: '~.,. ·.~:_t 
In ordt.>t IOf u'l IU ptnc:f'U 'JOUf o1ppltUt1on \'OU mu\t Ml in ttw< bo;ll'Mo bt-luw \\tth \"OUr toc:•al "*'(_ufltV. numbt-f. Do ,,,, Whnuc 
'Yt}Uf ltflPI•<<~tiun \\:•tho&": A _Numb<¥. 
ood-o6-oooo 

PIN~ rrol<l ~;allnstrvct•o•n l:lf'IOff' , ftllmx out fOtm. (hP€' Vf print in inl.) · 
PER8QNAL IN~QRMAnDN 

~-~~-,;~'~'-'------~~--­
-. 2.Honwi•~NI.IIf1hll'r: 
1. o.,~ nf D•rt"~""'~--,-....---'--.r.r-...:..­
,"( ".... Pf~K~of B•rth•----,::-'------,=--­',:,s. '~rttal ~;aM_._.__,_·6. Rf'I;J!Oft•------, 
;..~ ~·~Ctt;z;n_ ~ ....h~t u~ntr\'1~-----:---'"'--;.. 
·';9.f.athf'fifvii~Umao;_·____...,..._:_____:._ 
)1.\"~nar_·_·_.·_OfCu"i,~lioft-'----'--'--'...:..­
.:co~tf'lf"•Utf"nc:kod'_.;_______~-~~ 
()p~ .tnd d.n"'.a':"~'dtod-.,----'----'---:­
___......,.. 

li'"ina'___Occup.atl()l't._--'--'----­
C~If.t;,an~-----------­...; ~·~·;andd~t~...;...if<kd;_·_·~-':--'--'---~ 
7." S\\11,11~~ ~hf' SAT tdfont•~'"• c~ us.tarM-d· i.O \'WI hiatk w.hc.~',t' 
···:·r·· 'ooo:....oon ·· "'' 
L•M.-ot~ h•th Ktw:.oJ~ •uMdf.d .trod ~~~-of "n~•f'l(f" 
NOTR[DAME-··.
. . .,~t·" . 
:. ADMISSIONS.· 
,'Taking 
lt.; .., 
• ·~·"" "'~ .. ~~,.......~_..., '"''~"r ~·r~· ~""'' · 
;·-o·n~=~&-~~~E~~: 
; c;;t)'... ·.· ~. ' ' 
-.._.. . ' ., 
·--~-1··--.~~_,.~,,.,·,..-' '. l 
QJ. 
f]J 
0 
o· 
D 
D.
0; D 
D 
Roololl"tl~l 0 ..:;_.. -·-, c~"""'l...,) :· ~:-tk 0 ./~>:.: / '. "'~"'"!loth) 0 
,~,. D 

'/ 4); ~OU h..\.1! not camp~!I'd iour h,&t, ·\.c:~ ;.;.uUhC!IIt.' ~ h amp . :<.totllfddlll!l'lty-uutSf.ntOt\"t'.,. '. · 
'/~:-. ftllt~'" 

', 1 • _____;..:,..:,;..;. 
::~11:·;..;..';_'_...;.;___.;
·, _______ 

"SECTION v; TIISTJNa REC~~D '' : 
" 

-1. u tw ~........... ~ xhot.~ic ~·iWe '~ ....,.,. ~ 
•;-tcacot~the•~.atf'lntma&tn lf'r'Otl'tntf"ftd ''" loUklf'lh«lf"'lilt•l.&trrdoltto.<.hKa t-l)chif'd•t•0"11Which ., ;thf" Tfll i' IOI:ot'-I.U.if'n . " 
.,, lo~con~t~ .dtni~~ you muU h..,.~""',;.,.:, SA! M 01111t cA the-1ollowina d.tn. 
b) W.wiltnE't'datloff~i•IC"opy.u( your teOfM from thei CoUt"'&e Bo.lrd: s.<:OJH m·ordfod ~low ot on ~uut : hogh ~~101 tra~.ri~, ~ not wffl(if'nt. ~ ' 
VtRBAL MATH 
M.tv.1968_.__. _·Orc.. t9b8 __, ·--· Mv.1%11 __· _ -~ j~; 1%9 __.._._._ 
'--~.l')bl __
;__•. _ 

l. If 'f'OU NW' t.l.ltft the N.at"-"'1 MHil Sc.holril9 ~l1fv1,.1 ~!~ ~•w rKOI'd ~~~-------'-­
/ ' • ' '. ~. • • > ' • 
BGCTION VJ. BXTRACUARICULAR RBCOAD 
1. li~ \'OUf m•ior lf'l.trK!IftttuLar oK1o...rt~ (both ·,FHChool ~ ' ; · 
<M-of-s<:bool) .,.j t~ ""at' of ~l(ip.ltion; fOf f"UmlJ4o. B&Nt. 2.1; V.w"'tv footb.&U U. P¥1~ CYO ;U.4 ' 
l. li1t ~~ •nod ~JI'Ort ·~ !Wveh ,:~.,"td. ·t01 '~~~--:' Crt•z~ip...,l!fd.r•~ Honor\l.l. S.Cond ~' •· v ... "'., N~_lftl.r1.l.4; ....,.hOft41 Mref•t lf'ttcotofC~oon. 
). Lhtoffocn~ poitt1ons ollf'~ vou h..IYe hco4d llftd 1ht' ~ · "'".lft.fOff"\.tiTIPII".Vmityb.t\Jo.t'tNIIcfPCa•"4· \'.c:~P~· "'­St~ ~~~ ), Cl.m SK.M.ary l.l.: 
~·aECTtON VII: YOUR PERSONAL STATEN·. 
· On th;s p.t~ tou art-lno,tt,.d lo m.L.f.·• "l.a!rmtonl: ot'•ny m. in rf..a<hina a dt<ct1oion on tt1Uf .tppll(c'!lion tot' .admi'l~. ( ., . dt>t.li•ls tiC ~i•l Jlt(l"'""" o, .M '''"''*"ttt "hoch \UU ';.11!' fl 
.~~:::;!~~;:t.;,~;: ==~~;:~~";:!;;~:·t~• ~· 
lo 1;--~rw-in mind wh(-n thf" (7~'~~ ts dt-l·l~~u~.. 
. '-: ., 
SECTION VIII.. PAAGNT-8 ADREEMENT 
;.' <ity ~' 

' .·':.-:\."": ~-:. ~ ·.. _,,".aipcOO., '! ~". :;,:.··-. · 
·' .·SooAL SECURITY·.~BER ·:· <:1~ ~ •Ut vi tO. pnxt•n ~ .appli<atton ; ~---wumvllftll,"t~boln bt-lowwith ~ •·.· 
+ :t<:· :. · : · :~«"t.l ~U.tty numbfor_ Do f'oinl !wbmit. 
-~~:t~;':: •~.,, .:.~;·::.t~.C~fKIII, ~-~~~,~~::"!7~:·:..:.. .. ".' 
' -.·· -~~-­
000-00-0000 
~.~ l..ad ~al ht\trt.Ktte>M t-.('#or"" fillt~~i: out f(Jfm. (f\'pe or pt•llt in inl.) 
2~~ Tt'~ Nurnbrt; · Aru_·__Num~---··-· ' 
· 1 O.tf"olButh_,...,__--z=---'--;=---­
4. f'IM:e-of Borth,_:._,;;------;,.--­..~. M.tntai'St•lvt-. _. __& RrloJIOII------'­
7. Cii•Z"" of~ count"''.....--------'--­
,,~~·~"~-~-~--~;..;.._____ 
l~m&'-·-·_·_-.Occu~.atiorl_.____~--­
·Cotl<&<.,,.ndodl.,---...:..-------­;~~-~~~ ~.•rdftf'--'-----"-'---­
&ECTIDN tt. I!DUCATIDNAL DACKOAQUND 
l. Who i~ ,-<V Pf,nc,~JI·.;.·.;_·---.,-----­. J Who tt \'<.IU' O.rHlDf nl Cuod.ann·f·----'---­4 \'t'llOfrom~"~""'!ll""''''~~~k-tt... otrf"(·om~•t;of-1 
s \\~n;thfo SAT ~·h•r>tc~•u•arwd to~uut ho1h .. ~•.ol' 
.. , ..·oqGJ-0,00 ..... 
-. Lo" 01hrf h•1h w:~,. •U~ ~ tU!" ol "tt~~·wb"'co 
•&CT1DN Ill•. EDUCAnONAL PLANS 
In orde1' tOid~ntity fOUl protr.wn ol stud~ (orrKtl,< .1,.j ~rt.c..u't , • refH 10 tht Bulk!ttn of lt~form.tmt1 to chtotlr. th.&t "'~ """" tht!-h•t , , All ff'Qur"""""" mc.~st bf' MH bt-fvl• tuut lt•r"" Khor-..1 ar¥.fwiiC>f'l d 
Tht ~cl Area Wid 1.MfM't n.. Cdi.Qe cf ~. n-. 0 L.t:-•1 Mt(Mtc~tnt~~l 0 ""'()I(M(.co 
0 Finco Arts. . C Cheml("al 
C P~.c.aVP~t.al C CiY~I 
0 Comhitlotod Alt•·ln&~l . 0 (f'JUiftfll'll Sc.lr'I"Ct' 
-{~ ~-ptOCfMI) 0 (k<trtC.al 
0 M«"'noe.al c M.ot:.aiii.JI'JY . 
0 Anhotlf'CtUft' lS tw'.,. prop.am) • 
' 
' .
SBCT1DN IV. SCHQLASnC R&CDRD . 

1 rnd~..t._t,;;.·~·~tt.a<k·f'lf·~.."' ,..,.fhchyou ~~~, c A((!f'ift.atfd c .~ c ~ c . 2._...,.,;.,.:1~ ~ {~./t.....-u t~ WI _d•n'--on &c.t.a"d , 
l. ;a,) If yuut hich Khool tf•nsct•Pl 00£$ NOT .Ktontp&n't")Our 
•ndthco lNtdUJinl \o!Ohich ,-ou"'...-"""'ollif'd ittlh.ll (l>urW;· , ~u ,.ou 'WioOUid r«otd it as toll010o"\. 
·,.·. ','''"'ldH•""'YI}) 
b} 00 NOT ff'Q\K',. 'ruut ,..,,.. tchool ofll("~f1 to cnmplrttoth<i' 
. . •.. ; ~rwo . :_ ~ Yt'at ~;,jkd ':'".jr~·­
[]' 
.[JJ OJ 
'E!I 
>i ,'MATHEMA'TCS . :.~ ; Alatrbril ~ ·O· :._ ~_,..,.;, 
0 '~;:: t~t-?~~~; ·~-~-: 0 
• fn~ry· 
0 0 
·o· 
60ENCe 
CoM. Sc.orMt' ··~7--.. 0 
,~~_'j.·-~~~\..~.=::::, 0
.o:
··.-""',...·,l,.1 ·O 0
,;~)~;~~~~! ~-t\~~~~ ·~::t~: : ' . . 

• .·, 4 lf~h.l~not complttf'd wour h•c"-Klw:oul if'du<:JtrM...., '""" : .• ~iNnnaf(:ll.ll"~~\"t'M : . . • ' . 
'""Sf"mHclrt'' ~-,. 
;:_;:_;:__;....;:_ .;.;_;_;...._;__;....__ 
z. s· _·;..·..:,·'_..:,;..;....:,..:,....;.__ '" )'_:,._.._'_;..;..__....;. ,.."-: ,·. . . 
."'.".·:~. 7;~~ ~<i,~-::·::~:~~~.' 
..... ,........· . ' ~ 






