The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
APRIL-MAY 

MIDNIGHT RIDERS IN THE LAND DF DZ 
VOL. 49, NO. 2 APRIL-MAY, 1971 
James D . Cooney *59 ExEcunvx DIRECTOR ALUMNI ASSOCIATION EDITOR 
Timothy J. Hughes '61 MAKAGING EDITOR George A. Scheuer '28 
CHIEF COPV EDITOR BUI MitcheU '71 EDITORIAI. ASSISTANT 
M. Bruce Harlan '49 CHIEF PHOTOGRAPHER 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 
HONORARY PkEsiPENT 


Robert A. Erkins '45 
FftESIDENT 
John T. Massman '56 

ViCE-BlESIDENT, ADMINISIRATIVX AFFAIRS 
Frank L. McGinn '52 
ViCE-PfeESIDENT, ALUMNI AFFAIRS 
Robert L. McGoldrick '55 VICE-PRESIDENT, STUDENT AFFAIRS Leonard H. Tose '37 VICE-PRESIDENT, ACADEMIC AFFAIRS James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTI\X DIRECTOR Michael E. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 
DIRECTORS TO 1972 

Robert A. Erkins '45, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Alassman '56, 3917 Broadu-ay, Kansas Cit}-, Mo. 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 BIdg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 Robert L. McGoldrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 Leonard H. Tosc '37, 64 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 19405 


DIRECTORS TO 1973 

Daniel D. Canalc '42, 1325 Commerce Title BIdg., Memphis, Tenn. 38103 Dr. John C. Lungren '38, 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90807 James C. MacDevitt '35, 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4th St., St. Paul, Minn. 55102 John R. Panelli '49, 17549 Kirkshire, Bir­mingham, Alich. 48009 

DIRECTORS TO 1974 

Joseph G. Bertrand '54, 8114 S. Luclla Ave., Chicago, 111. 60617 Paul J. Doyle '36. 5061 Cedar Creek Dr., Houston, Tex. 77027 Peter F. Fhiherty '51, 5033 Castlcman St., Pittsbursh, Pa. 15232 William K. McGowan Jr. '57, 108 Pcnns>l­\'ama Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46204 Charles F. Osbom '38, 7315-51st N.E., SeatUc, Wash. 98115 1971 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduc­tion in whole or in part without \vritten permission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, March, May, August and November, by the University of Notr« Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
FEATURES 

7 Suppose They Gave a Reunion '71 and Nobody Came 
8 You Gave More Than You Took 
12 Midnight Riders in the Land of Oz 18 The Ombudsman DEPARTMENTS 
3 WD News 16 Alumni Spea/f 21 Class News 42 Club News 47 Graduate Schools 49 On Record 50 Alumni Ask 

FINANCE IN HIGHER EDUCATION 
Before we get too complacent over the fact that the ND SUMMA cam­paign topped its goal 15 months ahead of schedule (see opposite page), it might be good to note a few facts about educational finance in this coun­try. They come from a report for the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education. 
More than 1500 colleges and uni­versities—two thirds of our public and private institutions of higher educa­tion—are in financial difficulty or are headed for financial trouble. These are not just small colleges. They in­clude California, Chicago, Harvard, Michigan, Minnesota, St. Louis, Stan­ford and Tuiane. 
Even Notre Dame has its troubles. Its cash deficit in its operating budget for the 1969-70 fiscal year was $596,000. Its projected deficit for the current fiscal year (ending June 30, 1971) is $70,000. 
Several reasons are given by the Commission for the economic down­turn in higher education: 
—As growth institutions, colleges and universities face constant pres­sures to adopt new academic pro­grams, engage in research, aspire to higher goals. These needs have in­creased operating expenditures 1.5 to 
3.5 per cent per student per year during the last decade. 
—General inflation has increased costs 2.4 per cent per student per year during the 1960's. 
—The necessity to increase faculty salaries has stepped, up operating costs 
2.0 per cent per student per year. 

—^Increased student financial aid because of higher tuition has increased operating expenditures 0.9 to 1.7 per cent per student per year. 
—^Adverse reactions to.campus dis­turbances have affected both private and legislative support. 
—^A bearish stock market has re­duced financial incentive for private gifts at the same time that it has re­duced income from most endowment investments. 
—^All who supported higher educa­tion—individuals, foundations, cor­porations, the government—have been faced by an increasing number of re­quests for funds to support urgent and long-neglected problems of society and many have responded to these re­quests by decreasing their support of higher education. 
—^The rate of growth in federal financial support of higher education is declining. 
These are but a few of the prob­lems affecting higher education as a whole and Notre Dame in particular. However, as Jim Cooney points out on page 16, Notre Dame alumni con­tinue to support this University gener­ously. And for that we are all thankful. 
^/^ 


MeneND-SNIC 
A unification of ND and Saint Mary's 
College was recommended by the ex­
ecutive committees of their boards of 
trustees. The unification will begin 
immediately and be completed not 
later than the academic year 1974-75. 
The proposal was announced by the heads of the boards of trustees, Edmund A. Stephan of Notre Dame and Mother Olivette Whelan CSC, of Saint Mary's, and Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president of ND, and Sister Alma Peter CSC, acting presi­dent of Saint Mary's. It is subject to ratification by the entire boards of trustees of both institutions. A further statement of unification policy is ex­pected from the individual boards fol­lowing their spring meetings. 
The two groups of trustees said, "The new entity formed by unification will create a center of total educa­tional opportunity that could not be achieved by either institution alone and will strengthen resources of both." 
While the recommendation calls for a single student body of men and women, one faculty, one president, one administration and one board of trustees, there was special concern evident for the preservation of the identity of Saint Mary's College. 
"In the light of the changing role of women today, particular concern must be exercised for the full and equal participation by women in the intellectual and social life of ND," the trustees commented. 
Women undergraduates at ND will matriculate through SMC, and the ND degrees they receive will bear the name of SMC as the college of rec­ord. The proportion of female stu­dents in the combined ND-SMC stu­dent body will be increased starting in September, 1972. 
"The unified structure will carry for­ward both the two institutions' his­torical commitment to Catholic higher education as well as the com­mon tradition of the men and women of the Congregations of Holy Cross," the trustees noted. ND, which has 6,300 undergraduates, came under the control of a predominantly lay board of trustees in 1967. SMC, which has 1,600 women, is governed by a board of trustees composed of Sisters, lay­men and lay women. 
Aspects of the unification effort which will have to be worked out 
over the next four years include: 
—Engagement of consultants to 
study and make recommendations 
concerning financial arrangements, in­
cluding lease or rental agreements, 
for the physical facilities of SMC. 
—Movement toward a unification 
of acaderftic departments, administra­
tive areas and budgets. "Rank and 
tenure of present SMC faculty mem­
bers will be honored, and every effort 
made to place other personnel in com­
parable positions in the unified struc­
ture," the trustees said. 
—Negotiation of an agreement be­tween ND and the Sisters of the Holy Cross for appropriate representation among the Fellows, the trustees and the officers of ND, and for remunera­tion for the services of religious work­ing in ND's administration, teaching and religious ministry. 
The administrations of ND and 
SMC were charged with presenting to 
the boards of trustees next fall a time­
table for unification of academic af­
fairs, student affairs, business affairs 
and public relations and development 
operations. 
"It is fully expected," the trustees concluded, "that two proud schools cannot become one without strain and sacrifice, but coeducation offers ad­vantages we cannot forsake, and our common history forbids us to seek them except together." 
The unification move climaxes pro­gressive collaboration between the two schools which began with a student co-exchange in 1966 and most recent­ly resulted in a study of future co­operation by Drs. Rosemary Park of the University of California at Los Angeles and Lewis B. Mayhew of Stanford University (see Jan.-Feb. ALUMNUS). 

Stmhints BeGted 
Two Notre Dame students have been elected to the top national offices of Association of International Students in Economics and Commerce (AISEC), a world-wide organization with chapters in 53 countries. 
Francis "Joe" Loughrey, Holyoke, Mass., a senior economics major, has been elected president of the national organization serving 80 universities and colleges in this country, and 
Paul C. Roberts, Appleton, Wis., a 
senior accounting major, will serve as 
vice president. This is the first time 
in the history of the organization that 
two students from the same school 
have held major offices. 
Loughrey and Roberts will assume their new offices July 1. Both served as U.S. delegates to an international conference in The Hague, Nether­lands. 

TllSllliUM 
ND has exceeded the $52 million goal of its most ambitious development program 15 months ahead of schedule. The announcement that the Univer­
sity had raised $54.5 million since 
launching its five-year "SUMMA" 
capital gifts campaign in 1967, was 
made in late March by Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh CSC, ND's president, and Dr. O. C. Carmichael Jr., chair­man of the board of Associates Cor­poration of North America, South Bend, Ind., and national chairman of the program. The two reported the program's success to the executive committee of ND's board of trustees at its annual spring meeting which ended March 21. 
The achievement is all the more noteworthy. Father Hesburgh re­marked, because the University is be­lieved to be the first ever to attempt three major capital gift campaigns in a row. ND has now raised, in cash gifts and pledges, more than $100 million in the last decade. Two pre­vious development programs, aided by matching gifts from the Ford Founda­tion, produced $46.6 million between 1960 and 1966: 
"We are grateful to the alumni, friends, parents, corporations and foundations who made commitments to Notre Dame," said Carmichael. "The general climate for philanthropy in the 3V4 years of 'SUMMA' was adversely affected by the economy and by a diminution of public confidence in higher education. Despite this fact, we have exceeded our goal in advance of our deadline. No more striking proof can be offered of the loyalty of ND's constituencies." 
Major segments of the "SUMMA" program were faculty development, $20 million; graduate education, $13.9 million; special research piagrams. 


niD lUews 
$4.5 million, and general University development, SI3.5 million. The em­phasis was on increasing Notre Dame's endowment of $60.6 million in order to strengthen priority academic areas in the University. Carmichael pointed out that, as is the case with virtually all major development programs, some specific areas of "SUMMA," such as endowed professorships, were under-subscribed even though the general goal was exceeded. "TTie University will continue to seek funds to meet all such priorities," he said. 
Almost 28,000 individual gifts were made to the program, and the av­erage contribution of ND alumni drew praise from Father Hesburgh. "Sixty per cent of our alumni have been graduated since 1950," he noted, "yet the average gift was $966. This figure, plus the fact that almost three of four alumni contributed a total of $20.8 million, is indeed heartening in a day when many institutions are ex­periencing a period of alumni es­trangement." Father Hesburgh also noted that Notre Dame's trustees gave a total of $6 million. 
National leaders of the "SUMMA" program included J. Peter Grace, president of W. R. Grace & Company, New York, N.Y.; Don McNeill, Don McNeill Enterprises, Chicago; tenor Richard Tucker of the Metropolitan Opera, New York City; actress Irene Dunne Griffin, Beverly Hills, Calif.; 
C. R. Smith, former chairman of the board of American Airlines, Washing­ton, D.C.; Paul Foley, president and chief executive officer of the Inter­public Group, Inc., New York City; Dr. George Shuster, assistant to the president of ND, and James E. Arm­strong, former executive secretary of the ND Alumni Association, South Bend. 
Several thousand volunteers in 60 metropolitan areas with concentrations of Notre Dame alumni were involved in the campaign. TTie largest dollar amounts came from New York City ($9.2 million), Chicago (8 million), and Philadelphia ($1.2 million). In terms of percentage, the Ohio area of Dayton-Springfield led the nation with almost 400 per cent of its quota. 
New DiDaptmeit HHIS 
Three new department heads have been appointed at the University. 
They are Rev. David B. Burrell CSC, theology. Dr. William T. Liu, soci­ology, and Dr. Dennis J. Dugan, economics. 
Fr. Burrell, a 1954 magna cum laude ND graduate, will head the De­partment of Theology, effective Sept. 
1. He has been a member of the philosophy faculty since 1967 and holds the rank of associate professor. He received his licentiate in theology from Gregorian U. in Rome in 1960 and after further study at Laval U. he took his doctorate in philosophy at Yale U. in 1965 as a Kent Fellow. 
Dr. Liu, professor of sociology and a specialist in the study of population dynamics, will become chairman of the Department of Sociology on June 
1. He will succeed Dr. Willir;m V. D'Antonio who will become chairman of the sociology department at the U. of Connecticut. Liu received a mas­ter's in sociology at ND in 1952 and has been a member of the teaching staff since 1962. He serves as director of the Social Science Training and Research Laboratory and as director of the Study of Population and Social Change at the University. 
Dr. Dugan succeeds Rev. Ernest J. Bartell CSC as chairman of the De­partment of Economics. Fr. Bartell is now director for the Center for Study of Man in Contemporary Society. Dugan announced that Dr. Roger B. Skurski would serve as director of graduate studies and Dr. William H. Leahy as director of undergraduate studies in the department. 
FP. 

Rev. Arthur J. Hope CSC, a member of the Class of '20 and author of Notre Dame —100 Years, died Feb. 9 in Holy Cross Hall after a long illness. He entered the Congregation of Holy Cross after graduation and studied at Gregorian U. in Rome where he received a Ph.D. in philoso­phy in 1923 and a doctorate in sacred theology in 1927. He was ordained April 16, 1927. 
He served as assistant director of Moreau Seminary from ordination until 1930 when he was assigned to the U. of Portland. Returning to ND in 1934, he taught philosophy before going to New Orleans, La., as a pastor. Work on his history of ND was com­pleted from 1941 to 1943. He also served as assistant editor of Ave Maria magazine from 1943 to 1945 and later was chaplain at St. Joseph's Farm, Granger, Ind. He retired in 1962 after serving as editor of Province Review, a CSC newsletter. 

Seiior Feliw 
William M. Kunstler, an attorney who has defended several prominent ac­tivist leaders, has been selected as the 1971 Senior Fellow by the ND senior class. 
Kunstler won in a vote which also included seven other candidates — former New Haven, Conn., police chief James Ahem; Dr. Charles Hurst, president of Chicago's Malcolm X Community College; James MacGreg­or Bums, American political histo­rian; philosopher Josef Pieper; novel­ist Saul Bellow; psychologist and Utopian theorist B. F. Skinner, and radical joumalist I. F. Stone. 
A total of 402 seniors.voted out of 1,450 eligible. 
The Senior Fellow award was estab­lished in 1969 to honor "an individual who has the integrity, the decency and the willingness to work for the best values and finest traditions of our society." The winning candidate nor­mally spends a day or two on the ND campus, giving a public lecture and meeting informally with students. Previous winners have been former Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy of Minne­sota and former Rep. Allard K. Low­enstein of New York City. 
Kunstler received his undergradu­ate degree from Yale University in 1941 and his law degree from Colum­bia in 1944. Since 1951 he has been a member of the Manhattan firm of Kunstler, Kunstler, Kenoy and has gained his reputation defending such persons as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., former Rep. Adam Clayton Pow­ell, Stokely Carmichael and H. Rap Brown. Following his well-publicized defense of the "Chicago Seven" last year, Kunstler spoke without incident on the ND campus at a time when he was banned from several other schools. Currently he has assumed the defense of Daniel and Philip Ber­rigan against charges of conspiring to bomb government property and kid­nap a federal official. 


Laetve Mtdilisls 
New York Times Drama Critic Wal­ter F. Kerr and his wife and fellow author, Jean, have been named the 1971 recipients of the Laetare Medal, ND's highest honor. 
ND's president. Rev. TTieodore M. Hesburgh CSC, announced their se­lection March 20 for the honor, con­ferred annually since 1883 on out­standing American Catholics. The Kerrs are the second couple in history to receive the award. Mr. and Mrs. Patrick F. Crowley of Chicago, found­ers of the Christian Family Move­ment, were honored in 1966. 
The Kerrs join such recent Laetare Medalists as Dr. William B. Walsh, a Washington, D.C., physician and hu­manitarian who was honored last year; Supreme Court Justice William 
J. Brennan Jr.; diplomat R. Sargent Shriver; poet Phyllis McGinley; labor leader George Meany, and the late President John F. Kennedy. Other re­cipients connected with the theater in­clude producer Augustine Daly in 1894, actress Margaret Anglin in 1927, and actress Irene Dunne in 1949. 
Walter Kerr, 57, is a native of Evanston, 111., and took his bachelor's and master's degrees at Northwestern 
U. Shortly after completing his grad­uate work in 1938, he joined the fac­ulty of Catholic U. as an instructor in speech and drama, where he remained until 1949. From 1950 to 1952 he was drama critic for 7"/ie Common­weal magazine, and then spent fifteen years writing drama criticism for the New York Herald Tribune. When that newspaper folded in 1966, he joined the Times where he now con­tributes a Sunday column of dramatic criticism. 
Jean Collins Kerr, 47, is a native of Scranton, Pa., who married her husband in 1943, two years before she received her M.F.A. from Cath­olic U. A year later, the couple adapted for the stage Franz Werfel's The Song of Bernadette and collab­orated on Jenny Kissed Me in 1948; Touch and Go in 1949 and Goldilocks in 1959. Her books include Please Don't Eat the Daisies, 1957; The Snake Has All the Lines, 1960; and Penny Candy, 1970. Her stage writ­ings also include Mary, Mary, 1961, 
and Poor Richard, 1964. 
The couple live in Larchmont Manor, New York, and have five sons and one daughter. 

Suimiep listitDte 
The ND department of theology and the Boston Theological Institute (BTI) will co-sponsor a summer institute for seminary-related field education direc­tors June 15-30 on the campus. 
The institute is the first of three planned under a $50,000 grant from the Lilly Endowment, Inc., of Indian­apolis, according to Dr. Tjaard G. Hommes, director of the pastoral the­ology program at Notre Dame and co-director of the institute. 
Field education, Hommes explained, used to be a poor stepchild of the seminary curriculum but has come into its own in an age where seminary students are seeking the kind of edu­cation which enables them to carry on meaningful service in a society which has become complex, secular, technological, urbanized and politi­cized. 
A maximum of 20 different regis­trants, preferably those new to the field, will be accommodated each summer, and the venture is ecumen­ical. Hommes, an ordained United Church of Christ minister, will share directorship of the institutes with the Rev. Richard T. Cleary, S.J., who holds Hommes' former position of di­rector of field education for BTI, a consortium of seven theological schools in the Boston area. BTI will host the 1972 institute, which will re­turn to Notre Dame in 1973. 
Applications may be obtained by writing Hommes at Notre Dame. The fee for the institute is $75 a person. 

37 Otfier Fanhs 
There are 37 religions other than Roman Catholic represented in the student body of ND, according to a survey by Rev. William A. Toohey CSC, director of campus ministry. They constitute 11 per cent of the 8,156 graduate and undergraduate students currently enrolled. Of the 579 non-Catholic students, 275 are undergraduates and 304 are graduate students. There are 342 who claim no church affiliation, including 216 undergraduates and 126 graduate students. 
Major religions represented on the campus this year include Methodist, 92; Lutheran, 60; Presbyterian, 58; Baptist, 45; Episcopalian, 44; and He­brew, 25. An additional 131 students listed their religion as "Protestant." Also included in the listing of reli­gious faiths are Hindu, Buddhist, Sikh, Moslem, Bahai, Bokanis, Bol­tunist, Moravian, and Shinto. 
The president of ND strongly de­fended an unmarried Catholic clergy in his keynote address at the annual convention of the National Federation of Priests' Councils, March 15, in Baltimore, Md. 
"This will seem unduly harsh," Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC told the organization which supports optional celibacy, "but the present crisis is such that we will not be able to do what must be done if we cannot count on total dedication in the evangelical tradition. I do not discount the pos­sible contribution of married priests, particularly in certain areas of con­temporary life, but they will not be the shock troops that will carry the day against the monumental powers of darkness that presently threaten the people of God." 
Eariier in his talk, Fr. Hesburgh criticized the selection as bishops "of men who are safe, uncontroversial, favorably disposed to Rome and pref­erably Roman-educated, seminary rectors or canon lawyers or episcopal secretaries—in a word, generally those who will not make waves." In acknowledging some exceptions he later praised Cardinals John Dearden of Detroit and Lawrence Sheehan of Baltimore. 
Fr. Hesburgh argued for the choice 
of bishops by the priests and people 
of a diocese. While the method has 
shortcomings, he observed, it "is self-
corrective after people are made to 
live with their own bad choices" and 
"would avoid the horrible human 
anomaly that exists in some dioceses 
in the worid today where the vast 
majority of the priests and people 


Mil Mews 
simply reject the ecclesiastical leader 
imposed upon them by the system." 
He also endorsed functional bishops 
not tied to geographical dioceses but 
to a specialized ministry, such as the 
inner city and rural poor. 

ND's president, who is chairman 
of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, 
urged priests to confront the real is­
sues of "war and peace, racial justice, 
human development across the world, 
the human and humane uses of science 
and technology, the sanctity of human 
life as abused by a growing cult and 
legalization of abortion; Christian lib­
erty and the draft for military service; 
Christian conscience and its obliga­
tions; Christian education and a better 
•understanding of the young who, if lost, signalize the loss of untold mil­lions in succeeding generations." 
He insisted that priests deceive themselves by complaining about a crisis of authority or a crisis of lead­ership. "Wrong on both counts," he said. "What we are suffering is a crisis of vision. It is the vision of Christ and His good news, His salvific mes­sage, that vivifies the Christian com­munity, age after age, and gives new life and continual inspiration to everj' priest in every age." 
HHds Admissions 

John T. Goldrick, a former admis­
sions counselor at the University, has 
been appointed director of admissions, 
succeeding Dr. Peter P. Grande, who 
will be returning to teaching duties 
in the Department of Education. 

Goldrick, currently a counselor at 
the American Community School, op­
erated in Beirut, Lebanon, by the 
American U. of Beirut, will assume 
his duties in August, Rev. James T. 
Burtchaell CSC, provost, said. 

The recipient of both a bachelor's 
degree ('62) and a master's in coun­
seling psychology ('70) from ND, 
Goldrick served as an admissions 
counselor at ND between 1967 and 
1970, specializing in minority recruit­
ment programs. A native of Hamil­
ton, Ohio, Goldrick taught in ele­
mentary and secondary schools fol­
lowing his undergraduate training. He 
also taught two years in a girls' sec­
ondary school in TTiailand while in the 
Peace Corps. 


Stident Prasldeit 
John M. Barkett, a junior from Miami, Fla., will serve as student body president next year. Orlando Rod­riguez, a junior from Miramar, Puerto Rico, will be vice president. 

They were chosen March 1 in a run-off election by a vote of 2,216 to 2,001 after a campaign of promises to enhance study and social conditions in the residence halls, improve re­cruitment of minority students, estab­lish academic priorities and work for a mutually beneficial coeducational program. 
They succeed David M. Krashna, of Pittsburgh, Pa., and Mark E. Winings, Elwood, Ind. 

DP. Birton HDRored 
For outstanding contributions to the nation's atomic energy programs, Dr. Milton Burton, director of the ND Radiation Laboratory, received the Atomic Energy Commission's citation along with a gold medal and parch­ment scroll. 
The presentation was made by Wil­frid E. Johnson, commissioner of the AEC. The citation praises Burton "for his contributions to the nation's atomic energy program in determining the effect of intense radiation on a great diversity of materials and pure sub­stances, including particularly graphite and water, in time to influence the design and operation of the first pro­duction reactors." 
The Radiation Laboratory, which Burton helped establish, was described in the citation as holding "a preemi­nent position in the realm of radiation research." 

Younger ND graduates will be assured representation on the alumni board of directors beginning next year. The board at its winter meeting on campus voted unanimously for a plan that will elect an alumnus who graduated with­in the last five years. 
The board will increase its members from 16 to 17. However, the new member will serve only one year. ^ Other elected directors serve three-year terms. \ 
The special category was created i because the board felt it was neces-i sary to involve younger alumni in its deliberations, according to James D. l Cooney, executive director. He point­ed out that nearly 40 per cent of the alumni have graduated since 1960, but have no representation on the board. "The primary reason for this is that younger alumni are not being nomi­nated to run for the board," Cooney said. "Last year only one person who graduated within the last 10 years was nominated." 
Cooney said that nomination forms are sent to alumni senators, club pres­idents, former members of the board, class secretaries and chairmen of de­velopment committees. However, he stressed, alumni at large can nominate potential candidates. Forms may be obtained by writing to the Alumni OflBce. 

hmoint li w Dein 
Thomas I-. Shaffer, associate dean of the ND Law School, has been ap­pointed dean. The appointment is ef­fective July 1. 
Shaffer succeeds acting dean Ed­ward J. Murphy, who has served since the resignation of William B. Lawless, a former member of the New York Supreme Court who last February re­signed to join the staff of a Wall Street legal firm. 
A specialist in estate planning, Shaffer joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1963 following two years as a member of the Indianapolis law firm of Barnes, Hickam, Pantzer & Boyd. A native of Billings, Mont., Shaffer spent four years in the U.S. Air Force before receiving his B.A. from the College of St Joseph in Albuquerque, N.M., in 1958. He was graduated cum laude from Notre Dame's Law School in 1961. He was appointed a professor of law in 1966 and associate dean in 1969. This current academic year he is on leave teaching at the School of Law at the U. of California' at Los Angeles. 
Shaffer is married and has eight children. 
"Suppose they gave a reunion and 
nobody came." So began a letter to 
the Class of '61, which will celebrate 
its 10th anniversary this year. And 
the letter continued: 
"Impossible, you might say. At least at Notre Dame. Reunions are a sacred tradition at ND. They're like pep rallies in the old field house or weekend pilgrimages to Frankie's. They've always happened and they always will. 
"Well, the old field house is now a center for fine arts and Frankie's has fallen into disfavor among some stu­dents. So it's just possible that many of us might ask the question: Why bother about a class reunion? 
"There are some valid reasons for a return to the campus on June 11, 12 and 13 this year. One of the most im­portant is that it's a chance to renew old friendships. And that is as it should be. For relationships formed at ND are etched in the memory much more permanently than any course taken or gridiron victory celebrated. Another reason for returning is an opportunity to find out what's hap­pening at Notre Dame today. You'll have a chance to talk with adminis­trators, faculty and students. Times have changed at ND. Even more than the most visionary member of the Class of '61 would have imagined 10 short years ago. 
"Also, reunions are just plain old-fashioned fun. 
"Nostalgia seems to be a current craze these days. So if you've got a yen to be nostalgic about your years at Notre Dame, there's no. better time or place to conjure up old memories than at Reunion '71." 
Judging from the early returns, a reciord number of ND grads will be headed back to the campus to partake of the cup of nostalgia offered by Re­union '71. 
Why do ND graduates annually re­turn to the Campus? Some indication was given in a survey taken by the Alumni Association at last year's re­union. 
Sixty-four per cent of the 1000 alumni attending Reunion '70 re­sponded to the survey. When asked to check the primary reasons why they came back, 84.2 per cent indi­cated "to renew acquaintances with classmates." The next highest primary reason was "to learn what's happening at ND today" with 27 per cent. This category also attracted the most votes for a "secondary" reason for return­ing: 35.3 per cent. 
The overwhelming majority, 94.6 per cent, felt their purpose in return­ing had been fulfilled. 
Of those who had attended previous reunions, 53.3 per cent thought it bet­ter than their last, 35.7 the same and 10 per cent not as good. 
However, 95 per cent indicated that they hope to be back in five years. 
But don't expect the reunion to be coed. To the question, "Would you prefer that spouses be invited to fu­ture reunions?" 67.6 per cent.said no, 
23.9 per cent said yes and the other 
8.5 per cent is apparently either un­married or undecided. 
YOU GAVE I YOU TOOK 
by Christopher Bale '71 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students spend their summers working with the poor. 
Dave Gomez, a Notre Dame senior who is the president of the Council for the International Lay Apostolate (CILA), saw a quote from D. H. Lawrence on the wall of a Peace Corps oflice in Lima, Peru. He copied it so he would not forget: 
You gave more than you took, I took more than I gave; That too is woe and vanity. 
"I could never forget that quote," he said. "It expressed so well the problem, and I think everyone who has gone on or will go on a project, must deal with in themselves. It is very hard to speak of a project in terms of concrete accomplishments and given the length of time we stay during the summer there can not be very many. There is no accurate way to measure the influence I have on the people I come into contact with. But I am very sure of what I learned from the people themselves and the sharing of their life of pov­erty for two months." 
That Lawrence quote is used as an introduction to the CILA project re­ports of the summer of 1970. Such reports have been compiled each fall for the past 10 years by Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who are mem­bers of CILA. The reports tell about two months spent in various sections of Latin America and the United States where poverty and poor educa­tion are the distinguishing charac­teristics. 
Dave does not find it easy to make a simple definitive statement about CILA's goals as an organization. He is not even sure of the exact number of members—about 150, he says. Every project is different and specific plans are often not decided until the volunteer has looked over his project a few days. "CILA is an idealistic organization," Dave says, "and for that reason very hard to define and talk about." 
It can be said though that CILA is made up of people who wish to make a positive expression of their concern for humanity. Dave explains: "Our idealism does not consist of the belief that we will make a big difference in the world. We realize it would be foolish even to think of that. The idealism lies in the belief that where a few volunteers work in Appalachia, East Harlem, or Mexico some good will result." 
"Some good" represents the volun-
Christopher Bale is a senior, major­ing in Communication Arts. 
teer's leap of faith that others be­sides themselves will benefit. Maureen Mauer, a senior at St. Mary's, spent her summer in Tacumbaro, Mexico. She and another St. Mary's senior, Mary Sheridan, spent their mornings from seven until noon working at an orphanage. "There were anywhere from 60 to 80 children in the orphan­age at one time and often 30 boys had to live in what was no more than a shack with five beds. As part of our work Mary and I would bathe children in the stone tub built into the ground outside the orphanage, but we could only change the water when it rained. And until CILA procured soap it was nonexistent in Tacumbaro. 
"I may not be able to give people 
a very satisfactory answer to the ques­
tion 'Why did you go down there?' 
or 'What did you accomplish?' But 
it is something I'll know was never 
a mistake to do. I could never regret 
going." 
CILA operates on funds received 
from alumni, alumni clubs, contribu­
tions sought by members from their 
home parishes and profits received 
through the sale of CILA Christmas 
cards and the campus "Mardi Gras" 
each February. This year St. Mary's 
student government made a $1,000 
contribution. 
The budget, which covers the cost of travel, building material, living ex­penses and medical supplies, usually ranges between $15,000 and $20,000, supporting about 60 people and 11 projects. 
Regarding the budget, Dave says, "We have to at least question the right of a group like CILA to spend so large a sum of money, especially when we are at times uncertain about the effect of our work on the projects. At times they can seem to have great significance only to the people who worked on them. Sometimes even they doubt the significance." 
Bob Hartman is a senior in pre­med and spent the summer after his sophomore year in Altamirano, Mex­ico. He and three other volunteers constructed lavaderos in which the women of the town could wash their clothes instead of hiking down to the river. He had questioned CILA's spending and is at peace with it. He believes that only limited results, in "tangible" terms, are possible from any project in eight weeks time. "But why," he asks, "must tangible results be the norm? The spiritual rewards, 'spiritual' meaning inner vitality and love of people, that come from a project are at least as rewarding and important as the material results." 
CILA projects are set up only where specifically requested and the volun­teers work closely with a local contact who knows the people of the area and their problems well. CILA volunteers make no universal claim to fluency in Spanish or special technical skills but all claim the willingness to learn and help, in any way they can, those who request it. One Columbian priest ad­mits he would prefer Columbian vol­unteers full or part time, but usually they are not available. Nor are skilled laborers or people who can stay longer than two months. Still he needs people and CILA is ready to accomplish whatever it can. Even though the vol­unteers sometimes express personal doubt about how much was left be­hind, CILA has always been asked to return. 
Actually, CILA projects are a cul­
tural exchange and the volunteer 
probably receives more from the ex­
perience since he lives in the new cul­
ture and that requires an alteration in 
his customs and habits. The people 
he helps encounter a new culture only 
through what they know about the 
volunteer, 
Patty Corrigan, an SMC junior, was one of three people working at the Gary Aldering Settlement House in the black sector of Gary, Ind. She found that a trip to Latin America was not necessary for cultural ex­change. "I was shocked when one of the boys told me his high school class was a good one since 15 to 20 went to college. I think from my high school class only 15 or 20 didn't go. . . . There were fatherless families of 12 living in two rooms. .. . I became somewhat involved with two girls who were half sisters and talked with their mother many times. She was having a terrible time disciplining them and they only rebelled under her demands and fought between themselves. In talking with them separately, I found that they were amazed to hear me tell them that your sister was special, someone to be close to, and deserving of extra love, an idea I grew up with. They could not comprehend that. Where did we get that idea anyway? 
"I know that I came away from that CILA project with much clearer and stronger convictions than I had before. When I first went to Gary I did not realize the extent of the prob­lems we would encounter nor the urgency of trying to get the problems solved. I know that I gained a new love and tolerance for people. 
"The settlement house is closed now and two of our boys are in jail. We realized that our brief stay would not make a big difference, but I am sure we helped at least one person to a better life and even that is enough to make it worthwhile." 
Maureen Mauer said, "The most important single thing on any project is not to make value judgments on the other's way of life. We did not at­tempt to change anything. The people were happy having fun with us — we would not have been as close to the people, and as accepted by them, say, if we tried to show them the 'correct' way to make tortillas." 
Dave Gomez mentioned a story on this point. "I tried to get the boys in Have, Peru, to start a youth club and right away they wanted me to be the first president. Our object is to work with the people and not for them." 
No CILA member fails to mention the fellow members he or she worked with on a particular project. Dropped 
suddenly into a new environment, a great deal depends upon the effective­ness of the small community the CILA group forms. The idea of community, the belief that people give the others in a group strength and happiness through love, is a vital part of Chris­tianity. CILA members are forced to come together in the face of real problems and have a special opportu­nity to experience this Christian ideal. In the project report for Altamirano in 1969, Chuck Amato wrote about his group's success: "There is no doubt about it; as disparate as our personalities are, we really were united, we really were one. Each in his unique way made sacrifices and contributions to the welfare of our own group of gringoes and that with whom we had even the most remote contact. There really was a reciproc­ity between the personal strength of 

each of us and that of our Mexican friends. What every person did, it seems is summed up in the word 'try.' There was a willingness and patience that went far in making things go as they did. There was a willingness to talk, to put up with idiosyncracies, to try completely new experiences. There was a patience based on a genuine awareness that the human condition is fragile, finite, mortal." 
Chances are that no great numbers of people will ever hear of Altami­rano, Have or the Gary Aldering Set­tlement House. And there is no doubt that the CILA volunteers received a great deal personally from their work. But no project is ever one-sided and in the places where CILA projects exist life is shared and the human condition is helped along. And that is neither woe nor vanity. 
Besponsibility 
by Richard fV. Conktin, 
Director, Information Service 
As four-letter words entered the lexi­con of the young, a fourteen-letter one fled. 
To be sure, the word "responsibil­ity" had suffered from abuse which hastened its fall into disrepute. It was verj' much a put-down word, mouthed by unimaginative parents and tired campus administrators to de­scribe a kind of behavior which owed more to conformity than to moral sensitivity. 
But when it disappeared from the vocabularly of young people, it signaled a strange philosophical out­look. In the analysis of the moral web in which human actions are emeshed very little of late has been left to individual accounting, and in the collegiate community ever>' sopho­

live and let live 
by Bill Mitcliell '71 
While often encumbered by rather careless articulations of both theology and politics, the moral fervor mus­tered by many Catholics in opposi­tion to liberalized abortion laws seems basically reflective of a profound con­cern for the primacy of life. 
They argue from the position that the unborn child's right to life must not be ignored by the State. 
It was hardly surprising, then, that so many Catholics raised such a loud and organized protest when New York and other states began legislating the matter with no effective regard for the fetus" right not to be killed. 
What is disturbing, if not entirely unexpected, is the relative silence with which these same Catholics have ac­cepted a recent Supreme Court ruling containing no effective regard for the individual's right not to kill. 
By an 8-1 margin, the Court decreed that the draft law cannot allow for the consciences of young men who oppose a particular war but do not oppose all wars. The Court was faced with the tension between personal con­science and political exigency, but its decision concerned itself with the nec­essary expedience of insuring the claims of the State over the conscience of the individual. Young men cannot be permitted to follow their con­sciences, it argued, because the mili­more, it seemed, had a star-crossed destiny from which even stay hall could not save him. 
If the honor code fades, for ex­ample, it is the University's insistence on grades, not the level of individual student honesty, which is culpable. 
If a student dies a senseless death in the wake of a campus sports cele­bration, the accident causes no reflec­tion on the tragedy which attends the quest for human maturity, only a mis­guided attempt to somehow fix the blame on the institution. 
The defense for printing an abor­tion advertisement skirts the crunch of coming to grips personally with complex moral issues and rests instead on the ad's legality, despite the irony that the editorial import of the pub­lication has been to decry the identi­fication of the Christian ethic with civil law, as in the case of compulsory conscription for unconscionable wars. 
The curious kind of moral agentry which ascribes good actions to in­
tary's right to conscript would be se­riously impaired. 
So much for those who hold to the traditional Catholic position of each individual deciding whether a war is just or unjust before participating in it. The Court's ruling is particularly unfortunate because, as United States District Court Judge Charles E. Wy­zanski, Jr., has pointed out, "When (a man) honestly believes that he will act wrongly if he kills, his claim (for exemption from fighting) obviously has great magnitude. That magnitude is not appreciably lessened if his belief relates not to war in general, but to a particular war. Indeed a selective con­scientious objector might reflect a more discriminating study of the prob­lem, a more sensitive conscience, and a deeper spiritual understanding." 
What the Court has done is to make it impossible for a Catholic to follow his conscience in accordance with the tradition of his Church—unless, of course, his conscience concludes that all wars fought by this nation are just. 
The Court has transferred moral sovereignty from the Church and the individual to the State. Some would argue that by making it impossible for a Catholic to oppose war according to Catholic tradition, the Court has tread rather heavily on Catholics' First Amendment rights to practice their religion without interference. 
But still not a word of objection from the protectors of individual, re­ligiously rooted rights of the fetus. 
dividuals and bad actions to causes lying outside their control is forever tempting, especially to the young, for whom the search for lost innocence is a rite of passage which transcends generational changes. 
There are, however, hopeful signs that senior members of the campus community are bringing the word "re­sponsibility" back into use. A recent Kerr-Camegie Commission on Higher Education report speaks both of rights and responsibilities of administration, faculty and students. At Stanford, the president has started elaborately safe­guard peer-judgment proceedings to remove a tenured faculty member charged with inciting to campus vio­lence. And at battle-scarred Colum­bia, the senate, goaded by a president with impeccable liberal credentials, has denounced disruptive activities which impede academic freedom. 
Perhaps students can be convinced that the word, rightly used, isn't so bad after all. 
Perhaps the reasons for their silence lie in the context of their discussion, i.e., rights. Moral or political posi­tions based on rights are particularly susceptible to what has been charac­terized as "selective morality." 
It is a style of polemic that is both understandable and regretable: under­standable because it can be forceful and at times necessary, regretable be­cause it can oversimplify the fine dis­tinctions and tensions that obtain in thoughtful political and moral discus­sion. 
For the sake of moral and political consistency, perhaps abortion oppo­nents should put aside their polemics and view abortion—as well as other moral questions—in terms of what seems to be their major concern: the primacy of life. 
The yield of such a vision might be considerably more compassion for the people whose dilemmas in life have concretized what remains only the­oretical for most of us. The intention would be not so much to suggest a particular stance on either abortion or selective objection; what is needed first is a basic moral consistency with roots in human compassion. 
It is only with that sort of con­sistency that we should seek an an­swer to the question that finally seems at stake: Just how much primacy does life have in a society in which the State is asked to permit the abortion of children and to legislate the denial of consciences? 
fSf" 
;*ss».—• 

">"X>'^ 
mt 
:'^^^y<v'y;:<^'?igigagji 
LaDii ot 
by Rev. Robert Griffin CSC 
The dilemma of drugs and human relationships at Notre Dame. 

Saturday at midnight seems to me to be the most perilous hour of the week for the munchkins tripping in the Land of Oz at this University. If horror hosts a plot to tangle living flesh with speeding steel on Notre Dame Avenue, then death is most apt to come as a midnight rider, and a weekend rider, at that. If violence flares up with a twist of knife among bones that live, it most often seems to be at the hour when only the twelfth stroke of the clock separates a seventh-day evening from the first in­stant of a Lord's day morning. If somewhere in a turned-on crowd, a mind dances the arabesques of terror to the off-beat tunes of a psychedelic ballet, it will most probably be as a ritual in a witches" sabbath when mid­night hags ride their broomsticks of fear across the skies arching the soul, until the Sunday holiness begins with daybreak. 
On a recent Saturday evening, when my imagination was wide awake with images as Gothic as those of any opening paragraph I have ever writ­ten, a friend named Rich approached me with introductions to a boy waiting outside my office door. Rich said of the boy. '"He's bumming." by which I understood him at first to mean that the lad was a hobo, down on his luck, wandering from a somewhere town to the neighborhoods of no place to go. Then I understood the boy was a traveler only in the mind; his trip was on drugs, and all of the vibrations were bad. 
For the next several hours. Rich and I and Jim McDermott. a worker in the Drug Information Center whom I summoned from the fourth floor of Keenan. offered the boy the therapy of conversation, in an attempt to talk him down from a condition that ap­proached a manic-depressive mood in­duced by mescaline. (The boy's sup­plier, thinking the mescaline to have gone stale, gave his protege in drugs a double dose of the crud. The re­actions were so severe that the boy supposed he was freaking out on L.S.D.) Eventually, I learned that two other students were undergoing sim­ilar distress, as partners in the same sale of mescaline, in another hall on campus. They finally appeared at Keenan, where friends gave them comfort and shelter for the rest of the night. 
Ordinarily, I would not view the happenings of a Saturday night as 
Reprinted with permission from The Observer, ND student newspaper. 
grist for the scribbler's mill except that, as a result (I suspect) of this incident, a reporter from one of the campus publications came to interview me as a University person with some expertise in the therapy for kicky drugs. I spoke to a well-mannered, intelligent cub reporter of my very limited kind of awareness of the events on the local drug scene, and I told him of my views, formulated as rector, toward the drug users in Keenan Hall. Afterwards, I said to myself, I do not distrust the young man who spoke with me; hopefully, he will go home, and with a ho-hum of disdain, he will burn his notes. But in the event that he doesn't, I thought to myself, my attitudes as rector are too important, at least to me, to rely for their report­ing on a very young man starting out in student journalism. Thus, this column. 
Of drugs themselves, let me say there is nothing I fear more unless it be the death of God, or my own damnation. Sometimes I wonder if damnation itself is not a bad trip to infinite depths, to where the soul is locked-in on itself to experience the eternal horror of its own being, emp­tied, by choice, of love and conse­quently creatured with loathsome and slimy things that crawl up from the night swamps of the doomed imagina­tion. Last year, after endlessly rap­ping with hall residents on the tedious subject of parietals, I rather suddenly became aware of the escalation in drug use on the premises of my be­loved Keenan. and I felt towards the parietal discussions like a dog to whom a meat bone has been tossed by a burglar making off with the family silver. I remember also, last year, zoning in on a kid, who seemed to exemplify, in his weight loss and in his saffron complexion, the deteriora­
tion that is traditionally, the "dope fiend's" lot. Ultimatums were leveled against the kid: stop! or phone calls will be made to Papa, and you can settle the problem together in the sub­urbs west of Chicago. But the kid would not promise to stop; he could not lie to me. he said. He chose instead to leave the hall, and his friends came as intermediaries. They said: there is already an up-tightness between this boy and his dad; the father would be powerless to touch his son's inner will. In the end I had to work out other terms with the boy; it seemed in no way desirable to dis­miss him to an off-campus room, where he could stone himself into madness. 
13 

My situation was like that of an­other dad I have heard about: he com­manded a child of his flesh named David. "Get a haircut, or get lost." David, feeling that a father's love should be based on contingencies more basic than a hair-style, opted to leave home. In tears, the father apologized to his son. shocked at his own near-deed of throwing away a child for a trifle. Drug use. I consider, is no trifle, but I refuse to let it alienate me from a kid who, at that point, may be most in need of my friendship. 
My attitude toward this boy is il­lustrative of my feelings toward all the members of the Keenan enclave. Obviously, one cannot condone the use of drugs, since, among other things, there are federal laws curtail­ing the operations of even such free 
spirits as the rector of Keenan. Of drug use. I am not. nor do I intend to be. permissive: I hate the practice with a passion more intense than even my love for God. or so it seems when I compare the intensity of my prayers with the revulsion I feel at the thought of L.S.D. But drugs are a problem too serious to be treated only as an upset to disciplinary schemes. In the sub-culture of today's youth, attitudes have developed that were undreamed of in my own formation as an adult human being. As a chaplain, I talk regularly with students who approach life with a different frame of reference, a different set of values, a different structure of premises, than my own; and if I have to deal with drug users. I must do so in such a way that they will not carry their practice under­
ground, where I will hear about a 
kid's drug-induced dilemma only after 
he has arrived at the state of being a 
mindless vegetable. 
There are two kinds of campus fa­cilities I will try to impose, when needed, on a drug user: (1) the Student Drug Information Center, founded by Tom Tollaksen after a germinal sug­gestion from me; and (2) Psycho­logical Services—and the suggestion is made not for the boy's punishment, but for his healing. If discipline is imposed, it must be as personally tailored, and as therapeutic, as a pen­ance given after sin. 
In my own experience. I have never seen a drug user with his inner niess­ups whom I have considered a source of contagion to his classmates. Even with the shabby chaps who sell drugs. 
I am tempted to deal gently. (Note the difference between a supplier, who claims to provide a marketplace for customers who wish his merchandise, and a pusher, who tries, I am told, to get his clients hooked into a drug de­pendency. I have never consciously met a pusher; I am on speaking terms with several who are suppliers.) Specu­latively, I can imagine the supplier as a creep with all the earmarks of a moral monster; in practice the sup­pliers I have met seem like regular chaps, though screwed up in some of their personal judgments and usually a little paranoid. None of them seemed sinister, and all of them seemed worth saving, whatever the word salvation may imply. 
In writing of my feelings about students who are using drugs, I speak of myself as a fallible creature who has tried to temper the wind to the shorn Iamb in order to keep that lamb from perishing. If I had done other­wise. I think to myself, frightened freshmen would not come banging on my door at midnight, and Saturday evenings would not be times when, once in a while. I feel much needed, because the demons of mischief are conspiring against the peace, happi­ness, and survival of the children in the land of the munchkins. 
i BflUicial Pflip 
Through the office of James T. Biirt­chacll CSC. provost, the University has issued its official position on drug traffic at Notre Dame. The statement was made after four students were arrested for selling drugs shortly be­fore Christmas. 
During the Christmas recess the Offi­cers of the University of Notre Dame deliberated at length and resolved upon a common policy with regard to various alleged drug sales. The fol­lowing memorandum was then drawn up and the Dean of Students was in­structed to act accordingly: 
"On December 17, 1970. four No­tre Dame undergraduates were ar­rested by local police and charged with the sale and possession of dan­gerous drugs. Their cases are to be tried in the State court. 
"University Rule 6 reads: 'Students may not use, possess, distribute, or offer for sale narcotics or dangerous drugs, including marijuana or any hallucinogenic agents.' The Univer­sity will not commence ordinary dis­ciplinary proceedings until the crim­inal charges are decided by the court. 
"On the other hand. University Dis­ciplinary Procedure III. D reads: 'In emergencies where the Dean of Stu­dents judges there to be imminent danger of serious harm to persons or to property, or serious obstruction of University life, he may summarily sus­pend or even e.xpel students. These measures shall be provisional, until the Appeals Board has considered the case without presumption of guilt and rendered a decision.' 
"In the present circumstances the University can and will make absolute­ly no judgment on the guilt or inno­cence of the students who face these charges. But the nature of the offense, distributing hard narcotics, is extreme­ly serious. There is no more 'immi­nent danger of serious harm to per­sons' on university campuses than the predatory sale of drugs. Consequently, pending resolution of the criminal charges, the University has decided that these students are to be pro­visionally suspended. Should they be found guilty, they will be forthwith expelled. Should they be found inno­cent, the University reserves the right to undertake its own regular disci­plinary proceedings. It should be em­phasized that this provisional and summary action is taken without pre­sumption of guilt, and may be re­viewed by the Appeals Board after conclusion of the criminal cases." 
Three of these cases are no longer under consideration by the civil court, and have received regular disposition by the University; one is still pending. But these events have raised larger issues which deserve some comment. 
The University administration re­gards the sale of harmful narcotics as a vicious and exploitative crime. The number of students whose physical and mental health and future careers have been destroyed by drugs is in­creasing. We are seriously and un­equivocally committed to the elimina­tion of drug traffic at Notre Dame, and will seek to impose the heaviest penalties upon those who are found guilty, according to our disciplinary procedures, of distributing drugs. There is no member of the University against whom we shall fail to take action when provided with satisfac­tory' evidence of guilt. 
A distinction is sometimes made between those who sell large quanti­ties of drugs for enormous profit, and those who casually distribute individ­ual doses. Yet most of the narcotics used on this campus apparently reach the user through this latter, more care­free transaction. Many students are inclined to excuse this as petty and harmless. The sellers, they observe, are not vicious persons. Sadly, how­ever, the damage they do is most vicious. It is a tragedy when a student is destroyed by narcotics. It is even more unfortunate when he is the vic­tim of a friend who meant him no harm. We cannot compound the mis­fortune by tolerating this often un­witting disaster. It is our policy that anyone who distributes any amount of dangerous drugs has no place at Notre Dame. 
The University has recourse to its most severe penalties only infrequently and with reluctance. The damage from narcotics is today so ominous that we would be irresponsible did we not use whatever remedies are pos­sible to eliminate those who prey upon their fellows. 
Hlnniiii Speak 
Alnii nd (Ms.. 
by Robert A. Erkins, President, 
Notre Dame Alumni Assoc. 
Since the February meeting of the Alumni Board an extensive effort has been made to ascertain alumni reac­tion to the concept of coeducation at Notre Dame as proposed in the Park-Mayhew Report. A summary of the report by two consultants engaged to study the institutions last fall appeared in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. Based on the views expressed by mem­bers of the Alumni Senate, and as the result of a number of alumni club meetings held nationally as well as in­dividual correspondence over the past two months, I presented to the mid-March meeting of the Executive Com­mittee of the Board of Trustees a re­port on general alumni attitudes re­garding coeducation. Here are the essentials of that report: 
There seems to be a generally posi­tive sentiment among ND Alumni re­garding the expansion of current co­educational efforts. As a whole, the more recently graduated ND men ap­pear more enthusiastic about this idea than do older alumni. To be sure, some in all age groups oppose the con­cept, just as some approve it. But, those opposing any change in the status quo on this matter appear to be in the minority. 
Some Alumni reject the concept of 
total absorption of St. Mary's, but a 
greater number seem to view this as 
a rather inevitable development. Most 
seemed to opt for the "separate and 
distinct entity" consideration put for­
ward by Park-Mayhew which would 
place St. Mary's as a college in the 
University of Notre Dame. 
By far, the matters of greatest con­
cern to alumni are co-educational 

• housing, and the ratio of male-female enrollment Most alumni seem to rec­ognize that if the two institutions were to commit themselves to a full pro­gram of coeducation, housing facili­ties for both sexes might be estab­lished on both campuses. However, they are strongly opposed to the pres­ent collegiate trend toward housing both sexes under one roof. In addi­tion, alumni expressed serious concern about the effect coeducation might have on the ratio of alumni sons en­rolled at ND. While it is obvious that alumni daughters would have the pos­sibility of enrolling, nevertheless a large number of alumni seem to place greater importance on their sons' po­tential admittance. 
As an ex-officio member of thefi 

Board of Trustees, I expressed these B 
thoughts to that body's Executive |s 
Committee, as well as the belief that % 
alumni would support a coeducational t 
program at ND through a unification ft 
with St. Mary's College. V 
As president of your Alumni Asso- i; ciation, it has become increasingly fi clear to me that not only has ND f been moving towards coeducation, J but in many ways it is already there, i In today's world, ND must continue | to educate and lead its young people ';. in the best manner possible. Young f men and women must learn to live ' with one another. Shouldn't they have ) the opportunity to learn together? ; Furthermore, if ND offers the type of J education that we feel it has offered ; over the years as a leading Catholic i university, shouldn't it offer this same educational opportunity to women? j As ND now goes, so will go Catholic | higher education in America. 
A union between two institutions with a common history and tradition for 125 years is natural. Both have been leaders in their own fields of education, and in recent years have combined many of their resources and interchanged students. It's an example of old friends becoming closer friends and moving forward together as an even greater Catholic university. 
...CntrlitiiK 
by James D. Cooney, 
Executive Director, Alumni Assoc. 
At a time when much of higher edu­cation is bemoaning an apparent dis­affection on the part of its graduates and friends, Notre Dame alumni con­tributed a near-record $2,120,249 to the 28th Annual Alumni Fund. The sum, contributed by 14,199 alumni, fell only $45,000 short of the all-time record established in 1966. In addi­tion, 10 honorary alumni contributed $522,646 which swelled the 1970 total to $2,642,896. 
The number of contributors repre­sented 46.1% of solicitable alumni (those actually contacted). The Class of 1954 led all others with 58.3% participation. Running a close second and third were the classes of 1953 (56.7%), and 1956 (55.9%). 
Thirty-two classes reported an in­crease in dollar amount contributed. Classes reporting increases in both dollar amount and number of con­tributors were 1911,1917,1918,1925, 1966 and 1969. Highest dollar 
amounts were achieved by the classes 
of 1955 ($344,909), 1954 ($113,567), 
and 1938 ($100,714). 
Viewed against a number of other 
factors the results of the 28th Annual 
Alumni Fund are all the more re­
markable .. . the 1970 economy put 
a crimp on many philanthropic in­
clinations; 1970 was not a year when 
the Federal Government went out of 
its way to encourage private philan­
thropy (witness the '69 Tax Reform 
Act effective in '70); it was not a year 
when calm pervaded college campuses 
. . . nor was ND immune from the 
national restlessness; and, it was not 
even a banner year in ND sports (a 
barometer some erroneously watch for 
collegiate giving trends) . . . remem­
ber the L.A. quagmire? 
So what was it that caused so many ND men to do so much? We'll buy faith and confidence in the direction of the University over other factors. ND alumni have realized, we believe, that this is a time when the University needs their encouragement, their sup­port, moral and material, and their allegiance as never before. And, in 1970 ND alumni accepted the call. 
As reported elsewhere in this issue, we're in the sunset stage of "SUMMA: Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge," the most ambitious and successful capital development program ever un­dertaken by the University. What of the future? Does it all end here? Un­likely. Unless somehow the University no longer requires the constant flow of unrestricted income which has been the Annual Alumni Fund for 28 years, and the foundation on which much of ND's growth has been launched. On the contrary, as Notre Dame con­tinues to develop as the world's lead­ing Catholic university, the demands on that traditionally steady stream of lifeblood support will mount. In short, as the development campaigns fade in the background, the University will rely more heavily than ever before on the Annual Fund. 
In the months to come, we'll begin listing the percentages of class par­ticipation in the Class column section as SUMMA draws to a close and the Annual Alumni Fund looms larger in ND's future. Alumni Fund support has always been a supreme act of confidence in Notre Dame. For, by their participation alumni say to the University not only "Here is my sup­port," but "Do with it as you see fit. Use it where most needed." It is this kind of trust which made us and our University unique. 
Class Agent 

1910 & before—Stephen H. Herr 1911—Col. R. Otto Probst 1912—Richard J. Monroe 1913—Fred Wiliams 1914—William J. Redden 1915—Albert A. Kuhle 1916—Patrick Maloney 1917—John E. Cassidy, Sr. 1918—John A. Lemmer 1919—Louis J. Finske 1920—John T. Balfe 1921—Raymond J. Schubmehl 1922—Frank B. Bloemer, Jr. 1923—Joseph F. Donaldson 1924—Harold W. Welch 1925—Henry C. Wurzer 1926—Malcolm F. Knaus 1927—William J. Corbett, Jr. 1928—William K. D^vyer 1929—Karl E. Martersteck 1930—John J. Elder 1931—^John F. Saunders 1932—Francis J. O'Malley 1933—Lucien S. Kempf 1934—Patrick J. Carroll 1935—Paul A. Fergus 1936—Francis L. Layden 1937—Robert M. Siegfried 1938—Leonard H. Skoglund, Jr. 1939—James N. Motschall 1940—Walter L. Fleming, Jr. 1941—William E. Cotter, Jr. 1942—Stephen Graliker C.L.U. 1943—Oliver H. Hunter III 1944—John W..\nhut 1945—^Joseph M. Haggar, Jr. 1946—Harry B. Surkamp 1947—^Joseph M. Byrne 1948—^James L. Ferstel 1949—Peter J. Kcman, Jr. 1950—Gus Cifelli 1951—Martin R. O'Connor 1952—William V. Cuddy 1953—Joseph Pagliari 1954—^Thomas J. Nessinger* 1955—Hallett G. Shelton* 1956—^John J. Fannon 1957—James A. Morse 1958—^Alfred J. Weinsheimer, Jr. 1959—Frank R. Reynolds, Jr. 1960—Jerry D. McGlynn 1961—Patrick J. Hart 1962^John C. Dearie 1963—Prof. Michael McCarthy 1964—David W. Ellis 1965—John J. Gearen* 1966—^Thomas J. Sullivan 1967—Patrick J. Nash 1968—James L. Smithberger 1969—^Thomas M. Breen 1970— 
Gift in Kind Notre Dame Clubs Total Honorary Alumni 
Grand Total 

Same as 1969 +Increase over 1969 —Decrease froin 1969 
•Tool Amount Number Number Class Con­of Con­Con­
•>!

tributed tributors Alumni tributing 
$ 2,850.00— 17— 68 25.0 579.00+ 8+ 20 40.0 8.492.94+ 5 21 23.8 545.00— 11— 29 37.9 875.00— 9— 36 25.0 1,145.00— 13— 32 40.6 33,481.30— 13— 31 38.7 60,299.58 + 23 + 48 47.9 36,095.00+ 20+ 41 48.7 4,872.14— 7— 34 20.5 9,043.00+ 20 50 40.0 7,543.00+ 23— 48 47.9 15,244.00— 42— 103 40.7 4,541.00— 43— 122 35.2 84,578.41 + 59— 130 45.3 14,423.51 + 89+ 182 48.9 29,478.08— 71— 158 44.9 66,975.00+ 100— 253 39.5 21,341.44— 166— 311 53.3 19,509.09— 131— 326 40.1 36.298.00 + 167— 340 49.1 48,953.17— 160+ 354 45.1 27,391.14— 161— 367 43.8 28,230.47 + 171— 400 42.7 33,357.79— 167— 420 39.7 40,158.39+ 169— 408 39.2 61,823.83+ 126— 332 37.9 45,741.05+ 116— 336 34.5 100,714.53 + 160— 398 40.2 22,057.63— 172— 412 41.7 47,310.75— 216— 489 44.1 20,999.76— 197— 440 44.7 19,368.45— 186— 442 42.0 23,709.62— 196— 454 43.1 41,976.97— 215— 472 45.5 25,670.00+ 129— 273 47.2 11,084.60+ 100— 240 41.6 15,453.96— 217— 518 41.8 34,039.10— 381— 802 47.5 61,537.81 + 524— 1,037 50.5 39,763.95 + 437— 880 49.6 65,162.18+ 371— 678 54.7 34,573.51— 441— 819 53.8 43,531.17+ 427— 753 56.7 113,567.74— 435— 746 58.3 344,909.44+ 400 755 52.9 29,762.62— 458 818 55.9 25,198.16+ 464— 893 51.9 26,814.50— 506+ 950 53.2 23,228.70— 495— 929 53.2 21,623.85+ 485— 927 52.3 19,360.05 + 463— 892 51.9 17,362.50+ 486— 973 49.9 15,705.37 + 447— 1,018 43.9 16,802.90+ 517— 1,073 48.1 16,506.02+ 565— 1,058 53.4 12,611.64+ 507+ 1,037 48.8 10,684.55— 430— 1,076 39.9 10.008,27 + 419— 1,136 36.8 8,247.52+ 392+ 1,265 30.9 3,472.29 204 1,161 17.5 
13,879.05 26 39,685.00 24 2,120,249.49 522,646.68 10 
$2,642,896.17 14,199 30,814 46.1 
•1965
 Most Contributors *1955 Largest Amount 

•1954
 Largest % of Class Contributors 



CTP 
[n 

He listens to student problems, by Dan Roth '71 
It's never easy to find a blind date for an ugly girl, but you can come up with one if you know where to look. Not long ago a Notre Dame student almost had a weekend visit with his hometown girl ruined when her best friend decided to come along. The girl was spectacularly unattractive but the situation was not beyond hope. The sign in the Huddle said: GOT A PROBLEM . . . CALL THE OM­BUDSMAN . . . WE'LL LISTEN. In this particular case the Ombuds­man did more than listen—he took the blind date and helped one ND student out of a tough spot. 
Dan Hyde, a junior from LaCrosse, Wis., is the head of Student Govern­ment's Ombudsman service, and he likes his job. "Mostly we handle the day-to-day problems of student life around here. In a way, I think that's an advantage because it's the little things that really seem to bug every­body the most." 
Many of these minor irritations aren't even directly related to the University. But no matter what the nature of the problem, the Ombuds­man is willing to see what he can do: "I lost my football ticket. Is there anything you can do?" "Where can I get a tutor for calculus?" "I'm 6 feet 7 inches tall and I need a longer bed." "I got this package of cheese from home, and I don't know if it's safe to eat." "Is a jai alai ball made out of ivory or rubber?" "The roast beef at the dining hall made me sick. What can I do?" Such are the minor crises which stream into the Ombuds­man office. Usually, this sort of call can be handled with little or no trouble. 
Many of the calls that come into the Ombudsman office are more se­rious and more difficult. Red tape is an inherent evil in any institution of the size of Notre Dame. Occasionally, students start to get strangled with that red tape and when they do they call the Ombudsman service for help. "Usually we're able to get some con­crete results," says Hyde. "At the very least we can refer the caller to 
. someone who can take care of the complaint." 
tfMMoUDQ^I 
One student had $92 worth of his personal belongings destroyed when 
the radiator in his room exploded. The campus security office investigated and verified all of the student's claims. But the University insurance office somehow decided that the University was not responsible and refused to pay the claim. The student took the case to the Ombudsman service, and the Ombudsman service took it to Father Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice president. Business Affairs. One phone call and a few quick letters and the student had his $92. 
Of the more than 200 calls that came into the Ombudsman's office this semester few presented problems that the Ombudsman hasn't been able to deal with. About the only area where the Ombudsman is unable to help is in academic problems. The Univer­sity's policy on academic freedom is such that the professor has a free reign in his marking policies. It is next to impossible for anyone to in­tervene on the student's behalf. 
The Ombudsman's record is a good one, but Hyde admits that it could be better. "Right now our biggest problem is publicity," says Hyde. "We act as sort of a middleman in most of our operations. But too often the people on each end have only a hazy idea of what the Ombudsman is. Not enough students know that we're here. We've advertised more this year and our volume of calls has just about doubled. But it still isn't enough. And of course not all of the people we have to contact are familiar with us either. That can make things a little more difficult. Ordinarily we have no trouble at all getting cooperation, but if the administration could Send out word to the various departments about 
who we are and just what we're up to 
it could help out." 
Hyde feels that the very structure of the Ombudsman service is a limita­tion, too. "As long as the Ombuds­man is a service of student govern­ment and not a service of the Univer­sity itself we will have no official power and no real leverage. Ideally, the Ombudsman would be a full-time, salaried position, as independent as possible from the administration, faculty, and students. He could then act as a personal contact for the com­plaints of all University members. He may even be able to mediate in those difficult student-teacher relations." 
Exfterimental programs structured along these lines are now being used with great success at the University of Chicago and the University of Cin­cinnati. Following the lead of these schools, Notre Dame's Student Life Council in March of 1970 passed a resolution endorsing the concept of the University Ombudsman and urg­ing that its feasibility be investigated. As of now it is still under study, but its implementation here at Notre Dame seems unlikely due to the per­ennial lack of funds. 
Imperfect as it may be, it seems as though the present system of Om­budsman service is the one which Notre Dame will have to be satisfied with. Whatever its shortcomings the Ombudsman is without a doubt a healthy influence. A student at Notre Dame can never honestly say that he has nowhere else to turn. If he has a phone, he has a friend. It's like the sign says: GOT A PROBLEM . . . CALL THE OMBUDSMAN . . . WE'LL LISTEN. 
Oiass •otes 
50-YEAR CLUB 
JAMES D. COONEY '59, Alumni Secre­tary, and TIM J. HUGHES '61 are endeavoring to really "put over" this year's reunion. Especially are they working hard to have the 50-Year Club members present. Extraordinary help comes from ALBERT A. KUHLE '15, GROVER 
F. MILLER '16, DAN E. HILGARTNER JR. '17, THEODORE C. RADEMAKER '19, JAMES H. RYAN '20 and the Jubilee Class Secretary, DAN W. DUFFY '21. 
JOSEPH E. POULIN '04 was senior member present last year. Also there were STEPHEN H. HERR CE'IO, Rev. "CON" HAGERTY CSC AB '06 and RICHARD 
J. MONROE '12. Great if WILLIAM 
G. FERSTEL BSCom.'OO and Loretta make it this year. Also JAMES R. DEVITT EE'13 and Helen. The last Ume JOSEPH M. WALSH EE'14 returned was for his Golden Jubilee. Joe wrote, "These reunions are unforgettable." Hope he makes it this year. LEO S. ZGAD­ZINSKI Ph.B.'14 expects to return again this year. 
Looking forward to seeing EDWARD J. STORY EE'U and getting all the "dope" from Ed about a k City, Okla. 
The RED CARPET is out awaiting your return to NOTRE DAME. If YOU are there it's got to be an unforgettable reunion. 
"GOOD LORD WILLING" see you in June. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood NE Chicago, III. 60647 '15 GREAT-GRANDPARENTS 
A very pleasant note came from HAROLD MADDEN LL.D.'15 with the cheerful news that "we have joined the great-grandparent class—three times, and more on the way." Indeed it would be a pleasure to visit Harold and his family in Cincinnati—who knows, I might have that good fortune someday. I doubt that I have seen Harold since a day in June, 1915. 
Following is a verse on a valentine sent to me by HENRY J. FRAWLEY Sr. '15. "We've been friends from the day we met. But I've seldom stopped to say, how much I appreciate the friendship you have brought my way. So I chose this card to say thank you. And I hope I'll always be the kind of wonderful friend to you, that you have been to me." Hank must have shopped around to find this card for as they say, "It hit the nail on the head." Our feelings are mutual. Hank. 
His good wife Anne added this note: "We're having a blizzard and a real winter which started in November. HANK JR. '60 and hired man are out feeding cattle in this storm." As I have reported previously, the Frawleys, Hank '15 and Hank Jr. '60 operate a 5,000-acre ranch in Western South Dakota with headquarters near Spearfish, S.D. 
Chicago papers some time ago carried a story with this headline—"Urge Notre Dame, St. Mary's Merger." The report recommended that after the merger the official name should be St. Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame. The January-February ALUMNUS quotes extensively this report. 
I recently heard from RAY HOYER '24, a good friend and former associate who gives evidence of being the most active man of his age I know. Ray was on the teaching staff at ND from 1924 to 1940. For some years now he has been a resident of St. Anne Retirement Home, 1900 Randalia, Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805. Among his many activities there, he is editor of Anne-A. Grams, a publication published monthly for the residents at the home; is chairman of the Residents Council; and acts as master of ceremonies at all the many occasions, social and otherwise. I am sure he must derive much personal satisfaction from these most 
MAYHEM REVISITED 
Notre Dame alumni can now obtain personal copies of the official 1971 Cotton Bowl Highlights film, Mayhem Revisited. Produced by Film Associates, Inc., the 16-mm film is narrated by Lindsey Nelson. Ev Warren, the ND athletic department director of cine­matology, said of the film: "It's the finest highlights film both in color and content we have received in the last 10 years. It is a perfect example of how well a football film can be put together and is worth twice the asking price." 
The film is being offered at $225 per copy. Address inquiries to Mr. Robert Friedman, Executive Producer, Film Associates, Inc., 
P.O. Box 936, Clarksdale, Miss. 38614. 
worthwhile activities. More power to you, 
Ray, and may the good Lord grant you 
good health and happiness in the 
years ahead. 
Only recently I met a very ideasant fellow-alumnus in the person of Dr. JOHN N. HACKETT '55 who is engaged in surgery and diseases of the eye with offices here in LaGrange, HI. at 507 So. LaGrange Rd. I have no doubt he will be remembered by many of his classmates. 
It was indeed a pleasant surprise to again 
meet Rev. Andrew Foley, the son of 
ANDREW E FOLEY LLS.'IO. who 
resides at 505 First Ave., S.E., Watertown, 
S.D. The occasion was at a reception for visiting relatives and friends in the Armory at Salem, S.D. Fr. Foley is stationed in the diocese of Sioux Falls, S.D., and is a member of the diocesan senate. 
LEO C. SCHEIBELHUT '07 passed away Jan. 30, 1971. He died at the Dor-A-Lin Nursing Home after an extended illness. He was bom.in South Bend on Aug. 3, 1890, and was a lifetime resident He was a retired real estate and insurance broker. He is survived by his widow Dorothy, who resides at 1608 
N. Adams St, South Bend, Ind. 46628, and by two sons, JOHN H. '52 of Quebec and RICHARD C. '55 of Chicago; two daughters, Mrs. A. B. Paterson and Mrs. John Brothers, both of South Bend; a brother, Edward of Niles, Mich.; two sisters, Mrs. Paul Peaden of Mishawaka, Ind. and Mrs. Thomas Goetzinger of South Bend, and 12 grandchildren. Mr. Scheibel­hut was a WW I veteran, a member of Council 553 Knights of Columbus, and a member of Holy Cross parish and a member of the St. Joseph Valley ND Qub. 
I also regret the passing of another alumnus, THOMAS F. HOWLEY Jr. '11, on Oct 9, 1970. He was bom in Wheeling, June 3, 1888. He was a veteran of WWI, serving overseas. He was in the real estate business, connected with the Security National Bank, although at the time of his retirement in 1952 was with the federal govenunent in the Area Rent Control Office. He was a member of Blessed Trinity Church, the men's club of the church, third and fourth degree member of the Carroll Council K. of C member of American Legion Post No. 1. Surviving are his widow, Mrs. Zita Clark Howley; two sons, Lt Com. Thomas F. Hondey, 
U.S. Navy, Long Beach, Calif., and Gerard H. Howley, Canton, Wo ; a daughter, Mrs. Joseph R. (Kathleen) Zimla, Wheeling, and five grandchildren. The funeral mass of the resurrection was said at St Josei^'s Cathedral with Most Rev. Bishop Joseph H. Hodges, Rev. John J. Allison and Rev. Cesidio J. Federico concelebrating. -Interment in Mt Calvary Cemetery. Mrs. Zita C. Howley resides at 429 No. Huron St, Wheeling, W.Va. 26003. 
I must report the death of another alumnus, CHARLES J. BAAB '00. He is survived by members of his family who reside at 90 Samboume Ave., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 18702. 
Joe Theismann '71, ND quarterback, was the guest speaker at our Holy Name Breakfast at St Francis Xavier parish, Feb. 14. It was a father-son aifair. Needless to say several hundred youngsters kept Joe busy with questions. 
Albert A. Kuhle LaGrange, HI. 
'16 PLAN FOR 55th 

The Class of '16 is 55 years graduated! 
Make plans now to attend our Reunion, 
June 10-13, Thursday to Sunday. 

There are about 40 of us alive, so let's 
join with classes before us for a last 

roundup. Please drop me a line saying 
you plan to attend. 
Grover F. Miller 
1208 S. Main St. 
Racine, Wis. 53403 
'17 CLASS ANALYSIS 

During the past three or four yeare we have tried to stimulate more active interest in our news column with every artifice, contest and device, and even have appealed to the gals to tell what the old man is doing, or the grandchildren. 
We recently consulted a psychology professor, presently on the faculty, and he came up with the following analysis of the 61 living "ITers. 
About 50 per cent have lost interest in their school or in their classmates, or are engaged in physical, financial or marital problems. As a result, he claims they do not even read the news column. 
Maybe 25 per cent skim through to see if their name is in it or the name of a classmate they know and then toss it aside. They represent the silent majority. 
Around 15 per cent read the column 

regularly but do not have or take the time 
to suggest or criticize. Most do not like 
the stuff and are in favor of a new 
Secretary. So are we. 

But only 10 per cent also read the column regularly AND write to tell what they have been doing or what they have heard about their classmates. Any comment, please. 
HOW GOOD IS YOUR MEMORY? Who was HuUie and Mike? Where was Jimmy and Goals? Who was Furry-Wuzzy and how did he or she get that nickname? Where was Hagedoms' and what did they dispense? Who was Harry Poulin? Where was his shop and what did he sell? What was the name of the red-haired girl who was on the LaSalle Hotel cigar stand for so many years? Where was the pie house? What was the Philadelphia? What was the fare on the Hill Street car? 3c, 5c or lOc? Did it have round or square wheels? What was the name of the tavern on North Eddy SL, near the campus, where you could get a goblet of port wine for a dune? That's right, ten cents. If you can answer half of these questions, the Secretary will buy your lunch at the Morris Inn the next time you are on the campus. If you can answer all of them you win a pair of football tickets. Answers will be supplied to any '17ers upon request Winners to be announced in the next issue. Please remember the soul of BILL DRAPER '07 in your prayers, who passed away in June of 1970. He was one of our early and great track and football athletes, and a loyal alumnus, who was active for many years in the Chicago Club. He is survived by a daughter. MIS. Mary Draper Neil, Six Robin Hood 
Lane, Northfield, III. 60093, who would 
like to hear from anyone who knew him. 
Mary is a wonderful person like her father. 
Who knows the fate of any of these 
characters that were in Brownson Hall 
about 1914? Or if you are still around, 
please tell us how you made your first 
million. 
Bill Bemet, Pete Carroll, Woolsley 
Garvey, Ducky Halmes, Wild Jim McCar­
thy, Cocky O'Malley, Mike Morrisey, 
Louie Rose, Nick Ryan and Dawson 
Abshire, who should be at the top of 
this "WANTED" list. 
A holiday call from HUGHIE O'NEILL 
in Cleveland told that he and Corinne 
are both happy and well, and by this 
time are probably in their winter home in 
Pompano Beach, Fla., where he frequently 
sees CHARLEY BACHMAN, who also 
lives there at 11 Sunset Lane. What 
a romantic address. 
The colony of '17ers in Arizona is 
growing. The VOLLs go out to Scottsdale 
every winter to get away from it all 
and CARLETON BEH also has a home 
in this popular suburb of Phoenix. JOHN 
URBAN RILEY left Maine and stopped 
off for several days on the campus on his 
way to the 2M dude ranch, near Nogales. 
The SHERWOOD DIXONs have joined the 
crowd at Tucson, and for a bit of levity, 
whatever happened (that old familiar 
phrase) to a student in Brownson named 
Gleason from Flagstaff, who celebrated for 
a week when Arizona was admitted to 
statehood in 1912 or thereabouts? 
And who is the grandfather of the first 
new great-grandson this year? Last 
fall we sent out a call for humorous 
stories about Brother Flo who was boss 
of St. Joe Hall for so many years, and the 
only response was a beautiful letter from 
JOHNNY REYNOLDS singing his praises 
and giving his real name as Florence 
Rynn. If JIM SANFORD and GENE 
KANE, both head waiters and "right 
arms" of Flo were still with us, they could 
provide a lot of laughs; at least a zillion. 

We are holding this column open as long as we can with the hope that we may hear about some holiday parties or vacations or a story from a happy grandmother as we also suggested but the pen must be dry or the ribbon chewed up on the good old Royal or is it an Underwood? 
HARRY F. KELLY, governor of Michigan during WWII, and who retired recently as a member of the state Supreme Court, died Feb. 8 from a massive stroke in Florida. Funeral services were conducted in Detroit. Please pray for the repose of the soul of our classmate. 
Dan E. Hilgartner, Jr. 
1701 Turtle Creek Dr. N. South Bend, Ind. 46637 
'18 NOTES AND GREETINGS 
Ordination Day—June 10. REV. CHARLES 
J. WILLIAMS '18, St. Malachy Rectory, 311 E. Grove Ave., Rantoul, III. 61866. Fr. Williams followed his doctor's advice to vacation in Phoenix and hoped to get in some golf. 
BIRTHDAY GREETINGS: May 1 GEORGE D. HALLER '19, 11030 Hubbard, Livonia, Mich. 48150; May 4, Rt. Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS OTT '18, 4540 E. Cerrito, San Diego, Calif. 92115; May 10, RICHARD J. MONROE '12, 845 Irving Park Rd., Chicago, 111. 60613; May 24, ­Rev. GEORGE L. HOLDERITH CSC l;" AB, MA '18, University Infirmary, Notre •<' Dame, Ind. 46556; May 24, HARRY C. C BAUJAN PhBC '18, 2069 Rustic Rd., Dayton, Ohio; May 28, DANIEL E. HIL-; GARTNER PhB '17, 1701 TurUe Creek ,V Dr., N., South Bend, Ind. 46637; June 13, Dr. EDWARD J. REYNOLDS BS PhG i '18, 487 Highland Ave., Maiden, Mass. ": 02148; June 16, LAMBERT Q. SENG '18, 7334 Ridge Blvd., Chicago, 111. 60645; June 19, LEO P. GAUSS '18, 5740 
E. 10th, Indianapolis, Ind. 46219; June '••• 29, ALBERT S. OSULLIVAN LLB '18, 513 Warren Ave., Belvidere, 111. 61008, and June 30, GEORGE F. FRANTZ LLB t '17, 720 8th St., Fennimore, Wis. 53809. 
WEDDING ANNIVERSARY: June 7, 
JAMES P. LOGAN PhB '18, 2951 S. 
Fillmore Way, Denver, Colo. 80210; June 1, 
PETER J. RONCHETTI ChE '18, 1242 
Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex. 78404; 
June 1, Dr. EDWARD J. REYNOLDS 
BS PhG '18, 497 Highland Ave., Maiden. 
Mass. 02148; June 5, GEORGE F. FRANTZ 
LLB '17, 720 8th St., Fennimore, Wis. 
53809; June 16, RAY C. WHIPPLE 
LLB '18, 373 Western Ave., Joliet, 111. 
60435; June 20, ALLAN W. FRITZSCHE 
'18, 575 Washington Ave., Elyria, Ohio 
44035, and June 25, GEORGE E. HAR­
BERT LLB '18, 3521 15th St. Court, 
Rock Island, 111. 61201. 
From Phoenix, Ariz.: "Sunshine and dry 
weather enjoyed. Many Rantoul people 
here. Best to 50-year group."—Rev. 
CHARLES J. WILLIAMS '18. 
WAKATIPU, N.Z.: "Here's what an old in years, but young in spirit, guy does when there is nothing else to do. This is a 44-day South Pacific tour in 38 different airplanes. The going's great. Back in St. Louis in March."—RALPH 
W. BERGMAN LLB '20. 
WILLIAM E. BRADBURY LLB '16, I 
am pleased to report, is back at office— 
afternoons. Bill has a murder case 
that'll keep him busy. 
DANIEL E. HILGARTNER JR. PhB '17. Thanks for clipping about WILLIAM BREEN McDONALD '18 and Lucille celebrating Golden Wedding Anniversary. Seventy at party with seven of nine grandchildren. Missing was son William B. Jr. killed in action in WWII. Daughter Mary Rapp took charge of party. Breen writes: "Lucille is well, 1 am over the hill, but still getting around and able to handle my share of that stuff they bottle over in Scotland." Hope they make June reunion. May they both live to be 100. 
Thanks to Rev. Cornelius J. Hagerty CSC '06 for his booklet, "Truths Necessary for Salvation"; to JOHN T. BALFE Ph.BC '20 for his "Open Letter" and to JOHN 
E. CASSIDY Sr. LLB '17 for his note. 
Card from MORRIE STARRETT stating no hope for making June reunion. I'll bet you a "cookie" MIKE NIGRO '17 will be there. Doc is on the go all over the country, as his news letter reports. 
Remember as a 50-year member this is YOUR reunion year. If YOU make this June reunion it will be the BEST EVER. Morris Inn and the Red Carpet await your arrival. NEXT YEAR who knows. May you live to 100. 
PEACE. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, 111. 60647 
'20 ADDRESS CHANGES 
JOSEPH H. SILK has returned to his home city of Joliet, 111., from Hyattsville, Md., and we welcome him home. 
Rev. WILLIAM H. REEVES' new ad­dress is 8665 Olive St., St. Louis, Mo. 63132, formerly 5513 Oriole Ave., St. Louis. I believe JOHN T. BALFE is in the warm climate of Arizona but is terribly upset by his letter to members of the Board of Trustees of ND who Father Hesburgh said is ultimately responsible for its affairs. You may have received from John his open letter asking what is happening to religion at ND. If you have not received his letters and would ask him, I am sure he will tell you his disturbing story. He is faithfully fulfilling the thought of one thousand ND alumni. 
It would add interest to members of our Class of 1920 if our vice-presidents, SHERWOOD DIXON, EDWARD DORAN, HUMPHREY LESLIE, JOHN WARD and DEWEY ROSENTHAL would solicit their friends for information to pass on. Any bit of information from class members would be of interest. 1 find in reading our 1920 Dome a great deal of interest in recalling our activity 50 years ago at ND and I recommend that others would pick it up to recall it. For example, ED DORAN was president of the 1920 Law Class. CLIFF O'SULLIVAN, HUMPHREY LESLIE and MAURICE SMITH were his fellow officers and all, today, are very active, vigorous individuals anticipating our next reunion. The officers of our senior class, TOM BEACOM as president, with OSCAR SIDENFADEN, THOMAS WALTERS and LEO WARD as fellow officers each can well be remembered though they have passed on. 
We all took part in the fun and activity of our early and youthful days and reading the Dome today would recall those happy days. 
James H. Ryan 2470 East Ave., Apt. 314 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610 
•21 REUNION LETTERS 
Received the following letter from Judge NORMAN C. BARRY: Enjoyed your letter, and also the one RAY SCHUBMEHL wrote to you. Elizabeth is very happy that you are including the wives and wants me to assure you, God willing, we will both be there (at the Reunion on June 11, 12, 13). Let me know if I should send a deposit for the room or whatever expense a deposit would be required for. 
Mrs. AL SCHMITT of 421 Mercer Avenue, Decatur, Ind., wrote this: I'm writing this letter for my husband, AI Schmitt. Sorry it was not written long ago. About 10 years ago AI had a stroke and has not worked since then. For some time his right side was paralyzed, this has improved some but he drags his right leg quite badly. He is able to take care of himself during the day and prepare his lunch as I am working as bookkeeper at our Catholic school and do not get home. He likes to get out in the car when I can take him, but has not driven since his stroke and goes no place except in the car. Consequently, he would not be able to attend the reunion. Al sends his regards to all his friends. 
JAMES F. GLOVER of 19 Murray Street, New Britain, Conn., sent his card in and will not be able to attend the reunion. 
Dan W. Duffy Leader Bldg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
'22 SAD NEWS 
RICHARD W. McCARTY of Canton, Ohio, died March 4, 1970 in the House of Loreto of that city, where he had been a patient for five years following the death of his wife, Austine Shoof McCarty. Richard was born and reared in Lynn, Mass. But he was fond of his adopted city of Canton, and he had a legion of friends there. While a patient in the House of Loreto, he was on the staff of the House periodical, and he made many literary contributions to the same. Richard never lost his love for New England and the sod. Burial was in Canton. His only survivors are three nephews and two nieces, so please let us not forget Richard in our prayers. 
We deeply regret to announce one more death of a classmate in 1970, and the same was reported to your Secretary by JAMES S. FAREN JR. of Harper Woods, Mich., who had the very sad duty to tell us of the sudden death of his close personal friend and classmate WALTER J. MATTHES of 15845 Ashton, Detroit, Mich. 48223, on Sept. 19. Another close friend of the deceased is JACK. HIGGINS of Birmingham, Mich., who was visiting Europe with Mrs. Higgins when death came to Walter Matthes. For most of his business career, Walt worked as an archi­tect, and was an excellent one. Also, for several years, he operated a construction company for building of homes. The de­ceased is survived by his widow, Olga, and a son and daughter—both married. 
The Class of '22 over the years has been blessed with many eminent physicians and surgeons, most of whom have practiced in the midwest. A very notable exception to the area rule was Dr. KELVIN 
A. KASPER who spent his years of medical study in Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, Pa., after completing his premedics at ND. His whole professional career was spent in the Philadelphia area until his death in Jefferson Hospital on Jan. 10. Dr. Kasper was a tear-duct surgeon. For a quarter of a century, he was chief of Otolaryngology of Wills Eye Hospital until he retired one year ago. He was a professor at Jefferson Medical College, and was on the staffs of four Philadelphia area hospitals. The Kasper home address is 1111 Hagys Ford Rd., Narberth, Pa. Our sympathy and prayers go to Kelvin's widow, the former Anna Britt. The EDWARD BAlLEYs and DAN YOUNGs were great friends of the deceased. 
EDWARD J. GOTTRY died in his adopted city of New York on Jan. 28, where for more than 20 years he was an employee of the Division of Employment in the State Labor Department, and prior to retirement in 1969 was a case specialist of the State Health Planning Commission. Eddie was a' native of Rochester, N.Y. He was the last surviving son of Samuel Gottry, founder and head of the old Sam Gottry Carting Co. He attended the Rochester Catholic High School at the same time as did George Fischer, Joseph Tierney, and your class secretary. Before going to New York City, he worked in a Rochester Specialty Shop, B. F. Farman Co., and was a faculty member of Boys Town, Neb. The funeral Mass was in the Sacred Heart Cathedral, Rochester, on Feb. I, and Fr. GEORGE B. FISCHER, CSC, a close friend of long standing, was the Mass celebrant Eddie is survived by his sister, Charlotte, Mrs. George A. Gardiner, of 52 Phelps Ave., Rochester, N.Y., to whom we extend our loving sympathy. Your class secretary attended the funeral Mass. 
Congratulations and best wishes to the GEORGE KERVERs of Cleveland for acquiring a great-grandson, and the very same to the EDWARD BAILEYs of Philadelphia. Latter report 39 grandchildren. 
We are delighted to report that Mrs. Daniel (Loretta) Young of Drexel Hill, Pa., had a successful operation at SL Mary's Hospital, Mayo Bros., Rochester, Minn., recently, and that HEARTLY (Hunk) ANDERSON had two successful surgeries at St. Mary's Hospital, West Palm Beach, Fla. 
Gerald (Kid) Ashe 
175 Landing Road, N. 
Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
'23 TIME MARCHES ON 
Romance Revisited . . . Once upon a time part of a honeymoon was spent with a baseball club training in St. Petersburg. The bride is still young and beautifuL The city is also blooming. Then it was the Yankees. Now it is the Mets. Then the report was to a New York newspaper. Now to the ALUMNUS. 
Time Marches On . . . And never so fast as to people approaching a Golden Anniversary. All of a sudden it is only two years away. We are off to a good start in planning. ED KREiMER has a timely word of caution: Expenses become more of a factor to people already in or about to enter retirement; especially for those far from the campus. 
Reunion Preview .. . I have suggested to Prez RED SHEA that we schedule a meeting at the June Reunions this year to consider the financial aspect and review other suggestions already made. This should not be too much of a problem for the officers. I try to make it every year and so does Red. Judge JOE NYIKOS lives in South Bend and Kreimer is nearby in Fort Wayne. We will welcome attendance from any others who can make iL . . . It will be a simple procedure. We will get together for our own dinner Friday evening. Committees will be appointed to follow through on approved plans. The major details are already decided. We and our ladies will be quartered at the Morris Inn and will be featured during the '73 Reum'ons. 
Sports and Games Research Collection... 
Possibly because we have been touring for several weeks, the mail has been meager. In this case no news is always good news; and I will take advantage of the opportunity to change hats and plug the INTERNATIONAL SPORTS AND GAMES RESEARCH COLLECTION about which you have heard from time to time. Many members of our class are involved; and the attention of all alumni is sought If anybody from any class is interested in the project and nobody has contacted you, please write me and you will be enrolled. I am repeating 
parts of a letter mailed this week to 275 

members of City and Category Committees: 
"Responses graiifying . . . We are oper­
ating or developing satisfactorily in 
Chicago, Detroit, Notre Dame, South 

Bend, Boston, Dallas, Baltimore, Rochester, 
N.Y., Dayton, \Vheeling, Canton, Charles­
ton, W.Va. Cleveland, Pittsburgh, San 
Francisco and other major cities need 
cultivation but there is no real problem 

here; nor in the various Categories where 
we have top people awaiting instructions. 
"Meanwhile, back at the ranch . . . 

VICTOR SCHAEFER and CHET GRANT will be processing two helpful mailings: 
1) A report from HARVEY FOSTER on how they do it at our Chicago flagship (Harvey is vice-president of American Airlines); 2) A cross-section of the im­pressive acquisitions already catalogued at the Library. 

"Goals . . . Obviously we are on our way to the 'Fifty Chicagos' needed to convince professionally interested corporations, foundations and individuals that we are really building something significant and worthy of their support: THE world­wide center of sports and games culture We need an executive director. We can dare hope for a self-supporting organization and our own building. . . . How soon and how fast will depend on the dedication and communication of the men in the field and the Library. 
"Thanks everybody for everything. I can almost guarantee that you will find detecting and collecting a rewarding, fascinating hobby. . . . And please send further inquiries to Victor Schaefer, Director of Special CoHeetions, Memorial Library, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556." 
Francis Wallace 4615 Guernsey Bellaire, Ohio 43906 

'24 NOMINATIONS SUBMITTED 
The slate of nominations submitted by the chairman of the elections committee, ED CANTWELL, via the official party headquarters, is: President, GENE MAYL and JIM SWIFT; Vice President, LES FOLEY and TIM MURPHY; Treasurer, EARLE HURLEY and JIM HURLEY (they want to keep jt in the family apparently); Secretary, JIM DURCAN (no contest)—I report this blushingly "as submitted," and thereby give our referee and clerk of elections, the Hon. TOM DONOVAN, his first opportunity to investigate suspicious election procedures. Nominations are open . . . five or more members can sign an application to nominate additional candidates. Mail balloting is scheduled to Ed Cantwell for July 1, 1971. 
Our next general interest topic is the 1974 Reunion, our 50th. We will be quartered at the Morris Inn on Campus. Some are already choosing roommates. Others who think they cannot safely wait for that great occasion are now readying for their Annual Reunion this year, our 47th . . . Wow! Is it really 47 years since we went forth knowing all there was to know and ready to dispense our knowledge to the waiting world? 
One of the most interesting letters in our recent abundance comes from TED BULLARD, 37510 Lakeville Dr., Mt. Clemens, Mich. 48043. On USCG Auxiliary letterhead (he is current 9th Dis­trict Staff Officer) he reports, "I have 
completely lost track of old friends . . . 
in student days I was in exile living 
in the old Library with roommates BOB 
GLASSCOTT LL.B.'24 and WALTER 
SHILTS '22 . . . to make ends meet, I 
worked at Clark's Cafeteria in Badin Hall 
. . . after leaving school went with 
Cadillac Division of GM Service & Sales 
. . . later with Cho'sler as Service 
& Parts Director for Export-Import 
Division . . . much domestic and foreign 
travel, over a million miles . . . retired in 
1967 after 31 years with Chrysler. 
Avocation is boating . . . wife, Ethel and I 
cruise the Great Lakes in our Cruiser 
SEAFORTH III . . . be wonderful to hear 
from any of those who remember me." 
From kitchen white-hat and apron to a 
yacht and admiral's uniform is not bad, 
Ted. See you in '74 . . . too bad South 
Bend doesn't border on the Great Lakes. 
JIM SWIFT supplies more Walter Winchell stories. Earle and May Hurley and JOE and Amelia BLACHE visited him in Dallas. Joe was on the wagon; Earle apparently was not. About 2 a.m. the Swifts heard a heavy thump from their guest room. . . . Earle had fallen out of bed. May, who wore pearl-studded ear plugs for bedroom noise control of Earle's stentorian snoring, slept through the ensuing commotion when her hosts rushed to the room to see what happened. Jim included another nostalgic report from CHARLES O. DEBARRY, A.I.A., 222 East 46, N.Y.C. 10017. He wrote Jim, "When I attended the five-year Reunion there was a man who had not been back for 50 years. I thought he was awful old. I guess I'll be around for the 50th , . . had a tracheotomy to compensate for three packs of Camels a day .. . am now learning to talk again. I should be in shape by '74." 
JOHN GOTUACO, LEVI GENIESSE, HAROLD WELCH, Ed Cantwell and their wives had a fine visit last fall during the Purdue-ND game. John is here from his home in Manila, with United Nations Delegation. (I remember John as always smiling. .. . I presume he continued after graduation and it resulted in his current noteworthy international position in UN.) John and wife Aggie have three sons, all graduates of ND. 
Left out of previous issues for lack of space: from MATT ROTHERT . . . "This Christmas we will have our entire family with us which includes my eldest daughter, her husband and two children, Mr. and Mrs. James Nelson. He is with Boise-Cascade Corp. in DeRidder, La. My eldest son, Matthew, and his wife and son live in Camden, NJ. He is associated with me in Camden Furniture Company. My youngest daughter, Hope, and her husband. Bob Taft from Sprinsfield, III., and youngest son, Paul, now at graduate school at Indiana U., completes the family." It also probably clarifies the road for President Eisenhower to get that bill signed "IN GOD WE TRUST." And more from Jim Swift about PAT BUELL who missed the Cotton Bowl game because of the flu; Matt Rothert who visits the Dallas Furniture Mart; GENE and Helen MAYL who went to the SMU game in 1949 where Gene returned home with the wrong topcoat but the right gloves and FARRELL JOHNSTON now claims immunity because of statute of limitations; and notes about LES FOLEY, BILL CROOK, ARDO REICHERT, TOM HODGSON —all for later publicaUon 
for lack of space. Jim, you may get some 
hush money if you keep this up. 
Remember in your prayers THOMAS A. 
REARDON (Monogram) died Jan. 3, 
I97I, father of THOMAS JR. '61 and 
KEVIN '69. Mass was said at ND by Rev. 
WILLIAM TOOHEY CSC on Jan. 10. 
Also belatedly report the death of JOE 
GREEN who died Aug. 25, 1957. Mass was 
said for him at ND on Jan. 24, 1971. 
Odds & Ends: Did you realize that the 
ALUMNUS was bom in 1922 in the midst 
of our tenure? WHODUNIT? BOB 
ERKINS '45, president of the Alumni 
Association, was recently back at ND for 
the official Annual Meeting of Alumni 
Board. They discussed the opinions of 
alumni on matters of current importance in 
the University today' and tomorrow. Bob 
owns and operates the Thousand Springs 
Trout Farms, Inc. (World's Largest), 
Box 232, Buhl, Idaho 83316. Living in 
adjacent Oregon as I do, we know that the 
original pioneers passed right through his 
area without stopping. It is still virgin 
country. We hope it means that our alumni 
president has retained many traditional 
concepts to blend with the contemporary 
views to keep a balance in the direction 
of ND's future. As Jim Swift puts it: 
What really matters is that we are proud 
of our class and our Notre Dame, and 
the half-century reunion will be a rich 
and rewarding experience for those of us 
who, by the grace of God, are able 
to make it. Count me in — in the flesh 
if possible and otherwise in spirit. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 SW SchoUs Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 JOINS RETIREES 
BERNARD (Ben) G. KES^HNG joined the ranks of many of his classmates when he retired Jan. 30. He was our county engineer for a total of 22 years. After graduation Ben's first job was inspector for Pennsylvania State Highway for two years, then for four years he was engineer for Division 2 of Ohio State Highway Department. From '33 to '45 he was Lucas county engineer. He resigned to work for Comte Construction (Church and Commercial building). "I wanted to see if I fit into private industry." He stayed for 17 years and went back to county engineer from '62 until his retirement this year. "I'm leaving early so I can enjoy my retirement," says Ben. His auto license has been N25D for years. He plans to do a littlle golfing, but informed associates that he expects to be busy as assistant operation director at 527 Holly Dr. (his home). 
The list is growing of '25ers moving to Florida and other sunny spots. GEORGE LAUGHLIN has moved to 303 N. Riverside Dr., Pompano Beach, Fla. and GORDON WALKER to Daytona Beach, Ha., P.O. Box 3712 Penn St. 
A short note from RAY DECOURCEY, 412 N. 12th, Rochelle, III., asking for JOHN MAHON's Cleveland address, which I sent to Ray. He wrote, "John's the only other one left of an old Cadillac Hall card-playing group including WILLARD and HERB JONES, DAVE MURPHY, AL FOOS, CLARENCE BUNCE and PAUL FRY." 
If some of you haven't sent HANK WURZER a Class Mass fund donation, his address is 419 Union Arcade Bldg., 
Davenport, Iowa 52801. 
John P. Hurley 
2085 Brookdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'28 TOMMY RODGERS DIES 
BILL DOWDALL advised me of the death of THOMAS RODGERS in Buffalo on Feb. 15 after a long illness. Tommy had retired in 1969 after 34 years as sales manager of the Penn-Dixie Cement Corp. Bill Dowdall and Dorothy represented the class at the wake and visited with Tommy's wife and his two sons who are ND graduates. Tommy attended our '28 class cocktail party in 1958. Our sympathy is extended to BOB BANNON on the sudden death of his brother PAT who was a corrector for me when I taught at ND. 1 enjoyed seeing Bob and Pat at our '28 cocktail party at ND a few months ago. 
MIKE HOGAN was hospitalized in Fort Wayne following a heart attack. Mike is recovering aided by visits from FRANK McCARTHY, BERNIE SCHUH and WAYNE BUSHMAN. GENE FARRELL reports that GEORGE COURY is coming along well after a long period of recovery from a heart attack.. 
ALBION GRIFFIN retired from Bethlehem Steel after 36 years, where he was manager of patents. Al and Margie are living at 231 E. Market St., Bethlehem, Pa. 18018. They expect to spend the summers at their home at Orleans, Mass. on Cape Cod. Al recalled with pleasure our 1968 reunion which was his first in 30 years. BOB HAMILTON will retire from Pan American Airlines in May and Bob Bannon in June from Newark College of Engineering where he has taught metallurgy for many years. Bob is a widower. I regret that in my recent news­letter I passed along an erroneous report on ED BRENNAN who has NOT retired, but continues with the Burlington Mills. RAY MOCK retired after 20 years at SL Thomas College as director of financial aid and placement. He is now executive secretary of the Midwest College Assn. with headquarters in St. Paul. 
Travel reports indicate that Bill Dowdall will visit Iceland, England and Ireland in May. The Dowdalls enjoyed their South African trip last year. I read an interesting article by Lois Fegan, a by-line used by Gene Farrell's wife, in Editor and Publisher for Jan. 23, 1971, in which she describes being aboard the Queen Elizabeth II with Gene when that ship went to pick up survivors of the burning French liner in the Grenadines in January. It looks as if Gene and his wife had an exciting West Indies trip. Another '28 newsman and traveler, DICK GREENE and Mildred, enjoyed their trip to Japan, Manila, and Hawaii. Dick is still working as columnist and editorial writer in Muncie, Ind. Incidentally, Dick is a fellow class secretary, serving in that capacity for his high school class. 
District Court Judge BILL JONES attended a meeting in Chicago in February of the committee appointed by Chief Justice Burger to oversee financial and out-of-court activities of federal judges. After speaking before a Bar Assn. group in California, he expects to attend the American Bar Assn. meeting in London, July 14-20. No doubt many classmates will be attending that London meeting. Why not arrange a '28 class luncheon in London? 
Father JIM McSHANE SJ wrote from SL Louis about an enjoyable luncheon session he had with CARROLL PINKLEY. Father Jim's radio station in Progresso, Honduras, started to broadcast on Nov. 15. Many '28 men have been interested in this project of Jim's. JERRY DeCLERCQ of Royai Oaks, Mich., has completed 42 years with Standard Brands. Jerry reports that his daughter is "still a nun" and his wife continues to teach physical education in Shrine High School. 
BERNIE GARBER and LARRY CUL­LINEY called me from New York when they were having a session together. It was also great to have calls from AL MAHER from New York and RAY LUSSON, Chicago, inquiring about the '28 get-together in Florida. I hope to have a report on that affair in my next column. PAT CANNY wrote from Florida that he was there recovering from the Cotton Bowl game. I talked to FRANK CREADON and HOWIE PHALIN on their return from the Cotton Bowl. 
Fr. MARK FITZGERALD participated in the funeral services for my mother-in­law in Mishawaka in February. He also attended a meeting of the Chicago Chapter of the Industrial Relations Research Assn. at which I gave a report on the findings of my study on unemploy­ment in Chicago which was issued recently. 
Remember when you order your football tickets to plan to attend the '28 cocktail party at JOE DORAN's home near Lafayette following the Purdue game and the annual '28 party at ND after the Michigan State game on Oct. 2. JIM ALLEN called my attention to an error I made in the '28 column in the last ALUMNUS on the date for the Michigan State game. It is Oct. 2. 
ED FINN died on Jan. 19 in Arvada, Colo., following two strokes. He sold his retail clothing business in 1961 and worked part time since then as a bailiff for the County Court in Salida. Ed returned for our 25th and 30th reunions. VINCE CARNEY visited him a year ago and found him very interested in his '28 classmates. Ed's wife died in 1969. He is survived by a son and a daughter, Mrs. Jerry Jelinck, 11347 W. 69th Place, Arvada, Colo. 80002, who thoughtfully advised me of Ed's death. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Shen"dan Rd. Chicago, m. 60626 
'29 BARTHOLOMEWS EV NEWS 
Lt. Comdr. THOMAS C. BARTHOLO­
MEW USN, B.S.M.E.'58, son of Dr. PAUL and Agnes BARTHOLOMEW '29, professor of government at Notre Dame, was pilot of one of the helicopters carrying the frogmen at the Apollo 14 recovery on Feb. 9 in the South Pacific. Tom received his commission through NROTC. The extended practice required for such a pickup may not be generally known. After considerable practice at San Diego the group left there the first week in January, stopped in Hawaii for additional maneuvers and then proceeded to their assigned station. The whole event is somewhat remindful of Coach Par­seghian's preparations for a game—nothing left to chance that could be anticipated. 
Tom now resides in Bonita, Calif., with his wife and two children. 
Professor Paul continues to be news­worthy in his own light. He was coordinator and one of the principal lecturers at the Philippine Constitution deliberations in Manila in December. His analysis 
Significant. Decisions of the Supreme Court 1969-70 Term was published by the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research; he will do a similar account for the 1970-71 term. He also is the author of a two-volume pubUcation, 
Ruling American Constitutioiml Law, 
published last year. 
PETE MORGAN has accepted a five-year term as executive director of the Mercer County (NJ.) Park Commission and has resigned as cross-country and track and field coach at Princeton. Pete was a trackman at ND but also played the trumpet in concert orchestra and band. 
The mention of bands leads me to ask, "Were you one of the TV-viewers fortunate enough to see the im"d-February shows of Merv Griffin, especially those featuring song writers and band leaders?" Only those who have been privileged to hear the rendiaons of IRV CORCORAN, TONY KOPECKY, FRED WAGNER, RON SCHLAGER, JIM TOBIN, Fr. MALONEY and fellow vocalists have recently heard anything more completely enjoyable. On its own merits and because of the memories recalled it was a rare treat especially to the creative and musicaUy oriented 79ers like JOE KEEFE, JACK FARR, TOM LAWLESS, LEO REES, BOB BRACKEL, FRANKLYN DOAN, JOHN HINKLE, JERRY CROWLEY, MARK WONDERLIN, TOM FERRITER, HARLEY McDEVITT, ED LEACH, to mention only a few. We could add a supplementary list of "Monogram Absurdity" artists, composers, chorus girls, etc., who collaborated with Director Tommy Mills—and no doubt have their own recollections. 
ED LEACH, formerly of Grand Rapids, now resides at 245A High Point Blvd., Boynton Beach, Fla. 33435. LOUIS F. NIEZER has been reappointed to the board of park commissioners by Mayor Harold 
S. Zeiz of Fort Wayne, Ind. Niezer, chairman of the board of the Tokheim Corp., was first named to the park board in 1961. 
DONALD S. BALDWIN died Feb. 17 at St. Elizabeth Hospital, Danville, III., where he had been a patient 16 days. He was senior member of the law firm of Acton, Baldwin, Bookwalter and Meyer in Danville. Rev. C. B. MOTSETT '31, pastor of St. Paul Catholic Church, Danville, officiated at the funeral. He was past president of the Vermillion County Bar Association. His sister, Miss Eleanor Baldwin, resides at 16 West Conron St., Danville. We, in the name of the class, wish to express our sympathy and the promise of prayers. 
Fr. DOREMUS CSC, now 88 years of age, is still going strong. Fr. GLUECKERT CSC, Fr. GEORGE HOLDERITH CSC and Fr. RAYMOND MURRAY CSC are examples for all of us. Why not write them a short letter? 
Where would you like to meet your '29 classmates and friends after the Michigan State game Oct. 2? The Alumni Office has for the past five games provided a cash bar and marked areas for all classes as for example "Classes '25 to '30," in the track portion of the Athletic and Convoca­tion Center. Would you prefer to 
substitute this facility for that of our past 
10 years? For those who wish a meal 
they have provided this service in the 
Monogram Room on the second floor. 

Six home games have been scheduled, if 
you and your classmates, who decide to 

attend games besides Michigan State, will 
go to the area designated you will have 
the opportunity to meet and visit. With 
time and additional publicity more are 
expected to avail themselves of this 
opportunity. 
Order tickets early. Please write your 
reaction now to my questions. 
Larry F. Stauder 
Enpneering Bldg. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'30 N.Y. HEARD FROM 

TOM BRADLEY sent us from New York 
a very comprehensive report on 
1930 people: 
"Random Items from the Eastern 
Seaboard, Metropolitan New York Area: 
It was edifying to read the coverage in 
the ALUMNUS of Fr. McAuIiffe's Holy 
Cross Association program. Wrote to 

Father requesting enrollment in the Golden 
Treasury of Prayers of all departed 
members of the Class of '30: TOM 
MOYNIHAN, JOHN REDGATE, 
JOHNNY LAW, TOM CUNNINGHAM, 
JACK CANNON, JOE LORDI, TOM 

MURPHY, FRANK DAILEY, JIM FRIEL, 
LARRY CRONIN and BERNIE CONROY 
came to mind. 

Spent a delightful evening with DOUG DALEY, CHUCK GRUNING and FRANK SOWA last month when the ND Club here honored Fr. John J. Cavanaugh at a reception and dinner (sell-out crowd) held in the Advertising Club. Father John excelled in his discourse on "Notre Dame—Past and Present," stressing the underlying need.of moral responsibility in all intellectual pursuits, reminiscent indeed of Cardinal Newman's classic thesis on The Idea of a University. Doug now heads up operations for the Cuneo Press in the East (his son, John, enters ND in the fall) and is a leading candidate for the NY Club Board of Directors; Chuck keeps busy helping his boss. Utility Tycoon ED DUFFY, to brighten up things in the Long Island area; Frank, our only Ph.D., is ecologically active in the field of air pollution abate­ment and environmental protection in Fun City. 
TIM O'ROURKE came from behind during the regular season for epidemics to beat a virus attack to be up and about his chores as public administrator of the Surrogate in Queens County. ART McCANN, too, spends long hours in the courts of Bronx County, but strictly as a condemnation' specialist of industrial properties. HOWIE SMITH reports Milt Piepul came in from New England to visit at ML St. Michael school where Howie has directed the athletic activities for more than a generation producing top­flight football and baseball teams with enviable records. Incidentally, HOWIE JR. '65, is sports editor of the Yonkers Herald-Statesman. At season's end, BILL CAMPBELL, Subway Alumni prexy, launched a plan to throw a testimonial dinner for Joe Theismann in South River, NJ. Bill's idea was espoused by the home-town K of C Club and the gala 
event came olT last week in style worthy of the best college quarterback of recent years. MIKE BISHKO and ART DENNEHY were among the many at the Kickoff Meeting to hear ED KRAUSE, JOHNNY DEE and NBA Commissioner WALTER KENNEDY deUver a State of the University Message (Athletic Division) at the Statler-Hilton. FRANK LEAHY and DON MILLER were greeted by PR Man FRED JOYCE on their arrival here last month at the Waldorf to be formally enshrined into the National Football Foundation Hall of Fame as all-time gridiron greats. In addition, members of the Monogram Club paid a tribute to Frank at Toots Shor's oasis. Walter Kennedy was there for the occasion and is quoted thus by a local columnist: "—on the eve of Frank's induction into the Hall of Fame, a group of his former Fighting Irish players came from all over the country at their own expense to honor their old coach. As a long-time friend of Frank's and a former tub-thumper at Notre Dame, I was invited to the gathering in one of the upstairs rooms at Tools', and on arrival I found the joint was packed. There were AIl-Americans and Heisman Trophy winners all over the place—LEON HART, JOHNNY LUJACK, GEORGE CONNOR, JOHNNY LATTNER, BERNIE CRIM­MINS, CREIGHTON MILLER and scores of others. It was one of the most warm and sincere tributes to a man I've ever witnessed in sports. 
"Just heard from Joe Friel that TOM KENNEALLY was hospitalized recently. No reportable details as yet. . . . The ND Club invites all '30 grads to its 1971 Annual Retreat at St. Ignatius Retreat House in Manhasset, L.I., April 29 through May 2. The Rev. Robert I. Gannon SJ will be the Retreat Master. .. . As for your correspondent, I'm still assisting Gov. Rockefeller in stabilizing the job market hereabouts." 
JOHN V. MORAN has been promoted to associate director of the Office of Labor-Management and Welfare-Pension Reports in the U.S. Department of Labor. MARTIN TRAVERS, president of Security National Bank, Buffalo, N.Y., has been elected treasurer and director of the Bankers Association. He is active in many civic and professional organizations. 
The Class of 1930 will be saddened to learn of the death of EDWARD F. LAVIN of Olyphant, Pa. 
Class President TIM TOOMEY sent this message via satellite: 
"Those who get advance copies of the ALUMNUS have informed me you are hoping to surprise your readers in some future issue with a state of the Union message from me. Here it is—'Don't forget to write. Be sure to enclose money.' 
"In my recent wanderings which have included a week's visit to Washington on business for the Labor Department, I had a fine chat with JOHN V. MORAN, a transplanted Bay Stater on the Potomac scene. The call gave me an opportunity to extend to J. VINCENT good wishes on his recent promotion in the Labor Manage­ment Division of the Labor Department. 
"I also had an opportunity to call the Rev. JIM RIZER at St. Elizabeth's parish in Richmond, Va. Father Jim wants all ND classmates and others to contact him whenever he can assist. News from the Midwest brought word that JIM MULVANEY is relocating in SomerviUe, NJ., after 26 years in Chicago with an afiSliate of the Singer Co. DON SULLI­VAN, busy construction magnate from Northampton, Mass., was able to aid me recently by furnishing some very helpful information on a personal matter. Today at the annual Communion Breakfast of the ND Club of Boston I was able to meet and greet many old friends including CHARLEY COLTON '31, JIM SKAHAN '30'/i, and JACK SAUNDERS '31. A large gathering greeted Fr. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL, Provost of the University and JOHNNY MAZUR '40, the new coach of Bay State Patriots. 
"Now would appear to be the time to suggest the idea of a 1930 class party following one of the home games come next fall. Have the local ground crew select a game and reserve a gathering place and for a modest fee and some support from the Chicago liquor stores and the home cooking of the local auxiliary branch of 1930 class, we might be able to come up with a right nice after-gamo clambake. Let me know the local reaction. 
"At the communion breakfast today we heard Fr. LEN COLLINS has been grounded with a heart attack. Bring me up to date on this and assure him of the prayers of all '30 men. 
"With that I'll sign off in true Gaelic fashion 'Live in my heart and pay no rent.'" 
Devere T. Plunkett O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'31 PLAN FOR 35th 
By now you should have received information on our 35th Reunion and made plans to be on campus June 11 or earlier if possible. Our local class committee consisting of CLARENCE FUTTER, JERRY CROWLEY, DAN CLARK and JOHN MclNTYRE have been meeting with ML^E JORDAN on necessary arrangements for the '31 group. We will be located in Stanford Hall using the newer north end of the campus. If you remember previous reunions, refreshments of all kinds will be provided on the usual contributory basis. 
NICK BOHLING won his fifth term as alderman in the Seventh Ward although the vote was a bit tight this time. Nick has been a very fine alderman and responsible for many recreational projects sorely needed in his area. He has also been very active in the legislature as a liaison man on bills necessary to Chicago. I am sure we can get everything firsthand from him in June. LEO GODOY, who was here at Christmas, mentioned that LEO GARLAND'S son died unexpectedly in December. Leo received his master's degree from Columbia and now is working on his Ph.D. TOM GOLDEN sent a note from Veterans Hospital, Fayetteville, Ark., where he has been undergoing treatment for Parkinson's disease. He had success with L dopa treatment and felt cured, but had to return for additional treatment in January. A frequent visitor to Tom is Tom Horan who lived in Carroll and Morrissey Halls in 1927 and 1928. Tom got his E-E. degree from Purdue and is now a professor at U. of Arkansas. ART KANE who lives nearby in Baxter Springs, Kan., is publicity director at Empire Electric Co., Joplin, Mo., also 
2i 

visits Tom regularly. Tom may not make the Reunion, but sends warmest wishes to all classmates. For those who want to write, his home address is Pierce City, Mo. 65723. Word was received from the University on the death of ALBERT (Pete) COWLES B.S.-3I, who lived in Newark, 
N.J. I remember Al well. Both of us waited on the head table in the west dining hall where all the hungry seniors of 1931 from Sorin Hall were always scrounging goodies from us. On one occasion 1 almost lost my job as Fr. Steiner caught me feeding WALT CAHILL at the first table. AUSTIN BOYLE, 1829 Magnolia Lane, Munster, Ind., has been named vice pres. in charge of public relations for the First National Bank of East Chicago, Ind. Congratulations, Austin. FRANK HOLLAND phoned recently to say he and PHIL ANGSTEN will arrive on campus June 10 to start the Monogram Golf Tournament. Frank heard from JACK KUHN, who will also be there. Frank also announced that he expects to become a father for the second time in April and that he will bring cigars for all. 
From Fr. C. BOURKE MOTSETT, Danville, 111.: "Sorry to inform you that GENE HOWREY '32 who was the long­distance runner on the track team in our time, died in Crawfordsville, Ind., Feb. 9. I hope everything is going well for you and please remember me to your good wife. Things are still going well here and we are plugging along trying to keep Schlarman High School and our parochial schools open. Thank God, due to the generosity and cooperation of our people, they will never close while I am here. I hope to see you at our 40th Reunion in June." If Bourke will be with us in June, 1 think it appropriate that he celebrate our Class Mass in memory of all deceased classmates. RAY COLLINS and his wife Gert returned from a trip to Hawaii. He must have had a busy time as no postcard arrived. AT&T has announced substantially lower long-distance rates which are dialed directly. This is a wonderful opportunity to get on the phone and call your campus friends about plans for June. This does not mean that 
1 want one certain person to call me at 2 a.m. like I received calls on our post-game cocktail parties of the past two years. 
I hope to see many of you in June and hope that this will be one of the most successful reunions of our class. Further details will be forthcoming direct from the Alumni Office. In the meantime say a prayer for our deceased classmates. 
James T. Doyle 1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, 111. 60201 
'32 OUR 0\VN O'MALLEY 
I was reading the Fall issue of Insight and particularly liked the article "Student journal" by Jim Holsinger '73. In it he says "My four-thirty class is the reward for a day's labor. Professor Frank O'Malley for Philosophy of Literature. He's a beautiful man, full of wisdom, beauty and truth, and devoid of the academic hangups about tests and 'test material.' The artist (says O'Malley) must draw on something deeper than his consciousness. This source cannot be tapped at will, but will respond only to the correct stimuli." And that is our own FRANK O'MALLEY '32. How about that! 
I don't know how I goofed but I just found a postcard from PAUL A. HOWE I received last October. Paul says he has "retired to this island paradise to enjoy beachcombing. Nothing to do but collect seashells, fish, swim, drink a little and enjoy looking at bathing beauties. The place is teeming with wildlife and absolutely lacks air or water pollution, hippies, violence or other trappings of civilization. Extend my invitation to visit at any time." Paul is at Box 766, Sanibel Island Causeway, Sanibel Island, Fla. 33957. Thanks for the invitation, Paul. Some of us may take you up. 
Okay, fellows, let's start thinking about June 1972. It won't be long. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Road Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 IN EXOTIC LOCALES 
PAT CROWLEY, the only Laetare medalist in our class, was kind enough to send me the "Crowley Family Newsletter," Christmas 1970 edition. In his paper were pictures of the Crowley clan from Chicago's Hancock Building to more exotic locales such as Taiwan, Tokyo, Korea and Australia. These travels are taken by our classmate and his lovely wife on behalf of the International Con­federation of the Christian Family Movements. Pat and Patty are interested in the role of the family in society and dream of setting up an effective center for family research and development. They are the founders and promoters of the great Christian Family Movement (CFM). 
JOHN "Red" BARRETT saw RAY NABER and DOUG GIORGIO at the LSU game. Did you make the Cotton Bowl, Red? EDMUND A. STEPHAN, chairman of the Board of Trustees at ND received the Daniel A. Lord Award at the Loyola Academy President's Dinner, Nov. 6, at the Palmer House, Chicago. The award is given annually for distinguished service to youth. As I mentioned in previous reports, I saw Ed both at the Purdue and Georgia Tech weekends. He is an extremely busy and energetic worker on behalf of our University. CHARLES M. DOUGHERTY '27 sent me additional information on our late classmate, ROBERT J. FLINT. Bob reached the rank of lieutenant commander in WWII, served as district attorney of Potter County, Pa., 1952-54, and was elected to the Pennsylvania House of Representatives in 1954. Charlie, who had served as the commonwealth's secretary of revenue, was a great friend of Bob and attended many Irish and ND functions with him while they resided in our state capital, Harris­
burg, Pa. 
KARL VOGHLHEIM was the only classmate who wrote that it was his intention to attend the Cotton Bowl. In a brief letter, he revealed his plan to desert the frigid shores of Rogers City, Mich., to not only visit his son in Houston but to see the game. I watched the tube to view the Irish in their glorious win but failed to observe Karl or others of our class. Fr. JIM DONNELLY wrote that he had been ill, so I presume he didn't make it from Copperas Cove, Texas 76522. In a Christmas message PETE CONNELLY asked to be remembered to his old pals, NORM GREENEY and JACK NEU­BAUER. THOMAS "Kitty" GORMAN sent regards to all and particularly to his fellow center, JOSH D'AMORA '35. Kitty is adjusting well to his retirement and would appreciate mail to 1419 W. Daytona. Dr., Peoria, lU. 61614. 
PAT MURPHY always comes through with an inspiring Christmas message. This year he outdid past years with the story of a wonderful trip to the land of his birth, Ireland. When he returned to Dublin he was amazed by the warm hospitality, the laughter and the genuine affection. Our genial Irish classmate even had the privilege of showing his family the cottage where he was born and the cathedral wherein he was christened. The letter was so warm and glowing that I felt as though 1 were with the Murphys in the Emerald Isle. For an encore, Pat and his wife flew to Denver for a week to attend the ASME convention. 
Although his beautiful wife writes that VINCE BURKE is getting "too old" to attend all these football games, 1 don't believe it, Mary! In every mail I get a notice of new partners being accepted into Vince's thriving Pittsburgh law firm. God bless you both and save your strength for the '73 reunion. BILL CAMPBELL, president of the N.Y. Subway Alumni, saw GEORGE ROHRS and JACK HOYT at the NYC dinner for Fr. JOHN CAVANAUGH on Dec. 7. Ever since ND beat UCLA in basketball, I've been awaiting a West Coast missive from CHARLES "Fritz" HAFRON. Before the victory, he sent a Christmas greeting and did write about the debacle at Southern Cal. He mentioned he tried to find me among the ND fans of Philadel­phia, a local subway group who sat out that rainy day. Chuck continued that he saw JACK CARBERRY, KEVIN O'SHEA, BILL SHERMAN, MIKE HARTNETT and even JOE KUHARICH but, alas, none from the '33 vintage. He was particularly upset that his old friend. Judge MOE LEE, did not call him during the Elks 
convention in San Francisco. 
Speaking of the Judge, 1 had a phone call from his brother, Capt. ROBERT E. LEE, USN, '32, who is stationed at the Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, Fla. Bob intends to live in that city after retirement this year and will be there to welcome us as we travel to Miami for the game irt the Orange Bowl on Oct. 9, 1971. Maybe we'll be back on Jan. I, 1972. Bob was kind enough to send regards to my son, Lt. Martin E. Conley, a Navy flier stationed at Nha Be', Vietnam. Classmate Hafron also sent a newspaper clipping of the death by traffic accident of ED­WARD W. BEAHM, 202 W. Angela, South Bend, late in 1970. Ed, according to Chuck, started with us in '29. 
To set the record and the proofreader straight, it was "Old Fitz," not Old Fritz, in which I toasted the Irish victories. If I didn't make the correction the distillery might revoke my credit card and SAM HYDE would be looking all over New York City for the wrong brand. Slainte! 
Charies A. Conley 100 East Tumbull Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 STAY-AT-HOMES 
This report is being written on Feb. 27. I 
CoHgrais 
Dea Zeiller Bates 
Solon Bulger Shirk 
John H. Dea '30 has been appointed general manager for lubricating oil products in the International Sales Department of Texaco Inc. He will be located in New York. He joined Texaco in 1937 as an indus­trial salesman in the Minneapolis division. Since 1959 he has served in various managerial positions in the sales department. 
Gerard J. ZeiUer '37 is now commissioner of health and welfare for the state of New Hampshire. Zeiller, who retired after 27 years of federal service in 1969, has been operating a land development and real estate business in the Lebanon-Hanover area of New Hampshire. 
Dr. George N. Bates '37 was named medical director of Owens-Illinois, Inc., Toledo, Ohio. He will be responsible for supervising the com­pany's medical program in which approximately 125 full-time nurses are on duty at plants and facilities around the country. Dr. Bates has been associated with Owens-Illinois on a part-time basis since 1947 as medical services director for general office employees. 
Faustin J. (Jack) Solon Jr. '38 is the new vice president for corporate relations of Johns-Manville Corp., New York. He will be responsible for the direction of advertising, sales promotion, public relations and public affairs. He is married to the former Virginia J. Williams. They and their four children reside at 24 N. Sylvan Rd., Westport, Conn. 
Thomas R. Bulger '39 has been elevated to the presidency of the Union Federal Savings and Loan Association of Indianapolis. His affiliation with Union Federal began in 1946. He had been secretary since 1958 and had served as executive vice president and secretary since 1965. He resides with his wife and two daughters at 5921 Wash­ington Blvd., Indianapolis. 
Chailes A. Shkk '42 was elected to the board of the Austin Co. at a meeting of the international engineering and construction firm's share­holders in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He serves as vice president and general manager of Austin's Process Division and lives in Hinsdale, 111. 
am surprised that we have not had one 
change of address since my last 
report was sent out. 
The Father Julius Nieuwland Assembly 

Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus, 
made up of members of Northern Indiana 
Councils, has named Rev. EDMUND J. 
MURRAY CSC '34 class honoree of 
the candidates upon whom the Fourth 
Degree will be conferred April 25 in 
South Bend. Fr. Murray, ordained in 1938, 
taught Latin and Greek at Holy Cross 
Seminary and religion at ND. During 
World ArVar 11 he served as an Army 
chaplain in the European theatre and 
retired with the rank of colonel. 
Fr. Murray witnessed my wedding in the 
Log Chapel in December 1954. 
Had a get-well card from BILL MOT­

SETT, 411 S.W. 18th Ct., Pompano Beach, 
Fla. Bill said he had not seen AL 
MONTECALLA since he moved in that 
area but does see BILL HUGHES 
and CHARLEY QUINN quite frequently. 
Enjoys the company of DAVE and 
Bernice FROEHLICH. Dave now has 
a home in Pompano Beach. Bill's son 
"Corky" is home from Vietnam, first lieu­
tenant and is going to junior college. His 
youngest son, John, is a freshman at 
Cardinal Gibbons. John played football this 
past fall and is now playing freshman 
basketball. Oldest daughter is at ND taking 
her master's. The other four are 
spread out across the country. Bill is in the 
real estate business in Pompano Beach. 
ELI SHAHEEN, president of Sutton Tool Co., Sturgis, Mich., sent in a very en­couraging letter. He had a visit from ED (MOOSE) KRAUSE on Dec. 22 and Ed told him about my having the heart attack. Eli had one in 1966 and tells me his heart is very strong again. He also quit smoking. His daughter Chris is now a freshman at St. Mary's and Paul is a junior in high school. I saw Eli at all the home games this fall. Really looks great. Also saw Mudge Dugan (Mrs. THOMAS 
R. DUGAN) before the LSU game. She looked great. 
I spent 47 days in the Illinois Central Hospital after my heart attack. Came home on Jan. 13. Two weeks later 1 suffered a setback and spent 22 days in the DuPage Memorial Hospital here in Elm­hurst, HI. Have been home nine days now and feel great. Cut my weight from 208 to 159. No smoking or drinking since Nov. 28. 
It was very encouraging while in the Hmhurst Hospital to get wires from Moose Krause and BOB CAHILL. Mary Cahill was kind enough to call Arlene and offer her words of encouragement. Also want to say thank you to JOHN DEE for calling my office to check on my condition. I think one of the biggest moments was when my nurse told me there were two men from the Notre Dame football team to call on me Christmas Eve. They were on their way to the Cotton Bowl. The boys presented me with a ND football signed by all the players and coaches. Of course, another great lift was seeing Msgr. JAMES V. MOSCOW. He came to the hospital three times. It's hard to tell you how comforting it was to see him. 
I cannot say enough about the care and attention I got from my wife Arlene. I know she suffered more than I did in many ways. In fact, my entire family has been great through it all. Our oldest daughter Marcia is a receptionist at the Northern Trust Company Bank and is going to type this report for me and have it at ND for the March 1 deadline. Renee is back at Loretto Heights in Denver. My son Eddie got his letter in freshman football and basketball. He attends Immaculate Conception High School here in Hmhurst. 
Just received a phone call from BILL SUEHR. Bill lives in Pittsburgh, Pa. He wanted me to know he went through the same thing and is back in good shape now. Bill told me he owns the Harry C. Suehr Co. in Pittsburgh, a printing and school supply business. I was very sorry to hear that Bill lost his dad last September at the age of 87, and his mother last January at the age of 85. 
Ed Moran 2501 No. Central Ave. Chicago, 111. 60639 
'37 REGULARS REPORT IN 
Some other regulars have reported in. JERRY BESANCENEY, still sporting license plate Ohio '37 ND, now a state examiner in Ohio, after retiring from 18 years with North American Rockwell. Jerry still plays the saxophone from band days and will bring it to the next reunion. It's either a threat or warning, but could compete with firecracks of JOE ZWERS. EDDIE HOYT is heavy in education teaching at CCNY, NY Institute of Credit, panelist on civil service, a daughter at Paterson State for education, son Jim graduated from Monlclair State and is in the Peace Corps teaching, other daughter in Douglas and one home to take to the football games. Ed saw JOE SCHILLING and wife at the Navy game. Joe lives in Scarsdale near BILL FALLON, dean of the NY Club and chief lookout in the NYC area. Bill, the bachelor, has given up tennis for golf and shoots in the 80-90's at Winged Foot which I verified last summer. I also checked BOB WILKE's handicap still at 2, and Bob was playing again. Fallon had the SCHWARTZ in-laws for a visit and PINKY CARROLL, who is no longer in Manhattan, Kan., but at St. Thomas in Minnesota and I am sure we all will be hearing from Pinky's development fund efforts. Fallon is the Ford man in Westchester and we will call on him for "Better Ideas" for Reunion. ZEKE CACKLEY, now Allentown, Pa., called en route to Great Gorge, our ski area, but also the home for a new Playboy Club and checking out the bunny situation for the St. Mary's gals. 
EDDIE REARDON logged in more miles than Nixon this past fall with KERRY and TERRY both on the U. of Iowa football team, between home games, away ones and then the two bowl games, ending up in Hawaii. In fact, his daughter was married last fall to the '69 quarterback, Dave KruU, and now in baseball. The secretary missed Eddie in K.C. when he took No. 2 son to Marymount, Salina, Kan. (otherwise known as Schwartz country). Had a brief visit with Al who was off for a sales convention, but managed a few "warm" days in Salina and if you can't sell air conditioners there times are tough. Al is also lay chairman of the board at Marymount, plus the hardware wholesale operator in the southwest and VIP. My son also spent some time with DICK DELANEY at Burlington, la.. 
touring the famous spots and hauling a ton of cookies back to school. Dick is getting lonesome now with another son off and married. Dick is nominated for No. 1 host in Iowa. WALT NIENABER spent some time in Europe with his family and then the islands for warmer climate. Son Jay graduated from Texas Law (before or after the Cotton Bowl game?), a daughter Sue in St. Louis, so Walt is catching up on this tuition problem. BERT SCHLOEMER is the president of his advertising aeency in Cincy. GERRY GOHMAN lives in Cincy and BILL PYLE in Columbus. 
Fr. ROBERT J. LOCHNER CSC is back at the University and will be celebrating his silver jubilee on June 24. Fr. Bob reminds his correspondents at Christmas time that all CSC mail is forwarded so don't hesitate to write. Fr. Bob's father passed away last year and if he had lived the family would have celebrated their 60th wedding anniversary when he celebrates his 25th year. FRANK REILLY advised of passing of JUSTIN McCANN, heart attack, his neighbor on L.I. Frank hears from JACK HURLEY, HERB KENYON (who's he???), and AL BRIDE. Seems as though Al lives in Florida these days along with the Boca Raton mayor, ED HUISKING, who has trouble trying to play golf every day of the year. Understand Bill '35 beat Ed at golf. Frank, if you hear from ED CROTTY let me know. Crotty has Danbury, Conn., all wrapped up from former high school football coach now to Recreation commissioner and camp owner. He moves to Ft. Knox next. The politician from New Hampshire, GERRY ZEILLER, is now the Health & Welfare Commissioner of N.H. After returning from Washington, D.C., he had some real estate operation going and now back to the political fold. 
Msgr. (Maj. Gen.) FRANK SAMPSON, Army's top chaplain since 1967 received the Hall of Heroes Award of the Friends of the Chapel of Four Chaplains in Philadelphia. Pause and say a few for STEVE FINAN and GEORGE BON­FIELD who passed away last fall. Steve really enjoyed the last reunion and came all the way from California. George leaves 12 children and wife in Florida. Eddie Reardon had reported a fine visit with the family a year ago and we also had a news card from George. A few changes in address had HANK RUEN moving to Florida and then back to Detroit. Then along comes CHUCK MILES giving up Chicago living for Florida and to lop it off, JOE McNALLY going to St. Petersburg, Fla. Class news should come from Florida as these lads have nothing to do. 
J. P. Quinn Jr. 
P.O. Box 275, Lake Lenape Andover, NJ. 07821 
'38 HOCKEY HERO 
PAT CAREY, who made Kokomo a house­hold word to the class of '38, dropped in just as I was starting this column. Pat is now a South Bender working Colfax-Waterfield after having a Sterling job for many years peddling beer. Same day I received a note from PHIL HOENE from Duluth thanking me for the clipping of his son Kevin, who is a star ND 
hockey pla>er. Phil, who was a fellow 
Swede with me at ND, helped host the ND 
hockey team in February in Duluth 
and all but one of his eight brothers and 
two sisters were there, including two 
from California, one from Idaho and 
another from Montana and their families. 
Mail also brought an invitation for 
all of you to visit PAUL HUGHES'S 
Irish Room in Flint and included a picture 
which he said ED BRENNAN took. 
Also mentioned buying the Sugar Bowl in 
Kalamazoo which sweet bit of news Helene 
and 1 will investigate next time we 
visit Helene's' family there. 
JACK SCOTT, editor of the Lafayette 
Journal & Courier and former mayor of 
South Bend — which job I've decided to try 
for in the coming primary — has become 
publisher of newspapers in Olympia 
and Bellingham, Wash. 
Address changes have come from 
AUBREY BOYD-SNEE, Los Angeles; 
HARRY W. TAYLOR, Tucson; JOHN A. 
HURST, Mundelein, 111.; EDGAR LEE 
ERASER, Los Angeles; MELVILLE DARK, 
Springfield, Mo.; WILLIAM LANGLEY, 
Columbus, Ohio; TOM KAVANAGH, 
Troy, Mich.; HENRY (Hank) LIPSIE, 
Oxon Hill, Md.; JOHN DIMATTEO, 
Miamisburg, Ohio, and RAY FIEDLER, 
Decatur, 111.—but no further information. 
How about writing? Maybe you could 
tell us how you like the idea of ND 
going co-educational. Anybody for it? 
Anybody? 
•Burnie Bauer 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46625 
'39 AROUND THE CORNER 
Missed the deadline for last issue, so I earnestly beg you to accept belated best wishes for a happy, healthful and blessed 1971. And on with it! With spring (?) football around the corner, let's return for a moment to Fall 1970 and the postgame reunions for all classes held in the A.C.C. The idea was fathered by DAVE MES­KILL and your scribe discussed at length with the quiet one, gem'al JIM COONEY, and eventually brought into being through the auspices of '38's promising entrepreneur, JOHN PLOUFF, managing director of the A.C.C. I'm certain I missed many of you, including JOE DUNN and Frances, in from Rocky Ford, Mont., for the Pitt game, according to Swede Bauer, '38's scribe. However, those tallied included DICK and Margaret BURKHOLDER, BOB and Belle ORTALE, AL KIEFER and wife, TED FRERICKS and wife and son Tim '71, and several members from other classes. With ticket time '71 approaching, plan to attend one or more, and perhaps stay for dinner in the Monogram Room. You'll be glad you did, I promise. 
Though you're quiet out there, the bones are not so old you can't move about. Recent travelers are: JIM McARDLE from Fort Wayne to R.R. 2, Syracuse, Ind.; Rev. R. T. KISSINGER SJ to 630 Stratford PI., New Orleans, La.; JOE HILBERT from West Hempstead, 
N.Y. to 101 Lincoln Ave., Apt. B, Mineola, N.Y.; EARL BROWN from Ann Arbor to 7009 Bonnie Dr. W., No. 41, Westland, Mich.; Rev. DAVID FOSSEL­MAN CSC from Haywood, Calif, to 16292 Foothill Blvd., San Leandro, Calif. One of our tracers finally shot down ALFONSO 
URIBE, now grounded at Carrera A 12, No. 83-47, Bogota, Colombia, S.A. Intracity moves by Dr. DAN TOBIN to 3108 Springcrest Dr., Louisville, Ky.; CLAUDE F. FITCH to 4111 Country Club Blvd., Sioux City, la.; HOWARD W. HOOPER to 1455 Ridgedale Ct., Mobile, Ala.; PAUL M. DONOVAN to 509 EUzabeth St., Hmira, N.Y. (MOOSE GOTTSACKER and TOM KING, please note); MATT McSHANE to 1147'/S N. Austin Blvd., Chicago, 111.; DAN FAL­SONI to 318 Bewley BIdg., Lockport, N.Y.; JOSEPH P. SULLIVAN JR. to 161 Harwood Ave., Littleton, Mass. (Don't move the plant, J.P.) and ART VER­HOESTRA to 50 Fairhope Ave., Fairhope, Ala. BERNIE FEENEY passed through on his annual northern trek, extolling the merits of sunny Florida. Via the grapevine we learned that JIM MOT­SCHALL'S son (Jim Jr. '71) follows the footsteps of Big Jim and is prexy of Fisher Hall, and as such furnished all Fisherites with an informational brochure patterned after our '60 reunion pictorial. Congrats, both Jims. 
The bells continue to toll the passing of our comrades. As reported in the January-February ALUMNUS, WILLIAM 
H. MALESH and STANLEY PODD are now in the ranks, and that issue also reported CHARLES E McENEARNEY '68, son of BURT McENEARNEY '39 passed away in December '70. Much belatedly we have learned of the death of 
L. PETER MARTIN in 1965, and from Lou Buckley, secretary for the '28 class, arrived a short note concerning the sudden passing of PATRICK J. BANNON while ' vacationing on the Caribbean. His son, Pat J. Jr., is a member of the class of 71. To the families of all, in behalf of all of you, I express our profound sympathy and urge you to remember them in your prayers. 
As I have said so many times before, the column depends on YOU, so start those cards and letters in this direction; I'll TRY to do the rest! 
Joseph E. Hannan 
1804 Greenwood Dr. 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'40 NO DESIRE 

It would appear that with only a few exceptions all of the men of '40 have no desire to maintain their ALUMNUS record intact. With your help and cooperation we have managed to have some class news published in every issue. This time you will observe that our con­tribution to class news is rather brief. 
CLIFF LETCHER was seeking informa­tion about one of our group and came up with very sad news. PAT BANNON suffered a heart attack and passed away Feb. 7. He was with the FBI in Washington, D.C., since 1963, and prior to that in Cincinnati and Norfolk. We extend our sincere sympathies to his wife, Angela, daughter, Kathleen and son, Patrick *71 and assure them that Pat and his family will be remembered in our prayers. 
Cliff indicated that he had the pleasure of introducing DICK LYING as the speaker at one of the ND Club of Washington luncheons held at the Touchdown Qub. 
CHUBBY GILLILAND will not let us miss an issue. He prepared a lengthy epistle right after the Cotton Bowl victory which started "How Sweet It Is," and you can imagine how really great the rest of it read. Chubby hopes that HYMIE CRANE will dig out of the snow and send some news one of these years. His neighbor for the winter is JOHN CAMP­BELL '26. He has been in contact with TONY POTENZIANI and JOHN JULIAN, but has nothing special to report. 
Class condolences to BILL JOYCE upon the death of his wife, Mary. We will all remember the Joyce family in our prayers. Bill lives in Tempe, Ariz., with an office near Chubby in Phoenix. 
That's it for now, men. Please help! 
Robert G. Sanford 1568 Beaver Ridge, Apt. B Dayton, Ohio 45429 
'41 CONVENTIONEER CALLS 
BILL WELSH was in the Los Angeles area for a library convention. Bill is with the Library of Congress, and lives in Bethesda, Md. He spent an evening with LEO ROBIDOUX, down from Santa Barbara, and PAT SHEA '39, of San Marino. STEVE CLARK has been elected as a director of Hercules, Inc., Wilmington, Del. He has been treasurer since April '69. 
Our football captain—and old Carroll HaU buddy—MILT PIEPUL, has been named head football coach and chairman of the department of athletics and physical education at the American International College, Springfield, Mass. Milt has managed to remain in the Northeast ever since he left school except for short stints with the Detroit Lions and a tour as coach at Cathedral High in Indianapolis. He has been on the coaching staff at Dartmouth, Brown, U. of Massachusetts, and Holy Cross. 
Had a telephone chat recently with JOHN O'LOUGHLIN. He and FRANK KENNEDY read my initial effort in the last issue and this led to the call with some info on Chicagoland. John and Frank had attended the Missouri game and had dinner with BILL STURM and his family. We were all shocked by the news of Bill's unexpected death. 

I learned that GENE QUINN has his own plastics firm in Los Angeles and is residing in La Canada and will get in touch with him soon. EMMETT NECAS has his own dry cleaning business in Glenview; TIM TALTY is still in Chicago with Illinois Bell; JAY REYNOLDS is with the Chicago Port Authority; JOHN MEYER from Danville, in addition to having his own private practice, is a special consultant to the attorney general in Illinois. GEORGE MARCUCCI, president of Gonnella Baking Co., has his firm sponsoring some of the Loyola U. games on TV. We talked in general terms of PETE KELLY, NICK LAMBERT, FRANK DOODY, RUBE MARQUARD and TOM GALLAGHER—all still living and working in the Chicago area. 
Sure would like to hear from more of you so we can prepare for a fine 30th reunion in June. Call or write to me— Home phone (213) 335-0729; oflice (213) 962-6711. 
Bill Daly 1204 Indian Springs Dr. Glendora, Calif. 91740 
'42 BIRTHDAY PARTY 
A special surprise party was held in 
Winnetka for JIM McNULTY's 50th 
birthday, and among those attending from 
our class were: TED McDONALD of 
Lafayette, Ind., STEVE GRALIKER of 
Decatur, TOM (Judge) CARROLL, 
TOM POWERS, BYRON KANALEY, 
JIM-CONWAY and BILL HICKEY from 
the Chicago area. 
Congratulations to THOMAS J. 
WALKER who has been elected president 
of the United Fund of Broward County 
by the UF Board of Directors at Fort 
Lauderdale, Fla. Tom served as chairman 
of the 1970-71 campaign. 
Bro. JOHN FEDEROWICZ CSC has 
been transferred from the Archbishop 
Hoban High School, Akron, Ohio, to 
Carroll College, Helena, Mont. 59601, 
where he is librarian. 
William M. Hickey 
5500 W. 73rd St. 
Chicago, III. 60638 
'43 FROM ALUMNI OFFICE 
The Alumni Office informed us that Msgr. 
ANTHONY M. BROWN, who graduated 
in the class of '43 under the name of 
Bro. Elstan Brown CSC, has been appointed 
to the Minnesota state board of education 
and regents by Gov. Forrest H. Anderson. 
Msgr. Brown, former president of Carroll 
College, Helena, Mont., is pastor of 
St. Peter's Parish, Anaconda, Mont. 
He also has served as vice president of 
administration at St. Thomas College, 
St. Paul, Minn. 
From the same source we learned that 
JOSEPH W. FITZPATRICK of Ellicott­
ville, N.Y., died Jan. 15 at Buffalo 
General Hospital after a long illness. He 
was vice president of Fitzpatrick and 
Weller Corp., of Ellicottville, and served as 
legislator from Cattaraugus County. He 
was a member of the ND Club of Buffalo 
and had served as a Navy lieutenant in 
WWII. He is survived by his widow, 
Margery, two daughters, his mother, four 
brothers, and a sister. Remember 
him in your prayers. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry 
Chatsworth, III. 60921 
'44 SORRY! 
Sorry that no column appeared in the last issue of the ALUMNUS. It wasn't your fault because material was available for it. It seems that there is much procrastination when it comes to writing this column. The deadline came and other unforeseen events occurred simul­taneously. Sorry to have let you men down. 
There is a saying—^June in January. Perhaps it should be changed to December in April. At holiday time 1970 greetings were received from eight members of the Class of '44—TOM ROLFS, JIM MALONE, JOE GALL, GEORGE BARISCILLO, HARRY YEATES, JERRY NILLES, DOM BOETTO and WARREN LEARY. They were appreciated very much. Thank you for remembering. The Class was honored once again when another member was nominated to run for the ND Alumni Board—JIM MEAGHER. Two members of the Class—GEORGE BARISCILLO and CHUCK PATTERSON have served on the Board while several others have been nominated in the past. It's great to realize that the members of the Class are held in such esteem. Many of you probably received notes from the mayor of SL Matthews, Ky.— BERNIE BOWLING—urging you to support the candidacy of Jim. 
GEORGE A. STRONG, Santa Clara, Calif., has been appointed associate dean of the school of law at the U. of Santa Clara. He has been a member of the faculty since 1955 and assistant dean since 1961. A long letter came from BEN MAMMINA, director of transportation of the Benton Harbor, Mich., school district. JIM THOMAS and BUZZ HASSETT were with him for the Purdue game last fall. At the Michigan State game he bumped into BOB MacDONELL. At the Army game he saw at least six '44eis, but visited mostly with JIM CONSTANTIN and WILLIAM PAUL O'CONNELL. Ben is up to his ears in busing, having 35 buses and 40 drivers to manage. 
FARRELL QUINLAN has had more than his share of problems. Last fall he spent six weeks in the hospital recuper­ating from surgery again and was restricted for an untold number of weeks. His 16-year-old son, Pat, was hospitalized II weeks following surgery. At the lime of his writing both of them were pro­gressing nicely. Farrell was reminiscing over his visits with FRANK. STUMPF, JACK KELLY, ED DOWLING, JOHN HERLIHY and JOE DILLON at a game the previous fall. BOB MARTINA wrote him recently and enclosed a picture of his home town—Sunapee, N.H.— which had appeared in a L.A. paper. 
A letter was received from JOE CONERTY who practices law in Woodstock, 
III. He does manage "occasionally" to get on the golf course. Last summer he established a new course record for nine holes at the Crystal Lake Country Club—31. Up until then he had a handicap of 10. The Christmas letter of DOM BOETTO and his wife told of the comings and goings of their nine children but very little about themselves. Their third child is a freshman at ND. FRANK STUMPF reported that he is an associate in the corporate finance department of Scott & Stringfellow, a regional brokerage and investment banking house. At the Army game he ran into NICK AMATO, JOHN KELLY, PAT KILEY, and JIM MEAGHER. At the Georgia Tech game he saw OMER STURM and TOM CONATY. Around home—Richmond, Va. —he frequently sees LEO BURKE and occasionally JACK UTZ. TOM ROLFS and Mary were on a Mexican vacation recently and had a visit at the home of DICK LEON and his wife. The RAY TOLSONs coincidentally were there at the same time. Perhaps the Leons have a record for the newest baby. Their youngest is six months old. At the fall home games Tom frequently saw JOE DILLON, PAT KILEY, BILL KENNY and JACK WITOUS. Tom's annual plea for Packer season tickets no longer will be forthcoming because on his own he picked up 10. With a new head coach and staff his investment should be a good one. 
WARREN LEARY's Christmas paper, that's exactly what his greeting was, was a masterpiece, two pages filled with 
iSongrals 
Riordan Manly Gorman 
Rallerman Dick Arnold 
Robert E. Riordan '45 has been named director, international opera­tions, at the general offices of Joseph T. Ryerson & Son, Inc., Chicago. Riordan, a foreign trade graduate of ND, has nearly 25 years of ex­perience in the international trade field including six years in the diplo­matic service overseas for the U.S. Government. Riordan and his wife have five children. 
W. D. Manly '47, M.S. '49, vice president of the Cabot Corp. and general manager of the firm's Stellite Division at Kokomo, Ind., has been named a charter "Fellow" of the American Society for Metals. His "significant contributions to the formulation of nickel alloys" were noted. 
James E. Gorman '48 has been advanced to senior vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank in New York. He joined the bank in 1949 and has been assistant treasurer, second vice president and vice presi­dent. He resides in Douglaston, N.Y., with his wife and their seven children. 
George W. Ratterman '49 is the new vice president of Pioneer Western Corp., a national financial services organization. Ratterman, who won monograms in four sports, football, basketball, baseball and tennis at ND and later starred in professional football, will direct the firm's western operations, based in Denver, Colo. He and his wife live in Littleton, Colo. They have 10 children. 
Nathan Don Dick 'SO is director of Social Security for the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare in Washington, D.C. He has been with HEW since 1959 after serving for seven years as a special agent for the FBI. He and his wife Terry and their three chil­dren reside in Silver Spring, Md. 
Conrad L. Arnold '52, who has extensive field sales experience with American-Standard, has been appointed manager of power sales for the Industrial Products Division of the firm. He and his family live in the Detroit suburb of Bloomfield Hills, Mich. 
interesting stories of the Leary family and those close to it There were reports on weddings, graduations, funerals, family travels, foreign guests, etc., etc. The Leary family lives fully and excitingly. His newspaper. The Chronotype, of Rice Lake, Wis., received two coveted plaques at the Wisconsin Press Association convention last year—^best editorial and best editorial page—in statewide competition. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 

'45 HOBBY IS CANOEING ~ 
GERRY E. COSGROVE writes that his hobby continues to be Whitewater canoeing. He is with the Oak Ridge National Laboratories as a Research Biologist, working in radiation biology effects in laboratory animals. Gerry's children: Nancy (Mrs. J. D. Smith); David (22), Mary (20), Judy (18), John (17), Paul (12), and Christine (10). 
Rev. WILLIAM H. DONAHUE CSC is professor of biology, chairman of the Biology Department at King's College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. He has been teaching at King's College since 1963, after completing his doctoral studies at Catholic 
U. He leaves on a one-year sabbatical to take advantage of a science faculty fellowship he has been awarded from the National Science Foundation to study genetics at the U. of Texas in Austin. He'll be there from September 1971 to September 1972. Best of luck and congratulations from the Class of '45 to you. Father. JAMES C. ANDREWS, M.D., is a dermatologist in Charlottesville, Va., and wife, Pat, is an anesthesiologist in private practice. His son, John, is a sophomore at ND. Jim and Pat live on a farm near Charlottesville, called Woodland where they have a small brood farm raising Tennessee walking horses. 
DON CLAEYS writes concerning one of the "lost" of the class, straightening out his address, as follows: "Al, I believe I can help you on one of your lost class members. You have JOHN BROZO as a missing address. It is now Capt. John G. Brozo, USN, 7 Midway Dr., Honolulu, Hawaii 96818. He moved back there just before the reunion last year. He was captain of the US.S. Zeliiia (AF49) and is now in the Plans and Policy Section of CinC Pac Fit at Peart Harbor. He should remain at this address for about two years before moving to another duty station for his last two years in service. I'm happy John is in Hawaii. Gute where I'm going on vacation next winter? I had lunch today (twice a week, in fact, each week) with BILL KLEM, and he asked that I say 'hello' to you and the class for him." 
Personal Note: I was very pleased and honored recently to hear that after a short "vacation" of some 7 to 8 years from the Board of the ND Club of New York, I have been nominated and elected to that distinguished group. So I'll soon be seeing some old friends . . . some new ones . . . and doing my best to help run this very busy local Club. 
Rest in Peace: For those members of our class who were not at our 25th reunion, and who did not get a chance to receive the "In Memoriam" card listing the deceased members of the Class of '45, here is the sobering and sad information: JOHN W. ADAMS, LEWIS J. BARSOTTI, WILLIAM A. BREZENSKI JR., WILLIAM M. CLEMENCY, THOMAS 
M. CUNNINGHAM, FRANK M. CUSICK, RICHARD P. FROEHLKE, LAWRENCE E. HACKETT, DONALD J. HOWARD, Rev. LEONARD R. LUX. 
Rev. PHILIP J. MITCHELL CSC, 
LAWRENCE J. NOOK, JOHN J. 
NOWAK JR., PATRICK F. O'BRIEN, 
EUGENE P. O'FALLON, HARRY J. 
OSBORNE JR., ROBERT E. PHILPOTT. 
HARRY J. RYAN, JAMES W. 
SCHAEFFER, Rt. Rev. V. A. 
SCHROEGER, JAMES E. SHEETS, 
MELVYN P. TOMBER, JOHN C. 
TREACY, FREDERICK C. VICIC and 
WILLIAM J. WHALEN. 
Big Brother Program: Several members of the class have written or phoned regarding the Committee for Dennis Kehne, the fatherless boy from Syosset, N.Y., for whom I am trying to gather enough money for an assist at a college education. They want to know if it is too late. I say, not at all! Please send your help to my address below, and we'll be in touch with you. And God bless you for your good work. 
A. V. Lesmez 122 Tullamore Rd. Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
'47 HEADS PORT GROUP 
JAMES R. KELLY, director of the Worid 
Trade Division of the Delaware River 
Port Authority (Philadelphia, Pa.), was 
elected a member of the American 
Association of Port Authorities at the 
organization's convention held in 
Houston, Texas. 

A note from Dr. JOHN J. SULLIVAN, M.D., tells us that it was good to see an entry for the Class of '47. Dr. Sullivan is a practicing ophthalmologist, and holds the rank of clinical assistant professor at the Upstate Medical Center. In 1964 he married the former Madaline McEvoy of Auburn, N.Y. They have three children: Margaret 5, John 4, and Timothy 11 months, who must certainly be among the youngest child of members of the Class of '47! He is already making plans to attend the 25th reunion next year and hopes he has the pleasure of meeting us all there. 
MICHAEL R. YARBENET is a prac­ticing CPA in Erie, Pa., since 1948. He also lectures in accounting at Gannon College. Has a 17-year-old daughter who is a Rotary International exchange scholar in Masterson, New Zealand, until July of '71. His son just received his degree in accounting from Gannon College. He hopes to be back for the 25th and would like some of his friends from ND to drop him a line if they see this article. 
James J. Shea 35 Liberty Terrace Ashley, Pa. 18706 
'49 THEISMANN WELCOMED 
The adrenalin runs strong and chests swell with pride as this area (Rochester, N.Y.) and our parish (Christ the King) prepare for a visit by All-American Joe Theismann. Our Annual Parish 
Father and Son Sports Nite features Joe 
this time around and as might be expected, 
the hall has been a sellout for three 
weeks. Our preparations for the affair 
which takes place early in March, must not 
interfere with another critical ND date 
—the Class of '49 news deadline—so, 
let's check the mailbox. 
Last November JOE NAUMAN wrote me a fine letter, newsy and political and most welcome. Political in the sense that he was soliciting my vote for JIM BRITT '53 for election to the Alumni Board of Directors. Newsy in that Joe announced several things: the arrival of child No. 9 last June, his fifth daughter; son No. 1 is at Ohio State; son No. 2 going to enroll at ND in the fall; Joe's law offices are moving to new quarters in the new Winters Bank Tower in Dayton, Ohio. As Joe put it, "Our present building comes down after about 50 years in the same location, this is a trauma!" 
A couple days after Thanksgiving I received a letter from JOSEPH C. BECK (so far, this column is the story of "Joe"!) who signed himself as "Joe '49 Mech. Engr. and Dining Hall." In his comments, Joe said he had to make some reference to the Dining Hall since he spent so much time at Ziggy's and Mr. Ford's "Country Club." Here's what has happened to Joe since '49. He worked in Chicago for two years. Then came Korea and aviation cadets and finally pilot's wings, USAF. Flew for 10 years and left service in 1960. On the way, Joe got his master's in mechanical engineering from Purdue in 1957. He got married in '52 to a Webster College grad and thus far they have five youngsters. Youngsters? The oldest begins college in the fall. Joe lives at 1811 Napa Valley Dr., in Little Rock, Ark., and currently is vice president for manufacturing for the Southern Paper Box Co. His brother, LOUIS '54, is V.P. for sales, and another brother, JOHN '61, is here in the Rochester area (Alpine Dr., Webster, N.Y.) as a Xerox patent attorney. Joe keeps his hand in the Air Force, as a major in the reserves. He tells me that he and Lou manage to catch the ND-Purdue game every year. So keep an eye out for him in the fall. I noted Joe's address so that some of his cronies can get back in touch. BOB CONNELLY wrote me about the sad doings in L.A. when the Irish played the Mud Bowl. Bob took his family to the game, sitting through it with BIB HOBAN and his wife, Jane. Bill is now V.P. of Consolidated Electrical Distributors in Hollywood. 
The night before the game, the Los Angeles ND Club put on a tremendous rally at the Biltmore Hotel where Bob ran into! —TOM McCAFFERY who is postmaster of Vallejo, Calif., KEVIN O'SHEA (successful insurance agency in San Francisco), CRISTY WALSH (living in L.A.), and DEVIN HARRIGAN (sales rep for one of the big publishing houses, branch office in San Francisco). Bob stayed at the Ambassador hoping to run into some of the boys and the move paid off when RALPH BRUNEAU stopped by in the coffee shop. Ralph is a very well known commercial artist in Phoenix, Ariz. "After the game, the 
L.A. Club held a wake," to quote Bob, "at the Century Plaza Hotel where we ran into Boston JOE DURKIN and his wife Mary (Mary Lee Gubbin from St. Mary's). Except for the rain and the defeat, it was a great weekend." Bob also sent along his greetings to MARTY LALLY, JOE FLOOD and any others I might see in this locale. Great letter, Bob! 
I erred in not covering in this column a fine report from PETER AHRENS. But I assure him and you that I'll lead with that item next month. Meanwhile, I encourage you all to send a memo to your secretary as these have done. It makes MY day—and Your column. Next time also—BILL DACEY and BILL BROCK­HOFF, and RAY KEYS .. . and YOU? 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'50 CURRENT STATUS ASKED 
Some of you have not advised me of your current status. Please send me information for the column. It is published seven times a year. 
As someone said, life begins at 40. But do the years need to go by so fast after that? Besides Dick and Klee and their ND freshman. Rick, taking good care of my freshman son, John, during the Thanksgiving holidays, now my high school senior, Jane, has been accepted and will go to SMC this fall. Sister Rita Claire CSC, SMC librarian, stayed with us for a few days and enjoyed the local SMC gathering the Miami SMC President (my wife, Mary Pat) sponsored. Sister Rita Claire said that Mary Pat has not changed at all. I can vouch for that. Nothing slows her down. She has gone into business (besides teaching French) by buying condominiums at Marco Island near Naples, Fla. (PAUL SCHAEFER is the P., Deltona Corporation, parent of Marco Island Development Corp.) and furnishes them for rental to friends of the ND-SMC family. If you see her camping in a VW in France this summer, nonchalantly ask for a taste of wine. We just celebrated our 20th anniversary and the next 20 promise to be more exciting —if that's possible. 
Now that the Dolphins have BOB KUCHENBERG, NICK BUONOCONTI and Joe Theismann, perhaps we will have some visits from you all during the year. We have four seasons here (all tourist). Added to that ND flavor, ND plays Miami in the Orange Bowl Oct. 9, 1971, and with a little bit of luck, perhaps a revisit Jan. I, 1972. (Anybody can dream.) I am equipped for skiing, scuba diving, and scotching on the cruising houseboat, if you come this way. 1 had a nice visit from GERRY and Dottie RAMSBERGER and some of the fine St. Petersburg clan. This year instead of JIM QUIGLEY, counsel for Pan American Insurance Group in Houston, taking care of his old roommate, Gerry, for the Cotton Bowl, we can have a little Florida treat, but this time in the Orange Bowl. "Quig" will be down our way to speak before the L.P. Gas Association in St. Petersburg. 
Had a nice card from BILL WIGHTKIN: "Since our great 20-year reunion not much has happened. We are looking forward to our daughter, Kathy's, gradua­tion from Immaculate Heart of Mary High School, Westchester, 111., in June. She will continue her education at St. Mary's of Winona, Minn. Our oldest boy, Bill, will move up to his senior year at St. Joseph's, Westchester. John and Joe are in grade school. Steve is three." 
It would be nice to see what new jokes JIM SLATTERY has to offer. I guess we will have to wait until the 25th reunion. 
JAMES A. WHALEN JR. has been promoted to director of marketing operations at the home office of Crum and Forster Insurance Companies in New York, N.Y. For the past three years he has been production manager of the 
C. & F. regional office in Chicago. Dr. ELLIOTT J. BURRELL has been namea assistant dean for sciences in the College of Arts and Sciences at Loyola U., Chicago. He has been associate professor of chemistry. 
WILLIAM J. ENSIGN, mayor of Toledo, Ohio, has been appointed to the cabinet of Governor-elect JOHN J. GILLIGAN '53. He was named chairman of the Ohio Youth Commission. He was elected' mayor in 1967 and reelected in 1969. JERRY TERHAAR has been elected to membership in the Appraisal Institute by the governing council of the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers. He has been a realtor in Buffalo, N.Y., since graduation. VALENTINE REISIG has been named advertising planning manager of Eastman Chemical Products in New York, N.Y. 
May you all have a good summer, and best regards. 
John W. (Sparky) Thornton 
4400 Monserrate 
Coral Gables, Fla. 
-51 REUNION REMINDER 
Our sympathy to JIM HENNESSY; just heard of the recent death of his dad. Please pray for him; continue to pray for the widows of and widowers among our classmates. 
BOB CLEMENCY has the same home address in Milwaukee but is now a partner with Michael, Best & Friedrich in Milwaukee. JOHN BOEHM, noted recently as Assoc. Prof, of Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology at Northwestern, has been named assistant dean for student affairs. Congratulations to Jack; he'll be another victim of his classmates' pressure in getting their children into med school. 
You should get this last reunion reminder about income tax time. We have just had a donation of two dozen leftover, slightly calcified cheeseburgers from the Dinner-Winner show: "Don't say hello or your chances go." Come and win a door prize and help us select a new secretary. Called BOB KLINGENBERGER, but Bob declined with regret. After all three terms is above and beyond the call of duty. Bob nominated JOE RIGALI by phone, and we second the nomination. So come in June and vote for Joe. 
If you want a little insight into the differences between '51 and '71, read A Search jor God in Time and Memory by Father John S. Dunne of our theology faculty. Then recall Life of Christ—/, and our studies of the famous rat kills in the spring after they were accumulated in traps during the winter months. This sort of contrast is more revealing and more significant than the obvious architectural modifications in the last 20 years. 
See you in June. 
Jim Jennings 
Borg-Wamer Corp. 
200 S. Michigan Ave. 
Chicago, III. 60604 
'52 IN NEW POSTS 
JOSEPH S. DEISS has been named com­munity relations manager by Philip Morris, Inc., for the company's Louisville, Ky., operations. He is president of the Blue Grass Chapter, Public Relations Society of America and a member of the Tourist Council, Louisville Development Public Relations Committee and other civic and professional organizations. Dr. RICHARD 
A. MANSFIELD has been appointed manager of resins and chemicals development at the General Electric Silicone Products Department, Waterford, 
N.Y. He resides at Saratoga Springs, N.Y. 
GEORGE H. CROSSETT has been appointed manager of PPG Industries' Automotive Glass Fabrication Plant at Creighton, Pa. Crossett, who joined Pittsburgh Plate Glass in 1954, has held a number of technical and supervisory posts, including that of manager of Glass Division building products supply services in Pittsburgh and director of production at the Ford City, Pa., specialty glass fabrication plant. He and his wife, Marion, live in LaVale, Md. They have one daughter. 
JOSEPH P. BROWN has sold two picture rights of his novel lim Kane to Newman-Foreman Co. Production is scheduled to begin this spring in Mexico. Another novel The Outfit: A Cowboy's Primer will be released by Dial Press in May. Joe seems bent on living the life of the outdoor man—wish we all could get into the act. That's really livin'! 
TOM DIGAN writes from Needham, Mass., that he is now in his new diggings after having worked for IBM in the Mid-Hudson Valley of New York with his wife Jean and eight children—four boys and four girls. Tom is now a computer consultant, assisting the New England personnel and customers in applying the manuals of these wonderful machines he spent 15 years in designing. Tom hopes to introduce his family to ND this spring on a visit to the campus. He recently saw ND knock off Boston College in hockey. Tom is sure optimistic about Boston's sports this year. He invites any '52 grads who might be in the area to attend (1) Stanley Cup play-offs (2) Worid Series (3) Super Bowl (with John Mazer at the helm—how can they possibly lose?) so be sure and stop by. He can always add a little water to the soup. 
That "sweetheart of a guy" MATT DUGGAN couldn't get tickets for the ND-UCLA basketball game so he had to enjoy that victory like many of us—over the tube. He had planned to bring his family out and enjoy a hockey game the evening before but instead sent them to his old South Bend classmate, who brought his family to the game. We cheered hard Matt and beat the Sioux of North Dakota, in an overtime yet, 6 to 5. 
JOE CELUZNIAK writes from San Francisco that his heart is in the Bay. Joe is now a member of the Barbary Coast in good standing with all the local hippies. He may try setting up his own 
commune if he can find a "live" one 
to help finance the opening operations. 
Write, you dogs—write!!! 

William B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'53 THE LAST COLUMN? 
C. JEROME SMITH, legal counsel to the Lake County (Indiana) Department of Public Welfare, has started organization of a state-wide association of county welfare agency attorneys. Smith, senior partner in a Hammond, Ind., law firm, said the objectives of the proposed association are to discuss, react to and establish programs beneficial to both the county aid agencies and their attorneys. ROBERT 
J. KOSYDAR of Columbus, Ohio, has been appointed tax commissioner by Governor-elect JOHN J. GILLIGAN '43. Kosydar has a law degree from Ohio State U. LOUIS N. CAVANAUGH JR. was the subject of a short feature in the Erie, Pa., Times recently. He is American consul in Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia. He has been there about six months and since going with the State Department ten years ago has spent six years in Japan as a foreign service officer and three years with the foreign service in Washington. JERRY HAMMES sent an excerpt of the Automobile Dealers Association of Indiana newsletter concerning JOHN THOMAS O'BRIEN'S election as vice chairman of the National Chrysler Dealer Council for 1971, which is antecedent to his election to the chairmanship for 1972. The excerpt reads as follows: 
"Mr. O'Brien, president of Northside Chrysler and Tom O'Brien Chrysler of Indianapolis, was elected vice chairman of the National Chrysler Dealer Council for '71 and chairman-elect for 1972. Of his fellow Chrysler dealers who know of his proficiency, they are elated that he will represent them at that level. 
"That he is dynamic and aggressive is demonstrated by the fact that he is giving birth to his third Chrysler dealership (it will be in Kokomo) and that Mrs. O'Brien will bear his 13th child come January '71. 
"Even entertainer Bob Hope plugs for Tom O'Brien, who he says 'needs all the business he can get because he has more kids to feed than Bing Crosby.' Bob's going to have to find a new straight man as Tom is four ahead of Bing already with another one due next month. 
"Congratulations, Tom, on both counts." 

JAMES a MURPHY, Akron, Ohio, formerly of Cleveland, Ohio, has the distinction of a law degree from Akron U. and being the father of five children. He reports that he sees JIM (Snake) SMITH, who is executive director of the Pittsburgh Bar Association, and Jim Smith was formerly on the staff of the Ohio State Bar Association. He reports that "Snake" was in the Bahamas at a "Bar Association meeting" in December and is one of the most loyal alumni Jim Murphy has met. Interestingly, he reports that "Snake's" father and grandfather attended ND and "Snake" has four daughters. 
The above information is the total received in the last two months. This includes information reported to the Alumni offices. As stated before, I had and have no intention of iterating and reiterating the doings of the dozen or so people who are closest to me personally. The decision as to the continuance of the column clearly reposes with our 960 members and I again exort letters, cards and phone calls to sustain this column. 
John T. Mulvihill 
645 First Bank Bldg. 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 
'54 LEND A HAND 
Let's get with it, gang. Do you realize if 
each of you wrote your secretary just 
once every 10 years that I'd have more 
than enough news to keep the columns 
ftill and interesting? Lend a hand, 
what say? 
It would be unfair after last column's 
congratulations to the Irish footballers 
not to mention the great ND basketball 
victory over UCLA, Jan. 23. In addition to 
the sensational heroics of Austin Carr '71 
it was a "team effort" in the truest sense 
of the word. Congrats to all. 
On this morning's business news broad­cast I heard the announcement of MIKE CALlANDRO's appointment to the presidency of St. Louis' Better Business Bureau. Mike had called a few weeks ago indicating the possibility of this ap­pointment. Welcome to St. Louis, Mike! ODILIO DIAZ is general manager of Piper Aircraft International, headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland. He's responsible for marketing and financial operations of Piper in Europe, Africa, India and the Middle East. JIM BROWNE continues his rise with General Acceptance Corp. He's now the executive vice president. BOB ZEIS has been named business manager of the Denver Post. He's been with the Post since 1955. Bob and his wife have five children. JOHN BUNDSCHUH, President of Bundschuh & Co., Inc., Financial Consultants, has been named to the board of directors of Malaker Corp. Malaker's Cryomite Cooler is used for manned and unmanned spacecraft projects. 
Heard from "The Gapper"; you remember him as GEORGE A. PFLAUM JR., who ser\'ed so well as class secretary our senior year and the following seven years. He enclosed a very impressive catalogue, "Books and Visuals from Pflaum, 1970­1971." He also enclosed an interesting article from the August Farm Journal/ Beet Extra which frequently quoted veteran feeder JAKE NOONAN of Potter County, Texas (Amarillo, y'all). I always thought Jake was a veteran tie cutter. 
From the military: Maj. PAUL ROBST has been assigned duty at McClellan AFB, Calif., after Vietnam duty. Welcome back, Paul, Babe! Maj. RAY BUBICK is on duty at Korat Royal Thai AFB, Thailand. Ray got his M.S.E.E. in '66 from U. of Colorado. (Ray, just tell them you know CHARLIE SPICKA and everything will be fine while you're over there.) Had a note from JIM DASCH­BACH (major USAF). Jim's on a year's leave of absence from ND to attend the Command and Staff College at Maxwell AFB, Alabama. Jim will be back in time for our 1971 Reunion party. Talking about parties, I got a quick letter from DICK LYON after I offered his home for a class party prior to the ND-LSU game next fall. He, of course, wrote to confirm the idea, after seeing LSU demolish Ole Miss in their Snake Pit, on TV. I'm not sure I want to come down. Dick's a newlywed of five years now with two sons and lives in Baton Rouge. Dick reports on some past contacts with JOE DIPINTO and JIM HARRINGTON and would like to hear from some of the other CH.E.'s like DOLLMAN BISHOP, L. BALDWIN, D. HUMM, 
H. CLANCY, WEB ARCENEAUX, etc., etc. Somebody start a letter and we'll circulate it. 
Good news from Marilyn, bride of STEVE STECKBECK. Their fifth child, Samantha, was born Sept. 28. Steve and Marilyn, their two daughters and three sons, live at 1333 W. Rudisill Blvd., Fort Wayne, Ind. Ann and JOE CAMPBELL, 3848 Cardinal Rd., Tucker, Ga., were blessed on OcL 18 with a son, Dennis (No. 2 son), Joe's selling concrete and mixers in the Atlanta area. Ole JERRY TURLEY wrote his once-every-16-years letter reporting on the ND-USC game. WaifU the revenge bowl in South Bend this fall, Jerry. At the Postgame Communion Breakfast the following day, Jerry ran into JOHN O'HARA and DICK EHR. Jerry's been an engineer with the Kaiser Steel for 10 years after six years active duty in the Navy, and is now living in Colton, Calif. 
Some sad news, too: classmate JIM KELLEHER passed away on SepL 8, 1970, and the father of MARVIN BREZETTE passed on to his eternal reward on Dec. 16, 1970. Your prayers would be deeply appreciated. By the way, if anyone is interested, you may obtain cards (quite nice) for enrollment in the Perpetual Membership of Holy Cross Prayer by writing Rev. William McAuliffe CSC, Holy Cross Assn., Box K, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
That empties the barrel again. Need your help. 
Milton J. Beaudine 21 Signal Hill Blvd. 
E. St. Louis, 111. 62203 
'55 STILL GLOWING 
Received a long letter from BILL KREPS shortly after he had returned from the Cotton Bowl game "and the glow hasn't worn off yet," He was looking forward to collecting a few pesos from his Texas friends. The Kreps now live in Houston (10710 Riverview Dr.) where he's a staff supplies specialist for Shell. Prior to moving to Texas, Bill had been in New Orleans for four years. Bill points out that everyone has to come to see the Astrodome and it will be easy to call, since he's the only Kreps in the phone book. 
Before I forget it, I want to acknowledge Christmas greetings from the households of ED FOX, JERRY BRANSFIELD, JOHN WEITHERS, TOM IGLESKl, JACK FLYNN, JIM BERGQUIST, JOE SASSANO, JOE KEARNEY, STEVE REBORA, MIKE KELLY, MARTY CULHANE, JOE HEGNER, DAVE COHEN, BILL McLAIN, DICK BEEMAN, PAT DiPASQUALE, FRANK LOLLI, TOM O'MALLEY (the former proprietor of this column), JOE DALEY, JOE CONNOLLY, FRANK MAIER, HANK GlES (and the great annual Christmas poem of Ginger), TOM CAREY, NEAL HALLORAN and DON HANISCH. 
JERRY HUGHES checked in from Austin, Tex., where he's now flying his 
RF-4 with one eye on Southeast Asia. "Since our reunion we've had an addition to the family—a beagle named 'Irish' (officially Irish XIV with the AKC!)." NED RYAN wrote from California to say that "our progeny is now increased to four with no particular end in sight." Ned said that he had lunch with DON PETERS, who also is practicing law. PHIL STUMP responded to that "whatever happened to" dig from 87 Drakeford Ave., N. Babylon, N.Y., where he is working for Grumman on the Navy's new F-14 project. Hope you've worked out the bugs, Phil. By the way, look up another Notre Damer on the project, PAUL KEARNEY. Phil was deeply involved in the Apollo project from 1965-69. Phil was spacecraft director for the LM test craft that was put through thermal vacuum testing at Houston 
before the lunar landing. 
Dr. ED TOOMEY passed along a clipping from the Boston Globe that gave details on his Cushing Migrant Relief Project that is designed to bring medical and dental health care to the more than 5000 migrant farm workers in Massachu­setts. The mobile health teams have been established, according to Ed, as a "living memorial to the late Richard Cardinal Cushing." 
Enjoyed a long chat with JIM BARRY after the ill-fated ND-Marquette basketball game in Milwaukee. CLEM DEVINE, was that you across the smoke-filled room after the game? DAVE KILKEARY, who's with GE in Philadelphia, got himself quoted by Bob Considine (not bad for an old journalism class­mate) on the side-effects of space exploration. "It is," he said, "proving to be a sound investment in terms of economic return to the U.S. More than two million weather photos have been transmitted from space since 1960. The potential economic impact of improved long-range forecasting is still greater. The savings are estimated to be S2 to $2.5 million per 
year in agriculture, forestry, fishing, commerce, transportation and many other fields." 
Here are some new addresses for the military contingent: Cdr. JIM EHRET, 2911 Calhoun St., Alameda, Calif.; Cdr. PAUL HARTMAN, 95-222 Kehepue Loop, Mililani Town, Hawaii; Lcdr. JOHN DAHM, Battalion 3, Navy Mobile Construction FPO, San Francisco; and Maj. MARTY MAHRT, 143rd TAC FTR SQ. AAC, APO SeatUe. 
Still looking for guys like TOM QUINN, DICK WILLIAMS, DICK McVEIGH, GENE LUND, JIM O'SHEA and FRANK TONINl. Get in touch if you have some current information. There may be a reward! 
RALPH GUGLIELMI, the old signal caller, has been elected to the board of directors of Penn Metal Fabricators, Inc., with offices in Silver Spring, Md. Ralph is vice president of Computer Business Supplies, Inc., of Washington. GENE CARRABINE, one of the best defensive halfbacks ever to come down the pike, received the Good Government Award at the Distinguished Service Awards Banquet of the Gary (Ind.) Jaycees. Gene, a member of the City Council and a supervisor at the Gary-Hobart Water Corp., was cited for his outstanding work as chairman of the council's finance committee. ED BRODERICK has been appointed to the nine-man board of trustees of Morris County College in New Jersey. A native 
of Morristown, Broderick now prac­tices law there. 
For the benefit of IRS, I'll print some new addresses: GEORGE KLUEGEL, 1425 Valley Forge Rd., Lansdale, Pa.; LARRY BREHL, 1090 Covington PI., Allison Park, Pa.; JERRY FROEHLICH, 4514 Homeland Blvd., Erie, Pa.; DAVE DISCHER, School of Public Health, University of Washington, Seattle; ROSS BRACKNEY, 630 Hancock Dr., Newport News, Va.; JOHN DROEGE, 227 Court St., Plymouth, Mass.; JACK STEPHENS, 4 Flower Court, Lakeside Park, Ky.; RON SERSEN, 303 W. Olive St., Prospect Heights, III.; BOB COPELAND, 28 Cynthia Ave., Coldwater, Mich.; JIM GIBBONS, 3528 Twinsprings, Carmel, Ind.; TOM KINSLER, 4804 Tullamore Dr., Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; DICK BOLAND, 3046 Brentwood Dr. S.E., Grand Rapids, Mich.; JOHN KURTZ, 
6448 Brownlee Dr., Nashville; BOB KERBY, 73 E. 236th St., Bronx, N.Y.; JIM OWENS, 5414 Chadwick, Shawnee Mission, Kan.; and PHELAN THOMP­SON, 1 Wandella Ave., Roseville N.S.W. 2069, Australia. Note to IRS: send my finder's fee to the office so that Sandra won't know full amount and go to Marshall Fields. 
Paul Fullmer 1922 Larkdale Dr. Glenview, 111. 60025 
'56 15th COMING UP 
Unfortunately, there is a scarcity of infor­mation to write about for this issue. 1 talked briefly by phone with BILL JACKMAN in Washington, D.C., about a young friend of mine whom you Washington • area residents should follow —Larry Van Loan, a plebe receiver at the Naval Academy. He may distinguish himself in football for the Midshipmen. 
The reunion is coming up soon. Why not call your former roommate and make arrangements now to attend. The 15th promises to be a rewarding and fun-filled weekend. 
JOHN RODGERS is still in Rochester, 
N.Y. TOM BENNETT, MIKE REGAN, JOHN ALLEN are all active in the Buffalo area in their professional capacities. 
Let's see you in June! 
Eugene O'Connor 656 HIicott Square Bldg. Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'59 HERE'S WHAT HAPPENED 
Maj. NEAL B. LAMPING, currently assigned at Kirkland AFB, N.M., has been awarded a Ph.D. degree in geophysics by Texas A&M. BOB FOX has been appointed vice president of manufacturing by Thomas Industries, Inc. Bob had been with Booz, Allen and Hamilton as a consultant in manufacturing and lives at 4067 Massie Avenue, Louisville, Ky. 40209. CONRAD SUSKI is now manager of financial planning at Southwest Potash Corp., a subsidiary of American Metal Climax, Inc. He and his wife reside in Manhattan. RICHARD MONAGHAN, Dayton, Ohio, has been named to the new position of factory manager at the Dayton Chemical Products division of Whittaker Corp. 
BILL KANE wrote recently to obtain 
TOM LOPINA's address in Rochester, N.Y., and to follow up a discussion during our last reunion. At that time Bill mentioned that he thought JOHN G. BYRNE JR. had died in a plane crash in the early '60's. Bill was able to confirm this a few weeks ago. The father of JOHN C. DeFELLIPPIE died Jan. 4. John's address is Route 1, Box 423, Trinidad, Colo. 81082 and he is now a design engineer at the Martin-Marietta plant in Denver. 
IVAN OSORIO, arUst and designer of many Scholastic covers in the late '50's, and now secretary of information and press for the Republic of Nicaragua, wrote to obtain the addresses of GENE BER­TONCINI (211 East 60th St., New York, N.Y. 10022), STEVE DRAGOS (2 Normandy Court, Binghamton, N.Y. 13903) and TOM PEZZUTI (303 N. 28th St., Camp Hill, Pa. 17011). Ivan received these from JIM COONEY's office two months ago, and we thought you might like to have the addresses also. We wish we could reproduce Ivan's artistic signature—it's fantastic! 
Class president JOHN HAYWARD resigned from the staff of the prosecuting attorney (in Toledo, Ohio) to devote his full time to private practice. MIKE PHENNER has been admitted to partner­ship in the law firm of Hopkins, Sutter, Owen, Mulroy & Davis, 1 First National Plaza, Chicago. 
"Whatever happened to old whatsisname?" To help answer, the following classmates have moved to new areas of the country: BOB WELCH (Visalia, Calif.), Father LARRY SAHA CSC (Austin, Texas), JOHN HASLEY MD (Sylvania, Ohio), HAROLD BICK (East Denville, NJ.), BILL SULLIVAN (Aurora, Colo.), JIM DOYLE (Menio Park, Calif.), BOB MARSO (Greenfield, Wis.), JIM LEONE (Ocean, NJ.), RICHARD BARELLI (Carmel Valley, Calif.), Lt. Cmdr. JOHN PATRICK WEIKERT (from the Naval Post-Graduate School in Monterey, Calif., to the USS Seahorse (SSN 669), FPO, N.Y. 09501), BILL KERRIGAN (Clearwater, Fla.), BOB GHELARDI (300 E 71st St., New York, N.Y.), JOHN BROSIUS (Darien, III.), JOHN WEINER (Litdeton, Colo.), BOB CALLAGHAN (Passaic, NJ.), JOHN HOGAN (Cin­
cinnati), TERRY DALY (from Grayslake, 
III. to the Military Liaison Office, Box 10, FPO San Francisco, 96659), and Maj. NED JOHN MacCARTHY (Carmichael, Calif.). 
Joseph P. Mulligan Box 99 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'60 SUNDO^VN? 
So sayeth ED SILLIMAN: "If you are a past subscriber to Easy Ed's equinoctial, effusive, elongated epistles effected and emanated to evoke encomiastical, empyreal, embellished edification enumerating epicene experience in epicurean, educa­tional and epidermic enlightenment, excuse extensive editorial escapism." Ed gets around a great deal as evidenced by his elongated epistles (14 pages covering only spring and summer). Well do what we can for this edition, use more next time, and next time and . . . 
"End of summer at Purdue found me nursing wounds in Rochester for a week, saying hello to the great group there. 
Then on to Jay Peak, Vt., for a week of ski lessons. Great place to ski, but bad news for socializing. Continuing bugs in my motor home caused me to find living space in a lovely home with an elderly widow who is a joy, better than a grandmother. Spring vacation, extended by a week, proved a valuable respite, as I performed active duty training with the Navy in L.A. Thanks to a true friend and gracious host and two lovelies, I found 
L.A. much more hospitable and habitable than expected. 

"After the end of long standing, on-olf romance and continued disaffection with grad studies my previously charmed life was in a skid. But after two weeks in June back in L.A. with Navy and friends and some discussion with the faculty on educating yours truly, I was well again. And off for a swinging summer. Louisville and family first—brother Mike is an X-ray technician and unit head at General Hospital and playing drums four nights a week with two groups. On to Rochester and lovely girls and a newly refurbished sailboat. Alas, Swand was married, Sandy engaged, Anne going steady, drinking buddy secretaries were busy (he who hesitates is not only lost, he drinks alone) and no wind for sailing. However, Barb and Janice managed to brighten a few evenings. And deep gratitude to the SZCZERBAs '61 for good company and Mary's brother Paul and wife Cheryl, who were nice enough to stage a great Italian wedding while I was in town. Love those Italian weddings! 
"My course turned southward and two unbelievable days with twin brother, PHIL DELONGCHAMPS and sidekick Betty, and friends Kathy, Ann (who is a traffic hazard in a bikini), and Jim and Frankie (who was never sure any of us were for real). Travel notes: Try the Cave in D.C. for swinging dancing, it's over­whelming what the place has on display. On to Oak Ridge and Jo and JIM KOLOPUS and family in new home and tour of AEC labs. Into New Orleans and the FENNs '61 and my favorite bundle of southern charm, Carol. Travel Notes: Masson's; Creole Room of the Pontchartrain Hotel; Lounge of the Fontainbleu. Left for Houston anticipating Texas hospitality and swinging Texas gals that Mike Sherman (grad roommie) had written about. Mike and Gale came up with the ultimate in Linda and Barbara, who helped to demonstrate the moon rock for the native inhabitants. Houston was keyed up for my return— parties everywhere—but my name isn't astronaut. Phoenix and old friends converted me to the Southwest. 
"And back to L.A. Ooops, first a member of the Arizona State Police. Seems he differed with my philosophy of open highway driving. By the time we finished, he was not so sure. But being gentlemen we agreed that I would follow his philosophy on speed limits to the Calif, border, and he would overlook our previous differences of viewpoint. Nice chap, and I did enjoy the leisurely trip." 
(to be continued) 
Bits and Pieces: KEN P. QUINN after Peace Corps, is presently with American Bankers Association in Urban Affairs. He and his wife Terry have one child, a daughter. He reports JIM TURNER has been in Philippines since '62. He has been a university professor and has worked with communications media. 

Presendy is high level trouble-shooter for 
large conglomerate. Has converted two 
brothers to Filipino way of life also. 
TED McCOURTNEY now with Venrock 

Association (Rockefeller) reviewing 
investment proposals for new ventures in 
advanced technology and preparing for 
expansion. Office is 30 Rockefeller Plaza, 
Room 5600, N.Y. 10020. Home, with 
Tracey and one-year Ashley, is Garlen Rd., 
Katonah, N.Y. 10536. LARRY TURNER, 
6100 S.W. 118th St., Miami, is into the 
banking business instead of law. Roberta 
and Larry, Mike and Anne Kelly are 
basking in the sun. ROBERT J. 
MITCHELL has been with Provident 
National Bank, Philadelphia, since 1960 
and is presently a vice president. C. 
THOMAS MEYERS is a manager of 
business analysis for the Specialty Appliance 
Department of General Electric. He has 
been with them since 1960 in training 
programs, corporate audit staff and traveling 
auditor. He, Margaret and Marianne, Susan. 
Thomas, Robert and James reside at 
64 Flora Dr., Stratford, Conn. 
J. RAYMOND FITZPATRICK married Sandra Thompson, living in Doylestown, Pa. Dr. WILLIAM E. SCHECKLER presently associated with East Madison Clinic, 1912 Atwood, Madison, Wis., in practice of internal and infectious disease. JOHN DENMAN, doctor of oral surgery, resides at 20570 Canal Dr., Grosse He, Mich. 48138. Capt. DON PRAIRIE is a flying safety officer in the 437th Military Airiift Wing. PETE GENI­ESSE has been managing editor of the Twin-City News Record in Neenah, Wis., after some time with the Papal Volunteers in Chile. TOM PATCH EL is with Photophysics, Inc., as marketing manager in Mountain View, Calif. MIKE McKEE has teaching and research position at Penn State after three years sociology at ND. OLIVER FLOR, V-P of Pacific National Bank, Seattle. Maj. LEN SCHUMACHER, Valley Forge General Hospital; FRANK X. ATKINSON, 5821 Acton, East Syracuse, N.Y., is key market manager for International Har­vester's Albany Truck district. 
Didn't the sun finally set on the British Empire? 
Thomas J. O'Connell 
'61 IT WON'T BE LONG 
It won't be long until June is here, so I hope you set aside June 11, 12, 13 for our reunion. It'll be great to count the hairs left on our heads. Really, try to make it! Got a note from MIKE FL'VT^IN. He and his wife Ruth live in Chicago. Mike is a pediatrician now in the suburbs. They have three sons, Sean, Patrick and Kevin. JERRY COLLIGAN received his Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the U. of Michigan in 1968, and is working in the Basic Geophysics Department for Esso Production Research in Houston, Tex. The Colligans have three daughters and a son. Got a card from MIKE GEDDES. In February 1969 Mike was elected president and chief executive officer of Arizona-Colorado Land and Cattle Co. On Dec. 4, 1969, the shares of the company's stock were listed for trading on the American Stock Exchange and the Pacific Coast Stock Exchange. CARL (Buzz) VAN HECKE was made district manager, Dallas office of Andrew Corp. 
and moved his family to Richardson, Tex. Buzz and his wife have four children, David (7), Eddie (5), Clare (3) and Katy (2). Before moving. Buzz was treasurer Wash. D.C. ND Club and was active on his parish council. THOMAS DePRETORO was married in 1963. He and his wife have three children, Tricia (5), Tommy (4) and Bill (2). His present position is area manager in Omaha, Neb., for Industrial Division of Scott Paper Co. Tom served five years in the U.S. Marine Corps. DAVE LERMAN is living in South Bend. He would like his class­mates to call when they come to visit the University. How about if the class stops in around the 10th of June, Dave? The Lermans have five children. DENNY PENNY and his wife, Jo, moved their family, three children, to Terre Haute, in August of 1968. Denny is the sales manager for Gartland Foundry Co. He's also a private pilot. 
JIM (Skip) FIORE was promoted to assistant vice president and placed in charge of operations at the First National Bank of Madison, Wis. His wife, Barbara SMC '62, have two adopted children, Mike (2) and Karen (5). Good news. Skip plans to attend the reunion. 
S. BENNISON is assistant director of personnel Newark-Beth Israel Medical Center, Newark, NJ. They have a "big litde feller," named Billy. RICHARD TRASKOS got his Ph.D. from MIT in 1966. He married Margaret Evans in 1964. They have one daughter (4) and they are expecting a second child quite soon. Richard is working as a research engineer for the Rogers Corp. in Connecticut. DAN HALLORAN and his wife had their third child, a daughter. Marguerite in November. Dan is the salaried personnel manager, Penick and Ford, Ltd., Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 
JIM TWOHY and Betsy live in Matawan, NJ., and they just had their fifth child, John. The count is now four boys and one girl. .Ara is sure going to have some choice from our gang. Jim is a marketing representative for IBM. JIM WALDORF is alive and well and living in Milwaukee with mate Ginger who is expecting the third "little Waldorf." Jim is manager of a branch of the First Wisconsin National Bank. ROBERT SCHVITZE moved back to Chicago from Seattle July, 1969. He and his wife's first child, a son, James Paul, was born in May. JOHN MULROONEY graduated from 
U. of Minnesota Medical School i'n 1965. He interned at Minneapolis General Hospital. Married in 1966 to Marlene Sowasa. 1966-1968 John was in the Army at the Boston Induction Center. 1968-1971 now in medical residency (Internal Medicine) at Minneapolis General Hospital. They have one child, Kevin (2'/4). Got a card from BILL FISCHER, who claims to still be a clean-liver! That's hard to believe. Bill. Anyway, Bill is still living in Hamilton, Ohio. He's with Sales-Mead Corp. Bill and Carole have three boys, who are real ND fans already: Chris (7), Matt (3), and Mark (2). Bill wants to know the whereabouts of JIM O'LEARY, JOE BRIAN and FRANK OITCHEY? JOHN O'HALLORAN married July 18. '69 to Cynthia Helen Melady of St. Paul. 
JOHN MCLAUGHLIN is stni single and living in Nahant, Mass., north of Boston. He received managerial award in 1969 from GE's Aerospace Electrical Equipment Department. Well, that about does it for now. Before I forget, thanks a lot TIM HUGHES for standing in for me. Your article was great. Don't forget June 11-13. Take your wife out to dinner and ask her permission to go. See ya soon. 
Bill Henneghan 
30556 Scrivo Dr. 
Warren, Mich. 48092 
'62 PLEA FOR MAIL 
Not much news to report this time. Please take a minute and write if you have any news of classmates. Traveled to Phila­delphia recently with BILL SCANLON and JIM HIGGINS to watch the ND-Villanova game and spent the better portion of the evening with JIM GANNON. Jim, a lawyer, has recently gone into practice for himself in Media, Pa. 
RICHARD JANICKI has formed a new advertising, marketing and public relations firm, based in South Bend, named House of Advertising. JOE BUCUZZO has been appointed assistant professor of mathematics at California State College in FuUerton, Calif. Joe received a Ph.D. in math at ND in August. TOM MAX­WELL has been named an assistant 
U.S. attorney for the District of Connecticut. He will operate from the New Haven office. He is a member of the Bridgeport law firm of Clancy, Keney, Flynn and Ford. ED BARTON received a JD degree from Harvard in June. DAVE MENZIE is an attorney for the governor's council on crime control in Denver. Dave graduated from the U. of Kansas School of Law last June. JOHN GARNETT now lives at 734 Hanley Ave. in Los Angeles and teaches math at UCLA. Next year he will go to Sweden for a year. John is married and has two children. JOE WHITE has been appointed associate director of portfolios in the securities investment division of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co. Joe and his family reside in East Longmeadow, Mass. 
My deepest sympathy to DAVE MENZIE, QUIN DENVIR, TREY HEEKIN and TOM WENNING, all who experienced the death of a parent in recent months. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St. Bethesda, Md. 20034 
'63 WIVES WRITE 
Nice note here from MIKE LARSON's wife Boo, from Kankakee, 111., where Mike is an industrial engineer with Roper Corp. She says that GARY and Linda Klausner are living in La Canada, Calif., with their new daughter. Gary is an attorney with the Los Angeles D.A.'s office. BOB FRALEIGH and wife Maddy are living in E. Hartford, Conn., with their three children. BOB and Gail JUSTER are living in Wayne, NJ., with their two-year-old daughter. Bob and Bob are both working as engineers. Thanks for the note. Boo! 
TOM MICHAEL writes from Anderson, Ind., where he is working as a project engineer for the Delco-Remy division of GMC. Tom reports that GEORGE YEEND and wife Linda are in the Akron 
Consrals 
Volkomener Perry Zeis 
Moylan Angers Cotter 
Sr. Helen C. Volkomener M.A. 53, a sister of the Providence Com­munity, Seattle, Wash., has been elected to the staff of the United Methodist Board of Missions. She will become executive secretary of development education and training in the Women's Division of the Board on July 1, and be on the staff at the United Methodist Office for the United Nations in New York. 
Anthony F. Perry '54 was elected to serve as a director of Peoples Bank of Marycrest, Kankakee, 111. He moved there from Chicago Heights in 1962 to become owner of Marycrest Shopping Center and president of Marycrest Development, a real estate and development company. He also is president of several other Kankakee companies. 
Robert H. Zeis '55, who has been with the Denver Post in Denver, Colo., since 1955, has been appointed business manager. He has served as classified advertising salesman, retail advertising salesman, assistant personnel director and assistant business manager. 
Kurt S. Moylan '61 was elected the first lieutenant governor of the Territory of Guam. He has served as a member of the Guamanian legislature and in August, 1969, was appointed by President Nixon to the position of secretary, the No. 2 spot in the territorial government. Last November, in the first election there, Moylan was elected lieu­tenant governor. 
Clifford N. Angers Jr. '63, who has been with Ogilvy & Mather Inc., advertising, in New York, since 1967, has been elected to the position of vice president. He has been an account supervisor on a General Foods account. Angers resides in Stamford, Conn., with his wife and three children. 
Francis J. Cotter '65 has joined the legal staff of Delta Air Lines as an attorney. He received his J.D. from Southern Methodist U. School of Law, Dallas, Tex., in 1968. Before joining Delta he was a briefing attorney to the chief judge of the Northern District of Texas. He resides at 6640 Akers Mill Rd., Apt. 14 B-4, Atlanta, Ga. 30339. 
area, where George is a service represen­
tative for Westinghouse. 

GEORGE and Nancy MADDOCK. and 
four children live in Bloomingdale, 

outside Chicago, where George works for 
Keebler Cockie Co. JOHN McLAUGHLlN 
and family (three children) are living 
in Pendleton, Ind., where John is 

associated with the S&L and a real estate 
company. Closing out his note, Tom 

reports that wife Patti and three children 
are all well, and that he also is working 
on his MS degree nights. 

A phone call from TERRY DESMOND in Detroit brought news that MATT MURPHY is a district manager for Chevrolet in the Detroit area, and that the Murphys are expecting their fifth child. PETE JASON working for the Corporation Council's office in Detroit, has two children. GREG SCHWARTZ, working as a broker in Detroit, has four children. PAT O'BRIEN, working for IBM, aeain in Detroit. CHARLEY DRISCOLL working for Xerox in Chicago, has twin boys for a total of three children. Terry himself is married, has four children, and operates a funeral home in Detroit. 
Nice note from JIM BAILEY'S wife, Leslie, reporting that JOHN HALL is still in the Army in Fort Bliss, Texas—a captain now. JIM BEST, wife and four children, are living in Spring, Tex., where Jim is a pilot for Delta Airlines. COSBY UBELHART is a first-year resident in general surgery in Lexington, Ky. He has two sons. JOHN LAMBERTI, wife and daughter live in Wobum, Mass., where he is a lawyer. DENIS O'DONOGHUE has settled in NX, just outside N.Y.C. with wife and son. He is a pilot for American Airlines. Leslie also notes that they saw Arnold Testa and Al Uniack at the SC-ND game. 
Another note from SAL CILELLA's wife, Marifred. Sal is working in South Bend as director of the Northern Indiana Historical Society Museum, after gaining his master's degree in history and museum training and serving three years in the Array. Sal and Marifred were married in the Log Chapel at ND. 
Another nice note from JOHN LEHMAN'S father. John is working for an education degree at the U. of Michigan. He served for six years in the Army Medical Corps. He and his wife Pat and son will be in Ann Arbor for two years. NICK KUEHN checking in from Aiken, S.C., where Nick is working for duPont at the Savannah River Lab. Nick has a Ph.D. in nuclear engineering from N.C. State. Nick is married, and has one girl and his wife is expecting a second baby. MIKE MAGUIRE reports that he's leaving the insurance business to go back into the sports films business in Minneapolis. He'll work for Sports, Films and Talents, Inc. JOHN LYNCH is promoting a bourbon named FIGHTING IRISH. The FighUng Irish Distributing Co. is headquartered in Louisville, Ky. 
Part of Terry Desmond's phone call recalled a sad note, the death of TY DEMETRIO last summer. Ty was a class officer in our senior year, and will be sorely missed by the class of '63. Please remember him and his family in your prayers. 
Thomas Hotopp 55 Churchill PI. Big Flats, N.Y. 14814 
'64 ON THE MOVE 
Air Force Lt. Col. William N. Jakomis is chief of the analysis branch in the headquarters of the Seventh/Thirteenth Air Forces at Udorn Royal Thai AFB, ThaUand. BRIAN J. BARNES and his wife Jane have moved from East Lansing, Mich., to Midland, Mich. He is now assistant manager of Sears, Roebuck & Co. in Midland. 
CHARLES O. VIMMERSTEDT has taken a position as marketing manager for a division of DEMAG at Solon, Ohio, near Cleveland. He is married to the former Mary Kathleen Hinsburg of Bloom­field Hills, Mich. He was formerly with Detroit Edison as an electrical engineer. 
JOHN W. O'CONNELL has been elected assistant secretary of the Irving Trust Co., One Wa'l St., New York. Dr. DAVID JAMES HICKMAN MS'64 has been appointed professor and chairman of the department of mathematics at Southern U. in New Orleans. He recently completed requirements for Ph.D. at ND. 

JON JAMES, a graduate in English at ND from 1966-69, is currently in his second year as an instructor of English at Chaminade College in Honolulu, Hawaii. This past summer, he won a grant from the Institute of International Education to attend Exeter College, U. of Oxford, England. DONALD J. KURTH JR. recently received his medical degree from the U. of Bologna, School of Medicine and Surgery, Bologna, Italy. Don has been residing in Italy practically full time since his graduation from ND in '64. KEN STINSON and his wife Joyce welcomed their first son in January. They are now living in Teaneck, NJ . 
Clay Stephens 

206 Marian Ave. 
Fanwood, NJ. 07023 

•65 BUSH BUYS INN 
Dr. DAVE BUSH is busy utilizing his medical talents in the field of family practice in the town of Manchester-by-the-Sea, located just north of Boston. Last June he married Mary Ann Tombers of Minneapolis and now they've bought a 34-room former inn as their home in this historic town. Invitations have been extended for any classmates visiting in the area. 
DOUG BRANSON, stiU a bachelor, is now associated with the firm of Hubachek, Kelly, Ranch and Kirley in Chicago. DAN MORELLO is serving a surgical residency at Hahnemann Medical College and Center in Philadelphia. Dan and his wife. Merry, are the parents of a second daughter, Elise Anne, bom in November. The other daughter. Amy, is now two years old. LEE MCCARTHY and wife, Bobbie, have expanded their family again. Patrick Thomas was bom in January. Lee's radio news reporting and analysis can often be heard on National radio programs. 
ED CAULFIELD is working for IBM in the digital equipment division as a computer salesman and last September he began full-time studies in the MBA program at the U. of Pittsburgh. Ed and his wife, Leslie, send a request that TOM FELLRATH, JOHN FISHER, 
JOHN GEARY and MIKE GHELARDI 
meet them on the steps of Sorin Hall 
at noon for Homecoming 11. 
CARL SORRENTINO completed his 
obligation with the Air Force last 
September, including a Vietnam tour which 
kept him from Reunion '70. Carl and 
his wife, Susan, are living in Colorado 
Springs where he accepted a position as 
classified advertising manager for the 
Colorado Springs Sunday newspaper. 
JIM CARROLL has retired from pro 
football and settled in Tampa, Fla., as the 
assistant general manager for Koons 
Northgate Ford, Inc. Last October, Jim's 
wife, Paula, presented him with a 
baby giri, Tara. 
My first year of medical residency is about completed and in July I will begin active duty with the Venereal Disease Division of the National Center for Disease Control, a branch of the Public Health. Tentatively the schedule calls for a two-year tour in Seattle, Wash., where most of my work will deal with the development and perfection of serological techniques in the diagnosis of gonorrhea. 
If this column is to survive, I definitely need material. Just the fact that you have a job and live somewhere is news. Please take a minute now to drop a note. 
James P. Hamisch, M.D. 
3700 Buford Hwy., Apt. 98 
Atlanta, Ga. 30329 
'66 GEARING UP! 
More from the many lives and worlds of the Men of '66. In my recent travels I talked with PAT DONAGHUE in Indianapolis who is currently law clerking but planning a move into government law or private practice in the near future. DENNY MACKIN, after getting a law degree from ND in '69, is now married and working for Arthur Anderson in the swinging city of the South, Atlanta. 
CAP CAGNON visited with RUSS LOVELL .recently in Kansas City. Russ has been law clerking and is planning a move to Indianapolis where he expects to work with the Legal Aid Society. JOHN BISHKO tells me that JOHN KLIER is currently completing his doctoral dissertation at the U. of Illinois and that BOB KRAUSE is teaching in a South Bend high school. 
A godsend! A letter containing mucho information just arrived from JIM GALLAGHER. Jim writes that he is practicing law for a large NYC firm and that he and Pat have two lovely daughters and a new home in Rockville Centre, 
L.I. Jim also writes of many more classmates: BRIAN CONNOLLY is a lawyer in Paterson, NJ., and he and wife Dianne have a son Sean and a home in Wayne. KEVIN CONWAY is also a barrister, practicing criminal law with the NYC Waterfront Commission. BILL JAMIESON is with Eastern Airlines out of NYC and he and wife Meg live in Manhattan. 
According to Jim, BOB CORCORAN is with Chemical Bank in NYC and supposedly tipped a few with MIKE CARROLL at Mike's costume Halloween party after the ND-Navy game in Philly. JERRY KENNEL is also with Chemical Bank and he and wife Pinky also reside on Long Island. DAVE TOUHY is with Allstate on the Island and he and Marilyn have two sons. PAUL 
RUBENACKER is out of the USMC and 
with Bristol Meyers in NYC, and is 
expecting a second addition to the family. 
CHARLIE McAULlFFE is practicing law 
in NYC and he and wife Barb reside 
in Westchester. 
Jim also says that GREG RUST, who 
still resides and works in Greensburg, Ind., 
recently visited with FRANK. DUNCAN 
who is with G.E. in Boston. The word 
is that Frank is inextricably in love. 
JOE SCHMIDT is reported to have 
contributed two children to the population 
explosion and currently works with 
Haskins & Sells out of NYC. NORM 

FINDLEY is out of the Navy and working 
in Westchester where he and Adrienne 
have a young son. DICK MILLER 
is a lawyer for the D.A.'s office in NYC 
and PAUL COOGAN is practicing 
criminal law on Long Island. 
Jim would also like to offer a public 
challenge to MIKE KRACH for a reunion 
rematch of their graduation race around 
St. Mary's Lake on campus. Jim 
says he doesn't figure Mike will win back 
the S5 he dropped on the contest 
almost five years ago. 
Speaking of Reunion '71, this is the last 
reminder you will see in the magazine 
before that great occasion June II, 12 and 
13. The Local Arrangements Committee, consisting of CAP GAGNON, DON BOUFFARD, LOU SHARP, RAY FLYNN, John Bishko and yours truly, recently sat down to begin preparations. Whatever arrangements we are able to make to ensure a memorable time for all will depend in large part on the financial con­dition of the class treasury, which at present is SOOO. After consulting with class president JOHN BUCK we have decided to attempt to build a treasury that will be used for numerous things through the years, including memorial Masses for classmates who die, fall football reunions and our five-year reunions. Whatever funds we accumulate will be kept in a local savings account in the name of the Class of '66. We are now asking that each of you forward a $5 check or money order to the CLASS OF '66 TREASURY, in care of TOM SULLIVAN, Development Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Now back to the reunion. While wives can in no way be included in official reunion activities, a number of guys have mentioned that they expect to bring their lovelies. We plan to reserve a bloc of rooms at a local motel in-the name of the class to be used by those bringing their wives. The rest of us will reminisce in the hallowed halls of Cavanaugh. We also plan to have a peripheral function or two for any wives that do come. As you might imagine, we will need to know how many of you expect to bring your better half to facilitate planning. 
To put it succinctly, the success and enjoyment of the upcoming reunion depend entirely upon one thing—whether YOU come. Remember, Monogram Men, that there is a Monogram golf tournament and banquet June 10 to which you all are invited free of charge. Plan now. 
Looking forward to hearing from each of you in the near future. 
Tom Sullivan (for) Dick Angelotti 4260 Clausen Western Springs, 111. 60558 
'66L LOOKS GOOD FOR REUNION 
By now each of you should have received a letter from me stating preliminary plans for the Reunion. If you haven't, write me immediately, and I will be in touch. It looks like we will have a good crowd. 1 received a card from BEN ASPERO who announced that he has opened two offices for the general practice of law at 17 North Harrison St., East Orange, NJ. 07017 and 1 Professional Quadrangle, Sparta, NJ. 07871. WALT TERRY (Diane) (Home: 40 Cherry St., Office: 22 Ditz St., Oneida, N.Y.) called to say he and his wife would be coming to the Reunion. Walt is in private practice and is the town's prosecutor. TOM HULL (Barbara) (31 David St., Binghamton, N.Y.) is coming also. 
TOM READY writes that he will be at the Reunion, and "will be bringing my golf clubs." RON and Mary Ellen VETTEL will be coming also, and they are now the proud parents of a baby boy named Michael. BOB KRAUSE says he is coming, as does JOHN GOTTLICK. TOM KENNEY, on leave from his law firm and a newly appointed assistant attorney general from Maryland, will be there also. JIM HAKES previously told me that he would be there, and Windy and AL McKENNA are coming also. 
JOHN HAUGH has formed a new partnership for the practice of law in Portland under the name of O'Connell, Goyak, Haugh & Loew. John is coming, too. 
I have received regrets from DEN SUNDERHAUS (11 Sutter St., Sixteenth Floor, San Francisco, Calif. 94104) who has given up his practice and teaching in Dayton to move to San Francisco, from PETE IPPOLITO who will not be back in the States until July when he will be looking to enter private practice, from MIKE SULLIVAN who had a prior family commitment on that date, from FRED MORELLI, who is now an assistant public defender in Kane County, 111., as well as in private practice. He and Maria have a little girl bom May 29, 1970, named Melissa. Fred's address is: 403 West Galena Blvd., Aurora, 111. 60506. 
Cookie and I will be driving out with the MURPHYs, and we all look forward to seeing you. I will be in touch soon with more definite arrangements. 
I was very pleased to receive copies of the many letters which apparently have flooded Father JAMES T. BURTCHAELL CSC, ND provost, suggesting that ED MURPHY be appointed permanent dean. If you haven't given your opinion to Fr. Burtchaell yet, I suggest you do it right away. 
Frank Gregory 5018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 
'67 OUT OF HIDING 
Great! More of your fellow classmates are coming out of hiding with each pub­lication. Obviously, the success of this column is dependent on you. Help keep this column's success story going. 
JOE CHRISTENSON writes from sunny but shaky L.A., Calif. After leaving ^ ND, Joe went with General Foods in Chicago, then spent some • time at U. of Western Michigan working on an MBA, and now finds himself employed by California's second largest bank. Security Pacific National Bank. As if his involvement with the writing of the bank's management training manual wasn't enough, Joe decided to tie the bonds of matrimony with the' former Maryanne Kearns (SMC'69) in June '69 and became the proud father of a little giri, Beth, last February. Also, Joe reports that both ' VINCE GURUCHARRI and TONY BESCHER should be well on their way to finishing their med school days from the U. of Chicago and Jefferson, respectively. Joe and" Tony were in attendance at Vince's wedding a year ago last December; and even then, Tony spoke of his upcoming wedding day—he declared that he will be getting married in May, but hasn't picked the year or the girl yet. 
We hear from JIM MONAHAN by way of his wife, Ann, who writes that they are now living in Areola, 111., .where Jim is in business with his father. They have two little girls, Melissa (3) and Erin (1). As one might suspect of our former basketball captain, he and Anne planned as usual to take in the Home­coming basketball game. TOM MURPHY took a quick time out during a football game on the "boob tube"—which admittedly is a great sacrifice—to fill us in on his whereabouts. Tom has received his MBA in marketing from Central Michigan U. as of Aug. '68. In February '69, he found himself exchanging vows with the former Sharon Loisel (SMC'67); and in April of that year, he joined Charter Carpet Corp. of Calhoun, Ga., as a manufac­turer's representative. Sharon and Tom are now playing the role of happy parents as of last October when their first, Molly Kathleen, arrived on the scene. Tom closes by encouraging "any of y'all that get down this way, we'd love to see you." 
GEORGE BRUTSCHER writes that he has been admitted to the Pennsylvam'a Bar and is practicing. law with the firm of Brutscher and D'Onofrio. He and his wife Georgia live in Kennett Square, Pa. BILL NORRITT informs us that he and his wife, the former Annebeth O'Sullivan (SMC'69), will be living in the Wash­ington, D.C. area soon where Bill will be associated with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith. As the father of two boys, Billy and Brendan, Bill claims that his sons are being geared for ND. We hear that BOB BAKER has joined the staff of Penn-Mor Mfg. Corp. at Tempe, Ariz.; that TED PURVEN has been promoted to senior associate quality engineer at IBM's Kingston, N.Y. plant; and that JAMES TRUMAN received his Ph.D. degree from the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard last July. 
MIKE COTTINGHAM and his wife, the former Helen Schnauss (SMC'69) write of their camping trip out West last summer which carried them through South Dakota, Idaho, Washington, Oregon and California, but they finally had to come back to home and reality in Cincinnati, O. While in Caliform'a ihey visited with the JOE MAGNANOs in Alameda (Joe's wife is the former Mickey Buerle, SMC'69). Mike is pursuing a master's degree at Xavier U. while Helen stays busy teaching fourth and fifth grades. 
Sister MARGARET ANN WILLING 

informs us that since her graduation with 
an MA in Music from ND, she has been 
teaching Music Theory and History 

at Briar Cliff College and, as secretary of 
the Siouxland Council of Arts and 

Sciences, has been an integral part in the 
launching of the council's month-long 
art festival. 
Motivated by the feeling of proud 

fatherhood, BOB NOFI writes that he and 
his wife Mary Ann became the parents 
of a 7-lb. 7-oz. beautiful baby girl, 
Lisa Ann, this past December. Bob is 
working as assistant to the V.P. of 

Cost and Budgeting for the Pension Trust 
Dept. of the Chase Manhattan Bank. 
In the evenings. Bob is studying toward 

his MBA at NYU. Speaking of proud 
parenthood, JoAnn and I are happy to 

announce the arrival of our first, a little 
girl named Loralee Anne. 

Our column contains an expression of 
sorrow upon learning that DANIEL 

TUTKO's sister, Linda, a follower of ND 
and a friend of many of Dan's associates, 
died in Rochester, Minn, this past 
September and that MICHAEL A. 

GAUGER's father passed away in October. 
Other newsmakers include: FRED K. 

DUREN who is working as a geohydrolo­
gist-civil engineer with an engineer 
consulting firm in the Pasadena, Calif, 
area; JOHN C. MACKAY who, after 
graduating from the U. of Michigan Law 

School and being admitted to the Ohio 
bar, is practicing law as an associate of 
Shumaker, Loop and Kcndrick in Toledo, 
O.; and JOSEPH L. KEHOE, who is 

pursuing his MBA at Emory U., and has 
been elected as a representative to the 
university senate. 

A note from JOSEPH PLUTA helps to revive that great sense of accomplish­ment felt on this past Jan. 1. Having gained his master's from ND in '68 and having recently completed his Ph.D. exams and while working on his dissertation, Joe has been teaching Eco­nomics at the U. of Texas for the past three years and admits that prior to New Year's Day it was getting a little unbearable listening to everyone brag about Texas football. Since then, Joe has seen it fit to decorate his campus office with a huge poster which reads— "To All Texas Longhorn Fans: 
Baylor and Rice may be in your class But Notre Dame sure kicked your a " Until next time—drop me a line. 
Jack Buttler 4023 Elaine PI. S. Columbus, Ohio 43227 
'67L GANGBUSTERS! 

President Nixon, faithful to his promise of fighting crime is assembling one of the most awesome arrays of legal talent in the Washington-Alexandria area. ROBERT BLAKEY, already aiding the Criminal Law and Procedure Subcommittee 
(Parent: Senate Judiciary) has called up two ex-smut smashers (from the law-school seminar of the same name) to the big leagues. The Dynamic Duo are KEN LAZARUS and FRANK CIHLAR. Ken brings to his new job his experience in the Criminal and Tax Divisions of the Justice Department. Frank, from his position as instructor at St. Louis Law School, brings himself. The Gangbusters specific task is the revamping of lltle 18 
of the U.S. Code. Related news is that 
Ken, Marilyn, Chip and Maggie Ann 
have bought their own home. Con­
gratulations will reach them (after April 1) 
at: 7231 Hadlow Dr., Springfield, Va. 
22152. It is located about 10 miles south 
of D.C. 
Not to be left out of things, Frank 

Cihiar will be married on June 4 to Miss 
Sandra Price, at the Bethesda Naval 
Chapel. Plans call for a Dutch priest 
to perform the ceremony in the Protestant 
chapel, with a Jewish best man assisting 
Frank. Chinese and Negro friends 
will be ushers. I think the reception will 
be held at U Thant's place in N.Y. 
My thanks to Beth KIRBY for keeping 

me current on their new address: 
Overlooking Terrace, Short Hills, NJ. 
JOHN, of course, is a patent attorney 
in N.Y. He is apparently working even 
harder than he did in law school. I 
hope to send out a questionnaire before 
too long asking all of you to bring me up 
to date with addresses and new family 
members. We'll need an accurate mailing 
list if we want a five-year reunion in 1972. 
Apparently, some of JACK COUCH'S old girl friends must be still trying to snare him. At least I suppose that was the reason that the information operator refused to give my secretary his phone number. How about dropping me a line. Jack? And that goes for the rest of you out there, too. 
Jim Heinhold 
16 Morris Rd. 
East Haven, Conn. 06513 
'68 IN HIBERNATION 
It seems as though most of the class has gone into hibernation for the winter. I hope when the spring thaw begins, the mail will pick up. 
JOE BLAKE informs us that he is 

stationed with the 3rd Marine Division in 
Vietnam. His address is: 1st Lt. J. G. 
Blake USMCR 0110556, I Btry. 3rd 
Battalion, 12th Marines 3rd Marine 
Division, FPO SF 96602. 
Congratulations to Sister MARY M. TEIPEN MBA 1968, on her election as provincial of the Sisters of Providence, Indiana Province, and her silver anniversary as a member of the community. 2nd Lt. JOHN F. BROWN is stationed at Elgin AFB, Fla. His squadron has received the U.S. Air Force Outstanding Unit Award for exemplary performance in operating the Free World's first space age radar system. 
Our deepest sympathies and prayers to the parents of CHUCK McENEARNEY who died on Dec. 11. His loss will be felt by all of us at Notre Dame. 
Lt PAUL TIMOTHY LEWIS is sta­tioned in Vietnam, near DaNang with the 11th Marines, 1st Marine Division. He enlisted one week after graduation and is now an air observer in helicopters. Recently he returned from Australia where he took his R and R. Tim finds his overseas stay very interesting, but misses home. 
All correspondence, effective April 1, 1971, should be sent to my new address: 
Leonard J. Pellecchia 1300 Rock Ave. L-5 North Plainfield, NJ. 07060 
'68L NEW ARRIVALS 
It is my pleasure to announce a few more new arrivals for the Class of '68. Christian James joined LARRY and Kathie MILLER on Valentine's Day. The STEVE MADONNAS had a baby daughter, JoAnn, about three months ago, and TOM and Carol WARD and JIM and Ann SECKINGER have had new baby boys (my source didn't give me their names). Tom plans to start teaching law at the 
U. of South Carolina next fall. 
A group of the class managed to get 
together to see the Fordham-ND disaster 
at the Garden. The group included DICK 
HIRSCH, now teaching at NYU, JOHN 
COYLE, now clerking for Judge Robert 
Shaw of the Federal District Court in 
Newark, PETE KING, TOM CURTIN, 
Steve Madonna and Larry Miller, plus 
some other alumni. Except for the outcome, 
a good time was had by all. 
Larry Miller asked me to urge everyone 
to try to get to the spring game in 
South Bend in early May. It would be a 
great chance for those who haven't 
seen each other since graduation to 
get together. 
That's it for now. 
Dennis Thelen 
7816 Lisa Drive, Apt. 202 
Norfolk, Va. 23518 
'69 TEACHER POPULAR 
Received an unusual letter last week from 
a female student of BOB SEARCH at 
Paul VI Regional High School in Clifton, 
NJ. Apparently Bob is very popular 
and highly respected as a geometry 
teacher. Are you married yet. Bob, or 
was that a sincere compliment? Her name 
will be divulged upon receipt of bribe. 
MIKE CERRE writes about the ND Club of Vietnam. It consists of DICK CIMINO, an Army draftee working in the computer field in Long Binh; MATT WHITE, another Army draftee who just recently sur\'ived two months in the bush in a mortar platoon near Chu Lai, and himself. Mike is a Marine lieutenant serving near Da Nang flying low-level reconnaissance planes. Much to his credit, Mike also has time to direct a civic action program at a school orphanage. They are teaching the kids English and sanitation. 
JIM DOYLE (i.e., James M.) is serving as a Peace Corps volunteer in Recife, Brazil. He's working with peasant art and craft cooperatives. Jim believes that with some sort of success co-ops can bring about community action and hopefully social change. In training, Jim met BOB HEIL. Bob is also working with co-operatives in rural electrification in Sergipe, Brazil. 
Lt. STAN DUR just finished an 18-month tour on the USS Massey. Next he will serve as a weapons officer on the USS Joseph Taussig out of Newport. In January, Stan did some skiing in Vermont with CHUCK METZGER. Chuck should have left for Vietnam in February. Both are enjoying the Navy and their single status. The military press service has revealed that Second Lt. JON MATURI is in the Air Weather Service unit at McClellan AFB, Cal., which provided data for the Apollo 14 recovery operation. Second Lt. RIP McCOY has been assigned to Luke 
AFB, Ariz., to fly the F-lOO Super 
Sabre fighter bomber aircraft with a unit 
of the Tactical Air Command. Lt. 
WALTER HARBORT received the Army 
Commendation Medal in Vietnam for 
meritorious service as commanding officer 
of a signal support agency near Tan Son 
Nhut. Second Lt. JOHN DEJAK has been 
awarded his silver wings upon graduation 
at Reese AFB, Texas. His next assignment 
is Cam Ranh Bay, Vietnam. Second Lt. 
TIM MESKILL has just completed a 
nine-week Air Defense artillery officer 
course at Fort Bliss, Texas. His wife, Joan, 
lived in H Paso during his training. 
We were deeply grieved to hear of the 
death of another good friend and class­
mate, HUGH (Bert) GALLAGHER 
of Pittsburgh, Pa. on Dec. 13. Our 
sympathy is extended to Bert's family and 
friends on such a tragic loss. 
Here is a letter from BILL COSTANINI 
which I'll quote directly for fear of 
deleting a vital sentence. 
"While sitting here waiting for the Irish 
to take the 'woo-woo' out of Texas, 
I thought it would be a good time to 
write. It's a long list so sit back with a 
good drink and indulge. 
"JOHN ClOFFI has quit Grumman Aircraft and is now working as a civil engineer for Consolidated Edison of New York. John is also in his second year at New York Law School and writing for the Law Review. BILL SIKORSKY is working for Grumman Aircraft as an aeronautical engineer while attending Brooklyn College for a degree in industrial management. Bill and John are spending their winter weekends skiing in Stratton, Vt. 
"DOUG and Cindy BREUNLIN (married Aug. '70) are living in Rocky River, Ohio and working in Cleveland. Doug is an aeronautical engineer for NASA working on the commercial development of the SST. PAUL GOUGH is also in Cleveland attending Case Western Reserve Law School and plans to marry 'Goldie' in January. RAY FISCHER is teaching high school in Toledo, Ohio. 
"FRANK CRINITI is still at ND, coaching and pursuing an MBA degree. Rumor has it Frank will marry this Spring. COLEY O'BRIEN is one of the ND law students spending this year in London, England. 
"BILL and Ellen TENUTO (married Nov. '70) are living in Cedar Grove, NJ. BUI is attending New York U. for a master's degree in sociology. I met KEVIN DAHILL at Bill's wedding. He has finished his course work for a master's degree in engineering at Georgia Tech and is presently living and working in Edina, Minn, while writing his thesis. 
"I had a couple of good drinks with CRAIG FENECH over Christmas vacation. Craig is attending law school at Cal. Berkeley and was recently elected student body president for all of Berkeley. While on the subject of law schools, BOB OSAR is at Cornell for law and is writing for the Law Review. DANE LUPO married Robin Alban (SMC '70) and is in his second year at Dickinson School of Law, Carlisle, Penn. 
"BOB and Roberta FEENEY were married in August of 1970. They're living in Port Jefferson, Long Island while Bob is teaching high school. ANTON KEMPS has yet to open a book while breezing through Jefferson Medical School in Philadelphia, Pa. "Abdul" plans to marry this Spring. MICHAEL "Gino" MARCHETTO is teaching delinquent boys in Columbus, Ohio while attending "that other school" for a real estate degree. He plans eventually to attend law school on the West Coast. JOHN TOBIN is working as an accountant in Hartford, Conn, and is proudly modeling his new "Tie City" seven inch tie. 
"JOE GARBROUS received a master of aerospace engineering degree from Michigan this summer and should presently be in flight training in Tallahassee, Fla. for the Marines. 
"PETE NARDI is at Colgate for an advanced degree in education and is working in their placement office. OLE SKARSTEIN is an architect in Oslo, Norway and is awaiting induction into the King's Army. DAN SARACINO is married and living in South Bend. He is working in ND's Admissions Office trying to involve more minority black, Chicano and poor white students in the ND experience. 
"EDDIE FITZPATRICK is killing time in Cortland, N.Y. waiting to see if his lottery number is more than his local board can handle. JIM KELLIHER is presently awaiting a draft appeal in Massachusetts by motorcycling around the country. DAVE STADTHERR will receive his master of aeronautical engineering degree from ND this Spring and will then enter the Army. BRIAN MURPHY is married and attending the U. of Tennessee for a Ph.D. in psychology. 
"JOHN DRIGGS is pursuing a Ph.D. in math from Michigan while AL ANDRE is after the same degree at Northwestern. BOB BURKE is in the Medical School at Michigan. BOB "Buck" BELDEN, when not throwing footballs for the Dallas Cowboys, is attending Michigan for an MBA degree. NICK BOZEN is also at Michigan for law. "Fast" EDDIE BRODERICK is serving in the National Guard as a chaplain's assistant and is still working on his first million. DAN WELTY is working in Dallas, Texas as an aero engineer and is awaiting his second child. His first child, a girl, has been put on a weight training program and plans to play football for ND. HUB and Kate MILLER are in Washington, D.C. while Hub serves his time in the Navy. KEVIN and Pat O'BRIEN are somewhere in Oregon. At last word Kevin was teaching while training for his mile run. JOHN and Sussie WEIRHEIM have moved to Hawaii where 
John is pursuing his career as a free­lance photographer. 
"JOE and Chris QUIGLEY are living in Bristol, Conn. 'Squid' is employed as an accountant. MARK WALSH and his wife are living in Florence, Italy where 'Pouch' is going to medical school. MIKE MILLIGAN, at last word, was touring Europe, engaged, and waiting to be drafted. Last but not least is HENRY WIENKIE who I believe is attending Loyola Med School in Chicago. Rumor has it that 'Wienkie' misses the 'little fishes' in Franklin Lakes, N.J. and that 'OZZIE' OSAR is still smiling. I'm at the U. of Michigan. I was made a teaching fellow this Fall and will receive my Master of City Planning degree in May and hope to attend either Columbia or NYU for law next Fall. Take good care. Peace," BILL COSTANTINI. 
Thanks so much for your letter, Bill. 
You certainly filled us in on a wide range of class members. Till the next issue—peace be with you all. 
Mike Neumeister 
64 West Winspear Ave. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14214 
'69L FACT OR FICTION 
I had the opportunity to speak with GEORGE BALL during the latter part of January. He says that he enjoys his work in the workmen's compensation department of General Motors, and that he and Mary plan to remain in the Detroit area. George is in somewhat frequent contact with Cathy and JIM BRADY and with TOM McCUSKER. 
I am in receipt of a brief note advising 
that BOB O'CONNOR has joined the 
ranks of our married classmates and that 
he and his wife, Mary, can be reached 
at the following address: 1101 N. Farns­
worth. Apt. 206, Aurora, III. 60504. 
JIM ZAK passed through Denver in 
January while in seach of a home in this 
area. He and Pat will be moving West 
at the expiration of Jim's clerkship with 
Judge ROBERT GRANT '28 in 
South Bend. 
Correspondence from you, fellow '69ers, must increase dramatically if my next column is not to be purely fictional. Please drop a line at your convenience. 
Scott Atwell 
500 Continental Natl. Bk. Bldg. 
Englewood, Colo. 80110 
'69 MBA SAFARI ~ 
Congratulations to JOHN and Rita KNITTEL on the birth of their second child and first daughter. Colleen Anne. Colleen arrived on Jan. 5. John obviously has to have a serious talk with Rita regarding the Internal Revenue Service regulations regarding exemptions. 
JACK O'BRIEN was recently in St. Louis visiting his sister. Jack couldn't squeeze in a visit to the Cavato home but did check with us by telephone. Jack is working for Ford in a purchasing posiU'on and living in suburban Detroit. He has frequent contact with two other class members who reside in the Motor City, TOM SANNA and DAVE DAY. We are pleased to pass along the unconfirmed rumor that Dave is flirting with the prospect of marriage. This rumor awaits confirmation by "informed sources." 
An all-time record for distance of correspondence was set recentiy when we received a card from Nairobi, Kenya. NICK WALZ and his wife Sara are traveling in Africa and had just completed a safari. No word of any big game conquests, but the post card did have a picture of an elephant. Anyway, the trip sounded sensati'onal. 
Well, as you can tell from the length of the column, the news was pretty sparse. Be sure to keep us informed of any changes in jobs, addresses, or any other items of interest. If anyone has any news on any of the class members from whom we haven't heard in a long while, pass it on so we can share the informa­tion with the class. 
Joe Cavato 7122 Vernon University City, Mo. 63130 
'70L PASSES BAR AND CPA 
Congratulations are in order for TOM 

DE LUCA. Not only did he pass the Ohio 
bar this past fall, but he also passed his 
CPA exam this past November! Tom 
is working for an accounting firm 

in Dayton, while Joan is a teacher's aide 
for second, third and fourth-grade classes. 
They report that PAT and Pam 

McDAVITT have settled near Minneapolis, 
and that STEPH and Madge DeSALES 
are settled in California. Both Pat and 
Steph have been admitted to the bar 
in their respective states. 

Babies are in the news at this writing. 
JOE and Nancy KANE welcomed Julie 
Elizabeth into the world on Jan. 20. 
DON and Maureen SCHUERING 
announced the arrival of Christopher 

Donald on Jan. 24. Both families are doing 
well. Incidentally, Don and Maureen's 
address is 7813 Antioch, Shawnee 
Mission, Kan. 66204. 
DICK BLUMBERG was transferred 

from Fort Benjamin Harrison in December 
and is presently stationed at Fort Hood, 
Texas. He reports that he is assistant 
chief. Personnel Actions, Personnel 
Services Division of the 1st Armored 
Division. 

DAN KRUSE completed his six months 
active duty in the Army in January. He 
recently became associated with the 
firm of Keating, Muething & Klekamp 
in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Joseph E. Kane 
5465 Kenwood Rd., Apt. 401 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45227 
BOSTON 

ND Night at Suffolk Downs was held in October and we had a good turnout. The reception for the ND Hockey team after the ND-BC encounter in December was a tremendous success. Congratulations to DAVE FAY '60 and JACK KARLE '56, co-chairmen. The frosting on the cake was the solid win over BC by the Fighting Irish. 
Mike O'Toole '55 
BUFFALO 

The Buffalo Club held a general meeting on 
Feb. 4 which was attended by both new 

and old members. Some of the recent graduates of the University told us "how it is" now and it was an eye-opener for us older types. It is hard for us to conceive of a Catholic university where the obligation to attend Sunday Mass is treated Ughtly by some of the priests responsible for teaching (in its broadest sense) at the University. Progress is fine, if it's progress. All change, however, is not for the best. The best ideas do not necessarily triumph—not unless they are strongly believed in by strong men. 
On Feb. 24, the Buffalo Club co­sponsored a discussion, "New York State Politics and the Media," at Buffalo State College. Panelists included former Con­gressman Richard McCarthy and former City Councilman Ned Regan. The Club held its annual Retreat on the weekend of Match 19. RICHARD WAGNER was the shepherd who worked tirelessly to bring the sheep to pasture. On April 1, the Club held its first Night with the Buffalo Sabres, the new and successful Buffalo entry in the National Hockey League. 
Marvin J. LaHood '58 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
The Connecticut Valley ND Club started the new year with a successful business meeting at which plans were made for the coming year. Vice President BILL MCCAFFREY '60 reported on the fourth annual Knute Rockne Award which was presented at the Hartford Times annual scholastic football banquet. The award is intended to honor a greater Hartford football player or coach whose performance and character, on and off the gridiron, reflect the Rockne tradition. This year, as in the past three years, the award went to a coach—Tony Apisso of New Britain High. PHIL WALKER '54 made the presentation of the award on behalf of the Club. 
JIM CASSIDY '62 again offered his services as chairman of the annual Com­munion Supper on March 14. Jim's enthusiasm for this event has made it the success that it is. 
BOB DALTON '49 organized a bus trip to Madison Square Garden for the ND-Fordham basketball game. Except for the score the trip was a real success and our thanks to Bob for the time and effort which he gave to this project. Initial plans were made for UND night by selecting a volunteer to be chairman of this event MIKE LONG '64 was a 
unanimous selection. 
And finally, the Club would like to extend its congratulations to Dr. ED ANDERSON '22 on his election to the College Football Hall of Fame. 
Paul J. Sanner '62 
CfflCAGO 
On Feb. 26 at St. Ignatius High School, the ND Club of Chicago launched its first annual Liturgical event. Featured were the We Together Singers from South Bend, Ind., and Rev. WILLIAM TOOHEY CSC, director of campus ministry at ND. A representative turnout, despite inclement weather, thoroughly enjoyed the event which began with a mostaccioli and meatball dinner, prepared by Brother Cardosi of St. Ignatius. Fr. Toohey deUvered an inspired talk and celebrated Mass. The We Together Singers entertained throughout the course of the evening. The spiritual event proved to be rewarding for those in attendance and promises to be an annual event with widespread support, brought about largely by PAT MONTROY, ND Club President. The co-chairmen of the event were BILL MADDUX and DON STEPHAN. 
On April 26 the Club will hold its Universal ND Night at the newly rebuilt McCormick Place on Chicago's lake front. An expected turnout of approximately 1,200 people will hear an address by Rev. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC. For the first time, the event will be a co-ed evening with wives of the Club members invited. The Annual Award presented by the Chicago Club for decency in entertainment will be presented to Myron Cohen, well-known nightclub and television entertainer. In the past this award has been presented to: Don McNeill, 1960; Rev. John S. Banahan, 1961; Television Station WTT\V, 1962; Leo G. CarroU, 1963; Bob Newhart, 1964; Jimmy Durante, 1965; Pat O'Brien, 
LITURGICAL EVENT—In attendance at the ND Chicago Club's first annual Liturgical Event were (lejt to right): Don Slephan '64, co-chairman; Rev. William Toohey CSC, director of Campus Ministry at ND; John Macheca '62, Midwest regional development director for ND; Don Clifford, director of the We Together Singers; Pat Montroy '53, club president, and Bill Maddux '57, co-chairman. 
1966; Ray Bolger, 1967; Wally PhUlips, 1968; Edgar Bergen, 1969, and George Gobel, 1970. Co-chairmen for the event will be BOB LEE and TOM McNAMARA. 
BiU CahiU '58 
CINCINNATI 
The annual St. Patrick's Dinner-Dance was 
held March 12 at the Hyde Park Country 
Club. The dance was a great success, and 
Mrs. Andrew Barton Jr., chairman of 
the dance is to be congratulated, along 
with her fine committee. LARRY NIKLAS 
'63 won the first annual Irish Jig Contest 
while HARRY PATH also of '63 consumed 
the most green beer. Many Irish tunes 
were sung and a good time was had by all. 
On Feb. 17, TIM HUGHES '61, 
managing editor of the ALUMNUS 
Magazine, and three ND students (Ed 
Davey '71, Mike Hawes '71 and Tim 
Feeley '72) joined the Cincinnati alumni 
at Zino's Restaurant After the showing of 
the NBC film "Shake Up the Echoes," 
a group discussion followed concerning 
aspects of the ND student life as it exists 
today. This proved to be most interesting, 
and it provided the alumni the opportunity 
to learn more about the changing 
University. 
Larry DiNardo, *71, football captain, 
was honored April 2 at the local chapter 
of the National Football Foundation's 
Fourth Annual Awards Dinner at the 
Cincinnati Club. Also honored was Rex 
Kern of Ohio State. Larry received 
the 1970 Special Award, and a scholarship 
for post-graduate study. 
Tom Eagen '66 
DALLAS 
The Dallas Club finally has recovered from the Cotton Bowl and is ready to get started on our 1971 schedule of events. First was a corporate communion on March 27, followed by a family-style dinner, chaired by MIKE McDONOUGH '62, a newcomer to our club. Next on the agenda is Universal ND Night on April 26 at the City Club here in Dallas. Larry DiNardo will be our speaker that night and a large crowd is anticipated. 
Once again, JOHN RONAN '54, Club President, wants to thank all of our members and the many guests that made the Cotton Bowl such a success for all concerned. He also is pleased that we have already booked over 50 dues payers for the new year and are hoping to top last year's 152 record. 
Chick Martin '59 
DEARBORN 
Yes, there is still a ND Club of Dearborn! Although the secretarial staff has been rather complacent, the club membership has not been without an abundant supply of activities. 
DON MULLANEY '52 was chairman of last fall's football outing to South Bend for the Purdue game (how sweet it was!). Ten couples from the area enjoyed a full weekend with indoor swimming at Howard Johnson's, dining at Schuler's, football at the stadium and, of course, someone managed to locate the local Friday night October-Fest. Club President BILL DECRICK '53 was kind enough to chauffeur the group throughout Southern Michigan/Northern Indiana in his "Mobile Winnebago Rathskeller." November saw the return of several of the hardier members for a stag weekend at the Pitt game. Anyone in the vicim'ty of Gate 12 must have noticed that same mobile home parked from Friday to Sunday! Although a few of the more fortunate members were in Dallas on New Year's Day (JOE BYRNE '52 doesn't miss too many), the remainder of the fans celebrated at BILL DECRlCK's home— and celebrate we did! 
January featured the Annual Dinner-Dance which was held at the Lincoln Inn in Lincoln Park, Mich. Chairman GEORGE BALL '46 orgam'zed another great one, and DICK KING '37 ran the raffle. Our congratulations to LARRY BEAUPRE '63 for his dual achievement in acquiring both a new bride and a Ford Motor Company promotion during the month of December. 
That brings us up to date, and with a little luck we will try to stay that way. 
J. Michael Williams '66 
DAYTON 
A lot of the Dayton area alumni were breathing a bit easier after the last 13 seconds and three missed shots of the second annual Dayton-ND basketball game of March 1. The down-to-the-wire victory by NDlets the alumni here recoup their lost pride of a year ago when Dayton humbled us all. Congratulations, Irish! 
A Club-sponsored TV party for the game was well attended by Club members and their invited U. of Dayton friends at the Dayton Arena lounge. Beer, cocktails, ham, turkey and chips were provided for the hungry rooters. It was a good time enjoyed by all. Our thanks to LARRY DONLIN '65, TV party chairman. 
A lively discussion greeted TIM HUGHES '61, ALUMNUS editor and three University students on their recent visit to Dayton. Approximately 25 Club members participated in the discussion on the "new" campus life, Feb. 18 at Gulp's Far Hills. The topics ranged from coeducation at ND to war protests. A mutual respect and understanding for both sides permitted an open and honest rap. 
The word's, out in Dayton that Ara will be available for a speaking engagement some time in May. The Club is feverishly planning for the day when the No. 1 of collegiate football meets the No. 1 of SUMMA. 
James E. Ireton '66 
DECATUR 
PAT NOLAN convened a luncheon meeting with DAN CAREY, JOHN DUNN and myself Jan. 26, at which time our club calendar was set as follows: 
April 23, ND Night, chairman, John Dunn; June 15, Golf Outing, chairman, JOHN SHIEL; Fall, Bus Trip, chairman, Dan Carey; Oct. 21, Annual Meeting, chairman, BOB UHL; Jan. 19, 1972, Guitar Mass, chairman, JOHN LANIGAN. 
Stephen G. Graliker '42 
FLORIDA WEST COAST 
Th6 Florida West Coast Qub held its 
annual Communion Breakfast Sunday, Jan. 
24, at the Jesuit High School Chapel, 
Tampa. 
Rev. Frank Mouch, diocesan director of 
education, offered Mass for over 80 
Alumni parents and friends. A catered 
steak-and-eggs breakfast followed Mass 
and after breakfast, Fr. Mouch gave a talk 
on the future of CathoUc primary and 
secondary education. 
Club members also had time to welcome 
a new member, JIM CARROLL, '64 
captain of the Fighting Irish to 
the Florida West Coast. 
President GENE BITTNER announced 
that the Club will hold a Universal 
ND Night May 18 (Tuesday) with featured 
speaker, ND's assistant football coach, 
Tom Pagna. 
Robert F. Shannon '58 
GREATER MIAMI 
The Club held its first meeting for 1971 on Jan. 28. The first order of business was the election of officers for the forthcoming year. The names, offices and addresses of the officers are: 
GEORGE F. HERO '52, president, 40 
N.E
 75 St., Miami, Fla. 33138; DENIS P. TURNOCK '57, vice president, 15305 Palmetto Lake Dr., Miami, Fla. 33156; RICHARD H. RUPP '56, treasurer, 825 Ortega Ave., Coral Gables, Fla; CHARLES 

P.
 SACHER '61, secretary, 922 duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131. 


After the election of officers, the program for the forthcoming year was discussed. The Club is looking forward to having the Fighting Irish play in the Orange Bowl in October and plans are already under way to make that weekend a memorable one. Additionally, the Club plans to conduct its Annual Picnic and Father-Son Night. The Club hopes to stimulate more family interest by having a Family Ni^ t at one of the Baltimore Oriole games and by having a Football Night with the coach of the University of Miami, NICK BUONACONTI and Joe Theismann if he signs with the Dolphins. 
The Club looks forward to an active year and one which, hopefully, will stimulate more camaraderie among the Notre Dame men in Greater Miami. 
Charles P. Sacher '61 
KENTUCKY 
The Kentucky Club would like to con­gratulate Coach JOHNNY DEE and all the Fighting Irish for their very convincing win over Rupp's Wildcats. I understand most members started the new year most successfully. The Club also wishes to thank TOM HELRINGER for giving a party for the ND basketball team after the game. 
Our scholarship committee this year consists of: BILL SHERMAN '58, chair­man, and GERRY BOLAND '63, JOHN HOECK '48, RICK REMMERS '59 and PAT DUFFY '64, assistants. The board will meet April 13 to decide on the winner. 
I would like to remind all members that Universal ND Night is April 20—set this date aside! Our speaker will be Father TOM CHAMBERS, director of the 
Student Residence, assisted by a few 

of his students. Alumni will be able to hear 
a firsthand account of life today at the 
University. Chairman for this event 

is DON MOSER '56. Don has enlisted 
Mrs. RICHARD BOLAND to assist him 
in soliciting member participation. 

A general club meeting will take place 
March 10, chairman RUSS RAQUE '60, 
assistant Don Moser. The highlights 

of the meeting will be the football film 
and selection of new officers. The Club 
would like to thank Gerry Boland for a 
very successful two years. Gerry has done 
an outstanding job as president and will 
continue to work for the club as the new 
chairman of the Board of Directors. 
Thanks for everything Gerry and good 
luck to your successor. 

I would like to announce that the club did the best ever on the Super Bowl Raffle and sale of ND-Ky tickets. This has given us a tremendous start towards offering another scholarship next year. Thanks go to all our hard working salesmen and especially chairmen ROGER HUTER '40 and BILL SHERMAN. 
STEVE RICKERT '63 says we still need more dues-paying members—so let's get the dues in! Anyone who wishes to become more active in the club please contact any of the officers or directors. We do need more participation of members. For some time now the same members have done all the work. I know more would like to become involved, but haven't been asked. We are going to try to remedy this in the near future. By the way, Don Moser could use assistance on UND Night. Let's all get behind Don and make this the most successful UND Night ever. Don't forget, April 20. 
Michael D. Casper '64 
MEMPHIS 

Our annual membership meeting was held at Tim McCarver's Restaurant on Feb. 25, 1971. The following were in attendance: TOM WHITMAN '59, PAT ARNOULT '60, CHARLES KENNEY '63, TED WERNER '65, GERRY FINNEY '54, DAN CANALE '42, DAVE SAXON '58, GENE McDERMOTT '60, LEE PIOVARCY '63, LOU SAMPSON '48, AUSTIN HALL '26, T. F. DOHOGNE '27, GEORGE DOUGLASS '57, CLARENCE COLBERT '59, ED ANGIER '49, MERECERE COLLINS '59, ANDREW DONAHUE '58, EUGENE PODESTA '48, BUD DUDLEY '43, JOE SIGNAIGO '45, PERCY ROBERTS, PAUL SHARP, STEVE ZEBER '65, PAT O'MALLEY '55, CHARLES SCHAFFLER '63. 
New officers elected to serve until March 31, 1972, are as follows: President: Charles Schaffler; vice president: Pat O'Malley; secretary: Gene McDermott; treasurer: Lee Piovarcy, and board of directors: Joe Signaigo, Bud Dudley and Dan Canale. 
The new officers announced the schedule of activities for the following year: March 17, 1971—^SL Patrick's Day party, honoring the ND baseball team, which will be here for games with Memphis State and CBC. April 21, 1971—Universal ND Night with the Rev. THOMAS E. CHAMBERS CSC of the University as featured speaker. November 19, 20 and 21 —Bus trip to New Orleans and Baton 
Rouge for ND-LSU game. December 5, 

1971—Communion Breakfast. March, 1972 
—Election Smoker. 

In addition to enjoying much good fellowship,,the members in attendance were treated to one last glance at "Little Joe" by virtue of the 1970 Football Highlights film. A good time was had by all and we are looking forward to an outstanding year, beginning with the first visit in many years of an Irish athletic squad to our city. 1 refer of course to the baseball squad, which we are looking forward to entertaining on St, Pat's Day. 
Charlie Schafiler '63 
NASHVILLE 
On March 10 the ND Club of Nashville held its biennial election of officers at the 
K. of C No. 544 Council Building on Bosley Springs Road. 
The meeting was called to order by R. MARTIN. The following Club members were in attendance: DICK MARTIN '54, FRED SWINT '31, CHUCK ZUZAK '57, LOU DAUGHERTY '51, NEIL DROZESKI '62, FRANK RHODES '59, AL ABBEY '51, JIM BREEN '62, PAT CARROLL '34, DICK BEVINGTON '48, LARRY FREANT '63, JUDE LENAHAN '66, BILL FAIMON '54, MIKE PHILBIN '68, PAT McREDMOND '66, PAUL HEER '57, NICK VARALLO '63, JOHN KURTZ '55, LARRY MANDYCK '62. 
R. Martin commented on JIM COONEY's (Executive Director of Alumni Assoc.) recent visit to Nashville and explained the purpose of his trip—seeking alumni response to the alternatives available to St. Mary's-ND future affiliation. 
The membership voted their approval of 

MOST VALUABLE—James F. Slatlery 'SO, President of the ND Club of New York, presents most valuable player trophy to Austin Carr at the conclusion of the St. John's-ND basketball game, Feb. 27. Carr, who scored 32 points, was voted winner of the trophy by members of the press who were present at the game won by the Irish, 92-79. The trophy is donated by the ND Club of New York and awarded at the end of each ND-St. John's game played in New York. 
two constitutional amendments to the . 
charter whereby the former position of 
Club secretary-treasurer be split into two 
separate offices—secretary and treasurer. 
In addition, the outgoing president would 
become an ex-officio member of the Board 
of Directors which also consists of the 
active officers of the Club. 
The new officers chosen to lead the Club during the next two-year term are: Nick Varallo '63, President; Paul Heer '57, Vice President; Jim Breen '62, Secretary; Frank Rhodes '59, Treasurer; and Rev. JOHN HENDRICK '57, Chaplain. 
Plans are being developed to celebrate 

Universal ND night on Saturday, April 24th. 
The exact details of the affair will be the 
responsibility of the new officers. The Rev. 
Thomas Chambers, will be the guest 
speaker. 
The Club members then viewed "1970 

Notre Dame Football Highlights" without 
the benefit of any filmstrip on the Cotton 
Bowl game with the Longhoms of Texas. 
The film received good response and we 
are all looking forward to a successful 
1971 season. 
Paul Heer '57 
NEW YORK 
Six new directors, ranging from the Class of "20 to the Class of '62, have been elected by the ND Club of New York for three-year terms. They are: (New York City) JOHN T. BALFE '20 and JOHN MAHONEY '55; (Westchester-Rockland-Putnam counties) HENRY McCOR-MACK '52 and FRANCIS P. McFAD-DEN JR. '60; (Long Island) AL LESMEZ '45 and ROBERT BILL '62. They replace retiring directors: TOM BRADLEY '30 and GENE MAGUIRE '49 from West­chester-Rockland-Putnam; GORDON FORESTER '47 and JORDAN HAR­GROVE '35 from Nassau-Suffolk; and JIM GRIFFIN '47 and JOHN GRUNING '27 from New York City. 
Welcome to all the newly elected members of the board and sincere thanks to the retiring directors who participated in approximately 27 meetings over a three-year span as well as serving as chairmen for various club functions. 
As his parting effort, Tom Bradley is chairman of the Club's Annual Retreat, held the weekend of April 29-May 2 at St. Ignatius Retreat House, Man­hasset, L.I. 
Another retiring director. Gene Maguire is working with GERRY SAEGERT '40 and CHARLIE KOEGLER '47 to assure the success of Universal ND Night, April 23, at Westchester Country Club, Rye, N.Y., scene of many famous golf classics. Rev. JAMES T. BURTCHAELL CSC, University provost, is the honored guest and principal speaker. 
Metropolitan area alumni turned out in large numbers to support the ND basketball team in two incursions of the New York area during February. On Feb. 18, the magic name of ND and Fordham's excellent record helped to turn out the largest crowd ever to see a college basketball game in New York City, 19,500, at Madison Square Garden. But it was a losing venture. Nine days later, the Irish returned to defeat St. John's on the latter's court, 92-79. Again, the crowd of more than 6,000 was the largest to see a St. John's home game this season. Austin Carr, who scored 32 points, 
was presented with the most valuable 
player award by JIM SLATTERY '50, 
president of the ND Club of New York, 
donor of the trophy. 
The club also joined with the Sales 
Executives Club of New York in sponsoring 
the appearance of Coach Ara Parseghian 
at a special Waldorf-Astoria Hotel 
luncheon on St. Patrick's Day. Another 
packed house. 
Other ND clubs, especially those in large 
metropolitan areas, may be interested in 
the results of a survey of dues-paying 
members of the ND Club of New York. 
Of 2,500 ND alumni listed as living in 
the New York metropolitan area, 
665 or better than 26 per cent paid their 
SIO dues in 1970. Of the 665 dues-
paying members, 51 are listed as parents or 
friends. Of the 614 remaining, four are 
pre-1920 alumni, 39 graduated in the 
twenties, 113 in the thirties, 86 in the forties, 
156 in the fifties and 216 in the 
Soaring Sixties. 
New arrivals in the New York area are invited to call the ND Club Office, 420 Lexington Ave., New York City, 10017 (212 685-4254) if they wish to be put on the mailing list and membership roster. 
John Powers '43 
NORTH FLORIDA 
First meeting of 1971 for the ND Club of North Florida was held on Feb. 25. JIM COONEY, Executive Director of the Alumni Association, was our guest speaker. Subject discussed was the Park-Mayhew Report. During the business meeting, the new officers of the Club were introduced: THOMAS M. BAUMER '61, president; TIMOTHY J. LYNCH '61, vice president; C. DENIS O'SHAUGH­NESSY '61, secretary; MICHAEL J. BURNS '69, treasurer. 
The Second Annual Kick-Oil Cocktail 
Party was scheduled to be held at the home 
of BOB ANDREWS on March 26. 
Preliminary plans were laid for Universal ND Night on Thursday, May 20, at Strickland's Town House. Guest speaker will be Tom Pagna. 
That's all for now. 
C. D. O'Shaughnessy '61 
OHIO VALLEY 
A dinner meeting of the Ohio Valley ND Club was held on Jan. 27 at Figaretti's Restaurant, Elm Grove, Wheeling, W.Va. 
After dinner FRANCIS WALLACE '23 explained the National Sport and Trophy Library which is being established on the ND campus. Any sports-connected trophy, photograph or manuscript, whether concerning ND or not, will be welcomed. It is the purpose of this organization to obtain and preserve these findings for future generations. At present all gifts are being assembled at the ND Library. Later this material may be housed in a separate building at ND. Wallace asked Harry Hamm, editor of the Wheeling News-Register, to aid in publicizing this endeavor locally. 
President BILL BUCH '60 read a letter from ROBERT A. ERKINS '47, presi­dent of ND Alumni Association, asking for comments on the Park-Mayhew Report on co-education at Notre Dame. 
Also discussed was the Oct. 16 ND Observer account of the Ti-Grace Atkinson appearance, a letter by the editor of Our Sunday Visitor and Father Hes­burgh's reply. (These were covered in the December 1970 ALUMNUS.) These accounts started a wave of indignation of various degrees, exceeded only by that expressed in our meeting of April 1, 1970. The criticism at the present meeting was more constructive, however, because everyone was concerned about the good name and future success of ND. Erkins asked for comments from Alumni before Feb. 3 to take them to the Board of Trustees meeting. Since there was some disagreement about the contents of a letter from the club. President Bill Buch asked all alumni to write personal letters to Erkins. 
Also discussed were the proposed 
annexation of the ND campus by South 
Bend and the possible merger of ND and 
SMC into a co-ed university. 
Present at the meeting were: Nancy and 
BOB GRIFFITH '49, Rachael and BOB 
SINCAVICH '50, Madelyn and RAY 
KEYS '49, Kathleen and Dr. BILL 
ACKERMANN '33, Evelyn and BILL 
MITSCH '33, LARRY BONENBERGER 
'64, FRANK SIMONIC '63, BILL BUCH 
'60, HARRY BUCH '52, LLB '55, JIM 
HARANZO '52, JOE SARGUS '49, RUSS 
RICKUS '34, BILL DUSCH '34, 
GEORGE SARGUS '28, FRANK WAL­
LACE '23 and Harry Hamm. 
Local alumni were grieved at the sudden death of REYMAN (Bud) BONAR '35 on Nov. 20 while listening to the ND-LSU football game. Bud played on the ND football team in '32, '33 and '34. After college he played for the Ottawa Rough Riders and coached at North Carolina State and U. of Cincinnati. After service in WWII he returned to Bellaire, Ohio, to become athletic director for the Bellaire school system. He is survived by his wife Lucille. 
Thomas Varias, son of GUS VARLAS '47, died Jan. 18 of injuries received a week earlier in an automobile accident. All local alumni extend their sympathy to Gus, his wife Elizabeth and sons, Richard, Robert and James. 
Bill Mitsch '33 
PEORIA 
The Fighting Irish Frosh basketballers visited Peoria on Feb. 27 to play the Bradley U. Frosh. A large group of local alumni attended the game and afterwards DENNIS POWERS '56 and his wife, Pat, had the team for dinner at their home and the local grads and friends of ND for a grand party. We all enjoyed meeting the players and coaches although the mood was slightly depressed by the result of the game which we lost 105-79. Our regular first Friday luncheons at the YMCA continue to be well attended and a good chance for alumni to gather. We recommend the practice to other clubs. 
Mike Ryan '64L 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA 
The San Francisco Bay Area ND Club in conjunction with the San Jose ND Club and with the St. Francis Chapter of the Knights of Columbus sponsored the only Northern California performance by the ND Glee Club. A lively and enter­taining concert was held at the San Francisco Opera House on March 16 and a champagne reception followed. During the concert Mayor Joseph Alioto of San Francisco presented Glee Club director Daniel Pedtke with a plaque commemorating his years of untiring service to the University and to the Glee Club. MIKE JOYCE '62 acted as chairman for the event and is to be congratulated for his services. The club extends its sincere thanks to the ND Glee Club for offering to perform in San Francisco, and we hope that the event can become an annual affair. 
Universal ND Night is .fast upon us. The annual affair has been scheduled for April 14 and as has been the tradition for several years, a panel of three speakers will be provided by the University. Heading the speakers this year will be EDWARD (Moose) KRAUSE and this fact alone should insure the success of the dinner. A notice will be forthcoming shortly concerning reservations. 
Admission Night under the guidance of JIM DONOHUE '48 is also on the calendar for the spring. Working closely with the Club's admission committee, Jim will hold an "evening at Notre Dame" for all local applicants to the University. In the past, this has been one of the most beneficial and best received events. 
During the past several weeks, I had occasion to run into two old classmates: JOE KEATING '61 and JIM LYDEN '61 which reminded me that any alums who have moved into the San Francisco Bay Area and who wish to be included in the Club's mailings and events should contact me. The Club's annual meeting of members, of which further notice will be forthcoming, promises to be the best ever. Included will be highlights of the Cotton Bowl game. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
SAN JOSE 
Our general meeting and election of officers was held on March 3. The new officers for the two-year term I97I-1972 are: DOUG ZILLIOX '60, president; RAY 
J. HUMECKE '49, vice president; LARRY NEWMAN '59, treasurer, and MAURY DEWALD '62, secretary. The meeting was followed by refreshments and the 1970 football highlights which were truly enjoyed by all. 
In co-operation with the San Francisco Club and the Bay Area K of C's, the club sponsored a ND Glee Club Concert on March 16 at the San Francisco Opera House. The concert was absolutely great. Hopefully, we can make this an annual event with a performance in the San Jose area. The proceeds are used to build the club's Scholarship Fund and to support the local CCD program. Thanks to Maury DeWald and Doug Zilliox who directed the club's efforts and helped make the concert a success. 
The annual Universal ND Night will be held on April 15 and should prove to be the best yet. Our speaker will be ED (Moose) KRAUSE, the athletic director at ND. Be sure not to miss this one. 
Keep those dues flowing in, heaven knows we need them; S8 to our treasurer at 
3421 Carobwood Ct., San Jose. Alumni 
new in the area please contact our 
secretary at 253-6079. 

Remember our monthly luncheons, the second Tuesday of every month. Place: Howard Johnson's in San Jose at N. 1st & Bayshore. Time: Noon. 
Dan Bencze '64 
ST. LOUIS 

The Second Annual Metropolitan St. Louis St. Patrick's Day Parade was held in downtown St. Louis on Saturday afternoon, March 13. The parade was headed by Jack Lynch, prime minister of Ireland, and his wife Maureen who flew here for the occasion. Gov. Warren Heames, Mayor A. J. Cervantes, St. Louis County Supervisor Lawrence Roos and numerous other labor, civic and business leaders also were at the front of the 102 units that participated. JOE McGLYNN '55, one of the originators of the parade, headed the parade committee and, as a result of the ND Club of St. Louis' cosponsorship, a large number of alumni participated in the organizational efforts. Notable among them, besides Joe McGIynn, were DICK ASH '54 and BILL OTTEN '62. Area alumni, family and friends marched with the St. Louis Club float and all enjoyed the festivities. Later in the afternoon, a reception was held for Prime Minister Lynch at the Mansion House Center. 
Bill Otten reports that the Scholarship Committee has processed the applications from high school seniors and will present the recipient to the Club at UND Night. There were an exceptionally large number of well-qualified young men applying this year and the committee requests the financial support of all area alums in this very important activity. Bill Otten indicated that summer jobs are needed for incoming freshmen as well as upperclassmen. 
There are two future events that should be attended by all area alumni. The first will be UND Night in May featuring EDMUND A. STEPHAN, chairman of the ND Board of Trustees, as the main speaker. The second will be an Alumni Forum meeting in June at which alumni will be encouraged to ask questions of ND's representatives, JAMES W. FRICK and JOHN MACHECA. Both affairs should allow alumni to become familiar with ND's present policies and your Board of Directors encourages your attendance. Additional information will be presented in future club mailings. 
Paul Gund '63 
WALL STREET 

MICHAEL A. WARD '55, charter financial 
analyst, organized a panel of six promi­
nent research analysts from leading 

brokerage and investment firms to speak at 
the meeting of the ND Wall Street 
Association on March 24. 
With the sizeable increased interest in 

securities, this meeting will be of primary 
interest. AH ND alumni engaged in 
the brokerage and investment business 
were invited to attend. 

The meeting was scheduled to be held in the New York Stock Exchange lunch room, 7th floor, 11 Wall Street. 
Deon Sutton '31 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

FRANK N. (Nordy) HOFFMANN '33, chairman of the Board of Governors—ND Club of Washington, called a special meeting Jan. 16 at Club headquarters in downtown Washington. Future 1971 activities and the role of the Club in the community were discussed: 
The monthly luncheon program continues at the Touchdown Club of Washington under the leadership of BILL SCANLIN and TIM O'REILLY. On Feb. 23 Congressman JOSEPH McDADE '53 of Pennsylvania was guest speaker. His topic was "Contemporary Russian Life." 
PAT BANNON '41L died Feb. 7 of a 

heart attack while vacationing. Our 
sjonpathies to Mrs. Bannon and the family. 
Congratulations to LOU NEEB '61 on 

his selection as one of the top Ten 
Outstanding Young Men in the federal 
government. Lou works in the Office of 
Emergency Preparedness, executive office 
of the President. 
The Community Action Program of the 

Club" is gaining momentum. New mem­
bers coming aboard were GEORGE 
VORIS '61 and JOSEPH SCHWARTZ "61. 
HARRY DUTKO '56, chairman of the 
group, reports a coming visit to one of 
the nearby military hospitals. 
FUTURE EVENTS: Begin to plan for 

Class Reunions, June 11, 12 and 13, 1971. 
A charter bus trip is in the planning 
stases. Leave the driving to us. 
Be an active member of a growing 

metropolitan Club. Activities will be for 
all interests. Contact Harry Dutko at 
6307 64th Ave., East Riverdale, 
Md. 20840. 
Harr>- A. Dutko '56 
AVICHITA 
The ND Club of Wichita, Kan., recently helped Wichita State U. raise money for its Football '70 Memorial Fund to assist victims of the tragic airplane crash of Oct. 2, 1970, in which 31 WSU football players, coaches and others were killed. The Wichita ND Club donated to WSU a trip for two to the Jan. 1, 1971, Cotton Bowl including game tickets, round trip airline tickets to Dallas and accommodations at the Fairmont Hotel in Dallas. WSU was to use it in some way to raise funds and it decided to award the trip to an interested party who made a significant cash con­tribution to the Memorial Fund. 
Lawrence A. Tholen '60 
BIOLOGY 
Recent Ph.D.'s have gone to several post­doctoral positions—Dr. EDWIN HISS '71 to the Oak Ridge National Laboratories in Tennessee and Dr. FRANK MICHALSKl '71 to the Wistar Institute in Philadelphia. Carl Hacker, post-doctoral fellow '69-'71, will take a position on the faculty of the 
U. of Texas Medical School in Houston. 
Ralph R Thorson Department of Biology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
CHEMISTRY 
DONATE TICKETS—Joseph A. Dondlinger, the contributor selected to receive the Cotton Bowl trip for two; I^awrence A. Tholen '60, Wichita ND Club Vice President; R. D. "Bud" Prof. Milton Burton received the U.S. Calvert, Director of Annual Fund, Wichita State University; and Nestor R. Weigand Jr. Atomic Energy Commission Citation for '60, Wichita ND Club President. meritorious contributions to the nation's 
atomic energy program at a special ceremony at the University, March 12. Green and white buttons proclaiming STRONGER THAN GOOD are in evidence around Nieuwland these days following the top rating given the graduate chemistry department by the American Council on Education. Prof. Robert W. Zwanzig of the Institute for Fluid Dynamics and Applied Mathematics, U. of Maryland, is Reilly Lecturer for the week of April 19. 
PETE BUTLER '62, after six years and many publications with E'iso Research and Engineering, the addition of an 
M.B.A. from Rutgers to his Ph.D., and a stint with F. 1. duPont Glore Forgan as a securities analyst, is a vice president of Mitchell, Hutchins & Co., Inc., an Institutional Research firm on Wall Street. Pete and Carolyn, daughter of former Law Dean Clarence Manion, are the parents of five children. GERRY MEISELS '56 is now a full professor at the U. of Houston; he has a strong research program under way in radiation chemistry. JAI PAL MITTAL '68 is with the Radiation Chemistry section of the chemistry division, Bhabha Atomic Research Center, Bombay 85, India. Miss ROSE MONTAG M.S. '61, formerly Sr. Thomasette, is dean of women at Oberiin College, Oberiin, Ohio. Sr. LORETTA SCHAFER '63 was recently elected Co-Provincial for Community Affairs of the St. Joseph Province of the Sisters of Providence, 125 Touhy Ave., Park Ridge, lU. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
Department of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ENGLISH 
Sr. MARY KATHRYN GRANT RSM, 
M.A.
 '69, is acting chairman of the English Department at Mercy College of Detroit, where she also supervises student-teachers in the secondary education program. Prof. LOUIS HASLEY, M.A. '31, is continuing his studies of American humorists with essays on Ring Lardner in the Autumn 1970 Arizona Quarterly, Robert Benchley in the October Connecticut Review and Bill Nye in Tlie Mark Twain Journal, Winter issue. At the beginning of the spring semester Mrs. MABEN HERRING, M.A.T. '65 and former teaching assistant and doctoral student, joined the faculty to teach a course in Afro-American literature. In the fall she will begin a full-time appointment as an assistant professor. RICHARD REYNOLDS, Ph.D. '69, teaches at the 

U.
 of Connecticut, Storrs. And Rev. ZACHARIAS THUNDYL, Ph.D. '69, is an assistant professor of English at Western Michigan U., Marquette. 


Prof. Wayne Booth of the U. of Chicago, will deliver this year's Ward-Phillips Lectures in the Library Auditorium, April 26-29. A program for an M.A. with a concentration in teaching, in addition to the traditional degree, is a future prospect, with seminars for teachers in composition, linguistics, and poetry to be offered during the 1971 summer session. Alumni may be interested to know that our doctoral program was rated "adequate plus" in the most recent survey by the American Council on Education. The diminished number of students admitted to graduate study for next fall is in keeping with the general professional situation as well as the paucity of fellowship funds. 
New students will encounter a revised 
curriculum with new course, language, 
and examinaU'on regulations. The student 
will distribute his courses evenly between 
courses which survey a movement, a genre, 
or an age, and those which undertake 
studies of a delimited subject such as a 
single author, a relationship, a "circle," or a 
theme. The student must demonstrate a 
command of one language in which 
there is a significant body of literature. 
And he must pass written and oral 
examinations in a field of concentration, 
comprising a major sequence and a minor 
sequence, regarded as integral parts of a 
single field of knowledge. 
The major sequence will be either the literature of a single historical period or a major phase of a single historical genre. TTie minor is in two elements, each usually a single genre in a single historical period, though one element might be language or criticism or in another discipline. For example, a Modem American major minors in 19th-century American fiction and poetry for a general American concentration; or a FicU'on major selects minors in 19th-century British poetry and prose for a dual concentration in Fiction and 19th Century. A student's program will be planned with the help of a three-man advisory committee which will also conduct the written examination, serve on the oral board and as director and two readers of the dissertation. 
Robert M. Slabey 
English Department 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
HISTORY 
In the last issue of the ALUMNUS I neglected to mention that I received Christmas cards from RICHARD PANTEL of Loras College, and Prof, and Mrs. JULIUS PRATT, now in retirement at Williamsville, N.Y. Prof. Pratt would be pleased to hear from any of his friends or former students. JOHN KLIER, now beginning research in Russian history for his doctoral dissertation at the U. of Illinois, has joined the ranks of the lawfully wedded. When he visited ND last fall John reported that DENNIS KERN is currently teaching high school in New Britain, Conn. HOWARD DOOLEY of Western Michigan is the author of an interesting article about the recently deceased Gen. DeGaulle and Col. Nasser in the January, 1971, issue of The History Teacher. RALPH WEBER was down from Marquette during January and February to do research in the ND library for a book he hopes to publish this year. CHARLES POINSATTE, chairman of the History Department at St. Mary's, has a sabbatical in the current semester. He is working on a book dealing with Catholic principles and attitudes as related to the birth control movement and world population problems. ANTHONY BLACK, also of St. Mary's, shepherded a student delegation through the British Isles during the mid-winter break. WALTER GRAY of Loyola in Chicago is still at that university's branch in Rome basking in Old World culture while we South Benders gloomily contemplate March snowdrifts. CHARLES BAIER remains at Lowery AFB near Denver where he has been for many years. 
Profs. ANTON-HERMANN CHROUST and JONATHAN ZISKIND have received Faculty Research grants for next year. Prof. Ziskind also won another grant from the O'Brien Fund. Despite the current scarcity of positions available in history two of our students have secured positions for next year, PHILIP RILEY at Madison College in Harrisonburg, Va., and WILLIAM FOWLER at Northeastern in Boston. In Fowler's case the appointment is subject to approval by the U.S. Selective Service system. 
SPORTS NOTES—After a brilliant start the History Department basketball team fell into a brief slump and now stands 1-7 in league play. Congenital detractors have professed to discover significance in the consideration that our only victory was scored over a team with a girl in the starting lineup—sterile scoffing typical of a degenerate age. Veteran basketball men, by contrast, agree that the disappointing season has been due to incompetent officiating. 
In recent days rumors have circulated that the History Department has exhausted its travel funds to purchase a one-way airline ticket to Bolivia for coach RICHARD WALTERS. This morning a departmental spokesman branded such reports as "completely without foundation," "a vile fabrication of the irresponsible press," and "the sort of thing one would expect from Radio Hanoi." The spokesman, who declined to be identified, added, "The entire History organization has the fullest confidence in coach Walters. We think he has done a great job. No changes in either the coaching staff or the front office are contemplated at this time." Coach Walters was unavailable for comment. Another prevalent rumor is that your correspondent will be optioned to the Greenland Muskrats of the Arctic Basketball Conference at the end of the present seiison, but this could not be confirmed as we went to press. 
Bernard Norling 
Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW 

Faculty members have donated 51,000 to be used to assist needy law students. Prof. BUD MURDOCK coordinated the fund raising effort. Prof. Murdock also has arranged a seminar on financing small business with special emphasis on developing minority owned and operated businesses in ghetto areas. The speakers represent corporate, banking, commercial finance and insurance enterprises. 
Associate Dean TOM SHAFFER '61L has published a book. Death, Property and Lawyers is printed by Dunellen Co. of New York City in its University Press of Cambridge series and deals with the psychological aspects of counselling clients in estate planning situations. Professor Tom also authored an interesting piece in the February 1971 issue of the ABA Journal called "Men and Things: The Liberal Bias Against Property" in which he argues that ownership of property is an extension of the owner's personality and is more important than modem liberals admit. Prof. DAVE LINK '61L has been reappointed by the ABA president as chairman of the ABA Commit­tee on Law and Technology. Prof. JACK (Chief) BRODERICK is co-editor of 
New Trends in Industrial Relations which 
are the proceedings of a conference 
sponsored by labor-management, the 

Economics Department of ND, SMC and 
the Law School. 

Prof. ANTON CHROUST was awarded 
a $500 grant to help underwrite his 
investigations into the relationship of 

Platonic and Zoroastrian thought. Prof. 
Chroust also has authored "Estate Planning 
in Hellenic Antiquity" in Volume 45 

of the Notre Dame Lawyer, "A Note on the 
Pseudo-Platonic Minos" in Vol. 15 

American Journal of Jurisprudence, and 
"A Note on the Persecutions of the 

Christians in the Early Roman Empire" in 
Classica et Mediaevalia Vol. 28. He will 
also publish two volumes in England 

dealing with Aristotle's involvement in the 
imperial expansion under King Philip 
of Macedonia and the thesis that Aristotle 
may not have written some of the works 
usually credited to him. 

Prof. CHARLIE RICE testified against 
a bill to expand Indiana's grounds for 
legal abortion before the Indiana Senate 
Committee on Public Health, March 2, 
1971, and lectured fn Madison, Wis., on 
March 4 on the same question. 

The faculty has voted to make the curriculum completely elective beyond the first year with a system of faculty counsel­ling for all students regarding recom­mended core courses and other electivcs. 
THEODORE LEO '7IL won the Moot 
Court Competition on Feb. 20 before 

Louis Burke, Justice California Supreme 
Court, Wade McCree, Judge, 6th Circuit 
U.S.
 Court of Appeals and Frank Murray, 

U.S.
 District Court, Boston. JOSEPH BEISHNSTEIN '71L and MIKE BREN­NAN '71L placed second and third, respectively. 


DAVID ALBERT '73L donated a parcel of land to the South Bend Community Action Organization to assist them in their program. DENNIS POWELL '63L received favorable mention for his work as an attorney for the California Rural Legal Assistance Agency in a Los Angeles Times (Feb. 21, 1971) article by David Broder, a Washington Post columnist, dealing with OEO legal assistance problems. 
On Jan. 29, Acting Dean Murphy, along with Dean Lawless, spoke to members of the alumni attending the New York State Bar Association meeting in New York City. Dean Murphy and Father Lewers are to be in London during the week of March 14 in order to make arrangements for the year abroad program for 1971-72. 
Leslie G. Foschio Notre Dame Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
MATHEMATICS 

I thought that our former graduate students, especially those from our teacher training programs, would be interested in hearing about a new experimental program to be offered here beginning this summer. The new effort will be headed by Professors Abraham Goetz and Mario Borelli, who are the director and associate director of the department's teacher training program. Professor Borelli has prepared a brief description of 'he program which follows. 
"The Department of Mathematics at ND 
will begin an experimental, comprehensive 

program of teacher training for secondary 
school teachers this summer. The 
program will be funded by a $271,125 

grant from the National Science Foundation. 
Within existing NSF rules the grant is 

renewable for three additional years. The 
NSF awarded such grants lo six insti­
tutions in the country with a history 
of successful science-teacher training 

institutes. The Department of Mathematics 
has conducted NSF-sponsored institutes 

since 1957. The comprehensive program 
will include all the previous teacher-
training activities of the Department, 

and add several new facets. 'These will be 
primarily aimed at the improvement of 
Secondary School mathematics teaching 
in a 'target area,' which consists of 
St. Joseph County for the first year of 

operations, but will expand in future years 
to include other areas, from Indiana and 
Michigan, within a commuting distance 
of ND. 

"The newest facet of the program is an 
option allowing area teachers to study 
part time during the academic year. 

Course flexibility and a variety of services 
will be available to area applicants. 
The program will offer some math 
courses at 4:30 p.m., and, for those 
teachers who do not feel ready to enter 
into a master's program, preparatory 
courses, also at 4:30 p.m., which carry 
graduate credit and include material 
necessary for advanced study. 

"In addition, teachers from cooperating school districts may take an additional course during the day. Their districts will release them from an appropriate portion of their teaching duties, and the University will provide the districts with 'interns' to replace the absent teachers, with no additional cost to the districts. The interns are undergraduate and graduate students, who also participate in the program with the aim of becoming secondary school teachers .of mathematics. 
"Area teachers wishing to obtain a M.S. degree through the program will also be able to take advantage of the courses offered by the program during summers. All area teachers accepted into the program will receive a grant to cover the tuition of all mathematics courses taken within the program. 
"As a service to school districts of the area, members of the Mathematics Department faculty will be available at no fee to consult with junior and senior high schools on any subject related to math or math education. 
"Teachers who do not live within a commuting distance from ND will also be able to participate in the program, and pursue the M.S. degree during summer institutes or in a full-time, one-year program. The latter two programs, which resemble the Summer Institutes and Academic Year Institutes offered by the department in previous years, include a stipend for the participants. However, area teachers applying for part-time participa­tion will not compete for the limited stipend funds, and thus receive an added advantage in gaining acceptance to the program. Area teachers will also receive preferential consideration when applying for summer stipends." 
George Kolettis 370 Computing Center Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

PHYSICS 
I have been informed by Dr. John W. 
Mihelich that my last column (see February 
1971 issue) may have misled my numerous 

readers into believing with absolute 
certainty that HANK PRASK '63 is still 
enjoying the happy, carefree, irresponsible 
life of a bachelor. Since, according to 
Dr. Mihelich, Hank is now married, I hasten 
to correct any false impressions that 
may be lingering from my previous column. 
(If that doesn't produce a letter from 
Hank with up-to-date information, 
I don't know what will!) And now here 
are a few more .names, addresses, 
and activities of our Physics Ph.D. alumni. 
JAMES J. REIDY '63 (nuclear 

spectroscopy), wife Dorothy, and three 
children, James, Michelle and Michael, 
live at 3100 Rumsey, Ann Arbor, Mich. 
48105. Jim was a contemporary of Hank 
Prask at ND. However, unlike Hank, 
Jim was married while still at ND. After 
obtaining his Ph.D., Jim went to the 
U. of Michigan as a postdoctoral research associate in the Department of Physics. Since 1965, he has held the position of assistant professor of physics at Michigan. Jim's research interests appear to be tending more and more toward biomedical physics, as evidenced by a recent colloquium talk he gave us on the "Program of the Bio-Medical Research Group at Los Alamos." 
CHARLES A. KELSEY '62 (nuclear physics), wife Judith, and three children, James, Robert and Kathleen, live at 6109 Driftwood Ave., Madison, Wis. 53705. Chuck went to Wisconsin as a postdoc­toral research assistant in physics in 1962, was appointed an instructor in physics shortly thereafter, and by 1965 had attained the rank of assistant professor of physics. In 1965 he decided to broaden his research interests, and joined the medical physics group at Wisconsin as an assistant professor of radiology. Judging from a colloquium talk Chuck gave us some time back, he is thoroughly enjoying his work in medical physics. He is also a very convincing and enthusiastic exponent of the many opportunities for good research in the area of medical physics. 
TIMOTHY R. DONOGHUE '63 (nuclear physics), wife Nancy and two children, Maura and Timothy, live at 1933 Chatfield Rd., Columbus, Ohio 43221. From 1963 to 1964 Tim served as a postdoctoral research associate in physics at Ohio State U. In 1964 he was appointed assistant professor of physics at Ohio State, and in 1968 he was promoted to associate professor of physics. 
WILLIAM E. DORENBUSCH '63 (nuclear physics), joined the faculty of the Department of Physics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an instructor in 1963. In 1965 Bill was promoted to assistant professor of physics at M.I.T., and in 1969 he and wife, Sally, moved to Wayne State U., Detroit, Mich. 48202, where Bill is now a member of the faculty of the Department of Physics. 
I think I'll surprise the editor this time, and not exceed my word quota for a change. He's been making threatening noises lately! How about checking in and providing me with much-needed up-to-date information? 
Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
•ecoril 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Susan A. Hoevel (SMC"68) to ALAN F. DIEFENBACH '65. Miss Sandra Price to FRANK CIHLAR '67L. Miss Cathy Lee Gaddis to ARTHUR 
C. TUTELA, JR. '68. Miss Patricia Ann Wallis to GEORGE 
T. FURST '70, July. 
Miss Karen Marie Linehan to JOHN E. MROZ '70. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Patricia L. Klein and JAMES T. KELLY '64, Dec. 12. Miss Joan M. Yandow SMC '70 and CARL G. MANERI '70, Jan. 9. 
ADOPTION 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS L. BORN­HURST '66, a son, in January. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH WARN Mc-MANUS '53, a son, John Luger, Aug. 3. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH M. CAMPBELL '54, a son, Dennis, Oct. 18. Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN A. STECK­BECK '54, a daughter, Samantha, Sept. 28. Mr. and Mrs. JUAN RAFAEL PACHECO JR. '56, a son, Juan Rafael III. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES L. BYRNE '57, a son, Patrick Donovan, Jan. 6. Lt. Col. and Mrs. BURTON A. LESH '57, a son, Michael Burton, Jan. 3. Dr. and Mrs. THOMAS W. HAGAN '60, a son, Sean Thomas, Dec. 7. Mr. and Mrs. JOEL E. HAGGARD '61, a son, Kevin Edward, Feb. 6. Mr. and Mrs. L. ROBERT MclNTYRE JR. '63, a daughter. Holly Marie, Dec. 25. Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH H. STINSON *64, a son, in January. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES CARROLL '65, a daughter, Tara, in October. Mr. and Mrs. LEE MCCARTHY '65, a son, Patrick Thomas, in January. Dr. and Mrs. DANIEL C. MORELLO '65, a daughter, Elise Anne, Nov. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. SIDNEY E. BAKER III '66, a daughter, Susan, July 20. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. BUTTLER '67, a daughter, Loralee Ann. Mr. and Mrs. FRANK GARTLAND '67, a daughter. Heather Elizabeth, Feb. 2. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS MURPHY '67, a daughter, Molly Kathleen, in October. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT NOFI '67, a daughter, Lisa Ann, in December. Mr. and Mrs. LARRY MILLER '68L, a son. Christian James, Feb. 14. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN KNITTEL •69MBA, a daughter. Colleen Anne, Jan. 5. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH KANE '70L, a daughter, Julie Elizabeth, Jan. 20. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD SCHUERING '70L, a son, Christopher Donald, Jan. 24. 
SYMPATHY 
JOHN J. REIDY '27 on the death of his mother in January. ROBERT BANNON '28 on the death of his brother, PATRICK J. BANNON '39. 
HUGH A. GALLAGHER '30 on the death of his son, HUGH A. GALLAGHER JR. '69, Dec. 13. 
FRANK D. HAMILTON '30 on the death of his brother, WILLIAM P. (Red) HAMILTON '32, Feb. 7. 
JOHN J. DINNEEN '31 and MICHAEL 
E. DINNEEN '69 on the death of wife and mother, Mrs. John J. Dinneen, Jan. 28. 
ROBERT K. KELLEY '34 on the death of his mother in January. Lt. Col. GERARD G. SCHAEFER '38 on the death of his mother, Nov. 23. WILLIAM L. JOYCE '40 on the death of his wife, Mary. GUS N. VARLAS '47 on the death of his son, Thomas P., Jan. 18. ROBERT MacLEMALE '48, on the death of his wife, Virginia, Jan. 10. BRO. RAPHAEL WILSON CSC '48 on the death of his mother, Mrs. Sarah 
E. Wilson, Jan. 12. 
JAMES C. HENNESSY '51 on the death of his father, John C. Hennessy, Jan. 20. 
BERNARD J. LAVINS '51 on the death of his mother. THOMAS H. MULLEN '51 on the death of his wife, Julie, Feb. 13. 
JOHN H. SCHEIBELHUT '52 and RICHARD C. '55 on the death of their father, LEO C. SCHEIBELHUT '07, Jan. 30. 
HARRY F. KELLY JR. '53 on the death of his father HARRY F. KELLY '17, Feb. 8. 
MARVIN J. BREZETTE '54 and WILLIAM F. '64 on the death of their father, M. J. Brezette, Dec. 16. 
JOHN M. RODGERS '56 and JAMES J. '58 on the death of their father, THOMAS J. RODGERS '28, Feb. 15. 
DONALD E. MACHENBERG '57 on the death of his father, Cecil Machen­berg, Jan. 19. 
LYNN R. HANKES '58 on the death of his father, William J. Hankes, Nov. 13. 
JOHN C. DeFELLlPPIE '59 on the death of his father, C. DeFellippie, Jan. 4. 
JOHN EDWARD McLAUGHLIN JR. '61 on the death of his father, J; E. McLaughlin, April 4, 1970. 
ALBERT E. HEEKIN III '62 on the death of his father, Albert E. Heekin, Jr., Feb. 1. 
G. THOMAS WENNING '62 on the death of his father, George B. Wenning, Oct 12. 
TIMOTHY F. FLYNN '63 on the death 
of his father, Carl Flynn, in May, 1970. 
JAMES P. McGOWAN '65 on the death 
of his father, Martin A. McGowan. 
JOHN M. O'HEARN '66 on the 
death of his wife in January. 
MICHAEL A. GAUGER '67 on the 
death of his father. Nelson R. Ganger, 
Nov. 20. 

NICHOLAS J. CHRIST JR. '69, on the death of his father, Nicholas J. Christ Sr., in February. 
DEATHS 
CHARLES J. BAAB 'OO, in 1970. He is survived by his family at 90 Samboume Ave., WUkes-Barre, Pa. 18702. 
LOUIS C. SAAROSY (at ND in 1900) Jan. 5. He is survived by his widow at 1801 
W. Second St., Sioux City, Iowa; three daughters, two grandchildren and a great-granddaughter. 
Sr. M. JEROME SCHEPERS OSB '05, in November, Immaculate Conception Convent, Ferdinand, Ind. 47532. 
LEO C. SCHEIBELHUT '07, Jan. 30. He is survived by his widow, Dorothy, 1608 
N. Adams St, South Bend, Ind.; two sons, JOHN H. '52 and RICHARD C. '55; two daughters and 12 grandchildren. 
REV. PATRICK T. QUINLAN '15, Jan. 26. He is survived by a brother, Dennis J. Quinlan, 1017 Brentford Dr., Columbus, Ohio. 
HARRY F. KELLY "17, Feb. 8. He is survived by his widow, Ann; four sons including HARRY F. Jr. '53, 4263 Colony Club, Port Clinton, Ohio 43452; two daughters, four brothers and three sisters. 
HUGH S. CARROLL '18, MS'20, Jan. 15. He is survived by his family at 338 Mountain View Ave., San Rafael, Calif. 94901. 
Rev. ARTHUR J. HOPE CSC '20, Feb. 9 at ND. He is survived by four nieces and tune nephews. 
EDWARD J. GOTTRY '22, Jan. 28. He is survived by a sister, Mrs. George A. Gardiner, 52 Phelps Ave., Rochester, N.Y. 
Dr. KELVIN A. KASPER -22, Jan. 10. He is survived by his widow at 1111 Haeys Ford Rd., Narberth, Pa. 19072 
WALTER J. MATTHES '22, Sept 19. He is survived by his widow, Olga, 15845 Ashton Ave., Detroit Mich. 48223; a son and a daughter. 
JOHN J. GRANFIELD "23, Jan. II. He is survived by his widow, Pauline, Plymouth Rd., Longmeadow, Springfield, Mass.; two' sons, a brother and a sister. 
Dr. EUGENE A. HAUBER '25, Feb. 12. He is survived by his widow, 198 Wash­ington Rd., SayrevUle, NJ. 08878. 
PHILIP M. DONOVAN '26, April 22, 1970. He is survived by his son, Lt 
Names Needed for Memorial 
Joseph Hannan, secretary of the Class of 
'39, who is donating a new plaque listing 
names of Notre Dame's war dead, has 
called for a final report of any names 
that may be added to the list published 
in the October-November issue of the 
ALUMNUS. The names of deceased ND 
servicemen, of any war, should be sent to: 
The Notre Dame Foundation 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 Michael J. Donovan, Naval Air Station 
Miramar, San Diego, J^alif. 92145. 

ST. FREDERICA DUDINE OSB '26, 
Feb. 25. She is survived by a brother, Rt. 
Rev. John N. Dudine, New Albany, Ind. 
EDMUND J. FINN '28, Jan. 19. He is 
survived by a son and a daughter. 

MARION J. HEFFERNAN '28, Jan. 30. 
He is survived by his widow, Mary Rose, 
3306 Nanz Ave., Louisville, Ky. 40207 
and two sisters. 

THOMAS J. RODGERS '28, Feb. 15. He 
is survived by his widow at 234 Sterling 
Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14216 and two sons, 
JOHN M. '56 and JAMES J. '58. 

DONALD S. BALDWIN '29, Feb. 17. 
He is surv'ived by a sister, Eleanor Baldwin, 
16 W. Conron, Danville, HI. 61833. 

Rev. WILLIAM E. BURCHILL '30, 
Nov. 7, St. Vincent's Rectory, 1001 Church 
St., Plymouth, Pa. 18651. 

ARTHUR S. BURKERT '30, Feb. 3. He 
is survived by his widow, Josephine, 

4436 N. 17th St., Arlington, Va. 22207; 
two sons, two daughters, one grandchild, 
three brothers and a sister. 

EDWARD F. LAVIN '30, Sept. 2. He 
is survived by a sister, AUce Lavin, 802 
S. Valley Ave., Olyphant, Pa. 18447. 

Rev. RICHARD D. PATRICK CSC '31, March 7, Holy Cross House, ND. He 
•is survived by a brother, George, and a sis­ter, Mrs. William Zimmer, both of Plymouth, Ind. 
Dr. WILLIAM P. (Red) HAMILTON 
'32, Feb. 7. He is sur\'ived by his widow, 
Margaret, 109 W. Fountain St., Dodge-

ville. Wis. 53533; five daughters, two sons, 
nine grandchildren and a brother, 
FRANK D. HAMILTON '30. 

GENE HOWREY '32 Feb. 10. He is survived by his widow, Ellen Pauline, RL 6, Box 47, Crawfordsville, Ind. 47933; two sons, a daughter, two brothers and four grandchildren. 
REYMAN E. (Bud) BONAR '35, Nov. 
20. He is survived by his widow, Lucille, 4353 Jefferson St., Bellaire, Ohio; two sisters and a brother. 
WILLIAM F. MURTHA '35, Feb. 10. 
He is survived by his widow, Mildred, 35 
Roydan Drive N., North Merrick, Long 
Island, N.Y., four children and his mother. 
JOHN R. BRAYMER '35, April, 1970. 
He is survived by his widow, 2115 Hampden 
Rd., BarUesviUe, Okla. 74003. 

ELMER E. HOOLEY '36, Jan. 21. He is survived by his widow, 414 S. Main SL, RocheUe, III. 61068. 
EDWARD FREDERICK THEIS SR. '36, Jan. 22. He is survived by his family at 1422 Martins hane, Evansville, Ind. 
PATRICK J. BANNON '39, M.A. '40, LL.B.'41, Feb. 7. He is survived by his widow, Angela, 3900 Cathedral Ave., N.W., Apt 611-A, Washington, D.C. 20016; a son and daughter and a brother, ROBERT '28. 
Sr. M. IRMINE SEBASTIAN OSB '40, in November, Immaculate Conception Convent, Ferdinand, Ind. 47532. 
Rev. JOHN VANDEN BOSCH OSC '40, Crosier Seminary, Onamia, Minn. 46805. 
Bro. CAIUS WEBBER CSC '41, March 26, 1970, Gilmour Academy, Gates Mills, Ohio 44040. 
JOSEPH W. FITZPATRICK '43, Jan. 15. He is survived by his widow, Margery, 32 Jefferson St., EUicottville, N.Y. 14731; two daughters, his mother, four brothers and a sister. 
Bro. GERONTIUS McCARTHY CSC '44, June 9, Gilmour Academy, Gates Milk, Ohio 44040. 
DONALD T. EDWARDS '46, LL.D.'49, 
Jan. 25. He is survived by his widow, 
Marilyn, and eight children, 1255 Wendy 
Dr., Northbrook, III. 60062. 
Sr. CATHERINE THERESE WELL­
MAN M.S.'47, at Albuquerque, N.M. 

DANIEL W. HESTER '48, Jan. 22. He 
is survived by his family at 8852 Greenwood 
Ave., San Gabriel, Calif. 91776. 

WILLIAM B. GRAHAM JR. '52, Nov. 
10. He is survived by his family at Conception Junction, Mo. 64434. JOHN M. SENG '53, SepL 10 at 5555 N. Sheridan Rd., Chicago, III. 60640. 
Sr. M. ELAINE SAMBS M.A.'55, St. Mary School, 15 S. Union St. Delaware, Ohio 43015. 

Sr. M. CONRAD PERRAULT M.A.'56 at Albuquerque, N.M. HUGH A. GALLAGHER JR. '69, Dec. 
13. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. HUGH A. GALLAGHER '30, 1740 Borland Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15243. 
WILLIAM D. ROLLISON LL.D.'69 (Law faculty 1930-63) Jan. 21. He is sur­vived by his widow, Edwina, Birmingham, Ala., and a sister. 
CARRY ON! 

I just finished reading the Jan.-Feb. 
1971 ALUMNUS. It was an excellent assemblage of ideas and thoughts. I was particularly interested in the ar­ticle by Bill Mitchell on the relation­ship between ND and St. Mary's. I was involved in a student survey of dating practices between the two schools in 1958, through the Sociology Department and Professor Bob Vasoli. This experience really brought out the barriers (real or imagined) between the two campuses. The present-day situation is a very real improvement. I am excited to see the two schools beginning to work together. It would seem that the third alternative sug­gested by Park and Meyhew is the most formidable; namely, to join the two schools in one university for men . and women, while preserving each school's "identity." 
In general, I am pleased with the changes within the University and the attempts at keeping the school relative to today. From what I have read and 

my visits to the campus, life there hasn't changed that drastically. In my work at the probation office (Juvenile Division) and coaching track at a local high school, I am aware of the need to present fundamentals in a relevant way. If you are trying to change attitudes, get your point across, teach, etc., you must get the other person or persons to respect and trust what you say. There is nothing auto­matic in this trust and respect. It must be earned by human contact or com­munication which is meaningful. My impressions is that ND is attempting to do this, and I applaud them for it. The involvement of students with the South Bend community is to be espe­cially commended. Carry on! 
Steve Dornbach '59, M.A. '61 
1900 Princeton Ave. 
St. Paul, Minn. 55105 

SLIPPING SYSTEM 
Addition of women to Notre Dame destroys its virility. It is the mark of a slipping system unable to stand on the old separation of the sexes. 
Mrs. John F. Hart 
607 No. Polk St. 
Little Rock, Ark. 

NO COEDS 
ND has always been a school for men and everyone who has entered there has done so with this knowledge and presumably because of it as it was his desire to attend such a university. If anyone wants to be in a coeduca­tional college, there are many choices. To force a student to accept what he did not choose initially does not seem like fair play. 
How about the alumni, some of us who have loved this school for 50 years or more? Did they want a coed school for their Alma Mater? Did their Notre Dame produce warped men or good men? Could all of those wonderful priests and teachers have been wrong? 
Should Notre Dame become co­educational, I would feel that I had lost my second lifelong love. 
William J. Andres '18 
410 Dorchester Rd. 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610 

GO COED 
In response to your editorial in the February 1971 ALUMNUS, I wish to cast my vote in favor of ND going "co-ed." 
The Park-Mayhew Report didn't really change the situation, but only postpones the inevitable. It was a 
waste of money to pay for such a 
service. 
Bill Mitchell's article makes more 
sense to me, with St. Mary's becoming 
the College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences, for the University. 
James E. Coyne '53 31 Fisher St. Westboro, Mass. 01581 

JIMMY 
I write this after seeing the September issue of ALUMNUS. I have just seen the copy sent by sea-mail and what struck me was the fine tribute paid to Jimmy McGarraghy. So many of us knew him at the cafeteria and I was very much in touch with him in the years 1958-61. He was a very lovable man who went out of his way to meet people and make them happy. He was part of the institution and am really sorry he is no more. Here is one who remembers him well as a fine gentle soul. 
Rev. Francis Gnanapraagasam SJ Andhra Loyola College Vijayawada-8, A.P., India 
WHO'S NUMBER ONE? 
Speaking for perhaps all alumni, it can be said that we were happy to see both the football and basketball teams do so well. Congratulations are in order for both the coaches and players. 
Speaking for myself only, I can say there was one disappointing aspect involved after the wins; both coaches publicly declaring there was only one national champion — Notre Dame. They may have been correct, but the decision is generally made, and should continue to be made, by people some­what more removed from the action; supposedly disinterested third parties, who rarely need the advice of the concerned athletic departments. 
Perhaps without justification, many people judge our University solely by the happenings of the athletic depart­ments. Therefore, with all the changes taking place on campus, it is sin­cerely to be hoped that the meaning of the word, "humility," has not been forgotten. 
Joe Donovan '56 
Illiopolis, III. 62539 

NO QUESTIONS ASKED 
I was disappointed that not one of the students who heard Saul Alinsky in the packed Engineering auditorium the other night objected to his statement that "since the era of the new physics highlighted by Einstein's theory of relativity no one doubts that every­thing is relative. There are no fixed rules or principles anymore. The only thing we are sure of is that every­thing is 'change'." 
I tried to get his attention towards the end to ask him if he thought the astronauts would agree with his state­ment. I'm sure that if the astronauts believed they could not rely on fixed laws of physics, chemistry and aero­dynamics they certainly would never go near a launching pad! 
What disappointed me even more was that not one of the many faculty members in the crowd questioned this inconsistency and the others he made when he digressed into the fields of philosophy, metaphysics, and morals. Nor did they, or anyone else, object to his ridiculing those who do not be­lieve in liberalized abortion. 
Doesn't Notre Dame owe it to her students and to their parents who have entrusted them to her to at least question speakers who toss off glib statements embodying half-truths which are inconsistent, unprovable and contrary to the basic principles of our religion and to common sense? 
Burnett C. Bauer '38, M.A.'44 1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46625 
GOO, COUNTRY AND ND 
With reference to the letter from John 
F. Sullivan '33 appearing in "Alumni Ask," Jan.-Feb. 1971 I would re­spectfully and sincerely add, "amen." I, too, am proud of the "old" Notre Dame, and feel a deep sense of loss at its passing. 
Realizing that the "now" genera­tion cannot lose what it never had (that is the "old" Notre Dame) I feel a deep regret that they have missed the sense of fulfillment, achievement, peace, sense of accom­plishment, sense of responsibility that the "old" Notre Dame imparted to those of us fortunate enough to have attended in prior days. 
Whatever became of the "For God, Country, and Notre Dame" that was a proud part of Notre Dame heritage? If that is gone, then let ND close its doors with honor and dignity and pre­serve a proud prestigious memory rather than continue in the mediocrity to which it is (apparently) headed— and doomed. 
Donald L. Smith '38 
1915 Tesia Dr. 
Colorado Springs, Colo. 80909 
SENIOR FEUOW 
When reading the news of the selec­
tion of William F. Kunstler as winner 
of the Senior Fellow Award for 1971, 
I was shocked and amazed. If after 
completing their education at ND, 
the majority of the Senior Class feel 
this individual represents the integ­
rity, the decency, and the will to work 
for the best values of our society, 
then I am convinced that ND has 
failed the students, society and the 
thousands of alumni who built the 
honor of the school in the past. 
All alumni realize a great deal of freedom is necessary today but there must be some point where the admin­istration can take action to protect what was built up over many years by thousands of men, who wherever they may be, must be sick at heart today. 
H. A. Miller Pomona, Calif. 
SOMETHING GAINED 
This is in rebuttal to Thomas F. Mc-Kenna '68 and others like him (Alum­ni Ask, Jan.-Feb. NDA). He ad­dresses the memory of one late Bruce 
W. Haskett. Mr. McKenna's remarks indicate a degree of casualness in his relationship to the deceased. If the relationship was stronger than that, God forbid that I have classmates and Christian brothers like Mr. Mc-Kenna. "Sincere condolences" . . . those are Mr. McKenna's words, and the way he uses them, they sound terribly empty to me. I didn't know Bruce at all, but I hope and pray that he lived and died doing what he believed in and that he has earned his eternal reward of heavenly happiness. And I extend sincere condolences and prayers to those Bruce left behind. 
Perhaps Mr. McKenna feels simi­larly, but like so many of today's "enlightened" people, he sure has a funny way of showing it. To him Bruce's death was wasted, for nothing. Tell us, Mr. McKenna, were the sen­timents of your letter those of Bruce Heskett? You didn't say he served unwillingly, that he didn't see it as his duty to follow the commitments that his God, my God, and, hopefully, your God, placed before him. Could it be that Bruce Heskett didn't agree with your viewpoint? 
Just maybe the death of Bruce Heskett and many others like him is just the thing that "has been gained . . . has been accomplished . . . has been delivered" . . . for you and for me. R.I.P. 
David M. Amidon '59 12835 Holiday Lane Bowie, Maryland 20715 
I Mr. Franeis P. Clark 
Head, Microfilming & Photov Lab." ' Memorial Library ' /. .Notre Dame, Ind. • 46556 
THE BIG COMEBACK! 
June 11,12, 13 Classes: 50-Year Club, '21, '26, '31, '36, '41, '46, '51, '56, '61, '66 





