The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
S';----^'>:;."^"si':>iL2i 
.^(^iiitt a^&iS^ 
ifi'S'VirViii'iti'iin'iHiViMriiiiii'MJiit'i ilMMiiiiiM^^ 
/f^ 
7^*1 ... 
\ftkota f fB*^ the ,1^-brary 
<:>  ^.H- Notre Dame Alumnus  ^  J .. ^*I  
I  

194 April, 193i
THE NOTRE DAME ALXTMNUS 


CCMMENT 
One result of our excursions into the field of preparatory education and our investigations of compara­tive data from other colleges, is that alumni can rest assured that Notre Dame offers an A-1 education in all of its branches at a cost below aver­age. 
Recent figures released by the United States Office of Education re­veal that the typical cost for the year, including all types of higher educational institutions, from a group of 359 such colleges, is $630 for the year. Costs at privately controlled institutions, the report adds, mn higher, — "the typica l economical freshman, however, spends from ?1,000 up in the following institu­tions: Colgate, Dartmouth, George­town, Harvard, Lehigh, Princeton, Wesleyan, Williams, and Yale." 
Even compared to costs at State schools, witness this excerpt: ".. . but in thirtj-nine other State insti­tutions a student must provide from $500 to ?800, especially if he selects one in California, Connecticut, Dela­ware, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Pennsylvania, Vermont, Virginia, Alaska, or Hawaii." 
Therefore Notre Dame's costs to the student — $686 for the year in Brownson and Carroll halls; $758 for the year in the double rooms in Freshman ( nee Sophomore) Hall, and $803 for the year in the single 
(mostly) rooms in magnificent Dil­lon Hall — are low on any basis of comparison, including as they do: Tuition - Board - Room - Medical service - Libraries - Lectures and concerts (weekly movie) - Laundry 
- Admission to all home games - Use of Athletic Facilities (including 18­hole golf course) - The Scholastic and the Dome. 
Where the Notre Dame student gains is the provision made for spare time on the Notre Dame campus, with a resulting reduction of incidental costs to a point hardly exceeding, in any necessary measure, the iixed fees. 
The academic growth of Notre Dame has been interpreted in these pages too many times to require 

repetition. Notre Dame graduates lips. Mrs. Eva Phillips Donahue, a are succeeding in every phase of life sister, and Frank Phillips, brother, for which Notre Dame prepares men. are the donors. Graduates of the University under­graduate schools have found it pos­To the hundreds of alumni who sible to transfer to all leading pro­spent so many brilliant hours of fessional schools for graduate work, reading and conversation in the fam­
•nith very satisfactory results. ous tower room of Sorin, news of the permanent acquisition of these vol­
When you recommend Notre Dame umes by the University Library will to a boy, you are doing Notre Dame be of particular interest. 
a favor. If he is a fine tj-pe of boy, you're doing yourself a favor. But Prom his wide contacts and his most important of all, you can feel rare appreciation. Prof. Phillips had assured that you are doing the boy a gleaned a library of unusual literary favor. value. Years of selection had made 
his library at the time of his death 
a shrine for himself and one which 
PHrLLIPS' LIBRARY was generously shared with all who 

The ALUMNUS has just learned of chose to enter. It was, during his ten the very generous gift to the Univer­years at Notre Dame, the literary sity Library of the bulk of the private capital of an ever-widening circle of library of the late Prof. Charles Phil­students and faculty. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTBONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is publislied monthly durinsr the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 23 cents. The annua] alumni dues of Sa.OO include a year's sahseription to THE AMIMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters,'Main Floor Administration BIdg., , Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ASMSTSO.VG, Seeretary-Treasitrer 
WILLIAM R. DOOLEY, Assisfont Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
BYEON V. KANALEY, '04 ------- Honorary President 
M. HARKY MILLER, 'lo ----------- President FRANK C. WALKER, '09 - First Vice-President ARTHUR R. CARMODY, '15 ------ Second Vice-President JOHN F. O'CONNELL, '13----------- Director ROBERT E. LYNCH,:'03 ------------ Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94----------- Director FBED L. STEERS, '11------------- Director FRANCIS A. WERNER, '33-------(one year) Director CLARENCE MANION, '22--------(ex officio) Director 



TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
April, 1934 No. 7
voLxn 

Monday, April 16.' / 
Our major objective is observance in some form by EVERY LOCAL CLUB! Big or small, Notre Dame, in your community, is pretty much what YOU mate it. Schedule the kind of party that will include EVERYONE. Ejlaborate entertainment is unnecessary; expense should be avoided. Rather a hundred men and a keg of beer than ten with champagne. Vital issues sometimes aren't attractive. Don't be afraid to RELAX. Enlist the cooperation of as many members as possible in making arrangements. 
Bulletin! 
N. 

FATHER O'DONNELL WILL BE AT N. D. SEND HIM A WORD OF GREETING AND CHEER! 
D. 

It's the last U.N.D. Night of his Presidency. Make it memorable! 
Name a publicity committee early. Identity is one of the major benefits. I nvite as many boys from your community prep schook as you can. Get as many pastors and schoolmen as your guests as circumstances permit. 
Have a whole and wholesome picture of N.D. presented to both alumni and guests. Take the Club's temperature this year. Let's eliminate both chilk and fever. 
Send word of the meeting to the ALUMNUS. Our Lady is our guest of honor. 
Many of our alumni are outstanding. See that this Night recognizes them. Every thing that does credit to a Notre Dame man reflects honor to Notre Dame. Hunt for the N.D. men who haven't been active and have them on hand. O n this One Night of the year, "Notre Dame for All, and All for Notre Dame." 
Worldwide! 
! 

APRIL 16! 
Nominations For National And District Officers, *34-*35 
(Tivo Committees, John P. Murphy, Cleveland; John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, and Hugh A. O'Donnell, Neiu York City; and, Clarence Manion, Notre Dame; Frank E. Hering, South Bend, aiid Byron Kanaley, Chicago,—all past presidents of the Association, submitted the natio^ial officers slates. The Districts iiominations reported this issue were made by District Committees as announced in the 
Fehmary ALUMNUS.) 

HONORARY PRESIDENT Pi-ank C. Walker, '09, New York and Washington. 
PRESroENT Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Hammond, Ind. ]Pi-ed L. Steei-s, '11, Cliicago, HI. 
FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT Dr. J. M. Toner, '00, San Francisco, Calif. Bernard J. Voll, '16, South Bend, Ind. 
SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT 
B. J. Kaiser, '12, Pittsburgh, Pa. Grattan T. Stanford, '04, New York Citj-. 
DIRECTOR FOR FOUR YEAR TERM James E. Deery, '11, Indianapolis, Ind. 
•Timothy P. GaMn, '16, Hammond, Ind. 
* Mr. Galvin appeared on the reports of both Committees, in the posts listed. 
NOMINATIONS FOR THE LIEUTENANT-GOVERNOR­SHIPS OF THE DISTRICTS 
(As received to date.) 
DISTRICT I (No. Ind. and S.W. Mich.) No Report from Committee. 
DISTRICT n (Chicago) Norman N. Feltes, '24, 271 Vernon Ave., Glencoe, 111. James A. Ronan, '26, 4306 W. North Ave., Chicago, HI. 
DISTRICT n i (Ohio, W. Pa., and W, Va.) Henrj' F. Bamhart, '23, Ohio Power Shovel Co., Lima, 0. 
B. J. Kaiser, '12, 324 Fourth -Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
DISTRICT XV (Jlinn. Wis., and N. JDch.) Henry Lauerman,'23,1327 Sheridan Rd., Menominee Mich. 
E. J. Ai-vey, '09, 504 S. Van Buren St., Green Bay, Wis. 
DISTRICT V (Mich.—except N. and S.W.) John T. Higgins, '27, 1632 Buhl Bldg., Detroit, Mich. -Ax-thur W. Stace, '96, 202 E. Wash. St., Ann Arbor, Mich. 
DISTRICT \1 (N. J., E. Pa., Del., D.C.) Charles P. NeUl, '93, 1107 Investment Bldg, Wash., D. C. August G. Desch, '23,1421 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
DISTRICT yi n (New Y-ork—except N.Y'.C.) Gex-ald Ashe, '22, 226 Glen EUyn Way, Rochester, N. Y". Jay L. Lee, '12, 1509 Libert}- Bank Bldg., Buffalo, N. Y. 
DISTRICT r x (New England) John Robinson, '28, 32 Farmington Ave., Waterbuiy, Conn. 
DISTRICT X (Va., N. C, and S. C.) No Report from Committee. 
DISTRICT XI (Ala., Ga., and Fla.) No Report from Committee. 
DISTRICT XII (Ky., S. Ind. and Tenn.) Hugh M. Magevney, Jr., '25, 1787 Union Ave., Memphis, Tenn. 
DISTRICT Xi n (La., Miss and Ai-k.) No Report from Committee. 
DISTRICT XIV (Texas) Harold Tynan, '27, 240 E. Huisache, San Antonio, Texas. William Grady, '17, 4811 Montrose St., Dallas, Texas. 
DISTRICT XV (Kan., Mo., Okla. and S. 111.) John M. Dugan, '27, 4427 Tracy St., Kansas Citj- Mo. Robert Hellrung, '30, 7214 Northmoor Drive, Univei-sity 
City, Mo. 

DISTRICT XVI (N. HI., Iowa and Nebraska) Sher%vood DLxon, '20, 120 E. 1st St., DLxon, HI. Vincent Harrington, '25, Continental Mortgage Co., Sioux 
City, Iowa. 

DISTRICT XVn (Mont., Wyo., N. D. and S. D.) Earl W. Bro%vn, '39, 320 Power St., Helena, Montana. George A. McGee, '01, 616 S. Main St., Minot, N. Dakota. 
DISTRICT XVni (Utah and Colo.) Robert Fox, '01, 5730 17th Ave., Denver, Colo. C.vril Harbecke, '19, 64 F St., Salt Lake City, Utah. 
DISTRICT XIX (S. Cal., Aiiz. and N. Mex.) Thomas H. Heam, '15, 1120 Pacific Finance Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif. 
DISTRICT XX (No. Cal. and Nevada) No Report from Committee. 
DISTRICT XXI (Wash., Ore. and Idaho) No Report from Committee. 
DISTRICT v n (New York City) DISTRICT XXII (Foreign) Edward A. Fallon, '26, 2 Lafayette St., New York City. No Report from Committee. 
April, 193i 197 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Frank Walker, '09, Commencement Speaker 
Most Rev. John M. McNamara, D. D., and Most Rev. Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate, Are To Be At 90th Annual Exercises, According to Announcement. 
His Excellency, the Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Apostolic Delegate to the United States, will preside over the 90th an­nual commencement exercises of the University, it was announced recently 
His Excellency, the Most Reverend Amleto Giovanni Cicognani, D.D., Apostolic Delegate to the U. S. 
by the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, vice-president. The exercises will be held Sunday, June 3. 
The Hon. Frank C. Walker, a grad­uate of the class of 1909, and pres­ent executive secretary of President Roosevelt's Nationa l Emergency Council, will deliver the commence­ment oration. 
The Most Rev. John M. McNamara, D.D., auxiliary bishop of Baltimore, Md., will preach the baccalaureate 
Frank C. Walker, '09, Executive Secretary of President Roosevelt's National Emergency/ Council. 
Archbishop Cicognani has long been interested in Notre Dame through his friendship with the Very Rev. George M. Sauvage, procurator general in Rome, of the Congregation of Holy Cross. This will be His Ex­cellency's first visit to the campus. 
Bishop McNamara has been close­ly associated with members of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Wash­ington for 25 years. Many priests now at Notre Dame assisted in par­ish work under him when he was curate at St. Patrick's parish in Washington. 
Mr. Walker received his LL.B., 

FEENEY TO RECEIVE FLAG ASSOCIATION AWARD 
An International News Service story from Indianapolis on March 1 had the following to say about Al Peeney, '13: 
State Safety Director Al Feeney today was nominated by a committee of three prominent Hoosiers for the 
U. S. Flag association's' Indiana award as the person who contributed most to law enforcement during 1933. 
The committee was composed of Attorney General Philip Lutz, jr., a Democrat, Wilbur G. Nolan . of Fowler, former Benton county pros­ecutor, and Felix McWhirter of In­dianapolis, president of the Indiana Banders' association, both Repub­licans. 
"Feeney is the individual who was most prominent in 1933 in contribu­ting to that branch of law enforce­ment in Indiana having to do with the apprehension and investigation of criminals," the committee held. 
A medal will be presented to Feen­ey with appropriate ceremonies at a degree from Notre Dame in 1909. He returned to Butte, Montana, his home city, where he had a success­ful law career. Business interests brought him to New York City, his present home. 
The Most Reverend John M. McNa­mara, D.D., Auxiliary Bishop of Bal­timore. 
He was one of the original spon­sors of Roosevelt for president, and he became Treasurer of the Demo­cratic National Committee in 1932. It is rumored that he has refused po­sitions in the cabinet on more than one occasion. He has given un­selfish service to the administration, however, in the execution of the re­lief measures passed by Congress to remedy the depression. He has also devoted his time and talents to Uni­versity work as a member of the board of lay trustees. 
date to be set later by the flag asso­ciation. The points on which Feeiiey won tlie award were:, . 
His .advocacy of the establishment of a statewide police' radio system ivith funds derived from public sub­scriptions collected under the aus­pices of the Indiana Bankers' associ­ation. 
His. establishment of the famed road blockade system which fright­ened all active criminals out of the state. . 
His establishment of a state police (Continued on POKC 199) 
198 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 1934 
Layden Greeted at ^Home Town^ Testimonial 
Father O'Hara, Dean McCarthy, Paul Castner, Don Miller and Marchie Schwartz Are Among N. D. Speakers; Carnegie Report Draws Several Attacks. 
BY ARTHUR L. HIMBERT, '32, Secretary, Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities 
Greeted by a crowd of approxim­ately 600 men and boys, including notables in the athletic and educa­tional world and prominent person­alities in business, professional, and religious circles, Elmer Layden, '25, returned home in the role of a con­quering hero to receive the felicita­tions of his fellow townsmen at a testimonial dinner given by the citi­zens of Davenport and sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities, in the Gold Room of the Hotel Blackhawk, Davenport, Thursda y evening, March 1. It was Elmer's first appearance in his home city since he was elevated to the position of athletic director and head football coach at Notre Dame, and the affair was the largest banquet gathering ever held in the Tri-Cities. 
Former teammates of Elmer ex­pressed themselves as confident of his ability in meeting the responsibility of his new position and called the appointment as athletic director and grid coach an ideal one. The selec­tion was given such widespread ap­proval that one of the sepakers dur­ing the evening remarked: "Even our opponents are happy that Layden has been made football coach at Notre Dame. When our enemies rejoice I am forced to grow a little suspicious." 
"I am taking the place of a great Notre Dame man in 'Hunk' Ander­son," said Elmer, as he calmly arose after listening humbly to expressions of congratulations, praise, and best wishes from all sides. "I am follow­ing somebody, too, who can never be surpassed. I am not a Eockne. He taught me everything I know about football. He influenced my entire life. All I can do is my best, and you can rest assured that Notre Dame will get the best that I know how to give." 
Elmer humorously remarked that he has a two-fold program for Notre Dame. His first move, he said, will be to "set up a defense for the down­town coaches," and the other will be to "get the Bendix Corporation to take the brakes off our backs." 
The program was opened ivith the unveiling of two life-sized portraits of Knute Eockne and Elmer Layden, performed during the singing, in re­quiem and march tempo respectively, of the Notre Dame Victory March by John Gerwe, accompanied by Trave O'Heam and his orchestra. Follow­ing the invocation by the Rt. Eev. 
"Erudition" 
"It did not require the losic of Father O'Hara to dbpose of the charec that athletics have been over­emphasized in those schools which have enjoyed sinsnlar records of victor}'. The manner in whidi Layden's team mates and others who had eained fame on the gridiron responded to the call from the toastmaster made answer to that. Those who had electrified countless thousands In stadia from coast to coast, gave evi­dence of a facility of speech, of erudi­tion and of other adornments of the mind which revealed them as much at home at the banquet table as on the football field. 
"No occasion in 3'ear8. through which Davenport sought to honor in a pub­lic manner one held in the high com­munity regard, was so replete in gra­cious expression, so happily punctuated with humor and so vibrant with the spirit of which the immortal Rockne W'as the noblest exemplar." 
rroni an editorial, "Davenport Honors a Native ScMt," m the Davenport Times of March S, ISSi 
William P. Shanahan, vicar general of the diocese of Davenport, brief talks were made by Eichard B. Swift, '20, president of the Notre Dame Club of the Tri-Cities, and Henry C. Wurzer, '25, chairman of the testi­monial executive committee, w^ho in­troduced the toastmaster, George J. McCabe, of Davenport. Mayor George C. Tank, of Davenport, in de­livering the address of welcome, brought a roar from the crowd when he remarked that "the seven mules who were on the line for the 'Four Horsemen' must have been Demo­crats." 
• Don Miller, '25, of Cleveland, Ohio, the only other "Horseman" able to attend, corrected Mayor Tank later in the evening. "The seven mules were not Democrats," said Mil­ler. "They must have been Repub­licans. They never got their names in the papers." 
The recent Carnegie foundation re­port, in which the University of Notre Dame and Southern California were attacked for overemphasizing football, drew the criticism of sev­eral speakers, particularly the Eever­end John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, vice-president, and acting president of Notre Dame. 
"I suppose the proper thing for us to do," declared Father O'Hara, "would be to deflate football because we lost a few games last j'ear. We certainly are not going to deflate a thing that makes us take it on the chin standing up. If we can't take it, then we have lost the reason for our existence. We want the boys of Notre Dame to learn how to take it, and I am mighty sure they proved in 1933 that they can. Football players are not dumb. They couldn't play that kind of a game if they were. I am not worried about overemphasis when a school produces men like El­mer Layden." 
Father O'Hara said that he did not select Elmer Layden as Notre Dame's football coach. "This was done by Father O'Donnell, the president of the University," he revealed. "I al­ways believed Elmer's acid test would be met when it came time for his home town to express itself. He has passed the test tonight and that makes it unanimous." 
Lieutenant Colonel Alexander S. Gillespie, acting commandment of the Eock Island Arsenal, and captain of the 1905 West Point football team, spoke in behalf of the Army, a tradi­tional rival of the Irish. "Football never has been over-emphasized," he said. "It is impossible to overempha­size it. Coaches are paid more than professors because they are worth it. I might add that until recently I was a professor myself. On behalf of the Army, I welcome the appointment of Layden as Notre Dame's coach and hope his 1934 team wins all of its games except one." 
Ossio Solem, football coach at the University of Iowa, who was intro­duced as the "miracle man of Iowa," walked up to the center of the speak­ers' table, and while glancing at Fa­ther O'Hara, said: "This is no place for an old Norwegian with all these 'monsignors' in the crowd." Ossie added that the lowa-Notre Dame game of 1921 was the greatest in the history of middle-west football, and concluded with "I look forward to the resumption of athletic rela­tions between Notre Dame and Iowa. I am anticipating the time when Lay­den leads his team into Iowa." 
Other speakers were Marchmont Schwartz, '33, now backfield coach at the University of Chicago; Rev. D. B. Coyne, director of athletics at Colum­bia College, Dubuque, Iowa; J. E. 

April, 19Si 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
McCarthy, dean of the College of Commerce at Notre Dame;Paul Cast­ner, '23, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Before the presentation to Elmer of an electric clock, with the figure of a football player on top, by John 
C. Schenk, secretary of the Daven­port Chamber of Commerce, Oscar F. Smith, '95, captain of the first Notre Dame baseball team; Judge Patrick Nelson, '88, captain of the first foot­ball team in 1887; "Five Yards" MacCarthy, former University of Chicago star; Harry O'Boyle, '27, a former Notre Dame football star; George Bresnahan, track coach at the University of Iowa; Thomas F. Lay­den, father of Elmer; and A. L Nau­mann, principal of Davenport High School, where Elmer began his foot­ball career, were inti-oduced. 
Telegrams expressing their regrets at not being able to attend the testi­monial were received from Harry Stuhldreher, '25, head coach at Vil­lanova College, and Jimmy Crowley, '25, football coach at Fordham Uni­versity. 
The addresses were broadcast by radio station WHBF, Rock Island, commencing at 8 o'clock. A delay occurred in getting the program un­der way when a number of young­sters forced their way to the speak­ers' tale to have Coach Layden auto­graph programs and memento books. 
Members of the executive commit­tee in. charge of the testimonial were Henry C. Wurzer, chairman; V. 0. Figge, J. Ralph Coryn, Elmer Besten, John O'Donnell, Leo Kuntz, Francis King, and Richard B. Swift. The honorary committee was composed of prominent business and professional men of the Tri-Cities. 
This picture, according to Dick Swift, shows only about 400 of the 000 persons loho attended the Layden ban­quet in Davenport. Father O'Hara, Elmer Layden and Dean McCarthy can he seen among those at the speakers' 
table along with Dick Strift, Paul Castner, Don Miller, and Hank Wurzer. 

NOTRE DAME MAN DESIGNS "MICHIGAN'S FINEST' 
Joseph C. Goddeyne, '11, Bay City, Michigan, is recei^-ing wide praise and publicity as the architect of the new 1500,000 county building in Bay City. Inspected by thousands in the last few weeks, the building is called the most modem of its kind in the state of Michigan. On the exterior it is illuminated by 98 floodlights which help to reveal the beauty and 
character which Mr. Goddeyne con­ceived for it. 
A picture of the building and a picture of Mr. Goddeyne, both clipped from the Bay City Daily Times, were very kindly sent to the Alumni Office by William S. Wilkin, '95, of Bay City. Said Mr. Wilkin in part: "The architect and engineer, Mr. Jos. GoddejTie, an old N. D. man, has made a great name for himself since leaving college." 
FLAG AWARD 
(Continued from Pajre 191> 

barrack system \vith 24-hour patrol­ling of heavily traveled roads. 
His promotion of cooperation and coordination between local and state law enforcement agencies. 
His establishment of a detective department in the state police. 
His equipping of the state police with modem protective and crime-fighting devices. 
His promotion of a state police de­partment built upon civil service. 
Mrs. Brady Receives Laetare Medal For 1934 
Prominent New York Philanthropist Is Eleventh Woman to Receive Award; Is Chairman o{ Girl Girl Scouts of America and Founder of Carroll Cluh. 
Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady, New York philanthropist and present vice-chairman under Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt of the National Women's Committee on Welfare and Eelief Mobilization, was on March 10 named recipient of the 1934 Laetare Medal,, bestowed annually by the University of Notre Dame upon an outstanding member of the American Catholic laity. Mrs. Brady was chairman of the committee before Mrs. Roosevelt. 
The Laetare Medal has been given annually for 51 years and has be­come recognized as the highest honor a Catholic lay person can receive in the United States. The name of the recipient is announced on Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday of Lent each year, a day set aside for rejoic­ing in anticipation of the near ap­proach of Easter. John McCormack, famous tenor, reecived the golden jubilee award last June at the Notre Dame commencement exercises. 
Mrs.' Brady is the 11th woman to receive the award. The latest was Margaret Anglin, famous New York actress. Others were Eliza Allen Starr, Anna Hanson Dorsey, Mrs. James Sadlier, Mary Gwendolin Cald­well, Katherine E. Conway, Mrs. Frances Tieman (Christian Reid), Agnes Repplier, Mary V. Merrick, and Elizabeth Nourse. Miss Anglin received the medal in 1927. 
During the World war, Mrs. Brady purchased the Old Colony club in New York City which was used by the United States government as a: mobilization center for nurses em­barking overseas. The building has been used since the war to house the Carroll club, founded by Ifrs. Brady in honor of her mother, Mary Carroll Garvan, as a dub for business j^rls and professional women; The club is a recognized - center for Catholic women in the furtherance of Catho­lic Action. 
Mrs. Brady is chairman of the board of the Girl Scouts of America, having succeeded Mrs. Herbert Hoov­er. She was a member of the national board for many years. 
Upon the death of her husband in 1930 Mrs. Brady succeeded him as vice-president of the Welfare Coun­cil of New York City and a member of the finance committee of the coun­
cil. She has been vice-chairman of the Social Service Board of New York City since 1906. 
Mr. and Mrs. Brady were honored in 1926 by Pope Pius XI with, the titles of Duke and Duchess, the high­est honor conferred by the Pontiff upon the laity in the United States. The French government decorated 
Mrs. Genevieve Garvan Brady, Re­cipient of the Laetare Medal for 193i. 
Mrs. Brady for her help to the French during the World war. The late King Albert of Belgium in 1928 bestowed the decoration of the Order of the Crown upon Mrs. Brady, and this was presented by the Prince de Ligne. 
Mrs. Brady was bom in Hartford, Conn. She attended the Sacred Heart convent at Manhattanville, N. Y., and the Sacred Heart convent at Providence, R. I. She studied for two years in Dresden and for one year in Paris. 
No date has been set for the pres­entation of the medal. 
The Laetare medal is given by Notre Dame as a recognition of merit and as an incentive to greater achievement. The custom of award­ing it originated with the Papal prac­tive of bestowing the Golden Rose upon a member of the Italian Catho­lic nobility on Laetare Sunday. The practice began at Notre Dame in 1883 with the Very Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first pres­ident of the University. 
Among the 50 names which appear on the roll of previous medalists are persons from every walk of life— statesmen, physicians, artists, writers, financiers, actors, soldiers, scientists. 
engineers, architects, philosophers, jurists, orators, musicians, and econ­omists. 
Among the more recent recipients of the medal are Dr. Stephen S. Maher, the Hon. Alfred E. Smith, the late Edward N. Hurley, Dr. Albert 
F. Zahm, Charles D. Maginnis, Dr. James J. Walsh, Joseph Scott, Charles 
P. Neill, Jack J. Spalding, Frederick 
P. Kenkel, James J. Phelan and John McCormack. 
Mrs. Brady was selected by the medal committee which had been con­sidering its standing list of prospect­ive medalists during the past two months. 
BOy LEADERSHIP COURSE 
Many Notre Dame alumni, en­listed by their parish priests and civic organizations, will be interested in the announcement of the twelfth annual session in Boy Leadership which has just come from Professor 
R. A. Hoyer, '24, head of the boy guidance department, who will serve as director. The 1934 session will begin the morning of July fifth and continue through the afternoon of the fourteenth. As usual, the stu­dents will be housed in one of the residence halls and will eat in the University dining room. The Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Co­lumbus is cooperating with the Uni­versity in the conduct of the course. 
The general purpose of the session is to acquaint Catholic men, eighteen years of age and over, with the best methods and programs for the guid­ance of Catholic boys during their leisure hours. The need for the leisure-time guidance of youth has probably never been more pressing than it is today. The enforced idle­ness of so many of our boys has created a serious problem for boys and parents alike. It is well known that misuse of leisure leads to evil, inevitably to crime and vice. The session in Boy Guidance covers in­stmction in recreation programs and activities well adapted and interest­ing to boys of every age level. 
The school is operated on a cost-to­student basis, with one fee of twenty dollars for meals, lodging, tuition, and literature. Applications should be made to Mr. Hoyer who will be glad to give additional information upon request. A descriptive folder will be available by the end of April. 
Go jWcst Young Man —Greeley And Armstrong 
In Which Young Men of Manhattan and Other Points East Learn, Through School Assemblies, Interviews, Alumni Meetings, Radio, and the Printed Word, the Advantages of Notre Dame. 
Buffalo! Rochester! Syracuse! Utica! Albany! Springfield! Boston! Providence! Waterbury! Bridgeport! New York City! Newark! Bingham­ton! Scranton! AUentown! Philadel­phia! Baltimore! Washington! 
Not a train-caller's nightmare — just that Itinerary, that occupied the better part of six weeks for the Alumni Secretary in a most pleasant, and I trust mutually profitable, man­ner. 
The "mutual" i-amifies to the ex­tent of sixteen Local Alumni Clubs, numerous high and prep schools, more numerous personal interviews, several parish and Knights of Colum­bus gatherings, one Rotary Club and one radio station broadcast, together with the many alumni whose indepen­dent cooperation added materially to the success of the enterprise, both from the University and peisonal an­gles. Also, to the key ciHes men­tioned can be added a number of associated communities to which, come sleet come storm, visits were made possible. 
Space forbids justice to the men and the institutions whose helpfulness will undoubtedly be rewarded by the stimulation of that splendid phase of Catholic Action, the promotion of the interest of Catholic higher education. 
I shall give only a short resume of the trip, in the hope that it ^vill carry between the few actual lines those vast interlinear implications of effort, of sacrifice, of cooperation, of con­structive contribution in every way, that marked this year the response of the Notre Dame Clubs, and the men who compose them, to this responsi­bility of the Association. 
Starting Februarj- 15 in Buffalo, where winter records of years stand­ing had already been shattered, an alumni meeting generally was not called because of weather, and be­cause a fine turnout had been held the week previous. The Club is on the jump, enjoying a Recovery Act of its own and needed no encourage­ment. President Henry Bums, Paul HoefHer, Jay L. Lee and Joe Shea, the latter a suave and genial part of the Statler set-up, had made the nec­essary arrangements. The always cor­dial St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute extended through Brother Cassian an opportunity to address the senior class there. Bennett, one of the fine Buffalo high schools, extended an opportunity to discuss Notre Dame there. Drove out with Paul Hoeffler to a new, up-and-coming high school just outside Buffalo in Amherst. Met the friendly and interesting librarian there. Miss Ray. Had a nice chat with Dr. Robert Burns, District Governor, the telephone overcoming the ele­ments. 
Arrived in Rochester February 18, with a Sunday night supper at Gerry Smith's waiting, followed by an in­formal meeting of the alumni at the Sagamore. Visited John Marshall, West and Madison high schools and found a fine interest in Notre Dame. Aquinas, whose friendship for Notre Dame has always been reflected in a large number of students on the Uni­versity's roster, found it impossible to make arrangements within the limited time at my disposal. Father Grady was absent, but stopped to say hello to Father Wurzer, the assistant prin­cipal. Ward Schlotzer got up from an attack of pleurisy to perfonn his executive duties. Bill Jones was very kind and efficient as tour conductor. Jerrj' "Kid" Ashe was, as always, on the job. A regular meeting of the Club was held on Monday night at the Sagamore. With the "hotel in­terview" system supplementing the meetings and school activities, could not get out much to look up the fel­lows I missed, such as, in Rochester, "Stubby" Flynn and a few familiars. 
In Syracuse February 20. Found Father Joe Toomey interpreting Cath­olic Charities to include freighting .A.lumni Secretaries about the school city. The success of his cooperation is indicated by the results. We visited, and spoke in each case to the entire senior class, five high schools — St. Mary's Cathedral High School and St. John the Evangelist High School in the morning, and Christian Brothers Academy, St. Lucy's High School and St. John the Baptist High School in the afternoon. George Kelley, unable to make the dinner planned, stopped in for a fine personal visit. The rest of the crowd, in encouraging num­bers, were on hand for the dinner and meeting which President Vincent Brown and Leo Kelley had arranged in time for me to make the ever-present schedule that sped me through these othenvise alluring stops. 
Paying my first call on the infant Club in Utica, Feb. 21, I found it en­joying much of the wisdom and dig­nity of its elders. Spoke to all the boys in St. Francis de Sales High School and the Utica Catholic Acad­emy. Doctor John Kelly had made numerous fine arrangements. That I fulfilled them was ably seen to by Doc, Frank Donalty and Joe Fullem, who spent the day at it. In the .even­ing a fine turnout of the Club joined in a Notre Dame dinner at the hotel, from which pleasant exchange of en­lightenment we rushed to the audi­torium of Our Lady of Lourdes Church, where I was the guest speak­er at a meeting of the Men's Club. Enjoyed a number of pleasant con­tacts through my "bodyguard." The whole city, thanks to the efforts of Doc Kelly and the Club, was looking forward to the visit of the University Glee Club on .4pril 4. 
To the Capitol District, headquar­tering in Albany. John Meehan came through great snowdrifts on Wash­ington's Birthday to take me over to Schenectady. St. Columba's High School there was in session and Father Thompson and the Sisters very Idndly invited me to speak to the assembly. Visited the famous G-E plant where several of our alumni, John Huether, Frank Duquette and Owen D. Young are doing very nicely. Even as a journalist, I enjoyed the House of Magic. Due to weather conditions, we held a sub-Club meet­ing that night at Meehan's with the host. Jack Huether, Frank Duquette and Dave and Jim O'Brien. Next day between President Tom DoUard and Frank Disney, I visited the always cordial Vincentian Institute and Christian Brothers Academy in Al­bany, and the Catholic Central High School in Troy. A fine turnout of alumni assembled at Keeler's Restaur­ant for the alumni meeting Friday night. 
Springfield was the one big air pocket of the trip. My correspond­ence to Pat Granfield was evidently sidetracked, and the result was that Pat was away on a West Indies cruise or some such tropical venture, with no word left behind. Couldn't locate Mickey Kane, and meanwhile the most able and efficient of the several blizzards en route seemed about to locate me in the Connecticut Valley. Having paid my respects to Cathedral High School by phone, I then seized time by the forelock and headed for Boston. 
In Boston, the blizzard accompany­ing me was being met at the depot by a very outstanding blizzard which had arrived a week earlier. Nevertheless, Joe Gartland, District Governor, braved it to take me to dinner, and. 
April, 1934

202 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
the following day Charley "Red" Crowley and I enjoyed an almost snowbound New England for a 20­mile trek to Danvers, where I inter­viewed a number of boys at St. John's. Contacted Boston English High School the following day and spoke to fine group. The blizzard made a meeting impossible. But in addition to Joe and Charley, I en­joyed dinner with President Joe Sul­livan and Secretary Bob Heam. Eddie Anderson is going to school day and night and Sunday, making a hit in every direction. John Mc-Manmon is prominent in the i-acing circles, having launched the McMan­mon stable. Father O'Hara's ^-isit had 
recently brought out the Club's fine strength. 
Rhode Island, with Providence headquarters, was, as usual, waiting for me with a full program. Talked to the students of the Christian Brothers at St. Raphael's. Filled in with a talk to the girls at St. Xavier's, and visited the Holy Cross Brothers and their students at the Blon.'iignor Coyle High School in Taunton. En­joyed a splendid alumni meeting. Visited Brown U. and Providence College. Had a fine \'isit with Dr. Ellen Eyan Jolly. Visited the Trap­pist Monastery at Central Palls. En­joyed the hospitality of President Charley Grimes throughout the entire stay. The Providence Club, and sev­eral of the other smaller Clubs along the route, were encouraging and con­vincing exhibits of what a small but active group of Notre Dame alumni can accomplish for Notre Dame in­terests through the various Ciub ac­tivities. Rhode Island's achievements are constant news. 
Waterfaury was still teeming with Notre Dame enthusiasm after the visit of Father John O'Hara. Presi­dent John Robinson was on hand, for­tunately in the last stages of con­valescence from a back injury. Sup­pered at the Robinson home, with its 
N. D. - St. Mary's atmosphere, John, Joe and Mary. Met Jim Monaghan, who is internal revenuing, and Wal­ter Buckley. Interviewed boys both at Crosby and Wilby High Schools. Most interesting was a visit to Rox­bury School where John teaches. (Waterbury Studebaker dealer loaned President for trip, the courtesy being much appreciated.) Addressed the very fine Rotary Club at its luncheon. Enjoyed an alumni meeting, which was augmented by a very fine address by Bill Farrington, city editor of the Democrat and president of the Conn, alumni of Catholic U. Also enjoyed seeing Roger Beime, '33, plajing stock in Waterbury. 
Walter "Bud" Stapleton, now a big broker in Waterbury, drove me do\vn, with a friend of his, from Waterbury to Bridgeport, for a very enjoyable break in "training." Met the Fairfield County alumni group in Bridgeport, shy the guiding genius of Jim Mur­phy, who couldn't resist a tropical trip 

(as who could in such weather?). Elmer Harkabus, '33, and Frank Hur­ley, '33, proved to be seasoned alum­ni in getting me around. Visited Warren Harding High, where Oscar Lavery, '25, made such a brilliant record as a teacher before his death. Enjoyed also \-isits to Bridgeport High School and the Junior College of Conn. Bridgeport has a fine group of fellows in a territorj' where Noti-e Dame popularitj' has been as long standing as the histor>' of the famous Murphy family, at least. With due respect for the large Clubs, it was the cooperation and activity of the small ones that were most heartening. 
Doc Gelson met me at the train to launch an intensive New York cam­paign. The McAlpin Hotel extended the courtesy of headquarters to me. The next morning Henrj' Frey,. not knowing my jinx, drove me out to Hempstead where Eddie Fallon and his uncle met us and I talked at Hempstead High. A blizzard began, which made us a half hour late at the magnificent plant of LaSalle Military Academy, at Oakdale. The Christian Brothers, through Brother Joseph, were very kind, and I enjoyed a period with the senior class despite the delay. Back through the storm to a contrastingly fine evening at the Catholic Centre with the Board of Governors at dinner and a general Club meeting later. The next after­noon Jack Lavelle drove me out to .A.11 Hallows H. S., where he coaches football, and there I addressed the boys. We drove on out to Manhattan and Fordham, seeing the four horse­men of Fordham going through their paces — Crowley, Earl Walsh, Car-berry and Leahy. Saturday after­noon met prospective students at the Catholic Centre, through invitations extended by the Club. This brief account omits numerous pleasant and hospitable contacts of a more per­sonal sort that none the less added greatly to the stop. 
So it was in New Jersey. "I would that my tongue could utter" . . . President Bob Phelan and the king's henchman, Tom Farrell, had me lined up for three, days of activity. Sunday morning, enjoyed talking at a com­munion breakfast of St. Benedict's Prep School alumni .. . in the after­noon visited the Mercier Club, headed by Jack Adams and including several 
N. D. alumni on its directorate . . . Monday talked at St. Aloysius High, Jersey City, St. Marj^'s High in Ruth­erford, and St. Benedict's in Newark. A fine alumni meeting at the Newark 
A. C. filled the evening. Tuesday talked at St. Michael's High School, Union City, St. Cecilia's High School in Englewood, St. Joseph's High School in Paterson, and Immaculate Conception High School in Montclair. It was hard to leave so pleasant a spot (yes, even in spite of the whip-cracking Farrell). 

But in Binghamton, the Triple Cities headquarters, I soon forgot New Jersey in the set-up President Joe Carey had for me. Visited the public high schools of Binghamton, Johnson City and Endicott in the morning. Talked for 15 minutes in my radio debut from Station WNBF. Addressed the assembly at St. Paul's High in Binghamton. Returned to WNBF for a 15-minute question box with announcer Tom McMahon. Had a dinner with the alumni at the hotel, and talked to the men of St. Paul's parish at 9 p. m., after their Lenten services. Visited St. Patrick's High School, but arrived too late to meet with the students. Wound up the day until train time with Regis McNa­mara, my guide and counselor of the day, playing bridge with the Joe Hennessys, the Bob Rices and Joe Carey and his companion. 
Found Scranton, without a Club as yet, active nevertheless. James D. Jordan, 'DT, had made arrangements ^vith Rev. Stephen O'Boyle, Hob-Rosary High School, for me to speak to the students. Discovered Sr. Cor­mack, a loyal alumna of Notre Dame, teaching there. Ed Shean served as my guide for the day, joined by Bill Bums. Bob Golden and Joe O'Hora joined the party later on. Spoke in the evening to a fine group at St. Paul's auditorium, following Lenten services. Very gracious introduction by Msgr. Hussie. After the address, time remaining before entraining, we stopped at the Drake, a dine-and­dance establishment just opened in Scranton by Vincent Brennan, '98. Took a sleeper for the short haul to .\Ilentown, to get in early enough to satisfy the demands of the program there. 
President Leo Mclntyre, from his heights on the Bethlehem board of education, had surveyed the scene and acted in his usual whirlwind fashion. Opened with a talk to the students of Central Catholic High in Allentown, followed by a talk to the students of Allentown Catholic High. A luncheon brought me into contact with a group of leading men of Allen­town and Bethlehem. We missed an invitation to talk to the students of Bethlehem Catholic High, through a misunderstanding of their Friday dis­missal hour. Spoke to the seniors of Bethlehem High later in the after­noon. Met with a few of the alumni Friday night at a very pleasant din­ner. Saturday interviewed students, visited Lehigh U., and drove into the Poconos Mts. to dine at Skytop Club, 
(Continued' on Pace 206) 

THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
0*er Thy Prairies Verdant Growing, Illinois, lllinoisi 
Or, if you prefer, an account of the Illinois tour of the Dooley section of the Armstrong-
Dooley 
The time had come to leave home, family, and University and go out into the wide state of Illinois to visit high schools and alumni according to a general plan made known in pre­vious issues of the ALUJINUS. The "campaign" ahead was based upon alumni coopei^ation in nearly every city I was to visit. 
AURORA 
Spending the week-end in La Salle, Illinois, in the home of my parents, I left early Monday morning, Febru­ary 19, for Aurora, about 70 miles distant. The thermometer registered well below zero, the winds howled beautifully through my 1930 Ford and in places a heavy snowstorm of the previous day had left the high­way all but impassable. Certainly, an impressive beginning for the first day of my first trip! No verdant prairies anywhere! 
Hotel Aurora, operated by the Gos­selin boys of Notre Dame, was a wel­come sight. Soon after my arrival Clarence Ruddy, '27, who was mak­ing arrangements for me, came in to warm up my chilled spirits; and from that time on I didn't have time to get cold in Aurora. Clarence had en­listed the aid of Bill Chawgo, '31, and the two of them had prepared a day that didn't have a let-down in it. They devoted their entire day to me. 

First, out to East High for a brief chat with the very kind principal. Then to West High to interview 15 or 20 boys who w^ere interested in Notre Dame. Lunch with Clarence and Bill at the Union League Club. Back to East High for an introduction by Clarence, an alumnus of the high school, at the general assembly fol­lowed by a conference with a dozen or so East High boys. 
From East High we hurried out to Marmion Academy, conducted by the Benedictine Fathers formerly of Jasepr, Indiana. Hospitality reigns supreme at Marmion. Not even the remembrance of that sudden sinking spell I experienced when I found out that I was supposed to deliver a "lec­ture" to the assembled student body can quite efface the recollection of the hospitality of Marmion and par­ticularly of Father Norbert, the head­master. I'm quite positive that on this occasion, my first talk on my first trip, I didn't deliver anything faintly resembling a lecture, but, even so, a large number of the boys turned up to talk with me afterwards. 
 travel bureau. Alumni office, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Following the Marmion episode, 

' Bill and I dashed around to call on the local priests, including Rev. James F. Mulcaire, '29, recently or­dained, who is assistant at the Church of Our Lady of the Angels in Au­rora. Later, dinner with Clarence Ruddy, who, incidentally, was en­gaged in a hot campaign for the Democrat nomination for state repre­sentative. After dinner some of the other local alumni dropped in, de­spite the severe cold and icy streets. Among these were Father Mulcaire, Carl Schickler, '27, Herb Braun, '27, and Bill Amell, '06. I was glad to get between the feathers that night. 
ELGIN 
Lawrence McNemey, '06, of Elgin, had been out of town until the day before my arrival and so wasn't able to aiTange any high school confer­ences. With the information which he gave me at lunch in the Elks' Club, however, and with the aid of announcements which had been made in the Catholic churches I was able to make known the Notre Dame story in several different ways. Some of the prospective students came to see me in my headquarters in the FO.K Hotel. Altogether, it was a very enjoyable day and with the generous and very kind assistance of Mr. McNemey 
(whose son, John, is to be graduated from the University this June) a profitable one. 
I stopped to see Paul Funk, '24, in his law office and we had a long chat about Paul's days as editor of that good old organ, the Notre Dame Daily, of beloved memory. Paul Tobin, '28, was working in an office just across the hall from Paul Funk's, but he was out when I called. Like­wise, Elmer Tobin, '17, whose office was in a building next to my hotel, was in Chicago when I called. Frank 
A. McCarthy, '06, state representa­tive from that district, was in Spring­field, the legislature being in session. 
Between times in Elgin I got around to see the priests and found them very cordial and helpful. 
ROCKFORD 
Early in the morning of Wednes­day, February 21, I started on a skiddy 40 miles between Elgin and Eockford. (Yea, Petritz!) At the impressive Faust Hotel in Rockford I soon got in touch with Bob Doran, '26, who was making local arrange­ments and we had lunch together. 
Right after lunch we hurried out to St. Thomas High School where we met Frank Howland, '25, and Say Marelli, '27, and where with the kind permission of very generous priests I was able to address the entire stu­dent body. Afterwards a large num­ber of the boys remained to ask ques­tions. Notre Dame interest reached a new high there. 
Rockford High School doesn't per­mit visits such as I had in mind, so the remainder of my time in Rock­ford—I .stayed there over Washing­ton's Birthday—^was spent largely in individual conferences with boys and parents, many of which had been ar­ranged by the active and interested local alumni. With Bob Doran, my constant and self-sacrificing compan­ion in Eockford, I also called on the Rockford priests. 
Thursday evening, February 22, the boys arranged an informal but very happy get-together. Among those present were Mike Lorden, '24, Al Monti, '30, Henry Fanning, '24, Bob Doran, '26, and Ray MareUi, '27. Prank Howland, '25, had expected to be present but at the last moment was taken ill. Frank Petritz, '03, father of Joe, '32, publicity director of the University, was also to be among those present, but unfortu­nately sleep overcame him too early in the evening. I saw him for a few minutes the next morning. 
DIXON 
Drifting down along the Rock River, I stopped at the Dixon High School at its annual "College Day" program and talked with several boys interested in Notre Dame. In be­tween times I had lunch with Willard Jones, '25, Bob Dixon, '25, and Paul Pry, '27. They had news of Harry McGuire, '25, who lives in nearby Mt. Morris where his magazine Out­door Life is published as well as of Red Lahey, '28, and Sherwood Dixon, '20. Jerry Jones, '22, was at home sick that day but I saw him later at the Layden banquet in Davenport. Dr. Dave Murphy, '25, has in a short time attained a remarkable reputation and is everywhere spoken of as one of northern Illinois' finest yotug doc­tors. I had a delightful dinner that evening in the beautiful new home of Dave and his charming wife. 
Despite the Cahill-Cass influence was able to leave the town unmo­lested and got back to La Salle to spend the week-end and check up. ' 
Aiynl, 19Si

SPRINGFIELD 
The state capitol, on Monday, Feb­ruary 26, was the biggest surprise of all. Hearing nothing in advance as to arrangements for my visit, im­agine my pleasure, following a freez­ing ride from La Salle, when I found that Bob Graham, '26, and Bud Zim­merman, '26, had not only made complete plans for the day, but had also got together about 30 alumni for a dinner at which a new Notre Dame club was formed. I stayed at the Abraham Lincoln Hotel, but my head­quarters were at the splendid large 
K. of C. Club and Community Cen­ter. A separate story will appear in this ii!sue as to the formation of the new club. Amidst snow a foot deep my school visits in Springfield began at Springfield Junior College, where I found Dean Augustine Confrey, formerly of the Notre Dame faculty, a very kind and hospitable host and Clare Hafel, '25, a member of the faculty. I later found out that Dave Neal, '33, is a member of the same faculty, but unfortunately I didn't meet him. 
Following lunch at the K. of C. Grill with Bud and Bob (who were my constant and valued companions through most of the day and all of the evening) we paid a vigit to the huge Springfield High School and talked with about 20 of the boys who are interested in Notre Dame. Later we stopped at Cathedral High School for boys, but found out from a very cordial principal that we were just too late to talk that day with his boys. Despite the fact that the school is run by the Viatorian priests from St. Viator's College we had a whole­hearted invitation to return at a later date. Such courtesy was deeply ap­preciated. The Cathedral boys deep­ly interested in going to Notre Dame, had been invited to the alumni dinner that evening. 
PEORIA Advance notices from Al Gury, '28, president of the Notre Dame Club of Peoria, had indicated that he was building me up in a big way through the newspapers and other channels. So I was prepared for a big day—and I found, one. Al had taken the day off-from his duties as manager of the first floor in Peoria's largest depart­ment store to steer me around. At noon I spoke for 15 or 20 minutes to one of the city's leading clubs, the Optimists, where Charles Motsett, father of Bourke, '31, and Bill, '34, introduced me. Following my talk the members asked me questions about Notre Dame for 10 or 15 min­utes. Al Gury wanted me to spend two days in Peoria in order to talk to another luncheon dub, hut I couldn't arrange my schedule accord­ingly. 

Since I. had only a day to spend in Peoria I devoted my entire school-visiting time to Spalding Institute, one of the most fervently Notre Dame spots in these United States. As if it were not enough to have a dozen or so Spalding boys now stu­dents at Notre Dame—^two of these, Voegele and Peters, basketball stars —and John Noppenberger, '25, the Spalding athletic director and coach, I found among them the Benedictine priests now conducting Spalding many of my old friends from St. Bede Academy, Peru, Illinois, my alma mater. The result: when I got up to talk to the entire student body, they cheei'ed. -After the assembly, I talked with a large number of boys who are intensely interested in com­ing to Notre Dame and spent the rest of the afternoon with the priests and with Noppie. 
Followed a visit to my old stamp­ing grounds, the office of the Peoria Journal-Transcript where they gave their former co-worker a long, loud razz for turning from newspaper work to oratory — thanks to Gury, who had billed me as a famous ora­tor. For the evening, Al had ar­ranged an informal dinner of the Peoria club at the Jefferson Hotel where I was stopping. Those pres­ent included Spalding Sleven, '02, Bemie Leahy, '32, Al Gury, '28, Er­nie Hechinger, '32, Ed Carey, '32, Vince Rickey, '34, Jack Greisser, '34, Fred Myer, '33, Al Welzenbach, '30, Floyd Genin, '29, Francis Puld, '31, Art Fulton, '29, and Joe Langton, '28. John Noppenberger's basketball team was playing a game that night and Al Culver, '32, who is working with Bemie Leahy in Peoria, wasn't able to get around. The boys were lajang their plans for the regular meeting to be held in Bloomington the next week. The Bloomington boys meet with the Peoria club. 
-Wter the dinner AX, my wife (who had driven down from Kewanee for the evening) and I stopped in to a delightful party which John Noppen­berger and his wife were having in their home. After that we delivered the invaluable Gury to his home for some well earned rest. 
BLOOMINGTON 
The hospitalitj' of Frank Ober­koetter, '32, and his delightful mother and aunt are among my happy mem­ories of Bloomington. I stayed with them in their home at Frank's insist­ence. Frank and I called in the morn­ing at Trinity High School and I talked to all of the boys of the school. Afterwards I had a special, and very interesting, session with the Seniors. All of them seemed much interested in Notre Dame. My thanks here to the very cordial Sisters who made possible this excellent contact. 

With Frank, I stopped at Bloom­ington High School in the afternoon, but the hour assigned by the school— after the last class—^wasn't so good and none of the boys showed up for the supposed conferences. Calls on the local clergy took up the rest of the day. In the evening the local boys got together for a dinner and subsequent "session" that lasted rath­er well into the night. Those who "signed in" were: March Wells, '16, Ralph Dalton, '31, Frank Oberkoet­ter, '32, Don Waterson, '33, Wilbur Waterson, '32, Francis Wochner, '33, Frank Dewenter, '31, and Joe Con­ley, '31. 
KEWANEE Thursday morning, March 1, I drove a hundred miles to my -ivife's home port, Kewanee, and hurriedly got re-established with the Dooley offspring before dashing into Ke­wanee High School for a fine talk to, and conference with, 25 or so boys who were interested in Notre Dame. Later in the afternoon I went out to Wethersfield High School in Kewanee for a similar session. And still later with my brother-in-law. Chuck Terry, who will be a Freshman at Notre Dame next Fall, I scurried away for the Layden Banquet in Davenport, 50 miles away. As to said banquet, see the story in this issue. After the eating and speaking. President Dick Swift, of the Tri-Cities Club, spon­sored a special session upstairs at which I talked -(vith a great many of the alumni from far and near. 
In Kewanee, Rev. William P. Burke, a former Notre Dame student (el. '28) who is pastor of Visitation Church, was very kind to me, even offering to let me talk in church after each of the Sunday Masses. I talked \vith Tom Welch, '05, and Paul Zang, '29, and Henry Zang, '29. Ralph Sjoberg, '21, former baseball star, and Sam Rinella, '32, are also in Kewanee and I'll be seeing them on some later trip to that metropolis. 
I made my headquarters in Ke­wanee for the next several days and conducted one-day jaunts to nearby points. The first of these on Friday, March 2, was 
GALESBURG 
As the result of information sup­plied by Prince Slaven, '27, I went directly to Corpus Christi High School (which though comparatively small as to students has about a doz­en boys at Notre Dame this year) but found that class had been dis­missed for the day because of the downstate Catholic basketball tour­nament in Jacksonville. I made ar­rangements to return the following Tuesday and did so. The Corpus Christi basketball team had just won 
(Continued on Page 209) 

April, 19Si 205 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Father H udson. The Pioneering Editor 
REV. PATRICK J. CARROLL, C .S. C 
(Reprinted from America for March 3, 1934). 
I do not pretend to have known Father Hudson intimately; not in the sense of entering into his councils, going away from a chat in his room with all his mind. He rarely gave all his full mind to anybody. I remem­ber him acting out his quiet life in a fourfold drama. And his character presentation seems different in each, yet with the same detached, shrink­ing essence permeating them all. He was an ascetic without harshness or hardness; a hermit who knew the movements of the world through the looking glass of newspaper and mag­azine; an editor whose blue-covered magazine held the culture, tone, sweetness of his mind; a spare, white-headed, scantily bearded man of ret­icent approach, ^vith a sense of hu­mor that rippled and was never loud. 
When it is said that Father Hud­son was an ascetic, it is not meant he was a man who gave long periods to prayer and retired into his cell to apply to himself traditional phys­ical penances. He may have done so, but he would looked pained if you hinted any such suspicion. He stole into the chapel to pray quietly, and went about in the dusk talking to the Blessed Virgin through his beads. They served somewhat the purpose of a telephone to his Queen. He rarely talked what we call "pious" talk, keeping his piety within the se­clusion of his thoughts. Consider him a religious man, but do not stress external evidences of piety. 
He had the hermit soul. He loved his cell, or its modem substitute—^his room. He had three rooms. One he worked in, reading Catholic papers, writing his "Notes and Remarks," appraising manuscripts. He had an­other room in which he slept; yet an­other where books were kept and where he worked sometimes, perhaps for a change. He liked company, if it were not numerous and talked of the things he liked. And he kept to himself for long periods, always with a pencil and pad. 
He was exclusively editor of the _ Ave Maria. He was never in the ad-"^ 
* ministrative councils of Notre Dame ' 
"^ by appointment, yet was frequently called into conference. He was con­sidered wise, cautious, but not re­treating; and often his advice, given not too insistently, was followed. When distinguished people came to the University, ^vithin- which Father Hudson lived but never was a part 
of, it was the invariable custom to take them to see the editor of the Ave Maria. And without exception, the most permanent memory they took away w^as of a diminutive priest whose speech was low and penetrat­ing. He preached on occasions in the college church. His preaching voice was high, persuasive, and suggestive of prophets, or announcers of cru­sades. He was a model for all church orators in this — he was never too long. Fifteen minutes served him fully for what he had to say. Fre­quently his theme was the Blessed Virgin; always the Blessed Virgin when he spoke on the closing night of May devotions. 
As editor, he received letters from everybody. And he answered these letters in his own hand, never per­mitting himself to be swept out from his moorings on the efficiency wave of typewriter and secretary. His let­ters were often written on a card in a small, regular script; and his achievements in refusing manuscripts might well he inserted in manuals of diplomacy schools. Once he sent back some verses to this writer with this consoling bit, "You have done so much better, I know you will not want this to appear." 
When you called, you often found him correcting proofs; perhaps he picked up the proofs when he heard you coming to indicate to you he was busy. Then if you succeeded in switching him into a siding which pleased him—^Maurice Francis Egan's type of humor, Charles Warren Stod­dard's spelling. Archbishop John Lan­caster Spalding's resounding preach­ments on higher education—^he would forget the main line. 
Perhaps the most interesting side of Father Hudson was his humanness. To Col. William Hoynes of the Law School he went for recreational stim­ulus. The Colonel was of Johnsonian speech. Father Hudson rather leaned to Anglo-Saxon. The editor might assert adverse opinion of some politi­cal figure not in favor with the Col­onel. "Eminently correct. Dr. Hud­son!" Of evenings, too. Father Hud­son would read clippings from au­thors, emphasizing telling points with voice and head motion. The man of law served somewhat the purpose of a Greek chorus. "A comprehensive, altogether telling indictment!" "In­comparable!" In Lent Father Hud­son and the Colonel abstained from their simple, recreational exchanges in the Colonel's room out of consid­eration for the season. 
Sometimes Father Hudson would enact the Colonel's particular role in the very presence of the Colonel him­self. "Thus one day, walking by, the Colonel carried a large, heavy stick. 
"Colonel, are you afflicted with the pedal infirmities of declining years?" 
"No, no. Dr. Hudson. It is merely a provisional weapon to ward off pos­sible incursions of ill-natured ca­nines." 
Father Hudson took no interest in college sports, though he simulated interest. Likely he did so not to seem unusual. He expressed his awareness of what was going on in the playing field by asking some priest returning from a game of foot­ball, "Who won?" 
"We won." 
"Good!" 
When the radio came to stay he 
seemed perplexed. He conversed free­ly in company with oiie or two, but did not seem to take to group con­versation. When the radio enter­tained, everybody listened. He lis­tened and wondered. And when it expressed itself as a gash of sound, as it did—and does—^he looked at the instrument in a frightened way, as if it were a horror. 
Of the secular papers he liked the New York Sun and frequently quoted it. Later, when the morning Sun was discontinued, he favored the Herald Tribune. The Month and the London Tablet, both published in England, were his favorite Catholic publications. Archbishop Spalding, Archbishop Ireland, Archbishop Keane, Archbishop Glennon, Bishop McQuade, Bishop McDevitt were among his friends in the American hierarchy, with all of whom he kept up correspondence. Of priests he frequently spoke of the Irish Jesuit, Father Matthew Russell, Father Wal­ter Eliot, the Paulist; and many, many more. All his contributors were, so to speak, members of his literary family whom he held high by virtue of personal loyalty. Young writers he encouraged, without un­duly flattering them. 
He is known to have left his work and his rooms for an overnight so­journ only twice. The first occasion was to attend the funeral of Bishop McQuade; the second to visit the 
206 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS April, 19Si 
at N. D., coming here at the turn of the century. He is now chairman of 
. the board of the Maryland Commer­cial Bankers, Inc. Stopped at Calvert Hall College, and was invited back by the Christian Brothers, through Brother Vincent, to address the boys on my next trip, school not then be­ing in session. Visited Tom's busi­ness, the Clement and Ball women's shoe factory. (Glad I was traveling stag.) The Baltimore contingent of alumni, being so few, is planning on joining the now numerous and active Washington Club. 
In the shadow of such excellent Catholic institutions on all sides, the preparatory schools in Washington were naturally not contacted except for the splendid St. John's High, Christian Brothei-s military school, which sent us the only students from the D. of C. this year. Charley Manix was my confidential guide to Washington, aided and abetted by Henry Watts Eicher and the active President Jim Hayes. Other arrange­ments were typical of similar cooper­ation by the large number of N. D. men now occupying the national spot­light. The Washington stay was very much a matter of personalities. Talked with the busy Frank Walker by phone. Was in the sanctum of the equally busy Ambrose O'Connell. Vis­ited the Senate through the courtesy of Frank Bon, secretary to Sen. Carey (Wyo.). As nearly as I could figure out, N. D. is about as much Notre Dame as New Deal. The alum­ni meeting as a fine one. A large number of f amiliar faces, gathered though they were from the four cor­ners of the U. S., were on hand. New life, has come with new blood, and the splendid nucleus which has been held together in the District for a number of years by Dr. Flynn and his contemporaries is blossoming into a Club of significant proportions. Needless to say, I visited Holy Cross, and, more than that, spent a very pleasant hour with the efficient Dr. Maurice Sheehy at Catholic U., dis­cussing alumni affairs. 
It was a most happy and rallying ending to a trip which, with all its pleasures and palaces, was bringing the home-sweet-home concept nearer and dearer. To the hundreds of alumni who cooperated to make this trip a success, apologies for the ex­igencies of memory and space which have omitted specific mention.' In no case, let me repeat, do the few lines begin to express the Notre Dame loy­alty and spirit and activity which were present. It augurs well for the future of both Notre Dame and the Alumni Association. 
We have more Clubs and more places to cover yet this year. Until then . . . 
stricken ArcWbishop Spalding of Pe­oria. There is an oral tradition to the effect that he had to borrow a hat and coat at each departure. Of evenings, very rarely, he went to the city with his friend. Colonel Hoynes. On one of these unusual town visits, I remember seeing himself and his friend — the Colonel rather larger than the average man, the editor rather smaller—^sitting on two stools in an East Side drug store enjoying an ice-cream soda. A priest who was a helping editor for several years told me Father Hudson had a fond­ness for those high stools before lunch counters. He occupied one on a certain afternoon and ordered a lunch. It must have been a light lunch, for the editor priest was an extremely light eater. 
In the presbji;ery where he lived eggs in the shell were sometimes served for breakfast; a great many eggs in a deep dish. "Take one," someone said to Father Hudson. "Oh, no, no! They cannot be good—^there are too many of thera!" Perhaps he feared they were all laid by the same hen. 

When someone suggested to Father Hudson that he write signed articles he made a very characteristic, de­precatory gesture with partly ex­tended hands, palms out, "No, no! I'm not a writer. I'm just an edi­tor." The reason for the just before editor is not so apparent. And yet he wrote with such accuracy and flu­ency in his own right; and his modifi­cations and suppressions in manu­scripts made what others wrote more accurate and fluent. One woman tes­tifies that when she noted certain changes in her stories printed in the Ave Maria, every change made was a change for the better. 
That part of Father Hudson which was Irish must have given him his liking for ghostly visitations. He reveled in ghost lore. One summer night I remember sitting with him on the steps of Science Hall. He drifted into ghost recitals. I, who was bom where ghosts move and have their being, felt this snowy-haired American priest, his biretta at the little characteristic angle, could not stir any night frights in me. He went on and on in a quavering musi­cal voice in a quaint, detached ser­iousness, as if the incidents narrated were out of death into life. It was 
11:30 when I suggested we go to our rooms. He seemed loath to go. I almost felt he was seeing spirits. And he looked not unlike a spirit himself. I was quite happy when I got back to my room that there was an electric switch just inside the door. 
Father Hudson illustrates living in life, and yet not of life. He might have been a Trappist, yet even then he would want to see the world pass­ing by. Not all the world, but that part of it he liked. And that part was the best part. He lived serenely, yet eagerly within his chosen aloof­ness. He had all the sweeter things of sanctity with very few of those uglier foreign substances that adhere to sanctity sometimes. Those who are external will say he did not live. He did live within a small physical world of his own making; but in a large world of ideas and ideals where his mind ranged within a wide com­pass. 
'GO WEST yOUNG MAN' 
(Continued 

where the American Alumni Council Convention is to be held April 25-28. Sunday afternoon, addressed a spec­ially called parish and K. of C. meet­ing at Bethlehem Catholic High School. Was scheduled for Monday morning at the Allentown High, but had previously booked Philadelphia. 
Philadelphia offered the stimulating example of a Club in the midst of a wholesome Renaissance. Tom Magee went over to Camden with me for my first talk, at Camden Catholic High, joining their spelling championship celebration. Also enjoyed a talk be­fore the boys of West Philadelphia Catholic High. Learned that a mis­understanding had the boys of Roman Catholic waiting for me at the same hour. Talked to Dr. Bums there later, expressing my regret and meet­ing the always cordial cooperation. 
 from Pane 202) 
The alumni meeting at the Penn A. 
C. showed Pres. Harry Francis and his able following to be determined to establish a Club that will press the larger Clubs in pace and scope. John Neeson was his consistent helpful self. Ed Bailey starred in meeting as the devil's advocate. The Degen brothers have the treasury and the prospective-student activities in safe and willing hands. The Club is con­tacting parents of present students to advantage in its program. 
Baltimore, without a Club, was more of a scouting expedition, but turned out most interestingly. Tom Carfagno, '23-'24, was officiating a hockey game, at which I joined him, the game not the ofliciating. Had a pleasant evening. The next morning Joe Holbach called and took me up to meet E. L. Holland, a law student 
April,-1^3i 207 
THE NoTKE DAME ALTJMNUS 
• ATHLETICS • 
=Sy JOSEPH PETRITZ= 

N. D. To Have National Catholic Track 
Catholic high school track athletes from coast to coast are expected to be the guests of the University at the first of a proposed series of annual Notre Dame Catholic interscholastic track and field meets to be held at Notre Dame Friday, June 1. 
Preliminary plans for the meet were announced recently by Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden and Track Coach John Nicholson. 
This is a significant move in track and Catholic educational circles in that the annual championship meet, and particularly the trip to the cam­pus, will be an inducement to Cath­olic boys who are also good track athletes to enter Catholic high schools rather than non-Catholic schools where track interest may be higher. It will indirectly influence these same boys to go on to Catholic institutions of higher learning. 
It is the duty of every Notre Dame alumnus, and particularly those who are returning for commencement June 2 and 3, to talk this meet up among the pastors and principals in his vicinity, and, we feel sure that many of you will return for com­mencement with one or more track teams in tow. 
Since the history-making 1934 meet comes the day before com­mencement exercises begin, the prep athletes will have an opportunity to get a real taste of Notre Dame life and to rub elbows with many of the famous Notre Dame football, basket­ball, track, and baseball stars of the past who will be returning for class reunions. 
The residence halls not occupied by graduating seniors or returning alum­ni will be thrown open to the visiting high school athletes. Meals will be served to them in the spacious Notre Dame dining halls. 
There will be a baseball game be­tween Notre Dame and the University of Wisconsin on Friday, and the an­nual Notre Dame commencement game with Michigan State will be played Saturday afternoon. Some of the teams may remain over to see Saturday's colorful ceremonies. The baccalaureate services and awarding of degrees will take place on Sunday, June 3. 
The meet is still in the formative stages, and it remains yet for Nichol­son to announce the program and to work out the many details in connec­tion with such a contest. The affair will probably be modeled somewhat after the Stagg interscholastic meet at Chicago which was discontinued recently. 
Among those expected to return early for commencement are such stars as Layden, himself, fullback with the Four Horsemen and now athletic director and head football coach; the other members of the Four Horsemen team—Harry Stuhldreher, Don Miller, Jimmy Crowley, Capt. Adam Walsh, Ed Hunsinger, Noble Kizer, Joe Bach, Eddie Collins, and Rip Miller; Slip Madigan of St. Mary's, Tom Lieb of Loyola, Al G. Feeney, state director of public safety; John W. Eggeman of Fort Wayne; Lou (Red) Salmon, mighty fullback of the early part of the cen­tury who is now in charge of con­struction of a Mississippi dam pro­ject. 
It is tentatively planned to run the following events: the 100 and 220­yard dashes, 440, 880, and mile runs, high and low hui-dles, broad jump, high jump, pole vault, shot put, dis­cus, javelin, and 880-yard relay: 
Catching: Up 

While anxiously awaiting the open­ing of one of the most ambitious spring sports cards ever lined up for the Notre Dame baseball, track, golf, and tennis teams, we take this oppor­tunity of catching up with the winter sports season, the activities of Direc­tor of Athletics Elmer Layden, and the changes made in the coaching ranks which concern Notre Dame men who were not included in our latest report. 
"The Zipper," as Layden is known in his Pittsburgh haunts, has zipped through a mass of work since report­ing here February 1. 
First, we shall consider changes in the coaching staiTs: Clarence (Jake) Kline, freshman football and baseball coach the past two years, has been retained as head frosh football men­tor, and he will handle the destinies of the varsity baseball team. He is faced with an 18-game schedule, in­cluding 14 games with seven Big Ten teams. 
Kline was a star third baseman in 1915, 1916, and 1917, captaining the team his senior year. He hit over .300 each year, and climaxed his col­lege career in 1917 by swooping three 
 Meet On June 1 
home runs against Michigan to lead his mates in an impressive victory. He passed up major league offers to serve overseas during the World war and he returned to play and manage several small professional and semi­professional teams. 
-Although this material is far below par this year, his knowledge of the game, his ability to get the best out of his men, and the great liking the players have for him will all help in what we hope will be a movement back to the old Notre Dame baseball winning traditions. The teams of the past two years, hounded by ineligi­bility, poor weather, injuries and countless other woes, each lost one more game than they won, to give the Irish their first two losing seasons in a quarter of a century. 
Kline, as you all know, succeeds George Keogan, basketball coach, who will continue in that capacity as only Keogan can. 
'Tom (Kitty) Gorman, co-captain and center on the 1933 football team, and his teammate, Steve Banas, full­back, will be two of Kline's assistants with the freshman gridders next fall. Both are pursuing their studies in the college of law. 
Tom Conley, all-around assistant to Layden, has been named freshman basketball coach to succeed Clay Johnson. The latter will enter the legal profession after receiving his degree in June. He led all mono­gram men in the class of 1932 with an average of well over 90. He is among the leaders in the law class. Conley, it may be mentioned, is not only in charge of the Notre Dame ends in football, but he has handled all the detail of drawing up the golf and tennis schedules which appear in this issue. He is also working out an after-Commencement trip for the golfers. 
Succeeding Kline as freshman base­ball coach is Prof. Stephen (better known as Steve) Ronay of the de­partment of English, a monogram winner in 1925, 1926, and 1927. 
E. R. Handy, instructor in the de­partment of physical education, will serve as freshman track coach, assist­ing Varsity Coach John P. Nicholson. 
Adding to our ever-growing list of Notre Dame men who are joining the football coaching ranks or advancing themselves in said ranks, we wish to list the following announcements: 
April, 193i

208 THE NoTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Capt. Tom Yarr of the 1931 foot­ball team, all-American center; and Mike Koken, star halfback of 1930, 1931, and 1932, have deserted the Chicago Cardinals professional team to take over the head and assistant coaching duties at John Carroll Uni­versity, Cleveland. Adam Walsh has signed as assistant coach at Harvard after being let out when Yale decided to go alumni with its staff. Charley Riley has joined Tom Lieb at Loyola of Los Angeles, having left New Mexico State. 
Ted Twomey has lined up his forces as assistant to Chet Wynne at the Umversity of KentuckJ^ Wynne, since our last issue, has been named athletic director of the Blue Grass school. Ray Brancheau, voted the most valuable member of the 1933 Notre Dame team, has not only de­cided to go the hard way—up the middle aisle—^but he has signed as director of athletics and physical education and head coach of football at New Mexico State. Ed (Moose) Krause, all-American basketball cen­ter, 1933-34 captain of basketball, and popular mythical choice at tackle in football, as well as a track star, has been named head football coach at St. Mary's college at Winona, Minn. The appointment of Laurie Vejar, diminuative 1932 quarterback, as assistant to Johnny O'Brien at St. Edward's University in Texas is mo­mentarily expected from the Rev. Hugh O'DonneU, C.S.C, president Rumor also has it that Columbia col­lege, Dubuque, la., will sign a Notre Dame man shortly. 
Now, then, before going into the prospects for the coming spring ath­letic season, we shall take a moment to review the events of the indoor track and basketball teams. 
TRACK 
The indoor season opened auspi­ciously with a 57 to 38 victory over Marquette during which Don Elser, sophomore all-around star, set a Notre Dame shot put record of 46 feet, 2 inches. 
Notre Dame lost to Illinois, 55 1/3 to 48 2/3 in the next meet, but George Meagher, another sophomore, set a Notre Dame and gymnasium record of 23 feet, 3 1/2 inches in the broad jump. 
Ohio State fell before the Irish by a score of 71 to 33, and Meagher added two inches to his gym and Notre Dame record with a leap of 23 feet, 5 1/2 inches. 
The absence of Francis (Mike) Layden, sophomore brother of Elmer, who won both hurdle races in fast time against Marquette, was felt in the Illinois meet, but even more so in the Central Intercollegiate conference meet. Michigan State won its first indoor championship with 32 1/2 points, while Notre Dame rose from fifth in 1933 to second in 1934 with 21 1/2 points. Vincjnt Murphy, holder of the Notre Dame high jump record, took Notre Dame's only first place in the C. I. C, but the other Irish were pecking away for seconds, thirds, and fourths throughout the affair. 
Murphy, incidentally, is using an entirely new style of jumping in order to favor a sore tendon. The week after the C. I. C. meet he jumped 6 feet, 5 inches at Madison Square Garden to tie for first place in the K. of C. games, much to the re­lief of Coach John Nicholson, who had his doubts about the experiment. 
The mile relay team took second in the K. of C. games, with Bowdren, McGrath, Rubly, and Bernard run­ning. The two-mile team also fin­ished second with Young, Ducasa, Shells, and Roberts carrying the ba­ton. Boston won the former and Manhattan the latter race. 
The same night, the rest of the team competed successfully in the Armour relays in Chicago. The shock troop two-mile team took fourth, Meagher won the broad jump with a performance of 23 feet, 3 1/2 inches; Gilfoil was fifth in the 440-yard dash, Farrell was fifth in the 880-yard run, and Edwards and Howard tied for fourth in the pole vault at 12 feet, 10 inches. 
The Butler relays at Indianapolis resulted in two outstanding Notre Dame performances. The four-mile relay team composed of King, Mc-Farlane, Roberts, and Young won in 18 minutes, 30.2 seconds. Murphy took second to Willis Ward of Mich­igan in the high jump, Ward wnning at 6 feet, 5 7/8 inches. 
Prospects for outdoors, although none too rosy, should stack up well with the fine indoor showing made by Nicholson's men. The return of Mike Layden will help. Nicholson has 12 men who can run the 880 in 2 min­utes flat or better outdoors, and nine who can run the quarter in 51 flat or better. Most of them are tall, and they had trouble with the sharp turns indoors. They will be heard from in the relay meets as well as the dual meets this spring. The Irish will also gain by the ability of Meagher and Art Conley in the broad jump, an event which is not run in many meets, and notably in the C. I. C. meet in­doors because many of the schools do not have indoor jumping pits. The Irish should score from five to eight points in the outdoor C. I. C. meet in this event. Notre Dame does not gain a great deal in the javelin and discus throws, but will get points in these strictly outdoor events in al­most any meet. 
BASKETBALL 
The latest ALUMNUS carried an account of the last games of the sea­son and pretty well wound up the season's statistics. We should like to mention here, however, that Capt. Ed (Moose) Krause, according to our advance information, will again place on the major,' if not all, the all-American teams at center. He also led the state in scoring with 197 points, having led last year with 214. His average per game was approxi­mately the same as that established by Norm Cottom of Purdue, who led the Big Ten scorers. 
For purposes of record we should like to report here Coach George Keogan's all-time record at Notre Dame which foots up as follows: 
1923-24—Won 15, Lost 8 
1924-25—Won 11, Lost 10 
1925-26—Won 19, Lost 1 
1926-27—Won 19, Lost 
1927-28—Won 18, Lost 
1928-29—Won 14, Lost 
1929-30—Won 15, Lost 
1930-31—Won 12, Lost 
1931-32—Won 18, Lost 
1932-33—Won 16, Lost 
1933-34—Won 20, Lost 
Totals— Won 176, Lost 54 
His all-time percentage of .765 represents a gain of eight percentage points over the total at the end of the 1932-33 season. He opened the past season with a record of 157 victories and 50 defeats and a percentage of .757. His present mark, we repeat, is well above that established by any major coach of a major team whose teams met major competition over the same period of years. 
Coming, finally, to spring sports, we call to the attention of those who have read this far that we have al­ready covered roughly the prospects for baseball and track. 
The golf team promises to stack up well with those of the past four years who won all but two dual meets and were undefeated each year except 1932. Capt. Vince Fehlig, ex-Capt. Johnny Montedonico, Johnny Banks, and Bill Veeneman of last year's team are all back, plus Herman Green, sophomore who won the Western Pennsylvania junior title last summer, and Winfield Day, hold­erof several Chicago district titles. 
Fehlig was quarter-finalist in- the National Collegiate meet. Banks tied for the medal in that meet. Day has won various University meets from his varsity mates, so all in all it looks like the Irish are set for another great season. 

April, 19Si THE NoTBE DAME ALUMNUS 
The tennis team will be built large­

''O'er Thy Prairies Verdant Growing" 
ly around Capt. John O'Hanlon, the 
only returning veteran, but several dark horse sophomores are reputed to be ready to take the field in an effort to raise the prestige of the Irish court teams. 
Following are the complete spring sports schedules: 
Track 

Apr. 21—^Kansas Relays at Lawrence. Apr. 27-28 — Drake relays at Des 
Moines. May 4—Ohio State at Columbus. May 12—^Michigan State here. May 19—Pittsburgh there. May 26—^Indiana State meet at Laf­
ayette. June 1—C. L C. meet at Milwaukee. June 15-16—^N.CA.A. meet at Los 
Angeles. 
Bateball 

.A.pr. 13—Ohio State here. Apr. 17—West. State Teachers here. Apr. 21—C3ucago at Chicago. Apr. 23—^Northwestern here. Apr. 27—^Purdue at Lafayette. Apr. 28—Purdue at Lafayette. May 2—Wisconsin at Madison. May 5—Ohio State at Columbus. May 9—Mich. State at E. Lansing. May 10—Western State Teachers at 
Kalamazoo. May 12—Indiana here. May 15—Northwestern at Evanston. May 18—^lowa here. May 19—Iowa here. May 22—Chicago here. May 24—^Purdue here. June 1—Wisconsin here. June 2—^Michigan State here. 
Golf Apr. 14—Detroit here. Apr. 28—^Purdue here. May 7—Chicago at Chicago. May 10—Wisconsin at Madison. May 12—^Northwestern here. May 19—^Illinois at Champaign. May 24—^Indiana here. May 25-26—Indiana State meet here. 
Tennis 

Apr. 20—^Northwestern here. Apr. 21—Western State Teachers at 
Kalamazoo. Apr. 27—^Armour Tech here. May 5—^Albion College here. May 11—Detroit here. May 12—^Mich. State at E. Lansing. Ifay 19—^Michigan State here. May 25—Chicago here. 
(Continued 

the downstate tournament and all the Senior boys were in a receptive mood for a talk about Notre Dame. I had a long and interesting session with them and a very pleasant conference with Father Cummins, principal of the school, a real Notre Dame booster. 
On the day of my first visit to Galesburg, I talked with a number of boys in Galesburg High School who are interested in Notre Dame, and had lunch with Prince Slaven who is a teacher in Galesburg High. 
DAVENPORT, ROCK 
ISLAND, MOLINE 

Realizing that the Tri-Cities had been too busy with the Layden ban­quet to think a great deal of making contacts with high schools, I didn't expect a great deal when I returned to this territory on Monday, March 5. I did, however, have a long talk with Dick Swift, '20, president of the Tri-Cities club and governor of District XVI of the Alumni Association in which we discussed many things. I also saw George Vander Vennet, '32, who is in Dick's law office and Ralph Coryn, '22. 
PERU AND LA SALLE (hvin cities, in case you don't know) 
My first stop in this territory was at St. Bede Academy, my old high school stamping grounds, where I found one of my classmates. Father Mark Rogan, O.S.B., as rector. He, with Father Herbert Schisler, O.S.B., director of studies, and the rest of the priests received me with the very finest of hospitality. I had lunch with the boys and immediately afterwards talked with the Seniors in a special session. All of them were much in­terested in Notre Dame and several of them will be at Notre Dame next year, including probably Walter Dun­can, Jr., the son of Walter Duncan, '12, of La Salle. 
In La Salle arrangements had very kindly been made for me at the La Salle-Peru Tow^nship High School and Junior College by T. C. Kohin, as­sistant principal, the father of Ray, '24, and the father-in-law of Ray­mond A. Hoyer, head of the Boy Guidance Department at the Univer­sity. Mr. Kohin introduced me and I talked with a group of boys inter­ested in Notre Dame. Mr. Kohin was more than generous in taking care of me. 
On this visit to La Salle I had a chance to talk, among the alumni, only with Walter Duncan. Also in the same city are Ed Clancy, '20, Jim Cahni, '14, Bill Clancy, '24, Jim Hurley, '24, and Paul Duncan, '31. 
 from Paije 204) 
JOLIET 
My last stop—and what a stop, if any!—was this thriving prison cen­ter. With the club officers, Joe Silk, '20, heavjrweight president, and Tom Feeley, '32, secretary, to steer me around under the magic influence of Ed King, '99, prominent drug store operator, the day was filled to over­flowing. There was just one school to visit, according to the local plans, and that was the Joliet Catholic High school, but individual calls on pros­pects, together with a flying trip to Wilmington, Illinois, 20 miles away, to talk with a couple of boys, kept the hours humming around. 
"Professor Dooley," as the local radio station had billed me for three days in advance, spent a very enjoy­able hour at the Joliet Catholic High School (later to win the National Catholic Basketball championship) with Father Matthew O'Neill, the very cordial principal, formerly of Mt. Carmel in Chicago, and a large group of fine boys. After our lunch together, Joe Silk, Tom Feeley, Ed King, and Doc Mayer accompanied me to the school and helped material­ly with the interviews. 
That evening there was a very en­joyable dinner of the Joliet club in the Woodward Hotel. Present were Leo Heringer, '24, Chuck Lennon, '30, Ed King, '99, Jim Martin, '23, Joe Adler, '24, Bob Baskerville, '31, Clarence Wilhelmi, '22, Bill Bossing-ham, '25, Tom Feeley, '32, Joe Silk, '20, Art Cline, '32, Francis J. Dunn, Notre Dame booster extraordinary and an honorary member of the club (father of Francis A. Dunn, '35) and James Scagnelli, a prospective stu­dent. It was a fine gathering of a fine club. 
FINIS 
And so the tour endeth—^to be fol­lowed soon by more, but none better. On any basis, the trip was a success. Considering my own inexperience on several scores, together with the in­experience in this work of most clubs and individual alumni where I vis­ited, it was a really remarkable suc­cess. 
May I extend here my hearty thanks to all those—and there were scores of them—who contributed in any way to my plans. Esjiecially to the dub ofiicers and to those who gave up their time and work to help me am I grateful. If in this sketchy account I have omitted any one or anything I ask forgiveness. The days were overloaded and names and things do slip away from memory. 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
BUFFALO The Notre Dame alumni of Buffalo honored the members of this year's senior class at a cabaret dance on Easter Monday in the Markeen hotel. Committees in charge -were as fol­lows: General chairman, Henry L. Burns, president of the Notre Dame club; tickets, Franklin J. O'Marah, chair­man, Martin Ryan, Francis Hanssel; music, Robert lleaser, chairman, Martin Travers, James L:\vin, William Hall; door, Jay L. Lee, chairman. Dr. Robert J. Bums, Robert Moore; ar­rangements, George Doyle, chairman, Paul HoefBer, E. J. Lutz, A. M. Boehm; publicity, Thomas Rogers, chairman, C. J. Irwin, John Bums, Joseph Shea, and John BjTTie. 
CINCINN.\TI I believe that Bill Castellini has written you giving you the result of the recent election, so henceforth I shall probably be signing my letters to you as president of the Notre Dame Club. I sincerely trust that since the reins have been turned over to me, I shall be able to justify the boys' con­fidence in placing me in charge of the Club for the coming year. I have news of some of the alumni that may interest some of the men of their classes who may be in different cities. I am very happy to announce that Frank Sweeney, Class of '18, is moving to Cincinnati with his wife and two children as the new manager of the Kemper Lane Hotel. We are very happy to welcome Frank to Cin­cinnati, and the boys of the alumni will be glad to call and make his 
acquaintance as soon as he arrives, which 1 understand ^vill be on April 1. Harry Crumley of the Crumley, Jones & Crumley Construction Com­pany is handling quite a nice job for the city, laying sewers in Fembank. He is ilso doing a nice project at Mt. 
Airy Forest. 
We were very happy the other evening to have at our annual elec­tion dinner Brother Benjamin, who is canvassing Cincinnati for the Ave 
Maria magazine. 
Bill Castellini is handling the pub­licity for the Community Chest drive which opens in Cincinnati on April 7. 
Have a little information about George Aug, who is announcing his engagement to Miss Peggy Henry. Notre Dame men are falling fast in Cincinnati. 
Leo Dubois, Joe Morrissey and my­self attended the week-end Retreat which was held at Crusade Castle from Friday, March 23, to Sunday, March 25. We are very hopeful that 
next year we shall be able to make 
this a complete Notre Dame group. 
-Andy Barton is very busy these 
days selling Kellogg products. As you 
know, Andy has to make hay while 
the sun shines as he is expecting in 
the early summer to try the old plan 
of "two living cheaper than one." 
Our good friend, Bob Kuerze, 
made good his promise to send a keg 
of his famous Hudepohl brand to the 
annual meeting, which topped off a 
very fine evening. 
We are planning to have a very 
iine social meeting for Universal 
Notre Dame Night, Monday, April 16, 
the results of which I shall give you 
in my next letter. 
Hogan Morrissey. 
JOLIET Fifteen members of the Notre Dame Club stormed the home of CLARENCE WILHELMI, '18, 909 Oneida street, March 16th, the occa­sion being his birthday. The host and his wife left nothing undone to make it a St. Patrick's party long to be remembered. Everything was done in green and shamrocks. ED KING had to make several touches to finish the evening and at the end had no chips to turn for cash. The only bank in town was visited early Saturday morning by CLAR­ENCE WILHELMI, the host, and it looks like the depression is over for him. The party broke up early Sat­urday a. m. and most of the Club 
just grabbed their hats and hurried to make the six o'clock Mission Mass. CHARLES LENNON, '30, and his two sisters, Rosemary and Agnes, drove over to Hammond to attend the wake of Dr. Chevigny, father of Jack, '31. The Notre Dame Qub of Joliet wishes to express their deepest 
sympathy to Jack and his family. 
Our club is planning one of our best Universal Notre Dame Night progi-ams. In past years, no matter how inactive our club has been, we always have had a nice party. This year we are going to put out a pro­gram over the air—^so comes the or­der from our genial president, JOE SILK, and we always respect Joe's 
wishes (his size commands it). DR. EDWARD J. MAYER, '27, prominent young physician and sur­geon of Joliet, has the club in a quan­dary. He has been very successful in surgical operations and we are at a loss to understand why he butchers so many poker hands. WARD LOEFFLER of Joliet, Bli­nois, was unanimously elected an 
honorary member of the Notre Dame 
Club of Joliet. 
Ward drives his own plane, is man­
ager of one of the largest coal and 
lumber firms in this vicinity, is very 
active in civic, church and club 
affairs, and had a hand in making up 
the coal and lumber dealers' code. 
We have seen him turn down coal 
men meetings to attend our club do­
ings and since his election has batted 
one thousand for attendance. He has 
always been an ardent fan of Notre 
Dame. 
While Ward has been successful in 
the tilings that he has undertaken so 
far, he has very often expressed one 
regret—he did not graduate from 
Notre Dame. 
The Joliet Club is proud to call 
Ward Loeffler a member. 
Joliet got two big breaks during forty-eight hours: first. Catholic High of Joliet won the National Catholic basketball title for the third time, which is also a record; second, Joliet natives heard as fine a talk on ath­letics as was ever uttered across a banquet table by none other than the great basketball coach, George Keo­gan of Notre Dame. The occasion was the father and son banquet of the Joliet Rotary Club at which the city's basketball teams and their coaches were the honored guests. 
George has been voted a place vrith the many champions which Joliet now holds. We knew that he was a champion at turning out great bas­ketball teams, but he also proved be­yond doubt that he is just as much at home at a banquet table as he is on the basketball fioor. 
At the finish of his talk, it would have been the envy of Notre Dame's greatest football squads to have seen the way the men crashed tables, chairs, et cetera to grab George's hand in congratulations. 
It was the writer's privilege to overhear our Superintendent of Jo­liet Township High School, Mr. Hag­gard, say to George—"Mr. Keogan, your talk was great and in all my ca­reer I have never heard a man who could come to the point so quickly." 
In summing up Mr. Keogan's qual­ifications let it suffice to say that he is a champion and Joliet was more than pleased with his visit. 
Before the basketball banquet, George Keogan, who was the main speaker of the evening, was ap­proached by a bos'- of twelve who said: 
"Mr. Keogan, can I ask you a question?" And George in his pleasant way said—"Why sure, sonny, what is it?" 

April, IBSi THE NoTEE DAME ALUMNUS 211 To which the young man said: 
SUMMER SCHOOL-FAQS AND SUGGESTIONS 
"Mr. Keogan, why can't you beat 

Pittsburgh?" The gi-eat mentor, who 
has no troubles in iiguring out bas­
ketball plays, was out on a limb and 
his reply was: 
"Sonny, if you can tell me I'll be your pal." Francis J. Dunn. 
WOMEN'S CLUB At the annual meeting of the Women's Club of the Alumni Asso­ciation in July, 1933, the resolution was accepted that a general Holy Communion be offered by all the members of the Club on the feast of the Finding of the Holy Cross, May 3, 1934, for the welfare of Notre Dame, her faculty, her students, her alumni. This resolution is called to the attention of the members of the Club through the pages of the JVLUMNUS, since individual notices are not possible. Prayers for the complete recovery of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell are earnestly petitioned from the Sisters and other alumnae of the University, 
The annual business meeting will be held in early July this year; the social meeting, later in the summer. In accordance with action taken at the 1933 meeting, the nominating committee will present its slate at the meeting and the election will then take place. Thus the expense and la­bor of the printed ballot, which has fallen upon the secretary of the Alumni Association, will be elim­inated. 
The chairmen of the special com­mittees called for at the 1933 meet­ing are: Sister M. Benedictus, C.S.C., Committee on Reception and Activity for the Summer School; Sister M. Eleanore, C.S.C, Notre Dame litera­ture; Sister M. Eleanore, C.S.C, Committee on Resolutions. 
The Nominating Committee con­sists of Sister Francis Paula, C.S.C, Sister Lucy Marie, O.P., and Sister Monica, O.P. 
The members of the Social Com­mittee are Sister M. Flavia, O.S.B., Sister M. Frances, S.S.J., and Sister 
M. Leonella, O.P. 
CARNEY GIFT 

An original document of St. Charles Borromeo, patron of the Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame, has been given to the University by Matthew 
J. Carney of New York City, a mem­ber of the board of lay trustees of the University. 
The translation of the manuscript, accomplished by members of the De­partment of Classics after some ef­fort because of the quaint legal phraseology, the abbreviations, and the obscurity of certain parts of the document, has been completed. 
"The sixteenth summer session of the University of Notre Dame will open on Tuesday, the 19th of June, 1934, and will continue for six weeks, to Wednesday, the 1st of August. Graduate and undergraduate courses are offered by all departments in Arts and Letters and by all departments in Science, except that of Pharmacy. A few courses will be offered by the College of Law, the College of Engi­neering, and the College of Com­merce, of general interest to the stu­dents in Arts and Letters and in Sci­ence, who may take any of these coui-ses as elective for credit toward the degree of bachelor of arts or bachelor of science." Frovi the 7ieic Snmmer Session Bulletin. 
Those are the facts. Heaven forbid that I become iden­tified with the theorists in adult edu­cation, etc. But— For those alumni whose work, or lack of it, permits them a six weeks' release in the summer, it seems to me Summer School at Notre Dame offers several major considerations. 
1.
 If you iire WTiting, if you are teaching, in fact generally, in this era, an advanced degree is very help­ful if not necessary. Summer school offers you this opportunity. 

2.
 Notre Dame men, above most others, know the broad field of edu­cation, the significance of a univer­sity in its real sense. When you were here you had to miss many courses fi-om excellent and famous teachers 


that time did not permit you to take. Other courses, the perspective of years has shown, lost their cultural merits for you through the Daimo­clean sword of passing grades and credits. You'd like to take them over again free from this strain. Person­alities whom yon met and admired on the campus, but couldn't schedule in class, have intrigued you. 
Summer School offers you an op­portunity for this highest type of ed­ucation and culture. 
3.
 Six weeks on the campus should be a major attraction. Lake to swim in. Tennis courts, gym, the park­like campus. Excellent meals in the Dining Halls' or the cafeteria. Com­panionship of the highest type of men, lay and religious, and the added presence of several hundred nuns— the whole atmosphere one of pleasant culture. No vacation could offer a more attractive picture. 

4.
 The cost is low. Tuition is thirty dollars for the summer. Board and room are twelve dollars a week. A library fee of two dollars is the only general fee. 


I'm not preaching education or morality to you, but if circumstances had taken me away from the campus, it seems to me I'd like to have an op­portunity like this, and I've gone into these details with that thought. 
A summer school bulletin, with a complete description of courses, may be had upon application to Robert B. Riordan, '24, Registrar of the Uni­versity. 
FORM N. D. CLUB IN SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
The alumni dinner arranged in Springfield, Illinois on February 26, on the occasion of the Assistant Alumni Secretary's visit, provided the opportunity to begin the organization of the Notre Dame Club- of Spring­field. Frank "Bud" Zimmerman, '26, was chosen temporary chairman at that time and Bob Graham, '26, tem­porary secretary. 
Another dinner-meeting was held in the K. of C Club Grill on March 12 at which a constitution was adopte d and permanent officers elected. William B. Irvine, a prep school graduate in 1902, was named honorary president; Bud Zimmerman, president; Eugene R. Schwartz, '27, vice-president; and Boh Graham, secretary-treasurer. A social com­mittee composed of Paul Dixon, ex. '17, chairman; John Carroll, '28, Mike Kinney, '31, Roscoe Bonjean, ex. '29, and John Troy, ex. '29, was selected and is making plans for Uni­versal Notre Dame Night on April 16. 
The club eventually hopes to in­clude Notre Dame men residing in the territory bounded by Decatur, 
Pana, Carlinville, Jacksonville, and Beardstown. Present at the first dinner on Feb­ruary 26 were: 
Claire Hafel, '25, Bud Zimmerman, '26, Bob Graham, '26, Gene Schwartz, '27, Paul Dixon, ex. '17, Mike Kin­ney, '31, Paul McConnell, '32, Bar­ney McGlone, '31, Joe Churchman, '33, Joe McCarthy, '26, Oliver Fulds, '31, Point Downing, '14, Chuck Corcoran, '17, Dutch KeUy, '17, Zeke Worthington, '27, Joe Galabowski, '31, Butch Whipple, '17, Roscoe Bon­jean, ex. '29, John Carroll, '28, George Zimmerman, '32, Ralph Zim­merman, '29, Harry Argus, ex. '32, Bernard Walsh, '29, John Troy, ex. '29, Bill Irvine,, '02, (prep); James 
B. Quinn, '97, and Joseph R. Fitz­gerald, ex. '29. Friends of the University present included: 
Dr. McShane, father of J. L. Mc-Shane, '28, Earl Reavy, coach of the Cathedral High School basketball team, Ronald Gibbs, Dr. McCarthy, David McCarthy, Bill Heishfield, Ed Gannon, and Jim O'Connor. 

BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. BART C. FAVEEO, '27, announce the birth of a son, Thomas Edmon, on February 2nd. 
Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST J. WIL­HELM, '27, are the parents of a daughter, Joanne Agatha, bom Feb­ruary 26th. 
A card from JOSEPH O'DON­NELL, '27, gives us the belated an­nouncement of the arrival of Joseph 
F. O'Donnell, Jr., on October 13th, 1933. 
Joe also told us of the arrival of a son to Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. CORBETT, '27, on March 7th. 

DEATHS 

3Ir. ADRIAN E. LYNCH, a stu­
dent in 1915 and 1916, was killed in 
an automobile accident near Daven­
port, Iowa. Mr. Lynch, whose home 
was in Cedar Rapids, was employed 
by the Certain-Teed Products Corp., 
of Cedar Rapids, and was formerly a .player in major league baseball. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to: LEO SCHLA.VONE, '32, upon the death of his uncle; to Judge KICKHAM SCANLON, '88, upon the death of his wife; to FRANK KEL­LEY, '28, upon the death of his mother; to FRANK 2SIULTY, '32, up­on the death of his father; to JOHN ROBERT LONG, ex. '18, upon the death of his father; to ROBERT DORAN, '26, upon the death of his uncle; to JAMES GEREND, '33, up­on the death of his grandmother; to RAY FITZGERALD, ex. '25, upon the death of his father; to JACK CHEVIGNY, '31, upon the death of his father, and to TIMOTHY GAL­VIN, '16, upon the death of his father-in-law. Dr. Julius J. Chevigny. 
Albert V. King, '14, assistant sec­retary of the Northern Trust Com­pany in Chicago and football player at Notre Dame while Eockne was playing; died suddenly while eating in the lunchroom of the bank on March 29. His death is believed to have been caused by heart disease. Mrs. King and six children survive. The King home is at 641 South Ly­man Avenue, Oak Park, a Chicago suburb. 
Victor J. Dowling; LL.D. '17, of New York, eminent jurist and one of tie outstanding Catholic laymen 
=THE ALUMNI: 
of the United States, died recently, after having been stricken with a ce­rebral hemorrhage while working in the office of the Interborough Rapid Transit Company, of which he was co-
Mr. Dowling, 67 years old and for­mer presiding justice of the Apel­late Division of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, was hon­ored by two Popes. Pope Benedict XV created him a Knight of the Or­der of St. Gregory the Great in 1916, and His Holiness Pope Pius XI made him a Papal Chamberlain of the Cape and Sword in 1927. He was made a Commander of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre by the Latin Patri­arch of Jerusalem in 1908, and the government of a number of dif­ferent countries bestowed high hon­ors upon him. 

BAARRIAGES 
Dr. and Mrs. Toros SarMsian, Den­ver, Colorado, announce the marriage of their daughter, Justine, to Dr. RENE ALVEREZ RODRIGUEZ, '18, which will take place on April 14th at St. Martin's -Chapel, St. John's Cathedral, Denver, Colorado. 
Miss Hildagarde Olson, Battle Creek, Michigan, and RAY BRAN­CHEAU, '34, were married on April 2nd. 


PERSONALS 
1897 
Word comes that Defense Attor­ney Paul J. Ragan, Maumee, Ohio, was able in the recent widely-publi­cized Sailor Baldwin murder case to get for his client a life sentence and a recommendation for leniency. All of which means something when you consider that there were three eye witnesses to the crime and that the state was demanding the death pen­alty. 
1911 
Fred Steers of Chicago, checked in at the Alumni Office on March 10, just prior to' the C.I.C. track meet which he had come down to attend. 
1912 
Paul A. Rothwell, Buffalo, Wyo­ming, was a welcome though very hasty visitor to the Alumni Office on 
Holy Thursday, March 29. Walking into the editorial quarters (also the business and factory quarters) with a cab driver in tow, he was looking for some one who would admit him to the stadium "just to look around." Paul had driven through—not in the cab—from Wyoming, he said, to pick up his daughter who is a student at St, Mary's. He was much interested in the recent additions and changes on the campus. 
1920 
Francis J. Clohessy, Waverly, New York, has been named president of the- Tioga County Bar Association, according to a recent newspaper an­nouncement. He had just completed a year in the vice-presidency of the same group. 
Prank has been practicing law in Waverly for the last 14 years, ever since he left Notre Dame. He has been village attorney for the last nine years. 
1922 
Our old friend, Will Henry Has­kins, is still amusing himself by throwing ticker tape at the honored guests of New York City as they pass on parade below his office window. 
It is not too early to start the "ball rolling" for Commencement this June which calls for a reunion of '22 men, according to the workings of the Drx reunion plan. The last time we met was in 1928 and in the intervening period we have been beset by the de­pression which shattered whatever plans and intention that we may have had for visiting Notre Dame. Now the depression is over, let us have one grand conclave in June. 
If you can make the grade, let us hear from you so we can have a list of names ready for the May ALUM­NUS of those who will attend. Don't forget! The longer you postpone your visit, the harder it is to come back, and Notre Dame is too good a friend to lose. Then, too, it may be your last chance to see some of the old boys. Even Chuck Hirschbuhl and Chuck Foley in far off Oregon are getting the fever. We hope it's catch­ing. 
We are proud of the accomplish­ments of '22 medical men. Doctors Don Sexton of St. Louis, John Mo­hardt and Tom O'Keefe of Chicago. 
Matt McEniry is a Denver radio broadcaster. Kid Ashe. 

April, 19Si 213 
THE NOTKB DAME ALUMNUS 
1923 

Dan Nolan has recently succeeded another Notre Dame man, Harold Bowlus, in a teaching position at St. Vincent's College, Latrobe, Pennsyl­vania. Dan has had teaching experi­ence at Mt. Angel College, at Creigh­ton and at Notre Dame. 
1924 

A streamer headline, "Glascott Out For Mayor," in the Michigan City Dispatch of March 10 made known the fact that Bob, '24, now city judge, aspires to the chief executive's job in his home ten-itoiy. He is a Republi­can candidate in the forthcoming pri­maries. Says the Dispatch about Bob: "Judge Glascott is the son of Mr. and Mrs. M. J. Glascott and has pi-acticed law in Michigan City since his gi-adu­ation from the University of Notre Dame in 1924. He has lived here his entire life and first sought public office in 1929 when he was chosen city judge. He is a member of the Elks, Eagles and Rotaiy club and is mar­ried and has a family." 
1926 

According to Prince Slaven, '27, (see '27 notes) George Dolmage is studying medicine at the University of Iowa. George and Prince spend a good deal of time together in Iowa City. 
1927 

Dick Halpin, as smiling and affable as ever, was a campus visitor on March 20. He had come down from Chicago for a day. 
Prince Slaven, with whom the As­sistant Secretary had lunch when he was in Galesburg, Illinois, on the re­cent Illinois tour, reported that he frequently sees Rev. Harry Ryan who is stationed as assistant pastor at St. Patrick's Church, Iowa City, Iowa. Prince himself, a teacher in the Galesburg High School, drives over to Iowa City every other week­end to take special courses in the University of Iowa in preparation for his master's degree. 
1928 

John Igoe comes to the fore as chairman of the employee represen­tatives in the Employees Representa­tive Council of the Lorain Works, National Tube Company, Lorain, Ohio. John organized and is the first editor of National Netvs, an employe publication recently authorized by his plant. The old Igoe activity and ability are still operating judging from the frequency and merit of his suggestions for improving employee working conditions. Congratulations and best \rishes to the fellow editor. 
James F. Kenny, Waterburj-, Conn., one of the youngest postal in­spectors in the United States service, has been assigned to headquarters at Reno, Nevada, where he will have charge of fifteen counties in Nevada and two in California. He went thi-ough a period of training in San Pi-ancisco before assuming his new 
- duties. 
Jim McShane, as scholastic at St. Louis University, is studying for the Jesuit priesthood, according to word given by his father Doctor McShane, of Springfield, Illinois, on the occa­sion of the Assistant SecretaiT's re­cent ^•isit to the Illinois capitol. 
1929 

The Catalyzer, N. D. campus chem­istiy publication, reports that Harold Bowlus who has been teaching in St. Vincent's College, Latrobe, Pennsyl­vania, recently resigned to accept a position with the DuPont organiza­tion in its Jackson labox-atories at Penn's Grove, N. J. 
1932 

Ray Geiger, '32, is all over North­ern Jei-sey and New York City col­lecting accounts for his father. Sol Bontempo breaks into print occasion­ally as city inspector of stores in Newark. Walt Kiolbasa, '32, wTites that he is at De Paul and in a law­yer's office in his spare time. Pete Quinn, ex-'32, has taken over the em­balming and insurance business of his father in Bloomfield. Pete and his brother Ned, still a student, re­cently lost their father. 
I hear that Myles Mullen, '32, opened a beer tavern in Brooklyn, eridently forsaking the law at St. John's. I have not verified this. The last I heard of Tony Conti, '32, he was at Columbia last spring. I have heard that Charles Kroncke, '32, is teaching at or near his home in Bayonne. Yours truly is handling claims for the Fidelity & Casualty Co. in the Bronx and elsewhere. 
The following alumni hold down seats in the Caldwell-Joumal Square Bus daily: Dick Purcell, who is with an insurance agency in Jersey City, Jack O'Keefe who is with the Con­solidated Gas and Ellis "Speedy" O'Keefe, '33, who is with Kopper's Coke out in the middle of the Newark Meadows, miles from civilization. 
Down on John street you can regu­larly bump into Henry Frey, '30 who is in a law office, Bemie Conroy who is -vrith the Home Insurance Co., and Jim Rizer, with an insurance agency. 
J. Don Sullivan. 
1933 

Ray Naber, who was with the Standard Oil Company in South Bend, has retui-ned to the home dig­gings in Louisville and is working for the Kentucky Ice Cream Com­pany. 
A letter from Gerald Daily, '21, Muskogee, Oklahoma, to Norb Skel­ley, '25, Tulsa, recently found its way to the Alumni Office. It divulged the news that Gerald Fitzgerald, '33, is stationed in Okmulgee, Oklahoma, and that Ed Leroux, '33, has recent­ly moved from Muskogee to Tulsa. Ed's father is president of the Okla­homa Pipe Line Company. 
Theatre Revives Melodrama 
The University Theatre, with Prof. Frank Kelly directing, is this month reviving one of its great hits of recent years, the melodrama, "Gold In the Hills." 
On April 19, in the Palace Theatre, South Bend, the University Theatre will present the play under the aus­pices of the South Bend Junior Cham­ber of Commerce for the charitable enterprises of that civic organization, principal of which is the school milk fund for the South Bend school city. 
Prices for the charity performances are seventy-five cents, fifty cents and thirty-five cents. 
Norman Hartzer, '29, is president of the Junior Chamber. Charles Weiss, '32, and Edward Crockett, '32, are active in the promotion of the show. 

Hoyer Speaks in Indianopolis 
Ray Hoyer, A.M. '24, head of the Department of Boy Guidance at the University, spoke at a father and son banquet on last Washington's Birth­day sponsored by the Mens' Club of the Little Flower parish, Indianapolis. More than 500 men and boys at­tended with such celebrities as Chuck Klein, Umpire Harry Geisel, Don­nie Bush, Mike Kelly, Red Corriden, Stanley Fiezle, Mayor Sullivan, to mention only a few, draped around for the edification of the boys. The toastmaster was Frank McCarthy, ex. '25, while Brother William, C.S.C, principal of the Cathedral High School, also said a few words. 

Cummins Is Chosen 

Somewhat belated apparently in reaching the Alumni Office bat none the less pleasing on that account is the announcement that Robert B. Cummins, '27, of Mandan, North Dakota, has been appointed director of the National Emergency Council for the state of North Dakota. In this capacity, he works like John E. Cassidy, '17, who holds the same po­sition in Illinois, under the direction of Frank E. Walker, '09, executive secretary of the National Emergency Council. 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLDB OF AKRON—Jo­seph H. Kraker. 29. 1776-24th SL, Cay­ahosa Falls, Ohio. President; Qaude H. Horjiins. '29, 133 N. HieWand Are.. Akron. Ohio. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP ARIZONA— James D. Barry. '97. Consolidated Bank Bids:.. Tucson. President: SUrve Rebeil, 
•25. 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassncr, '14. Hope. President; Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock. Secretary-
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C.. '02, Dac­ca. President; Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C.. Dacca, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Joseph C. Sullivan. 53 State St., Boston, Mass.. President: Robert J. Heam. 43 Chester Road. Belmont. Mass., Secretars'­
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF BUFFALO— Hcnrv L. Bums. '29. 191 Euclid Ave.. President; Franklin O'Marah. '30. 1165 Delaware Ave.. Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUMET DISTRICT —C . Patrick Maloney, '16, 219 Pettihone Ave.. Crown Point. Ind., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPI­TAL DISTRICT—Thomas Dollard. '21. 200 9th St., Troy, New York, Prraident: John Vincent Smith, '29, 252 First St, Albany, New York, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— James F. McNichol.is. '2r,. TfiOS Phillips Ave.. ChicaKo. President: NciJ C. Hurle.v. Jr.. '32. 91-1 -Vshhmd Ave. River Forest. III.. Secretar>-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP CINCINNATI —Robert Huehes. '29. 3565 Burch Ave., President: W. D. Morrissey, '26, Cath­olic Charities Bureau. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —Matthew Trudelle, '17, 1023 Scofield Bide.. President: J. Patrick Canny, '28. CO. Erie Railroad Le ^ Dept., Medical Arts Bids:.. Secretao'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY — William J. Graafield, "13, State Bide., 1200 Main Street. Springfield. Mass.. President: James A. Curry, '14, 647 Main St.. Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift. '24, 422 In­terurhan Bids., Dallas, President. Fran­cis A. McCulloush, '30. 917 First Nat­ional Bank Bldg., Dallas, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON— Robert Ohmer, 'OS, 36 Spirea Drive, President: Andrew A. Aman, Jr., *SOt 210 Lexinsrton Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— 
O. L. Hoash. '27, 1575 Race St., Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —James C. Shaw. '22, 307 Equitable Bide. President: P. M. Wonderlin. '29. 302 Hubbell BIdg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETKOIT— John T. HisBins, '24. 1632 Buhl Bide.. President; Paul J. Dooley, '25, 6202 Hamilton Ave;, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—James D. Hayes. '17. 511S Eichth SL. N. W., Washineton, Presi­dent; Harry M. Ambrose. '25. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJtE CLUB OF ERIE. PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17. Erie DailyTimes, President: Thomas Barber, '24. 416 Newman St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FAIRFIELD COUNTY—James Murphy. '22. 611 Sec­urity Bide.. Brideeport. Conn.. Presi­dent; Joseph E. Russo. '32. 166 Houeh Ave., Bridseport. Conn.. Secretary. 
. NOTRE DAME CLUB OK FORT W.\YNE —Roburt EKKcman. 'SO. Old First Bank BMir.. Piesident. 
NOTRE DA5IE CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. *24. City Eneineers* Office, City Hall. Green Bay. Wis., Pres­ident; Levi A. Gcniesse. '24. 5X0 Mina­han Bide.. Green Bay, Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. IHCH—Georee E. Ludwie, '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W. President: Ray­mond J. Bonini, '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., S.E.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St., President: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bide.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLtJB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich.. President; Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace Ave, Marinette, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter, '14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston. Te:tas. President: T. F. Green, Jr., '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIAN­APOUS —Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Meridian. President; John T. Rocap, '30. 129 E. Market St. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET-Jo­seph Silk. '20. 820 Ohio St.. President: Thomas Feeley, '32. 310 Buell Ave.. Sec­relar>'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ICANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley. '23. 25 Wint Ave., Ft. Leavenworth. ICansas. President; John 
M. Duean. '27, 4427 Tracy St, Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert '30. U. of Kansas. Wich­ita, President: Dan Welchons. '30. 306 
E. 13th St. Hutchinson. ICansas, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCICY— Wm. A. Reisert. Jr.. '30. Reisert Ins. Aeencj-, 352 Stnrks Bide., Louisville, Ky., President; Herman J. Ohlieschlae­er. '29. Broadway at 30th St, Nat'l. Concrete Construction Co.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ICANE COUN­TY—William B. Chaweo. '31, 404 S, La-Salle St.. Aurora. 111.. Secretary*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAPORTE. INDIANA—A. Gordon Taylor. '18, 1507 Indiana Ave., Laporte. President: Nor­man Duke, '33, 304 Niles St, Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS AN­GELES—Judee A. A. Scott. '22. 2205­8th Ave., President; Edward P. Cun­nineham, '30, 1031 S. Grand Ave., Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St. New Orleans. President; Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr.. '28, Whitney-Central Bide., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA— Jacobo Zobel, '23, Manila, P X President; 
A. F. Gonzales, '25, Insular Life Bide., 2nd PI., Manila, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJtE CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hueh Maeevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave., President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —P. Dudley Pearson. '19. 2037 N. Lake Drive. President: Victor G. Woeate. '29, 1819 E. Kenwood Bide.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Earl W. Brown. '93. 320 Power St. Helena. President: James B. O'Flynn. '11, Great Falls. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF NASHVILLE— Robert P. Williams, Jr,. '29, 106 Galla­tin Road, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASICA— Gerald J. Barrett. '22. 315 S. 37th St. Omaha. Sccretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JER­SEY—Robert Phelan, '22, 481 William St, East Oranee. N. J., President; Joseph Nulty, '27. 945 Madison Ave.. Elizabeth. N. J.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CITY OF NEW YORK—WiUiam A. Walsh. '97, 16-18 S. Broadway. Yonkers. New York. President; J. Norbert Gelson. Jr., '26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y.. Sec­retary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA — Royal H. Bosshard. '17, 315 Monteomery St, San Francisco, President; Robert B. Hill. '23. 6033 Proctor Ave., Oakland, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON— Nat McDousall. !00, 652 Sherlock Bide., Portland. President: Thomas D. McMa­hon, '27, Yeon Bide., Portland. Scjcretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CEINTRAL OHIO — Raymond J. Eichenlaub. '15, Hosier Realty Bide., Columbus, President 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA —^Thomas F. Shea. o. s.. '09, 902 Ex­chanee Natl. Bank. Tulsa. Preddent: Leo A. Schumacher, '13, Kine Wood Oil Co., Okmuleee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA — Harry Francis. Jr.. '30. IS Sprine Ave.. Ardmore. Pa.. President; Thomas J. Maeee. '32, 5801 Chew St, Philadelphia. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —Albert F. Gury, '28, 704 W. Wiloox Ave.. President: Joseph Laneton, '28, 207 Hillyer Place, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER Ward Schlotzer, '17. 136 Lennox St . President: Richard Sullivan, '32, 233 Elicott St , Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Raymond C. Marelli. '27, 1418 Eiehth St, Rockford. 111., Presi­dent; Francis W. Howhind, '25, 902 N. Main St , Rockford, III.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF RHODE ISLAND—Charles A. Grimes, '20, Para­mount Bide-, Providence, President; Cy­ril A. Costello, '29, 44 Hu.xley Ave., Providence, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Paul M. Butler, '27, 802 LO.O.F. Bide., South Bend. Ir.d.. President; Norman J. Hartzer. '29. 843 Forest Ave.. South Bend. Ind., Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SPRING­FIELD. ILLINOIS—Frank Zimmerman. 
•26. 931 N. Rutlidee Ave.. President: Robert Graham. '2.i6. 1537 S. Douelas Ave., Secretarj'. 
Local Alumni Clubs 
(Contlnned) 
NOTKE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Dr. Thomas R. Kennedy, '14, 4200 Flad Ave., St. Louis. President: Joseph Snitzer, 32, 323 N, Broadway, St. Louis, Secretary. 
NOTEE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITr— Vincent F. Harrinston. '25, Continental Morteage Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—Vincent Brown. '23, 1418 James St., Syraciise, President: Vincent Goulet, '26, 123 Green St., Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SAN AN­TONIO—Harold Tynan, '27. 240 B. Hui­sacke Ave., President; Kirwin J. Wil­liams. '28, 319 W. Graraercy, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt. '11. 260 Melmore St., President: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
NOTEE DAJIB CLUB OF TOLEDO— Fred A. Spreneer. '30, 3129 Kimball Ave., President: Joseph L. Wetli, '31, 717 Starr Ave., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF TRI-CITIES— Richard B. Swift, '20, Kahl BMi;.. Dav­enport. Iowa. President: Arthur L. Him­bert, '32, .'.27 39th St.. Rock Island. 111.. 
• Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CITIES—Joseph Carey. '32, 20 Roose­velt Ave., Endicott, N, Y., President: Joseph Hennessy, '30, 22 Fourth St., Johnson City, N. Y., Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTEE D.-\ME CLUB— Eugene A. O'Brien, '28, President: Rod­erick Sullivan, '24, 15 S. Fifth St., Min­neapolis, Minn., Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R, Brady. '24, 206 Kearns Bldg., Salt Lake City, President; Cyril Har­bccke, '19, S4 F. St., Salt Lake City, Sec. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kiier, '25, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind., President: Peter Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyrc, '28, Bethlehem, Pa„ President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTICA, NEW YORK—Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples' Gas & Electric Bids-, President: Joseph 
W. Fullem. '31, 1621 Neilson St., Sec­retary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA —John B. Rcardon, 
•22, 16 Union Bank Bldg.. Pittsburgh. President: Joseph Bach, '25, Duquesne University Athletic Dept., Pittsburgh, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon. '02. 4th & Pike St. Bldg.. Rm. 813. Se­attle. Wash., President: E. Morris Star­rett. '21, SOI Washington St.. Port Townsend. Wash.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF WATEUBURY —John Robinson. '23. 32 Farmington Ave., President: James M. Monaghan, '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING, 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co., Wheeling, Presi­dent: George Sargus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellaire, Ohio, Secretary. 

THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTEE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Akna. O. P., Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson, Newburgh, New York, President; Miss Rose Stcf­faniak, 161 Walnut St., Coldwater, Mich. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS­TO\VN—John Moran. '29. 1348 Quinn. President: Charles Cushwa. '31. 2227 Cordova Ave., Secretary. 
LIST OF CLASS SECRETARIES 
Year Name Address 
Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher Fitchburg, Mass. ISSO—So Prof. Robert M. Anderson Circleville, Ohio 1886 Michael O. Bums 338 S. Second St., Hamilton. Ohio 1SS7 Hon, Warren A. Cartier P.O. Box 606, Fort Meyers, Florida 1SS8 John L. Heincman Connersville, Indiana 18S9 P. E. Burke 301 Camp St, New Orleans, La. 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 7 University Ave., Minneapolis. Minnesota 1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell The New York Times, New York City 1893 Eustace Cullinan, Sr. 860 Fhelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif, 1896 William P. Bums 327 Willard Ave., Michigan City, Indiana 1897 Rev. John A. MacNamara P. O. Box 64. Bel Air, Maryland 1S9S Wm. C, Kegler 9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati. Ohio 1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 418 JefTcrson Bldg., Peoria. Illinois 1900 John W, Eggeman Old First Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 1001 Joseph J, Sullivan 1300. 139 N. Oark St., Chicago, HI. 1902 C. C. Mitchell 110 S, Dearborn St„ Box 3, Chicago, DL 1903 Francis P. Burke 904 Trust Company Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin 1904 Robert Pnoctor Monger Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana 1903 Daniel J. O'Connor 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Illinois 1906 Thomas A. Lally 811-13 Paulsen Bids., Spokane, Washington I90S Frank X. Cull Bulkley Bldg.. Cleveland, Ohio 1909 E. P. Qeary P, O. Box 356, Momence, Illinois 1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1900 Euclid Ave., Oeveland, Ohio 1911 Fred L. Steers 1635 First National Bank Bldg., Chicago, Illinois 
1912 B. J. Kaiser 324 Fourth St., Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 1913 James R. Devitt 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 1914 Frank H. Hayes 1232 Newport Ave., Chicago, Illinois 1913 James E. Sanford 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park, Bt. 1916 Timothy P. Galvin 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana 1917 Edward J. McOsker 104 S. Union St., Elgin, Illinois 1918 John A. Lenuner ]110-8th Ave., S., Escanaba. Michigsn 1919 Clarence Bader 650 Pierce St., Gary, Indiana 1920 Leo B. Ward 1012 Black Bldg., Los Angclcsi California 1921 Alden J. Cusick 1 Park Ave.. New York City 1922 Gerald Ashe 226 Glen Ellyn Way, Rochester, New York 1923 Paul Castner White Motor Company, Cleveland, Ohio 1921 James F.'Hayes Fifth Avenue Ass'n.. Empire State Bldg., N, Y. City 
1925 
John W. Scallan Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St., Chicago, HI. 1926 
Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 96 N. Walnut St.. East Orange, N, J. 1927 
Edmund DeClerq 8113 Ellis Ave., Chicago, III, 1928 
Louis Buckley 718 E. Corby St.. South Bend, Indiana 1929 
Joseph McNamara 231 Wisconsin St.. Indianapolis, Indiana 1930 
Bernard W. Conroy 72 Barrow St, New York City 1931 
John K. Boland 3624 Chestnut St, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 1932 
Herbert Giorgio . 9003 188tli St, Hollis, L. L. New York Donald Wise 1246 Killcrcst Road, South Bend, Indiana 1933 
DISTRICT GOVERNORS 
District I^avie Address 
I John W. Eggeman. '00 Old First Bank Bldg.. Fort Wayne, Ind. 
II Daniel Hilgartner, Jr.. '17 2039 E. 72nd PI., Chicago, Illinois. HI E. C. McHugh. '13 4220 Cherry St, Cincinnati, Ohio IV John V. Diener, '09 704 Cass St, Green Bay, Wisconsin 
V Raymond J. Kelly, '13 City Hall, Detroit Michigan VJ Thomas Farrell, '26 184 N. Walnut St, East Orange, New Jersey 
VII William A. Daunt, '08 110 E. 42nd St, New York City VIII Dr. Robert Boms, '17 948 Main St. Buffalo. New York IX Joseph P. Gartland. '27 60 Congress St, Boston, Mass. 
X Anselm D. Miller, '23 1238 Maple St. Roanoke, Va. XI Harold Foley, '21 Foley, Florida 
XII Frank Blocmcr, '22 126 E. Jefferson St, Louisville, Ky. XIII Arthur Carmody, '15 819 Slattery Bldg., Shreveport, La. XIV Joseph A. Menger, '25 107 Catherine Court San Antonio, Texas 
XV Dr. D. M. Nigro. '14 531 Argyle Bldg.. Kansas City. Missouri XVI Richarl B. Swift 20 Kahl Bldg., Davenport, Iowa XVII Dr. K..C. Monahan, '90 418 Hennessy Bldg., Butte, Montana xvni Robert Fox, '01 5730 17th Ave- Parkway, Denver, Colorado XIX James D. Barry. '97 82 W. Pennington St, Tucson, Arizona xs Howard Parker, '17 Sutter Club, Sacramento, California XXI E. M. Slarrett '21 801 Washington St, Port Townsend, Washington xxn Alfonso Zobcl, '24* CO. Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila. P. I. 
a/i ^ 

We helieve  '%  
you II enjoy  %„.  < ^  
thein  

tliej^e MILDER tliey TASTE BETTER 
© 1954. liccETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO . 








