The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
L^Ai^ 

; ^.^^yM^nm^immmmm 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
"Knute Rockne— All-American" (Pages 2 and 3)  
University Affairs (Page 4)  
N. D. Metallurgy (Page 7) m Student Notes (Page 8)  
Football News (Page 9)  
Spotlight Alumni (Page 11)  
Main Entrance, Rockne Memorial  Building  
Vol. 19  NOVEMBER, 1940  No. 2  

Thousands Attend Premiere Festivities 
—South Bend Tribune Picture 

A crowd, estimated to number 28,000, crowded into South Bend's Michigan Street, between the Granada and the Palace Theaters, to see and hear the movie stars who were present for the world premiere of "Knute Rocltne—^All-American." A bridge, erected in the street between the theaters, provided a temporary stage. (See story on opposite page.) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except January), by the University of Notre Dam.e, 
Notre Dnme, Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at tiie PostofBce, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the 
act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E . ARMSTOONG, "25, Editor; WIIJJAM R. DOOLEY, 76, Managing Editor 
Vol. 19 NOVEMBER. 1940 No. 2 
Rockne Picture Has South Bend Premiere 
South Bend and University- Join Facilities to Give 
Picture of Rockne's Life Memorable Introduction; 
General Reception is Tribute to Lasting Genius 
The world premiere of the Warner Brothers' picture, "Knute Eockne — Ail-American," held in South Bend on October 4, proved one thing conclusive­ly, that Knute Eockne's genius was rec­ognized at home and abroad at a re­markably early stage, and that the iirst decade the world has lived without him has only served to emphasize and enlarge the merits and the timeliness of his con­tributions. A general note of sadness permeating the crowds reflects the feel­ing that he, like his friend Will Rogers, would have been an even greater influ­ence in these years which need the rugged fundamentals. 
The picture brings credit to Eockne and to Notre Dame. The ALUMNUS at­tempts no criticism of it. Eockne is too near, in time and in sentiment, to thou­sands of alumni, for any ordinary stan­dards of criticism to be effective. The film has already been seen by the major­ity of alumni, and will probably be seen by all. The bulk of the reaction has been very favorable. And considering the handicaps implicit in this almost contem­porary characterization, that in itself is constructive criticism. The picture aims at the All American theme in the deeper sense of the Americanization of a great man as he was evolved from an immi­grant boy. And his use of football as an expression of more fundamental phases of character, individual and national, is the picture's objective. Inevitably, and interestingly, action derives largely from the crystallization of his ideas in the teams of Notre Dame. Names that con­jure up history and tradition for all Notre Dame men are sprinkled liberally throughout. 
The South Bend world premiere was engineered by a civic committee, headed by B. J. Voll, '17, former president of the Alumni Association. Streets were decorated. The week in South Bend and elsewhere was designated as National Knute Eockne Week, with many special programs featured, leading to the pre­miere itself. 
Kate Smith broadcast her program from South Bend all week, climaxing with the show on the night of the pre­miere. The popular program. Vox Pop, featured the visiting stars and some of the 1940 squad on Thursday night, and a national. chain carried the program form the banquet held in the University Dining Halls on the same night. The banquet packed in 1,000 guests and the visiting stars. 
Washington Hall, and four South Bend theaters were required to accom­modate the crowds on the night of the premiere, and very literally thousands of persons were lined up outside the 
BERNARD J. VOLL, '17 

Chairman, Civic Committee 

theaters unable to gain admission. 
Hollywood dug into its roster and sent out Pat O'Brien, star of the pic­ture, with his wife and his mother. Gale Page, Donald Crisp, Eonald Eeagan and Owen Davis, Jr., of the cast, and Eudy Vallee, Irene Eich, Anita. Louise, Bob Hope, Jimmy Fidler, Gail Patrick, Peggy Diggins, Eosemary Lane, Bruce Cabot, Eicardo Cortez, Jane Wyman, Eobert Buckner, and Charlie Buggies. Backed up by Kate Smith and Franklin 
D. Eoosevelt, Jr., this array really re­warded the crowds at the many events of the week. 
Mayor Jesse I. Pavey, who headed the civic co-operation program, and Mrs. Bonnie Eockne and J. Arthur Haley, '26, who served as technical directors of the picture, added greatly to the success of the week. 
The football game with the CoUege of the Pacific on Saturday, and the double appearance of the United States Navy Band on the same day in South Bend, almost escaped notice. However, the fact that Coach Stagg was a mem­ber of the cast of the picture and that the stars were at the game and intro­duced between the halves, and that Notre Dame won the game, properly concluded an occasion in South Bend that renewed brilliantly the ties so casually accepted in the fall of 1930, when Knute Eockne worked at Notre Dame and lived in South Bend. 
The ALUMNUS hopes that between the lines the reader will read the great work of the many civic committees, number­ing many alumni; the cooperation of Warner Brothers; the cooperation of the University; the charm of the stars; and the million details that must always go unsung into the production of an event like the premiere. 
UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . . . . 
FOUNDER'S DAY 
Founder's Day festivities, Sunday, Oct. 13, were opened with a solemn high Mass in Sacred Heart Church, celebrated by Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, vice-president of the University. 
Assisting at the Mass were Rev. Fran­cis Boland, C.S.C, deacon, and Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, sub-deacon. Rev. Christopher O'Toole, C.S.C, was master of ceremonies. The Moreau Seminary choir sang. 
The development of Notre Dame from the time its founders left France to come to America was traced by Rev. J. Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, director of studies, in the Founder's Day sermon. He characterized Notre Dame as "hum­ble in her origin, heroic in her days of trial, grateful in her present develop­ment and hopeful that her future may be worthy of her past." 
A radio program on Oct. 14, opening the year's activities in the campus stu­dios of WSBT-WFAM, brought to the microphone Father Cavanaugh, Athletic Director Elmer F. Layden and James E. Armstrong, alumni secretary. The Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Daniel H. Pedtke, sang and provided the musical background for a sketch depict­ing the University's founding by Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.C. 
SPIRITUAL DEFENSE 
A program of spiritual defense that will involve the reorganization of un­dergraduate religious studies has been launched at the University under the direction of University authorities and 

• Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C, head of the Department of Religion. 
A syllabus prepared last year by Rev. Charles C Miltner, C.S.C, recently ap­pointed head of Portland University, Portland, Ore., will be used as a basis for modernizing religious instruction and a religion faculty of 30 priest pro­fessors is now working out final details of a completely integrated course of study. 
University heads believe that in the present world more than ever an accu­rate knowledge of religion is needed. Experience in other countries has shown that men who have insufficient knowl­edge of their religion will not practice it after successive open attacks. The new program of religious instruction is termed "a building up of defense on the spiritual side." 
The two-fold program will be divided into intensive class instruction devoted to facts and philosophy of religion, and periodic lectures by the leading Catholic apologists of America. These latter will include, among many others, the Rev. Daniel A. Lord, S.J., who preached one of the student missions on the campus this year; Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, of Catholic Universit}', Washington, D. C, and the Rev. John A. O'Brien, founder of the Newman Foundation at the Uni­versity of Illinois, and now on the Notre Dame faculty. 
Students who display aptitude and ability will be encouraged to continue study and become leaders in the work of Catholic apologetics. 
Regular meetings of fx-eshmen and sophomore professors will commence soon to discuss additional plans and ideas for this new program. 
Already several newly ordained priests have returned to Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C, for advanced apolo­getics instruction. This is part of the plan to have a highly specialized faculty in the religion department. 
WILLKIE AT N. D. 
Added to the list of prominent per­sonages who have visited Notre Dame is the name of the republican presiden­tial candidate, Wendell L. Willkie, who spoke from the steps of the Main Build­ing the morning of Sept. 30 to a large gathering, including residents of the Bend, Willkie followers, students and faculty members. 
The nominee was introduced by Rev. 
J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, who said that in keeping with the "true American principles that are still a part of the Notre Dame pro­gram" he was glad to introduce a "fel­low Indianian." He added: "Notre Dame is glad to extend its hospitality to the leader of one of the major political par­ties of the United States and a nominee for the high office of president of the United States." 
For the first few minutes of his speech, which avoided political issues, Mr. Will­kie lightly passed a few quips to the crowd and then recalled that he, too, was a student of an Indiana school 27 years ago. Turning to the more serious portion of his talk, Mr. Willkie said: "We can give reverent thanks that these young men are not experiencing what other young men are experiencing in the shambles in various parts of the world today." 
He called the institutions similar to Notre Dame the great glory of the coun­try, saying "There is no greater contri­bution to democracy than is demonstrat­ed by institutions such as this. We must guard against the possibility that insti­tutions like this should pass from Amer­ica. We must dedicate ourselves to the fact that institutions of free study shall never pass from this nation." 
Mr. Willkie paid a tribute to Knute 
K. Rockne and to Notre Dame's high position, not only in the world of sport but the academic world. He declared that the development of synthetic rubber by the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, may be the salvation of America and democracy should the United States be forced into war. 
NEW ENGINEERING TEACHER 
The University aeronautical engineer­ing staff has been strengthened by the addition of Mr. Jay A. Bolt, formerly instructor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Illinois, who will teach and supervise laboratory work on aircraft and automotive engines. 
Mr. Bolt has charge of the internal combustion engine laboratories. He has conducted experimental work in engine design and fuel-testing for several com­mercial laboratories, including Chrysler Corporation and Ethyl Gasoline Corpor­ation. He holds a master's degree from the Chrysler Institute of Engineering, Detroit. 
MACHINE RULE 
Machine rule of politics in the United States is on its way out, according to Dr. F. A. Hermens, associate professor of politics at Notre Dame and interna^ tionally known authority on proportional representation. 
Dr. Hermens traces the social and economic factors which made political 

"boss rule" possible in the United States Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., vice-nerton, C.S.C, is secretary of the com­and then analyzes current national de­president of the University, has been mittee, which, in conjunction with the 
velopments in an article entitled "Exit named by Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, General Council of the University, will the Boss" in the current Revieiv of Poli­C.S.C, president, as chairman of the be in chargre of the event. The length tics published quarterly at the Univer­committee planning the Notre Dame and exact dates of the centennial observ­
sity.' centennial celebration. Rev. James Con-ance have not been determined. 
The hopeful conclusion that the United States will eventually be purged of political bossism, is prefaced by Dr. Begin New Heaf-Power Laboratory 
Hermens with a quotation from a speech of Thomas E. Dewey, New York's crime buster, as follows: 
"Today the extermination of organ­ized crime is gradually progressing from city to city. Its sponsors are being ex­terminated and driven from power. . . . America is cleaning its own house." 
PRESIDENT TO CALIFORNIA 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.3.C., pres­ident of the University attended the centennial celebration of the establish­ment of the Catholic hierarchy in Cali­fornia, Oct. 12-15, in Los Angeles. Father O'Donnell also attended the sixth annual Congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine, held in Los An­geles at the same time, as well as the dedication ceremonies of the archdioce­san seminary at San Bernardino, Calif. 
Excavation began in late October for a new ?65,000 Heat-Power laboratory of the College of Engineering, the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, announced. The new labor­atory will be built 75 feet north of the Ave Maria printing offices now under construction on the northeastern spur of the University campus. 
Maginnis and Walsh of Boston, the University architects, and Thomas L. Hickey, Inc., of South Bend, contractor, are in charge of the building which, ac­cording to present plans will be 122 feet long and 82 feet wide. The building will consist of a ground floor and a main or machinery floor. 
Dean Dugald C Jackson of the Col­lege of Engineering announced that the new laboratory will be built of simple brick style with a flat roof having a monitor for additional light on the main floor. The south side of the building on both floors will be used by the depart­ment of mechanical engineering, prin­cipally for its steam laboratory work, although equipment in hydraulic machin­ery and air-conditioning will be installed. The north, half of the main floor will be the internal combustion engine labora­tory of the Department of Aeronautical Engineering. 
On the ground floor at the east end and on the north side will be two class­rooms, a reading room, and several small research rooms. A combination tool room and machine shop will be located in the middle of the main floor. Two small of­fices, locker rooms, lavatories, and show­er rooms will be provided. 
The internal combustion engine equip­ment will be moved from its present lo­cation in Gushing Hall, releasing space for the aerodynamics and aeroplane structures laboratories of the Depart­ment of Aeronautical Engineering. 
*^fi 

Monogram men of 1918 and 1919 were special guests over the week-end of the Georgia Tech game as the Athletic Asso­ciation sponsored its annual Old-Timers reunion. Presented at student pep meeting in the gym on Friday night, the Old-Timers later were guests of the A.A. at a dinner in the campus Dining Hall and guests of the St. Joseph Valley Club at the pre-game smoker in South Bend. On Saturday, the reunioners had special sideline seats for the game. 
All monogram men of the 1919-18 era for whom the Alumni Office has current addresses were individually invited for the week-end. The following were present and had this pic­ture taken in the stadium. Left to right, top row, Frank Murphy, '20, Lafayette, Ind.; Dillon Patterson, '20, South Bend; Fred Slackford, '18, Cleveland; Bob McGuire, '18, Chicago; John Powers, '20, Qeveland; Ed Meehan, '20, South Bend; Ted Rademaker, '19, Peru, Ind.; Chick Bader, '19, Gary, Ind.; Frank Miles, '21, South Bend; Walter Sweeney, '21, South Bend; Bill Mohn, '22, South Bend. 
Bottom row: Gerry Hoar, '21, Notre Dame; Walter Degree, '18, Detroit; Grover Malone, '20, South Bend; Frank Lockard, '19, Toledo, Ohio; Jim Boland, '18, South Bend; Norm Barry, '21, Chicago; Walter Miller, '20, Defiance, Ohio. 
>ean Jackson on 
Religion 
Holds Religion Essential 
In &igineering Curriculum 
The October 11, 1940, issue of Science, the official organ for the American So­ciety for the Advancement of Science, carries an article on "Engineering and Religion," by Dugald C. Jackson, Jr., dean of the College of Engineering of the University. Dean Jackson presented this article as an address before the niinois-Indiana section of the Society for the Promotion of Engineering Edu­cation, at Notre Dame last April. 
Concluding, Dean Jackson states: 

'Troper consideration of social prob­lems can not be given nor adequate so­lutions made unless we use the engineer­ing method of obtaining all information pertinent to the specific problem. We do not have all information unless we have an understanding of religious faith and convictions, and their effect upon the actions and viewpoint of individuals. Since the engineer, increasingly in the future, will be concerned with social, in addition to technical and economic prob­lems, it is important for him to have knowledge of religious principles and their result and eflFect on the individual. This in turn places the charge upon us as engineering educators to determine how far the training in religious princi­ples should be brought into engineering training as a formal part of the curricu­la- I submit that religious faith and some knowledge of religious principles is in­grained in our students, and for this reason, so far as practicable, definite at­tention to integrating an intellectual study of religious principles and convic­tions into the engineering currcula is desirable, if not actually essential, for the best progress of the profession of engineering in its broadening scope in approaching social relationship in the future. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS 

The Sixth Printing ^of Introductory Sociology, by Eev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C, appeared in September. The changes made in this printing bring the book, published in 1935, up to date. At the same time the Second Printing of Father Murray's Study Guide for Intro­ductory Sociology was released, this like­wise containing several changes. Both books are published by F. S. Crofts & Co., New York City. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Conducts Cosmic Ray Experiment 
Father George Baldwin, '24, N. D. Pro­fessor, Worb Wrtli WaHer Duncan. '12 
• (Reprinted from the "Scholastic") 
In a shaft of a cement quarry on the outskirts of LaSalle, HI., beneath 100 feet of solid rock, rests a curious, box­like arrangement. The instrument, recall­ing the days before streamlining when every family car had a hunch-back de­tachable trunk, was placed in the quarry by a physics professor of Notre Dame, the Rev. George J. Baldwin, C.S.C, '24. 
Father Baldwin describes the affair as a portable, cosmic ray 'telescope." With the aid of the instrument Father Baldwin hopes to add to the informa-
Father Baldwin 
tion already possessed by science on the nature of cosmic rays. 
After describing his apparaatus.-the priest-physicist went on to explain how the experiment is being conducted. Be­cause of the generosity and kindness of friends at LaSalle, and particularly the interest displayed by a prominent resi­dent of LaSalle, Walter Duncan, '12, Father Baldwin found accessible a spot in the Marquette Cement Company's quarries which has been regarded as ideal for experimentation. 
Father Baldwin is comparing the dis­tribution of cosmic rays at ground level with the distribution of the same rays at 100 feet beneath solid rock. 
The cosmic rays are the most penetrat­ing of high speed particles known to sci­ence and travel at about the same speed as light. They have been known through experiments to have penetrated as far as 2,000 feet into the earth's surface. While at sea level it is possible to record prac­tically all of the particles, beneath solid rock it is more difficult because some of the particles are screened. The cosmic ray "telescope" when placed in the quarry automatically registers the num­ber and describes somewhat the nature of cosmic ray particles. Present plans call for inspecting the machine at inter­vals of a month throughout the period of a year. 
The cosmic ray "telescope" construct­ed by the priest himself at the physics laboratory at Notre Dame, is an ingen­ious device and speaks well for the long and continuous ardor with which he has pursued his studies since his graduate work with Dr. A. H. Compton, of Chi­cago University. Father Baldwin's in­terest in investigating the nature of cosmic ray particles led him to the lab­oratories of the University of Texas where he conducted experiments similar to the present one. 
The material Father Baldwin obtains, he intends to turn over to Professor 
M. S. Vallarta of the Massachusetts In­stitute of Technology, for interpretation. Professor Vallarta is one of the fore­most authorities in the field of cosmic ray research and it was he who sug­gested the experiment to the priest. Shortly after the suggestion Father Baldwin began work on the intricate mechanism he is now operating. 
One of the most interesting, and the essential feature of the 'telescope" is the Geiger-Mueller tube, a copper cylin­der of about five inches in length, through the center of which is drawn a fine tungsten wire and which is enclosed in a narrow, glass envelope containing gas of a determined pressure. This tube does the actual counting of the cosmic rays. As the ray enters the tube it ionizes the gas, causing a current to flow, which when amplified by an elaborate electrical circuit causes the rays to be counted. 
Father Baldwin had little to say when questioned on the possible practical effects of his experiments. He closely maintained that the purpose of the phy­sicist is to understand better the nature of the physical, otherwise described as the natural, world. A study such as the one he is presently pursuing in inves­tigating the properties of cosmic rays will help immeasurably in better under­standing the construction of matter. 

Department of Metallurgy Active 
Faculty and Students of Young Depaitment Set 
Fast Pace in College of Engineering: Attracting 
Wide Attention in Scientific and Professional Helds 
The Department of Metallurgy of the College of Engineering, under the direc­tion of Prof. E. G. Mahin, Ph.D., which was established in 1935, has merited considerable attention. Prof. Mahin 
Dr. E. G. Mahin 

joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1925, coming here from Purdue. His work has been consistently commended, and as head of the metallurgy work he has brought Notre Dame into the scientific and professional limelight. 
Located in the John F. Gushing, C.E. '06 Hall of Engineering, the Department, in the.words of E. E. Thum, editor of Metal Progress, is "the most compact, best organized and best equipped depart­ment of metallurgy I have ever seen." 
The library of the Department is one of the best of its kind, containing about 2,000 volumes of American and foreign reference books and bound volumes of metallurgical periodicals. 
Dr. Mahin is prominent in the litera­ture of the iield. Recent publications of his include a research paper on "Abso­lute Hardness," appearing in the June, 1939, Transactions of the American So­ciety for Metals, and an article, published in two issues of The Iron Age, May 30 and June 6, 1940, on "Case Garburiza­tion of Steel." The latter articles deal with the "requirements for a hard sur­face — adapted to resist wear, abrasion, penetration, or other surface injury — upon a body of metal which does not possess the accompanying brittleness of the hard surface and which therefore will withstand shock stresses without danger of failure. A few examples of such requirements are to be found in ball and roller bearings, gear teeth for exacting duty, and cam shafts and piston pins for gasoline motors. . . ." 
Assistant Professor A. E. Troiano came to Notre Dame a year ago with an Sc;D. from Harvard. Under his direction, Notre Dame has equipped a modem lab­oratory for the determination of metal crystal structure by X-ray diffraction methods. Dr. Troiano is highly trained in this field and he has already published important papers dealing with his re­searches. While still at Harvard he pub­lished a paper dealing with certain prob­lems in dental metallurgy, in the Journal of the (British) Institute of Metals. Last February a joint paper (with Dr. A. B. Greninger of Harvard) was presented before the American Institute of Mininjf & Metallurgical Engineers, in New York This has since been published in the Transactions. Next February a similar paper will be presented before the same society. And in the year he has been at Notre Dame, Dr. Troiano has been di­recting the doctoral work of Francis E. McGuire, B.S.M.E. '37, M.S. '38, teach­ing fellow in metallurgy, a report of which he expects to have ready by next fall for the annual meeting of the Amer­ican Society for Metals. 
' Dr. A. R. Troiano 

The American Society for Metals has a total membership of about 14,000. The Notre Dame Chapter of this Society has been organized since January, 1937. From the beginning, the Chapter has been known throughout the country as a successful one, even though relatively small. It now has about 95 members, di­vided about equally between the Notre Dame campus and neighboring cities of South Bend, Mishawaka, Elkhart, NUes, 
LaPorte and Buchanan. There are 11 . sustaining (corporation) members. The 
Chapter has an impressive list of speak­
ers each year, and the visit of the Presi­
dent of the Society to the Chapter each 
February has become a regular event. 
October opened the 1940-41 series with an address by Robert S. Archer, chief metallurgist of the Chicago Divi­sion of the Republic Steel Corp. On Nov. 13, the Chapter will hear A. A. Bates, chemical and metallurgical research de­partment laboratories of Westinghonse Electric & Mfg. Co. 
Sustaining members of the Chapter are the American Foundry Equipment Co., Bantam Bearings Corp., Bendiz Products Division, Bendix Aviation Corp., Dodge Mfg. Corp., I. & M. Elec­tric Co., National Standard Co., Oliver Farm Equipment Co., Sibley Machine & Foundry Corp., South Bend Lathe Works, and the Studebaker Corp. 
As one of the educational activities of the Chapter, it regularly subscribes to the monthly Metal Progress for nine hi^ schools of this district, including Benton Harbor, Buchanan and St. Joseph, Midi., Elkhart and Mishawaka, Ind., and Cen­tral Catholic, Central Senior, Riley and Washington high schools of South Bend. 
HISTORY DEPARTMENT PRIZES 
The History Department of the Uni­versity announces two prizes of $25 each to be known as the Father Charles O'Ddonnell atfd the Charles Phillips com­petitive essay prizes, to be offered annu­ally in competition for the most satisfac­tory essay on specified topics. The con­tests are open to all students pursuing studies in history. This year the assigned topics are: For the Father Charles DlJonnell prize, A Comparison of the Ideals of Religious Liberty in Puritan Massaehuaetts and Catholic Maryland. For the Charles Phillips prize, SU Peter in Rome. The essays must be submitted to the contest committee not later than Saturday, April 19, 1941. The contest committee is composed of the Rev. Thom­as McAvoy, C.S.C., and Professor T. Bowyer CampbeD. 
STUDENT NOTES 
SAVE MY NOTEBOOK 
Memories of the old hose-cart and volunteer fire-fighting days were recalled recently when the new Notre Dame fire engine made its trial run about the cam­pus. Replete with red extension ladders, searchlights, sirens and other parapher­nalia the new truck was outfitted from an International chassis by engineers in the Notre Dame heating plant under the direction of Brother Borromeo, C.S.C, chief engineer. Fire boxes have been placed at convenient spots throughout the campus and a new station has been built to house the new machine. Plans are being worked out to have regular firemen on duty both day and night. 
SO THEY TELL ME 
You can't prove it by Martin Kurdys, University policeman at the main en­trance to the school, that the Notre Dame team ever played in its stadium. Kurdys has never seen an Irish eleven perform although he saw the stadium built and each Saturday is on duty a mere 200 yards from the gridiron scene. His job is to handle the crowds and from the traffic confusion and periodic yells he has surmised that something takes place inside the stadium. He keeps in touch with the game through a radio at his stand. The genial policeman re­calls that the worst football weather during his ten years occurred in 1932 when Northwestern and Notre Dame bat­tled in a raging blizzard. The most im­pressive crowd gathered for the Southern Cal game in 1935. According to officer Kurdys the new busses have facilitated the handling of pedestrian traffic. He lives in hope of one day going over and actually seeing the Irish eleven in action. 
CAMPUS TO CAMP 
Notre Dame's double devotion to "God and Country" was manifested on Oct. 16 when 841, approximately 25 per cent, of the student body and facul­ty registered for military service. 190 enroUees are members of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross. A special Mass in Sacred Heart Church opened the day's activities and all classes were suspended. American flags marked 12 residence halls where registration took place. Two pro­crastinators filled out their cards a few minutes before 9 p.m., the deadline. Students may postpone their enlistment until July, 1941. Several Holy Cross 
By George L Haiihcock, '39 

priests have applied for appointments as army chaplains. 
ENROLLMENT FIGURES Total student enrollment is 3,267, 42 of whom are from 14 foreign coun­tries. New York has the largest delega­tion with 497, followed by Illinois and Indiana. Lawyers number 105 including 42 first-year men. There are 193 non-Catholics representing 15 denominations. Fourteen residence halls now accommo­date 2,552 students. Graduate students, for the most part, live off-campus except a few who are prefects. 
MONEY MAGIC 
"Education by deception" is the method of Jack Whelan, sophomore from Bloomfield, N. J., whose mystify­ing antics and glib tongue have been deceiving people since he was 13. A ma­gician with more than a hat full of tricks. Jack is paying part of his ex­penses with money received from per­formances in the South Bend area, av­eraging two or three shows weekly. He first succumbed to the lure of ma^c at the age of 10, when he saw the famous Thurston perform, and he has been coached by Hardini, brother of the well-known Houdini. 
CASTLE COMFORT 
Rickety wooden benches have long been the revered seating furniture on the Sorin front porch. But not any more. The castle boys have gone in for real up-to-date comfort with a nice shiny glider and six steel chairs. A canvas of the inmates by a group of progressive promoters produced the necessary pe­cunia. No longer required to eat in the University dining hall 'tis understood that the "sub" boys are now planning weekly knitting parties. 
• 

FOOTLIGHTS 
Student enthusiasm increases as the Knights of Columbus intensify their efforts to bring campus vaudeville back to its former peak of popularity. What once was an annual occurrence, only to be dropped after a number of years, was given "new life last year when Rev. Eu­gene Burke, C.S.C, ace campus story­teller and singer of Irish ballads, pre­vailed on the Knights to stage a show. 
Money prizes will be offered for the best individual performances. 

TEMPORARY TRADITION Alumni, especially those who lived there, will regret the passing of Fresh­man hall. Though not the most hand­some quarters on the campus and often the target of much cynicism, the "Paste­board Palace" nevertheless had acquired traditional airs. Annually listed in the University catalogue as a "temporary" structure. Freshman hall was built in 1923 to accommodate the increase of students returning to college after the first World War. It was originally Soph­omore hall, the name Freshman coming into use in 1931. It now rest in pieces 
— a. big hunk remains standing as a storeroom of salvaged materials. 
POT POURRI 
Friends of the genial Rev. Thomas P. Irving, C.S.C, will be interested to know that he now heads the Religion depart­ment. . . . Highlighting the fall social season is the coming Sophomore Cotil­lion on Nov. 15. . . . General cEairman will be Hans O. Helland, Wisconsin Dells, Wis., brother of OUie Helland, '39. . . . Notre Dame alumni desiring pam­phlets on subjects in major fields of Catholic thought may obtain these by writing to the Notre Dame Commission on Decent Literature. . . . The lawyers forgot all about legal cases and studied more romantic ones at the annual ball in the Palais Royale on Oct. 18. . . . The student trip delegation 600 strong, sleepy-eyed, tired and weary, will re­turn early Monday morning, Nov. 4, after the Army week-end just in time to catch 8 o'clock classes. 
SOME MORE 
Jerry O'Dowd, Fort Wayne, Ind., lawyer, and John Reddy, Brooklyn, 
N. Y., graduate student, representing the University at the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine convention in Los Angeles, Oct. 12-15, were hosted and toasted by the N. D. club of that city. . . . Night classes in typing and short­hand are being taught two hours a week. . . . Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, editor of "Publications in Mediaeval Studies" has been elected to membership in the Medi­aeval Academy of America, a society devoted to the study of scholarship in the Middle Ages. . . . Daniel H. Pedtke, head of the Music Department, has re­organized the N. D. Symphony orchestra and a full program of concerts is planned for the year. 
By JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 

ATHLETICS 
Inability of Brothers Armstrong and Dooley to receive this copy, edit it, have it set in type and printed, and deliver it to your desk in a split second necessar­ily means that timeliness of these dis­patches must suffer. 
Hence, we must set our keen, analyti­cal brain to work on an appraisal of the 1940 Fighting Irish without having seen them against a strong team. Maybe they will have (will have had) their first se­vere test aaginst Illinois, maybe against Army, surely against Navy, Iowa, North­western or Southern California. 
But Pacific, Georgia Tech, and Car­negie Tech just didn't have it. Had we written this after the Pacific game, it would be much bluer than it will be. Aggressiveness and alertness were lack­ing, excepting four or five members of 
Bob Hargrave 

the cast. Coach A. A. Stagg's Tigers started his 51st season of coaching by marching right smack to a touchdown against the finest Elmer Layden could muster. Notre Dame won eventually, 25 to 7. 
Georgia Tech made several early scoring threats against the shock troops, who manfully stood off the Yellow Jackets. The first team took over for 13 minutes of the second quarter and, with­in a five-minute span, Quarterback Bob Hargrave had directed his mates to three touchdowns. Hargrave scored one him­self on a pass. Later Bemie Crimmins blocked and Jim Brutz recovered a Tech punt for the decisive touchdown. The Atlantans scored against the second and third teams, getting their third touch­down with 10 seconds of the game re­maining. 
The Carnegie Tech 61 to 0 slaughter saw the first two teams strike early and often. Johnny O'Brien blocked and re­covered a Tech punt for a touchdown after only five minutes of play. Capt. Milt (Moose) Piepul scored two more, and Steve Juzwik grabbed a pass for another. Came the second team and Ber­nie Crimmins chalked up three, making the score 47 to 0 before the third team got into action. Al Lee held the fullback pace by making two more touchdowns in the final period. 
Both Techs, however, were far below full fighting strength for Notre Dame, and rather obviously, Notre Dame was red hot for both games. For example, against Georgia Tech, the first team en­tered the game with third down-ten coming up and Bob Saggau heaved a long pass to Steve Juzwik for first down deep in Tech territory. The regular back­field entered the Carnegie game under the same circumstances, the regular line having started originally, and Saggau whipped a pass to Juzwik for a touch­down on the first play. Against Georgia Tech it was third and ten on the Irish 40, when Juzwik's reverse got him loose, for 60 yards and a touchdown. 
It's all been breath-taking to watch, the canny daring of Hargrave, the pass­ing and kicking of Saggau, the Bucky O'Connor style running of Juzwik, and the all-around play of Piepul behind a line which improved its blocking, tack­ling, and alertness immeasurably over a two-week period. 
Coach Elmer Layden thought that after three games involving Pacific's spread formations, Georgia's Tech's razzle - dazzle, and Carnegie Tech's power, he would have a good line on his prospects. But only Pacific came up to expectations, with the Techs ham­pered by pre-game and game injuries. 
Layden does know that, while funda­mentals have improved, there is room for more improvement. "The kids know it, too," he says, "and they're all will­ing to work. Competition for jobs is stiff, and we'll get better, whether we are good or not now. 
"Maybe," he continued, "we'll know after the Illinois game, and again maybe we won't. 'Zup' has had some injuries, too, and may not be set. Personally I think he's been lying in the weeds for us." 
A quick look at the schedule shows that the lUini whipped Bradley, came close against Southern California, and lost to Michigan. The Ulini were steamed up for none of these games, according to persons close to the picture. Army appears to be weaker than at any time in recent years. But the worst Notre Dame team in history beat a good Army 
Si3S?A3 
^^S^issg 
tort 
Tom Gallagher 

team, 13 to 12, in 1933; and Rockne's worst team beat the Cadets, 12 to 6, when the latter were undefeated and were headed for the national title in 1928. Army, by the same token, has scored some upset victories. This doesn't look like the year, but let's just get the possibilities into the records anyhow. 
Navy is much improved, as victory over Princeton (and the manner of the victory) prove. Iowa lost a 10 to 6 de­cision to an inspired Indiana team, one that had been coked up all week long by talks of "Bo" McMillin's demise as coach, and the Hawkeyes have otherwise been perfect. Northwestem's triuinphs over Ohio State and Wisconsin have un­covered a line which previously had been obscured by a galaxy of high-powered backs. Southern Califomia has started slowly — as usual — and will undoubt­edly be ready for the Irish by Dec. 7 
— as usual. 
Whether or not the Irish are as potent as the experts seem to think, they have compiled some dazzling statistics to date. Their 112 points in three games are 10 more than they scored all last season. The opposition's 27 points are 6 fewer than Purdue, Georgia Tech, and South-em Methodist scored in the first three games of 1939. 
We have been fortunate to be able to keep statistics and substitutions at all, what with some 68 players having seen action to date and we do not have the figures by teams. With all the emphasis there appears to be on passing, mostly by the first or Hargrave unit, the Irish have attempted only 35 tosses in three games, completing 13 and getting 2 in­tercepted. Passes have netted 295 yards as compared with 682 from rushing. Op­ponents have made 240 yards through 26 completed passes, out of 56 attempt­ed. They have made only 219 by rushing. 
^mi 
Johnny Gubanich 
And with Notre Dame's 112 points to 27, and 37 first downs to 26, the Irish have run only 195 plays to oppon­ents' 207. These figures include plays from rushing and passing, punts, and fumbles. Notre Dame has a substantial lead, 10 to 5, in fumbles and should again be invincible in this department, the intricacies of the Notre Dame re­verses being what they are. 
The individual figures are still more interesting. The chart following shows scoring and rushing totals only. 
p.a. Player times eain loss net av. td. td. pts. 
Jozwik. r.h. 11 159 0 159 14.5 4 1 25 Grunmins, f.b. 10 51 9 42 4.2 4 0 24 Capt. Piepul, f.b 22 170 1 169 7.7 3 5 23 Al Lee, f.b. 5 67 0 67 13 2 2 14 Sagrgau, IJi. 23 65 25 30 1.3 1 0 6 Basarus, r.h. 17 66 14 52 3 0 0 0 Evans, l.b. 26 127 22 105 4 0 0 0 McGannon, l.h 6 23 6 17 3 0 0 0 Earley, r.h. 3 34 2 32 10 0 0 0 Gassidy, r.h. 2 16 0 16 8 0 0 0 Warner, I.h. 1 11 0 11 11 0 0 0 
There are a few more of lesser im­portance. In addition to the scoring fig­ures given, Jim Brutz, left tackle. Bob Hargrave, quarterback, and Johnny O'Brien, right end, have scored touch­downs, and Joe Laiber, left guard, has kicked two extra points. 
Standouts in the line have not been notable, with a few exceptions. It's one of those "party lines," according to Joe Boland, and it's coming along. Bob Dove, Youngstown, Ohio, has done a great job and is now up from the third to the first team, the only soph on the dub. His ag­gressiveness was noticeable as early as the Pacific game. 
Tom Gallagher has done a standout job at left tackle, perhaps the most con­sistent of all the linemen, and Jim Brutz has done well as his understudy. 
Johnny O'Brien and John Kovatch at right end have also had their moments. Of the guards, Joe Laiber against Georgia Tech and Bob Maddock against Carnegie made an impression on these eyes. 
The centers have been handicapped by injuries — every one of them: Bob Osterman, Bob McHale, Tom Brock, Gordy O'Reilly, and Jim Ford — which may account for several poor passes and an occasional defensive slip-up. For a brand new set, however, they're doing all right. 
Pete Kelly, Johnny Gubanich, and Paul Lillis, who complete the starting line may not have been flashy enough for us to catch 'em, but they must be doing all right because they're still up there. 
Cliff Brosey, husky junior right tackle, was lost probably for the season when he received a cracked fibula in his right 
Bob Saggau 
leg on the first play of the Georgia Tech game. Walt Ziemba and Bob Neff, soph­omores, have moved up without greatiy weakening the post, although our sym­pathy goes to big Cliff. 
Wherever you are, you've probably read of the feats of Hargrave, Saggaa, Juzwik, and Piepul. Hargrave has been touted as a daring lover of the forward pass — we just want to add that his courage has been a reasoned daring and smacks not a whit of the reckless. 
He has fine passers in Saggau and Juzwik, and even Piepul when the cap­tain takes a notion to wind up and let one go. Hargrave, Juzwik, Sagg:au, and O'Brien have proved themselves fine receivers as well. With the speed incor­porated in this group, the passer can lead the receiver by enough so that the defenders haven't much chance of inter­cepting. 
Saggau and Piepul supply all the punt­ing ability one backfield needs. Juzwik and Saggau are break-away runners, the former having been especially proficient up to this writing. 
Paul LillU 
Piepul — and now we're cooking with gas — can do everything anyone else in the backfield can do . . . but super­latively. In the Carnegie Tech game, be­fore the Tartans got tired, he made one 17-yard touchdown jaunt on which two tacklers hit him, high and low, on the five-yard line, and another came up from in front to help. Undaunted, the Moose got his touchdown. Even more remark­able, we thought, was his second touch­down from the one-yard line. He started his charge as the ball came back from center, but it was a low pass and he had to take it off his shoetops. He got the ball, and in one continuous motion, rose up, and dived over the line. Since he usually batters his way into the line and drives, he used a strange technique, but it was the only thing to use under the circumstances. Layden, a pretty fair country all-American himself, and one not £^ven to elaborate praise, rates the Moose the best fullback he has ever seen. 
The No. 2 set of backs is coming along in good shape. Tony Girolami, talented sophomore from Chicago, was out of two games with injuries but turned in a creditable debut performance against Carnegie. Owen (Dippy) Evans, soph left half, is working his way into the picture in good style. Steve Bagarus, 160-pound junior right half, is the light­est man on the squad and to date the team "iron man." He's played more min­utes than anyone. Bemie Crimmins, shifted to fullback from right half, has carried the ball 10 times from scrim­mage. He has made four touchdowns. If he will just continue at that pace, Layden's worries will end. 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
Thoma* F. Gallagher, '76 

•piORTY-EIGHT consecutive years of 
brilliant and devoted service as presiding justice of the Pitchburg, Mass., District Court were recorded in behalf of Thomas F. Gallagher, A.B. '76, when, at the age of 83, he resigned from the bench in July in order to conserve his health. 
Accepting the resignation of Judge Gallagher, Governor Saltonstall, of Mas­sachusetts, wrote to him: "May I tell you that you have, in your 48 years, perforined the type of judicial service that is typical of the best interests of this Commonwealth and that your posi­tion will indeed be a difficult one to fill because of the high standard you have set during your term." 
A brilliant student, Judge Gallagher studied law after leaving Notre Dame and was soon admitted to the bar. He was the first president of the Fitchburg-Leominster Bar Association and was also for many years a member of the Worces-Worcester County Bar Association. 
Ardently interested in the advance­ment of Notre Dame, Judge Gallagher has maintained through the years an active and generous support of all the activities of the University. The Univer­sity, in turn, has been proud to recog­nize in him the embodiment of those teachings of "God-Country-Notre Dame" for which she stands, and she joins now with the thousands who wish Judge Gal-long years of health and happiness. . 
QJPECIAL nationwide recognition, in 
which the ALUMNUS is happy to par­ticipate, greeted Harry C. Baujan, '17, as he began this fall his 19th season of coaching at the University of Dayton, Dayton, Ohio, conducted by the Society of Mary. Since he became coach in 1922, Harry's Dayton teams (as of Oct. 16) have won 103 games, lost 56, and tied 8, while never being outscored by their op­ponents in a season's totals. 
Harry came to Notre Dame as a prep in 1910. Playing three years of prep football and four years of college foot­ball at end, he was picked on All-West­ern elevens for two years and on All-Indiana teams for three years. Gradu­ated in 1917, he entered the Army and served overseas in the first World War. 
Professional football in its pioneer stages claimed Harry after the War, and he played with the famed Massillon team in 1919 and with the Cleveland Indians in 1920-21. Joining the University of Dayton staff in 1922, he was made head football coach in 1923 and, in 1928, athletic director. Coaching baseball is an additional job. 
Harry is married and has one son. He 
Harry C. Baujan, '17 

has joined a continuing and generous interest in Notre Dame and in the Alum­ni Association and in the Notre Dame Club of Dayton with his admirable ac­complishments for the University of Dayton. 
John C. TaUy, '11 

XJEARING much from many persons 
of the Thomas More Library & Book Shop, 22 West Monroe St., Chica­go, of which John C. TuUy, '11, is the founder and president, the ALUMNUS asked John for additional information about his project. His response was such an inspiring expression of Catholic Ac­tion — in live action — that your mag­azine could do nothing more effective for its readers than to present John's own words. They will follow shortly. 
Rrst,. let it be said for the present record that John is president of the La Grange National Bank, La Grange, ni., a suburb of Chicago. He was, from 1921 to 1929, president of the Bremer^ TuUy Mfg. Co., and one of the four founders of the Radio Manufacturers Association. At Notre Dame he was a classmate and roommate of Most Rev. John P. O'Hara, C.S.C, D.D.; president of his class ia his freshman, sophomore and senior years; and the promoter and first grand knight of Notre Dame Coun­cil, Knights of Colombus, the first colle­giate cotmdl in the country; and the president of the first college aero club in the country. [They had no plane.] All of whidi indicates that pioneering, as he is in his kind of Catholic book shop, is nothing new to John. . . . And now to his own words.—^Eds.) 
"The Thomas More Library & Book Shop is an experiment in Catholic Action 
(Caatiaiwd oa Pace SI) 

«

ALUMNI CLUBS «t 
CANTON. OHIO Bobert C. Streb, '32, 3210 11th St., S.W., President; Charies A. Kolp. Jr., '38, 4207 Nor& Canton Road, Sectetary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Canton had a benefit arraneement with the Lincoln Theatre in Massillon at the showing of "Knute Rockne-AU American." We sold a special souvenir ticket and filled the place.. It was a tremendous success and our club now boasts a nest egg of about SIOO. 
A number of telegrams were received from Gns DonuB, Rip Bliller, Harry Stnhldrchcr, Stan Cofall. Elmer Layden, and the personal appearance of Don fitiUer with a message to the audience was the highlight of the evening. A number of Rockne's pro-football associates from the old Mas­sillon Tiger team also were in attendance. 
The hardest work was accomplished by our con­genial ' and ambitious secretary, Charles Kolp, Jr. Joseph Rcbillot, the oldest Notre Dame man (class of '91), along vwitfa Alfred Vignos, Sr., gave a lot stories to the boys at the reception following the show held at the Belden Hotel in Canton. 
At the present time I am very busy assisting in the reflection of my employer, tlie county treas­urer. William Waltz, '32, and wife made their first public appearance at the Ohio premiere since the birth of their recent child. 
Robert C. Streb. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) indiMl J. Lcding, '3S. 1047 Gillespie St., Schenectady, President; Edwin W. Kcnefake, '34, 401 Union St., Schenectady, Secretary. There was an excellent attendance at the Ennte Rockne dinner held in Albany on Oct. 3. Dinner was served to €0 couples, who included many out­standing state and civic officials. The program of short talks by alumni and others was a source of many tribute to 'Rock.' 
It was impossible to tag everybody that attended the dinner, hut some of the faces we haven't seen arcund lately belonged to: George Penrose. Nicho­las Amorosa, WiUiam Branigan, James Finn, Raymond Sdiledc, James Drislane, William Alac­key, Chaiies FUnigatn, Larry Weiss, Charles Mag­ner, Joseph Conlon, Pan! Derereanx. Andrew Pindoiey, and Harold Rhodes, 
BGke Leding did a fine job as toastmaster for the occasion. George Krtsfel remarked that he was going to have a 100 per cent attendance rec­ord to all the remaining club functions. It would be well if a lot more had the same idea. Regis UcNamara showed up for the dinner; he is in Albany with the NYA for the time being. 
Brother Kilian, C.S.C., from Valatie. came up for the affair and gave a very interesting talk on Rodaie, as did Jade Hnether and Tom DoUard. BiU Casaxza, the man Hike failed to present at dinner, was largely respon^ble for the success of the dinner. 
Joe O'Kane Is coaching at the Catholic Central High in Troy and he is bragE^ng about the 22 football uniforms he has this year. Charles Uag­ner, Ray ScUecfc and Larry Weiss are with the General Electrc Co. in Schenectady. 
Another innovation in our club's history is that the annual' Christmas Dance will be held in Schenectady instead of Albany. H e dance is on Dec. 27 at the Hotel Van Curler. 
Ed Kenefake. 

The 7940-1941 Alumni Board 

Very Kev. Thomas Steiner, C.S.C, '99, Notre Dam^ Ind  'ojiorary President  
Ray J. Eichenlaub, 15, Columbus, Ohio  President  
Clyde E. Broussard, '13, Beaumont, Te  Tirst Vice-President  
Thomas F. Byrne, '28, Cleveland, Ohio_  -.Second  Vice-President  
James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Ind  ^.^ecretary-Treasurer  
William B. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind—  Assistant  Secretary  
Francis H. McKeever, '03, Chicago,:  Director to  ISil  
Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, IlL.  ^Director to  19it  
John T. Higgins, '22, Detroit, Mich..  director  to  19i3  
William J. Mooney, Jr., '15, Indianapolis, Ind- JHreetor  to 19i4  

Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, DL Joseph H. Mulqueen, '40, Notre Dame, Ind. 

CENTRAL OHIO Louis C Horphr, 'S3, 9$I Sheridan ArCn Colnmbu. Preddent; Alfred O. Vsrier, ts . '2C. 42 E. Gmr St . Cobimbiu, Seeratair-
Mai Elward, Purdue coach, and two of his as* sistants attended the club's party in Hmny Ncster's "Storm Cellar" on Oct. 4, when Kate Smith's broadcast came in from South Bend on the occasion of the Rockne picture premiere. "We all enjoyed one swell evening," according to Al Varicy. Mai and his team were in town to play-Ohio State the next day. 
The club is Iiaving a luncheon in the Univer* sity Club every Monday. 
Adds Varley: "Thanks to the Alumni Office and our own members, we are discovering new mem­bers in our midst and are buildins together a bigger and better-organized Notre Dame Club." 

CHICAGO 
Thomas C. Donovan, '24, 134 S. LaSaOe St . 
President: J. Bany O'Keefe, '32, 111 W. 
Washington, Secretary. 

The Army-Notre Dame dance, in the Palmer House on Nov. 2, was engaging the chief thought of the club when Barry O'Keefe wTOte in mid-Oc­tober. John Clark and Art Conrad were the chair­men of the dance, assisted by Joe Dorffan, Jul O'Keefe. Waller O'Brien, Jerry Cnshins, Emmett Bnrke, Bill Stcinkemper, John Blaloncy, Jade Elder, Tom Grady, BiU Bowes, Ben Oake* and George Demetrio. 
CLEVELAND 
Comelioa J. Roffinr, '32, BolUey BUm^ 
President: Dr. Hyron E. Crawford, '32, De­
troit-Cook Bide., Lakewood, Secretary. 

The most welcome news item heard by theae ears was the return of Tom (Cadillac Pr«ss) Bryne. He has taken np where he left off at Cadillac Press and will be seen at all fntnic Notre Dame functions. 
Speaking of functions. President NidE Raffinc and Chairman Bad Raddatx announce the annual Christmas Dance in Cleveland Saturday, Dec 28. at the StaUer Hotel (that Honuey!). Details will be anounced later. 
Dr. Clarence (Pat) Manlon was heard by many 
-ExrOffieio-Director to 19il' :. J. '.'...LDirectqr to -1941 
Cleveland Notre Damers as he headed a brilliant list of guest speakers at the K. of C. Columbus Day Banquet. 
A select group of Clevelanders, evidently hand­picked by President Ruffing, gathered at Bohr's, Oct 3. to hear the broadcast from South Bend and hold a meeting. Charley Rohr. Jeriy Miller, Bin Van Rooy, AI Lawton, Stan Lecfaowicz, Joe Heininann and myself were Buffing's friends. If you weren't notified of the meeting, call Crom­well-Crooks( MA 3227) and see if your name is on our maling list (I think it is). 
Dr. Beanie Cavender '35, has been in town for two weeks, examining local National Guard offi­cers for physical fitness. Dr. Cavender is stationed at Fort Knox. 
Bob Hackman was recently promoted at the East Ohio Gas Company. 
Dr. Blilt Ebner has put up his boat, after enjoy­ing many summer months of sailing. 
Hosli Ball, '32, our energetic cigar-smoking member, originally from Corbin, Ky., is taking flying lessons. 
Ijician "Luke" Bloom is now eligible for tha Detrot N. D. Club, having married a Detroit girl, and doing advertising business in tliat city. 
Extenave political activity in town threatens to postpone the date of our Football Bally—probably back into late November, but Joe Sweeny says we will have our Bally—and that's that. 
"Does every local alumni club sponsor at least one I^oy Retreat each year?" Hike Crawford. 

DETROIT 
Howanl F. Beecfainor, ex. 'Ot, I30t Union 
Gaatdian BUg., President; Blalcolm F. 
Knaai. '26, 423 Corti* Bide., Secretary. 

Bain held our Oct 14 attendance down to 42 but those who were there certainly enjoyed bragging about the showing of the football team against Georgia Tech on Oct 12. Jay "Biffy" Lee saw bis first Notre Dame football game bx aboat 20 years I guess, and gave his impressions from the viewp(unt of the professional. 
Heaiy Oatfc. who missed last month just after the death of his father, attended the meetins. I learned for the first time that a son Henry. Jr., had arrived Jane 8. E. Laais Chaasaee, chief en­gineer of Industrial Sheet Ketal Works, dropped 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
in Ions enough to have dinner with us. Johnny Brennan has been very busy and I-understand he got a record order for American Blower for equip­ment for the new Ford Aircraft Plant. 
We saw some long lost faces. Art 2immennan was there and Urb Hubert, Tom Thompson, Phil Fetz, and Jack Dyer, who, though badly injured in a serious auto accident, miraculously escat)ed with his life. Incidentally I came out of a bad smash-up two weeks ago without a scratch or bump. Other prodigals included Marion Martin, Gil Sduefer, John Annas, Jerry Nanmann, and Didc Searight. Several 1940 grads who were with us for our opener repeated Monday: Jack Carran, Bill McKenna (and his father), Jim Cleary and Lloyd Barron. 
The Knute Rockne picture opens in Detroit Nov, 1 and we have plans for Detroit Club par­ticipation. Howard Beediinor, Frank McGinnis, Gas Dorais, Ernie Lajoie, and others are working out details. 
First returns were made on ticket activity for the Southern California game and supersalesmen Van Wallace and Charlie Martin were tied in re­sults. They were awarded prizes respectively of an autographed Notre Dame football and a bust of Rockne. 
The annual meeting for election of officers will be held Nov. 18 and a nominating committee has been named including Jack Higgins, Marc Ver­biest. Jack Breen, Jim Foren, Joe Sdirage, Ted Trefzer, Don Carrier, Geo. Hanlon, and Frank McGinnis. Malcolm K. Knaus. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
Francis J. ThraU, ex. 'SI, 317 Bond, N.W., President; George A. Jackoboice, '31 327 Front Ave., N.W., Secretary. 

Election-minded in an election year, the Grand Rapids Notre Dame Club decided on the following officers: president, Frank ThraU; program chair­man, Donald LevandoskI; vice-presidents in charge of activities, Gladstone McDcrmott, Benedict Mc­Ginn, and Robert Linsey; treasurer, Tom Camp­bell; and secretary, George A. Jackoboice. 
Joe Boyland and Jim McDermott retired as president and vice-president, respectively, after serving commendably for the preceding year. 
The meetings, held the first Wednesday of every month, are becomig increasingly popular with the Grand Rapids alumni. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE (Kentucky) 
Joseph L. Rafter. '30, 808 Brooks Bldg., 
Scranton, Pa., President: John J. McNeill, 
*33, 2220 Chestnut St., Secretary. 

Dave Baird sent news of the new Mr. Forsee and the new Miss Welter (see *'Births," this issue) and added the follo\ving: 
"The Notre Dame Bowling League is now in full swing,' though it is still a bit too early to predict with any accuracy just what are the top ranking teams. Needless to say, the boys have a big time on Tuesday nights." 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Aogast L. Bond!. *S0, Mcttvpolitan Life Ina. 
C&, Km. 207, 157 N. HUnoU St., Preddent; 
Elbert W. Mahoney. '2C, 393S Central Ave., 
Secretary. 

The Indianapolis club celebrated the local open­ing of "Knute Rockne, All American," with a theater party and supper dance. The latter at the Sapphire Room in the Washington Hotel. About 50 couples attended and all seemed to enjoy both events on the program though some wives and g.fs. were heard to complain they had difficulty in pulling their escorts away from reminiscences stimulated by the picture and out on the dance floor. 
For the success of the program we are indebted to the committee in charge consisting of: Clyde Bowers, Al Feeney, BiQ Fox, Bill Holland, Leroy Keach, Charley Mason—chairman, John McM^Mn, Joe McNamara, Fred MahafTey, Walter StoU­dreher, Tom Umphrey and Leo Welch, Jr. 
Next on the program is the Indianapolis Club special train to the Iowa game. We plan a real northward migration Nov. 16. El Blahoney. 
JOLIET. ILLINOIS 
aarence W. Wilhelml, ex. '21. 9W Onciaa St., President; Edward H. Kin*. Spcdal. 301 Ruby St , SecreUry. 

Oct. 3 we celebrated with a six o'clock dinner at Feely's Ranch with 25 members present. At 
7:30 we went to the club rooms and listened to the campus broadcast, after which the evening was spent informally—some at the round table, pool, billiards, etc. 
Charles Lennon, vice-president of P. G. Lennon Co.. accompanied by Mrs. Lennon, had a two-week visit in Cleveland and the St. Clair Flats. 
We welcome to Joliet a new member, Francis Joseph Martin, *36, who has been moved from New York to this district by the Texas Company. Best wishes to both Frank and Mrs. Martin. 
Larry Donda reported having a glorious time on his visit to the Rockies. Ed King. 
KANSAS CITY, (Missouri-Kantms) 
John J. O'Connor, '34, 4133 Hercier St., Kansas City. Mc, Pre^dent; Nornun M. Bowes. '33, 5525 Rockhill Road,K8nsu City. Mo., Secretary. 

The Kansas City Club held its first meeting of the fall season, Oct. 3. at the Fred Harvey Pine Room. Forty-five alumni and friends gathered for a program of entertainment that included a reception of the Rockne premiere broadcast and the screening of some entertaining film shorts. Among the welcome new faces at the gathering were: Vince Dc Coursey, Harold Haynea. Jim Higgins, Ernest Slaurin, George McLiney, Gene Murray, Joe Reedy, George Reinhardt, J(An Schmidt, Tom Tobin, Jim Metzler, Tom Reardon. and Pete Vaughn. 
Recent losses from our ranks include: Eramett Conkling, '34, transferred to Lexington with the Missouri Highway Department; Paul Donigan, '36, to Buffalo. N. Y., with some wholesale grocery firm; John Fry, '36, to Newton, Kans,, with the Santa Fe Railroad; Joe 0*Dowd, to Forth Worth, Texas. 
Blake Smith, Bob Tyler, Vince De Coorscy and Dan Foley, among others, drove up to the Georgia Tech fireworks display. About 100 fans from this vicinity plan to see the Iowa clash at Notre Dame, Nov. 16. 
We are informed that Graham Owens, '37, now a senior at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School, has been elected to Alpha Omega Alpha, national honorary medical fraternity. 
One of our enthusiastic supporters-is Hr. YfilV­iam Hayes who drove 70 miles from Atchison, Kansas, to the last meeting with news of his son. Jade Hayes, who is a crack contender for the Layden quarterback post. 
The date of the next meeting is tentatively set for the middle of December. We should like to encourage more parents of the alumni and stu­dents to turn out: at the October gathering we noted among others, Messrs. De Coarsey, Hayes. Kopp, Marshall, and O'Connor. 
Norman BC Bowes. 

LOS ANGELES 
Gkmrin & Gunk I*. UlS CMan, KsITI Bulk BUc, LM ii^ihi^ FrulJMt; Ifaitta 
B. IMr. tx. "U. Ul D«Bihw An^ W. Lw AnsdM. Swictur. 

We held a dinner at the Hona Usa restaurant for our pare in the celebration of Boekne Ni^t , Due to conflicts on the time out here there was no broadcast available Imt ttmragh the Idndnesa of Warner Bros, we were able to get a war record of the broadcast and tliat was was played to the meeting. It was as good as a broadcast to those who attended the meeting. 
We had over a third of the total membership there and over half of the ones who are at ail active. We had places set up for 155 and had nearly all of them taken, 
Lt. Jack Kennedy, TJ.S. Navy, (who was so taken with "Boclc's" idea of clean living and act­ing as the basis of all decent life that he has been preaching the idea far and wide since he first heard Rockne speak along that line), was our toastmasteri Howard Jones the ir.S.C. coach talked, as did Joe Scott, and several of the men from the "Herald-Express" and the "Examiner" sports departmenti that had known Rodme. And we had some songs and talks from the crowd at Warner Bros., Dennis Morgan supplying the sing­ing. The major part of the program was in­scribed on a record by Warners and you may have heard it back at school by now. 
The crowd was so big that I did not get around to see all the boys and only can refer to a few. who were there. Tlie Scotts were represented by Joe ScoU and Judge A.A. Scott. Edwin I,. Kane who was back there 'I^'IT was among those pres­ent, and the list also included Tom Bdand. Frank Bany, David Beniard. J. W. Kelly, who can re­member St. Edward's Hall before the '90s. Frank Gmter. Eocene Kennedy, and his brother. Lan­rence, Jinr Hakncy, Laiiy Ott. Sweeney Tadc. Paal TazaU, Bion Voce], Dr. James Warcin, F. 
H. Breen. Chark, Canig, Geeise Meeker. Jafai Winterkottom. Jakn Rider, and many others. 
Jim HcCabe. our vice-president, and Ed Aike closed the party when the hour waxed late and Tern Ashe, and Ben Alexander were among those who had to head home earlier. Blarty Bril] and Back Shaw were supposed to come but the neces­sities of football coaching kept both of them away. It was one of the finest parties we have had oat hete in a long time. 
We lost one of our members out here, WiUs Lasher, who has gone to Pensacola as part of the Navy crowd. We gained one in the person of George Wagner, which helps make it up. Other shifts are going on all the time, I suppose, but these two are here on my files as of tiiis month. 
We started the weekly meetings for Inneh on Oct. 11 and will hold them every week at the Clark Hotel, Friday noon, at least 'til the team has taken care of S.G. Those lunches get more popular as the football season advances. 
We are going to have the stag smoker the night before the game and the dinner dance the ni^ t ­of the game day, as has been the custom every year the team heads our way. Also, we are plan­ning one more evening dinner early in November to aeeommodate the boys who can't make it for the lunches. 
J. Alhert Terrikia has done a swell job for as in conneetian with the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine meeting. The class of '38 can be proud of him. He got our crowd tickets for the ini­portant events in a groop and was-a bedded help to til* general oommittee for the event so that . Notre Dame is registered as one of the really active Gstholie groups in this area. Oar thanks to him. Marty Ddy. 
MEMPHIS Doimdl MeCormmdc. '36, 196 E. Parkway, S^ President; Bailer Walih, ex. '27, Colom­bian Mataal Tower, Secretary* 
I am pleased to reiKirt the results of our partici­pation in the world premiere of "Knute Rockne-All American." We had a dinner at the Variety Club -which saw a ereat gatherine of all Notre Dame men. Jerty Foley, Donnell McCormack, &L 
J. McCormsdc, C P. J. Blooney, Austin Hall, Gar­land Frannoli, P. A. HcPhillips, Frencfay Dohosne attended, toBether with a large number of other of our members. 
Ed IfeGhee of Louisville, &. , was in town, and he helped celebrate the occasion. 
We were honored with the presence of several of the outstandinjc sports writers, in our com­munity, tosether with an outstanding film critic, in this community, Harry Hartin. After the ban­quet, we were invited to see the picture, as guests of Warner Brothers' Theatre here in Memphis. 
As is customary, about this time, our Club, in conjunction with the Irish Society of Memphis, plans a trip to one of the football games. Hiis year we are going by special train, to South Bend for the Iowa game. We will have at least 75 X}eople. 
We are very distressed, as a Club, with the recent death of Hugh Magevney, father of one of our good alumni. Bailey Walsh. 
MILWAUKEE Eari HcCamm, '25, Home Owners Loan Cerp^ Prerident; John E. Clander, '34, 1219 
W. VUet St , SccreUry. 
Hie new officers have chosen their Board of IKrectors for the coming season: Fast President John Batfce, a proud father; the recently married Dan ll^ally; Dsd Pearson (we are sorry to hear his wife was injured in a Chicago auto accident); popular Cad Pidc of West Bend; young Bob San­ford and dynamic Jim WIteelsr. Yours truly was appointed scribe for the year. 
Club activity has been planned to cover a wide range of interests. Eadi Thursday noon a lunch­eon group meets at the Maryland Hotel. A monthly dinner is being considered for the benefit of the ladies as well as the boys. A Football Bally, dated Oct. 31, will highlight early fal events. Door prizes will be a lure Last year's winner, John Brast, went to Notre Dame to see the South­ern Cal game. 
Our presdent. Eari HcCarron, was married in ^ywmrd. Wis., since the last writing.-7-in fact on Labor Day. Margaret O'Brien was her name. Jerry Fox, formerly located here in Milwaukee, was the best man. Jerry, we understand is now practicing law at Chilton. His sister, Jean, married Dan HcNally in the Log Chapel on Oct. 16. 

John Martin was nominated for attorney gen­eral of the State of Wisconsin on the Bepnblican ticket. Hartin Joe Brennan received a sweeping . r.umber of votes in bdng nominated for our dis­
trict attorney on the Democratic ticket. 
We hear that Ker. Leo Ward, CS.C, was in town to give an address to the Catholic Farent-Teaehers association. Brother Jacob, CS.C, was moved from the school at Watertown to the local institotion. St. Charies Boys Home, located in our Bobuxb, West AlUs. 
We aee John Msddfn and Freeman Fitzgerald over at the l«ridi dinrch. John Corrigan lives niearby, bat he woes to the "early" Mass. His brother, Jia , Is studying at the Jesuit seminary near St.* Lools. 
Some of the bogrs bnmped into Dave Fioehlidi the other day. He is manager of M.A. Wagner's bakery. Bob Jaynes was visiting in town, aftef a trip from his home in New Yark. John Vois, the local head of the Secret Service, is now on leave doing extensive traveling. John needs a rest after his many talks on "Counterfeiting." 
I.ast week the Milwaukee papers carried a_ swell picture of John Boadi, who bosses the Wisconsin State Beverage Tax Division. From the story we gather he is a busy man. 
These many travelers make good business for Norb Backes who is working for Wadhams Gasc^ line Company. Jade Shodron has given up teach­ing and is in the Madison office of the same company. 
Announcements in many of our local societies have come from Dr. Dnndotu It seems he is pro­moting a Sunday morning series of lectures on Thcmistic philosophy. 
Flash news reports state that Balph Clark is a new father. John Prentiss was married during the last month. There were many line about it in the papers but no details ere available at the moment. Paol Bnut. 
MINNESOTA 
Frank Mayer, '27, Korthem States Power Co., S t Put , President: GMrge McDcraott. 714 New York Bldg.. S t PMI , Secretary. 
The club held its first smoker for the fall season at Schmidt's Rathskeller in St. Faul on Oct 3. After a steak dinner the members listened to the national broadcast preliminary to the premiere of the iCnnte Rodme picture. The program came in very clear, and we all got a thrill out of listening to the ceremonies down there at South Bend. 
The dub will meet again on Nov. 6 at the Town and Country Club. 
Robert L. Kaye lost his father, Charles L. ^ye , on Sept 17; and William £. Boeringer, father of Arthur B. (Bud) Boeringer, died Oct 6. The dub was represented at both funerals. 
Geo. Thomas McDermott 
MOHAWK VALLEY (N. Y.) 
Lester Lovier, '26, C04 N. Madison SU Rome, President; Edward J. Sweeney, 'if, 1415 BliUer St , Utica, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of the Mohawk Val­ley will hold a meeting on Thursday evening, Nov. 21. at the City Club, Utica. Ibis is located on the comer of Genessee and Pearl streets, up­stairs. We invite alumni from Boonville, Oneonta. Rome, Bion, Herkimer, lattle Falls, Waterville and nearby vidnities. 
We had a dandy meeting Oct 3. There were 20 in attendance. E. J. Sweeney. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Howard Parker, '17, 219 State Bldg,, San Frandsce, President; Eohert L. McDonald. 'SO, 1032 Ardmore Av e Oakland, Secretary. 
We of Northern California are unable to meet except on outstanding occasions due to the dis­tances most of US have to travel to reach San Frsndsco. We do expect to gather for the annual bradcast of the Notre Dame-Army game on Nov. 2 and we are confident of a nice "turn-out" 
Back Shaw, coach of Santa Clara, is taming out one of his better teams tiiis year, and is recog­nized by sport writers here as being one of the nation's finest coadies. Marchmont Sdiwarts, at Stanford, is also doing notable work in asdsting Clark Shanghnessy and is deserving of a great deal of credit for that comeback. 
Rohcrt V. Danne, writing under the name of Don Glendon, is doing a swell job of reporting inride football for the Fadfic Coast and he is to bo commended for all the fine publidty he is able to give Notre Dame in his column, and he does menage to insert quite a bit of the same. 
Bob McDonald. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Bokert A. HaaUIton, '28, 63 WaU St . Pros-
Idcnt; Pa d MahekUc, ex. "35, C.Y.O.. 485 
Hafison Ave^ Secretary. 
Wyeth Williams, famed newscaster of the Motnal System, who has a confidential inside source of news from Europe, kept one of the largest gatherings of the dub spdibound with o£F­the-record inside information on Oct 3. He fore­casta the following month (April, 1941) instead of Ides of March, as the traditional month for our entry Into the present conflict 
We also enjoyed the broadcast from the Uni­versity on that evening, and "we didn't have In­diana on onr mind" but Georgia "Tedi," Carnegie "Tech," Northwestern, etc 
Wanca Fagd, (the budding Angus McDonald), has set up headquarters in the Commodore Hotel for the Navy trip. - With his tongue in his cheek he warns alumni to get thdr sawbuck (a ten tivot to most of us) in before Nov. 7 for the Navy game. Hiis tariff includes return RJ t fare, price of the dncat for the game plus free air and advice to and from the game. (Jade Hoyt Jr., will settle any argumenta for a price.) 
The "Knnte Bockne—All American" premiere preview was an exclosive for dub members at the Hbtd Commodore on Oct 16. Once again the gang tamed oat en masse with their wives, in­tendeds and friends. A small net was realized for dub activities. The officers, board of governors and alomni are deeply appreciative of the splendid co-operation with Wamer Brothers, the producers of this epic classic, and the New York City office of Warner's. 
Jim ReiDy of Wilson Sporting Goods, New York City, took the final mile several months ago. Jim doesn't wear that distant look, but experiences diffiealties in getting excosed for meetings. 
To thooe of yon who recdve and read the daily rdis^ons bulletin should re-resd the Oct 7 issue —^"An Ahxmnas Makes Good." Eternity's goal ecnld be made much easier if other altunni would join the ranks of Notre Dame men who are doing their bit for the yoongsters in thdr parish diardies. There are always vacandes for volnn­teera to do God's work for His little ones. We're grateful to Father Lynd^ the prefect of religion, for his occasional eommerdals which have helped OS in oar work with youth. 
A personal bow to "My Girl Friday"—Dolly Dolan—whooe two brothers Joe and Jim. N.D. men, think she's a full fledged alumna now. 
Paol Mshoichlc 
OKLAHOMA 
Jooeph A. LaFartaM, ex. '18, Nafl Bank 

•f TmSam Bldg.. Tkba. Prcsideat; Cari J. Se^er. '87, 12M & dwyaut, Talsa. See­vetaiy* 
Ihe weddinc bells are still rinsinr in the "Oil Owital of tiie Wmld." Ibis time it is for Bokert 
M. Scsfiisd, 'S7. Bob w u married to Kiss Betty Bdbritli of Detroit on Oct. 14, at the 
Sacrament Chntdi. Bob was royally en­tertained before departing for Detroit Besides the emtaoanr staar. Bob was favored at a kitchen diower and. tram what I hear, he was really edn­eatad br tka faber sex in the use of flie gifts. We all wUk ytn and Betty a bri^t and happy future. Omt tDod friend Jadce T. D. I«MS , past leetorer at tlie University, again scores a hit in "The Comonweal" of Sept. 20, 1940, unde the title of "Preparedness—1890." It is a remarkable story of the struggle of the Sioux Nation in the Da­kotas, the untimely death of the leader of the Sioux Indians, Sitting Bull, and how the Governor of the Dakota Territory chose guns and ammuni­tion instead of 100,000 rations. 

Tulsa is one • short of having a four horsemen representation in the coaching field. But never­theless the three former Notre Dame athletes are doing a nice job of coaching at the three local high schools. They are, Marion J. Blake, '32. Holy Family Cathedral, Pat Halloy. '37, Cascia Hall, and Joe McNnlty, '37, Marquette. I'll let you guess what happens when the teams meet ench other. 
Hillis Bell, ex. '24, has moved with his family to Okmulgee, Okla., where he is associated with the local broadcasting station. We are sorry to see you leave Tulsa. 
Carl 3. Senger, '37, is now associated with the Warren Petroleum Corporation of Tulsa. 
Carl J. Scngei. 

PHILADELPHIA 
William A. A. Caitellinl. '22. Franklin In­ititate. Parkway at 20tli. PreiidtBt! B. Bradley Bailey, ex. '23, 26» S. Broad St^ Secretary. 

Through the sponsorship of a dinner on Oct. 3 honoring the memory of Knate Rockne, Notre Dame men of Philadelphia collaborated with War­ner Brothers in the local preview of "Knute Rockne—All American." The affair, attended by dignitaries of church, state, education, industry, finance and sports, stimulated anew the interest of Notre Dame men in their own local organiza­tion. 
William A. A. CastelUni, '22, president of the club, presided at the speakers' table. Rev. Ber­nard C Farley, chaplain of the club, said grace and paid tribute to Knnte Rockne. The toastmas­ter was John H. Neeson, '03, director of public works, in Philadelphia, the founder of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Speakers were Mathias J. Moe. Norwegian Con­sul at Philadelphia, who paid tribute to "Rockne, Son of Norway;" Joaeph Farrell. Gamp Hill, Pa., 
•15, district govenor of the Alumni Association, who spoke on "Rockne, the Student and Class­mate;" Maurice J. "Clipper" Smith, head coach of Villanova College and national president of the Notre Dame Monogram Club, who spoke on "Rockne, the Coach;" Joseph W. Wear, chairman of the Republican Unance Committee of the State of Pennsylvania and president of the Philadelphia Racquet Club, who spoke on "Rockne, the Friend:" Col. Vincent A. Carroll, papal chamber-Iain, and assistant district aattomey of Pliiladel­phia. who paid a tribute to "Rockne, the Ctiien." A message of regret was received from Most Rev. Hugh L. Lamb, auxiliary bishop of Philadelphia. 
Other distinguished guests serving on the dinner committee were: Hon. Eugene V. Allessandroni, Judge of Ooort of Common Pleas No. 5, Philadel­phia: Hon. Charles Amodei, secretary. Registra­tion Commission, city of Philadelphia: E. Bradley Bailer: Bert Bell, director and head coach. Phila­delphia Eagles; Rev. Terence A. Brady, director of Catholic Youth Association of Philadelphia: Everett C. Callow, director of publicity, Warner Brothers, Philadelphia: George W. Casey, director. Big Brothers Association, FUladelphia. 
Hon. Wank Claik, United States Senator from Idaho: J. A. Corey, assistant general manager, domestic sales, Tlie Atlantic Refinins Co.: HanU Duke, Wayne Pump Co.; Benjamin Eshleman, president of Benjamin Eshleman Co.; Joseph P. Gallagher, postmaster of Philadelphia; Walter Halas, director of athletics and football coach, Drexel Institute: Dr. Norman Hall, FUladelphia Chamber of Commerce; John H. Harrington, as­sistant treasurer. Beneficial Saving Fund Society and President of Philopatrian Club. 
Councilman William M. Hollenback, coecb. Penn State, 1912; John F. Horstman, director of Philo-' patrian; John B. Kelly, chairman. Democratic City Executive Committee; Harry S. McDevitt, President, Judge Court of Common Pleas No. 1, Philadelphia: Ray Morrison, director of athletics. Temple University; Grover W. Mueller, director of physical education, Philadelphia Public Schools: George Munger, football coach. University of Pennsylvania; Lawson Robertson, University of Pennsylvania track coach and Olympic track coach: Charles W. Smith, judge of Court of Com­mon Pleas, No. 5; John J. Sullivan, vice-presi­dent and trust officer. Market Street National Bank, and president of Philadelphia Laymen Week-end Retreat League: H. Brichard Taylor, director of Cramp Shipyard, and president of the Sandlots Sports Association; Oliver Twist, title officer, Frankford Trust Co., and governor of the Philadelphia Moose; Daniel H. Young, 22. 
Good old Cliff Prodchl who did such a fine job on reporting—hands the following to your re-' porter—Cliff has a nose for the news, as you can well see. ' 
Bill Castcllini can take more than a bow for the bang-up job that he did on the event of the dinner in honor of Rock. 
Top honors for bringing a crowd went to Dan Young who packed the Ritz Carlton- Ballroom. Well over 300 taxed the ballroom to capacity. The blue and gold trimmed back-drop with a mammoth picture of Rock in the monogranmied sweater of student days and the flower-decked speakers' table with a riot of autumnal colors gave the perfect setting. 
"Chief Neeson (we just can't get used to that Director business), as toastmaster,. pulled a quar­terback sneak in limiting the speakers and in so doing won the undying devotion of us all. Bill Castellini read a telegram from Ed Bailey who had to leave to\vn owing to the untimely death of his father-in-law. Judging from the way Ed's mesage went over, Ed should write pep talks. Are ya listening. Eshelman? (plug to the Boss). 
After the picture and reception of the broadcast from the campus. Powers (jouraud, a widely know commentator of KCAU, interviewed such personages as Olympic Rowing Champion Jack Kelly; George Munger, and Lawson Robertson; Walt Halas and several others. We were sorry that illness prevented Senator Worth Clark and Bert Bell from attending but were glad to see Councilman Big Bill Hollenback and Ray Morri­son, new Temple U. mentor. We can distinctly remember an afternoon in late 1930 when Ray had his S3f.U. team up from Texas that we couldn't honestly make the above statement. Among the other faces that we were glad to see were Bin Nolan. Perc Connelly. Charlie McKin­ney and Vince HcNaHy. (Met Ray BIcNally on the 15th Street later, he said it was so jammed that he couldn't get in.) 
This would not be complete without a spedal toot on the horn for. Hatvid Dvke and Everett Callow of Warner Brothers and St. f^ancii of Brooklyn who did such excellent work in making the party the success it was. To show my per­sonal appreciation I'm gonna sell them dumees on our drawing outa my book at a discount: 
Ed Balky. 

RHODE ISLAND & S. W. CONN. 
Jafai J. McljifcliM. "U, Mnim BMd. 
CuAcriuid HUI. B. I , PiaUeat; BMSIB 
L. Bnt. '». 45 Ob St, WaniMket. K. L. SccictaiT. 

At s meetins'of the dob held last June in Batter's Diner, Pkwtoeket, officers for the year were elected as follows: Jsln J. MfljwgklJB. '34, of Cumberland WU, preudent; Easeac Haitaa. '32, Fawtucket, viee^resident: Le* Mr ^Issn. 'SO. treasurer :Jshii Brady. '34. Pawtoeket. finnnrial secretary; and KasscU L. Hamt, '39. Woonaocket. recording secretary. Named to the board of direc­tors were: Aadnw MrMih—. '35. Fawtucket; Carltsn MscJsajsl. '38, Cranston; and !%••>* CSIBM^ '28. Fall River, Mass. Jokn HeKieraaa. '34. Providence: Eari Biaw>. '39. Prarideiiee. and Mr. McAloon were named a eonstitntion com­mittee. 
At another session held in the Narrangansett Hotel, Providence, Sept. 14 plans were made to honor Frank L. Walker. '09, new postmaster gen­eral, and the Ker. Vincent L. Maaiiey. C.S.C.. '16. national director of Catholic youth activities, at s banqnet to be held sometime in November. Plans were also formed for the celebration of "Knuta Rockne Week." 
A cash donation was voted in regard to a plaa recaved fnan the Ker. Fatridi DafCr. CS.C.. '31. who is stationed at a parish in Texas. Father Daffy is a former member of the club. 
Oct. 9, the group met again in Butler's Diner for a banquet to open the festivites for their celebration of "Knate Rockne Week." Oct. 11 tha club attended the opening showins of the pictnre, "Knute Rockne. Ail-American," in a Providence theatre. President MrTanghlin addressed the amB­ence between shows. Daring the week-end celebra­tion Notre Dame blankets were on display in several downtown Providence hotels. 
Kasscn L. Hani. 

ROCHESTER 
Fraak X. CauwIIy. ex. '34. M4 N. Goedaua. PreaUeBt: Jeka F. Harlcy. '37. MIS CSB ­
•erce BIdr.. II* Maia St.. Secntary. 

New officers elected for the coming year ara Fiands CaaaaOy. president: Lawrence Carpenter, vice-president: CleraM Farrdl. treasurer, and the writer, secretary. 
At the election meeting plans were discossad for the events to aeeompany the opening of "^ot e Rockne—All American" in Bodiester on Oct. 24. I was appranted to head a committee to take charge of these arrangements and to repre­sent our new pretident who, as this is written, is oat of town on his honeymoon. 
Of the 1940 gradaates fmra this area I have this information. Bmt Gcataer is woridng with Gen­eral Mills in Buffalo: Harry Bsisrert is at Catho­lie Unhrnsity taldns law. while Jerry FlyBB is not permanently located. Wa wdeome two new raenbers to the ahumi groop. Hartia MeCsnddi, originallr fron Chicago and now with flw New York State Electric aand Gaa in Geneva, and Bay DaBey, formeriy of Cleveland, now sUte acent f<v a large liaUIity insoranes eoeopany. 
Jack Hailsy. 

ST. LOUIS 
Dr. Bcitnrt D. CaiwUh, "M, 77N CMBtiy Chk CMil; l-rsiliiat; Aftcrt J. Bavaitaaw '35, 4(51 Shaw St, Secniaiy. 

Chib Bcadieis and their female partnos wen enlurtalned hy Statioa KMOX on Oct. 4 thmoA tha eo-«veratkm and •pansenliip of Hany Blaa­w»n of the station staff. n^Iisdit was Oa i». 
ception of the Kate Smith program from South Bend. Other entertainment features were eener­ously provided by the station and dinner was scr\'ed in the studio by Jane Porter and her Masic Kitchen. 
Harry Flaxuiery has since been honored with one of the Columbia Broacasting System's most difficult posts—representative in Berlin. He left on the Clipper in mid-October and will be heard from Germany in the near future. 
ST- JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Loais V. Brm;E:ner, '23, 129 W. Jefferson* Sooth Bend, President; Clarence Harding, *25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend. Sec­retary. 
With such distinguished spealfcrs as Coach Bill Alexander, of Georgia Teach; Elmer Laydo , Henry McLemore, famous United Press sports writer, and O. B. Keeler of Atlanta, the pre-game smoker season went into high gear. These sport celebrities, together with the Old Timers and 150 others, were guests of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley at the Georj^a Tech smoker, held Friday night, Oct. 11. in the Bronzewood Room of the Hotel LaSalle. Paul »L Butler, act­ing as master of ceremonies, cleverly introduced the headline speakers and many a Notre Dame great of former years who attended the Old 'Kmers dinner. Movies of the Notre Dame-College of the Pacific game, which was played the pre­ceding Saturday, were shown. Harrison H. Crockett did an excellent job as chairman of the affair. Assisting him were Frank Harrington, Joseph Lanber, Harry Richwinc, Callix Miller and James Median. 
Edward Everett was chairman of the Carnegie Smoker, held on the night preceding the Carnegie Tach game, Oct. 19. Assisting him were Paul Fergus. Forrest Hazen. Charles Hafron, Joseph Qninlan. Eugene Knoblock, Daniel Youngerman and Jack Shively. 
Plans for the Iowa Smoker, on Nov. 15, indi­cate one of the best programs of the year. Willard Wagner is chairman of the affair. All returning alumni are cordially invited to attend these pre­game smokers. 
Members of the club were active in the arrange­ments of the -world premiere of "Knute Rockne, AH American" which was held in South Bend Friday evening, Oct. 4. Bernard J. VoU, honorary president of the club, did a masterful job as gen­eral chairman of all premiere activities. Tom Hickey, Sr., was chairman of the Premiere Ball which was held in the Palais Royale following the premiere. Frank Miles, Al McGann, Harold Wcbcr and Bill Sheehan assisted the civic committee with arrangements for the banquet held in the Notre Dame Dining Hall on the night preceding the premiere. Chock Sweeney was chairman of the transportation committee, whose job it was to get the movie stars to their various engagements. 
Clarence W. Harding. 
TRI-CITIES (IlUnoU-Iowa) 
Georce W. Vander Vennet. *32, 622 Union Bank Bid?., 3rd & Brady Sts., Davenport, Iowa, President; Edmund J. Meaner, '21, 2153 30tfa St., Rock Island. HL. Secretary. 
The Tri-City Notre Dame Club bad a successful dinner-meeting on Oct. 4. in which we had the ladies join us. TTie purpose of the dinner meeting was to listen in on the broadcast of the Vox Pop program from the lobby of the Oliver Hotel, and to hear the broadcast of the banquet from the Dining Hall. 

"Without an exception, everyone in attendance had a tear in their eye after Pat O'Brien made his talk at the banquet. We all wanted to hear more from P!at because without a doubt, he cer­tainly had assimilated in his personality a certain reminiscent to our minds of the Spirit of Notre Dame. 
My wife and I saw the local premiere of "Knute Rockne, All American" on Oct 11. Between shows, Harry StnMdreher of Wisconsin, and Larry "Moon" Mollins of St. Ambrose talked. The re­marks of both of these boys were received with thundering applause. The spotlight was given to Harry, and he did not leave anything wanting. The man is not only a marvelous orator, but his ability to get his point across with the use of the nicest English made him a very welcome person­ality in the eyes and minds of thousands of local paople. 
Our good friend. Moon Alullins. is doing a very fine job here at St. Ambrose and has sold himself so thoroughly to the populace that his sportsman­ship and cleanliness are reflecting very favorably on the University. George Vander Vennet. 
TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Hengesbacfa, ex. *27, P. O. Box 533, President; Ted A. Wltz, ex. '29, Box C28, Secretary. 
Another year passed and some of the old mem­bers have moved from Tucson leaving the club much smaller. We are, however, trying to keep up interest with the group still here. A new­comer is John T. Sexton, '33, of Indianapolis, who has come to spend the winter. His friends may be glad to know that his address while in 'Dicson will be: 2115 East Speedway. 
We would like to hear from any fellows around this district who are not at present affiliated with other clubs. More interest may be stirred up if we have a large number of men who are will­ing to be active in get-togethers, etc. Kindly let us know. Ted Witx. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
George J. SdiiU, '27, Monldpal Garare & Repair Shop, Expo. Bldg., Doqnesne Way, Pittsburgh, President; Rev. Vincent P. Bren­nan. '32, St. Peter's Rectory, 814 Western St., Tarentom, Secretary. 
The club had a special preview of the Rockne picture in the Stanley Theatre, Pittsburgh, on Oct, 10 for the 1>enefit of the club scholarship fund. A report on this activity is promised for next month, if the lads can get that Came^e Tech score out of their minds long enough to write. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Andrew Aoth, '34, 405 6th St.. S.W., Presi­dent; Carl G. Christianson. '31, 4478 Con­duit Road, Secretary. 
As a result of the meeting of Oct. 8 at the Hamilton Hotel, a round of new officers came in. They are as follows: Andrew Aoth. president: John E. Ryan, first vice-president; Leo Hollin, second vice-president; Carl Christianson, secre­tary ; Ray Deely, treasurer; John Dndez, sergeant-at- arms; Father R. H. Sweeney, chaplain. 
Also there is a new Board of Governors, com­posed of Arthur Bergman, Ambrose O'Connell, Frederick William Wile, and Charles Farrts. (Ambrose 0*Cbnnell, who has been ill. is up and about now.) 
I know some of the lads are looking forward to a bang up week-end come Nov. 9 and the Navy joust. Carl G. Christianson. 
GRADUATE NEWS 
Robert J. Thomas, 231 W. 14th St, Wilminv­
ton. Delaware. 
The Graduate News column in the "Alumnus" is going to be like a lottery: we've got to have winners. We can. of course, keep inserting news about the men here in Wilmington but we'd like to hear from others. A contribution in the form of news from any or pertaining to any ex-grad student will receive attention. 1*11 guarantee a personal reply to any correspondence. All former members of the cafeteria's 7:50 a.m. breakfast club are requested to drop a line. It is hoped that among others Georce Foss, Gcorce McHorrow, Ross Gray, Charlie O'Boyle, Al Kolka, Jim BIc-Kenna. Paol Sartoretto, Bill Fitzegerald. Cliff Mihm, Harold Goebel, Lee Moorman, Joe Krieger, Georce Wolf, Harry Wanderly and Mike O'Connor will take pen in hand. Also, Fred Weber and Marc Geerts might reply to outstanding letters from this address. 
Active in the Catholic Diocesan Alumni Associa­tion of Wilmington, Del., is Donald Killian who received his Fh.D. from Notre Dame in 1936. Don is chairman of the association's memiiership com­mittee and is doing a fine job. TTie association is composed of former Catholc college men and practically all of the Notre Dame men are in line. 
Ed Bried and I took in the American Associa­tion football game between the Newark Bears and the Wilmington Clippers this past Sunday. Despite the fine playing of Harry Stevenson, '40, at.left half for the Bears, his club lost 13 to 7. 
PHOTOGRAPHy "RACKET" 
The Alumni Office has received many queries from alumni apparently im­pressed by solicitations for photographs to be used in the ALUMNUS or the alumni records. 
Notre Dame, like many other leading colleges and universities, has had an understandmg wt h the Central News and Photo Service that if and when this company photographed alumni, entirely on a commercial basis and at the discre­tion of the alumnus, a free print was to be sent to the Alumni Office for the files or for use in the ALUMNUS upon occa­sion. In return for this, lists of alumni have been furnished infrequently to the company with the imderstanding that no high pressure was to be employed. 
The use of any appeal of urgency or any commitment as to need or use of the picture by the Alumni Association has never been granted to the company, or the affiliated agencies which it is more recently emplojring. 
As a matter of act, since the situation is becoming more embarrassing than helpful, Notre Dame is going to leave the company of many distinguished col­leagues, and recommend, as has been necessary in the case of magazine solici­tors, that alumni pay no attention to such Notre Dame claims. 
GREGORIAN CHOIR 
A Gregorian choir is being formed at the University under the suprvision of Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, who will be assisted by Rev. John Gallagher, 
C.S.C. The choir is already rehearsing and will number about 35 voices. 

» »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Miss Glady Rejer and Ridiard A. Ganser, '39, of Mishawaka, Ind. 
Miss Doris E. Vachon and Rnssell L. Hunt, '39» . of Woonsocket, R. I. 
Marriages 
Miss Anne Augusta Tremel and William J. Furey, '23, were married. Sept. 21» in Misha­wnkn, Ind. 
The mnrrta^ of Miss Patricia Curtis Anderson and Edffar J. Bbtt, '30, took place Sept. 14, in Cleveland. 
Miss Catherine Patricia Doyle and Leonard F. Horan, *31, were married, Oct. 12. in Albany. 
N. Y. 
Miss Harriet Ann Wilson and Paul L. O'Toole, '32. were married, Oct. 5, in ChicaKO. 
The marriage of Miss Blanche Elvera Robillard and Georffe W. Calhoun. '34. took place Sept. 21, in Elmhurst, III. 
Miss Pauline Sainton and Bernard L. Ensiish, 'G5. were married, Oct. 12, in Toledo. 
Miss Martha Dennis and Philip H. Kirley, '35. were married. Sept. 17, in Kewanee, III-
The marriage of Miss Dolores Hayden and Jchn Neeson, Jr., '35, took place Oct. 12, in Philadelphia. 
Miss Germaine B. Thilman and Henry E. Den­lUer, '35, were married, Oct. 12. in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. 
Miss Eileen Veronica Patterson and Albert D. Carey, '36, were married. Sept. 17, in Jackson Heights, L. I., N. Y. 
Miss Dorothy M. Gross and Arthur V. Kerns, '36, were married, Oct. 5. in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen A. Wills and George R. McNeile. '3C, were married, Oct. 19, in South Bend. Nor­bert P. Unnes, '37. served as best man. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Simko and John 
M. Pilarski, *36, took place. Oct. 12, in South Bend. 
Miss Anne Raiinski and Milton Bock. '37. were married. Sept. 28, in South Bend. 
Miss Betty Agnes Helferith and Robert if. Siegfried, *37, were married, Oct. 14. in Detroit. 
Hie marriage of Miss Eileen Carroll and John 
A. O'Leary, '38, took place. Sept. 14, in Chicago. 
Miss Julia Moore and Alfred A. Howard, ex. '39. v:er€ married. Sept. 21, in South Bend. 
llie marriage of Miss Alice Evelyn. Pine and Cornelius J. Kvasnalc. '39. took place Oct. 19, in the Log Chapel. Notre Dame. Greg Rice, '39, served as best man. 
The marriage of Miss Carlotta Lagorio and John A. McGuire. '39. took place, Sept. 6. in Chicago. 
Hiss Virginia Lee McCreary and Edward H. Merrill. Jr.. ex. '39. were married. Sept. 28. in South Bend. 
Miss Mary Willoughby Hotchkiss and Edwin D. O'Leary. '39. were married, Oct. 12, in Grosse Pointe, Mich. 
Miss Charlotte Sarah Thomas and Robert F. Schramm, *39, were married, June 1, in Toledo. 
The marriage of Miss Betty M. Galloway and Sam L. Denne, '40, took place Aug. 24. in Co­lumbus, Ohio. 
The marriage of Miss Jane Strand and WilliaBl 
R. Ryan. Jr.. ex. '39, son of William R. Ryan, '11, took place Oct- 5, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Virginia C. Schmitt and James R. He-Queen, '40, were married, Sept. 21. in Mishawaka, Ind. 
Miss Mary Virginia Ullmann and Edmund J. Gatcns, ex. '41, were married. Sept. 19. in Chi­cago. 
Births 
A son, James Henry. Ill, was born to Mr. and Mrs. James H. Brennan, '20, on Oct. 5 in River Forest, III. 
Mr. and Mrs. John Paul CuUen. '22, announce the birth of a son, Mark John, on Sept. 22. in Elmhurst. III. 
A son, John Charles, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ben H. Mahank. '26, on Sept. 17. in Saginaw. Mich. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. William 
J. Broderick, ex. '27, on Oct. II, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Barbara, was born to Mr. and Mrs. William B. Jones. '28, on Aug. 16. in Washing­ton. D. C. 
Mr. and Mrs. G. Francis Jones, '29. announce the birth of a daughter, on Sept. 26, in South Bend. 
Dr- and Mrs. John P. Forsee. *30. announce the birth of a son, on Oct. 1, in Louisville, I^. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Halcolm E, Tromblcy. '30, recently, in Mt. Clemens, Hich. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bertram L. Metzger, *31. announce the birth of a daughter. Mai;tha Ann, on Auf;. 5. in Chicago. 
Dr. and Mrs. Francis C. Tomasi. '32, announce the birth of a son. Anthony John, in Benning­ton, Vt. 
A daughter, Monica Rae, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Wiliam D. Waltz, '32, on Aug. 20, in Massil­lon, Ohio. 
A son, Michael, was born to Mr. and Hrs. Eugene J. Coyne. '33. on Sept. 21. in Pittsburgh. 
Mn and Mrs. John H. Crimmins. '33. announce the birth of a son, Patrick Joseph, on Oct. 1, in Chicago. ^ 
Mr. and Mrs. Fred B. Suite, '33. announce the birth of a daughter, Teresa Marie, on Sept. 23. in Chicago. 
Twins, a daughter and a son, were bom to Mr. and Mrs. Daniel J. Mahoncy. '34. on Oct. 14. in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert F. Rogers. '35, announce the birth of a son. Robert Francis, Jr.. on Sept. 
17. in Roekaway Beach, h. I., N. Y. 
A son, Ijoms A.. Jr., was bom to Ur. and Hrs. Loois A. Lance, *36. on Sept. 21, in Fond du Lac, Wis. 
Mr. and Hrs. Hugii E. Wall. Jr., '36, announce the birth of a dau^ter, Susan, on Sept. 24, in Dayton. Ohio. 
A dau^ter was bom to Mr. and BIrs. Pan] Kafcosfce, ex. '37. on Oct. 13. in Sonth Bend. 
Hr. and Hrs. Enrin J. Weiler, Jr.. ex. '39. an­nounce the birth of a daughter, on Sept. 16, in Louisville, Ky. 
Deaths 
Rt. Rev. Blvr. Jaaes A. Solon, B.S. *84. U.S. '86, AJIf. '92. pastor for 41 years of St. Mary's Church. DeKalb, HI., died on Sept. 25. He was buried in Ivesdale, HI., on Oct. 1. F^eral services in DeKalb on Sept. 30 were presided over by Host Rev. Edward F. Hoban, bishop of Rockford. HI. 
John W. Gatbric, B.S. '85, C.K '86. H.S. '95. of Alliance, Nebr., died on Sept. 21 after an illness of six months. He was buried in Carroll, Iowa, on Sept. 21. 
The "Alumnus" has missed a recording of the death, on Sept. 17, 1939, of Clarence J. Pope, Bunkie, I«a., a student in 1891 and the father of George Pope, '30­
Georse W. Delana, Ph. B. '14, Chicago, brother of Edward K. Delana. '11. also of Chicago, died on Sept. 26 after a brief illness resulting from a kidney ailment. George, a generous and regular member of the Alumni Association, was a sales­man for the American Optical Co. Surviving him arc his wife and one son. 
An "Alumnus" envelope, recently addressed to Norfein Ardiart, E.E. '26, Loaisville, Kj., was returned by the postoffice with the notation "de­ceased." Norb had been ill for some time, but the Alumni Office has no details concerning his death. 
Dr. Philip F. Hi^ey, Smethport. Pa., a student at Notre Dame in 1926-28, died on Sept. IS as the result of an automobile accident a week before. . He is survived bjr his wife and two children. Phil was graduated in medicine from St. Louis Uni­vers-ty, following his N.D. years and a year at 
Dnquiesne. 
Fayctta F. Raff, A.B. '29, a teacher in the public schools of South Bend, died on Sept. 22 in her heme. She had been ill since April. Surviving her are two brothers, both of Lakeville, Ind. 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Saaiael FciweQ, '17, upon the death of his mother: John C C*dirane, '23. upon the death of his father; Drs. David, '25, and Edward S. Harpliy, '31, upon the death of their mother; Dan W. He-Clask^, *27, upon the death of his wife; Joseph Canty, '29, upon the death of his father; Jahn J. IffcCIaTcrB, '39, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
P. E. Burke, '88, 301 Before 1890 Camp, New Orleans, La. 
1S9A 90 ^^' ^' "^ MacKamara, '97, ^"'^ * ' Smint Joseph's Sanitarium, Mount Clemens, Michigan. 
The nation celebrated "Knute Rockne Week" Sept. 29-Oct. 5. South Bend premiered the Rockne movie. Everywhere "The Rock" was honored. And Walter Stewart, sports editor of the Memphis 
•'Commercial Appeal," dedicated a column to Rockne on Sept 29. Hidiael J. McCormack, '99, Memphis, sent us the notes that we might pass on a few of them to you who had not the opportunity to read them. 
Stewart's thoughts— ". , , But the Rockne tradi­tion thunders on—grows stronger ^vith the piling years. This is Rockne Week and they're dedicating a street for the old Knuter back in South Bend. They're going to hold one of those first nights for a Rockne movie. This is all very well, but it strikes us with a slightly hollow note. None of us needs a *Rockne Drive' to remember the baldish man with the quizzical smile—the greatest genius this mad game of football has produced. 
"The true Rockne Memorial is cutting up the sidelines down there—a memorial in rhythm and bravery and hard-drawn muscle. The Rockne Me­morial moved across a thousand torn fields today. It ^vill move as long as men love combat and the surge of battling tackles," And again—"Each year holds 52 Rockne Weeks for the men who love the Sage of Notre Dame." 
Stewart closes—^"Do you remember the head­lines which told of Rockne's death back in 1931? The tempo of life stood still for a while. Then it started on again like a car running on two fiat tires. Football could never be the same again. You felt that way and you still feel it. Knute Rockne wasn't football all by himself .. . no man can ever be that. But he was the brightest thread in all the vast fabric, and when that thread was plucked out. the deugn lost its sharp perfection. No, we don't need a Rockne Week to keep our memory clear." 
Stewart devotes much space to Han? BIchrc, '22, head football coach at the University of Mis­sis^ppi. The Saturday before the Rockne column, Harry's Ole Miss lads stormed over Louisiana State University, 19 to 6. Harry was one of Rock's pupils. 
Bobt. E. Proctor, *04, Monger 1900-04 Boildinff, Elkhart, Indiana. 
A newspaper clipping bearing a London date­line and forwarded by Bs^ron V. Eutaley, '04, de­tails the efforts of Col. Charles J. Sweeney, ex. '02, to organize an "Eagle Squadron" which will be composed of American fliers who volunteer to fight for Britain. Tlie squadron will be patterned after the famed Lafayette Escadrille which Col. Sweeney helped to organize during the first World War. His hr^jher, Robert J. Sweeney, of the class of '03, now lives in liondon. 
Ber. Tkomu E. Burke, C.S.C., 1905-09 '07, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
« QU I Ber. H. L. Horiarty, St. Mary's Churdi, Mentor, OUo. 
« Q l « Fred Steen, 1CG6 Fint National Bank BuQdins, Chicaco, Illinois. 
B. J. Kalaer. 324 Fourth St, Pitts­1912 tarsh, Pennsylvania. 
 R. Byrne, University Library, 

1913 Paul 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 

I Q l ^ Frank H. Hayes. 642 Third Ave^ Chnla Vista, California. 
James E. Sanford, 3725 Clinton Ave., 1915 Berw}-n. Illinois. 
Ray Eichcnlanb and Jack Cannon, '30. former Irish grid greats, addressed the ChiUicothe. Ohio, Knights of Columbus recently on Notre Dame's _ football history under Knute Rockne. Grand Knight John Ryan opened the meeting and George DriscoU. '25. ser\*ed as toastmaster. 
|Q| # Timothy P. Gal%-in, First-Trust Build­
' ' • " ing, Hammond. Indiana. 
Notes from Danny Hilgartner tell of some grand sessions he had with Harry Scott In Indianapolis and Stubby Campbell in Louisville while vacation­ing. Stubby, an architect and building contractor, promised to make the seventeeners' 25th reunion although he pours concrete in June. 
IQi y Edward J. BIcOsker, 3309 Fairmonnt 
' ' • ' Blvd., Cleveland Heights. Ohio. 
^ Q l A John A. Lemmer, 901 Lake Shore Drive. 
I # I O Escanaba, Bfidiigan. 
I P I Q Clarence Badcr, 650 Pierce Street. 
' ' • ' Gary, Indiana. 
Secretary Chick Bader sends out an appeal to his fellow classmates to deluge him vdih class news for he is in "Dutch" with his good wife who cannot understand why the '19 class notes are missing. Chick tries to cxpain that being a war class, it was rather small and the boys are pretty much scattered. You can help Chick keep peace with his wife by filling his mail box. 
I QO n ^'^ B- Ward, 1012 Black Bldg., LOB 
' '"* » Angeles, California. 
 W. Daffy, 1600 Terminal Tower. 

1921 Dan 
Cleveland. Ohio. 

A. R. Abrams Company, contractors and de­signers, announced the removal of their offices from Chicago to Commercial Exchange Bldg.. 41 Exchange Place, Atlanta, Ga. 
Gerald Ashe. 46 Weit Avenue. Hilt6n, 

1922 N. Y. Paul H. Castner, 37 Sonth Ave.. New 
1923 
Canaan,. Connecticut. 

I Q^A J- F- Hayes, 393 7th Ave.. Room 1515. ' '^ " New York City. 
IQ^ C John P. Hurley, 2085 Brookdale Road. 
* '^ ^ Toledo. Ohio. 
John Hniiey. looking to the '25 coaches for some news, got the following from one of them— a certain E. F. Layden: 
"Dear Class Reporter: 
"Please don't become too optimistic over our winning t^vo games—we won two last year. Even though the boys are working fine, I am anxious to see their reactions with their hacks to the wall. Of course, if they don't have to get their backs to the wall, that will be perfectly okay, hut there will be many tight spots before our season is over. 
"Mine is a factual optimism that will talk about an undefeated season in December. That theoretical thing is too uncertain. 
"Bemie Llvergood and Don were in Saturday. Also saw •'Oats'* Byrnes in .the Oliver Lohby. Everyone else seems to have hidden himself suc­cessfully. 
"Thanks for your good wishes. When are you going to reix)rt?" 
m Q^K Junes A. Ronan, 127 N. Dearborn St.. 
* '" O Chicago. Illinois. 
Fnaa Jim Ronan: 
Mr. Dooley: 
Yes, Bill, we are definitely going to have a 15­year reunion of the Class of 1926 next June. We already have one definite commitment. Ran into CUnd Pitsenbcrger, of Indianapolis, and his charming wife in the lobby of the Oliver during the recent Rocicne premiere festivities, and Claud says be will be on hand for his first alumni re­union since graduation. That's a start! We can bank on Bod Barr —he's a certainty. Ber. Leo Gorman. C.S.C., Art Haley and yourself and a lot of South Benders are right on the spot, the Chica­go gang ynll be close to one hundred per cent, so start maldng your plans for a big week-end. 
What about those class officers we had in 1926? President Frank Bon hasn't "checked in" for some time; but I'm sure Frank will be able to catch an Eastbound airliner out of Cheyenne. Vice-presi­dent Mai Knans and Secretary Ed Crowe, along with Joe Shea, should be able to stir up a delega­tion £rom Detroit, and Treasurer Rog Nolan is about due for a visit, too. Perhaps we can get a few "district agents" working. John Quincy Adams. Ed Fallon. Dr. Gerald Weldon Hayes and a few more might undertake to cover the Eastern seaboard. Jim DriscoU knows everybody within 500 nules of Oeveland. All other territories. South. West and North are open and will be promptly filled on application. 
Bemey Wingerter passed through Chicago re­cently en route to California. He spent an eve­ning with J(din Taohy and Dr. Jim Stack. "Wink" hoped to visit Norb Kavanmngfa, his brother-in-law, and Al Anton while on his Western jaunt. Doctor Stack is pretty busy these days, what with acting as surgeon for the Northwestern Railroad and teaching at the Medical School of Northwestern University. Guess which side of the field he'll sit on November 23? 
Another of oar prominent medicos. Dr. Hanrice HcEUigott is reported as having recently estab­lished his practice in Quincy, Mass. Dr. Hidiael Eatle Mnrray is in that territory, too, you know. 
Don't despair. Dooley, we'll round up these strays between now and June 1 — we hoiw, we hope, we hope! 
1927 Jowph H. Boland. Athletie Office, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
From Joe Boland: 
John HcBride, from his stronghold in the hills of Pennsylvania, checks in with a semi-annual letter from the coal regions. Johnnie is teaching at UcAdoo High School. HcAdoo, Fa. 
Jakn Petrone, the Snffem, N.Y., kid, was last heard from abont two years ago in his capacity as practiring medic in his home town. Just last week (before the College of Pacific game, as this is written) tlie chappie hove into Notre Dame all dressed np in uniform as a member of Uncle Sam's medical service. He told of his year in the medical corps of the Army, with a term at Gov­ernor's Island, and is now at Kayo Clinic, in Minnesota, idiere he has been detailed to check np on new teehniuues. He expects an assignment shortly to the Air Service, Medical Division, bat where or when, he knows not. Sends his best to aUof27. 
Dm TealuB diecked in with a short note from Northampton, Mass. Next time he writes, let him taice notice that we want bniine** connections, address, and the etcetera—for the rest of the boys. 
Hariy Byan, last met up with at Iowa City. last year, seems to be a man of parts. After sedng Harry, now the Reverend Harry Ryan, on the sreat plains of the U.S.A.. we hear from him in Peking, China, where he is currently taldns: a bit of sieht'seeing, on a trip "to some of the places he*s missed heretofore," as he puts it. 
Pat Canny* who can be depended upon to make this column monthly, since he's a regular visitor to these parts, tells of bavins met up with Fred 
H. Deatsch* now with Henasha Products Co., of his home town, Mcnasha, Wis. Hie meeting took place on a railroad trip, made more interesting thereby, no doubt—knowing both lads with time on thQir hands. 
Neil Galone, who spent years dodging the inevi* table, finally popped into South Bend two weeks ago to bow his head. He and Hiss Catherine Lyden, of Sharpsburg. Pa., were married in the Log Chapel Saturday, September 28. Neil was the recipient of a Friday afternoon lecture from the two old members of the Benedict's Club of '27, Benda and your scrivener. We took care of the lad well. 
Bill Molan. with Regan Bakeries in Minneapolis, checked in by mail to assure one and all that he and his side-kick, Dick Hanoasek. -would be on hand for the Northwestern game in Evanston. Hanousek is also associated with Regan Bakeries. 
Frank Doyle, who started in '27. then had to drop out because of illness, dropped into the basement office in Breen-Fhillips to check over old times, the morning of the Georgia Tech game. Frank finished at Wisconsin and is now with Castle and Doyle, at 125 State St . in Madison, dispensing coal, building materials and sundry bric-a-brac. He sends his regards to classmates, and would appreciate having any of them drop in when in Madison . . . little does he know about the wolves! By the way, Frank's son and the sons of Bob Reagan and Harry StnMdrcher are playing on the same school football team in Madison. 
Bill Halloran. now with Sears, Roebuck and Co., in the plumbing and heating end of things, dropped into the campus recently after a trip East. In his conversation, revealed a keen interest in other '27 lads, and gave us dope on Dan Hoore, now with Western Electric, as always, and proud papa of five children. Both Moore and Halloran are located in Chicago. 
And. just in case we didn't mention it before. Joe Gartland is now lined up with his brother in the insurance firm of Gartland Brothers, at 200 Franklin St.. Boston, according to our last letter from the genial New England Irishman. 
So. with brevity in mind, and Carnegie Tech coming up. your scrivener goes back to his worry­ing with the thought that "R" day October 16 won't mean a thing to the class of *27—and don't tell me those years don't go by! 
William J. Hnrphy, Chicago, is now the head continuity editor of the central division of the Notional Broadcasting Company. 
1 0O0 I'Oau F. BacUey, Box 124. Notre Dame, 
•'^ » IndUna. 
From Lon BncUey: JcAn Winberry wrote from 296 Ridge Round. Lyndhurst. N. J., where he is practicing law giv­ing us the sad news of the death of Dr. BUI O'Brien. Most of you probably noticed the account of Bill's death in the October issue of "Alumnus" Thank you. John, for sending us this information. 
John Igoe was back for the Rockne PVemiere and promised to act as guest writer later this year. John's address is Kansas City Club. Kansas Cnty. Ho. I didn't have the opportunity to get much news from John, but he did tell me that he is stilt single. 
Bill Cronin was also here for the Premiere. Bill is kept busy travelling between New York and ^\^ashington as Irank Walker's secretary. Bill also promised to be a guest writer later in the year—after the election. 
Art Denchfield was in town for the Georgia Tech game. He called while I was away so un­fortunately I did not see him or get any partcu­lars as to what he is doing back in the U. S. 
I would really enjoy this class secretary job if all deadline dates were like this one. Thanks to John Rickord. Martin Kyan and the men who w^rote to them we have more news this month than we have had in some time. John Rickord's 17-page letter proves that if you give an ex-news­puper man a deadline you will certainly get re­sults. The only criticism I have of John is thai, he "scooped" me by getting letters from several fellows whom I had in mind for future guest writers. 
Next month we are to hear from Angie Grams, whose address is 121 S. 13tfa St., LaCrosse, Wis., and Martin Callagy at 240 E. 79th St., New York City. Drop them a line so they will be able to meet the standard set this month. 
Here is Rickord's letter. How about giving me your secret, John, for the fine response you re­ceived from your requests for news? 
"^Vhen your letter arrived asking me to write some news of our class, it caused me to gripe in the best Notre Dame manner. What business, asked I of my wife, has Loa Buckley got request­ing news from such a non-social member of the class? Why, I was as much out of touch with class members as Chamberlain was with Hitler! 
.But after you sent me the addresses of some of my old pals, I sent out calls for help. The result was astonishing. I^etters came from all directions via regular mail, special delivery and air mail. The last, an air mail, special delivery, came from BiU Jones about two hours ago. Such coK)peration, admittedly undeserved on my part, warmed my heart more than can be told. Thanks. Buck, for rousing me from my lethargy. The job you handed me. instead of being an imposition, turned out to be a blessing. 
"Henry Hasley handed me a novel introduction for the column. Here it is: 'Dear Classnute: I received a card from someone at the above ad­dress [my own] telling me that I<oa Buckley had requested a column on the 192S class for the *Alumnus.' Whoever you are, you forgot to sign your name. The only directory I have does not list any Notre Dame alumnus at the above address. You woudn't embarrass me by asking me to guess who, would you? Perhaps it's Yehndi. Anyway, ir you will reveal your identity. I shall be glad to oblige.* Wonder how many others were victims of ray absent-mindedness? Perhaps, like Andy Boyle. I should have been a professor. 
"Whi!e mentioning professors, we'll turn to the letter from Bob Fogerty, who is teaching Ameri­can Constitutional History, American Colonial His­tory and two courses in Economic History at the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul. Minn. Bob has also been taking graduate work at the University of Minnesota, and after receiving his Master's degree in 1936. continued with studies aimed at obtaining a Ph.D. within this year. Seemingly, his only wife so far is his work, as he makes no mention of any other. Bob reports a visit to Notre Dame during the summer, where he saw Fathers Keller. Sdramacher and Cunninihaiii. Other excerpts from Bob's interesting letter follow: 
" *My old roommate at St. Thomas until last June was Clair Blackall. '29. H.S. '30. He re­ceived his Ph. D. under the acgia of the *Big Bed' at Cornell in the sommer of 'S9, in Mathematics and Physics. .. . In order to be ne%ax his home in North Baltimore^ O., he took a »—^-hi^ig por­tion at DeSalea O^Iege, Toledo, this year. He left here an enviable record of teaching skill and all-around excellence. . . . .' 
" *Down in my home town, Elwood, Ind., [Bob would have to mention that town] Jim Cenncr, '29, is carrying on the Home Ice and Coal Com­pany efficiently and well. .. . And Leo Fcttig, '28, is doing a fine job in the tomato-packing indus­try. My brother, JadC '30, lives in Elwood. too, and travels Indiana for the Sellers Cabinet Com­pany. .. . I missed seeing Jolui Seiter by a week this summer. John was bound for Minnesota to do some fishing. . . . . 1 get that delightful 'old hmne* feeling occasionally at meetings of the Twin City Club, when Tea TiaagUer is in the Twin Cities. Tom. Jsck Deyle^ Gene CBrisa. Vic TheisacB and I can bold a small-acale reunion for '28... . A yearly greetins has preserved, even if by a slender thread, my contact with Al DmMf, 
. of 45 Kermit Plaee^ Brooklyn.' . . . 
** 'Bmk Dinkcl, *29. was married in Minneapolis this summer. He is completing his work toward a Ph. D. at the University of Minnesota, and this year has taken a teaching position in DePauw 
University, Greencastle. Ind. I enjoyed a brief chat a week ago with Larry 'Moon* M»iK*i»_ *31, who brou^t op here a grand football sqosd from St. Ambrose, in Davenport, la. .. . I was in Elwocd for the huge Willlde celebration on August 
17. My Dad had charge of traffic arangements, and I can say with undisguised pride that the crowd of 200,000 or mote was moved quickly and effidently, without a single serioos mishap.' 
*'Well. Bob, we're happy to have found out at least where the Focerty efficiency originates. 
"living done with professional contacts, we'll turn to the letter received fnan 3mA llaIlcB» who still is with Benton ft Bowles, Inc., 444 Madison Avenue. N. Y. Jack reUtes that he is in the radio end of the advertising agency business, a fi^ which he says is not widely frequented by N. D. men. Which may be taken as a hint to ree«it graduates. Jack hasn't seen many N.IX'men re­cently, but be expects to attend the Navy game at Baltimore and is looking forward to sedng some of the boys there. He attended the last Navy game there, and had a nice visit with Jeha Win-Wrry. Jack writes also that he's astoanded to realize that he'll be married ten years come Jan. 17. Well. Jack, I also was astounded when my twelfth wedding anniversary cani^t up with me Aug. 25. Jack has acquired three daughters, aged ei^t , four and two. As for myself. Jack, I've accnnm­lated two sons, aged nine and five, and two dauj^­ters, aged seven and three. Look out. Bab Klrfcy! 
Jack asks to be remembered to the boys who used to work on the South Bend newspapers: George Kelley, Gteige Schewr, the members of Prof. Coeaey's classes, and especially the Professor himself. 
"Now let's turn to California, where Ed Fieitaa enlisted the air mail to readt me in time. One can't ask for more than that in the way of assist­ance. Ed's new address; Lon, is 1720 Grand Ave.. • San Rafael, Calil, the change from 820 being due to the renumbering of all houses in the town. Looks like more New DeaL Even California ean't eseai>e. Well, here are some quotes from Ed's welcome letter: 
** "Yon probably are not out of toaeh with the Notre Dame fellows any more than I am, JOhn.... My nearest ex-classmates are In San iVandseo and Oakland. I see very few of my er-dsssmates, but every ones in a while I mn across Notre Dame aInmnL Last Satorday I met Back Shaw, ex-Notre Deme star footbaO play« and now the famoos coach of Santa Clara University football team. 
about 60 miles from here. My classmate, John 
F. 'Sam' Danne, is the manager of athletics at Santa Qara. Unfortunately, Sam lost his wife durins the past year.* 
"•William 'lUie' Bryne, class of '29, a friend of mine since high school days here on the Coast, still lives near here, and I have seen him at two football srames in San Francisco this fall. Stanley Carroll, a former graduate student at Notre Dame, .. . is a professor at Domenican College, a fash­ionable girls college located at this town. . . . Two years ago I went to Los Angeles to see the Notre Dame-Southern California game, and ran into quite a few of the old gang: Larry Moore, Eddie ConninEluini, Joe Hiss and numerous others. I am planning to go to see that game again this year. . . . 
" 'Now a little about myself. I have been mar­ried since February, 1929. I am the father of three ^rls, eight years old. four years old and 13 months. [Ed and Jack Mnllen must be on the same diet.] I have been working for this com­pany (The San Rafael Land Title Company) for a little more than four years. I have not been back to the campus since graduation, but hope to be back for Commencement either in '41 or '42. . . .' 
" *! see Bert Donne every once in a while. Bert was publicity writer for dear old Knute Rockne during 1925 and 1926. He lives in San Francisco and is married and the father of four children. [We ex-publicity men aren't doing so bad for our country, are we. Bade?] His brother, Sam. is living with him now, I understand.' 
" 'Spread the word around that I'm anxious to hear from any of the old gang. I used to hear from John E. Brannon but of late I haven't heard from him. I generally get a Christmas card from Art Denclifield and the last one was postmarked BraziL Where is he now? I am always anxious to hear from Notre Dame men, and, if there are any of them that- are ever out this way, I wish they would look me up. This town is only about 30 minutes from San Francisco by car, so if they are in San Francisco, a phone call and we can get together. Regards to all Notre Dame men, to you, John, and thanks for thinking of me when Louie puts the finger on you.' 
"Yes, and many thanks to you, Ed, for your fine refponse. 
"Working our way eastward again, we'll stop for a visit with Howie Phalin, who is sales mana­ger for the Quarrie Cbrporation, publishers, and who has recently moved into a new home at 718 Sheridan Road, Wilmette, III., with 'phone num­ber Wilmette 3216. Anybody wishing to call him better note the 'phone number, since Howie states it is not listed in the directory as yet. Here's the pertinent news from the demon salesman: 
" 'Just returned from Oklahoma and am catch­ing a train for Minneapolis in about an hour. To begin with, I saw Bay Lnsson yesterday AJA. (late as usual). He is purchasing agent for the Board of Education here. . . . Remember Lawler? He was in my office today and is connected with the Clancy folks in Chicago. William Hanley tSuTphy is -vnth a metal product company. Saw Red Connors and Jim Harris about a year ago at Universal N.D. Night. He is a distributor for Chicago TMbunc*. John R. Marphy is manager of our comi>any's Ckilumbus, O.. office.' 
*"Rcd Homey was in to see me a few weeks back. He was recently married, and lives on Chi­cago's South Side. Johnny Wolfe drops in quite often—sells printing. Have seen Swede Sdtroeder once since graduation. He is practicing law in Detroit Lakes, I£nn.- Suppose you know Billy Leahy is in C^cago. Sorry to say I have only seen him once since he moved here. He has his offices in the London Guaranty Building.* 
" 'The Knox triumvirate are doing nicely. 
Harold is connected with the Healey Osnstruction 
Company, building the new Chicago subway. Boh 
is in the State Architect's office at Springfield, 111. 
Vernon is city attorney in our old home town, 

McHenry, 111. Both Vernon and Bob have new-
daughters . . . both old enough to ask for nickds. Mrs. Fhalin and I visited the Bcmie Birds and their two fledglings in Buffalo in late August. Bernie is chief probation officer for Erie Coimty, . N. Y. He said Bill Dowdall was prospering in the meat business in Buffalo. Eddie McEeown is attor­ney here for Commercial Credit and doing most handsomely. We spent a wcek*end with him at his summer home at Dune Acres. He has two 
dcndy Idds. Ed also runs a Dodge agency.* 
" 'Have you ever heard from Bill Jones? I mean big handsome bad Bill. We met him in St. Matthew's church in Washington, D. C. sometime back, just l>efore he was married. Oh, yes, we stopped a minute in Bethlehem. Pa., this summer and saw Leo R. McJntyre and his new bride. They have a brand new house and gave every evidence of having been badly bitten by the love bug*. 
"Maybe Leo is making up for the starvation years, Howie, 
"Since Bill Jones was inquired of above, we'll turn to him now. Bill was my best man when I married two months after graduation, but I don't believe that's the reason we have never corre­sponded. Just another of those things. But a good letter came from him this morning, which we'll quote in part: 
" Believe me. I have not been as indifferent a best man as you think. I have been trying to catch up with you ever since I last saw you in Sioux City some ten years ago. Every time I saw some mutual friend I asked, 'Where is John Ridvord?' and the answer w^ould be either *in Kansas City. Chicago. Pittsburgh, Philadelphia* or somewhere else in the United States'. 
" 'So you have four children. I think that's grand, particularly since I have my first, an eight-weeks old baby girl named Barbara. I was mar^ ried in November. 1937, to a Montana girl, and we have been making our home in Washington ever since. I have been working with the Depart­ment of Justice and have enjoyed the experience greatly. You probably know that I spent six years in Montana, going there in August. 1931, after getting my law degree. My first two years I coached a college football team at Helena. Mont., and practiced law there as well. The last four years of my stay there I devoted my full time to the practice of law. On several occasions, driving from Montana to see my parents in Denison, Iowa, I stopped at Sioux City and looked up Red Har-, rington. .. . One time I drove out to Trinity College and looked around a bit. I particularly enjoyed seeing the high school class picture of 1924. Gosh, we were certainly youthful looking persons in those days'. [Bill, Joe Brannon and I went to high school at Trinity; Bill should see me now with my paunch and partly bald head!] 
" 'Last year at the Army game in New York I had a grand time with Bill Cronin, Jim Conmey, Joe Cannon and Larry Cnlliney. I saw Bob Hamil­ton for just a minute. .. . A year ago this past summer, my wife and I drove to San Francisco, and on the return trip we stopped in Sacramento and si>ent a most enjoyable time with Joe Bran­non. .. . Joe has been very successful with Sears, Roebuck and Company, and had just a short time before taken over the manager's job of thdr Sac­ramento store. Believe it or not, he has put on some weight and looks fine. His brother. Bob, who was of the class of '29, is and has been for several years county attorney at Denison*. 
" 'Louis BHddey, our most effective class secre­tary, taught at Catholic University here this past summer, and he and I had a number of enjoyable sesaona. I saw Andy Boyle a year ago last summer in Sooth Bend. He is, as you probably know, most happily married and has just built a new home in one of the newer subdivisions of South Bend. See­ing him reminded roe of the fall of '28 when the three of us were about the only '28 men left on the campus. . . . You asked about Howie Phalin. I saw him and his wife here in Washington three years ago this fall. , . . When he gets to St. Louis, tell him to malce a return trip to Washington, be­cause now that I have a new daughter, I probably will want to buy a book or two—at a consider­able discount, however*. [What are you doing for movie passes now. Bill? The old 'News-'fimes* is defunct, you know.] 
•"Bin Kearney, his wife and father were here in Washington a couple of years ago, and we also had a great get-together. Last year, on my return trip from the West, I enjoyed meeting Bill, Jr., who was then hut a few weeks old. His father was away on a fishing trip. Bill is an assistant state's attorney in Chicago. . . . Bert ifonenesfci. Bill Kearney and George Braatigam have a private law firm. I have not seen Bert for a Ions time, but I understand he is now a bene­dict tike ourselves.' 
"While still in the East, we'll swing over to 44 Westminster (?ourt. New Rochelle. N. Y., where Georse Crongeyer holds forth. George, modest as usual, says he knows little of our classmates, but goes on to rfve us the following: 
" 'Bob Hamilton is one of the central figures in the New York picture. He's president of the Notre Dame Club of the CSty of New York, and in that capacity he's doing a job that has probably never been matched. . . . On a few occasions I have attended dinners which Bob graced as toastmaster. His aplomb in that role would make any '28er's heart swdl with pride. Connie Ochoa is presently stoi>ping at the Hotel Vanderbilt. He attended the NJ). meeting Hiursday evening of last week. . . . Larry Calliney is in Rochester at the moment for the Federal Insurance Deposit O)rporation. A mysterious gleam in his eye, coupled with a some­what distracted manner, tells me that something in the nature of an important event may be lurk­ing around the comer. For all I know, the little guy with the arrows may be staging a blitzkreig hereabouts, because unless I am totally cock-eyed, Bemie Gaiher, who has just returned from a vaca­tion in Pittsburgh, is displaying pretty much the same £atal symptoms'. [I'll bet George still is in a bombproof!] 
•"Bin Cronin is spending quite a little time in Washington these days with Postmaster General Walker. Jim Conmey of your beloved Iowa [What made yoa leave?] is still in Wall Street, running with the bears. The bulls show signs of having a field day, but you'll never find this man C>}nmey 
getting  up  to  meet  the  sun  halfway'.  [Hasn't  
changed a bit, then. Georg e.]  
" 'JadE  LareUe gets more  jovial every  day.  

When I last met him, he was still coaching at All Hallows Institute. Joe GrifHn is living in Hart­ford, doing I don't know what. Dan Bradley is taming in a bang-up performance remedying the ailments of the good folks of Amityville, tu I., wheie he reades with a fine family of his own, Chadie Shelaniky is also living out on the South Shore. I have it on unimpeachable authority that Charlie is a potent political figure out that way, and is taking over Long Island acre by acre. In his re^xipnlation program, I understand he is running in the fast company of Bing Crosby and Eddie Cantor*. 
"As for George, he has just finished his sixth year with the Metropolitan, Life Insurance Cbm­pesy. Beyond that, he has nothing to say for himadf. But those of ns who know Georce. are 
certain that he is doing well for himself. If only he'd give the sirls a hreaki 
"Circlinff back towards the center of things again, Sve come to George Keller, 432 Lafayette Avenue, Youngstown, O. George, who was my roommate at the Hischkers on Notre Dame Avenue during our last year of school, is city editor of the Youngstown •Vindicator*. Having chased all the newspaper comi>etition out of town, he's get­ting fat after being relieved of the terror of worrying about the other sheet's scoops. He's the one classmate with w^hom I've maintained a steady correspondence, and it was my good fortune to attend his marriage in August. 1936. What a day that was for me; but George weathered it well enough. George hasn't much news, as Chet Rice was his oniy classmate from Youngstown. He reports that Chet is in Columbus, handling building insulating material over at territory that reaches off into West Virginia and other far away X>oints. George and the 'Vindicator* staff had smooth sailing handling Willkie's Youngstown visit, but he was worrying over Roosevelt's ap­pearance. Well, George always had to fret over everything he handled, which probably explains why he always handled things well. His irre­sponsible roommate worried him considerably, and probably still does. 
"Now for a stop at Lansing. Mich., where George Sdieoer, after several years at Detroit, is now sojourning. He was transferred to Lansing by The Associated Press, and his new address is The Associated Press, State Journal Building, Lansing, Mich. George has no news of our class. but he assured me he did not mean to neglect me when, through the 'Alumnus', he issued invitations to certain ex-'News-Timers' to correspond with him. It really hurt my tender feelings to have George, who was just beginning when I gave up my job as sports editor of the 'News-limes', neg­lect me. Besides, I was one of the founders of the A-b-s-c-n-t club, of which George's present bulletin for the old 'News-'Dmes* gang is an outgro\vth.-I thought perhaps the Fourth Estaters regarded me as a traitor for having left journalism for what I consider a more profitable and more interesting field. Even Frank Aheam, for whom I acted as best man when he married one of our 'News-Times' ladies in the fall of '28. has no written word for me these past several years. 
"And now back home, I must report that there is little news of members of our class. John Igoe has moved to Kansas City, and Carroll Pinldey to Porlageville. At a party given by Station KMOX and the Columbia Broadcasting System Friday. Oct. 4, I did see Dr. Bernard Crowley, who is practicing dentistry on the unsusifecting citizens of Maplewood, Mo., which is just outside the St. Louis city limits. Doc is doing well, and looks up to par. Also had a nice visit with Lndwig Peter­schmidt, *29, and his wife, lliey have two daugh­ters. He is with General Motors, and lives in Fergoson, Mo., another St. Louis outpost. The folks who do well always live out in what the natives here term 'the County.' St. Louis being a city not enfolded by any county. 
"As related somewhere way back in this com­munication. I married two months after gradua­tion, and have two sons and two daughters, with three of them now attending school. After leaving the post of publicity director of Notre Dame in January of '29. I went to work for Armour & Co. in my home town, Sioux CSty, in February, 1929. The Company sent me to Kansas City in August. 1932; to Chicago in November, 1933; to Pittsburgh in August, 1935, and here to S t Louis in April, 1937. I came here as assistant plant superintend­ent in charge of all pork operations, but for the past year and a half have been acting in the same capacity in charge of all beef and by-products operations. Having belonged to the various Notre Deme clubs in all the cities cited above, I've seen many of our classmates during the years which have elapsed since the spring of '28. Also, George Kelley and I had a big time at the '34 Com­mencement. 
"That. Buck, is all the news you're going to get from me. Perhaps it's too much, thanks entirely to the faithful lads who did not let my long lapse of memory interfere with their desire to help me off the spot you put me on. To them all, to all ethers who wanted to help but could not for one reason or another, and to you for stirring me out of my retirement, many thanks." 
Henry Hasley sent the following directly to me in response to Ridcord's request for news. 
"I sent quite a splurge of information last spring, and that all appeared in the 'Alumni, so I shall have to confine myself to local or current gleanings. There isn't much need to say anything about myself, because most of the members of our class probably know that I have been practicing law in Fort Wayne for the past 11 years, I have a little girl six years old and a boy two and one-half years old who keep things very lively around the house. 
"Joseph J. Koran, who hailed from DeKalb. 111., during his student days, is one of the Notre Dame engineers who is helping to keep the local plant of the General Electric Company in operation, Joe is married and lives at 4333 Drury Lane. 
"Frank P. McCarthy, formerly of Indianapolis, is one of the more recent additions to the business life of Fort Wayne. Frank came here about a year ago when the Van Camp Milk Company moved their offices from Indianapolis to Fort Wayne. He is still unmarried, but that is as far as my information goes. 
"Arthur W, Aliller, who received his A.B. De­gree at Notre Dame, later went to Washington, 
D. C, to finish his study of law in the political atmosphere of the nation's capitol. Art spent several years in the trust department of the Lin­coln National Bank and TVust Company of Fort Wayne. He has, however, given up his regular salary check for the unpredictable vicissitudes of the general practice of the law, with offices at 545 Lincoln Bank Tower. 
"Joseph J. Madden has been helping to make the Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (home office: Fort Wayne) one of the outstanding insurance organizations of the country. Joe is married and lives at 4542 Wilmette Avenue. 
"I just learned yesterday that Bernard B. Sdiah. formerly of Plymouth, Ind., has been in Fort Wayne for over four years. Don't ask me where I've been during all that time. I tried to reach Bernie this morning, but he had already left for the Georgia Tech game. I am leaving for the same purpose in about 15 minutes". 
Here is Martin Ryan's fine contribution from Buffalo, N. Y., giving us news concerning several of the fellows whose names have not appeared in the column in some time. 
"The number of '28 men living in this vicinity is very limited or else the wives have heard that I am still a bachelor and are afraid their husbands may pick up some bad habits by associating with me. 
"Bernie Bird, warden of the Knights of Colum­bus in 1928, came back to Buffalo to make a name for himself and from the enclosed clipping which I cut out of the Buffalo paper after I received ycTur letter is doing just that. [The clipping carries an announcement of Bemie's appointment to the Canisius College faculty as a teadier of Juvenile Delinquency and Crime Prevention. Bernie is also Erie County Children's Court probation officer.] 
"Gns Jenkins is married, father of four diil­dren. two bojrs and two ^I s and living in Will­iamsville. He is head of the Knglinh department and assistant coach of the football and baseball teams. On my visit to his house for some news, I found that nnce my last visit he had become a father, as Ctad Ann was bom May 31. and the owner of a beantifal new home. He told me that, on his last report, Dkk Green was in Syracuse and Dan Riley was running a liquor store in Cortland. 
"Frank Cmnera is with the village of Arcade, married and recently elected to the Board of EIu­cation. We feel mi^ty proud of this last accom­plishment because he is the first Catholic to be elected to this board in the history of Arcade. Frank and I went to Fatter Mark FltveialTs first mass in Olean, which to us was an occasion that we will long remember. His father's recent operation prevented me from contacting him for information. 
"Bin Dewdall is married and the father of two children, a boy and a girL He is running National Markets Inc. and, &om what I hear, teams with Hcniy L. Bams, '29, the folding box manufacturer from Tonawanda, to take a couple of the local boys over the jumps at golf. 
"Jelumy Warren, the former Dunkirk boy, is now living in Hamburg and working for the Erie County Highway Department. He is married and the father of a very nice family. 
''Benny Di Pasqpale* one of Pat Canny's boys, is now using his hands to keep the welfare clients under controL He is married and works as a visitor for the Erie County Department of Social Welfare. 
"They tell ms that Bill O'NeilTs trucking firm has a terminal in Buffalo, but I don't know whether he ever honors.our fair city or not. One of his competitors here is Jade Cartis, '27. mana­ger of the National Carloading Co. 
"I am enclosing a letter from Harry ScbakawU which answers that question 'What hapx>ened to the Wayland boys?' "As for myself, Louie, there is not much to say. I am still single and living at the same place in Buffalo, so if yon ever get around this luut of the country in your travels give me a ring." 
And thank yon. Harty SdiabMehl, for respond­ing to my appeal to give the guest writers a hand. Harry sent the following letter to Ryan: 
"According to the October issue of the 'Alum­nus*, Lea Badcky is praying again; praying for news of '28'ers. I am glad something got him started. 
"As an answer to his prayer and to help you a little bit, too, with your assignment I shall be happy to give you what meagre information I have. 
"You see, out here in the country where the air is fresh and the air is pure, we do not often get in contact with many Notre Dame men. However. I should like to say ClailE Wallace is living in Co­hoeton, N. T. He is working for the WetmiUer Dairy Co., is married, has two children, and is doing all right. 
"^ e only other '28'eis I know anything about are Gas Jenkias who is tpnrhing school somewhere in the Batavia, N. Y., area, and Frank Cennors who has becoine a tycoon in the Electric Jk Gas business at Arcade. K. Y. 
"As for myself, it mi^ t interest a handful of Notre Dame men such as Gas BlacDenaU, Teauay Cellias and Bev. Marie Fitzgerald to know that on November 11. 1939. I married the gal: one Made­leine Ibry Mooney. And I don't want any cracks about Armstice Day either. 
"At the present time. I am operating a Farm Implement Sales and Service here in Wayland." 
Lawyer John F. Frederick is manasins the 1940 campaign for the G.O.P. in Muskegon County. Michigan. 
A campus visitor in September was John Lar­

•en of Geneva, N. Y.» who is the sanitary inspec­tor of the health department, having held the position since October of 1938. 
1929 Joseph P. HcNunara. Attorney Gen­eral Office, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
From Joe BCcNamarm: As Mr. Dooley (the Notre Dame one) once remarked "it probably would take several com­modious closets to acconmiodate your secretary's literary skeletons," .but undoubtedly the most no­torious has been the failure to report on Indiana in the national round-up. Thus we are presented with a straight issue between hurriedly making the report or, the secretary's neck, with the vote in favor of preserving the secretary's neck by a positive landslide. 
Most 'ZSers are undoubtedly interested in the candidacy of Clarence (Oonie) Donovan for the office of Indiana Secretary of State. Since gradua­tion Oonie has been the prosecuting attorney of his county, the president of the Bedford Chamber of Commerce and an exceptionally able president, whn got tangible results for Bedford at that, and the leading attorney of his county. His surprise nomination has given him an opportunity to visit all parts of the state and most of UB have been very happy to have him drop in and talk about the days in Badin and Sorin, Dr. George Keogan, etc ... 
The manager of the Lafayette office of the Indiana State anployment Office is Richard E. Hangfa. "He usually works overtime at 312 North 4th St., Lafayette, but usually can be found at home at 209 West Front SL, Delphi, Ind., on week-ends. After leaving school Dick was in the production department of the Western Electric Go., Chicago, and later became a salesman lor liggett and BIyers Tobacco Co., then took a turn at selling insurance for a year, and for the past five years has been with the State Employment Service, where his work has been marked with dis­tinction. . . . With defense occupying the national headlines we know that Walter H. Mnlflar, who is a metallurgist for the Inland Steel Co., is seeing plenty of activity. Walt lives at 4019 Deal Street, East Chicago, and your secretary is looking for­ward to \i^ting him and seeing his three splendid children.». 
Over at Elkhart. Ind., Ernest J. Ferro is to be found at 131 West fodiana Ave. Ernie was selling insurance the last time your secretary heard from Elkhart, and was married and has three fine chil­dren. , . . The manager-buyer of the men's fur­nidiings department of Sears Roebuck at Evans­ville is Leo J. Lynn. Leo is the secretary-treasurer of the Notre Dame Club at Evansville, is married and carries a podut-pboto of his three girls. Oh yes his address is 711 Court Street . . . Over at Fort Wayne LMUS F . mexer is practicing law and doing a very fine Job of it. Louie is pardonably proud of his wife, a visual home ran, and his child. Just after leaving Notre Dame, Louie worked with tiie Grace Construction and Supply Company, becoming asriatant superintendent. Later be was a representative of tiie O'Bourke Insurance Agency until 1933. From 1934-1937 he attended Indiana University Ijaw School and received his 
LL.B. and was admitted to the Bar. . . . 
Up Indiana Harbor way we ran Into Rnisel T. CBrien, who is a steel Inspector vdth Inland Steel. Ross is married and lives at 19 landa Street, Ho­bart, Ind. .. . In our own front yard Kenneth 
J. Smnup is with the legal division of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co., with headiiaarters in Indianap­olis. ""Caae^ is married and has two children and 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
lives out at 4927 Broadway. . . . Incidentally, that isn't far from where Ridiard Karl Zimmerly, one 
, of the more famous of the "Juggler" artists, lives. After leaving Notre Dame Dick spent a year at New York University and a year at Columbia University. He worked for A. F. Gilbert on Hfth Ave. in New York City, later moved on to Phila­delphia where he worked for Howe and Lescaze. He came back to Indianapolis to work for Fred­erick Wallick, but presently is with Herbert Holtz and Sons, 1033 Architects Biulding, Indianapolis. Dick recently acquired a wife lovelier than the best of his pretty pictures, and I understand that he has carried out some of his ideas in interior decorating in his residence at 245 West Maple Road Blvd. Dick's fame in the architects' world is mounting and he is the treasurer of the Indian­apolis Society of Architects. . . . 
At Jasper, Ind., you should drop in to see Andrew G. WorUnd. Andy is the bookkeeper for the local beer distributor, is married and his five children and lives at S06 West Seventh St. . . . One of the finest is Karl F. Johnson, who is the factory manager for Kingston Products at Ko­konio, Ind. Karl is married and I believe has three children. .. . Jim Digan is the secretary and operator of the Logansport Radiator Equip­ment Co. Jim is past president of the Rotary International of Logansport, is married and has two cliildren. .. . 
One of the most successful of the 29'rs is Ross Harrington, whose law office is in the Dickinson Trust Company Building at Richmond, Ind. Ross has been especially suucessful at the Bar and is presently a member of the law firm of Gardner, JesEup and Harrington and is the president of the Wayne County Bar Association. Ross is married, lives at 114% South 13th Street, Richmond, and has one child. 
Headline news in all Indiana papers recently was the selection of Norman J. Hartxer as one of the "ten best dressed men in Indiana." Norman is the assistant District Counsd for the H.O.L.C. Cori>oration and maintains offices at 417 Odd Fel­lows Building, South Bend. On last reports Norm was not married and was living at 843 Forest Avenue, South Bend. Norm is the state chairman of Junior Conference of American Bar Association and has been the president of the Junior Assoda­tion of Commerce, and president of the Holy Name Society. .. . Imi>ortant in the legal sphere of things at South Bend is Francis Jones, who is an associate in the firm of Jones, Obenchain and Butler. Frank's office is at 802 Odd Fellows Building and he and his wife and new child live at 1751 Portage Ave. .. . In law enforcement circles in South Bend it is James E. bating, who is assistant prosecuting attorney for St. Joeeph County at 818 Odd Fellows Building. Jim has eluded Cupid and was_still quite free and hajipy on last reports. Jim has taken very active part in Democratic politics and assures us that Notre Damers Oonie Donovan and BiU Fitzgerald will lead the Democratic State Ticket in St. Joseph County this fall. . . . 
The city attorney of South Bend is gracious George N. Bemmer, who maintains his office at 811 JJtf.S. Buiilding. George has had a very re­markable career since recdving his sheepskin in 1929, having been city judge, prosecuting attorney, candidate for Congress and is presently regarded ­as one of the most infinential men in the dty administration. George lives at 545 Altgeld Street, with his wife and two diildren and has retained all of that quiet charm which has endeared him to those of us who "knew him when". . . . Beamer's running mate in school, Rwsael C Kuehl, has law offices in the Tower Btxilding at South Bend. Russ is married, has one diild, lives at 911 Lindsey Street. . . . 
Joles Grossman maintains his law offices at 805 J3f.S. Building and, having eluded the coils of 
matrimony, maintsuns bachelor headquarters at 401 Napoleon Boulevard, South Bend. . . . Willard Fartier is an auditor with the O'Brien Varnish Co., Sooth Bend, with whom he started in October, 1929. He has been very active in bowling circles, is married, has one child and answers the 'phone at 1625 North O'Brien Street in South Bend. . . . Orsni Dsasisn is the district plant engineer with the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. at South Bend. * . . Jokn N. Perkins is in the financial department of the Associates Investment Co. at South Bend. John is married, has one child and receives his money at 1424 Wall Street, South Bend. . . . Ihe answer to the Alumni Office prayer when it comes to staging a reunion' is genial Willard F. Wagner. Wag is an insurance agent for the Traveler's In­surance Co., officing at 701 Sherland Building. If you are in Sooth Bend for a football game, call 3-4468 and yon can be certain of a warm recep­tion in the cordial Wagner manner. 
At Notre Dame the 29'rs are proud of the record of Faal C. BarfhaloMew, who is the associate pro­fessor of politics. Paul is married, has one child and lives at 705 North St. Joseph St , South Bend. Since 1929 he has acquired his Master's and Ph.D. degrees and has been the acting bead of the De­partment of Politics at the University. . . An associate professor of biology is Donald Jaaeph Ffaukctt. whose office is at 202 Biology Building, Notre Dame. Since leaving school Don has ac­quired an M.S. Degree at the University of Illinois and dona graduate work at the Uuivernly of Michigan. .He was instructor at Camdl College, Helena, Montana, coming back to the University in 1932 to teadi. He is married and reads Walt Disnejr stories to two charming children at 926 North Notra Dame Ave., South Bend. .. . In the Department of Electrical Engineering we find Laarence F. Staader, who is the instructor there. After leaving Notre Dame Larry was a student engineer with the General Electric Company, Lynn, Mass., for two years; football coach at Areola, HI., High School for two years, then be­came electrical estimator for Allis-Chalmers Manu­facturing Co. at Milwaukee. In 1937, Larry joined the staff at Notre Dame and now resides at 622 West Golfax, South Bend. . . . 
Selective service in its legal asjiects in Indiana is in the hands of Captain William Krcig, who is patriotically sacrificing time from a most success­ful law practice to help Uncle Sam strengthen defense. Military leaders have praised the speed with idildi the selective service organization was completed in Indiana and have been particularly pleased with the work done by Captain Kreig, whom you and I remember as preadent of our class "way back when." 
Jae Apadaca, former N.D. professor, just returned to Washington after spending three months in Sooth America representing the U. S. Department of Agriculture. Joe was on a good will tour lec­turing before the students in several South Ameri­can univenities. He is an economist in the Bureau of Agrienltoral Economics in the Department of Agrienltnre. 
IQ9 A Bicbrd L. bonocfaae. 310 RiveisMe Dr.,. l7d U New York atr. 
In the dajrs before the automobile replaced the horae, a horsdireeder's son suggested to his father that he get some chun brakes for his wagons. The old gentleman did not hold with any of those newfangled ideas, saying "Son, if X ever send yoQ ont with a team that can't outran the wagon, let 'em go to blazes." Toor secretary Is in BOiaewhat the same predicament for class news,, as the honebreeder thons^t his horses were in. So, witti news a bit scarce, the best we can do is to promise yoa a real dish In the next issue of the "Ahimmis.'' You seereUry does not want to be­rdosmted to the lot of this hypothetleal team of' horses, so send him some class news to keep him out in front of the task at hand. 
Don Badiholtz* ex. '28. recently lost his wife, and the class expresses its sympathies to him and his two sons. We met Don and the two hoys in Grand Ontral Station awhile ago, and had a nice chat with them. Here are two great kids, too. We see Ed Daffy once in a blue moon at the local club meetings, as well as Frank Mother, ex. '29, each of whom is working with the Edison Company as enffineers. IVank and your correspondent often team up at NJ). functions here. Tom Lantiy is in the insurance business, and is doing very well. Tom puts out a snappy advertising piece whidi incorporates a football schedule in it, as well as the exhortation "Line Up With Lantry." Not bad, but we do not wish to be off-side in the "plug". Tim Toomey and Jim Riser have yet to give xa a story on the New York Club Retreat, so we will have to "punch them up" a bit with this re­minder to get the news to you. 
Jim Shechy, M.D., is now on the staff of a Brooklyn hospital, and is having fine success. Tom Listzwan is with one of the large marble companies here in New York. Tom is one of the many loyal Thirties who are working on various 
N.D. affairs here, and he is doing a grand job. We have not seen Georce Winkler since the Re­union in June at Notre Dame, and we want to hear from him. George is in the rug business, so we understand, and we presume that he is quite a "rug cutter" himself. John Cassidy moved to Washington, D. C. some time ago, where he is still with the American Laundry Machinery Co. WVII be looking forward to seeing Laorie, Spinelli. Broeker, Frank Dnnn, C«tl Gmnning, Joe Lordi over the Army game week-end, and perhaps we can worm some news out of them, too. Joe is Quite a SQuash racquet performer at the N.Y. Athletic Club, having participated in a number of tournaments recently. 
So, as a well-known travel-talk says, we reluc­tantly leave beautiful Whatchamaycallit, the land where class news must become more plentiful, ere we get the "can" from Bill Dooley for talking with our own echo. Drop us a postal card for the next issue—^p-p-please, so we can do a job. Re­member that Dooley says that "Names make news —^N.D. news of interest to all." 
 Bergan. 838 E. Colfax Arenae, 

1931 John 
Sovdi Bend, IndianB. 

From John Bergan: Now that we have all been subject to conscrip­tion, let us h(^>e that it will not be effective until afer our tenth reunion, which is just seven months distant. We Intend to have the greatest ten-year gathering yet, so hold on starboard, mates. 
Tlie early games at home brought the usual number of the class from the vicinity of Chicago and environs and among those seen were, Dan Hatpin who managed to coincide his RCA mer­chandisinflT itinerary with the Pacific and C^rgia Tech game*. Dan has been traveling in the inter­ests of the RCA kodak size radio. B«rt Hetzger was the only 1930 team regular to attend the pre­view of "Knnte Rockne—^All American." Bert has been drinking Bowman milk and consequently is about 16 pounds heavier In the past ten years. Al Stepan managed to take in the Pacific game and related that most of his time is now spent in the faetory ride of the chemical business now so that be la strictly a family man at this writing. Others present were TWA Ben Oakes, Bill Smith. Eddie Ryan* Frank McGreal and Ray Collins of Chicago. A large number of the Indianapolis and southern IHinoIs boys made the Dlinois game and scout Tom Menahan promises a full account for the next Issue. ­
Seen at the Carnegie Tech game were: Mr. 
and Mrs. Charlie Coshwa of Youngstown; Fattar Boarke Motsett of Kewanee, 111., Bob Neydon of Detroit, Mr. and Mrs. Leo Hodel of Chicago, Harold Bennett and Clarence Fatter of Misha­waka, and about 12 South Benders. 
Jfrfmny Anderson has left the vicinity of Do­wagiac. Rich., and is now located in Ashland, Wis., with the Wisconsin Power Company. Badger Earl O'Brien is busy these flays after a strenuous campaign for Milwaukee city attorney. Spealdng of politics, we still have no news of Johnny Blanda's race for state assemblyman of Passaic county. New Jersey, or Tommy Cannon's bid for the prosecutorship of Delaware county. Indiana. Then, too, Frank Brown was in the race for the city attorneyship of Pennville, Ind. Myron Harphy made some political speeches in his native Rock Island. Myron is practicing law in the river town and keeps busy with his family. 
Nick Bohling performed very actively on Chi­cago's south side for the Green for governor movement. The Bohlings are parents of a daugh­ter bom in September. The Hatch act silenced Frank BIcGreal during the campaign. Vinee Ponic also took an active part in the Cook county cam­paign, while the Hatch act kept the words out of Phil Konop's mouth. He is a member of one of the New Deal commissions in Washington. Rollie Ponlin is now assistant manager of Robertson's enlarged store for men in South Bend and is still single, despite rumors to the contrary. 
Professor Jim Kearney had a 10-day stay in the local hospital as the result of an appendectomy and is busy whipping the first issue of the Notre Dame "La\\Ter" into shape. Incidentally, Jim has acclimated the Dick Bakers with the wiles of town and campus. Walt FhlUips has been busy these past few months in his new job at the Philadelphia shipyards. Bemie Leahy's Chicago west side restaurant has become quite popular with the Notre Dame crowd. Bemie hopes to re­new old acquaintances at the Northwestern game at Evanston. Red O'Connor, Loaie Rhomberg, Jim Rudolf, Johnny Manley and Dr. Fred Reiman are forming a party to attend the Iowa game. Lou claims that all he has heard for the last year was the power of the Hawkeyes, so he is all set for a Notre Dame victory. Another leader of a contin­gent for that game is Red Loney, the Cincinnati accountant, who will lead a par^ up from south­ern Ohio. It is reported from Buffalo that Ron Zadedi was either going to be married or take a long trip early last summer. The trip won the argument, so he has recently returned from a seven weeks trip to Hawaii. We have tried to get a line on it all, but no correspondence thus far. Perhaps, Scrivener Dick 0*Donnell can get the details as well as other Pittsburgh news. 
A cheery letter from Bad Toahy informs us that a great gang was to assemble at the Oonmio­dore hotel on the eve of the Army game and that a full account will be rendered in the next issue. He also reports that his son, Brian, is working out eveiy day and that he ought to be in fine fettle for the 1957 track season. Bud is now liv­ing at 137-05 Franklin Ave., Flushing,' N. Y. Tom Ashe is looking forward to seeing Heinle Rodd. Boh Piggott, Ed Sherran, Matt CaBlnan, Fa d Cashing and any other,members of the class who may be in the vicinity for the So. Cal game. Ed Everett took time off from his South Bend real estate business to promote a very interesting Notre Dame club smoker on the eve of the Carnegie Tech game. 
We wish to congratulate our old friend Harry Sylvester on his short story "Beautifully and Bravely** which was awarded a place in the Ed­ward O'Brien collection for 1939. which was re­cently published. Harry has also had a nnmber of fine stories in "Colliers" this fall. 
At this writing the leaders of the '31 coadies are, Frank Leahy at Boston College, Lany Mal­lins at St. Ambrose and Mardiy SAwurtx, assist­ant coach at Stanford, whose teams are still im­beaten at this writing. Nice work! Jim Keatias and Hadelyn Connors of Fort Wayne were mar­ried the latter part of October and are living in South Bend where Jim is chief deputy prosecutor of St. Joseph county. 
We are making our final plea of 1940 for news of many men whose whereabouts have heen on­accoonted for in sometime. If you have any items of interest postcard them on and same will be greatly appreciated. 
The following is a most welcome letter tram Ray Connors, Great Barrington, Mass. 
The recent arrival of those two mighty ambassa­dors of good will—Trnwrnaay Marphy and Bos Red-gate of Bridgeport, Conn.,—gave me the idea that a word from the hoys of Western Massachu­setts might not be out of place. Bus and Tom. complete with wives, spent a very jolly week-end at my guest ranch. They, as everyone must know. are of the class of 1930. Bus had heard that I am in one of whackiest of professions, so he decided to go cow-poke for a week-end. ­
There probably isn't another graduate of NJ). who is manafpng a guest ranch, thereby entitling me to some small niche in a believe-it-or-not morgue. Have been at it for nearly two years, after a stretch as newspaperman that lasted since I graduated trova N.D. In '31. This is infinitely more interesting: yon know, you meet such Inter­esting people .. . which included a guest who eventually turned out to be Mrs. Connors. 
Frank Kelly, also of the class of *30, who lives and prospers in nearby Lee, Mass., comes down'to our rxmch to sld in winter. Yon see, we put dudes on horses in summer and on skis in winter. Jack Reorice, *29, of Stratford, Conn., is also a beginner at the gentle art of skiing, and comes here quite regularly In season. He's running a big agency for trucks sales—White, I think. Frank Kelly is stepping Into his pappy's footst^u as the village undertaker—or does he prefer mortician?—and furniture store maestro, up in the quaint town of Lee. 
Jimmy 03iien , '34, also of Lee, is husy work­ing for the PIttsfield Electric company in the county seat. Jahnny Barton, the only other fellow besides myself ever to go to NJD. from Great Bar­rington, dropped in a few weeks ago. He dhtittlea between Oklahoma CHI fidds and the r-^nmiKmn gold mines as an entrepreneor extraordinary. Johnny, yon will remember, was a halfback during the time of the Four Horsemen, so had plenty of competition as a gridder. 
I've seen Bah Kick of Brooklyn, N. Y» when Fve been in the city on one of my Infregoent trips. He was in the class of '31, and is now a dignitary in a governmental agency; nnemplosrment pensation, I think. 
T«M Cadr. the pharmaoentical student who kept Badin Hall in an uproar, ia now a staid physician, and he^ too, is complete with wife. Dr. Tom livaa in New Cknaan, Conn., not far &am Stamford. Another old dram, Tom Feniter. is now doins a whale of a praetiee in medicine In Westlteld. Haas. 'Where his pal. Tammy Shea. Is. I don't know. Jae Jadkym. tanaa haaeball and baakat­hall captain, ia now tifariiinK in Westfldd and coaehins on the dde. 
If any of the hoya bom tlie Connectient TaHey, metiupoKtan New York or New Jeney, dMald hy diance come np to the Bericdiirea for sUinc in winter or just vaeailoalns In summer. I'd ha tickled to see them. Onr ranch aleeva 8S. ia open the year roond. and we can soarantae than good food and Iota of fon. 
Bob Brenium, former milcr and corss-country man with me, travels throush this section fre­quently. He makes his home in Lenox, Mass., has a nice wife, three Idds. 
Would particularly like to know what has hap­pened to Don McConville, '31, my old roommate from Superior, Wis. He doesn't even answer Christmas cards next year! 
m A^ ^ Junes T. Iffoe. 328 South Jefferson 
• ' ^ ^ ChicacD, Illinois. 
From Jim Isoe: 

AI Culver is with the Snow, Church and Com­pany, investments, on liaSalle St, Chicago. I bet he "tackles" those investment problems with great vim and vigor. 
Aloysins <Bad) Gorman, after working in a brewery for several years after graduating, is now working in a law office. He is going to law-school nights and is due to graduate with a law degree very soon. The other Gorman, Emmett, (no relation) is running a successful plumbing business on the south side of Chicago. 
John Mnlfaeni is worldng for one of the larger Chicago meat packers. OIlie Powers has switched jobs. He is now with a steel strapping company. 
Henry Tholen is, and has been for some time, one of the mainstays of tiie E. R. Sciuibbs* drug company. "Van" Van Ettcn (Milton to you) is an engineer in the state of Illinois highway de­partment. 
If you cannot identify that picture in the last issue it is Frwicia OelericJi who weighed 155 pounds when he first set foot on the campus. My, my. how he has grown! Picture: Courtesy of Terry Dillon. Speaking of the uncomplimentary picture reminds me that 1 was calmly sipping my stein of ice tea on the edge of Fred Snite's swim­ming pool last August when an irate subscriber to the "Alumnus" gave me a gentle shove into the drink. It turned out to be a female subscriber when I came up. It seemed as though she objected to my mentioning the fact that she was going to have a baby. Tliis comes under the head of Fear­less Journalism. Don't Winchell and myself have a time, though? 
Hank Donalty, Charlie Hitzelberger and Gene Connelly met for coffee and dougnuts at Hitzel­berger's house in Utica a couple of weeks ago. We quote from their combined effort: 
"The reason for writing was the picture of Fran Oelerich in the last issue of the "Alumnus." That was really worthwhile. We are sending you a reasonable facsimile of a piano leg. That awful tiling pictured in the October issue is none of the four things mentioned but is Orson Welles without a beard, smothered with a *Jap-A-Lap-A-Waffle.' [Secretary's note: Next month's contest will be to decide what a 'Jap-A-Lap-A-Waffle is.] With the contest vrinnings we expect to buy one of Jim Igoe*s yatx^es on the adWce of Father Boland. 
"Here are some items of interest: As you re­ported Herb Giorcio is practicing law successfully bat you don't mention that his brother Doug is maintaining the Giorgio success on the medical front. •'Wee** Harrinrtcm is practicing law in Jersey. Gene Connelly and Hank Donalty are bragging about their new-boms. Charlie Hitzel­berger has a two-year old redhead. Connelly's latest was born March 23 and the third Donalty w-as bom August 12. 
"Frmnk Kane is practicing law in New York. John Lcddy, graduating from law school in '32, is still doing well in Washington, D. C. John is a tmst buster in the anti-trust department. Best wishes. (Signed) Connelly, Donalty and Hitzel­berger." 
Why don't some of you fellows follow the lead of the three above and send in some information? I know I am alwaj'S talking about it, but I will stop talking if several of you discover that letter T\riting is not a lost art- After all, how would like to get ducked in a swimming pool because there was nothing else to write about??? 
Double play: Kay Fox to Igoc to "Alumnus:' "As I wander around the city on my big brewery horse I occasionally sight a familiar face. Here's some dope on a few of the fellows I've seen re­cently ; 
"Ben Salvaty, married, ever the smiling rogue, and still getting a baseball bat with his new suits. 
"Clint Watson of Pontiac, zealous booster of all things marked Michigan, berserk with joy over the Detroit Tigers. Grieves the passing of Gehr­inger from the active scene. 
"Dick Bohnsadc of Amboy, (he thinks the Perth is understood) says hello to fais old friends in Carroll Hall. 
"George Izo (Akron) thinks Willkie will win if he gets enough votes, but does not wish to be quoted. AVonders if Kate Smith asked for seconds in the Dining Hall. 
"Neil C. Hurley threw a snazzy outdoor barbe­cue party Oct. 12, honoring Mary Hurley and Dick Joyce, and featuring Thor, the Wonder Horse, and eight kegs of Fox De Luxe. 
"Johnnie Brost looking plump and prosperous. 

"Jim Carmody's moustache, formerly an append­age, getting to be more and more a part and parcel of Jim. 
Notre Dame's own Joe Pctritz. head exponent of sports publicity, recently ironed out a little traffic problem with the police department in the Bend. Seems Joe saw the green signal when it was really red. Despite this legal difficulty, the lean Mr. Petritz carries on in the best Fetritz tradition, which means, according to those who should know, that Joe is the country's best in college sports publicity work. The "Alumnus" is proud to have him on its "payroll." 
1 0^ ^ Edmund Horiarty. 1027 Femdon Road, ' '^ ^ Ann Arbor, Midiigan. 
•I
Q9 ^ M. Robert Cahill, Athletic Association, 

•
 '^ ~ Notre Dame, Indiana. 


From Bob Cahill: 

I hope, gentlemen, that you'll grant you indul­gence during this football season. I was actually just too busy to make the last issue of the "Alum­nus," and still am for that matter, but am taking the time out at 11 p.m. after a hard day's work, with ten more weeks of it ahead, but I realize you're not interested in my troubles, so on with the news. 
First, here's a letter from Joe Degnan, as yoa know in a sanatarium in Vermont, which arrived last summer: "Hearing from Ayres, Tony An­dreoni, some guy in Denver who forgot to sign his name, to say nothing of other Idnd notes and a personal visit from Jake Klein (who managed a ball club in Bennington, Vt., last summer) makes me drop yoa a line of thanks. Really, Bob, I want to thank you for thinking of me and for asking Jake to stop in. It was very thoughtful of you. Haven't seen the June "Alumnus" yet, but you must have something in. for all letters seem to mention you, "Alumnus," etc. Be sure I appre­ciate all that. Bob. 
Wish I could ^ve you some definite news of my progress here after more than a year and a half—but at this point there hasn't been much. 
Bob. By early fall I may have some news for you 

. and I'll be sure to ship it on. The docs here think I should go somewhere to the Southwest next win­ter, but it's all very uncertain for a number of reasons. Should know where things stand in Octo­ber. I guess about anything can happen. How­ever, the place here is very pleasant, and every­thing has been swell. I'm not too far from home, and I know quite a few people around here, so there's a lot to be thankful for in many ways. The Southwest idea is a very uncertain one. Bob, but ril try to let you know how things are early in the autumn. 
I have had vi^ts from some Notre Damers here, and before the end of the summer I promise to write a good summary for you—something Arm­strong can use as filler in the Cahill number. Really will get the dope down and send it. Bob, if I have to teach my nurse how* to take dictation. Needless to say, that would be the exact reverse of the present trend. Tlianks again for all you've done. Bob. I enjoy reading your chatter in the "Alunmns"—^testimonial for Armstrong—^but of coarse that may not be much. Bob, because ''that rat hasn't even paid his dues." Nevertheless, as John SloecUey used to say, 'We're all sons of the Uni Veritas.* .*• 
I heard the other day that Joe was removed to the Southwest, but will have more dope later. Meanwhile. I feel sure that a word from all of us would be appredated. 
Ray Fiontdc sent me an announcement of the birth of a baby girl, Noreen Mae, on June 24, for which congratulations. Weight, nine pounds, two ounces, for which double congratulatons! 
Last Blay 27 Ernie Blasumine knocked off this letter: "Just writing to say hello from Oicuta, Colombia. I'm down here with a subsidiary of the Tscas Company, the firm with which I was associated in New York. I was sent here two month ago, for an indefinite period of time, which will probably be something like a year and a half. I would appreciate your sending the "Alumnus'* to me in Cucnta, Colombia, c/o The Colombian Petroleum Company. All other matter can be sent to me in Brooklyn and I will ask my family to forward the dues to you from there. Incidentally, I wrote to my Corby Sub roommate. Ken Montie, some time ago, but he has not answered me yet. If he ever gets down to South Bend to see you, please give him and his family my best regards. 
"As for Cucuta, it is a little town of about 30­000 pec^le in the interior of Colombia. Tlie weather is not so bad and the climate is dry and health­ful. The Americans here (the bachelors) live to­gether in a Stachouse, and we get together often for a card game, a scotch or two. or just a good old bull ses^on. I hope you are in good health. and I shall try to return home via New Orleans and the midwest to renew old acquaintances." 
I imagine Ernesto would like to hear from some of the boys, particularly you, Montie. 
Howard Waldron tried to bribe me for Army tickets by sending the following: . , . "As the years ibll along the contacts that bind alumni grow further and farther apart as business and other interests creep in. But it BO happens that through Fatlier Doremus, who dropped me a line the other day from New Orleans, I made an indi­rect contact with the two Sporl boys, Harold (Minnie) and Eddie. Father Doremus mailed me a clipping from the New Orleans "Hmes-Pica­yune" with an exceptionally attractive pictare of Mrs. Harold D. Sporl and her small danghter, Mary Patricia, who were si>ending the warm sea­son at the summer home of the family at Biloxi. Fktim the pictare I would say that the youngster has inherited nearly all the good looks of her at­
tractive mother. Eddie Sporl. who you will recall was injured in that auto accident with as as we joameyed home at Easter of 1934, became the father of a son, Edward in , on Aas. 11 in New Orleans. His address is 3700 Nashville Ave., New Orleans. 
"I had an odd experience early in the year. Went over to New York for the K. of C. track meet in the Garden and found that I was seated next to Bin Siiieb, of New Rochelle, whom I hadn't seen since graduation. He is studying medicine at New York TJ. after being laid tip for a time with a serious illness. Will scour around in the meantime and txy to line up some date for you on the many men of 1934. There's one fellow I'd like to contact but haven't heard from in live years. That's Rabe Gmndeman, who was with the General Insurance Corp. in Milwaukee the last I heard." 
Come on, Grundeman, after all that fun you and th6 Waldron boys bad in that palatial double in Alumni Ball you ought at least write that guy. 
At Fhaneaf says, among other things that he "took a long trip from St. Iiouis this summer and saw in Brooklyn Frank HcGahren, who is married to a charming girl, and is director of recreation for Catholic Charities. Ran across Bill Brooks and Frank Gartknd while there. Bill is with the Y and E Co. selling office equipment, and Gartland is a lawyer. Dropped into Boss* place but he was in the hospital with a broken knee cap. While in Mass, ran across Balph Tur­ner, and Paul HcKanus, who is with Edison of Boston. Also heard that Jack Heister of New­port, Ky., was to be married this past June and headed for Florida to open an office—what about confirmation of that. Bob ? [What about confirma­tion of that, Meister?] I'm still with Catholic Charities in St. Louis, and will see you this fall." 
Erv Kep was in a couple of weeks ago, looking grand and contented. He's with W. A. Taylor Co.. liquors, and will soon be transferred from Chicago to Indianapolis. Erv made me turn 20 colors by finally telling me his name after I stalled for half-an-hour. I know it as well as my own— better, during the football season—and ain't that an awful feeling? He told me that Ross Leonard is now living in Chicago, still with Frankfort Distilleries. 
I suppose lots of other things happened during the summer that I forgot to iot down. Oh yes. I attended the Indianapolis Club's golf party in July and had a grand time, seeing Iffike Fox and several others not of our class. Won a prize, too, but not at golf. Had occason to fiy down to Washington, D. C, in June, and, with an eight-minute stop at the Cleveland airport, found time to call Bob Butler, who is with one of the airlines at the Statler Hotel. Believe I heard the other day that he's a father now. Had a letter from Clander the other day and will see him at one of ball games, together with Bud McNichoIs. John Blartin of Oklahoma C^ty is going east for the Army and Navy games, and will join Bay Waters and Andy Anth for both of them. Bill Hnlsking is still with his dad's wholesale drug company and reports business fine despite that war— they're exporters, in New York. Several others have written for tickets, information, etc., but rarely do they include news, so. just for spite. I'll not mention their names. Jim Keams has a fine piece in the next issue of a well-known men's magazine on Layden. It's good reading. 
And now for the Marvelous Man of '34: I give you, gentlemen, Ed Kranse, the Big Moose. No. need refreshing your memory of his deeds at Notre Dame—All-American in football and basket­ball, generally well-liked everywhere. Became coach of St. Mary's College in Minnesota imme­diately after graduation, coached successfully there, and is now line coach and head basketball coach at Holy Gross, where, I am told, he is doing a grand job. Proud father of a new boy, but no more proud than Notre Dame is of Ed Kraoae. 
Word comes that H d Meyen has been promoted to be head of the accounting department of the McGill Manufacturing Co. of Valparaiso, Ind. 
IQ9 E FranUyn C. Hochreiter. 340 BoMdal* ' '* • Ave., St.' Louis, Missonti. 
From Hocfa: 
A word of appreciation is due "Scribe Moran." of the class of '36, for bis gracious compliments and congratulations on our reunion work. We are happy to know there were those who enjoyed themselves. Johnnie—it makes the work easier. Best of luck on your job for the next June! 
Since our last time to bat we have become ac­quainted with the swell St. Louis Club. Al Fhaneuf, '34, has been an awfully good sport and taken xis hither and yon to meet the boys at their Monday luncheon. The night of the world pre­miere of "Knute Rockne—^All American" the club had an informal meeting at the Columbia station, KMOX, at which Hany Flanneiy, '23, was one of the leading figures until he was moved, recently, to Berlin by CBS. We saw Al Ravarino and Fnd McNeil down there. We want to put in this plug for the St. Louis Club—they really are a crowd of "go-getters." 
Only two bits of correspondence came through since otir last writing and we give them to you in the beginning, before we take up where we left off last time in our roster of registrants for the reunion last June. 
First of all Jack Gainer was married to Miss Frances Louise Rippley on Saturday, Oct. 12, up there in Alton. III. We appreciated the announce­ment. Jack—wish more of the gang would be as thoughtful when they take the leap so we could give them an official blow. From all of us to you two—here is to a life time of happiness and good luck! 
Word comes from the east that Walt Powers has made a spot for himself. The New York "Sun" carried the news recently of his appoint­ment as advertising manager for the Gertz De­partment Store out Jamaica, Long Island way. Here is to you Walt; make the most of that Gim­bel training. 
Now to return to our registration cards. Pkll Heinle is working as a salesman with the Ameri­can Can Company in New York Gty, Bemie O'Brien is a physical education teacher with the Chicago Board of Education, and incidently, was married July 1, 1939. Ray Shea continues with the school department of Springfield, Mass. Position? We think as a teacher. 
John Malloy is an undenvriter for the U.S. F. and G. Company in Chicago. We tliink the first two letters stand for United States, and maybe the last two for Fire and Guaranty—^but we leave he deciphering up to yon. Joe Argus is a vice-president, no less, but he does a little selling of real estate on the side. The company—American Estate Co., realtors. The place—but of course, Indianapolis. Hurdis Dansman is the proprietor of an Electrical Appliance Shop in native Bremen, Ind. 
Ridiard "Duke" Walters—the dapper Dan of Chicago—is on the road selling for S and W fine Foods, working out of the home town. You all know that Fre.xie Tom Proctor is attomeying in Elkhart and on the side managing that ice cream concern. Playing father to that new son should be a full time job in itself. Bill HoBert is 'with Sears Roebuck at the Arlington S t store in Chi. Bill is in the advertising, statistics and research department of the concern. Phil Kirley is still "telling" in the national bank at Kewanee, 111. 
Art KantacsU—(note, the name has been ofS­dally dunged to Geaial. Art has been eonnder­ins this for some time and has finally put thmi ^ the court order. So after this, all fotors rcferene* will be to Art Cwndl) Art is the B.O.T.C. co­ordinator at Lane Tedmieal Bi ^ School in CU. 
JaA Sfcedif is assistant industrial sales mana­ger for the Sooony—^Vaeama Oil Co. working ia Milwaukee. Jaku Allea is praetidng law in the partnership of Allen and North up Battle Creek. Mich., way. Jeha Baike ia another lawyer iaiag his best legal pearls In the firm of Alexander. Burke and Clark—also in Milwaukee. Cy Bwscr continues as a diief chemist with Bendix Home Appliances. Inc. in Sooth Bend. JIa Olieara. the dairy man, is sales manager for WJI. Sprinkman Corp. dairy eqoipmoit and supplies, in West Band, Wis. 
Kiut Sim— hasn't changed a bit in five yean as he keeps pace vrith the grocery business in South Bend as wholesale grocery salesman for Simon Brothers, Inc. Pad CamU is derking in the Central National Bank in Cleveland. Jfaa Dwyer ia selling PM>er bags np in Hudson Fall*, 
N. Y., for the Union Bag and Paper Corporatiott. Hal K«lil«ia works as an ardiiteetuial designv and draftsman for Salisbury Wlieaton in Eha­huist, IlL Jee Bedc baa a poation with the In­diana Bell Telepbime Company as a supervisor in Indianapolis. Bill Otte is ndng the "ole bean" in the New Idea. Inc. as an accountant. The place —Ooldwater. Ohia Bi l Kyaa eontinaes with the Assodates Investment Co. in Sooth Bend. Bill has been there a long time now and is a tabnlating supervisor. 
DiA BaUiet, of Milwaukee, is working and liv­ing in the home town. He is a salesman for CuN ler-Hammer, Inc. Jake Fry hangs on to that as­signment with the Santa Fe Railroad. John is a dvil engineer working in Newton, Kansas. Didc Bsllmaa joins forces with the ether attorneys as he is the junior partner in the firm of Classen and Ballman in Green Bay, Wis. Bok Fox, of Fox Delnx Beer fame, is still with the Peter Fox Brewing Co. in Chi. Bob is a salesman for the brewery. 
Befc Pendergast is auditing for the Eureka Petroleum Co. is Kansas City, Ma. Bok Skidds is checking over the credit rating of the customers of the Kalamazoo Creamery Co. Clareace Pidord. a daddy since Feb. 2, 1940. is continuing with the Bell Telephone Co. in Indianapolis as a supervisor, along with Joe BeA. Al McCarthy is selling auto insurance for the Wdiigan Mutual Liability Co. np in Grosse Pointe, Mich. And right here in St. Louis is "Bcasde" Cavender who is interning at DePaxd Ho^itaL Spedalidng in iibstetrics, we believe. Give us a ring, soon. Beanie! 
Mart Bendde is also sdling insnrance for the 
W.A. Alexander Co. in Chicago. Viace Geraum is grinding away on all 16 cylinders at Cornell Medical School in Manhattan. 
Charlie Williamsen is assistant to the diief chemist in charge of laboratory and raw materials tar Hyatt Bearing Diviaon of General Motors in Harrison, N. J. Ken Whipps is working in Ao­hum, N. Y., as the assstant to the county engi­neer. Ken is attadied to the New York SUte De­pannent of Public Works. Ken, as you will re­call, was with Graybar Eleetrieal Co. in Buffdo. He moved to Anborn and the new job in 1938. 
Fnd Erdle is clerking for Eastman Kodak Com­pany in native Rochester. Fred married, Sept. 2. 1939, Miss Agnes Wilson in Holy TVinity Church, Wdnter, N. Y. de a Dd a i< diief draftsman for the Canton Stoker Coipoiation. of Cantoa, Ohio. Joe Miiipky is senior abstractor for the Tennessee Valley Anthority. Joe is working on titles in Gilbertsville. Ky. Nefl Cmriey—ah, at last a social worker! Neil has been for some time now with the City of New York Department of Public Welfare as a social investigator. NeiPs district is Brooklyn. 
Bill Steis was working as an enumerator for the United States Census Bureau when heard from last ApriL He asked for job information. Anyone having any dope please contact him at 426 N. Honticello St.. Winamac, Ind. We hope that info won't be necessary now. Bill* and that you will have been pitching in the ole ball game these many weeks since your card came. .Dick Shamla has his own insurance agency up there In Glencoe, Minn. Jim Shiels continues with the Association of Casualty and Surety executives as a special agent in New York City. George Isselman is a sales representative for the Aluminum Goods Man­ufacturing Co. of New York City. 
Ed Lonegan when last heard from was driving for the Ford Motor Co. at the New York World's Fair. Ed is the proud father of two children—a boy and girl. Ed married in June, 1937, Miss Isabelle Anne Hession of Brooklyn. 
We are going to leave you with this. Ibere remain just as many for next month just in case the mail continues to be slow. Of course our regis­tration data will become obsolete pretty soon if we don't get more np to the minute dope. How about your opening up now gang and coming throng with a little chatter so we can keep this column alive and going? 
Until next time—^keep ns in mind for the latest ­news about yourselves and your classmates. 
E. 95th St. Apt 2, I Ta O jfew Yoik aty. 
FVom John Horan: 

Football is in the air, but that won't stop us from leading off this column with a reminder that our Flve-Year Reunion will be held next May 30, 31, and June 1 at Notre Dame. Don't forget— Friday, May 30, is Memorial Day, so even the calendar is working for us, placing a long week­end right where it will do the most good. 
If yo« can take your vacation at that time, swell! But if you can't, the long week-end will enable you to get back to Notre Dame and not lose any fame from business. So plan now to at-ter-d—and line up the 'SSers who are in your sec­tion of the country. 
Yonr secretary has already written to key men in different cities and placed in their hands the responsibility for contacting local reunion-goers. Efere in New York announcement in the local 
N.D. publication resulted in the turnout of 13 members of the class at the October club meet­ing. When button-holed by your secretary every one indicated that be would be on hand for the reunion. Many came up with some grand sugges­tions which we will pat into good use shortly. 
So talk the reunion up to yonr friends. Ke­member the dates. May 30, 31 and June 11! 
Last month in the rush of getting off the initial colnmn of the new academic year, we overlooked several interesting letters that arrived during the summer. 
first on the list was a grand missive from Dan O'Brien the old poUtidan from Cleveland. Danny reports in, after four long years, as follows: 
". . . it is my good fortune to see Cliff Brown periodically, the last ocea^on being last week when we spent 20 minutes together in a milk bar [Dan's italics, not ours] in Norwalk, Ohio. Cliff reclly seems to be making splendid progress in Norwalk law circles and has develo3;»ed into an 
ultra-smooth i>olitician. 
"Art Cronin was in town last week and I spent two very pleasant evenings with him .. . all 250 pounds of him. My batting average for at­tending Commencement exercises is .750. li^ Dad was critically ill last June, Le., 1939, so natur­ally I was sticking close to home. This year's get-together was a dandy. The usual Chicago con­tingent was there , . . Von Banr, Tom Grady, George Thomas, et al. and 'twas good to see them. 
"Your Uncle Dan is operating as a scrap iron and steel broker, and finding the business very entertaining. I regret that I cannot impart my 'brogue' with appropriate gestures in this letter. Already I've gotten to the point where I eat . 'smukked meckerel' for breakfast 
"I would appreciate very much some news about John E. McGinley of Montclair. N. J., and Sal Costa of Metachen, N. J. There were two great boys that I'd hate to lose track of completely. Con­vey my salutations to any of the boys that yon may encounter, and I'll look for you next year on the fourth floor of Walsh." 
Thanks a lot for the nice letter, Dan. and yon can count on tis coming back again to the Walsh fourth floor in May. That reunion last year may have been grand, but we have the maldngs of a "bigger'n better" one coming up. Dan also en­closed a clipping regarding the wedding of Jolin Prentice of Milwaukee to Miss Eathryn Doherty which was duly recorded here. 

Walt Matnsevidi, who is now down in Cerro de Pasco, Peru, under a three-year contract as a ccnstruction designer with a mining concern, wrote in to describe some of the effects of a recent earthquake. Walt states that working above the Umber line, at an altitude of 14,400 feet, is hard on the heart as the slightest exertion sets one to breathing heavily. 
According to Walt the American colony which number 110, is very active sorially and parties, functions, etc, follow in great style. Sounds all right to us. In Lima, Walt sees Jerry Kane, *38, who is with Pan American-Grace Airways and is well on his way to becoming a real South Ameri­can, his mastery of the language being something to mar\-el at, but not to translate. 
Thanks for the letter, Walt and let's hear from you soon again. Meanwhile say "hello" to Jerry Kane and Jim Raaf, who is also reported roam­ing around those parts. 
Congratulations are in order for Bill Jacobs who sent us an invitation to his wedding last Aug. 
10. Miss Irene May O'Connor was the lucky girl, and the place was Lakewood. Ohio. Dr. Chuck EoUar was best man, while Bob Lyndi and Dr. Roy Scholz, '35, were ushers. 
Joe. Mansfield, vrho breezed in to New York and out again before your secretary had a chance to say "hello," took time off from his radio activities at station WJAR, Providence, R. I., to drop a line about his rapidly growing family. 
"Back about two months, Mrs. M. presented me with another boundng daughter. Tliat makes two. Now Eddie Cantor is only three up on me as re­gards daughters, but still is several million backs nhesd. I'm planning on catching him in one of the events. Hie newest Mansfield weighed in at eight pounds and two ounces. We've named her Betty Ann, and she is quite a lady. 
"I daresay you are already making plans to get back to N.D. for the big party next ^ring. T* should be a dandy get-together. Fm all set to go now. In fact Fve already put in my bid for tiie tifwc off to make sure that nothing will come up to interfere with the week-end. I suppose that the ccHtting issues of the 'Alumnus* will be filled with earnest M*nui pleas to the boys to flock back to the canqras. You can connt me in now." 
And how, we'll count you in Joel And we want to do a lot more "counting in" so let's hear from the rest of you boys. 
TMK CampWD came through with a grand letter on the very neat stationery of the Grand Rapids Nctre Dame CInb. Sez Tommy .. . "I am plan­ning to make the Army game this fall, if con­scription doesn't get me first Will be taking an excursion spedal out of South Bend and will ar­rive in N.Y. Friday morning. I expect that Art MallMlUiid of ^lamazoo will be along, and we are planning to stop at the Hotel Pennsylvania. 
"Just rec^ved a letter from Bob Cavanan^ telling about Ray Deely*B recent marriage, and I gather that they had quite a reception at Bob's apartment following the ceremony. 
"X have been busy all summer with accounting work, and still haven't been able to get a vaca­tion. Tom Batt ^bo is married and the proud papa of a cute youngster, has been playing in an orchestra all summer. Art Vamcan is managing one of the local theatres, and is doing very well, as is Ed Dnin who is also located here. 
"Jae Weiss has been laid up after an operation. and SaUy Bonet has been helping the invalid beck to health. Saw several fellows at the re­union in Jane and really had a swell time. Hope yoa are starting to drum things np for our five-year get-together next June. I hope to be there with bells cm, and if there is anything that I can do to make it a success, let me know and I'll be only too glad to pitch in." 
Hianks very much for your generous offer, Tom, and we'll call on yoa a bit later for some aid. 
Congratulations are in order for Tern's old roommate, IDckcy Dendler, who sent along an annoaneement of his marriage on Saturday, Oct 12, -to Hiss Germaine Thilman of South Bend. The ceremony was performed in the Log Chapel. Good hick, Hickey, to yoa and Jerry. 

Also in the mail-bag this month was a card from Jim Kiiby who is down at Duke University where he is doing some accounting work on an asagnment from the N.Y. office of his firm. Bad fisldwin wrote in from Pittsburgh where he is doing advertising and promotional work for the Ross Optical Chain. 
Se&x around town between registering for the coming election and the coming draft: Joe Don-nine is working as a playground supervisor for . tbe dty and is stationed in Queens.. Biff Flannery is working in a law office by day, and continuing his law education in the evening session of S t John's U. Frank Sliapiro came up from Philadel­phia for the NJ>. Retreat in September. Frank is carrently stationed at the Philadelphia Navy Yard as an inspector of aeronautical materials. 
At tbe dub meeting on Oct 3 we "shot the breese" with Jae Schmidt, Biff Flannery, Jim ScOly. PhU dark, John Regan, and Andy Haf­nagdf who is now kept busy as one of Bishop CHara's secretaries in the Chancery Office. 
Also Bill Shea, Bin Prang. Gene Lomiherzy, Hewie Casacfc who is helping Old Gold dgarettes set new sales marks. Carl lietsch was down fruin Yoslcen, where he is macagine: the family haber­dadieiy enporinm. Bill Wabh reported that Jl a CiMOT is nov Brother Baphad, and that he is stDdyins for the priesthood in the Dominican Hoose of Studies at Biver Forest. HI., near Chicago. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Jim Shenry* the hermit of Tarrytown, popped up with the information that he was best man at Al Carey's weddins: on Sept. 7 to Hiss Vera Pat­terson of Jackson Heights, N.Y. Hits was news to most of the boys, who promptly offered thdr congratulations to Al. who was present with his brother Joe. Long Jim was also on hand on Sept. 1 when Ray Deely married Bliss Rita Lynch of Washington, with Boh. CaTanaagh filling in as best man. Ray is now living at Arlington Vil­lage, Va. 
And that winds up the doings for this month. Let's hear from yon boys who have ideas for the reonion. Keep the letters coming . . . we're glad to hear from yon all. 
Charles S. Fitztimmona has been with the American Coach Co., makers of house trailers, since Sept. 1 in Cassopolis. Mich. 
10^7 ^"^ Foley. 1603G Schoenhoer Road. 
• ' ^ ' Detroit. MIdUgan. 
From Paul Fi4ey (jnst too late for the October issue, but nicely preserved on the "Alumnus" office ice): 
To put things first in the proper scholastic manner, we have a couple of weddings to chronicle —^make it three, might as well let O'Neil in. 
On Oct 12 Mr. John Charles UQmann. late of his downy couch in Alumni, will wed Hiss Uaiy Jane Wagner, before the altar of Visitation Church in Detroit. Among those ushering the many guests will be Steve Finan, the sage of Crawfordsville. Ind., who comes into our orbit for the first time in many, many moons. If we see Steve it will give us two full columns in reserve. 
Past now, since Aug. 24. is the marriage of John Michael Pattee Wallach to Eileen Lovett The ceremony took place in Littleton. N. H., we were informed. 
Now about that O'Neil matter—in mid-Novem­ber in Chicago there will be a gathering of the clans to assist in the marriage of Joe O'Neil and Miss Kay Cbmmings—^well remembered by one and all. Tliere is some doubt as yet about a spedal train from the East to carry the O'Neils, Byrnes, etc. We predict the wedding will make Chicago's election day seem like Tompkins Center box social. 
TTiere are probably many more nuptials—^what with the draft and all—but we haven't been in­formed. 
At least one of our boys is in the long green. In fact this chap is practically wallowing in it out in Salinas, Calif. The lad is Lloyd R. Stolidi who is squeezing a living from the world, and a pretty handsome one It is. I imagine, by associat­ing with his brother in the vegetable business— "mostly lettuce" says Lloyd. Far from being sat­isfied with his lot Stolich opines that in all the months since graduation he has seen but one of the boys—Tex Dnrkin—who somehow got into the lettuce bdt. 
Not seeing the boys is bad enough. Lloyd says, but the last time Notre Dame went over the na­tional broadcasting systems Stolich could hear nothing but static out Salinas way—^which is piling insult on injury. 
We can't remember whether or not we plugged the advancement of brother Jade Gillespie in the world of letters. Jack has moved up from West­field, N.J., to the Elizabeth. N X "Journal," a high-class daily which is probably now up to its elbovra in getting Willkie a first term. Or maybe they are trying to get him a second term as presi­dent of Commonwealth and Southern. 
I think we already covered "Chad Hanna" Me-Hngh and his plastering of the World of Mirth shows through the eastern sector. 
We just discovered another nuptial, tucked away in the back of the sheet in a very old. unanswered letter from Paul Biagioni. who reports that Cari Brisdi, ex. '37, was married on Aug. 11—he is brought back to memory by Biagioni as having lived near Ban r Baldwin in Dillon and having a very Midwayish taste in magazines—so he's married. 
Blag also reports on himself—and a mighty good report—he's doing copy for the Chicago office of Ruthrauff and Ryan, vulgarly referred to as "advertising tycoons" but not by Biaidoni. 
In the same letter comes word that Ray Mc-Gradi, Red McAlpine and Ed Brennan are seen every now and then lunching "on the avenue"— which is better than booting the wolf away from the door. 
McGrath, s^s Paul, is making the senior part­ners of Premier Engraving Co. rub their hands with satisfaction over the work of the new young blood in the organization. 
Brennan is operating as a space salesman for some "class" magazine according to BiagionL We hoiie it's the right class. 
HcAIpine is prospering with a large coal com­pany and is said to be living the life of a squire —as distinguished from esquire. Biagioni reports McAlpine is the owner of a blooded dog—used no dcubt on those slow accounts at the coal company. We quote Biagioni: "He must have othqr hobbies, too. because he called me up the other day and tried to interest me in a - new, amazing kind of chain-letter that ultimately results in free vaca­tions for all," Sounds like a typical Notre Dame deal to me. 
We are here going to insert a public apology which will also be made privately, to "Unl^ Ber­nard Donnelly of the Donnqlly-Eelly Glass Co.. Holland, Mich., whom we "stood up" through a stupid error not too long ago. Barney is now a traveling emissary for said glass company and doing right well. In a recent junket to Detroit wc arranged a luncheon date which, in spite of many hectic 'phone calls, messages, pagings. etc.. failed to mesh. But it will be made shortly, be­cause we are sincerely sorry. 
Spealdng of junkets—in a flying trip to New York this summer your correspondent succeeded in seeing a couple of our bright boys, in between shots at other bright objects, such as short beers in the Village while the band wailed and yon could hang an ax in the air in the backroom. 
One of our enjoyable, though slightly illegible, correspondents recently was Loo Fchlig who scrawled about several of the lads. Lou is located, as you know, in St. Louis, rattling around in the lumber business and prospering in spite of cries about **better times coming." 
' LGU spent some time last winter in the sunny south—^Dallas, Texas, to be exact, and was sur­prised to find so many N.D. boys and the type of southern hospitality so charmingly plugged in 89c novels. He says it's real and I believe him, 
Lou also reports seeing Joe Loftns in St. Iionis in a mysteriously "important" trip—something for Enudsen. no doubt. 
The Fehlig clan is still heading for Notre Dame as the Crow flies—Gene is the latest import, says Lou. 
To insert a personal bit: The "man at worV* sign will be out for the next three months while we wrestle with the problems of building a house. The building isn't so bad—but a word of advice. Don't buy your wives any of those 10c "house magazineir'—every one has Sl.OOO worth of "cut* ideas'* in it. 
Wing in a few letters—we'll answer from tha job site. 
FVom Paal Feky (for November): 
Frwn Hempstead. N. T., ccoaes word thronsh Javes J. Nala>, who opines: *1^s been « good three years or more since I've had any contact with you and I suppose many thinsts have occnred in your young life." Be of good cheer. Jamie boy. we may be shoulder to shoulder at Camp Ogle­thorpe before yoa can say Herr Hitler. 
On a Doore cheery note, Jim recounts with evi­dent pleasure, the fact that he was married in September to Miss lillian Bradley. Jim says he is now "one of the <M sehooU happily married." There are many schools of thoui^t on that. Jamea. 
Jim has a coy way <^ working a lot of names into his copy by remarking that it's been a long time sinee he's seen the following ritizois: Hany Pierce. BMts McCarthy. JaA WalA, Ba^ 0*CouMr. Jim saya that he has heard on the grapevine that all the above are doing nicely, thank yon. 
N«datt himself is working for CXT. Corporation in New York City—one of those international tangles having to do with money and stuff. Jim says he is enthnsiastie about his work. 
In a rather snide manner, Jim asks what hap* pened to the Tigers. Don't you remember your NJ). political-ethics. Jim—the Reds will get yoa if yoa don't watch oat. 
Also from the eastern seabord comes word di^ rectly from Ed Hoyt* currently located at 2523 University Avenue, N.Y.C. Brother Hoyt has made a new business connection as an investi* gator for certain insurance companies, checking into claims, applications, floating kidneys and the like. He saya it's a great job and seems elated over the deaL 
Win Kiric, says Ed. has spent the last three years In the commerdal department of one of the larger banks. The hours must be right, because Will has found time to be married and is now the father of one child (sex unreported to date). Ed denies a nasty rumor that Will named the child "Weatherstrip" in order to .avoid the draft. 
Super-salesman for Frosted Foods Division of ; General Foods Corp. is the present occupation of Tom Haghes. Ed says: "He too is married and lives in the adjoining house." I leave it to you to figure if the house adjoins Hoyt. or Kirk or simply adjoins. Hughes is married to the former belle of Little Rock. Ark. 
At long last comes word of Bill Foley, and now that Tammany is back in the saddle and Dewey is bu ^ painting his bam in Connecticut, Bill is in the office of Bill Dwyer. Brooklyn prosecuting attorney. Foley is taking a ni^ t law course (best training in the world for a Brooklyn job), and is classified as "as^stant to the asristant district attorney." Brooklyn boy makes good. 
Joe SchilHns is telling one and all the virtues of soft white hands caused hy the use of ^octer and Gamble soap products. "Don't Let Romance Pass Yoa By." His beat is over in Jersey where romance is very apt to pass yoa by. Still, he has been married for some time and now brings home rattles and teething rings for a baby daus^ter. 
Ed Ciatty. we are tokl, is doing a bang-up job as football coach at Providence College. Ed brought his team into New York early in October and drt^iped one hy a brii^t red hair to Ijong Island U. The score was G-O. In spite of the 
initial setback. Ed is said to have a \v'ell coached 
aggressive outfit. 
This is hot off the griddle: Our Eastern eye _ tells us that the L.I.U. teams has a lineman traveling under the name "Richard Shellogg" vrho bears a remarkable resemblance to the famous 
N.D. twins. In fact, he is one of the ex-N.D. twins, according to our informant. 
Social Note: Among out of towners visiting the New York World Fair the past summer were Messrs. Arch Gott and Joe Dorgan, of Chicago (Illinois). Joe is selling real estate advertising for the Chicago "Daily News" and Arch is kept busy in the accounting department of Intematonal Har­vester. Both are (were) single, but Arch is said to be tottering right on the brink. On his visit to the East, Arch was getting up at all hours to sign for special delivery letters, all in the same fem­inine hand. 
Word comes that Jerry Gillespie spent a summer at the Catholic Summer School of America at Lake Champlain, N.Y. His last employment record was with Macy and Company. 
So until the Pennsylvania Bar, the Astor Bar, Joe's Back Room and other similar spots ring to the riotous noises of an Army week-end, I guess that's about the picture in this the tenth month of the year of Our Lord, 1940. 
New York City's Fifth avenue pedestrian traffic was jammed by the A. G. Spalding & Bros, sport­ing goods window display which featured Notre Dame and stills from the Rockne picture, relates Francis J. Reilly. Frank's letterhead is that of Haire Publishing Co. in New York. e 
193 8 '''"'^ -^ Williams, 308 East Lake '^* ' Ave., Baltimore, Maryland. 
From Hal Williams: 

There are just a few letters and some miscel­laneous notes to pass along this month. The boys are evidently too concerned with the election and the draft to bother much about correspondence. Anyway, here's what I have: 
Ed Bartnett, the New York Timesman, gets the lead off spot with the best letter of the month. Bartnett—"Mainly I wrote now because I figured you'd be wanting Notre Dame news and I've run into quite a few ol the fellows in the last month. Labor Day I was over in Long Island for a week­end with Chariie Metzger. I saw him again last Saturday when he was up in New Rochelle to be the best man at the wedding of Bill Gallin. 
"Charlie gets married himself next month. Nick Lamberfo dropped into the office about three weeks ago. He was surveying prospects for a newspaper job in New York. Charlie Callahan wanders in every week or so. When I saw him a few days ago he told me he had left Christy Walsh to take the press agent's job for the New York Yankees, a pro-football team in a new league just started up. He says prospects look good. Vic Mercado phoned me yesterday. He's just back from getting his M.A. at Notre Dame and just leaving for Penn where he'll try for a Ph.D. 
"Chuck" Beasley also phoned a few days ago. He's back from the Eagleside Hotel. Beach Haven, NJ"., where he was outside auditor for the sum­mer. Last week, -while out searching for a cup of tea, I found Hank Leader and Tom Healy. Hank was married this summer and is district reporter for the City News Association here. Tom is a reporter on the Long Island 'Star.* Hank reports hearing from Steve Dietridi lately; he's still on that paper down in Trenton. Jim Snllivan stopped in to see me for the first time since January. He's still working at Brentwood State Hospital. While we were out having a. beer we bumped into George McC^vem, ex. '38, who told us he finished up at Fordham and is now -working with a home finance corporation. 
"Just a couple of hours ago Frank Dclaney dropped in to see me. He's here on vacation from his duties as office manager with bis father's bis­cuit company back in Burlington, Iowa. I haven't seen Tom ^iels in quite a long time. As you may have heard, he's had two very tough breaks this summer with his father and one of his brothers dying. Occasionally I see Foots Eliot* Red Sclafani and Bill Mnrphy, all ex. *3S men, around town. Haven't seen Vin Lipsio in a long time, although McGovem said he'd seen him fairly recently. The fellow who lives next door to me tells met that John Schemmer is prominent in the Law School up at Harvard and is on the staff of the school paper. 
"Delaney, by the way, is supposed to come back later tonight -n-ith Bill Costello, who, I think he said, is going to Fordham Law. Metzger told me he put up with Tex Haggar a couple of days around the middle of the summer. Oh yes. Art Philson. studying at Cornell Medical School, was at Gallin's wedding." 
Ed also adds that around the latter part of August he was token out of the radio department of the "limes" and put on general asignment. His first story was a suicide. During two weeks in September he was doing the night electric sign bulletins on the "Times" Building while the regu­lar man was on vacation. 
Thanks, Ed., for the s\vell letter and the ex­cellent coverage on the metropolitan area. I wish we could get just as good reports on other areas .IS we do New York and Chicago. Incidentally, how about some dope on the Cleveland boys? Haven't heard about them for some time. You can still -write out there, can't you? 
From Leonard Tobin in Taftville, Conn., I re­ceived this communication on Oct. 1. "This is my first letter to you but I assure you I never have any news for the column or I would write often. My purpose is to let you know of my engagement. . . . The girl is Miss Ann M.Connelly, a school teacher; the time. Thanksgiving. I was a school teacher for two years but gave it up to go into the textile business. 
"Here's some other news: George Fitzpatrick is still teaching school, Reynolds is with a paper in New York and Bob DuBois is married. I'd like to be able to send some more news along but in this next neck of the woods one very seldom sees a Notre Dame man let alone hears any news." 
Bud Shcnvf>od wrote this in the middle of Sep­tember: "I'm late as usual but then I'm a very sick man. and besides I have to listen to the Tigers every afternoon since they are American League pennant contenders. (Sic!) I am getting along fine now. My lung is almost iiormal again and I feel fine. It will be a month or two yet though before I will be able to go back to work. This is the life. I suppose I will just get settled in Tarrytown and then conscription will put me in the same spot again. 
"I received a letter from Tom Hutchinson and he was moaning about the troubles of moving. He also enlightened me as to what my sickness is. It seems that he -was very surprised that I hadn't collapsed before after living with you for four years. I also received a letter from John Cleaiy but he didn't have much to say except that he had been to see us and found that we had left for Flint. .. . By the way, Paul Hughes, another Flint boy, was married this summer to Miss Madeline King." 
Bud's address is 160 East Hamilton Avenue, Flint, Mich. 
Pat GoFHan, that genial Irishman who was In the class b^ind us, was in Baltimore on Sunoay; Oct. 6, and we had several hours together talking over old times and Notre Dame. Pat is now going to Georgetown Law at night and plans to get some job in the Library of Congress. His ad­dress is 100 B Street, N.E., Washington. D. C. 
Pat said be bumped into Chuck Daly in Atlantic City this summer and that Chuck told him thatt i^euton Hee passed his Indiana bar examinations and the following day was called into the Marines. He is now with the Third R.O.C. in Quantico as a second lieutenant or general or something. Pat added that he saw Fenton in Washington one day recently and that Fenton is the same as ever. How about a letter. General Mee? 
Pat also said that he heard from George Morris, the Detroit redhead with the silver tongue, and that George is now impatiently waiting for word on whether he passed the Michigan bar examina­tions. Tom Cavanaagfa, another Detroit boy, was married to Miss Mary Mahoney* late of the St. 3Iary's finishing school across the road from NJ)., said P^t, but I think we've carried the item already. 
Hie Irishman said that Tommy Flynn, also studying law at Georgeto\vn, lives across the street and that he bumps into a lot of N.D. boys in Washington, who are studying at C.U., George­town or living off the Government. Included in this group are Bob Egan and Bob McGrath' Oh yes, I also understand from Fat that J^rry Green, who was studying at Catholic University, did not return to school this year because of illness. 
Before we got around to discussing the N.D.­Ohio State game, Pat mentioned that Vince Ryan, ex. of the *39 class, is now living at the Knights of Columbus home in Baltimore. I'll look him up. 
Pat and I made plans to gather all the N.D. Ix^s in the vicinity for an old-fashioned get-to­gether and celebration after the Navy game in Baltimore on Nov. 9. 
On Oct. 11 Ed Blattingly, of Cumberland. Md.. sent me a clipping from the Cumberland paper. Said tne clipping. "Ed Mattingly made a 'clean sweep* of championship golfing honors at the Cumberland Coimtry Club for the 1940 season by defeating Emler Elbin 1 up in a 36 hole final match. Mattingly won the spring championship several months ago and yesterday took the fall crown," Ed is still working for his father in the produce bu^ness. I expect to see him in Balti­more for the Na\*y game. 
In the Oct. II issue of the "Scholastic" on page 20, under the headline "What Happens to Football Ifcroes After Graduation." I came across some *38 names. 
Joe Kakartdi, so the article goes, is playing pro football with the Chicago Cardinals along with Bcinor, Tonelli and ZontinL Joe Raetz is still serving as an assistant coach at St. Mary's out on the Pacific Coast. Ennio Arboit is at Spaulding Institute in Peoria. Gene Ely at St. Mary's in Michigan City and Pat HcCarty at Ursuline High School," Youngstown. Ohio. Harvey Foster is now a G-man in Puerto Rico and Denny Emanuel is at Iowa Medical School. Chuck Sweeney is still holding forth with the oil company in the Bend. The article concludes, "Charles O'Reilly and Leon­ard Skofffauid of the 1937 squad are working for firms in Chicago. Another of the ex's whose efforts are devoted to training younger boys is Walter Hardull, also of the '38 class. Walt is engaged by the Coal Township High School in Shamoldn, Fa. Even Hollywood gets a share of the former Fighting Irish—Adrian Race is work­ing at M-G-M Studios." 

In another issue of the "Scholastic" I noticed that the boys now Uvins in Sorin have chipped together to purchase six steel chairs and a glider for the famous old porch. Imagine!—a glider on Sorin's porch. Next thing, I suppose, awnings on the windows and beach chairs and umbrellas on the lawn. And that isn't all—Freshman Hall, after years of rumors and counter rumors—^has been torn down. 
And now for a few Baltimore notes. A few days ago I received a note from Russell Kelly, ex. '37, who is now living in Baltimore, coming from Louisville. I called him several times but haven't been able to reach him yet. We're getting quite a delegation here and it won't be long before we'll be able to start a club. 
Bill Coar, studying at Georgetown, dropped over to see me last Sunday, Oct. 3.—^but I was out of to\vn. Bill, I understand, is planning to take in the Army game. 
My sister, a freshman at Notre Dame college here in Baltimore, reports that there are two girls in the Sophomore class who are always talking about Notre Dame (Ind.) and their brothers. One is Marcella Mulhem. a sister of Art and Jim, of Palisade, N.J. The other girl is Dotty Broslus, sister of our cwn Chuck Brosins. Incidentally, in the Oct. 7 issue of the "Religious Bulletin" there was a reference to Chuck though his last name wasn't mentioned. A note said that a certain 1938 graduate had an interview arranged for a '39 boy which resulted in a job for the fellow. The letter also points out that Chuck received the highest mark in the C.P.A. exams held last year in Mary­land.—Something that Chuck didn't tell me when he mentioned that he passed his C.P.A. examina­tion. Congratulations. 
In another issue of the "Bulletin" it was an­nounced that Ridiard F. Leahy, of our class, from Minneapolis, Minn., was killed in an automobile accident this summer. No other details. It was also announced that Jack Kohn, of the '39 class, died. To the parents of these two boys and to Tom Shiels the sympathy of the class. 
That's all the news for the month except for these two items that I just remembered. During the premiere of "Knute Rockne—All American" at South Bend several of the movie stars who came for the celebration stopped in Hickey's Ham­burger stand and, after eating several hamburgers, told the proprietor, Don Rickey, that they were the best hamburgers they had ever eaten. There are several rumors going around that they asked Don to move his stand to Hollywood but at this time the rumors could not be confirmed. Tom Hutchinson, still disi>ensing publicity for the In­dianapolis P\iblic Library, now does quite a bit of broadcasting over the Indianapolis station and has received several by-lines for special articles in the magazine sections of the Indianapolis gazettes. . . . Advertising rates upon request. 
I hope that the fellows who attend the N.D. football games will send in a report of what *38 boys they met after or before the game. I'll try to take care of the Army and Navy games, though I'm not sure at this tame whether I can get several days off from work for the Army game. 
There are many of the boys who haven't re­ported on their activities since graduation. How about coming through with a note or a card on some news? In the meantime I'll try and drum up some interest by sending out some letters and cards. 
I would also like to know what fellows have been drafted. That is all. 
Bob Fembadi ranks among the first 15 in the third year class at the Cornell Law School which he entered in the fall of '38. As a result of his scholastic record, he has been selected by the faculty for membership on the board of editors of the Cornell Law quarterly. 
193 9 ^''^^^^ DeConrsey, 205 Bmah Creek. 
* ' ^ ' Kansas City, Missoari. 
From Vince DeCoorsey: 
All the tine intentions a proscrastinating class secretary can develop couldn't have produced a column that would have made the deadline this month. Were it not for the Georgia Tech game it is quite probable that there would have been 
n. nice, clean, white space in the "Alumnus" in­stead of this rather soiled and stale news. We had the good fortune to be able to drive back for that particular game, and really it was one of the finest we have seen in the stadium, the close score is no measure of the superiority of the first squad over the southern boys. And then, returning from the week-end, with considerable information gathered here and there, found two nice letters waiting, which breaks a void in that department. 
The campus hasn't changed much, except that they've run a tractor over most of Freshman Hall, and the seeds that were planted about six years ago, finally sprouted into sidewalks on the northeast section of the campus. Here and there were a few strange structures, but we didn't ask many questions: generally speaking the place looks about the same. 
Arriving first in the cafe (for some reason or the other) bumped into John Savord, who is the big paper and magazine man this year, still at law school. Just about to help himself to some of that delicious hamburger was the pride of the South, Joe Lewis, up for the game, and hoping to be able to make other games this year. Joe says that he is with the Metropolitan Life Insur­ance Co. Dick Anton walked in with a very lovely Louise and we were with him until leaving Chicago Sunday. Dick is still at the Drover's Bank, going to DePaul at night for law. working on a commission in the naval reser\'e. and finding a little time for eating and considerably less for sleeping, although work is not primarily respon­sible for that. 
More seen in the cafe. . . . Bob Schorsch, whom we were not able to catch up with . . . Gcorse Neumann, John Walsh about whom more later . . , Tom King, up from Fort Wayne with his wife for the game. He's with International Busi­ness Machines there, says that Jim McArdle is with him, and that Paul Donovan who is sup­posed to write to me for them, is at Cornell. studying law. 
After the game bumped into Jack Gillespie, who is finished with engineering and now study­ing law: Bill McVay, also in law at NJ). (Bill says that the lawyers now have the run of the local pubs, and that he is living at the Oliver— hotel, not bar). Pat Gorman, says the same source, is at Georgetown this year, also in last year law. From somewhere we heard that Jobn Starkie was still at Harvard Business School. 
Just about everywhere we turned someone asked if we had run into Frank Parks, and we didn't. If ho was there and we missed him. he must have been •'A-ell hidden—no one in any of the bars had seen him. But perhaps better luck next time. 
Oh, yes, also in the cafe, met Mr. Frank O'Malley. who said that Charlie Nebwn, Frank O'Langblin, and Bob Heywood were at the Uni­versity of Chicago. AVe only hope that this is cor­rect, our information pad is not so legible here. If so, a letter from Heywood is imperative. Frank Fransioli was reported at the game, but among about 50,000 others, he was one we didn't see. 
Also after the game, coming out of the cafe. 
bumped into Hike M—fna, vith his wife.' Mike broofi^t ftstoanins news: m i Heeper, BB 4 Gart­land, and Beb Beadka, have all taken imto them­selves a helpmate apiece. How the mifi^ty have fallen I We forgot to ask what Hiice was doing, he said that he was living on the Sooth Side of the great aty of Chicago. 
In the LaSalle bomped into Loais DaPra, a lawyer who received his degree with onr class with an average somewhere around 95. JJon got his law degree last year, and was down this time celebrating the opening of his own law office in East Chicago. Ind. Address is 3624 Main, East Chicago. Then in a romn in the LaSalle, Jade Benedict, John Walsh, Jee Dray, George Neraann, Dick Anten, and assorted others cavcvted for hours. Joe carried the line sticks in the game, quite the dapper young man doing it too. He's with International Business Mafhinea in Sonth Bend, and doing qxilte well. George Neumann de­cided tiiat the life of a merchant was not the one for him and so took himself away from Sears Roebuck and entered upon some sort of promo­tion work for some insurance company ( whidi is very definite information; we'll have to ask Red to write and explain ail over again what it is he is doing and with whom). On the same day that the transition from mail order catalogue thnmber to insurance executive occurred John Walsh took himself out of the insurance game and got an honest job with United Sutes Gypsum Co. in Chicago. Jack Benedict is working (he got his degree last year) with some cwnpany that sounded like the Warren Tool Co. but which is probably wrong. Al Van Haffd. one of Dean Konop's boys in the Law School, was supposed to come up to the room and probably did, but by that time we had left. Al is doing all right according to re­ports, but has gained considerable poundage he told us over the phone. 
This jolly little session didn't last too long, since we had to return to Chicago that ni^t, but before leaving we learned that Larry Satton. after h.iv­ing his Master's, started to work on a Doctorate, passed a test for the diplomatic service, secured an appointment and then on the spur of the mo­ment decided to see if he could get a job, went out, and found one—and now doesn't know what to do with it. 
Ariving home rather tired Sunday ni^ t found two letters waiting under the door. The first was from Kay SdOedc. at long last, and Ray wrote from 802 North Brandywine, Schenectady, N.Y. He is still with the General Electric Co., worKng in the accounting department, disbursement divi­sion, and says that he has no complaints about the job. Ray is still taking courses, this time auditing, and hoping for the best. He says that Charlie BCagner, '40, joined him this year. 
On his vacation, Ray went home to South JCl-WEukee. met Beh Diecfcelaun and Dick (TMcUa. Bob was going back to Harvard to Business School and Dick was going to Marquette Law after a hectic summer as a floor walker at the Boston Store. 
The second and last letter to come my way was from Dan Sheedy, out of Buffalo. Dan has had a rather interesting time of It after leaving schooL Finishii^ Wharton School of Knance at Fenn., he went to worit for his father and then joined the Air Reserves and will be at home after Dec. 1 at Mitchell Field. He says that he is still angle, and has to be for one year because of the govern­ment's regulations. When he wrote the letter he was busily engaged in being asristant manager of the Buffalo In^ans of the American Leagoe (pro football). Dan also included a lot of information about the Buffalo hajn. Chack Na ^ Is with the Ellicott Faint Co. in that dty, and has' a good job there. Jae Byaa Is a rate-diecker (whatever that is, Joe is gdng to have to write and explain) for 
some insurance company. Binjr Binkowski played -with the Indians, made a very good impression with the fans, too. Then Bing moved on to the Naval Air training station in Chicago. . . . Alex SbeliogK is playing \vith the Indians, and his brother IVed is for some reason at Long Island University, which might mean something. Joe Lcising is with the Naval Air Reserve at Pen­sacola. 
Dan's letter certainly seemed to be filled with 
airplanes, and by this time next month maybe it 
will be even more so. The draft should catch a 
few^ of the boys and we wonder if it would be too 
much to ask if each one drawing a lucky number 
would drop me a line. Perhaps it won't be so bad, 
at least there'll be something to do and somewhere 
to go. At home we've dusted off the old book of 
war songs, and are waiting to be called up as a 
captain, which seems to be a popular commission 
these days, and easy to get too. But really it 
would be nice to know just how many of the boys 
are caught, so that we can get some idea of the 
chances of being in the next. This class is pretty 
representative, and percentages ought to be some­
what better known if a survey of the sort is 
taken. So if you're going to join the army, volun­
tarily or otherwise, or know of someone in the 
class who is, drop me a line or two and tell me 
about it—we'H see what happens. 
That seems to be about all for this month, but next time, with the poll of the draft-dodgers and assorted letters coming in, perhaps better and bigger space fillers. At least we hope so. 
George Dempsey postcardss that he is now em­ployed by the Pusey and Jones Corp., Wilmington, Del. George spent last year attending school in the graduate division of the Wharton School of Finance and Commerce, University of Pennsj*!­vania. His home address in Wilmington is 220 W. 14th St, Wilmington. 
James J. Green is a private vdth the First Weather Squadron, 13th Platoon, Air Corps. Tent City, March Field, Calif. He is preparing for ad­mission to the corps as a fiying cadet, according to a letter received by Registrar Robert Riordan. 
Ridiard E. Weldi is in the analytical depart­ment of the State Highway Department, I.exing­ton, Ky. 
A note from Jim Clifford says that he has been ciedit manager for Sears, Roebuck and Co. in their Springfield. Ohio, store for the past year. Jim relates that a few Notre Dame men haunt his part of the country. He sees Dan Shonvlin, '14, quite regularly. Andy Hellmnth is a busy man az-ound town. Stationed at Wright field in Dayton are Bob Bolz, Gene Kicfer and "Burly" Grimes. Tom Mclntyre is with Sears in Muncie. Ind.. and Jim Motsdiall is working for his father in Detroit. 
1940 ^^^^ *^- Sanford. 3934 N. Maryland ' '" " Ave, AGIwankee, Wisconsin. 
From Bob Sanford: 

Our class is stepping out, fellows. Last month we didn't do badly and this month there is plenty of news. A few of you heeded my plea for mail, and the regular contributors came through in fine stj'le. Of course, this means that we have more to live up to and, therefore, gentlemen of '40, more news is absolutely necessary if we are to carry on. 
It's too bad Jade Wilkinson's letter didn't come a few days earlier, because I would have liked to put it in last month's publication rather than now. Pm really sorry. Jack, that you had to wait this long, but I was very glad to hear from you and hope you vdll write again real soon. Jack sends the following: 
"I was very fortunate upon graduation in ob­
taining a job as city reporter on the Portland 'Press-Herald* in Portland, Maine. I also write the waterfront column on this same daily. As 1 majored in journalism at N.D., this break has really been just exactly what I wanted. Oh yes. I also have had my application as an **nBigTi |n tbft local Naval Reser\'e accepted, and this means quite a bit in these dark days. Until later this is Station M-a-i-n-c signing off, and wishing you and the rest of the class of *40 the best of luck". I really want to hear more news from that Stap^ tion. Jack, and it's up to you to take care of it. By the way, fellows, I send my copy into the office by the fifteenth of every month, so please try to time your correspondence accordingly. 
Dave Sprafke came through with his report of the engineers, but he begs you mechanical minded men to send him more news so that he will be able to print a real article next month. For those of ycu who haven't written him yet (and he tells me there are a great number) his address is 38 Bronson Ave., Meriden, Conn. Dave's news for the months runs like this: "The football season opened once more, but I find it hard to take interest. More and more it seems that the University has slipped behind me. No wonder the alumni organi­zation finds itself in a hard spot if everybody falls into the same mood as I. ^me seems to press me from all sides. I even have to rush to get in my required daily duties. What I wouldn't have given to have had a ringside seat at the premiere of "Knute Rockne" a few weeks ago. Judging by the radio plugs that were coming in fast and furious, it must have been a gala affair. I read every account of it I could get my hands on. 
"But enough about myself and here is my second report concerning the activities of the engineers: John Else (E.E.) has sent word from Detroit where he is employed at the Diesel plant of Gen­eral Motors. Up until a few weeks ago, Johnny was at work on tests of various automotive size Diesels but expressed a desire to be transferred to the power plant, a request which has been granted. Frank Driscoll (M.E.) who has been at work in the same General Motors plant has recently re­covered from a short illness. Report has it that he is now back on his feet and feeling tip-top. Prank's folks recently moved to Detroit causing him to break the apartment arrangements he and Else had been sharing. 
"Robert 'Moose' Donovan (M.E.} is feeling right at home at the Commonwealth Edison Com­pany in Chicago. Moose is in the training course there and so far life has been a round of lectures and observations of 'job' routines and reports. He is sharing an apartment %vith three other fellows and has played host to John Hicinbothcm. Walter 'Chauncey* Dray, and Steve Sitko (all M.E.'s) for short visits. Ed Pratt (A.E.) has entered another leg of his training course at Pratt & Whitney in Hartford, Conn, In addition to a full day in the factory, Ed now attends two hours of theory lec­tures, twice a week, delivered by various members of the U. of Conn, en^neering faculty. Ed and several co-members of the training course have 'chipped in' and bought themselves an airplane and are now engrossed in learning to fiy. Tliis has been done on their own and is outside of the course at the factory." 
Nice going, Dave. You engineers are really doing yourselves up in great glory. 
Indirectly I received an excerpt from a letter of Russ Jandoli, and by the way. graduates of the Arts and Letters College, I would like to hear from you. In this short excerpt Russ says; 'The Jersey alumni doled out to the incoming freshmen from this sector about a fortnight ago. Present were Harry Stevenson (who wall play football with the professional Newark Bears), John Kelly, Jack Pindar, who is back at N.D. in the Law School: Joe McKeon and Bill Small, who are doin^ things for Uurphy Varnish in Newark". Russ also informs us that he has been admitted to the Graduate School of Journalism of Colum­bia University, and should be out in June with anlLS. 
Johniir Wcfctter found his way up to Milwau­kee, after stopping off at N.D. for a few days, and showed a number of the Milwaukee toys up by landing a job in a few weeks. He is now em­ployed in Hilprint Inc. and is broadening his knowledge of art. Johnny says he likes the job and the fellows are almost as swell as the boys at NJ>. John Dean does not tend the beaches as life guard any more, but has turned to coaching and is brining forth a championship eleven at St. Robert's School, his old Alma Mater. Dan HatWlr, who attends the Tliursday noon luncheons of our Milwaukee club 'regularly, tells me that congratulations are in order for Tom McCarthy, of the Engineering College, because he has just been married. Congratulations Tom, and Mrs. Tom. 
I was down at N.D. for the premiere and the game a few weeks ago and saw a great number of the fellows. The law students were all sticking together and seemed to be having a very good time. All seated at one table in one of the places in South Bend were Jchnnr Ward. Ernie Timpani, Ed Kelly, and John Barry, with Bob SaHivan and Jim McGoldrick acting as official handshakers. I no sooner walked into the lobby of the Oliver Hotel than WaBy Borer and Punch Henecui w-ere trying to sell me something or other. A little later I saw Doc Carran, but he was too busy to give me much information, so I will have to wait till he writes before I can pass it on. 
At another table I found Bill O'Brien, Tom Lloyd, Bill Hocan, and Johnny Gavan. Bill O'Brien is working in Chicago, Tom Lloyd is still in Chicago, and Hogan continues his activities at N.D. Johnny told me that "Big Jim** Donoghne is no longer with him and Jerry Donovan in Chicago, and that he and Jerry have moved. Jerry had a broken wrist and so he decided to stay in the apartment and take no chances of having it hurt again. Joe DeFranco was running around town with a friend and having a good time. Eddie Jacohi solved one problem that had been bother­ing me for a long time. Floyd Sollivan and Phil CarmU are now going to law school some place in Iowa. Sully and I were to drive down to South Bend together, but a few days before we were to leave he wrote me and told me he would be unable to make it, but said nothing more. Thanks, Eddie. At least I won't have to worry about that any more. Hank Engel was sitting in a booth in the Oliver Coffee Shop and told roe that he drives down to S.B. every week-end. Joe Hart was up in the Alumni Office at the same time I was. but didn't have a chants to tell me much nf his activities. 
In all the time I was in S.B. I didn't see Pat Gorman and I still can't understand it; how^ever, I ^ d see his buddy. Bill HcVay. As I was walk­ing across the campus I met Norb Schickel and he said that he was working in South Bend and doing rather w-ell. When I was passing dear old Sorin Hall, Tommy Malligan and Bill McCloy yelped "hello". Heard that the two Dehhanty boys are working hard. Ed is in the accounting department of the American Gas & Electric Serrice Corp., N.Y.C, working now in connection with construction at the Twin Branch plant of Indiana & Michigan Electric Co., Mishawaka. Jim is doing cost accounting work for the Studebaker Corp. in S.B. 
After I returned I was wondering what some of the other fellows were doing. I wish all of you would let me know somehow. Just a penny post­card will do the trick and it will mean a lot to all 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
of US. I vrould like to hear particularly from Stan Adamonis, Dick Albert, Enrique Arias, "Bis Dave" Bernard, tvith 5ome California news. Bill BcccfaeU Don Caird, Herb Connellr, "Truck" Crane, John Donohae, Bill Fay, Jerry Flynn, Dick Lynff. and all the rest of you. There is plenty of news missing and I wish you would all come throufrh and help me out. 
Bud linnehan wrote a letter that is just the type I like to receive. From the Knights of Co­lumbus Club in Gary, Ind., Bud says: "Have just spent a bit of time reading about our glorious alumni and noticed your frantic plea for some news, and, beins a particularly kind-hearted soul. I thought I might be able to give you a little info about some of the boys. 
"First of all Mr. and Mrs. George Becker were the most proud parents of a little baby girl this past Sept. 6." [Congratulations, George!] "Eddie Bfattbews is in Chicago bleeding money oat of Household Loan Co. customers. Bill Radigan, of Gary, is -working with Radigan Furniture and getting serious. Jim Conncll, my roommate of our first year, graduated from the TJ. of Missouri and passed through Chi on his way back from a vacation in N.Y.. so Bob DonoTan, Jim and my­self had an enjoyable evening. Tom McKenna, like myself, is working for Carnegie-Illinois Steel Co. and is living here at the same place. 
I hear John Henebry is in the Air Corps. Clark Keen is going in for some graduate work at N.D. in en^neering. Notb Sdiickel, Ernie Williams, Walt Dray and Jnan Cintron (all M.E.*s) are down at South Bend earning their money. I hope this will help you out, and between you and me I think orchids are due George and Dorothy Becker —^7018 Cregier Ave., Qiicago—the baby is really cute." 
I agree with you. Bud, plenty of orchids to the Beckers. Letters like that really make this job interesting, and after that fine example I hope more of you -will answer my frantic plea for news. 
Just received some last minute news and I know you want to read it. Pat HcFarland is in a training course with Bethlehem Steel Corp., Quincy, Mass. Jim Nelson is assisting research engineer. Anaconda Copper Mining Co., Anaconda. Hont. Bill O'Hare is a graduate assistant in the Department of Government at Boston University. John Martin is in the insurance business and at Fordham Law School. Lou Wagner is with the Haynes StelUte (foundry) at Kokomo, Ind. Harry PhiUips is a sales representative, working with 
H. B. Stillman, '24. in Detroit. Bad Centner is doing personnel work for General Mills Co. in Buffalo. N.Y. 
"Hie news is already exhausted this month, but I'm sure that more of you will be writing letters now that good old N.D. is off to a great season, and when that National Championship comes roll­ing home, we will all be homesick for the Golden Dome and be more than willing to write letters. If any of you go to the N.D.-Army party, please send me a detailed report of the affairs won't you? It's about time Shor^ Sanford did a little more snooping for news for next month. 
Late report from Bill O'Hare: "Here's a bit of news as to what is what in and around Boston town. 
"I met Joe Lavery the other day. and he is most definitely at Harvard Law; incidentally, be li\es with Red Doogfaerty, another Harvardian. Joe and I have been hopping around with Lou Mceoni who is at Boston Universi^ Law School. and Lou really likes this part of the country, but as yet he is not acclimated to co-education. Neal Geary is back from his wanderings and is at Boston Law School—he dropped in to see me jresterday and is as fit as a fiddle. 
"Tom Rogan is working with Pratt and Whit­ney in Connecticut, and Harry Kcefe is an engi­neer with Stone and Webster in Boston. So far as I know, Ernie Williams is engineering in Mishawaka and is doing pretty well from the social viewpoint, and even better when the technical side is considered, according to last reports. 
"None of the lads hereabouts has decided to be­come engaged, nor has a marriage taken place— to my knowledge; perhaps when I next get some information for you it will center about those two items. As for yours truly, well, I'm a graduate assistant in Government here at Boston University and I like it. In fact, it's not too bad at all. and when June rolls around I hope to get the AJIf." 
More adds from the Placement Bureau: Leo Bever has enrolled for some Latin courses at Providence. R.I., and will be there for the year. Kecran McKenney is selling insurance for the Lincoln National down in King City. Mo. Jim Cullather is a student in the Wharton School, U. of Pennsylvania. 
Dick Ames, on the campus for the Georgia Tech game, reported that he was doing seismograph work for the Texas Oil Co.. in New Martinsville, 
W. Va. He had then been in West Virginia for eight w^eeks but expected to move soon to Pennsyl­vania, in the same work. 
John Doermer writes that he. Al Swanser, Cliff Letcher and Joe Bums are all working as clerks for the FBI in Washington. D.C. John and Joe live together at 2501 Brentwood Road. Washing­ton. D. C. Doermer and Swanser are attending the Georgetown Law School. Perhaps the other two are also, but there is no report on them. 
Through the co-operation of Jim Malloy. *30, an executive of the company, the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co., recently added three *40 men to its staff: Al Kessing and Bob Howard, in Charleston, W. Va., and John Welch, in Fair­mont, W. Va. Kessing left a job with the In­vestors Snydicate in South Bend and. in doing so, broke up the apartmenting trio of Paul Glass fStudebaker's). Jack Cole (Indiana Bell Tel.) and Kessing. 
But Joe Hart, now in South Bend with the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, keeps the local '40 population up to par. John Barrett Morgan is temporarily with the PVatomac Electric Power Co. in Washington. D.C. Willis Walker weighed in with the Toledo Scale Co. Paul Morri­son is with the La Boitaux Corp.. Cincinnati. 
Dan O'Neill, South Bend, has changed from Philip Morris & Co. to the Bendix Aviation Corp.. in the accounting department. Bill DiUon is at the Northwestern Unversity Law School. Rocfa Lc Page is holding forth for the present as com­plaint manager of the Beaux Arts Apartment Hotel, E. 44th St., N.Y.C. Clyde Archer sent word that he was a reporter on the Parkersburg "Morn­ing News." in Parkersburg, W. Va. 
Walter Kenneth Warbnrton is back in the Bend and on the campus, for graduate courses in Social Work. The Femeding twins left in late September for officers' training on a cruise with the Naval Reserves to Panama, Havana and points south. They expected to be in training for several months at least. Wonder if the Admiral knows yet which is Tom and which is John! 
• Ray Zaller pens that he has landed an engineer­ing job with Vultee Aircraft, a sunny California plant. He adds that N.D. grid fans are plentiful in the "Promised Land"—he's been besieged for N.D.-Southem California ducats. 
The supplement to the September issue of the International Kre Fighter magazine has been written by James J. Gibbons, who received his master's degree in *40. His thesis, for which he received the highest grade of any student sub­mitting a thesis, detailed the history and work of the International Association of Fire Fighters. 
Hymie Crane is listed at Pratt & Whitney. Hartford. Conn., as a timekeeper. Hymie passes on the information that he and Adrian Francooer nre living together. Adrian is also with Pratt ft ^Vhitney. 
Charlie Oshinski is with Ball Band, Mishawaka. next to the Bend. 
SPOTUGHT ALUMNI 
(Continoed from Vtge 11) ' 

to promote a wider dissemination of Christian literature. 
"The idea is based on the belief that Catholic reading matter is an antidote for many present evils, and, secondly, that there are multitudes of our people who are entirely unaware even of the existence of such literature, to say noth­ing of their unfamiliarity with it. 
"A free reading room is provided in the hope of bringing together 'the reader and the book,' — which will benefit the reader and encourage both authors and publishers to continue the supply. 
"In a. world overflowing with mate­rialistic distractions the average person is involuntarily and unconsciously inoc­ulated with germs of error and indiffer­ence and worse. In the bombardment of streamlined best sellers, spiritual values are largely ignored or forgotten and the foundations destroyed on which must rest the security of the nation as well as the hoi)e of salvation. 
"The Church, of course, has many remedies, but one helpful corrective for the debilitating deluge of Godless liter­ature can be found in the pages of books and magazines written by authors who understand and appreciate Christian ethics. Since most people cannot escape contact with contaminating influences the Thomas More Library hopes to sup­ply a prophylactic, or therapeutic, — at least an antidote, — and there is now in formation an ANTIDOTE CLUB, to be composed of members who will pledge themselves to read and study Catholic pamphlets, magazines or books a cer­tain time each day or each week. Appli­cations are now being received. 
"Catholic Action is the great need of the day, and Catholic Action can come only from Catholic minds. To have Cath­olic minds we must be informed. Hany of the mists of misinformation and irre­ligion can be swept away by currents of fresh air set in motion by the pens of Catholic writers, and the new project is one attempt to provide proper channels to this end. The remarkable success so far attained is ample evidence that the need exists and is coming to be recog­nized. 
"The library was formed on a "not for profit' basis and will attempt to carry in stock or to secure every worthwhile Catholic publication. The trustees, of which there are five at this time, receive no compensation and all profits from sales or subscriptions must be used to expand and to extend the facilities of the project." 
Do You Know the Answers? No! Do Your Friends Ask the Questions? Yes! Do You Favor Constructive Catholic Action? Yes! Do You Like to Solve Problems the Easy Way? Yes! 
The American Hierarchy, through the National Organization for Decent Literature, of which Most Eev. John F. Noll, LL.D. '15, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, is chairman, has recognized the need and sanctioned the crusade. 
Notre Dame, through its Student Commission for Decent Literature, publishers of the widely circulated pamphlet, "No Smut," and more re­cently through the appointment of Notre Dame as the leader of this division of the new National Catholic Student Federation, has extended mili­tant cooperation. 
Now, as announced in the October ALUMNUS, alumni can participate in this crusade. 
You don't know all the answers, at least in the best form for missionary activity. Your friends. Catholic and non-Catholic, expect you — as Notre Dame men — to know. You obviously subscribe to the movement to crush iilth in print, and its more wholesome corrollary, to encourage clean literature. 
All you have to do is to list your questions that need answering, for yourself or friends, or choose a few spots where you could logically leave these Catholic answers. Send this list to the 
Student Commission for Decent Literature Notre Dame, Indiana 
Write to 

The boys are working on a selection of the best pamphlets in various fields. They will send you the ones which most adequately fit your needs. 
(The perpetuation of the work requires some financial support, the minimum for which would be a sum suflicient to cover the actual cost of the pamphlets you need, estimated at ten cents each.) 
The boys are also working on the preparation of a pamphlet of special Notre Dame significance, prepared from the famous Religious Bulletins of Bishop O'Hara. Proceeds from the sale of this, and from surplus contributions in connection with the pamphlet service, will be used to supply the armed forces, of which Bishop O'Hara is now Bishop, with Catholic literature in their camps. 
This is Catholic Action, •vvith a distinctive Notre Dame flavor. 
This is the clean, hard fight for which Notre Dame is famous. 
You can help your pastor, your local schools, your Council, your friends, and your family, by utilizing this Notre Dame service. 
They all, as well as you, are welcome to make their own requests. 
or  
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION  THE STUDENT COMMISSION  THE PREFECT OF RELIGION  
Noire Dame, Indiana  FOR DECENT LITERATURE  Notre Dame, Indiana  
Notre Dame, Indiana  





