The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
James E. Armstrong, '25 Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37 Managing Editor 
John F. Laughlin, '48 Editorial .Assistant 

ALUMNI APPOINTED 
Class Secretaries Meet 


TO TRUSTEE BOARD 
Two new alumni members and member-at-large have been 
For Campus Conference 
to the University's Associate Board o£ 
All but a handful of tlie ALUM­NUS' 46 year-round "foreign" corres­pondents from coast to coast and bor­der to border congregated at tlie Mor­ris Inn on the Notre Dame campus the weekend of Januar)' 17 for the 1957-58 biennial Class Secretaries Conference. 
Arriving Friday, the secretaries were guests of tlic new officers and board of directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association at a reception and smoker in tlie Mahogany Room. Newly-elect­ed board members were introduced by new President Francis L. Laydcn, '36, and Honorar)' President J. Patrick Canny, '28. Board and secretaries watched a premiere showing of "Notre Dame Football Highlights of 1957." 
" The class secretaries were up bright and early Saturday morning for Mass celebrated in tlie Alumni Hall chapel by Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., of the Notre Dame Foundation. Fol­lowing breakfast tlie secretaries em­barked on a hea\'y schedule of panelSj workshops and discussions. 
The opening session of the confer­ence began with a discussion of "The Class Column" led by Louis F. Buck­ley, '28, of Boston, Mass., and James 
N. Motschall, '39, of Detroit, Mich. Franklyn C. Hochreiter, '35, of Balti­more, Md., led an open forum on the "Election and Role of Class Officers." John N. Cackley, Jr., managing editor of the ALUMNUS and NOTRE DAME, spoke on "Editorial Problems" and polled tlie group on publication policy. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Directof of tlie Notre Dame Founda­tion, was the principal luncheon speak­er, previewing the 1958-68 Foimdation period. 
The afternoon business session open­ed with John P. Huriey, '25, of Toledo, C ; James T. Doyle, '31, of Evanston, 111., and Al Lesmez, '45, of Long Is­land, N. Y., composing a panel on "Re­unions." John L. Wiggins, '43, of Los 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Onicc, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 

Angeles, Calif., and John P. Dcasy, '56, of Chicago, 111., led a general discussion of "Special Class Problems." 
Reunion class secretaries discussed plans for dib coming June with local reunion chairmen of the various classes. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of the Uni­versity, and James E. Armstrong, Sec­retar}' of the Alumni Association, were die main speakers at tlie dinner which officially closed the conference. Most of tlie class secretaries remained on campus for Sunday Mass at Sacred Heart Church before departure. 
Among class secretaries attending the conference were; James E. Sanford. *15, Chicago, 111.; Grovcr 
F. ^fiIIer, '16, Racine, Wis.; James H. Rj-an, '20, Rochester, N. Y.; Louis V. Bniggner, and James R. Meehan, '24, South Bend, Ind.; John P. Hurley, '25, Toledo, O.; Rudy Gocpfridi, '26, South Bend, Ind.; Louis F. Buckley, '28, Milton, Mass.; Prof. Laurence F. Staudcr, '29, Notre Dame; James T. Doyle, '31, E»-anston, 111.; James K. Collins, '32, Shaker Heights, O.; Joseph A. McCabe, '33, Eran­ston. III.; T. Edu-ard Carey, '34, Rocky River, O.; Franklyn C. Hochreiter, '33, To%won, Md.; Robert F. En-in, '36, Grossc Pointe, Midi.; Joseph P. Quinn, '37, Andover, N. J.; James N. Motschall, '39, Detroit, Mich.; James G. Brown, '40, and James F. Spellman, '41, New York, N. Y.; William Mark Hickcy, '42, Chicago, III.; John L. Wiggins, '43, La Canada, Calif.; George A. Barisdllo, Jr., *44, Bradley Beach, N. J.; AI Lesmez, '45. Garden City, N. Y.; Jack Miles, '47, South Bend, Ind.; Herman A. Zitt, '48, Dayton, O.; Robert J. Kling­enbcrger, '51, Fort Wa\-ne, Ind.; Harry L. Buch, '52, Wheeling, W. Va.; Thomas W. Reedy, '53, Northfield. 111.; John P. Deasy, '56, Chicago, 111.; and Lt. Charles P. Williamson, '57, Quantico, Va. 
Local reunion chairmen included: Joseph Njikos, '23; Rev. Andrew Multrany, C.S.C., '28; John ilcNamara, '33; Prof. Edward Cronin, '38; William Earlcy. '43; John Laughlin, '48, and Thomas Collins, '33. 
 one  appointed! 

Lay Trustees. They are William R. Daley, Cleve land financier and industrialist; Joseph 
I. O'Neill, Jr., Midland, Texas, inde pendent oil operator; and Alfred C? Stepan, Jr., president of the Stepaiv Chemical Co., Chicago. O'Neill and Stepan, the alumni appointees, have been extremely active and prominent in alumni aff'airs. 
Daley is president of Otis and Co., vice president and treasurer of the Portsmouth Steel Corp., and board cliairman of die Cleveland Indians. He has been a member of the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce and in 1954 established a $10,000 in­vestment fund with which commerce school students actually purchase secur­ities as part of their training in finance. 
Joe O'Neill, '37, served as president of the Alumni Association during 1956. As an undergraduate he was a member of the varsity football and basketball teams. Prior to entering the oil business Joe was a special agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation. In addition to his alumni activities he has been serving with the Advisor)' Council for the Law School. 
Al Stepan, '31, an Arts and Letters graduate, is a charter member of the Advisor)' Council for the College of Liberal and Fine Arts. He is a member and former president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. 
Notre Dame's Plans for the Future 
Alumni will soon receive a new brochure describ­ing the University's program for the next ten years and reviewing progress achieved during the peri­ods, 1842-1946 and 1947-1957. Scheduled to be mailed from campus in the final week of February, this special informational booklet will also be sent to non-alumni friends. 
2 Notre Dame AlurnnuSj March, 1958 
Francis L. "Mike" Layden, '36, dis­trict manager for the Indiana Bell Tel­ephone Company, Evansville, Ind., was 

•' elected president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association at the board of di­rector's meeting held on campus in 
• Januar)'. He succeeds J. Patrick Can­ny, '28, Cleveland, O., who becomes honorar)' president. 
. Newly-elected vice-presidents include Edmond R. Haggar, '38, president of ' the Haggar Company, Dallas, Texas: , Eugene M. Kennedy, vice-president of the Bank of America, Los Angeles, Calif.; and Oscar J. Dorwin, vice-pres­ident of the Texas Company, New 
' York City. All are senior members of the board and will serve throughout 1958 in these capacities. James E. Armstrong, '25, who has been Alumni Association secretary since 1926, was re-elected to the post. 
i Responsibilities of the vice-presidents are divided as follows: local alumni club activities, Haggar; alumni class 
. activities, Kennedy; Foundation, alum­ni fund and gifts, Dorwin. "Mike" Layden was an outstanding athlete at Notre Dame in the mid­
' thirties when he played halfback for the Fighting Irish and participated in varsity track. He is a member of the Monogram Club and serves as an of­ficial in Big Ten football games each fall. "Mike" is a brother of Elmer Layden, '25, former head grid coach at Notre Dame and one of the famed "Four Horsemen." He has been active in civic affmrs since moving to Evans­ville six years ago. "Mike" is married 
' and the father of three children. Ed Haggar is past president of the 
N.D. Club of Dallas and vice-chair­
t man of the Civil Service Board. Ed is director of the American Institute of Men's and Boys' Wear. Gene Kennedy played varsity basketball at the Uni­
, versity, and b a veteran of World War 
[ I and II. He received a law degree in 
:V 1922. 
f Oscar Dorwin graduated from Notre 
I Dame in 1917 and three years later 
I Harvard awarded a bachelor of laws ' degree to him. He was varsity baseball pitcher at N.D. and serves on the School of Law Advisory Council. 
Other members of the Board in­clude: Leo J. Vogel, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Raymond W. Durst, '26, River Forest, 111.; Jules K. de la Vergne, '33, New Orleans, La.; William E. Cotter, Jr., '41, Duluth, Minn.; John C. O'Connor, '39, Indianapolis, Ind.; James H. Shells, '35, New York City; Joseph R. Stewart, '22, Kansas City, Mo.; and Charies E. Rohr, '30, Cleve­land, O. 
Committee chairmen submitted re­ports to the Board on club and class activities, the alumni fund, preparatory school relations, job counseling and placement, inter-alumni affairs, prestige and public relations, and religion and citizenship. They attended the Class Secretaries Conference follo\vin? the Board meeting, and. at various func­tions during the weekend listened to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, and Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, de-. scribe Notre Dame's plans for the fu-. ture. 
The Board of Directors will attend the next meeting in the Summer, im­mediately prior to the Class Reunion Weekend on June 6, 7 and 8. . ~ 



"Mike" Layden Elected Association President 
Succeeds Pat Canny at Directors' Winter Meeting 
J. Patrick Canny,'retiring president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, congratulates his successor Francis L. "Mike" Layden (L). Others in the photo are officers for 1938, (lom left to right: Eugene M. Kennedy, class vice-president; Secretary James E. Armstrong; and Edmond H. Haggar, club vice-president. Oscar J. Dorwin, elected as alumni fund vice-president, was unable to attend the meeting. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
ZdUo^UcU 6o4Kme4tti ^'°'" ^°"' 
Alumni Secretary 
There may be a ring of the familiar in the following. 
If so, it is because I have never ceased in 32 years of alumni work to marvel at the unselfi.sh volun­

l^^^^jj^H 
teer scivices of 
r ''^^^H 
Notre Dame men 
in all walks of 
life, in whatever v^^ 
channels of ac­




:ili 
tivity the Uni­versity interest James E. Armstrong 
dictated. We are fresh—at this writing—from the meeting of the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association, including the 4 new membere. As Pat Canny ends his year as President, we can only record another intensive application of interest, cflort, and ability which has advanced the many programs of the .•Association substantially, and which met one of the significant pressures of his particular presidency, the athletic program, with unusual and elTective leadership. 
\\c are fresh, also, from a meeting of the Class .Secretaries. AnA in tliis group, we found new Secretaries of old Classes, and new Secretaries of new Classes, but we also found Secretaries whose sei"\ice should merit rewards from their efTorts far beyond any achieved or any hoped for. 
Soon we will be assembling the Club Presidents, .^nd here is another group of men whose positions have long since lost the titular inactivity that was once too often associated with the job. The diversity and the intensity of our Club programs is a constant challenge to the Alumni Office, in trj-ing to match on a general level the constnictive, cre­ative and varied activities of our Clubs. 
On another broad and vital front, our Foundation Governors and Chair­men have aided immeasurably in the outstanding and successful record of the Notre Dame Foundation, as its first 10-year goal comes to accomplishment. The willingness and the competence, the interest and the results of these far-flung representatives are the principal ingredient in the new long-range pro­gram of tlie University that is being de­signed to meet the continuing and in­creasing challenges of the ne.\t decade. 
A study of the Lay Tnistees and the -Advisoiy Coimcils will indicate the presence there of other active and out­standing alumni, whose assistance has written other chaptere into the histoiy of Notre Dame progress. 
-At our Januan' Board and Class Secretaries meetings the full coopera­tion and attention of the University ad­ministration, their comprehensive pre­sentations and free and full answers to questions, were the most satisfying as­surance to all our vohmteer workers that their contributions to the Univer­sity arc known and appreciated. 
As we enter this historic year—the 90th annivci-sar\' of the Association, the nOth of its pennanent reorganization, the 35th of its Office and Magazine— I feel obligated to offer this salute to our invaluable volunteer, without whom these yeai-s of continuous pro­gress would not have taken place. 
A note on football ticket distribu­tion : Please read Bob Cahill's presenta­tion in this issue of the 1958 plan. It has not altered, but experience indicates that there cannot be enough repetition. 
We do not claim a perfect system. Pmt we have not foimd any better, yet. Contributoi-s in 1957, the 1958 grad­uates, and the priests and brothers who hold degrees from the University, re­ceive the advance alumni blanks. 
Our principal entreaty this year is that alumni will realize the climactic nature of the Army-Notre Dame game: the problem of assigning a verj- limited number of alumni scats to an antici­pated surplus of qualified, even ad­vance, applicants, for this particular game; and om- almost inevitable in­ability for this one game to make ex­ceptions for additional tickets or for Club groups or trips. 
Indiana, Purdue, Duke and North Carolina can—and probably will—be outstanding games. Tradition throws the stress almost entirely on the Army week end. Cooperation in leveling ofT the demand will be of veiy significant help this year. 
—Jim Armstrong 


Prof. Reyniers^ Resigns Post 
Bradley is Acting Director 

Rev. Theodore M. Hcsbiugh, C.S.C, recently annoimced the resignation of James A. Re\-niers, research profes.sor of bacteriology, foimder and fonncr di­rector of the Univereity's Lobimd In­stitute. The resignation will become effective on January 9, 1959, a year hence. Father Hesbui^h said. During the interim period Professor Rcyniers will continue his research in gcnnfree life at Lobund. 
A full-time director of Lobund will be appointed shortly. Meanwhile the Institute is under the direction of Francis X. Bradley, Jr., a.ssistant dean of the Graduate School, who was re­cently appointed acting administrative director of Lobund Institute. 
Father Hesburgh noted that it is with sincere regret that the University ac­cepted the decision of Professor Rey­niere to leave the University. "During his years at Notre Dame," continued Father Hesbmgh, "Professor Rcyniers has brought to completion the revolu­lionaiy new technique of germfree life research which is regarded as having the highest promise of leading to many new scientific discoveries in the field of biological and medical research, in ad­dition to those already achieved at Lo­bimd Institute. For these great accom­plishments, the University family and. the world of science will long and grate­fully remember Professor Reyn lei's. We wish him continued and fruitful success in his remarkable scientific career." 
Early in 1954 Professor Rej-niers and his associates in collaboration with Uni­versity of Chicago scientists reported the first direct proof that microoigan­isms in the mouth are necessary for tooth decay to take place. The Lobimd scientists under Reyniei-s' direction have also studied gennfree life to detennine if viruses and certain carcinogenic agents induce tumors in germfree ani­mals as well as in nonnally contami­nated animals. Other important areas of their research include radiation sick­ness, antibiotics and growth, liver ne­crosis, protein metabolism, and the role of intestinal bacteria in nutrition. 
4 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1958 

m 




Father Hesburgh Attends International Atoms-For-Peace Conference in Vienna 
Pope Pius XII receives Father Hesburgh and Mr. Folsom in a private audience. His Holiness gave a special blessing to all N.D. alumni. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, recently attended the first general con­ference of the "atoms-for-peace" or­ganization in Vienna,, as the perma­nent representative of Vatican City. Father Hesburgh and Frank M. Fol­som, executive committee chairman and former president of the Radio Corporation of America, were present for the sessions after receiving their ap­pointments from Msgr. .Angelo Dell­'.Acqua, substitute secretar\- of state at tlie Vatican. 
Previously Father Hesburgh had signed the statute for the Vatican at the United Nations conference which culminated in the formation of the In­ternational Atomic Energ)' Agency. Mr. Folsom also is a member of Notre Dames .Advisor)- Council for Science and Engineering. 
After leaving the conference in Aus­tria, Father Hesburgli and Mr, Folsom stopped in Vatican City where they re­ported to His Holiness Pope Pius XII on progress attained by the internation­al assemblv. 
The Russian Delegation chief, Mr. Emel­j-nov (left), converses with Fr. Hesburgh, Mr. Folsom and Mr. Bolton (right), execu­tive officer of the Agency. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
Army Game Tickets Limited 
To Last Year's Alumni Contributors 
The return of Army's football team to Notre Dame stadium to close out the cun-ent series, highlights the 1958 schedule. That colorful game, to be played October 11, has always posed ticket problems regardless of site, but this year several factors combine to make it quite the stickiest home game problem we've yet faced. Since the Cadets played here last (1947) Notre Dame has added at least 12,000 mem­bers to the Alumni Association. Ca­pacity of our stadium has increased only minutely, by addition of field seats in tlie end zone. Hence, the Army game ticket sale will be strictly a closed proposition. ONLY ALUMNI CON­TRIBUTORS TO THE FIFTEENTH ANNUAL ALUMNI FUND IN 1957 (and these number more than 10,000) AVILL RECER'E AN ORDER FORM OF AN^.' KINT3 FOR THE ARMY GAME. Because this restric­tion is a potential hair shirt for many of us, we mention it first. Otherwise, the basic points for Alumni ticket dis­tribution are the same as in other years, heightened only by the large increase in alumni numbers each June. Here they are again, for your careful con­sideration : 
1.
 Contributors to the Fifteenth Annual Alumni Fund in 1957, plus religious and honorary' degree holders, are eligible for Advance Sale order forms for 1958. (PLEASE NOTE: Any contribution in the calendar year 1958 assures preference for 1959, but NOT for 1958.) These Advance Sale forms will be issued to the Class of 1958 (Januar\' and June), whether or not tliey are con­tributors. 

2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20, closes July 15. 

3.
 Advance Sale order forms are good for two tickets per game, are not transferable, will be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is exhausted. Seats are alloted in ac­cordance with date received. Any 


BY ROBERT CAHIU, '34 Ticket Manager 
Drders arriving before opening day (June 20) are integrated at random with opening day's sales. Then all orders are shuffled at tlie close of June 20 business, drawn by lot and assigned a sequence number to estab­lish the order of seat assignment for the first day's sale. Thus, with tlirce or four thousand orders arriving for processing on June 20, entailing six or eight thousand tickets, it is ob­vious that a first-day order for Army (or any game) could be on the fifty or beyond tlie goal line, depending on the luck of the draw. (After Monogram and Season tickets are deducted, there are only about 4,000 tickets between the goal and the fiftj­in the Alumni sections). 

4.
 General-Use applications (EXCEPT for Army) will be sent to ALL alum­ni the latter part of July. It is pos­sible, of course, tliat the Alumni Ad­vance sale could exhaust ticket sup­plies for other games as well, but at this writing it is not likely. General-Use forms are transferable and usual­ly valid for more than two tickets. They may be used by the contribu­ting alumnus to order additional tickets and are a source of tickets for the non-contributor slightly in advance of public sale. They do not carr}' any locational preference, for such orders are filled AFTER Ad­vance Sale purchases. 

5.
 Public sale opens August 1, as usual. The Ticket Committee will gladly send public order forms to anyone as long as tickets are available. AVe urge alumni to take advantage of this availability also. Often an order form for a friend or business ac­quaintance will satisfy the many ticket requests made of Notre Dame 

6.
 An Alumni Club planning on a bloc 


(Ed. Note: If you can't get a seat on the 50 yard line don't complain—the fellow who sold you the ticket can't either. Ticket Manager Bob Cahill, who wrote this article, seldom sees the Fighting Irish in action although he sells thousands of ducats each Fall to alumni. On home game weekends, his job is so confining at Gate 14 that there isn't much leisure time to watch the touchdown parade. He's a veteran Notre Dame employee with 26 years of service at the Universitj'.—^J.C.) 
of tickets (again—not for Army) must file a request with tlie Ticket Manager by June 20. Accommoda­tion of Club requests is entirely con­tingent on the total Alumni Advance sale which closes July 15. No de­cisions regarding bloc orders can be reached until that time. As to group seat locations, we repeat for the; eighteenth straight year—seats avail­able are assigned from those remain­ing after all individual orders are filled. This means end zone seats, witliout exception. 

7. An increasing number of Alumni Clubs have requested two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle prizes. AVith the preferred seat situa­
 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
tion so acute, it is unjust for the Ticket Committee to furnish choice seats for a raffle prize when it can only be done at the expense of an in­dividual alumni order. Tickets for raffle prizes will have to be of the general use variety, unless, of course, alumni demand is small. 
Army Game Ticket Allocation: 

ND Stadium Capacity 
(Reserved Seats) 56,526 Alumni 12,000 Season Tickets 20,000 Students (including 
St. Mar)''s) 6,750 Parents of ND Students 5,000 
U.S. Militar)' Academy.. 7,500 
Administration, Faculty, Press, etc 5,276 56,526 
None of die above categories is exact nor is any one allotment sufficient (there are more than 10,000 contribu­ting alumni now, for example). 
The Season Ticket total of 20,000 was reached two years ago and has been pegged at that figure. No season ticket orders in excess of that figure will be accepted. Season tickets go on sale May 1. Alumni interested in the season ticket should inquire before that time. No alumni preference attaches to the Season Ticket. 
The diagram of Notre Dame stadium shows rather plainly our location prob­lems. For the Army game, the spaces apparently unassigned will of course be claimed by Alumni, Parents, and Ad­ministration. 
1958 NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
Sept. 27—Indiana at Notre Dame Oct. 4—Southern Methodist at Dallas Oct. 11—Army at Notre Dame Oct. 18—Duhc at Notre Dame Oct. 25—Purdue at Notre Dame Nov. 1—^Navy at Baltimore Nov. 8—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh Nov. 15—^North Carolina at Notre Dame Nov. 22—Iowa at Iowa City Nov. 29—Southern Calif, at Los Angeles 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM 

GATC.5-4  ­ 3  - 6  
CAT£-^  
GATC-i  'int  
CATt;  WW^  fl  
fcJitei  •;}m^:i^Mi:f^ii   Alumni (as required)  
Season Tickets and Faculty  
/  £=:  ^^i§^Visr«„,Te..,«„quire. ,  
36  University Administration  
^  Student Body  ^  
=3 19 : 


YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME 
BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the university Advising N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a 'plan of giving' Informing University of your cor­poration's 'areas of interest' Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest 
Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.e. paintings, equipment, books, etc.) Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
GATe-3 
TCS 
=3 17 
-zz 


IQ \ 
GATe-lO. 
:^ 


20 : 
ATC-II
ettrt 
UT£-IZ 



awr-ZJ 

CATE-14 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
By Francis Wallace, '23 
(Ed. Note: Frank Wallace b past national president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, an outstanding football analyst, and author of many books, magazine articles and sports features. This is suggested reading" for all Reunion classes . . . especially 1923. 
-J.c.) 
At our 30th Reunion the Glass made me a sort of wandering vice-president, which is probably why Jack Norton put me on a committee to steam-up our 35th. So I got those prodding notes from Norton and Bruggner and finally came the bright idea: Why not do this the easy way by doing a piece for the ALUMNUS? SO Cackley fell for it and I let it slide until, amid Christmas cards, comes the deadline. So no time to be fancy. Which my be just as well. A guy should certainly find some words to say about 35 years. 
I'm thinking of those I e-xpect to see; those I know I'll never see again; those I would like to see pop up, some for the first time since graduation. I'm thinking of all the fellows from odier. classes I've celebrated with during the years; for I've been one of those lucky ones who got back often and joined up 
•with whoever was handy. I'm thinking of the padres, the ones who go back to our days, the others I've met since, those for whom, for one reason or an­other, I feel some sort of bond. 
First the padres. Father Connie Hagerty, a masculine man and my personal idea of a walking-around saint; and I hope that does not em­barrass him too much. Father Irving, 





Classes Prepare For Week-End Reunion Program on June 6,7,8 
1923 Will Celebrate Its S5th With Special Campus Events 
who was perhaps my first contact with Notre Dame because he was Director of Studies and did me the great service of talking me out of taking math for an elective. Father Thornton, Father Cunningham (my old day-dodger baseball coach): Father Joyce — but I'd better stop here, with apologies to those I'd want to include but I'd better get onto the classmates. 
And beginning with John Cavanaugh, the college friend who grew up to be President, thereby surprising nobody in the Class of '23. . . . And I'll not dwell on the journalistic picnic in our senior year when Cawy and Bamhart, our two top student leaders, drove that Ford around the quadrangle with Engels and AVallace jack-knifed in the back end. . . . Which leads naturally to our 25th, when Bamhart returned with a mile-long Cadillac, also surpris­ing nobody. . . . Henry and I decided we were going to celebrate this one sedately — and wound up, or anyhow I did, in Howard, having fallen among senior thorns — graduating seniors. . . . And persuading one young rebel, who was very much fed up witli Nostra Domina, that he would also %vind up, at his 25di, conxdncing some other fed-up senior. 
Which thought-transfers me to the 30th, where I fell among other senior thorns, and two straight mornings dis­cussed with them the outlook of tlie world—until daylight; which wouldn't have been so bad if Gastner, The Male Animal, who had also done some of the student discussing, hadn't banged on my door at nine o'clock for that golf date. . . . Somehow, we survived all that and there was the peaceful circle on the grass on Saturday after­noon, when Tom Plouff made his ter­rible accident sound funny; and when each of us must have looked around and wondered which of us would, by '58, have registered for what Father John, at our Memorial Mass, had called that Reunion In The Sky. 

At least two who were there that afternoon won't make it a date in '58; two close friends of mine. Dr. Chick Doran, who was recording it all in pic­tures; and Col. Jack (Black Horse) FljTin, a staunch friend since we sat ne-Kt to each other in Father Miltner's English class. . . . Nor those of the five others who knocked it off recently \vithin a few weeks. 
Nothing we can do about those lads, nor, let's face it, about those of tlie rest of us who might become vital sta­tistics; nothing but pray for those lads; and for us, stay in the state of grace. AVe'll be thinking of them at The Grotto; and at all the other familiar times and places where they will still live for us at Notre Dame in that part • of our youth. 
That's the word — youth. . . . It's there. You'll love it. You'll park .your years, your troubles, your problems, your successes, your failures, your ambi­tions. There will be no big-shots, no little-shots. There'll be only the boys you used to know, very much as they were then. It will be like coming home. You'll begin to realize what they mean by Alma Mater; and, of course, at Notre Dame, the Mother of Mothers. 
I've just looked at tlie class roster, 
(Continued on page 17) 
 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 




DR. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER 
Dean of the College of Science 
Dr. Baldinger, 


FACULTY PROFILES 
a member of 

 REV. PAUL E. BEICHNER, C.S.C. : Dean of the Graduate School 
The Rev. Paul Edward B e i c h n e r , C.S.C, was ap­pointed dean of th e Graduate School and as­sistant vice-president in charge of aca­

demic affairs at Notre Dame on June 27, 1952. 
Taught English Composition Father Beichner was bom in Frank­lin, Penn., on July 23, 1912, the son of Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Beichner. He 
•entered the Congregation of Holy Cross in 1928 and completed his undergrad­uate work at Notre Dame in 1935. Fol­lowing four years of theological studies at the Catholic University of America, Father Beichner was ordained to the priesthood by the Most Rev. John F. Noll of Fort Wayne, Ind., in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus, June 24, 1939. For the ne.xt two years he taught English composi­tion courses at the University and stud­ied for his Master's degree, which he received in 1941. 
A specialist in Chaucer, Middle Eng­lish and Mediaeval Latin manuscripts. Father Beichner received his doctorate at Yale University in 1944 and re­mained on the New Haven campus as a research fellow the following year. He returned to the Notre Dame faculty in 1945 and was named assistant head of the English department a year later. During 1949-50 he served as assistant dean of the College of Arts and Letters. From 1950 to 1952 he was an assistant to the vice-president in chaise of aca­demic affairs. 
Writes on Mediaeval Lit Father Beiclmer is a member of the Mediaeval Academy of America, the Modem Language Association, the Indiana College English Association, 
•and the American Association of Uni­versity Professors. He is the author of a number of articles on mediaeval literature. 
JOSEPH O'MEARA Dean of the College of Law 
Joseph O'Meara wa s appointed dean of Law at th e University 
on May 23, 1952. He suc­ceeded Clar­ence E.Manion, who had been 

a member of the law faculty since 1924 and dean since 1941. 
O'Meara, who is a native of Cin­cinnati, Ohio, assumed his academic post after 31 years of distinguished service in the legal profession. At the time of his appointment. Dean O'Meara was a member of two law firms: Mer-land, O'Meara, Santen & Willging of Cincinnati and Daigusch, Caren, Greek & King of Columbus, Ohio. From 1925 to 1940, O'Meara served as associate counsel for the Western and Southern Life Insurance Company. 
Authority on Taxation 

Dean O'Meara took his undergrad­uate work at Xavier University and received his law degree from the Uni­versity of Cincinnati. An authority on Federal taxation, he lectured at the University of Cincinnati College of Law from 1943 to 1946. His articles have appeared in Commonweal, the Journals of the American Bar Associa­tion and American Judicature Society and in the law reviews of several lead­ing universities. 
In 1939, Dean O'Meara organized the Cincinnati branch of the Com­mittee of Catholics for Human Rights. He is a member of the American Bar Association and tlie bar associations of the State of Ohio, Columbus and Cin­cinnati. He also holds memberships in the American Law Institute, American Judicature Society, Academy of Polit­ical Science, American Civil Liberties Union, the Foreign Policy Association, and the Association of Life Insurance Counsel. 
In 1928 he married the former Jean Collow in Cincinnati. They have two children, David and Nancy. 
the faculty since 
1929, was ap­
pointed dean of 
the College of 
Science in 1943. 
In addition to 
his administra­

tive duties. Dean Baldinger is a professor of chem­istry and serves as advisor to the Uni­versity's premcdical students. 
A specialist in pharmacology and organic chemistry. Dr. Baldinger has conducted extensive research on the oil of peppermint. In 1950 he received Notre Dame's Lay Faculty Award for outstanding service to the University. 
Bom in Galion, Ohio, January 12, 1907, Dr. Baldinger was graduated from Gah'on High School in 1924. From the Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, he received the degrees of Phar­maceutical Chemist in 1928 and Bachelor of Science in 1929. The Uni­versity of Notre Dame awarded him master of science and doctor of philos­ophy d^rees in 1931 and 1933, re­spectively. 
Dr. Baldinger served as head of the department of pharmacy at Notre Dame from 1929 until 1939 when the department was discontinued and its faculty was absorbed in the chemistry department. In 1941 Dr. Baldinger was named assistant dean of the Col­lege of Science, appointed acting dean the following year and dean in 1943. 
Has Four Children Among Dr. Baldinger's professional affiliations are: membership in the American Chemical Society, the Ameri­can Pharmaceutical Association, the Indiana Academy of Science, the Indi­ana Chemical Society, and the Rho Chi Phi Delta Chi. He is also a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He has pub­lished numerous technical papers in scientific journals and conducted re­search for the U. S. Department of Agriculture. In 1929 Dr. Baldinger married the former Helen M. Dwyer of Sistersville, 
W. Va. They have a daughter and three sons: Lawrence, Jr., '52; James E., '56, and Charles D., currentiy a freshman at Notre Dame. 
The dean is an avid amateur photog­rapher and gardener. 
ffotre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
MOOT COURT VrCTORY 
Again this year, as last, our moot court team won the championship of Re^on 9 (Indiana, Illinois and Wis­consin) in the National Moot Court Competition in Chicago November 14 and 15. Other schools represented in the regional competition were: 
Chicago-Kent College of Law De Paul University College of Law Indiana University School of Law Loyola University School of Law Marquette University Law School Northwestern University School of Law University of Chicago Law School University of Illinois College of Law University of Wisconsin Law School Valparaiso University School of Law 
In consequence of our victory in Chicago, our team represented Region 9 in the final arguments in the national competition in New York in December. After winning in the first roimd, we lost in the second to the team repre­senting Emory University School of Law. 
Members of the Notre Dame team were selected in the final argument of our own Annual Moot Court Compe­tition on November 4. Mr. Justice William J. Brennan, Jr., of the Su­preme Court of the United States pre­
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
sided over the court whicli sat on that occasion. Other members of the court were Chief Judge John Biggs, Jr., of the United States Court of Appeals for tlieTliird Circuit and Judge Robert A. Grant of the United States District Court for the Nortliem District of In­diana. 
The students who participated in the argument before this distinguished tri­bunal were: 
John F. Murray, Elmira, New York 
William J. Ragan, Buffalo, New York 
Raymond W. Tam, Wahaiwa, Oahu, 
Hawaii Donald L. Verj-, Pittsburgh, Penn. Messrs. Ragan and Tam were ad­judged tlie winners and received the Dean's Award, established in 1950 by former dean Clarence E. Manion. They, together with Mr. Very as al­ternate, composed the team which rep­resented us so successfully in the re­gional rounds of tlie national competi­tion in Chicago, and later in the final rounds in New York. 

JUDGE KILEY 
Judge Roger J. Kiley, '23 L, of tlte Appellate Court of Illinois has received a tremendous vote of confidence from the law)'ers of Cook County. In the re­cent Bar Poll conducted by the Chi­cago Bar Association, 92.68% of the la^vyers voted for Judge Kiley. Such near unanimity on the part of lawyers concerning the merits of a sitting judge must surely establish a record—a rec­ord of which every Notre Dame man can be proud. 
ELEaED 
Three members of the Law Associa­tion have just been elected directors of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. They are John C. O'Connor, '40 L, practicing in Indianapolis, Joseph R. Stewart, '22, Associate Gemeral Coun­sel of the Kansas City Life Insurance Company, Kansas City, Missouri, and James Hr Sheils, '35, practicing in New York City. 
The election of Messrs, O'Connor, Stewart and Sheils brings to six the 
A letter has been sent to every member of the Notre Dame Law Association asking for a contribution to the Scholarship Fund. The re­sponse has been disappointing. Have you sent in your check? If not, won't you please do so today? Ad­dress Notre Dame Law "Association, Notre Dame, Indiana. . 
number of Alumni directors who are Law Association members. The others are J. Patrick Canny, '28 L, General Attorney of the Erie Railroad, Cleve­land, Ohio; Oscar John Dorwin, '17, t Vice President and General Counsel of The Te.Kas Company, and Eugene M. Kennedy, '22 L, Vice President of the I Bank of America, Los Angeles, Calif. Joseph L O'Neill, Jr., '36, and Patrick 
J. Fisher, '37 L, retired from the Board, -j in Januar}'. Mr. Canny, who has just | finished a term as president of the Alumni Association, is now Honorary j President during 1958. Mr. Dorwin \ and Mr. O'Neill are members of The Law School's Advisory Council. 


ALUMNI NOTES 
James P. Reedy of Chicago, '49 L, i lias been appointed General Attorney -1 of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & I Pacific Railroad. i 
Jolm G. Smith, '50 L, has been ad­mitted to partnership in the firm of ' Lord, Bissell & Brook, 135 South La-Salle Street, Chicago. j 

FACULTY NOTES 
Dean O'Meara has been appointed a member of the Rockefeller Foimda­tion's Advisory Committee in Legal and Political Philosophy. 
Professor Chroust is a member of the Rockefeller Foundation's Advisory Committee in the Social Sciences. He has recently been elected a correspond­ing member of the Instituto de Soci­ografia y Planeacion of the National University of Tucmnan in Argentina. 
Professor Peters has been invited to prepare a paper on "The Problem of the Security of the State and Liberty" for the Fifth International Congress of Comparative Law, to be held in Brus­sels in August. 
Professor Wagner read a paper at the annual meeting of the Association of American Law Schools in December on the use of comparative-law mate­rials in the teaching of Torts. 
Professor Ward delivered the second lecture in the annual American Dem­ocracy Series at Culver Military Acad­emy in December. His subject ^vas "How Safe Can the Free Society Be?" 
Professor Kellenbeig is a member of the Adoption Committee of the Coun-i cil of Community Services of St. Jo­seph county. Among the 18 permanent-members of the Committee are law-.;' yeis, doctors, social workers, clergymen and parents of adopted children. Pro­
(Continued on page 18) 
FATHER CAVANAUGH 
URGES REVIVAL OF 


ACADEMIC PRESTIGE 

Catholics are not yet generally con­scious of tlieir own intellectual medioc­rity and are not sufficiently impatient about it. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation told members of the John Carroll Society, Washington, D.C., at a commimion breakfast in tlie May­flower Hotel. He called for "a renais­sance of respect for culture and schol­arship" in our homes and warned that "if we want our colleges and universi­ties to help change the intellectual and social position of Catholics in this coun­try, we must pay die price." 
Catholics must not rationalize their low estate in American intellectual af­fairs, Father Cavanaugh asserted. Amer­ican Jews, too, are a minority group, largely "an immigrant people who must fight nigotry, but they are producing leaders far out of proportion to their numbei-s in practically every field," he said. 
Noting that "not a single Catholic institution" rated among the top col­leges and universities in a four-category survey conducted recently by a metro­politan newspaper. Father Cavanaugh asked: "Is it because we have spread ourselves too thin, opened up colleges and even universities without sufficient, first-rate teaching personnel? .. . Is it because our teaching methods are too didactic, catechetical, »that we do not stimulate in students the spirit of criti­cal study and excite them to the ad­ventures of imaginative work in the sciences and arts?" 
He emphasized that administrators and faculty members of many Catholic colleges throughout the country "are working day and night to prodi:ce a sharp turn in events within the next ten years." The heart of the hope of E.\-ceilence, he said, lies in the quality of faculty members who "must receive salaries that are commensurate with their cxtraordinar)- abilities and the importance of the teaching career." Father Cavanaugh stressed the impor­:ance of "the spirit of research" and 
'carefully selected and coordinated pro­
jrams of studies" if Catholic colleges 
(Continued on page 18) 
BeuJu *J'uUuiH. Plea 

^on. /lid ia XilfuMf 

'"^^^ 

The author is best known for his novel "The Teahouse of the August Moon," which was adapted for the stage and won the 1954 Pulitzer Prize award for drama. He's a native of Monroe, Michigan, and a graduate of the 1940 class. Currently, Vem is do­ing some movie scripts in Hollywood and will soon write another novel to be published by Putnam's. 
Feb. 15, 1958 Alumni Office Notre Dame, Indiana 
Gentlemen: 

I read the article by Walter Trohan in the last ALUMNUS with great interest. It brought to mind a personal experience in which the absence of books made me realize how important books can be. 
It was on Okinawa at the close of World War II. At that time, as an Army Captain, I commanded a native village of some five thousand people. In reality, these villages were refugee camps, and the position of the village commander was unique. 
There were no relief supplies in those days. Not only did the village commander represent law and order, but he was the supplier of food, and clothing, and shelter. In brief, each village was wholly and com­pletely dependent upon the ability and the knowledge which its com­mander possessed. And it was then that I realized what a great limita­tion a lack of knowledge can be. 
When you stand in an isolated village; when you see scurvy and near starvation, and you know material help is not available, you begin to wish. I wished for books that I had seen in bookstore after bookstore, back in America. Books on nutrition, books on agriculture, books on carpentr}', and even books on weaving. But unfortunately these were never available. 
This is \vritten some thirteen years later, and I realize more than ever now how much human suffering could have been avoided had one par­ticular village commander possessed just a few dollars worth of books. 
There was no need for scurvy. A thirty-five cent book on nutrition could have shown how the berries from the wild rose plant, which grows , in the Okinawan hills, could have been used to cure it. A dollar book could have shown how the textile banana, which grows all over Okinawa, could have been processed into clothing. And a few books on agriculture would have sho%vn how the supposedly hostile Okinawan clay could have been turned into productive land. 
All of this involves a remote Asian village; and, of course, there is more to a library dian a few how-to-do-it books, such as were needed above. But the point is a lack of books means a limitation of knowledge. In our complex civilization we cannot afford that. And so I fully agree \vith Walter Trohan that Notre Dame needs an organization to support a library, the best library that can be assembled. 
Sincerely, —/s/ VERN SNEIDER 
Uotre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 



Schoenherr Resigns As Engineers' Dean To Work With Navy 
The resignation of Dean Karl Schoenherr of Notre Dame's College of Engineering and his appointment as technical direc­tor of the hydro­mechanics labo­ratory at the Navy's David Taylor Model p% Basin, Carder­ock, Maryland, were announced recently by Rev. 
Dean SchocnheiT 
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president, and the Navy Department 

Doctor Schoenherr, who has headed the Notre Dame engineering school since 1945, will continue to discharge his responsibilities as dean imtil the end of the current school year. 
A noted naval architect as well as an educator. Dean Schoenherr is an inter­national autliority on the resbtance and propukion of ships, their steering and turning, and propeller design. His fonnula dealing ^^dth the frictional re­sistance of fluids along plane surfaces, published twenty-five years ago, is still the classic in tlie field. 
In announcing Dean Sclioenherr's resignation. Father Hesburgh paid trib­ute to the engineering school's "twelve years of sohd achievement under his direction." During Schoenherr's tenure Notre Dame's engineering enrollment "more than doubled," Father Hes­burgh pointed out, and the school's laboratorj' equipment was augmented greatly. He cited highlights of Schoen­herr's deanship as the creation of an engineering mechanics department, tlie introduction of nuclear engineering courses, die extension of graduate work and research to all departments, the establishment of an evening graduate program for engineers employed in local industry, and the launching of a five-year combination liberal arts-engi­neering program. 
Prior to joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1945 Dean Schoenherr con­ducted hydrodjTiamic research for tlie Navy and merchant marine for twenty-three years, rising to the post of head naval architect at the David Taylor Model Basin. 
12 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 

Planning to Send Your Children to College? 
Here Are Facts That Parents Should Know 
Of paramount importance to mar­ried alumni are the welfare and upbringr ing of their children. Upbringing, in the hopes of most, will include sending the children to college—preferably at Notre Dame or St. Mary's. To many this is an automatic assumption, never questioned or even discussed. But few are aware of the rocketing costs of higher education, even though inflation and a rising cost of living has altered ever)' other aspect of their lives to a far greater degree. 
The cost of going to college has doubled in the past fifteen years and will almost certainly continue to in­crease. At Notre Dame, for instance, although the cost of room and board has remained stable for several years, tuition has mounted steadily and now stands at $450 per semester. A resident student now pays about $1,800 a year for tuition, meals, lodging, laundry service, library privileges; admission to nearly all campiK events and routine medical treatment. This does not in­clude books, supplies, fees, clothing, travel or spending money for cokes and cigarettes. Thus, if your boy were at­tending Notre Dame this year it would cost you a minimum $2,200—^and prob­ably more. 
This expense is not exceptional. It is almost identical to tlie minimum cost of a year at Princeton, Yale and other private universities. Where four years of college for your son might have cost $5,000 before Worid War II it now costs about $10,000. And this is almost sure to rise, since it has consistently failed to keep pace with rises in faculty salaries and maintenance costs, diereby creating a crisis in private education. The price of your daughter's higher education would be nearly as high, either at Vassar or St. Mary's. 
About half a million dollars in stu­dent aid is dispensed annually at Notre Dame. Although only a few scholar­sliips are available every year from the university directly, many undergradu­ates receive help from regional, indus­trial and National Merit grants. One in five Notre Dame students receives some kind of help. Himdreds hold campus jobs and others avail them-j selves of the student loan fund. An average $180 per semester is earned through student employment by those who can prove need and meet certain academic and disciplinary requirements '• 
— preferably upperclassmen. Under-' grads, again with preference given to | upperclassmen, may borrow up to $400 a year or a four-year maximum of $1,000 to complete their education. The interest is negligible, and the loan is repaid with a percentage of income after graduation. ' 
Obviously student aid, though use­ful, cannot be relied on, particularly by beginning students. And as time goes ' on it cannot expand as fast as costs or enrolliiients. 
There are various plans for financing i your son's or daughter's education, none of which produce money by magic. All involve steady, methodical, heroic sav­ing. And there are hundreds of insur­ance agencies, banks and savings & loan associations ready to help you get started. j 
Educational annuit)' policies are of- .; fered by most major insurance agencies, j You can get policies to provide all the ; money needed to send your child to ' college, to provide part of the funds, i to be supplemented by current income, ; or to pay the whole bill in the event of | your death. Some parents prefer to | take out a flexible-t)'pc policy on them­selves with an easily accessible cash val­ue for tlie education bills. 
Many banks have initiated the "Col­lege Club" savings ser\'ice. It is basi­cally nothing more than the familiar savings account "packaged" to encour­age regular saving for college. A Col­lege Club account is held jointly by parents and child, who strive to deposit regularly; the child gets a membership card, button, etc., to give him a sense of pride and participation. This differs from tlie Christmas Club and other "club" plans in that deposits earn a respectable rate of interest. Himdreds of U. S. banks have adopted the Col­lege Club idea. 
The savings & loan idea is exempli­Bed by the Family Savings and Home Loan Association of Baltimore, which offers either straight savings widi a div­idend of 4-y2% per annum or a Family Savings Plan, which offers a 3J4% dividend pliis automatic life insurance without a medical examination and automatic disabihty protection to re­place lost income. Savings are com­mercially insured. 
The University has a deferred pay­ment plan for those parents who are temporarily embarrassed, involving an initial deposit and regular pajonents during the school year. Notre Dame discourages direct deposits to the uni­versity for future students because of the imcertainty of academic futures, but a personal savings plan for your child's schooling is greatly to be de­sired. If you are thinking of inaugu­rating such a plan, there is no time like the present. 

BOOKREVIEVIf 
MANUAL FOR NOVICES, Felk D. Duffey, G.S.C., B. Herder Book Co., St. Louis and London, $3.50, 232 pages. 
Reviewed by John A. O'Brien, Ph.D. 
Father DufFey, former editor of the Ave Maria magazine, is chaplain of St. Johns' Hickey Memorial Hospital, An­derson, Ind. Father O'Brien is Notre Dame's well-known author of many books and pamphlets. 
Next to the grace of God the most important factors in the quickening of the spiritual life of our people are priests and religious. Too much atten­tion therefore can scarcely be given to their proper training in the seminary and novitiate. In those institutions the habits of the future servants of God are fashioned for weal or woe — habits which they shall cany with them to their dying day. 
To help novice masters and novices in the joint enterprise of shaping and molding the plastic character of youth into the image of the Divine Master, Jesus Christ, the model of all religious, Fadicr Duffey has written this book. He brings to his task a rich background of experience as a novice master, further enhanced by wide reading and careful study. 
"This work," he says, "is meant to be a textbook for novices. As such it envisages three things: students who 

Sister Mary Mauricita received her master's degree at Notre Dame's summer commencemciit. Her father, Maurice Carroll, '19, and brother, Martin C Carroll, '48, attended the cere­monies. Sr. Mary Mauricita is a member of the Sisters of Charity of Leavenworth and is stationed at Hogan High School in Kansas City, Mo. 
study it, teachers who teach it, and formal classes in which it is studied and taught." It deals chiefly %vith the three vows and their virtues. Instead of con­fining his treatment to the canonical and moral aspects, thus conveying the impression that the vows are mere ta­boos and negations, as has so often been done. Father Duffey shows that the vows are the fulfillment of the evangel­ical counsels, leading to the highest sancdty and the closest union widi Christ, the fountain head of all holi­ness. 
With a deft and sure hand this ex­perienced master of the spiritual life traces out the winsome and appealing implications of the counsels in the light of dogma, morality and asceticism cen­tered in Christ and His Mystical Body -^the Church. The result is an inspir­ational treatise, replete with spiritual insight and wise counsel, that is a sheer joy to read. 

No lash of discipline will be required to induce novices to read this book. It deserves a place on the desk of every novice and its zealous author merits the gratitude of every novice master. 
Reunion 

(Continued from page 5) I've thought of you all, living and dead. I find that I'm thinking most of that small group all of us had, -with whom we hung around as students: Flannery, Doriot, Engels, Murphy, Cawy, Pio, Hagcn, Rolwng and so on. I'm think­ing of those I've grown to know better through the years: Shea, Nash, Mon­tague, Holmberg; of those from the other classes: Mohardt, Meehan, all those Millers. . . . I'm thinking of Rock and Father Lange and King Farley and Brother Candy Store, Zip, Armstrong .. . all the immortals, living and dead, and right now Father (now Arch­bishop) O'Hara and the Basement Chapel. Make it, guys, if you possibly can. All you guys from any class. The surest prediction I've ever made is this: You will love it. And the older you are, the longer you've been away, the more that will be true. . . . And now a mes­sage to Mom and the Kids: Make liim; come. That's the.best Christmas pres­ent you can give him — this bit of his youth. I guarantee it. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March,.195S 13 




Summer Management Program 
A new Management Program is being offered to Notre Dame alumni by the College of Commerce during three l-\vcek meetings beginning on July 7, 14 and 21 in the Morris Inn. Each weekly program will be limited to 30 men, from classes which have been graduated five or more years, and' will center around six divisions of business study: Afarketlng Management, Business Finance, Business Economics, Control, Human Relations and Communications, and Business Policy. 
The instructional staff consist of 23 faculty members of the College of Com­merce and one from the College of Arts and Letters. Each of these men has achieved a high degree of business competence in his chosen specialty. The entire program is directed by Assistant Commerce Dean Thomas Timothy Murphy who is aided by a planning and advisory board composed of Dean James ^V. Culliton and the heads of the Departments of Accounting, Marketing, Finance and Business Administration. 
The Management Program for alumni will be a continuation of the activity initiated this year by the College of Commerce for businessmen from industries and corporations located in and near South Bend. The group assembles each week to hear a brief lecture and engage in a discussion of selected subject matter. Many prominent companies ranging from a fe\v employees to a payroll of more than 100 individuals have enrolees including Bcndix, Wheelabrator, Torrington, .Associates Investment, Whirlpool, Simonizc and Pcnn Controls. All students are at the "decision level" occupying \'arious positions such as company president, wce-prcsident, comptroller, production manager, chief engineer, sales manager, purchasing agent and industrial relations manager. 
The "tuition fee" totaling $300 includes all expenses and is defrayed by the companies whose representatives are attending the Management Program. Dean Murphy has announced that a brochure will soon be a%'ailable for distribution to alumni who are interested in attending this special executive course. 
THE COLLEGE OF COSnVIERCE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Presents 
•
 a summer management conference for Notre Dame Alumni 

•
 aimed at providing executive-training sessions in the areas of business finance, marketing management, control, business economics, communications, human relations, and policy 

•
 five full days (Monday a.m. through Friday evening) 

•
 Choice of three weekly programs 


•
 ultra-modem, air-conditioned facilities of the Morris Inn on Campus 

•
 certificate awarded upon completion of the program 

•
 excellent off-time recreational facilities 


•
 aimed at men from all colleges of Notre Dame—five or more years out 

•
 to bring Notre Dame men abreast of new thinking in the business fields 

•
 to provide free discussional opportunities with other businessmen and with care­


fully-selected academic men • one fee ($300) covers everything: tuition, room, meals, social hour, tips 
• resen-ations made on first come, first ser\'ed basis, mth sessions limited to 30 men each 
TO: THOMAS T. MURPHY DIRECTOR, SUMMER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM UNn^RSITY OF NOTRE DAME NOTRE DAME, INDL\NA 
No. Begins Ends lA JULY 7 JULY 12 IB JULY 14 JULY 19 IC JULY 21 JULY 26 
-.1 wish to enroll in program number.. beginning July. , 1958. 
.-Please send brochure. 

Name , .Company.. 
Address Position 
„..College. 
.jsr.D. cu 

Shea Award Presented to Fr. McAvoy 
Rev. Thomas 
T. M c A V o y J C.S.C., head of the department of history at Notre Dame, has been awarded the John Gil­mary Shea Prize Father McAvoy ^y the American 

Catholic Historical Association. The award has been made annually since 1944 to the author of a distinguished book.relating to Church history. Father McAvoy was honored for his new book. The Great Crisis in American Catholic History, 1895-1900. 
'Presentation of the $200 award was made during die Association's 38th annual convention at the Hotel Statler, New York City. Father McAvoy was also elected second vice-president of the 1,028-member organization at the ses­sions. 
Earlier recipients of the John Gil­marj' Shea Prize, named for the emi­nent American Catholic historian, in­clude Monsignor John Tracy Ellis, CadioHc University of America, AVash­ington, D. C , and Monsignor Philip Hughes, the celebrated British historian who is now a member of the Notre Dame faculty. 
Fadier McAvoy, who is Notre Dame archivist as well as chairman of the liistor)' department, is "an authority on the history of the Catholic Church in the United States. A native of Tipton, Ind., he is the author of The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789-1834, and A History of the Catholic Church in the South Bend Area. Father McAvoy is managing editor of Notre Dame's quar­terly Review of Politics and is a fre­quent contributor to professional jour­nals and popular periodicals. He was educated at Notre Dame and Columbia University which awarded him a doc­torate in 1940. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
Rev. Philip Schaerf, C5.C. (left), director of the Confraternity of the Immaculate Con­ception of Our Lady of Lourdes at Notre Dame, conferred recently in Rome with Eugene Cardinal Tisscrant (right), chairman of the international committee for the Lourdes ceii­tennial in 1958. The Church has granted special indulgences to those who ^Tsit the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes at Notre Dame during the centennial year. 
§peeial Indulgences Granted for Visitors to Grotto During 1958 

Catholics who visit the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes at Notre Dame during 1958, the centennial year of the Virgin Mary's apparitions at Lourdes, France, will receive special indulgences recently granted by the Church. 
According to Rev. Philip Schaerf, C.S.C., who conferred with Church officials at the Vatican and at Lourdes, a plenary indulgence may be obtained by members of any group that visits the campus shrine during the centen­nial year. Persons who visit the Grotto as individuals will receive a partial in­dulgence, he said. Father- Schaerf is director of the Confraternity of the Im­maculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes whose headquarters are on the campus. 
(A plenary indulgence. Father Schaerf explained, is remission in whole of the temporal punishment due to sin. A partial indulgence is remission in part of such punishment, he said.) 
The special indulgences were granted by the Tribunal of the Sacred Peni­tentiary at the Vatican during Father SchaerPs recent visit to Rome. While in the Eternal City he was received by Eugene Cardinal Tisserant who is chairman of the International Lourdes Centennial Committee. The climax of Father Schaerfs mission to Lourdes and Rome was a private audience with Pope Pius XII who blessed the work of the Confraternity and commended the Notre Dame family for its iminter­rupted devotion to Our Lady. 

Earlier Father Schaerf conferred with Bishop Pierre Marie Theas of Lourdes. The French prelate confirmed the 1874 establishment of the Confra­ternity at Notre Dame, extended to it all the indulgences and privileges of the Archconfratemity in France, and imparted his blessing "on all those who work for the glory of Our Lady of Lourdes." He appointed Father Schaerf as his personal representative to present the dossier of the whole Archconfratemity to the Holy Father. 
'While in France Father Schaerf vis­ited the Motherhouse of the Sisters of Charity and Cliristian Instruction at Nevers. There Mother General Anne Marie Crebassol gave him a first class relic of St. Bemadette to whom the Blessed Virgin appeared eighteen times at Lourdes beginning on February 11, 1858. Subsequently the French peasant girl became a nun. She died in 1879 and was canonized twenty-five years ago in 1933. Her body, still incorrupt, lies in state today in the Motherhouse at Nevers. Her relic soon will be placed in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
Only sixteen years after Our Lady appeared to St. Bemadette at Lourdes, the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception of Our Lady of Lourdes was established at the University in 1874. In 1896 Notre Dame's beautiful Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes, a replica of the world-famous French shrine, was completed. In the inter­vening six decades tens of thousands of students, alimrmi, pilgrims and visitors have prayed at the candle lit shrine. 
Meanwhile, the Confraternity grew in numbers and became nationally known through The Ave Maria and other publications of the Holy Cross Fathers who operate Notre Dame. Through the Confraternity, the campus became and continues as a center for the distribution of Lourdes water in the United States. Many favors through the years, spiritual and physical, have been attributed to Our Lady and re­ported to Confraternity headquarters by its members. 
Detailed plans for Notre Dame's ob­

servance of the centennial of Our 
Lady's apparitions at Lourdes will be 
announced at a later date. Father 
Schaerf said. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 13 








^ustoda^... 
Visitor Questions Religion Boom 
The t\-pical American has developed a remark­
able capacity "for being serious about religion 
without taking religion seriously," a Jewish scholar 
declared at a Notre Dame s>'mposium on "Roman 
Catholicism and the American Way of Life." 
Dr. Will Herberg conceded that the United 
States is "in the grip of a great religious boom" 
and "an upsurge of religion without precedent in 
recent times." However, "the very same people 
who are so unanimous in identifjing themselves 
religiously," he pointed out,' "do not hestitate to 
acknowledge that religion is quite peripheral to 
their everyday lives." Dr. Herberg discussed "Re­
ligion and Culture in Present-Day America" at the 
opening session of the two-day symposium sponsor­
ed by Notre Dame's historj' department. He is a 
professor of Judaic studies and social philosophy 
at Drew University, Madison, N. J. 

Maxwell Made Audio-Visual Chief 
Prof. Frank R. Maxwell has been appointed director of the Department of Audio-Visual Aids at Notre Dame. Everett A. Wareen, who has been super\'ising audio-visual matters at the University, will continue as a technical specialist in the de­partment. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1942, Maxwell is an associate professor of physical education. He holds bachelor's and mas­ter's degrees from Notre Dame and is a candidate for the degree of Doctor of Education at Indiana University. 
School Guide Published in Spanish 
A Guide of Information on Catholic Educa­tional Institutions in the United Stales has been published, on the campus, in Spanish by the Cath­olic Committee on Inter-American Student Prob­lems. 
According to Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C, vice president of the committee and editor of the pub­lication, only about 1,000 out of 12,000 Latin American students in the United States are at­tending Catholic colleges and universities. The new volume, designed to inform Latin Americans about Cathohc educational institutions in this countr)', will be distributed south-of-the-border by the State Department, the bishops of Latin Amer­ican nations, missionaries and other selected con­tacts. 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Marchf 1958 
•M^Mkiz^^ 


Brown Honored by U. of Michigan 
Professor Frank N. M. Brown, Head of tlie Dept. of Aero Engineering, received a distinguish­ed University of Michigan Alumnus Award at a convocation for the dedication of the new Aero and Automotive laborator)- on the campus at Ann Arbor, recently. 

Solid South Melting, Speaker Says 
There is no longer a solid South of segrega­tion, Professor Guy B. Johnson of the University of North Carolina stated at a Notre Dame sym­posium on "What America Stands For." Johnson was one of five speakers at the symposium which was sponsored by Notre Dame's Committee on International Relations, a research group whose activities are supported in part by the Rockefeller Foundation. Other speakers discussed various aspects of contemporary American life including our economic system, agriculture, labor-manage­ment relations and films and television. 
"The battle over desegregation is very bitter right now, and it will get worse before things get better, but there can be no doubt as to its out­come Professor Johnson emphasized. "Not only the Supreme Court, but the Christian ethic, the American Dream and time itself are on the side of freedom and equality," he said. 

Support for MURA Atom Smasher 
A $77,300 grant has been awarded to Notrc Dame from the National Science Foundation to support its 1958 Summer Institute for High School Teachers of Mathematics, Dr. Arnold Ross, head of the University's mathematics department, an­nounced recently. 
Nearly 200 teachers are expected to enroll in Notre Dame's sbc-week summer institute program beginning June 19th, Professor Ross said. He ex­plained that the NSF grant will underwrite the tuition, subsistence, dependents' allotments and travel expenses of appro.vimately half of tlie stu­dents depending on individual needs and require­ments. 
Further information about Notre Dame's 1958 Summer Institute for High School Teachers of Mathematics may be obtained by writing Dr. Arnold E. Ross, Department of Mathematics, Notre Dame, Indiana. 

>=is!{:ni 

Eastman Kodak Awards Direct Grant 
Eastman Kodak Company has announced the awarding of a direct grant to Notre Dame and 57 other leading colleges and universities in the United States. These various awards are part of the continuing Kodak program of financial aid to higher education. The direct grants, valued at $286,000, will go to 58 privately supported colleges and universities on the basis of graduates of those institutions who joined the company five years ago and are presently employed. 
Under the direct grant plan, payments of $500 are provided for each year of normal academic work completed by the student at the institution from which he was graduated in a regular degree program at either the undergraduate or graduate level. In order to qualify for these grants, the institution must also have had a number of grad­uates who have been employed by Kodak for more than five years. 
NSF Aids Math Teacher Institute 
The National Science Foundation has awarded a $160,000 grant to the Midwestern Universities Research Association (MURA) for the support of basic research on high enei^ accelerators, accord­ing to an announcement today by Alan T. Water­man, Foundation director. 
Notre Dame is one of fifteen educational in­stitutions which have pooled their scientific know­how to build the world's greatest atom smasher at an estimated minimum cost of $100,000,000. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, is a, member of the board of directors of MURA whose offices and laborator)' are located at Madison, Wisconsin. Notre Dame comptroller G. E. Harwood and physics professor Bernard Waldman also represent the University in the project. 
O'Brien Book Cites Great Converts 
Six outstanding figures in Catholic history, all of them converts, are the subjects of Giants of the Faith, (Hanover House, Garden City, N. Y.), a new book by Rev. John A. O'Brien of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
A leader in the American convert movement, Father O'Brien portrays in popular style the lives, work and significance of a half-dozen men "whose conversions changed the world." They are Saint Paul, "the greatest missionary of all time"; Saint Augustine, "probably the most influential Chris­tian thinker after St. Paul"; Cardinal Newman, a mighty figure of 19th century England; G. K. Chesterton, the celebrated British author and critic; Orestes Brownson, 19th century American editor and controversialist; and Isaac Hecker, founder of the Paulist Fathers. 
Giants of the Faith, the Catholic Family Book Club selection for December, is the latest of more than twenty books written by Father O'Brien many of them dealing with converts and convert-making. In addition to his writing and speaking in the field, Father O'Brien has been instrumental in inaugurating Catholic Census and Information Programs in more than twenty archdioceses and dioceses throughout the United States. • 
Foster Grant Renews Fellowship 
Notre Dame has received a grant of $7,300 from the Foster Grant Co., Inc., Leominster, Massachusetts, renewing a postdoctoral feUo%vship sponsored by the firm in the University's chemistry department. The grant supports research in the field of polymerization of vinyl aryl compounds conducted by Dr. Conrad Bruschweiler tmder the supervision of Dr. G. F. d'Alelio, head of the chemistry department. 

Kennedy Named Carnegie Fellow 
Dr. John J. Kennedy, associate professor of political science at Notre Dame, has been appoint­ed a Carnegie Research Fellow by the Council on Foreign Relations of New York. He has been granted a three semester leave of absence by the University to conduct a study of Argentine foreign policy. Entitled "Argentine National Interest and the Inter-American System," the project will be sponsored jointly by the Council and Notre Dame's Committee on International Relations. 
Professor Kennedy is a member of the Com­mittee and also serves as an associate editor of Notre Dame's quarterly REVIEW OF POLI­TICS. He is the author of the forthcoming book, 
Catholicism, Nationalism and Democracy in Ar­gentina, which will be published by the Commit­tee early next year. 

Burton Warns of Atom War Toll 
Architects cannot possibly create a type of construction which can survive an atomic bomb war, according to Notre Dame scientist Milton Burton in a speech to the Indiana Society of Architects. 
Dr. Burton, head of the Radiation Project, contended that "the world cannot survive a war of that kind. We are already so highly developed technically and are so dependent on highly in­volved techniques for manufacturing our goods, for cultivating our land and gathering its products, for distribution of power and water," he said, "that one can say almost didactically that an atomic bomb war will mean the end of civiliza­tion as we know it." 
O'Malley on Wilson Committee 
Professor Frank O'Malley, of the Notre Dame English department, has been named to a regional committee which will select recipients of Wood­row Wilson National Fellowships for the 1958-59 school year. His appointment was announced by Richard C. Boys, associate professor of English at the University of Michigan and national director of the Wilson Fellowship program. 
The Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation will award nearly 1,000 grants for one year of graduate study to Jime, 1958, graduates interested in a college teaching career. Fellow­ships will be presented in the humanities, social sciences, and, for the first time, natural sciences. A student may be nominated by any professor for the award. If his application is foimd suitable, he will be interviewed by members of the regional committee. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 17 

Father Cavanaugh 
(Continued from page 11) 
and universities are to achieve tlie ex­cellence to wliich ihcy aspire. 
'•.•\dinissions standards must open up opportunity only for the boy of intelli­gence and character ulso is disposed to exchange hard, constant work, from Septei:ib?r to June, for tlic develop­ment of h:s mind. Indolent, shiftless students." he obseived. "arc an insuf­ferable harden upon any educational institution." 
".-Mumni often seem i-eluctant and fearlul when their college or university seems too anibitious in its aspirations to excellence."' he said, and ",-\Iumni also hapjjen to be the ones whose chests swell out in pride when their college or university is singled out for the ex­cellence of its work, for the outstand­ing men it has [Jroduced." 
"There is a tremendous reser\-oir of leadership in the 2,500,000 alumnae and alumni of our Catholic institutions of higher learning.' Father Ca\anaugh pointed out. If this potential Catholic leadershiiJ can be activated, if a ix;spect for culture and scholarship is engender­ed in our homes, if Catholic schools and colleges achieve excellence, then a Catholic triumph in scholarship and leadership "will give us something to cheer about" ten or fifteen years from now. he concluded. 


Law SchooS 
(Continued from page 10) lessor Kellenbcrg is one of three rep­resentatives of the legal profession. 
Prof. .•X.nton-Hermann Chroust of the Xotre Dame Law School is the author of Socrates. Man and Myth, a new book published recently by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame Press and Rout­iedge & Kegan Paul, London, 
The impact of Socrates and the So­cralic problem on western thought "is beyond all comprehension," Professor Chroust writes, but the man himself lia.s become "a hopelessly elus<\e if not completely legendaiy figure." The pur­pose of this new book is, in the author's words, "to penetrate the veil of So­cratic fictions and thus reach the level of factual histor\-—if this is at all pos­sible. For if histoiy or historical re­search has anv meaning whatsoever, it signifies the establishment of facts and not myths." 
The closer wc adhere to the textual tradition about Socrates, the more it becomes obvious that wc kno\v very little about Socrates, Chroust contends. The literaiy Socrates, he writes, "is above all a legend or the product of a legend, created by a host of myth-mak­ers who, like all fiction writers, wove a fabric of myths around some historical facts in which tlie latter became com­pletely submerged." 
A member of the Notre Dame facul­ty since 1946, Professor Chroust is a specialist in jin'isprudence and the his-tor\- of the classics. 

R. I. P. 
.\Ir. Frank J. McCarthy of Wash­ington, D. C , died on September 30 following an unsuccessful operation. .•\ vice president of the Pennsylvania Railroad, he was national chairman of the Notre Dame Law .Vssocia­tion's Scholarship Program and a member of The Law School's .-\d­visoiv Coimcil. 

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., received his commission as a member of the new Ciril Rights Conunission from President Eisenhower (foreground) at a White House ceremony January 3rd. Other Commission members are (left to right) J. Ernest Wilkins, assistant secretary of labor; former governor John S. Battle of Virginia; former governor Doyle E. Carlton of Florida; Dean Robert G. Storey of Southern Meth­odist University Law School (behind President Eisenhower); and Commission chairman John A. Hannah, president of Michigan Slate Univ. 
J8 Noire Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 




Basketball Squad Approaching Close Of Strong Season 
Approaching the end of a highly sat­isfactoiy season, the Notre Dame bas­ketball team has lived up to Coach Johnny Jordan's best expectations and furnished a few surprises. 
Tile Notre Darners have piled up some respectable winning streaks, and during the Christinas holidays they out­distanced Purdue and Indiana for the Hoosier Classic championship, clinch­ing their claim with a win over Butler shortly thercaftcr. They have now en­tered the most arduous phase of the toughest schedule ever attempted by an Irish squad. 
Retaining foiu- starters from last year's N.C..-\..A. quarterfinalists (only John Smyth, center and team captain, was graduated), the Irish have found an able center in junior Tom Reinhart, who was virtually imtested in last sea­son's play. Reinhart has worked well as a reboimder and outside man in Coach Jordan's double-pivot offense and has occasionally taken high-scoring honors. 
Forward Tom Hawkins, last year's single-season record scorer, has main­tained a position among the nation's scoring leaders in spite of concerted at­tempts by opposing defenses to bottle him up. Co-captain John McCarthy has also been a consistent and formi­dable scorer. 
But the real spark plug of the Jor­danites' offense has been diminutive (five feet, six inches) guard Gene Duf­fy, whose expert ball handling and 

CAGE COACH MARRIED 
John J. Jordan, Notre Dame bas­ketball coach, and Mi-s. Eileen Sim­on, South Bend widow, were mar­ried recently in the Log Chapel on the Notre Dame campus. Jordan's first wife died last vear. 

dribbling skill has blended with the de­fensive prowess and scoring potential of co-captain Bob "Iron Man" Devinc in the play-making department. 
A. capable Irish "bench" includes monogram winners Ed Glcason and Lee Ayottc, plus Mike Ireland, Bob Brad­tke and Emmett McCarthv. 
Testimonial Banquet Hails Resurgent Irish Gridders 
The 38th annual football banquet, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley, honored Terr\­Brennan's Fighting Irish on Dec. 12, 1957, in the new dining hall. Toast­master Don McNeill, host of radio's beloved Breakfast Club, ran his head-table speaking team through its paces. 
"Cactus Jack" Curtice, Univeisily of Utah coach and triinnphant mentor of the West team in this year's East-^Vcst Shrine game, was one of the featured speakers. Curtice interrupted his Ken­tucky-boy monologue only briefly for serious remarks, principally to rap "col­lege administrators who have an I w League approach but want Oklahoma results" and to laud football as a game for leaders and a valuable preparation for life. He indicted four character defects as equally intolerable on the job and on the football field — carelessness, laziness, dishonesty and inability to get along with others. 
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., ex­ecutive vice-president and chairman of the faculty board in control of athletics, evaluated the season, emphasizing that there was no disgrace in Notre Dame's three losses, each "to a top team in the countiy." 
Fatlier Joyce added: "It has not al­wavs been tnie tliat a 7-3 season at Notre Dame has evoked such genuine rejoicing among Notre Dame followers, bvit this year it is true. Last year's over­whelmingly losing season, unprece­dented as it was, came as a bombshell and many jumped to the conclusion that Notre Dance's proud winning tra­dition was being buried forever." 
The week of the 7-0 Oklahoma up­set was recalled as a "bad week for journalistic acciu-acy" as Father Joyce desciibed how student enthusiasm and the ensuing Irish victory- refuted two articles in national magazines. A na­tional picture weekly had carried an article describing a lack of student in­terest in football, and a sports publica­tion had featured a cover stor\' on "Why Oklahoma is Unbeatable." 
Praising TenT Brcnnan for his suc­cess in "restoring confidence" to the squad. Father Joyce hesitated to call the 1957 group a "great team" but added that the soph-junior majority "will still have a chance • to carve a niche for itself among the great teams of Notre Dame football histor\-." 

"Sleepy Jim" Crowley, halfback of the 1924 Four Horsemen, told a few of his famous stories filled with humor and nostalgia before getting dowTi to the job of presenting awards. First came the Grantland Rice plaque, a newly instituted award to the most valuable player of the Notre Dame­.'Xrmy game as determined by a poll of the pressbox, sponsored by Crowley and fellow horsemen Elmer Layden, Don Miller and Harr\- Stuhldreher in memor\- of the late dean of sports scribes. The 1957 edition of the plaque went to fullback Nick Pietrosante. 
Pietrosante and guard .'\1 Ecuyer also received United Press All-American awards for the third and first teams respectively. Teny" Brennan was the recipient of a "coach of the year" trophy, again sponsored by the legen­dar\- '24 backfield and Joe Byrne, Jr., '15.' 
"I'm prouder of this team than of any other that ever represented the University," Crowley said in closing. "Notre Dame's two finest victories were over AiTny and Oklahoma. You are my favorite team." 
Coach Brennan underlined his be­lief that "when things are tough, you don't criticize. You get together and work a little harder." 
"Notre Dame is a very proud name," he added, "and I hope we never take it for granted." 
Outgoing co-captains Dick Prender­gast and Ed Sullivan passed the shil­lelagh representing team leadership to ne.xt season's co-captains, Ecuyer and tackle Chuck Pimtillo. Each made a brief impromptu speech. 
Other speakers \vere: athletic direc­
tor Ed Krause, who introduced other 
sport teams: South Bend Mayor Ed­
\\-ard F. Voorde: Don Fisher, president 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 19 
of tlie St. Joseph Valley Club and sports publicity director Charley Cal-


N. D. WINTER SPORTS ROUNDUP 
lalian. The invocation was given by 
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C, Notre Dame's Nice-president for academic af­fairs and chaplain of the St. Joseph Valley Club. 
Departing senior monogram winners included Dick Prendergast, Paul Dju­basak. Bob Gaydos, Frank Kuclita, Ed Sullivan, Aubrey Lewis, Dick Lynch and Chuck Lima. Pat Dolan, Carl Hebert and Ron DeNardo won senior ser\'ice monograms, and Jolin Mc-Ginley, Dick Shulsen and Bob AVard had won letter in previous seasons. 
Other monogram winners are: ends, James Colosimo, Gary Myers, Richard Royer, Monty Stickles and Robert AVetoska: tackles, Frank Geremia, Donald Lawrence, Bronko Nagurski and Charles Puntillo: guards, Kenneth Adamson, Allen Ecuyer, Albin Sabal and James Schaaf; centers, David Hurd and Robert Scholtz; quarterbacks, George Izo, Donald White and Robert AVilliams; halfbacks, James Grotty, Patrick Doyle, James Just, Frank Rey­nolds and Richard Selcer; and full­backs, Nick Pietrosante and Ronald Toth. 

CROSS COUNTRY 

The 1S57 cross country team finished the season as the most successful of all Irish harrier squads by virtue of their win in the National Collegiate Cham­pionships at East Lansing in Novem­ber. 
Notre Dame, with team balance showing the way, edged out second-place Michigan State by sbc points. Ed Monnelly, Chicago senior, was the top Irish finisher. Other high placers were Dave Cotton, captain Dale Vanden-Berg, Vic Dillon and Mike Haverty. 
Ales. Wilson's harriers finished \vith two out of tliree wins in dual competi­tion, a first place in a six-team meet. They captured the Indiana State and Central Collegiate Conference crowns, in addition to die N.C.A.A. victor)' and a second-place finish in the I.C.A.A.A.A. championships. 

TRACK 

The track picture is very bright, witli no major losses from last season. Top star Aubrey Lewis is a late starter in dashes, quarter-mile and relay because of a football-aggravated calcium de­posit on his ankle, but the team also boasts Dale VandenBerg, top collegiate half-miler of the past indoor season; Jack Cote, 24-foot broad jumper, also a high- and pole jump ace, hobbled slightly by a pulled muscle; Joe Fore­man, Canadian Olympic starter, in dash and quarter-mile, and Dick Di-Camillo, veteran miler. 

WRESTLING 

AVrestling got off to a good start with an impressive series of wins for the Irish in the early season. Particularly strong starts were made by senior and captain Bob Pivonka, junior Bucky O'Connor, junior Jim Rankin and sophomore Jerr)' Saschel. Football's Bronko' Nagurski is a late heavyweight entry. The Irish will meet Marquette and Wheaton March 8 and are set for the 4-1 Tournament at Case Tech, Cleveland, March 14. 

FENCING 

The fencing season opened with a flourish. A two-day triple win over Detroit, Illinois and the Air Force Academy did much to bolster the hopes of Professor-coach Walter Langford, starting his twelfth year as tutor of the Irish swordsmen. Missing in epee were graduating co-captain Denis Hemmerle and Terry Laughlin, dogged by illness. Sabre ace Joe Klein, injured in a sum­mer Navy accident, and the top three performers in foil were also gone. 
Monogrammers Ron Farrow and Jim Jock posted early triumphs in epee, backed by John Keams. Returnee John Lauerman looked good in the foil, which also boasts sophs Jim Rus­somano and Jerry Johnson. Captain Dick Fagon leads the sabre division. The team is grooming for the N.C.A.A. Championships at Texas Tech, Lub­bock, Te.s., March 21-22. 

SWIMMING 

With only three men gone from last year's squad and a promising group of freshman tankers, the swimming club's outlook for the 1958 campaign has been bright for Coach Gil Burdick. With 30 men on the squad Burdick has depth in ever}' event. 
Col. Frank Fehr, '93, a member of Notre Dame's first football team, was honored at half­time ceremonies during the Notre Dame-Indiana game this past fall. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president and chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics, presents Col. Fehr a monogram jacket while Airs. Fehr observes. 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
Akron 
The annual Holiday Formal Dance for the benefit 

^ of the Scholarship Fund was held on Saturday, Dec. 28 in the ballroom of the Sheraton Hotel. Frankie Reynolds' orchestra made music from 10:00 'til 
r 2:00 for the fine crowd ol alumni and guests. Chairman BOB KAPISH, assisted by President 
I GERRY KLEIN and a hard working committee, were responsible for the success. Special thanks to: JOHN DAR.\GO, JACK HUMMEL, GEORGE DEKANY, GERRY McDERMOTT, BOB KOLB, and BRUCE RAFF for their contributions — also 
J to the capable ladies* ticket committee, headed bv MRS. GER/\LD KLELN' and MRS. JAMES WALTER. 
The football excursion in October ^^'as a fine success. A good time was had by all — even to the perfect topper with the Irish victor>' over Pittsburgh. Plans are already inaugurated for a repeat next fall. The Akron Alumni enjoyed a most successful buffet dinner in September with over a hundred alumni, students and guests in at­
• tendance. Tliirteen new freshmen in the Akron area have been accepted to begin their studies at ND this month. The Club is grateful to FIUVNK 
i STEEL '25 for obtaining PAT G\NNY as guest speaker —D.AN MOTZ, *54, Secy. 
Black Hills 

The Notre Dame Club of the Black Hills had a Communion Breakfast at St, Ambrose Church, Deadu'ood, South Dakota on December 8, 1957. The Club, newly formed jn September of 1957 and 25 strong, featured a few remarks by the Rt. Rev. MONSIGNOR \\*EN2EL SOBOLEWSKI on the Immaculate Conception. Msgr. Sobolewskt grad­uated from the University in 1913, 
In addition the Club showed the film entitled 

"Notre Dame." 
The Club draws its membership from the entire Black Hills area of South Dakota. An election of officers is planned in the early spring. At present the Club is being piloted by a board of directors. 
—WILLIAM H. aVRNAHAN, M9, Acting Secy. 

Boston 
On September 5, the Annual Freshman Dinner was held at the Fresh Pond Restaurant in Cam­bridge and was a big success. We had the largest turnout of alumni that we have ever had for this event. Twcnty-six freshmen with fourteen, fathers, coupled with eight undergraduates and three guests gave us a whopping total of 92 men present. The credit for this successful affair can be given to CHARLIE MURPHY, '49, and his assistants, BILL O'BRIEN, '44, DICK D. KIRK, '49, BILL Mc-CORMICK, '47, DOUG ROBERTSON, '52, and CHUCK PATTERSON, '47. The guest speakers were FATHER FR/\NK GARTL.\ND, C.S.C., editor of the Catholic Boy Ma3a::inc and ARTIE GORE, former National League umpire. The incoming freshmen included JOE ME/VNEY, '61, cabin boy on the Mayflower's recent voj-age from England to Plymouth, Mass. and two brothers who fled from Budapest, Hungary after the revolt. The evening was concluded with a showing of the new" Notre Dame film and the introduction of all in­coming freshmen to JI^I BRENNAN, '58, presi­dent of the undergraduate New England Club at Notre Dame. 
The Scholarship Fund Drive was concluded on October 1, and was also very successful. The draw­ing" was held at the Universitv Club in Boston and the first prize winner was .MR. L. J. \VESTWATER of Boston. He received the alternate cash award. Second prize was won by MRS. MARY MC­CARTHY of Randolph, Mass. Mr. and Mrs. 
McCarthy vvon the all expense paid trip to the Notre Dame-Army game in Philadelphia and had a wonderful time. The Scholarship Fund Drive netted our club a sufficient return so that we are well on our way now to inaugurating an annual scholarship for a worthy high school student. BILL AfcCOR>IICK, *47, was chairman of this drive and ^vas ably assisted by all the officers, directors and area chairmen to help put this affair over the top. 
On September ID, FATHER JOHN CAVA­NAUGH kicked off his Foundation Drive in Boston with a dinner which was attended by all the officers, directors and area chairmen. We sincerely hope that our solicitation of the alumni on behalf of Father Ca\'anaugh has paid ofT and we arc anxious to hear what our percentage ol contribution is for the Boston Club alumni. It w*as a real treat to talk and listen to Father Ca^'anaugh again and we certainly wish him all the success in the world on his Foundation Pro:;ram. 
The Annual Victory Dance was held on October 26 at the M.I.T. Faculty Club in Cambridge and all those present had a wonderful time. The Faculty Club was a per.'cct setting for this affair and the orchestra was unusually good making it a very pleasant evening for all. JOE CLANCY, '50, was chairman of this dance. A Notre Dame blanket and beer stein were the door prizes. 
On Saturday, November 16, the Eastern Company of Cambridge, distributors of RCA products, opened their studios to all Notre Dame alumni, their wives and friends to view on color television the Notre Dame-Oklahoma game. Refreshments \verc served to all those present. Needless to say, we witnessed a wonderful game and a great victory for the Irish. We were all enthusiastically (to put It mildly) pulling for Terrj" and his team and really celebrated their triumph. Most of those preicnt attended Bilinstrubs after the game and TONY MARTIN joined in our celebration by singing the Victor>' March. We are very grateful to the Eastern Company for their gracious hospitality which en­abled us to get together in a group to sec this big game. 
Wc held our Annual Communion Breakfast on December 8. JOHN HICKEY, *44, was chairman of this event and the guest speaker was his father, THO-MAS HICKEY, SR. of South Bend. Mr. Hicke>- was KNUTE ROCKNE's Godfather and long time personal friend. 
In Januarj' we held our first retreat at St. Gabriel's Retreat House in Brighton. 
Club Calendar 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO — First Tuesday of ever}' month at 8:30 p.m.. Hotel Sheraton, 715 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is reserved for lunch at K. of C, 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 
CENTRAL OHIO —First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Virginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 

CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—First Wednesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High Street, Perth Amboy, N. J. 
CHICAGO—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12:15 p.m.. Western Society of Engineers Club, 84 E. Randolph, Chicago. 

D E C A T U R — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Greider's Cafe, North Water Street, Decatur, 111. 
ERIE — First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m., Sept. thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT LAUDERDALE —Second Thursday of each month, dinner, at 
7:30 p.m.. Governor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 

KANSAS CIT\'—Weekly luncheons, Thursdays, at Famous Restaurant, Kansas City, Mo. 
MIAMI—First Thursday (night) of every month at the Urmey Hotel, 34 
S.E. 2nd Ave., Downtown Miami. 

NEW JERSEY—Informal monthly luncheon at Kelly's Seafood Restaur­ant in downtown Newark, first Fri­day of each month. 
OKLAHOMA CITY —First Monday of each month, night, check McFar­land's Drive-In Theatre, Oklahoma City, Okla., for details. 
PHILADELPHIA — Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philo­patrian Club, Philadelphia, Pa. 
PITTSBURGH—Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa., at 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12 noon. Powers Hotel, Rochester, N. Y. (If this is a holiday, meeting is held on second Monday.) 
ST. LOUIS—Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jeffer­son, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday of each month. 
WASHINGTON—Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street N.W., Washing­ton, D. C. 
WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 
12:15p.m., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling, ^Vilkes-Barre, Pa. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 21 
DOUG ROBERTSON, '52, has been chairman of our publicity program on our Kotrc Dame film and has rt-ccivcd enthui'iastic response from many hicli .schools in Massacl inserts. Doug, BILL O'BRIEX, DICK GILFOVLE, '24, CV KELLETT. 22, and DICK HERLIHY, '48, have shown this film to various schools. If any alumni wi^U to show this film to a school or an organization, please contact Dtnig Robertson for a re!.er\'ed date. Tliere is no cliargc. 
We arc pleased to announce that LOUIS BUCK­LEY, '28, TIM TOOMEY, '30. and JOHN* D.AXIELS, '46, have recently transferred into our area and wc are looking forward to seeing them at our activities. 
—DICK HYLAND, '50, Sco". 

BufFalo 
.\i our last monthly meeting the final report of the Nolle Dame-Army football excursion was given by Chairman TONY ROCCO. We are happy to report it was a financial success, especially since this beneliu the scholarship fund by the Buffalo Club to Notre Dame. 
The annual Christmas Dance, sponsored jointly by the Notre Dame Chib of Buffalo, the Notre Danic .-Muinni AVives, and the Buffalo Xolrc Dame Campus Club, was held December 2G at the Buffalo Trap and Field Club. Mr, and Mrs. JOE WAT­SON were co-chairmen. 
Tiic Communion Breakfast, which is one of the religions highlights of the year, was held on December 8. JACK LaVIGNE, the club vice-president. ser\ed as cJiairman. 
At a suggestion bv President FIL\NK GAGLI­ONE, FATHER GARDNER, C.S.C- lias been closing our montlilv meetings with an inspirational talk. 
—TONY ROCCO, '49, Secy. 

Calumet District 
A festive crowd of alumni, students and guests turned out for the annual Christmas Dinner Dance of the Calumet Region Club December 30, 1957. Held at the Sportsmen's Club in Lansing, HI.* the afTair featured a steak dinner and dancing to Pat DeMurc's orchestra. 

Central New Jersey 
The club's annual student-alumni meeting to welcome new students of the area to the Notre Dame family was Iicid on September 4. Tlie new full color film "Notre Dame" was received with much favor. JACK RE.\G£R and BILL DUN­HAM s^^'c brief reviews of Notre Dame campus life of the past. Fortunately, a stenographer was not present. 
Tiic almnni-studcnt dinncr-dancc was held on December 28. 1957, at the Rarilan Yacht Club in Perth Amboy. Co-chalrmen JOHN LISICKI, D.AN GRACE and ED SADOWSKI did a fine organiza­tional job. Other coming events discussed were a ri'peat of last year's trip to Madison Square Garden for tlic N.D.-N.Y.U. basketball game and tlic annual Notre Dame Night in the spring. 
—JOHN J. DOYLE, Secy. 


Central New York 
On September 11, the Notre Dainc Club of Cen­tral New York, held its annual student sendolf in conjunction wiih the annual golf party. There were approximately 80 people present and these consisted of alumni, present students and their fathers and Incoming freshmen and their fathers. The affair was held al the Belleviic CouiUrj' Club in Syracuse under the cliairmanship of DAN KELLEY with the assistance of GEORGE KEOUGH and JACK Mc-AULIFFE. 
President PHILIP SHE/\N gave a brief talk on the Notre Dame Foundation. 
The film, "Highlights of Notre Dame,*' was shown and President Shcan announced that this film is available for showing at cUib meetings, cliurcli gatherings, etc. MR. JAMES McDONALD, /\s­sistant Program Director of AVSYR TV, was a guest ol the club in order that he misht view the film with the idea of showing it on the local T\'' Station at some future date. 
After tlic dinner new officers were elected and they arc: President, BILL BISER; \'ice-President, TED DEMMERLE; Regional Vice-President, CH/\RLES GEHERIN; Secretar>-, TO.M QUIN­L.\N; Treasurer, JIM AVELTER. 
The entire club expressed a %'otc of thanks to 

President Shean for an outstanding Job during the s^ past year. y. FATHER JOHN CW^VNAUGH, C.S.C., was in [ Syracuse on September 14 to meet with the local '<­foundation committee and officers of the local ;y alumni club. There was a reception for Father * Cavanaugh at the University Club In Syracuse from ^ 
3:30 to 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, September 14. 
—J. GARVEY JONES, :,] Past Secv.-Treas. =• 

Chicago 
The Notre Dame Club of Cliicaj5o lidd its annual Golf Outing September 9, 1957, at Elm­hurst Country Club. Tliis was a little later in the season tiian usual, but thanks to the efforts of Chairman TOM NASH, JR. and Vicc-Chairinan BUD BURKE the usual good time was had by all, even the non-golfing early arrivals led by BILL 0'LEJ\R Y whose sprained back kept him from athletic action. 
On October 19 the Club held a ver>- enjoyable and highly profitable Cocktail l*.irty for the benefit of the Scholarship Fund. The patty was held at the Casino Club and proved to be one of the most enjovabic events of the vcar. Co-chairmen R.\Y DURST, '2G, and DO.V HOG.AN, '42, raised more money for the Chicago Club Scholarship Founda­tion by this party than has ever been raisetl before according to Foundation President THOMAS BE.\COM, '20. Some of the other members who helped make this astounding record are: 
Ticket Sales, General Chairman, \VM. R. .MAHER, '24; North Side Co-chairman, BETTR<\M 
L. .METZGER, '31; West Side Co-chairman, JOSEPH L. RIGALI, '26; South Side Co-chair­man; Judge THO.MAS C. DONOVAN, '24; Ar­rangements, ROBERT J. LE.VNDER, '49; Pa­trons, JOSEPH E. .MERRION, '20; Publicity, FRED A. JOYCE, '33; Refreshments, AUSTIN A. McNlCHOLS, JR., '49; Raffles, MISS RITA SEA­.\1AN; Reception, FR.\NCIS J. -MILLIGAN, JR., '45; Women's Auxiliary, MRS. WILLIAM P. WHITE, JR., '39; Mailuigs and Printings, WIL­LIAM J. KENNEDY, '37. 
Chairman PRIAL CURRAN and Co-chairman WILLUM F. WHITE handled last minute pre­parations for a record turnout for our Communion Breakfast December 1. Mass was celebrated at 
AURORA—The club's Communion Breakfast was held at the estate of Lynn Hankes follotving the Mass which was celebrated at Holy Angels Church. One-hundred-twcnty-threc persons attended this event. (Left to right) Len Heinz, Bill Hankes, Owen Kane, Father James E. Norton, C5.C., Gil Bryan, John Bryan and Ward Gosselin. 
22 Noire Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
CLEVELAND—Guests at the club's Communion Breakfast included (left to right): Ed Rcidy, Foundation Chairman of Lorain; Don Miller, Honorary President of the Cleveland Club; Tom Byrne, Foundation Chairman of Ohio; William R. Daley, Member of the Lay Board of Trustees; John P. Afurphy, Member and former President of the University Lay Board of Trustees; Jim Colleran, BreaHast 
Chairman; Father Hcsburgh, C.S.C., guest speaker; and Denny O'Xeill, President of the Cleveland Club. 
St. I'clcrs by FATHER JOHN aW.ANAUGH who \¥as also the principal speaker at the breakfast at the LaSalle Hotel immediately after Mass. Other guests were: FATHERS MATTHEW WALSH, THOMAS ftRENN,\N, CHARLES CAREY, LJ\URENCE BROESTL, and JOSEPH BARRY. 
—KENNETH G. ENRIGHT, JR., '48, Secy. 
Cincinnati 

Tlic Club's biggest acti\'ity of the year. The Scholarship Ball, was held Friday, December 27 in the PavilJion Caprice of the Ncthcrland Hilton Hotel. President RAY GUDMENS appointed STEVE HEEICIN as General Chairman. Sir. and Mrs. JOHN FEr\D were Administrative Chairmen and BOB LEONARD u-as Patrons Chairman. This is the twelfth consecutive year for the ball. The purpose is to raise money for the scholarship fund in order to assist deserving students at the Uni­versity. Over eight hundred couples attended. 
On Sunday, December 8, the club held the first of what promises to be an annual Christmas toy collection. JERRY MAHGN was Chairman. He was assisted bv JOHN COTTINGHAM. NATE BOND, JOHN FE.AD, ED. MERSM/VN, R/\Y GUDMENS, BOB McCVPFERTY, DICK A'HEARN and JOHN McCORMICK. The toys were do­nated to needy children through St. Joseph's School, Cincinnati. 
The December meeting was held Wednesday, Dec. 11, at the Fenwjck Club. Mr. Dave Grotc of the National League of Professional Baseball gave an interesting talk on the present condition of our national pastime. 
—JOILN F. .\fcCORMICK, Sea: 
Cleveland 

The annual scholarship raflle proved to be a fine success, with BILL SCULLY handling the details. A cro"d of about 150 turned out at Rohr's to vicu­the 1957 N.D.-.\rmy game films, narrated by Herman Goldstein of the Cleveland News. VINCE DeCR.-\NE was the winner of the two tickets to the Na\"v game (including two nights at the Morris Inn and'5200). 
FATHER L.\WRENCE BROSTL, C.S.C. joined CLAYTON LEROUX and TOM McHALE repre­senting N.D. at College Night at Shaker Heights and Lakewood High Schools November 12 and 
13. Herb True, Assistant Professor of Marketing spoke to a full house at the Cleveland Advertising Club luncheon at the Hotel Stailer November 13. 
Reactivated this year was the Family Communion 

Breakfast, after a two year lapse. Ml who at­tended agree that this should be a continuing event. The annual Christmas Dance was held December 27 at the Hotel Carter, with TOM BREMER as the chairman. A kickofT party was held December 3, to beat the drums for this the biggest of the club's events. 
—TOM McHALE, Secy. 

Columbus 
COL. JOHN F. BRITTON, Notre Dame alumnus in command of Lockbourne Air Force Base, spoke at the November 4, 1957, meeting o! the Columbus Club held at the \'lrginia Hotel. 
The annual Communion Breakfast was held Dec. 8 at Kuenning's Restaurant following 9:00 Mass at St. Joseph Cathedral. FATHER LEO R. WARD, C.S.C., author and Notre Dame faculty member, was the guest speaker. "BUD" MURPHY was the master-of-ceremonles. 
The annual Christmas Dance was held December 27 in the Grand Ballroom of the Neil House. A festive throng of ahimni, students and friends was on hand at the scml-formal afFair to dance to Bob Marvin's orchestra. 
Dallas 
.Alumni who attended the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist game flocked to the pre-game rally of the Dallas Club Friday night, Dec. 6, 1957. in the Grand Ballroom of the Statler Hilton Hotel. Tlic affair began at 9 p.m. and ran Ear into the night to the music of Johnny Cola's band. Coaches and athletic officials from both schools, as well as FATHER HESBURGH and Dr. ^ViUh Tate, presi­dent of S.M.U., were on the program. .All pro­ceeds from the rally went to the club scholarship fund. JOE H.AGG.\R was general chairman, and other chairmen were LxVNK SMITH, JIM HOST\% JOHN MOR/VN, JACK SCHROETER, BILL a\REY, TONY 20PPI, JOHN SIERR/\ and P.AT SCHROETER of the women's auxiliary. 
Tlie fall Communion Breakfast was held October 27 at the Lakewood Country Club after Mass at St. Tliomas Aquinas Church. DALE FILVXCIS, editor and columnist, was the guest speaker. FR:\NK FINN u*as chairman of the program. 
Dayton 
.\ Smoker Meeting was held on the 3Dth of September at which time the drawing for the winner of the Club's raffle was held. The lucky winner of the raffle, BOB LaMATRE, received two tickets to the Army-Notrc Dame game, Philadelphia, and expense money for the trip. Other past events included a card party held by the Women's Aux­iliary Group of the Club on November 12. 
Other events on the Club calendar included the .fVnnual Communion Breakfast, held on December 8. The Mass as celebrated at the University of Dayton Chapel with the breakfast following at the Gibbons Hotel, where our speaker was DR. RICHARD BAKER, Professor of Philosophy at the Umvcrsity of Dayton. The Annual Christmas Dinner Dance was held on December 28 at the Miami Valley Country Club. 
New members of the Club include JACK LYNCH, FR/\NK SCHILLO, DAN SHOUVLIN and aVPTAIN T. J. REAGIN. 
We regret to announce the passing of the mother of our 1956 Club president, FILVNK .McBRIDE. —T. E. Li\NDGREN, Secy. 
Dearborn 
At the September 20, 1957, meeting at Gene Rheaume's Recreation Room plans were finished for a bus excursion to the Michigan State game, which accommodated 120 November 9. The club's Golf Outing was held September 24 at the Dear­born Country Club, followed by a steak dinner and awarding of prizes. A Brewery Vsaty took place October 22 at the Circus Room of the Gqebel est^lishment. The Dearborn Notre Dame Club participated in a Tri-University Dance November 1 at the Dearborn Country Club with the Michigan and Michigan State alumni clubs. Tickets for the N.D.-MSU game were dispensed at a meeting in DICK KING'S home November 6, and at TOM TUCKER's home December 6 movies of the X.D.­Oklahoma thriller were shown. 
Decatur 
The Notre Dame Club of Decatur held its first official meeting at the Blue Mill Restaurant on November 13, 1957. At tliis time a consututioa and by-laws were approved and adopted. 
Our first slate of officers ^^-as elected at this time and is as follows: 
President, BERNIE MARTY, '37; Vice-President, BOB UHL, '50; Secretary. AHLT BE^iUDINE, '54; Treasurer, GEORGE HUBBiVRD, '54; Directors 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Marck^ 1958 23 
(three). BERXIE LIVERGOOD, SY ILVPIER and BUZZ MOR.\X. 
AVe were all vcrv- pleased with the turnout for our first meeting — 38 for dinner (19 alumni). Ma.<;ter of ceremonies for the afTair was STE\*E GRALIKER, wealthy young man-about-town, and entertainment •was proWded by another alumnus — JOHX FOY, who b quite a comedian. Tlic evening started \vil\i cocktails, ^vhJch ^vcrc fol­lowed by an excellent roast prime rib dinner-Among those who enjoved the dinner were ALLiVX L.\XDOLT, GEXE GEORGES, .VNDY CHAN, HOWARD MURR.\Y, JOE DO\OV.\X and JOHN DONOVAN. The class of '54 was the best rep­resented. Beside our secretary' and treasurer there were JIM UHL, FR^VNIC LEX and ExVRLE RUDOLPH, all of '54. 
We feel ver>- fortunate that in a city of only three Catholic churclics we are gifted to have a priest who is also a Notre Dame graduate. He Is FATHER ARTHUR D. LeBRETON, wlio is naturally our chaplain and spiritual director. 
Monthly luncheons are held on the fourth Wednesday of evcr>- month at Greider*s Cafe on North Water Street in Decatur at 12:00 noon. All alumni and friends are in\'tted. 
-.\nLT BEAUDINE, *54, Sec>-. 

Denver 
I recently had a night out, a steak dinner get-together at Ernie's Supper Club (Ernie Capillupo. Denver's "Sidewalk .-Mumnus of the Year"). Among those present were BART 0'HAR.\, LOUIS HOUGH, CHARLEY H.VSKELL, JI.\I HxVNLON, AL DOUDS, BOB DICK, FR.\NK CO.NRQY and BOB FLYNN. Rest assured that many tall and slightly exaggerated tales were told! RAY HUMBLE dropped by for a minute, but the srooke was too thick for a longer visit. Any-way. 
Ray was ver>- busy with J1.\I SHEEH.\N and ED MAHONEY manufacturinj our annual Christmas party, which turned out as big and successful as ever. 
MAJOR DAN MONAGH^VN was recently in town from Austria, of all places. Dan is an Air Force surgeon. He helped us celebrate the Oiila­homa victory. Hurr>' back, Dan. 
BUCK SHAW is doing a great Job bringinj alon^ his Air Force .-Vcadcmv Falcon". —LEON ARCHER, Secy. 
Detroit 
.-Vnotlier in a series of parties designed to ac­quaint the younger alumni \vith their fellow ND men in the Detroit area was held last October 19 at the Botsford Inn Barn. Chairmancd by JOHN O'NEILL, '4H, the party was an informal one known as the "Good Time Party or Else," and was enthusiastically acclaimed a great success by the 60 couples attending. 
Tlic informally dressed couples danced to the music of a three piece combo. Intermittently, throughout the evening, were intervals of square dancing featuring a professional caller. The im­promptu nature of this activity generated a great deal of enthusiasm. Beer, cider, doughnuts and dancing kept the crowd busy until late, and an impromptu community sing kept lUc late stayers occupied until the wee hours. 
L-\RRY SMITH, '49, TO.M VERBIEST, '52, E.MORY D.\KOSKE, '53, BILL ANHUT, '51, and PETE KERNAN, '49 helped O'Neill make this a memorable partv. 
—LOU CONROY, Seo". 

Eastern Illinois 
On Sept. 2B, 1957, the Xotrc Dame Club of Eastern Illinois sponsored its annual football trip to Lafayette, Ind., for the Notre Dame-Purdue game. Approximately 84 persons were in attendance. After viewing a Notre Dame victor>', the trip was cHma.tcd bv a dinner for all at the Knights of Columbus Club in Danville. DON FIGEL, '42, president of the Club was chairman of the event. 
A week later on October G, 1957, the Club held a picnic for all of the members and their families at the farm of ED l^WDEN of Hoopeston, III. .Xppro.vimatcly 30 persons attended and a wonderful lime \*'as had by all. 
The annual Communion Sunday was held on December 8, 1957, with Mass and Communion in St. Paul's Church in Danville and breakfast at the Gricr Lincoln Hotel. 
—E. F. SEDLM.\YR, Sec>-. 

El Paso 
Our most recent activity was the commemora­tion December 1, of Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Our group, logetlier vvith their wives and famtlies, attended Mass in a body at Saint Pius X Cliurch. The Mass ivas celebrated by FATHER IRVING KLISTER, class of '39, who has been with us at St. Pius X for several years. Immedi­ately afterward wc met for breakfast at a local motor hotel. 
In attendance were: EDWARD L. BOYLE, '39, GOR.MAN BROCK, '49, DR. E. T. ETTL, MO, JAMES R. FORD, '49, TI.M H. H<WRAIL\N, '30, EDWARD T. JE.VNINGS, '53, GUS P, .MO.MSE.V, JR., "49, ROBERT E. O'.MALLEY, '45, RICHARD 
S. S.MITH, '37 and JOH.V SL^UICK, '55. The group was increased by the fact that some of the men w*ere accompanied bv their wives and families. 
—GORMAN BROCK, Prcs. 

Erie 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was 
BOSTON—^Father Cavanaugh atteniicd the kick-off dinner for the Foundation Drive. From left to right, Bill O'Brien, '44, club presi­dent; Bill Dacey, '49, treasurer; Father Cavanaugh; Dick Hyland, '50, secretary; Bill Healy, '44, past club president, and Dick Herlihy, '48, 
past club president. 

24 Notre Dame AlumnuSy March, 1958 
NORTHEASTERN OHIO—^Attending the organizational meeting were: Daniel Samnian, JMcntor; Joseph M. Prokop, Kirtland Twp.; Ralph W. Wright, Wickliffc; Patrick J. Stclh'sano, Eastlakc; Robert N. Divecn, Painesville; Joseph C. Strauss, Painesville; Leo J. Lardie, Thomas M. Kclkcr, Joseph M. Gardcucin, John E. Lynch, and John P. Mahoncy, all of /Vshtabula; Raymond Poach, whose son is a sophomore at Notre Dame and Ben Klepek of Coaneaut. 
licid Dec, 8, 1957, and u"as termed vcr>- successful by all in attendance. Wives of the alumm joined their husbands for Mass at St. Peter's Cathedral and breakfast at the Lawrence Hotel following Mass. FATHER TED a\RTER, chaplain at St. Vincent's Hospital in Erie, *vas the guest speaker and LEO J. BRUGGER, '34, was tlic toastraaster. Tlie committee for the affair consisted of JIM MAHOXEY, '51, TONY Z^VMBROSKI, '52. JOHN McCORMICK, JR., '53 and LEO J. BRUGGER, '34. 
Attending the breakfast were ^f^. and Mrs. JOSEPH BARBER, '36; Mr. and .\frs. DON BUSECK, '50; Mr. and Mrs. RICH.ARD D. DALEY, '17; RICHARD T. DALEY, '53; Mr. and Mrs. JOHN S. YOUNG, '51; Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH STADLER, '53, Mr. and Mrs. HERB KERN, '54; Nfr. and Mrs. JOHN GOULD, '57; RAY LEGLER, '57; Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DU­a\TO, '48; Mr. and Mrs. >aKE YARBENET, '47; Mr- and Mrs. JIM DWYER, '37; Mr. and Mrs. ^\'M. GRANT, '45, and the committee members and their wives. 
Congratulations arc in order for Mr. and Mrs. JIM MAHONEY, 51, the former Mary Ann Geigcr, whose wedding took place November 9 in Elyria, Ohio. DICK DALEY, '53, now* working for the United Press In the Pittsburgh area, was dis­charged from the Na\y earlier this year. LEO J. BRUGGER, '34, took Im wife and five children to Notre Dame this past September where Leo, Jr., the oldest, registered for this year's freshman class, JACK DAUT, '52, has been assigned to the Erie district by the General Telephone Co. of Pennsylvania and is looking forward to alumni get logethers. E/\RL T. O'CONNOR'S, '19, health has improved with (he improvemcat of the football fortunes of the Fighu'ng Irish. BILL GR/VNX '45, and his family are looking forward to moving into their new home. JOE BARBER's, '36, sod, Joe, Jr., age four, is already getting ready for the class of 1975, JACK GOULD, '57, is working with Ernst & Ernst, Accountants. JERRY NILES, '54, was married this summer to the former Kathleen Haider, and both are now in Philadelphia where Jerry is finishing his last year of medical school. JOHN McCORMICK, JR., '53, and RICH Mc­CORMICK, '55, are both the proud fathers of sons born recently, John's July 28, and Rich's Oct. 23. JACK PALMISxVNO, '55, and ED KERN, '56, are both now serving in the .-Vrmy. DICK DALEY, *17, captain of the 1916-17 basketball team is pleased with the showing of Johnny Jordan's cagcrs this season. Dick is feeling much better after a stay in the hospital. HERB KERN, '54, and his wife, Sally, happy to be back in Erie after two years in Georgia with the Army. They recently purchased a Iiome. TO.VY Z/VMBROSKI, '52, had a girl addition to his family in 1957, making one boy and two girls now. Tony and his wife, Marian, enjoyed the N.D.-U.S.C. game in South Bend. JOHN YOUNG, '51, and his wife took in the .Vrmy-Notrc Dame game in Pldladelphia. LtWVR-ENCE STADLER, '28, and JOE STADLER, '53, arc doing a good job running Superior Bronze. FRED STRASSER, '57. now in the Army. Fred and TOM YOUNG, '53, can be added to the list of those married this year. JOHN KELSCH, '54, and BOB FRIES, '54, both recently released from the ser\'jce. John and Bob arc both now working in Detroit. Sympathy to GEORGE J. ME^XD. '27, on the recent death of his mother. Notre Dame alumni in the Erie area were quite proud of the plav of JIM SCHfV\F at guard for the '57 Fighlins Irish. DON BUSECK, '50, was the proud father of twin boys last April. Tliat's three bo\-s for Don now. PHIL HAGGERTY, '53, released from the Army last February is now in the construction (home building) business. Our fine club chaplain, FATHER RICHARD POWERS, '50, is teaching at Cathedral Preparatory SclmoU RAY LEGLER, '57, with his father at Leglcr Plating Works. JOHN \\'.-\LSH, '57, now at medical school in Philadelphia. 
JOHN YOUNG, '51, club president, has gone ahead ^flth plans for monthly meetings In 1953 and plans arc already being formed for election of ofliccrs in March and Universal Notre Dame night hi .'\pril. 
—JACK GOULD, Sec>-. 

Flint 
The third annual Notre Dame Club of Flint football excursion was held on Saturday, Nov. 2, 1957, and was attended by 150 people. The ex­cursion was held in conjunction with the Notre Dame Club of Detroit. 
The senior football players from St. John Vianncy and Holy Redeemer Parochial Schoob were guests of the respective parishes. 
A good time was had by all and we are anxiously awaiting next year's excursion. —WILLL\M F. MINARDO, Excurison Chairman 
On Sunday, December 8, the Notre Dame Club of Flint had their fourth annual Communion Break­fast. AV'e had 78 at the 8:00 o'clock ^fass at St. 
Michael's Church where FATHER JOHN A. W.ALSH of the University offered Mass. 
At Scliaich's Restaurant we had a family break­fast with 71 people attending. Father Walsh gave a ver>- interesting report on \-arioit5 phases of the University, stressing the aims and ideals and out­look for the future. 
—ART PAR.\DIS 

Fort Lauderdale 
.•\t our September 12 dinner meeting at the Governor's Club, 46 assembled members voted to establish a Broward County Blood Bank for local and %'isiting alumni and also planned parties for football, Valentine's Day, July 4 and possibly St. Pat's. 
Since my last report our club has be«n more than active. Ac our meeting in October, at which more than 100 persons were present, the results of our annual sweepstakes were determined, and .\fr. ROBERT GRIECO was the lucky donor who received the invitation to attend the Notre Dame-Army game, all expenses paid. Unfortunately for him, he desired not to take the trip. 
Also during the month of October, the club had a successful radio party at which we gathered to hear the Aimy game. Of course, you know the results of the game, and my only comment is that the only persons who enjoyed tlie game more than our SL\ty-odd assembled guests were our few lucky club members who were able to make the trip to Philadelphia and witness the game in person. 
During the month of November, we again had a very successful meeting, though a bit different from our regular meetings. Some 52 members with their wives boarded one of our local cruise ships for a trip up the Intracoastal Watenvay to the Barefoot Afailman, a very famous hostelry, where a magnificent roasi beef dinner was enjoyed, along with a complete floor show. At the hotel we were tendered a more than royal welcome as true sons and daughters of Erin. In fact, some of the spirit shown and accorded us must have reached the team by means of telepathy or other­wise, for, as you know, the team certainly carried the spirit and prevailed during the Oklahoma game. And this brings up the final item. Some 125 members and guests assembled in the Governor's Club for our annual TV party, and needless to say, no one ^vas disappointed at either the party or the results of the game. 
Finally, in closing, all of us here as members of the most active and number one Notre Dame 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 25 
group of tlic counto't extend our grcclings to all of our less fortunate brethren. If any dispute this last statement, \vc stand ready to prove it to any and all comers at anv time. 
—GEORGE H. GORE, Scc>-. 
The Fort Lauderdale Club's Television Party was 
one that u-iU be referred to for a long lime to 
come, if not always, as the best TV party \vc 
ever had. 
You could feel the mounting excitement before game time as Notre Dame alumni, the associate members and guests began to fill the Senate Room of the Governors' Club Hotel. Mission completed, wc scr\*ed numerous trays of what everyone said was super delicious hors d'oeuvres. 
Approximately 70 members and guests vocifer­
ously applauded the party and the rclanding of 
N'otrc Dame among the football elite. 
FATHER MENDEZ, FATHER GEISE and a contingent from West Palm Beacli were honor guests. 
—JE.\N MOSS 
Fort Wayne 
Tlie election of new oflicers was held at the Club's annual picnic at Robinson Park Pavilion in September. T\*KE H/\RTM/\X was picnic chair­man, and there were 70 members in attendance. Special guests ai ll»c event were FATHER THO.MAS J. O'DONNELL, C.S.C., and JAMES FRICK of the Univcrsiiy. 
Elected were: ROBERT J. KLIXGE.NBERGER, '51, president; JOHN L. SOSEXHEI.MER, '48, \-ice-prcsidcnt: JOSEPH H. DANIEt, '50, secrctarv, and PAUL SCHIRMEYER, '48, treasurer. 
On October 21, J957, the Fort Wayne Club held its annual Football Smoker at the CentlivTe Social Rooms. BOB O'REILLY, '43, was diairman of the c\ent. Guest speakers were FATHER WTL­LL\M LESTER, club chaplain and principal of Central Catholic High School, and the coaching sUff of C.C.H.S. Football highlights of the N.D. 1953 season were shou-n. 
The 20th Annual Communion Sunday was ob­ser\*ed December 8 at tlic Cathedral with breakfast following at the Kccnan Hotel. Sixty members attended. Father Lester was again the speaker. HENRY HASLEY and JIM BATES co-chalred the 
DICK ROSENTHAL spearheaded cfTorts to pro­mote local alumni ticket sales for the Notre Dame-Valparaiso game in a t^vln bill at the Coliseum Januarv* 10. The enthusiastic response may make possible an annual classic in Fort Wayne. 

Harrisburg 
Tlic Notre Dame Club of Harrisburg was the 

guest of Mr. MORRIS S\VAB for the viewing, in 
color, of the Oklahoma game. Refreshments were 
sen'cd and a fine time was liad by all. 
On December 8 the Club made its second annual 

football and leadership award ' at a Communion 
Breakfast held at St, Margaret Mary Churcli. 
Details of the Breakfast were Iiandled by DICK 
CRO^\T-EY, JR., w!io also acted as toastmasicr. 
Guests included tl-e principal and the football 
coach from cacli of the participating Catholic high 
schools, the boy nominated by his principal to 
represent his scliool, and the boy's father. Guest 
speaker u-as ihe Vcr>- Reverend GEORGE P. 
BEN.AGLIA, CJS.C, President of King's College. 
Eacli boy received a trophy. The winning boy 

received a larger trophy and, in addition, his 
scliool keeps the traveling trophy for the coming 
year. Tlic boys are judged on their scholastic 
prowess In specified subjects, their leadership qual­
ities and their football ability. Tlie winner is 
determined by a committee set up by the Club. 
—ROL.\ND H. BERGER, JR., '52, Sec\-. 
Houston 

Tlie Houston cliapter, after a very successful fall picnic attended by over 200, sponsored a chartered train to the ND-SMU game. PAUL DOYLE ser\cd as chalrtnan. 
A drive has been started to locate additional alumni who have recently moved Into the Houston area. Any alumni falling into this category, please notify the club sccrctarj*. LEO LINBECK, JR., 
P.O. Box J 3007, Houston 19, Texas, or phone him at MOhawk 7-1731. It Is imperative that we locate such alumni so that they may be placed on our mailing list for dub functions. 
The club's annual Christmas dance and cocktail party was held on the night of December 29 at the Houston Club. This party is' always one of the feature events on the club's calendar. 
The Ladies Auxiliary of the local club had ihcir day of Retreat at the Cenacle Retreat House. As a result of the fine attendance and general en­thusiasm shown for such a retreat, the ladies plan to make it an annual event. 
—LEO LINBECK, JR., Secy. 

Indianapolis 
Some 125 persons — youngsters and grownups — attended the dub's first family picnic. JACK ELDER, '30t was chairman of the outing, held September 1 at the Rock Island Refinery picnic grounds northwest of Indianapolis. 
President JOE McXAMARA, '47. planned the dub's annual football train, this year to the Navy game, DICK 0\\'ENS, '42, dub treasurer, Iiandled details on the train. Proceeds from the trip, wliich attracted a crowd of 500, will go toward maintain­ing the dub's three Notre Dame sdiolarships, granted to Indianapolis students. 
An innovauon this year was the club's Ticket Information Exchange. The program, publidzed by the three Indianapolis ne%vspapers, was designed to put those persons with football tickets they couldn't use in touch with those persons who wanted them. BILL HURRLE, '43, secretary-treasurer of the Sportsman's Store, acted as contact man. He estimated that he got 1,000 telephone calls during the season. 
Although those wanting tickets outnumbered those having ones a\'ai1ablc, an average of 60 tickets for each game changed hands. Most requests came la the Purdue game, played at Lafayette. The club was able to secure a bloc of tickets from Purdue, which eased the situation. Bill said the plan was must helpful when Asian flu struck Indianapolis. Many who could not attend were able to transfer their tickets to those who wanted them. 
Tlie dub expects to have the same program next year as a way to ser\'e the community and to Improve its public relations. 
Sons of dub mcmbcn. were im-itcd to the annual Communion Breakfast DcLi-mber 8 to hear FATHER MURPHY, director of admissions for the Uni­versity. Father told the youngster? how to prepare themselves so they can be eligible for enrollment in the years to come. Archbishop Paul C. Schulte was guest at the breakfast, which was chalrmaned by JOHN aVREY, '39. 
LEO BARXHORST, '49, who scored 778 points while playing basketball for Notre Dame, ser^'ed as chairman of the committee In charge of dub representation at the Hoosier Classic which Included Xotrc Dame, Butler, Indiana and Purdue. 
—JOE HERRINGTOX, '50, Secy. 

Joliet 
Our election of officers for llic Joliet Club in­

ERIE—^Alumni and guests attended the Universal Communion Sunday Breakfast on December 8. Father Ted Carter was guest speaker. 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
DECATUR—The club has been extremely active and the above group attended a recent meeting. 
dude: JOHN LUX, JR., president; DOUGLVS TALBOT, rice-president; JOHK L,\>'E, treasurer; WAYNE VERCELLOm, secretary. 
—DO.MINIC BOETTO 
Kankakee Valley 
The members and wives of Kankakee Valley Notre Dame Club were guests of Mr. and Mrs. ROMV H/VMMES at a dinner given in honor of the club and its activities during the past calendar year. It was more than a social gathering for the club because it brought out so well the enthusiasm and ambitious attitude of each club member. As was so *vell pointed out by our guest speaker, BOB DEVDs'E, co-captain of llic Notre Dame 1957-58 basketball team, "spirit" is the trade­mark of every Notre Dame man. 
On November 29, 1957, the club held its annual Thanksgiving Dance at the Kankakee Valley Country Club. 
Members, in the future, will be seeing mucli activity in the Kankakee Valley Notre Dame Club. —KEN F. BERGERON, »56, 5ccy. 
Kansas City 
TIic Alumni Club in Kansas City, under the able leadership of ED AYLWARD, president, has been laying the many plans for the fall and ivinter pro­grams some of which have been carried out. Out­standing support has been received from all mem­bers of the Club. 
The early fall was highlighted on the week end of the 31st of October, w-hcn approximately 160 people boarded a spea'al train in Kansas City to journey to the Nav>--Xotrc Dame game in South Bend. The excursion left Kansas City on the Thursday preceding the game, and arrived in Chicago the same night. Tlie Conrad Hilton opened its doors to the enthusiasts, and headquarters were set up immediately. After spending a day and a night in Chicago, the trip continued on Saturday to the campus for the game. The return was made right after the game to Chicago, and the trip ended on Sunday night when the special pulled into Kansas City. RUSS FARRELL and BOB METZLER co-chairmaned the affair, and a hearty thanks goes to them for their fine job. Talk has already started of possibly going to tlie Army game in '58 at South Bend. 
Previous to the excursion, the Club started a weekly luncheon program on Thursdays at the Famous Restaurant to talk over the preceding w^eek's game and discuss the coming game. This luncheon was continued after the season ended, as a good time is usually had by all in attendance. 
The 1957 .-Vnnual Alumni Fund Personal Contact Drive was turned over to the local clubs and the campaisn was under the direction of JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22, who set up a staff of 22 "generals" to help in the drive. Letters were sent out to all alumni, who were asked to contribute something, regardless of the size. In the next Alumnus we will be able to give our results. 
In tlie very near future, the Kansas City Alumni Club plans to publish a roster of all its members. RUSS FARRELL is presently working on this and should have it ready for the printer in the near future. The last roster was published about sl'C years ago and has become outdated. 
The annual Iou*a-Notre Dame joint Alumni luncheon was held on December 4 at the University Club in Kansas City. Films of the game of th^ year were sho\v7i to a good sized croivd, and the talk tended to discussion of the game. This affair is always one of good fcllo^vshlp and some pretty fair discussions on both sides. 
Commemorating the feast of the Immaculate Conception, the /Uumni turned out on December 8 for the annual Communion Breakfast. This year the Mass and meal were held at St. Theresa*5 .Academy in the south part of Kansas City. At­tendance reached aprpoximatcly 50, whidi was considered pretty good, considering that the 8ih was also Holy Name Sunday. 
The social program of the Club hit Its'climx'C of the year when on December 26, the Annual Christmas Dance was held at tlie Hotel President. An affair put on for both the students and alumni and their friends, it has al\vays enjoyed a tre­mendous success. Not only because of the dance, but also, it is preceded by a cocktail hour and fine dinner. BERNIE FINUa\NE and GEORGE HIGGINS handled arrangements. 
Sympathy is extended to BILL ROBERTSON, a senior at the University, on the death of his mother a few weeks back. 
Plans are also in the making here in Kansas City to set up a program for the high school seniors and any interested juniors who have an interest in attending Notre Dame. Plans call for a letter to be sent to high schools in the Kansas City area asking for a invitation to come and talk to the students about Notre Dame, and to show the new movie **Notre Dame" to them, and answer any of their questions. Also any interested PTA groups will be visited. iUong this line, ED AYLWARD and JOHN MASSMAN visited a meeting of the St. Agnes School PTA, The movie was shown and a brief informative talk was given. Questions were answered and literature made a%'ailablc to those interested. The Club in Kansas City hopes in this ^vay to make more students, and parents, in­terested in Notre Dame. 
The Club also in the last fe^v months has picked 

up two nexv members, E. BARRETT SCHLENK, and J. W. NAGLE. —JOHN T. ALASSALW^. '56, Secy. 
Kentucky 

The Notre Dame Club of Kentucky held three monthly business meetings during September, Octo­ber and November respectively. We were sorry to lose one of our members to the Nashville, Tenn., Alumni group, JOE HARMON, JR. Best wishes, Joe, in your new job. 
Our quarterly Communion Sunday was held on Sept. 1, 1957 at St. Mary Magdalene Church. FATHER GRAY read the Mass. The next Com­munion Sunday was a family affair, held on December 8, 1957, with a large attendance. 
The Club sponsored a football trip to the Navy game on November 2. The attendance w-as very good and ever>'one had an enjoyable time on the train. LEO BRO^VN and JACK KENNEY arc to be congratulated on a swell trip well planned. SufHcient time bet%%'een arri%-al at the campus and game time allowed a pleasant tour of the campus. -All who were on tlie trip will be looking fonvard to next year's trip. 
The Annual St. Xavier High School Football Banquet was held at the Kentucky Hotel on Nov. 20, 1957 to pay tribute to the 1957 Slate Champs. Notre Dame men on the speakers* table were our Club President JINt HENNESSEY and former head football coach, FRxVNK LEAHY. Mr. Leahy gave a very inspiring talk to the champs. The Club ^vas well represented in the cheering section and Mr. Leahy was given a standing o%-ation at the close. 
The annual Christmas Dance was held at the Provincial House on Dec 26, 1957. The students did the decorating and a pleasant time was had by all attending. 
A final push was given to the 1957 Alumni Drive by all members of the Club. —JOE BO^VLING, Secy. 
LaCrosse 
The Notre Dame Club of LaCrosse joined the other alumni clubs throughout the world In cele­brating the 25th Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday on December 8, 1957, Thirty oF the thirty-five members of the club were present. Mass was celebrated by FATHER THOMAS NINNEiL\N for the club at St. Dominic's Monas­tery and breakfast ^vas provided by the Dominicaa Nuns. This was the eighth consecutive tunc the club gathered at the Monastery. 
•Recently the dub inaugurated a Holy Hour at the Monastery. Six such Holy Hours vnU be held 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1958 27 
tlirougliout till* year on special feasts of the Blessed Mother. TIic first was held on November 21, the feast of the Presentation of the Blessed \'irgin Mary. St. DommJc's is a Monastery of Cloistered Dominican Nuns of Perpetual Adoration. It u-as well attended bv the members and their wives. JIM KRONER' and ROGER ZOELLNER are chairmen. 
In Scpiembcr. the club held its second annual Mixed Couple Steak Fr>- at JOHN R.\U's cottage. Again the club had belter than 90 per cent at­tendance. A fine time %vas had by all. The steaks were thick and delicious, the drinks refreshing. 
Officers elected for the coming vear were as follows: JOSEPH BECKER, president: JA.MES KRONER, vice-president; GERALD HEBERLEIN, secretary-: STEPHEN PAVELA, treasurer. 
The annual Christmas Dance was held December 27, Jim Kroner u-as general cliairman; GILES HACKNER and DO.V WELCH, decorations; JOE BECKER and STEVE PAVELO, Uckets; JERRY HEBERLEIN, publicity. This was the highlight social dance of the holidav season in the city-
JERRY HEBERLEIN, Scc>% 
Lehigh Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of Lehigh Valley spon­sored a most successful Club trip to the Aruiy-Notrc Dame football game on October 12. Fol­lowing the game, a reception was held at the Hotel U'anvick and a good time was had by all. The Club would like to express its thanks to the trip chairman. M. G. (MAURIE) OLSON, for a splendid job. 
The annual observance of Communion Sunday was held this year on December 8 at Mar>' Im­maculate Sennnar>'. A breakfast was held at the Hotel Bethlehem. 
Tlie annual Student Christmas Reception was celebrated on December 28. \Vc arc proud of the fact tliat we presently have 16 students enrolled at the Universitv from our area. 
—LOU W^TCNE, Sec>-. 
Los Angeles 
Wc Iiad a pretty fair turnout for last fall's Sports Dinner at the Pabst Brewery in L. A., with over 100 alumni in attendance. The chief speaker was JOE RUETZ, class of '38, cx-Sianford assistant 

coach, and now with the Stanford University admin­
istration, with offices in Los .Angeles. Master of 
ceremonies was JOHN WALL^VCE. 
The next event was the Annual Communion 

Breakfast, December 8, at FATHER L^TsCH'S. 
CS.C , St. Francis Xavier Parish in Burbank. 
where the Club went to H:00 a.m. ^fas5 and en­
joyed a brunch put on by Father Lynch'* church. 
Tlierc was a Notre Dame Holiday Dance at the 

Huntington-Shcraton Hotel In Pasadena, December 
28. The dance was sponsored by the alumni of 
Lo5 Angeles for the students and their dates. —GEORGE R. MEEKER, Prcs. 
Maine 
The Notre Dame Club of Maine was organized at a meeting Sept. 7, 1957, in Lcwiston, Mc. The meeting also served as a Freshman Welcome Party for new Notre Dame students from the area. Twenty-three persons attended the afternoon bar­becue and meeting — 11 alumni, four present stu­dents, seven incoming freshmen and two guests. Tlie new Notre Dame film was shown, and an election of officers xvas held. The following were elected. 
President, RAV.MOND A. GEIGER, *32, Lewis-ton; Mcc-Presidenl, LEO CORMIER, '37, West­brook; Area \1ce-Prcsidents, EDWARD FARRELL, '39, Old Orchard Beach and ROL.\ND DECO­TE/\U, '37, S<mth Paris; Secretary-, J. LEON.VRD TOBIN, '38. Lewiston; Treasurer, JOSEPH O^REILLEY, M8, Bangor. 
A few alumni gathered at a listening-in party for the Oklahoma game and cheered the spendid vic­tor>-. The Club was unable to schedule a Com­munion Breakfast due to the wide area spread of Its membership, but several events arc being con­sidered for the future. One of our first activities has been the showing of the color film *'Notre Dame" for a great many scliools and meetings throughout the state. 
—RAY GEIGER, '32, Prcs. 

Miami 
On October 3, 1957, the Miami Club held a meeting heralding the opening of the football season. Wves were inx'Ited, with cocktails, dinner, prize drawing and another showing of the film **Notre Dame" the order of the day. There was a fine turnout, and many small radio and TV parlies were arranged for the season. 
The wives had their turn at doing the inviting when they sponsored a Holiday Dinner Dance December 14, at the Miami Shores Countr>' Club. Members enjoyed cocktails, a roast beef dinner, dancing and a contest or two. 
Milwaukee 
The Milwaukee organization held a general nu-el­ing on October 9 to set forth plans for its win:er schedule of activities. Tlie montlis of November and December found members showing the techni­color film "Notre Dame" to area Iiigh school stu­dents. Questions on the University were answered and general information was passed out to interested students. It is felt that such an activity not only lends a true purpose to the local Club, but also assists the University to Interest a greater number of high caliber students in Notre Dame. 
FATHER GLEN BOAR.MAN, C.S.C., journeyed to Milwaukee following the Southern Cal game to celebrate Mass and speak before a large turnout at the Annual Communion Breakfast December 1, held at St. Charles Boys Home. BROTHER I^VWR­ENCE MILLER, CS.C. hosted the members and their wives and friends at the highly successful affair. President J. A. BYRNE, MO, presented a Check to Brother Lawrence for the Boys Home, which was cited as the number one Community Chest agenc>- during the 1957 Milwaukee Chest drive. 
.Another general meeting was held AVedncsday. December 4, to make final plans and arrangements for the big Holiday Dance, which was held on January 4. Tlie Baseball World Scries Band of Steve Swedish played for the pleasure of a large crowd of alumni, Notre Dame students, and friends in the new and beautiful Milano Room of the Milwaukee Athletic Club. Increased support of the Alumni and Milwaukee Club on Camiius arc certain to re-establish the Holiday Dance as a annual affair. All proceeds from the dance will be contributed to a newly established Scholarship Fund to be awarded to a deserving high school graduate In the Milwaukee area. The establishment of such a fund has been the goal of the Club membership during the 1957-58 fiscal year. Chairmen for the event were R, J. SULLIVAN, General Chairman; JOE MESEC and CHARLES O'BRIEN, Arrange­ments; JERRY YENTZ and WALT SCHNEIDER, Financial; and JOHN M.\NI0N, Publicity. 
LaCROSSE—Club members working out a backdrop for the annual Christmas dance include (left to right) Jerry Heberlein, Joe Becker, Giles Hackner, Don ^Velch and Steve Pavela. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—Club officers met with scholarship recipients on N. D. campus. Proceeds from membership dues and other club activities are used exclusively for the Schol­arship Fund. Scholarship winners are: (front row, left to right) James Bintinger, Thomas 
P. Bintinger, Joseph Jeziorski, Paul Manion, Keith Williams and Stephen Piacsek. Club officers, (back row, left to right): Rudolph A. Goepfrlch, secretary; Don Fisher, president; 
John Cackley, vice-president, and Edward Meehan, Jr., treasurer. Two students were absent when photo was taken. 
Chaiinian CHARLES O'NEILL reported that REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C., President of the University of Notre Dame, has agreed to be the featured speaker for Universal Notre Danic Club Night on April 14. A reception for Father Hesburgh will be held prior to the banquet, and will be open only to members in good standing of the Milwaukee organization. Academic, spiritual, athletic, and political leaders have written tlicir intention ol attending the evening's acli%'ities honoring Father Hesburgh. .Assisting Charles OWcill in the planning are JOHN P. CULLE.V and ANGELO GALDABINI. 
REV. THOMAS O'DONNELL, C.S.C. and ALL/\N J. POWEIW of the N.D. Fuundation joined the Milwaukee Club ofltccrs at a luncheon while visiting Milwaukee industrialists during the week of December 9. Under the direction of City Chairman JIM CASPER, the local Foundation appeal to the alumni was very successful. 
—JOHN F. MANION, »56, Secy. 
Mohawk Valley 
Pupil representatives from several area schools were special guests of the Mohawk Valley Club's recent Communion Breakfast in Hotel Utica, Utica, 
N. Y. More th::u 50 alumni members and guests from throughout Central New York received Com­munion at the 8 o'clock Mass in St. John's Church and attended the breakfast. The pupils were cited a>i *'Notrc Dame Juniors" bv the president, DR. 
D. C. O'SHAUGHNESSV of Herkimer. 
BROTHER PATRICIUS, CFX, talked on his Miminer school experiences with KNUTE ROCKNE. BROTHER URBAN FRANCIS, CFX, boys' su­perior at St. Francis de Sales High School, dis­cussed the kinship of Notre Dame and Lourdes and the role of the campus-based Confraternity of the Blessed Virgin in the ^Vmerican obser\'ance of the 100th anniversarv of Lourdes. He ^v-as intro­duced by toaslmaster FR^\NK DONALTY. Tlie gathering also enjoyed a film of the Notre Dame football highlights of 1947. Co-chairmen for the event were EDWARD J. SWEENEY and CH/\RLES HITZELBERGER, assUted by LOUIS CLARK. 
.Mumni attending included DR. D. C. SHAUGH­NESSY, DAN CALLAX, FRANK DONALTY, CH.ARLES HITZELBERGER, LOUIS CU\RK, DR. D. GAVx\G;\X, DR. A. PERESKE, JOE DI.\EEN, NICK KAUFM.AN, VI.X FLETCHER, JLM CURTISS, RAMSEY COLLIS, BOB PUR­CELL, TONY GIRUZZI, DR. R. BRE.VN".\.V, DR. 
F. A. .\L\RLVO, GEORGE .\IcKEE, TOM RE.\G.4X, FR.\NK CONNORS, BART O'SHEA, GEORGE HA.MELL\E, FR,V.NK OTT, and ED SWEE-NEY. 
Fatlicrs of present and/or former students in­cluded NICK DE.VN, .M. J\VEID, L. NICKNISH, DR. A. C. HITZELBERGER, KE.V MURPHY, MIKE McGUIRL, DAVE D\VYER and TDM NELSO.V. 
—EDWARD J. SWEENEY 
Muskegon 
The Xotre Dame Club of Muskegon enjoyed one of its largest g^l^crings for a football smoker aC BUI Sterns Steak House Monday evening. J. D. FITZPATRICK was chairman for tlic afTair and outlined plans for continuation of the annual scholarship atvard. 
RICHARD L. MASON, chairman of the Notre Dame Foundation in Muskegon described the recent developmants which have done much tor Notre Dame under the able direction of REV. JOHN J. CWJ\NAUGH , former president of the University of Notre Dame. 
REV. HERM.\N H. ZERFUS, Assistant Pastor of St. Francis Dt Sales Parish, was chosen Chaplain of the club in a new- procedure which involves a different chaplain each year selected from the assistant pastors of the Greater Muskegon area. 
ED F.ARHAT, Coach of ^fuskego^ Catholic Cen­tral High School, assisted by RALPH WEESE and JOSEPH FLYNN, assistant coaches, commented on moWes of the Holland and Grand Haven games played and won this year. 
Officers of the Notre Dame Club are: J. F. OEHLHOFFEN, President; AVILLLAM TARDANI. Vice-President; \aRGIL BARD.VSH, Treasurer, and LEO UNCK, Secretary-. 
New Jersey 
The big news from the Garden State concerns the success of the Annual Football Excursion, this 

FLINT—Father John Walsh, CS-C, head of the Department of Education at Xotre Dame, was guest speaker at a Communion Breakfast when he accepted a $300 check for the Uni­versity from the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Flint. (Left to right) breakfast chairman .Arthur Paradis; N. D. Foundation co-chairman Tim Halligan; Father Walsh, and club president Raymond J. Kelly, Jr, 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1958 29 
year to I'hiladdphia for the iVrmy game. Although the financial details have not yet been completely assembled, CliaJrman PEl'E QUIXX, '33, has an­nounced that the Jersc\- army numbered over 1,000. The well planned trip and thrilling win made the perfect package. Great ^vork, Pete. 
Tlie Club's annual Communion Breakfast featured RT. REV. MSGR. THOMAS J. CONROY, of Sacred Heart Parish (VaiUburg) Newark, as speaker. Under JIM FTTZSIMMONS', '50, guidance, the Breakfast, following 9 a,m. ^fass at Sacred Ifcart Cathedral, was h5d at the Sorrento restaurant. Sclieduling was something of an experiment, with a Saturday, December 7, cliobcn to eliminate some of the customary- baby-sitting problems. 
Our Club was honored on September 17 by a \Tsit from FATHER JOHN OVVAXAUGH, C.S.C., who discussed with us this year's Foundation Drive and offered some helpful suggestions lor coordinatmg the New Jersey Club's participation in the program. 
On Tlmrsday, October 10, a sizeable delegation of Jcrseyilcs attended the New York Touchdown Club's luncheon, dedicated to the renewal of the Army-Notrc Dame series, at Leone's restaurant. Sure was a thrill to sec and hear from so many of the all-time greats. 
Our First Friday luncheons, at Kelly's Seafood Restaurant in Newark, are fast becoming a perma­nent feature of the agenda. Out-of-towners who find themselves in the Newark area on that date art cordially invited to join us. 
—\\TLLIAM L. KIRCHNER, JR., '51, Sec>-. 
New Mexico 
The Albuquerque section gathered together in­formally u-ith friends of Notre Dame Saturday, November 16, in the Press Room of the Franciscan Hotel to watch the ND-Oklalioma game on color T\'. 
Sandwiches and coffee were made available to tliose who were overly exerting themselves jumping up and doun during the exciting moments. 
The Notre Dame wn certainly highlighted the occasion. Needless to say, a good time was had by all. Other sucli informal gatherings are being planned for the future. 
—G. J. LOMBARDI, Scc>-. 
New Orleans 
On September 28, 1957, 28 members of the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans gathered at /Vrnaud's Restaurant for lunch and to listen to the broad­cast of the Notre Damc-Purdue game. Wc ^verc all very happy at the outcome. The cheering and enthusiasm was so great you would think you were in the stadium listening to the student body whoop it up. 
Our second meeting of the season was on No­vember 16 \vhen 50 alumni, wives and guests gathered at the Melerie Country Club for luncheon and to watch the Oklahoma game on television. I need not tell you how thrilled we were at the outcome of the game. Suffice it to say that at the final ivhistle we gathered in a huddle and sang the X'ictory* March as it has never before been sung in these parts. 
AVc were happy to have with us the mother and father and an aunt and tmcle of the pride of New Orieans, ALI«\N ECUYER, Ail-American. 
Members present at this gathering were: MICHAEL C. CHAVANNE, WILLIAM F. D.\X1ELS, JOSEPH DAVID III, JULES K. DE LA VERGNE, ^\TLLUM B. DREUX, ROBERT ^V, GIRARDOT. JOHN W. HA.MrLTOX, PAUL 

E. HURLEY, PETER L. HILBERT, GEORGE W. HILL, DANIEL B. KILLEN. JOSEPH LAUGH­LIN, REV .JOSEPH MCALLISTER, CS.C, ED­WARD D. MCCARTHY, TH0XL\S F. JfcMAHON, THOMAS J. MC\LVHON, WLLU M V. RED­MANN, FRANCIS J. REYES, JOHN A. RILEY, JAMES E. SMITH, WLLU M S. SMITH, JR., W, J. TUSCON, and DON MURRAY. 
Guests included ^t^. and Mrs. JOSEPH O. ECUYER, Mr. and Mrs. O. ^V. ECUYER, Mr. and Mrs. DONALD BOHN, Mr. and Mrs. PHIL­LIP FOTO, Mr. and MR . E . P. RIVAS, AVIL­LIAM \TNCEN T and FR.ANCIS DOYLE. 
—JOSEPH DAVID HI, Sec^-. 
New York City 

KICKOFF MEETING On September 11, the doors of the Ruppcrt's Brewery Taproom were thrown open to all Notre Dame alumni of the New York area, under the chairmanship of GUS HARDART. Approximately 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1958 
FORT WAYNE—Officers %vho are serving for a two-year tcmi are: (front row, left to right) John L. Sosenhcimcr, \-icc-prcsidcnt, and Robert J. Klingenberger, president; (back row, left to right) Joseph Daniel, secrctarj*, and Paul Schimieyer, treasurer. 
300 men came to hear JACK I^VVELLE's prog­nostications of the coming football season. JAMES ARMSTRONG, National Alumni Secretary-, made a trip from Indiana to see how the eastern half of the country lives. Other guests included LT. COL. FR^VNCIS ROBERTS, Manager of Athletics, LT. G\nNN ORDWAY, Freshmen Coacli at West Point and REV. ROBERT McCORMICK, Catholic Chaplain at West Point. 
WESTCHESTER DIVISION 

Because of popular demand, the Wesiclieslcr Divi­sion of the Notre Dame Club of New York de­cided to hold a second golf outing under the chair­manship of HOWARD FAHEY. Fifty alumni and their friends had a great day on September 17, at the Westchester Hills Golf Club in White Plains. 
MISSION DINNER 

A testimonial dinner was co-sponsored by the Notre. Dame Clidj of New York and the Holy Cross Mission Society to do honor to twelve C.S.C.'s departing for Pakistan. MR. JOHN MADDEN, who's'son is JAMES MADDEN, '51, was chairman of this excellent affair. His Excellency, BISHOP FULTON J. SHEEN. D.D. was the principal speaker for the evening. 
TOUCHDOW.V CLUB OF NEW YORK 

All members of the Notre Dame Club of New York were inntcd to participate in a luncheon sponsored by the Touchdown Club of New York in Tccognition of the renewal of the Notre Damc-Anny scries, at the world's famous Leone's Restau­rant on October 10. Guests of honor included FATHER NED JOYCE, CS.C, Executive Vice-President of the University and JOE BYRNE, Mem­ber of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University. 
Over 400 were in attendance at this excellent affair, and we wish to thank the Touchdown Club for permitting us to participate. 
ARMY FOOTBALL TRIP AND POST GAME RALLY 

Over 2,100 alumni and friends traveled together on two special trains from New York to Philadelphia to cheer the "Fighting Irish" and their excellent nctcry over the "Black Knights" from West Point. TIic New York alumni were joined by alumni from Buffalo and Elmira, Ncv*^ Y'ork. Upon the return of all to New York City, a gala post game rally was held at the main ballroom of the Statler Hotel. Our thanks to TIERNEY O'ROURKE, JOHN DUFFY, TONY E.VRLEY, GUS HARDART, BOB REALE, AL LES.MEZ, JIM MacDEATTT, JACK MURPHY, BOB CRUINKSH.ANK, and all of those who contributed so much time and effort to make this a most successful activity ever sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
STAG PARTY AND BULL SESSION 

On November 19, a good old-fashion stag party u-as held at the New York Athletic Club for Notre Dame men only. Approximately 150 men showed up just to sit down and renew old acquaintances. 
LADIES AUXILIARY 

A Fur Fashion Show and Bridge Party was held at the Biltmore Hotel on Nov. 16, 1957. Over 140 wives of Notre Dame alumni and mothers of stu­dents were in attendance. Our thanks to MRS. PAT OLV^VNY, Chainvoman MRS. HUBERT SCHLAFLY and MRS. GENE MAGUIRE for running such an excellent affair. 
—BUD MULVEY, Secy. 

Northern California 
The Notre Dame Club of Northern Califorttia gathered at the Golden Hind Room of the Sir Francis Drake Hotel, San Francisco, to watch the color T\' showing of the N.D.-Oklahoma game. Among those present were: FR,\NCIS CRIBBS, '55; BOB RUSSELL, '53; TOM McaVFFERY, '48; L,\RRY HUESER, '49; Cdr. JOHX XtALONEY, '3fi, USN; ED MANSFIELD, '34; JERRY JONES, '21; AL KOEHLER, '24; ED MASSA, LL.B., '33; RUSS STECHSCHULTE, '30; WALLY CL^\RK, '55; BILL MANC^, '5G; BOB CONNELLY, '49; LEON GLOVER, '57; AL ZMJEWSKF, '50; JOHN KILNEN, '54; BILL COONEY, '51; NORM RUBBEN, '32; GENE KENNEDY, '30; FRANK COGHL.\N, '41; KE\'EN 0'SHE,\, '49; LIDO SHIAMAN, '48. 
The hotel management was so pleased with the turnout and the game result that they treated the entire 40-man gathering to a round of refresh­ments. 
—BOB CONNELLY, 
San Francisco Vice-President 

Northeastern Ohio 
In October North eastern Ohio Notre Dame alumni got togctlicr to organize a suburban club to meet outside of ^^etropolitan Cleveland. Mem­bers represent an area which borders the shores of Lake Eric from Cleveland to Buffalo. A large part of the organizational work ivas done bv JOSEPH C. STRAUSS, '51. On hand to extend congratulations was MSGR. EDWARD J. SE\\'ARD, *34, Cleveland, Ohio, who was named Xotre Dame Man of the Year several years ago by tlie Cleve­land group. 
Oklahoma City 
As far as the Oklahoma Alumni arc concerned the team couldn't have picked a better spot or aflpinoon to really be high, as we have been havinc a hard time Hvimr with the "40 to fl" beatini that wc got from Oklahoma last year, Tlicrc ^\•c^e only about 8,000 of us here but you can bet there were 8.000 happy people after that final gun went oft. M so many uriters have said, the Oklahoma crowd and team were ver>- sportsmanlike, and one of the most stirpristnc thJncs to me was that the 
O. U. band played the Victory Afarch after our touchdown, which is something I have never wit­nessed at any other school. 
Our Club started proceedings Friday with quite a few of the members meeting the team as they landed in Oklahoma City, and with four or five hundred other people, including students and one of the Catholic high school bands, gave the players quite a rou-sing welcome prior to their departure again for Chicka-sba. 
Tlie Club had a rally Friday night at the Bilt­more Hotel, and from our vie\^'Point. it %v'as a very successful gathering. BUCKY O'CONNOR was chairman of the affair, and DICK HOFF, did a great job handling the rally and football ticket situations. We had lots of out-of-town gtiests drop in to the sessions, inclndinc FATHER JOYCE. MOOSE KRAUSE, CHARLEY a\LL.\HAN, JOE BOLf\ND, and several sports writers. I don*t know if onr party can take any credit or not, but the Oklahoma players spent the night in the Biltmore Hotel and of course our party was not exactly the quietest party that has been had, 
I ran into JOE and ED HAGGAR. from Dallas, and JOE O'NEILL with WALTER DUNCAN Fri­day night. Right after the ball game, when my wife and T were tr>-ing to find a smiling face that would talk about the football game we bumped into BOB and MRS. CAHILL on one of the busses and had an enjoyable chat wnth them. 
Quite a few of us took in the SMU game of Dallas the first week in' December. Normally we set up our Communion Breakfast for the first week in December, but since this conflicted with the SMU game we had our Communion Breakfast on December 15. Tlic chairman for the breakfast was JACK NASHERT and wc attended ^^ass at Christ the King Church and had the breakfast meeting at the Oklahoma City Golf and Country Club. 
Later in the month, on December 27, wc had our Christmas Dance at the Twin Hills Countrv Club. CHARLEY MANNOT was the chairman of our dance. 
—ED KA\^\NAUGH 

Peoria 
The Peoria N.D. Club has elected new officers: RICHARD WALSH, M8, President; JAMES G. 
SCHERER, '51, Vjcc-Prcsidcnt; ROBERT GOR­DON, '51, Treasurer; W.NL D. CL.\RK, *47, Secretary, 
Our first activity was a Communion Breakfast held December 8. Mass was at the Cathedral at 
8:30 with breakfast following at Vonachcn's Junc­tion. FATHER DIETZE.N of the Pcona Catholic Register was guest speaker. 
~~\VM. D. CL.\RK, '47, Sec>-. 

Philadelphia 
The annual Communion Breakfast was held at the Barclay Hotel on the Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Each year at this event the Phila­delphia Club presents its trophy to the Most Out­standing Player in the Philadelphia Catholic League and also awards a wrist xvatch to the outstanding player who is elected by the players from eacli team. The REV. MARTIN J. McDONOUGH, of the Society for tlie Propagation of the Failb and BERNIE WITUCKI, Line Coach at the University were guest speakers. The Mass was celebrated bv the REV. BERNARD Mca\FFREV, C.S.C., Club ChAplain in Our Lady's Chapel of the Cathedral of Sts. Peter and Paul. 
W.\LT GROTHAUS, President, presented tickets to the Army-Noire Dame game to the St. Joseph's Home for Industrious Homeless Boys. 
The First Annual Scholarship Fund Dance was held at the Merion Tribute House, December 30, JIM LEYDON was chairman. The dance is to be held during the CIiri!>tni3S vacation each year. The undergraduates and their friends were invited to attend. 
—JOE UTIITE, Scc\-. 

Pittsburgh 
The Pittsburgh alnuini conducted an intensive drive for the Notre Dame Foundation Fund through the month of November with gratifying results. .\ high participation was achieved through the e.xtraordinari' efforts of city chairman LiVRRV SMITH and his Foundation committee. 
CHARLES CHRISTEN was inducted by the Board of Governors to ser\-e as president of the club until U..V.D. Night in April. LEO VOGEL, JR., asked to be relieved of the ofitce because hJs work demands that he be away from Pittsburgh almost continuously. The board accepted his resig­nation reluctantly. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday was observed December 8 at SS. Cyril & Methodius Seminary. Mass was said by REV. JOHN BO­BACK, prefect of the seminaiy, in the Eastern or Bj-zantine Rite. x\fter\vajds there was breakfast, a short tour of the seminary, a rosary and a showing of the new Notre Dame morie. 
TIic 32nd Annual Christmas Ball u-as held De­cember 30, 1957, in the .^Vlumni Room of the University Club. Jack PurcelPs music, the debut of the Pittsburgh Club's very own Glee Club and the arrangements of co-chairmen JOE GASPARELLA and JOE CELENTO made the evening the high­light of the Christmas season. Proceeds of the aflajr went into the Scholarship Fund. 
Rochester 
The Notre Dame-.\rmy game in Philadelphia provided the basis for a ver>- successful ticket raffle in October. Club members under the leadership of JOHN BURKE and CHARLIE O'BRIEN, Co-Chairmen, scoured the Rochester area. The draw­ing \V3S held a week before the game and BOB SKIPWORTH's mother vras the lucky winnen. 
The Rochester Club certainly rates as one of the most optimistic in the country. Several weeks before the Oklahoma game, the club scheduled a victory dinner to be held after the game on November 16. With the football team providing the proper setting, the club held its victory smor­gasbord dinner at Lorenzo's. A large turnout cele­brated with excellent food and dancing. Jack Burke w;u instrumental in making the arrange­ments. 
Tlie annual Family Communioa Breakfast was held on December I at McQuaid Jesuit High School. A turnout of 88 adults and 91 children enjoyed the actintics. MARY and BILL McCARTY did a fine job in organizing the affair. 
The Christmas fiance highlighted the Yule activ­ities in Rochester. A dinner dance was held on December 28 at the University- Club. BILL DEMPSEY and Mrs. DON (ELLIE) BOOTH were co-chairmen. 
The women in the Rochester Club have had an active fall season. .MRS. VIC DE SIMON was chairman of the November lunclieon. ^IRS. JACK HE.\CNEY and MRS. JACK BURKE assisted with details in the planning. A Spring Fashion Show is now in the formative stage. 
The Notre Dame family in Rochester is growing. Mr. and Mrs. JOE a\TAL.VNI and Mr, and Mrs, JACK BURKE announce the addition of bouncing bovs. 
—BILL DEMPSEY, Seo". 

LOS ANGELES—Officers and friends of the L.A. Club attending fall Sports Dinner at the Pabst establishment: {left to right) Director Steve Finan, President George Meeker, Vice-President Ed Sheehan (seated), Brother Carlos Dolan, C.S.C., and Secretary Gene Calhoun. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 31 
Rome 
Top news item for lliis issue is llic rosier of the first set of Club ofHccrs to be elected in Rome: JERRY ASHLEY, 'SS. President; GEORGE GLEA­SON, '37. \nce-Prcsidcm; VIN'CE McALOON, *34, Secretary-Treasurer; FATHER EDWARD L. HES­TOX, C^.C-, Chaplain. These officers were pub­licly installed at the annual Communion Day, December 8. The election took place on the Xamc-Day of FATHER SORIN {and of Father Heston), Feast of St. Edward, October 21. 
Added to our some forty members are new ar­rivals: JOE DEVIXE, '56 (Graduate School), now teaching in Xaples; more Holy Cross seminarians from the U> S.; and at X'otre Dame International School, newlv arrived Brothers of Holy Cross, ETIEXXE COOPER and PHILIP DI PACE. A virtual X.D, almnnus (St. Ed's, Tc\as '56), JOE PIETROSAXTE, brother of fuUbacker, XICK. Our loss, FATHER ZI.MMERM.\X, C.S.C., who is off for India-
Before PROFESSOR PAUL BOSCO left Rome for X*. D., we gathered for a bit of a sendofT party for Paul and his new bride from Bologna, Italy. Wc trust that they arc comfortably set up in South Bend; and here's greeting to both of you from Rome. 
The X'. D. parade to and through Rome since smnmer's end reads: FATHER HESBURGH and Mr. FRAXK FOLSOM, en route from Vienna; FATHER PHILIP SCHAERF, C^.C , en route from Lourdcs; GEORGE "KIM" HEWSON, *55; TO.M SUTHERLAND. '55; BILL BRISICK, *56 (and his sister); FRAXKLIX FOXTE, '55, together with DOXALD PIZZETELLO, '55; BOB Mc-GRATH, '55; CHARLES SPRIXKEL, '56; DAVID 
S. McCAFFERY and wife, '33, (ifrs. McCalTcry's three brothers arc X. D. men); MICHAEL ADRIAX, '25; ALBERT, '27, '39; SYL\^ESTER THEISEX, (Graduate School), '49. X. D. "Ladies" who have made themselves kno%%-n here: Sister Agnes Patrice, CSJ, sister of JIM SHEEHAN, '50; Alice Mueller, daughter of ALFRED MUEL­LER, *27. Along with her was Carol Hartman of St. Mary's, '54 and is a friend of ED DEXX, '53. To all readers: You and yours are welcome to Rome. 
We were glued to radios here during the current football season. Wc got off our letter of encourage­

ment to TERRY BREXX.AX and the team and 
received a very cordial letter in return; besides 
cheering from here wc also specialize in remember­
ing the team in Rome's four hundred cliurches! 
Came the Oklahoma game, wc burned Roman candles and the midnight oil at Ashley's house. Came the viclor>', Jerr\* launclied a trans-Atlantic call to X'orman. Okla., to express how the Roman Irish felt. Missing Terry and the team by an hour, Wc turned our guns on the family of JOE and XICK PIETROSAXTE in Ansonia. Conn. .\ thrilling and noisy conversation was enjoyed by all and the Pietrosantes were given the commission to call Xick at X'otre Dame to convcj- our overflowing spirits to Terry and team. 
Tying in this traditional Xotrc Dame *'miraclc" with a recent UP dispatch on the death of 104­year-old Irish rooter, Mrs. Margaret F. Abbott, in Watervillc, Maine, wc not only decided that Grandma Abbott had something to do — in Heaven 
— with this big win, but a letter was sent to her family informing them that the Rome X'. D. Club has arranged a Memorial Mass in St. Peter's Basilica. 
St. Joseph Valley 
JACK POWERS and JIM KELLEHER have been appointed to the board of directors of the Club. 
Early in September the officers of the Club wel­comed the sdiolarship winners to the Notre Dame campus. Tliey were: James BIn:in~cr, his brother, Thomas P. Bintinger, Joseph Jcziorski, Paul Manion, Keith L. Williams, Stephen Piacsek, DaWd Fixler and Michael Laiiglilin. 
The Club again sponsored the Quarterback Club through a successful season. Five Monday noon meetings were held and nationally known sports people as speakers made the meetings most inter­esting. JOE BOLfVND was the permanent toast­master, and did his usually fine job. BILL EARLEY was chairman of the events. 
A new event, a Corporate Communion Mass was held at Sacred Heart Church on December 8. A small reception in the Drill Hall was held after the Mass. JACK MILES served as general chair­
—R. A. GOEPFRICH, Secy. 

St. Louis 
Saturday, October 26, found a group of some 90 St. Louis Xotrc Dame fans in the stands at South Bend clicering the Irish on to victory over Pittsburgh. The success ol this year's annual foot­ball trip is the result of the efforts of committee Chairman GEORGE COX\ % Co-Chairman DON DOHEX*Y and their committee members. Proceeds from the annual trip are used to finance the St. Louis Club's University sdiolarship. At present five students are enrolled at the University under the program. 
Our general fall meeting was held Xovember 14 at the Hospitalitv House of Griesedieck Bros. Brewer^*, courtesy of ED, BILL and BOB GRIESEDIECK. Arrangements for the affair were handled by STEDE GEORGE and DICK HUCK. Our honored guest for the evening was PROF. J.AMES A. RE\'X*IERS, who outlined llic activities of the Lobund. 
Our annual family Communion Breakfast was held on Sunday, December 8, this year. Some 100 people attended the Mass and Communion Break­fast. FATHER THOMAS O'DOXXELL spoke to the gathering about the Universitv's Foundation Program. NORM -MUELLER and JIM CL.\RK headed the committee in charge of this year's event. 
On December 11 the Club's officers, board of directors and members of the scholarship committee met with FATHER RICH^\RD MURPHY, Director of Admissions. Following a dinner the group dis­cussed the Univcrsit>-'s admission program and the club's scholarship program. 
Prior to Father Murphy's arrival the St. Louis Club had taken an active part in local College Day programs at various high schools around the metro­politan St. Louis area. HANK DAHM stepped into the job of handling details of the Club's partidpar tion in the programs when MAL DOOLEY \'acated the post due to his recent transfer to Detroit (Detroit Club please note—he's a good worker). Otliers taking part by representing the University at the \-arious high scliools were BOB CHICKEY, FRED WEBER, DON RATCHFORD, TOM Mc-GUIRE, and JOHN HIGGINS. 
Any alumni passing through St. Louis on the second Monday of the month arc again reminded of our regular monthly luncheons held at the Key 
BLACK HILL5—^The cIuVs Communion Breakfast was held at St. Ambrose, Deadwood, South Dakota, with the following guests m at­tendance: (front row, seated) Bernard Gira; club chaplain Msgr, Sobolcwski; and Very Rev, Michael Thompson; (second row) Robert Romaker, Charles Donnelly, Henry Frawley, Sr., and Walt Williamson; (third row) Paul Acrop, Carl Eilers and Bob Camahan. 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
Club of the Horel SIicraion-JcfTerson. Drop in and join us. —DOAN RATCHFORD , '50, Scc>',-Trcas. 


South Carolina 
xVt the meeting held In Columbia, S. C , on Dec, 1, 1957, after the club's annual Communion Mass, the following members were elected officers for tlic coming year: 
President, BILL DUXILVNf of Greenville; Vice-President, LEO MAHONEY of Columbia; Treasurer, TEREXCE McMxVNUS of Sullivan's Island; Secre­tary-, BILL GWIXX of Orangeburg. 
Past President GEORGE MCKOLS of Florence was unanimously given a vote of thanks for his successful establishment of the Club in South Carolina. A good time was had by all present. Evcr>'one is confident, that under the guidance of our newly elected President, BILL DUNHAM of Greenville, the Club will continue to grow. 
—J. J. CONDON 

Southern Cook County 
The November 16 Fall Party turned out to be a victory party lo celebrate the triumph of the team over Oklahoma. The party was held in Chicago Heights at the Marcliegiana Society Hall with free food and drinks for all in attendance. 
Vice-President BEN D.\.MIANI represented the University recently at Bloom Township High School when they had their annual College Day. Ben talked with and answered questions for ibe student body concerning the University of Notre Dame. 
December 8 was the date of our annual Universal Notre Dame Communion. The event took place at St. Ireaneus Churcli in Park Forest, with break­fast following. FATHER HALEY from the Uni­versity was present as a guest of the Club. 
FATHER ELMER COOGAN, Pastor of St. Ireaneus Church in Park Forest, has honored us by agreeing to spiritually guide us as our chaplain for the current Club year. 
Congratulations to LOIS and BEN DAMIANl on the birth of their first son on October 24. Also to ELLIE and TONY PERRY on the birth of their first daughter on November 27. 
—TONY PERRY, '54, Secj-. 
Toledo 
The Notre Dame Club of Toledo opened its fall session with a Kickoff Party for incoming freshmen to the University and their fathers in the Toledo area together with returning students. A wonderful turnout and a grand time was had by all those in the large attendance. 
It was our privilege to honor FATHER JOHN J. CW.iNAUGH as speaker at a luncheon at the Hillcrcst Hotel September 27. His subject: Alumni Contribution to the 15th Annual .Alumni Fund. A fine and inspiring talk on the needs of the University and disposition of the money contributed. \Vc were pleased to know that the alumni of the Toledo area are doing their share. 
Two successful football trips were sponsored by the Club, one to the Na\y game at Notre Dame by bus, the other to East Lansing for the Michigan State game by railroad. A splendid job was done by TERRY O'LOUGHLIN and BUD MALONE and their committee. Financially these two foot­ball trips were a success even though the scores were nut all that we alumni wished and prayed they would be. 
At our December 2 meeting, plans were made for our annual Christmas Dance, held this year at the Toledo Club, Friday, December 27. Tliese dances in the past years had always proved to be a great success. This year, stress was placed for more alumni participation in this affair. 
—JACK BECKHAM, '50, Secy. 


Washington. D. C. 
October 16 the Club borrowed a color TV set from FuUord's Colony House lof a liastily organ­ized parly to watch the great Oklahoma \*ictor\*. It took place in the Lounge Riviera of the Hotel 2400, and a representative crowd enjoyed the con­test and free refreshments. 
DR. JOHN D. PORTERFIELD, '34, Deputy 

Two of the three top awards presented to the nation^s outstanding industrial designers at the 7th Annual Industrial Designers Institute -were to Virgil M. Exner, '30, and Arthur N. BecVar, '33. Virgil is director of styling for the Chrysler Corporation and Art is Genera] Electric's designer for the Kitchen Center. The awards were received by: (left to right) Carl W. Sundberg for his design of the IBM RAMAC Computer; Exner; and BecVar. 
Sargeon General of the Public Health Service, was the speaker at the November 18 general meeting. 
BISHOP PHILIP M. H.VNNxVN, of the Arch­diocese of Washington, and FATHER JAMES CONROY, assistant editor of the Sunday Visitor, were guest speakers, and Bishop ilannan the cele­brant at the Mass and Communion Breakfast, Sunday. December 8. at Holy Cross College. 
The Notre Dame Dance was held at St. Bernard's Cr>'slal Room in Riverdalc. Md. 

Western Washington 
On ?Covcmbcr 19, 1557, the Notre Dame Club of "Western Washington held its first fall meeting since the enjov-able luncheon wc had with JIM ARMSTRONG last summer. Those in attendance tvere DR. CL.-\RE SHANNON, R. G. HENNES, VINCENT H. STRECKER, GEORGE BRITTEN, ED BROWN, Ed's guest DOC DOUGHERTY, GEORGE C. STARBUCK, PAUL R. BE.\UDOIN, HARRY ABEL, PHIL HOSTERMAN, EDWARD 
M. TOBIN, Washington State Senator PATRICK 
D. SUTHERLr\ND, JOSEPH G. LOTTA, STEPHEN B. ROBEL, C. F. OSBORNE, JJURT HALL, REV. PHILIP H. DUFFY, and vours trulv. BEN LENOUE. BILL O'MARA was the principal speaker, and he gave a great talk and tribute to the Notre Dame spirit. 
On Sunday, December I, our Club held its first Universal Notre Dame Communion Dinner. JOSEPH G. LOTTA and JOHN P. DUPLICV are co-chairmen of this unique occasion. We were able to obtain a much better turnout for the Communion, because there were fewer baby-sitting problems by receiving Communion at the evening Mass. 
On Dec. II, 1957, CHARLES OSBORNE, FATHER PHILIP DUFFY, and I, together with other Notre Dame men accepted the inWtation of Blanchet High School to present the great attrac­tions offered by Notre Dame at Blanchet's first College Night program. We hope to develop this 
program to the extent that we an present it to all the Catholic schools here in the Northwest. 
—BERNARD J. LENOUE, P.w. 


Wilkes-Barre 
Tile Club, at a recent mccling, named new ofHcers for the coming vear; .Attorney RxWMOND 
J. SOBOTA, President^ MAURICE J. REG.VN, M.D.. Vice-President; NED ROWAN, Sccretan.-; and GILBERT PERRY, Treasurer. 
Tlie Wilkes-Barre Alumni Club meets at a lancheon meeting on the first Tuesday of ever>* month at 12:15 P.M. in ilic ^dz'.n Dining Room o: the Hotel S:erling. corner of West Market and North River Streets, Wil'ue-. Barrc, Peon. Any and all alumni visiting Wilke:;-Barrc on this par­ticular Tuesday arc cordially Invited to attend the luncheon. 
—R.\Y.MOND J. SOBOTA, Pres. 


Williomsport 
>.rcmbcr5 of the Willianisport Notre Dame Club held a party for JOHN B. WILLMAN.N, secre­tar\* and treasurer of the Club, at Rice's. Mr. Willmaan. state editor at Grit Publishing Co., is leaving the city to become an assbtant city editor with the AVashingion Post and TlmcJ-Herald. 
FRiVNK C. HAYES was chairman of the event. \VILLL\.M DOWNS, of Jersc>- Shore, was toast­master, and words of tribute were given by JOSEPH ORSO, JR., who was selected to succeed Mr. Willmann as club officer. Also participating in th; program was RICHARD LUNDY, MRS. JOHN B. WILLMANN and his parents, MR. and MRS. ALBERT WILLMANN, were guests. 
Members of the Club presented Mr. Willmann with two gifts. —JOSEPH F. ORSO, JR., Sccy.-Treas. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 33 
Engagements 

Miss Lorctta E. Kellv and JOHN J. GAVENDA, •53. iliss Barbara Ann Taylor and DOUGLAS J. KIRK, '53. -Miss Sallv F. Hcvscr and ENS. TIMOTHY F. MURPHY, JR., '5B. Miss Lourdcnc Lurctic Becker and ENS. TKOM.\S W. HALEY, '57. -Miss Theresa Pauline Gallas and D.U'ID M. McGINNIS, '57. 
Births 

Mr. and -Mrs. AVILLIAM J. KENNEY, '34, a daugliltr, Maureen Ellen, September 17. Mr. and -Mrs. JAMES J. SHERRY, JR., '36, a daughter, Sarali Louise, September 11. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT C. WEjWER, '37, a daughter, Thercsc Lvnn, November 10­Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. L,\CEY, '38, a son, John, August 31. Mr. and -Mrs. H.\ROLD A. WILLIAMS, JR., '33, a daughter, Julie Car>-. November 15. Mr. and Mrs. THO.MASP. WALL, JR., '40, a daughter, Brigid Louise. December 13. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT DOWD, '41, a son, Thomas Francis, December 5, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. ERVIN A. STEFANIK, '41, a daughter, Maura Katherine, November 1. Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN S. S0CH.\LSK1, '44, a son, Edwin Michael, September 29. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH H. DrTTRICH, '47, twins. Mari Ellen and James Alan, September 28. Mr! and Mrs. FR,\NCIS GIORD.-VNO, '47, a son, Francis .Anthony, Jr., October 19, -Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN M. HE.\RY, '47, a son, Michael Francis, October 10. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD E. O'CONNELL, JR., '48. a daughter, Michele Ann, August 22. .\Ir. and Mrs. JAMES F. WELTER, '48, a daughter, Judith Ann, December 19. Mr. and Mrs. CH.\RLES C. CARTER, '49, a daughter. Constance Thercsc, September 15. .Mr. and Mrs. GER^VLD J. CORRIG.AN, '49, a daughter, Sharon Marie, December 2. Mr. and -Mrs. FR,\NK B. GWYNN, '49, a daughter, Mary Elizabeth, September 17. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. KESSING, JR., '49, a son. Robert Leo III, November 19. .Mr. and -Mrs. JESSE B. POSTO.V, '49, a daugh­ter. Donna Marie. Mav 31. ^'r. and Mrs. EDWARD D. SI.M.MONS, '49, a daughter, Marie Theresa. November 12. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. BRADLEY, '50, a son. John Patrick. June 5. Mr. and .Mrs. JAMES J. JE.VNE\\'EIN, '50, a son. August Harvev. October 7. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. McHALE, '50, a son, Brian Kennedy, August 25. Mr. and .Mrs. P.ATRICK O'CONNOR, '50, a son, Martin \^ncent, July 8. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM T. a\REY, '51. a son, Joseph Kuhn, December 7. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS W. CARROLL, '31, a son. Charles James, December 27. Mr. and Mrs. MATTHEW B. O'DONNELL, '51, a daughter. Kathleen Mar\'. November 18. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H. BRE.VNAN, '52, a daughter, Mar>' Helen, September 24. Mr. and Mrs. FRjWCCIS X. DRISCOLL, '32. a daughter, Anne Mary, July 28. Mr. and .Mrs. JOH.N F. .ME^VNEY, '52, a .son, Thomas Gerard. August 27. Mr. and Mrs. WTLLI.AM E. MILLER, '52, a daughter, Carolvn Jo. April 19. Mr. and Mrs. HOR;\CE P. WOOD, '52, a daugh­ter. June 7. Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY J. ZAMBROSKI, '52, a daughter. Lauren Rac, Febmarv' 6. Mr. and -Mrs. JOHN J, McCORMICK, JR., '53, a son, John Gerard, July 28. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. BINCKLEY, '54, a son, Joseph Midiael, August 11. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES M. CORCORAN, '54, a son, John Kevin, December 24. Mr. and Mrs. JA.MES F. KELLEHER, '54, a daughter, Maureen, December 27. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. R03SHIRT, '54, a son, John Leo, Jr., December 14. -Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY J. TRIGLANl, '54, a daughter, Mar\- Yolanda, October 23. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. CASEY, '55, a daughter, Maureen Anne, in Julv. Lt. and .Mrs. JOSEPH W. FONTANA, '55, a son. Michael Joseph, September 12. .Mr. and .Mrs. RICHARD T. McCOR.MICK, 5."). a son, James N.. October 23. Mr. and Mri. JOHN P. .McSH.ANE, '53. a daughter, Bridget Elizabeth, November 19. Mr. ar.d Mrs. P.WL RENSTROM, '36, a son, Paul, Jr., July 30. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN RONAN, '55, a son, John Dailcy, September 10. Mr. and -Mrs. WILLIAM K. WARREN, '56, a son, Stephen Kelly, November 28. -Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT E. .MILLER, '57, a daughter. Melody Anne, September 8. 
Marriages 

Miss Harriet M. Bobbs and JOHN F. MAHER, '47, San Diego, Calil., December 27. Miss Margaret Eleanor Dickinson and WILLIAM 
L. ^\'HrrELY, '48. Port Washington, N. Y., October 5. Miss Agnes Ruth Watson and DONALD C. LUECK, '50, Washington, D. C, October 5. 
Miss Marijane Lambert and EDWARD B. KEARNEY, JR., '51, Eronxville, N. Y., October 26. 
Miss Mar>- Ann Geiger and JAMES E. MA­HONEY, '51, Elyria, Ohio, November 9. 
Miss Corinne Ann Nowinski and GEORGE T. PATTON, '51, South Bend, Ind., November 28. Miss Patricia Irene Byrne and J.\MES B. POW­
ERS, '52, Nevv York, N. Y., February 8. Miss Margaret Gocpfrich and LEO ZMUDZIN­SKI, '52. South Bend, Ind., August 3. Miss Barbara Trippel and EDWARD T. MC­CARTHY, '53, Mishauaka, Ind., September 14. 
Miss Barbara Joan Taccctta and FRANCIS R. SANTANGELO, '53, Teaneck, N. J.. September 7. Miss Nina Del Missier. and FRANKLIN D. CA­
PITANINI, '54. Chicago, III., October 5. Miss Loretta Marie White and WILLIAM J. GUILFOILE, '54, Brooklyn, N. Y., November 9. Miss Christina Dorothy Covlc and THO-MAS R. O'CONNELL, '54, Short Hills, .N. J. Miss Connie Carole Connors and ROSS E. SIM­-MO.NS, JR., '54, St. Joseph, Mich.. lantiari- 11. Miss Joyce Mae Reading and JAMES E. tOTH , '54. South Bend. Ind., August 31. Miss Nancy Elizabeth Ellsworth and EDWARD J. WALSH, '54. Tarrytown. N. Y., November 2. 
Miss Ann Cecilia Robinson and JOHN T. COONEY, '53, North Tarrvtown, N. Y., Jannan-, 1958. 
Miss Barbara Ann Turk and NORBERT J. GASSENSMITH, '55, South Bend. Ind., in Sep­tember. 
Miss Elizabeth Joan Frederick and NEIL N. NABER, '55, St. Francis, Wise, September 28. Miss Judith Barbara Olson and RICHARD H. PADON, '35, Notre Dame, Ind., October 12. Miss Linda M. Learnard and ENS. FREDERICK 
C. WHITFIELD, '35, Washington, D. C , in De­cember. Miss Myrna Marie Rivard and LT. PAUL T. 
DENK, '56, South Bend, Ind., October 12. Miss Nancy Margaret DcWachtcr and DAVID 
J. POST, '36, South Bend, Ind., October 19. Miss Peggy Jean Zoeller and JOHN D. STET­TLER, '56, Notre Dame, Ind., September 4. Miss Mary Ellen Quinn and ROBERT L. BUNDSCHUH, '57, Scarsdalc, N. Y., September 28. Miss Patricia Kav Hargreaves and EDWARD M. 
IIEv\LY, '57, Ft. Lewis, Wash., December 27. Miss Joan Magda Barkerding and LAWRENCE 
H. HENNESSEY, '57, New Orleans, La., January 
4. Miss Elinor Kathleen Thuriin and LT. EDWARD 
F. KEENAN, JR., '57, BronxvUle, N. Y., Novem­ber 30. Miss Joan Mary Hartmann and VICTOR F. POTOCHNY, '57, South Bend, Ind., October 26. 
Miss Marih-n Coddens and ALBERT C. REI­CHERT. '57, Notre Dame, Ind., in September. 
Miss Gail Cecilia Herrmann and ROBERT C. 
SEELMAN , JR. , '57, Amarillo, Texas, December 
28. 
Miss Barbara Margaret Frcdiund and NORMAN 
R. WENDROWSKI, '57, .Votrc Dame, Ind., Sep­tember 21. 
Sympathy 

GEORGE J. .MEtVD, '27, on the death of his 
mother, November 27. 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, '28, on the death of his 
father, December 20. 
ROBERT J. RUPPE, '31, on the death of hU 
wife, November 16. 
ALFRED C. STEPAN, JR., '31, on the death of 
his father, October 22. 
EDWARD J. O'BRIEN, JR., '34, on the death 
of his father, October 11. 
HAROLD J. DRUECKER, '37, on the death of 
his sister, October 14. 
FRANCIS P., '37, and JOHN P. .MEYER, '42, 
on the death of their mother, October 4. 
FRANCIS J., '39, JOHN H., '47, and REV. 
ANTHONY J. LAUCK, C.S.C., '42 on the death 
of their father. 
DAVID T. MESKILL, JR., '39, on the death of his father in November. ROBERT M. REILLY, '39, on the death of his father, December 9. THO.MAS BERGIN, '45, on the death of his mother, October 6. FRANK E. McBRIDE, JR., '50, on the death of his mother, November 20. PATRICK FLE.MING, '52, on the death of hU father in September. /WCDREW, JR., '56, and THEODORE LUM, '56, on the death of their father, December 19. ROBERT PLEUSS, *57, on the death of his father. 
Deaths 

JAMES A. JUDIE, SR., '87, South Bend realtor, believed to be one of the oldest, if not the oldest, of Notre Dame Law School graduates, died Decem­ber 10, 1957, after a brief illness. He had been in the real estate business in South Bend for nearly 70 years and owned extensive commercial holdings, especially in the business district. Previously Mr. Judie had been a teacher, a practicing lau->-cr and an assistant professor of law at Notre Dame. His widow sur\ives, as do a son and daughter, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. 
RT. REV. MSGR. JOHN J. KE.\RNS, '92, founder and pastor for 41 years of St. Theodore's Church, Chicago, III., died December 9, 1957, in the rectory of his church. A native of Ireland, Msgr. Kcams studied for the priesthood at St. Mary's Scminar>- :n Baltimore and was ordained j 59 years ago in Holy Name Cathedral, Chicago. 
REV. HENRY M. KE.\(PER, '03, Kcrrvillc, Texas, died October 9 in Santa Rosa Hospital, San Antonio, after a long illness. Recipient of Bachelor's and Master's degrees from Notre Dame, Father Kemper completed his studies at the North Ameri­can College In Rome. Soon after his ordination in 1910 in tlie Archdiocese of Chicago he went to Texas for his health. Wiile there he volunteered to become pastor of a small mission church in Ker7\-ille, out of whicli grew Our Lady of Guadalupe Church and School and the Notre Dame Institute. He was renowned as a scholar, philanthropist and newspaper columnbt. 
JOHN F. BERTELING, -08, of Orange, Calif., died November 27, 1957, after a ten-year illness. Mr. Bertcling was a monogram athlete at Notre Dame. Long a resident of Canada in tlie mining i business, he returned to the U. S. in 1942 to work for the War Production Board. His father. Dr. John Bernard Berteltng, was in the Notre Dame Class of 1880. Among the sur\'t\-ors are hts i widow and a son, Lieut. Col. John B. Berteling, '38, stationed at the Pentagon, Washington, D. C. 
THO.MAS J. McGRATH, '10, distinguished Wash­ington labor Iau->-cr and spokesman for the American coal industry, died of a heart ailment October 10 in Montgomery County, Mar>iand. Mr. McGrath , practiced extensively before the Federal Power Commission, representing the National Coal Associ­ation, Anthracite Institute, United Mine Workers and Fuels Research Council, Inc., among other clients. He had scr\'ed as general counsel to the < Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen and earlier as a member of the^Minnesota Legislature, where l.e had sponsored one of the first state workmen's compensation laws. He ^^'as In law practice with his sons John A., *48, and Jerome. He is survived by his widow, three sons and two daughters. 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
JOSEPH F. DONAHUE, '12, South Bend busi­ness executive, avic leader and University advisor, died January-6, 1958, in his home after a long illness. He was a member of Notre Dame's Presi­dent's Council and an Alumni member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees since 1952. In the lumber and building materials business since 19M, he had been president and, since 1952, chair­man of the board of General Building Materials, Inc., and its subsidiaries, Great Lakes Distributing Corp. and the South Bend Box Co. He was a director of the National Bank & Trust Co. and board chairman of South Bend Federal Savings & Loan Assn. He was also the organizer, in 1916, of the South Bend Koofing Co. and the author of several revolutionary building trades de­velopments. Recipient of the 1953 Brotherhood Award of the South Bend- Mishawaka Round Table, National Conference of Christians and Jews, Mr. Donahue was very active in community affairs. He was a director of St. Joseph Hospital and the St. Joseph County Cancer Soa'cty, a fund raiser and worker in many capacities for the South Bend Community Chest and the United Fund of St. Joscpli County, Sur\'ivins are his wido^v* and two daughters. 

FERN.\NDO L. MENDEZ, SR., '12, Cincinnati. Ohio, died in October, 1957. He was a Colombian consul to the United States and tlie founder of the Midwest International Trade House in Cincinnati. Born in Cartagena, Colombia, lie came to the United States in 1908 and was in the automobile business in South Bend before launching his inter­national trade venture. Mr. Mendcz attended the 45th reunion of his class last June. He is survived by his mdow and five children. 
H/IRRY M. NEVVTilNG, '14, died October 7, 1957, in Mt. Alto Veterans' Hospital, Washington, 

D. C-, after about a years' illness. He had previ­ously made his home in ircxico City, where he was engaged In the tobacco business for many years. He was interred in Arlington Cemetery. 
GEORGE J. REGx\N, '14, died recently, ac­cording to information received through the Sports Publtdty Department. 
FRANCIS MICHAEL aVRMODY, '15, inde­pendent oil operator and a long-time resident of Shrevcport, La,, died October 14, 1957, after a short illness. He was a monogram athlete in football and baseball and a teammate of Knute Rocknc as an undergraduate. After graduation he played baseball in the Texas League and, as an inficlder, with the Pittsburgh Pirates. Mr. Carmody is survived by his widow, t^s'o brothers, Arthur R., '15, and Frederick E., '32, and two sisters. A third brother, James E., '23, is deceased. 
ALOYSIUS W. HOSINSKI, '16, died January- 2, 1958, in his home north of South Bend after suf­fering a heart attack. He was formerly U. S. marshal for Northern Indiana for 16 years. PreW­ously he had been elected South Bend city judge and had run successfully for Portage Township justice of the peace on both the Republican and Democratic tickets. He had operated a motel for 21 years. Sur\-iving are his widoiv, t^vo sons, five grandchildren and a Srother, Brother Peter Claver Hosinski, C.S.C., at the Notre Dame Infirmary. 
RALPH E. TREANOR, '16, former chief deputy treasurer of St. Joseph County, died in his South Bend home Oct. 10, 1957, after a long illness. Scion of a pioneer South Bend family, Mr. Treanor 5er\Td in the treasurer's oifice for 14 years. For eight of those years he was chief deputy. During World War II he was instnmiental in the establish­ment of the Kingsbur>' Ordnance Plant in LaPorte, Ind. Survivors include the widow, two daughters, two grandchildren, a brother and a half-brother. 
JAMES I. BOLAND, '17, South Bend, Ind., died November 23, 1957, according to word received in the Alumni Office. His wife survives. 
JOSEPH J. FELDOTT. '18, Aurora, 111., died November 3, 1956, according to information just received in the Alumni Office. 
GEORGE A. SCHOCK, '18. former mayor of South Bend, Ind., died November 27, 1957, after a lingering illness. He had retired from politics and returned to the practice of law after being defeated for re-election as mayor in 1951. Previously he had been city judge, assistant prosecutor and president of the South Bend board of public works. He had also served as Democratic county chairman and secretary of his congressional district's organ­ization. He had been a reporter and editor with the South Bend Tribune and Ncws-Tlmts and the Rocky Mountain News. Son of pioneer South Bend residents, he was employed at various times with local theaters, railroads and other industries. Sur­vivors include the widow, a daughter, six grand­children and two sisters. 
ROCKFORD—^Terry Brennan ^vas guest of honor at ttc Rockford Club's "Irish Swecpsteak" golf outing this past summer. Others in the photo are Bob Doyle (left) and Lea Condon, co-chairmen of the affair. 
CHtVRLES R. LENNANE, '19, former Detroit businessman, died November 28, 1957, in ^(onroc, Michigan. He was vice-president of Lennane In­vestment Corp., a property development firm on Lake H~-.^on at Port Sanilac, Mich. As a general contractor, in assodation \viih his father and as vice-president of the Lennane Co., he had been instrumental in the construction of the Detroit sewer system, various schools, buildings, bridges and highways. He was descended from a pioneer Detroit family. Surviving are his widow, three daughters and two brothers. 
MICHAEL J. SCANLON, '21, Dayton, Ohio, tax consultant, died Sept. 5, 1957. Surviv-ors in­clude his iWdow, who resides at 1410 Grand Ave., Dayton, Ohio, and a son attending medical school in Cincinnati. 
EDWARD D. KELLY, '23, Emmeisburg, Iowa, attorney, died of a heart attack Sunday, Dec 15, 1957. He is survived by his widow, his mother, two sons, a daughter, two brotliers and Uvo sisters. 
KiVRL J. BARR, '23, of Salem, Ore., died October 24, 1957, according to word received in the Alumni Office. His widow and three children survive. 
JOHN F. CONNELL, '23, Denver, Colo., archi­tect, died November 10, 1957. He had practiced architecture in Denver since moving there in 1940. Previously he had been a resident of South Bend. He is survived by his widow, five children, a brother and three sisters. 
JOHN T. FOGARTY, '23, American businessman in Panama City, died November 18, 1957, ap­parently of a heart attack. He had been a sales representative for American industries in Central and South iVmerica for 30 years. Originally sent to Panama as a representative of General ifotors, he was later named chief of sales for Willard batteries in Mexico, Central and South American countries. A native of Anderson, Ind., he had made his home in Panama for many years. Surviv­ing arc the widow, four children and two brothers. The Notre Dame Club of Panama sponsored a Requiem Mass Dec 2, 1957, in the Santuario Nacional, celebrated by Rev. Mark McGrath, C.S.C., of Notre Dame. 
REV. CASIAfIR J. \VITUCKI, C.S.C.. '23, pastor of St. Casimir's Church, South Bend, died November 7, 1957. A former pastor ^ of St. Hedmdgc's Church, youth leader and athletic direc­tor of South Bend Catholic High School, Father Witucki celebrated his 25th anniversary in the priesthood in 1952. 
RICHARD J. REYNOLDS, JR., '23, died on Dec. 15, 1957, from a heart attack according to information received by the Alumni OfBce. His address was in New York Cit>-. 
THOMAS F. NtAHER, '25, Detroit drcuit judge, died Dec. 28, 1957, in his home following a long illness. 
FRANK J. MCCARTHY, '25, vice-president of the Pennsylvania Railroad, died September 3Q in Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, D. C. In charge of the Pennsylvania's legal department since 1955, he had joined the railroad company as a special assistant in 1945, having previously served as passenger representative of the New York Central S>-stem and chairman of the Associated Railwa>-5 of Indiana. Before going to Washington in 1^5 he was active in Indianapolis Club activ­ities and Hoosier politics, and in his student days he was business manager of the Juggler, campus humor magazine of the t^venties. He is survived by his widow, nine children, his mother and a sister. 
RT. REV. MSGR. WILLIAM D. GREEN, '26, Dubuque, Iowa, died November 16, 1957, of a heart attack. He was editor-in-chief of The ^Vitncss, official newspaper of the Archdiocese of Dubuque, and pastor of St. Philomena's Church, Asbury, Iowa, Born of a newspaper family, Msgr. Green vtros news editor of the Dubuque Telegraph-Herald before ids ordination in 1930. Thereafter he was on the stxtff of The Wtness and was named editor in 1951. He was on the faculty of Loras College, Dubuque, for 21 years, interrupted only by post-graduate work at Columbia University. Elevated to domestic prelate in 1952, Msgr. Green has been known for many years as a distinguished scholar and apologist. His mother surwves. 
JOHN Q. CAREY, '27, judge of the Common Pleas Court and former mayor of Toledo, Ohio, died January 6. He played football at Notre Dame and after a knee injury- continued as an assistant to Knute Rocknc. He was elected to the Ohio legislature when he was 27, serving on several im­portant committees. Later he was elected to the Toledo city coimdl and, at 30, became vice mayor. In 1940, when he was 34, he was elected mayor erf Toledo, the yotmgcst man to fill that office in the city's history. In 1W2 he was elected as a non­partisan to fill an tmexpired term on the Common Pleas Court bench, vfas re-elected in 1944, 1950 and 1956. Judge Carey had been active in Demo* cratic campaigns and had serv*ed with public utilities and the Port of Toledo Authority. He is survived 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 35 
by his widow, a son and daughter, a brother and two sisters. 
JOHN M. PATTOX, '27, prcsldcm of the Mitchell National Bank, Mitchell, South Dakota, died suddenly September 8, 1957, following a heart attack brought on by influenza. He •*\"as very active in state and national banking circles and business associations. He was president ot the South Dakota Bankers Association and the Mitchell Chamber of Commerce. His widow sur\^ves as do a son and two daughters. 
RALPH M. DeGR.-\FF, '27, South Bend, Ind., difd October 4, 1957, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. 
GEORGE F, COVERT, JR., '28, o! Toledo, Ohio, died September 19^ 1957. A lifelong resident of Toledo, he Iiad operated an athletic equipment company for many years in partnership with his father, George F. Covert, ST., '93. Sur\iving arc his lather and two sisters. 
REV. BROTHER CORNELIUS G. ifacNLAHOX, '28, of the Christian Brothers of Ireland, died October 30, 1957, at St. Gabriel's Junior College, Lakewood, X. J. lie celebrated the golden jubilee of his entrance into the order in 1954. A tcadier of English, Latin and education, he had taught all over the U. S. and had been prindpal of- St. Joseph's Junioraie and St. Gabriel's Scliolasticate, West Park, X. Y. A brother sur%'ivcs. 
FATHER CHARLES DUDLXE, O.S.B., M.A., '29, of Fulda, Ind., died May 16, 1957, in St. Joseph Infirmary-, Louisville, Ky., according to in­formation just received in the Alumni Office. Sur­xiwng arc a brother and sister, Rt. Rev. John X. Dudinc and Sister M. Fredcrica Dudine, O.S.B., '26. 
SISTER M. PRESEXT.VTIOX GERITY, H.H.M., *29, died recently, according to information received in ihc .Mumni Office. At the time of her death $hc was assigned to Villa Maria Convent, \'illa Maria. 
Pa. 
JOHN G. KOEHL, '31, died October 16, 1957, according to information received in the Alumni Office. He leaves a xridow residing at 4203 Lillic, Fort \Va\-ne, Ind. 
CH.\RLES S. WELLS, '31, Xashvjlle, Tenn., died recently according to word received in the Alumni Office. He is sur\'ived by his widow and t^vo sons. 
HERBERT C. GOCKE, '32, Los Angeles, CaliL, died Sept. 29, 1957, according to information re­ceived in the Alumni Office. His widow resides at 3987 Hepburn .Avenue, Lw Angeles. 
RAYMO.VD G. REUL.\ND, '33, of Sheboygan, Wis., was killed in an auto accident on September 18, 1957, while traveling in Iowa. He had been associated for many years with the Pure Oil Com­pany. His widow survives. 
THO.\LVS AL McL/\UGHLIX, '33, Cleveland food broker, was killed along with his ^vifc in an airplane crash in Penns>-K-ania October 6, 1957. He was the senior partner of the T. M. McLaughlin Co., ha\ing founded the brokerage business 15 years ago. Tliey leave a son in high scliool. 
FRAXCIS STURLA CAXALE, '35, Memphis businessman and Notre Dame athlete of the thirties, died of ;: heart attack Xovember II, 1957. He was owner and founder of F. S. Canalc Produce Co. and president of Sturla Building Corporation. One of his former positions had been with D. Canalc & Co., founded by his late grandfather. Sturla was varsity end for Notre Dame In 1933-34, and was named the best blocker of 1930 spring practice by Knute Rocknc shortly before the coach's death. He coached prep school football after graduation. He w:xs active In the Scrra Club and Knights of Columbus. rVmong the survivors are his widow, a son, four brothers and a sister. 
ROBERT J. BRUZEK, '38, died In February-, 1957, according to word just received in the Alumni Office. 
THOMAS ^L GORNL\X, '38, Oak Park, 111., died October 5, 1957, according to information received in the Alumni Office. His widow sur\*ivcs. 
JOHN B. MORG.VX', '40, of Mount Vernon. Xcw York, died In February of 1957, according to information just received in the Alumni Office. His widow survives. 
JOHN J. FALLON, '41, Detroit attorney, died October 26, l957. He was with the firm of Manlc>-, Bennett & Co., Detroit investment brokers, and was a professor of law at the University of DetroiL He is survived by his widow and seven dilldrcn. 
SISTER M. LIGUORI (TERBRACK), O.S.F., *48, died during the year 1956, according to in­formation just receivid in the Alumni Office. She was assigned to St, Boaaventurc Convent, Toledo, Ohio, at the time of her death. 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
MARK A. NIEMAN, '53, Columbus, Ohio, died in January of 1957, according to word Just received In the Alumni Office. 
JOHN E. EGAX, JR., '55, Chicago, III., was killed in an aulo accident September 23, 1957. He was the son of John E. Egan, alderman of Chicago's I3th ^\'ard. 
LIEUT. MICH/\EL J. McCORMICK, '55. Toledo, O., was killed in an automobile acddent December 22, 1957, in Dover, Dcla. He is sur­vived by his parents. Dr. and Mrs. Ed"'ard J. Mc­Cormick, of Toledo. 
EDWARD J. MURPHY, '55, Spring Lake, Mich., died September 27, 1957. He was a partner with his father In Murphy Heating and Air Conditioning Co. Surviving are his parents, ifr- and Mrs. Edward C. Murpliy of Spring Lake. 
BROTHER R.\LPH LeGATH, C.S.C.. a teacher In the \^ncentian Institute, Albany, N. Y., died May 31, 1957, according to Information just re­ceived in the Alumni Office, He had been sched­uled to depart for service in the foreign missions. He is survived by his parents and a brotlier. 
BROTHER CLAVER REARDON, C.S.C.. of X'otrc Dame, died Oct. 6 In the Student's Infirmary'. For 13 years an assistant infimiarian in tlie Com­munity Infirmary-, Brother Claver had worked since 1947 in the cashier's office In the Administration Building. Survivors include two brothers and a sister. 
PROFESSOR HENRY C. F. STAUNTOX, pro­fessor emeritus In English literature, died October 15, 1957, at Lourdcs Hospital, Binghamton, N. Y., after a long Illness. He retired five years ago after 25 years on the Notre Dame faculty. Professor Staunton joined the faculty in 1926 and became a full professor In 1935. In 1948 he was the recipient of the faculty award for distinguished service. .\ former high school English instructor and rector of Episcopalian diurches in Binghamton and Syra­cuse, N. Y., he became a Catholic in 1925. He bdongcd to many learned sodetlcs and was the author of many articles in periodicals. He is sur­vived by his widow; two sons, John J. Staunton. '32, Oak Park, 111,, and Dr. Henry A. Staunton. '36, South Bend, Ind.; and three daughters, plus several grandchildren. 
R£uniorv Junc67-9 
'05 ^ 
B. J. Kaiser 

1912 
Alfred D. Reid Associates 324 Fourth Avenue Pittsburgh 22, Pa. 
m Reunion M June 6-7-5 
P J CLASS 
mmm 

^41^«^^ 
i 15 
Paul R. Byrne 

1913 
Box 46 Jfotrc Dame, Indiana 
Ron O'Neill 

1914 
1350 No. Black Oak Dr. South Bend 17, Indiana 
James E. Sanford 

1915 
1429 W. Farragut Avenue Chicago 40, Illinois 
Grover F. Miller 

1916 
612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, Wisconsin 
Edward J. McOsker 

1917 
2203 Briar>vood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
CLIFFORD O'SULLIVAN, '20 

Last spring Clifford O'SulIivan's dis­tinguished career as an attorney and Republican leader was climaxed by his appointment to the Federal Court bench in Detroit. He was chosen for recommendation to President Eisen­hower by Senator Charles E. Potter (R., Michigan) from about 25 candi­dates under consideration. 
Prior to liis appointment Judge O'Sullivan had been engaged in die private practice of law continuously since graduation and for 35 years in Port Huron, Michigan. He ser\'cd six terms as St. Clair County G.O.P. chair­man and was named Michigan's Re­publican national committeeman in 1955. 
Before graduating at Notre Dame as vice-president of his law class. Judge O'Sullivan had spent two years in ser­vice during \Vorld War I and studied briefly at King's College and Lincoln's Inn, London, England. In 1920 he went to work for the Port Huron firm of \Valsh & AValsh. From 1924 to 1926 he was associated with the firm of De-Frees, Buckingham & Eaton in Chi­cago, after which he returned to Port Huron to form a partnership with AValsh & Walsh, now continuing as Walsh, O'Sullivan, Stommel & Sharp. 
He married Theresa Kearney in Chi­cago in 1928. They have five children: two boys, Clifford Patrick, '51 (now with the law firm), and Jolm Kearney: three daughters. Sheila and t\vins Therese and Mary. 
1918 GcoTgc E. Harbcrt 
• ' • ** Rm. 500, Rock Island Bank Bldg. Rock Island, Illinois 
Time is running out on us. Hardly an issue is printed but \vc do not include a notice of the death of one of our classmates. So, before it is too late, be sure to plan to make our fortieth class reunion in June of 1958. 
Belatedly we extend our sympathv to MRS. JOSEPH FELDOTT. Joe (LL.B '18) passed a%vay on Xovcmbcr 3, 1956, but news of his death just reached the Alumni OfHcc last month. 
A practicing lawyer in Aurora, 111., since 1918, Joe gained a wide circle of friends, particularly in his work with juveniles, where his fatherly advice and sound judgment Were greatly responsible for the making of some of the finest citizens in the Fox River Valley. 
Joe was a member of Our Lady of Good Counsel Church and the Holy Name Society of this church. He was also a member of the Knights of Columbus, American Legion, the Irish Fellowship Club, Phoenix Club, the Illinois State Bar Association and the Notre Dame Club of Aurora, III. 
He left surviving him a wife, two sons and two daughters. His classmates extend their sincere sympathy to his family. 
MAXIMILIAN G. KAZUS (LL.B. '18) has al­ready made his plans to attend our anniversary*. Believe it or not Ma.-<c has retired at the age of seventy! 
In October Max UTIS tendered a banquet by his fellow workers in Buffalo, N. Y., to honor him for his loyal and courteous service In the Income Tax Division of the Internal Revenue Department. At this banquet Max was presented with the Albert Gallatin Award for distinguished government service. 
The framed ccrlificate, prKcnlcd by district di­rector Eugene C. Coyle, Jr., cited Mr. Kazus for his "honorable and meritorious 5cr\'icc" to the Treasury Department. Named after the fourth treasury secrciar>*, the award was signed by present secrelar>', Robert B. Anderson. 
His host of friends wish Max many happy years, and wc are sure he retains the youthful outlook which sure fooled us as to his age. 
\fax joined the government ser\'icc in 1921 and his motto: "Be Courteous; It doesn't cost anything," has made a lasting impression on his associates, and the many businessmen with whom he came In contact. 
In his work he dealt with the galaxy of special txxes levied by the government and became such and expert that many law^'ers and businessmen turned to him for advice. Since 1952, he lias been a revenue agent. 
A life resident of BufTalo, Mr. Kazus attended School 20 and Technical High School before Notre Dame, liclping to finance his education by working during vacations as a lathe and crane operator. 
He worked briefly as a law clerk after graduation and then went with the government. 
He and his wife, Marie, have been married 33 years. The>- have two daughters, Mrs. Rosemar>-Bergncr and Mrs. Florence Love, both of Kcnmorc, and five grandchildren. Now he can devote more time to his hobby of flower growing and, as a member of the Men's Flower Club of Buffalo, he hopes to speak to groups Interested in growing flowers. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Now that journalism grad CHARLES \\\ CVLL has retired from Falrclilld Publications after 38 years in harness he expects to be on hand for the 1958 reunion. (Let that be a reminder to the entire class of '18.) He can be reached at 225 Patcrson Ave., Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. 
1919 Theodore C. Radcniakcr 
Peru Foundry Company 
Peru, Indiana 
192 0 J^ii>^ ^- Ryan 
107 Magec Avenue Rochester 13, New York 
192 1 Dan W.Duffy 
'^ ' 1101 N3.C. Building Cleveland 14, Ohio 
Received this letter recently from LEO D. KELLEY in Syracuse: 
"Dear Dan: 
•'Read in the recent Alumnus that you were registered at the June reunion. Undoubtedly, to make a prli'ate and personal presentation of a wing for the new Seminary. 
"Since July 12, I have been a gentleman of leisure. At 4 A.M. of that date, I was hit by a coronar>- thrombosis, spent the next four weeks fiat on my back in the hospital; then four more at home and now for the past three weeks, up and about on a restricted basis. Hope to start back to the office In another week or two. In the same class as JOE BR/VNDY and GEORGE ^^^TERIED now. 
"Have had several letters from Joe and talked with him on the phone the other day. RANGY MILES and Mrs. dropped in on the Brandys, so Joe put them on the phone. Joe has sold out the radio station — good deal, and he expects to close it soon. He'll probably go on a lecture tour then like Paulding. 
"This lazy life has grown on me. 1 sleep nine or ten hours everv* night and take two naps during the day^ I feel like a million bucks —• never have had any pain or discomfort after the first day. Expect to live quite normally again after a few months. 
*'Brandy pla>*s eighteen holes most every day and says he won the club championship again this year. I'm no champ, but expect to be trying again next year. 
"KENNEY made a great recovery — sold his business a year ago and has a little job with a bank. It keeps him busy with no responsibilities. He feels swell. 
"If you have time, I'd appreciate a run down on the doings at Notre Dame in June." 
From the Alumni Office: 
DR. EDWARD N. ANDERSON was recently the subject of a column by CHARLIE CALLAHAN In the national edition of Our Sunday Visitor. The story discussed his coaching career at Columbia (now Loras) College, OePaul, loiva and, presently, at Holy Cross, and gave a rundown on Notre Dame days under Rockne and the latest develop­ments in his family. 

1 922 <^crald A. Ashe '^ ^ 39 Camhridgc Street Rochester 7, New York 
This time of year it has become a good habit to felicitate our '22 football coaches who arc stUI in the football ^^ars, and w-inning many Important football battles after some 30 years of the coaching profession. These men, of course, are: DOCTOR ED\VARD ANDERSON of Holy Cross, and L^WVRENCE "BUCK" SHAW of the Air Force .Academy. Both of these men are highly respected by their fellow coaches and by the players they coach. Doctor Eddie coached at Iowa University and Holy Cross, while Buck Shaw was engaged at Santa Clara University, and the San Francisco 49'crs of the professional league before going to the Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Both men have In the past turned In fine past season coaching performances. Doctor Eddie with the College All Stars against the professional champions In Chi­cago's annual classic, and Buck has turned in fine victories for the All West Coast team against the All East team in San Francisco for the annual Shrine benefit game. 
Our sincere s>-mpathy Is extended to our good neighboring Class ol 1923 which has lost five of Its fine members by death very recently. Details arc printed in the 1923 column. We have always enjoyed fine relations with our neighbors of '23, and as recently as last June for our 35th reunion, we were joined in our celebration by such '23 delegates as BRUCE HOLMBERG, HON. ROGER KILEY, AUGUST DESCH and O. J. LARSEN. 
DAN'NY COUGHLIN of Waseca, Minn., has recently been affiliated with the Minnesota State Highway Department headquarters In St. Paul. Danny Is hoping to see some of his '22 buddies at the December 4 meeting of the Twin Cities 
N. D. Club. 
We direct our best wishes to Joyce Xfary Kerver, daughter of the Lakewood, Ohio, GEORGE KERVERS, who was married to James Joseph Dunn of the United States Army at St. James Church, Lakewood, on November 30. Wc salute the ne^vly%%*eds and their parents. 
DOCTOR HENRY ATKINSON, who treats the bruises of the Green Bay Packers professional football players when not engaged In other medical duties, presently has a near record number of injured Packers to put back Into playing shape. 
ST. LOUIS—President John Higgins (left)  presents Lou Fehlig with a special plaque .for 

turning in the low score of the day in the Club^s annual Golf Tournament. Loolung on aie Ed "Moose" Krause, guest speaker at the cven^ and Gene Fehlig who served as Golf Day Chamnan. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 37 
'aa.w»i»gBaxi..jLL-i.,.-, 
JAAfES J. BYRNE, '43 

In a few crowded years Jim Bynie has run a personally founded lumber business into a multi-million dollar na­tional operation, has achieved the rari­fied atmosphere of die Young Presi­dents' Organization and has still found time to become a valuable leader in Alumni and University afTairs. 
After graduation Jim went to mid­shipmen's school and during AVorld AVar II served as executive officer of a submarine chaser. After the war he opened the first coin-operated home laimdr\' in Micliigan. He became a sales representative for a Detroit ply­wood company and by 1953 had risen to sales manager and assumed the presi­dency of a regional affiliate of the in­ternational lumbennen's organization. 
Jim organized his own plywood com­pany in 1954. AVithin the first two years the Byrne Pl)'\vood Company had a national volume over $6,000,000.00. 
He is a member of the YPO along with Fatlier Hesburgh and half a dozen other Notre Dame men. A director of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit for the past five years, he was elected presi­dent in 1956. Currently he is chairman of the Notre Dame Film Committee and chairman of the student selection committee for the University's Admis­sions Office. 
Jim lives in Detroit with his wife Mary Ann, a graduate of Barat College of the Sacred Heart, and three sons, Francis Aloysius, James Kevin and Robert Bellamiine. 
38 Notre Dame AlumniLs, March, 1958 
reunion 
Jiine6-7-8 
•Z3 

1 00 3 Louis V. Bruggncr 
2165 Riverside Drive 
South Bend, Indiana 

Never In the history of the Class of 1923 lias there been sucli a frcqticnc>* of deaths as we Iiave suffered recently. In. a period of 26 days, there Iiave been five deaths of classmates. First was that of EDW.ARD W. GOULD, who died on October 23 in a Chicago liospital, where he had been con­fined for treatment of gastric ulcers. Death, how­ever, was due to a sudden heart attack. Ed had written your secretary' a penciled note from the hospital on Tuesday, asking that neu-s of his ill­ness be withheld from the Ne\*"s-Lelter sent out regularly to class members and indicating that he expected to attend ihc Navy game. The next day he was dead. 
Next to go was KJVRL J. BARR, Salem, Oregon. A note from his widow to FATHER JOHN CAV/VXAUGH announced his demise: "On Oct. 24 Notre Dame lost one of its most loyal sup­porters . . . not in the line of athletics but in the line of Our Lady . . . died quietly and peacefully while sitting in a cliair here at home. . . . lie had not been ill . . . but for a long time had not looked well." Besides ilrs. Barr, three cliildrcn sur\ivc. 
FATHER CAsnna J. wrrucKi, c.s.c., pastor of St. Casimir's Church, South Bend, died Nov. 7 in his rcctor>- after an illness of several months. He had been pastor for 11 years, previous to which he had been assistant pastor at St. Ilcdwigc^s Church, also in South Bend. 
JOHN F. CONNELL, Denver. Colorado, u-as the fourth in the scries. John had worked briefly in South Bend as an architect, following graduation, met and married Mar>* Jane Wordcn, and later moved to Denver. She and five diildrcn survive. 
JOHN T. FOGARTY, formerly of Anderson, Ind., died suddenly November 18 in Panama, ap* parently of a heart attack. John represented the \Mllard Batter\' Co. in Central and South America and, with his wife and four children, made his home in Panama CIt>*. Further details were un­available at this writing. Word came to hand through FATHER JOHN REDDINGTON, C.S.C., former townsman and classmate of Fogarty. 
The Gould drath renews attention to the death in 1927 of PAT O^CON'NELL, Eddie's friend and fcllow-munimrr in the famous campus interpreta­tion of the Mr Gallaghcr-Mr. Shean comedy skit, which \%as famous in that era on the New York stage. 
FOD COTTON has relumed to the fold. Routine handling by the Alumni Office of graduation rec­ords placed Fod with the Class of 1924, since (Fod explains) his diploma reads the "V day of August MCMXXIV." However wc all considered him a '23 man and his mailings are now going out on the basis of that premise. His letter, re­cently arrived, was on stationery of the United Ser\-icc Organiiation (as yet unexplained) and his address is 4509 Cambridge Court, Kansas Citv 10, Mo. 
JOHN G. BYR.VE, of the Buffalo-Niagara Falls Byrnes' Enterprises, writes *'The Power Authority of the State of New York is starting a 5600­milllon power development here this fall. It is possible some oi the N. D. men may come here as suppliers, or with contractors, etc. We are in close contact with this job and if we can assist anyone in steering them around wc will be glad to do so. This office (Byrne Warehouse, Inc.) can always locale me. I spend some of my time at the Wallens-Byrne Packing Corporation in Buffalo but get to Niagara Falls every day." 
LYLE MILLER reports: "Called STANLEY BRADBURY and asked him to travel to the re­union with me. . . . Stan's health is greatly im­proved. .. . I told Stan I was going to contact BILL FrrZGER/\LD at Evansvillc to see if the three of us could come together." Lyic adds the prophetic sentence: "have tickets for tlic Oklahoma game • . - plan to fly ... it would be one great day in history if wc could beat the Sooners.*^ (letter dated 10/17) 
STAN BRADBURY, State's Attorney for Craw­ford County, lU., with ofBces at Robinson, 111., 
JAMES W. WARDELL, '32 
American Can Company appointed 

J. AV. Wardell general sales manager of its non-food container division last summer. Formerly he was sales man­ager in charge of the New York metro­politan sales district. 
Since joining Canco in 1932, Jim has worked in a circuit of cities, ser\'ing consecutively in BrookhTi, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis, Kan­sas City, Chicago and again New York. He started in the engraving depart­ment of the company's Brooklj-n fac­tor>'. Between 1935 and 1943 he held various posts in both the New York and Philadelphia district sales offices. 
During ^Vorld ^Var II he was a lieu­tenant scn'ing as executive officer of the Nav/s Container Division in AVash­ington, D. C. Returning to Canco in 1946, he was assigned to the company's Central division sales offices in Chi­cago. He was appointed manager of the Kansas Cit)' regional sales office in 1948 and returned to Chicago in 1952 as commodit)' manager in charge of Central division non-food sales. 
Jim has three brothers also working for Canco, Bill, '33, Harold, '38, and Bob, '41, in manufacture, sales and the legal department, respectively. He is married to the former Marie McCahill of New Rochelle, N. Y. They have two sons, J. W. and Bill (a Junior in the College of Commerce), and a daugh­ter, Barbara Anne. 
Three N.D. generations gather as P, A. McPhillips, '93, regales his two grandsons, Eugene McGuinncss Saxon {seated on floor at left), a junior, and Da\-id W, Saxon, Jr. (on floor at right), a senior, with talcs of campus life three-quarters of a century ago. Son-in-law David 
W. Saxon, '29, (seated on arm of the sofa) listens in. The four live in Memphis where Mr. McPhillips is a department store executive and the elder Saxon is a public relations counsellor. 
uTolc a two-page IcUcr which I'd hke to quote, but will be forced to abbreviate: "The work I do as state's attorney with, delinquent children is the part I really enjoy, tr>'ins to straighten out boys and girls. . . . Have spent 25 years on this work as my hobby . . . for the past four years have been president of Big Brothers and Sisters Ass'n of Illinois, a voluntary group of 2,500 citizens. I really feci that this work in the past year has snapped nic out of the after effects of polio better than any therapy . . . five weeks ago discarded my cane . . . still have a weak leg. . . . While I was in Barnes Hospital^ St. Louis, in 1956, FATHER CAV*\NAUGH came to sec me and wc had a wonderful visit. . . - We had quite a tragedy in our family this summer, my niece, like a daughter to ^fr3. B. and m>*sclf, had just finished freshman year at Indiana University, drowned. Never found out what happened, slic \^'as an 
excellent swimmer.** 
All of our Class descendents are being enrolled in the Association of the Providential Proposal, through the Retreat House of Our Lady of Fatima at Notre Dame. This association has been ap­proved by several Popes since 1875 and it has among its purposes the promotion of devotion to the Sacrifice of the Mass and the perpetuation of con­stantly maintained suffrages in behalf of tJie de­parted cnroUees. A group of t^velvc religious priests, specifically ordained for this purpose, cele­brate twelve Masses every day for the intention of members, living and deceased, at the Abbey-Basilica of the Immaculate Virgin ^fary, at Genoa, Italy. Benediction of the Blessed Sacrament and other prayers are also recited doily, :is well as other spcdal scrvicK. 
These Masses and prayers arc pledged to be said daily, until the end of time. If any readers of these notes are interested m personal enrollment, write to Rev. Michael A. Foran, C.S.C, Our Lady of Fatima Retreat House, Notre Dame, Ind. 
From the Alumni OfBce: The Dayton Daily News recently put ED SHEA right at the top of a story on old grads who've 
kept their school spirit. The story quotes Ed as saying he frcqiicnlly goes oat of his way to \Tsit the campus and comes back every June no matter what class is having the reunion. 
I OOA James R. Mechan . 
• '^ ^ 329 So. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Indiana 
PROFESSOR JOE RY/\N reports having heard from AL SERVA of Dalhart, Texas, recently. Al mentioned that his father was gravely ill and might hav-e to undergo a very serious operation. The prayers of his classmates would be very much appreciated. 
1925 J°**" ^' Hurley 
/AW 2085 Brookdale Road 
Toledo 6, Ohio 

With a deadline coming up "I must be about my class's business." Our reunion at the Morris Inn u-asn't as large as Armstrong and I had hoped for, but those who were there had a lot of fun. BOB GORDON and ^L\URIE BOLAND were on deck from Fort ^Vaync, DR. CY OVLDAVELL and our president DON MILLER from Clcveland, BILL BELL came all the >vay from Rochester, -N. y., and TOM CVRFAGNO from Hanover, Pa. JOHN ROACH from Milwaukee. GEORGE LUDA\TG was there from Muskegon, and GEORGE SCH\VART2 takes the prize for distance . . . from ^Vichita, Kans. DR. C. J. FOLEY, ED CUDDIHY and LEO POWERS were there from the Chicago area. BERNIE LIVERGOOD was there from Decatur, 111., and BILL HURLEY registered from the home town of Saginaw, Mich. JOE SCALISE of Cu>-ahoga Falls, Ohio. JLM ARMSTRONG and your secretary completed the list of those who registered. All of these fellows had guests as well as fellows from classes, near us. I can remember seeing RED SHEA and GENE >L\YLE of Dayton, TOM FARRELL of South Orange, N. J., and DOC GLEASON from Brooklyn. JOE HILGER was there from Columbus, Ind., BILL CONNERS from Chicago and RED MAKER from Park Ridge, 
111. I almost forgot JOHN W. COURTNEY of Dearborn, Mich. .. . a 25er who always shows up for our football cocktail parties. TIM GALVIN of Hammond, Ind., came In for a minute to look over the bo^-s whom he put through the Knights of Columbus paces, and JOHNNIE CHAPLA of Lorain, Ohio, was with us for a few'minutes. There were others too, but these were the boys whom wc got to register. 
Our Mass Fund -was enriched by 523 and wc got some letters from some of the bo>'s w-e haven't heard from for some time. 
CL.ARENCE HARPING, director of public re­lations for the South Bend Tribune, writes: *'l am sorry, but it looks as though I will be unable to make the class reunion this year. We run a pro­motion of the paper.and the station in which wc bring a number of agency people from Chicago to Notre Dame football games. The Na\'y game has been selected for the television party, and I pre­sume I will be busy with it all afternoon. Give my regards to all boys." We missed you, Clar­ence. . . . Wc hope you can make it next year for the Army game. (Wc play them at Notre Dame, and you fellows had better count on that game as our 1925 cocktail party. Nothing but the best for the Class of *25. Get your tickcu!) 
MIKE KEYES, the Country Life Editor of "The Fresno Bee" of Fresno, California, writes: **Thaiik you for the invitation to the cocktail party follow­ing the Navy game. I'd like to be with you hut 'no can go' . -• too far. I got a big boot out of the thrilling climxv to the Army game and I am sure I wasn't alone. Whatever happens for the rest of the season, it now cannot possibly be as dismal as last year's. Our local Notre Dame Club had a gathering the night before the game and cheered the team on. There are only seven of tss in it, but the spirit is in keeping with the best Notre Dame tradition. I hope the 25ers iviU have an cnJo>-ab]e and enthusiastic gathering after the Navy game . . . and something to cheer about!" Well, Mike, wc weren't too happy about the results of the Navy game, but after that Oklahoma game I agree \*'ith Forest Ei'ashevski .. . Brennon is the Coach of the Year. 
NORB SKELLEY sent a check for ?10.00 for 
^fasses along with a nice note: "We are making' 
plans to celebrate Salina's lOO-year anniversary nest 
year, the iveek end of the Na\-y game. Our midget 
Notre Dame Club here is running a tr:un to 
Oklahoma game at Norman in three weeks. We 
will have 324 fans to cheer the Irish on. Best 
regards to all.'* Well, Norb, it must have been 
your cheering that caused the greatest upset of the 
football season. . . . Nice going! 
FR/\NK HOWLi\ND writes: "Sorry I can't make 
the Navy game this year inasmuch as I would 
enjoy being with some of the old-timers of the 
Class of '25. Margaret and I ivent over to Phila­
delphia for the Army game, and while I did not 
sec you, I understand you were there. 
"I had a nice visit ^rith H.ARRY STUHL­
DREHER and JIM CROWLEY, the latter cf whom 
I have not seen, I don't believe, since I left school. 
It was, of course, a great game, and I hope they 
win repeat their fine performance when they meet 
Navy. Of course, I will be going to the Michigan 
State game up here. If you arc going over, please 
call me. I would like very much to see yoiu 
Please remember me to all of my classmates, and 
my very best wishes to you." Sorry we missed 
seeing each other last fall, Frank, but let's plan 
on the Army game next year. 
BARNEY MacNx\B of Campbdl & MacNab, Port­
land, Ore., writes: "I am sorry I won't be able 
to join the rest of the 25ers at the party after the 
Navy game, but the distance is great and right at 
tlie moment I can't figure out any business to take 
me East. I will be thinking of you and the crowd 
and hope you will give them all my best %vishes 
and hoist one for me. Thanks for your note." 
Thank you, Barney .. . a lot of your friends 
w^U be happy to read j-our nice note in this 
column. 
JOHN F. KILKENNY of Kilkenny & Fabrc, 
Pendleton, Ore., writes: "Again, my regrets at 
being' unable to attend the party for the Class of 
'25. My thoughts and very best wishes vnll be with 
you and the other members of the Class. A check 
in the sum of $5.00 as a contribution to the fun 
is enclosed." Thanks, John. This time that check 
goes to the Fund . . . the Mass Fund, that is. 
Attention! Here's an old timer coming to life. EAIMETT GRINAGER of Clear Lake, Mnn . . . . "Can you imagine after 32 years, a letter. I have been going to drop yoa a line for years and years, but they go by so fast and I just kept 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 39 
putting it off. John, if I went Into details and told vou all of my trials, it would take mc ages. I have been a continual accident jinx ever since 1923. Can't dope it out, but there is always sometliing ha\-wire. Just t*vo years ago I was a dead duck as far as tlie M.D.'s were concerned. I had cancer of tlic bladder . . . had it removed and feeling fine again. I love to hunt ducks. A week ago Saturday I tipped over my hunting boat and was in the water for one hour and fifteen minutes before reaching shore. Temperature ten above at the time. By ihe grace of God someone came along and found mc and brought me home to re­cover and get thawed out. I was as stiff as a board, thc>- tell me. I have had more stitclies taken in and out of mc than a sewing center. 1 Iiopc I have hit the end ol ray tough luck. Just the same the %vife and I manage Just fine. AVe are in the tavern business and also have a uniform shop in St. Cloud. AVe have one daughter, ^c' s married and is at the present time in Hamburg, Germany. I don't sec many of my classmates because I haven't been too active, but if God is willing I will make one of the reunions soon. Give my best regards and my prayers for you and all my former classmates. I think of all of you often but to write . . . what a chore that seems to be. Vour sincere friend, Emmett.'* Well, Emmctt, it was great hearing from you and, boy . . . it*s later than you think! You had better make that Army reunion next fall. You Iia\'e had your share of tough luck, and I'm sure you Have crossed over to the sunny side of the mountain. 
We learn the following about TOM BARRY from Blackburn-Hamilton Co. He *'has had a wealih of experience in the newspaper field in the Middle West, as well as in California. He was on the Chicago Examiner for nine years, following whicli he became Director of Public Relations and .•\5sistant Professor of Journalism at Notre Dame from 1934 to 1941. Tom then joined the organizing group for the Chicago Sun and was night editor at the Sun all during AVorld War II. In January, 1946, he came west and purchased Paso Roblcs Press. Within a short time, he had enlarged the operation to a semi-\veekly, and in 1952 turned it into a five-day daily operation. He is now looking forward to a well earned vacation from his duties as a newspaper publisher.'* 
STEVE CORBOY of Town and Country Prop­erties, Inc., of Boca Raton, Florida, writes: *'En­closed arc copies of letters I have sent to Romcy and HANK WUR2ER and the data therein will bring you up to date as far as I am concerned. It w-as really shocking to read about our friends. I don't like the use of the word sunset. After all, we arc young." Steve's letter to Hank; **I hope tliis finds you and Marge In good health; and con­gratulations on haWng a senior at N.D. Our oldest girl is In college so we arc not doing too badly. To bring you up to date on the Corboys .. . about two years ago I sold my company. I Went back on the Board of Slmonlz with a con­tract for ten years as a consultant. That was boring beyond all belief. In a family corporation, an outside director doesn't have as mucli to do as a tail on a dog. I got rid of that and took tip loafing as a profession. Then this copy of a letter to PAUL ROMWEBER will bring you up to date on subsequent events." To Paul: '*A year ago tills month, I had a serious operation in which they remo\cd my IjTnph gland. I was in the hospital for a clicck-up and tlic\' discovered a malignancy in my leg and so the surgery*. AVhile recuperating I came down here and having no interest to do anything in Chicago, I got the bug. Tlic first thing we did %vas to organize a s>*ndicatc, bought some property In this area; and right now we have started construction on 29 co-op villas in Dccrficld Beach whicli is just south of Boca Raton. We have a lovely home at Hllbboro Harbor, Pampano Beach. I have also gone into the real estate business and I am associated witli an old friend and our offices arc In this oty. It is going to be a lot of fun and I am enjoying every minute of it. I was shocked this morning to pick up the Alumnus and see tlie way our friends arc popping out of tlie picture. I am going to write to Ilank today aiid send him a check." •\Vcll, bo>-s, I have one more piece of bad news and tlien I hope to paint a brighter picture. 
PAUL ROMWEBER sa>-s: "I just returned from Washington. I had tlie sad mission of assisting In the burial of my good friend, FRANK AfcCARXm'. It was a ver>' large funeral, conducted by Bishop Hannan. He died of tumor in the brain and nothing could be done to save him. He had a 
news regarding the Romwebcrs. We are going along as usual. I am stiU peddling furniture around the East. Hope this finds you and your family well." Be sure to pray for Frank. A Mass is being said for him. Brother Hyacinth, C.S.C., Of­fice of the Director of Vocations, Saint Joseph of Holy Cross, Valatic, New York. *'Thank you for continuing to write to mc each year to invite me to a reunion of the Class of 25. To date, I have not had even one occasion to attend one of tlie reunions. I am ahvays too far away. And now, \vith our division into territories, my diances are smaller than ever before. .At present, we are trying to build up the works of the Congregation somewhat to the extent w-e have attained in tlic Midwest. Our opportunities are without limit here in the East. Unfortunately that makes my work all the more extensive — the personal procurement be­comes more difficult. Wc are very grateful for all that has come our way. AVith kindest greeting to all our former classmates and to you for inviting mc." Many thanks. Brother, and keep praying for all those classmates. 
Here's a real cliccrful one from £. E. (RIP) MILLER, .Assistant Director of Athletics of the Naval Academy. "Dear Johnny: Now, is that nice, sending me a blurb talking about sinking the Na\y. I think that was bad luck for you to start your letter out *rith '.-Anchors away.' You should have said 'Batten down the hatches and we will sink the Navy.' So, you've made your mistake now, boj-, and I'm afraid you're going to have to wony about it from now on. You can bet yoMX life that I'll be aboard, John, as wc stay right there at the Inn. I'll no doubt see you before the game, and I'll drop around aftcn%'ards to see some of the old boys. I note In your announcement that you talked about 'Those good old days of the; Four Horsemen.' Why don't you mention those old 'Seven Mules' once in a ^vhile? After all, we were underfed and overworked, just so they could let those Four 'Hosscs' run all over the place, but that 'Was some backfield, John. I don't believe I've ever seen one before or since. It had everything in one unit of four people. As you know, I've been banging away here on the Severn for a long number of years and I like It more and more as the time goes along. Wc are looking forward to a good season. Inasmuch as we feel that we have the material and coaching. I was glad to set Terry get away to a good start against Purdue last week, and I certainly hope he continues to have a good year. He's a great guy and I am for him one hundred per cent, as Is the rest of the Navy. We arc looking forward to our trip out there, as 'usual, and ^ve alwa>'s enjoy playing against Notre Dame, whether it be the ^fid-^Vest, East or West or whatnot. I hope all goes well %vlth you, John, and 
that your family are all happy and enjoying good health. Meanwhile, I'U stand by until I see you out there. I wish you all the luck in the world. Sincerely yours, Rip." Thanks a million Rip. Please don't tell Terry I made that error about "Anchors au-ay." I am sure that's why the Navy sank us. Your team played a great game that day. Rip, and I know you have every reason to be proud of them. Tlic Class of 1925 congratulates you on a job well done. I know that Notre Dame feels the same way about the Na\-y, and if we do have to take It on tlie chin once ia a while . . . we'd just as soon it would be the Navy because they have stuck with us all through the years. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOSEPH P. COLLIGAN, whose Colllgan & Co. docs a thriving insurance business in Fort Wayne, recently boned up with a four-week resident course at the Mutual Insurance Institute in Chicago. Joe Is tlie father of ten children. Two boys, Joseph F., '54, and Paul Charles, '56, are attending the Loyola University ^fcdicaI School in Chicago. Another son, Charles .A., was graduated from Notre Dame in 1957, and Jerome A. has just entered. Joe is director of extension for the St. Vincent dePaul Society in the Diocese of Fort Wayne. He is a member of the Fort Wa>Tie Club, the Knights of Columbus, the Y.M.C.A. and the Fort Wayne Chamber of Commerce. 
GEORGE VERGARA, now mayor of New Ro­cliellc, N. Y., has raised a storm of reform In the home town which has been widely covered by New York papers. 
JOHN W. SCALLAN was elected to a director­ship In Pullman, Inc. John joined Pullman right out of school. He was elected vice-president of Pullman-Standard Car Manufacturing Co. in 1944 and became vice-president and general manager in 1953. 
192 6 ^"(l<>lpb ^- Goepfrich 
1109 No. Cleveland Avenue 
South Bend 28, Indiana 

From the last three issues of the ".Alumnus" you will see that we had quite a spurt of news. This resulted from the questionnaire which I sent out last spring. The returns have now tapered off con­siderably, as \vill be noted from this Issue. The following statistics tell the story: 
370 Alive and In touch , , 280 - 61 Whereabouts unknown.. „. ... . 29 

To date I have heard from 89; this leaves 191 unheard from, besides the 29 missing ones. I cx­
bright future ahead of him In the Pennsylvania 
KANKAKEE—Bob Dcnnc, co-captain of the Notre Dame basketball team, was a recent 
Railroad. He left nine children. Five of them ten and under. It is a tough break. I haven't much club guest. Photograi^cd with Dcvinc arc Bruce Huot and \farvin Huot, club president. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1958 
HUBERT J. SCHLAFLY, JR., '41 

A real power behind ever\'thing from Ed Sullivan to the Democratic and Re­publican Conventions is H. J. "Hub" Schlafly, whose career in radar, tele­vision and motion pictures has led him to the vice-presidency of Teleprompter Corporation. Hub is the electronics wizard behind the gadget that has re­volutionized the arts of communication. 
After graduation in electrical engi­neering Hub went to General Electric, first as a test engineer and then as a member of the Advanced Development Laborator)' of the Electronics Depart­ment. During the war he was associ­ated with the staff of the Radiation Laborator)' at M.I.T., where he was concerned with radar direction of Naval gunfire control systems. 
In 1947 he left G. E. to become director of television research for 20th Centur)' FO.K and in 1951 was elected a Fellow of the Society of Motion Pic­ture and Television Engineers. 
AVith two partners he became inter­ested in the development of an elec­tronically sjTichronized prompting de­vice now known as Teleprompter. In 1952 he resigned his job with Fox to become vice-president in charge of engi­neering and a board member for Tele­prompter Corporation. 
In 1944 Hubert married Leona Martin of Chase Mills, N. Y., in the Lady Chapel at Notre Dame. They live in HoUis, Long Island, where he is active in the Notre Dame Club of New York. 
pect to send out another questionnaire to these. 
At the end of this column we arc Ibting the 29 missing classmates and their latest known address. Since these are not getting the ".Alumnus," they are probably unaware that they arc on the "miss­ing" list. Therefore, if you who read this column know of the whereabouts of any of these, please lec me know. 
GEORGE F. H.ARNETT, Ph.B., is owner of a Commodity Broker business in Chicago. His home­town was LaSalle, III. He was married a year after graduating and has a son, George, Jr., who is now a trader in his father^s brokerage oflice. George, Jr. received an .\.B, from Williams College in 1953 and a Law degree from Xorthwestem in 1956. George, Sr. is ver>- proud of his grandson, George David, born ifay 18, 1957. George's other activities include: member Wilmclte (111.) Harmony Committee, 1542; President, Merchants and ^lami­facturcrs' Club, three terms, 1952-55; Secretary-, Sunset Ridge Country Club, 1941-42; member Chicago Athletic Association. George would like to hear from ROSCOE J. KENNEDY, his roommate at Notre Oame. 
ALOYSIUS A. KIRK received an A.B. at Loras College in 1924, then an M..-\. from Notre Dame in 1926. He now lives in Redfield Village - 13B-2, Metuchen, New Jersey and his business address is National Council, Boy Scouts of .America, New Brunswick, N. J. He is presently Director, Catholic Relationships, Boy Scouts of America. AI was married in 1928 and has a son, Allan Francis, 23, who is a student member of the Society of Jesus, West Baden College, West Baden, Ind. 
MATTHEW A. NOL.\N and his associates arc now handling Lincolns, Mercur>-s and Edsels in Pontiac, 111., according to FR.VNK DEFTLE, who visited him in October. Matt previously, and for many years, handled Studebakcrs in that territory-
JOSEPH L. BARRLVGTON, after two years at Notre Dame, attended Yale in '25-'26 and re­ceived a B.A. from Columbia in 1927. Joe's home town was Peekskill, New York and he now lives in Englewood, N. J. He is now Copy Chiel, Indus­trial Protlucts, .Advertising Department Editor, Power Specialist for Johns-Manville, New York, In 1934 Joe married Jeanne A. Hoffman, Welles­ley '29 and is "still married, still happy." As an e-xtracurricular activity, he is a Sergeant, Engle­wood Police Reserve, and is a member of the Revolver Team of the same organization. Joe has published: "Engineer to Advertising Man," in In­dustrial Marketing in September 1946. While at Notre Dame, he lived in Brownson, then next to JOE ENGE3SER and across from WARD Mc-CARRON in Badin. Joe sa>"s, "Was glad to read about ^fcCarron, glad he has some sensible hobbies now, was especially interested in his fishing ex­ploits." He would like to hear from ENGESSER, PAUL H,\RRINGTON, DUKE CLiVNCY and ED. BURKE. Also wants to know where J.ACK D.AVIN is, said he couldn't locate him in Cleveland when he was last there. Joe hears from BUD TOPPING, '28, from time to time, and has worked with him on some jobs. .Also saw NICK SMITH at the fall bcerfest. 
Our class treasurer, VINCE GOULET, writes, among other things, as follows: *'On July 15, while in Newton, (Iowa), I turned my ankle, falling and breaking my leg and was laid up in Newton until a week ago Saturday, returning home by ambulance. This Saturday I go to the hospital for additional X-ray pictures and than I may be able to sit up and get around on crutches until about December 15, at which time I should be OK. I never was verv' clever on crutches, I recall when at school I had a bone broken in my foot by a cleat and was placed in the infirmary by old Doc Powers. I received the usual dose of salts and calomel from the good old German sisters and was told to stay off my foot. TOM LIEB was in at the same time with a broken leg and I had to share a pair of crutches. They were even too big for him. That sure was a pole vaulting job for me." Keep the ole chin up, Vince, and first thing you know you'll be as good as new. 
FRANK J. WALSH, LL.B., is an insurance broker with the AV. .A. Alexander Co. in Chicago, his home town. Frank is single. 
LEO P. ST. JOHN, B.S..M.E., came to Notre Dame from Kalamazoo, Mich. He now li%-es in Tampa, Fla. and is an Automotive Machinist Fore­man at MacDill Field, Tampa. As reported previ­ously, Leo's wife, Goldie, died on July 20, 1956. During World War II, Leo was Chairman of Social Activities in the Knights of Columbus. He is now Chairman of Religious Activities. He would like to hear from TOM SHERIDAN, NORBERT BLUJI and CARL SHICKLER. 
RAY DURST, past Class President, was Co-Chair-
CHARLES W. DUKE, '38 

Since Charles Duke was linked to aviation even in his college and war years, it is apt that he has been ap­pointed Director of Aviation for the New Orleans Aviation Board, Moisant International Airport, New Orleans, La., "Air Hub of the Americas." 
A native of LaPorte, Ind., Charlie matriculated in 1934. As a Notre Dame student and for four years after grad­uation he was an assistant in the sports publicity department and also parti­cipated in the government's Civil Pilot Training Program. 
In 1942 he joined the Civil Aero­nautics Administration in the air traf­fic control section, working in Chicago as an assistant airways traffic comp­troller. Six months later he was promoted to comptroller and in 1943 was placed in charge of the training program for the third region of the C.A.A. In December, 1943, he was assigned on detached duty by the C.A.A. to the North Atlantic wing of the Air Trans­port Command. 
Upon returning he was assigned to the Cincinnati Airways Traffic Con­trol Center. In 1946 he became man­ager of the St. Joseph County Airport, supervising its complete reconstruc­tion and instituting a cost record system which converted the airport from an $80,000 annual deficit to a self-sustaining basis, including deprecia­tion on capital investment. 
Charlie is married and has four chil­dren, two boys aged eight and five and two girls, seven and stc. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 41 
man with DON HOGx\X, 42, of the Sixth Aniii­versarv- Scliolarsliip Benefit Cocktail Dance Party, sponsored by the Xotre Dame Club of Chicago on October 19. 
JOSEPH KIGALI, '2G, and RED ^UHER, -24, Were Co-Chajniien of Ticket Sales for the same event. Ray and Mrs. Durst attended the October meeting of the Alumni Association Board of Direc­tors in Philadelphia. Thcv attended the Army game and saw MIKE DUFFY there. 
Upon returning from out-of-town on a week end carlv in October, I found tlie following note from JOHN E. PROBST In my mall box: "HI Rudy! Happened to be in tou'n and out your way. Haven't seen you since you registered mc for the draft for tile last war. Going out to sec my oldest son who is at the NoWtiale at Rolb'ng Prairie. He's going to be a Brother." John is on our "missing" list, and unfortunately he did not indicate his address on the note. However, we've got a lead now and I will get it through his son. 
Tile obituatT.- list in the last "Alumnus*' included JAMES V. NtAHER, '26, New York, with a note that lie died suddenly on July I. This is all the information we have at the present time. JOHN RY.-VN has asked TOM FARRELL, our Eastern Vice-President, to tr>' to get more information, whereupon we will notify ihe sur\-ivors about the Mass sponsored by the Class. 
John and Ona Ryan stopped in at our house after the Na\y game and we had a pleasant visit. 
In the last Issue of the "Alumnus," the following note appeared at the head of the '26 Class Xcws column: "Ed. Note: In between deadlines, Rudy went to Europe on business for his employer, the Bendix Corp. Mrs. K. accompanied him — J.C.)". I've really taken a lot of good-natured ribbing about this one. JOHN RYAN and I. I. PROBST, our Southern Vice-President, wrote me about it. So did JOHN CACKLEY, Managing Editor of the "Alumnus" as follows "Dear Rudy and MRS. G. ... If you Were stunned, shocked, cliagrlned and ready to sue following tlie last issue of "Confiden­tial" Alumnus, It u-as mild by comparison to my reaction when I read 1926's opening paragraph. After receiving a letter from John Ryan — contain­ing a reference to "Mrs. K." I was extremely curi­ous and It \^'as trepidation that I clicckcd the Class Column. Tlic double flip which 1 did would have qualified mc for John Ringling North's center ring. Mea culpa, mca culpa. J.C" . Mrs. G. and I both got a big kick out of It. 
Following Is the list of names and last known addresses of our "mbsing" classmates: BR^\DY, DANIEL JOHN, 619 Commerce BIdg., 
418 Olive St., St. Louis 2, Mo. BROWN, JOHN C , Gil7 Kenwood Ave, Chicago, Illinois BYRNE, AMLLIAM E., 196 Genesee St., Ullca 2, 
N. y. D.WIS, DR. FRED R., 54 Upper Berkeley St., W. 
London, England FIELD, D\nGHT L., 4433 Harrison St., Garv, Ind. GEBBEN, EDWARD J.. Chief, F.B.I., Denver. 
Colo. GULNON, CHARLES H., 1391 Younge St., To­ronto, Canada HAHN, LINSUNG, 236 E. Second St., Chillicothe, Ohio HARVEY, JOSEPH P., 915 N. Laramie Ave., Chi­cago, 111. JIMINE2, REV. PHILIP, O.P., Dominican Col­lege, Ponchatoula, La. KEELIX, JOHN \V., 156 E. 52nd St., Xe^v York, 
N. Y. KEN*NEDY, JAMES H., St. Louis Star Times, St. Ixmls 1, ifo. KILEY, HAROLD J., 501 W. Washington Ave., South Bend, Ind, MxVSEXICH, J.AY R., 26 Trowbridge St., Newton Center, Mass. MEYERS, ALFRED L., 1340 Taylor St., San Francisco, Calif. MINTER, WLLI.AM D., &i East Lake St., Chi­cago, 111. MOSSMAX. REV. P. HERMAX, O.S.B., St. Ber­nard, Alabama O'MALLEY, \aNCENT D., 908 W. Agatite Ave., 
Chicago 40, 111. PALLAXCK, LEOX J., Aurora, Minn. PIERCE, A. LESTER, 1013 Florida, Los Angeles, 
Calif. PROBST, JOHN E.. 12913 Kerr Ave., W>-andottc, SANCHEZ, M.ANUEL V. 
S.VXTON, J. A., New Gilendo, La. 
SCH.\MER, JOSEPH J., Hotel Davarine, Detroit, 
Midi. 
SIMON, EDWARD B., .-Vrlington Heights, III. 
TI.M.MIXS, GERALD L., 56 St, Siilpice Rd., 
Montreal, Canada 
WELSH, MAURICE P., Box 103, Bradv Lake, 
Ohio 

We were saddened by the news that MSGR, WIL­LIAM D. GREEX, age 53, died of a heart attack on X^ovcmbcr 16. He was a native of Burlington, Iowa, was graduated from Loras College, Dubuque, and from Xotrc Dame (.A.B.) in 1926; he studied thcoIog\- at tile Catholic University of America. Msgr, Green had been associated wjtii The Witness, official newspaper of the Diocese of Dubuque, since his ordination in 1930 and had been editor since 1951. .Arclibishop Leo Binz of Dubuque, la., of­fered the solemn pontifical Mass In St. Raphael Cathedral, Dubuque, on Xov. 30. In 1952 Msgr. Green was named a Domestic Prelate by the Holy Father. Sur\-iving Is his mother, Mrs. Tliomas Green, of Burlington, Iowa. 
On December 1, 1957, the Chicago Tribune car­ried a half-page thumbnail biography of WALTER TROHAX. It says: ".A light-hearted absence of awe for those in high places was born in the pres­ent chief of The Tribune's Washington bureau and has sur\'Ivcd the passage of years." It also describes some of his news scoops — and the awards he received for them. There are stories about en­counters with Presidents Roosevelt, Truman and Eisenhower and other men In high places. A resume of his activities since high school graduation rounds out the slor>-. There is also a late picture of Walter. 
192 7 Clarence J. Ruddy 
32 South River Street 
Aurora, Illinois 

My appeal in the last issue of the ALUMNUS for news about members of the Class evidently was not ver>' persuasive. The response ^vas sliort of over­whelming. As a matter of fact, I haven't heard from one single classmate. Practically the only voice I have heard has been that of JOE BOL^^XD on Saturday afternoons, and his remarks, of course, aren't exactly directed to mc personally. Ina­dcntally, have you noticed that his football broad­casts of Notre Dame games arc a lot more satisfy­ing than tlicj- were a year ago? 
I attended the Pittsburgh game with my family. Walking toward the campus after the game I noticed that the Class of 1928 was having a re­union in the Morris Inn. Because 1928 is pretty close to our own year of graduation, I decided to go over to the affair myself. I saw a lot of friends • from that Class. I tvas struck by one outstanding .'.' fact. You all will probably remember how yotmg-] tticy were when wc graduated. I recollect that, to •' us, who were all a year older, they looked Just like^ boys. Well, thc\* have now aged a lot. No less-, ' a person than my wife went so far as to say that^^' they looked older than I did, and I am not the. ' i one to deny it. " ; 
In any event, all those present enjoyed themselves ;*' 

thoroughly. The hours on a crisp autumn afternoon ;•. 
after a football game are Ideally suited for a gath-'. ; 
ering of classmates. Everybody is rela.\ed and happy ' I 
to meet friends who are not always able to set ", 
aside tlic particular week end designated for official I 
reunions. I know the Class of 1925 has been fol-• 
lowing the practice of football meetings for several , 
years, and they find the Idea is working out very 
well. Perhaps we should do something along that -^ 
line. 
Coming out of the Morris Inn 1 ran into JOHN H.'VRWOOD whose home u-as in Kentucky at the ' time he was in school, but now lives in Xashvlllc, ; Tenn. He Is doing very well too, although to be .^ perfectly candid in the rush of things I neglected to find out his occupation. ', 
Reunion jMnc67-8 
CIA5* 

1928 ^^^^ ^' ^uc^icy 
• '^ " 135 Blue Hills Parkway 
Milton 86, Massachusetts I regret to report the death of GEORGE F. COVERT, JR., In Toledo, Ohio, on September 12, 1957. His close friend, BILL CL/\RKE, advised me that George died of cancer after only a few months Illness. George bad been a widower since 1936 and had no children. He worked for the Dc Vilbiss Mfg. Co, and lived with his dad, who at­tended Xotrc Dame in 1893-94. ED HAGERTY and BILL CLf\RKE were pallbearers. George roomed with FRANK SLOAX (deceased) and JACK A\TX­GERTER at X. D. I know of no one who was more interested in the Class oE '28 than was George. He attended all our reunions and never failed mc when I called upon him for news. He reported regularly on classmates attending the spring football game at X.D. I last saw Buzz at our '23 cocktail party a year ago. I have in my large file of offers of assistance from classmates, a 
. ^fIch. Capt- George O'Malley, USN, '30, had a recent private audience with His Holiness Pope REGAN, WTLLUM J., 2966 W. Ninth St., Los 
Pius XII. Others in the group include Admiral Chester Ward, USN, Capt- Edward Ma-
Angeles, Calif. 

gcnnis, USN, Mrs. George A. Sullivan and Capt. Sullivan, USN, 0*MalIey has a son 
ROHWXR, ENLMETT T., General Delivery, Hous­ton, Texas who is a member of Notre Dame's freshman class. 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
letter Irom George dated May 17 offering to Iiclp 
on our 30-year reunion and indicating how much 
he was looking forward to it in June 1958. 
JAMES C. GIVREX, who was with our class 
from 1924 to 1925, died suddenly on September 
18, 1954, at his summer home in ^Vest Harwich, 
Mass. He was president and treasurer of E. J. 
Civrcn SIioc Company of Rockland, Mass. He was 
wcU known as a shoe manufacturer. He is sur­
vived by liis mother, his wife, and two daughters. 
I wish to extend our sympatliy to LOU XORMAX 
and FR.\NCIS COXNERS on the death of tlieir 

mothers. 
FATHER AXDY MULRE.\XEY, C^.C , offered 
a Mass for the deceased members of the Class on 

Xovcmber 24 and FATHER JIM McSHAXE, S.J., 
on December 15. 
I had a ver>' pleasant surprise when I stopped in 
the Sugar Room of the Vermont Hotel in Burling­

ton, Vt., recently and met L-ARRY CULLIXEY 
who was in town on a bank examination job. Larry 
is an examiner for the Fcdera. Deposit Insurance 
Corp. specializing on trust department examina­
tions. Larr\- has five children, the ohiest being in 

high school. He sees EUGEXE MORIART\' reg­
ularly in Willimantic, Conn. We enjoved talking 
to ART MITIGUY who is treasurer of the Burl­

ington Drug Co. in Burlington, Vt. Art has three 
children, the youngest being 22 years of age. He 
promised to return for our 30th year reunion in 
June. 
Another enjoj-able evening was spent with AfAX GAUTHIER of Manchester, N. H., whom I mvt unexpectedly in Concord, X. II. Max. wiio started with our class In 1924, did not finisli until 1929 because he dropped out one year because of illness. He lias been with Internal Revenue Service for a number of years and has four children. Max lias scr\-ed for some time as X'otrc Dame Foundation Governor for Xcw Hampshire. He was inquiring about his old roommate, BILL ARMIX' who is now in Alabama, and BILL LE.\HY, aVRROLL PIXCKLY, GEORGE COURY, L.\RRY CUL­LIXEY and JOE GER.VGHT\'. 
We now have anotlier '28 man in the toll road 

program. JOHX QVRROLL of Springfield, 111.. 
was appointed to the Illinois Toll Highway Com­
mission .•\dvisor\' Board in October, 1955 and scr\-cd 
as vice-chairman for that term. He was recently 
reappointed Cor another two year term. John is 
now executive secretar>* of the Weaver Mfg. Co. in 
Springfield after retiring because of illness from 
highway construction. BOB KIRBY is vice-chair­
man of the Indiana Toll Road Commission. Bob 
is also vice-president of the Indianapolis Baseball 
Club. JLM SHOCKXESSY, as you know, did an 
outstanding job as chairman of the Ohio Turnpike 
Commission, Incidentally, I understand that Jim 
was in Europe for a part of the summer and while 
there had an audience with the Holy Father. 
I stopped to sec BILL 0*IL\RA in Manchester, Conn., recently. Bill has been with the Connecti­cut Power Co. in Middletown. Conn., for 30 years. I was pleased to meet his wife. Bill has two chil­dren and is now a grandfather. I also visited the Robinson School in West Hartford. Conn., which is operated by JOHX ROBIXSOX. Tlicre are over 200 students in this school. John has five children, including twins. i\s you know. John served as Connecticut State Director of Selective Service during the war. 
HOWIE PHALIX invited me to have breakfast with him recently when he was in Boston on busi­ness. Howie, as you know is executive vice-presi­dent and general sales manager of the Field Enter­prises Educational Corp. He is also vice-president of the World Book - Cliildcraft Ltd., Toronto, Canada. Howie reported that the 1928 class nominating committee had held their second meet­ing in Chicago recently and liad completed a slate of oiriccrs. He TOcniioncd that BILL K.E:\RXEY is in Europe. Howie expects to go to Europe in February*. 
FATHER .MARK FiTZGER.\LD, CS.C , visited us in X'^ovcmbcr while he was attending an industrial relations meeting at M.I.T. Father Mark will give the Presidential address on "Xational Resources and Public Policy" at the Catholic Economic As­sociation meeting in Philadelphia on December 27-28. I am presenting a paper at that meeting on "The Migrant Worker Today." BILL JONES reports that the Labor Day sermon given by Father Fitzgerald in the Cathedral in Washington, D. C. was very well received. 
Tlte following classmates will be celebrating their 25th wedding anniversary during the first six months of 1958: HAROLD CVXAVAX (January* 2). JOE HILGER (April 17), JOHX SHEEDY (May 10), 
•\\'^L LE.\HY (May 20), BERXARD LOEFFLER (June 10), J. R. SIMOXIX (June 22), CARL 
MIAMI—An award was presented at the homecoming game by the Notre Dame Club of Miami to Archbishop Curlcy High School. (Left to right) Father Bernard McCafferty, principal of the schooFs 1956 State Catholic grid champs; Coach Vari; Dom Lettiere; Jim Maroon; Larrj- ^V'iIson; and Jack Hayes. Charles E. Maher, club vice-president, presented the awards. 
PETTERSCH (June) and JACOB GILBERT (June 
28). JOHX I^\RSEX will be celebrating his 30th 
year wedding anniversar>' on June 4, two days 
before our reunion. Please let me know if there 
are others to be added to this list. 
The latest count on grandchildren indicates that JOE DOYLE with 7. JOHN (RED) LAHEY with 
6. ED QUI.XX and ED McCL.\RXOX with 5, and TO.M JOXES with 4, lead the procession, based on returns received during Xovcmber to my ques­tionnaire, BOB KIRBY reports "two on runway— two in hangar." Each of the following luis three 
•,'randchildrcn: LOUIS BUCKLEY, ART CANTY, ROBERT EVAXS, GEO. H.VXEY, OSKAR RUST and L.\RRY STADLER. Those with two urand­children include JOE BREIG, JOHX CARROLL, EUGEXE FARRELL, HEXRY MASSM.AX, SYL­VESTER MOBILY and SWEDE SCHROEDER. BILL BROWX, EUGEXE O'BRIEX, BILL O'HARA, COL. LEO SCHULTHEIS and XORB SEIDEXSTICKER report they each have one grandchild. 
I haven't much news regarding children. JOHN' LEITZIXGER with 11 children and MIKE HOG.\X with 9 seem to continue at the head of the class. The classmate with the youngest child, as far as I am aware, is MARTI.X RIXT whose fourth child was born June 4, 1956. Please advise if there arc others with younger children. BILL O^XEILL's youngest of five is two years old and MIKE RICK's youngest of six is four years old. I would like to get a complete list of those who had children since our 25th year reunion. 
Tlianks to the assistance of Irene Trippel, sccre­tar>' to JOHX CACKLEY, I am able to give you our periodic report on classmates with sons at Xoirc Dame. DR. MARCUS FARRELL, DOX CORBETT, JOHX -McMAHOX (deceased), DICK PHEL.AX', each have two sons at X'otre Dame this vear. Classmates with one son at X*otre Dame are: jIM ALLAX, JOE BAIRLEY, FRAXK BEGGAN (deceased), BER.XIE BIRD, RODGER BRESLIX, JACK C\XIZ.VRO, JOHX CARLIX, FR^\XK CRE.\DOX, BILL CROXIX. E.\IMET DOH^VXY, BILL DOWDALL, CHRISTIE FL.\X^\G.AX, BOB GRAHAM, HEXRY HASLEY, JOE HER­BERT (deceased), JOE HILGER, GUS JEXKIXS, BILL KE.ARNEY, JLM KE-AR.XS, JOHX LEITZ­IXGER, GER.ALD LUD\VIG, ED McKEOWX, HEXRY MASSM.AX, JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, ED MOWERY, ORVILLE MURCH, ED PHILBIX, 
ROX RICH, TO.M RODGERS. LEO R02UM. GEORGE SCHEUER, CHARLES SCHUSSLER, CHARLES TOPPIXG, ^VALTER TOUSSAINT, and DICK TR^XXT. 
My periodic roundup of where daughters of *28 men are in college is as follows: ifarygtove, JOSEPH B.AIRLEY; St. Mary's, JOSEPH BAIR­LEY, ALBERT DAVIS, RAY LUSSO.X, JOE HILGER and ED McKEO\VX; Oneonta State Teachers, EDAHX BRE-XX.VX; Clarke. BILL BROWX; Ursilinc College, JOHX BUSCHE­.MEYER; Universitv of Buffalo. BILL DO\\T)ALL; St. .Mar>-'s of Sprincs, JOHX FO.VF.AXA; .Mills College, JACOB GILBERT; Queens College. BOB H.V.MILTOX; Michigan University, ^V^t. KOXOP; College of St. Rose, ED McCL.ARXOX; Xewton College of the Sacred Heart. HE.XRY .Mx\SSM.AX; Ohio State, JOHX R. MURPHY; St. Catherines, EUGEXE O'BRIEX and FR.AXCIS SCHROEDER; Columbia, Manhattanville and Beatunont, BILL O'XEILL; Loyola U., MIKE RICKS; Regis Col­lege. .M.VX GAUTHIER; Penn State, JOHN LEITZIXGER; Universitv of Oregon, JOE E. MORRISSEY; Mar.- Manse College, GER^\LD SHEIBLEY; Universitv of Detroit, JOSEPH SI­MOXIX; Manhattanville, WILLIAM CROXIX; Our Lady of Cincinnati, JOSEPH MORRISSEY. 
Classmates w-ith sons at other than Notre Dame include the following: Bellarmine, JOHN BUSCHE­MEYER; ChoWnard Art Institute, ART C\X"n*; St. Peter's, EUGENE FARRELL; Purdue, ROX RICH and two sons of MIKE HOG.VX; Universitv of Idaho, TOM JOXES; Cincinnati U., BILL KO.XOP; Loyola, R/\Y LUSSOX; GcorgetouTi, and Princeton, HERB McC\BE; Wayne State. ED McCL/VRXOX; Mount San Antonio College, HAR­OLD .MILLER; Minn. U., EUGEXE O'BRIEN; Han.-ard, \S'M. O'NEILL, Western Reser-e, NORB SEIDEXSTICKER; Michigan U., ROY WORDEN; Marquette, VINCENT HENRY, Assumption Col­lege. Af/VX GAUTHIER, Davton U.. JOHN LEFTZINGER; Detroit U., GERALD SHEIBLEY; St. John's Law School, KEN'XETH POWER; St. Joseph's College, JEROME DE CLERCQ; Northern Illinois U., JOHX L.\HEY; St. Louis U. and St. .Mark's U., ED DE.\X. 
The following classmates have children in the religious life in college: JOE BREIG's daughter. Sister Joseph Mary at Scton Hill; BILL BROWN's daughter at St. Clara's no\^tiate; PAUL FETTIG 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 43 
has a ion at St. Joseph's Seminary in Rensellear; MIKE RICK's sun is at Moreau Seminary. 
May I make an appeal to children of classmates, as well as their dads, to drop me a line giving mc the necessary information to make this list more complete. 
The second annual '28 class cocktail party at the Morris Inn after the Pitt game was a great suc­cess. (Ed. Xoic: Sec photo, this issue.) Those in attendance who were also present at our party a vear ago include JOE HILGER, JOE SIORRISSEY, JIM ALLAN, CHARLIE SCHUESSLER, JOE DORA.V, BILL MURPHY, AUGIE GRAMS, JIM CANIZARO, FRA.\K CRE.ADO.\, JOHN FRED­ERICK, ED R;\FTER, and your class secretary. In addition to these old timers, the following at­tended the parlv: NEIL .\MIOT, JOHN IGOE, JOHN CARROLL, OSKAR RUST, HENRY HASLEY, BILL KE.4R.NEY, JOE LANGTON, JOE GRIFFLV, BILL JONES, BOB .MOHLiUN, DICK QUINLV.\, ED. .McKEOWN, FATHER ANDY MULREANY, C.S.C., VINCE WALSH, AL SCHNURR, and JOE N.ASH. Our favorite prof, PAUL FENLON, joined its again this year, \Vc were also pleased to have two class secretaries from other classes, JOHN HURLEY, '25, and CLARENCE RUDDY, '27. It was great having the wives attend the cocktail party. They all indi­cated interest in the class and in this column. 
.•\n incomplete round-up of those attending other games this year include the following: All games, BOB KIRBY, JOE MORRISSEY, JOHN WOULFE and ED .McKEO^W; all home games, JI.M ALLAN, JOHN VOEDISCH, F.i^THER MULRE.4NY, ROY WORDE.\, FLOYD SEARER, and FRANCIS BROWN; Purdue, JUDGE BOB GRANT, VINCE WALSH, RON RICH, MIKE RICKS, JOE HILGER and DICK GREEN; Indiana, PAUL BRAtJNSDORF, GREG HOLBROCK, JACK C.ANIZARO, ALBERT DAVIS, JOHN IGOE, BILL KEARNEY, GERALD LUDWIG, RAY LUSSON and LEO WALSH; Army, DR. FRANK HEG­ARTY, CYP SPORL, MAURICE CONLEY, GENE FARRELL, FRANCIS CONNORS, JACK WLN'GERTER, FLOYD SEARER, BER.NIE CAREER, ED McCLARNON, JACOB GILBERT, JOHN LErrZI.VGER, JOE HANEY, BILL JONES, BILL HURLEY, GEO. KELLEV, HERB Mc-CABE, HENRY MASSMAN, L.-VRRY STADLER; Naiy, ALBERT DA\aS, BILL DOU-DALL, Judge BOB GRANT, JOE HILGER, BILL KEARNEY, GERALD LUDWIG, JERO.ME DE CLERCQ, .MIKE RICKS, JUDGE JOHN LYONS, JOHN RODGERS, JOHN R. MURPHY, FRED PFORTNER, HOM E PHALIN, LEO WALSH; Michigan Slate, GERALD LUDWIG, DON RAU, LEO ^\'ALSH, JEROME DE CLERCQ, JIM WHtTE, JOHN VOEDISCH; Oklahoma, HENRY -MASSMAN and HOWIE PHALIN; Iowa, JOE BRAUNSDORF, JACK aiNIZARO, ALBERT D.AVIS, JACOB GILBERT, JOE HILGER, JOHN IGOE, GREG HOLBROCK, JUDGE JOHN LYONS, HENRY M.«SM.AN and JIM 'WHrrE; Southern California, JUDGE GRANX JACK CANIZARO, JOE HILGER, HOWIE PH.\LIN, 
LEO ROZUM and LEO WALSH; Southern 
Methodist, Ci'P SPORL. In addition to those 
listed as attending the cocktail party, the following 
attended the Pitt game; FRED PFORTNER, JIM 
WHrrE, GERALD LUDWG, JUDGE LYONS, 
LOU NOR.MAN and DR. FRANK HEGARTY. 
We have spent several pleasant evenings with JOHN HERBERT and his family since we have been in Boston. Wc called John's old roommate ART GLEASON in Akron one evening. John has two children, ages 10 and 12. He is a salesman with the WU & Baumcr Candle Company, Inc. and travels in Northern New England. I have talked to two other fellow classmates in Boston, JOHN EGAN, who is with Wm. Filene's, and TI.\f TOOMEY, '30, who is with the American Casualty Insurance Co. Tim is still a badielor. 
Our '28 cocktail party after the Pitt game gave me the opportunity to see some fellows on whom we have not had a report in some time. OSKAR RUST, '29, who started with our class in 1925, is associated with his son in The Fair Store in Grecnsburg, Ind. Oskar has five children, two of whom arc graduates of Notre Dame. His daughter is Sister Paul Marie, O.S.B., R.N., and his son is Brother John, a Dominican Novice at Somerset, Ohio. NEIL AMIOT is owner of the Amiot Cleaners in Wyandotte, Midi. 
I am pleased to be able to give you below a 
number of additional names which have not ap­
peared in the column for some time. 
BILL DOWDALL reports that BILL (Albion) GRIFFIN of Bethlehem, Pa., has five boys, one at ND and another at Yale. Bill, as you know, is president of the Federal ^larket Co. in Buffalo. 

44 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
HAROLD F. TEHAN, '48 
Few contemporary success stories could match the rocket rise of Hal Tehan, recently named Vice President for Administration of the Haggar Com­pany, Dallas, Texas. He jomed the Haggar organization on October 16, 1949, as assistant to the credit manager. Two years later he became credit man­ager, then traffic manager, and during the year before his latest promotion he was office and personnel manager of the firm, a leader in the clothing in­dustr}'. 
Hal was bom and educated in Ster­ling, 111. He left Notre Dame after two years for army service in the Euro­pean theater with the Cryptographic unit of the 104th Infantry. Returning in 1945, he entered the Law School and after graduation worked for a year with the Notre Dame Foundation. 
In addition to being a dynamic presi­dent of the Notre Dame Club of Dallas and a third-degree Knight of Colum­bus. Hal is a civic leader with a record of active participation in several school and hospital campaigns in Dallas. He is married to the former Joan Hiss of South Bend and has three children, Maureen, age seven; Timothy, five, and Brian, three. 
Edmund R. Haggar, '38, a member 
of the Alumni Association Board of Di­
rectors, is president of the Haggar 
Company. J. M. Haggar and J. M. 
Haggar, Jr., '45, are board chairman 
and secretarj'-treasurer respectively. 
FATHER GEORGE BE.\AGLIA, CS.C. is Presi­dent of King's College, Wilkes-Barrc, Pa. 
MAURICE CONLEV was re-elected City Judge for Fulton, N. Y., in November for another four-year term by endorsement of all political parties. Maurice has served in this capacity since 1941. 
JOE DEBOTT reports from Geneva, N. V., where he is assistant cashier of the Gene\'a Federal Savings, that he saw TOM Cj\NTY recently. Tom is in the insurance business in Batavia. Tom's only daughter, after attending St. Mary's College, entered the Franciscan Order this fall. Joe, who is still a bachelor, tells me that "SWEDE" SCHROEDER had already contacted him about the reunion in June. Swede oftcred to give Joe special delivery service in Swede's plane to and from the reunion. 
JI.M DEVLIN is manager of the Ohio Bureau ol Unemployment Compensation in the Dayton. Ohio area. He is married and has two young children. JOE DOYLE is with the Wisconsin State Employment Service in LaCrossc. Wis. 'Joe has four children. DR. FRiVNCIS FORD is a physician and surgeon practicing in Billings, Montana. Frank has three children. We is surgeon for the N. P. Railroad. Incidentally, DR. FR,\NK HEGARTY presented a paper on "Industrial Dermatoses" at the annual meeting of the /\ssociation of Ph^'sicians and Surgeons of the Pcnn. R.R. JACOB GILBERT, who is in real estate management in Columbus. Ohio, served as a delegate to the World Zionist Congress in Israel this year. BOB HAMILTON, who is w-Ith Pan-.'\merican World Airways, spent three months recently at their guided missiles range division at Cocoa, Fla.. where he was assigned to establish logistics supply procedures for the new "space-travel" era. GEORGE HANEY is president and manager of the Hancy School Furniture Co. in Grand Rapids, Mich. He has three children. His son graduated from N. D. in June. 
MIKE HOG.AN, who is a pharmacbt with the Medical Arts' Supply Corp. in Fort Wayne, has submitted an application for membership in the Alumni Association for W.A\'NE BUSH.MAN, his Freshman Hall roommate. Wayne, who went to St. John's University in Brooklyn after being with us our freshman year, is a research engineer with International Harvester in Fort Wayne. He has two children. Please let me know of other fel­lows who were with our class, but who are not on our mailing list. 
BILL KONOP has been transferred to Cincinnati where he is tax attorney for the A. T. & T. Co. JOE LANGTON is going into business for himself after Jan. I, 1958. His company will be the Lang-ton Auto Supply Co. in Peoria, III. GEORGE LEPPIG is a lieutenant colonel. U. S. Marine Corps in Miami, Fla., at the Marine Corps .\ir Station. George has two young children. ADRIAN LOPEZ is owner of the Volilant Publishing Corp., 21 West 2Gth St., New York City, Adrian has two sons. GERALD LUDWIG is \'icc-President for Engineering with the Latex Corp., Inc., School­craft, Mich. 
RAY LUSSON, who is a teacher and registrar in the Chicago Public School System, is active in promoting our 30.vcar reunion. He reports that JOE MADDEN. JIM KEARNES, ED FINN and BERNIE SCHUH will attend. Ray inquired about .AL MAHAR of New York. He also asks whether he is the onlv '28 man married by a classmate. Rav was married bv REV. CH.AS. F. H;\MEL, CS.C. 
TOM MAHON, special agent. Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. in St. Paul and past State Deputy of the K. of C. in Minnesota writes: "Look at all the EVANS of Vicksburg in the Columbia magazine, Nov. 1957, page 27. second picture from top." JOHN LEFTZINGER had Democratic National Committee Chairman P.AUL BUTLER as an overnight guest when be was in Clearfield. Pa., for a Democratic rally. JOHN MURPHY wrhcs from Columbus. Ohio, that he met JOHN BLASIUS from Logan, Ohio, who was in Morrissey-sub when w-c were juniors at ND. He is single and is w-lth one of the oil companies engaged in overseas transportation. PHILIP O'CONNOR, a service supervisor, Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester. N. Y.. reports that DR. JOSEPH P.ATRICK SULLU'AN, '29, and his family are back in this country after many years with the 
U. S. Public Health Service in Europe. His present assignment is at the Sioux Sanatorium. Rapid City. South Dakota. JOHN SEITER, after suffering a coronary, sold his hardware business and returned to teaching science in the Lexington, Mo,, high school. LAURENCE STADLER is president and genera! manager of the Superior Bronze Corp., Erie, Pa. ROY WORDEN, who is an ardiitect in South Bend, has five children. He remarried last 

I year. JOHN VOEDISCH is a tool, die and I machinery representative with Jacobson & Daw, 
• Chicago, III. RICHARD McCLURE, who was with J our class in 1924-25, has retired from the city of I Philadelphia police department after 22 years of I sen-ice. He is now cliief of police in the Borough I of Collcgeville, Collegcville, Pa. He lias two cliil­
drcn, ages 8 and 6. Dick has a small farm and is a horse and dog fancier. 
VIC FISCHER of Brightwaters, X. Y., is a liaison engineer in highway construction with the New York Dcpt. of Public Works. Vic who lias two sons, ages 9 and 12, is a widower. GERALD SHEIBLEY is head of tlie packaging labo­ratory at the Rossford Ordnance Deport in Toledo, Ohio. Gerald has three children, ages 17 to 22. Gerald has sen--ed as District Deputy of the 
K. of C. and President of the Eagles. JOE E. MORRISSEV is the office manager of the Coos Bay Iron Works, 896 Front St., Coos Bay, Oregon. Joe has three children, ages 14 to 19. JERRY DE CLERCQ is branch manager, Fleishman Divi­sion of Standard Brands, Inc., in Detroit. Jerry's daughter is Sister Catherine Camille. 
KENNETH POWER is deputy county clerk in Rochester, N. Y. He has three boys, ages 14 lo 
28. Kenneth is past president of the Rochester Alumni Association and a state committeeman and an executive committeeman of the Republican party. VINCE PENOTE is president and general manager of the Cleveland Trencher Co. They make ex-ca\'ators for use in digging for all kinds of pipe­lines. Vince also has a foreign car agenc>-, "Jaguar-Cleveland Motors, Inc.*' This agency is now the distributor for Ohio for Jaguars, Alfa-Romco. He also has two retail outlets in Cleveland retailing practically all leading makes oE imported cars. JOHN J. REIDY, '27, is associated with Vince at the Cleveland Trencher Co. Vince said he would like to hear from JOHN GAUGHAN. Unfortu­nately, John's mail has been returned unclaimed. Can anyone give us his address? 
CHARLES T. SCHLEGEL has his o%vn business OS a manufacturers* agent in Dearborn, Midi. Charlie has three sons, ages 16 to 22. GREG HOLBROCK who was with our Class in our freshman year is a lawyer in Hamilton, Ohio. He scr\*cd as a member of the U. S. House of Rep­resentatives in 1941 and 1942. Greg has served as Secretary and Chairman of the Democratic Count>' Committee for 10 years; he was a presidential elector from Ohio in 1948, and t^-as a delegate to two Democratic National Conventions. He is also a past exalted ruler of the B. P. O. E., a past state and regional governor, and state president of 
L. O. O. M. Greg has three children, ages 12 to 17. 
I noticed in the Oct. 15 issue of LOOK the fol­lowing apt reference, "J.-VCK LAVELLE—football scout, speaker, wit and typically devout N. D. alumnus.'* I hope we will have Jack with us as a toastmaster again at our 30th year reunion. 
The interest and enthusiasm expressed over our 30-year reunion to be held on June 6, 7 and 8, 1958, has exceeded all of my expectations. I ap­preciate the many letters received wth offers to help on reunion work. As indicated above, many classmates, such as SWEDE SCHROEDER and RAY LUSSON, arc making good use of the class roster sent lo all of you by the Alumni Office In September by contacting classmates to arrange to meet them at the reunion. The committees an­nounced in FRANK CREADON's October 14 letter arc going to work with even greater fer\-or tlian they did Eve years ago. I had an excellent re­sponse to my November 2 letter for biographical data and ne\\*s, as indicated by this column. I would like to hear, from those who still have my letter on their desks. 
Our Treasurer JACK SHEEDY, asked me to thank the classmates who have sent contributions to him in response to his letter of November 14. These funds will help defray the expenses of our mailings, stationer^-, and postage to send out pro­motional materials for the reunion. OfTerings for masses for deceased classmates which are always arranged as soon as we are informed of death also comes frcm the class treasury'. Those who have not yet contributed to the class treasury arc urged to uTite to JACK SHEEDY at once at 1U8 Farmers Bank BIdg., Pittsburg 22, Pa. I also want to thank the many classmates who have offered to pick up the tab for my mailings. 
As of November 23, over sLx months prior to the reunion, I have already been advised that the fol­lowing plan to attend our 30th year reunion: 
Jim Allan, Joseph Bairley, Joseph Braunsdorf, Joseph Brclg, Edwin F. Brcnnan, Francis E. Brown, William E. Brown, Louis Buckley, John Busche­meyer, Wayne Bushman, James Canizaro, Arthur Canty, Vince Carney, Lester Carrig, John Carroll, 
DAVID R. CONDON, '45 

A veteran sports writer for the Chicago Tribune, Dave Condon is now a columnistj having conducted the hal­lowed column "In the Wake of the News" since the death of the beloved Arch Ward, '23, in July, 1955. "The Wake" is America's oldest continuous sports column. 
Dave started in journalism on the Las Vegas (New Mexico) Daily Optic in his home town. At Notre Dame he was editor of the Sch olastic, con­tributed to Scrip and was campus cor­respondent for the South Bend Trib­une. He continued with the South Bend daily after graduation before going to the "World's Greatest News­paper." 
Stories of Dave's on the Notre Dame-Southern Cal game and the Milwaukee Braves were anthologized in the "Best Sports Stories" books of 1955 and 1956, in which years he also won prizes for best bowling stories in national contest sponsored by the American Bowling Congress. 
Tribune stories have taken Dave to many of the states, to England, Ireland, France and Germany. His non-sports assignments have included stories on Father Hesburgh, Queen Elizabeth II and Cardinal Stritch and a biography of comedians Olson and Johnson. His is a familiar name in national mag­azines and around the banquet circuit. 
Dave was married in the Log Chapel and now has six children, five girls and a boy. 
Maurice Conley, Francis Connors, Bill Cronin, John Crowley, Matthew Cullen, Albert Davis, Jerome De Clcrcq, Ed Dean, Bill Dowdall, Robert Evans, Eugene Farrell, Leo Fetttg, John fontana, Frank Galardy, Peter Gallagher, Bernard Garber, Joseph Geraghty, Jacob Gilbert, Robert Grant, Richard A. Greene, Ed Hagerty, Bob Hamilton, George Haney, Joseph Hancy, Frank Hegarty, Vincent Henry, John Herbert, Joe Hilger, Mike Hogan, Greg Holbrock, Bill Hurley, John Igoe, Hudson Jeffer>-s, Bill Jones, Tom Jones, Bill Kearney, Ed Kcenan, George Kelley, Bob Kirby, Bill KinWn, Bill Konop, Bert Korzen, Dave Krembs, John Lahey, Joe Langton, Tom LavcUe, John Lcitiinger, George Lcppig, Adrian Lopez, Gerald Ludwig, Ray Lusson, John Lyons, Herbert McCabe, Richard McClurc, Gerald McGill, Ed McKeown, Rev. James McShane, S.J., Tom Mahon, Henr>- Massman, Harold Miller, Sylvester Mobily, Ray Mock, Joe Morrissey, Rev. Andrew Mulreany, C.S.C., John R. Murphy, Louis Norman, Eugene O'Brien, Philip O'Connor, William O'Neill, Vincent Pcnote, Fred Pfortner, Howard Phalin, Kenneth T. Power, Richard Quinlan, Don Rau, Ronald Rich, Mike Ricks, Martin Rini, John Rodgers, Charles Schlcgel, Alfred Schnurr, Francis Schrocder, Col. I.co Schulthcis, Floyd Searer, Norb Seidenstickcr, John Selter, John Shecdy, Gerald Shieblc^*, James Shocknessy, Joseph Simonin, C>*prian Sporl, Laurence Stadler, John Voediscb, Leo Walsh, Vincent Walsh, Jim White, John Wingcrter, Roy Worden, John Woulfe, and Arthur Zimmerman. 
COL. LEO J. SCHULTHEIS. U. S. Army Attache at the American Embassy in Vientiane, Laos, is coming the greatest distance for the re­union based on reports received on November 30. 
If your name Is not on this list and you have not advised mc since November 23 that you will attend, please drop me a note Immediately. 
192 9 La^^cnce F. Stauder 
Engineering Btulding 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

On the occasion of the return of the football team from Norman, Oklahoma, to the South Bend airport and to the Notre Dame campus only a few hours after that happy victory, your secretary with ^/ifc, Margaret, and son, Larry, age 13, had the pleasure of a %isit %v-ith FATHER JOE B.\RRY, C.S.C., '29, chaplain of this year's team. He had the highest praise for the members of this year's squad. 
Present and sharing the joy of this return to the campus ^^"as the president of the Class of *29, FRANCIS JONES with his wife Mary Ann and son Danny. Francis saw the Army game earlier in the season but even that comeback will have to make room for recounting what this team did to a highly favored, good Oklahoma team. Francis was recently elected to the Board of Directors of Wells Aluminum Corporation and Wells Manufactur­ing Co., Inc. 
Congratulations to JOHN T. BURKE, '29, Spot­light Alumnus in the October Issue of the Alumnus. We trust that all saw that write-up (page 37). By the way, the editor of the Alumnus is inter­ested in having nominations from each ol you, of classmates you think descrying of future spotlight citation. 
BOB VOGLEWEDE, C.P.A., wrote the following letter to this column last September. 
'*Your note of August 16 which was directed to former addresses of mine in Minneapolis and Seattle finally reached me here In Detroit (my present residence) on August 25. Hence I could not comply ^vith your request to meet the next Alumnus deadline. 
" I was transferred to Detroit from Seattle about a year ago by Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., the top accounting firm In the world, (being a partner may make me a bit prejudiced) and am glad to be back in the Middle West. 
"BOB TROTTER and KARL >L\RTERSTECK, who I understand run the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co. of CMcago, are frequent visitors in Detroit and I have seen them recently. I have also seen FRANK CROWE who is associated with a plaso'c firm here and ED CROU'E (1927) who heads up the C.V.O. here. Also LOU CONROV (1927) of basketball fame who is an ofBdal of Sfichigan Bell Telephone Co. I have also talked with DR. ED DRAVES of the Class of 1931 who is a resident physician at Providence Hospital here. Ed asked for MIKE HOGAN, BOB EGGE.MAN, and GEORGE FINK (all of Fort Wayne). These men ^vill be pleased to know that Ed's motheTj 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 2958 45 
with whom ihcy used to board at 818 Minor Street in South Bend, is living here with Ed. 
"While I was in Seattle I saw BILL SIDEN­FADDEX (1929) several times. Bill as you know heads up a large propane gas company on the coast. 
"My eldest son Bob, Jr., entered the Jesuit semi­nary- at Milford, Ohio on August 8. 
*'Larr^•, I could rattle on for a long time but I know I have already given you more tlian you can use. I would like you to note my change of address to 3521 Sunnvdale, Birmingham, Mich, just in case JOE LENIHAX, LOU REG;\X, or BOB SCHULZE might be interested." 
The '*Xews of tlie Class of '29 Stimulatcr" a form mailed to one-fourth of the da^s, has brought gratifying response. Your sccretar>* thanks those who replied. \Vc trust that JOHN CACKLEY can give us suflident space in this issue to use all of our material, if not wc will use the balance (and what arrives in the meantime) in our next issue. If you haven't replied, or have something to add, please write now! If you haven't received a form write an>^vav. 
EDWARD J. DELEHANT\', M.D., psycliiatrist, Ml Vernon Countr>- Club, Golden, Colorado •vvTitcs that Ed., Jr., age 23 is a student at Colorado U. His daughter Carolyn is now 22. Any grand­children, doctor? "One on the drafting board." He would like to hear from any of the old Bron­sonites of '27-'29. He relays tlie news that BOB DICK, '29, of Denver made front page news when he rushed out to light a candle after the Oklahoma game. Tliat is all I know about that story. 
JOE KRfVKER, vice-president and manager, Orr Shaw Oil Corp., Akron, Ohio, writes that he and ^vifc Betty have t^vo sons in Cleveland Seminary, one to be ordained in May, 1959. Still a prospect for Notre Dame is son Jerr>*. Betty Schorr and Mar>' arc tlieir daughters; and grandson Joe their new grandson. Cramps saw the Pittsburgh and Navy games. He ^vould like to hear from CLAR­ENCE JANS, BILL BRADSHAW and JOHN O'CONNOR. 
L. SPALDING CLEMENT writes from Owens­boro, Ky., where he has been special investigator and auditor with the Kentucky Department of Revenue for the past ten years. His daughter, 24, is Mrs. William Ditto, son La Vega is now age 22. His tlirce granddaughters are age three, two, and one. He attended U. of Kentucky for a short course in higher accounting and had tlic pleasure of visiting P.VUL "BUD" CL/\RK a couple of evenings. Bud lives in Lexington where he owns and operates a drug store. Ifc occasionally sees PHIL TOMPKINS, manager. Hart's Drug Co., in Evansvillc, Ind, He would like to hear from JAMES TOBIN, CARL WOLFR^\M, JIM BR^VDY, BILL BUTLER, J. N. FLi\NAGAN and JACK ELDER. 

In reply to the query "My family (names and ages) (any grandchildren?)" FATHER JAMES EDWARD NORTON, C.S.C., Vice-President for Student .\ffairs, replies "Confirmed bachelor." Many of you saw Father Norton on his recent trip to the Army game and Xc\v York. 
SYLVESTER J. DOUGHERT\^ chief metal­lurgist, Welrton Steel Co., writes from Stcubcnville, Ohio, that he and wife Florence have daughters .•\nn Jane. 19, a sophomore in nursing at Mt. St, Joseph College, Cincinnati, and Louise age 16. "Doc" saw JOE LENIHAN, '29, in a turnpike restaurant this summer as they were en route to New York and Notre Dame respectively. Doc continues as foIIow*s: 
"Dear Larry: Nice to hear from you. My con­tacts have been few and far between recently, although I believe I have run into as many of the bo>-s as anv one else down through the years. I used to run into TO.M MAHAFFEY, '29, and JOE TIMLIN in Scar^dale, New York, RED CURRY, '29. at Kings Point, L. L, JOHN BURKE, JOHN MORAN and GERRY CROWLEY in Boston. I tried to contact PETE MORG/\N, '29, by phone once and he was awav for the sum­mer. KARL .MARTERSTECK at Cleveland isn't too far away. I bump into ^V.\LT MULFLUR oc­casionally at Iron and Steel Institute meetings. Walt is manager of .Mgoma Steel Company's Strip Mill in Sault Stc. Mane, Canada. 
"My Notre Dame contact in this area is the Ohio Vallo* N. D. Club where I run into FRANCIS A\ALL.\CE, BUTCH NIE-MIC, BULL POLISKEY, the YE/\GER bo>-s, the SARGUS bovs, GEORGE and ED, TO.M JORDAN, '3 . and brothers, DOC FLOOD, *37, and a number of younger N. D. men. 
"Best of luck, Larr>', I did not expect to write this mucli." 
FRED J. FAUST, 4517 Edmonds Ave., Dallas, Texas, regional counsel, Small Bvisincss Adminis­tration for Stales of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana since 1954, reports Ruth (wife) and cliildren Ruth Ann (Mrs. Hamncr since Januar>'— now living in Melbourne, Fla.), son Fred, Jr., 17, who plans to enter U. of Texas next year and son Bill, n . 
JOHN T. (JACK) KEARNS, City Engineer, Champalne, 111., and wife Ruth have four children, son John, 21, a senior A.B. at Notre Dame (whose "Back Page" feature articles in the Scliolastic your class sccrctar>' reads and highly recommends), daughter Anne, 18, a freshman at St. Mar>-'s, Notre Dame, son Jimmy, 13, and daughter Rose-mar>-, 10. Jack saw the Indiana and the Navy games. 
PETE MORG.-VN who last year was appointed head track coacli at Princeton writes that Pete II Is now 16 and a September '59 prospect for Notre Dame. Pete's daughters arc Judy, 17, and Felice, age II. Pete would like to hear from BILL and JOHN BRO^VN, BILL BYRNE and TOM QUIGLEY. 
J. WALTER GREER, native of Carey, Ohio, was back there, we regret to say, for his father's funeral last July. CLAIR BUVCKALL from nearby Balti­more, Ohio, who recently lost both of his parents was an understanding consoling friend. Your class Joins In expressing their sympathy to both of you. Wall, wife Jane and Lucille, 15, Margaret, 12, live In Falls Church, Virginia. Walter is electronics engineer with Bureau of Ships, Na\y Dept. Walt and Jane saw and enjoyed the Anny game. 
JOHN F. P. BURKE treated Mrs. Burke and daughters Mar>*, 19, a junior at Anna Marie Col­lege, Paxton, Sfass,, Carroll, 17, and Sally, 15, to a trip to the Army-Nolrc Dame game. They and Patrick, a freshman in Ca\*anaugh Hall, all rooted 
Members of the 1928 Class gathered at the Alorris Inn following the Pitt game, to talk over plans for their 30th reunion in June and.to renew friendships. Back row (standing) left to right: James T. Canizaro, James Allan, Oskar Rust, Father Mark Fitzgerald, C.S.C., Jolm Frederick, Louis Buckley, Neil Amiot, John Carroll, Wni. B. Jones, Joseph Hilger, August Grams, Joseph Griffin, Richard Quinlan, and Robert Mohlman, Middle row (seated) left to right: AVm. H- Murphy, Rev. Andrew Mulreany, C.S.C., Vincent Walsh, Henr>* Hasley, Edward Rafter, Joseph Doran, and Edward McKcown. Front row, left to right: Charles Schuessler, Joseph Langlon, Alfred Schnurr, 
Joseph Morrissey, Frank Creadon. 
46 Notre Dame AlumnuSy March, 1958 

for tlic uiiiniiiR team. ED. PHILBIN, '28, has a son at Notre Dame. 
RAYMOND P. DRY.MALSKI, chief justice, ^^unicipal Court of Chicago, reports that he and wife Alice are proud of Ray, Jr., 21, Paul H., 18, and Sue Mary, 14. 
OSKAR RUST and son Robert, 26, a N. D. gratluaie, operate the Fair Store, Grccnsburg, Ind. ROBERT is daddy of three. RICHARD, 23, also a 
N. D. grad, is nou- Brother John at St. Joseph's Prior>' of Somerset, Ohio, Dominican. Suzanne, 23, is now Sr. Paul Marie, O.S.B. Mar>' Christine, 15, is now at Villa ifadonna Academy, Cowngton, Ky. At home with Oskar and wife Zila Mac arc Greg, age 12, and Joe, aije 10. Oskar was back for the Pittsburgh game. Congratulations, Oskar, on your fine family. 
Froni Ogdensburg, N. V., wc learn that JOSEPH BARNEIT continues in his own insurance business. His family consists of wife, Justine, and daughters Mar>' Ann, 12, Catherine Rose. 8. and Margaret Elizabeth, 6. Joe's brother, DONALD BARNETT, '53, a 1957 graduate of McGill Medical College, is interning at Providence (R. I.) General Hospital. Joe visits with TOM KENNEY who is working on the St. Lawrence Seaw.iv. He would like to hear from TOM L.\NTRY. 
Your secrctar\* welcomes letters like this recent one from KARL MARTERSTECK: "This is a rather tardy reply to your request for news concerning the '29ers here in Cleveland. 
"To the best of my knowledge the following members of our cl:iss arc in this area: ROCCO PERONE, CHARLES WOLFRAM, CLETE SCHNEIDER, REV. OTIS WINCHESTER, JOHN COLONGELO, PAUL HAL-\HAN, TOM KIENER, DON KREIS, GENE MILLIFF and JOE SVETE. 
"As you know, I am still with the Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Company, as Vice-President and Division Manager of the Cleveland Division. jMso with our company is BOB TROTTER, Vice-Presi­dent and General \(anager, and is stationed in Chicago. 
"I made the trip to East Lansing' for the Mich­igan State game, and aboard the bus was CLETFE SCHNEIDER. He is President of the Schneider Transportation Company. Their address is Republic Building, Cleveland 12, Ohio. He lives in Lake­wood, and he and his wife Dorothy have one daughter married, and one son Tommy attending Assumption High Scliool in Windsor, Ontario. 

"Since the Schneider Transportation Company sold their lake freighters, Clcte has been ver>' active in the Great Lakes Historical Society, which has established the Wakefield ^^useum at Vermil­lion. Ohio. He says that if anyone has anything of marine historical interest he would be very happy to accept gifts for the museum. Before Clete took over, the Great Lakes Historical Society was spon­sored by the Cleveland Public Library. 
"I also sec GENE MILLIFF quite frequently, who has recently completed 25 years ivith the Ohio Bell Telephone Company, and Is presently in charge of Circuit Design Engineering for the Northern Part of Ohio. He is married, has a girl sixteen in High School, and a boy thirteen, who is looking forivard to attending Notre Dame. Gene said he would like to hear from ED DeBAENE." 

JERRY OUELLETTE, Miami, Fla., writes that Jerome, Jr., is now Fratcr Rene Anthony, O.F.M.. and has four years of theology between him and ordination. Jerry's daughter Joan Ann recently married. On a trip to New England, Jerr>* saw JOHN O'CONTVOR, Bov Guidance, '30, Boston, and RALPH JORD.VN, now U. S. Marshall in Bangor. Maine. Jerrv would like to hear from JOE YOCH and BILL ENGELS. 
BILL CROTTY of Angola, Ind., and Pompano Beach, Fla., shares his time between Grotty Corp. (auto parts) Quincy, Mich., as president and chair­man of the board, and "Billy Boy, Inc." at Ft. Lauderdale, a new plant which makes life preservers and boat supplies. He is now **Gramps" to Bobby and Julie Douglas. Bill's daughters Patsy, Florence and Christine are all married. Bill, Jr. at 15 is Indiana Water Ski Slalom cliampion. Bill would like to hear frOm ED McMAHON in Syracuse; AL GURY in Peoria and PAUL FENLON 
Another son of a 29er at Notre Dame Is Bert Waltz a sophomore in chemical engineering. Dad JOHN P. WALTZ received an LL.B. from AVil­liam McKinley School of Law in 1950. He is .Attorney Waltz associated with Hart, AValtz, Kandel and Hart, Canton, Ohio. Ifc has practiced law since 1950 after being with Canton Stamping and Enameling Company for 22 years. John and wife Connie have daughter Charlcen, age 12, at home with them. John talked whh RED LE.\CH jn 
NEW YORK CIT\^—Bishop Fulton J. Sheen was guest spealter at the New York City CIub*s farewell dinner-reception for 15 Holy Cross Priests and Brothers departing for Pak­istan. Left to right are Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C-, Bishop Sheen and William H. Fallon, club president. 
September when Red also brought his son to Notre Dame. John would like to hear from LEO REES from Rome, New York; BILL BOLES and JOHN HARRINGTON of Indianapolis, as well as BILL DONLEN . John was back for the Naxy game. 
Devere Plunkett 

1930 
O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

BO RICHARDS, treading mcvkly about Kansas City and Muskogee, Okla., for many months, has now (after that Nov. 16, 1957, affair) adopted quite a swagger. Here's a quote from Bo: 
"In my last letter to you, the date of which seems ages ago, I stated there were no 30crs in Kansas City. I discovered shortly thereafter that I was in error, and if I am not barred by the statute of limitations, I would like to express jny apologies to yon, D.WID J. RIELLEY, JR., and any other 30cr that I missed at the time. /\s you know, Dave is a former St. Louisian and repre­sented that great metropolitan city, known us the "Rome of the West" at N. D. during our lime along with those notorious characters named BOB HELLRUNG, JOE SWITZER et al. Dave holds a responsible executive position with ^\'erlgamc 
•Wholesale Paper Company here in Kansas City. He is the proud father of three children. Sally, 21, is now teaching in Ward High School; David HI, 19, is a junior at Rockhurst College, and Richard, 8, attends Visitation School. I hear the latter is "head man" at 20 E, 54th St. 
"You will recall D.ive was quite a tennis player in our time. He has participated in many national tournaments and coached teams with distinction since graduation. His wUe, Berenice, is also a top tennis player in her own right and, with Dave, taught tennis at the College of St. Teresa for several years. Their daughter, Sally, in carrj'ing on the family tradition, finished tenth in the national girls' (18) tennis tournament in 1953; and in 1954 teamed with Jean .-Xrth, national singles champion, to win the national doubles championship. 
"I made a check of the local roster of alumn! before continuing this epistle to make sure there 
were no 30ers in Kansas City other than Dave 
and the writer. 
"I would like to suggest for adoption the alphabetical sj'stcm of class reporting. For ex­ample, surnames beginning with the letters A and B write in January, C and D in February, etc There will be two extra letters in the alphabet, which could be assigned to the summer months or for September and October. In this manner, we will have a particular month assigned to us, which will be noted en our calendars, and when our time rolls around, it may provide the ncccssar>' spark to write as there is some psv-cholosy In It. It is appreciated all will not write for very good reasons ^vhile there will be someone, we hope, in the letter group ^vho will write to keep the chain going. Dev, the principal reason I am proposing this sug­gestion is because I know my keen dbappointment was shared by many others when I noted our class column was a complete blank in the last issue of the Alumnus. In view of this, I know I am not tlic only 30er who is giving this matter serious thought and would like to do something sbout it. This is the principal reason I am writing now to help cover that blank in our doss column. 
"Of course, my suggestion would have no re­strictions about writing and certainly wc do not u-ant to limit to any particular month our general freelance and 'super reporter* TIM TOO.MEY and many other faithfuls in keeping the 30crs posted. Although "Hm doesn't hear from us, I am sure I speak for all when I say bis news items are very-much appreciated as they seem to fill the voidnest over the years, and we all like the variety and , broad coverage we usually find in his reports to the "Sec." There was one particular report in recent years ^vhcre Tim mentioned practically every ont in the class, excepting a dozen or so, including the-writer. I couldn't help but marvel at Tim's re­porting ability and the ground he covered. I think the only reason he missed me was because I ^^*as too far away in the prairie country or transporta­tion facilities must have broken down. Any^vay, Tim goes 'all out' and docs a tremendous Jobt I wish there were more like him. I am sure we have the potential in our Class if only we could bring it out in the open. Maybe that void in the '30 coltmm wU do the trick. It's a challenge!" 
More from Bo next Issue. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 47 
"Old Rocking-Ciiair" CHET ASH.\L\N reports: 
"Xot much ncu-5 from tills end of the line; I 

haven't seen an X.D. fellow in years. I*m still 
making juvenile chairs and rockers, as wfJl as 
adult's. And a lot of people must be standing 
these daySj as business is inclined to be a little 
slow. 
"My cliicf concern is getting our church built; 

we have a 5V2-acrc tract of land, and an architect 
has submitted a drawing of a very appropriately 
styled church, at a cost of $100,000. But herein 
lies the problem — how to raise the necessary-
amount. Extension Magazine will help us sub­
stantially, and if wc can raise $40,000 or $50,000, 
Bishop .Adrian in Nasluille will lend us the rest. 
'"I've been thinking, if any of the fellows in the Class of '30 would like a church named after them, it can be arranged. Just a Utile old clieck for 40 or 50 thousand dollars. Of course if lhe>' have an unsaintly name like mine, they would have to select the name of their patron saint. We wouldn't turn down any donation, however, any amount would be appreciated." 
ART DORAVIX, busy in the most attractive 

business one can imagine, makes cver^'onc envious: 
*'Our tourist season is drawing to a close and there is chill in the air portending an end to water skiing and associated sports that Minocqua has lately become so noted for. A seasonal business has its advantages in more leisure time, but re­muneration is corresponding smaller than an eleven month grind in this day of rising costs. I don't run into many X.D. men of *30 in this neck oE the woods, but I do have it in mind to look up 2EXO STAUDT in Loveland, Colo. I have a winter residence in Boulder, Colo., where my family spends the school term, having discovered four years ago the fabulous country called Colorful Colorado. 
*'iry avocation is promotions, a poorly paid line of work in a small community, except that there is deep satisfaction in the results I have been able to obtain. AVc are currently building a million dollar Union High School; wc Iiave an $80,000 hard surface airport program about to begin; wc have a free Water Ski Show that jivah that of C>prcss Gardens; we held the 1957 Regional Mid-West Water Ski Tournament (our four youngsters took eight firsts); and I am currently up to my cars in a snow sk! area known as Squirrel Hill. I think wc \%'ere fortunate in learning and spon­soring snow skiing as a family recreation twenty years ago. Both snow skiing and vx-atcr skiing have grown tremendously and we have been local experts during an important part of its popularity. The mountain skiing that Colorado offers was an important factor in our move. A lot of our friends say, "Wliat a life, snow skiing in Colorado in the \\'inter, and water skiing in the wonderful lakes of Wisconsin in the summer.*' It sounds easier than it really is, but I am fortunate in hanng a life partner who never stopped wanting to be an athlete. Katie beats up the golf courses in Colo­rado and AVisconsin just as avidly as she skis so that the Donrins have a well rounded outdoor life. Tom, our oldest, having finished a pre-med course at XD, is now in graduate school of business at Boulder, Colo. Janie, alter a start at Phy. Ed., has been water skiing the past two winters at Cypress Gardens. Jim and Cassic are jn high school in Boulder, while I spend a lot of time on the highway, winters, between my Wisconsin business interests and my Colorado family. I hope this gives you a glimpse of life v*ith the Don\ins." 
CHICK DRISCOLL, our Class president, men­tioned several news items in a recent note. Chick IS a frequent campus visitor. He wrote: 
"My son, Jim, ^aduated in June, and my second 5on, Micliael, is a senior in high school and hopes to be at Xotre Dame in 1958. 
"JLM FRIEL, JR. is back with his old finn of Meade-Johnson and is operating tlieir plant at Plainsfield. X. J. TIM HIXCHEY is still with South Shore Liquors in Chicago where he has been for some length of time." 
JIM AVALSH of Dallas had a good view of that 54-21 game. He sent this note prior to that affain 
**FATHER LAXE, who, as a scholastic at Moreau, was a classmate of ours, attended our banquet last spring. We had a very pleasant visit. The only other classmate of ours in Dallas, PETE WACKS, has recently received a fine promotion and has moved to tlie East to assume duties as Assistant to the President of a large aircraft com­pany. Although wc will miss Pete wc vmh him the best." 
GEORGE WXKLER wrote a letter menuoning some very real sorrow touching him in recent months; but he includes some good news: 
"Since seeing you last June at Commencement, 
48 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
EDWARD F. SIMONICH, '39 

Ed Simonichj the "One Man Gang^' of the late thirties, was named athletic director, coach of athletics and an as­sistant professor at the Montana School of Mines last summer. Previously he had been head football coach and track coachj and assistant basketball coach and an instructor at Boys Central High School, a Christian Brothers school in Butte, Montana. 
Star fullback of the 1937-39 Notre Dame squad. Ed has returned to Mon­tana College Conference coaching circles, a field in which he was most successful as a mentor at Carroll Col­lege, \vhere he coached from 1940 to 1944. At Carroll he turned out four championship basketball teams and three title-winning football clubs. 
Ed first coached at Boys Central from the spring of 1944 to the spring of 1947. His 1945 Maroons won the State Class A championship in foot­ball. Later he coached at St. Helena High School in. Sioux City, Iowa, for six years. He returned to Butte in 1955 as head coach and a faculty member at Boys Central. That season his Maroons won the city football cham­pionship. 
Dr. Edwin G. Koch, president of the School of Mines, expressed pleasure in securing the ser\'ices of Coach Simo­nich, whose "prior collegiate coaching experience and \\'ork in physical edu­cation over a period of many years augurs well for the future of athletics." 
things have really been popping with mc and I thought this Av'as a good time to take stock and pass some of the information on to you. 
"One of the startling developments of the past few months has been the renewal of mv close asso­ciation with BOB MULHALL (Robert A. Mulhall, Jr.) who was my roommate during my last two years at Xotre Dame. Bob and I attended several X'oire Dame functions together, had dinner, gone to tlie theatre and when I had decided to go to Europe with Mrs. Winkler, Bob was doing yeoman work, gathering the nccessarv- information for me. 
*'^Irs. AVinklcr and I sailed for Europe on October 18 and returned on Xovembcr 17. On Monday morning, the 18th, we were advised by telephone that Bob had been found dead in his apartment on Xovembcr 17 as a result of a heart attack. 
"Mass was celebrated at the Church of St. Agnes, East 43rd Street on Thursday, X'ovember 21. 
"I feci sure that those of Bob's close friends who were with us during the year 1929-30 will be quite shocked by his sudden death. 
"Going back further to the startling events of this period, my Dad died on October 8, 1957 after an illness of a short week. That was GEORGE X'. WINKLER, age 82. Dad was buried from St. Mar>''s Church, Far Rockaway, my brother-in-law, Monsignar John J. Corrigan celebrating the High .Mass. 
^'Further developments: My son-in-law, Private ROBERT SPOS.-\TO and Barbara are stationed in Fricberg, Germany with the Armed Forces, living at Bad Xauheim, presented us with a grandson on October 16, 1957. Tliis vv-as the primary reason for the trip to Europe; on October 18, Mrs. Winkler and I, accompanied by MONSIGNOR JOHN J. CORRIGAN, the uncle, sailed for Germany to sec that the baby was properly baptized. Tlie ceremony took place in the MiHlarv- Chapel at Frieberg, Germany. 
"After spending the week with the kids, wc left for Zurich, Snitzerland, visited Lucerne, then on to Venice, Florence and then to Rome. While at Rome, in addition to doing the normal things that a tourist does in Rome, wc had a private audience with His Holiness, Pius XII. 
**From Rome wc went on to London, then to Dublin, spending three days in Ireland, leaving for home by v%-ay of Shannon on Pan-American, BOB HAMILTON'S air line. 
"During this interim, namely October 19, GEORGE WINKLER, JR., '56, ray son, left for Fort Dbc, where he is now in boot training as part of six months reserv*e. 
"Talked to TIERNEY O'ROURKE and LARRY CRONLN; see CHICK GRUXNING evcr>- so oncc­in-awhilc. 
"Trust that some of the above might be of in­terest to you, also might add that new officers of my company have now been elected with yours truly as president.** 
TIM TOOMEY, vice-president of the Class for the East,, sends along a full scouting report of things and people along the Atlantic sciboard: 
"As I previously informed you, the belated news of your brother Dan's death did not reach us until we read of his untimely passing in the Alumnus. FATHER "JIM" RIZER, now assigned to St. ifary's Church, Alexandria, Va., was notified to offer a Requiem Mass on behalf of the Class. 
'*You will note 1 am now residing in Lexington. Mass., the home of American liberty. I moved here after 27 years in X^ew York. It might be hailed as *Thc Return of the Native' as the Bay State is my birthplace. 
*'I am now associated with the American Casu­alty Co., of Reading, Pa., and I shall be verv­pleased to hear from any of the lads who may be in the Boston area. 
*'In making arrangements for my transfer Iicrc I received tremendous personal assistance from JOHN V, MORAN, of the City of Boston Admin­istrative Council and also from *RED* HURLEY, *27, of Springfield, Mass. 
"My old economics insinictor, LOU BUCKLEY, '28, reached here about the time I arrived. He has an important administrative detail with the 
U. S. Department of Labor, X'ew England Dis­trict. An early lunclieon with Lou is on tap. 
*'T7ie X. D. X'ight Dance at the Park Lane in Xew York last year v^-as a real success. It brought out the members of the Ladies Auxiliary Section of the Class of 1930. Tlic ED COXROYs, GEORGE WIXKLERs, TIERXEY O'ROURKEs, and the TOM LANTRYs were a few of the class couples we spotted, or to use a better expression—I danced with the 'brides* when the 'old men' sat out. 
"Wc had a chat with FATHER JOHN BOLAND, C.S.C.» an old professor and presently assigned 
to duly at the Veterans Administration in Xcw York City. "TOM BILVDLEY, Lx\RRV CRONIX, JOE AB­BOTT ucrc on hand to hear JACK LAVELLE, *28. 
M.C. the Long Island Chapter of the New York Club meeting at which TERRV BREXN/VN, '48, football coach and PAT CANXY, *27, National Alumni Association president, also spoke. 
"We had a real nice visit in June with DR. 

JOHN PREECE at his farm in Newton, Pa., ART 
DEXNEHY, JOHN BURNS, *31, JUDGE 'RICH' 
BARBER, '31, accompanied yours truly. Dr. John 
has several fine thoroughbred horses in training at 
the farm. One of his outstanding is Arion, whicli 
has had a highly successful campaign this season 
at the New Jersey race tracks. The good medico 
is the standard bearer for the Bachelor's Division 
of the Class. He is professionally recognized as 
one of the countr\-'s leading obstetricians. John 
is a grand host and members of the class will be 
given the *Red Carpet' treatment when they visit 
him. He has assured me all are welcome when 
in the vicinity of Trenton, N. J. 
"The Army-X.D. game in Philly was a thriller! 

It was the outstanding comeback victor>' of all 
the games, of the scries I have witnessed since 
1929. I missed the 1945 game. The score was 48 
to 0. JACK L/WELLE gave the coaches the scout­
ing data on that one which prevented Army from 
making the other extra point. 
"FR/\XK LE/\HY, '31, and ART McM.VNA­MON, *31, were passengers on the plane to Philly for the Army game. AVc saw ED L/WIN of Oliphant, Pa., for the first time in all the years at the game. He is still the same old Eddie. JOHN QUINX, JOHN F. MORAN, JOE RY/\N, ED ELLSWORTH, JOE ABBOTT, 'CHUCK* ROHR, BOB HOLMES, HAROLD DUKE, PAT Cx\NNY, *27, CHRISTY FLANAGAN, '27, JOHXXY SMITH, '27, RED HURLEY, '27, TOM SHE/\. '29, JOE FRIEL, '29, ED KRAUSE, *32, JIM ARMSTRONG, '25, were among those happy alumni we met, ate u*ith, or talked to during the grand week end of the Army game. But among those others seen or talked to were: GAY^LORD HAAS, '28; JACK SAUNDERS, '31; JOHN >fc-XAXAMOX, '27; JERRY PARKER, who recently had a visit with FATHER JIM RIZER; CH.\RLEY McKINNEY, '27; ED ARTHUR, LEO LOVE and JOHN B. SULLIVAN, the old Springfield, Mass., rifle, who informed mc my old side kick, PAT HASTINGS, had returned to his first love, teaching. JACK EGAN. '28, told mc our standard bearer, 'CHUCK' DRISCOLL returned to the 'land of the Cod.' his native bailiwick. The beloved BROTHER CYPRIAN used to needle J- FR.VNCIS and myself about our Bay State by telling us the law would apprehend us if we ever started to practice accounting in the Commonvvealth. How right can one be! Hou* right can one be! 
"Since I last wrote you *MOON' MULLIXS came here to Boston with the ^farquctte football squad, and the lads from Wisconsin lost a close one to the Boston College Eagles, ^[oon is doing a real big league job as Business Manager of Athletics at M. U. 
"Larry informed me Lawrence, Jr., is presently at N'orth American College in Rome completing his studies for the priesthood. 
"GEORGE 'DINNY* SHAY and his witc Helen Were down from Manchester, Conn. Dinny is now with Pratt-Whitney Corp. after nearly 20 years of football coaching. 
"CHET ASHMAN wrote a long letter about the grand response from the class members for the recent Navy game raffle which he helped promote for his parish In Greenville, Tenn. Chet is doing a splendid job down in 'Them Thar Hills,* helping those who have the faith to keep it by his fine example of leadership. I can appreciate such devotion to the Church as I %%-as in the Volunteer State myself for a spell. I know the sacrifices which have to be made to get to hear Mass, build schools, and churches, etc. Tlic missions have done much, but it is real Christians such as CHET ^VSHMxVX and his family which keeps our faith alive." 
ED ARTHUR sends in his rcser\'ation for the 30-year reunion and reports some other interesting items: 
"It was a real surprise to run into Li\RRY CROX'^IN, \vho has returned to the East and is now Director of Industrial Relations with Greer Hydraulics, Inc., at International Airport and a resident of Garden City. 
later. (Do you suppose His Emminence Francis will ask for a transfer to Boston?) 
"My old roommate JOE HENXESSY and his wife Evelyn recently Hew out to San Diego to sec Joe, Jr., '55, and his bride of a year before Joe, Jr., left for a cruise in the Pacific for Uncle Sam. A carrier pigeon reports that Joe, 3fd, Class of '78, is expected at Bingharoton, X. Y., this month. 
"Here in X^ew Hyde Park we are building a new Xotre Dame. In the past nine years we have built and paid for a grade school, convent, rectory and prior>*. This month we will start construction of a new church and an addition of eight class­rooms and auditorium to our school. 
"As our trio Kathleen, 12, X'anc>-, 10, and Christopher, 7, get their four Rs at X^'otre Dame, my wife and I tr>* to lend a hand to keep the pot boiling. We started the Cana Conferences three years ago; my wife was president of the very active Rosary Society (over 1,000 members) this past year; and I have spent a few evenings each \*"eek on such ^'aried activities as teaching a Con­fraternity class, counting the deficits of Holy Xame affairs as treasurer or ringing doorbells for building or census campaigns. 
"Oh, yes, I*m still employed by Western Electric Co., and if you can't get your extension phone now, cheer up; wc will have other factories In Columbus, Ohio, Tuba, Okla., and Kansas City, Mo., within a couple of years." 
OAS CANNON jotted down a few bits of news from the Columbus headquarters: 
"I was in Pclham, X. Y., and had a wonderful visit with my brother-in-law 'HOWIE' SMITH. He is the head football coach at Mount St. Michael's Academy. I am sending my son, 16, to the 'Mount* and I am sure Howie wll do a lot for him. He loves football; we might have another JACK CAX*XON. .Mso ran into Jack and FRAXK WALKER. They arc both domg well with the Federal Government. 
"Had a nice letter from BERNIE CONROY; he and his son made a retreat together at X'otrc Dame this summer. 
"Brother Jack is In good health and asked to be remembered to the class." HUGH GALLAGHER sent along a very welcome note from his home in Pittsburgh: 
"I enjoyed a get-together at our annual golf outing with LrVRRY ENRIGHT, MIKE TEDDERS, BERXIE CONROY and DUKE KINGSLEY. AH are in the pink and needless to say the stories were flying thick and fast. Also enjoyed a golf date with DICK O'TOOLE eariier in the summer. 
Dick, as you know, is one of the leading pedi­atricians here and, I might add, shoots a wicked left hand mashie. 
"I am learing for Washington, D. C , on busi­ness. While there I intend to contact GEORGE O'MALLEY. Between us we should be able to get together a few more Items for your next edition. Say hello to TIM TOOMEY.** 
AHLTON F. FOX has been made general man­ager of the Tcrre Haute Brewing Company. Fol­lowing the merger of this brewing company and Xapco Industries, Milton asstmied the responsibilities for the entire operation of the seventh division of Xapco. The Fox children arc Frank, a senior at Xotre Dame; Luanne, a freshman at St. Mary's College here, and Donald, a high school freshman. 
JOHN ARCHER HURLEY, ^vho Hves at 15 Elbert Court, Ramsey, Xew Jersey, is now opera­tions manager of the Garden State Parkway in Xew Jersey. He had been with the federal govern­ment prior to this appointment for 20 years. The two Hurley boys arc now ia high school. 
FRANK X. O'XEIL, who handles retail oil sales in San Pedro, Calif., for Sandard Oil, is the Faith­ful Navigator of the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus in Long Beach. Frank is also president of the Long Beach Catholic Welfare Bureau. Other parish acti\itles ol Frank result in his election as president of the Holy Name Society and chairman of the Carmelite Guild. 
DEVERE PLUNKETT, class secretary, \\-ants to acknowledge with thanks the many notes he re­ceived from Notre Dame people following the death of his brother, Don, '29, last May. 
PROF. JIM REYXIERS, founder and director of Xotre Dame's LOBUND, has been on the lecture trail, dbcussing germfree research recently with the South Bend Optimists. 
EDWARD G. CONROY, aty manager of Xew RochcIIe, X'ew York has been elected to the board of directors of the American Social Hygiene Asso­ciation, it is announced by Philip R. Mather, the association's president. 
1921 James T.Doyle " " 902 Oakton Street Evanston, Illinois 
Time again for Alumni Xotes for the CIa5s of 1931. We have had a fairly successful football season and I hope that the success of the team will au-aken the '31ers to the necessity of keeping in touch with their "hard working class secretary.** 
"Others of our Class were CARL GRUXIXG, 

LEO LOVE and TIM TOOMEY. I ran into Tim ROME—First executive meeting following first election of Club officers. Shown in the In front of Old St. Peter's on Barclay St. a few dining room of "Ashley's Villa" are: (left to right) Father Edward L. Heston, C.S.C., 
days ago and he told me he ^vas forsaking Xew 
chaplain; Jerry Ashley, '33, president; George Gleason, '37, vice-president; Sylvester Theiscn, 
York for Boston. It seems that the Massachusetts 
boys have to get back to the Old Sod sooner or '49 (\isiting witness!); Vince McAloon, '34, secretary-treasurer. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 49 
Needless to say I have one faithful helper who can 2l\>-ays come through u'ith notes about actnitics in his area. JOHN BURNS attended the Army-Notrc Dame game at Philadelphia and sent jne a QOte on activities and people seen there. 
"Your letter was in the mail box on my return from Phiily. It ^vas too bad I didn't receive it before leaving for the week end; I would Iiavc had some ammunition the night o{ the rally. 
"In my wanderings, I met PAT CANNY en route to the ballroom to speak in his capacity as Na­tional Alumni President. Pat graciously offered the key to his room ^vhere ^ve enjoyed a rally of our own. TIM TOOMEY, his sister ^lar^• and her hubbv, Mr. and Mre. JOE FRIEL, Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD DUK.E, JIM ARMSTRONG, our Alumni Secretary, Mr. and .Mrs. WALTER 'DUTCH' RIDLEY, PAT CANN"Y and CHUCK ROHR joined us for an evening of N.D. recollections. Need I mention that CANNY knows some of the better stories? 
"Met DICK and Frances BARBER immediately on entering the gate — Dick was trj'ing to dowii a half-cooked frank. The Barbers and FRtVNK Mc-CULLOUGH and Ids son came over on one of the two special trains operated by the Notre Dame Club of N. Y. The game itself was one of the best I've ever seen between the teams — and the result 1.V3S so good from our viewpoint. Down to the bench after the game to greet CILVRLIE and ALICE McKlNNEY, TOMMY SHE.\, still the Holyoke flash; JOE ABBOTT, the DICK BARB­ERS» JOHN LISICKI and his wife. I understand JACK SAUNDERS and DAN HALPIN were at the game; called JIM GALLAGHER Sunday to learn he had been there with his son Jimmy; sure sorry I missed them all. And come to think about it, what happened to GIL PERRY, who usually makes the trip from Wilkcs-Barre? TIM TOOMEY met FRANK LE.'^HY on the plane from Boston — I was <iisappointed in not seeing Frank. 
"Visited ED CUNNINGHA.M and his family in Central Valley, N. Y. 3 week before the game. ED 'SLIM' MAHON attended the N.D.-Army luncheon at Leone's and met up with GENE CON­NELLY, JOHN hA\\\ ED BARNEY and TIERNEY O'ROURKE, among others. DR. JOH.\ D. PREECE is tlirilled with his good 3-ycar old colt Anon. He's now been to the winner's circle four times in allowance and slake races." 
I had a letter from SPIKE SULLIVAN who promised to send the latest ncu-s on activities at the Oklahoma and Southern Methodist games. May it be another victory- on next Saturday. I think that H.\SKELL ASKEW may come up %vlth some news of what goes on at these games also. 
This time, unfortunately, news includes the death of classmates and the parents of others. Word was received recently of the death of JOHN C. KOEHL, 4203 Lille, Fort Wayne, Ind., on October 
16. John was with us from 1927 through 1930. Recent news tells of the death of KARL W. SCHERER who lived at 727 Homewood Avenue, Da>ton 6, Ohio. Karl received a Bachelor of Science degree in Pharmacy and u^as originally from Rochester, New York. I had a telephone call from PAUL DUNa\N, Chicago, 111. and a letter from FREDDIE SWINT, Nash\-ille, Tcnn., enclosing a news item telling of the death of CHARLES SHERID.VN WELLS in Little Rock, Ark. After leaving Notre Dame in 1931 Red emigrated to Nash\ille and was active in the beer distributing business. About three years ago he suffered 3 stroke and has been permanently dis­abled since then. He is suriived by his widow and two sons, Charles, Jr., of Naslnille and Patrick of Memphis. Mass offerings have been sent to FATHER JAMES DONTJELLY at Lampassas, Texas for the repose of tlicir souls. Letters of condolence on behalf of the class enclosing Mass requests have been lent to their families. The father of ALFRED C. STEPAN, JR., passed away in October. Eileen Ruppe, wife of ROBERT RUPPE, passed away in November alter an extended illness. She is sur­\ived by her husband, Bob, of 1353 Arthur Avenue, Chicago, 111. and their six children. Tlie s>Tn­pathy of the Class is extended to their families. Please remember them in your pravcrs. 
i^lATT GARRIGAN and 3VURTIN AMDER, to­gether with their wives, drove over from Detroit to -attend tlic services for Mrs. Ruppe. Tl\cy had all been friends in Detroit previously. Matt reported that HEINE KOPEK is back in the Iaundr>- oper­ating business and delivered a contribution from both of them for our Mass fund. I find that MARTIN WIDER and his wile arc the parents of nine children which puts him at the head of the Class on the number of children. (If there are any disputants I should like to hear from Ihcra.) 
The N'otrc Dame Club of Chicago held a Scholar­ship Benefit Parly at the Casino in October. 
50 Notre Dame AlumniiSj March, 1958 
BRO. RAYMOND FLECK, C^.C, '51 

Brother Ra)*mond became the na­tion's youngest university president in October. 1957. when, at the age of 
30. he was inaugurated as the eighth president in the 72-year history of St. Edward's University^ Austin^ Texas. 
A native of Broddj'n and a Nav>' veteran. Brother Ra)Tnond attended Manhattan College and took both his baclielor's and doctor's degrees in chemistr)' at Notre Dame. He has earned wide recognition for his chemi­cal research and has spoken before several learned societies. 
He comes to the presidency of St. Edward's when the university is in the midst of an extensive expansion and construction program. Already com­pleted are the library-administration building and the g>Tnnasium. Nearing completion is a new men's dormitor)'. A science building is newly under con­struction. The entire building program \vill cost five million dollars over the next several years. 
Brotlier Raymond had previously taught at Cathedral High School in Indianapolis, Ind. He is die second of 12 children, one of whom is a priest. 
Present were a\R L CRONIN. FRANK DRIS­COLL, BILL LEAHY. BERT METZGER, JIM MULVANEY, DON OTOOLE, ED RYAN, GIL SE^VMAX, AL STEPAN and JIM DOYLE and their uives. DON OTOOLE and his wife, Marian spent a few weeks of their European trip In Ireland and had some very interesting stories to tell. I mentioned to Jim Mul\-aney that Johnny Burns was expecting a letter from him. Jim promised either to write or telephone shortly, John. DON MIHAN planned cn making the party but plans for a visit to Peoria prevented his attendance. He mentioned that JOE KIRBY is busy running the radio station at Waukegan, 111. and that Ed Foley is busy in his music store. I abo talked to TO.M CONLEY and WALT CAHILL on this party but they were unable to make it. 
I had a phone call from ED RYAN today tclHng of the wonderful talk given at the Notre Dame Club Communion Breakfast at the LaSalle Hotel Sunday, December 1. Mass was attended by the group at the new St. Peter's Church at Madison and Clark Streets. FATHER MATTHEW WALSH was in attendance also. He will celebrate his golden anniversary of ordination as a Holy Cross priest on December 21. On December 29, at 12:00 o'clock he will celebrate a Solemn High Mass at St. Tiiomas Aquinas Church in Chicago, his family parish. It is expected that many local Notre Dame men will attend this Mass. 
Today I had a call from GEORGE COSTELLO who had been ill for the past month or so. He has now recovered and was in good enough licalth to attend the Southern California game witli HARRY KENNEDY. I had a chance to talk with Harry and learn something of his South American travels. Harry manages to get this w^y every few years and never fails to spend' some time with George. He has been in \-arious South American countries with Coca-Cola since leaving Notre Dame. Recently he has been put in charge of their con­centrate and twelve bottling plants in Colombia. His address is Apartado 2077, Cali, Colombia. He left Bogota in late October and managed to find time for a visit with JOHN &\CKLEY at Notre Dame. Harry has several reels of color pictures of his travels through \'arious South i\mcrican countries and offers them for use by our classmates. Thc>- can be borrowed (but be sure to return them) by contacting his brother. Dr. Kenneth Kennedy, Jerscj- Shore, Penn. Harr>- is still single as he insists he never stays in one place long enough to get acquainted w-ith a charming scnorita. BENNY OAKES , looking well, was seen at the Navy game on a ^veek end furlough from the hospital supply business. Seen at a N'otre Dame Club luncheon hearing ED KRAUSE were ED RYAN and NICK BOHLING. Our out of town guest was H^VROLD DUKE of Philadelphia, whom many of us re­member as one of BROTHER C\TRIAN's cor­rectors. Harold looks well and manages to get to Chicago occasionally. 
Here's an excerpt from Prof. E.MIL "JUDGE" TELFEL's letter to the tMumni Office: 
"As usual, there isn't much news about me. I'm still an associate professor of journalism at the University of Kansas. I still have tlie same wife and the same Siamese cat, the former acquired in 1939 and the latter in 1947. No children, alas. Rinehart & Co. published my editing workbook, *Around the Copydcsk/ in 1952 (co-author Charles 
G. Pearson) and now I'm struggling to finish an­other \vhlch they have accepted, and which should have been finished two years ago. I have acquired a minor reputation as: (a) a campus character with a vast fund of useless information; (b) a public relations expert, and (c) an expert on neuTpaper readership and makeup. 
"For the past five summers I have read copy for the Rochester (N. Y.) Times-Union, and thus had a chance to diat and visit often with AL ROCHE, who is an examiner with the Division of Probation, New York State Department of Correction. But Al is the only alumnus of my class I have seen since I came to Kansas from Loyola University of the South in 1946. 
"I'm a member of two Notre Dame Clubs: the Kansas City, Mo., club, and the Eastern Kansas Club, with headquarters in Topeka, and pay dues to both. I haven't attended any Kansas City meetings, but have gone to those of the Eastern Kansas Club. 
"Notre Dame's victory over Oklalioma brought me some publicity on page one of the Lawrence daily, but thai was easy, as the paper is staffed largely by my former students. They include the managing editor and the news editor and the associate publisher, >vhosc rise to that liigh posi­tion w-as not exactly hampered by his being the son of the publisher. 
"I was host for Sir ^Villiam John Hale>*, editor of the London Times, when he risitcd the University of Kansas campus in October, 1956, and as a re­sult basked in reflected glor>- to the extent of haWng my picture in some of the London dailies. During the 1956 election I was master of ceremonies at a campus election party and had the distinction of being the first to inter\-iew our Democratic gov­ernor, Lawrence banker George Docking, for the local radio station. This is a distinction I'd rather not have now, considering what Geoi^c is doing to the university budget. 
"But this letter is overlong. I wish some of my 

friends in the Class of 1931 would write to me. 
Tin a lone 1931 alumnus surrounded by Kansas, 
Kansas State, \Vastiburn, Oklahoma, Oklahoma 
Stale, and Missouri alumni, not io mention those 
from assorted denominational schools from a three-
state arex 
*'A Syracuse journalism colleague Informed mc at 

a convention in Xew Vork about a month ago 
thai D/\NIEL C. WILLIAMS is a well known 
aftorncy with a thriving practice In Syracuse. 
"And that's about all the news I have of my 

classmates. Of course, I did meet and cliat with 
many of them at our 25ih reunion in 1956." 
TOM GOLDEN has moved from Montana to 

Pierce City, Mo. On ThanksgiWng day he married 
a widow of that city, Mrs. Clara Bess Garrison 
Durkin, and now lias six new cliildrcn, ranging in 
age from two to twelve. 
1 932 J^""cs K, Collins b336 Kenniore Road . '. Shaker Heights, Ohio 
From JIM COLLINS: 
RA V GEIGE K was m Cleveland recently on his 

winter tour of promoting the Farmers' Almanac 
of wliich lie is tlic editor and publisher. He lives 
in Lcwistun, Maine, and has been editor of the 
Almanac since 1935. He and his wife, j\nne, write 
most of the magazine whJlc ihcy arc not ollierwise 
busy raising their five children. Ray will be espe­
cially remembered for furnishing all the printed 
favors at tlie class reunions. 
CLfVY JOHNSON, with his wife and daughter, 

made one ol his infrequent trips to the campus 
for the Pittsburgh game. He is practicing law and 
helping to manage a few businesses in New York. 
He lives in Rye, N. Y. 
JACK WITTLIFF, PAUL OTOOLE and BARRY 

O'KEEFE , with their vvivcs, were around the 
campus and visiting St. Mar\*'s on the same week 
end. 
We should give a special slap on the back to GEORGE IZO for being the first of the class to have a son on the \-arsity football team. George, Jr., had a fine year, and is certainly a credit to his family. His pass to Aubrey Lewis which ^von the Pitt game was a picture play that will long be remembered. 
Seems like something — maybe a general dis­illusionment about the U. S. Weather Bureau — is turning the public back to the 142-year-old Farmer's Almanac, now owned and edited by our own RAY GEIGER. Ray's sideline has been gettitig a big play by the wire services in papers coast to coast, which probably hasn't hurt his printing business (advertising specialties) in Lewiston, Maine. 
Reunion 
CLASS 
'33 

1 033 Joseph A. McCabe IT^^ 2215 Lincoln 
Evanston, Illinois 

The big date is approaching and all concerned hope you are concerned about the 25-year reunion. It would be terrific if all living members of the class could come back. Perhaps that's impossible— but let's shoot for it, anyway. Make sure yon get there! 
Responses arc coming in to the questionnaire, but they could be returned a lot faster — sent yours in yet? If there are any questions you don't want to answer, just skip them and fill out the others and mail. 
We need a lot more donations for the class gift, too. The expenses of our mailings arc eating into it. Prcxy GEORGE ROHRS and the members of the committee — reunion co-chairmen JOHN O^SHAUGHNESSV and JACK HO\ T plus the undersigned under-secretar>- arc tvorking on sug­gestions as to how to best use the funds to achieve a worthwhile purpose which will suitably perpetuate the memory- of the Class oE 1933. One of the first steps will be to appoint a committee to work on the matter if one can be chosen which can conveniently meet and cfTcctively function. 
However they will need the money to use what­ever is selected — so if you haven't contributed, get your donation in. It's deductible as a charitable donation. 
But the big thing is to plan on getting to the reunion. Remember, wc only get, one of these. Tlic next one will be the 30th, and statistics prove . . - well, I won't go into that. 

L,argesc,group going back will probably be from around this area. .And there should be a sizeable crowd, too. Looking through a Chicago club direc­tory- you can spol someone with a '33 after his name on just about evcr>' page . . , CAVENDER, CROWE, CRO^\•LEY, DILLAL\N, GARRITY, KENNEDY, LEE, etc. 
We suggest right now that you get on the phone and call your old roommates and pals to form groups to go down together. Last reunion John O'Sliaughnessy organized a Bus and Chowder Society that hired a Greyhound (ah there, Vern Keiley!) to go down and return in. Perhaps other groups can do the same thing this reunion — it's a great wav to travel! 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR., Go-Chairman of the 25th Class Reunion reports that approximately 100 of the Class Questionnaires have already been returned-The response to date indicates that a large per­centage of the Class are planning to attend the week-end reunion July 6, 7 and 8, 1958. 
The questionnaire has furnished some interesting statistics about our Class. For a group that was graduated in the height of the depression over 90 per cent of our Class owns their own homes and each home seems to be crowded with many children. 
Those who have not sent their questionnaires in as yet are requested to sit down "witli pen in hand" before the hoHda%-s and accomplish the questionnaire and send it in. If by chance you have not received your copy or have misplaced it, send a post card to John iV. Hoyt, Jr., 342 Madison .Avenue, New York 17, N. Y,, and a copy will be sent to you by return mail. Recently our Class president, GEORGE ROHRS met in Chicago with JOHN 0*SHAUGHNESSY and JOE McaVBE for a full discussion of reunion plans. The results of their conference I am sure will be communicated to you within the near future. 
So let's form up. gang and get back 100 per cent strong for the big 25th. 
Another thing — let's pray for the success of the reunion, and for all classmates living and dead. The Lord and Our Lady have been exceedingly good to tis — giving us 25 years since we graduated from Her school in which to put the precepts we learned to work. .All of us have fallen short in one 
Robert L. Hamilton, '34, president of The Dumore Co., Racine, Wis., was elected president of the American Supply & Ma­chinery Manufacturers Assn. at the annual convention in San Francisco. In addition to serving as president for one year, Bob will also head the executive committee of the association. He then becomes a permanent member of the board of directors. Bob is a member of the Notre Dame College of Commerce Advisorj* Council and was for­merly N.D. Foundation governor in Wis­consin. 
way or another, of course, human nature being what 
- it is — but the true Notre Dame spirit Is to keep tr^-ing. 
Then \%'hen we get back to Her grotto. Her Dome, Her school — wc can refresh ourselves with Her per\*ading wisdom . . . and return back to fight the good fight for another 25. Let's all pray for each other! 
P.S.—Good news from a most ^velcome source— a letter from FATHER .\UURICE POWERS, one of our Classmates of the Cloth. 
St. Patrick's Rectory, 309 South Taylor Street, South Bend 13, Indiana Mr. John N. Cacklcy, Jr., Alumni Office, Notre Dame, Indiana. Dear John: Thanks kindly for the notification of the Alumni programme for next June, and be assured that I shall be tlicrc. I have always kept in touch with Joe McCabc in River Forest these past dozen years, during which time I was 11 of these years in the Ser\'ice, in Germany, France, England, Austria, Czcclioslox-akia, etc. . . . and then later in Japan and Korea I often had fine correspondence with him, so I always follow the affairs of tlie men of '33. I shall be happy to offer the Mass for you men oa that .Alumni programme unless you have some­one more esteemed than I to offer the Mass lor the Alumni, and that won't be hard to find someone!!! Keep me informed as to developments . . . Gratefully yours, —Maurice E. Powers, CS.C. From the fUumni Ofiice: 
J. VINCENT BURKE, JR., of the law firm of Campbell, Houck & "Hiomas, has been elected president of the Allegheny County Bar Association for 1958. H t heads one of the most important /MIegheny County organizations, composed of 150O Iaw>-ers. 
1 934 T. Edward Carey 
• '^^ 18843 Inglewood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 
Intercity moves of members of the *34 Class In­
clude: CDR. JACK DcWILDE from Floyd Bennett 
Field to Na\-al Station Kwajalein, Navy No. 824, 
FPO, San Francisco, Cal.; JOE GLENNON from 
Scarsdale, N. Y. to Box 108, South Dartmouth, 
Mass.j GLYN*N ERASER from Topeka, Kans. to 
St. Joseph's Hospital, Denver, Colo.; BILL ilc ­
COR.\HCK from West Orange, N. J. to Lanolin 
Plus, 30 W. Hubbard St., Chicago, 111.; ERNIE 
AL-VSSIMINE from Cucuta, Columbia to Texas 
Petroleum Co., Apartado .Aereo 3622, Bogota, Co­
lumbia, S.A.; AL PHANEUF from San Antonio, 
Texas to I80I Grecnside Drive. Springfield, 111.; 
JIM CiVRTLAND from Canandaigua, N. Y- to 50 
Davis St., Boston 70, Mass.; BOB SULLIVAN from 
SvTacuse, N. Y. to j;\ss't. Supt. N.Y.S. Agric and 
Industrial School, Box C, Industry, N. Y.; ED LEE 
from Glen EII>-n, 111. to 135 Lexington Park\tfay ^V., 
St, Paul, Minn.; JOE REPINE from San Antonio, 
Texas lo 322 Jackson Drive, Osfcosh, ^\'i5.; and 
CHUCK QUINN from Delray Beach, Fla. to I7& 
.Mineola Blvd., .Mineola, L. L, N. Y. 
The football season alwa\'S brings out a few of 
the '34crs -— and word of a few more. D.\VE 
FROEHLICH must be among the most loyal of 
Irish rooters; your Secretary sees more than his 
share of games, but Dave is always there first. He's, 
been accompanied lately by a pretty daughter named 
Beth, who is becoming quite an N. D. fan, too. 
At the Navy game, Dave reported seeing a couple 
of Hagens. Jack, tlie recent Ohio re-transplant, 
\\c failed to catch up with, but wc did enjoy a 
halftime visit with Lowell to Red. The sartorial 
splendor of Mexico, Mo. looked trim enough to 
suit up and go in there again. Red has two boys 
at N.D., one a junior the other a freshman, and 
a ten year old daughter at home. 
Red inquired about JOHNNY RUPPEL, formerly 
of Cleveland. A recent phone call to brother 
Harold, still on the local scene, elicited the fol­
lowing. Johnny is Merchandising Manager of the 
Bon Marche in Seattle. He has two sons and a 
daughter, and the oldest, John, Jr., is a freshman 
at N.D. How's that Red? (I wish more of you 
guv-s had brothers). 
Some of you freshman fathers could have a 
pri\*ate reunion. A note and ch'pping from CHUCK 
QUIN*N a while back reports that his son' is a 
freshman in the Science School at N.D. Chuck, 
Jr., besides \Wnning all the gold medals in sight, 
u-as valedictorian of his class in ^Vest Palm Beach 
last June. The rest of the Quinns are back in 
Mineola (see above), but don*t make it official unul 
after the first cold wave. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1958 51 
Saw BOB CAHILL before tlic Iowa game and lie 

was as clicerful as a. ticket manager with a scU out. 
He was jtill steamed up about the Oklalioma game, 

which be and Mar\' attended. How about vou 
JACK MARTIN and CHx\RLEY MOXNOT? Bet 
you were a little hard to get along with for a 
while out there in Oklahoma City. 
BOB BUTLER was in Cleveland recently visit­

ing his brothers and selling some Webster sound 
equipment. Bob and his family are living in 
Racine, AVis. 
Locally, MSGR. ED SEWARD is still hard at 

work, as Diocesan Chancellor, building cliurches 
and schools all over the place in an effort lo keep 
up with the growing population. He would like to 
know %vhat liappcned to WALT KENNEDY, £b 
would wf. 
NORB R/\SCHER has his clicsi out. His son was the ace quarterback for Cathedral Latin High School here, who's only loss tins fall was to the state champions. 
To EDDIE O'BRIEN our sympathy and prayers for his father, recently deceased. 
Don*t forget bo>-s, even, a post card will get you priceless publicity in the paragraphs of your ap­preciative sccrctar>*. 
IQ^ C Frankl>*n C. Hochreiter ITJ 3 702 Scarlett Drive Towson 4, Marj-Iand 
Well, gang, we have missed the last couple times to press because we didn't have mucli ot anything to write about. As a result wc have been saving up our material until it amounted to something. And now wc have it, so here goes! 
A few letters from around the world will make a good beginning and then wc can gel to the miscellaneous information, including tlic financial status of our Class or a report from the Treasurer. 
Late in the spring wc received a news release about JIM MAROHN. He had been elected Vice President for Finance and a Director of the Uni­versal Match Corporation. Jim had just resigned as Vice-President for Finance of the Fairchild Camera and Instrument Corp. 
After graduating from N. D. Jim became as­sociated with the accounting firm of Ernst and Ernst in Pituburgh. During his professional career he has been Treasurer of Noma Electric Co.; Financial \^ce-President of Grufn Watch Co. and Executive ^^cc-President of Magic Chef Corpora­tion. Jim is a member of the American Institute of Accountants and of The Controllers Institute of /Vmerica. 
Word came along during the summer about BOB Cr\RTER'S doctorate in Education from Columbia University. Bob has been Director of Physical Education and Athletics at /Vmarillo Col­lege in Texas for years. Currently he is also a Director of the Nauonal Junior College Athletic Association. 
During World War II, Bob was Director of Physical Fitness at the .\nny Air Force Officer Candidate School tvith the rank of Captain. He now has his Oak Leaves in the Air Force Reser\e. 
Toward fall we received information about an ex '33iir, ED MONTAGNE, who had just been appointed producer of the Phil Silvers Show. Earlier in the year he took over the newly created position of Executive Producer in charge of all film opera­tions for CBS Television in New York. 
Ed joined CBS-T\' in '55 as Super\-isor of film production. Previously, from 1950 to 1954, he had been liead of programing for William Esty and Co., advertising agenc>'. 
In Ed's background are such interesting periods as working as third assistant director for Para­mount Pictures In the Maurice Chevalier fdm, "Bedtime Stor>-." In 1937 he joined AValter Wanger's staff, and from there he spent time with' Edward Small Productions. Major Pictures, and Wait Disne>*. ending up with Hal Roach where he started lo direct in 1942. 
World War H saw Ed as a combat photograph officer spending two years in Italy. He \\-a5 on the .•\nzio beachhead for six weeks and entered Rome the day the /Vmerican forces captured It. His unit was tlie first in Pisa where he Avas mistaken for General ^lark Clark. He almost received the keys to the dty instead of General Clark. 
Reacliing Milan on the day Mussolini was slain, Ed obtained the only motion pictures made of that historic event. Following the war, he returned lo Hal Roach Studios and then went to RKO. Ed directed fifteen pictures for both companies. In 1950 he produced "live** the television series "Man Against- Crime" starring Ralph Bellamy, 
While heading up Easty's programing, he ^vorked on sucli shows as "My Friend Irraa,** "**The Hunter,'* "Show of Shows" and the ''Colgate 
52 Notre Dame Alumnus, Marchy 1958 
MAINE—^The Notre Dame Club of Maine held its inaugural meeting at the home of Ray Geiger in Lewiston on September 7. Those in attendance not only included alumni but also eight new freshmen entering the University. 
Comedy Hour." During the years 1952-54, Ed prouced and directed IDS half-hour filmed TV shows. 
Ed, his wife, and daughter live in Ossing, N. V. It would appear as though the Class of '35 is well represented in the telcx'ision and film indus­tries. Vou will remember our report on MAURIE TOMBRAGEL about a year ago. 
TIic middle of September saw a note arrive from TOM FLYNN out in Hawaii. Tom included copies of letters to a couple of his recent visitors whicli we enjoyed reading. We give to you in part Tom's letter to your Scribe. 
*'We received visits this past year from NORM FREDERICKS, LOU HRUBY and VITTORIO .-VRC-VDI My wife and I thoroughly enjoyed seeing them and theirs. Over these 16 years of our residence in Honolulu wc have been visited by many Notre Danicrs, but few '35ers. Wc certainly hope this year's trend will be continued and augmented. 
"My old buddy, BILL COEN, did not appear in perM>n but he did send along his fine son who was making a trip with some of Iiis relatives, among them the REILLV gang of Notre Dame, St. Mar>*'s and Tucson, Arizona. .Ml of us men­tioned that column of yours, of course, usually with enthusiastic appro^-al. But LOU HRUBY said he had furnished material to you which was un­ceremoniously ignored. I am sure you will be glad to correct any >uch oversight." 
We env>' the gang who are able to get to Hawaii. Unfortunately, our "affairs of slate" don't take us far away from Baltimore, let alone off the continent. .•\s for Lou's material — wc use ever>'thing wc receive. (If you sent us something, Lou, il must have appeared. Wc apologize and ask for a repeat il we goofed. Better, let's have a personal visit.) 
And for you, Tom: wc look lonvard to seeing you and your visitors in '60. Tlianks for the note and the copies. 
In October wc heard from one of the "lost souls" of the class — JIM MERGARDT in Brewster, 
N. Y. Because wc think that you will be inter­ested in everj'thing Jim had to report, wc give you his complete letter: 
"Tlianks for the work you have put into re­porting the activities of the Class of '35 for the last 22 years. I have enjoyed your reports and owe >*ou my gratitude- My contacts with other N. D. men have not been vcr>' numerous but I'll give an account of m>-self. 
"Right now I have a very close connection with the school. Our son. Rod, is a freshman in the College of Commerce. His letters have brought back memories of the wonderful years I had at Notre Dame. Now I'll go back to the beginning. 
"After graduation, I tried to get into tcacliing but without success. I went into my father's busi­ness and have been there since. Dad passed away lost year. Now I own and operate Mergardt's Progress" Market — The Pride of Brewster — not the biggest but the best. 
"GEORGE HILL of our Class was my best man when Jeanctte and I were married 19 years ago last week. A year later 1 returned the favor when he married Jeanettc's maid-of-honor. We have not seen them lately because George was transferred to Houston. Unless there have been any recent changes, he is doing well with DuPont and has three children, two bovs and a girl. 
"GEORGE O'BRIEN from our Class and ED CROTHV of '36 live in Danbur\-, Conn., just ten miles from here and I see them frequently. They both knew Jeanctte long before I did. They grew up ttigcthcr. Gctirge introduced us and I think I really bad to have their okay before she said 'ves.' 
".NfAURICE TOMBR.\GEL and his wife, Yvonne, spent a week end with us several years ago. Vou have already beard ot that from him. In 1940, Jeanctte and I visited N- D. and went down to Trenton, III., to Wsit JOH.N GL^VNZNER and Helen. Wc have not cxclianged many letters but the last Christmas card indicated he has a son, Steve. 
"We had the good fortune to make the trip to that .-Vrmy game in 1947 mth the New York Club and really enjoyed meeting many others from school, but not many from our Class. In your last column JIM KELLY inquired as to my whereabouts. I'll tr\' to write him now that I have gotten started. 
"Tliat's about all for now, except to mention that we also have three more children — all girls 
— Mar>' Lou, 16; Katie Lynne, 14; and Jeanctte, 6." 
It was wonderful hearing from you, Jim, and we are hoping that you won't slop sending us a note from time to time. Our condolence on the death of your father. Don't forget that big 25th Reunion in 1960. We'll expect you to he aboard. 
Late in October CHARLIE M^VHER dropped us a quickie which we thought you would like to read. t Here it is: \ 
'*Just for the record \ve suggest '35 bo>-s have '• *hclpcd' our team by remote cheering in the deep • South to attain their splendid record to date. I I had tlic pleasure of having the Mianii Xotrc Dame Chib at our home for a radio party during the Xotrc Darac-x\rmy ^zsasi and the icsuhant 'whoops* upon completing the field goal were reportedly heard for blocks around. 
*'Last week HERB NADE/VU had a radio party 

: at his home in Coral Gables where wc voiced equal approval in dispatdung the Pitt Panthers. Our sights arc set on X. D. returning for a game with the Miami Hurricanes in 1960." Good tn get your note, Cfiarlie. Sounds like the Florida crowd Is vcr>- much alive. So much for the correspondence from around the world. We'll get to the official letters from the class officers in a moment. Tliis has been the first year in many that COL. DUDLEY did not pay us a visit in August while 
- spending two weeks at Fort George Meade •with his Kentucky Military- Government Company. We can only believe that "J* C." did not come to Meade this past summer because wc know that lie would have found us despite the fact that we were not 
• listed in the telephone dircctor>'. (We came back 
' to life last month with the new dircclor>*)* A call to the old number would have transferred him to the new one in the county. The whole family mtsscd you, ClttT. and did not give up on your coming until Labor Day had come and gone. What happened? Wc were hoping to collar you for those iris roots you promised us a year ago, which never arrived. Remember, you were loaded and were going to ship a few htmdred to . Baltimore? We can still use *em, boy! 
Some weeks ago wc received a phone call from SAM WEST who told us he had been in Baltimore for two months super\*lsing a $110 million construc­tion project at Bethlelicm Steel Co.'s Sparrows Point plant. He just found us in the new phone listing. Sam, with his stafT of engineers, had been living at a downtown hotel, and was able to run back to PitLsburgh most week ends to see the iamiiy. 
During the middle of November Sam called us from a K. of C. oyster roast and aflen^'ard spent the evening with us. It was a pleasant experience and before wc took him back to town we got caught up on many years of professional engineer­ing. Wc give you some of the highlights. 
From 1945 to 1949 Sara was Chief Engineer for Sargent Electric Contractors of Pittsburgh. During 1949 and 1950, he w-as Electrical Design Engineer for the U. S. Steel Corporation's Construction Engineering Bureau. 
As Chief Engineer for the Standard Boiler and Plate Iron Company, Sam rebuilt stx blast furnaces 
One of Notre Dame's most avid football fans is Miss Alice O'Reilly, Ft. Wayne, Ind., an aunt of Bob O'Reilly, *43, and his brother Tom, '44. Miss O'Reilly has seen all of Notre Danie*s home games except two during the past 30 years. She failed to at­tend two games because of illness and haz­ardous road conditions resulting from a severe snow storm. 
for U. S. Steel in the Pittsburgh area and one 
new furnace for tlie National Tube Company In 
Lorain, Ohio. From '51 to '53 Sam was Electrical 
Superintendent for the Koppers Company, con­
structing nine new open hearth furnaces at the 
Fairlcss Works in Morrisville, Pa. 
From 1953 to the present he has been Electrical 
Engineer for Peter Loftus Inc., Consulting Engineers 
of Pittsburgh. 
Sam is looking forward eagerly to seeing all of 
the '35 gang in 1960. 
Last August evcrvone in the class received a long report letter from DAN YOUNGEiaLVN. We would like to point up some of the important high spots of Dan*s letter. 
1) As of July 31, 1957, 145 men had contributed $1.00 or more to the Reunion Fund. 
2) Ninety-eight men had contributed $4.00 or more, qualifying them as being paid up-to-date. That is $2.00 per year for two years. 
3) Foriy-sc\'cn men had contributed less than $4.00, and were considered delinquent and it was hoped that the August letter would bring these men back into the fold. 
4) There was concern over the 350 other members of the Class of '35 w-ho had shown no indi­cation of reaction to the 25th Reunion in terms of making any contribution. 
5) More than the 145 showing Reunion interest Were on campus tor the T^venlieth and Dan urged all of those who returned in 1955 to make their contribution. 
6) Total contributions to July 31, 1957 were $1,147, to which was added the $113.68 balance on hand after the 20lh Reunion. This made a total gross toward the 25th Reunion of $1,260.68. 
7) Total expenses during the two-year period since June 1955 were $256.38. Tim money went for Requiem Masses, stationery, postage and vari­ous sundries. 
8) The balance on hand as of July 31, 1957 w-as $1,004.30. Our 20th Reunion considerably ex­ceeded this amount. Our Silver Anniversary will certainly be more expensive. 
On the first of September we received a report from Dan regarding the rcsidts of his letter. Here is what he said in part: 
"I have received a total of $132.50 in contribu­tions since the mailing. There were ten new con­tributors, bringing up our total to 155. ifoney­wisc a little less than half was from former con­tributors, but $81.00 came from the ten new men.^' (To tliis we can add $10.00 from S/\M WEST which he left with us to forward to Dan.} 
So we give you the U new men who have en­tered their names to the Class of '35 25th Reunion contributors roster: TO.\I WALSH, LINCOLN WURZER, TO.M HILS, JIM GLENN, FRANK KOPPELBERGER, BOB HALEY, JLM MAROHN, JOHN JORD/\N, BILL KEEFE, BOB ROGERS and SA.M ^VEST. 
There you have our finandal status. If our com­putations are correct, and w-e have had no further expenditures, wc stand at $1,146.80. 
We have given you merely the fiscal slor>' in terms of actual bills paid. It would be impossible for us to place a x'alue on the ser^'ices of your class officers who have been carrving the ball, par­ticularly Dv\N' YOUNGERNL\N. The South Bend committee is vcr>- much concerned about our Silver .•\nniversar\', and well they may be. Wc were 500 in '35, some of us have died and others have asked to transfer to our Class roster. Yet. only 31 per cent of our crowd have shown enough interest in their class and in their 25th Reunion to make a contribution toivard it. 
Just in case your memories arc dull as to what happened in '55, or you were not able to make it at all, may wc tell you that it made Notre Dame histor>'. We had the "Rock" for our headquarters. Our Friday night Smoker was tremendous. It was no Smoker In the usual sense — it was a full course catered dinner. The food and drink on a continuous basis throughout the week end was fabulous. The good fellowship was beyond descrip­tion. These are the things to look forward to in '60. The only significant change W'ill be the President's (of tlic University) luncheon for our Class only on Saturdav. This event Is "hosted" by 
N. D. Where are the missing 350? Where is their class spirit? Where is their identification with other Notre Dame men? Has our class shrunk to 
156? Only a check and a note to DAN YOUNGER­M.'VN w'ill tell the stor>-. Two dollars a year — 
MILWAUKEE —Father Glenn Boannan, C.S.C., addressed the Communion Break* fast at St. Charles Boys Home. L. to R.: Brother Lawrence Miller, C.S.C., (partly hidden) superintendent o£ St. Charles; Ray-Sullivan, Milwaukee Club vice-president; Father Boarman, and J. A. Byrne, club pres­ident. 
ten dollars over five years. This is the small price of itlentification with the Class oi 1935, University of Notre Dame; this is the small price we all should be willing to pay to keep the Class of '35" in a leadership position in the Alumni Association. 
Let's pick ourselves up from the floor of lethargy; let's get on the beam. This is OUR REUXIOX— ALL OF US! It doesn't belong to the Chiss Ofliccrs or the South Bend Committee. They are working for the WHOLE CLASS. Please put yourselves in their place — give them your support, ^fake them feel that you are not letting them down; that you appreciate their efforts FOR YOU! They'll work even harder! 
Here are some address changes which we received since last siunmer. JOE ARGUS, 7083 N. PennsyK-ania Ave., Indian­apolis, Ind. PAUL FERGUS, 19239 Summers Dr., South Bend, 
Ind. AL RUBLY, 1135 N. Main St., RocVford, 111. ED KIL.MURRAY, 2718 Douglas Ave., Racine, IVis. JOHN PORCORO, 3-18 Ganger PL, Fair Laivn, 
N. J. DICK PREZEBEL, 1613 Ridge Ave., Evanston. IlL TOM WALSH, Walsh Construction Co., 711 Third 
Ave., New York 17, N. Y. IRWIN DA\aS, 202 N. Studebaker St., South Bend, Ind. JOHN FITZPATRICK, 213 Scott Dr., Monroeville, 
Pa. BOB FOX, 1224 Hillview Dr., Menlo Park, Cal. TO.M HILS, 13 Sunset Rd., East Haven, Coon. JOHN LAFFERTY, 211 Hawthorne .Ave., Elm­
hurst, 111. JLM .MAROHN, Univereal .Match Corp., 400 Paul 
Ave., St. Louis 21, Mo. VIC .METTLER, 8133 Highland PL, Highland, Ind. MAURIE OLSON, 822 S. 23th St., Allentown, Pa. MITCH SALEH, 3354 .MerrcU Rd., DaUas 29, 
Texas ROCCO SCHIRALLI, 37 West 7th Ave., Gary, Ind. BOB CARTER, 128 Prospect PL, S. Orange, N. J. FR:\NK MCLAUGHLIN, nos N. 24th PL. 
Phoenix, Ariz. CHARLIE NOVAK, 19 Grandnew, Hamburg, N. Y. ADOLPHE PONS, Hickory Ave., Bel Air, Md. HARRY ^VUNDERLY, 2615 Sylvan Rd., Cuyahoga 
Falls, Ohio BILL FITZGERALD, 53K Kilmer Lane, Ivc HilU, 
Indianapolis, Ind. JIM McCRALEY, 1737 Belmont, South Bend, Ind. JOHN MONAHAN, 314 W. 4th St., Oxnard, Cal. DICK BALLIET, 1701 S. Outagamie, Appleton, 
\Vis. ED BRACKEN, 1775 Broadwav, Room 1409, New York, N. Y. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 5J 
REV. HENRY GEUSS, C.S.C., Dillon Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. CECIL HOBERT, 866 Helmsdale Rd., Cleveland Heights 12, Ohio BOB KLAIBER, 122 Cumberland Dr., Camp Hill, Pa, JIM MacDONALD, Mt. St, Mar>- College, Em­
miisburg, Md. BILL ^^LLER, Lockman BIdg., Lockport, N. Y. ED SKEEHAN, 305 Arcadia Dr., Pittsburgh 37, Pa. JOHN STANFORD, 3551 AVarick, Dallas 20, Texas 
Two of our gang seem to have been lost since their mail is returning "Unclaimed." Docs anyone know anything about CHARLIE LJ\NDMESSER or MIKE SHEEDY ? Charlie \*-a5 last known to be at American Red Cross, Camp J. H. Pendleton, Oceanside, Cal. j\nd Mikc*s address was 49 Blos­som Health Rd., WilliamsviHe 21, N. Y. The Alumni Office and the Class of '35 would like to have the dope on tlicsc two "lost souls." Please help — someone! 
And there you have our report to the nation. When we started we thought wc had more material. HO^V about making ii twice this long next time to press? 
What have we been doing? "Well, last summer saw us at the Hilltop Summer Stock Tlieairc in "Point of No Return" and the title role in "The Man ^\1io Came to Dinner." In February- we'll be doing "Witness for tlie Prosecution*' with the Vagabonds. Job-wise we are now in the ^ nc^** Community Organization Division of the Baltimore Urban Renctval and Housing .^gencj-. LET'S HEAR FROM YOU! 
From the Alumni Office: DANIEL J. HENRY, was recently elected first v^ce-president oE the Graphic Arts Assooation of Michigan, Inc. Dan is with the Douglas Offset Company in Detroit. CARL \\\ A\'EBER was recently named Manager of Export Sales for the Chemical Division of Central Mills. Carl has been assodated with Gen­eral Mills for 20 years and the Chemical Division for the past three years. He ^vill supervise foreign sales from dixisJonal headquarters in Kankakee, 111­
IQO ^ Robert F. Ervin ' '•'* ' 1329 Kensington Road Grossc Pointe Park, Mich. 
|p^ 7 Joseph P. Quinn 
•'**' P.O. Box 275 Lake Lenape Andover, New Jersey 
(Ed. Note: I-n-t-r-o-d-u-c-i-n-g the one and only JOE QUIN*X who will go dou-n in history (or just down) as the Class Secretary (of 1937), who did the mostest for the bestest between 1957 and our 25th in 1962. To retiring scribe PAUL *SCOOP* FOLEY my personal thanks for a great job, I'm sure that the class shares with me a real ap­preciation for the fine work Paul did for us via the ALUMNUS columns during the past five years. Please give Joe some facts and figures about your­self from lime to time — othenvise he'll have to use his imagination and that's dangerous. John Cacklcy). 
This is a new position for me and needs an explanation. Before going to the 20th year re­union, I sent out election flyers, had radio, press and TV annoimccments made for the position of Treasurer. I tvas even bonded for the job. Tlie last I knew — the wee hours of the morning in Dillon Hall, JACK GILLESPIE was all set to be the Secretary. The elections in the Rockne Memorial ended up in a riot. WILL KIRK, the banker from Dallas, tried his best to control the lads, even LOU ALAMAX put on a new habit, but stOl no order. It took the Executive Vice-President to bring order, but still no final election. Wc c\*cn had ^^'ALT NIENABER and BILL McNALLY agreeing on candidates for a change. Then came a notification that I had been made the new Secretary. A job that I want to ackno\vIedgc the years of work that PAUL FOLEY has put out for all of us. This column to be successful depends on your cooperation in supplying some ol the copy. 
To get back to the reunion party — we awarded many prizes — for almost anything you could think of. PERRY CLAEY S and PAUL SHEEDY (of ^Vildroot) gave out many samples from their firms. RICK FLOOD I believe won the prize for the most added weight getting up to FRANK QUIN­
54 Notre Dame Alumnus, Marchj 1958 
JOHN J. HOBAN, '36 
In 1956 John Hoban took office as State's Attorney of St. Clair County, 111., second largest county in the state. He is the first Republican to hold that office in 13 years and tlie only Republi­can elected in the 1956 general election, running abreast of leading Democrats and 25,000 votes ahead of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, a vote-getter of no small reputation. 
After graduation from the Law School, John joined the firm of Mc-Glynn & McGl^Tin, both of whose part­ners were Notre Dame graduates, in East St. Louis, 111. At the same time, on the recommendation of Ehner Layden, he was hired as a backfield coach by \Vashington University, then coached by Jirrimy Conzelman. 
In 1941 John enlisted in tlie navy as a seaman. By war's end he was a full commander in charge of an am­phibious flotilla in the Southwest Pacific. 
Returning home in 1946, John was appointed Illinois assistant attorney gen­eral. He resigned in 1948 to practice law privately. At the time of hb elec­tion he was considered the outstanding criminal trial lawyer in Southern Illi­nois. He has demonstrated as much brilliance in prosecution as he had in defense. Major crimes in the county have decreased 35 per cent since he took office as prosecutor. 
John is married and the father of a ten-year-old future Notre Dame athlete. 
LAN and JOHN SIL\\VS class. The baldest was a close shave between GENE LING and PETE JOHNEN. For the most kids I believe RAY Mc-GRATH was the winner. The newest arrival came to the CACKLEY household and almost ruined the reunion plans. The Cinc>* contingent arrived en masse — BOB BURKE, WALT NIENABER, BERT SCHLOEMER and JERRY GOHM.\N. Walt had to leave early since he had a daughter graduating— hoiv time flies. ED HUISKING made the trip out and back in a Volkswagen. Tried to get me to ride home with him — no sale. Ed now lives in Mountain Lake, N. J. with his plant located in Lyndhurst — no <:hange in accent was noted. 
Our clergy took good care of us. FATHER BOB LOCHNER said the Memorial Mass with a short sermon, and also said a Sunday Mass for some of the members with Ling assisting. The Latin soimdcd a little rough Jn response. F.-VTHER BILL KUNSCH of Loras College helped the early Sunday birds with a real sliort one — vcrj* easy on, the knees of the hoys who tried to make expenses the night before on their knees. Is the game called "African Dominoes?" F.ATHER JOYCE made a room check Saturday night and was introduced to the participants. 
If you think ALEX SLOAN is noisy and needs a replacement we have one in FR^VNCIS T. Mac-DONALD, formerly known as "Hatpo," yes, also an attorney. Tlie Chicago contingent was well represented with BUCKY JORDAN of the Trih (my roomie for one night), JIM "24 HOUR" HACK, JOHNNY FR/\NCIS, JOE DORGAN, JOHN COYLE (whose family is rapidly growing, but he started later than some), .-\L SMITH, ED GAR\^Y, ARCH GOTT, BILL KENNEDY (land­lord of the club room on the corner in Dillon), NELLY LAMBERT (vcr>' understanding missus— 2 A.M. phone calls, etc.), and the local organizer from the Windy City—BILL STEINKE.MPER and FRED MUNDEE (slimmer than usual) of Cedar Lake, Indiana. 
JACK POWXRS was li\"ing for a while in New Jersej- and associated with Esso in New York City, but by this time is back in Texas with Humble. 
BOBBY SIEGFRIED (Mr. Tulsa), BILL LYNCH, BERNIE NEIZER and AL SCHWARTZ had open house in their corridor room. Speaking oE Al, fol­low through on his letter on the seminar^' fund raising program. Give it to Al's committee before Uncle Sam gets it at the end of the tax period. AI and RALPH a\RDINAL ironed out a lot of problems in the Hard\%'arc game. 
Our press coverage from the west coast i*"as taken care of by JIM BACON, the demon Holly­wood reporter. From Washington, D. C. we had PHIL WELSH, with BILL FOLEY axpecicd any day. If you wish to build a super market in St. Louis contact TOM WHITE and get your building supplies from LOU FEHLIG (who also won tlie golf prize, per usual). Had to visit IL\RRY HEINEMANN' out at school instead of in my area, as his contact here has died. The medics as I recall were GEORGE BATES, ART HOFF­.\JAN and ANTHONY VALVO. 
I know I have overlooked many names, but will try to bring you up to date on the next issue. (Ed. note: List of registrants was printed in the Aug.-Scpt. issue. J.C.) To the committee of HARRY KOEHLER, JERRY CL/\EYS, FATHER , JOYCE, FATHER LOCHNER, KARL KING, JERRY DAVEY and JOHNN-Y CACKLEY we all owe a vote of thanks for a job "well done!" 
The bufi"ct at the Rock was excellent. The extra refreshments were available all hours of the day or night. It was never like that in the '30s. Later events include meeting the banker from Cheyenne, Wyoming, Gordon Murphy for a visit in New York prior to his three-week flying trip to Europe. These lucky single lads. ED REARDON dropped in to see Murph one day. Just heard that the missile program expects to spend $60 million in Cheyenne. At least Sputnik has helped some area. 
I missed the trip to PhiUy for the Army game so can*t report for those lads'. Almost had a stroke during the Oklahoma game. It was rebroadcast as the game of the week and Harry Wismer gave BILL FALLON a blo%v. 
Don't forget to send the news — drop a note on the Christmas card. I'm counting on you to supply the data. 
Cacklcy's Cultural Comments: Tlirce members oE the class, PHIL BOND!, RAY .MARRE and LEO "SKIP" CORMIER have sons at Notre Dame. Phil's offspring is a sophomore while the other t^^'o lads are freshmen. BOB WILKE's daughter is a sophomore at St. Mary's. .Any more candidates for this select list? 
aeutwon 
June 67-8 
CLASS 
'38 

1938 ^^^^^ ^^' Callahan 
Sports Publicity Dcpt. 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
Harold A. Williams 307 Ccdarcroft Road Baltimore 12, Maryland 

From Hal AVilliams: Stacked nest to the typewriter are nearly 100 questionnaires and letters from our far-ranging classmates (from JACK ZERBST in Sao Paulo, Brazil to JOHN \V. HITCHCOX at the Hitchcox Wright Way Drive-In, Rockford, III.) Consequcnily, there is no time, or bpace, for introductions, pleasantries or comments. It's right to the matter at hand. 
Once again, for lack of a better way, we'll start with [he family sweepstakes. In the past issue we reported that DR. TOM HUGHES, of Columbus, Ohio, and "CHUCK" SWEENEY, of South Bend, were leaders, each with nine children. Five class-males had eight each. Thcv were DR. DxVXlEL BOYLE, a\RL JANSKY, JOHN F. CLIFFORD, OWEN KANE and "SWEDE" Bx\UER. 
But now on to the new batch of questionnaires. This time FR.\NK J. .MEYER, of Glendale, Calif., goes into a tie for the lead. He also has nine — five boys and tour girls. Frank works for the engineering department of Northrop Aircraft Co. He says that he Is proud to admit that he "has been able to feed and clothe this family." 
CARL >V. D002.\N, of Saginaw, Mich., lias four boys and four girls. He is an attorney and not too long ago formed a new Iav%' partnenhip and bought an ofBcc building in Saginaw. JOHN L. BUCKLEY, who is in business for himself as a broker in Midland, Texas, has six boj's and two girk. Bob was elected president of the Midland-Odessa N. D. Club and was once president of the Chicago N. D. Club. 
Four classmates reported families of seven children each. Our old friend, BILL GALLIN, oE New Rochelle, N. Y., has five boys and two girls. He says he hopes to enter his oldest boy at Notre Dame in 1959. Bill is president of John Gallin & Sons, Inc., building contractors. CHARLIE METZGER is vice-president of the firm. Another good friend and ex-Baltimorean, HAL LANGTON, now of Haverton, Pa., has four boj-s and three girls. Hal is a high school football coach and district sales manager for a sporting goods firm. He says that he "has yet to lose his first football game in seven years and has yet to catch JIM MURRAY at home." CLIFF TALLM.\N, of Fair­field, Conn., has five boys and two girls. He is New England representative of the Maust Coal and Coke Corp. of New York. He 5a>-s that he is back to the weight he was at graduation. A state­ment few of us can make. 
TOM HUTCHINSON, once the fair-haired boy of Goshen, Ind., now of Bend, Ore., where he works for Moty & Van Dyke, also has seven chil­dren, four girls and three boys. Tom's oldest boy, Steve, enters the University of Portland this fall. Tom, who majored in English ^vith a great deal of assistance from me, is now having dtfiiculty helping his children with their English homework. He writes, "My A,B. degree has caused me no litde embarrassment in my family. Just last night I had to admit to one of the girls that I didn't know that a relative pronoun does not agree with its antecedent in case. Several weeks ago I almost had a fight with tlic Sister Superior over active and passive voice." 
JOHN B. 0*DONNELL, of Pittsburgh, has five girls and one boy. He works for Alcoa and is advertising promotion supervisor- John is the one responsible for putting a sheet of Alcoa Wrap into newspapers in Milwaukee, Houston, Chicago and Philadelphia. RAY MEYER, basketball coach for DePaul University in Chicago, has three boys and three girls. Ray, vvho lives In Oak Park, also coaches the College All-American against the Globe­trotters in their annual cross-country tour. "CHUCK" BOROWSKI, of South Bend, has three boys and three girls. His oldest is in the Marines. 
Chuck is captain of the vice squad and in charge of spea'al investigations for tlie South Bend Police Force. He writes, "I'm still active in sports— ofiidating in football. Apparently CHARLIE CAL­Lc\H^\N doesn't read the Soutli Bend Tribune. I'm a captain in our police department." Charlie, please note. JOHN C. O'CONNOR, our senior class president, has three boys and three girls. And after girls he has a plus mark followed by a ques­tion mark- Johnny is a partner in the law firm of Craig Ruckclshaus, Reilly &. O'Connor. With that combination the bo>-s ought to hit ever>' na­tionality group. 
DR. JOHN C. LUNGREN, of Long Beach, Calif., has three boys and three girls. He specializes in internal medicine. During the 1932, 1954- and 1956 election tours he was Vice-President Nixon's personal ph>-5ician. PAUL C. HUGHES, of Flint, has four girls and one boy. He is trustee of a large estate in Flint and spends his time buying and selling property, handling contracts and mortgages. In 1953-54 he was president of the Notre Dame Club of Flint. CHARLIE MORROW, of Louisville, has three girls and two bo>-s. He is central district sales manager for the Kroehlcr Manufacturing Co. of Kentucky, a furniture manufacturer. CLARK REYNOLDS, that old smoothie, lives in Mountain Lakes, N. J. He has five boys. Clark is assistant general sales manager for Union Bag Camp Paper Corp. PAUL H. i\NDERSON, of Pittsburgh, has three girls and two boys. He is a Duquesne University professor. LEN SKOGL/VNDi who lives in LaGrange Park, 111., has four bo>-s and one girl. Len is vice-presi­dent and treasurer of Scully Jones & Co. He notes on the bottom of his questionnaire that he has just returned from a bmincss trip to Europe. ED MATTINGLY, of Cumberland, has three boys and two girls. He is in business for himself as a food and beer distributor. He spends whatever time he can get on a golf course. JACK MOULDER, of South Bend, has four girls and one boy. Jack is president of ifoulder Xfolor Co., which, he sa>*s, is being liquidated to form a new company. He says "I know we're getting old. High school kids now call me Mr!" JOHNNY THULIS, of Chicago, 
has three girls and two boys. He is with the sales department of Schenley Import Co. 
TOM SHEILS, writing from the fabulous city of Hollywood, Calif., says, "I am in the personal management business representing various TV and theatrical pcHormers. My business takes me to New York quite frequendy where I have an office and a partner. Each time I go East X try to ar­range a stopover in South Bend, but something always prevents it. I guess I haven't been back to the campus in 17 or 18 years. But I'll be there for the reunion and I hope to see a lot of our mutual friends. Incidentally, you tagged GEORGE *HOOK* KERWIN in error. There is only one 'Hook* Kenvin and that is Lawrence J. from Shaker Heights, Ohio. In your old age you are probably getting a little confused." Tom writes ­that he has seen GENE VASLETT, ERNIE M.\URIN (bumped into him at Las Vegas) and TOMAfY ATKINSON who is living, evidently, in the Los Angeles area. Tom, who has lived in California for lO years, has four boys and a girl. His home address is 17250 Parthenia Street, North-ridge, Calif. His Holl>-wood office address is 1459 Seu-ard Street; New York address: 120 Central Park South. 
PAUL R. LOCHER, of Washington, D. C, has three boys and a girl. He is assistant professor of history at Georgetown. TED W. TREF2ER, of Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich., has four boys. He is secretary and a partner in the Superior Pattern and Manufacturing Co. He writes, ".. . Have been a successful Little League manager. Winner of league championship last two years, and finalist in Gross Pointe tournament. Improved golf game, and still hold my own with any of the bowlers." 
TOM RINI, JR., has two girls and two boys. He lives in Shaker Heights, Ohio, and is a produce commission merchant with the firm of Thomas M. Rini Co. CHARLIE DUKE, now of New Orleans, is the father of t^vo bo>-s and two girls. Charlie, one of the best looking fellows in our Class, is now the director of aviation in New Orleans. He formerly had a similar title in South Bend where he developed the St. Joseph County (South Bend) airport into one of the finest ones of its size in 
The 1957 Peace Award of the Catholic Associadim for Intamadonal Peace was presented by the president of the association, Harry .W. Flannery, '23, (second from left) to Father Raymond A. McGowan (right), one of the founders of the association, at the 30th con­ference in Washington. Bernard Weisman, advisor on labor and minorities affairs to the 
U. S. Information Agency, newly elected vice-president, and Msgr. George Higgins, director of the Sodal Action Dept^ NGWC, look on. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 55 
the country-, W. L. APPAL, of Florissant, Mo., is 
thc father of tlircc boys and a girl. He is a miUi»s 
niacliine operator witli the McDonnell .-Vircraft 
Corp. 
DAN COCHRAN is now in Wheeling, W. Va., 
where hc is a member of the real estate firm of 
Hazlclt, Cocliran and Hannig. Hc has two girls 
and a hoy. In thc same mall came a questionnaire 
from Dan's old friend CHARLES M. "CHICK" 
G.\LLAGHER. "Chick" lives in Millon, Mass.. 
and is president and treasurer of tlic ^\^ncllcstc^ 
Brick Co., whicli is in Windicster, Mass. Tlic 
questionnaire for DR. VINCENT ALVN SHERROD 
was sent in by his wife "because Alan's always 
busy." She writes that Alan is practicing medicine 
in iraan, Texas, and that they have three bo>-s and 
a girl. She also reports that Alan has won several 
races in sports cars, built a new clinic building and 
is sending his oldest sons to a school run by tl^c 
CS.C.'s JOE MOORE is in Grand Rapids, Midi., 
where he ^vorks as a "bearing peddler" for tlie 
Detroit Ball Bearing Co. Hc has two bo>-s and 
two girls. Hc reports, "I'm Just beginning to 
get gray." 
F. A. (ART) MULHERN is living in Glen Kidgc, N, J., and working for thc Port of New York Authority*. Hc has two bo>'s and two girls. 
H. J. M.ACKIN, JR., is sales manager for thc Mackin Venetian Blind Co. in Kankakee, III. Hc has two bo>-5 and two girls. JOE THORNBURG is working as a pharmadst for thc Pharmaceuticals Co. in Ro>-3l Oak, Mich. Hc has two bo>-s and a girl. C. VICTOR BECK, JR., known to all as Vic in his college days, is a la^v•>'er with the firm of Cobum, Yager, Notnagd, Smith and Beck in his homciouii, Toledo. Hc has two boys and a girl. EDGAR B. BERNARD is president and part owner of the Darccy Implement Co., of WatcrtowTx, "Wis. DA\TS CONNOR is general freight agent for tlie .-Vcmc Fast Freight company and lives in Lake­wood, Ohio. Hc has t*vo girls and a boy. CAS VANCE, who hdpcd make living in old Badin Hall and thc basement of Lyons sub more delightful, is chief accountant for the Diamond Matdi Co. Hc lives in BrookljTi and lias two girls and a boy. 
DONALD L. S.MITH is traffic engineering supcr­\isor for the City of Miami. Hc writes, "Got severely bitten by thc sports car bug. Have owned an MG, and am noiv on my second Jaguar. 1 drive in SCC.\ races whenever they are held in thc Miami area. I have hauled home some trophies, .And thru it all I have managed to remain mar­ried." JACK CUDMORE is the plant and prop­erty accountants for thc Carborundum Co. in Niagara Falls, N. Y. Hc has two girls and a bo>*. Jack sent a vcr>- nice letter with his questionnaire. Hc sa>-s, "As of October 1 I'm turning in my teeth on a new set of dioppers." His suggestion for reunion actirities is "to charge admission to sec my new teeth so I can pay for them." MELVIN E.' LAMBRECHT is technical director of "Rascal," a guided missile project for thc Air Rcseardi and Development Command, \\'right-Pattcrson AFB, in Da>-ton. In addition to this he has also served as a Sunday School superintendent. Hc has tlirec boys. 
TOM FITZGERALD is central regional sales manager and assistant to thc marketing Wcc-prcsi­dcnt for P. R. MalIor>' & Co. Hc lives in Indi­anapolis and has two boys. £D SNELL is project engineer for thc engine diWsion of Caterpillar Tractor Co. in Peoria, III. Hc writes, '^Occasionally I can beat my wife at golf." C. ED^VARD Mc-DONOUGH lives in Parkcrsburg, \V. Va., where he is practicing \a.\\\ He has two boys and a girl. TOM WUKOVrrS is industrial relations manager for the steel products division of Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. at A\'>"andotte, Mich. Hc lives in Trenton, Midi. Tom has three bo>-s. BOB H.ACK­MAN works for thc Cavanaugh Co. in Youngstown, Ohio. He has one son. FRANK J, 0*L/VUGHLIN is presid(uit of the Commander Manufacturing Co. of Chicago. Hc lives in Wilmettc and lias a boy and a gtrl. GEORGE R. L.AURE is president and owner of the W. L. ^folding Co. of Kalamazoo, Mich. Hc has one boy and t^vo girls. CHARLES 
M. BROWN is an ardiitcct, in business for him­sdf, in Indianapolis. He has a boy and a girl. 
TOM GRAXTS is a partner with Haskins & Sells and lives in Grccnwidi, Conn. He has a son and daughter. PHIL KIRCH is Wcc-president of the River VaIIc>- Finance Co. of Davenport, Iowa. Hc has two bo>-s and a giri. PAT STILLISANO is in Willoughby, Ohio. Hc and bis brotlicr own and operate a bowling alley and tavern, Pat, who has two girls and a boy, had Just finished building a new house. ED Ht\GER is in business for him­self in South Bend, rebuilding, repairing and tuning pianos. ABE 20SS, another South Bcdd boy, is now in St. Paul where hc is manager of manu­facturing administration for thc T^linncsota ^fining 
56 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 2958 
LUIS BELTRANENA, JR., *47 

Businessman. Ia\v>'er, diplomat, po­litical leader, Luis Beltranena will prob­ably be remembered best for his lead­ership in tlie dramatic overthrow of Communist tyranny in his beloved Guatemala. 
Luis first became kno\vn as an or­ganizer of the opposition to the Red regime of Jacobo Arbenz Guzman. He led the fight in the Guatemalan Con­gress against the Communist Agrarian Law and authored the basic Agrarian Plan later carried out by liberator Carlos Castillo Armas. 
He was bom in Paris but reared and schooled in law in Guatemala. He was admitted to the Bar and entered Notre Dame in 1944, with a Bishop O'Hara fellowship to receive a Ph.D. in Political Science. Returning to Guatemala, he became secretar>' of the Anti-Com­munist Party. As Deputy Mayor of Guatemala City he tanglcd with the Reds and was exiled, only to join the rebel forces of Lt. Col. Castillo Armas. 
Returning to Guatemala with the Army of Liberation,- Luis was appoint­ed Ambassador to EI Salvador but pre­ferred to go to New York as a trainee with Chubb & Son, Insurance Under­writers, while representing Guatemala as a Delegate to the United Nations. 
Now in Havana managing the Fed­eral Insurance Co. of Cuba, Luis is Attache to the Guatemalan Embassy. Having married Renee Orive Goubaud at Notre Dame in 1945, he now has three voimsc sons. 
and Manufacturing Co. Hc has two boys and a 
girl. 
DR. ALBERT R. DRESCHER is a docior of dental surgery- in Oklalioma City, Al has edited the State Dental Journal for six years, been chief of the dental department of thc University of Oklahoma Medical Center, associate professor of dental surgery at thc U. of O. Medical School and chief of dental services at Mercy Hospital. He has two girls and a boy. His wife died on Janu­iry 31, 1957. 
BROTHER BEDE STADLER, C.S.C., is assist­ant principal and librarian at Catholic Central High Sdiool in Monroe, Mich. PAUL BR/\DLEY NOTT is secretary*, stockholder and director of the Frank 
II. Nott Co. of Ridimond, Va. He was president of the Richmond Host Lions Club in 195G-57, is now on tlie executive committee of Tlie Boys Club ol .\mcrica. He has one son. LEO R. BOVLE is trust officer for the Calumet National Bank of Hammond, Ind. Hc Hvcs in Munstcr, Ind., has a son and daughter. REV. VICTOR P. FROHNE is pastor of St. Paul E\'angclical and Reformed Church in LaPorIc, Ind. He was president of the Michigan-Indiana synod of the church and is a director of the Y.M.C.A., the Fair\new Community Hospital and Mental Health Unit. He adds, "I have ordained my older son into the Christian. ministr>*. He is thc fourth generation of pastors." EMERY A. "BUD" SHERWOOD, my roommate for four years at Notre Dame, is treasurer for the city of Flint, Mich. "Bud," whose first wife died about six years :^o, writes, "I've remarried, ac­quiring not only a beautiful wife but a 17-ycar-old stepson. And now I'm thc father of a lanky tw€>­ycar-old son who is being taken for my grandson. I am not as old as I look in spite of my gray hair and grandfatherly appearance. I have been promoted to Lieut. Commander in the Supply Corps of the U. S. Naral Reserve. Have taken up a HCTv hobby: raised thc roof and finished off tlie upstairs of our house and am now in the process of constructing a recreation room in the basement,*' 
LOUIS J. DUNN is executive news editor of the Times Herald in Port Huron, Mich, He has one daughter, OTTO SCHERER is sccrctari­ircasurcr of Assodated Baby Services, Inc. (na­tional laundry, diaper service and Hnen supply business). Hc lives in Englewood, N. J. and has two girls and a boy. Hc is a member of the Board of Education of Englewood. JOE BATTAGLIA lives in Ordiard Park, N. Y. Hc has coached at three different prep schools — Nichols Prep, St. Joseph's and Canisius High School, as an assistant, each with a championship team. He also is a foreman w-ith the Buffalo Hammer Mill Corp. Hc has a daughter and son. 
a\RLETON MACDOUGALD is operating a package liquor store in Edgcwood, R. I. Carleton reports that hc hopes to attend thc reunion if his health permits. I know that c\'er>-onc is rooting that he makes it. Carleton has three girls. "Not bad," he writes, "for a guy who got married at the age of 33; thc three were bom in 27 months." JOHN TROSKOSKY is a nce-prcsident and ac­count executive of the Rumrill Advertising Agcnc>* of Rochester, N. Y. He lives in Pal­mvTa, N. Y, and has two daughters. He writes, "I now look like Yul Brynner with glasses. I bumped into STEVE DIETRICH not long ago; he is advertising manager of Cue ^fagazine in New York. Steve still looks as handsome as ever and would make a good double for Kirk Douglas.*' LARRY EBY is senior market development engi­neer for Enjay Co., of Elizabeth, N. J. He lives in Linden, N. J. and has two girls. He is national councilor of the American Chemical Sodety, na­tional membership chairman of tlic American Insti­tute of Chemists and diairman-clcct of the New Jersey diaptcr of the American Institute of Chemists. 
FR/\NK J. DEL/VNEV, JR. is secretary-treasurer of tlic Midwest Biscuit Co. of Burlington, Iowa. Hc has two bo>-s. JOHN ^\^ HITCHCOX is owner-manager of thc Hitchcox Wright ^Vay Drive-In of Rockford, 111. He has t\\o girls. JACK 2ERBST, ^vho in those far off days was captain of the fencing team, is now regional director of the Union Carbide International Co. with Iteadquarters in Sao Paulo, Bra^. He has one son. Jack writes "have subsisted on rice and beans." If ever there was a misstatement that is it. Thc last time I saw Jack he ^vas one of thc best-fed and most prosperous looking individuals it has ever been my pririlcgc to admire. I have it on good authority tliat Jack will be the first of his dassmates to reach thc §1,000,000 plateau, 
DICK SCANNELL is an account executive with McCann-Erickson and lives in Fairfield, Conn. He has three boys. Dick passes through Baltimore and Washington now and then and I cither hear from him directly or througli some of the Sim's advertising people. TOM BOND is secretary of Hendrick Piano, Inc., and lives in ^Valnut Creek, Calif. He has a boy and a girl. JIM CARSON is a buyer for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. He lives in Indianapolis, his home town, and has two boys and a girl. He writes, "Thoroughly enjoyed directing a junior baseball league of 330. But I did not enjoy building a home that was inundated while under construction, nor completely wrecking our car." JOHN GORM/\N is a manufacturers representative working for John J. Gorman & Co., of Detroit, serving the automotive industry. John, certainly one of the best looking fellows of the class, is still single! L. G. HESS is group leader in the development department for the Union Car­bide Chemical Co. in South Charleston, Vf. Va. 
FATHER ELWOOD E. CASSEDY is founder and superintendent for the Home on the Range for Boys at Sentinel Butic, North Dakota. The home is for homeless and neglected boys of all races and creeds. He writes that the Fraternal Order of Eagles have offered to assist in erecting a much-needed recreation building. And he adds that one of his homeless boy's, an Indian, was co-captain of the Beach High, Beacli, N. D. football team and is also a star in basketball and other sports. If any of you fellows could send any financial help to Father Casscdy I'm sure he would be doubly ap­preciative since it would be coming from Notre Dame men. 
GEORGE SCHL.\UDECKER is president of the Maumec Chemical Co. of Toledo. He has three sons. The next questionnaire was from JACK ANTON, "The Deacon." He is \-ice-president of the Boothe Leasing Corp. of San Francisco, with ofHces in Chicago. For all classmates with eligible daughters, one word of caution. Anton is still single. He w-rites, "I'm proud to admit that I've lost weight and held my h:urline. I can't get over the fact that so many of my class are bald and rather old in appearance and activities. I seem so much younger than the other *38ers." Jack notes that he has bumped into many classmates, and he adds, "They- all seem so much older than self. 'BUNNY* McCORiHCK is the richest man in Livcrmorc. JOHNNY O'CON'NOR is the future Governor of Indiana." 
JOE ROWE is assistant director of Health and Physical Education for the Board of Education in North Falls, N. Y. He has a son and daughter. FR.ANK PRUSHA is in business for himself in Chicago. He has a son and daughter. JAMES 
F. SERNETT is factorj* manager for the Minne­sota-Iowa di^-ision of Green Giant Co. and lives in LeSueur, Minn. He reports that he has just moved there from Montgomery*, Minn, where he was a plant manager. He has one daughter, 10 years old. THOMAS P. FOY is an attorney, city attorney for Bayard, New Mexico and a director of the Grant County State Bank. He was a dis­trict attorney, district governor for Lions Inter­national and department judge advocate for the V.F.AV, He has t^^'o boy's and a girl. 
BROTHER JAMES, C.S.C., was, until quite re­cently at the Holy Cross High Scliool in East Pakistan where he was leaching in mission schools. For nearly, six years he was headmaster at St. Gregor>-'s School in Dacca. He also has helped prepare and edit two Anglo-Bengali books for new* missionaries. After mid-December his address is 4501 Cullen Drive, Cleveland 5, Ohio. 
MAURICE D. O'HERN, who says that he is a synthetic graduate of 1938 because he finished a year ahead of Ids class, is works engineer for the American Steel Foundries and lives in Munster, Ind. He has a boy and girl. 
-And, just as we were getting ready to round this ofT, the mailman pops in with one more question­naire. You guessed it — from CHi\RLES MARTIN C\LLAHAN- He writes, "I'm sorry to be late, but I'm always late. ED CRONIN ivill be the general chairman of the reunion and will appoint his committees." Charlie mentions that he has one son, Mike, age three, but, with cliaracteristic modesty, he did not say anything about the three-page at tide he got in the South Bend Tribune Magazine in October. The article was entitled, "When Notre Dame Football Facts Are Concerned Chariie Callalian IS THE MAN WITH ALL THE A.NSWERS." The article, a glowing tribute to Charlie as a public relations man, football expert and Notre Dame fan, concludes with this anecdote, "In 1947 Callalian had a throat operation. /\s he lingered in the anaesthetic twilight, his nurse at­tempted to revive htm. Leaning over she tapped his cheek and said, 'Air. Callahan, your wife is here.' The inert form never stirred. Again she tried, *Mr. Callahan, Johnny Lujack is here.' Her patient's eyes flew open and the struggle back to conscious­ness was on." 
Now for a tew other matters. The Alumni Office passes along word that JOE MOORE, \ice-president of the Detroit Ball Bearing Co., was re-elected president of the Anti-Friction Bearing Distributors /\ssociation. And then, from tliat great guy DON HICKEY, who is the on-the-spot reporter in South Bend for these notes, three different letters. OWEN K.ANE, he says, showed up at South Bend for the Indiana and Navy games, was also at the Purdue game at Lafayette and w'as going to the Army game in Philadelphia. JOE CORCORAN and DR. DENN'Y EMAf^VNUEL attended the Pitt game, BOB MAZANEC and "his lovely bride" were at Notre Dame for the lo^va game. Don also sent along a dipping from the South Bend Tribune concerning the paper's All-Twin City football team. JOHN MURPHY, coach of John Adams High School was accl^med for the third straight year as the honorary coach of this All-Star team on the basis of his record against twin-city ri%'als. And, adding to that honor, John's son Dennis, an end, was picked on the all-star team. Congratula­tions, John. 
In the questionnaire I asked you to suggest can­didates tor the ALUMNUS Spotlight feature. The one who got more votes than anyone else was, you guessed it, FATHER JOE RACE who probably qualifies as the most-loved and popular fellow jn the class. JACK SCOTT, former mayor of South Bend, drew the next highest number of votes. Others nominated were: E. A. Sher%%'ood ("he's doing a terrific job as City Treasurer in Flint"), JOE KUIL\RICH ("for his outstanding coaching job with the Washington Redskins"), H/VL LANG-TON's wife (nominated by Hal—"for ^^ifc of a poor man she does a millionaire's job"), BILL RILEY ("he's president of two banks, president of a Notre Dame Club, does terrific job In many char-ities"),"CHUCK" BE.VSLEY ("he is director and vice-president of a subsidiary-of American Can Co."), WALT DUNCAN ("he quietly works for Notre Dame"), W. J. MEHRING ("he was always a swell guy and has been outstandingly successful as a family man and in his position with Com Prod­ucts Co."), GEORGE MORRIS ("he's now second man in charge of General Motors labor rdations staff and a sure vice-president in a few years"), BILL MEHRING (again, and this time the reason —"he's so photogenic." Bill, I'll give you a hint on the man who ^^Tote that; he's your old room­mate, George). 
Also, "T-BONE" MAHONEY ("has outstanding dramatic record as prosecuting attorney in Phoenix, Arizona"), "S\VEEDE" BAUER ("he has done so much for Catholic Action"), WALT MON*TECELLI ("he has prepared himself solidly, four degrees, for his responsible position with the Koppcrs Co."), 
FRANCIS J. MEYER ("his interest in N. D. plus his position with Northrop"), JOHNNY O'CON­NOR ("he's liquor commissioner of lodijuiapolis"), BOB LEONARD ("just becuz"), BERNARD CUL­LEN ("his quiet reputation in art cirdes in Chicago"), TOM GRAVES ("because of his ad­vancement"), JIM BEAUDWAY ("because of his success and popularity^'), LEN SKOGLUND ("family and achievements"), JACK BORGMAN ("he is still with the FBI in the Long Beach Port area"), AL LeBLANC ("haven't seen or heard from him since 1939"), "HUB" KIRGHMAN — two votes—("because of his outstanding perform­ance at the I5th reumon" and, from another class­mate, "because, he is, beyond all doid>t, the most unusual member of the class"). 
GEORGE J. McDERMOTT, facetiously sug­gested himself for the Spotlight ^'because I fed I'm the first grandfather of the Class of 1938." 
Three suggested any or all of the dassmates. JACK SOLON wrote, "I'd like to see all of them featured because the/re all leading dtuens of a leading dty in the U.S." PHIL KIRCH put it this way, "I'd like to sec anyone of us featured. Perhaps we have no financial u-izards, but we ha^-e tons of good family men." And "SWEDE" BAUER says, "I'd like to see any *38er featured in Spot­light Alumnus. They've done more on their own for country, church, Notre Dame and family than any other group that I know of." 
ED SNELL makes this interesting observation, "I'd like to sec no more success stories of com­pany heads whose presidency was handed down by papa." 
Now for the reimion suggestions. First, the seri­ous ones. A number suggested a Ihtemorial Mass. ;Vriles JOHN LEADBETTER, "Have a Mass said for our deceased dassmates and members of our families. I lost a fine 14-year-old boy this spring. I'm sure others have lost loved ones also." FATHER JOE RACE writes, "I am planning to have Mass for all the members of our class and thdr families, both living and dead. I'm praying for the success of a happy reimion of our dass." 
GENE SMITH, of Brooklyn, suggests group transportation to Notre Dame from New York in a chartered plane or railroad car. RUSS LONGON suggests "Show the fihns of the Notre Dame-Ohio State game of 1936." PAUL HUGHES wants to start early on plans to get the biggest re­union in the history of Notre Dame. MIKE CROWE wants to start the reunion by re-intro­ducing all dassmates. He adds, "it's embarrassing to talk to so many and not remember their names." DON S.MITH suggests "just enjoy oursdves with a minimum of speeches and a maximum of in­formal relaxation." SCOTTY REARDON pro­posed, "All go to bed by 3 A.M. I can still hear those beer cans down Morri&scy corridors four 
AKRON—Pat Canny was guest speaker at a recent club meeting. Left to right arc Brother Noel, C^.C, Bob Kapisb, club vice-preadent; Father O'Ndl, chapbin; and G. H. Klein, club president.' 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 57 
years back." GEORGE McDERMOTT, the grand­
lalhcr, writes, *'Lct's get a couple of good nights 
sleep!" ED SXELL sa>-s, *'Sce if wc can't drink 
less beer than any other class of recent years, ilore 
socializing and spiritualizing." JACK SOLON 
suggests ''Spend most of our time on the campus, 
but have one nice dinner party at the Morris Inn 
or a downtown hotel. Tlie thing we missed at tlie 
last reunion was a really ntcc affair in an air-
conditioned atmosphere." DICK GERL wants 
**somc afternoon activity that would include the 
drives, otiicnvise follo^v" program of last reunion, it 
was very s3lisfaclor>'." 
DON CURRIER writes, "It might be a good 
idea to arrange a gathering at Rosie's International 
Casino (is it still there?), to stage an old-fashioned 
Donnybrook at Roscland (hope the name is right, 
niemorics come to life, but details fail), the joint 
on Highway 31 occasionally Ircquenlcd by the 
Walsh Hall Cross-Counlry trackmen .. . To have 
special prayers of Tlianksgiving tliat many of us 
attended Notre Dame and were graduated before 
the tougher scliolastic standards were introduced 
(FR.\NK BRIGHT, JACK 0»LE/\RY, ED AVRAPP 
and the icw other really smart ones can nurse 
their beers at the Oliver while tliis worthy func­
tion is performed) .. . to provide some large 
t>pe song sheets for the Midnight Scrcnaders on 
the Rockne Memorial Promenade ... " 
JACK ZERBST suggests '*each one make a spcecli on 'why I didn't make that million' and have the millionaires buy all the drinks." NICK L.\MBERTO wants to give a prize for the tallest tale, a la Wisconsin liais club. JOHN THOMAS wants to have a good poker party. BOB ^VTESTER wants to "have a ball." GEORGE KER^V^N says merely, "Forget golf." PHIL KIRCH sums up the reunion suggestions tliis w-ay, "I'm easy to please, you name it—I'll be for it,*' 
JACK ANTON says, "Let's drink for a change. Let's talk about the old da>-5 . . . ^CisHawaka ^fartha and Palais Peg . . . Let's show pictures of our grandchildren (I'm single but I enjoy looMng). In other words, let's have a bang-up time like we always have had in the past." 
And tliat's it for this time, kids, except for two short paragraphs. 
First, our fourth diild—our fourth girl—u-as born November 15. I wanted to name the child Pietro­sante. As I said to my wife he's a great fullback, and the name is distinctive. But my wife, who is not a football fan, said no. Baby-'s name: Julie. 
And, most important of all, if there is to be more '38 class notes in the next issue someone will have to write, Tlic burden is on those who have not yet answered the questionnaires. 
From the Alumni OfSce: PAUL NOAVAK can now be reached at 146 I07tli Avenue, Treasure Island, Florida. 
1939 J^^^ ^- ^fotschall 
Singer-Motschall Corp, 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 
It's 3 good thing I'm in the printing business because it seems the only \vay I can gather infor­mation from the class is to piint a questionnaire for your convenience . . . however the important thing is that most of you are using them, the first and second ones, so I will continue to print tlicm as long as you continue to use them. 
The first letter was from FRANK R. PFAFF, who is a technologist with the Esso Standard Ba>'\\-ay Refinery. Frank has two sons, Frands, 14, and Richard, 10. Frank saw BILL METRAILER, who is working for the Esso Standard Oils in Baton Rouge and Bill not only collects sports trophies for hand ball and tennis but also fzhildren .. . he has five. (How about direct correspondence from you Bill?) 
FRANCIS X. BRADLEY, JR. is now back on campus as the assistant dean of the graduate school. He lives in South Bend with his wife and fi\-e fine children, Patricia, 15; Mike, 12; Joe, 9; F. X. 3rd, 5, and Chris, 3. Francis passes on the info, that LT. COL. iUT T MERKLE has just taken over the ROTC-AF on. the campus . . . that ED GRIMES works at the Pentagon as cirilian chief of aircraft propulsion division. You're one fellow we can count on for our reunion in '59. 
TOM ROCHE now lives in Columbus, Ohio where he is a group supervisor for the >(etropolitan Life Insurance Company. Tom has a fine family consisting of Mar>* Eileen, 8; Tommy, 6; Vir^nia Xfaric, 4; Patricia Aim, 3, and a new one bom in September, Sharon Louise, now three months old. Tom has run into the following boys: TED FRERICKS, a la\\->cr in Marian, Ohio; JOHN 
HAROLD J. MARSHALL, '29 
A varied and distinguished banking career continued to unfold when Har­old J. Marshall, president of tlie Manu­facturer's National Bank of Troy, N. Y.. became president of the National Bank of Westchester, \Vliite Pl^ns, N. Y., last September. He was elected in the summer by the bank's board of direc­tors, which also voted him a direc­torship. 
A native of Moberly, Mo., Harold began his banking career with the Council Bluffs Sa^nngs Bank, Council Bluflfs, Iowa, during high school and college vacations. After graduation from Notre Dame he worked \vith the Council Bluffs Bank until his appoint­ment as an assistant national bank ex­aminer. Later he became a vice-presi­dent and director of the Central Na­tional Bank of Canaj'oharie, N. Y. He served as secretary of the New York State Bankers Association from 1939 to 1944, tlien joined Bankers Trust Company of New York as an assistant vice-president. In 1950 he joined Manufacturer's National as a vice-president and director. He was elected executive \dce-president and in 1954 be­came president. 

Harold is married to tlie former Margaret Hanson of Council Bluffs. They have three cliildren: a son, Lynn, a 1950 Notre Dame graduate; a daugh­ter, Shirley Anne, now married, and a son, Thomas attending Clark Uni­versit}\ 
SAVORD, la\*-ver in Sanduskv, Ohio; "CHUB" 
HALL in Columbus, Ohio; and BERNIE FEENEY 
in ^liami, Fla. 
JULIUS R. KRISTAN lives in Wallingford, Conn, with his wife and eight grand children who arc Noel, 15; Mike, 14; Hilary, 13; Kathy, 13; Rita. 7J4; Stcvie, 6; Teresa, 2*/*; Christopher, 2 months. Julius owns a groccrj- store and it is a good thing with all those cliildren to Iced. Julius tells me tliat JOHN TOOMEY owns a religious goods store. BILL PIEDMONT has seven cliildccn, and PAUL KLUDING works for tlie Middle Atlantic Trans­portation Company . . . how about a letter, fel­lows? Julius would like to hear especially from F.VTHER FRED DIGBY. 
ALBERT G. DEN*TEN is a physician of internal medicine at Skokie, 111., where he lives with his wife and two sons Grant, 5, and Paul, 3. M sees CHESTER G.-VJEWSKI who also is a doctor and who has four fine cliildren. (How about a quick note. Doctor Chct?) M would like to hear from VINCEN~r TURLVNO and ED PAL/\NK. j 
JOHN E. SULL1V/\N, JR. lives at River Porest, 

III. witli his wife and four cliildren, two daughters and two sons. Tlicy arc Darby, 14; Jack, 12; Jim, j 8, and Shclia, 6. By tlie time you read tliis there will be another Sullii'an heir, burn sometime in I December 1957. John works for the Chicago Car Advertising Co. — transportation advertising that vou sec in buses and street cars. If BILL HOFER reads this — write to John; he would like to hear from you. 
EDWARD M. S.VDOWSKI is a manager of pro­duction engineering in Marion, Ind., where lie lives with his - wife and five cliildren, John L., 13; Micliael E., 11; Anne E., 9; Mar>- Jo, 8; Edward M., 10 monttis. Ed would like to hear from PAUL DE CIL-VR.ME and the gang who roomed at Carroll Hall. 
RICH.\RD J. AN"rON, who lives in Scarsdale, 

N. Y., witli his wife Louise and five children, John, 14; Patricia, 12; Mary, 10; Christine, 6, and Luf\nn, 3 months. Richard is the Administrator— Union Relations Research and Planning for the Gen­eral Electric Companv. Dick would like to hear from VLNCE DE COURSEY, JI.M WALSH, GEORGE NEUAUNN, JACK BENEDICT and all classmates in the vicinity of Scarsdale. Hope to see you for the reunion. 
Received a short note from NICK ME^\GHER who is with the Bank of Vernal, Vernal, Utah. Thanks for the clicck — will forward it to Father Cax-anaugh, who is in cliargc of the N. D. Foun­dation. 
ANOY FELKER is in the Steel Fabrication busi­ness in Marchficld, 'Wis., where he li%'cs with his wife and two daughters, Susan, 8, and Barbara, 3. Andy would like to hear from FRED SISK, ROD TRUESDALE, BERNIE FEENEY, BILL ^VHERN < and HARRY SCHROEDER. Andy has been most active in church affairs. He belongs to the C.F.M. (Christian Family Movement) and the Serra Club. I personally haven't heard of cither one . . . would like any printed material on tliem so w*c could j possibly start one here in Detroit. 
DONALD K. DUFFY is a process designer at i Du Font's Engineering Department. Don has four fine cliildren. Donna, 14; Jimmy, 12; Kenny, 8, and Bryan, 4. Don sees JACK DEVINS, BILL MURRAY and PAUL BORGNLAN who are all %vith Dn Pont. 
Short note from JOSEPH M. CORCORAN, who is vice-president of Jones & Vintng, Inc. Would like to hear more about your activity since leaving school. How about it? 
RICHARD T. LUCRE lives in Wisconsin Dells, Wis. with his wife Virginia and sbc splendid chil­dren, Marcia, 13; Susan, 11; Ricliie, 9; Ginna, 7; Mary, 5, and Tommy, 2/3. Dick is a high school English teacher and during the summer montlis is manager of the "Country Kitchen" Drivc-In Res­taurant. All N.D. men are welcome—first cup of coffee on the house. Ricliard would like to hear from JOHN BRODERICK, JERRY HOGAN, DINO FALCIONE, FRED DIGBY, PROF. O'MALLEY and ED COTTON ~ to mention a fc«-. 
GEORGE ROBERT aVMPBELL is a resident ph>-sician in Cleveland Heights, Ohio ^vhc^e he lives with his \vife and family, Robert John, 9, Laura Jean, 6, Susanne ^far>*, 5, Coleen Patricia, 4, Cathleen Ann, 3, and Paul or Pauline (due in May '58). Doctor George has seen RAY TILLIE, RUSSELL RILEY, FRANK KELLEY. BILL EBER­HARDT and PAUL .McARDLE. (Fellows — hou­about dropping me a note?) George would like to hear from JACK McGO\'ERN and BYRON CASEY. 
58 Notre Dame Alumnus, Marchy 1958 
CHARLES R. RILEY is a surgeon m Richmond, 

Va. where he lives witli his wife and seven children, 
Susan, U; Sarah, 10; Charlie, 8; Henry, 5; Ellen, 
3; Nora, VAy John Richard, 9 months. Doctor 
Charles was with Doctors JIM DALEY and R^VY 
TILLIE at Atlantic City at a meeting for the 
American College of Surgeons. Charlie would also 
like to hear from BYRON a\SEY — likewise for 
mc. How about it. "Casey**? Note: To president 
of our Class — CHARLIE REDDY. CHARLIE 
RILEY suggested this, and I quote from his letter 
to me, **I had an idea: If you wanted a big turn-out 
at our class reunion, to deputize a member from 
each school, i.e.—from prc-mcd, engineering, law, 
commerce, etc. and have a personal contact by 
letter—this would certainly turn the trick." Thanks 
for the suggestion, Charlie. 
There are many more questionnaires coming in 

each day but because of the deadline, this ends it for 
this issue. To the ones that sent in the first and 
second questionnaire — thank you — to the others, 
we would love hearing from you . . . liow about it? 
From the Alumni Office: 
^\^LLIA^f p. .MAHONEY, JR., an attorney in 

Phoenix, Ariz., lias been elected to the national 
board of directors of the National Conference of 
Christians and Jews. Bill has been on the executive 
committee of the NCCJ's PhoenL^c Chapter. 
RICHARD J. 0*MELIA is now special assistant to the general counsel of the Cinl Aeronautics Board, handling international aviation. Formerly counsel to the Senate's government operations com­mittee( appointed by the late Senator McCarthy) and now a Lt. Col., USMCR, Dick is married to the former Mar>- Jane 0'Neil» daughter of the late THOMAS F. O'NEIL, '13, of Akron, Ohio. 
ALBERT PACETT.\ at last report w-as still 

chasin' conflagrations as deputy' commissioner of 
the Fire Department, City of New York. 
1 940 J^^^cs G. Bro^vn 
625 Madison Avenue 
Ne^c York, New York 

After much scuttlebutt and hearsay regarding JOHN McINT\'RE and his Naiy acti\'ities we no^v have the word from the man himself. Fine letter which Is appreciated by all. John was in the Navy Air Corps during \\'orId War II, discharged and operating his own sporting goods business up in Rhode Island when Korea started. Was rec^Ied and after the tour decided to go USN. John has been on tours of duty with carriers Essex and Kcarsarge. ^Vas recently stationed in the San Diego area as Operations Training officer for Pacific Fleet ships and is nou- CIC officer on the staff of Commander Operational Developments Force at Supreme /MHed Command Atlantic Head­quarters, Norfolk, Va. John was president of the 
N. D. Club of RJiode Island when he was recalled and while out in California \v^ active in the San Diego dub. John has recently seen CHET SUL­LIVAN in Chicago and REX ELLIS out in Los Angeles who, we recently reported, is a practicing attorney in that area. 
Also have another letter from the ser\"icc group. FRANK CIOLINO of the Army and Mississippi checks in with a good long letter. Frank was on his way to Inchon at the time of the *55 reunion and sends regrets at not being able to attend. Was also, like so many others, out after World War II and then recalled at the time of the Korean situation. Has been in ever since but now after deciding to cpply for regular duty has been caught in the recent cutback of the Armed Forces and is just about to be discharged at the time wc arc uTiting. Frank has been all over the country in ser\-icc and was doing personnel and administra­tion work in Mississippi before being recalled. Frank sends his best and after December I ^rill be at the old stand: 804- So. Washington Ave., Grcennlle, Miss, until he gets located. Have a blurb from Republic Steel announcing the appoint­ment of BOB ROTRACKER as Superintendent of Republic's Union Drau-n Steel Division located in Beaver Falls, Pa. I've mentioned this connection once before, and am now wondering how long it is going to take Rothmoor to sit down and tell us in his ou-n handwriting .. . or t>'pe .. . all about his activities with this company and give us all the family data. Have another newspaper clipping an­nouncing that CHARLEY OSHINSKI from Mish­awaka is now located in Chicago and has been appointed manager of the U. S. Rubber plant in Chicago. He has been with U. S. Rubber for a number of years in the Ball Band plant in lab work, and now takes over the Chicago operation. Also have another blurb from the Shulton Corp. mentioning that BILL O'BRIEN has been named 
Manager of that firm's Chemical Division. I re­cently reported on Bill but tlicse men of '40 are mo'^'ing so fast in industry that my lineage is outdated before it gets to press. Bill is in the area, so I'll have to stop in and get the particulars and maybe a sample of Old Spice so this column will smell real s^veet. Have a note here from DICK AMES via JIM DONOGHUE with his annual con­tribution to the class endowment educational fund. Dick has just become the father for the eighth time . . . four girls, four boys. Quite a family. Congratulations. 
Wife and I recently attended Saturday night card game with a group of previously mentioned *40 men. JOHN MARTIN, BUD O'DONNELL. H*\NK DOWD and wives. The>- were all down to sec the Army game at Philly. Bud mentioned that he had recently seen JACK PINDAR who is located over in Jersey. Jack is a practicing at­torney and has been very active in politics with Gov. Mcyner. He is married to a St. Mary*s girl and thcv have four children. Also seen at the game, FR^VNK BAUMERT and RED BO^\XER who is now working with Olin-Mathison in the metropolitan area. JOE CJVRLUCCI also at the game. Joe is a practicing dentist up in Wcst­cliester.and has eight children. This seems to be the issAe for those with eight . . . count them . . . cliildren. Have a few other notes but will try to save some (or next issue. This will not reach you for the holiday season but wish you all the best for '58. VTill appreciate any leftover, unmailed Xmas cards to me ^vith a few of the vital family statistics and details of your activities. 
From the Ahimni Office: 
JOHN B. AMLLALVN left his editing Job in Williamsport to become assistant city editor of the Washington Post & Times Herald. 
1941 Tanics F. SpcIIman 
•'^ ' 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, New York 
Over three months have slipped by since my last report. Receipt of information on >-our various activities has almost become non-existant. Were it not for two wonderful letters from FRANK Mc-DONOUGH and BOB HONVLEY, the cupboard would have been bare. Bob used to room with LARRY W^ALSH on the top floor of Walsh where your scribe had the good fortune to inhabit. We had many pleasant bull sessions in Bob's room. 
Bob's letterhead reads, "Howley Hardware Com­pany, Bob Howley, Colorado at Kansas Avenue, Lorain, Ohio." He reports the following: He is married and has t;v-o sons, 7 and 6, and a daughter, 
3. His ^rife Rita and he attend some games when they find time; they want the boys to become Notre Dame students. They live In Vermilion . which is about 40 miles west of Cle^'eland. Bob meets iURT Y INGWERSEN occasionally. Marty is Vice-President of American Slup and manager of the local yard. Marty and vrUc Btnk ha\-e three children and also live in Lorain. 
If MIKE GRACE is reading this column. Bob asks that he get in touch with him. 
Be sure to call mc. Bob, when you and Rita come to New York. I'm right in the center of Manhattan and easily found. Frank McDonough's letter is not only a pleasure for me to read, it carries a message for one and all of our class. So I am enclosing it for your enjoyment. 
"Enjoy the Alumnus very much each issue, par­ticularly your fine details concerning the gang from our old Class of '41, and I thought I'd dash off a few notes from this part of the Sunshine State, Pompano Beach, i^'hich has been my home for the past three years. Wish I had known you were vacationing in Miami Beach. Would like to .have had you \Tsit us up here 25 miles north of Miami in the new 'heart' of the Florida gold coast. would like, as \'ice-presidcnt of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale, to extend an invitation to have you or any of our classmates vacationing in the area join us for our regular dinner-club meeting the 1st Thursday of each month. It's held in the Governor's Club in Lauderdale, and alu-aj-5 is a wonderful evening. We have excellent attendance and a most active club — even to the extent of sponsoring an annual three-day State Notre Dame Convention at the Sea Ranch on the ocean, and this event is fast becoming an intra­state and eventually a national Notre Dame affair. 
"I regularly see several 1941 classmates: DICK ^^'HALEN, who is one of the leading attorneys in Fort Lauderdale and is associated with Fleming, O'Bryan and Fleming lax%-firm; FRANK OIREY of Kokomo, Ind., fame, with whom I occasionally get in a round of golf and always get trimmed as he shoots in the Io\v 80's — Frank is an associate of the Lauderdale Billmorc realty firm in Lauder­dale and lives nearby here in Pompano. JACK. MURTAUGH and wife stopped out several weeks ago ^v'hilc \-2cationing in Miami, so Dick liVhalen and wife Libby, and Frank Carey, came over and we had a fine evening of nostalgic reminisdng about the 1941 gang. TOM NOLAN, Class of '42, is also associated with M. N. Weir & Sons, in our Boca Raton office, so we have quite a gang nearby. 
"I am a Florida real estate broker associated with 
M. N. Weir and Sons (who formerly, incidentally, were Long Islanders), and we are exclusive sales agents, planners and developers of all of Mr. Arthur Vining Da^'is* (former chairman of the board of Alcoa) real estate holdings In Palm Beach county 
KENTUCKY—Former coach Frank Leahy congratulates boosters of state champion St. Xavier Tigers as guest speaker of November football banquet in Kentucky Hotel, Louisville. Left to right: Jim Henncssy, Kentucky Club president; Bob Watson, president of the Tiger Boosters; Leahy, and alumnus Jim Padgett. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1958 59 
and xicinUy. W'c have offices in Dclray, Boca Ratonj Pompono Beach and Port Lauderdale. I'd love to have any classmates \'acatlomng doun this way stop by to say Iicllo. 
"Dick and Libby ^Vhalcn have tlircc strapping sons, Lcc, age lO, Mark, age 9, and Stephen, age 
6. Marge and I arc ver>' proud of Mary Beth, age 8, Pcgg\-, age 5, and Mickey just 9 montlis old. 
*'Bcst regards to you, Jim, and congratulations to you for doing a inar\'clous job of' bringing our Class together across the miles through our 1941 Alumnus column." 
By ihc way Frank, I'll be down Miami u-ay late in .•\pril or first of May for a couple of weeks \-aca­
tion. Will not promise, bm will make cvcrv* cfTort to see you. I have to go to Melbourne, so it will be easy to get to Pompano on the same route. Say hello to FRAXK CAREY as it has been many years &incc I last saw Frank. (Hawaii, In 1944, wasn*t it Frank?) 
Our s>Tnpathy to the widow of JOHX J. FAL­LON',- John died October 26, 1957. May he find eternal peace. 
I will be pleased if you keep me and the rest of tlie class informed of your doings. Please drop nte a few lines on your whereabouts and your activities. You can see how raucli your classmates enjoy hearing about you as indicated in Frank's letter. 
I 942 \ViIIiani AI. Hickey '^ ^ 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 

We have a nice letter from MICHAEL J. CARB, 4485 MarcN- Lane No. 218, Indianapolis 5, Ind. Mike reports that he is still with The Rytex Com­pany but for the past few montlis has been on an assignment in Chicago and Milwaukee. He usually gets home on week ends. His letter furllier states: 
"I sa»v TOAf NASH one evening when I >vas in Chicago and we had a very enjoyable evening-I also 5pcnt a few hours with DON FIGEL in Danville a few weeks ago. 
**My being away has left mc with very little contact witli some of our Indianapolis classmates. FRANK FOX ivho until a few months ago lived in the same apartment development as Betty Lou and I do and has moved to his ne^v home near Carmel, Ind., a northern suburb. We all watched the Okla' homa game together, and he just about needed a new roof after that one. His IVs-year-old daughter, NIaurecn, couldn't quite figure out our antics on a few plays. Frank is still with Eli Lilly's and has recently been selected for a Sales Training Pro­gram. He likes the new position vcr>' much. 
"I see PAUL DEERY occasionally, and he and Mar\- Jane arc cvpccting their third cliild in a few weeks. Paul is with the Duo Fast Companv locally. 
**JACK HART and I went to the Xa\y game, and Jack and his family (tlirce bo>-s and one girl) have lived in Indianapolis since lie relumed from his second trek in the Nav\-. 
"EFFIE QUINTS* tliinks he is siIII leading the family rflcc with his ten (10) wonderful diildren. Barbara, lus wife (St. Mai-\*'s *42) is kept ver>* busy with her family but still looks as young as she did when we were all in scliool together. Effie IcUs me he has recently been made a General Agent of the .American United Life Insurance Company with offices at 2110 N. Meridian here in Indianapolis. 
"We are proud to say that JACK RYAN (1941) ray former Senior Manager and BILL KENNEDY** brother-id-law is Judge of Superior Court, Room 1 of MaHon County. 
"Well, Bill, I better close now. I'm sorr>- that I haven't been able to report on all of our '42 classmates. ira>'be on your next issue you will hear from fellows like JOE VOLLMER, BILL HURLEE, BOB COURTNEY, DICK 0\VENS and some other of the boys." 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of Chicago Communion Breakfast on December 1 was attended by over 200 local men. FATHER JOHN a\V.\NAUGH, 
C.S.C. former president, was Mass Celebrant at St. Peter's Church and speaker at the LaSallc Hotel breakfast. Among the '42 participants were BILL PL.\TT, TOM TIERNEY, DON HOGAN, EM­METT WRIGHT, BILL HICKEY, JIM CONWAY, and LEO LANIGAN, Chicago's most eligible bachelor. 
BILL MARSHALL has just left his position in the Paten Law Department of Pure Oil Company and is now assouatcd witli ^(crTiam, Lordt S: Smith, a firm specializing in patent law. 
DICK McHUGH, the real estate, insurance, farming tycoon ol Manhattan, III., took time from his many interests to attend a couple of the games. 
60 Notre Dame Alumnus^ March, 1958 
JOHN J. POWERS, '52 

Last J une John Joseph Powers^ barely 29. succeeded Paul E. NevIllCj '42, as managing editor of the South Bend Tribune after a brief stint as as­sistant. Previously he had put in ^VG^ years on the Trib news staff. 
Jack was bom in Brooklyn^ N. Y., and attended Long Island schools. Re­liable authority has it that he really did peddle newspapers as a boy. He entered the Army in 1946, serving as a paratrooper in the 11th Airborne Divi­sion in Japan and emerging as a sergeant. 
A product of Professor Tom Stritch's pre-"communication" Journalism De­partmentj Jack was news editor and editor of the Scholastic and. in his senior year, won the J. Sinnott Myers Burse for Journalism and the Dome A^vard. 
He went to the Tribune as a reporter in 1952j working as a night police re­porter, general assignment man and editorial writer before taking the reins. A member of the boards of directors of both the South Bend Catholic Forum and the South Bend Press Club, Jack was chairman of the Press Club's 1955 Gridiron Dinner, in which that year's most newsworthy public figures were mercilessly lampooned. 
In 1953 Jack married Barbara Norton (St. Mar)''s '53) of South Bend. They have three children, Michael Ed­ward, 3; Mary Katherine, 2, and John AValter, going on 1. Their Irish terrier named Meg is of Notre Dame's royal Clashmore family. 
Again, your Secretary eagerly solicits any news you may have in your particular locale. 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES P. DOYLE and J. E.\LMET KEENAN, ivho arc partners in Certified Public Accounting in Davenport, Iowa, have opened branch offices in Rock Island, III. 
1 943 i^^^ L- ^Viggins '^' ^ 4800 Fairla^^Ti Drive La Canada, Calif. 
I attended the Notre Darae-SMU game in Dallas on December 7 and in addition to a whale of a game, I saw several members of our Class at the Cotton Bowl. Curiotisly, all but one were from out of town. Tlie one Dallasitc was CHARLIE BUTLER, a recent transferee from Youngsiown, Ohio. Charlie has been living in Dallas since Sep­tember ^vhcn his employer, Commercial Stamping sent him to Dallas to open their first Western of­fice. Charlie's office is down the hall from BILL LILJESTROM who is the new regional manager for Olin ^fathicson*s aluminum division. Also at the game: WALLY ZIEMBA who is now associated with the Playground Program of the City of Ham­mond, Ind. Wally came to the game with the now celebrated booster group, the Mohawks, who livened up the pre- and post-game celebrations in Big D. JOHN (REBEL) LANAH.\N was there on a flying visit from JacksonwIIc, Fla. where he heads the Lanahan Lumber Co. Also in town for a short business trip was BOB MADDEN rep­resenting Goodyear Aircraft of .\kron, Ohio. Bob had called BILL UNGASHICK the eve of the game trying to persuade him to make the trip from his Kansas City engineering firm to see the ball game. 
Thank you for the fine response to the question­naire. At the time of the current deadline, I had received over 245 replies—a rather phenomenal re­turn. Curiously, I have even flushed out about a half dozen replies to the original questionnaire \vhich was mailed over a year ago. 
CL.\RENCE KLOSKY (Ed. Note: Clarence not only "works" there, he runs the place. J.C.) writes that he works at tlie North State Press, Inc., Hammond, Ind. He is the father of three daughters and a son. Look for Clarence at the 15-year Reunion. He would like to hear from JOE ALL/\RD. TOM COONEY is relocating in San Francisco where he will become the buyer for the White iHousc in the men's furnishing^ department. Tom, formerly located in Los Angeles, would like to hear from JACK BARRY and BILL SHEA. He hopes to see botli of them at the 15-year Reunion. KEN GEMPEL is prindpal of T. N. Lamb Jr. High Scliool in Flint, Midi. Ken, an active Nax-al Reservist, would like to hear from JOE GIBBONS, JOHN MURRAY and BOB WALSH. Ken WTIICS that his senior year roommate, £D DOR£ is a Detroit insurance man. Ken is married, has a daughter. BOB CORRIGAN teaches at John Car­roll University (Cleveland, Ohio); he is the father of six: five boys, one girl. Bob wonders whatever became of CARL COCO and SAM MEYER. Bob plans to see us at the Reunion next June. 
JOHN OTOOLE works for tlie VA. He lives in Acushnet, Mass., is married and the father of three sons and two daughters. JULIAN MICHEL writes from the Michel Adjusting Co., in Charleston, So, Carolina. Julian has five children: three boys and two girls. He would like to hear from DICK HEISER. From South Bend wc Icarn that BOB TOU7JER is a sports writer for the Tribune. JERRY SMITH went to Johns Hopkins after the «-ar; he received his Ph.D. there in English Liter­ature. He has taught at the University of ^laryland and Canisius College. He is now an assistant pro­fessor in the Department of English at the Univer­sity of RocJicsIer (N.Y.) WALT McNAiL\RA is the Pacific Division Manager for E. J. Brach & Sons, candy manufacturers. I had lunch with Walt recently and he was filling me in on the details of his transfer AV'est last February. Wait now resides in Los Altos, Calif. 
HOWARD MARLOW lias been apointed Assistant Works Auditor, International Har\'ester in the Chicago area. Howard plans to clicck in for the 15-ycar Reunion. URIAS McLAUGHLIN, M.D. has been practicing eye surgery for the past four years in Milwaukee. lie has three children. Brian plans to attend the big reunion. TOM HERLIHY is an executive pilot for the Chrysler Corp. (no doubt swcpt-wing) in Detroit. Tom has seven children: three sons and four daughters. BILL MIDDENDORF writes that he, too. will attend the Reunion. He plans to bring Iiis wife and eight (that's right, Oscar) kids. 
BILL JOHNSON brought us up to date on some of the New York gang. Bill wTites that he, his wife and three cluldrcn live in Ridgcwood, N. J. He usually gets together with the following charac­ters at a football or basketball game: FRANK CONFORTl, father of three, the squire of Flushing; MOE HERBERT who is cultix-ating a Boston ac­cent in Wellsley, Mass.; GEORGE OLVANY, Bay-side, N. Y. father of three; and BILL WALSH has five or sw running around Lattington, Long Island, N. Y. Bill writes that FRED GOOSEN is with the Ismathian Steamship Lines in Nassau, Baliamas — real tough assignment. Bill plans to make the Reunion and suggests prizes for the gu>-s who goL the fattest, slimmest, most kids, most hair. 
This will probably be the next to last column before the big Reunion. From all indications this could be the best attended in the history of the Alumni /Vssociation as far as it concerns the Class of '4-3. All indications point to a record turnout; I have received indications on the ques­tionnaires and Other correspondence which would indicate that we could have as many as 200 at the Reunion. Let*s all plan to make the big Reunion week end this year. The dates again June 6-7-8. Start making your plans now. You can use the Class Roster to contact old buddies and arrange for the gala week end on campus. We're all set for our Friday night dinner in the Faculty Dining Hall to kickoH* the Reunion. Don't forget June 6-7-8. 
From the Alumni OfHce: 

BOB MORRILL has been appointed Sales Man­ager of the Home Cleaning Equipment Division of Landers, Frary & Clark, New Britain, Conn., where Bob lives with his wife and three children. 
ZANE J. SANDOM, who has been with Ameri­can Express in Chicago, was recently appointed assistant General Manager of the London office. 
1944 George BarisciIIo 
• '^ ^ 515 Fifth Avenue Bradley Beach, N. J. 
The past football season afforded your sccrctar>­an opportunity to cross paths with a number of '44crs in Philadelphia and at Notre Dame. At the Army game we ran across BILL MIDDENDORF who is \ice-prexy of the Washington, D. G. Alumni Club and who was in charge of a trainload ex­cursion from the Capital on hand for the big game. Also seen in and about Municipal Stadium were FRANK STUMPF, up from Virginia, BILL TAL­BOT and JACK McCABE down from New York, and JOE DILLON and BOB LEHMAN out from South Bend. 
Later on in the season we had a chance to make the Pitt and Na\y games at Notre Dame. We met DOM BOETTO who is practicing law in Jolict, 
111. Dom is prex>' of the Holy Name Society of his parish and was squiring a bus load of fans from Joliet on a football trip sponsored by his organiza­tion. Also had a quick visit with *'BL\C K JOHN" MURPHY who was up from Terrc Haute for the Nav>- game. 
It was good to see JOHN MORRISON again. He's the proud father of four, liWng in the Vetville section of the campus, and working on a ^taster's in Math. John reported that JOE L/\NIG/\N is teacliing at St. Theresa's in Winona, ^tinn., and from another source we learned that jfoe may have taken the plunge in to married life by the time this copy reaches the press. Hear the lucky miss is a Parisian, now on the faculty of a college near St. Theresa's. 
Also visited with JOHN LYNCH who is now with BendLx in South Bend in their Guided Missile Section. John is editor of training manuals. 
It was certainly great to be back on the campus again. It's truly amazing the number of changes, physical and otherwise, since our heyday. But your scribe's "boss"; JIM MURPHY of the De­partment of Public Information; and all the others. We chatted about reunion plans and began laying the groundwork for our 15-year reunion a year from this June. Suggest all '44ers make a mental note now that we'll be gathering In June, 1959, and 'start making whatever long range plans are necessary so you'll be sure to be "on tap." 
Incidentally, we drove out from Jersey to South Bend and those turnpikes are really terrific The exit for South Bend from the Indiana Toll Road is only a quarter of mile north of the campus. On the way out we stopped at a motel near Young-town and called GRIFF ALLEN. "GrifT* has trans­ferred his attention from the lumber field to the oil business and now holds the Amoco franchise for sales to industry' in the Youngstown area. 
ED DRINKJVR D checked in w*ith your secrctar>* by phone while he was on a recent business trip to nearby Fort Monmouth, N. J. Ed Is now living with his brood (three boys and three girk) at No. 2 Potomac Court, Alexandria, Va., and is associated with the American Machine & Foundry Co. in Alexandria. 
In reply to an inquir>' printed In this space from one of his "buddies," JOHN C. CLYNE brings us Up to date on his doings since leaving ND. John graduated from Loyola University School of Medicine in "1947, and had his internship and residency in Chicago at Mercy Hospital where he specialized in obstetrics and gynecology, and then followed with a tour of duty with the Air Force delivering babies. He is now at Lincoln Clinic, Lincoln, Ncbr., and in the baby department hasn't done badly himself — he has four boys and three girls. 
Received a very \%-eIcomc letter from ED "SOCK" SOCKALSKI, who also fills us in with his doings since campus days. Ed first ser\'ed an apprentice­ship in the architect office of Suren Pilafian, De­troit, and continued in architecture until 1930, when he joined ^vith several members of his family in the Central Concrete Block Company, a business left by his late father. "Besides making what we feci (as well as others), is one of the finest con­crete blocks in Detroit," Sock says, "we also handle transit mixed concrete and builders' supplies." Ed is married and has four little ones. He reports ex­clianging annual visits with DAN TOMCIK and the latter's family. "I bumped Into ED SCHMID a few times prior to his wife's and child's demise, and other than that," continues Ed, "my only other contact has been quite a bit of pool shoot* ing with JOHNNY BORKOWSKI, letter-contact ^v•ith BOB MARTINA, and enjoying the companion­ship of ChESl CONSTANTINE, who Just finished a year's presidency of the Dearborn Club of ND, of which group I am a member." 
BEN BRUNETTI reports lea\-ing the manage­ment consulting field in '56 after six years %vith Methods Engineering Council and Is now Controller of General Molds and Plastics Corp. in Pittsburgh. His company manufactures the *'Andy Gard" line of remote control to>-s. Ben reports seeing €>c­caslonally FRAN CURRAN who has recently settled In Pittsburgh; also PAT BRENNAN who is across the Ohio River from Ben's plant, Pat with Pitts­burgh Forglngs. According to Ben, AL ROMEO and TONY RENZE are still raising large families in the hometown of Uniontown -— and as for Ben, he's still in BILL TALBOT'S status, "bachelor bliss." 
BOB DUNN advises he has now been transferred to the Western Electric Company's new plant In Omaha, Nebr. after 11 years of sei^ice in Buffalo. 
Received an announcement that EARL ENGLERT is now in charge of sales for a new company. Catalysts and Chemicals, Inc., Louisville, Ky. The ne^v firm supplies specialty catalysts, technical ser\'ices and contract research. 
And that covers the news gathered hither and yon. My desk is cleared and I'm in a begging mood again. Won't a few more take time to help case the task of putting together this column by dropping a few lines. Hope that you and yours enjoyed a happy, holy holiday season. 
Al Lesmcz 

1945 
122 Tullamorc Road Garden City, N. Y. 
DOAVN THE ROAD APIECE 

When this Issue Is mailed but, we shall all be merrily on our fast pace Into the New Year — chipping away at ^vork we have set up for 1958. And we shall all of a sudden realize that our 15-year class reunion is now only two years off. Some of the men of the class have stopped long enough to contribute and to help the class along. Others have not even sent in their dues . . . dues which are needed and which have been requested time and time again. You who have not paid, • 
there's enough of the "old" to bring back wonderful memories of the da>-s we trod the familiar paths. ST. PETERSBURG—Harry Stuhldreher, All-America quarterback of NJ), 'Tour Horse­
Everyone in the Alumni oflice w-as especially gracious men" in the 20's, was honor guest at luncheon given by Notre Dame Foundation of Florida 
to us — JIM ARMSTRONG, Alumni secretary, who 
West Coast in December. Left to right: Stuhldreher, A. J. Ellis, luncheon chaiiman; Roy 
looks younger and more energetic each time we 
see him; JOHN CACKLEY, Alumnus editor and Deeb, club president and Foundation city chairman; and Jim (Red) Glynn, St. Petcrsbarg. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 61 
but who enjoy reading this column and knowing that our '45 gang is an organized, going concern, stop nou-, in your mad 1938 dasli enough to do some good for the class. Send your dues (made p3>-ablc to Xotrc Dainc Class of '45) to BILL MOORE, 720 Irving Place, Plainficld, N. J. Do it today because v-'c arc going to need cver>' dollar for class aiTairs, and for the reunion, now only dou'n the road apiece, 
THANK YOU TO SOME 
BILL MOORE, class treasurer, writes that some of the men have sent in their dues, and to them, many thanks from all of us. In addition to the list printed in this cnlum two issues ago, tlic folloiving men have thought enough of the work of the class to send in their dues: 
W. \L CLEMENCY, T. P. BERGIX, F. AL­LO.VEY, JR., R. J. LEITE, R, H. MAURER, 
J. O'DOXOGHUE, K. A. KELLY, JR., F. J. CULH.\XD, D. CISLE, JR., A. A. WADE, REV. 
D. J. TRxXCEY, C- R. LUGTOX, J. BRODY, G. 
H. BRAY, L. ROMAGOSA, M. A. BISESI, R. P. CRO.VIX, J. J. AVUITE, \\\ E, RAWLIXS, R. B.\DDOUR. E. F. GILLESPIE, J. M. H.AGGAR, JR., R. F. LARKIXj J. F. LAWSOX, C. L. LESLIE, F. M. GUIXEY, R. L. MARSKE, F. E. MALOXE, P. A. MAZZ.A, L. A. RUOF, JR., A. C, SARTORE, T. SCHERER, R. SIXKLE, R. W. SXEE, J. R. RYAX, O. W. ROSAXELLI, R. R. YOUXG, D. A. O'DOXXELL, JR., and R. J. AXDERSOX. 
NEWS FROM UERE AND THERE 
Congratulations to MARK CROXIX, JR., who became the proud father of a son, Mark III, bom July 15, Mark's family already consisted of two daughters, one three and the other almost five years old. The home address is 7353 South Calcs Avenue, Chicago, III. 
And congratulations to G\THIE and BILL CLEMEXCY of 21 Ifillsidc Avenue, Rockvillc Centre, New York, on the birth of a daughter. Mar\- Cathleen, 6 pounds, 14 ounces on September 24, 1957. That evens up the number of boys and girls at three each. Tliat's wonderful news, 
PERLA and GEORGE DESPOT arc scheduled for a yew York visit in early December. Your corres­pondent is anxiously awaiting their arri\-al, for this is an assignment w)iich brings with it real pleasure. 

Two quite dapper, progressive business execs were *'bumpcd into" in one day of Manliattan touring by yours truly. In the Xew York Coliseum Business Show, who sliould grasp my hand and surprise me so pleasantly but RED.MOXD TOXER, that Conneticut lad who came down to see what Xew Yorkers were up to. One hour later, -walking dowTi Madison Avenue, who should Jump out of a taxi and practicallv startle mc, but ERXIE R,\UCHER. Both '45crs looked like they were really '54cr5, and it was a pleasure cliatting with them. 
DID YOU KXOAV THAT 

Did you know that RUDY AXDERSOX, JR., now lives at 829 Muir Tcrrance, Scotch Plains. 
X. J. . . . that JOHX P. RIXELLA, who used to live at 436 Xorlh Austin Blvd., Oak Park, III., now does not live any place that the U. S. Post OIHce knows . . . that his return mail piles up and no one knows wlierc he has moved . . . that we'd love to find out so we don't lose such a good member from our mailing list , . . that BILL XELSOX moved from Indianapolis, Ind., to 51 Southern Drive, SpringBeld. Mass. . . . that Lt. Comd. JOHX G. BROZO's address is ATU-2I2 XAAS. Kingsville, Texas . . . that JOHX R. MADDEX is living at 715 \V. 41 Street, Kansas City, Mo., \vith his wife, ifarji, and their two cliildren, Malachi Patrick, three years old, and Seana Mara, one year old . , . that he is District Sales Manager for the Milwaukee Lace Paper Com­pany . . . that John visited the campus in 1955 for the X'avj- game and was surprised at all the buildings . . . that John would fill with even greater pride if he could see the new halls and the dining room just dedicated this past football season . '. . that John is an active member of the Xotrc Dame Club of Kansas City . . . that Peter J. McMahon, 1841 East 27th Street, Tulsa, Okla., has a, lovely wUc, Grace Mar>-, and five children . . . that the youngsters arc Peter, 10; Mary, 9; Mike, 7; Susan, 6; and John, I . . . that Peter is Vice-President of C. L. ifcMahon, Inc., helping to do exploration and land aquisttion for oil prospects . . . that DAVID M. THORX­TON and JACK COXAVAY are in Tulsa w^•th the la*v Srm of Martin, Logan, Meyers, Afartin and 
62 Notre Dame AlumnuSy March^ 1958 

Supreme Court Justice William Brennan, Jr., (second from right) and two other federal judges presided at the final round of the Notre Dame Law School's 8th annual Moot Court Competition. Here the newest member of the high court chats with (left to right) Judge Robert A, Grant, '28, South Bend, Ind.; Dean Joseph O'Afeara, and Judge John Biggs, Jr., Wilmington, Del. 
Hull . . . that JOHXXIE MACK writes that he is well and happy . , . that he has five wonderful children, Marjorie, 8; Michael, 6; Marj* Catherine, 5; Kathleen, 3; Maureen, 2 . . . that he and his wife, Catlierine, live at 38 South Scarborn, Chicago. 
111. . . . that REV. WILLUM STOCK BEVIXG­TOX' has just been awarded the degree of Master of Arts from the George Pcabody College for Teachers . -- that we all send our congratulations to you, Father Bill . . . that DR. JOHX V. ALLEX HI is now assigned to the Xazareth Hospi­tal, Rossevelt and Hold, Philadelphia, Pa. . . . tliat GER.ALD E. COSGROVE has moved from Canal Zone to Oak Ridge Xational Laboratory-, 
P.O. Box Y, Oak Ridge, Tcnn. . . . that DR. CHARLES P. SCHWIXX has been transferred from the N^ew York Memorial Cancer Hospital to assignments at the M. D. Anderson Hospital and Tumor Institute, Houston 25, Texas . . . that HE.\RY PA\'XE and xvifc have a new baby, the third for them . . . that this column depends on YOU for news, and unless you or your lovely hecretary-wjfe-motlier drop mc a line, there won't be anything of interest to report. 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT 
From JOHX G. MACK, JR.: "You know, I assume, that BILL PFISTER died during the middle of September. DOX CLAEYS and I were pall­bearers. BILL KLEM managed to get to ilicli­jgan City for the funeral. Bill is sun'ivcd by his %vife, Emmy, and t\vo children, Kathy, 8; and 
Mark, 3." 
(John. I am sorry but 1 had not heard about 
Bill Pfislcr's death. It comes as very sad news. 
The whole class will mourn his passing,) 
From JOILV B. GRIFFIX, M.D.: "After I left Xotrc Dame in 1945, I started medical scliool that year at Xorthwcslem University and graduated in 1949. There followed two years at the Cook County Hospital. Then two years in the Army Medical Corps in the Far East during the Korean War. In 1953, I went to Xc\i* York City to com­plete my specialty training in orthopedic surgery-In July, 1956, I returned to Chicago and entered private practice at IW S. Mlcliigan Blvd., Chicago 3, III, Best wishes to all." (John, to you the very best of wishes and good luck on that mcdtcal practice . . . Al.) • v 
1 94A ^^^^ Tengc, Jr. I #-rw 2025 M\ Si.x Mile Road Detroit 3, Michigan 
From the .Mumni Office: 
a\LVIX J. BL/\TTXER was back in South Bend recently to address the local cliaplcr of the /\meri­can Society of Mechanical Engineers. Gal is d>*namics engineer for the McDonnell Aircraft Company in St. Louis, Mo. 
JAMES J. COLEMiVX has been named manager of the industry group whicli handles sales to the plastics industry for the Atlas Powder Co., Wil­mington, Del. 
194 7 Jack Miles, Jr. 
• '^ ' 3218 Bentley Lane South Bend 15, Indiana 
Well, at least wc have made a start on extending a helping hand to BROTHER IV.VX DOLAN, C.S.C., in far-ofr Dacca. 
You'll recall the last edition of '47 notes broad­cast the plight of two of our classmates — Brother U-an and FxVTHER FR.\XK McFARLi\XD, CS.C. 
— in securing enough funds to help underwrite their missionary labors .. . labors made more dillicult by the continuing effects of the disastrous floods in 1954 and 1955. 
The first contribution to help in the school re­building program dubbed so vital by Brother Ivan came, happily, from a former Moreau Seminarian who has never before written The /Vlumnus: BILL RUEVE, or, more formally, Capt. William W. Rucve, specializing in obstetrics and g>-nccology at Maxwell Air Force Base in Montgomery, Ala. 
Writes Bill: "I was In Moreau Seminary with Father Frank McFarland and knew Brother Ivan and his brother FATHER PAT DOL/\X pretty well. Would like to do my bit for Brother Ivan and his school. He has certainly been giving the Good Lord more than I have.'* 
Thanks for the kickofT, Bill; IVe sent your check along to Pakistan. Perhaps I'm too much of a cocke>*cd optimist, but it seems it shouldn't be too difScuIt to send Brother I^-an at least $1,000 as a class project .. . if, tor instance, 100 fcllotvs pitch in $10 apiece, or 200 donate $5 each, we'll 

all be the belter for it. How about it? Any givers? Getting back to Bill Rucve—he reports he mar­ried Barbaia Brcnnan two daj-s after receiving his 
M.D. from Crcighton U. in June of 1955; they have a daughter, Mary Thercse, and a second child 
* \ii-as expected early in December. 
Congratulations of the warmest \-aricty arc due Di\i\IEL DUNN MErVNEY, who was honored by the Holy Father with Knighthood in the Order of St. Gregory the Great and invested by the Most Rev. Mariano S. Garriga, Bishop of Corpus Christi, during ceremonies in the Cathedral there October 13, To be a Knight of St. Gregor>', one must be incontrovertibly loyal to the Holy Sec, virtuous and pious, zealous in appl>-ing pnnclplcs of the Faith to everyday living, and of excellent repute. Tliose are mighty impressive credentials, Dan, and we're proud of you. 
Recognition has been extended to two other men of '47 by the Alumni Ofiice: LUIS BELTR^VNENA, 
• whose anti-Communist activities jeopardized his life, is a "Spotlight Alumnus" in this issue, and DON MCDONALD was one of the eight nominees for membership on the Alumni Board of Directors (and by the time you read this we'll know whether or not he won). 
Our most faithful correspondent, ELMER "MOOSE" MATTHEWS, recently entered partner­ship in the law firm of Viescr and Matthews jn Newark and then rolled up an 8,500-votc plurality in winning election to the New Jersey General /\sscmbly in his maiden political venture. Just 45 years before, Moosc*s fatlicr — former Judge John A. Matthews, distinguished Catholic layman and lecturer •— also won an assembly seat in his 
I first appearance on the ticket at the age of 30 . . . so historj- repeats in the second generation. To cap the stor>', the new assemblyman was to be sworn in Januar>' 14, his mother** birthday. 
New addresses have been received for: RICHARD 

I L. AHE/\RN, GERALD T. BARTA, LUIS V. BELTRANENA, CHESTER B. BRAMBLETT, GEORGE H. BREENE, KELLY F. COOK, R.\Y­MOND DAVIS, REV. JOHN PATRICK DOLx\N, C.S.C., EDWARD J. DOWT), JEROME FAUST, 
, ALVIN B. FEUER, JOHN S. FORSTER, JAMES 
D. GRIFFIN, DR. EDWARD E. HAMEL, RICH­ARD C. HOHLER, DONALD G. JACKSON, JOHN E. KLINGER, JR., DR. ALOYSIUS L. KUNT2, RICHARD J. LEFTE, JOHN >f. Mc-a\BE, JOHN M. Mca\R\^L, JOHN J. Mc-COURT, WILLIAM J. McGAH, JR., DR. JOHN 
H. McL/\UGHLlN, PATRICK L. McSH.\NE, JOHN F. MAHER, JOHN L. MAYO, JR., J.VMES 
F. NERAD, JR., JANfES V. O'BRIEN, CHARLES 
R. POINSATTE, GINO L. PUCCI, THOMAS M. ROCKETT, EDWARD J. RUETZ, CAPT. ^VIL­LIAM W. RUEVE, DR. EDWARD J. SANDERS, 
' PATRICK J. SMID, \\*ILLIAXr R. S^\'YERS, J. THOMAS TRIXLER, JOHN R. ^VOODS, and EUGENE A. WOZNICKI. They arc available for the asking. 
Here's hoping 1958 is a year of good health and happiness and success for all of you and your families. 
And w*hy not include in your list of unbreakable New Ycar*s resolutions one to drop your Secretary a line with some sidelights of ncvvs items which will be of interest to all of us? This small seg­ment of The Alumnus is, after all, our only com­mon meeting ground. 
A final reminder: Don't forget Brother iN-an! BRUCE E. SILL, who sells welding and cutting eqtiipmcnt in Northern Illinois and Northern Indi­ana, lists his new address at II3 West Chicago, Lebanon, Ind. 
From the Alumni Office: 

EDWARD J. DOWD, Wcstficld, N. J., has joined Esso Research and Engineering Company. He is a member of the firm's planning engineering division, 
JAMES E. DURBIN has assumed duties as man­ager of the Pioneer Hotel in Tucson, Ariz. At 31, he is one of the youngest major hotel managers in the country. Jim is married to the former Mar>- Jo Holmes of Edinburg, Ind. Tlie Durbins have five children. 
FR/\NCIS M. GUINEY has been appointed a sales engineer by Taylor Fibre Co., Norristown, Pa., manufacturers of vulcanized fibre and lami­nated plastics. He has been assigned to the New York branch office-
ROBERT H. WATERBURY established oflilces of architectural practice at 44 West 56 Street, New York City, on January 2, 1958. His action follows experience as designer of domestic structures, such as several schools, a church, and a housing project in central New York State, and of major buildings on the international scene, including the American Pavilion at the 1958 "World's Fair opening in Brus­sels in the spring, the new United States embassy at New Delhi, India, the Hotel Phoenicia at Beirut, Lebanon, and the Eastern Airlines Terminal at Idlewild Airport, New York City. These arc among the design projects of architects Edward D. Stone and Chester L. Churchill that have engaged Waterbur>*'s talents and cfTorts since he went to New York City to practice three years ago. 
1 948 Herman A. Zitt *' 635 Belmont Park, No. Dayton, Ohio 
Our 10-ycar reunion is the important news of this column frow nou- until June. I have a list of some 1,100 - 1,200 grads and we hope to have a record representation at the gala affair. An event of this proportion necessitates the cooperation of each member of the class to stimulate attendance. To handle mailings (and we should haie three or four reminders) to a group as large as ours re­quires assistance in many ways— 
1—A volunteer or volunteers to handle the print­ing and mailings to all of our classmates. 
2—Local (South Bend) chairman and assistants are necessarj- to coordinate with JIM ARMSTRONG and JOHN CACKLEY in the /Muminum Ofiice. 
3—Since wc have no treasury a few donations are needed to cover stationery-, addrcssographing and mailing expenses. 
4-r-Recommendations for the *'spot" where we can hold our Friday night dinner. 
So please, any of you printers, artists, business managers, sales managers, general managers, engi­neers, doctors, dentists, professors . . . step forward immediately. Send me a note today; we really need your help. Additional details of the Reunion Pro­gram will be reported to you as they develop. It isn't too early to begin planning for the big event on June 6, 7 and 8. 
And now for a little news from the tew class­mates who responded to the secreEar\-— DR. H. DA\TD MOSIER informs us that he just recently joined the Department of Pediatrics at the Uni­versity of California Medical Center in Lt» Angeles, as an Assistant Professor of Pediatrics, .-\long with teaching and practice responsibilities he ^rill be carr>"ing on studies in endocrine disorders in children. 
A post card from Mt. Clemens, Mich., reports on the specialties of three doctors from the '48 Class. PETE KANE is in general surgery, JOHN Kx\NE an ophthamologbt, and PAT CILVRBENEAU a pediatrician. 
BOB DILLON sends a business card indicating he is associated with Walston and Co., a brokerage and investment service In Tulsa. 
Many thanks to Afrs. JOE YONTO for informing me that Joe started a new post this fall as head football coach at Notre Dame High School in Nilcs, III. Tlie fifth Yonlo arrived August 9. TIic otliers are Mary Jo, 7; Carol, 6; Tony, 4, and Bob, 
3. Maybe some of you other wives could send me data on your "busy" husbands. 
ART BR*\DY will probably be puzzled about the source of news about him. He is married, has three children, lives In Hingham, Alass., and is in the automobile business u-ith his father. AVe have a mutual friend. Art. 
Hope in the next Issue of the Alumnus to be able to announce some names of our reunion helpers. 
From the Alumni Office: 
CLIFFTON E. BLOOM has gone into a law partnership in Tucson, Ariz. Previously CUff had been practicing privately. He's married and has three daughters. 
EDWARD J. CRONIN, JR., lives in Norristown, Pa., and works for General Electric in Philadelphia as an engineer for a vital guided missile project— the nose cone for the Atlas ICBAf and Thor IRBM. Ed has two x'oung sons, Edward J. Ill and Michael. 
\\TLLIA.M R. ETHRIDGE is the new director of Industrial relations for the Aetna Standard Engi­neering Co. in EUwood City, Pa., and its plant in Warren, Ohio. Bill (LL.B. '51) had preriously managed the personnel department. 
GERJVRD J. HEKKER is back with the big city press after several years as associate editor of Our Sunday Visitor in Huntington, Ind. Jcrr\- runs the night desk back at his old stand, the Bergen Evening Record, Hackensack, N, J., and can be reached at his former residence in AVood-Ridge. 
CALLIX E. MILLER has been promoted to staff manager of project planning by the International Minerals & Chemical Corporation. CalHx now has four children and lives in E\-anston, 111. 
1949 John Walker 
' ^ 826 ^Ving Street 
Elgin, niinois 

From the Alumni Ofiice: 
LVWRENCE S. CONNOR is now married, the father of a baby daughter and liv*ing in Indianapolis, Ind. 
JOHN H. FAGER is an en^necr with the missile department of General Electric In Philadelphia, tvorking on the crucial development of a nose cone for the Atlas ICBM and Thor IRBM, John is living in Gw>-ncdd, Pa., with his wife Nancy and two young daughters, Karen L>*nn and Sonya Ann. 
HARRY MCDONAL D is in France, studying for a doctorate in philosophy. J^VMES J. MCLAUGHLIN, JR., has been named personnel director of the South Bend Tribune. 
JOHN JOSEPH N0Lr\N has pronounced final vows as Brother Anselm of Jesus, F.S.C., a member of the Brothers of the Christian Schools. He js teaching at Bishop Loughlln Memorial High School in Brooklyn, N. Y. 
JfVMES P. REEDY, formerly an assistant general 
- solicitor, has been named a general attorney for the Milwaukee Road in Chicago. 
I OCA Richard F. Hahn 
• '^ ^ 6930 No. Odell Chicago 31, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT M. a\NNON, Des ^foines, la-, has been appointed to the executive staff of the lotva Development Commission to serve as an industrial field representative. Bob is married and has two children. 
Recently J^VMES C. FUNARI was elected presi­dent of the Catholic Professional Men's .-Vssociatlon of Allentown, Pa., where he now resides. For three years Jim has been assistant to the president of Lehigh Engineering Co. in Bethlehem, Pa. 
JOSEPH C. HARKDfS, JR., has been appointed manager of the Kearny, N. J., plant of Congoleum-Naim, Inc. Joe lives in Patcrson, N. J., and is the father of three small daughters. 
DR. JA^iES E. McMEEL, JR., is still the lea-dent ph>*slcian at Bendw .-Vriation Corporation's South Bend plant. 
GENE THILAL\N still lives in South Bend and for the past few years has been helping Bendix turn out Talos guided missiles for the U. S. Navy. 
GEORGE R. RHODES, who took his Master's with the class, is directing the new association of "old students" aided by Catholic Scholarships for Negroes, Inc. The national group is called Alumni-C.S.N. 
Old glee club soloist BOB RUETZ has been sing­ing grand opera at Indiana University and else­where. Bob expects to take his orals at I. U. this year for a doctorate in music, 
I QE1 Robert J- Klingcnberger 
•'^ ' 2634 Marcy Lane Ft, Wayne, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: 
CARL A. EIFERT is working for the Milwaukee Journal. He and hb wife Elizabeth had a baby girl, Corrinc Frances, hist July 15. 
JiVMES V. LAUGHLIN recently bccamr a Bachelor of La\vs at Georgcto\x-n University. For the past few years Jim has been w-ith the 'Wash­ington, D. C, staff of Prentice-Hall, Inc., and he and Joanne have two young daughters, Kathleen and Suzanne. 
I QC2 Harry L. Buch 
• '^^ Board of Trade Bmlding Wheeling, West Virginia 
I am sorry there has been very little ne^« in recent issues. \Vill do my best to improve in the future. A fe^^- letters were received, but I have not been able to report on same due to the fact that they arc in a lost sea bag. This loss occurred as a result of my transition from military to ciWlian life. Keep the letters coming, and I will report on same. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 63 
BOB BREITER, of Bronxville, X, Y., was mar­ried on September 15 to Joan Pakcnham of Blairs­lown, X. J. X*ow liWng In Elyria, Ohio, ^vherc he is employed by Thcw Equipment Co. 
HEXRY C. MAHER is now associated with the 
W. F. Hayes Emploj-ment Scr\-icc in Louisville, Ky. After hax-ing spent 18 months in Japan, he received an M.A. in philosophy in June. At present he IS also co-diairman in charge of placement of Xotrc Dame men in the Ix>uisviUc area. Hcnr>''s address is 316 Speed Building, Louisville 2, Ky. 
JACK MUELLER is whh the I'caslec Gaulbert Paint Firm in LouisWIIc. Both are doing well and Jack looks in shape to go ten rounds with anyone. 
PAUL M.ALOXEY is in the insurance business in Loui5\-iIIe. 
From tlic Alumni Office: JOSEPH T. CONLOX has been appointed as­sistant counsel on the staff of the U. S. House Subcommittee on Legislative Ovcrsight-DR, JA.MES J. DOAV'NS, %v-ho received his if.S. wt h the class, is a chemist willi Midwest Research Institute, working with high-energy boron fuels for use in jets and missiles. >VILLL\M J. DOYLE is manager of the new Cleveland office of the Life Insurance Company of North America. CVRL EIBERGER has located with one of his native Denver's leading law firms, Akolt, Turn­quist. Shepherd & Dick. Previously a claims al­tomc>' with the Army, Carl is also president of the Cathedral Young People^s Club in Denver. Since graduation from the Georgetown Law School J. RAYMOXD SIEXER has been admitted to the Tennessee and D. C. Bar and is an attorney in the Land Branch of TVA in Chattanooga^ Tenn. 
OVPTAIX VIRGIL H. VOSS has completed his internship and is serving a two-year term as an Air Force doctor­
1952 Thomas W. Reedy 
337 Wagner Road 
Northfield, Illinois 
JOE .MOUNTAIN has Joined the technical serv­
ice unit of the Esso Research and Engineering 
Company. Previous to this position, Joe scr\-cd 
with the Army Chemical Corps at Rock Mountain 
Arsenal in Denver, Colo. 
\Vc\e received a very interesting letter from JACK piLENSCHNEIDER who, with his wife and two cliildren live in Ei-anston, III., where he is studying law at Northwestern University. Jack writes: 
"GERRY VOIT, my old roommate, writes from Philadelphia that now that CHARLIE FLUEHR has married, he remains the most eligible baclielor on the east coast. Gerr>* is an executive trainee with Bell Telephone. He also reports BOB DEAK has received his M.D. and is now interning at Temple Hospital in Philly. 
"WALT WERNER is now rooming with ROLLIE TREHEARNE in deluxe bachelor quarters on Sheridan Road in North Chicago. Werner is in Ins last year at Northwestern Law School from whence LES 2ACZEK graduated last year, and RolHc is working on his master's degree in E.E. up on the Evanston campus. Walt tells mc that he ran onto BOB HOODECHECK at the Navy game this fall and that Bob is attending Georscto\%'n Law School. DICK WOLFGRAM recently received his Master's degree from Northwestern and is now hard at work on the Evanston campus as a financial ad­ministrator. 
"ERNIE DUPRAW and his wife, Ginny, and 
their two cliildren passed through here early in 
September. Ernie who picked up his Ph.D. from 
Columbia while his wife earned her ^LA. from 
New York University, is now an associate professor 
of zoology at the University of Florida in Galnes­
\-illc. 
"NORM FELTES received his M.B.A. in English 
from the University of Dublin this past year. I was 
told that if Norm did not show up in the Chicago 
area in the fall it would indicate tliat he Is in 
England doing further graduate work at Oxford. 
I take it he is there now. Don't know Khcre 
JOHN HELLMAN is now but last word xvas that 
64 Notre Dame Alumnus, March, 1958 
he was working on an ad\.-anced degree in English at Washington University in St. Louis. 
"BILL BERRY and his family arc at Marquette where Bill is teacliing engineering." Tlianks Jack for your most interesting news. 
AUGUST FREDA has been named an assistant professor of Metallurgical Engineering at the Uni­versity of Pittsburgh. Dr. Freda graduated from Notre Dame with a Ph.D. in Mctallurg>-. 

FRANK B.\LDWIN has been appointed a sec­tion head in the chemicals i^search division at the ESSO Research and Engineering Company in Linden, N. J- Frank is responsible for coordinating the division's product development work in plastic materials. He had been group head in the division's butyl tire section. 
ED O'CONNOR «Tites from Indianapolis that he and his \rife Mary Lou have a two-year-old named Marie Clare and sLx-month-oId twins, Kevin and Kathleen, who manage to keep things pretty lively. Ed is Assistant Manager of the Indiana National Bank's branch at 20th and Meridian Streets, Indianapolis. Ed spent two years in the Army at Fort Knox, Ky., serving there with several other ND'crs, including VIC GEORGE and GOOCH LEWINSKI. 
JOHN O'BRIEN Is tn the automobile business In Indianapolis and has four children. 

JOE DE SAUTELS Is with the Geo. H. Dc Sautels Co., manufacturer's agents and has two little girls, the oldest Just a liltlc over a year. 
BOB RUST is now manager of his family's Fair Store in Grccnsburg, Ind., where Bob and Rita live with the three little Rusts. 
DON CARBONE writes from Battle Creek, Mich, to report that he and BUCK HENNIG.AN are on the Planning Staff prina'pally concerned with long range avil defense planning and proj­ects. He says the work is quite sobering but vcr>' satisfying. Don reports that JOHN O'CONNELL and his wife announce the birth of Raymond, born .\ugust 2. John is in the Air Force as a narigator. 
BILL REIDY married Barbara Beck from Kcnil­worth. III. on November 30 and is now honey­mooning in New Orleans. Bill is still in the Navy stationed at Great Lakes and expects to enter civilian life sometime after the first of the year. 
Many of you may have noticed, as I did, the recent advertisements of the 1958 Chevrolet with none other than "our own" BRIAN KELLY as the Man of Distinction. Quite a life Brl— but who's that gorjus blonde next to you? 
From all reports and the interest being shown, the Class of '53 will be well represented at the FIve-Ycar Class Reunion at Notre Dame on June 6, 7 and 8. It's not to early to make up your plans now and line up your traveling crowd for the Big Reunion. I've heard tell there's a prize for the one among us who's gained the most weight since graduation day so this should be quite a contest. I'm sure many of us feel that "we are very mucli In the running in this department. There's been some talk about getting shirts, or hats with our Class Year on them. Let mc know your feelings on this. So, see you at the Reunion! 
From the Alumni Office: HAL TOMPKINS, among other activities, is pumping a church organ In Cincinnati. 
1 954 George A. PHaum, Jr. '** 4262 Catalpa Drive, No. 2 Dayton 5, Ohio 
Gentlemen, if you will allow me a few minutes to digress from our usual task here of announcing who's doing what and where, I would like to review some statistics from the October-November issue of the Notre Dame Alumnus. I am referring to the Class Contributions Report that appeared In that issue. Our illustrious class made a fine show­ing when compared with those of the same era; however, I don't feel that this is the real comparison that we should use to judge our cfTcctivencss in this whole campaign. Rather, I feel that the sig-" nificant figure lies in the percentage of contributors. You will remember in our last year on campus a drive was conducted among the students with the hope of traching a time-proven rule that it's not the amount but rather the percentage of con­tributors. At that time our class recorded a little over 99 per cent in the u'ay of active contributors. In this latest report there is quite a significant change In this figure. A rough calculation places the percentage of contributors at 27 per cent. I 

- think this figure Is significant for all of us and little else need be said. Surely that could stand some improving. 
With my sermon out of the way and with tlie hope that it is welt-taken, I will swing right Into tlie stack of mail that conlronts me. Our worthy class president deserves our congratulations on the basis of the following formal-looking document that bears his name. "Mr. and Mrs. William Edward AVhIte request the honor of your presence at the marriage of their daughter Lorctta Marie to Mr. WILLIA.M JAMES GUILFOILE on Saturday, the ninth of November at an eleven o'clock Nuptial Mass, Saint Brendan's Church, Brooklvn, New York." 

PHIL BIR reports In from 214 S. Sherman Street, LaGrangc, Ind. with the follouing Information: "Now that I'm out of the Army and settled once again as a good old civilian, I thought I'd drop you a line giving you my present address to put in the Alumnus, for it would be wonderful to hear from some of my former classmates again, and also from any "glee clubbers." I'm selling for Town and Country- Food Company out of Ft. Wayne, Ind. now and I like my Itkt very well. I'm still a baclielor and In the "completely unattached" bracket. Received a letter from my former room­mate and classmate, FRAN ROMANCE and his wife, Ann. Tliey now have a baby daughter, ^fary. Fran and his family are presently stationed in Africa, Fran is in Naval Air Intelligence. Know he \vouId certainly enjoy hearing from his former classmates, too. I-Iis address is Ens. Fran J. Ro­mance, USNR, Box 23, Navv- 214, FPO, New York, New York. Noticed KEN SCHWARZ's name in the last Issue of Alumnus. Could you please send me his present address?" 
JOE and CELESTE COURAND announce the 

arrival of Gregory Joseph, who Joined their clan 
last September in Houston, Texas. 
From the land of swaying palm trees, roaring 

surf and long white beach, VAL CHUN of 607 
Walpa La, Honolulu 17, Hawaii sends the following: 
"I just finished in June a course of studies in-
English and Education at the University of San 
Franusco and I'll be teacliing English this fall at 
my old high school alma mater, St. Louis, here 
in Honolulu. Wliile in San Francisco I bumped 
into several fellows: BERNIE PAULSON, who's 
married and will £oon join the ranks of the edu­
cators; CHARLES LOCHTEFELD, after Mass one 
Sunday, he u^as In the Navv- then stationed in the 
cityj JOHN SNAKARD, who lived a few blocks 
from where I w-as staying, was just leaving the 
city and the service to head back East. Here In 
Honolulu DICK LEONG completed his tour of 
duty in Europe and is now with a civil engineering 
consulting firm. KIM WONG completed his tour 
up In Washington State and is now vrith Bishop 
Securities In Honolulu. Met TONY and IDA 
TRIGIANI at a Notre Dame beach party. He 
looks most prosperous despite his U. S. Army 
affiliations. Navy Lieutenant DON BURKHARDT 
is stationed out at Pearl and likes the Islands, loo. 
Ran into HUGH BRAUN, ('53) the very next day 
at the tennis courts. He finished up In law at 
Midiigan and is on his way to Tokyo — Air Force 
legal officer. My number's 8-6976, George, or I can 
be gotten in touch with at St. Louis High School. 
I sure would like to sec any of the fellows who 
may be passing through. Surfboarding Is not my 
meat but I'd be game." 
Out of the swamps in Georgia comes the cry of 

•\\1LLIAM A. MEYER that it will all be over in 
, June. Until then he <:an be found at H.Q. Btry. l3th.AA Group, Fort Ste**-art, Georgia. From all he reports, he can have it. He did manage a trip back to civilization and Cleveland where he dis­covered the following: JOHN REEDY, a graduate of Western Reserve Law School, married Miss Carol Van Rooy last summer. He is a member of the Ohio Bar, but he is presently sweating out a six-month active duty tour with the Army. VERN ESSI received his broker's license and is currently handb'ng investments with the National Security House of Payne, Weber, Jackson, and Curtis in Cleveland. He is also the proud father of a one­year-old boy, Paul. PAUL MINNICK is helping to keep our Army ranks strong and still manages quite a bit of golf at his station In Japan. DICK GERBRACHT is working for McCann Erickson Company in their Cleveland office. Tlianks very mudi. Bill, and we all sincerely hope that your swamp fever shots are cfTcctivc. TED BYRNE and his family arc living at 5 A Saycr Court In Madison, New Jersey. Ted is employed by the Bell Telephone Laboratories In ^\'llippany, New Jersey as an elec­tronic engineer and is also doing graduate work at New York University. Their first baby, Tliomas Edward, Joined the fold last August. 
Received the following from DAVE FOY, but I am inclined to think that he is holding back some information from us: "I've been working in the East for the past few months and just about the time tlic Irish played Army, I happened to be In Pliilly (with ticket). Here is who I saw: BOB NANOVIC, PHIL BOLIN (from a distance), TOM ROGERS, BOB WRIGHT, the TIERNEYS, BILL BURKE. BOB KEATING, and JOE MALONEY and TONY LAPASSO. Joe Moloney u-as passing out pict\trcs ot his two-year-old daughter. JOHN KENEFECK took three days from Camp Gordon, Georgia to attend. BILL REYNOLDS and CLEM MA\VICKE were on the grand tour from Chicago to New York for the series, and then to this memorable game. FRj\NK RAITH and liis bride were there. Also JOHN BUNDSCHUH and his wife. And me — I work for Norton Company in Worcester, Mass. Kind of a huge outfit — 4,500 employees in this town alone. In February of '58 I'll be moved out to some territory — possibly Chicago. Until then I can be reached at the Norton Company, in their Sales Training Depart­ment." 
BRYON >VILLIA.MS is about to complete his senior year at St. Louis University Med School, but better than that, he married the former Miss Sheila Handlcy of St. Louis last summer. He men­tions the possibility of an internship with the Army^ for confirmation yon can reacli him at 3616 Castle-man Avenue, St. Louis II, Missouri. Br^'on informs that PHIL HIGGINS, MIKE LEVIS and DAN HELLMA N arc also finishing up their Med School studies at St. Louis. HERM KRIEGHAUSER is associated with his father in St. Louis in their mortuary btisiness. Br>'on offers an opcnhousc for any travelers in the St. Louis area and requests that you call him at PR 6-3797 if you are in the area. 
More St. Louis news comes from BOB CHICKY "ho is again settled in that area. He is engaged in the industrial heating business which, he ex­plains, he enjoys but admits that it is a rather difl'erent field for a sociology major. Bob repeats the invitation to those in the St. Louis area to contact hini. He ofTers you the services of the local Alumni Club by contacting him at his home at 1220 Bellc\-uc Avenue, Richmond Heights, Mo. "Chick" also sends the following: BILL MURPHY is in Okinawa with the Marine Legal Section, having been sent there after hi$ graduation from St. Louis Law School. DEWEY GODFREY also graduated from there witli a law degree in 1956. He is practicing here in St. Louis and in addition to tliat is the proud father of three cliildrcn. JACK SEXTON is attending Har\-ard Graduate School. PHIL BOLIN is in Prowdcnce, R. L in the ad­vertising business. I believe that PAT CARRICO is in Cleveland, Ohio and is associated with the United Press there. DICK ROSENTHAL is living in Fort Wayne, Ind., and Is in the banking business in addition to being the father of a little girl. 
, FRED MANGIALARDI was recently married to the former Miss Lois Mac Conway in Chicago, They are now Ii\-ing at 5440 West Jackson Blvd., Chicago, 
III. Fred is working for the Denver-Chicago Truck­ing Company in their Sales Department. 
TOM ROGERS supplied the column with the following lengthy report from 11821 S. Bell Avenue, Chicago 43, III. "Just a note to let ever>"onc know where some of the boys arc and what they are doing. While going to Loyola Dental School since that big day almost four years ago, I have been able to keep in contact with several of our class­mates. I myself hope to get that DDS next June. Last Julv, FRANCOIS PINGON, BILL DALY, and m>-sclf saw to it that JOHN PIGOTT didn't get out the back door before he married Sheila Biid­dingcr of Winctka, IlL Tliey are living at 14 Sccord Drive near MacDIIl AFB in Tampa, Fla. where 
f John hopes to spend his last year in service before resuming his law studies. RON (the Crumb) C/XULEY is liWng in Arlington, Va. (46(H 28th Road) with his lovely wife. Peg, and his two chil­dren, Kevin and Sharon. He is with the Navy, as a civilian, and is working for his masters in Nuclear Engineering at Marv-land University. JOHN Mc-GRAW is once again a civilian. He had a pretty soft job for two years as the General's orderly at Fitzsimmons Army Hospital in Denver. BILL 
( DALY, of bookstore fame, has been enjoying civilian life in sunny Chicago after spending 18 months in rainv Seattle. He is now working for Burrows Corp. and doing right well for himseU. FR/\NCOIS (Doc) PINGON passed the bar in Kentucky last summer and is now clerking for a while in Frankfort. His address is 526 Steele. Doc was one of those lucky guys to whom Uncle said "we don't want you." I guess it pays to play football in grade school. 
c/o Fleet Post Office, New York, New York and contained the following: "Looking through an Alumnus Magazine on a hot night at sea ofT Florida, came the thought — never have written to George about the doings of the USMC. So here it is for what it is worth—the biography of J. J. KEEN^VN. As you can see from the address, I'm still in . . . regular through and through. After Quantico in '54 I headed west for a one year tour with ihr First Marine Division. Lived with JOHN ENGLE­H{\RT for the last three months I was there. Lost track of him when he went back to Q'co for Comm. Scliool. In February, 1956, I reported aboard this cast iron bird farm for duty "ac sea." Made the standard Far East Deployment from July, 1956 to January' 1957. While out there I ran into AL SUALSKY in Okina%%-a and SKIP DOYLE in Yokosuka. Just missed KEN PATTERSON at Atsugi. After two months in San Diego we hit SF where I spent some lime with SKIP Mx\DIG.\N. Hc*s in ilie house building and selling business with his father in ^Valnut Creek. From there wc (the Essex) went 'round the horn to Mayport, Fla. Just came back from a NATO cruise to Scotland and England. I get detached on the first of the year to go to the 2nd Mar. Div. at Camp Lejeune. I hope to find some of the old standbys tticre." 
JIM LIBER^VTORE was married last June to the former Miss Nancy Lea Harvey of Cleveland. He is now the District Sales ^fanage^ of the Chicago office of the Mills Partition Company of Cleveland. TOM KNOTT is an assistant director of W.J.A.R.­TV at Providence, R. I. 
After the Iowa game last fall, I became involved in a ratlier large group of gentlemen from our class. I will try to repeat the details on all of them but due to the degree of involvement after that game, and the length of the involvement, which stretched nearly to midnight, I will no doubt leave out and interchange a few of their activities. Nevertheless, here is a run-down on the rummies I was with. JOHN GROSSPIETSCH is a market specialist in air conditioning with Whirlpool Corporation in St. Joseph, Mich. John still has his zest for foreign cars and beverage, but will break from cither of these topics long enough to show you eight or ten pictures of his son. MILT BEAUDINE still ciierishcs a green derby which has carried him through all home games over the past two seasons. 
RAY "Mickey*' MORAN calls Memphis borne again since his release frota the Army. Ray Is stiU as single as ever and actively engaged In selling "family coverage" plans for those who need in­surance. BILL MORLEY is with the Chicago office of the O^vens-Corning Fiber Glass Company. He may be reached in the Pure Oil Building at 33 East Wackcr Drive in Chicago. JOE AfcGINN is also in Chicago and is engaged in the Insurance business. JOE JOYCE isn't a general just yet in 
the Army, but expects to make it before his six-month tour at Fort Benjamin Harrison in Indian­apolis is over. JAY BAIER is an attorney in Chi­cago. BILL BURKE and BOB %VRIGHT were both Up from Cincinnati. Bob is a credit manager In the local office in Cincinnati of the Proctor and Gamble Company. JOHN SAIZ Is back on campus as a civilian doing further work In English and philosophy. BILL REYNOLDS u-antcd me to em-' phasize that he js still single and eli^ble and in Chicago working with his father In the construction business. GENE HOWLEY has decided not to be­come Chief of Naval Operations but is applying his talents to the Wcstinghouse Corporation in Chicago. He and Reynolds ^rill no doubt make a tough combination In the social circles of that city. Tliat, to the best of my memory were the troublci­causers that X was with that evening. A fewi weeks previous to that I spent some time with JAKE NOONAN who is still eng^ed as a cattle baron In Sioux City, lov^'a. 
I must ask for your prayers for the repose of the soul of TOM BLIND who was killed in a. jet crash in Japan last summer. His wife may be as­sured that we will all remember his intention in our prayers. 
That's it. If reunion plans arc to be made, I have to hear from you, so why not now. 
From the Alumni Office: 
ROBERT PAUL GORMAN, who got out of law school last year. Is now a clerk for Supreme Court Justice Tom C. Clark in Washington, D. C. 
I aC C Thomas F. 0*\falley 
• ^^^ 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Missouri 
I would like to begin my column by expressing sincere sympathy, on behalf of the Class of 1955, 
In answer to JOHN POIRIER's quest for news 
about RAY ROSEDALE, I only know that he is Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, '31, Dean of the CoIl^c of Science, was the prmcipal speaker at still at Loyola Med School and by all that is proper the graduation exercises held recently at Goodfellow Air Force Base, Texas, Left to right 
should be a senior.*' 
arc Lt. James Baldinger, *56, son of the guest speaker who was a member of the graduating 
A rather official-looking piece of mail arrived from the Marine Detachment, U.S.S, Essex (CViVQ), 
class; Dr. Baldinger; and Col. A. G. Evanoff, base commander. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, March* 1958 65 
to the parents of JOHN E. EG/\N, JR., and ED^VARD JOHN MURPHY, who passed away in September. Also, our sincere s^Tnpathy to JOHN SENNETT on the death of his father, Mr. Thomas 
G. Scnnctt. I'm certain that they all will be re­membered in our prayers. 
In ansu-er to the thousands and thousands of let­

ters that I have received from *55 grads asking how 
they can contribute to the class column, I'm sorry, 
gentlemen, but we only have room for tlie ne*vs 
from seven hundred letters at the most so you'll 
just have to ^vait your turn. If you have something 
special to report, however, wc might be able to 
sneak you in under the wire. Entries will be based 
on originality and neatness. 
I'm going to initiate a special feature in the 

column tliis issue. I'll call it the "What Ever 
Happened To—" section and if anyone has news 
of the men whose names appear there, please con­
tact your local Alumni News representative and 
give him the information. To save some time, your 
local representative is listed at tlie beginning of this 
column. 
From campaign headquarters comes the news that 

PHIL BURKE has been elected treasurer of his 
class at the State University* of ^fedlclne in Syra­
cuse, N. Y. Phil is in his third year and pr'o­
grcssing smoothly. Also in the accomplishment 
category-, JOHN ^VANCHO^V has been promoted to 
Associate Engineer in Product Development by tlie 
RCA Electron Tube DInsion in Harrison, N. J. 
ED ZOTTER, who has been retail sales super­

visor for the Coated /Vbraslves Di\ision, Armour and 
Company, has now been promoted to the post of 
industrial sales supcr\'isor and will continue to 
handle sales in the Detroit area. LOUIE MON­
TEIL wTitcs that he has just completed basic 
training at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo., and Is now 
stationed at the Army Chemical Center in Mar>'­
land. It seems tliat there are other N. D. men 
also spending some time at this test tube paradise. 
JERRY FROEHLICH is a member of the group 
and he and his wife. Jackie, arc expecting their 
first child shortly. BOB HUPPE and JOE MC­
CARTHY arc also stationed at the chemical center 
and enjoy it more every day. (That last sentence 
is a direct quote from an Army public information 
manual.) LEO H.\^VK was stationed with the 
above grads but has been released from the Army 
and has married the former Miss Arlenc Froelich in 
Detroit on September 14. 
JIM COPPERSMITH found time to send a very news>' letter for which Ym indebted. Of course, I alwa>'5 appreciate mail and my thanks to the grads from the Class of 1902 for sending me all of the mail that has helped mc so much in writing my column. Jim mentions that he is about to start his last year at ^fa^quette Law School. I don't remember ha«ng any news of this before but Jim mentions that he has a fifteen-month-old daughter. It may be somewhat belated, Jim, but congratulations to you and -your wife. The news to follow is from Jim's letter. WALT McKENNA has been stationed at 5th Army Headquarters in Chicago for the last 18 months and he and his wife Betty are expecting another McKcnna soon. JOHN D^^'YER and his wife, Jacque, had a female young newborn in July. Congratulations. John is stationed with the Army £n "Washington, D. C. PAUL DA\*YER is still with an accounting firm in Chicago and he and his ^\'ife are also w-aiting for that blessed event. JOHN HARTIGAN ^ras seen at a wedding in June. He's attending Northwestern Law School and it's rumored that he will accept a coaching position at Vassar in the near future. 
Wth a reminder that it's only three years until reunion time, FRED MAROON checked in again to let me know of his acti\-ities. He has just completed Air Force Surviv'al School in Reno, Ne^"ada- You're doing well to survive in that town, Fred. He's now attached to a B-47 wing in Little Rock, Ark. Fred men­tions that JOE NASSIF received a direct commis­^on after being drafted and is now stationed at Fort Leonard AVood, Mo. It's not too far from Kansas CIt>-, Joe. and I'd like to hear from you some \vcek end. 
WHAT EVER HAPPENED TO — TOM ROG­ERS, TED LAUGHLIN, JIM STEVENS, JIM RILEY (of Muskegon), LEO Z.VTTA, DON PETERS, SOLLY NEDDLEMAN, HOWTE HART, NEAL HALLORAN, DON HATZ, PAUL FA2­ZONE, PAUL FITZGERALD, BOB DINNEN, BILL CRLMMINS, BOB BURNETT, JOHN BERGMAN, and PAT McGAHAN. 
BERT METZGER writes from out China Lake, Calif, \\-ay that he is stationed at the Na\'al Ord­nance Test Station. He, his ^rife, and their nine-month-old son plan to leave the Na\*y in June and return to Chicago. Bert may then enter law school. 
€6 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Marchj 2958 
DAVE METZ married the former Miss Maria 

Quinn on September H at the Nax'al Air Station 
Chapel, Alameda, Calif. Congratulations and best 
wishes to them both. RON RENE was recently 
selected to attend and has since completed a course 
in arrangement of life Insurance estates for the 
Aetna Life Insurance Company. The class was made 
up of a small group of selected representatives 
from all parts of tlie country. 
DICK REAMER writes again from Vienna, and 

I must say tliat for one so far from home, he 
certainly does a fine job of keeping me posted on 
his foreign hijinks. Dick sa)*; tliat tltere have been 
several men from Notre Dame over there but none 
from tlie class of '55. Let's have a "Send this '55 
grad to A'ienna" contest. All entries are to be 
received no later tlian June 4, 1955. Dick's 
letters are always ver>- entertaining and I'd like to 
quote one section for you. *'Onc day in May, 
most of us got togetlier with my *'Terry Brennan 
Model" football and threw a no-holds-barrcd, 
toucli, tackle, and last rites football game in 
X^enna's famous amusement park. Other fellows 
from use , Midilgan, Harx-ard, NYU, and Port­
land U. joined in tlie game. The result was 
that ^ve drew a crowd of several hundred curious 
people and after the game wc held a coaching 
clinic on the spot. Don't think It will ever replace 
the waltz in AHenna." 
TOM DONOHUE writes from South Bend where 

he and his wife, and three cliildren are in tlie 
process of buying a house. Tom received lib 
Master's Degree in English from ND in January 
of 1957. 
AVILVT EVER HAPPENED TO — D.AN 

SHANNON, TOM CAREY, ART EGGERS, PAT 
HALEY, TO.M QUINN, JACK SOOR.ANNOO, 
WALT KAV/VNAUGH, FRANK CLELAND (of 
Shrine game fame), BILL CANNING, RENE 
L.\a\YO, AVALT KACZMAREK, SAM BUDNYK, 
and GEORGE ROONEY. 
. PAUL MANSFIELD married the former Miss 
Barbara Hlavaty on Jiily 20. Paul is now stationed 
with tlie Army in Germany after attending the 
language school at Monterey, Calif. BUD La-
LONDE writes from Michigan State University 
that he received his Master's in Bus. Adm. from 
the Unlversitj- of Detroit In August. He's now 
^v'orking on his Ph.D. in Marketing at MIcliigan 
State. Thanks very much. Bud, sending just the 
facts ^^•as a big help. 
A better late than never note arrived from PHIL CHINN and it certainly was good to hear from him. He's married and has two little girls, Susie, 2^ , and Karen, 1. Phil is presently a manage­ment trainee \rith the Scars Roebuck Co. in Flint, Mich, and is managing the domestics department In the store there. He requests the usual information on TOM COZAD, CHARLIE DURYEA, and DON PIZZUTELLO. For that matter, so do I, men. BEN REIDY writes that he is attending Har\-ard Business School and plans to get his M.A. this June. 
From the Alumni Ofiice: JOHN C. CASEY, separated from the Army and with a baby daughter bom last July, has been working as a trainee with Lincoln Rochester Trust Co., Rochester, N. Y. JOSEPH W. JAMES, who has been studying at the Gregorian University in Rome, was ordained to the priesthood for the Diocese of AmarlUo, Tex., December 15. DAVE KILKEARY has finished at Sacred Heart Noritlate, Jordan, Minn., and is back on campus as a seminarian. DENNIS LAUGHLIN has been doing grapbics, set design and art direction for TV films at the Signal Corps Center In Long Island City, N. Y. He'll be a mnlian come summer. ^Vell, gentlemen, as tlie saying goes, "Tliat's all she wrote." Or rather, that's all you wrote. Sorr^* to have such a short one this time but my post card requests for nc^vs haven't been bringing the results tliat I had hoped for. As Arch Ward used to say, "The Wake Depends, Help!!, Upon its Friends, Help!! 
I OCA John P. Deasy 
5697 North Lmcoln Avenue 
Glucago 43, Illinois 

It is now Thanksgiving Day throughout the land, the house is quiet, the tm-key has been demolished. By the time this column reaches you, the holi­days shall have passed, so, if I may, will you aUo^v me this opportunity to extend a belated sincere wish tliat it was a very Merry Christmas and that the blessings of Our Lady ^vere with you during the Holy Season, and may they remain throughout the comine year. 
Just as the last Issue went to press, a letter 
arrived from Dr. Alvin E. Vltt, the father of our 
class secretary . . . "AL \%*as married to Miss 
Janet Carohti Weber of St. Louis on July 6, at 
the Church of Tlie Immaculata in St. Louis, Mo." 
Congratulations to Al and Janet. 
Our Vice-President, JOE BILL, dropped a line, 
saying that he was on his way to spend six montlis 
at Ft. Dlx, N. J. Joe has been with the America 
Fore Insurance Co. and was the best man for JIM 
GAMMON and his bride, Joanne, last Labor Day. 
Joe ran into JIM ROGERS who is expecting their 
second, and JAY MADIGAN who has been called 
into the Air Force. 
Many thanks to the parents of FIRST LT. JIM McCLi\Y, JR. They have been sending The Alumnus to him in Japan and now to Okinawa where Jim is in charge of the 81 M ^[ Mortar Platoon of the 3rd Marine Division, and is soon to be in charge of the entire Weapons Company. Mr. and Ifrs. McClay of Roslyn Hgts., New York, also mentioned that Jim would be happy to hear from his classmates. His address is: 1st Lt. J. J. McClay, Jr. - 071362, AVeapons Co. 1st Battin, 9th ^Iari^es, 3rd Marine Division, FMF - c/o F.P.O., San Francisco, Calif. 
Memo to parents of members of the Class of '56. It would be appreciated by the column if you could forward some information about your sons, should thc>- be stationed in some far-off land, as did Mr. and Mrs. McClay. 
DAVE McFADDEN reported from 2526 S. 83 St., West Allis, Wise. Dave Is now \rith tlic AUIs-Chalmers Mfg. Co. in Milwaukee and enjoying the home of the Braves. 
Thanks to the Alumni Ofiicc and our editor JOHN CACKLEY, '37, for forwarding the Infor­mation on TOM SHEEILVN, who received his Master of Arts from Ohio State Unlx-ersity at the summer convocation last August 30. Also for the letter from BOB COLZANI who by now is witli the Array Security Agency in Frankfort, Germany. Bob's letter of September 22, came from Helper, Utah, mentioning that DICK W*EBER (Btry. A 436 AAA, MSL BN, Tra\-is AFB, Calif.) is still single and painting the streets of San Francisco green. . . . DAVE WENTLING took the big step and is now happily married to wife and Air Force (at 210 A Croyden Ave., Billy Mitchell Village, San Antonio, Texas). Bob ran into MIKE HORNE In the chow line at Ft. Carson, Colo. Mike is now^ in the finance business with Uncle Sam . . . Bob closed off his letter with a short statement that is important to the Class of '56 . . . GREET­INGS . . . Good Luck to all. 
JOHN BOWER, JR. Is now living in Pittsburgh and working at the United States Steel Applied Research Laboratory, after spending fifteen months as a research assistant at the University of Illinois while working for an M.S. in Theoretical and ' Applied Mechanics. Last October John ran Into GERRY SHEA while attending the National ASCE Convention In New York. Gerry is working for a consulting firm in New York City. John an­nounced that his new address is: 2W& Beechwood BK-d., Pittsburgh 17, and that his roomie CLAR­ENCE DONOVAN was married last February. 
From the narrows of New York harbor, "CRAZY CHRIS (of WSND) RETTZ" sent in a little news. He peeked out of the "Jazz Panorama" and is now engaged to Shirley Whitman of Camden, N. J. Chris is the Chaplain's Assistant at Ft. Hamilton which is the main departure point for Army per­sonnel being sent to Europe—so If any of the troops are passing thru, he asked that they stop jn and say hcHo at the Post Chapel. The 'White Plume's address is: U. S. 51388482, Hq. Co. U.S. Army GAR, Ft. Hamilton, Brooklyn 9, N. Y. 
JOHN "R." DONNELLY asks that VINCE FALZARANO. TOM TOOMEY and LARRY FARMER sit right down and send him some news to: 9 Laurel Manor Court No. 2, Laurel, Maryland. John and Corrine were married the day after graduation and are now expecting a son, the end of March. He was in the administration of Over­seas National Airlines In San Francisco, was then drafted and sent to Ft. ^fcade, Md. Presently, he is w-ith the Military Police, not In custody, but a Ps>*chiatric Technician, or better known as a **hcad shrinkcr,*' at the Post Stockade. .. . It seems that he saw JOHN "SKINT^i'Y" DODD tlierc, who is on active duty for six months working at the 2nd Army Publications section and not one of his custodians. . . . J. D. heard from D.WE CLARK now in Korea working for the Provost Marshall's ofiice. . . . Our best wishes to John and Corrine in tlic coming blessed event. 8 to 5 it's a girl ... 
JOHN MANION, 4944 ^V. Forest Home Ave., Milwaukee 19, Wise, and recent bride, Mary Ann, UTotc that JERRY SWEENEY managed to usher some of the lovely women folk down the long isle last September 7. Joining (he bride and groom in a toast were TOM and a\TH V BOTT. John said that JERRY MASSEY and his new wife, the former Ann Schullhesis of SMC have set up house­keeping in South Bend. His twin brother, JIM MASSEY (0071489, USMC, HQ. CO. 4, TRl'S, FM PLANT, Camp Lejeunc, N. C.) served as best man with John and ENS. HAL SPENCER (USNR c/o U.S.S. Henry Tucker, DDR875, PPO San Fran­cisco, Calif.) as ushers. Jim reported ihat he is scrvii\g as aide-de-camp to General Wade; he also mentioned sometliing about having set June 21 as the date for his marriage to Miss Kalhryn Kramper of SMC '57. A wire from TOM and MARY JO KIRSCHISNIK, Rock Springs, Wyo., announced that they were awaiting ihc arrival of Tom, Jr. in Januar>'. .. . It is now ENS. DON LOGAR (Class 47-56) NATTU, .VASS, El Centro, Calif. Tliank you, John, and congratulations lo all. 
Received a letter that must be reported in full, so here goes: Quolc: TU add a little information for your next column and hope it will help you out a bit. I'm now a 2/Lt. in the U. S. Army located at Ft. Monmouth, N. J. My duty, John, is Post .'Xtliletic Officer. I'm supervising the sports program and also coaching the Post track team. I competed in the All-Army Track Championship at Ft. Hood, Texas in June and competed with BERNIE ALLr\RD. Bernic was with the 6lh U. S. Army team and I represented the 1st U. S. Army team. Here at Ft. Monmouth wc have XHKE WADE and JOE FRAN2GR0TE. All arc 2yLts. also; they are all six month officers and will leave next week. What, a racket! Down at the Army-
N. D. game we really had a great time. Had a few drinks with GERRY RYAN, JOE KURZEJA, MIKE KILEY and BOB SLMPKINS. There were so many others but I can't remember ihcm all. We really had a great time, it looked like a Saturday night at "Dragoons," "Jocrs" and "Till­man's"! 
I hear JOHN FANNON is at Hawaii and BILL WELMAN is down at Florida, both arc 2/Lis. JOHN McMULLEN is playing football at Ft. Dix, 
N. J., and doing very well. Jolm is now married to the former Dolores Voorde from South Bend. That is about all the news, John, of all the fel­lows. I hope it can add a little fuel to your column. Before I forget, also saw GORDON DI­RENZO and SIL RESCiNITI at the Army game. What ever happened to DICK F1TZGER.\LD? 
Before I forget, my wife, Barbara, had a beau­tiful 8 lb. 12 oz. boy on June 7, His name is Kevin Patrick. So now I'm not the smallest in our home! Good luck, John, and say hello to all the boys. UNQUOTE. . . . signed "SPIKE DALY." 
The last issue caugltt up with the second JOHN DO.NNELLY (BOQ Room 142, Naval Training Center, Great Lakes, III.) after his cruise aboard the Heavy Attack Carrier Hancock from April '57 to Sept. '57 with slops in Hawaii, Japan and Hong Kong and back to S. F. J. D. is expecting to go to Europe as a "publicity agent" for the Navy, touring some 16 countries. Ensign Don­nelly reports on the following: 
JIP PUERRUNG working in Cindnnati after his short hitch with the Air Force. 
JOE MARKOWSKI, University of Ontario Law School (Canada], making frequent trips to South Bend to sec a particular cutie in the N. D. athletic office. 
JOE KALB/\S holding down a good Job with 
U. S. Tire and Rubber Co. in Toledo. JAY HENDERSON at Ft. Riley, Kans. in some elite ordnance company as a lieutenant. 
ENS. TLM Mca\RTHY at Great Lakes, married not too lontr ago to a former S.M.C. "belle" and living behind JI.M GRIFFIN ('55) and the former Bunny Hennessey, also of S.^f.C. 
MIKE GANS married around Thanksgiving to a local Californtan and working in the San Francisco bav area. 
TED MADDEN and PHIL KRAEMER on easy street in Japan, then the roof caved in and they were shipped to a newly formed Naval Command in Seoul, Korea. 
SKIP BUDENBENDER at Treasure Island in San Francisco as a personnel officer. 
LEE OSTER, Commanding Officer of the Marine Welding School, San Diego, Calif., now married. 
Irrefutable evidence that the Alumnus does go all over the world was proved by a letter of November 6 from my Morrisscy and Dillon hall­matc, TOAD RYAN, (Hq. 3d Opr GP, APO 613 c/o San Francisco, Calif.). He is now in Japan as a defender of tlemocrac>', at the request of his "friends and neighbors," received just three weeks 

after graduation. . . . FATHER BROESTL, C.S.C. 
will be glad to know that the character of 356 
Dillon is enjoying himself as much as possible on 
a meager .-Vrmy salar>*. 
Congratulations to EDDIE DENN on being ap­

pointed Editor-in-Chief lo the Notre Dame Lawyer. 
. . . Continued success to TO.M CREILVN, Ri\Y 
DREXLER, POGO REILLY, JACK SNELL, 

JOHN MARSHALL, TO.M McNEILL, JOHN 
KENNEDY and Ed, in their study of the LEX 
TERR^\E in N.D.'s laiv schooL 
All will be interested to knotv that BOB BURKE 
and GENE BRENNAN were released from the 
Navy in November, due to Ike's cut in the budget. 
Retired ensigns after less than a year. How about 
that. 
Thru the grapevine come the following: 
ENS. WEPB SEXTO.N somewhere in the Pacific 
aboard the U.S.S. Molala (ATF-106) c/o F.P.O. 

San Francisco, Calif. Don't worrj-, Webb, PHIL 
WHITE is still single. 
Rosie Becker has heard from ROCK O'CONNOR 

who graduated in November and at that time was 
on his way to Panama City, Fla. with the Marine 
Radar Operation. Rock, JLM KREBS and JOHN 
DOLiVN were the ushers at the wedding of JACK 
DUMxVS, December 28. And on that same day 
GEORGE BROUCEK was married to Marge 
Smith of S.M.C. '57. Best wishes to Jack, George 
and their lovely brides. 
LT. DAVE McNA.MAR^V was married last Sep­

tember 7. Happen to have bumped into him and 
his bride at Chicago's Midway Airport as they 
were on their way to Seattle, Wash, and Lawson 
AFB- Dove and his wife were on a two hour' 
layover from Jackson, Miss. Twin brother D;\NIEL 
McNAM.\RA is in Germany somewhere near 
Heidelberg. 
BOB .McGOLDRICK is married. . . . TOM 

SWEENEY is in the Navy stationed in Baltimore. 
JERRY L. SWEE,\EY is with I.B..M. and is 

looking for JERRY GATTO. 
L.ARRY BARTH was at Ft. Carson, Colo. 
PAT SNYDER and PAT HOUREN arc at 

Quaniico. 
BONES HA.MMES rejected by Uncle Sam . , . 

underweight. 
JI.M ROSENHEI.MER selling insurance in Mil­

waukee. 
ENS. PAUL NOWL.\ND is sunning himself in 

Hawaii. 
GEORGE GIBSON will soon marr>- Miss Murphy. 
FRiVNK TIGHE is engaged and will soon marry 

Marj- Finn. 
The Class of 1956 is asked to remember in their 

prayers the father of ROGER O'REILLY, Mr. 
Eugene O'Reilly of 845 N. Grove, Oak Park, 111., 
who passed away last October 13, 1957. Rog is 
now in his junior year at the Chicago-Kent College 
of Law on scholarship. 
Your reporter had the opportunity to buzz out to Philly for the recent .Army game and it was quite an experience for this Midwcstcrner to spend the week end in tlic East. The game itself was just plain "great," the Irish along with TERRY BRENNAN are certainly to be honored for a great season. No sooner had we arrived at the Warwick Hotel and who do we sec but JIM DOWDLE who had just become a daddy with the help of Sally, of course. They called her Colleen. . . . Between Friday night and Sunday evening, either at the hotel, the pep rally, the game or the victory partv we saw JLM FISHER, DICK HOWLEY, L.\RRY DUNWORTH, LOU GIORDANO, TO.M QUINN> MIKE KILEY, ED COSGROVE, ED ROBINSO.V, MARTY WHEL.\N, BILL WELDON, BUZZ TESCHKE and BOB GUTHRIE with his wife, Monica, who are the proud parents of Robert, Jr. Had a call from Bob just two weeks ago from New York where he is busy with grad work at N. Y. U. and work with Western Electric. 
BENITO a\RR^\NE and I made the Navy Homecoming game at the Dome. Stopped in to see our Alumni Hall Rector FATHER -MURRAY, 
C.S.C. and ran into the 3rd floor Prefect FATHER NE/\LY, O.P. . . . Half-time at Gate 14 was packed as usual, but through the maze we saw DAN and MARIE QUIGLEY, DON and JOYCE MOSER, both parents vcr>- rccentlv. Also saw* PETE CANNON, OX FOX. D.AN LIDDY, and last but not least, JIM-MY iLACK, now on his way to the Mediterranean. 
Well, gang, that's all for now. From the Alumni Office: 

P.F.C. GERALD BR^VNN won a four-day whirl in New York City in December as a winner of a First Army "soldier of the month" contest. Others in the army arc SP/3 DI.MITRI GLOS5, who taught French at Notre Dame while getting his ifaster's, now in Japan, and 2nd Lt. BENJAMIN TYLER, now Chief of the Enlisted Supply Section 
at Army Ordnance School, Aberdeen Proving 
Ground, Md. 
TOM BOTT, AL SZEWC2YK and JLM 

ERLACHER arc becoming domesticated tmder the 
watchful eyes of their respective wives in Vetville 
while working on adv*anced degrees. JERRY AL\S-
SEY's grad work has been interrupted by a previous 
commitment, his Marine commission. Another 
graduate student is ED LINNEMAN. 
D/\N BRENNAN is in Albuquerque vWth the 

Air Force. 
JOHN McGIUW is now Brother Michael itc-

Graw, O.P. at the Dominican House of Studies, 
River Forest, lU. 
More academic notes: DAVID EDMOND COL­

LINS has been elected a member of the Legal Aid 
Bureau in his second vcar at Harvard Law School. 
E.M-METT VINCENT KENEFICK received an 
^LS. from Iowa State College in December, and 
ROBERT A. QUINT is studying medicine at Ohio 
State. 
JAMES J. McKENNA, JR., who look his roaster's 

with the Class, has returned to graduate study 
and v\-as married August 24, 1957. 
1 957 Charles P. Williamson 
•''^' P.O. Box 605 Alt. Vernon, Illinois 
Paul Kraus 
1730 W.Bancroft Street 
Toledo 6j Ohio 
This life in the military is certainly nothing 

compared with the relatively relaxed situation of 
law school. The hours in school were pretty regular 
and mental work somehow isn't quite as exhausting 
especially when one is v**arm and dry. And to 
think that the Army life didn't look too bad last 
May. This all goes to prove that the grass always 
looks greener on the other side of the fence. 
There isn't a great deal to report in the way of 

news though BILL McL^VIN and TOM HEELER 
have been vcr>' faithful correspondents — more so 
than myself. Therefore, I'll let you know what 
they had to report. 
First of all, Tom is stationed now at Fort Hola­bird, outside Baltimore, Md., and is attending military intelligence scliool there. From his de­tiuled letters, he sccm$ to be enjoying the duty and, ver>' much more important, the social life. \\'eck end passes have found him venturing far into Ivy-League land^Princeton University. In addition, it seems that there is a variety of comely young ladies in Baltimore who strike his fancy. His leave for Christinas extends from December 20 until January* 6, so if any of you happen to be traveling in the vicinity of Beelerville, Ind., I'm sure that you'd be welcome. His address is: Pvt. Thomas J. Bceler, BR 16584228, Co. B, Stu Bn, US A/C, Fort Ilolabird, Baltimore, Md. He also reported that GENE KUBICKI and his wife Claudia are the proud parents of a baby girl and the family is now living in Florida. 
BILL .McL.\IN, 409 Fisher Hall, Notre Dame, Ind., reported that PAT BERRIG.AN and his wife Shirley have moved to Camp Gordon, Ga. where Pat is attending military police school. I saw Pat at Sunday Mass here at Knox during my first weeks of basic but he had disappeared before I could locate him after Mass. Pat will no doubt present quite a formidable figure with the white gloves and other paraphanalia of the MP's. Bill also told me that ED FOX made himself present at every N.D. home football game, managing to take time out from his busy Chicago practice. Ed's former roommate at the apartment where so many happy gatherings congregated, JOHN ROGERS, is still at the Marine Corps School and is maintaining the highest traditions of the Corps at the social affairs for officers and pleasant wives like Dip. The Rogers' address is 58.-\ Purvis Dr., Triangle, Va. 
Following the ordeal of a week of bivouac in the rain and the final weeks of basic, I've managed to remain here at Knox, having been assigned to Company B, Class 325, of the Specialist Training Regiment for clerical school. This consists of eight weeks after which I'll receive on-the-job training for duty in my reserve unit. RON MOTTL just completed the clerical school and has been assigned to the Staff Judge Advocate's office h*rc on post. 
Guess that sums up roost of the news. Best of luck to those of you who are still waiting for bar exam results and congratulations to those many w*hD have already passed. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JIM PRICE of Columbus, in the hospital with a broken bock, would appreciate a few prayers from classmates. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Marchj 1958 67 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
February 15, 1958 Fellow Alumni: 
It is a distinct honor to be elected president of Notre Dame's 27,000 loyal alumni and I am deeply grate­ful for the opportunity of serving you and the University in this capacity during 1958. The entire Association owes a tremendous vote of appreciation to Honorar>' President Joe O'Neill, President Pat Canny and fellow officers, Pat Fisher, John Brcnnan and Joe Whalen for their imaginative and resourceful efforts to advance the prestige of Notre Dame men through various Alumni Association programs. 
I want to welcome die newly-elected members of tlie Board who attended their first meeting in January. John 0'Connor,_Jim-Shells; Joe Stewart and Chuck Rohr were chosen by dieir fellow alumni in nation-wide balloting. These directors will render valued assistance to die national program during the ensuing three years. Their enthusiasm and interest had previously been manifested in local club and class activities. 
The Board's AVinter meeting coincided widi the biennial Class Secretaries Conference which .was heldion January 18. Thirty-one alumni returned for diis important meeting and participated in a series of sessions planned to aid them in preparing news columns for the Alumnus magazine, stimulating Reunion Weekend at­tendance and many other facets which are part and parcel the responsibility of class secretaries. These men are elTectively maintaining contacts widi dieir classmates arid submitting infoi-mation dirough the magazine columns. • •. . . 
^Ve were fortunate in having Fathers Hesburgh and Cavanaugh outline Notre Dame's; new $66,660,000 program 'for the future,' and we enjoyed hearing Father Joyce.comment on the University's athlctiq. department. A brochure is being mailed from the campus to all alumni and also to non-alumni friends describing.the Uni­versity's plans for faculty development, research, student aid, administrative retirement arid physicalexpansion. These are projects which will require the material and moral support of everj' alumnus. VVe take great pride in our Alma Mater's achievements and in many instances they .-are made possible by die-assistance rendered from-alumni who appreciate the education diey received under the Golden Dome.' . '. 
I would like to remind all local club presidents that Universal Notre Dairie Night^.will be observed on April 14 and plans should be developed for an outstanding club program on diis auspicious occasion. 
Finally, I hope diat you will feel free to contact your Aluriini Board in any matter that concems'the bet­terment of the national alumni program. •" 
'-:':' Sincerely yours, ^ 
FRANCIS L. "MIKE" LAYDEN, President 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 








