The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
IN THIS ISSUE: 
• 97ih /ear 

•
 Rockne Memorial 

•
 Order Changes © University Affairs 

•
 Spotlight Alumni 9 Football Season 

•
 Student News 

•
 Club News 

•
 Class News 



AROUND THE LAKE 
Vol. 17 October, 1938 No. 

GREETS THE ALUMNI OF 
HOTEL 


M^^ALPIN 
from S2.S0 a day. siagl*- S4 and $4.S0 donUa. 
•ROADWAY AT 34tli n»MMX NBW YORK CRY 

Uii4«r KNOTT Muia(«K«nt JOHN I. WOELnX, JVaaovar 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, 75 
Editor 
WiLUAM R. DOOLEY, 7 6 
Managing Editor 
Vol. 17 

The masrazinc is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association of the Uni\'ersity of Notre Diune, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. 
OaOBER, 1938 
Member of the American Alumni Council 
Member of Naf!. Catholic Alumni Federation 
No. 

Faculty Additions Mark 97th Year 
The same freshmen climbing the front steps of the Main Building. The same cabs pouring out the same re­turning sophorqpres—to whom it's all "old stuff" now. The same juniors wondering whether their own trunks can possibly be among that mountain of express stuff back of the Main Building. The same seniors back for their last September, their last foot­ball season on the campus, their last "did you have a good summer?" The same Notre Dame. 
Amidst such familiar scenes and activities, with the joyous prospect of using th e Eockne Memorial building in the second semes­ter, the students be­gan the 97th scho­lastic year of the University on Sep­tember 15. The total enrollment was ap­proximately 3,100, with all campus res­idence facilities tak­en and some new students residing in South Bend tempor­arily. 
The new year was officially opened on Sunday, September 18, with solemn Mass. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, vice - president, was the celebrant, assist­ed by Rev. J. Leon­ard Carrico, C.S.C, director of studies, as deacon and Rev. Charles C Miltner, C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, as sub-deac­on. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C S. C, 
University Opens With Enrollment of 
3,100; Notable Figures Join Teach­
ing Staff, Including Three Alumni 
The new school year sees the fac­ulty increased by the addition of 12 laymen and six priest professors of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
(Members of the new C.S.C. group are listed in another story in this issue.) 

Scholars from Ireland, France and Germany are among the new faculty members. They include Desmond Fitz­gerald, Irish political philosopher and member of Eire's Dail (parliament), who comes again to Notre Dame to deliver a special course for advanced students in the Department of Politics. 
From France, Dr. Yves Simon, one of the world's foremost philosophers, has come to take up residence at Notre Dame. Renowned as an author­ity on social philosophy and ethics. Dr. Simon has been editor of the French Revue de Philosophe and pro­fessor in the Catholic Institute of Paris and the University of Lille. 
Dr. Ferdinand Aloys Karl Hermens has joined the faculty as associate professor of politics. For the last three years he has been on the facul­ty of Catholic university, Washington, 
D. C An authority on electoral sys­tems, Dr. Hermens was sent to Europe in 1937 by the Gug­genheim foundation to make a study of proportional repre­sentation in nation­al legislative bodies. In 1930 he received his doctorate from th e University of Bonn, Germany. He has studied also at the University of Berlin, the Univer­sity of Rome and at the School of Eco­nomics in London. 
Dr. Ernest J. Wil­hehn, B.S.Ch.E., '27; M.S.,'28;Ph.D.,'30, has joined the Col­lege of Engineering as assistant profes­sor of chemical en­gineering. He came to Notre Dame from the research division of the New Jersey Zinc company, Pal­merton, Pennsylva­nia, with which he has been associated smce 1930. 
William H. Ham-

assistant provincial, The Opening of the Schoolyear Sees the Same Mountains gave the sermon. of Trunks, the Same Streams of Cabs, ill, B.S., '30; M:S., 


eirrs 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
From EDWARD J. GERAGHTY, Jamestown, North Dakota HistMjr of North Dakota From MR. AND MRS. JOSEPH DONAHUE, South Bend ..^100.00 From MRS. AKNA M. SCHRICKER, Dorchester, Massachusetts Notre Dame Calendar of 1879 Anonymous for a needy student 100.00 From MR. CONSTANTINE E. MCGUKE, Washington, D. C 72 volumes for the University library From PROFESSOR PEDRO DELANDERO, '11 200 volumes for the University library 
For the Rockne Memorial 

Sollitt Consfniction  Company of South  Bend_  1333 5  Rev. D. R O'DonnelKHartfoitl,  Connecticut 10.00  
Elmployces on Rockne  Memorial  Building  1,13335  St. Michael's Church Corp., Hartford, Conn— 10.00  
Fleming and Sons, Inc., Dallas, Texas-E. M. Morris, '06, South Bend, Indiana (additional) Mechanical Trades Department of the University Bricklayers '& Masons Union No. 18 of Indiana  500.00 500.00 15U0 100.00  James H. Durbin. New Yorfc City 10.00 J. L. Cousidine, Sharon, Pennsylvania 10.00 Charles Sessions, Davenport. Iowa­10.00 Rev. B. H. Scholgen, Kenosha, Wisconsin 5.00 Rev. John A. Mich, Blue Earth, Minnesota— 5.00  
P . W . Stickney, Chicago,  Illmois  100.00  Lt. Colonel Francis P. Mulcahy. '14,  
Most Rev. James Cassidy, D.D., LL.D., "32,  St. Thomas, Virgin  Islands­5.00  
Fall  River,  Massachusetts  (additional)  29.40  James A. Bums, Columbus, Ohio 1.00  
Lucien B. Cbppinger, Houston, Texas  25.00  
James A. Connelly, New York  City_  25.00  Total new gifts ,_$  3,91330  
Rev. Joseph A . Baran, Sheppton, Pennsylvania  25.00  Previously acknowledged _  171,820.99  
Rt. Rev. D. E. Malone, Grand Rapids, Michigan  15.00  
Rev. Thomas E. Hayes, Hartford,  Connecticut  10.00  Grand Total to date, September 20.  1938_$175,73479  

For the Nieuwiand Memorial 

Professor Henry C. Staunlon-, 25.00 Previously acknowledged-38.15733 
Grand Total to date. September 20, 1938-$38,18233 
^.6^, 'aot^A, ^J.C. 
'31;. Oswego, New York, has joined the faculty as assistant pro­fessor of physical chemistry. For the last seven years Dr. Hamill has been on the faculty of Fordham university, New York City. He received his Ph.D. degree from Columbia univer­sity. New York City. 
Dr. Paul M. Pepper has joined the faculty as an instructor in mathe­matics. Prior to coming to Notre Dame Dr. Pepper was on the faculty of the University of Cincinnati, Cin­cinnati, Ohio. 
Two new instructors have been added to the staff of the College of Commerce, Raymond P. Kent, La­trobe, Peimsylvania, and Herbert P. 
Klingman, Chicago, who will be in­structors in finance. Mr. Kent re­ceived his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Pittsburgh, and had been teaching for the last six years at St. Vincent's College, La­trobe. He is a member of the Amer­ican Academy of Political & Social Science, the American Economic Asso­ciation and the Academy of Political Science. 
Mr. Klingman received his bach­elor's degree from the University of Wisconsin and the degree of master of business administration from the Harvard graduate school of business administration. For the last six years he had been research analyst for the • Atlantic & Pacific Tea company. 
The faculty of the College of Law has a new member in James J. Kear­ney, '31, who came to Notre Dame from Loyola University, Chicago, where he had been an instructor in law. Dr. Kearney received his doctor­ate in jurisprudence from Loyola in 1934 and his L.L.M. degree from Catholic university in 1935. In Chi­cago he was associated with the firm of O'Callaghan & Co., publishers of legal books, for which he wrote and edited law books. At Notre Dame in addition to teaching he will have supervision of The Lawyer, legal quarterly published by the law stu­dents. 

Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse Rises 
Construction Progresses; Roof Being Piaced; Im­
pressive Front Closes West End New Plaza; 

Hope to Complete Several Units in Spring 
Thumbnail sketch: March 31, 1931, Knute Rockne, '14, Notre Dame's di­rector of athletics, killed in airplane crash near Bazaar, Kansas . . . na­tion mourns . . . sporadic, leaderless memorial plans announced various sources . . . University asked to cen­tralize fitting memorial program . . . conferences with alumni and friends result in decision to erect at Notre Dame, a living memorial, something iitting, something Rock wanted, some­thing which, like his own life, would carry on the work of developing youth . . . the Eockne Memorial As­sociation, Inc., organized, announced by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, at 1931 Commencement alumni banquet . . . objective is-fieldhouse for development of all N. D. boys . . . circumstances, headed by eco­nomic depression of nation, dictate moratorium on campaign . . . results of first drive, $130,000 .. . 1937 finds economic conditions more favorable . . . friends of Rockne and Univer­sity itself anxious for Memorial to materialize . . . original fund now brought to ?150,000 by investments . . . University adds $200,000 . . . alumni, through Alumni Association, asked to subscribe remaining $200,­000 needed for completion of the Memorial . . . November 5, 1937, Byron Kanaley, '04, turns first shov­elful of dirt on site of fieldhouse . . . July 7, 1938, Rev. John F, O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, blesses cornerstone of Memorial, with Elmer Layden, '25, presiding, and the Rockne family, teammates, summer school students, and other dignitaries present . . . August 11, 1938, the topmost point of steel construction is reached . . . September 23, 1938, brick and stone work exterior, nears completion . . . eight plaques, of historical signifi­cance, are imbedded in the Field-house, representing La Salle and Pokagon, local historical figures; the shields of the United States and the University; the coats - of - arms of France, where the Congregation of Holy Cross originated, and Norway, where Rockne was bom; and two re­spected rivals in sport, the Military and Naval academy coats - of -arms .. . and as the presses roll the roof goes on, with hope of Spring occupa­tion of the pool, handball courts, etc. 
There, in too brief space, you have at least the outline of the tangible 

This is the Rockne Memorial Fieldhouse as it appeared under construction in late September 
progress of the Rockne Memorial. As you read this, the plans of the Alum­ni Association, working through the District Governors and the Local Clubs, go forward to insure the proper success of the share in the project which has been assigned to us,­
The pictur e accompanying this article tells a graphic story of the extent to which Notre Dame has gone to make this dream of Rock's, — and after his death the hope of his friends, — a reality. 
The page in which Father O'Hara acknowledges gifts shows the begin­nings of an essential and fitting re­sponse from these friends, so that the University can complete the great work so splendidly begun. 
Much remains to be done, even in this tangible field. The prompt and generous response of alumni can make this Memorial not only a vivid, vital, and proper perpetuation of the life and work of a great Notre Dame man, but a new tradition of love and loyalty in the large and lovely library of Notre Dame's distinctive traditions. 
If you could have heard, at the laying of the cornerstone, Harry Stuhldreher, '25, Ail-American quar­terback of the Four Horsemen, pay tribute not only to Rock but to Notre Dame; if you could have heard War­ren Brown, long a friend of Notre Dame, rekindle the humor that tem­pered Rock's terrific vitality; if you could have seen Mrs. Rockne and the growing children proud in their last­ing sorrow; if yon could have seen Joe Fliska, who played grand football with Rock as an undergraduate, over­coming the gravest physical handicaps to come to the cornerstone laying as his personal tribute to Rock; — you would realize that in this Memorial is embodied much more than the facilities Rock always wanted and hoped for, for the whole student body; you would know that here was more than a building ambition of the University; you would resolve that this project in which all of the his­tory, all of the glory, all of the tradi­tion, all of the love, all of the loyalty of Notre Dame men for Notre Dame, and for each other, would find you doing your full share. 

FOOTBALL TRIPS 

Alumni in the Middle West will have a special interest in the foot­ball trips announced by alumni in this issue of the ALUMNUS. The Ford Travel Service, Chicago, is arranging for special trip to the Army game from Chicago and another trip to the Southern California game. Associ­ated with the Ford organization are Edward J. Kelly, "23, Harold Cooke, '24, and Thomas E. "Ben" Oakes, '31. The Westward Ho organization in South Bend, in which William F. Sheehan, '25, is a leading figure, will also sponsor a tour to the Southern California game. 
• The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1958 
Gary, Indiana, and Gerald Faller, Fryburg, Pennsylvania. 

CAMPUS NOTES By VINCENT W. DeCOURSEy. "39 
MEMENTO LECHNER 
We hope that John Lechner likes this column. For three years past John turned out good copy for the ALUMNUS, but this term finds him out in the bustling world, tracking down law cases instead of Campus Notes. We wonder how John feels about the whole matter, what with school start­ing up again, freshmen saying and doing the wrong things, and he not here to watch, note, and take part? We don't think he likes it at all, espe­cially from the freshmen angle. .Tohn, just like every collegiate columnist, had a weakness for stories about the poor kids and just to make him a little more at home while he reads this, our initial effort, we print one for him. 
In the waning hours of the past school year, two juniors stored a chest of drawers for the summer in Fresh­man Hall. On the first day back they hurried over to the hall and discov­ered the contraption hiding in one of the rooms. Out in the hall it went and out looking for a cart went the two. Returning, with cart, they found themselves without chest. .\" frantic search of the rooms disclosed a fresh­man calmly stufiing socks into an upper drawer. He readily admitted annexing the prize, explaining that he had won it from the room across the hall by a coin flip. "Well any­way," he mrttered. as he v.-atched two astounded st'idents carting the chest from the room, "it was worth the try." 
STYLE TRENDS 
The good old days of sweat shirts and cords seem to be a thing of mem­ory at Notre Dame. The trend has been Esquirish for the past three years and this particular term it seems to have reached a climax. On an amazed tour of the campus it is possible, and not at all hard either, to see huge, yellow shoes with square, box-like toes and inch-deep soles; frosh Phy Ed shorts with names nat­tily embroidered in blue thereon; beret, black and very chic, just the thing for a fall lake party. 
CAMPUS POTPOURRI 
A stray poll to determined student preference for the student trip, con­ducted by S.A.C. President Daniel 
0. Donovan, New Hampton, Iowa, disclosed that the Army game with its trip to New York, was the over­whelming campus favorite. Robert Huether, Sharon, Pennsylvania, will take charge of the affair. 
Speculation as to the price, place, and orchestra for the oncoming Soph­omore Cotillion was given added im­petus by the announcement that the year's first social event will take place on October 14. 
The Scholastic is once more rolling weekly off the presses. Innovations feature a literary editor for an en­larged "culture centre"; his name is William P. Mahoney, and he comes from Phoenix, Arizona. It is worthy of note that he was last year's track captain and this year's president of the Wranglers, campus speech club. 
A summer edition of the Satita Maria carried an invitation to pro­spective freshmen Knights of Colum­bus to sample the joys of the new Rockne Memorial swimming pool. But either the Santa Maria staff or the construction crew got a few dates mixed, and at last report the lake water was a trifle chilly. The pool won't be finished until the mid-year. 
There are on the campus this year several Chinese students. One, .Toseph AVang En-Pao, is studying for his master's degree in English Litera­ture; he received his bachelor's de­gree from Catholic University. An­other has enrolled in the engineering college after spending a few summers and winters trying to keep the .Japan­ese army out of his front yard. • His name is Jackson Chung and before being sent to Notre Dame, spent over a year in the Chinese army. 
JITTERBUGS 
Campus jitterbugs wandered in a heaven of pure swing in Sepember's waning days what with both old maestro Benny Goodman and mad dri'mmer Gene Krupa in town. 
Freshmen were treated to their general assembly on September 19. Dan Donovan presided, and Rev. James D. Trahey, C.S.C, prefect of discipline, delivered the principal ad­dress of welcome. Elmer Layden and the cheerleaders did their best to whip up football spirit. A parade of captains: James McGoldrick, foot­ball. Earl M. Brorni, basketball, .To­seph Nardone, baseball, Greg Rice, track, was warmly greeted by the freshmen. 
These afternoons the air of the campus is vibrant with harmony as the 1938 edition of the Band exercises and the Glee Club rehearses. Band officers are busily plotting activities for the year. Kenneth E. Higby, Ripon, Wisconsin, is the president of the Band, and Red Trousdale, Mott, North Dakota, is the Glee Club head. They are assisted by Marty McGinnis, Memphis, Tennessee, William Hake, 
CARDS PLUS 
Library cards were issued this year for the first time. Also, there is a new system in the laundry, something to do with punches and numbered weeks. The card resembles a meal ticket. 
The Linnets are reorganizing this year under the direction of Orville Foster, new director. 
Mysterious notices feature the bul­letin boards: "Baritones, Wed." and "Tenors, Tuesday" is the favorite. 
PORTRAIT A new and strikingly real portrait of Knute Rockne, painted by Eugene Montgomery, Chicago, is on display in the University library. The pic­ture shows Rock in the foreground with St. Mary's lake, the church spire and the dome in the hack-ground. Rock himself was painted from a photogi-aph and the back­ground was put in from the artist's meraorJ^ . 
Montgomery became interested in Notre Dame and Rockne through Christy Flanagan, '28, his former schoolmate in Port Arthur, Texas. He later studied in the Art Institute, Chicago, and is now a leading portrait painter in that citj'. 
FROM SEUMAS McMANUS 
From The Rocky Road to Dublin, the autobiography —and a delightful one, too — of Seumas MacManus, LL.D., '17, we quote the following in­cident: (through the kindness and alertness of Brother Aidan) : 
"The Night of the Big Wind was January sixth, 1839, Ireland's most memorable night in the nineteenth century. It marked an epoch from which were counted minor events for a decade before and nearly a decade after. It still figures large in Irish minds, and is a familiar phrase in the mouths of even Irish-Americans who are the children's children of exiles who left Ireland soon after. Father John Cavanaugh of Notre Dame (May God rest that grand priest and great man, famed orator and prime wit!), once was asked by a group of fellow Irish-.\mericans what should be done with a certain bombastic and prolix would-be orator who was mak­ing himself a very menace at the meetings of the Irish Fellowship Club. "The man deserves to be signally hon­ored for his persistent industry," said Father Cavanaugh. — "Let us make him the (K) Night of the Big Wind." And the Knight of the Big Wind he was henceforward." 

October. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS « « 
PRACTICAL APPLICATION of the •*• important discoveries of the late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C, '99, in the production of synthetic rubber reached a new high this summer. 
A display of the variety of prod­ucts now^ being made by DuPont from this basic discovery was prepared for the private exhibition of the new 1939 Studebaker in South Bend. Materials made from the synthetic rubber base are used in the manufac­ture of the car itself, and a wide var­iety of the ultra-resistant material was also on display. Mr. Allen F. Clark spoke before some 150 news­paper men at the opening of the ex­hibition. Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, purchased the first of the new models off the line. 
Significant to Notre Dame is the preparation of a permanent display of the products now being made from synthetic rubber, which is being pre­pared by DuPont for the Chemistry building at Notre Dame. 
VrOTRE DAME found a staunch 
•'•' champion, and the perennial dis­turber Novelist Upton Sinclair a strong opponent, when on June 24, Rev. James Keane, O.S.M., Chicago, who has gained national fame through the perpetual novena to Our Lady of Sorrows, broadcast a scathing denun­ciation of Mr. Sinclair's novel, Our Lady. In the novel, which Father Keane characterizes as "the blasphe­mous thing," Mr. Sinclair makes use of a Notre Dame-Southern California game and a Notre Dame priest to point his attack. The reply of Father Keane was praised highly by Leo J. Hassenauer, '20, High Chancellor of the Catholic Lawyers Guild of Chi­cago. 
B
ROTHER AIDAN, C.S.C, '27, of Holy Cross College, New Orleans, generously assembled and wrote the following excellent article for the ALUMNUS: 
"Three members of the hierarchy have been identified with the Summer Session of the University as either students or teachers. They are: The Most Rev. Urban Vehr, Bishop of Denver; the Most Rev. Edwin O'Hara, Bishop of Great Falls, Montana; the Most Rev. Bartholomew Eustace, first Bishop of Camden, New Jersey. At that time, of course, they were all simple priests. 
"Bishop Vehr, formerly superin­tendent of schools in the Cincinnati archdiocese, was a student here in the summer of 1924. He took courses in education. 
"In the sessions of 1929 and 1930, Bishop O'Hara gave courses — excel­lent ones, too — in Rural Sociology. He was no stranger to the University, from which he holds an LL.D. degree, and where his two brothers — Frank, now deceased, and John — graduated. Frank taught Economics at Notre Dame. 
"The bishop, it may be added, was engaged teaching here when he re­ceived news of his appointment to the see of Great Falls. 
"As was to be expected from the father of the Catholic Vacation School Movement, and one who was thor­oughly conversant vdth rural prob­lems and their bearing on the Church, his lectures to graduate and post­gradutes were well worthwhile. He devoted special attention to the vast importance of the country parish in the future development of the Church in the United States. 
"Bishop Eustace taught logic and general metaphysics in the Summer Session of 1922. Notre Dame secured his services through the courtesy of his fellow professor, Rev. Michael J. Shea, '04. For some 20 years or more Bishop Eustace taught philosophy at St. Joseph's Seminary, Dnnwoodie, New York. 
"In the brief six weeks he lectured here, he became an outstanding pro­fessor and made a notable reputation. In fact, he was regarded as one of the best teachers of philosophy ever to set foot on any Notre Dame rostrum." 

T
HE FORTIETH ANNIVERSARY of the ordination of Most Rev. John F. Noll, LL.D., '15, bishop of Fort Wayne, was marked by the priests of his diocese at their Retreat on the campus in June. The bishop received a gold episcopal ring from the priests as a jubilee token. 
M
EMORIES OF P a t h e r William Corby, C.S.C, former president of the University, and his stirring part in the battle of Gettysburg were revived this summer when Father Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, '03, also a former president, visited the Gettys­burg battlefield. The occasion of the visit was the 75th anniversary of the battle and the attendant reunion of Civil War veterans. Father Walsh was accompanied by Joseph Farrell, '15, Camp Hill, Pennsylavnia, and Edward C. Smith, '01, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. 
•piFTY-FIVE MEN were enrolled 
" in the annual summer course in boy guidance conducted on the cam­pus in July by the Knights of Colum­bus. Professor Raymond A. Hoyer, 
M.A. '24, was again the director of the session. Among the speakers were John J. Contway, M.A. '26, ex­ecutive secretary of the Boy Life Bureau of the K. of C ; Judge Wal­ter Mclnerny, '06, South Bend; Benjamin Weinstein, '33, Sout h Bend; and Cyril A. Costello, M.A. '29; and Prank E. Cane, M.A. '36, of the Boy Life Bureau, who assisted Professor Hoyer in conducting the course. 

C
LARENCE E. "PAT" MANION, 
'22, professor of law, climaxed a 
successful Summer School with a 

scintillating Commencement address 
on the principles of American gov­
ernment. Five doctorates were 
awarded at the ceremonies, 17 mas­
ters' degrees and 39 bachelors' de­
grees. Approximately 450 nuns rep­
resenting 30 religious orders attended 
the summer session. The registration 

was the largest in several years, 
reaching the figure of 950. And the 

weather during the courses was the 
coolest in many years. For the first 
time in a quarter-century the ther­
mometer failed to get up to 90 de­
grees in July. On the hottest day it 
achieved 89 and on the coolest, 54. 
One of the remarkable features of this year's Summer School was a nuns' choral club comprised of 70 voices representing 11 religious orders. This group was heard in sev­eral concerts on the campus and pre­sented a national CBS broadcast from the campus through the facilities of WSBT-WPAM, the stations of the South Bend Tribune. The club was directed by Professor Daniel Pedtke, head of the Department of Music, with the aid of Orville Foster, his as­sistant. 
A 
RETREAT for the lay faculty 
of the University was conducted 

in the Alumni Hall Chapel from 
September 26 to October 1 by Father 
Charles Miltner, C.S.C, '11, dean of 
the College of Arts and Letters. The 
morning Mass and conference were at 
6:30 and the evening conference and Benediction at 7:30. 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI » » 
J
OSEPH A. LA FORTUNE, '16, Tulsa, bom and reared in South Bend virtually under the shadow of the golden dome, is now one of the outstanding personages in the oil empire of Oklahoma. 
Joe's first job after leaving Notre 
JOSEPH A. LA FOKTUNE 

Dame was with the Northern Indiana Gas and Electric Company, South Bend. He began his career in the oil business with the Standard Oil Com­pany, South Bend, but interrupted that to enter the naval aviation ser­vice in the World War period. He was stationed at Far Eockaway, Long Island, New York. 
Following the war Joe served as Eed Cross physical director, oversee­ing physical recreation for wounded soldiers, first in Battle Creek, Mich­igan, and then in Des Moines, Iowa. In the latter place he was attracted to Tulsa by the veterans' glowing stories of the Mid-Continent's rising oil prosperity.' The result was a train ride to Tulsa. 
A period there in an advertising agency, on the staff of the Tulsa World and on the staff of the Na­tional Petroleum News was followed by his position as assistant secretary of the Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association. In 1924 Joe became sec­retary of the Warren Petroleum Cor­poration and, in 1929, vice-president of the company. The latter position he still holds. 
In addition, the former South Bend­er is vice-president of the Natural Gasoline Corporation an d of the American Natural Gasoline Company. He is treasurer of the Du Mar Oil and Gas Company and of the Corpus Christi Corporation and is president of the Natural Gasoline Corporation of America. 
In Tulsa on the social side Joe is vice-president of the Downtown Quar­terback Club, a member of the South-em Hills Country Club and of the Tulsa Club. His hobbies are golf and football. He and his wife (who is the former Gertrude Leona Tremel of South Bend) are the parents of four children. 

TflRANK OBERKOETTER, '32, of -'• Peoria, Illinois, added new luster in August to his achievements as one of the top color photographers of the country when he made one of the principal talks and demonstrations before the annual convention of the Photographers' Association of Amer-
FRANK OBERKOETTER 

ica in Chicago. His subject was "Color Photography—^The Making of 
Color Separation negatives." 
Concerning Frank's appearance at the convention, Charles Abel, execu­tive manager of the Photographers' Association, writes: "He not only talked but did something far more difficult—^he demonstrated the making of still life and live model photogra­phy in direct color. This was done in one of the early sessions, and two days later he showed the resulting' prints and conducted a discussion period. Mr. Oberkoetter is not only one of the very capable direct color photographers in the country today, but he is, in addition, an extremely fine man to know and one who is a credit to Notre Dame." 
Frank first opened a studio for general photography in Bloomington, Illinois, his home town, and after a year of constant experimentation de­cided to specialize in color photogra­phy. In 1936 he won a gold medal for the best color print shown at the Photographers' Association conven­tion. He moved his studio to Peoria in 1937 and, besides doing illustrative and advertising photography there, maintains a laboratory there for the production of color prints for photog­raphers who are able to make the negatives but cannot as yet complete the process to obtain finished pictures. 
T EC F. CRAIG, '04, Sioux Falls, ^ South Dakota, has for 16 years been a supreme director of the Knights of Columbus and on that account a spotlight figure in national Catholic affairs, together with Ray Miller, '14, and Tim Galvin, '16, also members of the Board. In the K. of 
C. directorate Mr. Craig holds the highly important position of chair­man of the Committee on Audit. 
But Mr. Craig has in other direc­tions been a dominant personage in the advancement of Catholicity. Out­standing was his leadership in Cath­olic colonization in eastern Colorado where he was instrumental in estab-
LEO F . CRAIG 

lishing hundreds of Catholic families and instrumental, too, in having built the first Catholic church in that sec­
(Continucd on Fa^e 13} 

General Chapter Shifts C.S-C Alumni 
Rev. James W. Donahue, '07, Retires as General; Rev. James A. Burns, C. S. S., '88, Retires as Provin­cial; Latter Succeeded by Rev. Thomas Steiner, '99. 
A general chapter, when the world organization of Holy Cross assembles, through delegates, at Notre Dame, al­ways brings major changes involving many familiar alumni among the men whose destinies are entwined with Notre Dame. 
Outstanding among the changes the chapter made during its session the past summer, July 5 to July 26, was the canonical reassignment of the General and Provincial, two of the great leaders of the Congregation. In 1926 the youthful Rev. James W. Donahue, '07, became Superior Gen­eral of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Father Donahue came to Notre Dame in 1902. After his work on the campus, which included a bril­liant record in debate, he studied in Washington and Rome. In 1912 Father Donahue returned from Rome to become one of the charter mem­bers of the Mission Band of the Con­gregation, then founded under the direction of Father James French, '90. For eight years he was a mem­ber of that popular branch of the Order, leaving it to become succes­sively master of novices, superior of Moreau Seminary, and for a year act­ing procurator general in Rome, from whence he was recalled to the Chap­ter that made him General, Father Donahue will teach this year at the Seminary of Our Lady of Holy Cross, North Easton, Massachusetts. Father Donahue was succeeded as General by Rev. Albert Cousineau, C.S.C., of the Canadian province. 
Rev. James Bums, '88, is one of the most familiar figures in the cur­rent history of Notre Dame. A great athlete in his undergraduate days, he was also a great scholar then and throughout the years. Ordained in. '93 he returned to Notre Dame as a professor of science, but soon re­turned to Holy Cross College in Washington, which he served as pres­ident from 1900 until 1919. Then, for three years president of Notre Dame, he left that post to assume the burden of the one great Notre Dame endowment campaign, which was suc­cessfully consummated unde r his leadership. In 1927 Father Bums succeeded the late beloved Bishop George Finnigan as provincial of the Congregation. Father Bums is the author of several highly regarded ed­ucational texts, ^nd is a veteran of the National Catholic Educational As­sociation. He has assumed the duties of isai-^tapt superior general of the Congregation, and will remain at Notre Dame in that capacity. 
Father Bums' successor. Rev. Thomas Steiner, '99, has been assist­ant provincial under Father' Bums for the past year, and brings a trained mind to the important post. As dean of the College of Engineer­ing since 1928, when he succeeded the late Martin McCue, Fathe r Steiner has been vitally involved in the development of Notre Dame gen­erally, and in the development of his College as a part of it. As a result of his close contact with the building of the new Notre Dame he brings to the office of the provincial the same inside knowledge of the Congregation affairs as did his predecessor. A mon-
REV. JAMES A. BURNS, C.S.C. 

REV. THOMAS A. STEINEB, C.S.C. 
ogram man, also, in his undergradu­ate days. Father Steiner was gradu­ated in engineering, and from 1899 until 1911 he pursued his profession. Returning to Notre Dame he entered the priesthood and has been a contin­uous member of the faculty since his ordination in 1918. No'successor has been appointed dean of the College of Engineering, Professor Walte r Shilts, '22, serving as acting dean. 
Other changes, affecting man y 

C.S.C. alumni, are contained in the followin g official obediences an­nounced by Father Steiner, and by the University, following the election 01 the chapter: 
At the University the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, '16, was reappointed as vice-president and to serve as a mem­ber of the local council. Brother Al­binus was named University treas­urer, and Brother Ewald was named assistant treasurer. Brother Albinus replaces Brother Englebert, whom illness has confined to the infirmary for the past several months. 
Rev. John Reddington, '23, was named purchasing agent and super­visor of maintenance at the Univer­sity. Brother Constantine, former purchasing agent, becomes steward at the University of Portland, Port­land, Oregon. 
The Rev. Franis E. Gartland, '33, was named prefect of religion at the University succeeding Rev. John Cav­anaugh, '23, who was elected assist­ant provincial. 
Most significant to residents of South Send was the naming of Rev. William P. Lennartz, '08, a; pastor of St. Mary's Church, and Rev. Fran­cis Sullivan, '31, as assistant at St. Augustine's. Rev. Michael Oswald, '98, who has held the pastorate at St. Mary's, is transferred to the Home Mission Band at Notre Dame. 
Members of Father Steiner's pro­vincial council include Rev. Kemdt 
M. Healy, '15, who is also teaching at the University; Father Cavanaugh, who is serving as assistant superior at Notre Dame; Brother William, '23, who is supervisor of Brothers' schools; and Brother Chrysostom, who is in charge of the accounting office at Notre Dame. 
Kev. John Farley, '02, for many years rector of Sorin Hall, has been transferred to the Community Infir­mary. 
(Continued on next paee) 

The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1938 
The followini; priests were named members of the Mission Band: Rev. Michael Foran, *33. Rev. l^Iaurice E. Powers, *33, and Rev. Edward Hartnett, '38. 

FROM THE PRESIDENT . . . 
Priests assigned to the University this year Includes the following (names of those priests continuing at the University are not in­
cluded) : OFFICE OP THE POSTMASTER GENERAL 
Rev. James Gallagan, '06, Rev. James Fied­ler. M^ . '.12, who will also be assistant supe­rior at Holy Cross Seminary and a member of the local council. Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, *29. Rev. Charles A. Lee. 'SO, Rev. John JI. Dupuia. '31, Rev. Philip H. Schaerf, '31. and Rev. Cornelius Laskowski, '33. 
The following priests were assisned to the University of Portland, Portland. Oregon.: Rev. Iilaurice S. Rigley. *27. Rev. Charles Hamel. '28. Rev. Richard D. Murphy. '31, Rev. Joseph J. Corcoran. '30. Rev. Victor J. Bois-vert, '33, Rev. Michael Gavin, '32, Rev. Law­rence Broestl, '33, and Rev. Louis P. Barcelo. •34. 
The following priests were named chaplains: Rev. Patrick Dalton. '21. Rcitz Memorial, Ev­ansvillc, Ind.: Rev. Dennis A. O'Shea, '10. Cathedral High School. Indianapolis: Rev. Francis McBride. Catholic Medical Mission So­ciety, Washington. D.C.; Rev. Salvatore Fancl­
li. *14. St. Joseph of Holy Cross, Valatie, Now York-; and Rev. Joseph Brannigan. '23. SU Charles Boys* Home, Wauwatosa, Wis. 
The following priests were assigned to St, Edward's University, Austin, Texas: Rev. Wil­liam C. Havey, '20, and Rev. Thomas P. Jones, *31. 
The following Brothers were assigned to St. Edw^ard's University, Austin, Texas: Brother Francis De Sales, Brother Lambert, University steward, and Brother Sylverius, University treasurer. 
Assigned to Central Catholic High School, South Bend: Brother Finbarr. '22. and Brother Reginald, '38; and to Holy Trinity High School, Chicago, Brother TheophiJus, '24, and Brother Celsus, '34. 
To Cathedral High School. Indianapolis, Brother Bertin, Brother Gordian, '27, and Brother James, were assigned; and to Cen­tral Catholic High School. Fort Wayne, Brother Edgar. '38. 
Brother David -was named librarian and in­structor at the University of Portland, Port­land. Oregon. 
Assigned to Holy Cross College. New Or­lt>ans. La., were Brother Remigius. '36, Brother Timothy. Brother Albertus, Brother Malcolm, and Brother Innocent, '34. 
Brother Claudius was assigned to Reitz Sle­morial High School. Evansville, Indiana, and Brother Fidelis, to Monsignor Coyle High School. Taunton. Massachusetts. 
Brother Columba. '33. and Brother Edmund. *35, will teach at the,University; and Brother Ernest. '25. and Brother Quentin. '36, will teach at Vincentian Institute. Albany, New York. 
Hectors of residence halls and pre­fects at the University for the 1938­39 school year were announced by Rev. John F. 0*Hara, '11, president. Rev. Frederick Gassensmith, who ^vill replace Rev. John Farley, as head of Sorin hall; Rev. James Gailagan, Walsh; Rev. Thomas McAvoy, Lyons; Rev. John Dupuis, Freshman. Rev. John O'Connell, who was rector of Freshman Hall last year, -will be rec­tor of Cavanatigh Hall. 
Following is a complete list of rec­tors and their assistants: Serin: Rector: Fr. Gassensmith; Fr. William McNamara and Fr. Regis O'Neil. Walsh: Rector: Fr. Gallagan: Fr. Louis Emsdorff and Fr, Cornelius Hooyboer. Alumni: Rector: Fr. Henrj- Glueckert; Fr. James Stack and Fr. Robert Woodward. Dillon: Rector: Fr. John Ryan; Fr. Norbert 
C. Hoff. Fr. Benedict Dobrancin. O.S.B.. Fr. Edward Keller, Fr. James Fogarty and Mr. Thomas Madden. 
Howard: Rector: Fr. Peter Forrestal; Mr. Pedro de Landero, Fr. John Burke. Mr. John 
H. A. ^\Tiitman and Br. Columbia, C.F.X. 
Washington, D. C. 
At the outset, I extend my congrat­ulations to the Notre Dame clubs which have gotten under way in their work in connection with the Bockne Memorial. The success that they have attained in this splendid enterprise is a source of great satisfaction. I am convinced that every Notre Dame man, and that means every student who has ever attended Notre Dame, and every person who has ever been 
PRESIDENT O'CONNELL 

associated with it, will consider it a privilege to take part in assisting the University in the erection of the Eockne Memorial on the campus. 
The program that has been out­lined by the officers of the Alumni As­sociation and the University authori­ties is happily one that will permit every Notre Dame man and every friend of the University to have a share in the enterprise. 
The attractive thing about the pro­gram is that it does not require un­due sacrifice on anyone's part. The most important thing involved is your good vnll and your cooperation. We are counting on this and I know we will not be disappointed. 
Morrissey: Rector: Fr. Georjie Iloldcrith; Fr. James McDonald. Fr. Francis Butler and Mr. Francis J. O'Mallcy. 
Lyons: Rector: Fr. Thomas McAvoy: Fr. Alfred Send, Fr. Valentine Schroeger, and Brother Edmund. C.F.X. 
Badin: Rector: Fr. Joseph Muckenthaler: and Fr. Bernard McAvoy. 
St. Edward's: Rector: Fr. Leo Gonnan;-Fr. Thomas Brcnnan. Fr. Stanislaus Lisewski and 3Ir. Bernard Dabbin. 
In a sense, this is the first real test of our Alumni Association as a con­structive factor in the development of Notre Dame,—an opportunity to prove whether we, as alumni, have progressed as far and as well as our Alma Mater. 
The University, by agreeing to the utilization of our organization, its 22 District Governors, the 90 Local Clubs, and our Alumni Office and ex­ecutive personnel on the campus, has made an act of faith in us. 
Since 1922, when the Alumni Asso­ciation as it has now matured was more an effect of the Notre Dame en­dowment campaign than a cause of that one public appeal of Notre Dame, we have been permitted to develop our organization without the burden of University appeals. On the con­trary, during the several years of the recent economic adversities, the Uni­versity advanced funds to us so that our program might not collapse. 
Even in this appeal, the University has taken from funds that might speed its advance in other fields, to contribute so substantially to the Me­morial that we are left only the lesser part of the burden. 
So it seems to me, now, as the pres­ident whom you have entrusted to guide the Association through this this year when the Memorial is our major problem, that the successful completion of our part of this project is not only a fitting tribute of his fel­low alumni to the memory of our be­loved Knute Rockne, but a manifesta­tion of our own fitness as an organi­zation; a matter not only of loyalty to Notre Dame, but of proper pride. 
The response of the Governors and 
the Clubs in the preliminary work has 
been most heartening. Ultimate suc­
cess depends on you, the individual 
alumnus. I confidently anticipate a . successful stewardship. 
Sincerely yours, (Sig.) AMBROSE A. O'CONNELL, '07 
2nd Assistant Postmaster General 
President of the Alumni Association 

Freshman: Rector: Fr; John Dupuis; and Fr. Philip H. Schaerf. 
Cavanaugh: Rector. Fr. John O'Connell: Fr. Henry Bolffer, Fr. Francis J. Boland and Mr. Robert Anthony. 
Zahm: Rector: Fr. John Molter: Fr. Frank Cavanaush. Fr. Joseph N. Gar\-in and Fr. Lawrence Gollner. 
Brownson: Rector: Br. Patrick; Br. Ladis­laus, Br. Pius. Br. Donald and Br. Casper. Carroll: Rector: Br. Maurilius; Br. Colum­banus and Br. Bartholomew. 


Concerning a Sound Investment Policy 
There was a time when the busi­ness of investing one's money or the money of somebody else was a much simpler procedure than it appears to be today. As a result of the develop­ments and changes of the past ten years this is no longer the case. It is no longer simple—it is quite in­volved. Whether the unwarranted optimism and buoyancy which pre­ceded for several years the 1929­1930 market collapse caused the present condition of uncertainty or whether the economic, social and po­litical changes which we have wit­nessed during this period of time may be charged with having brought about the condition which now con­fronts the investor — well, there has been a decided change. 
At times the change seems to be so marked as to have eliminated to some extent the fine distinction which we have come to believe as existing be­tween investment and speculation. In other words, it might seem as though the speculator who sought preserva­tion (if not increase) of capital, having decided that market values had fallen too low and backing his judgment by the purchase of bonds at low market levels, may have fared better than the investor who adhered to his original principles, if not his original investments. 
A sound investment policy pre­supposes, above everything else, the preservation or safety of the funds invested. The return on the invest­ment is secondary in importance. The return must not be expected to yield an amount inconsistent with the safe­ty of the principal. Whereas, the in­vestor's main concern is to preserve his capital, the speculator hopes, not only to preserve his capital, but to increase it by a fortunate turn in the market, whether real estate, commod­ities, bonds or stocks. 
Within the past decade we have witnessed losses to investors running into millions, yes, billions of dollars. Any number of defaults have oc­curred in the real estate mortgage field. Owners of railroad bonds who have not experienced actual default are holding in many instances bonds whose market value is • sharply re­duced. The bonds and notes of oper­ating public utility companies have 
By John E. Dwyer, Chicago 

Special Lecturer in College of Commerce Outlines Fundamental Considera­tions; Emphasizes Safety of Principal 
given a good account of themselves. However, we must now consider what the effect of government-owned or state-owned or city-owned power and distributing plants will be on the investment securities of privately-owned concerns operating in the fields of likely competition. 
This development has already made its influence felt in certain sections of the countr}' %vhere this new type of competition has appeared. In the case of public utility holding com­panies who have found themselves falling athwart the provisions of the new Holding Company Act, several sizeable defaults have already oc­curred. We are reminded, however, that investors as a general rule only infrequently venture into the securi­ties of holding companies. In any case, the investor who is considering the bonds or stocks of public service companies would do well to give some thought to this new phase, which may actually or potentially threaten the ultimate safety of his funds. 
Turning to the field of industrial investments; while there have been a number of costly casualties, it would seem that generally they have been confined to new and untried indus­tries. Preferred stock dividends have 
JOHN E . DWYER 

been passed entirely or omitted, for varying periods of time, but in many instances these arrearages have been partially or entirely made up. In this field now, as always, the investor must consider the extent to which the industry is well established, the avail­ability of raw materials which it re­quires, the question of operating costs and most of all, perhaps, the essential of competent and wise management. 
Many investors were attracted to the list of foreign private loans by unusually high interest rates. While some of these loans have remained in good standing, it has been a disas­trous field. It is necessary only to point to a list of current market mar­ket quotations to secure an adequate picture of the heavy toll which has been exacted of American investors. The losses, in both interest and prin­cipal, have been tremendous. 
In the municipal and United States Government bond list, it would seem the greatest degree of safety has been made available to investors. State, county and municipal bonds for many years have been favored by most in­stitutions and many individuals. Not only has this appeal grown from the fact that these bonds are exempt of the Federal income tax, but they have presented a safe harbor for the indi­vidual who, regardless of the tax-exempt feature, has sought the ut­most in security for his funds. True, there have been defaults, not alone in the obligations of comparatively ob­scure districts, but in the bonds as well of large cities and counties. As a result of the increase in tax collec­tions and as a result of the sharp competition which has existed for the past several years among the munici­pal bond underwriting houses and again due to' their having taken ad­
vantage of the prevailing low money rates, most of the large city and county defaults have been cured and the credit of many of the obscure dis­tricts has been restored to former good standing. 
While Federal income tax exemp­tion and the ultimate, perhaps, in security or safety, are the main con­siderations in the field of municipal bonds, we do find ourselves occasion­ally up against the question of money rates. . Many municipal bonds are be­
The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1938 
ing sold today on a two or three per cent interest basis. What will they command three years hence? We may find ourselves in a four per cent money market and while the intrinsic security of our two or three per cent bonds may not be disturbed, we may experience in a higher interest rate market, a decided selling-off of the two, two and one-half and even three per cent bonds. It is well to re­member that when we purchase a bond, we expect to receive each year the prescribed rate of interest and to be repaid at maturity the amount borrowed or par. There is nothing in the contract which pro­tects us against market fluctuations. 
The man with money to invest must decide at the outset what he expects his surplus to accomplish. At the same time it might be well for him to take stock of himself. He may be an indiivdual who because of his ex­pert knowledge is in position to fol­low every development having a di­rect bearing on the constant safety of his funds. With this knowledge, he will know when to buy and sell. If he lacks this knowledge, then he must admit that he needs the counsel of some one else who can direct him. 
The ideal conception of investing one's surplus is that the invested cap­ital shall forever remain safe and that the income it yields will provide extra safety for the proverbial rainy day. For many individuals it hasn't worked exactly that way during the past ten years. Not much good ivill be gained now by worrying over the mistakes of judgment of the past. Our problem is to attempt to decide what to do from here in. Whether we use our surplus to invest or spec­ulate is our problem. Let us under­stand, at all times, however, what we are doing. Let us admit that there may be many features about the in­tricate business of investing money that we know nothing about. For in­stance, there is the important ques­tion of diversification, as to type of industry, maturity and even location. Should we confine ourselves to bonds or stocks listed on the New York Stock Exchange or some other repu­table Exchange? What about money rates ? Is it a good idea to buy a long term bond in a three per cent interest market or had we better, like many of the banks, buy a short-term invest­ment and protect ourselves against a possible change in money rates? 
There is more to this business of safely investing our money than ap­pears on the surface. There may be times when we would be better off to leave our money in the bank. The principal objective is to preserve our capital. If we always display the same zeal in selling what we have bought as we did when we bought, we may cut down our losses. Let us not be stubborn or have too much pride in our original opinion. In all 
Retreats Draw Record Crowds 
Closed Retreat Is Innovation This Year 
The 21st annual laymen's retreat, held on the Notre Dame campus this year August 4 to 7, attracted the largest crowd, 1,200 men, that has at­tended this Mid-West institution in its 20 years of existence. 
Beginning Thursday night, August 4, retreatants filled Dillon, Alunuii, Howard, Morrissey, Lyons, Badin and Walsh residence halls, and jammed one wing of the great University Dining Halls. The retreat, abl y preached by the Eev. Thomas Rich­ards, C.S.C, '22, closed with the now famous Sunday morning Communion Breakfast, August 7. 
A new feature introduced this year as a development from 20 year's ex­perience, was a closed retreat, held in Morrissey Hall immediately after the regular retreat, openin g Sunday night, August 7 and closing Tuesday night, August 9. Silence and the other features of the closed retreat marked this latter innovation, which was attended by 80 men, a large be­ginning group. 
Among alumni attending the regu­lar retreat were: 
Dr. James M. Dinnen, '67, Fort Wayne, Indiana; John L. Heineman, '88, Connersville, Indiana; James F. Kennedy, '94, Chicago; Byron V. Ka­naley, '04, Chicago; John B. Kreut­zer, '10, Peru, Indiana; Ed Figel, '11, Chicago, who was making his 4th re­treat; Howard Eyan, '15, Detroit; Timothy P. Galvin, '16, Hammond, Indiana, who made one of the finest addresses in retreat history at the closing breakfast; Louis Fritch, '19, South Bend. 
Dr. Thomas Keefe, '22, Logansport, Indiana; Emmett Burke, '22, Chica­go; James Fitzgerald, '23, Hammond, Indiana; Harold Weber, '22, South Bend; William Voor, '25, Elmer Lay-den, '25, and J. E. Armstrong, '25, all of South Bend; J. Arthur Haley, '26, South Bend; Bernard J. Schmidt, '26, South Bend; Lawrence McKnight, '26, Grand Eapids, Michigan; Francis Mc-Currie, '27, president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago; Eobert Doran, '27; Grand Eapids, Michigan; J. C. Kirwin, '27, Grand Eapids, Michigan; Henry Hasley, '28, a veteran retreat-ant from Fort Wayne; John J. Wal­lace, '28, lieutenant-governor of Dis­trict I, Calumet City, Illinois. 
events let us recognize the limitations of our exact knowledge in a field that usually is strange and requires very considerable knowledge. 
Walter Gildea, '29, Fort Wajme; John H.. Cushman, '29, Kittanning, Pennsylvania; Stanley Byington, '29, Kalamazoo, Michigan; Francis Fink, '30, Huntington, Indiana; Eaymond Young, '30, Hammond, Indiana; Charles W. Heineman, '30, Conners­ville, Indiana; Francis McGreal, '31, Chicago; Frank "Spike" Adams, '31, Chicago; Harry Merdzinski, '31, Mus­kegon, Michigan; Harold Tuberty, '31, Logansport, Indiana; John Ber­gan, '31, South Bend; Joseph Blaney, '32, Grand Eapids; James J. Flani­gan, '32, Chicago; E. J. Gillen, '34, South Bend; John DesNoyers, '36, Jackson, Michigan; Bernard Donnelly, '37, Holland, Michigan; Frank J. De­laney, Jr., '38, Burlington, Iowa; and Francis S. Driscoll, '40, Logansport, Indiana. 
From the above, it is evident that more and more alumni are learning the spiritual benefits, and the accom­panying assets of rest and relaxation, which attend this retreat in the famil­iar campus environment. The ser­vices in Sacred Heart Church, at the Grotto, the rooms in the halls, the fine meals in the Dining Halls, all have a general appeal, but to the alumnus a very particular one. 
Equally significant in many ways was the alumni attendance at the closed retreat, which was preached by Eev. Joseph E. Hart, C.S.C, '24. It included: John M. Thiele, '98, Whit­ing, Indiana; Lester Rempe, '11, Oak Park, Illinois; Hugh J. Daly, '12, Chi­cago; Paul J. Kennedy, '24, Temple­ton, Indiana; Eobert N. Alt, '29, Grand Rapids; Arthur Voglewede, '30, Decatur, Indiana; Wilfrid de St. Aubm, '32, Washington, D. C; Nor­bert Schaller, '32, Hammond, Indiana; George Lynch, '36, Benton Harbor, Michigan; and Earl E. Spielmacher, ;38, Fort Wayne. 
If you live in the Middle West and are interested in making the retreat in 1939, write Eev. Patrick Dolan, C.S.C, '15, superior of the Mission Band, Notre Dame, for the advance details. 
LEGAL AID CLUB 

Preliminary discussions were held recently by a committee of the Notre Dame Law club to organize the first legal aid society at the University. The committee was selected by Stew­art Eoche, president, at the first meet­ing of the year. The committee hopes to form a society of student lawyers for the purpose of aiding indigents who seek legal counsel. 
October, 1938 

7937 Legal Directory 
(Additions and Changes) 
ILLINOIS 
Chicago ABRAMS. Alfred R., C.E., "21 1018 S. Wabash Ave LEWIS. James j. , A.B., "32 10 South LaSalle St. MARTIN. Arthur R.. A.B., "36. 
LL.B.. '37 England. O'Toole & Kays Suite 1446 Otis Bldg. 10 South LaSalle St. 
Peoria 
CASSIDY. John E.. LL.B.. "17 1128 Jefferson Bldg. INDIANA Michigan Cifp PARENT. Walter E.. LL.B.. "30 Lake Theatre Bldg. 
Muncie 
PlERONl. Chades M.. LL.B.. 36 302/2 S. Walnut St. NEW JERSEY 
Lamhcrtville 
FAHERTY. Philip J.. Jr.. A.B.. "33 Edgar W. Hunt Law OiEce NEW YORK Nca Yoric Glji MCLAUGHLIN. Leo v.. A.B. 32 70 Pine St. OHIO 
Da^lon 
STRUCK. William L., B.C3.. 36. LL.B.. "37 708 Winters Bank Bldg. 
CARVILLE FOR GOVERNOR 
Received recently by the Alumni Office was some of the campaign liter­ature of Edward P. Carville, '09, who is Democratic candidate for governor of Nevada in the November elections. Judge Carville has for many years been one of the leading citizens of the state, serving as district attorney, district judge and United States dis­trict attorney. 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI 
(Continued from Page 8) 
tion. He was, last year, governor of district 17 of the Alumni Association. 
For several years after leaving Notre Dame Mr. Craig worked in engineering - executive capacities for the Casparis Construction Company and Casparis Stone Company, both of Columbus, Ohio. Later he was asso­ciated with both banking and mining. At present he is most active as a di­rector of the Silvercote Products, Inc., manufacturers of reflective insula­tion, with headquarters in New York City but vdth sales offices all over the United States and Canada. Mr. Craig devotes most of his time to the sales and distribution aspects of this busi­ness. He is, in addition, a director in other organizations. 
Mr. Craig and his wife are the happy parents of two daughters, Catherine and Mary Beth, who were students at Clarke College, Dubuque, Iowa. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 




Old Tradition Is Shattered 
Books By Notre Dame Teachers Are Numerous 
Most traditions are cherished by a University. But the ALUMNUS takes pride in sharing the shattering of one of Notre Dame's oldest. For many years, the burdens • of teaching did handicap the faculty of the Univer­sity in the production of books and learned articles. Notre Dame and her teachers held fast to the quaint prin­ciple that the interest of the student in the classroom was the primary con­cern of the professor. And so Notre Dame men, in a conflict of loyalty and admiration for their teachers and re­gret that they seemed to have no cre­ative library comparable to that of contemporary institutions, looked on the Notre Dame faculty as a group of "mute, inglorious Miltons." 
Inventory of the Notre Dame book­store, as the school year opens, does the tradition-shattering. At least in the professional fields, Notre Dame now gives voice to the scholarship of its teachers. And with the launching of the new Review of Politics, a peri­odical of self-explanatory title, this voice promises to grow stronger and more widespread. 
Philosophy heads the list with eight works devoted to its study. Cosmol­ogy, a Cross Section was written by Daniel C. O'Grady, Ph.D., associate professor of philosophy. Eev. Charles 
C. Miltner, C.S.C, Ph.D., '11, dean of the College of Arts and Letters and professor of philosophy, has contrib­uted The Elements of Ethics to. Notre Dame's own growing library of philosophic works. 
Rev. Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C, Ph.D., '23, head of the undergraduate Department of Philosophy, is the au­thor of a work entitled Synthesis of Questions in Philosophy. Logic, De­ductive aiid Inductive is a book by Rev. Thomas Crumley, C.S.C, '96, who was professor of logic at the University until 1934. 
The other philosophy books are Values and Reality, by Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, '23, associate professor of philosophy; General Psychology, by Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C, '20, associate professor of philosophy; and 
Scholasticism, the Philosophy of Com­viense Sense, by Rev. John A. Staun­ton, who no longer teaches at the Uni­versity 
A new book on psychology by Eev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C, '18, pro­fessor of sociology, and Francis T. Flynn, M.A. '31, assistant professor of social work, is to be published Oct. 1. 
In the field of education Rev. Wil­liam Cunningham, C.S.C, has writ­ten a book entitled Pivotal Prob­lems. Table for Business Mathe­matics, by James D. Watson, M.B.A., associate professor of finance, is Notre Dame's contribution to mathe­matical works. 
Other books written by Notre Dame professors follow: 
Good Writing by Rev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C, '20, associate professor of English; Reading for Writing, writ­ten jointly by Professor John T. Fred­ericks, and Father Ward; A Manual of American Government by Paul C Bartholomew, '27, associate professor of politics. 
Francis Thompson, written by Shane Leslie when he was at Notre Dame in 1935; The Morals of Netos­paper Making by Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C.S.C, '11, professor of adver­tising; Notes on Psychiatry by Leo 
F. Kuntz, associate professor of edu­cation ; Experiments in General Chemistry by Henry D. Hinton, Ph.D. '30, associate professor of chemistry; Laboratory Work in Metallurgy and a book on chemical analysis by Ed­ward G. Mahin, professor of metal­lurgy; and Evolution of Today by Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, '11, dealt of the College of Science. 
Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C, professor of sociology, has written Introductory Sociology, along with a study guide for it. Notes on the Fam­ily, by Rev. Francis P. Cavdnaugh, C.S.C, '23, associate professor of so­ciology, and Selections from the Latin Fathers, by Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C., '10, professor of Latin. 
Many of these textbooks are widely used by other universities. 
Eugene Healy, '34, has written a detective novel, Craine's First Case, published by Henry Holt & Co., for whom Gene has worked as a traveler since 1936. 
Charles E. "Gus" Dorais, '14, is the author of a three-part story, "Rock and I," which will appear in Street & Smith's Sport Story Magazine, begin­ning with the December 1 issue, on sale November 4. Maurice T. An­drews, '17, is associate editor of the magazine. 
Ehner F. Layden, '25, and D. C "Chet" Grant, '21, are co-authors of a story, "No Quarter for Quarter­backs," in the November 26 issue of the Saturday Evening Post. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus October, 1938 

BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
« Director of Athletic Publicity 





ATHLETICS 
Well, as Captain Bob Bartlett—or was it Colonel Stoopnagle? — once said, here we are again. This is the first installment on Elmer Layden's fifth season^and Notre Dame's 51st, and we hope to bring it to you in nine delicious flavors — Kansas, Georgia Tech, Army, Navy, Jlinnesota, North­western, and Southern California. 
Prospects are no better and no worse than when we took your leave with the June issue. The schedule is the same, the same men have been graduated, and the same men are re­turning. The only change we have been able to note since the last issue of 1937-38 is a psychological one. 
In June, Elmer Layden was very pessimistic about his team's chances. And now he isn't. He isn't optimis­tic, either, but as he explains it, "Just balanced, waiting and watch­ing, and hoping for the best." Two days before practice opened, he went fishing. "No use worrying," he said, "over graduation losses. I can't get those fellows back anyhow," 
He expects inexperience to be Notre Dame's biggest stumbling block in 1938. He says the Irish are bound to make mistakes, especially in early games, and he hopes that they won't prove too costly. Should Notre Dame slip past its first two or three games without a defeat, it will be a mighty hard team to beat. Should mistakes of inexperience cost the Irish a de­feat or two right at the start, Layden looks for his sophomores to tighten up more than normally with a result­ing job of reconstruction. 
Meanwhile, with the head coach viewing things blandly, your corre­spondent is passing through an emo­tional crisis. We were quite pleased, in our capacity as sports propagan­dist, to find what we thought was a favorable national press falling for our stuff this fall. We mailed re­lease affer release on the severe graduation losses — "only two regu­lars back, only 10 lettermen, only 12 men off the first three teams of 1937" —and for once, it seemed, the news­papermen believed it. They have been picking the Fighting Irish to lose practically all of their games this fall. A goal we had been striving for for years had been achieved at last. 
Then we saw the third team tie the No. 1 team, six-all, in a scrim­mage, with the varsity in the unac­customed position of coming from behind. A few days later we saw a freshman team that had been to­gether only seven days—^hardly long enough for the boys in the backfield the graduation losses have been so to get acquainted with those up front heavy that we can't expect a winner —^we saw this yearling group hold this fall. the varsitj- scoreless for 15 minutes. 
Layden undoubtedly is bringing his 

The second frosh team held the No. 
team along slowly and thoroughly, as 
2 team scoreless for another 12 min­
is his custom. The varsities are not 
utes. After considerable beating of 
steamed up. And maybe what we're 
the fist on the turf, exhorting and 
witnessing is only a normal early fall 
struggling, the varsities managed to 
manifestation, exaggerated to some 
shove over three touchdowns to take 
degree by unseasonably hot weather. 
a 20 to 0 \ictory. 
At any rate, our varsity at this 

The appalling thought struck us— writing is sluggish, its blocking is list­
to get to the point—that maybe the less, its charging all takes place be-
newspaper experts are right. Maybe (Continued on next page) 
1938 NOTRE DAME VARSITY FOOTBALL ROSTER 
•Indicates Monograms won. 
POS. KOMC TOWy PKET. SCflOOI. ACE »'CT. HT. EXP. 
Adamonis. Stanley Charles C. Ambridge, Penna. —St- Veronica H. S. 21 195 6:1 Albert, Francis Joseph L.G. COT-ington, Va. Covington H. S. 22 210 5:10 Ames. Richard Francis R.G. Mt. Vernon, 111. Mt. Vernon H. S 23 180 5:10 Andriacchi, Salvatore Dom. F.B. Ishpeming, Mich. _Ishpeming H. S 20 193 5:10 .\postal, Emanuel Noley . R.E. Erie, Penna. Fairport H. S. 23 205 5:11 Archer, Clyde William Q.B. Parkersburs, W. Va. Parkersburg H. S. . 180 5--10i5 Bjiirley, Koy James R.T. Monroe, Mich. • Monroe H. S. 193 5:11 Barber, J^ohert Anthony R.E. Erie, Penna. .East H. S. 178 6:1 Barr, Joseph James ^Xi.E. Wood River, 111. . .Marquette, Alton, Ill_19 165 5:11% Barrett, James Edward L.G. Syracuse, N. Y. _> .North H. S 22 185 6:0 Barron, Lloyd Joseph R.H. Detroit, Mich, .U, of Detroit H. S 21 169 5:9 Bechtold, Joseph Hubert T? T Sioux Falls, So. D_ .Washington H. S. 19 207 6:2 Beinor,** Joseph Edward L.T. Harvey, IlL .Thornton Twp. H.S 21 207 6:2 Beres, Emery Andrew R.G, South Bend, Ind. _James W. Riley H.S._20 170 5:11^5 Berta, William R.E. South Bend, Ind. —James W. Riley H.S_20 190 6:2 Biagi, Frank Walter L.E. St. Paul. Minn. Mechanic Arts H.S 20 180 6:0 Binkowski, Benedict Francis F.B. Chicago, III. St. Bede, Peru. 111. _2 l 187 6:1 Blake, Robert William R.E, Canton, Ohio St. John's H. S. 20 175 6:1 Bond, Nathaniel C. Franklin, Ohio Franklin IL S. 20 173 5:11 Borer, Harold Wilbur --R.H, LitUe Neck, L. L _ Blair Prep, N, J. 20 187 5:10 Bossu. August Francis . _R.G. Monongahela, Fenna. Monongahela H. S, 23 188 5:10 Bronnan, Thomas Joseph , -R.E. Chicago, m, Leo H. S. 20 187 6:2 Brew. Francis Joseph _L.T. Superior. Wis. Duluth Cathedral 20 205 6:1 Broscoe. Edward Michael R.E. Youngstown, Ohio Dickinson Seminary™23 185 5:11 BroK-n,» Earl Melvin, Jr. L.E. Benton Harbor, Mich. Benton Harbor H.S 23 178 6:0 Buckley, Clifford George Q.B, Valley Stream, L. I. Chaminade, Mincola -19 151 5:9 Bumell, Herman Joseph R.H. Dululh, Minn. Duluth Cathedra) 23 180 S:ll Bums, James Allan . L.T. F t Lauderdale, Fla. SL Leo, Fla.. Prep 20 198 6:2 Byrnes, Matthew Robert RJI. Hamilton, Ont, Can, Cathedral H. S. 20 170 5:11 Cacchioli, Louis Gregorj- F.B. Newark, N. J. West Side H. S. 21 183 5:10 Cassidy, Ernest Charles L.H. Kankakee, 111. Kankakee H. S. 20 162 5:11 Cassidy, Thaddeus Donald __R.H. Altoona, Penna. —Altoona H. S. 19 170 5:9 Collins, Henry D'Alton Q.B. Fairmont, W. Va St. Peter's H. S. 172 5:10^ Corgan. Michael Henry -R.H. Alma, Mich. Alma H. S. 185 5:10 Crimmins, Charles Vincent R.H. Harrisville, N. Y_ -Watertown.N.Y., H.S. 19 168 5:11 Cripe, Charles Wesley R.T. Buchanan. Mich, _ .Buchanan H. S. 20 184 6:0 Cronin. Walter Joseph ~_ L.G. Detroit, Mich. .TJ. of Detroit H.S. __20 175 5:10 Crowe, Emmett Hostc Q.B. Lafayette, Ind. — .Jefferson H. S. 21 170 5:8 Curran. James Earl 1,.E. Dorchester, Mass. _ -English H.S. Boston 22 185 6:1 Dahar, Philip George _F,B. Dillonvale, Penna. _ -Dillonvale H.S. 21 195 5:11 Daly, James Paul -R.G. Philadelphia, Miss_ -Holy Cross. N.Orleans 21 173 
S:8« 

DeFranco, Joseph Francis -L.G. Weirton. W. Va. __ -Wcirton H- S. 22 175 5:7 DeLay, Eugene Emmett C. Norfolk, Ncbr. -Norfolk Senior H.S 21 190 6:1 Devereau-T, Lau-rence Arthur —R G. Chicago, HI. _ .St. Patrick Acodemy_-19 165 5:11 Doody, Frank Arthur R.H. Oak Park, HI- Fcnwick H- S. 18 180 5:1016 Dozier, Clark Manning . R.G. Montgomery, Ala. —-Miami (Fla.) Acad 21 175 5:11 Drexler, William Paul R.H. Rochester, Minn- „_ Rochester H- S- 21 180 5:10 Dubbs, Joseph Allan L.T. Mendota, HI. Mendota H. S- 20 190 5:11 Essick, James Howard _R.G. Fairview, Penna- —Fairview H- S- 21 195 5:10 Favera, Dominic Massimo C, Leechburg, Penna- —Valley Forge (Phila-) 21 180 5:10 Fenlon, Edward Earl _Q.B. Washington, D- C. Fredericksburg Acad- 21 172 5:9 Ferguson, Homer Waters R.G. Winslow, Aril, Winslow H, S, 20 182 5:6 Ferry, James John Sweeney__Q.B. BrazH, Ind. Brazil H. S, -^ 19 160 5:7 
VARSITY FOOTBALL ROSTER (Continued) 
NAME POS. HOME TOWN PREr. sciioot AGE WCT. HT. 
Finneran, Jack Clement C. Columbus. Ohio .. -Rosary H. S. 20 190 6:1 Foley, Roger Casement C. Winthrop. Mass. _ Winthrop H. S. 19 163 5:9 Frericks, Alfred Jcrald :R.H . Marion. Ohio „Aquinas. Columbus 19 165 5:8^ Frericks, Theodore Paul _R.H. Marion. Ohio — _St Mary's H. S. 21 140 5:354 Fricke, Carl Henry. Jr. -_L.G. Pasadena. Calif. _. . Pasadena H. S. 21 170 S.-1I« Frost, Robert Joseph _R.T. Hicksville. L. L _ _Mt. Assumption Inst. 20 193 5:11 Gainer. Charles Delbert -_L.H. "IVhiting. Ind. -"Whitins H. S. 20 178 5--11K Gallasher. Thomas Charles —_L.T. Chicago. III. .Leo H. S 21 204 6:1 Gilliland. Donald Robert _L.T. JeiFerson City. Mo.. -Senior H. S. -20 215 5:10 Gottsacker. Harold Alfred _F.B. Sheboygan. Wis. _ . Sheboygan H. S. -21 195 6:1 Gubanich. John AIo>-sius _R.G. PhoenLTville. Pa, „ -Phocnixvillc H. S. __19 no 5:10 Hannigan. James John _.Q.B. Philadelphia. Pa. _ -Catholic H. S. 20 
160 3:9 Harrington. Joseph Hubert ™_Q.B. Clare. loAva -Corpus Christi H. S. 22 188 6:0 Harvey, Thaddeus Harrison -, _.R.T. Wilmette. III. -New Trier. Winnetka 20 215 6:2 Hauserman. Samuel Fuller ™_L.E. Cleveland Hts.. O.. -University School 21 210 6:1% Heath. ClilTord Edward __ _ _R.G. Flint. Mich. -Flint Central H. S. _20 180 5:10 Hengel. Edward Donald _F.B. Pierre. So. Dak. _ -Pierre H. S. 21 190 5:11 Hettler. Gerhard William _R.G. Alliance, Ohio -Rayen. Youngstown —22 175 5:10 Hisoy. Claude Woodrow _L.T. Gary, Ind. -Cath. Cent. Hammond 20 6:1 
210 190 

Hofer, Willard Clair _Q.B. Rock Island, 111. __ .Rock Island H. S. _ .22 5:11 
Hollcndoner. Francis Jos. „ _UT . Chicago. III. .De La Salle Inst. .20 208 6:3 
Hoyne. Edward AVilliam — -R-E. Dayton. Ohio .U. of Dayton Prep-.19 180 5:11 
Hrachovec. Leo Armand — _L.E. White River. S.Dak. White River H. S. . .21 6:1 
183 Ins\verson. Martin Lewis — _L.E. Sandusky. Ohio . Sjtndusky H. S. -19 ISO 6:1 Jaeger. John Francis _R.G. Geneva, 111. .Marmion. Aurora .20 170 5:9 Jandras, Henry Lawrence — -.E.G. Bellairc. N. Y. . .Bellaire H. S. .20 183 6:0 Karr. James Joseph _R.G. Milwaukee. Wis. . -Pio Nono, St. Francis 21 190 3:11 Katter. George 'Woodrow — _.R.G. Johnstown, Ta, . -Cent. Cath. H. S. 19 180 5:9 _.R.T.  H. 
Kell.«» Paul Ernest Niles. Mich. -Niles S. 23 209 6:2 _Q.B.  20 
Kclloher. John Charles Lomin, Ohio — -Lorain H. S. 160 3:9 Kelly. Daniel Brady _Q.B. Forest Hills. L. L. -Chaminade. Mineola -21 168 5:uyj Kelly. John Francis —. _R.E. Rutherford. N. J. . -St. Mary's H. S. 22 186 6:2 Kelly. Peter Mullen _L.G. Chicago. III. -Fenwick. Oak P.lrk—20 1S8 5:9% Kelly, "William Ryan _L.H. OIney, Texas -Olney H. S. 20 160 3:9 Kerr. "William Howard __ -UE. Newburgh. N. Y. . -Newburgh Free Acad. 22 190 6:1 Kerwin. "William Francis "_— _L.T. Green Bay. Wis. — -St. Norbert. De Pere 21 215 6:1 Koch. Robert James Joseph 1Q.B. Calumet City. 111. . -Cath. Cent, Hammond 19 170 5:10 Korth. Howard Joseph _R.T. Saginaw. Mich. — -Saein.iw H. S. 19 190 6:1 Kovalcik.* George John _— _RH. Donora. Penna. — -Donora H. S. 23 100 6:0 Kristoff, Walter Wm.. Jr. R.H. Chicago. III. De La Salle Academy 20 163 5:10 Kuhlman. John Henry R.H. Buffalo. N. Y. -St. Joseph Inst. 22 175 5:10 Larkin. Edward Joseph „ R.E. Peoria. III. -Spalding Institute 19 ISO 6:3 Lee. Albert Bush F.B. Carlinville. III. -Carlinville H. S. -_ 20 190 5.-10 Leonard. Robert John .. _F.B. Cincinnati. Ohio _ -SL Xavier H. S 21 190 6:1 Liston. Thomas Patrick _Q.B. Chicago. HI. -Loj'ola Academy 20 178 5:11 Longhi,* Edward John _ C. Torrington. Conn. -Torrington H. S. 22 105 6:2 Lopez, Armand Muller „ _L.T. Fabens. Te-tas -Fabens H. S. IS 196 5:11% Lynn, Bradley Nicholas . _L.H. Santa Cruz. Calif. -Santa Cruz H. S 21 ISO 5:10 Maher, Joseph Garvin „ _L.H. Oneida. N. Y. — -Oneida H. S. 18 170 5:10 Malesbewski. "William Harry —"R.G. Mahwah. N. J. _ -Ramsey H. S. 22 ISO 5:10 Malone. Edward Joseph R.T. LaSalle. 111. - LaSallo-Peru Twp. 19 207 6:2 Maloney. John Malachi L.H. Boise. Idaho —— -Boise H. S 21 183 6:2 Mandjiak. Michael Mitchell __K.H. Kalamazoo. Mich. —-St. Augustine H. S 22 183 5:ll--i4 Marcucci. George Lawrence L.H. Chicago, III. -Lane Technical H. S. 21 178 5:10 MarquardU Clarence "William—R.H. Oak Park. 111. - Fenwick H. S : 19 173 6:0 Masterson. Bernard James Q.B. Oak Park. HI. -Fenwick H. S. 21 160 5:8 M.itthews. Edward Eugene R.T. New Straitsville. O. New Straitsville H. __20 215 6:0 McDonough. Joseph James R-T. Chicago, m. De La Salle H. S 21 177 6:0 McGannon. William "Vincent __L.H. Evansville. Ind. — Kcitz Memorial H. S. 19 170 5:9 McGoldrick.* James J. (Capt.) L.G. Philadelphia, P.i. _ W. Phila. Cathotic_-.21 175 5:11 Mclntyre. John Aloysius C. Providence, R, I— LaSalle Academy 21 186 6:1 McMahon. John Edward L.H.  Ind.  H. S. 21 5.-11% 
Indianapolis. Cathedral 175 
Miholick. Ferdinand Emil Q.B. South Bend. Ind. _ Central H. S. 22 172 5:8 Miller. John Joseph B.G. Pittslield. Mass _ St. Joseph H. S. 22 165 5:11 Mizerski. Richard Clarence L.T. Chicago. 111. DePaul Academy -20 210 6:2 Mooney. Alan Brendan C. Hartforxl. Conn. — Bulkeley H. S. 21 6.-3 
190 
193 

Moore. Frank Bradley L.T. Elwood. Ind. -. Elwood H. S. 20 6:0 
170 185 

Sroran. Robert Edward L.E. Oklahoma City. Okla. St. Gregorj-'s H. S IS 5:11% 
Morrison. Paul Edward — _R.H. Jersey City. N. J.-Raym. Riordan Prep. -23 5:10 
185 

Morrissey. Gerald Edward _L.G. Bennington. "Vt. — Bennington H. S. 22 3:9 
ISO 

Mortell. John Edwin C. Kankakee. III. St. Patrick's H. S. _20 6:0 Nardono. Joseph Robert . _L.E. Tiltonsville. Ohio — Tiltonsville H. S. 21 170 6:0 
ISS 

O'Brien. John Dennis — _R.E. Swissvale. Penna. -. Swissvale H. S. 20 6:% O'Hara. John Francis _ _L.G. Port Huron, Mich— St. Stephen H. S. 22 170 6:0 O'Loughlin. Wm. Anthony —I-.E. Toledo, Ohio Cent. Catholic H. S. 21 180 6:0 O'Menra, Daniel Richard R.T. Stamford, Conn. — Stamford H. S. 19 192 6:0 
165 

O'Meara. Walter Charles Q.B. Stamford. Conn. — Stamford H. S. 20 5:8 O'Neil. George Michael, Jr. __E.E. Pelham Manor. N.Y. Pelham H. S. 21 1S3 6:I« 
205 

O'Neill. Robert Francis L.T. Phoenixville, Pa. —. LaSalle. Phila 21 6:0 
215 

Ostcrmnn. Robert Thomas C. Detroit, Mich. St. Theresa H. S. -19 6:3 
(Continued on next page) 
tween the huddle and the line of scrimmage, and the tackling leaves much to be desired. We shan't con­sider timing and pass defense at this stage; or pass catching, for that matter, but they fit the rest of the picture. 
The point is that Coach Elmer Layden and his stalwart aides spent some of the finest afternoons of the spring sorting and instructing their large squad. They tried to offset in­experience by scrimmages which were run under actual game conditions. And they wound up by selecting "what appeared to be the eleven best men for their positions. 
These same selections held when practice opened September 10. We are reasonably sure that the No. 1 team contains the best 11 men on the squad, position for position. And yet the third team ties and nearly beats the first team. The first team has to get a second shot at the freshmen be­fore it can score its one touchdown of the afternoon. This does not mean that the" first team is lying down on the job, nor is Coach Layden worried about this lack of scoring. Scrim­mages and freshman games don't of­fer the incentive to the No. 1 team that they offer to the reserves and yearlings. Actual game competition "Will fan the competitive spark to life. Timing of plaj's is something to which the coaches have not devoted a great deal of attention up to this writing. But in the final drills before the Kansas opener, this factor was stressed, and perhaps another two weeks "will prove our fears were all wrong. 
While this year's team is green, there are enough boys back who re­member the start of the 1937 season that we may expect them to show the way to the rest. We hope that they will be serious about these early games—and there is every reason to expect a new, eager group to give its best. Coach Layden has had nothing but praise for the spirit of his squad, and for the hard licks the boys have been putting in on the practice field. 
For purposes of conversation, we have listed elsewhere in this article the way the teams line up at present. 
The names in capitals belong to those who are on the injured list at present. No one is seriously hurt, but in each case it is doubtful wheth­er the man will be available for the opener vrith Kansas. Naturally tim­ing suffers when a combination is broken by hospitalization — whic h again may be the answer to all the worrying we're doing for the head coach. 
Presently replacing the injured men are the following: Joe DeFranco has 
. moved up to the No. 1 team at left guard and Pete Kelly to the second team, with Frank Albert and Heinle 
Schrenker just a step behind. De-taken advantage of Corgan's injury Franco is the only one with game ex­to move up to the second team. Be­perience. Al Mooney. has moved up hind him, with Corgan still on the to Mclntyre's No. 2 center spot, with hospital list, are Max Bumell and Steve RogensM and Jack Fiimeran Clarence (Rube) Marquardt. Harold battling for the No. 3 job. Bob Sulli­Gottsacker, the hard luck boy, looked van, Cliff Heath, and John Gubanich like he was going to get a square shot are temporarily, at least, plugging at the fullback post until a leg injury the right guard gap. Frank Biagi is rendered him temporarily null two operating with the third team at left weeks ago. While he is convalescing, end in Eassas' absence. Paul Morri­Blilt Piepul, a sophomore, is filling his son has been coming fast at right shoes. Gottsacker has lots of time 
halfback in this, his senior year, and left, however, and he will be heard he is now pressing Zontini, having 
from. 
Number 1 Number 2 Number 3 
L.E.—^Brown L.E.—Kerr L.E.—RASSAS 
L.T.^Beinor L.T.—Brew L.T.—Gallagher 
L.G.—McGOLDRICK L.G.—^DeFranco L.G.—P. Kelly 
C. —Longhi C. —McINTYRE C. —Mooney R.G.—BOSSU K.G.—RIFFLE R.G.—R. Sullivan R.T.—Kell R.T.—Harvey R.T.—Bechtold E.E.—J. Kelly R.E.—O'Brien R.E.—Brennan Q.B.—Sitko Q.B.—Hofer Q.B.—Crowe L.H.—Stevenson L.H.—Sheridan L.H.—Saggau R.H.^Zontini E.H.—CORGAN R.H.—Morrison F.B.—Tonelli F.B.—Thesing F.B.—GOTTSACKER 

VARSITY FOOTBALL ROSTER (Continued) 
PCS. aoME TOWN PREP. SCHOOL AGE WCT. HT. EXP. 
Papa, Joseph John — _L.T. Pittsburgh. Pa. -Kiski Prep. -20 208 «:1 Fetrillo, James Joseph _R.T. Chicago, m. St. Thomas. Minn. __21 195 6:1« Piepul, Milton John — _F.B. Thompsonville. Conn. Cath. H.S.,SpringfieId 20 207 S:l Pictcrs. Charles Edward R.H. Mishawaka, Ind. Mishawaka H. S. 21 175 6:0 Porawski, Thaddeus Stanley __R.H. Bayonne, N. J. Bayonne H, S. 20 155 S:6 " Plain, Geo. Fred.. Jr. KE. E. Orange. N. J._B . Orange H. S. 21 188 6:1 Quiiin. Raymond Stephen R.E. Rochester, N. Y. Aquinas Institute 21 170 6:0 Rassas, Georce James I*E. Stamford, Conn. Stamford H. S 22 196 6:3 Riffle, Charles Francis R.G. Warren, Ohio Warren H. S. 20 205 6:0 
Rogenski, Steven Joseph ~C. Moline, III. ____Moline H. S. 22 205 6:1 Ryan, Daniel James _R.T. Chicago, m. Loyola Academy . -.22 215 6:3 Ryan, Jerome Andrew . _L.B. Susquehanna. Pa. —Laurel Hill Academy 19 5:10« 
180 190 

Ryan, 'Williani Richard. Jr. „L.G. Qeveland. Ohio Shaw H.S., E. Oeve. 22 6:0 Sabo, Stephen A F.B. South Bend, Ind. —Cath. Gent. Hammond 20 190 6:0 SacRcrt. Gerald Fitzgerald R.G. New York. N. Y Mt. St. Jos., Baltimore 20 175 6:8H Saffa, Farris Paul UH. Dnmiright. Okla. . -Drumright H. S. 21 182 6:% Saggau, Robert Joseph . _L.H. Dennison, Iowa ~ -Dennison H. S. 18 185 6:0 Sattta, Joseph John — -UH. Monroe. N. Y. -^ -Monroe H. S 22 175 5:9 Schmid. Lawrence Andrew _, R.T. Detroit, Mich, — _De La Salle H. S. 20 5:10 
198 

Schrenker, Henry Pershing . L.G. Elwood, Ind, -Elwood H. S. 20 190 5:10 
177 

Shannon. Michael Francis — R.E. Los Angeles, Calif. _Los Angeles H. S. -21 6:0 Sheridan, Benjamin Mason LH. Havana, IH. Havana H. S. -.21 171 5:9 Sheridan. Philip Francis UE. Rutherford. N. J. —St. Mary's H. S. -21 181 6:2 
205 

Simonich,** Edward Francis F.B. Ironwood, Mich L-L. Wright H. S. —22 6:2% Sitko, Steven Joseph Q.B. Ft. Wayne, Ind. Central H. S. 21 183 6:0 
188 

Smith. John AVheeler I_H. W. Winfield, N. Y. _ W.Winfield H. S. 20 6:1 
Sposato. Vincent Robert _F.B. Mt. Vernon, N. Y. -A. B. Davis H. S 18 175 5:11 
Stevenson,* Harry, Jr. _L.H. Bloomfield, N. J. _E . Orange. N.J.. H.S. 21 190 6:1 
180 

Sulli^Tin, John Edward — -UH . Chicago, HI. SL Mel's H. S. 22 6:2 
197 

Sullivan, Robert Edward _RG. Helena, Montana -Mt St. Charles H. S. 21 5:11 
180 

Sugnet, Robert Floyd _R.T. Buffalo. N. Y. __ -St. Jos. Cath. Inst. —20 5:11 
225 

Theisen. Charles John" — _L.T. St. Joseph, Mich. -St. Joseph H. S 22 6:4 
190 

Thesing,* Joseph Robert _ _F.B. Cincinnati, Ohio . -Ellder H. S. 20 5:11 
188 

Tonelli,* Mario George . -F.B. Chicago, HI. -DePaul Academy 21 170 5:11 Tremblay, Norman Charles - R.H. Water^'ille, Me. — -Waterville H. S. . -20 5:7% 
175 

Tuck. Prank Sweeney L.H. Hayden. Ariz. -Hayden H. S 172 S:10 Vergara, Victor Joseph Q.B. Larchmont, N. Y. -Mamaroneck.N.Y.H.S. 20 5:8 
197 

Way, Robert Orvillc K.T. Manchester. Mich. -Manchester H. S. 20 5:10% 
172 Weber, George William L.G. Geveland, Ohio — -West H. S 21 5:9 
160 Wilkins, Noel Frederick B.H. Milford, Conn. — -Milford H. S. 5:9 
180 Williams. Theodore Patrick R.H. Gloucester, Mass. --Gloucester H. S. 5:11 
195 196 

Windheim, Robert George K,G. W. Concord, Mass. -Concord H. S. 5:11 Young. James Arista C. Houston, Texas St. Thomas College 20 175 6:1 Zontini.* Louis Rogers _.R.H. Whitcsville. W. Va.-Sherman, Seth, W.Va. 20 185 5:8« Zuendel, Joseph Charles -L.G. Des Moines. la. . Dowling H. S. 21 5:11 
October. 1938 


Plan Army Game Week-End 
New York Arranges 

October 28 Reunion 

For those who will be in New York to attend the twenty-fifth meeting of Army and Notre Dame, the Notre Dame Club of New York has planned two functions. 
The first is a Rally and Reunion the night before the game, Friday, October 28. This will be held at the Hotel Pennsylvania. The Reunion, which several Classes are emphasiz­ing in this issue, will get under way between 7:30 and 8:00. About 9 o'clock a short Notre Dame program to comprise the Rally will start. The charge is one dollar ($1) per person and all the proceeds go to the Rockne Memorial Fund. Everyone is expected. 
Tickets ihould be obtained from Robert M. Hamilton, 63 Wall St., Secretary of the Club, in advance, as there will be no sale at the door. 
Wives, girl friends, and friends are invited to accompany alumni. 
For the Saturday evening, follow­ing the game, the Club is cooperating with Rev. George Murdock, in a dance for the benefit of the Catholic Chapel at West Point, of which Father Murdock is chaplain. 
The dance is formal, in tbe grand ballroom of the Astor Hotel. Tickets are five dollars a couple, boxes fifty dollars, which includes five couples. Peter Van Steeden and his orchestra will play. 
For those interested, Bob Hamil­ton, N. Y. Club Secretary, will ar­range to have Father Murdock extend an invitation. There will be no door sale. Only N. D. alumni will join the cadets and army officers, who will be in their own colorful full dress, for this affair. 
1938 VARSITY FOOTBALL 

SCHEDULE Oct. 1 Kansas at Notre Dame Oct. 8 Georgria Tech at Atlanta Oct. IS Illinois at Notre Dame Oct. 22 Carnegie Tech at Notre Dame Oct. 29 Army at New York NOT. S Navy at Baltimore NOT. 12 Minnesota at Notre Dame NOT. 19 Northwestern at Evanston Dec 3 Southern Cal. at Los Angeles 
1938 "B" TEAM SCHEDULE Oct. 2 Jordan College, at Menom­inee, Michigan Oct 8 Northwestern University "B" Team, at ETanston Oct IS University of Illinois "B" Team, at Champaign Oct 29 Purdue UniTersity "B" Team, at Notre Dame 

» » »
ALUMNI CLUBS 
The 1938-7939>lfumni Board 
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, '03, Notre Dame, Ind.. honorary President Ambrose A. CConnell, '07, Washington, D.C-„ President Joseph B. McGIynn, *12, East St. Louis, Illinob First Vice-President James M. Phelan, '17, Seattle, Washington Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Indiana. Secretary-Tredsurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Indiana-Assistant Secretary Don P. CKeef^ '03, Detroit, Michigan-,„ Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey-Director to 1940 Francis H. McKeever, '03, Qiicago, Illinois— Director to 1941 Edward F. O'TooIe, '25, Qiicago, Illinois.. Director to 1942 John C. 0'G)nnor, '38, Indianapolis, Indiana iSpecid Director to 1939 
William E. Cotter, '13, New York Gty. 
AKRON 
Hasrh CalopT. *33. ICF.D. 4. President; Jc^n Doran, *33» 69 £ . MiU Street. Secretary. The Akron Notre Dame Club has recently completed a most successful summer season under the sruidance of one of this city's prom­ising younff barristers. Hush Colopy, '33. President Colopy outline a progn^am jammed with entertainment, which practically kept the outfit up and comins the entire time. 
Art Dutt, 'as, arranged a golf tournament on June 21 at Braebum Country Club in which Will Maloy, '34, won, followed closely by Bob Kalb, '34- Both were rewarded with fine prizes. Glenn Smith won top honors for eat­ing the most steak sandwiches. His re\vard wasn't so good. 
Not long following this event Larry Halter, *31, and Dick Botzum, '31, decided the boys should dance and on July 29 the "Big Apple" was given a workout at Brookside Country Club. The proceeds (and there were some) went into a scholarship fund. Now if you know Joe Kraker, '29, you soon realize you can't keep him down and on September 12 Joe supervised a good old fashioned smoker at Bill "Jake Ruppert" Burkhardfs, '35, brew­ery. That's such a nice place to have a smok­er. The honored guests included Pat McCarty, '38, who had just returned from the Chicago All-Star game, to take up his coaching duties at Ursuline High school in Youngstown. Ohio, and John Moir and Paul Nowak, '38, basket­ball players deluxe of last year's Notre Dame champions, who will play for Tlrestone Tire and Rubber- Co. in the national league. Also John Mahoney, '38; James Fesler, *34; Sam Jackson, '33. and Jack Kane, '25 of Youngs­town. Jack, by the way, is now the assistant prosecutor of Mahoning County. Frank Steel, '25. introduced Jimmy Aiken, athletic director of Akron Uni\-ersity. who commented on the loyalty of Notre Dame men to their school. Steel was recently honored himself with a new addition to the family. Tom Markey, '29, for­mer captain of the Notre Dame tennis team boosted the club rating by helping to win the Akron City doubles championship. 
Johnny Doran. 

ARKANSAS 
Bnrt L. Hoberts, 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock. Ark.. SecreUry. 

BENGAL 
Bt. Rev. Timothy Crowley, C.S.C, '02, Dacca, BenKid. India. President; Rev. J. J. Hennessey, C.S.a, '02, Dacca, Bensal, India, Secretary. 
£x-Officio Director to 1939 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
Thomas Grimes, *34, 35 South Third Street, Niles, Michigan. President; Sheridan Cook, '32, c-o South Bend Tribune. 119 North Third Street. Niles, Michigan. Secretary. 

A "super stag party" for members of the club and their friends was held near St. Joseph on the Lake Michigan beach on August IS. The site was selected by Gene O'Toole and Maury Weber. Entertainment was in the form of swimming, horseshoes, and a ball game be­tween the "Niles Pretzel Benders and the All County Harbujoes." 
The committees in charge were: Hot-dogs and buns. Kenny Geideman; Horseshoes and Coffee. Jim Bookwaltcr; Transportation, Bill Madden; Refreshments, John Jauch; Tubs and Ice, Maury Weber, Gene O'Toole, Frank Deitle, and Muggs McGrath; Indoor ball and bats, Jim Kenncy; Fire and service committee. Foxy Wedel. Phil Landsman, John Mcdo. BiU De­senberg. Cap Grathwohl and Gene GrathwohL 
BUFFALO 
Carlos H. Frank. '33. 232 Barton Street. President: Ralph F. Else, '34, 278 Voorhees Avenue. Secretary. 

The Buffalo Club will sponsor two trips to the Army game for its members, their fam­ilies, and friends. The first tour will leave Buffalo on October 28 on the Erie Railroad at 2 p.m., and the other by the same route at 
9:45 p.m. 
Ralph F. Else, secretary of the club, reports as follows: "We believe we have the most attractive trip offered so far and we sincerely invite all in Western New York to take ad­vantage of this trip. Full details can be obtained from yours truly." 
Ralph Else wrote that Thomas Dollard. dis­trict governor, was in Buffalo in the middle of September for a meeting with club officers regarding the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
BOSTON 
Fred C. Solari. '35, Center St . Pembroke. Mass., President; John J. Hanley. '34, 409 Salem St, Medford, Mass., SecreUry; Paul McManns, *34, Fox & Hounds Club, Boston, Mass., Secretary. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ina.-ni.) 
Ambrose McGinnis, '24, 422 Sonth *'¥r SU, Crown Point Ind.. President; Fred J. Sal­man. Jr., *28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Ind., Secretary. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) Jolin Land. 'U, A Hc4rtW(Md Ave, Schen­ectady, PRs:4cBt; BliAacl Lctfiir, '33, 1212 Uni«n St, Schenectady. Secrctaiy. 
On August 27 at Babcock Z.ake just outside Troy. Tom Dallard, shooed his wife and child into town and the club threw a "come and be wined, dined and entertained" picnic with the club treasury footing the bill. 
In the true gospel tradiUon when folks were invited to the banquet, we found that John Mechan had to go north to bring his family home. Dick Wabh was going away on one of his numerous week-ends, Jads Hnethcr had business with the steel moguls, Elmo Hoyer was in the midst of housecleaning, Geoixe Comean had a date, Al Castintem had an engagement with the Saratoga ponies. Joe Bucci and the other Amsterdam boys had to look to their jobs—but why go on? After all some of the fellows did show up. 
The agility left in the old frames was really surprising. Bill Davis was holding his heart after the first handball game, but then came back strong. Tom Hits as pitcher, assist­ed by Jim Comean'a umpiring and Ed Kene­fake'a fielding, formed an tmbeatable softball combination. Of course, Chris Connolly, Tom Farley, Joe Conlln, and Charlie Flanagan took their turns at bat 
After the softball game, with an interlude for eating and drinking, Larry O'Neill, Don. Devine and George Kristcl were still able to run so they were naturally the stars in the touch football game. 
In the dusk. Jack Casawa, egged on by his brother Bill, produced a shot put and gave an exhibition in the art of shot putting, but very much to his chagrin found that several of the boys could not throw it as prettily, but none could throw it farther. 
I^arry Weiss and Jade Smith soon found out that food and drink do not follow one into playing fields, so spent most of their time near the camp with Tom Dollard. 
After dark Jade Land and Mike Lcding set up a projector and ran off some movies en­titled "Highlights of the 1936 Football Sea­son." These films, which were forwarded by the Alumni Office, were so well received that we expect to make additional requests for films. 
During the proceedings C L. Tonhey dropped in from Glens Falls. He produced a five dollar bill and offered to pay his dues. We then found out that no one intended to get stuck at the "free party," since no one could change the bill. 
Spaaking of five dollar bills, we understand that Tom Dollard lost one in a small country town when he pleaded guilty to the knowledge that 25 m.p.h. on a sign could not be read as 35 m.p.h. The incident occurred while he was dashing around the state working on the revived Rockne Memorial Fund. 
The club is trying out a small scale activity this fall offering game and railroad tickets to the Army-Notre Dame game. If the thing takes, it vrill probably be expanded next fall. 
The society editor advises me, taking the events in order. Ccorte Comean is engaged to Miss Mae Allen. Lany Weiss is married to the former Miss Harcella lading and Bd Kcnefake has an heir. Too bad the fellows 
don't send more news to the society editor. The important events confronting the club are the revived Kockne Memorial Drive and the Christmas dance. The new club motto is "As Goes the Christ­mas Dance, so Goes the Free Picnic" Mike Lcdin?. 
CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes. '16. 1910 Oakland St.. LmnsinfT. President; J. Harvey Gauthicr. '30. Bark River, Mich., Secretary. 

CENTRAL NEW JERSEY 
Anthony V. Ceras. "28, Perth Amboj- Nat'L Bank Bldffu Perth Ambo3*. President; John Lisicki, '31, 215 Water Street, Perth Ambojr, Secretary. 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Harr>- Nestcr, '20, 8 E. Broad Street, Co-Inmbas, President; John S. Loder, ex. '25, Union Clothins Co., Columbus, Secretary. 

CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA 
William J. McAleer, 'Jl, 1318 19th Avenue, Altoona, Pa., President; Edward F. Lee, '31, 210 13th Street, Altoona, Pa., Secre­tary-. 
CHICAGO 
Francis T. McCurrie, *27, 8219 S. Saneamon St , President; Edwin Leo Kyan, '27, 111 
W. Washinctcn Blvd., Sccretar>-. 
CINCINNATI 
Joseph S. Morrisscy. *28. 317 Tuscalum. President; Raj-mond J. Pellman, ex. '34, 3305 Eastside Ave, Sccrctar>'. 

The first meeting o fthe Club since June was held at the Kemper Lane Hotel Friday, September 23, and was presided over by Joe Morrisse}', vice-president. President Jack Hcil­ker left Cincinnati during the summer to as­sume a new position with a Chicago firm. We €n\T the Chicago alumni and will miss Jack. Joe Morrissey has already taken up the duties of president. 
Frank Sweeney, the host, and manager of the Kemper Lane Hotel, greeted the record crowd with his usual geniality and hospitality. Three 1938 graduates were welcomed into the ranks. They are John Cottinsham. Mike Crowe and James Longon. 
Some of the chatter around the table before dinner seemed to run like this: "How did you like the summer picnic at Bob Van Lahr's farm ?" 
"It was swell. Certainb' brought out a. good crowd of the boys.*' "My legs were stiff all the next day from that ball game." 
"I didn't play ball but I surely did take a trimming from Bob Van Lahr in a horseshoe game. That guy must practice pitching horse­shoes by throwing silver dollars around in his father's bank." 
"Did you hear about Don Dixon? He just received an appointment from the attorney ganeral of Ohio as attorney in charge of In­dustrial Commission cases in southern Ohio." 
"Gee. that's great, Don's certainly going places." "Say, what happened to Ray Pellman? I didn't see him at the picnic." 
"Didn't you hear? Just about that time he was anxiously awaiting the arrival of his little daughter. Alice Carroll, who was born at the Good Samaritan hospital, August 29. 
Raj'mond J. Pellman. 

CLEVELAND 
Karl E. Martersteck. '29, Wiiaamson BIdg.. President: G. Albert Lawton, ex. '33, 2097 Wyandotte Ave., Lakewood. Secretao'­

Summer is over. It becomes our task to chronicle briefly the data and gossip of an tmusually busy season. The first affair was a luncheon at Berwin's. Under John Begley's sponsorship. 65 attended: among them were eight former presidents of the club. Guest speaker Rt. Rev. Maurice F. Griffin lamented modem wedding ceremonies which forget the religious significance and emphasized the ma­terial: e.g.. at a recent wedding the groom. four ushers, and best man had their hair carefully marcelled, or at least so Msgr. Grif­fin said. We were pleasantly surprised to see Father Paul Hallinan, ordained in June, at this luncheon. 
We have regretted not attending John V«n-ables' party at Laisy's. From all accounts it was an interesting occasion, and the first par­ty of the kind the club has ever had which was financially successful. We are to!d that a great many attended the golf party, and that it was an enjoyable gathering, but we have teen unable to corner anyone who could be more explicit. 
Dan Cannon garnered 60 guests at his mid­summer luncheon, again at Berwin's, which number is highly commendable for the peak of the vacation season. Speakers Tom Conley, Ray Ride, Jack Graney were real inducements. 
The highlights of the summer social affairs was Chairman Slarty CommeIla*s dance on the Allerton Roof where everyone was more than comfortably cool the hottest night of the year. Bob Morrisscy wore a table cloth over his suit —Hattie Carnegie take note. Marty even suc­ceeded in luring Fred Ferguson of Lorain to the larger city. After the dance we met the new Mrs. Uprichard at Art Carey's house. Art Beo'ar, back from Cincinnati, also dropped in. 
The student donee, arranged by Tom Roche and Tom Schrciner who are seniors this year, drew a large coterie of the younger folk. To Charlie Butler is due credit for much of the details of tickets, etc Incidentally, Charlie is breaking a family precedent this fall when he transfers to Oberlin to studj' music. Vincc Murphy and Roy Scholz. the latter on his summer vacation from Johns Hopkins, attend­ed the dance. 
Art Gallagher underwent a major operation recently. We wish him the best for a speedy recovery*. Clayton Lcroux has a baby girl, as has Jon Beljon. the latter child christened Yvonne, Louis Stcttlcr recently added H. Louis, Jr.. to his household. The baby's birth was roundly celebrated by the entire Lake­wood Little Theatre group with whom Louie was practicing for the fall opening when the baby arrived. Charlie Rohr will soon leave the premises where he and his father have operated a restaurant for 54 years. Chuck bought a building on Chester Avenue and is having it completely redecorated before mov­ing. And while we're on the subject of buy­ing, has anyone seen Joe Butler's 12-cy1indcr Cadillac? Joe is going to have the WPA in­stall a shower and a range in the car (which he keeps in the Goodyear hangar at Akron) and take the club to South Bend for a week­end this fall. 
Tom Conley is a member of John Carroll's "Come to Carroll" committee and as such has been eminently successful. His football team this year shows a' great deal of promise. Frankic Gaul, assisting Tom again this year, went to Kent State University for his master's degree in physical education this summer. 
The St. Joseph Valley Club in Sontfa Bend is again conducting its smokers on the Friday' nights before all the home football games. Visiting alumni and their friends are, as before, cordially invited by the club officers to be present. Details as to time and place of any mectinc can be easily obtained from one of the Sonth Bend hotels. 

Louis Hmby spends most of his time on trains to Chicago and New York. He is doing sales promotion and advertising work for Gen­eral Electric Tom Kiener has a beautiful new house in Beach Cliff. If his daughter follows her brother's footsteps she'll be a real heart-breaker. Tom. Jr.. won a baby contest last spring. 
Dick Weppner and Jerry Reidy are active in reviving The Rosarians, an organization which ten years ago was an active factor in Cleve­land Catholic social life. Pierce O'Connor is now practicing law on his own hook, with offices at 1105 Fidelity Building. In the last issue we reported incorrectly that Harlan Herrmann represented a local advertising ag­ency. He is working for a finance company. Tom Byme, Clayt Leronx. Howie Hinkle, and Jim Driscoll are working hard on a football rally to be held October 15. Tickets are $1.00 and entitle the purchaser to admission to the rally among other things. 
ITie monthly magazine, "Notes and Dates," has been very well received and is to be con­tinued. Jim Bourke, Tom Byrne, and Dick Prezebel edit the pamphlet. The last of the summer luncheons was held at Guildhall Res­taurant September 19. Frank Cull was chair­man, and a splendid one His guest speaker. Ohio State Chief Justice Wcigandt gave an interesting and instructing speech on the proper function of the judiciary section of government. Mr. Cull dre%v some members we have not seen for a long time, but whom we hope to see again soon. Among these were Bucky Dahman, Roger Brennan. and Dan Dnfify. 
TTiat's all for this time or we'll have a 

column as long as our classmate. Senator 
HocJireiter. 
Al Lawton. 

CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
William A. Hnriey. *28, 70 Montrose SL. Springfield, Mass., President; Francis T. Aheam, *27, c-o Hartford Times. Hartford. Conn.. Secretary. 

DALLAS 
James P. Sirift, '24, 1202 Southwestern Life Bide.. Dallas, President; Franci; A. McCul­louKh, '30, 917 First National Bank BME., Dallas, Secretary. 

DAYTON 
Engcne Mayl, '24, 400 Irving Ave., Presi­dent; William Cronin, '29, 418 Crafton Ave.. Secretary. 

DENVER 
Robert A. Dick. '29, 930 Marion Street, Telephone Bldg, President; Harrj* Lawrence. '29, 1932 Broadway. SecreUry. 

DETROIT 
Lincoln Wnrzcr, '35, 758 Atkinson, Presi­dent; Arthur D. Crtinin, '37, 19160 Wood­ston Road, Secretary. 

The club had a golf tournament at the Lake-shore Golf Club on July 26, with Lowell Comerford in charge. Especially notable by their presence were many of the '38 gradu­ates, given a special welcome by the club members. Secretary Art Cronin, reports that Line Wurzer, president of the club, has just taken a new position with a gear and machine concern in a town just outside of Ann Arbor. Michigan. Line is still close enough to Detroit, though, to conduct the regular monthly meet­ings, which were due to be under way an October 3. The schedule calls for club meet­ings on the first Monday night of each month. 
Fred Carideo was recently welcomed to De­troit as head coach and athletic director of Visitation High school. Art Cronin reports that Lowell Comerford, Don Herron. Jack Zimraers, Tom Moran. and Dan Henry had especially attractive summer vacations. How­
ard Bccchlnor and Line Wurzcr were reported as "sticking to the guns," except for a few week-ends. 
DES MOINES 
John T. Stark. '17, 1048. 35th Street. Presi­dent; Richard Hyde. '35. 678 26th Street. Secretary. 
DUBUQUE 
C. I. Krajewski. '16, 321 Bank & Insurance B!dK.. President; Henry I. Trcnkle. '24. 180 
S. Booth St.. Secretary. 
EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. *33. 401 Wysor Bldg,,Muncie. Ind., Pres'dcnt; Alvis E. Graneer. ex. '31. 617 S. Jefferson St.. Hartford City, Ind., Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre, *2S, Bethlehem. President. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Charles J. Wittman, '31, 621 Schenley Dr., President; William K. Bayer. *36, 724 W. 10th St.. Secretary. 
FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth, '31, 723 Union Industrial Bid);.. President; Donald F. MacDonald. *31, 2134 S. SaKinaw St., Secretary. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edward S. Sullivan. >24. 125 E. Suttenfield St.. President; Maurice J. DeWald, '33, 2415 Huburtas, St, Secretary. 
Secretarj- DeWald reported, on September IS. that the club was working hard on raising its share of the funds for the Rockne Mem­orial Butldin;:. In chari;c of the solicitations for Fort Wayne and surroundinET areas are Donnelly P. McDonald as chairman, assisted by Ed Sullivan. Tom McKieman. Harr?* G. HoKan. 
To open the local campaijm, a largely-at­tended mcetitng was conducted in the Catholic Community Center on September 9. Present from the University were Father Hugh 0*Don­nell and Elmer F. Layden, as chief speakers, together with Joseph F. Donahue, governor of District 1, J. Arthur Haley, Herbert Jones and Jim Armstrong. Father O'Donnell and Elmer Layden spoke over radio station WOWO in support of the drive. Preceding the gen­eral public meeting, a dinner for Notre Dame men was held in the Hotel Keenan. 
GOGEBIC RANGE 
Francis J. Vukovich, '33, Ridge St., Iron­wood. Mich.. President; John C. Sullivan, '22, 10 Newport Heights, Ironwood. Mich., Secretary. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
Earl Leach. '29. 641 E. Leonard St., Presi­dent; A. John Alt, ex. '34, 628 Turner Ave., Secretary. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Robert Burke. '36. 2114 Douelass Boulevard. Louisville. President; Paul Martcrslcck. '34, 2303 Barn-ell. Louisville. Secretary*. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
Norbert Christman. *32. 1113 Lawc Street. President: A. E. Bicbel, 'ai. 112 S. Wash­ington Street. Secretary. 
HAMILTON, OHIO 
M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St. Presi­dent; Marc A. Fielirer. '27. 701 Rcntschler Bide.. Secrvtar}-. 
HARRISBURG 
John J. McNeill. '33. 35S S. 13th Street, President; Richard J. O'Donncll. '31. 615 N. I8th Street. Sccretar}-. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wi«.) 
Joseph A. Lauerman. '31. 1975 Riverside Ave.. Marinette. Wis., President; Francis C. Boyce. ex. '32. 1401 First Ave.. S.. Esca­naba, Mich.. Secretary'. 
HOUSTON 
Charles S. Atchison, ex. *30, 418 W. Ala­bama Street. President; Raymond B. Keat­ing, *35, 1803 Sterling Bldg., Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Arthur C Shea, '22. 256 N. Meridian. Presi­dent; Francis J. Noll, '31. 1103 3Ierchants Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Club of Indianapolis spon­sored its tenth annual golf tournament and dinner. August 4, at the Hillcrest Country Club in Indianapolis. 
Among the guests were Peter C. Reilly a member of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University, J. W, Hannon, Indianapolis, James 
E. Armstrong, who drove down from Notre Dame with Chct Grant, assistant football coach, and Bill Doolcy. of the ALUMNUS staff. Several Georgetown and Catholic Uni­versity alumni were also present as guests. 
Despite a severe rain storm the affair was well attended by TC alumni and their guests. The inclement weather tended to slow up the golf games considerably and bocsted the score of many participants. 
The contest for low gross ended in n tie between James W. Corbctt, '24. of Marion, Indiana, and Michael J. O'Connor. *3T, with a score of TS. These men both get their names on the magnificent trophy donated by Mr, Reilly. 
Leo Grace. '25. of Kokomo, Indiana, won low net with a score of 68. Larry Sexton, '33. won blind par. Robert Moynahan, '36, won the pitching and putting contest held after anapoUs on Mondays to attend these luncheons at the Board of Trade Building. This also goes for our Indianapolis alnmnu 
Flans for the Scholarship Fund Football Dance on November 4 at the Indianapolis Athletic Club are tn the making. 
Frank J. Noll. Jr. 
Art Shea, president of the club, has ap­pointed the following committee chairman for 1938-39: Membership. George A. Smith. Jr.; Reception. J. Albert Smith; Placement, Frank. 
J. McCarthy; Program, B. T. Loeffler; Special Events, W. J, Stahldrchcr; Scholarship Fund —^Finance, James £. Deery; Publicity, WiUiara 
J. Ash; Public Relations. Jolm T. Rocap; Un­dergraduate. R. Michael Fox. 
Under Art's expert direction the club has issued a mimeographed club directory, con­taining names, and addresses (both business and residential), and telephone numbers (both business and residential), of 232 Notre Dame men who reside in Indianapolis and nearby cities. As an example of a directory job thoroughly, yet inexpensively done, this In­dianapolis effort takes high honors. 
The club has announced a testimonial dinner for Father Thomas Steiner. new provincial of the Order, w^ho is a former resident of Indian-

Presidcnt Art Shea of the tndhnapolis Club is the orator and the occasion is the ciub*s annual golf party on August 4. In the center is Jim Ktrby, golf chairman, and to the right, John Harrington, general chairman. 
the golf game. The driving contest was taken apolis. The tentative date is November 30. without much difTicuIty by Al "Recount" Details will be made known later. Fceney, *14. who aspires to the office of Marion County sheriff this November. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN Walter Ducer. '17. 339 W. MorreD St.. Pr»­After the dinner in the evening Mr. Reilly ident: Edward T. O'Neil, 'ZG. Wildwood made a talk congratulating the Notre Dame Apts.. Secrctarr. 
Club in getting together such a large number of members and complimented them on their JOLIET, ILLINOIS 
program for the coming year Jim Kirby. golf Thomu P. Feely, '32. SIS Bnell ATC. Presi­dent; Lawrence J. Dnnda, ex. '33. 334 N. 
chairman, distributed the golf prizes. Nearly Raynor Ave.. Secretary. 

everyone received some kind of prize through the splendid cooperation of many Notre Dame KANSAS alumni and friends of Notre Dame. John Har­Albert J. Gebert. '30. U. of Wichita, Wich­
ita, Kansas. President; Dan Wclcfaons, *30, rington. '29. was the general chairman of the 623 Elm St.. Ottawa. Kansas, SecreUry. 

affair, working with Art Shea, club president. KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
The Monday luncheons are becoming well John J. O'Connor, '34, 4133 Merrier Street, 

attended now that the weather is cooler. Mike Kansas City. Ho., President; Norman BL Fox, *34. Gcorce A. Smith. 'OS, Charles Slason. Bowes. '33. 3325 RockhiU Road. Kansas City, *2G. Jim Kirby, *31, and Larry Sextan. '33. 
Mo., Secretary. are there frequently. We would welcome any We planned our annual summer rally for Notre Dame man who happens to be in Indi-Saturday. July 23. at nearby Quivera I^alces in 
Kansas; and as usual, drew one of the heavi­«st rains of an unusually damp season. Activ­ities were curtailed of course, but a change of venue was taken to the employees* recreation rooms of the Hosue Mercantile Company. Jolin Dttcan, Dan Fo!ey» and Bob Tyler, the ffolfing fiends, thus missed their chance to polish off some of the younger lads, Tyler's iron shots are said to put one in mind of Bob Feller's fast one: lots of stuff but faulty Erection. 
From our meager notes we recall these regu­lars among others, who checked in at some time that drizzly afternoon: the three Higgins brothers, Charlej-, Tom, and Jim; Bill Ma-honey, Fred Weiss, Barney Quirk. Joe Waller, Bob Pendergast, Frank luen. Jack O'Connor, Vincc DeConrsey, Hal Quinlan, out here from Boston, Ridi Bowes, Al Crooks, Joe Manrin, John Toyne, the brothers Haake, Ed Scitcr, and Tom Beedy, here with the Kansas City 
Star. 
We hear at infrequent intervals of our errant Messrs. Mansfield, late of the Carolinas, and Sheeban, who are in Denver. From re­liable sources we gather that they have been up and down some of those heights more often that Zebulon Pike's troopers. Paul Don­negan has likewise ^een out in that country. 
Our K^TicaR football scouts inform this of­fice that Don Elser and Marty Peters may develop another college leader at St. Bene­dict's. Al Gebcrt at Wichita opened with the West Pointers; but the wise ones were not selling him too short. 
Norm Bowes. 
LA PORTE, INDIANA Norman E. Duke. '34, 304 Niles St.. Presi­dent; Robert E. Qainn, ex. *36, 1401 Monroe St., Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES Donglas Daley, '30, 781 Ceres Ave., Presi­dent; Thomas Ashe, '31, 7110 Middlcton St.. HnnUngton Park. Calif-, Secretary,. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burke, '88, 307 Camp St.. New Or­
• leans. La., President; Cyprian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans, La., Secretary. 
MANILA Alfonso Ponce Emile, '05. Manila, Presi­dent; Gonzalo R. Valdes, '35, 709 San Max­cclino. Secretary. 
MEMPHIS Galvin Hudson. '15, Parlniew Hotel. Presi­dent; Bailey Walsh, ex. '27, Columbian JIu­tnal Tower, Secretary. 
We had a luncheon for members of the Notre Dame club aand present students in Notre Dame at the Peabody HoteJ on June 14. Some of those present were as follows: 
Phil Canale, Fred Bauer, Emmctt Stritdi, Hagfa Hagevney, Jim Welsh, Mark Beatus, Storla Canale, Donnell McCormack, Jerrj* F€>­ky, Emmett Wood. Frank Frennala. Dorsey Matfais, Larry Thompson. Martin McGinnis, Anstin Hall, Larry Sutton, AL J. McCormack, Bill Foley, Frank Howland. Gahin Hadson, Buley Walih. 
The luncheon was enlivened by talks from most of the present students, who gave their ideas on the coming year at Notre Dame, and their experiences during the past year. 
Also, Hark Beatus. who attended the Notre Dame graduation exercises this year, and who is said to be the oldest Notre Dame alumnus in Memphis, related his experiences at the exercises. It w*as thoroughly enjoyed. 
Hie Notre Dame Club was also pleased to hear from Frank Howland, who has recently joined our club, and who is resident general agent of the Massachusetts Mutual Life Insur­ance Company. 
Our club is very active and we are prood of our accomplishments. Bailey Wafalu 
When Bailey Waldi, secretary of the club, wrote on September 19, he said that the or* ganization had been active in preparation for a trip to one of the Notre Dame football games this fall. Being considered at that time were the Minnesota. Northwestern, and Geor ^ Tech games. 
Hie club was very delighted with the dec­tipn of Galvin Hadson as the district lieuten* ant-governor of the Alumni Association. He is president of the Memphis club. Quoting Bailey on this election: "Galvin has been the main spring of a revitalized Notre Dame Club in Memphis, and is certainly deserving of the honor." 
MIAMI, FLORIDA Vincent a Giblin. '18. 4103 Collins Ave.. Miami Beach, President; Daniel J. Lino, ex. '34. 1617 N. W. Ninth Ave., Miami, Secre­tary, 
MILWAUKEE James B. Corrigan, '35, 1829 N. 69tli St., President; John E. Claader, '34, 1219 W. Vliet St., SecreUry. 
Nothing took place after Universal Notre 
Dame Night until we had our annual summer get-to-gether August 25 at Chenequa Country Club. Most .of the fellows played golf and -baseball in the afternoon and worked up a good appetite for the steak and com roast. Immediately after dinner a meeting was held and officers for the coming year were elected. James B. Corrigan, '35. was elected president; C W. Collins, vice president, and S6ba E. 
Clander, secretary and treasurer. 
There is a football rally scheduled for Oc* tober 29 to listen to the Army game and also to see who the lucky winner of four tickets to the Minnesota game, plus cash for ex­penses, will be. 
This past summer has seen some of our men leave for other cities. Bob Mullen to Chicago; Ralph Lee to St. Paul where he has charge of the Health Spot Shoe Store: Ed Graham to Chicago; J. W. Hayward to 5205 2nd Ave. So., Minneapolis; Jack Jaeger to Pittsburgii, where he is working for Holeproof Hosiery and Harry Langdon to somewhere in Texas. 
Jerry Fox. of Chilton, 'Wisconsin, who is with us most of the time, is running for gov­ernor of 'Wisconsin on the Democratic ticket. Needless to s=y, we are all pulling for him. 
Our new vice-president, C W. ColUni, sur­
prised us all by being quietly married a few 
weeks ago. Mrs. Collins, formerly ICiss I>eoett-
Adney, is from Richland Center. The mar­
riage was performed in Butler. 'Wisconsin by 
Father Ed Wagner. Jerry Fox was best man. 
John £ . Claader 
MONTANA Hnsb O' Keefe. '31. 321 Walker St^ Bntte. President; Ray Gowles, '37, 213 N. Idaho St., Butte. Secretary. 
NASHVILLE Kennedy Jones, *30, Jones Chemical Co., Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY Dr. Paul A. O'Connor, '31, Newaric City Hospital. Newark. President; John R. Blan­da, '31, 172 Passaic St, Passaic, Secretary. 
As the new secretary of the New Jersey Club, it is going to be quite a different 5ob to fill the position of Phil Heinle who did such a splendid job in this c^paacity last year. Howe^-er, I shall see if I can't, even in a small way, measure up to the gauge set by Phil. 
The first important matter of the season occurred on September 7 at the Essex House in Newark w*herc the alumni in the role of hosts held a Freshmen Welcome. Under the able chairmanship of Bob Ryan, the affair went off smoothly and in an interesting man­ner. Larry Doyle, the campus club president, and Dr. Paal O'Connor, the alumni president, both spoke. Father Eogcne Bailee represented the TTniversity and. with his anecdotes and singing, every one seemed to be well pleased. To conclude the evening a buffet supper was served and a moving picture of the campus and a football game of last year were shown. 
As a result of the several meetings held during the summer at Bncky O'Connor's house, the committees for various events formulated a calendar, which included the annual Re­treat from September 30 to October 2, of which Les Jandoli was chairman, and the Army game payoff to be held October 22, at which time the Hard Times Dance will be held at Singer's Grove, Springfield. New Jer­sey. Of the latter Sam Colomso is to act as chairman. The committees also decided on a special train to the Navy- game. 
As a change from the usual procedure of holding Christmas dances, the club this year is going to have a New Year's Eve Bail, which will be held at the Robert Treat Hotel in Newark. Ray Gciger has been elected to handle the arrangements and Phil Heinle the tickets. It is the hoi>e of the committee and the club that the New Year's Eve party will be the forerunner of an annual affair of the same kind. 
John Blanda. 
NEW YORK CITY Daniel J. O'Neil. '25, 101 Cooper St . Presi­dent; Robert A. Hamilton, '28, 63 Wall St, Secretary. 
Plans for the Army game week-end are made kno^vn in a si>ecial story elsewhere in this issue. Members of the club are asked to look for it and to make careful note of its contents. 
The first club activity of the summer was the June meeting in which more than 150 members welcomed the June graduates. The chief speakers were Daniel Higgins. president, and George Denniston, executive director of the Catholic Youth Organization. They ap­pealed to the Notre Dame men for assistance in their work. Forty members resi>onded to the appeal and volunteered their help. 
Jade Hoyt and Judge Walsh won the door prizes. A notable figure present was N. J. Nealis, '88, who compared the Notre Dame of today -with the Notre Dame of his day. 
The club had a highly successful outing at the Westchester Country Club on July 28. Jade McGrath, chairman of arrangement com­mittee, attained remarkable success in his guidance of the affair. Ably assisting Jack was his mother, who graciously acted as host­ess in her suite in the clubhouse. The golf tournament prizes were won by Dan Halpin. Gerry Gillespie, Bill Cronin, Jade Hoyt and Henry Frey. 
The club Retreat at the Bishop Malloy Re­treat House. Jamaica, Long Island, was also a distinct success on September 16. 17, IS. Due to new club interest and the magnificent efforts of Father Cosmos ShaughnesSy, di­rector of the Retreat, the attendance this year was almost triple that of last year. The club committee in charge of the Retreat was as follows: Bill Daunt, chairman; Doc Gelson, Drew Sheibler, vice chairmen; Henty Frey, secretary; Ed Neaher, treasurer; Committee­men—Leo McLaa^in, Joe Crotty, Jack Hoyt DIde Donoghne, Master of Ceremonies; Paal Hahalchic, Cy Stroker, Bill Doyle, Flo Mc­Carthy. John Roche, Dan O'Neil. Bill Walsh, Jr^ Nick SmiUu 
The welcome for new Notre Dame students was at, the Centre Club on September 8. Ad­vance announcements listed the following 

as speakers: Father Michael Shea, the co-composer of the "Victory March," William E. Cotter, ex-president of the Alumni Association, and Bill Arnold, *39. To be shown were cam­pus movies and movies of some of the foot­ball games. 
Present at Notre Dame this year as a freshman and holder of the club scholarship is Panl Lillis of the A.B. Davis High school. Mount Vernon, New York. Paul was unani­mously selected by the committee composed of Daniel Higgins, Edw-ard Killeen. Charles Gor­man and William Cotter. 
The annual Array game activity for pro­moting the scholarship fund was intensively under way when this was written. Prizes this year are more attractive than ever before, and a larger result is anticipated. 
The Ncio York Alumnus, the club's new and highly efrecti%'e publication, has been enthus­iastically received by the club members, and on the campus, during the summer. The staff members are to be highly congratulated on their high standard of work. On the masthead are: editors, Jordan Hargrove, Don Sehl, Col­man O'Shanghnessy; business and production, Ed Beckman and Bob Hamilton; stafl", Ed Bartnett, Cy Stroker, Gene Vaslett, Bob Forbes; Art. Larry Culltney, Jim Shea, Ed O'NeilL 
Through the extensive and intensive efforts 

of Secretary Bob Hamilton, the club mailing 
list has been corrected, revised, enlarged, and 
generally improved. Bob has raised the num­
ber of persons on the list from 474 to approxi­
mately 900. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Paul J. Cashing. '31, 1221 Central Bank BIdff.. Oakland. Calif.. President; Paul AL Enright. '31. Central Bank Bldg., Oakland. Calif., Secretary. 
NORTHERN LOUISIANA Arthur J. Kane. '31, 307 Wilkinson, Shrere­port. President; James R. Nowery, '29, 
P. O. Box 1545, Shrc%-eport, Secretary. 

NORTH IOWA 
OKLAHOMA Joseph A. Moran, '32. 1611 S. Carson. Tulsa. President; Marion J. Blakc. '33, National Bank of Tulsa BIdg., Tulsa. Secretary. 
OREGON Barney McNab. *25. Terminal Sales Bldg., Portland. President; Natt McDongall. Jr.. 
•33, 45 S, W. First Avenue. Portland, Sec­retary. 

PARIS Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, New York Herald-Tribnnc, Paris, France, President. 
PEORIA William J. Motsett, '34, 616 Bigelow St. President; Richard H. Delancy, *37, 220 N. Glenwcod, Secretary. 
PHILADELPHIA Clifford E. Prodehl. '32, 6070 Chester Ave.. President; John J. Reilly, ex. '33, Glcn Ave., Laurel Springs, N. J., Secretary. 
Our first meeting of the new season was held on September 13 in the Adelphia Hotel. 
Among the gang were Frank McManns. Walt Ridley. Bill Cooncy, Joe "Ade" Wack­erman. Bill Castellini, Jack Matthews, Jack Kenney,' Cliff Prodehl. Charley McKinney, Conal Byrne, Tom Carroll, and some others including yours truly. A new face — and beaming—was Frank D. "Perc" Connolly, who is now located in Philly with the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company. 
The club has plans in the making for a supsr year. New activities are being outlined, sparked by a fresh enthusiasm among the officers and members. You'll see the results soon> 
One more of our members during the past summer deserted the ranks of bachelordom— Lindsey Phocbas took unto himself a wife last June. Congrats! ! ! 
Jack RciUy. 

PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. HUkert, '22, 402 Title & Tnut BIdr., Phoenix, President. 

RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. John McKieman, '34, 1231 Industrial Tnut Bldg., Providence, R. L, President: Charles Grimes. '20, 47 Nelson St.. Providence, K. I., Secretary. 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
D. Bernard Hennessey, *34. 119 Bedford St . President; Gerard Farrell, '34, 447 Thurston Road, Secretary. After a very successful year from every 

point of view we topped off the season with two very satisfactory meetings this summer. The first was our picnic. This aiTair was almost 100 per cent attended and all who were there will testify to the fact that every­one had a great time. The activities consisted of stvimminj;'. a ball game, food, drink and kindred activities. 
The other convocation was of an opposite nature and purpose. This endeavor was not so well supported, but we hope it will mark the inauguration of on annual event which will grow in popularity each year. This was our first attempt to induce Notre Dame men to attend the diocesan laymen's Ketreat in a group. As the pioneers in this movement, we who attended assure you that it was a very pleasant and very satisfactory experience. 
The following men were nominated by tlie board of governors to lead the club in the coming year: Bill Merriman, '25, and John Dorschel, '31 for president: Bill Bell, '25, and Joe Geraghty, '28, for vice-president; John Norton, '36, and Charles Bragg, '35, for sec­retary; and Marty Bayer, '36. and Larry Car­penter, '34. for treasurer. 
As this is written, our Army game activity is in full swing with every promise of remark­able success. 
Gerry FarrelU 

ROCK RIVER VALLEY (Illinois) 
Ralph F. Heger. '25. 1351 W. Stoner St. Freeport. IlL, President; Robert Dixon, '25, Frecport. HI., Secretary. 

SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomas F. Van Aarle. '21, Standard Oil Co.. Saginaw. Midh.. President; William C Hur­ley. '25, 117 Cherry St . Saginaw, Midi., Secretary, 

SAN ANTONIO 
John A. Bitter, '30, 302 Castano, San Antrnio, President; Dudley R. Walker, Jr., ex. '38, 13S Kathcrine Court San Antonio. Secretary. 

SANDUSKY, OHIO Charles M. Monch. '25. 925 W. Washington Street. President; Russell R. Smith, '28. 2117 Monroe Street, Secretary. 
SCRANTON Robert A. Golden. '32. 216 Colfax Ave.. President; Thomas F. Leahy, '23, 413 Chamber of Commerce B!dg.. Secretary-
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT John C. Redgate. '30. 92 Aldine Avenue, Bdigeport. President; Dr. Thomas J. Tara­sovic. '32, 49 Dover St , Bridgeport, Secre­tary. 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS Oliver Field. '31, lOPy^ S. Walnut Street. President; Walter Bernard. '36, 815 South Walnut Street, Secretary. 
The Springfield Notre Dame Club held its monthly luncheon and meeting in the Knights of Columbus building on September 15. Ten­tative plans for a special train to the North-western-Notre Dame game in Evanston were discussed. 
At the meeting two members were welctftned to the rank of fatherhood. They were OUvcr 
Field, *31, president of the club, who is the 
proud father of a baby girl, and Earl Worth­
inffton. '27, who is also the father of a baby 
girl-
John Kinv, former student at the Univer­

sity, has taken up temporary residence tn 
Springfield. He is a federal auditor. 
Oliver Field has been appointed lecturer of the Knights of Columbus. Walter E. Bernard. 
ST. LOUIS 
Jofcn J. Hobaa. *3€. €32 Voffel Place. East St Loolt. ni., Presklcnt; Paul Bnimkr, ex. '34, 915 Pierce BUs^ Secretary. 

The annual Notre Dame picnic took place Sunday, August 21. at John L. Corley's, '02, country home. It is well to know that the picnic has become an enjoyable tradition in the calendar of events of the club. John Corley was instrumental in establishing this tradition, and his' congenial hospitality is al­ways extended in the true Notre Dame spirit 
Actually the picnic began Saturday after­noon when committees met at Corley's where Dr. Matt Wets, '22. and Bob HcUnus, '30, "slew slaw"; Vince Fefalix, '34, and Gene Stronsr, '34, set up horse shoe pegs and did a bit of preliminary practicing; Al Ravarino. '35, tossed about kettles, pans, spaghetti, etc He really worked. Paul F. Koprowski, '31. blistered under the sun preparing the tennis and badminton courts. Mrs. Corley suixirvised the proceedings and was assisted by Mrs. "Dutch" Wrape. Mrs. Hellrung, Mrs. Fehlis; aand Mrs. KoprowskL 
The picnickers were Notre Dame men and their guests. The rooster flashed these inter­esting bits of news: 
The president of the club John Hoban, *36, 

is a lawyer with the McGlynn firm. Robert T. 
Hellninff, *30, and Mrs. Hellrung have the 
St. Louis Medical Credit Bureau, Inc. Pa«] F. 
Koprowski, '31, is now on the economics fac­
ulty at Notre Dame. Dr. L. Vince GorriJa, '21, 
is practicing in S t Louis. Savino Cavender, 
*35. a senior in medicine at St Louis Univer­
sity. V. H. "Dutch" Wrape, '19, brought alone 
enough spare ribs to last all day. Tom Glynn. 
'17. Is connected w*ith Park-A-Lot Oil Co. in 
S t Louis. Al Ravarino, *35, donated the "bi­
sghetti* from Ravarino and Friske Co.. and 
cooked it all himself. 
Tom Davis, '28, Is a member of the engineer corps of the state of Illinois. Vince Fchlig. '34. is working with the Fehlie Bros. Box and Lumber Co. Gene Strong, '34, is a lawyer with ofllces in the Railway Exchange Building. Panl Bmmby, '35, also is a lawyer with the American Auto Insurance Company. Dick Klohr, *31, is a salesman for the Eagle Pe­troleum Company. Ralph Gaathier. '35. sells for the Certainty Products Corp. Fred McNeil, '36, is connected with Preston J. Bradshaw Architects, Inc. 
Dick Snooks, '36, is In the credit department of the Industrial Bank. Paul and Loois Fchliff. *3l and '37, respectively, are both with the Fchlig Bros. Box and Lumber Co. Pat Mc­Laughlin, '30. Is with Preiss Wibbing & Co. Securities. Dr. J. P. CostcQo, *14. brought his son along with him. Vincent Probst *37. sells brew for the Mound City Brewing Co. of New Athens. Illinois. Bob Rowland, *25. Is in the advertising department of the Missouri Pacific Railroad. Jaraes Fltzpatrick. '29, represents the Seavey and Florsheim Brokerage Co. Vic­tor Carton. '35, is a salesman at the Vitality Shoe Co. John D'Ncil. '34. is at the General 
Motors Acceptance Corporation. 
Fred Switzcr, '28. is an attorney. Joe Yotk, '31. is in business with the Supreme Heater and Ventilating Co. BUI Lealv. '28. is with the ret Milk Company. Carroll Pinkley, '28, is at the First National Bank. Bill Cronk. *28, and Morton J. Lncas, '14, are both at Tower Crove Bank. Morton brought his son, Tom, 
•with him. Dr. Matt Weiss, *20, and his wife brought Mr. and Mrs. Ed. Griesidieck with them. Ed Jr., will be a student at Notre Dame in September. Kow/and Dame, *33. Is with the R. J. Bearings Power Transmissions. Pat Ryan, '29, of the Missouri Agricultural Publishing Company won the attendance prize —a nice big ham. Joe Sn-itzer, '29, of the Switzer Slattery Dry Cleaning Co. George Bruno, '34, is a teacher and coach at Norman­dy High school. Dennis Hickcy, '36, is repre­senting the American Cigaret and Cigar Com­pany. 
There were several students and prospective students present: Hubert Schafly, '41; Ed Griesidieck and Dan Kyan, both of '42; Tom Shields, '40; Warren Hellrunff, '41, and young Dennis Hickey, 3rd, of the class of '59. 
Enthusiastic activity continued throughout the day. Prizes were awarded for badminton, tennis, horseshoes, swimming, lotto, softball, dart throwing and ten attendance prizes were given. Paul Fehlig's alert team defeated Tom McGb'nn's "Happy Losers" in baseball. 
Congratulations are extended to the refresh­ment committee headed by Dutch Wrape and AI Ravirino. There was enough coca-cola, barbequed ribs, spaghetti, cole slaw, pop com, et c to feed an army. 

To wind up a perfectly glorious day. Doc Weiss showed movies of last year's picnic aft­er which the crowd all joined in singing Notre Dame songs. 
Paul F. Koprowski. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) Dillon Patterson. '20, J.>LS. Bldg.. South Bend, Indiana. President; Clarence Harding, *2o. South Bend Tribune. South Bend, Ind., Secretary. 
The directors of the club met in the Colum­bia Athletic Club on September 12, and con­firmed appointment of William E. Voor as general chairman of the club's annual football testimonial banquet. Tentative plans made at the meeting indicate that the banquet will be held in the early part of December. 
The club will continue its practice this year of conducting smokers on the Friday nights before the home football games. John Gibbons and Harry Richwine were made co-chairmen of the Kansas smoker in the Oliver Hotel. When this was written, the location for the other smokers had not been determined. Sec­retary Clarence Harding suggested, however, that visiting alumni could obtain such infor­mation from any of the local hotels. 
As in the past, all visiting alumm are cor­dially invited to attend the smokers, 
SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL N. Y. 
Donald Sheehy, '33, 104 Glahn Av e Syra­
cuse, President; William S. Cate, '27, 136 
Harding Place, Syracuse, Secretary. 
TIFFIN, OHIO 
C J. Schmidt, 'II, 260 I^felmore St,, Presi­dtnt; Fred J. Wagner. '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secrctar>*. 
TOLEDO 
Ray Tillman. '25- 2027 Brctfon Place, Pres­ident; Joe Wctli, '31, 717 Starr Avenue, Secretaiy. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) William G. Yeairer, '34. 18 Vine St., Blng­hamton, N. V., President; James H. Hogan, '34. 62 Mary St-, Binghamton, N. Y., Sec-re tar>-. 
The Notre Dame men of the Triple Cities liave been quite active this summer even though the club itself failed to hold formal meetings, 
Joseph Alphonsus McCormick, '33. is the proud father of a baby girl. Fhonse is man­aging the McCormick- Hotel at the present time. 

And Bill Hogan, '32, is the proud daddy of a baby boy. William Joseph. Bill is teaching at Central High school in this city. , . 
Stewart Osborne, '34, was married recently to Catherine Crimmins at St. Mary's Church in Binghamton, The ceremony was performed by Father Harrison, '33, another Notre Dame man. 
Ted Griffin, '30, former Notre Dame tennis captain, played in the local tournaments this past season. 
Peter J. Wachs, '30, was home for a week­end. Pete is with the Federal Bureau of In­vestigation in New York City. 
Dr. Frank Kane, '29, was married to Miss Helen Callahan of Chicago in the Log Chapel and the ceremony was performed by Father Connerton, C.S.C. Father Connerton is a Triple Cities man. Miss Callahan' attended St. Mar>''s of the Lakes, Joe Kane, '26, is a brother of Frank, is a teacher in the Bing­hamton school system. 
Bob McCabc, '36, attended summer school at Albany State Teachers College-
The club has three additional members as the result of the June graduating class. They are Ed Hogan, brother of Bill, '32, and Jim, *34, Bob Sullivan and Leo Donlin of Endicott. 
Lieutenant Governor DoIIard made a visit to Binghamton recently to see our president. Bill Yager, *34. The purpose of his visit was to urge the members to take an active part in the Rockne Memorial Foundation Fund Drive. 
Jim Hogan. 
TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) George Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples' Light Co., Moline. HI., President; Elmer W. Bcsten, '27, 1711 W. Sixth St., Davenport, Iowa, Secretary. 
TRI-STATE (Ind.-I1L-Ky.) 
E. Brown Miller, '24, Southern Commercial Corp., Citizens Bank Bldg.. EvansvUle. Ind., President; Dr. Wm. J. Endrcss. '25, 301 Grant Street, EvansviUc, Ind., Secretary. 
TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Hengesbach, cx.'27, 1710 E. 2nd St., 
Tucson, President; Ted A. Witz, ex. '29, 
Box 628, Tucson, Secretary. 

Another season rolls around and we find that there have been some changes in the membership. Paul Dufaud, '25, has just re­cently come from Detroit where he was asso­ciated with one of the larger brokerage firms. It has also come to our attention that for more than a year we have had with us Irving Feldman who was in the I.aw School from 1922 to 1924. At present he is associated with the Apache Buick Co. 
Joseph Ryan is reported to be recovering from a major operation in Ann Arbor, Michi­gan. We expect him to be coming back to Tucson for the winter, Steve J. Bielli, from Phoenix, visited his old friends here the other day. Our last meeting was held at the home of Eddie Collins, who seems to be well enough to find fault with everything I'm trying to write. 
Steve Reb?il, who left the ranks of bachel­orhood recently, has just recovered from an operation. Bob Sullivan left recently for a visit in Chicago, his home town before he decided to make Tucson his permanent home. 
Ted Witz. 
Vin Hengesbach sent word that the club had attended Mass and received Holy Communion for the repose of the soul of the late James 
D. Barry, one of the jnost prominent Notre Dame men in the area. Vin also reports that the club had in the making, plans for enter­taining the football team when it stops in Tucson on its way to Los Angeles for the Southern California game. 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) Percy Wilcox, *23, Minneapolis General Elec Co., Minneapolis, Minn., President; Arnold Klein, Jr.. '32, 1612 23th Ave.. No., Minne­
apolu, SccnUry. 
UTAH 
-Ras^mond R. Brady, *24, 206 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Harbecke, '19, 64 F. St, Salt Lake City, SecreUry. 
UTICA, NEW YORK 
Dr. John F. Kelley, '22, Peoples Gas & Elec­tric Bldg.. President: Joseph W. Fnllem, '31, 1621 Neilson St., Secretaary. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Paal Kennedy. '24, Templeton. Ind., Presi­dent: Emmett Ferguson. '32, Wallace Bldg.. Lafayette, Ind., Secretary. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Robert Cavanaueb. '36. 4450 Volta Place. N.W., President; Mttrray A. Russell, Jr., ex., *32, 6606 Bamaby St., N.W„, Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT 
John Robinson, '28, Cheshire, Connecticut. President; James M. Monaghan, '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA 
Ralph Jorden, '26, Bridgeport. Ohio, Presi­dent; Leo J. Kletzly, '31, 10 Zone Street, Wheeling, Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Hagh A. Gallagher, '30, 1501 McFarland Road. Mount Lebanon, President; Donald Martin. '33, 204 S. Graham SL, Pittsburgh, Secretary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 
Thomas E. Meade, '32, 3321 Cascaadia Ave., Seattle, President; August von Baecklin, 
•34, 74 East Road, Tacoma, Secretary. 
WEST VIRGINIA 
Hugh J. Loder, ex., '32, 104 Capitol Street, Charleston, President; John Cacklej-, '37, 1521 Lee St., Charleston, Secretary. 

Plans are rapidly being formed by the club, for an excursion to the Alinnesota game. De­tails of the trip are being handled by Vince Reishman and the writer, along with Judge Arthur Hudson. Some reservations have al­ready been received and it is expected that approximately 100 fans will make the trip. 
A monthly luncheon, every third Wednes­day, is one of the new features of the local club. Attendance has been exceptionally good. Informal nightly meetings, with President Hugh Loder presiding, are usually held every six weeks. 
Bill Kenney, of the Kenncy Pharmacy, has been named laboratory technician on the St. Francis hospital staff in Charleston. Bill re­cently completed a seven weeks' course at Harlem hospital in New York Citj-. 
Pan] Smith, ex-"B" team captain was in town recently with the Hinton High school football squad. He is first assistant to Johnny Worth, a former teammate of Red Grange's at Illinois. Hinton, incidentally, wone the '37 state championship, and Smitty is credited to a large extent in developing one of the best schoolboy lines in this section. 
Jim Malloy is now traveling for the local teelephone company. His territory covers all of West Virginia. Several students in town this summer included Geor^ge Evans, a senior in commerce, and Ed McDonongh, a June graduate. 
John Cacklcy. 
WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME 
Sister Elizabeth Scton. S.a. ML St. Joseph, Ohio, President; Sister M. Angelice. B.V.M,, St. Joseph Convent, Mt. Carmel, Dubuqae. Iowa, Secretary, 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
John Moran, *29. 1348 Qninn, President; Charles Cuhwa, '31, 463 Madera Avenne, Secretary. 

« « «



THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made o£ the fol­lowing engagements: 
Miss Marj* Patricia Kavanaugh, sister of Norbert Kavanaugh. '26, and Bcmanl K. Win­gertcr, '26, of East Orange, New Jersey. 
Miss Rosaleen Giblin and Jerome J. Crow­ley, Jr., '31, of South Bend. 
Miss Mabel Anita Vos and Thomas A. Dwycr, Jr., *34. of Xew York City. 
Miss Kathryn Jane Dolk and Bobert K. Kclley, '34, of South Bend. 

Marriages 
Miss Virginia Bro\\-n and Francis J. Hag­cnbarth. '^T, were married, June 25, in Spo­kane, Washington. 
The marriage of Miss Mary Mildred Greene and Joseph L. Sweeny, '27, took place, August 27, in Lakewood, Ohio. 
Miss Margaret Cosgrove and J. Joseph Langton, '2S, were married, August 9, in Pe­oria, Illinois. 
Miss Helen Claire Callahan and Frank P. Kane, '29, were married, September 10, at Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Marjorie Mahoney and Clifford W. Logan, ex. 'SO. took place. September 15, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Martha EHse Garvy and Paul B. Bel-den, Jr., '32, -were married, July 6, in Chi­cago. 
Miss Jean Goddard Eddy and Frederick E. Carmody, '32, were married, June 20, in Shreveport, Louisiana. 
Bliss .Wanda M, Miller and Paul A. HaajT. ex. '32, were married, July 2, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Julia Jeanctte Gang and William D. Waltz, '32, took place, June 
20. in Canton, Ohio. 
Miss Helen Marie Barcome and John D. Fitzpatrick. '33, were married, September 3, in South Bend. 
Miss Helen Mae Buck and Thomas P. Gal­braith, '32, were married, September 17, in Washington, D. C. 
Miss Marie Schirmer and Phillip G^ohegan. '33, were married, July 2, in the I*og Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Loretta Margaret Callahan and Anthony W. Wirry, '33, took place, August 10, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Margaret Katherine McMeel and Dr. Joseph R. Caton, es. *34, were married, Sep­tember 3, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Frances Gertrude Le>'es and Edwin J. Holman, '34, took place, July 18, in South Bend. 

The marriage of Miss iKiuise Willard and James 0*Sullt%'an Keams, *34. took place. July 6, in Highland Park, Illinois. 
Miss Mary Theresa McGorem and Robert 

P. Carter. Jr., '35, were married, June 4, in South Orange, New Jersey. 
Miss Gertrude Reinl and Raymond 3L Ger­cnd, ex. '35, were married, July 9, in Sheboy­gan, Wisconsin. 
The marriage of Miss Marian Hanton and Paul Halbert, '35, took place, September 3. in Weedsport, New York. 
Miss Ava Marie Ottman and William A. Kennedy, '35, were married, June 25, in Brooklyn, New York. 
The marriage of Miss Glorai Kay Schnefer and James A. Marohn. '35, took place, August 20, in Pittsburgh. 
Miss Mary Ellen Chrisman and Eugene L. O'Brien, '35, were married, September 24, in South Bend. 
Miss Sadie Futman and Edward Ott, ex. *35, were married, July 25, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Elizabeth Ann Put-man and John T. Raincy, *35, took place, June IS, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Elizabeth Jean Detwiller and Robert 

F. Rogers, '35, were married, September G, in Belle Harlxjr, New York. 
aiiss Dorothy Frances Walsh and Daniel J. Youngcrman. '35, were married, August 6, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Marie Cooney, niece of Dr. John M. Cooney, and George Lcycs, '36, were married, August 20, in San Francisco. 
Miss Philomena Friedrich and W. James McCralcy, '36, were married, August 27, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Audrie Peterson and Frank Wade. '36, took place, June IS, in South Bend. 
Miss Margaret O'Connell and J. Harold Marr, '37, were married, July 16, in Waltham, Massachusetts. 
Miss Marcella Leding and Lawrence Weiss, '37, were married, September 5, in Liberty-ville, Illinois. 
Miss Jeanette May Hagquist and Richard 

W. Dice, '37, were married, September 17, in South Bend. 
The marriage of Miss Betty Marie Goss and Robert C. Kent, ex. '38, took place, August 6, in South Bend. 
Miss Dorothy Rezek and Andrew J, Pnplis. '38. were married September 3, in Chicago. 
Miss Virginia May Bachtel and Richard P. Kuehn, ex. '39. were married, August 20, in South Bend. 
Miss Martha B. Garbonell and Thomas V. J, Brennui, ex. '40, were married, June 29, in Key West, Florida. 
Miss Helen G. Ussher and FranUin J, Tor­ribio, summer session of 1935-36-37, were mar­ried, June 7, in Trinidad, Colorado. 
Miss Annette Frank and Arthnr B, Dcmby, ex. '31, were married. September 8, in South Bend. 
Miss Mary Elizabeth Seebirt and Larned G. Bradford, ex. *33, were married, September 8, in South Bend. 
Miss Mary Black and Joseph G. Rotondo. ex. '39, were married, June 8, in Columbus, Ohio. 
The marriage of Miss Dorothy Louise Schramm and Edward E. Potter, *38, took place. September 5, in Toledo, Ohio. 

Births 
A son, Thomas J., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Joseph B. McGlynn, '12. on July 6, in East St. Louis, Illinois. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Buckley, '24, on July 1, in Chicago. 
A daughter, Marie Elaine, their ninth child, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Robert B- Riordan, '24, on July 21. in South Bend. 
The student promotion division of the Alumni Office took on ne%v authority on Sep­tember 4 when Mr. and Mrs. James E. Arm­strong, '25, became the parents of their fourth son, Gregory Scott. No score for St, Mary's! 
Mr. and Sirs. Anselm D. Sliller, '25, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Anne Living­ston, on August 2, in Roanoke, Virginia. 
A son, Michael Anthony, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Maurice A. Weber, ex. '25. of St. Joseph, Michigan, in July, 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Dnnn. '27. announce the birth of a sou, Thomas Bernard, on June 
24. in Morris, Illinois. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs, Joseph O'DonneU, '27, on July 11, in Chicago. 
A daughter, Barbara Anne, was bom to jMr. and Mrs. Earl C. Worthincton, *27, on July 27. in Springfield, Illinois. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Powers, Jr.. '29, in July, in Edgewood. Rhode Island. 
A son, Paul Anthony, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Bertsdi. *29, on July 14, in Akron, Ohio. 
A daugher, Barbara Ellen, was horn to Mr. and Mrs. James C Costello, '30, on May 13, in East Orange, New Jersey. 
A daughter. Mary Eleanor, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John G. O'Kecfe, Jr., '30. on Octo­ber 3. 1937. in Verona. New Jersey. 
Mr. and Mrs. J. Franklin O'Marah, *30, announce the birth of a daughter, Diane Kath­leen, on June 27, in Buffalo, New York. 
Mr.- and Mrs. Fred D. Schoppman, '30. an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Patncia Jane, on June 23, in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Rudo^h £. Sturm, '30. an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Judith Ann. on September 8, in Jasper, Indiana. 
A daughter, Barbara Hess, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Alois J. Welzcnbach, '30, in Peoria, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard J. Dericks, *31, an­nounce the birth of a son, Richard Arthur, on April 22, in Paterson, New Jersej*. 
A daughter, Ann Florence, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Neil C Hurley, '32, in River Forest, Illinois. 
A daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. John HcGrath, '32. on September 7, in South Bend. 
Twins, a boy and girl, were bom to Mr. and Mrs. Marchmont Schwartz, *32, on Sep­tember 14, in Omaha, Nebraska. 
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice J. DcWald, '33, an­nouncc the birth of a daughter, Antoinette, on July 26, in Fort Wayne. Indiana. 
A son, George Thomas, was born to Mr. and Mrs. Edwin W. Kenefake, '34, on July 29, in Robinson, Illinois. 
Mr. and Mrs. Francis G. Kcllncr, '36, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Margaret Loretto, on July 15, in Buffalo. New York. 
A son, Anthony Vincent, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Charles M. Pieroni, '36, on June 10, in Muncie. Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Philip R. Bcndi, *37, announce the birth of a son, Philip Underwood, on June 30, in Milwaukee. Wisconsin. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ralph £. Rogers, '34, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Marjorie Jean, on May 5, in XJma, Peru. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hartroan, '32, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, in July, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. George Beamer, '29, on September 6, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. David J. Paskwietz, '34, an­nounce the birth of twins, a boy and a girl, on September 22, in Whiting, Indiana. 

DeofAs 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to John J. Doyle, '3S, upon the death of his father; John J. Kane, '25. upon the death of his mother; John F. 3IaIdoon, ex. *29, upon the death of his mother; Edward Grotty, '37, upon the death of his father; Edward J. Mur­ray, '31, upon the death of his brother. 
Rev. Francis J. Bocrcs, C.S.C, '82, second oldest member of the Order, died in St. John's Hospital, Anderson, Indiana, on Sep­tember 13. After spending 40 years in the missions of India and the Philippines, Father Boeres was made chaplain of Cathedral High school. Indianapolis, his final assignment. He observed his golden jubilee as a priest in 1936. 
Mail which was returned unclaimed made known the death of Rev. Elmer Alphonsus Otis. SJ., '84, of St. Stanislaus College, Ma­con, Georgia. 
The ALUMNUS leamed just recently of the death several months ago of Geoi^e Tra­ccy, Burlington, Iowa, a student in 1880-81. 
News of the death of John L Kleiber, '87. Brownsville, Texas, was sent to the ALUM­NUS hy Michael O. Bums, '86. There were no details as to time and place. 
EUen Ryan JoUy, LL.D., '18, devoted friend of Notre Dame, first woman to receive an honorarj' degree from the Unii'ersity, recipi­ent of the Papal Cross bestowed upon her by Pope Pius XI and internationally famous for her book, "Nuns of the Battlefield," died July 30 at the age of 85 in the home of her son, John R. Jolly, ex. '22, Pawtucket, Rhode Island. During her distinguished life, Mrs. Jolly was active in civic and state affairs and was prominent in the w^ork of the Ladies Auxiliary of the Ancient Order of Hibernians of which she was national president for two terms. Nearest her heart, however, was the mission of gaining recognition for the nuns who ser\*ed as nurses in the Civil War and Spanish-American wars. Largely through her efforts a monument to the nuns of the Civil War battlefields was erected in Washington, D.C. 
James D. Barry, '97, distinguished attorney and scholar in Tucson, Arizona, former mem* ber of the English faculty at Notre Dame, died in Tucson on June 30 following a major operation earlier in the day. Surviving him. besides Mrs. Barry and a daughter, is Frank 
J. Barr>', '03, of Los Angeles. Also surviving are a sister. Mother Gerald, Adrian, Michigan, mother general of the Dominican Sisters in the United States, and several priestly broth­ers. Most Rev. Patrick Barry, bishop of St. Augustine, Florida; Msgr. William Barry, Miami Beach, Florida, and Rev. Joseph Barry, diocese of Limerick. Ireland. 
Mr. Barry taught at Notre Dame immedi­ately after his graduation. Successively, he later did newspaper work in Chicago, served as superintendent of schools in the Philip­pines, as civil service examiner in Washing­ton, D. C. and studied law at Georgetown University. He practiced law in San Diego. California, Nogales, Arizona and Tucson. 
Joseph Patrick O'Ncil, '83, Portland. Ore­gon, retired brigadier general in the United States Army, died on July 27. General O'Neil was active in fighting the Indians in the old West and took part in the Spanish-American War, the Philippine insurrection and the fighting on the Mexican border. 
In later years. General O'Neil trained and commanded the 179th Oklahoma regiment in the World War and, after the Armistice, commanded the 90th division, the Army of Occupation in Germany. After the war he was active in Army personnel work before he retired from active seni-ice 12 years ago. Sur­viving are Mrs. O'Neil, and two sisters. 
William C Daly, Nevr York City, a student at Notre Dame in the 80*s, died on June 23 after a three weeks* illness. Mr. Daly was 70 years old and had practiced law in New York for 35 years. 
Francis Godfroy, 77 years old. last chief of the Miami Indian tribe, a student at Notre Dame from 1880 to 1884. died in a hospital in Peru, Indiana, on June 28. Chosen as chief of the Miamis last January, the former student was the son of Chief Gabriel Godfroy and the grandson of Chief Francis Godfroy. last war chief of the Miamis. 
Francis J. O'Hara. '99. professor of eco­nomics at the Catholic University, Washing­ton, D.C., died on July 30 after a month's 
illness. In 1905-07 Professor O'Hora tau^t econonUcs at Notre Dame. \Videly known as an authority in this field, he also was prom­inently active in the Knights of Columbus and organized the Kniglits of Columbus Evening Sdiool, now Columbus University, in Wash­ington. He was dean of the School of Phil­osophy at Catholic University from 1920 to 1924 and was a leading figure In the organ­isation and guidance of parish credit unions. Professor O'Hara is survived by his wife, two sisters and four brothers. One of the broth­ers is Most Rev. E. V. O'Hara, LL.D., '17, bishop of Great Falls, Montana. 
Edward F. O'Flynn, '07. Seattle, Washing­ton, died in the early part of the present year, according to recent information from Seattle. 
niomai J. Shanghnessy, *15, Chicago, well known as a varsity athlete at Notre Dame and later as a prominent figure in professional hockey in Chicago and Detroit, died in Chi­cago on September 20. Tom, an attorney in Chicago, was president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago in 1919 and 1920. He was a nephew- of Zxird Shnughnessy. who was knighted for his service in building the rail­roads of Canada. 
Richard A. Meyer. '26, Chicago, is dead, according to information received from John Probst. Details as to the date and place of his death are lacking. 
Sutcr Rose Bernard, C.S.C^ a Summer School student in 1923 and 1927, died at her mission post in India on August 15. the thir­teenth anniversary of her profession in the Holy Cross order. 

Sister H. Joseph. O.S.U., MJL, '22. is also dead, according to information brought to ths ' campus by Sisters returning in the summer 
just past. 
Rev. E. P. Slurphy. Portland. Oregon, an ardent and generous friend of Notre Dame, died on June 30. Father Murphy was bom in Ireland on September 17, 1866 and was ordained on July 31, 1S92. 
Alfred C Dent, New York City, a student in 1904, died in 1937, according to recent in­formation. 

Dennis F. Kelly. LI«.D., '30. Commencement speaker in 1937. died in Bergen. Norway, on . July 23 of pneumonia. He was 69 years old. 
Devoted leader in Chicago's civic gro^vtb, organizer and head of the Catholic Charities in the archdiocese of Chicago, three timss knighted by the Papacy, Mr. Kelly was at the same time a generous benefactor and un­derstanding friend of Notre Dame. Beginning life as a poor boy. he achieved phenomenal business success in Chicago. He retired from his position as president of The Fair store on State Street only last April and anticipated then continuation of his civic, charitable and church work upon returning from Europe. 
Daniel N. O'Shea, ex. *30. Waukegan, Illi­nois, died in early August. News of the death was sent to Father John F. O'Hara, president of the University. 
Walter L. For, Newark. Ohio, a student in 1936-37 died on September 18, according to a note on the daily "Religious Bulletin." 
Samnel Insnll. LL.D.. *26, died suddenly in Paris within the summer. 
Raymond J. Danda. '31, Rockford,. Illinois, was drowned in Lake Geneva, Lake Geneva. Wisconsin, on July 10. Surviving Ray are his wife, a daughter, his parents and a brother, Lawrence, ex. '33, JoUet. Illinois. The burial was in Rockford. 
Sam Applegate, *06. whose latest address in the alumni records vv-s 309 West Marion Street. South Bend, is dead, according to a notation on mail returned unclaimed by the post office. 

AdrUn R. Tark. Kankakee, Illinois, a stu­dent in 1934-35, was killed in an automobile accident in Kankakee on September 11. 
Raymond Dixon, South Bend, a student in 1929-30. died on June 27 after being shot, in his capacity as an Indiana state policeman, by bandits with whom he came in contact near LaForte. Indiana. The tragic shooting and subsequent chase and capture of the bandits attracted national attention. 
John T. McGreevy. whose latest address on the alumni records was Hotel Duluth. Duluth, Minnesota, is dead. This information was made known when mail was returned un­claimed. 
Personals 
Before 1880 fT^'^L^.^r ''• M ''''*• 
lagher, Fitchbnre, Mass. 1 ftAn - 1AR S SecreUry: Prof. Robert IL XOOU Aoo a Anderson, Circleville. Ohio. 
188 6 ^cntary: Michael O. Bums. 338 S. Second St.. Hamilton, Ohio. 
188 7 - 188 8 Secretary: J. L. Heineman. Connersvtlle. Indiana. 
188 9 Secretary: P. E. Burke. 301 Camp New Orleans. Louisiana. 
1890-189 3 Secretary: Louis P. Chute, 7 Univ. Ave.. SUnneapoIis. Minn. 
Frederick William Wile, columnist and for­eign editor of the Washington Star, and Mrs. Wile, enjoyed a vacation on Nantucket Island this summer, which, in the light of current events, provided Mr- Wile with a timely breathing spell. 
189 4 SecreUry: Hush A; O'Donnell. 1 W. 67th St. New York City. 
The class, and ALUMNUS readers general­ly, will enjoy the following from Hugh O'Donnell fully as much as the 'editors, and many others on the campus, have enjoyed it: 
"I have your card regarding the ALUMNUS notes. I have been abroad most of the sum­mer, therefore not very much in touch with 
•Notre Dame men, particularly people of my class. In fact most of them are so far on in years that I have little contact with them. 
"I wish you had been along with me to Scandinavia and Russia. In Copenhagen I visited Elsinorc where Hamlet's father's ghost used to walk and, through another reference from Hamlet, I enjoyed Helsingfore. It was from there that Hamlet's friends came to visit him. Copenhagen was made dear to me by the fact that my teacher of English when a boy at Notre Dame University, Maurice Fran­cis Egan. was for eleven years minister pleni­potentiary to Denmark. In Stockholm there is just finished the most remarkable theatre in the world. One can actually set at the same time 51 scenes on its stage. Right across from it is another municipal owned concert hall of superb acoustics and a marvelous pipe organ which was played for us. 
"The Crown Prince of Sweden with his Prin­cess and their son, Bertil, went to Gothenburg with us. The Americans had given them three cars, so they motored to Copenhagen. When we visited their summer palace they were at their winter palace and when we visited their winter palace they were at their summer pal­ace. So. we were successful in eluding* each other. 
"As for Russia—^T love the city of the Czars but the city is merely the remains of old decency. But I met Prince Eusopof at The New York Times some years ago and. while I had seen his palace outside of Moscow a few years ago when I was there, I want(^ to see his Leningrad palace where he killed Rasputin. For some reasons the Russians do not care to show it to visitors but I finally saw it, I also met at the New York Timea. Kerensky who was once president of the Pro* vincial Government. As I was leaving New York this time he was giving lectures at Carnegie Hall. You should read Carveth Wells book Kapoot. It pictures rather photograph­ically the horrors of Rtissia and the absolute despair of the masses, and the 'liquidation' of some towns because of little agitations. In one place he tells about a tot of little children in the mud bottom of a burgh on their hands and knees eating grass, and of a mother with two babies at her breasts. She was barely breathing herself. One baby was dead be­
cause of no nourishment and the other was putting up a fight for life... -" 
189 5 Secretary: Eustace Cnllinan, Sr., 1401 Mills Tower, San Francisco, Calif. 
189 6 Secretary: William P. Bums, 327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City, Indiana. 
189 7 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamam, St. Jos. Sanitarium, Mt. Clemens, Alidu 
Father MacNamara is back at Mt, Clemens headquarters after a session in the East dur­ing the final part of which he ran into many of the flood difiiculties. Father earlier in the summer had a very pleasant two weeks at Mt. Clemens with Sherman Steele. The two of them hadn't seen each other in 30 years. 
189 8 Secretary: William C. Kegler, 9th & Sycamore Sts. Cincinnati. Ohio. 
189 9 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 41S Jeflcrson Blvd., Peotia, IIL 
1900 
lOn i Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan. 1300, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, lU. 
A letter from Will H. Tiemey, 5716 17th Ave., N. E., Seattle, Washington, is most in­teresting: "... . While attending a retreat at St. Martin's College, I met a young Filipino. He was educated near Manila. I told him that two of my classmates went there to teach. John O'Hara and Anthony Brogan. He told me that Brogan was his teacher. He de­scribed Anthony's work and told me how his pupils like him. An hour later I met Bro­gan's brother, who is a merchant here in Seattle. The brother, J. P. Brogan. had no news of Anthony.... Father Tim Murphy told me some tale of a marriage and a residence in Spain as Don Brogano, but I do not recall that his story was meant seriously.... Second, I received a very interesting pamphlet. Off the Beaten Path, from Father (George) Marr. It brought back many memories to me... . Third, Ambrose O'Connell, came over and spent a few hours with a score or more of the old Notre Dame boys, just prior to leav­ing for Alaska. It is quite remarkable to see how a visit from Notre Dame revives our spirits and carries us back, in fancy, to re­live some of the days of happy carelessness we love to recanll.... I particularly would like to hear about Brogan." (Ed note: Bro­gan has been in our "unclaimed" file for a number of years.) 
190 2 SecreUry: & C Mitchell, 110 South Dearborn SU Box 3, Chicago^ IIL 
190 3 Secretary: Francis P. Burke, 901 " Trust Co. BIdg., Milwaukee. Wis, 
190 4 Secretary: Robert E. Proctor, Monger x^v Y Bldg., Elkhart, Indiana. 
lOn e Secretary: Dante] J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, HL 190 6 SecretMj: Ttoiua A. Lrfly, 811-W Fulaen BU c Spekue WaA. 
£. BI. Sbnii^ who is actinE as ghaiTT^j^n of the advisory committee of the Rockne Mem­orial in the St. Joseph Valley area, added to his varied interests this summer when the Associates Investment Commuay took over the Cole Brothers-Clyde Beatty Circus, which headquarters in Rochester, Indiana. 
190 7 Secretary: Ker. TlMnua E. Ba^e, CS.C., Notre Daae, Ind. 
' Amfcrow O'ConneU added to his many laur­els by appointment recently as second assistant postmaster general of the United States, ef­fective October 1, Ambrose had been acting as 5i>ecial and executive assistant to PJff, General James A. Farley, previous to the promotion, which places him in charge of the United States rural mail service, and all mail trans­portation. 
A note from S. Paal Skahen early in the summer reveals that Paul is commissioner of securities of the State of Minnesota. 
190 8 SecreUry: Frank X Cull. Bnlkky Bnildinr. develand. Ohio. 
190 9 SecreUry: E, P. Heary, Notre Dame, Indians. 
Paul R. Martin, who has assumed his double name of Paul R. Hartin-DiUon for pro­fessional purposes, is now the occupant of a very important office of the N.C.W.C,. created during the summer. Paul is director of a central Catholic office of information set up by the Bishops at 1312 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington. Two major purposes mo­tivate the new office. One is the wider dis­tribution of Catholic information to national ne\vs and radio agencies. Second is the pro­motion of the organization of the laity, undar diocesan and parochial direction, to carry on information ser\*ices which will bring Cath­olic knowledge to non-Catholics. The oflice is an outgrowth, to some extent, of the Georgia Laymen's Association, of which Ridiard Reid. Laetare Medalist, has been the guiding genius. Paul's experience as a newspaper man, public relations counsel, and author, fits him ad­mirably for the new position. 
191 0 Secretary: Rer. BI. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Av e CfeTcIand. Ohio. 
A recent feature story in the local press revealed the growth from a hobby to a pro­fession, almost, of the botanical and entom­ological studies of the Rev. Peter Hebert, 
C.S.C. Father Hebert, the story reiates, was let into the subjects by way of his major field, the teaching of the classics in Latin. From association with the late Father Julius Nieawland he soon passed leom amateur to recognized authority and author in the field of botany, and has recently launched his ca­reer as entomologist with an exhibit attract* ing widespread favorable comment. 
191 1 SecreUry: Fred Steers. 166fi First National Bank BMr-, CWeajo, IIL Ed Ficel was among the alumni-parents on the campus at the opening of the school year. The father of nine, Ed qualifies for a growing gallery of unsung heroes whose exploits in everyday life challenge attention which the ALU&INUS would like very much to answer much more adequately. 
191 2 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth 
St. Pittsfcaivh. Pa. 

191 3 Secretary: Jaraca J. Dcvitt. 921 En-
Cinccrs* Bld».. CleTeland. Ohio. 

Andrew T. Dnrfcin, Kenton. Ohio, appears on a summer letterhead as candidate for the SUte Senatorship of the 13th-31st Senatorial district of Ohio. 
2914 Secretao-: Frank H. Ha>es. 406 Bank of America Building. Anaheim, Caltf. 
At last reports to the ALUMNUS from un­official sources, Ray T. Slillcr was in the midst of a. political campatem as chairman of the Democratic county organization in Cleve­land. 
Dr, D. M. Niffro had a most gratifyinE experience, according to newspapar clipping. Doc presented an "iron lung" to St- Vincent's Maternity Hospital in Kansas City, in mem­ory of his father. This summer one of the Doctor's own cases permitted him to save an infant's life bj- the use of this generous bene­faction. It -was the thirtieth life so saved. Bob Niffro. son of the Doctor, is a pre-Medic freshman at N. D. this Fall. 
1915 Secretary-: James E. Sanford, 1324 Farwell Ave, Chicago, 111. 
1916 SecreUrs-: Timothy P. Galvin. First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Ind. 
Inspired by the Lay Retreat on the campus the class secretar>- (who is a supreme director of the K. of C.) surprised the Alumni Office shortly thereafter with this grand news: 
**During the course of the recent supreme convention of the Knights of Columbus in Cincinnati, Raymond McAdams and myself myself met in an elevator. It was the first-time we had seen each other since McAdams left Kotre Dame at the end of his sophomore year in June of 1914, but 24 years had failed to take any enthusiasm from the greetings that followed instantaneous recognition on the part of each of us. It really is a thrill to meet an aid classmate from Notre Dame un­expectedly in a hotel eIe\*ator after almost a quarter century has passed, and you may be sura that McAdams and myself enjoyed that thrill to the utmost. 
"For the purpose of the records, you can adrisa the class of 191G that Raymond Mc­Adams, a student from Penn Van, New York, in 1912-14. is now located in St. Petersburg. Florida, and that his address is Eauitable Building, in that city. McAdams spends his winters in Florida, and his summers in Lex­
ington, Kentuckj-, the old home of Mrs. Mc­Adams. The years have dealt kindly with Ray and he is full of the youthful enthusiasm that made him one of the best liked members of the class of I9I6 during our freshman and sophomore years. He is now grand knight of St. Petersburg Council, K. of C. and is en­gaged in the real estate business in that city. 
"Early in June I had occasion to be in Los Angeles on business and took advantage of the opportunity to renew my acquaintance with George DcWald McDonald, LL.B.. *16. It was the first tmie I had seen my former debating teammate in about 15 years, but I found that the years have dealt kindly with him also. We enjoyed a lunch together during which the food was greatly neglected as we ran over the names of our old friends and associates at Notre Dame. DeWald desarted 

. the law a number of years ago and has be­come a successful business man on the west coast. He told me his brother, Breen, LL.B., *17, and his brother James of later years at Notre Dame, are associated with his firm. Breen is located in San Francisco, and James in Chicago. DeWald sent his greetings to all of his old friends of the class of 1916." 
Russell H. Downey was re-elected president of the South Bend school board this summer. Mr. Downey was reappointed to the board by Maj'or Frej-ermuth for a four-year term. 
IQI7 Secretary-: Edward J. McOskcr, 104 
S. Union St.. Elgin, 111. 
John Urban Riley recently emerged as the author of an article in Printer's Ink for 
The-Notre Dame Alumnus 
August 25, on building good will between in­dustrj- and community. John is now an associate of Stoddard & Co., public relations counsel, Boston. 
2Q1g Sccrctaty: John A. Lcmmer. 1210— 8th Ave., Escanaba, Michiffsn. 
291 9 Secretary: Clarence Bmder, fi50 Pierce Street, Gary, Indiana. 
1920 Secretary: Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black Bldff., Los Angeles, Calif. 
1921 Secretary: Dan Vt\ Duffy, 1600 Ter­minal Tower, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Alfred N. Slaggcrt, newly elected lieutenant-governor of the Michigan alumni district, is recovering from injuries received in an auto­mobile aaccident, Al practices law in Detroit, convalescence in Saginaw. 
1922 Secretary: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­letic Club, Buffalo, New York 
"Kid Athe comes through again for you. He writes: 
"The place of honor this month goes to David Worth Clark who recently was nom­inated as Democratic candidate for U. S. sen­ator for the State of Idaho. It is the highest honor yet attained by any of our classmates in the field of politics. We regret, in the present instance at least, that we do not live in Idaho so as to lend a helping' hand to Dave to put him where he belongs—in the U. S. Senate. 
"Charlie Hirschbuhl. accompanied by Mrs. Hirschbuhl, and daughters, Margaret and Jo­hann, took an auto trip through the East this summer calling at Notre Dame about Com­mencement time, and later calling at Buffalo, Washington, Philadelphia and New York, be­fore travelling westward through the South and Southwest on the return trip to Portland, Oregon. Since Charlie w-cre smoked glasses on his tour, he still thinks there is no place like Portland. 
"Last spring, in Meridan, Connecticut was held one gala gathering to celebrate the eightieth birthday of the mother of CIcte Lynch, Al Ficks was up from New York as were many other classmates and friends to pay their respects to Mrs. Lynch. 
"Vince Hanrahan is back in the States aft­er a long sojourn in Central Amcrica­"Anthony Schiavone is in the banking busi­ness in Chicago. 
"Morgan Shccdy attended the Eucharistic Congress in Budapest last summer." 
William A. A. Castcl'ini was one of the gue5t speakers in the magazine writing class of the Journalism Summer School. Bill is the very effective public relations counsel of the Franklin Institute. Philadelphia. 
Clarcnire E. "Fat" Manion is keeping one foot on most of the speaking platforms in Indiana these days, between law classes and his work as Indiana director of the NEC. Pat has lost none of his eloquence and has become the outstanding defender of the funda­mental principles. These were splendidly em­bodied in his address to the Summer Session Commen cement. 
1923 Sc'cretao-: Paul H. Castner, 17 Cor­nell Road, West Hartford. Conn. 
1924 ?«<^«*a'>'- J-^- Hayes, Wm. J. Ped­rick and Co.. International BuiMing, RocfcefeUcr Center, New York City. John S. Brennan, former professor of Eng­lish, who is assisting Frank £. Herinff as edi­tor of The Eagles Magazine^ is also president of the local Aerie, and attended -the Gmnd Aerie Convention this summer in Cincinnati. 
October. 1938 
John was also recently made a member of the South Bend Rotary Club. 
1925 Sccretaiy: John P. Hurley, S085 a.^^*M Brookdalc Road. Toledo, Ohio. Noble Kizer, looking good, but under doc­tor's orders to stay away from his own Pur­due football games, which Mai Elward seems to be taking pretty good care of anyhow, is a welcome visitor on the N. D. campus, re­laxing as he watches his teammates sweat and fron*n. Nobe continues as athletic direct­or for the Boilermakers. 
Dr. Cornelius Hagcrty has added coroner's physician to the complexities of his medical practice in Chicago. 
Harold "Max" Carey is telegraph editor of the Joliet (Illinois) IIcrald-Ncws. 
Hustling Hurley presents you with the following: 
"Thanks to the ladies' auxiliary of the Class of *25, I have a wee bit of news from Katherj-ine Hall concerning the Harold Halls of Richmond, Virginia. They want Elmer Layden to know that they now have a com­plete backficld. The quarterback arrived this summer so the older brothers, Richard. Doug­las and Geoffrey will be ready for spring prac­tice in 1955. 
"Walter Haccker was in Toledo for a short time, but on a sad mission; his mother passed away last month. Ray Tillman called last night and is trying to get the Toledo Notre Dame Club together long enough to have an election to release himself of the president's chair. Ray was quite ill this summer but is back on his feet and waiting for the railroads to order carloads of equipment to Jc&p the Unitcast Corporation going full blast. Ray is in business with bis brothers. 
"Ray Cunningham is building a new home in Birmingham, a suburb of Dettrolt. It will be a beauty situated on River Rouge. Ray is bound to have a home to come back to anj^vay. His business with Moffett Studio keeps him in Florida during the winter months and the northern Michigan summer resorts engage him during July and August. Bud Stillman and Frank McGinnis, both of the class of '24, will be neighbors of Ray in Birm­ingham. Bud, Ray, Frank and I spent a week-end together this summer at Catawba Bench on Lake Erie. Bud is a manufacturer's agent in business with his brother-in-law and Frank is doing advertising with Polk and Company of Detroit. (Jim Hayes, '24 Secre­tary, you're welcome to the '24 news.) 
"Let's hear from Honorable Vincent Har­rington advising us of what's what in Wash­ington—and from Leonard Hess of San An­tonio. Maybe Hank Wurzer can throw some light on the Iowa section. If you want news about your classmates, you have to write about yourself. And don't be bashful." 
1926 Secretary: James A. Ronan, 127 N. Dearborn St.. Chicago, Illinois. The able and efficient Mr. Ronan has every­thing to help you—if you'll only help him. He says: Mr. Doolcy: "The summer months have gone by with little or no rcjsponse to our plea for news con­cerning the doings of the members of the Class of 1926. Maybe the mailbox at your end contains an item or two—^I hope, I hope. I hope. Or maybe the boys are waiting until the football season starts and are planning to drop in and give you the dope in person. At any rate, hope springs eternal! 
"My major item of the month concerns your old friend and fellow-journalist. Gerald Vin­cent McDermott. Late in July,, Gerrj- was named -manager of the General Outdoor Ad­vcrtisins Company's sizeable plant in Louis­ville, Kentucky. On August 1 he left w^ilh the whole family (including that blue-ribbon German shepherd dog) and has taken up permanent residence in a suburb ot X>ouisvilIc. A postcard from him Jast week brings word that he is spending a few days in New York, 'giving Joe Shea a break' by staying at the Pennsylvania Hotel. Joe, you know, is the big Statlcr man in Detroit. 

"Rev. Keithen L. Roche stopped over for a few hours in Chicago en route from Hav«na, Illinois, to Marquette, Michigan. Illness forced him to take a leave of absence from his parish in Havana. He is now enjoying a rest cure in St. Francis Hospital, Marquette, Mich­igan. A word or two from some of his friends might help pass the time. The illness is noth­ing serious and 'Keith* expects to be back down the river* before the ducks fly." 
Frank Klein, after 10 years with the Peoria (Illinois) Journal-Transcript, is on the copy desk of the St. Louis Globc-Dcmocrat. Frank is living in St. Louis with his wife and son. 
Brother Justin, C.F.X., who received his 

A.M. in 192C from the N. D. Summer School, obsen*ed bis golden jubilee at St. Joseph's College, Bardstown, Ky., on August IG. 
The late W. I>. "Hosan" Morrissey, widely known and admired member of the Boy Guid­ance class of 1926. was honored on August 21 at Fort Scott Camp, 20 miles from Cin­cinnati, which he directed from 192S to 1936. 
A gatehouse and entrance to the camp, artistic and practical, was dedicated in his memory. In the dedicatory address Rt. Rev. Marcellus Wagner, director of the Camp, praised Hogan as a practical Catholic, a leader of men whose influence for the good and better things in life made him outstanding among the laity of the Archdiocese of Cinciinnati. Rev. John O'Connell, C.S.C., '30, now in charge of the students pursuing courses in social work, represented the University at the ceremony of dedication. 
2Q97 Secretaries: Joseph M. Boland, Ath­letic Oflice. Kotrc Dame. Ind.; Ed­mund DeCicrq, 7129 So. Park Ave. Chicago. 
This is "Shadow" Boland presenting the Coaches Cry Hour from Station ^VET: 
"After the summer's balmy days, playing golf on the University course and swimming in the lake on torrid afternoons, it "doesn't seem real to he back at football practice and to l>e receiving cards from Bill Dooley for the first allotment of information on the '27 class. However, it probably will be a blessing in disguise for me to take my mind off foot­ball for a time and search the memory for recent *chcck-ins* — remind me to tell you about that football team, later, and be sure to have a towel handy! 
"Maurice 'Paddy' Cohen checked in by way of letter from Taunton, Mass., where the ro­tund laddy is teaching Latin to the younger element ot his fair city. His letter remindetl us that word hadn't been forthcoming lately on Leo McCauley—a check-in from that lad would be appreciated. From the New England region, by way of unofficial nev.-s reception, Frank 'Dutch' Holland is reputed to have signed with Grace Line for the next three years for ser\-ice in the Canal Zone: and if we're wrong, Dutch had better correct us himself.... from the Canal Zone or Boston! 
"According to the informahts of this cor­ner, Tom Nash recently became a benedict and will practice staying home nights from now on. The Chicago contingent of McLaugh­lin, Rogers, Delia Maria and McClory will probably see more of Tom from now on, at that. Mention of McClory's name reminds us that the young chappie took himself a trip abroad recently, on a purely pleasure basis: with current news from Europe, he'd better get home riitiu pronto, or he'll be heiling Hitler! 
"Pat Canny made his early fall check-up on the football prospects and present athletic equipment room when he dropped in recently at the campus; looks fine, still 'telling them,' and is planning his law cases for the Erie railroad so that he can be in New York, Chicago, and Atlanta conveniently during the fall. 
"According to word from St. Paul, Frank Mayer and Art Sullivan have organized their Minnesota division of the Doxvntown Coaches Association, and will direct Irish strategy with volunteer assistance up until the Minne­sota game, when they expect to descend on the campus with the rest of the Minnesota delegation. 
"Your scrivener made his annual hegira to the old homestead recently, and in Philadel­phia had the pleasure of several sessions with Hugh McCaffco'. Vince McNally, and Joe Maxwell; seems to me these names have been mentioned here recently — could I be right? Walter 'Red' Smith, who was e?qiosed to the Joe Benda influence as roommate in those golden years, is now writing sports for the Philadelphia Record, with by-line, picture and all included in his daily column: incidentally, he's doing a right good job of chronicling the sports doings of the Quaker City. Jimmy Quinn was slated to take time off from his book-publishing business in Rahway, New Jersey, to drop in on a Philadelphia session, but business was so good Jim couldn't make it. May make connections with him at the Army game. 
"Frank McCurrie checked in for the I.ay­men's Retreat; John Wallace gets into the Bend off and on on legal business; Bill Daily shook oil legal work long enough to take in a good Commencement week-end. 
"Probably there's a lot of the lads who've been skipped in this section, and we're de­pending on Ed DeClcrcq and Bill Dooley to make it up: really, the strain has been ter­rific for your scribe—did I tell you about the 150 pound guard, and those pitiful tackles? Well, things are so bad, it's hard to know where to begin—we'll need^ail your sympathy this year." (Balance of story on football pros­pects thrown out by Ed. as coming from prejudiced source: Boland has to get a new storj' on this angle to make publication.) 
IQOS Secretarj-: Louis F. Buckley, 1965 j.^^ o Biltmorc St. N.W., Washington, D.C. 
BULLETIN: Special '2S reunion. Pennsyl­vania Hotel, New York, October 23, night before Arm>- game. Bob Hamilton in charge. 
From his new listening post alongside the ^Vhite House, your good secret-ory - writes the following: 
"After finding the dog sled mail rather slow outside Madison. Wisconsin. I decided to move a little farther south and east, hoping that I would see a few more of the classmates. Notre Dame has given me another year's leave of absence for wor^. with the Social Security Board in the Bureau of Unemployement Com­pensation in Washington. D. C. 
"It seems like old times to be living ne^r Bill Jones again. We have had several good sessions talking over the good old days on the N. D. campus. Bill was married last win­ter. He is with the Department of Justice here in Washington. Bill mentioned that he saw Ed McGuire recently while Ed was in Washington preparing to take a position with the Securities and Exchange Commission in Chicago. 
"T\vo of the classmates vi^ted Notre Dame this summer on their honeymoons. My old roommate, Denny Daly, and his bride came in from St. Paul where Denny is practicing law. It was Denny's first trip back to the campus since 1928. Joe LanKton. who usually man­ages to get back for a game or two each year, arrived with his wife from Peoria the day after their wedding. 
"I was sorry to hear that Charlie Oe Groote's four year old son was killed recently when run over by a wagon on their farm near Rolling Prairie, Indiana. Charlie has three other children. 
"Most of the classmates who returned for the reunion in June suggested that I continue the practice of appointing someone each month to help me out in writing the column. I hope I get the fine cooperation that I re­ceived last year in carrying out the plan. You will remember that the fellows who were appointed came through one hundred per cent. I am selecting Jack Wingcrter for the job for the next issue. Since Jack was back for the reunion, he should be able to give you a great deal of news. Drop him a line at 113 South Clinton Street. East Orange, New Jer­sey, so he will have up-to-the-minute informa­tion for you. Have your notes in the hands of the Alumni Oflice by October 20, Jack. I know you will start this series off as well as Jack Mullen and Howie Phalin did last year." 
Allen H. Mahar is returning, according to recent advices, to Binghamton, N. Y. after two years in Africa in commercial work. 
John L. Worden, Jr., was among the N.D. men listed in .-ImenVa's Youns; Men, a bio­graphical dictionary published during the summer. John is teaching at St. Bonavent­ure's College, Allegany, New York. He has written several text books. Among other '28 leaders in the book were Profs. Louis Buckley, and Andrew Boyle. From the N. D. faculty, 23 tnen were listed in the book. 
C A. Sporl, Jr., reports: 
"The writer had the pleasure of going back to school this past commencement for his class Ten-Year Reunion. Very happy to report to the other members of my lav-' class that we had a splendid turnout for this reunion. Rube Momscn came all the way from EI Paso for it, and some of the other fellows who were on deck were as follows: Dick Qnlnlan, Bob Mohlman, Bill Daily, *Doc* White, Ed McClar­non, Steve Wozniak, Seymour Weisberger, and last, but not least, John 'Flo Ziegfeld* Wallace. So you can see that with all of the foregoing on hand, we were able to keep things going over in our end of the Alumni Hall which we were allotted. We also had a very pleas­ant meeting with Dean Konop, at which meet­ing Wallace gave him all the *dcpe" on na­tional politics and Seymour took care of the South Bend situation. 
"Am pleased to report that Charles de la Vergne had another brother graduate from Notre Dame this past June. I understand that Pierre graduated with high honors. 
"I ran into Jadce Blache the other day at lunch and, as a matter of fact, Joe looks so young I hardly recognized him. So his judge­ship, together with his other legal business, appears to be agreeing \vith him. 
"Know Loo Thornton will be pleased to hear that I just got a letter from Art Haley advis­ing me that I just got under the wire for my Army game tickets. So naturally I will be able to make it. Understand that quite a few of the boys from down in this section will take in the Notre Dame-Georgia Tech game." 
An interesting reunion letter, received too late to heap coals of fire on the alraentees in the June issue, came from John F. McMahon, Pittsburgh: 
"Mine- was the accumulation of 10 years of thrills, all packed into one week-end. for it was my first time *back' since 1928. One noted a multitude of 'little thines,' all of which spoke of great advances, not only in the physical plant but also in the thoughtful orderly, far-sighted administration with which Notre Dame is blessed. 
"One of the great delights of the week-end for me was to 'discover' that the waves still lap the shores of the lakes as they have for a hundred years: that the trees and grass are as green and lovely as in the springs gone by; that, fundamentally, life goes on as it always did at Kotre Dame, amidst a God~Iike calm and beauty. "What a contrast with this topsy­turvy world of wars and panics, of social revolutions and mad philosophies. Calm peace prevails at Notre Dame despite 'the tumult of the time disconsolate.' It was good for the soul to live again, if only for a little while, in that heavenly atmosphere. 
"Again my thanks and sincere appreciation to the University for its genuine hospitality and for making such a week-end possible." 
1929 Secretary: Joseph P. McNamara, At­torney Gen. Office, Indianapolis, Ind. 
Current affairs possess special interest for Frank Smola, an administrator in the Cicero (Illinois) public schools. Frank spent the sum­mer in independent travel in England. Hol­land. Belgium, Germany, Czechoslovakia, Italy and France, studying the effect of current European economic and political trends upon educational philosophies in the same countries. 
1930 Secretory; Robert Hellrang, 306 N. Grand Boulevard, St. Louis, Snssoari. About to take on the burdens oC married life, Bemie Conroy asked to be relieved of the burdens of the class secretar>-*s job. The editors consented only with deep regret be­cause Bemie has done one of those super jobs. With thanks—and congratulations—they watch him go. Bob Hcllrung takes over with Bemie's en­thusiastic approval. We give you the Spirit of St. Louis: 
"Being elected lieutenant governor of this district, and being appointed secretary of the class of 1930, all within one week, has taken me off my feet. 
"TTie class of '30 boasts of dozens of liter­ary scribes more capable than myself. How­ever, if it is a cub reporter that you want, rather than an editor, I consider it an honor 
particularly to succeed Bemie Conroy, who has done such a fine job and has cer­tainly earned a rest after being in harness for almost ten years as secretary of this class. 
"You mention that I would not have to sor^'e in this capacity for more than two years. I heartily approve and feel that, in June. 1940, the members of the class of '30 should have the privilege of electing a sec­retary at the second class reunion. 
"So, with the permission of the members of my class, I accept the office of secretary for that temporary period. However, since the job is to be more or less extemporaneous, I would like to have every member of the class of '30 accept this responsibility with me. 
"Our purpose will be to build a closely woven organization which will begin now to plan for the second class reunion in 1940.... The tenth anniversary of our graduation. At this reunion we hope to have ten of the class's most astute scholars read papers entitled "The First Ten Years of the Depression." 
"We might also have a 'Prom Beautiful.' if Jerry Parker can tear himself away from his duties in New York in time to put up the decorations. 
"And then, since the class of 1930 was re­
sponsible for the promotion of the largest 
bonfire and pep meeting ever staged on the 
campus, I believe it fitting that we bum a 
few togs to commemorate that memorable 
feat. 
"The class of '30 has so many achievements 
to boast about that its members should be 
happy to revive these memories. 
"I wish that I could talk to every member 
of this class face to face and ask him what 
line of work he is following, and whether or 
not (among other things) he is married and 
has a family. I feel sure that the rest of the 
fellows have the same curiosity about their 
classmates. 
"However, -we must depend solely upon 
correspondence, and if the 'Thirties* will sit 
down and talk to me in a letter between now 
and the next issue of the ALUMNUS. I shall 
have a whale of a story for you. 
"Please reser\'e a full page for the Class 
of '30 in the next issue of the ALUMNUS." 
Warren Fogel writes an important note from New York: 
"You have probably heard from Leo Mc­Laughlin already to the effect that the club here is having a reunion and reception of all our graduates in New York on the Friday night preceding the Army game. To insure the largest possible alumni attendance and in connection with a possible 1930 reunion dis­cussed with Con Carey last summer, the New York club reunion would seem to be the appropriate place for the men of 1930 to gather. 
"I shall appreciate your carrying under the 1930 class notes the fact that our class will gather together at the New York Club re­union at the Hotel Penns}-lvania on Friday, October 28 where they may shake hands, talk and be talked at by numerous celebrities, dance (wives and other females are eligible) and in general have a good time at $1 per head. 
"If this appears, the judge (meaning Con Carey) will at least know I have done some­thing to promote the reunion for our class." 
Bemie Conroy signs off with the following swell stuff: 
"Con Carey, no%v judge and surrogate of Franklin County, New York, writes from Bfa­lone that he saw Hank Frcy and Tom Lantry at Saranac Lake this summer. They are both working in New York City. 
"Jon Beljon became the proud father of a second girl on May 2. He is still in Cleveland. Bill Ginder of Pittsburgh also boasts of a daughter bom this spring, 
"Tom Cunnineham reports that he is now in the advertising business with the William 
H. Rankin Company. 
"Chct Ashman sailed for Buenos Aires last March 19. Has anyone heard from him since then? 
"Dan Cannon of Cleveland was in the East for a vacation this summer. 
"Jim Dodson is now connected with the Carnegie Brewing Co. of Pittsburgh. In his travels through West Virginia he ran into Jim Mmlloy at Charleston. Malloy is with the Bell Telephone Company. 
"Art Erra is helping the campaign of John Dockweiler, candidate for governor of Cali­fornia. Dockweiter had some brothers at N.D. 
"Jadge Catberry has broken into the pub­licity field at the Hollywood studios, homit Bcrardi continues in the drug business in Los Angeles. 
"Coleman G'Shaughnessy of Arthur Kudner Inc. won the N. Y. Advertising Club prise for the best direct mail copy of the year." 
Bin McCarthy is a field man for the Inter­nal Revenue Dept, Chicago, but forgot busi­ness interests to do his rooting for the Sox. 
Ted Abel is assistant to the secretary of the Indianapolis Printers Association. Jack Chevigny is still at Fairfield, lit., in the oil business. 
John F. Hcaly sailed for Europe in July on the S. S. Brittanic with the 13th Annual Little Flower Pilgrimage. He was scheduled to return in September after an eight-country tour. John is a part of the Hayes - Healy Travel Bureau. 193 North LaSalte Street, Chicago. 
1931 SecreUr^-: John Bergan. 838 E. Col­fax Ave., South Bend. Ind. 
John Bcrgan takes off again in the custom­ary elegant Bergan way: 
"Sadness again visited the class during the summer when drowning claimed the life of Ray Dnnda on July 10 at Lake Geneva, Wis­consin. Ray. one of the most popular gradu­ates of the College of Commerce, had just gained a promotion in his company and was vacationing at the lake. Our sympathy is extended to his wife and son, to his parents and family. A mass was offered for the repose of his soul by Rev. Charles Carey, C.S.C.. on the campus at the request of the class. 
"Sympathy of the class is also extended to Bob Dnffy of Jotiet whose wife died on August 15. 
"Perhaps one of the best attendances of the class on the campus since the reunion was held at the Laymen's Retreat in August when Joe Deeb, district manager of the HOLC at Grand Rapids, Harrj* Merdzinski. Grand Rap­ids barrister. Joe Blaney, salesman for the Youngston*n Sheet and Tube Company, of Grand Rapids, were present. Even Joe Boy-land, popular Furniture City insurance man. left Charles Thomas, bom in June, long enough to be present. Frank McGrcal, who was recently appointed by the governor to the Illinois Athletic commission, and Frank McAdams a member of District Attorney Igoe's staff were down from the Windy City. Bill Habing and Bill Leppcrt were up from Indianapolis. Note: readers would have had privilege of seeing photo of the happy group had camera been properly loaded when photo was taken. 
"Jim and Margaret Kearney are now full fledged South Benders as Jim is teaching taw and directing the Lawyer at the University. Jerry Desmond is now with Sears Roebuck and together with Bemie Leahy, is setting a tot of goods on Chicago's west side. Gil Gandie celebrated his first wedding anniversary re­cently and is chief accountant for the Eck­rich Packing Company in Kalamazoo. Charlie Miltner is rounding out his term as prosecutor of Wexford County. Michigan and is planning on returning to private practice. He now has t\vo children. Eddie Brennan is with the- So­cial Security Commission in Grand Rapids. Ed is stitl single and often sees Ed Rich who has been married for the past three years and working in Grand Rapids. 
"The many friends of George Jackoboice will he pleased to learn that George is recovering from a very serious ailment which has had him bedfast the last six months at his home in Grand Rapids. I am sure that he would enjoy hearing from some of the old gang. His address is . 1223 Lake Michigan Drive. Nidc Bohlinr, who was also seriously ill dur­ing the summer, is able to be back at his law ofSce again. Rollie Fonlin of South Bend is recovering from a serious illness that had incapacitated him most all summer. 
"Dave Rnsk has resumed his teaching duties at Chicago Normal College and is now resid­ing at 2620 Belle Plain Ave., Chicago. Al Grisutti who visited South Bend during the summer is planning on being married this fall. He enjoyed a visit -with Dick Baker who had been working on his Ph.D. at the University this summer. Dick is teaching at Nazareth CoUege. Another member of the class who took the South Bend Country club by mashie this summer was Larry MoUer. Illinois state champion for 1938, who was defeated in a close match in the semi-finals of the Western Open. Larry spent most of the summer annexing championships in golf and selling lumber in Quincy. 
"Prospects look bright at Loyola of New Orleans where Larry Mnllins is in his second year as coach of the *Wolf Pack.* His team plays DePaul at Chicago in a night game on October 22. It is hoped that a large number of Notre Dame alumni will be on hand to greet Moon and his team in Chicago. Carl Cronin after a summer in Chicago has re­turned to Winnipeg where be will have a strong rugby team in the Western Canada league. Billy Sullivan had a very- good year with the S L Louis Browns having maintained 
a .300 hitting average for the year as well as doing a good job of catching. He will return to Chicago after the season. Bill Dolan is selling flour out of Hutchinson. Kansas, and his territory covers a great bit of the Middle West. Bill Rowcn is engaged in the plastic art business in Detroit. 

"Bob Whitman, the Erie coalman, was a visitor to the campus this summer. He is married and spent most of his time showing a couple of prospective freshmen the campus sights. John Hcaly, the Chicago master print­er, postaled from Rome during the summer where he took in most of the sights. Ben Cakes relates that he and Bill Lahcy were hosts on a couple of western tours for the Mamcll and Ford Travel Agency of Chicago. They saw Jack Hogan and Gene Calhoun on the Coast. Fran Kopinski is one of the demo­cratic candidates for justice of peace of Port­
• age township in South Bend at the November election. It's a son in the home of Mr. and Mrs. Art Bergen of the Bronx. Bob Ruppe has left the University and the old home town and is now working in Chicago for the Con­gress Hotel. 
"Heartiest congratulations are extended to Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Ashe who were married in Walnut Park, California on September 24. Mrs. Ashe is the former Kathryn Probert. We were in hopes that they would spend a share of the wedding trip in South Bend, hut they just didn't come. It may be of inter­est also that John Connelly, former professor of philosophy, was married the latter part of August in Ottawa, Canada. 
"Jim Doyle relays the information that Paul Ertcl is now with the Frank G. Hough Co., of Chicago. Frank Holland has given up the grain business and has joined his father in the coal distribution. F, X. Murphy is sales manager for the Eastman Company, Manito­woc, Wisconsin and now has three youngsters. Freddie Swint is an accountant in Nashville. Tennessee. Dr. Clark Benkcndorf is on the medical staff of the McDonough County (Illi­nois) Municipal Tuberculosis Sanitarium and has recently returned from a vacation in the Black Hills. 
"The Power*-0*Bri«n-Rahaim get-together in Atlanta at the Biltmore hotel on the eve of the Georgia Tech game may be history when you read this. The Touhy-Bergen-Foley-Mahan 
party at the Pennsylvania hotel. New York on 
the eve of the Army game promises great 
things for the future, though. 
"The class extends sympathy to Ed Murray 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
on death of his brother early in September. Jerry Crowley, South Bend paint man, plans to take the long step late this fall in Pelham, New York. Paul Koprowski is no\r teach­ing Economics at the University." 
An interesting bit appeared in a Chicago paper recently, the whereabouts of many of the championship 1930 football team, as- re­lated by Larry "Moon" Mnllins on a visit to Chicago: Larry is of course coaching football at Loyola of New Orleans; Frank Carideo is backflcld and basketball coach at Mississippi State: Marchy Schwartz is head football coach at Creighton. and father of twins; Marty Brill guides the football destinies of LaSalle College in Philadelphia; Tom Conley is head coach at John Carroll in Cleveland; Ed Kosk}- and Frank Leahy are end and line coaches at Fordham under Jimmy Crow­ley; Tom Kassis manages one of a string of family dry goos stores in Cheyenne, Wyo.; Tommy Yarr, Bert Metzgcr and Al Culver are all working in Chicago. 
193 2 Secretary: Herbert Giorgio. 9003 ISSth Street. Hollis. L. L. New York. 

John Scanlan is supervisor of the North Area for the Indiana Bell Telephone Co., and recently moved into spacious new quarters, at 3959 Central Avenue, Indianapolis, with his staff. 
Bob Hartman's marriage to Kathleen O'Don­nell, according to a recent note, took place last year, August 4, 1937 to be exact, and the ALUMNUS just caught up with it in time to note the arrival of a baby girl this July. 
Now it's Dr. Francis J. Rigel. 4168 East 131st St., Cleveland. Ohio. 
Those of you who saw and heard quite a bit about the Hagens, pcre and fils, the latter 
N. D. '40, in the St. Paul Open in July, can thank Jerrj' Conway, who had charge of the publicity and advertising, as a part of David, Inc., Twin City advertising agency. 
Ed Mehren writes from Box 1, Glendalc, Arizona, where he is now a parner in a firm which manufactures and sells to bottlers a base used in the bottling of a carbonated bev­erage called Squirt. The beverage consists of grapefruit juice, carbonated water and sugar. There is large Middle West distribution. Ed says that any N. D. men in the bottling busi­ness (and there are some) might make this a mutually satisfactorj- addition. 
193 3 Secretatr: Donald Wise. 110 Pleasant Street. JoUet. Illinois. 
The September terra of court in Jersey found Phil Faherty, Harvard Law, '37, being sworn in as an attorney. Phil is also cele­brating a co-highlight by the announcement of his engagement in June to Miss Rita M. Cunningham of Trenton. 
Fred Smte, Jr., has had a busy sunmier. Fred celebrated bis third birthday in his "boiler" and has been making slow but en­couraging progress, in his River Forest home. A special auto trailer has permitted him to move about a bit, and he was present when the College All-Stars, featuring Elmer Layden and a good Notre Dame cast, made the Wash­ington Redskins bite the dust of Soldiers Field. Notre Dame is looking forward to Fred's pos­sible attendance at a game here this fall. 
Joe Lopker is now with King Features, in addition to continuing art work with CoUeoe 
Humor. 
Leo C. Nulty, one of the FBI boys, was wounded in a gun fight in downtown Mem­phis this summer. His condition was reported to be not too serious. One of the gunmen involved in the mix-up was killed. 
Edmnnd A. Stcphmn has been elected presi­dent of the Harvard Legal Aid Bureau, a bulletin &om the Harvard Law School states. The Bureau is made up of 30 honor students from the School, who render gratuitous legal service to the needy of greater Boston and, by special provision, practice in the courts of that community. Ed has the highest scho­lastic average for two years ever attained by a Notre Dame student in HLS. 
Rumson N. J., has paid signal honor to a Notre Dame family by the appointment of Francis Nary to succeed his father, who died suddenly, as a member of the Rumson bor­ough council. The elder Nary was highly re­garded and Frank's appointment seems to 
. meet with popular approval. He will fill out the term of his father and will become a candidate to succeed to that office. 
1934 Secretary: James Moscow, 2320 North Lawndale Ave., Chlcaco, Ulinois 
John Conley is reporting for the Baltimore Evening Sunt according to the dope from Hal WiUiams. '38, also of Baltimore. 
1935 SecrcUry: Frauklyn C. Hochreiter. 610 Rodd Street. Midland. Michican. 
The mighty man of Midland caught the weekly pony express with this: 
"Here we are again, gang! All ready for another top-notch year in class news. Will we lead the way or are we going to be 'just another class' reporting monthly ? It's up to you to come through with the dope. We'll put it out if you give it to us. What do you say to flooding the desk with letters, cards and any other missives you have around. It's been a long time since we've beard from some of our old stalwarts—^"King* LaLonde,­'Mitch' Saleh, BiU Kennedy. Cliff Dudley, 'Scribe* Carbine. Loais Grosso, Frank HolU­han. and more of you silent supporters. How about letting us in on what has happened to you and those of the crowd with whom you are in contact? Let's get started on another bang up year with a full page in November! We'll "be looking for it—it's your column! 
"First of all. felicitations are in order for Bob Rogers down Far Rockaway land on Long Island. Bob has been confining himself to the hotel business since we were in Columbia together. On September 6 Bob took to him­self a bride. She was the charming Jean Detwiller. They were married in St. Francis de Sales Church, Belle Harbor. Knowing Jean we can definitely certify that Bob is a fortu­nate fellow. 
"But we have further congratulations— from Art Korzencski down Washington way, we learned during middle July that John Clark finally took the step on June 11, with Art as best man. In the bridal party were Tom Proctor, Wallie O'Brien, and Jake Kunz. 
"Again from the Polish diplomat comes word that WaUie O'Brien took to himself a wife in the Log Chapel on May 19. This is late news but we had no word of it prev­iously. Since we do not have the name of the bride, we can't pass it on. But we know '35ers wish them well. 
"Art asked us to correct an error on our part in the June issue. The tieup in Wash­ington was with the National Catholic Wel­fare Conference. He was in the Catholic Youth Bureau, a special department dealing with youth projects. At this moment he is back in Chi at Loyola. 
"Art lets us in on the much sought Vince Gorman. The Kingston hermit has been doing pre-med work at Catholic Univer»ty and fast finished up. From sources other than Korzen­eski, since his letter, we have learned that 
30 
Vince anticipated enrolling at Cornell Med. School this fall. Now, 'little man,* how about a letter? 
"Art thought that Bob Hcnncbcrgcr is liv­ing in "Washington, although at time of writ­ing he had not been contacted. Bob should be finishing up the law at Georgtown^-or has finished. I<atc in July came a card from Paris. The sender—Jerry Boyle. Jerry was just leav­ing for a vacation in the states, via the Normandie. But to Quote—'Greetings from the European section of the class of '35. I've just finished my first year's work toward the doctorate in philosophy at the University of Louvain, It was quite an experience, but I managed to come through with distinction.' Great stuff, Jerrj-! 
*'And now to our 'Judge* Proclor! Last month came clippings from the Elkhart paper. Headline—'Court quizzes young woman on auto crash.' The court? "WTiy 'Acting City Judge Thomas G. Proctor, who sat as a one-man grand jurj-.' And to think we would ever worr>' about his success as a lawj'er! 
"During the summer months we made sev­eral trips down to K. D. and foimd few a\'ailable. But we did enjoy an evening with Luke Kelly, now super\'isor of Old Age Assist­ance at the county DPW office. 
"\MiiIe in Chicago we ran into George Dc­mctria the night of the All-Star game. ITie Palmer House 'front' looked as prosperous as ever and promised to send on some chatter for us very shortly. 
"Later on in Detroit, as wc were coming out of the Book-Cadillac we ran into John Brcnnan who was awaiting the next Mass at St. Aloysius church. John claimed hard work had ^ven him extra muscle, and he looked it too. At the moment he was anticipating a 
WESTWARD HO! LEFS GO! 
TEN DAVS ALL -EXPENSE TOUR 
Notre Dame vs. Southern California 
SATURDAY. DEC. 3, LOS ANGELES 
All expense e
^ 4 ^{C^*^^ '^" ^^P^"^^ rate 
Includes everything 
Visiting: 
New Orleans, San Antonio, E! Paso, Juarez, Los Angeles and Boulder Dam 
Via: Ulinois Central, Southern Pacific, Union Pacific, Burlington Route 
For information write to 
WESTWARD HO 
Earl J. Redden 
Oliver Hotel, South Bend, Indiana 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
good job with the power company in Detroit. "As for ourself—little new has occurred. We Bxe still in the hinterlands, hunting down dclinauents. keeping the courthouse cozy and annoying the local populace with occasional talks. Vt'e realize it is a long way up here, but if you ever get within 20 miles, drop in or call us and we'll contact you somehow.... It's going to be a long cold winter—^we'U need something to warm us up. 
"See you at the Illinois game! Send on the dope!" • 
Anthony Kuharich, formerly on the teach­ing staff of SL Hedwige's High school and St. Joseph's Academy in South Bend, is now a teacher and prefect in the Gibault Home, Terre Haute. 
Luke Kclb* was recently elected secretary of the St. Joseph Valley chapter (South Bend) of the American Association of Social Work­ers. 
Gcrrj-Doyle wrote in midsummer that he was employed by the Fleischer Studios in New York City, coloring Popeyes and Betty Boops. He was living in a Kew York apartment with Bill Farrcll, of East Orange, New Jersey. Comvioniccal readers with a Notre Dame back­ground noted with satisfaction that Gerry was the designer of one of the summer covers on that magazine. Some of Gerry's cartoons have been reprinted in the CaUwlic Worker. 
193 6 Secretary: John Moran 61 E. 95th St., Apt. 2, New York City. 
Muscles Moran—not Bugs—keeps up his ele­gant efforts with the following: 
"We knew that autumn was coming when we received one of Managing Editor Bill Doo­Icy's cards announcing the deadline for the October ALUMNUS. So before we dug out our woolies for the coming winter we paused long enough to note that the ever diligent Mr. Dooley had gone and spent the departed summer concocting a motto for the magazine, to wit 'Something from every Club and Class in every ALUMNUS.' As far as the class of '36 goes that won't be so difficult with a little assistance from all of you throughout the coming year. Your letters with information regarding yourself and the classmates you meet will be a big help. So keep the mailman bus>\ 
"Before we plunge into the pile of corre­spondence accumulated during the summer, a word of welcome to the new secretarj* for the class of 19oS, Hal Wiiliams. Hal used to cover the campus with us for the Scholastic, as did the two gentlemen running the columns immediately preceding and following us— 
•Hoch* Hockreiter and 'Scoop* Foley. 
"To begin with, we trust you all enjoyed a pleasant and profitable summer. To those who remembered us with letters and cards, we are grateful. To Doc Caspar goes the distinction of having covered the most territory. Doc spent the summer travelling in Europe and sent us postcards from London and Lourdes. One from France informed us that it was a wonderful wine countrj' with the 'hills flowing with grapes.* So now we*re waiting for Doc to return—with a few samples to prove his point. 
"From the other side of-the continent. Portland. Oregon, came a card from Jim Kirby who forsook his accounting work here in New York to spend a month back in his native Oregon. On the way out Jim reported that he stopped o%'er night on the campus and renewed old acquaintances with several raem­l>ers of the faculty. In Klamath Falls, Oregon, Jim dropped in to see Gil Moty who is w*orklng with his father in the engineering etiuipment line. Gil is now a family man. 
October, 1938 
having married a girl from South Bend quite some time back. 
"Bob Cavanaugh took time off from straightening out the country's insolvent banks for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to drop a line from Washington. The former class 'politician,* while keeping his finger on the nation's pulse, reported that he and Ray Deely are kept pretty busy down Washmton way. A new addition to the alumni group in the nation's capital is Jack Barber who is emploj-ed by Mrs. I Patterson, owner of sev­eral Washington papers. Bob has seen or heard from Joe Newman, now located in Bal­timore, George Carey, Joe Bandurich, and Steve Miller, who was preparing to take the Washington bar exams. 
"A welcome surprise in August was a letter on the stationery of the Gottsacker Insurance Agency, 720 Geele Avenue. Sheboygan, Wiscon­sin, from none other than Bill Gottsacker himself. Bill, who went unreported these many months, wrote that he finished a six weeks' study course at the Travelers Insurance School in Hartford, Connecticut and then re­turned to Sheboygan to open his own agency. It w'as very encouraging to read that Bill had done famously on his own—particularly in so competitive a field as insurance selling. 
"More news from the Gottsacker Agency was to the elTect that Bill's two roommates in that infamous 428 Walsh triple had got them­selves made supervisors; Dick Schmidt, with the Niacet Chemical Company, in Niagara Falls, and Ray Hcrrly with the Twin Cities Briquet Company, Minneapolis. In addition, Dick has made a name for himself in Niagara Falls athletic circles where he is well known as 'Man Mountain* Schmidt. 
"Tom Campbell took time off from his ac­counting work in Grand Rapids, Michigan to write that Tom Bott is now a collector for a local law agency and that Art Vamcau con­tinues as manager of one of Grand Rapids* theaters. Tom can be reached at 145S Wilcox Park Drive. S.E. 
"Mickey Dendler rcporfed in from Philadel­phia, where he is still striving for that old law degree at the University of Pennsylvania. Mickey journeyed west during the summer to visit South Bend, but it is rumored that the campus wasn't the only attraction that brought him all the way from Philly. 
"Roommate Cliff Brown, having snared his 
LL.B. from Notre Dame in June, and having passed his bar exam, wrote into say that be had begun the practice of law in Norwalk, Ohio. Cliff had only one complaint—there are too many lawyers and not enough lawsuits in the old home town. So if any of you in the vicinity are planning a few suits, get in touch with Cliff at the Huron County Bank Build­ing, Norwalk. 
"And that's about all the mail we Iiave for this issue. Local alumni activities in New York City have begun to pick up after the summer letdown. At the first fall meeting of the club on Thursday. September 8, about 250 gathered in the Centre Club to welcome the new students and their dads. Only a handful from *36 was present, however, the remainder seemingly still being out of town. Among those we saw was Joe Sdimidt, demon New York Sim advertising salcsmnn, who spent his vacation in Europe. Bill Gillespie, Biff Flanncr?-, Bill Shea. Walt Sratuscvich, Andy Hnfnagel, Jim Klrby, and Howie Cu-sack, who reported that he expects shortly to be connected with a travel agency. Bill Walsh, starting his last year at Fordham Law, passed on the information that Eddie Owens is re­turning to Catholic University this fall to continue his studies in Social Service. Also, that Joe Ratigan sailed on the Manhattan 

October. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
September 7 for a six weeks' tour of England and France. Nice going, Jce. 
"A good representation from '37 and '35 were also on hand, including Jim McDevitt, who was recently admitted to practice (ac­countancy) before the U. S. Treasury Depart­ment, and Vince Hogan, demon typewriter salesman for Remington Rand. 
"One last item is to inquire about a report that Lin Phoebus recently got married in Philadelphia where he is working on one of the metropolitan papers. How about a denial or a confirmation, Lin? 
"The Alumni Office recently wrote us re­questing the present addresses of the following members from '36: 
"Joe Alten, Win Day, Tom Dunn (Pittsfield, Massachusetts), Dave FTynn, Tom Gleichauf, Art Grc(;or>-, and Joe Newman. If any of the above mentioned read this notice, drop us a line with their present whereabouts. We'll lie more than glad to hear from you. And that goes for anyone else—help us keep the column rolling along with your letters and cards." 
3Iorris Hcrtel, Chicago, recently passed the Illinois state exam for an architect's license, Morris a designer for McCarthy. Smith & EppifT. 
Fred Caridco has left South Bend to become athletic director and head football coach at Visitation High school in Detroit. 
Frank Murphy is collecting for the U.S.F. 
G. in Baltimore. 
1937 Secrctar>-: Paul Foley, 44 Hampton Road, Grosse Point, Michigan. 
Tlie former scourge of the Scholastic takes olT for you again: 
"And so another summer skids skittishly toward slush and snow, and the 1931 notes are shoved up a few notches to make room for a new batch of recruits hurled frantically into the front line trenches—and none too soon either. 
"Frankly we've had a verj' 'un-secretarylike* summer. Scratching together a few assorted rumors, a fragment of romantic postcard, a wisp or two of memory we can account for probably a corporal's guard of the gang that left the campus 18 months ago come Yuletide. 
"We are reasonably sure that Arthur Den­nis Crohin, right tackle, right bower and right guy; is in Detroit with his still new bride, busy with the details of Cronin Coal Company. ('Our "Business is Black But WQ Treat You White') 
"Last reports had Ed Gannon in or near Cleveland tapping wires or something for the local EJison outfit. We'd like to see Ed cast in u Passion Play—with that red beard. 
"Only roundabout word has been heard from Vincent Hartnctt but he is reported back at Notre Dame for further graduate work. 
"There is a reported move to throw to­gether a gang of shock troops and storm the old Bastile on the occ::sion of the Illinois game. If this report is true and things go along with reasonable smoothness, we expect to see such stalwarts as Frank Gcddcs, also an electrical tycoon, out of Chicago; Bob McClain, Hearstman, out of Peru by way of Chi: Joe Dnicckcr, who sells God's free air God knows where; Frank Lcssclyong, who we understand burned up the golf links wherever 

he appeared all summer; Bob McKcating, about whom we've hoard far too little: Jerry Clacys, the candy kid. 
"Very shortly now we are going to set in motion a rather complicated but thoroughly worl"ible spy system rivalling the A.P., I.N.S., 
U.P. and n DcLanccy Davis bull session in the wide scope it will cover. This intricate system calls for your scribe to contact at "Frankly, this has been a little like ekjng least 100 of the 1937 levy via postcard ot out a meal on Friday noon—there's mightr letter personally begging a few scraps of in­little core to work on— formation. There will be no invitation to buy insurance, join a burial society, take a sub­"Don't wait for a letter from this depart­scription or sec your dentist twice a year— ment, break out the stronsbox. buck up, rip it's strictly on the level. AH we ask is a oft a couple of three cent stamps, just like 

quick reply. Things have been geared up that, and bust a few letters in here. up here by the addition of some typewriter "Hope Dooley has some scraps to pad out oil and a secretary so that we can guarantee this offering." a reply in kind. 
"Late shots: We understand that Paul Shccdy is still marooned in this land of the Guy McMichael. South Bend, was recently freak instead of castanetting under a South elected president o fthe Young Democrats of 
American moon. Maybe he'll be wedding St. Joseph County. He succeeded John Shire-
belling under an Indiana sun^-or maybe he ly. '31. Oscar Zoss, *3S, is the new vice­has—or just plain maybe. There has been president. only one trickle of news from the boys who arc taking a further whtfl at the books—wc 
John Hartley is with the King Feature Syn­
dicate in New York City. 
understand Frank Hardart sst some new rec­ords in mod school last year—in addition to the swing records he inherited from Jam 
1938 SecrcUry: Harold A. Williams, 216 East Lake Ave., Baltimore, l^Iatyland. 
Gillespie, the old original record grafter from 
whom wc have heard nothing, so there I 

The Baltimore Bearcat starts his ALUMNUS "Our former roommate Robert Lawrence career in this highly auspicious way: 
Grocan is still our former roommate. We owe him a letter and presume he is still in the "With 28 letters, a postcard, and nine pages Sunny Southland with that oil firm which of class placement data from Bill Dooley, to struggles along in Shreveport, Louisiana, un­cram into these columns, I won't waste valu­
der the Grognn name. able Space reminiscing about the memorable Hfth or growing nostalgic about going back 
"I've often wondered cbout some of the to school (I'm wTiting this along about the '37crs who left before we grabbed the sheep­time X was usually packing for N. D.). Here skins—as for instance 'Red* Rankin, the goes, and if your name is misspelled Just let scourge of old Morrissey; Steve Finan, from Jim Armstrong know—he'll assuage your feel­

whom wc last heard from as he fought the ings sending free the 
 by you a ticket to 'dirty machine* politics in Indiana: Jim 
Army-Notre Dame game. Dubbs, the Cleveland stargazer; Robert Em­
mctt 'Slick* Hart, about whom little is heard 

"Charlie Callahan came through with the even in the suburbs of Farmington. 
longest letter and the most news so he has 
ANNOUNCINGE 

A NEW SERIES OF 20 PAMPHLETS 
GOD'S WONDER-WORLD 
A Study of the Universe for Children 
By Rev. Thomas A. Lahey, C. S, C. 
Simple, fascinating and educational, this work is particularly valuable in preparing chil­dren for the more serious studies of later life. 
* GOD'S WONDER-WORLD is from the THE TITLES ARE: author of, and is a companion to, God's Heroes — Gad's Gifts to Man a work that went through three editions within fif­Earth and Shy teen months and of which 55,000 copies were sold Minerals and Metals shortly after publication. The fifth edition (in Gems boofc form) has just been printed. 
Plants Trees 

* Now comes this new series entitled, GOD'S 
Flowers 

WONDER-WORLD, a study of the universe and 
Fruits 

Wild Animals its marvels for the child mind. The purpose back 
Tame Animals of these twenty pamphlets is to teach boys and 
The Dou girls of the fourth, fifth, and sixth grade level the 
Side-show Animals 

power and goodness of God as demonstrated in 
Birds 

the world around them. It is interesting to note 
Inseets (A) Insects (5) that adults even more than children seem to take 
Fishes to them. 
Snakes 
Man 


THE PRICE. ONLY $1.00 
Tribes and Races Concltision COMPLETE SET (20 Pamphlets) BOXED 
* Please address your order as follows: 
! THE AVE MARIA PRESS (Almnmis 10-38) Notre Dame, Indiaiia I 
I*|iiiiiiiiiiitit>ittiiiiiiiitiiititiitii»iiiiiii<iiiiii»tiiiitiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiMtiitiiiit>iiMiitMiimmmMiiiiMiiiiMMtimMiiii»«iiwMit»tiiiMQ 
CENTRALITY 
In the heart of Chicago's business and social activities. A step from Chicago's world famous Michigan Boulevard; adjacent to Lincoln Pork; a short block from Lake Michigan and almost equally close to the heart of the so-called Loop. 
•
 450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully equipped with bath and shower combination, servi­dor and circulating ice water. 

•
 Three colorful restaurants including a popular priced coffee shop, ten pri­vate dining rooms and ballrooms in­cluding our new Notre Dame Room. 

•
 Notre Dame alumni, student body and faculty can be definitely certain that they will receive the ultimate in facilities, courtesy and service at rates surprisingly moderate. 

•
 Moke the Knickerbocker your headquarters when in Chicago. 


Man G. Huntf Manager 
CHICAGO'S 
NICKERBOCKER 

the opening shot, 'WeMI start off with our old class president—Johnny O'Connor. Johnny is right now in St. Joseph's hospital, Elkhart, recovering from pneumonia. He contracted it at the summer camp of his folks. X^ke Wawa­see, Indiana; it was the direct result of too much sun exposure. Chills followed in the wake of his heated condition and out of this came hronchitis and ultimately pneumonia/ {Johnny dropped me a note the other day saying that he was completely recovered and would be back for Law.) 
" *Jim Carson is working for the Telephone 

company in Indianapolis. George Santar gave 
piano lessons during the summer, and has 
entered Butler to get, in February, his state 
teacher's license in music I saw George Smith 
at the Indianapolis Club summer dance and 
later in the summer at the club golf tourna­
ment and he is still unemployed. Charlie 
Brown, I hear, is working as an architect in 
Lafayette. Indiana. Tom Fitzgerald has an 
engineering post with Caterpillar Tractor Co., 
Peoria. Illinois. I bumped into Hank Theis 
on one of the main drags of Indianapolis: he 
was on his way to see about a job. Leo Weldt . 
worked in an Indianapolis bank during the 
summer; he is now at the Har\*ard School of 
Business Administration. Ted Fraser, Clark 
Re>-noIds, and Duck May, are at the same 
school....' 
" 'From here on I'm just going to give it to you in jottings. Hub Kirchman is working in California. Paul Nowak, Johnny Moir, and Owen Kane, are working for a tire outfit in Akron^ither Goodyear or Firestone. Denny Emanuel worked on the campus during the summer and then went to Providence, Rhode Island, to play in an All-Star football game; he will enter Iowa Medical School. Don Cur­rier has adi-anced as far as anyone since June: he is president of the Currier Mort­gage Co., Detroit- Somebody told me that Johnny Kellcy has an insurance job in Bos­ton. George Sdilaudcckcr has entered M. I. T. for his Master's in chemical engineering. Bob Shea teaches school at DowHng High. Dcs _ Moines, Iowa. John Plouff, another August boy, worked in the University's Maintenance Department oflice during the summer. Bill Clifford, the sprinter, spent the summer at Lake Wawasee; he told me that he has some job lined up starting in September.' 
•' 'Pat Carey is a runner on Wall Street. Jack Dcane worked in a Milwaukee brewery during the summer and returned to N. D. for Law. George ISIorris spent the summer on the campus fulfilling his duties as financial sec­retary of the K. C. He took summer Law courses; as did O'Connor and Johnny Wilson. Kay Fiedler is working in Indianapolis in the Reilly laboratories. Scotty Rcardon is a travel­ling salesman for his father's Dakota Iron Store, Sioux Falls. South Dakota. Joe Thom-burg is working- for the Lane Drug Co., in Toledo (Bub Crowley is with the same com­pany), Paul Leahy expects to get work in Texas,' 
"Charlie had a lot more news but, since it duplicated some of the material coming later it was omitted. Incidentally, Charlie was working around school at last reports. He spoke of going to Boston, Arizona, New York, or Chicago. Good old Charlie with the tilted hat and the campus vote in his pocket.... 
"Just a day or so before the deadline in 

comes a belated letter from the old editor of 
the Scholastic. Gene VasIetL Says Gene. 'Nat­
urally being an old SehoJastie man from way 
back I have waited until the very last minute 
to submit my copy heh heh, Williams, how do you like it? However, contrary to Sdiolastie tradition I shall present my copy with a minimum of padding.... You know what I've been doing for three months? Ha Ha—looking for a job—^what a joke! At pres­
ent, though, I have a pretty good outlook with Benton Bowles advertising agency.* 
" 'Now comes the scoop of the month: Jack **Bing" Connor, campus politician and crooner, has been secretly married since July. 1937 to a Brooklyn Miss. And that's not all. Mr. and Mrs. Connor announced the birth of a baby boy this July.' 
'* 'Got together with Jack Firth a few times 

for a couple of rounds of golf. He's looking 
for a job, too. Jack Ward has been keeping 
me company down at the beach on hot days— 
he's also looking for a job. Oh yes. Firth 
ma>* go to St. John's Law School at night. 
" 'Vic. Mercado went to some summer school upstate, and will enter Columbia in the Fall for his Master's degree. Rigo DiBrienza enters Long Island University Medical School. Wimpy Wardell, Jack Tangney, and Paul Van Wag­ner, were all taking it easy when I last heard from them. Jack Zcrbst was in New York for a week looking for a job. but after finding the lay of the land played it smart and went home.' (Jack later got a job with the Nation­al Carbon Company in Cleveland.) Gene asked me to put his right address in the column. Here it is: 437 East 22nd Street, Brooklyn. 
"Several weeks ago I had a foreign post car from Ed Bartnett, the dreamer beyond the bridge. He scrawls: 'Everything's been great on this trip. France. Belgium, Holland, Eng­land, and Scotland, arc great Erin is next. I bumped into Bill Reilly in the Louvre. In London I ran into Bob (not the one who was in Germany last year) Mullen, and we had a good time for five days.' Ed goes to Columbia for his Master's. Bill enters Harvard Law, and Bob. so we hear, will write advertising for a Chicago agency. Other European trav­elers were: Dade May, Joe Sloorc, and Clark Reynolds. Lcn Skoglund and Bill Armel, as you know, are taking a world tour. They expect to be back around the first of Novem­ber. Len will enter Haskins & Sells. Chicago, and Bill will sell paint for the Nubian Paint and Varnish Co., Chicago. 
"Tom Shells came through with a fine letter 

around September 1. He writes that he. Hook 
Kerwin, Ed Kavanaugh. Freddy Williamson, 
and Al Sierrod, followed their musical lean­
ings and played and paid for five weeks at 
Virginia Beach, Virginia. He refers to 
'played and paid* because the Union took half 
of what they made. Tom says that Kavanaugh 
has obtained a job in the engineering depart­
ment of Braniff Airways, Dallas, Texas. 
Georsre Fitzpatrick is planning on opening a 
gas station in North Bcllingham, Massa­
chusetts. Colonel Morrisson was down at Vir­
ginia Beach this summer while watting for a 
job to come along. Bill *T-Bone* Mahoney 
spent the summer as a Ranger in Yosemite 
National Park. Bill will return to N. D. for 
Law, and will also edit the literary section of 
the Scholastic, Al Shcrrod spent part of ^ the 
summer selling tires for his father in Robin­
son. Illinois, and will enter St. Louis Medical 
School in the Fall. Tommy Atkinson, the old 
leader of the Modemaires, is selling insurance 
for his father's John Hancock Life Insurance 
Co., Winchester, Mass.—^Thanks very much, 
Tom. 
"Tom Elder, while making a tour of the eastern circuit in search of an accounting job, stopped over for a two day visit in Baltimore. For the time being he is working as a baker in his father's wholesale bakery in Coshocton, Ohio. He passes along the news that Larry Dillon, one of the Bohbsey twins, is managing some of his father's gasoline sta­tions in Hudson, Michigan, and that Tim 
•Cmiee, the other Bobbsey boy, is working for the Union Mortgage Company, 2014 Union Guardian Building, Detroit. He also told me that Ray Loncstreth is still resting In Zanes­ville. Ohio, and that Lonit Fox is working 
October, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
for his father's Kunkel Valve Co., Ft. Wayne. 
"John *Moose* Waten, the fellow who holds 
the all-time N. D. record for eating French 
fried potatoes, writes that he is working in 
his father's bakery shop in Oak Park. Illinois, 
that Paul Schanb is resting in his beloved 
foothills of West Virginia, and that *Peter* 
Sexton is selling insurance for the Chicago 
Tribune* 'Moose* also mentions that he has 
been out with Ralph MacDonald, but neglects 
to say what 'Mac* is doing or not doing. 
"Nick Lambcrto writes that he and Phil Kirch are working as copy boys on the Chi­cago Hex. Nick passes along the following Chicago news: Bob Gartland is working for Marshall Field & Co.; Ed Brennan is selling advertising for the Neiv World (Chicago*s Catholic weekly); John Boarke is employed by Commonwealth Edison Co.; and Chuck 0*ReiIly is working for the Local Loan Co. 
"Jack Anton came through w^ith this news: 'Hank Prusha is working for his father in the wholsalc meat business. Babe Kelly has been on the Kelly farm all summer. Jack Tholis was errand boy for the law firm of Mclnemey, Epstein & Avery this summer; he enters DePaul Law School in the Fall. Joe Race tried out for the Chicago Cardinals football team, but was told that he was too small. Chuck O'Reilly played with the Eastern All-Stars against the Bears. Andy Pupils was married a few days after the All-Star game to Dorothy Rezck of Chicago (Bunny Jfc-Cormtck was best man). Andj- and his bride will live in Crystal Lake, Illinois, where Andy coaches the high school team. Bunny will play with the Los Angeles Bulldogs, and will enter 
U.S.C. in January to get his teaching credits. Tom Gorman is working for the Chicago Rotoprint Co. Don Hickey, Leo Welch, Charlie Callahan, Rusty Johnson, Al Von HoUenback. Ed Browser, and Bill Robinson, were among those spied at the All-Star game. Incidentally the N. D. boys who pla^-ed for the All-Stars were: Pnplis. McCormick. McCarty, Rnetz, Knharich. and Sweeney. Sweeney set the all-time high in popularity. Dan Sullivan is an Andy Frain usher. Hank Pojman coaches the line at De La Salle in Chicago and works for 
the Wilson Steel & Wire Co. As for myself, I am still employed by the South East Na­tional Bank of Chicago.* Thanks. "Deacon,* for the newsy letter. 
"Bill - Walsh Hall - Mahoncy, who was last year's best contributor to "The Week.'" wrote along in July that he was entering the Do­minican order. He also included this infor­mation: George Kennan is working for his father in Bayonne, New Jersey: Fred Crollard is going to the University of Washington's Law School; Jerry Lcdvtna goes to Catholic 
U. for graduate work in Philosophy. (Inci­dentally, Ledvina got a blow from Time in their Letters DepL. this summer for submit­ting the best definition of the New Deal.) Bill rounds put his letter by saaying that Bert Smith, ex. '38, who loft N. D. to inves­
tigate conditions at Wisconsin, ended up at Louvain, and will be hack in the TJ. S. some­time this summer to take special work in psychiatry. 
"'Yesterday an air mail special arrived from TiKer McGrath. He says, in part: 'Johnny Buckley gave a huge engagement ring to Rita Crews who will be a senior at Rosary. Bob Tharinger is working for the Milwaukee Asso­ciation of Credit Men as a contact man. I'm still undecided where I'll go this year: I have a chance for a BRT scholarship at Catholic U., but I'm still registered at Harvard Law. Ted Knuman got a new Chevrolet for gradu­ation ; he and Jchn Monaco are going to drive to Law School in it every morning cither to Northwestern or De Paul. John Thomas is selling insurance, but I can't remember where.' During the summer "Hger* drove a delivery truck, and gathered the above infor­mation. 
"My old roommate for four years. Bod Sherwood, writes that he is a salesman for Coca Cola in Flint, Michigan. Don Hidtey sends word that he is working for his father, as is Charley Maculoso. Bill Botznm has en­tered the CS.C.'s. Tom Hutchinson, the old demon of the publicity ofTice who fancied him­self such a poker and pool shark, has been working for the Federal Entomological De­partment in Elkhart as a beetle catcher. Tom wants to start a weekly papar in Texas; he's now looking for capital. Bill Woemer from down Louisville way took time out from loaf­ing to drop us a three page masterpiece in prose. The only news he had, though, was that he is still unemployed. Jimmy BnTKesa sends the news that he has finally decided to return to N. D. for Law. He adds that Jack Solon, the many voices of Old Crony fame, is going to Wharton School of Finance (as is Dick Leahy, come to think of it). Vic Bedc goes to Michigan Law School, Anggie ZcU to the University of Washington Medical School, John Hurst works for the New York World's Fair, and Jack Crowley loafs in the rain out in California. Jimmy also mentions visiting Tom 0*Brien. but neglects to say what Tom is doing. 
"Ed Mattingly is a salesman for his father's produce company, in Cumberland, Maryland. Jake Lechncr. the luckiest pool player this side of Carroll "Rec." is working for the Arnold & Degnan law firm in the Bend. Ac­cording to my S. B. agents Lechner now has his picture in the paper twice as often as Big Bill Hosinski. Cliarlcs Dohnaiek is also working for Arnold & Degnan. Jake also in­forms me that John F» l^Iurphy and Bob Czizek have passed the Iowa bar; Bob is now working for his father's law firm in Dubuque, Iowa. 
"John Troskosky is taking a training course with Thompson Restaurant Co., in Chicago. Dan Ryan is reporting for the Chicago Daily News. Gregg Keegan is studying law at Washington University, St. Louis. Ernie Maurin is with the Midwest Oil Company, Kansas City. Kansas. Ed Cronin is still un­employed in Chicago. Don Smith is with Sears Roebuck & Co., Battle Creek. Michigan. Dick Thompson is taking the training school course of LaSalle & Kochs department store in To­ledo, Ohio. Johnny Murphy is assistant coach and teacher at the Union-Endicott High school, Endicott. New York. 
"Charlie Terry is in the training course with Dun & Bradstreet. Chicago, and is living at 5315 Drexel Boulevard. Dick Hennessy is with the Reilly laboratories, Indianapolis, and John Beer is working 65 hours a week for the Lane Drug Company, Toledo. Greg Kelly and Jerry CHfTord are working for the Local Loan Company in Chicago. Tom Garvey is a metallurgist with the Camegie-IlUnois Steel Corporation. Duquesne, Pennsylvania. Charlie Duke is staying on the campus to see the football games free aand continue his work between games with ftfaestro Pctritr of the Athletic Publicity Office. 
"Joe Kuharich and Han-ey Foster are as­sistant freshman football coaches. Chndc Sweeney is working for an oil company in Chicago. Gene Ely is coach at St. Mar>'*s High school in Michigan City, Indiana, and Ennto Arboit is the same at Spalding Institute in Peoria, Illinois. Pat McCarty is head coach at Ursulinc High school in Youngston'n. Ohio. Bill Branigan has a temporary state job in Albany, but is planning on law school. 
"'The above takes care of the postcards and all the letters that contain class news. Bill Dooley's placement data comes ne:ct. Most of 
SPECIAL TRAINS 
to 
Notre Dame Football Games 
NOTRE DAME vs. ARMY 
at New York 
Leave Chicago, 3:30 p. m., October 28th. Stop at the Waldorf Astoria in New York. Trains can be boarded at South Bend and Cleveland, etc. 
All expense trip from $^Q9 5 Chicago, as low as M.^ 
NOTRE DAME vs. SO. CALIFORNIA 
at Los Angeles 
Leave Chicago November 27th. Featuring: Juarez-Mexico, Palm Springs - California, Bilt­more Hotel - Los Angeles, War­ner Bros. Studio - Hollywood, Catalina Island and return via the world famous Grand Can­yon of Arizona. Delicious meals. Alumni escort. 
12 DAYS, as low as 
n56 
Write, phone or drop in for literature. Make reservations early. 
FORD'S 
TRAVEL SERVICE 
135 South La Salle Street Field BIdg., Chicago, 111. Telephone State 5511 
Edward J. Kelly, LL.B. '23 
Harold Cooke, Comm. '24 
"Ben" Oakes, Comm. '31 
Also SPECIAL TRAINS to the ILLINOIS. MINNESOTA and CARNEGIE TECH games at Notre Dame. 

this information was ;Tathered at the time you fellows filled those questionaires in the Alumni OflicG before i;raduation so. if there is a mistake here or there, remember that a lot can happen between June and September. 
Those back at K. D, for law are: Sam Bor­zillcri, Leo Boyle. Joe Crisanti, Tom Foy. 3Iartin Husunrr, Andy Tr>', John Vicars, Louis DaPra, Bob Grosan, Dick Bowes, and Fenton Mcc. Those taking Kraduate work at N. D. arc: John Cain, Lawrence Eby. Milton Eiscrt, l^wrcncc Hess, Carl Irx%'in, Frank lltzin, Joe Ludwif;, "Babe" Marshall {who is also fresh­man football coach). Joe Moshcr, Bob O'Don­nell, Charlie Welsh, Walt MonaccIIi. and Tom­my Wukovits (freshman basketball coach). Cartcton MacDoufrald. Jim ifcCarthy, Paul Anderson. John Clifford (New Haven). , and 
Burnett Bauer. 
**Other toys Eoing back to school: Dan Cochran, Har\'ard Business School: Bud Cul-Icn, Art Students Leairuc, New York: Art Davidson, Chicrico Musical CcIIcge; Bob Fem­bach, Cornell Law School: Jim FlanaRan. X. 
Y. U. Medical School; John Fojicl. University of Illinois Medical School: Dick Foley, Uni­versity of Detroit for EnKincerinff; Herb Gardner, University of Cincinn.-iti Law School; Joe Griffin, Indiana UnJver.sity Law School; Tommy Hushes, Ohio University Medical School; Frank Kcsickc, Columbia University; Francis Kirchman, 'M. L T.; Paul Locher, Har^'ard Business School; John Lunji^rcn, Uni­versity of Pennsylvania Medical School: Char­lie McDonouch, University of Michigan Law School: Dan Monaghan, University of Colo­rado Medical School: Tom Mullif;an. Har\'ard Law School: George Murphy. Marquette Med­ical School: Jimmy Murphy, Arizona Law: Charlie Osbom, Har\-ard Law School; Dick Scanncl, Northwestern (in conjunction witli a trainiuK course at Marshall Field & Co.); John Schemmcr. Har\-ard Law School; Bill Sixsmith, Pitt Law School; Francis Valctich, University of Michigan Law School: John Tobin, Chicago 3IedicaI School; llugb O'Doti­
ixclU Columbia Medical School: and Joe Ruetz, Uni%-ersity of California (and assistant football coach at St. Marj-*s College, Califor-Tiia). 
"Jim Bales is working for the Dixon, Devine and Bracken law firm in Dixon, IIL Tom 
• Bohcn is doing ha--;ic stock control work for the Golden.Rule Dcptirtment Store. St. Paul. Thlinncsota. Tom Bond is reporting: for the Franklin Chronicle, Franklin, Ohio. Johnny Braddock is a bank runner for the National Savings & Trust Co.. ^V.^shington. D. C. Chuck Brosius starts work October 1 with Haskins & Sells, New York. Charlie Cassidy works for his father's company in Denver. Colorado. John Cotlingham sells insurance for Penn Mutual Life, Cincinnati. Dave Connor sells insurance for State Life in Indianapolis. MeI%iHc Dark works for the Porfer-DeWitt Construction Co., Kirkwood, Missouri. Frank Dclanej- draws his check for tlie Midivost Bis­cuit Co., Burlington, Iowa. John DcMots is a collector for Intcrnntional Harvester out of Minot, North Dakota. Joe Drolla is connected with New York Life, New Orleans. Ed Eng­lish is w-ith Lisle & Selcer, Furriers, Sioux Falls. Iowa. Dan Gibbs works for his father in Holyoke, Colorado. Lou Giragi reports on his brothers* paper in AVinslow, Arizona. Joe Glcason is coaching and teaching at Catholic Omtral. Hammond. Ind. Tom Graves docs ac­counting with Haskins & Sells. Chicago. Tom Greene counts money for the DeWitt County National Bank of Clinton. Illinois. Ed Hager tunes pianos and organs with his father in the Bend. Phil Hoenc sells insurance with his father in Duluth. Minn. Bob Holtz and 
Jim Lahc3- sells insurance for Northwestern National Life, South Bend. 
"AI Horman is Euper\*isor of boys' recreation 

at the New Jersey School for the Deaf. Selling 
incubators for Hatchmaster Ck).. Lakewood. 
Ohio, is the easy task of Dick Jcnnj*. Tom 
Kavanaugh. first fellow in the class to an­
nounce his engagement, hopes to do advertis­
ing work for the MacManus. John & Adams 
Co.. Detroit. Tom Kinncaley is in Boston with 
the Miller Produce Co. Frank Larwood helps 
edit the South Bend ICctcs-Tiincs. George 
Laurc is with Scagrams^-of all places—at Louisx'ille. Russ honRon sells insurance foi Massachusetts Mutual Life, Cincinnati. Henrj-Mackin is with his father in the Maekin Ven­etian Blind Co., Kankakee. Illinois. Art !^Iaeh-Icr is working for the Paul Maehler Co., Chicago. Chris Mastcrson. way down at the Standard Oil Co. Eayway Refinery (New Jer­sey), does chemical engineering. John Doyle took over the management of the Doyle & Cunncen Men's Store, Perth Amboy, New Jersey, upon the death of his father. John McKcndry works for the Niagra Asbestos Co., Inc., Buffalo. Frank Meyers is connected with Intematiional Ifcir\'ester. Chicago. Sam Min­ella is in the law office of Judge William J. Malonc. Bristol, Connecticut. Charlie' Morrow-is in the purchasing department of Fitzpatrick Bros-, Chicago. An assistant in the order de­partment is Jack Moulder for the Cudahy Packing Co.. Chicnao. Ben Murdock is with the Aluminum Co. of America. 
"Bob O'Brien docs accounting for Brust & Co., Fort Wayne. Tom Quinlan is running the Cedar Grove Hotel for his mother way up in SIcepj* Lake. Bomoseen, Vermont. Francis Rus­sell is a p.irtnor in a hardware and electrical appliance store. Bob Sdimclzlc is no longer selling magazines in the caf: he's now prac­ticing law with Green & Wheat, Freeport. Illinois. Clarence Schumackcr is with the firm of the same name in Mishawaka—good old Mishawaka. Jim Scmctt has a job with the Minnesota Valley Canning Co.. Lc Sueur. Minnesota, as docs Frank Winter. Frank Smith is undoubtedly helping many of his classmates because he is with the Illinois State department of labor, unemployment compensation division. Ed Sncll builds Cater* pillar Tractors in Peoria, Illinois. AI Snia­dowski does preccplorship work for the legal firm of W. W- Knowles. Wilmington, Dela­
"Joe Stmad coaches football at South Bend Catholic George Sullivan is graduate assistant in the Phy Ed department at N. D. Jim Sulli­van attends wards for mental patients at the Pilgrim State Hospital, Brentwood, L. L, N. Y.: he is probably very much at home be­cause he delivered mail for Carroll—or was it Brownson 7—for three years. Cliff Tallman does sales promotion for the American Tobac­co. Co. Luke Ticman sells International Busi­ness Machines out of Chicago. Ted Trcfrer works for his father in Detroit. Bill Tunncy, has given up selling calendars, and is now trying his luck with Metropolitan Insurance Co., Chicago. Jim Walsh is in the hotel busi­ness with his father in Fairbury, Nebraska, the town where Robert Taj-Ior attended high school. Charlie Webster is in Midland, Mich­igan, with the Dow Chemical Co. Henry Ed­w-ard Wrapc works for the National Bank of Commerce in Paragould. Ark., wherever that is. Last, but not least, is our own Paul Psik who is coaching Ligonier High school in the metropolis of the same name (Indiana). 
"I almost forgot to mention that I am stiti unemployed. 
"See you boys at the Army game!" ' 

^v.^cv^vl^wR iwrfi ^ 
 can recommend all the Yo u 

Blackhawk Hotels with com­plete confidence. Their luxurious comfort at moderate rates plus the many conveniences of their outstand­ing service and gracious hospitality will never betray your judgment. 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS LOCATED IN 
Davenport, Iowa HOTEL BLACKHAWK HOTEL MISSISSIPPI HOTEL DAVENPORT 
Peoria, Illinois HOTEL JEFFERSON 
St. Paul, Minnesota HOTEL ST. PAUL 

Mason City, Iowa—HOTEL HANFORD 
,^V.A^* %''' OOM,, 
^V^^ •/' 
•YB.Y­

More Goods for More People at Less Cost 
H
AD the 7}4 million people who bought new radio sets in 1937 been obliged to pay 1929 prices for them, the total cost to the public would have been 5700,000,000 greater than it actually was. In fact, the 7}4 million sets of 1937 cost the public ^18S,000,o6o less than the 4 ^ million sets of 1929. And because radios cost less, mote people could buy them, and the purchasers had more money to buy additional comforts and conveniences. 
This is but one of many cases where industry-has found ways to make better products at less cost. For instance, the lli' million electric washers bought in 1937 cost the purchasers 2 million dollars less than the million bought in 1929. The 1,200,000 electric fans bought in 1937 cost the purchasers S700,000 less than about half that number bought in 1929. And in this same period hundreds of other manufactured products, because of improved manufacturing methods, have been reduced in cost so that more people can have more of the good things of life. 
This process of creating real wealth has brought to America the highest standard of living ever known, and it is this process which must con­tinue if even higher standards are to be attained. General Electric scientists, engineers, and work­men are contributing to this progress. By developing new and better ways to use elec­tricity for the benefit of the public, they are constantly providing More Goods for More People at Less Cost. 
G'E research and etighieerhig have saved the publicJrom ten to one hundred dollars for every dollar they have earnedJor General Electric 
GENERAL % ELECTRIC 
1938-OU R SIXTIETH YEAR OF MAKING ELECTRICITY MORE USEFUL TO YOU - 1938 
up-to-the-minute... 
mild ripe tobaccos and 
pure cigarette paper . . . 
the best ingredients a 
''^?¥^P^^^^-'; 
cigarette can have . . . 
thafs ivhy more and more smokers are turning to Chesterfield's refreshing mildness and better taste 
..millions 
/^. 
Capsi'tEtx I93S, liGcrrr & JIVIES TOBACCO CO. 









