The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
The Law at Notre Dame 
NOTRE DAME 
OCT.-NOV., 1969 

An interesting menu 
In this, our October-November serving, we offer what I judge to be a full, 
rich menu for your digestion. 
For the first time in quite a while we've incorporated two meaty features in the same issue, each dealing with an interesting facet of the University. 
In our cover story, Assistant Editor Sandy Lonsfoote delves skillfully into the story behind the ND Art Gallery, an out-of-the-way little comer in O'Shaughnessy Hall that deserves and is gradually receiving more recognition. And for those with an interest in the Law School and the exciting new direction in which it is headed. Associate Dean Tom Shaffer elucidates on the full law picture and its implications. 
Leading oflf the University section is a story on a most newsworthy event. Moratorium Day at ND. It was a significant occurrence across the country and it had a meaningful impact on our community here. As Fr. Hesburgh remarked, "It was one of the most moving and dramatic events ever to take place at the University." Student writer Bill Mitchell does an admirable job of covering the succession of events from start to finish. 
Another highlight of the opening section is an account of the recent deliberations of the Alumni Board of Directors. The board spent a power-packed three days on campus studying the overall situation at the University and will relay its impressions in the upcoming Regional Alumni Senate meetings. 
Once again, let me wish you an enjoyable and palatable journey through the following pages. 
Tom Sullivan Managing Editor 

IN THIS ISSUE 

University  p.  1  Graduate Schools  p. 32  
Alumni Speak  p.  3  On  Record  p. 34  
ND's Art GaDery  p, 10  Clubs  p. 35  
Class News  . . .'  p. 15  The Law at ND ....... .  p. 40  

Alumni Ask p. 45 

COVER: Dr. Thomas S. Fern's "Round and Square XIV," styrojoam squares on a painted surface, on display in the ND Art Gallery during Fern's one-man show. 
VOL 47 Oct-Nov, 1969 
James D. Cooiicy 
ExECUTJVE SEOtETARY 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION John P. Thurin '59 EDITOR Tom Sulli\*uti '66 MANAGING EDITOR Sandra Lonsfoote 
ASSISTANT EDITOR Caroline Hambuiser Bill Mitchell '71 John McDcrmolt '70 
EDITORIAI. ASSISTANTS 
M. Bruce Harlan '49 CHIE F PHOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Richard A. Rosenthal '54 
HONORARY PRESIDENT 
Leonard H. SIcosIund '38 
PRESIDENT 
Edu-ard G. Cantwell '24 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
Edu-ard B. Fitzpatrick Jr. '54 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
John J. Reidy '27 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 
Edu-ard G. Cantwell '24 (PuBUC REIATIONS AND DEX-ELOPHENT), 700 Binns Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43204 
Edward B. Fitzpatrick Jr. '54 (STUDENT AF ­FAIRS), Wishing Well Farm, Old Brook­viUe, N.Y. 11545 
John J. Reidy '27 (ACADEMIC AFFAIRS), 11850 Edgewater Dr., Lakewood, Ohio 44107 Richard A. Rosenthal '54, P.O. Box 200, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 (ATHIETIC, SENATE REL.ATIONS). 426 Dover Ave., LaGrangc Park, III. 60525 
DIRECTORS TO 1971 W, Jerome Kane '38, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Wash. 98124 Walter M. Langford '30, 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42, 1113 Rocky River Rd., Houston, Tex. 77027 Francis J. Wilson '28, 6105 Howe St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
DIRECTORS TO 1972 Robert A. Eritins '47, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Afassman '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 Bldg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 Robert L. McGoIdrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 Leonard H. Tose '37, 64 W. 4tli St., Bridge­port, P4. 19405 
1969 Notre Dame AI-UMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without w-ritten permis­sion is prohibited. 

The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is publbhcd monthly, except January, March, May, August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

UNSWEMSSTY 
Moratorium Day march on main quad. 




October 13,1969 
David Darst), Tom Henehan, Tim MacCarry and William McEIroy. 
The six men stood before the altar and, with St Mary's senior Karen Weller assisting Douglass, ripped up their draft cards and dropped the pieces in a basket held by Rev. David Burrell CSC, who had delivered the homily. Following the offering, a group of musicians from Moreau Seminary led the con­gregation in singing "If I Were Free." The seven stood to the right of the altar with arms locked. They said they would send the pieces of the cards to U.S. Attorney General John Mitchell with the demand that "the U.S. government either recognize the truth in Viet­nam and cease its killing in the name of America or that it inflict suffer­ing on us for openly breaking the law which enforces that killing." 
More than 2,000 members of the ND-SMC community took part in the nationwide observance of the Oct. 15 Vietnam Moratorium, probably the largest demonstration for peace in ND's history. Overall campus reac­tion to the observance was varied. 
The events leading up to and surrounding the Moratorium included talks by leading peace advocates, an all-night prayer vigil, a memorial procession and a concelebrated Mass. 
Seven of the 2,000 participants face federal prosecution for making "an offering of life through resistance" at the Offertory of what organizers termed a "resistance" Mass, con-celebrated by a Jesuit archbishop and eight priests. 
Explaining that "our actions here today derive from our belief in life, the life of God's love and its expression in man's life," the Offertory procession of six men and a woman walked to the altar and tore the men's Selective Service cards in half. In a prepared statement, the group also said: "The Selective Service System, by conscripting and channel­ing young Americans into the service of mass killing, reveals itself as a greater evil than the idolatry which the early Christians refused to render to Caesar." 
Main celebrant for the Mass, which highlighted ND's observance of the Moratorium, was English Archbishop Thomas D. Roberts, a leading spokesman for peace at Vatican II. Participants in the act of civil disobedience included James Douglass, assistant professor in nonviolence at ND; Peter Smith, assistant professor of mathematics at St. Mary's; and four ND students 
— Chuck Darst (brother of Bro. 
The Mass, which marked the formation of the Notre Dame Resistance—a group consisting of the seven as well as their supporters— and several other Moratorium activities were sponsored by the new program for the study and practice of nonviolent resolution of human conflict and coordinated by the student-faculty Coalition for Political Action. Other concelebrants of the Mass were Fathers Ernest Bartell, John Gerber, Maurice Amen, William Lewers, John Corcoran, John A. O'Brien and Raymond Runde. The Moratorium at ND in­cluded talks by U.S. Senator Charles Goddell (R., N.Y.), who discussed his bill to make December of 1970 the deadline for the end of U.S. fighting in Vietnam; Christian Brother David Darst, a member of the draft­board-raiding Catonsville Nine; Michael Cullen, editor of Catholic Radical and a member of the Mil­waukee 14 (a group similar to the Catonsville Nine); and David Del-linger, a leader in the peace movement who is currently standing trial in Chicago on conspiracy charges stem­ming from disturbances between police and dissidents at the 1968 Democratic Convention. 
After Dellinger's talk on the eve of the Moratorium, about 250 ND and SMC students and faculty walked for. two and a half hours to most of the residence halls of the two schools in a candlelight procession for peace. Many students joined the procession, while others greeted its participants with obscenities, catcalls and such expletives as "Bomb Hanoi" and "Dirty Communists," and a substantial number opted not to participate in any of the Moratorium functions. 
At about 3 a.m. the procession entered Sacred Heart Church, where a group of Catholic Pentecostals was conducting an all-night prayer vigil for peace. The vigil continued until 7:30 a.m., when Moratorium Day broke bleak and chilly. Standing alone at the center of the south quad was a U.S. Army recruiting sign, apparently dragged there dur­ing the night. Attendance at break­fast seemed less than usiial—due perhaps to the announced daylong fast, peiiiaps to simple decisions to sleep in. 
University oflBcials had denied a request that the University "cease business as usual" for the Morato­rium, explaining that such a position would be "tantamount to forcing participation in a protest on some 
Above: Seven members of the NDSMC community offer draft cards at Mass. Below: ND students memorialize ND men who have fallen in Vietnam. 
who, in conscience, hold other views. Included in the University statement refusing a complete shutdown, how­ever, was the request that "no student be penalized for an absence 
from class on this day." 
There were many who did "hold other views." In addition to the pathetic who just ignored the day, there were many who regarded Mora­torium activities as either "propa­ganda" or "unpatriotic," and there were many who in conscience did not support the observance. 
Most of the day's activities centered around the religious implications of war, and specifically of the war in Vietnam, beginning with a late-mom­ing teach-in, sponsored by the undergraduate theology majors. While between 300 and 400 people listened to a dozen faculty and students speak at the teach-in, several groups of other students were speaking about the war at South Bend high schools and on the steps of the county courthouse. 
Many high school students left school and marched to ND in the afternoon for the main rally, which included talks by the archbishop, participants in the Offertory, and Cullen and Darst. Two critics of the 
rSp-J' 
Moratorium were asked to address the crowd of about 750 and were received warmly. 
At 3 p.m. the speeches stopped and the more spiritual part of the day began. Student organizer Brian Mc-Inemy took the microphone and explained: "The procession will be in silence and in mourning—a silent procession in mourning of the Notre Dame Vietnam war dead." The people gathered, black banners and white crosses dotting the winding procession as it stretched out across the south quad— past the Army recruiting sign, past the Rockne Memorial, down the steps to the ROTC building. A civilian trumpeter played taps as the 18 white wooden crosses were ham­mered into a patch of ground. A joyous cheer burst from nearby Lyons Hall. The Mets had scored. 
The crosses planted, the procession picked up again—bright banners replacing the black, singing filling the silence as the growing mass of more than 1,600 walkers were joined by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, who stepped quietly into the ranks. About 500 persons were already around the altar, set up on the grassy mall be­tween the stadium and the 13-story Memorial Library, when the pro­
cession rounded the comer at the old 
fieldhouse. 
The historic day had been brightened by an Indian summer sun and breeze. The procession surged slowly onto the mall, swelling to a congregation of more than 2,000. A couple of children played beneath a pine tree as their parents sat on the grass and watched the altar. More than one curious observer strained for a good look as the Mass began and, in many cases, the transition from ob­served to participant progressed. State and federal officials observed and photographed the Mass. 
"It is our glory as men," Fr. Burrell told the congregation, "precisely to be able to reflect and to decide. These seven have reminded us that we can­not escape our own decision." 
After the Mass, Fr. Hesburgh said he thought it had a "great deal of spiritual impact," and added: "I think it is important that we not just ape other universities. Notre Dame is a Christian university; we should do things in a Christian way—and I think that was done today." 
Asked what he thought the impact 
of the nationwide Moratorium would 
be, Fr. Hesburgh said, "I don't see 
how he (President Nixon) can help 
but listen." He said he thought 
President Nixon "wants peace as much 
as anyone." 
The ND president said he expects 
public reaction to the Mass to range 
from "outrage at what happened, 
to a feeling that it was very religious." 
Speaking at the rally, the 77-year­old Archbishop Roberts said, "You may be the only university in the world where the Mass is connected with the offering of draft cards— which may shock some people. But when you and I go to daily Mass, more often than not we celebrate the feast of a martyr who was put to death for some form of civil dis­obedience. We have learned from them that we ought to obey God, not man—and thinking about this re­moved any hesitation I might have had in celebrating the central act of our religion and the offering of draft cards." 
Fr. Hesburgh was asked if he thought the seven would be prosecuted. He answered: "I don't see that the law has any choice," and then added, "What was it that Thoreau said? Something like 'in times like these, the best men are all in jaU.'" 
'S ^i 
iASi 

Is this ^rhat it's aU aliout? 
by James D. Cooney, Executive Secretary, Alumni Association 
And so it happened . . . outlined 
against a deep blue October sky. 
And when it's all over, you sit in the 
lovely office which has been your 
home for a couple of years, and a 
torrent of questions pours through 
your mind. You know that there are 
aspects of this day that will seriously 
concern a number—^perhaps a 
majority—of alumni and others who 
somehow believe in this place. You 
know that ultimately you will have to 
answer many of these questions. 
And it's worrisome, not .because 
you're reluctant to face the heat 
which is so often generated from 
both sides of the kitchen, but because 
you think that something has 
happened here today for which you 
have no pat answer ... and of a 
sudden, you're more involved than 
you ever really wanted to be. And 
somehow the whole meaning of 
Notre Dame, for you, comes into 
question. 
You quiz yourself. You're resigned to the fact that the sweeping change and thrust for change that wrench our society are crystallized at places like Notre Dame. You especially know that the surge of change rushing through the Church ebbs and flows at a Catholic univer­sity. You recall that when you first came here you relished the thought of playing a pleasantly miniscule role in an environment you loved. The physical beauty, the warmth, the "magic" of the place were highly desirable. And you smile at all of this in retrospect, because it hasn't really been a comfortable association. The beauty belied the drama unfolding: the creation of the first truly great Catholic University in this 
hemisphere, or perhaps anywhere else. You remember your own admonition to a young employee a few years ago—that he was about to become a charter member of the "Crisis of the Month Club." And Hesburgh's statement of about that time: "When faced with a decision between peace and progress, I shall always choose progress. And that's why this shall never be a very 
peaceful place." You marvel again 
at the charisma which is his. Ominous 
words perhaps. But how they hit 
home today! And then you think 
of the celebrated seven with their 
draft cards .. . and the 7,000 not 
so moved. The worid around you 
and them is not very peacefiil. 
Should Notre Dame be tranquil? 
You think not, but your age and 
experience admonish that our brand 
of turbulence ou^t to be "within 
bounds." And some of what h^pened 
today was, you think—and you know 
others will think—"out" A federal 
law was violated, and in the course of 
the central act of worship of your 
faith. Shouldn't we have done 
something beforehand? 
It had been announced this thing 
would happen. It was a mere 
announcement until it happened. 
Then it became fact, and is now part 
of the history of ND. Perhaps the 
authorities here should have tightened 
up and refused permission for a 
Mass for Peace. The organizers 
called it one thing the participants called it another. Had you been faced with the decision, you're not sure what you would have done. A negative response would have driven the whole thing underground. But you also know that whether celebrated in the steam tunnels or Notre Dame stadium, the act would have been publicized beyond; That's another prideful peculiarity of this place— somehow, many people look to us. 
And what about the violation of federal law? That really "hangs you up," to use the local vernacular. You still adhere to the "if the law is irrelevant, change it" doctrine. But you also weakly recall your history studies here and remember that more often than not law has been abolished or amended not by virtue of academic investigaticm but because the people whom it governed had proved its irrelevance .. . by violation. And you remember Sorin directing a group of strong-arms to chop down a dam in 1853 because he believed it threatened, through water stagnatitm, the lives of his ccxnmunity. And Prohibition, too. And the impact of the 1950's lunch-counter sit-ins. You wonder about the seven who "did their thing." You are told that they were fully aware of the consequences of their act: five years of their lives. The Offertory may not be an in­
appropriate vehicle. But you're not sure. You know of at least one student who destroyed his draft card in the privacy of his residence hali room. So exhibitionism might be at work here. But then you remember the tears in their eyes when they finished doing it. And you know that there is no way you yourself would do, or could do, what they did. And so, who really has the guts? You in your pleasant office or they on the mall today? Or have you completely lost your perspective? 
The singular sound of a hammer grinding crosses into the soil of Notre Dame moved you also. Somehow, perhaps by dramatic reaction, it transported you back nearly 2,000 years to the same sound in another place. The Prince of Peace. 
You remember the "68 graduate to whom you gave the Southern Cal ticket a few weeks back .. . he was bound shortly for Vietnam. You posed the question to him about ND's Moratorium activities and the seven who performed "the act." And you remember the genuine response: "I don't know who they are. But God bless them." And your objectivity is swayed again. 
Most of all, you remember drifting away from the Library mall, which seemed still to resound with the tri­umphant recessional, and catching glimpses of the people of the place— the distinguished Jewish scientist, pockets of SMC gals with long, shimmering hair, the pipe-smoking Dante scholar, the smartly styled nuns of Lewis Hall, the incredible array of ND jackets, the intense, younger­than-you CSCs . . . the family of this place. For some inexplicable reason, you felt clean—not in the cathartic sense, for it wasn't in you; it was all around you. It was purity . . . maybe it's what the kids call love. 
On the walk back to the office you fixed upon the dome and recalled Sorin's pronouncement of over a century ago: "Look when this school. Our Lady's school, shall grow a bit more, I shall raise Her aloft, so that all men shall know why we have succeeded here. To that Lovely Lady, raised upon a dome, a golden dome, all men may look, and may find the answer." 
Out of the crowd then, a trio crossed your path—a bright-looking young prof and a pair of bearded youths in Army surplus jackets. One of them said: "Now I know what a Catholic University is all about." 
And you think maybe you do, too. 
Girls are more evident on the ND campns than ever before 

They're here and they're 
Walk around the Administration Building; you'll see some. Enter the Huddle and you'll see some more. They're in the library, the class­rooms, the. offices. Girls—in greater numbers—have come to ND. 
The University student—on both the undergraduate and graduate levels—meets more women in his classes this year at ND than ever before, according to a report issued recently by the Office of the Registrar. Almost 600 ND students are taking courses at nearby St. Mary's College, compared with only 149 last year. And St. Mary's girls are returning the visits, with 784 coeds enrolled in classes at the University, most of whom are taking two courses. Last year, 252 SMC women officially entered courses on ND's campus. The figures indicating a higher per­centage of mixing of the sexes in the classroom represent an expansion of the academic exchange program developed by the two institutions. 
In the graduate school, enrollment of women rose from 155 to 161; the Law School alone admitted 20 new women students, compared with last year's sole female. 
The report of enrollment figures 

Five iiaiiied to serve on ND Board of Trustees 
iveleoiiie! 
indicated that the Law School also showed the only gain among Graduate School colleges within the University, with 192 students enrolled now, com­pared with last year's 95. Othenvise, new Graduate School enrollment dropped from last year's 685 to 487, decreasing the total graduate student enrollment from 1405 to 1381. 
In other departments, the University admitted 114 more freshmen than last year and showed a total gain in enrollment of 83—from 7841 to 7924. Other than the Freshman Year program, the College of Engineering was the only undergraduate college with an increased enrollment. 
Five men. including the first Black 
trustee in the history of the Uni­
versity, have been named to ND's 
Board of Trustees, bringing the total 
number of men on the board to 34 
laymen and seven priests. 
Bayard Rustin, executive director of the A. Philip Randolph Institute, is the first Black to sit on the Board of Trustees in the 127-year history of the University. Active in the civil rights movement, Rustin, in 1941, was the first field secretary of the Con­gress of Racial Equality. He participated in the first Freedom Ride designed to test enforcement of the 1946 decision forbidding dis­crimination in interstate travel. In 1943, Rustin was imprisoned in the Lewisburg Penitentiary as a con­scientious objector and served a 30-day sentence on a chain gang in North Carolina in his struggle for civil rights. His report of this ex­perience, published in the New York Post, prompted an investigation which led to the abolition of chain gangs in North Carolina. The archi­tect of the first plans for the Southern Christian Leadership Con­ference, Rustin served as a special assistant for seven years to the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
Two nationally known men in the communications field and the pres­ident of the U. of Portland are also among the new trustees. Paul Foley, chairman of the board of McCann-
Fr. Waldschmidt. Jack Schneider and Paid 
Erickson, Inc., New York, is a 1937 ND alumnus who began his career as a Chicago newspaperman. He spent almost 30 years in the advertising field, including 13 years with McCann-Erickson, where he was a senior vice-president before assuming his present position. 
John A. Schneider, executive vice-president of the Columbia Broad­casting System, graduated from ND in 1948 and started his broadcasting career in Chicago and New York City. Before accepting his present position, Schneider served as pres­ident of the CBS-TV network and as president of the CBS broadcast group. Both Foley and Schneider are currently members of ND's College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council. 
The president of the U. of Port­land, Rev. Paul E. Waldschmidt CSC, is now a member of two of ND's governing bodies, the Board of Trustees and the Fellows of the Uni­versity. Fr. Waldschmidt graduated from ND in 1942 and received his doctorate in theology in 1949 from Angelicum U., Rome. He taught for seven years at Portland before being named president in 1962. 
Jerome W. Van Gorkom, another new trustee, received his education at the U. of Chicago. Admitted to the Illinois Bar in 1941, Van Gorkom is the president of the Union Tank Car Co., Chicago, and a director of the Stepan Chemical Co. 
Foley (I to r) join t\'D's trustees. 

Fourteen voices 
The weekend of Oct. 16-18 was the 
occasion of the fall meeting of the 
National Board of Directors of the 
Notre Dame Alumni Assn. Out of 
the deliberations of the 14-member 
board came a number of actions and 
recommendations which promised 
to have an important affect on 
University-alumni relations. As the 
governing body of the association 
and the "voice" of Notre Dame 
alumni, the board considered an 
agenda which ran the gamut from 
curriculum revision to postseason 
football activity, placement, parietal 
hours, draft card destruction and 
coeducation. The following is a 
resume of the board's agenda and 
actions: 
Thursday, Oct. 16— After lengthy preliminary meetings of the nominating and executive committees, the board session was formally opened with a luncheon meeting attended by directors and wives, as well as 15 members of the ND student body. Student repre­sentatives spoke of developments and problems in the areas of hall life, coeducation and student activities. Lively dialogue ensued. Executive Committee Report: A slate of 10 nominees representing five regions, with one candidate to be 
• elected from each region, was proposed by the nominating commit­tees of the board. The slate, a result of four months' effort by the com­mittees, which involved narrowing a substantial number of preliminary nominees down to the final 10, was approved after discussion. The national ballot, forthcoming in mid-November, will list the nominees with biographies on each. 
The board instructed the secretary and assistant secretary to establish closer liaison with counterparts at St. Mary's College in order to begin exploration of ways and means by which the two alumni associations might interact in view of the expressed and well-publicized intentions of the institutions on the academic level. 
A discussion was held regarding the nomination of some younger alumni to the board. It was generally agreed that such an action is desirable and that current board members working closely with regional senators should encourage such preliminary nominations. Placement: The board resolved that 
the services of the Notre Dame Placement Office, particularly as they relate to the placement of older alumni, be promulgated regulariy in future issues of the ALUMNUS. Academic Affairs: The board heard reports from Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, vice-president for academic affairs, and William Locke, a Notre Dame senior, on the progress of curriculum revision efforts. The board recom­mended consultation with recent alumni in future reevaluation efforts, on the basis that such alumni can offer an objective critique of the quality of their education. 
At its dinner session, the board heard from fellow director Professor Walter Langford, currently engaged in the establishment of Notre Dame's Sophomore Year Abroad in Cali, Colombia. Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC was the featured speaker. 
Friday, Oct. 17— Admissions: Current problems and procedures were aired by Admissions and Financial Aid Office staff members. The board resolved to increase emphasis through alumni club recruiting committees on the identification of minority, non-Catholic and science and engineering applicants. The board also resolved to encourage further development and standardization of alumni club scholarship programs in consonance with University need and policy. Student Affairs: The board heard reports from the University's dean of students and the director of student residence regarding the revision of the campus judicial code and the quality of residence hall life. Board members expressed serious concern and objection to the draft card incident on Moratorium Day at Notre Dame. 
Members of the Student Life Council addressed the board at luncheon regarding the activities of the year-old body. Religion: The University chaplain reviewed the programs of his office, including religious orientation, ad­vances, Antioch weekends, the new liturgy and the general religious attitudes of the student body, which he characterized as genuine and sincere but affected by changing trends in the Church. Coeducation: Dr. Robert Waddick, assistant dean of arts and letters, described the progress of the program and indicated that accomplishments have been achieved in the areas of administrative cooperation, trans­portation and the uniformity of class hours, academic calendar and grading system. Minority Enrollment: Three members of the ad hoc committee on Afro-American enrollment addressed the 
Alumni Assn. President Len Skoglund (center) talks with Executive Secretary Jim Cooney (left) and Past President Dick Rosenthal. 
Grant supports new program 
board and underscored the crucial need for increased recruiting activities and scholarship assistance. Continuing Education: Dr. Thomas P. Bergin reported to the board on plans for seminars to be offered to the alumni clubs "on the road" in early 1970. 
Saturday, Oct. 18— Executive Committee: The board granted final approval to a set of proposed by-laws prepared by Director John Reidy. The new by­laws are the first in the association's history. It was resolved that at its winter meeting the board would invite the officers of the University to a joint session in order to discuss matters of alumni concern. 
President Skoglund reported on the recent meeting of the Board of Trustees, of which he is an ex-officio member. He also revealed the names of three alumni who will serve with him on the University Forum, which will meet in November. 
A resolution was proposed, and unanimously approved, strongly urging the University to review its policy on postseason football com­petition, in the hope that such a review might enable Notre Dame to entertain such a possibility in the future. Donald F. O'Brien '42, of Houston, Tex., was elected president of the association for 1970. 
ND has received a $300,000 grant from the Frank J. Lewis Foundation, Chicago, to support a new five-year doctoral degree program in pastoral theology. The grant will be awarded over a three-year period. 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC, chairman of the University's theology department, said the purpose of the new program will be "to present the recent developments in the field of pastoral care, to give training in a clinical approach to pastoral prob­lems, to provide insights and tech­niques in order to establish a fruit­ful pastoral relationship with indi­viduals and groups, and to stimulate scholarly research in the field of pas­toral theology." 
The new program will enroll its first students in the fall of 1971 and will be the fourth doctoral pro­gram in the theology department. The University now offers the Ph.D. in three theological areas—Biblical studies, historico-systematic theol­ogy and liturgical studies. 
Emphasis in the program will be on clinical pastoral work in institutions such as hospitals or prisons, and the pastoral work will be closely super­

Muggier reinstated 
vised, Fr. Burtchaell said. The cur­riculum will be open to men and women, clergy and laity. Catholics and Protestants, but it is expected that initially the large share of students will be Catholic priests. 
"We expect that students who are graduated from the program will find their way into a variety of pro­fessional positions, from teachers of pastoral theology in seminaries to diocesan supervisors for parish clergy engaged in pastoral work," Fr. Burtchaell said. 
The Frank J. Lewis Foundation has built both the bus shelter and Lewis Hall Residence at ND. The late Frank J. Lewis, a Chicago businessman and philanthropist who died in 1960, received a Doctor of Laws degree from the University in 1954 at the same ceremonies in which his son, Edward, received his bach­elor's degree. Mrs. Frank J. Lewis, who died in 1966, was awarded a Doctor of Fine Arts degree in 1962. Edward D. Lewis, now executive director of the foundation, is a mem­ber of ND's College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council. 
The controversy-surrounded Juggler, a magazine of the arts which had its funds suspended during the summer, will resume publication at ND, according to Vice-President of Stu­dent Affairs Rev. Charles L Mc-Carragher CSC. Michael Patrick O'Connor will remain as editor of the publication during the year, Mc-Carragher also announced. 
The current controversy about the magazine began last spring when a poem containing a four-letter Anglo-Saxon verb was allegedly questioned by McCarragher. The poem was sub­sequently not printed, and another was substituted. After the Juggler's summer budget was suspended. Editor O'Connor charged that the suspen­sion was related to the incident in­volving the poem. 
The Student Life Council (SLC), on Sept. 22, recommended that the Juggler "be assured of continued sponsorship by the University." When Fr. McCarragher announced the resumption of publication, he stated that "we never had any intention of permanently halting publication of the Juggler. We merely suspended their use of funds for June, July and August when they weren't publish­iny anyway. We had planned to dis­cuss it again in September." He also stated that the Juggler would probably have resumed publication regardless of the action taken by the SLC. 
In a letter written before the SLC action on the matter, addressed to three students opposing the sus­pension of funds,' Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president of the University, explained that the mat­ter was one of financial concern: "The fact is that we are facing a deficit of over a half-million dollars in our University budget next year and must seek every possible way of reducing expenses so that the Uni­versity does not go under. In the course of these conversations, which involved all of the Vice-Presidents' Council, there was a long list of University activities which did not seem indispensable to the life of the University. The Juggler happened to be one of them." 
t^'^.
&E.SJ3SX 
w 


The tiuies they are a-chaugin'! 
by Richard W. Conklin 
Director of Public Information 
It"s June commencement, 1970, at the University of Notre Dame, and the first female graduate of the Law School receives her degree. She walks through the applauding crowd, across the campus and into the Golf Shop. She identifies herself as an alumna of ND and asks where the first tee is. 
As we leave this imaginary scene, the Golf Shop is in a state of apo­plexy, and our first female law graduate is citing something called the "equal protection clause" of the Fourteenth Amendment. 
I shall let the hundreds of Notre Dame male lawyer-golfers argue the legal status of the ND golf course's exclusionary policy. I shall be content to argue its propriety. 
The masculine atmosphere of Notre Dame grew quite naturally out of its solidly male history, but times are changing and some of the old campus proscriptions quite frankly no longer bear up under examination. 
With all due respect to those (such as ND's former alumni secretary Jim Armstrong) who still believe strongly in separate education for men and women, I think the handwriting, is, so to speak, on the campus vanity mirror, especially with 151 women at Princeton this year (and 91 men at Vassar). Through increasing coopera­tion with Saint Mary's, Notre Dame is taking on more and more of a co­educational look. I, for one, applaud the change. There are still too many undergraduates with adolescent, ex­ploitative attitudes toward women, born of Playboy and nurtured by the artificial weekend dating situation. Hugh Hefner's philosophy looks great .. . until you marry a "new femi­nist," and the best education for living 
with women is having more of them 
around in a variety of life situations, 
from classes to social action activities. 
On the graduate level, ND has 
welcomed women, most of them nuns, 
for some years. In these days of de­
clining religious vocations and lurking 
draft calls, more and more laywomen 
are coming for graduate study. In 
the case of the Law School, women 
are being actively recruited, and there 
are 20 in this year's entering class. 
While Notre Dame life was not likely 
to cause complaints from women 
used to the restrictions of convent 
life, the laywoman is more apt to 
look askance at such things as the 
lack of recreation facilities for women. 
There is also a steady — if not spectacular — growth in the number of women on the University's faculty and professional staff. There are 13 women on the teaching faculty, and if one adds librarians and other pro­fessionals, the figure is about 38. There are few staff jobs left at Notre Dame which women cannot handle as competently as men, and to show how broad-minded hiring at the Uni­versity is getting, two recent positions were filled not only with women but also with Michigan State alumnae. 
With the growing number of wom­en on campus — from Saint Mary's undergraduates to professors of the­ology — the University simply has to rethink it old masculine rationales. It can be painless — Bob Cahill had a smile on his face as he sat next to the first woman reporter to grace the ND press box, and such a reaction is preferable to the frowns-all-around at Yale where a card-carrying (fe­male) member of the Professional Football Writers Assn. was initially denied an exhibition game seat in the men-only press box. 
A chief concern is recreational facilities. A woman faculty member answering a solicitation a year ago for reserving "faculty lockers" in the Athletic and Convocation Center was told by a somewhat flustered building staff member that the notice should have read "men's faculty lockers." This year's notice carefully noted the lack of. women's locker room facilities in the building, but should not the University seriously investigate the possibility of adding some? And if nuns can swim in the Rockne pool during the summer, cannot some time be reserved for women swimmers during the regular academic year? 
All of which brings us back to the golf course. 
Three digerent views of Planner Tower. 


IVeir toirer 
In ceremonies including a Memorial Mass and a dedication luncheon, Flanner Tower, an 11-story structure which has given the ND campus a little of the skyscraper look, was dedicated Nov. 2. 
The new residence hall is a gift of Mrs. John L. Kellogg, Chicago, and a memorial to her son, Thomas U. Flanner III, a Chicago attorney who died in 1965. His widow, Kathryn, attended the campus ceremonies. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president of the University, was the principal celebrant of the Memorial Mass for Flanner on Sunday morning. After the Mass, Fr. Hesburgh blessed the tower, and students who reside in the hall conducted tours of the building. A dedication luncheon, held in the President's Lounge of the Memorial Library, completed the weekend activities. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president of the University, served as toastmaster for the luncheon . 
Designed by Ellerbe Architects of St. Paul, Minn.', Flanner Tower differs 

dedieatedl 
greatly from the first college dormitory in the nation with individual rooms, Sorin Hall, built in 1889. The decor of the new tower features slate and carpeted floors, combined with textured-fabric-covered and wood-paneled walls. All furniture within the rooms is portable, and air conditioning and hi-fi music are available throughout the bulding. The student rooms in the building offer a variety of sizes, shapes and ex­posures and are arranged around a central core of service and maintenance facilities. 
Mrs. Kellogg is a native of Battle Creek, Mich., and attended the Battle Creek Conservatory of Music and the U. of Michigan. Following the death of her first husband, Thomas U. Flanner II, she married John L. Kellogg, a former president of the Kellogg Co. and a son of its founder, 
W. K. Kellogg. Last year, Mrs. Kellogg joined the small group of eminent women who hold ND honorary doctorates when she was awarded a Doctor of Fine Arts degree. 
Jordan joins alumni staff 
Michael E. Jordan '68 has joined the ND public relations and development staff as assistant alumni secretary. 
In his new position, Jordan will assist Alumni Secretary James D. Cooney with major responsibilities, 
ncluding liaisons with local alumni clubs and their recruiting and place­ment committees. Universal Notre Dame Communion Day and Uni­versal Notre Dame Night coordina­tion and scheduling, logistics for Alumni Board and Senate meetings and class reunions. He will also be concerned with the relations between the ND student body and the alumni. 
Jordan's degree from ND is in government. While at the University, he was a member of the Honor Council, the Blue Circle Honor Society, the Frosh-Soph Cotillion Committee, the freshman and sopho­more class councils and the Young Christian Students discussion group. He was also involved in the Neighbor­hood Study Help program. 
Jordan attended the U. of New Mexico Law School during the past academic year. His parents reside in Albuquerque, N.M., and his father is an attorney, with both a bachelor's degree ('40) and an LL.B. ('43) from ND. 
Michael E. Jordan '68 
September grants 
Notre Dame received a total of $193,830 in September for research, equipment and facilities, and edu­cational programs. The largest grant came from the National Institutes of Health for the support of research into the genetics and reproductive biology of Aedes mosquitoes, which carry many of the world's most virulent diseases, including malaria, yellow fever and filaria, or ele­phantiasis. 

iVcffr ehairman 
At the national convention of the 
Interuniversity Communications 
Council (EDUCOM), Dr. Donald 
I. Mittleman, director of ND's Computing Center, was elected chair­man for the coming year. EDU­COM is an association of colleges and universities working together to apply modern knowledge of in­formation processing to educational institutions. 

Name atntititant 
Rev. Arthur S. Harvey CSC has been named an administrative assistant to Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president of ND. Fr. Harvey was the former head of the ND-SMC Theater. During his 14 years as director of this group, he produced nearly 50 campus plays and musicals. 

Burtehaett eteeted 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell CSC, chair­man of the ND theology department, has been elected vice-president of the American Academy of Religion, the largest professional society of religion in the U.S., with a member­ship of 3,500. Fr. Burtchaell will also be serving as program chair­man of the organization during the coming year. 

TMU cited 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC will receive the Cardinal Gibbons Award of the Catholic U. of America Alumni Assn. in Washington, D.C., on Nov. 8. The award is given to an individual who has "rendered distinguished and meritorious services to the Roman Catholic Church, the United States of America or the Catholic U. of America." 
i'­
%-'•' 

-^1 
}\ ^ 





A corner in O^Shaughnessy 
by Sandra Lonsfoote 
The Notre Dame Art Gallery doesn't really impress you with its size when you first enter it. The few observers strolling around don't actually give you the idea that on certain Saturday afternoons there will be more people in' the gallery than in the stadium. 
But don't jump to conclusions— your first impressions of the gallery might be misleading. During the past three years, attendance has risen nearly 250 per cent and the four-member staff—only one of which is full time—has created nearly 50 exhibitions, an astronomical number and unusual practice for such a small staff. Last year alone, over 50,000 people visited the gallery, located in the southwest wing of O'Shaughnessy Hall of Fine and Liberal Arts. The multimillion-dollar collection assembled in the gallery numbers close to 1,400 objects, although a visitor doesn't see nearly that number when he tours the gallery. 
Although it's been rather haphazard at times, the assembling of works of art at the University isn't a new thing, as there had been a small group of paintings from around the time of the school's foundation in 1842. A fire in 1879 destroyed all but one of the paintings from the early collection, and this survivor —erroneously attributed to Van Dyck and one of the most cherished works in the group—suggests that perhaps nothing of great value was lost in spite of the fact that such names as Titian and Raphael appear in the records. 
1917 was probably one of the more important years in the history of art at ND. By that time, the University had acquired a "collection of 25 canvases by notable painters, 14 original drawings and three pieces of bronze," according to the preface of the first catalogue. A 
purchase of 136 paintings was made in 1917 by the president of the University, Rev. John W. Cavanaugh CSC, from the vicar general of Quebec, who had evidently obtained the paintings from the Braschi collection in Rome. Although a list of the Braschi paintings exists in the ND files, it has been practically impossible so far to definitely verify more than a few of these works, since no identification was put on the paintings and original attributions were arbitrarily changed without record. AH but 74 of the paintings, according to the old catalogue, were dispersed to unknown locations, an event which also went unrecorded. The original Braschi inventory, of course, glows with famous names, but while these attributions are undependable, some of the works that can be confidently traced to the Roman purchase are now exhibited as fine examples of lesser-known painters. While the character of the purchase was thus generally disappointing, the few gems make the loss of the other 62 works particularly frustrating. 
But the Brashi paintings formed the nucleus of the ND collection and stimulated interest in adding to the works of art in the years between the two wars. By 1925, the collection had grown to about 224 works and was housed in four rooms of the library, called the Wightman Memorial Art Gallery. 
The collection was moved to its present quarters in 1953 and, for the first time, was placed in a controlled environment and under professional care. The name was changed to the Art Gallery of the University of Notre Dame. 
Shortly before the collection was moved. Professors Hans and Erica Tietze were asked to study it and 
Emil Nolde's "Head of a Prophet," on loan from the Lessing J. Rosenwald Collection of the National Art Gallery, Washington, will be one of the woodcuts on display in ND's German Expressionist exhibition. 
gave up the idea of attracting numerous visitors from 1:30 to 4:00 on football Saturdays, but it's still making its appeal before and after the games, on weekdays and on Sundays. This year, making that appeal has led gallery Director Rev. Anthony J. Lauck CSC and Curator Dean A. Porter to plan several unusual and varied exhibits, as well as to display as much of the permanent collection as is possible. 
ND's present collection of art works has been amassed principally through the aid of the University's benefac­tors. In fact. Curator Porter estimates that 95 per cent of all new acquisitions are gifts from friends of ND. The budget for additions to the collection is nominal, according to Porter, and doesn't permit purchases of prime works of art. 
Regardless, the collection continues to grow, and the type of art show offered by the gallery continues to improve. In July, the gallery opened the most unique exhibit ever held at ND and probably one of the most unusual exibitions ever given in the entire country. Mr. and Mrs. Eric de Kolb, New York collectors, honored the University and the gallery by granting them the privilege to be the first to display their collection of 
Top: An overall view of the Eric de Kolb collection, "The Ma­donna and Child in Romanesque Art." Bottom: Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president of the University, and Dr. and Mrs. Thomas S. Fern greet visitors during the opening of Dr. Fern's one-man exhibit at ND. 
make recommendations for elim­inating all works of inferior quality. Their goal was to define a group of exhibitable paintings and another larger group of study works. All of the obviously inferior works, consisting for the most part of awkward copies, were to be sold. The program of the Tietzes was never completed, but their notes formed the basis for the coming-of-age of the ND collection a few years later. The use of recognized authorities in all decisions of attribution and exhibition has been continued. 
There have been several important donations to ND's gallery since World War II. The first of the larger donations in recent times came in 
1951 from the Fisher collection in Detroit, which added a necessary core of first-rate paintings to the ND holdings. After the Fisher bequest, the most important group addition to the Art Gallery was the gift of the Samuel H. Kress Foundation Study Collection, 17 paintings and one sculpture presented in 1961. 'The most significant large gift of 20th­century. painting came to the University from G. David Thompson, a collector whose generosity was a strong incentive to build up the 20th-century collection. 
Like many of the "smaller" comers on campus, the Art Gallery long ago 
Right: This still life, "Cavalcana," by Stanley S. Sessler, a faculty member of the ND art department, will be one displayed in the exhibition "Stanley S. Sessler in Retrospect." 
Giorgio Vasari's "Annunciation," from the gallery's permanent col­lection, will he on display during the exhibition "The Age of Vasari." 
Madonna and Child wood sculptures. Fifty-nine sculptures, dating from the 11th to the 13 th centuries and representing virtually every wood-sculptural tradition in Western Europe during the medieval period, are on display. For an appropriate atmo­sphere for the display, the gallery's design specialist, Richard-Raymond Alasko, and preparator Frederick L. Geissel have re-created the religious mystery of a medieval chapel dedicated to the- Virgin. 
An exhibition assembled from numerous collections in the country will open in December at the gallery, presented by Fr. Lauck. Entitled "The German Expressionists and Their Contemporaries: 50 Years of Fantasy and Frenzy," the exhibit focuses on the revolutionary develop­ments in German art during the early part of the 20th century. Fr. Lauck has selected paintings, drawings and graphics to illustrate the various trends that existed in and around problem-ridden Germany during the period. 
Opening the 1970 year for the Art Gallery will be an exhibit concentrat­ing on 16th-century post-Renaissance Italy. The staff members of the gallery have investigated and prepared for four years for this exhibit and will present their findings through the show. Focal person of the exhibi­tion is the celebrated artist-biographer Giorgio Vasari, an intimate friend of Michelangelo. "The Age of Vasari" will probably be one of the largest exhibits at ND, as sculptures, paintings and drawings from over 69 North American and European museums have been committed to the show, which is specifically designed for the University audience. It is structured to define and clarify the 16th-century Italian phenomenon called Mannerism. 
The final major exhibition for the '69-70 academic year will be in April and will feature the works of Stanley S. Sessler, who will be retiring after 40 years of teaching and admin­istrative work in ND's art department. The works displayed will examine Sessler's intrepretation of nature, the still life and the human form. For 23 years, Sessler was the chairman of the art department and while teaching art also had the time to paint and create national recognition for himself as an artist. 
In addition to its special exhibitions, the Art Gallery will continue to feature portions of its permanent collection. Currently on display are over 500 sculptures, representing virtually every sculptural tradition. An exhibition opening in November, "The Sense of Form in Art," will explore numerous methods in which artists have created or negated the third dimension. 
To change the flavor of the typical exhibit, the gallery has planned a show entitled "Conservation at Notre Dame" to illustrate the University's care of the permanent collection. Over the past 12 years, an active program of returning paintings and sculptures to their original condition has been maintained at the gallery. Photographs of paintings taken before restoration, illustrating damage, films 
Curator Dean A. Porter and Preparator Frederick L. Geissel in the Art Gallery. 
of varnish and dirt, will permit the viewer to see the radical change made when a painting is properly treated. 
There will be a lot to see this year at the gallery, but there will also be a lot that won't been seen. Many of the objects that are now owned by the University are infrequently seen by the public. "We have an unusually fine collection, unfortunately much of which is stored in vaults because of the lack of exhibit space available," Curator Porter contends. The gallery, in his opinion, should have approximately three times as much exhibit space as it now has to be able to display its collection adequately. For professional guidance and suggestions, the Art Gallery has recently established an Advisory Council, comprised of 14 individuals prominent in art circles. Council members visit the gallery regularly, critically evaluate the University's collection, make sugges­tions concerning means of improving the collection and generally serve as advisers for the gallery. 
The Art Gallery's functions go well beyond sponsoring special exhibits at ND. Art works are made available for use in student courses to provide firsthand experience in appreciation and scholarly inquiry into problems of research. A program of lectures is scheduled to enhance the meaning of the collection. The gallery even helps the struggling interior decorators in some of ND's administrative offices by keeping 35 paintings on hand for loan purposes. 
Probably for all of these reasons the ND Art Gallery is rapidly becoming a popular campus attraction —regardless of how many people pack themselves into the stadium on football Saturdays. 
Top: Max Beckman's "Bath in August" will be lent to nD By the Catherine Viviano Gallery for "German Expressionists and Their Contemporaries." Bottom: John Balsley's "Self Portrait of Me" was one of 40 con­temporary works of art selected by students for the exhibition "Contemporary Art in the Midwest." 
Project HOPE volunteers at work rejurbishing houses. 


There is HOPE after aU! 
Ask any resident of Wheaton, 111., what the word HOPE means to him. If you happen to ask a family like the Boyds you're likely to get a lengthy, enthusiastic reply that tells how a deserted mother with eight children went from poverty to happy, pleasant life. 
Then if you ask Philip Chinn '55, John Waters '38, Mike Kelly '40 and John Ladner '59, you'll find the reasons for Mrs. Boyd's enthusiasm. Chinn is president of HOPE, Inc., Waters & Kelly are board members and Ladner is the attorney. H-O-P-E is short for Homes of Private Enter­prise, a nonprofit corporation that uses contributions to purchase old, run-down homes, then rehabilitates them with volunteer labor and donated materials. Upon completion, the group rents them to local families on public aid who cannot find adequate housing. 
"Our intent," remarks Chinn, "is to help these families so that they may help themselves in the future. Obviously, adequate housing is one of the first steps in providing a measure of stability which can lead to independence." 
And Mrs. Boyd is a perfect example. She and her eight children wsK crammed into a two-room converted garage from which the city was about to evict them. Before the city had time to file eviction papers, the water pipes froze and they were forced to move out immediately. 
The family found temporary shelter in a convent but soon faced the prospect of being separated. Enter Phil Chinn and a number of other Wheaton residents. The group tried to find a house for the Boyds but met with no success. 
"We finally said if we can't find a home let's raise money to buy one," relates Chinn. And that's how HOPE began. 
Today, Mrs. Boyd and her eight children are living together in a four-bedroom house. HOPE owns the house and Mrs. Boyd's rent covers the mortgage payments and the other monthly expenses. 
"She's completely different in spirit," says Chinn. "She had been like a whipped dog. Now she feels 
it's her house, and she takes care of 
it like it's her house," he explains. 
"It's like being let loose. There's a 
lot of room," says Mrs. Boyd 
cheerfully. 
In the 18 months it has been in existence, HOPE has purchased four homes and has a waiting list of eight families. And it has grown on the other side of the ledger also. It now has an I8-member board of directors to guide it, 50 families that contribute to it, and students from St. Michael's Catholic Church, seminarians from Maryknoll Seminary and members of the Wheaton Ministerial Assn. that help refurbish the run-down houses. 
"Most people in HOPE aren't the old charitable type. They're young and liberal," Chinn explains. "Their common denominator seems to be that they are unwilling to admit that nothing can be done about poverty." 
Chinn insists that HOPE "is not trying to run people's lives for them. We are neighbors who are ready and willing to respond." That could be what society needs a little more of. 
nS SORIN CITIZEN REPORTS The following letter was received from Judge WILLIAM M. CARROLL SR. LL.B. '15, who resides at 621 W. Judd SL, Woodstock, HI. 60098: "Thanks for the birthday remembrance — it was my 75th. How time flies. It seems only yesterday that I was a citizen of good old Sorin Hall. I have been attending the 50-year reunions regularly and enjoy them all. This year we missed RED MILLER and BILL SCHMITT. 
".. . I am still serving on the circuit court bench, where 1 have been for the past 25 years. My oldest son, BILL JR. 
LL.B. '43, is a lawyer here in Woodstock. The other son, JAMES P. '52, lives in South Bend. He is a public relations con­sultant and part-time teacher at ND. I have no other direct descendants, but 1 do have 11 grandchildren. 
"I do manage to get to at least one football game each year. Their appeal has lessened somewhat. 1 am still living in the area where I was born — it has been good to me. Like all old ND men, I marvel at the campus changes which have taken place since I matriculated there in the fall of 1912. Better yet, I feel that 1 have had the privilege of being a part of its growth." 
HARRY J. KIRK '13, who resides at Carroll Manor, 4922 LaSalle Rd., Hyatts­ville, Md. 20782, sends the following news. "Dear Al: 1 assume you are the catch-all for news of UND classes of 1915 or earlier. My old roommate in St. Joe Hall and one of my classmates of 1913, BERNARD J. DURCH, died Aug. 10, 1969, in Chippewa Falls, Wis., his home town. 
"While at ND, he was the captain of Company F from 1912-13, and at graduation he became a lieutenant. He later was a captain in the Philippine Constabulary. Along with me, he was a member of the class crew of 1913. We were also members of the St. Joe Hall interhall football championship team of 1912, which had a record of not being scored against by any of its opponents. 
"He was a veteran of WW 1. On July 12, 1921, at Rockford, 111., he married Eva May Lundberg, who preceded him in death on May 16, 1963. He is survived by one son and five daughters. Also surviving are one brother, Albert, anil one sister. Rose, both of whom are living in Chippewa Falls." 
A note from FRANK E. QUISH '11, who reports that he now resides at Apt. 1008, La Fontana, 2800 N. Flagler Dr., West Palm Beach, Fla. 33407: "From my balcony we get a grand view of the Palm Beach Country Club and the Atlantic Ocean. As you know, Florida has become quite a ND state, with clubs in several cities, including one in West Palm Beach. I haven't been in touch with the local club yet, but 1 intend to be soon." 
DANNY E. HILGARTNER JR. 17, of 
P.O. Box 75, Harbert, Mich. 49115, stated in a letter: "1 am curious to know who gave you the information included in the '15 colunm of the July-August issue." 1 had to advise him that I gleaned it from the Chicago Tribune. 
Danny continued: "I was shocked and very sorry to read about ART CARMODY '15, who like his brother Mike was a life­long friend. Do you have anything more about him than you published? As you probably know, they had two other brothers who graduated from ND and two sisters from St. Mary's Here is a classic example of Art's dry humor. We met by chance after Mass at SL Patrick's Cathedral and went over to the N.Y. Athletic Chib for an early lunch. Art drew a deep breath after looking up and down the length of the main lounge, which is about half-a-block long, and exclaimed, 'Why, Danny, it's just like the Corby rec room.' Thanks again, Al, and I hope you are well and happy, about the two best things that are left for us senior citizens." 
From the Chicago Daily News, SepL 4: 
•Mass for JAMES J. KANE JR. '44, president of the Lincoln Park Federal Savings and Loan Assn., will be offered at 
9:30 a.m. Saturday in St. Hilary's Church, 2734 W. Biyn Mawr. He graduated from ND Law School and practiced law from offices at 111 W. Wadiington until he became president of the association. He served as master of chancery in circuit court from 1954 to 1957." Survivors include his widow, six sons, three daughters, his parents and a sister. The Kane family residence is at 6127 N. Forest Glen Ave., Chicago, 111. 60646. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. LaGrange, 111. 60525 

'17 LOUSY TIMING Yes, 1 got my check back, too — for the Michigan State game — and in the same mail came a solicitation for SUMMA. Rather inept timing, but I was told to brush it off; it was just one of those things. Too many orders, too many alumni and not enough tickets. Perhaps the answer is to stay at home and watch the games on TV; most of our big games will be telecast. 
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH and BERNARD VOLL were house guesu of CARLETON BEH when they spoke at a SUMMA meeting of the ND Club of Des Moines. Fr. Cavanaugh was the speaker of the evening. Distillery department: After that bit of alliteration, whatever happened to JOHNNY DANT, who was in Corby Hall around 1913 or 1915? — he's probably chairman of the board. And how about NICHOLAS WATHEN, a member of the Old Grand Dad family who was a Brownsonite about the same time? Let's hear from you, Nick, old boy. We aren't all dead or are we? 
And who else remembers the vision in red who haunted Louie Nichols' Cafe? We were tempted to use the tdevision phrase "flaunt it" instead of "haunted" — hey, that's a rhyme — to see if this magazine has a censor. Was she the one — one, what? — who eloped to Indianapolis with the president of the senior class, without benefit of clergy? Those who remember this scarlet episode of campus life can take it from there. 
We are told that the new 26-story Pick-Oliver Motor Court will not be finished for another year. How many 'I7ers remember the fun we had during prohibi­tion (What was prohibition. Grandpa?) in room 408 of the good old Oliver, now razed for this new project? What fiin? O yeah, throwing lamps out of the window and breaking plate glass mirrors. 
JOHN URBAN RILEY has returned with his daughter from his second journey to Eire. What a brave guy, with the air full of lead and how do you tell the difference between the Catholics and the Protestants in a street brawl? Elizabeth and PAUL FOGARTY have come up "nawth" from Ddtay Beach, Fla., to see some of the home football games. They are staying at the Orrington Hotel in Evanston, III. 
Dan E. Hilgartner 
P.O. Box 75 
Harbert, Mich. 49115 
*ll HE'S A MOVER TEXAS BILL GRADY sure gets around. He's been relaxing in El Paso and taking in the dog races. That AU-American Water Boy," MORRIE STARRETT, writes that he's been talking with CHET GRANT and FRANCIS WALLACE, BeUaire, Ohio 43!H)6, who would appreciate your favorite story about KNUTE ROCKNE for his book. On campus in June were three generations of Nigros, all graduates of ND: Dr. D.M. "MIKE" NIGRO; his son, EDWARD NIGRO; and his grandson, DENNIS NIGRO. 
I want to thank HUGH S. CARROLL, San Rafael, Calif., for his card and nice words. Honestly, your cards are greatly appreciated. Thanks go, too, to STEPHEN 
H. HERR '10, chairman of the board of the Citizens Bank of Chatsworth, 111., who writes that he did not see any 1910 class­mates at the June reunion. He did see Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS, pastor of St Malachy's Rectory, Rantoul, 111., whom he had known for many years. Stephen is in his 60th year at the bank. "The good Lord willing," 1 hope to see him next year at the SO-Year-Club leiuiioiL 
BERT SENG pushes that Continental all over. His last card was from Edgerton, Wis. Seng looks good and enjoys the best of health, as does that quarter-miler JOHN VOELKERS. Dr. NEIL J. "WHITEY" WHALEN and Rosemary have been off to Rockland, Maine, and, like the BEHs, will attend home football games. 
Truly sorry to receive the following: "Just a brief note to let you know that my father, FRANK B. MARSHALL, passed away at 66 years of age in February, 1967. He is survived by three sons, one daughter and his second wife (my mother died in 1965). He is still missed, but died happily, I feel sure. Richard Frank Marshall." 
Had a note from JOHN A. LEMMER, which I will quote in part. "Rev. Robert 
W. Dundon SJ, son of Mr. and Mrs. EJ. (NED) DUNDON, Iron Mountain, Mich., was ordained June 4, 1969, at the Jesu Church, MSwaukee. His first Mass was in Iron Mountain on June 14." Congratulations Ned. We need all the help we can com­mand when we knock on the Peariy Gates. When they stop me, I'm all set to say I'm looking for or waiting for Rev. Charies J. Williams, whom I knew at ND. 
Birthday greeUngs to: JAMES P. LOGAN '18, 2951 S. FOlmoie Way, Denver, Colo. 80201, Nov. 4; PAUL J. FOGARTY '17, somewhere in Florida, Nov. 8; THEODORE C. RADEMAKER '19, 154 W. 6th St, Peru. Ind., Nov. 9; GEORGE B. REIN­HARDT '17, 301 W. 51st St., Kansas City, Mo., Nov. 12; RAY C. WHIPPLE '18, 373 Western Ave., Joliet, Ul. 60435, Nov. 14; FRANK X. RYDZEWSKI '18, 8355 Buriey Ave., Chicago, ID. 60617, Nov. 16; FRANCIS A. ANDREWS '18, 424 Missouri St, Fairfield, Calif. 94533, Nov. 22; WILLIAM J. ANDRES '18, 410 Dorchester Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14610, Nov. 23; CHARLES W. BACHMAN '17, II Siuiset Lane, Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062, Dec. 1; ROBERT E. HUBER '19, 405 West St, Dowagiac Mich., Dec. 7; FRANK M. KIRKLAND '17, 950 S.W. 21st St., Portland, Ore. 97205, Dec. 15; CARLETON D. BEH '17, 5323 Waterbury Rd., Des Moines, Iowa S0312, Dec. 18; EDWIN T. BREEN '18, 1542 Sherwin Ave., Chicago, III. 60626, Dec. 21; PAUL 

E. EDGREN '18, 701 Culberton Dr., Oklahoma City, Okla. 73105, Dec. 28; Dr. RENE RODRIGUES '18, 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80205, Dec. 31. 
And happy wedding anniversaries to: EDWARD 1. KENNY '18, 74 Cameron Ave., Hempstead, N.Y. 11550, December; Paul E. Edgren '18, 701 Culberton Dr., Oklahoma City, Okla. 73105, Dec. 24; BRAULIO A. MUNECAS '16, 10084 Berg­man St., Huntington Woods, Mich. 48070, Dec. 30. 
Hope you all are planning to return to campus this June. Will be nice "breaking bread" with you at the 50-Year-Club reunion. 
May you live to be 100 and enjoy it. Peace. 
George B. Waage 3305 Wrightwood Ave. Chicago, III. 60647 
'19 ON THE MEND 
I received a letter from LEO V. DU­BOIS, who apologized for not making the reunion. Leo was in the hospital from the middle of May until the middle of June and had been confined to his residence until a few weeks ago. The doctors told him he was afflicted with Paget's disease, a lack of calcium in the bones. Although he is forced to wear a brace, Leo's illness has not gotten him down 
Another classmate has also been out of commission for a while. GEORGE B. REINHARDT was hospitalized in June for four weeks with a kidney infection. He reports that he's "on the mend" now but is taking things easy. We wish both George and Leo speedy and full recoveries. 
It is with great sadness in my heart that I write you that my beloved wife, Dorothy, passed away Sept. 11, at age 72. My son, THEODORE C. RADEMAKER JR. '46, and his wife, Nancy, and four grand­children survive. You will recall that Dorothy was with us at the recent 1919 50th class reunion and enjoyed every minute of it. After 46 years of wedded life with Dorothy, I can only thank Cod that He has permitted me to have her inspiring companionship for these many happy years. 
MAURICE CARROLL wrote and told me about his new appointment to the president's council of St. Mary College, Xavier, Kan. He will serve as an adviser to the president of the college, along with Sen. Mike Mansfield, Sen. James Pearson and Robert O'Brien, chairman of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Maurice said he had a grand time at the reunion and thought some of the pictures he's seen prove that "there is still some life in us old boys." 
Ted Rademaker 154 W. 6th St. Peru, Ind. 46970 
•20 HE'S CONFIDENT The Alumni Oflke has advised me that it has mailed, to all class members, an up­to-date list of members and, also, its lists of unclaimed mail and of those who have died. SHERWOOD DIXON will be in charge of our 50-year reunion next year, and now that you have your lists, I am sure you will all cooperate with Sherwood to prepare for the event. I suggest each of you call others. Rooms will be provided at the Morris Inn, but notices should be sent out for reservations. Please bring your wife; wives may induce more of our class to come and they will enjoy a visit to ND. 
You recently received letters from HARRY NESTER and JOHN BALFE. both for worthy causes. 
The Alumni Office reported June 17 that HENRY C. GRABNER died Jan. 17. 1969. I called ALBERT UEBBINC about Henry who reported that he played on the Brownson Hall football team and received an M.E. degree. He was engaged in his family's bakery business. 
Al sounded, over the telephone, like one of the most active and exuberant inembers of our class and is very busy in consulting activity for several companies. He reports that the only other M.E. in our class is JOE ROSENTHAL, our class treasurer, and Al said he, at one time, developed the first diesel engine for Fairbank Morris. 1 wish Joe would confirm this, as now he is a banker. 
JIM TRANT writes that he is looking forward to our reunion with a great deal of anticipation and pleasure. He and his wife had the great experience of a five-week European trip, visiting Germany, Holland, Ireland and Rome. They spent a week in Ireland visiting relatives. He is again working full time, as his health is fine and he can't sit around. He spends a month in Holljwood, Fla., once a year. 
James H. Ryan 2470 East Ave., Apt. 314 Rochester, N.Y. 14610 
-22 THAT'S TRAVEUNG In late July and early August, FRANK 
•RANGY" MILES and wife, Camilla, were touring in Hawaii with a group spon­sored by the Knights of Columbus of Indiana. One very special feature of their return trip was a nonstop flight from Honolulu to Indianapolis in less than eight hours with 250 passengers aboard. 
Again God has called to his reward another one of those grand South Benders who was one of our key men in the St. Joseph Valley group. Atty. FRED B. DRESSEL died unexpectedly in his home on Aug. 24 at the age of 71. Fred was born in Chicago and attended the U. of Iowa before coming to ND. He married Frances A. Hager in South Bend in 1926, and the Dressels spent most of their married life in the shadow of the Golden Dome. We of the Class of 1922 are greatly indebted to Fred for his generous contri­butions in labor and time to make our .five­year campus class reunions so successfid. 
Others of happy memory who worked with him were LEO MAHONEY, GEORGE HENEGHAN, BERNIE McCAFFERY and AARON HUGUENARD. Fred was a member of the St. Joseph County Bar Assn. and the Indiana State Bar Assn. He was past grand knight of Knights of Columbus, Santa Maria Council 553, and Father Nieuwland Assembly, Fourth Degree K of C. Mass and burial were on Aug. 28, and two '22 classmates were pallbearers: Frank "Rangy" MUes and TOM "SARGE" OWENS. Another classmate, WALTER SHILTS, was an honorary pallbearer. We extend deep and loving sympathy to the widow and others of the famfly: Fred Jr., assistant dean of the education depart­ment at Ohio U.; Miss Joan C. Dressd, of Johnson City, Tenn., assistant dean of women at Teiuessee U.; and another daui^ter, Mrs. Daiyl EUison of Mankato, Minn. The Dressd famOy residence is at 996 E. Washington St., South Bend. 
The VINCENT HANRAHANs of Silver 
Spring, Md., were visitiiig Enjjand, 
Ireland and Scotland Has summer. 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe 
175 Landing Rd.. N. 
Rochester, N.Y. 1462S 
'24 DONT • £ HUMBLE We have a sad note to start with. We received the news of the death of our classmate, HUGH F. BLUNT, on Sept. 10. too late to kill the reference to him in our notes for the September issue. We had just inquired, via these class notes, what he had to report about himself or other classmates. A letter has been written to his widow by JAMES D. COONEY, our aliuuii secretary, and a Mass has been said at ND by Rev. Joseph Fey CSC on Sept. 14. Hugh passed away July 24, 1969. Many friends and fellow classmates win be adding their Masses and prayers. 
I just had a note from PAUL C. ROMWEBER, class of '25, in which he advises me of the death of WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD, "JUDGE," a member of the class of '24. Paul did not give me the exact date, but it was approximately SepL 
1. We send our condolences to his family. He and Paid, from the same area in Southern Indiana, were very close friends. 
The person bringing the most news to the public about ND in this area is our ex-classmate, Judge JOHN KILKENNY, just raised to be justice of the Federal Court of Appeals, 9th District. John will continue to live in Portland and conmiute for his judging responsibilities. He is so busy, I get my news from the newspapers, but he is always plugging ND. 
It makes me a little sad to have such meager news about our own class of "24. Don't you fellows want to see more names here? If you are reticent because of humility, send me some news about others. I hope we are not getting too old to retain our interest in each other. 
James P. Durcan 5400 S.W. SchoUs Ferry Rd. Portland, Ore. 97225 
'2t TAKING IT EASY Add VINCE PENOTE and BILL BROWN to the expanding list of classmates iriio have retired. Vince was president of the Cleveland Trencher Co. and Bill was assistant geiKral attorney of the law de­partment of the AIIis<1ialmeTS Manufac­turing Co. in Milwaukee. Bill is a fdlow considtant with your class secretary to the National Council of Cathdic Men. Please keep me advised of additions to the retirement list. 
Our dass vice-president, BILL DWYER, received a wonderful response to his re­quest for news from Midwestern dass­mates. Here are a few highlights from his letters. After a ID-year silence, GEORGE HANEY answered from Graiid Rapids, where he is in the school furniture business started by his grandfather. He has three children, one an ND graduate. He recently visited Bro. GORDIAN CSC (the former STUART GATES '27) at St Joseph's High School in Mountain View. Calif. 
GERALD F. (JERRY) McGILL is community service dttector for the Catholic Charities Bureau in Superior, Wis. He is 

Old f aees • • • iiei^ places 
FT. Bob Pelton CSC 
also a member of the Superior City Council and supervisor of the Douglas County Board. Jerry has three children. LOREE 
L. "DUTCH" CUNNINGHAM, after 26 years in Milwaukee where he was president of the Business Institute of Milwaukee, moved to Colorado Springs recently. Dutch is continuing as a professional national speaker, presenting 150 talks a year. His mother died recently at the age of 98. 
Despite market trends, WAYNE EWING reports that he made money on the stock market tips he received at our 40-year reunion. Wayne was planning to see the Southern California and Michigan State games. TOM MAHIN is back at his office with the Northwestern Mutual Life In­surance Co. in St. Paul after a nearly fatal coronary. Tom's son, a senior at ND, was in Chile this summer as a volunteer lay apostolate worker. 
I have arranged for the transfer of Judge TOM MURPHY of Detroit from the Class of 1929 to our class, where he should have been for the past 41 years. As you will recall, Tom was vice-president of our freshman class and treasurer of our sophomore class. Tom wrote expressing sorrow on reading of the death of WILLARD WAGNER, whom he held in high regard. We are looking forward to welcoming Tom back into the class at our 4Sth reunion in 1973. 
JOHN IGOE, who is in the brokerage business, reports from Columbus, Ohio, as follows: JIM SHOCKNESSY is sUll the chairman of the Ohio Turnpike Commis­sion and was conscripted by the governor to give his talent and drive to the com­irietion of the Ohio thruway; JOHN FONTANA is the hardest-working attorney in Columbus, and Federal Judge JOSEPH 
P. KINNEARY has been outstanding in his role; NORB SEIDENSTICKER, who has retired and lives in North Carolina, has a son at St. Louis Medical and a daughter at Manhattanville. John says he sees TOM HART and JOHN MURPHY, both suc­cessful in the insurance business, at Serra meeUngs. He saw HUDSON JEFFREYS recently. Hud lives in Ironton and is active in the strip mining business. John has a son at ND and two sons who are graduates. 
My reports from fellow travelers indicate that BILL JONES and VINCE CARNEY visited Portugal, and Bill and Alice went on to Spain, Italy and Belgium; Mike RICKS and Veronica were in Europe for two months visiting Naples, Rome, Athens and Amsterdam; BOTTS CROWLEY and Mary sent a card from Voss, Norway, Knute Rockne's birthtdace, advising that they were enjoying Scandinavia. Your class secretary Uimted his travels this year to Mexico. FRED SOLMAN and LuciUe wrote from Rome after having visited a number of European countries. 
GEORGE KELLEY and his wife escorted a Youngstown Vindicator tour party to Hawaii recently. It's a good thing George found a giil who likes to travel, for in less than four years of marriage they also have taken Vindicator tours to Europe and to the Caribbean. George is eligible to retire as assistant managing editor of the Vindicator, but he doesn't plan to put his copy pencil down for a while yet 
MAURY INGRAM is back in Chicago after eight months in hospitals in Louis­ville. After 34 years of private practice as an architect and engineer in Louisville, Maury is now with the design and construc­tion division, public buildings service. 
Rev. ROBERT PELTON CSC '45, teacher of theology on campus from 1953 to 1963 (head of the depart­ment 1959-63) and hall prefect or rector during most of this time, is now stationed in Santiago, Chile. After leaving ND he did a year of post­doctoral studies in Spain and was personal "expert" to Cardinal Suenens during the final session of Vatican 
II.
 In Santiago he served a term as superior of Holy Cross priests there and rector of St. George's College, a grade and high school with some 2,000 students. Currently he is a professor of theology at the Catholic 

U.
 of Chile, a member of the arch­diocesan council of priests and of the Chilean National Commission on Ecumenism and, since September, 1968, episcopal vicar for religious in the archdiocese. The last post is the one that now absorbs most of his attention. As the right-hand man in this area for Cardinal Silva ("an excellent man to work with," he says) Fr. Pelton is chiefly responsible for the reorganization and renewal of religious life in the archdiocese of Santiago. "My present work is really a building upon my N D background in a new culture and language. . . . The Chilean Church, despite its de­ficiencies, is a moving and dynamic one. . . . The environment here is hopeful and exciting." 


Dr. FRANCIS E. McMAHON, philosophy teacher in the '30s and eaily '40s, today plies the same trade at Roosevelt U. in Chicago. His ca­reer at ND, especially its termination, offers evidence that the issue of aca­demic freedom was not invented by the present generation of college teachers and students. Those were heady days, indeed, as Dr. McMahon 

and the late Rev. HUGH "PEPPER" O'DONNELL CSC, then president of the University, did verbal battle. The confrontation, well publicized because so unusual then and so much like David facing up to Goliath, revolved around the right of a teacher on a university faculty to speak his mind in public about the country going to war (WW II, that is — Dr. Mc­Mahon, a leading liberal, was for it). After considerable fanfare, our pro­tagonist detached himself, or was detached, from the N D community and moved on to the U. of Chicago. He was also a columnist for the New York Post and later became that paper's correspondent in Spain and Latin America. Again some fanfare accompanied his unwilling departure from Franco Spain, a development resulting from his liberal reporting, unwelcome in governmental circles. Subsequent activities, besides his 10­year stint at Roosevelt, have included representing the Americans for Demo­cratic Action at the U N and writing articles and book reviews for mag­azines, especially America and Com­monweal. He remains active in Catholic philosophical affairs as well as in controversial causes: Only last spring he was principal author of a widely publicized letter, signed by a number of Catholic philosophers, urging loyalty to the Pope and the teaching magisterium of the Church. Of his experience at Notre Dame 
Jie says: "One never forgets ND , its faculty, its students, its atmosphere. My 10 years there added up to one of the most satisfying periods of my life." 
Father John Wilson CSC Box D, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Dr. Francis E. McMahon 

General Services Administration in Chicago. 
Eleanor Coyne sent me a story from the Aug. 24 Washington Post with a picture of Judge WILLIAM JONES, who was given credit for authorizing agents of the Bureau of Narcotics to use electronic eavesdropping and monitoring devices, which led to mass arrests of suspected narcotics wholesalers and dealers. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt. 1007 
Chicago, Ul. 60626 
•29 DEAR EDITOR: Dear editor and your anonymous helpers: You probably sometimes ask yourselves, "Do members of a class read even their own column? Do they and their ladies and their families read columns other than their own? Do members of the clergy, faculty and former students read class news?" My reply based on recent response by readers of FRANKLYN DOAN's masterful *29 column in the July-August ALUMNUS is "Yes, they aU do!" 
I had no idea that so many read the class columns, but I have heard from numerous alumni, friends, faculty, priests and townspeople who agree that the Class of 1929 is very special and add their congratulations. It has been an over­whelming experience. Thank you, Franklyn, for your (surprise to me) column. 
Even one with the perception and skill of a Franklyn Doan would find it difficult to fully express in words the lasting and cumulative sense of gratitude and pride Margaret and I have for the members of the Class of '29. CLETE SCHNEIDER, Father OTEY, Father LOU, Father O'HARA, JOE LENIHAN — your guys are positively great. As you heard Joe so aptly say, ".. . they are full of surprises within surprises." They seek to serve and to remain unseen. It was a great reunion for those who were registered — and for those who preceded us to their rewards but were near enough to hear their names and to refresh their memories. 
We repeat a most sincere "thank you" to FRANCIS MEYER who did so much to give all of us a permanent record and reminder of a memorable weekend in sound and living color. Thanks also to IRV CORCORAN and TONY KOPECK.Y, whose Saturday renditions fully equalled those of Friday. 
From MICKEY McMAHON . . . "My only regret is that the (reunion) time actually was too short, after a late arrival Friday afternoon and leaving Sunday about 11:00, to spend sufficient time with all of those whom I was close to when I was in school. However, we can't have everything and I was glad that I returned, as I am sure the rest were, and particularly gratified to see the apparent good health, with few exceptions, of our classmates." 
Mickey continued, "I did want to let you know that BILL "PINKY" CASSIDAY died in late August after what I understand was a rather lengthy illness. I had not seen Pinky for quite some time, but I heard a few months ago that he was not in good health. As usual, I know you will ask the prayers of the class in your ALUMNUS column. ... " (We concur with Mickey's remarks and with his request for prayers, and extend the sympathy of the class to those who survive this true ND man.) 
Larry Stauder Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 '30 YOU'LL HEAR SOON We have an early request from TOM SULLIVAN, the reunion coordinator in the Alumni Office. He wants us to appoint right away the committees and chairmen needed to handle our 40th in June, 1970. The first planning meeting has been held with BOB HOLMES and other local members of the 1930 class, and information about the reunion will start coming to you very soon. 
The local committee will want your suggestions about making this event a memorable one. Also, they will be asking for your help in spreading the word in your geographic area to insure the best attendance possible on June 12-14, 1970. Please write us soon and make your recommendations about the reunion pro­gram. Also include in your message any news that you have for the ALUMNUS column. 
TIM TOOMEY is finding life back in the Bay State delightful. His new assignment is with the immigrant division of the labor department, manpower administration. He is located in the J.F. Kennedy Government Center Bldg., Boston, and invites class­mates visiting Boston to give him a call. Tim hoped to attend the Southern Cal game, Oct. 18, and help in the early re­union planning. He wants to have aU the priests of our class present for a con-celebrated Mass next June, honoring the deceased members of the class. 
LEO McALOON of Pawtucket, R.I., promises to be an early registrant for the 40th reunion. He should be a good regional salesman for the reunion in the New England area. FRED R. PARENT, formerly of South Bend, was elected president of the Santa Barbara Council for Retarded Children, which operates a school for retarded. 
JOHN E. DRElER's two sons are recent graduates from Union College and Colorado State. John Jr. is a geologist with Ken­necott Copper Co. in Arizona. NORMAN 
D. BRADLEY has retired from Con­solidated Natural Gas Co. He lives aboard his boat at the Erie Yacht Club in the summer and in Fort Lauderdale in the winter. Hmmm! JOHN H. MILLER retired in 1969 as director of sanitary engineering in West Virginia. No boat, John? 
The summer brought the sad news of the deaths of W. E. LEE PURCELL in Orange, Va. and of LEO J. SCANLON of Crestline, Ohio. They and their families should be remembered in prayers. 
Devere T. Plunkett O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'31 FROM HERE AND THERE I talked to ED RYAN, who sends his best wishes to all his classmates. CARL CRONIN and his wife were in Canada for three weeks, and Carl was over to make his weekly visit to Eddie last night. Ed mentioned that Rev. TOM BRENNAN, the team chaplain years ago, is in Ireland enjoying a well-earned vacation. LEO E. GARLAND is a frequent visitor to the campus and saw every home game last fall. CARL GAENSSLEN, now retired, was on campus in May to visit with BOB CAHILL and MOOSE KRAUSE in the new ACC. 
I had a card from DON MacDONALD, whose son Mike, the youngest of six, is a freshman at ND, and DON JR. is a '58 graduate. He mentioned that CLARENCE TAECKENS and his wife, Jean, were on campus for a regional bridge tounuunent held in the new ACC. MATTGARRIGAN phoned the other ni^t, fidlowing a Detroit au b affiur at the JOHN ANHUT tavern, also known as the Bostford Iim. Present were HENRY KOPEK. BOB MASSEY and MARTIN WIDER. Matt has a couple of sketches and articles on Knute Rockne which win be presented to the athletic section of the library. 1 had a visit with BOB PENDERGAST, who now is fully recovered from his surgery of last spring. 
FRANK HOLLAND saw DON OTOOLE at the Loyola Academy before the 1931 alumni reunion and spent a pleasant evening with him. I am sure there were many Loyola and Notre Dame people mentioiied. The sad note of this colimm is the death of Dr. JOSEPH HUGHES, Aug. 14 at Colinnbus, Ohio, where he had lived for many years. Please remember him in your prayers. Again, thanks to TOM MONAHAN, SPIKE SULLIVAN and Matt Garrigan for their activities in developing the reunion party for OcL 4. Best wishes to all and please continue to send news regularly. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, in. 60201 
'32 ERROR BRINGS NEWS One way to get news is to print a wrong address. I had a long letter from F. BADEN POWELL, whom I haven't heard from in lo, these many years. Says Baden: 
"Dear Flo: Let's change my address from San Diego to 308 Swayze, MarshaU­town, Iowa 50158. I finaUy decided there is no place Uke home. Attended UND Night in Des Moines and the Drake Relays and visited with MOOSE KRAUSE, guest speaker, and ALEX WILSON, my old teaimnate and classmate. I occasionaUy see FRANK CARIDEO in Cedar Rapids, where he is a top insurance executive. When I was secretary of the ND Club of Los Angeles, I used to see JACK WERNER and his lovely fanuly. Dr. ROY CATIZONE is or was so involved with the Hollywood crowd, (movies, etc.) that he retired from practice and I believe he's finaUy married. GENE CALHOUN was always on hand. Such great memories!" Thank you, Baden. 
Sadly I report that our wonderful class­mate, WILLIE WILLIGAN, died June 26, 1%9. I have no details. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Rd. Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
'33 ABOUT THE LADS OF 'Si As I write this, I am reminded that it was 40 years ago that the lads of '33 landed on the campus. Among other things, we didn't see the footbaU team defeated tmtil late in our jimior year. 
It was a personal shock to me to learn of the death of our classmate LEO W. HODEL, who died July 20, 1969. Several years ago, Leo told me that he prayed to live to see his son, JOHN, graduated from ND. This wish was granted, as John was in the graduating class of 1969. Leo had been with the Commerce Clearing House ance 1938. He was an officer of that company since 1950 and enjoyed a reputa­tion as one of the nation's leading authorities on labor law. At the request of our class. Rev. JIM DONNELLY celebrated a Mass in his remembrance. 
Dr. DOUG GIORGIO writes that his son. Herb, will start ND in September. As Doug will be at ND frequently, he will send me reports direct from the campus. That great old guard, JIM HARRIS, will be on hand for the reunion of the '29 and '30 football squads on Oct. 17 and 18. Say heUo to NORM GREENEY and CHUCK JASKWHICH for us, Jim. 
The Grand Lodge of the Benevolent and Protective Order of Elks, in their annual convention held in Dallas, Tex., in July, selected our class president. Judge MAURICE W. LEE, to serve as Grand Esteemed Loyal Knight. Congratulations, Maurie! 
It was an honor for me to receive 
personal thanks from Rev. THEODORE M. 
HESBURGH for my activity on behalf of 
ND's SUMMA program. 
Dr. JAMES P. DANEHY, our campus representative for the successful 35th reunion, continues to make news. Jim, associate professor of chemistry at the University and chairman of the Ft Wayne-South Bend diocesan human rights com­mission, is heading up "Project Commit­ment" an interfaith human relations program designed to educate lay leadership in racial issues. Also, the Toni Co. supplied $750 for a graduate student stipend in research to be conducted by Dr. Danehy. 
Rev. CHARLES E. SHEEDY was placed in charge of both the theoretical and operational details of the co-exchange program with St Mary's College. Co­educational classes began in September, 1%9. Fr. Chick says the eventual goal of the two colleges would be something along the lines of the Harvard-Radcliffe plan. He had recently been named dean of theological stucUes and institutes at ND. He had been liberal arts dean for 16 years. 
STEVE BANAS sent me a postcard from Spain. He said the bullfights and the Easter-week processions in Madrid were a great show. After Easter week, the Banas family had nine days of touring Spain and then were home again. Thanks for adding to my stamp collection, Steve! 
My phone numbers are: home, 215 446-5672; office, 215 438-5200, extension 
461. Please call me if your traveling takes you to the Philadelphia area. 
Charies A. Conley 
100 E. Tumbull Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 
« A RUNDOWN FRANK W. HONERKAMP — in business at 940 Bryant Ave., Bronx, N.Y. 10474. Has five children. FRANK JR. graduated from ND in 1%7. Correction: LES JANDOLI is with Prudential Insurance Co. Son LES finished ND in 1964. LAW RUTGERS jomed FBL Now back in New Jersey to practice law. 
WALTER KENNEDY — starting seventh year as commissioner of the National Basketball Assn. Formerly mayor of Stamford, Conn. Son DAVE is an ND graduate. Made Knight of St Gregory by Pope Paul two years ago. Office at 2360 Two Penn Plaza, New York City. 
VINCE McALOON — living in Rome 15 years. Secretary of ND Alumni Qub of the Eternal City for the past 13 years. The dub sponsors an ND Hospitality Center in Rome. "I have passports if you ;dan on going to Rome," Vince reports. 

JOHN J. MCLAUGHLIN — wrote the 
Delavan Enterprise about the htmiorous­
serious address RAY MORRISSEY gave 
after our dinner and they printed it 
verbatim. 
JOHN J. MAHE R — probation officer, 
U.S. Court House. P.O. Box 1188, Beau-mom, Tex. John still has his home in Tyler, Tex. CHARLES L. MONNOT JR. 
— architect in Oklahoma City. Charlie has four granddaughters and two grandsons. JAMES J. O'BRIEN — Pittsfidd, Mass. 01201. His daughter, Pat has a three handicap in golf and plays in many national tournaments. 
JOE CLARK has sent two letters an­nouncing his trip to Ireland with his new bride, Dorothy. They left J.F. Kennedy airport on Sept 8. Before Joe boarded the idane, he called me collect Wanted to know what he could do for the class of 1934 in Ireland. JACK HAGAN sent a card from Tokyo. Jack reports he makes many trips to Tokyo and woidd remain there for five days on this visit 
JOHN J. HENRY (Jack), 4329 Lawrence St., Alexandria, Va. Married 34 years, has two daughters, three grandchildren. Public relations executive in Washington, D.C., and vice-president of Buaness Productions, Inc., a motion picture production firm. Jack just moved into a new home. JAMES 
D. COONEY, alumni secretary at ND, informed me of the death of Robert Honerkamp, 18-year-old son of FRANK HONERKAMP. Robert was killed in an auto accident on July 26. RAY "SHAM­ROCK" MORRISSEY reports he has received a lot of mail from dassmates since our first report was published. Ray is in the antique business in Ddavan, Wis. 
JOHN J. MCLAUGHLIN sent us soo reprints of the Delavan Enterprise story about Ray Morrissey. TOM SULLIVAN, managing editor of the ALUMNUS, was kind enough to mail them for me. I do hope you all enjoyed John's report John flew out to South Bend to attend the marriage of MOOSE KRAUSE's daughter and saw BOB CAHILL at the wedding. CHARLES QUINN sent me an invitation to attend the marriage of his daughter Catherine at the Sacred Heart Church on the ND campus. My invitation arrived a week late because the stamp fell off the envelope. ROBERT E. WARD PH.BC. '34 died July 6, 1969. Bob made his home in ChOlicothe, Ohio. 
RAY TROY sent a card from Denver. He was on his way to Dallas for a con­vention and idanned to have luiKh with GENE BLISH. Ray claims I owe him eight beers for votes he rounded up for me in June. Ill repay him in New York at the Army game. JOHN F. CARR of Flint Mich., wants to know why BOB HAUER of Minneapolis did not come to our re­union after he called him on May 29. MAJOR BOB HALPIN called me Sept 12 while in Chicago. I missed his caU. 
Talked to TOM DUGAN yesterday and he reports his two sons are now attending college. Bill is at Loyola U. and Mike will be a freshman at St Louis U. JOHN BROST of Chicago sells church goods and reports the biggest sales item now is guitars. 
Met JACK QUIRK at Sen. McGloon's ditmer here in Chicago. ERV KIEP has made a comfdete recoveiy from his heart attack but is not drinking or driving yet JOHN MAHER of Tyler, Tex., wants to know if the sport of purebred cockfi^ts 
is still held in Ireland. Don't forget our 40th reunion in 1974! 
Ed Moran 
2501 N. Central Ave. 
Chicago, lU. 60639 
<35 DEAR FRIENDS: SEND $ PAUL FERGUS volunteered to pen the column for this issue. This is the "kick-ofT" for messages via the ALUMNUS, both from our chairman for the big 3S-year event and from our most important member of the committee, ED SMITH, treasurer. Please, fellows, don't forget Ed — he is really a nice guy and needs finandal help to take care of the budget committee's requirements. He keeps telling us that our $15 contribution for five years — set up 15 years ago — does not take into account the inflationary spiral which has taken place. He is right! However, we expect an increase in the number of classmates contributing and, most importantiy, who will plan now to attend the 35th. By the way, JOE KNAPP led the way this year — just got his $15 in the mail last week. Thanks, Joe. 
Following is Paid's message: "Your South Bend dassmates have started planning for our 35th reunion next June. Dr. WILLIAM 
J. McCRALEY has accepted the chair­manship and has already begun preparations to make our reunion even more outstand­ing than the great successes of the past You will be receiving letters from Jim during the coming months, outlining our plans and building up fires to induce all of us to attend in the largest number ever. 
"I think our attendance at past reunions has set records both in number and in percentages. There is a reason for this. Not oidy is there a great spirit of cama­raderie among our classmates, but we have always offered outstanding services such as a continuous bar, a standing buffet with great food and excellent service. Next year our headquarters will be in the new Athletic and Convocation Center. We have been assigned the beautiful Monogram Room. 
"But more on this later! Now I would like to ask you to send us your $15 con­tributions. You remember that our dues are $3 a year, and the $15 represents the total five-year assessment Ed Smith tells me that our 'kitty' needs replenishing, and all of your contributions will be given full credit. We don't expect to ask you for anything more. Make out your checks to the Class of 1935 and send them to the attention of Ed Smith, 1649 E. Ewing Ave., South Bend." 
We received word only this week of the death of FRED "FRITZ" WEIDNER's wife, Patrida, in August and also the passing away of TOM PROCTOR in New Yoik. No details about Tom were received from the Alunmi Office. His family's address is 201 E. 21st St, New York, N.Y. lOOlb. Fred's address is I.S. 701, Rte. 59, West Chicago, 111. Masses will be said for both in the name of the class of '35. 
I saw JOHN CARESIO at a wedding in South Bend last week, for which his married daughter was a bridesmaid. John is with the Masonite Corp. and lives in Chicago. He plans to attend the 3Sth reunion. JAMES A. MAROHN has been luuned vice-president for finandal opera­tions of the Record of Hackensack, the Morning Call of Paterson and the Sunday Record Call in New Jersey. 
T.W. FLYNN JR. writes that he hopes 

A seribe of the times 
Were you to walk into his office at any 
given time the story would be the 
same—books and papers stacked 
aroimd the room; pictures, scrolls and 
diagrams tacked across the wall. In 
the middle of it all, seated at a 
cluttered desk and woiicing diligently, 
you'd be likely to find Russ Jandoli 
•40. 
Dr. Russell Jandoli does his thing 
at St. Bonaventure U., a Franciscan 
institution in the Western New York 
foothills of the Allegheny Mountains. 
His thing happens to be teaching 
journalism and he's been at it for 
some 22 years, plenty of time to 
develop some cogent opinions about 
the "now" generations he has come 
in contact with. "I am not overly 
impressed with young people until 1 
observe their art, their writing and 
their other contributions. Sometimes 
I am deeply impressed thereafter; 
sometimes—as with the play "Hair"— 
I evaluate their behavior only as 
normal high school thinking and 
doing; almost never do I find it 
irrational." 
Jandoli is a professional journalist, but he has an extensive academic background. After departing ND with a B.A. in history he went on to earn twin master's degrees, in journalism from Columbia and in history from Bonaventure. He completed his formal education with a Ph.D. in social studies and education from N.Y.U. in 1956. 
On the professional side of the ledger, while at ND he was a student correspondent for the Newark (NJ.) News. Later he was a correspondent 
to be on campus in June of '70 for his 35th reunion. LOUIS F. FAUTSCH re­ceived a Distinguished Service Award from Loras College, Dubuque, May 5, 1969. He has a son Lawrence, a sophomore at ND; a daughter, Louise, a graduate of Iowa; a son Louis Jr., a graduate of Loras, and a son Lee David, a sophomore at Wahlert High, Dubuque. BILL CASAZZA writes that he talked to ED CULLEN in Boston, and all seemed fine — he will be at the reunion in 1970, too. 
Onefinal word — we still welcome news of 3Sers, and the blanks in the last two issues (the first time in four years, since I have been secretary) were due to lack of correspondence from your end. How about writing a note and sending your contribution at the same time, indicating you will be in South Bend next June? Tempus Fugit! 
W. F. Ryan 
1620 E. Washington South Bend, Ind. 46617 
for Time magazine, and he eventually 
became city editor of the San Juan 
(Puerto Rico) World Journal. While 
in the service during World War II 
he served as a wire service editor for 
the military publication Stars and 
Stripes, and following the war he was 
a civilian editor for the War 
Department. 
Jandoli arrived at Bonaventure to join the academic realm in the fall of 1947. After two years of teaching journalism courses under English titles he got the journalism department under way, and today it remains as one of four such departments at Catholic schools in the East. He has functioned as its first and only chairman. Of the study of journalism he says, "I am convinced that the best education is a four-year under­graduate major in communications or journalism, with emphasis placed on liberal arts and the social sciences." 
Jandoli feels that much of what he learned about teaching is a direct result of his undergraduate years at ND. He mentions the names of his former professors who made impres­sions on him. "From Withey I learned freshman English as few have been privileged to learn, but I also learned freedom of mind and love of language from him. From old Doc Cooney I learned the inverted pyramid and the S W's and H, but he also taught me the excitement of daily living within the world in which one finds himself. From Dr. Nutting I learned the many lessons history teaches and the benefits of prodigious research, but I learned 
'37 NO MORE PRODUCE Welcome aboard, LLOYD STOLICH, aU the way from Salinas, Calif. — not Kansas. This is the country that Crosby made famous with golf. Lloyd retired after 38 years of successfully raising produce in that famous climate and now breaks down to report to the class of '37. Lloyd, we expect you at the next reunion. Lloyd's neigh­bor was a good friend of HARRY BALDWIN'S during the war. Speaking of Harry, the secretary appreciates his cor­respondence. 
Our speedster, dash man, USNR, and Doc Cooney's boy, BUCKY JORDAN, has been named national advertising manager 
of the Chicago Tribune. This is a long way D.C. TIM KING has assumed manage­
from Alumni Hall, Cambridge, Mass., and the Navy with WALT NIENABER as a neighbor there. Congrats, Bucky. The Mobil man from New York City and Con­necticut, JACK GILLESPIE, iRcked up this news item from one of his commuter pals. NICHOLAS A. LANESE (kinds formal) is now a general contractor and 
Jandoli doing his thing. 
the joys of learning and teaching, 
too." 
More than 200 young people have 
graduated ftom Bonaventure with 
journalism degrees since Jandoli 
foimded the department, and the vast 
majority of them are still involved in 
various aspects of the communications 
field. 
About student unrest today Jandoli opines: "1 am too often disappmnted in student dissidents because I keq> looking for honest rebels and rarely, if ever, find them. The campus unrest groups are always, it seems, maimed by people with their own personal interests at heart, people who entice others to join than imder a false banner. It's a shame, because America does need good, honest, altruistic rebels. We need Christian rebels in the traditional sense of the word." 
Russ Jandoli is a competent professional, a gifted teacher, a man with a lot to say and a nice guy. His students would be the first to tell you, but if you met him it wouldn't take you long to figure it out. 
director of public works In Bridgeport, Conn. 
PABLO SHEEDY has given us a new address for MIKE BRIAS — Box 1459, Manila, PhUipiiines. PaUo is quite a grand­father now, and since his company has merged with Bristol-Myeis, I can't predict what the door prizes will be at the next reunion. CHARLIE HUFNAGEL has been named chainnan of the department of surgery at Georgetown Medical Schocd. Charlie, you will recall, was thefirst in the worid to successfully use the artificial heart valve on a patiem. 
BILL FOLEY'S son, Kevin, starts at ND this fan, an the way ftom Washington, 
ment of Arizona Land Trust Co. in Tucson, Ariz. Don't fotget to listen to Iowa this fan and EDDIE REARDON's son. Kerry. JERRY CLAEYS travded aroimd the East before taking hb dan^ter to Trinity. Official notice: Transplant FRANK LESSELYONG ftom Minnesou to DaUas and CHUCK ROGGENSTEIN 
from Lewistown, N.Y., to Clarkson, Neb. How about a note. Chuck? Need help — on mail to JACK KING and JOE CULLEN. 
Joe Quinn 
P.O. Box 27S, Lake Lenape Andover, NJ. 07821 
3S ED OR EDDIE7 ED BRENNAN, the ole halfback who busted his arm in spring football practice our frosh year, and not the Chicago EDDIE BRENNAN who played second base sometimes like he had a busted arm and who never lets us hear from him, dropped in for lunch one day. Ed is still living in Paw Paw, Mich., works for Continental Can and has hardly a gray hair despite having five young children since remarrying nine years ago after the death of his first wife. His oldest son just graduated from Loyola in Chicago, and his oldest daughter expects to enter St Mary's here this year. 
This job is bound to get sadder as the years roll on, but it's doubly sad right now when I have to report the death of a classmate and of another classmate's son. MIS. Elizabeth Arnold sent me a brief note that WILLIAM P. ARNOLD, of 14231 Georgia Ave., Apt. T-2, Silver Spring, Md. 20906, died July 21. No further details at the moment. Bill came to ND from Larchmont, N.Y., and was on the tennis team and member of the Schoolmen. 
David Ball 24, third son of the 12 chfldren of MARCELLUS "CELLY" BALL and wife Lynette, 61622 Oak Rd., South Bend, was killed in action in Vietnam, Aug. 2, and was buried in South Bend August 
13. David was a graduate of St Edward's, Tex., and was one. of five sons of Celly's who were in college at the same time, including STEPHEN, the oldest, who graduated from ND in 1%5. Another brother, JEROME, graduated from ND this year. Local classmates of Celly's beaded by ED CRONIN, BILL GIBBONS, CHUCK SWEENEY and JIM BEAUD­WAY, gave Celly a flagpole for his son's flag. 
HapjMcr news and an invitation to all came from OWEN KANE, Aurora, Ill.'s biggest Ford dealer. Owen and wife lead a husband-wife retreat to ND's Fatima Retreat House every February and invite any classmate and wife to join them this coming year. In the past FRANK PRUSHA and the late BOB MAZANEC joined them, and Owen thinks others of our class might enjoy such a weekend together — it's a chance to renew the soul and friendships. Sounds great! If interested, write him at 556 Garfield Ave., Aurora, 111. Owen has three of his nine children out of college, two still in and more to go. Get the details when you see him. 
FRANCIS "BUB" CROWLEY, Lexing­ton's finest druggist and ex-race-horse owner, phoned. The Episcopal bishop from there needed a room to attend a meeting at ND, and we did that ecumenical bit 
CHARLES "CHUCK" DALY, of Palm Beach, Fla., sent me a correction — with the scarcity of news, even these are welcome — that it is his daughter Holly, the sculptor, who was in a couple of Irish movies (not jilmedin Northern Ireland, I think) and not his daughter Sharon who is a painter. Just to make sure this is right I might stop :K(the last of October, on my way to South America. 

WILLIAM J. FISH has moved from Ohio to 1170 W. Wellington Dr., Ddtonan, Ha., and ROBERT CZIZEK, who took law so he could be with our class, moved from Ottawa, 111., to the Twin Waters Resort (mark this, lads) St Geimjin, Wis. 
Leonard F. Smith *06, father of FRANCIS 

H. SMITH, now in Downey, Calif., 9137 Garnish Dr., died last May 14 as I learned through a note I just received from the Alimini Office. 
If any of you got tickets for football games, why not call SWEDE when you get here? 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46625 
'4» SILENT 40eni? For a class looking forward to another grand event our 30th reunion, you men of '40 are certainly most quiet Mark the dates of June 12, 13 and 14, 1970, on your calendars right now. Eveiy one of us has a most important engagement on the ND campus those three days. 
You have already received a class roster and I suggest you contact some of your friends to make certain all will be present in 1970. Your neglected class secretary would also appreciate notes and letters ex­pressing your intentions. JOCK HENEBRY will soon appoint a local committee to make arrangements for another fabulous reunion, and if you recall the great job of 1965 you know these South Bend men really do practically the impossible for our enjoyment 
DICK BURKE has been hospitalized following a stroke but is apparently doing well and should be home at 19586 Paxson Dr., South Bend, Ind. 46617, now looking forward to any messages you might send. Have seen JIM DELAHANTY on various occasions but have not had the opportiuity to see his brother, ED DELAHANTY, CHUCK MAGNER, BUD TEAH, DON HOSINSKI or any of the other South Bend men as yet 
Of course JIM CULLATHER and I are in the same department (accountancy) here on campus. Two professors from our days, Jim Dincolo and Bemie Fiiman, look great and are doii\g very well. As usual, I have heard from GERRY SAEGERT and we arranged a meeting at Gate 3 after the Michigan State game. I look forward to seeing at Gate 3 all of you who attend games this fall. 
Remember those all-important dates, June 12, 13 and 14, 1970, and send some notes and cards to your frustrated secretary. Shorty. 
Robert G. Sanford 302 Rue Rabelais, Apt 620 South Bend, Ind. 46615 
'42 WHATS YOUR REASON? The Alumni Office has notified us of several address changes among our class­mates, and surely some of you must have some interesting news regarding the reasons for these changes. Why not drop us a few lines and fill us in on what you are now doing and any other items of interest you mi^t have? 
LARRY KELLEY's son, Lany Jr., wounded in Vietnam, is recovering wdl at Brooke General Hospital, San Antonio, Tex. 
Congratulations to THOMAS M. KIRBY, who earned a Juris Doctor degree from St Lawrence U., Brooklyn Law School. Tom's dau^ter, Susan Mary, must be a "chip off the old block," for she was graduated from a four-year college course in three and a half years and is now teaching in a Freeport, La., high school. Best wishes, too, to Susan Mary on her marriage, July 19, 1969. 
Word reached us that ANTHONY J. HEHN had planned on visiting the ND campus the first week of July which, to all of us, is Uke conung home, and many happy memories are relived. Tony's daii^ter, Mary, graduated this year from the U. of Teimessee and is teaching in Roanoke, Va. 
THOMAS R. ROURKE has left the engineering staff of Electro-Film, Cherry Hill, NJ., and is now national vice-president of marketing. We are very sorry to report the death of HOWARD O. MclNTOSH, who died Jan. 28, 1969, the victim of a heart attack. Howard was owner of Sportsman's Comer and Racette Insurance in Paw Paw, Mich. Our heart­felt sympathy to his wife, Mary, and his daue^ters, Aime, Maiy and Elizabeth. 
William M. Hickey 5500 W. 73rd St Chicago, in. 60638 
'43 WANTS FREE RIDE Your secretary spent a coui^e of interesting days in Chicago during the All-Star game week with BUD DUDLEY, who was in town publicizing his Memphis Liberty Bowl game. After last year's success, the "Inspector Shindler of Andy Keko days" is expecting an even greater event If you're sincerely interested in having your secretary represent your class at this event make big with the contributions and forward immediately. 
JOHN LANAHAN was also in for AU-Star week. Aside from his lumber business, "the Rebel" is also president of the Jack­sonville, Fla. city council and on the sdection committee for the Gator Bowl. The Reb was operating out of the King Louis XVI Suite at the Sheraton-Blackstone, overlooking Lake Michigan, and as we imbibed the amber fluid of Gus Busch he came up with the remark, "Tell all the boys that this is a long, long way from Brownson." I also talked with our prexy, JACK BARRY. He's already kicking around some good ideas for our next reunion. 
Stopped in at the Blunt Ellis and Sim­mons brokerage firm for a chat with JOHN GRIFFIN. He informed that his father had passed away the previous week. Please remember him in your prayers. The Griffins have two daughters, Kathleen and Susan, who are both juniors at St Mary's. 
Accompanied our eldest son, Mike, to ND, where he will spend his freshman year in room 318, Tower C. I spent some time with the BILL EARLEYs. Bill is making rapid recovery after a coronary attack in May and expects to again scout Ara's foes. JOE HAAS proved to be a gracious host at the South Bend Knights of Columbus, where he pinch-hits after regular hours with the South Bend Cable TV Co. 
A letter from Bud Dudley informs us that the Dudleys and six children, aged 8-19, have moved from PhUadelphia and are now at home at 1205 Bristol Dr., Chatham Village, Memphis, Tenn. 38117. The Sept 11 Memphis Press-Scimitar gave the family an ei^t-column spread, complete with pic­tures, and in welcoming them to Memi^iis listed many of the awards and accomidish­ments of one of our more famous '43ers. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry 
Chatsworth, lU. 60921 
'44 SHAME ON THE EDITORS 
JOHN MURPHY, one of the most faithful 
correspondents of the class, is probably in 
a rather dejected and disappointed mood 
these days. He sent a very detailed summary 
of the reunion which arrived a week after 
the column had gone to press. Parts of it 
were used in the next one, but unfortunately 
the office saw fit to delete sections and his 
words of wisdom were cut. In spite of 
all this, John continues to correspond. 
Arrangements were made by him for a 
get-together of '44ers after the ND-Army 
game on Oct. 11 at the Prince George 
Hotel, E 28th St., New York City. Details 
of who saw whom will be reported in a 
future column. 
Again we are adding to that ever-growing list of departed classmates. Since the last column went to press, word was received from the Alumni Office of the deaths of two '44ers. STEVEN WEIGEL, Danielson, Conn., died in May, and JAMES KANE JR., Chicago, died in September. To the wives and families of these men, humble prayers and sincere sympathy are extended. 
Recently there was a phone call from TOM ROLFS. He still is looking for four SO-yard-line Packer season tickets. He has been told innumerable times that his only hope is to receive them as a bequest. Tom and his wife were about to leave on a two-week European "business" junket. JACK CRAHAN has an ample supply of tietacks available for any '44er who desires some. These were ^ven to all reunionites when they registered at their hall. These tietacks are a neat souvenir of the big 2Sth. To obtain some, write Jack Crahan, 3 Park Lane, Napoleon, Ohio 43545. 
FARRELL QUINLAN responded to the pleas of this secretary tvrice since he re­turned home from the reunion. First he mailed a beautiful brochure of his Indian Cave Lodge, Lake Simapee, N.H. It included transportation instructions, sample menus, a typical weekly schedule of social events and the tariff details. Recently a card came on which he mentioned that the season just ended was the greatest in the lodge's history. 
HENRY ADAM, Orange, Tex., wrote that he felt the reunion was one of his most satisfying experiences. He submits the following slogan for the 30th: "See You Some More in '74." That sounds great. Hank, and should catch on as readily as did the one ED DUNIGAN coined for the 25th. 
PHILIP MYERS, Stow, CXiio, sent word that a friend's son found one of the class of '44 reunion balloons in his yard in Akron, 260 miles east of ND, several days after its launching on the campus. Either JOE DILLON knew how to do a really bang-up job or this report is a good entry for the annual Buiiington Liars Club contest This is no reflection on you, Phil. 
OZZIE DOLAN, Dubuque, relived the reunion through a beautiful letter. He remembers especially FRANK CARVER and his sons leading; a decade of the rosaiy at the midni^t grotto gathering. In late summer Ozzie took his family on an extended trip through Northeastern U.S. 
and Canada in their new Chateau trailer. 
The banner "Class of '44 — ND's Finest" 
once again floats through the air. It is 
the hope of the reunion committee to 
make this an annual happening at one of 
ND's home games. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'45 ECUMENISM IN ACTION 
Rev. ROBERT S. STEWART continues to 
serve as pastor of Westminster Presby­
terian Church in Decatur, III. "1 serve as 
chaplain of the ND club also, probably 
the only Protestant chaplain." JOSEPH P. 
FISHER has been elected assistant general 
counsel of Aluminum Co. of America. 
He has held various positions since joining 
Alcoa's legal department in 1956. He and 
his wife, the former Helen Schwarzl of 
Coraopolis, and their three children live 
at 2125 Pococen Dr., Coraopolis. He is a 
director of Moon Union Schools. 
FRANK MILLER is now technical di­
rector for United Class Ltd., Staines, Mid­
dlesex, England, He hopes to be back for 
our 25th. We have kidded Judge JIM 
CLYNES on some of the cases he has heard, 
but he's now in the middle of a "hot" one. 
He's trying the Cornell students who took 
over Willard Straight Hall tins past spring. 
We are looking for suggestions for our Silver Jubilee. 
Frank M. Linehan 
P.O. Box 5000 
Binghamton, N.Y. 13902 
'48 MAKING THE SCENE While there isn't much to put in this column this time, we will at least be making the scene. JACK LEAHY has moved from Los Angeles to Skokie, lU., where he is affiliated with Leahy & Associates Inc. Chaplain Col. WILLIAM P. McMULLEN is completing his tour of duty in Germany this faU and hopes to be back in time to make one of the football games. BRAD BENNETT is a customs inspector at the Los Angeles International Airport during the summer months. 
JIM GILKER has advised us of the loss of his son in Vietnam. A Mass has been offered on campus and the members of the class of '48 extend their condolences to Jim and his family. 
It didn't take long to read this column, did it? It didn't take long to write it, either. 
George J. Keenan 
177 Rolling HUls Rd. Clifton, NJ. 07013 
'49 TESTING THE NUNS "Back to school" sales fill the newspapers, 
and the credit cards heat up as Joan and 
I prepare to send eight of oiu- nine to 
test the nuns and brothers in most of the grades and years at Christ the King School and Bishop Kearney or Mercy Hi ^ Schools. Nonetheless, do you, as I, tingle a bit in reminiscence at the thrill years ago of scanning the ads to select a pair of slacks or perhaps a sport coat to add to the GI wardrobe that would soon be on its way to South Bend for the fall semester? Fall has an aroma all its owa Not just pigskin, but woody, smoky, woolen, cotton and — if Sports UlustraUd can be believed —silken, the mark of female cheerieaders —ours! "Back to school" used to be truly 
exdlinc! Ho ^ my lads and lassies win 
always find it so. And these notes and 
memos had best be on their way to campus 
also. 
Received a cant earlier from EUGENE 
SULLIVAN tdliiic us he has been pio­
moted to legiMial director of the Great 
Plains resion by Boys' Clubs of America. 
He coven Iowa, Nebraska, Miiuesota and 
the Dakotas, stattins new clubs and servic­
ing existing dubs. Gene and Maty have 
five children and moved from Chicago to 
Edina, Mitm., to faandk the asajgnment. 
Note to JCHINNY DEE: the Sullivans have 
a son, a junior in hi ^ school, irfio starred 
on three grammar school diampionsfaip 
basketball teams. His high school team has 
already won three straight state champioii­
ships. 
FRANK CAPPIEIXO tdls of being elected finatKial vioe-ptesident of Monu­mental Life IfBurance Co. He's responsible for an corporate investments. Frank is also vice-president of F & D-Monumental Corp., a Baltifflore-based finance holding company that owns Monnmental Life and other insurance companies. He's also a member of the trust committee of Equitable Tnist Co. of Baltimore. AU this and a woitd series, too? 
REV. MEINRAD GAUL sent me a card from Olympia, Wash., saying that he is chainnan of the Ustory deputment at St Martin's College in ^ympia. Last year. Father was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Himiane Letters in recognition of hb more than 30 yean of teaching and ahuimi kadership activities. Later in the year, the Washington Automobile Assn. selected FaAer for their teacher-of-the­year award. 
Having trouble with the dafly douUe? Ten ya irtiat I'm gonoa do. Check with JOE ARNOLD. Joe recently commanded a whole news colimm on the sports page of the Camden (NJ.) Courier-Post. The article told of a film documentary on horse racing, written, filmed ai¥l_produced by Joe and his company. An' indication that this was no "nickd and dime" operation is that Joe even manaaed to secure the services of Mrs. Ridiard Du Pont and her ptize-iriimer Politely and ultimately came off with a class "A" film. Hb company, a film and video tape operation, produces educational, industrial and sports flhns for national distribution, aU of which hdps feed the family in Riverton, NJ. — Joan and the four yoimgsten — and maybe a pony in the back yard? 
PAUL GORDON, iriio is general manager of ITT Barton, has been dected a vice-president of the enviromnental division of International Telephone and Tekgraph Corp. 
More sports news: TOM HOWLEY, who is a teacher, coadi and recreation director in the Schenectady, N.Y. area, just recdved the New York State Cross-Coimtry Coach of the Year Award. Schenectady is BILL LEONARD'S old stamping ground. 
Once again I must check out My allotment of space permits nothing further at this writing. However, if you win check in Teganfing any news of yourself — family, alumni you've seen, games attended, anything — ra do my best to feature it in a subsequent column . . . like perhaps the next one! 
LeoL. Wesley 1S5 Driftwood Lane Rochester. N.Y. 14617 


Congrats 
Rev. ARTHUR PERRY '52 has been named to head the Des Moines County Pastors Fellowship. The first Catholic priest to lead the pre­dominantly Protestant association of pastors, Fr. Perry had previously held the positions of vice-president and secretary-treasurer. 
JOSEPH J. TUNNEY '52 was 
promoted to the position of vice-
president at the Chemical Bank in 
New York City. Tunney had been 
working in the international division 
of the bank since April, 1968. He 
and his wife have three children and 
live in South Orange, N.J. 
DAVID W. DUERR '53 has been 
named to the newly created position 
of field, administrative manager for 
the Hoover Co. in North Canton, Ohio. Previously the manager of field real estate, Duerr has been with the company since 1955. 
ROBERT McKENNA '53 has been appointed vice-president of manu­
facturing for ILG Industries Inc. in Chicago. He joined the organization in 1966 as the production control manager. McKenna resides with his wife and three children in Park 
Ridge, III. 
ROY C. BELKNAP '55 has been named a trustee of Marygrove College in Detroit, Mich. He is vice-president of sales and marketing and secretary for Marantette and Co., investment bankers in Detroit. 
CYRUS F. FREIDHEIM '57 is one of the 19 new vice-presidents elected by Booz, Allen and Hamilton Inc., in Chicago. Prior to joining the company, he was a financial analyst for the Ford Motor Co. 

'52 ISNT HE GETTING TIRED? 
Coi. WILLIAM J. DONELAN writes from 
his new base in Colorado Springs that he 
has been jetting around the worid since 
graduation. Bill is married and the father 
of three children. He and his wife, Betty, are 
seeing their older boy off to high school 
this year — time and the river do flow on. 
BiU will be stationed at the Ent Air Force 
Base at Colorado, where his skills and ex­
perience will be put to good use. He says 
he tuns into old classmates BILL 
DELANEY and MEL WALIN, who also 
fill the s'ties for the USAF. 
Ace reporter RUDY UNGER of the Chicago Tribune writes a few lines about a couple of classmates. GEORGE MORGAN, who lives on Chicago's South Side, is now teaching music and choral at Crown Point High School in Indiana. He will be in charge of singing at our next reunion. Raise the cups. CHUCK FALK­ENBERG is practicing law in the Chicago Loop with his dad. He and his wife have a wonderful time taking care of their seven chUdren. Incidentally, the eighth one is wdl on its way now. 
William J. Stapleton has four children, ranging in age from eight to 14. He lives in East Lansing, Mich., and is a partner in the law firm of Andrews, Stapleton, Harmon & Huber. He always attends the ND-MSU game at ND. 
JOHN J. SOLHAN is a contract auditor with the Defense Contract Audit Agency at Ft. Benjamin Harrison, Ind. In fact, he visits South Bend quite often in his job, auditing government contracts with Bendix, Uniroyal and Kaiser Jeep in South Bend and Mishawaka. John, "four years older than God to his classmates," says hello and sends his best to all of them. 
Dr. D.E. KOTC>SKE just completed medical-surgical internship. He opened an ofBce for the general practice of medicine, suigety and obstetrics on Sept 1 in South Bend at 4104 S. Miami. 
DICK ADAMS lives with wife, Rosemary, and four children in Mishawaka, Ind., and is product manager, fabric fitters, with the air pollution control division, Wheel­abrator Corp. 
Rev. THOMAS WALDRON CSC was granted permission by his superior to teach in a state school. He is now afliliated with the Union-North United School Corp. and teaches in LaVille Junior-Senior High School. After his first academic year of teaching there, he was elected vice-presi­dent of the Union North Teachers Assn. Next year, in addition to his teaching he will be one of a team of resident chajdains assisting in the formation program for Holy Cross seminarians at Moreau on the ND campus. He is a year-round resident at Moreau and conunutes daily to his Lakeville teaching post. 
William B. King 613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
•54 BACK TO BEGGING The almost complete lack of mail and the faa that I'm writing ri^t before a reunion dictate that the column be a short one. Would really appreciate some cards or letters! 
The ND-Northwestem game was kind of special for me this year. I took my dau^ter n d son to their first college game, and, as I expected, the number of loyal Irish fins was increased by two. Thanks to BILL MCXtLEY, we saw the game in style — on the SO-yard line. Some of you guys 
who've never been back to our reunion 
parties ought to make the effort sometime. 
Even GERRY FINNEY would be welcome. 
The news in brief: PJ. McDONOUGH 
M.D. is the assistant clinical director at the Eastern Pennsylvania Psychiatric Institute, Philadelphia. His address in Philly is S520 Henry Ave. TOM HAMLIN was promoted to lieutenant colonel and also has just received his master of arts degree from Northwestern. Tom has been an NROTC instructor at N.U. for three years and was just transferred to the command and staff school at Quantico, Va. 
Your prayers are requested for Mary Lou 
Sweeney, wife of ED SWEENEY. Mary 
Lou passed away on June 1. Our deepest 
sympathy, Ed. 
MARK McCABE is manager of quality 
control for Saginaw Steering Gear, 
Division of G.M. He and his bride have 
five children. AL WALTER is vice-
president of sales for North American 
Reassurance Co. He and his wife have 
four children and live in Garden City, N.Y. 
Al often sees his old roomie, JACK 
MANNION, who's a senior vice-president 
for Beneficial National Life of New York. 
AI also recently visited DAN WHALEN 
of Franklin Life in Illinois. 
The BEAUDINEs had a wonderful 
vacation camping and fishing in Northern 
Wisconsin. If you're ever in Wausau, stop 
in for a visit with Sheila and ED SEIM. 
Ed prepares bratwurst like you've never had 
it, first smoked over the coals and then 
simmered in beer. He makes a mean 
martini, too. Well, that wraps up this 
article. PatheUc, isn't it? Write! 
Milton J. Beaudine 21 Signal Hill Blvd. East St. Louis, III. 62203 
'55 HE JUST NEEDS CIGARS It was good to talk to Maj. JERRY HUGHES, who was on his way to Seattle for a 16-day survival course. ("All I need is a pocketful of cigars up in those mountains.") After that he winged back down to Miami for about a week on a raft without provisions. As I told him, "Huge, you're too old for that jazz." The real test will be his night out in Miami with LARRY BUCKLEY, who was busy at last report lining up a real "survival" program. Jerry is due to head for Vietnam in April for a ^year's duty flying those treetop photo missions. Good luck! 
Speaking of Seattle, did I report that BERT METZGER has been named deputy 
U.S. attorney for the state of Washington? If you don't think we're getting old, did you see the Time feature story on police reporters in which they assigned RAY KENNEDY to return "to the scene of his crime-reporting days" in Chicago? Ray's report made for interesting reading and, as might be expected, his conclusion was "the good old days are gone forever." 
Rev. JIM SHERER CSC (P.O. Box 5, Dacca 2, East Pakistan) wrote to say that he has weathered a political revolution and martial law there. He's due back to the States in November and hopes to see BERT METZGER and DON YECKEL in San Diego. He asked me to pass along his best regards to one and all. 
ED PREIN is a partner in the civU engineering firm of Prein &.Newhof in South Bend. Tlie consulting firm will con­centrate on soil mechanics, structural design, water supply and distribution, and waste collection and treatment. He has taught at ND and Michigan State. JOE O'MALLEY has been appointed district supervisor of the Tennessee sales dbtrict for the Campbell Soup Co. CHUCK HUTTON welcomed his first son, Danid Charies, in May. His five giris were just a wee bit excited, to say the least. OWEN SODETZ recently was elected grand knight of the Marian Council of the K of C in Homewood, 111. MILLARD BATTLES, manager of product strategy plaiming for the Boeing Co. in Renton, Wash., spent last year as a Sloan Fellow at MIT. He received his master of science degree in management in June. 
A bow to JOE HAGGERTY's Janet, who brought me up-to-date on the dan. After 10 years with the Chevrolet motor division of GM, Joe struck out on his own with Joe Haggerty ChevroIet-OldsmobQe, Inc., in Hoopeston, III. Their six childien are enjoying life in a "big small town" in a 100-year-old house (426 S. Fourth SL). Janet adds that she heard from Mary and JOHN CASEY in Rochester, N.Y. John, who is bank manager, is the proud papa of a girl and four boys. Janet also has been in touch with Peg and JOHN HESTER, who motored to Hoopeston with their two daughters on July 4. John is with BIythe and Co. in Chicago. All are looking forward to the 15th reunion next June. 
News from those on the move indudes: JOE SAUNDERS, 2322 Loma Vista Place, Los Angdes; BERNIE WIELOCH, 15 Brewster HiU Rd., Setauket, N.Y.; DAVE GORMAN, 41 Woodward Ave., Buffalo; PAT O'DONNELL, 101 Sportsmans Hill Rd., Madison, Conn.; CHARLIE KLEE, 5501 Bradley Blvd., Alexandria, Va.; TOM ARMSTRONG, 6023 GranviUe Dr., Sylvania, Ohio; DALE RENAULT, E. Smokey Row Rd., Carmel, Ind.; FRED MAROON, 1701 W. Fairbanks Ave., Winter Park, Fla.; JIM WALLER, 1117 N. Huey St., South Bend; and BOB MURPHY, 121 St. Davids Rd., Cherry HiU, N.Y. 
Class Agent GEORGE SHELTON told me today that CHUCK DOHERTY is back in Chicago after a year in Tulsa. Chuck is on the financial staff of Lamson Brothers and Co., a brokerage firm. 
ED McCOY, who had a 20-year break between high school and ND, died July 30 in Rockford, III., at the age of 52 after a long illness. "Speed," as he was known to many, was vaisity golf coach and sophomore basketball coach at Boylan Central Catholic High SchooL On June 15, his friends and former players honored him with a "Speed McCoy Appredation Night." Ed is survived by his widow, Shirley, one son, Tom, and two daughters, Lucy and Mary, 619 Salem St, Rockford, 
III. JOE SASSANO, one of Ed's best friends on campus, passed along the sad news of his death. A special memorial Mass has been said at ND. 
On the military front, Capt JIM Mc-KILLOP is attached to the Army hospital at Ft. Ord, Calif. Cmdr. JOHN HAMIL­TON can be reached at Quarters B-I, Naval Supidy Depot, Mechanicsburg, Pa. 
For the benefit of the IRS, JOHN SORANNO now lives at 1812 Camden Dr., Modesto, CaUf.; TOM COSTELLO, 2285 
S.W. 27 Lane, Miami; VERN BISESE, 4720 Hermitage Rd., Virginia Beach, Va. (he's now a Ph.D.); RALPH DAVELINE, 4IS12 Chadboume Dr., Fremont, Calif.; PAUL COUTLEE, 3345 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles; DON LUECKE, 2651 Fairgreen Dr.. Upiier St. Clair. Pa.: DICK SCHEI­
BELHUT. IS09 Faiiview. Paik Sidfe, DL; 
CHRIS LARSEN, 1405 E. Cential. Ading­
ton Heists,- SL; GEORGE MARK. 1020 
Wisteiia Dr., Beanmoiit, Tex.; JCMIN 
LOCHTEFELD, Shoie Bird GaUenr, Still ^ 
Dock, Nantucket, Mus. (that sotmdi in-, 
terestinf, John, so fin me in by letter); and 
JOHN GUDAC, 909 Km Lane. Bettendotf, 
Iowa. 
A report <m the reunion after the USC 
game in the next cotmnn. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Dr. 
Glenview. IIL 60025 
•SSL THIS—AND 7 KIDS, TOO! DAVE McGOUGH qcnt two yean in the Air Force after (ladnation as a J.A.O. officer in JapaiL Retunnng from the wan, Dave served as vice-piesident of the MJ. McGouih Co., aeneial cootracton, until 1966. Since that date. Dave has been president of the Northern Surety Co.. a real estate devdopment and ptoperty nuuiagement company in SL Piral. MiniL Dave reports that his legal education has proved invaluable to him in his business pursuits. He is quite interested at present in the area of low-cost housins and job-training programs for the unemployed. Dave considen the opportunities in these two areas quite exdiiiig and personalty worthwhile to him in tenns of offeiing a contribution to the solution of some of our n^jor urban proMems. Married to the former Pat Kdly in 1955. Dave is the father of seven chfldren. 
JIM MILLER a presently the assistant director of the tax department of the Monsanto Co. of St. Louis, Mo., iriiere he has been employed six years. Prior to that, Jim spent seven yean with Chrysler and Ford in their tax departments as tax accountant and attorney. He informed me that he intends to be pieseu at our I5th reimion next year. I hope we can have additional response in the months to come, pointing towards this veiy important event 
From Palos Verdes, Calif., NORM McNEIL sends his best wishes to all memben of the dass. After his graduatkm. Norm spent two yean in the Army and was discharged in 1957. Since that time he has been a member of the Army Reserve and currently b commanding officer of the 78th JJi.G. detachment in his home town. Since 1957. Norm has been assodated with regional coimsd's office of the Internal Revemie Service. In 1963 he was elevated to senior trial attorney. For 10 yean he worked out of the Western region, idudi coven Seattle. Portland. Boise and Alaska. 
Ever-popular DOUG ROBERTSONwoAed for the office of general counsd for the FCC for one year after graduation. In 1956 he switched over to the regional counsd's office for the Intemal Reveiaie Service in Boston, where he spent seven yean doing tiial work on cases invotving federal tax liens in criminal tax £raad matters. At the time of his departure in 1963 he was senior trial attorney in the tax court in the Boston regional office. In Apiil. 1963, Doug left the IRS and formed the part­neiship of Smith. Wdts and Robertson in Nashua. NJI.. wheie be has continued in the private practice of law. 
Doug has the distinctioa <rf being ad­mitted to the bar in. the slates of Indiana. Massadiusetts and New HampshiTe, wliidi is -quite an accompKdmient His cine 
accomidishments include being chairman of 
the Nashua Republican City Committee, 
cochairman of the Heart Fund, division 

chairman of the Red Cross Fund Drive, 
director of the Nashua Little League, 
representative for the Boy Scouts of 

America and chairman of the Board of 
Deacons of First Church, United Church 
of Christ. For a little guy, Doug, you 
certainly climbed a long way up the 
ladder of success. 

After graduation in January of 1955, JIM DONNELLY spent two years in the Air Force as a legal officer for the inspector general. In 1957 he accepted an appoint­ment as a special agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and was assigned to Washington, D.C., and later to the state of Georgia. He left the Bureau in 1959 and entered the practice of law in Chicago, specializing in domestic relations. He was married in 1963 to the former Marsha Woughter of Flint, Mfch., and presently has two children. Jim makes his home in Wnnetka, III., and is a partner in the firm of Friedman, Armstrong & Donnelly. 
John P. Coyne 
810 National City Bank Bldg. 
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

'56 ODDS AND ENDS FRANCIS E MALONE is a staff accoun­tant at Pehlman & Dold. He received a diploma and listing in Two Thousand Men of Achievement, 1969. He planned to visit the ND campus for the Southern Cal game, Oct. 18. On a recent trip to Mary­land and New York EDWARD SEX­AUER saw classmates BART HENS­ELER, CAS TAYLOR, DON BROPHY, LEE CROGHAN and RAY PAPAY. Ed is currently working at WSFA-TV in Montgomery, Ala., as operations manager. He just returned from the Television Program Conference' Convention in Miami, where he was elected as Alabama rep­resentative to the board of governors. 
JOSEPH M. ZANGERLE was elected vice-president of research and development by State Farm Fire and Casualty Co., Bloomington, lU. HENRY L. KIRKEN­DALL JR M.D. is currently engaged in the practice of obstetrics and gynecologj' in Worcester, Mass. Since graduation from ND he has moved frequently, with stays in New York City for medical school, Syracuse, N.Y., for specialty training and finally a stint with the United States Air Force in upper Maine. He had been in practice two years when drafted. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 668 EUicott Square Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 

'57 ANY PLANS? I am writing this column prior to the beginning of another football season and I am looking forward to seeing many of the class at the games. The CROBLEs are planning a trip to New York for the Army game and will be tracing down some of the East Coast group. 
Eariier this summer, I received word from GENE REAUX out of Melairie, La., informing me that our mutual buddy, GERALD GERAMI, was involved in an auto accident in Lafayette and incurred some serious injuries. But just today 1 received a note from Barb Gerami, saying that Gerald is recovering and wfll be sprinting the 100-yard dash real soon. Good luck, Gerald. Gene Reaux is the personnel 
manager of the Southwest region for 
Singer. 
Since the last column, we have received 
a happy announcement from Mary and 
JOHN SLEVIN on the birth of Megban 
Eileen on Aug. 11. Barbara and GERRY 
TRAFFICANDA announced the birth of 
their sixth child, Timothy, on June 26, 
1969. Gerry is an advertising photographer 
in L.A. The Trafficandas got together 
with RON FRANCIS and wife, Patti, in 
January. Ron is with the U.S. Leasing Co., 
in Cleveland. The DON RENIERs put on 
a party at their home in LaCanada, Calif., 
and all had a great time. Don is a stock­
broker. BERNIE LYONS flies through 
L.A. with Pan Am and gets together with Gerry and Barb from time to time. Thanks for the message. Barb. 
The "did you know" department is as 
follows: BRUCE CD . WU is vice-presi­
dent of Teh-Hu Steamship Co., (H.K.) 
Ltd. Bruce was married in January, 1%8, 
and has one son. GEORGE KEYES is 
now a partner in the firm of Levene, 
Gouldin & Thompson. 
TOM RUSH is now practicing ortho­pedic surgery in Midland, Mich., where he probably is making a good living from all those ski slope fractures. D.E. HUBER is the chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Imagineering Enter­prises of South Bend. The Hubets have four children. 
Our prayers and condolences to LJ. O'CONNELL on the death of his father on May 30. Our congratulations on word of the birth of the O'Connells* fourth child, a daughter, in April. 
JIM GORMLEY is now Uving in Gaithersburg, Md., and TOM SOKOL has left the Chicago area for the simny climate of Phoenix. 
My news supply is running low, folks, so help out with some items. 
George W. Groble 111 W. Washington St. Chicago, lU. 60602 
'59 FINISHES STINT CHARLES O. STEPHENS M.D. finished his two-year stint at the Portsmouth Naval Hospital and is now practicing in Florence, Ky. Chariie and his family live at 2929 Campus Dr., Ft. Mitchell, Ky. 41017. JORGE JOSE ZABLAH, managing director of Lima Zablah y Cia, in Santa Teda, EI Salvador, recently sent me a memo­randum describing the situation of the armed conflict between Honduras and H Salvador. I will be happy to share it with you if you drop me a note. 
TOM SWEENEY has been appointed advertising manager of Meyer Laboratories, Inc., Detroit manufacturers of ethical pharmaceuticals. Tom will be based in Meyer's new research and distribution center in Fort Lauderdale. PETE SALSICH is now assistant dean of the SL Louis U. School of Law and is responsible for developing courses in urban and poverty law. Pete is a former staff member of the Legal Aid Society of St Louis. 
Please remember in your prayers Dr. RICHARD H. WOLFE, who died Aug. 16 after a brief illness. At the time of his death, he was physics department diaiiiiian at Siena College in LoudonviUe, N.Y., and assistant professor at RPI in Troy, 
N.Y. His MS. and Ph.D. in physics were taken at Syracuse, and from 1965 to 1967 he was on the faculty at Bishop Ludden H.S. in Syracuse. Rev. Joseph Fey CSC, University chaplain, offered a Mass for the repose of his soul on Sept. 14. 
BOB ROGERS has moved to Denver, where he is the manufacturing manager for Powers Regulator, pneumatic tube division. The Rogers' have two children, Mary (12) and Bob (9). R.H. MOOIZ is industrial relations superintendent with Kaiser-Aluminum and Chemical Corp. His ad­dress in Erie, Pa., is 2627 Oakwood St. 16508. BOB GIARRATAND is presenUy chief resident in ob-gyn at the U. of CaUfomia hos|Mtal in San Diego, and plans to enter private practice in San Diego in one year. O. FRED MILLER writes: "My wife, Joan, and sons, Gregory (4) and Jeffrey (2), are with me during assignment with the U.S. Army in Germany. I am a dermatologist at the 98th General Hospital in Neubrucke." 
E.W. CASEY JR. spent six weeks of his summer in Europe and went behind the Iron Curtain twice, into Berlin and Yugo­slavia. He missed our class reunion because of the trip. DAVE NEAL has been promoted to the directorship of the research computation center at Indiana U.-Purdue U. campus in Indianapolis. Dave joined the center staff last year. 
RON MELICHAR has a new address in Lafayette, Ind. — R.R. No. 12, Box 227. Ron and Bieverly have two children, Gretchen and James. He practices law with Hoffman-Melichar in Lafayette. JOHN DIEBEL, after two years in the Army, received an M.A. in English at the U. of MichigaiL He spent two years as a reporter for the Detroit News and the Detroit Free Press, worked for Touche, Ross, Bailey & Smart, and, in December, 1965, moved to his present job in PR, advertising and speechwriting for the Michigan Red Cross. John and Aim were married in 1966. 
JOHN H. FITZGERALD was promoted and moved from Oklahoma City to Cincinnati with Top Value Enterprises, Inc. John and Peggy joined us in the O'Shaughnessy courtyard after the North­western game. The Fitzgeralds have two daughters, Cathy and Teresa, and one son, Jeff. Also present at the football reunion were BOB PIER and his lovely wife of one and one-half years, Jean. The Piers reside in Akron, where Bob is district manager for Monsanto, and have numerous half-Siamese cats which they would love to give away! Air Force Capt TOFIE M. OWEN JR. received the Air Medal at Korat Royal Thai AFB, Thailand, for air action in Southeast Asia. He was cited for his outstanding airmanship and courage as an electronic welfare officer on success­ful and important missions under hazardous conditions. 
BILL GAUDREAU received a B.S. in architecture in '59, after taking an A.B. in 'S3. He has been appointed to the Baltimore County Architectural Review Board. Bill is an officer and member of the advisory board of the Baltimore chapter of the American Institute of Architects and is an instructor in archi­tectural design at Johns Hopkins U. 
Joseph P. Mulligan Admissions Offi^ Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
tUL YEP, HE DID Did the editor put his jollies at the top of the colunm? 
JACK D'ARCY writes from WellsviUe, N.Y., that he's been in solo practice since 
June, 1967, in addition to being assistant district attorney for Allegany County for the last five years. He and his wife, Diane, have 
- two children, David (2) and Laura (I). 
HUGH McGUIRE adamantly states that he hasn't disappeared again, that he's in Birmingham, Mich., where he's had a new partnership since August, 1968, and that Birmingham is a suburb of Detroit (maybe vice versa, now). The post office did say "address unknown," however. 
Still no word from or about GORDON HO, JIM BEATTIE, BILL BORROR, ED HILGENDORF, POGO REILLY (now there's a lad who really disappears), CHUCK REYMANN, GENE SALEM. 
John A. DiNardo 4S0 Oakland Dr. Highland Park, III. 60035 
'61 HIGH HOPES Well, by the time you read this we will be into the football season, and I hope we'll have a winning record. DICK ZANG CSC was ordained at Sacred Heart last April. He plans to do graduate work in business administration, starting on a doctorate this fall. PETE SCHIPA wrote and told me that he has been with Merrill Lynch since 1965. Pete and his wife were expecting their first child last July and were living in La JoUa, Calif. GEORGE VORIS has been in Seoul, Korea, for the past two years as a lending officer for the Bank of America. He thinks he will be returning to the United States in the winter for possible reassignment to another country. 
CHUCK CAYCE and his fanuly are living in Houston, Tex. He has been pro­moted to manager of dealer sales for the Trane Co. They have two sons now. CARL WALSH is in a private law practice. Carl and his wife, Maryanne, have three sons. ED McCAFFERTY graduated from 
U. of Maryland Law School last June with a Juris Doctor degree. He has two sons. It kinda sounds like there are a lot of sons being bom to us ND men. CapL T. CABBAGE graduated from defense intel­ligence school, Washington, D.C., in June and is now assigned for duty at OACSI, Pentagon. 
TOM HOBAN married Maureen Pearson of Everett, Wash., in the fall of '61. The Hobans have three young Irishmen: Thomas Patrick, Patricia Maureen and Shawn Attbur. I think you should have picked some Irish names, Tom. They are living in Seattle, Wash., where Tom was promoted to account manager for Halfanaifc Cards. TERRY MARTIN resigned as assistant city attorney for the city of Newport News, Va. He has entered the private practice of law as an awociate with the firm of Nadunan and Nacliman. 
MIKE TERRY has taken Ins vows as a Monk Hermit of CamaMolL The monks have a foundation at New Camaldoli, the Kg Sur, Calit For a year after graduation, Mike served ini Texas with the Volunteer Teadiers Service wider Rev. Fred Underwood CSC. Mike is now studying theology in Rome at Benedictine Cidlege. LEN SMITH is now with Evdyn Wood Reading I^ynamics Iislitute in Cfaioiga, 10. He is reqioasibie for instruction and new-instructor training. Len and his wife, Barbara, have a son, Edward, and were expecting another child last May. That should make two. 
GEORGE FREELAND and his wife and two children are living in Hawaii. He is working at a large sugar plantation as field equipment superinteiMlent, and this keeps him very busy. HAROLD SLANE 

Creating a stir • • • • the iiard "way 
And then there's the guy who decided to systematically rate every college and university in the United States. 
Sound like a ridiculously impos­sible task? It's for real and "the guy" is Jack Gourman '47. The first edi­tion of his monumental work was completed in 1967 when the Contin­uing Education Institute, Inc., pub­lished The Gourman Report: Ratings of American Colleges. The 1,200­page book was destined to stir con­troversy, as would any arbitrary rating of educational institutions in the U.S. At least a few schools had special reason to be happy, however 
— they ranked as Gourman's top 10: Princeton, Harvard, Yale, U. of Michigan, Columbia, U. of Chicago, Cornell, Notre Dame, Stanford and Dartmouth. 
Gourman, a political science pro­fessor at San Fernando Valley State College, began the task in 19SS by reviewing the history of under­graduate education in the U.S. But that was only the beginning — he started to visit colleges, talk with deans, department chairmen and school presidents, attend meetings, interview faculty members and trus­tees, and, of course, compile "thou­sands of statistics." A network of oyer 1,000 Gourman reporters was established across the country, with the goal of evaluating the total struc­tiue, direction and performance of over 1,100 colleges and universities. Gourman's motivation was the lack of information about colleges, and his stated purpose was to disseminate specific and critical information about undergraduate institutions. 
The ND grad arrived at his ratings through what he terms scientific and empirical research methods. '-*I have tried to separate image and myth from actual quality by measuring colleges qualitatively within a sys­tematical framework," Gourman says of his work. If there's a campaign behind his efforts, it's for excellence in undergraduate education. He re­jects the idea that excellence is some­thing only the rarefied strata of higher education can achieve. 
In Gourman's ratings, educational institutions are evaluated in two general ways: departmental evalua­tions and nondepartmental evalu­ations. Included in the first category are the various colleges of any uni­versity (e.g., English, math, science). In the second category, Gourman 
evaluates nondepartmental items, such as the administration, faculty, student services, alumni associatioo, library facilities, efficiency, public relations department and board of trustees. By averaging the nondepart­mental and departmental ratings, Gourman has assigned each school a numerical rating. The average score is 390 for the 1,187 colieges and universities rated. Eigjit hun­dred is perfect, and Princeton came the closest to obtaining that at 772. Among Catholic schools, ND received the highest ranking, 741. 
Gourman's work has not stopped. He is supplementing the book with bimonthly "Gounnan Letters," which contain updated information and new ratings. Eventually the author hopes to incorporate and enter the rating game on a full-time basis, but it hasn't exactly been a hobby for the past IS years. Not cnlydid Gourman finance the project himself until he obtained a publisher a few years ago, but a times he qient up to 18 hours a day preparing the book. 
Was he biased in evaltiating ND? No, says Gourman, who also re­ceived an M.A. ftom the University in 1952. 'Today, the University o( Notre Dame stands out as a great citadel of learning and as a symbol of man's unswerving pursuits of knowl­edge, troth and wisdom." That's not bad coming from a guy who should know what's going on in (Educatioiial circles. 
is a C.P.A. in the management consulting department of J.K. Lasser and Co. of New York City. Harold is married to the former Joanne Lo Grasso, and they are Uving in BronxviUe, N.Y. MOSE GLYNN studied theology at St. Mary of the Lake Setninaiy in Chicago and was ordiuned in 1967. He is currently assistant pastor at SL Dismas parish in Waukegan, 111. 
TONY MUSA is coaching football and track and teaching physical education in Auburn City schools in New York. He received his master's in physical education from Ithaca College. Tony was married last year to the former Beverly Stevens. BOB BREWKA detailed drugs for a few years after graduation and has now graduated from Ohio State U. College of Dentistry. He plarmed on getting his master's in orthodontics at Washington U. Bob and his wife have a son and a daughter. 
I'll be seong you in the next issue. Keep those cards and letters rolling in, because I'm getting a little low on information. 
William Henneghan 
30556 Scrivo 
Warren, Mich. 48092 

'a THE GRAPES DID IT! A rally on the grounds of the Washington Monument in support of the grape boycott brought together a representative sampling vS our classmates. BRIAN O'NEILL and BILL HAMILTON helped organize the rally, while yours truly and JOHN MACHECA served as marshals. QUIN DENVIR and JIM McGRANERY were much in evidence. Incidentally, Quin is now working as an attorney in D.C. and Jim works as a lawyer for the Air Force. 
BILL BEIER wiites from Highland, Ind., where he is working for the Naico Chemical Co. as a project engineer in the pollution control department. Bill lists as family assets: one daughter. JOHN MADER should be on his way back from Vietnam after serving a year in the infantry with the Army. ROGER SMITH is cur­rendy working at the Bums Harbor Plant of Bethlehem Steel in the operation departmenL Roger would like to hear from JIM OLSON. RON BORKOWSKI was promoted to an assistant manager in the Sears store in Champaign, III. Ron writes that BILL FORD was also promoted by Sears from Benton Harbor to Skokie, III. Bill will act as a training coordinator along with classmate JIM FITZGIBBON. DAN O'DOHERTY, along witii wife and four kids, is stationed at Tyndall AFB, Ha. TERRY COURRIGAN is going through pilot instruction training and soon will be at Reese AFB. 
Got a recent message that JOHN Mc-REYNOLDS is back in Knoxville working in the law firm of Key & Lee. John recendy was appointed an assistant city trial lawyer. AL VACHRIS received his 
M.S. in mathematics from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. My last column told of EARL LINEHAN's promotion. Earl has left Baxter Labs and is now in the rest-jiome business. GEORGE GAUTHIER was teaching at the Air Force Academy but is now woricing in medicinal research for Charies Pfiger and Co. in Groton, Conn. George writes that BILL KRUEGER is teaching at the State U. of New York at Flattsburg. 
PAT MORAN writes from George Air Force Base, Calif., where he is single, decorated with a Bronze Star Medal, and an academics instructor. VIC SZALAN­KIEWICZ is stationed in Pfailadelpfaia with the Marine Corps. He, too, received a Bronze Star in Vietnam. FRED CAPPETTA is in law practice in Chicago. CHUCK KNITTLE is in the tax department of Montgomery Ward's in Chicago. PAT MAZZA resides in Wheaton, lU. with wife, June, and three children. Pat also practices law in Chicago. JOHN GAGNON teaches hi ^ school in Adams, Mass. DEMOS GELOPULOS is teaching at Arizona Sute 

U. and makes his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. TONY DEAN works as a research engineer for DuPont in Gibbstown, NJ. 
Where are you, RUSS HOOVER? 

H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St. BeUiesda, Md. 20034 
'C3 THANKS, LADIES One of many interesting things that hap­pens to a class column writer is that I receive many notes written by wives, with the preface "since so-and-so is too busy, I'll do the writing." I'd like to thank all the female ND supporters who have so contributed to keeping touch. 
TOM WILLMENG reports from the USAF in Kwang Ju, South Korea, that he saw BOB DALE, also a fli^t surfeon from Okinawa, and BOB FARRELL, an F-IOS pilot in Korea. ED FITZGERALD reports the birth of a second son on June 5. He is a C.P.A. with Arthur Young and Co., in Winnetka, lU. Ihe Fitzgetalds see a lot of the DON RYANs and their two daughters around Chi-town. 
M.K. MURPHY was recendy transferred to Cortland, N.Y., as a district manager with Chevrolet. He and bis wife currently have four children. Their youngest, Patrick, is six weeks old. GARY CONWAY is stockbrokering for Merrill Lyndi in Huntington, N.Y. The first Conway child is a boy. THOMAS E. VOLLMER wiU leave the Navy in December, 1969, and then will practice law with Dewey, Ballan­tine, Bushby, Palmer and Wood in New York City. 
JOHN A. MacLEOD is practicing law in Washington, D.C, with the firm of Reavis, Pogue, Neal and Rose. He is living in Spiingfield, Va., with wife, Nancy, and a brand new daughter, Kerry Aiuie, bom May 18. 1969. JAMES M. TURLEY's daughter Cynthia Anne, arrived May 3. 
WILLIAM J. BURGLECHNER JR. has joined Honeywell in their computer sales division, Boston. In July '68, be acquired a wife, Janice Steuhe, of Irontenoc, Mo., and he iww has a son, Scott Edward, and a new home near the ocean, in Scituate, Mass. Between selling computers and being part of Boston U.'s M.B.A. program, he spends his time sailing the ocean with his wife and son. 
As of July I, GARRON L. KLEPACH MD is a surgical resident at the U. of Midt­igan Medical Center. At the end of June he completed an internship at the Comdl Medical Center, New York City. CHARLES 
E. BLAIE received his Doctor of Medkine degree from the U. of Nebraska CoDcfe of Medicine in Omaha, June 1. He wiU begin a one-year internship at Maitland Hospital, Newark, NJ. 
GEORGE W. HARDY is presently serving as U.S. Army captain at Fott McPherson, Atlanta,' Ga. A.C. FRIED­MANN has been named manager of marketing services for the consumer pack­ages division of Hoemer Waldorf Coitp. 
and will be moving from St. Louis to the company headquarters in St Paul, Minn., sometime in August of this year. Tony is married to the former Aim Wittmaim of Mequon, Wa., and they have two daughters. 
MICHAEL SCOTT CARROLL MD has 

just completed his first year of pediatric 
residency in St Louis. Hell spend the next 
two' years at Robins AFB, Ga., so will 
definitely attend ND-Georgia Tech game in 
Atlanta. He has two daughters, Mandy 
(21 mos.) and Jemnfer (3 mos.) 
TOM McCOWAN has finally gone in­land after serving four years with the . Marines in RVN and other places. He received his M.A. at the U. of Virginia this year, was recently married and is living at Redlands Farm, Rt 6, Box 226, Charlottesville, Va. 22901. He wiU be going on for a Pb.D. at the U. of Va., after a summer in Europe. 
J.E.
 ROZENBERG is an assistant pro­fessor in the Department of Civil En^­neeiing. Christian Brothers College, Memphis, Tenn. He's attending a design (fellowship) simuner program with the 

U.
 of Houston and NASA. BERNARD L. NEMETH has been a C.P.A. for five and a half years with Price Waterhouse & Co. in South Bend. He's now controller of Carl Corp. in Bremen, Ind., and is still sin^e. WALLACE P. BERKOWITZ has finished bis internship and one year of residency in otolaryngology at U. of Chicago. Hell enter the Army for two years now. 


J.W.
 SCHMIDT now has one son, and his wife expects the second baby in November. New address: 2043 Red Coach Rd., Allison Paric, Pa. 15101. Capt JOHN 

T.
 PEHLER JR. has been seeing action in Vietiuun. He helped defend VS. infantiy­men during recent fighting in the central Vietnamese highlands wliile pQoting an AC-47 Dragonship. His crew provided air support for the harassed troops under enemy artillery and intense small-arms fire IS iniles northwest of Pleiku. 


PAUL MICHAEL LEHNER received his M.B.A. with distiiKtion from the Harvard U. Graduate School of Business Administration, June 12. Robert P. STEPSIS, an assistant professor at Lake Forest Cbllege, has been awarded a Ford Foimdation grant to continue research initialed last summer on the literary legend of King Arthur, both in En^ish and FreiKh, as a pielude to teaching an in­formal seminar on medieval Arthurian literature. He received his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1%7. 
Thomas B. Hotopp 3I2I Colonial Way, Apt B ChamHee, Ga. 30341 
•CS A DOUBLE WINNER JOHN T. RYAN had a double celebration last June when he first received his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and then was married in New. Rochelle, N.Y., to Catherine Murray (DICK MURRA'Ts sister). John is now woildng in Pittsbiugh for Mine Safety Appliances Co. Of the ND men in the wedding party, I have the following news: Dick Murray is out of the Navy and working on Wall St; BOB MARKEL received his Ph.D. at ND and is teadiing at American U. in Springfield, Mass.; DUNCAN MacDONALD is set up in a law practice in Flint, Mich.; and JOHN MURPHY is in the Air Force in Nebraska after a Vietnam tour. 
VINCE KAVAL received his M.B.A. in 

Hospital Administration from the U. of 
Chicago in June and is now serving a 
tour of duty as staff assistant to the chief 
of the hospital branch in the Public Health 
Service. 1st U FRED ZONGHETTI is 
in Goldsboro, N.C., in intelligence at 
Seymour-Johnson AFB, and Capt. ED 
KELLY is in J.A.G. at Clinton-Sherman 
AFB, Okla. After a tour of duty in Korea, 
FRANK HINCHEY was married in May 
to Martha Kellett in Cincinnati. Frank 
returns to his original job as copy and 
make-up editor on the Cincinnati En­
quirefs copy desk. 
DOUG BRANSON is entering his last year at Northwestern Law School, and Capt TOM BLISS is stationed in the Army Dental Corps at Madigan Hospital in Seattle. JIM HILLMAN was married to Rita Cervany of Parma, Ohio, in August. Jim is in his last year at St. Louis Medical School. 
MICHAEL CONNIFF was presented with a son, Michael George Jr., last May by wife, Diane. They also have a daughter, Kellie Marie. Mitch will receive his J.D. from Detroit College of l^w in January. After four good years with IBM, FRANK MAY has taken a leave of absence to earn an M.B.A. at the U. of Virginia. In August, Lt. HOWARD LANSER was married to Karen Lee Fay SMC '66. Howie received his master's in engineering at Purdue and is currently working on a Ph.D. there. 1st Lt CARL MCCLELLAND is serving as a budget officer at an Air Force base in Turkey. Carl entered the Air Force via Officer Training School after earning his M.B.A. at Xavier U. in 1966. 
JOE DiGREGORIO is enjoying his new position as research chemist for the Shdl Pipe Line Corp. in Houston after receiving his Ph.D. in chemistry from Penn State. MATT LUKE will receive his J.D. from Loyola (Chicago) College of Law in January. He was married last year to Chris Babst SMC '67. 
JOE SCHRACLER is in his third .vear as a buyer in the purchasing department of Deering Milliken Service Corp., a textile producing company. Joe lives in Spartan­burg, N.C., where he met and married his wife, Carolyn. They have one daughter, Laura Leigh. Joe writes that BEN FISH­BURNE graduated in the top five per cent of his law class at Virginia and is now in Vietnam with the Army J.A.G. Corps. JOHNNY KOONS, who is vice-president of Koon's Ford in Arlington, Va., reports that on a volume basis his Ford agency is the largest in the world. JIM CARROLL, now {daying with the Phila­delphia Eagles, works for Koon's Ford in the off-season. After receiving his J.D. at Rutger's College of Law, LARRY PEPPER, his wife and Lany Jr. {VA) moved to Vineland, NJ., where Larry is working for Venice Maid Products. 
Capt. FRANK MELLENE has received the Air Force's Air Medal for action in Vietnam. He was decorated for his meri­torious achievement as an aerial photog­rapher while on duty at Tan San Nhut Air Base. Frank is now an information officer in air training command at Mather AFB, Sacramento. Lt TIM TUCH­SCHERER is doing legal work for the Army in Stockton, Calif., and ELMER MARTIN is serving as a law clerk to U.S. District Judge Bruce Thompson, district of Nevada. James P. Hamisch M.D. 3700 Buford Highway, Apt. 98 Atlanta, Ga. 30329 
Congrats 
Dr. ARNOLD E. SCHWARTZ '58, head of the Clemson U. depaitment of civil engineering, has been appointed dean of the graduate school and director of university research. Schwartz went directly to Clemson after earning his doctorate at Georgia Tech in 1963. 
D. TIPP CULLEN "59, Pacific Northwest division manager and a director of Walston & Co., Inc., has been elected a first vice-president of the nationwide investment firm. He was elected a vice-president in 1963 and served in several managerial and administrative positions before his appointment as division manager. He lives with his wife and two daughters in Hillsborough, Calif. 
F. DENNIS MCCARTHY '60 has been appointed by the ACCESS Corp. in Cincinnati, Ohio, as the Detroit area sales representative. Prior to joining ACCESS, McCarthy served with Mutual Life of New Yoric as an assistant manager. He resides with his wife and daughtenin Royal Oak, Mich. 
K. CLAY SMITH '60 has been ^pointed vice-president of Under­wood Transfer Co., Inc., and Underwood Machinery Transport, Inc., in Indiani^iiolis. He had been engaged in the general practice of law during the past two years and was a special agent with the FBI before that. 
ARTHUR W. MIER '66 has been promoted to president of the Florida 
U-Haul Co. in Pompano Beach. He joined the U-HauI system in June, 
1967, and currently resides with his wife in Fort Lauderdale. 
1st Lt. CLAIBORNE W. PERRILLIAT '66 of New Orleans has received the USAF Outstanding Supply OfiScer Certificate at Phu Cat Air Base, Vietnam. He was selected for the award by the Air Force chief of staff for his outstanding proficiency in fulfilling supply responsibilities. 


Horses, Shakespeare, and 
Frawley and a friend. 
It's doubtful that life is ever boring 
for Henry Frawley Jr. '60. When he 
tires of riding horses, he might relax 
a little by water skiing. After a day 
of branding and driving cattle, he's 
likely to hurry off to a meeting to 
present a program of readings from 
the works of William Shakespeare. 
And he might find himself returning 
to the ranch to harvest crops after 
a busy weekend as the judge of a 
beauty contest. 
Hank Frawley seems to be the 
mythical and much-talked-about "man 
for all seasons." One thing is 
certain—he doesn't fit any common 
stereotype. 
Bom and reared on a cattle ranch 
in the Black Hills of South Dakota, 
Hank is now living on the same land 
his great-grandparents homesteaded. 
When the time came for him to go to 
college, there was no difficult choice 
to make; his father, a 1914 ND grad, 
had always talked about his alma 
mater, and his mother, as Hank de­
scribes her, "was always a great 
believer in Catholic education." 
Even while he was at ND obtaining his degree in business organization and management, the rancher never lost hold of his Western roots, in spite of what he calls "a complete change of environment." It was while Hank was at N D that he acquired an interest in drama that eventually led him to the Yale Drama School. At the urging of Jim Cooney '59, alumni secretary. Hank and another friend, Tony Bill 
'M STILL IN THERE Fellas! A short note to let you know that we're still in the game, although Secretary DICK ANGELCTTI is Ued up with his tiew law practice in Chicago and can't seem to find the time to pass the news along. Let me fill in as best I can. 
As the Fat Man from Miami says, "How sweet it is!" And for those of us who witnessed it, it was especially sweet—that 42-28 romp over Dear Duffy's boys. Fol­lowing the festivities on the greensward we adjourned to the Morris Inn for some conviviality, our first official reunion since graduation. As the names come to me I'll relate them. 
It seems TERRY CASEY is still bach­eloring it around Chicago these days, as is JOHN O'HEARN, but rumor has it that the big "O" could go any day. JIM IRETON and his lovely wife, Mary, were there asking questions about JOHN MUSTO, who should just about be completing his tour in the Aimy Reserve. TED FRERICKS is scheduled to graduate from law school in December and he's still wondering about the fate of his old roomie GEORGE GRAY, wfao-got married more than a year ago and hasn't been heard from since. 

'62, landed parts in a play at St. 
Mary's and started the drama kick for 
themselves. 
The grease paint got into Hank's 

blood for a while, and he spent two 
years at the Black Hills State College 
in Spearfish, S.D., and at Yale 
working on an M.F.A. in acting. But, 
as he explains, that great outdoor 
ranch life in the West kept calling 
him, and in 1962 he returned to the 
ranch for good. 
"The ranch," which has been in the 

Frawley family since 1877, is an 
impressive spread located about seven 
miles north of Deadwood. Hank and 
his father are now the co-managers of 
the enterprise, which specializes in 
breeding and raising livestock. Hank 
makes it clear in a description of his 
work that it involves a little of every­
thing and is a year-round job: "We 
round up, brand and drive cattle to 
summer and fall pastures; feed them 
in the winter; deliver and care for 
baby calves in the spring; breed cows 
and harvest crops in the summer; 
wean calves and market yeariing 
steers in the fall." And, he adds, 
"there are always miles of fences to 
fix and trails to build." 
The rancher frequently designs and 

builds new facilities for the handling 
of livestock and has tried to 
mechanize many jobs that formerly 
required much physical labor. There's 
also a bit of the decorator in the N D 
grad: "When time and finances permit, 
I like to remodel and restore our old 
ranch homes and buildings and work 
BILL SCOTT is working with Westing­house back in Pittsburgh but looks for­ward to going back to graduate school. CAP GAGNON and his beautiful new partner, Cynthia, have set up housekeeping just down the road a piece at Howe Mil­itary Academy. TODD HERZOG is in sales work in Buffalo, and BOB "BOWLING BALL" CURRAN is now the editor of the family newspaper in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. Bob is still wondering about his freshman roomie, BOB LUETKEMEYER, who, it's rumored, is working with Western Electric in Oklahoma City. JIM MONG was there, along with BARRY McNAMARA, RAY FL-^NN, BILL FORD, BOB PETRERO, who'll be separated from the service shortly, and JIM CASPER, who asked about HERB and ED SEYMOUR. 
Needless to say, as the party drew on memories began to fade in the sweltering heat, thickening smoke and the din created by ND men having a good time—there may have been one other contributing factor to my loss of memoiy. DON BOUFFARD and his wife, Pam, were also with us, as were JOHN WYLIE and DICK FLEMING, both in their final year of on various needed conservation 
practices." 
But the ranch is not Hank's only 

forte. He recently was named to 
appear in the 1969 edition of 
Outstanding Young Men in America 
for his service to others, professional 
excellence, charitable activities and ­
civic recognition. Active in his local 
parish and numerous conservation and 
protective associations. Hank also 
provides entertainment for organiza­
tions and schools in the community 
by presenting one of two programs: an 
impersonation of Mark Twain or a 
reading of Shakespeare. 
Girl-watching might also be added 

to his interests and hobbies. A very 
eligible but unconfirmed bachelor, 
Hank was the master of ceremonies for 
this year's Miss South Dakota-
Universe Beauty Pageant. He has 
also judged state and local pageants in 
South Dakota and Wyoming. 
When things really begin to drag. Hank turns to his hobbies, which include antiques. Western art and history, music, drama and water skiing. Of course, he also has interests which would be expected of him— camping, hiking, riding and rodeos. Even his liberal and fine arts back­ground is helping him. The Frawley ranch will observe its centennial in 1977 and Hank is currently woricing on a history which he hopes to publish for the occasion. 
A boring day? It's a safe bet that 

this busy man doesn't know the 
meaning of that phrase. 
medical school at St Louis U. 
BILL BREEN passed along a note of sadness—JIM PHELAN and his lovely wife, Judy, who was a hig]i school class­mate of mine, recently lost their oldest child. I know I speak for those of us who haven't had the chance when I express sympathy and our prayers to Jim and Judy at a time of deep sorrow for them. 
That's about it for this issue. I hope Dick will forgive my butting in, but I thought the occasion of our get-together was worthy of some special mention. 
Tom Sullivan ND ALUMNUS Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
•ML THE STORK LINE I received an announcement from Pat and MARTY IDZIK that Andrew Brien was bom on July 27 at 8 lbs., 14 oz. Marty and Pat's address is JJi. Munich Br., U.S. Tascom Eur., APO, New York 09184. Maureen and BOB MURPHY are the parents of a new little girl, Tara Murphy, bom Aug. 25. 
This is really the baby season, and Etta and SCOTTY MAXWELL announced the birth of Elizabeth Amw on September 1, 
wei^iing 7 lbs., 3 oz. Their new address 
is Quarters M8A, VS. Naval Base, Phila­
deliAia, Pa. Etu and Scotty plan on going 
to New York for the Army game. Con­
tinuing with the stork line, Joshua Richard 
was bora to Ann and NORMAN MANDEL 
on July 28. Norman still resides on the 
golf course and has been the host of 
several golf outings. 
I have a sli^t correction on TOM 
HARVEY. He caUed to teU me he has 
been extended as an airborne captain for 
six months as an advisor to the Viet­
namese Airborne Division. After three 
weeks in Europe, he went back to Viet­
nam, and I understand that he is the 
recipient of a Vietnamese commendation 
and the Purple Heart after he was slightly 
wounded while jumping with the Viet­
namese Airborne Division. 
BOB KRAUSE has been spending a good 
deal of time in San Francisco working on 
litigation. He will be in San Francisco 
a good part of this faU. JOHN HAUGH 
has been written up in the Northwest 
newspapers for having been on the trial 
team which had a noteworthy victory in a 
civil rights case in Mississippi. PAUL 
POLKING has been promoted at the 
Treasury and is now senior attorney to the 
comptroller of the currency. 
Frank Gregory 
5018 Woodland Way 
Annandale, Va. 22003 
'<7 VIETNAM TRAGEDY 
Spec. 4 DAVID E. FITZGERALD was 
killed in action in Vietnam on Aug. 2, 
1969. He is survived by his parents, Mr. 
and Mrs. Edward C. FltzGerald, 10841 
Kolmar, Oak Lawn, III., and by a brother, 
Kevin, and a sister, Mrs. Patricia Wojcik. 
We extend our sincere sympathy to the 
family. 
John J. Hughes 
99 W. 37th SL 
Bayonne, NJ. 07002 
t7L SNOOPER'S CLIPPED 
GOOD GRIEF!! Hie wings of the Snooper 
have been clipped. In a dogfi^t on Aug. 
18 in the sunny skies over San Diego, Carol Louise Davis, alias the "Red Baron­ess," shot down and captured JACK CAREY COUCH! The marriage made headlines in the social column, as evidenced by a clipping forwarded by JOHN HAR­GROVE. In it, the bridegroom is described as a member of the Kinderhook (N.Y.) HuntQub. GOOD GRIEF!! 
Speaking of Hardy Hargrove, he relates he recently partied with JIM HARRING­TON, JOHN BLASI and TOM Mc-DONOUGH while in Chicago. On his way back, John naturally stopped at the Golden Dome, genuflected and continued on to the West Coast On a more serious note, John has received orders for Vietnam, and he will depart in late October. DICK MUENCH and LOU JACHNYCKY have already been over there for a while and JERRY BERTHOLD has recendy returned home. Lou, with the Army M.P.S, had completed a tour in Germany before going to Nam. Hopefully, it won't be too long before they're all back. 
We've heard Maureen and JACK "SCISSORS" HARTY have celebrated the birth of their second child, a giri, in early August Likewise, Marilyn and KEN LAZARUS celebrated the birth of their 
second, a boy, John. Maggie Ann, tbeir 
oldest, is now two and a half years <dd. 
Ken has transferred to the tax division 
of the Justice Dept Before the traisfer 
he argued a case before a court of appeals 
pand iriiich included Justice Burger. Ken 
win probably go into private practice in 
about two years. 
Maureen and DAVE FRANCESCANl, 
having left the A.E.C., have moved back 
to New York and bou^t a home. New 
address: 34 Middle Neck, Port Washington. 
The Francescani's have two children. 
Donna (19 mos.) and Christopher (2 mos.). 
Dave, a registered patent attorney, is 
working for a specialized firm in New York 
City. Dave recently ran into LOU BREN­
NER in Foley Square. 
Oddly enough, both Lou and Dave in­dependently ran into JOHN KIRBY. John is also with a patent firm, but that is the extent of my info on him. Lou and his family of two dau^ters and a son have a home at 1709 Montreal Ave., St Paul, Minn. SS116. 
PAT O'CONNOR finally fiUed me in on his doings for the past two years. He enjoys a diversified practice with a small firm in Langhorne, Pa. He made it to LEN "DUKF' BONFANTI's wedding in April. Pat's still sin^e and his home address is: 2IS3 Brighton St, Philadelphia, Pa. 
JIM OLSON has decided to remain in the South Bend area now that he has finished his dericship. After a short vacation visiting the f<dks in Sioux City, the CMsons have moved into thdr home at 810 W. nth St, Mishawaka. While in Chicago he was hosted by MIKE SENG, who is practicing with one of those conglomerates with SO or more attorneys. Jim finished his letter with a casual remaric that Nancy will be expecting the birth of their second child in October. 
Random notes: LARRY FLEMING, pres­ently attached to Naval J.A.G. at the Great Lakes Training Center, and spouse are expecting a transfer to Washington, D.C. TOM MCDONOUGH is slated to be married in November. STEVE "I'M­ALLERGIC-TO-CHOCOLATE-ESPE­CIALLY-(GENERAL-LY)-HERSHEY'S" LAMANTIA has been seen escorting the same girl in some of the finest pizza parlors in Buffalo. DICK FINLEY was appointed prosecutor for Noble Coimty (Ind.) by Governor Whitcomb. SEAN KEENAN's address: 1111 Arlington Blvd., M-902, Arlington, Va. 
ROBERT "HANDS" BARKLEY, having finished his clerkship, has opted for practice in New Orleans rather than moving to Florida. Bob eageriy joined the armed forces and demanded to be sent to war. He claims shock when he was told the Louisiana National Guard had no im­mediate plans for an' overseas sortie. They were needed at home — to keep the schools closed. But here's the best part: Bob has applied to be a diaplain's as­sistant: That's like Dean Martin applying for membership in the WCTU. New address for Bob: 1S2S Mason Smith Ave., Metairie, La. 70003. 
James C. Heinhold 34 WaU St, Box 126 Norwalk, Conn. 068S2 
'ML NOT MUCH, SUT Not much to report this time around, except that the class has just about stopped writing to me about the local news. It's 
hard to write the oaioM iriKS I doat 
know what's lii|i|ifiiin« So lAjr not take 
a mmute to drop me a dwrt aote aboot 
yoandf? Thae ate an awfni lot of peofle 
I haven't heard from. 
Since my last colmmi was cm, I Adn*t 
get to report diat, accotdit to AL 
BARNARD, Kadqr and JIM McGOVERN 
are in St Paul, Mian. Jim and Al fet 
totether occasionaly. TV latt Oey heatd, 
B(» HERR «asiaii« to trite the Mia­
nesota Bar Exam and spead tke next year 
of his fdhnnhip doiflf legri aid woA 
in St PanL 
JCMIN and Sue SCRIPT have retntned 
from the wilds of Oicflaa at loot last. 
(Sue isat too imhappgr Aoot oooinB back 
to the Midwcd. ciOer.) John feds that 
his year as a defk aAh Judge Kilkeany 
was a great aapeiieiioe. He has nov 
started on his Sailli MkmMp. In AugaH. 
he spent a mondi studyins at Havetfofd 
CdHefe and Aen he. Sue and Jane headed 
for Mitmeapoiis iriMte he arii 9end a 
year doing legal aid worit It looks like 
the whole das* it beadiag for Minnrmta. 
Demns C. Tbden 
7816 Lisa Dr.. Apt 202 
Noifolk, Va. 23S18 
«fL GET THAT WSVB*Gt Just a few letters came in das moath, but almost an ate bU of good nens. First of an, congratnlaliniB are in order for Pam and PAT COmiEY on the biidi of Odr dauiJiter, Bena Valentine Coooey. Pat is dritiiig for a dtcnit judge and is living at 309 N. GieenwDod St, LaCtange, Ga. 30240. 
CMwratnlations to JEFF CAVANAUGH, too, but for a diSeient leason: Jeff is now an a^istaitf dean and an instructor at Loyda U. School at ham in Los Angdes! To leant the secret of his success, wiile to him in care of the Loyola Law Sdiool or at 340 S. Notmandie, Los Angeles, Calif. 90005. Jeff's letter was most interest­ing. He said that he roomed with none other than "ZEP" FRANTDi during Oe New York bar review course and that they actuany studied! 
I've recdved several letters from MERLE "BEAR" WILBERDING, but most of the information contained therein win have to be discussed at ourfirst <&sa teoaion, due to the fact that the ALUMNUS is not willing to risk losing its mafling permit I'm sure the Bear wil be wSling to supply any inquiring dass menhers widi his Secrets of Truth if they drop him a line at 5902 Kingsford Rd., Apt B. Spiii«fidd, Va. 22152. 
Kathy and AL BANNON have finaly settled down in Poidand, Ore. — for a vdiile, at least Al is dofcing for a federal district judge and his address is preseidly 1505 N. Terry St, Apt 4. MATTDWYER probably look more bar exams than any other '69er: Illinais, OUo and Indjaiw After an those weeks irf cramming and acquiring a rather severe case of writer's cramps Matt has decided to take Teny on a fittle vacation to Europe before be begins his tour with the USMC. 
For those at you wbo are prone to speculation, I wiD dose by iirnliiming that Patsy Phmkett has moved to Denver and vrin tad i here this winter. I wfll wtlcoint any letters of advice. 
Scott Atwdl 1041 Ogden. Apt 504 Denver, O)lo. 80Z1S 
CHEMisny 

GRABUATE SCM&OLS 
KeiDy kctuiecs fm the fan semester induded 

Drs. Yang and Novotny at work on Project Themis. 
An undersea interest 
WoHdng luder the auspices of Project Themis, two ND professors of aero^ace and mechanical engineer­ing have concluded that it may be possible to use jet engines to power seagoing vessels. 
In their theoretical study, funded by the OfiSce of Naval Research, Drs. Kwang-Tzu Yang and Jerome L. Novotny explain that tbe principle is much the same as that of the jet plane. With the addition of a steam power plant, water will enter and be converted into steam by adding energy to it Once the water is converted into steam, it will be passed through a nozzle and into the ocean environment This, however, is «1iere two big problems arise. Sea water is extremely corrosive and leaves a scaly residue. Hence, a metal must be found that can resist this corrosion and eliminate the scaling. 
But this is not the problem with which Yang and Novotny are directly concerned. Their theoretical and experimental studies will deal widi the effect of the varying ocean environment cm the stability and performance of the steam jet It is the steam jet flomng out the tail of the engine that provides the thnist and moves the vessel. 

Yang and Novotny plan to observe the pattern and force of an actual jet stream in flowing water and obseive how closely its configuration ccmforms to their theory. They will have die assistance of two graduate studmts who will do their Ph.D. dissertations on these studies. 
If the experiments confirm the theoretical predictions of Yang and Novotny, tmderwater jets may tooa be used to propel rescue craft and eventually to power mining, tasapoA or even passenger vehicles as wdl as conventional submarines. 
ttOL Duilio Ariaoni, from the Swiss Federal Institute of Tedmology Qate Sep­tember); Prof. Dudley Iferschbach, frcin Harvard, and Prof. Benuud Horecker, of tbe Dqiartment of Mdecolar Kolosy, Albert Einstein Odiege ai Medicine^ New York (November). 
Among those lAio recently completed tbe requirements for the PILD. in diemistty are BID. HENRY ALTMILLER CSC, now teadiing at St Edward's U. in Austin, Tex.; GARY MAPPES, with Monsanto in St Loms; and FRANK QUINN, with Industrial Chemicab Industry in Di^ton Mass., and residiiig in nearby Taunton. WALT OBRIEN MS '69 completed his basic training in late August and is with the Chemical Cbips in F t Detrick, Frederick, Md. 
Sr. MARY PETER COAKLEY RSM '55 is chairman of the Department of Chemistry and ci the Facul^ <rf Natural Sdences at Geotpan Court Collect Lakewood, NJ. She continues to be active in Ae local ACS section and in researdi. She has received research support from the Atomic Energy Commission and the Petnrieum Research Fund and has published a number of researdi artides in diemistiy journals. 
CARL LUKACH '56 has been appointed to Oe position of tedmical assistant to the director of research at Hercules Research Center in Wibnington, Dd. LOU PIZZINI '59 is a research assodatr at Wyandotte Oieniicals Cbrp., Wyandotte, Mich. JAY YOUNG HLD . '50, wfiose son John is a C ^ at ND, is currently a visiting pro­fessor at Caileton U., Ottawa, Canada. 
BID. Columba Cunan CSC 
Department of Chemistiy 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
msroRY JOHN MARZALEK, now of Gannon Col­lege, Erie, Pa., has been married since 1965 to the former Jeanne Kozmer. They have two boys and expect a thiid chOd by the time this appears in print Since leaving ND in 1965 John has been in 'N^etnam and at Canisius Cdlege. Tbis year he received a faculty research grant at Gannon. John informs me that RICHARD MEISETER, also tbe father of two witti a third txpeOeA, has moved from TUvier U. to the U. of Midiigan at Flint and that RICHARD DEL VECCHIO is teaching at Nazareth CoDege in Rodiester, N.Y. WILLIAM GWINN has been chairman of the histoiy department at Nazareth for 
many years. 
Bn>. BERNARD DONAHOE will be at SL Mary's Odlege again this year. Rev. JAMES ZATKO, lAo qmt two years at Loras Cidlege in Dubuque, Iowa, and a year at the Fidleiton campus of die U. of California since leaving ND, w3l return to scenic, exdting noithein Indiana this fall and join the St Maiy's staff. 
Sr. ANN (formeriy VERONA) KESSLER writes that the informatioa about her in the last issue oi ALUMNUS is out-of-dat& nns year she has a sabbatical from Mount Maty College and is at Marquette teaching and doing a book on Benedictiiie history. She would enjoy hearing from old dass­mates. Write 2114 W. Michigan, No. 18, Milwankee, Wis. 53233, or phone 414-933-2199. 
Sr. MARY ADELE GORMAN OSF has been diairman of die Division of History and Social Sciences at Our Lady of Angels College in Glen Kiddle, Pa., for the past five years. JAMES MANEY has been appointed dean of men at Biscayne College in Mianu. Congratulations, Jim, thou^ considering the manner in which student "activism" is manifested these days, condolences might be more in order. JOHN SAUNDERS is teaching at Frederick CoUege in Virginia. Rev. JOSEPH McKEON now has a parish at St Teresa of Avila church in South Ozone Park, N.Y. 

Sports fans mil be semiddi^ted to learn that the history department entry in the ND summer slow-pitch softball league over«4ielnied two opponents, underwhelmed 10, and occupied the same place in the league as Ney's rear guard in the Napoleonic army retreating from Moscow. Nonetheless we made many friends and bu3t character. Major league scouts vibo followed us suspected that those departments that finished ahead of us in the standings low­ered academic standards in order to attract athletic talent A protest to the NCAA is under consideration. 
Bernard Norling Department of History Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
LAW SCHOOL The Law School started classes in August with an all-time record for total enrollment (351 students) and for enndlment in the beginning class (195 students). There are 77 students in the second-year class (23 of them in London) and 79 in their third year. 
The entering class shows a sharp increase in veterans (20, as compared with five in the second-year class and ei^t in their third year) and in Notre Dame graduates (42, as compared with IS in the second-year class and 12 in the third-year dass). Fifty-two of the incoming students are married; they range in age from 20 to 52. Twenty-one of the new students are women. 
The second-year class has 32 married members and ranges from age 21 to 42; the third-year class has more than half married —44 members—and ranges in age from 22 to 41. 
Overall enrollment in the Law School repre­sents 37 states and two foreign nations (Japan and the United Kingdom). The students come from 124 different domestic and foreign colleges and universities. New York continues to provide more ND law students than any other state (51); Indiana is a dose second this year (48), followed by sizeable ddegations from California, lUinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, Ohio and Pennsylvania. 
Most of the students are graduates of Catholic hberal arts colleges, but nearly one-third are from non-Catholic schools. These indude Southwestern and Pacific colleges (Texas, U. of California, Arizona State, Southern Cali­fornia) as well as Eastern colleges (U. of Maryland, U. of Massachusetts, Howard, N.Y.U.). Students come from the mountains (U. of Idaho, U. of Oregon), from the Deep South (Tuskcsee, Talladega, Florida State) and from the Midwest (Indiaiu U., Purdue, Michigan State, U. of Michigan, «iio U.). 
In September, SoUdtor General Erwin GiiswoM addressed the Law School on the current state <^ American legal edu­cation. General Griswold, who was for years dean of the Harvard Law School, was on campus to hdp kick oS the new Law 
Center drive. 
Dean William B. Lawless was 
elected to the council of the Section of 
Judidal Administration, American Bar Assn. 
He replaced Bernard Segal, new ABA 
president At the annual Indiana Judicial 
Conference in Bloomington in September, 
Prof. Peter W. Thornton was mod­
erator for a panel of judges on the new 
Indiana Civil Procedure Act 
Dean Lawless announced in September the 
appointment of Prof. Thomas L. Shaffer 
as assodate dean of the Law School and 
of Prof. Leslie G. Foschio as assistant dean. 
Shaffer has general administrative duties: 
Foschio assists the dean on special projects 
and is in charge of recruitment, applica­
tions and scholarships. 
Prof. John J. Broderick was appointed to 
a task force on law enforcement for 
Northern Indiana. The task force win work 
on establishing a police academy for 
the Indiana Criminal Justice Commission. 
Justice Walter V. Schaefer, of the Illinois 
Supreme Court, a member of the Law 
School Advisory Council, recdved the ABA 
Medal, the highest honor of the nationally 
organized profession. The ABA hailed 
Justice Schaefer as "a lawyer's judge." 
Tom Shaffer 
Law School 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
PHYSICS 
JOHN A. CAPE'58 (physical electronics), wife, Judith, and three children, Christa, Anthony and R. Joseph, live at 293 Calle Higuera, Camarillo, Calif. 93010. From 1958-60, John was a postdoctoral research associate at the U. of Illinois. He jmned Atomics International, Canoga Park, Calif., in 1960 as a research specialist In 1964, John left Atomics International to become a member of the technical staff at the Sdence Center of the North American Rockwell Corp., Thousand Oaks, Calif. 
JOSEPH H. CHEN '58 (hig]i polymer physics), wife, Michaeline, and six chiMien, Mark, David, Thomas, Carolyn, Philip and Pamela. live at 52 St Mary St, Needhiun, Mass. 02194. Joe joined the ftculty of the Department of Miysics at Boston CoUege in 1958 and currently holds the rank of associate professor of physics there. Since 1966 he has also been serving as a con­sultant at the Ledgemont Laboratory of the Kennecott Copper Corp. 
DONALD R. CONNORS '57 (nudear physics), wife, Hden, and four dUMren, Mark, David, JiU and Michelle, live at 654 Rolling Green Dr., Bethd Park, Pa. 15102. Don recdved his B.S. degree from Notre Dame in 1952 and decided to stay on with us for graduate woric in physics. He joined the Westin^ioase Bectiic Corp. in 1956 and is currently manager at the physics division of Westin^iouse's Betlis Atomic Power Laboratories, West MiflSn, Pa. At last report, Don was ^so in the process of acquiring a legal education at Duquesoe 
U. and expected to receive his J.D. degree in June '68. 
DANIEL F. DEMPSEY '57 (nudear vbyscs), wife, Joan, and three children, Susan, Patrick and Mary, live at 6641 Powers Rd., Orchard Park, N.Y. 14127. Dan joined the faculty of the Department of Physics at Canisius College, Buffalo, N.Y., in '56 and currently hcdds the rank of associate professor of physics at Canisius. 
JAMES L. GUMNICK '58 (physical 
decnoaki), wife^ Jcai^ lad liiw didfca, ktm. Aame. EdwHd and Maty. i*e at 12S DeeriMd M , Hwiiwal. » . MOOt. Roaa 1957-<4> JiM aenti m rhiirin at He Depaitmeal of Ikjaci tt Xogwls CnlBte in BaHimoie. He"doiAMi«hamTimdm the suae period ai a idcalirt ia'Ihe RIAS dmaM iof Marti* Maiktia Cotp. Jim left Uqwia Cdkse (and MvemUmi­ettMCorp.)iml9f4tammmiiteviia6mtt tHrector of ttttmk at ITT ladailiiil • Labotalories ia Fort Wajrac Ind. He left ITT IB 196t aad it cameatly aeniag at­tedrnjcaldneciorof ttetlTKtricil tagnwiiBB dqwtmeai of tte firaaUia lartilnte't rescard laboralones^ PMadc^An, Pa. 
Robert L. Antfwwy 
Departiaeiit of Fhynci 
None Dame. Ind. 4«S56 
SOCIOLOGY AND ANIHBOfOUIGy F6r most nuadma of Ike rtafl^ smaMr brouiM litde r^ale firooi the liion ot Oe regular afademic year. Dr. D'Antooio, in a notable feat of leaerdeaani, somehow mana>nd to pot tte : toadies on seveial chapters of the new introdadoiy text he Is coanthoiint; commnie to and &MB RdMB, ToL, lite of a commoiaQr rcaeaick aiid:nhtiailaliMi ptoject he is dtoectim; and ma dw d^ait­ment Prof. Kaae med the laie snaMier to revisit the "aoMe sod." where he witnessed firsthand some of the blest cpiiodrt in the "Irish ptoUem." 
Piofcssort Lia and RnM were off to the Philipiaiies to work on the fonnef's . AID-fimded icieaidi pnject on &iBiy structure and feitiity. Dr. CNdl was traipa­ing about Mexico oa yet aaodwr leseardi project, and Praf. Dasihra dirided his tone between Baza and Paris. Dr. Press, after servinc asfield doedor lor the nbena project, tatfaered tofctter his wiie^ two smdl dddren and two SOinoad cartoas of disposable diapers aad hMded for Spain, where he wilqind Oe ooaaog sAool year on cmss-caltural research ink> folic nedk&ie. . Dr. Wciiert and vouse saiauwl in Pullman. Wash., in fiather panoit of the aodtioo ol rdipon. At saaaBcr's end, San FrandsGO. scene of Oe I9i9 American SocnlogiGal Assn. Coa»catiua, became the niccca for most membeis of the doMitmeat and for sofiolugiili ia flcaeiaL 
The oooveuioa pmnilded aaqde opportu­nities to renew argmintances with it-. paitraenlal ahmiBi. FRANK CIZON tas joined IndianaU.'sstaSat Gaiy. QOKJiOH IRVING OMI coolinaes as dqiartmeat diairmaa at St Tatatk's ColIeK Ottawa. JIM DAVIDSON PhO^gave a paper at 
hdd ia Rome. J( » SCHLANGEN is fid­fining his miliiaiy nMigsiinn aad sinul-' taneoosiy mdoag nse of his knowkdte of sociological researdiwhae on astipBneat at the U.S. Mililafy Academy. SYLVESTER THEISEN was leccaUr made cootdmalor between die Coleie of St. Benedkt aad St John's U. ia Miaarinta 
Some local obsetven am diiaiiag Oat the most catadysaac social event ia recent years was Ae ABB. 26 maiiiait of your faithfid cotrespoadeat to the Io«ety Maiy Jeanne Weber llA.'69. Ite happca­ing; many fed. deak harhtloihood aaMttal btoiw from wlaA it may aevcr lecovcr. 
Robert H. Vasoli Depaitmeat of SOCMOBT and AMhnipolagy Notre Dame. Ind. 46SS6 
iPN mE€Q£S^ 
ESGAGEMENTS 

Miss Joanne G. Shaheen to DAVID J. LARSEN '64. Miss Carole Pendergrass to Spec. 4 TIMOTHY BORN '68. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Margaret Webh to DON CUR­LOVIC '60, Aug. 23. Miss Ida Marie Jannetta to JAMES C. HIGGINS '62, SepL 20. . Miss Carol Hagen to GEORGE Q. EVANS '63, May 31. Miss Beth Aime De Caussemaker to JOHN EDWARD WELCH '63, SepL 6. Miss Lynda Mar Gumz SMC to JAMES M. CONDON '64, M.A. '68, SepL 13. 
Miss Suzette Cfaalifoux Ellsworth to FRANCIS E. BUDARZ '65, M.A. '69, OcL 11. 
Miss Michaele Antoinette Cbamblee to ALPHONSO AUGUSTINE CHRISTIAN II '65, SepL 6. 
Miss Manha Kellett to FRANCIS N. HINCHEY II '65, May 10. 
Miss Carol Marie Mele to Navy LL JOSEPH MICHAEL KENNEDY '65, Aug. 16. 

Miss Konyn Felicia Heinze to MICHAEL JOHN McLANE '65, SepL 13. Miss Mary Anne DeWUde to MICHAEL ANTHONY WALTER M.S. '65, SepL 6. Miss Mary C. QayweU to JOHN WYL­LIE lU '66, June 2. Miss Jane O'DeU to PETER BALDACCI '67, Fdj. 14. 
Miss Helen Schnaus SMC '69 to J. MICHAEL COTHNGHAM '67, Aug. 9. 

Miss Cathy Mumane SMC '68 to BOB HINCHEY '67. Miss Mary Lou Carlson to ROBERT HODGSON '67, Aug. 23. Miss Nancy E. Kaprak to PAUL R. JOHNSON '67, April 12. Miss Virgmia T. TTiieme SMC '69 to FRANK T. JORDAN '67, Aug. 23. Miss Carolyn Ann McNelis to GERALD J. O'CONNOR '67, August, 1968. Miss Barbara Jean Hoyt to PATRICK J. O'DEA '67, July 12. 
Miss Alison Mary Whittaker SMC '69 to Marine 2nd LL THOMAS C. RINK '67, Aug. 30. 
Miss Ann McMahon SMC '68 to Coast Guard Ens. RANDOLPH A. SUTLIFF '67, Jan. 25. 

Miss Leslie Catherine Long to MARK TARKINGTON '67, Aug. 16. Miss Carolyn L. Rader to ROBERT A. VAZQUEZ '67, May 30. Miss Sherry Del Gavel to CLETUS R. WILLEMS '67, July 19. Miss Catherine Ann Tomac to GARY J. ADLER '68, Aug. 30. Miss Dotma de Manbey SMC '68 to GEORGE BOYNTON '68, Nov. 2, 1968. Miss Joan Kay Smith to PHILIP BRIAN CARTER '68, Aug. 29. 
Miss Sharon Linnehan SMC '68 to JOHN THOMAS GASSMAN '68, M.S. '69, Oct 4. 
Miss Ann Therese Hamill to LEONARD ANTHONY GOODER '68, SepL 5. Miss Liz Langford SMC '70 to ROBERT P. JONES '68, June 7. 
Miss Karen Bemadette Kelly SMC '69 to RICHARD EDWARD LYMAN '68, June 21. 
Miss Pamela Sue Nosko to MICHAEL PATRICK ABBATE '69, SepL 13. Miss Karen Sue McOoughan to JOHN STEPHEN CARR '69, SepL 6. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. PAUL FARMER '53, a daughter, Aug. 2. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD E. O'CONNOR '54, a son, Thomas, February. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD P. JACOB '57, a daughter, Maureen A., Dec 11, 1968. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS A. AURELIO 
'60, a son, Thomas Anthony II, SepL 11. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER BARNISKIS '60, a daughter, Rebecca Ann, June 14. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD M. GREENE 
'61, a daughter. Sheila, Maidi 24. Mr. and Mrs. BRENDAN D. O'NEILL '61, a dau^ter. Colleen Ann, July 8. Dr. and Mrs. DONALD RICE '61. a son, Matthew Fitzgerald, Jan. 31. Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT P. DRNEVICH '62, a son, Paul Louis, April 9. Mr. and Mrs. H. JAMES KRAUSER '62, a daughter, Kelly, July 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. WEIN­SHEIMER '62, a son, Kurt Rudolf, May 20. 
Mr. and Mis. WILLIS F. FRY '63, a daughter. Amy Marie, Sept. 13. Mr. and Mrs. CLASSEN GRAMM '63L, a daughter, Anne Marie, Aug. 27. Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL BOHEN '64, a daughter, Ann Kathleen, Mardi 5. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH DEUTSCH '64. a son, Joseph Peter, May 9. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID W. ELUS '64, a daughter, Carole Patricia, SepL 6. Navy LL and Mrs. DON DEDA '66, a daughter, Karen Lynn, April 29. Mr. and Mis. KURT GUTER '67, a son, Erik Andrew, May 10. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD J. KOMA '67, a daughter, Kristen Neely, SepL 30, 1968. Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN L. VOGEL '67, a son, Michael Andrew, Aug. 4. Mr. and Mis, W.R. WILLARD JR. '67, a son, Michael Padraic, Aprfl. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. NIEHAUS Ph.D. '68, a daughter. Amy Marie Elizabeth, June 7. 
Army LL and Mrs. JOHN V. PUIG '68, a son, John Valentine II, Aug. 17. 
SYMPATHY 
THEODORE C. RADEMAKER '19 on the death of his wife, Dorothy, SepC II. FREDERICK W. WEIDNER '35 on the death of his wife, Patricia, August, EDWARD T. FLANIGAN '38 on the death of his son, Thomas F., SepL IS. 1968. Bio. LAURIAN LaFOREST CSC '40 on the death of his mother, Josephine. Aug. 21. JAMES T. BARRY JR. '55 on the death of his mother, August 
PAUL F. NISSI '61 on the death of his sister, Mrs. Cari J. Wrenn Jr.. September. 
DAVID W. ELLIS '64 on the death of his father, John Ellis, Jime 16. 
PAUL R PEZZA '66 on the death of his father, August Pezza, Jan. 10, and his grandfather, Paul Pezza, April IS. 
DEATHS 
FRANK SCANLON '10. He is survived by his widow, 209 Lincoln Place, BrooUyn, N.Y. 
JOHN N. CLANCY '21, June 22. He is survived by his family, 6S20 N. Ocean Blvd., Ocean Ridge, Delray Beach, Fla. 
33444. 
FRED B. DRESSEL LL.B. "22, Aug. 24. He was a South Bend attorney. He is survived by his widow, 906 E. Washington Ave., South Bend, Ind., and by two daughters and one son. 
WILLIAM T. FITZGERALD Ph.BC. '23, SepL 1, of a heart attack. He was president of the Indiana Bar Assn. (1953) and a state senator in Indiana. He was listed in Who's Who in America and in 1959 was named Notre Dame "Man of the Year." He is survived by his widow, 398 S. Alvord St., EvansviOe, Ind., and by three daughters. 
ALBERT McGANN '23, Aug. 9. He was owner and founder of the former Albert McGann Securities Co., Inc., of South Bend. He is survived by his widow and a daughter, both of South Bend. 
HUGH F. BLUNT '24, July 24. He was an attorney in Brockton, Mass., and was a charter member and first president of the Notre Dame Club of Boston. He is survived by his widow, 73 Kenelworth Av e Brockton, Mass., and by two dau{^ters. 
JOHN E. KENNELLY "25^ He is survived by his widow, 9895 S.W. 74th St, South Miami, Fla. 33143. 
CHARLES H. KRETSCHMER JR. '33, SepL 5. He was founder of Kretschmer Wheat Germ Corp. He is survived by his mdow, 1295 Lathrup, Saginaw, Mich. 48603, and by three daughters. 
LOUIS C. BROWN '34, Aug. 30, 1969, of cancer. He was emjdoyed by the Hunt Oil Refinery. He is survived by his widow, 4729 A Fifth Ave. E., Tuscaloosa, Ala. 35401. 
THOMAS G. PROCTOR '35, LL.B. '38, July 29. He is survived by his family, 201 E. 21st SL, New York, N.Y. 10010. 
BERNARD S. GOOD '39, Feb. 10. He was a Florida real estate developer. He is survived by his widow, 630 Coral Way, Apt 35, Coral Gables, Fla. 33134, and by a son and daughter. 
JAMES J. KANE JR '44. He was an attorney and head of the Lincoln Park Federal Savings & Loan Assn., Chicago. He is survived by his widow, 6127 N. Forest Glen Ave., Chicago, 111., and by six sons and three daughters. 
JOHN W. (TREE) ADAMS '45, Aug. 20. He played tackle for the Wash­ington Redskins for four years and was one of the first of pro football's huge and roobOe linemen. He resided at 3500 14th SL NW, Washington, D.C. 20010. 
Rev. FLORIAN MICHAEL HUDAC 

M.A. '47, Aug. 25. He was a teacher and coach for 29 years at Benedictine High School, Cleveland. He is survived by one brother and six sisters. 
PERLEY H. PROVOST JR. MJL. '52, SepL 2S, of a heart attack. He was director of the Indiana Depaitment of Natural Resources. Gov. Edgar D. Whit­comb, a close personal and political friend, headed a long list of state dignitaries attmding the funeral services. Mr. Provost is survived by his widow, 53330 N. IronwDod, South Bend, Ind., and by three diQdren. 
RICHARD H. WOLFE '59, Aug. 16. He was physics department chairman at Siena Caaeec Loudonville, N.Y., and adjunct professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institnte, Troy. N.Y. He is survived by his widow, four sons and two daughters, 3 Lark SL, Troy, N.Y., and by a brother, JACK P. '66. 
cs.ums: 
Making a "way 
Forty-one blocks uptown from the. 
plush New York Athletic Club, a 
favorite spot among many ND 
alumni, is Harlem's East 100 
Street. But East 100 Street is for 
people who have trouble coming up 
with $55 each month for a run-down 
flat—not, for the most part, for 
ND graduates. 
Paying the rent for one of those fiats this summer was CILA, the Coun­cil for the International Lay Aposto­late at N.D. And living in that fifth-floor walk-up were two ND under­graduates and two alumni: CILA President David DeCoursey, a senior theology major from Prairie Village, Kan.; Rick Bums, a junior psy­chology-philosophy major from Pittsburgh; Steve John, a 1969 ND graduate in sociology from Falls Church, Va.; and Pat Berg, a 1969 graduate of the ND Law School from Portland, Ore. 
The group arrived in Harlem with no structured plan to greet then^— their task was to get to know the block, learn from its people, possibly to help a little, too. Before long, the four became involved with a tutoring center on the comer, where they spent the mornings teaching English—especially to Spanish-American children who enrolled in English-language schools this fall. 
It was with the help of the NYC ND Alumni Club that CILA and the kids on the block filled their afternoons. Hikes in the parks and camping trips in the outskirts got the green light with a $500 gift for camping equipment from the alumni club. According to members of the project, Jim Griffin and John Crowe, former ND East Coast repre­sentative, were of particular help. Crowe supplied some advice for the future financial needs of CILA; Griffin served as CILA's contact man throughout the summer. "Once when we had Jim and his wife over to our flat for supper," said Bums, "he was able to give each of the four of us at least one crucial tip in reference to the different projects we were pursuing at the moment." He arranged plans with a motion picture agency to lend CILA films each week to show to the kids on the block. 
A plan to turn three vacant lots on the block into a "people's park of the East" ran out of time at the end of the summer. Several alumni had procured 12 tons of high-grade topsoil—in case the lots could have been cleared in time. 
"The generous assistance of the NYC Alumni Club and its members," said Bums, "is a good example of what other clubs can do to aid CILA in its efforts in the U.S. and Latin America." 
Next summer, limited fiinds may force the shutdown of several CILA projects. Most students just cannot afford to spend the summer without pay—unless they are given scholar­ship assistance for their work in CILA. Of equal importance to the members of CILA is the need for a scholarship fund for students from the "barrios of North and South America with both the desire and the ability to study at ND." As is the case with much of what the group wants to undertake, they have the will—but not the way. 
CILA members working in Harlem during the summer. 
AKBON DENNIS SHAUL '60, former student body president and Rhodes Scholar, extended his history of success with an impressive win in the strongly contested primary election for Akron city council. The Akron alumni endorse Shaul and plan to par­ticipate in a great campaign to insure his victory in the November general election. 
The new officers for 1969-70 were in­stalled at the annual ND-SMC picnic. They are: BOB STACK '41 — president; JACK GIBBONS '63 — vice-president; DICK NOVITSKY — treasurer; and GREG FAUST '63 — secretary. This event, free to all ND and SMC alums, students and parents of current and incoming students, was graciously hosted by Marianne and BOB FABBRO at their "resort-like" home. Nancy and DICK FABBRO assisted with the arrangements, which included a folk Mass on the lawn. 
Hie ND Man of the Year award was a well-eamed farewell surprise for JIM DETTLING '61, who has been promoted to branch manager by Bache and Co. Jim daims it is just coincidence that he will be moving his family to God's country — Soudi Bend! 
Jack Gibbons '63 

BOSTON The freshman sendK>II was SepL 4, under the able direction of NEIL FOWLER '47. Approximately 25 new freshmen and their dads attended. John Mroz 70 and Tom Myers "70 were on hand to answer ques­tions about student life at ND. 
ART MURPHY '59 and Rev. JACK FITZGERALD '55, club chaplain. led a group of alumni out to Norfolk County Prison on Sept. 23 to participate in Holy Name activities at the prison. 
Nov. 14 has been selected as the date of this year's Suffolk Downs event MIKE OTOOLE '55, chairman, is looking for a big turnout and a lot of winners. 
Mike O'Toole '55 

•UFFALO Fan season club activities got off to a quick start with our annual freshman send-off, chairmaned by BILL O'CONNOR on Sept. 8 at the new M & T Plaza. Parents, incoming freshmen, alumni and guests were.brou^t up-to-date on social, athletic and study programs at the University by three well-informed local undergraduates. Tlie 1968 highlight football film followed the presentation of the Buffalo Club ND scholarship to Dick Reilly, class of 73. Dick, a Lockport, N.Y., hi ^ school grad, will start in premed. Refreshments were enjoyed by the 50-plus people, and con­versations touched on the prospects for a good year. 
President BILL KANE reviewed the coming events at the send-off and, as re­ported earlier, our general meeting on Nov. 5 with alumni and wives will have guest speaker Judge Mattina giving us insight into the drug addiction problem in our commimity. Also, on Nov. 7 a Night at the Philharmonic featuring the music of Meredith Wilson will be a special feature at Kleinhans Music HalL 
Shiriey Allen, my better half, reports that the wine-tasting party in eariy September, given by Maty Ann Donius, president of ND alumni wives, was a delightful succcess. The Christian Brotheis did a fine presentation and 18 alum wives are now preparing their husbands' dinners withfine-tasting wines. 

John Allen '56 
CLEVELAND On SepL 9, 1969, we hosted the incoming freshmen of both ND and SL Mary's at SL John's College. We were fortunate to be graced with an appearance from the Honorable JIM GIBBONS from the Uni­versity's Public Relations Office. Jim's address was demonstrative, practical and enlightening to the ffeshmen, coeds, parents and also to us officers «4io attended the orientatioiL The prospective students of both schocds went to South Bend equipped with the necessary fundamentals; they know enough to send home for money when the situation calls for iL After the meeting, refreshments were served and all the parents went home happy and assured they were sending their sons or daughters to the finest schotds in the country. Congratulations to Codiaiinien TONY DeBAGGIS '51 and JAY WILBUR '63 for the fine evening of entertainmenL A sincere thanks goes out to Jim for his very informative presentation. 
On SepL 11, our alumni golf party was held at Avon Oaks Country Club, and the hackers performed admirably imder the Lake Erie breeze and sunny skies of our Far West golf annex. Cbcliaimien EDDIE JOYCE and GECHIGE HAHN set the program up with anybody courageous enough to lift up a club bdng assured of seven door prizes each. GEORGE DURKIN '56 was the big winner, taking home a tandem, an air-conditioned sleeping bag, an erector set and a new wife. PAT CANNEY, class of all ages, came out for the exclusive purpose of keeping scores, since we were all on the honor system and needed prompting from the roughs. 
Patrick J. Cannon '55 
COLUMBUS On Aug. IS, the club sponsored a night at the races at Scioto Downs. The 47 people attending had a great time, especially Joan GERLACHER (TOM '64) and DAN CANNON '30, who were the winners of the ND daily double. Chairman of the event was DON ROTHERMICH '63. 
The foUomng week. JOHN GUENIN '62 chairmaned, and DAN IGOE '65 along with three students from ND co4osted, the freshman orientation dinner. All IS in­coming freshmen were there with their parents. 
The student-alumni fall picnic was SepL 
6. The turnout was great and the annual student-alumni touch football game was a big success. The' alunni won again in another dose game, 12-6. Tlie altmin interior linemen DICK LAUBER '61. JOHN QUENIN '62 and JERRY EISENMAN '63, with their fierce blocking, nBhing and interception for a touchdown, were iima roost of the credit for die vicloiy. The cochairmen, JACK MUKPHY '61 and JOHN IX»IRIAN '60, did a fine job on this evenL 
Don Rothermich '63 
DALLAS The aimual back-to-school smoker was 
SepL S at the Quadran^e in Dallas. Our speaker was Ddlas Cowboy quarterback BOB BELDEN '69, who presented the bigh­liejit films of last season's Cowboy and ND games. Inddentally, Bob maintained his 100 per cent coU ^ and pro pass comple­tion average by hitting a 28-yard pass in his first pro appearance — against the Jets in preseason pUy. We are particulaily pleased to have Bob in Didlas, as be is the first ND graduate to play with the Cowboys. 

A large contingent from the club journeyed to New Orieans for the Tulane game on the weekend of OcL 25. 
Paul Underkofler '58 

DEAmORN Our 1969-70 season got off on the right foot SepL 12, with the September general meeting hdd at the home of JOE BYRNE '52. Events for the new season were dis­cussed, with emphasis on the football trip being planned for the Navy game, Nov. 1. For more information and tickets, call GEORGE TOBIN '48 (838-7492) or DICK KING '37 (LO 1-16S4). 
All alumni in the area who are on the dub mailing list and who have not re­turned the questionnaire sent out this summer, please return it in the envelope that was eiKlosed. We are going to in­corporate a new mailing system, and only those persons who have paid their dues will be informed of regular meetings and special events. 
JOHN J. FISH JR. '54 took a summer vacation to Canada with his family. His adventures induded a stop at Stratford to see the very fine play Hadrian Vlt, starring Hume Cronyn. 
DAVID "LARRV DOLAN '47 is very proud of his second-oldest son, Dan, who has joined the Cisterdan Monastery at Oconomowoc, Wis. Good luck, Dan! 
Tim Devine '65 
DECATUR Through the guiding hand of JOHN DUNN '58, LL.B. '61, a big assist from DAN CAREY '61 and an emergency recovery by John Shiel, two busloads attended the Purdue-ND game. Our national meeting is shaping up. 
Steve Graliker '42 
DEISOIT The ND golf outing on July 29 was an­other successAiI evenL Chairman MIKE MONAGHAN '60, with the assistance of WALT BERNARD '54 and GREG SCHWARTZ '63, did a fine job. Among the guests from the campus were Coach Tom Pagna, Coach Paul Schultz, Rev. JEROME WILSON and Rev. CLARENCE DURBIN. 
The annual kick-oS party and welcome of new freshmen and'their fathers was held at the Bostfoid Inn, owned by JOHN ANHUT '44, on SepL 3. Cochairmen LEN TROTTA '59, JOHN PANELLI '49 and JIM COLOSfMO '60 presented an outstanding program iriiich induded a detailed description by JC»IN PLOUFF of the new athletic complex. 
President TOM MOORE '58 has two goals for the balance of the year, the first being the implementation of the Detroit club schcdaiship, which is comidetely funded as of Ais year. The second objec­tive is the development of an active re­cruiting conunittee to hdp direct the out­standing high school students in the area toND. 
Terrence E. Keating '60 
FAIKFIELD COUNTY, CONN. On Aug. 24, the Fairfield County club sponsored the annual freshman send«fl at the General Putiuun Iim in Norwalk. TOM MAXWELL '62 was chairman of the arrangements. Six current freshmen and their parents from thiou^ut Fairfield County attended. JIM GIBBONS from the campus did an excellent job of presenting student life at ND and Univeisity policies and programs. 
The club hdd a raffle for all Fairfield Coun­ty club members for an "all-expenses-paid trip" for two to New Oileans for the Tulane game. Drawing for the lucky winner was at 4 p.m., Oct 19 at the General Putnam Inn in Norwalk. Club President LARRY MURCHAN '66 and JOHN LAMBERT '52 handled the arrangements. BILL REIDY 'S3 is in charge of the club Communion bieakfast on Dec. 7. 
TERRENCE McGOVERN '44 moved to Greenwich from California. Terry was in the combined A.B.-law program but left ND after four years and finished at Loyola in Los Angeles. JEFF NEUBERT '64 moved into a new home in Darien and has rejoined the club. JeS is associate product manager, Kool-Aid division of General Foods in White Plains.' ALBERT 
P. McGUIRE '44 now makes his home at 52 Seminary SL in New Canaan, Cotm. Al is vice-president of chemical operations, Stauffer Chemical in New York City. 
ND alumni moving into the Fairfield County area should contact the club secre­tary, PETER HEARDEN '37,, to get on the dub mailing list Hearden ii listed in the Manhattan and Greenwich, Conn., tele­phone directories. 
Peter Hearden '37 
FORT WAYNE The Fort Wayne ND club hdd its annual prefootball season smoker at St Charies Borromeo Hall on Sept 3. This year's incoming ND freshmen and other students from the area were invited as guests and were introduced to the members. Guest speakers for the evening were JOE MUL­LIGAN and Rev. ED WHALEN from the Admissions Office at the University, who enlightened the members and guests concerning the current operation of the student regulatory system and its impact on hall and campus life. Msgr. Donald Isenbarger, prindpal of Central Catholic High School, said a few words concerning scholarship activities at C.C 
An dection of officers was hdd and the new slate of officers is as follows: presi­dent—Phil Clemens; vice-president—^DON DIMBERIO; treasurer—JIM JOCK; and secretary—ART WITUCKI. Sandwiches and refreshments were enjoyed by all, and many joined in the several card games and bull sessions after the meeting. 
The retiring officers (RON SOWERS— president; CONNIE JANKOWSKI—vice­president; and DAN MUNSON—secretary­treasurer) would like to thank the member­ship for their support over the post two years and fed an extra word of thanks is due the University and the Alumni Assn. for their cooperation in providing assistance, especially for the many fine speakers we have enjoyed over the past several years. We hope this situation win continue to flourish in the forthcoming years. 
Dan Munson '54 
INDIANAPOLIS LEO BARNHORST '49 did his usual fine job as chairman of the annual golf outing Aug. 7 at the Country Club of Indianapdis. One hundred and twenty-two men phyed golf, and 145 attended the dinner and program. Rev. JAMES RIEHLE, dean of students, and coaches GEORGE KELLY and Wally Moore joined the dub for this event They brought the dub members in attendance up-to-date on iHiat is hap­pening in their respective spheres of endeavor at ND. WALT JONES '43 won the P.C. Reilly Trophy for low gross, while TIP WILLIAMS '49 took the new 
E.C. McNamara Trophy, awarded to the low gross score by an alum under 45. Had Walt been under 45 he woidd have taken both trophies. 
On Sept 7, JIM WELCH again made his home avaQable to the ND student dub to stage the freshman orientation get-together for the new students and tbdr fathers. Student Club President JOHN DAVIS and his officers were fine hosts for this successfid event 
Again this year the dub will have a series of Friday noon luncheons during the football season. SID BAKER '66 is chair­man this year, and all luncheons will be at the Victorian Room of the Riley Center. An interesting program and a fine meH have been promised for each of the luncheons. 
BO CONNOR, chairman, announces that the ND Corporate Communion will be held this year on Monday evening, Dec. 8, at Fatima Retreat House. Mass will be at 6 p.ni., followed by refreshments and a meal. It is hoped that by having this event in the evening more ND men and their wives will attend. Get a sitter lined up now for the club's main spiritual function of the year. 
Lawrence A. O'Connor Jr. '65 
MAINE The ND Alumni Assn. of Maine hdd its annual picnic at Thomas Point Beach near Brunswick, Maine,'on Aug. 16. Among the alumni attending were: STAN LIBERTY '65, NORMAND LAUREN­DEAU '66, JESS DeLOIS '42, JCSIN BELIVEAU '59, DANA DEVOE '59 and RAY GEIGER '32. Four of the five freshmen attended. These were: Joseph DeLois, Kevin Muse, Richard J. McLoy and Paul Gossdiit One had to work. We were ideased to have Gene Geiger "71 back from Innsbruck to tell about ND and to give guidance to these young men. 
The new slate of officers dected for the ensuing year is as fidlows: JOSEPH D. DOYLE '42, president; JOHN B. BELIVEAU '59, vice-president; DANA DEVOE '59, treasurer; and RAY GEIGER '32, secretary. 
The dub dedded to cosponsor the ND Band for an appearance next April 4. The other sponsor is the United Fund of LewiMDO-Anbiim. It dHNid be « • caioji^Ue albir and Aouid add « fiew dolan to oyr admbisUp find. We awwund at Ike­inpctiin dnt Acre were ttree boyi aided to the aBouot of $S0O I for the coniiiB year. Ike fiad is aot a . large mi^ but it is dde to do aaav thinp in a concieie wttf to aid Beedsr boys. 
Ray Geiter '32 
MUWAUKEE 
July 14 started the cMb's new yew. The 
occasion was the aiMiinl foif outing at 
the West Bend Coontiy CUb. so wdl 
arranged by B( » and TOM HOLFS. In 
additim to tmrnenling the taaf, about 40 
ahmmi eiiioyed a progmn headed by 
George Kdbr (defemive coadi) andWEMF 
Sports Director Tom CbOiiii. KKMESBC, 
after leading the dob Aron^ a yaj —• 
successful year, paswd Ae gavd to tiie 
newly elected presideiM, DAVE MURPHY. 
Other officeis dected were: MARK 
PPALLER—honoraiy president; B(M 
CLEMENCY—vice-pRsideBt; DAVE 
ROEMER—secretaiy; aiid DICK EHR— 
treasurer. For the first time, a board of 
directois was also dected. 
The meaibefs were also informed that the 
dab directoiy is again going to be 
published this year. 
The fan smoker (wives, etc, invited) was hdd on Sept 29 at the Fabat Brewery. AI McGuire, Marquette U. basketball coach, and a smpiise goest highKghtfd a program wfaidi also indnded the most recent football hi|)ili|]its. 
David L. Roemer '60 
MUSKEGON The big summer event eadi year is the gidf stag, and to faOow op on lAat has already vpeated, it shoidd be stated that STAN TYLER, our presideal, sboidd be given a lot of credit for oigamziiig these eadt year over the past 10 years. P^aps someday we can present him wiA a bhie and gold medaHioiL 
The fdlows eiqoy the prizes they win at these outings but always, as again the year, look to the big prize taken hrane (to Hackley Uinon Bank, where he is imditor) by BILL TARDINI, our bidiful treasurer of many years, in the fonn of the profit whidi we apply to our did> adnlanhip fund. 
We fed that these outings, meeting with Fr. Durbin, and our own link boost from the dub are ttspotabk for getting one of our fine young golfeis, Mike LaFrance, away from Houston and into ND, where he is enndliog as a freshman this fan. We think he win be a credit to the school and a fine ND man. 
Leo L. Linck '43 
NEW (HOfANS We had an unexpected visitor for our Aug. 17 did) picnic — hnnicane OanillB. Needless to s^, aU the picnidwrs qmt their day preparing for 200 mph-pius winds. ED STOKL "34 and his wife rode out the storm in dieir boat near Gid^KHt, Miss. Ed tdb a dnOing tale. 
New Orleans had an influx of ahmmi, students and fiieads irf ND for the lUaae game on Oct 25. Our cbh reserved die Grand BaUroom of the Royal Sonesia Hotd, in the heart ot the Frendi Quarter, for a cocktail party and rally. Entertain­ment was provided by the Olympia Brass Band, and guests included Rev. EDMUND JOYCE CSC and ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. ND football had not graced New Orleans for over a decade. It was welcome. 
Local alumni meet at noon for a luncheon on the first Wednesday of each month at Kolb's German Restaurant, 125 SL Charies Ave. We once again urge alunui and friends who might be in New Ofieans to drop in. 
Joe DroUa '63 

NORTHEASTEKN NEW YORK Freshman send^ff was Sept 9 at Holy Cross Church Hall in Albany. Sixteen area freshmen and many parents head a panel moderated by Club President DICK CUNNINGHAM '57. Sophomores David O'Biien and Kevin O'Connell and jimior Bill McDermont encouraged the new fireshmen and warned them about the im­portance of a good start The upperclass­men gave an interesting presentation of the things to do and not to do, plus what to biing. Many questions were asked by the new freshmen and the parents. Re­freshments were served by alumni JACK McKENNA, WALTER RUDGE and PAUL CAMPION. Dick Cunningham encouraged more alumni to attend next year. 
Richard B. Cunningham '57 

OMAHA Jidy II marked the day of our first aimual ND summer golf tournament The event was at the I8-hoIe Championship Capenart Golf Course at Offutt AFB. Ei^teen alums and their guests participated, and many prizes were awarded for various feats of grff skill. JACK LEE '55, one of our promoters, had the longest drive and came dosest to the hole. We are still checking on his score. TOM OLSON shot the best score of the day—75. JIM KINEEN had the low net TOM DE PRETORO carded the most sevens, while BOB BROWN came in with the booby prize. Jack Lee was assisted by DICK THOMAS '58 in the exceUent handling of the tournament 
The club is now making plans for an autiuin diimer with the wives that will in­clude the telecast of the ND-Georgia Tech game. Our club still meets on the second Wednesday of every month for Itmcb at Johnny's Cafe. Anyone in Omaha or passing through is welcome to join us for a delicious luncheon steak. Only in Omaha .... 
Tom Fortune '57 

PEORIA On Aug. 20, the Peoria club elected as new officers: BOB GORDON '52—presi­dent; JERRY HIGGINS '56—vice-president; MIKE RYAN '64L—secretary; and BILL BRANDON '57—treasurer. 
On Sept 10, our annual back-to-school dinner for ND students from the Peoria area was held. Tbe principal speaker was our own alumnus MIKE O'BRIEN '6IL, now mayor of Peoria. The James Cassady Memorial Plaque and cash award for the area student with the highest academic average at ND the previous year went to Fred Beraardi — he had a perfect average. 
On Nov. 5, the dub wili meet in Pabst 33 Room for a discussion with several students of current campus mores at ND. 
Mike Ryan '64L 

ROCHESTER On Aug. 9 at Mendon Ponds Park, PHIL YAWMAN, asasted by his wifc^ Donna, directed the atmual family picnic iriiich turned out to be a very big job. The parents, it seemed, were outnumbered about 10-1 by veiy active kids. The football season was offidally opened with a two-hour football game wbach even left the younger generation dragging their feet 
The fredunan orientation was held at the K of C Hall on Sept 2 under the diair­manship of JOHN GLAVIN, and it was attended by all 17 incoming ffeshmen from this area and their parents. A very worthvliile and informative eveniiig was made possible by the fine efforts of four of our ND juniors: Pete Burke, Dave luppa. Bill Hanes and Kail Hetier. 
The ND women's organization bdd a very successful clambake on Sept 12. The event was planned by Jeanette Gerace, wife of PAUL GERACE, and assisted by Ann KEEGAN (TOM) and Linda SANDERSON (MIKE). Needless to say, all the dams, steamed or raw, were dis­posed of in very short order. 
During the clambake, the chairmen of our ticket raffle were busy making addi­tional distributions of the raffle tickets. MIKE WEIDNER and Mike Sanderson, who are heading the raffle this year in support of our ND scholarship fund, expect record returns. The big piize was an all­expense-paid football weekend in New Orleans for two for the NEt-TuIane game Oct 25. 
Sid Wilkin '56 

ROME ND in Rome welcomes ND's fourth-year architectural students who will study here this year accompanied by Rev. JAMES FLANIGAN CSC. Long-range wdcomes to the alunmi "Escapade to Rome" pilgrimage for forthcoming Holy Week-Easter, to be shepherded by JIM and Marion AJIM­STRONG, old Romans. Ours here to host and help. Book with Alumni Office presto! 
Mea culpa three times: In our previous report we failed to mention a genuine VIP, Mrs. Margie O'Brien, famed and deariy beloved University nurse. In Italian, we chant Mi sense. The current tide of guests includes: PAUL HELLMUTH. secretary of ND board of trustees; JAMES McBAlN '67; JOE DRINANE '30 and dau^ten DOUGLAS GIMBER '60; TOM KLISE '49 and wife; Justice JOHN MOWBRAY '49 and wife; Michael McGowan Tl; Mark Skrabacz '71 and parents; JOHN LYDON '66; MARGARET VAN DER GRACHT 
M.A. '69, of the ALUMNUS office; Capt FRANCIS BON USN Ret '26 with family; Bro. RICHARD MacDONALD CSC '50; Bto. JOSEPH ZUTELIS CSC '54; FRANK FITZSIMMONS '23 and wife; JOSEPH MORRELL "29; JAMES MULVANEY '31; mother and sister of Dr. JOSEPH COSTA '49; Prof. Irwin Press and family; HUGH FITZGERALD '34 and wife. 
Dr. GORDON DI RENZO '57 and wife leave for South Bend after a year here as a Futbright professor. Prof. Ralph Mclnerny, wife and six bambini settle in for a sabbatical. RICHARD SMALL '51, president of Alinnni Holidays Co., is here to arrange for ND alumni "Escapade to Rome" tour. We have been happy to hdp host bis other school groups this sununer: Syracuse, Ohio Stat^ Michigan Sute, Peim State and Lawrence U. 
Vincent McAloon '34 
ST. LOUIS If you dosed your eyes, you were there on the bench listening to the "Rock" ddiver probably the most famous pep talk in history — "Win one for the Gipper." In town with a theatrical production, Pat O'Brien was the guest of honor at a well-attended ND dub luncheon in September, which leiuiited Pat with Jack Rockne, the son of ND's beloved former coach. Many's the eye that was gettin' a bit dewy as Pat treated us to a nostalgic excerpt from his portrayal of the "Rock" in the famous movie. 
Also at the head Ubie was JIM GODFREY '48, speaker of the Missouri House of Representatives, as well as JOE McGLYNN '55 and BOB McGLYNN '51, who were responsible for the very mem­orable event Other guests induded sports­writers Bob Bums and Bob Broeg and the noted St Louis sports figure Dukes Duford, who is also a dose peisonal friend of Pat's. 
Earlier in September, the golfers bad blue skies and lots of green grass at Glen Echo Cbuntry Club for our aimual golf outing. Our host JACK POWERS 'S3, used the advantage of his home course to tie our pereimial champ, GENE FEHLIG '43, for low gross honors at 71 and to take the trophy on a flip of the coin. Those of you who have bemoaned "what a few bad holes will do to your score" (It's time to paraphrase an old saying, but I wouldn't touch that one with a 10-foot IrishmaiL) will take heart in our now-dassic "cal­loway" computation which brought PAUL GUND '63 down from a debatably gross gross of 127 to take the low net honors at 68. 
Trophies were awarded that night during our freshmen-night dinner, which fea­tured JOE MULLIGAN from the ND admissions office. Joe gave us a pre­liminary scouting report on the fitting Irish and then paintel a picture of life on the campus today which was at least as enlightening to the alumni present as to the new frosh and their dads. Frank Vatterott 70, the student dub president after wdcoming the frosh explained how easy the dub was making it to escape from campus. 
Many thanks are due to RICH CONNORS '63 for a very successfid day and evening, and also to HERM KRIEGSHAUSER '54, who assisted in obtaining our speaker. 
Robert J. Hellrung '63 
SAN DIEGO The ND Club of San Diego hosted its fourth annual student send-off dinner at the Mission Valley hotel on Sept 4. A social hour at the "nMn oidy" event afforded the alunuii an opportiuiity to chat with the students and their fathers. 
Following dinner. Club President DON YECKEL presented a summary of the highlights of the June, 1969, Club Presi­dents' Conference at ND. The party was then thrown open for a discussion of topics of interest to students and alumni and remarks by students presently attending ND. 

Tony Maloney '43 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY 
During the month of August, Rev. George 
Minamiki SJ and a group of IS students, 
12 from ND and three from SMC, visited 
the Bay Area en route to Japan, where 
they will spend a year in study at a local 
Jesuit university. The Bay Area ND Club 
entertained the group at a breakfast in the 
Oasis Room of the St. Francis Hotel. It 
was the unanimous response of the members 
attending the breakfast that this group of 
students was eminently qualified to act as 
University representatives overseas. 
September rang in a new fiscal year for 
the dub, and the board of directors was hard 
at work planning its calendar of social 
events for the coming season. 
President BILL SHERMAN '49 acted as 
chairman for the club's first aimual golf 
tournament, which was scheduled for 
Sept. 26. 
For several years the club has sponsored monthly luncheons in San Francisco on the first Thursday of each month. JOHN SHEETS '64, the new chairman for the monthly luncheons, has initiated several revisions which took effect this month. The revisions include changing the luncheon from the first Thursday of each month to the first Friday of each month and moving the location of the luncheons to the St. Francis Hotel, where MIKE HARTNETT '62 helps to coordinate planning. All alumni and friends visiting the Bay Area are invited to attend. 
The board of directors lost one of its active members when GERRY DAHLE 'S8 moved to Fort Wayne, Ind., where he is associated with the insurance agency of Yaste & Zent. CHUCK VANONCINI '58 has consented to fill the vacancy on the board. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
SAN JOSE Our summer golf tournament, directed by JACK GRIFFEN '50 and held at the Oak Ridge Golf Club in San Jose, was won by PAUL NEWMAN '55. The second and third spots were claimed by GARY VONDRAN '59, and TORMEY WARD '60. 
Adobe Creek Lodge in Los Altos Hills was the scene of the club's annual sum­mer picnic, capably handled by LARRY O'CONNOR '56 and DOUG ZILLIOX '60. The picnic was highlighted by a delicious steak barbecue followed by the raffling-off of IS attractive prizes. 
MAURICE DeWALD '62 and TED SOBIERALSKI '54 represented the club at the aiuual Alumni Senate meeting held in May at ND. 
The day for our monthly club luncheon meeting has been changed to the second Tuesday of each month. The location remains the same — Marchetti's Restaurant in Sunnyvale. Attend if you can. 
Daniel Bencze '64 
TERRE HAUTE The ND club of Terre Haute sponsored its annual back-to-school diimer for area students returning to ND this falL The dinner was Sept 8. MYRON BUSBY JR. was in charge of the event and, as usual, produced an outstanding evening for dub members, wives and students. The dinner was hdd in the dining room of Foley Hall at St Mary-of-the-Woods College, located just west of Terre Haute. A cocktail hour was held at the lodge on campus. Area students returning to ND are Dave Sullivan, Fred Christman, Mike Eldred and Kevin McCarthy. 
The club has a new chaidain in Rev. EDMUND CAMPERS CSC '35, Fr. Campers is a native of Boston and has been stationed at parishes in South Bend, Watertown, Wis. and New Orleans. Rev. JOSEPH ROGUZ CSC, former chaplain, has been transferred to Holy TiiniQr parish in Chicago. 
Jim Boyer '49 
TULSA The ND Club of Tulsa had a grand turnout for its annual preseason football pep rally. The rally was at the Oaks Country Qub on the evening of Sept 10. 
Those who attended enjoyed a delidous roast beef dinner followed by President FARRIS SAFFA's introduction of the guest speaker, Hugh Fiimerty, a former presi-. dent of the Texas Baseball League and presently with Ada Oil Co. He is known as a most articidate after-diimer speaker, and he kept the ND club amused with his quips and jokes concerning the University and its football team. 
Following Finnerty's speech, the dub and its guests enjoyed watching the highli^ts movie of the 1968 ND football season. The final event of the evening was the announcement by BOBBY SIEGFRIED '37 that the SUMMA campaign for the Tulsa area had exceeded its goal by almost 100 per cent 
Ray H. Siegfried II '6S 
UTAH A {feasant surprise came when JIM KINNANE, West Coast regional director of the ND Foundation, informed us that he would be passing through Salt Lake City on his way home after spending a week on the campus. We hurriedly got a group together to have diimer with Jim at the Fort Douglas Country Club. The evening was very informative and it brought all of us a little bit closer to ND. Our only regret was that Jim found out how "dry" it is in our state. 
Aug. 10 was the summer get-together and send-off to the returning and new students. The gay event was hdd at the home of BILL ALLEN '57. On the agenda were beer, pop, hamburgers and salad. The highli^t of the evening was a movie of the ND '68 football season. 
We are i^anning a get-together Nov. 15 to root our team on against Georgia Tech. Details on the time and place will be announced soon. 
Ted Bares '59 
WALL STREET One of the most interesting and informative meetings of the assodation took i^ace at the Stock Exchange Luncheon Club on Sept 15, at 4 p.m. The guest speaker was Dr. William C. Fieuod, vice-pRsident and economist of the Neir Yoric Stock Exchange. Dr. Frennd was called to Washington to teptcsent the Firhiiigr at a board meetiiig of the Secniities and Exchange Onnraissioa oo the ISA. He gave them imtil 2 pjn. for Ids testimony, pointiiig out that he nmst arrive at the ND meetiiig before 4 pjn. We qiptedated the importanoe he gave to our Unveisily and our association. 
Dr. Freund is adjunct professor of finance at New York U., a director of the American Finance Assn. and a memiier of the govemor's Economic TdBey Oxmcil in the slate cS New Jeney. He lecehred his master's and PliJ>. degrees from Colun^ia U. Until December, 1967, be was chief economist and executiTe director of investment reseaidi, Ptndential Insurance Co. of America. He has written ex­tensivdy in his field of qiecialtTatinn, the forecasting of business conditions and the analysis of finandal markets. He is author of the book Imestment Fwidamailab. 
The presence of Dr. Freimd at our meeting provided a tare opportimity for us to as^imilatfi the economic thinking <tf the top-Ievd economists both in business and in govenmient, since his advice is in constant demand tqr those lAo coataA our nation's finandal future. As usual, the question-and-aiiswer period provided valu­able guidance for our members. 
Our next meeting win be held on Dec 16 at the Stock Exdiange Luncheon Club, 4:30 pim. As requested by sereral of our members, John Hartwdl will be die guest speaker. Haitwdl is known as one of the most astute pottfcdio managers of the financial community. His "track record" is outstanding, his reqwnsilrilities extend into the trillions and those of t s vdio have had the privilege of hearing him speak know that we always profit con­siderably from his knoiriedge and gen­erosity of information. JACK FLANAGAN and I would like to invite all ND alumni interested in finance and securities to attend the next meeting. 
Deon Sutton '31 
WESTERN WASHINGION Late summer was an active time for the club. Hie dub picmc at Lake Sammamish on Aug. 24 was fim for all in attendance. Men who partidpated with thdr families were: Picnic Chairman GAB TSAING, TOM MAY, JIM LYONS, MILLARD BATTLES, RAY DOOLEY, MIKE GAT­WELL, KURT HENEGAN, ROfi JOHN­SON and DICK NEIMER. 
A frosh send-off was hdd Aug. 27 at Tom and Kathy May's home on Mercer Island. Freshmen Mark Gaffiiey (Seattle Prep), Mike Totte (Odea), Paul Dziedzic (North Thurston), Patrick Andreotii (Ellensburg), Bob Campbell (EUendnirg) and their parents were presented insigbts on frosh life at ND by Chris CLeuy, sophomore, and other dub members. Hie event is proving to be a valuable one. In attendance were Tom May, Jim Lyons, JIM DAILEY, JERRY KANE, JEFF KOCH and their wives. 
Congratulatioiis go to Jim DaOey for being sdected senator to attend the legion-one Ahmmi Assn. meetiiig this fall and the Alumni Senate meeting at ND next May. 
BiU Heiber '58 
There is still an occasional partner in a law firm who says to the student he interviews for employment: "Notre Dame? I didn't know they had a law school." For some of its first hundred years, Notre Dame shared a sort of anonymity with many small university law schools. But that time is past That sort of remark about ND today reflects more on the hiring partner who makes it than it does on Notre Dame. It is like not knowing that there is an Internal Revenue Code. 
The last two decades have seen Notre Dame become a leader in each of two large categories in American legal education: the small national law schools and the Catholic national law schools. The future holds promise of new leadership in both categories— and beyond them. 
Notre Dame sends its young lawyers to the glamorous law firms in New York, Chicago and Washington. It supplies judicial clerks to courts all over the nation, from state trial courts in New York, New Jersey and Arizona to the Supreme Court of the United States. It has recent (and not-so-recent) graduates throughout public service—on the bench, in the legislature and at every level of national and local civil service. Idealistic ND men now staff legal-aid oflices on both coasts and in the mountains and Middle West. Many of these young lawyers for the poor work under the federally funded Reginald Heber Smith Fellowship Program. (In 1968 ND had more Smith Fellows, proportionately, than any other law school.) 
Notre Dame is no longer a Midwestern law school; more of its students come from New York than from any other state; many come from the Far West, New England, and the South; and some come from other countries. It is not becoming a middle-class, white, male law school, either; about a third of its entering class this year will be black, Mexican-American, poor or female. 
Notre Dame continues to educate its law students for the general practice, but the curriculum and the emphasis are shifting. A new elective course system promises opportunities to work in other disciplines, to study the law as it affects poor people, to explore in depth some of the develop­ing, modem comers of law practice— securities regulation, legal counseling, 

The liOw at Notre Dame 
advanced tax planning, social science, intemational transactions, legislative drafting, representation of minorities and the problems of the city. Notre 

by Thomas L. Shaffer, Associate Dean of the Law School 
Dame is the only law school in the nation that gives its students the opportunity to spend an entire year studying law abroad—^without loss of progress toward a law degree and without a significant increase in expense. 
Notre Dame is still a tough law school to enter. Virtually all of its students are college graduates; the great majority graduated in the top 10th of their college classes. It is still a demanding law school. But some of the nose-to-the-grindstone emphasis of recent years is declining, partly because tough entrance requirements make it less necessary than it was a decade ago to maintain an obstacle course for law students. 
The most recent evidence of this change is probably the faculty's decision, last year, to abolish ranking and to replace the traditional per­centage grading system with a new four-tiered system of academic marks (Honors, High Pass, Pass, Fail). Neither reform is as radical, however, as some critics of the changes feared. The new grading system affords a wide range for marking and is in line with similar changes in other law schools; ND will retain a minimum scholastic performance for retention of scholar­ships and expects to increase the number of honors degrees it gives its best performers. 
Class ranking will be replaced by evaluation beyond the grades. Employers who interview at Notre Dame will now be invited to consider the breadth of a student's record rather than the fact that he is or is not in the hallowed "top 10th." This change, in line with those at several other good law schools, emphasizes each student's work in a wide array of courses and in response to all kinds of academic challenges. The Notre Dame Lawyer—the school's excellent, student-controlled law review—^will continue to accept new members on the basis of scholastic performance, but a new writing competition was added last spring to attract student writers whose grades are not as high as the Lawyer's scholastic minimum. (The Harvard Law Review later announced a similar reform.) 
Notre Dame law graduates who are neither on the law review staff nor in the "top 10th" are entering coveted positions in big firms, judicial clerkships, honors government pro­grams and the Smith Fellowship Program. 
Last year's changes came in occasional harmony with the largest concentration of student power the Law School has seen in recent years. Students either sit on or advise faculty administrative committees. They prepare position papers on crucial questions facing the faculty. They control all student organizations and administer discipline in the Law School community. 
Much of this progressive involve­ment came about during the adminis­tration of James J. Barba '69L of Albany, N.Y., who was president of the Student Bar Assn. for an un­precedented two terms (1967-69). 
The faculty's principal challenge, as student power grows and enroll­ment increases, is to hold on to ND's traditional concern for individual students and to maintain the close personal contact which has been almost taken for granted in the last decade or two. Part of the answer will be a continuation of our favorable student-faculty ratio (about 1:20)— three new professors were added this summer—^but most of the challenge is more personal and less tangible than that. It is related to the kind of commitment that a generation of Notre Dame lawyers remember when they think of Dean Joseph O'Meara or professors like William D. RoUison, Edward F. Barrett, Roger Peters and John J. ("the Chief) Broderick. 
Rigor that was never a part of the "numbers game" of percentage grades and ranking is stronger than ever. Notre Dame's, first-year required curriculum is as stiff as any in the country—a solid year of contracts, torts, criminal law, real property and procedure,- all taught by veteran case-method teachers (Murphy, Thornton, Booker, Rice, Foschio). The Law School returns this year to required class attendance and will revive comprehensive examinations next spring. 
If anything is changing it is the standard of evaluation of law students —and this is a shift which is evident in all of the nation's first-rate law schools. The new theory is that students should be encouraged to develop potential in themselves rather than compete with each other. They are referred to the standards Chief Justice Burger mentioned in Dallas earlier this year—the problems of real clients and of real litigation, and the clinical atmosphere of the law office and of a society in crisis— more than to the purely academic standards of the make-it-or-break-it law examination. Legal education is moving toward more professional, more practical ideals; it is moving in this new direction at ND and in many other law schools. 
New idealism in legal education in the United States—social conscious­ness—is in evidence on and off the Notre Dame campus. Students now work in legal-aid clinics—for real clients—in Michigan and Indiana; both states have court rules permitting law-student practice. (The Michigan rule was amended to include non-Michigan students, and the Indiana rule was initiated as a result of efforts by Notre Dame's Legal Aid and Defender Assn.) 
Notre Dame law students draft real legislation; they try practice-court cases before real judges in real courtrooms. They enter into the social awareness of the University itself. For instance, ND's extensive efforts to recruit black students are the result of a student movement which began in 1968. The -Univer­sity's stiff protection against racially segregated off-campus housing is the result of law-student pressure. 
Social awareness will include more person-to-person contact, too. "We must," Dean Lawless says, "support a substantial number of students drawn fo>m minority groups, from hemes where there is no possible means to provide a law school education." This is a law school that already has the most intensive scholar­ship program in the nation—about two and a half times per capita the schcdarship aid offered, for instance, at Harvard. 
The Law School is reaching out internationally, too. This year the second group of Notre Dame law students have taken up residence (with two ND faculty members, KeUenberg and Keeton) at University College, University of London—there to study law at the birthplace of the American legal tradition, with a law faculty that is second to none in the world in its expertise in the law of developing naticMis. This year's Notre Dame "English" students heartily endorsed the LcMidon experience and it even produced an "electric" response among English students. "Their students now want to come to the United States," Dean Lawless reports. A special scholarship was established, in Professor Keeton's honor, for English students in 1968; a young English lady will be coming to ND this fall to study American law for a year. Japanese, Dutch, Korean and Pakistani students are expected to join her. 
Dean Lawless looks beyond England for Notre Dame students. "We're opening negotiations with various South American law schools," he says, "and we are exploring the possibility of sending students to Japan." Much of the growing student interest in such programs is directly related to law practice. "The practi­tioner of the future must understand in a general way, at least, legal systems other than his own," Dean Lawless says. "Twenty years from 
Innovator Lawless. 
now, commercial legal transactions 

with persons abroad will be oommon­
place." 

The future holds more inter­disciplinary study for ND law stu­dents, too—and for the same practical reasons. 'To study criminal law without relating it to socitrfogy, pencdogy and crimincdogy is in­adequate for our times. To study municipal law without relating it to the problems of our cities, die problems of minority groups and the problems of our poor is unreal in 20th-century America. And to study law at all without some deep understanding of the moral basis for all law is both a futile and hopeless exercise." 
More students are interested in government service than ever before­—^partly because government provides a clear way to use one's profession in public service and partly because growing complexity in all levels (rf government affords new challenges for the Notre Dame lawyer's sharpened legal talent Th e wMt concept of American law is changing," Dean Lawless says. "Until WW II, a lawyer's function was generally to represent the pit^rtied classes. Now the emphasis is shifting to human rights." 
Notre Dame's response includes Professor Rice's required course in public law (legislation and admin­istrative agencies) and a new orienta­
ND's proposed Law Center. 
;.s##^ 
tion in the second year toward what Dean Lawless calls "social impact" Beyond curriculum, ND continues to be involved in research on the administration of criminal justice, procedural refcmn, modernized state legislation, legal history, law and behavioral science, government regula­tion of business and jurisprudence. 
Programs for social action and for increased technical competence will entail an increase in ennrilment and in faculty. As a result of intense recruiting last year, applications nearly doubled (to about 900 for an entering class of about ISO). Entering classes are expected to accelerate at 60 students a year and faculty to increase by three a year. Enrollment will level off in abcxit five years at SSO-600 students with a full-time faculty of about 2S. 
Expansion of the Notre Dame Law School—in both numbers and in the quality and variety of what law students find here—requires new quarters for the Law School and its people. Notre Dame's new law-expansion program, with a financial goal of $6 million, is already moving toward that new physical plant— "a new Law Center," Dean Lawless calls it, "with a library of 160,000 volumes and an elite student body selected nationally and internationally for intelligence, promise and commit­ment to justice." 
It will remain to those who teach and study here, and to the thousands in the profession who support and encourage the Notre Dame Law School, to keep human vitality and human hope in legal education at ND, to make of the Notre Dame lawyer a man who hungers and thirsts after justice. That is the challenge of our first century, the priceless and intangible quality that ambition and bricks and mortar can neither supply nor contain. 

ALUMNI ASK 
PRACTICING NONVIOLENCE May I make a suggestion for a future issue of your magazine(s)? In recent weeks ND has gotten extensive public relations mileage out of the new Program for the Study and Practice of the Nonviolent Resolution of Human Conflict. I recall, for example, reading in a Chicago newspaper that students were "struggling" to obtain the prized enrollment certificates. And now, according to INSIGHT, four sections have begun full operation. 
Very interesting. But all this publicity gives the impression that ND students and graduates are at present unfamiliar with the theory and practice of nonviolence. If, however, you turn to a recent issue of the New York Review of Books (Sept. 25, 1969) you will find an article entitled "The Ultra-Resistance." This article, by Francine Grey, focuses on the activities of the Catholic antidraft movement— specifically, on the deeds and trial of the so-called Milwaukee 14. It turns out that the leader of the Milwaukee Fourteen is an ND alumnus, Ph.D. '55, and I quote: "Christian Brother Basil O'Leary, head of the economics department of St. Mary's College, in Minnesota, 
B.A. in economics from Loyola, M.A. in economics from the U. of Chicago, Ph.D. in economics from Notre Dame." (p. 13) In their trial, the defendents chose to handle their own defense, and it was he who did the interrogation of witnesses. He is now serving a prison sentence for his participation in an "organized, controlled nonviolent act of civil disobedience." 
If I were a conservative alumnus or, more amusing, a Gulf Oil executive, I might ask: Is this what ND is going to be teaching? And with our money? But all I want to ask is that the ALUMNUS give some attention to the activities of this particular alumnus and his cause. Surely be is as worthy of "congrats" or, at any rate, notice as is a new vice-president of some bank or a newly minted colcmel or some oft-promoted CSC careerist For here, if anywhere, is a "typical ND man" —traditional, a conservative economist, a strong believer in market economy, a waiter on natural law fbr arcane theological journals, a contributor to Commonweal and an associate editor of Continuum .. . and a believer in nonviolence. Pax! 
Howard J. Dooley '66 
725V4 W. Colfax Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46601 
FUMBLE 
I enjoyed your article "80 years of thunder" in the most recent issue of the ALUMNUS. You have probably received a number of conmients con­cerning this, but I thought I would add mine and point out what appears to be a mistake under the year 1947. As I recall, ND resumed its rivalry with Army in 1957 here in Phila­delphia. The game was won by Notre Dame on a field goal by Monty Stickles in the last two minutes of the game. 
I have been pleased with the direc­tion that the magazine has taken, and I commend you and your efforts. It has become worthy of every alum­nus and entirely readable and en­lightening from cover to cover. Keep up the good work. 
Patrick W. Kittredge '58 
1500 Seven Penn Central Plaza 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103 
FATHER TOM McAVOY 
Since my graduation in 1957, I have read the ALUMNUS and other ND publications with interest and some satisfaction. I regret, however, to inform you that your July-August issue caused me considerable distress. Perhaps many of your readers would not agree, but there are some of us who, though very appreciative of recent achievements, are not yet totally unconcerned with the Univer­sity's worthy past. 
Your last issue devoted ample space to a number of compelling items—a new "sports and games collection," SUMMA, of course, "A Roman adventure ND style," "mini­athletes," and many large photos of overweight alumni. It was one small photo, however, which caught my eye. 
There on page 47! Rev. Thomas 
y tJ^^dS 
-:^^ < £ -^Cr 
{•" 

McAvoy had died. To thn feade 
but deteirmined man who wemi hi* 
congregation and oar Um»cnity 
since 192S, you dewMed ancn and 
one^iaif lines. How feaaooi, wint 
appredatioa oi adfleas and.derated 
service, what cnK^Hoied balaaee 
of past and piaeat: 
As a hisloiy pnniior. - tiuned hf Fr. McAvoy and oQnetfine edu­cators of tbti dqjartmeat te aUy led, I do not Min e ttat a univeiii^ can truly beoome great uofeM it wisely values Oe woctt at its i a religious and academic patf as well as an attiletic one—wliile simultaneously seddng new horiaoos of achievement Your last number left a good deal to be desired in this respect 
Enougji complaining. Most prob­ably Fr. McAvoy would dude me strongly for saying even dns. Feimit me to tttuk you for your attention and please accqfit my best wishes for success in your every endeavOT. 
J. David Valaik'57 Associate Professor of History Canisius CoO ^ 
Buffato. N.Y. 
IJ^IMES' MAN 
I read with interest die letter firom 
my friend John F. Mardial "58 (July-August ALUMNUS) and die rqily 
from Leo C. Heringer "24 (S^tem­
ber ALUMNUS). I Imow John Marehal very well and also know of his devotion to our sdiool, but I 
think John is wrong because I know of nothing in the rnl and valuable 
traditions of our schoid iriiich b so weak that the mere presence oi a few young ladies on campus for the purpose of their education can de­stroy these traditions. There is mudi about ND, as I knew it in the middle and late '50s, wliidi would have been impoved by the presence trf youqg ladies. Since most of us ^eod the balance of our lives after Notre Dame in a dose union widi a woman, it would seem hi^Uy ^propiiate that our cdlege education take place in their company. 
WilUam O. Bailey Jr. '56 
ISS (Ndbury Dr. Wifanington, Dd. 19808 •§m: 
aaM|f||..., -.-.,-;. •.-.• . . •-~ • . -W •••••-•••' •• •• :.- -->^'^~^-'%:Vi-M.;^-.>J 
Mm 
til 

^^»3^i5j 
mm^ 
^». 
. /

•S>J^»; ".*-'_i 
pi \ 
^^' i ^}' 
yK Vlv 'itii]-, •'. 

|^^*^f-" ^^ u r'*• 
•»aj#'~ ^^H y?^ 
1 
IB 1
^^^'-^^ 
h^;-: 
viii 

mm 
The Chief stiU rides! 
CLASS OF 1971 LAW, HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 001 
WHEREAS: The spirit of the Notre Dame football team and the spirit of the Notre Dame Law School has been greatly increased through the efforts of Professor John "CHIEF" Broderick. 
WHEREAS: Through his energetic efforts in the classroom and on the field. Professor John "CHIEF" Broderick has been an inspira­tion to all Notre Dame Law Students. 
BE IT RESOLVED: That the Class of 1971 extends its appreciation and support to the "CHIEF" for the greatest rallies at Notre Dame. 
Unanimously Accepted October 15, 1969 




