The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THfeNOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Picpul Rams the Navy 
IN THIS ISSUE: 
Leading Scientists Meet on Campus 
(Pase 75) 


Chicago Club Steps Ahead in Placement 
(Pase 77) 

r 
Vol. 18 DECEMBER, 1939 No. 3 
•IlllllllllllHlltlll •llllllllllllll •iiiiQ 

MOST REV. JOHN F. O'HARA, C. S. C. '11 
Spotlight alumnus of the month, as he might have been almost any time in recent years, is Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, since 1934 the president of the University of Notre Dame, now the Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, Titular Bishop of Milasa, auxiliary to the Most Rev. Francis J. Spellman, D.D., LL.D., '35, Archbishop of New York, and head of the Catholic religious welfare organization of the United States armed forces, by act of His Holiness, Pope Pius XII, Litt.D., '3G, on December 11, 1939. 
The Alumni Association does not share the sense of loss which has come to the University. Because the stamp of a Notre Dame man remains wherever the man may be. And in New York, the outstanding identity of Father O'Hara as a Notre Dame man, whose work and whose ex­ample have in turn stamped many another Notre Dame man, will continue in his new episcopal work ujidiminished in alumni significance, adding in fact new lustre to the rising tide of the achievements of Notre Dame men. 
tiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 



The Notre Dame Alumnus 
This magazine is published monthly from October to June, inclusive (except January), by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. Entered as second class matter October 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Member of the American Alumni Council and of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, "25, Editor; WILUAM R. DOOLEY, "26, Managing Editor 
Vol. 18. DECEMBER. 1939 No. 3 
Famed Bacteriologists Meet at Notre Dame 
Micrurgical Colloquium Is Held; Professor Rey­
niers Discusses Isolation Cubicles Designed By 
Him and Now In Use In Noted Evanston Cradle 
Man's newest field of exploration—the senal of implements now at their com­minute invisible highly populated world mand. of one-cell "creatures," sometimes so 
An array of such "armament" was de­
small that their size is no greater than 
scribed and demonstrated. Fifty-tivo of 
one fifty-thousandth of an inch in diam­
the latest improved instruments, whose 
eter—occupied the minds of 40 scientists 
value totals $30,000, were on display. 
gathered at the University biological 
They ranged all the way from glass 
laboratories, on November 17 and 18. 
needles with points so minute they can 
be seen only beneath a microscope, to a 
While astronomers have been perfect­model of a cubicle designed to protect ing huge telescopes to pierce the heavens babies from nursery epidemics. in an effort to explore the universe, bac­teriologists have developed delicate tools Formal papers on these micrurgical 
•withwhich to wage their war against an instruments were presented at sessions invisible and formidable enemy of man by Dr, JI. J. Kopac and Dr. Robert —disease - producing bacteria. Appro­Chambers, of New York University, Dr. priately, befoi'e discussing advances Earl JI. Hildebrand, of Cornell Univer­achieved and objectives yet to be at­sity, Ithaca, N. Y., and Profs. James A. tained, the bacteriologists opened their Reyniers, '30, and Philip Tre.xler, '34, of 
session with a consideration of the ar­the University of Notre Dame. 
Earnestly studying micrurgical equipment arc, left to right. Dr. A. J. Rikcr, University of Wisconsin; Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., dean. College of Science, Notre Dame; Dr. Casper Nelson, head. Bacteriological Department. North Dakota State College; Dr. Earl >L Hildebrand, Cornell University; Dr. M. J. Kopac, New York University: Dr. Rudolph Glaser, Rockefeller Institute, Princeton, New Jersey. 
A model of the Reynicis isolation cubicle, de­signed by Notre Dame's Professor Reyniers to prevent cross-infection among babies. Twelve cubicles of this kind are in use at the Cradle In Evanston, Illinois. 
On Friday, hope for banishment of one type of unwanted alien without Congi'essional intervention was extended by Dr. Rudolph Glaser of the Rockefel­ler Institute of Medical Research. Dr. Glaser who has been conducting a re­search war against "Popillia japonica," the destructive Japanese beetle, for 10 years, told fellow scientists how he dis­covered a species of roundworm which does an effective job of "liquidating" the beetle, destroyer annually of millions of dollars worth of American farm prod­ucts. 
Friday speakers were Dr. Oram Wool-pert and N. Paul Hudson of Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio; Dr. Philip 
R. White, also of the Rockefeller Insti­
Examininf; some of the micnirKical equipment at the Notre Dame conference arc, left to ticht. Dr. SL \V. Jennison. Department of Bioloffy and Public Health. RLI.T.; Dr. Casper Nelson, head. Bac­tcrioloo' Department. North Dakota State COIICKC; Laurence Horswcll. New York City; Robert Nelson, 
graduate student in liacteriolosy at Kotre Dame, son 
tute. Dr. William F. Wells, of the Uni­versity of Pennsylvania, Dr. Iwan Eos­enstern of Evanston, 111., and Professor Reyniers, head of the bacteriological laboratories, Notre Dame. 
Discovering that the roundworm was a beetle killer. Dr. Glaser studied ways and means of reproducing it in sufficient quantities to make it an effective mass exterminator. The savant can now prop­agate the roundworm from sterile cul­tures in wholesale quantities of from 10 to 20 million at a time. 
By means of a spray these tiny worms are applied to fields wherein the Japa­nese beetle plies its parasitical profes­sion. TKe State of New Jersey, where beetles abound, and the Federal Govern­ment are aiding in the work, and soon, it is expected, the Japanese beetle popu­lation in this country ^\-ill disappear. 
From beetles the scientists jumped to babies. Professor Reyniers, in discussing the use of mechanical barriers in pre­venting cross infection among hospital­ized infant populations, described the system of isolation cubicles he has de­signed to protect babies from all air­borne bacteria and contact infection. 
In designing these cubicles, now in use at the famed Evanston (111.) Cradle, Professor Reyniers said he has combined an air - conditioning system which em­ploys a triple graduated air pressure, with the mechanical construction of the cubicles which results in a flow of air always away from the baby. Such air­borne bacteria as those causing colds, in­fluenza and pneumonia are effectively shot out from the baby's crib, greatly reducing the danger of destructive epi­
 of Dr. Nelson. 
demics, a dreaded menace of nursery wards. 
Dr. AVilliam F. Wells, of the Phipps Institute, University of Pennsylvania, talked on air borne infection and the use of ultraviolet barriers. He, too, has de­signed a system to protect babies and other hospitalized populations against infection and contagion. Instead of a cubicle Dr. Wells throws barriers of ultraviolet rays across openings, pre­venting passage of germs from patient to patient. His system is also in use at the Evanston Cradle. 
Concluding the conference. Dr. Iwan Rosenstem, clinical director of The Cradle, reported on the results of the t\vo systems he has had under his observation. 
Friday night Dr. J. J. JIcDonald of the Northwestern Medical School, Chi­cago, presented a colored motion picture, illustrating the Cradle technique for preventing cross infection. 
The Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C., '11, dean of the College of Science at Notre Dame, was general chairman of the colloquium. Dr. A. J. Riker of the University of Wisconsin presided over the Thursday sessions and Dr. Thomas McGrath presided on Fri­day. The Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, president of Notre Dame, welcomed the scientists in a short talk in which he stressed the importance of specializa­tion in science and the necessity of fel­low scientists meeting together from time to time to discuss science's advance towards the idea of developing the "whole man." 

'Old-T imers See U.S-C. Game 
Jesse Harper Returns 
For 1916-17 Reunion 
The Monogram Men of 1916 and 1917 comprised the youthful - looking "Old-Timers" of the Southern California week-end reunion. 
Led by their coach Jesse Harper, who looked as young as his former players,­the following men participated in the busy two-day sessions: 
William Andres, Pittsburgh, Pa.; Chick Bader, Gary; Harry Baujan, Day­ton; Jim Boland, South Bend; Stan Co-fall, Cleveland; Frank Coughlin, South Bend; Dick Daley, Erie; Si Degree, De­troit; Leo Dubois, Cincinnati; D. Chet Grant, Notre Dame; Cy Kasper, Aber­deen, So. Dak.; Jake Kline, Notre Dame; Grover Malone, South Bend; Joe Mc-Ginnis, Chicago; Bob McGuire, Chicago; Eddie Meehan, South Bend; John Miller, Fall River, Mass.; Walter Miller, Defi­ance, 0.; Dillon Patterson, South Bend; ] Dudley Pearson, Milwaukee; John Pow­ers, Willoughby, 0.; Ted Rademaker, Peru, Ind.; Frank Rydzewski, Chicago; 

i; 
Fritz Slackford, Cleveland; Butch Whip­ple, Springfield, 111.; and Clyde Zoia, Woodstock, 111. If any one was missed it was through failure to register in the special Old-Timers Book in the Alumni Office, and we're sorry. 
Friday night, the dinner in the Dining Halls launched the program. Elmer Lay-den brought Don Ameche in as a special guest, and it was difficult to get the crowd (Rydzewski and Coughlin haven't shrimk any) started over to the great­est pep meeting of the season in the familiar Gymnasium. Later the same night, the reunited brethren were guests at the Notre Dame Club of the St. Jos­eph Valley at the smoker in the also familiar Oliver Hotel, where many an older alumnus used the bulky guest table group in pointing out to young alumni how Notre Dame'grew them back when. 
Saturday afternoon, the group were sideline guests of the Athletic Associa­tion and saw Notre Dame's greatest game of the year, unhappily a losing one to the Bowl-bound Trojans. But the game, like the week-end, was filled with the one imchanging Notre Dame quality —Notre Dame spirit. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Chicago Club Steps Ahead In Placement 
Ed O'Toole Directs Program Which Has Recorded Sub­stantial Accomplishments; O'Toole Also To Supervise National Placement Program for Alumni Association. 
You read in the November ALUMNUS about the magnificent accomplishments of the New York Club and the New Jersey Club in assisting Notre Dame men in their search for employment. 
Now we swing to the Middle West to take a look at what is sometimes called the Windy City. Instead of wind, how­ever, the Notre Dame Club of Chicago is using hard and solidly intelligent work in its placement activities. And, in consequence, it is getting sound results. Under the chairmanship of Edward F. O'Toole, '25, chairman of the club's Placement Bureau, an inspiring record in employment has been marked up since last April. 
In addition to supervising, at a gen­erous sacrifice of time and effort, the employment program of the Chicago Club, Ed O'Toole, as a director of the Alumni Association, has just imdertaken at the request of President Hilgartner, 
PLACEMENT CHAIRMEN 
BUFFALO—Lionel V. 0. Smith, '33, Halsey, Stuart & Co., Liberty Bank Bldg. 
CHICAGO—Edward F. O'Toole, '25, 10 S. LaSalle St. 
CLEVELAND — Clayton G. Leroux, '27, Leader Bldg. 
GR. LOUISVILLE—Joseph F. Don­aldson, '23, Sales Manager, Ad­ler Manufacturing Co. 
NEW JERSEY—Harvey P. Rockwell, '34, 1202 Esse-x House, Newark. 
NE\V YORK—John T. Balfe, '20, 60 East 42nd St. 
ROCHESTER-John G. Dorschel, '31, Associates Discount Corp. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY — George L. O'Brien, '91, O'Brien Varnish Co., South Bend, Ind. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA—John P. McMahon, '28, Air Hygiene Foundation, Mello n Institute, Pittsburgh. 

advisory supervision of the placement set-up for the whole association. This is in conformity with the wish of the asso­ciation directors that the present year should see a special emphasis laid upon the need for placement. As months pass, club officers everyivhere will hear more from Ed on this subject. 
Right now we have Ed's report (writ­ten on December 2) on what the Chi­cago Club has done in placement since April 1. We give it to you: 
"I was appointed chairman of the Placement Bureau of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago on April 1 of this year. During previous years some other members of the club had handled this imemployment question and they were successful in placing many fellows who were unemployed. From talking with a number of previous chairmen, I found their greatest difficulty was in getting publicity within the club. 
"We started out on April 1 under a plan whereby those seeking employment would register their names with the Placement Bureau. Those members of the club who learned of an opening were to let the Placement Bureau know and the applicants would then be put in touch with the prospective employers. We carried along on that basis for sev­eral weeks. 
"We decided to send some letters to a number of companies to see what the results would be. Sixty-five letters were sent and several replies were received. Some companies asked us to send one or more men over to fill out applications and others stated that, while they had no openings at that time, they were keeping our letter on file for future reference. 
"For a long time we had only a few men on our list. Suddenly, the number increased and we then prepared a form of application for employment. This application contains among other things, the name, address, phone number, date of birth, height, weight, marital status, year graduated, degree, general class average, kind of position and salary de­sired, and occupational experience. A space is provided for a picture of each applicant. All of the boys who were on our list were asked to fill out the new form of application and all boys who thereafter registered also filled out an application. 
"Through the medium of the club's monthly bulletins, we kept urging the members of the Notre Dame Club of 
EDWARD F . O'TOOLE, '25 

Chicago who were unemployed or who were interested in getting better jobs to come in and fill out applications. We also kept urging those who were un­employed to be on the lookout for jobs because we believed that if the members of our club could be convinced that our Placement Bureau was really trying to accomplish something they would get behind it and cooperate. We were cor­rect in that assumption, because within 10 days after the November bulletin was sent out, the Bureau received six calls from members of the club giving us leads on eight jobs. 
"To explain our procedure, we might say that when one of the calls was re­ceived, we sent a representative out to see the prospective employer. He took with him all of the applications we have on file and showed them to the employ­ment manager, w^ho selected from that 
(Continued on Page 91) 

UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS . . 
NEW TRUSTEES Addition of two important figures in the worlds of finance and economics to membership on the University of Notre Dame board of lay trustees furnished the highlight of the semi-annual meet­ing held here on November 17. 
The new members, announced by By­ron V. Kanaley of Chicago, president of the University's board of financial advisers, are Constantine E. McGuire of Washington and Nicaragua, and Ernest 
M. Morris, '06, of South Bend. 

Mr. McGuire, a graduate of Harvard University, has for many years been recognized as an authority on current economic problems and has written ex­tensively concerning inter - American business relations. He is a director of the Nicaragua National Bank and of the Nicaragua National Railways; is a past president of the Catholic Historical Association and a papal knight of the Order of St. Gregory. His home is in the Cosmos Club in Washington, D. C. 
Mr. Morris, graduated in Law at Notre Dame in 1906, subsequently taught school, and then practiced law. In 1918 he established the Associates Investment Company which is now, with subsidiaries, the largest independent au­tomobile finance and insurance company in the United States. He is chairman of the board of the First Bank and Trust Company of South Bend and rec­ognized for pioneer work toward im­provement of municipal governments. 
TOP ENROLLMENT 

For the second consecutive year en­rollment at the University tops the pre­vious peak established in the schoolyear 1931-S2. This year's final figures, re­leased by Eev. J. L. Carrico, C.S.C, di­rector of studies, show the total enroll­ment to be 3,279 students, an increase of 107 over the 1931-32 record. It e.^­ceeds last year's figure by 83. 
Limited since 1930 to the number of students capable of being accommodated by campus residence facilities, this year's increase was made possible by the erection of Breen-Phillips hall, new­est of Notre Dame's 15 residence halls. 
The District of Columbia and all of the 48 states are represented in the enrollment, as are Alaska, Hawaii, and the Panama Canal Zone. The foreign student population comes from Canada, Cuba, Puerto Eico, China, Philippine Islands, Mexico, Chile, Argentina, Col­ombia, Greece and Peru. 
With 511 students registered. New York leads all other geographical units, followed by Hlinois' 460, Indiana's 444, Ohio's 279, Michigan's 230 and Pennsyl­vania's 215. Other states have enroll­ments ranging from 200 down to one. 
Within the University, the College of Commerce leads with 1,158 enrolled. Next is the College of Arts and Letters with 1,062 students. In the College of Engineering there are 522, in the Col­lege of Science, 293, and in the College of Law, 100 students. 
While predominantly Catholic, por­tions of the student body profess to 15 other religions. In addition to the 3,099 who are Catholics, 47 are Protestants (no denomination expressed); 23 are Episcopalians; 20 are Presbyterians; 16 are Methodists; 13 are Lutherans; 11 are Jewish; seven are Baptists; six are Greek Orthodox; five are Evangelical; five are Christian Scientists; four are Christians; two are First Christians; one is an Apostolic Christian; one is a Brethren and one an .A.postolic. A total of 18 claim to have no religion at all. 
PROPORTIONAL REPRESENTATION 
Dr. F. A. Hermens, assistant profes­sor of politics, debated the question of proportional representation with Walter 
J. MiUard, Cincinnati, secretary of the National Municipal League, at the League's 45th annual conference on gov­ernment in Indianapolis in November. Professor Hermens said that the pro­portional representation plan has failed except in cities that operate under the city manager plan, such as Cincinnati, Toledo and Hamilton, Ohio. He added that the plan had been a failure in Cleve­land, New York and Ashtabula, Ohio. 
REQUIRED PROFIT 
A required profit for all corporations would prevent increasing unemployment through business failures, M. E. Coyle, general manager of the Chevrolet Motor Company, told Commerce students in an address in Washington Hall on Novem­ber 2. 
Mr. Coyle presented a matter-of-fact view of the present and future economic developments. 
"For the good of the nation and as a guarantee of the permanency of the in­stitution and its continued contribution to employment and to the nation's wealth, every corporation should be re­quired to make a profit," he said. "Any institution that sells goods below cost is merely distributing a portion of its cap­ital with each sale, and if this practice is continued over a sufficient period of time the capital vnU be gone, the busi­ness will close and all employes will join the present group of unemployed. 

"There has been much misunderstand­ing regarding corporations, their size, their policies. A corporation is only an association of many people in a joint enterprise which requires the investment of a capital amount in excess of the abil­ity or willingness of a single individual. Other than this one factor, it is exactly the same and operated the same as a private venture. Their policies are usu­ally more liberal than a privately owned business because the corporation is free from individual selfishness, which is not always true in the other case." 
LOCAL LECTURERS 
Recent Washington Hall lecturers in­cluded Dr. Oliver St. John Gogarty, noted Irish ^vriter, who spoke on "Ire­land's Role in the Present Crisis," and Maurice Lavanoux, one of the founders of the Liturgical Arts Society and one of the foremost authorities on liturgical appurtenances. Mr. Lavanoux in two lectures discussed stained glass and "The Practical Aspects of the Liturgical Revival." 
DUBOIS HONORED 
Professor Benjamin G. Dubois, who teaches French at the University re­ceived on November 8 from Rene Weil­ler, consul general of France at Chicago, a medal and certificate of Officier d'Ac­ademie from the government of France. The honorary title was conferred upon Professor Dubois for distinguished ser­vice on behalf of French culture and education. The presentation took place at the University. 
Professor Dubois has been a teacher of French since 1910. From 1920 to 1924 he served as head of the French depart­ment of South Bend Central High school and has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1924. He also was a founder of the Alliance Francaise in South Bend and served as president of the society from 1937 to 1939. 
Alumni Board Advances Association Prosram 
Meeting November 26 Enlists Personal Services of Officers and Directors to Share Increased Responsibili­ties of Numbers and Projects Under Present Regime 
President Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., called a meeting of the Board of Direc­tors of the Alumni Association on Sun­day, Nov. 26. Some of the fight-against­odds of the football team against South-em California was reflected in the Sun­day session of the Board, 
Lack of financial support has ham­pered the progress of the Association, but the Alumni Office, with the aid of the University, has kept its basic pro­gram intact and has introduced such projects as seem necessary to a sound program, to the extent that resources permit. 
The Board reviewed these projects, affirmed them as proper phases of the Association work, and endorsed sugges­tions for their further development. 
President Hilgartner, speaking of the major decisions of the Board, said: 
"Our financial set-up is comparatively easy to achieve, if we have the under­standing and cooperation of the major­ity of our members. We must acquaint the membership at large with the full program of the Association, most of which appears only in part to the indi­vidual member. 
"To facilitate a more general under­standing of the financial needs of the Association and to aid the Alumni Office in its work of collection, I am asking Henry Wurzer, '25, vice-president, to make this part of the Association pro-gi-am his special field of study and co­operation. 
"Similarly, the Alumni Office is en­gaged in a study of the program for the Local Alumni Clubs. To aid in this large and vital phase of our activity, I have asked the special study and cooperation of Keene Fitzpatrick, '13. In addition to being a vice-president of the Associa­tion, Mr. Fitzpatrick brings to this study a knowledge of a section of the Clubs operating under the handicaps of dis­tance, and also travels enough to contact many of the more central Clubs. 
"Placement, one of the newer but most promising projects of the Association, I have made the special field for Edward 
F. O'Toole, '25, a Director of the Asso­ciation. Mr. O'Toole is heading the active program of placement in the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, and is close enough to be in constant contact with William R. Dooley, '26, who has charge of placement activity in the Alumni Office. 

"Similarly, I shall enlist the services of the other Directors in the above fields whenever it seems desirable to supple­ment work being done, and shall ask them to cooperate in other phases of our work such as promotion. Universal Notre Dame Night, Class organization. Commencement activities, the ALUMNUS, etc. 
"I was impressed by two major results of our November meeting. 
"First was the scope of the program now being conducted by the Alumni Association. We have long since passed the.stage of alumni activity largely de­voted to social meetings, centering around the still popular and important alumni banquet at Commencement. The Alumni Office is engaged in a program which contains innumerable details, many of which defy classification and are frequently imique. But in its fundamen­tal activities,—those things which can be listed as annual, and which require months of preparation—there are some half dozen big classifications, in which there is little overlapping. 
"Records offer the basis of all success­ful alumni work. The ALUMNUS is the only contact between Notre Dame and all our alunmi. Promotion among pros­pective students has been placed in the 
Universal 
Notre Dame 
Night 
will be on 
APRIL 15 
Start the ball rollins now 

hands of the Association, with a result­ing cooperation that has temporarily re­stored a capacity student enrollment. Placement is, as suggested above, new but an increasingly vital project. De­velopment of the 90 Local Alumni Clubs requires more and more attention, as the initiative of these groups manifests it­self in a most encouraging manner. And the Classes, as reflected in the Class columns of the ALUMNUS, and in the growing reunion programs of Commence­ment, are sources of much organization work. 
"The above major divisions leave many other projects which are annual, but which require much planning. Among these are Universal Notre Dame Night, Commencement, at least one national convention each year in the professional field, cooperation with many Club func­tions such as the St. Joseph Valley foot­ball banquet, the New York Club's Uni­versal Communion plan and its pre-Army Game rally, collection of alumni contribu­tions, various Retreats, and other less publicized and less regular features. 
"My second major impression from the Board meeting was the,fine spirit of the Board of Directors in volunteering their cooperation to aid in the solution of the above problems. I feel confident that if the membership at large understands the problems, as they were presented to the Board, we shall find a similar response. 
"The work of an administration is con­fined ^vithin a brief period of time, half of which is already gone. I hope that we can attribute to this year the beginning of a more general participation by offi­cers and members in the affairs of the Association. K we achieve that, I am sure that ensuing years will mark a more rapid growth of all of the fine things which our Association is now doing in spite of handicaps of both time and money." 
Present at the meeting of the Board were President Hilgartner, '17; vice-pres­ident Hem? Wurzer, '25; Directors: Joseph M. Byrne, '15, Francis McKeev­er, '03, Edward O'Toole, '25, and John Higgins, '22; James E. Armstrong, '25, and William E. Dooley, '26, of the Alum­ni Office. 
STUDENT NOTES 
(This month's conductor, "Tex" Bar­reda, hails from Laredo down there on the border, but his official residence is Tiow in South Bend. One of Dr. Cooney's star senior journalists, "Tex" has been all through his Notre Dame career a "Scholastic" man of high renown and ex­traordinary ability and a leading mem­ber of the Wranglers. His contributions to the South Bend "Tribune" have this fall brought him even more into the journalistic spotlight.) 
PIGSKIN SATURDAYS 
Football and the "U.N.D.'s for the team" are gone, but the memory lingers on. Quite a propos, a campus literary genius penned an inspiring, rather in­flating, fare - thee - well to the gridiron parade which he cryptically captioned, "Vale, football!" English major tommy-rot. No doubt the bourgeoisie in our midst were startled by his strategic and deft use of Latin. 
Subway alumni cheered at the Notre Dame band marching before the clus­tered tiers in Yankee Stadium as Army crumbled under the charging Irish cleats. Cheerleader Jerry Flynn, Roch­ester, New York, bucked the Cadets' mule and smiled to the flashes of the photographers' bulbs. Opportunists in every way, the Met Club chartered a special train to carry a host of Notre Dame men to the New York classic. 
Defeated at Iowa City by the Eddie Anderson machine, the Irish team came back to receive a tremendous ovation from the student body massed in the gym for the Northwestern pep rally. Notre Dame was behind the team to a man. Fireworks in Brownson field were the gift of the Student Activities Coun­cil, or rather, in official parlance, the gift of the University.... Dillon hall won first prize in hall decoration, barely nosing out the Irish washerwoman dis­play conceived by the magnetic brains of the gentlemen from Walsh. Dillonites borrowed a few scraps of patriotic bunt­ing from the Armistice Day displays in town, added local color in the North­western and Notre Dame vein, and took whatever bacon the judges (Messrs. O'Malley and Madden of the beloved faculty) had on hand Between the halves of the football game, Joe Casa­santa's boys serenaded the Wildcat con­tingency with a soothing rendition of "Deep Purple." 
By F. G. BARREDA, '40 

The Southern Cal rally reminded Old-Timers of the memorable one in 1937 on the eve of the Pitt game. Emotions and spirit were keyed up to the highest pitch. Surprise package on the speakers' rostrum was Don Ameche. Down from the mob below he and Elmer Layden were greeted by the Joe E. Brownish "haaaay Ameche" and "haaaay Elmer" of Don (Chubby) Gilliland, the 340­pound cherub from Jefferson City, Missouri. 
PIPES OF PAN 
•The Sophomore Cotillion, as per cus­tom, was held on the eve of the North­western game; and, as per custom, the "delightful" Palais Eoyale was the place. Some 350 couples, headed by Class President George Sobek, Hammond, In­diana, and General Chairman James Magarahan, Greenville, South Carolina, danced to the music of Lou Breese and his boys. The Scholastic went out on the limb and graciously consented to pub­lish pictures of the dance. These turned out to be shots of last season's Senior Ball. Reminds us of the time the same publication ran a feature about the laundry and printed a cut of the gener­ators in the Engineering building. 
Other shindigs were: the K. of C. vic­tory dances; the Sadie Hawkins Ball given by the Vincentians at the Indiana Club; and the ultra-popular Monogram Ball at the University Club, proceeds of which went toward the inauguration of a "blanket fund" to provide each gradu­ating monogram man ^vith an N. D. blanket as a remembrance of his sweet and innocent, somewhat carefree, under­graduate days. 
Vaudeville — or "vodvil," if you so vrish—returned to venerable Washing­ton Hall this month under the sponsor­ship of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, and with the cooperation of the local K. of 
C. Director Vince Doyle, Brooklyn, New York, sent ten acts under the footlight with 30 "prints of Washington" going to the number one team The Jitney Players hit the same stage a few weeks ago, presenting a light comedy in "Seven Keys to Baldpate," and brought down the house with a wise sprinkling of slap­stick and an appropriate use of ad lib­bing The initial fall production pre­sented by the University Theater was "Brother Orchid" on December 14-15, with Jerry Flynn, Rochester, New York, playing the dual role of Little John Sarto and Brother Orchid. 
FAME AND FORTUNE 
Santa Claus came to boys to^vn. Four sophomores, potential maxivm cum lan­de's come 1942, had their palms crossed with tokens of ?25 for maintaining the highest scholastic averages in the re­spective colleges last year. Bill Meier 
(Arts and Letters), Faulkton, South Dakota, keeping up the family recor3 established by his remarkable brother, Dick, '37; John Carney (Engineering), Des Moines, Iowa; John Eeilly (Com­merce), Dorchester, Massachusetts; and John Hogan (Science), Highland Falls, New York, were the "most-likely-to-suc­ceed" lads receiving the cash awards presented by Jerry Donovan, Tulsa, Oklahoma, president of the S. A. C. 
Louis Da Pra, East Chicago, Indiana, and Leon Lancaster, Orchard Park, New York, added another feather to their legal caps by having articles published in Current Legal Thought, the Lawyers' Digest of Law Reviews. 
Sciip, campus literary quarterly, made its 1939-40 pocket-size debut on Novem­ber 10: 72 pages of prose, poetry, book reviews, and essays, were rolled off the presses under the editorship of John Meaney, Corpus Christi, Texas. Asso­ciate editors are Brother Donald Caw­ley, C.S.C, Brooklyn, New York; John 
M. Broderick, Allentown, Pennsylvania; and Gerald Hogan, Brooklyn, New York. That brings to mind a joke about dear old Flatbush, but the Met Club might pepper us with the trite remark about "them hicks in the Middle West." 
"In the Juggler Vein," a three-column posthumous child of the late Juggler has been revived in the Scholastic by Frank Wemhoff, Fort Wayne, Indiana. Frank 
•(vrites the other campus column, "The Week," and acts as literary editor of the 
Scholastic. 
CONTROL BREAKS DOWN 
We've been holding this back, holding it under control for quite some time, but now any sane man would admit that the time is ripe to get it off our chest. For eleven months we've suffered in silence, tortured at the rack, moaning perchance in agony, visioning the happy day when opportunity would smile. And now it is here. Yes, here. We can check the lump in our throat no longer. We are free to speak to the alumni. And so with visions of peppermint sticks and sugar plums swimming in our reeling head, we must give in and—^wish all of you good Notre Dame men a Merry Christmas and a very Happy New Year. 
Irish Win Seven In Spectacular Season 
Iowa and Southern California Are Only Losses in Nine Dramatic Battles; 16 Seniors Finish Notre Dame Careers; Prospects for Next /ear Are . Promising. 
When Notre Dame left the field after its valiant but losing struggle against Southern California Nov. 25, ten regu­lars had played their last game for the Fighting Irish. Bracketed with them were six useful and capable resen'es. 
They could look back on one of the finest seasons the Irish have ever played. They could look back ^vithoufc regi-et on a job well done. They were called the "Lucky Irish" as they took four of their first five games by a margin of eight points, but, as we pointed out last month, the opposition was lucky to get as close as it did in each of those games. 
The boys were "down" after the 7 to 6 loss to Iowa, but they had no reason to be. Iowa was the fourth opponent played away from home in as many weeks and the absence of that deep-throated student cheering section meant a lot. Navy played its usual spirited game at Cleveland. 
Carnegie Tech was hopped up for the game at Pittsburgh with frat houses decorated, sidewalks painted, and all that, to such an extent that Tad Harvey, Tom Gallagher, and Bud Kerr couldn't play the next week, and several others 
BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ, '32 

were badly banged up. To the credit of Notre Dame, it must be said that Tech never did recover from the game. 
Then came Axmy, playing its most inspired and best game of the season, as a result of the same sort of student body or Cadet Coi-ps stimulus. To top it all came an Iowa team that was rid­ing high, defeated only once, in what the Hawkeyes considered the game of the year. More frat and sorority house decorations, pep sessions, placards, and the wildest newspaper build-up in Iowa history contributed to Hawkeye enthus­iasm. 
Notre Dame was not overconfident, but neither was it "coked." Elmer Lay-den couldn't afford to try to overstimu­late his team with Northwestern and Southern California still left. The Irish played their game, a waiting game, sim­ply didn't get the breaks, and walked off the field beaten, 7 to 6. 
The rall y against Northwestern proved the courage of this year's team, if proof were needed. And the gallant battle against the Trojans was the clincher. 
To those 16 seniors, Notre Dame wishes all the best. They left behind their large part in a fighting tradition, they left an example of mutual helpful­ness and friendliness which should help to weld next year's team into another great eleven. 

William (Bud) Kerr, left end has won considerable ail-American acclaim, and that without catching a single touchdown pass. He personally defeated Carnegie Tech the past two years, 7 to 0, in 1938 on a 7-yard end-around play, and 7 to 6, in 1939 when he stole the ball from Merlyn Condit and ran 21 yards to score. He was rated one of the best defensive ends of the year, and he was a fine pass-grabber, having kept touchdown marches alive in several games. 
Steve Sitko, quarterback, rounded out two years as No. 1 Notre Dame signal caller. No better blocker has ever worn a Notre Dame uniform. He was a sound field general, and a dogged punt return­er. A fighter every inch, Sitko will be greatly missed. He took a lot of criti­cism for an alleged bonehead play against Iowa (which is explained later in this article) but he never squawked. Instead he came back to play more bril-
The 1939 Squad, Its Coaches and Managers—~aL Great Outfit The Notre Dame Alumnus 
liantly than ever in his last two games. 
Harry Stevenson, Jr., left halfback, was the backfield mainstay, filling in when Ben Sheridan, Bob Saggau, and Bill McGannon were hurt. He literally outplayed Nile Kinnick of Iowa in every department, he starred against Army, and did fine work against Southern Methodist and Carnegie Tech particu­larly. Quiet, cool, courageous, Stevie was mighty handy to have around. 
Ben Sheridan was the team's most dangerous runner, as is reflected in his average of 6 plus yards for the season, he ran 27 yards against Navy and 60 against Southern California for touch­downs. He wasn't supposed to be a passer, but he did a workmanlike job against the Trojans, stealing honors for the day. A tendency toward injury made it inadvisable to use him more, but he, like Stevenson, was dependable in the right spots. 
Joe Thesing was about all you could want in a fullback. The only three-year regular on the team, he played his best ball when big Milt Piepul threatened to take over the starting assignment. Joe could run, he could block, and he could back up a line all like a fine workman. His running included some fine open field work, especially against the Tro­jans, as well as plunging for needed small yardage. 
Lou Zontini, our candidate for the title of "best money player" in the backfleld, was hampered in the last three games with a painful shoulder in­jury. After the injury had recurred twice in the Southern Callfomia and he had suffered the worst pain of his foot­ball career, he wanted to go back in against the Trojans. 
Johnny Kelleher, second string quar­terback after being unranked as a soph­omore, and fifth string as a junior, had the great pleasure of beating Purdue, 3 to 0, on the only field goal of his entire football career, and of helping to beat Southern Methodist, 20 to 19, with his point after touchdown. 
Chuck Kifile, voted the most bother­some lineman Notre Dame put on the field against the Trojans, iinally arrived after a sophomore year as a fullback, and a junior year with his leg in a cast while a broken fibula mended. Always smiling, and especially after a telling tackle or block, Chuck was 200 pounds of dynamite, a boy who really loves football—all the way. 
Joe DeFranco, 5 - foot 7 - inch left guard, came up to his advance notices after two years in which injuries ham­pered him. He didn't miss a minute as a senior because of injuries, and he turned in his best games against the toughest teams—Carnegie Tech, North­western, and Southern California. 
Tad Harvey, right tackle, worked his way up from third to second to first in as many seasons. His development as a senior won him all-Western honors. A smiling, friendly Scotch-Irish boy with a round face and 220 pounds of appar­ently relaxed muscle, he showed un­believable speed and tenacity under punts, and amazing agility for a man of his size on defense. 
Center will be weakened, drained down to the fourth team, by the loss of John Mclntyre, Jack Finneran, and Al Mooney. Mclntyre blocked George Mu­ha's try for extra point to win the Car­negie Tech game, 7 to 6. Finneran was just a step behind him, and coaches more than once considered starting fighting Jack. Mooney, in turn, who out­ranked Finneran in 1938, was only a step behind Jack. Filling the gap they will leave is something for Joe Boland to ponder these long winter nights. 
Prank Biagi, dependable second string left end; and Frank (Boodie) Albert, fiery No. 3 left tackle, didn't rate many headlines, but they did some splendid work. Just about the time the season ended, coaches admitted to themselves that Albert, a made-over guard, was one of the best tackles they'd seen all year. He did his work without flash, but his spirit and drive kept him and the team riding high, Biagi, like Albert, came up the hard way, through the ranks, to win his letter as a senior. He played fine ball, and might have done more had he not had an all-American as a rival. 
Last but not least, Capt. Johnny Kelly proved himself a great leader, and a fine wingman in his second season at right end. His finest games were against Carnegie Tech and Southern California, when time and again he picked up a blocker and literally threw him back in­to the path of other blockers and the ball-carrier. Strong, fiery, determined and a leader every inch, he kept the Irish in every ball game they played. Off the field, he was quiet and modest— an overworked pair of terms, but the only ones that adequately describe a fine gentleman and a great Fighting Irish captain. 
There will be more later about those who return and about next year's pros­pects. The boys to watch, in our winter book, are Bob Hargrave, quarterback; Bemie Crimmins, Bob Saggau, Steve Bagarus, Steve Juzwik, Bill McGannon, and Bob Hogan, halfbacks; Milt Piepul (high scorer with 36 points out of Notre Dame's 100 last Fall), Bob Leonard, and Joe Postupack, fullbacks; George Kassas and Johnny O'Brien, ends; Jim Brutz, Tom Gallagher, Paul Lillis and Cliff Brosey, tackles; Pete Kelly, Bob Maddock, Johnny Gubanich, Herky Ber­eolos, and Joe Laiber, guards; and Bob Osterman, center. 

The scores for the season follow: 

Notre Dame, 3: Purdue, 0 Notre Dame, 17; Georgia Tech, 14 Notre Dame, 20; Southern Methodist, 19 Notre Dame, 14: Navy, 7 Notre Dame, 7; Carnegie Tech, 6 Notre Dame, 14 ; Army, 0 Notre Dame, 6; Iowa. 7 Notre Dame, 7; Nortiiwestem, 0 Notre Dame. 12; Southern California, 20 
And now, the details of the last four games, which were not covered in the latest preceding issue of this publica­tion. 
Notre Dame, 14; Army, 0 

Harry Stevenson, Jr., had waited a long time for this day, and when it arrived, he knew what to do about it. He scored the first and last touchdown of his Notre Dame career on as fine a 7-yard cutback over right end as we've seen. His kicking, passing, and running were as good as he ever turned in— much to the joy of his many Brooklyn (birthplace) and New Jersey (home) I admirers. Steve Bagarus, sophomore j right halfback from South Bend, got the I other touchdown when he intercepted an Army pass and returned it 45 yards. ^ He ran down the right sideline with the aid of some blocking, but not too much, and with as beautiful a supply of re­actions and instincts as we ever hope to see in a running back. A third score was disallowed when a lineman was caught more than five yards downfield on a pass, Stevenson to Bagarus. The ;j Cadets waged their usual furious battle, . turning in what Eastern experts call their best game of the year. Stevenson's touchdown run capped a 35-yard march i which started with recovery of an Army fumble. ' 
Notre Dame, 6; Iowa, 7 Thus, on the Iowa plains, ended No-\ tre Dame's victory march which had passed through six games. It was one of those days, mates, just one of those days. The Irish played for the breaks, and didn't get one all day—^the Hawk-eyes were the first to announce that "every time the ball bounced it favored Iowa." Much has been written and said about Nile Kinnick, Iowa's great left halfback. But Harry Stevenson out­played Kinnick in every department. Man for man, and according to the sta­tistics, the Irish were superior. But the score is still Iowa 7; Notre Dame, 6. 
Steve Sitko came in for a lot of criti­cism on the play which led to the Hawk touchdown. He intercepted Kinnick's only pass of the day in his own end zone, ran it out to the 8-yard line, and then, attempting to toss a lateral, fumbled as he was tackled. He was criticized for not taking a touchback by standing in the end zone with the ball, and for trying to lateral in such cramped quarters. First of all, let it be said that he ran back from his 20-yard line to the end zone with his eye on Kinnick and then on the ball, and that he didn't know he was in the end zone when he made the catch! Movies prove there was no lowan within 20 yards of him when he started to run anyhow. And does anyone ever throw a lateral without someone else calling for it? Not only one but three men yelled for a lateral, and Sitko finally overcame his better judgment, started to toss the ball and then tried to recover it as he was hit. Iowa recovered on the 7-yard line, and went over on the third play, after being stopped for two downs. 
Notre Dame continued to play for the breaks, but, as pointed out before, didn't get them. With Milt (We The) Piepul leading the march—^with the aid of a 23-yard pass from Stevenson to Bud Kerr—^Notre Dame marched to a touchdown, and Lou Zontini missed the extra point. Neither that missed point or Sitko's misfortune cost the game, how­ever. Notre Dame should have, and un­doubtedly would have, had at least one more score with just a nod from Lady Luck. 
For example, Stevenson's last three punts were for 71, 69, and 51 yards from the line of scrimmage, each into the end zone. You'd expect one of them to stop short or to be downed — and Capt. Johnny Kelly missed one by a yard or less. Notre Dame was return­ing Kinnick's booming pimts an aver­age of 10 yards, but Iowa never got into a bad hole. Stevenson averaged 48 yards, Kinnick averaged 41 — and Iowa didn't make a yard on its three punt returns. Notre Dame made 195 yards to 93 from scrimmage, and 8 first downs to 4. The Irish completed only 2 out of 16 forward passes, but even that record is better than Iowa's one pass and one interception. 
Some consolation is foimd in the fact that the defeat came at the hands of that fine Notre Dame gentleman. Dr. Eddie Anderson, with an all-Notre Dame staff, including Frank Carideo, Jim Harris, and Bill Hofer, last year's quarterback, whose duty it was to scout the 1939 Irish. 
Notre Dame, 7; Norlhwestem, 0 

This was a game of spectacular of­fense and defense, filled with dynamite every inch of the way. Don Clawson of the 'Cats and Milt Kepul of the Irish put on as fine an exhibition of fullback plunging as the season has seen. Bill de Correvont, always dangerous, and Ben Sheridan, of Northwestern and No­tre Dame, respectively, had fans on the edge of their seats all afternoon, the former averaging 5 yards, the latter 6.7 yards. And there were other stars for both sides, but a trio of sophomore subs really broke up the game. 
DeCorrevont kicked to Bob Hargrave, Irish quarterback on the lattei's 20­yard line late in the game. Three Wild­cat tacklers closed in on him and appar­ently had him nailed to the sideline. But Hargrave turned this adverse break into a 50-yard return. A moment later, speedy Steve Juzwik, soph right half, with a dip and a dodge, raced to the 5-yard line where de Correvont nudged him out of bounds. Then Piepul took over, and he scored easily. 
There were five minutes left when the Irish kicked off and Clawson broke into the clear near midfield for a 44­yard return. The Wildcats were dan­gerous right do^vn to the end, as usual, but, as usual, Notre Dame won by a close score and a late rally. 
Southern Cal., 20; Notre Dame, 12 

There can be no regrets over this one, although with a few more breaks the Irish might have won. Had all the breaks gone the other way, however, the Trojans would have won by a larger score for Thomassin dropped a pass on the goal line and Doyle Nave fumbled when hit hard by Bud Kerr on the two-yard line, Harry Stevenson recovering in the end zone for a touchback. 
This, the 14th game of this brilliant intersectional rivalry, was in keeping ^vith the best traditions of the series— both teams played their best games of the season, each called the other the best it had faced, and a capacity crowd of 56,000, including the Old Timers of 1916 and 1917, got.a generous money's worth of thrills and action. 
Running mostly from a formation they hadn't sho«TJ before this year, the Trojans marched 68 yards to a touch­down by Grenny Lansdell the first time they got the ball. It remained 6 to 0 until the first play of the final period when Milt Piepul tied it with a 6-yard run. There were two touchdowns apiece in the dazzling last quarter. S. C. inter­cepted a Notre Dame pass on the Irish 42 to inaugurate a march which ended with Lansdell sweeping end for a touch­down. Bob Jones added the placement. 
Eleven seconds later, Benny Sheridan was in the clear for Notre Dame's only long break-away run of the year, 60 yards, and a chance to tie the score. But Johnny Kelleher's placement missed by inches, and the Trojans led, 13 to 12. Notre Dame gambled on a fourth down pass, lost and gave the ball to Troy on the Irish 41. Amby Schindler promptly broke off his right guard for another touchdown, and Jones again made the placement—^with two minutes left. 

That our statement about a "few more breaks" is not idle chatter is indi­cated by some of the following observa­tions: The first half ended with Notre Dame in possession on the Trojan 6­yard line, with second down coming up. John Kovatch's grab of a pass as he ran out of bounds put the ball there. With another step in which to cut, Kovatch might have scored, for there was no one between him and the goal line. 
The second half ended with the Irish on Troy's ll-yard line, goalward bound. Had that fourth down pass of Milt Piep­ul to Steve Bagarus clicked, the story might have been far different. 
Sheridan was almost in the clear on a punt return, but was tripped up by a desperate Trojan hand. Bud Kerr was clear for a touchdown on a pass from Harry Stevenson, but Schindler reached up and deflected the ball ever so slight­ly, just enough so Kerr couldn't grab it. 
One march folded up when Steve Sitko was tackled as he caught the ball deep in Trojan territory. It might have been ruled interference, and the crowd thought it should have been. But the official was on the play—and it was purely and simply a matter of official judgment, just as a runner sliding into second base is safe or out, depending on the umpire's instant decision. 
Notre Dame's two attempts for extra point were against a strong north wind. Southern California's three were ivith the wind, and both of Notre Dame's came close — might have clicked with the wind not pushing them as they went off the true line. With a 14 to 13 lead, or a 13-13 tie, the Irish wouldn't have gambled on that last two-minute fourth down pass. 
But with all these might-have-beens, there is still to be considered what Southern California might have done had they gone behind. They would have played different ball behind than they played when ahead. 
And there is also the memory of a fine season brilliantly topped off with as exciting and expert a finish as Notre Dame stadium has witnessed yet. 
(ADDITIONAL SPOBTS ON FACE 103) 

Interesting development among Notre Dame authors was a letter received from 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS. . . . Cardinal Maglione, papal secretary of 
News Is Where You Find It.—By Fred­eric William Wile, '91. (Bobbs-Mer­riU. ?3.75.) 

No one will nod over this book. Dur­ing nearly a quarter of a centurj' as a foreign correspondent, Mr. Wile seems to have been everywhere and to have seen or interviewed everyone of import­ance in Europe. You hurry from page to page in the company of kings and diplomats, explorers and artists, journ­alists and generals, and always with Mr. Wile taking your arm and, in a few deft sentences, giving you the background that makes the company stand out as if on a stage waiting their turn for some dramatic scene. 
Perhaps the most fascinating chapter just at this time is his story of the events leading up to the first World War, a picture of the war party in Ger­many maneuvering behind the scenes but very determinedly pushing the Kais­er to declare war, while stirring up the emotions of the people to accept that declaration. The German people he learned to love. They were "a hearty, healthy race of intelligent, patriotic, tol­erant, hospitable, home-loving, music-worshiping folk, who ate ravenously, and sometimes audibly, and drank free­ly, but capably." And the Kaiser was not the cruel savage war lord described by our American newspapers, but a serious peace- loving ruler who when he finally signed the order for mobilization, said to his counsellors, "you will live to regret this." He describes the visit of President Wilson to Paris as the hope of the world, as the man who would turn swords into ploughshares forever. 
But Mr. Wile, cosmopolite as he was, never outgrew his love for the Hoosier state, his home city of LaPorte, Indiana, and his college, Notre Dame. In the midst of exciting events in Denmark, he doesn't forget that the Minister to that country is a former professor of Notre Dame; and that the wife of Alexander Thackera, consul general at Berlin, was related to two old Notre Dame men, "Buck" and Neil Ewing. 
It's a long memory, Mr. Wile's, but not too accurate in quoting from his schoolbooks. There are two mistakes in the line he quotes from the Ars Poetica. But Father Fitte or Father Scheier would forgive him for that; he's done the rest so eminently well. 
—(Eev.) EUGENE P. BUKKE, C.S.C, '06 

After 20 years of anonymity the founder of the campus school of bur­lesque poetry, the paraphraser of Ham­let and the creator of Kokomo Sue, was prevailed upon to reveal his identity. 
"T. E. B.," whose signature is one of the best known "by-lines" of the Chicago Tribune and whose rewrite of "Eomeo and Juliet" is used as a text by ad­vanced teachers of verse, was revealed on December 13—^to those who don't al­ready know—as the Eev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C. 
A 64-page collection of Father Burke's poems, both serious and comic, is being published by the Students Activities Council under the title of T. E. B. It wiU be dist-ributed through the campus Bookstore and at the Book Shop in South Bend. The cost will be 25 cents— autographs extra. 
Father Tom Burke, for the benefit of those not personally acquainted with the Bard of the Presbytery, has been both prefect of discipline and professor of English at Notre Dame. In addition, he served for a time as assistant secretary of the University, taught for many years at Columbia (now Portland) Uni­versity, and has been a member of The Ave Maria staff since 1932. 
NO JANUARY ISSUE 
The ALUMNUS will be issued eight times in the present year. The October, November and De­cember issues have already ap­peared, to he followed by the Feb­ruary, March, April, May and June issues. The January issue will be dropped for several reas­ons, not the least of which Is eco­nomy in the Alumni Office budget. Also, January is a low spot, both for ALUMNUS -news and for the inclination of correspondents to write news (within the holiday season}. 
Secretaries of the clubs and classes are asked to have news for the February issue in the Alumni Office by January 15, since the February issue will be out a week earlier than usual. 

state, directed to Eev. George Sauvage, C.S.C, procurator of the Congregation of Holy Cross, expressing the pleasure of the Holy Father with the "thorough­ness and order" evidenced in the eco­nomic study. Physical Assets of the United States, by Eev. Edward Keller, C.S.C. 
Father Keller's next study, on the na­tion's income distribution, mil be re­leased early next year. 
Two Notre Dame graduates appear on . the current fiction market. 
When you ask for a Wallace thriller, the derk may give you one of Edgar's but you won't go wrong if you specify Francis. Frank Wallace, '23, who recent­ly -wrote a solution of the Great Pitts­burgh Material Mystery, has jumped into the realm of detective fiction with Little Hercules. Published by M. S. Mill Co., New York (§2), Frank's new novel brings a fast-moving plot, revolving aroimd a group of characters headed by a cartoonist, Terry Moore, and his comic strip creation. Little Hercules. Little Hercules possesses a sort of quixotic nature involved in modem activities. And when the cartoonist himself is faced vdtii a murder, in which he takes on the aspects of accomplice if not mur­derer, the origin of the idealism of Little Hercules is evident in the creat­or's reactions. Detectives, mobsters, Hollywood and New York, add to the pace of the plot. Eomance is present, with Mr. Wallace handling it rather well in proper proportions. It is a hard book to stop reading, and very easy to keep reading, which is all that a mystery fan can hope for in a crowded market.' 
George Shuster, '15, now acting pres­ident of Hunter College, New York City, is the author of a new Macmillan novel. Look Away (§2.50). Commoniveal prais­es the book thus: ".... It is a singularly balanced and sane picture of human life lived under conditions of imusual oppor­tunity and of grave challenge alike " 
The scene of the story is southwestern Wisconsin. The plot hinges about the romance and marriage of a particularly attractive young woman and a very handsome, courageous and intelligent young man. 
Professor Louis F. Buckley, '28, act­ing head of the Economics Department, suggests the following: 
The Pop^s Flan for Social Recon­
struction, by the Eev. Charles Bruehl (Devin-Adair, 1939); The Modem So­cial a7id Economic Order, a symposium (Our Sunday Visitor Press, 1939); Managing Personal Finances, by D. F. Jordan (Prentice-Hall, 1938); World Trade, by Ethel B. Dietrich (Henry Holt and Company, 1939); Unions of. Their Own Choosing, by Robert E. R. Brooks, (Yale University Press, 1939); Financing Government, by Harold M. Groves, (Henry Holt and Company, 1939); Economics and Society, by John 
P. Cronin, S.S., (American Book Com­pany, 1939). 
Professor Henry B. Froning, head of the Chemistry and Chemical Engineer­ing: Departments, suggests Atoms in Action, by George Russell Harrison, professor of physics, director of applied physics and of the research laboratory of experimental physics at the Massa­chusetts Institute of Technology, pub­lished by William Morrow and Company, New York. Mr. Froning says: "This is one of the best books appearing in years in the field of worthwhile popular sci­ence. The chemical and chemical engin­eering alumni will find it interesting and thought provoking in a field so nearly related to their daily professional activities. It will serve in the dual capacity of orientation and diversion." 
• 

Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C, '18, head of the Politics Department of the University, suggests Union Now, fay Streit. The author suggests that all democracies of the world should unite to form a great federation similar to that of the United States of.America. Another highly regarded book. Father Boland says, is When There is No Peace, by Hamilton Fish Armstrong. It considers the possibility of the United States entering the European war. A third reference by Father Boland is L'tSglise et Etat, a book appearing in French by Luigi Sturzo. The book con­cerns the relation of Church and State, but is published in French. 
Professor Cletus Chizek of the College of Commerce suggests: 
Truth in Accounting, by Kenneth MacNeal. (University of Pennsylvania Press, 1939. 53.50.) 
Accounting Concepts of Profit, by Ste­phen Gibnan. (The Ronald Press Com­pany, 1939. $5.00.) 
Making the Annual Report Speak for Industry, compiled by the National As­sociation of Manufacturers — James P. 
Selvage and Morris M. Lee. (McGraw-jurisprudence, and Three is law and so­Hill Company, Inc., 1938. ?4.00.) cial science. Practical Budget Procedure, by John 
H. McDonald. (Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1939. 
Laio, the State and the International
?5.00.) 
Community, by James Brown Scott. Social Security Taxation and Records, (Columbia University Press, 2 vols. by Calvin Favinger and Daniel Wilcox. ?8.75). (Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1939. ?7.50.) 
This set is described as "practically all that has been written on 'law' the 'state' and the 'international community' from the time of fifth century Greece 
Professor James J. Kearney, '31, of to the opening of the seventeenth cen­the College of Law, suggests several tury. new publications in that field: 
"In the hands of a lesser author the subject matter of this work would be 
Readings in Jurisprudence, by Jerome 
badly mangled, but the skill of Dr. Scott Hall. (Bobbs-Merrill, 1938, §7.50). For has developed it into a masterly syn­students of legal theory and of the phil­thesis of the thought on the matter...." 
osophy of law, the book contains ex­cerpts from the writings of about 200 These two volumes. Professor Kearney authors from Plato to the present. Three says, could be read with profit by any­major divisions are listed. One is the one having an interest in law, politics philosophy of law. Two is analytical or international affairs. 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
and the 

Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame 
wish the 

Alumni and Alumnae of the Universiiy of Notre Dame 
Of vertj <jtappy Gkristmas ana CHew if ear 
May You Sliarc With Uie World the Annual Spiritual Refreshment of the Observance of t/ie Birthday of Our Lord, 
May You Share as Notre Dame Men the Added Annual Enjoyment of the Meaning of Christmas to the World Through the Glory of Our Lady. 
And May the Ncio Year Be for AU of You One Fitted With the Spiritual Strength, the Cultural Advancement, the Physical Health and the Professional Prosperity Which Are the Objectives of the University for Her Graduates. 
Remember to Work, With AU the Talents You Have Been Priviteged to Acquire, for the Establishment Among AU Men of That Good Will to Which the Christmas Chorus Promised Peace. 
$-^:$^-$^-$^^-$^^^^^^^$$-$^$-$^^$$^ 
« a «
ALUMNI CLUBS 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) Lawrence T. O'Kcill, '34. 393 Elk St., Albany, President; John F. Campbell, '26, 39 Van Buren St., Albany, Secretary. 
Our annual Summer Outinff was held on July 
22. Tom Dollard "was again host to the club members at his summer place at Babcock Lake. As usual, Tom proved the perfect host -with the result that we all enjoyed a fine afternoon and evening. 
The club again sponsored a ticket promotion for the Notre Dame-Army eame. and vre sent six happy people to New York with expenses paid and with good seats for the game (our thanks to Herii Jones for his cooperation). 
And speaking of the Army game, it would he unfair not to mention here the splendid time the fellows from this area had at the Reunion and Kally staged by the Notre Dame Club of New York City on the eve of the game. I am sure Bob Hamilton will give the readers of the ALUM­NUS the whole story, so my only comment can he that it was a grand affair. It is the consensus of opinion of our members that anybody from this area that misses one of these afTairs in the future can truly feel sorry for himself. 
We are glad to welcome some new members: Martin Callagy, transferred from New York Citj* by the State Department: Joe Kuharich, now foot­ball coach at Vincentian Institute; and Joe Nar­donc, baseball coach at the same school; also, Ed Gretchen, a member of the attorney general's staff. 
Our nomination for the busiest man'in Albany —our president, Larry O^KcUL Larry is head basketball and baseball coach and assistant foot­ball coach at Schuyler High School. In addition to this Larry finds time to conduct his share of classes nt Schuyler, continue his work for a master's degree at State College, and during the summer plays baseball with the lIcEnaney's, a team in the Albany Twilight League. 
Sfaerb Herrick is one of this area's most popu­lar radio announcers. His handling of the broad­casts of the Albany Eastern League baseball games this summer made a decided hit. 
Clare (Doc) Tonhey, who moved his law office from Albany to Glens Falls about a year ago, didn't take long to make that section of New York state conscious of his ability. He was the Democratic nominee for district attorney of "War­ren County this fall. The fact that he was de­feated moans little when we consider that hjs op­ponent has been district attorney of that county for 18 years. Doc carried the city of Glens Falls, his opponent's home town, by a good majority but lost out in the rural sections. 
Jim Orislanc has recently completed his stud­ies at Albany Law School and is now a member of the bar. "Wc predict for him a bright future —with his genial personality and ever-present smile, he can't miss, 
llikc Lcding seems to get younger-looking as the years roll on. Besides holding a responsible position with the General Electric Company in Schenectady, Mike is president of the Schenec­tady Catholic Youth League. 

Dan Cunha has just completed a busy season of football officiating and is now booked for a busy winter as a basketball referee. 
We have missed Francis Disney at our recent meetings, but we all hope Francis can find time to be with Bs at our future meetings. 
The 1939-1940 Alumni Board 

Prof. William L. Benitz, '11, Notre Dame, Ind  JHonorary  President  
Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., '17, Chicago, 111  President  
Henry C. Wurzer, '25, Davenport, Iowa  First  Vice-President  
Keene Fitzpatrick, '13, San Francisco, Calif.  Second  Vice-President  
James  E. Armstrong, '2o, Notre Dame, Ind. .  .....Secretarif-Treasurer  
William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Ind.  .  ,  Assistant  Secretary  
Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, N. J.  Director  to  19^0  
Francis  H. AIcKeever, '03, Chicago, HI.  .  Director  to 1941  
Edward F. OToole, '25, Chicago, 111  „  Mirector  to  1942  
John  T. Higgms, '22, Detroit, Mich.  „  Director  to 194S  
Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, Washington, D.C.  .  Ex-Officio  Director  to 1940  

At our ne.\-t summer outing the married men's baseball team will have at least two recruits. On June 10 this year Chris Connolly took as his bride Miss Edith Morrow of Pittsburgh. The wedding took place at the Church of the Annun­ciation, Pittsburgh, and the honeymon included a trip to Bermuda. On October 21 Dick Walsh took as his bride Miss Alice Touhey of Albany. The scene of the wedding was St. Vincent De Paul's Church, Albany. 
Flans are now being made for our annual Christmas dance to be held during the holidays. John CampbelL 
CHICAGO 
James T. Igoe, '32, 328 S. Jefferson, Pres­ident; John F. Clark, '35, 4738 Washington Blvd., Secretary. 

November 16 marked the fourth of a series of monthly smokers held during the current year. The scene of the informal gathering was the Knickerbocker Hotel under the chairmanship of Paul O'Toole. The principal speaker of the eve­ning was Marvin McCarthy, sports editor of the Chicago "Times." Among the guests were Byron Kanaley, chairman of the Board of Trustees for the University, Dan Hilgartner, national alumni president, and Elmer Whitty, honorary president of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. I t goes without saying the smoker measured up to its predecessors in attendance and interest. 
Unknown to many but appreciated by all who have had the pleasure of hearing them, is the Notre Dame Club of Chicago Glee tlub . The group is comprised of 15 men who for the most part are past members of the Glee Club of the University. The group was organized under the direction of Tony Kopccky just prior to the club's first evening smoker, which smoker marked their first public appearance. Since that time the or­ganiiation has come a long way under Tony's direction and the management of Jf>e Henncberry. To date they have appeared at the first two smokers and the summer dance held at the Edge­water Beach Hotel. Since the time of its origin last sprlnsz the members have faithfully wet at the Notre Dame room of the I^ickerbocker Hotel each Monday evening to rehearse their numbers. The group has long since reached per­
fection and it ganization can group consists Frank Hetreed, Jim Carmody, O'Toole, Roy Goodman, AI Flynn. Watch 
 is needless to say the parent or­ be proud of its offspring. The  of Ray Molligan. Frank Creadon, 
 Tom Kerrigan, Irvin Corcoran.  Ardi Gott, Rnss Stempcr. Pan!  Lawlcr. George Menard, Hort  Stepan, Larry Chonlnard, Tom  for their next appearance. 
John F. Clatic 

CLEVELAND John J. Collins, '32, 1090 Union Commerce BIdg.. President; Richard P. Prczebcl, '35, 800 Bulkley BIdg., Secretary-. 
Club activity has sort of bogged down here in Cleveland, but I guess that's to be expected, as it couldn't keep going at the peak it reached over the Na\'3- week-end. About all we have left is a few pleasant memories and a very involved financial report that we hope to straighten out one of these days. However, one thing is cer­tain. The various functions did make a little money. Not in proportion to the work involved, but a profit. 
John Rcidy, Nick Ruffing and committee did a top-flight job on the scholarship fund activitj'. The prizes, as you probably know, were all-expense trips to the Army game in New York. As of yore, they were won by outsiders. No one in the club has yet won this award. It would certainly stimulate business in future years if one local club member copped a prize. 
Bob Morrissej-, golfer par excellence, has been picked to head the Christmas dance. It's to be held on December 26 at Hotel Statler. Bob prom­ises plenty of innovations and excitements and just to prove himself a man of his word, has already secured the Arthur Murray Dancers for an exhibition. 
Personal Palaver: Phil Gcoehegan has deserted the Central National Bank to enter the construc­tion business with his father-in-law. . . . George Kozak, football coach at John Adams High, and Ed Caldwell, his assistant, went through nine games undefeated and untied and climaxed the season by winning the annual charity game in the stadium. The game drew some 40,000 spec­tators. Even Art Haley couldn't kick about a crowd like that. . . . Jim Byrne has been cover­ing scholastic sports for the Cleveland "News" and is doing a swell job. , , . Tom Conley'a John Carroll University football team won the Big-Four championship and had a swell season all the way through. 
Dick Prezcbel. 

DENVER 
James P . Logan, '18, Logan Moving & Storage Co.. 37th & Marion Sts., President; Charles F. Cassidy; '38. 1249 Fillmore St., Secretary. 

The Denver Notre Dame Club, Inc., has really been working its head off. The whole club got out and really hustled, with the results showing a train load of 300 or more to leave here Friday afternoon on the Denver Notre Dame Special No. 7 bound for South Bend to see the U.S>C game. And when I say the boys really worked I mean just that. Specific honors should go, however, to the trip committee: Bart O'Hmra, Fred Goshnrat, Jim Jjtfgmn, Johnny Humphreys. Bob Dick. Harry Lawrence and Ed Mansfield. They are the boys that did the heavy work and assumed the respon­sibility. The club also owes much to the Union Pacific Hailroad for its earnest cooperation in every way. 
The trip was unique this year, in that it in­cluded a conducted tour of the campus and lunch before the game in the student dining hall. These were very good selling points, particularly where many of the wives were concerned. Perhaps the most significant thing about the whole trip is ihe fact that this is the first year the club has ever had any competition. . 
Present students from the Denver area, headed by Ed Wurtzcbach, generously met the party in South Bend and conducted the tour of the cam­pus. This arrangement received much favorable comment, and the club is grateful to the boys who so kindly gave their time and services. 
Thanks also to the Notre Dame Club of the 
St. Joe Valley which provided busses in South 
Bend to take the party to the campus. 
Charles Cassidy. 

DETROIT 
Howard F. Bcechinor, ex. *0S, 1300 Union Guardian Bldg.. President; Malcolm F. Knaus, '26, 423 Curtis Bldg., Secretary. 

The Notre Dame Club of Detroit held its an­lual meeting for election of officers, Monday night, November 13. There were 7G there. The scene was the "Whittier Hotel, a very attractive place, and the management extended itself "with a fine party. A great share of the fellows ar­rived early enough to gather and renew acquaint­ances in the Gold Cup Room, 
At the meeting yours truly, the secretary, gave his annual report, and Dr. Neil J. "NVhalcn, the treasurer, delighted everyone with the very brief comment to the effect that there was a juicy sur­plus in the treasury. President Howard Bcech­inor then briefb' enumerated some of the club's accomplishments during the past year. Our at­tendance at monthly meetings has built up to an average of 60. In addition to that, we had 400 at our Christmas dance. 3500 at the Van "Wallace boxing show, and G40 to the Notre Dame-Navy game at Cleveland. The Rockne Memorial took much of our time and eftort. 
Gil Schaefer was named temporary chairman and called for nominations for trustees to replace the four retiring from office, namely Don O'Kecfe, John E. Moore. Hariy F. Kelly and John W. Brennan. The following were nominated: Herb 
A. Mcndclson, Frank J. McGinnis, Paul Foley, John W. Brennan. Charles H. Sdiumm, Jay L. "Biffy" Lee and Harry F. Kelly. The members present chose Herb Mendelson, Frank McGinnis. Biffy Lee and Harrj- F. Kelly. 
When the nominations were opened for presi­dent, there were several individuals who spoke eloquently of the work that Howard Beechinor and his administration had done during the past year and appealed to the members to re-elect the officers for another term and. in the face of concerted effort on the part of the presiding chairman and also the ofTicers to prevent any steam-roller tactics, the entire four officers were re-elected. Therefore, the following remain in office: Howard F. Beechinor. president; Frank J, SfcGlnnis. vice-pr«sident; Malcolm F. Knaus, secretary; Dr. Neil J, Whalen, treasurer. 
Gil Sdiaefer pleaded for help for the officers and called attention to the fact that our charter permitted assistant officers. Therefore. John Brennan. Art Cronin and Ray Brett were nom­inated for second vice-president, and John Bren­nan was elected; Ted Teldman was chosen as­sistant treasurer over Ted Trefzer, and Ed Mo­riarty is assistant secretary, winning over Tom Moran. 
Howard Bcechinor then spoke expressing appre­
ciation in the show of confidence which was 
accorded his administration and asked for help 
and ideas from the club members. Larry Ger-
non showed that he is looking ahead when he 
called attention to a 1940 trip to the Southern 
California game. Guests for the evening were 
Gus Henderson, head coach. Hunk Anderson, line -coach and Harry "Wismer, vice-president of the Detroit Lions. Ihey brought with them movies of the Lions-Giants game which were shown for 
the first time. 
Malcolm F. Knans. 

HARRISBURG 
Robert AL Johnston, *33. Box 108, Presi­dent; Joseph R. Farrcil, '15, 32 N. 27th St.. Camp Hill, Pa., Sccretar>-. 

The Catholic Boy Scouts of the diocese recent­ly assembled for vespers at the Cathedral in Harrisburg. Father Vincent Mooncy, C.S.C., of Washington, D. C, addressed this gathering of boys at this service in a mighty fine manner, and we were proud of him. Quite a few of our mem­bers had the opportunity of a short visit with Father Mooney while he was here, and we hope that he will find an early opportunity of visiting here again. 
We note that Walter J. Lutz and Robert M-Johnston were recently elected to membership in the Engineers Society of Pennsylvania. Walter has been following the heating and ventilating game, and Bob recently started out for himself in the chemical field. This note seems to be of interest because one generally associates Harris­burg with activities other than of an engineering phase. On looking over our membership list, though it is of interest to note that the engineers outnumber the lawyers, bankers, clergy, and even the politicians. Our oldest member, Edward C. Smith, Sr.. is the electrical engineer of the Har­risburg Steel Company. Ed also maintains an of­fice where he does consulting work in regards to compressed gas containers for a selected clientele. Ed Smith, Jr.. a recent graduate in chemical en­gineering, has iust become associated with the Walter H. Kiddc Co. of Bloomfield. N. J., where he is following an electro-plating process at 
present. 
William A. Gorman is in the engineerinj? sec­tion of the Department of Health. Bill's work is in connection with certain sanitary conditions of the commonwealth. Harry P. Breslin is looking after the electrical purchases of the Pennsylvania Department of Highways to the Turnpike in order to design bridges for that engineering feat. 
E. 3L Donohue (Lancaster), who studied Chem Engineering at Notre Dame in '29-'32, represents an electrical manufacturer in sales work in this vicinity. The secretary of the club at one time thought that he was an engineer, and so can claim classification in this group. He is employed by an engineering firm — the General Electric Company. 
J. R. FarrclL 

INDIANAPOLIS 
J. Albert Smith, '34. 2218 N. Meridian St.. President: Elbert W. Mahoney, '2S. 3936 Central Ave.. Sccretarj*. 

The Indianapolis club was invited by the Indian­apolis Chamber of Commerce to participate in its annual appreciation luncheon for American Legion officials held at the Scottish Rite Cathedral here. Ray Kelly, recently elected national com­mander of the Legion, was guest of honor and principal speaker. 
The national headquarters of the American Legion are located in Indianapolis, so the event was principally a Legion and civic affair, never­theless about 60 Notre Dame men were preieiit —enough for the luncheon chmirznan to remark that he would almost take it for a meetinir of the A.OJI. were it not for the locale. 
Ray Kelly gave an exceptionally fine address, which you have undoubtedly seen quoted in the newspapers, and really made a big impression on the local people. 
Al Smithy our president, sat at the speaker's table with the Chamber of Commerce heads, other civic officials, officers of the American Zjegion and Auxiliary, and Army officers in command at Fort Benjamin Harrison, near here. 
Some of our own members attended who have lately been a little dilatory about attending our regular Monday noon luncheons at the Spink Arras so we are going to try to get Ray "StOr to speak for us and bring them ovt again. 
El Mahoney. 

KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) 
John J. O'Connor. '34. 4133 Merrier St.. Kansas City. Mo.. President; Norman H . Bowes. '33, 5525 RockhiB Road, Kansas City, Mo.. Secretary. 
The nlumni club of Kansas City will cooperate with the campus club in supporting the annual dinner dance December 27. at the Milbum Coun­try Club. Further information may be secured from the officers of the respective groups. In­quiries have also been made about a grand holi­day smoker; but no definite plans have been completed. 
The local contingent Is rumored to be digging grimly in for the holiday season with its inci­dental wave of exuberant students and expectant creditors. Many of the latter may be disai»­pointed after that Iowa jersey misunderstanding and the Trojan "blitzkreig." 
Weddings: Mary Elizabeth Dooley of Kansas City and James Looy, ex. '34. last June. Doro­thy Dugan and T. McGcc Reardon this past No­vember at which Vince DeConrsey was among the morning-frocked gentry. 
About 200 alumni and local enthusiasts took in the Iowa and Southern Cal tilts. Among the travelers were: Dare Crooks, Martin Crowe* Dr. Gerald Barry. Fred Mancnso. Bob Tyler, John Dugan. Shotgun McGratfa, Bob Pcndersast^ Jim Higgins, Jim Bray, Vince Blaarin, Hal Qninlan. Frank luen. and a host of others. Many of them were accompanied by You-Know-Whom, but at­tempted to assert some independence. Enough interest was shown this fall to warrant consid­eration of an alumni s[)ecial to some key game on the 1940 schedule. 
Harry Baojan, '17, was through here recently, en route eastward with his Dayton University squad of 21. This "thin blue line" invaded the Moraga Valley and tied the mighty Gaels of St. Mary's, California, B-B. As to the other Notre Dame coaches in this area: Al Gebert, '31, at 
•\Vichita University, won his conference title. He was assisted by Harry Meyers, *37, formerly of Walthnm, Massachusetts. Marty Peters and Don Elser had a good year at St. Benedict's in their first year in the Kansas Conference. Hardi Sdiwartz and Tom Gorman did well at Greigh­ton University in a hectic Missouri Valley sea­son. 
We are trying a weekly luncheon experiment each Thursday on Engleman's Balcony at 12:00 noon. AH who can see their way clear for five minutes or 50 minutes are urged to ke ^ this date. Alumni recently moved to this district— "come-heres" In Ozark lingo—are nrged to send their names and addresses to the local officers. 
Frank Tyler recently made inquiry about Joe Brandy and Pete Bahan of the '22 era. Can any­one offer any information? 
Ambrose O'ConncII, of 'Washington. D. C . was through here recently on a flying trip ^\^th lots to do and little time wherewith to do it. 
Xorman M. Bowes. 
MILWAUKEE 
John J. Burke. *35, 110 E. Wisconsin Ave-. President; John E- Claudcr, *34, 1219 \V. VUet St., Sccrctarj*. 
Club activities have been rather slow for the past month, with one or two exceptions. Novem­ber 2 we held the drawing for four tickets and expenses for the Southern California game. The lucky man was John Bnist. This is the first time the winner has been a Notre Dame man. John's brother, Paul, was in on the ticket, so wc hope they enjoyed the game. 
Eugene' Galdabtni was married November 18 to Mazion Jens, who by the way, is a cousin of Jim Crowley. Gene*s brother, A. P. Galdabini, was best man. 
Now that football season is over, the time has come to present our Rockno Memorial trophy to the winner of the Catholic High School con­ference. This year Messmer High School of Mil­waukee was the winner. 
During the Christmas holidays we plan on having a luncheon at the Mar>*land Hotel for the students returning home. The Maryland is our official headquarters in Milwaukee. Any Notre Dame men visitine Milwaukee are urged to stop there as we have a directory of Notre Dame men at the desk. If further information is wanted the hotel will refer visitors to me. 
That's all for now. Best of luck to the work of the Student Commission for Decent Literature. John E. Claudcr. 
NEW JERSEY 
Daniel J. O'Neill, '26, 184 X. AValnut St, East Orange, President; Hancy P. Rock­well, '34, 1202 Essex House, 1048 Broad St, Newark, Secretarj'. 
Past Activities: 
The trip to the Carnegie Tech game was a com­plete success according to all reports, and. ex­clusive of that rare tropical malady known as a cold contracted by Jack "Winberry and Dr. Paul O'Connor, no other casualties were sustained. 
The Hard Times Dance and Scholarship Benefit were both very successful and reflect great credit on their respecti\-e chairmen, Sam Colamsso and Pele Quinn. Some of the hard times costumes were excellent and reached a climax with Cliff Saus\ille. who told us the sheriff had gotten his suit. 
Bill Derricks presented his dance ticket money (198 pennies) in the baby's sock. Hope he didn't rob the baby's bank! Bill Quirk assured us he was having a grand time, and then added plain­tively "Wish I could afford it." Promptly at mid­night the Army game tickets were given out amid much excitement. 
The Jersey Club brought Greg Rice, '39. on from South Bend for the national cross country run held on November 19 in Newark. We were delighted to sec that he took second place and lost only to Don Lash, the six-times winner. 
The Army game rally at the Manhattan Center, planned and executed by the New York club, was an excellent evening, and it was a real pleasure to see so many old faces from school. 
The "Ear to the Ground Committee" reports: 
Jack O'Keefe is recovering from an appendec­tomy which Was unfortunately complicated by pneumonia. T^e Consolidated Edison Company of New York is anxiously awaiting Jack's return to the ofHce. 
Jack Adams was reported examining, the hotel exhibition at the Grand Central Palace. 
After a x*ery pleasant game of golf, George Wcnz and Jim Fagan supplied us with some \-ery interesting notes about varied '34 men: 
Joseph A. Ourfcin, who started in the real estate business, decided in 1938 to take up a\ia­tion. This fall he received his commission from the Naval Air Station at Pensacola. He was as­signed to the cruiser S.S. Chicago sailing for Hawaii on submarine patrol duty. 
Joe Young, who is married and has a charming little daughter, is working with the firm of Lybrand Roth Bros. & 3Iontgamer>-. 
Dan Young, who was married in Juno, is with Touche-Nibens, accountants. 
Jack DriscoM has forsaken Jersey for North Carolina, where he is associated with a paper company. 
Clint AVinter, who is engaged to he married, is now working out of Baltimore with the Worth­ington P\imp Co. 
Ray Troy passed his bar examination and is practicing law. 
Maurice Riganle is working with Armour & Company. 
Gimbel Bros., one of the large New York de­partment stores, is fortunate in having Don Dugan directing the activities of the sporting goods section. 
As if working all day as an accountant were not enough, John Dumpcrt is studying law at night. 
H. P. Rockwell, Jr. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Daniel D. Halpin. '31, 420 Riverside Dr., President; Robert A. Hamilton. '28, 63 Wall St.. Sccrctar>'. 
New York isn't the biggest club we have, but it does things in keeping with the traditions of America's biggest city. Luckily, in this case, the prophets are honored in their own territory, and the club members know through their own New York "Alumnus" the Who's AVho and the ^Vhat's What of the many-sided program sponsored by the Club. 
The 2,500 persons who jammed the Manhattan Center on the night before the Army game, saw a manifestation of the organization that has won increasing acclaim. Led by Chairman Dick Donoghue, aided by sub-chairmen Bcckman. FricI and Hcckelmann, and committee workers who worked, the program was enthusiastically re­ceived, including the national broadcast of a half hour featuring a number of the celebrities pres­ent. Included in the celebrities speaking or in­troduced were: Rev. J, Hugh O'DonneU, C.S.C representing the University, Captain William Wood of Army, and Elmer Layden of Notre Dame, John Kieran. Arch Ward, Hey\vood Broun. Postmaster General James Farley, George M. Cohan, Dick Powell. Joan Blondell (yes. the ladies were present in large and attractive num­bers), Grantland Rice, several Army team alumni. Francis Wallace (see book suggestions) as master of ceremonies, and a host of others. From the Alumni Office angle, the time was spent during the entire Rally by your personal representative in shaking hands at the door with the hundreds of local and out-of-town alumni (and they came from the whole U. S.). Top the program with a substantial profit—in spite of a low per capita cost and a large guest list—and you have pretty close to Exhibit A in how to conduct a function, at least in New York. 
While all this was going on. the scholarship committee, which has Sl.OOO worth of New York boys, S250 each for four from senior to fresh­man,, on the campus each year, went out more quietly with the annual sale of tickets to mem­bers and friends, and wound up. under the able generalship of John Balfc with the necessary $1,000, and a little cushion besides. You might also contact New York on how to select scholar­ship recipients, as they have sent out a uniformly fine boy every year under the plan. 

Undaunted by the rigors of the Army week-end, the club sponsored a trip to the Southern Califor­nia game on the campus. Warren Fogel led the activities on this front, and a delegation was on hand for the thrilling finale of the Notre Dame season. Bob Hamilton's promise of a lulling sleep on the Flacemaker w'as in question when the delegation arrived, but the ^ime pushed the orig­inal complaints back to a remote point on the calendar, and with Saturday night and Sunday in South Bend and on the campus, the firm of Hamilton & Morpheus was probably doing busi­ness again on the return trip. 
Now, and this is music to the University, which echoes in the Alumni Office, the club has not stopped with the attractive and always popular athletic events. All clubs have received the fine and enthusiastic plan of the New York Club for the Second Annual Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday. December 10. Undoubtedly, many dubs will join the roster this year in ob­servation of this commendable project. Arch­bishop Spellman has offered St. Patrick's Cathe­dral to the club in iiew York for that occasion. Many outstanding guests have been invited. Paul Miholchic is the capable chairman in charge. The occasion, in any club, is an outstanding op­portunity to impress the spiritual side of Notre Dame as it continues to influence our alumni upon the community in which the club functions. 
You saw in the last "Alumnus" the fine work that the New York Club's Placement (Committee, under John Balfe, is doing. 
And the club, in spite of these major, large operations, continues to hold frequent meetings for members of divers attractions, and increas­ing interest. All clubs can see much of the preaching of the Alumni Office in practice in the New York Club columns of this magazine. Many may not be adaptable in whole to other clubs, but in principle, they offer a challenge of perform­ance. 
NEW ORLEANS 
Charles de la VergnCf '25, 1015 Maritime 
BIdg.. President; Austin Boyle, '31. 621 
Bourbon St., SccrctaO'* 

Most of the club's activities during^ the fall consisted of a luncheon and going out individually to see Tulane beat Notre Dame-coached football teams. 
'Jack Meagher brought Auburn, Jim Crowley brought Fordham, Harry Mchre came in with Mississippi, and Frank Thomas was in with Ala­bama, and all were defeated. 
Hugh Magevny and others of the Memphis club saw Charlie de la Vergnc at the Ole Miss, game, and Laro' Mullins and Cyp Sporl helped entertain CrowJcy and the rest of the coaching talent on their appearances. 
Other football visitors included George Bums of Kenosha, Wisconsin, and Bailey Walsh of Memphis, and Bill Bcrgan of Houston, Texas. 
By this time, members will be resting com­fortably again after the December meeting, which was planned to be a crab and shrimp boil, with lager for washer, a great New Orleans institution. 
AI Vittcr, Jr.. '35, has transferred from New Orleans to Baton Rouge for the Louisiana Con­servation Department as director of research and statistics. He has had several articles prominent­ly displayed recently in the "Oil and Gas Journal" 
• and other oil periodicals. 
Jules K. de la Vcrgnc is practicing architecture 
now in his own oftice. Curran Strcckfus. recent­
ly in from St. Louts, now is a full-fiedscd captain 
on the Streckfus, Mississippi River steamers, and 
was married Inst month. 
Austin Boyle. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Thomas Durkin, '37, Radio Station KROW. Bellcvue Hotel, San Francisco, President; Howard Parker, *J7, 219 State Bldff., San Francisco. Secrctarj*. 
The Northern California delegation, this year deprived of the opportunity of seeing the Irish in action, feel that their moral support had much to do with several of the closer decisions and are unable to account for the lowa-TJ.S.C. verdicts, particularly the latter. It really hurt in more 
•ways than one. 
We did have the pleasure of seeing many Notre Damo-coachcd teams in action. Back Shaw at Santa Clara, Slip Madigan at St. Mary's, and Jimmy Phclan way up in Seattle all contributed their bit of Rocknc lore for the benefit of the exiled Californians. In addition. Purdue, Ptort­land XT.. Alichigan State and Dayton made their appearances in the Bay Area leaving the impression that if you don't shift, it just ain't cricket. . . . 
Our talented ad agency executive, football col­umnist, and four-handicap golfer (well, anyway, it should be), Bert Dunne, crashed the very tough barrier of "Collier's" with a swell article on the Moraga Magician. Slip Madigan. After reading the little piece, we are still wondering if Sh'p, our fellow clubman, is a genius, a lug, or both. 
Tivo new members have been added to the club roster with the arrival of Greg Cashing and John Cello, last year's graduates. Greg came drifting through the Golden Gate on a company dredge, accompanied by a very sweet and attractive young wife who deserted Detroit and St. Mary's for this land of the sun and flowers. John stopped at Fresno to straw-boss the production of the strictly non-poisonous, slightly potent Roma Wines. . . . 
Tom Durkin recently completed a series o£ foot­ball broadcasts over station KROW, a Columbia outlet: and he is now selling coal wholesale to unsuspecting customers over a large California-Nevada tcrritorj-. .. . Elmer Wynne, the dash­ing, smashing, handsome lullback of the post-Four Horsemen era. is knocking them dead as a representative of several national magazines and a chain of radio stations. Kecne Fitzpatrick continues to supply us with the straight dope from the East and Midwest as the advertising representative of the Chicago "Trtb," N. Y. "News." and the Philadelphia "Inquirer." Louie PurccU picked Armistice Day as the right time to take unto himself an ever-loving wife . . . "we knew Lou was a right smart feller, but the logic exhibited in his date choosing was pure bril­liance. . . . 
We are already looking for\vard to the XJ.S.C. game at Los Angeles next year. Three in a row would be just a little too much for our pride. So we are at this time asking Elmer to concen­trate a bit harder on the Trojans. 
OREGON 
Harold J. Harstick. *25. 6603 N. E. Cleve­land Ave., Portland. President; Natt Mc­Dougall. Jr., *33. 43 S. W. First Ave.. Portland. Secretary-. 
Ed Sandstrom. MJV., '30. is instructor in the Department of Business at University of Port­land, serving under Arnold PeterscHmidt, de­partment head. Art Istvanovic, M.S.. *39, is in­structor in biology at University of Portland. 
Lincoln Pfcitfer, M.A., '40, after several months of social service work, has turned to a better post, railroading in western Idaho. Pete Sand-rock, '39, is with the Bonneville Power Adminis­tration, "on location" near Seattle, Wash. 

Incidentally. Robert L. (Matty) Matthews is turning out some swell football teams at Port­land U. Recently after several years of gunning for it, his team came through with its first major win by downing Slip Madigan's mighty St. Mary's Gaels, 14 to 12, in a real "upset." Two weeks earlier, his boys lost by that same score to Ore­gon State. 
PEORIA 
John Sloan, Jr.. '33, 233 N. Underbill St.. President; Robert E. Ward. *34, 1 Yankee Street Road. Chillicothc, IlL, Sccrctao*. 

November 9, the date of our last meeting, saw orderly confusion reign as one "Slim" Smith, not known to those present, was declared winner of a box of seats for the N. U. game. Al Gury. who fortunately had no part in the drawing, was the vendor of the winning number and the recipi­ent of two of the six tickets. The proceeds of the promotion swelled the club's scholarship fund. 
On Thanksgiving morning, Ennio Arboit, now^ coach at Spalding Institute in Peoria, was married in Oglesby and returned at noon to have his team present him with a 31 to 0 victory over local Woodruff High in a post-season game. 
Dutch Johnson, who once sped around the tracks at N.D., will lead the grand march at our Christ­mas Dance December 23 at the Jefferson Hotel in Feoria, 
Bob Wide, erstwhile Peorlan. aviator, engineer, and world-traveler, stopped off in Peoria recently en route from San Francisco to Baltimore, where he w-ill build airplanes for the Martin Corp. 
Harry Weakley will be chairman of a pre-Christmas meeting on December 14. Bob Ward. 
PHILADELPHIA 
Thomas E. Byrne, Jr., *34, '*^Vayside," 
Phocnixvitle, Pa.. President; Thomas F. J. 
Carroll, ex. '31. 1209 Lewis Tower Bldg., 
Secretary. 

John H. Nceson, Jr/s engagement has been an­nounced. The future Airs. Neeson is Miss Dolores Hayden of Philadelphia. Johnny, inci­dentally, received his LL.B. from Temple Uni­versity last June. 
Jack Matthews is now one of J. Edgar Hoover's super-sleuths, having joined the FBI last August. Joe O'Neill has deserted Philadelphia and is now employed in New York. Harold Duke has been taking a veo' active interest in the affairs of the Philadelphia Club since being transferred here from Fort Wayne, and is now serving as vice-president. 
Some of the familiar faces at our last meeting included those of Lindsay Phoebos. Hariy Fran­cis. Bill Castcllini, Tom BUsard. Dick McClure and Jim O'Donncll. 

The old guard—in point of Eer\-ice if not always in. point of years—of Bill Cooney, Joe Wackcr­man. Walt Ridley, John T. Neeson, Gerard Degan. Cliff Prodchl. Walt Phillip and Ed Bailey were all very much in evidence at our last meeting. Ed Bailey, incidentally, has purchased a piece of Pennsylvania at Rydal. where the nine Baileys (is the count right?) can romp. 
The club recently acquired a new member when DeLancey Davis. '37, was transferred from New York. 
John H. Nceson, '03, was again in charge of arrangements for the Army-Navy game which was held at Municipal Stadium. John is quite eminent in engineering circles, and—or so rumor has it—^was selected because of the engineering genius required to figure out how 120.000 people; overcoats, blankets and all; could be seated in 100,000 seats, each one of which is only about 12 inches wide. 
The club is just in the midst of the spade work necessary to the formation of a placement bureau. and the article in the ALUMNUS which X have just received is both instructive and interesting. 
T. E. Byrne, Jr. 

SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
William F. Bembrock. '35. 718 S. 8th St.. President; WilUam M. White. *21. 621 S. 7th St.. Secretary. 

Because of Thanksgiving, the Springfield Notre Dame Club held its monthly luncheon on the following Thursday. 
A son. Edward James, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Oliver F. Fields on November 7 in Spring­field. On November 20. Oliver was appointed Chief of the Bureau of Insurance, Division of IStotor Carriers, Department of Public Works and Buildings. 
Ray "Butch" Whipple has given up golf for the winter and has taken up bowling. On Novem­ber 8 he chalked up a score of 713 in the Capitol Recreation League. His single games were 234­255-244. 
John E. Cassidy, attorney general of Illinois, was the principal speaker at a Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus Banquet at the Pere Mar­quette Hotel in Peoria on Sunday evening, No­vember 12. Your correspondent was initiated on that day and is now a Fourth Degree member. 
Father W. p . Corcoran, C.S.C,, of South Bend, and Jack Elder, athletic director of the C.Y.O. in Chicago, talked at the St. James Trade School Football Banquet here on November 13. Father Corcoran spoke of the influence of football on the students at Notre Dame and other schools. Jack contrasted the football battles in the United States with the battles in Europe. 
Mike Seyfrit. states attorney of Carlinville Illi­nois, and Joe Boland. of Notre Dame, were invited to he on the program for the Cathedral football banquet to be held on November 29. 
The Springfield Notre Dame Club is making plans to assist in the C.Y.O. activities. 
BiU White. 

ST. LOUIS 
Gene E. Strong, ex. '34, 7527 Westmoreland St., Clayton. Mo.. President; Albert J. Ravarino. '35, 465X Shaw St , Secretary. 

Having missed the last issue of the ALUMNUS with a report. I should mention first the student luncheon, held the early part of September for the present group of Notre Dame boys attending Notre Dame. Approximately 40 were in attend­ance including BiU Hofer, '39. Mario Tonelli. '39, and ex-captain Jim McGoldrick. '39. who were in town fop a local All-Star game. 
With the beginning of the football season, a committee of Dr. Bert Coughlin. John Igoe. and Firmin Fusz worked out convenient all-expense trips to both the Kcrtl.wcsterr. and Southern California games. Also GO journeyed on the first and some 200 on*the latter. 
On November 13 a prize drawing was held for two all-expense trips to cither the Northwestern or the Southern Califomi.i games and fifty dollars spending money. This event brought about a suc­cessful goal — the birth of a scholarship fund. Bob Hellrung, headed a hard-working committee consisting of Dr. Coughlin, Dr. Slatt Weis, Dr. Crowley, and the president and secretary offices wc-x quite I'Usy also 
Dr. ConsUin and Harry O'Boyle each report a baby girl addition to their respective families. 
John RidEord^ of Sioux Qty, Iowa, has been moved to this city in charge of all of Armour & Company's beef operations. 
Lndwije Peterschmidt, of West Point, Iowa, is with the local Chevrolet organization and has joined our group. 
Jade Chevisny came out of the nearby oil fields to "best man" the Joe Yoch and Katherine Wahl wedding on Thankssi\'ing Day. 
Flans are being made to hold a Christmas 
Party and Dance in conjunction with the St. 
Louis boys at school, which will end our activ­
ities for the year 1939. 
Merry Christmas. 
Albert J. Ravarino. 

ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Fr«nk Bfiles» ex. *22, 1403 E. JIcKinley, South Bend. President; Clarence Harding, '25, Sonth Bend Tribune, South Bend, Sec­retary. 

ru-o of the finest pre-game smokers ever held by the Notra Darac Club of St. Joseph Valley were those which preceded the Northwestern and Southern California games, respectively. At­tracted by a stellar program of entertainment headed by Don Ameche, movie star, the crowd of 400 which packed the Oliver Hotel for the Southern California smoker set a new record for attendance. In addition to Don Ameche, the crowd was treated to fine addresses by Dr. Jock Sutherland. Arch Ward, sports editor of the Chi­cago "Tribune," Warren Brown and Congressman Vincent Harrington. 
Hie club owes a debt of gratitude to Elmer Layden for his partidpatlon in every smoker program this year and his assistance in procuring the score of coaches, celebrities and newspaper­men who appeared on smoker programs. Moving pictures of games of the previous week. loaned by the athletic department, were a highlight of every program. 
The smooth manner in which the program ran off at the Northwestern smoker was due to the splendid preparations made by Paul Bocbm and John McNamara, co-chairmen. 
The careful planning of Edward J. Mechan and Frank Coughlin, co-chairmen, made the Southern California smoker the success that it was. 
The 20th Annual Civic Testimonial Banquet, held Dec. 11 in the Notre Dame dining hall, will be history before this reaches you. Details of the banquet will be given in the next issue of tho ALUMNUS. Committee chairmen for the affair recently annotmced by club president Frank Miles are: Aaron H. Hnguenard, general chairman; Lonis V. Bmggner. speakers; Herbert E. Jones, tickets; Clarence W. Harding, publicity; Floyd Semrer, finance; A- Harold Wcbcr and J. W. Qainlan, arrangements; and M. Edward Doran and Joseph Donahue, guests. 
Clarence Harding. 

TRI-CITIES (Illmois-Iowa) 
George W. Vandcr Vcnnet, '32, 622 Union Bank Bldg.. Dubuque, Iowa, President; Edmund J. Mcapher, '21, 2153 30th St., Rock Island, nt , Sccretaiy. 

Wells Robison, '33, is now with the United States Engineers in Detroit, and I believe he is working in a downtown district office of the United States engineers. He and Mrs. Robison are again proud parents, but this time it is a little filrl named Mary Monica. Should anyone desire to -write them, the address is 8S9 Philip Street, Detroit, Michigan. 
An ironic situation took place the week-end of the Iowa game and in this way: — Mrs. Leo "Butch** Herbert has never seen Notre Dame go down in defeat. It is also a fact that Butch 
•would never break loose and buy Mrs. Herbert a nire dirysanthemum. At the Iowa game. Mrs, Herbert finally prevailed upon Butch to break loose and buy her a gorgeous chrysanthemum and since Notre Oame did lose. Batch now places the entire blame therefore upon the fact that he bought the chrysanthemum. 
To alle\*iate any idea that this Is not a very well-founded excuse, let us say that Butch appar­ently is carrying his superstitions over into the football field. In case you don't know. Butch Is president of the Rock Island County, Illinois, bowling league and refuses to touch a bowling ball unless he has on a particular white shirt. You undoubtedly have heard of this "rabbit foot" story — well, in Butch's case it is a white shirt. You probably have realized by this time that jraot* Mrs. Herbert will have to forego chrysanthemums at any games that she witnesses in the future. The poor girl! 
G. W, Vander Vennet. 

"Since you attended the dinner for Elmer Lay­den and Joe Boland and know all of the goings-on there, we will not set them down herein but will leave this job for you"—Epistle of Vandef Vennctt to the Dooleyonions, Chapter 1, Para­graph 4. 
My pal, Vander VennettI 
The creaking Doolcy memory recalls that: 

The Tri-Cities Club capped a day of superb hospitality with a complimentary dinner on Fri­day, November 10 in the Hotel Blackhawk, Dav­enport, for Coaches Layden and Boland and the entire Notre Dame contingent -traveling with the team to the Iowa game. President Vander Ven­nctt and Vice-President Joe Whalen joined forces to arrange what was declared by every visitor to be one of the most gracious events of many moons. A large delegation of alumni from the Tri-Cities area were present. 
A short speaking program followed the food, vrith the aforesaid Vandcr Vennet as M.C. Called upon for the customary "few remarks" were Frank E. Hering, South Bend, lay trustee of the University; Elmer Layden, Joe Boland. J. Arthur Haley, Eugene "Scrapiron" Young, Judge John Wallace, Calumet City, Illinois, Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., team chaplain for the trip, and William R. Dooley. (The best Dooley apologies to those, if any, that time and the Iowa City epi­sode of the following day have erased from memory.) 
Hosts of alumni were on hand all through the day with the keys of all three cities. Individu­ally the Managing Editor recalls, -with special thanks, the generous hospitality of Dick Swift. Hank Wurzer, Joe Whalen and the ever reliable correspondent, Vandcr Vennet. 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
Regis C McNamara, *33, 22 Rutherford St., Binghamton, President; James H. Hoifan, '34, 62 Mary St.. Binghamton, Secretary. 

Most of the Notre Dame men from the Triple Cities are still recuperating from the Army trip. Jim Hogan and John Donnelly were espe­cially glad to see many of the fellows of the class of '34 at the reunion that Friday night; including Frank l^IcGuran, Joe Sdimidt, Tom Dalton, Joe Carey, and Bob Dcvine. 
Bill Ycager, '34, a chemist at Agfa Ansco Cor­poration, takes every Saturday and Sunday off to go hunting. Here is a big game hunter in the making. 
Regis McNamara, '32, has been transferred from Binghamton to Woodstock, New York. Regis is the resident engineer there on the Na­tional Youth Adminstration project which is to be a "Work Experiment Center." Training in craft work is to be taught, and youths from all over the state are to be sent there. 
Dan McAvoy, '22, has been re-elected district attorney for Broome County. 
Joe (Phonse) HeConnack, '33, has moved back to Mishawaka. Mrs. McCormack is a former Mishawaka girl. 
Peter Wacks, '30, and Jerome Parker, '30, (former manager of the Notre Dame Glee Club) had a little get-together during the Notre Dame-Army week-end. Fete is with the F.B.I., and Jerry is manager of the Centre Club, New York. 
John Murtihy, '35, is reporting for the Bing­
hampton "Press" and Bill Ayres, '34, is city 
editor of the Binghamton "Sun." 
Jim Hogan. 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) 
Joseph R. Schroeder, '31. 604 Builders Ex­diangc BIdg., 3Iinneapoli5, President; Gerald 
E. McKay, '30, 3430 Dupont Ave., S.« Minneapolis, Secretary. 

An enthusiastic group of the club met on No. vember 3 for a general business meeting and ticket drawing. An unexpected pleasure was a visit from Ray Kelly of Detroit, newly elected head of the American Legion. Mr. Kelly was in St. Paul on Legion business but took out time to come out and see us all and give us a short but inspiring talk. "Every member present greatly appreciated his presence. All had a chance to meet him personally, and some of his classmates were present. 
The awarding of the football tickets for Notre Dame-Southern Cal game took place with John-Maclnnes, a nephew of Brother Jack Yelland, '30, the winner. John is only eight years old and chose to take the option of $SD cash, which will be the start of his nest egg for the future as a Notre Dame student. The sale was very satis­factory and a nice profit -was forthcoming. Bob Tegeder won the $25 cash prize for disposing of the greatest number of books. 
Plans for the Christmas formal were completed. The Flame Room of the Radisson Hotel, Minne­apolis, is the place, and the date December 30 (Saturday). 
G. E. McKay. 

WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
John J. Ryan, '26, 6345 Morrowfield Ave., Pittsburgh, President; J. Vincent Burke, Jr., G938 Edgcrton Ave., Pittsburgh, Sec­retary. 

As is the case in any other city where Notre Dame plays, the chief topic of conversation this fall has been their visit to Pittsburgh for the purpose of playing Carnegie Tech. This year was no exception so far as activity was concerned and gave our club possibly the biggest boom it has had in years. The club had a smoker the night before the game at the Hotel William Penn, which Tivas highly successful, and which, strange as it may seem, showed a net profit. It was at­tended by some hundred fellows, among whom were many of the boys from out of town, as well as a number of guests who were from other schools. Among the latter was Leo Kelly, a stu­lent at Duquesne University and a very close friend of Rev. Blanrice Powers, C.S.C, of Hob' Cross College in Brookland. D. G. 
' The luncheon the Thursday before the game was a sight to behold, being attended by some 30 fel­lows, which is practically an all-time record. Among those present were the following: Paul Hartman, George Kingsley, Bob Smith, Paul Gocttler, Joe Washko. Bill McCullough and Ber­nie Conroy. Jnnie Wise was present renewing old acquaintances, and informed us he will now be permanently located in Pittsburgh. The club distributed 15 50-yard line seats for the game. TVue to form, there was none won by any club member. Eddie Byrnes, Turk Meinert and Vince Sweeney are turning over a new leaf and becom­
ing re^lar attendants at the luncheons. Bill Steitz was also present for the annual drawing of tickets. 
I saw Ed Sarins from "Wheeling the day of the game and he reported that quite a group had come up from that city. 
There is not much doing in the cluh now. It has not yet been decided, as this is written, whether or not we w^ill have a Christmas dance but, as in the past, the dance will probably be arranged and the members and officers notified 
in due time. Vincc Burke 
P.S.: After 1 had written this, I met Hugo "Izzy" lacorctti who was pust back from New York and the Army game. He reports that he Saw a number of old classmates at the various affairs. Jack JacRcr, *33, is now in Pittsburgh with a hosien* concern, and is roomins; with Joe O'Rourke, Both were going out to the North­western game. Leo O'DonncIl has been very busy lately but is beginning to como back to the luncheons. Jim Devlin, '33, has become a regular a (Tain. V. B. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
William B. Jones. *28, Dcpt. of Justice, Boom 2G32. President; Andrew Auth, '34, 405 Sixth St.. S.W., Secretary. 

I have just arrived home from a Communion Breakfast held this morning (November 19) at Holy Cross Seminary which was attended by 35 .members of the club. Everyone will agree with me that the Mass and music were awe-inspiring, and the steak on the menu for breakfast made a huge hit with the boys. Ed Kilmcry did a fine job of the arrangements, and we are all looking forward to another Communion Breakfast in the very near future. 
The November meeting held at the Raleigh Hotel was presided over hy Vice-President Tom McKevitt due to the absence of President Bill Jones. The speaker for the evening. Rev. Robert White, dean. Law School of Catholic University, was very interesting, and the members enjoyed his talk immensely. Guests at the November meeting were Lieutenant Blakesly and Comman­der Lovett. The latter, who is in charge of press relations, gave us some very interesting sidelights on the TJnited States and the European situation. 
Jim Armstrong, '25, editor of the ALUMNUS, was in town. Some of the dub membership met him for luncheon at the Raleigh. Sorry not to have been there. 
Notre Dame-Navy Alumni Joint Luncheon—• October 21 on the occasion of the Navy-Notre Dame football game. Alumni of both schools enjoyed the luncheon and broadcast of the game. Needless to say that Notre Dame boys enjoyed it a little bit more than the Navy men. Kinklc of Notre Dame and Stimson of Navy made all arrangements. Honorary guests were Commander Chappell, Ambrose OTonnclI and Frederick W. Wile. 
Deaths. Julian Friant, honorary member of club, was special assistant to Secretary of Agri­culture. 
Visitors to Washington, D. C : George Vlk in from Tulsa where he is end coach at Tulsa U. Gus Dorais and Bud Bocringer in for Catholic University-Detroit game. Larry iSIullins and Dick Pfcfferic are expected in town with the XiOyola team of New Orleans. 
Lewis J. Marphy, '23, national commander of Disabled Veterans, was in Washington not so long ago. News is around that Carl Christian-son is a proud father of a lovely little girl, bom October 21—Sarah Elizabeth. Our past president, Charlie Farris» had a son, Michael, bom October 
28. Grood for you, Charlie—we have reserved a job for Michael when he grows up ; he can be president of the Washington club any time he is ready. 
The Washington Club is planning to have a dance on New Year's Eve, to be held at 2400 Sixteenth Street. N.W., — Price, 56-00 per couple. Dance and Breakfast — 10 P. M. till 3 A. M. — The Washington boys are expecting to have a gala Notre Dame celebration and expect to be able to have a get-together with all the students coming to D. C. for Christmas holidays. What about youse s^ys? 
Ambrose O'ConncIl entertained the officers of 
the club at his Mai'flower apartment, November 
11, to listen to the broadcast of the Notre Dame-
Iowa game. Mr. O'Connell can certainly fill the 
position of any diplomat—his party was a very 
nice one. The officers appreciate his whole­
hearted support, and his interest is truly sincere 
and genuine. 
Andrew C. Auth. 

WEST VIRGINIA 
James A. Malloy. '30, 3824 Staunton Ave., Charleston, President; John Cackley, *37, 1521 Lee St., Charleston, Sccrctarj'. 

The club's annual football "special" to the Southern Gal game had approximately 80 fans this year. Vincent Rcishman, Judge A. P. Hnd­son, James A. Malloy, Bill Kcnncy, and the writer cooperated in working out vanotis details for the trip. 
Paul Smith's Sacred Heart high school squad recently completed a most successful grid sea­son. Handling a green and inexperienced team. Smith and his Irish won six, tied two, and lost two. It was the best record ever compiled in local parochial school athletics. 
Harry Becker, former varsity guard, is a fre­

quent visitor in Charleston. He is employed by 
a prominent brewery. 
John Cackley. 
CHICAGO PLACEMENT (Continued from Page 77) 

group five men he wanted to interview. We, in turn, communicated with those, hoys and directed them where to go. By handling the matter in that way, we saved considerable time for the employ­ment manager. Then, too, it gave us an occasion to make a personal contact and to explain our set-up to the employment manager. 
"Within the past few days, we have sent out approximately 200 announce­ments to leading companies in Chicago, and we expect to send out an additional 200 within the next week. 
"We are preparing a summary of all of the applications on file at the present time and we are going to furnish a copy of the summary to those members of the club who in the past, through their con­tacts, have been able to place men. 
"A card index is kept of all companies that we contact either personally or by mail, and a record of our relations with them. 
"Our plan is to not only take advan­tage of the contacts of the members of our club, but also to advertise the Bu­reau in other ways. Upon checking with the Placement Bureaus of other univer­sities here in Chicago, we find that we are following the same plan as they did in the beginning. 
"Since April 1, 1939, 39 boys have filed applications with the Bureau. Of that number, 11 have secured employ­ment either through their own efforts or tlirough the efforts of the Bureau, leav­ing 28 still on our list. Of the remaining 28, eight of them have neglected to come in and fill out an application and they have been advised that if they fail to do so within the next few days, their name will be stricken from the list. They may have obtained satisfactory employment, but-they have not, as yet, let us know. That leaves 20 applicants, and of that number, 16 have been sent out from time to time on interviews and eight of them have good prospects of a job through the Bureau. 
"All of the applicants are urged to take advantage of the University Man Marketing Clinic conducted by DePauI University of Chicago, every Wednesday night. This Clinic is free and the pur­pose of it is to show the types of letters that secure interviews and why certain types of letters do not secure interviews. The purpose is also to show how an applicant should conduct himself when interviewing prospective employers. 
"You will be interested in the follow­ing paragraph taken from the first reply that we received this morning to the announcements sent out a few days ago: 
" 'If any of these men are comparable to the type of football players Notre Dame turns out, they certainly ought to be able to do a satisfactory job for any employer and should anything develop in any of our lines where we may be able to use the services of any of your applicants, we shall be glad to bring it to your attention.'" 
1937 Legof Direcfory 
(Additions and Changes) 

ILLINOIS Chicago, 
SCHIAVONE. Leo V.. A.B., "32 
III W. Washington Street 
Smie MI7 
INDIANA 

LaPorle 
DALEY. John P.. B.CS, 37, U_B.. '38 Odd Fellows BMg. 
» » »
THE ALUMNI 
Engagemenfs 
Announcement has been made of the following engagements: 
Miss Elise P. Smith and WUliam W. Corr, '32, of San Francisco. 
Miss Eleanor Donnelly and Richard A. Rilcy, '37, of Westport, New York. 
Marriages 
Miss Margaret JuHa Donley and Wilfrid T. Dwyer, *23, were married, October 30, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Margaret Anne Goodman and Harold A-Sbanaficld, *27, were married, November 23, in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Kathryn Angela Wahl and Joseph R. Yoch, '29, took place, November 23, in St. Louis. 
Miss Ellen Lucille Lalor and Francis E. Curran, *30, were married, November 4, in Oregon, "Wis­consin. 
Miss Mary Louise Foytho and Dr. Thomas F. Tarasovic, '32, were married, November 23, in Bridgeport, Connecticut. 
The marriage of Miss Katherine McCarthy and Vincent E. Tarley, '32, took place, November 25, in Middletown, Connecticut. 
The marriage of Miss Ann Dwj-er and Natt McDougall. Jr., '33, took place, October 7, in Portland, Oregon. 
Miss Louise Broman and William F. Lewis, *34, were married. May 6, in Oak Park, Illinois. 
The marriage of Miss Grace Marjorie Imler and Charles J. Schwarz, *34. took place, June 14, in Paterson, New Jersey. 
Hie marriage of Miss Berenice Brennan and 

J. Albert Smith, '34, took place. September 16, in Indianapolis. Among the attendants were Michael Fox, *34, and Thomas J. Umphrey, '34. 
Miss Madge Donovan and Charles R. Montgom> ery, '35, were married, November 23, in North Braddock, Pennsylvania. 
Miss Mary Virginia McCarthy and John J, Cashin, '36, were married, November 16, in Syracuse, New York. 
Miss Doris Jenkins and Norman B. Conley, '36, were married, November 23, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 'William A. Lieser, '37, was best 
The marriage of Miss Mary Jane McCombs and Harry F. Kochler, '37, took place, October 29, in South Bend. 
Miss Dolores Aimone and Ennio Arboit, '38, were married, November 23, in Oglesby, Illinois. 
Miss Helen M. Schneller and John M. Foley, '38, were married, June 2G, in Laurium, Michi­gan. Paul Foley, '39, was best man. Among the attendants were Lawrence B. Danbom, '37, Marr Condon, '31, and Stephen D, Condon, '39. 
Miss Beverly Orem and Robert P. Leonard, '38, were married, November 11, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Helen Muriel Tumock and Nicholas C Amrhein, Jr., '39, were married, November 11, in South Bend. 
Miss Ann Carolyn Russell and Bemard S. Good, *39, were married, December 2, in Hiver Forest, Illinois. 
Miss Helen Courtney and Richard Puhl, ex. '39, were married, November 24, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Miss Jo Ann Bevier and James C. Conch, ex. 
•40, were married, November 23, in South Bend. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. Daniel J. Carr. '21, announce the birth of a daughter. Julienne, on October 6, in Greensburg, Pennsylvania. 
A daughter was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Ray­mond Schnbmehl, '21, on November 14, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. James E. Armstrong, '25, an­nounce the birth of a son, Douglas E., on No­vember 16. in South Bend. 
A son, 'William Thomas, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William Schombnrg, *25, on November 28, in "Westport. Connecticut. 
Mr. and Itlrs. Edwin L, Ryan, '27, announce the birth of a daughter, Mary Ann, on June 20, in Chicago. 
A son, Nicholas George, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. George A- Scheuer, '28, on November 19, in Detroit, Michigan. 
Mr. and Mrs. Walter Mulflar, '29. announce the birth of a son, John Edward, on February 20, in Indiana Harbor, Indiana. 
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. I>onard W. Condon, '32, on October 22. in Rockford, Illinois. 
A son. John Edward, was bom to Dr. and Mrs. 
R. E. Glaser, '32, in October, in Brookville, In­diana. 
Twin daughters, Alice and Anne, were bom to Mr. and Mrs. K. Daniel Maloy, '32. on Sep­tember 28, in Clyde, New York. 
Mr. and Mrs. Norbcrt Schaller, '32, announce the birth of a son, Robert Joseph, on October 21, in Hammond, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur T. Rnppe, '33, announce the birth of a son, Arthur Thomas, Jr.. on Octo­ber 27. in South Bend. 
A son, William Francis, IH, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. William F. O'Brien, Jr., *34, on August 9, in Bridgeport. Connecticut. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin J. Holman, '34, announce the birth of a daughter, Helen Gertrude, on No­vember 25, in Leavenworth, Kansas. 
A daughter, Elizabeth, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Arthur Cronin, Jr.. '37, on November 10, in Detroit, Michigan. 
A son, Francis Patrick, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Sirs. Francis P. Kelly. '37, on October 30. in Joltct. Illinois. 
A son, John Patrick, Jr., was bom to Mr. and Mrs. John P. Dalej*, '37, on August 25, in La Porte, Indiana. 
Mr. and Mrs. George Lanre. '38, announce the birth of a daughter. Shirley Ann, on July 2. in Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
Deaths 
Eugene F. Arnold, LL.B. '78. A.B. '83, AM. '90, Washington, D. C, prominent as an attorney. in fraternal organizations and as an author, and for four years a member of the law faculty at Notre Dame, died in Washington on November 15. 
Mr. Arnold was • awarded Georgetown's first master of legal literature degree in 1879. In the following year he studied further at Columbia University. New York Cib*. and later studied abroad. A leading member of the Washington, 
D. C, bar, Mr. Arnold was also a former mem­ber of the supreme council of the Knights of Columbus. He was the author of "Catholic History in Washington," "Travels Abroad" and "Essays and Poems." 
In sending to the "Alumnus" the news of Mr. Arnold's death. Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C.. '88. former president of the University, said: "Eugene was well known to those who studied at our Holy Cross College, Washington, for he used to come up to see us frequently. He never could hear enough about Notre Dame, or get through talking about the big men and the big doings of his time here." 
Rev. William Charles Hengcn, Litt.B. '97, Min­neapolis, died suddenly in his home on November 11 following a heart attack, according to word received by his daughter, a teacher in the public schools of Mishawaka. Wliile a student at Notre Dame, the deceased clergyman served in St. Paul's Episcopal FVocathedral, Mishawaka. and was made a priest of the Episcopal Church in 1900. 
James MidiacI Fitzgerald, Bethany. 111., a stu­dent at Notre Dame in 1901, was killed in an automobile accident on October 14, according to the tragic word sent by his son, Maurice. 
The "Religious Bulletin" of October 31 asked for prayers for Rev. Morgan Shccdy, LL.D. '06. of Altoona. Pa., recently deceased. 
Gerald E. Schneider, Detroit, a student in 1916* 17, died on November 18. 
John K. Tingley. BJVrch. '35, Norwich. Conn-died on November 20 after an illness of two weeks with a severe infection. Surviving him are his wife and an infant daughter and his mother and two sisters. 
An able architect, John had been employed since his graduation by the firm of Cudworth and Thompson, of Norwich, and was responsible for the design of several business structures in his home city. He w-as also a water color artist of note and his pictures were widely commended. 
Ihlail returned by the Post Office made known to the Alumni Office the death of Phil J. Doherty* Jr., New York City, a former student elected to the Alumni Association in 1930. , 
The "Alumnus" extends sincere sympathy to Thomas A. McLaughlin, '16, upon the death of his father; Raymond, ex. '21, Gilbert, ex. *21, Bernard D., ex. '33, and Arthur C. Keeney, '22, uiran the death of their father; Rev, Joseph Kroiecik, C.S.C. *30, upon the death of his father; James J., *30, and Ra>'mond E. Dcely. *36. upon the death of their father; John J. Dcgarmo, '36, upon the death of his father; Charles F. Osbom. '38, upon the death of his father; Robert J. Donahue, '35, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
P. E. Burke, *88. 301
Before 1890 Camp, New Orleans, La. 
A. MacXamara. *97,
1890-99 flint J. Joseph's Sanitarium, 
Mount Clemens, Michigan. 
Under a youthful picture of Mike Donahue, the South Bend "Tribune" recently carried this happy story: "Ample evidence that it pays to kick clover around a golf course is presented by Mike Donahue, local gas and gag man, who was hon­ored by the Notre Dame golf team Wednesday. Mike has followed Irish golf matches season after season and spent the rest of his time looking for lost balls. This trophy, presented by Rev. George Holdcrith, C.5.C., is given for faithful attendance at practice. Donahue promises to be on hand for the 1940 campaign. He will spend the winter shouting 'fore*." 
The picture shows Mike holding the handsome trophy presented by Father Holdcrith, 'IS. 
Chris Fitzgerald, Havana, recently expressed, in one of his periodic inspiring letters, the hope that Bay Kelly. '15, national comamnder of the American Legion would be able to visit Cuba in pursuance of the policy of several former A.L. commanders. 
1 AA A AVI Robt. E. Proctor, *04.. Monger ITUU^U t Building. Elkhart, Indiana. 
Two sons of Spalding Slevin,. Peoria, Illinois, will be on the campus next year, according to recent word from the father, who is president of the Slevin Sales Company; dealers in general shipping supplies, 807 Lehmann Building. Spal­ding's oldest brother, the late Richard Spalding Slevin, was graduated in 1896 and was valedic­torian of his class. 
VAA C A O ^^ -Thomas E. Burke. C.S.C.. I 7U9"U 7 '07. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
Edward' P. Carville. governor of Nevada, re­cently entered the syndicated column of West­brook Ffegler. Upon visiting Reno, Pegler said: "I was received, too, with distinguished courtesy by the governor, Mr. Car\*ille, an alumnus of Notre Dame, class of '09. . . ." 
m i A I^^'> ^L ^ Moriarty. 1900 Euclid 
I 7 I U Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
10 1 1 ^' ^ Steers. 1666 First National Bank 171 1 Building, Chicago, Illinois. 
B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth St. Pitts­1912 burgh. Pennsylvania. 
|A| 9 Paul R. Byrne, University Library, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The art of writing from its early stages in the stone age up to the time of jeweled book covers in the time of Queen Elizabeth was re­cently described in a lecture by Paul R. Byrne, head librarian at Notre Dame, before the stu­dents of Central Catholic High School, South Bend. Paul's talk was in observance of National Book Week. 

^Ql ^ Frank H. Hayes, 406 Bank of Amer^ I 7 1 1 ica Building, Anaheim, California. 
James E. Sanford, 1324 Parwell Ave.,

1915 Chicago, Illinois. 
Pete Beczkiewicz was chairman of the annual observance of Armistice Day in South Bend. The benediction at the ceremony was given by Rev. Leo J. Hciser, C.S.C., '02, of the University, and the principal address by Professor Pat Manion. 
19 1 A Timothy P. Galvin. First Trust Build­ing. Hammond. Indiana. 
^Q1 ^ Edward J. McOskt 104 So. Union
J._ McOskcr, St.. Elgin. Illinois. 
BACK TO LIFE: 1917 ALUMNUS 
Until last summer the Alumni Office record for William J. Egan. M.E, '17. carried the brief, but alt-inclusive, phrase "Killed in Action." Now the same record says that Bill Egan should lie addressed as Major William J. Egan, F.A., 414 Federal Building. Columbus, Ohio. Back of all this is a story—a genuine 
O. Henry one. , 
*\Vhen Major Robert B. Riordan, '24. res^s­trar of the University, was enrolled at Camp Knox, Kentuckj-, last summer to serve his two weeks of active duty as a member of the Or­ganized Reser\-es he was assigned as assistant to the chief gunnery instructor of the Held Artillery camp. This immediate superior was one Major Egan and Major Egan, Bob dis­covered, was another Notre Dame alumnus. 
Subsequent investigation di\-ulged the fact that Iklaior Egan was none other than Wil­liam J. Egan, '17. and that, for some reason still not defini'.ely uncovered, he had been recorded at Notre Dame, through all the years since the World War, as "killed in action." 
Major Egnn has served as on officer in the United States Army ever since the World War and has been stationed at Army posts throughout the world. At present, with his wife and son, he resides in Columbus, where he is in charge of the Organized Reserves. 

Henry Brosnahan has changed his managership of the International Harvester Company from Minot, North Dakota, to Eau Claire, Wisconsin, according to his recent note. 
|Q| Q John A. Lcromer, 1110 Eighth Ave., I 7 I O Escanafaa, Michigan. 
"When Dudley Pearson, of Milwaukee, was on the campus for the Southern Cal game and the Old Hmers' reunion, he said that the well-known Paul E. Edgrcn is manager for the Commercial Investment Trust in Milwaukee and doing fa­mously. 
^A| Q Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street, 1 7 1 7 Gary. Indiana. 
1 QOi\ ^*^° ^* Ward, 1012 Black Bldg.. Los 
I 7^ W Angeles, California. 
The dope from Detroit just reached the Alumni Office that Marce Vcrbicst gave up his former insurance connection some months ago but still is right out in front as president of the Mid-Ameri­can Insurance Company, 154 Bagley Avenue. 
•|A««V Dan W. Duffy, 1600 Terminal Tower. I 7 A I Cleveland, Ohio. 
109 ^ Gerald Ashe. Omaha Athletic dub, I a ^Mm Omaha, Nebraska. 
Ibis is a note from Brother Finbarr, C.S.C. of the Treasurer's Office of the University: "Just had word that Jim Jones, a graduate of about 20 years ago. was re-elected coroner of Canons-burg, Pa., by a majority of 5,986." 
Special concern was felt at the University and by the Congregation after the recent German-Russian invasion of Poland because several mem­bers of the Order were thought to he in the in­vaded territory. Recent word through Rome,­however, is to the effect that all are safe. Two of the priests in Poland were Rev. Hilarr J* Faszck. aS.C., '22, and Rev. Joseph AL Kmiccik, &S.a. '30, together with Rev. B. J. Sztuczko. 
C.S.C. Holy Cross Brothers in Poland were Brother M. Hormisdas and Brother Roman. 
Juno Kinerk, '22. is with the Federal Depart­ment of Investigation and spent a part of his vacation in South Bend the latter part of No­vember. 
100 9 ^*<il ^* Cutner. 17 Cornell Road,
17A d West Hartford. Connecticut. 
Rev. John Cavanangh, C.S.C.. assistant pro­vincial of the Order, was one of the principal speakers at the recent catechetical congress of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine held in Cincinnati. He praised the spirit of Knate Rockne as an antidote for "false ideologies of the present era." 
lA^A •'' '^' Hayes, Wm. J. Pedrick and 17A* t Co.. International Bldg., Rockefeller Center, New York City. 
Behind alt the promotion for Studebaker cars which you run into everywhere these days, one of the main figures is Gene Noon, of South Bend. the leading light of the Studebaker Sales Pro­motion Department. Gene, frequently chaperoned by Ed Meehan, '20, is a frequent attendant at campus affairs. 
P. Hurley. 2083 Brookdale Road.

1925 John 
Toledo, Ohio. 

From John Hurley: 
"A letter from Wally Cyr was the only thing that prevented this *25 column from being a total blank: 
" *Jim Armstrong must have used an old mail­ing list when he sent out his letter about George Chao. so I haven't heard the particulars, but here is my contribution to help out in whatever the emergency is.' 
" 'Meeting you at Notre Dame last June gave me an opportunity to account for myself—and I am still located in Stamford, Connecticut, work­ing for the Yale & Towne Mfg. Co.. promoting the famous Yale door closers.* 
" 'The visit at Notre Dame was so very pleas­ant that I am going to try hard to be there for Commencement next year.' 
"We have $2 besides the SlOO we have already mailed George Chao. and any late contributions w^itl be mailed along %vith this. 
"Now that 'the drive' for George is over, let's not let down on the news because don't forget we have our 15th reunion in June and let's hear from you boys from the far comers who plan to be back. Your coming will help make up some other fellow's mind." 
V AO X J^nies A. Ronan. 127 Dearborn SL. I 7& 0 Chicago. Illinois. 
A special "Dolmage Hospital" edition of the Buffalo Center, Iowa, "Tribune" tells with justi­able pride of the magnificent new hospital just opened there by Dr. G. F. Dolmage and his son. Dr. G. H. Dolmage, '26. Complete and modem in every sense, the new institution is unsurpassed anywhere in the country in a community of com­parable size. 
After finishing at Notre Dame in 1926, George. the son, remained on the campus to teach English for three years. He was graduated from the University of Iowa Medical School in 1937 and served his intcmeship in the Denver Ci^ Hos­pital, Denver, Colorado. He has been associ­ated with his father since February, 1939. 
m 097 ^°^P^ ^L Boland, Athletic Office, I 7^ / Notre Dame, Indiana. 
From Joe Boland: 

"For a publisher, yon have the darnedest habit of demanding copy at the wrong times. Now, if you wanted some dope on TJ.S.O., I might be able to eivG you a description of one of a coach's best, A-1 nightmares—but no; you've got to have some­thing about those old evys from '27! 
"Most of them have escaped the crutches of debilitude so far. but thinning hair and thicken­ing girths mark such noble characters as Elmer Bcstcn, ex-pitcher of renown, now practising law in Davenport, Iowa. Seen with Elmer at the Davenport meeting, a fine dinner the night before the Iowa game sponsored by the Tri-City alumni, was Leo Herbert, mentioned in worse veree in our last effort: Gene Young, ex .'27, ex-football coach (the man saw the light!), ex-track man, and still 'Scrapiron' to all of us, gave a pretty talk at said dinner, and reminded your scrivener that said Scrap's light has been hid nnder the bushel long enough. Training all sports teams at the University, he has shared much of the credit for the physical condition of N.D/s athletic teams. Right now. he's trying to peddle paper-shell iwcans, grown on his own Mississippi farm, to sundry members of • the coaching staff, all of whom faintly sus^ioct he has tincture of benzoin in them! 
**Ed AIcLaughlin made the Iowa game. :n com­pany with Judge John Wallace, who claims both '27 and *28 as his classes, just so he can come to Commencement more fretiuently. Mac is doing all right in law, in Chicago, judging from his contour: missing no meals!. 
"Seen from a distance, holding down 50-yard line seats at the Iowa game, just before the boom dropped, were Tom Nash and the elusive Joe Delia Maria—^now this column can really rest: we've located the wraithlike ex-trackman, and can testify that he still looks as he did of yore. 
"Don't know whether we reported diecldng on John l^TcManmon. now of the state of Massa­chusetts Highway Department, at the Army game? He still has the roses in his checks and the wisecrack on his tongue. Art Monaco, seen on the fly under the reaches of Yankee stadium seems as healthy as ever: sends his regards to all of '27. 
**CharIcy Judge, now selling for Anheuser-Busch, made the grade in the Army week-end visits, and reports everything well with the Judges in New York. Frank Mastcrson regis­tered with Scrap Young on the same week-end: married, Frankie is practising law in New Jersey, and betweon-times keeps an eye on that old two-miler, Joe Nulty, who now is probation officer in his home city of Newark, New Jersey, , 
"Harry O'Boylo, back with Chevrolet, we un­derstand, in St, Ixiuis. checked in to Herb Jones and expected to visit the campus for the U.S.C. game; John Halpin. now with International Har­vester in Chicago, was on campus for the North­western game. 
"The ever-retiring Bart McHogli, now head­quartering in Cincinn.ati, dropped in to talk over a few 'big deals' with the boys on the campus the day before the Northwestern game: Bart thinks the old news-stand in the Main Building was much better equipped and stocked than the modem inheritors of his old 'no-credit' policy! 
"And that ahovt winds up for this section of scrivening: you'll make allowances I know, for the time of year (this is written three days before the U.S.C. game) and if there are incoberencics in the above, or information missing, consider yourselves lucky! Adios, amigos—^until Doolcj sends me another writ of habeas corpus!" 
John Ohncmus is with the Studebaker Corpora­tion, South Bend, as editor of its excellent em­ployee paper, "The Studebaker Spotlight." 
Bob Stcphan. here for the Southern Cal game, was just a bit tardy in reporting to the "Alum­nus" the birth of his fourth daughter, Mary Bob, on September 16, 1938. Bob is back in Chicago with U, S. Gypsum and doing sales work, after a spell in the New York office in the credit end of the business, 
1 OO Q ^otiis F. Buckley, 90S E. Cedar St., I 7^ 0 South Bend. Indiana. 
From Lou Buckley: 
"The only news your reporter has been able 
to pick up during the month is with respect to 
two of the bachelors in the class. Mnce Walsh, 
who is farming near MonticcIIo, III., visited me 
over the Northwestern game week-end. I waa 
sorrj' to hear that Vince's father died a year ago. 
"Troy Bonner answered my appeal, made in the last ALUMNUS, with an interesting letter from Tupelo, Miss., where he is in the cotton brokerage business. Troy, unlike Vince Walsh, talked like he is likely to remain a perennial bachelor. Troy seems to get around the country, having spent most of last winter in California. Sorry to hear that he had the misfortune of los­ing his mother and sister last July. Thanks for the letter, Troy, and try to get back to the cam­pus for a visit soon. 
"Father Mulreany came through in fine style, as the thirteenth guest columnist to assist j'our re­porter. Thanks, Padre Andy, for the favor. I am sure the fellows will appreciate your con­tribution. 
"Although our class is made up for the most part of men in the East and Mid-West, I am try­ing to pick the guest writers on a geographical basis as much as possible this year. As you know, we have had little news since graduation from the fellows in the West. We are selecting Ed Frcitas of San Raphael. Calif., to give us the low-down in the next issue on some of the men on the Pacific coast including Ed Cunningham, Joe Daley, John 'Sam* Dunne. Dave Gibson and Mcr^-j-n Aggcler." 
From Father Mulreany; 
"My co-workers as listed in the November issue have failed me, but 1*11 try to make up for this loss by telling you something of the parish and the few N.D. men I meet occasionally. 
"Sacred Heart parish is the little Notre Dame of the South, Without boasting, I can truthfully say our kids take most of the honors sdiolasti­cally and in athletics. We have basketball teams of grade school kids 55 and 59 inches in height which are fair copies of the N.D. varsity. In a few years these same teams will be aided by young Mike and 'Moon* MulHns. sons of big Aloon Blollins. '31. Incidentally, Moon has had his nps and downs with his Loyola squad this season splitting even in eight contests. Young Mike is bowling them over in the kindergarten of Sacred Heart, and Moon, Jr., is making his way in the first grade. 
"We have almost 1,200 children in grammar and high school. The girls' high school basket­ball squad has been city champs for three years. The C.Y.O. boys* and girls' basketball squads have been winning city and diocesan champion­ships consistently. Our C.Y.O. boxing team man­ages to fill our outdoor arena monthly and re­tains most of the trophies awarded. 
"This past summer I took two teams as far north at St. Louis to enter the Veterans of Foreign Wars softball tournament. Both the boys' and girls' team landed in the semi-finals. The trip recalled to mind my old job of man­aging the Notre Dame Glee club, editions of '27 and '28. 
"Father John Ryan, '06. after 30 years teaching and prefccting at Notre Dame (rector of Lyons in '27 and *28), is with us at Sacred Heart and doing a great job. It did not take long to sell him the South. 
"Haven't seen many of the boys since the party held here on Universal Notre Dame Night. Went to see the local pride, Jimmy Perrin, light­weight, box a Chicago boy. Was guest of Cyp Sporl, '28, who is corraling the insurance busi­ness of New Orleans. I run into Bolan Burke, *28, practising attorney, at meetings of the Celtic Club—we have a good many sons of Ireland in the South. 
"Harry Mehre, '22, and his assistant Chuck Jaskwhich. '33, dropped in the rectory early in the season to renew old acquaintances. They are doing great work at Ole Miss. The only game they lost was to the powerful Tulane team. 
"George Haucnstcin, ex. '28, of Hatticsburg, Miss., calls on me occasionally. George is trav­elling through this section of the South for a fer­tilizer company. 
"Recei**ed a letter from Fred Wagner, '29, my old sidekick in the quartet, who is selling insur­ance in llffin, Ohio. Fred informed me that Bill Oorc, '30, was on his way south with his bride, and I was to entertain the ne^vlyweds, 
"Spent a night with the MulHns, playing bridge and harfng a great time with their five kids. The 'Item* carried a fine picture of the kids dressed in Loyola uniforms with the caption 'Loyola's last line of defense.* 
"The South is looking forward to January 1 and the Sugar Bowl game. It promises to be the best contest among the Bowl games. If any of the boys get do^vn for the game, or for Mardi Gras, I invite them to look me up at 139 South Lopez Street or at the Orleans Parish prison where I spend most of my time. I'm sure I can find a fe^v spare hours to show them New Or­leans." 
A tracer from the Alumni Office was successful in tracking down the information that Dr. John Edward Franklin can now be reached at 444 East 66lb Street, New York CSty. 
News uncovered on the Pittsburgh front in­cludes the item that John McSorley is continu­ing one of his main interests of other days by acting as coach of the University of Pittsburgh hockey team. 
1Q9 0 Joseph P. McNamara. Attorney Gcn-I M^M cral Office, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Bemie Loshbaugh, '29, took time out from his architectural duties in Washington to attend the Southern Cal game and visit his parents in South Bend. 
109 A ^o^ci^ Hellrung, Humboldt Bailding, 
I 70 U St, Louis, Missouri. 
From Bob Hellrong; 
"Well, the 'SO's still seem to have writer's cramps—too bad. Even our best *bull sessioners* are silent. But, gentlemen, this is just the lull before the storm. 
"Plans arc already in progress for the 10-year reunion in June. Your secretary was back to the campus for the Southern California game, and Jim Armstrong and Bill Dooley have guar­anteed the class of '30 one hundred per cent co­operation in making our party the biggest and the •bestest.' 
"Who did we run into in the Alumni Office but Tim Toomey, all the way from Greenfield. Mass. He hasn't changed one bit. He's still the same boy we knew 13 years ago. Tim is doing very 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
well in the insurance business in New York City. His specialty is the adjustment of claims. 
"Another fellow who hasn't changed at all is Frank Finneran. who hailed oriinnally from Fwrport, N. Y. Frank has settled down in Hun­tington, Tnd, He wasn't a star pupil in Father Tom Lahey*s advertising class for nothing be­cause he is now advertising manager for the Huntington news sheet. 
"Frank reported that he sees a lot of another newspaper man in Huntington—^Frank link, who is editor of the *Sunday Visitor.' which is pub­lished there. Conerntulations. Frank. Let us hear from you. 
"TiVe said 'Howdy* to Bill Artmann on our way over to the Dining Halls, hut by that time we were too hungry to stop, and Bill was very much occupied by a very attractive young lady who was clinging to his left arm as they strolled past Sorin Hall on their way to the Chapel or the Main Building. I wonder if she was his wife? 
"We chased Spike England all over the campus and never did catch up with him and Jean. (Jean is Mrs. England—the former Miss Jean Brady of St. Mary's and "Wlnfield, Kansas.) "When Spike and I roomed together in Sorin Hall, T ribbed him plenty about being a Tjumed out, broken down track star,* but I want to retract all I ever said in this direction, because he seems to have improved with age. We understand that the Englands ate their Thanksgiving turkoy at the Stevens Hotel in Chicago, and used the Southern California game as an excuse for a short winter vncation during which thei' visited some of their old haunts. 
"Dean McCarthy asked to be remembered to the 

•Commerce '30's'; Paul Fenlon asked to be re­membered to the students of English: and Father Hugh O'Donnell sends regards to you all. The Vice-President is happy to be relieved of the re­sponsibilities of the disciplinary office and he asks, particularly, the 'Fathers Club,* members of the class of '30, how they are now enjoying the job of disciplining 'Junior* and little baby sister. 
"That 'westerner* Jim Malloy, of Weston. West Va-, sat throe rows in front of us at the game. Jim was graduated as a bachelor of science in electrical engineering, and has been with the tel­ephone company ever since leaving Notre Dame. 
"For the game itself and for the season of 1939, Elmer Layden and his gang deserve nothing but praise for a thoroughly successful year. The team showed plenty of fight and punch. They played one of the most open and thrilling games of football ever witnessed by yours truly. For those of you who did not see this Southern Cali­fornia team, let us say that they were bigger than big. Their power plays were terrific, and their big line was almost impossible to move. None of us who saw the game is hanging his head in shame for having ijeen beaten by this team which is destined to carry off national honors this year. 
"While on the subject of football—Jack 'Boom Boom* Cannon was in St. Louis last month with the Columbus professional team. Jack is line coach for the club and his boys gave a very good account of themselves, beating the St. Louis Gunners, 20 to 0. At that stage of the sexison. after six or eight games had been played. Jack's Columbus 'Bullies' line had yielded only two touchdowns to opponents. However, coaching professional football is only a sideline with 'Boom Boom.* He is a special agent for the New York Life Insurance Company and one of Columbus' most eligible bachelors. 
"Had an announcement of the marriage of Bill Bore to one sweet lassie, Rita Mary Cook, in Cleveland on the 11th of November. Bill did not say what business he is in, but announced that they would be 'at home after the first of Decem~ ber at 13515 Shaker Boulevard.* Drop in and see the newiyweds if you are in the neighborhood. (But remember to make it after dinner because Rita Mary is no longer a 'cook.') 
"Another newlywed is John Golden who sur­prised your secretary last month with a tele­phono call, to say that he was passing through St. Louis with bis bride on their way back to Chicago, after a delightful honeymoon. John is selling bakers' supplies for a Chicago concern by the name of Wood & Selicfc. 
"The wedding took place on October 21 in Chi­cago at the Church of St. Bride, and who do you think was the best man? None other than Joe McCabe, the pugilist from TTrbana, 111.. Joe is with the Congoleum-Naim Company of Chicago. We are not sure whether John said he is mar­ried or single. 
"Bill McCarthy, who was president of the Chi­cago Club on the campus in '30. is no longer living in the Windy City. He is working for Uncle Sam in the Department of Internal Rev­enue somewhere in Georgia. 
"John Golden also informed us that Ed Franck, who was president of the Joliet Club on the cam­pus in '30, is running an attractive and popular cocktail bar in JoUet. Maybe we could get per­mission from the prefect of discipline to allow Ed to move his cocktail bar to the campus for the reunion in June—maybe. Will you be there, Ed? 
"Johnny McCarthy, the star of the basketball court who hailed from Waukegan, Dl., is now traveling the whole southern half of his native state for an insurance company. Southern Illi­nois is just across the river from us here in St. Louis, and perhaps Johnny will pay us a visit some day soon and give us the lowdown on the '30*s in his territory. , 
"While on the subject of basketball stars, we understand that Oonic Donovan is still in Bedford, Ind., the old home town, where he is one of the leading barristers of the community—^how about it, Oonie? 
"Jack Chcvigny blew into town just the other day from Mattoon, HI., in his new Cadillac sedan, to be best man at the wedding of Joe Yoch on Thanksgiving day. Joe was married in the St. Louis Cathedral to Miss Kay Wahl, and departed for an elaborate honeymoon in Mexico. Jack Chevigny is busy promoting oil fields, leases and wells in southern Illinois. His address is Grant Hotel. Mattoon, 111. He was not too busy to see Notre Dame play football this fall, however. The only game he missed all season was the one at Iowa City. 
"Another '30 to give a tinkle was Gordon Law-Icr, formerly of Fairmont, Minn., who is now giving Johnny McCarthy competition in the in­surance business in southern Illinois. He asked to be directed to a good steak where he might entertain a good customer and at the same time have a good meal for himself. Gordon is doing all right. He is not only eating regularly, but he is eating the best food. 
"We see from the last issue of the ALUMNTJS that Jim Rcynicrs is more in the lime-light than ever as a scientist, technician, and bacteriologist. How about an inspection tour through your new building in June as an added attraction for the reunion program—or do you think this gang would contaminate those germ-free bunnies of yours ? 
"It is unethical for lawyers to advertise, but if you have any legal business in Rockford. HI.— Tom Kccgan, the debater, orator, and editor, has just opened a law office under the name of Keegan and Ruttenberg at 708 Forest City Bank Building, Rockford. There is no charge for this plug, Tom, but if you are flushed you could make a donation to the class treasury—but, on second thought, who is the treasurer? 
"Bo Richards, the Muskogee wildcat, was until recently reporting the news from Waahinston, D.G., and is very active in Notre Dame affairs in the capital dty. He reports that JaA CBBIUJ; '30, and Mrs. Cassidy an announced the arrira] of Jimmie, *61. on June 10, also that Jack is sergeant-at-arms of the Notre Dame Club of Washington. Is this the handsome John J. Cas­sidy. president of the Engineers Club on the cain­pus in *30. who hailed from Ttccedo Park, N. Y.? If so, what is he doing in Washington? Let's have the news direct. Bo Bo, and open up with some statistics about yourself. 
"The most important business on your secre­tary's docket right now is the revidon of the malins list for the class. Ninety-nine per cent of you have moved since 1930, so drop me a line immediately^a penny postal will do—and let me have your residence and business address, the name of business, the date of your marriage, and your wife's first name, tlie number of children and their names. 
"Most important of all, let me know if you are planning to attend the reunion in June. 
"For the time being, members of the Presidents Club of 1930 will constitute the 'Round-up Com­mittee* for the teimion. This includes all presi­dents of city and state clubs, presidents or chair­men of school or class organizations (Engineers, Lawyers, Commerce Forum, Wranglers, Scrib­blers, etc.) and captains of athletic teams. Other officers of the organizations are included on this committee also. 
"A banquet committee, a smoker committee, a golf tournament committee, a swimming events committee, a softball committee and others will be announced later. , 
"In the meantime, send me your address. Fat down this magazine and do it now—I'm waiting to hear from you." 
John Gibbons, doing a nationally acclaimed job as secretary of the safety council and civic pro­motion divisions of the South Bend Association of Commerce, resigned on November 1 to accept an executive job with the Automobile Mantifac­turers' Association. After two months in New York and Washington. D. G., John is to establish himself in the Association's offices in Detroit. John was a reporter for the South Bend "Trib­une" from 1930 to 1936, when he joined the South Bend Civic Safety Council, later affiliated with the Association of Commerce. He was an ardent participant in several South Bend groups, especially in the Catholic sphere, and an active member of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joe Valley. 
1931 
Jtritn Bcrgan. 838 E. Colfax Avenne. 
South Bend, Indiana. 

From John Bcrgan: 
"Perhaps one of the outstanding events of the football season was the pre-game Notre Dame rally before the Army game in the Manhattan Center, New York. The highly successful event which attracted more than 2,000 fans of Army and Notre Dame was due largely to Dan Halpin and his capable assistants of the Metropolitan club. The class was greatly represented by Ed Cnnningham, the genial superintendent of Grey-court, an institution of the City of New York welfare department. Ed had many stories to tell of bis boys, Mike and Pete. Johnny Bomt, still single and manager of the American IJthograph­ing building, a 20-story office structure at 19th and 4th Ave., New York, was there, as well as Ritchie Barber, barrister from Rye, N. Y., who is associated with the firm of Barber and Mc­Cullough. Rich has been married since last June and Mrs. Barber made her first Army game. Ed 'Stretch' Mahon, a member of the New New York City Police Department, was present too. Ed has made great strides in the department and is doing technical work. Also on deck were Dr. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Paul O'Connor from Jersey way, who related that 
he has a boy, Paul Jr., a picture of the old man; 
Roy Bailie, the Fall River rubber man; Bob ATas­
sey, Westinghouse tield man; John 'Red* Foley, 
the Tarrytown teacher and one of the few re­
maining bachelors in the class: Dick Lac>* of 
Yonkers, who is assistant cashier of the TVav­
elers Insurance Company's Brooklyn branch: Bill 
Jones of the Washinjrton Jones*; he is now in 
the Lyons diWsion of the Department of Justice: 
Dan Williams, who is doinp IcRal work for an in­
surance company; Jim Rizcr, who is with the 
New York City Department of "Welfare: the 
afore-mentioned Louie Godoy who stayed over for 
the frame; Art Srcjranmon. the Boston advertising' 
man, and Tom Cunninsham, who covers New 
York very ably for the Addressojrraph Company. 
*'Amonp: the missinfr were Johnny Lisickt, who 
Is with the stntc in Now Bninswick, N, J-: At­
torney Albert Touhy, Mortpasor Tim Bcnitz; Art 
Berficn (thouph I did see his wife at the Yankee 
stadium) and Jack Van Dike, the Brooklyn pro­
duce wholesaler. 
"Bert MelzEcr was down for the Northwestern game and relates that he is with Chicago's larg­est milk company, the Bowman Dairy. Joe Sitck is now city editor of the 'Narod.' only Czech Catholic daily in the United States, and he re­lates the following news of the class: 
" 'Harrj' Busschcr is not only part owner, and I believe major stockholder of an Aurora (III.) brewery, but is also (for a real hit of news) trial attorney for about nine other lawyers. He's married and still resides in Melrose Park.' 
" *Don' Voss is married and daddy of a fairly numerous family in East Troy, Wis. His law practice is great. As for John Voss, he's in charge of the Milwaukee bureau of the Treasury Department, investigating principally counterfeit­ing cases. Has done great work in that field, apprehending some of the cleverest counterfeiters in the state. Married and daddy of beauteous Sandra/ 
•' 'Joe Stodola is city judge in Hammond. In­diana, and highly appreciated by the law-abiders. Also married and a proud papa.' 
"Reports from Boston state that the next benedict in the class will l>e none other than Jack Saunders who will be married shortly." 
"Making his first visit to the campus in nine years was John Ford Mehcm of Itankato, Minn. *Red' is kept husy these days as business mana­ger of Mankato's largest radio station. He is married and the father of two boys. AI Stcpan, the Genoil products man, also stopped off at the Notre Dame club Northwestern smoker to win the two free 50-yard line ducats. Many others, including Ed Foley of Waukegan. HI., Vince Ponic, Jim Doyle, Bill Leahy of Chicago, M>Ton Hcrshficid, Gil Gaudic, Bill Dcscnbcrg, Jim Kearney. Jerry Crowley and Ed Coomes of this vicinity were seen various places following the game. 
"Attending the Southern Cal game were. Broomcorn king Tom Monahan of Areola, HI.; Oilman Bob Sullivan and utilities expert Paul Grant of Mattoon, 111.: Merchant Tom Kassis. of Cheyenne, Wyo,; Timeclock Frank Loney, who is with American Business Machines in Cincin­nati ; Barrister Deon Sutton of Ann Arbor, Mich.; Milkman Bert Metzger, Chicago; Architect Stan Oblenus, of Chicago; Don O'Toole, Frank Mc-Greal, Jerry McKecver, Joe Dceb, Ed England, Ed Murraj', Vem Knox and others including Joe Tliomton, the Massachusetts magistrate, were on hand. Many informal reunions were held follow­ing the game in hotels and clubs so in all these were great week-ends for members of the class. 
"So before the pigskin season is finally placed in the moth balls, for 1939 may we congratulate Frank Leahy of Boston College, Frank Carideo of Iowa; Larry Mallins of Loyola of the South; BEarchie Schwartz of Creighton, and Marty Brill of LaSalle College, Philadelphia, on their fine football seasons. Perhaps the coaching of this group surpasses any other class' coaches for wins during the past season. 
"Thomas P. Fay, who was a master of arts in Boy Guidance in the class and who was well known bj* the old Lyons hall group, will be or­dained in the order of the Society of Jesus this June at Weston College, Weston, Mass., Charlie Kovacs has left the old home town for Chicago where he has a position with the Aetna Insur­ance company. Tim Toohcy is also connected with the Royal Insurance company in New York City. 
"Members of the class residing in the St. Joseph Valley will hold their annual dinner and get-together soon after the first of the year in one of the South Bend hotels. So, with a pleas­ant wish for the Yuletide, we'll finish our chores for 1939 with the hope that 1940 brings a note of actirities from at least one-tenth of the class." 
Jim Doyle sent in some news on the Chicago sector: "On Thursday. October 5, a bachelor din­ner was given for Jack F. Lynch, a mem'ber of the class of '31, at the Illinois Athletic Club. It was a grand affair which our host, Edward B. R^'an, handled in his usual perfect manner. Among the Notre Dame men in attendance were: Joseph B. SuUi^-an. Gil Seaman. Jack Daffy, Vince Ponic, Jack Purdy. Bud O'Hara. Jack Dufi'y and Jim Doyle. Bill Kerrigan sent his re­gards as an important business matter pre\*ented his presence. 
"Dr. Clark Bcnkcndorf was visiting in Chicago for a few days last month. At present he is lo­cated in Bushncll, Illinois, and doing quite well in his sanitarium." 
1
00 0 Herbert Giortno, 9005 188th Street. 7^ ^ Hollis, L. L, New York. 
We hear that: William Weir, '32, still single, is now practicing law at 821 Manhattan Ave., Brooklyn, and is also deputy grand knight of Brookl>Ti council. Knights of Columbus. 
Drew Sheibler, '32, has taken over his father's furniture store in Brooklyn and is married. His old pals. Jimmy Ward. George Boden. Willie WiDiffan, all of Brooklyn, and Gene ConncUey recalled old times at Manhattan Center on the eve of the Army game. About the only familiar faces missing were Tom l^Iahaffey and Leo Hodel of Sorin street fame. Tom Feely, Don Wise and Joe Krcnsic made the Southern Cal game. Char­lie Quigley and Nick Kalmes with their wives went east for the Army game. 
George Hcnnion, assistant professor of chemis­try at Notre Dame, is among the newly admitted fellows of the Indiana Academy of Science. 
BiU Otto writes that he is still with the Inter­national Boundary Commission and is residing now in the Hotel Plaza, Harlingen. Texas. 
109 9 Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant Street, I 7^ ^ Joliet, Illinois. 

The Alumni Office has just now received word that James A. Donnelly, of Westfield, New Jer­sey, is now in Jloreau Seminary, Notre Dame. 
^Q^A ^ t Robert CahilL Athletic Association, I 70* t Notre Dame. Indiana. 

From Bob Cahill: 
"Well, mates, it'll be short and sweet this issue. The football season has taken its toll of your secretary's time for this edition, and on top of that, you gents still haven't come out of the old lethargy to send me information, news, or plain statements of fact. Come on, loosen up, or shall I have to start sending Rotarian exhortations to put our shoulders to the wheel? 
•*Jim Griffin, Rome. New York, will be on the scene for TI.S.C. I imagine lots of us will be, and I'll keep the eyes open for those stalwarts of '34, but I do hope those who can will drop in to see me and say hello. 
"Rudy Crnkovic dropped me a line on October 24 inquiring about U.S.S. tickets. I hcpe he comes. Rudy wanted to be remembered to Tom Stritch. Incidentally, Rudy, I don't see much more of Stritch than you do. He gets himself over in that Caf and hides behind a pile of toast and marmalade most of the time. Just like the English profs did when we were boys, remember? Speaking of English profs, perhaps lots of you didn't know that Jim Withey is recovering after a hard struggle for his health in Grand Rapids. 
"Good old Frank Widgcr dropped in last month. r enjoyed a nice ch.it with Frank. Ue's handsome as ever, traveling for the Texas Company, and gets to South Bend regularly. This secretaryship has done one thing—let some of the boys know I'm at NJ), He promised to stop more often, and the same goes for any of you other men who go through here. Maybe we could drop over to the Caf, or the candy store (you oughta see that dive now. all prettied up in Gold and Blue, with a soda fountain, tables, sandwiches and gadgets) for a coke. But here I go prattling on as though you men hadn't been back for ages, and we were sup­posed to have had a reunion last June. Stop me if you've been here. 
Anjnvay, before I digressed, Frank told me he thought AHnce McCanney, another Foreign Com major along with "Wldeer and myself, is now in Chicago with Aanaconda Copper. Speaking of Foreign Commerce majors, I was one and haven't been off the campus since graduation! 
"Mel Meyer, formerly of Minneapolis, is now with McGill Manufacturing Company in Valpa­raiso, Indiana, accounting department. He wrote to say that 'I bumped into Don Mcintosh the night of the Legion parade in Chicago. He was expecting to take the bar exam at that time. I was very much surprised to find out that he had been married since coming to Chicago. A note from Dick (Murgatroyd) 3runen some time ago informed me that he was controller of Padre Vineyards in Los Angeles [make mine Muscatelle. Dick] and was the proud father of two fighting Irishmen.' 
"While in Cleveland for the Navy game I saw Tony Anzlovar, John Bcglcy and Ed O'Brien of cur class, not to mention many other alumni. O'Brien is about to become a father again. Best of luck, Oby. He reported as haring seen Charley Schwartzcl. I didn't see him, hut I think I heard him! 
"AI Phancuf wrote from 6115 Washington Boulevard, St. Louis. He said that Jack O'Neil is in St. Louis with General Motors Acceptance Corporation. I saw Jack last fall in South Bend, whence he had come by the devious way of Charleston, W. Va. AI is doing social service work. 
"John 'Tarz* Kiple says he will be here for Northwestern and Southern Cil. Hope John has as good a time as he did at the reunion, but not quite as good. Vince Reishman and his Mis­sus will be the Cahill house guests for Southern Cal. Father Bourke Motsett. '31, whom I saw at the Iowa game said that BiU Motsett would be up for Northwestern. I suppose if Motsett comes, Tom Oakcs will be along. Here's hoping. 
"In the 'Marriages' sector of this issue you'll find the news of AI Smith's marriage. AI and his-bride were out to California on their honeymoon and stopped on the way back to Indianapolis to see Red Hagan in Mexico, Missouri. Red had" been in Indianapolis for the wedding. Al is trust-officer of the Hdelity Trust Company. 
"I'm afraid that's all, chillun, for this time,. 

as it's 10 P. M. and your correspondent still has an hour or two of work yet tonight in this hectic football Fcason. I do want to soy, though, that I don't like to see these same names recurring in this column. You don't like it cither, and for you fellows whom I didn't know so TVCU in school or who didn't know mc, don't let that stop you from contributing. Drop me a card, a letter, or anything. Drop in, if you can. But if you want to set news of the hoys, I'll surely be glad to get It from you. 
"Oh yes,—^Ed Aforan. sales supervisor for the Tyne Company, 3212 West Fillmore Street, Chica­go, generously crashed through with the following: 
"'Johnny Gallagher, the lad from Donegal. Ireland, is still in America and is working here in Chi. Norhcrt T. Alizerski is the proud daddy of a baby boy called John Charles Mizerski. Saw James S. Kcams in Iowa City before the Iowa game last Saturday. Looks like Jim has not changed a bit since leaving school. John J. Maher is still general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates football club. Had a pleasant visit with him for a few days when the team was in train­ing at Two Rivers, Wisconsin. His venture into baseball has been very successful for the Tyler team in the East Texas League did very well.' 
" 'Bob Ruppc is now at the Congress Hotel, Chi­cago, where he has complete charge of the Engi­neering Department. A big job with a lot of responsibilities but it was placed in the right hands. Making a wonderful record for himself there.' " 
John Wallace, formerly of New York City, is working for the Albert McGann Securities Co. in South Bend and living at 1017 East Madison Street. 
A newly-elected member of the Alumni Associa­tion is Father Edward L. O'Malley, St. Mary's parish, Troy, New York, who was with the '34 class in 1930-32. Father O'Malley was out to the campus for the Southern Cal game and stopped for a pleasant chat in the Alumni O^ice. 
IQ9 C Franklyn C. Hochrcitcr, 530 Saint I #^5 # Peter St., New Orleans, Louisiana. 
"Here comes the combined Christmas - New Year's tidings all wrapped into one. And, inci­dentally, it is the first respectable column we have had this year. It took a while to wake up the '35 corpus, but it looks like the ole interest is on the griddle again. Let's keep up the spirit, gang, and make it bigger and better every month. 
"Before breaking into the correspondence we have to mention an ex. '35er, who visited us as though from the dead. None other than our roomie of those bleak, cold days in the Freshman Hall that is no more—Jack McCarthy. We had just returned from class one day after the last ALUMNUS made its appearance, when the bell rang. At the door we found Mac—same ole smile, same ole friendly sw*agger of the days when we used to fight about how much snow would be permitted to blow in through our windows. 
**Jack was taking the bouncing baby daughter for a ride in her new carriage. Mary Catherine is just n year old. She must take after her mother though—^you know she's rather cute. There was a 'Sirs.' added to the McCarthy name four years ago. At the present time Jack is working for the Chicago water bureau. Back in '37 he was with the employment service of the Federal Department of Labor. Nice seeing you, Mac—we look forward to more chats about the fall of '31. 
"Three letters brought us all our dope for this month, two of the correspondents volunteered their names, the third forgot to sign his letter. Too bad too, because the stuff is just what we have been waiting for—the inside story on the gang from the east—and we would like to offer our 'gratias.' Along with the anonymous epistle was the yearly offering of Messrs. Sluszka and Holahan. They never fail to tune in to our appeal for news, and this time as usual came through in grand style. 
"We'll clean up the unsigned job first. Sit tight—here comes news on what happened in New York City the week-end of the Army game. 
"Let's turn our attention to the N. Y. Club Rally held on Friday night before the game at Manhattan Center. We hear that Jim McDevitt left early as the program became drau-n out with speakers. He was his same old restrained, quiet self, not even noticing our reporter. 
"That fellow who seems to have migrated north from aiemphis, Neil Farrell. was on hand. Neil has not lost a pound, nor have the red cheeks faded with the years. At present he is with Purity Baking Company. 
"Frank Sinnott—we all remember Frank—has settled down to the comfortable and secure task of teaching English at Admiral Farragut Acad­emy that is located about S5 miles out Jersey way. We hear that you have a real load, too. Frank, Are you making little admirals out of your charges? 
"It's been a good while since we had a word from the Brooklyn 'Eagle' star reporter. Bill Kennedy, but we hear that he was about with the 'Mrs.' Reports come in that Bill was con­vulsing the lads with that old dry wit, and later was seen cavorting around the dance floor in a manner we readers of 'The Week' would never have dreamed possible. 
"Phil Kirley left his sanctuary in the Kewanee banking business to brave Gotham's foils and foibles for his first Army game. He reported the other three of that noisy foursome—Rubly, Weber, and Keating—were, according to his last info, doing well. 
"Phil queried about Joe 'Brute' Washko, who, our correspondent says, was recently married and that it went unchronicled in the sheet. For that we arc humbly sorry, and offer the drug store flash our very best, and to his wife—an admo­nition io watch the man of the house. 
"Seen conversing and renewing old roommate stories w*ere Jim Shcils and Jim Dwycr from up Hudson Falls way. 
"It was during our year at Columbia that we last heard of Bill Schmidt. Word of him has been as scarce as turkey on German tables. But we unde^st.^nd that Bill was very much in evi­dence at the Rally. In fact, between our friend of the engineering school and the uniformed men of Commissioner Valentine, all undesirables were kept out. That's right—Bill held down the door with the police. 
"The ole 'spell-binder,' Jim Revillc, was trip­ping the light fantastic on the dance floor. 'Ravil­lie,* as he was known then and now, has changed little since leaving the discipline of the area around the dome. He is still the 'international matador." We think you get it! 
"There was a summer when Jim Bartley and Lou *Lefty* Dunn spent a few days with us in the Queen City of the Lakes. Jim saw our 
- Winchell and asked after the scribe, we hear. Why not write and find out for yourself, Jim? As a guard of honor or a means of swelling the crowd, the Bartley boy had his two sisters with him. 
"Iowa Tom Walsh, who is in the contracting business with his Dad. was about the Center. He divulged that he is living out in Hartsdale while building tunnels for the city of New York. 
"Where there is a contact to be made, where 
Nctre Dame crowds gather, there you will find 
the Indiana barrister, the pride of Dean Konop —P*t Fisher. Pat, the same old rollicking Irish­man, dropped everything in Indianapolis to speed east for the week-end. The local council of the 
K. of C. would have been proud of their man had they seen Pat beaming and handshaking as he made the rounds. 
"Among others noted at the rally were our Jersey Tom Flynn, Phil Heinle, Andy Maffei, Bill Martha, and Mr. and Mrs. Bob Robers. 
"Moving along after the game, we'll take up at the Pennsylvania Bar. We heai- that it is be­coming an official headquarters for N.D. men the night of the game. Amidst the noise, smoke and confusion of friendships being renewed and memories resurrected there were more '35ers than had been seen hy our correspondent since that Commencement long ago. 
At one table John Neeson and Jim Nolan with a delegation -from Philadelphia were busily en­gaged chatting with Bill Toamey, Kay Brodericfc, Jack D'Arcr and PhU Heinle. At another was seen Jack Gcrrits and Frank Sinnott with their respective feminine interests. We hear that Mike Tackley and Johnnie Moran were there too. The latter had his pencil and pad out gathering dope for the '3G rival column. Incidentally. John, we couldn't have done better than our unknown friend, if we had been there ourself. 
"Jim Bowdrcn was among the throng, and he let it be known that 'strong man' Jerry Slolinari had brought half of Oneonta down with him and had quartered his delegation at the McAIpin. 
"Ed Blake was seen at the Penn but whether his companion was girl friend or wife, it was not ascertained. We do know, however, that they were putting the 'formal touch' to the festivities. 
At another table were seen Jim Shells, Jim Dwyer, Pat Fisher, and Mr. and Mrs. Jack Rain­ey. Jack is now running a paint business in Troy, New York—factory et al.—is very happy and satisfied. Nice going. Jack—^loads of good luck. 
"Even the Outdoor Advertising Co., and Kala­mazoo could not restrain Art Molholland, and he traveled east for the game and, incidentally, the Penn bar. 
**The three Waldron brothers attended the game but only Joe and Jim showed at the Penn. Brother Howard retired from the bustle of the big city for more quiet locale in Jersey. The t\vo brothers Waldron were seen with two St. Mary's girls now in the big town: Betty Raiss and Mary Jane Walsh. Our past will catch up with us! 
"Louis Grosso had been in the Penn earlier in the evening but had left for unknown parts. Never could tell where that master of the rapier would turn up! How goes the Law, LouieT 
"That about winds up the story on the Army week-end, but we have more. Jerry Doyle is re­puted to be teaching in Middlebtirg College in Vermont. 
"We hear rumors that Bob Simmons has en­tered the seminary. If this be true, we would appreciate a verification from Bob or a friend. 
"Another •35er has joined the ranks of the married men. Ray Brett took to himself a bride last month and went east for his honeymoon. We hear that pre-marital and noarital life has agreed so well with Ray that he has put on half a hundred pounds. That's all right, Ray, we took on a mere 26 in nine months before we came up here. Eight have now disappeared. 
"We get it that Joe Kaley is handling a busi­ness in the home town of Milton, New York. Don't know what it is though. 
"Jim Weldon is carrying on with the Bird's Eye Frozen Fruits and Vegetables Company. 
"Turning now to Sig Slnszka, we welcome his return to the living. 'What we mean this Sluszka fella really gets around. Every time he writes he has big news about himself, and each time it means progress. So here goes on the latest de­velopments in the Polish Minister's diary. 
"Sig is teaching Remedial English to first gen­eration Americans at Scwanhaka High School. We don't know where it is, but we gather it must-be in the environs of native New York City, maybe Garden City, Long Island. 
"In addition Sig has the job of varsity line coach and coach of the JU (?) team, 'giving them some of that Notre Dame sj-stem.* The home team scored their first touchdown on 10/20 in three years. Guess Sig's system is taking hold. 
"In August Sig attended the New York "Herald-Tribune' football school. Among tiiose present were six N.D. men coaching in surrounding high schools. Rip AHIIer, Johnny Law and Harry Stnhldreher were among the prominent alumni. 
"We quote further from Sig's letter: 'This sum­mer was spent in organizing and conducting a national convention of American Polish teachers. Rer. Dr. Stanislaus Liscwski, CS.C., Lector in Polish at Notre Dame, gave invaluable advice and assistance. These Ptolish teachers (600 are known) were organized and are now known ss the National Association of American Polish Teachers. Yours truly is the national president, and the Rev. Dr. Lisewski is on the board of ad­
" 'Another score for the Notre Dame educational system is to be chalked up. Ihe University of the State of New York has conferred upon me the first permanent teacher's certificate qualifying me to teach Polish in New York State public high schools.' 
"Well, that was a real mouthful of news, and it spells success in every word for you, Sig. We are proud to have you with us and wish you all possible luck on your Fh.D. work at Teachers College, Columbia, You might give Father Lord a return 'hello* for us, and tell him we would like to hear from him one day soon. 
"And now to the Treasury Department and Frank Holahan. Frank is still worldng out of 
•VWlkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, But his work and his social life really gets him around the coun­try. It took an Armisti<» Day to get to a letter, but we are glad that day does come around once a year, Frank, even if it may not be for long now. 
"We'll quote from Frank's letter and let him pass on the dope directb* to the gang: 'A couple of months ago I spent several weeks in the Mid-West, and I talked with "Scorpe" Hallberg in Galesburg, where he was spending a week-end away from his labors as an auditor for the Emergency Relief worldng out of Springfield, Illinois.' 
" 'Tom Graves was also in Galesburg busily chasing up news items for a Peoria paper. He told me that Jack Frcndcrgast was in Chicago acting as an agent for a company selling these large electric fans used by so many offices, res­taurants, etc., instead of air-conditioning.' 
" 'According to reports in Galesburg, "Roundy" Poguc is kept busy rearing a family and work­ing for Wilson-Jones Company, the large sta­tionery supply firm in Chicago.' 
" 'I met my old roommate from the Presbytery, Danny McLaughlin, when I was in Minneapolis, and we had a good bull session. At that time he had just finished his Minnesota bar exam, and was waiting to hear the results.' 
" 'After spending a few days in Racine, Wis­consin, I had a few hours with Jim Hamilton who is doing very well as general purchasing agent for his father's electrical appliance manu­facturing company.' 
" 'AVhile working in Philadelphia recently, I have spent pleasant evenings ^rith Adrian Wack­erman, who by the way is lining up a hew architect's job at this time: Lany O'DonneU, who is in charge of the Philadelphia office of a large builders' trade journal; and Ray Broderick, who is the picture of prosperity due to a good position in the tax research division of the Rural Electrification Commission in Washington.' 
"Going on with Frank's interc>sting missive we find that he was in New York for the Army game and ran into a good number of the crowd that have already been mentioned above. He did ^ve a little inside news on se\'eral of the above that we did not get via the anonymous epistle. As for instance that Tom Flynn of Montclair is as­sociated with a brokerage firm in the big town and that Phil Heinle has an influential position with the American Can Corporation. 
"Walt Shcahan, according to the Treasury Department, is doing very well In the liquor business. 
"While in New York, Frank stayed at the New Yorker and did a good bit of entertaining. He found that Ed Cullcn is with the Republican City Committee in Boston. 
- "But here Is a piece of real news. Don't worry any more fellas—^we have a G-man in our midst. Yep, and who should it he—why none other than Jack Matthews. Jack has just completed his preliminary work with the Federal Bureau of Investigation and is now a full-fledged G-Man, and last heard of down our way in New Orleans. 
"Jack 'Red* D'Arcy is reported to be a big-time politician in Boston, with a plumbing business on the side, after leaving the Law Schools of Washington along with Camillc Gravel, to Ned Rowan and Matt Brovm. Gravel was last heard of heading south for Louisiana. Anybody heard of him en route? 
"Well, gang, that's about it for this time. We have a few closing thoughts. First we want to tell our three correspondents that we are really grateful for their cooperation, and hoi)e they have set up a precedent. 
"We noted a few vital statistics in the 'Mar­riages' and 'Births* column that concern our crew. So here go official felicitations from the class of *35 to Jack Nye Dulfcy, ex. '35. who married Miss Claire Beverly Donlon in Brooklyn on October 12; Norm Fredericks, who married Miss Mary Lois To\ey In Detroit last April 15; and Jordan T. Hargrove, who accepted Miss Aimee Elcxis Poscner in Douglaston, New York, on September 23. 
"To the following proud fathers and mothers we say 'lucky youT: Mr. and Mrs. Louis Fautsch on a daughter born in Dubuque, October 21; Mr. and. Mrs. Eugene O'Brien, on a son bom in South Bend, September 23; and Mr. and Mrs. Ralph O'Mallcy, on a daughter bom in Misha­waka on September 26. We have a word for *Fautschie' of our Sorin days—^Does she have your black hair and ruddy, rosy cheeks, kid? 
"A closing word about the reunion, gang. IVom what we hear you are talking it up, but we have got to hear from you too. We plan to send you a letter next Alarch with a postcard enclosed for you to indicate your attendance. In Ma>' we might send another postcard. In the Aiiril and May issues of the ALUMNUS we hope to run a complete list of those of you who will attend, .with your comments about the re­union, etc. 
"We have just received an up-to-date mailing list of the class from the Alumni Office. It is their corrected list, but we note several changes that have come to our attention and we shall inform them about it. But what Is more !m­iwrtant, there were several who had no address. We give you their names now, so that should the following read this, they may send in their correct address to our New Orleans home imme­diately. And if any of their friends know where they are, please do this littie courtesy for them, so we won't omit the following when we send out the letters: Lawrence Vanzandt Clark, A.B.; John Robert Connors, B.S. Phy. Ed.; John Jo­seph Cmnican, B.C.9.; Walter Joseph Dick, A.B.; John Francis Finn, A.B.; Salvatore Samuel Gioe, 
B.S. Phy. Ed.; Charles Frederick Hill, B.S.; George Edgar Hill, B.S. (Them. E.; James Rich­ard Howard, B.C.S.; Velmar Keith Klaiber, B.G.S.; John Francis Murphy, B.S. M.E.; John Sidney Pittingill. B.S. Phy. Ed.; John Thomas Rainey, A.B.; Frederick James Shanley, A.B.; Francis Joseph Shay, B.C.S.; Leonard William Sickemeyer, B.C.S.: Edward John Smith, A.B.; Sidney Lester Steinberg, A.B.; and Edwin Robert Wykoff, A.B. 
"Remember, gang—all those above have had mail returned to the Alumni Office marked 'un­claimed.* so please do what you can—all of you —to get us the latest address on the 'unclaimed '35crs.' 
"If you have not received the ALUMNUS regu­larly, or if you have moved within the past year, please send in your present mailing address to us now at 530 St. Peter Street, New Orleans, La. Just a penny postcard with your name and ad­dress on it will do. What do you say—let's pull together to make this first five-year reunion on May 31, June 1 and 2, the best on record! 
"As we are about to take an I.C. iron horse for the Creole City in the morning to spend the President's Thanksgiving Day with Mrs. H.. and since we won't be seeing you before Santa Claus comes — here is to a Merry CThristmas and a Happy New Year to the gang from Mr. and Mrs. Scribe." 
The latest address in the Alumni Office for 
Bob Forbes is Box 787, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 

Bob's former address was in Mamaroneck, New .York. 
AI AlcCarthy, 94 6 Nottingham Road, Grosse Pointe, Michigan, is now \rith the Michigan Mu­tual Liability Company, Detroit, as the result of a suggestion which the Alumni Office Placement Bureau was happy to he able to send to him. 
Walt Brown, according to his latest word, is with the S. S. Kresge Co,, 1428 Point Breeze Avenue, Fhiladelphiiu 
•IA9Z . Jolui Moran. 61 E. 95th St, Apt. 2, I Ta O New York City. 
From John Moran: "We are banging out this column the day after Thanksgiving (if that Is too indefinite for most of you, we had better add that we mean the streamlined or early Roosevelt version of Turkey Day). Our news this month naturally centers about the Army game and the gang which bobs up every year for the pre-game Reunion and Rally run by the N.Y. club, and the post-game reunion and rally that takes place in the Penn Grill. But many a turkey leg has been picked clean, and many a point after touchdown missed since then (lowal Ouch!). So If we overlook a few of you who joined us in celebrating the final score, we welcome your long, vigorous let­ters of protest. They make good reading, as well as helping to fill this great, empty column next time. 
"Elsewhere in this issue you can read about the steady stream of movie actors, actresses, sporting figures, politicians, etc, that flowed past the microphone at the pre-game rally in Man­hattan Center. Our more Immediate concern 'was with the '36ers present .. . and since none of us even got within ten feet of the mike, it wasn't 

f so difTicnlt to find the hoys sathenng in the back .. . near the beer. 
"Steve Miller, who did some nifty tricks "with the old pigskin in his days, was on hand and was looking fine. Steve is now an attorney, working for the federal government in Washing­ton. Tom Kccnan, ace advertising man from the 
N. Y. Daily 'News,' was around all evening 

, campaigning for another 'News' cohort, Tom Dunn. The Tom that is surnamed Keenan, made us promise to vote for the Tom that answers to the Dunn handle, and who, incidentally, is running for the executive committee of the Newspaper Guild. Now nil we have to do is beg, steal or borrow a membership in the Guild, so that we can vote the Dunn ticket into office. 
"Others raising their voices in the general din were a bunch of ex-'Scholastic' editorial scrib­blers, including Vince Gorman. '35. who is cur­rently cutting cadavers at Cornell Med School here in N. Y.: Bill Kennedy, '35. who works on a Long Tsland paper, and Hal Williams, '38, who practically puts out a country paper single­handed down in Maryland. Bill Kennedy reported that he is married, is the proud papa of a little 

^ daughter, and is currently dodging bill collectors at 21 Cumberland St., Rockville Centre. Long Island. N. Y. 
"Another Cornell Med practitioner, Frank Murray, passed along word that Bob Burke, Louisville's gift to the legal profession, was-married on August 26 to Frances Bady (the spelling may be incorrect, so don't sue us. Bob). Bill Bowes was best man at the wedding. While dealing with the professions, we can include Doc Caspar, another down-South product, who is get­ting his training at the University of Penn­sylvania. 
"Howie Cusack reported that be is now with the advertising department of the Briggs To­bacco Company in New York. Jack Britton, busy claim adjuster for Liberty Mutual Insurance CO. here in N. Y., was looking for a pair of tickets for the game. We almost got our hands on two 

*" for him, but someone beat us to them. 
"Not having made any reserv-ations, we moved in on a tabic with Bill Moss, '35, up-and-coming Montgomery Ward executive, Cy Stroker, *37, Jim Kirby, '36, and a friend of Moss' from the University of Alabama, who ^ was the only one-man quartet we ever had the pleasure of hearing. 

^ Incidentally, while the 'Alumnus' reported Strok­er, in its last issue, as working somewhere in Ne\\'port News, Va., he was, at this \vriting, still laboring in New York, and trying to best us in our weekly handball tussles at the Y.M.C.A. 
"A sight for sore eyes was Bob Cavanangh, who hadn't been able to leave his job with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in Wash­

^ ington, for the last few Army games. Ray Deely, who also keeps your deposits insured, was on hand, and we had quite a bull session which was carried on the next night in the Penn Grill. Ray and Bob are doing famously down in the Capital City, and it was a pleasure to hear them talk so enthusiastically about their jobs. Joining in the bull session were Jim Sherry, the demon account­ant who keeps the records straight for the Chcv­
r rolet Co. in its Tarrytown, N. Y., plant, and Al Carey, who does his accounting for Touche-Niven & Co., in N. Y. The stories flew thick and fast. and we regret that we were enjoying ourselves too much to take time out for a few notes. 
"Christ Matthews informed us that he is with Abraham Straus Department store in Brooklyn. Dick Baker, another department store mogul. t does his bit for Sten Brothers in New York. Dick Campbell was on hand, as was Jack Lee, 
who stated that he has settled down at 21 West 70th Street, after doing a bit of drumming here and there since graduation with various orches­tras. Incidentally, we picked up the N. Y. Daily 'News' on November 5 to discover a-two­column headline reading *N.D. Alumnus Cracks Grid Jackpot for S150.00.' Right below was a picture of Dick, the lucky winner, and Win Day. '36, standing beside him. Dick, in competition with 181,912 others (no foolin'), picked 15 out of 15 winners in the paper's weekly contest. So did 66 others, but Dick won the coveted cash be­cause he hit three scores smack on the nose, among them being the N.D.-Army score! Nice going, Dick. 
"The Rally continued on till the wee hours of the morning, but nearly everyone was on time for the opening kick-off next day. Going up the aisle to our seat, we were hailed by Joe Mahar, the pride of Kingston, N. Y. Joe is now a state auditor with the UnempIo>'ment Insurance Com­mission, and doing very nicely. At the game with us were Bud Goldman, Cy Stroker, Jim Kir­by, and several others in the adjoining rows. Also in the stands was Jim Armstrong, the genial gentleman of the Alumni Office. 
"Leaving the stadium we bumped into Nick Tancrcdi, but in the rush we didn't get a chance to ask the famous Bengal Bout wrestler what he was doing these days. In the Penn Grill that night we were glad to sec Joe Weiss again. Joe is in the real estate business, but Intends to finish vji his law education when he returns to law school shortly. P.S. How about a letter, with more details? 
"Joe Waldron had an interesting story to tell about the weekly newspaper, the Trenton "rimes,* which his family began publishing recently in Trenton, N. J. Joe is business manager, brother Howie, •34, is editor, and Joe's Dad is publisher. We requested a copy of the paper, and Joe obliged a week later with a few issues, which made very interesting reading. Thanks. Joe, and any of you Jerseyites who live near Trenton will do well to become subscribers. Jim Waldron, '37, we learned is still taking law, at Harvard. Joe also dropped us some dope in the mail to the effect that Ed Owens is working for the Catholic Charities in or around Denver. Bill Fay is boosting Ovaltine sales somewhere or other, while Joe Ratigan is an insurance and real estate operator in Bor­dentown. N. J. Bill Shakespeare is bound for South America to represent the Independent Pneu­matic Tool Company, Chicago (the last time we read about Bill, he was in Hollywood, playing pool with Columnist Ed Sullivan and Groucho Marx or somebody). Bob MacDonald is now prac­ticing law in Flint, Michigan, w-hile Art Cronin is taking care of the Cronin Coal Co. in Detroit. Art married a St. Mary's girl, Betty McDermott. and is now a proud papa. Congratulations. Thanks for the copies of the 'limes.' Joe. and also for your cards. 
"Ralph Cardinal and Mike Tackley, two Ma­lone, New York, boys, came out of the great north woods to cheer the Irish on. Ralph is in business with his father in Malone, and promised to drop this column a line once in a while with a little local ^news. Bill Shea forgot his St. John's law work for the evening, as did Biff Flannery, who goes to the night session of the same school, and devotes his days to getting a bit of practical experience with one of the city's leading law firms. Andy Hnfnagel was on hand to report that he was working for the National Catholic Alumni Federation, and finding the work vastly interesting. 
Also bumped into Jim Reilly, but neglected to ask Jim whether Wilson Sporting Goods had been used in the game that afternoon. Luke Tieman was on hand, as was Pat Fisher, who is practicing law in Indianapolis. George Keenan, very much a family man now that he is a proud papa, reported that he is still worldng with his father in the can business over Brooklyn way. 
"We didn't recognize Maury Quinn when -we first saw him, because he was togged out in evening clothes, and had a derby i>erched on top of his noggin. But when we beard that deep laugh, we knew it was 'Moe,' despite the dis­guise. Maury reported that he is practicing law in Binghamton. N. Y., and is writing a book on the labor situation. I^t's hear more about that in the near future. Dusty Rhoades. from upstate New York, was around most of the evening, along with a good number of others. All in all. it was a grand week-end. and if we have slipped up on a few of those present, let us hear from you and we will make amends next month. 
"In the mail these last few weeks was an in­vitation from Lieutenant Louis Hansman. Air Corp Reserve, U. 9. Army, to attend the gradua­tion exercises at Kelly Field, Texas, on Nov. 28. Congratulations, XiOule, on making the grade. How about a letter soon ? While we're in the air, we might as well report a letter from Joe Sulli­van, who is working for United Air Lines at Newark, N. J., airport. Joe promoted a round trip to the Southern California game in a 21 passenger transport plane. 
"Pat Tofuri postcarded in from "Winchester, Mass.. to say that he married Miss Cfeorgianna Todesca, last year. Pat lost his mother in June, and asked the prayers of the class for her. Other information was to the effect that Professor Bay Hoyer paid the Tofuris a visit in August, while he was teaching at Boston College. Lastly, Pat is in line for congratulations, as he is expecting a blessed event shortly. For those who want to write him, Pat can be reached at 6 Nelson Steeet. 
"Ken Laws came through with a newsy letter from Chicago, where he is attending Northwest­ern Medical School. He will graduate in Decem­ber of this year, instead of next June, as he spent two summer vacations going to school. After the Sth of January, Ken can be reached at St. Mar­garet's Hospital. Hammond, Indiana, where he will be interning. Also at Northwestern Med are Fred Cox and Don McKay. Fred was married last summer and is living somewhere on the South Side, of Chicago. Don is keeping the boys at the Alpha Kappa Kappa house under control, as he is the Archon there. Ken has recently seen George Measher, now a senior at Illinois Medical School, Chicago. Bob Lauer, who is with Sears Roebuck, and Ed Daley, who is at Loyola Med. Ken met Bill Jacobs and Tom McGettrick while in Cleveland last snmmer. Bill quit med school because of his eyes and is working for a pharmaceutical house with his dad. He reported that his former classmates at St. Ixiuis Med School arc doing very well. These included Leo Hoffschneidcr, Dick SamowskI, and Henry Staun­ton. 
"Ken would like to hear from some of the boys who are going to med school, particularly Chuck Kollar at Georgetown, Doc Caspar, and Frank Murray. "What say, boys? In the meantime. Ken. thanks for your very interesting letter, and we hope it won't be so long before you write again. 
"In response to our plea in last month's col­umn for a little news, Mrs. Joseph MacDonald, mother of Hank MacDonald, graciously sent us an, announcement of her son's wedding on September 
2. Hank married Miss Beatrice Dillon of Ware, Mass.. in an elaborate ceremony. At present. the newlyweds can be reached at 45 Seventh St., Apt. 9C. Weehawken, New Jersey. Congratula­tions, Hank, and good luck. Mac is now con­nected with the Globe Wireless, Ltd., 29 Broad­way, N. Y. C, after being with Western Union for nearly three years. Thank you very much, Mrs. MacDonald, for your trouble in writing. We enjoyed your letter very much. 
"Our last letter of the month comes from ACdcey Dendlcr, who graduated in June from the University of Pennsylvania Law School in Philadelphia. Mickey reports that Connie Byrne is personnel director for the Schicter Jute Co, in that city. Also that Lefty Jordan has a nice position with the Daprato Studios in Chicago. 
"^Vbile out to Notre Dame in August, Mickey met Joe Foley, from down Texas way. Joe is with a Texas oil firm, while his old roommate. Bad Vervact, is working for his father in their label factorj*. location not known. Mickey also saw Dan Kalczynski, now a teller with the First Bank & Trust Co., and Charlie Fitzsimon, who is living in CassopoHs, Michigan, after leav­ing the Naval Air Ser\*ice because of eye trouble. 
"And tliat about winds up the business of the column for this month. Since there is only one Army game a year to draw the members of the class to New York, with a consequent harvest of news items, we want a few letters from you to fill this ya\vning space for the next issue. "We would particularly appreciate Christmas cards with a note inserted or a little news written on the back of tlie card. And while we're at it, let us wish you all a happy, hearty Yuletido, and a prosperous New Year. And if you will just wish us a few more letters, cards, and what-have-you during the coming weeks, we'll be more than thankful." 
Bob McAuliife sends word that he is an engi­neer with the Northwest Area Headquarters, Wis­consin Conservation Department, Box 624, Spoon-er, Wisconsin. 
IQ^ y Paul Foley. 1S036 Schocnhoer Koad, I T^ / Detroit. Michigan. 
From' Paul Foley: 

"Here it is the eve before 'Franksgiving* and little to be thankful for in the way of corre­spondence. So far I have three 1%-centers with a startling sepia image of Mr. Harding, two Hackcnsack cancellations, and an imperforate 3­center which a Phy. Ed man tried to use t\vice. Some of the better hotels are represented with envelopes—but that was moons ago. 
"Old faithful O'Boylc, who was never late for a 'Scholastic' staff meeting either, WTIS the sole correspondent since the last issue staggered from the press with moans from the '38 secretary for a puny 39-lotter turn-out. 
"By the grace of God and a meat axe we are able to report the following: 
"Bill 'Lefty* Jordan is working out of Chi­cago as representative of the D.nprato Statuary Co. O'Boyle says things are looking brighter in the statuary game. How about a solid block of granite depicting an alumnus writing to the class secretary? Or should we be modernists and compound the statue from an outboard motor, a French cruller, and t\vo whalebone corset stays? 
"Bucky Jordan and Gene Ling are both with the Chicago 'Tribune,' which sheet will be busy again next year 'turning the rascals out* (not Ling or Jordan, we trust). Wc understand Jordan is in the advertising end of the game, as for Ling—^we can't imagine. 
"Pete Johnen, who tickles a very mean piano­forte, is connected with, running, or running from, a tavern on Chicago*s South Side. 
"Back at Har\-ard, for his third year of study there, is Jim O'DonnclL It is authoritatively re­ported that Jim is holding up the candle of learn­ing we laggards allowed to droop. 
"Duke Nardone and brother Bill are thumping the tomes at Georgetown. Duke is boning at the law while Bill is in medical school. Bet\veen them they'll sew you or sue you. 'Pay your money—take your choice.' 
"Traditional cigars, we understand, were doled out recently by Vince Murphy, who just missed being a politician. 
"Har\*ard law books still claim John Marbadi although there were a couple of front-row girls in New York who threatened to jump the claim for a while. But you know, John—the strong, silent. Blackstone type. 
"We have a crj'ptic note on Jerry Zeilcr. It seems the full name is now Jerry Zeiler. M.A. —we're not sure where or when he picked up the rumble-seat alphabet. But there it is and we drop a curtsy to a Master. 
"Jack 'Zeke' Cacklcy, who stopped off in Scranion, Pa., on his way to the N. Y. Fair lest summer, is still tracking do\vn stills for West Virginia Liquor Control Board. (Aside to Zeke: 'That Fair shore was a bltnger, eh Zeke? —^All bull and a yard wide') 
"Also in Scranton, but on a more permanent basis, are Frank Gallagher and O'Boyle. The latter spent the summer in the employ of the Scranton Tourist Bureau but is now back at his teaching position. 
""Wild BiU* Fallon is still travelling for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. and covering large slices of Ohio and Indiana. It seems he meets occasionally with Chick O'Reilly and Ed Ga%'an when the Met. allows him to slip over a border or two into Chicago. 
"Nobody ever hears from Parker Sullivan—the closest we ever got was a card from Paul Shecdy, obviously written and signed by Katie. And that's not very close for a Sullivan. 
"Arthur Dennis Cronin was recently the proud father of an 8^-pound daughter. Mother and daughter are in fine fettle. There was some doubt about the old man's condition for a while but his reserve came to the rescue. (No cigars yet.) 
"We haven't heard a peep out of Bob AlcCIain since we deserted that apartment snuggled up against the I.C. tracks in Chicago. We know it can't be the 'Herald-Examiner' anymore—^what's the story, Robert? 
"Joe Dreuckcr was in the Bend for a game or two. He's still in the Indianapolis area for that bottled air outfit from whom he blushingly accepts pay checks. 
"And with Dreuckcr we hit the end of the chore—not an unusual place to find Druecker, 
"You'd think that if even one per cent of all those beautiful theories aired in bull-session in the year 193G-1937 alone, were transferred to paper and mailed to the above address it would fill the pages. There's no extra charge for those west of the Rockies. z 
"With this we will insert a V-shaped gusset in the rear of our plus-fours and prepare to get out­side a sizable portion of the traditional Thanks­giving provender. 
"For after all—^Thanksgiving comes but twice a year." 
Alumni Office addenda: John C O'Donnell, ex. '37, South Bend, is now an analytic chemist in the Ball Band plant. Mishawaka. Norb Tinncs, Chicago, is likewise a Klishawaka man now, but Norb is an engineer in the Klishawaka Foundry Equipment plant. Harry Kochlcr is still another '57er on the local front, being assistant advertis­ing manager of the O'Brien Varnish Company, South Bend. (For further information about Harry, see "Marriages," this issue.) 
Phil Welsh, former leading man on "Scrip," is continuing at Har\*ard his brilliant exploits at Notre Dame: he was awarded a I^w School scholarship based upon his high scholastic rating in his second year of law work. Gene Haller is majoring in economic entomology (minor in plant pathology) in his graduate work at Oregon State College, Corvallis, Oregon. He was at the Uni­versity of Michigan last year for graduate work. Next year he hopes to be teaching. 
I O^f i Harold A. Williams, 216 East Lake I T^ O Avenue. Baltimore. Maryland. 
From Hal Williams: 
"It was like old times at the annual reunion and rally in the Manhattan Center on Friday night and around the Hotel Pennsj-Ivania bar on Saturday night the week-end of the Army game. 
"The perfume-scented gentlemen of Walsh, the Lyons toughs, the Dillon smoothies, the Alumni goldcoasters, and the old Freshman Hall mob, were there in force. 
"In bet^veen beers and talking to the fellows T jotted do^^•n a few haphazard notes. Here they are: 
"At the rally on Friday night I saw Ed Uniache. who is still ser\'ing as hotel clerk at the Hotel George Washington in New York. . . , Ed reported that his old sidekick. Hub Kirctunan, when last heard from, was chef in a Wilshire restaurant in Los Angeles. .. . I had a long and pleasant talk with Hugh O'Donncll. who is study­ing medicine at the Physicians and Surgeons College in New York. . . . We were joined by Ivan Ivancevic, who is temporarily out of a job. .. . I also saw Joe Kuharich at the rally. Joe. I understand, is coaching and teaching nt Vin­centian Institute in Albany. N. Y. , . . Also at the rally were: Jerrj- Rothline. Jack Firth, Dick Lahey (still in Philadelphia at the "Wharton School of Finance), Gene Dolan. Nel Vogcl, Tom Shcils. Leo Welch (still at Har\-ard), Ed Bart-nett. Bill Gallin, and Tony Sulcwski. 
"Vogel is now an accountant for Sunnyvilla Farms. Nel, incidentally, got his degree this past semester. Gallin is maintaining his lucky ways: he won two tickets for the Army-Notre Dame game, was awarded $150 damages recently in some accident case, and several weeks ago an­nounced his engagement to Miss Betty Ege. No date is set for the wedding. 
"At the Penn bar earlier in the evening I bumped into Gene Vaslett. Deacon Anton, and Frank Prusha. Deacon and Frank, who were on their vacation, were spending the week-end with Gene. They planned to Itave following the game for a visit to South Bend, and then go on to Iowa for the lowa-Noire Dame game. The Dea­con is still in the banking business (putting on more weight, too), and Frank has announced his engagement. Gene is still underwriting insur­ance. His address in Brooklyn is now 437 East 22nd Street. .. . I had dinner with Gene, Frank and Anton Saturday night at the German Ameri­can A. C.. and later spent a great deal of time with them at the Penn bar. 
"Charlie Callahan, after working at the New York World's Fair all summer inter\'iewing celeb­rities, is now a copy boy for one of the New York tabloids, I believe the 'News.' 
"Just l-cfore the game ended Saturday after­noon I saw Walt Duncan and his wife walk out one of the exits. After the game there was an impromptu reunion around the Notre Dame bench until the ushors cleared the stadium. 
"Johnny O'Connor, away from Notre Dame for the week-end, was there along with his buddy, Johnny Wilson (still at N.D. taking Law). Bill Costello, Chic Gallagher, Johnny Kellcy (still sell­ing insurance up in Maine and growing balder by the minute), Joe Clifford (who reported that his brother John is in Buffalo for the Grant Five and Dime stores), and Bob Leonard. Boh had with him a very charming young lady. Her name, I believe, was l^Iiss Beverly Orem. Bob an­nounced that he and Beverly were to be married in the Log Chapel November 11. Bob is working for one of DuPont's subsidiaries in Scaford. Del. 
"Oh yes, also at the stadium I saw Jack Lun­frren and Joe Judge. Joe. you will recall, was a member of our class until the junior year when he had to drop out because of illness. I also was told by someone that Jack Watd was married in Xew York on June 2 to Miss Norma Hcrrinir. 
"That niRht at the Penn bar the '38 boys were wandering in and out all night. Besides those al­ready mentioned I saw Joe Callahan, late of the 
U.S. Army, and now empIoyc<I by the National Distillers in New York. . . . Johnny Schmitz of Tiffin, Ohio, now working in New York. . . . Johnny told me that Chuck Brosius is married and living in Baltimore and working for Haskins and Sells. 
"Standing near the bar was George Fitzpatrick. of Bellingham. Mass. George had just announced his engagemGnt to Miss Fran Ellis, of Boston. They are to he married in June. George is still teaching school in Btjllingham. 
"After talking to Fran and George 1 ran into Art Philson, still taking medicine at Cornell. Bob Webster, working for the Dow Chemical Co., in Midland, Mich., Dick Scanncll, working for the Commercial Investment Trust Co. in Hartford, Tommy Mulligan, down from Kar\'ard Law (Tom­my, who is doing tine at Har\-ard, said that John Schcmmer. the class valedictorian, is ranked in the first ten at Harvard Law), and Pete Mc-Carron. 
"I also ran into Joe O'Boylc, Rus Rcdgate (who is still employed in Bridgeport as a star reporter), Joe Messick, and George Kecnan. George told me that he had spent several weeks in Europe but his trip was curtailed because of war. He is now working for a warehouse firm in Bay­onne, N. J., and lecturing before clubs on his European trip. Having the time of his life around. the bar was Luke Ticrnan, one of two 
N.D. men in recent months to make AVincheirs column. Luke is the same as ever and that about covers all the territorj'. 
"At the bar Vogel told me that Phil Gallctta had spent the summer working in the Little Old New York concession at the AVorld's Fair. . . . Vogel also passed along the information that he heard that Paul Psik, who was always so chum­my with visiting stage celebrities in South Bend, is teaching English in Chicago. 
"Several issues ago T casually mentioned that Jack Zerbst was moved to India by his company. Two days'after the mag was out a hot letter of dental came from Jack who was stationed in Philly. "Well, once again the rumor comes up. Saturday night I heard that Jack had really gone to India and would be stationed there for three years at S275 a month! 
"I almost forgot to mention that Gene Vaslett is also going to night school at New York Uni­versity, taking a B.A. in statistics. 
"At-three o'clock in the morning I thought my reporting was over but going up in the elevator to my room I bumped into Duck Mays, who was down from Har\'ard Law for the week-end. 
"Also in the Penn bar Saturday night was Charley Duke, who is still working for Joe Pet­ritz in the sports publicity office at N.D. Charley and I had a swell chat and he took me into the Mad-hatten room to listen to Artie Shaw's or­chestra. 
"Sunday morning in the lobby of the Penn I met Walt 'Babe' Marshall, who is now coaching football in Shamokin. Pa. Walt also scouted Army during the season. 
"Tiger McGrath was in New York for the week-end, but I didn't get to see him. In a re­cent letter he gave an account of his trip: He stated that he spent his spare time hanging around the Waldorf bar, saw two girls from St. Mary's in the German American, chatted with Frank Hardart, Jim Waldron, and the three Huisking brothers early Sunday morning, and then went back to Washington and his law books at C. U. 
"At the Friday night rally I also talked with Jim Armstrong, Joe Pctritz, and Joe Boland. all looking hale and hearty. From other classes I spotted John Moran, DeLancey Davis, Cy Stroker, Eddie Hoyt, William P. 'Boots' McCarthy, Jim Waldron, and several others whose names escape me at present. 
"From the '39 class I saw John Starkie. Bill Donnelly, Frank Cunningham. Frank O'Laughlin. Andy Wilson, OIlic Helland. Bill Waters. John Kohn, Tom Zicglcr. Tom Gorman, and Jim Raaf. 
"I have a feeling that I have forgotten several of the boys that I saw, but for the life of me I can't think of any more names or news in con­nection with the New York trip. To those whose names I have omitted, a sincere apology and a request for a !ct*tr or card. 
"A sv.-ell letter from Don Hickcy (oh yes. I saw his father in New York, also Father Mac-Nsmara) and here it is: 'I have three separate occasions to report en this time: first, the boys who were in at enrollment time. Jchn Murrin, still at Har\-ard, brought his trother up for the first year. Doc Tobin brought up a local lad from Elgin. Doc is still studying medicine at Chi­cago. Tom Funk also ganged up on a local boy and coerced him into going to N.D. Tom is still making "cokes" and promoting the Anderson (Ind.) "Anacondas" baseball team. Don Currier came in with a freshman brother, as did Leo Welch. Don is as yet the luml>er king of Detroit. Bob Mazancc came through about this time after a two weeks' vacation (fishing) in Michigan and is driving a nice new Ford convertible. Mat saw Jay Dutmcrs on his trip and reports that Jay is an executive with an ice cream carton company in Grand Rapids. Maz also mentions that Al Butler, his old roomie, is in Washington. D. C, with the American Air Lines.' 
" *The Purdue game brought in a mob of the *3S boys—mostly from Indianapolis. "PufiFy" Car­son. Bob Langcr (who is getting married soon), Tom Fitzgerald, Eddie Kilrain. "Kokomo" Carey. Pat Carey was also in, as were Morric Kennedy and Don Fisher. Of course Maz was in. as was Owen Kane. The whole gang was out at the Lincoln Highway Inn. The Bend representatives were listed also: John Plouff. Charlie Dnke. Chuck Swcencj-, and myself. Representing Mich­igan at the L.H. were Joe Moore and John Fox.' 
" 'There weren't so many in for the Southern Methodist game, but saw Ted Flannigan, all the way from BufTalo, Bob DuBois, Ralph Pope, Bob Tharingcr. and the old politician, Scottic Rear* don, who came all the way from South Dakota. Phil Bayer, Hook Kenvin. Paul Nowak, and Tom­my Wukovits, were the only ones I saw in at the Georgia Tech game.* 
" 'I think half the '3S class was at the Navy trame in Cleveland. The Statler Hotel was the gathering point for our boys to the music of George Hall, the Notre Dame dance which was run by Mazancc Johnny Kane was in and look­ing swell . . . big Chuck Macaluso and Harry Fox were together. Pete Shcchan was the local lad who took care of things in a fine way. Also present were: Tom Kavanaugh and his fiance. Jim Foley, J. J. Gorman (on a cane and it wasn't icy), and Vic Beck. Lou Fox of Fort Wayne was down. Coach Joe "Red" Glcason was present, also J. P. Mahoney, George STagce, John Clifford, and Buzz Mannix. The Cleveland boys were Dick Jenncy, Tom Rini. and Bob Hackman. Duke and Plouff were also down. . . .' 
"Hick concluded his letter by saying that he and Plouff were planning on taking in the Iowa game. I know Hick was at the game because he spotted the game for the Mutual faroadeastins company and got a nice blow at the end of the broadcast. 
"Thanks for the wonderful letter. Hick. On you is bestowed the Blue Ribbons with Palm award for the best letter of the month. 
"And now a letter from vivacious Nidc berto. Let Nick do the talking: 'Sorry I couldn't make Tom Hntchinson's wedding, but I was in Iowa then celebrating my unconditional release from the Hearst organization. I had seven weeks* pay to coast on so I enjoyed myself (two weeks in lieu of two weeks' notice, two weeks 'cause I worked there a year, two weeks' vacation pay, and a regular pay). Pm now working for the Hines Lumber Co., and taking their training course. .. . Johnnie Beer, my loving roomie, em­ployed by Montgomery Ward Co.. is in the throes of one of his quarterly loire affairs. . . . Charlie Slorrovr, who works for the Fitzpatrick Soap Co. in Chi. comes up to listen to the games Saturday. Ken Laws, pre-med grad of '36. dropped over Sat­urday night. He is getting his degree at N.U. med school in January. Bad Best, from Peoria, is also there. . . . Phil Kirch went back to Des Moines. Red Shea got an insurance job in Chi. Dan Ryan is back in Rushville. Ind., but fre­quently drops into the city. Saw Joe Ructz this summer after a Cub ball game.* 
" *John and I were on our way to eat one night when we ran into John Boorke and his feminine friend. . . . Bob McClain, '37, formerly of the "Her-Ex" is still unemployed. . . .' 
"Johnny Beers enclosed a fine letter. He added that he was down to the Purdue game but didn't see many of the fellows. He also mentioned that he and Nick planned on making the Northwestern game. 
"Thanks Nick and Johnny, and come again. 
"On October 31 I received a long and rambling letter from Jake Lechner. He states that he handles most of the big tax estates in St. Joseph's County, Ind, for his father who is inheritance tax appraiser and county assessor. His law practice, he says in his characteristic bragging manner, is slowly growing. And then he rambles on- to say. 'I have written a stor>- with a moral which 1 have sent to the "Sunday Visitor." I have been having such beautiful thoughts lately that I am almost becoming frightened. If the "Visitor" accepts the story I will send you a copy. I think the story is pleny good which, of course, doesn't mean anything as I always have had a grudging admir­ation for my own work. The story is vague and mystical and doesn't have a lot of point, which means it is great literature' If no news is forth­coming for the next issue of the 'Alumnus* I'll get a copy of the story and run it in this col­umn. . . . That should please Lechner and also bring home to our readers that what they are getting now isn't so bad after all. . . . 
"In today's mail I received two letters: one from Bnd Sherwood and the other from Bernard 'Babe' LeRoy. Says Sherwood; *Am now living in North Tarrytown, N. Y., and working for the Chevrolet Co. I still have the four tickets for the Southern Cal game. Do you know of anyone who would like them? Some more of my good money shot. . . .' Shenvood and I had planned on mak­ing the Southern Cal trip, but, what with his transfer from Flint, our plans were shot. Sher­wood's address, just for record,, is 17 Beekman Avenue, North Tarrytown, N. Y. 
"LeRoy writes this interesting letter: 'After I left Notre Dame I entered Wisconsin State Teachers College to get a state teacher's license. This past September I secured a job in a Cath­olic high school in Oshkosh. Wis. I was appointed athletic director and head football and basketball coach. My football team this year won three games, lost one, and had two scoreless ties. Six points is all that crossed our goal line. I should have a good team next year because most of the boys will be back.* 
" 'At the present I am trying to bnild a cham­pionship basketball team. We leave on our first road trip of the year within the next few hours, and it will start the third grame of an IS-game schedule.' 
" "Bob Crockett was with the Grace Lines the last time I heard of his whereabouts. I hope to hear from Dan Keefe within the next few days. He is in Ashton, Rhode Island, I believe. Paul KelU '39, is doing swell in pro football with the Green Bay Packers. . . .' 
"Thanks, 'Babe' for the thoughtful letter, and the best of luck with your basketball team. And regards to the overall manufacturers. . . . 
"Now for a few odds and ends and I'll have this column finished. From a recent issue of the 'Scholastic' I clipped this: 'Recognition in the form of publication of articles in "Current Legal Thought," the Lawj-ers Digest of Law Reviews, v.'ss recently awarded to Louis DaPra and Leon Lancaster, senior lawyers and staff members of the Notre Dame "Lawyer." DaPra wrote on "Workmen's Compensation—Continuing Jurisdic­tion of Industrial Board Due to Change in Condi­tions" and Lancaster knocked oft his review on "Liability of an Unlicensed Automobile Oper­ator." * 
"About a month ago the 'Religious Bulletin* asked for prayers for the deceased brother of Ed Bartnett. That's all except that I understand that the two Mnlhcm boys. Art and Jim» are now at Harvard Law. 
"Merry Christmas! Put an extra note about yourself and your pals on that Christmas card." 
Notes from the Placement Bureau front: Red* man Dasgan. who got his master's at Notre Dame last June and who has been here again this year helping Dr. Gurian with the "Review of Politics," has just clicked with the old age in­surance division of the Social Security Board. On January 1 he will go to Washington, D. C. for six months training and after that will be stationed in the Denver headquarters of the Board. 

George Elmore, South Bend, is with Stude­baker's and some of his art work graced a recent edition of the Studebaker "Spotlight," employee paper. 
Jack Freedy, erstwhile Press Club maestro, :s now in Hibbing, Minnesota, at 2329^ Fourth Avenue East, where he is a staff writer for the Zhiluth "News Tribune and Herald," which. Jack says, covers the entire northern half of Minne­sota. Up there in the frozen north. Jack would appreciate a word from some of the old gang. 
Al Grimm, his brother Father Richard Grimm, C.S.C, reports, is working for a "labeling con­cern" in Peoria, Illinois. (And they use lots of labels in Peoria from what we hear.) 
Channcey Iilidiae] Rooney, back from South America, is now a junior, engineer with the acetate division of duPont in Waynesboro, Vir­ginia, where he is working under Bill Lawless, '2L All of which is an excellent instance of co­operation in Notre Dame placement: Upon his return to New York, C. Michael talked with John Balfe, head of the New York placement work; John sent him to Bill Lawless in Waynes­boro, Virginia, and Bill, happily, was able to give him a job. 
Among the 10 men just added to the South Bend police force is one Charles C. Borowski, 'n'bom you remember as the able outfielder and captain of the 1938 baseball team. Another N. D. man in the same group is Ed Bcrgan. ex. '34. Both of them were selected after rigorous, non­polidcal tests which had the objective of raising materially the standards of the local police de­
partment. All of the new policemen are high school graduates and many of them have at­tended college. 
Mncent DeConrsey, 251 N. 15th St^ 1939 Kansas City, Kansas. 
From Vince De Conrsey; 
"This month's offerings were almost as scarce as touchdowns at Iowa, if you know what I mean. The hoys with the cards didn't so much as come through with a postcard; if it weren't for un­expected letters (for which thanks) the good old 'Scholastic' would have to again fill in a lot of space for the 'Alumnus.' [That split infinitive is the sole property of the former Managing Ed. of the "Scholastic"—^Eds.] 
"We attended the Iowa game and punctuated the 'you-know-what' with frequent breast-beatings and prayers that they set going. If it weren't for the sight of some of the 'old grads* the w-eek­end would have been a complete washout. Dick Casey, the pride of the front row in Economics 222, was unaccountably a student in the phar­macy school at Iowa U. and rooting hard for the losing team. Among memories were: Denny Emmanuel, Med School at Iowa; Jack Anton and Bill Sheehan in from Chicago; the Delaney boys from Burlington, Iowa, and there were several others whose names escape just at the moment. It would have been a fine time if only ! 
"We %vere resplendent in wedding array at the nuptials of Dorothy Dugan and Thomas HcGce Reardon, which went off in fine style Jn mid-November. Wish more of the boys could have come, it was a g-r-e-a-t occasion. 
"The letter forwarded by Frank Reppcnhagen was quite a pleasant surprise. The ex-'Dome' editor among other things reported that he 'spent the Army week-end with BUI Waters, who is now employed by Montgomer3*-Ward and Co. Saw a flock of fellows at the Pennsylvania last week-end, including Gene Vaslett, Jim Wal­dn>n, Jim DeLancey Davis, Tom Powers (from w*hom more later), John Staiide, Ollie Helland. Jim Tormcy is working in New York and says that his former roomie's Brown team has lost several games, but it wasn't the fault of the end plays; roomie, of course, being Ear! Brown . . . spent a week-end at Cornell visiting Paul Donavan and Phil DcCrocco, who are study­ing law. Bob Femhach, *38, of Buffalo, is ranked second in his law class/ 
"Tom Foy, from way out in Los Angeles,' dropped out of his one-man campaign for 'Ham and Eggs' long enough to say that he is with Richfield Oil Co., not Union Oil as previously reported. Foy says: Tom Kalman wrote that he is enrolled in the Law School at the University of Pennsylvania. Tom Kennedy is in the same school. He says Dan Shcedy and George Demp­scy are enrolled in "WTiarton School of Finance. Sweeney Tuck tried out for the Ii. A. Bulldogs, the local pro football team. He looked plentj­good, but there were so many old timers on band that he didn't get the job. I understand that be is working for the Department of Water and Power—I don't know just what his duties are.' 
"That old smartie, Fred Sisk, whote a letter that still has me gasping; just because some of the boys go to college they have to go around showing off how smart they are and use words that most of ns can't understand. How is this for an example: 'Therefore, certain stipulations must be laid down about the contents of the doal purpose, which this letter proposed to do. The main condition is that it will furnish yon "vnth sufficient evidence of my whereabouts, i-C the University of Michigan Law School, which has been mauling me over for something like six weeks (Nov. 4). Also that William C«rroIl~-he runs under a middle initial of *E'—from Detroit, is also being subjected to the same legal atmo­sphere hereabouts. As a matter of fact,BiU and I were co-counsels to an argument in Case Club last week and won our case after doing much thumbing through books, writing a brief, and finally arguing our point before senior law school judges who a\varded us with the decision chiefly tfarough charity. Again, on the information ride, Pete Bfartin and Jim Johnson are taldng carving lessons on cadavers in the Michigan Medical School.* 
"Enclosed with the legalistic language and little sense was a clipping from the "Morning Ught' of Trinidad. Colorado, daily except Sunday and Monday, w*ith a headline the size usually reserved for declaration of war or the assassination of a president, announcing that: 'Arizona Warned! Sisk is Coming.* Such popularity must have some basis. Fred's address, by the W'ay, is 1134 Forest Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich. 
"My folks attended the Northwestern game and reported seeing Charley Nelson, but had no other information on his whereabouts. As a last resort, unless a letter comes shortly, we'll have to write Mr. Nelson ourselves. 
"And speaking of not writing, the meds, as usual, are up to par. When is someone going to write and let the rest of the class know w*hcre the whole outfit is stationed? Of course, this is no statement that ^everyone would be interested, but perhaps someone might care to sec thir repu­tation besmirched by being linked with Blank U.. when it should have been "Whoosis College. 
"In regard to the get-together in the Pennsyl­vania after the Army game, Tom Powers must have been scribbling on menus all evening to have collected all the facts he did. The old artist writes on: 'Ollie Helland, all the way from Wis­consin, and away from his work (father's hotels) engrossed in conversation with his two third-floor Walsh pals. Dick Lucke. and Daniel Patrick O'Brady Kelly (whom I have not yet sufficiently thanked for some unethical ethics). Bank of Man­hattan employee and hired man of some oil company, respectively. Bob Ortalc, down from law school in Albany, gives out that Willie Cap­pillino is running for justice of the peace up around Highland. N. Y., his neck of the woods. Frank Clark and Photographer Starkie, we be­lie\*e, are up at Harvard Business School. News also came out that Burrhead (none other than Bemie, we presume) Fagan and old roomie Nick Anrheim have or are about to take the steps down the aisle. John Ennis reports that Walt Cotton has headed back west to take a job in Niles— for his pop-in-Iaw to be.' 
" 'Bob Carmody also showed up looking as prosperous as usual, fast freight out of Chicago. Jim Coffey was down from Springfield, INIass., where he's going to school—heading later for med school. The two Franks — Cunningham and O'Laughlin — were on hand although we weren't able to learn their occupations. [Ed. note: Har­vard.] Loa Demer, George Dcmpsey, Stumps Turiano (looking for DeCrocco) also blessed the gathering with their presence. Larry Doyle tells us that he's working for his dad; Bob FitzStm­mons and Jack McAoliffe also had little to say about their occupations (Jack is newspapering in Syracuse). Ed Kort is working for Max Fleischer in Miami. Joe P. Sullivan is in the apple business with his dad. Sully said that Joe Kinnealy is operating a wholesale market with brother Tom. Jim Tormey and Ed Van Hoene are employed somewhere around New York.' Then Tom finally got around to saying that he w*as in X«onia, New Jersey, on a newspaper syndicate job. It's a shame that there aren't more football games in New York, maybe we could learn some­thing of the rest of the boys. 
"From St. Louis, 9117 Clayton Road, to be exact. Jack GrifHn writes: 'I see quite a bit of John Pan] "Monk" Snlli^-an. He came down from Omaha to visit me in July and ended up a resident of St. Louis, an employee of the Viking Freight Ck>. He received his first promotion a 
month ago and is dolns a fine job. Fred Stnb­bins stopi;>ed by for an hour or so in August. He was working for his father—had one week to cover seven states. Jim McGoldrick spent 10 days or so with me in September. Hofer, Tonelli, Bcinor, and Jim really showed St. Ixiuis some football when they aided in the All Star victory over the St. I.ouis Gunners. McGoIdrick made quite an impression on the St. Louis people. He addressed the Cooperative Club, Kiwanis, Alum­ni Association, and a ^ou p of orphans.' Then Jack added something about women, I dunno what he meant.—said Jim could explain better. 
"More: 'I see Doc Nigro now and then around the St. Louis U. Med School. Bill Callahan is at Washinfrton U. AfcGoIdrick. Fat Mallor, Bill Castleman, Johnny McGaire looked over the Euro­pean situation during the summer. In mcntion-Ins my old roomie. Rod Tronsdale. being with Smith Brothers, you misrht add that Chub Hall is also associated with them.* 
I " 'As for myself I am with the Ohio Finance Co. in the St. Louis oflice. If you need any money, see us (and if you want to know how to spend it, see me) the only finance company with • a tender conscience. The St. Louis office is man­aged by Paul Navarre, '26. I'd like to hear from some of the rats of Rat Alley: Bud Focke, Vincc Dollard, Rod Trousdale, etc' 
 "Dick Anton wrote apoIosizinK for not coming to the Reardon wedding; accepting this we prom­ise to write before' Christmas- Dick also says: 'met- John E. Walsh (by the way, John, old man, it is about time we heard from you) in one of the local 'pubs and pumped him for this: Hnsh Gar­vey is prefecting in Alumni (which, knowing Gan'cy. calls for an explanation and a demand to know how he and his chum, the "Spook." arc getting along). Hank Rago is living alone in the Engineering building. John hoard a rumor that Haskins and Sells sent Jim Walsh to the deep South. John Walsh is selling insurance for the Franklin Life Insurance Company and claims to be working 24 hours a day—also adds that he spends most of his commissions entertaining pros­pects.* 
"From Tex Greene, just a few da>'S ago, came a veo* nice letter and we will welcome more from the same source. 'After leaving S. B. last June I came home for a few days and then went to work in the West Texas Oil fields for my father's company (Greene PYod. Co.) We completed one well in July—then cleaned out several on another lease, and wound up in Fort Worth. I've seen Phil North a few times—he's working with the Fort Worth "Star-Telegram," (ending specula­tions as to whether Kansas City had him on the famous "Star").' 
" *A couple of weeks ago I went to Austin. Texas, city of legislation, education and recrea­tion. It was a surprise to run into Fred Simon. He's enrolled in the Law School at Texas U., he likes it a great deal. Stopped at St. Ed's, well-known winter resort, and it was a real pleasure to Und Father Reynolds.' 
" 'You probably remember the demon of Mor­rissey Sub, Jack Collins, of West Virginia. He's been in and out of here most of the summer. Jack is dressing tools in Snyder, Texas, for Murphy and Lamb, drilling contractors.' 
"Tex would have some of the boys from Sorin write him and so would I. His list, and mine too, would include: Butch Kamm, Paul KcUey, Walt Johnson, Andy Gannon and Paul DuCharme. 
"Now. Mr. Dooley, I hope that this will be enough for the month. Perhaps the spirit of Christmas will persuade some of the boys to write, at least enough to drop in a Christmas card with a note as to their whereabouts and occupa­tions. Myself, am happy, hard at work learning what makes the stock market tick and wondering why it isn't doing that right now, taking a few correspondence courses from the Exchange, and quite a bit of sleeping. But one of these days 
I'll get down and write some of those letters that have been hanging around for almost a month 
The Placement Bureau sez: Joseph John Solli­van is a branch manager for the New Bedford (Mass.) "Standard-Times." Bob Wilson, South Bend, is doing further work at the University, under Dr. R* M. Kaczmarek. Dan Fftlaioni, ex. '39, is now with the U. S. Veterans Administra­tion, Batavia, New York. 
Norb Aleksis is in the Columbia Law School, New York City, and AI Pacetta is ditto in St. John's, Brooklyn. Greg Rice Is working for the Indiana & Michigan Electric in South Bend, while training with Nick for the Olympics, if any. Incidentally, Greg took second behind Don Lash in the recent national senior A.A.TT. cross­country championship. Greg forced Don to a new record and, while doing so, broke leash's former record.' 
Louis Radelet is a graduate assistant in the Department of Sociology on the campus. Through a contact made by the Placement Bureau. Tom Sullivan is now working for the Central Hanover Bank & TVust Company, New York City, after some temporary work through John Balfe for the national convention of the National Catholic Alumni Federation. Joe Lewis is with the B. F. Goodrich Company, CIarks\'ille, Tenn., according to his brother John, a present student. Paul Kel­ley. South Bend, is in trainins with the Equit­able Life, Chicago, and li\-Ing at 1250 Lake Shore Drive. 
Al Respondck is a graduate student in the Electrical Engineering Department. University of Texas, Austin. Edward Stack and Art Coscarelli are both with Camegie-lllinois Steel in the South Chicago plant. Tom Roche, formerly of Cleve­land, is now living at 48-QS Glenwood Street, Little Neck, L.I., New York. Joe Harrington has changed from the Grace organization and is now an inspector in the Bureau of Customs, Panama; his address is Box 43, Colon. 
ADDITIONAL SPORTS 

BASKETBALL 
Coach George Keogan's seventeenth season as Notre Dame's head basketball coach is off to a flying start with suc­cessive victories over Kalamazoo, Val­paraiso, and Cincinnati. The scores: 
Notre Dame, 62; Kalamazoo, 34. Notre Dame, 63: Valpanuso, 26. Notre Dame, 5-1: Cincinnati, 17. 

But that's the end of the warm-ups, and the rest of the card promises much sterner competition. The other 18 games follow: 
Dec. 12_ —Wisconsin at Notre Dame Dec 16-—Michisan at Ann Arbor Dec 22_ -Soothem California at Notre Dame Dec 27_ Illinois at Champaign Dec. 30_ Northwestern at Evanston Jan. 6 Syracuse at Notre Dame Jan. 13-T^nnfiinlfy at Notre Dame Jan. 16_ 
—I Butler at Notre Dame Jan. 20_ —Pennsylvania at Philadelphia Jan. 27--Northwestern at Notre Dame Feb. 3 Illinois at Notre Dame Feb. 10 New Yorlt U. at Madison Sq. Garden Feb. 12 Toledo U. at Toledo Feb. 17_ -John Carroll U. at Notre Dame Feb. 20-Marquette at Notre Dame Feb. 26-Butler at Indianapolis Marquette at Milwaukee March 9_ Detroit at Detroit 
The characteristics of the 1939-40 team are a lack of reserve strength, of­fensive punch, and absence of strong defense at this writing. Reserves may develop, the ability to score should stick, and the intricate Keogan shifting man-for-man method of stopping enemy of­fensives has always required work and time. The estimates g^ven here are sub­ject to revision, of course, after two or three games against tougher competi­tion. It might be added that the squad lacks height, but not quite so greatly as did last year's unit. 

Eddie Kiska, last year's high scorer with 200 points, is back at one forward, with 37 points for three games; while Eddie Sadowski, ball - hawking wheel-horse of the team for two years, has been graduated. Replacing him is George Sobek, six-footer from Ham­mond, Ind., who scored 12 points in the opener, couldn't hit for more than four against Valparaiso, and then climbed up to six against Cincinnati. 
Most promising reserve forwards are Ken (Red) Oberbruner, letterman sen­ior, with the fast-moving hands, decep­tive passes, and a fair eye for the bas­ket; and Sammy Yezerski, junior re­serve who specializes in point-getting. 
Capt. Mark Ertel, 6-foot 4-inch cen­ter, is the only returning regular be­sides Riska. Ertel appears to have found himself, and to have gained confidence since the beginning of last season. He is more willing to mix it, and he is im­proved on defense and on follow-up shots. His passing leaves little to be desired, and he is a fair shot. Alternat­ing with him is Rex Ellis, senior letter­man, who is 6 feet 3 inches tall, husky, and full of fire. 
The guard posts vacated by Captain Earl Brown and Paul DuCharme have been filled, at least temporarily by Gene Klier, senior letterman, and Larry Ryan, junior reserve who was set back by weak arches last year. Both are fine shots, but they need work on defense. Klier fouled out of the first game in the first half, and had three before the in­termission against Valpo. But he is settling down nicely. 
Bob Smith, junior reserve, has been guarding as well as Ryan and Klier, and shooting just about as well. He may come into the first team picture — at least he'll be used a lot. Bemie Crim­mins, sophomore right halfback star, has the makings of a fine guard, but he needs work, having just finished football. 
The schedule is strictiy major league the rest of the way with the possible exception of John Carroll and Toledo, and if Coach Keogan can maintain his all-time percentage of .776 we want to be the first to congratulate him. 
SqSe5atgJtgftiggcaarc?&t^r«gqt^riggtaggg^^^ 

BOOK REVIEW 
(By Joseph Breig, '27, former Scholastic Editor, in the Pittsburgh, Pa., Sun-Telegraph, Dec. 1, 1939.) 
"LESSONS IN LIBERTY" 
A Study of God in Government 
By CLARENCE MANION 
University of Notre Dame Press — ^1.50 
There is no democracy without God. As William Penn put it, men either are ruled by God, or they are ruled by tyrants. That is the diesis of this book, written with shattering clarity by the professor of Constitutional Law at the University of Notre Dame. 
Professor Manion remarks that Columbus discovered America just in the nick of time to rescue men from tyranny. And we must remark that Prof. Manion WTote this book just in the nick of time to rescue American minds from the tyranny of falsehood, and restore them to the freedom of a clear understanding of their heritage. 
Tliere is no other book like it. And if this generation has produced a volume more timely and more valuable fir to Americans, we have nor seen it. It ought to be 
I 
P. studied in the schools: it ought to be read by adults; it ought to be urged by all patriotic groups, and by all churches. 
Here is the heart of it: 

'"Without God, man is a mere tool of the state: with God, the state is the tool of man. Between these two conceptions there is no middle ground. Either we believe in God, and therefore believe in individual liberty' and individual immor­tality; or we deny God, and take our chances in a mad, materialistic stampede." 
No atheist could have signed die Declararion of Independence. No atheist can logically subscribe to it today. It was a revolution of believers; for it asserted, for the first time in human history, that men have their rights from God, which no man can take away; and that the function of government is to protect those rights; and that outside of protecting those rights, no government .has any just powers. 
I 

I '"LESSONS IN 
g By Professor Clare nee 
I 
I 

Clarence E. "Pat" Manion, '22 
Prof. Manion e.vamines the Declaration. "IVc hold these truths to be selj-erident...." Truths in 1776— and truths today. "That all men are created...." They owe their e.vistence to God. "... . created equal...." Equal in the sight of God. "That they are endowed by 
I 

their Creator vith certain unalienable rights...." 
And there collapses the All-powerful State, smashed 
i

by the higher power; God, who gives men rights that no state may violate. I
I 

Under this white light. Prof. Manion e.\poses the 
I 

maggots of materialism; of Fascism and Communism 
5 

and the rest; of what he calls the Pagan All-Powerful State. His book, if read, will do more for our American­ism than all the flag-waving and speech-making in the world. 
i

It's not the book of the month. It's the book of our rimes for Americans. We hope it sells 130 million copies—and then we wish it could go overseas and free the minds of die rest of mankind. 
I

 LIBERTY" 
"Pat'' Man ion 
g Every alumnus should read this thought-provoking volume on die meaning of citizenship. The pen of S "Pat" Manion tells a fascinating story worthy of one of the nation's most gifted orators. 5 
g Only $1.50 Check or C. O. D. (10 percent discount 5 or more copies.) 
I 

I THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, NOTRE DAME, INTDIANA ^ THE Christmas g ' f t for friends of Notre Dame men. g 




