The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
* —* 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
VOL. VII CONTENTS FOR MAY. 1929 No. 9 
Sacred Heart Church Ambrose O'Connell Withdraws as Candidate. Eloquence Lives at Notre Dame Stadium Assured—1929 Games in Chicago. Presidents' Page Athletics '. Sacred Heart Chui-ch to Be Redecorated The Alumni Clubs Commencement Program The Alumni 
.Frontispiece 
269 270 271 ; 272 - 273 275 276 280-281 284 

The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1897. All corres­pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AIMEKICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDER.\TION 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
OF THE 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EDWARD J. MAURUS, '93 ------ Honorai-y President DON HAMILTON, '12 ---------- President WILLIAM A. DRAPER, '07 ------- Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 -------- Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, '12 --------- Treasurer ALFRED C. RYAN, '20 ---------- Director GEORGE M. MAYPOLE, '03 --------- Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 --------- Director JOHN P. MURPHY, '12 -------(ex officio) Director 
_._._._———————— ._._———————.
*— 

Sacred 3Veart Ghurch 
1868'ig^i 
(See Page 275) 



f THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 1 
A magazine which seelcs to unify Notre Dame spirit among Notre Dame alumni; to keep alive the friendliness and democracy of the campus when campus days are gone; to acquaint Notre Dame alumni with the development of the University, and the broader devd­opment of the principles of Catholic education; to organize alumni activity so that it may better and in a greater measure attain its ends; to live in print as Notre Dame men live always, "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." 
Ambrose 0*Connell IVithdraws As Candidate 
Mr. James E. Armstrong, Secretary Alumni Association, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
Dear Jim: 
1 hereby withdraw as a candidate for the office of president of the Notre Dame Alum­ni Association. 
This is a period in the history of the or-p.anization which requires a genuine spirit oi enthusiasm and good will, and I feel that this can be obtained by making the election of Judge Eggeman unanimous. 
Permit me to express my sincere appre­ciation of the honor that has been conferred upon me in being named for this high office and to thank the many friends who have worked in my behalf. 
Sincerely yours, 
AMBROSE O'CONNELL. 

It was •with sincere regret that the ALUMNUS received the above letter from Mr. O'Connell just before going to press. Both Mr. O'Connell and Judge Eggeman are excellent candidates and the ALUM­NUS had looked forward to a record vote among the membership. 
The ballots have been prepared and mailed, too late to withdraw Mr. O'Connell's name. The ALUMNUS hopes that the bal­lots vnil be filled out for the remaining can­didates and returned promptly. All ballots must be in by June 2, and if mailed, by June 1. 
THE NOMINEES (A Report of the Nominating Cominittees) 
Honorary President MARK M. FOOTE, A.B., '73, A.M., '75, Chicago (choice of both committees) President JOHN W. EGGEMAN, LL.B., '00, Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
Vice-President FRANK J. LONERGAN, LL.B., '04, Portland, Oregon. JAMES H. DEERY, LL.B., '10, Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Treasurer WALTER DUNCAN, Ph.B, '12, LaSalle, 111. (choice of both committees.) 
Director (4-year term) 

T. PAUL McGANNON, LL.B., '07, LL.M. '08, New York City. 
ALBERT G. FEENY, '12, Indianapolis, Ind. 
(President Don Hamilton becomes a mem­ber of the Board of Directors for 1929-1930 ex officio. The Alumni Secretary is appoint­ed by the Board of Directors.) 
LAETABE MEDAL PRESENTATION 
The presentation of the Laetare Medal for 1929 to Hon. Alfred E. Smith was made on April 7 in the Plaza Hotel, New York City. The ALUMNUS was forced to go to press before details of the pre­sentation, which was arranged by the Notre Dame Club of New York City, were available. These will be carried in full in the June issue. 

Eloquence Lives at Notre Dame 
All the glorious ti-aditions of oratory and debating at Notre Dame, all the memories of the brilliant men of the past, lived again on the Northwestern campus in Evanston, Friday, April 26. 
JAMES ROY, Champion 

James C. Roy, Fort WajTie, Indiana, a senior in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, appeared before seven of the most learned judges of oratory in this country, in competition ^^^th five men who, like himself, had stood out in district elimi­nations as the great collegiate orators. 
An achievement that i-anks with any in the history of the University rewai'ded Mr. Roy. He was given the unanimous decision of the seven judges. These men—Messrs. 
E. C. Mabie, U. of Iowa; R. R. Aurner and 
H. L. Ewbank, U. of Wisconsin; W. H. Yeager, U. of Illinois; Davis Edwards, U. of Chicago; James L. Lardner and C. D. Hardy, Northwestern U.—^lionored Mr. Roy for his oration and his delivery as few ora­tors have been honored. 
The contest is important. It is sponsored by the Interstate Oratorical Association, the oldest organization of its kind in the country. It represents one hundred and twenty-five of the leading colleges and Uni­versities. Many of the great orators of America have worn the laurel that now rests upon Mr. Roy. 
Mr. Roy's oration, "Twenty Thousand T^eagues Under the Sea," a plea against un­preparedness and an inadequate navy, was timely, and was delivered wth a polish that has not been without preparation. Mr. Roy's distinction follows a career at Notre Dame of hai'd work and steadj progress. He holds a record in the Breen Medal contest, having won second place in liis freshman year and first place the succeeding three years. He has been a member of the varsi­ty debating team for four years. 
Six weeks ago Mr. Roy won the Indiana State oi-atorical contest at Earlham College, Richmond. This was followed by a district victory at Monmouth College, Monmouth, 111., April 6. 
FRAXK KELLY, Coach 

This golden entry in the book of oratory at Notre Dame is not complete without add­ing the name of Professor Frank Kelly, an alumnus of Notre Dame, head of the de­partment of speech, whose excellent coach­ing and unquenchable enthusiasm have been valuable assets to the new champion. 
A3IERICAN LAW INSTITUTE JMEETS Dean Thomas Konop, of the College of Law, repre­sented Notre Dame at meeting of the American Law Institute, of which he is a member, at its meeting in Washington on May 9, 10 and 11. The convention gave the Dean a chance to renew many friendships he made while in Congress. 


Stadium Assured—1929 Games Played in Chicago 
(Season Ticket Sale Opens May 20th) 
Definite announcement of a new stadium 

at Notre Dame followed the closing of the 
forms of the April ALUMNUS. Wide pub­
licity has attended the decision. But for 
the "outlying alumni" a few details are in 
order. 
Cost -will approximate $750,000—seating 

capacity 60,000. Location will be just south 
of the present stands. The present stands 
will be removed, except for a section to ac­
commodate track meet crowds. It has also 
been brought out that a section of the Car­
tier Field stands were recently condemned 
as unsafe, speeding up the stadium decision. 
Arrangements are being made in plan­ning the new stadium to have railroad facilities brought out so that special trains can come direct to the stadium. 
Games have been booked with the Uni­versities of Pittsburgh, Pennyslvania and w'th Northwestern, among other prominent teams. It is rather generally accepted that the Navy will dedicate the new stadium in 1930. 
Season Tickets 

The sale of season tickets for the 1929 games in Chicago will open May 20th, ac­cording to J. Arthur Haley, business man­ager of athletics. Wisconsin, Drake and Southern California are included in the sea­son ticket, the cost of which is $10. Of this amount, $3 is payable with the order, the remaining $7 to be paid by September 1. 
Finance Plan 
G. A. Farabauffh, '04, K. K. Rockne, '14, 

J. A. Haley, '26, and H. E. Jones, '27, com­prise a finance committee which has worked cut a financing plan, based on the sale of bo:;es, which is expected to raise $250,000 to $300,000 so that work on the stadium can be begun immediately. The sale of boxes has been begun, and in the meantime no further details of the style of the stad­ium or the dates of construction and com­pletion are available. 
Tlie box plan includes 520 boxes, six seats each, which are being sold for a period of ten years at prices ranging from $1500 to SoOOO. The purchasers are guaranteed four home games each year, with a possible fifth varsity game, and admission to any special B team or high school games played in the stadium. Among other advantages used in promoting sales are: fixed seat location for ten years; first choice of tickets for all N. 
D. games away from N. D., schedules at 
N. D. including the leading teams of the country, new boxes larger than old and equipped by the Athletic Association for comfort, transferable ownership (with ap­proval of A. A.), brass plate with owner's name on box and owner's name on tablet at entrance to stadium, privilege of re-reserv­ing boxes at end of ten year period. 
During the next year, with space more plentiful, the ALUMNUS will treat the col­orful history of the present field, the car­eers of the men who playea upon it, and other interesting features, following at the same time the developments of the new stadium. In the meantime, the University is anxious that all alumni work toward the success of the new stadium. Additional de­tails can be secured by writing J. Arthur Haley, Business Manager of Athletics, No­tre Dame. 
FATHER HUDSON ILL 

Alumni friends of Rev. Daniel Hudson, C.S.C., for fifty years editor of the Ave Maria, and a leading fisure in American Catliolic journalism, will be pleased to learn that he is recovering from a recent illness which necessitated an operation. Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C., has heen acting as editor of the Ave Maria during Father Hudson's illness. 
GOLF COURSE DEVELOPS 

No definite date has been set for the opening of the new Notre Dame golf course. Delays, caused by the sudden death of Mr. Burke, its donor, and by adverse weather conditions this spring have advanced the date from May 1, this year, as originally planned, to next Fall at the earliest. In subsequence, the University has not yet formulated a policy for the course. 
HOYNES NIGHT 

In the rush of Universal Notre Dame Night, the April ALUMNUS neglected to report the success of the annual Hoynes Night banquet given by the N. D. lawyers in the lay faculty dining room. Judge M. 
M. Oshe of Chicago and Judge John Eggeman of Fort AVayne were the principal speakers. The tributes to the Colonel by his former students were in keeping with the splendid contributions he has made to the founding and development of the College of Law at Notre Dame. 
-WM—'—m^^m^^m^—m^—m^^m^—m^—m-^m^—m^—m'^^a~tifm 
1

^residenfs ^age* I 
I /'V " HERE is something rather imposing—^not to say ambitious—in the very ' f Cf3^ *^"^^ "Universal Notre Dame Night." We know what it means, but it is 1 « open to various interpretations. Happily, the very thing it does mean is | i the veiy finest thing it can mean. It means that Notre Dame men everywhere | I pause tonight, to think back and look back to tliis liistoric school, which helped f I so mightily to make them what they are, and sent them out to be men and to ^ I do the v/ork of men, in a world which after t^vo thousand years, in spite of all its s I woe and all its wickedness, still treasures the teaching of Him who for our 1 I sakes became a Man, a world still sweet with the gracious memoiy of her whose I I name is our name. Protestant, Catholic, Jew—^Notre Dame men tliis evening I 1 unite in a tribute of affectionate loyalty to this their college Home, a Catholic | i University, but a fostering mother, a time Alma Mater of all who have ever sat f 1 at her knee or laid their head on her kindly bosom. ? 
\ ' 
1 It is no exaggei-ation to say that the men of Notre Dame are eveiywhere. J i To her side they come from everj'Avhere, and with her parting benediction they f I leave, some of them, for the uttermost ends of the earth. Wherever they may j I be tonight, in Indian jimgles, on African plains, in the capitals of Europe, in the i i ice-fields of the frozen North, in every section of our beloved land, in Mexico, in i 1 Canada, in South and Centi-al America, I say to them, in the name of Notre i I Dame, that Notre Dame loves them still, believes in them, keeps liigh hopes of | 1 them, blesses them and prays for them ^vith no less than a mother's constancy | I and devotion: that however fares the battle, here a defeat, there a Aictoiy, for-f f tune's favorite today, and tomorrow fortune's outcast—Notre Dame has no msi-? f givings of the ultimate outcome: Notre Dame men win. "Soul is the sea we i I sail on"—and the souls of Notre Dame men are the souls of fighting men who i : know that the only real failure is quitting. • [ I There is reluctance to speak like tliis, even in a family gathering such as i E that which we are now enjoying. We'd rather have our pride in Notre Dame i [ taken for granted. But it has come home to me, more than ever, in the past I I few months how far the prestige of Notre Dame extends ... . = 
E 

I 1 1 Tliat prestige is destined to grow. Nobody can possibly prophesy what the ! i future has in store. But of tliis, I think, we may be sure. There will be no radical = T change in Notre Dame, least of all in the spirit of the school. That spirit is so i
I deeply rooted in tradition and the tradition is itself so strong that Notre Dame I I men ,of the future will simply be Notre Dame men of another generation: the i f hallmark will not change ... . 
1 

I Speaking of the Notre Dame spirit, its strong sense of tradition and its ele-I I ment of undying youthfulness, I am reminded of the conclusion of William Butler | 
• Yeats' play, "Kathleen ni Houlihan" in which the spirit of Ireland is represented | 
I as a poor old woman going about the country drawing recruits to her cause. She | has just left a house in which she has, by the force of her appeal, dra-\vn even ? the bridegroom from the bride. Immediately after she goes out a younger son j of the house enters, and those within ask him: "Did you meet an old woman , going the road?" No," he answers, "but I saw a young girl, and her walk was [ 
J like a queen." And that is Notre Dame. I 
• • tExcen'ts from an address by Kev. Charles L. O'Doimell, C.S.C., before the St. Joseph 
I Valley Alumni, Universal Notre Dame Night.) 
• 
I 

i FRANKLYN E . DOAN ATHLETICS 
I 
BASEBALL 

April 1 and 2—Daniel Baker 0, 2; X. D. 1, 8 April 3 and 4—Baylor 2, 6; X. D. 5, 12 April 5—Soutlieni Jlethodist a, X. D. 6. April 6—Texas A. luid M. 7; X. D. 4. April 18—^AVabash 0, X. V. a. April 22—Io«-a 1.^, X. D. C. April 24—Western State 1, X. D. 4. April 29—^Indiana 3, X. P. 3. May 1—^Wisconsin 4, X'. I). 3, ((11 innings) May 3 Iowa 2; X. D. 7. May 4—Drake 7; X. D. 13. May 10—^Michigan State <if East Ijinsiii$r. Slay 11—^Xorthwestem at Xotre Dame. May 14—^Bradley at Xotre Dame. May 16—^Michisna State at Xotre Dame. May 18—Coe Colleee at X"«tre l>ame. May 20—OsakaOranichi U. (Japan) at X. D. May 22—Butler at X'titre Dame. May 24 and 2.'>—^Minnesota at Minneapolis. May 27 and 28—3Inrsliall at X'otre Dame. June 1—Xavy at Baltimore. 
Coach Tommy Mills and his Notre Dame baseball team have been "going to town" as they say in the parlance of the campus. Starting out in the blustery days of early April, Coach Mills, Capt. Colrick and the baseball crew hit for the sunny south and won six of the seven games which made up the southern trip. Then they returned to the fiome bailiwick for a few contests, the ma­jority of which they won. In fact, when this issue of the ALUMNUS went to the press­es, the Irish had won nine, lost three and tied one, which is not a bad record at all. 
That southern trip put heart into Coach Mills where before there had been nothing but misgivings, wonder and doubt. The Notre Dame mentor knew that he had pitch­ers and a couple of fair hitters, but the ef­fectiveness of the infield and the general strength of the batting order were unknown. Once the boys had put on their act with five different southern college teams. Coach Mills smiled to himself and realized that he had a ball club. 
Daniel Baker was the first victim of the trip, the Texans falling twice, 8 to 2 and 1 to 0. Joe Jachym hurled the first victory and Bob Walsh applied the white-wash bnish in the second. The Irish had a hard time -with Southern Methodist but finally came out on the right end of a 6 to 5 score. 
Baylor was defeated twice, 5 to 2 and 12 
to 6, with Rust and Jachym doing the pitch­
ing. In the finale of the trip. Rust lost to 
Texas A. and M., 7 to 4, a profusion of err­
ors helping to turn the tide against our 
boys. 
After vacationing for two weeks, the No­

tre Dame team launched into the home 
schedule on April 18, by defeating Wabash 
•5to 0 \vith Oskar Rust on the slab. Notre Dame got runs early in the game and Rust never pei-mitted his opposition to become dangerous. Four days later Iowa came along, found Joe Jachym in erratic mood and hopped on him for a 13 to 6 victory. It was anybody's game until the seventh when the Hawkeyes collected five runs. 
Rust again went to the mound in the Western State game and won the engage­ment 4 to 1. The big Arkansas youth yielded up but three hits, and the lone run kept him from a record of 18 consecutive scoreless innings. Five days after that, on April 29, Rust took the mound against In­diana and was forced to a tie-game at 5-all. Rain halted the contest in the fifth and seventh innings, and Umpire Con Daily gave up at the beginning of the tenth frame when darkness and moisture clicked to­gether. 
On the day after the Indiana game. Coach Mills led his team on a western invasion. Joe Jachym faced Wisconsin in the first game of that journey and was unfortunate enough to be defeated 4 to 3 in 11 innings. A single and a double in the last of the elev­enth gave the Badgers their victory. Al­though each team made nine hits, Notre Dame's defense hobbled six times, which is too much for the heart of any pitcher. 
Oskar Rust (the big league scouts will be stepping on each ct'ier's toes for this lad if he keeps up) faced Iowa at Iowa City on Friday, May 3, and had the situation well in hand clear through the game. For the first eight innings, the Hawks collected ex­actly no runs and no more than one hit. Oskar weakened in the ninth and allowed two singles, two bases on balls and a wild pitch, which combined to make t%vo runs for Iowa. 
Ed Donahue occupied the mound, after a long vacation, against the Drake team and turned in a 13-7 victory. Notre Dame was free in its hitting at opportune moments and had little trouble in keeping ahead of the Bulldogs. 
TRACK With the day of the dual meet apparently gone and the day of the relay carnival here in all its glory, Notre Dame trackmen have been turning their attention to i-elay carni­vals throughout the country. Coach John 
P. Nicholson's men have competed in four relay meets during the past month and have made a creditable showing in each of them. 
The Kansas Eelays, on April 21, found Capt. Jack Elder in almost perfect fettle. The Kentucky Colonel trotted the 100 yards in :09 4-5, repeating his Kansas Relay vic­tory of the year before. Wilcox of Kansas and Tolan of Michigan bowed to Elder's prowess in the event. A four mile relay-team, composed of the Brown brothers, John and Bill, Bob Brennan, and Pete Morgan, finished behind Illinois and Indiana in their specialty. 
The week-end of April 28 found Coach Nicholson splitting his squad into two di­visions, one going to Des Moines, la., for the Drake Relays and the other journeying to Philadelphia for the Pennsylvania Relays. 
Capt. Elder did not fare so well at Drake, for Claude Bracey, the Texas Flyer, out-sprinted the Notre Dame ace to win the 100 yard dash by a yard. Bracey took the event in :09 4-5, defeating Elder by a yard, but the track was ankle deep with water. The football relay, an event new to relay carni­val competition, was won by Army's team of Murrell, Sprague, Messinger and Hall, with Nebraska second and the Irish four, composed of MuUins, Brady, O'Brien and Elder, in third place. Drake was fourth and Te.\-as fifth. 
At Philadelphia the four mile team did not fare so well. Injury to John Brown and the illness of Bill Brown caused the Irish to finish sixth. Penn State won the event and Indiana was second. 
Notre Dame scored often in the Ohio Re­lays at Columbus, 0., on May 4. Bob Walsh, who forsook baseball for track, won the shot put with a heave of 46 feet 3 inches and Capt. Elder took third in the 100 yard dash, behind Simpson of Ohio State and Bowen of Pittsburgh. McDonald won fifth place in the javelin throw. 
Notre Dame's sprint relay team, com­posed of Elder, Boagni, NichoUs and Bailey, copped a third in the two-mile relay, while the Irish also won second place placques in the one-mile team race. 
NEW FACULTY RATING PLAN Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, announced at a recent meetins of the lay faculty, a new and definite plan of ratinsr for memhers of the faculty. Under,the plan, a member of the faculty without previous teaching experience will rate as an instructor for three years, followed by a three year period as assistant professor. For the next five years he wilt be rated as an associate professor. At the end of these eleven years he becomes a professor. These ratings, of course, assume satisfactory work during the periods. Father O'Donnell announced at the same time that the University was working out a similar scale of salaries, but that this had not yet been completed. Both these plans are in keeping with plans used by many other schools, and are established in recogni­tion of the development of the lay faculty at Notre Dame. Father O'Donnell, among other announcements, also brought out the interesting fact that Notre Dame's salaries to its faculty compare favorably with the salaries current in the North Central Association of Colleges and Universities. 
CAMPUS EDITORS NAMED Murray Hickey Ley, of DavenpDrt, Iowa, a junior in the College of Arts and Letters at the University, w^as announced as next year's Scholastic editor at the annual Publications Banquet in the Faculty Din­ing Hall, May 2. Mr. Ley, who is literary editor of the Scliolastic and a prominent member of the Scrib­blers, will succeeed John V. Hinkel, present editor, who will graduate from the School of Journalism this June. At the same time John L. Nanovic. of Palmerton. Pennsylvania, also a junior in the Arts College at Notre Dame, was announced as editor of the Juggler for next year. Mr. Nanovic, who is associate editor of the Juggler, and another prominent member of the Scribblers, will be the successor of Joseph P. McNamara, present editor, who is a senior in the College of Law. The third editorial announcement concerned the appointment of Robert Lawrence Pendergast, of Galesburg, Illinois, a sophomore in the College of Arts and Letters at the University, to succeed Thomas A. Keegan. present editor of the Dome. 


Sacred Heart Church to Be Redecorated 
BY REV. LA^VRENCE BROUGH.41L, C.S.C. 
(The following article has been released to the 

Gregori's brush. This gives rise to the 
campus publications by Father Broughall to bring the benefaction of the restoration of the art of hope of at last attaining, in the spirit of Gregori to the many alumni and students wlio 
Father Sorin's beginnings, the full realiza­
have enjoyed it during years past, and to appeal 
tion of his ideals with regard to the church 
to these friends to add to this restoration of the art in the Church a similar restoration and com­in time for the Diamond Jubilee of the pletion of the other l)eautiful details of the fam­blessing of the Foundation Stone. (1931) ous Cliurch.) 
Mr. Wilfred E. Anthony, the present arch­itect of St. Vincent Ferrer's Church, New 
1868-1931 

York, has received the commission to super­These yeai's enshrine holy memories. 
vise the restoration and to harmonize the They proclaim the inspired wisdom of new with the old. The designs reveal mar­Father Sorin in making this temple the con­vels of loveliness befitting the august use secrated centre of religion and learning. . . 
of the vaz-ious pieces. Assuredly, from His love of excellence in bringing from Eu­high heaven will Father Sorin exclaim, rope a reno^vned ai-tist, Gregori, to adorn "Thou art all fair, 0 My love!" 
the vast reaches of the interior ... . His Those friends of Notre Dame whose in­
dominant courage in undertaking the work terest may especially lie in such a work, ^v^th no resources, other than his confidence \vill rejoice at this announcement. An altar, in the living faith of the friends of Notre a statue, a lantern, a foot of pavement, to Dame. 
mention only a few details, would be a fit­
The archives ai-e eloquent with testimony ting memorial to their dear departed, a of the ready response, often touching be­gracious tribute to a revered professor, a yond yords, that came from the Americas, grateful remembrance of a son's gradua­
Europe, and even Australia. The powerful tion. and the wealthy gave of their treasure, the 
A "Book of Golden Deeds" will bear all poor of their mite. In truth all these voices the names. Placed under the High Altai attest -with the Psalmist, "I have loved, 0 for enduring memory, they will plead with Lord, the Beauty of Thy House and the the Di\ine Love in union with the thousands Place where Thy Glory dwelleth." 
of Masses, the millions of Holy Communi­
The urgent needs of the expanding Uni­ons, the countless prayers that here ascend versity, but especially the disastrous fire of as incense in the sight of the Lord. 1879, crowded aside the full fruition of Father Sorin's hopes. Instead of the ap­
FATHER WENNINGER RETURNING 
propriate furnishings required by the Lit­urgy, only substitutes were possible. The Kev. Francis Wenninger, C.S.C, Litt.B. '11, who now has numerous other degrees cum all kinds of 
new years brought new problems and the 
laude after his name, will resume his duties as Dean 
church remained unfinished, though en­
of the College of Science, May 20. Father Wenninger twined with the loves of many generations. went to Vienna in the fall of 1927 for work on his Time has either dimmed or effaced much doctorate. At Vienna he did research work and studied under such men as Father Schmidt, world 
of its compelling beauty. Temporary altars 
renowned anthropologist. Professors Werner and Pit-
still occupy the seven apsidal chapels. The 
ner. On November 12, last year, he recefved a Ph.D., 
crypt is almost as bare as Bethlehem. The 
magna cimi laude, an unusual honor. Father Wen­lighting is antiquated and hazardous. The ninger left Vienna the middle of April, stopping in chimes are silent. The organ is but a faint Belgium and in England. He left England May 9. 
Rev. George Albertson, C.S.C, has been acting dean 
echo of its former celestial quality. The 
of the College. 
restless feet of the thousands who here 
In the same College, Prof. Henry Froning is on 
found consolation and inspiration, have worn 
a short leave to do research work at Ohio State Uni­
thin the boards of which they trod. 
versity, his alma mater. Twenty-three students will be graduated from the science department, and many 
An admirer of Notre Dame has generous-, 
of this number have already teen accepted by the ly made it possible to restore the glory of leading medical schools for advanced study. 
*.— 





THE ALUMNI CLUBS 
U.N. D. Night Reaches New Heights 
(The Editor regrets that space will not pei-mit full reports of all the interesting meetings held through­out the country. It is hoped that the following excerpts will convey the deeper note that seems to have been struck in the observance, and the wonder­ful spirit of the Notre Dame men participating. A number of Clubs that observed the Night have failed to send in reports. The radio programs seem to have been generally well received and the Associa­tion should be very appreciative of the cooperation of the various stations.) 
BOSTON The Notre Dame Club of Boston was definitely reorganized (an alumni club existed there some years ago but apparently had dozed off) April 22. Officers aree: Hugh Blunt, '24, president; John McManmon, '28, vice-president; Dr. James J. Lynch, '15, secre­tary-treasurer, and Rev. Cornelius J. Donovan, '08, chaplain. Notre Dame's growing contribution to Harvard's graduate schools will make this Clnh very important. Hugh Blunt, very active in organizing the Club, and Al Birmingham, '24, a member, were at Notre Dame on May 2, but only for an overnight stop. BUFFALO Buffalo's dinner dance was a big success, Gordon Bennett writes. Jay L. Lee, president of the Buffalo Club, has been made head football coach of the U. of Buffalo. A former N. D. student, Stanley Drumstra (later captain of the U. of B. eleven), is helping the new coach. CALUMET REGION Observing Universal Notre Dame Night, members of the Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region gathered April 22 in Vogel's fish house, Hammond, for a dinner-meeting. Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, of the University faculty, and J. Arthur Haley, business manager of athletics at Notre Dame, were the chief speakers at the Hammond gathering. H. J. Lower, of Gary, president of the club, presided as toastmaster. Father O'Donnell dwelt on the educational and material progress of Notre Dame since its beginning nearly a century ago and on the plans which the University has at present for further progress to meet pressing needs. Mr. Haley described in detail the proposed new Notre Dame stadiimi, preliminary work for which is already under way, and explained that the structure is to be financed to a considerable extent by the sale of boxes. 
New officers of the club, elected at last night's meeting are: Hugh E. Carroll, East Chicago, presi­dent ; John Wallace, Gary, vice-president; William L. Travis, Hammond, treasurer. William R. Dooley, Hammond, was re-elected secretary. 
The following committee was appointed by Presi­dent Carroll to promote the sale in this region of boxes in the new stadium: Patrick Maloney, Gary; Edward Ryan, Valparaiso; J. M. Rohrbach, Crown Point; Clarence W. Bader, Gary; Timothy P. Galvin, Hammond; and Dr. J. A. McCarthy, Whiting. This committee will act in conjunction with the officers of the club. 
CENTRAL OHIO 

Ray Eichenlaub writes that on Tuesday, April 16, the Club entertained Don Miller, '25, new assistant coach at Ohio State, with a stag party at the Schwambuckle Club in Columbus. Don Hamilton, '12, president of the Alumni Association, was among the guests. The Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a meeting at the University Club in the Seneca Hotel, Columbus. 
CHICAGO Notre Dame Club of Chicago erected another mile­stone on the transcontinental trail of alumni CIUIK on Universal night. The memory of that evening's entertainment will live long in the minds of the four hundred who attended as a monument that marks another step toward waht the ideal alumni. association of Notre Dame men should be. Chicago furnished a site for the party but Jimmy Armstrong's appeals furnished the attraction that drew the old boys and their friends to the Auditorium Hotel from far and near. And by far I mean Peoria, Joliet, Rockford and Green Bay, There may have been others who traveled farther than that but I only have the memory of a few greetings that stood out from the hundreds of "howdys" that swamped you as you stepped off the elevator. (Pardon me, I forgot to mention Bill Foley and Charley Smith of Indianapolis and Louis Hutchinson of Goshen.) The piece de resistance consisted of corned beef and cabbage with a side of some queer mixture that had the shape and consistency but not quite the flavor of J. P. McEvoy's famous "Buns on Sunday Morn­ing." After all that had been washed down they settled to the real business of the evening and those who 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
thought they paid $2.75 for a dinner got the sur­prise of their lives. Many of them stopped Walter Miller on the way out and asked what else they owed for the night's entertainment. However, true to campus tradition, those who offered to pay more were sadly in the minority. 
It would be impossible to describe the highlights of an evening that reached a peak when Mark Foote, '73, led the "Victory March" by way of dessert and let down only when President John Costello's gavel put a formal end to Chicago's Universal Notre Dame Night for 1929. 
The speakers' table looked much like a sport writers' convention until you took a second glance and found members of Chicago's famous "Old Guard" and a number of the men that sport writers write about scattered around the board. 
Rocky Wolfe, who has been called a raconteur and is by the way a darn good story teller when he gets away from the Journal, was there. So were Warren Brown and George Strickler of the Examiner; Jimmy Corcoran, originator of Cork Tips, and Clair Kelly of the American. 
Then came a closer scrutiny. Quin Ryan, WGN radio announcer, and brother of Joe Ryan, '24. Byron Kanaley and Dan O'Connor, who need no in­troduction to Notre Dame men from way back when. Mark Foote, '73, "Notre Dame's midwest perennial" as Father Cavanaugh has styled him. And Mr. Will McPhee of Denver, former president of the National Alumni Association. 
Johnny Law, varsity captain, and Tom Lieb, line coach, showed up to represent the boys who still live under the Dome. By the way, they should both gain fame as coaches if their ability to emulate the pessimism of their mentor over football prospects is any criterion. 
Dan O'Connor outlined the club plan to build a gymnasium for the seminarians of Holy Cross through increased activities and the voluntary contributions of members. Dan Culhane has his vocational com­mittee working on an idea that will give the young fellows who aim to headquarter here a chance to make the right connections when they leave school. 
Frank Fitzsiramons, club secretary, read an appeal 
for the club to buy a field box in the new stadium 
for ten years, which was unanimously adopted. 
Jimmy Phelan, coach at Purdue, but still a Notre 
Dame man at heart, took the boys off their feet with 
one of the snappiest talks that ever thrilled a Notre 
Dame group. 
That if anything was the peak of the evening. 
And then came Kock, and if report is true he came 
as few of us have come before. He wandered in at 
11:40, after first entertaining boys in the St. Joe 
Valley, and he must have had another stop to make 
that night because his talk was about as terse as his 
instructions between halves—and had about the same 
effect as his words during the intermission at the 
Army game last year. Give .us more like it. 
The next affair will be the annual May Foi-mal 

Party. The date has been set for May 29, and it is 
to be held at the Knickerbocker Hotel. The com­
mittee is headed by Dick Halpin, '27, and is composed 
of the following: Jack Canizar, '28; Jack Geary. '27: John Sullivan, '27; James McNicholas, '25; Frank Keefe, '27; Jerry Murphy, '22; Rodge Kiley, '23; Ray Mulligan, '28. TOM BARKY, '25. 
CLEVELAND The Cleveland Club did its stuff on Universal Notre Dame night with a supper at the Allerton at which more than fifty of us spent a very enjoyable evening. Big Ed Walsh was in town with the White Sox and dropped in long enough to make a talk and sing some of his Irish songs. Mr. Henry Newmark, Class of '78. was also present—he certainly is a rabid Notre Dame fan—and was very interesting. Father^ Mike Moriarty, as usual, was the wit of the evening. Plans were formulated for a special train to go to the Carnegie Tech game next fall, and we are expecting quite a crowd. The Club also agreed. to take a Cleveland Club box in the new.Stadium and expressed the hope that the stadium be named after "Rock." Election of officers was held and Gene Kane, who has been treasurer of the club ever since it was started, I believe, was unanimously chosen as presi­dent. We expect Gene to do wonders with the Cleveland crowd this year. John Butler and Fred Joyce were returned as vice-president and secretary, respectively: and John A. Gallagher, '26, was elected to take Kane's old place as treasurer. This was rather an appropriate choice too, as John is with the Morris Plan Bank, although in a legal capacity. With evei-y good wish for a highty happy and successful new year to Notre Dame, Notre Dame Clubs and to you. CHARLES A. MOONEY, JR., '26. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 

A short note from Jim Curry says, "We celebrated Notre Dame Night. This year the meeting was held in Hartford and was quite successful." 
DAYTON 

A telegram to Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., stated: Dayton Club in session at Miami Hotel, join enthusiastically in the national hookup. Fifty mem­bers send best wishes to you personally and continued success to our Alma Mater. 
DENVER 

The Notre Dame Club of Denver celebrated Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, April 22, as follows: The most enthusiastic meeting we have had in years. Twenty members present at a banquet at the Ar­gonaut Hotel. Decided on a drive to bring in about fifteen more members of the club whojn past years have not joined in the activities. A big get-together with all of these planned for May 6th at the same place with everyone present pledging to bring in some of the absent fifteen. Election of officers and plans for a more active service to the University for the coming year. JAMES P. LOGAN. President. 
DES MOINES 

John Newman has been keeping the Des Moines alumni busy, first stirring up enthusiasm and pub­licity for the Notre Dame display of books by campus authors displayed in Des Moines during the week of the Drake Relays, and then in entertaining the members of the track team attending the relays, April 26-27. 
DETROIT If Notre Dame clubs everywhere celebrated April 22 with the same gusto the Detroit gang did, there will never be any need for hauling down the flag. There were 102 plates laid when everyone had checked in at the Prince Edward Hotel in Windsor. The number represented a highwater mark for Notre Dame attendance at a function in the Detroit area. ANTiether it was the Canadian beverages or just plain efficiency on the part of Jim O'Brien, who carried the burden of ari-anging the affair, would be harf to say. 
The speakers were Former Circuit Judge Ernest 
P. Lajoie, Notre Dame alumnus, and Edward T. Fitzgerald, of the Fitzgerald-Freiburger Co., surety bonds. 
In accordance with the atmosphere of the occasion, the speeches were brief and pointed. Judge Lajoie reminded the crowd that Notre Dame offers the world something more than football heroes and that her alumni can foster a correct understanding of Notre Dame education by their conduct and achievements. Mr. Fitzgerald discussed Catholic humanism and its relation to contemporary life, tracing the cultural heritage of the Church from the Middle Ages. 
Both before and after the dinner the occasion was brightened by a renewal of acquaintanceships among the constantly growing Notre Dame group in Detroit and vicinity. 
Preparations are under way already for the club's summer fiy>lic. The third Saturday in June has been chosen, tentatively, as the date. The place probably ' will be Ed Weeks' farm near Utica, Mich. An in\'j­tation will be extended to Notre Dame alumni in Toledo and northwestern Ohio. 
Don Trombley, Law '26, of Mt. Clemens, Mich., has been advanced to first assistant prosecuting attorney. of Macomb County. Don previously had been serving as second assistant. 
S. E. Bower, Journalism '2G, has joined the staff of the Detroit I^cics, coming to Detroit from the South Bend Tribune. 
A] Connolly, a product of the K. of C. Boys' Work courses, has resigned his post with the Boys' Club of Detroit, 5716 Michigan Ave. 
Leo F. MuIHn has been named chairman of the club's football committee to handle arrangements for tickets and trips during the football season. 
Emmett J. Kelly, a Notre Dame alumnus, is a member of the board of governors of the new In­tercollegiate Alumni Club, Detroit, which made public its plan of building a downtown clubhouse for college men more than a month ago. Other N. D. alumni who are members are: Joseph J. Collins, Howard Ellis, Ernest P. La Joie, Raymond J. La Pointe, Edward N. Marcus, Dr. William B. Mulcrone, and James F. O'Brien. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA A letter from Washington states that their meeting had to be postponed until this month. 
FORT WAYNE An outstanding celebration occurred at Fort Wayne, where Harry Hogan, chairman of the 
arrangements committee, gathered almost the entire membership of the Club for a banquet in the Hoosier room of the Indiana Hotel. At 10 p. m. radio station WOWO broadcast a program of Notre Dame music and speeches by John W. Eggeman, president of the Fort Wayne Club and a candidate for presi­dent of the national Association, and Harry Hogan. Tom McKieman, secretary, was toastmaster. The arrangements committee, besides the chairman, was composed of Norbert BerghofI and Austin Centlivre. 
FOX RIVER VALLEY 

The Notre Dame Club of Green Bay is dead. Long live the Notre Dame Club of the Fox River Valley. The reorganization was effected Universal Notre Dame Night in Green Bay and the following men elected to promote the new organization: John V. Diener, president, (mayor of Green Bay by the way) ; John Roach, Appleton, vice-president; John Gallag­her, Shawano, secretary; George Kelly, Neenah, treasurer. A ways and means committee was also elected, to advance the interest of Notre Dame in the Fox River Valley, as follows: E. C. Lambeau, Green Bay, chairman; John Roach, Appleton, and Tom Hearden, Green Bay. Vic Lemmer dnove 250 miles 
from  up  in  Michigan  to  attend  the  meeting.  The  
Club e-vp ects  to  meet thoughout  the  summer.  
HIAWATHA  LAND  

The following letter from John Lemmer explains the poetry: The Upper Michigan club of the University of Notre Dame was organized at Peterson's Tea Room last night. Ten members were present. Do not list our club as the Northern Michigan Club because that name is usually applied to the northern part of the lower peninsula. If there is no objection, we would like to have our organization called the Hiawatha Land Notre Dame Club. The Marinette men will belong to our club, and Hiawatha Land includes that northern Wisconsin territory as well as upper Michigan. We had a splendid meeting. About as much time was given to singing Notre Dame songs as to talk­ing Notre Dame. The missing men can all be accounted for. We are working on a scholarship which will probably amount to one hundred dollars, to be awarded to a graduate of a Hiawatha Land high school each.year. Details are not completed as yet. One requirement will be that the boy be in the upper half of his class in scholarship. In addition to that, his athletic record and his record in extra-curricular activities such as public speaking will be taken into consideration. The men are all enthusiastic about the scholarship. You may have something to suggest concerning this. The officers of our Club are: Attorney T. J. Dun-don, honorary president; John A. Lemmer, presi­
dent ; Henry J. Lauerman, vice-president; Gerald J. Cleary, secretary; Attorney E. J. Dundon, treasurer. Y'ou will wish this note for the ALUMNUS: 
Attorney E. J. Dundon was recently elected city attorney of Iron Mountain. We are particularly proud of Attorney T. J. Dun­
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
don. '73, of Ishpeming. We think that he is one of the two oldest living graduates. He is a remarkable old gentleman. He read a paper for us at the meet­ing that ye wish you could use in the ALUMNUS. I shall send the orgininal to you because we think it belongs somewhere in the archives at Notre Dame. "Uncle Tom's" son, Ned, brought to the meeting medals that his father had won at Notre Dame. He showed us the following awards: the iirst prize in Science, 1872; first prize in Science. 1873; first prize in commercial work, 1872 ; first prize in deportment, "Optime Merenti," 1872. The rowing championship medal won in 1872 has been lost. 
I hope that Universal Notre Dame Night is going over big all over the country. 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Universal Notre Dame night was celebrated by the Indianapolis club last evening with a dinner at the Chamber of Commerce, attended by forty-five mem­bers of the club. 
The action of the officers in making the award of honorary membership to the year's lactare Medal­list, Honorable Alfred E. Smith, was heartily ratified by the club. A letter from Governor Smith, promis­ing to be the guest of the Indianapolis Notre Dame Club on the occasion of any visit to the city was read and filed. 
Paul Harrington was elected president for the en­suing year; Lawrence Welch, vice-president; Robert Worth, secretary, and Tom Jones, treasurer. 
Professor Clarence Manion of the University was the honor guest of the evening and delivered a splen­did address, stressing the duty of the former students of the University toward their Alma Mater. Brother Aiden of the Cathedral'High School, this city, which is conducted by the Brothers of the Holy Cross, also addressed the meeting. It was most interesting to leai-n of the high educational standing of the faculty of the high school, practically every member having a Master's degree. Michael Duflfecy, Jr., played the "Notre Dame Victory March" and other piano se­lections. In all it was a very enjoyable evening and the best wishes of the club go back to all our friends at Notre Dame. L. J. KEACH. 
KANSAS CITY 

A telegram from Maurice Carroll, secretary, tells the story: Good attendance. Indoor barbecue supper. Enthusiastically endorse new stadium plans. Louis Finske, manager Publix theater, furnished movies. Talks by Doc Nigro and Joe Stewart. Definite plans for monthly get-together. 
KENTUCKY 

The Colonels must have had a fine celebration. They had decided yes at last reports, but no place had been set. And to date a significant silence. 
Mike Sullivan's "Kentuckian"—the Club organ, first of its kind, continues to more than justify its existence. Some news of general interest about the non-Louisville Kentuckians apeared in the last issue: John Shouse, since his marriage to Maxine Parker, of Lawrenceburg, has entered the Higgin Screen 
business in Lexington Tom Young, also in Lexington, is doing exceptionally well with his pure­bred horse establishment. Kussell McCIure. at Emi­nence, is just an hour's drive from Louisville. . 
Prank Cahill is boxing instructor at the Kentucky Military Institute in addition to practicing law. 
LOS ANGELES 

A telegram to Father Charles O'Donnell brought Los Angeles back to Notre Dame: Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles at enthusiastic dinner this Universal Notre Dame Night sends affectionate greetings to Alma Mater and pledges anew its loyalty as a body. May Providence bestow fresh blessing on the suc­cessors of Sorin and on their achievement which is commanding attention throughout the country. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 

New Orleans has also capitalized "growing pains, and the new and larger Club is the result. The fol­lowing a letter from Cyprian Sporl: 
Just a few words to let you know how the Notre Dame Club of New Orleans is faring. 
President Burke called a meeting of the New Orleans Club of Notre Dame to celebrate the annual Notre Dame Broadcasting Night. 
A supper was had at Maylies Restaurant. After'a discussion as to enlarging the club to take in the states of Louisiana and Mississippi, a motion was passed to take in the alumni from the two states, likewise a motion was passed to change the name of the club to Notre Dame club of Louisiana and Mississippi instead of the New Orleans Club of Notre Dame. 
Mr. Burke was unanimously re-elected president. Charles de la Vergne was elected vice-president, and T was chosen as secretary-treasurer. 
It was decided that the Club would meet quarterly instead of yearly and that a meeting would be held within the next ninety days. The supper was fol­lowed by a Radio Gathering at my residence at which we tuned in to hear the various Notre Dame pro­grams. 
N.A.SHVILLE 

The following clipping from a Nashville paper tells of the interesting meeting at Nashville: (The Editor hopes to have space for some of these inter­esting reminiscences in the near future.) 
Memories of colleges days were recalled to the minds of the Nashville graduates of Notre Dame University who gathered .'Vpril 22 at the Tulane hotel to talk together and to reminisce over gay times at South Bend. 
And the things that they talked about came back across a long span of years for there were some very old graduates present at the meeting. 
Merritt S. Pilcher of 1912 Eighteenth Avenue. South, is the oldest living former student at Notre Dame having attended there in 1865. With him at school were his brother Ale.x and James. Edward and jVnies Burns, who were sent to Notre Dame when the schools of Nashville were closed on account of the Civil War. 
Another old student that was present at the meet­ing was Frank J. Ready who recalled the time that Chief Justice Chase of the supreme court came to the University and delivered a talk. He also re­called the time that the students received the news of the burning of Chicago. 
(Continitcd on imge 282) 

./ 


COHHENCEHENT-yViAy 3 
THURSDAY, MAY 30 

^^LUMNI this year are given an unusual 
opportunity. Memorial Day and the Commencement week-end are joined in a four day period that can be spent with great pi-ofit to you on the campus. Memorial Day has a real significance for Notre Dame that certainly the alumni share. The bronze tablet on the memorial dooi-way of Sacred Heart Church contains many names that should now be in the alumni files. Paul Wood's famous painting of the absolution on the battle field of Gettys­burg of the 69th Regiment by Father Corby recalls vividly another era that binds Notre Dame's traditions to the observance of Memor­ial Day. Tlie Field Mass will be held the morning of Memorial Day, with a procession from the outdoor altar to the Community cem­etery following. Tiy to make this extra day, especially you who took part in the events commemorated and knew that gallant company who cannot return. 
FRIDAY, MAY 31 

rnEGISTRATION will be held in the Alumni *^'^ Office (the old student office) all day Fri­day and Saturday. 
Rooms will be assigned, to alumni who wish to stay on the campus, (and who doesn't on an occasion like this?). Walsh, Howard, Morris­sey and Lyons Halls have been assigned for this purpose and will be in good shape to ac­commodate the crowds. 
Reunion Classes are especially urged to come back a day or two early. Saturday and Sun­day are crowded with events for everyone, but Thursday and Friday will give you that op­portunity to meet the companions of years gone, to revisit old scenes on the campus, visit the many changed parts of it, and to talk, and talk, and talk. 
Friday night at 6:30 the Quadrangle will ring ^vith the tunes of Notre Dame played by the excellent University Band, under the di­rection of Joseph Casasanta, '23. 
% 
At 8:00 p. m. in Washington Hall, old an new comers will enjoy the presentation of tSi University Theater. It is practically ceitai that the very successful "Julius Caesar" of thi season will be repeated. The play and the ha alone should draw heavily from the olde alumni. The excellence of the present grou can be assured to everyone. 
Trj' to come back Thursday and Friday! 
SATURDAY. JUNE 1 
eOLEMN REQUIEM MASS for decease 
alumni will be sung in Sacred Heai Church at 8.00 on Saturday morning. Not Class but whose members will miss familia faces. Those who come back for Memoris Day will have a deeper significance in attenc ance. No alumnus knows that this Commencf ment may not be his last. The Requiem Mas has been a feature of Commencement too muc neglected. Attend this year. 
At 9:30 the Seniors pay their last visit \ the Church. The more recent alumni remembc this beautiful ceremony, which is for the Sei iors only. 
Class Day Exercises, the valedictory, tli poem, the awarding of the many prizes an honors (formerly held with the awarding •« the degrees) will be held this year in the Uni versity Gymnasium. There are 450 Senior Washington Hall could not accommodate thi number with the parents and friends who wi wish to be present, so the Gym has been a; signed to this extra duty. 
At noon on Saturday (and on Sunday) t'r University Dining Halls will sei-ve luncheo to the alumni and visitors. 
Saturday afternoon the Illinois Athleti Club has agreed to send down a team of ii track stars to compete against the Notre Dan track men. This event was arranged when, was found necessary to send the baseball teai to Annapolis for a game with Navy on June cancelling the Friday and Saturday gami 

), 31, JUNE i, 2-ATTEND 
)reviously arranged for the week-end. Navy .Till play a return game at Notre Dame next Commencement. Coach John Nicholson's squad vill give an excellent entertainment in compe­ition with the I.A.C. stars. Jack Elder, the ^otre Dame flash, will lead the squad. 
Saturday Night at 6:00 the annual Alumni Banquet will be held in the East Wing of the Jining Halls. This event is too time-honored md esteemed to require elaboration. 
Glee Club and Orchesti-a, under the able irection of Joseph Gasasanta, '23, head of the department of music, will give a concert well rorth hearing in Washington Hall at 8:00. 
'^ Following the Concert the West Wing of the )ining Halls -will be opened for an Alumni !moker. You remember the Brownson and 
•arroll smokers with their impenetrable moke, their singing, their piano playing, their ratory, their impromptu debating. These will e recreated for you, -with, your help. It is oped that under the stimulus of a little mod-m music and discussion, the old-timers ^vill jsurrect the songs and speeches and recita­ons that really enforced the much stricter mfinement rules of these days. Arrangements )r some sort of buffet supper will probably be )mpleted, to put nourishment into the ci-owd ' it, by any flight of fancy, lags. 
SUNDAY, JUNE 2 

^H E beautiful and impressive Academic ^ procession will leave the Main Building ir the Church at 8:30 Sunday morning Bishop !ahoney, of Sioux Falls, South Dakota, will sfebrate the Solemn Pontifical Mass. The iccalaureate sermon will be delivered by Eev. orbert Hoff, President of Mount Saint Char­s College, Helena, Montana. 
The Senior flag, presented to the University I Washington's Birthday, will be blessed fol-wing the Mass, and carried in solemn pro­ssion to the flagpole on the Quadrangle, [lere the flag raising ceremonies will be held. 
Luncheon in the Dining Halls will be,served as on Saturday. 
At 2:00 p. m. the annual Alumni Meeting in Washington Hall will be held. Business of the Association has reached a point where it is imperative to have the attendance and consid­eration of as many alumni as possible at these annual meetings. This year, especially, there will be things proposed that will mean decided change in the policies of the Association. Alumni cannot be urged too strongly to attend Commencement and this particular phase of it. 
Awarding of the degrees takes place at 5:00 in the Gj'mnasium. This year four hundred and fifty degrees •will be given out. It is the largest Class in the history of the University. The Gymnasium ^vill be decorated for the oc­casion and is used because it is the only build­ing on the campus that ofi'ers adequate seating facilities for the several thousand persons at­tending. 
The Commencement Address will be deliver­ed by Col. William Donovan. Col. Donovan, a World War Veteran of outstanding merit, for­mer assistant attorney general, outstanding among the soldier-statesmen of America, is noted as an orator. His address is one of the features of the full Commencement, program. He was prominently mentioned for a post in President Hoover's cabinet. '•"' "• "• 
The above outline is necessarily but a' skele­ton of the Commencement week-end. It is the little details that go into the completion-of these events that make the Commenceniehts enjoyable. Your attendance and participation are also essential. You will never regret the experiences. On the contrary they should stand out, like visits to an old home. 
Plan to be on.the campus Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
(U. N. D. Nia'it Continued.) 

The next oldest students at the meeting were F. E. Kuhn, of the Kuhn-Cooper-Geary Co., who is presi­dent of the local cluh, and Frank C. Whorley, pro­prietor of the news stand at the Tulane hotel. 
Other Nashville graduates present at the meeting were Harry Claiborne. Charles and Tony Scheffer, Frank Lowry, Robert Wilson, Frank Sharenberger, Thomas Fosdick. Will C. Orchord, '83. and John Dyer. 
An election of officers was held as the closing part of the meeting and F. E. Kuhn was elected presi­dent, Merritt S. Pilcher, vice-president, and H. L. Claiborne, secretary. 
NE\V YORK 

Bill Cotter wound up his term as president in a burst of glory on Universal Notre Dame Night. The Fraternity Club was packed to capacity with the largest crowd in the history of the organization, and congratulations were showered upon him from all sides. 
During the year the club held more activities than ever before, and each event was marked with un­usual success and interest. Good will prevailed every­where and the treasury showed a balance of $703. One thousand dollars in advertising had been signed up for the ALUMNUS. Everything was lovely and the goose hung high. 
Dinner was served at 6:30 and Danny Sullivan 

of Newark put on a brilliant revue that would have 
done credit to Ziegfeld. The fun started when two 
waiters got into a fist fight during supper. When 
the battle started the crowd thought that the police 
should be called, but when Danny reduced the com­
motion to a regular six round bout the house went 
wild with laughter and amusement. 
Then Danny brought on a flock of dazzling beauties 

from the Jersey coast and treated the old grads to 
one grand and glorious entertainment. After seeing 
this collection of handsome colleens ITie New York 
alumni began to understand why the Newark boys 
seldom leave home. 
Several of the big shots of the Alumni indulged in 

what President O'Donnell recently referred to as 
reminuisances, and the men amused themselves with 
various antics of their own, led by Frank Mulligan 
as generalissimo and pooh bah. 
A letter was read from "Rock" regarding the pur­

chase of a box for the new stadium. The presiding 
oflicer had a hard time keeping the bunch from order­
ing half a dozen, but finally the motion was put and 
unanimously carried to buy the best box in the 
stadium and to pay therefor the sum of $3,000. A 
telegram was acoordingly sent to "Rock" to advise 
him of the fact that the New York Alumni were 
whole-heartedly with him in his great enterprise. 
The election of officers was then held, and by 

reason of the one-year rule in force, a new president 
was to be chosen. The nominating committee pre­
sented the name of Dr. Maurice B. Keady, and pan­
demonium broke loose. The crowd gave the U. N. D. 
and the building rocked with Notre Dame cheers and 
the lusty strains of the "Victory March." 
The new president was installed and made a. gem 
of a speech, outlining his plans for the ensuing year. 

The meeting then broke up and evei-ybody pro­nounced it the happiest and most delightful event in the history of the organization. 
The list of officers of the Club are: Dr. Maurice B. Keady, president; vice-presidents, John E. Kenney, Edward A. Byrne, Alexander J. Colgan, L. William Fury, Leo C. McElroy; secretary, Ambrose O'Connell: treasurer, Louis E. Wagner; chaplain. Rev. John McNamara. The Board of Governors consists of Peter 
P. McEIligott, John Balfe, Joseph Burke, Gerald Craugh, Gerald Cuddihy, Daniel Cunningham Jr.. Charles Donahue, Walter Douglas, Louis Doyle, Ed­ward Fallon, Al Ficks, Norbert Gelson, James Hayes. John Heffeman, Frank Kane, Paul Madigan, Ray­mond McGabe, E. M. McLaughlin, William Neary, Daniel J. O'Neil, Raymond Scanlan and George Sullivan. The Executive Committee consists of Angus McDonald, John Quincy Adams, Robert M. Anderson, Thomas Burke, James Carolin, William Cotter, Harry Cullen, Albert Dannemiller, William Daunt, Alfred Dent, Philip Doherty, N. E. Franklin, Joseph Gar­gan. Edward Glynn, Edward Kenny Jr., Francis Kenny, Frank Lathnop, T. Paul McGannon, James Meehan, Hugh O'Donnell, Frank Walker, Francis Wallace and William A. Walsh. 
ROCHESTER 

After a particularly brave and enthusiastic carry­ing through of a Glee Club concert on April 3 that had been abandoned by less brave and enthusiastic friends, the N. D. Club of Rochester swung un­daunted into a fine celebration of the Night. Gerry Smith, president, writes that everything went off as per schedule and that pep is high for bringing on bigger and better activities. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY Another new Club came into being as described in excellent detail by its secretary, Henry Fannan: The first formal observance of Universal Notre Dame Night in Bockford, being in the nature of a dinner meeting attended by twenty-four former stu­dents from Rockford, Dixon and Rochelle. resulted in the organization of a Rock River Valley Notre Dame club, which it is hoped will include alumni from Freeport, Sterling and Amboy as well as the cities represented at the April 22 meeting. Frank J. Petritz, .'03, Rockford's senior Notre Dame alumnus, who is a secretary-treasurer of Rockford Storage Warehouses, Inc., was toastmaster at the dinner, and with the organization of the club was unanimously chosen president. Mr. Petritz now has a son, Joseph, a budding iournalist who is a fresh­man at Notre Dame. Sherwood Dixon, attorney of the fii-m of Dixon and Dixon, at Dixon, was elected vice president. Sherwood was one of the many Notre Dame boys who served Uncle Sam in the World War, his partici­pation being along the Italian front. George D. O'Brien, '21, who was better known at school as "Obie" because of his prolific contributions to The Juggler, and who since has become known as Rochelle's musical judge, was the principal speaker at the dinner and afterwards won the office of treasurer. 
J. Henry Fannan, '24, Rockford Newspapers, Inc., was elected secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
E. M. Lorden, '24, now in the transfer business in Rockford, was chairman of the committee on arrange­ments for the dinner. 
Other Rockford boys who attendetl were George Skeyhan, '23, pharmacist; George Ward, insurance; Robert J. Doran, '24, salesman; Raymond Marelli, '27, w^ho was one of the varsity guards in '25 and '26; Jepome Di.xon, '22, attorney: and William O'Mara, '28. American Telephone and Telegraph Co. 
Those who were students at Notre Dame, but who 
did not complete their courses there included: Ray 
Gaffney, John Shiel, Don Eakin, Robert Joyce and 
John Culkins. 
Dixon boys at the Rockford meeting were Robert 
Dixon. '25, attorney; Willard Jones, '25, undertaker; 
Edward Mahon, clothing merchant: Paul Fry: John 
Leahy, '28, former track man: Gerald Jones, '22, 
attorney, and John Cahill. 
Clete Lynch, '22, of New York, who happened to be in Rockford on a sales trip, also joined the alumni of this district in observing Notre Dame Night. 
E. M. Lorden, George Skeyhan, Jerome Dixon and the eight enthusiastic boosters from Dixon, seem to have been the guiding stars. 
SAINT JOSEPH VALLEY 

The home fires furnished a beautiful and brilliant 
beacon for the more far-flung encampments. Bernard 
Voll and Michael Donahue were largely responsible 
for the capacity gathering that enjoyed one of the 
new Dining Hall dinners in the attractive lay faculty 
room. 
Knute Rockne presided, until 9 o'clock, when he left for Chicago to address the N. D. Club there. A number of guests were present among the alumni and learned from the program a part of the great traditions that inspire Notre Dame men. They heard them outlined by the two men probably best qualified for that purpose. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, the poet-president, and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. president for fourteen years, beloved of all alumni. 
Father O'Donnell's beautiful expressions are pre­sented in part on the President's Page of this issue. And in keeping with a situation that is as regretta­ble as it is inevitable, the words of Father Cav­anaugh can never be adequately transferred to the coldness of type. Suffice it to say that he pointed out the greatness of the Notre Dame of fifty years ago, the greatness of Father Sorin. whose very genius and personality came into the room with Father Cavanaugh's eloquent description. It was the anni­versary, the thirty-fifth,, of Father Cavanaugh's or­dination. His theme was anniversaries. The ivy of his words climbed about the structure that is Notre Dame, giving beauty and softness to lines that alone have been all too harsh. Heroism, sacrifice. Father Sorin himself scraping the burned bricks of the ruins of Notre Dame in 1879 over the newly blessed cornerstone, a testimonial of superb courage and faith, the resulting emulation by the Community and the laymen,—these things he pointed out. A small school but a great school was the Notre Dame of those days, he recalled. Present pre-eminence is not an accident, but the result of a foresight and a faith bordering on the miraculous, his hearers were told. And it seemed to the Editor that the most im­
pressive feature of the addresses of Father Cav­anaugh and Father O'Donnell was the supreme hu­mility, the utter unconsciousness of heroes honoring past heroes, with courage, faith and sacrifice as great. Election of officers followed the addresses. William 
A. Mclnerny was chosen honorary president; Paul Castner, president: J. H. B. McCarthy, vice-presi­dent; E. J. McErlain, treasurer, and Giles Cain, secretary. 
Joe Casasanta's Collegians; Anthony Kopecky, tenor: Salmon and McAlear, vocalists: and Donovan and Staudt, banjoists, furnished splendid music to the appreciative audience. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 

The Notre Dame men of San Antonio, Austin, and neighboring territory, have definitely organized, the Club coming into being April 4 at the Plaza Hotel, San Antonio. Rev. George McNamara, C.S.C, is honorary president; Joseph Menger is president; Michael A. Needham, Jr., vice-president, and Kirwin Williams, secretary-treasurer. A board of governors consist of Rev. Henry Kemper, Kcrrville; Louis F. Durrell, San Antonio; James F. Odem, Sinton ; Clem Hagerty, Harold Tynan, Leonard Hess, and William Dielman, Jr., all of San Antonio. 
SPOKANE 

A letter from Maurice "Clipper" Smith gives in­teresting details of a U. N. D. Night meeting of small proportions but large spirit: After observing Universal Notre Dame Night with Dr. Luhn I prom­ised to compile a short note relative to our meeting. Being inherently rather dilatory, I am fulfilling my promise several days late. However, we met in a body at the home of the Doctor and immediately after enjoying a most palatable spread of groceries we proceeded to reminisce—and like all good N. D. men we indulged in a bit of bragging. The Doctor produced some old pictures of Notre Dame crews and football teams that certainly amused me thor­oughly. The Doctor is an ardent and enthusiastic football fan, and before the evening was over I was forced to explain all the new rules and their rami­fications. Next year I am going to have the Doctor provide a blackboard. .. . It was an enjoyable evening. 
SYRACUSE 

Edward McLaughlin was chosen president of the Syracuse Alumni of Notre Dame April 22 at a din­ner at the Onondaga. The occasion was the annual Universal Notre Dame Night, which is celebrated throughout the country each year. 
Barney Schanlou was elected secretary and treasurer. The Syracuse alumni club comprises 30 members residing in Central New York. Members will hold their annual golf tournament this year at the Skaneateles Country club, July 16. The annual trip to the Notre Dame-Army football game was dis­cussed. 
TOLEDO 

The N. D. alumni in Toledo enjoyed a real treat on the 22nd as the following clipping indicates: That government should be by the will of the in­tellectually superior rather than by that of the over­whelmingly more numerous class of persons of lower mentality was the contention of Professor Charles Phillips of Notre Dame University, expressed in his 
THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
address at a gathering of Toledo alumni April 22. 
The meeting was held at the University club, and was the local expression of the sixth annual Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, participated in by all Notre Dame clubs each April. Fifty Toledo alumni attended the meeting. 
Professor Phillips stated that of eighty million adults in the United States, fifty-six million had the minds of children under 12, and that it was this class who really govern. 
He deplored the lack of emphasis on scholastic attainments in present day college life, saying that the average alumnus limits his interest in his alma mater to her conquests in athletic pursuits. 
Professor Phillips is a member of the English de­partment at Notre Dame, as well as being a lecturer and author. "The Doctor's Wooing," "New Poland," and a biography of Lincoln's early life are his best known works. He saw service with the American Red Cross in Poland before going to Notre Dame. 
John Hurley, Emory Toth and George Covert, Jr.. were in charge of arrangements. TWIN CITIES 
Thirty old Notre Dame men gathered at the Elks' Club in Minneapolis to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night in a manner befitting Notre Dame. The usual good steak dinner was enjoyed, the smokes following and then reminiscing of campus days until the so-called wee small hours of the morning. 
Father Bolger, vice-president, and Father Gallagan, director of Student Life of St. Thomas College, were our guests. Both Father Bolger and Father Gallagan gave interesting talks as all old students can testify that they are able to do. Joe Boland, newly elected coach of St. Thomas, said a few words, and Mark Nolan, our orator in the Minneapolis legislature, gave the final words. Then came the "bulloney." 
Danny Coughlin surprised all of us by dropping in from Waseca, as did Clarence Smith who traveled about three hundred miles from Bemidji to attend the party. John Byrne acted as master of ceremonies of the informal program and with the wealth of experience that John has had, that end of it was a decided success. 
All in all, Jim, it was a real party that will go down in the annals of the Twin City Club as a huge success. Our only regret is that there aren't more Universal Notre Dame Nights. 
TOM LEE, Sec. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

This is just a little note to let you know what the boys in Western Pennsylvania did on Univer.sal Notre Dame Night. We had a little banquet at the Pittsburgh Field Club together with some high class entertainment and about 100 of the boys and their friends were there to help put the affair over in a big way. 
At the regular weekly luncheon held last Thurs­day the following officers were elected for the com­ing year; John A. Briley, 946 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh, president; Elmer Layden, Duquesne Uni­versity, Pittsburgh, vice-president; and Charles W. Martin, 204 S. Graham St., Pittsburgh, secretary and treasurer. 
I wish you would put a notice in the ALUMNUS to the effect that the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania has weekly luncheons at the Hotel Henry, Pittsburgh, at 12:15 every TTiursday and all Notre Dame alumni are invited. 
CHARLES W . MARTIN, Sec. 
• 




THE ALUMN 
DEATHS 

BROTHER BARNABAS, F.S.C., LL.D. '24, founder of the Knights of Columbus Boy Guidance course at Notre Dame, and of the National Con­ference of Catholic Charities, died at Albuquerque, April 22, after a lingering illness. He was seventy-five years old. The following obituary has been written for the ALUMNUS by Raymond Hoyer, director of the Boy Guidance course at Notre Dame: 
Whereever boys' work is known, the death of that great apostle of youth. Brother Barnabas, F.S.C., will be received with sorrow. Especially, will Notre Dame feel a real sense of loss in the passing on of this inspiring figure. While not a graduate, still Brother Barnabas looked upon Notre Dame as his alma mater, not only because of the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws whi':h he received in 1924, but because of his admiration for the institution itself and the men it produced. 
Brother Barnabas was born in Ogdensburg, N. Y., in 1865, and graduated from St. Joseph's Normal College in 1887. He was a member of the Christian Brother's Community and began his work with boys as a teacher in St. Patrick's Parochial School in New York City. 
To cite his long list of achievements during th3 forty years that followed would require more space than this article will permit. Suffice to say, he was always in the fore-front of every movement that had for its purpose the cause of youth. National recog­nition soon followed his early successes. He was asked to serve on a number of commissions including the one appointed by President Roosevelt on the Standards of Child Welfare. His advice was eagerly sought by organizations such as the Boy Scouts. Child Welfare League, Playground Association and Boys' Club Federation, to mention only a few. As far as his interest in boys was concerned. Brother was truly Catholic. 
His last and possibly greatest work, however, was in connection with the Knights of Columbus. In 1923, Brother Barnabas was appointed executive sec­retary of the Boy Life Bureau of that great body of Catholic laymen. One of the first projects under­taken was the establishment of the Boy Guidance course at Notre Dame. He clearly saw the necessity of trained, cultured Catholic leadership; indeed, leadership training was his watchword and much of the boys' work program of the Knights of Columbus was shaped to this end. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
For five years. Brother Barnabas traveled through­
out the United States and Canada carrying his mes­
sage telling the importance of leisure-time guidance 
of boys into hundreds of cities. His spirit of un­
selfish service, his genunie humility and his youthful 
enthusiasm literally carried all before them. He 
proved the master salesman when it came to selling 
"boys right," as he liked to term it. Whenever he 
arose to speak, he seemed to radiate inspiration that 
actually brought audiences to their feet. That he be­
lieved implicitly in a righteous cause could never be 
doubted by any one who ever had the good fortune to 
hear him. 
His loss is irreparable; he can not be replaced! 
Indeed, it would almost seem that the Creator must 
have destroyed the mould in which this simple, little 
Brother was fashioned. But the spirit of Brother 
Barnabas can never die, no matter how long his 
frail, worn body may remain in the dust. 
We at Notre Dame who knew and loved hira will 
always be motivated by his ideals and will work with 
renewed effort to make his dreams come true. For 
many years, men engaged in the work of boy guid­
ance will hold the memory of this man of God in 
the highest esteem and affection. While his work for 
boys was largely in the Catholic field, his interest far 
transcended any denominational bounds. He seemed 
lo belong to all, regardless of class, creed, color or 
nationality. He was beloved by Catholic and non-
Catholic alike. 
His death occurred on April 22, after a protracted illness in St. Joseph's Sanitorium, Albuquerque, New Mexico. Burial took place in the Brothers of the Christian School's Community plot, Sante Fe, New Mexico, three days later. May he rest in peace! 
Hundreds of alumni will learn with genuine sorrow of the death of "Brother Hi." BROTHER HILAR­lON, CS.C. (William Garrett) died at the Com­munity House, Notre Dame, on April 19. He was Torn at Cappamore, County Limerick, Ireland, Feb­ruary 2, 1846. For years he has been a familiar figure about the campus, and has been an ardent follower of Notre Dame athletics. 
MARRIAGES Mr. William J. Clune announces the marriage of his daughter, Dorothy, to MR. WILLIAM J. MOONEY, JR., '15. on Tuesday, April 30, in In­dianapolis. Mr. and Mrs. John Francis Fitzgerald announce the marriage of their daughter Agnes to JOSEPH FRANCIS GARGAN, on Saturday, April 27, Dor­chester, Mass. Mrs. Gargan is the daughter of former THayor Fitzgerald of Boston, and was once toasted by Sir Thomas Lipton as "the most beautiful girl in the world." The groom is now practicing cor­poration law in New York City. After his gradua­tion, LL,B. '17, he was commissioned in the Marines, was wounded at Chateau Thierry. He was a military attache at the American Embassy in Paris during the Peace Conference, serving later in a similar 
•capacity
 in Rome. 

Mrs. Rose Coleman announces the marriage of her 

•daughter
 Regina to CHARLES J. ROBRECHT at St. .Alphonsus Church, Wheeling, W. Va., May 15, Mr. 


and Mrs. Robrecht will be at home after June 10 at 685 Boyd .4.ve., Baton Rouge, La. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles D. Terry announce the mar­riage of their daughter Katharine Charlotte to WILLIAM ROMUALD DOOLEY ('26) on Wednes­day, May 8, in the Church of the Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Kewaneee, III. FRANK CAL­VIN, '23, and ED AHLERING, '25, were t%vo of the ushers. REV. ^VILLIAM BURKE (El. '28) per­formed the ceremony. A reception at the Terry home followed. Mr. and Mrs. Dooley left for a honeymoon in the South and will be at home on their return at IS Elizabeth St., Hammond, where Bill is in the publicity department of the N. Ind. Public Service Co. Mrs. Dooley is a graduate of St. Mary's ('28) and the wedding party resembled a Sunday afternoon across the way. Bill was editor of the SCHOLASTIC in '26, a member of the Glee Club. 
EUGENE SCHWARTZ, '27, and Miss Virginia Krafthefer, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James Krafthe­fer, were married in St. Francis Xavier's Church, Willmetfe, III., on April 27. Breakfast at the Shaw­nee Country Club followed the ceremony. Mrs. Schwartz is a former St. Mary's girl. Charles Schwartz, Gene's brother, a junior in Commerce at 
N. D., was best man, 
JOSEPH QUENTIN WILDEMAN, '28, and Miss Avelon Hedwige Frank, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William A. Frank, were married Tuesday, April 21, in St. Michael's Church, Hollidaysburg, Pa. They will be at home in Philadelphia after June 1. 
The following account of the wedding of Harry F. Kelly, '17, president of the Detroit club, and Miss Anne V. O'Brien is from the Detroit Neics of May 4: 
A nuptial mass celebrated this morning at 10 o'clock in the Visitation Church was that of Miss Ann V. O'Brien, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Michael 
E. O'Brien, and HARRY F. KELLY, son of Mr. and Mrs. Harry M. Kelly. Miss Eleanor O'Brien attended her sister. Emmett Kelly served his Brother as best man. 
A wedding breakfast was served at the Lee Plaza for the immediate families and out-of-town guests. A reception was held at the O'Brien home on Edison avenue from 1 to 3 o'clock. Mr. an J Mrs. Kelly will leave for Chicago, from'where they will proceed to the northern woods for a five weeks' wedding trip. 
In a private ceremony Wednesday morning, April 24, Miss Virginia McCormick, daughter of Bishop and Mrs. John M. McCoi-mick, Grand Rapids, was married to MICH.A.EL THOMAS FREEMAN SCULLY, '20, of New York City. Mr. and Mrs. Scully will be at home after May 15 at 50 Central Park West, New York City. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

The engagement of Miss Margaret Mary Maloney, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John E. Maloney, Chicago, to JAMES A. RONAN, '26, 5020 Ellis Ave., Chicago, was announced last month at a dinner at the Edge­water Beach Hotel celebrating the silver wedding 
anniversary of her parents. Miss Maloney is a graduate of Rosary College, River Forest. 
Mr. and Mrs. Albert J. Fountain of Mesilla, New Mexico, announce the engagement of their daughter Tillie to FRED RUIZ, '28, son of Mr. and Mrs. A. 
R. Ruiz of Las Cruces. The wedding will take place June 2 at Las Cruces. Fred is a graduate of the College of Law and taught Spanish for several years at Notre Dame. 
Formal announcement is made of the engagement of Miss Phyllis Whitcomh, South Bend, and STAN­LEY A. GRINAGER, '28, Fergus Falls, Minn. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. G. A. FARABAUGH ('04, '07), an­
nounce the birth of a son on April 19th. The Judge 
says that with an eight and a half pound start, the 
new stadium is going up just in time. 
On April 3, AL CUSICK, western manager of the 
General Outdoor Advertising Company, and Mrs. 
Cusick became the parents of a daughter, Gertrude 
Anne. The charming mother, Mr. McPHEE writes 
from Denver, is doing well, but the strenuous father 
has gone to New York to recuperate. 
A card from Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD MUI^ 
li.'VNEY ('25), announces the birth of Patricia Ann, 
April 4, weight 6 pounds, 11 ounces. Congratula­
tions should be addressed to 4120 Bedford Road, 
Grosse Pointe, Detroit, Mich. 
Prof, and Mrs. EDW.A.RD A. HUTH ('27), of 
1014 E. Cedar St., South Bend, announce the birth of 

a daughter, Mary Josephine, bom April 2. Mr. Huth 
has been teaching in the department of History at 

Notre Dame during the past three years. According 
to the happy parents little Mary Jo has been slated 
for the Class of 1950 at St. Marj''s. 

PERSONAL 

(Ed. Note: Names of additional classmen who ex­pect to be back for Commencement are listed under their Class.) 
Before 1880 
Mark Foote '73, 501 City Hall, Chicago, 
Secretary. 

Mr. Foote writes: It was a great pleasure to hear from our old loyal friend and alumnus, HENRY NEWMARK, of the Class of 1878, who celebrated his golden anniversary at the Commencement last year. Since then he has undergone an operation for cataracts from Avhich we are delighted to hear he has recovered successfully. He regrets that a contem­plated trip to Europe will prevent his attendance this year, but he promises to "cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame" at a game in Chicago this fall. He prides himself on being the "Dean of the Cleveland Club" and extends greetings of loyal friendship to all. 
About Mr. Foote, the Collegiate Club, of which he is a member, writes: Mr. Foote was 75 years old on April 14 and in celebration of his birthday and his 35 years' service in the Comptroller's Office of the Chicago City Hall, he was presented with a platinum watch and chain by his city hall associates. For a niunber of years Mr. Foote has had charge of esti­mates en which budgets and appropriations are based. 


1880-1885 
Prof. Robt. M. Anderson. Stevens Inst, of Tech. 
Hoboken. N. J., Secretary. 
EDWARD J. FOGARTY, who has been warden of 

the Cook County jail, Chicago, since his resignation 
as warden of the Indiana State penitentiary at 
Michigan Citj-, was apopinted warden of the new-
Indiana State Reformatory at Pendleton by Governor 
Leslie in April, but reconsidered his resignation from 
the C<)ok County jail when he was promised freedom 
from political interference in the execution of his 
office there. Mr. Fogarty has won nation-wide 
recognition for his penal reforms, and there was 
hurried action in Cook County when his resignation 
was received. He recently effected the successful 
transfer of 1,400 prisoners from the old jail to the 
new plant. 
1887 
Hon. Warren A. Carter, Ludington, Mich., 
Secretary. 

A letter from Mr. CARTIER informs the Editor 
that he has returned from his winter quarters in 
Fort Myers and is making hurried business adjust­
ments in Ludington to enable him to attend the 
Commencement exercises. 

1890-1893 

Ix)uis P. Chute, 7 University Ave,, Minneapolis 
Secretary. 

An editorial from the South Bend News-Times 
gives a splendid picture of the general esteem in 
which Father Cavanaugh is held by his non-Notre 
Dame friends. The occasion was his 35th anniversai-y 
in the priesthood. 
Thirty-five years a priest, the Rev. John Cav­
anaugh, C.S.C., former president of the University 
of Notre Dame, is receiving the felicitations of his 
friends on the length of his days and the happiness 
and usefulness of his life. 
To know Father Cavanaugh is to love him. Men 
of his rare spirit take the American system of har­
mony and peace among those of varying creeds out 
of the realm of theory and make it a fact. And 
not only does Father Cavanaugh count many Protes­
tants among his friends and admirers; he also exem­
plifies the ideal of his Master by his willingness to 
associate with publicans and sinners. 
Probably the thing said oftenest about Father Cavanaugh locally is that he has done much to bring the University community and the city closer. That is a contribution to both city and university. Both institutions, the one religious and the other civic, owe him much for that great work. 
But Father Cavanaugh's most important attribute is his capacity for being kind, for being thoughtful, for being generous, for being affectionate, for being a warm human friend to men and women who need him. They delight to share their joys with him; they are quick to take their troubles to him. 
As an educator, as an authority on English, a master of the written and spoken word. Father Cav­anaugh is one of the important men of the Roman Catholic school system. But he bursts the walls of the classroom; he gets outside the boundaries of the university. 
He belongs to all of us. We love him. May he live forever! 
1894 1908 
Hugh A. O'Donnell, The New York Times, N. Y. City, Secretary. 
The Class Secretary is alleged to be taking a vaca­tion, and a real vacation—forgetting the bustle of '12nd and Broadway under the frequently mentioned sunny skies of Spain and on the equally storied blue waters of the Mediterranean, territory not without a special appeal to the members of the Clan O'Donnell. 
1899 

Dr. Joseph E. Duane, 41S Jefferson BIdg., Peoria, 311., Secretary. 
A recent tragedy of lawlessness and youth in Chi­cago resulted in the calling of a special jury by Coroner Bundesen in an attempt to make the case a study of type and trend, from which he hoped to derive valuable conclusions for future action. A Chicago paper reported the jury as "probably the most learned and august sextet that ever sat on a coi-oner's jury anywhere." Certainly the little burst of pride was pardonable when among the rest the Editor read "SHERMAN STEELE, professor of law at Loyola." 
1901 

Joseph J. Sullivan, 160 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, Secretary. 
COMING! Sullivan, Joseph J., Chicago, 111. 
CAN'T (?) COME! Smith, Edward C, Harrisburg, Pa. Tierney, Will H., Seattle, Wash. 
1902 

Peter P. McEIIigott, 320 Vr. 23rd St.. New York City, Secretary. 
COMING! Crimmins, T. C, East St. Louis, 111. Garza, Rodolfo M., Monterey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico. Pick, John B., West Bend, Wis. 
CAN'T (?) COME! Meyer, Fred W., Los Angeles, Calif. 
1903 
Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. BIdg.. Milwaukee, Wis., Secretary. 

REV. MATTHEW J. WALSH. C.S.C, former president of the University, who was near death from from a severe attack of pneumonia, is convalescing. He left St. Joseph's Hospital several weeks ago and is now resting at Holy Cross College, Washington. 
B. C. 
1904 

Robert Proctor, Monger BIdg., Elkhart, Ind., Secretary. COMING! 
Dukette, Frank F., Three Rivers, Mich. Shea, Rev. Michael J., Yonkers, N. Y. 
G. A. FARABAUGH, in addition to his contribu­tion to the Births column this month, has been very prominent in two e-xtensive new activities of the University, the subdivision and sale of a number of lots on the southern boundary of the campus, known as University Heights, and the box-sale plan of financing for the new^ stadium. 
Frank X. Cull, Bulkley BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Secretary. 

Exide-lronclad Topics, house organ of the Electric Storage Battery Co., Philadelphia, contains in the February issue an article on the part electric loco­motives played in the construction of the new eight-mile tunnel of the Great Northern Railway through the Cascade Mountains. The article was by J. D. SINNOTT, Seattle branch of the company. 
1909 

John B. Kanaley, 29 LaSalle St.. Chicago, 
Secretary. 

A recent letter from JOHN V. DIENER about the new Notre Dame Club of the Fox River Valley also brought the good news that John is now the mayor of Green Bay. 
1911 

Fred L. Steers, First Natl. Bank BIdg., Chicago, 
Secretary. 

A note from F. A. GLEIM, who has moved to Presidio, Texas, says that, acting as the Notre Dame Club of Presidio, he enjoyed U. N. D. Night with the radio and the ALUMNUS. He is the Gleim of Leverett & Gleim, general merchandise. 
1912 

Edmund H. Savord, Box X35, Sandusky. Ohio. 
Secretary. 

WENDELL PHILLIPS, B. Arch., who is associated with McGinnis & Walsh. Boston, was on the campus April 25 on business. 
1914 
Frank H. Hayes, 25 N. Dearborn St. 
Secretary. 

"Recently while visiting in California I looked up WILLIAM CUSACK of 1914 and had a long chat with him regarding the '14 law men. He was particularly interested in IKE FEDER and TIM DOWNEY, and said that he never sees anything about them in the ALUMNUS and wants to know if they are dead or alive. Let's hear from Ike and Tim as to their whereabouts and their activities. William is now a member of the law firm of Derthick and Hull, 307 W. 8th St., Los Angeles. Frank Hayes." 
1915 

James E. Sanford, 8212 Kenwood Ave., Chicago, HI. 
Secretary. 

ART CARMODY writes from 819 Slattery BIdg.. Shreveport, La., "Where in or out of civilization is HARRY M. NBWNING?" (The last address in the Office is the American Club, Mexico City.) 
1916 

Timothy P. Galvin, 708 First Trust BIdg., Hammond 
Ind., Secretary. 

"ALFRED F. 'AL' FRIES, C.E. '16. has just been made vice-president and general manager of the Pei-u Foundry Company of Peru, Ind. He succeeded Mr. P. V. Gartland, of Indianapolis, one of Indiana's best known business men. The genial At has been associated with the Gartland interests in Indiana for several years and he has risen step by step in the organization, his present important position coming as the culmination of steady progress. Tim Galvin." 
1918 
John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth St., Escanaba, Mich., Secretary. A letter from JOHN LEMMER says that FRANK 
J. HURLEY recently visited Kscanaba N. D. men while on business there in behalf of the Lumbermen's Mutual Casualty Co. of Chicago. 
1920 
Vincent Fagan, Notre Dame Secretary. COMING! 
Clohessy, Francis J., Waverly, New York. Hassenauer, Leo J., Chicago, III. Maguire, Rev. Patrick, Murray, Utah. Musmaker, John L., Greenfield, Iowa. Clements, Menefee R., South Bend, Ind. 
CAN'T (?) COME! Murphy, George L., Williston, N. D. 
1921 
Alden J. Cusick, 1940 Curtis Ave., Denver, Colo., Secretary. COMING! 
Colgan, A. J., New Y'ork City. Cusick, Al., Denver, Colo. Foley. William E., Chicago, III. Gorrilla, Laurence V., Little Rock, Ark. McEvoy, J. P.. Woodstock, N. Y. Van Aarle, T. F.. Saginaw, Mich. 
1922 
Frank Blasius, Jr., 24 Main St., Logan, Ohio, Secretary. COMING! 
Keeney, Arthur C, Akron, Ohio. Lovett, Leo J., South Bend," Ind. McCabe, James R., Madison, Wis. McCabe, Thomas, Chicago, 111. Rahe, John S., Madison, Ind. Shaw, J. C, Des Moines, Iowa. 

JIM FOREN writes from Detroit that he is Com­mencement bound and asks the Office to hold a choice room in "Siberia" for him. It looks as though Siberia and Cadillac Hall will have to be pressed into service for the crowd. 
1923 
John Montague, 1448 Albion St., Chicago, Secretary. COMING! 
Byrne, John, Minneapolis, Minn. Collins, Elmer J., East St. Louis, III. Cordray, R. E., Drexel Hill. Pa. Donaldson, J. F., Hammond, Ind. Hines, Eugene M., Chicago, 111. Rolwing, E. Merlin, Indianapolis, Ind. 
CAN'T (?) COME! "'' ' Cotton, F. .G., Davenport, Iowa. Torres, Jesse. N., .New York City. The report of the Secretary of the Chicago Club 

concerning Universal Night appears elsewhere in this issue but he could not mention the '23 crowd that gathered there. First and foremost was TOM UEB , who shared with Rockne the honors of the evening and Tom made us all proud to be members of the Skido Class. 
JOHN NORTON and LOUIE DE SMET arrived 

early and picked out a great large table near the door where they could gather together the '23 men as they entered. JOE TROMAN and BRUCE HOLMBERG said that the letter from FRANK WALLACE in the last ALUlfNUS decided them once and forever to be present at every '23 reunion. ED GOULD was there, and JOHN HENEGAUHAN. and MAURICE DACY. STAN BRADBURY came with MATT KEEGAN. JAMES E. MARTIN and JAMES 
R. MARTIN were there, and STAN JACOBS, and DAN CULHANE. and RODGE KILEY, and MARTY BRENNAN, and HERB VALKER. and GENE HINES. DICK NASH was so taken back at the great crowd of '23 men that he introduced BILL VOSS as BRUCE HOLMBERG—and so it went all evening with everybody insisting that everybody else be back on the campus on the last day of May. Dear John: 
Just read the last issue of the NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS, and to feel in touch again with the 
Class members, whose interesting letters appear, cer­
tainly arouses a great desire to get back to the 
reunion. 
However, distance, the overcrowded condition of 
transportation, the under-crowded condition of my 
purse, and the fact that soon I am to marry Miss 
Harriett Sardell of Culver City, California, will make 
it improbable that I will attend the Commencement. 
I came to California in November, 1927. Since that time I have been with the Sales Department of the Frigidaire Sales Corp., here in Los Angeles. We have one of the largest salesrooms that the Frigidaire Company has in the United States, and I am now sales floor supervisor. 
I joined the Los Angeles Notre Dame Club shortly after I arrived here, and have renewed acquaintances with MIKE GIBBONS, HAROLD BERG, and many others. 
I send my regards to all the fellows, and if any of them get out here I shall want them to look me up. I shall be glad to help make their visit pleasant, for it's always fair weather out here—except when it rains, or is cool—then it is very exceptional or un­usual weather for California. 
Yours as ever, 
PETE SWANSOX. 

Dear John: Was in Chicago for the N. D.-Navy.game last fall but much to my regret did not lay an eye to your benevolent countenance. Did see a, great number of the Class of '23 and decided at that time to make a real effort to attend the Commencement this June. Delayed answering your form letter in regard to same until I knew whether I could make it or not. The chances now seem to favor my being among those to answer "yeh!" to the roll call, and unless something unavoidable occurs, I'll be there, under a bo.-c car or some way. While in Chicago saw ED GOULD, DEVER, PFEIFFER, ED LUTHER, JOHN BUCKLEY" and quite a few others. Was disappointed in not seeing yourself, DACY, STEPHAN, MATT KEEGAN, O'GRADY, NORTON, DISNEY, BILL RYAN, and many others, but look forward to renewing old friendships on Friday before Commencement. Wish all the old sang who used to hang out in 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
your "hundred yard dash" in AValsh Hall of our Sophomore year could get together. It would seem like old times to have Father O'Hara break into a blackjack game. 
Will look forward to seeing you the last of May. Your old friend, "HY" HUXT. Dear John: 
Y'ou must know that I am particularly anxious to retui-n to our reunion in June, and if it is at all possible I certainly will make the grade. I have been very busy of late and this is really the first oppor­tunity I have had to scratch off a few lines to you, so please do not think me negligent. 
The account of your trip through Ohio was very interesting and I only regret that I could not have been with you to enjoy a visit with JOHN FLYNN and the other boys whom you saw. I recall many enjoyable times had with John Flynn in New York when I was going to school in the East. 
At a Club dinner in Detroit I saw HARVEY BROAVN for the first time in several years. He is still the same old Harvey and is interning here at Provi­dence Hospital. Among those attending were GUS DORAIS, JBI FORBN, JACK HIGGINS and DAN SULLIVAN. I saw JERRY RANDALL some two or three weeks ago and he plans to return to the reunion in June. AL SLAGGERT says that he was up in Saginaw two or three weeks ago and was talk­ing to LARRY STR.ABLE and that Larry plans to return too. 
Sincerely, 
CHAULES MARTIN. 

Dear John: First of all I want you to count me PRESENT this June. I would not miss the opportunity of getting together with the fellows for all the insurance in Louisville. Last year's reunion proved to me that the associations made in college can't be duplicated in the "cold world" that we have been thrown into since 1923. The few days we spent together seemed exactly like the old times. Calls in the corridors, visiting the rooms, planning activities for the nights, putting some of the fellows to bed, visiting with the prefects and say, it was great have Father Carey and Father Haggerty talk to us in the way we were accustomed to at N. D., but fail to find in the religious life in the City. These points, together with seeing the old fellows, DICK NASH, JACK NORTON, JOHNNY BYRNE, TOM PLOUFF, CHAS. MARTIN, FRANK G.4.LVIN, BILL VOSS, ED. SHEA, JERRY RAN­DALL, my co-partner, BILL FITZGERALD—say, I have to stop on names because I could easily fill up the page telling you all the old boys that were back. Also I am getting away from the point of how great is was to see them again. 
No doubt you are expecting double the crowd this year because the ones attending last Spring won't fail to be back and I know each of us will bring an additional member. I have mine already. ART ANGERMEIER, who is going like a "million dol­lars" in Louisville, will tour up with me. I know. 
Johnny, it is mighty hard to stop reminiscing when you once get on the point, but an ocifasion like last year makes me desirous for this June to start rolling around. In the fall I came aci'oss a few of the old Class but there is nothing like getting together in­dividually and not with the "ball and chain." 
Everything is moving along in a nice fashion here in Louisville. The Insurance business is still my hobby and every year that is behind me, I feel that I am making one step forivard to that goal of suc­cess, for which we are all striving. 
As I told you early in the letter. Art Angermeier is going great, also CLIF DOLL, RANDALL DEMPF, and BEN RUSSELL, who were members of our Class. 
Well Johnny, I guess I will have to put a close to this letter or you will think it is a summary of Father Bolger's "economic quiz." However, I want to tell you that I will see you in June and in the meantime I wish you to remember me to ED GOULD, DICK NASH and all the Chicago boys. 
Best personal regarSs until I see you May 31. 
CORXIE J. PFEIFFEI!. 

Dear friend John: Just got to thinking this afternoon that in a few short weeks the Class of '23 reunes again and, it's a sobering thought, it's the last time in many kmg years. Too many years of uncertainties to pass up this chance of re-living the days of Sorin Hall with the same Old Gang again. If from only a selfish point of viev/ alone I have to see these fellows who made my four years at Notre Dame the finest in my life. To see them will be an inspiration and I need it and—well, you'll find me on the campus grinning over a '23 badge again in June. No need to worry about the fellows you saw last June. They will all be back. They wouldn't miss it. But John, how about those fellows we expected to see but who didn't show up. Have they forgotten Notre Dame? No, that's impossible. They were just holding back for this year and we will forgive them, but they will never forgive themselves when they learn what they missed. —^And remember wandering around back of Sorin Hall about four o'clock Saturday morning? Didn't it seem like 1923? Most all the old gang were there, a couple of Johns, two Bills, one Charley—well let's not mention names. I wish we could tell about those four fellows who were so seriously and so helplessly trying to skive into Sorin via the fire-escape. Some­how—for some reason, they had forgotten that their Degrees had been safely tucked away in the attic trunk the last six years. Friday and Saturday are the BIG DAYS WITH 
LARGE EVENINGS.  Get the gang there for them.  
Your  friend.  
HOLLY  GRINAGEB.  
My dear  John:  

I am sending you this letter to advise you that will be at Notre Dame for the Commencement exer­cises this year, and am looking fonvard very much to another reunion like the one we had last year. Of course. I am situated in South Bend right along, but for this occasion 1 am going to move ray residence to Notre Dame to be with the "old gang." 
I have been in South Bend for every Commence­ment since leaving School, but none of them have compared with the one held last June, whcih can be attributed directly to the plan of having class re­union. The Dix plan, of course, just makes this a 
little hetter, so you can rest assured that I am look-
ins forward with a great deal of expectancy and 
pleasure to this June. 

My roommate at School, "RED" SHEA, is going 
to be back and I understand HENRY BARNHART 
is coming over from Lima, Ohio. I have also heard 
from ROGER KILEY and I know he is making plans 
to he here. 

You state fifty men in our Class attest that Friday 
and Saturday nights are the gala nights, and as I 
haven't attested yet to this fact, you can make it 
fifty-one. 

I will be looking forward to seeing you as well 
as the rest of the fellows in June. 

With best wishes and kindest personal regards, 
I am. 
Very sincerely yours, 
PAUL CASTNER. 
Dear John: 

The April ALUMNUS is in my hands and I am 
mighty glad to find so many '23 men planning to 
return to the campus in June. Those interesting 
letters from BARNHART, ED KRAMER, FR-^NK 
WALLACE, F.ATHER MURCH, and my old fellow-
traveler, JOHN CAVANAUGH, were surely good to 
see, and I am like Barney and others, I think that 
a good many '23 men who failed to show up in 1928 
ought to make it their prime purpose to be with us 
this time. 

1 want to add my name to the group already heard from. John, by saying that if at all possible I will be back this year. I am not as far off as I was last year, which is just as well, because it took me eight days continuous driving over 2500 miles of road to get from Phoenix, Arizona, to South Bend, and I fear I would hardly repeat the adventure this year were I that far away today. 
Still, when one thinks of good old ED LENNON and the rest who would have been back with us last year (if they could), he realizes how fast the years pass and how quickly our ranks will grow thinner, so it is up to each man to return to the old school while he can. 1 see that MEL ROHRBACH and CORNIE PFEIFFER will be on deck, and I hope to see JOHN C.A.VANAUGH there, also old PETE SWANSON and JOHNNY REDDINGTON, as the four of us have traveled some together and I have some interesting news for them about the great old boat we sailed on. My ex-roommates, SLA.URIGE DACY and STAN BRADBURY, should be there and learn hew much they missed by their absence a year ago. 
Sincerely, "MERL" ROLWING. Dear Monty: 

Your letters concerning the activities of the Notre Dame Alumni are always interesting and this last one referring to the reunion of '23 men in June is, perhaps, the most important. 
While there is nothing that I would like more to do than to be back with the boys, I have lately taken unto myself a wife and for this reason and other business reasons do not feel as though I will be able to get back at all. However, if there is any possi­bility I will let you know as soon as it becomes a certainty that I can be back. 
Kindest regards to yourself and all the other men, I beg to remain Very sincerely, 
H. J. LAUERJIA^;. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Aye., New York City, Secretary. 
COMING! Dore, John J., Cleveland, Ohio. Gilfoyle, Richard B.. Milford, Mass. Kelly, Thomas A., C.S.C, Brookland. D. C. Lang, Raymond J., Mishawaka, Ind. JIayl, Eugene A., Dayton, Ohio. Molz, Charles O., Detroit, Mich. Stapleton, Walter J., Bridgeport, Conn. 
CAN'T (?) COME! Buell, Pat, Dallas, Texas. Cooper, C. J., Big Lake, Texas. Gallagan, W. R., Sao Paulo, Brazil. Gallagher, Rev. Donald S., Potsdam, N. Y. Leonard, Brother, C.S.C, New Orleans, La. Sullivan, Edward S., Denver, OIo. Willinghanz, E., Charleston, W. Va. 
A card from FATHER DON GALLAGHER, St. Mary's Rectory, Potsdam, says, "It is impossible for me to be with the Class for the Reunion. This year the Bishop comes to our Parish for Confirmation and the date was set for May 30—which prevents my leaving Potsdam. I am sorry, for I have looked especially during the list four years to the "home­coming" this year at Notre Dame. God willing, I'll he with you before long, though." 
Two other members of the Class have failed in their tries to make Boston and N. D. meet. AL BIRIHNGHAM and HUGH BLUNT drove through Notre Dame May 2 with the sad news that they could not get back May 31. 
1925 
John W. Scallan, 703 Pullman Bldg.. 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, Secretary. 
The following letter from JOE MENGER was for­warded to the surprised Editor by JOHN W. SCAL­LAN. (Scallan and Jerry Hayes, '26, secretary of that Class, have had the crust to get together and Hayes asked the Editor to go easy on Scallan, that he's busy. The Editorial heart makes Simon Legree's i-ate as philanthropic. But maybe it would satisfy everybody if you would write Scallan or the Editor direct, of your own free will, enclosing some of the many interesting things that are bound to be hap­pening to the Class of '25. Which, as you must re­member, will have its Reunion in 1930.) 

Just a line in haste. Here's the dope about some of the fellows. MIKE NEEDHAM, JR., father of Michael Needham IH, 9 months old, is a member of the firm of (3ourand-Hess-Needham, Inc., distributors of the Auburn car in 80 counties. The Hess referred to is none other than our esteemed friend, LEONARD MARK HESS, who, although connected with the firm, spends the greater part of his time on his dad's ranch 300 miles west. BILL DIELMANN, known as William V. Jr., is associated with the J. C. Dielmann Construction Co. JOHN W. SNAKARD writes from Ft. Worth that he is holding down a 
new job with the Texas Air Transport Service, Inc., the largest air concern in the South, and wanted to know if Needham-Hess needed any airplane motors for their Aubums. ALBERT J. DE LORENZL the .irenial "Battler" from Dallas, is chief chemist for the Coca Cola Co. there and supplies half the state \vith that mild refreshing heverage. Ever since FRANCIS 
W. "CHIEF" LEARY of Eastland got married in South Bend last October we haven't heard a thing about him. ARTURO GONZALEZ of Laredo breezes in occasionally but spends the greater part of his time in Mexico. Unofficial rumors emanating from El Paso bring the news that REUBEN MOMSEN after any number of post graduate courses and trips to Europe has finally hung out a shingle and is prac­ticing law. JOSEPH DALY SKELLEY formerly prominently identified with Leary and Snakard as owners of the "morgue" on the second floor of "Welch's Hall" has climbed the ladder and is now head of the legal department of a Chicago title and trust company. So much for the Class of '25 in Texas. 
A letter from MYRON E. HOOD says. "The Penn­sylvania R. R., for which I am working as assistant supervisor since April 15th, this year, has just trans­ferred me to this district (Williamsport, Pa.—675 Campbell Ave. to be exact) from Cincinnati, Ohio, where I worked for three years as assistant on the Engineer Coi-ps. I will be glad to hear either di­rectly or through the ALUMNUS, the whereabouts and occuaptiori of ARTHUR BERGERON, ARTURO GONZALEZ, JOSE FIGUERIDO, "SLICK" O'NEILL and GEORGE DRISCOLL, '25, and GEORGE CHAD, '26. (The Editor sent jMyron all the addresses except George Chao's, and George is somewhere in Europe: Lausanne probably, but no definite address. Will appreciate.) 
B.A.RNEY M.A.CNAB has turned up air-minded out at March Field, Riverside, Califoi"nia, in the U. S. Air Service. In a letter to COL. J. P. O'NEIL. '83, Barney says that he likes the Ai-my life and is feeling more at home in the air eveiy day. Barney goes to Kelly Field, Texas, if he pursues the course to the end, and he says he may even stay in the service after graduation. 
1926 

Jerry Hayes, 3117 Washington Blvd., Chicago, 111., Secretary. Dear Jim: 
Here's some tonic for our emaciated column. Your prescription of sulphur and molasses—very slowly moving and so forth! I hope, Jim, you will be able to get these hurried and belated notes-"under the wire." 
I am enclosing a delightful little letter of Bernie Coughlin's. I am sure all the boys will be glad to get this word of Bernie's happy progress in St. Paul. 
We expected to see you here on Universal Notre Dame Night but I understand you felt duty-bound to patty>nize the neighborhood club. There were heaps of fellows present at our meeting whom I haven't seen for months and about whom there could he lots of news. I failed, however, to take notes. 
This would be an "auspicious"—^Watts Eicher likes that word—^moment for a letter merely on matri­monial affairs of the class of '28, but I have no 
doubt, Jim, that you will take care of that in your 
obituary, column. RONAN is the latest to announce 
his impending resignation from the Bachelor's Club, 
you know, and among those for whom the dates have 
been set are: BILL DOOLEY (presently), PAUL 
HARRINGTON (June, I believe), HERB EGGERT 
(June). GEORGE HARTNETT and STEVE PIE­
TROWICZ (shortly). There are merely a few. I 
have had no reports from the Eastern front lately. 
A new arrival in Chicago is STANLEY BOYLE. Stan is living at 5510 ,W. Monroe St. and is working for the Edison Electric Appliance Company as a i-esearch engineer, having acquired his M. S. at Boston Tech last year. It was Stan who spilled the dope about Paul Harrington. He also reports on the following engineers: PAUL SKELLY and JOE QUINLAN with the Indiana Bell Telephone Company in Indianapolis; CHARLIE MASON, district plant superintendent of the Indiana Bell at Kol^omo; CARL ROGGE with a power company in Jackson, Mich.; FRANK M.A.YER with the Northern Minnesota Pow­er Company; and a lawyer—^MIKE REDDINGTON who prospers in Indianapolis. 
"BRICK" SMITH, '27, came to town with the St. Louis Browns last week. Brick is working sports for the St. Louis Star and he must follow the Browns in their good fortune over the American League cir­cuit. Brick tells me that JIM JIAHER has left St. Louis for Pittsburgh (351 Roup Street) and that he is still with the Oxy-Weld Acetylene Company. HERB EGGERT, who is Brick's roomie, is going great guns with the Old Ben Goal Company and is also forming a company of his own—don't they call it the "basis of all social life"?—on June loth. Among other '26 men in St. Louis, Smith menttons EDDIE PREN­DERGAST in the contracting game and MIKE NYl-KOS, who had been coaching hasketball at the U. 
The Chicago gang go along as usual. Oftentimes a group o£ us get together at JOHN TUOHY'S and go over the old events. (Josh, Jim, we are growing aged—it will be three years next month! 
Last Sunday I dined with the Kelleghan family on the north side (1316 Bryn Mawr)—Mr. and Mrs. Jim and Tom (7 mos.). The youngster is almost as big as Jim. Jim is still with the Chicago office of the Wall St. Joimial—Dow, Jones & Co. Nearby lives DUCKY MILLER and DUKE SLATER. Duck-y and I went down to see Lou Gehrig pole out three homers yesterday. (At the game we met PAUL CR.-V.DEN—now Dr. Paul Craden. Paul is serving his internship at Mercy. DAVE MURPHY finished at Northwestern in March and is now a Dr. at St. Joe's Hospital in town. STACK and GEBHAKD next! Jimmy still takes care of the sick at the Youngstown Sheet and Tube in Evanston and Urb is "externing" in Henrotin Hospital on the near north side.) Ducky keeps himself busy with the law at Northwestern to say nothing about his taking care of LES LOVIER—the same mysterio of old i . . ­One of the boys, whom I have been seeing occasion­ally recently, is JOHN McMULLEN. John, between Falls at Creighton, plays a big role in the potato "racket" in these parts. 
Notes this month are plentiful, Jim, but I'll save a few pieces for the June issue. I hope to have a report by that time from the Eastern seaboard and. 
perhaps, the Western seaboard. Perhaps both Tom Farrell and Norb Kavanaugh will both break down and write. 
I'll be seeing you soon and in the meantime my Bestest, JERRY. Dear Jerry: 
No doubt you are quite surprised to hear from such a total stranger as myself, but you know this world is full of surprises . My silence has not been entirely voluntary for you must know from the num­ber of friends you have in seminaries that this life is a busy one. Perhaps if I had made better use of my time at N. D.. I would have had the foundation laid when I came here and the studies would not require so much time. Experience is a great teacher, but often it is an expensive one. 
I have thought about writing and wanted to write to you several times during the last few years, but somehow or other never got around to it. I regret very much not being able to keep in touch with many of my N. D. friends, but hope that they under­stand roy position. I certainly enjoy reading about the boys in the ALUMNUS every month and look forward to the time when I will be able to cor­respond with them. 
I thought that the time went fast while I was at 
N. D. but it doesn't begin to compare with the way it goes up here. I can hardly realize that this year is nearly over and that I have only one more to go. I expect to receive subdeaoon in June and with the daily office to say my duties begin. It is a great life though and I like it better every day. Guess I must have started something for as you know Louie Buckley is bere this year, and we expect one or two more N. D. men next September. We even have the Holy Gross fathers across the street at St. Thomas. 
We don't get out very often so I haven't much chance to see any of the fellows that live in the twin cities. Maybe I'll see some of them over at St. Thomas when Joe Boland holds his first practice, as I am going to try to get over for it . Also hope to get over when "Rock" comes up. Was glad to see Joe get the job for I think there is a good future because the C. S. C. are getting away big up here; they are making a real school out of St. Thomas and the people have confidence in them. 
Had hopes of getting down to Chicago and N. D. this summer and visit with some of the boys but there is no chance now as I am going up to northern Wisconsin to teach catechism. If you happen to be in the neighborhood of Hurley this summer, look me up. 
Suppose you are just about ready to call Jim Stack "Doc" by this time. I have lost all track of Jim, much to my sorrow. Tell him that I would like to hear from him and if he will send me his address, I promise to write to him shortly. 
Best wishes for your success in the studies, and my regards to all my friends whom you happen to meet. Cordially, 
BERNI E GOUGHLIN. 

SEWARD BOWER, who has been in the Misha­waka office of the South Bend Tribune since gradua­tion, has transferred to the editorial department of the Detroit Ncrvs. 
1927 
Edmund De Clereq, 7212 Circle Ave., Forest Park, 111. 
Secretary. 
TASS WATERSTON dropped a note from Brj-an, Texas, to Father GEORGE McNAMARA at St. Ed's. Tass was glad of a chance this spring to see John Law, Tim Moynihan, Jim Bray and John Colerick, who were South with the baseball team. 
1928 Louis J. Buckley, St. Paul Seminary, St. Paul, Minn., Secretary. 
The Class of '28 wishes to extend its sympathy to BERT KORZENESKI upon the death of his father which occurred a few months ago. Bert has returned to Harvard Law School. 
The following informative epistle comes from ART DENCHFIELD, writing from 420 W. 121st St., New York City, which I take from his letter must be the new camping grounds of LAYNE and CONMEY. Rather than detract from that famous Denchfield style I will quote from it directly: Dear Louie: 
I suppose I should try out the new ribbon on WALT LANE'S typewriter since I have not as yet found any labor to which I might apply myself, and since the proprietor of the aforementioned ma­chine is busily occupied in the offices of the Music Corporation of America and his room-mate, "Lord Jim," alas the ".Anamosa Flash," and now known as Sir James Hornblower Conmey, Esq., is engaged in the offices of Millet & Roe, one of the big gambling interests on Wall Street. 
LARRY J. CULLINEY was seen in the Fifth Avenue Easter parade wearing a Dobbs Chapeau priced at fifteen dollars. I know the boys up here will be tickled to death to see that notice in print, not 'because it is an indisputable fact but because of the motherly care and treatment he gives to this most inanimate of his first investments in Fifth Avenue sartorials. His room-mate, Arthur Canty, recites the oft' repeated hope uttered by Larry J. that the hat styles will not change, at least for the next four years. ART CANTY is at present em­ployed by the New York Central Raili-oad and will be promoted to the haberdashery department next Spring to take care of the ties. His nose is as red as ever, but from the sources you might guess, for since the enactment of the Jones law Art has kept under cover—not saying what he has kept under cover. 
TURK KELLY is perhaps the most sane and sagacious of the '28 crowd. He is making a trip to the "Y" gym twice a week to keep himself in trim to meeet the pretty maids who hand over paid advertisements to be placed in the Situations Wanted Female Column of the New York Times Classified Department. Turk is a good one to see for anyone who wants to know the ropes in the city. He is the O. O. Mclntyre of the employment situation. 
JACK WINGERTER is with the Sinclair Oil Co. and is concocting a little deal to be known as the Tea Cup Dome Scandal. His brother, BERNIE, is with the General Motors Acceptance Corporation. 
JOHN MclLAHON is seen every now and then by us (the 116th Division) and seems to be always on 



CAMP ROCKNE 
A Summer Camp for Boys 
WINTER, WISCONSIN - ON HUNTER LAKE JUNE 28 - EIGHT WEEKS - AUGUST 23 and Two four weeks periods. JUNE 28-JULY 26 and JULY 27-AUGUST 23 
EXPERT INSTRUCTION IN: 


Swimming, Canoeing, Baseball, Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis, Track and Horseman­ship, Woodcraft ^//^Nature Work. 
SUMMER SCHOOL and TUTORING 
(Affiliated Summer School of Pio Nono High School, Milwaukee. Authorized credits in Primary and High School Subjects.) 
DIRECTOR (and Chaplain): Rev. John J. O'Boyle, M.A., Pio Nono High School, St. Francis, Wis., (Near Milwaukee). 
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR: Thomas J. Lieb, M.A., Asst. Football and Track Coach, of Notre Dame; Graduate of Boy Guidance Course, University of Notre Dame. 
Three resident Priests and two Physicians. 
Address Inquiries to: 

REV. J. J. O'BOYLE, Pio Nono H. S., St. Francis, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Chicago Office: 

M.A.DWYBR,1663E.79thSt. Phones { I'^^^ST'(Home) 
Howie and Murph are kept on the move you can JOHN HANCOCK SERIES always reach them thiv>ugh 1811 Prairie Ave.. 




Declaration of • 
• Independence 
AY 7E have issued an offi­
''^ cially approved fac­simile parchment copy of the famous Declaration, suitable for framing. 
You may have one of these. Free of charge, upon written application to 
INQUIRY BUREAU 
LIFE INSURANCECOMPAHY^ 
or BOSTON. MASSACMUSCTTS 
197 Clarendon St., Boston, Mass. 
Please send me FREE facsimile of the Declaration of Independence. (I enclose 5 c to cover postage.) 
Name _ Address 
A.G 
-OVERSIXTY-FIVEYEARS IN BUSINESS-
his way to an interview for the Bronx Home News. PRANK BRANSON is with General Motors in the Supplies division. FRANCIS X. O'BRIEN, who was with our Class for two years, has returned from Miami University and has commenced work with the 
W. E. Grace & Co. at Hanover Square. JOE JOHN­SON, from Niles, is reported somewhere in Cathay representing the interests of the National Bank of New Y^ork City. CONNIE OCHOA, who is with United Fruit, is considering patenting his invention of Banana Bedroom Slippers with Tarantula decora­tions. 
Well Louie, if I don't sign off j-ou will be thinking that I have nothing to do except to write this stuff: well, I haven't. 
Y'ours in '28, ART DEXCIIFIELD. 
HOWIE PHALIN writes from Wichita, Kansas, wondering where he could find a Notre Dame man to celebrate Universal Night. Howie surely has kept on the move since last June. He has been in twenty-two states representing the Midland Press. The Nash has rolled 20,000 miles and has new shoes he tells us. Howie's letter was followed by one from JOHN R. MURPHY, of the Fort Wayne Murphys. telling that he had joined Howie and they had a Universal Night of their own. Murph is also with the Midland Press and has been located in Birming­ham, Alabama, before he joined Howie. He says that the Phalin group won the "quantity business prize" this winter. Nice going, Howie. Since both Chicago. 
DAN BRADLEY took time off fi:om his medic classes at Cornell to dash me a few lines. Dan says that they keep him busy at Cornell Medical School. JOHN SITER is going to desert St. Paul and join Dan next year at Cornell. Just another case of old roam-mates getting together again. It sounds bad. Dan is going back to South Bend to work for the summer. What is the attraction Dan? Dan will be in the same fix as myself regarding not being able to be back for graduation in June, We will both be writing examinations at the time. Dan's new address is 307 12th Street, Brooklyn. N. Y, 
Speaking of old noom-mates getting together, I had a letter from JOE MORRISSEY telling me that he is living with JOHN FREDRICK at 677 E. Jefferson St., Detroit, Michigan. Joe is with the Murray Corporation at present but he has signed a contract to succeed LOUIE CONROY at St. Frederick's High in Pontiac. Joe says that Johnny is kept cut of mischief between his classes at Detroit U. Law School and working in a law office his spare moments. They see VINCE STAGE, H. HOLTON and JOE SISIONIN occasionally since they also are located in Detroit. 
A newsy letter came from LEO WALSH, 4.573 Vancorved St., Detroit, Mich. Lee likes Detroit U. Law School very much. He tells us that the Uni­versal N. D. Night in Windsor was a huge success. There is no reason why it shouldn't have been so. 
Spalding Golf Shoes have but one pur­pose in life. They are golf shoes— not dolled-up street shoes. Back of every pair of Spalding Golf Shoes is 39 years' experience making athletic shoes . They give you "old shoe" com­fort from the start. And styled to get respectful attention without scream­ing. Most models—$10. Others— S12 and |15. 

f^^^^ 
! 105 Nassau St. 518 Fifth Ave. } I NEW YORK I I Sto7-es in All Large Cities. I 
t _ .JH ^, a . m • • " " • • «^<r 

THE NOTRE DAME AiUiMNus 
considering the location. Lee suggested that we set a time at one of the Chicago games for the Class to have a get-together. Now I think this is a very good idea and if we can get some of the '28 Chicago men to back it possibly we can plan a dinner for the Class, providing we can get a tinie which would not conflict with the regular Chicago Club dance. I am going to leave this suggestion open for discus­sion and I hope you will take it up when you get together in June at Graduation. Let me hear fivim you on it and if you want to have it I will try to have an announcement in the September issue, pro­viding I hear from enough of you to assure its success. 
JOE KISSLING answered my call for news with a note from Jfae-Vera Real Estate' Company, 20 Hunter Ave., Long Island City, N. Y. Joe has joined the ranks of other '28 men at Fordham Law School. According to Joe, JOHN E. FLYNN of Mount Holly, New Jersey, is with the Reichard Chocolate Company in Philadelphia. JOHN "SPIKE" CAVANAUGH has left Salem, Ohio, to lend his time to a Cleveland firm. Joe also gives us the dope on a few of the '27 men. BILL HERN, '27, who was recently married, is also at Fordham Law. BOB SHIELDS, '27, is in the Oil Burner game. Joe states that JOHN BEIRNE can always be found about lunch time in the lobby of the Woolworth Building. 
I spent a few days last week in Chicago and saw a number of the '28 men. I found my old gang still on their jobs and getting along as well as they were when I saw them in January. In this bunch are JIULLIGAN, GRAY, RAFTER, COURY and BRANNON. I found a few additions to the LaSalle Street '28 organization. At 231 S. LaSalle I found VmCE DUCY and JOHN CAVANAUGH. Vince, as you know has been ti-aveling around the world since September. After spending a few months in China he decided to come back to the U. S. and settle down in Chicago. He is with the Federal Securities and likes the finance game. He is rooming with HENRY DAVIS and CARL PETTERSCH at 3135 Kenwood. JOHN CAVANAUGH is with the 
C. F. Childs Co. and also looks as if the business was agreeing with him. BILL CRONIN, who has been at N. D. as secretary to Father Charles O'Don­nell, C.S.C., is now with Hornblower & Weeks at 39 South LaSalle St. 
I saw VINCE WALSH who is now with Western Electric. Vince lives at 246 Washington Blvd., Oak Park. BILL GOELITZ is putting the Frigidaire people on their feet. Bill's address is 639 Fair Oaks Blvd., Oak Park. BILL DWYER has joined the ranks of a number of the '28 men with Jlontgomery Ward in the advertising department of their Chicago office. The Chicago gang all promised to be on hand for commencement and the reunion. 
You will be interested to note in the Engagement .Announcements in this issue that FRED RUIZ in­tends to be married in June. Fred is practicing law in Las Cruces, New Mexico. Congratulations and lots of luck, Fred. Howie Phalin tells me that NESTOR WEIGAND, who was with our Class for a while, is to be married in June to Miss Margaret Kane of Nashville. Nestor is located in Wichita, 


Hello, Fellows! 
When in need of 
hotel service, let 

me serve you at 

Cooper "Carlton Hotel H//de Park Blvd. at 53rd St. CHICAGO 400 EOOMS : 400 BATHS American League Headquarters Home of the Crystal Ballroom 
F. H. SWEENEY, MANAGER 
Notre Dame 
A. N. MAHER, AssT. MANAGER Colorado School of Mines 

THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
Kansas, and has Ijeen very successful in the real estate business there. Rumor has it that QUENTIN WILDEatAJST was married April 23, but as yet I have received no particulars. How about it Quint? Let's have the dope for the June issue. From what I hear there will be several '28 men married within the next few months. Give up a write-up for this Column. 
Since our summer vacation here at the seminary does not begin until June 10th, I will not be able to be with you lucky ones who will be back for the Reunion in June. I hope that this column next month will be filled with a long list of '28 men who attended. At the '28 table that night at the Alumni banquet I suggest that you take it upon yourselves to collect notes from the fellows attending and give them to the Editor, so we who cannot make it will get the benefit of them in this column in the June issue. 

FRANK DAVH) was left off the mailing list of the ALUlfNUS through a slip-up in the machinery and the April issue was his first. He said the dope on TURK KELLY and ART DENCHFIELD was certainly welcome. Frank says that things are com­ing along pretty well for him. He is now rated in the civil service as an inspector and is doing field and office work on the Red River Levee Survey—a part of the Jadwin Flood Control Plan, under the supervision of the U. S. War Dept. Frank is at 1032 Tenth St., Alexandria. La. 
BILL HURLEY wrote a short but appreciated note from 70 Montrose St., Springfield, Mass. 
JIM SHOCKNESSY dropped a note from Harvard to say that some of the fellows there missed U. N. D. Night in Boston through not being notified of the observance. The Office here has the addresses of only about one-fourth of the fellows at Harvard, the others apparently getting their mail forwarded, but this list was missed by the Boston Club, who will be more than glad to include the fellows at Harvard in their activities. 
"ED McCORMACK (your faithful correspondent if ever there was one) cannot perform his duties this month and I am substituting for him. not in faith­fulness, just as correspondent. The members of the Class of '28 were much in evidence at the Fraternities Club on Universal N. D. Night. WALTER LAYNE of the Music Corp. of America seemed to be very well. GEORGE D. BYRNE looked fine despite many severe hours in the architecture school of Columbia 
U. ARTHUR .DENCHFIELD in company with the 

N. Y. Soviets is waiting for May 1 to start on his way to financial independence. VIC FISCHER re­ported that he is still helping the N. "i. Central to pay dividends by enlightening their engineering de­partment. TURK KELLY wants to ask JOE BENDA how to correct a "slice." Turk has visions of being on the next Ryder Cup Team. ED McCORMACK says that his thesis keeps him from corresponding with you, but perhaps this is not so—there is a rumor around the campus that Ed is interested in Barnard College. Myself, I'm fine, and wish that you'd ask NIG EGAN of Brookline, through the column to drop me a line. JACK LAVELLE." 

Local Alumni Clubs 
>OTKE n.\ME CLUB OF .AKBOX, OIDO 
Frank Steel, '25, 543 Stratford Ave., President John Dettling, '21, -IST E. Buchtel Ave., Sec. 
NOTKE D.AME CLVB OF ARKANSAS 
Rev. George F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope, Pres. Warren Baldwin, '13, 2424 Louisiana St., Little JJock, Secretary. 
XOiatE BiOrE CLUB OF BUFFALO 
Jay L. Lee, '12, 1509 Liberty Bank Bldg., Pres, Fred JI. Pralatowski, Dupont-Rayon Co., Sec. 
XOTKE DA5LE CLUB OF BOSTON" 
Hugh Blunt, '24, Barristers Hall, Pemberton Square, President. Dr. James J. Lynch, '15. 270 Commonwealth Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO 
John W. Costello, '12, Room 1101, ISO W. Wash­ington, President. Frank T. Fitzsimmons. '20, 7013 Ridge Ave., Secretarj', 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF C.4LUMET REGION 
Hugh E. Carroll, 'IG, U.S. National Bank Bldg., East Chicago, Ind., President. 
W. R. Dooley, '2G, N. I. Pub. Service Co., Hammond, Secretarj-. 
NOTRE D.\.'\IE CLUB OF CLE%1EL.4ND Eugene Kane, '14. 1462 Lincoln Ave., Pres. Fred Joyce, '19, Asst. JIgr. Allerton Club, Sec. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCEN-NATI 
H. C. McHugh, '09, P. O. Box 429, President. 
L. V. DuBois, o. s. '15. Fredk. Schmidt Co., Fifth and Main Sts., Secretarj". 

NOTRE DA3IE CLUB OF CENTR.4L OHIO Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hosier Realty Bldg., Columbus, President. 
F. X. Finneran, 615 West Chapel St., Columbus, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF THE CONNECTICUT VALLEY William J. Granfiekl, '13, State Bldg., 1200 Jlain St., Springfield, Mass., President. PJames A. Curry, '14, 795 Assylum jVve., Hart­
ford, Conn,, Secretary. 

NOTRE D.4JHE CLUB OF BAITON Joseph B. Murphy, '11, 309-15 JIutual Home Bldg., President. 
J. Farrell Johnston, '24, 49 Shaw Ave., Sec. NOTRE D.4ME CLjB OF DEN^'ER 
J. P. Logan, 3654 Marion St., President. Henry • Schwalbe, Argonaut Hotel, Sec-Treas. NOTRE D.\5IE CLUB OF DETROIT Harry Kelly, '17, 242S First Natl, Blc Bldg., 
President. Charles Jtolz, '24, Detroit News, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\9I£ CLUB OF DES MOINES John W. Newman, '9S-99 3607 IngersoU Ave., President. Earl F. Walsh, Des Moines Cath. Col., Sec. NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUSIBI.^ Dr. J. A. Flynn, El. '12, 1511 R. 1, Ave., N. W., Washington, President. William M. Galvin, '14, Navy League, Wash­ington, Secretary. 
NOTRE DA9IE CLUB OF FOX Rn^ER VALLieV Jolin V. Diener, '09, 735 S. Quincy St., Green 
Bay, President. John Gallagher, o. s., '25, Shawano, Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
This page of advertising is made possible by the generosity of the following membei's and friends of the 


NOTRE DAME CLUB 
of the City of New York 
Club Headquarters William E. Cotter 
22 East 38th Street 
Phil J. Doherty Frank Wallace 
Ambrose O'Connell William A. Daunt 


Peter P. McElligott A 
Attomey-at-Law 


New York Alumnus 
320 West Twenty-third Street 
JOHN T. BALFE 
Personal Insurance 
Life Insurance Trusts Corporation Insurance Inheritance Taxes Underwritten 
Graybar Building NEW YORK CITY 

£ocal Mlumni Club Meetings 
CLEVELAND Mondays—^year round—luncheon meetings—^the Allerton—seventy-five cents. 
NEW YORK CITY Thursdays—Luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 E. 38th St. 
CHICAGO Wednesdays—Luncheon meetings—Elks' Club 
DETROIT Thursdays—Luncheon meetings—^12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Ave. 
PITTSBURGH Thursdays—Luncheon—Hotel Henry. 
LOS ANGELES Weekly lunclicon—^Wednesday, 12:15—University Club. 
CINCINNATI First and third Tuesdays of each month—^12:15 noon—Broadway Hotel 
NEW JERSEY Monthly meeting—8 P. M.—First Monday—Newark Athletic Club 
INTER-MOUNTAIN Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah 
KENTUCKY Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different locations. Call Edward PfeifTer, 407 Martin Brown Arcade, Louisville 
WABASH VALLEY Four times yearly—January, April, October, December—^Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana.—Call H. R. Kamp, 1207 Wells St. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY Monthly dinner meeting—no regular date. Call Paul Castner, Studebaker Corp. South Bend 
DES MOINES Monthly meeting—^no regular date—call Carleton Beh. 
JOLIET Monthly meeting—First Tuesday—Call Edward King, 301 Ruby St., for details. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Monthly luncheon—^First Tuesday—Clift Hotel, San Francisco. 
FORT WAYNE Monthly dinner—^no definite date—call John W. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McBlieman, secretary. 
ROCHESTER First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Commerce Private Dining Room 





