The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
This book is not tt 
'n'^""^''"''"'^™^ 

'32 ! 
"THE MAKCH IS OX" .4 Scene from the Carnegie Tech Game—Lnkutu iS 
1932 


VICTORY 
to the Team! 
E
VERY Notre Dame adherent is familiar witli Hotel McAlpin so many j'^ears privileged to be the Team's host in New York. 
The Management wishes to assure again the Notre Dame contingent of its willing spirit to accommodate more luxuriously, to serve more willingly and to en­tertain more enjoyably everj'^ guest visiting New York for the game. 
McAlpin rates for large, comfortable, immaculate rooms with bath start at 
3 
per 
day 

Please w rite or wire for reservation — to me, personall}'', if you prefer. JOHN J. WOELFLE, 
Manager. 

HOTEL McALPIN 

Broadway at 34th Street 
ii''T/ie Centre of Convenience^'' 

COMMENT 

I've enjoyed sincerely the almost universal moral support that has come with the launching of this year's volume of the ALUMNUS. 
Letters, conversations, reactions in many other fields, convince me that the alumni of Notre Dame realize that the Alumni Association has a definite and valuable part in the life of the individual graduate and of the University. How definite and how valuable involve intangibles that defy adequate translation. 
This presidential year has drawn the attention of our Association's leaders to political fields. They will emerge November S with varying de­grees of success but entirely stimu­lated by the keen conflict that sup­plies the alleged check and balance for good government. Almost every locality finds Notre Dame men, alum­ni of that excellent though uncata­logued college of practical politics on the campus, similarly caught in the swirl of ofiice-seeking, for themselves or for someone else. 
Hence the ALUMNUS these first few months has been content to pur­sue only those sine qua nons of its existence, DUES, LmN G ENDOW­MENT, CLUBS and CLASSES, know­ing that after the tumult and the shouting dies the captains and the kings will come back. 
The Class and Club Secretaries de­serve special mention for the splendid improvement shown in response to appeals from the Alumni Office. It is reflected in the interesting letters in both departments of the magazine. 
That brings up a point for the con­stituency-at-large. No later than this month, several letters from these long suffering media have echoed age-old plaints with fresh vigor concern­ing the psychic powers apparently at­tributed to them, the Class Secretar­ies in particular, by their foUow^ing. A letter to the Class Secretary plus a letter to the ALUMNUS equals Class News. But it takes the first 2 as well as the second to make the re­sulting 4. It seems, from the raps on the local table, that the general run of Classmates are voracious read-
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The magazine is puBlishcd monthly during the scholastic year by the AInmni Association of the- University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the'post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3, 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box SI. Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
ME.MBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, G.S.C, '90 

Honorary President CLARENCE JIANION, '22 
President TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 ­
First Vice-President JAMES E . SANFORD, '15 --­
Second Vice-President 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 

Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 
Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 --­
Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 
Director GEORGE HIGGINS, '32 --­
Director FRANK H. HAYES, '14 . -. 
(ex officio) Director 

ers and sporadic writers. They suffer least valuable point in the two para­from intellectual tapeworm and Spen-graphs above. cerian paralysis. 
Last year and this year, in Frank A former president of the Associa­Hayes and Pat Manion, the Associa­tion told me recently that if I could tion has had presidents who were im­hold on for six more months I should usually situated to do the most good begin to feel faint tremors of return­for the alumni interests. All during ing prosperity. Inasmuch as at pros­Frank Hayes' administration, and to perity's peak the Association enjoyed date during Pat's, they have fought only faint tremors, while the rest of that impossible pall of poverty. The the world shook, I cannot do more live enthusiasms which they brought than smile wanly, and plan only cas­into the Association work have been 
ually on buming-the-mortgage cere­anaesthetized, and it's a wonder they monies Universal Notre Dame Night. 
weren't killed, by the drug of deficit. 
Another former president sent me "It is more blessed to give than to a pamphlet by a Religious Order ask­receive" works both ways. Let me ing for securities which the investor remind you of one of Skippy's friends had given up as hopeless, but which, —"We gives and gives and nothing through the advantages of the larger does we ever get. It's no wonder we organization, the Order might liqui­owes and owes." date to better ends. The logic was good. The idea was excellent. Its 
And now, having become the father 
application to Notre Dame, through of sons in 1929, 1931 and 1932,1 feel 
the Association or through Living that I have done right by Catholic Endowment is something for you to Action, country, and Notre Dame. 
think about. And the continuing interest of So to press, the pawnshop, and the these two former presidents is not the polls. 
' O Notre Dame Thou Beauteous Place — ' 
"The purple air, the misty hills; The meadotvs, green 

with hidden rills; The grove, that screens from curious gaze 
Its sacred medi­tative ivays; The lake beyond, 

its placid eye Blue as the arch of vernal sky; The dome, and chapel S2}ires, that claim Our Lady's favor, with her name; Hoio, like a thought of peace, the whole Takes calm possessio7i of the sold!" 
(ELIZA ALLEN STARR) 



THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XI. NOVEMBER, 1932 No. 2. 
Catholic Collese Alumni Meet N. D. Nov. 20 
Famous Economists of Middle West to Discuss Social Justice in the Economic Crisis; Rev. Joseph IHuss­lein, S.J., Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C, '07, and Rev. B. P. O'Reilly, S.M., Already on Program. 
Sunday, Nov. 20, at Notre Dame, in conjunction with similar meetings throughout the United States, Cath­olic college alumni of the Middle West will meet under the auspices of the North Central District of the Na­tional Catholic Alumni Federation. ' The theme of the one-day conference, held in lieu of the 1932 national con­vention of the Federation, is "Social Justice in the Economic Crisis." Much of the discussion will be based upon the two great encyclicals, Renim Novanim of Leo XIII., and Qiiadrag­
esimo Anno of Pius XI. 
James E. Armstrong, alumni secre­tary at Notre Dame, is vice-president of the Federation, director for the Middle West, and ex-officio chairman of the Nov. 20 conference. 
Rev. Joseph Husslein, S.J., fam­ous Catholic economist and author of a number of recognized books in the field, including a recent volume, The Christian Social Maiiifesto, which treats the two encylicals, will deliver the sermon at the Solemn High Mass which will onen the conference. The Mass will be held at 11 o'clock in Sacred Heart Church on the campus. 
.4 luncheon will be held for the representatives at 1 o'clock in the University Dining Halls. 
At 3 o'clock a round table discus­sion will be held in the auditorium of the College of Law building. Several papers of importance mil be deliv­ered. The Kev. Bernard P. O'Eeilly, S.M., just retired as president of the University of Dayton, will give a paper on The Way Out and the Way Beyond, being a reriew of the book of that name by Rev. Francis J. Kun­necke, S.M., a solution of economic erils which has been presented to a Congressional committee, the nation­al Chamber of Commerce and other economic forces. Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '11, foremost authority on re­ligious contacts with students and pioneer in the field of continuing re­lations with Catholic college alumni, will give a talk in this vital field. Several other topics, not yet beyond the tentative stage, will round out a valuable afternoon. 
At 7 o'clock, in the University 

Dining Halls, a banquet will close the conference. Rev. William A. Bolger, C.S.C, '07, outstanding lecturer an.l debater in the field of economics, for years head of the department of eco­nomics at Notre Dame, and at present 
REV. WM . A . BOLGER, C.S.C, '07 
Champion of Decent Livelihood. 

vice-president of the College of St. Thomas, will give an address, "De­cent Livelihood, Its Content and Moral Basis." 
Another address in the field of so­cial legislation will be delivered, but is still in the tentative stages. One of the most prominent Catholic lay­men in the Jliddle West will give it. 
Through the courtesy and co-opera­tion of the foregoing speakers, the chairman is pleased to state that it is doubtful whether the Catholic col­lege man in this territory has ever had, or will have soon again, an op­portunity for such a tremendous ac­quisition of vital information in a timely and imperative field of Cath­olic thought and action. 
Every alumnus of Notre Dame within traveling distance of the con­ference is not only invited but urged to attend. 
Alumni of every other Catholic college in the District—^De Paul, Loy­ola, St. Procopius, St. Bede's, St. Viator's, Quincy, and Routt Colleges in Illinois; St. Joseph's in Indiana; Columbia, St. Ambrose and Trinity in Iowa; St. Benedict's and St. Mary's in Kansas; St. Mary's in Kentuckv; 
U. of Detroit in Michigan; College of St. Thomas, St. Mary's and St. John's in Minnesota; St. Louis U., Rockhurst and Conception in Missouri; Creigh­ton in Nebraska; U. of Dayton, John Carroll, St. John's and St. Xavier's in Ohio; St. Gregory's in Oklahoma; 
U. of Dallas and St. Edward's in Tex­as; Marquette, St. Norbert's and Campion in Wisconsin — are also urged to avail themselves of the con­centration of the. best Catholic thought on a vital Catholic theme. 
Catholics who have graduated from non-Catholic colleges are even more cordially invited to attend this con­ference. 
Every Catholic College, every Cath­.olic Alumni -Association, and every 
Local Club of a Catholic Alumni As­
sociation, should have an official dele­
gate at this meeting. In addition in­
dividual alumni in any and all of the 
above categories are invited. 
_A registration fee of three dollars will be charged all in attendance, which will include tickets to all of the events of the day, including the Mass, Luncheon, Round Table and Banquet. For those who can attend only the banquet, tickets will be available at two dollars. 
Reserve tickets for yourself and friends at once, please, with James 
E. Armstrong, Box 81, Notre Dame, so that we may plan intelligently here for the accommodation of the events to the best advantage. 
The program, even as it stands, is equivalent to a substantial extension course in the Catholic viewpoint on the social sciences. No thinking alumnus can conscientiously miss it. 
Catholic leadership is in the as­cendancy through the Church's ad­herence to the doctrines of the rights of man as outlined so brilliantly and flawlessly in "Rerum Novarum" and the fortieth anniversary follow-up, "Quadragesimo Anno." Even from outside the Catholic circles come voices tending toward Catholic prin­ciples in the social sciences. It there­fore behooves every Catholic, particu­larly those in whose college-trained minds rests the heritage of natural leadership, with a corresponding obli­gation, to know these principles thor­oughly. 
Several features of interest and entestainment will be added to the formal program. 
38 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS November 1932 
FATHER CARROLL IS BACK FROM IRELAND 
''Ave Maria's" Commentator on the Eucharistic Congress Resumes Teaching at Notre Dame 
Reverend Patrick J. Carroll, C.S.C, of the editorial board of The Arc Maria, and member of the faculty, has just returned to Notre Dame after spending the summer in Ireland. Father Carroll is a native Irishman and he is thoroughly acquainted with the Irish people and their affairs. 
The impi-ession of Father Carroll, as he related them to a Scholastic staff member, were varied and in­teresting. 
The Eucharistic Congress was held 
in Dublin from the twenty-second to 
the twenty-sixth of June in miracle 
days of weather. There were about 
one million from all parts of the 
world in attendance; and the ready 
and unhurried way in which the Free 
State officials and Congress stewards 
handled this multitude was a surprise 
to the world. 
All the outdoor services were held on the "18 acres" of Phoenix Park. A night was set aside for the men who assembled to the number of 150,­000; tivo women's ser\'ices followed and the number present i-eached a to­tal of at least 100,000. Then the chil­dren had their Saturday morning Mass and some 150,000 of them were present. 
The final Mass of the Congress was celebrated in the open air by Arch­bishop Curley, of Baltimore, Sunday, June twenty-sixth at one in the after­noon. People started thronging into Phoenix Park at eight o'clock in the morning, five hours before the ap­pointed hour of the Mass. It is esti­mated that one million were present when the procession to the altar on O'Connell Street Bridge set out. You get an estimate of proportions of this procession if you reflect that it took sixty minutes for one of four units, men marching sixteen abreast, to pass a point of review. 
"The Eucharistic Congress at Dub­lin w»as the greatest week in Ireland's history," said Father Carroll. "There was a minimum of oratory and a maximum of devotion; the daily communicants were beyond any ac­tual counting. The number of people present went far abo\'e the attend­ance at all previous Congresses, even that of Chicago. Accommodations for visitors in hotels and private homes were looked to and well man­aged. Dublin was vigilant and un­forgetably gracious." 
While in Ireland Father Carroll visited both President De Valera and 
REV. PATRICK J. CARROLL, C.S.C. 
He tvas ut liome. 

former President Cosgi-ove. When questioned as to how conditions stood between these two men Father Car­roll stated, "There is very little op­position between the two men except difference of a political character. Both very likely are a thousand times better than their political enemies are ready to believe. Mr. De Valera is not a wild dreamer suppoi'ted by rough-and-tumble elements; and Mr. Cosgrove has not sold Ireland back again to Great Britain. Notre Dame students would be edified at the devo­tion sho\\-n at the religious services by President De Valera and former President Cosgrove and their respec­tive cabinets. There was no apology in their attitude, and one could see from their religious exterior that they were Catholics without concession or apology." 
Kilmainhan jail, where the sixteen men, who took part in the Easter re­bellion were executed, was also visited by Father Carroll. "Kilmainhan is the most depressing prison one will encounter in modern times. It is being dismantled, fortunately," said Father Carroll. "The cells in which the sixteen Easter martyrs were imprisoned, and the wall in the courtyard before w^hich they stood when they were shot, can be seen. The whole place is filled with tragic memories. Kilmainhan was designed not only to wall in men's bodies, but to crush hope out of their souls." The graves of sixteen are pointed out on Arbor Hill, where they were buried after being stolen to the Hill at night by the British. At present the spot is transformed into a shrine. 
Father Carroll was fortunate in seeing some of the relatives of the sixteen men who gave up their lives the May following Easter week. He ^isited St. Edna's school at Kath­famum where Pearse's sister carries on his work of teaching. Michael Mallon's father lives shortly outside Kilmainhan jail. He is an old man of, perhaps, seventy years, and lives in a little house close to the street. The picture of his son Michael hangs from the waU just in front of where he sits. Michael was a workman and in his free time was a member of one of Dublin's musical organizations. 
"Mike," Mr. Mallon said, "was not afraid to die for Ireland." And he produced a letter to prove that Michael was not. "I am not afraid ot go," he wrote, just three hours before he was shot. "We have failed now, but others will carry on and finish what we began." 
The authorities at Kilmainhan jail sent a lorry to take Michael's mother to the jail to see him before he was shot. "I will walk to see him," she said to the lon-y captain. And she walked, and bade him grod-bye, a shoi-t time before the boy was led out to be executed. 
"My wife was a Presbyterian," Mr. Mallon said quietly, "but she came into the Faith before she died. Mick got that for her when he went to Heaven." 
I asked Father Carroll if he had anything else to tell. "Oh yes, of course," he replied, "I could tell you of the young wife of Joseph Mary Plunkett, who married the night he was shot, and lives with her memo­ries; Kevin Bari-y's mother and t\vo sisters, (Kevin Barry was hanged in the twenties after he had been cap­tured in ambush) who are very proud of young Kevin who still lies buried in Mount Joy Prison yard, with a crucifix placed upon his grave; and many others who remain in Dublin. They are a tradition coming out of the days w»hen Dublin was in the 
November 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
throes of a war against the ancient foe to win the ancient national right of self-expression. By contrast the Dublin following the great ceremonies of the Congress was exceedingly peaceful and restful." 
"But we had better stop here. Per­haps some of our friends will say we should not have begun at all. Ah, well." 
Taken From Life 

The Alumni Office isn't the voice to counsel hanging on to your Class jewelry. There are times and places when it is difficult to be both conserv­ative and ardent. 
But among the innumerable duties of the Alumni Office arises occa­sionally that of tracing lost jewelry. 
The latest incident is interesting. A man wrote that a piece of Notre Dame jewelry bearing initials and the Class numeral had been found several years ago and he was seek­ing its o\vner. Putting initials, year and city together, the Office wrote a former manager of football who filled the requirements. A letter tells the story. 
The pin was lost by the wife of the alumnus, five years ago. Hope had been abandoned of recovering it. Then came the letter and the identifi­cation. The pin had been found by a boy in the city in question. He had refused his mother's request to search for the owner. Finally he left home and his sister acquired the pin, like­wise refusing the mother's urgent plea to seek its rightful owner. Fi­nally the daughter left home and on a blouse which she sent back came the pin. The mother immediately turned it over to a friend of the fam­ily who wrote to Notre Dame for in­formation about the owner with the above happy ending. 
Which reminds the Alumni Secre­tary of three dollars spent several summers ago in redeeming a Class pin from its finder, a troubled col­ored lad, who had spirited it away from a girl friend after it had been gracing the darker circles of the city for a month. 
And life goes on, in the Alumni Office. 

Lloyd is New Comptroller 

Mr. Frank W. Lloyd has succeeded Mr. Clifford Collins as the Comptrol­ler of the University. Mr. Lloyd was formerly vice-president of the Com­mercial Investment Trust of New York which engaged in investment banking. 
Mr. Lloyd is married, has two daughters, and resides in South Bend. His brother is the president of the South Bend Insurance Company. 


JOSEPH SCOTT SPEAKS TO STUDENT BODY 
Famous California Barrister, Father of Tfiree N. D. Alumni, Nominator of FHoover, Visits Campus 
Sunday evening, Oct. 23, an enthus­iastic Washington Hal l audience heard an address given by the Honor­able Joseph Scott of California, Laetare medallist in 1919, knighted 
HONORABLE JOSEPH SCOTT 
Father of Three N. D. Men. 

with the Order of St. Gregory by Pope Benedict XV. in 1920. Mr. Scott is one of the most prominent Catholic laymen in the United States. He was 
Prof. Eugene O'Connell Dies 
Eugene O'Connell, a student at Notre Dame 1913-15, varsity debater in his freshman year, for the last five years a professor of physics at the University, died Sunday, Oct. 30, aft­er a heart attack, suffered at a politi­cal meeting the preceding Friday. Prof. O'Connell had used his forensic ability and a talent for retentive reading amounting to genius in the cause of the Democratic party. 
He is survived by a wife and four children, the oldest four, the youngest twins 15 months, who reside at 813 Angelia Ave. 
Short funeral services were con­

ducted at the home by Bev. Edward 
Finnegan, C.S.C, and the body was 
sent to Fort Wayne, where Prof. 
O'Connell was bom, for burial from 
the Cathedral there on Nov. 2. 
Pallbearers included Hon. Samuel 

B. Pettengill, Professor Daniel Hull, Professor John M. Cooney, Robert 
H. McAuIiffe, Professor Jose Caparo and Professor H. B. Froning. 
introduced simply, as one who needed no introduction, by Reverend Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University. 
White-haired, bushy-browed speaker Scott delighted his audience with the dynamic, inspirational qualities of his address. He spoke of Catholic leader­ship that Catholic young men must assume in a world that is tending to­ward agnosticism. He urged his lis­teners to take away with them from Notre Dame a firm background in Catholic philosophy and the kind of faith that comes from many morn­ings at the Communion rail. He spoke briefly of Louis Pasteur, a great scientist with the simple faith of a Breton peasant, as opposed to the rank and file of would-be scien­tists who deride the idea of God. 
Not wholly serious was Mr. Scott's speech. He told many stories, nearly always with himself at the butt, that brought forth shouts of laughter. The audience was particularly pleased with the speaker's sly references to Father John Cavanaugh, in the audi­ence, as "my young friend, Father Cavanaugh." 
A significant figure in national af­fairs and a militant Catholic, Mr. Scott is one of the most accomplished speakers ever listened to in Washing­ton Hall. 

Keogan To Wed 

As Germany of some years back awaited "Der Tag," the many friends of George Keogan hail with more than usual enthusiasm the following clipping, showing what happens to the immovable object when the irres­istible force arrives: 
George Keogan, head basketball and baseball coach at Notre Dame, will be married Thanksgiving day to Miss Ruby Jones of 1034 Lincoln Way East, Mishawaka. 
Mr. Keogan has been a coach at Notre Dame since 1922, coming here from Valparaiso university at Valpa­raiso, Ind. 
Miss Jones is the daughter of Sirs. Sarah Jones, of Muncie, Ind., and has been a teacher in the Mishawaka South Side school. She is a graduate of the Indiana State Normal school in Muncie. 
Mr. Keogan resides at the Mar-Main arms. 
THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS November 1932 
Some of us who are past sixty will doubtless go on believing that "The James Boys" would have been a bet­ter title than The Three Jameses, by 
C. Hartley Grattan. It deals with the work of William James, who (accord­ing to a musty jibe) wrote philosophy as if it were fiction, Henry James, who wrote fiction as if it were phil­osophy, and their father, Henry James, Senior, who wrote about both philosophy and theology with a journ­alism flavor. (Longmans, ?3.50). 
Miss Willa Gather has just pub­
lished a group of short stories en­
titled Obscure Destiiiies." Acceptable 
on its "own merits," the book will be 
helped along by her earlier works. 
Shadows on the Rock and especially 
Death Comes to the Archbishop. In­
cidentally the Archbishop in this title 
was the holy John Lamy Vicar-Apos­
tolic, (later Archbishop) of Santa Fe 
and the Father Joseph of the story 
was the priest who subsequently be­
came Bishop Machebeuf of Denver. I 
have before me as I write the original 
manuscript of a letter from Arch­
bishop Lamy to our founder. Father 
Sorin, discussing some of the sad con­
ditions mentioned in Miss Gather's 
book and asking Father Sorin to send 
him some of "the priests of your so­ciety of which I have heard so much good." In the second sentence of that letter he refers to "my vicar-general. Father Machebeuf, who knows you intimately." Both these interesting clerics had been missionaries for many years in Ohio and both were well known on our campus. Bishop Machebeuf especially had a friendly way of dropping in often for a visit and addressing the students in gen­eral assembly. Miss Gather seems to delight in ecclesiastical portraits. The very unusual Bishop who figures in Shadows on the Rock was the great Monsigneur Laval, of Quebec, for whom the famous Canadian univer­sity was named. 
Keep your eyes peeled for any book bearing the name of Owen Francis Dudley, convert and priest, whose Masterftil Monk is one of the firm­est bits of fiction in a decade. He knows the modem world, its ways, its words and its works, and he deals with it after the manner of a flash­ing frantic cinema rather than a re­ligious disquisition. A perfect example of the distinctly superior type of Rob­ert Ellsmere problem novel. Father Dudley's latest book is a pageant of life and if yon are still financially competent, I advise you to add this work and The Masterful Monk to your library. (Longmans, $2). 


BOOK AND INGLENOOK 
Thinss Old And New 
We offer this little thing tenta­tively to keep old fellows ivho still rcdd, in touch with library i7ifluences 
of  the  campus.  Tell  us  ivhehtcr  you  
like  it  and  make  suggestions  for  
improvement.  

"Chester-Belloc" Books 

In "Chester Belloc" books the text is from the pen of Belloc and the illus­trations from the pencil of Chester­ton—everybody knows that Chesterton, the youth, started out to be an artist. The latest book of the series is Post-Master General. The text is quite as thrilling as the old Brooks' Arith­metic, or Harvey's Grammar of our childhood, but is saved by the whim­sicality of Chesterton's thirty impish illustrations. Incidentally, Chester­ton's latest book is Chaucer, a collec­tion of characteristically piquant, pungent and pleasant essays on the great poet from a pen marvelous here as everj^vhere else. 
Some excellent Scotch! 1 learn authentically that one-fourth of the population of Scotland's four largest cities — Glasgow, Edinburgh, Dundee and Aberdeen—is Catholic. If this growth keeps up, there will no longer be any point to the famous saying of Doctor Samuel Johnson that "a merci­ful Providence gave the Scotch an extra good quality of liquor to make up for their beastly theology!" The Scotch theeology, you remember, spe­cialized in Infant Damnation. Harrj-Lauder has written a book called "Wee Drappies" ('fl'ibernice Wee Drops)—not a dry book in any sense but made doubly stimulating by the bookmark, a green ribbon at the end of which dangles a tiny bottle, one side of which is marked "Scotch" and the other "Made in Germany!" Be­sides thirst the other Scotch gift is humor, not too generously offered here however as becomes a Scotch gift. Some readers will hope that his 
next book may be "Lauder and Fun­nier."—^Robert Bums in daily life a sentimentalist, in philosophy a hedon­ist, in poetry an anthropomorphist and in theology a deist, is the subject of a comprehensive, conscientious biography by Franklin Snyder. Take him by and large, Bums is not a Catholic — certainly not a modern Catholic—taste. While in no sense disputing with Washington the title "Father of His Country," he out­rivaled the uxorious DeWolf Hopper in the role of "Husband of His Coun­try." The notorious atheist, Robert IngersoU, made a hit with a popular lecture on the Scotch poet. When IngersoU died some wit obser\-ed that a proper epitaph for the blasphemer's own tombstone would be the title of that lecture: "Robert Burns." 
A seasonable Side-Line 0' Type or Two: Francis Wallace has found his stride on the field of football fiction! in 1930 he gave us Huddle, since transmuted into a very popular movie with the scene transported to another campus. In 1931 came "Stadium," a thundering thesis against racketeer­ing in football. In 1932 O'Reilly of Notre Dame." Without waiting for 1933 to arrive actually, Frank gives us his latest and best annual football story, That's My Boy! Frank is so desperately realistic as to hand out romance and torrid excitement (as life does) in homeopathic doses. But he may bide the longer for that (Farrar, Einehart, §2).—Kicking the American Football is a highly ani­mated text on the subject by Leroy N. Mills; high school coach of Frank Carideo. Frank contributes an en­
thusiastic introduction and many fine photographs. N_ j)_ ^nj K, K. E. skimpily present. Excellent for the high school heroes! I get a pedal per-• cussion out of it myself. (Putnam, $2.50)—Showing both knowledge of his subject and experience in book­making, in some ways prominent among all the books written about Eockne, is Salesman from the Side­lines, by McCready Huston, formerly editorial writer for the South Bend Neivs Times and frequent lecturer at Notre Dame's School of Journalism. At least since the death of Mr. Roekne, the author had been haunted by the thought of this book, to treat a side of the great coach hitherto neglected. In 235 pages of interest­ing text and attractive writing, Mr. Huston's thesis is posed and proved. A most interesting book even though the matter is neither cryptic nor apocalyptic to those who knew Roekne. (Macmillan, §2.50). 
November 1SJ2 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
Some great biographies have ap­peared during the last three months. Hot from the press is Graver Cleve­land, by Allen Nevins, well known political student and writer. Cleve­land is one of the six greatest presi­dents we have ever had. He was a self-made scholar; better still, he was an absolutely honest man. With eith­er Cleveland or Theodore Roosevelt or Alfred E. Smith in the president's chair, I believe the economic prostra­tion of the world would have been foreseen and prevented. That it actually was foreseen by Mr. Cool­idge, for example, is my interpreta­tion of the words "I do not choose to run."—God's Gold is another aspect of the story of John D. Rockefeller; it comes from John T. Flynn, no prentice hand. Ida Tarbell set fire to Standard Oil in her famous biography and almost made a burnt ofTering of 
John D. Sir. Flynn does something to cast oil on troubled waters for though God's Gold is no canonization bull, it is a better study of motives and a more faithful portrait of char­acteristics than the Tarbell book. It is years since I have read more pun­gent words than on page 394 and fol­lowing pages of this book. Mr. Flynn burns up other churches completely and he chars ourselves so hotly that I wish every member of the Church, from the lowliest to the loftiest, could be persuaded to meditate his rather exaggerated words. I am a mere rec­order here, not a reforming partisan. Yet I know that many people are say­ing the same things. (Harcourt, Brace, $3.50) 
And has anyone perchance missed the remarkable things the woman, Sigrid Undset, of Norway, has been doing for the last five years? She is daughter to an archeologist of great repute, and she constructs an­cient periods of time with photo­graphic interest and minuteness. First came three volumes under the general title, Kristin Lavransdatter. From beginning to end it was a prose epic of Viking quality. The world canonized it. Christian folk were di­vided; one-half said it was heroically strong and the other half that it was in spots unnecessarily rank. But no one denied it was great creative work. Sigrid Undset, a convert, is plainly a Catholic Zola in moments, but perhaps something of her quality is necessary to produce a very great literature. Sodality manuals are ex­cellent for their purpose but they never make literature. Her second epic adventure was The Master of Hestviken, four long volumes of dead-in-earnest problem stuff. The Wild Orchid—the title symbolizes mere 
human love—was a story of modem 
Norway, almost equally strong, al­most equally rank. Her latest vol­ume. The Burning Bush,—this title symbolizes divine love—is a sequel to The Wild Orchid, but may be read separately without suffering. The in­teresting thing about all of this is that it is plain as a pipe that Sigrid Undset has the highest motive and works in a spirit of genuine consecra­tion even though sometimes you feel like holding your nose. No convent reading, Sigrid's stuff! As you might suspect,- Knopf is the publisher. ($2.50.) 
AVE MARIA booknotes become wiser and spicier each week. How is this for spunk? "When Clifford Bax, a British writer, declared in his re­cent biography of Leonardo da Vinci, published by the Appleton Co., that a mediocre engineer is a more advanced type than the best poet or painter, he was stating a fact about Clifford Bax rather than about poets and painters. It was John Boyle O'Reilly who said, 'The Dreamer lives forever, but the Toiler dies in a day,' and that, we be­lieve, has always been the common verdict of mankind. It is the ideals of a race expressed in the literature of a country that endure, not the ma­terial monuments and buildings that are fashioned in bronze and stone. Romeo and Juliet are dream charac­ters from the mind of Shakespeare, yet they have endured for more than three centuries, and they will con­tinue to live on when all the bridges and buildings and tombs of Shakes­peare's time have crumbled into dust. It is well said of a vanished race, 'They had no poet, and they died.' Readers will question the fitness of an author to write a biography of Leon­ardo de Vinci who believes that an engineer is superior in type to an artist." And yet every pope and bish­op calls himself a pontiff—and pon­tifex means a bridge-builder! 
Faith and Youth by Doctor Burton Confrey, professor for a decade on the campus, lays down a thesis that the teaching of religion and the teach­ing of English composition can be in­terestingly combined in a way advan­tageous to both. The author makes excellent use of our wonderful Father O'Hara and certain other campus fig­ures. Though I say it who shouldn't, it's a very unusual and stimulating book for High School and especially college teachers. 
Thomas Walsh (LL.D. '17), fine poet and unparalleled translator from the Spanish, assembled The Catholic Anthology a short time before his sudden and lamented death. Others than Catholic writers are represented in it, bat the spirit and the subject are of the faith. George N. Shus­ter, '15, managing editor of The Com­monioeal, published a revised edition of the work with additional poems. The campus of the past is fairly well represented but of present day men only. Professor Norbcrt Engds and Father Charles O'Donnell are here. And fancy only one poem from Boyle O'Reilly! 
Edward J. O'Brien, accepted by many as literary dictator, publishes each year a volume of Best Stories. O'Brien is a Bostonian expatriated to Oxford and Switzerland and is a ver­satile editor of all sorts of people and publications. In his Best Short Stories for 1932, the lone representative of college magazines is Louis Brennan's Poisoner in Motley. In 1930 Brennan was editor of the literary quarterly of the campus. Scrip, now in its fourth year. O'Brien has often crowned N. D. men. He lists Scrip among the best 30 magazines in Eng­lish printing short stories, placing it above Atnerican Mercury and The At­lantic Monthly. 
The campus and the ^vide-spreading alumni to a man are with The Brook­lyn Tablet, Oct. 15th, this year: 
"Father O'Hara, C.S.C, who edits the daily religious bulletin at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame has a world­wide reputation. During the past scholastic year we frequently quoted from the messages which put across the religious truths in the most at­tractive language. Father O'Hara would be a successful columnist on any paper." 
The Tablet quotes a scintillant specimen of Father O'Hara's writing: "Is the depression giving American culture a setback? We hope so. We hope to see it set so far back that it will find itself on the main line again. As B^o^vnson once said, 'Everyone knows that the great poets, the great artists, have never flourished, save in epochs and countries marked by severe discipline, and ennobled by serious and solid studies.' Our coimtry has been marked by severe dissipation instead of severe disci­pline; perhaps the depression will bring back the severe mental disci­pline that will foster serious study along correct lines. The deflation of Materialism is full of blessings for . the spirit." One efficient way of keep­ing in touch with campus culture is to send a letter or postcard to Father O'Hara asking him to send you with the compliments of the school his daily Bulletin. 
.THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November 19S3 


FOUNDER'S DAY CELEBRATED AT NOTRE DAME ON OCTOBER THE THIRTEENTH 
New Secretary of U. 

Mr. Kenneth Oliver, new secretary in the administrative division of the University, only became actively as­sociated with Notre Dame at the be­ginning of the 1932-33 scholastic year, but for many years before that he had been in contact with the school through his friendship with the late Most Reverend George J. Finnigan, CS.C, Bishop of Helena, Montana. 
Mr. Oliver, who succeeded Mrs. Mary Beyer as secretary, was former­ly with the export division of the Studebaker corporation in South Bend. 
The affairs which come under tlie supervision of his office are those which pertain to the keeping of stu­dent accounts. An individual record must be kept for each student, giv­ing the amount due, the amount paid for tuition, board, room, fees, and laundry. "The record of those stu­dents who are employed by the Uni­versity must also be kept carefully up to date. This latter detail is done through co-operation with the office of the vice-president, who has charge of student employment. 
Mr. Oliver reports that he likes the work here at the University, and that it is proving to be very interesting. There is constant contact with stu­dents, and faculty, so dull moments are seldom to be found in his office. 
The dirision of University admin­istration which Mr. Oliver manages forms a connecting link between the students and the offices of the regis­trar, treasurer, general accounting, and athletics. 
In the division of the Secretary's office, there are four assistants who aid Mr. Oliver in the duties attached to it. All records must be kept so that a student's financial status may be instantly ascertained. The equip­ment of the office is very neat, and is kept strictly in order at all times. 
Sir. Oliver is a native of Eau Claire, Wisconsin. He served with the United States forces during the world war for two years. 
"29er" Defends N. D. You can always depend upon Notre Dame men in a pinch. The trouble is that now, with drapes at the win­dows, silver platters in the beamed and panelled dining halls, extension telephones to the upper hall floors, etc., the boys haven't been pinched of late. Hence the Pittsburgh game up­set the digestive functioning of a large number, and, as Dr. Cooney is wont to point out, that finds its way to the tongue. So it was reassuring to read a Bulletin from "29er" in the Halls, setting the situation in a more rational light. 
Founder's Day, one of Notre Dame's most cherished traditions, is annually obser\-ed on St. Edward's Feast day, Oct. 13, in honor of the patron saint day of the Very Rever­end Sorin, CS.C, Founder and first president of the University. 
Before the death of Father Sorin about 40 years ago, the feast of St. Edward was observed at the Univer­sity with elaborate celebration. On down through the years the feast day, less a reality, has become more and more a memory. Notre Dame stud­ents gather each year on this day and offer their Communion to the sacred memory of the founder of their school. 
The history of Founder's Day as recorded in the yellowed files of for­mer years is highly interesting. On Oct. 14, 1871 the following was pub­lished: "Last week we anticipated the brilliant festivities held in honor of the Very Reverend Edward Sorin. But the national calamity which so unexpectedly fell upon us—^the de­struction by fire of more than half of the great city of Chicago—has taken away the interest which the students feel in the recurrence of this festival. Sympathy with the sufferers has induced Father Sorin to refuse any demonstrations in his honor." 
Some twenty years later, the fol­lowing is found in a page of The Scholastic: "Washington Hall pre­sented a very lively appearance on the eve of the feast of St. Edward, Oct. 13, when the faculty, students, and visitors from abroad assembled to tender the Venerable Father-Gen­eral Sorin, founder of Notre Dame, on the occasion ef his patronal festitv'al. Solemn high mass was celebrated by the Very Rev. Provincial Corby and assistants." 
From the issue of Oct. 14, 1893: "The name day of our venerable founder of Notre Dame—occasion of general rejoicing of our little college world." 
On 'Nov. 11, 1893, a Scholastic edged in black made its appearance. Father Sorin had died. 
Down through the history of Notre Dame Founder's Day, fitting cere­monies have marked the celebration Oct. 13 in Sacred Heart Church a solemn high Mass was celebrated with the Reevrend P. H. Dolan, CS.C, as celebrant. Reverend Patrick Hagger­ty, CS.C, deacon. Reverend Raymond 
J. Clancy, CS.C., sub-deacon, and Reverend Francis J. Wenninger, CS.C, master of ceremonies. 
In a sermon appropriate for the occasion, the Reverend J. Leonard Carrico, CS.C, recounted some of the hardships and tribulations encoun­tered and overcome by Father Sorin and the six Brothers who were his associates in founding Notre Dame. 
REV. EDWARD SORIN, CS.C. 
A Desert Has Bloomed. 

On August 8, 1841, these seven valiant men responded to the call of the Bishop of Vincennes and came as missionaries to this spot then a wil­derness. In November, 1842, they arrived at what was to be Notre Dame with high hearts and a total capital of $400 to found a college and novitiate. 
During all the early history of the school, the pinch of poverty was ever present. Once the total capital of the Community amounted to fifty cents. At another time the horses were sold at auction to satisfy the creditors. Again, a day came when there was no food for either students or professors. In addition, the more enthusiastic anti-Catholics of the vicinity threatened and even planned to bum the few buildings on the campus. 
In 1854 the cholera plague raged for two months and took a heavy toll. In 1879 a heavy fire destroyed the 
labors of forty years. 
In spite of all, Notre Dame has grown and prospered, and the reasons for this success. Father Carrico as­serted, were the two paramount char­actertistics of Father Sorin, his in^TOcible faith in God and his intense devotion to the Mother of God. In all, he was but an ordinary man who did an extraordinary work. 
Bob Proctor Campaigning 
Robert Proctor, '04, prominent ora­tor and former state senator from Elkhart, is campaigning in the final stages of the race, in Indiana, Illinois and Michigan for Franklin D. Roose­velt. Bob is one of the oldest Roose­velt boosters in this territory. 
November 13-9S THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
$200,000 Student Aid 
Notre Dame students are not as fortunate in the rich endowment of their Alma Mater as many of their educational confreres, nor are exist­ing scholarships at the University particularly generous in number or amount, as educational costs and contemporary comparisons go. But there are few places in which the student gets more real, deserved as­sistance along the academic highway than at Notre Dame. 
The answer is jobs. 
The University Dining Halls, offer­
ing work to 250 boys—ten per cent 
of the lay resident enrollment—leads 
the sources of work. Over the re­
maining campus are scattered secre­
taries to professors, assistants in the 
library, advertising solicitors for the 
publications, workers in the equip­
ment rooms, managers for athletics, 
and the hundred unclassified but es­
sential jobs of detail that round out 
a going campus. 
Other boys have ferreted out jobs down town—and these are almost im­possible now with even the part time city work going to men with de­pendents. Still others represent var­ious concerns on the campus—insur­ance, clothing, jewelry, post cards, stationery, etc. The returns range from the "doUar-a-year" basis up to very substantial dents in the annual expenses. 
The argument is advanced that the employment of students is a purely commercial proposition with the Uni­versity, for which little credit is due. Those familiar with the part-time employment of students do not sub­scribe to this theory. In fact, it is commonly agreed that almost any job can be handled better, and at a saving by professional help. In some departments, noticeably the Univer­sity's general offices, it has been found necessary to secure full time help. A number of graduate students have returned this year and are oc-' cupying many part-time jobs while continuing their studies. The steady increase of jobs for undergraduates, however, has more than balanced this replacement. It is estimated that a majority of the 3,000 students at the University earn varying parts of their way during the scholastic year. 
Rev. M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, 'IT, vice-president of the University, is in charge of the placing of students in these campus jobs. 
Tommy Mills Resigns 
Tommy Mills, former assistant to Knute Rockne, and his staff of coach­es at Georgetown university, Wash­ington, have resigned in mid-season as the result of adverse criticism for the Georgetown team. Rock considered Tom one of the best coaches in the profession and brought him to N. D. from Beloit. 



'SCHOLASTIC" REPRESENTS SIXTV-FIVE YEARS OF CONTINUOUS EXISTENCE 
The Scholastic had its beginning 65 years ago; 1867 to be exact. 
The earliest formal publication con­taining selections from the writings of students, was called Progress. It 
An Earlji Headline. 
was a manuscript paper, written in elegant penmanship, and circulated only among the more appreciative lit­erary denizens of the University. This was so well received, that the faculty appointed a certain evening every two weeks in which the Progress would be read to the students in the Senior study hall. This was always looked forward to as the finest treat imaginable. The Progress was fol­lowed by publications with such amaz­ing appeiatives as Olympic Gazette, Weekly Bee, and Literary Gazette. 

Shortly after the war, (yes, the Civil War) a great intellectual era had set in, and college life had settled down to thoughts of literature, arts and science. It was at that time that the present magazine made its debut, with the hearty approval of Father Corby, the president. At this time it was called the Scholastic Year, the idea being that it would be published only during the school year. Two years later its name was changed to the Notre Dame Scholastic, and since then it has had continuous exist-
As all great magazines, it had its humble beginning. There was no staff of thoroughly competent news, sports, and literary writers. In fact, it was little more than the fly-leaf of The Ave Maria, to which it was at­tached. It was published by a half-dozen young aspirants to literary fame, and was intended chiefly as a literary medium for the wTitings of students. 
Sixty-five years have rolled by, and today The Scholastic has acquired tradition. It hopes to justify the ideals and aspirations of those Notre Dame men of '67. An alert and able staff of some 50 students now bring not only the literary achievements of the campus to the foreground, but present a full kaleidoscope of Notre Dame life. 
Editors of the Scholastic, as they have led the editorial boards where those elusive names appeared, have been, for the past 50 years: 
1882-3 George Clarke 1883-4 T. Ewing Steele 1884-5 N. H. Ewing 1885-6 Frank H. Dexter 1886-7 B. T. Becker 1887-8 J. H. Craig 1888-9 Not listed 1889-0 Rev. John W. Cavanangh. 18£0-1 Not listed 1891-2 Hugh O'NeiU 1892-3 Frederick Chute 1893-4 E. F. DuBrul 1894-5 James McKee 1895-6 Daniel V. Casey 1896-7 Joseph A. Harmon 1897-8 Ehner J. Murphy 1898-9 Paul J. Ragan 1899-1900 Paul J. Ragan 1900-1 Anthony J. Brogan 1901-2 Joseph J. Sullivan 1902-3 Joseph J. Sullivan 1902-3 Patrick MacDonough 1903-4 Patrick MacDonough 1904-5 Thomas D. Lyons 1905-6 Stephen Riordan 1906-7 Edward F. O'Flynn 1907-8 Edward F. O'Flynn 1908-9 Ignatius McNamee 1909-0 Otto Schmid 1910-11 Rev. Thomas Lahey 1911-12 John P. Murphy 1912-13 Simon Twining 1913-14 Wm. M. Galvin 1914-15 Arthur Hayes 1915-16 T. P. Gaivin 1916-17 Howard R. Parker 1917-18 Delmar J. Edmondson 1918-19 Thomas F. Healy 1919-20 Rev. T. J. Tobin 1920-21 Alfred N. Slaggert 1921-22 Robert D. Shea 1922-23 Rev. Leo R. Ward 1923-24 The Scribblers 1924-25 John W. Scallan 1925-26-William R. Dooley 
1926-27 Joseph Breig 1927-28 John Mullen 1928-29 John Hinkel 1929-30 Murray Hickey Ley j 
1930-31 Emil Telfel 1931-32 Neil Hurley 1932-33 Ed Stenhan 






Notre Dame's "Who's Who'' 
J OH N F. O'CONNELL, LL.B., 'I3, national director of the ^^^^^^m^j^^s:xi.r~r.-^ .. . •-Alumni AssociatioUj was, for some time the youngest judge on Chi­*^^^l v^^^i cago's municipal bench. John brings to the Association two terms as a 
^^^^^^•w..^-'*?^WS*i..-^-; . 
^^^^^mSf':'i-*--^'l^,^^e^. •.'.•-vice-president when the Association was young, '14 and '15. John was assistant manager of athletics, and took from it, and his law classes, that smoothness and poise that seems to carry alumni so experienced consistently ahead. John is serving his third year on the Alumni Board 

Hf^pPi 
and has always an active and constructive viewnoint on the affairs of the Association. The municipal court of Chicago gives little time to its 
judge, but Notre Dame is sure of a share of whatever time John man­ages to squeeze. 
•ps^ 
J^g^^^Sk^'A 
^^^^^^^'^'i^^^^ll^HI) ^^^1 
I^^^^^H^-'^'' * ^^H 
# 
^^^^VF ^^^^^ '-''^ ^'^^E^^^^^^l 
JOHN F . O'COXNELL 


n^''-:tex'''"^L^^^I 
CTg^g^^^^^CAaBj^^^^^^^^^^M 

CHESTER D. FREEZE , 'lO puts into the Freeze-Vogel ad­



y^^^^v^^^^i 
Kgfc^Mg^"*'^: •^^':S^^^-*3S^^^^^^^

vertising agency in Milwaukee, all of the energy and aggressiveness that made him All-State guard on the N. D. basketball team of 1909-10 which he captained. Starting a year late with the Class, Chet Freeze, with his all-round athletic abilitj^—baseball, football and track—and an attractive personality, was soon one of the prominent members of the Class. Chet has also put his dynamic shoulder to the wheels of the 
N. D. Alumni Association and the N. D. Club of Milwaukee. No wonder Father Mike Moriarty, oracle of the Class of '10, asks for him in the current Class column. 
# 
CHESTER D . FREEZE 

M. HAROLD MILLER. As though to assuage Father Mor­iarity further, the genial M. Harold Miller, also of 1910, better known as Harry or "Red" and sung and storied in the Potters and in Rev. Matthew Walsh's stories of the Michigan Goal Post, was slated for this space. Harry retired from the Alumni Board in June after four highly constructive and conscientious years of participation in the government of the alumni affairs. He is active in Cleveland. His work as counsel for the Grasselli Chemical Co. keeps his contacts farther East. Former football captain and "dean" of the famous Five Jlillers, Harry is still the same genial, yet sincere fellow, who wound up his four years at Notre Dame with four football monograms, a K. of C. membership, and membership in the Shakespearean Society and the Knights of Bacchus. 
M. HAREY MILLER 

Religious Page John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. 
Prefect of Religion 

All believers in Catholic education, and more particularly those who have borne the brunt of the battle for its establishment in this country—^wheth­er as teachers or as students in schools which were once unpopular—will ex­ult in the trend of serious thought to­wards the position the Catholic Church has maintained against heavy odds. The alumni should be interested in studying some of the signs of the times in this field of thought. 
The ^ve Maria has done us the service of resurrecting a commence­ment address delivered at Yale ten years ago by George Wharton Pepper, then United States Senator from Pennsylvania, in which occurs the fol­lowing significant paragraph: 
"I am profoundly convinced that the time is not far distant when all men who think at all and who possess the faculty of reasoning clearly and logically, will understand that the highest use to which the human mind can devote inself is the contemplation of God and His relations to man and the physical uni­verse : and that when that time comes I am certain that a hymn of thanksgiving will well up from the heart of America to the Catholic Church which, through misrepresentation and calumny and slander, and in spite of the most powerful opposition, has always held that great ideal before the minds of the people; has always made God and His Christ the basis and foundation of education." 
How close to realization is this prophecy of Senator Pepper? While the Church has not yet received full recognition for her stand, at least there is a wide expression of alarm over the fruits of education without God. Sometimes the fact that it is without God is not recognized," as in the case with the warden of Sing Sing. In a recent article in Good Housekeep­ing he declares in substance that the public schools of this country, in their century of existence, have practically eliminated illiteracy, but haven't trained one ounce of character—^but the remedy he proposes is not a re­turn to God, but the extension of su­pervised recreation. 
The President of Butler University, Dr. Atheam, ha\nng a ministetrial background, might be expected to have more spiritual insight than a prison warden, and his recent book, "The Minister and the Teacher," justifies this assumption. In it he says, among other things: 
The American Protestant Church should be convicted of the fe-rful sin nf smritn.il neg­lect of children and youth. A church which cannot save its own children can never save the \vorId. .. . 
Little has been done in the science and art of teaching honesty, truthfulness, industry, personal^ parity and other virtues essential to the stability of our social structure. As a re-

THE TREND 
suit, while general illiteracy has decreased, spiritual illiteracy has increased. 
We h.ave wealth, power, intelligence, but we have not implanted in our citizenship the power to control wealth and scientific discov­eries in harmony with those great ideals which guarantee the happiness and welfare of people. Hence the crime wave. 
What is the way out? It is now becoming increasing clear that society must learn how-to teach virtue and find a way to give every child a systematic training in morality and religion. 
By implication, Dr. Atheam fulfills the prophecy of Senator Pepper. When the time comes for action that will be demanded by these "viewers with alarm," the Catholic educational system will receive the study it merits. 
President Ruthven, of Michigan, has recently proposed a system of character education for his university and the appointment of a religious counsellor for students. Plans of this sort have been tried out in a few uni­versities in recent years; we have seen no adequate reports on the suc­cess of their work. We will always be skeptical, of course, of the success of any such plan where it is tied up with this so-called academic freedom which encourages the conscienceles.s professor to dazzle greenhorns with half-truths from Spinoza, Kant, or Schopenhauer, and to immerse them in the filth of Freud. President Bur­ton opened a school of religion at th° University of Michigan some ten years ago, in an effort to do what President Ruthven is undertaking now; his fallacy lay in a childish be­lief that instruction in "the funda­mentals underlying all religion" would give the results in character which ive know come only from faith in specific beliefs plus the grace of God. 
President Ruthven's proposa l brought forth the following editorial comment from a secular newspaper, the Grand Rapids Herald: 
"As has been said many times, one of the major faults of today's institu­tions of higher learning—in fact, the greatest of all faults—is their failure to reinforce or even retain character. Too often college studies break down faiths through presentation of half-truths without bothering to tell the whole story. Too often students are given the agnosticism of Spencer and Kant, and left stranded without hav­ing pointed out to them the fallacies of such teachings. Too often colleges substitute behaviorism or codes of ethics for religion. 
"Many a fine lad has entered col­lege a devout believer in religion only to be graduated as an agnostic mate­rialist and perhaps even an atheist. The college thus builds without a foundation. It teaches the sciences, etc., but neglects the first of all essentials of success in life, char­acter. 
"President Shaw of Michigan State College has been working for some time on a plan somewhat similar to that which seems to be in the back of Dr. Ruthven's head. Some time ago in a Grand Rapids address Presi­dent Shaw declared his conviction that every college student should go to a church, a cathedral, a synagogue or a meeting house; but it was entire­ly within the college's province to in­sist upon some form of worship. The Shaw plan lets the student choose his church, insisting only that some­where he maintain contact with faith. 
"There is in these days of economic reverses no man or woman more piti­ful than the victim of depression who has no religious staff upon which to lean, no faith to bolster him in de­feat. The college student who faces life with a cynical atheism may sneer at religion, just as Soviet Russia sneers; but let him look around. He will find that those men and women who hold their heads high in these times and in whose eyes gleams the determination to carry on, despite re­verses, are those whose faiths are firmly grounded in religious convic­tions. 
"After all, man is more than a ma­chine. The University which trains men and women ^vithout heed for character is delinquent in its respon­sibilities. It is doing no more for its students than a circus trainer does for dumb brutes. The one trains them to turn somersaults, the other to re­cite laws or mix medicines." 
Catholics everywhere will welcome such expressions of a return to san­ity. They represent the breaking through of fundamental American spirituality, which has been silent oto long. Thoughtful Catholic alumni will also find in it an incentive to greater personal effort to make their light shine before men, for when the world starts groping for Christ it will find Him only in the lives of the Christ-like. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November 1932 
Notre Dame Defeat Jolts Football World 
The restrictive claws of the Pitts­burgh Panthers modified the cadence of a Notre Dame sentence that seemed from the secular press to be almost without a period. The harsh 12-0 introduced in the packed Pitt arena was out of all accord with the 73-0 triumph over baskell, the 62-0 victory over Drake, and the 42-0 win over Carnegie Tech. It may have been that the Point-a-Minute fanfare, seldom heard in the land since Hurry-Up Yost was young, drowned out the growl of the Panther. Certainly the 12-point-a-minute attack launched by Pittsburgh came like the spring of their namesake beast upon a jungle explorer. 
Haskell opened the season with all of the courage and cunning of the sixteen tribes it represented. But lo, the poor Indian! The fullback jinx of Notre Dame was completely reversed in the opener. Three fullbacks ac­counted for eight touchdowns, Banas 3, Melinkovich 3, and Hagan 2. Lu­kats, left half; Murphy quarter, and Tobin, right half, accounted for the other three. Six points were kicked after touchdown and one point made from a run from kick formation by Koken on a bad pass and a good idea. 
The Bulldogs from Drake had their teeth taken out with the usual painless dentistry of the game on the second sunny Saturday of the season. As usual, though irithout their for­mer Coach Ossie Solem, the blue team from Des Moines had lots of fight, but what's one pepper in a tub of tamales. Eight Notre Dame backs took part in the scoring exercises of the afternoon. Banas scored two touchdowns and one each was the lot of Brancheau (on a beautiful pass) Lukats, Melinkovich, Kosky (on a blocked kick back of the 
• goal line), Koken, Costello and La-borne (on an intercepted pass.) The 
ATHLETICS: 

KuBTH AND KRAUSE 
Pittsburgh Didn't Sec This Picture in Time. 
plays were often spectacular, which Sheelietski, Melinkovich, Jaskwhich, detracted from the natural one-sided-Brancheau and Banas were the scor­ness of the game. ing Irish. 
Carnegie- Tech, as Notre Dame is It -was no wonder that there was a not too old to remember, has been certain amount of carnival spirit among the "big leaguers." But this when the season was discussed. year, even with Judge-Coach Steffen 
Notre Dame deserves a certain on the field in person, Tech was not amount of gratitude from the foot­in the stars to stop the 28 talented ball world. Anything that can soften young men who performed under the the somber countenance of Coach familiar banners of blue and gold Jock Sutherland of Pittsburgh merits (albeit in not so familiar green appreciation. And with a \'ictory over shirts). After a spectacular and rem­Army, a conservative tie with Ohio iniscent start in which Carnegie took State and the topping sensation of athe ball on a fumble on Notre Dame's \'ictory over Notre Dame, that grim 10-yard line on the first play of the profile ought to now be down to game, Notre Dame steadied to an the consistency of ordinary granite. 

irresistible game which overwhelmed "Hunk" Anderson was least fooled by the big red Carnegie eleven through­the early scores and the sad stories out the long four quarters. The Notre from the lair of the Panther. But Dame first team played just slightly what could he do? The record would less than half the game, but scored have made a Gil Dobie act or a Stagg­three touchdowns during that time Fears-Purdue statement the laugh of Jaskwhich brought even the convinced the season. And when three quarters crowd to its feet with a 60-yard re­of the game itself had passed with no turn of a punt for a touchdown. Little signs of a Pitt offense, who would Mike Koken finally succeeded in per­have foreseen that strange interlude? 
suading his interference to follow him Not this particular Sunday-morning and reeled off 58 yard for the always quarterback. 
welcome 6-point jump.- The second string line and backfield looked almost Every paper in the country having as good as the first—some smarter carried the story of the Great Upset, heads than this writer said they there is no need to elaborate here. 
wouldn't bother to say almost. Koken, So long as it continues to be a great 
November 1932 THK NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
upset when Notre Dame is defeated, certainly the alumni and the students have little to worry about. 
Probably a lot of alumni dues were paid to Pitt after the game that would have ordinarily come here, be­cause the delegation from Western Pennsylvania that came out for the Carnegie Tech game must have gone home and spent the week Panther hunting. But then a consistent back­er of Notre Dame, by seasons, hasn't much to worry about except his in­come tax. 
The ALUJIXUS ventures to state that it still considers Mr. Heartley Anderson and his staff very compet­ent coaches and that the Notre Dame team is a great team. When bigger and better tackles than Mr. Kurth and Mr. Krause are built, probably it will be Mr. Anderson and his staff who will build them. The line has looked great in one game or another from end to end, and including Messrs. Host and Kosky and sundry substitutes. The backfield is so va­ried and powerful that a certain amount of difficulty might be con­ceded even to Hunk in arranging them to the best advantage. Ball-carrying de luxe is ball-carrying de Lukats locally. And that is saying something that ought to be supple­mented by endless praise of the other backs. 
If anyone thinks that Mr. Hanley's Wildcats, who are getting wilder week by week, or Mr. Jones' movie heroes —and the ALUSINUS joins here in re­gretting the premature retirement from football of On-ille Mohler—or Major Basse's militia, are sitting back relaxed as a result of the Pitt game, more than one of the nation's increas­ing asylums still lacks its proper quota. 
BASKETBALL 

Well, if you think the gloom over Pitt is thick, listen to this forecast 
•from genial George Keogan, basket­ball coach par excellence, and then smile with the football staff. A Scho­lastic reporter secured the following from the PoUyanna of the local hard­wood : 
"They're all tough." Thus spoke Coach George Keogan when asked what games on this year's basketball schedule would be the toughest. "We have lost six veterans," stated the Notre Dame mentor, "and we have one of the toughest schedules in the country. Whether the material may be fair, mediocre, or good, we play a tough schedule and take them as they come." 
The prospects point to a fair team. Whether or not the cagers of 1933 will measure up to last year's sched­ule is a matter for conjecture. If they do fall short, however, of the 1932 record of the Keoganites, there will be nothing to be ashamed of. Few teams can maintain a nine hun­dred average over a two-year period. The team will be built around a nu­cleus of veterans. 
Prominent among these is Captain 
COACH KEOGAN 
His troubles begin soon. 

Johnny Baldwin who \yas out with pneumonia most of last year, but from whom Coach Keogan expects great things this year. Also return­ing to the fold are Big Ed "Moose" Krause, Joe Voegle, Ed Alberts, Leo Crowe, Leo Keating, Gene Holland, and "Butch" O'Neil. Among those coming up from last year's freshmen are Jim Newbold, Al McGuff, Ray Boland and Al Jordan. 
After two games with Albion and Illinois Wesleyan which must be con­sidered, more or less, as warm up games, the Keoganites swing into real competition against Northwest­ern on Dec. 19. The football activ­ities of Messrs. Krause, Boland, and McGuff will require their presence in California on the tenth of December. 
They will not return to Notre Dame until the fifteenth and, there­fore, they will have but four or five days of practice before the North­western game. This will certainly be a factor in the Wildcats' favor. 
The cagers will then run into the Purdue outfit. The Big Ten cham­pions of last year have every man back with the exception of Johnny Wooden, the stellar AU-American guard. Purdue is one of the teams which marred Keogan's almost per­fect record of last year, and the Irish will be out for revenge. 
Coach Harold Olson of Ohio State has one of the best teams that the Buckeyes have ha'd in years, and Coach Keogan looks for plenty of trouble from Olson's cagers. 
The tvvo Pitt games will probably be hard fought battles. All reports state that the Pitt team of this year will come up to the high standard of Panther teams of the past. The But­ler series, the Indiana classics, rep­resent the gallant efforts of a smaller school to take the measure of a larger one. 
For the first time in many years the Irish cagers journey to the Chi­cago Midway where they will encoun­ter the strongest array of hoopsters that the Maroons have boasted of in many a day. 
On the first of February, Carnegie Tech invades the Notre Dame gym. Tech's team of last year was weak in the early part of the season, but came back to win its final ten games. Last year's entire team has returned to school and, if appearances mean any­thing at all, this contest should be one of the best of the year. ,, 
For six straight years, the Irish of Notre Dame, and the Quakers of Pennsylvania have encountered each other on the basketball court. For six straight years, the Irish of Notre Dame have won. But each year they have won either by a single point or by a single basket. 
Wabash and Toledo are of unknown quality, but may prove troublesome. Western Reserve and Michigan State always put out strong teams which never fail to fight the Irish imtil the final gun. 
Laborers are now putting the court into condition, and practice started late in October. 
NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL SCHEDULE, 1932-33 
Dec. 9—^Albion at Notre Dame. 
Dec 15—Illinois "Wesleyan at Notre Dame. 
Dec 19—Northwestern at Notne Dame. 
Dec 23—^Purdue at Lafayette. 
Dec 28—Oliio State at Columbus. 
Dec 31—^Northwestern at Evanston. 
Jan. 7—^Afartiuette at Notre Dame. 
Jan. 14—Butler at Notre Dame. 
Jan. 21—Pittsbursh at PittsburKh. 
Jan. 23—Toledo at Toledo. 
Feb. 1—Cameffje Tech at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 4—Chicago at Chicafco. 
Feb. 11—^Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. 
Feb. 18—^PennsyU'ania at Philadelphia. 
Feb. 20—^Western Keserve at Cleveland. 
Feb. 24—^Michigan State at Notre Dame. 
Mar. 1—Butler at Indianapolis. 
Mar. 4—Wabash at Notre Dame. 
Mar. T—^Marquette at Milwaukee 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS November 1932 
Sons of Alumni Feature the Annual Notre Dame Roll Call 
And If the Information Were Available, Space Could Hardly Be Found for the "Younger Brothers of the Boys We Used to Know,-" Prevalence of Family Names Tribute to Notre Dame. 
The Registrar's Office has kindly furnished the Alumni Office with proof sheets of the new Student Di­rectory. 
Glancing through it, it seemed al­most like the records in the Alumni Office. There is, unfortunately, no record upon which existing relations between students and alumni can be definitely checked. But with the old eye practiced through long years of scanning, the ALUMNUS went through the list, checking those names that had a familiar ring, but, for the sake of time and space, confined the first story to sons. 
It is a tribute to Notre Dame that so many Notre Dame men have found it possible and good to send their sons here for their education. When we remember that the number of alumni eligible to be the fathers of sons of college age is far, far smaller than it will be when another genera­tion rolls around, the following list is impressive. 
From Buenos Aires, South Amer­ica, Julius A. Arce, C.E. '99, has sent his son, Julius G. Arce, a senior this year in the College of Commerce. 
John H. Barbazette, son of the late Dr. Leon Barbazette, Ph.C. '11, Terre Haute, is completing a course in mechanical engineering this year. 
Paul Bergan, another son of Wil­liam N. Bergan, '98, South Bend, is a freshman this year in the Arts and Letters College. 
Frank P. Burke, LL.B., '03, Mil­waukee, has a son, John J., a sopho­more in Arts and Letters. 
Robert W. Butler, a junior in Arts and Letters, is the third son of Frank 
J. Butler, Sr., '94, Lakewood, 0., to attend the University. 
Similarly, Jerome J. Gushing, a sophomore in Engineering, is the third son of John F. Gushing, C.E., '06, to attend Notre Dame, 
Pedro de Landero, C.E., '11 is keep­ing his professorial eye upon Carlos de Landero, who this year is a soph­omore in G. E. 
John J. Dempsey, Jr., C. E. fresh­man this year, is the son of John J. Dempsey, G.E., '95, Tacoma, Wash. 
M e n d o t a. III., has contributed James H. Dubbs, son of John W. Dubbs, LL.B., '03, Jim is in his sec­ond year of Law. 
Francis Dunn, Jr., Joliet, a soph­omore in A.B., is realizing the long standing ambition of Frank Sr. 
Vincent Fransioli an d Walter Fransioli, Jr., Memphis, juniors in Mechanical Engineering, are sons of Walter Fransioli, '08. 
John E. Hanley, sophomore in Commerce, is the son of Michael Hanley, '01, South Bend. • 
Another son, whose career as a freshman in Science is under truly paternal discipline, is Jerome Kacz­marek, son of Prof. R. M. Kaczmarek, M.S., '13. 
Daniel L. Madden, Jr., A.B. soph­omore, is the son of Daniel L. Mad­den, LL.B., '06, Chicago, 111. 
Pat Malloy, LL.B., '07, former president of the Association, believes in faith with works, e.g. Pat Malloy, Jr., freshman in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Donnell J. McCormack, a freshman in Commerce, is the son of Michael J. McCormack, LL.B., '99, Memphis, Tenn. 
Lawrence IL McNerney, LL.B., '06, is the father of John L. McNerney, a junior in Arts and Letters, Elgin, Vd. 
John M. Nagelson, a sophomore in Science, is the son of Lou Nagelson, Fort WajTie, a graduate student in '10. 
Another son of a former president of the Alumni Association is John H. Neeson, Jr., son of John H. Neeson, C.E., '03, Philadelphia. Young John is a sophomore A.B. 
Eugene L. O'Brien, sophomore in Arts and Letters, is the son of George 
L. O'Brien, '91, South Bend. 
John J. O'Connor, G.S.C., a sopho­more in Moreau Seminary, is the son of former Association President Daniel 
J. O'Connor, Ph.B., '05, Chicago, III. 
John A. Parish, freshman A.B., and . Vamum A. Parish, Jr., sophomore A.B., are sons of Vamum A. Parish, Momence, 111, 

James W. Pick, a sophomore in Sci­ence, and John F. Pick, a senior in Arts and Leters, are sons of Edwin Pick, '03, West Bend, Wis. 
Robert E. Proctor, Jr., senior Ci\il Engineer, and Thomas G. Proctor, sophomore in A.B., are sons of Robert 
E. Proctor, '04, Elkhart, Ind. 
John C. Shively, in his second year of Law, is the son of Dudlev Shively, LL.M., '02, South Bend. 
Edmund A. Stephan, senior in Arts and Letters, editor of the Scholastic, is the son of A. G. Stephan, C.E , '04, New York City. 
Wm. A. Walsh, Jr., a freshman in Arts and Letters is the son of Wil­liam A. Walsh, '99 Yonkers, N. Y. 
Lincoln Wurzer, a sophomore in Arts and Letters, is a son of the late 
F. Henry Wurzer, LL.B., '98, formeer president of the Association. 
The ALUJINUS regrets that avail­able statistics make the foregoing list very fallible. Our hope is we will be informed by father or son of those names unintentionally omitted. 
We plan, during the year, if cir­cumstances permit, to go into the larger field of the presence on the campus of the numerous younger brothers mentioned previously. 
We may reach across the road into what seems, on casual evidence, to point to a number of daughters of alumni at St. Mary's. 
And the sketchy research to date has indicated numerous uncles and grandfathers lurking in the Regis­trar's annals. 
Any information along these genea­logical lines of an unusual nature or that we are likely to miss, we \\-ill ap­preciate receiving from other sources. For example, by the third generation, a boy named: Zilch may prove to be the grandson; of an alumnus named Abbott, via an Abbott heiress. We are discussing incorporating an N. D. family tree, in some convenient form, on the Registrar's applications for freshmen. Because, said the father of three prospects some twenty years hence, we anticipate a rapid growth in this pleasant direction. 
November 19S2 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
CINCINNATI 

Dear Jim: Many thanks for the mention in the ALUMNUS. I closed our Camp around the middle of September, and I am just beginning to get acclimated to the old desk again. 
Of course at this time being in the position of Secretary of the Notre Dame Club, I am receiving inquiries and calls relative to the Notre Dame football games. 
Stan Cofall dropped in the other evening for a little chat on the Notre Dame-Navy game to be played at Cleveland on November 19th. It cer­tainly is a good move on the part of the Standard Oil Company handling these tickets, and it certainly will b? a break for me in referring people because in all probability, we will have numerous requests for tickets. I would not hesitate a minute in say­ing that Cincinnati will send at least a thousand people to this game. 
Leo Dubois is in Chicago this week­end and expects to drop down for the Haskell Game. I told him to call in to see you and say "Hello" to the gang. 
Edward McHugh is convalescing in the Good Samaritan Hospital from an infected shoulder as a result of an automobile accident received in Mi­ami, Florida last winter. The old boy has been pretty sick but he is now, I believe, on the mend. There was some doubt for a while that he might lose an arm. 
The Club is getting away next Tuesday, October 11th, with our first luncheon of the season. We expect to meet at least once a month there­after. 
I am sure it will be a pleasure to you to hear that Chief Joe Meyer, coach at Xavier University, and his assistant, Clem Crowe, have turned in two nice victories up to date. They have a likely-looking squad and a tough schedule,' but I believe they are going to go places. Joe Morris­sey is also back this year with a strong high school team at Roger Bacon. Joe won the Greater Cincin­nati Championship last year, and it looks like he might be good for a repeater. 
Give all the gang my best, and with kindest personal regards, I am, 
W. D. "Hogan" Morrissey. 
CLEVELAND 

Dear Jim: Several requests have been receiveti by members of the local Alumni group seeking information regarding 
the plans for the Navy-Notre Dame week-end in Cleveland on November 
19. Due to the Club's desire to ar­range for exceptionally pleasant en­tertainment for that week-end the answers to these requests have been somewhat delayed. However, thing's are now shaping themselves and we are in a position to pass the word on 
to j'ou. 
-After thorough investigation and repeated conferences the Club se­lected the Hotel Statler as the official Norte Dame Headquarters. As the name indicates this hotel is one of the famous Statler chain and is lo­cated on Euclid Avenue at East 12th Street in the heart of the "Uptown Section." 
The tentative program for the week-end is as follows: 
1.
 The team will arrive on Friday and put up at the Lake Shore Hotel (Manager Fred Joyce, '23). They will practice at the Lakewood High Field. A special luncheon for the team at the Chamber of Commerce is rumored, though the Club has re­ceived no word thereof. 

2.
 The students will arrive Satur­day -A.. M. Those desiring to go to Mass can go to the Cathedral, E. 9th & Superior, several blocks from the Hotel and the station. 

3.
 A special student breakfast has been suggested by Sonnhalter's and Fircher-Rohr Restaurants (at 25 or 35 cents. Fischer-Rohr's is located on East 9th just south of the Cathe­dral (and is managed by Charles Rohr, '30). Sonnhalters is located at 


E. 12th and Chester on the street di­rectly behind the Statler (and is man­aged bv the father of Jack Sonn­halter, '2S). 
4.
 The Navy-Notre Dame game is scheduled for 2:00 P. M. 

5.
 A special six-course testimonial dinner is being arranged for the two teams and guests in the Ball Room of the Statler. This is scheduled to start at 6:00 P. M. and will cobt $1.50 per head. We desire this to be a real meal and are making it as cheap as possible. Music, speakers, and entertainment are planned. 


G. The famous Cleveland Sym­phony Orchestra have arranged a special concert including the Sym­phony of "Rockne" and other popular numbers. This is scheduled from 
8:30 to 10:00. Admission 50 cents to $2.50. It will be held at the famous Severance Hall at East 110th and Euclid Avenue. 
7. The Navy-Notre Dame Dance is planned as the anti-climax of the week-end. It is scheduled from 9:00 to 3:00. A nationally prominent band is being booked for the main Ball Room and John Beljon, '30, and his WGAR Orchestra are planned for the Pompeian Room. Incidentally the entire mezzanine and second floor are being turned over to this activity in addition to the Pompeian Room. It is the desire of the local Alumni to make this dance comparable with the Notre Dame Christmas Dance which is considered Cleveland's biggest so­cial affair of the year. It is not in the nature of a Scholarship or Vic­tory Football Dance. Decorations and night club floor show are planned to add to the attractiveness of the dance. Ample lounge and parlor service will be provided for. The price has been set, in conformity with the times, at $3.00 per couple. It was the desire of the Club to keep the dinner and dance separate so as not to be prohibitive in either case. Those desiring a dinner dance have the combination at the very reasonable figure of ?6.00 per couple. 
Trusting that this will prove to be 
a "real Notre Dame week-end," we 
remain. 
Respectfully, 

The Notre Dame Club of Cleveland, Clayton G. Leroux, Sec'y. 
NEW YORK CITY 

Dear Jim: I am sorry that I did not comply with your request and get this infor­mation in around the 20th, but I only found out today that definite arrange­ments were made for the following: 
The New York Club is having its Dinner Dance after the Army Game on Nov. 26th, in the Delia Robia room of the Hotel Vanderbilt. All arrange­ments are being made to have the best Post-Army aifair that has ever been held in New York. The team and the coaching staff wall be present and also several other guests of honor. 
The club extends a cordial invita­tion to all Alumni and their friends who \v\\\ be in New York for the game to join us on that night. The price will be reasonable and the music furnished by one of the leading or­chestras. 
At the last meeting of the Board of ^Governors, Rev. John B. Kelly and Christy Walsh were elected Honorary Members. Father Kelly is a spiritual director of the Catholic Writers Guild and Chaplain of the Professional Golfers Association. He is also a 
60 THE NOTBE DAME ALUMNUS November 1932 
poet and known throughout the city. 
Christy Walsh is well known to all Notre Dame men through his connec­tion vdth "Eock," and is also an Hon­orary Member of the Notre Dame club of Los Angeles which makes him a friend of Notre Dame Aliunni in the West as well as the East. 
Doc Gelson. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY CLUB So thick and fast has been the de­scent of the football season on South Bend, three successive week-ends, that the alumni locally have had little time to breathe. And with only the Northwestern game ahead, and that soon, plans are rather tentative. As usual, the Club will be pushing its every facility toward the accom­modation and entertainment of the University's guests of that week-end, particularly the visiting alumni. Alumni who desire rooms in pri­vate homes for the week-end to es­cape the annual practice of the lead­ing local hotels of reserving rooms only for two nights at capacity prices, can write to the Alumni Of­fice and through the co-operation of the St. Joe Valley Club these rooms ^vill be resen-ed for whatever night is desired, at moderate prices. Expe­riences of the past three years indi­cate that this can be done easily and to the satisfaction of the %isitors. Students, like alumni, have been so busy with the opening games and the 
DEATHS 
MARTIN J. MC CUE, B.S., '79, M.S., '81, C.E., '82, dean emeritus of the College of Engineering, died in Woodstock, 111., on Oct. 10. The Religious Bulletin carried the follow­ing: 

"With the death of Professor Mc-Cue last Monday, another link with the past was broken. Or was it? When we reflect on the fact that he was buried on the feast day of his dear old friend. Father Sorin, we may bet­ter say that another link with the past was forged—^for Notre Dame is of the Communion of Saints; she lives for the things of the spirit; for her the life beyond the grave is more real than the life of this earth; \vith her "there is no accounting of days," and we may better say that the death of Professor McCue has given us an­other intercessor, and of our very own before the throne of God. You have been told time and again that in the case of daily communicants, sudden death is a special mark of divine favor. It seems that in the case of these friends of God, who have sought student trip to Cleveland the week after the Northwestern game, that student plans for the "unofficial home­coming" have not been announced. 
But come on down. There'll be dancing in the streets and what have you. \\Tiatever you need, you can get, except a loan—the Club treasury has taken a beating from student loans which have had to be extended since the students of last two or three years have been unable to get the customary income, even after gradua­tion, to clear them. But otherwise—, we're waiting in the St, Joseph Val­ley to welcome the biggest crowd in the Stadium's history. 

Lays of Ancient N. D. 

The professors returned from their summer vacations were reminiscent of one of the poems of "Justin Thyme," in real life the beloved Professor Ar­thur Joseph Stace, 'G4, who taught at Notre Dame until his death in 1890. The poem is called. The Undcsired Prefix. ". . . . The title once indeed seemed 
hard to gain. And hence the strain; But unto him who titles would refuse, 'Tis harder far to lose: 
In vain I flee to parts unknown. Debauch my tongue with current slang. Scarce seven days have o'er me flown 


^THE ALUMN] 
him out with haste every morning, lest they lose any mite of grace that He has appointed them for that day, their very desire for the closest pos­sible union wth Him has inclined Him to take them swiftly, and with­
out the long agony of protracted ill­ness, when their measure of merit is made up. And the sudden dgath of Prof. McCue—^he dropped dead while he was reading—recalls the remarks of St. Charles Borromeo made while playing chess, that if he were to be called in half an hour he would go on and iinish the game, which he had begun for the glory of God. 
"As student and as professor, Mar­tin McCue spent more thand half a century at Notre Dame. He loved this place so much that when per­
Ere some well-meaning friend 
Some letter or some postal-card will 
send— 
May such go hang! 

From the address they cannot doff 
That odious prefix, "Prof." 
"Great Henry Wadsworth, home on spirit \\-ings From thy long fellowship with earthly things! In that bright sphere which now thou call'st thine own— Than which Excelsior shall ne'er be known— In that bright sphere, say, do they ape the lesser And outrage spirit ears by calling 
thee "Professor?" 
I pause for a reply 
If "aye," 
Then I 
Shall hesitate to die!" 
Earl Dickens Honored 

Earl S. Dickens, former Grand Knight of Notre Dame Council, K. of C, secretary to Rev. John Cavanaugh, and Endowment worker, was recently elected secretary of Beck, KoUer & Company, Inc. They one of the larg­est producers in the world of syn­thetic resins. Mr. Dickens directs the Sales and Advertsing policies of the Corporation, whose general offices are located at 601 Woodward Heights Boulevard in Detroit, Michigan. 
sonal matters made it necessary for him to leave, four years ago, he didn't dare return even for a visit—not even when he came to South Bend on busi­ness last summer. He wrote to a friend that even a little visit would have made the pain of a new separ­ation unbearable. He never saw the new Engineering building which one of his former students presented to the University last year. 
"Prof. McCue was a thorough Christian scholar. Although he had few equals in his field of applied mathematics, he was not merely a mathematician. His culture was Cath­olic in the fullest sense. His mind was remarkably keen, his tastes covered wide ranges of thought, and his read­ing covered, it seemed, every worth­while interest. As an agile contro­vertialist he was very popular among his fellow-professors. And he had few equals among teachers as an inspirer of youth. Between his intense inter­est in the pupils who came to him and his dogged sense of duty, no student in his classes had a chance to lag. When he set his signature to a diplo­ma you could take for granted tiiat that man was an engineer. 
November 1QS2 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
"While the Catholic Church re­serves strictly to herself all judg­ment of the heroicity of \irtue re­quired for sainthood, we can say in the broad human sense that Martin McCue was a saint. His cultivation of the life of his soul was as intense as his pursuit of mathematics. He-hated sin with all the ardor of his spirit; he was child-like in his simple, eager pursuit of virtue—always with­out show and pomp, which he feared and despised. He loved to serve Mass but he sought out a dark corner of a chapel to exercise this act of devotion, lest some one would think him holy and not pray for him when he died. It is too bad more students didn't see him on the step of the altar, kneeling up straight as an arrow, although he was in his seventies; it might have made better Christians of some of them. But his humility would not tolerate this publicity, and many things will be told of him in death that would have wounded his humility had they been known in his lifetime." 
Eesolutions were drawn up by the Faculty of the University of Notre Dame in memory of Professor McCue. 
Whereas: God in His infinite wis­dom has deigned to recall the soul of His servant, Martin J. McCue, dean emeritus of the College of Engineer­ing of the University of Notre Dame, and 
Whereas: We feel that the univer­sity has lost a loyal and devoted member of her faculty, whose beauti­ful Christian life, and zeal in Catholic education, have been an inspiration to all who knew him. Therefore be it 
Resolved: That we, the representa­tives of the lay faculty of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, who knew, admired and loved Professor McCue 
. best in life, be not unmindful of him in death. 
That we extend our sympathy to the grief-sticken niece, and to the University of Notre Dame. 
That these resolutions be printed in the Notre Dame Scholastic, and in the Notre Dame ALUJINUS. 
Francis X. Ackermann. William L. Benitz. Edward J. Maurus. 

FEANK WARD O'JIALLEY, '95­'98, died Oct. 19, in Tours, France. Eev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, '90, who knew him well, writes: 
"Frank Ward O'Malley was the most brilliant writer among the alum­ni of his generation. I know Brisbane declared him the greatest reporter of his time and I have heard that Rich­ard Harding Davis used identical words and H. L. Mencken similar words. George Ade thought him "the best writer of Josh stuif." Some of his serious works have got into journalism text-books. "O'Malley of the Morning Sun" was for years a proverb. When he died in Tours, France, Oct. 19, he had achieved two popular Broadway plays, two humor­ous books, and many magazine ar­ticles. Self-exiled to Europe by the Volstead Act—^there was a touch of high class Bohemian in him—he was at his own recjuest buried where he died. Frank Ward O'Malley was in­
stinctively and unalterably loyal to his blood and his creed, E. I. P." 
A wife and two children survive Mr. O'Malley. 
WILLIAM H. BRADY, a student at Notre Dame in '07, died in Septem­ber, according to news received at Notre Dame. Mr. Brady enlisted in the Army at the outbreak of the Mex­ican trouble and went from that ex­pedition to the World War. He re­mained in the army until five years ago. He was a resident of Corn­ing, N. Y. 
VERY REV. MSGR. FRANCIS H. GAVISK, LL.D., '14, chancellor of the Diocese of Indianapolis and for 42 years rector of St. John's Church, died Oct. 22 at the age of 76. Msgr. Ga\-isk preached the baccalaureate sermon at Notre Dame in 1914. He had been a newspaper reporter and actor before his vocation to the priest­hood and was loved and respected for his humanity. He was a former presi­dent of the National Conference of Charities and Corrections. In 1919, the Holy Father conferred upon him the title Prothonotary Apostolic. 
BIRTHS 

Carol Sue is the euphonius name of a daughter bom to Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL SCHWARZ, '21, Wilson, Kons. 
Mr. and Mrs. JEROME DIXON, '22, Chicago, are parents of a son. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. ARM­STRONG, '25—none other—are par­ents of a son, Philip Carter, born Oct. 9, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND KEIS­EE, '27, South Bend, are parents of a daughter, Muriel Rae, bom Oct. 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. LES HEGELE, '28, are parents of a daughter, Elaine Marie, born in August in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT ZEIS, '30, are parents of a son, Robert Jr., bom Oct. 13. Bob is attending Ohio State medical school, Columbus. 
MARRIAGES 

WILLIAM BROWN, '29, was mar­ried to Miss Mildred Conley, Dixon, 111., on Oct. 1. JOHN BROWN and JACK ELDER as best man and usher respectively carried the affair'to suc­cessful completion. REV. JAMES H. MC DONALD, C.S.C, '19, performed the ceremony. Bill is hitting on all six with the AUis-Chalmers Co. 
ROBERT P. MANIX, '29, and Miss Pauline Kipp, Greenville, O., were married in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame on Oct. 18 by REV. JAMES STACK, C.S.C, '13. 
NORiLlN JENKINS, '29, Rich­mond, Ind., was married during the summer, but the "case records" are missing. 
CHARLES B. CUSHWA, JR., '31, and Miss Margaret Elizabeth Hall, Evanston, 111., were married in St. Mary's Church, Evanston, Oct. 15. 
WILLIAM B. ROWEN, '31, De­troit, and Miss Mary Pauline Welsh, Kalamazoo, were married in St. Aug­ustine's Church, Kalamazoo on Oct. 
15. GEORGE BEAUTIGAN, '29, JOSEPH BLANEY, '32, was one of the ushers. Bill and Mrs. Eowen are at home at 13200 La Salle Blvd., De­troit, where Bill is with the Eowen Motor Parts Co. 
PERSONALS 
1928 (Too late for classification.) 

JOHN HEEBEET has changed his address from Syracuse, N. Y., to Springfield, Mass. John is with the 
S. S. Kresge Co., there at 1534 Main street. He would like to see or hear from some of the '28 men. He prom­ises to be back in June for our five year reunion. I hope that the rest of you are making similar plans. 
JOE BRANNON visits South Bend occasionally on hurried trips in the interest of the Advertising Depart­ment of Sears, Roebuck & Co, Joe tells me that on a recent visit to New York City he met Mr. and Mrs. HOW­ARD PHALIN and JACK WINGER­TEE. Howie is still with the Jlidland Press and is at present living at the New Yorker. Jack is working on Wall Street and from Joe's report is hitting the ball plenty hard. 
WILLAED WAGNER, FEANK DONOVAN and your class secretary spent a very pleasant afternoon a few weeks ago talking over Fresh­man, Sophomore and Corby Hall days with ANDY MULEEANY, C.S.C, at Moreau Seminary. Andy of Glee club fame finished his novitiate at Notre Dame last June and is studying here now. You will all enjoy seeing him when you are here in June for the reunion. 
The Class of '28 seems to be well represented at the bar in Chicago from a few of the reports that I have received. RED CONNERS is practicing law at 77 West Washing­ton St., JIM ALLEN and ED Mc-KEOWN are partners in the law firm of Owen, O'Brien, McKeown & Allen at 30 No. LaSalle Street. RAY MULLIGAN is an attorney in the of­fices of Anderson & Robertson in the First National Bank building. Rimior has it that BILL KEARNEY and BERT KORZENSKI have finished their work at Northwestern and are practicing also in Chicago. 
BILL DWYER of Hannibal, Mo., is with Montgomery Ward & Co., in Chi­cago. Bill rooms with JIM ALLEN at 2222 E. 70th street HAROLD KNOX is in the garage business in Chicago. Harold lives at 639 Addison street. He is the father of an eight months old baby giri. 
BILL DOWDALL has migrated from Chicago to Bufltalo where he is in the meat business. BERNIE BIRD is a probation officer in the Children's Court in Buffalo. BOB HAMILTON is -ivith the Distributors Group, Inc., at 63 Wall street in New York City. 
1888 
The ALUMNUS is pleased at this season of the year to have the priv­ilege of printing an observation on Notre Dame's first football game by 
. the late DR. HENRY B. LUHN who captained the first team. The letter was ^\•ritten to a student in the de­partment of Journalism and is a rather striking illustration of the adaptability and aggressiveness which have characterized Notre Dame teams from 1888 on. 
"Notre Dame's first football team did not have the advantage of either coaching by or instruction from any­one that had even seen a game of football. We therefore had to develop from within ourselves. 
"We played the University of Mich­igan two games in the spring of 1888. 
"As Captain of that team (and realizing that we could not expect to compete on even terms with a well coached team such as Michigan was) I instructed our team—both as a team and individually—^to study Michigan's ofTense from the start and that we could compare notes between halves— at that time the game consisted of two halves and not four periods as now—and thus stop their offensive and be prepared to put up an offense of our own. 
"Let me further state that our team was made up of a fine bunch of intelligent athletes. 
"From the first whistle the Mich­igan team ran away with us and at the end of the first half the score was 24-0. The defense our team put up in the second half was a revelation and to me the most satisfying and gratifying incident in my football career. We held Michigan scorless in that second half. 
"The most thrilling experience in my football career was in that same second half when Hal Jewett was given the ball and with adequate—if not perfect—interference ran for a touchdown. 
"Ed Prudhomme kicked the goal making the score for the second half 6-0 favor of Notre Dame and for the game 24-6 in favor of Michigan." 
1890-93 
JOHN W. HACKETT is in the con­
cert managing business in Los An­
geles, with offices in the Rives-Strong 
Building. 
1894 Some of us have lost sight of Hugh 
C. Mitchell but he is, nevertheless, very active. He is still a student in the bigger sense. Very recently he wrote an article for the magazine section of the New York Times on the actirities of the main survey party of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic Survey, while in the vicinity of New York. 
Professor Alden Davies of the Com­mercial Department at Notre Dame has had a background on the concert stage. Maybe we are giving away a secret but he is well known in eastern cities where the newspapers have used superlatives in reviewing his concerts. He is extremely well known at Columbia university and as a rule summers at Gloucester, Mass., where he has a host of friends. Get him to sing sometime. 
John Kenney, President of the Notre Dame club of New York City, is preparing for the social onslaught that usually happens immediately aft­er the Notre Dame-Army game. That means a dinner and dance. All of the hotels of New York City are in com­petition for the engagement, each promising the very best possible. They are equally insistent on getting the engagement for the Christmas Dance of the Metropolitan club. 
Times have changed! Anthony Wir­ry, manager of the football team, team, writes us offering cooperation in connection with the football games. There was a time when anyone con­nected with the business end of such projects ran away from the alumni. We were doing well if, through pray­erful appeals we were able to get any kind of an audience with "the powers that be." Anthony is balm to one's football soul. 
1897 It was a real pleasure to have the Class Secretary walk into the Alimini office on the eve of the Carnegie Tech game. Father Mac was looking good, enjoyed the game and promised to be on hand for the Northwestern game. He had driven out from New York 
with Mr. Francis J. Gartland of Brooklyn, a St. John's alumnus and active in the National Catholic Alum­ni Federation, who has a son at Notre Dame. Father Mac says the classmates retain their elusive quali­ties as far as news value goes. 
A recent clipping brings word that COL. JOSEPH MARMON, secretary to Father Morrissey in the late nine­ties, has become commanding officer ' of the 16th infantry regiment sta­tioned on Governors Island. Col. Marmon had been senior instructor in the Indiana National Guard. 
1898 
FRANK E. HERING, first formal 
coach of football at Notre Dame, was 
among the interested spectators at 
the Carnegie Tech game as was 
JEROME CROWLEY, Chicago. The 
former Association president ex­
pressed great admiration for the 
variety and power of the Notre Dame 
attack. And it will be welcome news 
at the Fall meeting of the Board of 
Lay Trustees to learn that Mr. Her­
ing at last sees hopes of a turn for 
the better economically. He has been 
altogether too accurate for the last 
several years. With an ear to the 
ground over which tramp more than 
half a million Eagles, men for the 
most part whose employment or un­
employment is the real barometer of 
the national business structure, Mr. 
Hering is an indusrtial oracle to be 
heeded. 
1899 The ALUMNUS learns with regret of the protracted illness from arthritis of A. J. HANHAUSER, 3641 N. 21st St., Philadelphia It is hoped that re­turned health will once more place him among the active alumni in that area. 
1901 
Following is a sketch of CHAUN­CEY YOCKEY which appeared in a Milwaukee paper recently: 
Chauncey Yockey ... . Exalted Ruler of Milwaukee Elks . . . Wis­consin's Grover Whalen . . . without benefit of the boutonniere ... . Gov. La FoUette appointed Chauncey the state's official greeter . . . but Chaun­cey beat him to it ... he has been giving distinguished visitors "a great big hand" for many years . . . and they like it, and come back for more . . . Chauncey first greeted his par­ents at Escanaba, Mich. . . some 52 years ago .. . . and after matriculat­ing at Notre Dame, he settled down here. . . to devote himself to keeping the "Welcome" on Milwaukee's door­mat always bright and meaningful... at school, Chauncey was quite an ath­lete .. . he played football for Notre Dame when there was only one Horse­man . . . but says the football stand­ard at South Bend was pretty high even in those days. . . became a law­

November 1932 
^Hj^ NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 53 
yer, and is a member of the firm of Yockey & Yockey. . . his brother and partner, Ed, is president of the Law­yers club . . . but Chaunce/s chief in­terest is in the Elks . . . and the Elks think a lot of him . . . they elected him Exalted Ruler 16 times .. . his hobby is greeting people . . . promot­ing bigger and better civic demonstra­tions . . . and getting down close to the baldhead row on "first nights" .. . he never married . . . but keeps bachelor hall at 710 E. Mason street ... . where his apartment contains numerous photographs of Chauncey handshaking celebrities . . . although a bachelor, one of his first interests is the welfare of children. . . particu­larly under-privileged kids. . . what vacations he takes, he usually spends visiting an Elks convention some­where. . . like a motorman taking a trolley ride on his day off. . . . but Chauncey dotes on human contacts... for which his happy, affable, breezy disposition fits him pecularly. . . his ambition for Milwaukee is to see it a metropolitan, up-to-the-minute city . . . one that would be famous for its hospitality .. . to which purpose he lends all his native ingenuity .. . as on the occasion of the recent visit of Captain Von Gronau and the other German flyers ... . when the city would have hustled them to a hotel... said "Wie Gehts". . . and let it go at 
that . . . Chauncey stirred things up .. . on his first appearance as official greeter ... . and the result was a tremendous civic reception . . . with the handshaking, of course, on the Elks club steps. . . right now, Chaun­cey is spending his spare time ... . early mornings, before his law clients get up . . . polishing up the brass Elk on the front lawn. . . in preparation for the national convention of Elks in 1933 . . . when he hopes to shake hands. . . with some 70,000 delegates and visitors to Milwaukee. 
1903 

JOHN H. NEESON and Mrs. Nee­son couldn't resist the combined ap­peal of John, Jr., and the Carnegie Tech game, and were found waiting outside the Dining Halls to surprise young John, who was unaware of their coming. In spite of having turned back ten million of his budget to the city, John looks better than he did last summer when he was through here under doctor's orders. 
1904 

G. A. FARABAUGH, as a member of the Indiana State Boxing Commis­sion and the father of a senior at St. Mary's, has a bright and active box in the Stadium at the games this Fall. 
1905 DON P. O'KEEFE was among those who thought Carnegie Tech 
might give the N. D. team a workout, coming here from Detroit with Messrs. Jones and Auger for the occa­sion. Notre Dame looked like one of the General Motors with which Don is familiar, bucking a kiddy car, (with which the Editor is better ac­quainted) . 
1906 

The Editor was grieved to fiind BILL BOSLER and a fine looking family of Boslers stalled in an unex­pected line-up in the University Din­ing Halls the week-end of the Car­negie game. Ultimately they were taken care of and the Northwestern game will find provision made for any overflow. 
1907 

A rush note from T. PAUL MC GANNON indicates that he is cover­ing his old stamping grounds bet\veen Corning and New York for COL. WILLIAM DONOVAN, LL.D., '29, Republican candidate for Governor of New York. 
1908 

GEORGE W. SPEENGER, Peoria, stopped in the Office the morning of the Carnegie Tech game. He, like LEROY REACH, has a daughter at St. Mary's, which gives them both better alibis for trekking Notre Dameward on game week-ends. 
1909 

FRANK WALKER and-AMBROSE O'CONNELL are still tremendously active in the treasury department of the Democratic National Committee Daily, both are besieged by hundreds looking for jobs, not realizing that one of the duties of these gentlemen is to obtain subscriptions from enthusiastic Democrats, which they are doing. However, Frank, through the wielding of some magic wand, brought in a half million dollars not long ago. -Ambrose wears his usual smile when he de­clines or accepts applicants. A kind no is better than a rough yes. 
1910 

.A.n open letter to the Class of 1910. 
We fancy that every Notre Dam.e man worthy of the name is inter­ested in reading news of the Univer­sity and Notre Dame men. This in­terest may be intensified somewhat during the football season but it per­sists throughout the year. The last number of the ALUMNUS carried a wealth of class notes and we believe most Notre Dame men read these notes — the men of tottering years reading them down through names which are unfamiliar and through years which are somewhat ultra modernistic. The Notes carry some­thing of the old spirit. Congratula­tions to the classes and the secre­taries. 
The secretary of this class who re­joices in his position regardless of the failure to pay off in dividends, as­sumes full responsibility for the woe­ful lack of notes interesting to the men of 1910. 
Previous to the reception of this 
copy of the ALUSINUS, you will have 
received a letter begging, cajoling, 
coaxing and daring you to apprise 
your secretary of your whereabouts 
your wherewith and other disabilities. 
The purpose back of this open let­
ter is to inveigle Jim Armstrong into 
setting aside a bit of space for the 
following months. 
In the event that "RED" MILLER, "PAT" WALSH and MYLES SIN­NOTT fail me at the Navy game in Cleveland, I shall draw my own con­clusions and proceed to cut them out of whole cloth. We met with Miller and Sinnott at a Cleveland - Notre Dame summer party—a sort of golf festival at Lake Forest Country club. Qualifying the golf distinguishes the party from the Annual Pilgrimage to Wooster. 
We are particularly eager to hear from "ROSY" DOLAN, GEORGE AT­TLEY, PAUL DONOVAN and CHET FREEZE. Please take it. It won't hurt. Act just like a big man. 
1911 My Dear Jim: 
I am sorry that during the course of the summer I did not see sufficient 1911 men to give you a grand roll call. However, I did have the pleas­ure of meeting a number of N. D. fellows, some of whom I had not seen for a long time. 
KEENE FITZPATRICK and I had a 1911 reunion all of our own at Solari's Restaurant in San Francisco. We were pleasantly surprised by the addition to our exclusive party of ED MEEHAN, who was a student in Corby Hall during our time. Ed now lives in Glendale, California, and is the Retail Merchandise Manager on the Pacific Coast for Sears, Roebuck and Company. 
I spent a pleasant day with JIMMY W-ASSON, who lives at San Leandro, Calif. He extended himself consider­ably and took Mrs. Steers, Brud and myself on tour of the sights of the bay region. With the exception of a few gray hairs, Jim is as active and as young as he was 21 years ago. 
In Los Angeles, at the Olympic Games, I met a great number of Notre Dame men. FOREST FLETCHER, who shared quarters with Jim and myself, unexpectedly dropped in on me and I had the pleas­ure of several short visits with him during the busy days of the Games. I also saw AL SCOTT, SLIP MADI­GAN, CHARLIE BACHMAN, JESS 
HAEPER, BILL KENNEDY and 
several others whom I do not recall at 
the moment. 
I also saw ALEX WILSON. His showing in the Olympic Games was wonderful, especially in the 800 me­ters. I saw him prior to the day of his race and he expressed the opinion that the field in the Olympic Games was a little classy for him, but he was going out and do his best. He certainly did and his performances in the SOO and 400 meter races displyed that he was not out of his class. He certainly kept his promise to do his best. In the 800 meter race he was beaten by the great Tom Hampson of England, who broke the record with Alex right there beside him, himself wrell within the old time for the dis­tance. It was one of those races that was so close that any little unfore­seen thing in the early stages of the race would have thrown it one way or the other. Alex was one of those heroes, who hung up a great perform­ance and is denied full recognition of his ability by the slight superiority of the victor. 
I am sorry, Jim, that I can't give you a better resume of the activities of my classmates, but they are scattered far and wide and I suppose are get­ting old and uninteresting anyhow. 
With kindest personal regards and trusting to have the pleasure of see­ing you at some of the games, I am, 
Fred L. Steers. 
1912 
DON HAMILTON, former presi­dent of the Association, and W.AL­TER DUNCAN, who served long and well as treasurer, are still paying for their prominence in numerous re­quests for football tickets which they can only pass on to the Athletic Of­fice in a substantial stream. 
M C. "MUGGSY" MC GRATH, who divides his genial personality be­tween his oil business and the Cath­olic High school football team in St. Joseph, Mich., was at one of the early 
N. D. games with the usual delegation from the lake front. 
1913 
FLOYD 0. JELLISON is cam­paigning for the attorney generalship of Indiana on the Republican ticket. 
1914 
WILBUR T. "DOLLY" GRAY spoke recently in Elkhart at a func­tion presided over by BOB PROC­TOR. "DOLLY" is located in Fort Wayne according to advices from Bob. He had been among the un­claimed for some time. 
The Edittor's face was pretty red when a letter came from FR.\NK HAYES, reported relaxing in the Oc­tober issue, saying that illness had 
tied up the former president for the past few months. Sic semper editors. 
1917 
Following is a letter of appeal from JOHN U. RILEY. It is too forceful to deny. Nominations for a new sec­retary for '17 are in order, and the member of the class who has had the most votes cast for him in the Alumni Office before Nov. 25, will be declared the secretary in the December ALU.M7 xus. The Editor wants to express to John the appreciation for the work he has done, which, over the period he has held office, represents a sub­stantial investment of time and ef­fort. Present circumstances are the guiding factor in accepting his sug­gestion of a change. 
"Although I have asked you many times to appoint someone else as sec­retary for our class, you never have seen fit to do so, and for this reason, probably more than any other, the news column for the Class of 1917 has never been remarkable for its in­terest or volume of news. Here, in the East, my contacts with Notre Dame men are few and far between. Even the small number who are in business in and around Boston are widely scattered, and, because their activities in business are along en­tirely diff^erent lines, I rarely, if ever, see any of them. Most of them are very much younger than I am, and there are not more than four or five men in all New England who were at Notre Dame in my time. I should say 60 percent of my class were from Chicago and surrounding middle western territory, and I feel that a secretary living in that part of the country could do a much better job. 
Because of changes in my business activities in the last three years, try­ing to lick the depression personally, and at the same time build up an or­ganization and sales volume for a new buisiness, has kept me very close to my work, with the result that I have sadly neglected my social obligations among my Notre Dame friends in the territory. 
1918 _ 
JOHN LEMMER writes that the dope is nil for this issue but that he is getting out a few reminders. An­swer them, you '18ers if you want to see what's going on in the '18 world. John doesn't claim to be Evangeline Adams. 
1920 
GENE KENNEDY, class of '20, was recently operated on in the Gov­ernment Hospital at Sawtelle, which hospital is commonly referred to as "Old Soldiers' Home." How Gene Kennedy made the grade as an old soldier is more than we can fathom. However, we do recall that during the late affair Gene rated as a Lieu­tenant in the Infantry. Gene's ap­pendix was bothering him so the gov­ernment decided to take it out. He is back at his desk again at the Bank of America, where he receives able assistance from MERVYN AG­GELER, class of '28, and D. CYRIL TOOMEY, class of '20. 
DELMAR J. EDMONDSON, whom a lot of us recall as editor of the Dome and also the founder and first editor of the Notre Dame Juggler, spent his summer sampling light wines and beer in France, Germany, Austria and waypoints. Del reports that the beer is very good, but doesn't seem to taste as good as it used to in the old days before Indiana went dry, when Meussel's Brewery on Thursday morning was as much a part of Notre Dame education as Father PAT HAGGERTY'S morning prayer. Del, as you may know, is a Professor of English and the Drama (with a broad "a"), at Glen­dale High School. He is also theat­rical editor for a publication known as Game and Gossip, which amounts to a westcoast Vanity Fair. 
In order to demonstrate the astute­ness and innate inability of the grad­uates of the Engineering School, WALTER KLAUER, class of 1920, showed the results of an education with Prof. "Heinle" JLAURUS by ap­pearing in Los Angeles during the month of July and selling snow plows without the benefit of the Chamber of Commerce. When anyone can con­vince people in the State of Califor­nia that they need a snow plow, then I am sure we can take his ability for salesmanship for granted. The Klauer Manufacturing Company, according to Walt, makes the only real snow­plow or snow remover worth while. 
Incidentally during the Olympics we had the pleasure of watching ALEX WILSON perform for the Ca­nadian Olympic team. During the same period a little dinner meeting was held at the Los Angeles Athletic Club. It is a bit early to pick foot­ball teams for All-This and -That, but going over the list of Notre Dame men present at the dinner I am sure you will agree that the following names would comprise a first rate football team in any man's league. There were present—Ends, IKE VOE­DISCH, MANNIE "\rEZIE, CHILE WALSH; tackles, TOM LIEB and CHARLIE BACHMAN; guards, take a choice of CLIPPER SMITH, HUNK ANDERSON, and SLIP MADIGAN; center, ADAM WALSH and TOJI YARR; quarterback, FRANK CA­RIDEO; for fulbacks, JOE SAVOL­DI; halfbacks, JIMMIE PHELAN, LARRY MULLINS, and MARCHY SCHWARTZ. GENE KENNEDY was present to act as Manager in his old capacity. I am sure you will agree that this would comprise a rather representative football team. 

JOE SUTTNER, erst\vhile pole vaulter, 1919-20, can be reached through the State Corporation Com­missioner's office, Los Angeles. Joe is still telling California business men and promoters how much of other people's money they can spend. Among the former "Greats" -whose classes I do not recall at the present time we find BILL COOK, HOOT KING, and TOM HEARN getting to­gether for a good old time "buU-fest" in true subway manner. 
When it comes to oldtimers wc have DR. JOHN P. NAUGHTON and THOMAS J. MCKEON, who went to Notre Dame so long ago that it i.^; difficult to remember their class. In any event they were present when Notre Dame first started playing football and comprise a portion of those of the time of the JEWETTS, CULLINANS, and the rest of the "Greats," who frequented Notre Dame when there was only one lake, and I have never been able to figure out what that lake was, St. Mary's or St. Joe. 
Another old timer about the class of 1900, as near as I can figure out, is NORBERT SAVAY. He was re­cently defeated for the office of Dif­trict Attorney of Los Angeles County. 
FRANK MARSHALL, known as "Monk" Marshall, is now affiliated with the Equitable Life Insurance Company, affording some competi­tion to ED ASHE, who lets the Aetna Life Insurance have the benefit of his sen'ices (for a consideration, of course). 
We hear from DICK SWIFT occa­sionally. He is practicing law in Davenport, although he reports that he must do his banking in Chicago. It seems that every time Dick col­lected a fee and deposited it in the Davenport bank, the bank failed. 
DR. FRANK BRESLIN, of the class of 1912, is of the opinion that the present generation is not as virile and strong as the boys used to be. Dr. Breslin is the company sur­geon for the Cudahy Packing Com­pany of California, as well as of the Standard Oil Company. Whenever a future Notre Dame prospect is in need of a job we call on Frank Breslin to use his influence. • The last four boys, however, who have secured jobs through Dr. Breslin turned out to be "softies," it seems, since they lasted only one day. Dr. Breslin doesn't mind getting the boys jobs when they are available; however, he doesn't like U. S. C. to get the idea that Notre Dame football players can last only one day working for a living. 
1921 Just when some mysterious forces in the Class were about to impeach AL CUSICK, that old psychologist 
comes through with a reform wave that sweeps him back into office with the confidence of the constituency. His platform appears in print here for the first time. Dear Jim: 
I know I full well deserve the rep­utation of being the world's worst class secretary, as adjudged by past performances. It seems for the last several years, particularly, I've been precipitated into certain business re­sponsibilities which have all but crowded out of my life the really im­portant things, such as, keeping con­tact ^\ith friends, etc. However, I promise you that this year I shall do my level best to make amends, and to this end will write personal letters to at least a half dozen graduates of my class each month, in the hope that I can thereby recruit for you a good supply of notes for the forthcoming issues of the ALUMNUS. 
Previously, I have sent out form letters. This year I am going to make each one personal, and-1 know that the fine crowd that left the cam­pus with me in '21 will respond in the way I hope, and I know you hope, they will. 
The above letter was misplaced in the files and is a month late, Al notes on it, and he expects to stop off on a trip to a French Lick Convention any day now. But he got in in time to have his name on the Ballot. 
1922 

The depression is far worse than we first believed. We remember the good old days when the boys thought nothing of investing in a postage stamp to send on a few notes about our classmates. • But all this was changed with the advent of the three cent postage stamp. Our information these days comes via the grape vine route, and the system being not so efficient as the one in vogue at Sing Sing, our news, like cigarettes with­out the highly advertised cellophane wrapper, is somewhat stale. Yet stale or otherwise we make our mod­est offering. 
FATHER GEORGE FISCHER, C.S.C., who is temporarily minister­ing to the faithful in the Rochester diocese, is assistant at Ithaca, N. Y. and chaplain of Cornell University. There are about 450 undergraduates in the watchful care of Father George. 
Last month we said that JERRY JONES of Dixon, 111. was the father of a baby daughter. JERRY DDCON who hails from the same town, al­though he now lives in Chicago, ap­parently was disturbed at the pub­licity given to his fellow townsman for Dix announces with great fer­vor that a coming lawyer of great repute recently arrived at the Dixon home. We congratulate Mr. and Mrs. 
Dixon most heartily, and we hoi)e the boy in time becomes a part of Notre Dame history, but why bring that up now that Dad has other things on his mind besides seding the boy to col­lege. 
MORRIE SMITH and BUCK SHAW who are coaching Santa Clara's football team are rejoicing over the splendid victory that their team scored over the University of California. 
Auburn ablv coached by RODGE KILEY and CHET WYNNE is one of the few undefeated teams in the South. 
HARRY MEHRE at Georgia has only a few veterans back this year and hence development will be slow, but the Old Horse is a keen coach and he will have a good team before the season is over. 
It would be almost treason if he neglected to send words of confidence to our own HUNK ANDERSON who is battling to weld a team to­gether to take the measure of Army and Southern Cal. this year. In ad­dition Hunk is confronted with the task of sending Pittsburgh and Northwestern down the sMds. Quite a task. Hunk, but it is not impos­sible. Give them the works, Old Timer, and if you hit a snag, here is wishing you luck on the next try. 
What has become of: 
JIM JONES' extensive law library —the book he used to bring, to class, and the book he would leave in Sorin to conceal the dollar bill set aside for a rainy day. 
The canes once sported by the lawyers of 1922. 
SYLVESTER STEINLE'S rat catching record. 
JOHN PAUL'S first baseman's mitt. 
CHUCK FOLEY'S corduroys and pipe. 
GENE KENNEDY'S walrus mus­tache. 
STEVE CARMODY'S gold tooth. 
TUFFY HART'S poetrv book. 
HORSE GAFFNEY'S slicker. 
DUICE GONZALEZ' Hudson. 
DENNY'S Orchestra. 
VAN DOLLMAN. 
GOTTRY. 
OTT. 
1923 

TONY GORMAN writes from 1824 Clinton Ave., Alameda, Calif., inquir­ing about putting a nephew in school. 
"I'm looking forward to a breath­taking ride on the Hill St. Car im­mediately A. D. (after hte depres­sion). In the meantime give my best to all the profs who proved such gal­lant opponents during my more or less determined struggle for scholas­tic salvation." 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
It's a lousy trick, no less, to take away the joy that comes from telling a fellow man about an operation, but the following, taken from a clipping, is too interesting to wait for KEVIN CURKAN to make the rounds. 
It was three o'clock Wednesday morning, July 29, and there were few sounds about the ship as the C. P. R-liner Duchess of Bedford cleaved the waters of mid-ocean on her way to Montreal. A slight vibration indi­cated that the vessel's powerful en­gines still pulsed tirelessly, and the shadowy gloom of passageways, decks and public rooms was relieved only by a few night lights. 
Suddenly there was a clanging of bells in the depths of the. engine hold. "Half speed ahead" flashed the engine room signal, and then, a little later, "Stop." The night engineers looked at each other questionably as they obeyed the orders. What was wrong, they wondered, as the big ship slowly slackened speed? The weather was fairly calm, and the few aw^ake on the boat hardly noticed the roll as the ship lay idle in the trough. 
Lights glittered from certain win­dows on the main deck, and inside the windows white-robed figures flit­ted about completing preparations that were hurried, yet deft and sure. They had to be deft and sure, for upon the success of the major sur­gical operation that was about to be performed depended the life of the young man just being placed on the operating table. An unsuspected and suddenly developing ulcer had per­forated the stomach lining, necessi­tating surgical attention immediately. 
Two exceptionally competent sur­geons were passengers on the Bed­ford, one a Toronto man, and they willingly agreed to help the ship'.s doctor when he roused them. 
When the Bedford docked at Mon­treal on Saturday, the patient was out of danger but still very ill, and was rushed to the Montreal General Hospital to convalesce. And those who had taken part in that tense drama in mid-ocean at the dead of night shook hands and hoped they would meet again as they went their respective ways. One of them, Dr. 
F. C. Marlow^, of 647 Broadview Ave­nue, Toronto, returned to relate his unusual experience to his friends. 
Dr. Marlow, who is assistant to the chief physician of the Toronto police force and a prominent practising sur­geon, officiated as senior surgeon at the mid-ocean operation. He was re­turning to Canada on the Bedford after doing post-graduate in England. 
Associated with him at the opera­tion was Dr. William Beggs, an Eng­lish surgeon from the Liverpool dis­trict on his way to a holiday in Can­ada, while Dr. J. J. Benny of Mon­treal, the ship's doctor, acted as an anaesthetist. 
Additional assistance was given by a trained nurse on board the ship, and by A. R. Bazin, son of Dr. A. 
T. Bazin, noted Montreal surgeon. It was a doubly unusual experience for young Bazin. The man on the table was his chum, K. E. Curran of Kan­sas City, with whom he was return­ing to this continent after a course of medical study at Edinburgh Uni­versity, where they had become close friends. 
IvARL BARR writes that he e.K­pects to make the 1500-mile trip to see the N. D.-Southem Cal. game. 
EDWARD RYAN, a student in '19­'20, wrote from Bay City, Texas, re­cently for copies of "The Victory March." 
1924 Dear Jim: Your justly deserved reprimand in 
the current ALUMNUS brought me up standing — and weeping for my sins. How often I have promised to do better and never did. Once more I am striking my breast and promis­ing. I am going to set aside an eve­ning near the 20th of the Month— everj' month—and devote it to James Armstrong. Perhaps that would be a good idea for you to develop—a na­tional James Armstrong Night when all Alumni Secretaries would be thinking of you and writing to you. You could sit home that night before your crystal ball and hold silent and prayerful communication with your aides throughout the country. 
Now I do want to help, Jim. I have been terribly busy for many months. As you will see from this letterhead we have just to-day completed a pro­gram of activities for Fifth Avenue which has gone over even greater than I anticipated. This Fifth Ave­nue Week movement was started by us last Spring, and plans for it have been formulating ever since. It is really a return to Quality buying campaign, and starting as a local movement has spread over the entire country. It was bad enough to keep up with the demands in our own sec­tion here, but when requests for in­formation began to come in from other cities I had to stay up late nights. Then our own newspapers came after me. They plunged into the idea with great enthusiasm, and for weeks I have been holding con­ferences with them every day. Each put out a Special Fifth Avenue Sec­tion— one of them 24 pages. The 
Sun, Times, World Telegram, Herald-Tribune, American, Journal, Daily Neivs, etc. etc., all wanted something for themselves, and of course, I had to dig it up. One newspaper man came in one dull Monday morning and 

said he wanted 56 columns of news before Friday night, and he got it! Another wanted pictures of Fifth Avenue 25 years ago — exactly 25 years ago, to go into a special 12 page section of news, and he got them. In addition I got back into the publishing business by putting out a 120 page shopping guide of Fifth Avenue, filled with news and pictures of the avenue, and inciden­tally some 75 pages of Advertising! We made our press date on it, but I can't figure out yet how it was done. We distributed 50,000 copies in Great­er New York, and the book made a big hit with advertisers and readers alike. Only a vacation in July last during which Mrs. Hayes and myself took a jaunt through the White Mountains and wound up in Canada, playing golf here and there and everywhere put me in shape for this grind. Now I'm getting away again next week for another little trip (lucky fellow) and hope to recover all my energy on some New England golf courses where falling leaves and following breezes will help my score somewhat. 
The New York City club is plan­ning for a big year. We have had several Board of Director's meetings recently and the enthusiasm has been splendid. The plans for the Fall and winter will no doubt come to vou direct from JACK KENNEY. 
CHARLIE ROBRECHT is a fre­quent caller and visitor. It is good to have him around because he has lots of enthusiasm. He is living in New Jersey, but does most of his work in New York City. That's the trouble with a lot of people here. They make all their money over here in the city and pay taxes in New Jer­sey. Gunboats should be built to keep them out. Charlie is in the insurance business and along with many others believes that the next ten years hold great promise for that business. I know Charlie will make good. 
CHARLIE DEBARRY is back in town. He has taken over an apart­ment at 1142 Madison Avenue, and will have as his companion there TED BERKERY class of '27 my cousin, who after taking his degree at Notre Dame studied law at Ford­ham, has passed the Bar and is now locating his own office — on or near Fifth Avenue, of course! Charlie'=i apartment was and will be a favorite spot for all us New Yorkers. Ho divides his time between architecture, interior decorating, and designing automobiles, but 111 be frank in say­ing that interior decoration is what often draws most of us to his apart­ment. His parties are classics! 
FRANK DUFFICY I see occasion­ally but he is always so busy that even a ten o'clock call (at night) finds him in his office. I am going to get after him to dig up some. news for me" because he is in frequent touch with JOHN McIvENNA, BUD STAPLETON, TIM MURPHY, and others who know Broadway where Frank's office is located, better than they do Fifth Avenue where I hold forth. 
Someone told me that HAROLD THOMPSON was last heard of on his way to Cologne to study—or complete his studies in medicine. Any infor­mation will be appreciated. His re­turn to New York should be heralded, because we New Yorkers have pride in the receptions we extend our dis­tinguished visitors. For many years I was an accredited "ship waver." I met more trains, saw more people off on boats, met them when they re­turned, and dashed them around the town, then the Chairman of the Mayor's Committee for the Reception of Distinguished Guests. There is a technique about this sort of thing that only comes with long practice, for example, the selection of the handkerchief that has the greatest visibility from a ship's deck, how to disregard "all ashore" signals, etc. etc. So if you know of anyone com­ing back from a European jaunt just let me know. I would like to be fore­waiTied so that I can be out of town! 
I had a flying visit from BROTHER ALAN some time ago which I en­joyed greatly. Only sorry he couldn't stay longer because I wanted to go over some of the old time Brownson Hall "Fight Nights," and really find out from him whether his experiences as a "fight promoter" gave Jack Kearns and Tex Rickard the idea or not. 
JACK SCALLAN who doesn't seem to be able to get a lower berth to New York, even though he helps run the Pullman Company, was one of Brother Alan's stars, and even though I helped train Jack, and often sec­onded him in his comer I can't figure out whether Brother Alan was build­ing him up for a "smash" or whether he was just a stable fighter from Brownson Hall. From what I have heard from this one and that one. Jack would have difficulty pulling a comeback. The old weight has him, and I don't believe he could keep up with some of the young fellows just coming up in the game. "Inside fat" they say is what stopped Bennie Leonard's attempt to recapture his crown, but some spy told me that Jack's is not so "inside." 
Many will remember AL FICKS, who was on one of Notre Dame's fa­mous track teams. Al lives within a block of me in Jackson Heights, but like all New Yorkers we seldom see each other except occasionally on the way to work in the morning, and then neither of us are in a conversational mood. Al, it was announced recent­ly, won the Jackson Heights Golf Club Championship after a tough elimination contest. We have a fine club out there, one of the sportiest in the district, and Al's victory shows him up as a real player. He took over the finals in great style. 
Others will remember JACK BUT­LER, formerly of St. Louis, who now lives and works in Palm Beach, (if you can call living and working in Palm Beach just living and work-). He was in town about a month ago and I talked with him on the tele­phone. Jack entertained royally when Mrs. Hayes and yours truly were on their honeymoon in Florida last year and his hospitality is something not soon to be forgotten. He follows Notre Dame teams closely, but as an old monogram man and star will not concede anything to the new teams. 
Jim, this ramble has not stuck very closely to the class of '24, but that isn't my fault. If some of the boys will write me a letter and give me the news of their doings, and the news of those around them, I'll try to give you something better next month. .A.t any rate, hold a column or two for the class of '24 from now on. If you should decide to rate the classes according to their importance, I know you will hold the front cover for us. 
Yours, Jim Hayes, '24. 
1925 

Charlie Donahue is back on the New York Daily News, ha\ing re­turned from the Chicago Tribune which, by the way, owns the New-York Daily Neivs. He has grown taller and bigger in every way. He looks like a philosopher and acts it too. Best of all, in the midst of the depression, he knows how to laugh and treats most subjects with a little touch of humor. 
RAY CUNNINGHAM writes from Detroit where he and Mrs. Cunning­ham are now living at 19915 Strat­ford Road, in Sherwood Forest, which is appropriate while Ray continue."; to prey on the rich for the Russell Studios. Roy says that JOHN P. HURLEY and Mrs. Hurley are happy in a beautifully furnished apartment (he would be, Ray adds, with a whole furniture factory to pick from.) BEN IvESTING won the county surveyor's nomination and JOHN CAREY the state representative candidacy. 
FRANK McSORLEY and OATS BYRNES were among the Pittsburgh visitors who saw an eyeful at the Car­negie Tech game. 
J. L. McNAMEE is one of those lucky enough to have made the Pitt game. Mac says he hopes to visit 
N. D. during this year and follows the Class through that old asset, the ALUMNUS. ' He has been traveling a great deal and is now located in New York City, but retains the home­stead address, 817 William St, Par­kersburg, W. Va. 
Word from the white lights has it that JOHN ANTHONY BARTLEY, the bald ex-blond. New Yorker ex-Montanan, is patrolling the great white way for Prentice and Slepach, at 25 Broadway. 
BILL KRIDER, now attomey-at­law, 320 Bulkley Bldg., Cleveland, writes to express an appreciated en­joyment of the last ALUMNUS. Bill has been among those paving the alumni hell with the good intentions of coming back to the campus. Bill was a "lifer" and was mentioning several of the old characters of his day, DICK DE CORPS and DIZ VIGNOS, among others whom Father Gallagan knew well. 
Search any empty Pullmans you see on your community sidings. If you find SCALLAN notify the Edi­tor. 
1926 

Alphabetically, Armstrong comes before Asclepius. But not with the cradle-crammer who brings Demo­cratic votes into the world instead of neglecting his work for good old '26. .\nd, of course, it would not be in keeping with the best traditions of Class Secretaries for anyone else in the Class to give birth to a few ideas for this column, sans the official ob­stetrician. 
Word does come, however, from a few of the boys in divers ways and places. 
WALTER POHLMEYER, St. Loui.s, is now a certified public accountant, having passed the examinations suc­cessfully in all subjects during the summer. 
EDDIE FALLON may have been doing Old Doc Hayes a conscious favor when he wrote the following: Dear Jim: 
"The delay in this remittance has been caused by an illness which caused my absence from the office for three months. Please do not "red­mark" the club's credit on this ac­count. 
"The football season is now at hand and is stirring some interest in and around the Club. Perhaps DOC GEL­SON will tell you that John Balfe is Chairman of the Committee in charge of Football Activities and will be as­sisted by BILL REID, DOC and mv­self. 
"JOE and TOM BURKE'S Mother (they were of the Class of 1925 and '26 respectively) has been quite ill but returned from the hospital yes­terday with some signs of improve­ment but not completely recovered, however. 
"I learned this morning that some time last week TOM and JAKE PUE­CELL'S Father died very suddenly in his office. DAN BRADLEY of the Class of 1928 or '29 has received his 
M. D. license and is now looking for patients. He must have procured one as he paid his dues the other day, to our local Club. 
"About three weeks ago I had the extreme pleasure of seeing FATHER GALLAGAN in New York and had a lovely visit. He seems pretty confi­dent that in a little while, Notre Dame will be a subsidiary of St. Thomas. 
"JOE LENAHAN is travelling around the country a la covered wagon days with the exception that the wagon is horseless. BILL REID and JIM D\^^YER are at present lay­ing plans for their foot-ball schedule which includes Michigan State, Pur­due, C. U., and possibly Army-Notre Dame the latter part of the season. 
"LES GRADY is confident that his son is going to be a Scribbler. They caught him playing with a pencil the other day. CHARLIE JUDGE must be in Africa and EDDIE BYRNE has to leave the Board of Governors' meetings early because of family con­ditions. 

"I saw Judge ALBERT DOYLE and Mrs. Doyle at a dinner party in the home of his and Les Grady's "in­laws." In other words, at JOHN LEDDY'S home at Elmhurst. It was my first night out and a worth-while one, after my siege. 
"If I do not stop writing I never will make any money and if I don't make any money I never will be able to pay my dues to the Alumni Asso­ciation of which I am very conscious. 
With best regards to ART HALEY, HERB JONES and yourself." 
BILL KAVANAUGH and RED SHEA, '23, were on hand for the Carnegie Tech game. 
1927 

JOHN D. O'LOUGHLIN, Bingham­ton, N. Y., attorney in the Marine Midland Bldg., is going to leave the legal tangles of the community long enough to see the old Army game. John says that ED O'BRIEN, e.\-'27, is a candidate for the N. Y. State Senate on the Democratic ticket. 
JOE GREELEY, who took his M. A. in the Boy Guidance of '27, is get­ting a bigger blow these days than the Gulf coast of Florida. Following is a recent account: 
J. J. Greeley, A.B. M.A., Ph.D., whose latest book: "The Rise of The Boys' Club Movement in America," an original and exhaustive sociologi­cal survey starting with the 17th cen­tury, is now actively engaged as a member of the National Democratic Speaker's Bureau, in New York. His pioneer contribution in Sociology will be reviewed in the November issue of the Journal of Educational Sociology. This marks the author's second work in that particular field, the former being: "A Sur\'ey of The Safety Edu­cational Movement." 
As an alumnus of five widely scat­tered American Universities, four prep schools, and an all-around ath­lete, Greeley brings an unusually in­teresting background to the speaker's platform. Numbered among his col­legiate alma mater are: Villanova (Pa.); Catholic Uni. (Washington, 
D. C); Uni. of Notre Dame, (Ind.) Uni. of Louisville (Ky.) and New York Uni. His prep schools are: Hallowell (Me.); Cony (Augusta, (Me.); Kent's Hill, (Me.) and Roch­ester, (N. H.) 
A native of Hallowell, Me., he is well known in Ft. Wayne, Ind., where he directed the $1,000,000 Community Center, and in Louisville, Chicago, and Wisconsin as a leader in civic and social work. For two years the author was Publicity Director of the Boys' Clubs of America, in the New York headquarters. 
As one of the younger college men entering into politics, Greeley's debut during the coming campaign will be followed with interest by a large circle of friends in various sections of the country. At the present time Greeley is closely associated with John Law. famous captain of the Championship Notre Dame eleven of 1929, now a candidate for the New York Assembly, and once again in the national limelight due to his splendid success in acting as volun­teer coach for the Sing Sing football squad. 
HENRY J. DILLON has resigned his position—0 rare Hank Dillon—as metallurgist with Inland Steel and has gone with his family to Califor­nia where he will begin studying for an M. D. at Stanford. 
HENRY WATTS EICHER has been flooding the Office with litera­ture from the Dem. Nat. Cora., stage and screen division, of which he is Comptroller. Watts directed the foot-light destiny of the campaign from Salon C of the Hotel Asotr. 
1928 

TOM LIEB was in Tucson, Ariz., recently with his powerful Loyola eleven from Los Angeles. While in Tucson he saw ED COLLINS and LARRY WHITE who are making encouraging gains against bad health, and seem, Tom writes, in the best of spirits with the old N. D. fight. V. P. HENGESBACH is living with Larry at 1710 East 2nd St. Ed's address is 830 N. 3rd Ave. 
(Some dope from Buckley, late, had to be inserted on page 51.) 
1929 

TONY KOPECKY was at one of the early games, looking his usual suave self. 
BOB KIRBY, the big life and death man of Indianapolis, is lecturer of the Indianapolis Council, K. of C. 
1930 Dear Jim: I hope that I am on time with this contribution. We all enjoyed your last issue and will be anxious for the next to come around. 
JACK NOWERY sent me a note from Houston, Texas. He is now in the land department of the United Gas System, which he reminds me is the largest natural gas company in the world. Jack has been trying all the branches of the oil business and he aims to be a big gas and oil man soon. He is still single and living at 1702 North Blvd. 
From Davenport, Iowa the good news leaks out that MURRAY HICICEY LEY has been appointed manager of the Hickey Bros. Stores in Washington and Toledo. He will be in complete charge of these branches of this vast retail cigar or­ganization. I am sure he will uphold the reputation he won for himself in Davenport. 
WALTER DONNELLY is a mem­ber of the new Law firm of Markey, Donnelly and Cunningham which re­cently opened offices in the Bank of Manhattan Bldg. in New York. 
TOM LANTRY and BILL WALSH have recently taken positions with the John C. McNamara Organization here. 
CON CAREY and WARREN FOGEL have obtained their law de­grees from Fordham University and are now preparing to take the New York Bar examinations. 
This is all for today. However, I must remind you HENRY WATTS EICHER, Comptroller, of the Stage and Screen Division of the National Democratic Party, has moved in with us at 1055 Park Ave. 
Regards to all, 
Bemie Conroy. 

EDWARD B. SMITH, former bas­ketball star, is a candidate for the prosecutor's job in St. Joseph County, running against JOHN RAAB, '18. 
LOtnS STETTLER, Cleveland, was in the week-end of the Haskell game and gave us a lot of dope on the big blow-out Cleveland is planning for the Navy game. 
1931 

RALPH DALTON is probably preaching prohibition, from the of­fices of the Coca-Cola company. 
ED FRANK, suitably accompanied, was a visitor in the Office Carnegie Tech week-end, from Joliet. 
Once again it is my pleasant duty to tell tales on my classmates, "Out of School and in School." 
1932 

From the looks of things, it seems that the great majority of the boys are further pursuing curricular en­deavors. What a scholarly group, or are they reluctant to go to work? Positions are so scarce, I guess, school is a good place to be right now. Who knows? Perhaps this de­pression will have a beneficial effect upon our generation, as after the crisis is over a well-educated coterie of intellectuals will emerge. (That's about the only argument the Repub­licans have not advanced in defense of their tactics.) Now to work. 
As LEO SCHIAVONE used to say, "Now take Boston for instance. That's the center of culture." All right Leo, we'll go way down east and visit the Beantown. "GENE CON­NELLY tells me that at M. I. T. they serve tea and crackers at four, after a seminar in Engineering. Truly cultural. They always did go for their "tea parties" in that "village." I wonder if Gene stuck to tea the week-end he met VINCE WHELAN and a young lady from Elmhurst? Vince Whelan is at Han'ard Medical School. JIM HIGGINS is at JI. I. T. with Gene, as is JOHN BLEEG. JOHN POPERA is with Vince. 
Harvard Lawyers? Who hasn't heard of them ? We have them in the personages of "PADDY" DRISCOLL, KEN McLEOD, NICK ICALMES, who made a flying trip by car from Colorado to get to this "center of culture," and JIM LEWIS. Best re­gards to Prof. Williston. FRANK O'KANE is also at Han-ard law school. 
Leaving our lawyers to their de­murring, let's go downtown to Tuft's. Here we have TOM TARASOVIC studying medicine. DON McMAN-US is at the Harvard school of busi­ness administration. FRANK REIL­LY is living in Boston. Why don't you fellows get together and have a little "tea party"? 
I think we've covered Boston rather well. We have several minutes to catch the Merchants Limited to Little Old New York. Would any of you New Yorkers be surprised to hear that BENNY MIICES is at N. Y. U.? He is, and I hope he stays there un­til I get there. When our train stopped at New Haven I had a chance to talk to BOB O'CONNELL for sev­eral minutes. He was in our class 
here but transferred to Yale. We next run into WILLIE FITZGERALD at Columbia. He is ^vith GEORGE CULLINAN. One in the Law school and the other in the Journalism school. RED JACKSON is at Long Island medical school and now and then gets in a game of golf with BILL SLADER who lives in Forest Hills, which town I have visited "sev­eral" times. J A C K W E R N E R is attending a medical school also. GEORGE DUQUETTE is up around Sleepy Hollow. George had a callous on his thumb from turning off his alarm clock. JIM McCANN is very close to New Rochelle College for girls. TOM TARASOVIC tells me JOE RUSSO and ED O'MAHONiT are holding down the Park city while he is out of town. Some say Joe is at Columbia. Up in Hyannis VINCE O'NEIL is assisting his dad. Across the Hudson we find AL CAPTOR and "SPIKE" CONTI playing profession­al football. BILL MURPHY is study­ing law in Newark and working for a lawyer. SAL BONTEMPO is prob­ably with him. "WEE" HARRING­TON is probably at Georgetown and ARMOUR and COOPER are busy m Carteret and Reading, respectively. 
Back to New York and we find in the Woolworth Building, with the City Hall Park for a campus, WIL­LIE WEIR, WILLIE WILLIGAN (alliteration), JACK RUDD, JOHN ROSS, Jiai WARD, who sells insur­ance, and JIM O'CONNOR studying law at Fordham. A few blocks far­ther downtown is JACK JORDAN learning the "ins and outs" of Wail Street. ED RHATIG.4.N, erstivhile New Yorker, is now very near, at, on, or about River Forest, Illinois. BART O'HAR.A will probably be up to New York from Catholic Univ. to see GEORGE BODEN et. al. very soon. Lots of us will be in New York for the Army game. Let's make it Fri­day night at the Penn grill. Any­time from 10 on — ? BOB LAW is close by in Wilkes-Barre and ARCH DONOHUE is at 5400 Market St. :n Philly. He's never home tho'. 
Let's start for the wide open spaces. After a pleasant ride up the Hudson we finally come to Utica. At 23 Beverly Place in this town Olive receives mail from Hank. How about that Gene? I wonder if Dick and Fran know? On to Syracuse where we find the Pres. of "prezez" at Syr­acuse Univ. preparing to enter Buf­falo Universitv. "It seems one day CHARLEY HITZELBERGER was coming from Syracuse to Utica—" remember that story? Utica, that reminds me VINNY FLETCHER is managing several gas stations for his brother. JOE FULLEM is working for Fletcher in one of these stations. JOHN RUSH and HUGH GL.ANCY are around 'town. PHIL CONBOY of Auburn is pushing Roosevelt for prseident. Next stop Rochester. Here we find BILL JONES and TOM BURNS. Both are in town. In Buf­falo we find "JABLES" PERONE coaching the punch drunk singer. Buffalo is missing one of its citizens as BILL HALL is out selling razor blade sharpeners. In Erie we find "CHICK" BAUMAN and TOM STEELE. Certainly would be glad to hear from them. JOHN COLLINS is studying law in Cleveland and JOHN CONNOLLY is doing likewise in Toledo. Up at the University of Michigan we find RUSS LAWLER studying law, and in Detroit "BUST­ER" MORTENSON is selling autos. His pal BOB TINLEY is at Creigh­ton Medical school. FANDY RAS­CHID is at the University of Detroit, and NICK RUFFING is at Western Reserve. BOB PROCTOR of Elkhart is back at Notre Dame. We'd better get up or we'll not be able to get oif at South Bend. 
Here we find FRANK O'MALLEY teaching history to the boys. Frank has some good jokes for his classes. He will get his master's degree. MIKE MOORE one of the "famous seven" is also at N. D. Another of the "famous seven" JACK HOGAN is going to school in Chicago. Others working for their master's degree are JACK H.A.MILTON and JACK SCANLON. ED O'MALLEY is sec­retary for PAT M.ANION, '22, who is quite busy these days. JOE Mc-CABE is in N. D. law school besides editing the Juggler. JOHN BARRY is engineering here. JOE PETRITZ is carrying on in the Publicity De­partment, and ED BRITZ is working on the Football Review. JOHN SU­DOL is also working for a master's degree. When the dean calls the roll in Evidence there are a lot of names familiar to you all. "JAKE" BAUER left for a track meet just the other day. Jake had to move on campus so that he could run. "SPIICE" DILL­MAN is still a great kidder. LEN DUNN, JIM DUBBS and JOE JUDGE are attempting to show the Dean why it is 0. K. to use carbon copies for briefs. JOE FOLEY is a cum laude lawyer. He has crutches instead of a cane due to a football injury. He'll be all right as always. TOM GATELY is trying to get JOE LAUGHLIN to raise a mustache also. (JIM REIDY please note. The foam is so much better strained.) LOUIE­GENTILE is next on the roll call followed by yours truly. LOUIS JACKSON, our South Bend class­mate, is always very heavily laden with books. He is seated next to our popular, unassuming HENRY CLAY JOHNSON. The K. K. K.'s are made up of KEMPTER. KILBURGER, ICELLY and BILL KIRBY. Bill Kir­by, as you probably know, is our offi­cial news boy. He was landing JOE McCABE'S Jiiggler the other day. "Uncle" JOE LAUGHLIN, by virtue 
Novembei-1932

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
of the fact that his brother Dick, '28, is the father of a Dick, Jr., is kept busy at school and in Walkover's. Every day, as ever, JOHN LAUGH­N A is looking for CHARLIE MAN­NDC or vice-versa. FRANK MOR­LEY is still with us as are TOM Mc-KEVITT, MYRON MURPHY and "KING" NELSON. Never try to finess past Tom, he alwavs has the "king." DICK O'DONNELL, OR­ZECHOWSKI and TORBORG came next. BOB WATERSON ends the roll call, and from Niles, Michigan we hear that JOHN BURNS still goes with Mary. SAM LOCION has his old job back holding the 10-yard marker at the football games. 
HARRY STEGMAN is still hurry­ing to and fro, and "MEGS" NA­POLITANO is teaching in the physi­cal ed. school. HARRY BEHRMAN and GEORGE KOZAK are still in company. JACK HAMILTON is tak­ing a master's degree course, as are GEORGE HENNION and JOE TOUSSAINT. JIM CARIDEO, JACK SCANLON, REGIS McNAMARA, "SQUIRT" ICEANEY, et. al. are still in attendance. BILL CASS and "WHITEY" CROXALL are still in town. 
Among the slow-but-sure five year men we first encounter "SMOKY GOLIATH" COYNE, honorary presi­dent. Smoky claims Al Smith double-crossed Hoover. FRANK MADDEN, of the sunshine citv, is rooming with 
J. N., W. B., R. B., J. P., P. H., G. K., et. al. Ask Frank about it. He's keeping it a secret. M.^DDEN, BUCICLEY, HOWE, McMONIGLE, SCHIEBLER, and the rest of the boys are still patrolling their beats along Michigan Avenue. BOB NES­BITT is reminiscing with B.4RNEY 

.POWERS, GERALD FITZGERALD and "SPINNER" KRANS over in Corby. Not much doing there this year. JIM DEVLIN tells us it's quite dead. TIGHE WOODS enjoyed his eighth, or is it ninth, Cotillion im­mensely the other night. Tighe had a tough job proving he was a stu­dent. Perhaps that's because Doro­thy was not with him. The old gray mare ain't what he used to be. In Walsh Hall we find FRED SNITE and GENE CALHOUN. They also believe in doing things thoroughly. "KEWPIE" SHERMAN, our erst­while classmate, is now a full-fledged junior. He saves carfare bv living in town. DONALTY, MATOUSEK and GIORGIO are holding down the fort in the house nearest the campus. There's a welcome mat on the front porch. TOM MAHAFFEY will earn his N. D. this year. 
Before we go to Chicago we'll cover the men who are close to us. JIM GLEASON'S concept of infor­mality is a sweatshirt and sneakers. She went him one better—^beach pa­jamas. CARWIN is married and 
settled peaceably in Mishawaka. PAUL BELDEN is busily building for his father in Canton, Ohio. PAUL MURPHY was last heard of in Colorado gathering peaches for the unemployed. RAY PFEIPFER and JOHN BANNON are teaching in a high school in Louisville. ASMAN and KEANEY are in medical school in Louisville. PAUL HALLINAN is studying for the priesthood in Cleve­land. MUvE CRAWFORD is at med­ical school in St. Louis. DICK FA­BRYCICI is idle in the state of Wis­consin. ANDY McGUAN was seen in Chicago with a school teacher. How about it, Andy? ED HART is at Wisconsin Law school. JACK SCANLON and KEG KEGOWICZ were here for a football game, as was ED FITCH. CHUCK DOERR went in as a boy scout. GEORGE MAY­WALT was seen at the Carnegie game and tells us he keeps busy. RAY FOX is playing hand ball or golf in North or South Dakota. JOE BL.4.NEY is running a gas station in Kalamazoo, and JOHNNIE MUL­HERN quit doing the same some­where near Chicago. 
CLEM THEISEN ducked from the floor of the South Bend Inn cleverly just before the orchestra played a few strains of "Here Comes the Bride." NED IG3LLY is putting on minstrels in Wilmette with FRAN OELERICH. JOHN MULHALL is studying law at Oklahoma U. TOM DUFFY is mak­ing a tour of the Southwest. MAUR­ICE GRIFFIN is in Minneapolis. NEIL HURLEY is working on the Chicago Tribune and JOE LOPKER is an artist on the College Humor staff. JIM REIDY is in Flint, Mich­igan. ED KOLSKI is feeling well enough to expect to come down for the N. U. game. "Uncle" LEO SCHIAVONE wouldn't buy his young nephew a -hot-dog at one of the games. Leo is studying law in Chi­cago. SAL BONTEMPO is assistant campaign manager for a prospective congressman. JOE McIvEAN is work­ing for his dad at home. MYLES MULLEN is at St. John's in Brook­lyn. RAY BROWN is working for his brother in Lancaster, Ohio, and GERRY KLEIN is working for his dad in Akron. 
To conclude I will annex a letter from GEORGE HIGGINS covering Chicago rather completely, and an anonjTnous letter from Philadelphia. Hear that ED MELCHIONE has be­come adept at Whistling in the Dark. He and JOHN GOSTISHA drove down for the Carnegie game. IKE TERRY is in his element at N. U. He knows more sorority passwords than vou can shake a stick at. "GABE" MORAN and JOHN ICRA­MER are working on the Hoover dam. Rumor has it an E. M. is wearing an 
N. D. '32 pin. JACK HOGAN says he doesn't think he's married. JACK MATTHEWS and the former ran out of town on us after the Tech game. George mentions that JIM CAR­MODY used to write The Week, and we haven't seen a good one since last June. TIGHE WOODS may take it over and put The Scholastic on a pay­ing basis. 

ERNIE HECHINGER, MARTY HECKARD, KELLY POWERS and CLAY DUERR were a few of those seen at the Haskell game. Clay, who is at present working for his dad in Benton Harbor, was here for the Car­negie game also. BILL MAY'WALT, who is employed by a magazine con­cern in Wisconsin," DICK CANNON, of Milwaukee, CHARLES SPANGEN­BURG, of Elmhurst, Illinois, and LEN CONDON, of Rockford, Illinois, were around the campus the week­end of the Carnegie Tech game. 
Word comes from the Dean's office that JOSEPH SITEK and MAL­COLM TROMBLEY passed the bar exam, in Michigan, as did WALTER BERNARD in Ohio, and HENRY HORICA in Indiana. 
JIM SIMMONS is working in the oil fields of Texas. 
Ex-Grand Knight JAMES COL­LINS is working for the Great North-em Milling Co. in Great Falls, Mont. The new alumni headquarters in Chicago are located at 92nd and Bal­'timore. JACK GEDDES in attend­
ance. Our honorary classmate OWEN D. YOUNG is doing well. Yours truly. Herb Giorgio. 
October 16, 1932 Dear Herb, 
Realizing that a lawyer doesn't have too little to do and that, even if he had, some of the rest of us ought to take a little of the expense off his hands, of helping the gang to keep together, these few data are sent with a personal greeting and wishes for a big year. 
BILL COONEY (out in February, last) is cosmeticianing with Elmo, of Philadelphia. 
LEO CLARK, late of Atlantic City, now adding to the breezes of the Windy City, has all the gangsters of the West Side taking the air, as pro­bation ofScer in that allegedly bullet-riddled area. He may, in the not too remote future, again gaze at the blue waves of the Atlantic, with the only one beside him. 
ART HIMBERT, "R Goos" from Rock Island, has disported himself in the select circles of Fort Madison, Iowa, on some few occasions this summer. 
"DUTCH" UHLMYER, the other half of the Tri-Cities aggregation, is with the Peoples Power in his native heath, and even got to Muscatine (where, in Iowa, is that, Baden, and where are you?). 
JIM TROTTER is serving as bal­
last for the Great Lakes and Dock 
in the straits of Ste. Marie (a 
"Sault" goes ahead of the "Ste.") 
LEW PSENCIK looms as the next 
mayor of Smithville (there is such 
a place in Texas), thanks to the suc­
cess of his campaigning for the Hon. 
"Ma", (and his training on the third 
floor of Walsh). 
TOM MAGE E is snoopervising 
parolees, from the Glen Mills Schools, 
in the black belt of the Quaker City. 
Word comes from the staid old vil­
lage that '32's five additions to its 
Alumni Club are expected to add 
youth's enthusiasm to the wisdom of 
the older members, who gave a greet­
ing-party and get-together to the 
former on October G, last. 
VINCE DONAHUE is Mastering in business, this winter, at Penn, after enjoying the Olympics, last August, with TERRY DILLON. Didn't know morticianing took such preparation. 
JOE DALSEY has been hiding in the depths of CoUingswood, and CLIFF PROEDEHL misses his St. Mary's. (Maybe it will be Mrs. some day.). 
NORB CROWE is picking potatoes (do such things in Indiana?) in deah ol' Lafayette. Wonder if he's gotten down to Indianapolis yet. 
See you at the Army? (Tell PHIL 
CONBOY I'll look for him down by 
Madelon's). At the Penn Grill the 
night before the game. 
Strait Stuff. 
The si.xth of October. 

Dear Herb, 
It would seem to be a bit strange for almost anyone else to write a let­ter after so long a lapse of time, but I have learned, from my law books and my teachers at Kent that the Statute of Limitations has not as yet run out, so I hasten to be legally conscientious. I believe that I prom­ised sometime last May to forward you all the information concerning the Chicago members of the class of 1932, so without further ado, and ^vithout worry concerning the amount of this fancy stationery I may have to use, I proceed to work. 
At Kent, in addition to JIM O'SHAUGHNESSY, HACK WILSON and myself, are GUS EDWARDS, JIM IGOE, PHIL DUNLEAVY, JIM BOSCO, JERRY DESMOND and BILL KERRIGAN. VERN KNOX, who presidented his junior class, is senior lavdng at the same institution. JIM IGOE, in addition to his law work, is putting the Inland Litho­graphing Company on its feet. O'SHAUGHNESSY is collecting straw votes for the Daily Times. WILSON is a big oil man from Sin­clair. The rest of us are still wait­ing for happy days to return with the potential Democratic landslide. BOB PURCELL and ED O'MALLEY are the only out-of-towners we have with 
us at Kent, but they seem to take to 
the big city very- nicely. 
VINCE CAVANAUGH, LEO 
SCHIAVONE, JERRY REIDY and 
BARRY O'KEEFE are chorusing "To 
the Sheriff of Cook County, g-r-e-e-t­
i-n-g-s" at De Paul. Leo has become 
a citizen of Chicago, thus making one 
more vote for Roosevelt in Cook 
County. I don't believe that any of 
these gentlemen are eating the fruits 
of employment, although O'Keefe 
may be peddling coal for his father. 
FRANK McGEE has selected John 
Marshall College as his fountain of 
Law and DICK LAMBERT, when not 
pumping gas, listens in at North­
western. 
JIM CARMODY, who once \vrote The Week and portrayed Irish police sergeants, is pumping gas, I haven't seen him but JERRY REIDY informs me that he has at last succeeded in putting on enough weight to appear manly. Jerry is also adding to his weight in preparation for a long, cold winter. 
ED RHATIGAN was in town for quite a while this summer, dividing his time between the circulation de­partment of the Herald and Examiner and a very nice person in River Forest. It mav happen. A letter from JIM O'CONNOR tells me that he is demurring at Fordham in the company of WILLIE WEIR, our can­didate for vice-president, and a fev.' others whose names I can't remember. 
BUDD DYNIEWICZ, who success­fully managed an incorrigible ball committee, is using the same social tactics for the Illinois Relief Com­mission. When I apply for relief I want Budd to handle my case. I heard somewhere that his chubby room-mate ED MELCHIONE, is at Northwestern, but I think anyone who wants him will be able to find him on a golf course or handball court. 
I haven't heard from any other Chicago boys, but I expect to as I go along, and you may be sure that I'll do my best to forward it as I re­ceive it. If I make a poor Winchell— well, this is your job anyway. 
I enjoyed the last ALUMNUS and all the scandal. How are all the re­turning lawj-ers ? McKEVITT, MIKE MURPHY, KOLSKI, and the rest? How's the Dean and the judge and re-statement and contracts and Ho­mer? Have you heard from BON­TEMPO or MURPHY or any of the others who left as suddenlv as I did last June 5th ? I suppose DONALTY and NESBITT and the rest of you post-graduates are having one hell of a time on and off the campus. Well, contrary to all my expectations I'd like to be down there with you. 
I haven't much else to offer except my hope that you are healthy, wealthy and w^ise and that all of my friends down there are the same. I'm sure the rest of our mutual ac­quaintances in Chicago wish you the best of luck. So far you've done a fine job as class secretary and I'm sure you will continue to perform nobly if you don't allow this letter to influence you to any great extent. Congratulations. 
Herb, I wish that, on behalf of the Chicago thirty-twoers, you would ex­tend to KITTY GORMAN and his Chicago Club our best wishes for a happy and prosperous year. Quite naturally, we're interested in the club since it furnished us with many ex­citable, or should I say debatable, evenings. We may drop down some time for refreshments. 
Well, this is finally the end. Take good care of the boys down there, get plenty of rest, and eat lots of vegetables, and maybe someday you'll be big and strong like JIM CAR­MODY and me. 
Until the Haskell game of 1955, 
George A. Biggins, 
2313 South Oakley Avenue, 
Chicago. 

Who ever heard of an Alumnus 
who did not expect to send his son through college 
9 

INSURE IT and SECURE IT, even if you are not here to see the program through. 
A mutual dividend-paying 

company, 70 years in business. 
Among the strongest in re­
serves and assets. Paid policy­

holders in 1931 over 87 million 
dollars. Offers every phase of 
personal and family protec­
tion, including the insuring of 
a college education; also annu­
ities and the Group forms for 
firms and corporations. 
For information telephone 

your John Hancock agent or 
write for copy of pamphlet, 

"My Financud Problems." 
JOHN HANCOCK iNQumr Bosun 197 Clarendon Street, Boston. Mass. 
Please send me a copy of 
"My Financial Problems." 

Nai 
City— 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Glen Smith, '27. 10-1 Oakdalc Ave.. Akron. President: C. J. McGuckin. •23. Medina 
^ Road. Akron. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D. Barr>% '97. S2 W. Pennington St.. Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil. '25. 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassncr. '14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C.. '02, Dac­ca. President; Rev. J. J. Henessey, C.S.C., Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Charles Croivley. '21, 40 Mill St., Dor­chester, Mass, President: James R. Doo­ley. '22. 363 Main St., North Andover. Mass., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.^ME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy. '27. 36 Liberty St.. Bridgeport. Conn, (temporary chairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Martin Ryan. "23. 21 Orchard Place. But falo. President: C. J. Irwin. Jr.. '29. 325 Washincton St.. Buffalo. Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. '23. 15521 Vine Ave.. Har\ey. 111.. Presi­dent ; William R. Dooley. '26. 245 Lawn-dale Ave., Hammond, Ind.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITOL DISTRICT—John J. Moichan. President: 
F. L. Duquette. '23. 1074 Glenwood Blvd.. Schenectady. N. Y., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO — James Ronan, *26, 4306 W. North Ave., Chicago, President: Robert D. Stephen, '27, 5906 N. Hcnnitage St.. Chicago, Sec 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —E. C. McHueh, '09, P. O. Box 429. President: W. D. Morrissey. "26. Cath­olic Charities Bureau. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —Thomas F. Byrne. '23. 750 Huron Rd.. President; Qayton G. Leroux. 3356 Daleford Road. Heights Branch. Cleve­land. Secrctaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran-field. '13. State Bldg.. 1200 Main Street, Springfield. Mass.. President: James A. Curry, '14. 647 Main St.. Hartford. Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON — Robert Ohmer. Dayton. President: An­drew A. Aman. Jr.. '30, 210 Lexington Ave., Daj-ton. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey. '23. 1515 Grant St.. Presi­dent: O. L. Hough. '27. 1575 Race St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22. Des Moines Catholic College. President: Charles H. Lynch, '23. 1429 - 13th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT — John E. Moore. '03, Third Floor, General Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich., President: Paul J. Dooley, '25, 143 Pallister, Detroit, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn, EI. '12, 
161) R. L Ave., N. W., Washington, President: James D. Hayes, 5115 Eighth St., N. W., Washington, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE, PA.— Richard D. Daley, '17. Erie Daily Times. President; Thomas Barber, '24, 416 Newman St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman. '30, Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Hanold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Office. City Hall. Green Bay. Wis.. Presi­dent ; Levi A. Gcniessc. '24, 510 Minahan Bldg.. Green Bay. Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH.—George E. Ludwig. '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W.. President: Ray­mond J. Bonini. '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr., 
S. E., Secretary.. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON, OHIO—M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St., President: Marc A. Fiehrer. '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich.. President: Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette. Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter, '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston, Texas, President: T. F. Green, Jr., '27, 407 Sterling Bldg., Houston, Texas, Secretary-Treasurer. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDLVNAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby, '29, 1901 N. Merid­ian, Indianapolis, President; John T. Rocap, '30, Fidelity Trust Bldg., In­dianapolis, Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF JOLIET—Wil­liam Bossingham, '25. 403 Buell St.', .lolict. 111.. President: Ed King. 301 Ruby St.. Joliet, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS aT Y —Daniel F. Foley. '23. 25 Wint Ave.. Ft. Leavenworth. Kansas. President: John JSL Dagan. '27, 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City, Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebert, '30. U. of Kansas. Wich­ita. President: Dan Welchons. '30. 306 
E. 13th St. Hutchinson. Kansas. Sec'y. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— Frank B. Bloemer. Jr.. 126 E. Jefferson. Louisville. President: H. R. Dompf. '23. 400 M. E. Taylor Bldg.. Louisville. Sec 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —^\ViIliam B. Chawgo. '31. Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co.. 303 Graham Bldg., Aurora. Ill,, Secretary pro tem-
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOS ANGELES —John W. Wadden. '07. 7107 Sunset Blvd.. President: Laurence A. Moore, '29, 1465 W. 50th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '83, 307 Camp St.. New Orleans. President: Cyp­rian A. Sporl. Jr., '23, Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, "24. c/o Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila, President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr., 1378 Union Ave., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —Willi.-un J. Redden, '14, 3525 W. North Ave., Milwaukee, President: A. P. Galda­
•bini, 1521 W. Kilboum Ave.. Milwaukee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen, '96, 435 Clark St., Helena, President: James B. O'Flynn, '11. Great Falls. Mont., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Williams, Jr., '29, 106 Gal­latin Rd., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASICA— Gerald J. Barret. '22. 315 S. 37th St.. Omaha, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY William Carter, '27, 68 Fourth St., South Orange, N. J., President: Joseph Nulty, '27, 1056 Arlington Ave., Plainfield, N. J., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—John E. Kenncy, '21. care Poster WTieeler Corp,. 165 Broadway. New York City. President: J. Norbert Gclson. '26. 1201 Troy Ave.. Brooklyn. 
N. Y., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA —John S. Mclnnes. '22. 1855 Sacramento Street. San Francisco, President: Mark Krcutzcr, '24, 311 Cali­fornia St., San Francisco, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. O'Neil, "83, Army Recruiting Station, Second and Washington Sts., Portland, President: L. Bernard Macnab, *25, Terminal Sales Bldg.. Portland. Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—Raj-mond J. Eichcniaub. '15. Hoster Realty Bldg.. Columbus. Presi­dent. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea, o. s., '09, 902 Ex­change NatL Bank. Tulsa, President: Leo A. Schumacher, '13, King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers' of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA—Robert Reagan. '24. 502 Cecil St.. Canonsburg, Pa.,' President: Ham* H. Francis, Jr., '30, 15 Spring Ave., Ard­more. Pa., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —Dr. Joseph F. Duane, '99, 418 Jeffer­son Bldg., President: John A. Noppen­berger, 223 Heading Ave., SecretaO'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —Thomas Ashe. '31. 226 Glen Ellj-n Way. Rochester. President: Raymond D. Downs, '26. 46 Clinton Ave., S., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Shenvood Dixon. '20, 120 E. First St., Dbcon, 111., President: J. Wil­lard Jones, '25, 122 Crawford Ave., Dixon, m.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Edward J. Meehan, '20, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind.. President: Timothy Benitz. '31, 1341 
E. Wayne, N., South Bend, Ind., Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo Sutliffe, '24, 2701 So. Grand. Presi­dent: Robert Hcllrung. '30. 7214 North-moor Drive, University City, Mo., Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

List of Class Secretaries Local Alumni Clubs 
(Continued) 

NOTRE DA5IE CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. Harrington. '25, Continental Mortgage Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—George 
L. Kinney, "20, 1919 S. State St.. Syra­

cuse, President: Vincent Brown, *23, 1314 James St., Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEXAS—Harold Tynan. '27. 240 
E. Huisacke Ave., San Antonio, Texas. President: Kirwin J. Williams. *2S, 105 
E. Rosewood. San Antonio, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St.. President: Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO— John P. Hurley, '25, 1420 Colling­wdod Ave., Toledo. President: Fred A. Sprengcr, 3129 Kimball Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CITIES—Richard B. Swift, '20, Kohl Bldg., Davenport, la.. President: Henry 
M. McCullough, '20, 26 McCullough Bldg., Davenport, la.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CI­TIES—Allen H. Maliar, '28, 53 Arch St., Johnson City, New York, President: John D. O'Loughlin. 'o.s.. 24, 506-7 People's Trust Company Bldg., Bing­hamton, N. Y., Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— Leon Moes. '26, 1230 W. Minnehaha Parkway, Minneapolis, Minn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond K. Brady, '24, 206 Kcams Bldg., Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har­becke, '19, 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Sec. 
NOTRE D,VME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind., President: Peter Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. Bethlehem. Pa.. Temporary Chair­man: Charles B. McOermott, '27, Allen­town, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA — James S. Devlin, 
•10, 7741 Forbes St.. Pittsburgh. Presi­dent: John B. Reardon. '22. 715 Union Bank Bldg.. Pittsburgh. Pa., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon, 
O.S. '02: Stimson Bldg., Seattle, Wash., President: E. Morris Starrett. '14-'21. El. '23. 801 Washington St., Port Town­send, Wash., Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —George A. Gaftney. '9S-'99. 54 Park PI.. Waterbury. Conn.. President: James 
M. Monnghan. '27. 44 Ayer St., Water­bury, Conn., Secretari*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley, '11. Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co., Wheeling, Presi­dent: George Snrgus, '28, 2111 Belmont. Bcllaire, Ohio, Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister IL Agnes Alma. O. P.. Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson, Newburgh. New York, President: Miss Rose Stef­faniak. 161 Walnut St., Coldwatcr, Mich., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr., '25. 1018 First National Bank, President: Norman Smith, '24, 126 Roslyn Dr.. Secretary. 
Year Name 
Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher 1880-85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson 1886 Michael O. Bums 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier 1888 John L. Heineman 1889 P. E. Burke 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell 1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 1896 William P. Burns 1897 Rev. John MacNamara 1808 Wm. C. Kegler 1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 1900 John W. Eggeman 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1902 C. C. Mitchell 1903 Francis P. Burke 1904 Robert Proctor 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 1906 Thomas A. Lally 1907 T. Paul McGannon 1908 Frank X. Cull 1909 E. P. Cleary 1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1911 Fred L. Steers 1912 Benjamin J. Kaiser 1913 James R. Devitt 1914 Frank H. Hayes 1915 James E. Sanford 1916 Timothy P. Galvin 1917 John U. Riley 1918 John A. Lcmmer 1919 Clarence Bader 1920 Leo B. Ward 1921 Alden J. Cusick 1922 Gerald Ashe 1923 Paul Castner 1924 James F. Hayes 1925 John W. Scallan 1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 1927 Edmund DeClercq 1928 Louis Buckley 1929 Joseph McNamara 1930 Bernard W. Conroy 1931 John E. Boland 1932 Herbert Giorgio 
Address 
Fitchburg, Mass. 
Circleville, Ohio 

338 S. Second St., Hamilton. Ohio 
Ludingtnn, Michigan 
Connersville, Indiana 301 Camp St., New Orleans. La. 
7 University Ave., Minneapolis, Minnesota 
The New York Times, New York City 
860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 
327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City, Indiana St. Joseph's Sanitarium. Mt. Clemens, Mich, (temporary) 9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati, Ohio. 
418 Jefferson Bldg.. Peoria, Illinois 
1201 First National Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
1300, 139 N. Dark St, Chicago. Illinois 110 S. Dearborn St.. Box 3. Chicago, III. 
904 Tnist Company Bldg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Monger Bldg.. Elkhart. Indiana 
10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Illinois 811-13 Paulsen Bldg.. Spokane, Washington 
Bar Bldg., 36 W. 44th St., New York City 
Buckley Bldg., Clevelan'd, Ohio 
P. O. Box 356. Momence, Blinois 527 Beall Ave.. Wooster, Ohio 1635 First National Bank Bldg.. Chicago. Illinois 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave.. Chicago, Illinois 1033 S. Linden Ave., Highland Park. 111. 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond, Indiana Box 86, (^basset, Mass. 1110-Sth Ave., S., Escanaba, Michigan 650 Pierce St., Gary, Indiana 1012 Black Bldg.. Los Angeles, California 1 Park Ave., New York City 1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester. New York 313 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend, Indiana Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State Bldg., N. Y. City Pullman Co., 79 E. Adams St.. Chicago. HI. 38 N. 12th St, Newark, New Jersey 8126 Drexel Blvd., Chicago, Illinois 718 E. Cferby St, South Bend, Indiana 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Indiana 1055 Park Ave., New York City 3624 Chestnut St. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania Notre Dame. Indian.'u 
District Governors 
District  Name  
I  Frank E. Hering  
H  John W. Costello  
III  John P. Murphy  
IV  William J. Redden  
V  Don P. O'Keefe  
VI  John H. Neeson  
VII  Ambrose O'Connell  
VIII  Gerald A. Ashe  
IX  Hon. Wm. J. Granfield  
X  Hilton Goodwyn  
XI  Harry Mehrc  
XII  W. N. Rosier  
Xn i  Twomey Clifford  
XIV  Arthur T. Simpson  
XV  John L. Corley  
XVI  Walter Duncan  
XVII  Hon. Albert J. Galen  
XVIII  Raymond M. Humphreys  
XIX  Terence B. Cosgrove  
XX  Dr. J. M. Toner  
XXI  Bmmett Lenihan  
XXII  C. C. Fitzgerald  

Address 

Dean Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
57 E. 21st St. Chicigo, 111. Terminal Tower, Cleveland. Ohio. 3525 West North Ave., Milwaukee, Wis. 
Chev. Motor Co., Genoml Motors Bldg., Detroit, Mich. 
City Hall Annex. Philadelphia, Pa. 
1600 Broadway, New York City. 
1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester, New York. 1200 Main St.. Springfield, Mass. 2110 East Grace St. Richmond. Va. University of Georgia. Athens, Ga. 1001 Heybum Bldg., Louisville, Ky. 
Camden, Arkansas 208 Southwestern Life Bldg., DalLis. Texas. 4463 Lindell. St. Louis, Missouri. 658 First St, La Salle, 111. 435 Clark St. Helena. Mont. 1423 Rjice St.. Denver. Colo. Los Angeles Athletic Qub. Los Angeles. Calif. 3197 Sixteenth St.. San Francisco. Calif. County-City Bldg., Seattle. Wash. La Metnopolitana. 242. Havana. Cuba. 
© 1932, LiGOETT S: MYIES TOBACCO CO. 
a 

Oailing, Sailing, over the Jjounding Main 
IJV OVER eighty countries .. . no matter where you may go, by land or by sea or by air... you can always buy Chesterfields. 
Their reputation for IMildness and Better Taste is international. Just ask for the ciga­rette that satisfies. 
The cigarette that's MILDER The cigarette that TASTES BETTER 











