The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
December, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
COMMENT 
Men-y Christmas! Hap2)ij Neiv Year! 

—y-The ALUMNUS apologizes for its late appearance, but it isn't every month that the Edi­tor has to wait for a National Championship, plan two na­tional conventions, sell 1200 banquet tickets, go to New York, and spend two big week­ends in Chicago. 
With the year half gone, the Association is sufficiently well along to e:ctend cordial greet­ings of the season. But unless the promises in the various fields are fulfilled, the Editor reserves the right of with­drawal. 
If all Living Endowment sub­scriptions are paid, and if the Clubs come through 100%— 
If the long list of delinquent dues is shortened appreciablj'— 
If the Clubs make Universal Notre Dame Night world-wide in its scope— 
If the Class Secretaries re­port regularly— 
If Class Eeunions in June are Bigger and Better— 
If members who move report their changed addresses— 
If those who wrote such abu­sive lettei-s during the football season will come back within Fahrenheit range— 
••s 

IN TfilS IXXUE 
All-Americans .Frontispiece 
Glory Comes Again to Notre Dame_ 131 Nominating Committees Appointed-135 Contributions to Living Endowment (Clubs)-137 April 20th ^ 138 Editorial 139 Coaching the Irish, by John W. Hartman, '32_ 141 "Eat, Drink and Be Merry—" 145 Athletics 148 "Where There's A Will—" :__ 151 "Around and About the Campus," by John Kiener, '32_ _152 
The maf^zine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of 'the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of S5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUAINUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of ATarch 3, 1897. All correspondence' should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
MEaiBE2t OF THE AJIERICAN ALUMN I COUNCIL MEJIBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMBS E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
HARLEY L . MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EEV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President FRANK E . HERING, '98 ---President HON. WILLIAM J. GRANFIELD, '13 Vice-President 

JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25  Secretary  
WALTER DUNXAN, '12  ­ ­ ­ Treasurer  
GEORGE M . MAYPOLE, '03  Director  
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 ­T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 PETER P. MCELLIGOTT, '02 JOHN W . EGGEMAN, '00  Director Director Director {ex officio) Director  

iiitiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiP'iiiiiiiii 

B-
If the present officers of the If Rock's health holds its championship form— 
Association continue to render the outstanding service to the If Santa Claus drops another 
Association and aid to the 
G. K. Chesterton and another 

Alumni Office that has marked 
Frank Carideo down our aca­

the first half of their adminis­
demic and athletic chimneys 

ti-ation— Then— 
A If the University retains its Men'!/ Clmstmas confidence and enthusiasm in and a the present alumni program— Vei-y Happy New Year. 


Some of The 1930 All-American Selections 
MABCHMOXT SCHWARTZ 
Halfback 
NEA SERVICE'S 
Fesler, Ohio State, end SinRton. Alabama, tackle Koch, Ba>'lor, puard TlckjiGr, Har\'ard. center Woodworth, Northwestern, miard Lubcatovich, Wisconsin, tackle Arbelbide. So. Calif., end Carideo. Notre bamc. Quarterback Schwartz, Notre Dame, Halfback Dodd, Tennessee, halfback Pinckert, So. Calif., fullback 
CAGLE'S I. N. S. 
Baker, North\\"estem, end Price, Army, tackle Linehan, Yale, euard Roberts, Tulane, center Wisniewski, Fordham, suard Sington, Alabama, tackle Arbelbide, So. Calif., end Carideo. Notre Dame. Quarterback Viviano. Cornell, halfback Pinckert, So. Calif., halfback Macaluso. Colgate, fullback 
I^WRENCE PERRY'S 
Dalrymple, Tulane, end 
Van Bibber, Purdue, tackle Ticknor, Harvard, guard Hein. "Wash. State, center 
Baker, So. Calif., guard 
Sin^on, Alabama, tackle Fesler. Ohio State, end Carideo. Notre Dame, Quarterback Sdiwartz, Notre Dame, halfback Duffield, So. Calif., halfback Russell. Northwestern, fullback 

CHRISTY WALSH'S—ALL-AMERICAN BOARD'S 
(Rockne, Warner, Tad Jones and Alexander) 
FIRST TEAMS ONLY Fesler, Ohio State, end Sington, Alabama, tackle Ticknor, Harvard, center Beckett, California, guard Hein, Wash. State, tackle Dalrymple, Tulane, end Carideo, Notre Dame, Quarterback Brill, Notre Dame, Halfback Pinckert, So. Calif., halfback Russell, Northwestern, fullback 

(Hon. Mention: Conley, Vlk, O'Brien, Culver, Yarr, Schwartz, Metzger, Kassis and MuUins.) 
BERTRAM METZGER 
Guard 
X. Y. SUN'S Baker, Northwestern, end Edwards. Wash. State, tackle Koch. Baylor, guard Ticknor. Han'ard. center Baker, So. Calif., guard Sington, Alabama, tackle Fesler, Ohio State, end 
Carideo, Notre Dame. Quarterback Schwartz, Notre Dame, halfback 

N. Y. EVENING POST'S Pinckert. So. Calif., halfback JIacaluso. Colgate, fullback 
Arbelbide. So. Calif., end Ahlshoff, WashinKton State, tackle Woodworth, Northwestern, guard N. Y. JOURNAL'S Siano, FonUiam. center 
Dalr>'mple, Tulane, end Wisniewski, Fordham, guard Lubratovich, Wis,, tackle Sington, Alabama, tackle Linehan, Yale, guard MofTett, Geor^a. end Ticknor, Har\*ard. center Carideo. Notre Dame. Quarterback Wisniewski. Fordham. guard Suther. Alabama, halfback Sington, Alabama, tackle Macaluso. Colgate, halfback Fesler, Ohio State, end Ru&sell, Northwestern, fullback Carideo. Notre Dame. Quarterback 

Schwartz, Notre Dame halfback 
Pinckert. So. Calif., halfback 
Russell, Northwestern, fullback 
KING FEATURES' 

ASSOCIATED PRESS'S Dalyrymple. Tulane, end 
Baker. Northwestern, end Sington. Alabama, tackle 
Sington. Alabama, tackle Baker, So. Calif., guard 
Mctzecr. Notre Dame. Guard Hein, Wash. State, center Ticknor, Hari'ard. center Beckett, Calif., guard Woodworth, Northwestern, guard Lubratovich, Wis., tackle Edwards, Wash. State, tackle Fesler, O. S. XJ.. end Fesler. O. S. TJ., end Carideo. Notre Dame. Quarterback Carideo. Notre Dame. Quarterback Schwartz, Notre Dame, halfback Schwartz. Notre Dame, halfback 
MARTIN BRILL 

Pinckert. So. Calif., halfback Pinckert. So. Calif., halfback Macaluso. Colgate, fullback Halfback Macaluso. Colgate, fullback 


THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume IX. DECEMBEE, 1930 No. 4 
Glory Comes Again to Notre Dame 
FootballjTeam Wins Third National Championship in Seven Seasons,­Tributes Flow From Al l Sides,- Rockne Lauded. 
"Gangway for God" has been one of the impressive lines in a current New York success. The season just passed has been marked by much the same forceful adaptation of reverence on the nation's football fields, "Gang­way for Notre Dame." 
The ALUMNUS was once compli­mented very highly for its com­mendable restraint concerning Notre Dame's success in football. We trust that our critics will not be confounded if we yield this place of honor in the book to unprecedented achievement. That this achievement is in football detracts nothing from its merits. 
Knute Rockne, '14, "Hunk" Ander­son, '22, Jack Chevigny, '29, John "Ike" Voedisch, '28, and Tim MojTii­han, '30, the all-alumni coaching staff of Notre Dame, opened the 1930 sea­son facing a series of question marks. One was the schedule. Another was Rock's health. .A. third was the spring practice results. A fourth was the replacements in the line. These, and subsequent problems, were far from negligible. 
That Notre Dame went through an undefeated season, answering all these questions and putting, in fact, ex­clamation marks in their places, is probably the high spot in team 
B ..0 
NATIONAL CH.4MPIONS 
1929-1930 
Notre Dame 20, So. Methodist 14 
Notre Dame 26, Navy 2 
Notre Dame 21, Carnegie Tech 6 
Notre Dame 35, Pittsburgh 19 
Notre Dame 27, Indiana 0 
Notre Dame 60, Pennsylvania 20 
Notre Dame 28, Drake 7 
Notre Dame 14, Northwestern 0 
Notre Dame 7, Arciy 6 
Notre Dame 27, So. California 0 
265 74 i 
achievement in the history of foot­ball. 

The schedule tells some of the story. It tells all that is necessary. But surely, under this new champion­ship banner, a little longer treatment will be pardoned. 
PAUL "BUCKY" O'COXXOR 

Last month the ALUMNUS sum­marized the first half of the "Suicide Schedule." Then came Marty Brill's Homecoming, the Pennsylvania game, in Philadelphia on Nov. 8. The score of 60-20 was the greatest that a Rockne team has run up against a major opponent. Pennsylvania was stunned hy the fury and at the same time the cool precision of the Notre Dame attack. Brill was the comet of Franklin field. He carried the ball ten times, three times running for touchdowns. Brill's defensive work 
Dame team backed Brill brilliantly, and the scoring column contained the. names of Carideo, Schwartz, Mullins, O'Connor and Koken. Joe Savoldi scored his last touchdown for Notre Dame in this game. Philadelphia was also Capt. Tom Conley's home town, and both Brill and Conley can prob­ably hold public ofiice there at will. Pennsylvania rallied in the last half to score three touchdowns through a relaxed Notre Dame third team. Notre Dame gained 567 yards against Penn­sylvania's 73. Carideo kicked five of six points after touchdown. 
"Bulldogs" Tenacious 

The bite of the Drake Bulldog is worse than his bark. In fact you can hardly make the public hereabouts Drake-conscious. But the boys on the team will tell you that Ossie Solem is one of the smartest coaches in the game;, that Vankoten is a sweet ball carrier; that Don Carlos is a bad hombre at center, and a few other points that the public doesn't notice. But to the spectators the Drake game was very much worth while w-atching. It was the last game in the new^ Sta­dium. Notre Dame made only 15 first 
Q fINDIVIDUAL POINT 1 SCORING i 
1 
2 Schwartz, Ih = Savoldi, fb Carideo, qb 
= 
= Brill, rh i O'Connor, rh. fb = Mullins, fb : Hanley, fb 
= 
Koken, Ih = Iiukats, Ih i Staab, fb 
5 • 
Kosky, le : ' Conley, re 
s 
Jaslcwich, qb = Crohin, qb 
1 
TD PT TtL : 9 0 54 i 8 0 48 = 2 27 39 5 6 0 36 s 3 0 18 1 3 0 18 
: 
2 0 12 z 
2 0 12 i 1 0 6 i 1 0 6 ; 1 0 6 i 1 0 6 
: 
0 3 3 
s 
0 1 -1 = 
1
39 31 265 

is of long-standing fame. The Notre Bii 
IIIKQ 

downs while Drake made 11. Notre Dame, however, gained 387 yards to Drake's 139. Drake's passing was effective, the Bulldogs completing 8 of 16 for a total yardage of 114. Notre Dame completed 3 of 8 for 69 yards. 
Xorthwestem Toughest 
In retrospect, few people will deny that Northwestern gave Notre Dame its worst day. For fifty-three min­utes the Irish were not only stopped but were for the most part leaning slightly backwards in the face of the terrific Ncrthwestern attack. During this time, how-ever, the Notre Dame team was strong enough to stop two Northwestern scoring efforts when they were dangerously close and ter­rifically pushed. In the last seven minutes Schwartz suddenly found a hole that had been in the making all afternoon and dashed 28 yards for a touchdown. Dan Hanley scored on the third play after an intercepted lateral pass immediately afterward. Carideo's kicking was probably the greatest of the season. He scored both points after touchdown and time after time kicked out of bounds inside North-western's ten-yard line to the serious embarrassment of the Big Ten cham­pions. Bert Metzger's game at guard against the driving Northwestern giants was marvelous, no less. There are still a few who say that North­western desen'ed better than the 14-0 score. Statistics of the game show that it was close and bitterly fought, but as Rockne said at one time, the object of the game is to get the ball over the goal line. 
Notre Dame made nine first do\vns to Northwestem's six. The Wildcats 
ED KOSKY, End 
DAX HANLEY, Fullback 
traveled further, 114 yards from scrimmage to Notre Dame's 90, but they didn't reach the desired terminal in spite of the long trip. Notre Dame rained 60 yards on 4 passes out of 12 attempted. The effectiveness of the 
N. D. pass defense is apparent in the nine incompleted attempts to pass by Northwestern, one of which was inter­cepted by Hanley and led directly to the second N. D. score. Notre Dame was penalized 50 yards, Northwestern 
30, both teams losing yards at critical points. 
Army Mule Stubborn 
Chicago and the Middle West had heard since 1913 of the great Army-Notre Dame game. All of the tradi­tion of fight, of uncertainty, of great football, was more than justified in the struggle at Soldier Field on Nov. 29 under conditions that were more to the Navy's liking. In a pouring rain, on a hopelessly muddy field, the stub­bom Army mule kicked and plunged against a relentless Notre Dame at­tack until 56 precious minutes had argued strongly for a 0-0 tie. But neither team in this annual classic dies until the final gun, and those 100,000 drenched fans who waited were justified in four minutes of fire­works that defied rain and mud to dazzle the vast crowd. On the off-tackle play that is the favorite of Marchmont Schwartz, a play that op­posing scouts must know by heart, the execution finally attuned the neces­sary perfection and Schwartz ploughed 
through the mud for 55 yards to a touchdown. That fatal minute of re­laxation that can hardly help coming after such achievement at the end of so long and bitter a period almost cost Notre Dame a tie. King, Army end, blocked a punt of Carideo's that would ordinarily have ended the game. He fell on the ball for a touchdown that threw a panic into the still cele­brating Notre Dame following. But the Notre Dame team was not to be 
•.-~ir—,^^ denied its victory. The 
'^^i^S' kick for the point after 
: \ '""' touchdown which Army 
^ tried desperately to con­vert was smothered by what seemed to be the entire Notre Dame line. It was a tight squeeze and filled with everything that has made the Army-Notre Dame series the classic of American football. 
Carideo's handling of the soggy ball was outstanding. He averaged 42 yards on 14 punts and converted the 
point after touchdown for what 
proved to be the winning 
score. A place kick, when 
it looked as though a 
touchdown was impossible, 
suffered from mud and 
water and went wide. 
Notre Dame made only 5 first downs, the Army 3. Notre Dame gained 188 yards from scrimmage to .A.rmy's 63. Notre Dame completed one of 8 passes for a gain of 3 yards. .A.rmy com­pleted one of 3 passes for no gain. Notre Dame was penalized 20 yards. Army 45. 
A Fitting Climax 
It semed incredible to Notre Dame fans that the 1930 team had com­pleted nine victorious games in the terrific schedule. Very few of them asked the team to complete the sea­son with a victory against the berserk Trojans of Southern California. It 
B'iiiiiaiiittiiita 
"O 
STATISTICS OF THE I SEASON I 
I First Downs: 1 I Notre Dame, 130. | I Opponents, 75. | 
I Yds. Gained from Scrimmage: | I Notre Dame, 3109. | i Opponents, 961. I 
I Forward Passes Completed: i I Notre Dame, 24 of 93 for 437 | I yards. I 
I Opponents, 46 of 127 for 399 | I yards. \ 
I Penalties: \ I Notre Dame, 421 yards. i I Opponents, 200 yards. i 
B• IMMMIMIDII) • IIIMIDUMIa) ..Q 

CULVER, Tackle 

seemed too much and the ever-present sparks of hope were nourished under cover while the world of football prac­tically conceded Southern California with its unequalled scoring orgies on the Pacific coast this final victory over Notre Dame. One small group of men refused to concede the victory. This group was headed by Knute Rockne. • The minority report was de­livered on the afternoon of Dec. 6 in the stadium at Los .4.ngeles and com­pletely swung over the 90,000 spec­tators, including instructed delegates. 
Never was an upset so final, so overwhelming and so cooly brought about. As Warren Brown put it, it is undoubtedly the last time that any Notre Dame team will ever be the underdog on the Pacific Coast. Cer­tainly in the crushing of California, Stanford and Washington, the Trojans had cause for confidence. But the game tells the story. 
Notre Dame "opened up" and gave the native and visiting sons as per­fect an exhibition of the fine points of football as any of them had ever expected to see in one afternoon. 
The first touchdown came on a short pass from Schwartz to Carideo who carried it ten yards, after Notre Dame had recovered a Trojan fumble. The turn of events momentarily stunned the Califomians. Duffield was caught yards behind his line of scrimmage and made a beautiful quick kick that rolled over the Notre Dame goal line and looked like a great break for Southern California. It be­came a boomerang a moment later when O'Connor took a lateral pass from Schwartz on the first play, side­stepped three Trojan backfield aces and ran 80 yards for the second touch­down. From then on Southern Cali­fornia was just another team. Two more marches led to two more touch­downs and penalties saved Troy from another pair of scores that emerged from the Wooden Horsemen. O'Con­nor, who was shifted to fullback at Tucson on the way out, after a season at right half, Hanley, who came to the fore when Savoldi left school, and Lukats, a substitute half, were prob­ably surprises to Aubrey Devine, Southern California's scout for Notre Dame. They were certainly surprises to most Notre Dame fans. Whether or not they were complete surprises rests behind the Great Rock Face. 
The second successive national championship, nineteen consecutive victories against the best the country offers, the third undisputed title in seven seasons, — these have the foot­ball world mar\'eling. 
Lawrence Perry, prominent sports writer, in a copyright article in the South Bend Tribune, attributes much of the Notre Dame success to religion, and throughout his writings this Fall, strengthened by a visit to the campus, he has echoed that deeper Notre Dame tone that Notre Dame men know so well. Perry says in part: "The mys­terious element which inspires and in­forms Notre Dame play is a great underlying motive, an organic im­pulse that transcends sport and in­volves all that is highest in the human soul. Notre Dame football, to be ex­plicit, is inspired by a cause, and that cause is their religion. By this is not meant a fiery, indomitable impulse to prove that it takes a Roman Catholic football outfit to play the best foot­ball there is. . Not at all. The im­pulse is deeper than that . . . These Notre Dame players are expressing upon the football field what religion means to them individually. Every game they play is built upon a sub­structure of religious aspiration. This is an age of sophistication, so called. So there will be many, no doubt, who will smile at the above. Well, let not such as these be too sure in their amusement. There is a lot more in life, in football, than your sophisticate dreams of in his philosophy. There are stupendous things in life which are not seen, which cannot be gripped and felt." 

524,000 ATTEND GAMES 

According to figures compiled by a newspaper service, more than a half million persons saw Notre Dame play this fall. The following figures seem fairly accurate: 
So. Methodist  22,000  
..  Navy  .45,000  
Camegie Tech  32,000  

KTJBTH, Tackle 
Pittsburgh 75,000 Indiana 15,000 Pennsylvania _80,000 Drake 15,000 Northwestern 45,000 Array .110,000 So. California 85,000 
Season Total 524,000 

The average cost per game was ap­proximately four dollars, which runs the gross gate to approximately two million dollars. 
There is nothing in this to excite football critics. The old law of supply and demand continues to operate. In­diana and Drake, in the above col­umn, indicate that the public can re­strain itself on occasion. As for the expenditure on football tickets, one has only to look at it as a healthful ama­teur sport which draws millions of people out of doors on bracing Fall afternoons (-4rmy game excepted), and compare the expenditures with those made annually for tobacco, cos­metics, theatres, etc., to see that the quid pro quo of football is far from blameworthy. 
Further; than that, if the public could see the thirteen well-equippeil inter-hall teams competing at Notre Dame in a well-organized league that can serve as a model for any intra­mural program, that abused phase of criticism and comparison ought to be cared for. Notre Dame's athletic pro­gram suffers a lack of publicity be­cause of the tremendous space occu­pancy of Notre Dame football, but the number of men competing in other varsity and inter-hall teams and sports, together with the many facili­ties available for independent physical development, are in keeping with the clamor of the most urgent reformers. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1930 


Notre Dame Team Retums In Triumph 
HOME CROWDS CHEER 
TEAM ON RETURN 
Amid the cheering of a throng numbering 25,000, Notre Dame's na­tional champions of 1930 were w^el­cometl back to South Bend, Wednes­day, Dec. 10. In honor of the occasion all business in South Bend was sus­pended from noon until 2 p. m. As the train arrived at 12:40, cheers echoed about the Union station where the crowd was gathered to pay hom­age to what Michael Donohue, offi­cer of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni association, called "the supermen." 
Donohue and Clements Speak 
Short speeches by Mr. Donohue and Mr. Clements of South Bend ex­pressed the appreciation of the local people for the publicity received by the city from the exploits of the team. The tributes paid to the national champions by these representatives of South Bend iinally exhausted the superlatives that sports writers have been using all year. 
Led by the University band, the team marched up through the streets of South Bend, the students following. The players were in busses and the coaches were in open cars. The march was along South street to Michigan street and north on Mich­igan to La Salle street. The marchers then proceeded to the University where a still greater reception await­ed the team that "Pop" Warner called the greatest he has ever seen. 
Walsh and Law Praise Team 
Seated in the gallery of the gym­nasium, the team faced the eyes of the cameras and the entire student body augmented by many thousands of persons from South Bend. The gymnasium was jammed to its capac­ity by the crowd. Cheers crashed against the rafters when each player's name was mentioned. The appearance of Coach Knute Rockne was the signal for another outburst which eclipsed all previous cheering. 
When the crowd had assembled, Timothy Benitz, president of the S. 
A. C, introduced Adam Walsh, cap­tain of the 1924 national champion­ship eleven. Walsh, now line coach at Yale university, said that when the '24 team played and were called the "Four Horsemen and Seven Mules" they thought they were pretty good. "However," he continued, "if they were good then this team of 1930 is marvelous, and they are led by a great man in the person of Captain Tom Conley." 
The next speaker was John Law, captain of the 1929 national cham­pions, who said that the team was beyond his power to praise. The superlatives had been exhausted he said, and therefore he could ddd nothing to the eulogies which had al­ready been paid to the team. 
Alumni 
of 
St. Joseph 
Valley Head ­Reception 
Fr. O'Donnell Gives Welcome 
The Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., president of the University, then gave the official welcome to the team. He called them "all America's choice for Ail-Americans . . . the University is proud and happy in their success." He went on to say that although the team may receive great praise from other sources they must return home to receive the full measure of appreciation which the student body alone is able to give. Father O'Donnell next turned to Mr. Rockne, whose mother and wife were in the group surrounding the coach, and said that the history of modem football is largely concerned with the one chapter called "Rockne." He ended his speech by saying "He's our 'Rock'—God bless him." 
Conley Thanks All Captain Tom Conley then replied to the president on behalf of the team. He thanked all those who treated them so well from the time they left the campus to go to California. "How^­ever," he continued, "the best place to be is back on the campus among our friends." Then, on behalf of the team, Conley thanked Father O'Don­nell for his reception. 
All the seniors who are to graduate this year were given cheers and re­
(Continued on PaRe 140) 


Nominating Committees Appointed 
Personnel of President's Committees Reflects Long Standing Interest and Intelligent Serv-. ice of Members and Promises Excellent Election; Members Are Urged to Action. 
Frank E. Hering, '98, president of the Association, has announced the appointment of the following Nomi­nating Committees which will nomi­nate candidates for the offices of the Association to be filled for the Associ­ation year 1931-32. 
The Committees are: 
Joseph Sullivan, Litt.B. '01, LL.B, '02, 139 N. Clark St., Chicago, Chair­man; Frank P. Burke, LL.B. '03, 2109 Grand Ave., Milwaukee, Wis.; Ray T. 
Miller, LL.B. '14, Prosecuting Attor­ney, Cleveland, Ohio. 
Joseph Byrne, Jr., El. '15, 45 Clin­ton St., Newark, N. J., Chairman; Keene Fitzpatrick, El. '11, 820 Kohl BUlg., San Francisco, Calif.; Henry G. Hogan, LL.B. '04, 1221 Rudisill Blvd., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
According to the constitution, the names of these Committees are to be carried in the ALUMNUS with a re­quest for suggestions from members of the Association. March 30 is the iinal date for the reports of these Committees. They are required to make different nominations for presi­dent, but may duplicate any of the other nominations. 
Offices to be filled for the coming year by general election are honorary president (at the option of the Com­mittees), president, vice-president, treasurer, a director for a' four-year tcrni. 

Above are the members of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University who attended the annual meetinK at Notre Dame. Tuesday. November IS. In the front row, from left to richt are: James J. Phelan. Boston: Fred J. Fisher. Detroit: Reverend Charles L. 0"DonneII, C.S.C.. President of the University: A. R. Erskine. President of the Board. South Bend: Edward N. Hurley, Chicaso. 
Top row. from left to richt. are: Frank E. Herinc. South Bend: John F. Cushinc, Chicaeo: Miles W. O'Brien, South Bend: Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago. Warren A. Cartier. LudinRton. Michigan, not shown in the picture, was present at the meeting. The Board of Lay Trustees is charged with the responsibility of holding, investing, and administering the endowment funds of the University. 
President Bering becomes ex officio a member of the Board of Directors for one year, succeeding John W. Eggeman, '00. The director for a four-year term succeeds George M. MajTiole, '03, Chicago. 

The proximity of President Hering to the Alumni Office this year has re­sulted in a closer bond between the presidency and the administration of the affairs of the Association than ever before. It has also resulted in the obrfous need of succeeding presi­dents who, like Mr. Hering, are will­ing, regardless of geographical loca­tion, to devote time to the Association and able to understand and discharge the increasing burdens of office. The subordinate officers play a proportion­ately larger part in the Association as its comple.xity grows. The -ALUM­NUS congratulates President Hering upon the high qualities of interest and ability which mark both Committees he has chosen. 
Herewith is reprinted a list of past presidents, since 1908, with the sug­gestion that the Committees will be glad to have advice from any member in this important work of selection: 
1908-09 Hon. William P. Breen 1909-10 Hon. Warren A. Cartier 1910-11 Francis O'Shaughnessy 1911-12 Daniel P. Murphy 1912-13 Hon. William P. Higgins 1913-14 Charles M. Bryan 1914-15 Byron V. Kanaley 1915-16 Angus McDonald 1916-17 W. A. Mclnemy 1917-18 C. C. Mitchell 1918-19 Harry Hogan 1919-20 Pat Malloy 1920-21 Joseph J. Sullivan 1921-22 Joseph Byrne, Sr. 1922-23 F. Henrj' Wurzer 1923-24 John H. Neeson 1924-25 Hugh A. O'Donnell 1925-26 William P. McPhee 1926-27 Daniel J. O'Connor 1927-28 John P. Murphy 1928-29 Donald M. Hamilton 1929-30 John W. Eggeman 1930-31 Frank E. Hering 

Tlie ALUMNUS again urges that every member take this matter of electing officers seriously. Fortunate­ly, the comparatively small group who have been active have been at the same time interested and able to place in charge of the -Association men of the type demanded. But it is more encouraging to new officers to have been elected by numerical strength and to face widespread support than to trace success to a small group no matter how earnest and capable. 
What the Association does is reflected 
upon every alumnus. Therefore every 
alumnus should take part in directing 
its activities. 
Ballots, as called for by the Con­
stitution, will be sent out before May 
20. The reports of these Committees will appear in the April and May is­sues of the ALUMNUS. More details of election will accompany these lat­ter announcements. 

Ballots this year will also carry names of candidates for the Board of Lay Trustees from which the Alumni -Association will select three, one to replace Hon. William P. Breen, de­ceased, and the other two to be added to the Board as recently provided. 
Lay Trustees Increased 
At the annual meeting of the Board 
of Lay Trustees held at the Univer­

sity on Nov. 18, it was voted to in­
crease the Board by four members, 
two alumni and two at large. This 
significant step marks another impor­
tant development in the part this val­
uable group of alumni and friends has 
played in the growth of Notre Dame. 
This Board, organized in the fall of 1920, is charged with the responsibil­ity of holding, investing and adminis­tering the endowment funds of the University. The alumni members of the Board are elected by the Alumni Association and the members at large by the Board itself. 
All but two members of the Board attended the recent meeting, both of whom were in ill health, and one of whom, Mr. Reitz, has since died. This marks two most regretted deaths on the Board this past year, the other being William P. Breen, '77, alumni charter member. 
Three members will have to be added to each division of the Board, one to fill each of the vacancies, and two as decreed by vote. 
Members present at the November meeting were A. R. Erskine, chair­man. Miles W. O'Brien, treasurer, Ed­ward N. Hurley, Fred J. Fisher, James J. Phelan, Warren A. Cartier, Byron V. Kanaley, Frank E. Hering, and John F. Cushing. 
Alumni Board Meets 

A meeting of the alumni board of directors was held in Chicago on November 29. The alumni program for the remainder of the year, more notably the progress of the Living En­dowment fund, was discussed. Plans for Universal Notre Dame Night and the June commencement were also in­cluded in the discussion. , Detailed announcements regarding these events will appear later. 
New Publication Manager 

John F. Stoeckley, .4.B., 1925, has been appointed to the position of graduate manager of publications at Notre Dame, succeeding Harley L. McDevitt, who is now associated with the Conde Nast Publications, Inc. of New York City. 
Mr. Stoeckley spent eight years at Notre Dame, entering the Notre Dame preparatory school in 1918. He entered the University proper in 1921 as a student in the College of Com­merce. In his sophomore year he transferred to the College of .-Vrts and Letters. He took an active part in publication work during his last three years at the University. He wrote for the Dome in 1924 and was con­tributor to it in 1925. He acted as associate editor of the Juggler and news editor of the SCHOLASTIC. He was also night editor of the Notre Dame Daily which was published for about a year and a half beginning in 1923. Besides his publication work, Mr. Stoeckley found time to belong to the Glee club for four years; and he was also a member of the Knights of Columbus. 
Since he left Notre Dame in 1925, the new graduate manager has held various positions in the business world. Immediately following gradu­ation he became assistant advertising manager of the Johnson Motor Com­pany, then located in South Bend. Shortly afterwards he went West where he held several positions. He came back to Chicago and was en­gaged in publicity and advertising work in connection with Marshall Field and company, Walgreen Drug company and the Publix Balaban and Katz theaters. During that time he was assistant manager of the Up­town theater, in charge of exploita­tion. He also did personal publicity work for theatrical people including such well-known stars as Wallace Ford and Harriet MacGibbon. Mr. Stoeckley has had much experience along the line of buying engra\'ings, advertising, and other interrelated publication work. 
On being questioned concerning publications at Notre Dame Mr. Stoeckley said: "I believe that our publications today are decidedly a credit to the student body and the University. I do not believe that there has been a period when the per­sonnel has been any finer, and I feel that the publications have kept pace with the material growth of Notre Dame." 
December, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Q'tiiiiiHiKiiiiiiiaiiiKi iiiiiiiiii 

lllllllltlllll tllDlllltlllt 
-B 







LIVING ENDOWMENT 
A List of Contributions, by Clubs 
To December 1, 1930 
Following is a list, to December 1, 1930, of contributions and pledges to the Living Endow­ment Fund for 1930-31, arranged alphabetically by Local Alumni Clubs. The amounts are not printed to reflect any discredit on individuals, because the amount is not so much the objective in this first year. But the list, which contains a rather substantial number of gifts from twenty-five to one hundred dollars, shows that many Club members are not participating in the plan at all, and that most of the Clubs can co-operate with the Association to advantage. The figures of course exclude dues. 
i Club Amount Club Amount 
I Albany, N. Y. $ 00.00 from no contributors Nebraska - 10.00 from 2 contributors I Akron, Ohio 85.00 from 6 contributors New Jersey - 178.00 from 15 contributors I Arkansas 40.00 from 3 contributors New York City : from 35 contributors 
1141.00 

i Boston 35.00 from 3 contributors No. California 15.00 from 3 contributors 
I Buffalo 40.00 from 5 contributors Paris, France 00.00 from no contributors 
I Calumet District 15.00 from 3 contributors Peoria, 111. 105.00 from 3 contributors 
I Central Ohio 135.00 from 4 contributors Philadelphia, Pa. 160.00 from 3 contributors 
I Chicago, ni 1379.00 from 51 contributors Portland, Ore. 00.00 from no contributors 
I Cincinnati, Ohio 131.00 from 7 contributors Rochester, N. Y. 12.00 from 2 contributors 
I Cleveland, Ohio 327.00 from 13 contributors Rock River Valley 15.00 from 3 contributors I Connecticut Valley 65.00 from 3 contributors St. Joseph Valley 803.00 from 43 contributors I Dayton, Ohio 00.00 from no contributors St. Louis, Mo 00.00 from no contributors I Denver, Colo. 20.00 from 1 contributor So. Western Texas 00.00 from no contributors I Detroit, Mich. 83.00 from 8 contributors Syracuse and Cent. N. Y. 10.00 from 1 contributor 
I Des Moines, Iowa 00.00 from no contributors Toledo, Ohio 10.00 from 2 contributors 
Tri-Cities 27.50 from 5 contributors 
I District of Columbia 5.00 from 1 contributor 
Tulsa, Okla. 80.00 from 3 contributors I Fort Wayne, Ind 160.00 from 6 contributors Twin Cities 25.00 from 4 contributors 00.00 

I Erie, Pa. 5.00 from 1 contributor 
I Fox Eiver Valley 10.00 from 1 contributor Utah from no contributors 10.00 
I Hamilton, Ohio 5.00 from 1 contributor Wabash Valley from 1 contributor I Hiawathaland 10.00 from 2 contributors *Western Pennsylvania _ 275.00 from 8 contributors 
I Houston, Texas 10.00 from 1 contributor Western Washington 20.00 from 1 contributor I Indianapolis, Ind. 65.00 from 8 contributors Youngstown, Ohio 00.00 from no contributors I Joliet, 111 00.00 from no contributors 
To Dec 1, 1930—Totals ?5931.o0 from 284 contributors 

I Kansas City, Mo 135.00 from 7 contributors 
I Kentucky 30.00 from 3 contributors Average contribution pledged-.120.87 
i Los Angeles, Calif. 15.00 from 2 contributors Percentage of Club membership contributing. - .053 
I Louisiana-Mississippi 00.00 from no contributors No. of Clubs represented . 43 
f Manila, P. I 00.00 from no contributors No. of Clubs not represented. . 14 
I Memphis, Tenn. 65.00 from 2 contributors I Milwaukee, Wis. 155.00 from 8 contributors I Montana 5.00 from 1 contributor •Western Pennsylvania also takes up a collection for I Nashville, Tenn. 00.00 from no contributors the Fund at each meeting. 
(•]•>•••>•••** •••* tiiitiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mil ti 




« Eighth Annual Universal N.D. Night 
April 20th! 
April, right now, seems a long way off. But to those committees in the organized Clubs who will have charge of arrangements, and to those com­mendable individuals in unorganized territory who are planning to bring Notre Dame to them wherever they are, it is short. 

No Notre Dame man needs to be told what Universal Notre Dame Night is. For seven years it has grown annually until it now stands out among college alumni acti\-ities. It is that one night of the year when Notre Dame men everj-where return in spirit to Notre Dame. The chan­nels that bring them are many. In form they are primarily social. Din­ners, in a few instances a dance, smokers, usually stag affairs, bring together men of all years and all walks of life who are united by the common bond of a Notre Dame educa­tion. Some of them were minims, some were preps. They have a pecul­iar and particular set of memories that are denied the Notre Dame men of today. Some of them lived in Corby Hall, others in Sorin, newer and younger men in Walsh and How­ard and 'Morrissey. Some were in the old mandolin club. Others rowed in the Evangeline. Some played on the stage in Washington Hall. Others fought and bled on old Cartier Field. Some knew Father Sorin, others were favored with the friendships of Father Cavanaugh and other later characters in the brilliant administration of the Universitj-. Some can-ed their names in Louis Nickel's table tops. Others w^ent directly to the brewer}'. No two Notre Dame careers are ever alike. It is in this infinite variety, and yet in the infinite sameness of high ideals and genuine friendships, that enjoy­ment runs high whenever Notre Dame men foregather. It is this fellowship, this particular phase of Notre Dame spirit, that makes Universal Notre Dame Night awaited everj-where. It is what makes it impressive to those outside the circle, who do not under­stand the cause, but who see and ad­mire the effect. 
Radio will be enlisted this year, as in the past, to bring to the world at large the popular songs of Notre Dame and whatever addresses by members of the administration of the University, the Association or the Local Clubs seem worth while. Local Clubs are asked to begin now making arrangements with local broadcasting stations for the transmission of the local programs. Club officers are par­ticularly asked to include wherever possible some program feature that will bring to the public a truer picture of Notre Dame, as the Notre Dame man knows it. The more general fea­tures will be announced later as ar­I'angements progress. 
In the past "there has been a tenden­cy on the part of the Clubs to confine their efforts to their own circle. While this has resulted in a cementing of 
VICTORY MARCH 
John F. Shea, '06 Michael J. Shea, 'Oi 
Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame, Wake up the echoes cheering her name, Send a volley cheer on high. Shake down the thunder from the sky, What though the odds be great or small. Old Notre Dame will win over all. While her loyal sons are march­ing Onward to Victory. 

internal ties, it has deprived members of some of the benefits that could easily be obtained without a sacrifice of the Notre Dame tone of the Night. There are many priests and professors at Notre Dame who are known and liked by alumni and who are imbued as are few men with the real Notre Dame spirit. For your communitj' information and interest, your Club can not do better than have one of these men down on your program. If you are having a dance on the Night itself, arrange a luncheon for the day, or arrange a short broadcast of which a talk by the faculty member would be a part. You can do a great deal for Notre Dame in your community while enjoying yourselves as Notre Dame men in doing it. 
The ideas about Local Clubs have undergone changes in the past few years. Numerical lines have lessened in importance before the need that Notre Dame has for representative alumni in every community. As the Universit}- grows in public promi­nence, the need for accurate and friendly interpretation grows in pro­portion. -Alumni are in the ideal sit­uation to presen-e and further Uni­versity interests. A committee of Local Club presidents is now working on a program that is within the scope of any Club, regardless of the number of members. This will be ready be­fore U. N. D. Night. The -Alumni Oflice is co-operating in the organiza­tion of several Clubs now forming, and it is hoped that the Night itself will see the organization of a number of new Clubs in the various sections of the country. 
-Appointment of committees, while it is accused of being an old -American custom, still has considerable merit where all parties involved have only part time to devote to a cause. Efficient work by intelligently dele­gated Club members is responsible for a great deal of success of some of the outstanding Clubs. -AH Clubs can profitably adopt the idea. 
Membership is the most important angle of the Night. -A complete turn­out of Notre Dame men in your com­munity is the real aim of the event. If your lists are complete and up-to­date, well and good. If not, the -Alum­ni Office will be glad to work with you in checking over your possible members. 
-Anything you want in the way of information or material that the Of­fice can send you will be gladly fur­nished. 
The -Association now boasts as ca­pable set of officers and directors as we could hope for. The problems of the organization have been discussed at many meetings by these men. Clubs which include these national officers in their roster are missing a splendid chance for information and inspiration if they neglect to include them in their programs. These men have not asked for this attention— they are already giving valuable time to the Association. But the difficulty the Alumni Secretary has in getting detailed accounts of the Association's projects to the members makes this mention seem to the point. 
Club officers will receive many com­munications on Universal Notre Dame Night between now and -April 20. There is much to be done of a con­structive nature that the Clubs can conscientiously and with pleasure to themselves promote. Members are urged to support and, wherever nec­essary stimulate, their officers. New Clubs will be most welcome. 
In the -April issue we want a list of Clubs observing the Night. Your Club will be doing Notre Dame and itself an injustice if it is not repre­sented. 


NATIONAL CHAMPIONS 
The ALUMNUS congratulates Notre Dame again on a national champion football team. We hope that the Uni­versity enjoys to the full the limelight in which it indis­putably basks. 
Notre Dame has nothing to fear from publicity in any form.' Its dearest friends are those whose contacts are closest. Any medium which brings public attention to Notre Dame cannot help, if that attention is intelligently focused, but create new friends. 
Football is certainly not a medium to be ashamed of. For years it has been a legitimate phase of college activ­ity. Never has it been more legitimate than in recent years with the organized systems of checks and balances that guide amateur athletics in this country. 
It is no trouble at Notre Dame to explain the football success that the outside world calls phenomenal. The physical conditions under which Notre Dame men live go to make courageous men in body. The philosophy they learn makes brave men in mind. Eockne, the coaching genius who co-ordinates these two great qualities and molds them in the form of football teams is the third factor. It's just a part of life at Notre Dame. 
In other fields there are the same boys, with the same training in mind, the same living conditions. If Eockne could sub-divide his genius, or if every instructor, every coach, were a Eockne, and, (verj- much to the point), if the public were as clamorous for the products of genius in other fields, results would probably compare very favorably. 
But the point is this year's success. The Eissman Trophy, symbol of three undisputed national champion­ships in seven years, now joins the permanent row of Notre Dame trophies. Three teams, 1924, 1929 and 1930, have reached the pinnacles of football fame, the football' world at their feet. Eockne himself has refused to call any of these three the supreme eleven. For Notre Dame men this is particularly fitting. A man's best at Notre Dame places him on his particular peak. As the world measures, these vary from molehills to mountains. As Notre Dame measures, they form a uniform range. 
Certainly the boys of this year's squad desen-e the fullest measure of praise. Eockne, in whom football is epitomized, was unable to take part in spring practice. "Hunk" Anderson, who had taken charge of the team then, was just returned from two seasons absence at St. Louis 
U. Chevigny and Voedisch were veterans in football lore but young in coaching experience. The Notre Dame line, particularly the center and guard posts, having lost Can­non, Law, MojTiihan and Nash, among others, could not reasonably be expected to repeat its 1929 success. Then in mid-season, with unexpected success attending its ef­forts, the team received the always terrific shock of losing one of its popular stars, Savoldi. To come to the end of what had, since its announcement, been dubbed the "sui­cide schedule" undefeated, has brought to the team of 1930 a little more accord from a public to whom its handi­caps were more apparent and its achievements therefore a little more appreciated than the two championship teams preceding it. 
ICnute Eockne has been so written about, so in the pub­lic eye, that nothing under the Eockne sun is new. But the ALUMNUS must repeat a few things because Eockne is one of us, and because a good thing, no matter how often repeated, continues to be good. "Eock" has taken the present success, unprecedented in the football world, with all of the modesty that has characterized his coaching career. Notre Dame and Jesse Harper, to hear Eock's version, deserve sole credit, plus the spirit of his boys. But to those who know Eock, this spirit among the boys and the little variations of the Notre Dame system of play, the sudden overcoming of apparently insurmount­able obstacles, reflect but one influence and that is Eockne. The thousands of boys throughout the land, who look to Eockne as the guiding genius of clean, vigorous boyhood and the maker of men, are not just happenstance. There is but one Eockne to whom the world listens at its radio, or whose words are read as football gospel in the nation's press. There is but one Eockne who packs halls with all classes and creeds of men. 
The world, Notre Dame least of all, is not fooled about that. 
Eock's assistants, this year as never before, stand out as flawless mirrors of the Eockne image. Last year Tom Lieb did a most creditable job, but Eockne had supervised the thorough Spring training that means so much to a Notre Dame team. This year "Hunk" Anderson, Jack Chevigny, "Ike" Voedisch and Tim Moynihan had to begin at the beginning, carry through Spring practice and open the Fall with the boys learning from Eockne only as he could confer with the coaching staif from a sick bed. That they were thorough and faithful is startlingly obvious. 
We could name individually every man on the 1930 team as desen-ing of congratulation. All-Americaii selection» everjnvhere are naming them to fill the places of honor. It is difficult to make a just selection of outstanding mem­bers of the squad. This is evident in the differences of opinion among the authorities. It only emphasizes, not the lesser merits of any one man, but the great merit of them all. The man who picked the Notre Dame team as his AU-American selection, if we may presume to turn boosting into boasting, was not far off. 
What •will Notre Dame do with these new laurels ? What further goal is there? 
The ALUMNUS ventures the opinion that Notre Dame will go about the business of administering a thorough Catholic education to students in much the same manner as before. It is a natural hope that this glare of the sportlight will reveal the academic as well as the athletic side of Notre Dame to the great public that has followed the Notre Dame team. It is Notre Dame's avowed pur­pose to be supreme in academic fields as on the gridiron. The obstacles are difiicult. But even as Notre Dame foot­ball, compared to the recent date of that sport's favor in the public eye, has risen rapidly and consistently, there is reason to believe that a similar reception, on the part of the world at large, of academic efforts and achieve­ments, would result in a similar rise in these other fields. 
Sufficient unto the day is the glory thereof. We are exceedingly proud of the achievements of the team of 1930. 
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1930 
Notre Dame Team Returns 
(Continued from Paffe 134) 

sponded with speeches. Frank Carid­60, AU-Ameiican quarterback, was the first to speak and thanked the throng for their wonderful reception. He said that his greatest friendships "were made right here on the campus." 
Bert Metzger, 154-pound guard and a prominent choice for AU-American honors, thanked all who were so kind to the team and all the men with whom he played for their wonderful help. 
An unsung hero, left guard on the national champions, spoke next. Tom Kassis regretted having to end his college career so soon, because of the wonderful friends he has made at Notre Dame. Larrj' MuUins, whom Benitz calls "the hard luck boy of the year," expressed his sorrow at having to leave, but said that he hopes to carrj' on the high ideals he has been taught at Notre Dame, particularly through his association with the team. 
Saturday's hero, Paul O'Connor, was given a rousing cheer by the crowd which had by that time swelled to immense proportions. O'Connor expressed his appreciation and then stated that it was a great honor to have been able to play on the team this year. Dick Donoghue, right tack­le, hoped that the teams of future years can carrj' on the great work done by this team and the teams of the past. Frank Leahy, who was in­jured early this season, concluded with a tribute to the students when he said that the splendid display of loy­alty as shown by them on Wednesday would be an inspiration to any team. 
Rockne Replies to Sports Writers 

Coach Knute K, Eockne replied to the sports writers who had asked him to compare the national championship teams of 1924, 1929, and this year's team. He stated that rather than compare them he would call them all great teams in the enduring Notre Dame tradition. Speaking for the members of the team he said that the fellows appreciate the loyalty shown by the students but that they have now come back to study and catch up on some of the time they lost because of the trip to sunny California. 
Wednesday when the team ar­rived at La Salle street station in Chicago they were met by a huge throng that numbered' many thou­sands. The reception was in charge of Prank Fitzsimmons of the Notre Dame club of Chicago. 
-Among the members of previous Notre Dame football teams seen in the gallery on Wednesday were Jack Elder, Joe Nash, Tim Moynihan, now coaching the centers at Notre Dame, Ted Twomey, Bud Gebert, and Manny Vezie of last year's team. Don Miller and Harry Stuhldreher of the famous 1924 team were present, and Parisien of the 1926 team. Many sports writers of Chicago papers and the syndicated news services were also there. 

Rauch Appointed Chairman 
The Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, announced recently the appointment of Rufus William Rauch, professor of English, as faculty chairman of stu­dent publications. Mr. Rauch will succeed Father Carroll who is now with The Ave Maria. 
Mr. Rauch was bom in Dubuque, Iowa. He attended Columbia Acad­emy there, graduating in 1920. From Columbia Academy he went to Colum­bia College, where he received his bachelor's degree in 1924. His gradu­ate work was done at the University of Iowa, where, in 1925, he received his master's degree. In the fall of the same year he started teaching at Marquette University. 
In 1927, he came to Notre Dame where, in the past three years, he has given courses in lyric poetry, survey of English literature, middle English, and Chaucer. This year he is lectur­ing in Shakespeare and English drama. While at Columbia, Mr. Rauch edited the Spokesman, the literary quarterly of the college. He is keenly interested in college journalism, and, under his direction, it is felt that the high standard of our local publica­tions is sure to be maintained. 

Association Invites Registrar 
Robert B. Riordan, registrar of the University, has received an invitation to join the American Association for the Advancement of Science and as­sociated societies. All who are in­terested in any phase of the advance­ment of knowledge are eligible for enrollment. 
Mr. Riordan has also been invited to attend the annual meeting of the association to be held in Cleveland, beginning the week of December 29 and ending January 3, 1931. 

Glee Club Is Praised 

That the glee club broadcasts on November 28 from Chicago were a distinct success is evidenced by the interest aroused in many quarters over the Notre Dame songs and the praise given the men under Professor Casasanta in many news articles. 
At 5:30 p. m. the glee club broad­cast over the hook-up of stations WMAQ, WOR, and WLW, sponsored by the Williams Manufacturing com­pany. On the Armour hour over a National Broadcasting company net­work the glee club sang again. On this same program the radio audience listened to a short sport comment by Coach Kockne. 
Along with the glee club on the Williams program was Coach Dick Hanley of Northwestern, who gave an analysis of the two teams, Notre Dame and Army. 
In their program the glee club ren­dered "When Irish Backs Go March­ing By." This was the first time this piece has ever been rendered in a radio broadcast and was favorably received by the many listeners who wrote in praising the rendition. Let­ters were still pouring in at this late date. 
N. D. Wins Beaux Arts Mention 
Honorable mention has been given by the Beaux Arts Institute of Design of New York City to over half the number of 35 designs submitted by students of the department of archi­tecture at the University in a recent competition. In the sophomore com­petition, the subject of which was a foot bridge, R. P. Bedan, R. H. Heit­ger, J. A. Malcolm, J. J. Sullivan, and 
J. C. de la Vergne received half men­tions; R. Visceglia, L. R. Chreist, P. Ochsenschlager and I. E. Sandmeier were awarded with full mention. 
A monastic chapel was the junior subject. In' this the following received full mention: D. C. Rodgers and C. F. Hyland. Half mention was given to 
L. J. Blommaert and E. J. Wieczorek. 
J. J. Brown, L. J. Blommaert, J. T. Golabowski, L. F. MoUer, F. R. West, and R. M. Marshall were mentioned in the problem of a medieval draw­bridge, restricted to junior and senior competition. John Hanson was given half mention in the design of a mon­astery, a subject for seniors. 
/A COACHING THE IRISH" ^^t^^^ 
Tim Moynihan Hunk Anderson "Rock" Jack Chevigny Ike Voedisch 
««« 
THE ALL­ALUMNI COACHING STAFF 
«<« 

"Sweeter as the years roll by,"— that is the brief synopsis of Notre Dame football since its organization in 1887, when the Irish started to travel the upward curve to gridiron fame. Back in the good old days when football was"' still in its swaddling clothes, Notre Dame under Captain Edward Luhn scheduled one game \vith Michigan, which unhappily ended in defeat. This first eleven did not have a Cartier field, or a cheering section, or a Rockne to cheer and spur them on. In that day they didn't have a Tournament of Roses, and Yale bowls were unheard of, still dreams in the minds of their builders. They did not have a battery of re­porters or a swarm of cameramen to tell of their de.\terous ability on the gridiron. They fought on year after year, proudly sallying forth, bearing the banner of N. D. to fresh fields of conquest. With them was one in­separable possession, the indomitable will to play the game. This spirit has become a heritage. It is undying and undaunted, unconsciously animat­ing victory after victory; and today the Irish are meeting and defeating the same teams that but a few years ago scoffed at, "that little school out there in Indiana." 
Reviewing Notre Dame history from that game of ten years ago in which the titan Gipp played for the last time: Notre Dame holds aloft the splendid record of being defeate<l nine times out of ninety-three games, two games were tie, while her war­riors walked from eighty-two of these games, over the field of battle,. as conquerors. 
October 8th, 1921, the Irish lost, to Iowa, for the first time in three years. That was in the days when the Devine warriors, along with Slater, found their names listed among the Ail-American eleven. Under the leader­ship of Captain Carberry in 1922, the Irish lost to Nebraska 14 to 6. In the following season Harvey Brown pi­loted the team to nine victories but again suffered defeat by the Western Comhuskers, by a score of 14 to 7. During the year of 1924 the world watched the brilliant achievements of the famous Four Horsemen. Notre Dame participated in ten games that season, not once leaving the gridiron vanquished. This was the first per­fect year since 1920. A single game was lost in '25 to the Army, by the big score of 27 to 0. In '26 eight squads were conquered while the Irish failed to win against Carnegie Tech at Pittsburgh, losing 19 to 0. Again in '27 the Army tramped over the Rockmen to win 18 to 0, that being the only defeat of the season. Cap­tain Smith finished with seven vic­tories and one tie with Minnesota, 7 to 7. No year since 1905 had more than two games a season, until the 
unfortunate year of 1928. A fighting but inadequate team, for the demands of a heavy season, fell before the at­tack of Wisconsin 22 to 6, and lost to Georgia Tech for the first time, 13 to 0. But that is not all, 23 years had elapsed since the Gold and Blue bowed in defeat on its own gridiron. Only twice forced to draw, once to Minnesota and the other time to a galaxy of stars wearing the colors of the Great Lakes training station in the war time days of 1918. The fight­ing Irish had not known what it was to go down in defeat on Cartier iield. It had become idolized, as the one gridiron that should never know aught but victory. For twenty-three years this field remained clear. Then des­tiny approached its progress with the game that shattered all these records, for on October 27, 1928, the strong team of Carnegie Tech forced the "Fighting Irish," this time with sad hearts, to leave the beloved rectangle of their Alma Mater with a broken tradition, being defeatetl 27 to 7. 
When you see two strong teams struggling on the gridiron in a sports­manlike way you are forced to marvel at the performance of the men who thrill you with a movement of excite­ment. Such a contest the "Fighting Irish" battled in 1926 with the Army. Until the last five minutes of play the score was 0-0. It appeared that the game would end in a tie, but like many of the games which Notre Dame has participated in, the unexpected . 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS December, 1930 
developed. From the Notre Dame's own 35 yard line Flanagan, right half for the Irish, received the ball, Voe­disch at that time playing end along with Heardon, left half who later be­came captain in '27, gave perfect in­terference, everything functioned as if the master was there. The play re­sulted in a 65 yard run to a touch­down, and victory for Notre Dame, the one play in football that was "perfect." Flanagan, it was said, could have walked to the goal line. 
A casual observer had also been a witness to this game. He had heard of the prowess of Notre Dame. After the game he accosted me and said, "it seemed that the Irish would have been held scoreless had it not been for that one play. It was simply perfect." "Who, or what," he con­tinued, "is that invisible something, working along with the Notre Dame team out there on the gridiron? It would have been impossible for any eleven to perform such a play without the assistance of someone. The style and gracefulness, the spirit of co­operation, of unity appeared to be in every move and operation of the Irish. What I want to know, whose mind is that working out there on the grid­iron? Whose labor is it that makes those men? Whose skill and energy was back of that play?" "The man," I answered, "who was responsible for that hour of pleasure to you and the achievement you saw, is Knute Ken­neth Eockne." 
To tell you about Knute Rockne and his great success as head coach of Notre Dame since 1917, would end in futility. You have undoubtedly seen his teams in action on the gridiron or know of his soundness and ability as a coach, and his power to inspire men; or heard of his fame and achieve­ments since becoming mentor at Notre Dame. We feel that "Rock" will always produce championship teams, Ail-American men and be him­self a champion among coaches. 
All of Coach Rockne's assistants are men of his own making. Hartley "Hunk" Anderson, line coach, John "Ike" Voedisch, end coach, John "Jack" Chevigny, back field coach and Tim Moynihan, assistant line coach. His most valuable subordinate, ac­cording to Rockne and his entire com­pany, is "Hunk" Anderson. 
When George Gipp came to Notre Dame in 1917, he learned about foot­ball. Following his freshman year he returned home and there he told the story of his glorious adventure to one of his best friends, "Hunk" Anderson. Upon, his return in the fall, Gipp didn't come alone, "Hunk" was per­suaded that fame for him rested on the gridiron of the Irish. And rightly 
so, for the world knew of ' 'Hunk" jVnderson four years later, as Ail-American guard. During his entire college career, this great line coach has but one bitter regret, one sweet remembrance: the cold, stormy day of Dec. 14, 1920, when he walked beside the casket, carrying his best pal, George Gipp, to the grave. 
After achieving his All-American laurels, "Hunk" returned to his Alma Mater to assist Rockne as a line coach. This position he maintained undisputed with the exception of two years, when he was head football coach at St. Louis U., and Tom Lieb assumed his responsibilities. Upon the resignation of Lieb, "Rock" im­mediately urged Anderson to return to N. D. Beginning the season of 1930 "Hunk" started out on his task. Now it would be indeed more com­patible to tell the results of Ander­son's endeavor, than to explain more about his past. 
The final three games on the Irish schedule found the strongest teams in the country as their opponents, North-w^estem. Army, and University of Southern California. Two of these elevens were favored to win. Both the Purple and Trojan lines were said to be impregnable, nothing could pen­etrate beyond those two walls of stone. But "Hunk" had different ideas. Weeks' passed and he continued to labor with his men, having one ob­jective to develop it to the strength of defeating N. U. and the Trojans. His efforts are realized as a triumph, his work was w^ell done. Thanks to "Hunk" for the Irish line in the vic­tories over Northwestern, 14-0 and Southern California, 27-0. 
John "Ike" Voedisch is South Bend's Hoosier hero of football. His coaching position is working with the ends. A position which he played ad­mirably for three years with the Fighting Irish without missing a sin­gle game. The years of "Ike's" re­markable career, '25-'26-'27, gained him the honor of being mentioned by the late Walter Eckersall as All-American. Voedisch, is not a coach by profession, but during his leisure hours while an official at the South Bend Polar Ice and Fuel Co. he comes out to Notre Dame to assist in mak­ing the "Ramblers" another champion­ship team. But "Ike" has a little more responsibility. Whenever there is scouting or research work to be done Rockne calls for him; because he knows that his experience and quick insight in perceiving the system or formation of the opposing team is usually right. Rockne has placed un­limited confidence in him. And "Ike," ^ let it be remembered has always come through, proving his worth. 
John "Jack" Chevigny, backfield coach at N. D., was one of her war­riors in '26-'27-'28. Chevigny cher­ishes in his memory the thought of having crossed the goal line of every team the Fighting Irish played, when he was carving his niche in the Notre Dame gridiron hall of fame. Should, perchance, you not have followed the Notre Dame eleven this season and know of their undefeated record of twenty games, we will take time out to say that the ability and elusiveness of the Irish backs comes from the keen sense of timing developed by the coaching of Jack Chevigny. You will agree then, when we say that Chev­igny is a competent man for the job. 
Along with the passing of the national champions of 1929 there stepped from the ranks of N. D. foot­ball history one of its greatest cen­ters, "Tim" Moynihan. After the final game in '29 Tim went west where he entered the "movies," but decided to return and complete his studies as a law student, and answer the request of Rockne by assisting Anderson with his work in developing the line. This task he assumed with the same en­thusiasm that he displayed on the gridiron. His job included training guards and centers to employ the most valuable tactics on the offensive as well as on the defensive. Coaching is not the ultimate goal of success with Tim, but it is rather following the first love of his heart, to be near the great sport which he cherishes. We know, now that the happy season of 1930 has ended, just what Moyni­han has done in the way of making the Irish another championship eleven. The number of yards gained through center averages the lowest for the season, it is largely the result of Moy­nihan's efforts. We can truthfully ex­press our gratification by saying that we trust Tim will be backing the line of Notre Dame next year. 
The curtain has slowly been low­ered, the Rissman award for three years of national championships with­in a decade has been given to the Uni­versity where it will be placed in the archives of Notre Dame gridiron his­tory as its most cherished trophy. The great genius Rockne, and psy­chologist, along with his coaching staff, Anderson, Chevigny, Voedisch, Moynihan, will again go back to their work and toil with the hope of mak­ing the fighting Irish another cham­pionship eleven. Their honor and achievement have been heralded over the world as the most efficient coach­ing that ever developed a gridiron team. Thus we dare not permit their fame to pass without generously join­ing the football sphere to laud them for their great effort at Notre Dame. 



E. L Doh enys Entertain Notre Dame Team 
One of the features of the Califor­nia trip that made a tremendous im­pression on the team and the Notre Dame party was a luncheon given on Sunday, December 7, at the ranch of Mr. and Mrs. Edward L. Doheny in the Beverly Hills section. A number of guests besides the Notre Dame team and party were present. These included Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, D.D., Bishop of Fort Wayne. (Bishop Noll, by the way, is reported to have never seen a Notre Dame team lose.) Rt. Rev. James E. Cassidy, D.D., Bishop of Fall River, was also a guest. Bishop Cassidy flew to California from Chicago. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Caw­ley, rector of the Cathedral in Los 
Rockne at Mayo's 

Ivnute K. Rockne, master coach of Notre Dame football, will probably remain at the Mayo Brothers hospital in Rochester, Minn., for at least two weeks, undergoing a thorough physi­cal checkup and taking a rest cure, according to Associated Press dis­patches received here Dec. 19. 
Mr. Rockne fears that the constant drain on his physical and emotional lesources during the gruelling 10­game football campaign in which his team won national title honors 'for the second successive season, may have caused a recurrence of the thrombo­phlebitis which laid him low through most of the fall and winter of 1929­30. 
However, a preliminary, examina­tion at Rochester Thursday by Dr. C. 
J. Barborka indicated that there was "nothing organically wrong" with Rockne and that his poor condition was caused only by the severe strain of the hard season. 
"Mr. Rockne looks fine," Dr. Bar­borka said, "except that he is tired from strain and from making sev­eral speeches everj' day or so. His condition is just what may be e.x­pected of any one who has gone through such a stringent period. I do not see any reason for confining him to bed." 
Frank Leahy, veteran tackle who would probably have been a regular last season but for-a constantly re­curring knee injury, is also at.Roch­ester to undergo an examination to determine whether the condition is so chronic as to necessitate surgical attention. 
Angeles, the clergy of the city and a distinguished group of the Los Ange­les laity were also present. Among the Notre Dame party were Mr. and Mrs. K. K. Rockne, Rev. M. A. Mul­caire, C.S.C. and J. Arthur Haley, Jesse Hibbs, captain of last year's Southern California team, was also present. 
Luncheon was served in the pavilion of the beautiful Doheny home and on a beautiful terrace adjacent. The ranch is situated in one of the most picturesque sections of beautiful Bev­erly Hills and the luncheon, among orange trees weighted down with fruit, \vith the beautiful hills in the background, made a lasting impres­
Rumors and hunches regarding the possibility that Rockne would retire from active coaching and confine his work at Notre Dame to that of ath­letic director, starting next season, persist in South Bend and elsewhere. Some followers of the game are of the opinion that one of Rockne's former players, possibly Harry Stuhldreher, 1924 quarterback and successful head coach at Villanova college, near Phil­adelphia, Pa., would return to take up the head coaching job, along with Heartley "Hunk" Anderson, already here as an assistant. 
Persons holding this opinion point out that Rockne has, several times in the last few weeks, expressed doubt as to whether "it was worth it all," and made other utterances which would indicate that possibly he was beginning to tire of the constant glare of publicity and manifold duties that accompany his present position. They also say that Rockne has, like Bobby Jones, "won about all there is to win." 
(From the South Bend Tribune) 
Miscalculated Identity 

A Topeka paper is responsible for this one: 
When the Notre Dame football special train was standing at the Rock Island station the other morn­ing a switchman looked, through a window and saw a man wearing a red cap. "Don't that freshman think he is playing hell, making this trip with the team," said the switchman. An Irishman standing near informed the switchman that the man in the red cap was a Bishop, not a fi-eshman. 
sion on the Notre Dame men. 
After lunch Mr. and Mrs. Doheny showed the party about the grounds of the ranch, one of the outstanding estates in that city of beautiful homes. Following this the guests walked over to "Greystone," the ad­joining palatial home of Mrs. Edward 
L. Doheny, Jr. and her children, where they were received by the gra­cious hostess and shown the beautiful home and views to be had from the balcony of the home. 
In a trip marked by entertainment and excitement, this luncheon of the Dohenys remains one of the high spots in the memories of the members of the team. 
Frequent Communion 

In a ceremony commemorating the 2oth anniversary of the decree on frequent communion issued by Pope Pius X., Bishop John F. Noll of Fort Wayne, Ind., presided Thursday night, Dec. 18, in Sacred Heart Church. The student body attended the cere­mony in a group. 
Bishop Noll was assisted by Rev. Charles Miltner, C.S.C, Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C, Very Rev. James Bums, C.S.C, Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, and Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell C.S.C, president of the University. 
Classes Resume Jan. 5 

Notre Dame closed its doors and locked its classrooms for tivo weeks that the 3,000 students may sit about home tables for the Christmas feast. Classes will be resumed Jan. 5. 
Students, especially freshmen, who had packed bags days ago and who, for the past several sessions, have been present for classes in only a physical sense, made a mad dash for the first available means of trans­portation at the noon bell Friday. 
The procession which had all the ear-marks of being a parade of trav­eling salesmen, halted at the car sta­tion and scrambled into the nearest thing on wheels. Previously .these young men had carried their hand­bags to their respective class rooms so that they could be off to an early start. One irate professor inquired of his class whether they thought the lecture room was a hotel check room or a baggage depot. 

Fifteen Minutes With Gilbert K. Chesterton 
An Interview 

Mr. Chesterton's outstanding im­pression of Notre Dame was "massed Catholicity." In the friendliest sense, I received the same impression of Mr. Chesterton. 
Nature seems to have generously amplified his figure as adequate struc­tural support for the tremendous in­tellect with which he is so admittedly endowed. I had had the pleasure of hearing Mr. Chesterton, his impres­sive figure before me on the Washing­ton Hall stage. To meet him in the confines of his own study, in the home in South Bend which he occupied with his wife and secretary during his stay, only added to the impression. 
I use his own term "massed Catho­licit}-" because in his generous pro­portions seems symbolized the bul­wark of modem defense that he has erected between the Church and her attackers. A cordial smile, eyes at once appraising and kindly, and a ruddy complexion commonly associ­ated with the English, lent a warmth to his presence, particularly encourag­ing to an intruder on Mr. Chesterton's last day in South Bend. 
For six weeks, from October 6 to November 14, Mr. Chesterton enlight­ened and enlivened intellectual Notre Dame with a series of thirtj'-six lec­tures, eighteen on the literature of the Victorian period, eighteen on the history of the same period. Needless to say, Mr. Chesterton's learned and matchless exposition of these vital topics was of inestimable value to the fortunate students who took advan­tage of these courses. The lectures, as previously stated, were made pos­sible through the financial assistance of an alumnus of the University. 
Notre Dame, Mr. Chesterton told me, first and most lastingly impressed him by the amount of Catholicity gathered into this comparatively small jurisdiction. It is difficult, he said, to draw any comparisons of particular alumni significance, as England is especially averse to formal organiza­tion. While alumni of the English universities are probably kindred in many ways to the alumni of American institutions, I gathered from Mr. Chesterton's remarks that an Alumni Secretary, with dues, meetings, and so on, would hamper rather than pro­mote their relations. Which leaves me wide open. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG 
Notre Dame, he continued, has a rather substantial and favorable simi­larity to one of the best features of Cambridge and Oxford,—that sense of domesticity which comes with student residence upder responsible leader­ship. This quality, Mr. Chesterton states, is not common to any other European university or even the other schools of England and Scotland. This companionship of the "house" or campus, he felt to be strongly present at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame goes further, he added, in its Americanization of this resi­dence feature, whereas, he told me, whether it was premeditated or not, there have grown up in Cambridge and Oxford traditions of quality, in the sense of social superiority, that have given a "tone" to these schools that rather pre-supposes ancestral merit. The democracy of Notre Dame, Mr. Chesterton believes, in an advan­tage over the spirit of the English institutions. Mr Chesterton was much pleased with an American writer's in­terpretation of the American situa­tion, in which it was stated that America did not have so much a "folk ideal" as a "folks ideal," accepting on individual merit anyone who may come along. 
Mr. Chesterton's American experi­ences and contacts, from the personal angle, have not been extensixe enough for wide comparisons along usual lines. I might ordinarily have fol­lowed. I asked him if he had come in contact with the recent adult educa­tion development among American alumni. He assured me that the idea of developing and continuing intel­lectual relationships between a college and its alumni was very valuable, and would be heartily endorsed by alumni of English universities. 
Mr. Chesterton seemed to be genu­inely interested in Notre Dame and to have absorbed some of those things dear to Notre Dame that go into the make-up of the real University. He said that in the short time he was here he gained the very strong im­pression that the Notre Dame campus, its students and its faculty, like Ox­ford and Cambridge, gives the feeling of "a roof over it." The atmosphere impressed him. I gathered from one remark that he had fallen into good hands for the acquisition of some of the traditions of Notre Dame. He told me that he had a strong sym­pathy for the "old gentleman" (Fath­er Sorin) who insisted on painting the Dome gold. 
When I entered the Chesterton study he was surrounded by literally hundreds of books, some of them probably his own in the process of packing, but many of them, books written by him, that he was auto­graphing for friends among the stu­dents. A number of impressed under­graduates had told me that Mr. Ches­terton was autographing a book for them. Seeing was believing. He was apparently not averse to the task, and the influence he exerted by his pres­ence, by his lectures, and by the abid­ing interest that Notre Dame men of this period will henceforth have in his great intellectual crusade, cannot be estimated. 
In listening to the praise of Notre Dame from Mr. Chesterton's world famous tongue, given in a delightfully accented conversational manner that marked his entire series of lectures as something wholly apart from any formal address, I had no difficulty in understanding how easy it was for members of the faculty to sit with Mr. Chesterton in Prof. Phillip's tower room in Sorin until the new Seth Thomas in the tower of the Church read 2:30 A. M. Nor did I have to go further to explain the praise of Mr. Chesterton by the wives of the faculty members who met him at a reception supper following the con­ferring of the Doctorate upon him Nov. 5. Many of these fortunates ladies had also heard his lecture se­ries, which the University kindly opened to members of the faculty and alumni, as well as students. 
Mr. Chesterton, who received his 
LL.D. in the first convocation ever called for that purpose, is, as Father O'Donnell stated on that occasion, in "a class by himself." Charity over­came my natural inclination to take more of his valuable time. Having appointed him "Class Secretary" for himself, I left him with his expressed desire to return some day to Notre Dame to "participate in adult educa­tion." Such is our newest alumnus. 



"Eat, Drink And Be Merry, For To-Morrow—'^ 
In Which the Local Alumni Clubs of Chicago and the St. Joseph Valley Present Pleasing Contrasts, To the Edification of Important Blocs of Notre Dame's Public. 
The TributeANNUAL of the
CIVIC 
St. JosephTESTIMONIAL ValleyBANQUET 

IMH 
Alumni 

Notre Dame's football philosophy was never better expressed than in the two great banquets held toward the close of the 1930 season by the Chi­cago and St. Joe Valley Clubs. The Chicago Club entertained 400 mem­bers and guests, including alumni of iJotre Dame's season opponents, on the eve of the Army game. There was uncertainty as to the outcome of the game the following day, even more uncertainty as to the following week. But spirit was as high, admiration for Eock and the team as genuine, friendship of the other college alumni as sincere, as at the victorious ban­quet of the St. Joe Valley group on Dec. 11, when 1,200 alumni and guests gathered to pay annual tribute to Eock and his men, once more national champions. When the future looked dark, and when the future was no longer in doubt, Notre Dame men and Notre Dame friends seemed just the same. It was an inspiring lesson in loyalty. 
The Chicago Club undertook this year a dual celebration, a dinner on Friday night, Nov. 28, stag, to honor the Army, and a dance, formal, on Saturday night, Dec. 29, to celebrate the Army game (win, lose or draw). The wisdom of this move to expand the old dinner-dance custom was evi­dent in the success of both. The Edi­tor had the privilege of being a guest at each function. The dinner at the Lake Shore Athletic Club was inspir­ing from many angles. The speakers alone stood out in the national field as spokesmen of the sport world and the academic world with which it is so closely linked each Fall. Notre Dame's eloquent and genial president, cham­pion of champions, headed the pro­gram. The Army was represented by Col. Whipple, Maj. Fleming, Maj. Sasse, coach of its team, and a table of loyal Army alumni, judge Walter Steffen, coach of Carnegie Tech; Dr. John Sutherland, coach of the Pitts­burgh Panthers; H. O. Page, In­diana's coach; Dick Hanley, and Ken­neth Wilson, of Northwestern; Ed­ward Lytton of Drake; Aubrey De-vine, assistant coach of Southern California; Warren Brown, Arch Ward, Jimmy Corcoran, Christy Walsh and Frank Wallace, names prominent in the printed world of sport; and the center of it all, Knute 
K. Eockne, filled to overflowing an evening of praise for Notre Dame and all of the ideals for which it stands, and which its athletic teams so ably exemplify. John Kanaley was toast­master. It is useless to attempt to record here the uniform tributes paid by opposing coaches and college officials to their relations with Notre Dame. Father O'Donnell, as always, presented Notre Dame's attitude toward athletics with eminent benefit to that relationship. Eock was in that flashing form which his friends knew before his illness of a year ago took him to a large extent from the public platform. The atmosphere of the dinner was splendid in quality. John Kanaley made a gracious and able toastmaster for the brilliant occasion. The committee in charge, headed by Edward Gould, *23, and composed of 
C. C. Mitchell, '02; D. J. O'Connor, '05; J. W. Foley, '17; E. E. Hag­gerty, 12 ; A. J. Hughes, '17; W. J. Maloney, '20; N. C. Barry, '21; Art Weinrich, '19; J. B. Stephan, '23; Mark Mooney, '26; F. J. Walsh, '26; Norman Feltes, '24; Don Wilkins, '27, and Arthur Petersen, '30, deserve a great deal of credit from the Chicago Club and the Association generally for the efiicient conduct of so fine an aiTair. 
The Army Ball on the following night, in the Gold and Balloon Eooms of the Congress Hotel, was equally well handled by a committee headed by Eichard Halpin, '27, and consist­ing of A. J. McGrath, '22; George Dever, '23; E. J. Barrett, '24; T. C. Donovan, '24; George Laughlin, '25; Jack ScaUan, '25; B. F. Carey, '26; 
J. H. Kelleghan, '26; F. J. Pender­gast, '27; J. W. Slattery, '27; E. C. Worthington, '27; J. F. Timlin, '28; 
H. P. Eeynolds, '29; Paul Heidkamp, '30, and W. J. McCarthy. '30. 
Hosts and hostesses for the occa­sion were: Bev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C.; Msgr. Thomas -V. Shannon; Mr. and Mrs. Ernest E. Graham; Mr. and Mrs. Edward N. Hurley; Mr. and 
Mrs. Samuel InsuU; Mr. and Mrs. Marcus A. Kavanaugh; Mr. and Mrs. 
D. P. Kelly; Mr. and Mrs.-WUhelm Middleschulte; Mr. and Mrs. Knute 
K. Rockne; Mr. and Mrs. Kickham Scanlan; Mr. and Mrs. Frank T. Fitzsimmons, and Dr. Richard J. Tivnen. 
Two orchestras played for the Ball and hoth rooms were crowded to ca­pacity, a number of alumni and guests having to be turned away be­cause of lack of reservations. 
If the success of an experiment de­termines its repetition, the Chicago Club will undoubtedly favor its mem­bers and friends with an annual pres­entation of this week-end program. The ALUMNUS congratulates the Club upon the merits of both events and the general evidence of Club or­ganization and Notre Dame spirit e^'inced by it all. 
It Was In The St. Joe Valley 
Chicago's celebration had brought into the limelight the opinions of the opposing coaches of the season, an end formerly achieved by the annual testimonial banquet given by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Val­ley at the close of the season. In view of this fact and the coming again of national championship hon­ors to Notre Dame, the home Club committed itself to placing the Team of 1930 and its Coach in the banquet's spotlight, limiting the speaking pro­gram to a few outstanding figures in the sports world. Once more, South Bend, and more distant, fans snapped up the thousand tickets that were put on sale in less than two days. "The East Hall of the University Dining Halls was crowded to capacity. The Universitj-'s 78-piece Band furnished the same inspiring music that was behind the team throughout the sea­son. The dinner was up to the high standard established at the first of these banquets on the campus three years ago. The Hall was attractively decorated to represent a gridiron. The ice cream was molded to represent the New Stadium. 
From outside, JMajor John L. Griffith, commissioner of the Big Ten; "Tug" Wilson of Northwestern; and Alonzo Stagg of Chicago were there to assist with the laudatory exercises. There were others, too—all of them free in their lavish praise of this juggernaut of football skill, and of Knute Rockne. 
Before this assemblage Professor Frank Dickinson, the dynamic, broad-shouldered, curly-haired statistician of Illinois university, presented to Notre Dame permanent possession of the Rissman trophy, which is emblem­atic of a national championship team three times in one decade. 
"I sincerely hope," he said, "that this trophy vdM hang forever on the walls of Notre Dame as a tribute to a series of great teams, a tribute to a great coach, and a tribute to a great university." 
It was the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, who struck the note of the evening. In a brilliant address against the reformers of the day, especially those who clamor about the evils of football. Father O'Donnell said in part: 
"Surely millions of us are not luna­tics, though there are superior persons who tell us that we are. But never mind. Not all the people who are clamoring for sanity are themselves sane, and most reformers badly need to be reformed. There are so many people in this country rushing in to solve our problem that they them­selves have become one of the most serious problems the country has to solve. 
"I hope they keep their hands off college football at least a little while longer, and I'm not thinking prin­cipally of paying for our new Stadium. No, I'm thinking of this levy of young men which football raises out of a group of three thousand young men, endows them with some collective per­sonality which still leaves each man himself and yet makes the group a unit, and embodies in it the hopes and aspirations, the courage, the daring, the hearty good fellowship, the fine good humor of the thousands in the school they represent." 
There were other great speakers. Coach Alonzo Stagg received a tre­mendous ovation when he stood before the microphones. The entire crowd, cheering enthusiastically, rose to their feet in tribute to the "Father of American Athletics." 
"I like Rockne," began the old mas­ter. "He was one year old when I began to coach. But my, what a genius. I make my bow to him and congratulate him on the wonderful record that he and Notre Dame have made.^ 
"But may I interpose a suggestion. If Notre Dame is going to supply all the coaches in the country remember that they must feel their responsibility to Notre Dame, to 'Rock' and his best teachings. Notre Dame has an unusual responsibility. You must hold up standards. You want people to say 'that is admirable.' 
"I pray to God that this type of men will come out of this institution —^men who are true, men who have courage, men who are fine, men with 

character." 

As he finished the assembly once again rose to its feet in one of the greatest ovations a visiting coach has ever received at Notre Dame. 
Pat Manion, acting as toastmaster, performed his task as only the glib Mr. Manion can perform such tasks. As toastmaster, he introduced the speakers of the evening. There was "Tug" Wilson, athletic director at Northwestern. 
"I think that the best team walked 
off the field a winner on last Novem­
ber 22," he remarked. "Notre Dame 
wins because Notre Dame plays ev­
erything they have every minute. 
There are no soft spots anywhere. A 
great coach and a great team—that's 
Notre Dame. There's great spirit be­
hind that bunch. All honor to your 
team this year—and to Rock." 

Adam Walsh spoke. So did Johnny 
Law. Then there was Knute Rockne. 
He was accorded the greatest recep­
tion that any man has ever received 
in the Notre Dame dining halls. The 
crowd stood, clapped, cheered, roared, 
and refused to be seated. 

"Stagg has done more constructive­
ly for the young men of America than 
any man I can name," he began. 
"And let me add another thing. It's 
about the Notre Dame shift. Jesse ' 
Harper put on the basis of the Notre 
Dame shift twenty years ago from a 
plan he learned from Coach Stagg. 

"Our team this year was a unit, a gang of pals, who were inspired by one another and played for one an­other. I am surprised that they had the ability to play the way,they did, but their organization won for them. 
"I want to give credit to as fine a coaching staff as I have ever had— Hunk, Ike, and Chev." 
He commented upon each of the players individually. Crashing cheers greeted Carideo, O'Connor, Metzger, Schwartz and Brill when their names were mentioned. 
Then with a few appropriate re­marks, he closed his talk. He had completed his football task. The Riss­man trophy had been presented. They had won another national champion­ship. "Rock" could relaxl 
The banquet was arranged by a Committee consisting of the officers of the Club, assisted by the following: William Bergan, Paul Butler, Giles Cain, Bob McAuliffe (chairman of the Reception Committee), G. A. Fara­baugh, Joseph Donahue, Ed Meehan, 
L. A. Kolupa, W. J. Andres and Jack Shively. 



University Theatre Presents 'Twelfth Night'' 
"Twelfth Night," Shakespeare's great comedy, was presented by the University Theatre on the nights of December 17 and 18 in Washington hall under the direction of Professor Frank Kelly. 
Roger Beirne as Malvolio, Harry Merdzinski as Feste, Edward Phelan as Sir Andrew Aguecheek, Joseph Thornton as Sir Toby Belch, Norman Hartzer as Orsino, and the Misses Irene Pyle as Olivia, Julia Huff as Viola and Charlotte Mourer as Maria, were all well cast and able in their parts. The comedy is pretentious and its successful presentation marks a continuing standard in the University Theatre and particularly a commend­able carrying on of the Shakespearean tradition at Notre Dame that goes back to W. H. Crane, James O'Neil, Michael Corby, Alan Dwan, and those other celebrities of the spotlight, three of whom achieved greatness in the drama after leaving Notre Dame. 
The present offering of Twelfth Night is the third Shakespearean pro­duction to be made by the University Theatre. The aim of the University Theatre, not only to produce original dramas written by students but to 
I Births and Marriages { 
<. -> 
Miss Katherine Dorothy Ewing, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. B. Card Ewing, of Spokane, Washington be­came the bride of THOMAS DIL­LINGHAM MOTT, Jr., Ph.B. 'IS; 
LL.B. '24, at 8 o'clock Wednesday evening, November 19, at the Epis­copal Cathedral of St. John the Evan­gelist at Spokane. 
Immediately following the ceremony a reception was held in the home of the bride's parents. After a trip through southern California Mr. and Mrs. Mott are making their home in Los Angeles. 
Mr. Mott is the son of Judge THOMAS D. MOTT, '95, of Los An­geles. 
Mrs. Mary Mahoney announces the marriage of her daughter, Grace Catherine to GEORGE ANTHONY SCHWARZ, '25, on Wednesday, No­vember 12, Belleville, Kansas. 
Miss Adlora Mary Maze, daughter of Mrs. Frances Ann Maze of Moravia was married to ARTHUR K. SUL­LIVAN, '29, on Saturday, October 11th. The ceremony took place at the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
Mrs. Sullivan is a graduate of the University of Minnesota. Mr. Sulli­van is located in Minneapolis, Minn., 
offer them also models from the classics, is thus served. 
The University Theatre has, how­ever, another and what might- be termed a larger aim, than that of offering campus talent in playwriting and acting an outlet of expression. It purposes to serve the entire student body in giving them first class dram­atic entertainment. Entertainment of this kind may at the same time serve the purposes of education. In the case of the present play, for instance, large numbers in the audience will be given perhaps their first opportunity of seeing a Shakespearean comedy. 
Most people, whether they have seen a Shakespearean play or not, think of Shakespeare in terms of "Hamlet" or "Macbeth"; imagine him as always and only tragic. The edu­cational value of such a production as the present lies partly in the service it gives in widening the popular knowledge and appreciation of Shake­speare as the supreme interpreter of human nature in all its phases. One learns that, if he can thrill to the tragic note of Shakespeare in "Ham­let," he can also laugh heartily with him as he sets forth the comical plottings of Sir Toby and Maria. 
and is connected with the Travelers Insurance Company. 
Miss Catherine Gillis, of South Bend, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Clyde Gillis, became the bride of JOHN MARCUS, '30, also of South Bend on November 15, at Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. Miss Eleanore Osborne, Miss Dorothy Marcus and Miss Mary Gillis of South Bend and Miss Kathleen O'SuUivan of Chicago were the bridesmaids and NORMAN HARTZER, '29, Peter Gillis and John Singler were the ushers. PAUL BUTLER, '27, sen-ed as best man. 
Mr. and Mrs. Marcus left immedi­ately for a wedding trip through Wis­consin and are making their home in Joliet, Illinois, where Mr. Marcus is connected with the Standard Oil Com­pany. 
Some of the All-American teams in the 1950's will boast an Anderson guard on the first string. William Heartley Anderson -will play that posi­tion for Notre Dame. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. HEARTLEY "HUNK" ANDERSON who needs no introduc­tion to readers of this magazine. "Hunk" received his degree from Notre Dame in 1922 and is one of "Rock's" right hand men on the coach­ing staff. William Heartley Heartley was bom on Nov. 24, weighed six 
Twelfth Night is perhaps the finest of Shakespeare's high romantic com­edies. Indeed, it is a summation of the earlier comic creation of Shake­speare; young ladies in male disguises, the theme of friendship between men, the device of mistaken identity, love stories ending in romantic marriages,­clever fools and witty servants—^these are not new with our dramatist in 1601, but Twelfth Night is their per­fection. 
The University Theatre is under the patronage of the President, the Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C. The executive committee is composed of Reverend Raymond M. Murch, C.S.C, chairman; Professor F. W. Kelly, production director; Professor Joseph J. Casasanta, musical direc­tor; Professor Charles Phillips and Rufus Ranch, script directors. Stu­dents assisting Professor Kelly at this performance are: Frank McAdams, Daniel Williams, Thomas Gilligan. 
The committee extends is apprecia­tion to Miss Cecilia Young, Mr. Wil­liam Richardson, R. K. 0. Theatres, and the Oliver Hotel. 
Grateful acknowledgment is made to the Misses Julia Huff, Irene Pyle, and Charlotte Mourer. 
pounds and is the first Notre Dame varsity prospect the Andersons have contributed to this school. (Shirley Jean and Joan are candidates for St. Mary's.) 
Another Valker for Notre Dame! HERBERT PATRICK VALKER, '23, is the father of another boy, Thomas Feely, who arrived on November 7th to be playmate to Herbie Pat, Jr. 
A note from Vince Soisson informs the office that LEONARD BURNS, a member of that great class of '25, is the proud father of a mighty fine baby girl, bom on October 28. 
ELROYHABERT,has just reported the birth of Nanette Rita way back in July. Elroy says, "youll have to, charge this laxity of announcement to my inexperience of fatherhood, this being our first. Will write more later, being quite busy now at work and 
at home." 
And now the Dennis O'NEILLS tie the score with the arrival of Ann Elizabeth on November 20. The score is now, Notre Dame 1, St. Mary's 1. Ann Elizabeth weighs seven pounds, two and one-half ounces, and is at home at 16900 Delaware Ave., Lake­wood, Ohio. 
(Continued on Page 156) 

•iiiiitiiiiiiiaa 
Q..,, 
B".. 
1930-31 BASKETBALL 
SCHEDULE, 
Dec. S—^Notre Dame 26. Kalamazoo 15 
Dec 12—Northwestern 42. N. D. 29 
Dec 15—Purdue 34. Notre Dame 22 
Dec 19—Pennsylvania here 
Dec 30—Illinois Wes]e>*an there 
Jan. 3—^Northwestern there 
Jan. 6—Ohio State here 
Jan. 9—^\Vabash there 
Jan. 13—^Marquette here 
Jan. 17—Pennsylvania there 
Jan. 24—Pittsburgh here 
Jan. 31—Open 
Feb. 3—Indiana here 
Feb. 7—Pittsburgh there 
Feb. 13—^Wabash there 
Feb. 21—Butler here 
Feb. 28—Army there 
Mar. 2—Syracuse there 
Mar. 6—Marquette there 
Mar. 10—Butler there 
Mar. 14—Iowa there 
B M .-H 
The 1930-31 Notre Dame basketball 
team has opened the season -ivith two 
losses out of three games to date. 
Which means that our basketball 
team will be more popular in inter­
collegiate circles than some of our 
other teams — until Coach Iveogan 
gets one of his famous combinations 
working. 
Loss of veterans has given the Coach a situation that is taking longer than usual to solve. The team has shown flashes of typical Keogan form, but has suffered from lack of experience and co-ordination. This was especially true in the North­western game when a two-point dif­ference was lost in a shifting com­bination, and a Northwestern forward . shot at liberty under the basket for want of experienced guarding. 
The Keoganites won the opening game from Kalamazoo College, 26-15. De Cook at center was the star of the game. The Mishawaka boy is a smooth all-around player and bolsters the team considerably from all angles. Gavin, Crowe and Newbold are the other veteran members of the squad who look good in the early sessions. So far, all three are forwards, which leaves one of them on the bench to the disadvantage of the score. 
Notre Dame had to step into the big league too fast for the team for­mation. Several football men who have seen service on the court, were held out of practice until the season was under way. Jaskwhich and Staab saw ser\'ice in the Northwestern game. Carideo and Conley are two 




ATHLETICS: 
iiiiiitiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 
Northwestern, largely through the efforts under the basket of a sopho­more, Eieff, piled up a 42-29 final score, after Notre Dame had threat­ened toward the end of the game, bringing the score to 27-29 with five minutes to play. 
The veteran Purdue five was too much for the disorganized N. D. five, and led by Wooden, who was any­thing else but (scoring 21 points per­sonally), they chalked up a 34-22 lictory. 
The ALUMNUS has an idea that when Coach Keogan has his full squad for a few sessions and re­adjusts to fit the weak spots, the last of the season will be a different story. 
Northwestern Gives $100,000 
Unemployment in Illinois benefitted from the gift to Gov. Emerson's com­mission of a check for §100,000 by Northwestern University. The check, however, did not represent an out­right gift by Northwestern. Most Notre Dame followers are familiar with the strings attached. 
The Northwestern authorities, under the inspiration of the Chicago Trib­une, asked to have the Notre Dame-Northwestern game transferred this year from Dyche Stadium to Soldier Field, the surplus income from the sale of tickets over and above the capacity of the Dyche stadium to go to charity. It was agreed to by all parties except the potent committee of the Western Conference, which for­bade the change. 
Northwestern, still inspired, then announced through the Tribune that the 1931 game with Notre Dame, originally scheduled for the Notre Dame Stadium, might be transferred, subject to a change of heart in the Big Ten committee. If so. North­western would immediately advance $100,000 to the Illinois Unemployment Commission, and reimburse itself from the surplus ticket revenue, above the capacity of the Notre Dame Sta­dium, of the game at Soldier Field in 1931. Notre Dame, through Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, agreed on condition that the University be given credit as partial contributors of the fund, and that Northwestern as­sume all of the risk if the crowd next October does not prove large enough to provide reimbursement. North­western has presented the check through its board of trustees and as­
sumed the risk. Apparently so stands it. 


Fourteen Football Men Finish 
Captain Tom Conley, Johnny O'­Brien, Tom Kassis, Bert Metzger, Frank Leahy, Dick Donoghue, and George Vlk are the linemen graduating this year. A like number of back­field men will also be wearing the blue of Notre Dame's grid eleven for the final _time. These backfield men are Frank Carideo, Bemie Leahy, Marty Brill, Bucky O'Connor, Clar­ence Kaplan, Larry MuUins, and Al Howard. 

other veterans of the Iveogan squad THE NEW ST.ADIUJI who may be used. Dedication Crowd—The Season's Greatest, ia,000 

Here and There 

From 0. M. Booher, Alumni Secre­tary at Purdue University, comes a very much appreciated letter to the Editor: 
"This office wishes to extend con­gratulations because of the wonderful success of the 1930 Notre Dame team. Surely you must be exceedingly proud of these boys and their wonderful coach. Mr. Eockne has many friends here at Purdue who respect him as a real gentleman as well as the master of football. The alumni office of your sister state institution Purdue, salutes the Ramblers with unending admira­tion." 
Two more AU-Americans desen-e mention in the ALUMNUS. One is the choice of Lou Little, coach at Co­lumbia U. Little places Brill and Ca­rideo in his backfield with Pinckert and Macaluso. The other selection was a good publicity getter for Bill Cunningham in the Boston Post. Cun­ningham names as his first team the Notre Dame first team. The coaching staff at Washington U., St. Louis, went further and named Rockne's sec­ond and third teams as their second and third AU-American choices and the rest of the squad for honorable mention. The United Press, on its first AU-Westei-n, picked Conley, Metzger, Carideo and Schwartz, with Culver, Yarr and Brill on its second. 
The following rather good verse was inspired in Bob Coyne of the Bos­ton Post by the genius of Frank Ca­rideo, a native of Massachusetts him­self: 

1 m^i-' '^1 
» ?

^ K  ']\ /  ' mV  t.,i.  
/  
-­ ­ "  •'- _  —._  

THE IRISH 


Frank Carideo 

BY BOB COYNE You sure can drill a line, Frank Carideo, Throw a pass and hit a dime, Frank Carideo. With your educated toe You can kick them high or low. You went out and stole the show, Frank Carideo. 
You can dodge and spin and run, Frank Carideo. You're a dangerous son-of-a-gun, 
Frank Carideo, You can come through in a pinch. You're a scrapper—that's a cinch. You're a he-man every inch, 
Frank Carideo. . 

You're a mighty inspiration, Frank Carideo, There in any situation, 
Fi-ank Carideo. So in football's hall of fame, With other stars of Notre Dame, In capital letters write the name, 
Frank Carideo. 


Track Schedule Announced 
As has been his custom since as­suming the position of head track coach at Notre Dame some three or four years ago. Coach John P. Nichol­son has arranged a schedule for his tracksters this season which outdoes all schedules in Notre Dame history in its severity. The season opens the last week in January with the annual Varsity-Freshman meet and does not close until June 7, the final day of the 
• : -xj:-^ 
\
1n 
^


y^v  a^ 
V 

i ^ >

^'^' h 
_ ? ;,, / ;', .
/ 

 COACHING 
Among the old-timers back for Rock's charity games wei-e many iV. D. coaches: Back row, I. to r., Vezie (N. D.); Carberry (Mich. State); Bach (Diiqnestie); Jones (N. D.); Maxwell; Walsh (Yale); Walsh (St. Louis U.); Edivards (St. Vincent) ; Kiley (Ala. Poly.) ; McManmon (Boston Col.) ; Crowley 
(Midi. State); McMitllan; Miller (Ohio State); Connell; Wynne, Hunsinger 
(iVilla Nova). Front row, I. to r., Nash; Laiv (Manliattan); Kizer (Purdue); StulMreher (Villa Nova) ; Gebert (Wichita) ; Elder; Collins; Twomey; Moyni­han (N. D.) 
JoHX P. NICHOLSON, Track Coach 
National Intercollegiates. A lay-off of about a month separates the indoor and outdoor seasons. 
The unofficial schedule follows: 
Indoor 

Jan. 30—^Varsity-Freshman. Feb. 7—^Milrose Games at New York, 
N. Y. Feb. 9—Seton Hall Games at New­ark, N. J. 
Feb. 14—^Marquette, here. Feb. 21—Illinois, at Champaign. Feb. 28—^Indiana, here. Mar. 6 and 7—Central Intercollegiate 
Conference Indoor Cham­pionships, here. Mar. 14—Illinois Indoor Relays, at Champaign. 
Outdoor 

Apr. 19—^Kansas Relays, at Lawrence. Api-. 26—Penn Relays at Philadelphia. Drake Relays at Des Moines. May 2—Wisconsin or Ohio here (ten­
tative) . May 9—^Navy at Annapolis. May 16—Indiana State Meet. May 23—Central Intercollegiate Con­
ference Outdoor Champion­ships, at Milwaukee. May 30—Open. June 6 and 7 — National Intei-coUe­giates, at Chicago. 
^ BOOK REVIEW 4 
ing publications on the campus, and with its specific field it must be an invaluable asset to the students of law. Articles by alumni are frequent. Aaron Huguenard and Henry Hasley are among the Dedicatory contribu­tors. Articles by men high in the profession and not alumni are inter­spersed, and interesting points of extra-curricular law find space to the edification of its readers. 
The Juggler finds its peak, as it so often has, in its Christmas number. The old legend of the Juggler of Notre Dame centered on a Christmas episode, and it seems as though that tradition guides a special talent to the Holiday Number of the magazine each year. The cover by Joe Lopker is a beautiful, colorful piece of work that compares most favorably with the professional field. The humor, as always in the Juggler, is fresh, clean, and much of it close to the campus. The art work inside is creditable. The book stands high in intercol­legiate circles and the staff this year has maintained this reputation. 
The Scholastic closed down for the holidays in a burst of newsiness that startled the oldest inhabitant. The book has enjoyed a renaissance this year as a news medium and aside from the handicaps of its magazine form, it has covered the diverse fields of campus activity with a searching thoroughness that would surprise the staffs of other years. 

Scrip, the literary off-shoot of the Scholastic, is occupying that position with an individual brilliance that has removed the step-mother stain from the older publication. Its literary merit and typographical appearance are a credit to any campus. The latest issue contains a sketch of G. K. Chesterton and an impression of Mr. Chesterton by the Editor, Louis Heit­ger, and a splendid selection of poetry and prose. 
The Catalyzer, that special medium of the department of Chemistry, ap­proaches the alumni of the depart­ment with an appeal this month to contribute from their experiences out­side those valuable points that will smooth' the way for the following undergraduates. The magazine is circulated among alumni, undergrad­uates and faculty members, and, like the Lawyer, contains usually some article from an alumnus pen. 
Huddle, by Francis Wallace, '23, (Farrar & Einehart Inc. N. Y.) is the football fiction Notre Dame men have been waiting for. In New Dominion, the college of the story, anyone who has been at Notre Dame since the war will recognize the campus. In Bar­ney Mack, Frank has put all of his knowledge of and all his admiration for Knute Eockne. 
The author is in a particularly aus­picious position to write about Notre Dame football. For several years he was the contact between Eoek, Notre Dame football and the nation's press. He became thoroughly acquainted with the coach, with the men, with the system and with its relation to campus life. Frank knows Notre Dame. ^ 
The story contains incident after in­cident that any Notre Dame football fan can identify. Familiar names, from Notre Dame history and the ar­chives of the opponents of the last decade or so, spot the story with a welcome and authentic tone. 
Huddle traces the career at New Dominion of Ted Wynne, a quarter­back. In so placing his hero, Frank took upon his shoulders the most dif­ficult and detailed method of outlin­ing Notre Dame football. The field general of Eock's teams, as evidenced in the present AU-American supi-em­acy of Frank Carideo, must know No­tre Dame football next to Eock him­self. That an alumnus can put down Huddle with a sense of having known a satisfactory quarterback is a tribute to Frank's accuracy and knowledge. 
The book reflects several other de­velopments in the Wallace career. In the period since his graduation, Frank has written a number of articles and stories, a number of them dealing with Notre Dame and Notre Dame football. But it remained for this novel to show how deeply woven into the Wallace structure is Notre Dame and all it stands for, and to show that structure profiting immensely from age, experience, and the mellowing of a widening perspective. 
Huddle's romantic side, like Notre Dame's, is somewhat incidental to the brilliant thread of gridiron achieve­ment, and derives its strength from the proximity of the famous "school across the way." 
Frank's alumni are unfortunately, for the most part, seen only on those emotional occasions attending a big game, and as such present a picture of Notre Dame's alumni more emo­tional than actual, but that is in the scope of the story, and, as a phase of alumni life, probably in full keeping with the author's wide experience. Frank's mileage with the Notre Dame teams rivals, over a shorter period, that of the famous Morrie Starrett. 
The ALUMNUS recommends Htiddle. 

Anyone who knows Notre Dame foot­
ball will like it. The Army game of 
1928, the Army game of 1929, and 
several other big moments of recent 
years are relived by the characters 
of its pages. You think you see El­
der, Brill, Carideo, Niemic, and older 
heroes whom Wallace knew as class­
mates. 
Farrar & Einehart have done a nice publishing job on the book, enabling its sale at one dollar. Notre Dame men will derive far more pleasure from it than that. Bock himself has praised it highly, and a number of Barney Mack's talks and phrases at New Dominion smack strongly of the authorship of the Old Man. 
The 13-10 Football Review has come from the press with its stories of the new glory of a team that found new-heights. Its details leave little to be desired from an informational view­point, and figures prominent in the world of sport, especially Notre Dame's world, fill the remaining pages with inspirational messages of con­gratulations. This team of 1930 which refused to sit down and weep because it had no more worlds to conquer, but went out and found new worlds and then conquered them, can appreciate the splendid job of reporting and praising done by the editors of the new volume, Joseph S. Petritz, August Bondi, Richard Donoghue, Thomas Kassis. 
Contributors include Knute K. Eockne, Captain Tom Conley, Francis Wallace, Arch Ward, Warren Brown, Jack Elder, Feg Murray, Jack Can­non, John "Clipper" Smith, Frank Carideo, Eobt. Gorman, Neil Hurley, Edwin G. Britz, John Kiener, Bobert Balfe, Frank McAdams, Art Kane, Arthur "Bud" Boeringer and James 
E. Armstrong. 
The Notre Dame Lawyer, ofiicial publication of the students of the Col­lege of Law, has just issued a Dedi­catory Number, with a full and inter­esting series of illustrations of the beautiful new Law Building. The Volume also contains an interesting article by Gilbert K. Chesterton. The Lawyer has become one of the lead­
Where There's a WiH"—Comph'cations Often Arise 
(With the hope that Notre Dame alumni are constantly considering one of the finest dispositions of an estate or any part thereof, the ALUMNUS reprints for individual convenience the following provisions that will expedite the carrying out of the ivishes of the benefactors and avoid jmnecessary legal delays or compli­cations. The attention to these provisions is especially urged upon Notre Dame attorneys who undoubtedly assist ill making hundreds of wills. In connection with the general Living Endowmeiit campaign, there is no greater—and frequently no more profitable—way in which attorneys in particular can add to the resoiirces of Notre Dame.) 
FORMS OF BEQUESTS 
For the convenience of those who wish to incorpo rate into their wills provisions for the purpose of aiding 
the University of Notre Dame, the following forms of  bequests  are  suggested:  
General  Gift  
I hereby give and bequeath to the University of  Notre Dame du Lac the sura  of $  :  , to be  
used  as  the trustees  thereof  may deem advisable for  the benefit of said institution.  
General Gift—Income Only to Be  Used  
I  hereby give and  bequeath  to  the University  of Notre Dame du Lac the  sum  of S  , to be  

held in trust, and the net income only to be used as the trustees thereof may deem advisable, for the benefit of the institution. 
Gift for Particular Purposes—Principal to Be Used 
I hereby give and bequeath to the University of Notre Dame du Lac the sum of S , the prin-. cipal and income thereof to be devoted to (here insert particular purpose desired). 
Gift for Particular Purposes—Income Only to Be Used 
I hereby give and bequeath to the University of Notre Dame du Lac the sum of S , to be held in trust and the net income only to be used for (here insert particular purpose desired). 
SUGGESTED PROVISIONS Legal Investments 
In all cases where a trust is created the following clause is suggested: 
"The Trustees shall not be required to confine the investment of moneys belonging to this trust to what are known as legal securities, but may exercise their best judgment and discretion therein with the same authority as if made by an individual acting in his own right." 
New but Kindred Purposes 

In cases of trusts for special purposes, in order that the University may have the benefit of funds con­tributed for these specially designated purposes after the need for which the contribution was made no longer exists, the following clause is suggested: 
"The Trustees may in their absolute and uncontrolled discretion at any time detei-mine that the par­ticular purpose for which the said trust is created no longer needs the principal or income, or both (as the case may be) thereof, and thereupon by resolution declare new but kindred uses to which said principal and income, or both (as the.case may be), shall be applied." 
HOW SAVINGS IN TAXES MAY BE EFFECTED 
The following points should be considered in making gifts to the University of Notre Dame in order that full advantage may be taken of the present Tax Laws designated to encourage such gifts and so effect possi­ble savings in taxes: 
Federal Income Tax Deductions 

The Federal Incom.e Tax Law permits a deduction of such gifts iip to 1-5% of the donor's net income before deducting the total amount of such gifts. 
Where the total of the proposed gift is in excess of 15% of the donor's net income for one year, before deducting the amount of such gifts it may be advantageous to the donor to spread the payments on account of the gift or gifts over two or more years. Gift of Securities Showing Appreciation in Value 
Under present regulations of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, a donor owning securities which cost him, for e-xample, S2,500 and having a present market value of §10,000, may give them to the University and obtain a deduction on his federal income tax return equal to the present market value (S10,000) without showing the increase in value as a taxable gain. Life Insurance Premiums 
Should a donor desire to insure irrevocably his life for the benefit of the University, the premiums paid on such a policy are regarded as deductible donations. 
Federal Estate Tax 

The Federal Estate Tax Law pei-mits a deduction on the Federal Inheritance Tax return of all gifts, bequests and devises by will to the University. 
0..  iiii*ni*tiitiii*iiiniit)iM)ii*iiitiiiiii  "EJ  
Around and About the Campus  By John A.Kiener, "32  
Q..  • ItlllllHIIUIIllltllllllllll  •iQ  

THE VICTORY MARCH Ten tough games and every one a victory . . . students all tense and nervous . . . time for the last one with Southern California . . . radio sets working overtime . . . the open­ing whistle is heard . . . the roar of the crowd is great but in the gym­nasium, halls or individual rooms where the huddle is most extensively used there goes up a unison of prayer . . . and then the final touchdown . . . final score 27 to 0, they say . . . "Greatest team in years" . . . "Rockne brought the finest squad the west coast has ever seen" . . . "Captain Conley's boys not only upset Southern California but the strong prejudice of the westerners also" . . . and so on through the list . . . By Wednesday the students have sufficiently recovered from the excite­ment to greet the team at the rail­road station. Snake dances, near-riots, speeches, and a thousand and one different forms of celebration; the town is theirs for a day, and they make the most of it. 
CRASHERS PREDOMINANT And then down to serious business once more. The Northwestern game found many doing the "One-Eyed Connolly" act . . . stadium holding 48,000 was found to have capacity of about 53,000 for that day — approxi­mately a thousand students found en­trance by "hook or by crook." Return­ing from that week-end many went home for the Thanksgiving vacation while others braved the elements and watched the Fighting Irish slosh to a 7-6 ^\•in over the Sasse soldiers in clammy, messy Soldier Field. The rest bit their thumbs and chewed finger nails to the accompaniment of Ted Husing's rapid-fire eloquence. 
KEOGANITES ATTACK Coach Keogan breaks into the sport picture as his charges bump into Kal­amazoo college . . . "AppuU" still there in the gym selling his wares to the students who turn out en masse because there was no school that day. Feast of the Immaculate Conception being the immediate reason. 
THE LIBRARY "FIRE" Student pranks still working over­time as South Bend fire department rushes to Lemmonnier library in an­swer to request. Someone suggests that perhaps a quiz set for that par­ticular hour may have been the rea­son—^but true to the legend—^the fire department came . . . just as the quiz was completed. 
GLEE CLUB Glee Club under Joseph Casasanta again tests its stentorian accords at Chicago during Army game celebra­tions by appearing over two programs in one night, with Knute Rockne do­ing his "stuff" over the Armour hour program. 
'MORNIN' ALBERT Albert A. Albert, the genial guar­dian of the campus leaves and -leav­ings, reports that business is "picking up" and that this is the best fall he has had. 
CO.MMERCE BUILDING Dean McCarthy is wreathed in smiles as he conjures new Commerce building so generously donated by Ed­ward N. Hurley of Chicago . . . the class of 1932 is happy; they have plans of being the first class to graduate from the new building. 
DEBATERS AND DEBATE Forensic activities fighting for prominence on the campus . . . even the halls get together in their annual debates for the fifth time for posses­sion of the Lfimmer trophy, which is emblematic of victory in this field. Varsity debaters also get busy with preliminaries holding sway; Breen medal contest under way and fore­most campus orators strive for high honor. 
CAMPUS CHANGES Publications "break" with many new announcements. Harley Mc-Devitt, '29, bids campus good-bye as he leaves for the east and a position with the Conde Nast Publications, Inc. John F. Stoeckley, '25, new ap­pointee, says hello to various mem­bers with coincidental announcement of shake-up of Scholastic staff with promises of better magazine, in an attempt to make it a better than bet­ter book. 
ACTORS ACTIVE 
University Theater again steps to front of stage with new production, "Twelfth Night," one of Shakesepare's best comedies. Professor Fjrank Kelly drilling his proteges finds a wealth of good material which bids fair for an­other success like "Journey's End." "Twelfth Night" goes on as Christ­mas bit, to be presented just before vacation period. Mr. Kelly informs the students that theiy are all "wet" if they believe firmly that they in­vented "goofing parties." Shake­speare's "Twelfth Night" is one of the greatest "goofing parties" in history. Professor Kelly tells us. 
GRIDDERS' GABFEST 
St. Joe Valley Club livens up campus Avith its annual banquet hon­oring Knute Rockne and his band of conquering Fighting Irish, who stepped along to their nineteenth con­secutive victory. Largest crowd in history present in dining hall to hear prominent speakers extol and elabor­ate on the Notre Dame "Six or Seven Four Horsemen" of 1930. 
INSANE INSPECTED 
Probation students make trip to state insane asylum at Logansport, Indiana. Luckily no one of the 35 students was left behind and no trou­ble incurred during the inspection trip. They were men majoring in the department of sociology and proba­tion, but there was uncertainty re­garding the rimior that some of the campus' better punsters were taken along also for "inspection." 
AIR-.AIINDED MINNESOTANS 
"Minnesotans get air-minded" is ex­traordinary announcement. The Min­nesota club intends to charter several plans for the carriage of impatient Minnesotans home for the Christmas holidays. 
OLD-TI.MERS RETURN 
Campus is inhabited by "ghosts" of old. Many old-timers return to get into condition for the several charity games about the country featuring former Notre Dame stars. "Hunk" Anderson and his coterie gathered Thanksgiving day in Soldier Field against a band of former North­western all-stars. 
FRESH.AIAN FALTERS 
Bald heads not uncommon on the campus . . . faltering freshman turns in guess at w. k. South Bend store with Southern California as prospec­tive winner of Los Angeles battle . . . New owner of freshly-shaven bald head now knows what it means to be overseen by impetuous upperclassmen. (Note—the lakes were frozen over.) 
VICISSITUDES 
Cans rattle, noise increases, rectors become more worried, and particular "cain" is raised—all because vacation is only a week or so distant. Classes go on nevertheless and students study. They all join in saying, "Merry Christmas." 
And so to press! 

Malloy Appointed 

Announcement was made Dec. 3 by-Edward H. Chandler, general counsel of Sinclair Oil and Gas Company, of the retention of Pat Malloy, LL.B. '07, of Tulsa as special counsel, with head­quarters in Tulsa. The statement of Mr. Chandler follows: 
"Effective December 1, 1930, Mr. Pat Malloy of Tulsa, Okla., became associated with Sinclair Oil and Gas Company, legal department, as special counsel. His representation of the company will include, among other special matters, his membership on the various oil proration committees in Oklahoma, Texas and Kansas. Mr. Malloy will be the official representa­tive of Sinclair Oil and Gas Company before the various committees, com­missions, and producers dealing with the problems of proration, and with such assistance as he may desire from other members of the Sinclair or­ganization in Tulsa. 
"The long and active experience of Mr. Malloy in the oil industry, and in all its branches, together with his well-known legal attainments, in­duced the company to seek and secure his services in this special capacity. Mr. Malloy's headquarters will be in Tulsa and he will retain his pi-esent offices at 1506 Philtower." 
Malloy has been a well-known figure in the oil industry for nearly 20 years. He has been identified as an executive with all branches of the business — production, refining and marketing, both domestic and export. In 1909, with the late Captain Constantin, he organized the Con­stantin Refining Company. He be­came general counsel in 1915 and Ijresident of the reorganized company 
Q.. 

ALUMNI CLUBS 
QM 
Campus Clubs reach their peak dur­ing the Christmas holidays. This peak is usually symbolized by a social affair, dinner or dance, or both. Fol­lowing is reprinted a list of those announced. In many cases they repre­sent a commendable get-together be­tween the campus clubs and the alumni. In a few instances both organizations have been embarrassed by a failure to look ahead. But these are pioneering difficulties that we feel sure time will erase satisfactorily. Alumni, who have the community to themselves a large part of the year, are asked to use the surplus which age and experience has placed in head and hand to help the younger group, who, in the scheme of things, will very soon be inducted into the larger and more important organization. 
which took over these properties. In 1926, with the late J. J. McGraw and John H. Markham, jr., he purchased all the properties of the reorganized concern and in 1927, by purchase from his partners, became the sole owner of the properties which include producing and undeveloped leases in .Arkansas, Oklahoma and Kansas. These properties were transferred to Malloy and company, a corporation, which now owns and opei-ates them. 
Under the arrangement with the Sinclair Oil and Gas Company, Malloy retains a supervisoiy control of the business of Malloy and Company. E. 
R. Kincade succeeds him as president of the concern and will have the active management of the properties, under the supervision of Malloy, who be­comes the treasurer of the company. 
Jlalloy has been vei-y active in the associational effort of the American petroleum industry. He was for two terms president of the Western Petro­leum Refiners' Association, a member of the war service committee for re­fining and export, a charter member of the Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association and the American Pe­troleum Institute, and was chaix-man of the Oklahoma delegation to the national petroleum conference called by President Hoover at Colorado Springs in June, 1929. He also is a director of the Independent Oil Asso­ciation of .America. 
Malloy is in great favor through­out the country as an informed and eloquent speaker on industrial, eco­nomic and political questions. 
The i-etention of Malloy as special counsel for the Sinclair interests came as a considerable surprise to the oil industiy of the Mid-Continent in 
.AKROX CLUB—January 3, University club. University Revellers, 10 to 2, ?5.00. 
.A..NTHRACITE CLUB—December 26, Cen­tury club (Scranton, Pa.), Sid Campbell and his orchestra, 10 to 2, 53.50. 
AUBURN' CLUB—December 25, Osborne hotel (Pompeian room), Lariy Hai-­rington's orchestra, 10 to 3, $3.50. 
BUFFALO CLUB — December 30, Hotel Statler (Terrace room). Shea's Buffalo theater stage band, 10 to 2, ?3.50. 
CALUJIET CLUB — December 30, Gary hotel (Gary, Ind.), S3.00. 
CHICAGO CLUB — December 30, Con­gress hotel (Balloon and Gold rooms). Tweet Hogan's and Johnny 
general, and it is assumed that final arrangements whereby he accepted the commission were effected during 
H. F. Sinclair's recent visit to Tulsa with other members of the organiza­tion from New York and Tulsa. 
The recent rapid expansion of the company by the disposal of their in­terest in the Sinclair Crude Oil Fur-chasing Company recently to the Standard Oil company of Indiana and the construction of their own lines, the increased production and tankage now being built by them, with in­creased refining capacity brought about by the acquisition of the Pierce Petroleum corporation, places Sinclair among the major oil refining and dis­tributing companies of the world. 
Mr. Malloy, who received an LL.B. in 1907 from Notre Dame, was presi­dent of the Alumni Association in 1919-20. 
College President Visits 

President Schlosser of Elizabeth-town College, Elizabethtown, Pa., paid Notre Dame University a recent visit as the guest of Professor Martinez. Mr. Schlosser remarked that he was imbued with a most kind and gener­ous campus spirit that made him feel as though he were amid these sur­roundings for years. 
Students of Spanish were given the opportunity of hearing Mr. Schlosser whose great personality and clever wit, intermingled with most sincere thoughts, made the gathering delight­ful. _ 
Mr. DeVault, as a spokesman for the class, thanked Mr. Schlosser and asked him to carry to Elizabethtown College the sincere appreciation of the class. 
••Q 

Hamp's orchestras, 9:30 to 2:30, 
§5.00. 
CLEVELAND CLUB—December 29, Mid-Day club. Jack Chapman's orches­tra, 10 to 3, ?5.00. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY CLUB—^Decem­ber 29, Hotel Bond (Hartford), Bill Tasillo and his College Inn orches­tra, 10 to 2, $5.00. 
DETROIT CLUB — December 29, Hotel Statler, Myron Schulz and his Royal Peacocks, 9 to 1, |6.00. 
EAST PENN CLUB — December 26, Hotel Ferguson (Shenandoah, Pa.), Nick Nichols and his orchestra, 9 to 1, ?3.50. 
GRAND RAPIDS CLUB — December 27, Pantlind hotel, Dwain Yates and his orchestra, 9 to 2, $1.50. 
iNDiAXAPOLis CLUB — December 29, Hotel Antler, Charlie Da%is and his orchestra, dinner dance, §6.00. 
METROPOLITAN- CLUB — December 29, Hotel Biltmore (Cascade room), Bert Lown's orchestra, 10 to 3. 
lIixxESOTA CLUB—December 26, Hotel Lowry (St. Paul), Ted Weems' orchestra, 10 to 2, $5.00. (Date and orchestra tentative.) 
NEW JERSEY CLUB — December 26, Newark Athletic club, Wherlan's Ambassadors, 9 to 2, §6.00. 
PHILADELPHIA CLUB — December 26, Manufacturers' club, Jimmy Tyson's orchestra, 10 to 2, S4.00. 
VILLAGERS' CLUB—December 26, Pal­ais Eoyale ballroom, Wayne King and his orchestra, 9 to 1. 
AVABASH VALLEY CLUB—December 25, Elks' club (Peru, Ind.), 9 to 1, §2.00. 
YouxGSTOWx CLUB—December 26, the Chatterbox in the Stambaugh audi­torium. Jack Horwitz and his or­chestra, 9 to 2, §3.00. 
ARICANSAS 
Rev. G. F. X. Strassner, President of the Arkansas Club, recently sent a card to the N. D. men in the Club territory that warmed the heart of the Editor. For the benefit of anyone who may have missed it and as a sly hint to the other clubs — here t'is (with apologies to Little Jack Little): 
"Everj- Notre Dame Alumnus must be proud of the N. D. football team of this Fall. 
"Listen to the N. D. Glee Club this Friday night, the 2Sth, for one hour, 5:30, from Chicago, WMAQ, or Cin­cinnati, WLW or WOE, Newark, -At 
8:30 on the NBC presentation of the Armour Hour. "The November ALUMNUS is a dandy. 
April 20??? George F. X. Strassner, 
President of the Arkansas N.D. Club." 
BUFFALO 
The ever faithful Paul Hoeffler sends in the following: 
"Dear Jim: "Well we will sneak under the wire again this month. "Publicity sure pays. Remember last month the ALUMNUS printed about the prowess of Vince Hanrahan at a bridge table. Yesterday Vince dropped into the Office all 'het up' over the many challenges he has had in the past three weeks. 
"President Ed Lutz and party drove 
up to Chicago to see the battle of the 
mud. 
"Herm Centlivre and his wife were 
over to the house the other evening 
to play cards . . . hearts was the game 
and what a whiz he is, but I suppose 
that comes from practice. You know 
he is married and his wife would like 
to have this known just to show what 
good cooking will do. You know that 
picture 'before and after' . . . well, 
have the boys look 'Herm' over the 
next time they see him. 
"Saw Jack Brennan's big boy. Some baby! And are Ma and Pa Brennan. proud! They are home every evening with the exhibit. 'Drop in anytime, we'll be home' is their little ditty now. 
"Joe Angelino, '29, is a promising attorney in our great metropolis. He always promises to see you soon, but his business is rushing and pretty soon Joe will be Judge. What a break the boys will get then. 
"One of those bum engineers that was turned out in '23, Ed Baker, came and spent Thanksgiving with us. He is my brother-in-law . . . and we wanted to see my sister . . .' 
" 'Biff' Lee is now the mystery man in Buffalo's football world. He is here and he is there on lectures, con­ferences, radio, and free meals at friends' homes. It must be wonderful to be great like that, eh, Jim 1 (Edi­tor's note: Is that a dirty crack, Paul?) 
"Next month the new officers vrill get a break. Remember, December 13 is the big day. A few days later we will see and hear Rock. After Christ­mas the boys are going to have the Christmas dance . . . haven't any real information on that, but if anybody should be in Buffalo over the holidays they had better get in touch with us. You know, a good time will be had by all .. . and that includes you, Jim. 
Paul" 
CINCINNATI 
The special train sponsored by the Club for the Army game must have been derailed enroute. No word has been forthcoming since the game. President Ed McHugh was sighted by one of the ALUMNUS "scouts" in the lobby of the Stevens so we are presuming that the Cincinnati contin­gent arrived without serious accident. 
DETROIT 
The Detroit Club held a broadcast party the afternoon of the Southern California game. While listening to the radio returns members and their friends enjoyed the Canadian scenery from the windows of the Scottish Rite Temple, Windsor, Ont. 
The annual holiday dance given by the students will be held this year the evening of Dec. 29 at the Hotel Statler. The tax will be §6 a couple. 
Tickets will be in the hands of the 
officers of the club. 
Harry F. Kelly is the new assistant 
prosecutor for Wayne County (De­
troit). With the experience gained 
as states attorney a few years ago in 
LaSalle County, 111., Harry stepped 
into the ranks in Detroit without 
much ado. His first job was to gather 
together the loose ends of the Buckley 
grand jury investigation, an inquiry 
which was almost ready to lapse. 
Since then the machinery around the 
grand jury room has been humming. 
The Kellys seem to have it these days. Raymond J. Kelly has become claims attorney for the Department of Street Railways, one of Detroit's im­portant legal posts and during the brief Bowles administration a center of contention. Ray is a past com­mander of the department of Mich­igan, American Legion. 
PARIS 
The following very interesting let­ter from Rev. Philip Moore, C.S.C, '24, will be of interest to the alumni: 
"My dear Jim: 
"I found an ALUMNUS sometime ago and almost ate the cover off it .. . at least the inside was thoroughly devoured. This whetted the appetite for more, and I would be happy to be put on your mailing list. Fifteen months in Paris have found me de­pendent upon the New York Herald (Paris edition) for the greater part of my news of Notre Dame. Hence I could tell you about the string of splendid victories N. D. has won so far this year on the football field, but not much of the many other fine things the school is doing. 

"There is not much Notre Dame news from Paris. Pat Harl commutes between the office of the New York Herald, of which he is night editor, and his home in one of the suburbs. Several Notre Dame men passed through during the summer, including Fathers Schumacher and Maguire, Judge and Mrs. Eggeman from Fort Wayne and Vince Fagan with his . charming young ^vife. If any N. D. men of past or present are coming our way during the year, have them look up Pat Harl and me, and we shall be only too glad to render any little service possible. 
"Accept my very best wishes for the future and sincere congratula­tions for past accomplishments in the Alumni Association. 
Sincerely, 
Philip Moore, C.S.C, 
24 i-ue Cossette, 
Paris, VI, France." 
PHILADELPHIA 
The dance given by the Philadelphia Club after the Penn game proved as successful as the game itself. A Vic­tory Ball in every sense of the word, attracting practically all the alumni from the East who were in Philadel­phia for the game (and was there any alumnus in the East who wasn't in Philadelphia!) to the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel to meet and rejoice. John Kelly, Secretary-Treasurer of the Club very modestly says: "Of course after such a game our little affair could not hope to be much more than an incident in a great day. But it was a peach of a little party and I think much enjoyed. There were about 450 couples present and they danced and talked and talked about the game and former games until the band fi­nally stopped at one o'clock. We had a lucky number dance with a football autographed by the members of the team as the prize and as for the in­terest in this you would have thought we were giving a million dollars away." 

This should give Philadelphia a running start for 1931. 
ROCHESTER 

Instead of the regular dinner dance the Club is planning a stag dinner party to be held at the Brooklyn Country Club on December 27. Clint Lintz, the Secretary, wants some Notre Dame songs and cheers, so prospects for the party look particu­larly bright. More later. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 

The Notre Dame Club of San An­tonio was burning the wires betiveen San Antonio and South Bend trying to arrange for the team to stop off in San Antonio on the way to the coast. Unfortunately, arrangements could not be completed. Those head­ing the attack were the Mayor of San Antonio, Chamber of Commerce and Joseph A. Menger, president of the Notre Dame Club. 
According to a newspaper clipping from the Southwest the Club was to have met in the Gunter Hotel on Fri­day night, November 28, to listen to Coach Rockne and to the Notre Dame Glee Club broadcast over a nation­wide hook-up. 
A recent note from Joe Menger in­forms the office that the Club was able to listen to the broadcast of the Army, Northwestern and Southern California games. This should have been sufficient to shatter the nerves of even the coolest Te.xan. 
SYRACUSE 

E. C. Schonlau, President of the Syracuse and Central New York alumni, paid the Alumni Office a visit during his trip to tho Middle West recently. Unfortunately, the Editor was out of the office. He regrets ex­ceedingly that he missed the oppor­tunity of a visit with the Club repre­sentative. Better luck next time. 
A letter from Mr. Schonlau, written just before leaving South Bend, in­forms us that a business trip brought him to Chicago in time for the N. D.-Northwestem game. (Funny how these business trips always come at such opportune times.) 
TOLEDO 

The Notre Dame Club of Toledo an­nounce the following new officers: 
President: John P. Hurley, '25; 
Vice-President: Frank Lockard, '19; 
Treasurer: Arthur Suder, '25; 
Secretary: Ben Resting, '25. 
(Hooray for the 25ers) 
The above cheer is from the pen of Ben Kesting. Don't blame the Editor. 
Ben also adds the following dope: 
"On December 6, the local N. D. alumni had a get-together to hear the Southern California game over the radio, which was some battle. After the game we had supper which was followed by a meeting and elec­tion of officers. We were honored by the presence of Professor Phillips of Notre Dame who gave an interesting talk on the recent visit to the Univer­sity of Gilbert K. Chesterton." 
TW m CITIES 

A large working majority of the Twin City Notre Dame Club left the Soo line Notre Dame special Satur­day, Nov. 29 in Chicago to help Schwartz put over that touchdown and Carideo boot that ^vinning point: —also to witness the West Pointers place that slithering, slushy slide over our goal line and the dismay among the rugged defenders of tWs fair land of ours in missing a 50-50 score of unbeatables. 
"If Army hadn't been in such a hurry it might have fared the way of the meeting of irresistibles by calmly timing out for a huddle, conferring, talking things over and agreeing to divide up even. 
"The Club will listen in to the Notre Dame-Southern California game at the Town and Country Club this Sat­urday per long range special, trust­ing that Notre Dame will return, the unbeaten eleven. 
• Louis P. Schute, Secretary." 
UTAH 

News from the Salt Lake district has been missing from these columns for several months. The explanation is found in the following clippings which were forwarded to this office from Salt; Lake City: 
"Appointment of Raymond R. Brady, Salt Lake attorney (Ed's note: And President of the Utah Club) as corresponding secretary of the state Republican organization to have charge of the Republican state head­quarters, was announced by Imer Pett, chairman of the Republican state committee, and Lincoln G. Kelly, secretary. 
"Mr. Brady will devote his entire time to organizing and directing party affairs throughout the state, under the direction of the state chairman. 
"Mr. Brady is well known in pro­fessional and political circles. In Jan­uary 1927, he was appointed assistant county attorney for Salt Lake county and served in that capacity until Jan­uary, 1929. He is now a member of the law firms of Marks, Brady & Acheson. He is a member of the American Bar association, the Utah State and Salt Lake Bar association, the University club, and the Bonne­ville club. 
"He has been actively identified in Republican party affairs since his ad­mission to the bar. Recently, he was elected state advocate of the Utah council of the Knights of Columbus." 
A letter from Ray promises more material for the magazine. He says: "Now that I am back on the job,' I have a little time for things that are near and dear to my heart, and par­ticularly to getting our club re­organized and functioning again. If at all possible I am going to try to make the game with Southern Cali­fornia early next month as we are going to have a big delegation down there. We may charter a special car the way things look now." 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANLA. 

George Kingsley writes from Pitts­burgh: 
Just a short letter to let you know that the Notre Dame Club of Western Pennsylvania is rapidly becoming one of the best organizations of its kind. The success of the Club so far is very gratifying to all of us. 
"The Club entertained the Notre Dame Football Team after the game last week, and we were mighty proud to have this honor, especially after the crushing defeat our boys handed Pitt. A large Football Dinner-dance was held after the game, in the Eng­lish Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, and it proved to be another Notre Dame victory. Pittsburghers are very high in their praise of Rockne and his boys, and all are now ardent rooters for them to come through their re­maining games, undefeated. 
"The weekly luncheons are still held at Gimbel's Dining Room, Sixth and Smithfield Streets, every Thurs­day, at 12:15 P. M. 
"Wishing you continued success and hoping to hear from you soon. 
Sincerely, George H. Kingsley, Jr." 

••tiiiiitiiMiiaiii 

E "B 
Q.. 
Deatlis 
« 
FRANCIS JOSEPH REITZ, a mem­ber of the Board of Lay Trustees of the University of Notre Dame, died in Evansville, Indiana, December 11. Mr. Reitz was a retired banker and was known for his philantrophy and prom­inence as a layman in the Roman Catholic church. 
Death came to Mr. Reitz at the home of a sister, Miss Christiana Reitz, with whom he lived. He had suffered from heart trouble for two years and a recent attack of influenza brought on a state of coma from which he never rallied. 

In 1925 Mr. Reitz was rewarded with the highest honor for laymen within the power of the church, re­cei\-ing the title of commander of the Order of Pius IX. He was the third individual in the United States to re­ceive the honor. 
Starting his career as a bank mes­senger at the age of 12, Mr Reitz in later years became bank president in Evansville, holding the position until he retired at the age of 83. The ALUMNUS extends the sympathy of the Association. 
The ALUMNUS regrets to an­nounce the death of JOHN M. GEAR­IN, B.S. '71; M.S. '74 and LL.D. '03, the oldest living graduate on the -Alumni records, ex-United States sen­ator, and prominent Portland attor­ney, who died in Portland, November 12, at the age of 79, following several years illness. 
Senator Gearin was born in Uma­tilla county, Oregon, August 15, 1851, his parents being pioneers. After his graduation from Notre Dame he was admitted to the Oregon bar, practicing his profession for 57 years. Upon being admitted to practice he immedi­ately interested himself in politics, a subject which interested him until his term as United States senator ex­pired. At the age of 23 he was a member of the Oregon legislature and when 24 years of age he was city at­torney of Portland, and was the demo­cratic nominee for congress when he had reached his 27th year. Defeated for congress, the young man was elected district attorney for Multno­mah countv, sening from 1SS4 to 1886. 
During the prosecution of the opium smuggling cases in 1893 he was ap­pointed a special prosecutor by the government. 

^THE ALUMNI 
Following the death of John H. Mitchell, United States senator, Mr. Gearin was appointed to fill the un­expired term, the appointment being made by Governor George E. Cham­berlain. 
Mr. Gearin was a gifted speaker, and was regarded at one time as the most capable orator in the state. With the exception of his short experience as a member of the senate, the entire career of Senator Gearin was confined to his native state. He was long a member of the most celebrated law firm Oregon has known, that of Simon, Gearin, Humphreys & Freed. 
He is sui-\-ived by three children, Hugh, Walter and Grace, all of Port­land. Funeral services were held at St. Mary's cathedral. Burial was in Mount Calvary cemeterj'. 
EDWARD H. JEWETT, '94, retired automobile manufacturer of Pontiac, Michigan, died unexpectedly at his Winter home in Melbourne, Florida on November 22, after a short illness of pleurisy. He was 56 years old. 
Mr. Jewett was bom in Elmira, 

N. Y., on April 26, 1874. He received his degree of Bachelor of Science from Notre Dame and soon afterward entered business as a coal merchant with his brother, Harry, the firm sub­sequently becoming, after several name changes, the Jewett, Bigelow & Brooks Company of Detroit, of which Mr. Jewett was president for years. This company owned and controlled a score of mines. 
At one time Mr. Jewett and his brothers owned the controlling inter­est in the Paige-Detroit Motor Car Company, of which he became a di­rector. More recently he had turned his attention to radio supplies of var­ious sorts. In 1923 a syndicate headed by him purchased approximately ?1, 000,000 of the holdings of Dr. Lee De Forest in the De Forest Radio Telephone and Telegraph Company, of which Mr. Jewett was elected presi­dent. At that time he was president of the Jewett Phonograph Company. 
During the World War Mr. Jewett 

was a member of the shipping Board, 
with headquarters in Detroit. 
He is survived by his widow, Mrs. 

Winifred Kingbury Jewett;one daugh­
ter, Mrs. Dan Daiis; his mother, Mrs. 
Gertrude M. Jewett, and a brother, 
Harry M. Jewett. 
DR. JOHN S. BOYER, '20, Detroit physician, died in Detroit on Novem­
ber 21, after an illness of only three days of pneumonia. He attended the University of Michigan, where he was graduated in 1924, after receiving his Bachelor of Science at Notre Dame. Dr. Boyer was a member of the health department of the board of education and was junior surgeon at Providence hospital, where he had ser\-ed his intemeship. 
Funeral services were held at the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. Burial was in South Bend. 
The funeral party accompanying the body included Dr. Boyer's sister. Miss Gladys Boyer; his fiance. Miss Dorothy Began, to whom he was to be married during the coming holiday season; and Miss Bogan's parents, Dr. and Mrs. James H. Bogan. 
The .A.LUMNUS -nishes to e.\tend sincere sympathy to CHARLES JUDGE, '27, whose father lost his life in an explosion in his factory in New York; to Professor JAMES F. HINES, '09, whose mother died recently; and to EDWARD ENGLAND, '30, who lost his mother several weeks ago. 
-« 
i Marriages <> « Miss Pauline Lytle of Charleston, West Virginia and JOSEPH NOR­TON, '28, of Yonkers, N. Y., were married on November 26th, at Charleston. Mr. and Mrs. Norton are at home at 28 Highland Place, Yon­kers, N. Y. 
Tom Farrell (he's still single) re­ports this from the wilds of New Jer­sey: 
"JIM SILVER was married recent­ly and is now probably seasick some­where on the Atlantic on his way to Savannah. Jim Quinn was best man and "Red" Smith, Jim Waldron and I added dignity to the occasion by acting in the capacity of ushers. Last Wednesday, Jim Quinn gave a bache­lor dinner for him needless to say, plentiful advice was bestowed upon the bridegroom-to-be, even by "we bachelors." 
And just as the ALUMNUS goes to press comes the announcement that causes panic in the Alumni Office. VINCENT ENGELS, '23, formeriy of the English department at Notre Dame and until recently a member of the editorial staff of Commonweal in New York City, was married to Miss Mary Aloise Emery on December 15, Chevy Chase, Maryland. 

BiHhs 

Paul Hoeffler includes the following announcement in his letter: 
"CLYDE SCHAaiEL, '27, is a real simon pure papa himself .. . a girl for the Schamel's." 
JAKE PUECELL, '26, of the New-Jersey Purcells, joins the floor-walk­ing crew. A bouncing young lady of we don't know how many pounds ar­rived a couple of months ago . . . ac­cording to our friend and adviser, Tom Farrell. 
Engagements 

The engagement of Miss Clara Weber, South Bend, to WILLL4.M BEAUNSDOEF, '25, was announced recently. No date has been set for the wedding. 
^londay, December 29, will be a great day for South Bend, Notre Dame, Mishawaka and Galesburg. On that morning in the Log Chapel of Notre Dame, Miss Pauline Christen­son, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Christenson, Mishawaka, will promise to love, honor and obey LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, A.B. '28, M.A. '30. Mr. Buckley is a member of the Notre Dame faculty and is well-known in South Bend and vicinity. Members of the "staff" will cover the wedding for the ALUMNUS. Watch for the Jan­uary issue! 
Personals 
Before 1880 

FEANK J. HOFFMAN, '78-'79, writes from 16 Eidge Eoad, Pleasant Bidge, Mich.: "Listening in on the Army-Notre Dame game gave me great pleasure and a final thrill by the winning of your team. Memories of my student days in 1878-79 brought to mind a panoramic re\'iew of the faces of the Eev. Fr. Corby, Fr. Walsh, Fr. Kelley, Bro. Theodore, Professors Lyons, Ivers and the ad­mired of all Prof. Thoms, and a long line of classmates. Nearly 54 years is a long time since school days, but I shall ever cherish the days of my Alma Mater, and wish to add my con­gratulations to your Fighting Irish fighters of the football arena." 
1880-1885 

Prof. Robert M. Anderson, '83, Cirde­ville, Ohio^ Secretary 
A note from PKOF. ANDEESON establishes him on Guilford Boad, Circleville, O. He says, "My time has been too broken for me to get down to my duties. Let us hope for the New Year." 
1890-1893 

Louis P. Chute, 7 University Ave, Minneapolis, Minn. 
JAMES G. HENLEY, '93, Jackson, Mich., has been appointed by Gov. Fred Green of Michigan, as a member of the commission which is studying old age pensions in Michigan with a ^new toward action in the 1931 legis­lature. Mr. Henley's experience as editor of The-Square Deal, a labor organ, and similar papers throughout Michigan, make him particularly val­uable. The old age pension move­ment is the outgrowth of agitation by the Eagles' fraternal order under the leadership of FEANK E. BERING, president of the Alumni Association. 
1898 

F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl BIdg, Detroit, Michigan. 
A letter from the office of F. HENEY WUEZEE, Detroit, brings the regrettable word of another serious illness which has seized Mr. Wurzer. The ALUMNUS hopes that he is now on the road to recovery and will enjoy a Happy New Year. 
1903 

Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. BIdg, Jlilwaukec, Wisconsin. 
The new son, David Andre, an­
A NOVEL 
OF 
NOTRE 
DAME 

HUDDLE 
By Francis Wallace 

nounced last month, is only one of the things which keep ALEXIS C6­QUILLARD busy. He is president of the South Bend Insurance Ex­change and a member of the Board of Directors of the Indiana Associa­tion of Insurance Agents. He was chairman of their convention held in South Bend on Nov. 6-7. 
1907 

T. Paul McGannon, 36 W. 44th St., New York City. 
JAMES D. JOEDAN, '07, 341 Con­nell Bldg., Scranton, Pa., attorney, is the author of one of the splendid clippings that have come to the atten­tion of the Alumni Office this Fall. Jim, who was vice-president of the Class of '07, and a strong activities man, was so thoughtful of Notre Dame's general interests as to write to the Scranton Times, for the issue of Dec. 12, more than a column of solid information on the other side of Notre Dame. Coming on the heels of the clinching of the national football championship, it must have done in­estimable gooid. These one-man cru­sades, when they are based on the in­formation that characterized Jim Jordan's article, cannot be praised highly enough. It was filled with facts, presented in a manner that de­tracted not at all from the football glory, and that left a reader with a 
At All Bookstores $1.00 

This fast-moving, exciting novel of football, the Eockne system, and Notre Dame will appeal to anyone who likes a good story and especially to Notre Dame graduates and undergraduates. (By a con­temporary of "The Four Horsemen.") 
FARRAR & RINEHART, Publishers 
much better balanced picture of the Notre Dame that all Notre Dame men know. 
1916 
T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust BIdg., Hammond, Indiana. 
The ever-active TIM GALVIN was down for the St. Joe Valley football banquet, but didn't leave any par­ticular information for this column. 
1918 
John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave., Escanaba, Michigan. 
FATHER JIM GALLIGAN writes from Minneapolis that he sees "PEACHES" NADALNEY there fre­quently. A star tackle on the first team Rock had as head coach. Peaches is in the real estate business in Min­neapolis. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black BIdg, Los Angeles, Calif. 
REV. JLARCEL KELLIHER is an assistant at the Cathedral in Omaha, Nebraska. Father Kelliher was a stu­dent in Badin Hall during 1919 and 1920. 
1922 Gerald Ashe, 1023 Monroe Ave., Rochester, N. T. 
At this writing the Southern Cali­fornia delegation, composed of HAR­RY DENNY, GENE HEIDELMAN, GENE KENNEDY, AL SCOTT, MATT McENIRY and THURMOND MUDD, is preparing to welcome the foobtall team which is to do battle with the powerful U. S. C. aggrega­tion for the championship of the uni­verse. Despite their loyalty to all things in their native or adopted state, these men of '22 are a unit in pulling for a N. D. victory, which we hope is history when this goes to press. 
Walt Stuhldreher is in the invest­ment business in Indianapolis. 
We are wondering what has hap­pened to FRED DRESSEL, MARK HEALY, DAN YOUNG, JOHN Mc-INNES, LEO LOVETT, DUKE GON­ZALES and PETE LISH. HUGHIE GIBBONS is also among the missing. Maybe we had better start a lost and found department. 
An apology is demanded from the Chicago Club for the miserable weath­er condiitons to which the men of '22 were subjected at the Army game. If like conditions prevail at the Southern California game we will overlook Chicago's failing in this respect. JIM MURTAGH'S high silk topper was damaged beyond the point of salvage. 

JOHN MAHONEY of Enid, Okla. is associated with the Oklahoma Roofing Co. MORRIE STARRETT had better look to his laurels for John has already seen the Northwestern and Army games and is now on his way to the coast for the U. S. C. con­test. 
JOHN SULLIVAN, graduate in Engineering, has recently moved to Ironwood, Mich., where he expects to be for the next two years. John has two children. 
JOHN RAHE, who has been with the Scotfs Stores in Minneapolis for two years, will be transferred to St. Cloud, Minnesota, the first of the year. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 338 Fifth Ave, New York City. 

EDWARD THODE recently took the Minnesota bar exams and is 
St. Joseph Mineral Baths 
conducted by 

The Sisters of Charity 
Mount Clemens, Mich. 

Here is a place for Notre Dame alumni and their friends to come for rest and relaxation, to recuperate and build up health and strength. It is equally good for those who are well and those who are not well. 
It combines the best features of a sanitarium, a homelike hotel, and the advantages of the famous mineral baths. It is enjoyable all the year around. Once a patron you will always return. 
For information and rates apply to 
ST. JOSEPH MINERAL BATHS 
MOUNT CLEMENS, MICHIGAN 
planning the estahlishment of a law-firm in Minneapolis under the firm name of Thode and Kunze, the latter being a fellow graduate of the George­
. town Law School, and orignally a graduate of St. Thomas College. Ed has been with the revenue depart­ment in Washington, D. C. 
DON RYAN, a brother of AL RYAN, '20, former Alumni Secretary, who was a student at Notre Dame in 1922-24, is in the finance business in Minneapolis. 
BILL CASTELLINI has set up an office as public relations counselor in Cincinnati. He has handled already a number of important projects in­cluding Hoover's dedication of the Ohio River Lock and Dam system, the river race betiveen the Tom Greene and Betsy Ann, the sixty-fourth en­campment of the G. A. E., and others. With his father, he has also set up the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Insti­tute, a non-profit organization for promoting the use of fruits and vege­tables. 
1925 John W. Scallan, Pullman Co, 79 W. Adams St, Chicago, III. 
The campus was reminiscent of '21 to '25 recently when a number of the Four Horsemen team came back to train for the charity game in New York on Dec. 14. That game, by the way, may mean some things to some people, but it will never mean that the N. Y. Giants could beat the 1924 team, at least to the Class of '25. The picture elsewhere in this issue will show that the boys haven't changed much. DON MILLER, JIMMY CROWLEY, ELJIER LAYDEN, HARRY STUHLDEEHER, ADAM WALSH, JOE BACH, RIP MILLER, NOBLE KIZEE, ED HUNSINGEE, and CHUCK COLLINS, are all in the line-up. JOHNNY WEIBEL, who is very seriously engaged in the final steps of his preparation for a doctor's career, is the one missing member of the first string eleven of those glori­ous days. Adam gave two splendid talks, one when the present champions returned from Southern California, the other at the testimonial banquet given by the N. D. Club of the St. Joseph Valley. 
OSCAE LAVEEY, the elongated orator of the Class of '25, is still en­gaged in the gentle art of discourse in a big way. Oscar broadcast a talk on "The Attitude of the Catholic Church Toward Socialism and Com­munism" over Station WICC, Bridge­port, during the Catholic Hour. The ALUMNUS basks in the confidence that the sound principles of Father Bolger could have no more able or enthusiastic exponent on the Atlantic seaboard. 
1926 

Gerald W. Hayes, Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co, Evanston, III. 
Inasmuch as JEEEY HAYES is winding up his long medical course, charity moves the Editor to confine himself to offering congratulations to the Secretary on his M. D. and hopes that he has a large practice. If prac­tice makes perfect, this column from then on ought to be uniformly full. For prescriptions, see Hayes. 
1927 

Ed DeCIerq, Secretary 8126 Drexel Blvd, Chicago, 111. 
RAOUL FLORES is co-partner in a firm of consulting engineers in Mexico City. Mail will reach him, Laboratories "Chemia" Quimicos, Montede Piedad No. 15, Desp. 302, Mexico, D. F. 
1928 

Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind, Secretary. 
The Class Secretary of our Junior year, FRANK CREADON, favored us with news concerning some of the '28 men. Frank is with the Western Electric in Chicago where he has been employed for over a year in the con­tract and estimating department. Notre Dame is well represented at the Western Electric with the follow­ing men: RAY MULLIGAN, DAN MOORE, ED MANDEVILLE, JIM LYDON and ED FLYNN. Frank mentions that he saw several of the fellows this summer in the East. GORDON BENNETT, '29, made his visit to Buffalo very interesting, es­
Notre Ddme Songs 
Time will not fade the popularity of these wonderful songs 
VICTORY MARCH HIKE! NOTRE DAME DOWN THE LINE 
Piano Copies 40c each. Quartette 20c each. Band and orchestra prices upon request. 
Melrose Bros. Music Co., Inc. 
81 W. Randolph Street Chicago, 111. 
I 

pecially emphasized, remarks Frank, by a few trips to Canada. In Boston Frank saw RED CANNON, JIM COOGAN entertained him in Fall Eiver. WALT GOFF is master of the high seas in the capacity of harbor master in Fall River. CONNIE OCHOA has returned to Mexico. JOE NORTON sent in a written con­fession which appears in the mar­riage column. Joe would like to hear from some of the EJI.'s of '28. Joe's address is 28 Highland Place, Yon­kers, N. Y. BOB KIRBY, "he of the big muscles," dropped a line from Indianapolis stating that he was about to vacate that great and renowned state and realm of the celibates. The big event will take place sometime real soon, I understand. 
TROY BONNER dashes a note from 1669 Jackson Avenue in Mem­phis. His efforts are bent towards putting Standard Oil on its feet. Troy is in the legal end of the game. Troy mentions that AUSTIN HALL, '26, is pitching a good game in ar­chitecture as well as in his social efforts. GEORGE KIENER is located at St. Edward's University in Austin, Texas. HOWIE PHALIN'S latest address is El Paso, Texas, although I have it from good authority that he spends most of his time in old Mex­ico. FATHER GALLIGAN was in Chicago for the -4.rmy game and I found him just as interested as ever to know how all of the '28 men are getting along. Father is still located at St. Thomas College in Saint Paul Minnesota. REV. BERNARD COUGHLIN, '26, accompanied him from St. Paul for the game. Father Coughlin is a prosperous and healthy 
looking assistant pastor at St. John's Church in St. Paul. Father Galligan said that he sees JOE BENDA quite often. Joe has just completed a successful season as coach at St. John's College in CoUegeville, Jtfin­nesota. RAY MOCK and BOB FO­GERTY are both on the faculty at St. Thomas College. JACK DOYLE is with a Wholesade Clothing Firm in Minneapolis. 
1930 
Bernard W. Conroy, 1109 Kenneth Ave., New Kensington, Pa., Sec'y. 

Dear Jim: 
The news of the death of "HANK" 

NOON was a shock to all of his class­
mates. "Hank" was well liked by the 
lawyers and the fellows in Corby and 
he took active part on the Scholastic 
staff. We all greatly regret his leav­
ing us so soon and ask that his soul 
may rest in peace. 
Thanks to HARRY FRANCIS, JOHN ROCAP, and TOM MEDLAND I have a little dope to pass on to you. Vice-President Francis -ivrote me that all of the boys in Philly were quite excited over the Penn game. The East-Penn Alumni pulled off a big dance in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel after the game and it went over great with the natives of the Quaker City. Now that they have gotten started they intend to keep things humming. 
Harry is going to the University of Temple Law school in the evening and helping his Dad take care of the Merion Express Company during the day. He intends to play a little In­door Ball for the Penn A. C. this win-
University Travel 

Carried on for forty years by Uni­versity Professors of high standing. 
The Bureau of University Travel is incorporated as an educational institu­tion. Since there are no dividends, surplus goes into better tours. 
We especially recommend to the graduates of American Colleges and Universities the Classical Cruise of 1931. 
Send for Announeanents 

BUREAU OF UNIVERSITY TRAVE 
88 Boyd Street, Newton, Massachusetts ter, so he will be in shape for the baseball season. His old teammate, JOE PALERMO, another of the "big" men of our class, played a few games with Vicksburg in the Southern League. By the way, Joe isn't the only Notre Dame man who is doing things in Vicksburg. BILL MILLER is Assistant Secretary of the Chamber of Commerce down there. 
Some of the fellows who were seen at the Penn game are TOMMY KEN­NEALLY, DAN SULLIVAN, CHAR­LEY SULLIVAN, FRANK LETTER­MAN, BILL MORAN, FRANCIS FIN­NEGAN, ED YORKE, JERRY PAR­ICER, TOM DONOVAN ART Mc-GANN, JERRY RANSAVAGE and PETE STEFONIS. The last two fel­lows are attending the Philadelphia School of Law. 
ART BURKERT, winner of numer­ous medals for scholastic work last June, is getting ready to leave India­napolis for Texas. He plans to do some big things in engineering down there. 
A couple of Indiana men joined in the Democratic rush in November and got themselves elected to political po­sitions. WALT STANTON won a seat in the Indiana State Legislature as a representative of Lake County, and AUSTIN GILDEA holds the of­fice of Justice of Peace in Elkhart. 
One of the members of our class was fondly cherishing a bank account of $10.00 until one day he received the following from an old pal who is attending an Eastern Law school: "Please wire me ten at once — to thwart John Law must have the ten to-morrow afternoon — thanks and best regards." Just another fortune vrrecked at the start. 
TOM MEDLAND isn't making rapid strides toward fame as an Ar­chitect, but he is earning a little money and even a little is more than many of our class are making. When he isn't working Tom plays on the basketball team of the Logansport Council of the K. of C. At Hunting­ton he played against PAT GORMAN, '57, and TONY MARTIN, '28. Other towns in which he expects to play are Peru, Rochester, Plymouth, and La-Porte. He also looks forward to meet­ing an Interhall team or two. MARSH KIZER and CLIFF LOGAN are prob­ably performing with the Plymouth aggregation. I wonder how George Keogan is getting along without his old assistant Marsh. 
CHARLIE SMALLWOOD is an as­sistant superintendent on the Foit Dearbor n reconstruction for the World's Fair. PAUL HEIDKAMP has a position in a Chicago bank, where he is making use of his train­ing under Dean McCarthy. PINKY" COTTER and ART GALLAGHER are following Architecture in Buffalo and Cleveland , respectively. L.\RRY 
O'CONNOR has a position with Sears-Roebuck in Chicago and lives with BILL BRADSHAW, '29, on the North Side. JERRY PARKER, fa­mous producer of beautiful ballrooms, is struggling with stocks and bonds in New York. JACK O'lvEEFE has found something to do near his home town, Verona, N. J. 
Among the crowd who attended the Navy game were HAROLD DUIvE, JIM LEAHY, JERRY HOLLAND, ART PETERSEN, JOE LENAHAN, and TOM MURPHY. 
Harry Sylvester is constantly breaking into the newspapers and magazines with his articles or stories. The latest to catch my eye was the article "The School Nobody Knows" which appeared in the Brooklyn Eagle. 
DICK O'TOOLE is studying medi­cine at St. Louis University and JERRY SINNOTT is attending Co­lumbia Med. School. 
I hope a few more of the fellows will send in some news but the law­yers can keep those ten dollar tele­grams (collect) to themselves. 
The national championship team of 1929 came in for considerable pub­licity during the last few weeks. JOHNNY LAW was back to play with Rock's old guard, and incidental­ly made a couple of nice talks, along with .A.DAM WALSH, captain of the 1924 champions, in honor of the 1930 team. 
TOM TRAUGHBER and FRAN­CIS E. DAILEY have successfully passed the Tennessee and Illinois bars, respectively, according to word received from Dean Konop's office. 
JOaX HAXCOCK SERIES 
Your Business and ITonr Family 
mou don't have to be an egotist to wonder what would happen to your business without your guid­ing hand at its helm, or your constructive energy pushing it forward. Man power is ad­mittedly the mainspring of business, and loss of man power usually means loss of capital or earning power. 
You can replace that loss in the event of your death, or the, death of a partner, through Business Life Insurance. 
'UFC INSURANCE CoMn 
^ »0«TO«i.MlMIM^WtTTl» 
laquiiT Bnreaa. 197 CUrendon Street Boston, Mass. Please send booklet, **Thi» Matter of 

Success."  
Piame  —  '  
Address  . .,  .  .  

L. c. —Over Sixty-Seven Tears in Business— 








