The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
•iiiiitQ 
QM'I I ititiitii 
IN THIS ISSUE 
Commencement Views, 1930 Frontispiece Eighty-Sixth Annual Commencement 291 Commencement and Baccalaureate Addresses 296 Annual Meeting of the Association 299 New Officers for 1930-31 303 Editorial 304 Football Ticket Changes 305 Athletics 308 Alumni Clubs 309 The Alumni 312 
The maBazine is published monthly durinff the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The 8ul>scription price is $2.00 a year: the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's suliscription to TlIE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post ofBce at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1897. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Bo.x 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
MEMBEK OF THE AMERICAN ALU.MNI COUNXIL MEMBER OF THE NATION.IU- CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
HARLEY MCDEVITT, '29, Advertising Mgr. 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration BIdg., Notre Dame, Indiana 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUM MI BOARD 
EEV. JOHN CAVAXAUGH, C.S.C, 'flO Honorary President FRANK E . HERIXG, '98 ---President HON. WILLIAM J. GRANFIELD, 'IS Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 Secretai-y WALTER DUNCAN, '12 ---Treasurer GEORGE M. MAVPOLE, '03 Director 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director PETER P. MCELLIGOTT, '02 Director JOHN W. EGGEMAN, 'CO {ex officio) Director 

COMMENT 

This is the last issue of the ALUM­NUS until September. If you change your address during the summer, drop us a card. 
Notice of change of address is par­ticularly important in view of the football ticket application distribution. 
Elsewhere in this issue the Foot­ball Tickets Committee outlines a number of changes. All of them are aimed to benefit alumni who are ac­tive in the interests of Notre Dame and the Alumni Association. 
The failure to give any preference to alumni who do not pay dues has been deferred until now to allow time for an understanding of the present organization of. alumni and the objectives of the Association to become clear to all members. This time seems reasonably to have elapsed. 
August 1 gives three months' grace to alumni in the matter of paying the five dollars dues. 
The decrease in the allotment of tickets for,the Army Game is so ob­viously to help alumni that it needs no comment. Army's request for the entire east side of the stadium is one that Notre Dame cannot afford to deny in either friendship or sports­manship. 
The closing date, September 15, is going to save you and everyone con­nected with the ticket sale and dis-. tribution a great deal of futile mis­understanding. 
Big business has come to Notre Dame. It must bring with it its methods. You are still ahead of the game in preferences, on a compara­tive basis with any of the larger schools whose teams are popular. 
Until September! 
Lay Reireal 

The Annual Lay Retreat at the University will be held August 7-10. Rev. Richard J. Collentine, C.S.C, '09, ivill be in charge. Hon. Alfred Smith, Laetare Medallist, has been reported among those who will at­tend. 
Inter-Club Golf 

The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, sponsors of the first annual Inter-Club Golf Tournament, also won the beautiful Max Adler trophy, through the excellent golf of Paul Castner, '23. The N. D. Club of Chicago was second. Detailed account will be sent to the Clubs with an­
..Q nouncements for next year. 
19:!(J COMMENCEMENT VIEWS —Toj^ tht-Smiors: tfroint hi^rrt. Pn-.tidrnt tltriua, Dlrrrtorx MaupoU-a»d Milhr, ami Stcretaru Arnistrotui: indiridaal ivsrrt. Tnti-tttrir Pnutati; ninall virim, Flau t-xircixiM: thr Comiitrnccmfnt vlatjornt; the lirtit/'oiis at tin-Fttii/ liaisiiif/. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Volume VII. JUNE, 1930 No. 10 
Eighty-Sixth Annual Commencement 
A
TTENDANCE, interest, com­prehensiveness of program, seriousness of effort, genuine 
enjoyment, and weather, are a few of 
the fields in which the University's 
Eighty-Sixth Annual Commencement, 
May 30, May 31, and June 1, shat­
tered all existing i-ecords. 
Chronology is the only aid to an editorial mind still dazed with the en­joyable business of it all. 
Alumni attendance was the most significant feature. In a year when men are sticking closer to the desk than usual, and when travel budgets are cut heavily, it was very encourag­ing and indicative of a new alumni in­terest to have some five hundred alumni join the four hundred and thirty-nine members of the Class of 1930 for the week-end. 
The University Golf Course and the Friday holiday were, without doubt, very prominent factors in permitting such attendance. 
Friday witnessed a larger influx of alunmi than ever before. A beautiful Military Memorial Field Mass was celebrated at the Memorial doorway. Sacred Heart Church at nine o'clock. Eev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, '03, former president of the University and a chaplain of the World War, was celebrant. Eev. Charles L. O'Don­nell, C.S.C, '06, president of the Uni­versity, and also chaplain during the World War, gave a brief but eloquent Memorial Day address after the Mass. A color guard and a firing squad were furnished through the co­operation of the South Bend unit of the National Guard. Boy Scouts from downtown also assisted in decorating the graves at the Community ceme­tei-y, where the procession, led by Col. Hoynes, honorary marshal of the day, went following the Mass. The Uni­versity Band furnished the music for the marches. Lieut. Robert Riordan, '24, a member of the faculty, was in charge of the program. 
Wisconsin took a thrilling baseball game from Notre Dame on Cartier Field in the afternoon, 5-4, after a one-handed stab by the Badger third-baseman nipped a Notre Dame ninth-inning rally that had the bases loaded 
for a much different ending to the 
game. _ 
At seven o'clock the Oliver Hotel's 
Rotary room witnessed the largest 
Class Reunion Dinner ever held by a 
Notre Dame Class when sixty-eight 
members of the Class of 1925 gath­
ered there for their five-year banquet. 
William E. Voor, '25, South Bend 
attorney, was in charge of this very 
successful event. 
About the same hour Prof. Joseph Casasanta's University Band was ac­quitting one of its various Com­mencement duties most successfully in the form of a concert on the Univers­ity Quadrangle. 
At eight o'clock in Washington Hall, not only Commencement, but the whole field of college play pro­duction, received a tremendous stimu­lus with a splendid production by a student cast of "Journey's End," one of the great plays that the World War has produced. Visitors from everywhere crowded the Hall and the praise of the play in all its phases was as sincere as it was unstinted. Prof. Frank Kelly, '20, who directed the play, deserves great credit for the high quality of the production. The cast was one of the finest to enact a play at Notre Dame. The play is famous in its own right, and was se­cured for local use largely through the efforts of Frank C. Walker, '09, New York. 
Saturday started off with a bang. Because of the baseball game in the afternoon, the golf tournaments were moved up to the morning. So that, in a dazzling and dangerous criss-cross of golf balls, the honors of the Class of 1925 and the colors of the St. Jo­seph Valley were augmented by a varsity match between Detroit U. and Notre Dame. The splendid Inter-Club Cup, donated by Max Adler, South Bend, and the '25 trophy, donated by Jack Scallan, '25, were incentives that brought out all the good golf that the course could accommodate. 
The Senior Class paid its beautiful last visit to Sacred Heart Church on Saturday morning, adjourning to Washington Hall for the Class Day exercises—valedictory, poem, address, and the awarding of honors. 
Saturday noon, in the Lay Faculty rooms of the University Dining Halls, the First Annual Council of the Local Alumni Clubs met. Space does not permit details here. But this can be advanced with much confidence and appreciation. The principle of the meeting was justified in the discus­sions and the conclusions which fol­lowed its convening. The Clubs are an integral and vital part of the life of the Association. Their growth has been little short of phenomenal. This organization, designed to aid the Clubs in the right conduct of their affairs for the greatest good of the greatest number, has unlimited pos­sibilities for good. It is a pleasure to report that even this first meeting, largely organizational in the nature of things, realized many of these pos­sibilities in the short time that was available. Those Clubs which were' not represented missed an oppor­tunity. 
Saturday Night the largest alumni banquet ever held at Notre Dame lis­tened to one of the best speaking pro­grams that similar gatherings have enjoyed. Seven hundred and fifty alumni assembled about the tradi­tionally la'den tables. John W. Egge­man, '00, president of the Association, was toastmaster. Dr. John B. Bertel­ing, '80, spoke for the Golden Jubilee Class and its three Dix Reunion fel­low Classes of '78, '79 and '81. His reminiscences of a half century ago at Notre Dame interested both young and old alumni. Frank O'Shaugh­nessy ,'00, gave a splendid address for the DLx Classes of '97, '98, '99 and 1900, outlining some of the achieve­ments of those Classes but emphasiz­ing especially the problems that lie before the whole alumni group. Wil­iam D. Jamieson gave a tremendously inspiring talk in, connection with the Silver Jubilee of the Class of '05, sprinkling the talk with a contagious humor that did not detract in any sense from the effectiveness of the points. 
Bernard VoU, '17, speaking for the Classes of '16, '17, '18 and '19, took the theme, "God, Country and Notre Dame." About these beautiful senti­ments he built a brief but brilliant talk that is one of the finest that it has been the Editor's pri\ilege to hear on a similar occasion. The conjunc­tion of Commencement and Memorial Day was particularly influential in the power of Mr. VoU's comments. 
John W. Seallan was the speaker for the Class of '25. In a short space of time, Jack crowded in all of the ideals and Notre Dame spirit that motivate the younger Classes of the University, resulting, for a concrete example, in the largest Class Reunion this year of the 5-Year Class ever held, a hundred members, practically a third of the entire Class, returning. 
Kt. Rev. John F. Noll, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne, gave a splendid impromptu tal k on modei-nism in education with its consequent d a n ­gers and abuses. He praised the Catholic e d u c a­tional system for i t s conservation of the fundamen­tals of education and w a s most generous in his praise of Notre Dame. 
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, president of th e University, was the principal speaker of th e evening. 

Father O'Don­nell, after ex­pressing a welcome to the Alumni on behalf of the University and paying a tribute to the distinguished guests present, notably the Right Reverend Bishop of the Diocese, spoke of the infoi-mality of Alumni gatherings, sajing he believed they should con­tinue to have that easy-going charac­ter; that, naturally, little attention could be given during these days of reunion to the very serious purposes that lie back of the Alumni Associa­tion. He showed that contacts be­tween the Alumni and the University should be constant throughout the year. In consequence of this develop­ment, he spoke of the necessity of selecting Alumni officers who would keep up such contacts, citing the ad­ministration of President Eggeman as a fine illustration of the realization of this ideal. 
Taking occasion of the mention of Living Endowment by two speakers who had preceded him, the President of the University ventured a word on this subject from the University's point of view. He spoke of the Uni­versity's financial position and showed that endowment and not "volume of business" makes for economic secur­ity. He emphasized the point that, just as surely as there is a Notre Dame system of football, there is a Notre Dame idea in education. Much as Notre Dame is like other universi­ties along broad, general lines, there is a definite concept of education, as realized here, that is diflFerent from that of any other school. Everybody recognizes this, although the thing is difficult to define. Now Living En­dowment, from the University's point of view. Father O'Donnell said, is a 
TH E BOYS FROJI CHICAGO. 

call to believers in the Notre Dame idea of education to support that idea pi-actically. Notre Dame is not on trial, nor the Notre Dame system; the University is not on the defensive, nor concealing anything, nor compro­mising its position in any respect. Sim­ply, to reach the great ends that are in view, and that must be realized if the University is to maintain its posi­tion of eminence, assistance from its Alumni and friends is necessary. 
Following the banquet, the Uni­versity Glee Club, which has become one of the country's leading college singing organizations, gave its annual Commencement Concert in Washing­ton Hall. The Club, under the direc­tion of Prof. Casasanta, scored the hit with an appreciative audience that its year's record had indicated. 
The Class of '25 held an informal get-together in Morrissey Hall in the late evening, which gathered into the fold a number of late arrivals of the 5-Year Class. 
Sunday opened officially with a Re­union Mass, celebrated by Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, in Sorin Chapel for the members of the Class of '25. 
The Academic procession and the Pontifical Mass followed. Rt. Rev. John F. Noll, Bishop of Fort Wajme, pontificated. Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.P., secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, Wash­ington, D. C, delivered the Bacca­laureate sermon. Assisting ijriests were Rev. Raymond Clancy, C.S.C, Rev. Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, Rev. Charles C Miltner, C.S.C, and Rev. 
P. J. Haggerty, C.S.C. 

The Senior Flag, presented on Washing ton's Birthday, w a s blessed after the Pontifical Jlass, carried to th e Quadrangle flag­pole and raised by the Class, to be th e official campus flag for the next year. 
At noon on Sunday the most r e p r e s entative Monogram Luncheon eve r held took place in the Lay Facul­ty Dining Room. Seventy-five mon­ogram men, old and young, many of them promi­nent coaches, 
were introduced by the guiding genius of the affaii', Knute Rockne. Rock's appearance was one of the most wel­come features of Commencement, though he was not taxed by official duties. "The Four Horsemen," "Slip" Madigan, "Chuck" Collins, Adam Walsh, Harry Mehre, "Chet" Wynne, "Roge" Kiley, "Chile" Walsh, "Biffy" Lee, Jack Meagher, "Gus" Dorais, Harry Baujan, "Judge" Carberry, "Hunk" Anderson, "Red" Mage\Tiey, Rex Enright, "Bill" Cerney, Dan La­ment, Wilbur Eaton, John Noppen­berger. Noble Kizer, Joe Harmon, John Frederick,—these were among the active coaches present. Among the older Monogram stars were Frank Hering, John Eggeman, Harry "Red" Miller, Walter Miller, Joe Pliska, John biener, Byron Kanaley, "Doc" Duane, "Bobby" Lynch, and Father Moriarty. 
At 2:00 p. m. the Annual Meeting was attended in Washington Hall. The Class of 1930 was inducted and 
the business of the meeting transacted days and the Alumni Office is await­NUS, this account is not to inform as noted elsewhere in this issue. ing their development with much in­those who could have been here and At 4:30 the 439 academic degrees terest. weren't. If they miss Commence­
were awarded at the Commencement The week-end was successful from ment, 
exercises held in the Uni-, 
versity gymnasium. Hon. 
Claude G. Bowers, of New 
Yoi-k City, delivered a 
Commencement address 
that has been commented 
on most widely and fa­
vorably by the press and 
by all those who had the 
pleasure of hearing it. 
Honorary degrees were 
conferred as follows: 
An exemplary Catholic layman, whose life and work in the fields of bus­iness, patriotic activity, and Catholic charity are a tribute to the training given by the parochial school as well as to his own rare manhood—Mr. Dennis Francis Kelly, of Chicago, Illinois. 
An eminent priest, of the Congregation of St. Paul the Apostle, who as missionary of the Faith, editor of a great Catholic magazine for many years, most active member of the National Catholic War Council in the recent wai-­time, and present general­secretaiy of the National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence, has rendered signal service to Church and State—the Reverend John Joseph Burke, C.S.P., of Washington, District of Columbia. 
A distinguished journal­ist, historian, and leader in politics, whose doctrine and example through sev­eral decades have been an inspiring illustration of the best traditions in American life—the Hon­orable Claude G. Bowers, of New York City. 
Many alumni took ad­vantage throughout the week-end of the Universi­ty Golf Course. The course, while comparative­ly new, gives promise of developing into one of the leading campus courses of the South Bend, Ind., June 6, 1930. 
DE-\R JIEMBERS OF THE ALUJIXI ASSOCIATION: 
It is a vei-y great honor to be elected president of the Alumni Association. But the honor carries with it respon­sibilities that no loyal Notre Dame man can hold lightly. Students who have left the academic walls are committed to a program that insures a greater Notre Dame. There­fore, the months that lie ahead demand of your President continuous, not intermittent, service and constructive leadership. If these are furnished, devoted alumni by the thousands will serve the Cause unselfishly. Without reser­vations, I promise to give liberally of my time and such leadership as I can offer. I am confident that my asso­ciates in office will gladly make a like pledge.. 
We that call Notre Dame Alma Mater, are proud of her traditions and of the eminence that she has attained among the educational institutions of our country. It is a privilege to be a "Notre Dame man." But the privilege carries with it obligations. Our immediate duty is to liquidate some small part of the debt which we owe to the institution that sent us into the world equipped to handle the problems of life. We will not prove untrue to our­selves. We must not fail Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame is in the midst of a great expansion pro­gram. Hundreds of students cannot find living quarters on the campus. The class rooms and lecture rooms are crowded. To meet these conditions, new buildings are in contemplation, and several are under construction. The lay faculty should be increased. Its present gratifying efficiency should be at least maintained. Whenever oppor­tunity offers, able instructors and educators should be called to Notre Dame. 
But buildings and services cost money. During the next five years, Notre Dame will need funds in excess of any amount at present available. Possession of these funds will insure "a greater Notre Dame." In their raising, every alumnus should have a part. 
I am of the opinion that those of us recently elected to office were chosen in the belief that we have certain quali­fications that, if conscientiously exercised in the interests of the University, will this year firmly lay the foundations of the Living Endowment Fund. I shall not set forth at length the plans under consideration to give to each of you a more vivid part in assembling The Fund. In the pages of THE ALUMNUS and in pamphlets widely dis­tributed during the past year, you were informed of the general plans. During the months that lie immediately ahead, in THE ALUMNUS and through personal letters, our administration will further acquaint every Notre Dame man with the services that he can render, confident that he will find joy in doing his part. 
During the recent Commencement days, those in at­tendance were constantly reminded of The World War. The sermons, the addresses, the reunions of the war-time classes emphasized the patriotic services that Notre Dame, through her religious and her student body, gave to our country. Then boys became men over night. At Chateau Thierry and in the Ai-gonne, Notre Dame students 
With their poppies in their helmets In the front files held the line. 
May a spirit as courageous and loyal inspire us as we heed the call of our University. Very sincerely, FRANK E . HERING, President. 
 they must miss all of those 
^ details that make it at the time, but that defy ade­quate description. 
The hospitality of the University was of course perfect. This annual kill­ing of the fatted calves for sons that have been in the past all top prodigal has long been a source of mingled emotions to Notre Dame's more analytical sons. Of late it has be­come a real worry, in that it represented a ma­terial outlay that had not been justified by any ma­terial return. This year the Living Endowment Plan gives all alumni an opportunity to include this particular form of enjoy­ment and hospitality in their return to Notre Dame. 
If you weren't here this year, be here next year. The invitation is cordial and sincere from the Uni­versity. You are always a Notre Dame man. Notre Dame is always open to you for a spiritual or mental retreat that can be of inestimable good. 
Fathers Hugh C'Donnell, William Molony, Thomas Steiner, Raymond Murch, George Holderith, and Messrs. Robert Borland, Joseph Casasanta, Arthur Haley and Robert Riordan comprised the Commence­ment committee responsi­ble for the fine program. 
Notr e Dame's Com­mencement and our own alumni activities are no longer apart from the world. What Notre Dame does is now news. Local­ly, it is big news, receiv­ing much space in the South Bend papers. Na­tionally, we are of vital significance to the Cath­olic press and of no small consequence to the secular. 

The following editorial from the 
 coun­many angles. It was important as 
South Bend News-Times is an out­
try, and, while not a "sporty" course, the opening of a new alumni world. 
standing example of the breaking 
one that will try the skill of most It was the largest on record. The 
down of barriei-s and the growing 
alumni. spirit was better. No account is ade­
respect of the outside world for 
Moving pictures, for showing in the quate. We repeat what we discover 
Notre Dame and Notre Dame men. 
Clubs, were taken during the three appeared in last year's June ALUM­
294 June, 19S0
THE NOTRE DAME ALU.MNUS 
[•2""'*"'>(t(t»l»f((Mlt(t»*l»tlllHlllfllltllIt(ltMt»fflll(IIIIIttMtll>llll>ll ..Q 
T/^e Alumni and Mr, Hering | 
(Repx-inted from the South Bend News-Times of June 4) = 
The election of the alumni of The University of Notre Dame of a national president for their association was influenced this year by some special considerations which give the result significance to all friends of the University. In the midst of a great physical expansion caused by the demands upon it, the University stands in need of monej'' with which to carry out the program of adding to and strengthening the lay faculty. Notre Dame is and always has been a school paying its expenses out of income. Until the creation of a comparatively small endowment fund a few years ago, it was without any of the assistance in paying teach­ing salaries enjoyed by other universities of its rank. Had it not been for the ser\'ice5 of the consecrated teachers of the Order of the Holy Cross the University could never have arrived at its present place among the educational institutions of the United States. 
Frank E. Hering has been elected national president of the alumni with his long experience as an organizer of beneficial works firmly in mind. A resident of South Bend where he can be in daily touch with the needs of the University, Sir. Hering occupies a position from which he can work with considerable hope of success toward making the living endowment plan a vital thing among Notre Dame men in all parts of the country and of the world. 
As an untiring and successful worker for the enactment of advanced social legislation in the states, as an editor, a writer, a speaker and an organizer of recognition, he is admirably equipped for the task In hand. Mr. Hering takes up the work as a contribution to the University of which he is a graduate and former athletic coach and faculty member in the hope that he will be able to induce Notre Dame men to endow Notre Dame with their living gifts in proportion to their means. 
The living endowment differs from the usual endowment in that the giver makes an annual contribution during his life time and is able to see the results being obtained with the sum of all the gifts of his alumni brothers. 
The money is given by living men and it will be spent as needed for the laudable and the imperative work of operating Notre Dame under the plan of bringing here the best lay teachers available in the various sciences and arts. 
The buildings are rapidly being completed; the physical equipment of Notre Dame T.\ill soon be second to none. But if Notre Dame of the future is to do for the young men of America what it has done in the past it must have a larger income for operating expenses. Lacking the usual invested endowment on a sufficient scale it appeals to Notre Dame men to be living endowTuents, giving to their alma mater in proportion to their benefits from life. 
It is a great work, a thrilling work. We citizens of South Bend should be proud that a South Bend man has been elected to launch and carry on the appeal; that the faith of the people in the breadth of the Notre Dame men has been justified by the willingness of the alumni to so honor Mr. Hering — a non- Catholic; and that our city is the seat of so great a work as is contemplated at our loved and respected University. 
We hope that every Notre Dame man will receive the living endow­ment appeal as it actually is, a magnificent opportunity for men to make concrete acknowledgement of their debt to the school which sent them into the world. 
0" 
m 

Prizes and Awards for Graduates Announced by Registrar 
The Reverend William Molony, 0. 

S. C, announces the awards of the following prizes and awards: 
The Brccn Mvdal for excellence in Oratory, Trtscnted by the late Hon. William P. Breen, of the Class of IS77, is an-arded to JMr. Frank 
E. Corbctt, Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
The Mcehan Gold Mcdat, the sift of the late Mrs. Eleanore Jlechan, of Covington, Ken-lucky, for the Senior who writes the best essay in English, is awarded to Mr. Robert Austin Mulhall, Wyoming, Pennsylvania, 
The Martin McCuc Medal, presented by War­ren Antoine Cartiur, C.E.. of the Class of I8S7, for the best record in all subjects pres­cribed in the Civil EngincerinR program is awarded to Mr. Arthur Stanley Burkcrt, In­dianapolis. Indiana. 
The Electrical Knoincerinu Medal, presented by Doctor Jose A. Caparo, Sc. D., of the Class of 1908, in memorj- of his deceased father, for the best record in all the courses prescribed in the four-year Electrical Engineering program, is awarded to Mr. Karl Russell Weigand, Bar­berton, Ohio. 
The Dockwctler Gold Medal for Philosophy, founded in memorj' of his deceased father, by Mr. Isidore Dockweiler, of Los Angeles, Cali­fornia, for the best essay on some philosophi­cal subject, senior year, is awarded to Mr. Charles Augustine Lee. C.S.C., Holy Cross Seminarj-. Dissertation: "The Dilemna of Educational Psychology-." 
The Lchn and Fin/; Medal for Pharmacy, for the Senior in Pharmacy having the high­est general avenige in his work is awarded to Mr. Harley R. Truitt, Park Ridge, Rlinois. 
The Meyers Burse, for best thesis in Jour­nalism, thirty dollars in gold, founded in 1920 by a gift of five hundred dollars from Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Meyers, of Paducah. Kentucky, as a memorial to their deceased son, J. Sinnot Meyers, of the class of 1920. is awarded to Mr. James D. Bresnahan, West Springfield, Massa­chusetts. 
The William Mitchell Metnoriat Award for Playwriting, fifty dollars, founded in May, 192S, by Mr, Joseph V. Mitchell in honor of his son, is awarded to Mr. Richard Sullivan. Kenosha. Wisconsin. Play: "The Ghost of Thomas Sloop." 
The South Bend Watch Company has made permanent arrangements to olFer annuidly a full jeweled, fourteen carat gold watch to the senior student in each of the five colleges who has made the best academic record for four years in the college from which he graduates. These watches are awarded as follows: 
In the College of Arts and Letters, to Mr. Robert Miller Dinkel, Lakewood. Ohio. 
In the College of Science, to Mr. Thomas Joseph Donovan, St. Paul, Jlinnesota. 
In the College of Engineering, to Mr. Arthur 

S. Burkert, Indianapolis. Indiana. 
In the College of Commerce, to Mr. Vernon James Slack, Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
In the College of Law. to Mr. Marshall Force Kizer, Plymouth. Indiana. 
Two money prizes have been offered for dis­tribution among the monogram men who have achieved the highest academic excellence. The first is a prize of one hundred and twenty-five dollars, given by Mr. Francis Earl Hering, of South Bend, Indiana. The second is a prize of one hundred dollars, donated by Mr. Leroy Joseph Keach, of Indianapolis. Indiana. These prizes have been combined and are awarded as follows: 
A prize of seventy-five dollars to the Sopho­more Monogram man with the best class aver­age for the freshman and sophomore years, to Mr. Regis Charles McNamara, Bingham­ton. New York. 
SECRETARY'S ANNUAL REPORT 
•June 1, 1930 
ored Notre Dame this year by elect­ing me as vice-president of the or­ganization and director of the Middle West. .4t the -American -Alumni Council convention we were further honored, after my term as vice-president expired and my resignation as Director for this District of the Council was accepted, by my appoint­ment as director of the national con­vention of the Council which is to be held next year in Atlanta, Georgia. I mention these things because I want you to know that the Notre Dame as­sociation and its activities must con­sider outside affiliations, and signif­icance. In these we have been most fortunate for an .dissociation as young in active years and small in active numbers. 
The moving picture activities of the -Association are just beginning to take shape through the co-operation of Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C, 'IS, who is in charge of the Washington Hall entertainments. .A. reel of gen­eral campus views has been prepared and is now ready for showing among the Clubs, and 'a special film of this Commencement is being prepared and ivill soon be distributed wherever it is requested by the Clubs. The films are the small size best adapted to showing in Club groups and can be easily thrown on portable screens with easily obtainable projectors. 
The Alumni Office has worked to­ward the establishment of the Local Clubs Council, whose first meeting was held yesterday, in an effort to increase the general efficiency of Club organization. 
The Office has also increased its contacts as much as possible with the Class Secretaries. Responses from both Club and Class officers has been encouraging. 
^Vhile the Office succeeded in spending all the money that the distracted Treasurer could raise, it was e.xpended lor improvements that were already overdue. This year just ended has been the most nor­mally progressive year since I have been handling the work. 
living Endowment opens a new channel. .Attention is turned, and with advantage, to the University it­self. The -Association is only, prop­erly speaking, the instrument, the machinery perhaps, to serve the Uni­versity and the alumni in whatever manner is most desirable and feasible. The Secretary asks only that the support of the -Alumni Office be suf­ficient to keep the machinery in good order, 
James E. .Armstrong 

Needless to say, much of the prog­ress of the year just ended has been reflected in the work that has thereby fallen to the lot of the Alumni Office. 
The outstanding development was the addition of a second assistant who has been at work on the records of the non-graduates since December. Four thousand names not previously listed in the Office: have been added during these months, while the grad­uate records have been kept more up­to-date than was formerly possible. 
The second outstanding develop­ment was the increase in the ALUM­NUS from a 5x8 type page to a 7x10 page, increasing the type con­tent of the magazine 75% in the same number of pages. The change has meant more editorial work, but it has resulted in a better treatment of Club and Class news particularly that has found its justiiieation in the growing response from those groups. 
The graduate manager of publica­tions of the University, Mr. Harley McDevitt, '29, acted as advertising manager of the ALUMNUS during the past year and that phase of the magazine is more developed now than at any other time. 
In the alphabetical, geographical, addressograph files and the Club and Class lists, the increase of 600 alum­ni during the year meant for the Alumni Office an increase of 3000 ad­dresses to be corrected and checked. 
A prize of seventy-five doJInrs Xo the Junior Slonopram man with the best class average for the freshman, sophomore and junior years, to Mr. Frank Fred Carideo, Mt. Vernon, New York. 
\ prize of seventy-five dollars to the Senior Monoffram man with the best class avernffc for the freshman, sophomore, junior and senior years, to Mr. Thomas Francis Kenneally, AVa­terbur>', Connecticut. 
A. number of public-spirited citizens of the city of South Bend have co-operated in the establishment of money prizes of fifty dollars each and twenty-five dollars each. These prizes are for members of the Senior class and are awarded as follows: 
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Albert Russel Erskine, president of the Studebaker Corpora­tion, for excellence in Machine Desipn, to Sir. -•\rthur Thom.TS Kirke, B.S. in M.E,. EushviJIe. Indiana. 
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. Miles W. O'Brien, of the South Bend Lathe "Works, South Bend, Indiana, for excellence in Me­chanical Drawing, to Mr. Donald Lester Nor­ton, B.S. in M.E., Hutchinson, Kansas. 
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. John J. O'Brien, of the South Bend Lathe Works. South Bend, for excellence in Shopwork, to 3Ir. Paul Ed­ward Rist. B,S. in M,E„ Three Oaks, Tlich. 
Fifty dollars, offered by Mr. William A. Mc-Inemy, attomey-at-law. for excellence in Pub­lic Speaking in the College of Law, to Mr. William Lee O'Malley, Chicago, Illinois. 
Response in the payment of dues was not up to expectations in num­ber, though the amount contributed was encouraging. Only a six per cent increase in the number of those paying dues was recorded, while, un­der the optional amount system, there was approximately a 70% increase in the total paid. 
The Alumni Office has carried on more eon-espondence of all kinds dur­ing the year just ended than during any previous years. Universal Notre Dame Night, which was obser\'ed by more Clubs than in preWous years; advance work on the Living Endow­ment Plan; more extensive prepara­tions for this Commencement; more work on the Treasurer's Reports, which are sent weekly, than before; the securing of April 21 from Radio Station WGN as a part of U.N.D. Night; representation of the Associa­tion in the national bodies to which it belongs; correspondence with the Classes and Clubs on a larger and more intensive basis than in any pre­vious years; these are a few of the principal activities that have filled the year. 
The Alumni Secretary attended two conventions in the East on one trip, the National Catholic Alumni Federation, of which we are charter members, in Washington, D. C, April 25, 26 and 27, and the American Alumni Council, in Amherst, Mass., May 1, 2 and 3. The Federation hon­
•Fifty dollars, offered by the South Bend Tribune, for highest general excellence in .loumalism, to Mr. Slarion Joseph Frontczak, Dowagiac, Slichigan. 
Fifty dollars, offered hy Mr. George L. O'Brien and Mr. William D. O'Brien of the O'Brien Varnish Company, South Bend, for excellence in Chemistrj-, lx> Mr, Merritt Otto, South Bend, Indi.ana, 
Twenty-five ilollars, offered by Mr. Edmund Hubbard, attorney-nt-law, for High Legal .\ccomplishnicnt in the College of Law, to Jlr, Raymond Bernard Young. Hammond, Indiana. 
Ttwenty-five dollars, offered by Mr. Edmund Wills, attorney-nt-law, for High Legal Schol­astic -•Achievement in the College of Law. to Mr. Thomas Joseph O'Neil, South Bend, Ind. 
Twenty-five dollars, oftered hy 3fr. Gallitzin Farabaugh. attorney-at-law, for High Legal Scholastic Achievement in the College of Law, to Sir. Walter Richard O'Malley, Aurora, III. 
The Hoiinca Award was established in Jan­unr>-. 1926. by a gift from William James Hoynes, LUD., Dean Emeritus of the College of Law. The income from this fund, amount­ing to one hundred dollars, is awardetl to the member of the graduating class in the pro­gram leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws, who has the highest average in scholas­tic grades, application, deportment and achieve­ment, together with fitting qualifications for admission to the bar, and to the practice of law. This prize is awarded to Mr, William Henry Konop, South Bend, Indiana. 
Commencement and Baccalaureate Addresses Brilliant 
Hon. Claude G. Boivers and Rev. J. J. Burke, C. S. P., Eloquent in Annual Addresses to Seniors; Both Awarded Honorary LL. D.s 
"Out from the universities of today are emerging young men who will be the leaders of tomorrow, and solving the complicated problems of an hectic age will write their names large in historj-. But the lure is not fame, but duty; the rewai'd is not in personal distinction but in the consciousness of ha%'ing played a part in the stabiliza­tion of society in an age of skeptic­ism, defeatism, experimentation and confusion." This was, in effect, the theme of the brilliant Commencement Address delivered on Sunday after­noon, June 1, by Hon. Claude G. Bow­ers, New York, editor, author and ora­tor, to 5,000 graduates and guests of the University in the University gym­nasium. 
Sir. Bowers attacked cynicism with his strength of mind and expression, emphasizing that "CjTiicism without a plan may destroy a nation or de­gi-ade a people, but cynicism never built a house and never made a blade of grass grow where none has grown before." 
Of particular interest to alumni are those phases of Mr. Bowers' address which dealt with the problems of democracy, ci\"ic apathy, and the prejudice against public life. These excerpts from his memorable address are herewith reprinted: 
And yet it would be absurd to deny that time has developed some serious weaknesses in our democracy. Its enemies have some impressive counts in their indictment. 
They point to corrpution in public places, and that is bad; and to the in­diiTerence or complacency of the peo­ple and that is far more serious. 
They point to the inefficiency in the functioning of the governmental ma­chiner>- and to the ossification of petty bureaucratic tyrants. 
They say that the instrumentalities of the state are manipulated by sel­fish interest against the public good, and that is bad; and to the acqui­escence of the masses and that is worse. 
They say that the fanatical minor­ities, warring with the elemental American principles of libertj'. Justice and toleration, have seized on power, and through the cowardice of poli­ticians hold it against the will of the people. 
They say that in government there is too much trading and not enough thinking; too much bartering, and not enough of the scientific process in legislation; too much politics and not enough statesmanship; too much e.x­pediency and not enough of coura­geous leadership; too much speculat­ing on the next election and not enough on the next generation. 
And then they bring forward their • indictment ot a close vdth the most .stinging count of all — that fifty per cent of the American people have ab­dicated citizenship, and repudiated the obligations imposed upon them by the generations that have gone before by a cowardly refusal to participate in the solution of our problems at the polls. 
Manifestly government by the peo­ple is a futile dream unless the peo­ple really want to rule. 
Now what is there in our age to explain this increasing lassitude of the people? There is less serious thinking and less time to think than ever before. We are living at a pace too rapid. Pleasures are too cheap, entertainment is too easy. We have too many of the Roman games through which another republic was destroyed. We scarcely take time to read. The headlines of the papers are enough, or better still the pic­utres of the tabloids. When men and women complete their daily toil, they find the moving pipture lures around the corner; the automobile is waiting at the curb; song, jest and story float in upon us through the witchery of the radio even while we eat. A foolish sense of irresponsibility and detach­ment from the serious social and political problems of the time has settled down like an intellectual snuf­fer upon millions of men and women. 

Now in the very nature of things, even under the old conditions, de­mocracy could not function through uninformed mass action. True in the days of Jefferson and Hamilton, how much truer now. The problems in those days w^ere simple and elemental and the man of untrained mind could grasp their significance at a glance. The intensive development of our present industrial civilization has brought up problems that challenge the best minds in the land. 
In the days of Lincoln there was not a solitary problem on which the man in the street could not form an intelligent opinion; there is scarcely a single problem growing out of our complicated economic system now that does not call for the solution of a specially trained mind. 
The man in the street may have his fixed ideas on fundamental prin­ciples, but how to apply those prin­ciples to industry and economic prob­lems of the greatest delicacy is be­yond his capacity — unless there is a trained leadership to point the way. 
Thus if we are to preserve our in­stitutions from its enemies within and without we must develop a leadership — ti-ained, prescient, and courageous. 
And that brings us to the point to want to make — that out of the uni­versities of the land today should come the leaders of the nation of to­morrow. The colleges and universi­ties can save our institutions and so­ciety when the artillery is silenced and the barracks are exhausted. 

That was the dream of the sage of Monticello — the father of democracy in America. He who wrote the Dec­laration of Independence, who brought a vast empire under the domination of the flag, who conceived and di­rected the magnificent fight for the incorporation in the Constitution of the Bill of Rights, sat down in the twilight of his days to de\ise a plan for the preservation of the blessings of free government; and out of his meditations sprang the University of Virginia—for the training of the fu­ture rulers of the nation. Trained and intelligent leadership — this he knew to be essential to the presen-a­tion of the blessings we have won. 
And he pinned his faith, not on his university alone, but upon universi­ties in general; he pinned his faith on the Notre' Dame that was to be; he looked to you young men who are passing through its portals here to­day. 
And yet, here is the tragedy: as the years have passed and our prob­lems, social and economic, have in­creased in complication, and the at­tacks upon democracy have increased in arrogance, men of intellectual equipment have tended more and more to turn their backs upon the public life to dedicate their gifts to industry, commerce and finance. The type that gave us the constructive statesmanship of fifty and si.xty years ago is found today in the executive offices of the banks, the corporations and the railroads. It is not entirely complimentary to human nature that this is due in part to an increasing 
desire for gain. 
But there is another reason that diverts the young man of mental equipment from the public life. That ribald cynicism which ridicules the home, sneers at moral standards, and jeers at religion, is busy with the pointless propaganda that there is something of cheapness or degradation in the public life. Artificial writers and empty-pated jesters of the stage are creating a con­tempt for the public ser­vice by conveying the im­pression that it is insep­arable from stupidity or corruption. And the an­swer is that for one cor­rupt man in public life, there are hundreds of un­impeachable integrity. 
Make no mistake about it—he who dedicates his life at least a portion of his thought to the aifairs of man in .the realm of the state is clothed in a greater dignity than he whose sole thought and aim is the accumulation of a private fortune on the stock exchange. And in these days of tremen­dous problems invohnng the ultimate welfare of human kind and the pres­ervation of our institu­tions, there is an impei-a­
 E]..,...,.,. 
| = = I 
I 
| "Be quick in parting!" cries the beating heart. Astir with premonitions of a new 

And piercing pain. "Be quick! Be quick in parting! No long farewells to break me with sad beauty!" Quick then, athrob, it sings low sobbing words: "I linger, thirsty for the taste of life— Bid me to fen'ent flight. Now let dry thirst Be slaked, as by gushing rivers. Let mine be eyes That penetrate with calm immediacy To simple truth behind its complex mask; Then may I, seeing, fiercely love the sight. But ah, I choke!—Let us be quick in parting!" 
And then in instant interruption beats The answering voice: "Be strong, 0 heart, be hot In quest of wayward beauty, sky-blown far By secret reverent winds. Though knowing not The hidden place where beauty dwells eternal. You know already beauty's challenge-call. Be constant in your swift pursuit, and learn 
This more in stai-ting: Beauty is truth made shining the bourgeoise. 
And goodness gloi-ified. It is the end Of life, the bright continuum of love. 
Amusing as these things So to the quest—be quick^be quick in starting!" 
seem we cannot lightly Then like a harp-string plucked to vibrant key 
brush aside the views of The urgent heart rejoins in quivering cries: 
the enemies of democracy "I strain—already brushed by beauty's sad 
I —communists and other Sweet passing—strain to the quest! I will be oif 
\ subversive forces. They With no farewells to ache me long. Let us 
I believe. In an age of 
Be stern B •" 

tive call for educated young .Ameri­cans in the service of the state. 
We cannot and we would not stay the onward march of material prog­ress. We cannot and we would not go back to the antiquated system of business enterprize. We cannot and we would not scrap the machinery of our complicated social system. But we can and must make these new economic forces conform to the spirit of American liberty, American jus­tice, American toleration and the rights of man. This is the supreme problem of the statesmanship of to­morrow—a statesmanship that calls for the veiy best that the colleges can produce. 
Now I do not mean by this that all you young men should become pro­fessional office seekers and office hold­ers. It is not necessary to hold office to serve the public. The most serious problems of the modem banker, manu­facturer and merchant are increasing­ly the problems of statesmanship. 
-And here is a thought I would im-



The QUEST 
C/«.s-.9 Poein—1930 
RICHARD SULLIVAN 

• i skepticism, they have no 
 in parting—quick, oh quick, in starting!" 
press. We live under a government of laws, but we also live under a government of men. The government of laws is limited in its scope. There are problems aifecting the solidarity of the nation that cannot be reached .by the government of laws. In the government of men we are each of us our own executive, legislative and ju­dicial departments. Thomas Jefferson rendered an incomparable service when he forced the guarantee of civil and religious liberty into the funda­mental law, and we can go into any established court in the land and en­force that guarantee. But in the 
government of men, because of the prejudice and ignorance of men, we can be deprived of that happiness that should spring from the constitutional guarantee. It can destroy the soli­darity of the nation and the happi­ness of a people. And there is no greater service the educated American can render than by teaching, preach­ing and living that toleration which makes for the harmony of the people 
and the happiness of man. 13 Now all this means I merely that in the midst I of the confusion and chaos I of the times there must be i a mobilization of the = trained intelligence of the I nation if we are to hold I the line in the next gener-I ation for those things we deem sacred and essential to the welfare of the peo­ple and the happiness of mankind. And all these sacred things are being chal­lenged now. Liberty? They say it is the dream of an impractical philosopher. Human right? They say men have obligations but no rights. Freedom? They say it makes for chaos and confusion. Re­ligion? They say it is an opiate that puts the mind to sleep. The home and family? They say they are the vulgar device of 
1 doubts. They sacrifice. 
""0 They are eager to go up 

against the guns. They are intensive. They are tireless. They are aggressive. They are a menace because they are a ringing challenge. And if we are to meet this challenge we must rekindle in ourselves the spirit of the fathers, and with some­thing of their energy, assiduity and fei-vor, go forth like warriors of a faith and battle for the preservation of our own. 
Baccalaureate Sermon 

A masterly baccalaureate sermon was delivered Sunday morning, June 1, by the Very Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.P., editor of the Catholic World from 1904 to 1922, general secretary of the National Catholic Welfare Council in Washington, and former chairman of the executive board of the National Catholic Press Associa­tion. He is the author of many books and a writer of prominence. In 1919 Father Burke received the Distin­guished Service Medal in recognition of his valuable services during the war. 
A plea for a more devoted use of the powers of the mind on the knowl­edge and love of the truths of our Christian life was made by Father Burke. He based his message on the Commandment, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with thy whole mind" (St. Matthew XXII, 37.) "The funda­mental attitude of one's mind," said the speaker, "moulds the entire char­acter and life of the individual." 

"The conscious use of the power of the mind," Father Burke declared, "in the love of God, is a primary ob­ligation on the part of every Chris­tian. The further the mind pene­trates, assimilates those truths, the greater and \\-ider is its \-ision: the surer its strength: the deeper its love. The truths of our Catholic faith aifect every channel of human life. They light and they sanctify every corner of the universe. Christ is the King of men: Christ is the King of the whole created world: Christ is the King of all in all. His subjects can no longer see things as separate or apart from Him—but only as in Him. Evei-y part of human activity may be made Christ active in us. No actix-ity of our mind: no thought: no business deal: no asso­ciation with our fellows but either helps or retards the restoration and the extension of His kingdom. No channel of human action, be it what it may—our homes: our conversations and our friendships with one another: our vocation—^medical doctor, lawyer, ci\'il or electrical engineer, our view of politics and political questions, our interest or our lack of interest in the questions of the day; our view of hu­man society and our responsibilities to our fellowman—no channel of human action but is affected by our mind, as our mind is thoughtful of Christ "For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus." (Philip. II, 5). Oneness of opinion: sameness in judg­ment will not result. The gift of faith no more releases us from the burden of thought than the gift of the Cross releases us from the burden of suf­fering. Indeed, the burden of thought, the labor of the things of the mind, its subjection, its use, its exaltation unto the mind of Christ is essential 
to our co-operation in the discipline, 
the joy and the triumph of Christ 
Crucified, Christ Risen, Christ living 
in us." 
Another phase of Father Burke's 
sermon that has a bearing upon those 
of us who have been out of college for 
varying numbers of years was force­
fully expressed in the following: 

"The positive life of the Christian faith and of those who profess it is witnessed not only in the regenera­tion of the world, in the past, but in its regeneration and preservation to­day. The martyr defying the power of imperial Rome is witness to the worth of the individual man: to the supreme unearthly value of the hu­man soul. St. Paul in his appeal to Caesar testifies to the civil obedience of the Christian. St. Paul in his let­ter to Philemon melted the shackles of the slave. The family, as we know and reverence it today: the dignitj' of father and mother; the reverence for woman; the care and love of our fellows as our brothers — all these have their roots in Catholic truth and in Catholic education. 
Today the Church does not hesitate, as she never hesitated in all her his­torj', both to state the truth of Christ, to require that man love it with his whole mind; and to demand acceptance and of fidelity to it with his whole heart. Today, as from the first years, when the Christian church building was also a home for the poor and the needy, the Church does not hesitate to preach that we are not our own: we belong to Christ: we be­long to one another—and for the sins of our brothers, we through our sel­fishness, through our limited vision of social reponsibility, are ofttimes responsible. 
We cannot look lightly upon this positive content of Catholic education. We cannot interpret it as a matter of private standards that we may live by ourselves, as Catholics in isola­tion; uninterested and inactive in the moulding of the public principles of a world whereof the majority differ from us and wherein so-called, public good-will is a first consideration. 
The Christian standards of us Americans as a people have, in a great measure, disappeared. Common, learned attack is made upon every pillar on which our modem civiliza­tion is built. God is denied. Christ is dwarfed to a humanitarian level. Character is a matter of chemical re­action. Marriage is outdated. Child­bearing is the subject of laughter. Education need not concern itself with God. Any attempt to keep our country Christian is termed inter­ference: any assertion of the pres-er\-ation of Christian truth in our laws is termed intolerance. Any questioning of the dogmatism of sci­ence is branded narrowness. These un-Christian attitudes are not con­fined to personal opinion: they are of corporate strength, voiced by organa­zations watchful in propaganda: rich in financial resources. These organ­ized bodies seek to make the law of State and of nation conform to their own denials: to their godless plans. They seek to mould and make Amer­ica to their own liking. If they suc­ceed, ours will be a country different from that which we know and love, and our fathers knew. 
Our own love of country is be­yond question. It has been proved by the supreme test times without number." 
. The '25 Golf Match 

Perhaps the thing of greatest in­terest one gains from attending a class reunion is information regarding what his former class-mates are do­ing, and how well they're doing it. So, naturally a golf tournament should be held to learn which mem­bers are spending the most time on their golf. 
The tournament, held Saturday morning, May 31, was an IS-hole handicap. Handicaps were figured the night before at the class dinner at the Oliver Hotel, under the strains of a bit of punch, good food and Clarence Harding at the piano. 
Charlie Mouch, of Sandusky, Ohio, and Ed. Burns, of Pittsburgh, each shot an 84 to tie for first place. Naturally, both had to explain how they could be good enough to shoot an 84 and still do much with business. The two class "Professionals" played off their tie Sunday morning in a breath-taking 18-hole match, coming to the 18th tee all even. The last putt on the 18th green decided the match in favor of Burns, who took back with him a silver loving-cup donated to the class of '25 golf champion. 
Charlie Mouch took for his share of the plunder a canvas and leather golf bag which represented second prize. 
Other winners were as ' follows: Eddie Luther, third; Jack Melley, fourth; Paul Hoeffler, fifth; Frank Howland, sixth; Elmer Layden, sev­enth; Ed Cuddihy, eighth; and ninth prize was a box of golf balls divided among Bill Cerney, Ray Cunningham and Len Dorschel. 
Annual Meeting of the Association, June 1, 1930 
The Annual Meeting of the Asso­ciation, the Twenty-Third since its reorganization in 1908, was called to order in Washington Hall at 2 P. M., Sunday, June 1, by President John 
W. Eggeman, and opened irith prayer by Rev. John MacNamara, '97, Gar­den City, N. Y. 
Judge Eggeman expressed the wel­come of the Association to the mem­bers of the Class of 1930 and in a short taU< by Bernard VoU, '17, South Bend, Ind., the Class was fur­ther welcomed and on motion of Mr. Voll, admitted to membership in the Association. Mr. Voii stressed the importance of the participation of the young men in the Association affairs. 
Minutes of the 1929 Annual Meet­ing were read by the Secretary and approved. 
Judge Eggeman submitted the fol­lowing report: Fellow Alumni: 
So many things were begun this year that will, the officers for 1929­30 hope, continue indefinitely to e.^ist and progress, that it is difficult to estimate the value of the year with­out resorting to description that threatens the conventional modesty. But because the affairs of the As­sociation this year hark back to much constructive work done in the pre­ceding years, and because they de­pend so definitely upon the following out by the succeeding administrations of their conditions, I am going to run the risk of violating modesty in an effort to outline the significance of the year. 
Living Endowment, which begins its official e.xistence today, is by far the most significant part the Asso­ciation has ever played in the life of the University. It is a channel through which alumni loyalty and support can ilow in actual substance back to Notre Dame, there to build the Greater Notre Dame that is the ideal of every Notre Dame man, a University that will reflect credit in every way upon its graduates. 
Heretofore, we have been concerned too much ^vith the affairs of the "tug," while the great "liner" that is Notre Dame was struggling to find a safe harbor. Under the Living Endowment plan, we, who have a special kind of power and ability that Notre Dame can get from no other source, are able to play our impor­tant part to best advantage. 
Li^^ng Endowment, that plan which substitutes for a theoretical and dif­ficult capital endowment the body of alumni and friends of Notre Dame, has been outlined to you as it was studied, revised and adopted by the Board of Directors during the past year. 
Response to this plan practically defines the limits of the Alumni As­sociation of this University. There is no limit to our potentialities. 
During the past year the Associa­tion was increased by 600 members, graduates of the June and the sum­mer school Classes of 1929, an in­crease of fifteen per cent. 
Four new Clubs were definitely or­ganized during the year—but what was most important, a number of Clubs that have been nominally in existence reorganized for actual ser\-­ice and activity. There are more ac­tive Notre Dame Clubs than ever be­fore in the history of the organiza­tion, and every indication is that the outlook for these groups is rapidly broadening. The meeting yesterday of the First .Annual Council of Local Alumni Clubs is evidence of the liew interests and possibilities in that field. Projects during the year in various centers have revealed unexpected strength in the Club organizations and accordingly unexpected possi­bilities of an immediate nature. The standard Club Program recommended j-esterday by the Local Club Council will do much to encourage new and recent Clubs. The Clubs seem to have passed through the early and what may be called Social Era and prac­tically without e.vception are becom­ing aware of their more serious pur­poses and powers. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was a splendid indication of the new-strength of the Clubs. The Board of Directors selected the traditional date although it coincided with Easter Jlonday, so that the smaller Clubs might benefit from the undergraduate attendance. While this end was served satisfactorily, the disadvan­tages in the larger Clubs were nu­merous, and it was a gratifying man­ifestation of the strength and interest of these organizations that they car­ried through the Night in spite of them. 
Financially, all records for a single j-ear were broken, though in all jus­tice it must be added that much is left to be desired. Beginning the year with a deficit, the Association receipts exceeded last year's receipts by some five thousand dollars, and in spite of heavy expenditures for ur­gent expansion and the increase in the size of the Notre Dame ALUM­NUS, a balance of several hundred dollars existed on May 26. 
TREASURER'S REPORT FOR THE YEAE ENDING MAY 26,1930 
Receipts 

June 1, 1929—Deficit  5  127.74  
May 26, 1930—  
Dues collected  12,285.00  

Alumni Fund Donations- 2.00 Advertising 1,531.07 Subscriptions to Alumnus 9.00 Miscellaneous receipts 1.60 Interest on bond 60.00 
?13,760.93 

Disbursements May 26, 1930— -Administrative expense $ 4,360.00 Publishing Alumnus 5,690.58 Stamps, etc. 1,139.60 Office supplies 1,103.49 
•Miscellaneous 1,157.97 
§13,451.64 May 26, 1930— Balance on hand_ -_$ 309.29 
•Miscellaneous expense includes secretary's Iraveltns expenses, telegrams, binding; volumes, conunissions on advertising, rental of type­writer and mimeojn^ph, etc. 
The Board of Directors has held two meetings during the year, one on Nov. 16 at the Stevens Hotel, the other at the University, on iVpril 5. The President of the Association, Mr. Frank Hayes, chairman of the Com­mittee on Living Endowment, and the -•Vlumni Secretary also met with the University administration in the late Fall to clear up details of the Lii-ing Endowment Plan. The Association may be encouraged at the interest and serious effort that the members of the Board of Directors expend in the conduct of the Association affairs. As alumni activity expands, the de­mands upon the members are heavner, and the response has been all that could be asked. 
The ALUMNUS was increased in size this year with results that the Board of Directors feel justify the change. As the sole medium of con­tact between Notre Dame and the As­sociation and between the various branches of the Association, the Board feels that the ALUMNUS should be representative in every possible sense. The administration this year wishes to express particular appreciation of the support of the Classes and the Local Clubs which have been eridenced in the quantity of news from these sources. 
The administration has enjoye<l the cooperation of the University this year to an unusual degree, based on the introduction of the Living Endow^­ment Plan, and wishes to express at this time its appreciation of the en­couragement and interest of Notre Dame in all the plans of the .A.lumni -A^ssociation, not the least of which is the splendid hospitality accorded alumni at this Commencement. 
Alumni organization is, with the few exceptions that will be listed in the reports of the Secretary and Treasurer, a more or less intangible thing. It is difficult to say that in such a number of minds a new loy­alty and love for Notre Dame has been planted tluring the year, though the administration is morally certain that there has been a decided increase in this respect. Nor is it easy to know the number of men who have learned Notre Dame facts that they did not know before and have thereby benefitted themselves and their many friends, though we are morally cer­tain that in this field, too, there has been great progress. .And so it goes, through a series of developments that aie eventually essential to the development of both Notre Dame and the Association, but which do not adapt themselves to any accurate standard of measure which can be in­corporated into a report such as this. 
Summing up, it is the privilege of this administration to report that a sun-ey of the Alumni -Association as it now exists reveals a closer unity, a stronger interest, and a greater support in every way than at any pre\"ious period. We ai-e far from satisfied with existing conditions as such. But we derive a sincere grat­ification from these conditions as in­dicative of a trend in our afi'airs to­ward those ends which we who have been entrusted with the conduct of the Association for the past year en­vision as both highly desirable and reasonably attainable. 
The Secretary's report was read and approved. It appears elsewhere in this issue. 
A resolution passed by the Board of Directors was read, offering an amendment to the Constitution to facilitate voting. The Resolution will be reprinted in the -ALUMNUS next year and made a part of the official Ballot for 1931. 
M. Harry Miller, '10, chairman, Francis O'Shaughnessy, '00, Byron Kanaley, '04, submitted the following resolution: 
Whereas God in His wisdom has taken from this life Captain On'ille Tryon Chamberlain, 1860-1862; Rev. George William Albertson, C.S.C, 1914; Michael F. Healy, 1882; Wil­liam O'Brien, 1892; .Abraham Living­ston, 1884; Charles Springer, 1928; Judge Nicholas J. Sinnott, 1892; Ed­ward J. Fogarty, 1885; Rev. John Desmond O'Shea, 1893; Rupert P. Mills, 1915; James P. Fogartj', 1900; Fi-ancis M. Keough, 1894; Henry L. Dehner, 187G; -Albert Kachur, 1901; Clifton R. Murphy, 1892; J. E. Fish-burn, 1875; James V. O'Donnell, 1889; Rev. Dominic Matallana, O.P., 1916; Walter C. Bins, 1918; Robert H.John­son, 1S61-62; Tliomas A. Connelly, 1895; Patrick Fitzpatrick, 1871; Dr. William P. Grady, 1899; Leo J. Hogan, 1909; Malachy Daniel Clark, 1910; Oswald Geniesse, 1926; Francis 
D. Pender, 1927; John B. Marre, 1886-92; G. H. Kellj', 1902; Brother Gilbert, C.S.C, 1924; Ferdinand E. Ivuhn, 1883; George M. Fitzpatrick, 1917; William J. Towle, Sr., 1887; Hon. William P. Breen, 1877; Dr. John F. Fennessy, 1899; Rev. Emiel Peter DeWulf, C.S.C, 1903; loyal and <levoted members of the University of Notre Dame Alumni Association during the past year, and 
Whereas those members have ser\'ed their .Alma Mater with glory in their respective avocations. 
Be it resolved that this -Association extend its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives with promise of prayers that the same God in His mercy will be generous to their souls and grant them that eternal rest which we all so earnestly seek. 
Be it furher resolved that an ex­pression of the above be written on the official records of the Alumni -As­sociation and a copy be sent to the bereaved relatives. 
Respectfully submitted, 
M. Harry Miller, '10, 
Francis O'Shaughnessy, '00, Byron V. Kanaley, '04. 
-Alfred C Ryan, '20, moved the election of the following list of mem­bers to the -Association, recommended by the Board of Directors and recom­mended, in view of a large list of ap­
plicants which had to be cut to some 
extent, that membership for non-
graduates be made a recognition for 
service rather than a matter of ap­
plication. On his motion, the follow­
ing men were elected: 
Dr. George C Mullen, Chicago, III.; 
Dr. Nicholas M. Doyle, Chicago, III.; 
George Kerver, Lakewood, Ohio; Alex­
is Coquillard, South Bend, Ind.; Phil 
J. Doherty, Jr., New Yoi-k City; Mario Dominguez, Chicago, 111.; Wil­liam A. Deifarari, Columbus, Ohio; Charles -A. Winter, East Orange, N. J.; E. F. Hoffman, Wheeling, W. Va.; Peter. McDonough, Jr., Plainfield, N. J.; John W. Courtney, Chicago, 111.; Richard J. Monroe, Chicago, II!.; Martin P. Meehan, Chicago, 111.; L. 
P. Locke, Chicago, 111.; George B. Kelly, Syracuse, N. Y.; John -A. Hen­neberi-y. Oak Park, 111.; Thomas F. Cai-fagno, Baltimore, Md.; Morris Locke, Chicago, 111.; W. D. "Hogan" Morrissey, Cincinnati, Ohio; Ralph G. Ittenbach, Indianapolis, Ind.; Nat Mc-Dougal, Portland, Ore.; Gordon Sen­nett, Buffalo, N. Y.; William J. Bel­linger, Niagara Falls, N. Y.; James J. McQuern, Columbus, Ohio; John 
V. -Abbott, Paterson, N. J.; Nor­bert M. Scharf, Toledo, Ohio; Robert 
E. Donovan, New York City; Dr. Charles E. Guth, Elyria, Ohio; Ed­ward D. Kelly, Emmetsburg, Iowa; Bernard H. Miller, Racine, Wis.; George M. Anson, Merrill, Wis.; Cavl Pick, West Bend, Wis.; F. J. Clifford, Chicago, HI.; Hugh J. McManigal, Cleveland, Ohio; Peter B. Brosnan, Chicago, 111.; Robert P. Winter, Chi­cago, 111.; James B.'Duggan, Chicago, 111.; Raymond J. King, Brooklyn, N. Y.; Stephen B. Fleming, Fort Wayne, Ind.; Samuel H. Nussbaum, Chicago. 
The tellers, C C Mitchell, '02, Paul R. Martin, '09, and Frank Steel, '25, delivered their report. Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, '90, was an­nounced honorary president; Frank 
E. Hering, '98, president; William J. Granfield, '13, vice-president, and Peter P. McEUigott, '02, director for four years. On motion, the report was accepted and the above officers declared elected. 
The retiring President Eggeman read the following telegram from Di­rector Paul McGannon: Deeply re­gret my absence from annual meet­ing today . . . Sincerely trust your Living Endowment Plan gets off to a good start as this is the greatest idea ever advanced to fit Notre Dame's needs. 
Judge Eggeman repeated his pre­vious appreciation of the cooperation of the .Association during his ad­

June, 19 JO 301 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Students Present "Journey's End" 
ministration and welcomed as a man most ably fitted to carry on and de­velop the work the new President, Frank Hering, who took the chair. 
In his remarks, Mr. Hering voiced sentiments which are substantially present in his message to the alumni in this issue. His enthusiasm and e\'ident sincerity very much im­pressed his audience and those .who were present left the meeting with the reflected enthusiasm and sin­cerity of the new president. 
The meeting was opened to new business. 
William D. Jamieson, '05, Chicago, made the suggestion that the names of .41umni be provided on the Com­mencement badges as well as the Class. 
On motion of Frank O'Shaugh­nessy, '00, Chicago, the meeting gave a rising vote of thanks to retiring President Eggeman and his admin­istration. 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, '10, Wooster, Ohio, gave a very encouraging report of Notre Dame's place among other alumni . organizations, based on a meeting of the Fifth District of the -•Vmerican Alumni Council in Wooster last January at which the Notre Dame Secretary presided. 
James E. Sanford, '15, Chicago, made the suggestion that membership in the Association, in line with .A.lfred 
C. Ryan's previous remarks, be made more difficult and thereby more ap­preciated. The subject was referred to the Board. 
Vitus Jones, '02, South Bend sug­gested an Alumni Directory, a sug­gestion seconded by John W. Egge­man. Henry Hasley,'28, Fort Wayne, outlined the difliculties in compiling the Law School Directory. The en­tire topic was referred to the Board. 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty suggested some communication with alumni im­mediately upon receipt of the news of the death of a Class and Club mem­ber, particularly advising the Class and Club officers. The practical dif­ficulties were advanced and the mat­ter rested without definite action. 
On motion of Daniel J. O'Connor, '05, Chicago, a telegram of sympathy was ordered sent to Mark M. Foote, '73, who was in Sacred Heart San­itarium; Milwaukee. (Mr. Foote's subsequent death made this telegram a source of appreciated consolation to the family, although Mr. Foote was not conscious at the time of its re­ceipt or after.) 
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned with, prayer by Father Moriarty. 
R. C. Sheriff's famous war play, "Journey's End" was presented by the University Players to a Com­mencement audience May 30 in Wash­ington Hall. This makes the first time that-a contemporary Broadway favorite has been enacted by the stu­dents at Notre Dame, and by the evident approval of the audience was well received. It was so successful 
from every angle that it bids well for the future of the Notre Dame theatre. 
scenes. Mr. Beime, who played the part of the cook. Private Mason was the sole one in the cast who had the noticeable accent which is quite de­sirable for giving atmosphere to this English play. Mason's part called for a decided Cockney accent, and the result was such as to supply the necessary color and tone. 
William Sherman, cast in the role of the frightened soldier, came very near stealing the show from those 
THE CAST OF "JOURNEVS END" (/.'•/( to rif/ht) •\^ornian Ilartzer, William Sherman, Viryilius PhiUipg, Frank Wathcr, John A'oJCfrj/. Cart ChrtMtiangnt, Prof. Albert Doyh; Rover Beime, Walter Stanton, Robert Ilaire. 
Al Doyle playing the part of Cap­tain Stanhope, and Walter Stanton as Lieutenant Osborne, were the leading actors in the campus production. Mr. Stanton, acting the part of a genial old schoolmaster, was continu­ously on the verge of surpassing Mr. Doyle's acting in the leading part; however, in many of the New York performances of the play Osborne's • role often overshadowed that of the leading actor, as it is a part calling for the actor's presence on the stage almost continuously. 
Before the first act had got well under way it was easy to see that John Nowery and Roger Beirne were the popular actors with the Notre Dame audience. Possibly it was not only due to their splendid acting but also due to the fact that they played the parts which introduced the ele­ment of humor for the play itself is tragic in theme, and the relief that these two gentlemen afFonled the audience by their funny lines was well appreciated, especially when the two spoke together in the dinner cast in the "lead" part. His task as Hibbert was indeed a difficult one to portray, for it was perhaps the one large piece of drama in the whole play, and it took an ingenious and well trained person to take the part. Mr. Sherman played his part well, for he had a difficult auilience before which to enact a "sob scene," and be­sides this difficulty he had to over­come the natural impulse to overdo the dramatic in his part. 
There was an unseen figure whose presence was felt, and that was Pro­fessor Frank Kelly, production direc­tor of the entire play. It was he who with the aid of Frank C. Walker, was greatly instrumental in obtaining "Journey's End" for our use; it was he also who made special trips to New York in order that he might acquaint himself with the production of it by first hand information; like­wise it was he who cast and directed the entire company so well that they gave an excellent performance within the very few weeks that they had in which to work.—(The Scholastic). 
AS IN THY YOUTH -^y •^^'er M Eleamre, C 5. C 
Though thinking in the past tense is commonly supposed to betray ad­vancing age and consequent mental decline in human beings considered singly, in institutional groups of hu­man beings such thinking normally indicates perennial youth and increas­ing wisdom. That the man on the watch-tower of Notre Dame Uni­versity has the Janus vision that combines healthily the progressive and the consen-ative points of view was manifest to any one who listened to Notre Dame "on the air" on the night of Ap'ril 21st or who read the president's speech in the papers of the next day. All who call Notre Dame by the lovely title that has no English equivalent in translation could'justly be proud of her as epit­omized for the listening world that night. 
St. Mary's will be turning often to Notre Dame this summer with that gratitude which is the beautiful mem­ory of the understanding heart; for on this August loth, we Sisters of the Holy Cross celebrate the Diamond Jubilee of our foundation on this chosen spot. St. Mary's, however, is two years younger than Notre Dame in the United States, and her first home in the New World was in a little room over tlie chapel at Notre Dame. Yes, my dear alumnae of Notre Dame, ours is an old associa­tion; for there were women students living on the campus in the year 1S43 —^four homesick, bewildered, pathet­ically young Sisters came all the way in a sail-boat from France to Amer­ica, that they might labor at Notre Dame. 
The Sisters, however, did not know that they were the forerunners of the splendidly organized summer school of 1930; they knew only that their principal study after religion, the English language, was strangely dif­ficult, that their living conditions were most uncomfortable, that the sweet dream of possible martyrdom at the hands of the savages was over, and yet, that so long as their two professors. Father Sorin and Father Cointet, said Mass every morning in the little chapel, everything else could be endured. So they washed and mended the clothes of the priests and Brothers and boys and kept the buildings clean and studied in the meantime to prepare themselves to open a boarding school for girls. 
When at last they were ready, they learned to their dismay that the good 
Bishop of Vincennes would not allow 
them to open a novitiate and a school 
in Indiana, because he thought two 
schools conducted by Sisters could 
never live in these sparsely settled 
districts, the Sisters of Providence 
having come one year ahead of our 
coming. So they settled at Bertrand, 
Michigan, and remained there till 
1855. During these years Sisters 
and pupils had the constant privilege 
of instruction by the professors from 
Notre Dame, who trudged cheerfully 
over the six miles in all kinds of 
weather to bring to them the Holy 
Mass and also scholastic learning. 
Happily, in the summer of 1855, St. Mary's Academy, buildings and all, came to dwell here close beside Notre Dame. Down through the long years the Fathers and Brothers of the University have been spiritual guides at St. Mary's. When the formally organized summer school was only a dream. Sisters of St. Mary's were receiving degrees from Notre Dame; though there was none of the thrill of commencement. In those days religious women did not appear at such public functions. The president brought over our Master's degrees and handed them to us in the seclusion of our own parlor. And we earned them! There was Father Bolger, for example, who for four years kept some few of our noses on the economics grindstone countless hours a week, made us write theses of about t\venty thousand words in length—composition meaning at least four re-writings — and then told us that the complete results "would do" for a Master's degree. We came through with a wholesome respect for scholarship in general that makes any intellectual effort immensely worth while. 

Through all these years there has been a mutually helpful spirit be­tween the two institutions, the spirit created by our Father Founder, the Very Reverend Basil Moreau, and nurtured by Father Sorin. Whenever in the early days a new building was needed at Notre Dame, St. Mary's gave all she had to give; whenever a new building was needed at St. Mary's, Notre Dame helped pay for it. The alumnae of St. Mary's col­lected money to purchase the Statue of Our Lady that is the glorious crown of the University. The priests and Brothers of Notre Dame paid for two thirds of our first academic building. These are but material gifts. When Notre Dame lay a smouldering heap of ruins, the arms of the priests and Brothers were up­lifted by the love and prayers of the Sisters. Whenever a heartache has come to any Sister through death, she needs but mention it, to receive for the soul of her loved one the greatest of all a priest's gifts. 
We at St. Mary's glory in the splendid scholastic achievements of Notre Dame; we rejoice at her pres­tige in the domain of athletics; and most of all, we bless her name for her glorious spiritual labors among her young men. In many rightful ways we call her our school; for she is the daughter of the Holy Cross and the beloved of the Mother who stands beneath its shadow. Brothers and Sisters say not "mine" and "yours," but "ours." 
Brothers and Sisters, we have jour­neyed down the years, hand in hand on the King's Highway, the Royal Highway of the Holy Cross. Shoul­der to shoulder we have labored to build two temples of learning modeled truly on the blue-prints traced in the very heart's blood of our Father Founder for every house of Holy Cross, in young America red with her blood of martyrs, in sun - parched -Africa, in jungle-burdened India, in warm - hearted Italy, in snow - bound Canada, and first and dearest of all, in the generous Mother country France. Here we have tried to re­member what he told us when he dedicated to God and His sorrowful Mother the great and beautiful Church of Holy Cross in Le Mans: 
"The construction of the material 
temple would leave with me only re­
grets if, as it gradually rises, it 
should not become in the same pro­
portion the image of the invisible and 
spiritual temple which we are called 
upon to establish and of which we 
ought to be the living stones. Faith 
laid the foundations; hope must rear 
them to the heavens; chastity must 
clothe the walls with dazzling white­
ness; obedience must bind together 
all the parts; and charity must crown 

the summit. The virtues of fortitude, temperance, prudence, and justice must be its four immovable pillars. There must be also an altar whereon we may offer spiritual victims by the immolation of our terrestrial desires. -Let us be the tabernacle wherein God reposes, for His Kingdom is within 
us." 




T/ie New Officers J or 1930-31 
T
HE new officers are really so cemented in the make-up Asso­ciation that to do more than list their names is to waste space. 
Genial Father John Cavanaugh, whose fourteen years as President of the University, 1905-1919, made him known and loved both at home and in the broader campus of^tTie nation, will be Honorary President. Both as-an honor and as a part of the exec­utive machinery of the -Association, the choice oi Father Cavanaugh re­flected the wisdom of the nominating committees. 
Which calls attention to this point —there is no defeat in the annual election of officers for the -Association. The honor of being nominated by the two committees, selected carefully themselves and themselves careful in selection, is the climax of honor. Election by ballot is only the anti­climax, a technicality by which the Constitution and the demands of or­ganization management eliminate an alternate. Obviously, had the choice for Honorary President fallen upon Dr. Zahm, of Washington, D. C, holder of the Chair of -Aeronautics of the Guggenheim Foundation in the Library of Congress, it would have been handled to the equally complete satisfaction and advancement of the interests in the -Association. 
Frank E. Hering, associated as ath­
lete, as scholar, as instructor, as 
coach, as athletic advisor, as Lay 
Trustee, as alumnus, and always as 
friend, in the development of Notre 
Dame for the past thirty-two or more 
years, takes the presidency, qualified 
by his own fraternal and editorial ex­
pei-ience to meet the present problems 
of the Association as are few of the 
members of the -Association. 
His neighborliness, in both body 
and spirit, give him an advantage 
that only one other president, Mr. 
Mclnerny, has had. 
Here again, John Corley, '02, a 
classmate in the law school with Mr. 
Hering, was an admirable running 
mate, whose success would also have 
been in line with the progress of the 
-Association. 
Hon. William J. Granfield, '13, 
Congressman from the Second Dis­
trict, Massachusetts, will act as Vice-
President for the ensuing year. -As 
the first Democrat to serve in Con­
gress from his District, a change only 
after 51 years, "Peaches" or "Bill" or Mr. Grandfield has his hands full in Washington and in his home dis­trict, but his acceptance of the honor was filled with the spirit of willing­ness to sen-e that has made the -As­sociation and Notre Dame go steadily upward. 
Frank C. Walker, '09, who was the second candidate for the office, has been a quiet, consistent friend of ' Notre Dame since his graduation. His 
1£Q 
FRANK E . HEKING, President 

efforts in behalf of the University were e.xemplified in the unusual priv­ilege the school theater had in pre­senting "Journey's End" while it was still a New York and Chicago success. 
Peter P. McEUigott, '02, has been identified with alumni affairs in New York and in the national Association for over twenty-five years. He was a charter member of: the first Notre Dame Club of New York. He is prominent in the legal and political circles of both his city and state and his four year term as Director brings to the executive Board a man familiar with the problems that face that group. 
His "opponent" was Francis F. Du­quette, a classmate whose business activities have located him -in Three Rivers, Mich., somewhat off the beaten path that is followed in the' Club news of the -ALUMNUS, but a spot in which his Notre Dame spirit has been of the same service as that of his brethren i n the more populous Notre Dame centers. 
In the retention of Walter Duncan as Treasurer, the -Association is as fortunate as it is wise. The Treas­urership has long since become more than an honor. It involves time and expense, for which no adequate re­muneration is proWded and for which none has ever been asked. Walter succeeded the long and glorious reign of Warren -A. Cartier, '87, and has taken up the sceptre with the same astute managing ability. 
Judge Eggeman, whose administra­tion brought about the breaking of many records and the institution of what will probably be the most sig­nificant movement in Notre Dame history, becomes ex officio a member of the Board of Directors for a year, succeeeding Don Hamilton. His ex­tra year of sen'iee will be of ines­timable value to the Board and this year's administration. 
The present Alumni Secretary has been reappointed. 
Midcrone Runs Again 

"Mulcrone's Run" of 1902 is famil­iar to ti J Notre Dame men of that period. The early century edition of what happened to Riegels in Califor­nia is among the classics of Notre Dame football. The Sorin - Corby rivalry was at its height when "Mull" ran half the length of the field in the deciding game, decided from the efficiency of his interference that he was running the wrong way, reversed himself on the five-yard line and with his opponents quickly forming inter­ference, ran ninety yards towards his own goal, being tackled on his on-n five-i'ard line by a desperate teammate. 
Charles Mulcrone has run again, this time over the Republican goal line in St. Ignace, Mich., where he runs the Gateway City Garage, to score the first Democratic mayoralty touchdown in twelve years. The vote was the largest in the city's history. 
The issue was the moving of an old dock and the booming of the city, Mr. Mulcrone's election being considered a vote for progress. He has been ac­tively interested in the development of a state park at the entrance to Hiawathaland, has helped in building up one of Northern Michigan's finest resorts, Castle Rock, and, according to the St. Ignace Enterprise, "his soul is wrapped up in the town's wel­fare . . ." 
••itttit)aiiiiiiiiiHtiiiiaiiiiiiiiiitiii)iaiititititiiiii>iiaiiiiiiiii»iiiia«tiiiiiiaiiiiitti«iti(i«tiiiiMiiftii(tMiiii>iittiiiHiiiiMit)i<iiiaiiii*ii«tiMitiiiiii«iiiitit 
EDITORIAL 

atiiiaiaaiaaaai taaMiaatiaiaiaii tttaita 
..Q 

IVe Have Arrivedl 
S
INCE 1869 Notre Dame alumni have attempted to express in various ways their admiration for their Universitj\ As alumni, as organized alumni, in fact, we have come a long way. It is a distinct pleasure to advance the opinion that we have arrived. 
Eighty-six Commencements have passed. Each has sent out Notre Dame men. These men have lived and died in a manner that has become traditional, beautifully and honorably traditional, with Notre Dame. 
It remained for the Eighty-Sixth Annual Commencement to send out a body of Notre Dame men, an Alumni Association, that will live as have the individuals preceding it, and that will die only when the University dies. 
Li\nng Endowment, that plan of easily-borne financial assistance to the immediate needs of Notre Dame, is by far the outstanding achievement of the year just passed, culminating in the official launching of the project on June 1. 
It is the early and generous response to the pioneer appeal of this Plan and the fine spirit evidenced in the discussion of it during Commencement that leads to the confident prediction that we have arrived. 
With our numbers, with our Notre Dame spirit, with the new alumni life opening before us, and with Living Endowment as a nucleus for our relations with Notre Dame, we may consider our­selves at our destination. We may here begin building the permanent structure that will rise side by side with Notre Dame. May there be no confusion of tongues. 
In Frank E. Hering the Association has chosen well. The new president of the Association, through his sei-\'ice on the Board of Lay Trustees, knows, as do few men, of the struggle of Notre Dame to maintain financial soundness in the face of great expansion and increasing costs. Through his years as a member of the athletic teams and the coaching staff of Noti-e Dame he knows the athletic life of the University. Through his years as an instructor and his later contacts as a resi­dent of South Bend, he knows the academic side. Through his years of work with the Eagles fra­ternal order and with the Government during the World War, he knows organization problems. As editor of the Eagles Magazines, one of the great fraternal magazines of the country, he knows the problems of the printed word. 
This is our president for the ensuing year. He comes to an Association more closely knit than ever before. He comes to an organization of forty-six Class units, headed by Secretaries increasingly active and interested. He will find fifty-five Local Alumni Clubs, unified for the first time this year in a Council of Local Ciubs, growingly alive within their communities, already a force in the Notre Dame life of the nation, possessed of potentialities just now becoming apparent. He inherits an Alumni Office, compara­tively in need of much, but also, comparatively, possessed of much. He will speak largelj' through , an ALUMNUS which now reaches 5,300 gi-aduates of the University. 
These are the tools with which he must work. 
His problems you know. A Greater Notre Dame, greater than its present greatness, realizing the possibilities that present expansion so clearly reveals, is in a world too near to be a dream. To realize the present vision that is the Greater Notre Dame, Mr. Hering must have tools without flaw. 
To the Clubs, to the Classes, the ALUMNUS and the Alumni Office extend these words of greet­ing for another year. Put your houses in order. You will be called upon as Classes. You will be called upon as Clubs. You will be called upon as individuals. New opportunities will be offered to you. New advantages will be given to you. A new demand is being made upon you. 
But you remember Father Charles O'Donnell's adaptation of the slogan of the Musketeers, "One for All, and All for One!" Notre Dame is, and has always been, for all of you. It is not too soon, eighty-eight years after Father Sorin first fought the poverty of matter with the richness of spirit, to ask that that slogan be completed. 
Football Tickets—Important Changes! 
I Alumni Whose Diies Are Paid Only Ones to Receive Preference; Tickets For Army l I Game Limited to Four in Prefei-red Section; Ahimni \ i Preference to Close September 15. \ 
I A number of changes in the distribution of football tickets to Alumni will become effec-| I tive for the games next Fall, according to the Football Ticket Committee. | 
i Authorities of the Army Athletic Association have requested the entire east side of Sol-| I dier Field for the Army-Notre Dame game, November 30th. Notre Dame receives one side \ I of the Yankee Stadium when the game is held in New York. The west side of Soldier Field | I will be the Notre Dame side. The student bodj'', numbering approximately three thousand,. | I together with the three-j'^ear and the one-year season ticket holders, which sale will be be-| I tween six and seven thousand, means that approximately all the seats between the goal lines | f will be filled in the above classes. These matters were explained to the delegates to the | I First Alumni Club Council, and it was suggested to them that by reducing the alumni | i allotment for this game to four, it would mean a more compact alumni section and the | I alumnus for his own family would secure better location by this reduction. It was the ex-| I pressed opinion of the delegates to make this change. I 
i It was also the expressed opinion of the delegates that only those alumni whose dues | I are paid by August first and which payment to be in the hands of the Alumni Secretary on | i August first will receive preference. The application of an alumnus whose dues are not | I paid will be handled the same as a general public application. Last year for the Southern | I California game the dues paid alumni section began at the fifty-yard line and ended at the f I end zones of the playing field. Last year there were eight hundred alumni who paid their | I dues before August 1st. I 
I It has been found necessary to make a closing date for alumni to place their applica-| I tions for tickets. Each year- the Football Ticket Committee receives numerous applications | I for alumni tickets to a game that has been a sell-out for weeks before. With a closing date | I for alumni applications, the Alumnus is assured of preference provided the order is in the" | I hands of the Football Ticket Committee before the closing date—which will be September I I 1.5. A closing date is in effect in practically all Univei-sities where sell-out games are | I played. It is also true among these Universities "that the total number of tickets allowed | 1 to an alumnus is two and it is necessary for the alumnus to sign a statement that he will | I use one of the tickets himself. | 
I Application blanks will be mailed, first class mail, to the Alumni about July 20th. If | I through any reason you do not receive application blanks in time for you to have your | I order in the office of the Athletic Association on the opening date of the sale, August 1st, i j write to the Alumni Secretary and another set of blanks will be mailed you immediately. 1 
I ONLY ALUMNI WHOSE DUES ARE PAID WILL RECEIVE PREFERENCE! | 
ALUMNI PREFERENCE CLOSES SEPTEMBER 15th! | 
GET YOUR ORDER INsJEARLY—CO-OPERATION AVOIDS COMPUCATION! | 
1  
30 5  THENOTKEDAMEALUMNU  S  June,  1930  |­ 
H".  






SAINT TH€HA$ Ml! 
1 <
ST. PAL 
The Alumnus of Notre Dame s 
s 
Military school West of New jt-k 
militai'y." 

St. Thomas Military A cadem^ Honor Rating 
Each year all military schools are inspected by the Govern­ment. St. Thomas has been granted honor rating during following j'ears: 
1908 1918 1909 192.5 191.5 1926 1916 1927 1917 1928 

Less than 30% of all Military schools in the Union may be so rated. 
^^^^^H^^^'--r^^^9 
^^^^^^^HSn$^^^ 'r' :^jSt 

S?<S5S 
^^^^^Ki-^' . •.'?'. k»5.. ; .••-• 

^^KW^'^ 
^^^^^^^^^^^Bc'^'W' --3.•!>->••-.f­^^^^^^^^^^^H^r ^.'^l^'.:' 
If^'^-'^-' 
^^^^^^^^^•Si :'-:».i%r ^r^Tj'"-.^^ 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^_.. -^.•,^. 
^^^^^^^^^^^^KaiiiiiJ»i -'v^^i^ » ^B^'^ ^^^^^^^^^^^^^K!:.''>:'> '^'*^fS^ 
Rev. Mattheiv Schumacher, CS.i 
Other Fathers of Holy Cross eC St. Thomas arj Father Cunningham, '07, CS.C. Fs 
Rev. Vincent Mooney, CS.C. 
Father Gallagan, '06, CS.C. Fi Father Boyle, '08, CS.C FJ 
Address all communications: Lester Pierce, M. A., {Notre Dame '2 

LlTACy ACADEAiy 
U: MINN. 
s his boy to the only Catholic rk designated as "essentially 
College of St Thomas 
The Liberal College 
"recognized for merit." 
The Professional Schools Law Commerce Education 
Catalogue on Request. 

>.( resident, College of St. Thomas 
e College of St. Thomas and ary School: Father Bolger, '07, C.S.C. 
Capt. Andrew Tychsen
Father McGinn, '06, C.S.C. 
Father McAllister, '22, C.S.C. 
Regislrar, COLLEGE OF ST THOMAS, ST. PAUL, MINN. 
..Q 
B" 
iiiiiiiiiiiiMiaiiii •iiliiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitiiiti><i(iiiiiiiiMiii"iiitiiiiititiif)iii>iiiiiiiittiiiiti«iit«iiiiaiiiiiitiiiiittitiit)iitiiiiiiiitiiitiii)ititiiiiitiiia iiiiiiiiiiittiiimininpl 


ATHLETICS: 

IIIIIIIDlItlltMllllllDIIIIIII'tlOl IIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIII It •tititiiiiiiiiiiMiiaitiiMiiuiiiiiiiullHltiidiiiiiiitiiiiiit 1)111111111 IIIIIIIMIIIIItllllltlllllllll 
..^ 

A review of this year's athletics in this issue has to be brief. For­tunately, it can be brief, because in the major sports, particularly, the world knows Notre Dame's record for this year. 
A National Championship in Foot­ball was awarded to Notre Dame al­most without dispute. The following schedule and results explain them­selves: 
Notre Dame 14, Indiana 0. 
Notre Dame 14, Navy 7. 
Notre Dame 19, Wisconsin 0. 
Notre Dame 7, Carnegie Tech 0. 
Notre Dame 2G, Georgia Tech G. 
Notre Dame 19, Drake 7. 
Notre Dame 13, So. Calif. 12. 
Notre Dame 26, Northwestern 6. 
Notre Dame 7, Army 0. 

Notre Dame received the Rissman trophy for the second time. The University also received the Erskine trophy. During the season Notre Dame scored 145 points to opponents' 38. 
Jack Elder was high point scorer, with 42 points, also holding the rec­ord for the season's longest run, that of 97 yards in the Army Game. Joe Savoldi was second high point scorer. 
Jack Cannon and Frank Carideo were unanimous selections for prac­tically ever.v AU-Anierican team se­lected. 
Notre Dame's track team, under John P. Nicholson, showed great strength. The team re-captured the State Title and held the Central In­tercollegiate title by a decisive win at Milwaukee. The sensational array of collegiate talent that shattered records right and left in the Nation­als on June 7 found Notre Dame still able to hold out for 13th place with 10% points, an achievement in the. face of the balanced and powerful competition. 
Alex Wilson, Canadian Olympic star. Brant Little, a fellow Canadian, Captain Joe Abbott and Quigley, O'Brien, Bailie and McDonald, were the mainstays of the team this year. Under the captaincy of Johnny O'­Brien, hurdler, the 1931 team should also be of very representative caliber. The defeat of Illinois during the indoor season was the outstanding achieve­ment for the year, as far as alumni, at least, are concerned. 
The North Star of N. D. Athletics Is Back in His Firmament. 

The University basketball team responded to Coach Keogan's efforts unusually well in the face of the pre­ponderance of new material. The team won fourteen of twenty dif­ficult games. Donovan and Smith, veteran All-Western guards, and Jack McCarthy, forward, stood out con­-sistently, with more than scattered flashes from the newer men, Gavin, Newbold, Crowe, and DeCook. 
The loss of Smith, Donovan, Mc­Carthy and Kizer gives Coach Keo­gan another bad spell ahead for the next season, but the coach is used to reconstruction. 
A baseball team whose quality was questioned in the early season, took hold under Coach Keogan and went into the schedule with surprisingly good results, _ so good that talk of dropping the sport entirely as an in­tercollegiate pastime has been hushed considerably. Good field work backed up a fairly consistent but not bril­liant pitching staff. The team was consistent poison to Big Ten teams this year, winning over Wisconsin, Iowa, Northwestern, Illinois and In­diana. 
.4.t present writing, the University golf team has captured State honors and is expected to play a surprising part in the intercollegiate national golf tournament. 
Ne.\t year's football schedule is as follows: 
Oct. 4 — Southern Methodist, at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 11 — Na\'y, at Notre Dame. (Stadium dedication game.) 
Oct. 18—Carnegie Tech, at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 25—Pittsburgh, at Pittsburgh. 
Nov, 1—Indiana, at Notre Dame. 

Nov. 8 — Pennsylvania, at Phila­delphia. 
Nov, 15—Drake, at Notre Dame. 

Nov. 22—Northwestern, at Evan­ston. 
Nov. 29—Army, at Soldier Field, Chicago. 
Dec. 6—Southern California, at Los Angeles. 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii •tt imnutmimniM>mttmimittiiiiniiimiimnniiiiiiitMiiM«»iiMiiiiniiinMt|W 
Ci 

ALUMNI VJLUBS 
lll<tl»l*lllilllllillllllli •iiii)iMi«iiiittiiiiiiiiitiiiititiiiiiiaiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiMiia<«iiiiutii))tiiiiiii)itiiiiiiiia<t*iitiMtai)t*iii*iiiaMiiiM| i 

First Annual Alumni Club Council Is Success 
Discussion by Delegates Bnngs Out Possibilities; Members and University Approve New Organization; Papers Delivered Helpful; Plans Extensive for Year. 
The first annual meeting of the Local Alumni Club Council was heUi in the Lay Faculty Dining Room and Lounge on May 31. Fourteen Local Clubs were represented — Chicago, Cleveland, Cincinnati, Detroit, Fox River Valley, Fort Wayne, Indian­apolis, New Jersey, New York, Roch­ester (N.Y.), the St. Joseph Valley, Toledo, the Tri-Cities and Peoria. In­cluding speakers, there were twenty-two in attendance. 
In the nature of the organization, designed by the Board of Directors as an advisory body before which problems could be placed for respon­sible and representative consideration at a given time, no decisions were made which are in any way binding upon the Clubs, whose autonomy re­mains intact. But problems were dis­cussed and decisions were made which it is hoped will find favorable re­sponse and action. 
An outline of the program will best indicate its value and its results. While the attendance was less than had been hoped, much was accom­plished and another year should see the majority of Clubs represented. 
The meeting was called to order by Hon. John W. Eggeman, '00, pres­ident of the Notre Dame Club of Fort Wayne, after a luncheon in the Lay Faculty Dining Room as guests of the University. 
President Eggeman announced that the Board of Directors had called the Council with the basic idea that the Clubs have grown beyond the pro­visions originally ma<le for their de­velopment. He stressed the impor­tance of the Clubs in the present life of the Association. The suggested Articles of Association now available for new Clubs the Board feels are inadequate and make no suggestions for an annual program. For that reason, and because of the develop­ment of the Clubs themselves he out­lined the Council as a clearing house for e.xisting Club problems and proj­ects, and a source of guidance for new and younger organizations. 
J. Arthur Haley, '26, graduate manager of athletics, was the first speaker on an informal speaking pro­gram. Mr. Haley outlined the ticket situation and its difficulties to the delegates. He pointed out the diffi­culty facing the Athletic Office this Fall when Army plays Notre Dame in Chicago. The Council, on motion of Mr. Slaggert, Detroit, recom­mended that the Athletic Association aid alumni in securing better seats for that game by reducing the num­ber of tickets in the preferred section for alumni. On motion of Rev. M. L. Moriarty, delegate from the Cleveland Club, the Council recommended that the Athletic Association give pref­erence only to alumni whose dues are paid. On motion of Mr. Costello, Chicago, the Council gave Mr. Haley a vote of appreciation for his eff'orts in handling the ticket situation. 
Byron V. Kanaley, '04, Chicago, gave a short talk on the possibilities of aiding Notre Dame men, young men particularly, to secure jobs. His outstanding suggestion was the ap­pointment of prominent men on Local Club Committees for this purpose, who could secure interviews with prominent employers for boys seek­ing work. That phase he stated was the most vital in importance. 
Charles 0. Molz, Detroit, gave a brief discussion of the problem of dues in the Local Club, outlining the Detroit situation and concluding with the opinion that if a Club can find a substitute for dues and can stimulate the payment of national alumni dues, the best interests of both Club and Association would be served. 
E. J. McErlain, St. Joseph Valley Club treasurer, gave a most interest­ing and important discussion of fi­nancial aid for students. After a long discussion the Council recom­mended that the old form of scholar­ship for Clubs, by which the Uni­versity was obligated for a third, the student for a third, and the Club for a third of the cost of education, be discontinued as working a hardship upon the University. Student loan funds, by which various amounts, as needed, can be loaned by the Clubs to a student, to be repaid by him, were suggested as the alternative for aiding the student. A suggestion was also made whereby the Clubs may be instrumental in aiding in the selection of students of outstanding merit. 
John P. Hurley, Toledo, gave a brief talk on Local Clubs and their relations to the Association. He pointed out the difficulties the Clubs have encountered in being used for the advancement of individuals and urged the suppressing of this self-advancement at the expense of the organization. Steps, whereby the Clubs might aid the national Asso­ciation, particularly in finances, were discussed and approved in principle. 
The need for a more or less definite Club program was discussed and the' President empowered to appoint a committee from the Club officers to draw up a suggested annual program for all Clubs, to be particularly use­ful in the development of new Clubs. President Eggeman appointed Frank 
T. Fitzsimmons, president of the Chi­cago Club, as chairman of this com­mittee, the members of which are the following Club presidents: Dudley Shively, St. Joseph Valley; Henry I. Dockweiler, Los Angeles; George Burkitt, Jr., Houston; Joseph Nulty, New^ Jersey; Alfred N. Slaggert, De­troit; P. E. Burke, Louisiana-Missis­sippi; Hugh A. O'Donnell, New York City, and Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, 
C.S.C. The Committee will probably hold a meeting in the Fall in conjunc­tion with the Army or Navy games. 
James Kelleghan, Chicago, outlined the experiences of the Chicago Club with a Club publication, and cited similar experiences in Kentucky, the first Club to publish its own medium, 
and Detroit. The benefits of this 
means of contact with all members 
were brought out and a motion passed 
recommending some form of publica­
tion, from a mimeographed sheet on 
up, to all Local Clubs. 
Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C. out­
lined the possible and desirable rela­
tionship between the Club and the 
undergraduate, beginning in high 
school with boys of all good qualities 
and talents who may be interested in 
Notre Dame, tracing them in relation 
to the Clubs as they go through 
Notre Dame, to the time when, as 
graduates, they join these Clubs, not 
as new members, but as members 
familiar with the good that the Club 
can do. 
A more detailed report will be pre­
pared and sent out to the Clubs as 
soon as possible. In the meantime, 
this brief outline of a few hours dis­
cussion should indicate in a small 
way the unlimited power for develop­
ment that lies in the Council. 
ALBANY 
"The Notre Dame Club of the Capi­
tol District will hold an outing at the 
McGregor Country Club on Saturday, 
June 7, 1930. Teeing off at 2 p. m." 
was the content of an attractive an­
nouncement recently received from 
the Upstaters. 
BENGAL From far-off India and Father J. J. Hennessj', C.S.C, '02, comes the fol­lowing interesting letter: I suppose we are as far from N. D. as a Club could be, but we're right there. 

• At our last meeting stories as old as the ale went round, for we are not all spring chickens. Someone asked if Angus McDonald's punt of 82 yards in Brownson campus against the Chi­cago P. and S. has ever been beaten. Another wanted to know if such men as Hanly and Farragher could hold ­the present line. But it was not the marching by of the Irish backs that made us feel proudest of being N. D. men. No. 'Twas the marching past of the Irish Ghosts—Fathers Walsh, Cooney, Corby, Regan, Morrissey— the backs and backbone of yesteryear. 
Our meeting was noisy and newsy, but to give you an impression of the noise or the news is very difficult be­cause our literary output for many years has been centered in begging letters.... Yours for Auld Lang Syne and N. D. U. 
(The photogi-aph of the Bengal Club, -with the e-xception of Father Kane, who was absent, appeared in the May ALUMNUS.) 
CHICAGO 
Comes Quad Wrangles to cover up 
the omission of the Big Night in Chi­
cago on April 21: 
The jolly, wisecracking, sociable 
crowd that gathered in the Bal Tab­
arin of the Sherman Hotel, the night 
of April 21, to celebrate Universal 
Notre Dame Night was as good a 
representation of Notre Dame as one 
could wish to see. 
Men were there who talked a lan­
guage strange to the youngsters of 
the past few years; who recounted 
events concerning giants of times 
long past. They spoke familiarly of 
heroes whose halos were hazy before 
the present century was born, and 
whose names are only tradition to the 
more recent graduates. 
Then there were those whose hair 
was sprinkled with gray, and those 
with fresh unlined faces who outnum­
bered the others five to one. The past 
merged with the present imperceptibly 
in a group which bubbled over with 
good fellowship. 
The evening passed quickly. A faultless dinner was climaxed just before dessert by a procession of waiters bearing letters of ice flashing with varicolored lights which spelled out NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHI­CAGO. 
Following the dinner, president Frank Fitzsimmons introduced Jim Sanford who spoke briefly, but ex­pressed the sentiment of the gather­ing in saying that whether a man attended Notre Dame for a day or a year it was long enough to catch the spirit of the place, and that each would admit that it was the greatest influence of his life, barring not even home and mother. 
He thanked Father Charles O'Don­nell as the representative of Notre Dame for what Notre Dame had con­tributed to those present individually and collectively, and that all present should pledge their lives to pay off the debt they owe to Notre Dame. 
President Fitzsimmons then intro­duced Father O'Donnell, who paid high compliment to the Club and stat­ed that alumni interest in the Uni­versity was never so keen as it is to­day and stressed the need of taking elections of national alumni officers seriously. His words from then on were of such interest that they were reported separately. 
Upon concluding his talk, Father O'Donnell left to deliver a radio ad­dress from station WGN. He was followed by Warren Bro\vn, who proved as usual a delightful guest. 
His humorous remarks produced con­tinual gusts of laughter. His adop­tion of Notre Dame as his alma mater is described in another story. 
Warren Brown was followed by Jerome J. Crowley, whose distin­guished grace and eloquence lent dig­nity and power to his words. Mr. Crowley prefaced his address' with reminiscences of his years at Notre Dame, including a description of the capture of St. Mary's during the Spanish-American war. He went on to discuss the influence of Christian education as fostered at Notre Dame in defeating the communism and so­cialism that is rampant throughout the world. 
Suddenly the crowd was whisked away to another city and another land. Maurice Chevalier, dapper and smiling in the person of Irving Cor­coran, appeared from nowhere to sing "Bluebird." Following this, Vince Ducey, master of ceremonies, intro­duced Maurice to the feminine guests of the evening who were none other than Peggy Joyce and Sophie Tucker ably and comically impersonated by Frank Hetried and Ray Mulligan. 
Then the curtains were drawn back revealing a crowd gathered in a Parisian night club to celebrate Uni­versal Night in Paris. The distin­guished guests assembled there were in turn introduced by Vince Ducey. 
II Duce, Benito Mussolini, otherwise John Costello, talked in his native language about speakeasies in Rome or some other interesting topic—one guess is as good as another. Sophie Tucker followed Mussolini with a theological interpretation accompanied by suitable steps and gestures, of the sinfulness of taking off one's skin, though in Sophie's language it was 'It ain't no sin to take off your skin.' 
Then who should appear but Al. Smith, Brown derby, roman nose and all, to describe his visit to Notre Dame. Bob Irminger's personification of the notable ex-governor left noth­ing to be desired. 
Not to forget Peggy Joyce, oh no! If Peggy could sing like Frank Het­ried, she would have been content with one husband. But then of course talents are never well distributed. 
The program was finished off in close harmony with much flourishing of empty steins in a piece called the "Stein song." With the singing of "The Victory March" another Uni­versal Night took its place in history. 
The Club tendered the late Mark Foote a birthday luncheon on the 

June, 1930 311 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
regular luncheon date, April 25. Mr. Foote, at that time in the best of health, enjoyed the e\idence of friend­ship greatly. 
CLEVELAND Fred Joyce sends in the following report: Dear Jim: You may be interested in what the Cleveland Notre Dame Club did on Universal Notre Dame night. We held what we considered the most success­ful Notre Dame dance ever held in Cleveland. It was given jointly by the Alumni Club and the Student Club and was a huge success. It was held at the Jlid-day Club, atop the Union Trust Building. The toastmaster read the names of the various alumni clubs throughout the country honoring Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
KANSAS CITY The following from Maurice Carroll explains itself: Dear Jim: I have been out of the city for some time and had to delay sending the results of Notre Dame Night in Kan­sas City. Had the best crowd we ever had for the big night. About forty of the boys met in the Kockne suite of the Com­modore Apartment Hotel, and had a very informal lunch, with short talks by Judge Tom Holland, '17, Joe Stewart and L. F. Buckley, 1911, who is an e-xecutive of the Chevrolet Com­pany here. Two Christian Brothers who were summer students at Notre Dame were guests of honor. All of the local radio broadcasting stations played the N. D. songs, and of course we "shook down the thunder from the sky." 
After the lunch, talks, etc., we all journeyed to Jerry McGee's Night Club in the counti-y, and entertained ourselves and the other guests with Notre Dame song and music. 
At the meeting plans were formed to have monthly luncheons at the Commodore, and all agreed to work for a closer cooperation for Notre Dame and the local club. 
Expect to send you later word of the success of our plans, and believe we are making a real club in old Kansas City. 
We appreciate your earnest work for the Alumni Association, and are trying to help out all we can. 
NEW YORK From Ed Bjrrne comes this news: The Notre Dame Club of this city wishes to e.xtend to the graduates of the Class of 1930 its most hearty con­
gi-atulations and wishes for temporal 
and spiritual success in the years to 
come. 
With the coming of the summer 
months finds our club destined for a 
successful year with many events to 
interest the various members of the 
Notre Dame club. As everyone of us 
has a different interest, we are ar­
ranging affairs so that everyone will 
be pleased. That is a difficult task, 
but we hope to succeed. To that end 
we are anticipating the cordial co­
operation of every member here in the 
• city. At the present time we are having luncheon every Thursday at the Fra­tei-nities Club, so we would be delight­ed to have any Notre Dame man visit­ing the city of New York to drop in and see us at that time. Notre Dame men from other states would like to see their classmates when visiting New York, and I would be pleased to get in touch with them.' Jlany of our boys attended Com­mencement, and were happy to be back home'again. With the cooperation of other clubs along the Atlantic seaboard, we are arranging a trip to Notre Dame for the dedication game at the new stadium with the Naval Academy. We hope to make this the most important event of the coming fall. Everybody in New York is excited over the prop­osition. The idea belongs to Dr. James Flynn, president of the Wash­ington, D.C., Notre Dame Club. There has been organized in Brook­lyn, a Brooklyn Bengalese Club, start­ed by business men, who are not Notre Dame men, to advance and. help in every waj' Notre Dame's Mission in Bengal. John Heffernan and myself were elected members of the board of governors of this club, for these men wanted a direct connection with the Notre Dame men in the city. This club is asking the cooperation of all Notre Dame men to further the won­derful work that the Priests and Brothers of Notre Dame are doing in India. I was up to Montreal over the holi­day and paid my respects to Brother Andre, at St. Joseph's Shrine. Several of the boys just passed the New York bar examination, which has now become an examination. Only 
one-thii'd of the number taking this test were able to pass. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Keene Fitzpatrick writes this news: Dear Jim: Bert Dunne who was elected pres­
ident of the Notre Dame Alumni of Northern California Club on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night has been promoted by his employer, the Camp­bell Ewald Advertising Agency to the office of Manager of their Dallas office and in this capacity he will be unable to serve as president. He tendered his resignation and accord­ingly John S. Mclnnes, first vice-president, will be the new president. John Mclnnes' address is "c-o Ste­phenson-Leydecker & Co., Alexander Bldg., San Francisco." 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA 

Out of the Smoke Zone comes the following breath of fresh air; via G. 
H. Kingsley, Jr.: Dear Jim: 
This letter should have been in your hands weeks ago, but I hope it will be able to catch the ne.xt issue of the ALUMNUS. At least, here's hoping. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was obsen-ed by the Notre Dame Club of Western Penna., in a truly N. D. manner, in the Dutch Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel. About seventy-five old grads were present, and several well known guests. John J. Kennedy, of the class of '09 and John McCaf­frey, of the class of '07, were "Old Timers" of our gathering, and each of these men gave a little talk, red blooded talks of their time and times at Notre Dame. Several visiting Alumni found the way in and I'm sure every one of them enjoyed everj' minute. Brother Edward, Principal of the new Central Catholic High School for Boys, in Pittsburgh, was one of the speakers, and he had the men sitting attentive all during his talk. Professor Charles Phillips, pro­fessor of English at Notre Dame, was our Honor Guest and principal speaker. He brought Notre Dame closer to most of the gathering, than it has been for quite some time, and the officers of this club cannot thank Charles Phillips enough, for the splen­did support he gave them in making the Universal Notre Dame Night of 1930, a real success, in Pittsburgh, Pa. Our only regret is that some of the other clubs missed the talk that Charles Phillips gave in Pittsburgh, April 21, 1930. 
New officers have been elected since you last heard from us, Jim, and here they are: Elmer F. Layden, '25, Pres­ident; James S. Devlin, Vice-Presi­dent; John C. Sheehy, '28, Treasurer, and G. H. Kingsley, Jr., Secretarj-. These men will try to make the club run as smoothly as our retiring offi­cers did, and if we succeed, we will consider our work well done. 
Also our Weekly Luncheons are still being held in Gimbels Dining Room, Sixth Ave. and Smithfield St., Pitts­burgh, Pa., every Thursday at twelve fifteen. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON 

Wronged Civic Pride cries out justly in the following welcome letter from Jerry Hagan: Gentlemen:— 
It seems that my letter with the account of the doings of our club in obser\-ance of Universal Notre Dame Night, has gone astray. The result has been that the report from Spo­kane has been published as an ac­count of the meeting of the Notre Dame Club of We.stem Washington. This irks us not a little, since Spokane, while a beautiful little ham­let, is located in the extreme eastern end of the state — where the alfalfa flourisheth and the oats blooms. 
However, be it known that we were there with bells on, made the welkin ring, and did whatever else is cus­tomarj' on such an occasion. 
Our last meeting of the season, held May 25th, was the occasion of the installation of officers for the coming year, so I might as well chronicle some of the order of the evening. 
The meeting was the largest gath­ering of Notre Dame, alumni ever held in Seattle. Following the ban­quet, held in the Bergonian Hotel, the following officers were vested with the power to do or not to do: 
President, Geo. L. Nyere 

Vice-Pres., Clarence Shannon, M.D. 
Sec'y-, Jerry Hagan. 

The program of entertainment was in charge of a committee headed by Emmett Lenihan, who spoke briefly. 
B" 
IIIIIIIIIOIIIII 
B-• lllllltMIIKIIIII Deaths 
MARK IL FOOTE, A.B., 1S73 
Bjf Paul R. Martin, '09 
(Court«J>-(Jiiad WrantjlrK) 
Mark M. Foote is dead. 
Coming unexpectedly as it did, close upon the joyous festivities of commencement week, this word, flashed by the Chicago newspapers on Tuesday morning, June 3, brought deep sorrow to the hearts of Notre Dame men wherever it reached. Ill only ten days and little suspecting that what appeared to be only a slight indisposition would terminate fatally, Slark Foote passed away at Sacred Heart Sanitarium, Milwaukee, on the afternoon of Monday, June 2. Fitfully conscious almost to the last, this venerable alumnus during Fri­day, Saturday and Sunday, frequently turned his thoughts to Notre Dame where his fellow alumni \%-ere gath­ered for the annual reunion and com­mencement exercises and where an­other class was being sent forth from the halls of their alma mater, equipped as Notre Dame equips her sons, to meet the realities of life. 
It was perhaps, the first commence­ment that Mark Foote had missed in fifty-seven years, for in his loyalty and devotion to the university he loved with a filial love and which he regarded as his second home, he had year after year turned his footsteps towards her campus that he might 

^THE ALUMNI: 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiioaiiiiiii 

witness the graduation of succeeding generations of students and take an active part in the social and business affairs of the Alumni Association. 3u t in his last hours, as death hov­eretl over him, there was one great consolation. A priest of the Con­
gregation of Holy Cross, the Rev. James French, stood by to offer the prayers for the dying; his three chil­dren were at his bedside and gentle-faced Sisters of the Holy Cross 
congratulating the club on the splen­did increase in membership which he attributed ihiefly to the current wave of Republican prosperity. 
The program: DUET: "Stein Song" E. L. Cochrane & Emmett Lenihan. 
TENOR SOLO: "Stein Song"....Pat­rick Heney, Richard Fuitte, Accom­panist. 
N. B. At the time of going to press no explanation had been of­fered for this duplication. 
ADAGIO DANCE :....James Phelan & Dan Lamont. 
Following the program retiring president, Frank Kirkland was pre­sented with a cork gavel, appropriate remarks being made by all present. 
Other things happened, too nu­merous to mention, but we will try to be there with a full account of the next meeting, to be held in Sep­tember. 
smoothed his pillow. It was a kindly act of Providence that thus placed him in the hour of death among old friends in the midst of a scene -so like that to which he had been ac­customed in boyhood and early man­hood, for throughout the greater part of his life he had regarded him­self almost as a member of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross — a sort of tertiary member, as he himself put it — and its priests, its brothers and its sisters he numbere<l among his best loved friends. 
He was at the time of his death, the third oldest liiing alumnus of the university and he was the oldest alumnus in Chicago. His seniority in the ranks of the alumni body was exceeded only by that of the Hon. John M. Gearin of Portland, Oregon, who was graduated with the class of 1871, two years before Mark Foote, then a mere stripling, received the de­gree of Bachelor of Arts in 1873, and by W. T. Johnson, '68, Kansas City. He was believed by most alumni to be the oldest member of their or­ganization, because he was always the oldest at commencement reunions, and because of his active interest in university affairs. His term of office as Honorary President of the alumni association ended vrith the installa­tion of the new officers at the meeting of June 1. 
It was difficult to realize that six years ago he achieved man's al­lotted span of three score and ten 

and that had he lived until 1933 he would have celebrated the sixtieth anniversary of his graduation from the university, for he was ever young in mind and heart and many a man of fifty would have envied him his physical appearance. When applica­tions for football tickets were sent out, Mark Foote was among the first to subscribe; when excursions to the Army game, the Navy game and other contests were organized, he was sure to be among the enthusiasts to make the trip. It was with the pride of a Freshman that he returned from the .A.rmy game in 1926, bringing with him a part of the .A.rmy goal post, a portion of which was made into a desk souvenir for the Rev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, then pres­ident of the university. And last year too, he procured a part of the goal post and told the story of its capture with great gusto at a lunch­eon of the Notre Dame Club of Chi­
cago. 
His interest in basketball, base­ball and track was just as keen as it was in football, but most of all, this alumnus was interested in the aca­demic and cultural side of university activity. He rejoiced as new courses were added to the curriculum, as fa­mous professors augmented the fac­ulty, as priest-teachers went to Ox­ford, to Cambridge, the Sorbonne and Vienna for advanced degrees in their special subjects. He would travel miles to a glee club concert or an intercollegiate debate, and kept constantly in touch with the Notre Dame men who were doing things in literature, science and the professions. 
Mark Foote was little more than a boy when he left his home in Iowa to enter the University of Notre Dame. To him it was all new and strange with not even the tie of religion to bind him to the school he had selected to be his alma mater, for he had been born and reared an -Anglican, or an Episcopalian, as the Church of England is better known in this country. Of Catholicity he knew little except that it was harshly criticized in the little town of his birth, where, as he has often said, his own father was the only non-Catholic who dared raise his voice in defense of his Catholic neighbors. But at Notre Dame this young stu­dent absorbed not only the truths of secular knowledge, but those of reli­gion as well. He saw, as few men see, the soul of the Church and he realized that here indeed, was the One Lord, One Faith, One Baptism of which St. Paul has spoken. With­in the Fold of Peter he sought ref­uge, thus dispelling all doubt and un­certainty. As a faithful Catholic he lived and as a faithful Catholic he died, his whole life centered in that religion he had espoused as a youth. 
He entered Notre Dame during the presidency of Father Corby, whose laurels as hero of the battle of Get­tysburg were still fresh. He was graduated during the presidency of Father Lemmonier, founder of that great library to which students from many universities now flock in search of materials which will cast new light upon certain phases of .American his­tory. When he was graduated in 1S73, John A. Zahm, who was des­tined as a priest and provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross to become one of America's greatest scholars, received his master's degree, and the gentle and kindly Timothy E. Howard, one time chief justice of the Supreme Court of Indiana, but better known to several generations of stu­dents as a professor of law at the university, was another of his class­mates. James Farnam Edwards, to whom Notre Dame owes so much, was still an undergraduate who did not receive his degree until 1875. 
For two years after his graduation, Mark Foote remained at Notre Dame as a teacher, and in 1875 received the degree of master of arts. He was not a pioneer as the men of the pre-civil war days had beeen pioneers, but even in his day there were hardships in plenty. At the time of his entrance the civil war had been over only four years, and it is well known that Notre Dame was almost devastated during that dread period. The third college building, the forerunner of the present administration building, had been completed only two years, and when Mark Foote was a Fresh­man the Alumni Association was was formed and Notre Dame belatedly obser^'ed her silver jubilee, which should have been celebrated in 1867, an undertaking impossible at that time because of lack of means. It was about this time too, that Father Sorin, who as a young priest had founded the university, was elevated to the position of Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Mark Foote was a contributor to the then infant Notre Dame Schol­astic. He was one of the earliest readei-s of the Are Maria and in­timately he knew such men as Father Granger, Father Carrier, Father Neill Gillespie and others of those valiant pioneers who helped to lay the foun­dation!? of what the world knows to­day as the Greater Notre Dame. To him, these memories were precious heritages and nothing gave him greater pleasure that to reconstruct the old days for those of the alumni who were genuinely interested in the history of the university. But he was never prolix, nor did he, as so many old pioneers are prone to do, live entirely in the past. To him, the Notre Dame of the present, the pro­gressive, constantly advancing Notre Dame, was the vital thing, and while he cherished the memories of old friends, dead and gone long since, he pinned his faith to the men of the present, realizing that they were the able and competent successors of those who had gone before. Mark Foote kept pace with the university in all things, and to him the Army game of 1929 was far more important than somje inter-hall contest of 1870 when a barrel of apples was awarded as a prize. 
He was loved by every alumnus of the university that ever came into contact with him, while the men of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago con­sidered him as their own. He had lived in Chicago for many years and since 1892 had occupied virtually the same desk in the auditing depart­ment of the City of Chicago. He was regular in his attendance at the weekly luncheons and at all the special <linners and other functions given throughout the year. On those rare occasions when he was compelled to remain away, the inquiry would come from every side: "Where is Mark Foote?" It was co-incidental that this year his patronal feast, that of St. Mark, the Evengelist, fell on the day of the weekly luncheon and %vas celebrated in a special manner. A large cake, brilliantly illuminated, had been provided, and to Mark Foote it all came as a pleasant sur­prise that brought joy to his heart. 
It was only a little more than ten days before his death that he went home from his office feeling slightly 
ill. He had been planning on going to Notre Dame for the commence­ment and decided it would be well to take a rest before making the trip. With his son and daughters, he drove to Milwaukee and entered Sacred Heart Sanitarium. But his condition was far worse than he had surmised. A blood clot had formed and rapidly he sank into a comatose condition. From time to time he rallied only to sink back into a sleep again. The Last Sacraments were administered and on Monday, June 2, he died as he had lived, faithful to God, to Countrj', 
to Notre Dame. 
During the time that his body lay 
in state at the family home, 6427 
Han-ard Avenue, scores of Notre 
Dame men passed before the bier, 
pausing to offer a prayer for him 
whose life had been a prayer. The 
funeral was held at St. Bernard's 
Church, Thursday morning, June 5, 
and was attended by Notre Dame 
men from Chicago and elsewhere. 
The university was represented by 
the Rev. Dr. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, 
former president; the Rev. Dr. 
Michael Mulcaire, C.S.C, vice-pres­
ident; the Rev. Dr. J. Hugh O'Don­
neil, C.S.C, prefect of discipline and 
Mr. James E. Armstrong, alumni 
secretary. At the solemn high Mass 
of requiem, the Rev. J. L. Ivenney, 
curate of St. Bernard's, was cele­
brant, with Father Hugh O'Donnell 
as deacon and Father Mulcaire as 
sub-deacon. The Rt. Rev. Msgr. J. F. 
Ryan, rector of St. Bernard's, de­
livered a beautiful eulogy. The final 
absolution was pronounced by Father 
Matthew Walsh. The following rep­
resented the Notre Dame Qub of 
Chicago as honorary pall-bearers: 
Daniel J. O'Connor, George Maypole, 
John Costello, Frank Fitzsimmons, 
Paul R. Ryan, Byron Kanaley, C. C 
Mitchell, Joseph J. Sullivan, James 
Sanford and Daniel Curtis. 
Three children survive the deceased: Mark Foote, Jr., a graduate of Notre Dame; Mrs. Regina Crawford and Miss Cecelia Foote. Mrs. Foote died some years ago. 
REV. EMIEL F. DEWULF, C.S.C, A.B. '03 
Death claimed an outstanding Uni­versity official, a valued member of the Congregation of Holy Cross, and a faculty member in the person of the Reverend Emiel DeWulf, C.S.C, di­rector of studies at the University, Wednesday evening. May 21 in St. Joseph's Hospital. Father DeWulf was ill but five days, his sudden death coming as a shock to faculty and students. 
When Father DeWulf entered the hospital his condition was not re­garded as serious, his stay there be­ing more for a rest than for any­thing else. Tuesday evening his con­dition became grave and on Wednes­day morning he was administered the Last Sacraments of the Church. Members of his family and memhers of the faculty of the University were present at the bedside when the end came at 7:30 p. m. 
Father DeWulf was bom in South Bend, Indiana, on March 26, 1883. He attended the parochial schools of South Bend, entered the University in 1899, and was graduated in 1903. He pursued his education at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C, and was ordained to the priesthood on June 28, 1908. He made a graduate study of mathematics at Catholic University and began his teaching career at St. Edward's University, Austin, Texas, where he also served as prefect of discipline and director of studies. In 1914' he suceeded the Reverend John Boland, C.S.C, as president of the University. 
Being recalled to the University of Notre Dame in 1917, Father DeWulf taught in the College of Science, teaching astronomy and physics. He remained a member of the faculty until he was appointed director of studies in 1927, a position he has held for the past three years. 
As director of studies Father De­Wulf was responsible for many im­provements in the sj'stem of registra­tion and choice of studies by the stu­dents. Though his duties as director of studies were arduous and time-consuming. Father DeWulf, courteous and quiet of voice, was always ready to help the student whether he was senior or freshman, and whether he wanted advice on a course of studies or merely a copy of the University catalogue. Father DeWulf was an inspiration to all who came in con­tact with him. His place will be hard to fill. 
The Scholastic carried the follow­ing editorial by Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C 
A useful light went out Wednes­day evening when Father DeWulf died at St. Joseph's Hospital, South Bend. Not a conspicuous light, be­cause Father DeWulf obscured him­self in his work. He retreated behind the pressing duties of his position which called for endless check and re­check, count and re-count, adjust­ment and re-adjustment. He was a doer, not a talker. He did not parade his tasks in speech. He enacted them in service. He was the marj-tr to duty Father Charles O'Donnell said he was in the announcement previous to his May sermon Wednesday eve­ning. 
Father DeWulf had his small king­dom down in the office of studies; and he ruled it quietly, benignly, and in the highest measure effectively. He was at everybody's call;and no urgen­cy, impatience or offensiveness could ruffle the outer calm within which he lived. He kept order in the house­hold of his own office and quietly helped to keep order in the household of each classroom. He lived in hid­denness—the hiddenness of his work room. He was detached from all else except his religious duties and his daily pursuits of credits, class periods, statistics and reconls. 
He was beautifully human. Always spoke the gentle word. Always turned away harshness, belligerency, unreas­onableness with quiet speech. He rarely spoke about what he was go­ing to do. He simply did it. And when he acted he acted firmly and with finality. Father DeWulf will be missed at the University. Less for his visible- presence than for the un­forgettable presence which he has left us in organization and accom­plishment during his stewardship as Director of Studies. He died at his post. Died quietly, even as he lived. Died well, you may be sure, because he was a man of method in the whole course of his life. And he carried his method with him when the time came for him to die. 
Graduates will listen to much Com­mencement advice in spoken words these closing days. They should not overlook that richer eloquence of Father DeWulf's life which came to sudden halt last Wednesday evening. Let them keep in mind the lesson of the man who died at his post. Quietly, hopefully, The watcher who went out in his watch. And it was a faith­ful watch he kept too. God rest him! 
Father John O'Hara's Religious Bidletin commented: 
He needed not to "give charge con­cerning his house," for his affairs were all in order. He lived out the policy of the good religious, to do each day's work for the love of God, without care for the morrow, so his high and exacting office was in per­fect order for his successor, and his soul was ready to meet God. Indeed, in his scrupulous devotion to his work, to which he literally gave all the day and a large part of the night (although he was an invalid for years), it was his faithful spirit that drove a frail body till it sank ex­hausted. He admitted last week, when he was ordered to bed, that the last two days at his desk had been the most trying days of his life. 

But it was a beautiful way to die, and we thank God for the privilege of having known him in life and in death. His eminence in astronomy and mathematics did not disturb his humility; in fact, few of the present generation of students were aware of his scholarly attainments. He said Mass for the students in the base­ment chapel every morning for the last two years, and his Mass was beautiful to see. In the preceding years, when he was a confessor for the students, he was as faithful to that duty as to the Mass. And al­ways he was the soul of kindness. He went to God with his arms full of good works. 
REV. STANISLAUS BILECKI, C.S.C., -A.B. '20, assistant pastor of St. Stanislaus Church, South Bend, died May 9 in St. Joseph's Hospital, after a week's illness. The REV. FRANCIS J. NOWAKOWSKI, C.S.C. assistant pastor of Holy Trinity Church, Chicago, was celebrant of the solemn Requiem Mass and the B.EW. DR. STANISLAUS LISEW-SIvI. C.S.C, '20, preached the sermon. The Moreau Seminary choir of Notre Dame sang for the services. Burial took place in the community cemetery at Notre Dame. 
Father Bilecki, son of Mr. and Mrs. Peter Bilecki, was a native of South Bend and one of the youngest Polish members of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He was ordained in 1925. Since that time, with the exception of a few months, he has been stationed at St. Stanislaus'. The deceased was taken ill on the eve of the parish's pearl anniversary celebration. May 4. Death followed an operation for ap­pendicitis. 
Word has been received of the death of -A.LPHONSE J. JULY, Boy Guidance, '26, who died May IS, at his home in Milwaukee. He was for­merly with the Los Angeles Diocesan Charities, but because of illness Mr. July had been inactive for the past two years. 
The ALUMNUS e.xtends the sym­pathy of the Association to JOHN S. LAVELLE, '28, whose father died May 21; to BERNARD WINGER­TER, '26, and JOHN J. WINGER­TER, '28, who lost their father re­cently; to 0. W. CREPEAU, '89, whose ivife, Mrs. Ma}' Crepeau, died several weeks ago, and to JOSEPH H.-VRVEY, JR., '26, who lost his father recently. 
The ALUMNUS also extends sym­pathy to DAVID W. SAXON, JR., '29, whose fiancee. Miss Marion Jamieson, Chicago, was killed in an automobile accident several weeks ago. 
The ALUMNUS wishes to call the attention of the alumni to the fact that DR. JOHN F. FENNESSY, .A..B. '99, whose death was listed in the May issue of the magazine, was the son of Mr. Jeremiah Fennessey, who gave the Fennessey collection of books to the Law Library at Notre Dame. 
I Man'iages \ « * Miss Helen O'Donnell was married to VINCENT A. SCHUH, '25, on Tuesday, June 3, in DeKalb, III. 
The marriage of Miss Irene Pearl .A.lby, daughter of Mrs. Pearl -A.lby, South Bend, and ROBERT J. GIL­LESPIE, '26, of Pittsburgh, Pa., was solemnized May 27,'in St. Monica's Roman Catholic Church, Mishawaka. Miss Marguerite Alby and Miss Mar­garet Mary Dillon were attendants, and CHARLES H. LYNCH, '28, Des Moines, la., was the groom's best man. 
The couple left on a motor trip through the East and will be at home at 209 Ross St., Wilfcinsburg, Pa., after June 3. 
air. and Mrs. Wm. E. Vaughn an­nounce the marriage of their daugh­ter, Helen Rose to WILLIAM FRAN­CIS CRONIN, '2S, Monda}', June 2., in St. Barnabas Church, Chicago. JOSEPH TIMLIN, '28, RICHARD HALPIN, '27, and WIL L I.AM 
VAUGHN, a student at Notre Dame, were members of the wedding party. Mr. and Mrs. Cronin will be at home in New York City. 
JOHN C- OHNEMUS, '27, was married to Miss Catherine Simshau­ser, of Mishawaka in St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church, Mishawaka, May 8. REV. JOHN J. MARGRAF, C.S.C, '15, married the couple. 
-According to word received from Vicfcsburg, Miss., the wedding of ROBERT FREDERICK EVANS, JR. '28, to Miss Anatalia Mulvihill, of Vicksburg, was to be solemnized on June 5. 
Miss .A.gnes McCormack, of Louis­\ille, Ky., became the bride of VIN­CENT F. FAGAN, '20, on June 4., in Louisville. Mr. and Mrs. Fagan are spending their honeymoon in South-em Europe. 
I Engagements I « « Rev. John J. Margraf, C.S.C:, in­forms the ALUMNUS that HENRY 
J. MASSMAN, JR., '28, has an­nounced his engagement to Miss Ce­celia Nangle of Kansas City. Miss Nangle is a graduate of New Rochelle College. The date of the wedding has not been announced. 
THOMAS RYAN, '23, Chicago, is to marry Miss Katherine Feeley, also of Chicago, in July. 
Announcement is made of the en­gagement of Miss Winnifred Kath­ryn Hartsock, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. C C. Hartsock of Austin, Minn., to W. BARTLEY SHANLEY, '29, son of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Shanley, of Cando, N. D. Miss Hartsock is a graduate of St. Catherine's College, St. Paul, Minn., and for the past year has been employed in the Uni­versity Library at Notre Dame. The wedding will take place in the early part of September. 
T Births * 
* • 
A clever birth announcement from 
. H-A.ROLD F. HALL, '25, announces the arrival of "a fourth band for bridge." Douglas Walsh Hall ar­|rived May 10, and weighs ten and one-half pounds. 
Chalk another one up for the Class of '25. air. and Mrs. RICHARD MULLANEY, '25, announce the birth of Jacqueline, May 2S. 
JAMES A. RONAN, '2G, explains his absence from Commencement by sending in the announcement of the arrival of Margaret Mary, Jlay 30. 
Mr. and Mrs. HARRY M. BIEDKA, '27, are the proud parents of a girl, Marilyn Louise, who was born May 5. 
WILLIAM J. DONELAN, JR., '29, in a recent letter says: "Since Feb­ruary 13, I have been the proud pos­sessor of a son and heir . . . named after his father, and headed for Notr» Dame." 
I Personals \ 
* ; c-
Following, under the various Class headings, are listed those fortunate in­dividual members back for the 1930 Commencement, as listed in the Regis­ter of the Alumni Office. Unfortu­nately, the Office is confident that some of those returning failed to register. However, note especially the recoi-d-breaking list of members of the Class of '25, back for their 5-Year Reunion! Will the Class of '26 pay special attention! 
1875 Prank J. Weisenburger, Chicago, 111. 
1880 
Samuel S. Perley, South Bend, Ind. 
Francis X. Wall, Louisville, Ky. 
Dr. J. B. Berteling, South Bend, Ind. 
1881 
Arthur P. Perley, South Bend, Ind. 
1883 
The following is an address at a dinner to ROBERT M. ANDERSON, 'S3, retiring member of the Stevens Institute Faculty Given by the fac­ulty and trustees at the Hotel Astor, New York, May 28, 1930: 
Mr. Toastmaster, Honored Guests, and Friends:— 
I well remember during my student days at Stevens the genial and pop­ular "Bobby" who used to help us out when we didn't want to expose our ignorance to "Bobby's" immediate superior who was then affectionately known as "Jakj-." Most of the teach­ing staff of today would be more cer­tain of my reference if I were to say "Andy." When he left Stevens in 1S9S to go away down in Texas to drill" deep holes in the ground for air­lift pumping apparatus the students felt that a real friend and earnest helper had departed. I can well re­member, when the nature of the work he was going to do was described, how interesting and romantic it seemed. I could picture him drilling holes in the earth as deep as Texas was far off. When he returned to Stevens fifteen years later to fill a gap under unusual and trying circum­stances, he brought back a ripened experience to his old department and unselfishly carried on under well de­ser\'ed broadening responsibilities in a quiet, thorough, conscientious and genial manner that secured for him the friendly esteem of his colleagues. 
Because he was always quiet and unobtrusive, and because even the older faculty was also busy attending its own affairs there was never much time to spend looking into the lives and true characters of conferees, ex­cept as expressed at faculty meetings —Because of this it became necessary for me to scurry around and find those things that we all ought to know so that in saying our farewells we may do so with the fullest knowl­edge that we have been living with men of even higher character and of more distinguished lineage than they themselves have set before us. In my search for material I have had oc­casion to bless the editors of the Links in which biographies have been published and also the editor of the Morton Memorial Volume—the latter person being a young man whom I knew very well in my younger days! 
Robert Marshall Anderson takes his middle name from Chief Justice John Marshall, two generations ahead on the paternal side, and his family name from settlers who came from England and Scotland to Virginia in 1650. Also from the paternal side he carries the strain of General George Rogers Clark who took Ft. Vincennes, Ind. in 1779. His grand­father was a Colonel in the Revolu­tion and" was surveyor general of mil­itary lands in 1795. Robert was born in Circleville, 0., in 1862, graduated from Notre Dame with B.S. in 1883, and from Stevens with the degree of 
M.E. in 1887. The next two years he worked for a torsion balance com­pany in Jersey City under the direc­tion of William Kent a Stevens grad­uate of the Class of '76 w^ho later be­came a distinguished engineer and author. He returned to Stevens in 1889 to assist Professor Denton in re­search and development work in the Department of Tests in ivhich he en­
gaged in many of the leading engi­neering developments of the time in­cluding new types of power plants for harbor and ocean vessels, the first imported Diesel engine and the first Curtiss steam turbine. In 1891 he be­came instructor in the Department of Experimental Mechanics and a year later was appointed Assistant Pro­fessor of Applied Mathematics. Up­on the death of Professor Mayer he at..';isted in the engineering physics laboratory for one year 1897-1S9S, when he left to become a member of the firm of Anderson and Murphy, contracting engineers, serving notably as engineering architect for the well known factory of the Weston In­strument Co., at Waverly, N. J. and the power house of the Newport Nav­al Training Station. In 1901 he be­came vice-president and secretary of the Bacon Air-Lift Co., hydraulic en­gineers, which firm later reorganizeil as the Hudson Engineering and Con­tracting Company of which he was treasurer. This company's operations e.Ktended from Mexico to Canada, one of them being the construction of Carnegie Lake at Princeton. We ai-e further impressed with the wide range of his engineering experience when we note his later associations with the engineering force of the Standard -Aircraft Corporation in the construc­tion of Curtiss flying boats, De-Haviland planes and the Handley Page and Caproni bombei-s. 
In 1913 the Chair of Engineering Practice, which had been founded years before to make a place for the noted American engineer, Coleman Sellers, and which had been occupied later by Dr. Denton, was vacated be­cause of the illness of Dr. Denton. It was then that the eyes of the admin­istration were turned to Robert M. .4nderson, who because of his earlier nine years of teaching in three dif­ferent departmenst at Stevens and because of his fifteen years covering a wide range of outside engineering experience, was admirably qualified to continue the high character of work demanded of the Department of Engineering Practice. When Fred­erick L. Pryor resigned, as head of the Department of Mechanical Engi­neering in 1919 the Institute again looked to Robert M. Anderson as a man specially qualified to head that work also and he was put in charge of both, Departments each retaining its characteristic topics. 
Even with this brief recoitl, the splendid character of Prof, Anderson shows through unmistakably—always ready to help and always found mov­

NOTICE DAME SPII2IT 
REFLECTED IN RESPONSES TO 


THE LIVING ENDOWMENT 
From a Younser Insurance Alumnus: 
DEAR JIM: 
I have been threatening to write this letter to you since our talk in Washington, but I had hoped to be able to get out for Commencement. This, however, is now impossible. 
Last evening in going over some statistics on the value of an education, I was astounded to find that when the value of the capital assets that stu­dents use in acquiring an education are considered, the student pays only about 23Jf of the actual cost of his education. 
If we delete the capital represented in equipment, etc., the actual cost the student pays is about one-third the total expense. The balance, of course, is contributed by some institution or some individual and represents the permanent endowment of the College or University. 
Further investigations show that the avei-age college education is sup­posed to be worth about $30,000, but the most recent study under the di­rection of Everett W. Lord, Dean of Boston University, reveals that the college man earns $72,000 more than the high school gi-aduate and if this can be attributed to the education that he pays for only in part, then cer­tainly the alumnus has a definite obli­gation toward his University. 
In order to partially defray this obligation I am sending you a sub­scription of $100, payable partially now and the balance October 1st. My alumni dues of $5.00 is added to the enclosed check for $30.00. 
You may consider this as the mini­mum amount that I shall pay each year, and I shall make arrangements so that this shall be perpetuated. 
OTHERS ARE DOING WHAT THEY CAN: 

One has pledged  ^SoOO  
Seventeen have pledged  100  
Nine have pledged  50  
One has pledged  40  
Two  have  pledged  30  
Five have pledged  25  
Fifteen  have pledged  20  
Two have pledged  15  
Eighteen have pledged  10  
Thirty-six  have pledged  5  
One has pledged  2  
Two have pledged  1  

One hundred and nine members have pledged $3,569! 
Can't you see the possibilities of five thousand members? 
From an Honorary Alumnus: 
While I am not possessed of much goods of the world—du bien, as the French call it—I could not turn a deaf ear to beautiful Notre Dame where the torch of scholar­ship and high emprise have been ever held up. I only wish this ten dollars were a hundred. Notre Dame would be deserving of it. 
From an .-Vdvertising Alumnus: 
Dear Jim: Here's my Living Endowment pledge. It does not represent what I want to do, only what I feel I can do this year. Expect to be down for Commencement. 
From a Law Alumnus: Gentlemen: 
While the attached card is only for $20.00 (twenty dollars) a year and $5.00 (five dollai-s) for membership, I hope to increase that amount later on. I firmly believe in the living en­dowment method of helping Notre Dame and hope it will be a success. 
From a Younger Jledical Alumnus: My dear Jim: Enclosed is my pledge for $100 and my method of paying. I feel this should be done in a way that is easiest and for that reason I am making my payments monthly. I think this is an e.Kcellent plan and I believe every alumnus should contribute something eveiy month for Notre Dame, even though it might be only twenty-five cent-s. I shall continue paying this amount until such time as my fortunes change. If they improve so will my pledge—if not, it is too bad for the pledge. Best wishes for your plans. Enclosed is my check for alumni dues for 19.31. 
From a Banker Alumnus: My dear Jim: 
Enclosed herewith find my check for $105.00, $100.00 being my first an­nual contribution to the Living En­dowment Fund and $5.00 being in payment of my Alumni dues. 
You cannot realize how much I appreciate seeing this matter under way. 
Kindest regards and best wishes for success in all your endeavors. 
From a '28 Real Estate Alumnus: Dear Jim: 
Am enclosing a check for $25—$20 of which is for our Living Endowment Fund and the other $5 for one year's dues in-the Alumni Association. I wish I were able to add a couple of zeros to the $25, but as many other alumni have discovered, I also have found out that you don't get the $10,000 per the first couple of years you are bat­tling the world. 
ing onward and upward as a result of his earnest, painstaking and able efforts. With all his devoted sen-ice he has found time through all the years to investigate, originate and to write a number of papers, besides be­ing active in engineering and other societies. He is, or has been, a mem­ber of the American Society of Me­chanical Engineers, the American So­ciety of Refrigerating Engineers, the Society of Automotive Engineers, the National Safety Council and the American Water Works Association. He sen-ed as Chairman of the Joint Committee of the A. S. M. E. and 
A. S. R. E. on the Refrigeration Machinery Code; and also on the 
S. -A.. E. Research Division of the Standards Committee, and on the Committee on Engineering Sniybols. He is also a member of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity and the Catholic Club in both of which I learn that he has always shown an active and helpful hand. He is also a member of the Sons of the American Revolu­tion. He has ser\ed as president of the Alumni Association of Stevens, and has always taken an active in­terest in the Alumni gatherings of the University of Notre Dame where again, I learn, he has endeared him­self with those with .whom he has come in contact. We cannot close our remarks on Professor Anderson without recording the high commen­dation he has received from Stevens students for the very complete ar­rangements he has made for the highly successful extended Inspection Trips he has conducted with the Seniors for a number of years past. 
He has given generously of his class time and his presonal time in developing and carrj-ing on the work of the employment bureau of the col­lege. Many of the men of the grad­uating classes, and of the alumni have found fitting places in life through his experienced counsel. His work in brining together the many neglected historical treasures that had accumu­lated at the college during the years, and his keen interest in securing ob­jects of historical interest connected with Stevens men, followed by an or­derly assembly of all these objects with suitable inscriptions, to form the Museum will stand as an enduring monument to Professor Anderson. 
All of the faculty and teaching staff join in wishing him all possible health and happiness in the new home he is building in Circleville, 0., to be ready for his occupancy next fall. We regret exceedingly that Circleville is so far from Hoboken. 
1886 
Alichael 0. Bums, 338 S. Second St., Hamilton, Ohio. Rev. B. J. ni, C.S.C., Notre Dame,Ind. 
1888 
John L. Heineman, Connersville, Ind. Very Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C. Notre Dame, Ind. 
J. L. Heineman, Connersville, Ind. 
1891 John L. Herman, South Bend, Ind. 
1892 
D. M. Shively, South Bend, Ind. 
1893 Michael Donohue, South Bend, Ind. 
E. J. Maurus, Notre Dame, Ind. George L. O'Brien, South Bend, Ind. 
1894 
Hugh A. O'Donnell, The New York Times, New York City. Dr. Frank J. Powers, South Bend, Ind. 
1895 
Eustace CuUinan, Sr., 860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. Martin J. Schnur, Goshen, Ind. 
1897 
Rev. John JlacNamara, 16 Elm St., Garden City, L. I., N. Y. Rev. John A. McNamara, Garden City, L.I., New York. Joseph V. Sullivan, Chicago, 111. 
1898 
F. Henry Wurzer, 1632 Buhl Bldg, 
Detroit, Slichigan. Frank E. Hering, South Bend, Ind. 
F. Henry Wurzer, Detroit, Mich. 
1899 
Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson 
Bldg., Peoria, Illinois. Dr. J. F. Duane, Peoria, HI. Wm. N. Bergan, South Bend, Ind. 
M. X. Neville, Lafayette, Ind. 
Rev. Thos. A. Steiner, C.S.C. Notre Dame, Ind. 
1900 
Francis O'Shaughnessy, 10 S. La Salle St., Chicago, Illinois. Hon. J. W. Eggeman, Ft. Wayne, Ind. Francis O'Shaughnessy, Chicago,"" 111. 
1901 
W. A. Mclnerny, South Bend, Ind. 
1902 
Peter P. McElligott, 320 W. 23rd St, New York City. 
C. C. Mitchell, Chicago, 111. 
Frank F, Duquette, Three Rivers, Mich. 
1903 
Francis P. Burke, 904 Trust Co. Bldg, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Robert E. Lynch, Green Bay, Wis. Alexis Coquillard, South Bend, Ind. 
H. V. Crumley, Cincinnati, Ohio. George Maj-pole, Chicago, III. 
1904 
Robert Proctor, Monger Bldg., 
Elkhart, Ind. Byron V. Kanaley, Chicago, 111. Robert E. Proctor, Elkhart, Ind. Francis X. Ackerman, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
1905 
Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. La Salle St, Chicago, Illinois. Daniel J. O'Connor, Chicago, 111. 
E. F. Gruber, Frankfort, Ind. Daniel L. Murphy, Odell, 111. 
B. F. Johnson, Odell, 111. Leo Murphy, Odell, 111. 
R. J. Jamieson, Chicago, 111. Wm. D. Jamieson, Chicago, HI. 
1906 
Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen Bldg, Spokane, Wash. Daniel C. Madden, Chicago, 111. 
J. W. Mclnemey, South Bend, Ind. Rev. Charies L. Doremus, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Ray J. Daschbach, Van Nuys, Calif. Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. John F. O'Brien, Chicago, 111. 
1907 
T. Paul McGannon, 36 W. 44th St, New York City. Very Rev. James W. Donahue, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. Wm. Molony, C.S.C. J^otre Dame, Ind. 
Rev. Dominick Cannon, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1908 
Frank X. Cull, Bulkley Bldg, Cleveland, Ohio. JI. J. St. George, Chicago, 111. 
1909 
E. P. Cleary, P. 0. Box 356, 
Momence, Illinois. John V. Diener, Green Bay, Wis. Paul R. Martin, Chicago, 111. Rev. Richard J. Collentine, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
E. P. Cleary, Momence, 111. 
1910 
Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 527 Beall Ave, Wooster, Ohio. 
M. Harry Miller, Cleveland, Ohio. Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. M. L. Moriarty, Wooster, Ohio. Claude -A.. Sorg, Middletown, Ohio. 
1911 
Fred L. Steers, 1666 First Natl. Bank Bids, Chicago, Illinois. Pedro A. de Landero, South Bend, Ind. Edward L. Figel, Chicago, HI. 

W. L. Benitz, South Bend, Ind. Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Fred L. Steers, Chicago, III. Rev. Francis, Wenninger, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Justin J. Molony, Crawfordsville, Ind. 
J. H. Lawton, South Bend, Ind. 
1912 Edmund H. Savord, Box 135, Sandusky, Ohio. 

Jay L. Lee, Buffalo, N. Y. 
F. L. Mendez, South Bend, Ind. Forest Fletcher, Lexington, Va. 
W. J. Parish, Momence, 111. Leo J. Condon, Pana, 111. John W. Costello, Chicago, 111. Hugh Daly, Chicago, 111. George Hagerty, South Bend, Ind. Walter Duncan, LaSalle, 111. 
1913 James R. Devilt, 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
Clyde E. Broussard, Beaumont, Tex. Rev. John. C. Kelly, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1914 Frank H. Hayes, Union Bank of 
Chicago, Chicago, HI. Charles Dorais, Detroit, Mich. Walter L. Clements, South Bend, Ind. Frank Hayes, Chicago, 111. Knute K. Rockne, South Bend, Ind. John Meagher, Austin, Texas. 
B" 
1915 James E. Sanford, 8212 Kenwood Ave., Chicago, HI. 
Joseph Pliska, Chicago, 111. 
K. Malkowski, South Bend, Ind. 
V. C. Scully, Chicago,,111. James E. Sanford, Chicago, HI. Rt. Rev. John Francis Noll, D.D., 
Fort Wayne, Ind. 
1916 

T. P. Galvin, 708 First Trust Bldg, Hammond, Indiana. 
Rev. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Grover Miller, Racine, Wis. Thomas A. McLaughlin, 
Detroit, Mich. 
E. H. Sommerer, South Bend, Ind. 
J. A. McCarthy, Whiting, Ind. 
T. P. Galvin, Hammond, Ind. Joseph Kovacs, South Bend, Ind. -A.. F. Fries, Peru, Ind. Dr. E. C Ryan, Chicago, HI. Joseph J. McCaffrey, South Bend, Ind. 
1917 

John U. Riley, 244 Washington St, 
Boston, Massachusetts. John E. Cassidy, Peoria, 111. Howard Parker, Sacramento, Calif. Bernard Voll, South Bend, Ind. Paul Fogarty, Chicago, 111. Daniel E. Hilgartner, Jr., 
Chicago, 111. 
Rev.M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
0. J. Dorwin, Lawrenceville, 111. Rev. Wm. McNamara, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. Michael Early, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Charles W. Bachman, Gainesville, Fla. 
R. J. Graham, Chicago, HI. 
H. C. Baughan, Dayton, Ohio. Raymond A. Schaub, South Bend, Ind. 
D. C. Curtis, Chicago, HI. 
V. Vaughan, Lafayette, Ind. 
J. (Slim) Walsh, Chicago, HI. 
1918 John A. Lemmer, 1110 Eighth Ave, Escanaba, Michigan. 
Rev. George L. Holderith, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Wm. J. Andres, South Bend, Ind. Francis J. Hurley, 
Woodstock, Chicago, HI. 
L. A. Glascott, Michigan City, Ind. John M. Raab, Mishawaka, Ind. 
1919 Clarence Bader, 630 Pierce St, Gary, Indiana. 
Arthur C Weinrich, Chicago, HI. Frank R. Lockard, Toledo, Ohio. Andrew McDonough, Plainfield, N. J. 
L. V. Harmon, South Bend, Ind. 
..Q 

ST. JOSEPH MINERAL BATHS 
Conducted by 

The Sisters of Charity 
Mount Clemens, Mich, 

Here is a place for Notre Dame alumni and their friends to come for rest and relaxation, to recuperate and build up health and strength. It is equally good for those who are well and those who are not so well. 
It combines the best features of a sanitarium, a homelike hotel, and the advantages of the famous mineral baths. It is enjoyable all the year around. Once a patron you will always return. 
For information and rates apply to 
ST. JOSEPH MINERAL BATHS 
MOUNT CLEMENS, MICHIGAN 
QllllMMII MItllllllllllll 
••13 

Timothy Quinlan, Chicago, 111. Martin W. Lammers, Indianapolis, Ind. 
J. W. Hosking, Waukegan, 111. Paul Fenlon, Notre Dame, Ind. 
1920 
Leo B. Ward, 1012 Black BIdg, 

Los Angeles, Calif. Harry Richwine, South Bend,Ind. Paul R. Conaghan, Chicago, III. 
A. C. Ryan, Detroit, Mich. 
H. M. McCuUough, Davenport, Iowa. 
D. J. Patterson, South Bend, Ind. Rev. Leo Ward, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Frank Farrington, South Bend, Ind. Glen Carberry, Lansing, Mich. James H. Brennan, Chicago, III. Walter R. Sliller, Cleveland, Ohio. Sherwood Dixon, Dixon, 111. Edward DeGree, Detroit, Mich. Edward Doran, South Bend, Ind. Edward P. Madigan, St. Mary's Calif. 
1921 
AHen J. Cusick, 530 Grant St., 

Denver, Colorado, Earl S. Dicken.s, 
South Bend, Ind. & Detroit, Mich. Joseph Sanford, Muskegon, Mich. Dan W. Duffy, Cleveland, Ohio. -A^l Slaggert, Detroit, Mich. CallLx C. Miller, South Bend, Ind. 
D. J. Carr, Seton Hill, Pa. Walter A. Sweeney, South Bend, In<l. 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., 

Rochester, N. Y. Clete L>Tich, Meiiden, Conn. George Heneghan, South Bend, Ind. Thomas S. McCabe, Chicago, III. Joseph Farley, Chicago, 111. Gerald Ashe, Rochester, N. Y. Earl F. Walsh, Des Moines, Iowa. 
J. S. Foren, Detroit, Mich. John T. Higgins, Detroit, Mich. 
J. R. McCabe, Chicago, III. 
J. V. Jones, Rochester, N. Y. Walter L. Shilts, South Bend, Ind. Vincent J. Hanrahan, Buffalo, N. Y. Aaron Huguenard, South Bend, Ind. 
H. W. Anderson, South Bend, Ind. Gerald C. Brubaker, Elkhart, Ind. 
J. F. Dixon, Rockford, 111. Bernard J. McCaffrey, 
South Bend, Ind. Cyril B. Fites, BerwiTi, Chicago, HI. Paul V. Paden, South Bend, Ind. Ed. Gottrj', Chicago, III. Rev. George, Fischer, C.S.C. 
South Bend, Ind. 

Again the class of '22 was much in eWdence at Commencement. Three of Chicago's leading citizens — JOE FARLEY, ED GOTTRY and SPEN­CER McCABE were present. South Bend fui-nished FR. GEORGE 
Local Alumni Club Meetings 
Send Notice of Meetings of Clubs Not Listed to Alumni Secretary, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
CLEVELAND: Mondays—year round luncheon meetings—^the AUerton NEW YORK CITY: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—Fraternity Club, 22 East 38th Street. CHICAGO: Fridays, 12:00—luncheon meetings—^Ivory Room, Mandel's. DETROIT: Thursdays—luncheon meetings—12:30—Frontenac Inn, 42 Monroe Avenue. PITTSBURGH: Thursdays—12:15—Gimbers Dining Room, 6th Avenue and Smithiield Street. LOS ANGELES: Wednesdays—luncheon—12:15—University Club. CINCINNATI: First and third Tuesdays of each month—12:15 noon-Broadway Hotel. NEW JERSEY: Monthly meeting—7:30 p. m.—First Monday—New­ark Athletic Club. INTER-MOUNTAIN: Monthly luncheon—First Tuesday—University Club, Salt Lake City, Utah. KENTUCKY: Generally the second Tuesday of each month—different locations. Call H. R. Dempf, 400 M. E. Gaylor BIdg., Louisville. WABASH VALLEY: Four times yearly-January, April, October, December—^Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, Indiana. Call H. R. Kamp, 1207 WeUs Street. ST. JOSEPH VALLEY: Monthly luncheon meeting—Last Monday. 
Call Dudley Shively, Associates BIdg., South Bend. DES MOINES: Monthly meeting—no regular date. Call Carleton Beh. JOLIET: Monthly meeting—First Tuesday. Call Edward King, 301 
Ruby Street, for details. NORTHERN CALIFORNIA: Monthly luncheon—first Tuesday—Clift Hotel, San Francisco. FORT WAYNE: Monthly dinner—no definite date. Call John W. Eggeman, president, or Thomas McKieman, secretary. ROCHESTER: First and third Wednesdays—12:15—Chamber of Com­merce Piivate Dining Room. SYRACUSE: Monthly luncheon—second Wednesday, 12:15—Schraft's. 
FISCHER, HUNK ANDEKSON and BERNIE McCAFFERY. The City of Rocltford, 111., had the fluent JERRY DIXON as its spokesman. From Detroit came the ever smiling JACK HIGGINS. EARL WALSH of Des Moines was on deck. Direct from the provinces came CLETE LYNCH in his galloping chariot. JAMES V. JONES and wife of Rochester, N. Y., were present, and so was the writer. 
One of the main topics of discus­sion at Commencement was the fast moving rumor that STEVE CAE­MODY is to be married in early Sep­tember. Without positive evidence, we refuse to disclose the identity of the alleged bride-to-be. Jerry Dixon, who is acting as chief advisor for Steve, has already selected the best man and also an imposing h'st of al­ternates. But let us hear from Steve himself on the subject. What do you say, Steve? 
The Whimsical Trio, composed of AL SLAGGERT, ED GOTTRY and the masked tenor, furnished the musi­cal entertainment at the Oliver Hotel on the Friday preceding Commence­ment, the occasion being a little in­formal get-together of the men of '22 who had put in an appearance up to that time. The Trio did fair work, 
Ef 
but their efforts, although well in­tended, were not entirely satisfying and rumbles of dissatisfaction among the listeners attained some volume at times. 
SPENCER JIcCABE was accom­panied by his wife. 
Earl Walsh is rather optimistic about the crop outlook this year. He says there is plenty of corn in Iowa. Earl looks fine. 
"Hunk" Anderson is pleased to be back at Notre Dame. "Hunk" has plenty of work ahead of him for he must build an entire new football line for the coming season. 
The writer of these lines established a new record for the golf course at the University. In a threesome with Joe Farley and Spencer McCabe the writer negotiated the course in more strokes than the combined score of his opponents, and thus leaves behind a record that should stand for some time. 
In naming the pi-ominent Chicago­ans in attendance we owe JIM Mc-CABE an apology. Jim was very much present. 
Lost in the vicinity of South Bend, one brown felt Stetson hat, size seven. Finder please return same to this de­partment as the owner is still going bareheaded. 
ART VALLEZ and JOHN PAUL CULLEN are now in France. Art is the special representative of an American chemical firm. J. P. is merely on a pleasure jaunt. 
WILD BILL HASKINS is now liv­ing in New Haven, Conn. He is be­coming very portly, according to tes­timony of eye witnesses. Bill is with 
S. W. Straus & Co. 
GENE KENNEDY received a very painful eye injury recently while en­gaged in a game of squash at the Los Angeles Athletic Club. Gene was laid up for a couple of weeks. 
From the society columns of the Chicago newspapers we learn that CHUCK FOLEY spent some few days in Chicago during April. Chuck is now associated with DUKE HODLER in the practice of law. They are lo­cated in Bums, Oregon. 
1923 Paul Castner, 805 N. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 
Frank Wallace, New York City. 
W. J. Furey, South Bend, Ind. 
Rev. Raymond March, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. 
E. J. Peyton, South Bend, Ind. 
T. G. Randall, Flint, Mich. Wilfred J. Riley, Cincinnati, Ohio. John M. Montague, Chicago, 111. 
THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND. OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 
Designers of the New Notre Dame Stadium 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-six Stadiums and A thletic Fields Fourteen Baseball Parks Five Fair Qround Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
QlMMMK tlllllllltltlllll • •••Dllllllllllll itl*llll)lll)*Hllltlt*ltlltt*llliitl(IHtllllltlMIHIHIllllllll 
..a 

Thomas F. l<ee & Co. 
Fncorporaled 63 Wall Street, New York 
Investment Securities 
Sponsors of 
Worth Aiiierieaii Trust 8hai*es 
The lar^^cst fixed trust in'America 
Inquiries Invited 
R015EKT A. HAMILTOA' '28 
L. P. Rieder, South Bend, Ind. Rev. J. M. Brannigan, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Frank T. Fitzsimmons, Chicago, 111. John Melvin Rohrbach, 
Crown Point, Ind. 
R. J. Nash, Chicago, HI. John E. Flynn, Cleveland, Ohio. 
W. E. Shea, Daj'ton, Ohio. 
A. J. Lockwood, Waukegan, 111. 
A. J. Diedrich, South Bend, Ind. . Frank J. Galvin, Hammond, Ind. Walter L Rauh, South Bend, Ind. Lewis J. Murphy, South Bend, Ind. 
A. M. Jackson, South Bend, Ind. George J. Wack, South Bend, Ind. Louis V. Bruggner, South Bend, Ind. Joseph N. Nyikos, South Bend, Ind. Edw.'P. Kreimer, South Bend, Ind. 

J. Daniel Culhane, Chicago, 111. Paul Castner, South Bend, Ind. John J. Reddington, Anderson, Ind. 
1924 
James F. Hayes, 358 Fifth Ave., 

New York City. Levi A. Geniesse, Green Bay, Wis. Joseph Colman Ryan, Chicago, HI. Harold L. Londo, Green Bay, Wis. Rev. Thomas Kelly, CS.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Robert B. Riordan, Notre Dame, Ind. Albert D. Castdlini, Cincinnati, Ohio. T,.E. Gordon, Chicago, HI. Eugene Oberst, Lexington, Va. 
Eev. Henry Bolger, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. James R. Meehan, Erie, Pa. 
C. O. Molz, Detroit, Mich. Norman Feltes, Chicago, III. Hugh Magevney, Jr., Memphis, Tenn. John N. Stanton, Gary, Ind-. John J. Dore, Cleveland, Ohio. 
H. B. Stillman, Birmingham, Mich. 
L. C. Lujan, Chicago, HI. 
J. Raymond Barrett, Chicago, III. Raymond J. Lang, Mishawaka, Ind. Robert N. Rink, Indianapolis, Ind. 
J. D. Kevillf Chicago, HI. 
1925 John W. Scallan, Pnllman Co., 79 W. Adams St., Chicago, lU. 
Leo Bpettinger, Hamilton, Ohio. George E. Ludwig, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
E. G. Byrnes, Pittsburgh, Pa. Gilbert E. Uhl, South Bend, Ind. Frank A. Milbauer, Newark, N. J. Raymond C. Cunningham, 
Toledo, Ohio. Rev. Thomas T. McEvoy, C.S.C, 

Notre Dame, Ind. Fred D. Uhl, Detroit, Mich. Wilbur Eaton, Helena, Mont. John H. A. Whitman, 
Notre Dame, Ind. John R. Melley, Mahoney City, Pa. Paul Hoeffler, Buffalo, N. Y. 
Charles E. Doyle & Co. 
Investment Securities 
CHASE NATIONAL BAKK BUILDING Tn-ENTY PINE STREET NE W YORK CITY 
i® 
HAERY J. CULLEN, '23 
June, 1930 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
C. M. Mouch, Sandusky, Ohio. Edward F. Cuddihy, Flint, Mich. Paul Dooley, Detroit, Mich. Wm. J. Neville, BataWa, N. Y. Clarence Bunce, LaPorte, Ind. John D. Mahon, Superior, Wis. John W. HiUenbranil, Batesville, Ind. Paul Roniweber, Batesville, Ind. 
H. C. Wurzer, Detroit, Mich. Henry "Spike" Mc.Adams, 
Cleveland, Ohio. Wm. C. Hurley, Saginaw, Mich. Richard C. App, Cincinnati, Ohio. Don Miller, Cleveland, Ohio. 
W. R. Bell, Rochester, N. Y. John W. Scallan, Chicago, HI. George Laughlin, Chicago, III. Wm. J. Cerney, Chapel Hill, N. C. Adam WaKsh, New Haven, Conn. Gerald Holland, South Bend, Ind. George B. Sheehe, Detroit, Mich. Gilbert Schaefer, Detroit, Jlich. Joseph Hogan, South Bend, Ind. Edward .Ahlering', Hammond, Ind. Willard Jones, Di.Non, 111. Russell H. Arndt, Mi.shawaka, Ind. Robert Dixon, Dixon, HI. Karl J. Connell, iilinneapolis, IMinn. Edmund Luther, South Bend, Ind. Paul Sagstetter, South Bend, Ind. Wm. Voor, South Bend, Ind. John P. Hurley, Toledo, Ohio. Vincent Schuh, Mt. Clemens, Mich. Jack Courtney, Chicago, HI. Norbert Clancy, Detroit, Mich. James Crowley, Lansing, Mich. Ed Lyons, Lansing, Mich. 
M. A. Brule, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
M. J. Adrian, Plea.santville, N. Y. Daniel J. O'Neil, New York City. Thomas J. Barry, Chicago, 111. Wm. J. Bossingham, Chicago, HI. Ray DeCourcey, Chicago, 111. Stephen C. Corboy, Chicago, III. 
R. F. Heger, ViVncennes, Ind. Clias. C. Collins, Chicago, III. Rex Enright, Rockford, III. Dan Laniont, Chicago, III. Charles M. Smith, Waukegan, HI. 
L. J. Dorschel, Green Bay, Wis. Gerald W. Miller, Cleveland, Ohio. Wm. H. Braunsdorf, South Bend, Ind. Frank Howland, Streator, III. 
E. F. O'Toole, Chicago, 111. 
L. J. Powers, Chicago, 111. Robert K. Gordon, Ft. Wayne, Ind. Frank X. Naughton, Cleveland, Ohio. Wayne R. Cox, South Bend, Ind. Frank Steel, Akron, Ohio. 
C. L. Baumgartner, South Bend, Ind. 
E. A. Polhau.% Detroit, Mich. 
V. P. Fagan, Chicago, 111. 
A. P. Hyland, Decatur, Ind. 
J. Leo Grace, Kokonio, Ind. Raymond J. Sobat.=ki, 
Wilmington, Del. Clarence Har<ling, South Beml, Ind. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

BUSINESS and PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY 
SOUTH BEND, IND. 
POLAR ICE & FUEL COMPANY 
John (Ike) Voedisch, '2 7 Ass'f Manager 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
Established 1911 
COOPER-KANALEY and CO. 
FiKST MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS 120 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Tel. Franklin 0353. 

I IM Illtlllllllllllll 
C. J. Kai.<;er, South Bend, Ind. 
D. L. Murphy, Dixon, 111. Gilbert J. Coty, South Bend, Ind. 
A. J. Porta, South Bend, Ind. Thos. F. O'Connor, Indianapolis, Ind. Harold Wat.son, Milwaukee, Wi.s. Bernaril Finnigan, Chicago, 111. Elmer Layden, Pittsburgh, Pa. Harry Stuhldreher, Villa Nova, Pa. 
F. K. McFadden, Chicago, HI. 
J. A. Noppenbergei-, Peoria, III. Abner F. -A^ley, Chicago, 111. James E. .Armstrong, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
1926 

Gerald W. Hayes, Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co, Evanston, HI. 
C. A. LaFollette, Chicago, III. 
John A. Gallagher, Cleveland Hgts., Ohio. 
E. J. JIandeville, Chicago, 111. Wm. R. Barr, Chalmers, Ind. 
J. Arthur Haley, South Bend, Ind. James Kelleghan, Chicago, III. 
J. C. Bulger, Chicago, 111. Malcolm F. Knaus, Detroit, Mich. Claude E. Johnson, 
Essex Junction, Vt. 
F. J. Miller, Cicero, 111. 
G. V. McDermott, Chicago, HI. Wm. R. Dooley, Hammond, Ind. 
R. D. Welsh, Chicago, 111. Dan Kelly, Jr., South Bend, Ind. 
R. A. Goepfrich, South Bend, Ind. 
J. J. Devereux, Chicago, HI. 
>iMiiirt(i»«iiiitittittitir(((f ((•«•• 
DAYTON, OHIO 
IIIIIIIMHttlMHfltlMHttHfflXttllltiail 
JOSEPH B. MURPHY, 'II 
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW 309-15 Mutual Home BIdg. Dayton, OIuo 
Murphy & Murphy 

•••••iiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiittiiiiiaMiiMtiiiiiiiaiiitiiiiiiiatiaii 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
iiiiaiiMaiitaiiiiMiiiMtiffMiriMfHHttaafKiittittiliiaiiiiaaiMii 
Law Offices 

HAMILTON & KRAMER 
701-3 HUNTINGTON BANK BLDO. 
COLUMBUS, OHIO 

DONALD M. HAMILTON, '12 
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii II I Ill I I II, 
1927 

Ed DeClercq, Secretary 8126 Drexel Blvd, Chicago 
Thomas Madden, Ashtabula, Ohio. Herbert Jones, South Bend, Ind. Edward J. Plynn, Chicago, 111. 
J. D. Curtis, Detroit, Mich. 
A. J. Brinkman, Chicago, 111. John Butler, Cleveland, Ohio. Frank J. Pendergast, Chicago, HI. Prince Slavin, South Bend, Ind. -Albert Nanovic, Cleveland, Ohio. Wm. Coyne, Notre Dame, In<l. Wm. H. McCullough, Detroit, Mich. Robert Hennes, Detroit, Mich. John W. Brennan, Buffalo, N. Y. Paul Butler, South Bend, Ind. Joseph A. Nulty, Plainfield, N. J. John J. Halpin, Chicago, III. Richard L. Halpin, Chicago, 111. Raymond M. Snyder, South Bend, Ind. 
D. L. Campbell, South Bend, Ind. Ernest J. Wilhelm, South Bend, Inil. Francis Moran, South Bend, Ind. 
W. D. Cavanaugh, Dayton, Ohio. Bernard Maloney, South Bend, Ind. X\ Crofoot, South Bend, Ind. Frank Ahearn, South Bend, Ind. Sebastian Berner, South Bend, Ind. W. 0. Brandenburg, Chicago, 111. 
D. A. Fitzgerald, Chicago, 111. 
J. W. Slattery Chicago, HI. John E. Sullivan, Chicago, 111. Bernard Epstein, Chicago, Hi. 
L. M. Swygert, Hammond, Ind. 
Harold Slianafield,-South Bend, liid. 
E. C. WorthinRton, Chicago, III. 
U. J. Bonini, Grand Rapids, Jlich. All)ert L. Doyle, Jlisliawaka, Ind. Al Smith, LaPorte, Ind. Tom Dunn, Cliicajjo, 111. John J. Reid\% Cleveland, Ohio. 
C. J. Rud.Iy, -Aurora, III. 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind., Secretary. 
Henry Hasley, Fort Wayne, Ind. Wni. B. Jone.-;, Notre Dame, Ind. l.ouis Buckley, Notre Dame, Ind. .Andrew J. Boyle, Notre Dame, Ind. Robert M. Ward, .Mar.-^hall, .Mich. Leo J. Schulthei.-', Loui.-;ville, Ky. Jame.« P. Coury, New York City. Ray Lawler, Chicago, 111. JIartin A. Ryan, Buffalo, N. Y. Charle.s "Cliile" Wal.-^h, St. Loui.<, .Mo. Norbert Seiilen.<ticker, 
Chillicothe, Ohio. Jame.s .A. .Mien, Rockford, 111. Janie."; E. Gray, Chicago, 111. Paul Tobin, Elgin, 111. Burton Toepp, South Bend, Ind. John B. Bu.=chemeyer, Louis.ille, Ky. John F. Robin.^^on, Waterbury, Conn. 
E. P. McGuire, Chicago, 111. Geojge Coury, Chicago, 111. Jack Mullen, Chicago, 111. Robert A. Grant, South Bend, Ind. Jo.^eph P. Hilger, Columbus, Ind. Bernard J. Stettler, -Aliiiuippa, Pa. John F. Lar.sen, South Bend, Ind. John Frederick, Saginaw, Jlich. David Kremb.s, Detroit, JHich. Jame.s W. Hayward, South Bend, Ind. 
W. H. Downey, Nile.s, Mich. John J. Wallace, Gary, Ind. David H. Smith, Chicago, 111. Joseph Madden, Fort Wayne, Ind. John J. Wingerter, Newark, N. J. Edward Rafter, Chicago, 111. Wm. Goelitz, Chicago, 111. JMilton J. Wagner, Dearborn, Mich. William Konop, South Bend, Ind. Ray Lusson, Chicago, 111. Vincent P. Ducey, Chicago, 111. 
J. W. Conboy, South Benil, Ind. Laurence Wingerter, 
Wheeling, W. Va. 
R. C. Leahy, Tiffin, Ohio. Robert J. Mohlnian, Lafayette, Ind. John McSorley, Pitt.sburgh, Pa. Edward McKeown, Chicago, 111. 
1929 
Joseph P. McNamara, 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Ind., Secretarj-. 
Henry Watt.s Eiclier, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Paul Bartholomew, South Bend, Ind. Thoma.s J. Lane, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
Jo.seph H. Kraker, Akron, Ohio. 
J. R. Nowery, Shreveport, La. Thoma.s JI. JIcNicholas, Chicago, 111. Joseph S. Sullivan, Chicago, III. John .A. .Molter, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind, Philip Heniming.s, Chicago, 111. Harley McDevitt, Passaic, N. J. John P. O'Neill, Ogden, Utah. John P. Waltz, Massillon, Ohio. Tom S. Lawless, Freeport, 111. 
C. E. JIcDermott, Calumet City, 111. Joseph Lutttman, C.S.C, 
Notre Dame, Ind. Frank O'Brien, Chicago, 111. James P. Lydon, Chicago, 111. 
V. P. Cline, Barberton, Ohio. Paul Bertsch, .Akron, Ohio. Martin J. ConJey, Chicago, III. Jo.seph P. JIcNaniara, 
Indianapolis, Ind, Martin G. Foley, Tairytown, N. Y. Fred J. Wagner, Tiffin, Ohio. 
W. Coughlan, C.S.C, Notre Dame, Ind. -A. Allot, Chicago, III. 
L. 0. Brennel, Zanesville, Ohio. Robert Lane, Santa Clara, Calif. Stephen C Boc.skei, South Bend, Ind. George Dapson, Chicago, III. James Quinn, Gary, Ind. 
W. C Fortier, South Bend, Ind. Fred Miller, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Richard Haugh, Chicago, III. 
Thomas V. Happer, Elkhart, Ind. 
-AI Scherer, Copenhagen, N. V. 
James E. Digan, Logansport, Ind. 
George Beamer, South Bend, Ind. 
Wm. Johnson, East Chicago, Ind. 
J. uastreich, Chicago, 111. Jo.seph Lauber, South Bend, Ind. Pat Green Louisville, Ky. Jerome E. Ouellette, Wadi.son, Maine. C W. Heineman, Connersville, Iml. Joseph E. Whalen, South Bend, Ind. James L. Fitzpatrick, 
North Baltimore, Ohio. Jo.s. C Morrill, Jr., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
A. Walter JIason, Chicago, III. Matthew J, Cullen, Chicago, 111. Wm. Bradshaw, Chicago, III. 
1930 
Bernard W. Conroy. 11 Oil Kenneth .Ave., New Kensington, Pa.. Sec'y. 
Bei-nie will be responsible for filling this column with '30 news ne.xt year. Success of a Class Secretary depends upon the willingness of the Class to Keep him posted. Don't be modest. The fellows are interested in what you and the classmates in your neighbor­hood are doing. IJi-op a letter to Ber­nio once in a while whether you're asked or not. That will make this column a real treat for you every month, from September on. 

Peru Foundry Company Peru, Indiana Manufactui'ers of Tumbling Mill Stars for Gray Iron 
Emery Wheel Dressers Foundries 
Sand Blast Nozzles for Malleable Iron 
Annealing Pots 

I Foundries. 
Miscellaneous White Iron Castings 
A. F. (AL) FRIES, ' 16 
Vice-Pres. & Gen. Mgr. 








