The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 


Zke Notre Dame Alumnus 
Norember-Decamber. 1950 
Vol. 28. No. 6 
lanws E. Annstrrag. '25. Editor JiAn P.' Bnnia. '34. Managing Editor lohn N. CacUer. fr_ 'Vl. Aawdoto Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Ind, under the act of Aug. 24, !912. 
Table of Contents 
UTILITIE S  -.  3  
UNSEE N  ARM Y  4  
ALUMN I  BOAR D  5  
NATURA L  LA W INSTITUT E  6  
JACK  MILES' PROGRESS  ...„  7  
MOTORIZE D  CHAPE L  8  
"B" TEA M TRI P  9  
UNIVERSIT Y  TODA Y  10  
CAMPU S  CALENDA R  .^  11  
ALUMN I  CLUB S  14  
ALUMN I  CLASSES  20  

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS 
FRANCIS WALLACE, '23 „ Monorary President Leo B. WARD, '20 _ J'resiaent REV. VINCENT P. BRENNAN, '32 First Vice-President JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27. Second Vice-President ARTHUR D . CRONIN, JR., '37 Third Vice-President 
DIRECTORS TO 1951 
ARTHUR D . CRONIN, JR.. '37 J632 Buhl Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich. LEO B . WARD, '20 214 Rowan Bldg., Los Angeles 13, Calif. JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27 Jiadio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. REV. VINCENT P. BRENNAN, '32....408 Baldwin Rd., Pittsburgh, 7, Pa. 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 
WILLIAM J. SHERRY, '21 .804 Kennedy Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 7102 Meadow Lane, Chevy Chase 15, Md. 
R. CONROY SCOGOINS, '24 480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDW.ARD J. BECKMAN, '16 .40 South Dr., Plandome, N. Y. 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 
JoH.v Q. ADAMS, '26 158 Lorraine, Upper Montclair, N. J. HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. RICHARD J. NASH, '23...„ 6235 Kenmore, Chicago 23, III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22. 7.379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 


JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '2.=5 Director m„I Secretary 
PICTURE LEGEND: (!) Brother Borromeo, C.S.C, Chief Engineer, pauses to talk uith one of his assistants. (2) Brother Beatus, C.S.C., "puts the heat on" the hoys in Alumni. This control system has saved approximately $61,000 in two years. (3) One of the plant engineers checks a control valve in the Uni­versity's three-mile tunnel si'Stein under the campus. (4) Tliis crane helped Xotrc Dame beat last winters coal shortage. In the backgruuud. the Univer­sity's Diesel "Mothball Fleet." (5) There is at least one attentive member as Brother Borromeo gives instmctiims in pumper f>peratitms to the local fire fighteni. 
The Notre Dante Alumnus 
.Jkt #^. 
'^X^i 





ame Alumnus 
UTILITIES AND THE UNIVERSITY... A brief presentation of the heat-power-water problem of the University of tomorrow 
The University of Notre Dame was almost sixty years of age before its residents came to know the blessings of central heating. The first plant, erected in 1899, would be judged crude and primitive according to present stan­dards; but its designers were so pleased with their creation that a scale model was dispatched to the Paris Exposition of 1900. 
In the summer of 1932 the stack of this plant was brought crashing down to prepare the way for the Students' Infirmary building; the University's pri­vate railroad station was razed at the same time, and for the same purpose. A few months earlier Notre Dame had acquired a new heating plant. 
Again the last word in efiiciency of desigrn and operation, its four huge boil­ers sent steam surging through an elaborate network of tunnels to the far reaches of the campus. There was con­siderable satisfaction in the thought that, Vhile repairs and alterations would have from time to time to be made, the new plant was geared to handle Notre Dame's future expansion program. 

That was ei^teen years ago. In the interval Notre Dame's student body grew from 3,000 to more than 5,000 young men; there was a corresponding increase in the number of priests and lay faculty members. Some twenty-five new buildings were constructed, and steam tunnels were leng^thened. Still, Brother Irenaeus, C.S.C, and after him Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., managed to keep the student body and faculty reasonably comfortable and happy. 
In the course of the years improve­ments and economies were effected. A mobile crane was purchased at second­hand, several thousands of tons of coal were stockpiled, and the student body learned to their dismay that school would keep ouen in spite of frequent and prolonged strikes at the mines. 
One of the Brothers devised a unique syston of lights whereby plant engineers 
November-December, 1950 
would know at all times whether stsam were passing through the giant reducer valves into the various classroom and dormitory buildings. Installation of a central control system which permits the heat to be turned on or oif and tempera­tures regulated in any building on the campus from a central panel in the plant, cut fuel costs approximately $61,­000 in the little more than two years it has been operating. 
The University's water department is 
also operated by steam plant personnel. 
Three deep wells for drinking water and 
one for utility purposes are kept in 
constant operation, supplying the one 
million gallons that Notre Dame re­
quires daily; in summer daily consump­
tion rises to 1,500,000 gallons. 
A pipe line from St. Joseph's Lake feeds water into a separate system of mains for fire protection. Pressure on this system is maintained at seventy-five pounds, but Brother Borromeo, C.S.C, who doubles in brass as chief of the 

r 
I BLltak M£i>A M:!^ HUI^ MlliB MSt^ M£t^ M:!^ M£I^ Ma ^ M±t^ tASt^ Mfl^l 
The UniTeiaity and th* JUmniii 
Association extend to every alum­
} nus, to his {amily. and to oU friends 
oi the University a sincere wish 

f that Christmas will bring to them the grace and blessings oi a i genuine Christmas. tiB>«BWia>Bi«B»ea«B»i»«ewa>«B> 
University's up-to-the-minute fire de­partment—can order pump pressures in­creased to one hundred and twenty-five pounds. 
State officials, who long have looked with disfavor on this three-way system of water supply, recently decreed that the University must convert to a single system whereby potable water shall be used even in the utility and firs pro­tection mains. This will necessitate ex­tensive changes in the existing network of mains, the dropping of another well. 
installation of machinery to remove iron from the drinking water, and erection of a 500,000 gallon water tower, a ne­cessary—but by no means attractive— addition to Notre Dame's skyline. 
A firm of consulting engineers was brought in to sketch out the new water system. And because fifteen to twoity years is considered the normal life span of boilers and other heating equipment without extensive alterations, they were asked to examine our heating needs as well. 

Still a third feature was incorporated in their study. Our plant employees, as though they had not already enough work to do, had long argued that genera­tion of our own electric power would represent a further economy for the University. Waste steam could be util­ized for this purpose, through installa­tion of several stsam turbines; and two diesel generators obtained from the War Assets Administration would serve as stand-by units. 
The University is presently using dee­tricity at the rate of 6,010,000 kilowatt hours annually, and - our demand .will rise tremendously with completion of the new Science Building alone. Compare that with your annual household needs! 
The three-way study was completed. Plans for the new water system were drawn up and approved. The contention of our plant engineers that it would be . more economical to generate our own power than to continue purchasing it, was borne out. The initial cost of con­struction and installation (approximate­ly $600,000) could be written off over a twenty-year period, increased operating expenses absorbed, and the University still would save from ten to fifteen thou­sand dollars a year. Minimal necessary improvements and repairs to the eight­een-year-old heating system were com­puted, and found to be considerable. . 
And then the blow fell! A heating 
(Continued on Page 19) 




The Unseen Army 
Holy Cross Foreign Mission Director Asks Spiritual Adoption of a Priest 
(Father McCauley, Siiperior of the Holy Cross Foreign Missioji Seminary in Washington, D. C, is directing this ap­peal to Alumni for spiritual adoption of his missionary priests. It certainly needs no explanatory notes. The .Aluttini Board of Directors at its October, 1950, meet­ing urged tlie adoption of Father Mc­Cajiley's plan and the editors of the 
ALUMNUS heartily concur.—Editor) 
The UNSEEN ARMY is a fundamen­tal mission project. Its purpose is en­tirely spiritual. The members pay no dues, give no benefits, sell no tickets, and are not solicited for funds. What they do is pray—pray for missionaries. What makes them want to do it is the conviction that the spiritual help we can give missionaries counts a great deal. 
The startling fact that confronts us is that the pagan world is steadily mak­ing greater progress than the Church of Christ. Pagans increase twenty mil­lions a year; Catholics only four millions. Why this tremendous disproportion? Is it because our missionaries fail us? 
Few indeed, would put the whole blame on the missionaries in their hum­ble dwellings in far away lands. For, after all, they are our representatives there, and not all of us have backed them up spiritually as we should. 
The time to do something about it is now. The way to do it is to mobilize. We need to line up our Catholics in a great spiritual army, an UNSEEN ARMY whose mind will be the mind of Christ. 
The plan of the UNSEEN ARMY is borrowed from a Saint. She is St. The­resa of the Child Jesus, the Patroness of the Missions. Because she could not be a missionary herself, St. Theresa—who is also known as The Little Flower— adopted a missionary. Later she adopted two more. It was a spiritual adoption in which she offered her prayers and sacri­fices to aid her missionaries in realizing God's Will that His Kingdom be spread, that souls be brought to Christ. In one of her letters the Little Flower wrote, 
"Beyond all doubt it is by prayer and sacrifice that we can best help our mis­sionaries." 
The unique feature in the plan of the UNSEEN ARMY, as in St. Theresa's, 
By Rev. Vincent McCauley, C.S.C. 
is the personal element. St. Theresa's adopted missionaries were to be, as it were, her very own brothers. 
Perhaps you begin to see how you, too, can imitate the Little Flower's method. It matters little that you live in the world, in yoiir homes, rather than in a convent or monastery. You can still help missionaries as St. Theresa did. We musi realize that there are no priorities on prayers and sacrifices. The best prayers and sacrifices need not be in Re­ligious houses, not necessarily even in Church. We do our jobs from day to day. Difiiculties confront us. We are dis­couraged. All these things make up oiir lives, ordinary things, but things which would please God greatly if only we would offer them like Theresa for His missionaries. 
As it is, we are inveterate spendthrifts. Our lives are laden with treasures. We are a royal race because we are members of Christ. The Catholic Church to which we belong is the Mystical Body of Christ. Because of that close relationship to Christ our good deeds take on the special value which He gives to them. Yet, we scarcely think of the spiritual wealth we could be sharing with our missionaries. 
You remember the blood banks. Until the Red Cross made its appeal we scarce­ly gave a thought to the value our blood might have for others. But as soon as the Red Cross told us of its saving power for those whose own life had been spilled we wanted to share our wealth with those in need. Literally, we opened our veins and gave—not once, but many many times. 
-Our missionaries ask a share in our spiritual blood banks — banks laden with prayers and good works. We must be mindful of the wealth we possess. We must share our spiritual wealth. Prayers and sacrifices—^these must be our great contributions to the divine work entrust­ed to the Mystical Body of Christ, His Church. And what other work has been entrusted to the Church save the divine commission to go into the whole world and preach the Gospel to every creature —^to propagate the Divine Life of Christ. 
You know, then, the wealth you pos­sess. You know you can help. You can give that special help which we ask in the name of the Church and of our mis­sionaries. We ask something of yourself, some of the good deeds, some of your prayers and sacrifices. Like Larry in Omaha or Jimmie in Arlington your gift may consist mostly in offering the long painful hours in a sick bed. Like Charlie in Chicago you may sell insurance and make each call a prayer that goes to help Father Joe over in Bengal. One Notre Dame man is making his job of being a good husband and father the principal source of his spiritual help for a fellow alumnus-missionary Brother. 
The Notre Dame men in Pakistan, in our southern missions,"in other parts of the world want the spiritual support of our fellow Alumni. We urge you to be­come members of the UNSEEN ARMY. Your only obligation is to make your spiritual offering on ONE DAY OF EACH WEEK FOR ONE YEAR FOR A PARTICULAR MISSIONARY. This missionary may, of course, be one of your own choosing. We will, however, gladly assign a missionary to those who request it. 
For a sample of the high regard mis­sionaries have for the UNSEEN ARMY we quote from a recent letter of a vet­eran Bengal missionary: 
"Wc may be the lamps shining in the frightful darkness of heathendom —often battered, stained and broken lamps—but you at home, with the dull routiBe of daily life made priceless by its union with God's Will to save, are the oil without which the lamp is of no value, but with which you and we to­gether can make to shine across the world Jesus Who is the Light of Time and of Eternity." 

UNSEEN ARMY leaflets are avail­able from the Holy Cross Foreign Mis­sion Seminary. 
Any alumnus desiring to spiritually adopt a Missionary Priest may send his intention to: 
Superior, 
Holy Cross Foreign Mission Seminary 
Washington 17, D. C 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Report on Meeting of Alumni Directors Board 
At its October 27-28 meeting the Alumni Board of Directors made sever­al significant recommendations, nomi­nated eight Alumni for the December elections to the Board and met with the University President, Rev. John J. Cav­anaugh, iC.S.C. 
The specific recommendations, directed to all Alumni included: 
1.
 Sponsorship of Father Vincent McCauley's "Hidden Army"—^the spiri­tual adoption of a foreign missionary. Father Vincent McCauley, C.S.C, direc­tor of the Holy Cross Foreign Mission Society states his case on page 8 of this issue. 

2.
 Establishment of a second Notre Dame Communion Sunday, in line with a resolution by the Washington, D. C, Club. Details will be decided after con­sultation with University officials. 

3.
 Visits by Alumni Board members, wherever possible, to local clubs for stim­lation of interest and activity. 

4.
 A suggestion that classes expedite their election of officers through mail ballots. (14 have completed elections.) 

5.
 Continuation of "Man of the Year" Club awards. 


The eight nominees for the board are BERNARD J. BIRD, '28 (Buffalo); FR.4NK J. BLOEMER, JR., 22 (Louis­ville) ; JOSEPH 'F. DEEB, '31 (Gran:l Rapids); EMMETT G. LENIHAN, '15 (Seattle); JOSEPH S. MORRISSEY, '28 (Cincinnati); JOHN N. NEESON, JR., '35 (Philadelphia); WILLIAM C. SCHMITT, '10 (Portland, Ore.), and LUTHER M. (MIKE) SWYGERT, '27 (Hammond, Ind.). 
Ballots for the selection of four new directors are in the mail and should be returned to the Alumni Office by Janu­ary 1, 1951. Retiring Directors are Pres­ident Leo B. Ward, '20; Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, '32; Joseph M. Boland, '27, and Arthur D. Cronin '37. 
A new Club Officers' Manual was sub­mitted to the Board and approved for distribution to clubs. Included was the recommendation that clubs wherever possible appoint club trustees with a view to thus lending stability to club programs and activities. 
Approval for mailing through the Alumni Office the pledge cards for Father Vincent McCauley's "Hidden Army" was granted by the board and resolutions commending the following were adopted: 
MR. I. A. O'SHAUGHNESSY and MR. E. M. MORRIS for their generous benefactions to the University. 
November-December, 1950 
FATHER JOHN M. RYAN, CJS.C. 

Father John M. Ryan, C.S.C, former head of the University's History De­partment and one of the best-known Notre Dame priests, died Dec. 5 in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend. 
He was 69. 
Father Ryan became known to thous­ands of Notre Dame students as the rec­tor-of Lyons and later Walsh halls. He was head of the History Department from 1929 to 1937 and since 1946 had been chaplain of the Community House. 
Ordained in 1909, Father Ryan, a na­tive of Chicago taught in 1909 and 1910 at Holy Cross College, Washington, D. 
C. He began teaching at Notre Dame in 1910. 
MRS. SALLY FISHER, for her bene­faction. 
MRS. JOHN BAUER, "Catholic Moth­er of the Year." Nine of her 14 children are in religious orders, and four sons— two priests and two Brothers—are mem­bers of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
A resolution was addressed to Mrs. Paul Mallon, on the death of her hus­band, an outstanding newspaperman and former director of the Alumni Associa­tion. 

Law Association Meets In New York City 
On Jan. 26 (1951) the Notre Dame Law Association will meet in New York City at a luncheon in Hotel Biltmore to hear District Attorney Miles F. McDon­ald of Kings County, N. Y. 
The luncheon, to be held at 2:30 p. m. is part of the proceedings of the New York Bar Association Convention. James 
G. McGoldrick, '38, is chairman of the event. 


rACULTy 

Professor Wesley C. Bender, head of 
the University's Department of Market­
ing has become the first economist to be 
re-elected to the presidency of the In­
diana Academy of Social Sciences. 
He was president of the Academy in 
1941-42 and was renamed to the position 
last month. 
The Academy includes teachers from every college and university in Indiana and encourages research to promote un­derstanding and cooperation among the . social sciences. Professor- Bender has been a faculty member since 1931 and head of the Department of Marketing 
for five years. 
The American Bar Association has 
named Dean Clarence E. Manion of the 
University Law School to its Special 
Committee to Study Communist Tactics 
and Objectives. The Committee specifi­
cally observes Communist tactics as they 
relate to obstructing court procedure (as 
in the trial of the 11 Communist leaders 
before Federal Judge Harold Medina) 
and law enforcement. 
The committee' was established by spe­
cial resolution of the American Bar As­
sociation and has four other members. 
Austin F. Canfield of Washington, D. C, 
is chairman. 
Dr. William O. Shanahan, professor of 
history p.t the University is in Nice, 
France, this month representing Notre 
Dame at the International Conference of 
Universities. 
The conference is sponsored by the 
United Nations and its aim is to set up 
an in'-ernational organization of "Uni­
versities and institutions of higher learn­
ing." Over 90 schools from 30 countries 
were invited to send delegates and Notre 
Dame is one of three Catholic universi­
ties in this country invited. 
Another University history professor has broken into print—^this time in the "Review of Politics," published quarter­ly at the University. He is Dr. Matthew 
A. Fitzsimons, his work is "Masque of Uncertainty." 
The writing is a study, as Dr. Fitz­simons puts it of "Chamberlain's colos­sal misreading of contemporary politics." It is the result of his first-hand research last summer on-England, made possible by the Notre Dame Committee on Inter­national Relations. 
The Committee on International Rela­tions is partially financed by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. Profes­sor Fitzsimons has been a faculty mem­ber since 1937. 
Fourth Law Institute Held at University Dec. 8-9 
Five eminent lecturers and philoso­phers spoke at the 1950 convocation of the Natural Law Institute at the Uni­versity, held Dec. 8 and 9. 
Central theme for the Fourth Natural Law Institute, sponsored by Mr. Alvin 
A. Gould of Cincinnati was the relation between the Natural Law and the funda­mental human rights. The Institute seeks to restore the philosophy of law to the pre-eminent position it once held in America as evidenced by the doctrines Thomas Jeffei'son wrote into the Decla­ration of Independence and which were over 2,500 years old then. ' 
These doctrines have always been an integral part of legal education at the University since its law teachings be­gan in 1869. The Institute as a founda­tion of the University attempts to do in a broader and more public manner what the University's College of Law has been doing for 80 years. 
George E. Sokolsky, nationally syndi­cated newspaper columnist and a widely respected expert on current affairs was the first speaker on Dec. 8. He is a grad­uate of Columbia School of Journalism and spent a year in Russia during the Bolshevist revolution. He is the author of several books, including "The Amer­ican Way of Life," "Tinderbox of Asia" and "Crisis in the United States." 
His address was titled "The Source of Human Eights." Mr. Sokolsky received an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws at the 1946 June Commencement at the University. 
Hon. Thomas P. Brogan, of Jersey City, former Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court spoke before the institute on "The Natural Law and the Eight to Human Liberty." 
He was appointed Chief Justice in 1933 and reappointed in 1940. Since 1947 he has engaged in private practise in Jersey City, where he was Corporation Counsel for 11 years. 
Mr. Brogan was a member of the 1947 convention which revised the New Jersey state constitution and lectured for two years in the Fordham Law School. 
A federal justice, Hon. Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr., Chief Judge of the U. S. Fifth Circuit closed the Dec. 8 proceed­ings with a lecture, "The Natural Law and the Right to Property." 
Judge Hutcheson is a University of Virginia graduate and began practise of law 50 years ago in Houston, where he was mayor from 1916-18. He was ap­pointed U. S. Circuit Judge for the Southern District of Texas in 1918 and in 1931 was appointed U. S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth District. He served in that capacity until 1948, when he as­sumed his present position. 
The two speakers on Dec. 9 were Dr. Felix Morley, Washington, D. C, and Rev. John C. Ford, S.J., Professor of Moral Theology at Weston College. 
Until this year Dr. Morley had served five years as president and editor of Hu­man Events, Inc. His address was "The Natural Law and the Right to Freedom of Expi-ession." 
Dr. Morley, a native of Haverford, Pa., was enditor of the Washington Post from 1933 to 1940 and previously had been associated with the Baltimore Sun, the Philadelphia Public Ledger and with the Washington Bureau of United Press. He presently is engaged in editorial work in Washington. 
Father Ford, the author of "The Foun­dation of Justice Holmes' Juristic Phi­losophy," and a contributor to Theologi­cal Studies was a professor of Moral Theology at Gregorian University, Rome until 1946. Since his return to the United States he has been professor of Moral Theology at Weston College and profes­sor of ethics at Boston College. 
His address, "The Natural Law and the Right to Pursue Happiness," and the others delivered as part of the pro-

N.D. Law Association At Capital Luncheon 
The Notre Dame Law Association held its annual luncheon as a part of the Proceedings of the American Bar Asso­ciation in Washington on September 20. William B. Jones, LLB., '30, was gen­eral chairman of the affair and was ably assisted by a committee of Notre Dame lawyers in Washington. Approximately seventy-five Notre Dame lawyers were in attendance. 
Guests at the luncheon included Bish­

op McNamara, Auxiliary Bishop of 
Washington. 
Highlight of the affair was the ap­

pearance of Mr. Cody Fowler, President 
Elect of the American Bar Association, 
who was introduced by Judge Stephens, 
Circuit Judge of the District of Colum­
bia Bar. Lawyers from the New Eng­
• land states, the midwest, and the far west were in attendance. Dean Manion and Professor Sullivan represented the University and the Law School. 
ceedings of the Institute will be put into 
pamphlet form soon. 
Ending the proceedings was a panel 

discussion with all five lecturers taking 
part. The discussion was broadcast by 
the Mutual Broadcasting System. 

What's a Party Without the Ladies? 
Doesn't your wife do the decorating for yonr parties? Same way for Cleveland. L. to r, Mrs. Jerry Reidy, Mrs. John Raleigh, Mrs. Flo McCarthy and Mrs. T. Edw. Carey. The ladies set up the trinunings for the Navy game weekend. (Cleveland Plain-Dealer photo.) 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 



Jack Miles '47, Makes Progress 
Hon. James E. Armstrong 
Alumni Office 
University of Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, Indiana. 
DEAR MR. SECRETARY: 
On the assumption that the volume of your incoming mail has decreased since early autumn, I am writing this to keep your postman off relief another day. May it find you and your associates in the finest of health. 
As you are aware, I am in my second year of recovery since losing out in the polio game in September, 1949—a second year which promises to end with at least a partial victory for the home team. Even now I am able to stand with the aid of leg and pelvic braces in a firmly-anchored walker. Sagging abdominal muscles (artificially induced) have been bolstered by a lumbo-sacral belt (or, ignominiously, a corset). Now you know my inner-most secrets. It's not a secret, though, that I firmly believe that I'll walk again, despite whatever odds may be quoted against me. Odds have a way of crumbling before the power of pray­er, and I have special devotion to Our Lady and Father Moreau. 
The good Sisters at St. Joseph's hospi­tal in South Bend will tell you of Father Moreau's role in my case. The sanie day I was brought there from Benton Harbor, Mich., where I was working for the South Bend Tribune, I had to be placed in the iron lung as the paralysis crept up from my legs. Thank God, it stopped at the windpipe, but my con­dition was still perilous. Enter, spirit­ually, the founder of Holy Cross. While I was breathing what should have been my last, one of the Sisters attached to the lung a relic of Father Moreau. The prayers of my family and friends were answered . . . and here am I telling you the details. 
Improvement has been, and still is, gradual but certain. First I had to be weaned away from the respirator: that took more than seven months. Then I spent my summer rebuilding my strength and regaining the remainder of the nearly six stones (84 pounds, avoidupois) I shed during the initial stages of sickness. The process was given impetus by my return home July 22, 1950 — so much of an im­petus, in fact, that I've been on a diet for three months. And my weight has held steady at about 170 since then, five pounds more than my playing weight at Notre Dame (for bridge and euchre— 
November-December, 1950 
for the heavy lifting involved in cribbage I usually trained down to a strapping 160.) Furthermore, I now reach an estimated 77 inches into the sky even without the hair shorn to pave the way for my chic crew cut. 
My daily routine includes a two-hour therapeutic stint at the hospital and a third hour of exercising in my own ver­sion of the Rockne Memorial's light ap­paratus room. But the time goes re­markably fast, as has been the case ever since I was able to get over the "bumpy back road and onto the smoother but seemingly interminable highwa y to health. 
I had hoped that my application for admission to Warm Springs would be accepted, but I just received word that the facilities there are overtaxed. I would be disappointed if I weren't sure that the patients there need and deserve prior attention. 
As a matter of fact, each day I stay here I realize how many friends I have. This last is not intended to sound pre­sumptuous, but emanates from 'way down in my heart. The prayers, the good wishes, the thoughtful oifers and favors, and the like, I appreciate more than I can ever say. 
By the way, being named "Man of the Year" by the St. Joseph Valley Club was no minor thrill. Winning the award, though, was only the beginning. Im­plied is a follow-through, a lifelong dedi-
Fighting against seemingly insuper­able odds has long been a Notre Dame tradition. Usually the tradition is con­fined to the football field, btit the "Ahim­mts" is jrroud to present herewith a letter from a non-athlete who is win­ning a mnch harder fight than any of those between goal lines and showing some commendable coiirage doing it. 
To refresh: Jack Miles, '47 was cover­ing a polio epidemic in Benton Harbor, Mich., in the summer of 'i9 on a routine assignment for the Soicth Bend "Trib­une." Ironically, he himself was stricken with the dread disease one week before his schedtiled marriage. 
Hereivith, as written by Jack, his own progress report. Such emirage, physical and spiritual, should afford inspiration to all Alumni, whether they know Jack or not. ED. 
cation to the principles and tenets which are instilled into the spiritually superior individual who is The Notre Dame Man. I hope that I may be considered as worthy of the plaque in 1970 after 20 years of homogenizing in life's test tube. 
So thafs the Miles story thus far; we anticipate adding more chapters as weeks and months pass. At present, however, the main concern is to rally the arms, shoulders, wrists, hands, and trunk so that I may soon propel myself about on crutches. Once I succeed. I should qualify as a hot contender for Indian wrestling honors in the '52 Olym­pics. 
My best to all, especially Bill Dooley and John Bums,-for their part in pro­ducing the welcome ALUMNUS. And a kudo to you, sir, for being an able and affable alumni secretary. Someone should give you a present. Perhaps a car .'. . ? Excuse me while I start the wheels rolling. 
Sincerely, 
—JACK MILES, '47. 


Reyniers to National Board 
Prof. James A. Reyniers, '30, director of LOBUND institute at the University, has been apiKiinted by President Tru­man to serve a six-year term on the newly-established National Science Board. 
The board, which is composed of 24 educators, industrialists and scientists, has been designated by President Tru­man "to develop and encourage the for­mation of a national policy for the pro­motion of basic research and education in the sciences." Among the board's specific duties will be the review of all government research grants from the National Science foundation for work In medicine, biology, mathematics, physics and engineering. 
Prof. Reyniers has spent 20 years of research at Notre Dame on a process by which laboratory animals can be reared in a germ-free atmosphere for scientific research. 
In requesting Prof. Reyniers' member­ship on the National Science Board, Pres­ident Truman stressed in a letter to the Notre Dame scientist the great responsi­bility which rests with the group because of the influence it will have on industrial development, national defense and the general welfare. The board -will meet for the first time in Washington, on Dec. 4, to select a chairman and to fonnnlate plans for its operation. 


Fr. Rizer's Self-Propelled Chapel 
How One Notre Dame Alumnus Is Bringing the Catholic Faith to the Back Areas 
Unusual occupations of Alumni are nothing new to readers of the ALUJINUS. Already we have a hairdresser (New Orleans) and a member of the '39 Class 
(Tom O'Brien) who's a French chef. 
Comes now Father James Eizer, '31, who runs a trailer-chapel through the back county of Virginia and uses the technique of the salesman, entertainer and circus publicity agent to bring the story of the Catholic Church to parts of the Old Dominion. Being a U. S. Home Missionary is • nothing unusual, but we feel that Father Eizer has a most interesting story to tell. 
The ALU.MNUS had asked him for a background sketch of his work, and here is his letter to Alumni Secretary James 
E. Armstrong: 
"Dear Jim. This is my first year in the motor chapel—having only been ordain­ed May of this year. Therefore I can't give you much background for a story. 
"The diocese has two motor chapels. Each is a comfortable home and church equipped with a public address system, record player and a motion picture pro­jector; together with 50 camp chairs. There are two priests in each chapel. We visit any rux*al location where we can obtain a vacant lot with parking space for a period of two weeks. 
Fadier James Rizer 

"The rural towns of Virginia as you well know are made up mostly of non-Catholics, some of whom have never seen a priest. Most of them have never met or talked to one, but they have heard some awfully fantastic stores about the Catholic Church. 
"The mission activity has a fourfold pui-pose—the primary one is converting rural non-Catholics and secondarily fos­tering the return of fallen-away Catho­lics. Third, say that dissolution of preju­dice and bigotry is another goal and the ultimate purpose is that of establishing parish churches. 
"The trailer season extends from May until the middle of September. Before we visit a town we send out handbills to all PO box holders (you can do that in small towns). We also place placards in store w^indows (with permission, which is sometimes denied) and tack them on Ijosts and fences. 
"We also advertise in the local papers. It is not too difficult to get people to come. They are naturally curious and have little else to do in the evenings. 
"We begin the programs at 7:30 each evening with the playing of sacred music for a half hour (we throw in a little hill­billy stuif now and then) and at eight we answer questions for another half hour. (During the day we place the ques­tion box in some prominent spot in town.) 
"At 8:30 a sermon—^which is followed by a movie short, usually a Bible story. We then invite those present to visit the motor chapel. That's a good way to meet them. 
"Speaking of questions — someone wanted to know the other evening if the 'Mark of the Beast' as mentioned in the -Apocalypse of St. John is our social se­curity number because to get a job you must either have it or be able to remem­ber it. 
"The majority of the people are very cordial and hospitable. Once they learn we have nothing to sell and that we don't take up any collections they respond well. We don't make a lot of converts but we do break down a great deal of preju­dice. We are fairly well satisfied if we can persuade half our contacts that it's not wrong for someone else to be a Catholic. 
"The Catholics in the rural areas are wonderful. Their faith means much to most of them because it has meant a fight for them and much opposition. 

"Life in the motor chapel is not all work. Last summer I managed to play golf 15 or 20 times. I've reached that age where I'm happy if I can break 90. 
"I understand the Army is interested in testing the value of newly developed insect sprays and repellents. They should send a man to see us. Our motor chapel would be a good testing ground. God bless you. Kindest regards, Fr. Jim." 
Mrs. Charles D. Terry Dies 

Mrs. Charles D. Terry, of Kewanee, 111., died Nov. 29 after a prolonged ill­ness. 
The mother of Freshman James Terry, and alumni Charles, '38; Richard, '46, and Robert, '47, Mrs. Terry was step­mother of Mrs. William R. Dooley, wife of the University Placement Director. A daughter, Mrs. Charles Bader, lives in Hammond, Ind., and another son, Thomas, is a Jesuit scholastic in Cali­fornia. 
Cartier Portraits to Library 

Charles E. Cartier, brother of the do­nor of Cartier Field and presently cashier of the Notre Dame Foundation, has presented the University with two life-sized Gregori portaits in oil of his parents, A. £ . and Eliza Ayers Cartier. 
The Italian artist Luigi Gregori paint­ed the Columbus murals in the halls of the Main Building of the University during his residence in the United States from 1882 to 1889. He returned in 1893 to exhibit paintings at the Columbian Exposition in Chicago, and one of them, "The Nativity," was given the Univer­sity. 
The Cartier portraits were formally accepted for the University by Paul Byrne, Director of University Libraries, and will remain in the Main Library. 
Thirteen members of the Cartier fami­ly have been educated at the University, all descendants of A. E. Cartier. Four sons, six grandsons and three great-grandsons have graduated from the Uni­versity in the past 75 years. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Fort Smith Rolls It Out for the 'B' Team 
B. Duval Johnston, "B" Team coach Dick Friend and Fort Smith Ray Donovan (dark coat) University Public Information Director Club President Ray Marre at airport just after the team landed. It mike; Benny Sheridan scratches head. Or is Benny just holding it? 
.A.n example of the potentialities of even the smallest Notre Dame alumni club was amply demonstrated over the week-end of November 4th and 5th by the "all-out" promotion by the Notre Dame Club of Fort Smith, Ark., of a football game between the Irish "B" team and the University of Arkansas Bees. 
The game itself, which attracted the amazing total of some 6,0C0 fans, prob­ably would have been a sell-out had it not been for the unseasonably chilly weather which descended that week-end on Fort Smith. Temperatures which hov­ered at the freezing mark, however, held the gate down to a minimum and thus deprived the Grizzly Stadium of a capa­city 8,000 house. 
Ray Marre, '37, president of the Fort Smith Club, made arrangements for the game more than a year ago. He arrang­ed for the Junior Chamber of Commerce in Fort Smith to join the Notre Darners as co-sponsors of the event. 
Ray started publicizing the game last December and apparently never let up. The net result was probably the most publicized "B" team game in history, certainly in the Arkansas area. And Ray and his co-workers carried through the arrangements to the minutest detail— even to the task of getting Grizzly Sta­dium decorated and ^ the field in shape for the game. 
You name it, and they had it that week-end in Fort Smith. Anybody ever hear of a parade down the main street of town for a "B" team game? Fort Smith did. Three bands—the University of Arkansas, Fort Smith High School, and a nearby army post—led the shin­dig which was climaxed in front of the 
November-December, 1950 
Goldman Hotel—headquarters for the Irish during their stay in Fort Smith. 
The Notre Darners played a night game against Arkansas. The question of what the alumni club could do to enter­tain the players, in view of the night game, was not one easily answered. The Notre Dame Fort Smith Club answered it with no difficulty—by sponsoring a dance for the boys that started at 11:30 
p. m., and by providing them with dates. The players didn't get much sleep, as you might gather—but neither did mem­bers of the Fort Smith Club. They pro­vided transportation for the Notre Dame party to Mass at 6:45 a. m. Sunday. Ex­cept for transportation difficulties, the festivities wouldn't have stopped at this point. Father Butterbach, pastor of the local Catholic church, wanted the team to be guests at a Communion breakfast following the Mass. But because of a shortage of planes over that particular week-end, the University had to agree to leave Fort Smith at 8 a. m. in order io obtain a chartered plane. By the way, the game ended in a 14 to 14 deadlock, thus paving the way— 
the Fort Smith Club hopes—for a re­match next year. 
A Team to End All Teams 
With the professional football season closed for everyone but the sunburnt Los Angeles Rams and San Francisco '49ers, the selection of an All-Professional team by everyone but J. Edgar Hoover is in­evitable. 
As an alternative the Alumnus offers for consideration an All-Notre Dame team, and with a straight face, too. How would you like to quarterback this one from a 50-yard line seat in the stands? 
ENDS: Yonakor, Yanlcs; Hart, Lions; Zilly, Rams; Wightkin, Bears. 
TACKLES: Connor, Bears; Rymkus, Browns; White, Giants ; Martin, Browns; Cifelli, Lions. 
GUARDS: Mastrangelo, Giants; Fis­cher, Cardinals; Signiago, Yanks; Wendell, Colts. 
CENTERS: Statuto, Rams; Walsh, Steelers. 
QUARTERBACK: Lujack, Bears ; Tripucka, Cards; Ratterman, Yanks. 
HALFBACKS: Angsman, Cardinals; Coutre, Packers; Sitko, '49ers; Zaleski, Colts. 
FULLBACKS: Clatt, Cardinals; Cow­hig. Rams; Panelli, Lions. 
That's all. 
Last take on the Pro's All-Notre Dame team comes from Joe Boland, '27, in Cleveland last October to broadcast the Browns-Cardinal tussle. 
At the early Mass in the Cathedral, Joe reports, it was genuinely edifying to notice that the Communion Rail was peopled with persons like Jim Martin, Elmer Angsman, Frank Tripucka, Bill Fischer, etc., who would • be playing against each other that afternoon. 
"They could have slept late and skipped the Sacrament," Joe says, "but there they were, just as in their student days. Outside the Cathedral' we had a small reunion, but nobody mentioned the Church. It just seemed perfectly natural that you'd meet other'Notre Dame men outside church in a strange city." 
classes in Air Science, inspected cadet drill and visited unit personnel during his stay. 
In the General's party from Selfridgc Air Base (Mich.), were his aide, Capt. Melvin 
The University Today 
Spaur, the 10th Air Force Information Offi­
A November visitor to the University was Kotara Tanaka, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Japan. 
Justice Tanaka lectured before stu­dents of the Law School and \'isited the Natural Law Institute. He is in this country to study the U. S. judicial sys­tem, with special attention to the U. S. Supreme Court. 
He said that Japan's Supreme Court is overloaded with cases, which, unlike cases referred to the U. S. Supreme Court must all be heard. The Japanese Supreme Court, Justice Tanaka said is overloaded with too many cases which should not be there. 
Universitj- students who intend following a career in youth guidance and correction in association with school programs are learn­ing through practical means in the Uni­versity's Bureau of Youth Counseling. 
Set up by the University and staffed by graduate students in the Correctional Ad­ministration Curriculum, the program ser\'es as the connecting link between the Catholic parochial school and the home where so­cial case work and counseling are indicated. It is operated jointly by the University and the South Bend clergy. 
Students wishing to follow business careers or to enter the diplomatic serv­ice in Latin America are taking advan­tage of the University's Latin-American studies, inaugurated last September. 
The program stresses the inter-rela­tionship of basic Spanish culture and the native cultures of Central and South America. It offers a more comprehensive and advanced treatment of the history and Catholic culture of Latin America. 
Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., lias suc­ceeded Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., as head of the Department of Religion at the University. Father Hesburgh had head­ed the department since 1948. 
Father Sheedy is a 1933 graduate of the University and received an LL.B. degree from the University of Pittsburgh in 1936. A native of Pittsburgh, he was ordained in 1942. In 1947 he received a Doctorate of Sacred Theology from Catholic University. 
A widely-published author. Father Sheedy has wTitten "The Christian Virtues," a text­book used in Catholic Morals courses, and "The Eucharistic Controversy of the 11th has wTitten articles for the "American Ec­clcsiastical Review." 
Rev. Astrik L. Gabriel, University fac­ulty member now on leave for attendance at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton has had published in Ecclesia. the Vatican illustrated review an article on the University. 
Written in Italian, the translated title reads "The Heart of the State of Indi­ana." 
The article, illusti-ated by six pictures is part of the work Father Gabriel is do­ing in the Institute's School of Historical 
Studies. 
—:— 

Commander of the 10th Air Force, Alaj. Gen. Harry A. Johnson recently inspected the University's ROTC Unit. 
General Johnson attended numerous cer, Lt. Col. James T. Sheridan, and Maj. Sylvester Burke, in charge of 10th .Mr Force ROTC units. 

The inspecting group were guests of Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at luncheon in the faculty dining room. 
Two world-renowned scientists recent­ly read papers before an inter-university seminar at the University's Biology Building auditorium. 
Dr. Enrico Fermi, the Italian genius who developed the first sustained chain reaction and made the atom bomb a reality, and Dr. Arthur H. Snell, chief physicist at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory delivered technical addresses before delegates from 12 universities. 
Later the scientists toured the Uni­versity's high polymer and electronics laboratories and inspected the Univer­sity's two atom-smashers. 
The Madonna of the Alumni Is Consecrated 
Century." During World War II he was Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Executive vice-president of the University, consecrating editor of the "Chaplain's Digest" and he the statue in Sacred Heart Church. It b a replica of thi statue atop the Dome. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Jock Henebry, a Brigadier General at NOTRE DAME 
32, Commands 437th Troop Carrier Wing 
Jock Henebry, the Alumni' Associa­Included in the 437th's officer person­tion's youngest brigadier-genral, is back nel is Col. John W. Lacey, '38, who re­
Books 

to the wars. Jock, of the class of '40, is also the Air Force's youngest B.G. and has nearly every decoration the law al­lows. 
Commanding general of the 437th Troop Carrier Wing now in action over Korea, Jack wears the following salad: Distinguished Service Cross, Silver Star, Distinguished Flying Cross (with three clusters). Air Medal (with three clus­ters) , Purple Heart and Legion of Merit. 
In the South Pacific during World War II, Jock served under Lt. Gen. George S. Kenney as commanding officer of the 3rd Attack Group and named his own plane, a Mitchell B-25 bomber the "Notre Dame de Victoire." Jock's assessed valuation to the Air Force is suggested in a let­ter Gen. Kenney wrote to a dignitary who had requested an extension of leave for Jock: 
". . . Your request seemed reasonable if my leading Attack Bomb Commander really wanted to stay home to watch Notre Dame gather fresh laurels. 
"Jock's group would probably take a poor view of your suggestion—those lads of his are checking the days until his re­turn and if he is to solve all the prob­lems—official and personal—that they have saved for him he will be a busy man. No one in that combat group can be persuaded that any problem whatever will not melt away when they get that Irishman back on the job." 
The 437th left O'Hare Field, Chicago, in October and was welcomed in Japan by MacArthur's air chief, Lt. Gen. George E. Stratemeyer. Gen. Henebry has, by this writing, piled up quite a few additional missions to the 280 (that's correct—280) combat sorties he flew in the South Pacific. 
linquished the presidency of the Chicago Alumni Club when he was recalled to active duty. Jack, far too retiring to fill in the editors of the ALUJINUS with per-
BRIG. GEN. JOHN HENEBRY 

sonal details, will have to be satisfied with this passing mention. 
[The details on Jock Henebry are not from him. He shies from publicity as much as Lacey does. We got them from the public prints.] 
Received too late to be included in the Class Section of the ALUMNUS, was news of the deaths of Bill O'Laughlin, '39, and the father of Walt Kennedy, '34. The ALUMNUS extends sympathy to the families, and asks prayers of the Alumni. 
CASES AND MATERIALS ON AIR LAW, Clarence E. Manion, Bobbs-Merrill, $7.50. 
In his latest text Dean Manion dis­cusses two aspects of the air—one as a lane for transportation and another the relatively new field of radio and tele­vision. 
The book provides a comprehensive text and case book on the subject of air law and a reference to persons interested in the fundamental conceptions underlying aviation, radio communication and tele­vision. Discussed at length is the Fed­eral Communications Commission and its jurisdiction over air communications. 
Dean of the University Law College since 1945, Mr. Manion has previously published "Americanism" and "Lessons in Liberty." Scheduled for a 1951 pub­lishing date is his newest text, "The Key to Peace."—R.W.D. 
Professor Richard Sullivan of the University English Department has two new books to be published in 1951. 
The first is his collection of short stories, "The Fresh and Open Sky, and Other Stories," to be printed by Henry Holt & Co. 
Holt & Company will also publish next • year a history of the University written by Professor Sullivan. It will be a per­sonalized narrative and starts with the coming of Father Sorin and his small band of helpers, who arrived in 1842. 
Professor Sullivan, who teaches crea­tive writing will emphasize the Univer­sity's influence on the nation's growth and culture, particularly its training of moral, responsible leaders. 
Calendar of Campus Events Scheduled for I950-'5I 
Dec. 20 (Wed.)  First day of Christinas vacation.  Mar. 28 (Wed.)  Classes resume  at 8  a.  m.  
Jan.  3 (Wed.)  Classes resume at 8 a. m.  Mar. 30 (Fri.)  Midsemestcr reports of deficient students.  
Jan.  18 to 25  Semester Examinations in all courses.  Apr. 1 (Sun.)  .Rockne Memorial Conununion Sunday.  
Jan. 28 (Sim.)  January Commencement Exercises.  Apr. 2 (Mon.)  Universal Notre Dame Night.  
Jan. 30, 31  Registration for courses in second semester.  Apr. 4-13  Preregistration for rooms with Director of Stu­ 
Feb.  1  (Thurs.)  Classes begin at 8 a. m.  dent Accounts.  
Feb.  7 (Wed.)  University Players, Washington Hall, 8 p. ra.,  iVIay 3  (Thurs.)  Ascension Thursday, no classes.  
"Macbeth."  May 24-31  Semester examinations in all courses  
Feb. 8 (Thurs.)  University Players, Washington Hall, 8 p. m.,  May 30 (Wed.)  Memorial Day, no  classes.  
"Arms and the Man."  June 2 (Sat.)  Senior Class Day Exercises.  
Feb. 22 (Thurs.)  Washington's  Birthday — no  classes.  Senior  June 3 (Sun.)  June Conunencement Exercises.  
Class Exercises, 10:30 a. m.  June 8, 9, 10  Alumni Class Reunions.  
Mar. 16 (Fri.)  Juilliard String Quartet, Washington Hall,p. ni.  8  Dec. 31, 1930—^Last date for qualification for Alimmi  
Mar. 21 (Wed.)  First day of Easter vacation  Preference Ticket Applications.  

November-December, 1950 
Dies in Indianapolis  coach. Bill, Jr., is a promising halfback. Joseph Rockne Morrissey, from Pur- Joe Rigrali, '25, a shock trooper on Rockne's Four Horsemen aggregation,  
cell High,  Cincinnati,  is the eldest  son  is  the  father  of  Robert  J. Rigali,  an­ 
of  Joe  ('28)  Morrissey,  a  quarterback  other  halfback.  Bob  is  a  product  of  
under  Rock.  Joseph  R,  is  5'6",  and  Fenwick.  High,  Chicago,  and  is  the  
weighs  166.  He's  a  halfback.  heaviest of the trio.  He weighs 175.  

Mr. "AI" Fecney, '15 
"Al" Feeney, '15, a teammate of Knute Rockne and one of Indiana's most colorful public figures, died suddenly Nov. 12 in Indianapolis. 

Ho had just finished an address to the Daughters of Isabella at their Com­munion Breakfast. 
Born in 1892 in Indianapolis, Mr. Fesney was elected mayor there and began his term of ofiice Jan. 1, 1948. He had held a number of state and county posts since leaving Notre Dame and at one time operated a stock brokerage firm with Knute Kockne. 
In 1934 Gov. Paul V. McNutt ap­pointed him head of Indiana's Depart­ment of Safety and he served as director of the State Athletic Commission. He was elected sheriff of Marion County twice (1938-42). 
Always interested in bettering rscrea­tion facilities for youth, he continually fought for more and better playgrounds in his native Indianapolis. 
Burial was in Holy Cross Cemetery, following a solemn requiem Mass in St. Joan of Arc Church. 
Three Sons of Alumni Earn Freshman Football Numerals 
The list of freshmen winning football numerals in the 1950 season includes (at last count) three sons of alumni, who themselves were not in the back row when it came to playing. 
William J. Cemey, Jr., 5'10" and 170, is of course the son of Bill Cerney, '25, former backfield star and assistant 
LIMITED EDITION REPRINTS 
Limited Edition Prints of this litho­Mr. Neal made sketches last spring before the campus trees were in full 
graph, 10'/2 by 13% inches, matted and leaf and the lithograph presents an un­ready for framing are available from 
usual view of the Dome and Spire. the University Bookstore. 
Only members of the Alumni .Asso­

The lithograph is the work of Mr. ciation are offered the prints, and an Reginald H. Neal, Director of the South order form is attached for their use. Bend Art -Association, and a limited The prints will be sent from the book­number of signed originals have been store on approval, as outlined in the made for alumni. order form. 
Please mail to me LIMITED EDITION PRINT (S) entitled University of Notre Dame by Reginald Neal. It is understood that may have the privilege of inspecting this print. If it should not meet with my approval I may return it within five days without any obligation. 
NAME CLASS STREET CITY STATE I am enclosing my check in the amount of ?20 for each print _ 
Please bill me later for the above order. 
Return this order blank to the University of Notre Dame 
UNIVERSITY BOOKSTORE, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Drop the A-Bomb? 

YES. Decia res Father John J. Cavanaugh, Under These Conditions: 
The ALUMNUS presents hereioith a statement of the University President, Rev. John J, Cavanaugh, C.S.C., given for a press interview. The Chicago "Herald-Amer­ican" had asked Father Cavanaugh if the atom bomb 

should be dropped in Korea, 
"Should the United States use the atomic bomb in the Korean and Red China conflict?" 
I take the question to mean, "Is it morally permissible?" not "Is it advisable?" The answer to the latter question must be given by our highest military planners, and it is not to be answered lightly. 
I will attempt to give my opinion as to the foi-mer question but it should be answered by ths highest and most competent moral sources after prayer and fasting. 
First, the moral law would permit us to use the bomb direct­ly against the armed forces of the Communist enemy, that is, against his troops, whether in the line or in transport, and against his ships. In a just war, it is permissible to kill directly, to "shoot to kill," and the principle stands whether the killing is done with rifles or with the most destructive weapons. This is certainly a just war, against an unjust and deadly aggressoif 
Ws could lawfully defend our own homeland against such an attack, and therefore we may lawfully intei-vene to defend another country, provided only that we are certain of our streng^th when we make the commitment. What one can law­fully do for himself he can do for another, if he is certain of his strength. 
Secondly, I think it would be permissible for us to use the bomb in strategic bombing of military targets judged by our highest military planners to be of the highest importance. Such 

and this is his answer. ED. 
military targets would be, for example, centers of production 
of coal, oil, and uranium; or iron and steel; great dams and 
centers of electrical power; plants producing weapons and mili­
tary transport, etc. 

This bombing would be permissible, even though it be fore­
seen, though not intended, that the death of many members of 
the non-combatant civilian population will ensue. 
Here is involved the principle that it is permissible to pursue 
a legitimate end (in this case the destruction of the enemy's 
military power) even though evil results not intended are fore­
seen to follow as an inevitable adjunct of the pursuit of the 
legitimate end. 

Thirdly, I think it would be wrong and immoral for us to bomb indiscriminately the enemy's cities thinking to demoralize and terrorize the populations, and cause them to want to get out of the war. I cannot subscribe to the theory of "total war" which would regard the entire enemy population as "com­batants": women and children, the aged and sick, professional men and tradesmen — persons in wartime going about the same tasks that they perform in times of peace. 
These people are non-combatants—^"innocents," in'terms of Catholic theology—and it would be murder to kill them. There­fore, such arguments as, "it would shorten the war and save many lives of our soldiers," are unavailing, because here an evil means—murder—is used to produce a good result. 
At New York's Conference of Christians and Jews Inter-Alumni Relations 
"Bud" Dudley, Philadelphia Club President, greeting Joe Verdeur, champion swimmer of LaSallc College at LaSalle's athletic din­ner. Bud was toastmaster for the event. 
The Philadelphia Alumni Club is pioneer­Hotel executive Conrad Hilton, Father Cavanaugh, and NY Times' Julius Ochs Adier. ing to bring Catholic alumni closer t<^eth:r. 
Contributions from Clubs total $23,708.99 in 1950 
Alumni Clubs 
BufFolo 
President George Fcrrick called the first fall meeting on Thursday, Oct. 26. Plans were com­pleted for the Cleveland excursion and others fonnulated for the benefit to the Southern Cali-fomia-Notrc Dame game. 
Don Love, Jim Clatiss and John Hoclscber arc in charge and have a wonderful program lined up for the trip to the game in California. The trip is \-alued at $700 and includes two round-trip air flights, hotel accommodations, tickets to the game, entertainment expenses, etc. The • benefit is an annual affair and the results arc announced at a cocktail party for Xotrc Dame men and their wives and friends. 
The trip to Cleveland for the Na\y game was one of the most successful ever held by the Buffalo Club. Chaiiie Hanna, Chuck KfcCartliy and Tom Dowd handled all of the disagreeable pre-game work, ^ou t 1,500 Notre Dame fans boarded two trains for Cle\-cland early in the morning on Satur­day, November 4. The weather, bad as it was, did not seem in any way to **dampen" the spirits of the crowd and ever>'one had a Avonderful time. 
(Refreshments were served both to and from the game.) 
Plans are under way for the Communion Break­fast to be held in December. George has appointed a committee to arrange for a speaker and the breakfast. A large number of Notre Dame men and their families are again expected this year. 
The Club's Auxiliary is again busy preparing for an active year. Under the able leadership of Mrs. Beverley (Ted) Flanigan they have already con­ducted a most enjoyable square dance and had their own raffle—for tickets to tlie Cleveland game. Plans are now being fonnulated for other social functions (card parties, cocktail parties, etc.) to be held in the near future. 
Boston 
Notre Dame Communion Sunday will be observed this year on December 10. 
John ^foran arranged and conducted a ver>' suc­cessful trip to the Pittsburgh game in South Bend for the Boston Associates of Notre Dame. 
Boston's Pilgrim Theatre has been carrying the football games on its screen again this year, and Notre Dame sons and enthusiasts in this area arc most appreciative. 
Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel has left the staff at Har\-ard University to head the surgical research program at Gcorgctov^Ti University. 
Dr. Howard Haley has Joined the staff at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and the faculty of Har\-ard Universit>', and is a new member of our club. Hal spent the last year in Alaska as Chief Surgeon of an Army hospital there. 
Maiic Limont, ^vho represents Berkeshire Life In­surance Company, has moved from Pittsficld to Boston and is another new club member. 
Dick Herlihy and Kathleen O'Connor were mar­ried on October 28 at St. Thomas Church in Ja­maica Plain. 
Chicago 
Departure of President John W. Lacej* to assume his rank as Colonel in the Air Force inspired a stcpped-up program of activity among the admin­istrative staff of the club to reorganize the schedule for the club year. Details will be given below, but for clarity, here is the program as blueprinted for 1950-1951: 
Football Smoker—October 26 (already held). Communion Breakfast—Sunday, December 10. Bal Noel—Saturday, January 6. Annual Meeting—Past Presidents* Night—Mon­
day, January 29. Universal Notre Dame Night—Saturday, April 7. June Graduates—^Alumni Smoker, approx. June 20. Golf Outing—a Monday in July. Undergraduate-Alumni Smoker—circa Sept. 10. 

Meeting after Jack Lace>-'s Icavetaking, the Club officers and Board of Governors studied the matter of succession in ofiice raised by the president's absence, and decided, in accordance with the pro­visions of the Club constitution, that First Vice-President Alfred C. Stepan, Jr. would become Act­ing President, with the title of president remaining vested in Col. Lacey, until he had cither by leave of the Air Force dropped the "Colonel" or until his term of office had expired. All gave President Lacey a heartfelt vote of thanks for his fine per­formance in office, and offered prayers and best wishes in his militar>* duties. 
Jim Armstrong was kind enough to accept an invitation to appear at this meeting, and suggested that the club follow in procedure and activities the outline provided by the University for cit>- and area organizations. Tbe administration concurred in his suggestion, and will put the outline into practice. An inquiry' was held on the pressing question of the origin and cure for the Ietharg>- felt by the plurality among club members about club affairs. While it was felt that only the Divine Intelligence knew the complete prescription for a panacea, it was felt that the encouragement of new members —directly upon graduation—in club affairs would supply a large measure of the necessarj- antidote. To this end, two new affairs, slanted at recent or future alumni, were incorporated into the sched* 
Contributions by Classes 
Year No Class Members Amount 1900 and before 24 I $ 1,721.50 1901 6 130.00 1902 . ,,. ' 703.00 
1903 in 263.00 1904 I? 1,095.00 1905 370.00 
' 

1906 II 487,712.50 1907 9 335.00 1908 in 6(0.00 1909 9 3,816.00 1910 9 1.285.00 1911 93 638.00 1912 11 2,960.00 1913 13 535.00 1914 3n 1,036.00 1915 09 1,230.00 1916 ?n 1,268 JO 1917 ?? 3,761.00 1918 94 631.00 1919 IS 515.00 1920 3n lp24.00 1921 33 1,789.00 1922 «1 2,263.70 1923 SR 2,100,75 1924 fin 2,632.50 1925 I7fi 6,087.00 1926 R3 2,703 JO 1927 107 2,820.25 1928 inq 3,412.00 1929 ins 6,418.34 1930 iin 2,722.00 1931 162 3.882.00 1932 19R 3,021.88 1933 isn 3,279.50 1934 I?9 3,067.75 1935 I SI 3,378.16 1936 113 l,732JO 1937 133 2.137.50 1938 ifin 3,393J0 1939 1S1 3,072.00 1940 179 3,388.25 1941 IRfi 102,269.75 1942 172 2,(M6.75 1943 IfiS 2,398 JO 1944 14R 1,993.15 1945 R4 944.00 1946 RS 944.60 1947 916 2,183.00 1948 2,787.00 1949 494 36,833.70 1950 S99 1,996 JO 1931 I 1.00 
1952 9 112J0 

ulc listed above. These are the June graduate-Alumni Smoker to be held circa June 20, and the Student-Alumni Smoker projected for around Sep­tember 10, just before Chicago undergraduates re­turn to Notre Dame. In asmuch as word^of-mouth enthusiasm is the most potent factor in arousing club-wide activity, it M'as urged upon all present to "talk Notre Dame club" at every opportunity. 
If you'll pardon a whisper from the wings, it is this humble scribe's opinion that the Chicago club is fortunate indeed to have as its head the present Acting President. Stepan has an awesome amount of energy and enthusiasm, and a deep-rooted loy­alty to the school which is not based on^uch cphe­merals as football wins. 
It's true that he's a friend of mine, but I'm speaking objectively, from the memory of the con­sumptive ghosts of past club meetings, not only in Chicago but elsewhere. As an impartial obser\*er, I'd say nothing is more deadly, more haunting, more eternally depressing than a dying club, par­ticularly an alumni club. It pcr\-ades the very feel­ing of loyalty towards the university it allegedly represents, until Alma Mater has the odor of a shroud and the ringing air of well-being of a neurotic zombie. Much of the blame for the mor­
tality among such organizations lies in the caliber of their presidents. But by far the m-eater fault lies among the members themselves, who acquiesce in mismanagement when the wrong man gets in office. Chicago is lucky, for my dough, in having Stepan—he'll give it all he's got, which is plent>-. But it's up to the members themselves, who should attend meetings and social affairs if oniy to grouse about how they arc run. Perhaps the guy w-ho beefs the loudest will be the next and best president of the club: after all, the objective of these groups is not to hold wakes, although there arc allowable comparisons in certain side activities, such as those which used to be held in Irish kitchens during the keening. Now I'll climb back into my bomb shelter with the final word that the Universit>­would probably rather have no club at all than one that's dead on its feet. So let's go, Chicago—all shove together, and we'll- pay for the breakage in the morning. 
Chairmen for the forthcoming events were selected as follows: Football Smoker, Bob Eder, who did a great job; Communion Breakfast—Jack Clark, '48; Bal Noel—John S. Gleason, '36; Annual Meeting— Frank E. DoK-d, '42; Universal Notre Dame Night —Fred Becklenberg, Jr., '33; June Graduates-Alumni Smokei^-Ben Binkowski, '39; Golf Outing— Dan Gibbs, '38; Undergraduate-Alumni Smoker— Jolm J. Coyle, '37. It was also decided that ratlier than name a publicity chairman for each event, a standing committee chairman would be named, who would also be appointed to the board of Governors. In view of his past newspaper experience and pres­ent job—public relations counsel for Rosary College —Joe McCabe, '33, was to be asked to ser^'e. 
(This is me, folks.) 
Next meeting was held October 9. Bill Dooley ifas the guest star, giving his adWce on the subject of job counselling, from the vantage-point of his new position as Placement Counsellor for the Uni­versity. Bill: "The University now has a working agreement with the Illinois State Employment Serv­ice, at 73 W. Washington, Chicago. Job-seekers will be registered there. Recommended also is the DePaul Job-Finding Forum, which meets the second and fourth Monday every month, excepting in the sununer. This is not the time to enlarge placement work in sweeping fashion, inasmuch as employment is good and will be better." 
Jolm Coyle was appointed chairman of a com­mittee to investigate methods of establishing closer relations with Chicago undergraduates at ND. Mr. HOINC Taylor, president of the Chicago Club of Notre Dame, attended the meeting, and gave his views—all favorable—on the prospect of a closer liaison and friendship bctw-een the campus and city clubs of Chicago Notre Dame men. Taylor was then elected to serve as co-chairman with Coyle in attacking the problems concerned. It was agreed that upon Taylor's graduation, the succeeding presi­dent of the campus club would step' in as co-chair-
Wiiliamsport, Pa., Inducts Its New Officers 
Seated, (1 to r) past president Frank Hayes; Tom Dorris, v.p.; Bill Do^vns, pres.; Rev. Alphonsus Manlcy; Leo Barland and Anthony Stopper. Standing, John Wilhnan, sec; Pete Somerville and Harry Krimm, dinner co-chairmen and Joe Neuwirth. 
man to work on this continuing project of bringing the two clubs closer together. The Chairman on Publicity—heh-heh—outlined a program for future press coverage, which included, among other things, closer attention to the neighborhood weeklies. He also projected the formation of a group of close friends of the University who arc newsmen into some form of honorary* membership as an indica­tion of the club*s gratitude for their friendship. 
A number of reports were then given on the progress of arrangements for the club affairs already listed. Inasmuch as most of these are to be held later, the more distant in time will be omitted as arrangements are still subject to change. 
Paramount in importance, since it is the only purely spiritual gathering planned by the club, is the annual Communion Breakfast, to be held at Holy Trinity Church December 10. Mass will begin at 9:00 a.m.—WIVES INVITEE*—and breakfast will be scr\ed in the high school cafeteria of the parish, which is at 1118 N. Noble. Father Voss of the Cana Conference of Chicago will speak. 
Social highlight of the year will be Bal Noel, or the Christmas dance, translated freely. As is e\i­dent from the name, this is to be an affaire mag­nifique, or to translate again, formal and yet_ fiin. The tariff seems a bit above the ordinar>*—$15 per couple—but quick reflection will remind all that the Senior Ball cost a lot more than that and for some of us at least, those were not good days. Depres­sion, if you'll pardon the expression. This function is planned to be a reassurance for the little woman —ND men can throw other affairs besides smokers —so take her out RIGHT to the party of the year. Jimmy Blades orchestra, the Drake, 7 p.m. Janu­ary 6. Don*t forget—fdet mignon dinner . . . timm-mm-m. 
REPORT ON THE FOOTBALL SMOKER: This function aptly deserves the old tag "artistic suc­cess." The crowd \vas good—in the neighborhood of 300—but belou* expectations, inasmuch as the tariff ivas only $1. But the program was great. Toastmaster Zi'ggie Czarobski, and speakers Hunk Anderson, Moose Kiause, AI Stcpan, and the in­imitable sports editor, columnist and reporter John Cannichael of the Chicago Daily News were in top form. Movies of the Tulane victory were shown. Seen there (forgive the aging memory): Joe Nash, Cari "Stumpy" Cionin, Eddie Ryan, Bai Leahy, Bill Fischer, Ray Meyer, Tony Wrre, Lany Dunbar, Marty Wendell, John McGoorty, J. Ray Hunt, Neil Hurley, Barry O'Keefe, Frank Casey, Jack Montroy, Luke Tieman, Dan Gibbs, Joha Coyle, and a host of others. All hands should extend a loud cheer for the untiring efforts of General Chairman Bob Eder, and assistants Jay Reynolds, Ben Binkowski, and the many others 
•who assisted. For those who couldn't make it—you missed a good time .. . see you next year! 
Cincinnati 
Our latest club gathering was held at the Dcvou Countn' Club in Park Hills, Kentucky. Bob BischofF handled the party and no complaints were heard about the excellent dinner which Bob arranged. Judge Charles S- ^Vehrman was our guest speaker. Joe Morrissey was presented with the **\fan-of-the-Ycar" Award by John Cottingbam, retiring Presi­dent. 
The officers elected for the 1950-51 year arc Robert C. Burke, President; B. M. Brockman, Jr., Vice-President; Richard A'Heam, Secretary, and Charles J. Heringer, Jr., Treasurer. Disaster over­took the newly-clccted slate, however, when the Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer all were forced to leave Cincinnati for business reasons. They have been replaced by the following ap­pointments: Vice-President, Bert Schloemer; Secre­tary, Jack Bond; Treasurer, Jim Burke, who will fill out the unexpired terms for the coming year. 
Our annual picnic for Alumni and students from the area was held at the Melbourne Country Club in Melbourne, Kentucky. Howard Rohan and Jack Brodbcrger capably handled this affair. 
Plans are now going forward under **a full head of steam" for the Annual Scholarship Ball which, this year will be held on Thursday, December 28, at the Hotel Netherland Plaza. With Dick Scallan as Chairman, we are all expecting the dance to continue to be one of the major events of the Christmas season. Tlie proceeds of this affair, as usual, will be used for our scholarship fund set up to aid a deserving boy each year from the Cin­cinnati area who wishes to attend the University. 
Cleveland 
It is always a gala occasion w-hen Notre Dame and Navy meet in Cleveland. 
It is becoming a tradition wljich should continue through the years despite the proximity to South Bend or the new Stadium in Baltimore. Cleveland­ers and their neighbors love this classic—70 odd thousand turned out on a day foredoomed to rain and sleet, and %vcre rewarded ^«th a clean, close contest well worth the invitation to pneumonia. 
As early as Wednesday, the out-of-towners" ap­peared on the scene. Charles (Chuck) Rohr and his charming wife entertained Mr. and Mrs. Ed (Nfoose) Krause and Mr. and Mrs. Herb Jones at beautiful R Farm in Chardon. Guests included Mr. and Mrs. Don Miller, Jack Elder, Ticmcr 0*Rourke of New York, Tom Byrne, Pat Cannr and a few others. Steaks were THAT thick. In­formal luncheons and bull sessions were climaxed by a jam-packed rally at the Hotel Carter Fri­day night. 
Toastmaster was the capable and entertaining John Cannichael, Sports Editor of the Chicago Daily News. Sincerity and humor high-lifted his introductions of the great number of visiting dig­nitaries. Speakers included Father Hcdmigh, Frank Leaky and Ed (Mooae) Kranse for Notre Dame, and Capt. H. H. Caldwell, Director of Athletics and Csyit. Robert Pine, Commandant, for the Naval Academy.- Also on the program were Mel Allen and Jim Britt, famous radio and TV an­nouncen. 
Working with the precision of a timekeeper, Bfr. Cannichael concluded the q>eakcrs* program and released his gavel in favor of Jon Beljon's musical baton. Notre Dame men, their wives, sons and daughters danced away the hours until time ran out. 
Saturday it runed. After a while you got used to it, so then it sleeted. It didn't deter but a few. Equally traditiooal ia Cleveland is the pre-game luncheon at the Stadium. Altho tickets were lim­ited to 200, many, many more arrived to lunch with Father Join J. Cavanan^ Father Hesbnr^, Secretary of the Navy Matthews, his wife and children, and Admirals Hill and Dunham. Equal in number were clerical collars and Navy brass. Everyone there was V. I. P., but space I^tations prevent a Who's Who listing. 
Notre Dame, 19; Navy, 10. Nuff said. Then the Victory Dance Saturday night. Joe Hruby (ND) and his orchestra provided sweet music for the h^>py crowd. And another Notre Dame-Navy classic was written into the books. So many were responsible for the success of the week­end it is embarrassing to accidentally leave out names of those deserving of an accolade. Ed Cany and Bill Rooy were General Chairmen. Other Chairmen and Committee members include Ed KS­leen, Vic Gnlyassy, Jerry Hammer, Joe Hanratty, Bob Stadc, Pat Canny and Gene Kane. Directing the activities at all times was the able Jack Elder, Club President. To him and his Board of Direc­tors—an orchid. 
Looking to the Future: The Notre Dame Family Communion Breakfast will be held in Cleveland on Sunday, December 10, in honor of the Immaculate Conception. Mass will be at St. John's Cathedral at 9 o'clock, with breakfast at Hotel Hollenden immediately thereafter. This is always a well-at­tended and beautiful affair, at which Notre Dame men and their entire families pay homage to Our Lady on Her Feast Day. 
To end the calendar year, plans for the formal Christmas Dance are well towards completion. The date: Friday, December 29;' the place: Rainbow Room, Hotel Carter; the time: 10 p.m.; the price: reasonable for the fun you have. Happy Thanks­giving! 
Conneetleuf Valley 
The inevitable summer slowdown put our club on a somewhat inactive basis, but we're back in the le^^e now with a real program. 
The activities are greatly increased now that meetings are sponsored on a regular monthly basis. Plans are under consideration for a dinner party and dance to be held in the Spring and prior to that an affair in the Bushnell Memorial Hall in Hartford, Connecticut. 
This Club will hold the annual Communion Breakfast at the Bond Hotel on December 10, 1950. All Notre Dame men in Connecticut afe inrited to this breakfast and reservations will be made for them if th^v contact our Club President as listed in the ALUMNUS. 
Dollos 
The Notre Dame Club of Dallas sponsored a trip to New Orleans and the Tulane game a few weeks ago. Mike Lenihan made all the arrange­ments and did an excellent job. The group arrived by train in New Orleans, Friday morning and re­turned to Dallas, Sunday evening. Other Dallas alumni went by plane and car. Mr. and &frs. Walter Fleming gave a party at the Roosevelt for 
those making the special trip. The club had a dinner November 9, honoring T-ff'*rti*t»r Smith, a recent law graduate of Notre Dame, football star, and member of the Notre Dame Freshman coaching staff in 1949. Lank is now head football coach at Jesuit High school in Dallas. Lank made a short talk following the din­ner and then showed a football movie. During this business meeting, our president, Jim Walsh, announced that we would have 3 Christmas dance. Charlie Lahr was appointed to fill out the 
Father and Son Night in Schenectady Mexico City 
Club Sccrciaty Frank Linrhan (far left, first row) reports elsewhere on the CluVs Father & Son Night. Frank is ^vearing new eye-glasses—see page 15, September-October ALUMNUS, for contrast. 
unexpired lenn of secretary, vacated by Bill Brown, who is moving to San Antonio. 
The club wishes to express its deepest sympathy to Jim Simmons, whose mother passed away re­cently. 

John Giles and Dave Cowdtn, 1950 graduates of XD. arc the newest members of our club. John returned recently from a lour of Europe and is now in Law School at SMU. Dave is working tor the Cowdin Construction Co. and has recently be­come engaged to Miss Wanda Taylor of Dallas. 
Fort Lauderdale 
The Xotrc Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale held a regular meeting on Wednesday, the first day of November, and the guest of honor was Dr. R. L. Eiluton of Fort Lauderdale, who was the club re­cipient of an all-cxpemc to:ir to the Tulane-Xotrc Dame game. Dr. Elliston gave a report of this game to the club as well as his trip in general. 
R- H. Gore, Jr., who attended the Michigan State game while in Chicago on business, also gave an exciting report of that game which he attended as Father Ca\-anaugii*s guest. 
Other buMncss items discussed during the eve­ning were the entertainment of the N^otre Danu^ football players who would be in this vicinity for the Xorth-South Shrine game, to be played in Miami. Entertaining this Xotre Dame team has become an annual tradition of the club and the club is looking fonvard to royally cntert.iinin^ those members of the team who arc fcrlunatc caough to play this year. 
Discussed also was the proposed visit of the Xotre Dame Glee Club to Fort Laudc-rdalc on their Southern tour early in Fcbniar>-. 
Frjnds Moss of Fort Lauderdale was voted into the ::lub as an associate member. 
After the meeting was adjourned the members gathered together to watch the movies of the Slichigan State game over the local television. 
Our next meeting will be held on tlie first Wed­nesday of December at the Coral Ridge Yacht Club. All \isiting alumni who wish to attend can make arrangements to do so by contacting George H. Gore, secretary-, at 23663. 
Harrisburg 
A football ticket benefit was conducted by the Club for the Parochial Athletic Association (^Iidget football teams of the Harrisburg Diocese) who, in the past had to raise funds for equipment by con­tributions from parents, parishes, etc At the start wc Were a little apprehensive as to the outcome . because of the tremendous cash outlay required for prizes, but at the windup Ave were successful in 
turning back to the various parishes approximately $4,500 and we. of the Xotre Dame Club, netted around 5700 after all expenses. The basis upon whicli we conducted the benefit was: 
1. First prize: All expense trip to the XD-Pitt game for two, which included pullman reservations and room at the Oliver—or $200 cash. 2. Second prize: All expense trip to XD-Xa\"y game for two, which included pullman reservations and room at the Statlcr—or $100 cash. 3. Third prize: All ex­pense trip to Army-Xav>' in Philadelphia (a top­notch prize in this area) which included pullman and four tickets—or $50 cash. 4. Fourth prize: Four Pcnn-Army tickets only. 5. Firth prize: Four Penn-Corncll tickets only. 
Tlie project no^ only gave us excellent publicity but it fostered a project for the young boys who some day may be excellent timber for XD. Too, we secured wonderful cooperation from all the Pastors in' the area and gave them a ''no expense'* method of raising funds for their respective church activities. 
In the Spring of 1951 we intend to conduct a College Xight at the Harrisburg Catholic High School. The Xotrc Dame Club will be the guiding hand in this endeavor, the purpose of which will be to acquaint parents with the Catholic colleges in the countr>', and to give them a picture of what a prospective student can expect if the>* select a definite school for their college training. Each par­ticipating school will be assigned a classroom in which they will set up pictorial displays, have cata­logues available, and have, in charge of the room, one or two graduates who will discuss with parents and prospective students the merits of the School. 
This will enable the parent and prospective stu­dent to get a better insight as to what to expect if accepted for enrollment. The College Xight usually will last three nights, preferably Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights, to give ever>*onc a chance to attend. Xo applications are accepted for enrollment, but if the parent then follows up on the scliool of their, choice then the graduates in charge will work with the Principal of the school and process the application. 
Louisville 
The Xotre Dame Club of Kentucky had its first Family Communion and Breakfast Sunday, Septem­ber 24, and was attended by 94 members and their families. 
Our Football Trips to the Xorth Carolina and Michigan State Games were successful due to the untiring efforts of Chairman Pierre Angenueter. 
Jack Doeghert>- reports that the plans for our Christmas Dance, December 29, arc in the advance stages and a large turnout is expected from bo'.h the Xotre Dame Alumni and friends. 
LacSo MimiaiB, '33, has been elected treasurer of the Xotre Dame Alumni Club of Mexico City. At a dinner meeting in the University Club last month the new group established a permanent dub treasury and discussed plans for closer coordination in the future with the stateside ND Alumni or­ganization. 
Rafid AMuciB and Rafael Gomez ivere named co-chairmen for the club's next dinner meeting on December 6. 
Pedn> Tdmo ds Laodero, president of the Mex­ico City club, has submitted a list of more than 100 Notre Dame alumni in the Republic of Mexico to Alumni Headquarters at the UUnivcrsity. The list will be used to bring ADUMXUS mailing Addresses up to date and to encourage other XD alumni clubs in Mexico. The Mexico City club is only three months old. 
Miami 
The finest meeting of this year was held at the last regular monthly meeting of the Alumni Club. ^proximately sixty persons were in attendance, inclusive of the wives and lady friends, for this very successful affair. Hugh McManigal, '29. Pro­gram Chairman, must be complimented ver>- highly for the splendid arrangements and extraordinary entertaining program. 
One of the highlights of the afTair was the at­tendance of Coach Andy Gustafson and his lovely wife, Mrs. "Mandy" Gustafson. "Gus" spoke briefly on his personal hopes for a scheduled game between the L^niversity of Miami and the Univer­sity of Xotre Dame. In addition, he expressed the hope that someday the University of Miami may create and instill a spirit at the University of Miami that has been prc\-alent for so many years at our .Alma ^fater. 
He expressed the thought that people all over the nation have become synthetic alumni to Xotre Dame because of this pre^'alcnt and overpowering spirit so hard to describe. It was generally agreed that **Gus" was a regular guy. You can't say an)thing that could be much more complimentary. The Alumni Club \%-ished him and his team an un­defeated season and promised to thro%v their weight behind the *Mong hoped for" game. 
Of additional and equal interest to the many attending, were the movies of the 1949 Xotrc Damc-SMU game and Mac's running sideline com'mentar\­on the cleat film. Those of us who did not have the pleasure of seeing the game realized, for the first time, what a tremendous battle this game ^vas and what a thrill it must have been to watch. 
Chairman for the next meeting will be Walt Rowlands who has promised to arrange for the ap­pearance of Jack Cummings of Television Station \VTVJ. Additional entertainment will be offered and all alumni will be advised by special notice prior to the meeting. The next meeting will again be held at the San Juan Restaurant. It is gen­erally agreed that the San Juan is one fine place to meet and eat. 
We don't know what happened to the Fort Lauderdale bo>-s. The>- didn't show. MacManigle extended a personal invitation to Bob Gore, '31. PresideBt Cowart, '34, wrote twice to President Wlltcnson, *33, of the Lauderdale group, but re­ceived no reply. We sincerely hope that nothing occurred of serious import. I£ any of you fellows get around the "Dale" stop in and check with the fellows up North. 
Xo word has been received, since their recent dcpartture, from Major Jules Bcrdk, *40, or Cap­tain Hank Ked, '47. Wc hope that they are in the best of health and that they will find time to drop the Club a line real soon. 
Mohawk Valley 
We had our raffle last Sunday for the Xa\y­game and as usual a most worthy individual won the $100 plus the two tickets. We have had a rafBe for three years now and each year an indi> vidual has won who is more than in need of money. 
Many of the club members attended the K. of C. Communion breakfast held-last Sunday and marched in the parade to demonstrate that we are alt against Communism. Ted Reagan, Don Fullcm> Ed Noonan, Frank Hackctt, Ed Sweeney, V ^ Fletcher, Mike McGuir], and Ray Belden were among those present. 
Hear regularly from Hu ^ Glancy who is now located at Charlotts\-iIle, Va., doing time study 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
for Frank Iz and Cu.; John Rush is now* with the Labor Board working out of Syracuse; Ray Belden has just been appointed to the Social Security Board and has left for schooling at Baltimore; George Richter has associated himself in the ac­counting business with Ray Hall, a prominent CPA. 
At our last meeting Bob Purcell, '46, came to the meeting. He is a Civil Engineer here supcr^'is­ing the construction of a new State Hospital Medi­cal wing; John Cauley, *46, was recently inducted into the Army; Frank Donalty, '32, who leaves soon for Macon, Ga., has been recalled with the rank of Lieutenant Commander. 

\Vc have had our first meeting relative to the formation of an association of all Catholic Alumni in this city. Our Bishop Forcy of Syracuse, is hack of the movement and has designated Father Ray Loftus, Niagara, by the way, to be moderator. We are just starting and have to lay the ground­work before we can progress further. 
We are sponsoring a Christmas dance to be held in Hotel Hamilton right after Christmas, this is in conjunction with the undergraduates who will be home at that time. Mike McGuirl, Jr., is Chair­man, Jack 0*Rourkc assisting. 
We listen to the games each Saturday and win, lose or draw we still have the finest and the fight­ingtst team in the nation. We're mighty proud of them and back them 100 per cent. 

New York City 
Ten minutes before this bit of prose went into the machine, telephone call number 1,984,398,683 came in. and the same "Docs Notre Dame play in New York this year?" came out of the receiver. And for probably the same number of times my secretary said she was going to quit and go back to her people in Upper ^fongoh'a. She's pretty condescending though, and promises to stay on PROVIDED—the Irish return to New York next year and she doesn't have to answer the phone so much. Note to Moose Kmusc: Good secretaries are hard to find!!! 
Despite the iacetiousness above, and the fact that there isn't a game here this year. Club ac­tivities are in full sxving once more. The first meeting of the Fall season, held at our meeting headquarters, the Biltmore Hotel, brought about enough laughs and tiandshakcs to last us q\nle awhile. And no other speaker to our way of thinking could bring that about but 'Professor' J.ACK LAVELLE. Repetition Just doesn't seem to exist in Jack's repertoire of great football stories which brought chuckles from the old and the young alumnus. Approximately 300 alumni and friends of Notre Dame Jammed the Cafe Rooms of the Biltmore that night and left three hours later ex­claiming they liopcd he'd be on hand soon again. 
October 28 put on its best weather for our an­nual ffwtball trip to the campus for the Michigan State game—and with the possible exception of the famous Army trip of '47—details went off smoothly and were enjoyed by all. Four cars of the New-York Central were put on the tracks and shoved off—off to a good week-end despite the score. For those who weren't able to make the trip from this area—ask the man who did, and start saving for next year's Jaunt. 

October's monthly meeting on the 25th favored us with the return of Father Joseph English, M.M., '37 and Director of the MaryknoU Mission here in New York. Those who experienced Father's wonderful talk and film showing a few months back again enjoyed a new film and talk entitled "Kyoto Saturday Afternoon." If not better than the famous *'Bluc Cloud Country*" we saw last Spring then it is equally as profitable and informative. Any alumni group within calling distance of a Mar>*knoll Mis­sioner can do no wrong in asking to have either or both of these films sent for a meeting. This meeting w*as also highlighted by the acceptance of Father Howard Kcnna, C.S.C., to become our official Chaplain. Father Kenna replaces Father Louis Kelley, former Assistant Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Behind the scenes activity is centered around Chairman Ed Beckman these days. Ed and his committee are undertaking a comprehensive and highly professional placement service for the Club and specific details wilt be forthcoming shortly for those interested. Starting November 9 and finish­ing December 21, career clinics and forums will be held every Thursday night. This free place­ment ser«cc is divided into three sections, but all ^v-orking together: Registration is under Jack Hoyt; job counseling by Jordan Hai^rovc and weekly forums under the guidance of Bill Hughes. The Board of Governors Iicrc in New York has appropriate funds for this highly important project and members are asked to support it with all pos­sible effort. It is important to note that the pro­gram is designed both for those who are seeking employment and for those who wish to impro\*c their careers. More about this as it develops. 
Any activity or chairmanship turned over to Herb Giorgio is regarded as complete and suc* cessful at the outset—and our Communion Breakfast on December 10 at the Biltmore this year is well on its way for that very reason. Herb has ar­ranged for the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Mur­phy,, to speak to us that day as well as Father Keller of the Christopher Movement fame. Father Christophcr OToole, Superior General of the Con­gregation has favored us with his acceptance and wc look forward to the Mass at St. Patrick's Ca­thedral and the meeting—but that's for another issue. 
Northern California 
Two important events found their way into the Northern California Alumni Club's fall calendar. One is the deluxe special football tour to the ND­USC game at Los Angeles, December 3. The other, the Communion Breakfast on Sunday, December 10. 
This year, straying somewhat from tradition, the club decided to hold three separate communion breakfasts in the bay area for the con%'eiuence of the members. They are to be held in San Fran­cisco, Oakland and on the Peninsula. Committee chairmen arc Paul Gushing, Joe Bush and D»n Miller. 
Preliminary discussions got under way at a re­cent officers and directors meeting at P^ul Cushing*s Iiomc pertaining to the alumni dinner coming up the latter part of December in honor of Notre Dame participants in the Shriners' East-West foot­ball game. "Slip" Madtgan was placed in charge of arrangements. It was decided to encourage as many sons as possible to attend the proposed dinner. 
All members will be notified by mail as soon as arrangements have been completed^ Bob Tani'er, working on the membership committee, announced that all club members who have not been receiving mailing notices, who have moved to new addresses, or who know of any alumnus not on the mailing list, should notify him at 800 N. El Camino Real, Burlingame. A drive is undcr\vay to complete the listing of club members as accurately as possible. 
Northern New York 
The Annual Banquet and election of officers was held at the Malonc Country* Club on the evening of October 11. The meeting in April was post­poned due to the bad weather conditions. Clyde A. Lewis, Plattsburs attorney and former Natioaal CommaDdcr of the Veterans of Foreiga Wars, was the princqul speaker. The arrangements were made by MitcMl Tadtlcr of Malone. 
President of the Club, Kcv. Dnaald GaH^fcrr, c^ned the meeting and then turned the diair over to Joscpli IL Bfaady, of Ogdensbuxg, Class of '21. Following the main qieecfa a business seuaoa was 
' held. Fraak Hurler presented the annual finanrfM report. 
A motion was made and unanimously passed, that all members pay annual dues. The nominatiag committee, consisting of C J. Carzy, Mftc*wP TacUey and Fiaak Hariey. proposed the names of Joseph R. Braady for President, Leo CaatwcO tA Lake Placid and JasKs Bnordeaa of Plattsburg as Vice-Presidents and Joki DxnaccB of Massena as Secretary-Treasurer. 
The high point of the meeting was the naming of Hon. Cantons J. Carey of Malone as the Club's Notre Dame Man of 1950. 
Oregon 
&fany Oregon Irish are heading for Los Angeles for the Southern Cal game. Some of the stay-at­homes will grotq> together radio-side to cheer the 
team to a victorious finale of the sea:on. 
The following week-end will see the Club gath­ered at the Annual Universal Communion and Breakfast at University of Portland. Gene Bfinpkr, '20, and Fete Saadnxlt, '39, arc co-chairmen. Attendance at this expression of the real ND spirit has been growing the last few years and Gene and Pete promise a record4ireaking turnout. 
Justin Moran, '54, wanned our hearts recently with his report to "The Oregonian" sports p^ e of the way the present students reacted to the Purdue defeat. Made some of us remember early monung parades to welcome Rock's four-times-beatrn '28ers (getting along there, Magee!) 
M<Nnrie Con%iray, '14, is going to have a doctor in the house. His charming eldest daughter, Carita, chief dietician at Providence Hoqiital here, is to marry Dr. George Corti. Morrie will be well practiced in his giving-away role by the time his fifth daughter leaves home. Maybe wc will see Morrie Jr. '54 if he gets home. 
Tom Trixler^ '47, has transferred his Knights of Columbus membership to Portland Council 678 and we hope to see him at frequent meetings. Qmte a few of the gang belong to the Knights but are not too often on deck. 
Pete Trixler, '48, carries that broad smile for his first, Theresa Suzanne, who arrived October 9. 
A Pennant in Peru for a New Alumni Club 
Meeting at the home of Eric Rey de Castro, tlis group organbed the fint active Ahmun Club in South America. A bu»ness meeting was held bter at the Salndo Countiy Chbi. 
NoyembeT'December, 1950 
Congratulations, Pete and Norma! Many happy returns! As wc go to press, the Club is saddened to Icam of- the death of Gene Schmitt, '20 (brohter of Dis­trict Governor Bill Scfamitt, *I0), on November 6 of he«u*t disease. Although ill occasionally. Gene was on the job until a few days before his passing. \Vc shall miss his \*-arm, unassuming friendliness. Our condolences go to the family. R.I.P. 
Peru 
Another country in South America heard from! 
This time Peru comes through ^^•ith an organized .Alumni Club, listing 49 members. Organizers named are: 
Hector Key de Castro, Bill Crosby, Carlos Perez Fontcuberta, Andres B. Mabtcsa, Luis B. Rivera, John mnsdia, Eric Key de Castro, Enrique R. Lulli, Arthur Kirby, and Noel Pallais y Gulliermo Dcnegri. 
First meeting was held in the home of Eric Rey de Castro, and the club met again in the Sabado Country Club for a full business meeting. 
Philodelphia 
The Philadelphia Club has been quite active this Fall and here is a brief summary of happcninss past and to come. 
Our Annual Football Dra^ring, under the direc­tion of Jack Dcmpsey, was a great success. Our members and friends arc to be congratulated for the wonderful job they did this year. 
On Tuesday, October 24, the night of the drau-­ing wc had an unexpected but most enjoyable pro­gram. Before the actual drawing Father Haggerty, who ^vas in town ^Tsiting his sister, had a few words to say. 
Then Ed Hunsinger, end on the famous Seven }bfules and Four Horsemen team, told us of his football experiences. To add to this interesting program James Metcalf, whose poetry appears in leading ne\%'spapers throughout the country, read some of his poems and told of some of his experi­ences when he was a member of tlie F.B.I. 
In addition to this we had morics of this season's North Carolina, Purdue and Indiana football games. AI Leonard, a friend, has been most kind in mak­ing these mories a^'ailablc. Our own club film of the 1949 highlights was also shown to complete this full program. 

Rev. Charics J. Mahoney, C.S.C., was trans­ferred to Kings College where he assumes the duties of Prefect of Religion and Head of the De­partment of Religion. Our officers and members all ^%^h Father Mahoney lots of success with his new appointment. 
Wc welcome Re^*. Thomas DufTy, C.S.C., to Philadelphia. Dan Young has our club directory* in final form and ready for the printer. 
The next big date on our calendar is the Annual Communion Breakfast on Sunday, December 10. Dan Young, our chairman, has almost completed the program and we are looking for and expecting one of the big events of 1950 for our club. 
Later in December, Friday, the 29th, to be exact, we vrHl have our Christmas Party at the Bala 
. Country Club. This will gjve the boys on campus and our members a chance to spend a iew enjoy­able holiday hours together. 
Saginaw 
The Saginaw^ Valley Notre Dame Club sponsored a Food)all excursion for the Michigan State game, and we are happy to report it a very successful undertaking. Everyone had a wonderful time, and Notre Dame gained some valuable publicity in the S^inaw area. The Saginaw NCA%-S was \-ery co­operative, and they also gave us an excellent write­up. Even more important, local public reaction was \*ery fararable to Notre Dame, with even the most ardent Michigan State people commenting on the terrific spirit displayed at Notre Dame. They had never seen anything like it. 
Our Board of Directors voted to turn the profits of the excursion over to the Notre Dame Founda­tion. The success of this venture was insured through the coc^icration of the Department of Athletics, and we feel this is one way of express­ing our gratitude. I also wish to thank Afr, 
Herbert E. Jones and Mr. M. Robert CahOI for their asustance. 
Our annual football banquet, honoring the Sagi­naw Valley Parochial League Champion, is sched­uled for sometime early In December. Last year we entertained some sue hundred people, and hc^ie 
we equal or exceed that figure this year. Plans" 
arc now underway to procure several speakers from 
the 1950 Football squad, as well as a coach. 
Our annual Communion Breakfast will be held 
at St. Joseph's Church in Bay City, Mich., to be 
followed by a short meeting. 
A report on these two latter events in the next 
issue of the Alumnus. 

Schenectady 
An enjoyable evening was had by all that attended 
our FATHER'S NIGHT program September 26. 
This was the first event of this kind in our club 
and it was a huge success. Charles Flanigan was 
chairman and directed the fine program. The 

Notre Dame Ston* and Football Highlights of '49 
mories were shown. A buffet supper followed the 
entertainment. President AVUUam G. Leonard, Jr., 
spoke in behalf of the club in welcoming the 
fathers. As well as being honored with the pres­

ence of 10 Notre Dame fathers, we were also 
honored to have with us as guests four Holy Cross 

Brothers from Vincentian Institute in Albany; Rev. 
John J. Finn, V.F., former national President of 
Holy Cross College Alumni Assoc; and Rev. Wil­
fred Chamberland, director of Catholic Charities in 
Schenectady, Alumni attending were as follows: 
W^liam Leonard, Jr., Robert E. Eckel, Thomas 
Brostol, >N^Iiam Ekwyer, Frank Llnehan, George 
Biittner, Jr., Charles Welsh, Ernest Scorer, Gcoi^e 
Kirstcl, John Mcehan, ^VilUam Finch, John Peters, 
Thomas AIcAllister, Warren Schultz, Thomas How­
ley, Charics Flanigan, Brothers Mardan. Bertram 
Jogues and John, C.S.C.'s; Daniel J. Rourke, M.D.; 
John B. Phillips, M.D.; Raymond Zasada, and 
Daniel Barlow. (Notre Dame fathers present are 
shown in photo). 
\\llliam P. Findi, *49, with the F.B.I, in Wash­

ington, was w^th us at this affair. Bill reported to 
active duty with the Marine Corps, Quantico, 
Virginia, October 4. 
A business meeting will be held November 14 at 

the Knights of Columbus home. A drawing for 
an autographed football and a monogrammcd Notre 
Dame blanket will be held on this evening also. 
The club officers and committeemen are busying 

themselves with two oncoming events. The first, 
our annual corporate communion and Communion 
Breakfast, Sunday, December 10. This has always 
proved to be one of the largest attended affairs 
of the club and the committee this year Is making 
every effort to keep this fine record intact. The 
second event, our annual Holiday dance. This will 
he held Friday, December 28 at the Locomotive 
Club. The committee is working very earnestly 
with the hope that this will be an outstanding 
success. A large turnout of alumni and students 
is anticipated. 
That about completes the news of Notre Dame men from the *Clty that lights and hauls the 
Worid.' 
Toledo 
Popular with Notre Dame Alumni Club members in Toledo last fall and spring, the luncheon meet­ing program has been a success again this football season. Bob Timmennan is chairman of the com­mittee which whips up a tasty lunch, an interest­ing speaker and an hour of good felIou*ship once every other week. 
Plans for the Notre Dame Christmas dance arc taking shape at a rapid pace. This year's affair will be held in the grand ballroom of the Commf>­dorc Perry hotel, on Friday, Dec. 29, with Russ Carlyle*s band slated to provide music Don Hum­mer is chairman of the general committee, with able assistance coming from other club ofiicers and board members. 
Nearly a dozen Notre Dame men made a three-day T'ctreat at the well-known Jesuit retreat house in Detroit the week-end of November 3. Notre Darner Bill Syring arranged the trip to ^fanresa. 
Dads of ND alumni will be made associate mem­bers of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, according to club president Jad^ Sokm. The dads will re­ceive special membership cards and have their names listed in the club*s forthcoming directory. 
Tri-Cities 
The local club feels that the drawing held at the club smoker in October proved to be a worth­while project. Jim McCabe was the lucky winner of the second prize and received the lou-a-Notre 
Dame tickets as well as the $18 in cash. 
The Bam Dance-Box Lunch affair which was held 

recently in Davenport provided those who attended 
a qilendid evening of entertainment, as sqjproxi­
mately 20 couples were able to vouch. Prizes were 
awarded to the following: Best square dancers, the 
Daa Keden and BOl Walshes; best caller, Ralph 
Corya; loudest caller, Frank McGnire; provided of 
the prettiest box lunch, Mrs. Frank Thnl. Mesdames 
Robert Real, Cam Bradte and Frank McGuire 
were on the committee. 
One of the local dub members returned to Na­tional Fame with his article In a November issue of the Saturday E\*ening Post. We feel confident that Notre Dame men throughout the country en­joyed Lany <*Mooa** Mnllins' article "I like Small-Time Coaching.*' Moon, assisted by George Stroh­meycr, is doing a TERRIFIC job of coaching at St. Ambrose College in Davenport. He was forced to schedule 13 games this season—five of them coming within 15 days at the start of the season. His team won those five and all but one of the remaining games. Afoon also provides the Grid Club, sponsored by the Davenport Knights of Co­lumbus, with a short, entertaining talk each Mon­day noon throughout the football season. 
EnuDctt Keenan attended Bill Pbelan's Avedding 

in South Bend late in October and returned to the 
Tri-Cities with the hot dope on the football team 
after spending the week-end with Paul Neville, 
Sports Editor of the South Bend Tribune. 
The club, tmder the direction of Henry Wurzer, 

Jerry Amt^ , Ralph Coryn, Ed Kfea^er, and 
Vinccat Goolet, sponsored some of the televised 
Notre Dame games at the three major hotels in the 
area. This project was set up In connection ^vith 
the Unn'erslty*s foundation drive after Father John 
Mnrphr's visit to the area. 
The club feels honored to announce that one of its members, John Welsh, has entered St. Paul Seminary at St. Paul, Minnesota. 
MTS. Jon Doyle and Mrs. Al Erskine were host­esses for the wives' November luncheon meeting. 
Virginia 
The followins men haV6 been elected the new 

oflScers of the Xotrc Daroe Club of Virsinia; 
President: Charles M. \fonison, '38; Vice-Presi­dent: C. K. Hulchens, Jr., *40; Secretary-Treasurer: Thomas C. Buriw, *49; and the follou-ing trustees: Joseph D. FScdmont, '40; S. Tahnadge Powell, 'SO; Fbud M. Morrison, '40. 
They succeed Dr. Charles R. Rilcy, Paul M. Moniaoii, Robert A. Sheppard, and the two trus­tees, C. K. Hntdiens, Jr., and Fiands J. Stumpf. 
Washington, D. C. 
Club President Tom Flymi, '35, announced this 

month the Club program for the coming year and 
here is what it looks like: 
(Note to Alumni Tourists; any of you who are in the Capital at the time of any of these events are more than welcome to join the club in these activities, for they are events at which any Notre Oame man feels at home). 
REUGIOUS ACl'lVriTES 
Ann I Retreat at Holy Cross College June 16-18. 

Uoivcfial Notre Dame Commtmion Breakfast on the Sunday nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception (Dec 8) or any other Sunday desig­nated by the Universtiy. 
Kockae Memorial CommomoB Breakfast—a fam­ily Communion—on the Sunday nearest Rockne's death (March 31). 
SOCIAL ACnVlTIES 

Jo K Dance sometime after the school term, to honor returning students. Christmas Dance during the holidays for vaca­tioning students. 
Univcnal Notre Dame Night (actually in a category by itself but listed here because the wives always come) at a date designated by the Univer­sity. 
FUND RAISING ACTIVITIES Participation as individuals in the Foundation Drive and as Club members in an effort to make a Club gift to the Fcrandation. Benefit for the Michigan Sute Game to supple­ment Club Dues. 
OTHER AC'l'IVITIES 
Represenution on Catholic Alumni Council. 
Great Books Seminar sponsorship. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Notre Dame Reading List 
DEPARTMEBTT 
IJniversiiy of Motre Dame 
This reading list has been prepared by the Depart­ment of Religion at the University, and is presented by the Alumni Association as a service of intellectual and cultural value to alumni, students and friends of the University. The list will be supplemented from time to time. 
Effective leadership demands deep thinking as its foundation, and everyone should know that deep thoughts are nourished on the ideas found in good books. And since Notre Dame wants to see effective leadership in her family, the Department of Religion and the Alumni Asso­ciation hope that those who see this list will not simply pass it over or file it away, but will check it closely and begin reading. The books are classified, and each book is briefly described, so that every reader may follow his own bent and taste. 
GROUP I 

THE TRUTH, THE WAY AND THE LIFE 
Reverend Aloys Diiksen, C.P.P.S. 
The great study is the study of Christ, and the only knowl­edge of Christ—^not merely a head knowledge, but a heart knowledge, the kno\yledge of love. To know Jesus Christ as He was on earth. His person. His teachings, His deeds; to know Him as He is today in our lives: He is our Head, we His members, sharing His divine life through sanctifying grace. 
1.
 THE LIFE OF CHRIST, by Isidore O'Brien, O.F.M., St. Anthony Guild Press, Paterson, N. J., pries: paper, $1.00; cloth, $2.50; pp. xv-540. 19 chapters, index, 3 maps. Each chap­ter has references and a series of questions for study. 

The whole work is sound and yet not too technical, Moral applications are not lacking. 

2.
 THE LIFE OF JESUS CHRIST IN THE LAND OF ISRAEL AND AMONG I,TS PEOPLE, by Franz Michel WU­1am, B. Herder Book Co., $4.00. Edited by Rev. Newton Thomp­son, S.T.D., the book has passed through at least four or more editions, pp. 488—index—^1 map—19 chapters. 


Special feature is the many short but complete discussions 
 OF REUGIOM 
- Notre Daaiey ladiaaa 
Many of these books are to be found in public libraries, or will be ordered for public libraries on request. Again, in many cities there exist Catholic book shops, often struggling organizations of zealous apostolic pur­pose; a little business would help these institutions con­siderably. Finally, every book on the list may be ordered from the Notre Dame Bookstore, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The Department of Religion and the Alumni Associa­tion will be glad to receive comments, suggestions, criti­cisms, regarding this service, and to offer suggestions, plans and reading programs. The list was edited by Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C, of the Department of Religion, with the help of many faculty members, both priests and laymen, whose names appear along with their contri­butions. 
on things related to N.T. times. Scholarly, yet withal adapted to the average teacher. More advanced than O'Brien and better organized than Ricciotti. 
3.
 THE LIFE OF CHRIST, by Gniseppe Ricdotti; Bruce Publishing Co. (1947), $7.50. pp. xvi-700—26 chapters—index— a good number of modem lUnstratiTe photographs. 

Extensive and even a bit verbose, Scholarly yet not too technical. 

4.
 THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST, by Rev. M. J. La-Grange. Bums, Oates and Washbonme publishes this study in a single volume now at the price of $2.55. 


In this one volume there is an intensive and scholarly study of the life of Christ, as related in the Gospels. This is an ex­cellent book for those who desire a deep study of Christ. 
5. THE LIFE OF CHRIST, by Rev. L. C. Fillion, as. B is published by Herder Book Company, and comes in three volumes. Each volume costs $5.00. 
Although this work is very extoisive, it also reflects an intensive and scholarly love for Christ. Its well written pages intimately tell us of Christ. 
6. ENJOYING THE NEW TESTAMENT, by Margaret 
T. Munro, Longmans, Green and Co., $2.50. Foreword by the 
Page One 

eminent English scholar Eev. Cuthbert Lattey, s.J. pp. xviii­204; index and 4 appendices, 1 map. 
The work arranges the reading of the entire N.T. into 21 weeks. In each section there is a brief analysis; and the reader is directed concerning things to look for in his reading. 
7. A COMMENTARY ON THE NEW TESTAMENT, pre­pared by the Catholic Biblical Association under the patronage of the Episcopal Committee of the Confraternity of Christian Doctrine in 1942; published by the Catholic Biblical Association, and printed by William H. Sadlier, Inc. pp. viii-728. A Com­mentary on the entire N.T.—^Index of Scripture texts—Addi­tional reading and a Glossary of Terms and Names. 
GROUP II 
THE SPIRITUAL LIFE 

Reverend Thomas Irving, C.S.C. Reverend William Robinson, C.S.C. 
A very short grouping, but there are many, many others which will be described on anyone's request. Tanquerey's is a manual of spirituality, and contains a large number of refer­ences to other works. Chautard's is a masterpiece on the in­terior life for persons engaged in apostolic work—both priests and lay leaders. 
1. THE IMITATION OF CHRIST, by Thomas a Kempis; Oxford, $1.45; Harper, $3.50; pocket ed. ea. ?1.50. 
Also published under the title The Following of Christ. Both are available in many editions and bindings. A spiritual "must," warm and human in its deep wisdom and insight; ranked by many as second only to the Bible. 
2. THE SPIRITUAL COMBAT, by D. La^vrence Scupoli; Publisher P. Reilly, $2.00. 
Concise chapters of common sense in a sparkling, readable new translation make this three-century-old classic an under­standing and inspiring blueprint for the foundations of sanctity to be laid and built upon by generous souls. 
3. TRUE DEVOTION TO THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY, by Louis Marie Grignon de Montfort; The Montfort Fathers, 26 Savan Avenue, Bayshore, N. Y. $1.00; paper $.50. 
Endorsed and praised by six popes, this power-packed manual offers a new, true and sure method of realizing the vital part played by Mary in our Redemption. In it the recently canonized author shows how all can correspond more fully with the graces offered m«i through the great intercession of the Blessed Virgin. 
4. THE SPIRITUAL LIFE, by A. Tanquerey; Newman, Md., $4.50. 
Clear, concise and complete, this manual and handbook of the realm of the soul stands out as one of the great spiritual works of all time. With not a word wasted, this detailed book contains outlines, explanations and guides for those who desire to push beyond minimum requirements to attain a higher degree of holiness. 
5. PROGRESS THROUGH MENTAL PRAYER and other works of Edward Leen, C.S.SP. Sheed, $3.00. 
The author is recognized as one of our most powerful spir­itual writers. Discerning and challenging, the book opens 
Page Two up new ways to sanctity by its spotlighting little known and obscure truths in the following of Christ in prayer. 

6. THE SOUL OF THE APOSTOLATE, by Jean Baptist Chautard; For sale by Catholic Book Supply House, Richmond, N. Y., $1.25; paper, $1.00; Deluxe, $2.50. 
Although predominantly for priests and religious, its sound psychology can be applied to many other vocational states of life. The necessity of prayer is the soul of any apostolate and for those who offer their work to God, g^reat graces can be gained, for "To work is to Pray." 
7. INTRODUCTION TO A DEVOUT LIFE by St. Francis DeSales (1899); Newman, $2.50; paper, $1.25. 
These directives for beginners are written by one of the greatest spiritual guides in the history of the Church. Patiently and imderstandingly written, this modem and up-to-the-minute classic offers a knowledge of human nature that many present day psychologists have missed. For inspiration as well as di­rection, few better books have ever been written. 
8. INTERIOR LIFE SIMPLIFIED AND REDUCED TO ITS FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE, ed. by Joseph Tissot; Benziger, (1913), $1.75. 
An enlightening explanation and unfolding of its meaning; aids and hindrances to its attainment and the deep satisfying joy in its unexplored truths and wisdom. Inspiring and well-written, it is an excellent explanation of the vital need for aU to cultivate the all too often neglected spiritual side of our nature. 
9. DIFFICULTIES in MENTAL PRAYER, by Rev. Eugene M. Boylan; Newman, Md., $1.75. 
Despite a misleading title this down-to-earth discussion of prayer as it really is and should be, explains away with warmth and wit the vagueness and misunderstandings too often held concerning prayer. The Irish monk gently steers the reader encouragingly towards the great experiences that lie in store for the soul as it increases its power of conversing with God. 
10. PRAYER FOR ALL TIMES (3 Vol.), by Pierre Charles, S.J.; Kenedy (1942), $1.75. 
Intimate and thought-provoking. New aspects on growth in holiness are presented in these prayers for all occasions that illumine the way to a closer union with God by prayer. 
11. GOD WITHIN US and other works by Raoul Plus, s.J. (1926); Bums, London, 8s.6d. 
Many of us miss the discovery of the inner life in our pre­occupation with earthly things. This work of the renowned spiritual writer, helps us to enter ourselves to discover and develop those inner powers that urge us towards a higher level in our union with God. 
12. YES, FATHER by Graef, Richard, Pustet (1939), $2.50. 
Dogmatic and doctrinal, it emphasizes a sound psychology throughout. The deep faith of the author is very evident throughout the book. Although meant for those in the service of God, it contains many sidelights on the priesthood that hold interest for all readers. 
13. KINDNESS, by Rev. Fred W. Faber (and other works by). 
Father Faber's works are renowned for their insight into matters spirituaL His ability to connect spirituality with everyday actions, and to show clearly their relationships, make his works worthwhile reading for all. 
GROUP III 

EVIDENCE FOR OUR FAITH 
Reverend Joseph Cavanaugh, C.S.C. 
This is another brief listing of books concerned with the foundations in reason for Christian belief. Apologetics uses reason to discover that God exists; and that Christ the God-man was sent to establish the life-giving Church. 
1. ORTHODOXY by G. K. Chesterton; Dodd, $2.75. In Orthodoxy Chesterton cleverly refutes several modem philosophies as he states in paradoxical fashion the reasons 
why he became a Catholic. If a person has some knowledge of modem philosophy, this book is most interesting and worthwhile. 
2. THE QUESTION BOX by B. Conway; Paulist Press (1929), $1.00; paper, $.50; DeLuxe, $2.50. 
In this book. Father Conway answers in a brief and popular manner the most important questions that he was asked during many missions to non-Catholics. His purpose is to interest readers in a further study of the Church's claim by correcting many of their false notions. 
3. THE BELIEF OF CATHOLICS by Ronald A. Knox; Sheed, $1.00. 
The Belief of Catholics is a splendid work written primarily for learned non-Catholics who wish to know the reasons why Catholics believe as they do. Most Catholics will find it enjoy­able and profitable. 
4. MIRACLES by C. S. Le\vis; Macmillan (1947), $2.50. 
C. S. Lewis thinks most people object to miracles because they seem to be unfitting. They think God should not intervene in the natural order. In this work, Lewis endeavors to show the fittingness of the Gospel miracles. Like Chesterton, Lewis has a gift for putting old truths in a startling new way. 
5. THE THIRD DAY: DEFENSE OF THE RESURREC­TION by Arnold Lunn; Ne^vman, $2.75. 
In The Third Day Arnold Lunn studies the value of the Gospels as historical documents, the facts about the resurrec­tion, and the so-called explanations of those facts. As he pro­ceeds, Mr. Lunn presents cogently the arguments that led him to believe in the resurrection of our Lord. 
6. FAITH OF OUR FATHERS by Cardinal James Gib­bons; National Headquarters of the Holy Name Society (1929). 
Faith of Our Fathers contains the instructions Cardinal Gibbons gave as a young bishop in North Carolina. It is a simple, straightforward presentation of the important truths of the Catholic Faith without any note of controversy. 
7. REBUILDING A LOST FAITH by John L. Stoddard; Kenedy, (1923). 
Rebuilding a Lost Faith is the autobiography of John L. Stoddard who was an agnostic for forty years. As he tells his story, Stoddard explains the motives, influences, and arguments that led to his conversion. Most people find this book as in­structive as it is interesting. 
8. THE GOSPELS by John Peter Arendzen; Herder (1923), $1.50. 
A volume of essays concerned with the credibility and the historical setting of the Gospels. After Arendzen proves the Gospels are worthy of belief, he gives a good deal of interesting information about New Testament times. The book will help the average reader understand the Gospels better. 
GROUP IV 
MATTERS FOR BELIEF 
Reveieiid diaries Sbctdy, CS.C. 
Our religion is not only contained in the Gospds, bnt aljo in the teachings of the Catholic Chnrch. This tradition reaches back to the time of the Apostles. It is writings of the "Fath­ers" such as St. Athanasius, St. Gregory the Great, and St. Jerome. It is also carefully brought out in the teaching of the Councils, the Popes, and the Theologians. 
1. SPIRIT OF CATHOLICISM translated by MeCann, by 
Karl Adam; Macmillan, $3.00. A modem treatise on the deep spiritual meaning of the Church viewed as Mystical Body of Christ and as the Coiii­munion of Saints. 
2. THE MEANING OF THE MASS by Paul Bussard; Kenedy, $2.25. 
Perhaps this is the best simple introduction to the study of the Mass f oP the non-specialist reader. 
3. THE MYSTICAL CHRIST by Gmden; Herder (1936), 
$3.25. A very fine book about the Mystical Body. 
4. A COMPANION TO THE SUMHA by Walter Far­
rell, O.P., 4 Vol.; Sheed, $4.00. A well-done popularization of the great work of St. Thomas following the order of the Summa and transferring its subject matter to current idiom. 
5. THE CHURCH AND THE CATHOUC by Romano Guardini; Sheed (1940), $1.00; paper, $.50. 
An excellent study of the meaning of the Chnrch to the be­liever. In the same volume is an essay on the Spirit of the Liturgy. 
6. CHRIST THE UF E OF THE SOUL AND CHRIST IN HIS MYSTERIES by Columba Marmion, o.sj.; Sands (1925). 
Two very profound studies of Christ in His relation to the soul and on the liturgy of the Church as a continuation of Christ's earthly life worked out i)erpetnally in His members. 
7. THE LITURGY OF THE CHURCH by Virgil George 
Michel; Macmillan (1937), $2.50. A one-volume exposition of Catholic public worship. 
8.
 THE GRAMMAR OF ASSENT by Cardinal John H. Newman; Longmans, $3.50. 

A profound essay on the meaning of Faith by the great English convert. 

9.
 THE MYSTICAL BODY OF CHRIST by Pius XH, En­cyclical; National Catholic Welfare Council, Washington, D. C. (1943); paper, $10. 


The contemporaneous official teaching on this important subject. 
10. THE MYSTERIES OF CHRISTIANITY by M. Sehee­ben; Herder (1946), $7.50. 
A very profound and deep study of Catholic Dogma by a great German of the 19th Century, perhaps the greatest com­municator of Theology in modem times. 
11. THE MAP OF LIFE by Frank J. Sheed; Sheed, $1.50. 
Pagclliicc 

A little book hardly larger than a pamphlet but containing an excellent survey of the substance of the Faith. 
12. THEOLOGY AND SANITY by Frank J. Sheed; Sheed, ?3.00. 
This book is perhaps the most readable and practical sur­vey of Catholic doctrine for the educated lay reader. 
13. THE TEACHING OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH by George D. Smith; 2 Vol.; Macmillan, ?12.50. 
A series of essays written by leading English theologians covering systematically the entire field of Catholic teaching. Formerly in many little volumes in the Treasury of the Faith series. 
GROUP V 

THOMISTIC PHILOSOPHY 
Reverend Leo R. Ward, CS.C. 
This brief list is not an attempt at a systematic coverage of the field of Catholic philosophy; but rather it points out some of the more prominent books in this field. 
1. THE MIND AND HEART OF LOVE by Martin D'Arcy, S.J.; NY Holt (1947), $4.00. 
This book, although non-technical in terminology, has an eloquence which will inspire. 
2.
 ENQUIRIES INTO RELIGION AND CULTURE by Christopher Dawson,' NY Sheed (1938), $1.00; paper, $.50. 

In this book we find the correlation between religion and culture in general and in some particular matters. 

3.
 RELIGION AND CULTURE by Christopher Dawson; NY Sheed (1948), $3.50. 


The relations between religion and culture among primitives and at all levels of civilization and among all religions. 
4. THE SPIRIT OF MEDIAEVAL PHILOSOPHY by Etienne Gilson, NY Sheed (1939), $2.00. 
The best statement of what "Christian Philosophy" means, by a great teacher. 
5. ART AND SCHOLASTICISM by Jacques Maritain; Scribner, $3.75. 
Simple and profound lessons on the relations between the two practical intellectual virtues, "art" and "prudence." 
6. INTRODUCTION TO PHILOSOPHY by Jacques Mari­
tain; Sheed, $2.75. The best "introduction" to philosophy. 
7. THE RIGHTS OF MAN AND THE NATURAL LAW by Jacques Maritain; NY, Scribners, $2.00. 
The simplest of Maritain's works on ethics and social philosophy. 
8. TRUE HUMANISM by Jacques Maritain; NY Scrib­ners, $4.50. 
The most complete statement of Maritain's outline for a new Christian order, in relation to the main modem movements; difBcult; not well ordered. 
9. MODERN THOMISTIC PHILOSOPHY by R. P. Phil­lips; Newman, $7.50. ­
Page Four 

Comprehensive; a textbook, therefois somewhat dull and dead. 
10. FUNDAMENTALS OF THOMISTIC PHILOSOPHY by A. D. SertiUanges; S t Louis, Herder (1931), $1.35. 
Although the book is brief and simple in expression, it is comprehensive in its coverage of fundamentals. 
11. THE CATHOUC CENTBE by E. L Watkins; NY Sheed, ?3.00. 
In this text there are contained studies of some current prob­lems in relation to theology. 
12. THOMAS AQUINAS by Martin Grabmann; Trans­lated by Virgil Michel; N. Y., Longmans (1928). 
Perhaps the best one-volume introduction to the man and his works. 
13. SCIENCE AND COMMON SENSE by W. R. Thomp­son; Toronto, Longmans Green & Co. (1937), $3.00. 
In this book penned by an expert there is to be found vital information concerning the philosophy of science. It is a text which is sound; but yet not too difficult. 
GROUP VI 
THE CHURCH IN HISTORY 
Mr. William Shanahan 
Since the establishment of the Church, the Catholic religion has strongly influenced western European culture; Catholics should seek to understand this aspect of the Church's work by reading history and cultivating an historical insight. 
1. FOUNDERS OF THE MIDDLE AGES by Edward K. Rand; Harvard University Press, $4.00. 
A proper beginning for any study of Christian civilization; contains chapters on St. Jerome, St. Augustine, and Dante, and illustrates, with wit and scholarship, the relation of medieval civilization to the classical world. 
2. THE MAKING OF EUROPE by Christopher Dawson; Sheed, $3.00. 
A "minor classic" of historical writing, which traces, with much wisdom and the clarity that comes from real understand­ing, the emergence of a Christian society during the early middle ages. 
3. CATHOLIC REFORMATION by Pierre JaneUe; Bruce Publishing Co. (1949), $4.50. 
Much has been written about the Protestant Reformation; little about the Catholic Reformation. This book, written by a French scholar, treats the revival of Catholicism in the six­teenth century chiefly from the standpoint that a Christian Humanism enlivened the Church and enabled it to meet the Protestant challenge. 
4. A HISTORY OF THE CHURCH by Philip Hughes; NY, Sheed & Ward (1934-1947), 3 Vols. $5.00 each. 
An exemplary history by a modem English scholar, which combines learning with literary style. Volume three, covering the period from St. Thomas Aquinas to Luther, may prove to be the most interesting volume as it explores the later middle ages and the origins of the Reformation. The portrait ol Luther is severe but fair to the man. 
5. A POPULAR HISTORY OF THE CATHOUC CHURCH by Philip Hughes; NY, MacmiUan (1949), ?3.50. 
This work, by the same author, is intended for an audience that seeks an initial acquaintance with Church history. 
6. CHARACTERS OF THE REFORMATION by Hilaire Belloc; N.Y., Sheed, $1.00, paper $.50. 
A cleverly written account of the chief actors, both Prot­estant and Catholic, in the drama of the Reformation. The treatment is not profound but reflects Catholic scholarship. There are handsome illustrations of all the persons discussed. 
7. THE PAGEANT OF THE POPES by John Farrow; 2nd ed., NY, Sheed (1950), $3.50. 
A work that has enjoyed a wide audience and has recently appeared in a second edition; there is no pretense to scholarship and the treatment is popular throughout. 
8. THE PAPACY AND WORLD AFFAIRS AS RE­FLECTED IN THE SECULARIZATION OF POLITICS by Carl Conrad Eckhardt; Chicago, University of Chicago Press (1937), $4.00. 
A work, less formidable than its title suggests, that candidly appraises the role of the Papacy in diplomacy since the Peace of Westphalia (1648). Most of the material deals with affairs since that time and is readily understandable to anyone having a brief acquaintance with modem European history. 
9. A HISTORY OF THE EXPANSION OP CHRISTIAN­ITY by Kenneth Scott Latourette; NY and London, Harpers (1937-1945), 7 Vols., $4.00 each; set $22.50. 
Although written by a Protestant this is the most authori­tative and scholarly account of Christian missionary activity. It is inspired by a Christian viewpoint throughout. Volumes four to seven deal with missionary activity in the ninetfenth and twentieth centuries, the last volume also contains some sober reflections about the problems that beset the present-day Christian world. 
10. THE HISTORY AND LITERATURE OP CHRIS­TIANITY by Pierre de LabrioUe; NY, Knopf (1925), $7.50. 
This has long been a standard account, rich, well-informed, with a mature scholarship. 
11. HISTORY OF THE CHURCH by Joseph Lortz; Bruce (1938), $3.50. 
'The translation of a well-informed German history that is widely read abroad. 
12. HISTORY OF THE CATHOLIC CHURCH IN THE NINETEENTH CENTURY 1789-1908 by James MacCaffrey; 2nd rev. ed., Dublin and St. Louis, Herder (1909), 2 vols. 
This is still the best survey of the Church's history during the nineteenth century, in a world-wide sense. The material on England, the United States and Ireland as well as the cov­erage of social and educational problems is especially notable. 
GROUP VII 
THE AMERICAN SCENE 
Reverend Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C. 

The following list contains the more noteworthy books in the field of American Catholic History. This is a field of study which is gradually becoming more and more cultivated. 
1. MAJOR TRENDS IN AMERICAN CHURCH HIS­TORY by Rev. Francis X. Cnrnm, aj. ; America Fkcn, N.T. (1946), $2.50. 
One of the later books with interesting essays on probloi in American Church History. <Juite readable. 
2. THE STORY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISH by The­odore Maynard, Macmillan, N. T. (1941), |5.06. 
Although there are some minor mistakes in this volmne it ia very readable and should be very informative for 
3. THE CATHOLIC CHURCH IN THE UNITED STATES by Rev. Theodore Roemer, ojjf., CAP., B. Herder, St. Louis (1950), $5.00. 
The latest book, with plenty of information bat not vety inspiring. 
4. OUR LAND AND OUR LADY by Daniel Saigatt; Longmans, Green Co., N.Y., (1939), $3.00. 
Excellently written with special emphasis upon the nde of the Blessed Virgin in the Catholic History of the coontiy. 
5. AMERICAN OPlfHIOS OF ROMAN CATHOUaSM IN THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY by Sister H. Angnsthia Ray, B.T.H., Columbia University Press (1936), $4.75. 
An interesting study of the attitude of most Americans toward the Catholic Church during the Revolutionary era. 
6. THE PROTESTANT CRUSADE, 1800-1860. A STUDY OF THE ORIGINS OF AMERICAN NATIVISM by Ray Allen Billington; Macmillan, N.Y. (1939), $5.00. 
A very fine study of Protestant prejudice against the Choidi during the period before the Civil War. 
7. THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JOHN ENGLAND 1786­1842 by Rev. Peter K. Gnilday; America Press, N.Y. (1927), $10.00. 
A study of the life and times of one of the greatest chnieh­men during the 19th century. 
8. ORESTES BROWNSON, YANKEE, RADICAL, CATH­OLIC by Theodore Maynard; Macmillan, N.Y. (1943), $3.00. 
This is a very well written biography of one of our greatest converts. 
9. THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF BISHOP McQUAID by Rev. Frederick J. Zwierlein, 3 vols.; Art Print Shop, Rochester, N. Y. (1925), $3.00. 
These three volumes contain information about the Ca&olie Church at the turn of the century which is not available in any other source although the point of view of the auQior may not be acceptable to all the people. 
10. THE LIFE OF CARDINAL GIBBONS ARCHBI|SHOP OF BALTIMORE by Alloi Sinclair Will, 2 vols.; E. P. Dnttim Co., N. Y. (1922), $10.00. 
This is as yet the best account of our greatest American Catholic diplomat. 
11. SOCIAL DOCTRINE p j ACTION. A PERSONAL HISTORY. By Rev. John A. Ryan; Harper Bros., N. Y. (1941), $3.00. 
This is Monsignor Ryan's own story of his great voriE for the laboring man. 
Paf|«Fiv* 
GROUP VIII 

LIVES OF THE SAINTS 
Rev. William Craddick, CS.C. 
Catholic life and spirit are best reflected in the lives of the saints, the success stories of Catholic history. The saints are proof that the spirit of Christ lives in the Church in all ages. 
1. SAINT TERESA OF AVILA, William Thomas Walsh, Bruce Publishing Company, Milwaukee, ?6.00. 
This Carmelite nun had a most difficult mission in life— the reformation of a Religious Order. She was a mystic, yet she dealt with civil authorities, bishops, priests, difficult charac­ters, and her own religious subjects, and did it with a level­headedness, charm and saintliness that makes her one of the Church's most captivating of saints. This work is one of the most outstanding spiritual writings of recent years. 
2. SAINT AMONG SAVAGES, THE LIFE OP ISAAC JOGUES, Francis X. Talbot, S.J., Harper and Brothers, New York, ?2.50. 
Isaac Jogues, a Jesuit priest, came from France to bring the Faith to the Indians of North America. This is a thrilling book of his missionary work, trials, heroic suffering and martyr­dom, told by one of our best writers. 
3. THOMAS MORE, R. W. Chambers, Newman Press, Westminster, Md., $4.00. 
Hers is not a monk or a nun, but a layman, a happy family man, lawyer and Chancellor of England, who became a martyr when he opposed Henry VIII and his illicit marriage. This is one of the most authentic books on the life and times of More. 
4. SAINT THOMAS AQUINAS, Gilbert Keith Chesterton, Sheed & Ward, |2.75. 
Here is a brilliant thinker of the Twentieth Century telling you in his consummate style, and with his profound wisdom, what he saw in one of the greatest thinkers of all times, the Dominican priest, philosopher and theologian. 
5. THE VOCATION OF ALOYSIUS GONZAGA, Cyril 
C. Martindale, S.J., Sheed and Ward, New York, $2.50. 
This lad had to fight the temptations of the court life around him. He had to fight his own strong will. He had to fight to become a Jesuit. He was only a boy, but when you finish this book, you will say, "What a man!" 
6. THE CONFESSIONS OF ST. AUGUSTINE, translated by F. J. Sheed, Sheed and Ward, New York, $3.00. 
Pagan, sinner. Christian, Bishop, philosopher and theologian, saint,—^these were stages in the life of Augustine. This classic is the Saint's own story. A book that will never lose its effec­tiveness. 
7. THE SECRET OF THE CURE D'ARS, Henry Gheon, Shesd and Ward, $1.00; paper, $.50; (1938). 
Thousands came to St. John Vianney, the pastor of Ars, for advice, for forgiveness of their sins, and for inspiration. In this biography, filled with many interesting incidents, the reader will find more than one help for his own life. Gheon writes in a style that will make you come back for more of his Secrets—^f the Little Flower, of St. John Bosco, of St. Margaret Mary. 
Page Six 

GROUP iX 
MODERN LITERATURE 
Mr. Frank O'MaUey 
A truly impressive Catholic literature exists today. The few novelists and poets—representative and selected—listed here have as their source of vitality (in some cases at least ultimately) the spirit of the Church, and recreate, in various effects, the life of man and nature and civilization within that spirit. 
1. THE WOMAN WHO WAS POOR, Leon Bloy, Sheed and Ward, New York, $3.00. 
A disturbing, even shocking, autobiographical novel by the "pilgrim of the Absolute," especially interesting for its handling of the character and experience of Clotilde, a type of spiritual suffering and of the supernatural innocence that is saintliness. 
2.
 THE DIARY OP .A COUNTRY PRIEST, Georges Ber­nanos, Macmillan, $3.50. 

3.
 UNDER THE SUN OF SATAN, Georges Bemanos, Pantheon Books, $3.00. 

4.
 JOY, Georges Bemanos, Pantheon Books, New York, $3.00. 


These novels manage powerful, if dark, drama of the inner life and death, the holiness and evil of man ag:ainst the back­ground of a despiritualized civilization. The Diary of a Country Priest is a poignant study of vocation. The devil-scenes in Under the Sun of Satan are among the most moving and searing in modem literature. Joy is remarkable among other things, for the characterization of Mademoiselle de Chantal. 
5.
 VIPER'S TANGLE, Francois Mauriac, Sheed & Ward, New York, $3.00. 

6.
 THERESE, Francois Mauriac, Holt, $3.00. 

7.
 GOD AND MAMMON, Francois Mauriac, Sheed & Ward, New York, $1.50. 


It would be hard to find a writer of comparable conscience and comparison. There is an acute cutting at the heart—in the misery of the old man of Viper's Tangle, in the mystery of the odious Therese. God and Mammon is a most interesting autobiographical essay on the problems of the modem Catholic novelist. 
8.
 BRIGHTON ROCK, Graham Greene, Viking, $3.00. 

9.
 THE POWER AND THE GLORY, Graham Greene, Viking, $2.50. 

10.
 THE HEART OF THE MATTER, Graham Greene, Viking, $3.00. 

The Catholics who are Greene's chief characters struggle through traps of vice and routine towards grace and mercy and love. In the handling of his theme, Greene lacks the fisry impact of Bemanos, the acuity of Mauriac 

11.
 KRISTIN LAVRANSDATTER, Sigrid Undset, Knopf, New York, $3.50; 3 vols., boxed, $7.50. 

12.
 THE MASTER OP HESTVIKEN, Sigrid Undset, Knopf, 4 vols, in one, $4.00. 


The problems and questions raised by the other novelists listed here are handled and resolved in a fine, sure, fullbodied way in the portentous art of Sigrid Undset. These vast novels, with medieval backgrounds, fuse magnificently the world of sense and the world of spirit. 
13. COLLECTED POEMS, Gerard Manley Hopkins, Ox­ford, New York (1937), $2.00; Toronto, ?1.50. 
Particularly to be noted are such poems as "God's Gran­deur," "Ths Windhover," "Spelt from Sibyl's Leaves" and the monumental "The Wreck of the Deutschland." Hopkin's poetry, though difficult, is wonderfully intense and alive. To this poet man's world is surely "word, news, expression of God." 
14. COLLECTED POEMS, G. K. Chesterton, Dodd (1932), $3.50. 
Readers will be especially interested in "Lepanto" and "ballad of the White Horse." poems of characteristic Ches­tertonian vigor. Chesterton lectured at the University 20 years ago and, upon his departure, wrote the poem "The Arena" dedicated to Notre Dame. 
15.
 THE TIDINGS BROUGHT TO MARY, Paul Claudel, Yale University Press (1916). $2.00. 

16.
 THE SATIN SUPPER, Paul Claudel, Sheed and Ward, New York, $3.00. 


Claudel's great poetic dramas ars essentially studies in the import of Christian suffering and sacrifice. The Tidings is infinitely less labyrinthine than The Satin Slipper. Two very effective reading experiences within these dramas are the Christmas Eve scene in the cave (Act HI, Scene III) of The Tidings, and the dream scene (The Third Day, Scene HI), of The Satin Slipper. 
SUPPLEMENTARY BOOKS FOR MODERN LITERATURE SECTION 
17.
 A HANDFUL OF DUST, Evelyn Waugh, New Direc­tions, $1.50. 

18.
 BRIDESHEAD REVISITED, Evelyn Waugh, Little, Brown and Co., Boston, $2.50. 


The first of these novels represents very well Waugh's burlesque-satire of contemporary civilization. The second is regarded as a "positive" expression of his Catholicism. 
19.
 FATHER MALACHY'S MIRACLE, Bruce Marshall, Pocket Books, $.25. 

20.
 THE WORLD, THE FLESH AND FATHER SMITH, Bruce Marshall, Houghton, MifBin and Co., $2.50; also pub­lished by Forum Books, $1.00. 


A writer with a considerable sense of humour, Marshall handles his characters and situations \vithout the gravity and grim force, say, of the French group. 
21. THE UNBROKEN HEART, Robert-Speaight, Cas­sell (1938), 7s.6d. 
A former lecturer at Notre Dame and a first-rate actor, Speaight has composed here a finely-constructed, sensitive psychological portraiture. 
22. PRINCE OF DARKNESS, J. F. Powers, Doubleday, Doran, New York, $2.75. 
Commonly looked upon as one of the most talented of ths younger American writers. Powers writes subtle and affecting short stories out of his own observation and experience of the American Catholic scene. 
23.
 SUMMER AFTER SUMMER, Richard SnlliTan. Doubleday, Doran (1942), $2.50. 

24.
 THE WORLD OF IDELLA MAY, Richard Sullivan, Doubleday, Doran (1946). 

25.
 FIRST CITIZEN, Richard SulUvan, Henry Holt, New York (1948), $3.00. 


A Notre Dame teacher of creative writing, Sullivan prac­tices himself an excellent craftsmanship which holds a sensi­tive, warm insight into contemporary American experience localized in the small fictional world of Baycourt. 
26. SELECTED POEMS, Francis Thompson, Scribner, $2.00. 
Although Thompson has a sacramental view of life, his poetic effects, however sumptuous, may strike some readers as fevered, heavy, obsolescent. 
27. GOD SPEAKS, Charles Peguy, Pantheon Books, New York, $1.50. 
28. THE MYSTERY OF THE CHARITY OF JOAN OF 
ARC, Charles Peguy, Pantheon Books, New York, $3.00. In his mystery-drama of Joan of Arc, Peguy, with quiet urgency, makes us realize that we belong to the g^reatest race with the greatest vocation, the race of Christians. 
29. HYMNS TO THE CHURCH, Gertrud von le Fort, Sheed and Ward, New York, $1.50. 
These memorable, psalm-like poems of the Mystical Body carry out the liturgical year. Note too, her important reli­gious-historical novels. The Veil of Veronica and The Pope From, the Ghetto. 
30.
 A MAN IN THE DIVIDED SEA, Thomas Merton, New Directions, N. Y., $2.50. 

31.
 FIGURES FOR AN APOCALYPSE, Thomas Merton, New Directions, N. Y., $2.50. 


Merton's poetry shows an anxious Christian vision of reality but, on the whole, his poetry lacks strength. His real imr portance lies in the phenomenal impact of The Seven Storey Mountain and The Waters of Siloe. 
32. LORD WEARY'S CASTLE, Robert LoweU, Harcourt, Brace, New York, $2.50. 
This young American poet deserves to be classed with Hop­kins and Claudel as a serious Incamational-Redemptive poet. While hard-going, his poems are vastly more potent than those of Thomas Merton. 
33.
 THE IRON PASTORAL, John Frederick Nims, Wil­liam Sloan Associates, Chicago, $2.50. 

34.
 A FOUNTAIN IN KENTUCKY, John Frederick Nims, William Sloan Associates, Chicago, $2.73. 

In poems of clear distinction, John Nims of Notre Dame touches the quick of modem existence, drawing its phenomena into striking imagery. • ~ 

35.
 MYSTICAL POEMS OF NUPTIAL LOVE, Coventry Patmore, Humphries, $3.00; deluxe edition, $25.00. 


Patmore's explorations—Christian and original—^into the relationship between human and divine love are of immense value, although his poetry does not approach that of Hopkins in Vitality. 
Pasie Seven 

36. COLLECTED POEMS, Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., The University Press, Notre Dame (1922). 
A former president of Notre Dame, Father O'Donnell be­fore his death in the early thirties, wrote fine, beautifully-fashioned religious poetry. Of particular value is The Rime of the Rood, which at least one critic of competence considers superior to Francis Thompson's famous The Hound of Heaven. 
GROUP X 

HAPPINESS IN MARRIAGE Reverend Paul Bailey, C.S.C. 
A special reading list is gfiven for Marriage since this is the way of life in which most people must work out their salva­tion. As a way of life, marriage has suffered much from the modem secularistic spirit which leaves God and His plan out­side of real everyday living. The following books give some indication of the grandeur of God's plan for the Christian life in marriage. 
1. MAEKIAGE, Dietrich von Hildebrand, Longmans, Green & Co. (1942), 51.50. 
A deep study of the meaning of marriage especially as the total gift of two persons to one another and to God. No book shows more beautifully the spirituality of conjugal love. 
2. LIFE TOGETHER, Wingfield Hope, Sheed and Ward (1944), ?2.50. 
This simply explains the Catholic Pattern of married love, its pitfalls and the way to growth. Excellent reading espe­cially for those who find their married life growing dull. 
3. MARRIAGE AND THE FAMLY, Jacques Leclercq, Frederick Pustet Co. (1942), §4.50. 
A scholarly philosophical study of love and marriage from practically every aspect. It is the best Catholic text on the analysis of the growth of the family, chastity in marriage, evils of divorce and free lov& Definitely for the serious-minded. Used as a text book at Notre Dame. 
4. ART OF HAPPY MARRIAGE, James A. Magner, Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee (1947), |2.75. 
Especially good for practical directions as to choice of partner, qualities to be looked for, etc., planning of finances, and also discusses moral, civil and sacramental aspects of the marriage bond. 
5. MARRIAGE, A GREAT SACRAMENT IN CHRIST, Franziskus Von Streng, Benziger (1939), §1.50. 
Explains fully and in detail how the sacramental grace of matrimony exists in wedded life, and how it can be put to work for the sanctification of the partners. 
6. MORALS AND MARRIAGE, T. G. Wayne, Longmans, Green & Co., New York (1936), $1.75. 
The very best guide-book you can find for a short, simple, clear and positive explanation of the meaning of sex and love and what is the right and wrong use of married love. 
7. HAPPINESS IN MARRIAGE, Anonymous. An Ethico-Medical Study, (Obtainable through the Department of Re­ligion, Notre Dame University, $.10). 
A pamphlet restricted to private distribution by Catholic priests and physicians for couples approaching marriage. It explains in honest and honorable detail the physiological, psy­chological intimacies of the marriage acts as well as the spir­itual meaning. It is the best instruction-book for those soon to be married. 
Page Eisht 
GROUP XI 

THE APOSTOLATE 
Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C. 
The following impressive books point out from various points of view vital phases of Catholicism in action: 
1. GROWTH OR DECLINE, Cardinal Emmanuel Suhard, Fides, South Bend, cloth, $2.00; paper, $1.00. 
A singularly powerful analysis of the deepest meaning of today's crisis, a profound statement of the Church's contem­porary mission, and a practical summation of the concrete directions and forms that today's apostolate must take. 
2. REVOLUTION IN A CITY PARISH, Michonneau, Blackfriars, Oxford, England, ?2.00. 
Its message states that the parish should make its liturgy splendid and full of meaning; that it should make itself a real community, devoted to the conquest of souls. It shows con­cretely how this was actually accomplished by overhauling many of the time worn practices which had lost their purpose. 
3. FISHERS OF MEN, Maxence Van der Mersch, Sheed & Ward, New York, $3.00. 
It is the story of a young ex-Communist who turns Catholic during the dark days of the sit-down strikes in 1936 in France. He becomes a Catholic Action leader in his own factory. In telling the story of the young apostle we see the spirit and method of the new Catholic Worker movement. 
4.
 PRESENCE OF MARY, Charmot, S.J., Fides, South Bend, $2.50. 

Mary's role in the life and education of Catholic Action apostles. The first part develops the theme of Mary the Queen of apostles; while the second part presents her role in the formation of apostles. 

5.
 PRIEST-WORKMAN IN GERMANY, Perrin, S.J., Sheed & Ward, $2.50. 


The experience of Father Perrin as a volunteer worker among the prisoners and volunteers of France working in Germany during the war. He describes the difficult, yet re­warding labor of trying to form Christian communities among people of various nationalities, creeds and political complexion. He shows the turn the real Christian apostolate must take in the modem day. 
Order Form for Notre Dcone Heading List Books 
Notre Dame Bookstore, Notre Dame, Indiana. Please send me the following book(s) from the Notre Dame Reading List: 
Group Number Group Number 
Group _ Number Group Number 
Group Number Group Number 
NAME 

CITY ZONE 
STATE ... 

Check n Money Order n is enclosed 
Weekly luncheons Tuesday noon at the Touch­
down Club. 
Club Newspaper publlcration—the Twin Domes, 
edited by George Haithcock. 
Chaplain's conunittcc to visit sick members and 
represent the Club on the death of members or 
their families. 
Club Directory* publication. 
Placement service and job-counselling. 
Civic Affairs participation. 
At this writing 160 Club members have gotten 
under the wire with data for the Club Directory. 
Geoi^e Howard, Jr., chairman of the directory 
committee, expects to round up the delinquents in 
two more weeks. The directory- will list Alumni by 
name, address and occupation. 
The Great Books Seminar, so successful last year 
is being continued under the direction of Gerry 
O'Brien. He has again secured the leadership at 
Seminar sessions of U. S. District Judge Alexander 
Holtzoff and of Dr. Brendan Brown, Dean of the 
Catholic U. Law School. 
Books and the dates of their discussions arc: 
Oct. 10, Thuc>'dides' **Pclopenncsian War'*; Nov. 
13, Plutarcli's "Lives"; Dec. 12, "Confessions—St. 
Augustine"; Jan. 12, St. Thomas Aquinas' "Treatise 
on Law"; Feb. 13, Machiavellt's "The Prince"; 
Marcli 13, Montaigne's "Of the Education of Chil­
dren"; April 10, "Hamlet"; May 8, "The Fed­
eralist Papers." 
Williamsport 
Jack Willmann reports the recent election of 
William R. Downs, '08, as the new president of 
the Williamsport club. He succeeds Frank C. 
Hayes. Thomas B. Dorris, '33, is the vice-presi­
dent, and Jack Willmann, reelected secretary-treas­
urer. Members of the board arc Mr. Hayes, Peter 
Somervillc, Anthony J. Stopper and Harry R. 
Kimm. 
The club showed a campus film on October 30, 
whicJi helped bring out a good membership total 
and aided success of the dinner meeting. 
University's Utility Problems 
(Continued from Page 3) 

plant which less than twenty years be­fore had been constructed to take care of all future expansion, now was des­cribed as totally inadequate—even after the recommended improvements. 
At best it would handle only two more buildings. Not even the four for which working drawings and funds have al­ready been received, and two of which have already been started. To say noth­ing of the additional dormitories, the student union, iield house, maintenance building, etc., the need for which has been apparent to all for a long while. 
In all fairness it must be said that no one twenty years ago could have fore­seen that at the mid-century mark Notre Dame's population would be in excess of 5,000. Had they been able to foresee it, then it would also have been apparent that not even twenty-five new buildings would be enough to house and feed, to educate and recreate, this huge family. 
The estimated cost of these alterations and enlargements in our heat-power­water departments is $1,500,000! That is already $100,000 higher than the figure given in the last issues of the ALUMNUS and of NOTRE DAME. The page on which these needs were listed—along with others which may be treated in a future article—was appro­priately titled "Ck)ing UP!" The com­poser was merely being prophetic, not 
November-December, 1950 
facetious. And if present trends con­tinue, there may have to be still further revisions upward. 
Unfortunately, there is no choice left us in the matter of these alterations^ If we wish properly to care for the physi­cal welfare of our students—and we do —We must accept the recommendations of the consulting engineers. And if we wish to go ahead even with our im­mediate building program —agfain, the answer is in the aflRrmative—^we must act on these recommendations at once. There is no alternative left us; next year will be too late. 
Where is the money to come from for these urgent needs? That is a question which still puzzles the President of the University and his Council. In all proba­bility We cannot expect large sums for this project from individual donors; it does not carry the appeal of a radiation chemistry laboratory, or of a library building. 
But we may hope to realize the neces­sary funds through the generosity of our many alumni and of the parents of our students, past and present. They are close enough to the University to see our domestic problems most clearly, and to appreciate them. 
Too, we may count on the generous cooperation of Notre Dame Foundation chairmen and committeemen every­where, who are eontinnaUy bringini; ] frienib into the Notre Dame family.' -Np cotttiibntiiRi tiam these friends', and alumni is too small, beeaiise tiienmnbor of potoitial bene£tctois is so enomoas. Yon might count them for yonisetves just within the dielc of your acquaint^ ances. 
Father Sorin founded this University of Our Lady with four hundred doQars in his pockets, and in his heart a spirit of indomitable faith' in his Heavenly Patroness. It would be unthinkable that our faith in Her should be less strong, who have but to look around us and see the miracles She has already worked! 
UND Night 

Univenal Notre Dame Ni^t com-mince membeis in all local Ahmmi Clubs are lemiaded that requests for speakers baa the campus should reach the Ahmml Office in time to avoid last-minute scrambling for po»­tion. 
It is not any too som to get re­quests in now, to assure a campus rep­resentative for the Apr. 2 speaking date. Requests should be addressed to James E. Aimstnn^, Ahmnu Secre­tary. 
Fort Wayne Turns Out for Bishop O'Hara 
Harry Hogan, '01, (second from right) marshalled a leceptioii cwinnillee tfom tiK fort Wayne Club when Bishop O'Hara arrived for the coasecratiaa' of Most Ker. Leo Puiley,' Aunliary Bishop of the Fort Wayne Diocese. 
Contributioiis from Classes total $730,006.03 
Alumni Classes 
1904 
From Robert E- Proctor: "Here is a letter from Ernest E- L. Hammer, Justice of the Supreme Court of New York State. I'm receiving quite a few answers to a letter I 
•wrote recently to the 34 surviving members of the class of 'W and will send on those of particular interest to the ALUMNUS." 
Dear Bob: It gave me great pleasure to hear from you, and through you, of our classmates mentioned in your letter. It will be a great pleasure for me. God willing, to attend the 50th Annivers3r>' Reunion of our class at Notre Dame in 1954. Your letter mentioned that there arc 34 of our class left, and if it would not be imposing on you, I would appreciate receiving a copy of the list of their addresses." Two members of the class recently died in the same week. Thomiis Daniel Lyons, a pioneer Tulsa attorney and former district judge in Oklahoma died in Vermont Sept. 20. Besides activities in tlie legal and educational fields, he was the author of several books, including **TIic Oil Operator in Oklahoma'' and '^Schools and School Districts in Oklahoma." 
Joseph A. McCarthy died Sept. 22 in St. John's Hospital, St. Louis. 
His wife, Lilian, was in the hospital at the same time with a broken hip and she writes that she is thankful for the prayers of the *04 class and of the Alumni Association. 
1913 
Bishop John Francis Noll of the Fort Wayne Diocese recently announced the elevation to the rank of Monsignor of Father Julian F. Doktsr. 
Father Doktor, following his investiture, will hold the rank of Papal Chamberlain. He is pastor of St. Stanislaus Chuch, Michigan City. Ind. 
1910 
To Jim Armstrong: *'My delicate and sensitive temperament is a source of much embarrassment when I ponder the possibilities of a wild secretarial jamboree—chum­ming up with all the estimable members of the class of '10. 
"Were it not for the F.E.P.C, the N.O.L.D.. and the unassorted and well-worn letters of the domestic alphabet, it would please me to discuss at length the implications of the bi-lateral contract involved In the class member and class secretar>* relationship. At the present reunion in June, my salary' as Secretary* w-as doubled and yet tlic use of our secretarial resources and facilities is negligible. 
"Well! as Vishinsky must think as he plunges tongue-first into his brand of loquacity—here goes and let the chaps fall where they will. The old f^thfuls—*Red* Miller and 'Bill' Schmitt showed up for the Navy-Notrc Dame game. Apparently they took the humidity in stride. They perhaps came up for air after the game and found the elements still pouring. 
'*Don Hamilton, a good friend of the I9I0 men, paddled in from Columbus. Captain Leroy 'Dash­man' Kcacli (Indianapolis) sent a brace of tickets and the tickets helped me with a couple of friends who could swim. Keach comes into the picture because he had a wi t recently with *Chet* Freeze. 
"It would perhaps be no infringement of Federal Communication regulations to mention a Cleveland visit on the part of the Universit>- Registrar. On October 12 Father Thornton did the University and himself proud in talking to the Fourth Degree Knights of Columbus on the University and Knight­hood. 
"We have some committees working on the net«*s 
20 
for the January- edition of the .\LUMNUS. Until then happy days and good footing. Yours, M. L. Moriarity. 
1912 
Mr. WendcU T. Phillips, of Milford, Mass., was appointed this month by Gov. Paul Dcver to a five-year term as a member of the Board of Reg­istration of .Architects. 
Immediately after his graduation from Notre Dame in 1912, he became associated with the firm of Maginnis and Walsh in Boston. He remained with them until 1940 when he resigned to go into private practice. He now maintains an office at 84 Prospect St., Milford, Mass. 
Mr. Phillips throughout his active practice has specialized in ecclesiastical work and is considered outstanding in that field, having designed schools, churches and convents in many parts of the country. In 1925 he was awarded the honoraty* degree of Master of Arts by Holy Cross College in Wor­cester, ^lass. 
He is a member of the American Institute of Architects, the Boston Society of .Architects, Knights of Columbus, Holy Cross Alumni Assn., the Boston Museum of Fine Arts and the National Council of Accredited Architects. 
He resides at 98 Congress St., Milford. He has five sons, Donald, Paul, Robert, Richard and Charles. His oldest son, Wendell, Jr., was killed in action during the last war while on a bombing mission over Germany. 
DEATHS 
Rc\*. Edward J. Howard, of Burlington, Vermont, died Sept. 5, in the Bishop DcGoesbriand Hospital, Burlington. Ordained Dec 19, 1915, after com­pleting his course in theolog\- at the Grand Sem­inary, Montreal, Father Howard served successively as pastor in Woodstock, Brandon, and St. Johns-bur\' in the Diocese of Burlington, Vermont. 
1915 
DEATHS Edward Duggan, of Houston, Texas, a football teammate of the late Knute Rockne, died in Hous­ton Oct. 16, and was buried in Holy Cross Ceme­tery, Indianapolis. 
He had formerly been a Franklin, Indiana, col­lege grid coach and later became athletic director at Sam Houston High school until he retired two years ago. Bom May 19, 1891, on a southern Indiana farm, he graduated from Notre Dame in 1915. He won football monograms in 1913 and 1914 for the Irish. 
His widow, a daughter, two sons, three brothers and one sister sur\'ive. 
John F. Fit^erald, of Boston, Mass., died at his home Oct. 2, at the age of 87. 
Mr. Fitzgerald, who was awarded an honorary 
LL.D. degree from the University in 1915, was twice mayor of Boston and father-in-law of Joseph P, Kennedy, former United States Ambassador to Great Britain. 
He was one of the most colorful figures in the history of Boston politics, a lifelong Democrat and ^vas elected to Congress for three consecutive terms from 1895 to I90I. 
Mr. Fitzgerald, grandfather of .Representative John F. Kennedy, was a native .of Boston, bom there Feb. 14, 1863. In political' circles he was known as "Honey" and is credited with populariz­ing the tunc "Sweet Adeline." 
He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. 
192 1 —30-YEAR REUNION June 8, 9, 10, 1951 
SYMPATHY To Dr. James F. Clancy, of Hammond, Indiana, on the death of his wife, Oct. 29. 
1922 
To Dr. Daniel L. Sexton and brother D n Elmer Sexton, '18, both of St. Louis, we tender our sym­pathy in the death of their beloved father—Daniel £. Sexton, retired postmaster of Carlinrille, Illinois, who died on September 30. In addition to the above, we express our sorrow to Mrs. Sexton, 1%-idow of the deceased and to daughters^ Jean, Evelyn, and Edith. 
Our congratulations and best wishes go to Mr. and Mrs. Frank J. Schaefer of Louisrillc, Ky., by reason of their marriage in St. James Church, Loutsrille, on October 14. Mrs. Schaefer (Marj* Frances) is a daughter of the Frank Bloemers. The wedding Mass was celebrated by an uncle of the groom, who is a Franciscan Missionary in Arkansas. Notre Dame honored the occ:asion w*ith the presence of Father John H. Murphy. 
The parents of the bride—Frank and Marie Blocmer—are now up north to see the Pitt and Iowa fcmtball game and to visit Marie's folks in Neenah, Wisconsin, and the Ralph Cor>-ns in Molinc, Illinois. 
We are very sorry that our classmate, D. W^ortli Clarfc, running for a six-year U. S. Senate seat in Idaho on Democratic ticket was defeated in the election. Worth is to be congratulated for dis­posing of Senator Taylor in the primaries. 
Our class architect, Joe Shaughness>-, of Kansas City firm of Shaughnessy and Bower, Architects, is designing some fine Catholic edifices in the Kansas City area. Off the Shaughnessy-Boiver blueprints ha%'e come St. Peter's Church, Perpetual Adoration Convent, also Bishop Hogan, Le\ris and Glcnnon high schools. Frank Grimaldi, '47, is affiliated with the firm. 
Dr. Eddie Anderson, hack at Holy Cross College, Worcester, Mass., again after a decade at the University of Iowa is doing good worlc with his football team. His losses have been by vcr>* close scores. He is now aiming to make a good showing against Boston College, who routed Holy Cross last year. 
Steve Cannady of Carlinville, Illinois, is now in excellent trim after his illness of last year. We at­tended the North Carolina game. 
Charlie Hirscfabubl of Portland, Oregon, reports that Jim Shaw of Des &{oines, was in Portland on business in early September. Unfortunately, they were unable to meet except by telephone. Charlie and wife, Pat, hope to visit Los Angeles for the us e game. 
The Alumni Board has ordered or suggested the election of class officers for all the classes wliich have been graduated. The suggested procedure is for the present class secrctar>- to appoint a five-man nominating committee which will select two slates of seven men each. There are to be two candidates for each of the following offices: Presi­dent, Vice-Prvsident (East), Vice-President (Mid West), Vice-President (South), Vice-President (Far West), Secretary, Treasurer. 
Duties of the vice-presidents are to be special representatives of the class in their particular areas and to assist the class secrctar>- by furnishing cur­rent news for the area or district. 
As soon as a nominating committee is appointed, and suc:h committee can draw up the slates, ballots will be mailed to all class members. Kindly note and return ballots promptly to addressee shown in instructioiu. It is hoped the class of 1922 will have a slate of ofiicers ready to function by January 1, 1951, or soon thereafter. The class officers election thereafter will be held in conjunction with the Five>Year Reunions of the Class. 
Your outgoing secretary-, who is not a candidate for any office, docs hereby express his appreciation and thanks to his wonderful classmates who have been so loyal and faithful over the years to keep the spark and spirit of 1922 on the move. His only wish is that you cooperate in every possible way with the new class officers whom 1922 men will vote into office in the, near future. Let us keep 1922 at the head of the parade. 
Vour class secretary, Gerald *'Kid*' Ashe, 39 Cambridge Street, Rochester 7, New* York. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1923 
Elmer J. Collins arrived in Japan this month wearing coloners eagles and carrying the title "Chemical OfBcer, Japan Logistical Command." His HQ arc in Yokohama and he is concerned directly with UN troops and their logistical prob­lems in Korea. 
Col. Collins had been attached to Fifth Army Headquarters in Chicago. In World War II he served with the Procurement Division of Air Afa­leriel Command. He was an instrument engineer before entering military 5cr\*ice. 
The colonel's wife, Mrs. Julia £. Collins, lives in South Bend with a son^ Philip. 
1924 
Word this month that G.* Don SulU^-an, former President of the Indianapolis Club has been named as assistant chairman of the Coal Defense Com­mittee. 
Don, presently assistant to the president of the .Ayrshire Colleries Co., will help regulate the supply of coal to industry and defense needs for the dura­tion of the present emergency*. 
DEATHS Joseph L. Daly, Sept. 6. 
1925 
Your "Class Sec" mentioned "a breather" after our 25th Reunion, which w*as more or less to be expected, but you boys are taking this too seriously! The only voluntary piece of news came from Ben Kcsting here in Toledo. He is the proud grand­father of a baby girl, Karen Ann. His son Jim of the Class of *49 had a daughter last month. Ben was wondering how many grandfathers there are in the class! Let's hear from you oldsters . . . 
I had an opportunity for a few ivords w-ith some of the boys at the Xotre Dame-Xa\y rally in Cleveland. Rip Miller was at the head table representing the Navy coaching staff. After the speeches we had a chance to say "hello." He was talking to Bill Bell who was giving Rip "needles" for not making the reunion. Rip was "out to sea" at the time. Met Ed OTooIe and his wife on an ele\'ator at the Carter Hotel after the game. He looked great and we were both plenty happy about the \-tctory. Ray Cunningham stopped at the house a few weeks ago! Ray is opening a new studio out in Birmingham, Michigan, where he re­sides . . . he's still going strong and looks won­derful. 
The Class of '25 is proud of the work John Showcl did in getting 600 Chicago business leaders together so they could hear Rev. John J. Ca\*a­naugh, C.S.C, tell "The Notre Dame Stor>-." 
For Heaven's sake let's hear from some of you fellows before the next deadline! 
Hon. Daniel J. McAitiy was recently appointed a justice of the New York State Supreme Court by Governor Dewey. He had formerly been a judge of Broome County, New York. 
SYMPATHY To Mrs. W. B. Rcckcr of Lcipsic, Ohio, on the death of her husband, Dr. W. B. Rcckcr, Oct. 29. 
Your Class Secretary, John P. Hurley, 1218 City Park Ave., Toledo, O. 
192 6 —25.YEAR REUNION June 8, 9, 10, 1951 
Class Secretary JOHN RYAN writes: One of the occupational hazards which confronts a class secretary and sometimes causes him to awake screaming is "No copy for the column this month." That just about happened to your secretary this month due entirely to a propensity to say "I'll get at those cards tomorrow night sure.'* With two months between issues surely one of those sixty nights would be THE night to get out the usual forty cards to classmates asking for news. Only when John Bums* warning card came along did I discover that the sands of time had run low and only with the help of my good wife was I able to get them out at all. Result—my deadline to the fellows was too, too quick and only a few were able to get their stones in. But remember, you can help to cut down your secretary's worrying if you'll send the stories in, even after the deadline. It is so comforting to look at my file and say "Boy, V\'c got a good start for the next column." 
November-December, 1950 
We do have a start for this column by br^giag about the last (September-October) issue of the Alumnus. And we don't mean our '26 column. Did you all read through the magazine? The Editors of the Alumnus were really very generous to the Class of '26. On page 5 was a nice story headed "Father Toomey Elevated." Now it is Right Rev­erend Monsignor Joseph B. Toomey, '26. With no disrespect to his rank of domestic prelate, the Class of '26 says "Congratulations, Joe!" 
Then we turn to page 9 to learn that Falbcr 
Howard Kcnna, C.S.C. was elected Assistant Su­
perior General of the Congregation, moving from 
Notre Dame to New York City. Again, "Con­
gratulations"—and don't forget to send in that 
new address. 
When we turned from page 5 to page 9 we read 
a stor\' which filled almost all of page 7. That story 
gives the picture of the duties of the new Place­
ment Director, our own Bill Dooley. 
Then a big jump to page 27 and we are greeted 
by a picture and story of the recent ESSO promo­
tion of that old pole vaulter who is still reaching 
for new heights and making new records—FUul 
Harrington. Congratulations to you, Paul. We ^re 
happy for your ad\'ancement and we arc also happy 
to know that you will be back for our reunion 
next June. 
Our journey through the Alumnus continues to 
page 32 where we see a picture and a story about 
our Alumni Director Jack Adams. Jack was one 
of the principal speakers at a Catholic economic 
and social principles workshop held at the Univer­
sity on August 7. 
But we are not finished with our journey—the 
St. Louis Club notes mention that Jerry McDennott 
had been transferred from St. Louis to New York. 
The story does not say so but we are sure that it 
was another step upward for Jerr>*. Incidentally, 
Jerr%', be sure to send in that new address. 
So. all of the news of '26 that is fit to print is 
not found in the 1926 column. .\s a matter of fact 
your secretary feels a little like he was scooped 
on those stories. But he is happy that they were 
handled by "higher authority" for they certainly 
got better treatment in the news columns and the 
presentation they deser\'ed. Again, **congratula­
tions to all of you." 
Now for the letters which were received: 
Jim Kelleghan writes: 
On the letterhead of J. H. Kelleghan & Com­pany, Chicago, that he is still one of the LaSalle Street boys. Jim spent his first year out of ND with an investment firm on Chicago's Wall St., then went to the editorial staff of the Wall Street Journal staying through the 1929 crash. From 1931 till 1940 Jim was with a financial advertising agenc>' and then bought the letterheads on which he answered my card. 
His business is corporation programs of public information. Jim was married in 1927 and has four children, the oldest of whom, Tom, put in three years at ND prior to entering the Army this fall. Jim's 19-year-old daughter attends Barat College and his 16-year-old son and 14-year-oId daughter arc high school students. Jim promises to shake the dust of LaSalle Street from his feet next June so as to get back for reunion. 
From Rudy Goepfrich, nur local reunion chair­man at South Bend, we have word that he is al­ready getting plans under way for next June. rSecretar\-'s note—you fellows can all be assured that Rudy will do a bang-up job on the home grounds and will really give other class reunions something to shoot at). To you South Benders—Rudy can use your help and his address is 1109 N. Cleveland .\vcnue. Rudy says he has seen few of our class­mates since the 20th reunion, saying that, having lived off campus and working most of the free time during school days, he got little opportunity to know classmates other than those in engineering. 
By the time our reunion comes to a close your Secretary guarantees that his classmates will know Rudy. Rudy says that prior to her marriage his oldest daughter did secretarial work for Art Scfaeer. Recently one of our columns Ibted the names of our classmates for whom w*e had no addresses. 
So Rudy comes through with John E. Finibst's: 243 Second Street, Wyandotte, Kfichigan. Thanks, Rudy, the records will be noted. In January 1927 Rudy married Nellie Mansfield of South Bend. They have four children: Joan, the oldest, married and the mother of a son. 
This supports Rudy's claim for eligibility, as he says, in the Grandfathers' Section of the Class of '26. The Goepfrich's have t^vo other daughters and one son. With several short interruptions Rudy has been with Benduc Products DiWsion in South Bend. He started in Ei^iaecrtiig mad for aevea years wai ill diarge <rf aew devdopoMat duriHs, which time about oae hnadrcd pateats were issued in his name. He moved ri|^t aloiv in the organ­izstioB and is now Chief Engineer of the Bemfix Promicts DivuKNU 
CSharler BlargneC wrote a short note, needling your secretary for the quick deadline but managed to give his story in capsule form. ' Charley is one' of those hard woitiag guys, ^nce graduatioa be has been connected with New Albany Box and Basket Conqnny. He started a week after gradual tion and clums he hasn't taken a week off unce. He did admit that he took off four days in June 1932 to get married. 
Certainly hope that h ^ school gradnatkm in New Albany is pn^icrly sckcdoled so as not to coincide with our reimicHi weekend. Charley's son, Pat, is a senior and will be graduating next June. Charley, we'll let you know the reunion date (in the next issue if it is set) and if there is a C(MH flict perfa;q» you can get Pat to change courses and thereby make certain that the old man gets back to ND for the reunion. 
Perh^K Pat could wait over a year and graduate with Margaret. But on the other hand, periuqM Pat better graduate next June, for Charley says he has him scheduled to enter ND next year. Throi^ the years Charley has seen Kog Nolan, Andy Gon­lin, Joe QninlaB, Ouilie Blaina, Fred Link and Joe Shea. Charley says that he sees some ND fellows regularly, as he bowb every Monday night with the Loubville ND Club. 
From Lancaster, Pa., Henry ftAwk writes that his membership in the Class of * 1926 is due to-being an old student ui 1922-23 and that it is due-to the prodding of Joe FarreD, *13, and BUI Mooer,. '26, that he applied for membership in the Almwu Association. Henry's time at ND was spent in the Novitiate as Brother Regis. He left the Nfnritiate in ^ri l 1923. Henry'is a bachelor and lives with three unmarried sisters. 
From March 1942 until August 1945 Henry served in the Army. During that time he received a serious foot injury while in training but went overseas only to wind up in April 1945 with lobar pneu­monia. Subsequent to discharge he spent consid­erable tune in VA hf»pitals. He is presently with a large trucking company in Lancaster as Chief Clerk of Equipment and Scqiply. 
Henry's list of activities in religious and other activities would fill a couple of columns—Holy Name, 
K. of C , Boy Scouts, Notre Dame Club of Harris­burg. It's a good thing he is a bachelor. He will not be able to return for reunion as Im vaca­tion time next summer is already set in August to be taken up with Retreat activities. 
Here is one reply to your secretary's post cards which he could bet his shirt would be answered. As you know the cards go out on a spread through the alphabet. One of the cards this time went to John Ryan who promised your secretary some months ago he would ans^ver it when received. And believe it or not the so-and-so didn't send in a single word. So your secretary can't holler too much if some of you others don't answer the cards. But in this case the report can be made, for your secretary is rather familiar with the Ryan saga. 
Tw i weeks after graduation (you'll' have to for­give the "I" stuff along here for "your secretary" and "John" gets a little too ctmibcrsome) I went to Pittsburgh, got in the lumber business with Al Diebold's ('27} family and sUyed there until . September 1943 when the Army said "You are now' a Captain in the Corps of En^eers, report to the Divbion Engineer at Chicago." The extent of my Army training at that point told me that was an order and had to be obcyecL So, I went to Chic^o and spent three years in the Army acting as a Financial Analyst in the lovely (^MraUon— Contract Renegotiation, finally being promoted to 
' Major in July of 1946 when I was discharged. 
**fn November of 1926 in Pittsburgh I married Ona Fisher and our marriage has been blessed with two children: Denny who is now 23, a senior at Northwestern until the army exercises its option, which is soon; Denny bad three years* service in­cluding time in Japan and was called back to duty as a First lieutenant of Infantry on October 1 but obtained a delay until February 1 to pursue his sttidies; in and out of the Army he may some day finish college; our daughter. Sheila is a student at Loyola U. here in Chicago after having spent two years in nurses' training in Rockfoid, 111., where one of her patients was Dtek McCab^ '27. 
**After finishing my Army ser^^ce (and the only military training I got cost me $10 at my o%vn 
21 
volition at Chicago U.) I got into the financial end of a chemical company but left it to go as Credit Afan^er for another manufacturing com­pany. 
"The first of this >-ear I got an offer to return to the wholesale lumber business with a Chicago company which I had encountered in the course of my Army seriicc. Having sawdust in my veins inste^ul of blood I jumped at the opportunity to return to my first love. It*s a grand business and it has given me the opportunity, as I reported in our last issue, to see much widely separated fellows as Norb Kavanau^ in Portland, Ore., and Xig CraHford in Birmingham, Ala. So much for the story of Ryan except to say that he enjoys his job as Class Secretary vcr>' much.** 
From Akron, Ohio, Forest Swartz \mtes that in 24 years he has risen from the bottom to the top of the J. V. Swartz Co. He is now Vice-President and General Manager. Forest is happily married and the father of Linda, II, Nanc>', 8, and John, 2, whom he offers as a helper on the fullback assignment. He ^^'rites that he saw Lou Frankc some time :^o in Chicago and of course, sees the Akron ND crowd. He plans to be back next June. 
Although these reports are usually Avritten in alphabetical order we purposely kept one out of order. It's an example of a letter that was sent in after that old debbil deadline. From Berea, Ohio 
Roy Habcrt wrote: 
That 24 years have certainly passed rapidly. Roy has been married since 1929 and has two daugh­ters, one a senior at St. John's School of Nursing, and the other a junior in high school. For 20 years Roy has been with Standard Oil of Ohio in \-arious capacities and is presently Supervisor of service stations. Roy says that he hopes to be one of the 1926 members present for the quarter centur>' re­union, and signs his note "Getting prepared for '51." His question "Is my former roommate Jerry McDeimott sUU around Chicago?" is answered at the beginning of this column. 
From New Haven, Connecticut, John Contway writes a rather full stor>* on the men who received their post-graduate Boy Guidance degrees with us in 1926. John is Executive Director of the Boy Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus. His letter states that he hopes to be back in June for the reunion. 
According to John, five of the Boy Guidance men in the Class have died. These are Joe Bscker, Cj-ril Burdiell, Mllh'am E. Morrissey, Charles Laccy and A! July. John has kept pretty much in touch with the men of the class and it looks to your secretary like he might be a good chairman for seeing to it that the Boy Guidance men get back for the reunion. 
His work takes him throughout the United States and Canada and consequently he gets to see these fellows quite often. 
Ken Cook is National Director of Catholic Serv­ices with the Boy Scouts and lives in Yonkers, New York, with his wife, two daughters and two sons. 

Bill McGoH-an is kept quite busy with his many actirities in Pittsburgh. 
Tom Murphy coaches some basketball and docs some officiating when not occupied u-ith his duties as^ Chairman of the Cambridge Recreation Com­mission. 
Gene McVdgh is practicing law in Long Branch, New Jersey. Al Kirk Is District Boy Scout Execu­tive in Chicago. Harold Doyle Is teaching in Rochester,^ New York. Joe Connolly is in govern­ment service in Washington. 
Herbert Hughes returned to Canada and did quite a job as K. of C. Welfare Director at a Canadian air base. Jimmy Egan is back In Chi­cago after serving In the welfare field at Fort Wa>*ne and Gary. Tom Ueb is now coaching at Alabama. Hec McNeil runs the K. of C. Boys Club and Camp at Toronto. 
From John's story, I guess Hec gives it a pretty-good start for he has six sons and one daughter. Ed Walsh is a professor in the school of Journal­ism at Fordham. 
Bill O'Donnell after some years in the welfare field entered his father's business at Gcrardvillc, Penns\-I\-ania. Art Cunningham is editor of the local paper in St. Johns, New Brunswick, and has uTitten several splendid books. Dan Culhane is Regional Director of the Boys Club of America, headquartering in Washington. 
Russell Mcdure is reported as doing newspaper work in Kentucky. Romeo LeCIercq of Quebec City is now a successful real estate operator In 
22 
New York. All of this Is reported by John and certainly indicates that he keeps a close hand on the fellows that were in his classes. 
From Jackson, Michigan, comes a report by Joe Na%-arre. Your secretary wishes that it could be printed in full but we are fearful that the Editors of the Alumnus would squawk. After graduation, Joe taught English at school for a year and then went to Michigan where he graduated in law in June of 1930. It was at Ann Arbor that he met Mrs. Navarre and the September following gradua­tion was married. 
Joe practiced law in Kfuskegon and then moved on to Monroe, Michigan, his old home town. This was during the depression da>'s and he figured that his father's farm would be a good place to insure getting groceries. During the years Joe has served as Prosecuting Attorney and has been somewhat active in politics. 

At one stage of the game, he helped to establish a new Catholic high school in Afonroe and, as a matter of fact, taught In the school for a few years. He claims that since he did not receive any money for the teaching, his conscience is clear as to what the boys learned. 
Joe has five sons and one daughter and is hopeful that his second son who is 6'3" weighing 200 pounds could make a job as end In the next couple of years at ND.. Joe and his family moved from Monroe to Jackson- in the year of 1942 and during the years has had an opportunity of meeting nu­merous classmates at v-arious points throughout the country. 
In addition to operating a law business, Joe also is involved in a wholesale beer business and an electro-plating company. Add that to his po­litical affairs, and church affairs and he seems to be a pretty busy lad. He doesn't say so, but I think we can count on him being back for the reunion in June, 
As the November-December issue of the Alumnus %t-ill probably be reaching )'our homes shortly before Christmas, j'our secretary wants to take this op­portunity of wishing to all of you a very happy Christmas and a prosperous New Year. 
And that about covers the story for this issue. Ray Durst and George Hartnett and your secretary got together one day to discuss plans for our reunion and on the morning of the Michigan State game Ray and I met with Bill Doolcy for further talk. The thing is wide open so far, so if any of you fellows have any ideas for the reunion program send them to me at the address shown at the bottom of this column. Incidentally, I haven't checked with our Treasurer, George Hartnett, lately so I can't report whether or not our treas­ure* has gro^^'n any to take care of the necessary expenses incidental to preparing for the reunion. If you vvant to swell the very puny treasury either George or I will be glad to acknowledge your help. 
Afalcolm F. Knaus wishes it known that his busi­ness has outgrown his former Curtis Building of­fice and th?t he Is now located at 3117 W. Mc-Nicliols Road, Detroit 21, Michigan. 
He also informs us that he was joined in May of this year by John Michael Henry, *47, a Notre Dame Electrical Engineer graduate. 
REMEMBER '26—PREPARE FOR '51 

Your dass secretary, John J. R>-an, 1415 W. Trome Ave., Chicago 26, 111. 
1927 
From Joe Boland: 

If news is scanty in this space—It's because this reporter has been kicking around from city to city each week-end, following Notre Dame and the Chi­cago Cardinals, on radio assignments. And, the work being what it is, it's difficult to catch up on friends, classmates, and other pleasant contacts so that Ave might have something to relay to you here. 
Going backwards. In order of itinerary, the Navy game at Cleveland saw acquaintance renewed with Joe Shea, now assistant manager of the Hotel Statler, that city; and George Mead—^with George, Junior—who still resides in Erie, Pennsylvania. Both look Avell . . - and are happy and prosperous: about as mudi as I could get over a hand-shake on the Avay to the airport! 
Missed Pat Canny in Cleveland—although he pro­moted a room for me via Shea, thanks to both!— but caught up with the Canny One in New Or­leans, whence he traveled with Chuck R< ^ to check up on his favorite football team. Canny is still "legalizing" for the Erie; Rohr the maestro 
of Cleveland's finest restaurant of the same name! 
Also met up with in New Orleans were Thcon 

Fraacb "Frcndir" Dobogne, of Memphis, Tennes­
see, and Tommy Green, of Houston, Texas; prob­
ably a lot more '27 characters around, but I 
cotUdn't get into the \^eux Carre to dig *em out! 
Richaid "Red" Smith—"at liberty" from his 

line-<»aching job u-ith the New York Giants to 
transact baseball business—is filling in Saturdays 
and Sundays scouting future talent and opposition 

for the Giants. Red had a personal tn^cdy In 
his life recently—when his wonderful wife passed 
on: please remember her in your prayers! 
And the other "Red" Smith—Walter Wellesley, 

that is—seems to be spending his time these days 
at horse shou-s in Kfadison Square Garden and 
following the Army football team as he continues 
to turn out that wonderful prose for the New York 
Herald-Trib! 
Jade Hicolc, that refugee from Hancock, Michi­

gan, who uishes folks would spell his name right, 
is with Hotpoint, 570 Lexington Avenue, New 
York 22—and without that trusty hockey stick! 
Jack's firm was responsible for Notre Dame football 
broadcasts over WMCA, New York, this past sea­
son . . . broadcasts I was privileged to do; and, 
herewith a message of thanks to Jadt Hicok for 
his aid in seeing to it that alumni and friends in 
the New York area got all the games, at home 
and away, through Hotpoint and General Electric 
Television and Radio's sponsorship of them. 
Add quick takes: Ed DcClercq is living in South Bend now; so is Maurice '*Paddy" Cohen, very active in C.I.O. work here at Studebaker's. Fritzy Wilson is a regular visitor, from Pittsburgh, check­ing up on the steady flow of western Pennsyh-anla footbiUlers he manages to steer to Notre Dame! Scrap Iron Young has \mtten a book about his Notre Dame experiences, that should be getting published before too long—the Scrapper is training athletic teams at the University of San Francisco. And John McBride is a faculty member at McAdoo High School, KfcAdoo, Penn5>ivanla—doing nicely, thank you, and still spreading the name and fame of Notre Dame! 
BUI Brandenburg I ran into on the top deck of the Notre Dame press box, %vhere Bill whiles away Saturday afternoons at home games directing Avild eyed radio men to their correct pews. 
And, as this is written, prior to the Iowa game, I'm looking forward to renewing old times with the likes of Leo Herbert, Emmett Barron and Larry "Moon** MulUns around Davenport, Iowa, No­vember 16. 
Try to have a report on that, and other happen-in<rs for your next issue: how about s^velling It ^vith YOUR report? 
Don Sdil, '27, now with the national Association of Manufacturers in the public relations depart­ment, is at present traveling—promoting a ne^^* "visual economics" program. 
BIRTHS 

To Mr. and Kfrs. Joseph A. Gartland, Jr. (Cam­bridge, Mass.), a daughter, Sept. 26. This evens it up, with two boys and two girls. 
Voor class secretary, Joe Boland, Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Indiana. 
1928 
I am sure that the sudden death of John McMaboD in Pittsburgh on Sept. 15 was a terrible shock to his many friends in the Class of '28 and is a great loss to our class and to Notre Dame. As you know, John was Managing Director of the Industrial Hygiene Foundation of Mellon In­stitute at the time of his death. A reporter in the Pittsburgh Press summarized John's profes­sional life in the following words: "The man who bad led a fight that saved thousands of workers from death in the past fourteen years died at work yesterday." Our teacher. Father Laurence Broughal, C.S.C., eloquently described John's life in the following words in the Notre Dame Reli­gious Bulletin of Sept. 28, 1950: 
"He died of a heart attack on the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows as he left his office to attend a staff meeting. A quick thinking associate fetched a priest from the nearby cathedral who gave him the last rites. As he slumped to the floor he held in his left hand a sheaf of papers and, in that first sharp thrust, his right hand grasped for his beads in his coat pocket. That final conscious gesture sums up the guiding principles of his life. 
**He never made his religion obtrusive but he 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

tion in June ia New York. Ytm n a
The Capital Club's Dinner for the Law Alunnni 
editor of^io d Industiy BfagazKMc. 
Notre Dame Law Alumni at the Assodadoa's annual gathering, this year in Waslungton, 
D. G. The Law Aluinni Association meets yearly during the proceedings of the convention of the American Bar Association. Alunmi Director William Jones, '28 was duurman. 
always made it felt by ^vord and example. He dealt nith men who were the makers or controllers of millions yet he was singularly untouched by the making of money for itself. He never sought or made headlines in the generally popular sense but the work he did blazoned afar in lessened dangers deep in mines, before flaming furnaces or wherever men toil with hazards to their lives. 
*'Hc had three loves—his family, *»is work and Notre Dame. The inspirations he got here as a student, he kept refreshed by frequent contacts. His greatest joy was the organization and promo­tion of the annual weekend retreat at the Pas­sionist Monastery in Pittsburgh for the Notre Dame men of that area. Six of them were his pallbearers. His burial was on the fifteenth anniversary of his marriage. That day he was to have presided at a meeting of the eastern governors of the Notre Dame Endowment Foundation. Our prayers for him will bring comfort to his valiant wife and their sons, John and Michael." 
John, as you know, made many significant con­tributions to our class activities. He worked closely with Bcmie Garber on the excellent publicity pro­gram carried out in preparation for our 20-year reunion. He got out on his own at least one mailing to you at that time. Many of the in­novations at our reunion, such as the class caps, were suggested by John McMahon. Often Avhen I faced a deadline without news for this column, I called upon John for help and he never failed me. All of you will want to remember John in vour prayers. I would like to suggest that we keep in mind the possibility of having one of his sons ser\-c the Mass for the deceased classmates at our 23-year reunion in 1953. 
John Wallace recently moved from Calumet City, III., to 240* Gardner Place, Glendale 6, Calif. John represents the Midwest Chemical Co. of De­troit on the Pacific Coast. I was pleased to hear that John's eldest daughter is now Sister Mary Jean Vianncy at St. Mary*s, Notre Dame. It is the first report that I have had of a daughter of a '28 man having entered the religious life. Please let me know if there are others. John also has a daughter who is a freshman at Immaculate Heart College in Ho^y^^•ood, another at Holy Family High School in Glendale and a fourth daughter at Mother Cabrini School in Burbank. John men­tioned that he recently had lunch with Vrnce McNally, *27, ^vhcn his Philadelphia Eagles were there to play the Rams. Present also were Paul Johnson, '26, and Jimmie Phclan, *19. 
Dr. William J. McGee writes from Keokce, Va., where he is doing contact work for t^vo large coal companies and has a large private practice. Bill was graduated in medicine at St. Louis Univ. in 1933. He practiced in Missouri several years and spent 6 years with the Army Medical Corps. He practiced about one year in Pennsylvania following the war and is now in his second year in South­western Virginia. Bill married a South Bend girl and they have a son 15 and a daughter 13. He hopes to attend our 25-year reunion in 1953. 

November-December, 1950 
Ron Rich reports that he saw an announcement in a technical magazine that Richard A. (Dick) Weppttcr has been appointed sales engineer for corrosion resistant chemical construction materials in Delaware,. Maryland, Virginia and parts of West Virginia and New Jersey for Atlas Mineral Prod­ucts Co. of Mertztown, Pa. Ron mentioned that he had a nice visit with Henry Persyn recently. Hank is still with Rcilly Tar & Chemical in In­dianapolis and stopped at Notre Dame enroute to Oregon for a ^-acation. He hoped to see his broth­ers, Al ('27) and Chuck (*36) both of whom arc with Tidewater Associated Oil Co. in California. Ron also ad%'ised that Charley ^ViUiams is an en­gineer with U. S. Rubber Co. in Mishawaka and lives in South Bend. 
I was pleased to know that Ron Rich has joined the group of '28 men with sons at Notre Dame. His son, Dan, began his study of chemical engineering this fall. Ron, as you know, is head of the Department of Chemical Engineering at Notre Dame. I believe Ron has two other chil­dren, a boy and a girl. 
Father Charles F. Hamel, C.S.C, favored us with a letter from the University of Portland, Portland, Oregon, giving us the following excellent report on the seminarians in our class: 
"As I recall, there were five seminarians who became Holy Cross priests graduated in the Class of '28. We have been and still are scattered from the Atlantic to the Pacific, undoubtedly to share the fine class and school spirit of '28 with as many potential frandidates for Notre Dame as possible. Father George BcnagHa, C.S.C. is Superior of Our Lady of Holy Cross Seminar>' in North Easton, Mass.; Father Norman Johnson, C.S.C, is an editor of the Bengalese Foreign Mission Magazine in Wash­ington, D. C ; Father Robert Woodward, C.S.C., is a rector at Notre Dame; Father Francis Qninn, C.S.C, is chaplain at French Hospital in New York City; your correspondent has been happily and gainfully, I hope, engaged at the University of Portland for the past twelve years. As prin­cipal of our preparatory school for four years^ I was able to recommend some fifteen graduates to Notre Dame without feeling that I was showing undue loyalty and favoritism to our Alma Mater.'* 
Father Hamel mentioned that three of the five former seminarians made the first five-year reunion, but unfortunately none was able to be present for our 20-year reunion in 1948. I trust that all of them will be present for our 25-ycar reunion in 1953 as well as Fathers Mulreany and Fitzgerald, ^vho attended our 20-year reunion, and Father McSbane, S.J., who has not been able to make any of our reunions thus far. 
Bill Dooley tells me that Francis N. Branson is executive assistant for the National Confection­ers* Assodation of the U. S. with ofiSces at 1 N. LaSalle St., in Chicago. Frank is very generous and cooperative in sending material regarding his association for the use of Bill Dooley as Placement Director of the Notre Dame Placement Bureau. Frank said he has seen Jim Jones '27 at a conven­
Al JotMOtt of Niles, liirhigaa, replied to wcf request for news fron Altoa, HL Sinc^ Al «oU Us retail bnnness in Niles in 1946 he has becm tnnd­ins in nine of the midwest and northwest states. His retail business was leather goods and that k the line he is in now. Al mcntioaed that he saw Angle Gnaa in LaCrosse reccntlr. The vmt wan short as At^c was leaving for Rochester where his dau^ter had undergone surgery. Au ^ reported that Art PfffhficH had stopped for a visit this summer. Abo that Kar Kiser, *37, of South Bead had been there. Al JofcaHHt has two daa^ters» ages 10 and 15. Al's father, who is ncaraag his 99th btrtlidar, lives with them in Niles. Al men­tioned that be saw Vince Ball at his store in Plym­outh recently. Al obncloded fay reqnestiag tut to persuade Ray Tnaua, J^m Keam, Joe ^fiiJin, Dare GaMoa and Ed Fma to iqwak up. Ed FO B reported in the last issue of die Ahmuna irfiidh I am sure Al received shortly after he wrote to me. I tried without success to get a report fraai Dave Gifaaai in October, 1918, and again in No­vember, 1949, and from Jim Kcaias in September, 1949. I have talked to Ray Tnaoa aeveial toaet as he is with the Chicago Board of £dncatioa. 
While in South Bend on business in September, I met George O'Briea and Ids son, age 5. George is c^Krating the Roseland Pharmacy in Roselaad on the Nnes Hi^wsy between Notre Dame aad Niles. I had lunch in Chicago with Bffl Ifarphy recently. He had just returned from the North CaroUna game where he saw Joe Blosrity, Ed Rafter, Turn Traa^iber and Frank McCarthy. Last summer while oa vacatitm. Bill vinted George Sargas in Wheeling, West Vir^nia. Bill was rem­iniscing about his army days and mentioned that be had seen only two *28 men m all of his army travels. Bob Kaox and hfarty Ryaa. 
Kn Joaes sent me a newspaper cluing of Ae death^of John McMahon and mentioned how sbockn he was to hear of Ji^'s death. Bill recalled that among the many fine th&igs Joha did for his classmates was to assist in putting on our successftd 20-year retmion. Bill's attention was called to John's death by Father Normaa Jokuoa, C.S.C., editor of The Bengalese. Bill observed that Father Johnson continues to look as young as he ^ d back in 1928 and possesses the same buoyant spirit. Bill reported that they had a great Notre Dame Law Association luncheon in Wasfaingtcm in September. 
Art Stenins, Professor of Education, Wayne Uni­versity, also wrote that he was extremely sorry to hear ajbout John's death. Art observed that Jc^m u-as an individual with outstanding ability. John and Art were mutually interested in safety educa­tion. I recall that John called my attention several years ago to the work that Art vras doing in that field 
X was sorry to hear about the death of onr old Spanish teacher. Father McKeoa. 
A friend from Fort Wayne gave me a report on Henry Haslcy who u practicing law in Fort Wayne, Ind., under the firm name of Hasley and Eggers. Henry has three children, ^es 16, 12 and 4. He has been very active in the Knights of Columbus, having ser\'cd as Grand Knight, State Deputy, Faithful Navigator and trustee of the Gibanlt Home for boys. 
One of my graduate students at Loyola University gave me some information on Dr. Joha Wordea who is head of the department of biology at St. Bonaventure (N. Y.) College. John received his Pfa.D. from the University of Buffalo in 1943 and is author of a '^Manual of Vertebrate Embryology." John has three children, ages 12, 9 and 5. 
lo a Normaa passed along the foUomng from 19323 Mendota, Detroit 21, Michigan: "Have been with General Motors here in Detroit for 15 years— for the past six years on the Piditic Relatioas Staff. Recently, have had charge of distribution of such items as printed copies of talks by members of the various Executive Groups and by Henry Taylor the well known Radio Cmnmentator. Also, we handle distribution of industrial materials sndh as booklets, pamphlets and other items of ednca^nal and informative nature for internal and/or pidilic consumption. 
"Over the past two years I have ^lent three months each year in New York worUng on a spe­cial assignment in connection with the GM ^to ­mobile Show. While there last winter I attended one New York Club meeting with George Croa­geyer. As you probably know, he is with Metro­politan Life and has been a' fixture there since graduation. George is quite a host and wc man­aged to get together several times. 
"For many years have been in fairly close con­

tact with Neil Amiot at Wyandotte. Neil is very 
active in civic and business circles out there where 
he runs a thri«ng and highly successful cleaning 
business. He has a nice little family, a boy and 
a girl, and resides in a beautiful home on Grossc 
He. 
"Margaret and I drove cut to California while 

on vacation recently and on the way back came 
through Fort Wayne, Ind , where we stopped long 
enough for me to get in a little \-isit with Frank 
McCarthy on the phone. Wc arranged lo meet 
him and his wife at the Carolina game, but some­
how or other missed them. Wc are planning on 
attending the Michigan State game. 
"I still hold high in my memory- that wonderful week-end spent on the campus at the time of our 20-ycar reunion. The committees. I thought, prac­tically knocked themselves out planning and con­ducting all of the events and my thanks go to you and to the indi^'idual mentbcr> who >torkcd so hard and long to see that everything cHcIied. I Jook for>%'ard with great anticipation to attending the 25th and if Go<I permits, I'll he there.'* 
Vic Fiwhcr broke his long 'iilcncc with a letter fiOMi 30 Ir».t|uiiis Diivr- Briehn.aicri, N. V. Vtc was with the N. Y. Central R. R. alter graJualion until those ver>- familiar "Greetings" v.crc deliv­ered to him in January, '41. He drew the infantr>-. whicli .'tccoiding to Vic was probably because they knew he had tried out for the cross-conntrv team. After a stint in the Mediterranean Theater (North Afrii^, Sicily and Italy) he returned home and spent the remainder of the war in the U. S. A. Vic is now working with the X. Y. State Dcpt. of Public Works as a civil engineer. Dick Lloyd, '27, woWcs out of that office, too.­
Vic rept.rt; that his family has two prospects for XD classes of *66 and '69 but none for St. Mar>*'5. He mentioned that Dr. Dan Bradley of Amitj-ville is looking after the health of the family and is keeping it well above par. Vtc saw Ed F. Brennan recently on Fifth Ave. and reports that £d hzs a family of five daughters. 
Vic requested the use of the column to eNpress his pleasure in reading **Red** DaWd's report on his activities since '28 in the May-June column. \nc said it was the first report he had read on any of the grad-^ in C.E. '28 and he hopes not the t.isr. Vic asked me to include for Red's bencHt that he can still tip the scales at 145. that beer hasn't had the effect Red said it would, but that a quarter-mile jog would kill him. 
Joe Kfadden \%"rotc from Fort Wayne. Indiana, where he is a diWsional manager in the Mortgage Loan Dept. of the Lincoln National Life Insurance Company. Joe has been with this company since graduating. His work involves mortgage loan in­vestments. He has been married since 1934 and has two boys, one 9 years and one 3 years. Joe mentioned that Frank McCarthy is with the Evan­geline Milk Co. and that Bernard Scfaub operates the Isolation Hospital in Fort Wayne. A few months ago Joe was in Denver and called Ed Finn in Salida. Colorado. He saw Jim Keams from Benton, Wis., at a football game last year. Joe said he enjoyed the twenty-year reunion and ex­pressed the hope that we have a good turnout for the reunion in 1953. Joe inquired about Al Johnson and A! Mahar. Joe concluded his letter fay sug­gesting that anytime any of the boys arc in Fort AVa>Tie, he would like vcr>* mucli to have them call him at the Lincoln Life or at his home at 4801 Old Mill Road. 
I was in Ohio recently and called Art Glcason who lives near Stow, Ohio, and works in .A.kron at Goodrich Rubber Co. I was sorry to hear that Art's wife, Freda, fell recently and broke her neck. The Gleasons have a son and daughter at Kent State University, a daughter in high school and a son in grade school. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Board of Directors has established a new sj-stem by which the duties and responsibilities that have formerly been carried by the class secretaries will now be handled by a com­plete set of officers for cacli class. At the request of the Alumni Board, as Secretary- of the Class, I appointed the following nominating committee to select candidates for Class officers: William F. Cronin, Chairman, Bernard Gaii>er, Robert Hamil­ton, John Antiu, Adrian Lopez and Dr. John Franklin. This Committee submitted the following list of candidates: President, John F. Frederick and Louis F. Buckley; Re^onal Vice-President for the East, Robert A. Hamilton and Bernard J. Bird; 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
MR. JOHN M. GRIMMINS 

Assistant Chief Counsel and Assist­ant Manager of the Law Department is the new title Koppers Company, Inc., gave Mr. Crimmins last month. 
Mr. Crimmins came to Koppers in 1942 with a wide experience in legal work. After graduation in 1933 from the University he spent several years at private practise in Anderson, Ind., serv­ed five years with the legal department of the Reconstruction Finance Corpora­tion and two years with the Defense Plant- Corporation. 
Mr. Crimmins is married, a native of Chattanooga, Tenn., and is the father of three children. He is presently living in Pittsburgh. 
for the Far West, Arthur L. Canty and Robert L. Nickells; for the Middlewcst, Edward P. McKeown and Thomas F. Byrne; for the South, Bolan E. Burke and James T. Canizaro; Secretary, Leo R. AfcInt>Te and Gcoi^e A. Scfaeuer; treasurer, Ber­nard Garber and Thomas Mahan. The Alumni office will conduct an election by mail. I trust you will all return your ballots promptly so that the results of the election can be announced in the next issue of the Alumnus. It will be possible under this s>"stem for the class to function as an estab­lished unit and to begin work on our 25-ycar re­union plans. Your new officers will 5er\'e until 1933. 
I wish' to thank Bill Cronin and the members of his Committee for their work on behalf of the Class in selecting these nominees. Bill spent con­siderable time in contacting prospective nominees by letter and by long distance telephone calls in an effort to obtain the acceptance of two candidates for each office. 
Since the Alumni Office kindly prepared an up­to-date class roster for the nominating committee and for distribution to the new officers as soon as they arc elected, a limited number of extra copies was prepared. I will be glad to send a copy as long as the supply lasts to any classmate in ex­change for some news for this column. If you haven't seen any of the fellows, at least let us hear about your work, your family, etc., in your letter requesting a copy. Those who ha%'e sent me news recently arc entitled to a copy by merely letting me know that they want one. My address is 4700 W. Adams St., Chicago 44, III. 
As per usual, I saw ver>- few classmates at the Michigan State game. Mrs. Buckley and I had dinner with Mr. and Mrs. Bill Jones that week* end. Bill mentioned that he had seen Gcoi ^ Coury from Florida and Chicago, Joe Morrissey and Jolu Frederick. Mr. and Mrs. Frank Dono\*an were also at the game. Frank, as you know, has a son at Notre Dame. 
I wish to thank John Wallace, Bill McGec, Ron Rick, Father Hamcl, Al Johnacm, Lou Nonnan, Vic Fifdier and Joe Madden for their response to my request for news this month, thus making another column possible. I also ^preciated receiv­ing a note from Mrs. John McMahon thanking me for my letter of sympathy which I extended for the Class of 1928. In response to my request she prcHuised to keep me advised of John's two boys, as I know John's many friends will want to hear of them through this column in years to come. One son, John, is fourteen and a freshman at St. Mary's of -the Mount High School in Pittsburgh. The second son, Michael, is eleven and is in the sixth grade. 
Martm V. CaUagy recently resigned as attorney­in*chief of the Legal Aid Society, a legal society concerned with advising and representing persons unable to afford the services of an attorney in pri\*ate practice. 
Call^gy had ser\'ed in this position for the past three years. He formerly held positions as justice of the Domestic Relations Court, and secretary of the New York City Commission for the Temporary* Care of Children. 
Your Class Secretary-: Louis F. Buckley, 4700 
W. Adams St., Chicago 44, Illinois. 
1929 
From Don J. Plunkett: The class of 1929 congratulates one of its mem­bers on ele\*ation to high office at the University. Father James Norton, C.S.C, was recently ap­pointed Vice-President in charge of academic af­fairs to replace Father HoH-ard Kenna, C.S.C. Father Norton is a former member of the Dept. of Economics and is a native of Indianapolis. During the weekend of the Mich. State game a large number of '29'ers were present. Judge I\'an La Blanc of Alpena, Joe Mulhall (Mulhall Lum­ber Co., Owosso), Joe Dautreroont (Springfield Construction Co., Ohio}, Bill Crotty (Automotive Products Corp., Quincy}, Joe Whalen (Saverv Hotel. Des Moines), Bob Newbold, U. S. Marshal. So. Ind.), Dr. John Vaicfaulis (U. of 111.), Norb Ber^ioff (Wayne Pumps, Fort Wayne), Judge Har­old Steinbacker (Battle Creek), Earl Leach (Grand Rapids), Hu ^ McManigal (Acme Construction Co., Xliami), Joe Digan (Digan Castings, Logans­port) and Jack Elder (Sinclair Oil, CIex*eland). Many others were present and I wish you would drop roc a note on this. 
Judge Ivan Le Blanc (Municipal Judge for 10 years—^.Mpena, Mich.) and wife Mar>' (Manion) dropped by for a chat. The Le Blancs have a family of Mary Jeanne 12, Julie 5 and Joel 3 years. Ivan reports seeing Pat McDougal, Clerk of Recorders Court, Alpena. Pat and his wife Mary have a daughter ?>Iar%* Pat, about 12. Also, that Dennn O'Keefe, '31 (baseball) is Prosecuting Attorney of .Arenac County, Standish, Mich. The O'Keefes (Dennis and Blanche) have five children. 
Joe Whalen (Des Moines) passes the word along that Jack Forge, who was recently with the truck and tire division of Goodyear, has been transferred to Omaha with a ver)* nice promo.ion. 
Bob Newbtrfd drops a note that he and his family attended the Indiana-ND game. 
Mickey McMabon and Ann sends a letter telling of the fine ND celebration and rally before the Tulane game in New Orleans. 
Father Otey Windiester sends a card—"I'll see you all at the Na\'y game." 
Murray Glasgow (Glasgow Brewing Co.—Nor­folk) mails in the reprints on the Glasgow Sports Album every Saturday 6 p.m.—^VTAR—TV. .All of the outstanding sports figures arc presented— Rockne, Cobb, Ruth, Cagle, Dempsey, etc. 
Norm Hartzer and wife Lelia dropped in last week and we had a 10 o'clock coffee chat. Norm is Gen. Manager of the Frederich O'Brien Co. in Los Angeles. Norm would like to get the '29'ers tc^cther and fly in for the 25th reunion in '54. 
Paul Bartkolomew, Agnes and family drove to the Northwest this stuimer and had a delightful trip. They spent an enio>'able evening with Marion and Jim Brady in Idaho Falls. Jim reports that 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Bill Kreis and family spent a-few da>-s on the wav to Yellowstone Park, about mid summer: 
Bartholomew reports that he had a chat recently with Norm Hartzer and Hugh McManigal who flew up for the State game. Also, that he had a letter from Mark Kirchncr of ^Vinston-Salcm, N. C. He is now feeling well and doing well in civilian su­pervisory work for the Na\'y. 
Jim Gallagher (Business Manager of the Chicago Cubs) senfls an interesting and very newsy letter: 
"I should have answered your letter when I got it. I would have been tn much better mood. We were looking, upward in the National League stand­ingSj and figuring that six games out of first place was a good place to be for the stretch run. Now we're looking down, and arc thanking heaven for Pittsburgh. I don't think we can finish behind Pittsburgh, but who can tell what will happen. Baseball is truly a CRAZY BUSINESS. As you know, I am business manager of the Chicago Cubs. 
*'I joined the Cubs ten years after putting in twelve years as sports writer on the Chicago Herald-American. I have been married since 1933 to a long-suffering lovely from St. Boniface, Manitoba, named (at the time) Eva Chittick. All my friends agree that Eva is by far the nicest two-thirds of our family. We have one boy, Ttmmy, who has Just passed his eighth birthday and who I hope -will learn to write soon. 
''You ask about club activities, but I just havcn^t had time to belong to any clubs, outside of the Lake Shore Club of Chicago. Of course, I'm a member of numerous gilded saloons which require you to advance and be recognized before they'll take your dough. One of these, incidentally, is the Club Boyar, a ver>* nice rendezvous on Chicago's near North Side, which is operated for his own amusement by Paul Pfohl (ND '21). 
'"Paul is a top-ranking executive with RCA, here in Chicago. 
"l run occasionally into Harold Klein, a hand­some Dcs Moines banker, and Joe Whalen, who manages the Hotel Saver>* in Dcs Moines. The Cubs own the Des Moines club in the Western league. Richard (Red) Smith worked for us for the last six years, in addition to his professional football coaching. He left us last Spring to join his pal Charlie Grimm in the Dallas ball club. 
''Red was through here a few weeks ago looking for ball players. He also went up to Milwaukee to see Freddie Miller. Red's a smart boy. 
*'Bcrt Metzger lives in my apartment building and occasionally helps the Notre Dame Foundation by playing me gin rummy. I got ashamed of tak­ing my friends' money at gin a couple of years 
ago, and -now turn their contributions over to the Foundation. This might be an idea for some of the other boys who like to play cards or bet on foot­ball games. Bert has a lovely family of two boys and tw*o girls. His oldest boy. Buddy, is playing football at Loyola Academy in Chicago. He's bigger than Bert, but not so agile. 
**Heard the other day from Harry 0*BoyIe, who is doing a good job here for one of the automobile manufacturers, Ponttac, I believe. Occasionally see Johnny Nyikos, who's with Chevrolet in Cambridge, ^fass. Ran into Bsniie Nalty and his charming missus when they came up for the last Army-Notrc Dame game a couple of years ago. Bcrnie Iiasn't changed much from the days when Father Stack used to paral>'ze him in histor>' classes. 
''Some old-timers may remember Bill Dunn, South Bend boy who worked on the News-Times witit me and whom 1 succeeded as sports editor there. He traveled with MacArthur all through the Pacific war as correspondent for Columbia, stayed in Manila to become vice-president of a radio station there, and. has now popped back to Korea as reporter for National Broadcasting Co. Speaking of Dunn, Bert Dtmn-, the old slugger, got into professional baseball this year with Salt Lake City in the Pioneer League. 
**I hope his team is doing better at the box office than on the field. Bert has done some fine work in. recent years in developing a technique for teaching baseball playing to youngsters. I see quite a bit of Jimmy Keams, who came out of ND in '32 to become an ace sports writer for the Chicago Daily News. Jimmy has a swell wife and three kids, and is running his own public relations office in Chif:ago. 
"That's about all I can pass on. Most of my contacts with ND men arc those who are in coach-iii? or otherwise connected w*ith athletics, and everyone can follow them in the daily papers. Hope to see you when I get down for the games 
Noy ember-December, 1950 
this Fall, 'but I usually drive in at game time, and 
gallop back to Chicrago as soon as the game is 
over, in order to stay out of trouble. That got 
us into trouble after the USC game last fall. We 
were in such a hurry that we got pinched in 
East Chicago. 
"B'lt it was Metzgcr's fault. He was talking. 
All the best to the '29'ers." 
Gus Dieter (787 So. Willctt, Memphis, Tenn.) 
sends this letter about his work: 
*'I just received my copy of the September-October Alumnus, and note that your information as to my ^vork and whereabouts is slightly out of date. I left Tulsa, where I was employed by the Corps of Engineers, in August 1949, and am now-located in Memphis, Tennessee. 
"My present position is Secretary-Treasurer of the Miss. Valley Engineering and Construction Co. Since coming to Memphis I have attended a couple of meetings of the Notre Dame Club—one of them on the occasion of Father Murphy's visit this sum­mer. I don't believe there's a member of the Class of '29 in the local club. 
"I've been pretty much out of touch with ND since I left in '29. Haven't been back to the campus since. I'll make it for the 23th .. . I get a great kick out of reading of the careers of the former "Badinites" such as Louie Sinclair, Father Jim Rizer, "Mink" Sullivan, Joe Abbott, IVofessor Plunkett, etc., etc. Keep up the good work. Best regards to Father Thornton and anyone else up there who might remember me." 
Thomas C. Murphy (Judge of Probate for the past 16 years—Detroit) writes an excellent letter: 
"Your kind inquiry was gratefully received. It ser\Td to recall many fond memories of my years at Notre Dame, and of the many fine friends and associates of the class of *29. My work keeps me ver>' active in the various legal associations, such as the American Bar Association, American Judica­ture Society, Micliigan State and Detroit Bar As­sociations. 
"Also as judge, the following positions are held sometime during term of office. Chairman of the Wayne County Election Commission, member of the Board of Trustees of the Wayne County Training School for Delinquent Children, and Chairman of the Sinking Fund of Wayne County, and of the Soldiers and Sailors Relief Commission, which en­tails a great deal of extra work, but all are vcr>' interesting and bring you in contact with many of your fellow citizens. 
"The Knights of Columbus is really the only official fraternal organization in which I take an active part. I am a Fourth Degree member, and just recently received my silver pin from the Com­mandcry in commemoration of being an active member for twenty-five years. You know, no doubt, that I have been married for twenty-three years. 
"My wife, Margaret, is a former South Bend girl. We have one daughter, Mary Ellen, who is now thirteen. She attends the Sacred Heart Con­vent which is operated by the Madams. Unfor­tunately, my hobbies arc nil, which is due entirely to over-enthusiasm for my work on the bench, which I must endeavor to correct as I grow older. 
*'It was our good fortune to x-acation in Ireland last summer. It was really an experience to visit the land of my ancestors. You probably remember Walter J. McAloon. *29. He is now practicing law and has an office in the Peoples State Bank Building, Pontiac, Michigan; also, Charles L. Burke, *29, who, the last time I heard, was asso­ciated with Mr. McAloon at the same address." 
Jim Dtgan (Digan Sales Corp., Logansport) summarizes his doings and news: "These past few months have been busy ones since I am spending all my time as a Manufacturers Representative on castings of all kinds. I have been working with Industrials and they of course have been picking up fast this summer. Still living at 915 Michigan Avenue in Logansport but I am only home over the weekends. 
"Most of my time is spent in the Chicago .Area where I live at 4827 So. Lake Park Ave. In Cleveland a few weeks ago I had a nice visit with Chuck Rohr, '30. Then recently in Chicago saw 'Spike' McAdams, '31, and we have set a future date to thrash over old times. 
"Also had dinner recently with Frank J. Smith, '37, who many of you remember ran the Library for SUE years. He is doing fine as an attorney as is Johnny A. McElligott, '33, another Chicago attor­ney. I have been doing some work with Laidlaw Company of Indianapolis and find that Paul O'Con­nell, '49, is with them. 
The neuest Irbb paut of the family is KSithleen 
Elizabeth who was bom on St. Patrick's day this 
year. This makes three girls. Dick Haugh, ^29, 
drops in frequently on the weekends. I was sfunT 
not to be able to come 19 for Alumni Days thb 
year but am planning big for '54.'* 
Joseph SmSctanka (Attorney—Smietanka, Nowak 
and Garrigan, 69 W. Washington St., Chicago) 
writes: 
*'I read the '29 column each issue and enjor the 
reference to sons of our classmates who have de­
cided Notre Dame is the place for their formal 
education—also the still actK*e birth columns. I 
suppose that I fall in the category of average 
achievement to the extent that I have not accom­
plished anything impressive. 
"The practice of law commenced in 1^3 and 
was not interrupted by military service. It has 
not been spectacular but has been sufficient to prcH 
vide ordinary comforts and surroundings in which 
to raise two dau^ters, Suzette, 13, and Linda 8. 
Both are musically inclined . . . my wife, the for­
mer Marie Fox, of Rolfe, Iowa, possesses talent 
in that direction. 
"I have participated through the years in multi­
tudinous activities of a civic nature, some political 
but largely altruistic .. . and K.C , Chi-men, 
ChandKr of CcHnmerce, Co-4^, Political, 111. Bar 
Assn., and Chicago Bar nad ND Cli^. My former 
rocMumates were: Ray Drymalski, now a munic^ial 
court of Chicago judge, Bert Komn , now attorney 
for the Board of Election Commissionsrs of Chi­
cago; Cy Jones of Allentown, Pa., who came into 
Chicago for luncJi 10 years ago and then dis^>­
peared. 
"EU Boras of Oakland, California, not seen since 
school days; Denar Sweate, *30, possibly in' Texas; 
Jim Lydoa, '29, now in California. My last con­
tact with ND activities was the Catholic All-
America award dinner at the Drake Hotel a few 
months ago where I took as a guest, Curtis Keis­
ling, *49, a neighbor. 
"&fy pc^ularity with the seating committee was 
established by my being assigned to the enemy West 
Point table. Also have an opportunity during the 
fall season to see a lot of professional football at 
Wrigley field .. . with particular emphasis on 
Johnny Lojadc and George Coaaor. Will see you 
no later than 1954." 
Dr. Gorrin H. Hodgson (Diseases of the Chest-Mayo Bros. Foundation—Rochester) sends a note along telling of his vacation in the Canadian Wil­derness, and his family John 13, Stephen II, Clague 4 and Mrs. Hfxigson (Florence Pitman). Corrin sends best wishes to Father Lou Thornton and signs up for our 25th reunion in 1954. 
Secy.—Dr. Corrin received his MD from Minne­sota and has an MS degree in medicine, interned at Cincunnati Gen. Hosp., is acti%-e in AMA, Fellow Amer. Coll. Phys., Minn. Si>c Int. Med., Sigma Xi, member Amer. Board of Int. Med., Minn, and Amer. Trudeau Soc., Nu Sigma Nu, major research interest diseases of the chest and internal medicine, instructor in medicine Mayo Foundation. Corrin*s extra-curricular hobbies are golf, fishing, hunting and canoe trips in the Northern Wilderness. 
Larry Stawlcr (I^f. of Elec. Engineering) sends this note across campus: 
"ROSMII T . 0*BrieB, B.S.E.E., '29, was in South Bend August 6 and with his family of wife, Betty, and children Pat, Linda and Deborrah made a'tour of the campus and especially the electrical engineer­ing department. This was OB's first visit to the present engineering building. He was most favor­ably impressed. 
His address is R. R. 5, Northwoods Park, Valpa­raiso, Indiana. He is employed at Chesterton^ In­diana, making electric signs. He will be back for the Mich. State' game and for the next class reunion in '54." 
Dr. Art Fleadag (Pediatrist with offices at 5307 Hyde Park Building, and 10,400 S. Western AI.Y., Chicago) -writes: 
''Just a note to tell you that Ann and I will be at Lake Geneva this summer with our family of Arthur, Mary and Nancy. Boating and Crippled Children Camps are our hobby and interest. I see Paal and Jam Tobta at State Medical meetings dur­ing the year .. . I'd like to hear from Leo Scaa­loa, my old roommate. .. . I have taught at Loyola Medical School and my major research interest is cerebral palsy . . . register me for the 25th reunion and best wishes to the *29ers." 
Secy.—Dr. Art received his M.D. from Rush Medical, U. of Chi. in 1933, interned at < Mercy Hospital, St. Luke's and Presbyterian Hospitals, and is active in Phi Chi, Pediatric Soc, HI. and Chicago Med. Assn., Kiwanis, Woodlawn So. Shore, 
2S 
K. C.,^St. Phillip Neri and ND Club: Dr. Art is founder and director of Mercy Hosp. Cerebral Palsy Clinic, Med. Director of Martha Washing­ton Crippled Children's Home, Director St. Joseph's Home for Friendless, and Kiwanis Tvdn Lake Camp for Crippled Children. 
Father Henry B. Altmann (Pastor of St. Ra­phael's Church—Glasgow, Montana) ^vrites a note of thanks to the members of the class of 1929: ''Your letter came as a real surprise. It was also quite a surprise to find of the resurrection of my old friend Doc Baum. Haven't heard from him for years. I am sure he must owe me several letters at least. For myself I ^vant to tell you that I appreciate the assistance of the class in ans\%'ering the many appeals. I realize that evcr>-body gets these appeals from their own pastors and many other places throughout the country*. It was grand to hear from so many of the fellows. St. Raphael's debt on the new grade school and g^-mnasium is 
slowly going dou-n. At one time it looked like the National debt. 

"We have a beautiful plant here. Our new Church is about 10 years old. We are located here vcr>* close to the Fort Peck Dam on No. 2 high^ray and one of the few stops on the Empire Builder to the west coast. I %%'ant to extend an invitation to the '29*crs and all the Notre Dame men to stop off on their Avay to the Park or the west coast. 
"Don, it is hard to realize that our class finished in '29. Of course I only took my first two years as a Pre-Med and then went to the St. Paul Seminary in St. Paul, Minnesota. I was ordained here in Great Falls, Montana—June, 1934. Even the 16 years as a priest seems like a long time and still when I look back it seems to be a very short time. Must be old age coming on. I'm planning on being back for our 25th reunion." 
Joe Radigan (Attorney—Abaticll, Radigan and Dcllivcmeri of Rutland, Vermont) \%-rites about his activities: 
"With complete humility and at your request, I submit the following: Married to Florence S. Sabourin, February 25, 1945, while in ser\icc. No cliildren. Engaged in general practice of law, admitted in 1930. Alderman, City of Rutland, starting third two-year tcnn. U. S. Commissioner for District of Vennont. Grand Knight, Rutland Council 202, KnighU of Columbus. 
Vice President, Rutland County Bar Assoc, Mem­ber of 4th degree of K. C , Dept. Judge Advocate, 
V.F.W. Member of American Legion and Disabled American Veterans. Director of one small corpora­tion, but counsel for several local concerns. In armed forces Feb. 1941 to Aug. 1945. With II Corps Artillery (17th F.A.); Service in England, Algeria, Tunisia, Sicily and Italy. 
"Several interests with Notre Dame ever present. A brother in St. Louis summers at his cottage in Wisconsin; hope to \'isit him this year, and return through South Bend. If not, might see you at the Nav>' game in Cleveland. You have a standing invitation to visit me in Vermont. I trust that time and circumstance will be kind to all '29 men." 
John B. Sullivan (Director of Education, Execu­tive Dept., State of N. Y.) writes about his activi­ties and ND men: 
"As for my own activities, I have been in the field of education for the last 14 years. Aly present position, to which I was appointed in 1946, is a most challenging one. I am Director of Education, Executive Dept. State of Nevv York, State Com­mission against discrimination. I live in Tuckahoe, 
N. Y., the locale of a great many Notre Dame men: 
"John Barclay, '27, Tom Lantry, '30, Jack Hoyt and Jolm Shea, '33, are fellow commuters to New York City. Dr. Tcnciice J. Donohue, '28, is Su­perintendent of schools in Eastchester, N. Y. He served as Lieut. Senior Grade, Aimed Guard Of­ficer in World War II before coming to Eastches­ter. In a later letter I will try to give you some additional information on Notre Dame men in this vicinity. 
"On my infrequent trips to Buffalo, I have had the good fortune to visit with Bishop O'Hara. As we all know, he is doing a magnificent job in the Diocese of Buffalo. I am planning on attending the 25th reunion." 
Secy.—John has written an excellent article "Fair Employment Practice in N.Y." showing that law and education go hand in hand. The article ap­peared in America, March 1950, Vol 82 No. 22. 
John F. P. Bnricc (Dept of Education—Clinton, Mass.) reports on a few'ND men: 
••Patfy Hastiiigs, '30, was recently married to Mary E. Frcel of Clinton. Ed FfaHbin, '28, is in the real estate business. Ed practically owns the 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
MR. ALFRED J. DIEBOLD 

Recently named president of the For­est Lumber Co. of Pittsburgh, Mr. Die-bold is a 1927 graduate of the Univer­sity. 
Since 1929 he has been vice-president and secretary-treasurer of the company which he joined shortly after graduation. In 1945 he took a two-year leave of ab­sence to operate a lumber mill in North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, for the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. 
Mr. Diebold is also secretary of the Tri-Lok Company and of the Hanlon-Gregory Galvanizing Company. 
As an undergraduate he was already arranging things. He introduced Miss Katherine Terry to Bill Dooley, former ALUMNUS editor. Miss Terry is now Mrs. Dooley. 
business district. John T. Burke, '29, is an execu­tive officer with Chambers-Wiswell Advertising Co. Martin Salmon, '28, has a responsible position with the Morton Salt Co. of Worcester. 
Tom Qualters, '29, former personal aide and body guard to the late President Franklin D. Roosevelt, '35, is the new Chief of Police at Keene, 
N. H. Tom has recently been with the U. S. Bureau of Immigration. Don, it was nice hearing from you and give my best regards to P*of. Frank O'Malley, a felloe*' to^vnsman." 
Stephen Scfanrider (Manager of Federal Security 

Agenc>', Tucson, Arizona) writes a fine letter on 
his family nad work. Steve included a picture of 
his family and all members are as fine looking as Steve. 
''After leaving Notre Dame in 1929 I became the State Director of the Boy Life Bureau of the ^Viscon5in State Council Knights of Columbus. I continued in that capacity until the depression curtailed funds for such activities in 1933. Then I ^vent to work for the State of Wisconsin as State Transient Director—^you may remember those days when millions of unemployed people were on the roads looking for work. 
*'When the Social Security program started, I Av*as appointed under civil service as Afanager of the Field Office at Racine, Wisconsin. I remained there until 1946 when I transferred out here to Tucson, Arizona in the same capacity. Incidentally, I was married at the Log Chapel on the Campus March 1, 1930. Hazel and I have three children. My oldest daughter is starting her Junior year at the University of Arizona, majoring in Education. She is an honor student—takes after her mother no doubt. 
'*My son Steve will be a Senior in High School this Fall. He is the President-elect of the Na­tional Honor Society, Tucson High School chapter. He was selected and attended Boys State this sum­mer. That you know is sponsored by the American Legion in each State and is open to honor students. He plays basketball, and will be ready for College in another year. I'd alv%-ays hoped he could attend Notre Dame but he probably will be going to the State University which is within walking distance of our home. 
"I just relinquished the job of president of our Parish Holy Name Society. We have had quite a strenuous program with two big financial drives— one to build a new chivch and the other to raise funds for the first Catholic High School in the city of Tucson. It will open its doors this Fall and my youngest daughter will be a freshman. Golf, bowling, s\Wmming and tennis are my hobbies and I am a 25-year member of the K. of C.'s. 
"Please give my kindest personal regards to Father Raymond Murray in the Sociology Dept. when you see him. Occasionally I see Jim Ikfurphy, '38 (Attorney), Chris Reilly, '35, (Mortician), Cliff Blooni, '48 (Attorney), Dr. Jesse Roth, '14, Tim King, '37 (King's Amusements), Frank Geddeo, '37 (Comptroller—^Rubens), Kfaurice Hedderman, '37 (Santa Fe) and Ted Witz, '29 (Savings and Loan Co.) I*m planning to fly in for the reunion in 1954." 
Dr. Edward S. Post (Psychiatrist and Neurolo­gist at Vet Admin. Hosp., Fort Custer, Afichigan) t*Titcs: 
**I completed two years of Premedical work at ND and received my M.D. at Indiana in 1931. . . . I'd like to hear from Dr. Steve Richtarnc of St. Ix)uis, Missouri. (Secy—^7107 Pershing A\-c.) . . . Marjorie and I have two children, William 20 and Mary 14 years. . . . Plan on mc for the 25th re­union in 1954." 
Secy.—^Dr. Edward received his M.D. at Indiana 

U. School of Med., and interned at Memorial Hos­pital in South Bend; is active in Ph: Beta Pi, Alpha Omega Alpha, Service Fellowship A.M.A., Amer. Psychiatric Assoc., Assoc of Kfilitary Sur­geons of U. S., Mich. Society of Psych, and Neurol., major research interest in Schimophrenia, and Ps>'­chiatry. Aviation and photography are Ed's hobbies. 
Dr. Tinn Feniter (Chief of the Anesthisiolog\* Dept.—^Mcrcy Hospital—Springfield, Mass.) writes: 
"Strictly speaking I guess I am carried on the roll of dass of 1930 since I was graduated in mid yeai^-January 1930. However, my interests, have always been with the '29 class. I have never returned to the campus. Friends tell me I would not recognize the old school. 
It is hard to say when that day vrill come. I am at present on vacation and have managed to find the time to return your note. After 5 years In the Army as Lieutenant, Captain and Major I jnade my home in Springfield, close by Westfield, my old home. At present I am chief of the Anesthesi­ology Department of the Mercy Hospital and am quite happily situated. 
"I see very few ND boys these days, only those at the alumni club meetings. We in this neck of the woods miss the Army game in New York where we would run into many old friends. I shall surely make a sincere attempt to get to the next big reunion." 
Secy.—^Dr. Tom received his M.D. from Tufts In 1934, interned at St. Joseph's Hospital, Lowell, Mass., and Hartford Hospital, Conn., is active in A.M.A.. ND Club, Mass. Med. Soc, Diplomat of the American Board of Anesthesiology, Phi Chi, and is now chief of Anesthesiology Dept. Mercy Hos­pital In Springfield. The Fcrriters (Tom and Clair) have two children Tom Jr. 2 ^ and Mary about four months. At N D Tom roomed with Hubert Hogan, reports seeing Dr. Frank Hand at State Med. meetings, and Inquires about the location of 
Don Hbgaa, formerly of Ashtabula, Ohio. Tom's hobby Is gardening and the Ferriters vacation at Cape Cod. 
JaA Elder (Manager, Sinclair Refining Co., Cleveland) writes a fine letter and here are ex­ccrpts: 
**You and your brother have really got me cov­ered. When I went back to the reunion this year I naturally had to call the class of 1930 MY class as I didn't graduate until Feb. of 1930. However, I went In with the guys of '29 so should have graduated with you guys but as I had a half year of eligibility left I nautrally wanted to use it. And I'm darn glad I did for it paid off to mc. Now I'm a member of the two classes and it works out swell for I get to see twice as many of my old friends as I would ordinarily sec had I been affili­ated with just the one group. 
*'I*m living here in Cleveland, Don, and directing the destinies of the Sinclair Refining Company. I have a lovely wife and family of six children, four daughters and two sons. But it will be a long time before any is at Notre Dame or St. Mary's as the oldest is just eight this month. I'm hoping though that I'll be fortunate enough to live to see them all there and to enjoy the lovely contacts and environments of those two great institutions . . . 
"I spent my time immediately after leaving school helping to build up the National CYO under the fine guidance of Bishop Shcil of Chicago. Then I went into the service, the Na\-y of course (Army was still mad about that run against them in 1929) and did a three-year hitch in blue. Now I'm here and as extracurricular activity am directing the destinies of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland with the help of as fine a bunch of guys as ever broke a bun in the ND dining halls, Tom Byrne, Pat Canny, Ward Leahy, Al Grisanti, Bob Stack, Hugit O'Neill, Tom Cooley, etc. Save me a spot for '54 reunion.*' 
Secy.—This is the first fire reported in our col­Tunn—^Nfarcella and Jim Keating (Ass't U. S. At­torney, South Bend) installed a new gas furnace and promptly called fire station No. 5—damage low, blood pressure high, 
John F. Mitiguy is a wholesale druggist in Bur­lington, Va. The Mitiguys (John and Thelma) live at 20 S. Willard St. and have a family of Patricia 6, Michael 5, Mary Jeanne 3 and Ann about 2 years. 
Bill Wilbur is division cnTincer. for the C. & 
N. W. Railway at Green Bay, Wis. Bill and Genevieve (Campion) have one daughter Jo Ellen about 3 years. 
John V- Smith is Branch Manager for the N. Y. State Insurance Fund (Workmen's Compensation Insurance) Olean, New York. The Smiths (John and Judith) live at 302 W. Sulli\-an St. and have three children. Dale 12, John Jr. 13 and Joan Anne 14 years. They are active in the Bartlett Country Club. Olean Little Theatre Guild, Chamber of Commerce and St. Bonaventure Gridiron Club. 
Lou Regan is operating superintendent of Sears Roebuck and Co. (Mail order plant] in Minneap­olis, Minnesota. Lou and Frances live at 4016 Garfield Ave. and have t^vo children Sharon 11 and Michael J. 14 years. Lou is active in ND Club and Archdiocese Men's Catholic Action Organization. 
Karl Martersteck is Asst. Division >fanagcr of the Great Lakes Dredge and Dock Co. The Mar­terstecks (Karl and Moura Daridouna) live at 19355 Molvem Ave., Rocky River. Ohio and have a family of Ann Terese 10 and Karl Jr. 14 years. Karl is active in ND. Club, K. of C , Lay Legion and Catholic Book Store. 
Charley McCool is probation officer Juvenile Court, Toledo, Ohio. The McColls (Charley and Ger\-a5c) live at 3631 Larchmont Parkway and have a family of Patsy 3. Beverly 6, Charles Jr. 9, Tom 10 and Roberta Rose 12 years. Charley takes part in ND Club, Boy Scouts Committeeman, Holy Name Soc. and K. of C. 
BUI Dunlavey, '30, who attended the reunion this June and is buyer for the A & P Company, Youngs­town, Ohio reports that: John Moran is credit manager for Commercial Scissoring Corp. John and Marian have one child and live on Jennette Dri\-e, Youngstown. 
John Stockpoole is attorney for the Michigan Unemployment Compensation Agency. John and Ruth (of St. Mary's) have five children and live at 14437 Grandmont Road, Detroit. 
Frank Hurley is with the Aluminum Co. of America at Massena and Is Secy, and Treas. of the N. N. Y., ND Club. Frank and Gertrude have sue children, John 19, William 16, Mary 13, Ann 10, Tom 5, and Robert 3 years. The Hurleys live at €2 George Street, and see Joe Bamett and Clayton Tyo during the year. 
NEW LOCATIONS Bob Bust has moved to 21 *'D" Street NW, Ardmore, Oklahoma. BUI Coyne's new address, 237 Audrey Lane SE, Washington, D. C. Joe Dautremont, 2132 Sunnyland Blvd., Spring­
field, Ohio. Frank Doan, 1221 26th Street, Wilmette, Illinois. KeuMlIi KoBop, 1371 Gordon Road, Lyndhurst, 
Ohio. 
November-December, 1950 
RusscU Kuehl, 1322 Woodlawn Blvd., South Bend, Ind. John Leddy, 149 N. Bayview, Freeport, L. L, New York. Dr. Joe ScUIa, 1229 Maiden Court, WUlow Run, Michigan.' Bill Shenley, 2245 El Molino Place, San Marino, California. 
1930 
From De\'ere Flunkett 
With the home football season finished and the 
Pitt game now in the record books, maybe we can 
catch Johnny Burns with a few news items on the 
1930 class before he puts this ALUMNUS issue to 
bed. This football season with its ups and downs 
brought the most unusual resurgence of Notre Dame 
spirit that wc have seen in many years here 
about the campus. 
It took a few defeats to arouse the student body 
and also the Alumni in* this area. Aware of the 
lack of depth in material and also the worst epi­
demic of injuries suffered here in a long time, the 
students and local Alumni have shown the most 
genuine display of loyalty and support for Notre 
Dame. 
Here are a couple letters received just after the 
last ALUMNUS went to press. One is from Pat 
Goggin, Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of 
Western \Vashington. Pat's address is 5723 37th 
Ave. NE, Seattle, Washington. He writes: 
**John Burns AIR M.AIL correspondence relative 
to club news deadline turns my thoughts in the 
direction of 1930 Class news. 
*'Ron Sulli\-an, Portland, Oregon, was in the city, 
the first week in June, and both Ron and the 
writer held a two-man 20-year reunion in my home, 
here in the all entrancing Pacific Northwest. Ron 
telephoned to Ed McCrimmon here in Seattle, prior 
to driving out to my home. Ed had another en­
gagement that memorable evening but reported that 
all was well with McCrimmon. 
^'Received a letter from Joe Manlsy, Tacoma, during the summer. Joe was not going to be in a position to attend the 20-ycar reunion but was plan­ning on attending the Retreat for men at St. ^fartin's Abbey. 
^'Talked to the smiling John Flinn on Universal Notre Dame Night here in Seattle. John can al­ways be counted on for loyal Notre Dame support out here in the Evergreen State. 
*'My activities relative to the ND Club of W. Washington, my home (lovely wife and four chU­drcn), my work with the Engineering Division of Boeing Airplane Company—all keep me pretty busy but I still long for another weekend similar to the one a year ago. The Notre Dame-Washington foot­ball game has to be gone over—every week! 
"Kindest personal regards and evcr>' good wish to the Notre Dame gang." 
The second letter that just missed our last issue came from Fred Parent, now in California, for­merly with Travelers Insurance here in South Bend. Fred's address is 2617 Hermosita Drive, Glendalc 8, California. Here is Fred's letter: 
"It sure was nice of you to write to me and it seems you are doing a very good job of keeping track of my movements. However, I am one jump ahead of you, having left the California Compensa­tion Insurance Company on June 15, to accept a position with the new subsidiary of the Beneficial Life Insurance Company, to head up the Under­writing and Cl^ms departments. Enclosed is a copy of "Topics," put out by the company and you will note that my four boys and I are pic­tured in the back, which picture was taken at the Notre Dame picnic. 
*'Walter (Parent) has just opened his law office in Santa Barbara after a retirement from practice during the past six years. He built his own ofiice at 19 W. Carrtllo Street in Santa Barbara. 
"In the event you wish to add a note regarding the picnic, it was very successful, having been held at the Police Academy grounds, an exclusive sec­tion of Elysian Park, Los Angeles. Yours truly was catcher in a softball game and smacked a home run—which is the main reason for mentioning this picnic. My son Tom played second base on .the Sons' team and temporarily disabled me while slid­ing into second on one play. P.S.: I was out. 
"Tom is in his final year at Glendale High and plays both tackle and end positions on the football team. He is majoring in architectural drawing and I am proud to say that he Is running an A avenge in all of his subjects. If you have a chance, you might request the Registrar to let me know the re­quirements for entry at Notre Dame in Architecture 
and also let me know if Glendale Junior CoUcge 
credits would be acceptable for the first two years 
In Architecture. 
**I am sorry I do not have more to report on the 
Class of 1930 but wUI drop you a Une whenever 
news comes my way. I was sorry to nuss the re­
union but on account of changing jobs I was unable 
to get away at that time,'.' 
On Saturday morning before the Pittsburgh game 
I cornered Clarcacc **Kone" Koo k In Fraak 
Lcaliy's office. He had a half-hour before the 
Team Mass, so he let go on a lot of ND alumni 
seen here and there over the football orcuit. He 
mentioned Joe Kvrtk who is a beer distributor in 
West Virginia and Tom Kassb, high school foot­
ball coach, whom he saw in New Orleans. 
At the Navy game he had the chance to talk to 
Tim CRonrke, Ed Blatt, Dick BkMM, Lairy Krai 
and Al. Grisaati. Larry is a wholesaler of office 
equipment and his old Badin roommate, Al Grisaati, 
Is a Councilman In Cleveland. He also ran into 
Wmie Byiae, a former halfback, who looks as 
though he could stiU play the position. WiUIe Is 
In the newqiaper distribution business In Cleveland. 
At New Orleans for the Tnlane game, Korie had 
a visit with Tarn MaywSkam^ who Is In the con­
struction business in Los Angeles, and also with' 
Ted T%iroiney who is a beer distributor in Mobile, 
Ala. They spent some time discussing that fine 
spread on Mooa Mallins-In the "Saturday Evemaff 
Post." If any class members have not seen it, look 
it up In a very recent issue of the "Post." It is 
a nice job on Moon. 
Kozle said he talked recently with Hi^ i Devorc who Is very happy up East with bis family. Ed Caldwefl, coach at John Adams High school in Cleveland, was recently caUed to service In the Navy. George Kozak Is director of physical edu­cation In the Cleveland Public Schools. He super­vises the complete recreational activities of this city system, and works under Fkiyd Rowe, a good friend of Notre Dame. 
BUI Steita came through with a nice letter re­cently and I hc ^ to get a later report from him on the Pitt game. BUI writes: 
"I took my two boys. Jack and BiU, 16 and 18 respectively, up to see the Navy game In Cleveland and as you have probably heard, it was quite a wet affair, but the game was very good sund we had a fine time, considering the weather. I took the boys over to Chariey Rokr's restaurant where Chuck fixed us UD with a verv deH«r*itf"l dinner, after which we saw no reason for staying In a very wet Cleveland, so we headed back to Pittsburg. 
**I haven't seen many of the boys since the re­union, but I have seen Jadt and Dan Caimoa In Columbus and Joe Ryaa now and then. I don't seem to have the opportunity to get to the lunch­eons here In Pittsburgh, as our plant Is located In a different part of tovm and it makes it difficult to attend them regularly. 
''Frank McSorley had planned on coming out in a private Pullman car for the Pitt game thb week: howe\-er, Frank, unexpectedly, has become Ul and I took t>ver the car. Due to the poor show­ing of Pitt, and ND lo»ng three games, I am cer­tainly having difficulty In finding sociable alumni who will be present in this private car. However, I might say that to date a few of my friends are coming out, plus some friendly clergy, also Mr. and Mrs. Larry OToole. We wUI be tacked on behind the Pitt special. We are aU expecting to have a good time. 
**If I have an opportunity to look you up on Saturday, I shaU do so, as Jack, my middle boy who is 16, and my wife wUI be along with me. My oldest boy, of course. Is at KIski and is playing football this Saturday, so he wUl be unable to come. 
"I might say that if you have some si^gestlons as to getting him Interested In going to Notre Dame next year, he might be a football prospect, as he is playing defensive fullback at Kiski He seems to Uke the Idea of staying heme for at least his first two years of college and Pitt seems to be the Alma Mater he Intends to pick. Due to these trying days and when you can have your boys for such little time, I am not going to question the school of his choice. 
"In closing I might say that I haven't done any­thing about the ND Foundation Fimd this year. If you send me Information on this I will certainly be glui to forward you a check In ray behalf. 
"Hf^w to see you Saturday and hope that we win." And here's a letter from Jadt Cannna. His Honor writes: 
27 

*'Receivcd your card and am sorrv" that you arc high and dry without news, after tlic reunion such as the class of '30 had. 
"Well here goes. I hope I may enlighten you as to the boys I saw at the Na\y game. First, out of 700 tickets, both my wife and I drew a couple that were back of the goal line, but that wasn't too bad until it started to rain and, brother, did I enjoy a good swim. I saw a number of bov-s who at­tended the game and I'll tr>* to mention them as they come to mind: Jim Bosko from Cincinnati, who is with Bunte Candy; Bcmic Conroy, Jack Geddcs, Joe Ryan» Eddie Cantwell, Ed ^foria^ity, Dr. Joe Hughes, Dr. Tom Hugjics, Bill Haas and fiancee. Frank Miller of Fremont. Ohio; Johnny Igil, Tim OTooIe of New York. Tommy Cunning­ham, Frank (the paint man) Kcrjes, Bob Pickens of Circlcvillc. Ohio; Joe Savoldi, Joe Fitzpatrick, who is now living in Florida and flew up for the game; Gus Bondi, who is connected with Pruden­tial Life Insurance Co. in Cincinnati. Joe Morrissej-, and above all old "curly locks" Hoolcy Smith from Pcllem, Xew York. • He finally saw a game; and ever so many whose names escape mc now. The next game that I take in I'll take my secrc­tarv- and relay the names to her as I sec the Old Gang. I know that you will have more for your column than Bums will permit you to use. (Wrong!) 
**I trust this will be some help to you and as I come across \-arious boys, I'll make a mental note and tr\- to correspond with you once a month. Best wishes always. 
Xow, a note from the man who didn't get there, Xa\y game, that is. Let AI Shipacasse tell you why he missed: 
"Required attention to the needs of our young­sters, the latest a boy of five months, precluded at­tendance at the week-end festivities. Regr«:Itably, I am devoid of the information which you seek. Suggest that you contact Jeny Reidy, c/o Reidy Bros. Furniture Co.. 11730 Detroit Ave., Lakctvood. Ohio. He was quite active during the week-end whicli to all intents and purposes was a lost one to this comer. Rumor has it that Jerr\- and Dick Bloom (known as "Five Yards" Bloom during his Bro\\*nson Hall days, when evcr\'time he fell doivn during an inter-hall game, he gained five yards) were quite active in the more toncy local bistros, betimes squiring their wives about when they caught up to them. 
^ *'At this Juncture I might add that my occupa­tion requires considerable travel which restricts my partidpation in the affairs of the local XD club. 
"P.S.: Four years and approximately six months until the 1955 reunion." 
Your class secretar>-, Devere Plunkett, Histor\-Deparlment, X'otre Dame, Ind. 
Morton R. Goodman announces the opening of ofiiccs for the General Practice of Law, 139 South Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills, CaliL 
SYMPATHY To John S. Flinn, of Seattle, Washington, on the death of his mother, Oct. 13. To John and Joseph Nelson^ of ^Vcstfield, X'ew Jersey, on the death of their mother, October 6. 
1931 —20.YEAR REUNION June 8, 9, 10, 1951 
Re\-. Thomas J. Culhane, C.S.C, pastor of St. Helen's Churcli, Georgetown, Texas, was elected as Vice-President of t!ic Georgetown "Welfare As­sociation. He was also elected to a three-year term as a member of the Executive Board. The purpose of the Association is to cliannel all help to needy and indigent families so that there will be no duplication from various organizations. 
Father Jim Donnelly, '33, assists Father Culhane 

in the work among the Mexicans. 
SYMPATHY To Charies F. Stallkamp, of Detroit, Michigan, on the death of his father. 
DEATH John M. Ke^e, of South Bend, Indiana, died Oct. 3, 1950. BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Joseph H. Robinson (Sands­bury, Ohio), a son, John, August 22. 
1932 
From Jim CoUuu: Bill Conaton, still in the dairy equipment busi­ness, is now located in Wooster, Ohio. Congratulations to Manjiie ScJiwartz and Joe Petritz; Marchie for getting a new five-year con­
tract to continue coaching at Stanford University, and to Joe for calling the turn on his professional 
X. Y. Yanks football team. As this is written they arc leading the league. 
Ed Fitdi has moved back to Xew York from Silver Springs, Md. His address is 3451 WefT Drive. 
Frank Nulty has moved to 40 Friendly Road, Lcvittown, N. Y. Paul Flanagan'5 new address is 1059 Lakeside Drive, Grand Rapids, Mich. 
I had hoped to have another report from AI Culver on the football season for this issue but it seems that the Old Rip has been unable to pull himself together after the things that happened to the Varsity. The final games should put him in shape to report by the next issue. 
Leader of a good-will delegation from Yucatan game was Antonio Diaz, at present owner of a men's store and a hemp factor>* in Merida, Yucatan. 
X'ew Orleans rolled out the deep-pile carpet for Antonio and his delegation, which included Alberto Garcia, father of a Notre Dame arcliitecture stu­dent and several Tulane rooters who came along to balance the group, A 43-member reception committee dined with the group at Amaud's while the ladies attended a fashion show and luncheon at Hotel Roosevelt. 
1933 
Dear 33's: 
October 25 is a day that will live in history, as far as this humble scribe is concerned. On that great day, no less than two letters were mailed to this office, bearing news of classmates, with the accent on the class, and I'll be happy to apply the same accent to anyone kind enough to forward bulletins to your news-hungry servant. 
The first of these two letfrs arrived from Swoy­pr\*ille. Pa., and concerned Tom Wallace, *33. Like so many of the AB crads. Tom is a lauyer, with offices at 1028 Main St., SwoyerviUe. He's a mem­ber of the Luzerne County Bar Association, and happy—and successful—in his work. Tom was mar­ried in 1940. and has two daughters. Priscilla Jeanne. 9, and Alexandra. 7. (Got a nice college for women out here in River Forest. Tom—Adv.) .As a nice romantic touch, Tom and his wife spent their honeymoon in part in witing ND and en­virons. Tom would be delighted to hear from any of his classmates (who wouldn't?—Ed. note), and will put a small deposit with this office as guarantee that he'll answer all letters. 
The second little package of joy was a long and welcome letter from another Tom who is a lawyer, vet. Tom Downs. '33, writes from 311^2 Fanvell St., Eau Claire, Wisconsin, that he too—but why rewrite? I'll quote . . . 
"I just finished reading your ND ALUMNUS column (a great guy, that Downs! He READS it!) and note your request for a hit of information about the boys of *33. I believe that the reason many of us do not \mte you a few lines is simply because we don't like to toot our own horn. .. . I suppose you have read of the apparent apparition of Mrs. Van HofT. She claims the Blessed Virgin has appeared to her several times. Her home in Necedali, Wis., isn't far from here and our people have expressed the feeling that there is something sincere and true about the stor>". There were almost ]00,0(X) people at Necedah recently. It was a tremendous demonstration of faith. Now, if you'll forgive mentioning myself—tell you a few details- After being on the legal staff of the Na­tional Labor Relations Board in Washington, D. C., and in Detroit, and later with the Chicago Ord­nance, I decided to make my home here in Eau Claire. I started private law practice in X'ovcmber of 1946 and so far haven't been out of town. I took a gander at local politics last Spring and was elected 7th Ward Supervisor on the Eau Claire County Board. Not really a ver>' important job but it is a means of meeting people (and doing one's bit.) I have not been as prolific as some of my friends of '33, but I do have a little girl eight years old named Sharon Ann and a five-year­old boy, Thomas Joseph. Their mother is a convert and is a grand wife and lovely mother. I happen to be the local City Chairman of the ND Founda­tion and though we have a limited number of ND men, we do manage to get a few bucks down to ND. 
"Paul Kell, a former ND football player, is in the paper business up here and seems to be doing well. He was after our class but most of the ND boys will remember him. Harry Kaiser and his brother. Charlie Kaiser, are residents of Eau Claire. The former is a vice-president of one of the local banks and the latter is with an accounting firm. If you ever see Pat Crowley, Jim Downs. Fraok Downs, Don Draper, Ndl Hurley, and Fran Crowe, please extend them my best regards. 
"I have wondered what has become of Ray Reu­land, Bemie Crnsana (I hope that is spelled cor­rectly) Len Rcag-A, Mike Coyle, PeanuU Hunter, and others. Heard from Tom Hougfaen in 1948, but not since—he was then in Houston. Texas. Would sure like to hear from all these fellows, as well as BDl Adterman and Marion Blake—if they see this, hope they will drop mc a line ... " 
Many thanks for a swell letter, Tom, and I join you in the hope that you hear from some or all of the above. \Vhile we're hoping, let's include mc, too, hey? 1 could stand many more letters like yours. 
I'm ver>- glad that Tom mentioned the Necedah apparitions, by the way. They caused a furore out here in the Midwest, Without going into the the­ological side of the discussion, I'll just say that the consensus, both lay and clerical, was that the appearance of 100,000 people at such an out-of-the­way spot as Necedah was in itself almost a miracle. 
Some of the \*isitors came from as far away as California. They were of all ages, from young to old and infirm. But despite the tendency* of youth to become bored and age to grow querulous, ob­servers agreed that the tremendous crowd was al­most a unified example of mass reverence. It was, as Tom Downs sa^-s, an inspiring and memorable demonstration of faith in an age marked by an almost total lack of it. 
Yet our age, for all its defections and subhuman atrocities, has one glorious diadem by which it will be remembered 'eternally: the proclamation of the dogma of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. ^Vhen Pope Pius Xll, on the Feast of All Saints, 1950, made his awesome pronouncement. we may be sure that bells ran^ and knees were bent in far better climes than this world can offer. His proclamation signaled to manv that this indeed is the Age of Mary, towards which the saints of nearly two thousand years have looked in yearnin?. It behooves us. who attended Her school, to do more than hail the Pope's proclamation: it is no less than our duty to prove this Her age by our actions. And if nothing else, those ^'actions" can consist in bending our knees and reciting the daily Rosar>'. Mary has few poorer examples of a son and follower than he who taps out these lines; but 
if by saying these words I can get one of my far more praiseworthy readers to say the Rosar>- daily —well, I have hopes that She will overlook some of my shortcomings. Let's make it a "Mary" Christmas this year . . . and drop me a line as your Yuletide good deed! 
Your Class Secretary, Jf»cph D. A. McCabe, Rosary College, River Forest. Illinois. 
1934 
From Edward F. Mansfield: 
**THREE losses in one season? Why. fainveather 

friend, in MY senior year, wc lost FIVE!" 
Wasn't it relaxing to be able to toss off remarks 

like that when this year's ineritabic losses came 
along? No other class was so well prepared for the 
graceful-losers test! 
And isn't it good to recall that *33 crew, mostly our ou-n classmates, who caught fire in the 36th quarter of that baffling season and burned the Army down, 13-12, after five losses and a tie? 
DOWNSTATE GREETING Do you remember the Union station reception they received on a cold ^fonday? This fighting '50 team, three-three at this ^vTiting, deser\-es the same support wc gave our own friends in '33. After watching that Michigan State sizzler, we predict a 6-3 year. They found themselves. Will the entire class assembled in Washington do a solo on contributing class news! Blair Mc­Gowan and Bill Tracy closed with a rush just before press time. Joe Jacob writes from 42 Pythian Street, Torrington, Connecticut; "After eight years I think it's about time I made my contribution to our class column. Of those eight years I spent three' with Pan American World Airways at LaGuardia Field, one with my Dad making ice cream, and the last four with the Torrington Manufacturing Company here in my home tot'k'n. WV make fans and centrifugal blower wheels. "Most of the fellow's I've kept in touch whh are 
the Aero Engineers like myself. Bill Waldron stopped in to see mc one evening this summer. I've been working nights this summer, so I was able to take him on a tour of the plant. He found it interesting as he is working for one of our customers. His otHce was in the process of being moved from New York City to Hartford. Art Hiege] is also working in Hartford. He lives in Wethcrs­field and is in the engine test section of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. 
"I stopped in at Pan American for a visit during last Easter week-end and met three of the class ^v-orking there. Jack AViethoflT is Power Plant En­gineer, Mel Rummel, who has been there since graduation, is in Production Control, and George Coppin is a Flight Engineer. George had just been transferred from Pan American's Pacific Coast di­vision and w*as attending school in preparation for going to England for three years. He expected to fly from a home base in England. 
"My wife is also a Pan American alumn^^e. HIT folks live in Elmhurst, N. Y., so wc get down to the big city quite often with our two youngsters. When there we get together with roomie Jack Andres. Jack is married and has two children. He is working as an architect and recently took the examination to become a registered architect. 
*"I hated to miss our 5-Year Reunion in '48, but I'll be there for the tenth in '53." Good for you, Joe. WcMI be looking for you then. Meantime, keep us posted with letters like 
- this one. Wc read quite a few names we haven't seen in this column for some time. 
Blair McGowan post cards: "I seem to get a line off to the ALUMNUS about ever\-3 years—they go by too fast. Saw Leo Lewis and new bride at the North Carolina pame as well as Frank Kaiser, Bill ^fiddendorf and Mrs. "Middy," Jerry Gainer, Joe Goecken and Bill McCauIIffc. 
*'Rcpeat on Kaiser at the Michigan State game, but that was all. Seem to miss the Gate 14 meet­ing alter games in a rush to get out on the higli­way and home. 
'"Have three children and am living at 1116 Washington Blvd., Birmingham, Michigan." 
Thanks for your contribution, Blair. Send us an->thcr rcpDrt of any you m:g!i: Iiavt- seen at tiu* Pitt game. 
Bill Tracy journeyed to the campus for the Michigan State game and he reports from 607 
U. S. Court House, Foley Square, N. Y. C: "The Notre Dame men of the F.B.I, are all functioning as usual. I went out to sec the Miciii­gan State game last week and it was a pleasure to be on campus again. The results of the game dimmed an otherwise perfect Saturday at ND. I saw John "Chow" Trcac>' at the game, and he beamed when he mentioned his five children. **Chow" is in business witli his father-in-law. Mike Godfrey also attended the game in the company of Irma and Ida Bonnicelli, librarians at the NI) 
Library-. Mike said that both he and his brother Jim are practicing law in St. Louis. 
*'My brother, Joe, Frank Kunkcl^ Jim and Mike Godfrey had a get-together in St. Louis during the summer. They had a swell time talking over old times in Lyons Hall. Frank is teaching at St. John's University in Brooklyn. My brother prac-­tices with Hogan, Kellcher and Bill, New York City. 
"I saw Tony Maloney today and he advised me that Ollie Hunter was transferred to his home town, Erie, Pa., where he is a resident agent with the 
F.B.I. Tony and I arc in the same office, but due to its size wc don't sec each other often. Tony is the father of two wonderful children. 
"Out at ND, prior to the game I saw Bill Cemcy and Chet Grant, my old football coaches and both looked prosperous. I had a long chat with Brother ^%vin, principal at Central Catholic, South Bend. I also had a long talk with Mr. Willis Nutting of the History Department." 
Our thanks. Bill, for taking the time once again to drop the class a note on your activities. It certainly would make the gathering of a representa­tive column an easy task if wc could get a few more to write as often. 
ALIBIS: NONE Under any other leadership, they probably would have fallen apart. Wc should not overlook the credit brought to Notre Dune this year by a squad that refused to quit and a coach w*ho refused to alibi. I believe we all liked his comments after each loss, and even our detractors must admit that team, coaches, and students have been champions in the shadows of Saturday defeats. 
November-December, 1950 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
MR J. WILLIAM COSTELLO 
"Bill" Costello, a 1939 graduate of the University recently accepted a position as manager of the Sales Promotion Divi­sion of Capehart-Farnsworth Corpora­tion, Fort Wayne, Irid. Capehart-Farns­worth is an associate of International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation. 
He previously had held a similar posi­tion in the Hartford (Conn.) division of General Electric Supply Corporation. Prior to that connection he had been as­sociated ^vith E. I. duPont de Nemours and Company at Fairfield, Conn. 
Born in Dover, N. J., Bill is married, the father of four. 
His chief interest, outside of promot­ing Alumni activities is in the Knights of Columbus. 
May we alumni follo\v their example. Why can't we hear from some of those '33 men who worked hard that three-five-one season? 
Lukats . . . Tobin . . . Krausc . . . Dciore . . . Rascher . . . Vcjar . . . Gorman , . . Wunsch . . . LaBame . . . McGufT . . . Leonard . . . Banas . . . I^^-amik . . . Schrcnkcr . . . Mueller , . . 
•Hagan . . . Robinson. They all admire this '50 team, I know. Thev ba*tl«*d similar odds. We'd like to hear from all of them. SIERRA PADRE 
Quoting the incoming mail alphabetically, we learn from the mile-high typewriter of the Rev. Sebastian (Jack) Egan, O.F.M., St. Elizabeth's Priory, Denver 4: 
"Just returned from Western Montana. A month was spent in Butte, a character city which hasn't lost its flavor as yet to modem gutless sophistica­tion. Father Norbcrt HoIT is pastor at Immaculate Conception. He hasn't changed one bit. That was my first glimpse of him since leaving school . . . 
AUGUST IN SEPTEMBER 

**Sincc a year ago February, I have been going constantly—missions, sisters' and nurses' retreats, and odd bits of travel. My father was out here when I returned from Montana and he had a won­derful ten days looking over the Colorado moun­tains. I am going up to Portland, Seattle, and Tacoma, and will see August Von Boccklin. 
"Have seen quite a bit of Gene Blish and John Hemming this year. Gene, as you may know, has remarried—a St. Louis girl. John is accumulating quite a fine reputation as a surgeon here in town. 
MINK COACH 

*'Gcorge Melinkovich is head coach at Utah State. He has a brother at Rock Springs, Wyo., whom he visits often, and I shall probably see him in September at a mission up there." 
MORE POWERS Clement Powers of 1124'/. W. 45lh St., Los An­geles, '37, wrote to Bob Cahill oo football brntaes, and we profit thusly: 
**I attended the Los Angeles club piouc Tbe turnout was very good, aad Bob Kdk r and fais ccHnmittee deserve congratulations. Tcny <yMafcy, *79t and Ait Etva, *30, with (anuUes, in evidence. Please forward the infonnatiiA to the correct source that Art Erra 'lost his father a few weeks ago." 
HE'S A MAN—REILLY! 

Now we show you '34 l^gards what can be done at a keyboard by a man who wants yoa people to know about you other people. WIEaai Caaef Kdllr, one of Doctor Cooney's own who stayed with the press, really did a reporting job for ns this month. Bill is pnmiotion director of "The Sign," Monastery Place, Union City, N. J. (Goan­mcrdal: have yoa r ^ "The Sign" lately? ReaBy bi«-tiroe). 
''My nearest neighbor is Henry Grattan, *33, who lives in Orange, bnt who runs his own jewelry and dqiloma business in Newark. Cordially—^BiU Rcilly, **Tbc Sign," 
WILUAM SPEAKS— Reilly at the keyboard: ''It's good to hear from you, Ed, and T appre­
ciate the honor of your invitation. Since you've daniElcd the bait, here are a few nibbles: 
"Right here in our own pond, we're gettii^F ready to present two big Notre Dame names in THE SIGN. Vimx Hartaett, '37, who, since his hitches in naval intelligence and as supervisor of the "Gangbusters" radio program, has been doing outstanding articles for us, will write the lead art'cle for Novembei^-'*R*^ Fronts in Radio aad TV Are FalUng." He'U reveal MmseU as the anonymous author of a prenous piece that led lum to write the book, "Red Channels," under spon­sorship of "Counterattack." 
PROF HERMENS 

"The other ND name in THE SIGN's next issue is Ferdinand Hermens of the university faculty, writing on **ChrMtian Democracv in G*r»nanv.'* 
"These should interest our classmate, FanI 3hb«­osld, associate editor of Our Sunday Visitor. In­cidentally, his boss. Bin Fink, is a Notre Dame man. 
" 'MnrT Maaoski inquires about John Coalcy, and we're happy to report that Jack is a top execu­tive of the gigantic McCormick and Co. spice firm there. Jack was part of the Navy's public rela­tions division during the war, after working for "The Sun", papers. His last letter had him.em­barking for a trip to Eunipe with the head of the firm. 
THE MET CLUB 

"All of this can be confirmed by my brother, Frank Rdlly, '37, who visits Baltimore for the publishing firm of MacNalr Dorland and has had the pleasure of Jack Conley's hospitality. Frank moved into his new home at Merrick, L. I., last week. The Met club must have tofluenced Frank, for he hasn't lived in Jersey since his marriage. I suspect the machinations of Bob Haaultoa, '28. 
"I used to see a lot of Bob during the '40's when I was Bishop O'Hara's secretary in Cardinal ^>en­man's office for the military chaplains. Bob was a frequent visitor, but then he got caught up in the Willkic campaign and later became an executive of Pan American Airways. 
MORE GOOD MEN 

"Another fairly regular visitor i^'as Dcanit CGoa­ndl, both in uniform and out. Denny used to give me news of Frank Hoaetkamp, who has a lumber or woodworlung firm in Brooklyn. If I remember correctly, I saw Frank at the funeral Mass Bishop O'Hara offered for the soul of Joba FfrcwA after he was killed in action as an aviator. 
"Occasionally in those days we used to see Bill Collins and Dan Bride, too. Deany O'Coaadl, to go back a moment, t^q>ed mc on the shoulder in the NY subway a cotqile of months ago. He's run* ning his father's bar and grill business downtown now. 
AND GOOD BOOKS "Howard Cavckro, '42(?), is with his father's firm, The Catholic Book Publishing Co. They've added to Notre Dame's fame by printing hundreds of thousands of copies of "I Ftay the Mass," the Sunday missal which Father Hoever, the Cistercian, wrote when he w^u at ND. Howard has further added to the firm's reputation with a new editSoa of the Bible that has wide^read sale, and most recently, the New Testament in a spcoal red* letter edition. "Another member (rf the fourth estate whom I sec regularly is BiU Saralka, *35, who started with 
29 
'34 but stayed out a year. Besides being UP and 
N. Y. Times correspondent in the North Jersey area. Bill works for IHck Rcid, Lactare medalist editor of the NY Catholic Neu*s. 
FAGAN STILL RUNS 
*'BilI keeps me posted on the many activities of Jim Fagaiif who, in addition to being an attorney in Newark, is toun counsel of Glen Ridge and a teacher at Scton Hall uni\*crstiy. We wonder about the whereabouts and activities of John Dumpert. (So do we; speak, John—^£FM). 
(This rcportin' Reilly has stamina. Breathing easily, he clocks a strong last quarter thusly): 
**In my home parish in Orange, I see Hugh De\'ore regularly. Hugh had his frock coat and silk topper on for the Holy Name parade recently. Tliat was the day after his first game as football coach at NYU. Hugh ver>' graciously consented to be interviewed by The Sign's sports editor, Don Dunphy, on a local radio program. 
"Don included a photo of Jim Dunnigan in his sports column a couple of months ago (£FM in­terruption: THAT intrigues me, Reilly; is Dunni­gan still ice skating, or did he, too, challenge Joe Louis?) 
THE JANDOLIS **Anothcr of our fellow parishioners is Les Jan­doli. Les is with Prudential Insurance in Newark. His brother, Russ, M3(?), corresponds with us oc­casionally from St. Bonavcnturc's College up in Bishop O'Hara's Buffalo diocese. Russ has estab­lished quite a reputation for the Journalism de­partment at St. Bonaventure's. *'Back in Jersey, we have regular family get­togethers with Tom Daly, whose residence is in Tenafly. Tom is with Lever Brothers. Our two families make it a full house at least once a year with AI PaneUa, who li\'es in Nor\t*alk, Conn., and is the pride of the Abbott Laboratories' sales force. 
WALDORF MEETING "Al tells of walking into the Waldorf in New York with his wife for a company convention ^vhcn rooms were hard to get. Everj-thing turned out rosy, when Al located Artie Doerflcr in the man­ager's office. If I could hire about six Reillys, the '34 column would put Don Plunkett's '29 championship ne\%'S collecting into the shadows. Your next assignment. Reporter Reilly, is to browbeat all the gu>-s you mentioned into writing as well as you did. TTianks. 
^VESTWARD, HO V is near the alphabet's end, and Augie Von Boccklin is near the nation's end—way out in Tacoma. Augie didn't give any news, but he set a new precedent by actually THANKING Cahill for some football tickets. They're still looking for a suitable frame for that letter. We'll buy a spot­light for it if you'll send in some news. Von B. 
LEADERSHIP 
T. Edward Carey co-directed the ND club's pre-navy rally in Cleveland. 
The old long-striding fullback, Lowell "Red" Hagan, rallied ND men of north central Missouri for a send-off for students this past summer. The titian-topped haberdasher—a successful one from Missouri, honest!—still lives in Mexico, Mo. If all his customers dress as well as Red does, Mexico is sump'n to sec. 
Eddie O'Brien is new sccretarj- of the Washing­ton, D. C , ND club. And that reminds me that John R. O'Hanlon of Washington, the mid-'30 ten­nis star, called en route through Chicago to give a personal report on his latest—and we missed. Out of town. 
UNIFORMITY Jane Lacey, the colonel's lady, reports that civilian Jack Lacey of Chicago is again Colonel John W. Lacey of the 437th Troop Carrier Wing, APO 660, San Francisco. 
RECALLED 
Jack is working with another ND flyer of World War II experience and muchos ribbons— Brig. Gen. John Hendbry, now wearing stars where eagles once perched. General John is also a Chi­cagoan. 
Colonel Jack's groundwork as new president of the Chicago ND Club will be noticeable for some 
time  in  that revamped  organization. AI Stcpan  
carries  on.  
EVENING,  JUDGE  

Down in Fort Wayne, we spent a too-short period with Judge John Logan. Hizzoner had seen Paul Manodd at a K. of C. function in Huntington, where John's duties as district deputy took him. He also spoke warmly of the record crowd drawn in Fort ^Vayne (some 14,0(X)) for Father Patrick Pey­ton's family Rosary gathering. 
BULLETIN! 
At three fall games, we have NOT met Eli Abra­
ham Shahecn. To paraphrase glib Burc^iell of last 
month's column—Can any other alumnus make this 
statement? 
PHONE BOOTH NOTES 
Two phone calls in Michigan City missed Phil 
Ott and Joe Quartuch. Phil has an insurance 
business and is very active in aiding a neiv parish. 
He has a boy and a girl—and a wife with telephone 
charm. 
Joe Quartuch, now in the store equipment busi­
ness, and, I believe, leading Phil in the kinder­
garten department by one (One way to force a 
letter: err in the vital statistics report to make 
them sound off!) 
MOVING VANGUARD Look at all the people who found new apart­ments and hpmcs: John J. Bracken, 9413 117th St., Richmond Hill, 
N. Y. , . , Joseph C. Clark, 1203 Union, Natrona, Pa. . . . Alfred J. Heigel, 2213 Clifton Park Rd., Schenectady, N. Y. . . . John I. Afullen, 1775 Sinaloa Ave., Pasadena, Calif. , . . Frank M. Schinkoritch, Rt. 12, Box 263 E, Phoenix, Ariz. . . . John R. Wallacr, 1422 Page, San Francisco 17, Calif. 
Charles F. Woods, 845 S. Clinton, Chicago . . . Elmer O. Albertinl, 129 S. Market St., Mt. Carmel, 
111. (application for membership, not a move) . . . Michael T. Coyle, 814 N- Allen, South Bend . . . Joseph A. Durkin, 54 Valley Ridge Rd., Ft. Worth, Tex. . . . >Viniam P. Hu^es, 5 Eveh-n Rd., Port Washington, N. Y. . . . David M. W^sh, Jr., 713 
E. Third, Centralia, III. C>Tus L. Foote, 225 N. Mission Drive, San Ga­briel, Calif. . . . John A. McShane, 7321 Indiana Ave., Chicago . . . ^Vllliam J. Powell, Jr., 156 Hampton Blvd., Masscpcqua, N. Y. (HEY, THAT'S OUR TREASURER!) . . . WUIiam E. Beckley, 4623 \Valter AVay, El Paso, Tex. . . . Gregory J. Blain, Butler High, Butler, N. J., now UN­CLAIMED (any clues?) . . . Robert E. Bon Dnr­ant, 322 JMS building. South Bend . . . Charies N. 
Hcckelmann, 77-03 82d St., Glendale, L. I. . . . David S. Horan, 619 Middle Ave., Elyria, O. . . . 
J. E. Horrigan, 10031 I5th St. MV, Seattle 77 . . . William A. KfcCarthy, 6318 Kenwood, Chicago 37 . . . Charles L. Monnot, 3414 Glassen, Oklahoma City . . . Richard Afullen, 530 Tyman place, Fair­bault, Minn. . . . Dr. James P. Murphy, 6366 Devonshire, St. Louis (hi. Doc!) . . . Edward F. Tobe, 304 E. 4th St., Ottawa, Wis, 
Wc have found a number of classmates who missed the sad report of Mike Fox's passing in Indianapolis last February. Remember him and his family when you pause to pray—and remember John H. Clark of York, Pa., and the more than a score of '34 men who have gone before them. 
LEAHY LYCEUM At South Bend's .Saturday matinees in the out­door theater of the Irish Players, we've seen John J. and Loretta O'Connor and brother Eddie and his Kathleen, all of Kansas City; Vince and Hazel Fehlig of St. Louis; Mr. and Airs. Jerry Shine of Indianapolis, and Leo Powers and sister, Clara. 
Jerry Is in the ice cream business in Hoosier-land. Vince came to the Spartan four-act play as prcx>- of the St. Louis club. From other classes, St. Louis sent Train Chairman Fred McNeill and Jack GrilGn, cx-prcxy. They had Sunday tea at the Knickerbocker bar with Frank O'Loughlin of Chicago. The Dick Cagneys of Indian Hill Estates also entertained the Fehligs in Chicago. 
HO\VDY, COUSIN From cousin classes, we also exchanged howdo's with the Jim Gartlands of Marion, Indiana, and the Ste\-e (Ohio State touchdown) Afillcrs of Rock Island. 
Ed Krause did his usual fine job at tlie Chicago ND Club's smoker at the Knickerbocker before the Michigan State game. Fresh from the upsurge of campus spirit prior to that game, Ed was force­fully reminded of the '33 situation that led to Army's 13-12 upset—remember?—and told his lis­teners to ^vatch for a repetition. He was so close. 
SMOKE-FILLED ROOM 
Others at that smoker were AI McGuff (Wdier high coach and McGuff Paper Co.), Joe McMahoB, ex-guard no%v on guard with the FBI; Prj-al Cunan, 
Maurie's brother and a La Salle street lawyer; Joe 
McCabe, '33's professional publicitor; Dan Gibbs, 
Al Stepan, now prexy for the absent-with-leave 
Lac«y; Luke Ticman, and AI Rohol. 

Khitf Laydcn wzi due there that night, but he was tied up with that very commendable job he 'did as prefldent of ^'Americans Will Vote, Inc.'* Judging from the newspaper publicity for such a .worthy idea, Elmer was no idle president. He worked long and hard at it. More of us should follow suit. 
WORD FROM OUR SPONSOR This month's commercial: '34 Foundation gifts through September totaled $2,730.75 from 125 men. We're trailing other classes. Urgently needed: $3,000,000. Despite the fact that some sneer at the lowly buck, you'll find it's still warmly regarded at the Foundation office—even one at a time. Don't wmt for that lush day when you can write a big check; it may never come. In the meantime, football sellouts are wonderful, but remember their net just covers non-revenue athletics and the amount paid to needy students. Ftwtball brings eight per cent of total income; just eight, not 80, as some of the unkno^ving tell you when they mutter "football school." A simple plan: How about setting a basic mini­mum of $2.50 per month—the price of a pair of good movie seats. With all 525 of the '34ers meeting such a minimum, the year's total \vould be $13,125, at LEAST. Hiis plan would not rule out any gifts a '34er might wish to make up to and including the tax limit which Uncle imposes. As you know, every ad\'ancc in plant, staff and research adds luster to your 17-ycar-old degree, if you need a personal angle. Four buildings are under way—ground for two has already been broken (the Science Building and the Notre Dame Inn)—but eleven more are needed. END OF COMMERCIAL. 
ANOTHER PRESIDENT 
Ed Sporl should be added to that growing group of '34 men who have headed alumni clubs. Ed, far from native New Orleans, is gavel-gripper for the Baltimore club. That leaves Minnie to run the entire city of New Orleans alone. 

HARNESSED AGAIN For those who missed the last issue, we repeat that our officers elected in '34 are back on dut>* at the university's request until a reunion election can be held. Our leaders then and now are: nrendcnt, the Rev. James V. Moscow, Lewis ^fe• morial Hoqntal, 3001 S. Michigan, Chicago. V^oe-presidcnt, James J. Forrest, 10 Forest St., Stnnriiam, Mass. Secretary, William C. OToole, 425 S. Aiken, Pittdmr^, Fa. Treasurer, William J. Powell, Jr., 156 Hampton Blvd., Masscpeqna, HI. Next printing, we'll have the four new regional \"ice-presidcnts for you. 
Pn r PATTER On Pitt Saturday, we saw James 0'Sul]i\-an Keams, now running his own Chicago public rela­tions firm after years of sparkling magazine and sports reporting for the Daily News and Sun. A Northbrook resident, Jim has been unable to get away for games in recent seasons, so was obviously pleased to be back for the Pitt victory. Last time we thumbed the class SCHOL.\STIC, Jim's ''Splinters from the Press Box" title was still a standing head. 
ONE LONE O'TOOLE From Pittsburgh on Pittsburgh Saturday, Larr>' represented the seven-man O'Toole priv-ate alumni club—along with Catherine. Larry confirmed the' rumor of bachelor Bill's surrender; Bill and Lucy Dingledine of Pittsburgh were married July 8. Tale-spinning Bill is winding up law school courses, started after army service in the ETO. Larry, also a vet, is already a lawyer. 
WHERE, O WHERE? 

Look at'these names out of the news for a long time (tell us the latest, men): Ray Branchean, Tom BrobMm, the Cassiatorcs, Fran Crawfonl, Tim Doaovan, Walt Dupray, Mike Tackley, Bob FoTtmie, Jim Griffin, Ed Hobnan, Paul Kane, Lee Kramer, Don Mcintosh, Norb Mizcrsla, Larry OTfeiD, HaiTT Kodcett, Fraa Toomey, Laurie Vejar, Bynm Smith, Dick B. Tobin, John Venahlcs, John Shaipe* 
"Press" secretary is still Mansfield, receiving mail, until impeachment, at 6575 N. Glenwood, Chicago. 
Won't someone match Rcilly's report for next issue? Remember the signs: $$$ to the Foundation, c/o c/o c/o to Mansfield—three on each letter. 
1935 
James H. Sheils, New York City Commissioner of Investigation, made the principal address at the dedication of a new academic building in Sep­tember at lona School. The school is a prepara­tory school operated by the Christian Brothers of Ireland on the lona campus. Cardinal Spellman performed the dedication ceremonies. 
Word has just been received that John AVemer has been recalled to active duty in the U. S. Navy. John is the father of three children, the latest arrt\'al being a boy, Frederick Richard, bom in January of this year. 
1 93 6 —15-YEAR REUNION June 8, 9. 10, 1951 SYMPATHY To Mr. Louis A. Lange, of Fond du Lac, AVis­consin, on the death of his mother. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Paul A. Guamieii (Warren, Ohio)^ a daughter, Margaret Mary*, Sept. 21. To Mr. and Mrs. Wayne E. Thurm (Earlvillc, Iowa), a son, Don Jon; the new arrival joins four other brothers and a sister. 
1938 
Redman Duggan, on his way to a special State Department Training Program in Washington, 
D . C , stopped off to sec the North Carolina game and cliat with some of his old friends here at Notre Dame. This present assignment postpones his leaving for his new diplomatic post as second secretary* in the United States Embassy at Copen­hagen. 
As far as Redman is aware, he is the only Notre Dame man who ranks as a foreign scr\'icc ofHcer in the State Department. If there are others, he would like to hear from them. 
(Ed. Note: Charles Callahan, 1938 Class Secre­tar>% had been granted his annual dispensation from gathering class neH-s early in August. Beginning sc\'eral weeks before each football season, Charles is necessarily preoccupied with sn-eral hundred foot­ball writers who keep insisting on exclusive inter­\-iew5 with every member of the coaching staff. He should be back in there typing come the next issue). 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. George D. Kerwin, a daughter Katherinc Mary. 
1940 
John G. Kelleher, M.D., announces the opening of his office at the Sccor Hotel, Room 1003, Toledo, Ohio. His practice will be limited to Plastic and Klaxillofacial Surgery and Reconstruc­tive Surgery of the Hand. 
Edward V. Kfinczeski announces the remo\*al of his law ofHcc to his new location. National Bank Building, Room 501, South Bend, Indiana. 
Walter L. Dray is now employed at the Elgin National Watch Company, Elgin, Illinois. The Drays have purchased a home at Crystal Lake, Illinois, their new address being Gate 19. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Afrs. Eugene P. Klier (College Park, Md.), a daughter, Gene Ann, Sept. 19. To Mr. and Mrs. ^ViUiam J. Mahar (Middle­port, N. Y.), a son, Joseph Philip, July 25. 
1941 "-l*^YEAR REUNION June 8, 9, 10, 1951 
Jim Lang, now the father of three boys (James 6, George 4 and Mark seven months) is an FBI Spe­cial Agent, attached to the Detroit office. 
1942 
Dr. Richard Matlavish is in general practice at Du Quoin, 111. He was married in February of last year to the former Muriel Dunn of Christo­pher, III. Richard informs us of the birth of a daughter, Mary Kathryn. 
Andy Gorka, who has been running the Gorka Sausage Co. for about a year now, was in Pullman 
Noyember-December, 1950 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
JUDGE THOMAS C. MURPHY 

Probate Judge of Wayne County (Be­troit) Michigan since 1934, Judge Mur­phy has no trouble keeping his identity in a town where there are six other j'udges with the same last name. 
A 1929 graduate of the University, Judge Murphy last year received a silver pin from the Detroit Commandery, Knights of Columbus to commemorate 25 years as an active Knight. He is mar­ried, has one daughter and no hobbies. **Too busy with the extra work demand­ed by the position," he explains. 
Among other duties, he is chairman of the Wayne County Election Commis­sion (which will have a job on its hands shortly counting" the votes for and against another University alumnus, Hon. Harry Kelly, former governor of Michigan), Chairman of the Soldiers and Sailors Relief Fund, and of the Wayne County Sinking Fund. 
Judge Murphy was married to Mar­garet Wesolowski, of South Bend, in 1927 and their daughter, Mary Ellen is 13. 
He is a native of Brazil, Ind., and was orphaned at the age of three. 
Besides his activity as a probate judge, he found time to rewrite the Probate Manual for the State of Michigan. 
Bank this week to report that he's received his orders to return to the Na\-y as a lieutenant com­mander in electronics. He's slated to turn up at a West Coast Naval Post shortly after Thanks­giving Day. 
Another bit of military news: Tom Poiwers, lat* of the Chicago Tribune Sports staff, was slated to return to the army. He had been a transporta­tion officer. ^Vhen I called the Trib, they reported he had already left. 
Several times during the summer I had short visits ^vith Tom Nash, who ranked among the best at Olympia Fields Country Club. He's one of those low 70 shooters. One afternoon Bud McCabe, 
who was with us a year or two and haib from 
Iowa, was Tcan's goest end turned in m i^enifid 
score. 
I've seen Al Aaastasta a few times and have 
a date for tomorrow's Chicago Financial Advertis­
ing Club's meeting. Al b now Chicago Advertising 
Manager for the Wall Street Journal. He's been in 
Chicago over a year now, after having been Ad 
Manager of the Southwest Edition of the Wall 
Street Journal, located in Dallas, Texas. 
Walt Ivandnc is going places in the New York financial circles. He's currently Assistant Vice-President of the Morris Plan Corporation. During the summer I had a chance to visit with CoL EUery Huntington and Ed McQuade, his superiors, and diey reported he's doing a fine job. 
At St. Agnes Church in Chicago Heights last Sunday I had a surprise tap on the shoulder after Mass. It was Walt McCourt, the Akron flash. He's a boundng 225'pounder now and is field reprcsentati\-e for Goodyear. Walt now lives in Park Forest, IB., the famous rapiiUy-growing Chi­c^ o suburb, after havimc been stationed for some time m New Orleans. He had a visit with Sirre GraUker not long ago and Ste^'e is single and doing right well selling insurance. Walt, in the 
plastics division of Go<>dyear, vnW now be able to itet together with John Bcigen who U\'es in Park Forest. 
It was good to see Bemic Crimmins do our class and NIJ justice during the TeleWsion broadcast after one of the ND losses(!) a few weeks ago. I was down for the North Carolina game and ran into Paul Derry at the Grotto, Jack Morrina at Phil Smith's after the game (in Chicago), and went with Bob Reed. Chicago Sun-Times carried a newsy story on Mike Kelly's recent promotion as ^lidwest Regional Sales Manager for Hallicrafters. Mike is married and lives in Evanston. 
&{ct Red LoBcrgan, now sporting flashy red bow tie, down town in Chicago a few weeks ago. Seems like married life is really o.k. He's travelled over 50,000 miles in the past year for his firm which sperializes in T-shirts, sweaters, etc. 
George Uhl called not long ago from his home near Harvey, 111. He's been ^rith Sincl^'s new plant. 
Ann and BUI Farrell report an addition to the family, as of Oct. 8 when blue-eyed Eileen Marie \iras bom. Bill's address is 2355 Wilh'amsbridge Road, Bronx 67, New York, N. Y. And from Cambridge, Mass., comes a report from the Jadk IHngcs of the arrival of James Dennis on May 26. 
Brother Aqninas came in for a visit several weeks ago. He had been teaching history and band work at various places—one year in Indianapolis, two vears at Taunton, Mass., two years in Albany, 
N. Y., and three years in Evansrille, Ind. He had hoped to enter the field of conser\-ation or forestry. He had also had some advanced study at Vandercook School of Music, Chicago, and Fordham University, New York. 
Awhile back, I received this letter from Tom Powers, that is some weeks before he was to leave: 
**Had a surprise visit from Bob Kehoe who is a counselor at St. Charles training school for bfiys. Bob has four children, looks swell, and promises to roll out the rug and put on a feast for 42ers who drop in but doesn't want any as inmates. Guess we'd qualify for Stateville first. Talked to Dott Figd couple of days a^o. Enjoyed Universal Notre Dame night with Mr. and Mrs. Byron Kanaley and Mr. and Mrs. Frank O'Dowd, joined by-Frank Kaiser of Chatsworth and Jim Rnppee. Expect to get down to South Bend to sec I^ml Ne\-ille and Fred Bcckman. How about a word from RctUy, Ed Ryan, Lee Bmby, Bob Hagan and Charlie Tobia?" 
That's it for this time. Now it's your turn to send in your comments. What you're doing. Re­member, IF IT'S NEWS? WRITE SCOOP. If it concerns YOU, it IS news! 
SYMPATHY To Lawremx Kdley, of San &(arino, Calif., on the death of his father. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Frederick H. Pauhnann, Jr. (New Rochelle, N. Y.), a son. Sept. 10. Other sons are Frederick, four, and John, two. To Mr. and Mrs. RkJiard T. Matlavidi (Dn Quoin, III.}, a girl, Mary Kathryn, Oct. 4. To Mr. and Mrs. Wilfiam Veagcr (Wheeling, West Va.), a boy in July. To Mr. and Mrs. WiBiam B. Madden (Lake Placid, X. Y.) a daughter, Kathlcca Louise, Nov. 5. 
n 
MARRIAGES Miss Jacqueline Ann Judge and Joseph Allan Seuffcrt in Rochester, Pennsylvania. 
1943 
\Mlliam Kccnan, having received his Li-B. from Harvard Law School in 1949, spent a year as law-clerk to U. S. District Judge George Sweeney in Boston. At present he is employed as assistant counsel to the Xew Haven Railroad with offices in South Station, Boston. Our congratulations to William on his marriage in the midst of all this activity. 
1944 
From Bni Talbot: 
Let's start with the notice that 30 men have 
changed address since the last column ^^•cnt to 
press. It is vcr>' possible that some of them have 
moved right into your neighborhood; and that one 
or two of them might have been among your vcr%" 
best friends at school. So why not drop us a line 
sometime for the address of an old buddy, or 
maybe just to say hello and let them know where 
you arc hiding out? 
.Another notice: Nick Mllarosa joins the ranks of 
apostates who have switched to another class. Tliosc 
rejoining the class are: John Duffy, Walter (Bud) 
Donnelly, John F, P, Murphy, Charlie Kocgler, 
and Jerry BroM-n. Another item of note: the class 
of '44 stands 28th in the first 45 in respect to the 
amount contributed to the Alumni Fund in 1950. 
The '44 contingent in the Xotrc Dame Club of Xew York inaugurated a ne\*' program this fall that is worthy of imitation. Before each meeting of the city club, the forty-fours and friends meet in a ncarfjy hofbrau for dinner and such. .Attend­ing thus far this season have been: John Afurphy, Ed Dowling, Ted Toole, Joe Gallagher, Jack Sul­lii-an. Bill Rogers, Frank Brady, Austin Jones, Andy McEIroy, Andy Barfaicre, John Duffy, Jerry Brown, Jim Finneran, Bud Donnelly and Chuck Koegler. 
And, finally, before getting on to the heart of the matter, we have a few notes from the above-mentioned nominating committee. From Jack Col­lins: "My class news is rather light, but I did have an occasion to talk with Dick 0*Hcam who has recently completed the F.B.I, training program and is now a Special Agent. . . . He had rccei\ed orders from Uncle Sam to report for active duty with the Infantr\', but was deferred." .And from 
John Lynch, some very happy news: a daugluer. Christina, was born to the LvTichcs on September 4. John reports he is working in sales promotion, while still selling an occasional stor>' on the side. John docs not like to talk about his writing, but we consider it a mark for our class, and feci justified in mentioning it in passing. 
Xow for some longer letters of information. In­cluding one from our correspondent, Tom O'Con­nor, who has been one of the column's mainstays since the beginning, way back when. Tom reports a bit of activity on the links this summer, and continues: 
'^I did get to the XD outing here this year—at Elmhurst Country- Club. Saw Eddie Dunigan, played around with Harry La%-cry, and sa^w a fe\** others I knew, Wally Rogers, Ray O'Csimcll. 
Concerning my vouncster. he's a terror now, 7 months old, standing, falling, crawling, and mak­ing life a bit hectic for Fran. He's really quite a guy, and if he keeps it up he should be one of the most aggressive guards XD ever had. 
"Frank Grm'ei (living in St. Louis with his wife) has been up here twice . . . he's a salesman with an engineering firm in St. Louis. He's the same as he was when we were sophs. 
**H. Ycates was in town yesterday and stopped up here . . . said he called your home the last time he was in X. Y., but no one was there.** To which we reply, wc are sorr>* to have missed Harry, and several others wlio have called. Keep calling, though. Only too glad to see or be of help to the lads who may be visiting Xew York. 
Three good paragraphs from Jack Crahan, writ­ten in early Xo\-ember: 
"I haven't seen you since our reunion so I'll bring you up to date on m>-sclf. I now- own half of the store (in Napoleon, Ohio) with my Dad, and he is beginning to take life eas>-. It looks as if this will be my address for the rest of my life, but I like it and there is something different going on cvcr>* minute. 
"But the big chance in my life will come the 28th of this month (November) when I get mar­ried. The girl is Gloria Cummings, a good Irish gal from Coral Gables, Florida. Her brother is a priest and is going to officiate. We plan on going to Nassau on our hone>*raoon and then will live here in Napoleon. 
**Wcnt to the game last week to see Michigan 
State-XD play, and ran into Dave Roney there. 
He was going to stay all night and return to De­
troit on Sunday." 
A brief and breez>' note from Howard Gamgan affirms that he is not married; that he is working, is well, weighs 172, and thinks he is getting fatter. Bob Ga]\in, one of the nominating committee, notes: ''because I left sdiool at the end of my Sophomore year and have been so far out of touch with people and events. I do not feel qualified to make nominating recommendations." But he is good enough to add the following short paragraph: "After a brief tour in the Armed Ser\'iccs, I was married in 1944. My wife and I now have a lovely home in Skokic, Illinois, where wc are busily raising three youngsters." 
A generous letter from Hank Dewes is exception­ally interesting: 
"Your note was just what was needed to get me in gear and contribute my news bit, although it isn't much. 
"My personal news is headed up by a marriage to Miss Sally Virginia Anderson of this city who is a new Catholic as well as a new bride. Well, fairly new—May 13. Shot our financial wad by lionc\'mooning at Chicago's Ambassador East, but had a fine time—bridal suite yet. When we were leaving I choked three times—but paid the bill an>•^\•ay. Wc arc. buying a ranch-type home and have plenty of guest room should you drop down this way. 
"Last week started my fifth year as an employee of International Har\-e5ter's local Refrigeration Di­vision. I work as a chemist in the organic finishes section of the Afetallurgical Labortor\-. The work is interesting but has fallen off during the past eleven weeks due to the current strike. 
"Saw the North Carolina game at N'D. My wife was complaining about a noisy, rabid X D rooter behind me. Sly second look at him disclosed Bemie Bowling of Kentucky* Avay. It really re­quired two looks because Bcrnie has really added the avoirdupois. 
"Saw Tom Halligan dashing through a gate with his wife—I presume—but couldn't catch him in the crowd. 
"Bernie told mc Earl Englert got a fine parking place for the game by delivering a sample of metal to a chemistry prof for analysis. That's my boy Earl. 
"Saw the Indiana game at Bloomington but didn't recognize anyone through my tears. Well, at least the school got a day off for beating us. Another debt to ND. We'll collect next year. 
The frau and I had a hit of good luck in Febru­ary by winning $1250 worth of fishing tackle. We won first and third prizes. Got fishing rods wc haven't even counted yet." For cheap rates, write 2511 Bayard Park Drive, £\-ans\'illc, Indiana. 
And finally we come to the most inspiring letter ever to appear in these columns. It comes from John Hickey, who has always graduated highest in cverx" school he has attended. Tlie last wc saw of John, as he remarks, was "at the officers' swim­ming pool on N.A.S. Pearl Harbor there in the spring of '46.'* the same place where wc last saw Bill Mulligan and Frank Stiunpf. John recaps events since then: 
"At the present time we're living in the Sher­wood area of Natick which is about 17 miles from Boston. ^Ve love it here away from the Hub and enjoy the commuting. Wc have two young­sters, Johnny Pat, ND '68, and Kathy Ann, Trin­ity, *70. 
"After finishing my last semester at ND in June, *47, having been married the preWous September, wc moved to Boston. Spent two busy but inter­esting years at the Har\-ard Business School. There were about 10 or 12 boj-s from Notre Dame there at the time. Their names appeared in your column on various occasions. It was because of graduation exercises at Harvard that I couldn't get out for our class reunion in *49. I saw quite a bit of Frank Eck while at school—he's now with Amer­ican Cyanamide in New York. 
"Here in Boston, I'm associated w-ith Jordan Marsh Co., in charge of inventory control. Used to lunch often with Charley Burice, '49, who was assistant buyer in the television department. Chuck left the store a few weeks ago, having received a letter which began, 'Greetings.* I sec Dan Shevaltn at the store now and then. We have a feu* sessions about the football games and hash o\-er the South Bend Tribune, which I receive daily. Dan graduated in '42 and is conducting the outside audit. 
**A nc*\* parish was formed here at Sher%vood and I ran into Bill Healy, who is an usher. Jim Gifaboiis, *38, was there, too, which led to a chat about the Na\*y game. It was a wonderful game under those or any conditions. Bob Sulli^-an, '43, lives a few houses from me, so we have quite a group in the neighborhood. 
Took my family out to South Bend for three weeks this August to visit the Hickey clan. The last of the six hoys in the family, Joe, graduated in June. I talked with all the family that gradu­ation night by phone—a great night for celebrating. But I was verj- sorry that I couldn't be there when the other five boys conducted a special graduation exercise at w*hich Mother and Dad w-ere awarded degrees—Maxima cum Laude. And these few-thoughts may express in a small way the reason for the award: 
Without having had the benefits of higher edu­
cation, you, Katherine Barbara and Thomas 
Louis Hickey, between I930-I950 made it pos­
sible for us, Tom, Louis, Don, Jerry, John and 
Joe, to receive the finest college education this 
land endows. Among the many, many wondi'r­
ful things, we love you—­
For hustling us along so we wouldn't be late 
for an 8 o'clock 
For warm greetings of 'how- did things go to­
day' after returning from classes 
For adrice and practical experience given when 
theory didn't quite work 
For words of encouragement when things 
weren't going just right—'Just do the best 
you can,* you'd say, and that was usually 
enough 
For prayers and vigil lights offered before all 
exams—you lived through them all with us 
And above all. for incrcasini; our dcvo'ion to 
Our Lady, The Spirit of Notre Dame. 
An astonishing letter, that leaves us overwhelmed with sudden and inexpressible pride in Notre Dame and in her many splendid sons, our fellows. 
And here is an open invitation to the horde of *44. This space will be blank next time unless one or two come through with a letter. Please drop us a note in the next couple of weeks. Or maybe tack a "hello" on your post-card ballot. There are many who would like to hear of you, just as you like to hear of them. 
That's all. Wrap it up. 
^Valt I^aBerse has finished his course work at Notre Dame for his Ph.D. degree and w-ill probably receive it in January* or June of I95I. At present, he has a tmsition as a ph>'sicist with the U. S. Naval Ordnance Test Station at Inyokcrn, Cali­fornia. 
Dr. Mandcll S. Ziegler recently joined the re­search staff at Du Pont Company's Polychcmicals Department, Experimental Station, Wilmington. Upon graduation from Notre Dame, Dr. Ziegler attended Kfichigan State College where he received his doctorate in organic chemistry in 1950. 
From J. Francis Car\-cr: "I met Paul Dugaa at the North Carolina game. He was sitting on the other side of my fiancee. We had a doubly fine time uhicli included an eve­ning at the Victory- Dance at the Palais Ro>-ale, and a 12:30 a.m. visit, in the company of our guests, at the Grotto. Paul snecializes in sntne part of jet plane w-ork. Also exchanged greetings with AI Fink before leaving the stadium. Mary and I were fortunate to have a nice talk with Father Leo R. Ward in Corby Hall. Also had a good word with Father Tom Brennan and Father Putz. 
'^Ve visited Gene Geissler and family (four girls) and Juliaii Pleasants and family (two boys), vvho are neighbors in the Christian Family settlement in Little Flou-cr Parish, Granger. That is about three miles East of Dr. Nutting's. Both men, with the help of others in the movement, built their own homes. Gene had just finished moving up to the first floor the day before wc stopped. 
'*Therc is a fine new college in Plattsburg here in the Northeastern comer of Neiv York State— Champlain, mainly a liberal arts school. The rea­stm {or xttcntioning this is to attract the attention <A some aliminus who might be looking for a teach­ing position. We would also be glad to hear from anyone who is interested in arts, crafts and rural life." 

ENGAGEMENTS Miss Winifrtd Theresa Sieger to Jowph Brenden FaiTdl of New York. Miss Barbara O'Neil to Dr. Robert E. Fumch . of St. Louis. Miss Mary Lavemc Herman to J. Francis Caoer. 
MARRIAGES Miss Mar>- Jane Peek to Robert J. Meuleman, June 30, North Syracuse, N. Y. 
1945 
YULETIDE GREETINGS!! 

May your Season be a truly enjoyable one! To all Notre Dame men a hearty Merry Christmas, and in particular, to the men of the class of *45 from your secretary. Among the Ne^v Year's reso­lutions, be sure to have "Drop Al a note" among the very top in priority. 
DID YOU KNOW THAT 

Daniel McNamara, Jr., is in general law prac­tice, associated with his father since March, 1W3 . . . that he is married, lives at 7002 Ridge Blvd., Brooklyn, N. Y., and is the happy father of Regina Marie, age 19 months and Ellen Maric» age 2 months . . . that Richard M. Sadowski is a real estate salesman in his dad's firm . . . that Dick is married and that his wife's name is Corinna; that they live at 961 Northeast 129 Street, North Miami . . . that he is a member of the Notre Dame Club of Greater Miami which recently had its annual picnic . . . that Louis J. Barsotti can be reached at 2562 Summer Avenue, Memphis, Tennessee, where he works as partner in the firm of O. J. Barsotti & Company . . . that James Joseph 
Clynes, Jr. (alias "Jim") is an attorney for the firm of Wise, Corlett and Canfield since October, 1948, after his graduation from law school at Cornell University . -. that Jim can be reached at 122 Fourth Street, Garden City, New York . . . that Fred Bremer and his wife, Mary, returned to Washington, D. C . from the West Coast recently because the stork is paying them a visit soon . . . that their address is 210 Webster Street NW, Wash­ington, D. C. . . . that this column depends on YOU for its news, so please write in!! 
MAILBAG 

"Letters From" Dept.: From Dick Miller, '46: "I noted in the last copy of the ALUMNUS you asked about John Fleaka's address; well, I think I can help you. I see John every couple of weeks here in Youngstown. You can reach him c/o Em­erald Inn, 2719 Market Street, Youngstown, Ohio. I hipe this will help you out." Thanks a million, Dick; it certainly will help me. 
From J. D. Usina: "Thanks for your letter of September, Al. I do get word from the fellows who were in the NROTC quite regularly, and you can count on my help insofar as possible. Saw three of my NROTC buddies at the disastrous Purdue game here a few Saturdays back. Written in haste bright and early Monday morning, best wishes." 
From Jim Clynes: "I correspond with Frank Linehan regularly. In fact, he visited me in Ithaca, New York this past August. At present, he is employed by the Knights of Columbus in the State Deputy's Office. I have frequent luncheon engage­ments with Hank Slamin, '48, Harry Walters, '45, Bob Rossitcr, '46, and Bob Walsh, '47. I am still single and at present have no intention of changing my status. Tom Herbert visited me in Ithaca dur­ing my recent \-acation and wc had two excellent golf games. He informs me that he may be taking the 'Big Step' in the near future." 
From Ed LaRocque; "I certainly enjoyed myself thoroughly at the 3-year reunion. Friday night I attended the class of '40 party in Alumni Hall and had a swell time with the members of the '45 class on Saturday. The outstanding thing about the reunion was the class spirit of most of the old grads. Hope all the metallurgists from '45 make the next reunion." 
'45 CLASS SPOTLIGHT 

Each issue this column will spotlight one of the members of the class of '45. This issue the man focused in our spotlight is the well-known NROTC alumnus. Bill Waddington, of 1338 Park Avenue, Chicago Heights, Illinois. 
Bill was born William R. Waddington on March 
3. 1924 in Chicago Heights, Illinois. He attended Bloom Township High School where he was Sports Editor of the bi-weckly "Broadcaster," president of his Junior class, and chairman of Athletic Assem­blies. In September of 1942 he entered Notre Dame —and Brownson Hall—where he roomed with Jim Ledwith, Bill Bracken and Rudy Anderson. Later, for five semesters, he went through NROTC rigors 
November-December, 1950 
with roomie riu^ Ward of Rockford. Illinois. 
Some of the fond memories of Notre Dame which 
Bill ^vill always cherish are those of Father Brennan, 
Professors MuUally, Ranch, O'Malley, Langford 
and the evenings in Father Charles M. Carey's 
Walsh hall room getting out copy for the SCHO­
LASTIC. 
Bill was Sports Editor of the N D nc\n magazine 
during 1944, and was an intramural basketball 
official for three years. Some of his most enjoyable 
times were had while making trips with the foot­
ball team acting as "spotter" for Harry Wismer 
(/\BC) and for Dick Bray (WLW, Cincinnati). 
"My toughest course was Father Leo R. Ward's 
"Philosophy of the Mind," Bill laments, "hut I 
enjoyed it almost as much as "Logic," and "Philos­
ophy of Literature." Next to studies, I recall that 
I liked eating at Rosic's best." 
Bin graduated with a Bachelor of Naval Science 
degree in February 1945, and returned to N D to 
receive his Bachelor of Arts. Since his graduation 
in June of 1947, he has worked for three years as 
Space Sales Representative for the Chicago Tribune, 
and since last July has been Advertising Space 
Representative for Chain Store Age, which is a 
trade magazine. His duties consist of travelling 
to the major cities of the mid-West calling on 
equipment manufacturers. 
On July 6, 1946. Bill married Miss Dorothy Edwards, sister of Don Edwards, '49 (Law). Mr. and Mrs. William R. Waddington are the proud parents of Mar>* Virginia, 3 ^ years old, and Kath­leen Ann. 8 weeks old as of September 30, As for his plans for the future. Bill says he'd like to continue in the advertising game; he is making a note on his calendar to attend the 10-year reunion at Notre Dame in June of 1955 when he expects to sec the whole class. Good luck Bill, to you and to your lovdy family! 
YOUR SECRETARY REPORTS 

Thanks many times for the very nice response 
to my pica for class news. We're going to need 
plenty more, so don't hesitate nor put it off—do 
it now—drop mc a postcard or a short note. 
LOST and FOUND DEPARTMENT 

Two new lost cases occurred this month, as mail 
to the following men was returned to me unfor­
wardcd: Frederick J. Biggs and John B. Caron, 
Will you drop me a line and let me know the cor­
rect addresses for these two men of our class? 
We'll have more news for you next issue. 
John O'Donnell is a salesman in Chicago for Ayerst, McKenna and Harrison, Ltd. (drug prod­ucts). John lives at 730 Ashland Ave,, River For­est, in. 
MARRIAGES Miss Kathr>-n Elaine Mcrkert to William Joseph TuIIy, Sept, 9, Larchmont, N. Y. Miss Lcona Josephine Monson to James William Shaeffer, Oct. 28, River Forest, III. 
ENGAGEMENTS . Miss Margaret Mary McCabc to William E, Har­rington, Jr., of Tuckahoe, N. Y. 
Your class sccretar>': Al I<esmez, 61-56 82nd Street, Elmhurst, New York. 
1 94 6 —3-YEAR REUNION June 8, 9, 10, 1951 
Capt. Joseph Hannon, now on active duty at the U. S. Army 155th Station Hospital in Yoka­homa, Japan, would very much appreciate hearing from any of his old classmates who might be in the same x-icinity. 
Joseph R. LoCasdo announces that he is now engaged in the General Practice of Law with 
SILVER LINING DEPARTMENT 

Something to gladden the heavy heart of 
any Alumni Secretary has just happened.. 
A member of the Class of '46 has volun­
teered to assume the burden of gathering 
class news and sending in class notes. 
The name of this candidate for immortal­
ity is JACK TENGE, JR. 
Address: 722 SOUTH MERAMEC DR.. DAVIS PLACE, CLAYTON 5, MISSOURI 
All members of the Class of '46 with ideas 
or intentions concerning next June's Fi%-c-
Ycar Reunion are invited to send same to 
Jack as a second to the nomination. Class 
notes are also welcome. 
Complaints should be sent the managiDS 
editor. Please be nice to Jack. 
offices at 11 West Prospect Ave., Moont Veraott, 
N. Y. 
Bin Carey is with the Delphi Oil Corporatioa, 1315 Pacific Ave., Dallas, Texas. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. Joseph P. Rndd (Hoosttm, Texas), a daughter, Margaret Rose, Sept. 14. To Capt. and Mrs. Joseph L. Hannon (Yoka­homa, Japan), a son, John Joseph, June 25. 
MARRIAGES Miss Bcmactine Thcrese Maloney to Dr. ]Uibert Francis Dicad at Chica^. Miss Dorothy Neises to John J. CNcili at Gar­den Plain, Kansas. 
1947 
Don Claeys, Bffl Pfiiter. BOI Klem and your cor­respondent have been recalled to active duty in the 
U. S. Navy as a part of the call up of Naval Re­serve officers underway for the past month or so. Don has already shipped out of a west coast port aboard a tanker; VSEL PCitcr is to report for duty in Bayonne, N. J., for his ship, at the time' this is written, and BUI Klea has bad four weeks of training at Glenview, Illinois, and will leave-in a few days for a ship out of Norfolk, Virgima. 
I receix-ed my orders just twenty-four hours ago .. . the last of the group. Will be aboard a carrier out of Bremerton, Washington. Probably a number of other reser\'e officers have received notices in the past few weeks but we have not been informed as yet. ' 
Had a long letter from Bod Gotia, Chicago, who is with the Lincoln National Life, as regional group manager. Also saw John Caraa at the Michigan State game. He mentioned that Ed Handlan is 5\>'eating out his orders down in St. Louis. 
It has been a great deal of fun to write these class notes for the past few years and I do hate to let go as Secretary, but I think someone else should step forward now and carry on. I hope he doesn't' find the Class as reluctant to talk about them­selves as I have and maybe he will have a few tricks up his sleeve to smoke out news. Please send in the news to him in care of Jolm Boms at the Alumni OfiBce. 
Your Class Secretary: Joseph D. Usina, 219' South Scott Street, South Bend, Indiana. 
Gc(wge Brccns writes us from SaU>urg, Austria, where he is doing counter intelligence work for the U. S. Army. He says that distance has only served to whet his appetite for news of his alma mater. His present address is: Hq. 430th CIC Dct. 
A.P.O. 541, c/o P.M., N. Y., N. Y. 
MARRIAGES . Miss Patricia Kirk to Raymoad | Erwin Loy at Knoxville, Tenn. Miss Margaret Anne Powers to John Dtedrick Naber at Milwaukee. 
BIRTHS To Mr. and Mrs. John Robinson, (BcUalre, Ohio), a boy in August. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Robert A. Erkins, a boy, Gregory Todd, on Sept. 19 in Palm Desert, CaliL To Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Snee, a girl, Julia 
Ann. on Sept. 29 in South Bend, Ind. To Mr. and Mrs. William Gompers (Wheeling, West Va.), a boy in Aprfl. To Mr. and Mrs. Melvin W. Gelber (Hasbrouck, ^'- J-)» a girl, Linda Cecilc, on Oct. 30. 
1948 
Jolm F. Raake, of Applcton, Wisconsin, has re­cently accrptnl a position with a casualty company as a trainee in their Chicago branch office. 
Samad Haw has been informed that he has suc­cessfully passed all the preliminary requirements for Officer Candidate School. He is now awaiting his class assigiunent by the Air Training Command. 
Don Diederiil is with the Layne-Northwest Com­pany in Milwaukee. 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Eva Sawtelle Coffin to Joka WiOiaH NoonaB of Medford. 
MARRIAGES Miss Kathleen Kelley and Hobcrt W. Silelka­berg at Washington, D. C. Miss Mary Catherine Dobbeck and Edward M. Krakniec at Forest Park, HI. 
BKTHS To Mr. and Mrs. George M. Koty (Bend, Ore­gon), a boy, Kevin. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Robert Raney (Dayton, Ohio), a daughter, Sept. 25. 
1949 
After leaving Westinghouse in Sharon, Pcnnsyl­\'ant3, Nick Fanu is now on the pa\Toll of RCA in Camden, N. J., doing an overseas job. 
Dick Ryfaar is attending the U. of Pitt, working 
on his Ph.D. degree-
John Parker is now with the Blockson Chemical 
Co., Joliet, III., working as production engineer. 
Joseph 0*BoyIe has been informed that he has passed the preliminarx* requirements for Aviation Cadet Training. 
Jack Lowe has taken his physical for the draft and feels that his call is imminent. Jack Clark has filed papers with the Army Air Corps for a resen-c commission. Geor^ Kicman expected to be in the service by now; however, we liavc no verification of his present status. 
Chaplain Maurice L. Sulli\'an is with the U. S. Army in Germany. 
Joseph Sar^us attended a six-iveek course in ^cw York Cit>' this summer at the Juilliard School of Music. 
Fred Veit is the South Bend representative for the Paramount Coffee company ot Lansing. Mich. Fred was recently married and he and his bride are living in South Bend. 
MARRL\GES 
Miss Sara Theresa Boulus to Richard George 
Abowd, Jr., in Concord, N- C. 
Miss Patricia Eileen Baker to John Frederick 
Kinney in South Bend, Oct. 7. 
Miss Lilian Letcher to John M, Vaselin in 
Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame, Nov. 4. Miss Afadelyn Vanyo to Raymond Ke>-5, June 17. Miss Matilda Dewey George to Robert Duffy, 
May 6. 
BIRTHS 
To Mr. and Mrs. Walter J. Younger (St. Cloud, ^(innesota), a boy, Michael Gerard, on Nov. 5. 
1950 
Jim Young has accepted a job whh the Civil Service Commission at the Puget Sound Naval Base, Bremerton, Washington. He started w-ork there Nov. 10. 
Flii] McCartin, after a tour of Europe this sum­mer, has settled in Milwaukee, where he is in a sales tr^ning program at Cutler-Hammer Electric Co. Phil was in town for the Purdue-Notre Dame game. 
Bill Gallaglier is working for the C.Y.O. in Monroe, Mich., as the Executive Secretary. At the same time he is attending Wa>-ne (Detroit) School of Social Work as a graduate student. Bill reports that he likes the work very much. 
Bill Zdinpfctuug is %i-ith the Bendix Products Corp., in South Bend. He has the position of Equipment Designing Engineer. Don AfcAfanus is now associated with the Cressy & Everett Realtors in South Bend. 
Joe Gonzalez writes from Laredo, Texas, that he is now with the Texas Highway Dcpt., and that he spent a short \*acation in Monterey, Mexico, before beginning work. 
Bill Wagner is wth the Oliver Corp., in South Bend. He and bis family reside at 1612 Leer St. Ei^ene FfulUps is now employed by the National Machinery Company in Tiffin, Ohio. John Gal­lasbcr has a job with the Conco Engineering Works in Mendota, Illinois. Gene Emerson has accepted a position with the Cherry-Bturell Corp., in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, as an Engineer in Training. John McLaio has recently accepted a position in the Industrial Engineering Dep^utment of the American Viscose Corporation in Fredericksburg, Virginia. 
The class of 1930 seems to have a special attrac­tion for our Uncle Sam. William Murphy reports a call from the armed forces. Jim Sheehon took a short trip to California soon after graduation, but was called home to Denver to report for U. S. Army Service. 
Jolin Healy writes from I^ewood, Ohio, that he is awaiting his call sometime in January, having a deferment until then. Ed Williams is awaiting a commission as chemist in the Medical Ser\ice Corps., O. R. C. John Wludcn was drafted Oct. 
23. George Simpson passed all the preliminary re­quircmcnts for Aviation Cadet Training and is awaiting the notification of his class assignment. 
Uncle Sam has pronounced Ed Ryan, Bill Henon and Paul Sheedy as ph>'sicany fit. They expect to be drafted before Christmas. TTie information on the Ottawa men comes from Frank Keating, '49. 
Latest report places Jack Thornton, class presi­dent, with tlic Naxy in the Pacific. 
We also have the actiWtics of the other class officers. Verne Kelly, vice-president, is attending Loyola La^%' School in Chicago. Secretary Jack Connor is enrolled in the DcPauI Law School. Treasurer Tom Farley is in the Ro>-al-LiverpooI ­training program. 
From Vems KcUy: Joe Herrington, ex-editor of the Scholastic, is working for the Indianapolis News; Patd Lcamy has a job in Atlanta; Bud Romano, Matt Romano, Hugh Mulligan, IU)beT Hosbcin and Jack Vainisi were sojourning in Europe during tlie summer, but have returned to the fatherland. 
Anotlier Loyola Law-schoolcr is Bill O'Brien. Joe Archibald and Bill Kennedy are both ^v'orking in Chicago. Bill O'Connell is with his father's Chev­rolet dealership. 
News on the pros: ^^^gfatkin may be classed rookie of the year with the Bears. Ernie Zaiejski is w-ith Baltimore; Coutre with the Packers and Kc\-in 0*Shea with the ^linncapolis Lakers. Jacfc Vainisi is scout and assistant general manager for l!ic Green Bay Packers. This, of course, is not a complete list of pro-athletic activit>- amongst our *50 graduates. 
Robert Wechsler, William Taffel, and John Healy have received notification that they have passed the preliminary- requirements for Officer Candidate School in the U. S. Air Force. 
Collected items on some of the Ciril Engineer Graduates: Donald Zwerski is field engineer with 
Frederick Snare Corp., Jamaica. David Robison is field engineer with Parsons, Brinkerhoff, Hall and MacDonald, Tampa Bay, Florida. Earl £ . Whittttg is field engineer with Clyde E. Williams and Associates, South Bend. Stanley Swanicke, Chief Sand Drain Inspector, New Jersey Turnpike Engineers, Ne^vark, N. J.; Hub:rt Fischer, Engi­neer in Tnuning, Ohio Highway Dept., Delaware, Ohio; Tom McGoire, Neil MacKay, and George CBricn are engineers with Illinois Highway Dept., located respectively in Dixon, Paris and Ottawa. John Deegan is Highway Engineer with the Ken­tudcy Highway Dept., Ikfanchestcr, Ky. (John was married in August). 
Robert Emmet Murphy is taking courses at Notre Dame towards his doctorate. FJA Fleming has headed for the coast where he will go to work for Douglas Aircraft in Santa Monica. Bob Wil­moatli IS with the First National Bank in Chicago. DOB McManus is in the contracting business in South Bend. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Xfarion Bock to William G. Mahoney in Mishawaka, Xnd. Miss Helen Louise &ItK!>iIlian to Paul Augustus Hutchin in Yonkcrs, N. Y. Miss Mary Jane Hiss to James Francis Twomey in South Bend, Oct. 7. 
DEATHS 
James Raymond Sharkey, Oct. 26, in Scottdale, Pa. He is survived by his wife, Gladys, and three children. Ray had been a teacher and coach for the past se\'en years. 
ENGAGEMENT 
Miv Ellen T. Coakley to Michael Owen O'Neil of I.archmont, N. Y. 

CLASS SECRETARIES 
1890-1899 
1900-1904 ROBERT E . PROCTOR, Monger Build­ing, Elkhart, Indiana 
1905-1909 REV. THOMAS E. BURKE, CS-C, Presbytery, Notre Dame, Indiana 
1910 REV. MICHAEL L. MORIARTI-, 3343 E. 93rd St., Cleveland, Ohio 1911 FRED L . STEERS, 105 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Illinois 1913 PAUL R. BYRNE, University Library, Notre Dame, Indiana 1914 IRA W . HURLEY, 208 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 4, Illinois 1915 JAMES E. SANFORD, 509 Cherry St, Winnetka, lllincns 1916 GROVER F . MILLER, 612 Wisconsin Ave., Racine, Wisconsin 1917 BERNARD J. VOLL, 206 E. Tutt St, South Bend, Indiana 1918 GEORGE E . HARBERT, 108 North Main St., Sycamore, Illinois 1919 THEODORE C . RADEMAKER, Peru Foundry Company, Peru, Indiana 1920 LEO B. WARD, 458 S. Spring St, Los Angeles, • California 1921 DAN W. DUFFY, 1101 N.B.C Building, Cleveland 14, Ohio 1922 GERALD A. ASHE, 39 Cambridge St., Rochester 7, New York 1923 PAUL H . CASTNER, 1305 W. Arlington Ave., S t Paul, Minnesota 1924 REV. THOMAS A. KELLY, C.S.C., Cava­naugh Hall, Notre Dame, Indiana 1925 JOHN P. HURLEY, 1218 Cty Park Ave., Toledo, Ohio 1926 JOHN J. RYAN, 2434 Grcenleaf Ave., Chicago, Illinois 1927 JOSEPH M . BOL\ND, Radio Station WSBT , South Bend, Indiana 1928 LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, 4700 West Adams St., Chicago 44, Illinois 
1929 DONALD J. PLUNKETT, Biology Depart­ment, Notre Dame, Indiana 1930 DEVERE PLUNKETT, Sodal Science Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana 1931 WALTER F. PHILIPP, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pennsylvania 1932 JAMES K. COLUNS, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9, Ohio 1933 JOSEPH D . A. MCCABB, Rosary College, River Forest, Illinois 1934 EDWARD F. MANSFIELD, 6575 N. Glen-wood, Ap t 1, Chicago, Illinois 1935 FRANKLYN C . HOCHRETTER, 1327 Pent-wood Road, Baltimore 12,. Maryland 1936 JOSEPH F. MANSHELD, 423 S. Main St, Oow n Point, Indiana 1937 FRANK J. REILLY, 1651 Metropolitan Ave., Apt 7F, New York 62, New Yoric. 1938 CHARLES M . CALLAHAN, Sports Publicity Department, Notre Dame, Indiana 1939 VINCENT DECOURSEY, 1917 Elizabeth, 
Kansas Gty, 2, Kansas 
1940 ROBERT G . SANFORD, 1103 E. Kensington Blvd., Shorewood, Wisconsin 1941 JOHN W . PATTERSON, JR., 5530 Darling­ton Rd., PittslMirgh, Pennsylvania 1942 WILLIAM E. SCANLAN, 400 East llith St, Chicago 28, Illinois 1943 JOHN L. WIGGINS, 6442 Latta St., 
Dallas, Texas 
1944 WILLIAM F. TALBOT, 300 Main St, White Plains, New Yoric 1945 A L LESMEZ, 61-56 82nd St, Elmhurst, Ne w York 1946 JOHN TENGE, JR., 722 S. Meramcc Dr., Davis Place, Clayton 5, Missouri 1947 JOSEPH D . USINA, 219 S. Scott St., Soudt Bend. Indiana 1948 HERMAN A. Zrrr, Dayton Product Co., Warren at Apple, Dayton, C^io 1949 JOHN P. WALKER, 135 Soudi LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Illinois 

:f or 6ob, Countrp, anb ^otre Mamt, in ^lotp CtKtlaftting 
OUR FIRST CASUALTY OF WORLD WAR III 
Not many of you, perhaps, read this Class Note in the September-October Alumnus: 
"Eduard J. Kicsling writes that his M>n, Curtis 
J. Kicsling. M9. left Aug. fi with the First Marine Division for the far cast. Curt entered Notre Dame the summer of '45 and joined the Na\y V-12 unit here in the fall. He completed his flight train­ing at Dallas. Texas, in 194fi and returned to Notre Dame to resume his studies. He graduated >vith honors in Political Science in June. 1949. His post-f(raduate work was token at the University of Chicago and he was then miphiyed with the U. S. Rul)ber Co. He would appreciate hearing from friends and those he worked with in Catholic .Actiim and Concord Magazine." 
On November 28, Curtis Kiesling was killed in action in Korea. Little can be said to ease the pain and shock for parents, for Classmates, for friends. Little can be said to resolve the political con­troversies in the midst of which he died. 
But in the fixed truths that were an integral part of Curtis Kiesling's family, his Church and his school, the confusion of his world yields to the order of the Will of God. 
Curtis Kiesling is the first of a new group who answer for all time the purpose of Notre Dame. He believed in God. 
He believed in man as a creature of God, made in His image and likeness. He believed, as did Americans before him, that God endows His creatures with certain unalienable rights. He believed that the rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness are as essential to the Korean on the other side of the world as they are to the American on this. 
He believed that America should moke sacri­fices for the right, as God gives us to see the right, so that government of the people, and by the people, and for the people, should not perish from the earth—^from any part of the earth, where men desire freedom. 
He believed in a Book which says that a man has no greater love than to lay down his life for a friend. 
To a young man dying in this pattern of eternal truth, who can say that death is untimely, or that achievement was cut too short. Certainly no monument to known or unknown soldier is as great as the memorial he has erected for himself in the very act of dying. 
The civilized world is itself a testimonial to the faith, the integrity, the love of men like Curtis Kiesling. 
To make known these virtues, to train such young men, to preserve such a world, Notre Dame exists. 
Curtis Kiesling is the first Notre Dame man to die in action, so far as.we now know, in the war in Korea. Our prayers are naturally that he will be the only Notre Dame man asked to make such a sacrifice. 
But in a struggle that engages ogain, in another crucial epoch of world history, not nations or races, but men who believe as Curtis Kiesling be­lieved against men who would uproot the prin­ciples on which those beliefs rest, there is little hope that peace will be bought so cheaply. 
We can only remember that no price can be too high, and that the only true victory is beyond the force of man to deny. 
Curtis Kiesling, Notre Dame man, has won his peace. May he intercede for his world and for us, as we pray for his soul and the souls of the faithful departed. 
May Our Lady, Whom he loved, in the new glory of Her Assumption, receive this loyal son into the company of the saints. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG 
Editor. 

Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—/V/ncniv—Glenn J. McDonougli. '32. 1807 W'. Campbell. Tucson—Trd W. Witz. '29. Box 628. .\Rlv.-\NSAS—/"nr/ 5«r//i—Ra>inond A. Marrc, t\­37, 229 Mcrcliants National Bank Bldg. 
C.-\LIFORNIA—/j)l Ansclcs—Louis Bciardi, '30, 4519 W. Cahuenga Blvd.. .N. Holl>-«ood. Bakfrificlii—(In protc^j—K\Ton J. Coleman. '40. secrelar%'-treasurer. Bakervfield Savings & Loan Ajsociiiion. IG12 20lh St. A'or/Arrn-William T. Daly, '41. Room 308, Bank of Commerce Bldg., 1540 San I'ablo Ave­nne. Oakland. California. Saa DiVeo-Emmett A. McCabr. '29, 4258 Summit Dr., LaMesa. 
COLORADO—£).n.-.r—Thomas G. Currigan. '41. 4519 W. Calhoun Blvd.. .Vorth Holl™ood. I(t7 Farmington Av e Watcrbur>*. 
CONNECTICUT—Connfc/iVul FoHo-—Matthew C. Meskill, '29, 101 Greenwood St.. New Britain. Naugatuck . Valley—D. Frank Murnane, '32. 107 Fannington Ave., \Vaterbur>*. ^.ruJiit'L-sli-i It—^Joseph McNamara. '29, I'ine Tree Road, P.O. Box 202. Stepney. 
DELAW.^RE—Arthur .\. Baum. '35. 1517 North Franklin St., Wilmington. DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA—H'oi/iiiic/.m—Tliomas 
J. Flvnn. '35. 1108 S. Alfred St., .Alexandria, Va. 
FLORID.A—Crrn/rr .l/iomi-Faris N. Cowarl, '34, 1803 S.W. 8th St.. Miami. Fort Laiidi-TflaW—William .-X. Wilkinson. '33, 
c/o Florida State Rd. Dept., District oOice. Norlh Florida—John F. Lanahan, '43. P.O. Box 1697. Jacksonville. 
GEORGIA—William H. Schroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rnm»>n Rd., Atlanta. IDAHO—Paul J. Kohont. '23, 1722 Washington St., Boise. ILLINOIS—Crn/ro.' ///"iioiJ—John Lynaugh. '39, 318 State House. Springfield. C/iiVoiifi—Alfred C. Stephan. Jr.. "31. 348 .Maple St.. Winnelka. 111. Easlrrn Illinoh-Ja'.m Mcj-er, '42. 1314 f ZU'K­lin. Danville. Fox I'oH.T—George R. Schmidt. '29. 620 Sum­mit. Elgin. JoFiel-Kankakre-Arthur Smith, Jr., '48. R.D. No. 2. fcoria—James Kelly. '43, 712 Butler St. Rock River Valley—l'au\ J. Fr}-, '27, 101 First St. Dixon. I.VDIAN.V—Coflimr/ CiJ/riV/—James J. Glenn. '33. 1337 119th St., Whiting. Eastern Indiana—William S. MacDoitald, '27. Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Muncie. Fort H'ajii.—Edward J. DJKcr. '39. 2501 So. Webster St. Indianapolis—^Han'ey Foster, *39, 327 Federal Bldg. Miclrgan Cily—Dr. C. W. Kolanczjk, '33, 1311 Washington St. St. Joseph I'oHo^-John G. Farabaugli, '37, 1703 McKinley Ave., South Bend. 
Tri-Slate {Ky., Ind. and III.)—Robert Lamey, '28, 517 Lewis Ave., E\-ansville, Ind. Wabash Valley—W. W. Runge. '39, 408 W. Market St., Crawfords\-ille. 

lO\i.\—Des .1/oinM—Joseph E. Case}-, '41, 832 Dcs Moines Bldg. Dubuque—Robert II. Kenline, '35, 418 Bank & Insurance Bldg. Tri-Cilies (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—Jerome C. Arnold, '24, 1019 Daven­port Bank Bldg., Davenport, Iowa. Sioux-I^nd—Edw*ard Simonich, '39, 1605 Main 
St., Siou.x City. K.\NS.'\S—fiiJl«rii—Judge Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. KENTUCKY—Roger J. Hu-,ir. '40. Huter-Quest & Co., 833 W. Main St. LOUISIA.NA—.V<:a> Or/<-onj—Thomas F. McMahon, '29, 624 Gravier St. 
Northern Louisiana—Ja'mes R. Nowerj'. '29, P.O. Box 1545, Shreveport 94. ^L•\RYLA^•D—/Jo/d'morc—EdwTird F. Sporl, '34, Mgr. United Fruit Co., Pier One, Pratt St. 
.\I.\SS.-\CHUSETTS—Boj/on-Jack Nye DufTcy, '35, Room 1024, 40 Broad St. Pioneer Valley—llcnry M. Padden, '24, 342 Sar­geant St., Holyoke. 
.MICHIGAN—Cerrien CounI)-—William II. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave., Niles. Blue Water Di"j/nr/—William L. Wilson, '42, 
P.O. Box 295, Port Huron. 
Central—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '21, 604 Willow Lansing. Bfariorn-Jack Courtnev, '25. 401 S. IlighUind. 
B<:(ro;(—Louis P. Malone. '15. 3121 W. Mc-Nichols Rd. Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—Edu-ard 
R. Dunn, '36, 2309 Riverside Dr., N.E., Grand Rapids. WiaMiK/iQ/oni/-Michael D. OTIara. '33, Spies Bldg.. Menominee. Iron Range—Robert T. O'Callaghan. '45. 635 McLeon .\ve.. Ironwood. .l/onr.ir--Thomas E. Griffin, '33. 205 E. Third Street. Saginaza Valley—Carl W. Doozan, '38. 723 S. Fayette Street, Saginaw. 

.MINNESOTA—Ttfin CiliVi—Michael Keegan, '41, 6221 Bryant Ave., S., Minneapolis 19. Duluth-Superior—Wm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Duluth. 

.MISSOURI—A'onjai City—(,y[o. and Kans.)—Ed­ward J. Rcardon, '37, 600 Fidelity Bldg., Kans. City, Mo. St. Louts—Vincent J. Fehlig, '34, 7011 Lindell. St. Louis. 
MO.VFANA—Bernard Grainey, '43, 801 12th .Ave., Helena. .NEBRASK.-\—Frank McGrath, '24, Chief, Boys Guides, Boj'S Town, Neb. 
.VEW JERSEY—Joseph A. Abbott, '30, 273 Park .-\vc.. Paterson. CcM/ro/-Micliael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy. South Jersey—Valentine B. Dcalc, '39, RCA \nctor Div. 13-3, Camden, N. J. 
.NEW YORK—Cnfofo—George W. Ferrick, '41, 124 
E. Winspear .Ave. Capital District-Andrew M. Pinckney, '41, 14 Circle Lane, Albany. Central—John H. Terrj', '43, 158 Robineau Rd., S>Tacuse 4. Mid-Hudson Valley—Francis J. SanHlippo, '47, 51 Violet Place, Rliinebcck, N. Y. Mohaivk Valley—Edward Noonan, *47, 102 But­ler Ave., Utica. Xew York Ci/)^-James H. Shells, '33, 30 Pine Street. Northern—^Joseph R. Brandy. '21, St. Lawrence Broadcasting Corp.. Ogdensburg. N. Y. Tlor/ici/cr—Richard T. Sullivan, '32, 29 Elm­dorf Ave. 11. Schenectady—^William G. Leonard, Jr., '49, 
1046 Baker .Ave. Southern TiVr—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamil­
ton St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—Dr. ]. Worden Kane, '26, 53 Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 

OHIO—.4lro«—William Ahem, Jr., '39, 3120 Me­dina Road. Con/on—William II. Bclden, '36, 305 22nd St., N.W. Cinrfnnat""-Robert C. Burke, '37, 3402 Cornell Plate. CfcrWatirf—John J. Elder, '30, 2345 W. Third 
• St., Cleveland 13. Co/i/rafciij—John J. Gcddes, '32, 213 N. Eureka. Dayton—^Andrew A. Aman, Jr., '30, 618 Ridge-dale Rd., Dayton 6. Hamilton—Judse Harry F. Walsh, '31, Muni­cipal Court. 
Ohio Valley—Joseph F. Saisus, ex.'49, 333 19th St., Bellaire, Ohio. Sandusky—Ailred A. Schnurr. Jr.. '28. 3413 S. Columbus Ave. Tilfin—Fred J. Wagner. '29. 152 Sycamore St. 7"o/«rrfo—Faustin J. Solon, Jr., '38, 3701 Doug­las Rd. Youngstown—Francis Hopkins, '41, 3646 Strat­more Ave. 

OKLAHOJiIA—OWa/iomn Ct'/}'—Haskell Askew, '31, 624 Tradesmen National Bank Bldg. Tufsn-Loyd F. Worley, '39, 2333 So. Evanston. 
OREGON—Oscar Quoidback, '48, 325 N.W. I8th Ave., Portland. 
PEN.NSYLVANIA—£<u/<Tn—Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. 3004 Turner St., Allentown. £ric—Joseph C. Barber, '36, 703 Ariel Bldg. llarrisburg—Wm. J. Moore, '26, 3760 Montour Street. 
Mottongahela Valley—Charles R. Montgomcr>', '33, 102 Price St., Belle Vernon. /•/ii/arfW/i/iia—Ambrose F. Dudley. Jr.. '43. 32 
N. Second St. Pi7(jl>argA—John P. Montevcrdc, '38, 320 Fourth Ave. 5cron(on—Michael B. Comerford, '43, 1203 Richmont St. irai-«-Barr«—Edward J. Rowan, '33, 34 VVest North St. iri7/iamj/),ir/—William R. Downs. "08. 1013 Thompson St., Jersey Shore. Pa. 

RHODE ISLAND and S. E. JUSSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '38, 412 Providence St., Woon­socket, R. I. 
TEN^NESSEE—C/ia/Zenooea—Thomas B. Owen, '33, 4113 Mayfair Ave. .Memphis—Eugene J. Podesta, '48, 263 Stone­wall Place. 
TEXAS—/>a/.'aj—James L. Walsh, Jr., "30. 5323 Monticello. Hoiu/on-Raymond B. Keating, Jr., '35, 1433 Commerce Bldg. 5art Antonio—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 Stan­ford Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kcarns Bldg., Salt Lake City. 
VIRGI.MA—Charles .M. Morrison, '38. Pump House Road, Richmond. 
W.XSHINGTON—Spota/Kr—Vincent P. Slatt, '43, E. 515 Ermina. Spokane 13. Western—\V. Jerome Kane, '38, 10304 Vahnay Ave., Seattle 77. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Albert H. Kcssing, '40, 923 Montrose Dr., S. Charleston 3. 
•WISCONSIN—Fo.v Ricer Kaf/ey—Robert Bernard, '36, 953 Higgins Ave., Neenah, Wis. Green Baj^-Thomas F. Heardon, '27, ' 135 Marsh St.. West DePere, Wis. LaCrojK-Augtist ^L Grams, '28, 217 S. Front Street. -»fi;:rauirr—Richard S. Balliet, '33, 10619 W. Grantosa Drive. South Central—Francis D. Hamilton, '30, First 
National Bank Bldg., DodgeviUc. 

FOREIGN CLUBS . Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, (key man) La Metropolitana (711), Habana. HattiBii-Thomas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opihi St., Honolulu, T. H. 
/ Manila—Anthony F. Gonzales, *25, (key man) The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life Bldg. 

MEXICO—Mexico City—Teimo DeLandero, "37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. I'anama—^William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, Ancbn., Canal Zone. Puerto fiico—Paul F. McManus, '34, (key man) 
B. & M. Products Co., Box 2695, San Juan. 
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS 





