The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
.TRIPLE CITIES • TRI-STATE • TUCSON • TULSA • TWIN CITIES • UTAH • VIRGINIA WEST-CENTRAL CALIFORNIA 
:^/' 
1* 
O 
-n/ r 
**•-•>"<? 
I Magazine ^Is p«faGdied bl-MonHiIy by the University of imiDoiie, ia 4A55^ iKoad doss postage paid ot Notre 
You remember the great power failures that plagued the coimtry. Millions of people found out how paralyzed many of their commonplace activities could be when their power source was lost. 
In a strong, and growing, sense, Notre Dame is your power­house. It provided the great thrust that sent you into your adult life. And in one way and another, it has provided booster shots for your power through the years since. In this issue of the ALUMNUS, you will find a number of examples of connections that keep you plugged into the stream of University power: 
Universal Notre Dame Night, for example, sends a rich diversity of campus current into the many local Alumni Clubs. 
Bob Cahill reminds you of the traditional football power that has charged up Alumni from coast to coast over the years. 
Probably the most important and modem develop­ment in the campus powerhouse is the Continuing Education Cen­ter and its pro-



T^ Gomment 
Thomas Bergin. Here is being created for you a new source of power, specially adapted to the increasing need for booster shots that the explosion of knowledge has imposed on even the most educated strata of our society. We have had some enthusiastic comments on the new ALUMNUS, which we expect to apply also to the present NOTRE DAME. These magazines are a continuing power supply for the many facets of your Notre Dame interests. The modernization program is to meet the new needs of a changing alumni world. 
Also in this issue, the new Class Agent Program is introduced. This personalized, supplemental. Class approach to a stronger Annual Alumni Fund is simply an effort to insure the continuing flow of increased power from Notre Dame to you, in both the quantity and quality your growing stature calls for. 

The conclusion of this little allegory is obvious—but bears emphasis. 
All these things are accessories that make yoiu* life more meaningful, and more enjoyable. Plug them all in. Make sure the power supply has enough support to prevent its failure. And in spite of occasional flickers or interruptions, try not to blow a fuse. 
universal ND ni third year of A ^ 
--•>'^


alumni seminar in JEind|/Wy 
restructure alumni fund 
Alumni President's Letter rear cover Classes 16 Law School 40 Clubs 34 Potpourri 2 Editorial 1 Sports 42 
SIGHTS AND SOUNDS OF ND 




potDomTi 
INTERFAITH DISCUSSION OF VATICAN II: Theology in a UN setting complete with translators. 
OPEN NEW INTELLECTUAL CROSSROADS 
P
EOPLE throughout the world focused their attention on Notre Dame two weeks ago, and what they saw was a Catholic university in perhaps its finest hour. 
Gathered for one week in the University's emblazoned new Center for Continuing Education to discuss the implications of Vatican n, was a group of Christian-Judean theo­logical giants whose names read like an international who's who. The towering epilogue to the ecumenical council, however, was more than mere discussion; it was a spectacular setting for the dedication of the $1.5 million structure, the announce­ment of two theologiccil institutes at the University, and the awarding of 20 honorary doctorate degrees. 
According to many the March 20-26 conference on "Theological Issues of Vatican H" was nothing short of a historic first for the United States. From many corners of the world, including Europe, England, Latin America, Canada and the US, Vatican n Catholic 'periti and hierarchy traveled to Notre Dame to meet their fellow Church­men and, especially, to have a frank theological intercourse with leaders of the Jewish, Orthodox and Protestant faiths. 
These personalities included such widely-known Catholics as Abbot Christopher Butler OSB, Canon Charles Moeller, Abbe Francois Houtart, Godfrey L. Diekmann OSB, Yves Congar OP, Henri de Lubac SJ, Karl Rahner SJ, Bernard Haring CSSR, Barnabas Ahem CP, Walter Burghardt SJ, John Courtney Mur­ray SJ, Thomas Stransky CSP and many more. 
Non-Catholic Participants: Promi­nent Protestant figures appearing on the week-long program were Dr. George A. Lindbeck, Dr. Paul S. Minear, Dr. Joseph Sittler and Dr. Albert Outler. Jewish leaders who played active conference roles in­cluded Rabbi Abraham J. Heschel and Rabbi Marc H. Tanenbaum. Representatives of the Orthodox faith figuring as active participants in the sessions were Rev. John Meyendorff, Rev. Alexander Sche­mann and Rt. Rev. Georges Florovsky. 

The conference agenda included addresses and discussions on a wide variety of Vatican Il-related topics, such as the liturgy, revelation, the Church, ecumenism, relations with 
ALUMNUS MARCH \966 APRIL 

non-Christian religions, the role of the layman, the Church in the con­temporary world, marriage and family life, culture and politics, religious freedom, economics, inter­national affairs and the impact of Vatican n on theology in America. 
Simultaneous translations of the 
inter-faith, multi-lingual dialogue 
were available to conferees and 
guests in French, German and 
English. In addition, the conference 
proceedings were recorded in their 
entirety for future publication by 
the University of Notre Dame Press. 
More than 400 conference par­ticipants and guests in the Center, and untold thousands watching the proceedings on closed-circuit tele­vision on campus and in five major US cities, heard University Presi­dent Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC declare the symposium, "con­tinuing education at its best." 
A Special Dimension: In his dedica­tory remarks. Father Hesburgh further noted that through the beneficence of the W. K. Kellogg 
Foundation, Notre Dame now adds 
a very special dimension to the 
total substance of learning: becom­
ing a crossroads that welcomes 
trafiBc from every intellectual direc­
tion. 

"Of course," added Notre Dame's president, "one could say this of every great university. But Notre Dame is a crossroads in a very special way. We are clearly, openly and unashamedly interested in the spiritual and moral dimensions of man's main problems in our times. .. . May its (the Center for Continu­ing Education's) motto, for all the years to come, be: nil humamim mihi alienum — nothing human is alien to me—no spiritual concern, no huma n knowledge, nothing human is alien here." 
Following Father Hesburgh's re­marks and the appearance of the Valparaiso University choir at the dedication and blessing, Dr. Emory Morris, president of the KeUogg Foundation made a reply. He in­dicated that it was with much con­fidence in the worth and the in­tegrity of Notre Dame that the Battle Creek firm's foundation saw fit to add another continuing educa­tion facility to those already estab­lished in the US and abroad. 
New Tiieology Programs: The inaug­uration ne.xt September of a Grad­uate School of Theology and the establishment at the University of an Institute for Advanced Religious Studies also were announced by Father Hesburgh. The former wiU offer programs leading to the doc­torate level, and will be open to both clerical and lay students of all faiths. 
Under the directorship of Dr. James Kritzeck, the Institute for Advanced Religious Studies wiU be devoted to research in a wide variety of fields relating to religion and contemporary life. The Institute wiU be patterned, in part, after the Society of Fellows at Harvard Uni­versity and the Institute for Ad­vanced Study at Princeton. 
Honorary Degrees: The academic highlight of the week-long confer­ence was a special University-wide 
convocation March 23, during which 
20 of the leading conference partic­
ipants were awarded honorary doc­
tor of laws degrees. 

Abbot Christopher Butler of Downside Abbey, England, a leader in the ecumenical movement and the theological renewal in that country, delivered the principal con­vocation address on "The Ag­giomamento of Vatican It." 
LAETARE MEDAL: 

Mr. and Mrs. CFM 

The University's traditional fourth - Sunday - in - Lent announce­ment this year named a widely-known alumnus and wife, recipients of the Notre Dame Laetare Medal. Mr. and Mrs. Patrick F. Crowley from Wilmette, HI., organizers of the world-wide Christian Family Movement, become the first couple to share the award which has been presented annually by the Univer­sity since 1883 to an outstanding American layman or laywoman. 
For nearly 20 years, Pat, a 1933 Notre Dame graduate, and his wife, Patricia, have been building the Christian Family Movement from their Chicago headquarters as secre­tary-couple to the National Co­ordinating Committee. Of late, the strength of the international 100,­000-family organization has been evident in the presence of the • Crowleys on the Papal Commission studying problems of family and birth regulation. 
University President Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh CSC, in naming the couple to receive the gold Lae­tare Medal, remarked . that this couple, ". . . parents of a son and three daughters, including 'a nun, have, through the years, shared their hearts and their home with a dozen foster chUdren and a number of for­eign students. Moreover, at a time when the family is threatened by harmful influences and pressures as never before, they have dedicated themselves in a truly apostolic spirit to the strengthening and invigora­tion of famDy life everywhere. Be­cause they have shared the leader­ship of the Christian Family Move-
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

ment, and in a very real sense been its continuing inspirational force, it is especially fitting, I think, that they should also share together the highest honor the University of Notre Dame can bestow." 
The Laetare Medal, generally re­garded as the most significant an­nual award conferred upon Catholic laymen in the United States, has been awarded to 67 men and 18 women in its 84-year history. Re­cipient of the first Laetare Medal was Historian John Gilmary Shea in 1883. Subsequent awardees have included US Supreme Court Chief Justice Edward Douglas White (1914), Statesman Alfred E. Smith (1929), Tenor John McCormack (1933), Philanthropist L A. O'Shaughnessy (1953), Labor Leader George Meany (1955), Diplomat Qare Booth Luce (1957) and the late President John F. Kennedy (1961). 
Bot h native Chicagoans, the Crowleys were married in 1937 after Pat had received a JD from Loyola University Law School and Patty, a Trinity graduate, had studied at the Sorbonne. Besides various legal afiiliations as a trust and corpora­tion lawyer, Pat has been active in the K of C and Holy Name. 
Both Crowleys come from fam­ilies having long-standing ties with the University. Pat is the brother of Jerry '31 — president of the O'Brien Corp. and a member of the 
University's Board of Lay Trustees 
—and the son of the late and dis­
tinguished alumnus, Jerome J. '00. 
Mrs. Crowley is the former Patricia 
Caron, a member of the New 
Rochelle family, benefactor of Notre 
Dame. 
The Crowleys have four children —Patricia (now Sr. Mary Patrick OSB), Patrick Jr., Kathy and Mary Ann. Religious and civic activities too numerous to mention have brought them honors from Mun­delein College, St Mary's and Notre Dame (Pat is a member of the Law School Advisory Council) and the Medal "Pro Ecclesia et Pontiflce" from the late Pope Pius XII. 
PATRIOT OF THE YEAR: 

Senator of Senators 
Senator Everett McKinley Dirksen came to the University fresh from the floor of the Senate and a debate on Vietnam. The face was younger than anticipated, the hair not so dis­arrayed as caricatured, but the voice and the flowing oratorical style were unquestionably the same. 
Senator Dirksen was at Notre Dame to accept an honor bestowed upon him by the Senior Class: the Patriot of the Year Award for 1966. And he left behind his own eloquent portrait of the American patriot. 
He read verses from the Battle Hymn of the Republic, quoted from 
the Declaration of Independence, 
and "wove the tapestry that we call 
America." 
The prime ingredients for patrio­

tism are commitment and sacrifice, 
qualities evident in the early colo­
nists, the founders of the United 
States and those who have died 
through the years and the wars "so 
we can enjoy Scotch and sodas, air 
conditioning, milk shakes and sirloin 
steaks," said the Senator. 
This portrait of patriotism does 

not include draft-card burners and 
the so-called "Vietniks," continued 
Dirksen, urging they "ought to go 
back to their history books and see 
who provided what we have today." 
"They never burn draft cards 

behind the barn or in the cellar. 
There must be a network camera 
nearby, or it isn't successful." 
Included among the great patriots 

must be the men who have died 
fighting for the United States and 
freedom, commented the Senate 
•Minority Leader. It was this strong concept of patriotism and freedom that gave them "the sense of the thing for which a man will die." 
From the Battle Hymn of the Republic he drew the phrase: "As He died to make men holy. Let us die to make men free." This belief, said Dirksen, is still alive today, amid the dissenters and demonstra­tors. He told of a wounded Marine in a naval hospital saying, "I have to go back to Vietnam. I have to 
SENATOR EVERETT DIRKSEN: PATRIOT OF THE YEAR So we can enioy Scofch and sodas, milk shakes and steaks 
AlUMNUS MARCH W66 APRIL 

help finish the job." 
Dirksen was selected as the ISth annual Patriot of the Year by ballot­ing among the Senior Qass. Nine other figures were on the ballot, including Ambassador Arthur Gold­berg, Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, Senator J. William Ful­bright and Gen. Maxwell Taylor. 
VISITING SPEAKERS: 

Varied Philosophies 
At any truly great university, the academic door must remain open for students and educators to sample the facets of all issues. Without such a free and thorough investigation, the prime ingredients in education— search and curiosity — would be stifled. 
The procession of speakers en­tering the doors of Notre Dame in recent weeks has offered just such a varying selection. The guests ranged from ministers to actors, from editors to ambassadors; and their phflosophies attacked issues from all sides. 
Among the more recent guests was Dr. Ralph Bunche, former Nobel Peace Priz e an d Presidential Freedom Meda l recipient. Dr. Bunche keynoted the annual Inter­national Forum, attended by stu­dents from as far away as Califor­nia, with an address on "The Strug­gle for Peace." 
United Nations Security Council President and Japanese UN Am­bassador H. E. Akira Matsui also addressed the forum, focusing on "The UN's Role as a Peace-Keep­ing Body." Both guests provided a prelude to the student-operated Little United Nations Assembly. 
A more liberal political position was offered February 26 by actor Rober t "Man from UNCLE" Vaughn, who lashed out at the radical right as a political force. Vaughn drew several parallels be­tween the radical right groups, such as the John Birch Society, and inter­national Communism. During a sub­sequent question period, the Cali­fornia Democrat said the current policies in Vietnam would lead to World War HL 
A less drastic approach to the Vietnam question was offered in an earlier address by Bernard Fall, professor of political science at Howard University. Although he presented no concrete aims or solu­tions to the conflict. Fall presented a somewhat pessimistic outlook as he delivered facts on the military, economic and political situations plaguing Southeast Asia. 
FATHER GOAAAR DEPAUW, TRADITIONAUST How ya gonna keep 'em down on the {arm? 
Further escalation of the war was the strategy caUed for in a speech by Time Associate Editor John Scott in a February 16 address. Citing the Greek civil war of 1945-49, Scott said such a "wEir of liberation" could be won, but it necessitated a military superiority of at least 8 to 1. The only way to succeed, Scott declared, is through escalation now. Analyz­ing economic factors and the historic distrust North Vietnam holds for ajna , Scott dismissed the threat of Chinese intervention on behalf of the Viet Cong. 
A similar liberal-conservative con­trast was seen on the theological front, when a Unitarian minister defended atheism and, two weeks later, Fr. Gomar DePauw called for returning Latin to the Catholic liturgy and denounced the "Protes­
ROBERT VAUGHN 

tantized, hootenanny Mass." 
Tells Uncle to Withdraw 

Fr. DePauw, founder of the Cath­olic Traditionalist Movement, was denied permission to speak on campus and to celebrate Mass at Notre Dame. A student organiza­tion. Young Americans for Freedom, sponsored Fr. DePauw's appearance, and he spoke at a downto\vn hotel after being turned down by two other establishments. 
The Unitarian minister, Rev. Joseph Schneiders from South Bend, titled his earlier address "In Defense of Atheism," and addressed an over­flowing crowd on campus. The only test for the validity of a religion. Rev. Schneiders explained, is that a true religion leads to a meaningful life. Atheists are not fools cor­rupted by passion, but are people not convinced that a god is neces­sary for a meaningful life. A former CathoUc, Rev. Schneiders said the Church should teach more St. Francis and less St. Thomas, thus substituting charity for an 
RALPH BUNCHE THE UN: a Way to Peace 

emphasis on faith and justice. 
Speaking on a different topic, and not in direct conflict with any other guest, was Dr. Charles Appel, pres­ident of the American Medical Association. In his February 22 ad­dress. Dr. Appel attacked, not Med­icare, but "four contemporary med­ical problems: mental health, alcoholism, drug addiction and ve­nereal disease." Dr. Appel drew a similarity from all the social dis­eases, showing a deep relation to mental health problems and citing their rising occurrences among col­lege-aged people. The expanding urban society and increasing density of population were cited as two main factors influencing these trends. 
PRE-MEDS: 
Degree Awaits 
The University's Academic Coun­cil cleared the way in February for more than 100 former three-year premedical students to receive bach­elor of science degrees from Notre Dame — almost for the asking. 
The movement to bring these for­mer students — now doctors of medicine, osteopathy or dentistry — into the graduate ranks of Notre Dame was undertaken several years ago by Dr. Lawrence Baldinger, for­mer dean of the College of Science and, now associate dean and head of the department of preprofessional studies. 
Dr. Baldinger's proposal was final­ly made ofiicial with the council's decision and the final approval of Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC. Now, the former students, some of whom are the University's most loyal supporters, may receive de­grees and full alumni status. 
Basically, the degree candidate need only have received a degree from a recognized school of medi­cine, osteopathy or dentistry, prior to which he completed a minimum of six semesters at Notre Dame. The degree wiU be dated according to the class the former student was as­sociated with, and will be signed by the dean of the College of Science at that time. Once before, during the World War II years, the University awarded degrees to three-year pre­medical students who had completed only two years of medical school. This practice, however, was discon­tinued upon cessation of hostiUties in 1945 when Notre Dame reverted to the two-semester school year. 
Candidates may file their request for degrees through letters to Dean Frederick D. Rossini, College of Science. 
THAT CHALLEN-GE n r bit shake you up a little, gentlemen? Relax. Challenge Hr probably won't start until June. This is only April. We're kidding, of course, and just trying to mislead you into the annual ticket story for Alumni. Neverthe­less, a third major campaign al­ready has begun on Carder Field, where Ara and his fine staff are beginning their own Challenge HI, the 1966 football schedule. We're bracing ourselves, too, after the welcome shocks of five rapid-fire sellouts last August, followed by a record home attendance of nearly 300,000. Final statistics dis­closed nine sellouts out of 10 games for the season. I'm sure many of you were caught in the squeeze, even though as Alumni you enjoy some measure of priority. Remember, the Alumni Association increases membership each June by some 1,500. Since we are a comparatively young group, actuarially, Alumn i preference means less each year UNLESS you make a real effort to digest and follow our distribution poUcy, set forth here for 1966. Many of you seem to be vague on the date re-



Get Ready, It's 
quirement for the Annual Alumni Fund contribution. I refer you to Point 1 below. You must be a con­tributor as of the PRECEDING calendar year to be eligible for Ad­vance Sale privileges. 
I recommend careful reading of the "Season Ticket Information," particularly for Alumni who need not travel great distances to home games. It's a good buy, and the time may not be far off when the season ticket may become the only means of purchasing additional tickets for home games. 
It appears now that general (or public) sale of tickets for Army at home on October 8 and Michigan State at Lansing November 19 wiU. be either impossible or very limited. So, use the following information to your advantage and don't get caught short when the 1966 Fighting Irish take the field to continue their rightful place among the top ten. 
Advance Sale Procedure 

1. Contributors to the 23rd An­nual Alumni Fund in 1965, religious and honorary degree holders, plus the June Class of 1966, are eligible for Advance Sale order forms for 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 


By ROBERT CAHILL '34, Ticket Manager 
address changes. So, if your ad­dress differs from that used for this issue of the ALUMNUS, forward that change at once to the Alumni Office. 
4. Advance Sale forms are limited to TWO TICKETS per game, are not transferable, and will be honored until July 15 or until the ticket supply is e.xhausted. SEATS ARE AIXOTTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH DATE RECEIVED, modified only as follows: Orders arriving BEFORE opening day (June 20) are integrated at random with those received on June 20. At close of business June 20, all applications received to that point are thoroughly shuffled, DRAWN BY LOT AND ASSIGNED A SEQUENCE NUM­BER to establish the order of seat assignment for each game for all orders on hand opening day. Since 3,000 or 4,000 orders for each of the more popular games will arrive for processing on June 20 (accounting for 6,000 or 8,000 tickets), obviously even a first-day order for such games could be on the 50-yard line or beyond the goal line, DEPENDING 
Season Ticket (more about Season 
Tickets below) orders are satisfied, 
ONLY 4.000 TICKETS ARE AVAIL­ABLE IN NOTRE DAME STADIUM BETWEEN THE GOAL AND 50­YARD LINE IN THE ALIBINI SECTION. Hence, for the more pop­ular games, it is readUy seen how a first-day order could fare poorly, and how an alumnus waiting to file his order until July 1 or after can e-xpect nothing but seats behind the north goal (see diagram). Most games away from home present even more seating problems because of the small allotment normally available to the visiting team in proportion to the geographical bal­ance of our following. 
General and Block Sales 

5. General Use ticket applications are mailed annually to ALL Alumni the latter part of July, prior to the August 1 opening of public sale. While it is possible that Advance Sale described above could claim our entire ticket supply, as of now we feel there will be public sale for all games EXCEPT ARMY AND MICH­

CHALLENGE III--or-the Third Year of ARA 
the 1966 football season. A con­tribution recorded after January 1, 1966, affords ticket priority for the 1967 season, but NOT for this cur­rent year of 1966. Many Alumni send in a year-end donation which is not recorded in the Foundation's books until after the new year, and therefore their address plate is not included for Advance Sale envelopes. Try to think back, and if this picture fits you, then tell the Alumni Office now to credit you for a 1965 con­tribution. 
2.
 Alumni Advance Sale opens June 20 and closes July 15. Any order received after that date, re­gardless of the category of order form used, will receive general use treatment. Nor is an order filed be­fore July 15 guaranteed a preferred location (see Point 4, below). 

3.
 The Alumni Advance Sale order form is designated as such in bold type on its face for ready identifica­tion. Eligible Alumni should receive these just prior to June 20. If you have not, and you're certain of your eligibility, notify the Ticket Manager at once. Our envelopes are addressed by the Alumni Association, but filled and mailed by the Ticket Office. Omissions are usually caused by 


ALUMNUS MARCH 19(56 APRIL 

ON THE LUCK OF THE DRAW. This is the answer to the Alumnus' question as to why, although he ordered for all games on the very first day, he may receive fine seats for one game and poor ones for another, or fine seats for all, or poor seats for all. After Monogram and 
NOTRE OAUE 
GATC3 4 
^"^fZi ~vw -••As^^E.­
'^^-^^*^5ri 
-cz
36 

-^ 
IGAN STATE. However, that can­not be determined until July 15. General Use forms are transferable and usually valid for an unlimited quantity of tickets. THE CONTRIB­UTING ALUMNUS WHO HAS ALREADY USED HIS ADVANCE SALE FORM FOR TWO TICKETS 
 STADIUU 
-6 

 Alumni (wariabU) ScoMn TicVatt and Foculry  Viiiting Tw m (verlabU) 
I Uitivtnitf Adm'in'itlroilen 
I Student Body 
"aifc-IS 

eATc-14 <SA7£-3 
=471-/(7 
ROBERT CAHILL Another 10 Sellouts? 

MAY PLACE ADDITIONAL ORDERS VIA THE GENERAL FORM Moreover, the General Use form is a convenient reminder to the noncontributing Alumnus that tickets are avadlable. These General Use forms carry no locational prefer­ences, as all such orders are filled sifter Advance Sale purchases. 
6. Public sale opens annually on August 1. The Ticket Committee will be glad to send public order forms to any addressee upon request as long as tickets are available. 
Alumni Clubs 

7. Alumni Clubs planning on a block of tickets must file a request with the Ticket Manager BEFORE JUNE 20. Final action on block orders may not be taken until individual sales close July 15, and then only if suificient tickets remain. However, a tentative reservation will be made, and an Alumni Club will be given preference in case of short supply. For some games no groups 
Aw, come on/ 

The year-end Urgent Gram proved 
that economy can be expensive. It 
was a two-purpose reminder: to con­
tributors, that they would receive 
ticket application preference in 1966, 
with the schedule of games for 1966; 
and to ncn-contributors, that they 
still had time. We thanked the con­
tributors and asked the non-contri­
butors to act promptly. Excuse the 
confusion. Never again! JEA. 
EXCEPT Alumni Clubs may be con­sidered, probably Army and Mich­igan State. But as to seat locations for groups, the following is positive: BLOCK ORDERS ARE FILLED FROM SEATS REMAINING AFTER ALL INDIVIDUAL ORDERS HAVE BEEN ASSIGNED. THIS PERMITS ONLY END ZONE SEATS, INVARIABLY. 
8. Alumni Clubs frequently ask for two or more seats in "choice location" for raffle or fund-raising ing game by game. It is renewable awards. Because of the problems automatically each May 1, with no-described in Point 4, unless a Club quantity limit. If location is not member (or members) surrenders pEiramount, an alumnus may assure his AdvEince Sale privilege for the himself of any quantity of tickets game desired, tickets for prizes must for each game, renewable each year, be of the general sale variety. via the Season Ticket plan. Alumni 
might presume, after looking over the stadium diagram, that the Sea­
The Season Ticket Situation 
son Ticket locations shown in the Each yesir, many Alumni ask if it alumni sections (Sections 8 and 9) is to their advantage to use Alumni are held by, and available to, alumni Advance order blanks, game by only. Not so. These Season Tickets game, or buy a Season Ticket for were available to anyone prior to admission to all home games. The 1943, when the alumni section was answer depends on what the alumnus more than adequate. Because of the wants. If two tickets meet his needs, renewal feature of Season Tickets, then he should use his Alumni Ad­removiil of these patrons from vance privilege. Although this priv­alumni sections is a slow process. 
ilege doesn't guarantee preferred However, we have not sold any location (again see Point 4, above), Season Tickets in Sections 8 and 9still the opportunity is there. WiOi SINCE 1942. The Season Ticket the Season Ticket there is no alumni sale opens annually on May 1 and we preference, sind only end zone seats shall be glad to send complete in­are available. However, it is cur­formation upon request. 
rently $2.50 cheaper than purchas­




Meet the Class of '66: 
Horace, the ancient Roman poet, once said, "He possesses dominion over himself, and is happy, who can every day say, 'I have lived.'" With this in mind, we can say that there are a vast number of happy seniors this year. With the second semester well under way, most seniors can look back on a memorable and rewarding senior year. 
All the class commissioners are to be praised for performing outstanding jobs, and the Class is to be congratulated for its active participation in and support of everything the Class has undertaken. Most praise, however, must go to the Class officers— John Buck, president; Greg Rust, vice-president; and Jamie Toohey, treasurer—^who have done the brunt of the work in making this an outstanding year. 
In football, the Senior Qass witnessed a 7-2-1 season and saw their classmates achieve a Number 8 national ranking. Seniors DICK ARRINGTON and NICK RASSAS were everyone's All Americans. These two, plus TOM LONGO, BILL WOLSKI, PHIL SHERIDAN, BOB MEEKER, TONY CAREY, TOM TALAGA, MiKE WADSWORTH, ARUNAS VASYS, and MIKE WEBSTER, were drsifted into the professional football ranks. The Senior football trip to Miami over Thanksgiving vacation was very well attended, and was under the direction of BILL O'DONNELL. 
Also in athletics, the Class of '66 had the distinction of wit­nessing the worst season in Notre Dame basketball history. The team, however, despite their unimpressive record, was a very spirited group, due mainly to the inspiring leadership of Captain BUCKY McGANN and the steady play of TOM BORNHORST and KEVIN O'NEIL. 
On the social side, in quite an unprecedented move, the Senior Class started a Class Bar in the basement of the Flamingo Res­taurant. Its success has been greater than anticipated, and it appears that this "experiment" will become a regular part of each senior class in years to come. Its success shows that seniors can accept the responsibility when it is given them, and may be a step toward opening the door to more responsibilities and liberties in the future. The bar has operated under the very capable direction of TOM GARTNER and BRIAN BOYCE. The Senior Key Club, which sponsors concerts and parties for members only, has also been a huge success. Its 600 members have enjoyed a social func­
• ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

SCHOLAR ATHLETE: easier classes, taught by professors 
who are prone to give "grades sub­

Double Standard? stantially higher than (the ath­
letes') work merited." The Univer­

Lightning struck, at first creating sity's Honor Code was falling prey 
a smsdl brush fire smoldering on the also, contended the student news­
horizon. Then, distant winds picked paper: "It seems clear that athletes 
it up, others fanned the blaze and get away with far more than their 
now, it smokes in all quarters of share of cheating. . . ." 
the University. Obviously, such a public statement 
It began as an editorial in the bi­did not go unnoticed outside the con­weekly newspaper of the Student fines of Notre Dame, although sev­Government: "The Voice would like eral weeks passed before the nation­to speak out against the special aca­al news stories appeared. The Wash­demic treatment offered athletes at ington, DC Post and the Chicago Notre Dame. This double standard Sun-rimes carried the stories, and is found in the areas of course sched­the flames appeared even more crim­uling, honor code violations and son and hot than before. The Voice grade preferences. It is not a recent fired back, denouncing the exaggera­innovation; it has become ingrained tions and misquotes used in the Stin­in the Notre Dame tradition. There Times article, which was written is no doubt that this double standard after a personal interview with the is an accepted part of campus life." Voice editor, senior Steve Feldhaus. 
The fire crackled higher. 

The editorial alleged that athletes at Notre Dame were provided with On March 11, the student maga­

INNOVATION and DISTINCTION 
tion weekly at numerous places, presenting various talent, and will continue to do so throughout the year. The Key Club is under the direction of social commissioner DAN OLSON. 
Another liberty granted the Senior Class has been "organiza­tion cars." Any organization in need of frequent transportation may have a cax on campus to use in carrying out their oflicial du­ties. This year also saw the inauguration of the stay-hall system, in which three experimental halls — Dillon, Alumni and Farley — intermingled students from all four classes. This system showed adequate success, but there are still some fiaws to be worked out. 
This year, the Seniors' Patriot of the Year Award was pre­sented to the U.S. Senate Minority Leader Everett M. Dirksen. The program was the best attended Patriot's Day Ceremony. BILL SCANLON was the chairman of the exercises. 
The Class of '66 has inaugurated a Student-Faculty Cocktail Hour at the Senior Bar. Here, the faculty and students can sit and discuss Class matters, politics, or any other subject in a natu­ral, enjoyable atmosphere. The cocktail series is under the direc­tion of HARRY McDONAGH, the Class academic commissioner. Harry also directs the Class Lecture Series, which has brought to campus such distinguished speakers as Robert Short, author of the Gospel According to Peanuts; Eugene Carson Blake; and Rabbi Plotkin, one of the few Jewish Notre Dame alumni to become a rabbi. 
The Class of '66 has the distinct pleasure of being the first class to enjoy co-exchange classes with St. Mary's students. A new distraction has been added to many classrooms, and more male students are found "across the road" than ever before. A shuttle bus between Notre Dame and St. Mary's, which makes more than 40 round trips each day, has also instilled new incen­tive in the relations between the two schools. All these things have led to a record number of SMC seniors being miniatured or engaged to Notre Dame men, and have caused many a senior to wonder what he's been missing for three years. 
Future happenings — concerts, parties. Senior Week, the Senior Prom, the Alumni Banquet, and graduation—promise to make these next few months as memorable as those that have come before. The Seniors have experienced a year of adventure, recreation, achievement and romance. What more could you ask for? 
zine. The Scholastic, entered the fray with an editoriai addressed to Feldhaus. "To act as you did," stated Tlie Scholastic, "indicates, in our opinion, irresponsibility and poor judgment." This opinion, the editorial expledned, was based on the grounds that Feldhaus did not bring his accusations and supporting facts before the proper authorities prior to his publication of the editorial. 
"It seems to us," said The Scholas­tic editors, "that facts substantiating these accusations should have been presented to the proper authorities, to either Father Hesburgh, Father Joyce, Father Walsh or one of the deans." In not doing so, Feldhaus "ignored a number of cheumels which, if used, could have solved the problem much quicker and with less national publicity. ... " 
The methods employed by Feld­haus were said to be inappropriate, yet The Scholastic did not support 
by RICHARD ANGELOHI, Sec. 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
THE BAND OF THE HGHTING IRISH Eleven planned concerts before more than 20,000 people are ahead of the Concert Band during their 4,000-mile Easter tour 
or destroy the accusations. And there the fire remains. 
BAND: 
Spring Au Go-Go 
Once again, Easter vacation for the members of the Notre Dame Concert Band wUl be spent on an an­nual spring tour, playing 11 con­certs, before some 20,000 people, over more than 4,000 nules. 
Getting under way with an Eas­ter Sunday performance in Mon­mouth, HI., the concert band will conclude the whirlwind tour April 21 in EfEngham, HI. In between, the band has engagements in Kansas, Arkansas, Missouri, Oklahoma , Texas, Colorado and New Mexico. 
Touring since the 1920's, the band has played in 40 states, Mexico and Canada, receiving enthusiastic reviews from such leading news­papers as The New York Times, the Philadelphia Inquirer, the Chicago Tribune, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and the Miami Herald. 
Through these years of experience, the concert band has designed musi­cal programs to suit aU musical tastes and preferences. A typical program includes classical, semi-classical, popular and novelty selec­tions. Li addition, marches, en­sembles and soloists are featured in each program. 
The band's schedule of tour per­formances is: April 10, Monmouth, m.; 11 — St. Joseph, Mo.; 12 — Larned, Kan.; IS — Pueblo, Colo.; H — open; IS — Fort Wingate, N.M.; 16 — Albuquerque, N.M.; 17 
— Amarillo, Tex.; IS — Oklahoma City; 19 — Fort Smith, Ark.; 20 — St. Louis; 21 — Effingham, HI. 



TOPSIDE BRIEFS 
Miss Dailey's Bequest 
Miss Florence M. Dailey was virtually unknown in Rochester, N.Y., where she lived, but when she died February 9 at age 86, she reportedly left $8.5 million to the University of Notre Dame. Another $8.5 miUion was bequeathed to Georgetown Univer­sity from the estate totaling more than $19 million. If validated in the courts, this would be the largest single gift in the history of Notre Dame, and would boost the University's endowment to more than $50 million. The 1933 will specifies that the bequest be used for scholarships to needy students. The great bulk of Miss Dailey's estate consists of stock in Eastman Kodak Co., which she began buying as a b£mk president's secretary before the turn of the century. The will is contested, however, by the only surviving relatives, a niece and two nephews, and it is felt at the University that it may be some time before the question is resolved. 

Propose Change in Academic Calendar 
A first semester that ends before Christmas, coupled with graduation in May, are the primary character­istics of a proposed major overhaul for the academic calendar at Notre Dame. For many years, contro­versy has raged around Christmas vacation splitting the first semester, leaving a two-week sprint to final exams. Likewise, the idea of ending a semester in the warm days of May and June appealed to very few. This year, the change might be coming. A random sampling of the student body was conducted by the University's Academic Calendar Committee the results of which will weigh in the final admin­istrative decision. After being offered newsletters outlining pros and cons, students voiced their prefer­ences among three possible ways of organizing the calendar. All three alternatives allowed for com­pletion of the first semester before Christmas and 
a mid-May dismissaL 
AlUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
Enter the Methodists 

It began with a hauidball gEime between a vice-presi­dent of Notre Dzune and a South Bend Methodist. The Protestant mentioned that his newly-formed church was without facilities to hold Sunday services until they could build their own church. Now, in the ecumenical spirit, the Methodist church is holding its Sunday services in the auditorium of the Notre Dame Engineering Building. Methodist pastor Rev. David C. Maish said he "was overwhelmed by the gracious offer and recognition given by Notre Dame." 
Newest Bend in the River 

Letters to the editors of local newspapers are often less than interesting, but a recent contribution in The South Bend Tribune proved arresting; it CEdled for a new name for the city of South Bend. "South Bend isn't a name. It's a geographical location," wrote the reader. "Although it has been a cosmopolitan city for a long time, (South Bend) clings to the idea of a village attached to Notre Dame University. . . . This is the city of Notre Dame on the south bend of the St. Joseph River, surrounded by a high wall of history. . . . After 150 years of existence, this beautiful city should be given a name. Please call it Notre Dame, the Paris of America." A good idea, but what would they call The South Bend Tribune? 
Fellowships and Challenges 

Grants totaling $82,500 have been awarded to Notre Dame by the Arthur J. Schmitt Foundation of Broad­view, HI. which wiU underwrite graduate engineering and science fellowships as well eis institute a series of "Challenges in Science" meetings for undergradu­ates. Seven first-year graduate fellowships will be awarded for each of the next three years with $75,000 of the total. Going to candidates for doctoral degrees, the awcirds will annually provide tuition expenses of $1,200 and a stipend of $2,000 for each recipient. 
Contemporaries Honor Rossini 

Continually recognized by his colleagues as an author­ity in the field of chemistry. Dr. Frederick D. Rossini, dean of the College of Science, has been honored by them once again. On March 11, Dr. Rossini received the William H. Nichols Medal, annually presented since 1902 by the New York Section of the American Chemical Society. The Society cited Dean Rossini for "outstanding contributions to the area of chemical thermodynamics through research, writing and orga­nization." Dean Rossini has been author OR co-author of eight books and more than 270 articles on thermo­chemistry. 
Pangbom Named Papal Count 

Thomas W. Pangbom IXD '54 of Hagerstown, Md. donor of Pangborn HaU on campus, has been named a Papal Count by Pope Paul VI. This rank of nobility originated in past ages when the Pope, possessing greater temporal powers, honored laymen for their roles in the temporal affairs of the Church. In addition to his gifts to Notre Dame, Count Pang­
bom is a member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees and past member of the Advisory Board of the College of Science and Engineering. He also is a member of the Advisory Committee of Mount St. Mary College and the Board of Trustees of Catholic University of America. His gifts have erected a Pangbom Hall at Mount St. Mary and the Pangborn School of Architecture at Catholic University. 
Eight More TotaM 22 
On March 3, eight Notre Dame seniors received word that they were selected as recipients of Woodrow Wilson National Fellowships. This brought the total of Notre Dame recipients to 122. Across the nation, 1,408 persons from 380 institutions received the awards. The Notre Dame winners and their fields of interest are: John F. Clarke of Jackson Heights, N.Y., English and American literature; David A. Hacker, Waterloo, Iowa, English; Malachi J. Kenney, Hazlet, N.J., history; Xavier K Maruyama, Tokyo, physics; Terrence E. Miller, Portland, Ore., philos­ophy; William W. O'Grady, Williams Bay, Wis., political theory; Joseph Starshak, Chicago, history; and Albert L. Vitter IH of New Orleans, mathematics. 
Tuition on the Rise 
As regularly as the sun, the annual tuition at Notre Dame for undergraduates has risen—$100 a year each of the past four years. And according to Uni­versity Comptroller G. E. Harwood, "This increase probably won't be the last." Approximately $500,000 of the $600,000 gEuned this year by the increase is earmarked for faculty salaries, but will do no more than keep those at a competitive level. Currently, Notre Dame undergraduates finance 80 percent of their education costs, while graduate students provide 60 percent. Attempts to increase the University's endowment fund, one of the smallest in the country for a university of this size, hopefully will bring an end to the tuition spiral. In comparison to Notre Dame's current rate of $l,600-a-year. Harvard and Cal Tech list $l,800-a-year tuitions, Johns Hopkins, $1,760, and Catholic University of America, $1,300. 
Ecumenical Peace Plea 
"To lift the issues of Vietnam above the levels of partisan politics and debate, and to ca31 upon God to guide world leaders away from war toward peace." This was the aim of the Day of Prayer for Peace at Notre Dame February 27 in which a rabbi, Protestant ministers and Catholic priests prayed together in Sacred Heart Church. Speaking at the concluding session. Rev. John A. O'Brien Sciid ". . . the tragedy of war lies in its utter inability to solve any question of ideology, justice or right. After all the destruction and carnage, the unsolved questions con­front us at the conference table." The day of prayer was sponsored by the Young Christian Students organization of Notre Dame and St, Mary's and by the South Bend Chapter of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. 
Treasure Island and Others 
For the past seven years, Walter Trohan, Washington correspondent for the Chicago Tribune and a '26 graduate of the University, has set aside in escrow a portion of his collection of first editions of English and American writers for the Notre Dame Memoried Libreiry. His recently-appraised 1965 contribution consisted of 77 volimies valued at more than $4,000. Among this most recent collection are: first editions of 20 of Robert Louis Stevenson's works, including Treasure Island and Kidnapped; first editions of the six-volume set of Winston Churchill's The Second World War, autographed by the author; and 10 vol­umes of poems by Carl Sandburg. Elarlier contribu­tions include first editions of such authors as Charles Dickens, Joseph Conrad, Conan Doyle, Sinclair Lewis and Herman Melville. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1W« APRIL 


what is 

Beginning April 18 and continuing for almost a month, Notre Dame Clubs around the world will observe the 43rd annual Universal Notre Dame Night. 
From Maine to Texas, from Tokyo to Rome, more than 100 Clubs will hold local celebrations keynoted by this year's universal theme, "The Role of the Catholic University in the Modem Age." Many of these same Clubs will feature campus per­sonalities as guest speakers. An ad­ditional highlight will be the tradi­tional presentation of "Man of the Year" awards to outstanding local community leaders. 
Established in 1925 by the late John H. Neeson '03 of Philadelphia, Universal Notre Dame Night was originally conceived as a single oc­casion on which all alumni Clubs — then totaling 26 — would convene simultaneously to tell their constitu­encies, their communities and the world that Notre Dame was a great University in many aspects other than athletics. 
Their hope was that the various local units might be united through media, such as radio, through which the University administration could convey to all the current story of Notre Dame. In a number of subse­quent years, this hope developed and several national radio programs were broadcast, some from the cam­pus and others from key cities. 
But it became increasingly evi­dent, as the Clubs grew in numbers and size, that the real contribution of Universal Notre Dame Night was in the local Club program, featuring, wherever possible, a speaker from the University, a campus film or some personality who embodied the leadership and spirit of Notre Dame. 
From this came the change from a single date — the Monday follow­ing Easter Monday — to dates ad­jacent to this central date, a change that has enabled the University president, other members of the ad­ministration, and faculty and coach­ing staff members to appear at more than one Club's meeting. 
As the Clubs have grown, the pub­lic relations values, the prestige of the University and the alumni lead­ership in religious and civic life have 

 the 
been increasingly reflected in out­standing Club programs around the 
U.S. and around the world. Many of the local programs in recent years have matched some of the programs of earlier years in the national sig­nificance of their speakers. 
The growth of the University as" an educational asset of world signifi­cance — the developments in sci­ence, in literature, in business and industry leadership, in spiritual training and in the lay apostolate 
— has given tiie Clubs an annually renewed stimulus to transmit these vital developments to their mem­bers, to their friends, to the families of present students and to an in­creasingly aware public. Local radio and television coverage frequently has augmented the local meetings. 
This is the broad background upon which rests Universal Notre Dame Night in 1966. More than 100 local Alumni Clubs, of the 150 listed, will have strong individual programs of community importance. The cumula­tive value will add substantially to the stature of Notre Dame. 

measure of moral responsibHtty. But this definition suffers in its simplicity, for a multitude of other in­
role of the Catholic 
stitutions graduate professionally competent people, many of whom also possess a measure of moral?noderti age? responsibilHy. 

University m the 
' What service or function does a Catholic university perform that cannot be duplicated or bettered by other, more sophisticated centers of /earning?  
*y^ Wfiaf confrifaufion can a religiously oriented insfifu­ fion mafce to an age in which science and technol­ogy have become their own creeds?  
'/  The purpose of a Catholic university has been described as the education of men and women of professional competence, who also possess a strong  

What the Catholic university can and must do, how­ever, is to offer adequacy of fcnowfedge and truth in all its fullness, human and divine: It must provide a constant commingling of ancient disciplines and new knowledge, of tradition and revelation, of theology and technology, all the while granting perspective to man's place in the divine scheme of things. This is a process far beyond the realm of ffie secular in­stitution which is chartered to transmit knowledge, but avoids reference to its source. 
ALABAMA DENVER MANSFIELD Dr. Lawrence Baldinger April 13 Dr. Thomas Stewart April 18 Rev. Paul Wendel CSC April 20 AKRON DES MOINES MEMPHIS James E. Armstrong April 26 Francis Bradley April 30 Coach George Sefcik May 10 
ALBANY, N.Y. DETROIT MID-HUDSON VALLEY (witti Schenectady) Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC April 13 Dean William Burke April 21 April 18 MILWAUKEE ATLANTA WASHINGTON, D.C. Dinner Dance April 30 Coach George Sefcik May 12 Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC MISSISSIPPI . .;•• BALTIMORE April 20 Coach George Sefcik May 11 (tent.) Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC April 12 EASTERN ILLINOIS MOHAWK VALLEY BERKSHIRE CTY, MASS. April 18 Dean William Burke April 20 Dean William Burke April 23 ERIE MONTANA BOSTON James V. Gibbons April 11 Dr. Edward Cronin April 14 Edward W. Krause April 19 FAIRFIELD COUNTY MUSKEGON BUFFALO Local Speaker John H. Janowski April 26 Dean William Burke April 16 FLINT NASHVILLE CALUMET DISTRICT Local Speaker April 23 Rev. John E. Walsh CSC April 11 FORT LAUDERDALE NEW JERSEY CANTON (International Convention) Coach John Ray April 14 James E. Armstrong April 27 West End, Grand Bahamas NEW MEXICO CENTRAL FLORIDA Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC April 30 Dr. Thomas Stewart April 19 Coach John Dee April 13 FORT WAYNE NEW ORLEANS CENTRAL NEW YORK Rev. John E. Walsh CSC April 12 Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC April 14 Dean William Burke April 19 GREATER MIAMI NEW YORK CITY CHICAGO (International Convention) Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC May 2 West End, Grand Bahamas May 4 CINCINNATI Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC April 30 NORTH CAROLINA Coach Ara Parseghian April 12 GREEN BAY Dr. Lawrence Baldinger April 18 CLEVELAND John H. Janowski April 25 NORTH FLORIDA Dinner Dance April 30-HARRISBURG Coach John Dee April 14 COLORADO SPRINGS James E. Armstrong April 21 NORTHERN CALIFORNIA (with Denver) HOUSTON Dr. Thomas Stewart April 23 
Dr. Thomas Stewart April 18 Dean Thomas Bergin April 20 NORTHWESTERN OHIO COLUMBUS INDIANAPOLIS James E. Armstrong April 28 Rev. John E. Walsh CSC April 14 Rev. John E. Walsh CSC April 13 OHIO VALLEY CONNECTICUT VALLEY JERSEY SHORE Rev. Paul G. Wendel CSC April 18 Edward W. Krause April 22 Edward W. Krause April 25 OKLAHOMA CITY DALLAS KANSAS CITY Coach Tom Pagna April 14 Coach Tom Pagna April 12 Coach Ara Parseghian April 11 OMAHA AND COUNCIL BLUFFS DAYTON KENTUCKY Francis Bradley April 28 James D. Cooney May 1 Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC April 13 ORANGE COUNTY DEARBORN LA CROSSE Dr. Thomas Stewart April (with Detroit) Rev. F. C. O'Connell April 21 OREGON Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC LANSING James W. Frick April 19 . DECATUR Dean Thomas Bergin April 14 PALM BEACH COUNTY Coach Joseph Yonto April 14 LEHIGH VALLEY (International Convention) DELAWARE Robert Williams '51 April 16 West End, Grand Bahamas James E. Armstrong April 19 LOS ANGELES Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC April 30 Dr. George N. Shusfer April 19 
PEORIA Coach John Ray May ] 7 PHILADELPHIA 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC May 3 
PHOENIX Bro. Rophael Wilson CSC April 17 PIONEER VALLEY (with Berkshire County) Dean William Burke April 23 PITTSBURGH Rev. Edmund P, Joyce CSC April 11 
R. I. & SOUTHEASTERN MASS. Edward W. Krause April 20 ROCHESTER Dean William Burke April 18 ROCKFORD Dr. Francis McGuire April 19 ST. JOSEPH VALLEY Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC April 28 ST. LOUIS Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC April 26 ST. PETERSBURG-TAMPA Coach John Dee April 12 SAN ANTONIO Coach Tom Pagna April 13 SAN DIEGO Dr. Thomas Stewart April SAN FERNANDO VALLEY (with Los Angeles) Dr. George N. Shuster April 19 SAN GABRIEL VALLEY (with Los Angeles) Dr. George N. Shuster April 19 SCHENECTADY Dean William Burke April 21 SCRANTON James V. Gibbons April 12 SPOKANE James W. Frick April 21 TOLEDO Rev. John E. Walsh CSC April TRI-CITIES Dr. Francis McGuire April 17 TRIPLE CITIES Bro. Raphael Wilson CSC April 14 TRI-STATE Dr. Lawrence Baldinger April 12 TUCSON Dean Thomas Bergin April 21 TWIN CITIES Dr. Francis McGuire April 21 
UTAH Dr. Edward Cronin April 13 

VIRGINIA 
James E. Armstrong April 18 WEST-CENTRAL CALIFORNIA (with Northern California) Dr. Thomas Stewart April 23 WESTERN WASHINGTON James W. Frick April 20 WEST VIRGINIA Dr. Lawrence Baldinger April 20 WICHITA Dr. Edward Cronin April 12 WILKES-BARRE (with Scranton) James V. Gibbons April 12 YOUNGSTOWN James E. Armstrong April 25 

M 
Notre Dame's Alumni now have their first op­portunity to participate in the University's Center for Continuing Education when a national ND Alumni symposium of "The Problem of Population is held on campus, June 9 and 10. 
Fresh from its dedication and inaugural sym­posium, the Center will throw open its dcors to the "University's Alumni, committing its entire stafE and facilities to making this first annual seminar mean­ingful for all Alumni. 
The seminar will address various levels of the population prob­lem, each of which, though related to 



"Population" 

the others, has its own specific concerns. The first of these is: "The Morality of the Means of Responsible Parenthood"-Chainnan: Dr. T. P. Bergin-Papers: Dr. G. N. Shuster and Dr. F. J. Crosson. The second: "Population Policy in a Pluralistic Society"-C/iairroan: Mr. J. E. Arm­strong-Papers; Rev. T. B. McDonough and Dr. J. Kane. The third is: "The University's Role in the Population Studies—^Notre Dame's Involvemenf-C/iaiiTnan: Rev. 
A. L. Schlitzer CSC-Papers: Dr. Wm. Liu and Sr. Jean Vianney CSC. And the fourth is: "The Dimension of the Population Problem — Panel Discussion"-CTi«ir­man: Dr. T. P. Camey-PajieZists: Dr.Wm. V. D'Antonio and Rev. J. A. O'Brien. 
Alumni are urged to make further inquiry regard­ing reservations and pre-conference preparation by mailing the enclosed card to the University. 

Topic Launclies First Alumni Seminar-
There is comp/ete agreement that a population problem 
exists and that it is a gravely challenging one. 
This can be shovvn on the basis of projections which all 
demographers accept. First, the population of the earth 
reached one billion in 1830, two billion in 1920, three 
billion in 1962, and will make a momentous leap to si.^c 
billion in the year 2000. It is obvious that a continuation 
of this rate of increase is wholly out of the question. 
We may add that the birth rale would be still higher were it not for widespread recourse to measures, notably in/anticido and abortion, which are rightly viewed by 
Catholic and other moralists as criminal. Infanticide is far less common in Western countries than it once was—in times chronicled by Goethe's Faust and Scott's Heart of Midlothian. Abortion is, however, now widely practiced not only in Japan, where it has become an accepted method of birth control, but even in the so-called Catholic countries of Europe and Latin America. Reliable evidence likewise indicates that in spite of legal prohibition it is now more frequently resorted to in the United Slates than is gen­erally assumed. 
Since Catholics now live in a world-wide diaspora, their demographers and moral theologians have a two-fold task. The first is to make it possible for the faithful to confront the inescapable task of regulating birth with means which are sanctioned by the Church. These means now include rhythm and abstinence from se.xual intercourse. Since the second is of necessity limited to a very few, it is the first which, for the time being at least, must be advocated not as only a safeguard against sin, but as a positive contribu­tion to the solution of the population problem. This means a drastic change in basic attitudes, of course, but it also implies a vigorous endeavor to study rhythm scientifically and vastly to increase its use. Unfortunately, research has lagged far behind, and efforts to disseminate an under­standing of the method through a world-ivide network of rhythm clinics have scarcely begun. The second task of 
the Catholic demographer and moral theologian is to op­pose, as successfully as he can, the use of methods which, like infanticide and induced abortion, give an added dimen­sion to the moral issues involved. 
The population problem is, of course, most serious in countries like Egypt, India. Brazil, and some of the Carib­bean countries, where mounting overpopulation is asso­ciated with dire poverty. But the United States itself is not without difficulties of its own. The population of this coun­try is certain to increase from the 192 million of the present to 320 million by the year 2000. This probably means that the larger cities will nearly double in size 50 years hence. Even if we assume that automation will not have more effect on employment than is at present predictable, and that through education youth can be kept out of the labor force in a manner comparable to that presently in effect, the depressed urban areas of the year 2000 may be at least twice as large as they are now. 
There can be no doubt, then, that the United States also faces its population problem. But in general, one may cer­tainly say that a deeper concern is with sexuality in the urban society ive have created. 
The desire for sexual experience is fanned by forms of mass art and entertainment. Venereal disease is now largely remediable and so no longer imposes a formidable barrier to indulgence. New and improved forms of contraception, notably the "pill," are widely used, even though the ulti­mate medical effects are still unknown. In large segments of the population, sexuality is also bound up with the use of narcotics. 
It might, as a consequence, be relatively easy to reverse the trend. By overemphasizing the population problem, one could conceivably re-create the situation which existed not too long ago ivhen the issue was one of declining birth rales. No Catholic demographer or moralist is unaware that in a situation which is uniquely human—that is, sub­ject not to automatic regulation but only to the decisions made either individually or corporately by men and women living amidst the pressures of the time—mass suggestion is a factor of the utmost importance. 
SEMINAR CHAIRMEN: Shuster, Bergin and Crosson 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

I
N FEBRUARY, 42 Alumni returned to the campus for the first meeting of the University's newly-reorganized Annual Alumni Fund. 
Selected by their class ofiicers and appointed to the new position by University President Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh CSC, these "class agents" have become a part of Notre Dame's movement to seek increased personal contact with alumni. By reporting University development to their classmates and seel^­ing support for the Annual Alumni Fund, they will become the needed link, heretofore absent in the 24­year history of this alumni fund-raising program. Begun in 1930: James E. Armstrong, e-xecutive sec­retarj' of the 35,000-plus member Alumni Association, launched the day-long conference at the ilorris Inn by tracing Alumni support fi-om its beginning in 1908 through the present. Tlie first Alumni contributions, Armstrong staled, were in the form of S5 annual dues to the Association. After 15 years, this fund reached 8120,000 and was given to the University endowment campaign in 1923. In 1930, Frank Hayes, as president of the Alumni Association, introduced the Annual Alumni Fund, and invited annual contribu­tions from Alumni according to ability and desire, without a fixed amount for dues. 
A combination of the depression and a nationwide campaign for the Rockne Memorial building after Rock's death in 1931 weakened the Alumni Fund program. But, in 1941, the Association, under Presi­dent Thomas Byrne and his successor, Harry Kelly, reorganized the Annual Alumni Fund into its present form. So successful, the Fund was extended through a second year, i-aising Slll.OOO for the University. The 23rd Annual Alumni Fund (1965) saw 11,799 Notre Dame men contribute over S1.4 million. Role of Capital Fund Drive: Next, James \V. Frick. vice-president for public relations and development, out­lined Notre Dame's current and future financial picture for the class agents. The yearly operating budget has reached S2S.2 million. Frick staled, and will continue to move up­cally and generously to both the Challenge programs. With the added incentive of the Ford Foundation's matching provisions, SO percent of the Alumni participated during the three years of Challenge I, gaining for the University the American Alumni Council's top award for improvement in alumni giving. 
Ever Greater Need Today: Despite the unprecedented Alumni participation in past capital fund campaigns, the average Alumni giving in any single year has not exceeded 50%. With Notre Dame's endowment—the smallest of any major private university—the Annual 
LU 
o 
>­
LU 
>­< 
LU 
< 
CO 
en < 
O 
ward. Funds raised from the University's two capi­tal fund drives—Challenge 


Restructure Annual 
I and Challenge n—have been used in faculty develop­Alumni Fund is of 

Alumni Fund 
 critical importance to provide 

ment, student aid and new academic programs, in ad­income in addition to endowment investment return. dition to the construction of the ilemorial Library, In 1965 the University would have ne'eded an addi­Lewis Hall, Center for Continuing Education, Com­tional $32 million in its endowment, returning 4.5 
puting Center, Stepan Center and the Athletic and percent, to receive the Convocation Center now in progress. Alumni. Notre Dame Alumni have responded enthusiasti­With 45 percent of 
1910 1911 1912 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 
Stephen H. Herr Col. R. Otto Probst Riciiard J. Monroe 
W. Poyntelle Downing Albert A. Kuhle 
C. Patrick Moloney Frederick L. Mahoffey John A. Lemmer Louis J. Finske John T. Bolfe Raymond J. Schubmehl Frank B. Bloemer Jr. Joseph J. Casasanta Sr. Edv/ord G. Cantwell Henry C. Wurzer 
Malcolm F. Knaus William J. Corbett Jr. 
J. Patrick Canny Karl E. Martersteck 1930 1931 1932 1 933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 
 John J. Elder  John F. Saunders  Prof. Francis J. O'Malley  Lucien S. Kempf  Patrick J. Carroll  Paul A. Fergus  Francis L. Layden  Robert M. Siegfried  Leonard H. Skoglund Jr.  James N. Motschall  Walter L Fleming Jr.  William E. Cotter Jr.  William E. Scanlan  Oliver H. Hunter  John W. Anhut  Joseph M. Hoggar Jr. 
 H. B. Surkamp  Joseph M. Byrne III 
1948 1949 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 1957 1958 1959 1960 1961 1962 1963 1964 1965 1966 
 S1.4 million contributed by 
 the Alumni contributing in 
 James L. Ferstel  Peter J. Kernon Jr.  Gus Cifelli  Martin R. O'Connor  William V. Cuddy  Joseph L Pogliori  Thomas J. Nessinger  George H. Shelton  John F. Fonnon  James A. Morse  Alfred J. Weinsheimer Jr.  Frank R. Reynolds Jr. 
 D. Jerry McGlynn  Patrick J. Hart Jr.  John C. Deorie  Kevin G. Hart  David W. Ellis 
 John J. Gearen  Barry T. McNomaro 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

1965 the potential for improvement is great. With an annual gift from all Alumni, the class agents were told, Notre Dame could easily double its Annual Alumni Fund. 
The class agents will be working hard to increase the percentage of class giving and the total amount of the Fund. Knowing their classmates' loyalty to Notre Dame, each agent has willingly and enthu­siastically accepted his position. They will be counting on all Notre Dame men to aid them in their sen'ice to 
the University. 
THE FULL DIMENSION of the newly-organized Class Agent Program for the Annual Alumni Fund is repre­sented in this group of program ad­ministrators and agents. Delegate of the oldest class in the program is Stephen H. Herr '10, second from right, while handling matters of the most recent group is Barry T. Mc­Namara '66. On the left are Alumni Association Secretary James E. Arm­strong '25, and Annual Alumni Fund Director Dennis F. Troester '57. 

ENGAGEMENTS 

.Mi>» I'airida Ruth CTIIIMCU and RICII.ARD T. M.\RTI.V '34. MUs Aiulr.v Yvimiu- ll,iii|. ami RICHARD OWEIL ALLISO.V '56. .ML>5 S.iiidr.i DcuoEli.a Shaw ami DANIEI-JOSEl'It McMAIlO.V JR. jll. MUs .Vaiicv .Marie Mcliiivr.- ami JAY JA.MKS RYAN '58. Mi« .Man- Ann Sullivan and JOII.V B. CASIIIOX '3'J. .Miss Anne .Marie Sliielilir anil DANIEL J. CROSSEX JR. '39. .Misi -Marilyn Jean l!emli« and TERRY X. 
LAUGHLl.V -GO. .Miss Jo Ann Beniniaii and ROBERT KOCH CI. .Miss Karen .Man- .Mortimer and DAVID H. 
WILLIAMS '61. .Miss Barbara Jane Gillien and TIIO.MAS JOSErll HULL '02. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 19(56 APRIL 
.Miss Barbara I. .Morev and WILLIAM II. 
Tiio.MPsox •(.:;. Miss Kalhrvn Delia .Maria .ind I.TJO SIEVEN WEIDNER -IVl. .Miss Dianne Claire Morris anil OARY L. CON­WAY Ti3. .Mi-s Sharon Ann Monlder ami JOHN LAW­RENCE FINNERAN T.:!. .Miss .Maria Ann Ro/osv and FRED .MICHAEL .MOREI.LI JR. C:). .Miss Lvnne Graee Grilhn and WILLIAM HENRY SCHRODER HI « . .Miss Helen Marie D.ivis and LT. I'lHI.lI' W. SKWIOT T)3. .Miss IViulerie .Marie O.illirie a„d LiJO DAVID I'HILLII' TIIO.MAS 53. .Miss .Mars- K. Slokes and RANDOLPH .N. VUKSANOVIC fi3. .Miss .Marilvn Wa«ak and JA.MES J. ZMIO­ROCKI 63. .Miss Nanev- Therese Keiri'.-an and CHARLES 1'. JARASEK '64. .Miss Constance Jate/ak and DAVID I'. .MeKEE •G4. .Miss Ciilierine Ann Dorn and DAVID 1'. RIVOIR.\ M. .Miss Lois Grivuietiski and I'.Vl RICK J. SHEL­LEY JR. 'frt. .Miss Karen Jam- Ross and ROBERT L. TANZOLA JR. « . .Miss Limla Lee Jeravkoivski and FRANK DIEHO VISCEGLIA 'W. .Miss Marijaret linckiev and FALL BRALNS­DORK 'G3. Miss .Mar^- Anne Dinrolo and WILLIA.M .M. BRIDENSTINE 'Gj. .Miss Kathleen .Mare Donovan and Ens. I'lIILIF ALI'HONSE DUR '63. .Miss Susan Elizabeth Iliird and JAMES ED­WARD DUT.MERS JR. Gj. Miss Man- Theresa Hall and BENJA.MIN POSFELL FISHBURXE II 63. Miss .Marjorie Joan Durhan and WILLIAM RLSSELL GRACE 63. 








Classes 
Miss Kathleen \fcCnnnack and RICILARD LEO HOLTHAUS '63. Miss Eileen Marie Devine and JOII.N" GREGORY 
IIUARTE 'G3. .Miss Joyce Siiiuins and BRIAN ROGERS '63. .MLss Jaeiiuelvne Essing and RICHARD L. 
ARRINGFON "CG. 
MARRIAGES 

Miss Rosernarv L. Bcrsfcld and ROBERT X. .MILLER •54, St. Louis. .Mo.. .Nov. 23. .Miss Bettv Sue Groom and LOUIS FR.-\XK AMESTOY JR. 33. Pas.idena. Calif.. Feb. 12. .Miss Kathleen .M. Bailey and JAMES W. .MURPHY '3G, Wevmraith, Mass.. Julv 17. .Miss Cjrol Ann Attderson and TflOM.AS LEE JUDGE '37. Helena. .\I,)nl.. Jan. 29. .Miss Annalee Ro.si and SAMUEL F. KA.MBOL '57. Notre Dame. Dec, 27. .MLss Eilie Senn McLean and PHILIP HARTSOX GREELEY CI, Xe«- York. Feb. 5. 
.Mi-s Rita Ann .McGratty and LT. EDW.-\RD DANIEL .McCARROX JR. 61. Qiiantico, Va., Dec. II. 
Miss Nancv .\mi Brodbeck and ROBERT A.VFHONY FR.\TES '62. Flint. Mich., Dec. 18. .Miss Xeliila .X. .Mietta and ER.XEST L. FON­TA.VA MA 'G3. Xotre Dame, Feb. 3. .Miss Svlvia .Martin and MICHAEL JAMES KEALV '64. Piedtnont. CiliL, Sept. 18. .Miss Kathleen Lee O'Brien and Ens. .MICHAEL W.\YXE .MULLANE 'C4. Notre Dame, Feb. 3. 
.Miss .Man- Judith Straka and TIIO.MAS JOSEPH FERGUSO.X '63, Notre Dame, Feb. 12. .Miss .Man- Virginia Reese and JOSEPH .-\N­TIIONY' FR.-\.NCO "63. Mishao^ka, Ind., Feb. 5. .Miss Maureen A. Conley and GER.-\RD J. 
LEYDEX JR. '63, .Mishass-aka. Ind., Dec. 27. 
.Miss Carol Ann Winzeler and LOREX TAVERNIER KRIEXKE '66, Ft. Wayne. Ind., Jan. 3. 
BIRTHS 

.Mr. and Mrs. IlEXRY S. ROMAXO LLB '48, .'t daiishler, Patricia Sam, Dec. 30. 
Air. and Mre. THOMAS J. GARGA.V '49, a daughter. Sheila Kathcrine, Jan. 19. Mr. and Mre. PATRlqK J. MOXTROY '33, a daL-ghter, Sheila Marie, Sept. 25. Mr. and Mrs. DO.N'ALD K. ROSS '53, a 
daughter, Kathcrine Ann, Marc!i 5. Mr. and Mts. EDWARD J. SWEENEY '54, a daughter, .\nn Marie, Dec. 28. Mr. and Mis. JAMES HESBURGH '55, a daughter, Dec. 15. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD J. ARMSTRONG '56, a son, James Elliot. Dec. 22. Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY F. MURPHY '56, a son, John Francis, Feb. 14. Dr. and Mrs. JAMES KE.V.\EDY '57, a flaughtcr, Elizabeth Selon. Jan. 19. Mr. and Mis. KEXXETH J. HEIXEiUXX '58, a son, Kevin Patrick, Dec. 15. Mr. and Mrs. HARRY D. LEIXEXWEBER '59, a son, Thomas More, Jan. 12. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT E. PIESL^VK '59, a daughter, Karen Anne, Jan. 28. Mr. and Mis. J. TERRY PLUXKETT '59, a son, Daniel Joseph, Dec. 22. Mr. and Mrs. FR.\XZ P. SCHEUERXUX.X '59, a sotij EHc Franz, Xov- 25. Mr. and Mrs. JOHX P. TIIURIX '59, a son, Quinn Thomas, March 15. Lt. and Mrs. ROBERT J. KEX.XY '62. a son, Jan. 29. Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE SEFCIK •62. a son, Jon David, March 7. Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE K. TESKE 62. a son, Christopher MidiacI, Jan. 4. Xfr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS K. ARMSTROXG '63, a son, David Carter, Feb. 26. Mr. and Mrs. WILLI.\M B.«'ER III '63, a son, Christopher James, Xov. 18. 
SYMPATHY 
JAMES T. GALLAGHER '29. on the death of h'lS w-ife, Feb. 12. -MICHAEI. J. BISHKO '30, on the death of his father, Nov. 10. JOH.V J._ CASSIDY '30, on the death of his wife, Feb. 15 and the death of his mother, Xov. 8. EDWARD A. COOMES '31, on the death of his mother, Jan, 2. JOHN F. SAUXDERS JR. '31, on the death of his mother, Feb. 22. RAYMO.VD J. BRAXCHEAU '33, on the death of his son, Nov. 20. ROBERT F. SIMMOXS '35, on the death of his mother, Jan. 24. ROBERT H. HACK.MAX '38, on the death of his wife in February'. EDMOXD R. H.AGGAR '38, on the death of his son, Feb. 5. JOSEPH F. HART '40, on the death of his parents recently (difTerent dates). RICHARD J. STEFFAXMK '40. on the death of his wife, Feb. 12. JOHX F. D. O'BRIEX '41, on the death of his wife in December. ALBERT J. MICHELS JR. '44, on the death of his father, Dec. 11. JOH.V T. \VHrrELY '44, on the death of his mother, Feb. 7. FRANCIS L. FOSS '46, on the death of his father, Feb. 4. JOHX B. KELLY '48, on the death of his wife. Jan. 29. ROBERT J. L..\LLY '50, on the death of his father, Afarch 4. JOSEPH F. DcVLIEGHER '51, on the death of his mother. Dec. 24. 
DAVID JR. '58 and EUGEXE .M. S.\XOX '59, on the death of their father David W. '29, Dec 3L 
JOHX W. CARPE.\TER '60, on the death of his father, Jan. 31. EDWARD H. PFEIFFER '62. on the death of his father Edward H. '22, Feb. 21. PAUL A. BASBAGILL '64, on the death of his father. SnCHAEL J. KE.\LY '64, on the death of his mother in October. JOSEPH J. SPERBER HI '64, on the death of 

his tather, Dec. IS. 
ROBERT J. MILLER '65, on the death of his father Sebasuan J. '23, Feb. 18. 
DEATHS 

ALFRED J. DUPERIER LLB *00, of Beaumont, Texas, suffered a stroke on Asli AVedncsday and died on Holy Saturday—April 17, 1965. Sumvors include a daughter. 
FRANK A. MCCARTHY LLB '06 of Elgin, III. died Oct. 11 according to word received from his 
\nh. 
LEO F. LYNCH SR. '10 of Kansas City, Mo. 

died Jan. 17 after a long illness. .An employee of the Internal Revenue Ser\icc from 1922 to 1959, he examined tax returns in that district and for seven years was the only member of the review staff. Until 1965 he was active in the pri\*atc practice of tax work. Sur\-ivors include hts wife, a son and two daughters. 
HERMAN C. R. PIPER '11 of StilUotcr, ifinn. 

DR. FR.\NK J. BRESLIN '13 of Los Angeles died March 1. St. Vincent's Hospital Staff president from 1939 to 1943, chief of surgcr>- from 1944 to 1953, and past president of the Los Angeles Surgical Society. He is survived by his widow, two sons and three daughters. 
ROBERT B. GOTFREDSON '17 of Crosse Pointe Park, founder and president of the Trans-American Freight Lines, died in February. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. 
RAYMOND J. GRAHAM '17 of Oak Park, III. died Feb. 2 after suffering a heart attack in his office in Chicago, Owner of a structural engineering firm in the Chicago area for over 33 years and a member of the ND Club of Chicago, he is sur\-ivcd by his \ridow and two daughters. 
EDWARD H. PFEIFFER '22 of Louisville, former Kcnlucfc>- stale tennis cliamplon and captain of the ND tennis team, died Feb. 21. A partner in Pfciffcr & Pfeiffer insurance agcncv-, he is survived by his wife, a son, Edward H. *62, and three daughters. 
JOSEPH P. HE.VNEBERRY '23 ot Chicago, 
III. died Jan. 25. He retired last year as a sales­man for Cudner and O'Connor Paint Mfg. Co. He is survived by his widow, a son and a daughter. SR. iLVRY FRANCIS PBV.M MA '24 of Pres­
entation Sisters Children's Home, Sioux Falls, S.D. STEPHEN C. CORBOY LLB '23 of Poinpano Bcacli, Fla. and formerly Flossmoor, III. died Jan. 
2. Retired president of Ivano, Inc., subsidiary of Simonizc Co., he is survived by his wife, a son and two daughters. 
JOSEPH M. HAGERTY .ME '23 of Bessemer, Ala. died Feb. 5. Owner and operator of Hagerty Walgreen Drugs he is survived by his widow. 
SEBASTIAN J. MILLER '25 of Indianapolb died Feb. 20. An engineer with the Indiana Gas and Water Co., he is survived by his widow' and, a son, Robert J. '65. 
VLVCENT J. "PINKY" SCH.NEIDER LLB '25 of Flushing, N.Y. died Jan. II. He is survived bv his wife. 
R.\YMOND W. DURST PhBC '26 of Tucson, Ariz, and formerly River Forest, 111., died Jan. 22. Retired president of HalHcrafters Co. and a member of the Lay Advisory Council of ND, he is survived bv his widow. 
R.\YMOND J. GAFFNEY '26 of Rockford, III., secretary-treasurer of Rockford Bolt and Steel Co. for 35 years, died Feb. 20. Survivors include his widow, two sons and two daughters. 
SR. ^L ANTHONY MALONE OSU MA '27 of Ursuline Convent, Toledo, Ohio. 
SAMUEL P. PRIVITERA LLB '27 of Silver Creek, N.Y., died Dec. 28. An attorney in Buffalo and Silver Creek, He is survived bv liis widow. 
HENRY P. DAVIS '28 of St. .Mark's W. Va. died Dec 30. He is survived by his vddow and a daughter. 
CHARLES J. McGUCKIN '28 of .-Vkron, Ohio died Dec 6. A retired o»*7ier oi MoncricS Steel Products Co. and a former secretary of the Akron ND Club, he is survived by his widow, a son and a daughter. 
JOSEPH E. MORRISSEY '28 of Coos Bay, Ore. died Jan. 30. He is survived by his widow, one son, and two daughters. 
EDWARD F. THO^L^N '28 of X. Hollv-wood, Calif, and fonncrly of South Bend died Jan. 7. He is survived by his widow*, two sons and three daughters. 
PETER A. BEE JR. '29 of Statcn Island, N.Y. died Jan. 31 after a long illness. A fonner dean of students and chairman of the math dept. of the New York Community College in Brooklyn. He is survived bv his sister. 
MARTIN G. FOLEY '29 of White Plains, N.Y., a materials control supervisor in the overseas operation of the GM Corp., died Feb. 19. He is survived bv his \rife, a son and two daughters. 
JOHN R. HOOVER '29 of Forest Park, III. died Sept. 9 of a heart attack. He is survived by his widow. 
WALTER J. McMORROW '29 of Ba>-side N.Y. died May 26, 1965 according to word recently received from his widow. 
SR. M. REGIXA MILLER HH.M AB '29 of Villa Maria Convent, Lawrence County, Pa-
STEPHEX M. MURRAY MA '29 of New Haven, Conn, is deceased. He had been with the Boys Life Bureau of the Knights of Columbus. 
DAVID W. SAXON '29 of Memphis, Tenn. died Dec. 31. A director of publicity and an account executive vrith Early Maxwell Associates, and a former ncwspapemian, he h survived by his widow and two sons, David Jr. '58 and Eugene .\L '59. 
JOSEPH A. SVETE '29 of Lorain, Ohio died Jan. 9. Survivors include his widow. 
FRA.\CrS J. ROONEY '30 of Rome, N.V. died Oct. 13. He taught math in Bridgeport, Conn, schools before joining GE as a chemist. In 1939 he joined Rome Cable Corp. Survivors in­clude his widow and five daughters. 
ROBERT L. BAER '31 of LaGrange, III. died Jan. 21. He is survived by his widow, a son and a daughter. 
JOSEPH P. MCDONALD '32 of Inkerman, Pa. died Aug. 6 of a heart attack. An employee of the Penns>ivania Power and Light Co. for the past 28 years, he is survived by his widow, a son and a daughter. 
CHARLES I. PALT '32 of West Bend, Wis. died Jan. 25. Captain of the 1932 ND baseball team, he is survived by his widow. 
CYRIL C. THEISEN '32 of St. Joseph, Mich., vice-president of Theiscn-Clemens Co., oil and gas distributors, and president of Thelsen Tire and Truck Supply Co., died Feb. 22, Survivors include two sons and a daughter. 
VINCENT W. MAUREX '34 of Minncaiwlis, Minn, died Dec. 11. 
JOSEPH M. HUGHES '37 of Indianapolis, Ind. died Dec. 22. An employee of Indiana Bell Tele­phone Co. since graduation, he was their general accounting manager at the time of his death. He is survived by his widow, two sons and four daughters. 
ED.MU.XD S. KOWALSKI '38 of South Bend died Jan. 23. .\ ticket clerk for the Xew York Central RR S>stcm, he is survived by three brothers and three sisters. 
H.\RRY J. DETZER JR, '39 of Maumee, Ohio died Nov. 24. Survivors include his widow. 
THO.MAS B. O'BRIEN '40 of Glcnshaw, Pa. died Dec. 13. He was an attorney. Survivors in­clude his widow, two sons and a daughter. 
WALTER F. BRODBECK '41 of Lancaster, Calif, and formerly South Bend died Dec 19. At the time of his death he v\*as a field auditor for the Audit Bureau of Circulation, Chicago. He is survived by his parents, two brothers and two sisters. 
JOH.X GARRETT HICKEY '43 of Chicago, III., died June 16. Survivors include his widow. 
FLEET ADM. CHESTER W. XIMITZ LLB '44 died Feb. 20 at his naval base home in San Francisco. 
AUGUSTINE B. "GUS" KELLY JR. '47 of Morrisiown, N.J. died Sept. 10. He is survived by his widow and six children. 
REV. KIERAX CONLEY STD '48 of St. Meinrad SiJiool of Theolog>% St. Mcinrad, Ind., died Jan. 17. He was a member of the faculty since 1938. He is survived by his parents, one brother and two sisters. 
SR. .\LVRY JOH.X HOCKWALT SND MA '48 of Chardon, Ohio died Dtc. 21. 
ROBERT J. L.\UER '48, of Oricans, Ontario, Canada died Dec. 9 in Ottawa of a coronary trombosis. Survivors include his parents. 
BERTRAXD G. .MOSENTHIXE '49 of Penh Amboy, N.J. died July 4. Survivors include his widow. 
DOUGLAS GILES WAYBRIGHT '30 of Saugus, Mass. died Nov. 2. 
SR. FRANCIS JERO.ME FLETCHER MA '56 of St. Marv'-of-the-Woods, Ind. died Jan. 3. She is survived by her mother and a brother. 
SR. ^L\RIE GILES KIRBY MA '63, College of St. Teresa, Winona, Minn., died in February, 1965. 


FACULTY AND STAFF DEATHS 
GER.\LD E. COSGROVE, a member of the journalism de­partment faculty from 1924 to 1954, died Feb. 10 at the age of 71. He joined the staff of The 
South Bend Tribune in 1927 and 
for 34 years was its associate editor and director of the edi­

_ lorial page. After lie retired from the 'i'nbune in 1961 he conducted a program of editorial comment on WNDU-TV. Survivors in­clude his widow, two sons and a daughter. 
LEO V. AUTH JR PhD, as­sociate professor of electrical engineering at Notre Dame, died Feb. 26 at the age of 34. A member of the facult>' since 1962, he was a specialist in non­linear circuit theory. Survivors include his widov%-, a son, and three daughters. 
ALUWNUS MARCH }966 APRIL 


50-YEAR CLUB 
WALTER L. CLEMENTS Tower BIdg., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
CLASS OF I9I5 
That our good friend D. M. NIGRO. MD '17 
from Kansas City, Mo. is a sports enthusiast is 
well known and is supported by Iiis letter of Jan. 
12 to the Chicago Tribune: "Congratulations on 
the appointment of GEORGE STRICKLER as the 
Tribune's sports editor succeeding Wilfred Smith. 
Smith did a fine job for the paper as I know Mr. 
Strickler will do also. 
"Also, congratulations on the appointment of 
Cooper Rollow as assistant sports editor. You have 
one of the best sports newspapers in the country; 
it ranks high among all the papers." 
Note the following changes of address for members of the Class of 1915: JOHN F. L.-\NGAX from 706 Darlington Rd. N.E., Atlanta, Ga. to 1201 Industrial Park Dr.. Marietta, Ga. 30000; D.WID MICHAEL LIPPEATT from North Section, Duggcr, Ind. to Indian Lake Estates, Fla. 33853; DR. EDWARD GEORGE GUSHURST from 790 Washington St., Denver, Colo, to 775 Paseo El Mirador, Palm Springs, Calif. 92262 and WILLARD V. HALLAM from New Florida Hotel, Lakeland, Fla. to 1061 S. Success Ave., Bekiir Apt. "B," Lakeland, Fla. 33803. 
In a note at Christmas time, BOB ROACH from 
Muscatine, Iowa, again e^tpresscd regret for having 
been unable to attend tlic Class of 1915 Golden 
Jubilee Reunion at ND List June. Yoar many 
friends, Bob, expressed similar regret because they 
expected to see you there. 
Rev. Patrick Michael Mooney, son of the late WILLIAM J. MOONEY '15, was ordained a priest Jan, 9 in St, Francis of /Vssisi Church, Teutopolis, III. His first Solemn Mass was cele­brated Jan. 16 in St. Joan of Arc Church in Indianapolis. 
Members of the Class of 1915 should know that 
your secretary* has been appointed class agent to 
serve you and the University in connection with 
the 24tli Annual Alunmi Fund in 1966. A national 
conference of newly appointed ND class agents will 
be held on campus Feb. 26. Notre Dame is in­
ai.'giiraltng the class agent system for the first 
time this year. You may therefore expect to hear 
from me in the not-loo-distant future. 
—ALBERT A. KUHLE, Secretary 
1916 
GROVER F. MILLER 
220 9th St., Racine, Wis. 53403 


REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 • 12 1917 — 
EDWARD J. McOSKER 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, III. 60121 
From the Aluinm Office: 
FRED L. MAHAFFEY LLB '17 of New Haven, 
Ind. gave his daughter away in marriage Jan. 22 
to Charles L. Jordan in Sts. Peter and Paul 
Cathedral, Indianapolis. 
1918 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, III. 60647 
Hi Olc Timers! 
Holt- about Itgliting a candle and sending .1 birtliday greeting—even tlio it be a delayed one— to one who used to share "buns" ^tith you in the Main Building dining room: Rt. Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS MONIGHAN, 414 Church St. Gregory, 
S.D.
 57333. -Mar. 13; .\(ARCH F. "PREP" WELLS '15, 1901 E. Taylor St. Bloomington, III., Mar. 4; HARRY M. BRADY, 411 W. Townline, Payne, Ohio, Mar. 27; E. M. STARRETT, 419 Quincy St., Port Townsend, Wash., Mar. 27; 

H.
 S. CARROLL, 338 Mountain View Ave., San Rafael, Cal., Mar. 31; DR. D. M. NIGRO '17, 122 McGec St., Kan. City, Mo., Apr. 6; GEO. E. 



JUDGE ROGER J. KILEY '22 of Chi­cago received the University's second annual basketball homecoming award, February 15, during half­time ceremonies of the ND-St. John's contest. Presiding in the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, Judge Kiley was given the award in view of his outstanding and successful career following his days at ND where he was a football, basketball and baseball monogram winner. 
H.-\RBERT, Liberts- Bldg., Rock Island. III., Apr. 6; JOHN J. VOELKERS, 1006 S. Wesley Ave., Oak Park, III., Apr. 9; C. W. CALL, 1M7 Billmore Dr., Winter Garden, Fla., Apr. 21; E. J. ilc ­OSKER '17, 525 N. Mclro:e Ave., Elgin 111., Apr. 25; DR. NEIL J. WHALEN, 1023 Cadieu-x Kd., Grossc Poinlc Park, Mich., Apr. 26; V/St. 
H. KELLY, 1950 Reeveson Rd., Richmond, Ind., Apr. 28; A. W. FRITZSCHE, 575 Washington Ave., EljTia, Ohio., Apr. 28; H. C. BAUJ.-\N '17, 2069 Rustic Rd., Dayton, Ohio, May 24; REV. CEO. HOLDERITH CSC, Alumni Hall, Notre Dame, Ind., May 27; FRED L. STEERS '12, 1910 W. 107th St., Chicago, III., May 27; and 
D. E. HILGARTNER '17, P.O. 75, Harbert, .Mich., May 28. 
Heard from that TVA architect now of Car­rabellc, Fla., NORBERT G. MONNING—retired and enjoying life—no worries other than hunting 
and fishing. This "guy" had something to do 
about placing an uncapped vial containing iron 
pyrites and sulphuric acid back of a radiator in 
the second floor hall of Walsh Hall at the time of 
'18 graduation exercises. Imagine it raised a **big 
stink" at the time. Wondering if on account of 
this student, "all St. Mary's girli were back of 
a 10' Cyclone fence in my day." 
Tlien again, the fence did not stop "BIG 
FRANK" RYDZEWSKI from going after their 
apples. Quite a story, eh Frank? JOHN VOEL­
KERS sent note containing a very interesting 
felicitation he received from BILL ANDRES. 
Note from JOHN LE.\LMER asking for JOHN 
REUSS's address. 
Our Illinois Ex. Lt. Gov. SHERWOOD DKO N 
for^t-ardcd a nice family group picture—which I 
hope you'll sec—14 and more on the way. Sher­
wood proud of his monogram discus-throwing son 
PAT. Sent letter to Honorable BILL BRADBURY, 
and to BERT SENG who has a new address— 
6508 Glcnwood Ave., Chicago. "Texas" BILL 
GRADY comes thru with a nice note—thanks. 
HEINE and Mrs. BERGER are off for Texas ­
Rio Grande Valley—perhaps to Fla. Hope to "pop 
in" on "STUFFIE" BURKE. 
Heard from the grower of "Square Petunias," 
JAMES T. McMAHON. What a story this "guy" 
has about this corporation—funny. Nice note from 
"PREP" WELLS vacationing in Ft. Lauderdale. 
I see BACH.MAN, J. FLYNN, BILL REDDING 
and the great PAUL FOGERTY each winter when 
we are there. TOM KING writes that he has 
visited FRANK KIRKLAND in Portland. Ore. 
Kirkland wrote Prep, *'Reading ALUMNUS ran acro:s your name and it took me back to track meet wc had with Wisconsin one evening at ND. You were bighearted and allowed me to squeeze a small amout of your precious Capaium on my wear>* legs. I thought it was so wonderful I rubbed some on my arms and stomach. And believe it or not I have been running ever since." 
Now don't you feel real sorry for "DOC" and 
Mrs. NEIL J. WRALEN: "So come -March, off 
for a long 30.day trip thru the Afediterranean 
with stops here and there." Best wishes. Have a 
wonderful time. Believe I knoiv one person who 
wishes he could be five for 30 days and take a 
trip like that. REV. C. J. WILLIAMS, Rantoul, 
111. couldn't get time off to even attend the long-awaited Mich. St. football game. 
Oar Class Prcs. CHAS. W. CALL is about to appoint a committee for the Golden Jubilee Class Reunion in 1968. Personally, I think it is a very good idea and hope that he gets four real interested "grads," one in each section of the country. It's not too early to get started. A lot of plans have to be bid for a grand reunion. 
—GEORGE WA.AGE, Secretary 

1919 
THEODORE C. RADEAAAKER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 46900 
1920 
JAMES H. RYAN 
170 May brook Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14618 
1921 
DAN W. DUFFY 
1030 Natl. City E. 6th Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 '12 
Received notice of the deaths of two memt)er5 of the Class. JOHN J. HAHLER, Rt. 4, North PUtte, Neb.; and LAWRENCE A. WALLACE, 451 
W. Melrose Ave., Chicago. 
EUGENE VANDE BOOM JR sent me a change of address and asked me to change the Jr. to Sr. His new address is 3^10 Broadwray, Kansas City, Mo. 54111. 
Received canls from the following who said they will attend the Reunion: LEO KELLY, &IARK ZIMJklERER, WILLLWII SHERRY, KARL PFEIFFER, A. T. BRAY, JOE BRANDY (who 
ALUMNUS MARCH 19<4 APRIL 
uTOtc on his card, "And how.") and JOHN 
KENXEY (who wrote on his card, "Arise *21crs. 
Respond to the call. Bull sessions, Dan Duffy, Free 
Beer and all**)* 
Looks like we will have a good turnout at our 
45th Reunion. 
—DAN W. DUFFY, Secretary 
From the Alumm Office: 
A card recently received from GEORGE C. 
WITTERIED mentioned that he ". . , hoped to 
attend our 45th Reunion. Will contact LARRY 
"RED" MORGAN, \VILLL-\M ALLEN and 
NORM "JUDGE" BARRY. Somebody with in­
fluence should put tlie pressure on CHARLES 
"JOCK" MOONEY of Memphis." George, who 
resides in Chicago, is tlie proud fatlicr of two 
bo>-s, both in the teacliing profession. GEORGE 
JR. '49 is teaching at U. of Missouri, St. Louis 
Branch, while the younger, Pcler, who is a West 
Point graduate, is a major presently assigned to 
the Air Force Academy. 
1922 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 175 Landing Rd. N., Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
Our grateful thanks to all of our classmates wlio 
sent Christmas and New Year greetings, also, for 
some fine news items for '22. 
RAY KE.\RN S of Tcrre Haute has supplied sonic 
family news. Raja's youngest son is now in latv 
practice with him, and a second son will be 
associated with the law firm after he has graduated 
in law at the U. of Louisville this midterm. 
TIic eldest son is with the Dcpt. of Health, Educa­
tion and Welfare in Champaign, III. The daughter 
and her husband, DR. LU&\RELLE, and two 
cliildren live in Tcrre Haute. Ray reports Iic 
attended tlie Purdue, Army and Southern Cal­
fooiball games, but spotted no classmates. 
From Grecmrich, Conn, uiitcs AKT SHE-A in this manner: **Last May, at 65, I retired from the American Telephone & Telegraph Co. in NYC. We arc remaining in Greenwich where we have lived for 20 years. Both my u-ife, Sally, and I arc enjoy­ing retirement. I am doing some of the things put aside before, such as writing to the Clais secretary*. Our children arc nearby: the eldest, a Marjmount College graduate, is an investment representative married to a Manltattan real estate expert. Our youngest daughter is SISTER MONIC-V SND, Trinitj- College '58. With a firm Iiand, she rules the 7th grade at St. Justin's in Hartford. Our older son is Holy Cross '60, an cx-Marlne captain, and a newly appointed officer of a New York City bank. The >"oungest son will graduate from Colgate next June. Although, he was accepted at ND, I finally bowed to the Cross and Colgate. Tliat just about wTaps it up. Last summer in the Spanish Paxnlion at the World's Fair, I sat next to JUDGE GAFFNEY of New Britain. I remembered tliat you were a good friend of C^-^s. I am looking %rith pleasure to the time of our 45th Reunion; if I am still up and around, I'll be there. We had a line time at the 40th and I enjoyed the cliats with you.^' 
From Jacksonville, Fla., come these words from the pen of ^lrs. FRITZ BAUMER (Peg): "I am writing to wish to you a Merr>* Christmas, also, to tell }'ou of the nice surprise tlie bo>*s and I had a few Sundays prior when Mr. and Mrs. CY KELLETT of Milford, Mass., dropped in to see t:s. Cy had read of Fritz's death in the ND .'\LUMNUS. We had not known where Cy was located and Iiad not seen him since the '22 graduation. They were here visiting a son and his family at the U. of Florida, as well as others tlirough the state. I thought it was extremely kind of them to call on us." 
'22 BREVITIES 
RANGY MILES attended the Miami game; VINCE HANRAHAN was reported in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands on a business trip in the late fall; The JUDGE AL SCOTTs of Los Angeles became grandparents twice in November; RICH­ARD McCARTY of Canton, Ohio is now an asHxiatc editor of The Spirit of Lorrlto, a publica­tion of the Sisters of the Dinne Spirit of Eric, Pa. His address is 2812 Har\-arxi Ave. N.W., Canton, Ohio 44709. He enjo>-5 hearing from his classmates. Because of illness, he cannot navigate quite as actively as heretofore. Will somebody organize a posse and tr>' to locate JIM SHAW as his Christmas card was returned w*itli notation: "Moved to part'> unknou*n." 
BUSINESS RETIREMEXTS 
FRANCIS C. BLASIUS JR, Dec 31, after many years of service with the US AFB at Dayton, Ohio. Home address is: 516 Dajtona Parkway, Dayton 6, Ohio. ARTHUR C. SHEA, May 31, 1965, after completing 36 years of service with the American Telephone & Telegraph Co. in Neiv York Cit>'. The Shea home address is: 20 Church St., Apt. B20, Greenuich, Conn. 

iV£ir ADDRESSES 

DR. EDWARD X. ANDERSON, c/o Mansfield 
Tmg. School & Hospital, Mansfield, Conn. 0G25I. 
HEARTLEY WILLIAM ANDERSON, 1521 PI>TO­
outh Place, Glenview, III. 60025. 
—G. KID ASHE, Secretan-

From the Alumni Office: 
After 42 years of working with Bo>'s' Clubs of 
America, J. DANIEL CULHANE retired last 
December. Tlie Bo>-s' Club Professional Association's 
magazine. Profiles, recently featured Dan in an 
article referring to the "infiucncc this man has 
exerted in his lifetime as a leader of boys, a 
leader of men, an outstanding citizen, a devoted 
family man and a devout church member." 
1923 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
1924 
JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
1925 
JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo, Ohio 43606 
FRANCIS p. "ABE" McFADDEN \vho is now living at 401 N. Riverside Dr. in Pompano Beach, Fla., lias been good about sending neu's even tliough It has been sad news. STEVE CARBOY passed away Jan. 2. Abe mentioned tliat Steve had not been in good health for loine time, but that he had seen him once since our reunion and lie seemed his usual self. Steve leaves his u-ife, Helen, a son and two da:;ghtcrs. 
"HANK" WUR2ER sent me a copy of a letter he received from JOH.N* KILKENNY with refer­ence to Steve which is worth quoting: *'We will all miss Steve. What a cliaracter! Brilliant of mind and subtle of speech; arbitror>" yet charming; domineering yet submiisive; eloquent yet inarticu­late; proud yet humble. There was only one Steve Carbov." 
Abe McFadden had heard from JOHN BART­LEY tliat VINCE.Vr "PLXKY" SCILXEIDER had died Jan. II, but Hank forgot to enclose the article about Pinky and I don't have the details. Both Stc\'e and Pinky were at our last reunion. We will miss them both vcrj* much. Hank Wurzer has arranged for a Class Mass for both fellows. Our deepest s>'mpatliy to both families and I know tlie members of the Class of '25 w*ill remember Steve 
What Thomas H. King hasn't un­dertaken in his youthful 70 years, rest assured, he'll make an attempt at it in the days ahead of him. 
"Mr. Everything," a title given Tom by the Michigan State Univer­sity community with whom he is now associate director of the devel­opment fund, has been a lawyer, coach, businessman, professor, dean and administrator. And, in a sense, it all began at Notre Dame. 
From the land of the golden dome, where he was a regular end on three varsity football teams, Tom earned 
and Pinkj- in their prayers. 
Your secretary just received word from LAWR­
ENCE CASEY of Batavia, N.Y. that his pal 
JOSEPH. M. HAGERTY of Bessemer, Ala. pa^ed 
away on Feb. 4. Joe left his wife, Jane, whom 
many of us met when ihej* were on the Notre Dame 
campus during our 40th Reunion. Jane, as secre­
tary-I would like to extend to >-ou the deepest 
s\-mpathy of the Clas% of 1925 in your great loss, 
and you can be sure his classmates uill remember 
Joe in their prayers. 
Larry CASEY mentioned that he was at the 
ND-.-\rmy game with Joe and his wife last fall. 
They also saw JOHN BARTLEY and his wife at 
the game. 
—JOHN P. HURLEY, Secretary 

From the Alumni Ofiice: 
JLM CROWLEY and EDG.AR "RIP" MILLER, 
two of ND's Rocknc-era football greats and 
members of the Class of '25, were elected to the 
National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame 
of New Brunswick in February. Crowley, one of 
the famed Four Horsemen, and Miller, one of the 
linemen later dubbed "The Seven Alules," were 
among the 13 players and a coach selected this year. 
In late February, word was received tliat t^vo 
well-known members of the Class had passed 
avoy. The first was HARRY MCGUIRE of Santa 
Barbara, Calif. Details of his death arc una\'ail­
able. The second was SEBASTIAN J. MILLER 
of Indianapolis who died Feb, 18. A native of 
Fort Wayne, he was employed as an engineer by 
the Indiana Gas and Water Co. in Indianapolb. 
Surviving arc his widow, Florence; a son, ROBERT 
J. '65; and three brothers. Class Treasurer HANK WURZER in a recent letter to the secretary of the Alumni /Vssociation, indicated tliat he lias made arrangements with **. . . the Holy Cross Fathers to set up a Mass each month for all the deceased members of the Class until June, 1970, the occasion of our next reunion. I also sent them an additional stipend for a Mass ever>* other month for all the deceased members of the Class until June, 1970. In other words, tlicse 90 ^[asres are all set up, with a stipend of $5.00 a Mass given Father ^Ic^VuIifTc of the Holy Cross Fathers, and we still have a balance on hand of slightly over $200.00, which I thought I should retain for the individual Masses. In addition, I had a Mass said each week for all the deceased members of tlie Class during the month of November and at Christmas time. During 
the Iioliday season I had Masses said for all the deceased members of the CI-iss." 
1926 
FRANK A. DEITLE 1763 Kessler Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46616 

REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 -12 
If you liavc not circled June 10 on your calendar, do it now. There will be a big turnout as indicated 

TOM KING '18: 

a bachelor of philosophy degree. After graduation, a two-year tour with the Army as a first lieutensmt and a short playing stint with the original Chicago Bears, Tom enrolled at the University of Louisville, where he was awarded a law degree in 1928. His association with Louisville continued beyond graduation, until 1932, as he coached and directed the athletic fortunes of the university. 
Then, in 1933, Tom consented to devote a couple of etftemoons each week away from his new Lansing in­surance venture, coaching the ends 
ALUMNUS MARCH ]966 APRIL 

from an advanced sampling. 
Our traveling ambassador. Class President RUDY GOEPFRICH, sent the follo%%-ing note: "While waiting at the Tampa airport, I called MARK MOONEY and had a nice chat with him. He has an air-conditioning supply business and is doing well, ^{a^k was expecting to hear from RONL\N FELDPAUSCH who comes down to Florida every winter. Mark expects to be at our Reunion in June. 
Also called JIM GLYNN in St. Petersburg. Jim recently was elected president of a new bank in St. Petersburg. He also has a paper business there. He talks to JOHN A. REILLY occasionally. I tried to call John but did not get an answer. Jim said he received a call from PHIL DONOVAN. Jim expects to make the Reunion." 
Since tlie last writing, two of the best known and liked members of our Class have passed on. WADE SULLIVAN died Dec. 4 only a few days after his scheduled retirement as postmaster of Algona, lowTi. We also lost RAY DURST in Jamiar>*. Ray, the former president of oar Class and a dedicated Notre Dame booster, died at his winter home in Arizona. 
—FRA.\K A. DEITLE, Secrctao' 

From the Alumni Office: 
DENNIS J. O'NEILL noted in a recent letter that he had received a card from ALDEN E. LENHARD '27 who wns in .Atliens at the time. The Whcelabrator Co.'s advertising manager was with his wife on a world-wide junket. 
The St. Louis Posl-DUpateh announced in 

Januan- ibc appointment of Jx\MES H. KE.\NEDY as its advertising manager. Jim, a former advertising manager of the old St, Louts Star-Times, lias been with the Post-Dispatch for 16 years. 
In mid-January, BER.Nx\RD K. "WINK" WINGERTER wrote lo tell us of the installation of JERRY HAYES as a Knight of St. Gregory' in a Jan. 16 ceremony held at the Sacred Heart Ca­thedral in Newark, N.J. After the affair, the predominantly Notre Dame group that wtis in attendance—including TOM FARRELL, JIM WALDREN, DAN O'NEIL and JACK TIND.\R —repaired to the Hayeks home in Montclair for a real reunion with many of their friends. 
1927 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. River St., Aurora, Ml. 60504 
All of you have probably obser\'cd that recent issues of the ALUMNUS have carried appropriate notices to the classes involved that their reunions are scheduled for June of this year. Ours is naturally not included, but these notices WAX serve to remind us tltat our own reunion will be held next year. 
I suppose it is not necessary to call your atten­tion to the fact that it will be our 40th. It is well to bear the occasion in mind so you can start making your long-range plans. So far as I know, the exact dates have not been set, but they vnW undoubtedly be during the first part of June 1967. 
A few weeks ago, ED McLAUGHLIN sent me a copy of the data sheet which had been sent to all members of the Class of 1928 asking for news concerning grandchildren, children in college and similar information. Among the questions was one concerning retirement plans. This brought me up 
short, but I suppose the time lias come when all of us must at least give some thought to this important event. The idea of a data sheet is good; it certainly should bring forth many news items. You can look forward to receiving a questionnaire 
within the next few months. 
A short time ago, I received a newspaper clipping containing the news that S/\M PRIVITERA died. He had practiced law with distinction in Silver Creek, his home town, and Buffalo, N.Y,, ever since he was graduated. He had been vllbge attorney of Silver Creek for 15 years. His classmates, particularly those in la%v school, will remember him for his affable personality and the thoroughness with which he studied law. 
The latest issue of the ALUMNUS contained an insert inviting each class member to send in news items. A day or two later I received a note from Ri\Y KEISER of South Bend. He wrote that when he was on his way to Mayo Clinic for ear surgery last fall, he stopped in LaCrosse, Wis., and saw JOE MURPHY. Joe is president of LaCrosse Paper & Box Co. Ray says that except for his white hair, Joe looks the same. All of Joe's children are gone but they have presented him with a large list of grandchildren. I was glad to hear from Ray and hope he continues the good work. 
I aho received a note from PAT COHEN. He, too, is already thinking of the 40th Reunion and saj-s he is looking for\\-ard lo seeing JOE G.-\RT­I^\ND, "DINGER" Mca\BE, RED SMITH, ED PHILBIN '28, PAT a\NNY and JOHN McMANMON. He also mentioned that BOB SHIELDS is sick. I hope by the time this is published Bob has complctetv recovered. 
—CL.\RE.\'CE' J. RUDDY, Secretary 

From the Alumni Office: 
A news release from the U. of Miami in Coral Gables revealed that GEORGE H. PAFF was one of 27 faculty members named "Outstanding Teachers" by vote of his colleagues. The 27 represent five percent of the faculty* who have been teaching fulltime with the University for one or more years. This recognition of excellence in teaching carries with it a permanent increase of $1,000 in the annual salarv- of each Outstanding Teacher. 
A pliotograph appearing in the Chicago Tribune recently revealed that JOHN ^tcNALLY, better known to his classmates and the sportsworld as JOHNNY BLOOD, was married in Las Vegas. Anyone knowing the address of the former \"arsity football player, who became a legendary halfback for the Green Bay Packers from 1929 thru 1936, is asked to fortrard it to the Alumni Office. 
1928 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 68-10 108th St., Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375 
HENRY P. DAVIS died Dec. 30, after a long illness involving a heart condition. Henry had been chief accountant at the Quaker State Oil and Refining Co. in St. Mary's, W. Va. He Is survived by his widow and a married daughter. Henry was always interested in ND and in our Class. Many of you saw him at our 30th Reunion. I last saw him 
renaissance man 
of Michigan State's football squad for head coach Charlie Bachman, a former ND teammate. 
He viewed this favor as only a temporary, part-time association with MSU, unaware that it was really the beginning of a highly suc­cessful career with that university. 
The ensuing 33 years have seen Tom's abilities used in forming the school's veterans' affairs oflBce, di­recting the oflSce of alumni relations, launching the operation of a place­ment bureau, and heading a self-organized personnel office. Tom, 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
however, is probably best known by the MSU alumni for his years of ac­tivity and accomplishments as dean of students. 
A feature article on Tom King recently appeared in the Michigan State alumni magazine, noting that, ". . . probably no one in the entire history of Michigan State has held as many responsible positions, car­ried as many different titles, or per­formed so well in so many different roles as Tom King . . .," Michigan State's "Mr. Everything," and the pride of Notre Dame. 
at the Annual Class Cocktail Psxtj at ND in 1961. He recently wrote the following: "I have been distressed to hear of so many deaths among the classmates. It marks the passing of time more than any aches, pains or baldness could posubly do." 
ART GLEASON advised me of the death of CHARLES J. McGUCKIN of Akron, Dec 6, Cliarley was the retired ovmer of Moncricf Steel Products Co. He formerly was secretary of the Akron ND Club. He leaves his widow, a daughter and a son. 
EDWARD E. THOMAN died on Jan. 7, from a heart attack suffered at his home in North Hollyivood, Calif. Ed took an early retirement seven years ago after having worked for 30 years as engineer for Indiana Bell, the last 20 years in South Bend. Ed had 13 grandchildren from his five children. After the death of his first wife, he married a close friend of one of his daughters. His son, D.AVID, was graduated from ND in 1956. You will recall that Ed returned for our 20lh Reunion. 
It is a pleasure once again to report a marriage. GEORGE KELLEY, assistant managing editor of 
the Youngstown Vindicator, was married Nov. 27. 
JOHN RICKORD, who attended the affair, gave me this information. George joins the increasing UL-mber of widowers In our Class who have re­married, such as BILL KIRWAN. PAUL BRUST, EUGENE FARRELL, PAT a\N.NY and LEO ROZUM. I am also aware of the following who, I believe, are still widowers: AL GURY, ANT>Y BOYLE, DON CORBETT, VIC FISCHER, JOHN WALLr\CE, CLIPPER S.MITH and JACK DOYLE. Please let me know of names of class­mates who should be added to these lists. 
Although many of the widowers remarry, there docsn*t seem to be any change in the status of our perennial bachelors. The only fairly recent marri­ages of which I am aware in this group arc those of CYP SPORL, ED BRENNAN and PAT VAR­R.-VVETO. Am I correct that the following are still enjopng bachelorhood? DAVE SMITH, TOM BOV, aVRROLL PINKLEY, ED BOURKE, GEORGE CRONGEYER, JOE DeBOTT, W. H. EWING, W. H. .MURPHY, FRED PFORTNER, JOHN POLISKY, ED RAFTER, MARTIN RYAN, JIM SCHOCK.\ESSY, BOB WARD, BILLY WOOD, D.\N VERRILLI, JOE KANE, ED Mc-GAULEY and ED McS^VEENEY. 
Mrs. Buckley inquired as to what information we have on the wives and children of our deceased cbssmates. I would appreciate having some news items on these individuals since many of them were interested in the Class, 
FATHER JIM McSHA.NE SJ, 1325 S. Grand, Room 106, St. Louis, 63104, received a great response from a letter he sent to the Class. Fr. Jim reports that JOE SULLIVAN, an attorney in Chicago, is ver>* ill. 
Thanks to RUSSELL SMITH, we now liave %vord from JOHN GAUGHAN at Bwc 400, Puerto Plata, Dominican Republic. John is working on a power plant project there. 
ORVILLE MURCH, who lias been with the Alpine ^fichigan Power Co., retired March 1, and has opened a real estate office in his home in Alpena, Mich. Orville was named "Northeastern Michigan Top Citizen" during Michigan Week last year. 
JOHN "RED" LAHEY, chief pharmacist at the 
Dixon State School in Dixon. 111., has 22 grand­
children. Is that the record to date for the class? 
While doing iome research as president of the 
New York Industrial Relations Recarch Associa­
tion, I found an excellent article in the Aug. 5, 
IS65 issue of Iron Ae^ by FRANK DONOVAN 
entitled, "Union—Management Teamwork Blasts 
Costs—Cut Prices." Frank, president of Kaydon 
Engineering Corp. in Muskegon, Mich., exphins 
how union-management teamu-ork paid off in his 
company. Iron Age fcalured a picture of Frank 
on the cover of that issue. 
I trust that each clas-matc received an "In Menioriam" card with my Fcbruar>- letter. Tlianks to HOWIE PH.-\LIN for pa\-ing the cost for this card and the entire mailinc. 
BERN CAREER and ED QUI.VN liavc selected the Oct. 8 Army game for o-jr 11th .Annual '28 Class Cocktai! Party get-together at ND immediately following the game. Please make a note of this date so you will liavc It when you order your football tickets in June. 
HOWARD V. PHALIN, president of Field Enterprises Education Corp., has been elected chainnan of Dc I^iul Univerjity's Board of Lay Trustees. 
Our traveling classmate, VINCE CARNEY, reported from Gonzaga College in Spokane where he has a daughter. He saw the game at Berkeley with JOE HISS. He wrote from Mexico and from the U. of Dayton where he has another daughter. He expects to visit another daughter in Paris soon. I was sorry to hear from Vince that BILL BROWN had a serious operation on his back. Vince \-isitcd CARROLL PINKLEY in Porlageville, Mo. 
TOM LAVELLE writes from Anderson, Ind., tliat he has a son at Indiana Medical School, an­other at Purdue and a third at St. Melnrad Sem­inary. BUTCH DEVAULT dropped in Tom's office at the Lavclle Non-Ferrous Casting Company. Butch travels for Knapp Supply Company, Mun­de, Ind. PHIL CENEDELL.-\ has a son in medi­cal school at Riclmiond, Va., a daughter and a son at California U. 
CHARLES J. DUCEY has been named asristant supreme secretary of the Knights of Columbus in New Haven, Conn. He is also president, Cath­olic Family Scr\iccs of New Haven. 
JOHN CAVANAUGH, senior partner in the law firm of McDennott, Will and Emery In Chicago has a daughter at the U. of Wisconsin and an­other at St. Mary's. John is on the Board of Regents of Dominican College in Racine and of Klarquettc U. in Milwaukee. He Is on the Board of EHrectors of Western Publishing Co., Ottawa Silica Co., The Aro Corp., Wells, Lamont Corp., Kable Printing Co. and Gardiner Metals Co. 
—LOU BUCKLEY, Secrctarj-
From the Alt:mni Office: Last December, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) took time out from their many space projects and co.2ntdowns to single out the efforts of WILLIAM F. ARMIN. Bill, who has spent a business-career lifetime in the fields of procurement and industrial relations, was awarded a certificate of appreciation from NASA for superior acliieveraent in the successful completion of the Saturn I Program. 

JOHN cuLLEN '22: 42-year VA 
After more than 42 years of fed­

eral service, John P. CuUen LLB*22 
has admitted reaching formal retire­
ment. But for John Paul, reaching 
the mandatory age merely signals 
the beginning of an all-out concen­
tration in the fields of his first love: 
writing and historical research. 
The Janesville, Wis., native, who 

is also a member of the University's 
Library Council, turned his eyes to­
ward more scholarly endeavors last 
December when he ended a lifelong 
career with the Veterans Adminis­
tration in Milwaukee. 
It was a career that began after 

1929 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Onlv recentlv we learned of the May 26 death 

of WALTER J. McMORROW PhBC '29. Bud 
was vice-president of Prespo Precision Products, 
Long Island, N.Y. MR . Mc^Ior^ow resides at 56-40 
213th St., Ba>-side, N.Y. 
Belated also i; the sad news of the Sept. 9 

death cf JOHN R. HOOVER AB '29. His widow 
rrceivcs mail c/o Mrs. George F. Kerns, 225 N. 
Grove Ave., Oak Park, 111. 
Another hlghlv respected and beloved member 

of the Class, DAVID W. SAXO.V AB '29, is no 
longer with us. Dave, father of DAVID W. JR. '58 
and EUGENE M. "og, died Dec 31, Mrs. Saxon 
lives at 280 Ben Avon Way, Memphis, Tenn. We 
recall Dave as a student in Journalism and as a 
reporter on the South Bend Tribune. He served 
the Memphis Commercial Appeal a number of 
years as reporter, copy editor and makeup man. 
More recently he u:as director of publicity and 
account executive for Early Maxwell Associates, a 
p blic relations firm. 
This list Is alreadv much too long but must 
Include also JOSEPH A. SVETE AB '29 who 
died Jan. 9. Mrs. Svctc sur%'ivcs and lives at 2440 
N- Jefferson St., Lorain, Ohio. 
Your secretary wishes to express his condolence 
and that of the Class to the families of these men 
with whom we shared friendship and memories. 
We arc pleased to have some Christinas-note nrw^ to transmit on ROCCO PERONE and family. Rock and Agnes now live in Arlington Hts., 111. He is still with .^T&T as was the case In Cincinnati. Mary Elena and family are in Del Mar, Calif., Paulette will receive her master's from Western R;serx'e in Cleveland In June, and Denisc is a sophomore in music at Indiana U. Young Rock pla>'s high school basketball, while Perry's best s;>ort is baseball. Perry is a rabid ND fan. This v.'lnter Perr\' has been manager of a basketball team that uses the Perone basement for its practices. Is that your idea of a peaceful weekend in the household? Rock's problems compare trith those of FATHER MULCAIRE In Sophomore Hall. 
New addresses tliat should interest you include the follou-ing: BILL McCLEARY, Pure Carbonic Co., 150 E. 42nd St., N-YC; WILL.\RD CROTTY, 1060 Lake James R-2, .Angola, Ind.; THEODORE WrrZ, 3224 E. Tltird St., Tucson, Ariz.; HARLEY .McDEVITT, 630 Fifth Ave., N*YC; and HERMAN OHLIGSCHLAGER, 2112 Ann Marie Dr., Jeffer­son, Ky. 
JOHN B. SULLIVAN, director of educaUon of the New York State Commission for Human Rights, is back at work after recovering from a plane crash In Rochester some time ago. 
TIM TOOMEY is nou- witli the Bureau of Emploj-ment Security in the US Department of Labor in Washington; specifically, the insurance division of the Fann Labor Service. 
RAY BREEN of Clevebnd u-rites: "Wc arc grandparents for the seventh time. Our son, Kenneth '58, b the father of all seven grand­children. They had their first before he was graduated. Our oldest daughter married last >'C3r, 
graduation from the University's 
Law School in 1922, and that saw 
John hold positions, varying from a 
claims examiner to a regional ofiice 
manager. 
John Paul assumed the latter role 
in 1945, when he was sent to Mil­
waukee to organize and manage a 
new regional office. There he re­
mained for 20 years, managing ser­
vices that ranged from rehabilitation 
of the disabled to monthly compen­
sation or pension payments for ser­
vice-connected and nonservice-con­
nected disabilities. Prior to John's 
retirement, the Wisconsin depart-
our next oldest child, Noreen, Is a nun. She is 
a Sister of Notre Dame at Our Lady of Vi'dorj' 
school in Washington, D.C. She enjoys teaching 
Rtst grade. BOB KENNEDY'S son, Michael, was 
a student In her class last year. 
*'Nan, our youngest daughter, works for Sher­
wood Drug Co. as a buyer. 
"We have been veiy bus>' but managed to 
save time for the North Carolina game and the 
.-Vrmv game." 
—LARRY STAUDER, Sccretar>­

From the .Alumni Office; It appears as though the '29-'30 ND football teams from the Rockne era will meet more often than their former five-year reunions. Last year's Northwestem-ND game reunion wxis such a gala affair that they now are planning an encore this fall at the Army game, Oct. 8. NORDY HOFF­^LAN has been elected president of the group, with JOHN QUINN assisting in the Chicago area. Tentative site for the reunion is South Bend's Holiday Inn. JOSEPH E. KEEFE and his immediate family journeyed to Rome in December to attend the ordination and first Mass of Joe's son. Rev. Patrick Dennis Kecfe. Fr. Keefe has attended the North American College since 1962 and will complete his studies this spring, returning then to his Florida diocese. 
1930 
DEVERE PIUNKETT O'Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
1931 
JAMES T. DOYLE Rm. 3100, 105 W. Adams St. Chicago, III. 60603 





REUNION 
JUNE 10-11 • 12 
The next big event for the Class of 1931 will be our 33th Reunion. 
All who attended previous reunions uill be on liand and if you liave never attended a class reunion, be sure to make this one. .\s the years go by, they become more Important. Thirty-five years ago when reunions and commencement were held the same weekend, wc no doubt thought how old some of the alumni looked who %vere returning for their 25th reunion. Come back for your 35ih and be surprised how young and well preserved >*ou arc. 
Judging from the letteis I have received recently it seems as though I were back in Chicago where I bad greater contacts with classmates. JIM MULVANEY was In town recently and again tried to get in touch with me. He sent a note enclosng a letter from JOE DUNNE who v^'as 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

vet retires 
ment of the Veterans of Foreign 
Wars hailed him for his contribu­
tion to the national program for 
veterans and their dependents. 
A veteran of World War I and a 
member of the Ohio Bar Association, 
John now turns his full efforts to 
the pursuit of historical writing and 
research, a hobby that actually took 
on professional overtones in 1931 
when his book of short stories, 
HeUoj Wisconsinj was published. 
He and his wife, Mary, will con­tinue to reside at 9035 Jackson Park Blvd. in Milwaukee, with their three children. 
spending some (line in Nassau and who is planning to be on hand in June. Jim will be there, so I am sure JOHNNY BURNS will he busy rounding up the eastern contingent. LEO KLETZLY sent a note saying lie liad heard from RAY GEIGER. Leo has two sons who are ND alumni and a daughter who is a Franciscan nun. This is Leo's first letter to n\c in 35 years, so now ihal he is in the habit, I should be hearing ever>' vear or so. IL\RRY KENNEDY has retired from Coca-Cola and is spending iiis lime traveling and golfing. He and GEORGE COSTELLO met at the Na\7 game last fall and are planning lo be Iierc in June. 
TOM MONAHAN has been travelling around the country drumming up interest in the Reunion. Among classmates he has seen are JERRY CROWLEY, C-\RL CRONIN, DON O'TOOLE, PAUL FEHLIG, TO.\I CONLEY, BERT METZ­GER and, I am sure, SPIKE SULLIVAN. He also visited F. X. MURPHY in Roswcll, N.NL, last year. I visited F. X. on my way out here in DeceinbiT, 1961 and this Christmas received a long letter from him. Sure wish he could make it back in June. 
Had a note sa>-ing that GEORGE L. O'CON­NOR lias been made president of Process Operatois, Inc., Houston, Tex., an engineering ser\-ice company. I had a card froui LOUIS GODAY who Was spending some time in Spain visiting his mother. Louis is in the insurance business in Ne\v York and plans to make the Reunion. 
While sunning in Palm Desert during Jaiiuar}', I managed to pick up a Cfticaso Tribune and was shocked lo learn of the death of BOB B.AER of La Grange, III. Bob was a wonderful man and fine friend whose presence ahvays made a group more interesting. Bob and HANK CHAMBERS were the inseparable campus pals we remember. To his widow and family, we offer the sympathy of the Class and our prayers. 
I also received word of the death of EDWxVRD 
F. CUNNINGHAM, Indianapolis, Ind. on Dec. 

14. To his widow and family, our prayers and syinpathy arc offered. Bemvcc Collins, wife of RAYMOND COLLINS, died suddenly last October, and I did not Icani of his loss until much later. To Ray and other classmates in the loss of their loved ones, our sympathy is offered. 
Some time ago I received notice that FR.\NK BUTORAC was in Kodiak, Alaska and this week I sec he is now listed as being in Richmond, Va. I can hardly blame him for seeking a warmer climate, but he sure picked a spot with lots of snow. ANTHONY RANSAVAGE also is listed as living in Anchorage, Alaska. CLIFF FISCHER has returned from California to Morion Grove, 111. DEON SUTTON is now with the University, working out of the Foundation's New York office. TOM ASHE will be back in June. His travel agency will handle tickets for Southern Californians returning. 
I had a news note from Marie and JIM McQUAXD. Jim is ser\-ing on the Indiana Multiple Sclerosis Association Board and has helped Knox County double the amount of money raised this year. I am sure wc will see Jim and Marie in June and I hope they Iiavc a supply of their 
Guidebook to Historic Vincennes, Indiana with 
them. I am sure many will want to buy a copy of their contribution to Indiana lore. This article will be one of the last reminders urging a record turnout for our 35th Reunion. 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

There will not be a formal committee to push 
attendance, but with ever>'one a comnnlte member­
at-large, there is no reason why we should not 
make this one of the best in Class history. See 
you in June. 
—JAMES T. DOYLE, Secretary 

1932 
JAMES K. COLLINS 
2982 Torrington Rd., 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 44122 
Congratulations to ALEX WILSON on his 
wonderful record as head coach of the University's 
track team. His teams have been outstanding during 
the 15 years of his coaching, and his cross-country 
team just missed being tops in the country hst fall. 
He has developed many great track men. Many 
are distance men who ran llie same distances in 
which Alex starred. 
Class President IKE TERRY writes that he has 
been louring the Wisconsin area and finds that 
ANDY ^fcGUAN, JOILV LITCHER, TED HAL­
PIN and the others there are already talking about 
the next Reunion. Ike volunteered his efforts lo 
help FRANK O'MALLEY in promoting the 
Foundation's drive this year. 
IfARRY MOSS, occupied %%'ith several business 
ventures in Gloversville, N.Y., has been extremely 
active in politics there according to his brother, 
BILL MOSS '34. 
Wc arc very sorry to learn of the deaths of two 
men of the Class during recent montlis. JOE Mc-
DONALD died on Aug. 6 in Inkerman, Pa., 
although his death was not previously reported. 
CHARLEY P.\LT died Jan. 25 in West Bend, Wis. Both Joe and Charley, well-known and popular figures in the Class, will be sadly missed. 
HE.VRY THOLE.\ was transferred recently to New Haven, Conn., and can be reached there at 70 Livingston St. 
ED O'MALLEY has moved across the country from California to 907 N. Van Dorn St., Alex­andria, Va. 
I would like to add mv thanks and praise to VINCE Mc-VLOO.N '34 for the wonderful job he has done with the ND Club of Rome. My wife and X visited him at the Club last fall, and ad­mired his handling of their affairs in such a gracious manner. He says he has joined the Romans after 15 years there, but he remains the most welcome sight in Rome. 
—JAMES K- COLLINS. Secretarv-

From the Alumni Office: 
The mayoralty career of H. CL/\Y JOHNSON came to an end in January when more than 200 of his Rye, N.Y. constituents turned out to honor the man who ser\'ed their community from 1961 to 1965. 
An article in the Dec. 19 edition of tlic Boston Globe indicated that Col. REMI O. RENTER has been assigned as the deputy division engineer in the New England area. His past Army experience has been associated with space project construction. 
1933 
JOHN A. HOYT, JR. Gillespie & O'Connor, 342 Madison Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10017 
Wc learned with deep regret of the recent death of Mildred Joyce, wife of JOHN R. JOYCE of Wilmclte, III. 
"In Paradisum Deducant Te .Angeli" 
At the Dec. 8 Universal ND Communion Observance at St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York and at the dinner following, we vbited briefly with ANDY BOTTI of Middletown. N.Y., BILL LYNCH of White Plains, N.Y., GEORGE ROHRS of Vonkers, N.Y. and MARSHALL Mc-AV.\NEY, who u-as In from River Edge, N.J. 
ED ECKERT was on the campus for the Michigan State game, and upon his return he advised us that LUCIEN KEMPF lias consented to act as Class Agent for the Foundation. We would urge all those who arc contacted by Liicien to give him your full support. 
Pat Linskcy, MARTIN LINSKEY's boy, will be graduating with the Class of 1966 and is busily engaged in preparing for his Law School .-Xdmission Test. He expects to attend law school in the East. 
JACK BREEN and JERRY ASHLEY came to New York from Detroit for the Army-ND game. During the short stay, we had an opportunity to visit briefly with Jack and his wife. When they left New York their plans wtre to return to Detroit via Washington, D.C. 
CHARLES "CHUCK" HAFRON as of Jan. I, 
became a retired naval aviator. Chuck is now on 
the staff of the U. of San Francisco and spends 
a great deal of his time working on the President's 
Ph)-sical Fitness Program. Welcome back to ci^lian 
life. Chuck. 
A recent survey of Class members living in the 
metropolitan N.Y. area brought forth these interest­
ing sidelights: 
JOHN ABBATEMARCO lives in Pelham and 
is president of Beverage Time Corp. in Port 
Chester. JOE BEAN, who lives in Hicks\-ille, is 
an engineer with American Electric Power Ser^'ice 
Corp. in N.Y.C. JIM CARIDEO, who lives in 
Mt. Vernon, b an engineer with the contracting 
firm of Fred Carideo, Inc. in the same city. L.ARRY 
DARROW, who now lives in New Rochellc, has 
left the big city and is now practicing bw in 
Larchmont. ART EPPIG lives in RockviUc Centre, 
and is chief architect for the consulting engineering 
finn of Edwin S. Vfwrhis & Son in Huntington, 
L.L WES FARRINGTON is city engineer and commissioner of buildings in White Plains where he resides. Dr. JERRY FERRARA lives and practices dentistr>- in Brooklyn. JERRY FINNERAN is handling public relations for Standard Wine and Liquor Co., wholesale liquor distributors in Long Island City. Jerry still lives in New York. BOB GELHAUS is with the comptroller's division of Standard Brands, Inc. and resides in Rockville Centre. GEORGE GRU is with the accounting division of Grumman Engint^ring Aircraft Corp. in Belhpage, N.Y. and lives in Baldwin, L.I. 
JOH.V A. HOYT JR., our Class secretary, lives in Scarsdalc and is a member of the New York law firm of Gillespie & O'Connor. He is a knight of the Holy Sepulchcr and is active in Catholic Charities in the New York area. JOHN HURLEY, who lives in Staten Island, is a professor of finance at St. John's U. SAM HYDE who b manager of industrial advertising for American Can Co. at its New York office, lives in Crestwood, Westchester Co. JACK JAEGER lives in Riverdale, and b now associated with a trucking concern in Long Island City. Dr. FRANK J. JENNY, who lives in Man­hattan, is a consultant in the chemical engineering field. JOHN B. KIELY lives in Merrick, L.I. He has not been active in alumni circles and we have not been able to ascertain what he has been doing over the years. 
ED KOSKY, one of the great ends at ND, still lives in Yonkcrs and is engaged in the non-ferrous fastening b-isiness. JOHN D. LAURIE lives in Westbur\-, L.I. He is a staff accountant with the CPA fir^ of Haskins & SelU. BILL LYNCH, one of the most dedicated correspondents of the Class, lives in White Plains and contin-ics his long association vvith Winthrop Laboratories. JIM MC­LAUGHLIN practices bw in NYC as a member of the firm of McLaughlin & Quinn, attorneys of record for several of the brge insurance companies. MIKE MARTIN lives in New Rochelle. He b a partner in the New York liquor finn of Breesc & Martin. Dr. DAVID GUY POWERS still lives in Forest Hilb and is a professor at Queens College. 
CHARLIE QUINN reside-, in Larchmont and is regional northeast manager of Reader*s Digest^ at its headquarleis ofllicc in Pleasantville, N.Y. GEORGE ROHRS, past president of our ClaM. is president of Tappan Tanker Terminal, Hasting, N.Y., one of the larg*** inland oil tcrmtnals in the East. George is very active on the Cardinal's Committee for Catholic Charities and still b the 
N.Y. Giants' No. I fan. JIM ROSS lives in Freeport, L.I. and b tax attorney for General Dynamics Corp. at its main office in Rockefeller Plaza. JOHN J. RYAN, who for many years was general counsel of Republic Aviation, lives ' in Huntington, L.L WALTER SLOAN lives in Bronx-ville and b general tax counsel for the California Texas Oil Corp. ED STANTON, who has not been active in alumni circles, works in New York at Rockefeller Pbza. 
—JOHN A. HOYT JR., Secretary 

1934­EDWARD F. AAANSRELD 523 W. Hillsdale, San Moteo, Cal. 94403 
From the Alumni Office: NORBERT J. SCHENKEL K-M one of sneral Serra International Club membera featured in Our Sunday Visitor's edition of Jan. 30. He ij a member 
of the Fort Wayne Sena Chapter and quite active-in the parish Visitation and Vocation Club section-The American Seating Co., the world's largest manufacturer of institutional furniture, annouiuredt in December the appointment of NORM.AN 
EDWARD WIETIC, as director of branch opera­tions. The new assignment comes after a scries of promotions he has received since joining the company in 1945. 
1935 
FRANK T. McGUIRE 
V. P.—Special Projects, Nofre Dame, fnd. 46556 
KURT SIMOX is expanding his operations in South Bend. He is going to be in a better position to do an even better job at our next reunion. 
JIM O'MEAR A stops by occasionally on b:isincss trips. Hb hot project at the moment is completely automated parking for cars. 
The local group in South Bend, PAUL FERGUS, et al., has been doing a great job for XD on the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Your secrctar>* is planning to be in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and Caracas and hoping to cross paths with ROBERT L. FORBES and MIKE SHEEDY and any otiicr Xotrc Darners in the area. We will be x-acationing, but will look forward to seeing XD people. Wc would like you all to know tliat the latchstring is alwaj-s out for all of you wlicn you 

. come to South Bend. I might also mention in closing tliat you liaven't overburdened our mail­man carrying your letters. Let's hear from you. 
—F. T. McGUIRE, Sccretarv-
From the Alumni Office: 
A very* brief neu^ release received in this office in late Januar>' indicated tliai attorney ELMER F. GURY wtis elected chairman of the Peoria Housing Aulliority. 
TTie Cobbs Co., a Miami-based national cliain of restaurants and gift shops, announced recently the appointment of THOMAS J. HILS of Hialcah as director of public relations. 
AX*THOX^' A. avXALE JR. in December was promoted to the post of assistant vice-president of the Union Planter Xational Bank of Memphis. Tony, who is a past governor of the American Institute of Banking, joined Union Planters in 1935. 
In December WILLIA.M C. KEEFE of Bronx-ville, X.Y., was elected a member of the board of directors of Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Co. 
1936 
LARRY PALKOVIC 301 Mechanic St., Orange, N.J. 07050 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n • 12 
A recent front-page feature on one of our class­mates in tlic Louisville Courier Journal caught my eye and I thought I would pass it on to you. The subject is RICHARD J. BAKER. 
Dick is president of Kaufman's of Kentucky and the new president of the Downtown Retail Mer­cliants Association of Louisville. If I may, I'll let the article take over from here: 
Since he came to Louisxillc two years ago. Baker has "only" managed to become a director of the Louisville Fund, llie YMCA, tlie Inter­national Center, llic Ciiamber of Commerce and Louisville Central Area, Inc. "I was pretty active in Dallas and they found out about it here," he said v%ith a grin. "I don't dare miss a meeting. If you're not there, you're appointed to some­thing. I'm only president ol DRMA because I missed one meeting." ROBERT MACDOXALD lives in Flint, Mich., 
and is a partner in the law offices of MacDon­ald & Fitzgerald, Suite 208 Patcrson Building, Flint, Mich. 48502. He has nine children: I giri married; oldest boy graduated from XD last year and now attending Wayne State taking law; an­other daughter attending Mar>*mount College in Virginia v*'here she is in her second year; Bob spent six years in the Aficliigan legislature as a state senator. He belongs to both XD Clubs in Detroit and Flint and sees many X'D graduates. He pbns to attend the 30-ycar Reunion. Has asked me tf there is anything he can do for our forthcoming Reunion. Get in touch with anyone from our *36 Class and liave him attend this 30­
ycar Reunion. —LARRY PALKOVIC, Secretary 

1937 
JOSEPH P. QUINN P.O. Box 275, take ienape, Andover, NJ . 0782] 
From the .-\lumni Office: 
The vvidcly known "Parachuting Padre" of World 

War II, Chaplain FR.-\XCIS L. SAMPSOX, was 
promoted to brigadier general and appointed the 
Army's deputy chief of chaplains in Fcbrtiary. 
Earning his nickname after he jumped with his 
regiment on D-Day at X^ormandy during the largest 
air drop of the war. Father Sampson now will be 
concerned with setting policy on matters related 
to religion, morals and chaplain affairs for the 
entire Army. 
1938 
BURNIE BAUER 
1139 Western Ave., 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 
Something new in Irish v\-akcs v\-as the "Good-bye 
Chariic Dinner^' held Feb. 7 for CHARLIE 
CALLAHAX in South Bend to mourn the passing 
of Charlie's services from the X'D's sports publicity 
office to the new Mbmi Dolphins of the American 
Football League. 
Sportsmen, coaches, statesmen, former football 
greats and classmates from all over the nation 
descended upon the South Bend Indiana Club 
for a $20-a-pIatc hashing-over of Charlie's virtues, 
vices and vicissitudes. The singing of Charlie's 
praises to the tunc of "Charlie, Mv Boy" and other 
parodies was led by JOIIX.V^' LUJACK, JOIIXX^ 
L.\TT.\ER, LEON HART and JOHX HUARTE, 
gentlemen *'hcisted" to Heisman trophy honors 
by Charlie's words. 
Gov. Roger Branigin of Indiana made him a 
"Sagamore of the Wabash*' W'hicJi is a Hoosier 
version of the Hall of Fame. Former coaches 
FRAXK LE.\HY, HUGH DEVORE, TERRY 
BREXXAX, classmate JOE KUHARICH and 
present Coach Ara Parseghian eulogized Charlie 
to the point of tears which were quickly dispelled, 
however, with the presentation to Chariic and 
Betty of a S3,000 check to ease the pain of parting. 
Out of town classmates included BILL COS­
TELLO from St. Louis; DR. DAX MOXAGHAX 
from Washington, D.C., who sa>3 he expects an 
assignment to Ft. Sam Houston next summer; 
HARVEY FOSTER; JIM C/VRSOX and JOHXX'Y 
O'COXXOR from Indianapolis; and Joe Kuharich 
from Phihdclphia. Tlie XD Club of Phoenix, 
.Ariz., possibly bidding for Cliarlie's retirement 
years, sent a representative vvhile 20 other clubs 
sent good v\ishcs and gifts. As Charlie was supposed 
to have said afterwards in his non-Barrj-more 
voice, "What a v\-ay to go.*' Amen, good friend, 
and good luck! 
Another celebration, somewhat quieter, took place the same week when GEXE GORMELY, the olc cross-countrv' and two-mile runner, marked the 25th anniversarv* of his profession as BRO. JAMES GORMLEY CSC. Brother Jim has been at Ave Maria Press since 1944. Ad multos Annos, Jim! 
Downtown, last month, I ran into TOMifY JORDAN', who had just had South Bend added to his GE appliance distributorship territory. Tom hopes to move his family — six children — to South Bend after sdiool. 
A welcomed note from JI^f BURGESS, now teaching English in El Paso, Tex. after retiring 
from the Army. Jim missed all the reunions 
so far, being in Japan in 1953, Germany in '58 and Viet Nam in '63, but plans to make it in '68. 
W. J. COU R who sprang from Springfield, 111. to the yD Campus, was invited to be a prin­cipal speaker at XD for the 14lh annual Union-Management Conference on Feb. 25. Bill is im­partial fdiainnan of the N^ational Joint Board for Jurisdictional Disputes in the construction industry* in Washington, D.C. 
Got a second letter in 28 years from C. J. "CHUCK" KELLEY, ole Number 1 Sorin Hall­er, v%ho has been working for DuPont in Wil­mington, Del. for the past 25 years, and Wiints to know where REDMAN DUGGAN and THOMAS MAHE R arc. He promises to sec us at CHARLIE CALLAHAX's new spot in Floiida. 
BOB CZIZEK has moved from Sayncr, Wis. to 806 State St., Ottawa, III., and TIM TUNNEY from Tcrre Haute, Ind. to 431 Brookmont Dr., Glendale, Calif. And Cliarlic has gone to Miami! Sec you all there. 
—BURXIE BAUER, Secretary 

1939 
JOSEPH E HANNAN 1804 Greenwood Dr., Soufh Bend, Ind. 46614 
From the Alumm Office: Notre Dame reunions arc likely to pop up most any pbcc, most any time. Most recent to be reported was that in New York City in late December when eight members of the Class held a luncheon at the 62 East Club on 60 East 42nd St. Those present included: RICHARD J. AX­TON, HARVEY G. FOSTER, THO.MAS G. GILLESPIE, JAMES G. McGOLDRICK, AL­BERT J. SCH.MrrZ, EDWIX A. VOX HOEXE, LARRY A. DOYLE and PAUL C. TULLY. So enjoj-able a lime had the .merry eight, that a similar luncheon has been planned for April 14. In December, the Firestone Tire and Rubber Co. announced the promotion of PAUL E. Du-CHARME to manager of labor relations for do­mestic non-tire and overseas plants. Paul, who has worked for Firestone since graduation except for a two-year tour with the X'avy, has spent most of his career with the company's industrial relations department. DAVID T. MESKILL of Wilmette, III., in January v^-as appointed manager of General Elcc­tric's central zone distribution of the firm's housc­w-arcs division. With GE since 1939, Dave is married and is the father of five children. 
1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 
117 S. Stewart Ave., Lombard, III. 60148 
There is no doubt that I have been doing 
a poor job as Class secretary. Yet, I did submit 
copy shortly after the Reunion which was lost 
and never published. X'ow that vve are started 
please send me any Class news you might have 
so wc can continue. 
Please remember BOB DOUGHERTY and Lt. 
Col. JOE WEIDXER in your prayers. These 
two died during the past year. We should re­
member them and all our departed classmates 
in our daily prayers. 
"Will now repeat some of my recollections of 
the Reunion. It is only proper tliat I express 
the sincere appreciation of everyone to DICK 
BURKE and his local committee of DOX HO­
SINSKI, JIM DEL-AHAXTT and DICK STEF­
FANIAK. They certainly did a magnificent job 
and made our Silver Reunion an outstanding 
occasion. Additional plaudits to all of you who 
came from far and near to attend. The work 
of the local committee would have been for 
naught without such terrific attendance from 
the eariy arrivals such as AL KESSIXG, JOHX 
KELLEHER, TON^ CELLA, GERRY DO.XO­
VAN'^ and others to the bst one, who I be­
lieve v*-as BERXIE MASTERSON. 
JOHN COURTNEY and BOB LOUGHERY 
arrived in time for our Saturday luncheon . . . 
CEC JORDAN came through flood tcrritorj- to 
make it from New ifcxico . . . ROGER EGAX 
explained that the move from Dalton to Atbnta, 
Ga. v*-asn't far, but the move from small town 
to city living was quite a change . . . JIM 
KENN^ v»orc the same suit to the President's 
Luncheon that he wore upon his arrival on 
campus in 1936. N'ot many of us could accom­
plish tliat from my casual observations. 
BILL SCHALLER and PHIL DOXOHUE re­nev*ied rivalries on the golf course, accompanied by JOCK HENEBRY. The two-passenger Cord carried at least seven to the Friday night dinner piloted by JIM DELAHAX*TY who had diffi­culty seeing around JIM FOLEY on one of the fenders. JOHN GAVAX' who piloted himself to the Reunion in his own pbne made arrange­ments to contact LOU RILEY who is on active duty with the Navy at Norfolk, Va. 
As more men of '40 arrived, recognition v**as greatly aided by those name tags because im­mediate recognition was impaired by the "slight" changes in physical appearances. The Indiana men had a meeting in the morning sun—ED HUSTON, WILL KAM,\f, AL KESSING and Ohioan TOM HACKETT. It would be Impos­sible to list all the names of the Men of '40 who, although, not present for various reasons, were in our thoughts and mentioned throughout the weekend. Some .were present in spirit when Fr. PAUL HACKMAN celebrated our memorial 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

Mass for deceased classmates Saturday morning 
with better tl»an average attendance. 
JOE HART was among the last to arrive at 

the main building for the class picture keeping 
some of us without sufficient head cover out in 
the sun longer tlian necessary*. NORV HUNT­
HAUSEN, Rev. JOHN PAYNE CSC, TONY 
CELLA and others made many trips to the ^oli 
course . . . never received an exact count on 
the capacity of the "bus wagon," but noticed 
it was usually pactcd beyond capacity' with 
many extremities extending from the windows. 
HYMIE CRANE and CHET SULLIVAN left 
LOU ZONTLNI and BENNIE SHERIDAN on 
the golf course to finish their round and found 
the archway at Lyons Half more cnjo>-abIc. Did 
anyone resist the urge to walk up the red carpet 
at the Rockne Memorial? . . . did anyone re­
sist the x-arious attractions in the Rockne lounge? 
Frs. LYNCH, O'CONNELL, HOLDERITH, 
BRENNAN, McAVOY and CAREY and profes­
sors BARTHOLOMEW. BENDER, a\SASANTA, 
O'MALLEY and LANGFORD added greater plea­
sure to the Reunion activities. 
The Class secretary* made a heartrending plea 

for Class news in the future -. . MILES 
WALSH was the first to respond with news, 
but now I can't read my notes. Our four-year 
classmates, who actually received their degrees 
after MO because of the law course schedule, 
turned out vcr>- wdl with ERNIE TIMPANI, 
JOHN WARD, BILL SYRING, JOE MILLER, 
ED KELLY and JOHN BARRY present. 
VINCE McMAHON of Detroit who started with 

us ^VToxc to say he was disappointed by missing 
the Reunion, but certainly intends to get to the 
ones in the future. HAL BOWLER had ever>* 
intention of attending the reunion, but just 
couldn't make it. He has since moved from New 
Jersey to JoVtct, 111. 
Personally, I would like to mention cverv'onc 

I saw at the Reunion, but our space is limited. 
No^v it is up to each of you who reads this 
column to see that there arc sufficient news 
items to utilize all of our space every Issue. Wc 
can do it! Send your ncu3 to me and I will 
get it published. 
—BOB SiVNFORD, Secretary 

1941 
JAMES F. SPELLMAN 7 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10017 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n • 12 

1942 WILLIAM M. HICKEY 3333 W. 45th Place, Chicago, III. 60632 
From CHARLES WHYTE, 615 Hansford St., St. Albans, W.Va., we hear that since Ica\-ing the Philippines after World War II, he lias been with West Virginia Rating Bureau which pro­vides rate promulgation, fire protection engineer­ing and related scr\'iccs for the fire insurance indusfr>*. Charles might be running for some kind of cliampionship. He has 12 children, which, I believe, puts him in the EFFIE QUINN league. Our last word uas that Effic had 13 children. Charles was transferred from his home town of Wheeling to Charleston and moved to St. Albans a ycar-and-a-half ago. 
Wc have a nice note from DR. CLARENCE IMBODEN, 6100 Rudyard Dr., Bethcsda, Md. He has been medical officer for the US Public Health Service since 1948. He recently received the PHS commendation medal for his work on chronic diseases. Clarence now has children ages 4, 5 and 14, He sees DR. PETER MOULDER because of mutual interest, and finds it hard to believe that our 25th Reunion is in 1967, but he is planning to attend. 
LEO V. TURGEON MD of Los Angeles, wishes to tliank all members of our Class who supported him in his election to the Board of Directors of the National ND Alumni Association. The next Board meeting is at the Old-Timers football game. Any of you who arc around for that event will find Leo at school. 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
JOHN E. LEWIS of our Class has recently been named director of publications for the Na­tional Small Business Association, an independent association pleading the causes of small business to the government. 
LEO LANIGAN now Jives comfortably in a western Chicago suburb with 11 children. He and his wife spend as little time at home as possible because he feels this gives the children a sense of responsibility. He is looking for ROBERT E.MMET WRIGHT to send him his half of the last used car sold several years ago. He, CARROLL PFTKIN and JIM FAYETTE had dinner in Chicago recently. 
JAMES F. CONWAY originally from Bardstown, Ky., is now in Chicago as a temperature control expert for Partlow" Corp. The name of his firm is Finn & Conway. 
JACK HART has moved out of Indianapolis to 
MorgantouTi, Ind., in a larsc lake development 
uith excellent fishing and boating, and beautiful 
scenery*. Jack's second son, Michael, u-as killed 
in an auto accident on Nev\' Year's Day 1965 
while on duty with the Navy in Morocco. He 
has three children remaining. John is a self-
employed wholesale furniture representative travel­
ing Indiana and Illinois..His travels often take him 
to Decatur where he sees STEVE GRALIKER. 
He also sees our regional vice-president, MIKE 
a\RR. 
—WILLIAM .\L HICKEY, Secretary 

From the Alumni Office: 1965 "Man of the Year" honors were bestowed on STEPHEN G. GRrVLIKER CLU of Decatur by the St. Louis Agency of the Union Central Life Insurance Co. in February. Steve's "pro­duction'^ last year was in excess of one million dollars, whicli also qualified him for inembcnhip in the company's highly regarded President's Club. Word reaching this office indicates that WILLIAM MINGES, for many years located in Charleston, 
S.C. with Union Carbide, has been moved up to that Rnn's Iront office in i<cw York and put in charge of the chemical division. 
1943 
JACK WIGGINS 5125 Briggs Ave., LaCrescenta, Cal. 91014 
From the Alumni OfEce: 
Dr. FR.\NCIS J. SHORTSLEEVE was appointed recently to the newly created position of director of marketing for the mining and mctah division of Union Carbide Corp. 
Mother ^L FRANCIS BORGIA STAUDER MxV *43 and PhD '47 was installed as provincial superior of the School Sisters of Notre Dame of the St. Louis Pronnce in December. 
ROBERT F. OVERMEYER, a chemical engineer at the Mount Vernon (Ohio) plant of Continental Can Co., recently received a special award from the National Flexible Packing Assoc. The award was made to Bob in recognition of his many important contributions in the preparation of technical specifications for the production of highly specialized flexible packing materials. 
A feature article that recently appeared in the San Jose Neivs called to our attention the election of JAY E. GIBSON to the presidency of the Greater San Jose Chamber of Commerce. The former ND sprint star is resident partner of Scliuabachcr & Co., stockbrokers in San Jose. 
1944 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD 
P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
These words of appreciation arc most inadequate to thank fellow '44crs for the magnificently fine response in returning the class questionnaires. From four continents and from almost evcr>' state, they came. Some were addressed merely "Titlctown, USA" and were received without any trouble. Hotvei'er, this does result in postponing recognition to ever>'onc at this time because of the limited space allotted each class. Yet, it is a new and most delightful experience for your secretary to have ample material for several future issues. Thanks again. 
From South America, there were several replies. LARRY GOEBELER, General Electric Rep., lives in Rio dc Janeiro, Brazil, His last contact with a '44er was in June when Fr. JOE QUINN CSC 
was there with the Rosary Giisade. Two repGes 
came from Caracas, Venezuela, but it seems that 
neither CHUCK URRUELA nor BILL WOLKE 
knows the other is there. Bill is with Creole 
Petroleum Corp., %vbile Chuck is msnaging director 
of Parent Corp. (steel) and exec, veep of Ablated 
Holding Co. DICK LEON's questionnaire was 
returned from Mexico City, where he is general 
manager of a drug manufacturing concern, is 
active in Scout work and is deeply involved in 
the K. of C, 
From Asia, word was received from Fr. BILL 
GRAHAM CSC who is president of ND College 
of Dacca, East Pakistan. From Europe, JOE 
SIMONS reported that he is with Standard Oil 
(NJ), headquartered in London. 
Prcxy GEORGE 6ARISGILLO recently was ap­
pointed a partner in the law firm of Carton, Nary, 
\Vitt & Ar\-anitis. George's three-year term on the 
Alumni Board Is over and without doubt his 
leaving was most reluctant. Wc '44crs are very 
indebted to him for the excellent work he did. 
His shoes mil be difficult ones to fill. 
Six CSC Brothers returned questionnaires. Br. 
GERMAIN FADDOUL is an associate prof, and 
steward at the local house of studies at St. Ed's 
in Austin, Texas; Br. CYRIAC HAYDEN is 
prefect of discipline and science supervisor at 
Archbishop Curicy High, Miami; Br. ANDRE 
LECHTENBERG is a teacher of malh and 
chemistry at ND High, Sherman Oaks, Calif.; 
Br. GERONTIUS McCARTHY is principal of 
Monroe Cadiolic High, Monroe, Mich.; Br. EVAN 
SCHMID is secretary to the Provincial of Brothers, 
headquartering at ND; Br, PASCHAL TOMA­
SZEWSKI is guidance director, St. Joe High, 
South Bend. 
Congratulations are most appropriate to the 
BEN BRUNETTIs upon the birth of their first 
child, a daughter, Girolyn, just in time for a 
1965 tax deduction. 
A report u-as just received of the death in 
December, 1965 of the father of DR. AL 
MICHELS, Rocky River, Ohio. Our prayers and 
sympathy go out to the family. 
After FRANK VIGNOL.-\ posted the question­
naires, a letter bearing a military address was re­
ceived from him. At his age one would think it 
a mistake but It was correct. He spent his an­
nual na\-al duty at Lowry AFB studying data 
processing and computers, and, earlier, he had 
been at a sea-survi%*al school being dunked in 
Chesapeake Bay to learn survival to teach it to 
Navy men- Between these tours of duty he took 
his three sons to the Southern Cal-ND game. 
Not manv bachelors from the '44 Class remain. 
However, one is HERB 2IEGLER JR,, mfg. 
agent from Kansas City, Kan. He's active in the 
K.C. Ski Club. Another eligible, HARRY YE.-VTES, keeps abreast of things in the New York City area. A recent benedict, VINCE DUN­Cf\N, Denver, Colo., has the welcome mat out for visiting skiers. Hb recently purchased home easily cou\d be much too small. FARRELL QUINLAN does have adequate facilities because he owns and operates the Indian Cave Lodge, Sunapec, N.H, (Tlie "Black*' John Murphy's will attest to the excellence and beauty of the resort because of their stay there last summer.) Farrell, the father of four, finds time to teach in the CCD program and is active in local and state politics. 
GUS LEGEAY, a chemical engineer from Paducah, Ky., is chairman of the library board of trustees and presently is trying to rebuild the burned-out library. BOB METZLER, partner in an insurance agency with his brothers in Shawnee Mission, Kan., keeps busy through his boardships on religious, civic and business organizations. NORM .MUELLER, an engineer living in St. Louis, specializes in photography for a hobby, while JOE MURNANE, Glenview, III,, is active in ad^-anced scout work. Another Missourian, ED OLSZEWSKI, Richmond Heights, gave up flying bcduse of age. How old is that fellow classmate? BILL SCHEUCH, Huntsville, Ala., evidently feeU differently because he is with the ever-popular aerospace industry. North American Aviation. 
TED SMITH, Anderson, Ind., beer wholesaler, assures cver^'one plenty of thirst-quenching "im­bibitions" should a need arise. Who's he kidding? WALT DONNELLY, Wayne, N.J., an avid fol­lower of the stock market, suffers from a stifl neck from watching the recent market gyrations. JOHN O'ROURKE, merchandiser with Chicago's Marshall Field & Co., is a frequent campus visitor because of his son's matriculation at ND and his daughter's at St. Mary's. Another O'ROURKE, JIM, an import car dealer in Billings^ Mont., also has a son at ND, AL YOUNGHAUS, sales mgr, for Moderncote, Inc., keeps tab on thing? in New Castle, Ind. JACK McANDREWS, sales man'g^r for one of llic di\Tsions of the \"asl DuPont com­
plex, stales that he, like many of his fellow '44crs, 
enjo\-5 golf and bridge. 
BOB SCHRAMM with Esso Chemical reported 
that annually he hears from REV. BILL GR.V 
HAM, CSC, president of XD in Dacca, Pakistan. 
He alto mentioned that RAY SMITH is the god­
father of tlicir youngest and tliat JOE SIMONS 
represents Standard Oil of X.J. in London. 
JOHN VAN BENTEN. a CPA, Indianapolis, 
continued as he did ai XD lo play the organ and 
de\x)tcs lime as chairman of the Marion County 
Health & Hospital Corp. HERB CL.ARK. Wihnctte, 
fonv-arded his questionnaire from a sick bed but, 
undoubtedly, he soon was back on his job as man­
ager, textbook sales for R, R. DonncKcy & Sons, 
Inc. Herb's oldest daughter is a sophomore at St. 
Marv-'s, so the Clarks arc frequent visitors on the 
ND campus. P.\UL COLIAX.NTs hobby is collect­
ing classic cars, while JIM KANE, president. 
Lincoln Park Federal S & L. Chicago, claims his 
is work. DON BIRREX. Morton Grove. III.. 
spends his leisure sculpturing (MFA degree from 
Syracuse U. in '53) and bowling (185 average); 
02ZIE DOLAX. Dubuque. Is in his 20th year of 
*ociaI welfare work and teaching, devoting much 
lime lo parish acti\-ities and enjo>-jng camping 
with h:-: family (nine children). 
In future issues, more detailed news of DiCK 
BRYDGES. PAUL DOHR. EARL ENGLERT. 
TOM ROLFS, FR.-\NK S-AXFILIPPO. JACK 
UTZ. RABBI HYM.AX COHEN, Msgr. GEORGE 
EVANS, Fr. BILL BQLAND CSC. Fr. JOE 
GALL-AGHER CSP. Fr. JOE HAYDEN, COYNE 
CALLAHAN. DICK DOERMER. BILL HEN­
DRICK, JOHNN"i' JOHNSON. P.AT KILEY. 
BILL McNAM.ARA. TOM SCHEXX.AYDER. TED 
TOOLE, BILL WALDRON. and many others 
from whom letters and questionnaires have been 
received. Through this terrific response, our slogan 
"RISE AND SHINE I.V '69'" has taken on a 
glowing new luster. 
—JOSEPH A. .NEUFELD, Secretary 
From the Alumni Office: MATT CAMP.-VNELLA wotc in February- that he received his PhD in electrical engineering from the U. of Piiisburgh in December. Matt, who lives in Cherry Hill. Pa. with hts wife, Pat, and llieir five children, is an engineering group leader with RCVs mbsile and surface radar di\'i5ion, Moorestown. 
1945 
FRANK M. LINEMAN G.E, Co., 600 Main St., Johnson City, N.Y. 13790 
Dr. FRANK MARTIN reports in from Rockvillc 
Ccnicr, X'.Y. where he is a pediatrician. He and 
Barbara have 10 children, the oldest, Katherinc, 
graduates from high school this year. The XD 
Club of X'eW York awarded the former thin-clad 
its Scrvic .Award last year. Frank ran into our 
former St. Ed's Anncvmaic. JOE XfcLVTi^RE, 
at the Southern California game. Joe is president 
of Sieber-McInt>Te, medical products advertising 
agcnc>' in Chicago. 
Congratulations to another doctor. OWEN 
DOYLE, on his XD Centennial of Science Award. 
Owen is professor of radiologj- at Duke Medical 
Center and also practices at Greensboro, N.C. 
Another South Carolinian is JIM SCHWEICK­
ERT, chief nurse at the South Carolina State 
Hospital, Columbia. Jcannette and Jim will cele­
brate their 20tli wedding anniversar>' this year. 
They liavc four children. -_ 
A long message from the BOB RIORDAX's. Bob is director of international operations for Chcrry-Burrcl Corp. in Chicago. They arc making quite a hit in Lake Forest with their *37 Rolls-Roycc limousine—another "My Mother, Tlie Car." 
SlIKE GARRY apparently is still state treasurer of the Minnesota K. of C , since he is using their stationery. Mike saj's he is quite concerned over the national fiscal matters, but not near as much as his own at home. 
BILL BLAKE is secrctarv'-trcasurer of Blake & Conroy, 1107 Broadway, N*S'C. Bill and Patricia and their Gve children live in Garden City. BOB MAURER is president of B & B Box Co., Toledo, Ohio. The oldest of the Maurer's six, Carb, graduates from high ;chool this >-ear. 
Former Class president, JIM SCHAEFFER, is a councilman for the Borough of WoodcUfT Lake, 
N.J. The one-time South Bend Tribune police reporter b eastern sales manager for Galland-

JAMES V. CUNNINGHAM *43, a man 
committed to the dty and with long experience in its affairs, has written a book about urban neighborhood revitalization and all its physical and intangible implications. In The Re­surgent Neighborhood (Fides Pub­lishers, Inc.; $3.95 hardcover; $1.95 paperback), Jim probes the impor­tance to urban men of the neighbor­hood, the subcommunity within the expanding metropolis. 
Hcnning Mfg. Co. Rev. STANLEY RDZOK CSC 
is assistant pastor, Holy Trinity- Church in Chicago. 
Rev. DICK TIMM CSC is vice-president, Notre Dame Collrge, East Pakistan. In addition to his administrative duties, Fr. Dick lias authored a college biology- textbook used in all colleges of East Pakistan. 
Ruth and JACK MEYER*s daughter, Nanc>-, graduated from Iiigh school this past June as uill their son, Leo, tliis year. Active in Scrra Club, Jack is secrelarj- and assistant genci^jl manager of Inter-State Foundry* Co. in Indianapolis. 
JIM CLYXES, another former Class president, has resigned as Democratic county chninnan of Tompkins County, X.Y. Xow, he is spending all his time at his indoor pool. 
In true Xotre Dame tradition. Rev, BILL BE\7.VGTO.V x-isited LOU BARSOTTI's widoWy Gloria, in Memphis. Lou left six children when he died of a coronary. He was owner of the Tennessee Tobacco Co. and the O. J, BarsottI Co. The family's address is 60 Robert Dell Cove. Fr. Bill is principal of Xotre Dame High School in Chattanooga and, also, b pastor of St> Francb* Parish. Started as a Negro mbsion. the parish is 17 years old, lias 250 souls, a school with 125 children, a convent, a rectory and XO DEBT— TERRIFIC! His XD High School b to be dedicated the second week of February. It is the only Catholic high school in Chattanooga, and has an enrollment of 435 box's and girls. Good luck, Fr. Bill! 
—FRAXK M. LINEHAN, Secretary 

1946 PETER P. RICHISKI 60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 • 12 

1947 
JACK MILES 3218 Bentley Lone, South Bend, Ind, 46615 
INTRO Springtime U with us The bees arc a-biting Fourteen months hence, sirs, We'll be reuniting. 
GLB.ANINGS 

PAUL GODOLLEI \Os recently named an 
associate in the five-year-old architectural engi­
neering firm of Keenc-MacRac Associates. The 
company is in nearby Elkhart, though Paul and 
his family maintain their South Bend residence. 
Wc Iiavc had some uncertainty as to the where­
abouts of JOHN MOELLER. We had recorded a 
move to Oak Park and, yet, he was still listed as 
president of the N^D Club in Quito, Ecuador. 
We're indebted to the Provincial himself. Re\*. 
HOWARD J. KEN.VA CSC, for the follo^ving 
clarifying note; 
"Thb is a piece of information which seems 
to have escaped bolh you and the omniscient 
JIM ARMSTRONG: JOH.V MOELLER formerly 
of QuilD, Jias been a resident of Clu'cago since 
fall, 1962. He and Rosemary and their fine family 
arc at 515 S. Elmwood Ave., Oak Park, where 
I had a nice vbit with them last spring. John ts 
chief program officer, special projects. Institute of 
International Education. His two older hot's, John 
and Phil, should be ready for XD soon." 
The Alumni .Association's changc-of-address 
forms, as usual, provide some material for briefs: 
P.-\T SMID and BILL MANLY have recently 
trekked west, the former from Jersey lo Denver 
and the latter from the delightful community of 
Chappaqua to the no-less-dclightful piece of urbia 
known as Kokomo, Ind. LT. COL. JOHN HENRY 
LAUCK has been transferred from Indianapolis to 
Falls Church, Va., and Rev. WILLIA.M J. GR-V-VT 
of Buffalo has been designated *'Very Rev." 
Your secretary was one of 350 who participated 
in the "Good-bye CHx\RLlE a\LL.\HAN dinner." 
Other men of our time on hand included FRED 
ROVAI, CHICK -MAGGIOLI. BOB MICHAUD. 
JOHN McHALE, GEORGE CONNOR, and BOB 
KELLY. 
Treasurer JOE SHARP sends won! tliat the 
Cbss kitty stands at $39, and that's pretty low 
standing. We could use a shekel or two to keep 
pace with inflation. 
GUIDED MISSIVES Three letters managed to find their i>-ay lo roe: one from the reliable BR. IVAN DOLAN CSC, another from PAUL VINCENT AMES of Closlcr, X'.J., and the third from that man with more poris-of-call than a secret agent, the nomadic SAM ADELO. Brother Ivan reports: ". . . since last October I have been teaching and working at our technical school for poor boys here in Dacca town. I am kept busy with about 60 boys living in the school hostel and mih teaching and helping around the school. We, who were removed from our former mission stations at the time of the war, arc still not pennittcd to return lo same." 
Paul provides a rundown on his doings since graduation in lib maiden message to this corner: "Got an MB.A, from Harvard Business School in 1949. Xow, marketing manager for Wilbert Prod­ucts in NYC. Married Rulhmaric Derix-aux of South Orange, X.J. (a College of St. Elizabeth, 
N.J. graduate along with my sister) in 1951, and now have four children: Paul Jr., 13; Elizabeth, II; Allison, 10; and Hugh, seven. Often think of the days at ND and wbh I were back again." 
On stationer}' fumbhed by the Grand Hotel in Stockholm, Sam Adelo ^vriles: "Strange I should send you this little 'mag' from Stockholm. The publbhcr sent mc extra copies here after the issue came out in the States. Am here on legal assignment from my employer, Phillips Petroleum Co." 
The "mag" to which Sam refers is the Noi'cmber-Dcccmbcr edition of Case and Comment^ the lawyers' magazine; he authored the lead article, "Legal Translators and Translations." 
"Now, even if things do open up, I doubt that I will be sent back to Biroidakuni at present," continued Sam. "I am due to return to the Slates in June and will probably Just slay where I am imtil that time. I do hope to go back to Birol on my return from the States toward the end of the year, however. . . . " 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
CODA I'm begging you In accents solemn To do your part To fill this column. 
—JACK MILES, Secretary 

1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 Rolling Hills Rd., Clifton, NJ . 07013 
The news of the Class of M8 is rather skimpy these days. In fact, there is nothing to write about except the following items which certainly arc not the kind of news that wc Hkc to write about. 
Word has reached me that Mr. Rene Dognaux Sr., fatlier of RENE J. DOGNEAUX JR. passed away on Oct. 31. Rene is presently living at 601 
S. Ninth St., Vincenncs, Ind. On Nov. 9, ED­WARD D. BLx\KE BSCE '48 passed away and a Mass %\-as offered for the repose of his soul on Dec. 4 by REV. THOMAS J. O'DO.V.VELL CSC at ND. 
On Jan. 29, Mrs. Joan Kelly, wife of JOHN 

B. KELLY, passed away and a Mass was of­fered for her on Feb. 5 at ND. John is now living at 16633 Calne\'a, Encino, Calif. On Dec. 9, ROBERT J. LAUER BS Phy. Ed. '48 passed away, according to information received from bis wife, Mrs. Robert J. Lauer of P.O. Box 367, Orleans, Oniano, Canada. 
I am sure that each member of the Class of '48 who knew these classmates and their families will be saddened by these deaths. Surely they would appreciate an expression of condolence from their friends in our Class. 
In addition to these forcmcntioned items the only otiier infonnation being received is a month­ly envelope from the Atunini Office bulging with change of address notices. Keeping track of these changes is a problem in itself and makes me wonder if anyone is staying in one spot long enough lo get a copy of the .\LUMNUS to know whether or not the Class of '48 has a column. I'm afraid our audience penetration is not too strong, because in meeting some classmates they are surprised to learn I am the Class secretary* and have been so designated for almost three years. Just shows that maybe the .ALUMNUS Is getting set aside with some of the other booklets, catalogs, coupon offers, etc. that come in the mail. 
—GEORGE J. KEENAN, Secretary 

From the Alumni Office: 
A recent letter trom JOSEPH V. \VILCOX indicated that the "obedient servant—me" now has a law firm in Albion, Mich, consisting of three Notre Dame men. Most recent to join tlie office is ^L PAUL POLLARD LLB '64 who now becomes an associate in the established partner­ship of Wilcox and CHARLES A. ROBISON LLB '61. 
PAUL A. THEIS, public relations director of the Republican Congressional Committee, took on an additional assignment recently in keeping the US informed of the political doings in Wash­ington and elsewhere. His new project is that of 
co-editor of Who's Who in American Politics. 
1949 
LEO L. WESLEY 155 Driftwood Lane, Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
From the Alumni Office: 
A letter postmarked Danbur>% Conn, brought word that LEONARD A. DENTE now is an assistant professor in the social science department at Danbury State College. His specialty is eco­nomics. 
1950 
JOHN W. THORNTON 4400 Monserrate St., CoralGables,Fla. 33146 
I have received already some of tht yellow postcards inserted in the January-February 1966 ALUMNUS magazine and hope that you (or your wives) who have not done so, will save that card, fill it out and mail it to me. 
JIM DRENNAN of Moraga, Calif, has four fine children: Tcrri, Kathleen, Suzanne and now a boy, Joseph, bom last November. WILLI.\M J. 
MURPHY, father of six boys and two girls, is president and treasurer of the Murphy Rubber and Supply Co. in Chicago, selling safety products for industry and residing at 1051G S. Prospect Ave., Chicago. DON SCHULTHEIS is now pro­duction manager of an eastern division pbnt of Kawneer, itself a division of American Metal Climax, Inc., in Bloomsburg, Pa. After having been instrumental in the design and erection of the plant, he is living on a beautiful mountain­side by the Susquehanna River with Sally and their five children. 
JOHN HERR Is now regional director of General Business Services in Davenport, Iowa, specializing in managerial consulting and tax scnice. He is blessed with a ivonderful wife and four ^vonderful children. He Invites you all to visit on the way through. 
AR.\L-\ND "D.\G" D'.AGOSTINO and hU wife, formerly Flo Lawless, paid us a visit in January. From them wc learned that JOHN KELLY and his wife (formerly Dolores Dennis) and the KEN DONAHUEs have maintained their prowess at bridge: and that Helen (Helen Marie Crecgan) and VINCE CUNNINGHA^f with seven fine children, and Dorothy and JOHN EVANS, Newton, Mass., and the D'Agostinos had a January NYC reunion, discussing, among other things our February, 1950 retreat at Geihsemane. 
Fr. DON DERE.\UVEAUX lias remained at Gellisemane since our junior year. Mary (formerly Mary \tudd} and Jack live in the Washington, 
O.C. area, where Jack is a special agent in the FBI headquarters. Marge (fonnerly Marge Mc-Keown) and DICK DIGAN are residing in N^C; Dag D'Agostino is now county attorney for Aforrts County, N.J., which contains 39 municipalities. 
Pat (formerly Pat Yaste) and ART FRERICKS are in Ft. Wayne, Ind., happily reporting their fifth adoption and the building of their new home. Art is president of the Diocesan Board of Catholic Charities as well as being fully occupied with his insurance agency. 
I liave received some information from the ND Club of Northern New Jersey through JIM SEBOLD, now with Auchinloss, Parker and Red-path, member of New York Stock Exchange. Jim lives in Summit. ART BOTTIE is in Harrington Park. JOE BROTHY is a developmental engineer with US Rubber in Passaic. RON a\LLr\NAN is a chief industrial engineer with Tung-Sol Electric. Inc., in NcvvTirk. ALFRED Cr\MPO is sales engi­neer with Conoflow Corp. in Fort Lee. JOHN CRANE is vice-president of Huntley and Hurley, graphic designers for marketing, in New Brunswick. BILL DO.XOV.AN is superintendent of labor relations. General Motors Auto .-Vssembly, in Linden. JIM FITZSIMMONS is owner and manager of 
J. J. Fitzsimmons Jr. Insurance, Inc., in Newark. JOHN GALLAGHER is with Mutual Life of New York in Neu-ark. JOHN GAVAN Is vice president of an advertising agenc>', Dancer^FItzgenild-SampIc, Inc., in NYC. 
JIM SEBOLD also sent the following informa­tion. PETE GROSS is section chief in the materials laboratory of Western Instruments in Newark. BOB JOYCE is vice-president and owner of John E. Joyce, Inc., mechanical contractors in Newark. 
ELLIOTT KAMEN is a phywdst, ITT. Federal Labs, research and manufacturing, Nutley. £D LEIGHTON is process safety deugn engineer of HofTman-LaRochc Phaimaccutical, Nutley. JACK McGOLDRICK is manager of employee infomu­tion, American Can Co. in Chatsam. BOB McKEE is office manager of Charles Pfizer & Co., manu­facturing chemists, Clifton. AL McNULTV" is with US Rubber in Woodsldc. JOHN NOLAN is superintendent of construction, Bryan Construction Co. in North Arlington. GEORGE REDGATE is sales engineer with G. A. Feld Co. in NYC. JOE STERETT b account executive with Merrill, Lynch, ct al., stockbrokers in Paramus. FRANK THORN is an editor-free-lance writer of the New York Herald Tribune in NYC. PETE WALSH is president of Smith-Walsh Co. in South Orange. 
BOB SCHEELE has changed residence from Milan, Italy, to Chicago. JOHN HENNESSY 'is now In Auburn, N.Y. and BOB BOSLER is with the US Air Force in Harbor City, Calif. PETE TOMASHEK is in Denver; FRANK WHALEN in Pittsburgh; JOHN CUMMINGS in Cincinnati; TOM VAIL in Somerset. N.J.; RON MYRTER in Drexel Hill, Pa.; DEX BERNHARDT with Great Southern Life Insurance Co. In Woodland Hills, Calif.; JERRY BEGLEY in Sparta, N.J.; FATHER TOM NINNEMAN in LaCrossc, Wis.; ED KELLY of Kelly's Kombcef is now at 10500 
S. Talman Ave., Chicago. DR. TOM O'TOOLE is in Cliula Vista, CaliL; BOB ROHLING in Omaha; and PAT PLUNKETT is in Houston. For all all-night bridge players, CHARLIE MOUCH is now at 422 Country Club Blvd., Slidcll, La. 
I had a lovely note from Pat and JACK COURTNEY ivlio now have four boys and two girls. Jack is with Avis Industrial Corp. as sales manager of its Central Fibre Di%*. In Chelsea. Mich., but still lives in Dearborn. If you are near the summer home of Jack's father in Long Beach. Ind., on a football weekend, you certainly would be welcome to add to the fun as ha%'e Dolly and BOB ROHLING of Omaha, Nancy and BILL EGGERS from St. Louis, Shirlev and BILL KEN­NEDY from Oak Park, Pat and HUGH MULLI­GA.V from Hinsdale, Xfary and JACK DO.NNEL­LY from Jackson, Mich., Barb and JOHN NEIS from Detroit, Shirlev and JIM CREAMER, Gloria and JOHN TERRY. Fran and TOM McHALE. JOE PRESTON, and even JI.M HOLW.AY, when be comes to the northern hemisphere. 
Our most ferx'cnt prayers are with BOB L.ALLY and his family for the loss of his wife. —JOHN W. THORNTON, President 
1951 
ROBERT KLINGENBERGER 
3405 Thames Dr. Fort Wayne, Ind. 46805 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 -12 
FROM ALL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, Class Agents of the Annual Alumni Fund program traveled to attend the February one-day meeting. These included: Henry B. Surkamp '46 from St. Louis; Walter L. Fleming Jr. '40 from Dallas; William V. Cuddy '52 from White Plains, N.Y.; and Louis J. Hnske '19 from Jacksonville, Fla. 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
From the Alumnt Office: 
In Januar>-, DICK COURY signed a conrract with the U. of Southern California to be their new defensive football coach. For nine years he was coacli and athletic modcniior at Maler Dei High School in Santa Ana, Calif, where he com­piled a Roclinc-Iikc record of 85-9-5. 
.•VNDREW M. FAIRLIE JR. ^.-as one of thrte men named by B. F. Goodrich Corp- in Fcbniayy as dc\'cIopment scientists at the firm's development center in Avon Lake, Ohio. 
T~hc Pittsburgh election results last November included the surprise victory- by a political unknown named PETER F. FL.MIER'n'. In his Brst trip to the post, Pete outran a former Pittsburgh mayor and four other Democratic hopefuls to Jead the City ticket. At 41, tlic former assistant district attomex' has become tlie >-oungcst member of the city council. 
1952 
HARRY L. BUCH 600 Board of Trade BIdg., Wheeling, W. Va. 26000 
From the Alumni Office: 
Dr. LA\VRE.VCE MONACO MS'52 PiiD'54 in Februar>- was appointed dean of the collegiate technical division at Duichrss Community College in Pooghkeepsie. His appointment effective Sep­tember 1, LaiT>' will assume the administration and super^'ision of the faculty and programs of the di\Tsion. 
In Januarv-, GRA^•T A. FELDMAN* JR. assumed the position of securities anah-st for fixed-income investments with the Minnesota Stale Board of Invcsimcnl at Su Paul. Joining tJic board last July, Grant has been primarily responsible for the pur­chases and sales of US government obligations and other short-term securities. 
University Microfilms, Inc. (UMI) of Ann Arbor, Mich, announced in Januarv the appoint­ment of ROBERT H. RUBERY as director of administrative services, a ncvv position in w'hicii Bob will be responsible for systems and procedures, data processing, purchasing and other related functions. 
JAMES X. TRANT received an appointment 
in December to the Clias. Pfizer & Co.'s commercial 
development dcpt. of the industrial chemicals^ 
plastics and plasticizcrs division. 
In February-, JOHN H. ROSS uas elected 
secrctar)' of the Vanadium Corp. of America, a 
producer of alloying materials for tiic iron, steel, 
aluminum and titanium indtistries, as well as a 
manufacturer of vanadium-based chemicals, John 
who lives in Hasbrouck Heights, X.J. with his 
u-ife and nine cliildren, formcriy was sccrctarj- of 
the Nctt- York Stock Exciiange. 
1953 — 
DAVID A. McELVAIN 
2328 Alexander Terrace, 
Homewood, III. 60430 
Let me start with an urgent appeal to each and 
every' One of yoa to favor your correspondent with 
ne%« about yourself and anv other classmates. 
HELP! 
The recent mailbag, although skimpy, has re­
vealed some infonnauon about a few classmates 
which I am pleased to report: Rc\'. S, L. 
MUCCILLI is serving as a cliaplain at the US 
Coast Guard Recruit Training Center at Cape 
May, N.J. Father would like to know the where­
abouts of the following MD's of '53: JIM RONAN, 
VINCE TULLY, JOHN MURR.AY and JOHN 
MAKER. A recent note from TOM CONLEY 
sajs that he is currently stationed at the Air Force 
Axionics Lab, W-PAFB, Ohio, as project engineer. 
Tom is a captain in the US.\F, and received his 
AtA in engineering management at the U. of 
Chicago in September, 19&4-. 
DICK DOUGLAS now resides in Wilmcite, III. 
witli his wife and two children (soon to be a 
third). Dick was transferred from St. Louis by 
Hone>*\vell, and is now branch manager in Chicago. 
TOM REEDY forwarded a nc\«paper article 
about JOHN RONCONE, who was formcriy the 
Illinois State Securities Commissioner. John was 
badly beaten in an attempted robber}' in Spring­
field, in tvhich he was attacked by three men. 
Hope you have a speedy recoverj', John. Received 
a note from JOHN AfacINNES at Christmas, 
reporting of his work as a lay mission helper in 
Uganda. John ha5 Just completed Im second year 
of teaching at St. Mary's Seminar}'. 
How about the rest of you dropping me a card 
28 

so tliat I may avoid the abject shame of a blank page in the next issue? —D.-WID A. McELVAIN, Secretary 
From the Alumni Office: Tut) members of the Class were among those selected for inclusion in the 1966 edition of Oat­
standins Young Men of America. JOHN F. FINK 
and REGIS F. X. PHILBIN will be found in this year's biographical compilation sponsored by the Montgomerj', Ala. Junior Chamber of Commerce. 
Tlie top au-ard of the Catholic Big Brothers of Toledo was given in Januar>' to ROBERT P. O'NEILL, The Big Broihcr o! the Year Aw^ard was presented to Bob by Bishop George J. Rchring for his work in the organization in the last eight years. He and his wife, Nanc>*, have three children —all adopted. 
VS Navy Lt. Cmdr. JON C. ifcKENZIE from Kcnmare, N.D. became commanding officer in December of the US Na\-al Facilitj-, American Embass>' in Nicosia. Cyprus. 
JOHN E. PORT.-\, formcriy of South Bend, was appointed a vice-president in December of the First National City Bank of New York. He is with the bank's national division in the centra] Atlantic district. John, his wife and three children live in Darien, Conn. 
1954­
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 
2] Signal Hilt Blvd., E. St. Louis, 111. 62203 
Hello there! Would you believe I received .three letters since the last article? Would you believe two? One? If you count notes on backs of Christmas cards, then I'm in good shape. But Christmas comes only once a year and the ALUMNUS comes out sbc times a year, so lend. a hand. 
Reading the Belletille, 111. newspaper last evening 
(yes I can read), I came across the follouing: 
"DONALD P. BEDEL, 106 Marbn Dr., has 
received a doctor of philosophy degree in business 

administration from St. Louis U." Don is an 
assistant professor at Southern Illinois U., Edwards­
viJIc. 
Even an old dog can learn new tricks. DICK 
^L\RTIN makes the altar scene on April 16 with 
Miss Patricia Ruth Caldwell. Your best wishes 
will reach him at 736 Omandale Dr. Nashville, 
Tcnn. 37204. Diet keeps pretty well in touch. He 
reports that both the JIM GREENWELLs and 
CILXRLIE SPICKAs had sons born a diy apsrt 
last October. That makes five apiece. BILL FAI­
MON and family have recently moved into a new 
home at 6705 Roone>' Court. Na-hvillc. Dick ran 
into JERRY KEATING while the latter u-as visit­
ing Nashville /or Scars, Roebuck and Co. JERRY 
KIEFER has been transferred to Atlanta; PETE 
REGAN and SPARKY STODDARD are still hold­
ing fast in New JcrTsej-, while BILL STREETER 
is in Miami. 
The Dayton, Ohio Rotary welcomed (would you 
believe Lions Club?) JOHN "J.C." DONAHER 
JR to Dayton in December. J.C. is the executive 
director, Hospital Planning Council of the Greater 
Miami Valley. He received a master's degree of 
public health from the U. of Pittsburgh in 1959. 
J.C. and wife, Susan, have four children—two 
boys and two girls. JIM ZAVATONE, 81 Chester Place, Englewood, 
N.J. is vrith Federal Paper Board in Bogala, N.J. in charge of the mechanical packaging dcpt. He's been in New Jersey now for three years. His vvife, Mary Kay, presented Iiim with Sumbcr One Son, Alexander, Dec, I. 
JOSEPH P. COSGROVE sent his regular, 12­year letter just in time to meet this deadline. Joe left ND in January '54 and went to work for the Air Force at Wriglit Field. Joe then put three years in with the Navj- after OCS and was re­leased from active duty in 1958. Joe finally went with Boeing's vertol division in 1961, spent some time in Washington, D.C., and now he is manager of ndi-anccd projects at Boeing's home office. Joe's address is 420 Pinebrook Dr., Media, Pa. Joe married the former Mary C. Lagos from Oak Hill, 
W. Va. In October, I96I. Then came three children, and the sadness v«'hen Amy died in an automobile accident. Our deepest sj-mpathy. Erin ^^•as bom on Nov. 5, 1965 a few weeks after Joe and Marj' went to the Army-ND game. Joe's one complaint, common to us all, is too large a mortgage. Don't wonr>', Joe- Somehow the Great Society will save la all. Whew! Twelve years is too long, Joe. 
Now that I'm happily employed by Afoosanto 

JOE BERTRAND '54: 
For his devotion and untiring work toward the betterment of the community, Joseph G. Bertrand '54 was selected one of Chicagoland's 10 outstanding young men in 1965. 
The annual award, presented last September to top young leaders for their business, professional and civic contributions, was made to Joe in a citation reading, "Joseph G. Ber­trand . . .a driving force in count-Jess civic, youth, political and reli­gious organizations... an exemplary leader in his community and city." 
He has been recognized all along as just such a young man. It became obvious in 1958, when Joe started v/ork with the Cook County depart-
Co., it may be a little Imprudent 10 mention Union 
Carbide—but I'll chance It. That's where ole 
WEBB ARCEXEAUX cams his bread. Webb and 
Barbara have two bo}-s and live in Charleston, W. 
Va. where Webb is a project engineer. Webb 
received his master's degree from MIT. U'cbb and 
family have just finished a 16-month tour of duty 
in v\-ay out Texas City. Welcome back. 
CAPT. FRANK WIS.VESKI USAF, Mary and 
'*Mikc and Pat" have settled down for a three-
year tour In Colorado Springs (2418 ^Varwicfc 
Lane). Had a short note from BOB PODEN and 
"RoRo*' confirming their Intentions to get to the 
reunion party after the Purdue game (Sept. 24). 
Sce you there! 
DICK £HR has put his wings on again and 
joined American Airlines. By nov%', he's living out 
of O'Harc Field In Chicago. Two other classmates 
are also flving for American—ED MILOTA and 
JERRY POST. 
JACK PITTAS and Elaine arc expecting number 
seven In June- We missed you on Turkey Day. 
old buddy. Tonic picked up the pen for CHRIS 
MALONE to assure us all v\-as vwll vrith the eight 
Malones at Christmas time. Chris is turning grey 
coaching h'ttle league football. ED MADIGAN 
made his yearly report on California. RAY 
TILLEV is still—would you believe it? Get smart! 
—a bachelor and now sports a Beverly Hills 
address. (2001 Benedict Canyon Dr.) Ed saw 
LARRY CORBETT, who was on his vray to \1et 
Nam, and also wns visited by MICK MORAN 
during the summer. 
We received a real newsy letter from BOB 
RAYMOND. Bob is with Universal Oil Products 
Co., presently in England. His address is Ashley 
Lodge, Trcadwell Rd., Epson Downs, Surrey, 
Engbnd. Thc}' live about a half mile from the 
famous Epsom Dovvns Racecourse and are enjoy­
ing merry old England to the limit. Bob and Joyce 
have two bo>'S and are expecting another blessing 
in the fall. 
That's it! Cards all gone. Help! Call if you're 
In town and vvritc if j^ou get work. 
—MILTON J. BEAUDLNE, Secretary 

From the Alumni Office: 
Thc Distinguished Service Award presented an­
nually by the Greenwich, Conn. Junior Chamber 
of Commerce v*ent to Dr. JOHN QUEENAN In 
January. John is engaged in the practice of ob­
stetrics and gynecology In Greenwich and, currently, 
is an associate attending ph}*5ician in this depart­
ment at Greenvrich Hospital. 
Dr. LIONEL V. BALDWIN was named dean of 
thc College of Engineering at Colorado State U-
in Januar}*. Lionel has held the position on an 
acting basis sitice July I, 1964. He has been at 
CSU since September, 1961 as an associate pro­
fessor of civil engineering and was advanced to 
full professor in July 1965. 
Rev. R.AYMOND ROSELIEP PhD '54 had his 
third manuscript publbhed last fall by W. W. 
Norton and Co., and it just may become a Pulitzer 
Prize winner. In Love Makes the Atr Light, Fr. 
Roseliep presents 150 of his own poems that deal uith love in Its various manifestations In life and death. Author of two previously-published titles, 
The Linen Bands and The Small Rain, Fr. Roseliep 
teaches at Loras College in Dubuque. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

becomes all-chicagoan 
ment of public aid, working as a case worker in the Kenwood district of­fice. 
During this time, Joe began to take an interest in youth. Devoting time and energy toward the social improvement of his south-side neigh­borhood, he felt the key to upgrad­ing Negroes was in encouraging ath­letic programs. As a result, he insti­tuted Chicago's Third Ward athletic program and helped to activate the Crane Junior College and West Side Social Agency cooperative volunteer program. 
A native of Biloxi, Miss., Joe 
moved to Chicago at an early age. 
He attended St. Elizabeth's High 
1955 
PAUL FULLMER 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago, III. 60645 
My bride doesn't think yours truly ("Old Big ifouih'^) can get cvcr>'thing m these new ab­breviated columns (I had more left over from the Jasi column than was printed!)- So let's get to the news. 
First of all, hats off to the committee of our Soph Cotillion back in 1952. Remember how the Schotastic jabbed: *'The sophomores have Jimmy Palmer for the Cotillion . . . Who is Jimmy Palmer?" Well, for the infonnatton of committee­men TOM McIXTOSH, GORDON GOETE­MAXX, Mx\NUEL VILLAZOX. JIM BARRY, DICK MALESARDI, JIM HESBURGH. JOHN 0'ME^\R.'\, ED DARGIS, JOHX AVEITHERS, and JIM 0'SIIE.-\, Jimmy "Dancing Shoes" Palmer is appearing here at the Hilton Hotel. You guj-s were just 15 years ahead of the world! 
TOM WELLY gets credit for tlic letter of the cycle. Tom, a classmate in the Department of Journalism, really has gone astray. He writes that he has opened a franchise operation in the Toledo area called World Wide Dictation Scr\-ice. (Sounds like a front for something, Tom.) In addition, Tom also is opening an employment agency. "This is a far cr>' from our journalism da>'s together and my advertising and sales experience at Owens-Coming Fiberslas. However, the spirit of free enterprise caught up with me and I am greatly enjoying the experience." Tom has four children, now all in school. ("I'm beginning to feel aptly described as the 'old man.* ") Tom lives at 2043 Mt. Vernon Ave., Toledo. 
The mother of RANDY CARLL ^ras the first to use the new reply card included in the last issue (Use it, they save you stationery*!). She reports that Randy and his wife now h've at 6107 Mustang Place, Rivcrdalc, Md. Randy recently completed his communications engineering course at Monterrey, Mexico. He's a captain in the Marine Corps. 
Here's the latest address I have for WALT CABRAL who was heading for Vict Nam after the Reunion in June. It's Hqs. US.ASCV (P4-2500), APO San Francisco, 96307. I'm sure he'd enjoy getting a letter from one of the old ND gang. Incidentally, Walt is a captain. Lt. PAUL HART­MAN can be reached through MCB-5, FPO, San Francisco. 96601. Lt. GENE LUND recently moved to 3505-14th St., Gulfport, Miss., after duty at San Diego. 
JIM NIEDERRTTER wrote to say that he heard from DICK GLENNON thru the column. Dick is living in Morristown, N.J. and is fiying in "the friendly skies of United." He has two children. Dick and family live at 114 Franklin St., Building 5, Apt. 2B, Morristown. Jim saj-s I get a drink as a commission for getting them back in touch. I may be loaded at the football reunion if all you other guys pay off! Remember, this year we get together after the home opener with Purdue (grrr!) at the Morris Inn. 
You can't say I'm not ]o>-aI. I just bought a new car from PAT SHEEHAN and placed t!ic 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
School where he was an outstanding basketball player and gained the admiration of Johnny Jordan — then head coach at Mt. Carmel — who would soon become his head mentor at Notre Dame. 
The two-time All-American grad­uated from ND in 1954, and then attended its law school for two years. A two-year hitch in the Army followed. 
From 1963 to 1965 Joe was direc­
tor of sales for the Demert and 
Dougherty Co., and now works as 
a sales representative for Better 
Brands of Illinois. Joe, his wife, 
Joan, and their five children reside 
at 7825 S. Drexel in Chicago. 
insurance with XEAL HALLORAN. They're get­
ting rich and I'm bleeding. 
Our two great winter sportsmen, DICK BEE-
AfAN and MIKE KELLY, found out they nou­
arc middle-aged. Some didn't believe it (I do, 
Dick), but "Sam" sprained his thumb on the 
hoop in a little basketball game. Kelly, who is 
a vcr>* clever fellow, got smashed on the toboggan 
hilts and spent more than a month with his teg 
in a cast. Our cold spell, however, soothed the 
pain. (He's in the fuel oil business!) I got a 
call from my old roomie, TOM DORWIN, when 
he was in from Texas (8121 Ripplewood, .Austin) 
for a sales meeting, and he said that his Christmas 
ski-fun up here had been rained out. Why don't 
more of you guys give me a buzz when yon come 
thru tov^ii? I'm in the book. I can remember 
when DR. JOHN RYAN and I went up to Tom's 
house in Wisconsin for a little ski time. I was 
lucky to get John home in one piece. He thought 
he "-as Billy Kidd. 
JIM GRIFFIN, who is handling most of the libel and slander cases resulting from my reunion column, welcomed another boy to the household. He and Bunni now have four boj-s and a girl. FIi/\NK LOLL! also had a boy. JI.M EHRET's first is a giri. He's TOM CVREY's brothcr-in-k»w. 
GEORGE MEYERS, another of our bachelors with big money to throw* around, is in the ranch­ing business u-ith Chico Maki, the Black Hawk star. BOB WING sa>-s that George tias one of the fanciest riding outfits that you ever have seen for these frosty nights ^vhcn he goes out to the "heated, indoor ring" to ride his horses. The "stable" gets shipped up to Canada come spring. "Afoose," RUSS TOOHEY and RO.V AUER, ^rill be on hand, I'm sure, to give George the raK­berrics. 
Many thanks to all those who sent Christmas cards. I wbh all of you would include me this year and add a note so that I can keep current on the whole class. Enjoyed the cards from DICK CONNELLY, JERRY HUGHES, JACK FLYNN, JOE DALEY, MARTY CULHANE, FRANK BURKE, FR.\NK MAIER, TOM a\REY, JOE HEGNER, JOHN O'MEARA, BILL McLAIX. JERRY BRANSFIELD, ED RYAN, TIM DEVEREUX, JOHN WEITHERS, DICK BURKE, JOE SASSANO, STEVE REBORA, TOM 0'^LAL­LEY, FRANK LOLLI, TOM H.\YES, MIKE WARD, DAVE COHEN, TOM IGLESKI, GEORGE SHELTON, PAT DI PASQU.ALE, JOHN BENDEL, and DICK BEE^fAN. 
BILL FEURY's wife attached a nice note-Bill is now supervisor of qualit>- control from the elc\'ator division of Westinghouse. Bill and Mar>* have been married eight years and liave five children. They live at 2110 ifeadow\iew Rd., Westfield, N.J. DR. AMEEL RASHID wrote to say that he u-as sorry to have missed the Reunion, but his second son ^^•as born at that time, DON HANISCH also said that he hated to miss the Reunion. He's still employed as a stockbroker In Tulsa. They just welcomed a baby boy at 5765 E. 30ih St. 
FATHER JOE O'DONNELL had a beautiful card. He managed to spend a few days in Chi town u-ith his family over Christmas. JOE CONNOLLY'S bride, Susan, did the writing. She reports that Joe is assistant to the director of the metals 
division of the .Arthur G. McKcc Co. He's doing 
a lot of technical writing. They were in for the 
Northwestern game. JOE MADIGAN sent his 
Irish best to the entire ckiss. JIM BERGQUIST 
used hb card to inform us that he hoped to be 
at Northwestern soon to take his final exam for 
a doctorate in history. His dissertation has been 
submitted and read. FATHER MIKE DUCEY 
sent greetings from India. If any of you would 
like to send Mike donations for the Jesuit mission 
work in India, it should be sent through the 
director's office at 1114 S. May St., Chicago. It 
isn't safe to send checks directly to India. 
.My old Creighton budd>-, BOB BROWN, 
dropped me a nice note from the Omaha National 
Bank, where he is assistant trust officer. Prior to 
joining the bank five years ago, he practiced law 
in Omaha. Bob was married in 1957 and has two 
daughters. "Other members of our class still in 
Omaha include WARREN YOUNGSTROM, whom 
I see occasionally; TOM KINSLER, who is selling 
securities for Kirkpatrick Pettis, a local invest­
ment firm; and EMMET ROOT, who is in the 
wholesale furniture business." 
Thanks for the nice letter. Bob, and let's hear 
from some more of you guys (and gals) so that 
I can keep this column hopping! 
—PAUL FULLMER, Secretary 

1956 — 
ALVIN D. VITT 
4 Windrush Creek W., 
St. Louis, Mo. 63141 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n '12 
FATHER DAVE MAX sends New Year's greet­ings to classmates and their families. He is now serving as assistant director of Catholic Social Sen-ices, Box 13145, Wichita, Kan. 67213. WhUe in Washington last year for giaduatc studies at Catholic U., Fr. Dave visited CAS TAYLOR in Cumberland, Md. Cas and wife, Polly, have two sons, Dave and Brendan. Cas operates a restaurant-lounge and adjoining package store in Cumberland. Cas "cooked up" a long-distance conference call with him and Fr. Dave in Cumbcrbnd, ED SEXAUER in Columbia, S.C. and BILL HARRINGTON in California. Ed reports he's still a bachelor and doing television production in Columbia. Our prayerful condolences to Ed on the death of his mother last June. Bill has joined the ranks of the married and has left Jctscy's shores for the Golden West. How's this for keeping the Class together? Father Dave rcporU that his sister's good friend at Rosary College, Jane Walsh of LaSallc, 111., married PAUL BERRETTINI. Paul and Jane live in Dixon, 111. Further, another Rosary College class­mate, Kay I'Anson of Salem, HI., married PAUL KAMSCHULTE. To top it all off, RAY LEMEK's sister-in-law was Fr. Dave's sister's roommate at Rosary College 
JOHN PHELAN is in his seventh year on the 
faculty of Madison (III.) Senior High School and 
is a \'icc-prcsidcnt of the ND Club of St. Louis. 
John and wife, Helen, have two young daughters. 
John spent last summer in Minnesota doing summer 
camp counseling. While there, he x-isitcd AL 
ALFONSUS. Al, his wife, and two children arc 
back in the Twin Cities area after a stint in 
Waterloo, Iowa. John abo has seen Dr. FRANK 
CICIARELLI lately. Frank spent his rcsidencj* 
at Ma>-o Clinic He and his wife now reside in 
Springheld, 111. where Frank specializes in pa­
thology*. Recently Fr. Dave met a personable 
Jesuit, Fr, \Valt McCaule\-, and discovered lie's 
the older brother of MART\' McCAULEY. Marty 
is married and lias one cliild. He recently left 
Toledo, Ohio to live in Aico, N.J. 
BILL WARREN (915 First -N'alional BIdg., 
Tulsa, Okla. 74103) sent me a card addressed lo 
Uic Warren: from RAY KRAE.MER. The cirxl 
pictures the sandy beach and beautiful blue w-aicr 
at Rio de Janeiro where Ray lias been since June 
1962; but no mention of what Ray's doing there, 
altliough I presume he's with a US company's 
Brazil branch (Rua General Vcnancio Florcs, 
Gros, Apt. 202, Lc Blon Rio de Janeiro, G.B., 
Brazil). Anyone know? TOM POWERS, vice 
president of Consolidated .American Senices, Inc. 
wsiled Bill in Tulsa early in February. The 
Powerscs live in Los Angeles with their three 
children. Anyone hear from either of Tom's 
roommates, JOHN DEASY or GENE BRENNAN? 
^^KE MOONEY was orrlaincd, REV. P.AT­
RICK ^^CHAEL MOONEY, Ortlcr of Friars 
Minor, by the BLshop of Springfield, III. on Jan. 9 
in TcntopoUs, 111. The following Sunday in 
Indianapolis, Fr. Mike's family and many friends 
participated in liis First Solemn Mass. I know 
that all the Class shares with me in wishing you, 
Mike, our sinccrcst congratulations! May you 
remember us in your prayers. 
If you haven't marked your calendar for our lOtli 
Keunion, June 10-12—do it now! Sec you then. 
—.AL VITT, Socretarj­
from the .Alumni Office: 
At the end of Marcli, Lt- ROBERT K. 
DULLER, a member of the US Navy's Ciril 
Engineer Corps, completed a six-month tour at 
Christ Church, New Zealand where he was public 
•works
 officer for Antarctic support actirilies, more 

•widely
 knouT) as the Navy's "Operation Deep Freeze." 


In Dcccinber, ERNEST T. MUR.ATA w-as named <ashicr for Hawaii National Bank. Formerly the bank's comptroller, Ernest is a member of the Honolulu Japanese Junior Chamber of Commerce and is president of Citizens Banders of Hawaii. 
1957 
JOHN P. McMEEL 
30 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10017 
It w:as good to hear from JACK SOUCY and learn of his recent activities. Jack, who for many years led the ''bachelor brigade," was caught in a weak moment and married Patricia "Tish" Callison last July in Oconoinowoc, Wis. Gads, our poor doctor classmates. Jack and his bride toured Europe for eight weeks before returning to settle in Cleburne, Tex. But before Cleburne Jack also managed to finish his residency in Internal medicine in Los .Angeles. Congrats, all the uray around. 
Jack reports lliat BILL GROG.AN is back in Milwaukee working uith Allis Chalmers , . . BOB GRIFFIN is now president of Indian Arclicry Co. in Evansvillc, Ind. Bob also attended the great event in Oconomowoc. ThinUng of tliat city, I wonder how our good friend PAT SNIDER is coming along these daj-s. Let's hear, Pat . . . continuing with Jack . . . BILL ALLEN received his master's in business from the U. of Utah and is one of the leading citizens of Salt Lake City, Bill b papa lo one with another on the way . . . BOB DESMOND is a general practitioner in Santa Rosa, Calif, (doctor, tltat is) and lias delivered two bov-s and a giri for the Desmond family. 
Along the doctor trail Wc learn that MrVRSiLALL CATANZAR O is in Radiology- residency* at St. Louis Hospital in St. Louis, Mo. Speaking of St. Louis, word has it that our good friend JACK CROWLEY has really clicked vrith his owTi business. A former IBM man, he now is operating an employment agency which specializes in pbcing these human computers in various positions through­out the dty. This word readied us via JERRY BECHERT. If wrong, get Jeny. If correct, our Congrats, you devil . . . One more doctor—good friend LARRY COOKE who is in residency- at the 
V. A. Hospital in Dalbs, is specializing in internal medicine. The Cookes are proud parents 

of one boy and expecting another in May . . . 
tlianks a million Jack for all the news. You arc 
in the distinct minority of those who arc interested 
in keeping this column alive. 
.Also, my congrats and thanks to RICH J.ACOB 

who fired the following our way . . . Rich and 
Dot were married almost four years ago and have 
been blessed vrith identical twin boys. He is 
practicing law in Pittsburgh after having practiced 
a little over a year in Baltimore. The Jacobs make 
up a powerful combine in the Steel City vrith Kidi 
joining forces with his father and brother. . . lie 
goes on to rejiort tliat D.AN BEGGY made the 
same mistake as JOHN H.AMMETT and married 
a "young lovely" last January. Dan is enjoying the 
private practice of lav*' while becoming a fantastic 
golfer. Rich reports tliat Dan is "a 16 now." 
^IIKE BOYLE should be one of the leading family 
men of the Class. Mike and Kay now have five. 
On top of alt this he lias time to practice a little 
law . . . JACK SHEEDY vrill sell you anything, 
in the insurance line that is. Jack is raising two 
future 5^00,000 quarterbacks. Classes of '85 and 
'86 . . , MIKE CANTANZARO is an adminis­
trator vrith Westinghousc Electric. Since returning 
from Baltimore he has taken and passed the Pa. 
bar exams giving him the right to practice in both 
states. But this does not suffice, for now Mike 
wishes to add MD to his name and make money 
like Soucy and ihc gang -. .More doctors (bring 
on Medicare) these being RON HER\L\N, JIM 
WALSH and JACK .XHNARD but Rich could not 
report just where they arc located. How about it?? 
DON GERHARDT is In Baltimore and married 

to a beautiful Southern lass. Last report gave them 
one in the "Offspring" ledger . . . VINCE 
DOOLEY and his wife, BobbI, were in from 
Cleveland for the Bcggy wedding. Mnce is teaching 
at a high school in Cleveland and is also the foot­
ball coach. Look out, Ara!!! Tliank you Rich. 
Believe me, you make this job a lot easier and it 
is much appreciated. 
Word of changes in location lias been received 

and we would like to Iiear from the following on 
tlieir new stations of life. Such as JOHN BOVERI 
from Chicago to Arlington, Va. . . . MAURICE 
MAYN.ARD from Savannah to Kalonah, N.Y- . . . 
JLM MUNRO from Chicago to Des Moines . . . 
ED WILSON from Cinnaminson, N.J. to Indian 
Rocks Beach, Fla. . . . TOM McNULTY from 
Arlington Heights, III. to Annanadalc, Va. . . . 
JOE TAFT from Berkeley, CaliL to Oklahoma 
City . . . BOB RISDO.V from Skokie, III. to 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa .. . is it true that HAL 
BLAKESLEE IS now living In South Bend? . . . 
let's hear from the above and whom else they may 
have seen. 
Tlirough the influence of you—my good 
classmates and the things you have been ac-" 
complishing in this wiorld vrith the help of 
others, namely those sweet young things called 
vrivcs—I liavc decided to forsake this selfish, 
sliallow life and become more the complete 
man as yourselves. Tn do this, I have found 
myself a sweet young thing called Susan and 
come April 16 in Coral Gables, I will more 
fully understand your problems. A thank-you 
to the wives for their patience. And to my 
fellow bachelors, stop being selfish!!! Tliank 
you. 
—JOHN ifcMEEL, Secretary 

1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 
1709 Indiana Ave*, LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
Due to the increasing cost of publication and the growth of the ALUMNUS WC have been requested to conserve space, so here is the current news un­einbelllshed by the superfluous comments of >'our secretary. Most of the folIo\ring news came by vray of cards and notes at Christmas time. 
Carol and DAVE HOLTHOUSE arc stiU liring In Rockledge, Fla. (2101 Rockledgc Dr.) and are confirmed Floridlans by now, having migrated there from Richmond, Ind. several years ago. They have two children, Joe (7) and Julie (5). 
JOHN RUSSO was married Sept. 25 at Buck Hill Falls, Pa. John and his bride, Anne, honey­mooned in Jamaica and returned to New York City where John is vice-president of Shirtcraft Co. in Manhattan. 
Dr. JOSEPH P. EMAHTE recently began a three-year rcsidenc>' in inlcmal medicine in San Joaquin General Hospital, French Camp, Calif. Joe completed a two-year lour with the Air Force last August during which time he was stationed at Connally AFB, Tex. 
HENRY "HANK" ZANG sent his annual holi­day report from Bloomington, III. Hank ts with radio station WIOK and resides vrith his wife, Stephanie, daughter, Kim, and son, Mark at 1306 £. Grove St., Bloomington. Hank reports that TOM GOZDECKI recently became a father for the third time (2 girls and 1 boy) and graduated from law school in February J965; and that BUZZ MORAN is no\%- living in Rockford, III. 
BOB MOLUMBY finished a three-year tour as a Lt. JG vrith the Navy in April 1965; took a trip to Northern Europe and England and then took employment vrith Perkins & Will, Architects in Chicago last June. 
BILL STURGIS is now in Paducah, Ky. vrith the Crounse Corp., engaged in the business of river transportation on the Ohio, Tennessee and Missis­sippi Rivers. Previously, Bill v\-as vrith Humble Oil in Tennessee. Bill, Nancy and their young fry, Jennifer, Linda and Brad, can be found at 302 Wallace Lane, Paducah. 
Tlie law firm of Linton and Revmann (that's CHUCK REYMANN) of Akron recently an­nounced the addition to the firm of JOE KILLIAN. The finn's address is Second National Bank Bldg., .Akron. 
JLM "HOOT" WALSH, Class vice-president, has been transferred to the Air Step Div. of Brown Shoe Co. in St. Louis. Hoot reports that he and tlic children are healthy and doing fine. 
TOM CLUSSERATH and family (vrife, Kayc; and daughter, .Amy Kaye, bom Mar. 25,1965) are living In a new home at 12811 Chcsncy Lane, Bovrie, Md. 20715. If memory serves me correctly, Tom is vrith the SEC in Washington. 
Tliat's all the news, but let me announce again the date of our next football reunion. It is sched­uled for Oct. 2, in the Mahogany Room of the ^^orris Inn, following the .Armv game. 
—ARTHUR L. ROULE JR., Secretary 

From the Alumni Office: 
After five and a luilf months In Viet Nam and a fev\- short trips around the US, dipt. CH,ARLES KILB has settled down at Misawa AB in Japan. He has seen little of his bride in the past year. 
JOE BRIDE vvns appointed director of public relations for the Baltimore Orioles. 
TOM LYNCH has joined the Whitman division of Pet Milk Co. as a new product manager. Tom will be responsible for the total marketing program for tlic division's self-service, Valentine's Day and Easter lines. 
From the Graduate School's Class of '58: 
REV. BRIAN J. EGAN OSB MA has been appointed director of International Programs and Development for Pax Romana. Father Egan, who became the youngest college president In the US in '58 when chosen to head St. Bernard College in Alabama, is listed in H'ho's IVho in American 
Education and The American Catholic U'ho*s JVho. 
1958 Law 
JOHN F. AAARCHAL Marchal & Marchal, 116-118 W. 4th St., Greenville, Ohio 45331 
1959 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 2680 Lehman Rd., Apt. 42 Cincinnati, Ohio 45204 
JACK FOX wrilcs from Rochester, Minn, where he is a second-year resident in p3thoIog>' a( Mayo Clinic. Jack and his witc arc the parents of a t\vo-yearK>Id son. Also at Mayo %vith Jack are JERRY BECHAMI^, NOR.\f ODYNIEC and DAVE CULLIGAN (all three are in surgical residency). 
Since JlJf ^tASTERSO^• last wrote, he and CHARLIE DUGG.\N left England, the dog races and tlic Army. Jim then went to Martiucttc for graduate work, back to South Bend,. to Pittsbui^h (where, according to Jim, "JOH.V MALOXEY and I put a bachelor pad together that would make TERRY LAMB's pad in D.C. look sick"), and most recently to Peoria and Caterpillar Tractor Co.*s treasury department. Jim and Jo.\nn were married in May, 1965. 
HUGH JOHN MURPHY, wife, Colette, and their three children arc residing at 19681 Silver Spring Dr., Southlield, Mich. Hugh is a CPA with Price Waterhouse in Detroit. He also reports that JLM THOMPSON is in Adanta, JOHN KROHA and MIKE KURAS arc in Detroit, and that JACK CONNORS is in Boston. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 19« APRIL 

A note from JOHJT FOCHTMAN's father informs us that John has been transferred from his duties at the US Na\-al Hospital in Saigon, South Viet Nam to a new assignment at the US Na\'al Hospital in Yokohama, Japan. His address is: Lt. John A. Fochtman—!vIG, US Naval Hospital, Box 7 FOB—San Francisco, Calif. 96661, 
ANTHONY N. GRAHAM is presently practicing law in Chicago. Tony married Mary Jo Rinlc in 1960. They arc the parents of Jenny, five; Peter, tour; and Hilary, 18 months. Tony is a member of the Yale Law Class of '62, and was a captain in US Army Intelligence with a tour of duty in Nuremberg, Germany. 
LARRY WENTZ sends word from Philadelphia that the Class of *39 has been well represented there. "It included BILL BROMANN (a Navy Lt, biochemist, who has since moved with his wife and four children to the Na\'al Hospital in Oakland or San Francisco); HARRY RYAN (they arc expecting No. 2. Harry is selling with Merch­Sharp-Domc's Quentin Division. They have moved to North Jersey); B.ASIL BECK (seen at many local Palestra basketball games, now married and practicing law in his hometown, Bridgetown, N.J.) and JIM HUTELMYER (who w^s in the ad business in Philly for a few years but who is now trying the same game on Madison Ave, in New York.)" 
TERRY MCDONNELL is now stationed at Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo. as an orthopedic surgeon. After graduation, Terry attended the U. of Nebraska Med School, graduating in 1963. The following summer he married Jeanne Moran (Rosary-, *59). Daughter Kathleen ^Iaric was bom in Sept. '64. Terry also tells iis that MIKE O'NEIL, who was also at Nebraska, and is now a second year resident in orthopedic surgery at Duke U.. vfos married in 1962 and is the father of two children. MIKE DUGAN went to law scliool at Creighton. finishing in 1962. Mike Is ^vith a law firm in Omaha but is still pb>'ing an active role in sports. For the last two years, Mike has been coach-quarterback of the semi-professional team, the Omaha M»istangs. 
DAVE AMIDON. PAUL MARTO '60 and J.\CK WALKER '60 and their wives were at the ND-a-il game last fall. Dave did sec JOHN MARTIN, an attorney for Kaiser Steel in Oakland, and later lieard that BOB K.\ERCHER. now stationed at Fort Ord, Monterey after Vietnam duty, was also at the game. 
From Downers Grove, 111., and PAUL QUINN, comes news that in Sept. 1939 he married Mane O'Dea, a nurse from Watcrbur>*, Conn. Piiul and Marie now have four children: Shannon, 5; Stephen, 254; Christopher, 1"/^; and Douglas, three montlis. In 1960, Paul joined Anaconda American Brass, Metal Hose Division, as a sales trainee. The following year he was transferred to Chicago as a sales representative. The Quinns traveled to California last year where they visited with BOB PUTNAM and Mary Ellen. The Pulnams also have four children: Margie, "Robbie," Steven and Mary Alice. Paul also mentioned seeing GENE DUFFY recently at Creighton U. where "DuIF* is athletic manager. 
After TOM CAHILL parted with the Na\T, he headed for Harvard Business School and his MBA. Then on to San Francisco where, until recently, he was with Crown Zellerbach. In November 1965, he became product manager for Leslie Salt—Spice Islands Co. in S.F. Tom is not yet married and claims to be enjoying bachelorhood, which includes plenty of skiing at Squaw Valley. 
The Washington report comes from our president, JOHN HAYWARD. Mary Beth and John were in NYC for the Anny game last fall and saw the following: BILL BRADLEY, RALPH DANGLE­MAIER, JULIUS JODLBAUER, MIKE IIALPIN, COKSY HAUGH, TOM CARROLL, BILL Mc-CULLOUGH, DICK TR.\UT, ED RICCIUTI, TERRY PLUNKETT, HARVEY FREM, ROGER BRESLIN, BILL WHALEN, KNUTE C.-\VAN­AUGH, LARRY McGOVERN, JOHN MADDEN. JOE DOWNS, ROGER O'NEIL, DUNCAN La-VIGNE, and FRANK MOONEY. 
John has (inislied at Georgetown LaW, but JOE DASCHBACH, JOE HOGAN, PAUL WILLIHN­GANZ and MARSH PIDGEON arc still there. TERRY LAMB is at Catholic U. Law, and MIKE PHENNER is uilh the Anny Judge Advocate General's Office. JOE O'CONNOR is newly mar­ried and with the Kennedy Foundation. MARK SHIELDS recently joined Sen. William Proxmirc (D., Wise.) as legislative assistant, and promises to become a capitol fixture. DAVE BARRETT is clerking for Judge WILLIAM B. JONES, a ND grad of' somewhat earlier vintage than we, while JOE HARRISON is with Congressman Ed Rcinecke of California. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
BOB COX U with the SEC and DENNY POWELL is with IRS. John had heard that CHARLIE WOLFRAM was in D.C. but had not yet seen him. JOHN EDWARDS visited the Haj-wards last summer and brought news of a pleasant visit in St. Louis with JOHN LEAHY and TOM BR.\DY. Tom b in Chicago finishing up on his PhD in history and John is "Reputedly, assisting Coach Paneghian with off-the-ficld matters.'* DAVE GERTH was recently married and is with IBM in Washington. 
President Ha^^rard sa>-s he has probably for­gotten to mention somebody he sees evcr>' day, but I think he did a tremendous job in bringing us up to date. Meanwhile, John. Mar>- Beth, Elizabeth and Elizabeth's baby brother or sister, due in March, are In the process of resettling in Toledo. 
Some of our classmates have experienced a great deal of sorrow in recent montlis. It is our sad duty to report the deatlis of the following: Judy, the wife of JIM DINCOLO; the father of RUDY HORNISH; the father of OVRL NOELKE; the father of JOHN FAZIO; the father of GENE SAXON; and the stepfather of BOB TURICCHI. On behalf of the Class, may I extend our pledge of prayers. 
—JOE MULLIGAN, Secretary 

1960 
JOHN F. GEIER 1045 Linden Ave., WilmeHe, III. 60091 
From the Alumni Ofiicc: 
PAUL BERETZ moved to Atlanta, Ga. from New York in January. Paul is married and lias a one-year-old son, Charles, with another linebacker due this August. He is working as assistant to the Southern region credit manager of Union Carbide Corp. Paul can be reached at 3518 Roswell Rd., N.W., Atlanta. 
PAT KEEFE, who was uith the Class until December, 1958 when he left to join the seminary, was ordained in Rome for the Diocese of St. Augustine in December. Father Keefc will return to Winter Haven, Fla. early in the summer to offer his Mass of Thanksgiving. 
First Lt. DICK LARK, a legal officer at Tan Son Nhut Airfield, Vict Nam, has returned to the US and duty at Suffolk County AFB, N.Y. 
DENNIS KIDDER writes: "I'm still with the technical ser\-ices div. of American Can. In April 19G3 I was promoted to supervisor of a group wlilcli renders technical assistance to our plants. Our son, Robert Reese celebrated his second birth­day on Jan. 27. Nancy and I recently built a colonial in Western Springs, 111. Our address is 5320 Woodland." 
THEO McCOURTNEY has been elected secre­tary of the Student Association at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. 
DON GEIS was married on Oct. 23 and is now living at 22735 Nine Mile Rd., Apt. 6, St. Clair Shores, Mich. 48080. 
Capt. PAUL CARROLL is ser\ing in the new North American Air Defense Command (NORAD) combat operations center Inside Cheyenne >fountain near Colorado Springs, Colo. 
TOM ALLEN has accepted the position of director of Public Works and City Engineer for Mt. Pleasant, Mich. His address is 501 S. College. 
ED SHADD was named manager of the service planning department of Xerox Corporation's marketing division. Ed and Nancj- arc living at 44 KnoUbrook Rd., Rochester, N-Y. 
HARRY HENNING is a professional sales rep­resentative of Pfizer Laboratories. Harry and Jacquclyn have two sons, Harry and William, and live at 1201 N. Foster Dr., Baton Rouge, I^ . 
From the Graduate School's Class of '60: CHARLES A. LYNCH JR. PhD has been ap­pointed supcr\'isor of the chemical applications research at the Baltimore laboratories of FMC Corporation's organic chemicals division. 
1961 
NICK PALIHNICH 34 Dartmouth Rd., 
W. Orange, N.J. 07050 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n • 12 
From the Alumni Office: AN*THON-Y SORCE has been selected for in­clusion In the 1966 edition of Outitamding Young 
Men of America. 
WALT DUSPIVA has been promoted to associate engineer for IBM. 
^UT T KELLEHER joined the jucchanical engineering department at ND In September and now is an assistant professor. Matt is sdQ a member of the bachelor fraternity. 
PHIL LORETAN received his PHD in nuclear engineering from Iowa State U. in November. 
Br. JOSEPH CAIN CSC U one of a highly select group of 23 men and women being groomed for bright careers in education at Tulane. They are the first interns in the American Counol on Education's program to train college adminutrators. ^fost of the interns have had some prior ad­ministrative experience. 
First Lt. DON RICE, one of the first Army officers to serve on the Naval Postgraduate School faculty, has reported for duty as asst, prof in management in the recently established Defense Management Systems Course. Don lives with his w*ife and twY> sons at 117 Brownell Circle, La Mesa Village, Monterey, Calif. 
FRANCIS BENNETT, J.\MES IRWIN and DANIEL PANCHOT were all ordained CSC priests in December. Fr. Bennett offered his first solemn Mass in Dallas; Fr. Irwin in La Jolla and Fr. Panchot in Okmulgee, Okla. 
VIC ROSAMILIA received his DDS from the 
U. of Fairlcigh Dickinson Dental School last June and is fixing teeth in E. Orange, N.J. 
BILL H.\LL has been promoted to captain in the US.AF and is an instructor pilot at Reese AFB, Texas. 
JOHN "JACK" MITCHELL has been elected an assistant cashier at First National Bank in Dallas. 
JOHN SCHUSTER was elected trust and invest­ment officer for the St. Joseph Bank & Trtist Co. in South Bend. 
KEN SULLIVAN was raised from vice-president to senior vice-president in January at the Bank of Las Vegas. Ken was with Ernst and Ernst (public accountants) In their Salt Lake City office before joining the bank. 
JOHN MCLAUGHLIN took a position with GE shortly after graduation and has vtoiked in Phila­delphia; Fort Waj-ne, Ind.; and Morrison, lU. While in Morrison, John joined the Army Reserve. "Upon completion of basic training at Fort Knox, the .Army took a look at my BS tn EE and ap­parently decided that this was an excellent badt­ground for medicine. Accordingly, I foimd myself at Fort Sam Houston, Tex., studying for the remainder of my six-months active duty to be an .Army medic." After returning to civvies he went to work for GE in West Rynn, "Slass. Still ^ngle, his apartment at 391 Nahant Rd., Nahant, ^Llss. 01908 "overlooks the ocean with the next piece of land in view being Spain—only on a clear day." 
JOE PICHLER has joined the faculty of the U. of Kansas School of Business. 
1961 Law 
JOHN N. MOREIAND Bookin & Morelond, 2111/2 E. Main St., Ottumwa, Iowa 52501 
From the Alumni Office: JIM CASEY has become associated with the law firm of Sage and McCauley, in Kalamazoo, Mich. His new address is 710 Kalamazoo Bldg., Kahmazoo, Mich. 49006. 
1962 
TERRENCE F. McCARTHY 31957 Williamsburg, St Clair Shores, Mich. 48082 
BILL BRUTVAN and his wife, the fonner Ann Bennett, have a year-old son, William J. Bill, who earned a MA in petroleum geology recently, com­pleted his military service and is presently a law student at Emory U. in Atlanta, Ga. Marianna and BILL KLEIN are the proud parents of a daughter, Katherine. Bill finishes medical school at Temple this June and will be interning at Concmough Valley Memorial Hospital in Johns­town, Pa. They would like to hear from friends, BOB LOVE. MAURICE O'SULLIVAN and MIKE TYNAN. Congratulations to MARK HARTER and his wife, who live in Midbnd, APrS., on the 
birth of their baby boy. MIKE ZWETTLER is 
stud>*ing in Cairo, his friends can reach him at 
American U., 113 Sliaria Kosr £I-Aini Cairo, 
U.A.R. 
ROBERT A. LATSKO completed three years 
with Army Intelligence in Stuttgart, Germany. 
Presently, Bob is in management with the J.C. 
Penney Co. in Grossc Pointc. Mich. PETE HY­
LAXD who hopes to get a MS in cartli science 
is teaching at Port Richmond High. An avid 
barbershopper, he is a member of the Society For 
the Preservation and Encouragement of Barber 
Shop Quartet Singing in America. Inc. TREY 
HEEKIN and WILLIAM A. BUSEMEYER are 
graduates of the U. of Cincinnati Law School, and 
liavc passed the Ohio bar. Both arc now practicing 
law in Cincinnati. 
D.AVE MENZIES, a well-traveled representative 
of Employer Group Insurance Co.. has recently 
accepted a sales representative position with the 
Hartford Life Insurance Co. in San Francisco 
(2238 Vallejo). TONY COX, a graduate of North­
western U. Law School and a member of the Ohio 
bar, lias married the former L^-nda Paschke. His 
new address is Lt. A. A. Cox, 05515156 U.S. 
General Army Dcport-Giessen, Gcniiany, APO 
09169 N.Y. 

DAVE CASTALDI has sent some information on classmates. Dave, who is attending the Har\'ard Business School, vcWl be married in June to Judith Anne Pille of IndianaiwHs. RON V.-VNNUKI and family arc stationed at Ft. Harrison in Indianapolis, where Ron is working \rith EDP machines at the finance center. DICK MEECE is a finance oflicer in Korea and has decided to stay in the scn'icf lor a while. He volunteered for XHet Nam. and expects his orders by April. BILL BEAVER was appointed an assistant professor at the U. of Chicago Graduate School. He and wife Sue arc expecting a baby in April. Congratulations also to Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. IRVIN on the birth of son Dand Charles. Jan. 3. The Irvins also have a little girl. Congratulations are in order for DR. JAMES CREAGA N PJiD, and his bride, the former Cherry Gwyn Joiison of San Antonio, who were married Jan. 29. Jim is on the faculty of St. Mark's U. in San Antonio. THEODORE J. NYLESE has returned home from ser\-ing in Giessen, Germany. Ted. who was married to the former Sandra Narcia last October is now associ­ated with Bankers Trust Co. 
—TERRENCE F. MCCARTHY, Secretary-

From the Alumni Office: First Lt. JOHN LANG lias completed a three-year tour of duty in Harrogate, England and has been assigned—as of .April 1966^—to .AS.A Hdqtrs., Arlington, Va. TED TESKE will receive his MD this June at the U. of Washingion in Seattle. After receiving his M.A in industrial safety from NYU, BOB FERRIS and his wife, Susanne, moved to 505 E. Parish St., Sanduskv, Ohio 44870. ROBERT ANTONELLI and JAMES Mc-LELLAN, both fonnerly of South Bend, were ordained CSC priests in Rome Dec 18. Fr. Antonelli is studjing theology at the Gregorian U. 
in Rome but will return to South Bend at the end 
of the course in June to celebrate his first solemn 
Moss. Fr. McLellan will also offer his first solemn 
Mass in South Bend foUouing his return from Rome 
next summer. 
RUDY KOLOSZAR lias been appointed sales 
and ser\*icc representative of the Allstate Insurance 
Companies and the Allstate Motor Club for the 
South Bend Sears, Roebuck store. He served in 
the First Armored Div., US.A, and was squadron 
communications officer at Ft. Hood, Texas from 
March, 1963 to December, 1954. He lias taken 
special courses with Allstate before his South Bend 
assignment. 
First Lt. BILL WEINSHEIMER of Chicago has 
been assigned to Oakland AB, Calif, as executive 
officer of Hdqrs., Commandant of the Western 
Area, military traffic management and terminal 
scr^'ice-
CHARLES L.AVELY and R. FERNANDO VIAL 
were ordained CSC priests in December. Fr. Lavcly 
was ordained in Rome and Fr. Vial in Santiago, 
Chile. 
MIKE SWORDS received his MS in biochemistry 
from Iowa State U. on Nov. 24 while, at the 
same time, ROGER BREKKENS received an MS 
in chemical engineering at the same time. 
REV. CLAUDE A. POMERLEAU CSC was 
ordained in Rome in December. 
.ANDREW A. SCHWAB writes from Pontiac, 
Mich., with news of the latest family addition: 
Michael Curran, bom Dec. 2. Andy and Im wife, 
the fonner Maureen Eardley of Grand Rapids, have 
two older children: Susan Marie, 2, and Stephen 
Gerard, 1. Andy is currently an industrial engi­
neer in the stamping division of Chr>"aler Corp. 
A letter from Mrs. Max Fendricb in Seattle lets 
us in on the latest news of son JAMES FEN­
DRIEB M.A '62. .After graduation from ND Jim 
received a PhD from Michigan Slate U. in 1963 
in sociology'. He also found a Mis. at East Lansing, 
iiiarr>-ing the former Judith Curtin, May 11, 1963. 
Jim's now teaching at Florida State U., Tallahas­
see, Fla. His address is Box 26, Route 4, Talla­
hassee. 
1962 Law 
PAUL K. ROONEY Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, 
120 Broadway, New York, N.Y, 10005 
1963 FRANK P. DICELLO 218 Palmer Hill Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
From the Alumni Office: 
JOHN FINNERiW has been living in Stock­holm, Sweden and wtirkiiig in Europe since Alay, 1964. He is president of Seven Brothers Music Inc.. music publishers. John is planning an Aug. 2D wedding to Sharon Ann Kfonlder of South Bend. 
POPE PAUL VI '60, at his Dec. 22 Christmas audience, is shown extending per­sonal greetings and blessings to two ND men — Robert A. Harvey '68, a soph­omore at Innsbruck, and John D. Mooney '63, on art instructor in Florence. Kissing the Pontiff's ring is Martin Brett from the U. of Leeds, England, a volun­teer at the ND Hospitality Center in Rome. 
Lt. (jg) DAVID THOMAS is overseas with the 
Pacific fleet, but is returning to Newport, R.I. in 
June to marry Paulctte Guthrie. 
RANDY VUKSANOVIC is getting married to 
Mary Stokes on Aug. 6 at Notre Dame. An engi­
neer for Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. in 
East Chicago, he is pursuing a MA in business 
management at Roosevelt U. in Chicago. 
Last September, PAT CAWLEY entered Mt. St. 
Mary*s Seminary at Emmitsburg, Md. to study for 
the priesthood after spending two years at the 
National Bank of Detroit. Pat expects to be 
ordained in five years for the diocese of Grand 
Rapids, Mich. 
Second Lt. MICHAEL LANE and Second Lt. 
DIMITRI SOLGA were graduated at Davis-
Monthan AFB, Ariz, from the training course for 
F-4C Phantom 11 pilots and have been assigned 
to Bentu-atcrs RAF Station in England. 
Second Lt. TIMOTHY JENKINS received his 
navigator wings at James Connally AFB, Tex. and 
is n>-ing out of Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio for 
S.\C. 

TOM BRUNNER received his MS at Ohio State 
U. in December. 
HARRY DEVERELL has joined the Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp. as a research metallurgist and is living at 149 Cedar Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228. 
KENT ACKERSO.N received hU MS from the 
U. of Iowa on Feb. 5. 
Second Lt. ED CRUMP received his pilot wings 
upon graduation at Williams AFB, Ariz. Following 
specialized aircrei*' training, he will be assigned to 
Bitbui^ AB, Germany as an F-4C Phantom II 
fighter pilot. 
DARYLE LAMONICA underwent surgery in 
Buffalo General Hospital Feb. 18 to repair a torn 
cartilage in his knee. He injured his knee in a 
prc-scason game against the Kansas City Chiefs 
last August. 
GIL RODRIGUEZ lias been living in Phila­
delphia while attending Temple Medical School. 
His address is Manheim Gardens 15B, W. Manheim 
St. 

DAVE CLEARY received his MS in chemical engineering from Iowa State U. on Nov. 24. ALLEN J. KORENJAK u-as granted a master of arts degree in electrical engineering by Princeton 
U. in November. 
EDGAR C. ECK JR. writes that he recently be­came a father of an 8 lb. 5 oz. boy. "He has al­ready indicated he wants to go to Notre Dame," wrote Ed. 
ANTHON*Y F. PRINSTER has changed his address in Grand Junction, Colo., to 1320 Grand. Tony is now in his last year at Colorado U. Law School. 
1963 Law — 
JOSEPH SULLIVAN, Legal Dept., Associates Investment Co., South Bend, Ind. 46615 
As you can see, we liave a new class scrivener. CLASSEN GRAMM, no\%' practicing in San Diego, requested tliat I take over in vnew of my present location; five home games, you can*t beat it! I hope tliat >-ou will keep me informed about your­selves, so tliat each of us may keep in touch with one another. I am sure that I will get a lot of help on this column, inasmuch as JOHN COS­TELLO returned to South Bend last September. He is presently a member of the Legal Staff of Associates Investment Co. and one of South Bend's most eligible bachelors. 
I am sure a lot Itas happened to most of us Hncc our days at ND. I have a son, Brian Patrick. ED FILLENWARTH married a wonderful girl from Indianapolis, and the>' arc now the proud parents of a fine son, Daniel Patrick. BUD MALONE married Mary Ellen Berry SMC *61 and they have just recently become the parents of a beautiful baby giri, Mary Ellen. JIM LEKIN joined a law firm in Buffalo and from what I understand is doing quite well. From all reports BOB BERRY is making a mint in Reno, and in the not too dbtant future we'll see his name as a candidate for public office in that state. 
From my hut report from BOB SAXE, be is in good health notwithstanding the fact that he is touring the Far East, including Viet Nam, at the expense of Uncle Sam. Just remember. Bob, that civilbns pay thousands of dollars a year for similar trips. 
Please let me hear from all of you so that I will have more infonnation to pass on in the next issue. —JOSEPH SULLIVAN, Secretary 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

1964 
WARREN C. STEPHENS 778 Coleman Ave., Menlo Park, Cal. 94025 
From the Alumni Office: TIic January, 1966 edition of the Catholic U. of America Bulletin pictured WILLIAM CUSICK on the cover. Bill was a member of the three-man moot court team which helped Catholic U. Law School gain the semi-finals of the National Moot Court Competition for the second straight year. Mrs. Earl Dull WTites from Celina, Ohio that JON R. DULL is now on active duty with the Navy in Vict Nam. Fiist Lt. GEORGE C. LANG is stationed in Di An, Vict Nam (eight miles from Saigon) with tlic US Army Security Agency, attached to the 1st 2nfantr>' Division. DAVID J- FREUND writes from Bloomington. Ind., where he is in Indiana U. School of Law, that he is engaged to Miss Marian Susan Knieger of Manawa, Wis. Dave, who will finish law school in June, 1966, plans a fall wedding. A/3 LEO J. HERBERT (son of the late LEO HERBERT SR. LLB '27) has been graduated from the training school for Air Force accounting and finance specialists. He has been re-assigned to Elgin AFB, Fla. RICHARD G. DAMICO \mtcs from the Windy City that his new address is 119 N. Parksidc, Chicago. Since Nov. 27, Dick has had a "better half" at home, the fonner Miss Susan Casey SMC '65. He is currently working on his mastcr*s di^rce at Northwestern U. An article in The New York Times recently announced the engagement of WILLL-\M A. FIDELI JR. to Miss Bcmadetle V. Kemps. Bill is working for a master's at the U. of Mar>land. His fiancee is a senior at Catholic U. of America, Washington, D.C. Mrs. Rosemary N. Joerg wrote a letter from Rockvillc Centre, N.Y. to give us the latest infor­mation on her son, JOSEPH J. JOERG JR. Now a Navy lieutenant (j.g.). Joe is aboard the USS Chemung. His address is USS Chemung (AO­30), c/o FPO San Francisco, Calif. 96601 Second Lt. JAMES L. CUMISKEY has been a\\*ardcd pilot wings after graduation from flight school at Vance AFB, Okla. Jim is no^v assigned to Cannon AFB, N.M. Vvt. KENNETH W. GIGAX has completed an 11-wcek radio tclet>'pe operation course at the Army Southeastern Signal School, Fort Gordon, Ga. Ken was employed by General Trailer Co., Inc. before entering the Army. Second Lt. ALVRK SHERID.\N has graduated from the Kcesler AFB, Miss, course for Air Force communications officers. Mark has been assigned to Mobile, Ala. for duty with the Air Force Logistics Command. ROBERT R. BELL writes from Santa Cruz, Bolivia, that he is now a Peace Corps worker there after teaching six montlis in the public schools of South Bend. His address is c/o Peace Corps, Casilla 486, Santa Cruz. PAUL F. CASEY, a graduate student at the U. of North Dakota, has been awarded a $1000 Max Kadc Fellou-ship for the fiist year of a master's degree program in German. The program at North Dakota is a three-year course, with the second year being spent abroad. 
Air Force 2nd Lt. JOHN P. KINTZ of South Bend has completed the survi\"al and special train­ing courses conducted by the Air Training Com­mand at Stead AFB, Ncrada. An F-4C Phantom jet pilot, John has been assigned to Woodbridgc Rf\F Station, England. 
Miss Roberta Borchers (SMC '64) writes in a letter about the recent acliie\-cmcnts of her "mod­est fiance," CARL A. FLECKER JR. Giri is a second-year dental student of the U. of Pittsburgh and recently placed fourth in national student clinician exhibitions at the national convention of the American Dental Association in Las Vegas. 
1964 Law 
THOMAS F. CONNEELY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, 111. 60202 
Once again the class scribe hunches over his trusty, well-oiled typeWTiter and scans his cor­respondence. This takes about two minutes, all of which is spent reading a long and interesting letter from DAVE "SUNGOD" PETRE. Dave 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
reports that he is delighted with his job in the patent department at Xerox and that he and his family are greatly enjoying life in Rochester, N.Y. He reports having successfully handled an indigent defense case, thereby oftsctling the prosecution efforts of FINDLAY, KILLIAN and CRE.-\GER. As we in the field say, "The defense never rests!" Dave also reports having received a letter from BALFE "HANS" WAGNER who is scr\ing in the Anny JAG Corps in Korea. Balfe has a part-time jtib leaching a U. of Maryland course and earns a few extra pennies in jump pay. Dave's letter expresses great interest in being kept up to date on his classmates' doings. So, classmates, bear this in mind: 
No news but Dave's doth mail bring 
To the worthy scribe, the volunteer. 
And if YOU don't remedy this woe. 
Then you won't hear from me no mo*. 

A Christinas card from Joe, Dottie and JOSEPH 
MYLOTTE informs us that tliev arc living at 
7635-A Pedcn St., Argonne Hills, Ft. Meade, Md. 
Abo in that area are Maria and MIKE RYAN at 
1706 Brightsrat Rd., Landover, Md. 20786. 
In addition to my request for correspondence from you, I have another appeal to make. I've been ser\'ing on the board of directors of the Notre Dnine Law .tVssnciation and have been involved in the hunt for schnlan-hip funds. Our goal is far from being attained, and the campaign goes slowly. Dig deep, classmates. Any contribution, regardless of size, will be warmly received. 
1965 
JAMES P. HARNISCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, Ohio 44514 
JOSEPH D. RE.\0 is working in the .^uditing department of Sears, Roebuck & Co. in Memphis, Tcnn. Joe was presented with a girl in September by his wife Anne (Gilhim). 
WALT DESMOND was married to Ann Robcrson Jan. 29 in Los Angeles. Walt is studying for his IMiD in biochemistry at UCLA. 
CARL GIO.MBETTI is studying medicine at 
the Philadelphia School of Osteopathy. Carl is one 
of our "eastern area representatives," and has 
moved to Connecticut. New address: Mosswood 
Apt. 104, Unquouti Rd., Fairfield, Conn. 
BOB GILMARTIN has accepted a position witli 
the Rosenberg.,Herald-Coaster newspaper in Rosen­
berg, Tex. as .sports director and assistant advertis­
ing manager. Bob's sports column features Houston 
athletic events and personalities. 
BILL McGUIRE was cng.igcd recently to Nancy 
Hoync of Dayton, Ohio. Plans are for an .\ugust 
wedding upon completion of Bill's graduate study 
in hospital administration at the U. of Michigan. 
JI.M BERBERET is also planning a march to the altar in August with lus fiancee. Knthy Eagan. Jim's at Northwestern's graduate school in journal­ism working on a master's degree. 
PAUL DOYLE is in the process of completing his six months' National Guard duty at an Air Force training center in EI Paso, Tex. 
M.-\TT L.-\MBERT is working hard at St. Louis Medical School. Sharing the grindstone with Matt arc JOHN TODD, DAN FORWARD, JOHN BERGMEYER, .MIKE ROARKE, JULES VAN DER S.\.\L and CHUCK WETLI. 
LEE MCCARTH Y W.TS eng.iged over Christmas to Roberta Schnaus of Jasper, Ind. A summer wedding is being planned. Lee is presently employed as news director in television station WYTV in Youngslown, Ohio. Lee was offered this excellent position upon his graduation last Jiini'. 
—JIM HARNISCH. Secretary 

Dear Fellow Classmates: THO.M.\S NAH.M, FR/\NK C.\NNO.\', and RICHARD SOWA arc in the MB.-V program at the 
U. of Chicago. 
NELSON McMAIIOX Ls in the MBA program at Michigan State U. ANDY HOWARD is working while attending a financial training program at the Hotpoint Div. of General Electric. 
STEVE WORTHLEY has an aeronautical fellow­ship at ND. MICHAEL MURPHY b in the MBiV program at Har\'ard. 
MEL NOEL, DAVE SCHIAVONE, PAUL SCHWAB, DAN ZIEMBA, RICK ZITO, LEN SER/\PHLN*, FRED RUSI.VA. BILL PEETERS, PAT DALY, BOB KEATING, DICK ZACHAR and myself arc attending Northwestern Law School. Dave is dividing his attentions between the law and Miss Marianne Spalding SMC '65. We re­minded Dave that the law is a jealous mistress, he infonns us so is ilarianne. That's Dave! Fred is the proud father of a new 1966 Mustang con­
vertible. Kit and Miss Kay Killacky were engaged 
during Christmas vacation. BILL CRAGG, majoring 
in English, paid our law school a \isit last week. 
TOSi FELLRATH is in the Army and stationed 
in Germany. KEN ODMARK CPA and JACK 
&L\DIGAN arc working for the accounting firm 
of Haskins & Sells. Ken plans to report for active 
duty in the Army on June 2. JIM KISTING ^vas 
married on Thanksgiving. He is now attending 
Georgetown Law Center. Others worlung for public 
accounting finns include JOHN S. CORCOR.AN 
and JUR K DYNIEWICZ working for Arthur 
Young and Co., and JOHN RYNELL for Touche. 
Ross, Bailey, and Smart. 
PHIL HALEY, RA.MO.\ MURPHY, MIKE 
PETERS, and TO.M FULLER arc attending North­
western Medical School. RICK RAY, HARRY 
STEELE and GLENN (BUZZ) BREEN are in the 
MBA at Northwestern Business SchooL 
BILL SLATTERY is now finishing his wiork 
toward his MB.\ at Santa Clara College in 
Oilifornla. He Is rooming with ROCKE GARCIA. 
Rumor lias it that Bill didn't transfer from Pitts­
burgh U. with the single purpose of seeing and 
rooming with Rockc. NAT DAVIS is also attending 
Santa Clara with Bill and Rocke. BILL DUNN 
played tackle for a newly fonned semi-pro football 
team which finished second in its league. Bill and 
his wife Val now reside In Libcrtyvillc, 111. where 
Bill is designing and producing car-campers. TONY 
PERRONE and Val Maracz SMC '65 were married 
on Thanksgiving. 
—LARRY BESHEL, President 

From the Alumni Office: According to DENNIS F, TROESTER '57, di­rector of the .Annual .Alumni Fund, the Class of 1965 Scholarship Fund has received a total of 467 pledges to date, totaling $93,400. Fart of this resulted from a November direct mail effort to those not already participating in the program, after which 76 additional pledges were received totaling $13,200. 
1965 Law 
JOHN A. HAUTER 18441 Cowing Courf, Homewood, 111. 60430 
Lack of response from you has made compilation of this column more tlian difficult. Since graduation we have not heard from One bachelor. What are you all up to? Please remember that a postcard will suffice. Only a few letters were received from the married folks. 
Wc received a short memo from JOHN MULVI­HILL who tells us that he is now associated with the firm of Oarc, Thomburs, McGill and Deahl of South Bend. 
DENNIS STEROSKY and Doris claim that their Christmas holidays were made exceptionally memo­rable, since it was then that they learned that Denny passed the bar. Congrats. They also are excited about the fact that they will soon be the parents of a future ND quarterback or perhaps a cheerleader. Can you picture Denny in the titter's waiting room in the hospital? 
Rumor has it that ART HOOVER and Sue will also join the parent-roster by mid-summer. 
It's wedding bells again! You guessed it—STEVE WEIDNER and Kate Delia Maria SMC '65 an­nounced their engagement rcccnUy. We've heard of no wedding date yet. Write to us, Steve, and tell us all about it. 
Wc received a Christinas card from JbfIKE BISHKO with a New York address. ^Vhat gives Bish? 
Also via Christmas cards, we leam that RON SOWERS and Launa have moved twice since graduation. Will fill you in on why, as soon as they get around to telling us. By the u-ay, Launa, what happened to the bratwurst party you were to liave at the LAMONT's after the game? 
Has anyone heard from RICH CATENACCI? Wc have some new addresses for the following: DOUG SPECIA. 819 Black Rd., Joliet, lU. 60435; "TEX" DUTILE, 208 Skyhill Rd. No. 6, Alex­andria, Va. 22314; LARRY SHINNICK, 1699 31st St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007; D.AVE HEMMINGER, 4217 Round Bottom Rd., Cincin­nati, Ohio 45244. How about surprising me one of these days and 
barraging me with so much mail that I ^vill find it difficult to condense into our column ullotment? —JOHN A. HAUTER. Secretary 
ALABAAfA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Binning-ham, Ala. 
ALASKA 
John S. Hellenthal, '35. Box 941, Anchomgc, Alaska. 
ARIZONA 
PAoenir—Arthur L. Ena, "30, 5038 
N. 35di Su, Phoenix, Ariz. 
Tucjou—I. "Buddy" Goldman, '36, 3932 E. Poe, Tucson, Ariz. 
ARKANS.AS 
Fort 5milA—James A. Gilicr, '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 
Uttle Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crestw'ood, Little Rock. Art. 
CALIFORNIA 
Bottrj^cW—Richard L. Bamett, '56, 1415 18th St., .Apt. 316, Bakcrsficld, Calif. Central—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secre­tary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. Lox AngeUs—Robert L. Ger\-ais, '55, 3219 Rosewood Ave., Los Angeles 66, Calit. Northern—Edv%-aitl E. Madigan *54, 5528 Glenbrook Dr., Oakland, Calif. Orange County—^Thomas J. Gctzing­er, '53, 2212 E. Wilshire Ave., Fullerlon, Cahf. Sacramento—Frank Gcrcmia Jr. '60, 8424 Lake Forest Dr. Sacramento, Calif. San WiV-zJo—Manin VI. Rickling, '52, 9235 Fermi Ave., San Diego 23, Calif. San Fernando Valley—Robert Hunter, '52, 8757 Jumilkt Ave., Northridgc, Calif. San Gabriel Valley — William T. Huston, '51, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los Angeles 17, Calif. irert-Cenlro/—E. Stuart Hilbert. '63, 1901 Halford, No. 105, Santa Clara, Calif. 
COLORADO 
Colorado Springs — Lt. Col. itxlham 
M. Wakin, '52, Quarters Ko. 6410E, Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs. Colo. 
Denver—James Robert Hilgcr, Jr., '5S, 3166 S. Vine St., Englewood, Colo., 80110. 
CONNECTICUT 
Conneeticul Valley—Robert L. Mc-Goldrick, '56, 15 Drury Lane, W. Hartford. Conn. Fairfield County—Gordon J. DiRcnzo '56, 1971 Bronson Rd., Fairfield, Conn. Naugatuck—Thomas K. Hubbard, '56, Box 84, South St., Litchfield, Conn. New Haven—HT. Robert T. Warner, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave, Hamden 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE 
Robert E. Daley '58, 2113 W. 17lb St., Wilmington, Del. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Walter J. Brennan, M.D., '41, 700 Duke St., Alexandria, Va. 
FLORIDA 
CnUrol—Robert J. Pleus, '57, 1037 Lancaster, Dr., Orlando, Fla. Ft. Lauderdale—Robert P. Bkiikie. '56, 4411 N.E. I5lh Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33308 Greater Af:: -li—George F. Hero, '52, 40 N.E. -111 St., Miami, Fla. 

North Florida — Albert H. Kessing, '40, 7245 Coligny Rd., Jacksonville, Fla. 
Palm Beach Counlj—John W. Dell '62, 153 S. Worth Ct., W. Palm Beach, Fb. 33405 
Pensacoia—John L. McCormack, '49, 
P.O. Box 8, Pensacola, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa — Mark E. Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta — Joseph S. Signiago, *48, 4720 ChcrrT,n\ood Lane, Atlanta, 
HAWAII 
Hancy Lung, '53. 1605 Uluco St. Kailua, Oaliu, Hau-aii. 
IDAHO 
Francis H. Hicks, '49, 1180 Phelps Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho. Idaho Falls — James M. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
.4uroro — John G. Brj'an. '54, 111 Downer Place, Aurora, 111. 
Central Illinois—Albzrt O. Eck, Jr., '58, Old Jacksom-illc Rd., Spring­field, III. 
Chicago — Patrick J. Siiannon, '48, 943U S. Oakley Ave., Chicago 20, 111. Decatur—Joseph T. Donovan, '56, 
R. No. 1, llliopolis. III. 62539 
Eastern Illinois — Thomas A. Jacobs, '57, 1520 N. Jackson St., Danrille, 
Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St.. Elgin. III. /o&t—Richard E. McHugh, '43, 
R.R. 2, Manhattan. III. 
McHenry County — Tiioraas J. Par­sley, '54. 377 West Crystal Lake Ave., Cr>-stal Lake, III. 
Peona — George J. Best, M.D.. '38, 312 Miller .^ve., Peoria Hts., 111. Rockford — Robert E. Downer '32. 
4322 BrendcnwBod Rd.. Rockford, 
Eock Riser Valley — Paul L. Berret­tini, '55, 609 Crawford Ave., Dbcon, 
Southern Cook County — Robert N. CafTarelli. '55, 20851 Sp.lrla Lane, Olj-mpia Fields, III. 60461 
INDUNA 
Calumet District — Robert J. Welsh, Jr.. '56, 7000 Chicago Ave., Gary, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—James F. Hallican, 
•32, 303 Wysor Bldg., Muncie, Ind. EUAart — James D. Ash, '33, 1151 Strong Ave., Elkhart, Ind. 
Fart Wayne — John A. Haley, Jr., '51, 6735 Hillonia Dr., Fort Waj-ne, Ind. 46809 
Indianapolis—Richartl F. McNamara, '54, 1 Bennett Rd., Cannel, Ind. 46032. 
Michigan City—l.can A. Dargb, '59, Merdiants National Bank, 515 Franklin St., Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph I'oBej—Edw-ard J. Gray, '52, 645 First Bank Bldg., South Bend, Ind. 
Terre Haute — Michael H. Keams, '60. 1642 S. 5tb St., Tcrrc Haute, Ind. 
Tri-State—Joseph H. Harrison, '52, 500 S. Alvord, EransvUle, Ind. 
IOWA 
Burlmjlon — Joseph Ridge, '53, 1721 West Acres, Burlington, Iowa. 
Des Moines—Anthony M. Critelli '52, 619 Savings & Loan Bldg., Des Moines, Iowa 50309. 
Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Festina, Inwa. 
Sioux-Land — Raymond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline) — Peter H. Lousbers, '56. 1808 Third Ave., Rock Island, lU. 
KANSAS 
Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. So/mo—Albert J. McLean, '31, 1410 Higbbnd Ave., Salina, Kan. Wichita — Ted J. McDonald, '59, 1829 Han-ard, Wichita, Kan. 
KENTUCKY 
William J. Sherman, Jr., '58, 2710 Ricdiing Dr., Louisville, Ky. 40206 
LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—Edtvnrd F. SpoH, Jr., '34, United Fruit Co.. 321 St. Charles Ave., New Oneass, La. 70112 , . 
Northern Louisiana—^Dr. EduTud R. iforgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., Shrcveport, La. 
MAINE 

Anthony E. Silra, '56, 224 Walnut St., South Fortland, Maine. 
MARYLAND 

Baltimore — Anthony M. &liIeto, '61, 5515 Da)-walt Ave., Baltimore 6, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County — Alfred J. Bzdula, '49, 87 Kittredge Rd., Pittsfield, Mass. 
Boj/on — Robert L. Marr, '58, 34 Melrose St., Boston, Mass. 02116 
Pioneer VaUey — William A. Hurley, '28. 33 Ehn St., Springfield, Mass. 01103 • H H 
MICHIGAN 

Battle Creet—Raymond R. AHen, 40, 1009 Security National Bank Bldg., Battle Creek, Mich. 
Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, NUes. Mich. Blue Water District — William L. 
Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port 
Huron, Mich. 

Dearborn—^VVilliam A. Dosmaim, '53, 610 Betty t:inc, Inkster, Mich. 48141 
Detroil—John C. Murray, '57, 1690 Bournemouth, Grosse Pointe 36, Mich. 
Flinl —Alfred Mansour, '51, G-4295 Corunna Kd., Flint, Afich. 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, *40, Wright & Zinn, KGcbaels Bldg. Ironwood. Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
—H. Edward Prcin, '55, 4991 Bluff 
Dr., N.E., Grand Rapids. Mich. 
Hiawathaland — Donald T. Trottier, '44. 604 Ludington St., Escanaba, Mich. 
Jackson — Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — Frank G. Keisjes, '30, 1202 South Westnedge Ave., Kakimazoo, Mich. 
Lansina — John F. Powers. '55, 1500 
W. Washtenaw Ave., Lansing. Mich. .lfonroe---Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 Rivcrview, Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Reneer St., Muskegon, Mich. 
Northland—^Hcnry J. Lauerman, '23, 1975 Riverside Ave., Marinette, Wis. Saginaw Valley — Lawrence A. Smith, '31. 1305 Avalon, Saginaw, Mich. 48603 
Top o/ Michigan — Edward L. Molo­ney, '17, 416 East State St . Che­boygan, Mich. 
MINNESOTA 

Twin Cities—Thotaas H. Slahl, '54, 2801 Wajiata Blvd., Minneapolis, Minn. 55405 
MISSISSIPPI 

William H. Sliller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI 

Kansas Cil)—Charles L. O'Neill. '57, 6820 Dclmar, Shawnee jhfission, Kansas. 
St. Louis —O. Jerry McGIynn, '60, 8322 Kingsbury, Clayton 5, Mo. 
MONTANA 

Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 — U Ave., Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA 

Omaha and CouncU Btuffs—Thomas 
A. Walsh, Jr.. '42, 9301 Dodge St.. 
NEW MEXICO 
Wnliam B. Benedick, '54, 4601 Kunes Ave., Albuquerque, N.M. 
NEW YORK 
Albany — Frank E. O'Brien, '58, 99 Brookhne Ave., Albany, N.V. Buffalo — Eugene P. O'Connor. '56. 68 Fairbanks, Buffalo, N.Y. 14223 
Central — John G. Cuddy, Jr., '55 164 Winding Way, Camillus. N.Y 13031 
Golden Circle—Jama F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley — Thomas E. Digan, '52, 40 Fuller Lane, Hyde Park, N.Y. ' 
Mohawk Valley—Michad J. McGuirl, '49. 171 Roosevelt Dr., Utica, N.Y, New York City—Gordon L. Forester, '47, 24 Ward Ave., Weslbury, N.Y. Rochester ~ Vincent E. Dollard, '39, 160 Kings Gate, North, Rochester 
Schenectady—Roitcit J. Cichocki, '56, 
272 Closson Rd., Scotia, N.Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York." Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, 
'34. 201 Federation Bldg., Elmira, 
N.Y. 
Triple Cities—Thomas A. Aluscatcllo, '49. 8 Marilyn Ave,, Binghamton, N.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 
Donald J. Kelsey, '48, 1115 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 
Willbm Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, N.D. 
OHIO 
.dlron—James D. Dettling. '61, 230 Dorchester Rd., Akron 13. Ohio. Canton — Robert A. Richard, '56, 
1103 Manor Ave. S.W., Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati—Charles J. Lima, Jr., '58, 2541 Ridgecliff, Cincinnati 12. 01i"o. Cleveland—Robert T. Lally, '50. 2976 Lincoln Blvd., Cleveland 18, Ohio. 
Columbus—Michael J. Hoffman, '55, 3389 Calumet, Columbus, Ohio 43214 
Doylon—John C. Telian Jr., '57. 610 Hulman Bldg., Dayton, Ohio 45402 Hamilton—^Jerome A. Ryan, '4l, 353 South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. 
Mansfield — George F. Kavanaugh, 
•31. 584 Clifton Blvd., Mansfield, Ohio. Northwestern—Leo J. Hawk, '55, 625 Victory, Lima, Ohio. Ohio Valley—Robert R. Sincarich, '50, 134 Grant Ave., Wheeling, W. Va. Sandusky — Richard C. Holder. '47, 2603 Eastwood Dr.. Sandusky, Ohio. Timn — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 
Sycamore St., Tiifin, Ohio. Toledo — Paul M. Kraus, '54, 1724 
W. Bancroft, Toledo, Ohio. 
Youngstown—Slichael P. Lyden, Jr., *50, 4011 Cascade Dr., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma City — Walter A. Nashert, Jr., '54, 2601 Drakestonc, Okla­homa City, Okla. 
TUZJO—Bernard J. Sullivan. '39. 717 Kennedy Bldg., Tulsa. Okh. 74103 
OREGON 
Phn R. Meaney. '50, 223 Board of Trade Bldg., Portland, Ore. 
PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—^Dr. George W. Katter, '41, U.S. Bank Bldg. Johnstown. Pa. 
Erie — Richard T. McCormick, '55, 4425 Cherry St., Erie. Pa. 
Harrisburg—DonaJd R. Meek. '50, 520 Park Ave.. New Cumberbnd. Pa. Lehigh Valley — Thomas E. Maglll, 
'55, 821 S. Ott St., AUentown, Pa. 
Omaha, Neb. 
NEW JERSEY 

Central — John R. Mullen, '53, 
R.D. 3, Somerville, N.J. 

New Jersey 5Aore—Raymond M. Ticr­ney, Jr.. '54, 45 North Vale Ave., Little SUver. N.J. 
Ne-jo Jersey—Jama A. SeboM, Jr., '50. 507 Bloomficld Ave., Montdair, N.I. 
South Jersey — James B. Catvn. *56, 624 CUnton Ave., HaddonfieU, N.J. 
Monongahela Valley—^Louis W. Apone. '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Philadelphia —ynWiam A. Whiteside, Jr., '5), 7808 Cobden Rd., Lave­rock, Philadelphia 18, Fa. Pittsburgh — Paul A. Hudak. '51, 705 Fairview Ave., Pittsburgh 38, Pa. ^craitfoff—Eari E. Holmes, Jr., '54, 105 Behnont Ave., darks Green, Pa. Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

JAMES D. COONEY Assistant Alumni Secretary 
A
N INCREDIBLG aftemoon! Not that it occasioned events of world-shziking significance. The fact of the matter was that spring had sprung on the campus, and it interfered mightily with the business of this column, which is to report on noteworthy Club activity. 
It was a curious embryonic kind of spring after­noon that caught the campus with its leaves down, and drew aU the creatures of this place out of their winter cubicles. The library, where the turnstiles seldom rest, was sparsely populated this afternoon. Armies of athletes poured from the halls, shouting "TaUey-Ho," or whatever it is one shouts when one is a rugger, sculler, or devotee of lacrosse. A Turn to Fancy. Curiosity drew the more contempla­tive to the edge of St. Mary's Lake to ascertain how its denizens had survived the winter-long hockey match overhead. Peering through rays of winter murk, one spotted, of aU things, a school of goldfish lazing at water's edge. A disheveled muskrat rumbled along the periphery, thoroughly skeptical of the sea­son's promise, and collided with a napping turtle. 
A co-ex couple, arm-in-arm, and grotto-bound stop to chat with a bundled, aging priest. Across the main quad, frantic activity envelopes the Center for Con­tinuing Education as dedication day looms. Prof. O'Malley nods "Good day," and dubs the Center "the loveliest structure for taste, grace and imagination since the building of the Lyon's Hall arch." 
Teams of groundskeepers scratch a little circula­tion into the truant earth around Sorin's statue. And one makes a note to be sure not to miss this year's brief explosion of magnolias before the Main Building. Before ducking inside, one last, deep draught of the 
spring afternoon, a final glance at the Dome 2 ^ and Golden Lady set against a periwinkle sky, ^ * and then, back to more practical matters. 
And to Chicago, Philadelphia . . . The crash of a tri-motor plane on a hill near Bazaar, Kansas in March of 1931 ended the life of Knute Kenneth 
young 
Rockne, and an era at Notre Dame. But, the memory has lingered on. And today, 35 years 
man's 
after his death, the image of the man as scientist, educator, strategist non-pareil, master psychologist, and friend of boys, remains vibrant and undiminished. 
The past several months, Notre Dame Clubs from coast to coast have honored the memory of the "Rock" 
heart 
Et Paso—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 '55, 822 Fiunklin St., Williamsport, tl'illiamsliort — Joseph F. Orso, Jr., 
Oli\-ia Circle, EI PXTO, Tctas. Pa. 
Hoiulon—Robert F. Dillon, '48. 5418 Winsome Lane, Houston 42, Texas. RHODE ISLAND Midland-Odessa — John L. O'Hcrn, 
'37, 1001 W. 23, Odessa, Texas., 
AND SOUTHEASTERN 

San Antonio — S. Chilton Maverick, MASSACHUSETTS '61, 110 Auditorium Circle, San 
Francis J. Conforti, *43, Education Antonio, Texas. Funds, Inc., 10 Dorrance St., Providence, R.I. 
UTAH 
SOUTH CAROLINA Don J. Roncy. '38, 320 East Fourth, Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Salt Lake City 8, Utah. Dr., Westwood, Charleston, S.C. 
VIRGINIA TENNESSEE 
Chattanooga — Edward F. Davis, '43, Charles A. LaFratta. '47, 1301 Alsatia 506 Barrinston, Signal Mountain, Dr., Richmond, Va. Tean. Tidewater—VWiWp L. Russo, '49, 153 
Memphis — Roy E. Gillia, '56, Peat Cedar Ln., Lynnharen, Va. Manrick MitchtU & Co., 2500 Sterick BIdg., Memphis, Tenn. 
WASHINGTON 
NashuilU — James C. Grcenwell, Jr., '54, Armco Steel Corp., 633 Thomp­Spokane—Dr. D. Curran Higgins, '49, son Lane, Nashville, Tenn. S. 1103 Wall St., Spokane, Wash. 
99203 TEXAS Western — Alex S. Toth, '49, 4327 floHoj—Fred A. Eichom, '47, 2708 Second Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, Southwood Dr., Dallas, Texas 75233 Wash. 

ALUMNUS MARCH 19M APRIL 
by means of award pre­sentation ceremonies in hi& name, as weU as memorial Masses. In South Bend, one of his "Horsemen," now the Honorable Donald 
C. Miller of Clevdand, Ohio recalled his days with Rockne during a Commu­nion Breakfast at the Mor­ris Inn on campus. The Cleveland, Chicago and Philadelpbia dubs, among others, celebrated Rockne Awards nights, in Phila­delphia, nearly 200 stalwart souls braved a howling blizzard to reach the festivities. Head Coach Ara Parseghian, the guest of honor, Eurived in the nick of time after his airliner hassled with a few snow clouds. The Knute Rockne Memorial Trophy went to hefty Harry Boyd from West Catholic High SchooL Innovations. A new twist to Club sports activity, and a highly commendable one, is reported by the Notre Dame Clubs of New York City and New Jersey. The combined groups hosted a contingent of Boys' Town, New Jersey athletes at the ND-NYU basketball game in Madison Square Garden, Feb. 18. Coach Dee's squad was less than razor sharp that night, but the youngsters couldn't have cared less. Disappointment at ND's performance was quickly vEmquished by heap­ing portions of hotdogs, candy and popcorn. Dee's forces were vanquished too, 105-78. 
Closer community ties and increased recognition are obvious by-products of a recent Cinciimatl Club function. The first presentation of the 'T>ome Award" was made at its 20th Annual Scholarship and Foundation Ball. It honored local television person­ality Ruth Lyons as a woman whose tireless efforts on behalf of hospitalized children best perpetuate the true spirit of Christmas. Miss Lyons' annual fund drive, now in its 27th year, has netted over $4.5 million. 
The Chicago Club recognized that city's new archbishop, John Patrick Cody as the "Cleric of the Year" at its annual Communion Breakfast, Feb. 
6. The £irchbishop's acceptance remarks underscored the need for increased lay activity in Church affairs. In the age of "aggiornamento," the archbishop said, the role of the layman must and will grow in prom­inence. Four hundred Alumni, their fcmulies and friends attended. 
And then, there is the season now upon us .. . an incredible spring to you! 
^VEST VIRGINIA FOREIGN CLUBS 
Cyril XL Reich. '39, 903 S. Drew St., Bengal, India—Rev. Frank J. Burton, St. Albans. W.Va. CS.C. '33. Notre Dame College, 
Central — John D. Julian, '40, P.O. 
Dacca-2-, East Pakistan. 
Box 2063, Clarkshurs, W.Va. 

Canada — Paul H. LaFiamboise, '34. St. Hilaire Rouville Co., 212 Blvd. ^VISCONSIN Richelieu, Quebec, Canada. 
Fox River Valley—Robert J. Simkins, Chile — Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, '56, 400 S. Douglas, Appleton, Wise. C.S.C., '42, St. Geone's College, 54912 Aven, Pedro dc Valdivia 1423, San-
Green Bay—Dr. Daniel W. Shea. '48, tbco, Chile. 718 E. Cass St., Green Bay._Wlsc. Manila — Lawrence J. Gotuaco, '54, La Crosse—^Thomas E. Jacb, '56. 336 P.O. Box 1132. Maniki, Philippines. 
E. JcfTcrson St.. Caledonia, Minn. Mexico City—Tclmo De Landexo, '37, A/«rri(;—Augustus H. Stance. '27, 102 Eugenia Sue No. 220, Mexico Ctr, 
S. Prospect St., Merrill, Wise Mexico. 
Milwaukee—^John A. Schlocgel, '54, Panama — Lorenzo Rnmagoza, *45, 5976 N. Bay Ridge Ave., Mil­P. O. Box 8307, Piinama 7. Panama. waukee, Wis. 53217 Ptni—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, 
Northwest Witeonsin — Ben M. Siri-T.:ma, Peru. anni, Jr., '60, 2719 Keith St., Eau Puerto Rico—Julio Vizcarrondo, Jr., Claire, Wise 54701 '56, P.O. Box 90M, Santuice, 
South Central — Bernard S. Mixtacki, Puerto Rico. '50, 6303 Sylvan Ln., Madison, Rome — Vincent G. McAIoon, "34, Wise 53716. (Secretary), Palazzo Branrarrio. 
Largo Brancacdo, 82, Rome^ Italr. ^VYOMING Tokyo—^Rev. Peter T. Moriwab, S.J., Patrick H. Meenan. '49, Midwest '65. Sophia Univeraty 7, Kiocbo. BIdg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. Chiyodak, Tokyo, Japan. 
AKRON = CHICAGO CLEVELAND 
Tlic annual frcsfiman father and son dinner was 
held in early September at Iacomini*s Restaurant. 
JIM DETTLING made the arrangcmcnu. Eight 
young men from the Akron area entered ND this 
fall. FR. JOE BARRY gave the new men some 
timely adncc. 
On Dec 8, our men and their wives gathered 
for corporate Mass and communion at Newman 
Hall on the Akron U. campus. Following the Mass, 
wc recited the rosary- for the repose of the soul of 
CHICK McGUCKIK who died that week. Dinner 
followed at Sangincttt's Restaurant. CHARLIE 
GREENE was Mass commentator, and FR. BARRY 
was celebrant and also led the rosar>-. 
The annual dance was again held at the City 
Club. This year's affair had a \-alentinc flavor and 
was on Feb. 12. EDDIE BUTLER was chairman 
for an evening of cocktails, steak-dinner and 
danclnS' 
Our treasurer of lo, these many years, J.\CK 
LANGE, has moved lo southern Indiana. Wc want 
to w-ish him the vcr^' best on his new job, and 
titanks for many contributions to the Club. TOM 
BOTZUM M-ill fill in as treasurer until the next 
election. 
—BILL L.\MMERS, Secretary 
BOSTON 
Tlic Christmas season brought limited actintics 
to the Notre Dame Club of Boston. President BOB 
M.\RR has planned an active schedule for the 
spring, which began with the ''ISfiS ND Foot­
ball Highlights" in late Febniary. 
The Club is extremely proud of member DICK. 
ilURPHY '58, two-time Bengal Bout cliamp, who 
received national recognition in Time magazine in 
Januarj- for his legal acliievcnients. Dick rei>rescnted 
a sailor who received a dishonorable disclmrgc in 
1946, and had the conviction set aside since he 
proved the man's constitutional rights were violated. 
Rumors have City Councilman BARRY HYNES 
*60, a likely candidate in the mayoralty race. 
The Boston Patriots will have a strong XD tinge 
ncct fall with the acquisition of JOHN HU.-VRTE 
'65 from the New York Jets and the signing of 

All-American DICK ARRLXGTON '66. who will 
join Boston's all league linebacker NICK BUONI­
COXTI '62. 
—J.-\CK L.\MERE '53, Secretary 

^^^ CALUMET DISTRICT ^^ ^ INDIANA 
Tlie Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region i%tis host to the ND Glee Club Feb. 4 at the Bishop Noll Insututc Auditorium. ANTHON-Y S. KU­ILARICH '35 was cliainnan for the event. Proceeds from llie concert netted a scholanihip for the Club's fund. 
The Club held a Comnmnion breakfast Marcli 6 at the Capuchin Seminarj" of St. Mary, northwest of Crown Point, Ind. Bishop Grutka celebrated the Mass and spoke at the breakfast. 
Future plans include Uni*"cfsal Notre Dame Night festivities for April 11 at PJiil Smidt Restaurant and the annual sports stag at St. Thomas More HaU, May 10. 
—TIMOTHY P. G.-\LVIN JR., Secretary 

^^ ^ CENTRAL JERSEY ^^^ 
The Central New Jersey Club initiated its 196G activities with a trip to Svw York Feb. 17 for iJjc Notre Damc-NYU basketball game. About 45 alumni and friends liad dinner at Leone's before the game. The entire trip was capablv handled by BILL RICHARDSON '55. 
PJans are proceeding ftnootldy for the annual Univ'crsal Notre Dame Night dinner to be held April 16 at tlic Pbinficid Countrj- Club. BILL CASH>L\N '60 and CHUCK COLLINS '55 are co^hairmen for this event. 
It is anticipated that liic annual golf outtng^ also will be held at the Phinficld Country Club in early June. D.WE COLLINS '56 is working hard on this. Wc expect to liavc final details on tlie golf outing for the next issue. 
President JACK MULLEN '53 is proceeding with plans for tlie establishment of tlie Club's scholarship fund, and it appears certain that the first rcdpient u^U be a member of the Class of ~ 1970. 
—HOWARD J. GILLESPIE '34, Vice-President, public relations 

On Sunday, Feb. 6, we held our annual Com­munion Breakfast at the Ambassador West Hotel. Almost 400 local Alumni, their wives and families, were on Itand to make the attendance at this event an all-time high. Chairman WALT ROGERS '4* is to be congratulated for an outstanding job. He \\-Ds ably assisted by MARK CRONIN '45 and JIM HAGGERTY '52. 
FATHER JOYCE represented the University and welcomed our guest of lionor, John Patrick Cody, archbishop of the .Archdiocese of Chicago. President PAT SH.ANNON '48 presented Archbishop Cody the Cleric of the Year Award from the Club, in recognition of his many accomplishments and for the d}-namic leadership lie lias given to the Archdiocese, 
Archbishop Cody gave a straightfonvard talk about the increasing importance of the role of the laity in church matters. He recounted that many times in the past he has been assisted by ND men and he looked forward to developing close associations with ND men in the Chicago area. He told how the concept of bringing the laity more and more into church maticis tt-as accented during the Second Vatican Council in Rome. Archbishop Cody said Catholic laymen will be called upon to help with school programs and other plans of the Arclidiocese, adding the Church is now in a spirit 
of rencual, and with tlic datmatic dtangcs taking 
place, the laity must be brought into positions of 
responsibility. 
The Annual Communion Breakfast is truly one of the finest events of the calendar year. Tliose Club members who were unable to attend this y*car should make a note to make every efl'ort to attend next year. It is a family aflfair, and one which the drives especially enjoy. 
It is with profound s>Tnpathy tJiat we note the passing of RAY DURST '26. Ray was one member of the Club whose continuing efforts in behalf of and de\-otion to the Club and the University can­not be exaggerated. He was a trustee of the Uniicrsity and former Chicago Ciub "Man of the Year." In 1953 he helped found the scholarship foundation of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago. He served as president of that foundation from 1962 to 1965. Ray also was Chicago chairman of tlic verj' successful Challenge I program. 
The next event on the Club activities' schedule is Universal Notre Dame Night which will be held May 2 at the Conrad Hilton Hotel. CItairman JACK GLE-ASON '36 and the members of liis committee arc hard at work, de\'cloping an excel­lent program. Further details on Universal Notre Dame Night will be forthcoming shortly, so start making plans now' to attend. 
—PAT MO.VTROY '53, Secretary 
CINCINNATI 

TIic Notre Dame CJub ol Greater Cincinnati Inaugurated the Dome Award at their 20th Annual Scholarship and Foundation Ball Dec. 28. Tlie new award will be given annually to the person judged to have done the most to perpetuate the true spirit of Christmas. Dome Au'ard winners arc selected by a committee composed of past recipients of the Alumni Association's ^tall of the Year Awtird. 
Cincinnati television personality Ruth Lyons was named for the first Dome Award because of her annual Christmas Fund drive for hospitalized children. In 26 years of the fund, Ruth has raised more than $4.5 million. Ninety hospitals in Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana have received money to equip playrooms and provide incubators, books and television sets. The au'ard was a ceramic golden dome, mounted on a white marble base. General cliairman for the award and ball was JOHN G. COTTLVGHANL ROBERT McaVFFERTY was ncc-chatnnan* 
CLERIC OF THE YEAR award was pre­sented fo Archbishop John P. Cody by the ND Club of Chicago at the organi­zation's annual Communion Breakfast, Feb. 6. Archbishop Cody is shown re­ceiving the award from Club President Patrick J. Shannon (left), and Break­fast Chairman Walt Rogers. 
The Annual Family Communion Breakfast tvas beld at Borromeo Seminary, Feb. 27, in conjunction with the St. Mary's College alumni of Cleveland. Alorc than 200 ND Alumni and their families turned out for this affair, arranged by ROBERT GOLDSCHMIDT and VINCENT DcCRANE. 
Ca.chairmen JACK McGRODER and JOHN 
REIDY JR. announced an informal dance and 
breakfast April 30 will mark the Universal Notre 
Dame Night festivities, to be held this year at the 
Hotel Statler. 
Keep this weekend open—^July 8, 9, and 10—for 
the Third Annual Midwest Cedar Point Festival! 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Secretary 

^^= COLORADO SPRINGS • 
A group from the Notre Dame Club of Colorado 
Springs journeyed to Denver for the ND-.Air Force 
Academy basketball game Jan. 8. Included in the 
group were MAL WAKIX '52 and wife Marian; 
CHARLIE SPICIvA '54 and wife Vema; and 
VINCE RAYMOND LLB '55 and wife, Mary Ann. 
The group joined the Denver ND Club to watch 
the game. JIM HILGER '56, president of the Den­
ver Club, made arrangements for a block of the 
best seats in the Denver Auditorium. A post-game 
party was enjoyed by both Clubs. 
Col. Victor Ferrari, professor of Air Force aero­space studies; Prof. Peter Grande, assistant dean of Students; Prof. .Anthony Sledle, assistant professor of education; and Prof. Kenneth Feathcrstonc, as­sistant professor of architecture from the University, along with 25 senior .Air Force ROTC Cadets, wVre guests of the Academy on Jan. 7, 8, and 9. Lt. Col. iULHAM .\f. WAKIN hosted the group during their \'i5it. Col. Ferrari was fonnerly the assistant to the dean of the faculty and deputy 
commandant of Cadets at the Air Force Academy. 
—VINCE.Vr J. RAYMOND JR., Secrctary 
DALUS 

January 16 wns Communion Sunday for the Notre Dame Alumni and families in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. The Dallas Catholic Choir, under the direction of Fr. Ralph March, sang beautifully at the high Mass celebrated at St. Thomas Aquinas Church by Fr. .MILAM JOSEPH '60. JOHN ROGERS, vice-president, made the arrangements for the breakfast following the Mass. 
The members of our Club wish to extend our personal congraiubtions to LANK SMITH who did such a commendable job in 1965 a» president of the ND Alumni Association. 
—ED FLEMING '63, Secretary 
= DEARBORN' 

Our annual dinner dance and raffle were held Jan. 22 at the Rotunda Countr>- Inn on beautiful pine Lake. Despite the very snowy weather, ther« was a very' good turnout, and, due to the fine job of BOB ^flSSEL, chairman of the event, those bra\'ing the weather had a wonderful time. 
In Fcbnian- BILL DeCRICK led a group of stalwarts to the ND-U of D basketball game in Detroit. The victorj' was cWcbrated by a number of the group including JERRY KELLY, DON MULLANEY and DICK KING together uith their wives at the Detroit Yacht Club. 
Our nonnal monthly meetings were held in January and February at GEORGE TOBIN and BILL DOSMANN's homes. At the latter, nomi­nations were made for election of ofHccrs for the ensuing year. 
—JIM KLINK '53, Secretary 
DECATUR, ILL. = 

Afost current ncu's to date has been the con­tinuccl monthly luncheons by our president, JOE DONOVAN. They have been attended by brothers BOB and JIM UHL; TONY JACKSON from Sulh\-an, BERNARD ifARTY, who retired from his vicc-prcsidenc>* of Union Carbon and Carbide January the first; PAT NOLAN; and JOHN DUNN. Dunn organized an early St. Patrick*s Day celebration in conjunction with community's Decatur Club's social calendar. The dinner dance was held at that CUib March 12. 
—STEPHEN G. GRALIKER, Secretary 
DETROIT 
The Notre Dame Chib of Detroit rcscr\'cd a 

block of lickcls for the ND-U. of Detroit basketball 
game February 12. Following the game a reception 
\vas held for Coach JOHNN'Y DEE and his team. 
February* 25, 26 and 27 the Annual Notre Dame 

Retreat at ^Ian^csa was held. Rev. Bernard J. 
Wcrnert, S.J., the Retreat House's spiritual di­
rector, accommodated 49 Alumni and friends of 
ND. Rev. John A. McGrail, S.J. gave the retreat. 
ERIE = 

The Notre Dame Club of Eric had a busy first \veek of February. February 6 was proclaimed "RICH ARRINGTON Day" by Ma>'or Louis Tullio. The highlight of the day was a testimonial dinner and reception for Rich. Hundreds of friends both from Erie and out of town paid tribute to Rich. NICK EDDY and Coach JOHN RAY rep­resented the University, and both honored Rich by sa>*ing a few words about him. Co-chairmen NORM BEECHER and BILL BR/\DBENDER did a splendid job setting up this affair. Among those who attended were: ^lessrs. & Mmcs. JOSEPH BARBER '36, BOB BARBER '-10, THO.MAS BATES '60, LEO BRUGGER SR '34, LEO BRUGGER JR *61, HOWARD ESSICKS '41, THOMAS GALLAGHER '55, WILLIAM GRANT '45, EDWARD KERN '56, HERB KERN '54, JAMES MAHONEY '51, JOHN McCORMICK JR '53, RICHARD McCORMICK '55, TIM Mc-COianC K '57, JOHN McCORMICK SR Hon. '17, LOUIS SHIOLENO '49, FRANK RILEY '58, HOOT SCULLY '47, ANTHONY ZAMBROSKI '52 and JOHN YOUNG '51. Also attending were: MIKE McCOR^^CK '61, Judge TOM BARBER '24 and Judge JAMES DWYER '37, JOHN PALMISANO '55. ED WITT.MANN, and many. many more people, too numerous to mention. 
Bill Sullivan, president of the American Football League and also president of the Boston Patriots, was on hand to honor Rich. Rich of course is Mr. SuIH\'an's new bonus beauty. Mr. Sullivan claims he and his coaches have big plans for Rich. Rt. Rev. Msgr. Ennts A. Connelly gave the invoca­tion and Rev. A. B. Addams the benediction for the afTaJr. The highlight of the day came when the modest Arrington stepped to the microphone. He tliankcd everyone for coming to honor him and for the many gifts he received. 
As the program came to a close the audience sang the music of "Arrington, That's Him," a song written to the words of "Ilarrtgan, That's Mc'* by East High Music Director Earl Johnson. 
—LEO J. BRUGGER, Secretary 
FAIRFIELD COUNTY. CONNECTICUT 

The University of Notre Dame Alumni Club of Fairfield County. Conn, held a reorganization meeting for the election of officers and the dis­position of other business at the Red Coach Grill in Darien on Tuesday evening, February 22. 
The following men were elected to fill posts through September 1967: President GORDON J. DiRENZO '56, Vice-president LLOYD J. FOR­RESTAL '52, Secretary ROY A. JANN '48 and Treasurer ERNEST W. BUCKLEY '53. 
Tentative plans were made for a cocktail party on Laetarc Sunday, March 20, and for a dinner, at a later date, to commemorate Universal Notre Dame Night-
Wc arc confident that the Notre Dame Club of Fairfield County is off to a very active and out­standing future. All alumni in the area are urged to attend future functions. New Alumm moving into the area should contact the secretary for in­formation. Roy A. Jann. 5 Shcrley Place, Fairfield, Connecticut. 
—ROY A. JANN '48, Secretary 
•FT. LAUDERDALE 

The second half of the "Soaring-Sixties" was inaugurated with the first showing in Florida of 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL TV PERSONALITY RUTH LYONS of the Crosley Broadcasting Corp.'s WLW "SO­SO Club" was presented the ND Club of Cincinnati's first annual Dome Award. Shown with Miss Lyons on her Dec. 29 daytime show is Crosley President John 
T. Murphy (center) and John T. Cottinghom, ND Foundation city chairman. The award, presented annually to the person fudged to have done the most to perpetuate the spirit of Christmas, was mode to Miss Lyons for her outstanding achievement of raising nearly $4 million for hospitalized children. 
the "1965 Notre Dame Football Highlights." The 
highly exciting films, especially the pLij-s showing 
Ft. Lauderdale's ou-n BILL ZLOCH '66, were 
enjoyed by FRED ZLOCH and sons, as well as 
FR/\NK CAREY '46, TI.M MAUS '57 and 
GEORGE ERNST '29. After a successful year as 
president, GEORGE PATTERSON '58 handed the 
president's gavel over to the capable hands of BOB 
BLAIKIE '56. 
1966 continues to be an exciting year for all ND 
men in the Ft. Lauderdale area. BILL THEIS '60 
and committee arranged a St. Valentine's Day cele­
bration at fabulous Pompano Park Harness Track, 
the world's most beautiful racing track. One of the 
feature events was the University of Notre Dame 
Race. 
The annual St. Patrick's Day dinner and dance 
honored CHARLIE OVLLAHAN '38, our latest 
honorary member in the Ft. Lauderdale Ahimni 
Club and the new Miami Dolphins publicity di­
rector. Chairman TOM WALKER *42 arranged to 
have Joe Thomas, the Miami Dolphins personnel 
director, as a guest speaker. 
—JIM MOTSETT '63. Secretary 

^^^ ^ FT. WAYNE, IND. ^^ ^ 
The Fort Wayne Club held a "Get Re-acquainted Night" on Feb. 17 at the K of C Hall. TOM PAGNA, assistant ND football coach, was the speaker. 
Tentative plans for the year include: UND Night in April, a summer picnic, "Back to School" party in September, fall stag in late October and Com­munion breakfast in December. 
INDIANAPOLIS ^^^ ^ 

Universal Notre Dame Night will be held April 13 at the Indianapolis Athletic Club. Rev. JOHN 
E. WALSH CSC, the University's \-ice-presidcnt for academic affairs, will be the main speaker. JIM U'ELCII '50 is the general cliaiiTnan for the affair. 
Wc arc pleased to announce tliat Shirley and LEO BARNHORST are the proud parents of a boy bom early in Januarj*. 
The local Alumni \vcrc out in force to support the basketball team at Hinkcl Fieldhouse against Butler. We hope wc have better luck next year. JOHN MEYER '65 is now an Indianapolis resident between seasons with the St. Louis NFL team. 
All here in Indianapoh's congratulate Dr. THOMAS P. a\RNEY '37 upon his election as Alumni /\ssociation president. 
—BOB KANE '50, Secretary 

^^ ^ KANSAS CITY, MO. ^^ ^ AND KANSAS 
On Fcbniary 10, the Notre Danic Club of Kansas City held an ND Sports Night, an event which may become an annual occurrence. With JAMES DcCOURSEY '54 as cliairman, the evening in­
cluded a dinner held in the Schlitz Brow*n Bottle 
Room with entertainment by the Merry Mugs, a 
local barbershop quartet. The feature of the e\'c­
ning, houct-er, «as the shou-ing of the 1965 Notre 
Dame "Football Highlights" with narration by 
D.-WE MARTIN of Kansas City, presently a 
sophomore student at ND and last season's first-
string comer linebacker. Wc regret that nearly 
100 checks had to be sent back but the room ifaz 
just too small to accommodate the crowd. 
Last minute touches arc being made on plans for 
the 1966 Universal Notre Dame Night, this year 
under the direction of BOB METZLER '44. The 
dinner, to be held April 11, will feature Ara 
Parscgliian, the University's head football coach ax 
speaker. New officers to be installed that evening 
are: President CH.\RLES O'NEILL '58; Vice-
presidents RICHARD PREZEBEL '35 and BILL 
UNG^VSHICK '43; Secretary TO.M FLE.MING '59; 
and Treasurer TOM McKEON '54. 
In conclusion we wish to extend our sincere 
thanks to HAROLD SOLOMON '47, outgoing 
president of the ND Club of Kansas City, for the 
splendid effort and untiring energ>- which he lias 
displayed in his scr\'icc to the members. 
—AHCHAEL J. HOGAN, Sccrctarr 
KENTUCKY = 

The Notre Damc-Kcntucky basketball game was a depressing one. The *'Fighting Irish" gave a tremendous effort in the first half, but Kentucky pulled away in the second. Wait till next year!! The social hour during halftime and after the game was ver>- successful. 
UND Night will be April 13; wc will be privi­leged to have as our guest speaker Rev. EDMUND 
P. JOYCE CSC the University's executive Vice-
president. —JOHN HUBBUCH '61, Secretary 
. LOS ANGELES ^^^ ^ 
Late-summer and fall liave found the Los Angeles Club sponsoring five events, with a near hit for a sLxth. The annual Club picnic was held in late August at St. Vincent dc Paul camp in nearby San Fernando Valley. With JOSE ALEXANDER '62 as chairman, many of the younger alumm and alumnae enjoyed the \'arious facilities available. Among those Club members were: LOWELL TI IE.\RD '60, BEN SALVATY '32. BUD SALVATY '62, JACK SKEEHAN '32, DON PETERS '55, CHUCK DAVIS '50, and JACK STEWART '59. 
Tlic week before Labor Day, the Annual Fresh­man Send-Off x^-as held at the Hollywood-Roose­velt Hotel with the aid of JOH.V KIRSCH '37 who acted as our host in his capacity as general manager of the hotel. Approximately 25 matriculat­ing freshmen and their parents were our guests for the evening. Rev. JAMES SHILTS CSC, rector of Sorin Hall, represented the University at the affair with BOB GERVAIS '55 and TOM 
SPORTS NIGHT for the ND Club of Kansas City was held Feb. ?0 at the Schh'tz Brown Bottle Room. Feature of the evening was the showing of the 1965 ND Football Highlights narrated by Dave Martin *68 (center), varsity linebacker. Pictured with Dave are Harold Solomon '47, Club president; Mr. and Mrs. K. H. Martin, Dave*s parents; and James DeCoursey, Sports Night chairman. 
GETZIXGER '52 acting as co-chairmen. Among 
those assisting in describing the University to the 
gatliering were: BILL DILHOEFER '42, ED 
FOX '55, and BOB KEELEY '62, the latter taking 
time oil from the U. of California's International 
Relations School to attend the affair. 
Two weeks later, Club members winged north on two Boeing 720's to San Francisco for the ND-Califomia game. A great time was had by all, no small part of which was due to the efforts of the trip co-chainnen LEO TURGEO.V MD '42 and GENE CALHOUN "33, and trip co-ordinator TOM ASHE '25. After landing at San Francisco International, the group proceeded to the St. Francis Hotel, our quarters for the Weekend. Fri­day evening was occupied by a pre-gamc rally and cocktail party sponsored by the Los Angeles Club at the St. Francis. This %\-as followed by the pre­game rally sponsored by the Northern California Club at the Shcraton-Palace. Tlic trip across the Bay to Berkeley was as enjoj-able as the 48-6 game victory. A post-game victory party in Berkeley was attended by several members, including JOHN FRAMPTON *4a. Saturday night found members of the group at many of the nationally famous rcstaumnts in San Francisco including those on Fisherman's Wliarf, followed by visits to llie Top of the Mark or the Fairmont Roof. Members celebrating tlie aftcmoon^s xictory included: BILL RELPH '55, TOM EG.\N '51, JIM GILLIS '51, LOU BERARDI '37, CHRIS COHAN '54, AL TRIBIO '35, BOB KEELEV '34, and ^HKE ilACKLN '64. Old St. Mary's clmrch in China­town was the setting for Sunday-morning Mass, w'licrc the mode of tmnsportation was primarily cable car. Sunday afternoon was rescn'cd for sightseeing, but sc\-eral addicts, including this writer, took in tlic 49'cr-Bcar football game at Kczar Stadium. 
Saturday, Oct. 23, was ilic date for the fint TV game party cx'cr sponsored by the Club. To say the least, it was a resounding success. The event flourished, not only from tlie ND win over Southern California, but also in the enthusiastic attendance, despite the 10:30 p.m. kick-off and 102'' tempera­ture. Chairman BUD SALVATY '62 planned the event to perfection, positioning six color TV screens adjacent to the refreshments and food under **the swlajing palms." The enthusiasm of the group cu>uld be likened to that at ND Stadium because hardly a w*ord of tlic audio portion of the program could be heard over the fJiecring of tlie assembled crowd. Among those in attendance were: MIKE GREELY '61, AL WELZENBACH '29, VIC GRABOWSKI '62, GERRY TRAFACANDA '58, CHARLIE MURPHY '28. JOHN O'HARA MD '54, STEVE FINAN '37, JIM HE.\VY '59, Judge CARBERRY '28, TOM POWERS '56, FR.\.\K CONAT Y '43, and many, many otiicis. Tlie morn­ing was topped off by a telegram from MORT GOODMAN '30, back at South Bend, informing us that LEO TURGEON iH) '42 had been nomi­nated for the National Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. 
November w*as the month of the c\*ent tliat almost was, namely, the closed-circuit TV of the Michigan Sla(c-XD game- In two frantic daj-s, ammgemcnts were made to close-circuit the game into two xieuing pbces in Los Angeles, and one each in San Francisco and San Diego. It was a monumental task when the distances between South Bend and the West Coast are considered. Hoivci'er, all ivent for naught w*hen the NCAA disapproved our plans because of statutory reasons. To the committee that assisted me in those hectic two days goes a trc­mcndous vote of tlianks, i.e., TOM CREHAN '56 (legal), JIM GILLIS '51 (publicity), GENE CALHOUN '33 (business), and TOM POWERS '56 (Club affairs). 
The Annual Communion Breakfast was held the night of Dec 8 at the Roger Young Auditorium. Tfiis successful event was co-chaired by Rev. A. J. HEIN2ER CSC '41, director of the Family Theater and Club Chaphin, and TOM NEVILLE '55. Guest speakers included Mr. Tom Leuis, nationally known radio, telc\-ision and motion picture executive who spoke to us on '*The Church and Modem Com­munications," and John Shea. George Balzcr, Jack Benny's writer and an honorar>' Club member, acted as master of ceremonies. Among those in attendance >\cre; AL UNIACfC '63, BILL Mc-GR.ATH '42, ED SHIPSTEAD '60, ROS BOT­TUM '57, WALTER O'KEEFE '24, ART RYAN '25, BILL PATRICK. '40, and GARY COOPER '56. 
—BOB GERVAIS '55, President 
GREATER MIAMI 

The Alumni in the Greater Miami area have still not recovered from the visit of the Notre Dame football team and their tic ball game with the U. of ^fiami. Before said game our Club sponsored a gigantic ND Rally at the Dcauvillc Hotel and the response to this function was tre­mendous. Over 2,000 people ivcre in attendance to hear Rev. EDMU.ND P. JOYCE CSC, Athletic Director ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE and HUGH DEVORE. RAY POPP, JACK a\NANE and CHARLIE CALL.-\HAN, together with DON MURRAY, should he congratubtcd for the wonder­ful job in making this weekend the most successful tlie Club ever had. It will be dilHcult to match the job they performed for this affair, but already, we are making pbns for ND's return to ^liami in November 1967. 
During tlie month of December, we were very fortunate again to be rc-visited by Coach Ara Parscglitan, Assistant Coaches Paul Shoults and Richard "Doc" Urich, togctlier with six ND seniors who were participating in the North-South Shrine Game held in Miami. During their stay in Miami, tlie Club sponsored a cocktail party in their honor and over 90 Club members and their wives attended this function. We are looking for­ward to the possibility Coach Parseghian will rc-\isit us again as the appointed head coach of the annual Shrine Game. 
As evcr^'onc knows by this time, wie Iiave as our newest club member, CHARLES M. CAL­LAHAN, former director of sports publicity at ND. Charlie is the publicity director of the newly-formed American Football League team, the Miami 
Dolphins. At our February meeting, Charlie was 
our guest and Icaturcd-speaker lor an affair tliat 
was enjoyed by all. In addition, members were 
shou-n the "1965 FfKitball Highlights." Those in 
attendance were: DAVE RUSSELL; RAY POPP; 
BOB HAPLIN; DICK SADOWSKI; JIM MINIX; 
JACK BARRETT; BOB O'MALLEY; ROBERT 
REILLY; JOHN A. LEMMER (visitor from 
Michigan); PARIS COWART; MIKE GRAY; 
BILL MAZANEC; L I. PROBST; CHARLES O. 
MOLIEY; NICK MUELHAUPT; GEORGE F. 
KENNARD; RALPH E. HRUSKA, CHUCK 
NACKLEY; MURRAY NACKLEY; JACK 
CANANE; ROBERT PROBST and GEORGE F. 
HERO. (Ralph Hruska '39 is a new member from 
Oklahoma. Nick Muelhaiipt '52 is a ne^x' member 
from Chicago.) 
In April, tlie Club is sponsoring a dance in 
conjunction with the University of Notre Dame 
Night. In addition, we wtU welcome CHARLIE 
CALLAHAN and his wife to the Miami area. All 
Alumni arc welcome to attend. 
In January* new officers were elected. They are 
as follows: President, George F. Hero; 1st Vice 
President, David Russell; 2nd Vice President, 
George Kennard; Sccreiar>-, Chuck Nackle>'; 
Treasurer, Jim Sweeny. 
Ncwly-elcctcd directors are: Bob Probst, Jack 
Canane, Gene Jubicki, Paris Cowart, Cliarles 
Mahcr, Ray Popp and John Barrett. 
—GEORGE F. HERO, Pnsident 
NEW JERSEY 

The ND Clubs of New York and New Jersey arranged to secure two blocks of tickets for the ND-N'YU basketball game on Feb. 17. Tliey ako held an after-game reception for the team and Alumni at Loew's Midiown Motor Inn. The ND Club of New Jersey luid as their guests at the game 35 boy's representing the varsity and junior­\"arsity teams from Bo>-s' Town, Kearney, N.J. The boy's provided ND with a loud cheering section. Each boy \vziS treated with candy and peanuts and ^vcn $1.00 to spend as he saw Ht. It is the intention of the Club to make this trip an annual affair. 
^^^^ OMAHA AND ^^^^ COUNCIL BLUFFS 
The Notre Dame Club of Oinalia-Council Bluffs is initbting plans for the Universal Notre Dame Night to be held in tlic spring. It is the intention of the Omaha-Council Bluffs Club to invite—as their guests—a group of Notre Dame Alumni from the Lincoln, Nebraska area w*lio have recently fonned an Alumni Club. 
—JIM KINEEN, Secretary 
PALM BEACH COUNTY FLORIDA 

The Notre Dame Club of the Palm Beaches met on November 11, 1965. Officers elected.for the new year were: JOHN W. DELL '62, president; and JOHN HOEY '62, secretary-treasurer. The follow­ing mcmbcis were in attendance: BOB BALFE, SAM BUDNYK, DENNIS CLEARV, JAMES CLEARY JR., WILLIAM CLEARY, Dr. JAMES COONEY, JOHN DELL, DANIEL DOWNEY, JAMES C. DOWNEY, ERSKINE EDWARDS, ROME HARTiUN, CHEATHAM HODGES, J. 
P. HOEY, JOHN HOEY, JAMES KINTZ, ED­WARD LEWIS, GEORGE McDERMOTT, PAUL McDERMOTT, BERNARD O'HARA, ANDREW POWER, G. EARL QUATTELBAUM, JOH.V RUDD, JOSEPH VALANTIEJUS, and WILLIAM DWYER. Plans were discussed lor the forthcoming Notre Dame convention in West End, Bahamas which wilt be held on April 29 and 30, 1966. 
—JOHN DELL '62, President 
^ PEORIA, ILL. 

Our annual Back-to-School Dinnc*r was held Sept. 9, at Vonachens Junction. We had a fine turnout of Alumni, students and their fathers. Dr. GEORGE BEST *38 handled the arrangements and was able to engage the very capable Dr. EDWARD CRONIN '38, assistant Dean of fresh­man studies at ND, as our speaker. Special recog­nition was given to Dr. Edu-ard Ward who now has three sons attending ND—EDWARD '66, DAVID '68, and ERIC '69. DAVID WARD '68 was awaked a plaque for achieving the highest scholastic average of all Peoria-arca students during the past school year. 
The next affmr of the year was the ND Stag 
ALUMNUS MARCH 19 ^ APRIL 

which was held in October. We arc happy to report 
that this stag was a big financial success. Con­
gratulations arc due MAURY CICCIARELLI '55, 
cltairman ot the event, for his hard work. Tlianks 
also go to all those who helped in the planning 
and Uie work—TOM KELLY '56, JOHN SLEVIN 
'60, JOHN MANION '56, LOU ZUMBAHLEN 
M9, PAUL COOGAN *52, DENNY POWERS '56, 
BILL CLARK '47, DAVE THOMAS '62, BILL 
STOTZER *56, JIM McCOMB '54, BOB MAN­
NING '60, Dr. GEORGE BEST '38 and DENIS 
BERRY '56. 
On Dec. 5, tlic Club held its annual ND Com­munion Sunday at Bergan High School. Breakfast Was served in the school cafeteria following Mass. DENIS BERRY '56, chairman of the affair, was able to secure as the breakfast speaker, Mr. John yicGhcCy 3 Lay Theologian of ihc Peoria Diocese. There was a special treat for the children in the person of Miss Marg, a local TV personality on Romper Room Show. Marg is the wife of ^IIKE DENTINO '52. Tlie Dentinos have seven children of their own. 
At this wTiting, we arc looking fonrard to our annual St. Patrick's Day Dance. LOUIS ZUM­Bx\HLEN '49 chainnan. has planned a Dinner Dance for March 15 at Mt. Hawley Country Club. 
The early stages of planning have already started for the local Universal ND Night festivities on May n . DR. GEORGE BEST '38 has arranged as our speaker tlic vcr^' capable ND defensive coacli, JOHN RAY. 
Many of our Peoria area alumni have been very busy the past few montlis. Here arc just a fe^v notes on some of their actinties: the most recent cursillo included as candidates TONY BUSHELL '57, BILL CLARK '47, GENE SLEVIN '49, and BILL STOTZER '56. JOHN SLEVIN '60 served as rector while JOHN MANION '56 delivered the third roj-a entitled "TIic La>Tnan and the Churcli . . ." Recently moved to Peoria is JOHN HOFFER *61 and his family from Los Angeles. John is the trust officer at tlic Commercial National Bank. He and his wife, Jeanne, have three bo>'S and will probably have the fourth child by the time this is printed. John is originally from South Bend . . . JOH.V M^VNION '56 has been instru­mental in organizing a committee of civic, religious, and educational leaders to provide sex education information to parents and to make these parents aware of the ready availability of obscene literature to the youth of the community. 
DENNIS POWERS '56 u-as co-chairman of the Forgotten Patients Fund Raising Drive ove-r the holida>'S. This money is raised for the benefit of the patients of the Peoria State Hospital . . . TOM LISTOX '40 is now the executive vice-president of the National Retailers Association .. . FRANK MURPHY '18 recently retired after many years as the public relations director of Pabst Brewing Co. . . . Dr. GENE SULLIVAN '31 xccently was appointed the medical director of Caterpillar, East Peoria Plant . . . PETE VON­ACHEN '47 has announced plans to build a new 
Hyatt Lodge Motel. This will be a very fine 
addition to his now famous Vonachen's Junction 
Restaurant . . . special thanks go to ROBERT 
WARD '34 for supplying the Zip Codes for our 
mailing list. 
—DENIS BERRY '56, Secretary 
PHILADELPHIA ^^^^ 

Energetic BILL WHITESIDE was rc-elcctcd president of the Philadelphia Club, and immediately embarked on another series of projects to spread the fame and good name of Notre Dame through­out the Delaware Valley Area. Other ofHcers elected were GERARD A. VOIT, treasurer; ROBERT MITCHELL, secretar>-; JOHN HANNIGAN and JAMES T. GALLAGHER, vice-presidents; RICH­ARD LEBERMAN, assistant ti^casurer. Club governors, in addition to the officers, arc PAT­RICK KITTREDGE, JOHN VOIT, BARTON 
B. JOHNSON, JACK HENRY, QUENTlN C. STURM, JAMES A. VOIT, JAMES P. LEYDON and GEORGE V. MITCHELL JR. CLIFFORD 
E. PRODEHL is permanent chairman of the Board of Governors. 
Club members hailed President Whiteside's ac­complishment in securing REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC as Iionored guest for Universal Notre Dame Night on Tues., May 3. The ap­pearance of the University*s President is expected to bring out a record crowd. AMBROSE (BUD) DUDLEY will be chairman of the affair at the BelleVijc-Stmtford Hotel. 
Despite the winter's first blizzard, almost 200 turned out for the first Rockne Awards Dinner. Ara Parsegliian battled the elements and landed just in time for the affair, as did Harry Boyd, fine young tackle from West Catholic High School and recipient of the Knutc Rockne Memorial Trophy. Boyd was at ND on a visit and had to come from Baltimore by bus when his pbnc was side-tracked. We're hoping that Boyd will become the third straight winner of (he Rockne A«"ard to go to ND. The first two were JOHN PERGINE and BILL BrVRTHOLOMEW. JOHN HANNIGAN did a splendid job of handling the Au-ards Dinner, w*hich he hopes will become a major feature on the Phifadelphia sports calendar. 
A big ^veckend Is in the works for the Na\*y-ND game at Philadelphia, Oct. 29. Alumni from other cities who plan trips to the game may get infor­mation regarding the weekend events from Chair­man JOHN MOORHEAD. Write him at 433 Bokovcr Road, Wynnewood, Pa, 
—JI.Nf GALLAGHER, Vice-president 
RHODE ISLAND AND 
S.E. MASSACHUSEHS 

ED DENNING '50, PHIL TOOLE '52, JIM MURPHY '49 and BERNIE AIcSALLY '52 con­tributed much for the prospering economy of Neiv York City during the Army game weekend. JOE McDONALD '39, ANDY Mc^L\HON '35, Judge 
NEW YORK'S ST. PATRICK'S CATHEDRAL was the setting for the NYC Club's Annual Notre Dame Communion observance, Dec. 8. Among those attending the evenmg Mass and dinner affair were: John A. Hoyt Jr. '33, chairman and toostmaster; the Hon. William A. Walsh '96; Gordon Forester, president of the NYC ND Club; Rt. Rev. Edwin B. Broderick PA, rector of St. Joseph's Seminary; and Daniel J. O'Neil '25, founder of the Universal Communion Breakfast Program. 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
JOHN McKIERNAN »34 and FRANK CON­
FORTI '43 were also in town for the game. 
We had a go€»d croHtl at the closed<circuit view-
ins ot the Michigan State game (Boo!) and for the 
Glee Club Concert (Rah!). The latter event was 
held Nov. 28 at St, Mary's Academy, Bay View, 
with the proceeds presented to the Academy. As 
usual, the Club joined with the Association of 
Catholic College Alumnt m ohserving ND Com­
munion last December. Things arc rather qutet 
now, but plans will be made shortly for the usual 
spring activities. 
—BERNARD F. McSALLY '52, SecrctaiV 
PinSBURGH = 

On the weekend of Jan. 7, 8 and 9, the Club 
held its Annual Retreat at St. ^ul's Monastery. 
JOE TOTTEX and JACK .MONTEVERDE did 
an excellent job in making tlic arrangements. 
Seventy-eight persons attended. 
During the weekend of the ND>Michigan State 
game, the Club arranged for doscd-circuit TV of 
the game on Saturday afternoon at the Syria 
Afosquc in Oakland. A splendid turnout of 3.000 
persons crowded the Mosque for the game. This 
activity raised a generous sum of money which was 
contributed to the University's scholarship fund 
and to the building of the new Convocation 
Center. FRITZ ^VILSON. ED FAY, BILL Mc-
GOWAN and Club President PAUL HUDAK are 
to be congratulated for having done such a fine 
job in making the arrangements for this c\'ent. 
A stag dinner was held at the P^rk Schcnicy 
Restaurant, on Feb. 10. Approximately 100 persons 
attended. Following the dinner, films of the ND 
games of 1965 were shown. 
Arrangements are being made for UND Night 
April U at the Duqucsnc Club. Rev. EDMUND 
P. JOYCE CSC, executive vice-president of the University, will be our honored guest. Chairmen JACK HARFORD, GERRY TRAVIS andAIlKE AfcF-r\DDEX presently arc engaged in making the final arrangements for the dinner. New Club officers will be named that evening, and PETE FRIDAY will assume the duties of Club president. PAUL HUDAK, who has been our president for the past two j-ears, deserves the sincere tlianks and ap­preciation of the Club members for an outstanding job during his term as president. 
—MICHAEL J. BOYLE, Secretary 
'ROME = 

ND HOSPITALITY IN ROME: Our Hospitality 
Center is open every day. All comers Welcome. 
Address: Largo Brancaccio 82, Tel: 730.002. 
Christmas time brought to our door 45 ND sophomores from the ND-Innsbnick Sophomore-Year-Abroad Program. After midnight Mass at the ^'Station Church" of St. Mary Major, all hands returned to ND Center for cggnog and refresh­ments. Again at noon on Christmas folloiving Vaul VI's Mass, all gathered for turkey dinner at ND's dining rcndez\*ous, the Scoglio Di Frisio Restaurant next door. 
To boot, Fr. JOS. LOSIGNO, asst. prof, of theology arrived from South Bend with Football Captain JIM LYNCH '67, JIM CARMODY 66 and JOHN JACKOBOICE '66. They joined the soplis in attending the Papal audience where the ND delegation was announced and Alumnus Piiul VI '60 spoke personally with ROB HARVEY '68 and JOHN MOONEY '63, representing ND'ers in Rome. 
Other ND guests: DR. ROBERT JACKSON '30; Rev. CHESTER SOLETA CSC '38; Rev. JAMES BURTCHAELL CSC '56; Don and Mrs. McNeill, for ordination of son Rev. DON CSC '62 with son BOB '63 and wife Martha SMC '62; JOS. KEEFE '29 and son JEROME '62; Rc\-. FRANK GOODMAN '44; MICHAEL DAUGH­ERTY '62; JOHN ZAUGG '61; Br. FRANCESCO DRURY CSC '50; daughter (Pat, SMC '67) of BOB WALDECK '39; wife and son of BILL DOYLE '34; PROF. JAMES a\RBERRY '50 and JamUy; PROF. HARRY SAXE and family; DAN GUYETTE '42; MSGR. FRANCIS SMYTH MA '55; Fr. Land SJ, son of BILL IJVND, circa 1898; LARRY MURCHAN '66; and HARRISON PIERCE '65. 
Guests trom other colleges and universities in­cluded those from U. of Missouri, Cambridge, Ox­ford, Purdue, U. of California, La Salle, Mar^-bnd, Stonehilt, and St. Ed's. To the collection of 120 pennants have been added (unsolicited) Minnesota, Harvard, St. Michael's, Winooski Park, Vt. 
Wc now face our own special Roman annual Notre Dame Night, held faithfully on St. Patrick's Day. In our next report we will speak of the ''doubtful doin's" on that solemn occasion. 
—VLXCE McALOON '34, Sccrrtary 
39 
^^ ^ SAGINAW VALLEY ^^ ^ 
MICHIGAN 
TIic Club held its XD Communion observance 
Dec:. 5 at St. Stcplian Church, follou'cd bv break­
fast at the Holiday Inn. BILL HEXDRICK u-as 
chairman of this went which turned out 50 Alumni. 
A dues increase \vas voted in, along with dis­
cussion on the possibility of establishing a Saginaw 
Valley ND Scholanhip Fund. CARL DOOZAX 
was appointed to head up a committee further 
exploring the scholarship fund. Father ^L•\HOXEY, 
pastor of St. Stcplian Church, spoke briefly on the 
responsibilities of ND Alumm. Club ofiicers dis­
fnisscd the location of the forthcoming ND Family 
Communion Breakfast. 
—GE.\*E C-^SE JR '5G, Secretary 
ST. LOUIS = 
T!ie first event of 19G6 for the St. Louis Club 
was a staff night at tlie Hospitality House of 
Falstaff Brew'crj*. Tlic cx'ening, orsanizcd by TON*Y 
RIB.\UDO '5% included a tour of the brcv\cr>*, 
refreshments and snacks courtesy of FalstafT Brew­
ing Corp., and films of last year's football games. 
RICH CONNORS '63 helped Tony in the arrange­
ments, and cx-erj-onc enjoyed reliving the season 
play-by-play and tlie wonderful facilities provided 
by FalstafT. 
Wc would like to take this opportunity to thank 
TAL PO^\'ELL, a fellow board member, for all 
the work be has done for our Club and to extend 
our best uishcs to him and his family. Tal has 
been promoted and transferred by Shell Oil to 
their offices in NYC. I'm sure the New York Club 
will put Iiis energies to good use as soon as he 
gels settled. 
St. Patrick visited St. Louis early this year. Tlic occasion was the annual St. Patrick's Day Dance at Westborough Country- Club on Sat., March 12. JACK PO^VERS '55 and .MILT BE.-\UDI.VE *54 planned a very cnjoy-able evening for us. Jack Englcr's band played for dancing and then, as the night grew older, provided Irish song sheets. A great many ot us stayed to exercise our vocal cords for dear old Erin until early in the morning. 
The officers, board of directors, club members in general, in fact tlic whole city of St. Louis have already started planning for Universal Notre Dame Night, April 26. We arc extremely honored to have REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC as our guest for this evening. I'm sure it will be a most memorable e\*ening in St. Louis Club history*. Our next article will be devoted entirely to Universal Notre Dame Night. 
—JOE D^\'YER '58, Secretary 
i SAN DIEGO, CALIF. 
Tlte annua] dinner-dance, one of tlie more popular traditions of the San Diego Club, was held Feb. 19 with CHUCK VAXDERGRIFT '5G as chairman. 
Witli Club elections approaching, the nominating committee, headed by L. DON LOPKER '35, has proposed the following slate of nominees: for president, JOHN B. MORGAN 'W and JOHN A. MURPHY '51; vice-president. CH.\RLES F. VAN­DERGRIFT '5G and CLASSEN J. GRAMM '63; nicmbenhip secrelar>-, PHIL D. SHE-A JR. '49 and DONALD G. YECKEL '55: corresponding secretary-, CLEM O'NEILL '5G and JOHN C. YAVGRSKY '43; treasurer, JOII.N F. CIIIAK '60 and FRANK PRANTILO '59: and chaplain, Rt. Rev. .Msgr. FR.A.VCIS C. OTT '15. 
—DON.ALD G. YECKEL '53 Corresponding 
Secretary 
s SPOKANE, WASH.= 
Tlic Club held its annual Pot-Luck Supper on Feb. 8. The affair took place in the auditorium of the Inland Light & Power Co.. whose general manager is VINCE SLATT '43. Xlnce and his graciously capable \rifc, Peggy, engineered ihe whole thing. Tlic walls of the room \verc gaily decorated iritli full-size Icprecliauns, shamrocks, and cobeens. Following the sumptuous repast (which included Irish Stew!) prepared by our lovely ladies, DICK ST. JOH.N '56 shoued "1965 Notre Dame Football Highlights" as a wonderful climax to a most enjorablc evening. 
The follotring members with their wives and friends were present: ED BETIIKE '28, FRANK HERRON '55, Dr. CURRA.V HIGGI.VS '49, Dr. ROBERT JOHNSO-X '41, CLAIR KEARNS '33, Dr. BOB MAHER '35, Dr. DEE McGONIGLE '52, JACK XnCHAUD '48, G.ARY M^'ERS '59, LARRY MO.VTAG '53. JOHN O'.VEILL '29, BEN PENA '64, Dr. JIM ROTCHFORD '48, Sister MICHELLE FCSP '62, Sister F.ABIOLA 

FCSP '64, DICK ST. JOHN '56, \aXCE SLATT 
'43, BILL SPIELER '53, and JOE WALSH M4. 
Plans arc being made for another big Universal 

Notre Dame Night, with the hope for a campus 
figure as guest speaker. 
—JOE AVALSH '14, Secrciarj-Trcasurcr 
TERRE HAUTE, IND. 
The Notre Dame Club of Tcrre Haute held a 

dinner party for members of the Club, wives and 
guests on Saturday evening, Jan. 29. The dinner 
was held at Louise's Restaurant, and an Italian 
dinner was sen'ed. The attendance was tremendous 
—a full house. The highlight of the evening was 
the showing of the highlights of the past football 
season. President MIKE KEARNS ser\-cd as master 
of ceremonies. Co-chainnen for the event were 
ED HEBLER and JIM BOYER. 
This past December 12, the Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday. Chair­man DICK CRONIN arranged for the Club to attend Mass at Sacred Heart Church. Club Chaplain Rev. ED\VARD WETZEL CSC celebrated Afass and then addressed the Club at the breakfast following, wliicli Avas held in the Butterfly Room of the Terrc Haute House. 
President MIKE KEARNS announced that the 

Club is making plans for Universal Notre Dame 
Night to be held in April. 
The Club helped the student Mardi Gras at the 

University by selling raffle tickets for the annual 
affair. 
—JIM BOYER, Secretary 
: TOLEDO = 

At this time of the year our efforts primarily arc focused on future c\cnts. DICK MERKEL '56 and JIM SILK '53 are making plans for Universal Notre Dame Night which u-ill be held in April. Rev. JOHN E. WALSH CSC is expected to be guest speaker, and the XD "Man of the Year" Award wWl be presented. 
Also, wc arc investigating the possibility of participating in the forthcoming ND International Conference on the Tlieological Issues of Vatican II via closed-circuit TV from the campus. A special committee consisting of this writer, PAUL KRAUS '54 and JOE SANTOS '57 are contacting local religious and educational leaders seeking backing for this project, Wc arc optimistic tliat satisfactory arrangements can be made. 
Sorrj- to report that former Club President BILL THEES '57 is leaving us for a new position in Middlcton, Ohio. Bill also served on the Club board ol directors, and on every committee at one time or another. His participation in Club events ^rill be missed. \Vc all wish Bill well on his ne\v assignment. 
—BLAINE WILEY '57, Secretary 
^ UTAH = 

Tlie Notre Dame Alumni Club of Utah met Jan. 22 for cockta'ls and dinner. Featured %\'as the film, "1965 Notre Dame Foolball HighUghts." 
Approximately 25 Alumni, friends and .wvcs attended the affair at the Ncwhouse Hotel in Salt Lake City. The evening ^^-as graced by a surprise \-isit by His ExccPency Joseph L. Federal, bishop of the Salt Lake City Diocese. 
DON J. ROXEY, president of the Club, mod-crated the function, while LEONARD DI GIACOMO made the arrangements for the affair. 
—LEONARD DI GUCOMO, Secretary 

- WASHINGTON, D.C. ­
Head Coach Ara Paiscgluan and his able assist­ant, John Ray, received an appreciative welcome from the 'Washington, D.C. Club members when they addressed the Club meeting Jan. 12 in the International Ballroom East of the Washington Hilton. The "1965 Football Highlights" were shou-n. Tlie Club presented Ara with a clicck for $3,000 for the Univcisit>—the results of the successful closed-circuit telecast of the ND-^ficlli­gan State game. 
Pr^ident WALT BREXXAX lias appointed CLIFF LETCHER and JOE LIBBY to head up the nominating committee for the coming election of ofiicers. 
^ = WESTERN WASHINGTON ^ ^ 
The Western IVashington Chib held their annual ^fardi-Gras dance party, ably assisted by the Women's Auxiliary, in the Top of the Town Room at the Sorrento Hotel on Feb. 19. Fmn and OLLIE FLOR were co-chairmen for the affair. 
TOM .M.\Y is the chairman for U.N'D Xight, tentatively scheduled for April 18. 
S
CORES of prisoners in the Indi­ana State Prison at Michigan City have turned to law students as­sociated with the Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender Association for help in presenting motions for new trials and in preparing appeals from their sentences. 
Students working in the project, under the direction of John Fine, a second-year student from Scarsdale, N.Y., have also investigated such diverse things as denial of a prison­er's barber license and rights to civil damages for mistreatment be­fore trial. Arguments from student advocates are also presented to the Indiana Parole Board on behalf of prisoners' petitions for parole; one prisoner was released early this year after such a petition. 
Thomas G. Farrell, Jr., and Richard A. Muench, both second-year students (Mr. FarreU from Cambria Heights, N.Y., and Mr. Muench from Wilmette, HI.) are associate directors of the project. 
Professors Conrad Kellenberg and Thomas L. Shaffer assist students in representing prisoners, and other members of the faculty concern themselves with prisoner cases. Assistant Dean Thomas F. Broden, Jr., Professor G. Robert Blakey and Professor Shaffer, for instance, are now representing indigent petition­ers for habeas corpus in the federal courts. 
The project brings groups of stu­dents to the Indiana State Prison for 
ALUMNUS MARCH ^966 APRIL 

interviews and conferences with prisoners in the prison's "writ room" at regular intervals. They have found encouragement and coopera­tion from Warden Ward Lane and other prison oliicials, particularly from the charming lady physician, Dr. Else K. Bell, who tends the prison infirmary. Dr. Bell, an island of compassion in an other­wise dreary place, brings student and prisoner together in many cases, and even lends her office as a tem­porary law office for Notre Dame's legal defenders. 
New Calendar: The Law School wiU 
register its students for the fcdl se­
mester on Aug. 19, and begin classes 
on August 20. The new calendar 
aims at the completion of the ffirst 
semester—including all examinations 
—before the Christmas vacation. 
The second semester wiU begin on 
January 10 and be completed—^in­
cluding examinations—on May 11. 
This early completion date will allow graduating seniors to travel to the states of their intended practice in time to begin bar review courses. (The inability of Notre Dame students to compete evenly with graduates of eastern law schools, because Notre Dame stu­dents often enrolled in bar review courses a week or two weeks late, will be remedied by the new system.) 
bw SGlml 
Along with the new calendar, Dean Joseph O'Meara announced to the students in February that the Law School's comprehensive exam­ination system is being changed. Beginning with the fall, 1966 semes­ter examinations for members of the present first-year class, compre­hensive examinations will cover all past semesters (excluding the cur­rent semester) and will be given before the current-course e.xamin­ations. 
Civil Rights Conference: For the third time since 1960, the Law School sponsored a meeting of na­tionally-prominent scholars and gov­ernment officials on the subject of civil rights. 
The invitees met in the Morris Inn on February 17-20. Assistant Dean Broden made local arrangements. Conferees included Dean O'Meara and Rev. William C. Lewers C.S.C. of the ND Law School; Profs. Carl Auerbach (Minnesota), G. W. Foster, Jr. (Wisconsin), Vivian Henderson (president, Clark College), Dan Pollitt (North Carolina) and Daniel Thompson (DUlard); two attorneys; eight civil rights leaders; and gov­ernmental officials from all levels of federal, state and local government. Union-Management Conference: The 14th Annua l Union-Management Conference was held on campus Feb. 25, under the joint sponsorship of the University's Department of Economics and the Law School. Prof. John J. Broderick and Rev. Mark Fitzgerald C.S.C, were con­ference directors. 
High School Visit: The government classes from Prairie Heights High School, Lagrange County, Ind., visited the Law School, Feb. 8, and attended classes and discussed legal education with members of the faculty and students. The group was brought here by the High School Program of the Young Law­yers Section, Indiana State Bar Asso­ciation. Canon Law Seminar: One of the six elective seminars for third-year stu­dents this semester is a study of procedure in the matrimonial tri­bunals of the Roman Catholic Church, a course designed to prepare Notre Dame lawyers to assist clients in domestic relations cases which in­volve ecclesiastical adjudication. 
Prof. Piero L. Frattin of the Uni­versity's Department of Theology, Prof. John T. Noonan, Jr., and Prof. Robert E. Rodes, Jr. are directing the seminar. 
Professor Frattin, a layman, holds a doctoral degree in canon law from the Catholic University of America, a doctoral degree in comparative civil law from the Pontifical Lateran University, Rome, and is admitted to practice as an advocate before the Sacred Roman Rota. Faculty: The first of a projected series of informal evening meetings of the faculty was held in Dean O'Meara's home on March 2. The principal business was an account of Prof. Noonan's experiences in Home as historical consultant to the papal commission studying birth control. 
Prof. Noonan was one of three scholars named to the investigating committee of the American Associa­tion of University Professors which visited St. John's University in February. He was given the John Gilmary Shea prize of the American Catholic Historical Association for his book, CONTRACEPTION: A History of Its Treatment by the Catholic Theologians and Canonists. 
Professor Edward J. Murphy is one of a panel of moderators for the local television show, "The Pro­fessors," which features hour-long conversations on controversial topics. He chaired recent discussions on neighborhood school desegregation (featuring among others. Profs. Blakey and Rodes); obscenity (in­cluding Prof. Blakey); and the fed­eral income tax (including Prof. Roger Paul Peters and Mr. Charles Boynton, a lecturer in the Law School). 
Professor Emeritus William D. RoUison, now distinguished professor of law at the Cumberland Law School of Howard College, Birming­ham, is the author of "Some Modern Problems in Estate Planning" in the January, 1966 Alabama Lawyer. 
Profs. Rodes and Bljikey are special deputy prosecutors in two obscenity cases now pending in the criminal courts of St. Joseph County. Prof. Blakey will act as trial counsel in one case involving a Mishawaka news dealer. A group of law students have volunteered to assist in re­search for the case. 
Prof. Shaffer addressed the Solo Parents Club of South Bend on estate planning in one-parent families, and the South Bend Press Club on pre­trial prejudicial publicity in criminal cases. Alumni Notes: George Pelletier '61­'62L, who earned law degrees from Harvard Law School (LL.M.) and the University of Virginia (J.S.D.) after graduating from Notre Dame, has been appointed assistant pro­fessor of law at the Southern Methodist University School of Law in Dallas. Prof. Pelletier is serving his last months as a legal officer in the Army; he expects to begin to teach in the fall. 
Lt. Richard Lark '61L, an Air Force pilot now fiying combat mis­sions in Vietnam, was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for his heroic conduct in assisting ground troops with flares during a difficult military operation. His citation said that he guided a C-123 aircraft over mountainous terrain, in adverse weather and under intense ground fire, in order to drop flares around a special forces camp under attack by the Viet Cong. 
Clifford F. Brown '37-'38L, Nor­walk, Ohio has been elected to a six-year term as judge of the Court of Appeals of Ohio in Toledo. 
John R. Martzell '58-'61L has been appointed executive director of the Louisiana Commission on Human Relations, Rights, and Responsibili­ties, by the governor of Louisiana. 
by THOiMAS L SHAFFER 


ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
SPRING FOOTBALL: 
It Started in Miami 
Spring is the sweet smell of new 

growth, and the hot, sweaty smell 
of straining, working bodies.. It's 
the quiet whisper of an April 
shower, and the groEming, crunching 
contact of 200-pound halfbacks and 
250-pound linebackers. Spring at 
Notre Dame is football practice and 
the forecast of the season to come. 
Last year, someone said that the 

1966 season began in the locker 
room after the JMiami game. Un­
doubtedly true, but the theories be­
come actualities now, on Cartier 
Field, in spring practice. Until now. 
Coach Ara Parseghian had a lot of 
second and third stringers and 
freshmen on one hand, and a lot of 
empty holes in the first string 
varsity on the other. These are the 
moments of moving and remolding. 
This is the job of replacing an Ail-
American offensive guard and de­
fensive tackle, an AU-American de­
fensive safetyman, an entire de­
fensive backfield, most all the of­
fensive line, and of finding a quar­
terback. 
On the one hand, the problem facing Parseghian is offense. Grad­uation has sounded its toll, taking almost all the line, a halfback and the quarterback. From the remains, a weU-balanced offensive attack must be formulated. 
Part of this attack rests in the 

return of Nick Eddy, who led the 
team in rushing with 5S2 yards in 
115 carries (a 5.1-yard average), 
and fullback Larry Conjar, second 
in rushing with 534 yards in 137 
carries (for 3.9-yard average). Re­
turning in the offensive line, will be 
end Don Gmitter, guard Tom Reg­
ner and Dick Swatland, and center 
George Goeddeke. 
The signal-caller slot is currently occupied by Tom Schoen, the only quarterback with any game experi­ence, who will be a junior next fall. 
SCOREBOARD — 
BASKETBALL  
75  Lewis College  69  
79  Wisconsin  97  
110  St. Norbert  77  
69  Michigan Stale  93  
85  Bowling Green  77  
89  Boston College  93  
58  Indiana  80  
69  Kentucky  103  
73  Duke  95  
92  Purdue  109  
57  Air Force  68  
59  Creighton  72  

Tom's current collegiate passing record stands at 13 completions in 24 attempts for 229 yards. This is better than 52 percent accuracy. He has thrown for one touchdown and had one interception. 
On the defensive side of the coin, Parseghian will have to replace his entire defensive backfield: Tony Carey, Tom Longo and All-American Nick Rassas. Up front, however, the entire corps of linebackers will return: captain Jim Lynch, Pete Duranko, Tom Rhodes, John Homey, Dave Martin, and Mike McGill. 
A prime crop of sophomores will be the source of Parseghian's re­placements in the varsity ranks. Outstanding among this group are three potential quarterbacks: Mike Franger, 5-11, 175 lb, Elkhart, Ind.; Terry Hanratty, 6-1, 187 lb, Butler, Pa.; and Coley O'Brien, 5-11, 170 lb, Alameda, Calif. The rumored quarterback "prospect from a Cali­fornia prep school" is no longer in consideration because of scholastic reasons. 
The entire team, explains Par­seghian, will be one built on key sophomores working with returning veterans. It will be a young team, but one diversified on offense, he promised. 
The spring training sessions wUl conclude May 7 with the annual Old-Timers Game, which may of­fer an insight into Parseghian's se­lections to fill vacated positions. But don't look at the May 7 contest too closely. Remember, Ara's first varsity lost the Old-Timers Game and went on to a 9-1 season. 
BASKETBALL: 
No. 33 - McGann 
People come up to me, now that the season is over, and say, "Oh, five wins and 21 losses, that's too bad!" What can you say? Sure, this was the worst won-lost record ever turned in by a Notre Dame team. 
84  Detroit  97  
71  DePaul  97  
86  Loyola of L.A.  96  
92  Illinois  120  
67  Butler  90  
61  Georgia Tech  75  
84  Butler  61  
76  Detroit  67  
59  St. John's  77  
78  N.Y.U.  102  
44  Bradley  55  
71  DePaul  79  
76  Western Michigan  82  

They know that. Everyone knows that But what they can't under­stand is what the season meant to eveiy guy on the team. 
Maybe you'U understand if you remember the Kentucky game over Christmas vacation. We had done a good job in the first quarter, but Kentucky was very hot from the floor. Before we knew it, we were down by a lot and they forced us to play catch-up basketball — their type of ball game. We started to force our own mistakes; it was slop­py basketball. 
The next day we were in Greens­boro, N.C., practicing before playing Duke, the number-one team in the country. We had been stunned by Kentucky, but there wasn't one guy who complained. Then, I knew we were a team. 
It didn't make any difference then if we lost five in a row, four in a row, eight in a row, or even that one game the night before. No one 
4' 

68  Creighton  72  
WRESTLING  
24 27  Valparaiso Western Michigan  11 5  IK­ 
}6  Illinois University of Chicago  17  
23  Wabash College  10  
W  Purdue  23  
8  Miami of Ohio  35  
25  Cincinnati  8  
1 3rd Wheafon Tournament  
13  Ball State  22  
11  Marquette  27  

ALUMNUS MARCH 19S6 APRIL 
»,saafiite&l^^ ~-^pS^^~ji 
r:~ii^

iz-i-au «rr.-_-j 
was willing to accept another loss to 
any team. We were not going to be 
outhustled; we were not going to 
lose any game because of our atti­
tude or our won-lost record. 
Perhaps it was during this year, when we had such an uphiU struggle, that I realized what Notre Dame meant to me and how it made us a team. Before the season, a knee op­eration had me on crutches for three months. In November, I was watch­ing practice from the bench. When I talked with Fr. Brennan and Coach Dee and looked at the team through their eyes, I understood that Notre Dame itself means a spirit and a conviction to win. I don't think any other school I have ever seen has it. 
Now, I realize how fortunate I was to have chosen Notre Dame. K I had the chance, would I have done it any other way, knowing about the 5-21 season, knowing about my knee? Never! I think of Notre Dame and the influence Coach Dee has had on my life, and I can't stop won­dering how lucky I am. 

4  Wheaton  19  
4fh  Four-I Tournament  
Mar .  24  NCAA Tournament  
FENCING  
19  Indiana Tech  8  
20  U. of  Illinois  (Chicago)  7  
24  Indiana  3  
7  NYU  20  
14  Air Force  13  
17  Wisconsin  10  
18  Iowa  9  
20  Indiana  7  

Just look at Notre Dame basket­ball. You know Notre Dame is going to be one of the best teams in the country. I think Coach Dee is one of the best coaches in the country. Any mechanic of the game, he knows it better, and he can teach it faster than anyone I've ever met. 
This year, he just didn't have the material for a winning season. If you're going to play serious college basketball, you have to start with a 6'8" center. In our first game, we started with a team that had no player with any varsity experience. We didn't even know how to play with one another. 
Now, look at the end of the sea­son. Notre Dame had a better foul-shot percentage, a better technique in checking out on rebounds and a sounder defense than most winning Notre Dame teams have ever had. I think that this year our team began a tradition of pride in itself. 
15  Detroit  12  
20  Chicago  7  
15  Michigan State  14  
14  Ohio State  13  
15  Illinois  12  
15  Wisconsin  12  
22  Cleveland  5  
20  Oberlin  7  
16  Buffalo  11  
21  Hobart  6  
24  Case  3  
13  Wayne State  14  

I can't make excuses for a bad reo ord. Still, I know this season is the first step in the success that will come. And it is coming. 
—Captain James **Bucti^* McGamn —Dick Cmnetty 

HORSEAAAN AND MULE: 
Never to Be Forgotten 
One of the Horsemen and one of 
the Mules have made it. From tlie 
age of Rockre, halfback Jim Crow­
ley and linemein Edgar "Rip" Miller 
have been elected to the National 
Football Foundation and the Hall of 
Fame. 
Thirteen players and a coach were named with the two Notre Dame greats in the late February balloting. Coach Frank Leahy, Angelo Bertelli and Buck Shaw were other Irish greats who made it to the final round of voting, but no farther. 
MiUer and Crowley were members of the Notre Dame teams of 1922­24 that won 27 of 29 games, going undefeated in the 1924 season and defeating UCLA in the Rose BowL 
COACHES: 
There Comes a Time 
The decision as to where a man will work is often one of the hardest choices he must make. When he leaves behind years of friendship and tradition, it is aH the harder. 
Three men made such decisions recently and have left Notre Dame for futures elsewhere: assistant ath­letic director Hugh Devore, offensive line coach Richard "Doc" Urich, and 

ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 
assistant line coach Dave Hurd. 
Hugh Devore — as much a legend 
at Notre Dame as an individual — 
has moved south to be assistant to 
Wally Lemm, head coach of the 
American Football League's Hous­
ton Oilers. Lemm, who worked as 
Devore's jissistant at Notre Dame in 
1945, is expected to use the ex-
Notre Damer as an offensive end 
coach. Thirty-two years ago, after 
three years at right end for the 
Notre Dame varsity, Devore began 
his coaching career as freshman 
mentor under Elmer Layden. In suc­
cession, he moved from Notre Dame 
to Providence, Holy Cross, back to 
Notre Dame, on to St. Bonaventure, 
NYU, Green Bay, Dayton, Philadel­
phia, and then back to Notre Dame 
in 1943 under Frank Leahy. Twice, 
in 1945 and 1963, he headed the 
Irish squad as an "interim" coach. 
Doe Urich, after 15 years as assis­tant to Ara Parseghian at three schools (Miami, Northwestern, Notre Dame), has entered the coaching field on his own. He has signed a three-year contract as head coach for the State University of Buffalo, 
N.Y. At Notre Dame, Urich polished the performance of the men who protected passer John Huarte and punched holes in the defense for Bill Wolski and Larry Conjar. During a game, Urich was the latest in auto­mation: he was the man on the side­lines with the closed-circuit tele­vision monitor hanging from his shoulders. But of Notre Dame Urich says: "I wouldn't have traded this experience for anything in the world. This is reaUy something. I never had any idea that Notre Dame was a place like this. The outsider — especially a football coach — can't get to know Notre Dame unless he's been here." 
Replacing Urich as offensive line coach will be another product of Miami of Ohio, Jerry Wampfler, 33, who played three years as tackle under Parseghian. For the last three years, Wampfler has been "offensive coordinator" at Miami. He was a teammate of Tom Pagna, currently offensive backfleld coach at Notre Dame. 
Dave Hurd elected to leave his post as assistEint line coach and enter private business. A monogram win­ner at center for Notre Dame in the 1958-59 seasons, Hurd played under John Ray, currently Notre Dame's defensive backfleld coach, at Three Rivers (Mich.) High School. He later was a member of Ray's staff at John Carroll University. Hurd joined Devore's staff in 1963 and was retained when Parseghian became coach the f ollov/ing year. 

FRESHMAN BILL HURD: six-second-flat 60-yard dash 
From Clay to Tartan Finish 
by COACH ALEX WILSON 
A 
NEW era in track will start at Notre Dame with the completion of the Athletic and Convocation Center. And in looking ahead to the new facilities — with a "tartan" finished surface replacing the old clay track — it is inevitable that we think of the great trackmen who have competed for Notre Dame in the past. 
As far back as Knute Rockne's days in 1912 when he vaulted over 12' and James Wasson made the Olympic team, Notre Dame has been noted for her track stars. Most of the University records are held by more recent performers, but Wasson's :09.6 for the 100-yard dash is the oldest record on the books. Even so, there is no question that men like Gus Desch in the 400-meter hurdles and Gene Oberst in the javelin throw would be as outstanding in their events today as they were in the early 1920's. 
When Rockne found the need to devote more time to his football and athletic director's duties, he hired John Nicholson as track coach in 1927, and the em-
SCOREBOARD 
HOCKEY SWIMMING 
ND Relays ND 2nd 58 Varsity-Frosh 42 9 Lewis College 1 
13 Northern Illinois University 2 
59 Kent State 35
7 Tazewell Hockey Association 3 33 Bowling Green 62 5 Denison University 5 53 Miami of Ohio 42 

3 Erie Lions 5 

56 Western Ontario 39 2 Boston State 16 
39 Illinois 56 3 Holy Cross 9 77 Wayne State 18 
0 Nichols 7 33 New Mexico 62 0 University of Toledo 12 24 Western Michigan 71 4 Northwestern 4 52 Ball State 43 4 Beloit 7 
58 Purdue 47 31 Northwestern 64
72 Lewis College 4 38 Ohio U. 57
7 Air Force Academy 4 
GOLF
7 Lake Forest College 7 Apr. 16 Dayton, N. Illinois, 9 St. Procop'ws College 0 

W. Illinois and Bowling 3 University of Toledo 5 
Green 3 Northwestern 6 Apr. 23 Iowa, Michigan State and 4 Bowling Green 5 Indiana at Iowa 
AlUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 

phasis changed to better balanced track squads. From these teams came such stars as Jack Elder, who held the world's indoor record as a sprinter with :06.2 for the 60-yard deish, and, a few years later, Greg Rice, who captured the world's indoor record in the two-mile run. 
Other great sprinters followed the lead of Wasson and Elder. Bill McCormick and Bill Clifford ran in the 30's, Bob Smith in the 40's, Aubrey Lewis and Joe ForemEin in the 50's and, possibly the greatest of them all, freshman Bill Hurd, who has already run a six-second-flat 60-yard dash. In the middle distances. Bill Boyle of recent years was our greatest quarter-miler, while John Francis in the 30's, Bill Leonard in the 40's, Ron Gregory and Dale Vanderberg in the 50's, were the outstanding half-milers. At present, sopho­more Pete Farrell has shown great promise, and may well outshine all these earlier stars. 
It is in the distance runs, however, that Notre Dame has excelled over the years. Starting in the 30's, there has been a constant group of outstanding distance runners representing the University. Ed King made the Canadian Olympic team in 1932 and reached the finals in the 1,500-meter run. Greg Rice and OUie Hunter, among others, placed nationally in the late 30's and early 40's. In recent years, Frank Carver, Ed Dean, BiU Clark and Mike Coffey have been Ail-Ameri­cans in cross-country and have placed nationally in the mile and two-mile runs. Ed Dean now holds the one-mile University record, and Bill Clark the two-mile. 
John Nicholson, himself a hurdler on the 1912 Olympic team, developed fine hurdlers almost annual­ly. John O'Brien of football fame and Bill Mahoney, who followed Nicholson as track coach, were two of his prize pupils. Later, we saw Bill Fleming and Aubrey Lewis win NCAA titles in the hurdles, with our most recent star, Pete Whitehouse, running a dose second in 1964. 
The field events also have been well represented throughout the ye2irs, with the pole vault probably having produced more outstanding men than the other events. Paul Harrington held the world's record for a few hours in the late 20's, and later his son, Jim Harrington, followed his fathei"s footsteps by win­ning two Penn Relays' titles. Teammate Joe Springer tied for first at the Drake Relays for a double victory immatched in track 2UinEds. In the high jump, Ber­nard Allard holds the present Notre Dame record of 6' 8%". But this record seems within the grasp of a present freshman, Ed Broderick, who already has jumped S'SJ/o"­
The weight events have had some outstanding men, such as Bill Faymonville '39, holder of the discus record; Mike Morandeau '58, javelin; £md Francis Delaney, John Helwig and Carl Ludecke, shot put. But, there has never been the depth in these events one would expect from a school possessing such strong men on the gridiron. 
The added interest of the new athletic facilities, plus the outstanding group of young track and field men already enrolled at the University, point to a con­tinuing prominence of Notre Dame in the collegiate track world, with ever expectation of even better teams in the future 
JACK EIDER 
JAMES WASSON 

ED KING GREG RICE 
Apr. 30 Purdue, Northwestern, Illi­Apr. 25-26 at Wisconsin nois, Ohio State and In­Apr. 28 Michigan diana at Purdue Apr. 29-30 Kent State 
May 6-7 Northern Intercoll. Invit. May 2 Northwestern at Bloomington May 3 Detroit May 9 Michigan State, North­May 5 at Detroit western and Illinois State May b-7 at Bowling Green State May 14 S. Illinois, C. Michigan May 9 Michigan State and Toledo May 10 at Valparaiso June 20-25 NCAA Championship May 13 Western Michigan at Palo Alto, Calif. May 14 at Western Michigan May 16 at Michigan State 
BASEBALL May 17 Valparaiso Apr. 5 at Northwestern May 20-21 at Toledo Apr. 9 Tennessee May 27 Illinois State Apr. 11-12 at Georgia May 28 III. Wesleyan (2 games] Apr. 13-14 at Oglethorpe Apr. 15-16 at Georgia Tech TENNIS Apr. 18 at Michigan Apr. 11 at Florida Apr. 19 Purdue Apr. 12 at Rollins College Apr. 22-23 dt Bradley Apr. 13 Furman U. at Rollins Apr. 15-16 at Miami 
Apr. 20 at Northwestern 
Apr. 22-23 Minnesota and So. Illinois 
Apr. 25 Indiana 
Apr. 26 Purdue 
Apr. 27 Ball State 
Apr. 28 Wisconsin 
May 2 Michigan State 
May 4 Kalamazoo 
May 7 at Marquette 
May 9 at Iowa 
May U Michigan 
May 12 Ohio Wesleyan 
May 13 Cincinnati 
May 14 at Western Michigan 
May 17 Toledo 
May 19 at So. Illinois 
May 20 at St. Louis 
June 13-18 NCAA Championship at Miami 
ALUMNUS MARCH 1966 APRIL 




