The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

122ND ACADEMIC YEAR BEGINS MEMORIAL LIBRARY OPENS, TO 
^ 

NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
 WITH FROSH PROGRAM;  BE DEDICATED IN MAY 
Notre Dame marked tlie beginning of its 122nd 
academic year by opening the doors of its new 
thirteen-story library to students and faculty. 
Nearly 1,500 freshmen, representing 750 high schools throughout the country, came a week early to participate in a five-day orientation program prior to the opening of classes and a series of spiritual conferences during a Freshman Mission. 
The $8 million Notre Dame Memorial Library, believed to be the largest college library building in the world, has a capacity of two million volumes and can seat nearly half of the undergraduate student body at one time. Situated at the center of a new east-campus mall, the library will be formally dedi­cated on Ascension Thursday, May 7, 1964. 
An academic procession and Solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church on the campus September 22 marked the formal opening of the new school year. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., e.\ecutive vice-president, was celebrant of the Mass, and the sermon was delivered by Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president for academic affairs, to a faculty of nearly five hundred scholars in the rites. 
The Notre Dame Memorial Library is the newest of three major facilities on. the east-campus mall. .\ $2.2 million Radiation Research Building, erected by the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, was dedi­cated September 1, and the $3 million Computing Center and Mathematics Building opened in May. 
Candidates for Alumni Board Election on Report of the Alumni Board Executive Universal ND Communion Sunday. Dec. 15-Secretary — page 3. / Dec. 8 — page 4. 
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION be^an for nearly 1,500 new students and many of their parents with a convocation in the gcodesic-domed Stepan Activities Building. Grounding in the new liberalized Freshman Year of Studies opened a five-day acclimatizing process and two days of religious conferences iiefore the opening of Notre Dame's 122nd year. 
FOUR OF THESE MEN WILL SERVE YOU, 1964-66 
Recently a mail ballot was sent to all alumni iii good standing — i.e., those who participated in the Annual Alumni Fund since I96I3 either through their usual annual contribution or through their capital gift participation in the Challenge program. 
This ballot represents a much more significant pre­rogative of Alumni Association membership than football ticket preference. It means the right to determine the policies and programs of the Association and an advisory voice at the Universit)' through representation on the national Board of Directors. 
Four of these nominees will serve you for the next three years on the 12-member Board, studying and making 
CUDDY, ^Villiam V.. A.B. '52 {cum laude). White Plains, N.Y. He attended Georsetouu Law School and graduated from Ford­ham Law School. A partner in Close, Griffiths, McCarthy, Gaynor, White Plains law firm, is a mem­ber of Notre Dame Latv Associa­tion and several Bar Associations. After other offices, he became New York Club president in I960, "Man of the Year", 1963. Originator and moderator Notre Dame Forum (NBC radio). Ac­tive in Foundation, he is a mem­ber of the K of G, and former executive director of CYO. W.W. i l veteran, he is married and hai two daughters and a son. 

CARNEV, Thomas P.. B.S. '37, Indianapolis, Ind. A native of DuBois, Pa., he rcctived a mas­ter's degree in Science and Ph.D. from Pcnn State University in 1939 and 1941. Vice President of research, dc%'elopment and con­trol for Eli Lilly Co., is a mem­ber of the board and executive committee. A frequent contributor to scientific journals, he is a for­mer consultant to ^thc Sccrctarj* of Health, Education and Wel­fare. "Xfan of the Year" in 1958. In same year delivered the annual Nicuwland science lectures at N.D. Holds several chemistry patents. He is married and has tvro daugh­ters and two sons. 
DONOVAN, Frank J., B.S.C. '28^ Muskegon, Mich. A native of Philadelphia, he worked In South Bend, Ind., Radne, Wis., and Chi­cago until 1941 when he hdped organize the Kaydon EngineeringCorp. He has been president-general manager since 1945. Ac­tive In various charitable and dvic organizations, he is chair­man of the board of lay trustees of ^fercv Hospital In Muskegon. Since 1952 he has been secretar>'­treasurer of Frauenthal Founda­tion and was also on the board of ^fuskegon Catholic High School. He Is married and has two sons, a daughter, and three grandchil­dren. 

OOUGHLIN. Bertrand D., MJD., 
B.S. '26, St. Louis, Mo. A native of Faribault. Minn., ^ he received his -Doctor of Medicine decree from St. Louis University in 1931. Member and past officer of manymedical sodeties, fraternities, staff of Saint John Hospital, etc A faculty member of St. Louis University School _ of Medicine since 1934. he specializes in colon and rectal surgery. President of St. Louis Club in IBW, now mem­ber of advisory board and chair­man_ of scholarship committee. Chairman of Foundation commit­tee rince 1944. *'Man of the Year** in 1961. He is married and has two cbugfaters and a son. 
recommendations, not only on such alumni matters as UJ^.D. Night and Communion Sunday, reunions and magazines (through such committees as Class, Club, Reli­gion and Citizenship, Budget, Foundation and Gifts) but in consultation with the University Administration for information and service in such areas as Academic and, Student Affairs, Admissions, Public Relations, Placement and Job Counseling. They will meet three times a year, contributing their services. Only travel and housing are provided by the Association. 
If you received a ballot, please cast your vote before Dec. 12. It's an exercise of your privilege and a mandate for the Board's activities. 
ROGERS. Robert M.. B.S.a '43, St, Paul, Minn. President of the Joseph A. Rogers Company, insurance agency founded by his nandfather in 1882. Past presi­dent of Twin City Club, he was first Foundation chairman and served for seven years. A Navylieutenant in W.W. 11. he scr\*ed • in the Pacific theatre. Director of Town and Country Golf Club, he Is also a member of the St. Paul Athletic Club, the St. Paul Club, and the Winter Cami\-al Associa­tion. He prepped at St. Thomas Military Academy and has been active in alumni there. Married, he has two daughters. 

KIATTHEWS, Elmer KCaurice, 
A.B. '47, Newark, N.J. Partner in the law firm of \^eser & Mat­thews, he has been a member of the New Jersey General Assemblysince 1957 and is currently speaker of that body. Ikfemtier of the New Jersey Tax Policy Commission and the board of advisors to the presi­dent of Seton Hall College. Re­dpient of the N.J. Ja^trces* dis­tingubhed service award in 1963. Last year won the Essex Count>­Education Assn. annual award for services to education as majorityleader and higher education com­mittee chainoan. Has LL.B. from Fordham, rnaster's from N. Y. U. He is married and has one son. 
SAMPSON. Herbert M.. B.S. jBus. Ad-'50, Omaha, Neb. Be­came assistant vice president of Northern Natural Gas Co. ^In 1959 and now directs marketingactii'ities for the company. He u-as named "Man of the Year" this year by Omaha Club ivhidi he hdped reorganize. Active in Serra International, St. Vincent , DePaul, and K of C. Ser\-ed on t Crci^hton University fund drive, jUCS fund drive and does Boy > Scout work. Industry aHiliatlons indude .American, Mid-West and Independent Natural Gas Assns. Company is nation's third largest. He Is married and has four sons. 

PRODEHL, Clifford E., Ph.B. *32, Malvern, Pa. Director of Purchases for the Pennsylvania Turnpike Comm. Member of Kfen of &lalvem, St. Patrick's HolyName. Treasurer of Serra Inter­national and past commander of the Coast Guard Lca^e. Has hdd every office In Philadelphia Club and is now permanent Chairman of the board. **&fan of the Year" in 1950, he heads ath­letic department liaison in Phila­delphia area. Chainnan of his 20th and 30th class reunions, he is active In Foundation w*ork and ivas a chairman for the Get^s­burg Centennial. He is married and has one son. 

Keportofthe Sfcecut'm Secretary 
I. MOONLIGHTING 
II. ALUMNI CLUBS 
NEW OmCES 
IV.
 FOUNDATION AND BEFORE 

V. 
GETTYSBURG 


AND CEDAR POINT 
VI. SCIENCE CENTERS ON EAST CAMPUS 
VII. FOOTBALL NOW AND LONG AGO 
VIII. ALUMNI BOARD ACHIEVEMENTS 
I am now the ex-President of the American Alumni Council. I remain a member of the Board of that organization for one year, and am chairman of the 1964 Nominating Committee, and a member of the Aims and Policies Committee. 
Tom Keman, the new Field Secretary, has already given evidence of the predicted values in closer and more intensive contact with our Local Alumni Clubs. 
The summer was spent "living out of our suitcases" in the University Parlor, while a really major and attractive renovation job was done on the Foundation and Alunrni OiBBces. Fortu­nately, I was one of the very few who associated the Parlor with the long line of dignitaries who waked there over the years. We are back at the old stand in new splendor, and I hope you find time to pay us a visit. 
In uncovering some of the materials of our history, it was interesting to note the early days of the Foundation, when the Alumni Association, under Harry Hogan, and the University, under Father John J. Cavanaugh, were seeking to insure better support for the post-World War II progress indicated. In its 105 years, to that historic 1947 year, the University had raised little more than three million dollars from outside sources. 
Since 1947, not directly through the Foundation, but certainly as a partial result of the climate it created for the University and its development, more than fifty million dollars has come from outside sources. 
The Gettysburg ceremonies not only fulfilled our hopes, but proved to be a rather unique con­tribution to the activity of the Church in the patriotic identity of the East. Seemingly, it was the first Field Mass celebrated at the Peace Light Monument. The interest of the Irish Brigade the Gettysburg parish, the Harrisburg diocese, and the various Catholic organizations involved, may provide a continuing attention to this historic linking of religion and citizenship. Father Tom O'Donnell worked long and hard for this success. Next summer a different kind of alumni fam­ily outing at Cedar Point, Ohio, will commemorate the development there of the Rockne-Dorais forward pass on the Golden Anniversar)' of Rock's graduation. More on this later. 
Because they are more specialized and less understood, and dwarfed physically by the new Library, the Computer Center and the Radiation Research Center were dedicated with very impressive ceremonies, but too little public fanfare. Try to see these buildings and talk to Dr. Burton in Radiation, and Dr. Hans Zassenhaus of the Computer Center. 
Everj'one travelling last summer returned to the campus reporting enthusiasm for Hugh Devore and the 1963 football season among alumni from coast to coast. Enthusiasm may have dimmed with the early-season performance of a good team against excellent opponents, but affection'and respect for Coach Devore have not waned. 
This is the 75th Anniversar)' obser\'ance of Notre Dame football. The Athletic Department figured in a skipped year in our early histor)'. Much Notre Dame interest is being shown in the Rutgers College Football Hall of Fame, and in the Canton, Ohio, Professional Hall of Fame. The part that Red Salmon, Cap Edwards, Al Feeney, Rockne, el al., played in the early professional foot­ball history is often obscured by the recent spotlight turned on pro stan, and the mixed nature of the pioneer years of this phase of the sport. 
Look for the story on the vital new programs and achievements of your Alumni Association Board of Directors in the next full issue. 
The long-talked-about reunion of the Alumni Board members may be realized in 1964. We are working on it. If it materializes, hopefully at the Winter meeting, it \nl\ not only renew many wonderful friendships, but spotlight a group of men whose thought and effort have contributed tremendously to the progress of Notre Dame. The reunion is contingent on several broader fac­tors, but we hope to advise you of its reality soon. 
J. E. ARMSTRONG 

DEC 2 1963 Law Library 
By action of the Alumni Board, through recommenda­tion of the Committee on Religion and Citizenship and the Committee on Club Activities, Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday will be observed on Sunday, December 8, the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, with the theme "Federal Aid to Education." 
'Federal Aid' to Keynote Communion Sunday December 8 
Notre Dame ALUMNUS Vol. 41, No. 5 November, 1963 
Return Requested 
This is the event for Clubs based on some phase of Religion and Citizenship, since it is obser\'ed on the Sunday ^ nearest the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, Patroness of the United States. This year the Holy Day falls on Sunday. 
One universal problem in this area is "Federal Aid to Education." The costs of Catholic education — and the ^ costs of public education — concern ever)- Catholic family. Discussion of thk subject is universal, too often uniformed, and subject to important variations, especially in the law. 
Our Clubs could do a great ser\'ice to members, to their communities, and to the whole progress of educa­tion, on all levels, if they based the 1963 Universal Com­munion Sunday around this theme. There are competent speakers in every community — lawyers, clerg)-, educators, legislators and la)'men. One ver)- interesting and productive device under these circumstances is the Panel Discussion, presenting short talks on several phases, followed by questions. 
Since tlie date and topic of U.N.D. Communion Sunday are merely suggestions subject to local revision, check your Notre Dame Club for the time and form of observance — whether morning or evening Mass, Communion breakfast or supper, family or membership attendance, full or modi­fied program. 
. 

Entered as Second Class matter October 1,1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of August 24, 1912. 
'.'iss "arie K. La'-Trerice Box 625 
Notre Dams, Indiana 



