The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
VOL. VI CONTENTS FOE APEIL, 1928 -^''TSrO. 8 
Sonnet Sequence—By Norhert Engels, '26 Frtmtisjnece The Notre Dame Club of New Jersey—B;/ Wm. E. Carter, '27 291 Jack Spalding, Laetare Medallist 1928 : 294 EndowTnent—By An Alipnnus ; 295 The Alumni Clubs 298 1928-1929 Officers Nominated . 301 Editorial 303 Facts and Fancies 304 Athletics—Northwestern on Schedule Again 306 The Alumni—Edward Lennon Jr., '23, Dies 307 
The magazine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 
a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include 
a year's subscription to THE ALUSINUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, 
at the post office at Notre Dame, Indiara, under the Act of March 3. 1S97. All corres­
pondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box SI, Notre Dame, Indiana. MEMBER OF THE AMERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Editor 
The Alumni Association 
of the 


University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Headquarters: 329 AJminislration Building, Notre Dame James E. Armstrong, '25, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EDWAKD L. MAURUS, '93 ---- Honorary President JOHN P. MURPHY, '12 -------- President JAMES F . O'BRIEN, '13 ------ Vice-President JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, '25 ------- Secretary WALTER DUNCAN, »12 -------- Treasurer EDWIN C. MCHUGH, 'is -------- Director JOSEPH M. HALEY, '99--------- Director ALFRED C. EYAN, '20 --------- Director GEORGE M. MAYPOIE, '03-------- Director DANIEL J. O'CONNOR, 'OS' --- Director (ex offiao) 


Sonnet Sequence 
By NORBERT ENGELS, '26 
After a Quarrel I tvandered long and silently alone. Out to the solemn shore where day begins And ends v/iimemoried; ivhere a silver tone Might chime its hour to lifeless manniJdns Who never weep. Then, suddeiHy, I heard A voice someivhere sing my foj-gotten name. And, siveeping through the eniiMness, a bird Unfolded white, ivhite wings across the frame Of darkness. 0, my heart turned over there ... / turned my back to Death, my face to you; And from the silence of my heart, a prayer Was lifted high to sing the heavens through. That ivas a lovely, happy hour, but vain, For noiv, my dear, I must turn back again. 
After Parting Beloved, tvhen all life's bitterness has gone In silence ivith the futile tears and cares Of lonely, empty hours, and whe7i evening bares Her tvarm siveet breast to us, tired and wan Earth's children; ivhen our iveary day is done From labor, and the ghostly ticilight ivears A garland twined with memories and prayers That xohisper tlvrough the shadoivs, ive alone Shall stand there, face to face, and all of this That now is bitter shall be sloivly laid Beside the flesh tve loved, noiv emptiness. We shall reniembei', though, the hours we prayed. And dreamed, and loved. A moment's happiness Shall sing immortally; other songs shall fade. 
THE NOTPC DAME ALUMNUS 
A magazine which seeks to unify Notre Darae spirit among Notre Dame alumni; to 
keep alive the friendliness and democracy of the campus when campus days are gone; to 
acquaint Notre Dame alumni with the development of the University, and the broader devel­
opment of the principles of Catholic education; to organize alumni activity so that it may 
better and in a greater measure attain its ends; to live in print as Notre Dame men live 
always, "For God, for Country, and for Notre Dame." 
^Himimmn i iniiiiiiiiiiiTTTTTriTTTMnrTiTiTii!iiiininiiii[iiiriniTMiMi[iniTTnnnTTnnrrmi'''Mi7iMinnniniiMiiMnimiumiiimiITmnmiTTnTli^ l?^ 
The Notre Dame Club of New Jersey 
By William E. Carter, '27 
T
HE Notre Dame Club of New Jersey is less than two years old, probably the baby of all N.D. alumni organizations. It holds regular monthly meetings at the Newark Athletic Club, affords the promo­tion of good fellowship among its.members and gets things done in the interests of the university. 
This issue of THE ALUMNUS is an ex­ample of the enthusiasm of the club. We were asked a month ago to finance the April publication of the magazine. Here it is. Meanwhile the club members have co­operated during the month in helping make a success of the Glee Club concert held in Brooklyn K. of C. Hall, for the benefit of the Missionary Club, and have been laying elaborate plans for a stag dinner for the obser\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
The club is also arranging to help defray the expenses' of Jim Armstrong, alumni secretary, on his return trip to the Uni­versity following his attendance at the Na­tional Catholic Alumni Federation Conven­tion in New Yoi-k on the 21st and 22nd of this month. Traps are being set to hold him here in Newark an extra day to be with the New Jersey Club for Universal Night. 
And so it goes. The: members take as active and lively an interest in all things pertaining to Notre Dame as Joe Byrne and Rupe Mills always have done olficially and unofiicially. These two godfathers of the organization keep it pepped up to a high 
THE NEW JERSEY CLUB ON RETREAT | 
Rupe Mills and Andy McDonough, Frank Ward O'Malley, Frcmk Milbauer. 
powered efficiency. 
The formation of the Notre Dame Club of New Jersey was a direct result of the formation of a New Jersey Club of Notre Dame. Since 1920 increasing numbers of New Jersey high and prep school graduates have been matriculating at the university. 
About sixty Jerseyites on the campus to­ward the end of the school year in 1923-24 decided to form a club of their own. They did and Tom Farrell was its first president. Inasmuch as the club proved practicable, active and agreeable, it continued. A de­sire to keep organized for the promotion of closer fellowsliip and the advancement of the interests of Notre Dame continued after graduation. 
Two years elapsed before the local alum­ni roster seemed large enough to essay the formation of a permanent New Jersey as­sociation. Meanwhile Christmas holiday dances of the campus club, held in Newark, brought all New Jerseyites interested in the university and each other, closer to­gether. 
During the late summer of 1926, Joe Nul­ty, then president of the campus club called several infoniial meetings of representative graduates and students, for the purpose of setting the groundwork for an organization. 
The outcome was a dinner in September of that year, held with a threefold purpose; to start an alunmi Association, to have present members meet the old gi-ads and to disseminate information concerning the University to prospective freshmen. Forty attended and the alumni club-was formed. The following officers were elected: honor­ary president Robert M. Anderson; presi­dent Arthur J. LeaMond; vice-president, John Murphy and secretary-treasurer, James Silver. 
Activities began at once and are still going on and multiplying. A real enthus­iasm existed among the thirty charter mem­bers and efforts were made constantly to enroll actively about fifty others who were strewn about the state. A center of inter­est for all the members was created when it was annoimced that through the efforts of Joe Byrne and Eupe Mills the club would receive a block of tickets for the Notre Dame-Army game of November 1926. The club, of course, had no trouble in ex­hausting the supply as Newark is a hot-bed of Notre Dame interest. 

In December the club played host to about fifty at the Newark A. C. where a Western Union wire, direct from California gave those present the play-by-play report of the Notre Dame Southern California game. The result was entirely satisfactory. Notre Dame won. 
During Christmas vacation of that year the club cooperated with the New Jersey Club on the campus in promoting the holi­day dance at the Robert Treat Hotel. 
Next came the biggest event of the year, the presentation of the Glee Club of the University in the Newark Athletic Club. This was an aesthetic success enjoyed by everyone but the matter-of-fact treasurer. A banquet in the club preceded the concert. A fine precedent was set and ^vill be re­peated probably next year. 
In its first year the club was able to make a gift of $300 to the national Alumni Association. It was given with the whole­hearted support of the organization and, we learn, it acted as a genuine spur to the other N. D. clubs in the country. 
"Rock" was the guest of honor at a ban­quet at the Newark A. C. that spring. The world's greatest football coach expressed his approval and the club was pleased. Other guests included Hugh A. O'Donnell former national Alumni president; Arthur 
J. Sinnott, managing editor of the NEW­ARK EVENING NEWS; Howard Freeman, nationally know cartoonist; a prominent New Jersey judge and some members of the New York Notre Dame Club. 
Next on the social calendar was a Spring dance at the Washington Restaurant. It was put across in great style by Jake Pur­cell and his assistants. Among the dis­tinguished guests were baseball alumni, Cy Williams of the Philadelphia Nationals and Roger Nolan then with the Buffalo In­ternational League. 
In May the Constitution and By-.Laws of the club were adopted and the second an­nual election held. The new and present officers chosen were: president, A. Lyndon Bryce; vice-president, Charles A. Winter; secretary, Richard Purcell and treasurer, Kari G. Pfeiffer. 
Before summer the club decided upon more activities to round out the year. One was to assist the campus club in putting 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
over the summer dance. This was con­summated at Achtel-Stetter's Restaurant, Newark. Next was the proposal of Joe Byrne for a summer "shore dinner" and this served as a welcome to the new presi­dent, Al Bryce. The "clam-bake" was a mammoth success. It was held at Port-au-Peck, on the Jersey coast. 
The first meeting of the year 1927-28 was a dinner at the Newark Athletic Club. Some old grads from out of the state and some new Notre Dame students were guests. Plans were laid for the most ser­ious effort of the club, a retreat at the Loyola House of Retreat in Morristown. More than a score attended and it was so successful that the second week of Sep­tember of each year was reserved for the club. In addition the members voted $100 to the fathers of the institution. 
A very important activity was the work of the club in allaying the enthusiasm that had risen in this section over the Notre Dame-Navy and Notre Dame-Army games. 
Everyone in the state, it became quite evident, had connections •with the institu­tion, knew people who did, had attended, were going to matriculate, had been grad­uated, or wished they had. 
A great proportion of the club members attended the Navy game, many of them going down to Baltimore on a special train arranged by the New York Club. Every­one in the state who could went to the Army game. Interest in that encounter this year surpassed all previous displays of football fanaticism. 
In December the club was busy with ar­rangements made in cooperation with the campus club for the annual Christmas dance. This affair, held at the Athletic Club proved to be one of the leading func­tions in the state during the year. It has become an established social institution. 
When it was discovered in January that Rockne was to lecture in several cities in New Jersey every effort was made to have him appear in Newark. 
The Newark appearance was an-anged through Joe Byrne. "Rock' 'addressed mem­bers of football squads of high and prep schools of more than fifteen institutions of Newark and the immediate suburbs who gathered in the largest auditorium in the citv to hear him. The notice was short but the crowd was large. Among many new ones "Rock" told his favorite story of Bickerdike and the run in his football stock­ing. He made many friends and as usual "went over big." 
Following "Rock's" address he was tend­ered a banquet at the Newark Athletic Club. More than fifty attended. George Daly, well known sports writer of the New York World was a guest of honor. 
A roster of the members from 39 com­munities of the state, of the club includes: 
A. Lyndon Bryce, Charles Winters, Karl 
G. Pfeiffer, Richard J. Purcell, Joseph M. Bj'me, Jr., Rupert Mills, John Purcell, Thomas Purcell, Joseph Mangin, Edward Burke, Thomas A. Fan-ell, James Waldron, Arthur J. LeaMond, James Silver, Peter DuPay, B. K. Wingerter, George Brueck­ner, Edward Duggan, Harry Axt, Eugene Gilligan, Bert Daniels, Edward Hargan, Robert M. Anderson, William D. Bailey, Robert Cunningham, Frank Milbauer, Carl­ton B. Reilly, William J. Degnen, Joseph 
A. Nulty, Gervase Froelich, Frank J. Mas­terson, Arthur J. Monaco, Joseph Whalen, Robert Shields, Edward Broderick. 
John and Vincent Bianchi, Rev. Cuthbert, O.S.B., Joseph R. Carlton, Francis McDer­mitt, Herman O'Hara, Frank J. Carleton, Eugene McVeigh, Walter Houghton, John 
W. Ryan, Arch M. Duncan, Edward M. Wal­dron, Jr., Francis J. Fanning, Francis Byrnes, Lawrence Kemper, Hardy Busch, Edward McFeeley, Carl Zwigard, Thomas McAndrews, Jr., John J. McAndrews, Cam­eron Dooley, Charles E. Daly, Dr. Thomas 
F. O'Grady, Richard V. Hyland, George E. Meredith, Dr. Leslie A. Yeager, John P. Casey, Jr., T. Crawford Jameson, Thomas 
F. Nolan, Thomas J. Kelly, Thomas F. Ry­an, Andrew J. McDonough, Francis J. Mc-Donough, Henry W. Clement, T. S. Kwi­linski, Arthur D. Walsh, William J. Moran, Eugene F. Donlon, Charles W. and Leonard 
M. Call, Joseph Baier, James H. Bailey, Eugene Willinghanz. • 
Daniel P. Murphy, Alan Fritchie, Neal Henry* E\ving, James Fenesy, Frank Ward O'Malley, James J. Mannis, Rev. John F. Feamley, Edmond J. Quinn, John V. Eck, Perry P. Koehne, Gerald V. Hayes, James Whelan, James Lenahan, Thomas Sheridan, James Quinn, Harry Abrams, and Joseph Carroll. 

Jack Spalding, Laetare Medallist 1928 
Jack J. Spalding, Atlanta, Georgia, prominent lawyer and outstanding Catholic layman, was awarded the Laetare Medal for 1928. The announcement was made at No­
tre Dame on Laetare 
JACK J. SPALDING 
Laetare Medallist 
 Sunday, March 18. It marks the forty - sixth annual award of this honor, which is now recognized as the greatest distinction that an American Catholic ca n receive in this country. It is awarded as a recognition of merit and as an inspiration to lay achieve­ment. 
The 1928 Medallist is the S o u t h's out­

standing Catholic layman. He has been recognized widely for his work in connec­tion with the parochial schools of Atlanta, and for general charities in the South. He was born in Morganfield, Ky., practiced law there after receiving liis training at Se­ton Hall College and St. Louis U. He is dis­tinguished for his ability in his profession as well as for his outside activities and has done much professionally for the Church in the South. His civic activities have won him wide popularity in Atlanta. It was his plan that kept the public schools of At­lanta open when lack of funds had almost made them close. He is a prominent Dem­ocrat and has been offered many political honors, but has declined them. 
A write-up concerning his personal Cath­olicity says, "He has given time, counsel and finances generously to the Church. He is an attendant at daily Mass and a week­ly communicant. This in spite of the fact that he is advanced in years, not in good health, and that he lives several miles from the parish church." 
Education and charity are Mr. Spalding's chief interests. In addition to work done for the parocliial schools and several other educational institutions in Atlanta, Mr. Spalding has been the leader of the St. Vincent de Paul Conference and Particular Councils of Atlanta. In 1927 Mr. Spalding was made a K. S. G. by Pope Pius XI. As leader of the Catholic Laymen's Associa­tion of Georgia, Mi-. Spalding has been in­strumental in bringing the truths of Cath­olicity to that part of the United States where they are most needed. 
Notre Dame, with the wisdom that has marked all preceding selections for this honor, has lighted upon a man whose mer­its place him side by side with his illus­trious co-Medallists. The list of Laetare Medallists since 1883, the year the beautiful custom was inaugurated by Father Thomas Walsh, C.S.C, then President, is: 
1883 John GilmaiT Shea 
1884 Patrick J. Keeley 
1885 Eliza Allen Starr 
1886 General John Newton 
1887 EdwaM Preuss 1888 Patrick V. Hickey 
1889 Mrs. Anna Hanson Dorsey 
1890 AVilliain J. Onahan 1891 Daniel Dougherty 1892 Henry; F. Brownson 
1893 Patrick Donahue 1894 AuEus;ine Daly 1895 Mrs. , ames Sadlier 1896 Generi 1 William S. Eosecrans 1897 Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet 1898 Timotly E. Howard 
1899 1900 1901 1902 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912  Mary Gwendolin Caldwell  John A. Creighton  "William Bourke Cochran  Dr. John R. Murphy  Charles J. Bonaparte  Richard Kearns 

 Thomas B. Fitzpatrick  Dr. Francis Quinlan  Katherine E. Conwey 
 James C. Monaghon  Frances Tiernan  Maurice Francis Egan  Agnes Repplier  Thomas B. Mulry 
1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928  Charles B. Herterman 
 Edward Douglas White  Mary Merrick  Dr. James J. Walsh  William Shepherd Benson  Joseph Scott  George Duval  Dr. Lawrence F. Flick  Elizabeth Nourse 
 Charles Patrick Neil  Walter George Smith  Charles D. Maginnis  Albert F. Zahm  Edward N. Hurley  Margaret Anglin  Jack J. Spalding 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

Endowment 
BY AN ALUMNUS 
W
HAT does it mean to you to be an Alumnus of Notre Dame? Does it mean that you have had privileges provided by the sacrifice of other men? Having had the opportunity of knowing Notre Dame, are you not anxious to have it perpetuated for the benefit of the boys of the future ? 
To be an Alumnus of Notre Dame is not a mere social relation involving the privi­lege of recalling happy days spent in the shadow of the Golden Dome, nor does it confer on you the right to attend football games and cheer her great teams to victory to the exclusion of all other Alumni activ­ities. Rather, it involves a duty upon each of us to do everj'thing in our power to ad­cance the interests of our Alma Mater, and the reason for this article is merely to give some information that may stimulate all of us into doing more to keep Alma Mater. 
To a degree that is not true of most uni­versities, Notre Dame is in the control of her Alumni. The president, all the officers, a majority of the faculty and a majority of the Board of Trustees are Alumni. It is doubtful if there is another school in the country that is so closely controlled by its Alumni. Without question this is the un­derlying reason for the 100 per cent spirit of cooperation that has made possible the wonderful success of Alma Mater in the past. 
To define a university is very difficult. The following is a fair definition: 
"A university is neither building nor equipment, but the characters and minds of men. Its life and continuity is not in stone or timber or fine tools, but in pro­ductive process and creation. Books are in­struments; buildings are great accessories; laboratories are workshops of discovery; but a university is none of these. A uni­versity is the study by young men of Life's essential problems. It is the honest search for truth, the statement of new problems and their answers so far as human minds can work them out. It is the preparation of young minds and bodies for service and better living in this world." 
Like the cost of all things in life, the cost of education has greatly increased in the last few years. The world however demands educated people, and the future race will require greater skill and charac­ter; hence, more careful training. Today thei student at Notre Dame is given a chance to train himself for the accomplishment of greater things during life, but it costs more than he can pay. He is endowed gladly by the university, for that is its great mission, but the university must be endowed to keep the process going. 
Among the great universities of America, Notre Dame has an endow^ment that is in­significant, but it must do its work cramped and restricted for lack of funds. Let us see what the Alumni have done for other 
schools:  
Harvard  has $47,000,000 in endowments.  
Columbia  has  36,000,000 in endowments.  
Yale  has  33,000,000 in endowments.  
Chicago  has  30,000,000 in endowments.  
Stanford  has  27,000,000 in endowments.  
Cornell  has  19,000,000 in endowments.  

Northwest' n has 15,000,000 in endowments. Princeton has 12,000,000 in endowments. Penn has 12,000,000 in endowments. Notre Dame has 1,000,000 in endowments. 
That is far too small a sum to keep No­tre Dame on a parity with these other schools. 
It has been said that the President of Carleton College, a small school at North­field, Minnesota, stated that they must have $13,000,000 in endowments to keep the scholastic standing of Carleton at the proper level. If this is true, it can readily be seen that Notre Dame must have a still greater endowment. 
The question now is, how can you as an individual alumnus help. You say you are not wealthy, or you have a family to pro­vide for, or perhaps you have a provision in your Will leaving funds to Notre Dame for the education of poor boys. Now, if you already have made such a provision do not think you are helping Notre Dame. You are helping a poor boy—not Notre Dame. 
THE NOTRE D.A.JME ALUJINUS 
It will cost the university money to educate 
that boy more than his tuition \\'ill pay. Al­
low me to cite some figures from an actual 
sur\'ey made at the Northwestern Uni­
versity. Tliese figures are used because 
none are available at Notre Dame and fur­
ther because conditions affecting North­
western should be very similar on account 
of its location. 
"Each full-time student pays $200.00 an­

nually for tuition, but costs Northwestern 
directly $327.00 to educate. Thus North­
western is making a permanent investment 
in American youth of three-quarters of a 
million annually." 
Notre Dame is doing this same thing and needs the help of all her Alumni and friends. If you really want to help your Alma Mater change your Will and give the money outright to Notre Dame for its gen­eral endo^vment fund. (Tlie writer changed his Will after investigating this question.) This does not mean that Notre Dame will not accept the special fund for the poor boy or for any other specific purpose. She ^vill be only too glad to receive these and carry them out to the smallest detail. 
Now as to the man who must provide for his family, it is not necessary for the money to be left out-right to his loved ones. In fact, most men are now leaving their estates in Trust. This has always been true of our vast fortunes and now the man of moderate means is doing the same. "For­tues ai-e wild horses; when beyond their captor's hands they may become uncon­trollable." 
Why not draw your Will so as to give your estate to a Trustee to hold for the benefit of your dependents, paying them the income during their lifetime and then, giv­ing the principal to Notre Dame? If you want to provide for the offspring of your dependents di\'ide the principal estate be­tween the offspring and Notre Dame. 
The main tiling is to draw or redraw your Will making it fit your case as you see it, but be sure to have a provision for your Alma Mater. It may not be large, you may not be able to give a sum suflS­cient to endow a chair, but give something —^it will all help. Don't forget to draft a new Will or a codicil with Notre Dame as a beneficiai-y and do it today! 
Now, another way in which we can all help—The -poiuer of suggestion. The priest the lawyer, the doctor and the banker all have wonderful opportunities to assist in this way. A great many people about to make their Wills consult these men. Near­ly every testator is desii'ous of doing some­tliing for charity. In fact, most of us wait to do it by our Last Will and Testament. The great majority of people do not know what charity they want to leave their money to and when they ask you for sug­gestions—tell them about the needs of No­tre Dame. It will be astonishing a few years from now to know how many thou­sands, maybe hundreds of thousands of dol­lars that ^vill be flowing into Notre Dame eveiy year from these Wills all over the country, if we all keep this idea in mind and make use of it at every opportunity. 
It is really surprising how readily a Cath­olic testator will make a bequest to Notre Dame. They all believe in and want to help Catholic education. Even the non-Catholic mil be glad to help and don't fail to tell him when he asks for a suggestion. 
Tliis is best illustrated by the newspaper story of Frank A. Munsey the publisher. He was about to sail for Europe, when his la\vj'er inquired whether he had made his Last Will and Testament. Mr. Munsey ad­mitted that he had not made his Will and told his attorney that he did not want his relatives to have any of his money. He wanted to leave it all to charity, but he would not have time to work out his scheme until Ms return to America. The lawyer was interested in the Metropolitan Art Museum and suggested that he make a Will leaving his entire estate to that insti­tution, and that he could change it when he returned from Europe and worked out his plans for charity. The Will was executed, leaving everything he possessed to the Metropolitan Art Museum. Several years after his return from Europe he died and it was then learned that Mr. Munsey had never made a new Will and his $40,000,000 estate became the property of a museum which they say he had never even visited while alive. 
This is a wonderful illustration of the power of suggestion. Let us all practice it in the future and perhaps Notre Dame's 
THE NOTRE DAJIE ALUMNUS 
endowment will increase several million. explanation is given so that there •will be 
NOTE: The writer of the article worked no misunderstanding in reference to the his way through Noti'e Dame, so he fully statements regarding the leaving of funds understands the poor boy's problem. Tliis for the assistance of poor boys. 
WITH OUR PRESIDENTS The above photograph pictures left to right: George E. Howland, Buffalo; S. W. Neill, Chicago; E. L. Roberts, Washington, D. C; R. F. Blair, Cleveland; J. E. Roberts, Philadelphia; Louis Ludlow, president of the National Press Club; President Coolidge; LEROY J. REACH, '08; E. W. J. Hearty, N. Y. C ; A. D. Hitz, Indianapolis; Chester F. Franzell, Pittsburgh. The occasion was the invitation to President Coolidge from the National League of Commission Merchants to attend their next annual convention in Boston. 
Leroy Keach is president of the League, and has just been re-elected for a second term. He was on the track team at N. D. in 1906-07-08. He is president, also, of the N. D. Club of Indianapolis. Mr. Keach is also Chairman of the Marion County Democratic Committee, and an outstanding Democrat of the state. (Which was not his capacity in the above picture, however.) On his recent trip to the East he was a guest of Judge Olvany and other eastern leaders of the Democratic party. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
AKRON Frank Steel hasn't written in any dope for the 23rd yet, but it's a safe bet that the Akron gang will be hitting on all six until it's time to retire. 
ARKANSAS Rev. George F. X. Strassner, president of the N. 

D. Club of Arkansas, writes that he is trying to gather in the rather scattered Arkansas group for a meeting the 23rd in Little Rock. Father Strass­ner is now- located at P. O. Box 52, Hope, Ark. The Arkansas Club is getting up steam and it looks as though the slow train is about to be speeded up. 
BUFFALO Jay Lee writes, "The Notre Dame Club of Buffalo will celebrate U.N.D. Night on about the same plan as was used last year. We expect to hold a dinner-dance at the Statler Hotel to which the ladies will be invited ... . iust a social get-together ... . The plan worked out beautifully last year. Paul Hoeffler added a note on the Buffalonians. Paul had just had a call from Herm Centliver, who is eastern representative for the advertising firm that handles General Motors. Herm is doing re­search work. Fred Pralatowski, secretary of the Buffalo Club, is the new father of a baby boy. The 
C.S.C. Missionaries, Fathers French, Dolan and Car­ney, recently conducted a mission in Buffalo and were entertained by the Club members. 
CALUMET REGION Tim Galvin has been attending N.D. and K.C. functions every place else in the State and ought to be able to give Chick Bader and the Calumet Dis­trict gang a treat by staying home for the Night. Frank Galvin, we heard some place, has just been convalescing from a rather substantial sick spell. 
CHICAGO The new ofiicers of the Chicago Club are planning to fire the opening guns of their year on the 23rd. Jack Scallan is the new publicity chairman of the Club. Danny Hilgartner deserves all the medals and service stripes the Club can produce for him, and the Editor sighs with mingled regret and hope as he goes about the task of revamping the Scallan per­son. Frank Fitzsimmons, El. '27, is chairman of the Night. CINCINNATI Leo Du Bois sent out cards for the regular lunch­eon meeting on April 3rd at which time plans were to be perfected for the 23rd. With Ed McHugh, na­tional Director of the Association, on the ground. Cincinnati isn't to be worried about. 
CLEVELAND No details from the presidential headquarters have arrived, but, like Cincinnati, even moreso, the stamp­ing grounds of President Murphy ought to be the Beacon. And it was Cleveland, you'll remember that produced "Thundergust." 
CENTRAL OHIO 
Ray Eichenlaub sends word that Columbus and Central Ohio are out for a Big Night With Don Hamilton nominated for President of the Association, it gives the Buckeye politicians a big chance to push a "native son." Ray says that the meeting will probably be one for the ladies as well as the members, so its success is practically guaranteed to begin with. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
Now that the nominating committees have done so well, "Peaches" Granfield can turn his attention celebrating the 23rd with the Connecticut Valley as the scene of the event. The campus Connecticut Valley men are going strong, having just elected new officers. Rev. Frederick McKeon, C.S.C, for­merly of New Haven, was made honorary president; Tom Shea, '29, of Holyoke, pres.; Willard Wagner, '29, Greenfield, vice-pres.: Dan Halpin, '31, New Haven, sec.; John Ciani, '29, New Britain, treas. Dean J. E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce wasr made an honorary member. 
DENVER 
No word from the mountains. But there's bound to be b'ar. And remembering the "broadcasting program from. Alma Mater" that Alden Cusick put across last year, Denver isn't causing any gray hairs in the sanctum. 
DETROIT 

The Detroit outfit has been growing rather rapidly of late and it is surprising how many good N. D. men are dodging automobiles, no exceptions any more, in that busy city. A Glee Club concert has kept them busy, the Editor deduces from nothing at all, but he will also bet one of those rare editorial two-bit pieces that a Notre Dame man in Detroit on the Night of the 23rd will find something doing. 
DES MOINES 

The "Des Moines alumni, although few in number, plan an enthusiastic Notre Dame Night with an in­formal smoker in the lounge of the Grant Club. Plana will then be completed for the usual dinner to be given in honor of the track team when they come to Des Moines for the Drake Relays the next Saturday." That from John Hynes, president. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 

The Secretary has the hope of visiting the N. D. Club of the District of Columbia sometime between now and April 20th. But it is quite probable that this important event will not interfere with plans for the 23rd. 
FORT WAYNE 
N. D. men in Fort Wayne are so closely identi­fied with the Catholic Community Center there that we presume all of them have had the pleasure of hearing two splendid addresses given there during March by Prof. Charles Phillips on Mexico, and by Rev. W. A. Bolger, C.S.C, on companionate mar­

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
riage and birth control. With Cliff Ward trying to Hooverize Indiana from Indianapolis headquarters no word has come of the Night. 
GREEN BAY No word having come from the frozen north in some time, the Alumni Office has despatched the Engels Brothers, natives of the Green Bay region and now members of the faculty, to explore the dis­trict during the Easter holidays, and it is hoped that a celebration of the Night will result. 
INDIANAPOLIS Leroy J. Keach writes that Indianapolis is going to forget the political turmoil, even the Democrats, for a night and celebrate the Night. Indianapolis was one of the early applicants for the movies and they will probably see just how Riley, an Indianapolis alumnus, made the famous play. No one has seen it yet, but it's an inducement. JOLIET 
Joliet has elected new officers. Brother Lawrence Joseph, F.S.C., is the new president. Ed King is vice-pres.; Harold Carey, sec.; and Bill Bossingham, treas. The new officers immediately set about pre­paring for Universal Notre Dame Night and invite all N. D. men within reach of Joliet to attend. 
KANSAS CITY Maurice Carroll, secretary of the K. C. Club, sends in the following interesting program planned for the 23rd: Dinner at Catholic Community Club; talk by Conrad Mann, honorary pres.; two three-round box­ing bouts; movies of one of the football games (they came early, too) ; two acts from one of the K. C. vaudeville houses, and Notre Dame songs en masse. Dr. Nigro, president, will be toastmaster. KENTUCKY Kentucky got under the wire too late for films, but they are planning a big Night in Louisville, a letter from Eddie Pfeffer states. It shouldn't be long before Kentucky will be able to fill up the gap that prohibition left in its Big Three, with Universal Notre Dame Night. LOS ANGELES No word from the far West, but Los Angeles has too many alumni of long standing to let the Night pass unobserved, and next month's ALUMNUS will probably carry the details of a typical L. A. party. JLVNILA Difficulty of communication has kept Manila silent, but Alfonso Zobel wrote some time ago that the 
N. D. men there were getting anxious to do some­thing, and some mail steamer in May ought to pro­duce the story. 
MEMPHIS There won't be any blues in Memphis the 23rd unless the Editor is a poor guesser. Red Mageveny probably has baseball fever, as we haven't heard anything definite, but we confidently expect to shortly before or after. MIAAH VALLEY Nor is there word from the Valley. But there also they have a habit of doing what is to be done. Doc Weaver and William Shea ought to round up enough fellows to celebrate. 
MILWAUKEE 

Milwaukee has never had a hard time getting a party started. It is a natural location. Tom Kel­ley and Doc Dundon are the guiding geniuses of that outlying precinct, but haven't reported the na­ture of the event yet. 
NASHVILLE 

The Tennessee group, like Memphis, aren't the first to write in, but file this little forecast—they'll be listed here next month. 
NEBRASKA 

John Mithen hasn't sent in any dope from Omaha, but it doesn't take occult powers to envision the Notre Dame men in Nebraska bringing N. D. before the public of their section. 
NEW ORLEANS Little has been heard from the Sunny South ex­cept that P. E. Burke was making plans to enter­tain the Ball Team when they played Loyola April a and 10. This ought to pep up the Molasses men for a big Night. 
NEW JERSEY New Jersey is the lucky Club for this Night. None other than the Editor has accepted their gracious invitation to be with them that particular date. Their activity is attested by this issue—a task from which larger Clubs shrunk. 
NEW YORK CITY As a little warming up exercise the New York Club went out to help the Bengal Mission by push­ing a concert of the Glee Club in Brooklyn on April 
14. The concert was to be held in Columbus Coun­cil auditorium. Fathers McGinn and Havey, C.S.C, were instrumental in making the arrangements and it looked at the time of writing as if Poor Ben would be less so after the 14th. The N. Y. dele­gation are expected to be plenty busy from now till June. With the Catholic Alumni Federation Conven­tion there April 20-21-22, of which Hugh O'Donnell and John Balfe are important officers, and with Ambrose O'Connell a presidential nominee, things will hum. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA Something is wrong in the Rockies. Only from the Great Northwest where Morrie Starrett has given up journalism for real estate, has anything definite trickled in. However, San Francisco is ex­pected to come out of the fog on the 23rd with all the glory of the Golden Gate. 
OKLAHOMA , The Oklahoma Club is trying to dope out ways and means of celebrating the 23rd without getting mixed up in the oil scandal, the Editor assumes from the uniforamtive silence. 
PARIS Pat Harl hasn't sent over any communiques and this isn't the thriving time of year for the Paris Club. Nevertheless Paris is a great city for cele­brating and the next time Lindbergh goes over the Editor expects him to bring back a snappy report from the Paris journalists. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
PORTLAND AVilliam C. Schmitt wrote in for some N. D. music, stating that the Portland outfit are planning some stunts that will close up the gap between N. D. and the Northwest. 
PHILADELPHLV Jim O'Donnell dropped an invitation to the Edi­tor to stop at Philadelphia for the 23rd, but New Jersey caught the worm and the Quakers will just have to worry along. With the gang they have there this year they can probably forget the Blue Laws for a Night. 
ROCHESTER A stag dinner followed by a bowling tournament is the line-up Royal Bosshard sends in. Gerry Smith wrote about the same time. It seems S. A. is draw­ing the Rochester boys. All wrong. It's South America. Dut Griffin went to Chile and now Art Hohman, '27, has left for the southern continent. However, newcomers are substituting. Jerry Mor­sches is centering in Rochester for the Fort Wayne Corrugated Paper Co. Another invitation to spend 
U.N.D. Night for the Editor. The next Night will probably be based on a sliding scale. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
The St. Joseph Valley outfit, the "home guard" o" the Association, are drilling faithfully and promise some powerful maneuvers the 23rd. In addition, monthly dinner meetings of real interest and a Glee Club concert are occupying their attention. At the last meeting, March 29, Prof. Phillips was the prin­cipal speaker and the officers for the coming year were nominated. Election is on the bill for the Night. Father Carroll spoke at the March meeting, and several musicixins from the University aided ma­terially. The Glee Club will sing under the Club auspices in the Palais Royal May 7. Universal N. D. Night is in charge of Herb Jones, who is aiding .•^rt Haley in forging 50-yard tickets for the coming sea­son, and Bernie VoU, one of the ever-bearing alumni of the local organization. 
ST. LOUIS "Hunk" Anderson's advent as head coach of St. Louis U. has brought Notre Dame closer to St. Louis than usual. Joe McGIynn is getting the boys organized for a big year. 
SYRACUSE 
A stag dinner for the N. D. men in Syracuse and Central New York and election of officers for the year, with probably a special speaker on Notre Dame, is the program of the N.D. Club. The Onon­daga Hotel, 6:30 P.M., is the time. All alumni in the section are urged to notify Bill Sullivan, 122 E. Genesee St., if you can make it. And another invi­tation for the Editor! Such popularity must be pre­ser\-ed. 
TOLED.O 
The Editor will appear at a dinner of the Toledo Club April 16 and will then know all things face to face. But at present the plans for the 23rd call for a dinner-dance at which John Hurley says the Toledo gang is slated to get together and get acquainted. 
TWIN CITIES The American Alumni Council meets this year in Minneapolis on May 3, 4 and 5. And the Notre Dame delegate wants to go up to find out whether the silence of the Twin Cities Club is mourning for Jim Swift or whether Paul Skahen and Tom Lee, the Minneapolis officers of the Club, have been seri­ously affected by Minnesota's great "moral victory" of last November. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Pittsburgh's plans are still hidden behind the smoke, but where there's smoke there's fire. And we hope to see the whites of their eyes on the way to New York. UTAH Ray Brady can always be counted upon to keep Utah alive to its N.D. residents. Ray writes that the Club will be much in the fireworks in Salt Lake City on the 23rd. A stag dinner at the University Club will be the principal attraction. Election of officers will be held and plans for helping the team on its way to or from the Coast after the Southern Cal. game. Ray states that twenty N.D. men are e.\'­pected—a good crowd in that part of the country (of 
N.D. men, anyhow). 
WABASH VALLEY "The moonlight's bright the Night along the Wa­bash." Herman Kamp drops a note to say that a big time is going to be had by all. Dinner and dancing are the chief threads. Jimmy Phelan will be the speaker of the evening. Some of the movies will be shown. Herman says that eighty-six tickets had been sold April 3, so it looks like a real observance. WESTERN WASHINGTON Morrie Starret wrote recently that he was on his way to Seattle to see about the Night, so no more need be said. If there is a Night to be had. West­ern AVashington will have it. 
WOMEN'S CLUB Sr. M. Eleanore, C.S.C., president, has promised to ask all the Communities where Notre Dame grad­uates are present, to observe the Night in some fash­ion. There are many Houses in the various Orders that could do this very nicely, and it would be a fine annual activity for the many Sisters who have enjoyed the atmosphere of Notre Danie. YOUNGSTOWN It is too bad to close with a Club unheard from. But some poet has said "Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard .are sweeter." May the report from Youngstown after the Night be sweeter. UN0RG.4NIZED CLUBS The Editor hopes to list the Notre Dame Clubs of Escanaba, Boston, Montana, LaSalle (111.) and ter­ritory, San Antonio (and Austin) ; Grand Rapids. Houston and Galveston, and Dallas and Fort Worth. There are probably other communities that could form a Club. If you can, don't wait for the office to find you. Get busy and if you need help, we'll be glad to help you. If you live in the above com­munities and haven't been approached, let us know. Probably your name is not correct on the records. The big thing, is to get in on the ground floor. The Clubs are just beginning to feel their way into the broad plain of achievement. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
/ 928-1929 Officers Nominate J 
PRESIDENT Donald H. Hamilton, '12, Columbus, Ohio. Ambrose A. O'Connell, '07, New York City 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
•William A, Draper, '07, Chicago, 111. Arthur J. Hughes, '11, '17, Chicago, III. TREASURER 
Both Committees nominated Walter Duncan, '12, La Salle, 111. DIRECTOR (4-year term) 
M. Harry JMiller, '10, Cleveland, Ohio. John F. O'Connell, '13, Chicago, HI. 
AMBROSE O'CONNELL. New York City 
Candidate for President 

In accordance with the Constitution of the Association the Nominating Committees appointed by President John P. Murphy have made the above nominations for the oifices which are to be filled by election for the year beginning June 3, 1928. 
In accordance with the Constitution, the nominations are listed alphabetically and do not represent the tickets as presented by the Committees. 
These nominations will appear in THE ALUMNUS next month also. In the mean­time, according to Article VII, Sec. 3, of the Constitution, "Any twenty-five members, not more than ten of whom shall reside in 
DON HAMILTON. Columbus. Ohio 
Candidate for President 

any one county, may, by petition addressed to the Secretary, make • other nominations, providing this is done by filing same •with the Secretary not later than April 30th. Such nominations shall alsa be published in THE ALUMNUS after they are received, as in the preceding section required." 
A glance at the nominations shows clear­ly the splendid work that the Nominating Committees have done. These Committees consisted of William E. Cotter, '13, 30 E. 42nd St., New York City, chairman, with Frank X. Cull, 'OS, Bulkley Bldg., Cleveland, and Leroy J. Keach, 'OS, lOS S. Delaware St., Indianapolis; the other Committee, 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Thomas A. J. Dockweiler, '12, Van Nuys Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif., chairman, with Fred L. Steers, '11, First Natl. Bank Bldg., Chicago, and William J. Gi-anfield, '13, State Bldg.,, 1200 Main, St., Springfield, Mass. 
Nominations for officers of the National Association are important. They have al­ways .been important. The officers have al­ways represented Notre Dame. But with the Association just entering its real sphere of constructive work it is more essential than ever that men who know Notre Dame and have her interests at heart should be at the head of the organization that is in the best position to further her development. 
The Nominating Committees have worked well with this in mind. Both presidential candidates are men who were prominent in school, and who have been prominent since leaving school. The same holds true for the candidates for vice-president. The splendid work of Mr. Duncan as treasurer, a job which only Mr. Cartier and Mr. Duncan can appreciate fully, is recognized in his nomination by both Committees. This year the term of k. C. McHugh, '13, of Cincin­nati, expires. For four years Mr. McHugh has served the Association as a Director and has never missed a meeting of the Board. His full cooperation and constructive ideas have made his membership.on the Board a real asset to the Association. In nominating his successor, the Committees have shown a recognition of the new importance that has become attached to the Board of Directors. The position is no longer just an honor. It is one requiring constructive thought and some sacrifice of time, but it is one in which members of the Association can ex­press in a concrete way their loyalty to No­tre Dame. Next month's ALUMNUS will carry a fuller write-up of the candidates. 
JOINS STAFF OF NEA 
Dennis J. O'Neill, son of a former lieu­tenant governor to Indiana and an alum­nus of the University of Notre Dame, is one of the latest additions to the editorial staff of the Newspaper Enterprise Associa­tion, Cleveland, 0. 
While a student at the University, O'Neill was a member of the South Bend News-Times staff. 

WOMEN'S CLUB 
Sr. M. Fidelis," O.S.U.,' 1st vice-president, sends the following message: '' 
"Let's so back to Notre Dame! The time is April 23rd. The occasion is Universal ' » Notre Dame Night." 
This is the unique message of the President of Notre Dame Alumni, announced to all Notre Damers in the last issue of THE ALUMNUS. 
Do we need to be aroused to take part in Uni­versal Notre Dame Night? Our loyalty, surely will suggest a way, all our own, of getting back in spirit to the dear old campus. 
The attendance of the Sisters and lay women at Notre Dame dates only from 1918, but all, unquestion­ably, have caught what Father Walsh calls the No­tre Dame spirit, and will be "back at N.D." on Notre Dame Night. 
Yes: we still sing "O Notre Dame, thou beaute­ous place;" our victrola still plays the Notre Dame Victory March. The rest of the program for the occasion will no doiubt in most cases, be a com­munity affair, I'not confined to Sister graduates from Notre Dame. 
With everyone interested, we certainly shall have a glorious "celebration. Perhaps, we shall even fin­ish up in good old Summer School fashion, just as we always did after Commencements. You remember? 
I need hardly add, we'll not omit getting back to the hallowed atmosphere which naturally appealed to us most; the gray daw-n of April twenty-third will find us wending our way, in spirit, to the little Log Chapel and there at Mass and Holy Communion telling our hearts' best wishes for the University where Our Lady, "robed in gold," presides as ever between heaven and her beloved Notre Dame. 
Let's go back! 


PLAYWRITING PRIZE 
Aiming to stimulate interest in the Catholic theater movement and especially to encourage the writing and production of plays by Catholic dramatists, the William Mitchell Memorial Award for Playwriting has just been established at the University of Notre Dame. The award is a perpetual one and comprises an endowment of $1,000, offering a prize of fifty dollars in gold to be given annually to the University stu­dent enrolled in the, Notre Dame Play­writing Course who writes the best play of the year. The donors are Mr. and Mrs. Joseph V. Mitchell of Rockville Center, New York, whose only child, William Mitchell was killed in an automobile acci­dent March 21, 1927, while a student at Notre Dame. The prize will be awarded for the first time at the commencement ex­ercises in June, when the prize-winning play will be produced. 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 




EDITORIAL 
DOWN GRADE The Association year is on 
the wane. It has been marked 

with many progressive steps. President 
John Murphy of Cleveland and the Board 
of Directors have put into this year much 
valuable time and thought. For themselves ? 
On the contrary it has cost them personal 
sacrifices. They did what they could be­
cause they appreciate Notre Dame. 
Two months of the present year remain. 

There is a tendency on the part of the 
members of the Association to coast. The 
speed and excitement of the football season 
aren't present. But there is. no more op­
portune time for the real constructive work 
of the organization. 
The least members can do, even if they 

are not entirely awake yet to the merits of 
the Association, is to support the officers 
that their confidence has placed in charge 
of Alumni affairs. Universal Notre Dame 
Night and Commencement are the high­
lights of the remaining months. Their suc­
cess will either complete or ruin the work 
of the year. See that they complete it. 
YOUNG MEN The ALUMNUS calls atten­
tion to this issue as indicating 

the active interest that the younger gradu­
ates are taking in the work of the Associa­
tion. The New Jersey Committee that made 
this issue a success was composed of gradu­
ates of 1926 and 1927. Young men every­
where are anxious to progress. The older 
Alumni can contribute immeasurably to the 
success of Notre Dame and the Association 
by lending the wisdom of experience to the 
younger group in their community, and by 
encouraging them to take active part in the ' Alumni work. 
NOMINATIONS Names of Oflicers proposed 
for the Association year 

1928-9 are announced in this issue. The 
conduct of the Association is going to affect 
you more next year than it has this, and 
will increase constantly in its influence on you as a Notre Dame man. You owe it to yourself and to the Association to take an active part in the elections. Don't with­hold your interest just because you think "they're all right." A big vote gives the successful candidates assurance of the inter­est and support of the entire Association. Study the slates. And when you receive your ballots next month, fill them out and return them. 
THE BALL The Senior Ball Committee for 
1928, through Chairman Jim Shocknessy of Springfield, Ohio, has issued an invitation to all Alumni to. attend the 1928 Ball. This is a departure from recent tradition. It gives Alumni a splendid opportunity to attend the premier social event of the undergi-aduate year. It gives opportunity to establish contact with the men of '28 who will be Alumni next year. THE ALUMNUS urges that an apprecia­tion of this invitation be shown in a repre­sentative Alumni attendance May 11. 
DUES The omnipresent. This outburst is 
occasioned by the unnecessary pover­ty in which the Association finds" itself at the present time. We are unable to be represented where we should be represented. We are unable to carry on activities that should be carried on. We are unable to equip ourselves as we should be equipped. And not because our potential energies have been exhausted at all. But because of care­lessness. In looking over the list of those whose dues for 1927-28 are unpaid it is appalling to see the number of men who have shown in one way or another that they recognize the merits of Alumni organiza­tion, and yet who have failed to translate that recognition into the particular fonn that, makes its realization possible. There still remain a month and a half before the end of this fiscal year. It is sincerely hoped that these names will be shifted to the right side of the ledger before June 1. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
rACTS AND rANCIES 
Prof. Greene's Book 

"The Chemistry of Health" is the title of a book just published by Prof. Robert Lee Greene of the University faculty. Prof. Greene's book translates the technicalities of the problem of health into terms that the unti-ained man can understand. It has become decidedly popular in the brief period since its publication, and promises to take an important place in its field. Rockne has praised the book highly. The book is a broad sun-ey of the whole field of influences aifecting the health and is based on the central idea that "life is a.series of chem­ical reactions designed to operate ^vith six­teen elementary reagents which are found in foods." The book is being handled per­sonally by Prof. Greene, who is head of the department of pharmacy. He has been at Notre Dame since 1902 and is widely known to the Chem alumni. 
St. Patrick Day Plays 

The University Theater repeated its tri­umphs of last year by presenting very suc­cessfully two one-act plaj's in Washington Hall March 17. Tlie plays were "The Good Man," by Orv'ille Murch, Alpena, Mich., a student of Prof. Phillips class in pla>'^vrit­ing, and "A Sign and a Wonder" by Mur­ray Young, also a student of Prof. Phil­lips, who has won much additional fame as a poet under the pen name Prospero Image. 
Secretary to New York 

Among the prominent speakers at the National Catholic Alumni Federation Con­vention in New York City (carfare per­mitting) will be James E. Armstrong (this department is anonymous), who is scheduled to talk on "Why the Full Time Alumni Secretary?" All Alumni within a comrtiut­ing radius are urged to attend, as the Sec­retary has been asked this same question so many times by Notre Dame men that he has a twinge of conscience whenever the monthly check comes in (only temporary, however). Other speakers are Hon. James J. Walker, His Eminence, Patrick Cardinal Hayes, T. A. Daly, LL.D., '17, and Theo­dore McManus, LL.D., '14. The dates of the Convention are April 20, 21 and 22, at the Waldorf Astoria. (Armstrong can be reached better at 231 Berkeley Place, Brooklyn, where a day-bed has been graci­ously proifered by the understanding col­ony there.) 
If and when the above Secretary returns, he is supposed to attend a Convention of the American Alumni Council in Minneapo­lis, May 3, 4 and 5. Both these organiza­tions are decidedly worthy and should find Notre Dame represented. Tlie proximity of the meetings is unfortunate, but if it can be done it will. 
Joseph Scott, K. S. G. 

Joseph Scott, LL.D., '15, prominent at­torney and Catholic lajrman, Laetare Medal­list in 1918, has recently been made a ICnight of St. Gregoiy by Pope Pius XL Mr. Scott is a famous orator and has spoken at Notre Dame many times. A son. Father George Scott, a former student, is studying advanced theology in Rome, and a second son, Pat, is studying there for the priest­hood. A third son, Al, LL.B., '22, and Leo 
B. Ward, '20, are associated ^vith Mr. Scott in the practice of law in Los Angeles. 
Invitation to Ball. 

James Shocknessy, chairman of the 1928 Senior Ball, invites all Alumni to attend the function. The Ball will be held on Friday, May 11, at the Palais Royal. The Ball Committee had not yet selected an orchestra when this was written, but was in line for an organization of national prominence. 
Literature Flourishes 

The Scribblers Club and the SANTA MARIA are sponsoring two short story con­tests. The K. of C. entries closed March 26, the winners to appear in a Celebrities Number of the magazine, to include articles by Willa Gather, Sen. David I. Walsh, A. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
R. Erskine, O. O. Mclntyre, Very Rev. M. 
J. Walsh, C.S.C, Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C, Very Rev. C. L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, K. K. Rockne, and others The Scribblers contest will close April 20. 
Hibernians Present Book 
The Public Library of South Bend was recently, presented with "Nuns of the Bat­tlefield," the book by Mrs. Ellen Ryan Jolly, LL.D., '18, through the Ancient Order of Hibernians and the Ladies Auxiliary of that organization. Mrs. Jolly was at Notre Dame for a great part of the time she was engaged in writing the book. 
Lawyers Ball 

The second annual Lawyers Ball will be held April 20th. William L. Daily, Wil­kinsburg. Pa., was appointed general chair­man. Last year's affair was so outstanding that the campus is looking forward to a repetition with unusually keen interest. 
Hoynes Night Observed 

March 21 the students and faculty of the College of Law met in the faculty dining room of the new Dining Hall to obseive the annual Hoynes Night, in tribute to Col. William Hoynes, dean emeritus of the Col­lege. Besides the Colonel, Judge Marcus Kavanaugh of Cliicago and Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, were the principal speakers. This year the group honoring Col. Hoynes was augmented by a number of prominent attorneys of this section who studied under Col. Hoynes. 
Absurdities Successful 

The 1928 Monogram Absurdities were successfully presented in Washington Hall on March 27, 28 and 31. Much of the popu­lar local color was absent but was made up in part by the presentation of two en­tertaining skits, "The Student Prince of Denmark," by J. P. McEvoy, El. '21, and "The Girl from Knock-Kneed Gulch" by Harry Engel, '28. Fred Collins starred. 
Brunswick Concert. 

Joe Lyons, Brunswick's Te.x Rickard, brought down some of his aces for a most successful entertainment in Washington Hall March 23. Lee Sims at the piano, Marie Morrissey, contralto, a string quar­tet from the Chicago Symphony, and Jules Huberbeaux's orchestra were the visiting artists. The Notre Dame Glee Club, which has recorded several times for Brunswick, filled out the unusual program, which met the enthusiastic approval of a packed hall. 
Glee Club Tour 
The Notre Dame Glee Club is giving the East a treat during the Easter vacation but they will be back by the time this comes out. Manager Andy Mulreany didn't have a definite itinerary ready for publication before he left, but promises a story of the trip for May. 

Dean JMcCarthy, Jr. Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Commerce is the father of a nine pound boy, bom Sunday, April first. "Big Mac" received his education at Columbia U., be­ing graduated from there in 1916. For five years he was engaged in foreign commerce, coming to Notre Dame in 1921. He suc­ceeded Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, as Dean of the College of Commerce. Dean McCar­thy was married immediately after school was out last summer to Miss Dorothy Ho-ban of Chicago. Mac says he is going to keep the junior dean out of Commerce, probably put him in Journalism. 
Notre Dame's Police 

You don't have to wait for the watch­man to rattle his keys any more to recog­nize him. The moon now shines on badges and brass buttons, and the campus is pa­trolled day and night by a force of snappy coppers that would do credit to any com­munity. The departure isn't because of student lawlessness. Notre Dame is no lon­ger the secluded institution it once was. It is very much in the public eyes and high­ways. Visitors are frequent. The value of property has increased tremendously. The art galleries, the Church, and the labora­tories contain valuable objects and equip­ments, much of which could not be replaced. Traffic has become a real problem. Hence the new force. Joseph H. Kennedy, a vet­eran of the Chicago police force, is in charge of the new organization. Chief Ken­nedy was on the Chicago force for twenty-three years. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
J. p. MCNAMARA 



ATHLETICS 
N. D. SIGNS NORTHWESTERN 

A four year football contract between Northwestern university and Notre Dame was announced April 7. Seven games be­tween the varsity and second teams will be played. 
The varsity elevens of the two schools will meet annually for three years, starting at Evanston on November 23, 1929. The 1930 game will also be at Dyche stadium the last Saturday of the Big Ten season, with the site» shifting to South Bend in 1931. 
•During these years the reserve teams of the two schools will meet simultaneously, at the field opposite of the varsity game,, in 1929 and 1930 at South Bend and in Evans­ton in 1931. 
A game between the second teams of the two schools was also agreed upon for this fall at Evanston. It will be played Oct. 13, preceding the Purple-Kentucky varsity game and will mark the resumption of grid­iron relations between the two schools after a year's lapse. 
Details of the games were arranged be­tween Coaches Rockne and Hanley here this week. Indiana university seconds will meet the Purple reser\'es at Evanston, Nov. 17, 1928, the day the regulars play at Bloomington, it was also announced. 
The last time Northwestern and Notre Dame met at football was two years ago. The Irish defeated Northwestern there, 6 to 0. 
An innovation next season will be the use of second teams of both universities. The Notre Dame and Northwestern second teams will play in Chicago October 20. Kentucky meets the Northwestern regulars there the same day. 
Other western conference schools also will' try out the scheme of playing second team games. Kenneth D. Wilson, Purple athletic director, is uncertain about its suc­cess. 
Former Football Coach Dies Frank Longman, who coached the Notre Dame football team in 1909-10 and 1910-11, died in the University hospital at Ann Ar­bor, Michigan, from tuberculosis on April 
3. Longman was 46 years old. He was a member of the Michigan football team in 1903-04-05, a teammate of the famous Hes­ton, and a veteran in the early Michigan-Notre Dame games. Longman was coach­ing at Notre Dame when Rockne, Dorais and illustrious teammates came into the 
N.D. fold. 
Crowe, Smith All-Western Coach George Keogan entered the charm­ed circle of "miracle men" when it was an­nounced that two members of Notre Dame's "green team" had been named on the Offi­cial All-Western Basketball Team, picked by Fred Young. With the graduation of Njakos and Conroy, selected on last years' first All-Western, and with McNally and Dahman, who were close behind, also gone, Notre Dame was not looked for to place when the season opened. Hence the sur­prise when the team showed such promise through the year and when Crowe and Smith developed so quickly into national prominence. Besides the two N.D. men the first five consisted of Bennie Oosterbaan of Michigan, forward; "Stretch" Murphy of Purdue, center; and Harry Kenner, also of Purdue, guard. Kenner and Crowe are for­mer teammates of Jefferson High, Lafay­ett.e. Francis Crowe is the brother of Clem Crowe, '25, and Ed Crowe, '26, both promi­nent in basketball. Ed Smith is a South Bend High graduate. This Indiana basket­ball prestige isn't a myth. Several other 
N. D. players received honorable mention. 
Two Basket Captains Joe Jachym, captain of this year's basket­ball team, was re-elected as captain of the 1928-29 team, to be co-captain next year however, with Francis Crowe, All-Western forward. The election was held at the an­
nual basketball banquet given by the Vil­
• "I don't know where I'm going to get a 

lagers Club, March 20. 
second team," he said. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Brownson Track Champs by Harry Russell of Cornell in 1926. 
The Interhall indoor Track championship was won by Brownson Hall in a stiff and well-regulated meet in the gym St. Pat­rick's Day. Sophomore and Freshman halls were close competitors placing second and third by narrow margins. The win­ners, scored 38, Sophomore 33 ^y^, Freshman 22, Carroll 16^A, Howard 16, Morrissey 3 and Lyons 3. 
Elder Ties World Record 

Jack Elder, Notre Dame's star sprinter, lived up to forecasts at the Illinois Relays on March 17 by tying the world's record in the 7.5-yard dash, 7 2-5 seconds, established 
DEATHS 

EDWARD J. LENNON. LL.B., '23, died Monday. April 2, in St. Joseph Hospital Fort Wayne, Ind. Death was caused by apoplexy which followed two operations for appendicitis. Mr. Lennon had appar­ently recovered from these and was planning to re­turn to the home of his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Ed­ward J. Lennon Sr.. 121 E. Pontiac St., Fort Wayne. 
Deputy attorney-general of the State of Indiana, an aide to the now famous Arthur Gilliom. "Eddie" Lennon was probably as well along the highway to success as any of the members of his Class, and his unexpected death will be a shock to them and the many other friends his activities at Notre Dame made for him. 
Mr. Lennon was born and reared in Fort Wayne. He attended St. Patrick's parochial schools and grad­uated from the Catholic Central high school. In 1923 he graduated from the law school at Notre Dame University. He was admitted to the practice of law the year of his graduation and at the time was the youngest member of the Allen County Bar Association. 
In 1924 Mr. Lennon received the appointment of assistant to Attorney-General Arthur L. Gilliom. Since that time he had made his home at the Columbia Club, Indianapolis. 
Mr. Lennon was popular in many circles outside his profession. When he was a student at Notre Dame he was made student manai^er of athletics by Coach Knute Rockne, the first time such an appoint­ment had ever been made at Notre Dame. 
He was a member of St. Patrick's church, the Holy Name Society, Notre Dame Council Knights of Columbus, and was treasurer of the Indiana Catholic Printing and Publishing Co., Indianapolis. 
Besides the parents there is surviving one sister. Miss Irene Lennon, at home. 
Funeral services were held at the home Wednes­day morning, April 4, and at 9:00 o'clock at St. Patrick's church, followed by interment in the Cath­olic cemetery. 
N. D. AIl-American Swimmer 
Hugh McCaffrey, '27, last year's captain 

of the N.D. swimming team, has been 
named on the honorary Ail-American Inter­
collegiate team picked by Frank J. Sulli­
, van. He is the first Notre Dame man to be accorded this, distinction. 
Cronin Captains Swimmers 
William Cronin was named captain of the 

1929 swimming team at a meeting of the 
monogram swimmers March 27. Cronin 
has been a prominent member of the team 
for the past two season. 
Deep sorrow over the untimely passing of Deputy Attorney-General Edward J. Lennon was expressed by Attorney-General Arthur L. Gilliom. 
"Mr. Lennon was a very efficient official, extreme­ly conscientious and hard working. I feel his loss both personally and officially. His death is like the loss of a brother to me." 
HON. WOODBRIDGE N. FERRIS, LL.D., '24, Mich­igan's most illustrious Democrat, and at the time of his death United States Senator from that state, died Friday, March 23. 
Education was Senator Ferris' first calling, and his years of work in establishing the Ferris Insti­tute at Big Rapids have won him a reputation equal to the fame that came to him in the political field. Senator Ferris was the Commencement speaker at Notre Dame in 1924, delivering a scholarly talk that will long be remembered at the University. He has also spoken a number of times to South Bend groups. 
SISTER M. ANGELITA C.S.C, a member of the famous Zahm family, so closely allied with Notre Dame and the Holy Cross, died in Washington, D. C, Friday, March 16. Three members of the Zahm family joined the Sisters of Holy Cross, and a fourth the Holy Cross priests. This fourth member was the famous Father John Zahm, historian, sci­entist and explorer, who accompanied Roosevelt on his expedition to the "River of Doubt". The surviving members of the family are Sister M. Angeline, C.S.C, who is at St. Mary's Notre Dame, and Albert Zahm, 
A.B. '83 : A.M. '85 : M.S. '90 : LL.D. '17; and holder of the Laetare Medal, who is now connected with the Department of Aeronautics at Washington and one of the country's leading authorities in that field. 
Brief word was received by THE ALUMNUS that SISTER BEATRICE, S.M., New Orleans, La., a sis­ter of Angus McDonald, '00, president of the South­
THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
em Pacific R. R., died at the Convent of Mercy in New Orleans on Thursday, March 29. She was bur­ied from the home of her mother in New Orleans on April 1. Mr. McDonald, whose offices are in Nev.- York, went to New Orleans for the funeral. 
PERSONAL 
• 18/8 
The 50-year Class 
It looks as though EUGENE F. ARNOLD, Wash­ington, D. C, will have to be the sole representa­tive of the Class at Commencement. Mr. Arnold is the only living member of the Class in the Office records. The Class was small, numbering but twelve graduates, and from these twelve death has taken hea\Y toll. 
1886-87-88-S9 
The Dix Reunion Group 
Your Classes have things to remember that the Notre Dame of today will never know again. You have a duty to come back and recite the glorious stories of your years at the University, as well as the privilege and the pleasure of meeting again the men who were here with you. 
HON. WARREN CARTIER, '87, dropped a line from Fort Myers last month, his winter quarters, saying that he was "pleased to learn the dates for Commencement, and it looks as though Mr. Cartier, who was absent from Commencement last year for the first time in many years, will be back among his friends again this June. 
COL. J. E. CUSACK, '89, is now retired and liv­ing at 229 E. Craig Place, San Antonio, Texas, his wife, Mrs. Blanche Cusack, wrote the Office recently. Col. Cusack has been in ill health for two years but was retired only a year ago. His last station was at Fort Hayes, Columbus, O. 
1897 
Agnes Ewing Brown, of the Class of '97, St. Mary's, sent in an interesting note from Tucson, Ariz. "If you are not already informed, I know you will be interested to learn that JAMES D. BARRY, '97, has been elected president of the Bar Association of this county, and that the local papers have given considerable space to comment on the well merited honor and added their own eulogiums of "Jim" whose nine years residence as attorney of Tucson has won him widespread popularity and 
esteem. 1903 The Twcnt}--Five Year Class The 25-year group has a special significance in its Reunion this year. It was the Class of Very Rev. M. 
J. WALSH, C.S.C, President of Notre Dame, in whose administration much of the great expansion program of the University has been carried out. The members of the Class owe it to to Father Walsh to return for the silver anniversary of their graduation. 1905-06-07-08 The Other Dix Reunion Group 
You were in school when Notre Dame was begin­ning to feel the 20th Century urge. From your Classes came many of the priests who have worked so hard to develop that urge into the wonderful Uni­versity that now invites you to Commencement. These classmates of yours are waiting for you with a big surplus of the things that the world has taken away from many of you. Come back and freshen your supply. 
REV. DR. JOHN M. RYAN, C.S.C, '06, was the St. Patrick orator at the observance of that feast by the Kiwanis Club of Elkhart. Father Ryan gave an excellent talk on St. Patrick and his great influence in Ireland and in Western and Central Europe through his pupils. ROBERT PROCTOR, '04, a classmate of Father Ryan, is president of the Elk­hart Kiwanians and introduced Father Ryan. 
AMBROSE O'CONNELL, nominated for president of the Alumni Association, is also president of the famous Marquette Club of New York City, and was chairman of arrangements for a big St. Patrick's celebration which that organization held at the Ritz. JOHN BALFE, '20, was a committee chairman un­der Mr. O'Connell. 
1912 
JUDGE M. M. OSHE of Chicago is achieving much fine notice this year for his knowledge of the law, particularly as applied to real estate. Judge Oshe recently addressed the Real Property Institute of the Cook County Real Estate Board on "Tenancy, How Created and How Broken." 
1913 
In a sports write-up of baseball, John Kieran in the NEW YORK TIMES says, "Something should be said about the Phillies, preferably a kind word, if possible. Why should an otherwise respectable young man become a social outcast just because fate has draped a Phillie uniform over his honest frame? After all, a uniform isn't even skin deep. Thus it might be said that CY WILLIAMS has been a good hitter and an admirable figure in the game for lo! these many years. And he is a Notre Dame product. Another point in his favor . . ." 
1015 "ART CARMODY, who used to keep things wound up in Corby and Sorin and also in the infield of the Varsity baseball team is awful hard to get along with these days, according to his brother, MIKE, of the same Class. Arthur Roderick Junior, born last month, must be oil right. Congratulations should be addressed to 228 Dalzell Street, Shreveport, La." 1919 PROF. MAURUS had a letter not long ago from PATRICK J. MURRAY, who has been teaching for the past five years in the high school at "Williams­ville, N. Y. 
1S21 
Maybe St. Patrick's Day had something to do with it. Anyhow MORRIE STARRETT wrote from Port Townsend, Wash., that a business trip to Hawaii had taught him the uselessness of that life in which work is permitted to intrude. So Morrie has given up journalism (non-journalists please re-read) and has become exclusively associated with Port Townsend's booming real estate and insurance activities. 
1923 
John Montague, 1448 Albion Ave., Chicago, Sec 
The editorial columns of the last issue of the ALUMNUS paid a very fine compliment, to our class and as a result we are looked at as the pacemakers for the greatest Commencement N. D. has ever had. And since the class of '23 has always exceeded ex­pectations there will be more than a hundred at 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 309 
A Summer Camp for Boys 
WINTER,  WISCONSIN  ­ ON  HUNTER LAKE  
JUNE 28  ­  EIGHT WEEKS  ­ AUGUST 23  
and  
Two four weeks pei'iods.  

JUNE 28-JULY 26 and JULY 27-AUGUST 23 
EXPERT INSTRUCTION IN: 


Swimming, Canoeing, Baseball, Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis and Track Woodcraft and Nature Work 
SUMMER SCHOOL aitd TUTORING (Affiliated Summer School of Pio Nono High School, Milwaukee. 
Authorized credits in Primary and High School Subjects.) 
DIRECTOR (and Chaplain) : Rev. John J. O'Boyle, M.A., Pio Nono High School, St. Francis, Wis., (Near Mihvaukee)T 
ATHLETIC DIRECTOR: Thomas J. Lieb, M.A., Asst. Football and Track Coach, U. of Wisconsin; Graduate of Boy Guidance Course, University of Notre Dame. 
Three resident Priests and two Physicians. 
Address Inquiries to: REV. J. J. O'BOYLE, Pio Nono H. S., St. Francis, Milwaukee, Wis. 
Chicago Office: 

M. A. DWYER, 1663 E. 79th St. Phones j?°"*^ ^^°^®J??i^ . I Stewart 5267 (Home) 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
the class dinner on. the nieht of June First. And 
there should be, for the class of '22 ivhich was 
much smaller had forty-seven at their dinner last 
year. 
There is now functioning a system which is binding our class into a unit and which will make even more certain the success' of our reunion. The coun­try has been divided into thirteen zones, the bound­aries of which correspond roughly to the boundaries of the Federal Reserve System. In each zone there is one or more men who are spending time and money to get some word from every man in that zone. In zone Seven, which comprises Illinois, In­diana, Michigan, Iowa and Wisconsin, and where the most of the men are concentrated there is one man for each State. For the success of the reunion answei? any letters you may receive from the man in your zone, or better still write first and tell of your plans for June. Here is a list of the men and the districts they represent: 
Zone 1—^Michael G. Kane, 423 Main St., Spring­field, Mass. 
•Zone 2—Cullen Burke, State Dept. of Taxation, UUca, N. Y. ' Zone 3—August G. Desch, 924 City Centre Bldg., Philadelphia. 
Zone 4—^No men shown in class records. Zone 5—Cornie Pfeiffer, 940 Cherokee Road, Louis­ville, Ky. Zone 6—James Carmody, 1754 Irving Place, Shreveport, La. Illinois—^John Morton, 1522 Thorndale Ave., Chi­cago, 111. 
Indiana—Edward Kriemcr, 1127 E. Ewing St., South Bend. Michigan—Charles Martin, First National Bank Bldg., Detroit. Iowa—Frank Kennedy, 148 N. Walnut Ave., New Hampton. Wisconsin—^Henry Lauerman; 1975 Riverside Drive, Marinette. Zone S^HaroId Haynes, 5028 Sunset Drive, Kansas City, Mo. Zone 9—Patrick Wageman, 2800 Fannan St., Hou­
ton, Texas. Zone 10—^Haavel Grinager,- Fergus Falls, Minn. Zone 11—Hiomas HcHale, 1014 E. Street, Fair-
bury, Neb. Zone 12—E. Merlin Rolwing, 222 W. Adams St., Phoenix, Ariz. Zone 13—Gerald Hagan, The Bergonian Hotel, Seattle, Wash. 
This system is now functioning. Help lighten the job of these men, get in touch with them now if you have not already let us know of your Com­mencement intentions. 
REV. FRANK bRUMMEY. C'.S.C, is in Deming, 

N. M., and does not expect to be back in June but does plan to return to Notre Dame in the Fall. JERRY HAGAN writes from Seattle as follows r 
"I greatly fear that the old homestead will hold me close during the coming season, so I will be unable to add my voice to "Sweet Adeline" during the re­union this June—^would like nothing more than to get back but the Inn-keeping business is very rush-



THE OSBORN ENGINEERING CO. 
7016 EUCLID AVE. CLEVELAND. OHIO 
ENGINEERS AND ARCHITECTS 

Stadiums Grandstands Athletic Fields 
TWENTY YEARS EXPERIENCE 
Twenty-one Stadiums and Athletic Fields Thirteen Baseball Paries Five Fair Ground Grandstands 
WE WILL BE GLAD TO FURNISH REFERENCES 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
E. M. WALDRON  E. M. WALDRON, JR.  
President  Secretary  
W. J. WALDRON  J. R. WALDRON  
Vice  President  Treasurer  








Edward M. Waldron Incorporated 
Builders aod Engineers 
^ 

^\i^ 

27 Central Avenue Newark, N. J. 
312 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 


A FRIEND 
OF THE 

NEW JERSEY BOYS 
^ — • 
COMPLIMENTS 
of 



A FRIEND 
fro7n 
RAHWAY, NEW JERSEY 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
9 

RUPERT F. MILLS 




NOTRE DAME WIN OR LOSE 
JOS. M. BYRNE, JR. 
5 

ing-out here in the Charmed land—^Have been pretty much out of touch with the old school for several years, although I do manage to get up to Ned Coch­rane's office occasionally and help him pour (I mean pore) over the decisions of the various courts. E. BIM O'DONNELL is also here teaching the public to advertise. 
BILL VOSS, DICK CORDRAY and GEORGE PATTERSON have all replied and all three expect to be back in June. 
HY HUNT tells us that he took a month's vaca­tion last year and should stick close to the job this summer. But he hopes to be able to answer the roll call. HY passes on the word that TOM LEE and PERCE WILCOX are in the credit Dept. of the Northern Power Co. in Minneapolis. 
CORNIE PFEIFFER sums up the idea of reunion in a beautiful and forceful manner. He says so well those things that we all feel that we must print his entire letter: 
"For the past few days I have been digesting the letter that was recently sent to the fellows of the '23 class. Naturally, John, upon receiving word of this kind, you can't help but thinking of all the old familiar faces and different events that happened during those four years and how fine it would be if all the fellows of the '23 class could get together for the largest reunion we ever will have, for you know with the passing of the years respon^bilities will increase and the fellows will have less time for diversions. 
"John, you can count on me being back, and I will go further to say, that you can put me down 
EDWARD BRODERICK WILLIAM CARTER WILLIAM DEGNEN 
as bringing some other Kentucky fellow of our class back with me. No doubt you will keep me posted as to the different forms of activities that the clas» will participate in. 
"On the several occasions that I have been back to school since we graduated, I have failed to see many of the Chicago fellows and it was not until last November that I was able to see you and this-was only for a short length of time. Even the cor­respondence I had with several fellows of our class soon after graduation had dwindled until now, my only opportunity in keeping in touch with them is through some member passing through town or mak­ing a special trip for the Derby, which is still our chief attraction. 
"You asked in the letter for an expression regard­ing the reunion this June and I hope they will all signify with the word YES, so we may crowd in it few hours what we have been missing for the past five years." 
JOSEPH NYIKOS now assistant Prosecuting At­torney with office in South Bend says he will be back. 
Last month JOHN FLYNN promised to be back and also vouched for others including JOHN GLBA­SON. But JOHN GLEASON now comes to bat for himself and vouches for a few more. His lettering is interesting, especially to those of us who remem­ber the Gold Fish. Here is the letter "Yes—^I will be back in June—^Your letter was duly received by me and read carefully several times, each time it looked more attractive—especially the "Hall" idea mentioned in the eighth paragraph, 'all in one hall' 
,. 
GERVASE FROELICH FRANCIS MASTERSON ARTHUR MONACO 

FROM THE JERSEY BOYS 
of'27 
JOSEPH NULTY CARLTON REILLY JAMES O'CONNOR ROBERT SHIELDS JAMES QUINN JOSEPH WHALEN 
v^ • 

THE NOTRE DAJME ALUMNUS 
that IS a good idea. I suggest Badin Hall, the 
•weather is balmy in .Tune and heat is not necessary, and it's queer, but I remember Badin in connection with the class of '23. JOHN CHAPLA stopped in at the office yesterday and we had a great talk fest, he being of the mind also to be back in June. NELS CAALAHAN and I (you know, John, he is now the proud daddy of a younger 'Sandman') have lunch often together so I guess you can place him on that list of Homecomers also. The more I think of this thing, John, the greater appetite I have for it, and I hope that every one of the class will feel the same as I do about it and get there. 
The Alumni Office sends us a list of men whose addresses are unkno^^•n, and we have gone through the Dome of '23 and found many more men whose names are not on the class list. Some did not grad­uate but they are '23 men never the less. Will these men or their friends please send in their addresses. 
James X. Bell Anthony M. Jackson Paul T. Breen Emmet Keegan Max J. Brown Edward I. Kelly John G. Byrne Lester Kennedy Joseph M. Casey Louis Lujon Louis Chesnow Daniel Lynch Walter Condon David McGraw John Connell William N. McLaughlin George J. Dawson Carlton B. Maine Leo C. Dunlea John M. May Donald T. Fitzgibbon Leo K. Metzger James F. Fogarty Leo J. Mixon John T. Fogarty Pio Nono Montenegro Carl F. Gilsinger Pedro J. Scaron Leo C. Graf Jesse N. Torres 
Edward L. Gretchen Stephen C. Willson 
William H. Haskins Rubin C. Zetland 
Harry Hoffman Louis J. Murphy 
Edward J. Hogan Louis E. Navin 
Bruce Holmberg Joseph B. O'Brien 
George B. Stock Joseph J. Ott 
George A. Uhlmeyer Francis W. Pedrotty 
James W. Welch Jeffery V. Powers 
Elmer Holmberg Michael Seyfrit 
Wo had thought of making plans for various class activities during the reunion but our Class dinner Friday night, the Alumni dinner Saturday night, and the regular Commencement aifairs will take up a great deal of time. We believe that we will all enjoy it more just to get together around the Hall and as Cornie Pfeiffer says "crowd into a few hours what we have been missing for the past five years. What are your wishes? We would like to hear from you. 
Universal Notre Dame Night is but a few days away. This will provide an opportunity for us to get our little parties arranged to go to Commence­ment. Send us a list of those who are going with you. 
The work of being Class Secretary and the large number of very fine letters that we receive have so cluttered up our home that we are forced to move to larger quarters. Any news that you have from now on address to 1448 Albion Ave., Chicago, or here is something easier to remember. Local Display Adv. Dept. of THE CHICAGO TRIBUNE. Tribune Tower, Chicago. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
A letter from 5IERLIN ROLWING indicates that Merlin is now district manager in Phoenix and vicinity for the Federal Life Ins. Co. of Chi­cago, S12 X. 11th St., Phoenix. Merlin says the distance is too great to make the Reunion. He ran into JACK HILKERT, he states. Jack is studying law and practicing accounting with Rogers & Rittich, 522 Luhrs Bldg. 
AL LOCETWOOD went with the Johnson Motor Co., when that organization left South Bend, and is now located in 'Waukegan, III., where the put-put-put of the outboard motors keeps the Chicago commuters free from loop nostalgia. 
McCready Huston, writing in a column of the South Bend XEWS-TIMES, says these interesting things about FRAXK tVALLACE: 
The week was brightened for me by a letter from Frank TVallace, who worked his way through Xotre Dame as a reporter of athletics. Like a lot of other students, Frank used to bring me his efforts at short stories for criticism. While his stories at that time were imitative and lacking in power they had promise; and I am not sur­prised to learn that he has finally landed, placing fiction with both the Red Book and Liberty and, having broken in, reaching the place where a first class author's agent is willing to take him as a client. He worked a while for the Associated Press after graduating, then went to the Xew Tork Evening Post, and now has gone tabloid, taking a job on the Xew Tork Xews. 
I recall what a hard time I had talking Frank out of hanging around college an extra year and Qontinuing as a reporter of football. He had en­joyed traveling with the team and associating with prominent athletes and coaches and, like many other college seniors, disliked to break away and get to work. I thought that no mat­ter how attractive the prospect here, an extra year would simply mean postponing the Inevitable. The sooner he got to work at his trade the better. 
To illustrate the experience he has been get­ting, last summer he traveled with the Yankees and Giants, made the training trips, saw the big fights, and in the fall saw the principal football games as a correspondent. He sold two articles on sporting subjects to Soribner's magazine; and now has broken into fiction, all in three years out of college. 
•Wallace is a Wheeling steel mill boy, a son of working people. Probably his advancement is due to his background. Early he learned to labor and his appreciation of his later advantages is the sharper on account of the deprivations of his youth. 
There is a vast amount of satisfaction in ob­serving and recording the making good of an am­bitious reporter one has been privileed to advise. Xotre Dame men who are eager to write for the magazines could learn much from the case of Wallace. 
1924 
MARK NOLAN, city attorney for Gilbert and McKinley, two of Minnesota's thriving metropoli, has launched a camp^gn as candidate for representative in the legislature. Mark's oratorical ability and his 


COMPLIMENTS 
of 

THE GARDEN STATE BOYS 
at 

NOTRE DAME 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

JERSEY WALSH HALLERS 
"Early 20th Century Products" 
AL BRYCE JOE MANGIN EUGENE GILLIGAN 
K. G. PFEIFFER JACK RYAN 


Loyal Subjects of the "King" 
knowledge of politics and economics, plus his ex­perience, seem to make him the ideal candidate. (An accompanying photograph showed that he is also assuming legislative proportions.) The only thing hard to reconcile is the name of Nolan on a Min­nesota roster. 
TOM DONOVAN, who is now secretary of the 
N. D. Club of Chicago, is, in his spare time, prac­ticing law under the firm name of Holland & Donovan at 11 S. La Salle St., Chicago. 
JEKRT FOX, who taught chemistry In the prep department of Trinity College, Sioux City, from 1924, is to take his Ph.D. in law at Mar­quette U. 
HUBERT HERSHAM drops a welcome note in to say that he is with Spooner £ Merrill Inc., con­sulting engineer^. 111 W. Monroe St., Chicago, where ho located last August, and that he is much pleased and Interested with his position. He says he sees RED SULLIVAN and ED O'TOOLE 
frequently,  and  sends  his  best  to  the  outlying  
brethren.  
1925  

•i/ 

According to THE CATALYZER, FRANK SA­BINE is still at Rocky Ford, Colo., in the sugar refinery game, but like THE ALUMNUS, it has no further news to offer. 
JACK SCALL.\N must have been testing muf­flers for Pullman wlieels and gotten tangled up in one. 
JERRY HOLLAND has been contributing some signed criticisms of books and the theater' to the NEWS-TIMES in South Bend, and is holding down the state editor's desk in his spare time. " • 
GEORGE BISCHOFF, who has been traveling through Indiana rather regularly as state secre­tary of the Knights of Columbus, drops In fre­quently. 
Anybody from 1923 to 1927 will get interesting dope from the accompanying letter from JOHN HURLEY. 
"In Toledo ART SUDER is helping his Dad "Say it with flowers." RAY TILLMAN is also with his father and is the proud "papa" of a haby gril. BEN KESTING is with the Ohio Highways Com­mission and I believe the boss of his household is a 
BILL CERNEY and CHUCK COLLINS are down in North Carolina, at the University of N. C, Chapel Hill, this spring giving the N. C. football men a little de-hibernating. A letter from Bill says that a daughter in the Cerney family Is keeping things Interesting. Bill laments that she will miss the subway life of Corby, except as she hears rumors in the school across the way. Bill and Chuck send their .best to the '25 gang. 
baby girl. JOHN COCHRANE leads the race with a boy and a girl. JOHN and EMORY TOTH have the same office in the Home Bank BIdg. Both of them are doing well. BOB COONEY. '27, is about to plunge into the insurance game. FATHER BOB GALLAGHER is the assistant pastor of St. Teresa's parish and he holds the position of honorary presi­dent of the Toledo Alumni. KEN NYHAN. Bob's former "roomie" is practicing law along with JOHN 
318 THE NOTRE 
Frequent showings o£ Luxenberg Clothes are 
held in the cities listed below: 
Jacksonville Boston Pittsburgh 
Tampa Syracuse Washington 
New Orleans Chicago •\Vilkes-Barre 
Atlanta Bethlehem Troy 
Birmingham South Bend 
S37.50 
Write for new style booklet and dates of exhibitions. 


CL®THE§ 
37 UNION SQUARE, NEW YORK Between IGth and 17th Sts. 

CAREY, ED LYNCH. ART RYAN, JOHN COCH­RANE and EMORY TOTH. The Toledo Notre Dame men have no trouble with traffic tags. "PINKY" O'BOYLE is doing wonders with the Ohio Bell Tele­phone. FRED KEENAN. who is manager of the Waldorf and Secor Hotels, as a big help when it comes to arranging banquets and the like for the local club. AVhen we want a cab we call FRANK LOCKARD'S Red Cab Co. RAY CUNNINGHAM '25, is still selling pretty pictures for the Russell Studio of Chicago and at the present time his address is 1255 Pennsylvania, Miami Beach, Florida. Ray is going great guns, as usual. I just received a letter from BUTCH HAECKER who is with the Goodrich Tire Co. of Pittsburgh. Rumor has it that Butch is in love and it isn't a Toledo girl either. TOM HARTNETT will soon be an oil magnate and he will be leaving for Washington to straighten out the mess over there. Tom has been with the, Paragon Oil since he left school in '23. 
CHARLIE MOUCH is a married man now and he runs the Chevrolet Sales in Sandusky. A few weeks ago I had lunch with BOB ANDREWS and CHUCK MOONEY. Bob is treasurer of the Andrews-Fay Construction Co. and Chuck is finishing his law at Reser\-e. AL SOMMERS, JOE TOOLEN, BILL HURLEY and "SPIKE" M'ADAMS have, left Qpad Hall which has been their abode coming to Cleve­land and they are now at 1930 75th St. They are doing their ovm cooking. That is, they were! I saw them the first day they moved but I have an idea that they will soon be taking their meals out. Mc­Adams seems to think he will like the "home cook­
 DAME ALUMNUS 
ing" of a certain Cleveland girl. . It won't be long. While hanging around Quad Hall I happened to meet DANNY DUFFEY and DON MILLER. One by one the "Four Horsemen" have left the horses for houses. First it was Xayden, then Crowley and Don tells me that Stuhldreher will be married in June and he said he had the same idea but that he didn't know just when it would be. Enough for the Cleveland crowd. 
I expect to see HENRY BARNHART to-morrow night. Barney is still with the Marion Steam Shovel and so far he has managed to keep out of Knights of Columbus politics in the late president Harding's town. "WOOF" DWYER is the buyer in the Dwyer Bros. Furniture store in London, Ohio. "Woof" was my "big brother" appointed by Father O'Hara back in Freshman days and now I am calling on him every five weeks for an order. The "Big Brother" stuff don't get me very far though. 

Jumping over to Chicago I find that GENE SCHWARTZ is Treasurer of the Schwartz Lumber Company. CHUCK WOODS '26, holds the same po­sition in his father's lumber company in Genoa, Ohio. These fathers certainly trust their sons! BUD STILLMAN is still with the Yellow Truck Co., and he is 'moving over to Pontiac where his company has built their new plant. We will have to take him into the Toledo Club ... . Detroit notwithstanding. 
JOE NAVARRE is finishing up his law course at .A.nn Arbor and EUSTACE CULLINAN is doing the same thing out on the coast at Stanford. 
I guess that covers all the fellows I have seen 
• JOHN HANCOCK SERIES • 
Declaration of • 



- Independence 
W
E have issued an offi­cially approved fac­simile parchment copy of the famous Declaration, suitable for framing. 

You may have one of these. Free of charge, upon written application to 
INQUIRY BUREAU 
iLtFC INSURANCE COMPANY*" or SosroM, H*»«acT«u»PT» 
197 Clareiidon St., Boston, Mass. Please send me FREE facsimile of the Declaration of Independence. (I enclose 5c to cover postage.) 
Name i _ Address L 
: i 
SlXTY-FI^m YEAR OF BUSINESS 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 319 





"SKEETERS" 
OF THE 
CLASS OF '26 
HARRY AXT TOM RYAN EDDIE BURKE JIM SILVER EDDIE DUGGAN JIM WALDRON TOM FARRELL WINK WINGERTER 
EDDIE HARGAN JERRY HAYES WALT HOUGHTON JAKE PURCELL DICK PURCELL HAL ROBERTSON 
lately. Besides selling living room furniture for the 
Toledo Parlor Furniture Co. I have taken on a side 
line of selling tours to Europe. (Me and Rock)! I 
am appointing organizers at the various colleges and 
universities in my territory. I am representing the 
Franco-Belgique, The International Travel Club and 
the Students Travel Club ... . and therefore can 
take care of any of your European needs. (Ad­
vertisement.) 
Enough for this time. I will be seeing you soon! 
A letter from Ed Murphy of the Peoria JOURNAL 
says that JOHN A. NOPPENBERGER, former N. D. 
tackle, has been appointed coach of Spalding Institute 
at Peoria for next year. "Noppy" did a good job of 
coaching St. Xavier's in Cincinnati and is looked to 
as a good man for his new position. 
VINCENT "TUBBY" HARRINGTON, who is fore­closing mortgages in Sioux City still, writes in that all is fairly well in the West, in spite of his activi­ties, and threatens to kill the Editor if the letter is published. You know these Sioux. ^ JACK SCALLAN has been traveling all over the 
U. S. mentioning Omaha and Texas among others, but promises reforms. 
JIM WRAPE dropped a note from Memphis where he is practicing law in the Columbian Mutual Tower, and suggests a visit this way sometime during the Spring. 
1928 
Take a look at the page ad from the Skeeters of the Class of '26 in this issue. It speaks volumes for the activities of the '26 men, especially the New 
Jersey gang. 
RAY KEISER is the only N. D. man listed in Columbia's latest directory of students in the School of law. 
JERRY HAYES and JIMMY STACK, looking med­
ical as the devil—Stack has a moustache that ought 
to break up any Nurses Home—^were down during a 
recess between exams. 
1927 
DANIEL J. HARVEY passed the Illinois bar exam according to word received in the Law School early this month. EDWARD J. M'LAUGHLIN, 7841 Eu­clid Ave., Chicago, also passed the exam. 
From the February issue of the INDIANA LAW JOURNAL: LUTHER SWYGERT, a Michigan City attorney, has closed his law office in that city and has moved to Hammond, where he has formed a part­nership with W. L. TRAVIS. The new firm will en­gage in the general practice of law under the firm name of Travis and Swygert. 
GENE EDWARDS followed Andy Sleigh's letter from Weston, W. Va. 
CHARLEY M'DERMOTT also wrote in good news. He can't believe all the dope about the new Dining Hall. He is in the iron business with his father and says' that JIMMY JONES is on the AUentown (Pa.) paper and doing fine. He and JIM QUINN, VINCE M'NALLY and JOE BOLAND will be on hand when the baseball team plays Villa Nova and Cornell, he added. 
SHIP CARVING ART NUMERALS In Yoar Stadinm Seats By the 
HOTGRAVE PROCESS 
Write for Particulars, CURTIS & GEER 500 Adeline, Oakland, California Used by Sesqiii-Gentenmal; Calif. Memorial; Rose Bowl; L. A. Coliseum, and others. 
Local Alumni Clubs 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKBON. OHIO 
Frank Steel. '25, 543 Stratford Ave.. President. John DettUng, '21, 437 E. Buchtel Ave., Secretary. 
THE NOTRi: D.4ME (XUB OF ARKANSAS Rev. George F. X. Strassner, '14, Hope, President. Warren Baldwin, '13, 2424 Louisiana St.. Little 
Rock, Secretary. 
THF NOTRE D.AIk[E CLUB OF BUFFALO 
Jay L. Lee, '12, 1509 Liberty Bank Building, President. Fred M. Pralatowski, Dupont-Rayon Co., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CALUMET REGION 
Clarence W. Bader, '17, 650 Pierce St., Gary, Ind., President. 
F. J. Galvin. '23, First Trust BIdg., Hammond. Ind.. Secretary. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO 
Joseph J. Sullivan. '02. 160 N. La Salle St., President. Thomas C. Donovan, '24. Room 1215. 11 S. La Salle St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI 
E. C. McHugh, '09. P. O. Box 429. President. 
L. V. DuBois, o. s. '15, Fredk. Schmitt Co., Fifth and Main Sts.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND Joseph Smith, "14, 355 Dalwood Drive, President. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTR.AL OHIO Raymond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hosier Realty Bldg., Columbus, President. 
F. X. Finneran, 615 West Chapel St.. Columbus, Secretary.­
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CONNECTICUT 
VALLEY 
William J. Granfleld, '13, 31 Elm St., Springfleld. Mass., President. James A. Curry, '14, 795 Asylum Ave., Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER 
J. P. Logan. 3654 Marion St., President. Henry Schwalbe, Argonaut Hotel, Sec.-Treas. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT 
Edward J. Weeks, El. '25, 465 Merrick Ave., President. George T. Koch, '25, 120 Seward Ave., Secretary. 
NOTRE BA3IE CLUB OF DES MOINES 
John F. Hynes, '14, 617 Equitable Bldg., President Harold P. Klein, '26,1704 Forest Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUBIBIA Frederick Wm. Wile, '91, 619 Bond Bldg., 
President. Robert Riordan, '24, Care the Bengalese Brook-Jand, D. C, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE Wm. P. Breen. '77, 913 Calhoun St., President. Clifford W^ard, '22, 220 E. William St., Secretary. 



Compliments 
of the 


Keith-Orpheum Circuit 
of 

Theatres 
Rep7'ese7ited in South Bend, Indiana 
by 

The Palace Theatre The New Granada Theatre The Orpheum Theatre The Ohver Theatre 
THE 

VANDERBILT HOTEL 
NEW YORK 
Thirty-fourth Street East at Park Avenue 
ADMIRABLY situated on the Crest of Murray Hill. It is convenient to the business, shopping and theatre centers and to the Pennsylvania and New York Central Railway Terminals. 
Its clientele is made up of intelligent travellers from all parts of the World. One finds in the dining rooms excellent service and a perfect cuisine. Every bedroom is an outside room and each one has its own private bath. 
TARIFF Single room with bath Double room zvith bath $4.^o per day and up. $8.00 per day and up. 
WALTON H . MARSHALL 
Manager 
-,c?** 







