The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

CCMMENT 
Apologizing for the fogginess of the ' personally written material that goes to you, I still think you could read more carefully to our mutual advan­tage. 
On the back of the Ballots, for ex­ample, I addressed a message to all alumni—the Ballot naturally went to everyone. To 75 per cent of you I wrote asking payment of dues. To the other 25 per cent of you I ex­tended the thanks of the Association for your co-operation. 
Yet fifty Ballots have come back with notes fairly bristling to the effect that dues were paid on time. 
One Ballot said, "I haven't seen the Constitution. How can I accept it or reject it intelligently?" The Ballots were sent out on the same mailing list as the ALUMNUS, in the October and November issues of which the pro­posed Constitution was printed in full. 
Several friendly criticisms of clauses in the Constitution have come in since the Ballots ivere mailed. They were indirect and reflected other opinions that the Office had not previously heard expressed. The two printings of the complete text of the Constitu­tion were ordered for the express purpose of evincing suggestions be­fore the changes were put to a vote. 
The football season brought any number of embarrassments for alum­ni, the Office hei-e, and the Athletic Association, through the failure of alumni to understand the various restrictions which time and space have imposed upon the ticket prefer­ences. 
And there is always, of course, the deep-seated and emphasized feeling on the part of the Treasurer that no one reads the appeals for payment of dues after the flurry of faithful friends subsides in the post-Commencement hush. 
On the other hand, in case of mis­take, such as "No seats in the Stadium is bad," uncounted thousands seemed to have read it, at least the Editor's uninhibited friends. 
Please read notices from the Alum-

IN TtilJ ISSUE 
Frontispiece 98 President Defends Football, by Rev. C. L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06_ 99 Knute Rockne, Teacher, by Bro. Kilian, C.S.C, '29 101 University Theater Strikes "Gold in the Hills" 103 Glee Club Wins State Contest 108 Alumni Notre Dame Shares—No. 4, In Education 112 Editorial 113 Religious Page, by Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '13_ 116 An Intellectual Life Dawns 117 Athletics, by Joseph Petritz, '32 119 Alumni Clubs .122 The Alumni -125 
The mainizine is published monthly durini; the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of sinjile copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1. 1923. at the post cflfice at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
aiEMBER OP THE AaiERICAN ALUMNI COUNCIL MEMBER OP THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . ARJISTRONG, '25, Editor 
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., • Notre Dame, Indiana JAJIES E . ARMSTRONG, General Secretary 
ALUMNI BOARD 
REV. JOH.X A. MACNAJIARA, '97 Honorary President FRANCIS H . HAYES, '14 President CLARENCE MANION, '22 - Vice-President WALTER DUNCAN, '12 -- Treasurer JAMES E . ARJISTRONG, '25 -Secretary 
M. HARRY MILLER, '10 -Director 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 -- Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 - Director FRANK E . HERING, '98 -(ex officio) Director 
ni Office and the ALUMNUS. That will at least limit the mistakes to mine. 
And speaking of my mistakes, my attention was called to an unantici­pated inference from a paragraph in this location in the December issue. The phrase "surrender of the Asso­ciation's resources" was used in des­cribing an earlier stage of alumni progress culminating in the turning over to the University of the Old Students' Hall fund. The fund had been raised for that specific purpose and was therefore not technically a part of the resources of the Associa­tion, though everything in the way of revenue had been turned into that channel. The Editor's inference was, of course, the greater achievement of those pioneer alumni in the face of greater obstacles. An editor naturally regrets any failure to make his mean­ing clear. 
Which, in the current tenor of the voice of the people, is probably as good a way as any to begin the new yoar. 
artTafXtXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTX-lLTXTXT^^^ 



^he SVew ^ear of an Older 
THE 
New Year's 
No fears: 
Glad Chimes 
These times 
Of joy 
Employ. 
II 
What hope 
Doth ope. With liKht All hriBht, The maze 
Yet deep In sleep! 
ni 

Youns Rladness, 
No sadness. 
Doth come 
To home And friend. Doth send Brave cheer. A near And far. In war And peace; Increase. Or loss Of dross Or power. 
TV 
Bricht hour. Shall cloud. Nor shroud. Yet dun Thy sun. Thy joy. Destroy? 
V 
^\^lat cheer. Old year? What hath Thy path To show. Ere thou 

 OLD AND 
(From the Scholastic, 
Depart? \Vhat heart To ffxve. While live December's Last embers? 
VI 
Small space 
For joy. Small grace. Dear boy. Is left Me now. Bereft. As thou. Of my Swift hour: But thy Rich dower Is youth And hope: 
And Truth Shall ope Her fratc So old. Till fate Be told. And Past 
Declare 
"WTiat Past 
May dare. 
vn 
jVIy voice 
Brin^ gladness. 
Thy choice 
!May sadness; 
With thee. 
Selection 
Of glee. 
Dejection: 
Thine is 
The choosing 
Of bliss. Or losing: 
Above, 
God's blessing. 
Thy love 
Caressing; 
Beneath, 
The luring 

 THE
 Vol. 1, 1867-8) 
Of death Enduring: AVhate'er Thy station. Beware Temptation: Sick men. The healthy; Poor. then. The wealthy; 
Ne'er perish; Thy part. To hasten" The heart To chasten. The mind To brighten. Thy kind Enlighten: Soul bright With beauty. Truth, right. And duty; 
arark thy 
Ufc holy. 
vni 
Forecast. This good The Past Hath showed: Man lives All blest, God gives The best; Worst, when He does. Best then For us; Our iU. Alone, His will Undone. 
s 

 NEW 
Deep-sent Content. Not pride. Our guide: Our wealth. What health. And mind 
Refined. "What dole Of soul. Dear Heaven Has given; Our power. The dower To rule And school This mind Refined, This soul Control; This, strife Of life Shall cease; 
And peace Shall come To home And clime Sublime. 
X Ho, cheer. New Year! The bell Doth swell The knell Of old And cold. Doth chime The rhyme Of new And true; Bright Hope Doth ope Her portal Immortal; Rejoice, Her voice. Our choice. Is gladness. Dear gladness. Not sadness. Dark sadness. 




TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. X. JANUARY, 1932 No. 4 
President Defends Football and Tishting Irish 
Annual Address at St. Joseph Valley Club Football Banquet Contributes Logic and Eloquence to Mooted Questions of 1931 Season. 
(An address delivered at Notre Dame Decetnber 7 by Rev. Charles 
This has been a good football year. In spite of rain in Soldier Field and snow in the Yankee Stadium and the magical but alien climate which Southern California brought to our new stadium, it's been on the whole a great season. That excellent sports writer, Mr. John Ledden, our neigh­bor here in South Bend, said in a splendid article the other night that Notre Dame "never alibis," and we all know what he means, and what he means is true. At the same time, that word alibi is curiously and, I think, inaccurately used in the world of sports. "Alibi" means "elsewhere." In law it means the plea of having been somewhere else when the crime was committed. Pursuing this line of thought, the inference would be that losing a game is a crime, or at least a disgrace, something to be ashamed of. 
Applying this interpretation to the three games which we did not win this year, it becomes apparent how inexact the term alibi is. There was our game with Northwestern, played under utterly impossible conditions. Was it a crime or a disgrace that neither team won? The very question is ridiculous. What would have hap­pened had the game been played under other conditions, nobody knows, ex­cept high heaven and possibly Dick Hanley. But I am sure there was nothing to be ashamed of on the part of either team. 
Setting aside this tie game, South­ern California and Army defeated us by playing the same sort of magnifi­cent football by which we had several times defeated them. Now if we ad­mit it was a crime to be beaten by them, it makes us an accessory to a lot of crime this year and these past few years when we were winning. Surely we can hardly admit it is a crime or a disgrace to be beaten by Notre Dame. Yet that is what "alibi­ing" logically brings you to. Even using the term in its colloquial sense of excusing one's self the same result is reached. If other teams are not to 
alibi when you beat them, then in all common sense and common decency, you are not to alibi when they beat you. If the tributes of respect which we have always received from the fine sportsmen over whom we have won mean anything to us—and they do mean a very great deal to us—then I know I voice the sentiments of every true Notre Dame man when I say to­night, "Hats off to Southern Cali­fornia and Army." 
Every year produces its special crop of questions regarding football. This sport, it seems, is constantly "on the spot," constantly on the defensive. The public no sooner is convinced that students who play football are real students and possibly better at their books than are other designated groups of students, than the attack strikes in another quarter. Ovei-em­phasis and commercialism become the hue and cry. When these ghosts are laid, as they rather effectively have been laid, there is a new offensive started. This year the new note is the dangerousness of football to the life of the players. Four college players have received injuries that terminated fatally, and more than a score of other players on high school and "sand lot" teams have died as a result of injuries directly traceable to football. 
In itself, as an isolated fact, this constitutes, of course, a sei'ious in­dictment of the game. It is a result which even the most ardent and con­vinced believer in football must deeply deplore. If anything can be done by the Rules Committee, by officials, by coaches, by college authorities, to ren­der the possibility of serious injury more remote or to remove it altogeth­er, it becomes their bounden duty to do so. Thirty-one young lives in one year are too heavy a price for this country to pay for its football. 
On the other hand, in our view of this problem, we must stop short of sentimentalism and hysteria. Exag­gerated statement of an evil is only another evil to correct. I don't mean that we should be cold-blooded in look­
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '06) 
ing at a problem which means lost lives of young people and broken­hearted parents. But I do think we shall not do justice even to this par­ticular problem unless we view it in relation to the general question of student health and mortality. 
Our own experience at Notre Dame may serve for an illustration of what I mean. In forty years and more of intercollegiate football competition, there has never been a fatal accident to a Notre Dame player or, so far as I can learn, to any of our oppon­ents. In all this time, we have had only two deaths directly traceable to football. One of these was an acci­dent which occurred in an interhall game played by students of the pre­paratory or high school department some twenty years ago when Notre Dame had a preparatory department. The other was the case of a freshman injured in practice with the varsity. There have of course been many minor injuries. But the point is that, in any group of 3,000 students, there are al­ways injuries, minor and major; there are always injuries, minor and major, 
•there are accidents and deaths. Thus, in one year alone we have had as many students killed in automobile accidents as lost their lives through the football injuries of more than forty years. Furthermore, the rate of student mortality is likely to be lower during a regular school year than it is during vacation periods. Every year at the opening of school there is always the announcement of the death of some two or three or more students during the summer months . Youth itself is a hazard which the generation of adults must recognize. 
Looking at the matter from another side, the positive side, it seems un­questionably true that the contribu­tion which football as exercise makes to the physical well-being of those who participate in it far exceeds the toll it takes by way of serious injury and accidents. In the nature of things, no statistics are available on this point. None the less, the consensus of opinion of men who have watched this situation in the high schools and colleges of the counti-y would, without any question, I think, support this ^^ew. None of us would abandon swimming even though some swim­mers are drowned. We know, as a general rule, it is the non-swimmer who is in danger in the water. Simi­larly, in schools and colleges, those boys who participate in games build up a better resistance against the natural, intrinsic hazards of youth than the boys who do not participate in sports. 
If, as I said at the beginning, there is still something that can be done to eliminate altogether, or at least to render more remote, the likelihood of serious injury to football players, that something must be done. I am aware that a philosophic position on this question offers scant comfort to be­reaved parents. At the same time, I reiterate, a substitution of one evi\ for another is not a correction of the original e\'il, and the danger of foot­ball is likely to be exaggerated by hysterical sentimentalists. 
Finally, I should like to say a word about our title, "The Fighting Irish," a name which every year provokes the same old jokes and the same weary smiles. Sometimes it provokes a sneer which also is hoary with age. For exampli, the editor of a paper on the Pacific Coast took occasion of our defeat at the hands of Southern Cali­fornia to call attention to the differ­ence between the names appearing in the Southern California lineup and the names appearing in our. lineup and to remark in effect that the hope of our country was in the native American stock on the Pacific Coast. This writer is, of course, entitled to his opinion and to the public expres­sion of it in the press. That he rep­resents any vei-y large body of public opinion on the Coast or anywhere else, I vei-y much doubt. I doubt because I don't want to believe that any con­siderable section of America can be so un-American as this writer proves himself to be. It would probably be a waste of time to talk to him. In fact, I think the combined faculties of all our educational institutions in the United States might work on him for a century or so and not succeed in bringing his intelligence quotient up to the level of total ignorance. I am sure he could not even leam to pro­nounce the names of Lafayette, Kos­ciuszko, von Steuben, and Barry. deny him any right to pronounce the name s of Washington, Jefferson, Franklin, or to claim any moral or intellectual affinity with the founders of this Republic. Without going that far back into history, however, I can answer him in one word, a name that is set at the head of a brilliant chap­ter of contemporary American sport and American life. It is the name of 
Rockne. (Turn to Pace 103) 

THE FOOTBALL BANQUET CELEBRITIES OFF GUARD 
{Left to riiiht at the head table) Warren Brown, just before Koins front and center as toastmastcr: Art Haley and his post-season smite: 
E. J. Kelley. landlord of Soldier Field: Rev. John CavanaUBh. CS.C.: without whom an h. t. at Notre Dame is incomplete: Jimmy Crowley, with true M. S. C. application to his soup—Jimmy himself was "the nuts": Hunk Anderson, who seems to be troubled by a doubtful decision— probably an olive: Tuff Wilson. Northwestem's Haley: Rev. M. A. Mulcairc. C.S.C., ppobably breaking the tie: Frank E. Herinjr. who was and is almost everythinp a Notre Dame man can be: Hon. Harry Mackey—"Two million Philadelphians can't bo wronK": Bernard J. VoII, Club president: Rev. Charles L. O'Donncll. CS.C.—you can now call Notrt; Dame "the FichtinK Irish" on the Pacific Coast, nr any other: and Major John L. GrifTith—much less remote in spirit than in this picture. In the foresround Nordy Hoffman, all-American iruard, conducts a "tail down, heads up" attack against a fruit cup. 



KNUTE ROCKNE, THE TEACHER 
By BROTHER KILIAN, C.S.C/ B.S., 1929 
(Editor's Note: Several reports from work­ers on the ICocknc Memorial indicate that in spite of the volumes published on Knute Rockne. some smalt part of the public still identifies him only with that spectacular phase of life, football, in which he held an uncon­tested throne. For these few, and to renew old admirations amon^ his friends, the alumni, the ALUMNUS prints "this intcrcstin;; side­light on an earlier side of Knute Rockne.) 
It was my privilege to be one of Knute Kockne's pupils in general chemisti-y just a short time before his genius as a coach began to be recog­nized. Since then many a tribute was paid him by sport lovers in the world of American football, and many a time he wore the laurels of victory thi'oughout his brief but intensive career. Yet, had he chosen teaching as his life work, he would undoubtedly have made a success of that too, for Rockne was not the man to be satis­fied with mediocrity. 
His manner of entering the room was indicative of his capacity for work. Indeed few teacher's could cover as much text book ground as he and yet make one feel that the essen­tial points had been sufficiently stressed. With a bx'isk, sweeping stride he came down the corridor and through the doorway, making straight for his desk without stopping to glance at his students. No time was wasted, and class began immediately upon his reaching his position by the blackboard. Once started, there were few dull moments as he expounded the theories and laws of chemistry. He had a way of giving inflection to the names of certain substances that made their existence as real as the forward pass or the Notre Dame shift. While lecturing he always stood, never sat, and his favorite place was by his desk, in front of the blackboard, with a piece of chalk in his hand I'eady to demonstrate a problem whenever nec­essary. In his own inimitable way he "shot" a question when one least ex­pected it. I don't believe his object was merely to catch one napping, for, like most capable teachers, he never gave any indication of a malicious triumph when he received no answer, but simply repeated his question to some other member of the class. 
Vei-y seldom did he display any temper, and about the only occasions on which he gave vent to his feelings fully justified his irritation. One of my fellow-students, Larry O'Toole, had a fondness for the term 22.4 
litres. This volumetric quantity plays an important part in the solution of problems in chemistry, but Larry con­sidered it the only thing worth know­ing, and showed it by his answers. 
"The atomic weight of chlorine?— the atomic weight of chlorine?" 
Rockne repeated, with a rising inflec­tion on the last word, while his search­ing glance shot around the room until it rested on the face of Larry O'Toole. Now Lari-y wasn't the boy to remain silent and pass for an ignoramus, so, in response to the teacher's quizzical look, he gave his customary pet reply: "Oh, Prof, I guess,—22.4 litres!" Then Rockne brought down his chalk on the desk and exclaimed in despera­tion, "Aw Rats!" After a repetition of such answers, the professor saw the humor of the situation, for Larry was absolutely sincere, and on each occasion seemed to think he was giv­ing the class some rare morsel of in­formation. Indeed Mr. Rockne began to enjoy quizzing his youthful protege, and one could tell by the faint sug­gestion of a smile that he expected only a bit of nonsense in reply. -At such times he folded his arms, looked for a moment or two at the boy, shook his head, and then resumed his lec­ture. However, on one occasion Rockne's sarcasm got the better of his good nature, as we shall presently see. 
Frequently, toward the end of the hour, after covering six or eight pages in his own intensively thorough way, leaving his place by his desk, he sat in one of the front seats to the right of the students, in a sidewise position in order to command a view of the class. There he remained for a moment or two without saying anything, his elbow resting on the back of the seat, and his head partly supported by his hand. I have in mind a particular day on which Rockne was thus seated. Suddenly his arm changed position, and turning his face for a full view of the students, he asked in short. 
jerky tones: ".Any questions? Every­body understand this? O'Toole! O'Toole, what do you say?" 
"Oh, Prof, I understand—but—how^ about this 22.4 litres?" 
"22.4 litres!" Rockne repeated in amazement, and then with his custo­mary inflection he demanded, "O'Toole, do you know what mental indigestion is?—Do you?" 
"Well, that's what you're suiiering from right now, and if ever you get an acute attack, chew on a volume of "Chemical -Abstracts," retorted Rockne in a voice that had all the assurance and blandness of that of a family doctor. Nevertheless, he jumped to feet, stepped to the blackboard and gave the class and Mr. O'Toole a lengthy explanation of the signifi­cance of 22.4 litres. When he had finished he glanced at Larry, and smiled as if to say, "There yon are my man! Do you understand it now?" But O'Toole looked at a crack in the floor, and said nothing. Rockne seemed a bit repentant when he realized how eflfectively he had si­lenced his pupil, a remarkable feat indeed, but just then the bell rang for the dismissal of class, and I'm sure O'Toole was glad it did. 
Mr. Rockne's keen, alert mind as well as his clear, concise method of presenting facts were qualities which helped to make him an efficient teach­er. -And such he was. From the moment he bustled into the room until he picked up his books at the end of the hour he talked chemistry and nothing but chemistry. Once, I re­member, he paid tribute to Father Nieuwland's mastery of this science, particularly that branch called or­ganic chemistry, and then he modestly declared how scant his own knowledge was by comparison. 
To me and to those who sat before him in the class room Knute Rockne was an efficient teacher; to the nation he was a great football coach; to the bojte who. played the game under his directive genius he was an inspiration —a super-man; yet, in a school as wide as a continent and to pupils in­numerable he taught other things be­sides athletic prowess or chemistry— other things than gridiron tactics or the laws of chemical behavior, and be­cause of these his name shall outlive the dust of time. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1932 
«• llll*l 
Qn ..Q 
S^i 

(Poems from Publications tn the Campus Files) 

^o the Sphynx 
(Sdeetiotis from a Poem by Maurice Francis Egan in the '^Scholastic" of 1833) 
The old, the new I—they jostle close each other; The new is old. the old is ever new. O year, O dau(;htcr of a fairer mother. When you depart, what shall we say of you? Dear year, past year, we hold the Rood you pave us; Can any new love dim the love you left? Can any new joy from the sorrows save us?— The losses that have made us sigh, "Bereft?" 
New year, wc shiver as your cold winds chill us; New year, we wonder at your dark, calm look. 
And all past sorrows with forebodinRs fill us. Ah, you arc really sibyl's scaled hook. You are the sph>'nx that in the land of Nilus 
Stood calm and still. unsmiUnir, a^c on age. Ah, that your calm to calmness would beguile us. And leave no wish to read next year's dim page ... . 
We arc no slaves of Time, O queen of minutes. You cannot fright us with your sphynx-Iike face; Bring you the sound of storm or singing linnets, Wc will not weep or laugh at your mere grace. Then welcome, year, we neither love nor fear you; For Will is Will, and Will can conquer fate. So sang the poet; yet as wc come near you. Who docs not shiver. Bark One, at the gate? 

t^nother ^ear 

(Another phase of the talents of the Rev, J. A, Nicuicland, CS.C. from the "Scholastic" of 1899.) 
Another year has gone for aye. As a raindrop in the evening gray That falls upon the stream below^ Is lost forever with its flow \\Tiere waves of boundless ocean sway. 
Some flowers bloom no second day; But once they glow in the morning's ray: So many a heart shall never know Another year. 
Death plucks the rose-buds on his way. 
And lets the wilting blossoms stay To waste their fragrance where they grow. Us too. He fain would take, although 
The recording angel grants delay Another year. 

fflondeau 
(From the "Scholastic" of 1907, by the Very Rev. James W. Donahue, CS.C, noip Superior (General.) 
Good-bye, Old Year, how gr ^ and sere Beside the new-bom you appear; The world cries out in accents cold: "Ring in the new, ring out the old;" But I, old friend, would shed a tear. 
Your sands are run, and now I hear The New Year's Chimes peal fresh and clear And with their sound your knell is tolled— Good-bye, Old Year. 
I welcomed you in winter drear. 
'Twas half with gladness, half with fear; But rich with blessings manifold With quickening speed each glad day rolled 
TilPnow the parting's hard to bear— Good-bye, Old Year. 
Q... 
»B 

January, 193 2 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 

University Theatre Strikes ^^Gold in the Hills^^ 
Epitome of '90 Melodramas Proves Popular Vehicle for Notre Dame Players; Hold Extra Performance for Overflow Crowds. 
Doubts that may have been enter­tained as to the advisability of the University Theatre participating in the revival of the melodramatic thrill­ers of the nineties were shattered with the presentation of "Gold in the Hills, or The Dead Sister's Secret" in Washington Hall on Sunday and Mon­day night, December 13 and 14, and an extra performance on Wednesday night, December 16. 
It was a natural. Had there been a box-office, its records would have fallen. 
Written by J. Frank Davis, the play combines every hair-raiser, laugh-provoker, and heart-wringer of the sensations of a quieter era. The tragedies and thrills of those days, having given way to the hard-hearted generation, become the comedy of the modern stage. The plight of poor Nell which disturbed the countryside and the underworld of the nineties and brought out the best in Jack Dal­ton would hardly get today a para­graph from Dorothy Dix, or a stickful in the Mirror. 
Perhaps the principal wonder of the visitors was the seriousness with which the entire cast carried through the three lively acts, in the face of an audience which lent its best vocal support to the downfall of Richard Murgatroyd and the happy ending for Nell and Jack. No showboat ever rocked with more vehement participa­tion than did the foundations of the staid Washington Hall. 
Miss Theresa Chisholm, dramatic instructor at St. Mary's, took the part of the persecuted heroine with a finesse improbable in one less, or more, at home on the stage. William Walsh, a junior from Montclair, N. J., led the student cast in the audience response with his portrayal of the sleek and moustached Richard Murga­troyd who didn't do right by Nell or any of her family, willingly. John Leddy was close to a draw Avith Walsh in the charaqterization of that honest son of the soil. Jack Dalton, always there in peril and storm. To go be­yond these natural leads is to get into a maze that can be blanketed -ivith one description, excellent, and that hon­estly. The play offered numberless opportunities fo r amateurism to hamper it. That it suffered not at all from misplaying covers the caliber of the supporting cast. Barbara, the bartender, Slade, Hiram Stanley, and the little boy (played by the son of 
THE PRINCIPALS OF "GOLD IN THE HILLS" 
(Left to right) The Prolosue Reader; Barbara, who sings to her father; Lizzie, who knew it all the time; Jack Dalton, sterling son of the soil: the Child: Nell, more sinned against than sinning; Richard Murgatroyd, with a soul as black as his moustaches; Slade, his shadow, none other than Hawkshaw as those Salt Lake City attachments come oft at the clima.-c: Hiram Stanley, who kjst two daughters that way. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Jamiarij, 19-32 
THE EXECUTI\'E BOARD OF THE UNIVERSITY THEATRE 
(Left to right) Rev. Raumond Murch, C-S.C, Prof-i. Rufus Ranch, 
Bill Andres, '18), were all cast with an eye that must have sparkled keenly in the casting in the directorial head of Frank Kelly. 
The success of the melodrama, which packed Washington Hall for three nights and has brought numer­ous requests to take the play down­town and even out of town for show­ings, recalls the long and happy reign of Thespis on. the Notre Dame cam­pus. 
The editorial memory is notoriously short. This little attempt to recall a few highlights in dramatics at Notre Dame will therefore not go back be­fore 1865. 
Those were, after all, the days. The era of writing, acting, staging and seeing a play on the same campus is not modern. "The Conjuror, or The Three Heirs," presented on the occa­,sion of Father Serin's feast day in i'67, was "prepared expressly for the occasion." It had five acts, between teach of which the University Comet Band discoursed some excellent music. 
A still earlier production was the very lively and talented burlesque tragedy, "The Prince of Portage Prai­rie, or The Burning of Bertrand," wTitten by a member of the faculty, and presented by the St. Cecilian Society in December, 1865. Similar lengthy and classically styled produc­tions were frequent in those early days, written by the faculty and pre­sented by the various literary and dramatic societies, with drills, chor­uses, band and orchestras commonly interspersed. 
Frank Kclbj and Charles Phillips. 

The capacity for entertainment in 1875 was apparently greater than the rush of the twentieth century permits. The Thespians presented a Washing­ton's Birthday program which includ­ed a grand national medley by the cornet b^nd; an overture by the orchestra; song and chorus by the choral union; an epic poem; a recita­tion; another piece by the orchestra; "William Tell," in three acts with prologue; a selection by the band; "The Nervous Man and the Man of Ner\'e," a farce in two acts; closing patriotic remarks by the Vice-Presi­dent; a march for retiring. An ad­vance notice stated that "should time peiTuit, the Thespians will close the exercises with the laughable farce of "Do You Know Me Now?" Restoring editorial faith in the bounds of time and human endurance, this latter threat was not carried out. Eugene O'Neil and his family were connected with Notre Dame, and the foregoing program is strongly suggestive of the length and breadth of such of his dramas as the current, "Mourning Be­comes Electra," Refreshment hour was the only thing the Thespians missed. 
One of the most pretentious efforts in Notre Dame dramatics, and coin­cidentally the most successful, was the famous presentation of Sophocles' "Oedipus Tyrannus" in '99. The class set to work to get a fair understand­ing of the Greek text and to prepare metrical translations in English. These translations were issued in the form of a libretto in which the Greek text appeared on one page and on the. opposite was the English equivalent. 
The work was invaluable to the audi­ence in appreciating the play. On May 15 the play was presented before an audience composed of Greek scholars and friends from all over the country. The music of the choruses was com­posed by the director of the depart­ment of music. The costumes and stage settings were in perfect con­formity with the Greek theatre of old. 
With a small enrollment, and with feminine guest artists then undreamed of, there was no modesty in the selec­tion of vehicles for the Notre Dame players. From 1902 ot 1906, for e.x­ample, the stage of Washington Hall resounded with the varying characters in "Twelfth Night," "The Chimes of Normandy," "Hamlet," "The Mikado," "Richelieu," "The Toast-Master," "The Merchant of Venice," and "The Prince and the Pauper." 
In 1911, to skip a few years, "The Treasure," a three-act comedy of war correspondents, was played with out­standing success. The Seniors chose Richard Harding Davis' "The Dicta­tor," for their annual production. The cornet band between the acts was re­placed in this instance by the Uni­versity Quartet. The orchestra con­tinues. 
In 1910 and again in 1911 the Uni­versity Glee Club produced a vaude­ville program to add to the scope of stagecraft at Notre Dame. 
This tendency to get away from the annual Shakespearean tradition and some of the heavier work of earlier years was stepped upon heavily by 
January, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Prof. Charlemagne KoeWer during the years of 1913 and 1914. In 1913 the campus witnessed an excellent pre­sentation of "David Garrick." The Seniors reacted a bit in their presen­tation and chose "A Night Off." In 1914 the Seniors took the popular "Girl of the Golden West" and gave a highly creditable presentation of its rather heavy obligations. The Presi­dent's Day Play was "The Rosary," made famous by the interpretation of Father Kelly by Prof. Drury, who played the priest's role in the original stage production. The play also marked several innovations, now com­mon. The coach. Prof. Drui-y, took a heavy role, a practice adopted two years ago in "Julius Caesai-," and a young lady from South Bend sang dul'ing the last act. 
In the Dome of 1921, we read of the Thespian depression that attacked the Notre Dame stage. "The art of the theater is in a bad way at Notre Dame. Except for one performance last year of three one-act plays . . . we haven't had a dramatic perform­ance in four years." 
In 1922 the Players Club was re­vived and the advent of Prof. Daniel Sullivan turned the dramatic spot­light at Notre Dame on the rising Little Theater movement. A number of one-act plays were produced and several longer productions rehearsed in shop. Shakespeare regained a foot­hold with "The Taming of the Shrew" and a scene from "Richelieu." 
Modern drama at Notre Dame took a tremendous step ahead in 1924-25 with the advent of two of its guiding geniuses during the years that have followed—Prof. Charles Phillips and Prof. Frank Kelly. Betwaen them they have made of the University Theatre (and the co-operation of the Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, '16, cannot be omitted here) one of the most effective workshops of the drama in modern college history. 
Playwriting at Notre Dame has atti'acted national attention. Indiana's literary iield day, an annual event, has seen the triumph of several plays by Notre Dame men. The University Theatre has presented campus plays annually with outstanding success. Several recent graduates are writing successful plays for radio at the present time. Several others have been able representatives of Notre Dame in the famous Baker school at Yale. The December ALUMNUS carried an account of the praise given by a Columbia professor t3 the fore­word of a play written a year ago. 
Acting has reached substantial pro­portions. There are no Class plays to limit the source of campus talent. Some of the traditional dates are still aimed at for presentation, coming naturally and logically in the Uni­versity calendar. But there is no forcing to achieve a date. "The play's the thing." 
Alumni who saw "Journey's End," the famous war drama presented at the 1930 Commencement, know the caliber of the present players. Those who saw "The Merchant of Venice" at the last Commencement are re­assured of the Shakespearean status. Those who saw "Gold in the Hills" know tha t versatility ha s been achieved without sacrifice of quality. From the playing angle, it was prob­ably harder to produce this old melo-• drama with its now comic lines and situations than the conventional meter of the Bard of Avon. Nor could pro­fessionals have shown more stage presence in the face of the hisses and boos of a rabidly enthusiastic audi­ence. Another significant phase of the play just ended was that, while the girls were guest artists, the male leads were all student, and one of the best of them a Freshman. 
The ALUMNUS regrets that the alumni are so scattered that only a few have the privilege of seeing the renaissance of drama in old Washing­ton Hall, a site which is rapidly prov­ing inadequate for the advance of the arts it embraces. 
BIG TBI'S BOWERY BARROOM 

The minor characters of "Gold In the Hills." featurinB such familiar friends of the '90s as A Derelict, Bic Tim Slattery, Pete the Rat. Kate, Slick Steve. The Professor. Accordian Sam, Biil the Dip, One-Punch DuBan, Chuck Conners, Happy, Gashouse Sullix'an, Jerry the Greek, and those Uptown Swells the Vanderlops, 

University Publications Cover Wide Field 
Family Circle Enlightened and Lightened by Representative Group of Undergraduate Publications; 
Campus Also Source of Other Well Known Magazines. 

NOTRE DAME LAWYER 
~LdB it tkt perftftion of hmndK n 
NOVEMBER. 1930 
Dedicatory NurtUjcr 
H V l*m Cattn KnU C 
S«ocu Inust Cui A CM>tmnn.u Cannnw r >(» if. ir.|H-»< 

Notre Dame's undergraduate mag­azines desex-ve attention as representa­tive of the present status of the Notre Dame student mind. 
The old Scholastic, founded in 1867, was for years the only campus maga­zine, serving the college proper, the preparatory and minims departments 
- and St. Mary's. As the sole deposi­tary of the literary talent of the cam­pus, needless to say it excelled. Its essays and poems were really out­standing, in an age when a splendid isolation and a consequent application to a more severe curriculum prevailed at Notre Dame. Its first issue, pub­lished by the Ave Maria press, was termed the Sclwlastic Year, published weekly and devoted to the interests of the students. The second part of the title was soon dropped. It has had continuous and successful life. Dur­ing the short life of the Notre Dame Dailij, in 1922-3, the Sclwlastic be­came a monthly literary magazine, but on the passing of that experiment, the Scliolastic resumed its weekly dual interests, news and literature. 
However, the seed of intellectual dis­cord had been sown on the campus, and the literati began to scorn the hard-bitten rules of weekly deadlines. Disunion of press and expression 

finally produced Scrip, a quarterly literary publication, devoted entirely to the production of the nobler forms of writing — essays, short stories, poems, book reviews, plays, and the strange forms that enter the modem pages under various titles. The new publication made its initial appear­ance in the fall of 1929. The Scliolas­tic has since confined its activities to the news interests which have inevi­tably broadened with a community of three thousand students. Neil Hurley, Jr., River Forest, HI., a senior in Arts and Leters, is editor-in-chief of the Scholastic this year. Joseph McCabe, a senior Arts and Letters man from North Attleboro, Mass., guides the very artistic destinies of Scrip at present. He is a veteran of Volume I of the publication and a most talented and popular character (e. g. his pic­ture as the Bowery barker in the Uni­versity Theater production.) 
Ranking next to the Scholastic in the respect and admiration of the earlier and present generations of students is the Dome. Inaugurated in 1906, with the present president of the University, Rev. Charles L. O'Don­nell as its first Editor and T. Dart Walker as its leading artist, the Dome found an immediate and distinctive niche as the annual chronicle in pol­ished writing and feature photography of the year oi\ the campus. The writ­ing has not changed a great deal in the book—the Class of 1906 boasted talent somewhat difficult to excel. But the art of reproducing photographs and the physical development of the campus have combined to make these annual publications books of remark­able beauty as well as historical value. The Dame has been published every scholastic year, with the exception of 1919 when Notre Dame's participation in the World War made the difficulties and expense involved seem too great. The year-book has received very fa­vorable comment when compared with other similar publications in the col­lege field. In 1923-4 the book was turned over to the Junior Class for editing. Leslie Raddatz, Shake r Heights, Ohio, is the editor of the Dome of 1932. 
On a quick vote, the most popular magazine on the campus would un­doubtedly be the Juggler, the humor­ous monthly. Begun in 1919 by a group of students as an independent venture, the magazine found instant popular, and ultimate financial, favor. Its rapid development attracted such friendly attention that the University took it into the official publications family in 1921-2. It has always been a safety deposit box for the wit and humor of the campus. As such it has become the criterion of clean humor in college comics. Its art work, coupled with its cleanliness and orig­inality have won for it a high rank among the many publications of its kind. Robert Gorman, a senior Arts and Letters man from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, is editing this year's magazine in a style to which it, and a pleased public, have become enthusiastically accustomed. 

A number of other magazines are published by undergraduates on the campus, devoted to special interests. 
The late Dudley G. Wooten, one of the most brilliant men it has been the University's good fortune to retain on its faculty, founded a magazine for the students of law, the Notre Dame Lawyer, in 1925. Since that time it has grown in scope as well as popu­larity, until it is attracting national attention in its field, and doing an immeasurable amount of good among the students and the alumni of the Notre Dame College of Law. Edward 
NCTI2E DAME SCtiCLAXTIC 
ISG^aCWr 
^l 

Massa, Hajrward, California, a second year lawyer, is editor of the publica­tion this year. 
The Santa Maria is the official or­gan of Notre Dame Council, Knights of Columbus. It contains articles by members of the Council, the faculty, and outside contributors. Its appear­ance usually coincides with the Coun­cil initiations. The traditional make­up and contents of the magazine make its appearance one of the high­lights of the Council year. The pub­lication has a wide circulation among the alumni who retain membership in the campus Council.. They are fre­quent contributors. 
The Religious Survey, an annual publication edited by the Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '13, Prefect of Re­ligion, has been even a more promi­nent campus publication from the standpoint of not only its local effects but its national collegiate significance. In 1920-21 the University, through Father O'Hara, began a systematic study of the religious life of the stu­dents. No thought was given to the extra-campus significance of the pub­lication of these results. One thousand copies were printed. The following year, so many requests from outside came in for copies that 1,500 were printed. The second edition with its immediate circulation outside aroused so much comment and curiosity that the third edition of the Survey went to 12,000. 
Eight annual Surveys were pub­lished and then a year was missed while another report was prepared along related lines in the field of the University's religious life. The ninth Survey, covering a ten-year study of campus conditions, was published last year. This year Father O'Hara is working on a surv'ey of religious life 
^-3a-'^;^"^g­



^^^^^^^M 
tA'!:x?'"v-N V.,;­

S^^^^^^^ m^~>'f>-^.^
JS?"^;,-'.-.'*; -.--^

^^^^^^^H 
^C^>'--?"'i5v 



i^'^MSg^M 
BB^^^^^H 
^^Kos^.' •;•• '^'_ r:

pf^^^^^^^ 
%•''."'•• ' • cSl 

i^'^^^^^^^M ^^^K^v -.'.v ^^^^P -'> ^^i




^^H ^i'^^Sf 
^^HH^^ii'yM^^^^^^I 

y^H 
^•r' > '•-<-•: •'' 
Hc^^E-j^^^^l 

^^^^^H BT^i^vr:­
w-^v^ ^ 
m-'-9'''%>^'^m


^^H mS&
pi;i'':-''i'\ 

• 
WEk:'.iS-' •• :JM



^^^1 
HkSS^^^^Mn 

j^^^^l 
among alumni, a most significant study. 
The Catalyzer is a modest publica­tion issued by the Chemists' Club of the University and the Department of Chemistry. The little booklet began life as an humble mimeographed sheet several years ago but its popularity among students and alumni soon brought to it the dignity of regular printing and a special cover. It con­tains articles, from alumni,' faculty and students, of a technical nature, news of the various chemistry, scien­tific and engineering clubs on the campus, and a page of personal items of alumni. The book is published monthly, and is edited this year by J. Toussaint, a senior Chem. E. from Utica, N. Y. 
The Football Review, a remarkable edition of which has just made its an­nual appearance under the capable editorship of Joseph Petritz, a senior Arts and Letters student of Rockford, 111., (son of Frank Petritz, '03) has become an official member of the cam­pus family. The 1931 edition is a memorial to the late ICnute Rockne, whose genius conceived and sponsored the first Review. For a decade the Revieiu has been the awaited and authoritative compilation of the sea­son's records, players, honors, and other accessories accompanying the playing of Notre Dame football. 
The .4.LUMNUS, sent monthly nine months of the year to 5,500 alumni, is a product of the University press. 
The Midland, which has been called the most truly literary of contempo­rary magazines, is edited by Prof. John T. Frederick, a member of the faculty of the College of Arts and Letters. The magazine is now bi­monthly. 
Another publication finding its physical source on the campus and edited by alumni is the Ave Maria, oldest and most widely kno\vn Cath­olic monthly in America. It was founded in 1865 by Father Sorin to do honor to the Blessed Virgin. It has always been kept apart in its subject matter from the affairs of the University. In 1874, Rev. Daniel Hudson became editor of the publica­tion and continued in that post for more than 50 years, retiring last year to be succeeded by the Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06. Many articles by alumni have appeared in the maga­zine, which now goes weekly to some 40,000 Catholic homes in the four corners of the English-speaking world. 
The Midland Naturalist, a quarterly magazine of botanical interest, also has its source at the University press. For a number of years it was edited 
IK THIS ISSUE 

t*J A. \{t,rt Oucln A. PWIi,* KflBVi Kilmv HnyA-Stomn AraiULOplw WiQwa OVwMr 
by the talented Rev. J. A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., '99, but the bulk of the edi­torial work is now being handled by Prof. Theodore Just. The magazine is recognized as the authority for the botanical interests of the Middle West. 
The Annals of Our Lady of Lourdes, a religious magazine devoted to the honor of Our Blessed Lady of Lourdes, is edited at Notre Dame and published by the University press. It is a monthly. 
The University Catalogue is itself no small publication and is supple­mented annually by special bulletins of the various colleges and depart­ments. The Catalog is edited by Rev. 
J. L. Carrico, C.S.C, '03, Director of Studies. 
The Student Directory, containing the names, home addresses and cam­pus addresses, with course and year, of all students, and the faculty roster, is another publication turned out by the University press, edited by Robert Riordan, '24, Registrar. 
All in all, the University press, in its modest • quarters back of the -Ad­ministration Building, does a tremen­dous amount of printing of which the average alumnus and student are un­aware. The press has expanded by taking over some of the space for­merly occupied by the University kitchens, but is even now up to ca­pacity in its new quarters. 
There is more to Notre Dame than even our own friends realize. It is the hope of the ALUMNUS to bring out occasionally some of the many lights hidden under various bushels.' 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1932 
Notre Dame Glee Club Wins State Contest 
Feature Sponsored by Indianapolis Theater Gives N. D. Group Opportunity; 
Notre Dame's poulai- glee club, un­der the direction of Joseph J. Casa­santa, '23, won first prize in a promo­tional contest in Indianapolis on De­cember 2. The Club was awarded the decision over the mixed and male glee clubs of Purdue University and the singing organizations of Eariham, Wabash, Franklin and DePauw. 
The clubs appeared on appointed days during a week fixed bj' the Circle Theatre for the showing of "Touchdown," the picturized version of Frank Wallace's (also '23) "Sta­dium." Each Club appeared at the four daily performances on its ap­pointed day—December 2 was Notre Dame Day—and the judges selected 
Acclaimed by Capital Critics. 

the winner on the basis of perform­ance and audience appreciation. 
The $200 first prize awarded was in addition to $100 expenses which the theater gave each club to facilitate its appearance. The judges were Walter Hickman of the Indianapolis Times, Walter Whitworth of the Neivs, and Corbin Patrick of the Star. The latter was a student at Notre Dame from 1923 to 1925. 
This triumph is appreciated to its fullest, but it is only in the line along which Professor Casasanta's excellent direction of the University's singing organization must inevitably lead. The personnel of the glee club changes each year; half of this year's group are new men. Yet year after year Joe Casasanta turns out uniformly good clubs. The answer is obvious. "Another local boy makes good." 
The club has sung over the radio several times this fall, one national hook-up before th e Northwestern game. They appeared in South Bend twice, once in a charity benefit per­formance and once with the Uni­versity band at the premiere of "The Spirit of Notre Dame." Any alum­nus who has an opportunity to hear the club and misses it, misses a stimu­lating treat. 
This offers as good an opportunity as any to go a little further about this fellow Casasanta. Joe received his 
THE GLEE CLUB OF 1931-32 

An Unusual Photograph, Showing How Those Boys Do Sing. 
Jamiary, 1032 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
B. Mus. in 1923. He returned the fol­lowing Fall as assistant to Prof. J. Lewis Browne, who was directing the glee club, and to Prof. C. J. Parreant, director of the band. He acted as director of the band the following year, continuing his assistance witli the glee club and orchesti-a. In 1926-7 Joe became the Mussolini of Notre Dame music, directing the band, the glee club and the orchestra. .A.nd where the dictator may have restored the Italian lire, Joe has made the Notre Dame lyre resound to the cor­ners of the world. 
In addition to a directing genlas, the head of the department of music has to his credit joint authorship in the following Notre Dame songs: "The Hike Song," "On Down the Line," "When the Irish Backs Go Marching By," and the new "Alma Mater Song," all written in collabora­tion with other Notre Dame alumni, Vincent Fagan, '20, Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C, '06, and Eev. Charles 
L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06. Besides these original works. Professor Casa­santa has done innumerable arrange­ments of these and other songs for the various organizations he directs, and has directed the recording of phonograph records by all three or­ganizations, the appearance on the radio of the band and glee club, and the pioneer glee club presentation in sound pictui-es. 
Prof. Casasanta is now working on the compilation of a Notre Dame song book that promises to be extremely popular in satisfying the gi-owing de­mands for the Notre Dame songs. This demand is especially strong for Prof. Casasanta's martial football songs—the music of the spheres. 
JOSEPH J. CASASANTA, B. MUS. '2.3 ". . . Mtissolini of AWre Dame music" 
Notre Dame is fortunate in the pre­siding genius of its department of music. The few notes above explain a bit the earlier statement of the im­mediate cause of this article—that the victoiy of the glee club in Indianap­olis is merely in line with Prof. Casasanta's recor d of directorial achievement. 
HEATING PLANT IN USE 
One of the four boilers in the new modern $250,000 heating plant at Notre Dame was fired December 24 by Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, president of the University, in an opening cei-emony. 
Prominent Notre Dame priests and engineers in charge of the newest University project stood near. Rev. James Burns, C.S.C, provincial; Rev. Thomas Irving, C.S.C, assistant su­perior general; Eev. Matthew Walsh, C.S.C, former president of the Uni­versity; Rev. Edward Finnegan, C.S.C, pastor of Sacred Heart church on the campus; Rev. Dominic O'Mal­ley, C.S.C, superior of the Community house; L. B. Tilson, of Detroit, archi­tect and superintendent, and C C. Wilcox, of South Bend, were among those watching the ceremony. 
January 1 all four boilers will be used but the plant will not be com­pletely finished until Febmary 1, the engineers said. 
One of the finest and most thor­oughly modern in this district, the heating plant is located on the Eddy street road, north of the gymnasium, built'of Brazil brick, which also were used in the construction of the stadium. Its tall stack rises to the height of 215 feet above the ground, or 150 feet above the roof. The plant is 103 feet long and 53 feet wide. 
A tunnel 850 feet long, electrically lighted and resembling an under­ground street, connects the new boil­ers of the plant with the old heating system which will be dismantled next spring. 
All of the University buildings can be heated under ordinary circum­stances by two of the boilers and in extreme weather three must be pressed into service, leaving one for emergency. Each boiler produces on the avei-age 135 pounds of steam pressure, which, however, can easily be raised to 200 pounds. Each boiler has a capacity of 400 horsepower. All four have the capacity to burn 150 tons of coal a day, although the aver­age daily consumption of coal at Notre Dame is 75 tons. 
Thomas Hickey, of South Bend, was general contractor of the plant. Al­bert Kahn, of Detroit, was the archi­tect and engineer. 
President Defends 'Tighting 
Irish'' and Football 
(Continued from Pane 100) 

This thesis needs no further de­velopment. Notre Dame is an Ameri­can university in the full sense and the best sense of the term. Football as we know it is truly an American game. These boys who play it here and on the Coast and on the Atlantic seaboard, whatever their names may be, are Americans. Notre Dame up­holds no shibboleth, no superstition, no delusion of native American stock. Notre Dame could never be guilty of the ci-uelty and injustice of discrim­inating against an American citizen because his parents were not bom un­der the Stars and Stripes. Place of birth is an accident. These people de­liberately chose this country because they believed this country carried into practice the principles upon which it is founded. The thinking American must be delighted that the second and third generations of immigrant par­ents are finding their way into the colleges and universities of the land. It is a proof of the reality of Ameri­can opportunity and a vindication of the soundness of American life. Notre Dame is proud of its fighting Irish who are not Irish at all, except pos­sibly in this sense, if some particular significance must be attached to the term, that, as the Ii-ish had in other days to fight for a footing in this country against the narrowness and the prejudice of the self-styled Ameri­can stock, these boys today, be they of Northern or Southern extraction, will fight, too, and what they will fight for is this,—that a vital prin­ciple of democratic civilization may not perish, drowned in the ink pots of provincial journalism. 
Mullen, '30, Popular Artist 

Cyril Mullen, Notre Dame '30, has made a new record in the way of ar­tistic achievement recently in the pro­duction of the book "Devil's Ditties," by Jean Thomas, for which Mr. Mul­len made wood-cut drawings picturing the life of Kentucky mountaineers with which the book deals. 
The Thomas book, a volume of Ken­tucky folk tales and folk songs with accompanying music, is already hailed as an important contribution to Amer­ican folk lore by such distinguished writers as Irvin Cobb, Ida M. Tarbell, Lucy Furman, Dorothy Jordan and John T.' Frederick. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Jannary, 1932 
DOAN DEFENDS NOTRE DAME IN N. Y. COLUMN 
BOOKS 
Michaeleen, by Rev. P. J. Carroll, C.S.C., '11 (The Ave Maria Press. $1.50). 
Last summer, th e sketches by Father Carroll which appeared in the Ave Maria, centering about the little Ii'ish lad, Patch, were published in book form. So popular were sketches and book that Father Carroll pub­lished a second series of sketches told by the same lovable lad but centering about Michaeleen, a boy of Ireland, as opposite in character to Patch as two boys may well be, yet compan­ions in their very contrasts, .-^gain those who know, and those added thousands who love, the abundant material of Ireland and the facility of expression so outstanding in Father Carroll's use of it, demanded the compilation of the Michaeleen sketches. It has been done. 
A lonely little boy of wealthy Irish parents, Michaeleen's intense patriot­ism, his brilliant mind, his crippled body, enable Father Carroll to bring out the poetry, the patriotism, the religion and the philosophy of Ire­land in this new book in a manner not subordinated to hot bread and jam as was the case with Patch. 
Yet, told by Patch, the story is not without those essential elements of humor and human appetites. The supplementary qualities of the two characters make the stories even mor e convincingly comprehensive than were the original stories of the Crags. 
While I was reading these seem­ingly simple little sketches, so clean and refreshing by contrast with most modem reading, it is true that there seemed to be a responsive throb in blood given to me by the Dolans and the CroarMns. But such was the enjoyment of the cannier heritage from the Armstrongs that I would not hesitate to predict enjoyment of the little volume for the Stuhldrehers, the Castellinis, the Roxas, or the Eders. J. E. A. 
tectural problem assigned during the scholastic year." 
The second, the Gertrude S. Sollitt Prize shall be awarded "each year to a regularly enrolled student of the Architectural School of the University of Notre Dame for the best work sub­mitted as a solution to a special structural problem assigned during the scholastic year." 

The first awards will be at Com­mencement, 1932. 
A recent exchange between colum­nist Paul Gallico of the New York Neivs and his readers elicits the fol­lowing from the column: 
The best letter, a corking piece of WTiting and reasoning, came from Franklyn E. Doan, Notre Dame '29. It is too long to print in entirety, but here are some quotes. "Notre Dame, by reason of her phenomenal success, has more alumni-by-adoption than the average college and is proportionately disgusted with them. But it is only natural that such a tj'pe should exist. Everybody was for Napoleon until 
•Wellington put him on the spot. There ai'e always camp-followers, especially in the winner's camp. . . . Abie the Bronx tailor and Casimir, the Hamm­tramck latheman, have to have a song 
Special to the "Alumnus" 
As was predicted by the ALU5I­NUS last March, Thomas Francis and Anne McMurray McMahon, a couple of Corning Frenchmen, have origi­nated Thomas James McMahon, as­sisted by JOE HEIMANN, '21, at St. John's Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio, on November 24, 1931. Joe made no pi-omises to Mickey, but at least (so they say) the child has its father's large feet. Also, and get this, the young McMahon will be started on what will undoubtedly be his ne­farious career by none other than, you won't believe it, PAT CANNY. Provided, of course, that Pat can learn the Apostle's Creed between now and December 20th. So with Heimann, Doctor to you. Canny, James to you, and Mickey, who doesn't really matter, it was quite a Noti-e Dame affair. The McMahons invite every one to stop at Cleveland to view the offspring and if you can make the christening party, so much the better. All donations (for the party) gi-ate­fully imbibed by Belting, Kraker, But­ler et al. 
(N. B. The above item was not too late to classify. Rather, it arrived early and was classified in the Editor's efficient files, and so forgotten until the regular section was off the press. So also with the following announce­ment:) 

John Joseph Eickord arrived Nov. 25, in time for the JOHN WHEELEE EICKOEDS of Sioux City to add an item to their Thanksgiving. Rick is still in the meat industry at last re­ports, so the absence of the baby's weight was just as well, as papa's thumb would have caused the Births department a mathematical complica­tion too strenuous for its holiday wel­fare. 
to sing in their neighborhood speak­
easy. Being human and emotional 
along with it, Abie and Casimir will .climb on the winner's bandwagon. 'God Save the King,' was a gi-eat song until Mr. Washington scored with his shock troops. . . . Now a word about the Notre Dame system. For the past 20 years this country has gone hay­wire over systems, efficiency and method. They all worked for a while. Then the wolves of Wall Street got a bad case of mental rot and the car­rion came up in the form of our cur­rent commercial stench. But all these swell systems took one hell of a lick­ing, Paul—the Federal reserve, the tarrif system, etc., ad nauseam. The only system that seems not to have been attacked by the depression is Eock's. 
International Relations Club 
The second meeting of the newly-formed International Eelations club was held last Wednesday, December 2, in the journalism room of the library. 
At this meeting the election of officers was held and the following men were elected: Tighe Woods, presi­dent; Francis Cawley, vice-president; Charles Hitzelberger, secretary; and Paul J. Hallinan, treasurer. With the exception of Cawley, who is a junior, all the officers-elect are members of the senior class. 

After the election, there followed a discussion of several topics of inter­national interest centering mainly, however, about the present Chinese-Japanese situation. 
Professor Menge, faculty ad\'isor of the club, was" also present at the meeting. 
Prizes Established 
The President of the University has announced the addition of the follow­ing prize awards: 
Two money prizes of fifty ($50.00) dollars each have been established at Notre Dame by the Ralph Sollitt & Sons Construction Company, of Chi­cago and South Bend, to be known respectively as the Ralph Thomas Sollitt Prize and the Gertrude S. Sol­litt Prize. The University will re­ceive a fund of two thousand (§2,000) dollars to be set aside for this purpose. 
The Ralph Thomas Sollitt Prize shall be awarded "each year to regu­larly enrolled student of the Archi­tectural School of the University of Notre Dame for the best design sub­mitted as a solution to a special archi­

January, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
The Old 
Engineering 
Building 
Demolished 

I wandered today by the Dorr Road, Jerry, Where once the barnyard sprung. And I dreamed of the days that are gone, Jerry, When you and I were young. The pig pens are gone from the road, Jeri-y, The First Hole bordering it instead. No corn shocks dot the old hill, Jei'ry, A par 4 hole is straight ahead. 
The old bam is gone with the rest, Jerry, Where once tlie hor'ses used to gi-aze. The new Dining Hall—all the best, Jerry, 
Now meets the admiring stranger's gaze. No smell of the silo is left, Jerry, Nor stronger aroma of the stalls. They know not of what they're bereft, Jerry, Who live in Alumni and Dillon Halls. The old Engineering shops, too, Jerry, Have finally yielded to the new. Even Prof. BenitE has changed, Jeri-y, And, in his new quarters, won't chew. And while it may not seem just right, Jen-y, That no X's mark each hallowed spot. The Plaza's a most pleasant sight, Jerry, You'll agree the old landmarks were not. 
GRID MONOGRAMS AWARDED 
Recommendations for major foot­Kozak, is getting his first letter. His Left tackles—Culver, Krause. ball monograms were made December elegibility, however, is completed. He Centers — Captain Yarr, Gorman, seventh by the Athletic association. competed for two years at Marshall Alexander. Thirty-four men were named in the college. Eight guards — Hoffman, Pierce. group that included thirty players and Nine other men, Kosky, Host, Har­Pivamik. three senior managers. ris, Greeney, Pierce, Kurth, Mahoney, Eight tackles—Kurth, Kozak. 
Included in the group of letter-Jaskwhich, and Koken, received mon­Right ends—Mahony, Devore. winners were seven men who have ograms last year and have one more Quai'terbacks—Jaskwhich, Murphy, concluded their playing careers. Cap­year of eligibility. Vejar. tain Tom Yarr, Marchmont Schwartz, The remaining fifteen men receiv­Left halfbacks — Schwartz, Koken, and Al Culver are the only men who ing awards include fourteen sopho­Laborne. gained their third grid monogi-ams. mores and one player who saw a Eight halfbacks—Sheeketski, Bran-
Others who will be lost to next little service last season. cheau, Milheim, Cronin. year's team are Nordy Hoffman, Carl The men recommended for the Fullback — Melinkovich, Banas, Cronin, Bernie Leahy, and George awards: Leahy, Leonard. Kozak. Three of this group are re­Left ends—Kosky, Host. Senior Manager—John Grams; As­ceiving a monogram in football, for Left guards — Harriss, Greeney, sociate managers; Joseph McKean, the second time, while the fourth, Wunsch. Charles Weiss. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS Januaru, 1932 
B" "0 
Alumni Notre Dame Shares With The World 
No. 4.—In Educational Work. 
0.,,. ..Q 
J^ev. Charles C. Miltner^ C. S. C. 
is the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame. Besides conducting the duties of this important post in the largest college of the U^iiversitij, Father Miltner is very prominent in the field of Catholic Phihsophy and th-e University's representative in a nuinber of philosophical societies. He received his Ph.B. at Notre Dame in 1911. He went to Europe and received his Ph.D. from the Gregorian University in 1915. Returning from Europe he studied in Canada and took an S. T. D. at Laval University, Quebec, in 1917. He has been at Notre Dame since 191S, acting as Dean since 192i. 
Rev. Fra?icis J. TVenninger, C. S. C. 
Dean of the College of Science and head of the Department of Biology, has established a national reputation for Notre Dame's work in Science shared by fexo colleges. Father Wenninger received his Litt.B. at Notre Dame loith Father Miltner. He received an S.T.B. from Catholic University in 1916 and an MS. from Notre Dame in 1917. In 1926 Father Wenninger secured a leave of absence and in the following year and a half studied at the University of Vienna, receiving a Ph.D. at the end of that time, maxima cum laude, a feat that few students there had ever achieved. Father Weiv­ninger was made Dean in 1924. 
Rev. Thomas Steiner^ C.S.C. 
Dean of the College of Engineering, combines the rare talents of a man 
who spent a number of successful years in tlie profession of engineering, 
(joining the Congregation nineteen years after receiving his C.E. at Notre Dame in 1899), with the virtues of members of the Order. In addition to teaching and conducting the business of the rapidly developing College of Engineering, Father Steiner is the representative of the Congregation in the construction work on the campus, a man-sized job in itself for the last feiv years. Nor is he ever too tired or occupied to help in the arduous duties of the confessional, benedictions, Way of the Cross, and other re­ligious exercises for the students. Father Steiner succeeded Dean Martin McCue in 1928. 
(The ALUMNUS acknowledges that the above setting apart of alumni would ordinarily suffer from the uniformits' of location, religious afBIia­tion. and nominal leadership. But the three here choseii'would stand on their individual merits barring these mutual marks, if they were mixed with a great competitive field. The things they have in common are coincidental to unusual brilliance and achievement.) 
January, 1932 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
@" a 
EDITORIAL 
HAPPY NEW YEAR! 
A rather trite title. Somewhat like "God," "Peace" or "Friendship." 
But the ALUMNUS occasionally prefers to leave the modern, turbulent stream and wander back through these quieter, deeper roots. 
Three hundred and sixty-five days have escaped those of us who read these lines. Three hundred and sixty-five precious beads in the rosary of years have slipped from our fingers. Most of us, as in our daily telling, have not been too devout in our application. 
Three hundred and sixty-five good intentions have been forgotten. Some ambition has suffered three hundred and sixty-five postponements. 
That is important in this scheme of life. If you have a piece of pottery or a painting that is artistic and can never be replaced, you prize it highly. The world sets a tremendous value on such works. 
Days are of God's own making. They are treasures entrusted to us. Their price should be beyond mortal computing. Yet how easily we spend them, often how foolishly. 
These rather foreign-sounding phrases (in this maga­zine) seep through the editorial review of the personal year in relation to the affairs of the Association. 
Much that the Editor had hoped to accomplish is not yet accomplished. This issue marks the sixth year of effort. Things have been done, it is true. That is why the Editor is beginning the seventh. But the proportion of accomplishment to hope is fractional. 
Some of the fault could be hit if the keys on this type­writer backfired. 
Another portion of blame can be placed on the time necessarily consumed in any largo development. The Association is a development of the indi\'idual alumnus, primarily. Following comes the development of the society, with the technical rules of government, policies, and associated problems. Our individual members, taken in the average, are young men. Development is far from culmination. It follows that the society suffers in pro­portion. 
Policies cannot take concrete form until the ends they are to serve are clarified. 
The new Constitution is the manifestation of the in­adequacy of legislation to govern constantly changing subjects. All that is hoped of it is that it will permit the maximum benefits to accrue in whatever period of time its articles chance to serve. 
Now, a new year is here. 

Assuming something that will not prove true for all of us, we are offered another three hundred and sixty-five days. It should be no idle resolution that we will treat these new gifts differently, treat them as we would treat a Ming vase, a Rembrandt, or a Byron manuscript. 
The ALUMNUS believes that if life and the days that make it up receive the consideration that their real significance merits for them, the things that the Associa­tion is trying to do will meet with a great deal more support. 
•iiittiiiiitiiii 
..Q 

The Editor has the theory that a lot more is going to be done in 1932 than is marked on the desk calendar in 1931, and is prepared to act accordingly. If you'll just co-operate as opportunity arises, we'll probably all come much closer to a happy new year. 
<> 

OUR UNDERGRADUATES 
While the college world trembles with its sundry out­breaks of undergrraduate liberalism vs. the administration, the alumni vs. the undergraduate, and other vs.'s too num­erous to mention in which the present campus generations are unit factors, the ALUMNUS wants to call the atten­tion of the former students of Notre Dame to the com­parative calm that rests on this seat of learning for 3,000 red-blooded males. 
It is true that a local bus station had a close call from a thorough overhauling in the pre-Christmas rush for home; that things appear in the publications that would have turned Scallan's hair gi'ay overnight in the halcyon days of '25; that iron hats and SAvallow-tails are flaunted ' on slight provocation; that only sixty-two of the "new guard" listened to the gi-id-graph of the Army game; and other indictments of an earlier-day jury. 
But—those are mild breaches of arbitrary etiquette. 
The Juggler, Notre Dame's humorous monthly maga­zine, stands out in the national field as the champion of clean humor, while several of its contemporaries are under suspension. Scrip, the literai-y outlet of the under­graduate, finds recognition in high places on its literary merist, without resort to morbidity or obsecenity. 
Scholastic requirements have been raised in the last few years to standards above the average, with no per­ceptible sacrifice of student ability or effort. Athletic prowess has continued its spectacular record in all branches of sport, with athletes growing more and more adept in the other arts of the modern campus. ' 
The drama is gaining in interest and in finesse (see feature story in this issue). 
Spii-itually, Notre Dame stands out even among the Catholic colleges. The work of Eev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, '13, who conducts a page in the ALUMNUS, has commanded international attention. A Keligious Survey of alumni, a unique achievement of Father O'Hara's, will be one of the most significant publications of the new year. 
Notre Dame has, it is true, lost much of "the good old days." Some of it, in the new era, is well lost. Some other phases of those earlier times, "when everyone knew everyone else", could have, from sentiment, been well re­tained. 
But Notre Dame enters the year 1932 with a rounded-out equipment and personnel—buildings, students, faculty and alumni—prepared as well as any institution in America for the vicissitudes of the period. 
Certainly the alumni wish the University and the students a Happy New Year. 
The Ghost of Washington Hall 
»»»»»> 

New Years Revives Tales of Famous Manifestations in Campus Building,­Mystery of Pfienomena Never Solved 
The Dome of 1926 carried this ex­cellent account of one of the great mysteries of the modern campus, brought to mind with the changing of another year. 
"It was not long after the death of the immortal George Gipp that the series of inexplicable events occurred which gave rise to the tale of the Ghost of Washington Hall. Many stories of the visitation of the spirit are told; some persons closely con­nected with events of that time ex­press themselves as skeptical; never­theless the story has been passed down from student to student during the last half-decade and has gained steadily, both in credibility and in imaginative ramifications. It is sig­nificant that the n:en who heard or saw the ghost believe to this day that spirit it was. 
"On New Year's Eve, 1920, shortly after the death of George Gipp had shocked and saddened the entire cam­pus, Harry Stevenson*, who lived in Cadillac Hall at the time, was visit­ing friends in Washington Hall. -A.t midnight he left the room, which was on the third floor of the hall, and de­scended to the second floor, intending to return to his room. As he was about to descend the final flight of stairs, the notes of a bugle, master­fully played, floated through the hall, seeming to come through the corridor at the foot of the stairs. The music was accompanied by a weird howling. So startling were the sounds that Stevenson collapsed in hysterics, and was found unconscious by his friends who came in answer to his cries. Such was the first appearance of the famed Washington Hall ghost. Little credence was given Stevenson's story at the time, but the manifestations were encountered by other men short­ly after, consisting each time of the beautifully modulated notes of a bugle, accompanied by the weird howling. Up to this time, no one had seen the ghost, nor felt it. So per­
sistent, however, was the spirit in appearing that several students of Brownson Hall determined to ferret out the secret. Led by Ward "Doc" Connell, these students camped in Washington Hall one night, taking turns at watching and listening. They were rewarded by hearing the usual noises, and according to their own story, by being thrown from bed by invisible hands. After the experience of these men no further attempts to lay the ghosts were made. The man­ifestations continued for nearly a month. 
"To one man only was it given to see the ghost of Washington Hall. At the time of the ghost's almost nightly visits to the music hall, Pio Montenegro**, '22, of the Philippines, lived in Science Hall, his window overlooking the entrance to Washing­ton Hall. On several occasions, ac­cording to his account, upon glancing from his window at night, he saw a stalwart figure mounted upon a beau­tiful white charger galloping up the steps of the hall and through the entrance. He insisted that the figure which he had seen upon the white horse was that of George Gipp. 
"The last appearance of the spirit which had caused such a furore upon the campus was heard by Brother Maurilius***, who lived in Washing­ton Hall at the time. He tells of be­ing awakened from sleep during the night by the notes of a bugle, ac­companied by heavy thumps like the sound of a heavy wardrobe falling to the floor. It was three o'clock in the morning when this occurred. Brother Maurilius dressed and made the rounds of the hall, inspecting every­thing thoroughly, but could find no evidence of anything unusual. After this occurrence, the ghost was never again heard. 
"Such is the story of the ghost of Washington Hall, as gleaned from conversations with men who came in 
contact with it at one time or an­other during its periodical appear­ance. Many persons profess to be­lieve that the entire affair was the. product of the efforts of some prac­tical joker, while others argue that if such were the case, the joke would long ago have come to light, along with the jokers. Such an accomplish­ment,'say the defenders of the ghost, would have been too good to keep. Living in the hall at the time of the ghostly visitations were John Man­gan, Joseph Casasanta****, Jose Co­rona, Frank Kolars, John Buckley and Brother Maurilius, and none of these men have been able to throw any light upon the occurrences which have been related. This much they agree upon: if the appearance of the ghost was arranged by practical jokers, one of them must have been a musician of the finest ability, for the notes of the ghostly bugle were always perfectly muted and beauti­fully modulated. 
"Whatever the truth concerning the origin of the ghostly visitations may be, the fact remains that the ghost of Washington Hall has be­come the character about which many fanciful tales have been woven during the time-honored 'chin-fests,' and the tale of the spirit of Gipp will go down to student posterity as lon^ as one stone of Notre Dame remains upon another." 
'Stevenson himself became the Chicafco poet known as the Phantom Lover. 
**Pio is generally reported to have become so politically embroiled in the Philippines that he lost his ears. 
•••Brother Maurilius is now rector of Car­roll. Few ghosts have Iwthercd the present resident of Washington Hall, Brother Cyprian. 
••••The present music master, about whom more appears in this issue. Joe was an excel­lent comet player as a student, playing, if the Editor's memory ser\*es, that beautifully modu­lated bufde back-stage in the glee dub's "Rouge Bouquet." 

January, 1932 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Ray Miller '14, Candidate For Cleveland Mayor 
News comes from Cleveland that Ray T. Miller, LL.B. '14, is the Dem­ocratic candidate for mayor of Cleve­land in the forthcoming January pri­maries, preceding a special election in February. 
Ray is the second of the Five Miller Brothers, famous in the foot­ball and legal history of Notre Dame. Harry "Red" Miller, '09, was the first. He starred on the football team, memorably in the first defeat of and. the last game with Michigan, and his football fame has been per­petuated in J. P. McEvoy's series "The Potters." 
Since Harry and Ray have been Walter, '20, and Don and Jerry, '25. All of them were football players, although Harry and Don, a member of the Four Horsemen, stood out. That football is not a permanently deadening agency for the mind is evidenced in the success of these boys. Harry is general counsel for the Graselli Chemical Co., Cleveland. Ray is, of course, the present prose­cutor there, the most popular in the city's history. Walter is counsel for the Otis Co., Chicago. Jerry is prac­ticing law in Cleveland and not long since became the father of twin half­backs. Don divides his time between the practice of law and coaching at Ohio State. 
The following feature article in the Cleveland Plain-Dealer, by Philip Porter some months back, gives a comprehensive account of the color­ful career of the present mayoralty candidate: 
"A poor day it is now when Ray Miller is not on Page One. City Edi­tors go home slumped down in taxi­cabs on such days, unable to ride the street cars, completely sick at heart. Spendid reason, too, for he is the "prosecutingist" prosecutor that this town has seen for many a year; in fact for about 25 years. Elected with the expectation that he would pro­duce action in the prosecutor's office, he has done fairly well in approxi­mately four months. To date, there have been four city councilmen in­dicted; one convicted, one pleaded guilty. Two murderers have been sentenced to the electric chair. The personnel is the finest in the prose­cutor's office since the office was established. Not bad, not bad. 
"Ray emerged from the family hearth and high school at Defiance, Ohio, in 1910, and inevitably matricu­lated at Notre Dame. He did his stretch on the football team, as was to be expected, playing backfield and end, but did not shake the world with his playing. Nature and the law of compensation held back a little on him then, preferring to drench him with the spotlight after he became county prosecutor. So, after being just another fellow in a football suit, he was graduated just in time to save the country from the Mexicans in the little row along the border in 1916.. He enlisted as a buck private and had more fun than in a whole year which he later spent in France. 
"The border trouble over, Ray de­cided to do a little prospectin' out west. 'Thar's gold in them hills,' thought he, even if he didn't say so. But thar wasn't. It wouldn't pan out, so he returned to Cleveland and inevitably began to prep for the bar exam. JBut he was interrupted by the wholesale shooting over in Eu­rope, and almost before he knew it, found himself in and out of an offi­cers' training camp, with a captain's commission. 
"Ray apparently has always been a great guy for trouble. When he ar­rived at the front, he was in com­mand of Company B, 135th Machine Gun Battalion. For some unknown reason, the enemy always desired to exterminate machine gunners first; doubtless a quaint European custom. The machine gunner lived an active life and a short one. He and his fellow 'suicide squad' members are treated to a first course of high ex­plosive and shrapnel. They next welcome delegation after delegation of grenade throwers, riflemen, bay­oneteers and ambassadors plenipo­tentiary. After that they have a cigaret and a little soup, get some more ammunition and start all over again. 
" 'Why the Sam Hill did you select the machine gun racket?' I inquired, beginning to doubt his sanity, for he assured me the choice was volun­tary. 
" 'Well, it was a combination of in­fantry and artillery. The offensive tactics were unusual. We were al­ways taught that we were helpless if the gun stuck, so the gun had to be kept firing,' said he, with interest. 'I never had a better time in my life. We were always billeted in a chateau, where we lived on the fat of the land. I never would have left the army, had not all my pals started coming back to America to make a living.' 
Having led machine gunners through the bloody Argonne forest, and across the salient at St. Mihiel, and actually liked it, Miller naturally feels no qualm about prosecuting gangsters and racketeers. Political pressure through indirect methods fails to move him. He is used to quick, decisive action. He goes .straight to the point of things. He has a clear eye, a firm chin and square jaw. He speaks crisply. 
"Expert dopesters, say he has the most brilliant political future of any man in Cleveland, and I would be the last one to contradict them. If he does rise to the heights there will be one shade who has crossed the black waters of the River Styx, one ancient mariner whose barque will never return to port, who will be happy—the late Edmund H. Moore, (LL.I). '25), of Youngstown and Cleveland, the Democratic master who nominated 'Jim' Cox for the presidency in 1920, who led the fight against the Ku Klux Klan in the death struggle at Madison Square Garden in 1924. Eay was Ed Moore's protege. 
"Moore, a brilliant attorney and philosopher, a man whose word was better than a surety bond, took the young machine gun captain, fresh from the shell holes and the chateaux, into his office as junior partner. Moore, a widower, found companion­ship with Miller, then a bachelor. He regarded him almost as a son, and when Moore died of a sudden heart attack four years ago, he willed to Ray his collection of encyclopedias, law books, histories and Shake­speareana that were so dear to his heart. 
"He was the most remarkable per­sonality I have ever known," said Ray. "He could recite speeches of British and American statesmen with as much ease as most of us read the baseball scores. He could quote Shakespeare by the yard. He had a most mellow philosophy of life and politics." 
"Ray Miller's fame as county pros­ecutor has not come undeservedly. He became the Cleveland Bar Asso­ciation's choice in 1928 after it had become apparent that the battle for the prosecntorship was going to write the most important Cleveland history in many a year. Free of promises to political organizations (to the credit of W. B. Gongwer, Democratic coun­ty chairman, be it said that he made no attempt to dictate or suggest Miller's assistants), possessing the confidence of the community. Miller showed soon that he knew what it was all about. Prevented by- law from receiving more than 55,500 a year, he persuaded excellent lawyers to come into the office by offering them wages of $8,000 and 59,000 a year, and talked the common pleas judges into granting him the money to engage this competent staff. The wisdom of surrounding himself with capable assistants has been seen in the conduct of the investigations of city hall scandals during the winter. 
"Ray Miller is 37. He is now the father of a daughter. Rose Anne, 3, and a son, Ray, Jr., about 1%. The family lives on Cedar Road, Cleve­land Heights." 
Religious Page John R O'Hara, C.S.C 
Prefccl of Religion 

tA,. 
The Church Unity Octave 
Work on the Religious Sur\-ey of the Alumni, resumed during the holi­days, has filled the comers of our brain with statistics — mostly on mixed marriage and birth rates. Most of this matter will have to wait for publication in the Sun-ey Report, which is now in the hands of the prin­ter, but the approach of the Church Unity Octave suggests that some­thing be done about the mixed mar­riage problem. 
The supplementary Survey brought replies from 140 married alumni who had courted non-Catholics and had married the girls they courted. Of this number, 68 reported conversions before marriage, and 23 conversions after marriage, while in 49 cases the wives are still non-Catholics. There were, therefore, 68 Catholic mar­riages, approximately one-third of which resulteH in the conversion ''f the non-Catholic wife. Classification according to the length of time since the marriage took place, these cases fall into the following groups: 
Converts  Converts  
before  after  Mixed  
marriaKe  marriage  marriage  
20 years  
or  more  6  11  7  
15-19  7  •1  4  
11-15  13  2  3  
6-10  13  1  10  
4-5  13  4  9  
1-3  16  1  16  

It might be remarked in passing that the birth rate of these three groups (based on a study only of those who have been married ten years or more) is as follows: Con­verts after marriage, 3.3; converts before marriage, 2.5; mixed mar­riage, 1.9. The highest birth rate re­ported for any group analyzed in the Survey was 3.7, which was indicated by the alumni married 20 or more years whose wives had become Catho­lics since marriage. 
The approach of the Church Unity Octave suggests an intensification of prayer for the conversion of non­
(J anuary 18-25) 
Catholics and of lapsed Catholics. This Octave, which has in recent years become a prayer of the Uni­versal Church, was first suggested by Father Paul, Founder and Minister General of the Friars of the Atone­ment, at Graymoor, N. Y. While still Anglicans, he and his little commun­ity began this Octave, which extends from the feast of St. Peter's Chair at Rome to the feast of the Conversion of St. Paul (Jan. 18-25); they con­tinued it after their conversion to Rome; it grew in popularity in this country until it finally gained the sanction of the Holy See as a uni­versal devotion. 
In recent years it has been popu­larized at Notre Dame, largely through the reports of the success it has had in making converts. In 1923 we inaugurated the practice of plac­ing on the altar the names of those for whom we desired the grace of faith; by June of that year, five stu-^ dents reported the conversion of one or more of those whose names they had submitted. Hundreds of names are now handed in each year, and new conversions are reported each time. This year a new feature will be add­ed: eight Masses will be said during the Octave for those whose names are handed in—and the privilege of submitting lists belongs, of course, to the alumni as much as lo the stu­dents. (The names are always en­closed in sealed envelopes, marked C. U. 0.) 
Daily Mass and Holy Communion form part of the Octave in student practice; if these are impossible to alumni, they may at least say the Oc­tave prayer, which will be forwarded to all who ask for it. 
Feast of the Holy Family 
Another January devotion which should commend itself to the married alumni is the recently inaugurated feast of the Holy Family, which oc­curs on the Sunday within the Octave of the Epiphany (January 10 this year.) In several recent pronounce­ments the Holy Father has called our attention to the urgent need of pre­serving family life if society is to be saved from itself. Family prayer, which once formed part of the daily life of all devout Catholics (and of many non-Catholics as well), has all but disappeared. Its restoration will put something solidly spiritual into the lives of the children of this gen­eration, and will offset many of their worst temptations. 
We venture the suggestion that the head of the family make his plans for a "family Communion" on the feast of the Holy Family, and take stock at that time of the spiritual resources of the little group God has entrusted to his care. It will not fail to bring a blessing on this year—a year which threatens many new troubles and dan­gers. 
Local Religious News 
The number of Holy Communions received by the students this fall was 134,709—just 220 less than the total for last fall, with a student body of exactly the same size, 3172. The most noticeable unfavorable factors this year were: 1. the fact that the new halls were without chapels (tempo­rary chapels will be available for the use of the students after the holi­days); 2. the occurrence of the stu­dent football trip almost immediate­ly after the Mission (it came during the Thanksgiving recess last year, and hence did not affect the attend­ance at Holy Communion during the fall months); and 3. a change in the evaluation of the midsemester tests, which made them appear less formid­able, and sent fewer students in search of Divine aid during the no­vena for examinations. The finish was strong, however, and the outlook is bright for a good increase over last year's total. 

January, 19S2 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 

An Intellectual Alumni Life Dawns 
Being Several Manifestations That Life Is Real and the SheepsInn's'Not Its Goal; Possible Effects on Notre Dame Men Unlimited. 
If it were not that the title "adult education" has been used like the fabled cry of "wolf" until its use works against the ends it aims at, the ALUMNUS would venture the pre­diction that adult education is about to come to Noti-e Dame. 
The topic, in its general phases, has been broached in these pages with the anticipated lack of ovei'whelming response. But that the seed found root here and there is e\'idenced in the grains of encouraging suggestions that are being harvested from the daily mail. 
The most practicable and immediate encouragement (along other lines than appeals for money, disputes over football tickets, or other business transactions which ought to be car­ried on only as the means to higher ends) comes from the response to sug­gestions that alumni aid in recom­mending students. 
The President of the Chicago Club, James H. Brennan, appointed Arthur Hughes, '11, recently, to represent Notre Dame at a "college night" con­ducted by the Maine Township High School. The interest in Notre Dame in this one spot was surprisingly strong, and the reaction on the par­ticipating alumnus is well expressed in Mr. Hughes' letter to the Editor: 
"This little experience has con­vinced me that contacts of this kind, had directly with the graduating classes of high schools, are bound to develop very definite leads along the line of getting a good type of student pei'sonnel. They also offer an excel­lent opportunity to acquaint people in general with the scholastic standards and activities of Notre Dame . . ." 
Another suggestion, along different lines, but toward the same cultural goal, comes from Hari-y Flannery, '23. The Editor is going to use Harry's letter because it is the direct expres­sion of something the ALUMNUS has looked forward to, and reflects only credit upon the author: 
"While I'm thinking about it, Joe Henneberry and I once talked about the idea of an extension service for Notre Dame alumni. By such service, we meant a bulletin system on com­mercial news, philosophy, journalism, history and other subjects, to be available to alumni only, at a certain small and minimum price. 
"This should be practical and de­sired since we are all—or should be interested in the latest information on our business or other interests, and the University should be a logical and authoritative source for such informa­
tion. 
"The service \\ill accomplish two results. One is that it will enable us to continue our interests in university subjects. I for one regret that the loss of immediate university contacts and the inevitable effect of time passed since my graduation has made me lose interests I would like to have continued. These are in philosophy, literature and politics especially. 
"The other result accomplished would be in providing another means by which alumni would continue their affiliation with their university and would be closer to that university in any project it wished to promote. 
"Of course, the alumni would also benefit in the knowledge thus acquired. My idea is that these bulletins would be like those issued by Alexander Hamilton, Dodge and others. A sep­arate charge could be made for each bulletin service desired. Releases could be at regular periods or when­ever a current subject justified com­ment. 
"-4.t present, the chief tie of the alumni is in football. Football thus serves a most impoi'tant purpose, but this bulletin sen'ice would add one more and one more scholarly tie be­tween the alumnus and his university. 
"Pardon the rambling and unsys­tematic presentation of this idea, Jim. It is haphazard in its presenta­tion being knocked off on my machine with but one idea in mind—telling you about the basic principles behind the scheme." 
As Harry anticipates, the practical difficulties in the carrying out of a definite extension service are substan­tial at the present time. If either the University or the Alumni Association were sufficiently financed, a great deal of the ti'ouble would disappear. How­ever, a lot can be accomplished in present circumstances that is not now being done. 
There are a great many problems that affect all of us. There are a great many problems that affect a substantial class of us. These could be treated from time to time by the authorities in the specific field at the University. Problems of religion, of philosophy, of politics and economics, ought to interest most of us. Science, in the more technical sense, interests many. Law problems command a large Notre Dame following. Com­mercial developments have a wide following. Cultural questions find re­ception in almost every individual's life. 
Certainly at Notre Dame, teaching these topics, are men whose words and opinions could shed considerable light on problems that find most of us grasping them a bit vaguely after a few years out of school. These men, if the burden is not too consistently heavy, will be happy to co-operate. 
Defining the problems and the in­terest among the alumni is the diffi­culty. The ALUMNUS published, a year ago, a series of suggested read­ing lists in the various general fields of science, commerce and literature. Undoubtedly these reading lists were used in a large number of cases. Not more than five letters pro or con came to the -Alumni Office to urge a change, a continuance, or a discontinuance. That is one obstacle that has hindered intellectual relations with alumni— the unwillingness of the alumni them­selves to commit themselves as to problems or hobbies. If a man would ask for information on a problem of philosophy as readily as he asks for better football tickets, Flannery's let­ter need never have been written. 
The movement is growing. The Editor believes the incoming expres­sions are more than isolated opinions. 
Here in the St. Joseph Valley there is an agitation among the alumni for the establishment of a Notre Dame alumni round table, to meet at stated intervals to discuss various problems, these discussions to be led by the talent that abounds at the University and in the Club roster itself. The agitators are under no illusions that the six or seven hundred potential members ^vill crowd a hall for a dis­cussion on "Fascism and World Peace" to use as an example a splen­did paper by Professor Farrell, de­livered at a civic round table recently. But if twenty or thirty or forty alumni, having interests far more mutual than many successful civic organizations aiming at similar objec­tives, get together, a high purpose will have been served. 
This is a suggestion the Clubs can do well to follow. Every Club has successful lawyers, doctors, business men, teachers, who can prepare pa­pers essentially enlightening to those of us whose daily routine prohibits the intelligent pursuit of outside interests. 
Culture is the least costly of alumni activities. Dinners and dances and 
(Turn to Next Page) 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1932 
NOMINATING COMMITTEES AT WORK 
The committees, as specified in the Constitution, are equal in powers and not to be identified with the nomina­tions. Only the necessity for refer­ence in the ALUMNUS makes it nec­essary to designate them Committees 
(a) and (b). 
(a). Thomas Curry, LL.B. '14, 647 Main St., Hartford, Conn., Chairman; Daniel Coughlin, Ph.B. Joum.; '22, Waseca, Minn.; James P. Swift, LL.B. 
•24, 422 Interurban Bldg., Dallas, Texas. 
(b). Arthur Hughes, Ph.B. '11, 
LL.B. '17,134 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Chaii-man; John Cassidy, LL.B. '17, 904 Peoria Life Bldg., Peoria, 111.; Daniel O'Neil, E.E. '25, 9 W. 16th St., New York City. 
President Hayes has given to these committees the consideration that the importance of their duties deserves. Officers of the Alumni Association no longer serve a purely honorary pur­pose. This fact becomes more evident with each year. President Hayes found that out. He has given liberally of his time to the project, and was fortunately so situated as to be able to do so. His selection of committees is based upon a close contact with the affairs and the personnel of the Asso­ciation. The committees purport to be nothing other than six good men and true whom the President believes ^vill­ing and qualified to select the candi­dates for office for the next Associa­tion year. 
The duties of the Committees are familiar to most of you. 
ARTICLE VII. ELECTION OF OFFICERS 
Section 1. At the annual meeting, but not later than November 1st fol­lowing, the incoming President shall appoint two nominating committees, of three members each, who have not held office for a year. 
Nominations for all elective offices shall be made by these committees. 
The names and addresses of the members of these committees shall be published in every edition of the "Notre Dame Alumnus" issued after November 1st of that year and until January 20th following, with a re­quest for suggestions from the mem­bership at large. 
Section 2. These two committees shall confer separately, but each shall apprise the other of its conclusions, upon the nomination for President, on or before January 20th. The two committees are required to make dif­ferent nominations for President; but otherivise shall not be restricted against duplication of nominations. On or before February 1st, both com­mittees shall report their nominations to the President and to the Secre­tary; and from thence fonvard, the Secretary shall cause such nomina­tions to be published in the ALUM­NUS continuously until the annual meeting without reference to which committee made the nominations. 
Section 3. Any twenty-five mem­bers, not more than ten of whom shall reside in any one county, may, by petition addressed to the Secre­tary, make other nominations, and providing this is done by filing same with the Secretary not later than March 1st. Such nominations shall also be published in the ALUMNUS after they are received, as in the pre­ceding section required. 
Section 4. The names of all per­sons nominated shall be placed by the Secretary on a printed Ballott, in alphabetical order, without distinc­tion as to method of nomination, and one ballot, together with an envelope marked "Ballot," with lines for the signature and address of the voter, shall be mailed, on or before May 20th to each member entitled to vote. 
The ALUMNUS suggests that any action independent of the regular channels be taken early. Several sug­gestions have been made in other in­stances that, while they possessed unquestioned merit, were outside the constitutional provisions and thus had to be wrapped in a completely new ball of red tape. 

AN INTELLECTUAL ALUMNI LIFE DAWNS 
(Continued from Page 117) 
football games serve a very useful purpose and will always fascinate. But they demand a price. For these proposed meetings, room can always be secured gratis. Men can bring their own smokes. And such is the charity of culture that a request for a paper usually commands the best talent without cost. 
The movement requires determined, intelligent leadership, that will not be discouraged with small attendance or surface skepticism. Reason is right. Persistence in this direction will make the outsider the loser. The call now is for those hardy spirits in the far places, and the near, who will break the ice of superficial pleasures upon which our Association is skating and get into the cool depths for which our college education prepared us. 
If there is a demand for culture, rest assured there will be a supply. 
LATE NEWS OF CLEVELAND 
Dear Jim: 
el know it will grieve you to learn that Fred Joyce, your previous cor­respondent, sustained three severe fractures of his left arm on Decem­ber 12th while riding a polo pony at the Equestrium at Cleveland. It ap­pears that the horse was making the comers too quickly and lost his foot­ing, both Freddie and the horse land­ing on Freddie's left arm. We have recommended less dangerous pas­times to Fred on numerous occasions but he just will ride horses. Fred has found solace, however, in the fact that he can still do his New Year's Eve lifting with his right arm—^what a break! The fractures are knitting nicely and a complete recovery is eventually anticipated. 
We have continued to have a nice crowd at our Monday and Saturday luncheons in the Subway. Among those regularly present have been J. 
P. Canny, Frank Andrews, John Bel-john, John Butler, Frank Butler, Jr., Tom Byrne, Jim Callahan, Gene Kane, George Leppig, Clayton Le-Roux, Harry Miller, Gene Milliff, Jerry Miller, Chuck Rohr, Fritz Slackford, Dan Sammon, Joe Thomp­son, Matt Trudelle, Frank Cull, Dan Duffy, Bill Dore, John Dore, Ray Joyce, Bill Krider, N. J. McCloud, Chuck Mooney, Bill O'Neill, Miles Ryan, Jerry Reidy, John Raleigh, Al Sommers, Judge Joe Smith, H. L. Stettler, Joe Toolen, John Weisend and various others from time to time. 
We have the walls of the Subway decorated to lend a Notre Dame at­mosphere, including artistic repre­sentations of football players, the Dome, the Stadium and various other dishes a la Notre Dame. The artistry is by Frank Andrews and Jim Calla­han. The Subway is open regularly and visiting Alumni are urged to drop in for luncheon or dinner any time. 
Harry Miller recently called a meeting of our Alumni in the Sub­way in connection with the Rockne Memorial which proved to be un­usually successful in bringing out some of the Old Timers whom we haven't seen in years, including Dr. 
H. G.. McCarthy. 
Henry Newmark, the oldest local graduate, who was at Notre Dame back in the Seventies, was unable to attend because of ill health, but sent an inspiring letter urging an added effort for the drive. 
This is a great plenty for one letter. Use what you want. George Kerver, Sec'y. 

January, 19S2 THE NOTEE DAME ALUMNUS 
tlillMlllltllllillliiilllltlllf lllltlllllilltllllllll •IDIIIIIIitiiiiiiillllllliiiiiiiiitlDiiiiiiiiiiiMlltllilltlllllilM 
e 
ATHLETICS: 

fSlmtmi 
'BY JOSEPH PETRITZ, '32"" " """• 
Nation Hails Notre Darnels All-Americans 
Great 1931 Team Produces Stars Despite Defeats,- Sports Authorities Recognize 
All-American selections, which keep the breath oif life in football a month or so after its fields of battle are for the most part quiet, fairly bristled with Notre Dame men this year, in spite of the two reverses at the end of the season. In addition to the fol­lowing four men, the honorable men­tion lists recognized practically every position on the N. D. squad. 
CAPT. TOMMY YARR 
Center All-American* 

Combining all the fire of a Dublin-born father and the stolidity of an Indian-blooded mother with the cour­age of both. Captain Tommy Yarr proved himself during the 1931 sea­son worthy of a niche in the hall of fame reserved for Notre Dame foot­ball captains. 
After playing third string ball in 1929 and making a wild but not so costly pass against Northwestern that year, Tommy gathered himself together and played the most bril­liant defensive ball of any man on the squad the ne.xt year when he went up to the varsity. 
As captain, he was given a chance to bring out his ability as a leader. Never did he rise to greater heights than in Notre Dame's two hardest games. When Northwestern held the Fighting Irish to a scoreless tie in the mire of Soldier field. Tommy played perfect ball, despite the fact that his left hand was in cast, broken in practice that week, and a finger in his right hand was cut to the bone. Every pass he made was perfectly timed and placed—five of them were to Marchy Schwartz kicking from be­hind his own goal with a heavy ball and 75,000 pairs of eyes watching for him to slip. On defense he was equal­ly brilliant. 
Against Southern California, in the heart-breaking last quarter when the mighty Trojan attack unleashed it­self. Tommy never lost heart and he didn't let his teammates lose their spirit. When Southern California led Notre Dame, 16 to 14, with a minute to play. Tommy was still in there, giving everything he had, as he had been taught to give by great Notre Dame captains before him. 
.Individual Abilities of Players 
They don't make men like Tommy every day. Let him know Notre Dame appreciates him and loves him. He won't be forgotten as long as people meet to talk football and to reminisce. 
* Associated Press Selections. 
MARCHMONT SCHWARTZ 
Left Halfback All-Ainericanj 

Class! This word, possibly not the best possible choice, sums up better than any other we know, the most brilliant of many brilliant left half­backs in Notre Dame history. When Rockne told his teams to "Be classy!", he wanted them to be like Marchy Schwartz has been in his three years as a Notre Dame player. 
He wanted them to do things well, to know from experience and hard work what they were trying to do, to fight like fury, in short, not to "go out and die, but to go out and win!" And this, without showing a great deal of emotion, too much confidence, or a "hero complex." 
After going through the 1930 sea­son as the man directly responsible for nearly all of Notre Dame vic­tories, Schwartz returned during the past season to rise to new heights. In every hard game, he came through like a master. He averaged five yards a trip against Northwestern and averaged 46 yards on his punts with a wet, heavy, slippery ball. 
His two passes to Melinkovich and Jaskwhich put the Pitt game aw^ay before the half; he ran 59 yards against Carnegie Tech to score; he averaged five yards against Southern California and kicked like a demon all afternoon because there was no one to replace him; he ran 16 yards to score against Navy and then threw two passes for other touchdowns. 
He was named all-American unan­imously and many writers called him the outstanding gridiron star of the year. He was the perfect football player in every game. He was just as perfect a gentleman on and off the field. 
Marchy is through with football now, although he will return to Notre Dame next year to complete his Law course. He is another whose name will go down in the brilliant history of Fighting Irish football men. 
t Unanimous. 
JOSEPH KURTH 
Right Tackle All-American* 

Few Notre Dame footbaU players make the long jump from the fresh­man team to the varsity squad of three teams in one season; fewer still go to the first team. Only one has ever played as a sophomore with a national championship eleven. 
He is Joe Kurth, the strapping right tackle whom Rockne selected to replace Dick Donoghue in the opening game of 1930 when Dono­ghue was injured. Rockne seldom had to make a second guess and he was dead right from the start in Joe's case—Joe saw to that. 
After one brilliant season, Kurth came back during 1931 to establish himself as the first 'all - American tackle in Notre Dame history in a system that does not give the tackle much chance to play in the open. Kurth was great enough, however, both in courage and ability, to per­form the ordinary duties perfectly and take on additional burdens. 
He played longer than any one else in the Northwestern game but never got credit because he wore a diiferent jersey number the second half. He opposed Pitt against doctors' orders when injured because the second and third string men were not able to play; he spent three days of the next week on a hospital cot and was back the following Saturday to carry on against Carnegie. 
Against Southern California, though, he was superb. Not a yard was gained through him; he blocked Baker's first attempted conversion, fell on Musick's fumble on his own three-yard .line in the first quarter, made the large majority of tackles on punts, and on offense made the holes through which Schwartz made all his longer runs. 
If this isn't all-American perform­ance, what is? Kurth has another year to play and you can put down one 1932 star for the books right 
•New York Sun, Worfd-Tdegnun, and Poet. 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1932 
FRANK NORDY HOFFMANN Martin's of Seattle but he liked to Pressed for material, "Hunk" An­watch the game and went out as a derson shifted him to right guard 
Right Guard 

freshamn manager. When track sea­last fall and he rose to the heights 
All-Americanj 

son came along, he was told to toss of stardom, even getting considerable 
This is probably the only publica­tion in the country to spell Nordy Hoffmann's name with both "n's," but we asked him and it's right. He's all German — with a spark of Irish picked up by association. 
Frank Merriwell came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1928 in the form of a robust blond lad of some 200 pounds, who measured something like six feet two inches in height. He came imder a different name but it was Frank Merriwell, all right. 
He hadn't played football at St. 

the weight back to the shot-putters. He tossed it so far that Coach John Nicholson spotted him and measured him for a suit. He was pretty good —he was runner-up for the state championship the next year. As a track man, he met a lad named Marty Brill, a right halfback, who told him to try out for the team. 
He did; he made the third team at right tackle and came back the next year to make the third team again under Joe Kurth and Art McMan­mon, who had got the jump on him by playing in high school. 
all-American mention as a real var­sity player. 
Aggressive, fast, brainy, and for­titudinous, he played brilliant all-around ball in every game, although badly injured in the Southern Cali­fornia and Army contests. 
Now he has finished his career, a shining example of what hard work will do, an Inspiration to a host of not-so-good high school stars, and a hale fellow if there ever was one. 
t Associated Press Selections. 

Veteran Basketball Team Slow in Starting 
Victory in First Game With Northwestern Indicates Hitting Stride; Passing and Defense Excellent; Early Eye Trouble. 
George Keogan's veteran quintet, augmented by a number of flashy newcomers, surprised followers of the Notre Dame court sport by dropping its first two contests against Big Ten opponents, albeit those two opponents represent in the nation's eyes the cream of the basketball crop. 
Kalamazoo and Adrian colleges were disposed of in the season's openers on December 4 and 8 by the respective scores 37-7 and 37-13, in the style to which the Keogan fans expected to become accustomed. With Captain Norbert Crowe and Bill New-bold at the for\vard berths, Ray De-Cook at center, Johnny Baldwin and Tommy Burns at guards. Coach Keo­gan had a combination that was knocking them off with pretty much the old Seth Thomas precision at the end of last season. 
All was merry as a marriage bell when hark, and so on, along came Indiana. The Editor, not being an expert, feels free to say that Notre Dame handled the ball in mid-season form in every particular of the game —except that technical branch which covers the dropping of the sphere through the hoop for what are com­monly called points, and which seemed, in that game, to be over­emphasized. Indiana, on the contrary, while lacking the polish in passing the ball about, was wide-eyed in view of its veteran opponents, so much so that their vision of the basket was unim­paired. History, rightly or wrongly, depending upon the occasion and the balance, is brutally brief. Probably a few years from now no one will know how many more shots Notre Dame had than Indiana. The record will simply read Indiana 23, Notre Dame 18. 
Purdue must have scouted the In-
DB. GEORGE KEOGAN 
Notre Dame's Court Marshal 
1931-32 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 
UNrVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Dec 4—Kalamazoo 7. N. D. 37. Dec 8—Adrian 13. N. D. 37. Dec 12—Indiana 23, N. D. 18. Dec IS—Purdue 32. N. D. 24. Dec 21—Northwestern 2.i. N. D. 32. Dec 31—^Northwestern at Evanston. Jan. 5—St. Thomas (St. Paul) here. Jan. 9—Michigan State at E. Lansing. Jan. 12—Marquette here. Jan. 16—Pennsylvania at Philadelphia. Jan. 23—Pittsburgh here. Feb. 1—Iowa here. Feb. 6—Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh. Feb. 10—Syracuse here. Feb. 13—Western Reserve at Cleveland. Feb. 19—Butler at Indianapolis. Feb. 23—Michigan State here Feb. 27—^Army here Mar. 4—Marquette at Milwaukee Mar. 11—Butler here. 

diana game, a point which Notre Dame evidently missed, because rumor has it that the same situation pre­vailed, with few modifications. Notre Dame was a little tougher, but so was Purdue. Wooden was anything else but, and the Notre Dame combination having been broken up by the illness of Baldwin, once more posterity will read those simple words graven in the Spalding guide, Purdue 32, Notre Dame 24. 
Northwestern, a little sensitive about what might have happened on a dry field, sent down a basketball team to suggest an answer. It was not that Northwestern was unpre­pared. But somewhere in that thought­fully provided interim before Dec 21, Notre Dame had learned the gentle and essential art of making hoopie. 
Northwestern could pass and could 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
shoot baskets. So could Notre Dame. For more than half the game it looked as though Judge Landis would have to flip a coin, if any, to decide the answer. The half ended, 14-14. Reiff, the Northwestern man who spoiled Notre Dame's chances at Evanston last year in the waning moments of the game, was a threat again this year. The boy has a deadly eye for the basket, but no great liking for a fervent mix-up over possession of the ball. Inasmuch as a set shot was like a two-point contribution, Notre Dame was loath to let him get set. The rules provide a certain amount of liberty for the defense, which was exercised rather generally. It was only in the last half, toward the final gun, horn and what have you that ends Notre Dame's home games, that Notre Dame broke away in a flurry of points that left the Purple at the short end of a 32-25 score. The second game of this series was to be played December 31 at Evanston. The Feb­ruary ALUMNUS will have to report it. It ought to be good. 
Another Crowe has made his ap­pearance on the team. Leo, this time. The flfth of the famous Lafayette, Ind., family to play on Notre Dame's basketball team, Leo looks consider­ably like Clem, '26, in action, and promises to keep up the old Crowe tradition very ably. Brother Norb, you have noted, is captain of the team this year. Several other likely can­didates have broken through the vet­eran wall to show a good brand of ball. Johnson at guard is an expe­rienced substitute for Johnny Bald­win. Schumacher has had exparience at forward. From the outstanding freshman squad of last year, Davis is 
TOONERVJLLE POLKS 
the flashiest man to make an appear­ance this year, practically running away with the Northwestern game in the final minutes, with two field goals and a free throw. Leo Crowe has been mentioned. Another of the in­creasingly-prominent Newbold family of basketball men is also eligible this year to play with brother Bill in the footsteps of brother Bob. Ed Krause, who played tackle on the football team to the edification of the football world, is a sophomore guard of much promise. Joe Voegle, a long-geared center from Peoria, has furnished a substitute for the able De Cook. 
With the basket eye displayed in the Northwestern game, supplemented by a really remarkable ability on de­fense and in passing, Notre Dame stands fair to make the season very interesting in the remaining fifteen games. 
tX-1 

A "NATIONAL FIGURE" LOOKS AT OUR LOSSES (Courtesy of the Bell Syndicate) 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January, 1932 
Q. iiiiiittiiiiimiMMtiKiiiiiiitiiiitMttii itiiiiiittiitiiitiiHiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiiwiHiiiiiiiiiiMMiiMiMiiimiiimmiiiiiiiiiiiiittiiMUMUMiitmitiup^ 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
B•MtiitiitiMniiiiiii 
BUFFALO 

New officers for 1932 were elected at the annual meeting held by the Club on December 11. They are: 
President: Martin Eyan, '28, 21 Orchard Place, Buffalo, N. Y. Vice-President: Paul Hoeffler, '25, 1509 Liberty Bank Bldg. Secretary: C. J. Irwin, Jr., '29, 315 Washington St. Treasurer: Martin Travers, '28, 373 Parkside Ave. 
A committee to confer with pros­pective students was appointed by past-President, Gordon Bennett. They are: Jay L. Lee, Dr. Robert Bums, and the President of the Club. 
Paul Hoeffler adds to the Buffalo 

Notes by contributing the following: 
"Dear Jim: 
"Well, Jim, I suppose your turkey is past history also, and with Christ­mas so near you are now looking for­ward to another square meal. 
"A few of the boys will be eating out of cans for awhile, just having acquired wives. You know it seems as though the depression never hit Buffalo. Bob Moore started the parade about two months ago. Mrs. Moore was with Bob at the midnight show­ing of "The Spirit of Notre Dame." Our approval, 0. K. 
"Yesterday our social lion, Ed J. Lutz, was jnarried to another local entry. After travelling here and there Mr. and Mrs. will come back to Buffalo. One hour after Ed's disas­ter, C. J. (Bus) Irwin, Jr., did the same dam thing .. . all married and on his way to Cuba by now. He mar­ried a childhood sweetheart. Our best of luck to them all. 
"The 'B' team drew the biggest crowd Buffalo has seen at a U. of Buffalo football game in years. I think the boys enjoyed the visit very much —the Falls, the dinners, the parties, and all the trimmings. We hope they come again. 
"The midnight show for 'The Spirit of Notre Dame' was great, just like a homecoming celebration—^the Canisius College band,' where Gene Oberst is coaching, parading down Main street playing the 'Victory March.' Confetti, horns, whistles, etc. . . . the mob mill­ing and "hellos" .. . it was South Bend, HuUie and Mike's, Oliver Hotel and all combined. Mark Kobel was there with his girl. They are engaged by now; John Uebbing with his two brothers, Joe and Bernard; George Doyle and his folks; Vince Hanrahan 
It lliniKMntlHUMIUtllltlMIIIMIHIIIIIIHIItllllllt ItlltllUlltlllDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllKllii 
and his mother and sisters; Marty Travers, our financial wizard; Tom Kenny, et al. 
"Biff Lee who is chairman for the Eockne Memorial in Buifalo gave N. 
D. followers in Western New York a real treat in the story he told of Rock and Notre Dame 
"The Buffalo gang wish you all a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year." (Ed's note: For which the Editor, still groggy from the an­nual Christmas gorging, thanks you and returns the greeting.) 
CAPITAL DISTRICT 

The Alumni Secretary extends the sympathy of the Association to the members of the Club of the Capital District on the loss of their beloved president, John Forbing. 
Mr. Forbing has been a tireless worker in alumni affairs and has been an important factor in the Rockne Memorial organization. In fact, death came a few short hours after a dinner for the interest of the Memorial. 
To you members of the Club who will "carry on" the splendid work started by your President, we would like to quote from a recent letter from Mr. Forbing: 
"Always, I feel something over­whelming when I attempt to allot praise to the members of our club for the work they do—^there has been no time when called upon to address them but that, afterwards, I have felt and known that I had overlooked opportunity to praise." 
Mr. Forbing's words on hearing of the death of Mr. Rockne can well be applied to himself: "Especially do I sympathize with Notre Dame who has lost such a loyal son." The Club of the Capital District will miss him, Notre Dame will miss him; but his loyalty to his university and his un­tiring efforts in her behalf will live on to be an inspiration to his col­leagues. 
Due to the fact that business has caused Ward Leahy to remove to Syracuse, Walter O'Brien has been appointed Secretary-Treasurer of the Club. Walter may be located at 292 Sherman St., Albany, N. Y. News concerning the Club may be referred to him or direct to this office before the 20th of each month. 
CHICAGO 

In the absence of a report from the Chicago Club we assume the energy of President Brennan and his com­mittees is being concentrated on the Rockne Memorial. 
Members of the Club are to be con­gratulated on their splendid work in co-operating with the Alumni Office in contacting prospective students at several high schools in the Chicago Club district. Art Hughes will soon be awarded his deserved title of "con­tact man." 
Dick Halpin and Eddie Gould were together so much the week-end of the Army game that we jumped at con­clusions and printed something to the effect that Eddie and Dick were part­ners in the Special-Train-to-the-Army­gatfte project. We have since learned that Eddie played a lone hand. Dick just happened to be a member of the party. 
LOS ANGELES 

No news from Los Angeles? We have just stopped our gamboling around in the sunshine and spring­like weather Indiana has been dishing out for the past month, to wonder what has happened to the land of sun­shine. Maybe the Club Secretary froze his hands and can't write the Club Notes or maybe he is marooned in the Los Angeles flood. If we are to believe the Chicago Tribune Los-Angeles is "waist deep in floods." 
MILWAUKEE 

Dear Jim: News from these parts is quite scarce with the exception of the fact that regular meetings have been held during the past month promoting the "Eockne Memorial" idea. Freeman Fitzgerald, Chet Freeze and Dud Pearson are evidencing the "old spirit" capaMy assisted by the sagacious Tom Kelly, and the other members of the club. Harry Porter, '30, and Charley Schutty, '29, wandered in the other night. Harry has been up in the northern part of the state telling them how to map out bigger and bet­ter highways. Charley, we are told, is doing nice things out at the Allis-Chalmers plant. Monday night, December 28th, the local unit entertained all the students home for the holidays at a dinner. A good program was arranged by Bill Redden. I hope to have more dope for you next time, Jim. Sincerely, ANG GALDABINI. 
NEW YOEK 

Eddie Byrne is apparently still stunned by the outcome of the Army game. Anyivay, the Office has not re­ceived the customary report of the Club's activities. 
The eyes of the nation were turned Eastward and alumni activity cen­tered in and around New York Thanksgiving week. Special trains from all parts of the country carried enthusiastic football fans to America's largest city, and many a Thanksgiv­ing turkey was carved in Mr. Pull­man's dining room instead of at the family dinner table to insure an early arrival in the big town and perhaps an informal reunion with classmates and friends before the game. 
One of the most colorful of these special trains was the Student Special which carried over two hundred stu­dents of the metropolitan area from Notre Dame to New York. This train was perhaps the first of the various "specials" to arrive in New York. It puffed into the Grand Central early Thursday morning. 
Our "representative," whose head­quarters was the Hotel McAlpin, re­ports many a gay little story of re­unions in and around the 34th Street hostelry. Rumor has it that some happy scenes were enacted at the ticket office in the Mc.A.lpin. Haley and Jones were barricaded behind its sacred portals and many an alumnus found his way there with the faint hope that a friend of a friend might be able to secure twelve good tickets for the game; or frantically implored tw o fifty-yard-line-half-way-up fo r "the boss." 
Our "representative" Pepys fashion reports the following: 
In New York early Thursday and found Dick Halpin the only person in the McAlpin lobby. Dick, to our way of thinking, looked like the spirit of Park Avenue or something in his dark suit, coat and derby. Out on 34th Street and Broadway to be jostled by a mob all intent on seeing the parade of giant balloons from Mac/s which, we hear, is an annual event. There ought to be a law! To dinner and a-partying with friends. To my downy couch at sun-up. 
Awakened early on a Friday by friends just arriving in New York with Hunk Anderson, Jesse Harper and the team and listening to their stories of a big bridge session from Toledo to New York in which Jesse was the loser. Down to the lobby which resembled the Hotel Stevens on such week-ends, if you know what I mean. Spied somebody in a black hat who turned out to be Morrie Starrett of Seattle. To lunch, visiting, dinner. 
and Mr. Carroll's Vanities, and a party. Back to the McAlpin to find a phone call from Henry Frey of Fordham law school and the Bronx. And right sorry to have missed him. Another phone call from Watts Eicher, formerly of Notre Dame, serves as a good alarm clock for Saturday morning and greetings from Johnny Howard and Jack Lavelle make life worth living again. Too late for lunch, and not hungry any­way, so up and away to the game which was all wet. Saw Cyp Sporl of "New Ahlens" about ten rows in front of us and he looked cold and disgusted. (Well, why not.) Up try­ing to find a dry place where we might see the game and ran across Frank Donovan and his wife of South Bend feeling as low as every other Notre Dame fan. Frank Doan and a sweet young thing, the only two peo­ple who looked fairly happy and com­fortable the whole afternoon. We nominate them for the hall of fame. Back to the second half and wonder­ing how Jack Chevigny manages to keep his pearl grey hat so spotless on a rainy afternoon. And into a heated argument with some fresh city slicker who was busy convincing everyone within hearing of his voice that the fife and drum corps that "marched up and down and marched back again" between the halves was the Notre Dame band. 
The game over and not feeling as though we had seen a Notre Dame team play. Into a cab and back to the hotel to have a post mortem with Joe Casasanta and Morrie Starrett, and ran into Hunk and Mrs. Ander­son in the elevator and John (Ike) Voedisch and his wife. Tom Conley causes nothing less than a panic among the girls present when he saunters down the hall on the loth floor of the McAlpin. 
Out to dinner and dance before train time and ran into Joe Lenihan of Long Island who is looking better 'n' better. And John Burns, a '31 grad from Brooklyn, recognizes me in spite of the disguise and we have a nice little chat, during which time I spy Jack Saunders, past Senior Class president, and Art McManmon, broth­er of "big John" from Lowell. There were also the fifteen or twenty familiar faces that we knew belonged to alumni and who all answered to the name of "Mac." 
Out of Grand Central again at 
12:30 Sunday morning. Mass in Syra­cuse and home and to bed Sunday night, feeling disappointed at missing Dan Halpin's party at the Vanderbilt and Joe Byrne's at the same place; and resolved that football week-ends should last a week at least and look­ing forward to next season. 
SOUTHWESTERN TEXAS 

We are glad to have a reassuring 
letter from Joe Menger, of San An­
tonio, to the effect that he made his 
first official visit to his office since he 
left the hospital some time ago after 
a very serious operation. Joe says: 
"I have just appointed the follow­
ing fellows on the committee to inter­
view prospective candidates for Notre 
Dame: Leonard Mark Hess is the 
chairman, and the other two members 
are Harold Tynan and myself. 
"As this is my first c^cial visit to the office I prevailed on the able secre­tary to drop you a note to tell yon that I am feeling fine, just a little weak, and will drop yon a longer line very shortly. 
"With kindest regards and best wishes, 1 have the honor to remain. Very truly yours, JOE MENGEB." 
THE ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

"The twelfth annual civic testi­monial banquet to the Fighting Irish and their coaches" was held in the University Dining Halls on Monday, December 7, imder the auspices of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley. Neither defeat nor depres­sion dimmed or dampened the ardor of the hundreds of South Bend men, alumni and non-alumni, who gathered to pay tribute to the great team of 1931 and the coaching staff. Nor was the speaking program hampered by these circumstances. 
The brilliant address of the Presi­dent of the University is printed sep­arately in this issue and was un­questionably the oratorical high light of the evening. 
Invocation was pronounced by the Rev. M. A. Mulcaire, C.S.C, '17, vice-president of the University and chair­man of the Athletic Board. 
Following a splendid dinner during which the University Band played, Bernard J. Voll, '17, president of the Club, introduced the program with an eloquence reminiscent of his Breen Medal ilights, paying a beautiful tribute to Rockne in the quotation of a poem and his own more personal sentiments. Following his address and a welcome to the guests, Warren Brown, toastmaster for the evening, was introduced. 
If you've heard Warren Brown pre­side, you need no comment further. If yon haven't, yon wouldn't under­stand the comment anyhow. He is un­questionably an outstanding candidate for the All-American toastmastership which was later proposed for him by Major John L. Griffith. 
The ability of the 1931 team and the genius of its coaches were praised and the sportsmanship of the squad and the school lauded beyond measure by Hon. Walter Steffen, retiring coach of Carnegie Tech, and Major John L. Griffith, commissioner of athletics for the Big Ten. 
The guest of honor of the evening, besides the immediate objects of the dinner, was Hon. Harry Mackey, mayor of Philadelphia, sportsman, former football player, and admirer of Notre Dame. Mayor Mackey paid glowing tribute to Notre Dame's team of the current season and to the un­derlying principles which this team and all other University teams. Hunk and the late Knute Eockne, represent. He asserted that the University, through these contacts, had endeared itself to the American public, and Philadelphia felt that Notre Dame was a most esteemed friend, that the University was a part of that city as well as South Bend. He declared his intention of further carrying the principles of Notre Dame, as exempli­fied in this banquet to a losing team, back to the t\vo million friends of the University in his constituency. Mayor Mackey also gave high praise to John Neeson, '03, his city engineer, who accompanied him on the trip. 
Heartly "Hunk" Anderson, senior coach, spoke briefly on the season, thanking the boys and the coaching staff for the excellent support they 
•gave him and the brilliant manner in which they carried on for Eock. 
Junior coach Jack Chevigny intro­duced the members of the team. Vari­ous awards for AU-American honors, state honors, and gifts from the St. Joseph Valley Club to the senior monogram men, were presented to the members of the squad during the ceremonies of introduction. 
The University Glee Club gave several songs to vary the generally delightful and rounded-out program. 
Jimmy Crowley, '25, head coach at Michigan State College, has lost none of the humor that made him famous as an undergraduate speaker, and has gained a great deal of poise and polish besides. His talk was the most enter­taining of the evening and an excel­lent sauce for the heavier intellectual foodstuffs. 
Dick Hanley, coach of North­western, pleased his audience by ex­pressing a greater desire for a victory over Notre Dame than any two con­temporaries in the Big Ten. That Dick is always in earnest, the guests of honor could testify. Combining Dick's talk and Hunk's, the listeners were led to believe that the next Northwestem-N. D. game will per­haps be on a par \\ith the other epics of the series. 
Jesse Harper, director of athletics at Notre Dame, spoke most highly of the team and the coaching staff with whom he worked during the season. He expressed Notre Dame's gratifica­tion at the splendid athletic relations with competitors, as illustrated by the presence of so many rival coaches at these testimonial banquets each year, and the accompanying hope that these wholesome rivalries would continue. 
The program was climaxed by the 

address of the Rev. Charles L. O'Don­
nell, C.S.C, '06, which you have 
probably read elsewhere in this issue. 
Everyone missed the man whose presence had electrified these banquets every year but one—1929—Knute Eockne. But tlie banquet proved in­disputably that the citizens of South fiend, led by the Notre Dame men in the community, will accord the same co-operation to Hunk and the men who compose the teams of Notre Dame in the years to come. 
A. Harold Weber, '23, was general chairman of the banquet this year. Committees were as follows: 
Executive: Bernard Voll, Rev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, Robert McAuliffe, Seymour Weisberger, Eugene O'Toole, Thomas Happer, William Sheehan, E. 
J. McErlain, Dudley Shively, Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C, E. J. Mee­han, Vitus Jones, Michael Donahue, Giles Cain, Frank Coughlin, R. B. Borland and James E. Armstrong. 
Tickets: William Sheehan, Herbert Jones, James Armstrong, Thomas Happer, J. H. B. McCarthy, Eugene O'Toole, Casper Grathwohl and Clar­ence Bunce. 
Guests: Al McGann, Ray Schaub, Paul Castner, Alexis Coquillard, Dil­lon Patterson, Will Bergan, J. H. B. McCarthy, Howard Haley, Paul But­ler, Joseph Hogan, Vitus Jones, Paul Sagstetter. 
Floor: William Andres, L. A. Kolupa, George Heneghan, Frank Miles, Louis Chapleau, Walter Eauh, Arthur Diedrich, W. E. Voor, Dan Kelly, Ivan Sharp, Ed Smith, John Mclntyre, Francis Jones, Clarence Harding, George Baldus, Frank Dono­van and Jay Masenich. 
Door: Grover Malone, Giles Cain and Frank Coughlin. 
Reception: Paul Castner, Robert McAuliffe, Harry Richwine, J. Elmer Peak, Joseph Donahue, Joseph Kovacs, 

RETURN YOUR BALLOT 
The Alumni OflSce will ap­preciate prompt return of the Constitutional Ballots. Febru­ary 15 is the closing date. 
E. J. Meehan, M. Edward Doran, B. 

J. McCaffrey, Eugene Smogor, Aaron Huguenard and Callix Miller. 
Reception of Guests at Dining Hall: Bernard J. Voll, Frank E. Hering, J. 
M. Stephenson, James Oliver II, J. Arthur Haley, E. M. Morris, Clarence Manion, G. A. Farabaugh, Howard Edwards, George O'Brien, Walter Clements. 
Publicity: Thomas Coman, Ray Flanagan, E. J. Meehan, Francis T. Aheam, Joseph Donahue, Al McGann, 
J. H. B. McCarthy, Bernard Voll and James E. Armstrong. 
Program: E. J. Meehan, J. H. B. McCarthy, Bernard Voll, A. Harold Weber. 
Radio: Michael Donahue, E. J. Mee­han. 
Entertainment: Joseph Casasanta, .Rev. Raymond Murch, C.S.C. 
Budget: Al McGann, E. J. McEr­lain. 
Mishawaka: Dr. Leo P. Van Rie, Hon. Albert Doyle, John Schindler, John Raab, A. J. Major, Leo Van Til­bury and Russell Arndt. 
Elkhart: Robert Proctor. 
Goshen: Martin Schnur. 
Niles-Buchanan: Thomas Fan-ell, 

Leo Cook and Phil Landsman. 
St. Joseph-Benton Harbor: Martin McGrath, Lawrence Krieger and Eu­gene O'Toole. 
Educational Confraternity-Hears Father Nieuwland 
The Educational Confraternity had the distinction of being one of the first campus organizations to hear Father Julius Nieuwland since his discovery of synthetic rubber, and it was a highly appreciative audience which 
sat in the basement of Walsh hall De­cember 1, listening to the story of its development, at first by accident, and then through years of dogged research. 
Father Nieuwland afterward showed his listeners some of the various ways in which the new discovei-y could be commercialized, and demonstrated its advantages. The new Duprene will not replace rubber, but rather will be used as a substitute in those instances where natural rubber has proved un­satisfactory. 
The Confraternity is a scholastic organization of all those students in­terested in any phase of education. Each meeting has a guest speaker, after whose address there is an open forum. 
Qaaitiiaaatiatiaiiitaiiiaiiaaaaiaiiiaaittaitaaiiaiiaiaiaaaiiaitaaiiaaittiitaaiiiaiiiaiiiaitaii •aaiiaaaiiaaiiaaiitatiaaitiaiiiaiiaaaiiaaiiaaaiiaaiiiatiiaaataaaiiaiaiaiiaiiaatiaaattitnaiiii 
-B 

^THE ALUMNI 
Q. atiaaiiiiaiiiaiiaaaiiaaaii liitiiaataainaiiaiaMaiitaa 
Births 

Mr. and Mrs. HERBERT P. VAL­KER, '23, annonuce the arrival on November 28 of another boy, Richard. He will be a playmate for Herbert, Jr., and Thomas Feely. The Valkers are residents of Wilmette, 111. 
An item which was omitted last month is presented with humble apolo­gies now. Dr. and Mrs. J. R. DUN­DON, '14, added Elizabeth to their family, Monday, October 5th. Thomas is two years old and Mary is four. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS AHEARN, '27, announce the birth of a son, on December 26. The younger Ahearn will answer to the name of James Francis. His papa is city editor of the South Bend News-Times. 

Engagements -» 

Mr. and Mrs. Edwin BuUinger Whitney, of Whitney Place, Niagara Falls, N. Y., annonuce the engage­ment of their daughter, Miss Virginia Whitney, to Mr. W. A. McCLEARY, Jr., '29, of Brooklyn, N. Y. The mar­riage will take place the eai-ly part of this year. 
Miss Whitney is a graduate of the Martha Washington Seminary, Wash­ington, D. C, and Bill was graduated from Brooklyn Prep School and Notre Dame. 
Announcement is made of the en­gagement of Miss Ruth Judge Mac­Bride, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John 
J. MacBride, Columbus, Ohio, to Mr. ROSCOE C. BONJEAN, ex '28, of Pekin, 111. 
The wedding will take place late in January. Mr. and Mrs. Bonjean will reside in Springfield, 111., where the gi-oom is engaged in the practice of law. 
Miss MacBride, junior in the Col­lege of Arts at Ohio State University and a member of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority, attended St. Joseph Academy and was graduated from St. Mary's Academy, Notre Dame, Ind. In 1930 she was junior prom queen at Notre Dame. 
Mr. Bonjean attended Notre Dame for three years and was graduated from the College of Law at the Uni­versity of Illinois, where he was a member of Phi Alpha Delta, legal fra­ternity. 
I Deaths 
The ALUMNUS regrets to announce the death of JOHN W. FOBBING, '00, Albany, N. Y. 
JOHN W . FOBBING, '00 
"He was a Notre Dame man" 

No details have been received by the Alumni Office, but according to a telegram from the Club Mr. Forbing died on December 16, two hours after a Rockne Memorial dinner at which he presided. Funeral services were held Saturday, December 19, and burial was in Kenton, Ohio. 
With the passing of Mr. Forbing, the Alumni Association loses one of its most valued and loyal members. He was very active in alumni and university affairs, was at one time Secretary of the Notre Dame Club of the Capital District, and at the time of his death was President of the Club. Mr. Forbing was also serving as District Chainnan for the Rockne Memorial Association of the Capital District and as such had done splendid work for the Memorial. 
Notre Dame will miss him. 
The Association extends sympathy to Rt. Rev. Bishop John F. Noll, of Fort Wayne, and an honorai-y alum­nus of Notre Dame, '15, on the death of his father December 19; to JO­SEPH SCALES, '30, whose mother died recently, and TED WEISBECK­ER, ex '28, on the deatli of his mother. 
Mr. Hubert MacManus, aged 24, died in Detroit Wednesday evening, December 9. Profound sympathy and prayers from faculty and University to Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE MAC­MANUS, LL.D. '14, and their sur­viving son, John. 
Marriages 

Right in the middle of the Rockne Memorial Drive, the Sino-Japanese war, the depression and the trading of Hack Wilson, what does ART WEINRICH, '19, do, but step up and get married. And if you are dubious about the wedding having taken place on November 21, just because you saw him at the Southern California game, your skepticism is without foundation. It took place on the morning of that game in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. The sacrament was ministered by Father Gene Burke, who was one of Art's best friends during his years at Notre Dame. And the very charm­ing young lady you saw with Art that afternoon was the former Miss Eliza­beth Hawkey. A wedding breakfast was served at the La Salle Hotel im­mediately following the ceremony. 
After the game. Art and his bride left for the east where they looked over the cities of Cleveland, Phila­delphia, Washington and New York. Whether or not the cities were visited in that order, they managed to be in New York for the Army game, there­by establishing something unique in the way of honeymoon; seeing a Notre Dame team defeated twice within eight days. 
Art and Mrs. Weinrich are living at 8148 Ellis Avenue on the South Side.—Quad Wrangle. 
Judge and Mrs. Walter Tanner, of Wickliffe, Ky., announce the marriage of their daughter, Dixie, to CHARLES SHERIDAN (RED) WELLS, '31, at Union City, Tenn., on August 20th. Rev. F. J. Gettdfinger performed the ceremony. 
Mrs. Wells is a graduate of. the technical branch of Louisville School of Medicine. "Red" and his wife are living in the Fredrick Apartments, Paducah, Ky. 
Another Thanksgiving day wedding just reported is that of BUS IRWIN 
(C. J., Jr.), ex '29, to Miss Katherine McDonald. The ceremony was read at St. Joseph's Church in Buffalo. The item comes from Gord Bennett. 
REUNION IN JUNE 
Fifty-Year Jubilee of 1882 
Kev. Francis Boeres, C.S.C, chaplain of the Cathedral High School, Indianapolis, is the only surviving member of the Class of 1882 listed in the Alumni Office, although there are un­doubtedly living non-graduates of the Class who will be most welcome... June 3, -1 and 5. 
Word also from Gordon Bennett that ED J. LUTZ, '23, married JGss Estelle Stone Davis on Thanksgiving Day at the Immaculate Conception Church, Buffalo, N. Y. 
On November 23, Miss Margaret Mary Horan, Lafayette, Ind., became the bride of Mr. ROBERT J. MOHL­MAN, '28, in St Mary's Church, Lafayette. Rev. D. L. Monahan read the service. 
Immediately following the ceremony breakfast was served to twenty guests in the Lincoln Lodge. Mr. and Mrs. Mohlman departed for a motor trip and are at home in the Varsity Apart­ments in West Lafayette. 
Mrs. Mohlman is a graduate of Purdue University with the Class of '28 and a member of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority. 
Bob attended Purdue where he be­came a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. He finished his education at Notre Dame and was graduated from the College of Law in '28. He is now practicing his profession in Lafayette. 
The marriage of Miss Lillian Ded­rick. South Bend, daughter of Mrs. Marie Dedrick, of Milwaukee, Wis., and JAMES KENNETH QUALLEY, '28, Hotel LaSalle, South Bend, took place at eight o'clock, December 28, in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame. "The ceremony was performed by Rev. Jo­seph McGuire and the attendants were Miss Virginia Qualley and MICHAEL CUREY, '26. 
A wedding breakfast was served in the Hotel LaSalle following the cere­mony. 
Mrs. Qualley, who is a teacher i* the Perley school. South Bend, was graduated from the Milwaukee Teach­ers' College. Ken is a graduate of Columbus Preparatory School, Sioux Falls, S." D., and Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Qualley are at home in the Hotel LaSalle, South Bend. 
Miss Mary Muessel, South Bend, became the bride of FRANCIS MOR­TON MESSICK, '30, South Bend, at a quiet ceremony performed Christ­mas afternoon, in St. James Episcopal Church with the Rev. Lawrence C. Ferguson officiating. 
Miss Hester Muessel, sister of the bride, was the only attendant, and Dailey Roberts served as best man. 
Mr. and Mrs. Messick left for a short trip and are at home in the Tri­more Apartments, South Bend. 
{  Personals  I  
«  •  
191 2  
B. J. Kaiser, 324 Fourth Ave.,  

Pittsburgh, Pa. 
ALFREDO SANCHEZ, a civil en­gineer, Av. Amsterdam Num. 295, Mexico City, writes a short letter accompanying a contribution to the Living Endowment Fund, with the good news that he is planning on re­turning to Notre Dame for the 1932 Commencement and hoping to meet a number of '12 Classmates here on that occasion. With '07, '08, '09, '10 and '11 having special reunions, where could '12 meet better? 
1922 
Gerald Ashe, 1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester, N. Y. 
Headline honors this month deserv­edly go to JOHN PAUL CULLEN whose book "Hdlo, Wisconsin!" has already evoked much favorable com­ment. This book, which is printed by the Meador Publishing Company of Boston, comprises several short stories mostly of town life in Wisconsin, wherein boyhood characters are ad­mirably pictured by the author. We suspect that most of the stories des­cribe John Paul's personal experi­ences around Janesville, his old home town. John Paul, besides being a graduate of N. D., holds a degree from George Washington University, where he is now doing post graduate work. 
PETE ECKERLE is with the Ken­tucky State Highway Commission, 
STEVE CARMODY, having bnild­ed everything necessary in the state of Illinois, has moved his construction company to Mississippi, intending to improve somewhat on Eddie Byrne's realm. 
FRANK BLOEMER'S beloved Louisville could not hold him the week-end of the Southern California game. Certainly he saw the game as did his fellow townsman, CORNIE PFEIFFEE. Both OK'd the new buildings at school and promised to return for Commencement in June. TUFFY HART represented Cleveland and after the game was quoted as saying he had never seen a football game before, and many others thought the same. We were delighted to see 
REUNION IN JUNE 
Dix Plan 1889-1890-1891-1892 
There are plenty of young old-timers in this group to make things interesting for themselves and the campus at large on June 3, 4 and 3. This group contains the names of men famous in the history of Notre Dame, famous in the na­tion. Notre Dame is looking forward, as they must be, to their reunion. 
VINCE HANRAHAN from Buffalo, also JERRY DIXON and WILF DWYER who have regular attendants at Notre Dame games since the days when Charlie Butterworth, RALPH DUMPKE, and WALTER O'KEEFE used to perform gratis in front of Corby barracks. 
Father JOE EICK, C.S.C, is a mis­sionary in Bengal. 
If you missed the Southern Cal. game you missed EARL WALSH who was getting a few pointers for his own team—Des Moines Catholic Col­lege at Des Moines, Iowa. 
Reports are due from CYEIL GAFFNEY, PETE LISH, JERRY BARRETT, and HUGHIE GIBBONS. There are no citations for modesty bestowed by this department. 
1928 
Louis Buckley, Box 73, Notre Dame, Ind, Following is another section from the famous BUCKLEY chain letter. 
James J. Conmey, 601 West 115th Street, New York City 
or Care Millett, Roe & Co., 120 Broadway, New York City. 
Have been working for a New York Stock Exchange firm since I graduat­ed. Do not know how much longer, as business has been terrible for two years. Not married, but I am con­tinuing to step out often enough, so I may be by the time we have the Class Reunion—I certainly intend to be back for the Eeunion in 1933. I will try to make a football game in South Bend this fall. Had a long letter from ART DENCHFIELD, National City Bank, Montevideo, Uruguay, S. 
A. He likes the life there and in­fluenced his sister to come down and work there. All of the fellows here in New York are getting along fine so far. 

I am sending this on to BILL LEAHY, St. Louis, so he and CAR­ROLL PINKLEY may let somebody know how they are! 
WILLIAM H. LEAHY, Jr., 5519 Clemens Avenue, St. Louis, Mo. Have ing for the Shell Petroleum Corpora­tion, Shell Building, 13th and Locust Streets, St. Louis, Mo., between the hours of eight and four-thirty. Don't forget, Louie, that Shell gas gives plenty of mileage betiveen Mishawaka and South Bend. Unless something happens will be back for the reunion in '33 with bells on. 
The Notre Dame Club of St. Louis is taking on a new lease of life. New officers were elected — LEO SUT­LIFFE , Football Manager in '24, be­ing elected President, and BOB HELLRUNG, '30, Secretary and Treasurer. We're looking for big things. 
I'll let "PINK" give his version of all the other news, if there is any. 
J. CARROLL PINKLEY, 5519 Clemens Avenue, Ct. Louis, Mo. Have been working in the Industrial Service Department of the First National Bank, Broadway and Locust Streets, since last August. Answer "No" to question number three. Here's hop­ing that nothing happens to prevent my attendance at the reunion in '33 for I'm certainly planning on it. 
As for question six and the "news," I'm sorry that I can't add anything— my main source of information in that line is the '28 column of the ALUM­NUS. More power to you, Louie! Think this is a dandy scheme that you have inaugurated. 
I'll turn this over to JERRY De-CLERC Q and he will most probably send you the latest copy of intestinal X-rays that his company publishes— 
REUNION IN JUNE Silver Jubilee of 1907— June 3-4-3 

With eight popular members of the Order, including the genial Father General, as a nucleus, this Class of 1907 ought to hold a record breaker. Besides the clergy, the Class boasts of a personnel that could put life into a museum — Pat Malloy, Ambros e O'Connell, Matt Kenefick, Tom Tobin, Doc McCarty, Ed O'FIynn, et al. 
REUNION IN JUNE 
Dix Reunions of 1908-1909­1910-1911 

If 1907 shows any- tendency to slow up during those June days, the Classes that "knew them when" will be right there to supply whatever is needed. These are the Classes whose members are now in their hy­pothetical prime, as alumn i lives are measured. Individual­ly, the ALUMNUS knows it to be true. Collectively, wait un­til June. 
with the advice to "eat more Fleisch­man's Yeast!" 
JEROME C. DeCLERCQ, 1521 W. Kilbum, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Have been working for Standard Brands, Incorporated, as office manager of Milwaukee Division located at 1224 
N. 12th St. Am not married so can­not answer any more of question No. 
3. This also lets me out of question No. 4. 
I am planning on being back home for the reunion in 1933 and sincerely hope nothing interferes to keep me from it. The Milwaukee-N. D. Club is off to a good start now and we sure have a great bunch when we all get together. FATHER JOHN KELLY has been in a sanitarium in Milwau­kee for the past couple of months and we all have seen quite a bit of him. He is a good fellow. 
Louie, I like your idea iine and am passing this on today to HUD JEF­FERYS in fronton, Ohio. Good luck. 
HUDSON JEFFERYS, First Na­tional Bank Bldg., Ironton, Ohio—It isn't very often one gets a chance to blow his own horn and get a nice Special Delivery invitation to do it. 
However, I'm in Ironton and live in Hanging Rock, Ohio, and am in my own business and don't forget that the depression has reached us down here on the Ohio, remote as our location is. 
And no, Louie, I'm not married, have no children, and with God and Andrew Mellon permitting, I'll be at the reunion in 1933, if it's still safe to get within 100 miles of Chicago. 
I see JOE RIGNEY quite often, PAULSHIBEN ('27) once in a while, NORB SEIDENSTICKER less often. JOE is a lawyer in Chillicothe; SHI­BEN is in the law business in "Toledo, and NORB works with a paper com­pany in Chillicothe. And yea can bet that being big social men comes under the head of amusement with those three. 
I'm sending this on to RALPH NOLAN in Joplin, Mo., who really can tell you things. Best regards, etc. 
RALPH L. NOLAN, 430 N. Pearl St., Joplin, Mo. The last couple of years I have been the airport man­ager, chief pilot and president of Joplin Airways, Inc., which all keeps me pretty busy most of the time. 
I've been an old married man since Oct. 17, 1929. Have acquired quite a few gray hairs, but don't know whether flying or being married has caused i t My wife's name was Betty Dolan—being rather a lazy person I found a girl who only needed one let­ter in her name changed. I am the proud father of a five-month old boy, who from all indications will be mak­ing touchdowns for old N. D. in about twenty years. 
Sure, I intend to be back for the reunion in '33. 
Can't tell you any news about other '28 men, because there aren't any around here. The only Notre Dame man I saw very much here in Joplin was COYNE HATTON (Class '26). Several days ago a drunken gangster bumped into Coyne as he was walk­ing down the street. He shoved him away and this bum shot three bullets into Coyne's heart before he knew what had happened. That's not very cheerful news to put in here, but thought some of the class of '26 may read this in the ALUMNUS. 
This chain letter is a good idea, Louie, and I will send it on to BOB EVANS in Vicksburg, Miss., who could write a longer theme at N. D. than the whole class of '28 combined.. BOB may be able to condense his "Life of an N. D. Grad" do\vn to a 
REUNION IN JUNE 

The Five-Year Round-Up of the Class of 1927 
These are the boys who just about had time to dig in eco­nomically before the depres­sion, and the ALUMNUS an­ticipates a Thanksgiving serv­ice for the Class as a part of the Reunion. If their Reunion is as much bigger as their DOME was, the facilities of St. Mary's will have to be borrowed for the overflow. 
mere 5,000 words since he is not get­ting a grade on it. 
ROBERT F. EVANS, Jr., 3421 Washington St., Vicksburg, Miss.—I am working for the Mississippi Lum­ber Co., Vicksburg, Miss., in the ca­pacity of a bookkeeper—making the best of that Commerce Sophomore knowledge. 
I was married on June 5, 1930, to Miss Anatalia Mulvihill of Vicksburg. I stopped by Notre Dame while on my honeymoon, Louie, and I was sorry I missed seeing you. I saw BILL JONES though and heard all about you. 
CHARLES DUCEY, '28, Boy Guid­ance department, was here last week, and we had a very enjoyable day to­gether. He was on his way to New Haven, Conn. 
I don't know much N. D. news right now Louie, but maybe some dope on some Vicksburg N. D. men might be in order. SAM ROMANO, '28, is at Johns Hopkins right now, and VETO CANIZARO, '29, is also off at school studying to be a doctor. BILL ADAMS, '26, is ready to let these other two boys help give him more business, as he is practicing phar­macy, while LAWRENCE HENNES­SEY is in the insurance business. JOHN TIEENEY, '29, is a teacher at the boys' Catholic high school here, and BILL MILLER, '30, is Assistant Secretary of the Chamber of Com­merce. 
Well, after what RALPH NOLAN said about the length of my writing I guess I had better close down for this time, Louie, with the hope that I will be with you and all the others at the reunion in 1933. 
I think this chain letter is a fine idea, Louie, and without delay I am sending this grroup of letters on its way to KIRWIN WILLIAMS. 
KIRWIN WILLIAMS, "Tex."—I was very glad to get this chain letter from ROBERT EVANS and to read some of the other fellows' life history since leaving Notre Dame. It looks to me that BOB must have read my other letter and, therefore, figured I should be given another chance. 
Since I previously answered all the questions—and business is getting worse, I had better sign oif, or this chain letter will begin losing its respect. So, I am sending this letter to FRANCIS STROHM, who is close by and will be able to send it to you, Buckley, in order that you can get it in time for the June ALUMNUS. 
FRANK STROHM, 18 Griswold St., Delaware, Ohio. Sorry that this letter will not reach you before June 3, but I did not receive it from TEX WILLIAMS until today. 
At present am an examiner for the Tax Commission of Ohio and am working in Northeastern Ohio around Canton and Youngstown. My only permanent address is Delaware, Ohio, as I am kept moving about most of the time. Have not yet fallen into the abyss of matrimony and doubt if I will for some time yet. I notice that RALPH NOLAN has gotten a real "flying" start in life. 
Will be back for the reunion unless something very unusual happens. Will also be out for the Southern Cali­fornia game next fall. This vicinity is full of Notre Dame grads. See quite a bit of CHICK McGUCKIN and the rest of the Akron boys of '27, '28, and '29. Have been playing golf two or three times a week with ED SEYMOUR, ex-'28. Some of the old Freshman Hall boys will probably re­member him. 
This chain letter idea of yours is certainly a dandy and I am sure the results will be appreciated by every­one in the class. Hope it continues to be successful. 
The following item was sent to the Editor by CHARLEY McDERMOTT: "As the successor of Mr. Diefender­fer (Ed. Note: Just resigned after four years on the Bethlehem, Pa., school board) the Bethlehem news­paper fraternity was honored in the election of LEO R: McINTYRE, mem­ber of the repertorial staif of the Bethlehem Globe-Times, and a grad­uate of Notre Dame University in journalism. He was nominated by Directors Dr. L. C. Ziegler and Vice-President L. J. Broughal, and was elected unanimously." 
A paragraph, "The evening school class in meal planning and prepara­tion . . . will be continued . . ." is a significant follow-up of the news of Leo's election. Charley's notation, "Local boy makes good," is heartily subscribed to by the Editor. 
1930 
Bernard W. Conroy, 1038 Park Ave. New York City 

First off, and affecting the vital statistics of the Class and the morals of the magazine, ED NEBEL writes to disclaim any children in the Nebel family, a recent announcement having come from some crossed wires. The Editor feels confident that BERNIE will join him in accepting Ed's state­ment as the more authentic and ex­pressing our mutual regret to the Nebels at this column's somewhat promiscuous playing of the serious game of Stork. The ALUMNUS has no desire to pattern its home and fire­side news after the Broadway Muck­ing Bird. 
JOHN NANOVIC is doing some good work for Notre Dame and the Rockne Memorial through the columns of Tlie Falcon, English supplement of Katolicky Sokol, which John is edit­ing. 
A letter from BERNIE brings, as always, a few brief flashes of '30 men, breaths from the four minds: 
"Here are a few notes for the ALUMNUS: ED LAVIN is working in Olyphant, Pa., as a mine superin­tendent. GIL PRENDERGAST of Harrisburg has been studying law at National University in Washington. 
"BILL O'REILLY is with Standard Statistics here in New York. FRED DAVIS has been selling telephones in Westchester County for the New York Telephone Co. JOE LORDI is on the sales force of Morrow's Vanilla Extract Co. Joe is keeping in shape by playing a little handball at the 
N. Y. A. C. every day. 
"JERRY PARKER has taken a position with the E. H. Edwards Co., candy manufacturers in Brooklyn. 
"You might mention that LARRY JOHNSON, RAY REARDON, SPIKE ENGLAND and HARRY BUS­SCHER are all attending law school at N. D. (Yes, Bernie, the Alumni Ofiice knows that. Reardon and Kegowicz flipped a coin for the Edi­tor's last cigar, and, with Busscher, form a musketeer trio who practice their repartee for the girls in the Ofiice before risking it on Ave. Mich.) 
"HARRY FRANCIS, DAN BAR­TON, JIMMY MALLOY, PAT GOG­GIN, JOHN PREECE, and many others, were on hand for the Army game. 
1931 
John E. Boland, 1402 Linden, Scranton, Pa. 

Not hearing from JOHN BOLAND is probably just another evidence of Old Man Depression and his member­ship in the Class of '31. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK CARIDEO appear in South Bend occasionally. Frank is doing some writing this win­ter to supplement his coaching activi­ties at Purdue. 
EMIL TELFEL was an interesting and interested visitor in the Office not long' since on his way to Texas to wrestle steers or steer wrestlers or some such Telfelian pursuit, always with pen in hand or behind ear. 
If all the benefits advertised accrue from employment by the Curtiss Pub­lishing Co., it is no wonder JOE WILK looked so pleased with even this 1931 world on a recent in-and­out at the Ofiice. 
THE NOTRE D A ME 
ALUMNUS 
VOLUME X NUMBERS 5-6 
February-March, 1932 
THE LIVING ENDOWMENT, A LETTER FROM REV. CHARLES L. O'DONNELL, C.S.C. 
OUR ALUMNI ASSOCIATION, IF ANY! (AN EDITORIAL) 
FACULTY MEMBERS BROADCAST EDUCATIONAL SERIES FROM WSBT 
THE COST OF PREPAREDNESS BY CAPT. ROBERT RIORDAN, '24 
Published by THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
OF T H E U N I V E R S I T Y OF NOTRE DAME 





