The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
• NCTCC DAME ALUMNUS 

Vol. 25 OCTOBER, 1947 No. 5 
'0 The Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley (South Bend area) was the first club to participate actively in the work of the Notre Dame Foundation. Here, at a report desk in the Oliver Hotel, Albert McGann, '21, makes a return to Florence Myers, secretary. At the left, left to right, are John E. Mclntyre, '31, club president, B. J. Voll, '17, local chairman for the Foundation, and E. M. Morris, '06, local vice-chairman. Scores of other alumni are assisting in achieving the Foundation's aims. 
'1^^ :# 


rOtlNDATiON DESK­
STJosephVailes/Club' REPORT HCRr 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Notre Dame Foundation 


City Chairmen 
(as of Oct. 14, 1947) 
State City Chairman Year Stale City Chairman Year 
Arizona -Fhoenij -Robert D. Kendall -3 1 Minnesota -Brainen -Joseph R. Dunn —77 -Tucson--James Murphy —•32 
„"38 -Minneapolii -Gerald F. Conway -New Ulm--Dr. Otto J. Seifert Arkansas -Lillle Rock--Aristo Brizzolara -13 -Rochester—. -Gilbert Ulz _S L Ooud Raymond J. Conrad "21 
California--Los Angeles--Terence B. Cosgrove . -•06 
_St. Paul Robert Rogers '43 Colorado. -Denve -Joseph A. Craven -•20 
_Waseca Daniel M. Coughlin •22| 
-Pueblo--A. R. Thomas Mississippi--Jackson James T. Canizaro ^28 -Vicksburg -Lawrence H. Hennessy ^27 
Florida--Jacksonville--George P. Coyle, Sr. 
MissourL -St. Louis & . Lakeland -Joseph E. Kecfe -•29 Suburbs -Dr. Bertrand D. Coughlin "26 
-Lauderdale -Robert H. Gore -•40 -Miami _Wm. H. McCormick -•32 Nebraska -George C. Wanek ^40 _PaIm Beach -John R. Butler -:i7 -Columbus--Lester J. Carrig -•28 _St. Augustine -Julian G. Atwater -•43 -Ponca--Francis B. Hurley --•26 —Tampa -John P. Lawler -•44 -Omaha--Eugene P. Melady -•91 
Georgia--Atlanta--Alfred R. Abrams -•21 Nevada--Reno -M. A. Diskin -•07 New Hampshire Dover -Thomas H. Keenan ­
Idaho--Boise--Jess B. Hawley, Jr '^b 
Manchester--Francis J. Hand '30 Illinois--Chicago & 
New Jersey--Newark -Joseph M. Byrne, Jr. •IS Suburbs 
Arch B. Ward __ -•20 Frank H. Murphy . -•22 New Mexico Albuquerque--Louis C. Lujan ^24 
-Peoria New York Buffalo -Alfred C. Ryan _ 70 
Indiana nderson-Elmo A. Funk -•11 -New York Frank C. "Walker' 
^09 -Evaiuville -Ralph F. Heger —. -•25 North Dakota -Bismarck--William Paul Webb ...•47 -Fort Wayne--Thomas A. McKieman -•27 -Fargo--John Gerald Nilles --•44 -Gary— _C. W. Bader —; -.•19 -MinoU -Dr. E. G. DeMots _ 
-Hammond -Timothy P. Galvin -•16 -Elkha -Robert E. Proctor -.•04 
*Ohio 
-Indianapolis--Waller J. Stuhldreher _ -.•22 -Kokorao -Mark E. Zimmerer -•21 Oklahoma -Tulsa--Walter B. Moran -•24 -Lafayette--Charles L. Vaughn -•14 
Oregon -Pordasd--Hon. Frank J. Lonergan -•04^ -LaPorte -F. Clarence Bunce -•25 
- Loganspo rt -James E. Digan ..•29 
Pennsylvani: ilenlown -Leo R. Mclnlyre -78 -Michigan City_ -Mark Sloren -•22 -Harrisbui -Joseph R. Farrell -•15 
-Muncie —Thomas A. Cannon -•33 -Philadelphia -Daniel H. Young -72 -Notre Dame_ -James E. McCarthy -Erie--George Mead -77 -Plymouth -Marshall F. Kizer 1^30 -Pittsbur) -Dr. Leo O^Donnell -•17 
-Richmond -Norman B. Jenkins -•25 -South Bend -Bernard J. Voll -•17 
Rhode Island Newporl -James J. Connell •14 Ptovidence--Paul D. Hoeffler -7 5 -Terre Haute— -Louis F. Keifer -•16 ?awtucket_ -Leo R. McAloon -•30 -Vincennes -James D. McQuaid -3 1 John J. McLaughlin -•34 
-Whiting -Ray Schaub -•17 South Carolin. Francis A . Santos _*41 
-Davenport -Jerome C. Arnold -•24 -Dubuque -Joseph Rhomberg -•22 South Dakota T . C. Kasper -7 1 -Moline (III.) -John Ralph Coryn -•22 
Tennes! Frank Howland -7 5 
-Rock Island (III.). —Edmund J. Meagher -•21 Thomas McNicholas -•29 
Kansi -Leavenworth -Daniel F. Foley -•23 Texas--Beaumont--Clyde E. Broussard --•13 -Wichita -Anton A. Rosenberger -•07 -Corpus Christi--James J. Meaney -•41 -Topeka -Walter A. Stevens -•05 -Fort WorA--James Record -•04 -Salina -Norbert F. Skelley -•25 -Port Ardiur -Christie C. Flanagan .7 8 
Maryland -Harold A. Williams -•38 Utah--Salt Lake City--John W. Gallivan ^37 
Washinglon--Sealtk -John P. English 35 
Massacjiuselts--Lawrence--James R. Dooley — -•22 -Hyannis--Vincent D. O'Neill —•32 *WisconsiiL_ -Louis H. Hamilton , — -Brockton--Hugh F. Blunt —•24 H. M. Benstead (Co-Chairman) -Pembroke -Frederick C. Solari, Jr. "36 
Wyoming--Qieyenne--James Gordon Murphy •37J| 
-Worcester -Edward McGauley ^28 -Springfield -Hon. William J. Granfield —•13 
38 States t04aties 102 City Chairmen 
-Lovirell -Chester P. McDonald '27 
* Slate Govemon have a diorou^ program in a tentative slate of -Harry F. Kelly "17 developmcBL 
*Midugai -Thomas F. Van Aarle "21 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
itO 
This raasazine is published bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiaiuu Entered mf feeood dmia mftter Octo­ber 1, 1939, at the Fostoilice, Notre Dame, Indiana, under the act of August 24, 1912. Ifember of the American Ahimiii Comcfl. 
James E. Anasbong, '25, Editor; WiUiam B. 0ool«7, '2S. Managing Editor 
Vol. 25 OaOBER, 1947 No.5 
More Than 100 City Chairmen In Action 
Foundation Entering Vital Local Program Status; 
Alumni Participation in 1947 First important Step; 
Non-Graduate Alumni Major immediate Objective 
^ ^ The chart of City Chaimien on the oppo­site page is a more eloquent testimonial to the success of the University of Notre Dame Foundation to date than any words that might be written. 
Nation-wide acceptance by outstanding alumni of the responsibilities of the impor­tant post in their communities is the sec­ond great victory of the Foundation pro­gram. It is needless to add that when you read this there will be many more such Chairmen. Governors have been working constantly, and a number of key cities not included arc omitted because Governors in the key States have, in several instances, insisted on personal visits to these cities to enlist first-hand the active participation of the Chairmen of their choice. 
Many of the Chairmen, conspicuous for their qualifications, have required no more than the fact that the University needed 
^^hem, to accept. 
Fiist Step—100% Graduates Local Clubs—notably Fort Wayne and the St. Joseph Valley—have been a stimulus to the local front organization by their prompt acceptance of the responsibility for the first phase of the 1947 Foundation program. This—President Hogan has called it most aptly "cultivating our own garden"—is the enlistment of the 100 per cent participation by alumni in the support of Notre Dame. It includes the giving by alumni who had not yet given in 1947, and the giving of more in many instances by those who were al­ready enlisted in the Fifth Annual Alumni Fund. Second Step—100% Non-Graduates The second great step in which the Clubs are aiding the City Chairmen is in the en­listment of the interest and the active sup­port of that great group of non-graduate former students of Notre Dame. Many of ^bes c men have been enrolled in the Alumni T^sociation over the years. But many have not. Many have been active in the Local 
Alumni Clubs. But many have been outside the Club areas. 
It is common knowledge however that among, this group are to be found interest and loyalty as great as any displayed by graduates. Many of the non-graduates went elsewhere for their profesional degrees, and appear in their communities as leaders in legal and medical circles. A number left Notre Dame for financial reasons, and know first-hand why the University is trying to avoid increasing its costs to students with the consequent depriving of opportunity for many able young men. 
And the non-graduate who was a victim of the disciplinary phase of Notre Dame is frequently the first to recognize in his mature years the value of this very factor in the training of responsible leadership. 
Add to these groups the many fine Notre Dame men whose academic careers were in­terrupted by World Wars I and II and the value of the all-out effort to include every Notre Dame man in the new program is evi­dent. Especially since the program goes far beyond the hope of financial support, into 
FBANK C. WALKER. '09 New Yotic Citr ehaumaa 

the realm of applied leadership, of stronger 
spiritual and intellectual relationships be­
tween the University and our alunmi. 
Typifr BesponsibU Leodeialiip 

The caliber of the City Chairmen is ob-• vious from even a cursory look at the chart of organization. And since the whole Foun-: dation program hinges ultimately on the local level, where the direct contact with alumni and friends of Notre Dame will tell the story in reflected financial support, the propriety of this mobilization of our best' leadership at the community level is appar­ent. The University, the officers of the Foundation, and the State Governors, have been greatly encouraged by the prompt ac­ceptance of the Foundation both by Chair­men and by Local Alumni Clubs. 
DotiUa-BaiTeled Benefaeloia 

Under the Foundation, every Notre Dame man is a double-barreled benefactor. Aimual giving by alumni is the first natural rcsr. ponse to the needs of Notre Dame. Notre Dame men know best, and will gain most, froni the University's Program. It was on the basis of the success of the Annual Alumni Fund that the Foundation plan took shape. 
Thhrd Step—100% Frienda 

The second barrel is the third phase of the Foundation program. It was summed up by Father Cavanaugfa at Commencement, when he advised that alumni would not be asked to gjivt so much as to get. In other words you will be not only a buyer but a seller. 
And this field too has been tested. In the Department of Public Relations (and you have read reports in the ALUMNDS accord-. ingly) are the records of a substantial num-' ber of non-alumni friends of Notre Dame, who, without pressure or ivithout fanfare, have given generously to the Univenity.' 
It was on this second base that the Foun~ 
-~^^a>^T^^^M«.»» 

mmmmtmammmmmmammgm 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Present at Notre Dame for the meeting of city chaitmen and dub pretidents from fridiona were, front row, left to right: Harry 
G. Hogan, Ft Wayne, J. Arthur Haley, Bev. John I. Cavonaugh. CS.C, and BeT. Bobert H. Sweeney. C.S.C.. all of Notre Dame. Rob­ert E. Proctor, Elkhart C. W. Bader, Gary. Mark Storen, Michigan City, and Williom L. Travis. Hammond. Second row: James E. Armstrong. Notre Dame, J. Leo Grace, Eokomo, Paul Sagstetter. Ft Wayne. James E. Digda. Xogonsport louis F. Keifer. Terre Haute, Walter J. Stuhldreher and Patrick J. Fisher, Indianapolis, Bay A. Scfaaub. Whiting, and Dean James E. McCarthy, Notre Dame. Back row: Emmeti Ferguson, Lafayette, Thomas A. Caimon. Muncie, Norman B. Jealdos. Bichmond. Thomas A. McKieman. Ft Wayne. John E. Mclniyre, South Bend, Marshall F. Kizer, Plymouth, Bernard T. Keams. Ft Wayne, and Francis D. Meyer. Hommond. 
dation took shape as a major, over-all, fund­raising program, larger than the Alumni Fund, embracing the many-sided phases of the problems and the programs of Notre Dame. 
But the group of non-alumni friends as we now have them listed is small. We knoiv that in every community in this country there are men and women who believe in the things for which Notre Dame stands, and who would be only too willing to in­vest in the promotion of those ideals and objectives if they knew the proper chan­nel. The Foundation supplies that channel. 
So from the State Governor, from the City Committee, and from you, Notre Dame's list of sustaining friends %vjll grow constantly. That is why the program is not a short, fireworks type of effort. The devel­opment of alumni and non-alumni giving has been cumulative. The Foundation pro­grram will be cumulative. But with 200 or more Committees of five (or more) in every key city, the cumulative process will in­ivitably be more intensive, and the many opportunities of Notre Dame will reach ear­lier realization. 
The City Committee and You 

Concurrent with the appointment of the City Chairman comes the final organization 
, step, the appointment of the City Commit­tee. On this Committee there is room for the active interested aliminus. There is room for the non-graduate alumnus. There is room for the parent of Notre Dame students or alumni, (who has evidenced a most tan­^ble faith in the Universit>' by entrusting his son to its training) and there is room for the friend of Notre Dame. 
You can speed up the oisanization of these vital Committees. You can volunteer, if you will, yourself. You can call the City Chairman's attention to the non-graduate, the parent or the friend whom you know to be interested. 
But all—whether officially in the Com­mittees or not—can be Foundation workers, donors to Notre Dame, salesmen for Notre Dame. 
No better incentive can be offered than 
ABCH WABD. '21 Chicogo Chairman 

the words of Father Cavanaugh to a City Cchirman, "Whatever you do for Notre Dame, remember that Our Lady will never be outdone in generosity." 
CITY COMMITTEES NAMED 

As the ALUMNUS went to press, the following City Committees had been appoint­ed by the City Chairmen of the Notre Dame Foundation: 
DALLAS, TEXAS—Thomas E. Braniff^ chairman; Patrick Buell, B. F. McLain, jW 
W. Simmons, Arthur Hughes, David Cowdin, . 
J. J. Shea, WJUiam J. Brown, Gerald Culli­nan, Henry Newhoff, James M. Haggar, Joseph B. Fleming, Joseph C. Thompson, Jr. 
ST. LOUIS, MO.—Dr. Bertrand D. Coughlin, '26, chairman; Richard Mucker-man, Firmin Fusz, Walter George, Al. Ravarino. 
KOKOMO, INT).-Mark E. Zimmerer, '21, chairman; J. Leo Grace, John Kiley, John Krebser, J. L. Sheerin, G. L. Rathel. ' 
FORT WAYNE, IND. —Thomas A. McKieman, '27, chairman; Donnelly Patrick McDonald, Harry G. Hogan, Richard Nill, 
.John Berghoff. 
" " MEMPHIS, TENN. —Frank Rowland, ,' '25, chairman; C. P. J. Mooney, Jerry Foley, Dorsey Mathis, Lawrence Thompson, Phil Canale, Jr., Louis Barsotti, Neil Farrell, John Montedonico, Michael McCormack, HerbeA Moriarty, Harry Pierotti, Edward F. Barry, Will Carruthers, Wm. Whitman, Sr., Henry „ Slavick. 
Volume 25, No. S, October, 1947 


¥ •%' 
^\ C^' 

This year for the first time registration was concentrated in one spot—^tbe Drill Hall. 4767 studaata war* ragistarad. 
Record Enrollment of 4,767 Begins Year 
Former High Figure Exceeded by 102; Present Registration 
50 Per Cent Above Pre-War Normal; Graduate Has 318 Students—a New High; 50 Men Added to 
.\ new enrollment record of 4,767 students was reached, according to Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., registrar, as Notre Dame began another scholastic year on Sept. 38. 
The enrollment exceeds by 102 the former record, which was set last year. The normal prewar student population of approximately 3,200 has thus been increased about 50 per cent. 
J^ Father Thornton's announcement said that 4,449 o[ the students are undergraduates and that 318 are in the Graduate School—a new high for the latter. About two-thirds of the total are veterans of World War II. 1,274 students reside off the campus. This figfure includes, of course, those who have their homes in the immediate vicinity, as well as many hundreds for whom the overcrowded campus cannot provide accommodations, despite the general doubling up in many rooms. 
Alumni who recall the opening days of school as one long line after another in various parts of the campus would have been pleased to" observe the new simplified regis­tration procedure, carried on for the first time in the ample space of the Drill Hall. The maximum time for registration this year was little more than an hour, as operations for all departments were unified and simpli­fied under one roof. As part of the registra­
tio n procedure, a picture was talcen of each student. Distinguished educators from all parts of the United States, from Canada, South 
.•\mcrica and Europe are included among the 50 new teachers who have been added to the faculty of the University for the 1947-48 schoolyear, it was announced by the Rev. Howard Kenna, Director of Studies. The increase was made necessary by the record enrollment. 
Twent>--five of the total of 50 new faculty members have been added in the College of .'\rts and Letters, eight in the College of Engineering, si.x in the College of Science, four in the College of Commerce, three in the College of Law, three in the Army 
R.O.T.C.
 program, and one in the Naval 

R.O.T.C.
 program. The new faculty appointments include; 


Every student had his picture token OS part o{ the registration procedure. 
 School  Faculty 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERSr Dr. Paul F. Bosco, Detroit, a former major in the Military Intelligence, associate pro­fessor of Modem Languages; Dr. Ludwig Bieler, member of the Royal Irish Academy and Archivist of the National Library of Ireland in Dublin, Eire, assistant professor of Classical Languages; Dr. E. K. Francis, Winnipeg, Canada, assistant professor of Sociology; Dr. John H. Hritzu, of the Col­lege of St. Theresa, Winona, Minn., assistant professor of Classical X,anguages. 
Joseph A. James, of McMurray College, Jacksonville, 111., assistant professor of Modem Languages; Dr. William A. Kozum­plik, of Columbia University, to be assistant professor of Library Science and assistant librarian; Marshall T. Smelser, ol St. Thom­as College, St. Paul, Mimi., assistant pro­fessor of History; Paul M. Stoner, ol the National Housing Agency, assistant profess­or of Economics. 
Russell O'Connor, of the South Bend College of Commerce, to be instructor in Economics: Charles A. Biondo, Mamaro­neck, N. v., instructor in Music; Jack L. Whelan, Toronto, Canada, instructor in Modem Languages; Jean P. Gattichon, asso­ciate editor of VEpoque in Paris, France, lecturer in French Literature; Philip J. DriscoU, of Roxbury, Mass., instructor in English. 
Robert B. Hohman, of Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, part-time instructor itL 
The Notre Dome Alumnus 

English; Dr. Maurice L. Pettit, head of the Department of Public Welfare, South Bend, part-time instructor in Sociology '.Rev. Nich­olas HoTvath, Budapest, Hungarj-, University lecturer in Philosophy. 
Andre Cote, instructor in Philosophy; Kelly Cook, instructor in English; Edward Fisher, assistant professor of Journalism; John T. Frederick, co-author of Reading for Writing and compiler of 34 Present Day Stories, returning to be professor of English; Francis Kunkle, instructor in English; Hugh 
P. O'Brien, director of the Curriculum in 
Correctional  Administration;  and  Richard  
Ames,  instructor in English.  
COLLEGE  OF ENGINEERING:  Aladar  

and Viktor Olgay, twin brothers and noted architects from Budapest, Hungarj-, lecturers in -Architecture; George J. Thaler, of Johns Hopkins Universit>', Baltimore, assistant pro­fessor of Electrical Engineering; Joseph B. Farrell, instructor in Chemical Engineering: Melvin Gelher, instructor in Engineering Mechanics; Burton Rich Miller, assistant professor of Mechanical Engineering; and Michael Snider, assistant professor of Mech­anical Engineering. 
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE: Dr. Albert L. Delisle, of the National University, Madellin, Columbia, S.i\., to be associate professor of Biolog>' and curator of the Edward Lee Greene Herbarium; Dr. Paul Doty, of Co­lumbia University and the Royal Institute, London, England, assistant professor of Chemistry; Dr. Ky Fan, of the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N. J., assistant professor of Mathematics; Dr. Raymond Gutschick, a geologist with the .\luminum Ore Co., Oklahoma City, assistant professor of Geolog>'; Dr. Louis E. DeLanney, assistant professor of Biology; Dr. Edward C. Dodson, instructor in Biologj-. 
COLLEGE OF COMMERCE: Daniel L. Klein, of Ohio State University, instructor in -Accounting; George S. Wallace, of Rutgers (State) University (Jersey Cit>- Division), assistant professor of Finance; Raymond Pellissier, formerly with the Office of Price -Administration in Washington, D. C, in­structor in Finance; and Thomas P. Bergen, of St. Michael's College, Winooski Park, Vt., instructor in Accounting. 
COLLEGE OF LAW: Alfred L. Scanlon, of the Federal Power Commission, Washing­ton, D. C, instructor in Law; John J. Brod­erick, Yonkers, N. Y., instructor in Law; and Robert E. Sullivan, Fort Wayne, Ind., instructor in Law. 
ARMY R.O.T.C. PROGRAM: Lt. Col. Leonard W. Palmer; Maj. Arthur Small; and Capt. Thomas J. Hardy. 
NAVAL R.O.T.C. PROGRAM: Com­mander Bernard Francis McMahon, USN. 
All rectors of the 13 residence halls on the campus were reappointed to serve through the present schoolycar. They are Marilyn Knapp Bauer (left) and leoan* Bodme. o{ the Director oi Studies' office, chedc consul cards. 
the following: Alumni Hall, Rev. Henry G. tian education in order to combat foreign Glueckert, C.S.C: Badin Hall, Rev. Bernard leaders who are "scheming to dedicate whole 
J. Furstoss, C.S.C.; Breen-Phillips Hall, Rev. governments to the destruction of Christian-Frederick M. Gassensmith, C.S.C; Cava-ity." • naugh Hall, Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C; 
"You who are now becoming a part of Dillon Hall, Rev. Francis T. Butler, C.S.C; 
this University-, its latest generation, must Fariey Hall, Rev. Joseph D. Barry, C.S.C; 
understand that there is no real education Howard Hall, Rev. Edward A. Keller, that excludes religion, that excludes God's C.S.C.; Lyons Hall, Rev. Thomas A. Kelly, action, that does not count upon Christ's C.S.C; Morrissey Hall, Rev. Bernard L. 
presence in the soul," Father Cavanaugh McAvoy, CS.C : St. Edward's Hall, Rev. 
told the students. "Christ and Our Lady Joseph N. Gar\'in, C.S.C; Sorin Hall, Rev. 
will do most for you and you must seek Peter P. Forrestal, C.S.C; Walsh Hall, Rev. 
Them in prayer and the sacraments. You George L. Holderith, C.S.C; Zahm Hall, 
must gradually become more and more able 

Rev. Charics I. McCarragher, C.S.C to do something about it. These days are Physical expansion continues on the cam­challenging to the Christian leaders of the pus with two more buildings ready for use 
world. by students in the fall semester. The aero­nautical engineering building, a temporary "Certain foreign leaders are, as we gather 
structure, is situated east of the stadium, here in this Church, scheming to dedicate while the intramural and lecture hall, also whole governments to the destruction of a temporar\- structure, stands just north of Christianity, and within the borders of this Cartier Field. our beloved America men in high positions . 
are this morning trying to remove God and The aeronautics building will house the the precious postulates of -American liberty offices of the Department of Aeronautical from the theory and practices of the govern­Engineering, together with special laboratory ment under which we live. You know the facilities. More than half the building is workings of the principle of cause and effect. 
devoted to an aerodynamics laboratory, con­The ropes woven yesterday and today may taining various operating machines, a wind tomorrow toll the bells at the funeral of tunnel, and other research equipment. 

American civilization." The intramural and lecture hall houses a 
Father Cavanaugh, urging the Notre large auditorium for intramural activities of 
Dame students to look ahead as they began 

the student body, particularly for the student their careers as Christian citizens, em­
activities of Notre Dame's large enrollment phasized that they muct set up ideals "to 
of veterans. have right views of God; to integrate secular -At the Solemn High Mass, Sunday, Sept. history and science, literature and philosophy 21, which marked the formal opening of the with the highest Christian wisdom; to know schoolyear. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, God well and to be conversant with His president, told the faculty and the student ways through personal worship; and to de­body that God-fearing college students of fend and advance His teachings even against today must secure the proper type of Chris­the trend that is in the world." ^ 
A 
^ " ' 
Volume 25, No. 5, October, 1947 
Club Presidents on Campios Nov. 21-22 
Second Annual Local Club Council Is Arranged for Week-end of Tulane Game; Program Will Include Panels on Many Phases 
of Club Operation; Recent Questionnaire Basis of 
On Nov. 21 and 22, the week-end of the Tulane game at Notre Dame, the presidents of Notre Dame clubs from all over the coun­try will meet on the campus to discuss club 
^ activities. A comprehensive program is be­
" ing arranged so that these men will have an opportunity to discuss all phases of club functions. They will be there to gather new ideas and to improve their abilities to man­age local Alumni clubs. 
Our University president. Father John Cavanaugh, is keenly interested in the de­velopment of the Alumni Association, and ;he organization of new alumni clubs, as well as the re-vitalizing of existing alumni clubs. Father Cavanaugh, as well as Harry Hogan, our Alumni Association president, will speak to the group, and will undoubt­edly sit in on some of the discussions of club functions. 
There will be general panel discussions during which six or eight club presidents will be spotlighted while the other men will have a chance to question them openly 
Aabout methods of operation, financing, at­tendance, committees, scholarship funds, etc. About ninety men are expected to be in the entire group. 
Sessions Start Friday Morning 

At luncheon and dinner meetings, the pres­idents will be divided into smaller groups, interested in specific problems such as man­aging football excursions, scholarship funds, Monte Carlo parties, bowling parties. Com­munion breakfasts, etc. 
The business meetings will be held on Friday morning, afternoon and evening, and on Saturday morning, after a special Mass, there will be a closing luncheon and then the Tulane football game. During the entire week-end, the club presidents will be guests of the University and their traveling ex­penses will be paid by the Alumni Associa­tion. 
^ As a result of a recent survey made among club presidents, the strong points as well as the weak spots in clubs have been deter­mined. This survey will furnish a basis for 
By ROBERT T. HELLRUNG.'30 

Vice-President of the Alumni Association 
some very thorough work. For example, the 
sur\;ey shows that, out of the 36 presidents 
that answered a recent questionnaire, only 
four have attendance committees. All of us 
realize the importance of attendance at club 
affairs. We know the need for encouraging 
the newer members to enter into the activ­
ities of the club and get acquainted. The 
Attendance Committee should be a vital 
group in any club. The survey pointed out 
that some clubs offer attendance prizes. 
Other clubs conduct telephone campaigns 
before all meetings to bring the members 
out. This subject is bound to have a thor­
ough going-over during the presidents' 
meetings. 
Scholarship Funds A Stimulus 

Out of the 36 clubs included in the sur­vey, only 11 have scholarship funds. These funds, and the activities in connection with raising money for the funds, have been a definite stimulus to the clubs that have them. A scholarship fund gives a local No­tre Dame club a purpose or a goal, just as Rotary clubs, Kiwanis clubs. Lions clubs and others have projects and enterprises in their communities. Notre Dame clubs need an objective. Some of the larger clubs have raised funds of $8,000 to $10,000 and they add to their funds every year through the proceeds from ticket activities, football trips, dances and other affairs. All clubs should be encouraged to start scholarship funds. 
Communion Sundays have been very im­portant functions of most Notre Dame clubs; with some clubs it is the biggest affair of the year and yet about one-third of the local clubs have not sponsored a Communion Sunday. The Alumni Association has rec­ommended the Sunday closest to the Feast of the Immaculate Conception, Dec. 8, as the logical date for a Communion Sunday and a Communion Breakfast. This year the date will be Sunday, Dec. 7, and it will have double significance, inasmuch as it is the anniversary of Pearl Harbor, as well as the Vigil of the Feast of the Inmiaculate Con­ception. The Blessed Virgfin is the patroness of the United States and Notre Dame. Com­munion Breakfast programs this year will 
 Discussion 
have patriotic themes as well as religious themes. 
Club activities that deal with today's stu­dents at Notre Dame will be spotlighted, especially since more and more of the boys on the campus today are sons of members of Notre Dame's Alumni Association. Local clubs will consider the apixtintment of ad­visory committes to help high school stu­dents of their communities make proper decisions regarding entrance into Notie Dame; i.e., the course of studies best suited for them, the high school credits required for those courses, etc. 
Alimini clubs can encourage campus clubs of students from their locality and cooperate closely, not merely to help the young fellows put on a successftil Christmas dance, for in­stance, but to encourage excellence and lead­ership in these boys while at Notre Dame. 
. One alumni club has recently developed an incentive plan for the boys from its city and surrounding territory, giving some very attractive prizes to those having the best grades, participating in the greatest number of recognized campus organizations and ac­tivities, and showing the best record of achievements. 
The Goal: Complete Programs 

Local Notre Dame clubs, through their job counseling committees can also advise the current graduates who need help re­garding placement in business and indus­try. This completes a tentative program of assistance, first to the high school student desiring a Notre Dame education; second, to the student during his years at the Uni­versity; and third, to the graduate, a new member of a local alumni club. 
Out of all of the discussion, we hope to be able to develop a new and comprhenstve Club Manual as a guide to dub presidents, directors and ofiScers, to enable them to ful­fill the ever increasing needs of the Alumni Association of Notre Dame. The presidents themselves should take home with them a wealth of information that will provide more attractive activities on all fronts. 
'7-2^'^^r-^^':tff^^^i^ggc^^^^^^m^^^^^^^^ 
The Noire Dame Alumnus Rev. William H. Robinson, C. S.C, and . 

NOTRE DAME BOOKS 
TESTING THE SPIRIT, by Rev. FelLv, D. Duffey, C.S.C., Herder, $2.00. 
Father DufTey, who was graduated from Notre Dame in '32 and is now Master of Novices at Sacred Heart Novitiate in South Bend, ^vrote Testing the Spirit primarily for vocational directors in religious communities and candidates for the religious life, but the principles enunciated in the book have value for lay people as well. 
In a review in the July 26 issue, America said of Testing The Spirit: 
"This pioneering book has long been sore­ly needed. It is a pioneering work because for the first time it offers systematic and practical norms for mental hygiene to voca­tional directors in religious communities. It is sorely needed because it stresses in print what all with experience have felt: that the candidate for religious life must have, or must soon acquire, a healthy balance between mind, emotions and will. 
". . . Herein the author treats of 21 possible sources of mental conflict in religious candidates. . . These sore spots tell directors of souls that a candidate needs guidance towards his mental readjustment, that he needs it early in his religious life if later casualities are to be avoided. . . 
"The reader of this work will feel that he is listening to an experienced counselor. The book is replete with spiritual wisdom, the language is crystal clear. Never does the author face a problem without offering a cure; always he is mindful of the value of natural motives and supernatural grace. . ." 
WHY THE CATHOLIC SCHOOL, by Rev. John A. O'Brien, The A\'e Maria Press, Notre Dame, $.15. 
Father O'Brien, professor of philosophy and religion at Notre Dame, points out in this short pamphlet the necessity of maintain­ing a Catholic school system. Not only in­valuable in clearing up foggy Catholic think­ing on the subject, it is also an excellent treatise for non-Catholic objectors who can­not understand why the Church is so in­sistent that its children have a Catholic edu­cation. 
Divided under such chapter headings as "Reli^ous Illiterates," "Christ or Mickey Mouse," "Bulwark of Democracy," and "Culture Alone Does Not Save," this pljun­speaking and readable pamphlet vividly illus­trates how vitally essential a religious educa­tion is for the well-rounded development of youth. 

A specially-annotated edition of the famous encyclical by Pope Pius XI, ON RE­CONSTRUCTING THE SOCIA L ORDER (Quadragesima Anno), has been prepared by Dr. Francis J. Brown, pro­fessor of economics at Notre Dame. 
Three special devices employed in the new edition by Dr. Brown make it unique in its field. The author includes a complete out­line of the encyclical, incorporates the out­line into the text of the encyclical, and has a detailed index. Additional volumes of the Outline Encyclical Series, of which this is the first, are now in publication and are sched­uled to be released within the next three months by the Outline Press Inc., Chicago. 
A small part oi the large attendance at the picnic oi the Bode Biver Valley Club on Aug, 10. Above, the club officers, left to right: Wanen Wahl. secretary. Cliff Hy-land, vice-president, Don Hennessy, presi­dent and Paul Fry, treasurer. 
Below, in lower row, from left: John Ca-hill and Ned Bickford. Top row: Roy Marelli, Doug Grant, Paul O'Neil, Frank Petritz and Buss Van Kyren. 
WABASH VALLEY CLUB DINNER 

Most Rev. John G. Bennett, Bishop of Lafayette, Dr. F. C. Hockema, executive dean of Purdue University, and Rev. John 
H. Murphy, C.S.C, vice-president of No­tre Dame, were special guests and principal speakers as the Wabash Valley Notre Dame Club sponsored a delightful dinner in the Fowler Hotel, Lafayette, on Friday, Oct. 10, the eve of the Purdue-Notre Dame football game. One hundred attended. 
Rev. Archibald M. McDowell, C.S.C, of • the University faculty, both former Lafay­ette, residents, and William R. Dooley, as­sistant alumni secretary, were also present and spoke briefly. Emmett Ferguson, presi­dent of the club, presided. 
The Notre Dame campus film in sound and color was shown following the dinner. Plans were made by the club for partici­pation in Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday on Dec. 7 and in the work of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
WIDOW OF FIRST STUDENT DIES 

Although Notre Dame is 105-years-old, the widow of the University's first student was living until the past summer. She was Mrs. Maude Perley Coquillard who died on Aug. 19 at the age of 92. % 
When Father Sorin came to South Bend, young Alexis Coquillard served as his guide and enrolled as the first pupil in the mission which developed into the University of Notre Dame. Mr. Coquillard later became a South Bend wagon manufacturer. He died Feb. 25, 1890. 
Maude Perley was bom in Portland, Me., Oct. 23, 1854. She came to St. Mar>-'s Academy in 1878 as the guest of.her sister, who had built a cottage near the old acad­emy structure at the suggestion of Father Sorin. 
In 1881 she married Alexis Coquillard, the former Notre Dame student, who was a nephew of Alexis Coquillard, the fur trader and co-founder of South Bend in 1823. 
Three survivors of Mrs. Coquillard are Notre Dame alumni: t\vo sons, Joseph, '00,^b and Alexis, '03, both of South Bend, and a grandson, -•Mexis, '40, of Denver, Colo. 
The Holy Cross Courier of St. Mary's College adds this interesting note regarding Mrs. Coquillard's wake: "When friends gathered to recite the rosary, they found hanging above the bier—as she requested— the copy of Carlo Dolce's Madonna which Father Sorin had had made for her wedding gift and which had hung in her home all these years." 
UND FOUNDAnON NIGHT. 

As this issue of the ALUMNUS goes to press, plans ore being made for a nation­wide University of Notre Dame Foundation Night to be held Wednesday night, Nov. 
5. Coming between the Navy game of NOT. 1 and the Army game of NOT. 8, the night will share the publicity spotlight in series of club get-togethers designed to ii 
'A 

foim club members about the work of the new Foundation. Youll be hearing from your own club more about the Night. 
Volume 25, No. 5, October, 1947 
The trek back to the campus was on again last month, and for the fourth successive semester all attendance records at the Uni­versity were shattered. Despite the record enrollment, the annual registration-line blues sung by the students were at a pitch lower than usual at the beginning of a semester. 
The entire registration procedure was transferred to the Nav>- Drill Hall and less than an hour's wait in line was entailed. Said a Scholastic columnist: "The adminis­tration speeded up the registration process. Modeled after the Studebaker assembly line, the Navy Drill Hall became the short-cut to a college education. Some of the old-timers who brought bo.\ lunches, sleeping bags, and old copies of magazines were amazed to find that the line had not found its way to Niles." Which, for a Scholastic columnist, was practically unadulterated praise. 
Father Coronaugh Opens Year 
The traditional formal opening of the school year occurred on the first Sunday with a sermon at Mass by the president of the University. Father John Cavanaugh told students that strong Christian leader­ship is expected of Notre Dame men to com­bat certain foreign leaders who arc "schem­ing to dedicate whole governments to the destruction of Christianity." 
The Blue Circle, honorary society which reorganized last year, was a completely re­covered war casualty. It attained its pre-war efficiency with a freshman orientation pro­gram that was, perhaps, one of the most thorough-going and best organized in the history of freshman-welcoming. 
The old band uniform gives way to the new (right). 
'7S(e 
S
TUDENTS 
TODAY 
By JOHN DEFANT, '48 
The band had something new to offer, and this time it wasn't new half-time man­euvers. It had blossomed forth in splendor. The stodgy dark blue uniforms of iorma years were discarded and replaced with natty dark blue overcoats, hats and suitcoats; light blue trousers, and, completing the en­semble, gold spats and gloves. 
Farley Hall, which, like Breen-Phillips, has been wryly regarded by its residents as an outpost of frontier life necessitating rigorous marches to the dining hall thrice daily, also had something new: bus service. Actually, the service was a continuation of' the regular Notre Dame bus route to Vet-ville, on the eastern fringe of the campus. 
Biggest social event to date has been the freshman picnic. The first year men gathered at Pottawatomie Park for an afternoon and evening complete with food, cokes and St. Mar)-'s women. 
18 Year Ambition Fulfilled 
The Cleveland Club is bustling about on campus. It is busy lending the parent club in Cleveland a lending hand in preparation for the student trip to the Navy game on Nov. 1, which everyone is looking forward to with anticipation. 
It took Bias A. Alejandre 18 years, but he finally enrolled at N. D. A major in the Philippine Atmy during World War II, he realized his ambition to attend N.D. when the Philippine government selected him to do graduate work in the U. S. He is living in South Bend with his wife and three children while studying for his master's de­gree in mchanical engineering. 
As it has been by men the country over, the "new look" was denounced and praised. Notre Dame men seemed to be about evenly divided in their for and ag'in opinions, but at St. Mary's the new look was a three to one winner. Freshmen attending their first tea dance at St. Mary's opined that any old look was good enough, as long as it was female. However, rumors that men's trousers would hike two inches above the shoe tops evoked nothing but indignation and a uni­versal thumb-down. 
Sophomores went through the first of the class ofljcer elections wth something of the pre-war whoop and holler that was lacking 
last year. Six slates with such cognomens as "Gus' Gang" and the "BMLO Clan" sprinkled the campus with posters and slogans. 
Sophomores were not the only politicians active. Well oiled political machines swung into action as orgam'zation of the city clubs began with the usual back-room horse trad­ing. 
Not to be outdone, the grads, now 321 strong and banded together in the Graduate Students' Association, met to plan an ex­tensive social and educational program for the year. 
Nalioaal Magoziae Established 
But students were concerned with things other than picnics, elections and new looks. Concord, a national magazine for college and university students which began publi­cation this fall, received its original impetus at Notre Dame. Edited by Robert L. Rey­nolds, a Notre Dame undergraduate. Con­cord's editorial staff included representatives from five midwestem universities, with others to be added later. Aimed at the "establish­ment of a student community," the magazine is intended to be an organ of serious student thought. 

Regardless of the midtitudc of activities on the campus, it was fall and the fortimes of the football team were the paramount concern of the students. Although sports writers the nation over had already con­ceded the championship to the Irish, stu­dents well knew that the victor's crown is won on the gridiron, not on typewriters. Nevertheless, confidence in the capabilities of the team was the prevailing mood on campus as the first two opponents were defeated handily. 
In the meantime, everybody was waiting for Nov. 8 and Army. 
Coy McG««. Bugbiy oit* of tb« giidizon. greets 325-potmd freshmoa I. Betteneonit. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

7Ae 7e«^ AKMUU 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday 
DECEMBER 7, 1947 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday annually is observed on the Sunday closest to the feast of the Immaculate Conception, December 8. This year that Sunday is December 7, which will be the anniversary of the Pearl Harbor disaster. The parallel is obvious. Notre Dame clubs have the exceptional, opportimity to "go to Mary" in quest of permanent peace for the world, while at the same time remembering in Mass and Communion all those 329 Notre Dame men who gave their lives in World War II. The basic principles of Church and Country can be emphasized, revivified. 
Plan now fo observe Universal Nofre Dome Communion Sunday wiM your own Nofre Dome Club. 
/Inlufe^ tlie cUaUeHfe of iAede timel , , , Qa ta Ma/u^ 
Volume 25, No. 5, October, 1947 

Directors Meet; Endorse Foundation Plan 
Board Considers Problems of Enrollment, Club Activity, Football Tickets; U.N.D. Communion Sunday Set for Dec. 7; Nominating Committees Are Named and Other Committees to Study Job Placement and Football Movies 
On the campus on Sept. 26-27 the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association gave wholehearted endorsement to the University of Notre Dame Foundation which was evolved from the action of the Board in January through the creation then proposed of a system of alumni governors. 
Present for the September meeting were Directors Timothy J. Murphy, Robert T. Hellrung, Louis F. Buckley, John J. Elder, Leo D. Kelley, Daniel J. O'Neil, Harold E. Duke, William R. Dooley, Thomas F. Byme, Harry G. Hogan, James E. Armstrong, Fran­cis Wallace, Daniel D. Halpin, and Eugene 
S. Blish. Only Director Paul Mallon, be­cause of illness in his family, was absent. 
After a thorough presentation of the needs of the University by Father Cavanaugh, of the details of the Foundation organization by President Hogan, and of discussion by all members of the Board, the Board moved and unanimously voted that since in the considered judgment of the University it is necessary to secure a large amount of money in the years ahead, with present urgent needs totalling some $25,000,000, the Board en­dorses both the University's objective and the Foundation as the best method of achiev­ing it. A second motion unanimously passed stated that "The Board of Directors feels that the Foundation, which was begun by the action and leadership of the Alumni Associa­tion and its President, Harry Hogan, is the greatest thing yet done by alumni for the University, and endorses, approves and advo­cates the program evolved by the Foundation under the leadership of the University ad­ministration and the Foundation Board of Governors with Harry Hogan as chairman." 

Led by Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., registrar, the enrollment problems of the University were considered by the Board, especially as they affect Notre Dame family ties. It was revealed that in the current semester, with only 584 new students, very few sons of alumni had been rejected and then only for serious academic reasons. The problem of enrollment ceiling, whether the present 4,767, or fewer or more, was dis­cussed by Father Cavanaugh, Father Thorn­ton and the Board. The decision is, of course, the University's and will not be made until a thorough study is completed. With 74 percent of the present enrollment ex.­G.I.'s, the conclusions are complex, although study records, residence adaptation, discip­line, and other factors are reported to be very satisfactory in this group. The Board expressed its confidence and appreciation for Father Thornton's administration of ad­missions. 
With Herbert E. Jones, business manager of athletics, and M. Robert Cahill, assistant business manager, present, the Board re­viewed the 1947 football ticket distribution plan. The reports indicate that the plan itself (a product of discussion of previous Board meetings) has worked out remarkably well, judging from the absence of serious criticism or constructive suggestions of change. The major problem continues to be a rapid increase in alumni demands and a. fixed low number of tickets available, rela­tively, for aliunni distribution. Serious st-idy will be given to analysis of improvements possible. The Board expressed apprecia­tion for the work of both Mr. Jones and Mr. Cahill in this field. 
The Board, in confirming Sunday, Dec. 7, as Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day, endorsed the suggestion that all Clubs be urged to dedicate the occasion to the emphasis on the parallel of the fundamental principles of the Church and the nation, basing the thought on the Feast of The Immaculate Conception (patroness of the 
U. S.) and the anniversary of Pearl Harbor. Similarly, in setting . Universal Notre Dame 'Night for Philadelphia, the Board members pointed out the natural emphasis on the patriotic theme of Notre Dame and responsible leadership. Committees on Re­ligion and Citizenship in the Local Clubs were recommended as the logical sponsors for the two major Club observances on the above grounds. Most iilipressive report of the meeting, 
with the exception of the Foundation report, «ras the report on Clubs derived from the 
-y^^i^ 
The directors of the Alumni Association, with several guests, gather for Itmebeoa fallewiag their niestiBgs ctf flw.lWvaciifr on Sept 26-27. In the closest row, front the left, are Bill Dooley. Lou BucUer. Vm Mmpiir' lode Elder. John bwia. Hd Oak*. G«B* Blish and Bob Hellrung. In the rear row are Tom Byme, Dan O'Neil. Father John Covaaaogh. Hanr Hogcd. Bob Cabill. BkrbloaMk Don Halpin. Leo Keller- Father Bobert Sweener and Jim Armstrong. Frank Wallace, prasent eoilier, wok obaeBt iHuin the pictaM 
. taken. ''•..-':. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

excellent questionnaire sent out by Vice-
Faculty Discusses Foundation 
Father Sweeney Outlines Campus Pro­gram; New Residence Halls Planned 
President Bob Hellrung. It revealed a sub­stantial activity among Clubs on the one hand, and a substantial need for organiza­tion and standard direction of Clubs on the other. Its basic indication was the lack of uniformity and specific data in all but the large, major Clubs. But the trend was a rising level of spirit and of achievement and maturity among all Clubs. 
Specific programs for the Clubs, to pro­mote uniformity for the highlight occasions of the year, for publicit>% etc., were recom­mended. 
Panel discussions, based on the question­naire, were recommended for the Local Club Council on Nov. 21-22 on the campus. 
Bill Dooley submitted a written report on the satisfactory progress of the Association's job counseling service. It contained a num­ber of recommendations, based on the earlier study of the Vocational Committee headed by B. J. Voll in 1944. President Hogan appointed a committee of Dan O'Neil, chair­man, Louis Buckley, and Harold Duke to study and act upon the report. 
President Hogan appointed a committee consisting of Jack Elder and Dan Halpin to consult with the Athletic Department con­cerning a definite policy on the distribution of football movies to alumni Clubs. This same two-man committee was commissioned later to discuss with the Athletic Depart­ment possible policy changes in ticket dis­tribution for alumni. 
Among the new business proposed was the setting up of a counseling service by the Alumni Association for sons of alumni, on the campus, and for alumni who wish to inquire about procedures for entering sons or other contacts. A committee of Leo Kelley, Father Thornton, C.S.C, Father Robert Sweeney, C.S.C, and J. E. Armstrong was appointed to study this service. 
Proposed By-laws for the Association were discussed. A committee consisting of Di­rectors O'Neil, Wallace and Kelley was ap­pointed and made some suggestions which arc being incorporated accordingly. The By-Laws will be mailed to the membership in accordance with procedure. 
Pursuant to an aggressive program to bring into the Association all non-graduate former students (whose entering Class is graduated), the Board elected to member­ship 450 applicants proposed under the terms of the Association constitution. 
President Hogan named two nominating committees, as noted elsewhere in these pages, each to select slates of four director nominees for three-year terms. Retiring Directors are Tim Murphy, Dan Halpin, Leo Kelley, and Gene Blish, who were named to a special advisory committee to continue their participation in the work of the Board. 
A special meeting of the faculty and ad­ministrative ofiHcers of the University was held on Sept. 26 for the purpose of ac­quainting them with the progress of the Notre Dame Foundation. Directors of the Alumni Association, meeting on the campus, were guests at the meeting. Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, C.S.C, executive assistant to the president, who is the governor of the Local Committee of the Foundation at Notre Dame, explained that the cooperation of the faculty and staff was an integral require­ment for the success of the Foundation. He suggested that the staff members could be of invaluable assistance to the field workers of the Foundation by supplying them with information concerning industrialists, par­ents of students, and other friends who have evidenced an interest in the University. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, presi­dent, then spoke to the gathering about the plans for Notre Dame's development He emphasized the fact that it was from the deans, the heads of departments and the members of the faculty that the Adminis­tration must accept its counsel on the most effective development of each branch of Notre Dame. He outlined plans that had been drawn for the construction of the new residence halls to accommodate the present enrollment of some 4,700 students; a new building for Physics and another one for Chemistry and a third edifice for Mathe­matics and Science classrooms will provide the much-needed laboratory space for the expanding research being carried on by the School of Science. An endowment of $10,000,000 is desired in a single field, for example, to bring in 12 outstanding scholars in the Mediaeval Institute whose research in the origins and development of Christian civilization should make Notre Dame out­
NOMINATING 

standing in the field of philosophy and reli­ 
gion. Father Cavanaugh disclosed that the  
University had put close to $450,000 into  
graduate research last year and that the op­ 
portunities for academic prestige, as a re­ 
sult of the brilliant work which was done,  
• point to a new era at Notre Dame.  
Harry G. Hogan, president of the Alumni  
Association and Chairman of the Notre  
Dame Foundation, then gave an inspiring  
address in which he urged the whole­ 
hearted cooperation of the faculty and staff  
to the work of the Notre Dame Foundation  >:  
and to the men who have so generously vol­ 
unteered their services in the interests of  
the University. He emphasized that it was  
largely through the devotion of the faculty  
and staff that Notre Dame had miraculously  
developed from a small college in the wil­ 
derness to a world-renowned institution.  
Father Sweney concluded the meeting by  
outlining the method in which the faculty  
will keep in contact with the workers of the  
Foundation. Information is to be passed on  
from the faculty to the headquarters of the  
Foundation, through the medium of the Lo­ 
cal Committee, which has as its chairman  
Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of  
Commerce and includes as committeemen:  
Dean Lawrence Baldinger, College of Sci­ 
ence; Dean C E. "Pat" Mam"on, College of  
Law; Dean Karl Schoenherr, College of  
Engineering; Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh,  .^  
C.S.C, dean of the College of Arts and  i t  
Letters; Mr. Frank Leahy, director of ath­ 
letics; John J. Hinkel, director of Public  
Information; Rev; Gerald Phelan, director  
of the Mediaeval Institute; Prof. Arthur  
Reyniers, director of the Bacteriological In­ 
stitute; and Rev. Joseph Barry, C.S.C, di­ 
rector of student activities.  
 COMMITTEES  

Under the constitution of the Alumni Association, President Harry G. Hogan at the September meeting of the Board of Directors appointed the following two nominating committees: 
(1)
 Thomas S. McCabe. '22. chcdraum, II S. l a Scdle SL, Chicago. Judge Luiher M. Swygeit, "27.6330 Hbhman AT* . Hoimnond. Ihd. EU J. Shoheen (Abrohoni). '35, Sutton Tool Co. Sturgis. IGch. 

(2)
 Frank A. KGlbauer. '25, chainnaii. 44 Bconlord PL. Newark 2. N. J. 'WiUiom L. Piedmont '39. P. O. Bex 1592. New Horen, Conn. Joseph S. Petritz. '32.228 E. 43(d SU ApL. 2A. New Yoik City. 


Each of these tw<j committees will choose four nominees for Alumni Associa­tion directorships, and the eight names resulting will in November be submitted to the Association members "in good standing" in an election. The four directors thus elected will serve terms of three years each. 
Volume 25, No. 5, October, 1947 

WANTED: 1948 Applications at Once 
Alumni-Sons Urged to Act Immediately With Regard 
to September, 1948, Enrollment; Father Thornton Ex­
plains Policies and Procedures Guiding His Office 
By Rev. Louis J. Thornton, CS.C. 

With the fall semester of the 1947-48 (and/or grandfathers). We at Notre Dame 
Registrar of the University

schoolyear well under way, we in the Regis­are very proud of this list. In each case, trar's Office are now able to give most of our the first name given is that of the student attention to the enrollment for September, 
Abrams, Edward Marvin, Atlanta, Ga., Al­
1948. .\lready, many hundreds of applica­

fred R. Abrams; Armstrong, John Elliott, 
earlier so that the prospective applicant may 
tions for next September are on file here, 

South Bend, Ind., James E. Armstrong; At­
shape his high school program to include 
and we are anticipating that this steady chison, Charles Oc Loss, Houston, Tex., 
the academic requirements for the course of 
stream will continue until it will become Charles S. Atchison; Bader, Charles Callus, 
his choice at Notre Dame. 
necessary to close registration for next Sep-Gary, Ind., Clarence W. Bader; Bcckman, ^ tembcr. It became necessary last December Again this year, applications will be con­Thomas Aquinas, Flandome, N. Y., Edwaid to discontinue receiving further applications sidered on the basis of seven semesters of J. Becltman; Brennan, Peter Martin, Buffalo^ for the September, 1947 semester. high school work. Next February, the Reg­N. Y., Martin H. Brennan; Byrne, Richard istrar's Office will forward to the various James, Newark N. J., Joseph M. Byrne; Call, I am, therefore, making use of the ALUM­high schools the University's form of tran­Leonard Mooncy, Hasbrouck Heights, N. J. NUS to urge immediate action by all alumni script for credits earned up to that time by Leonard M. Call; Carroll, James Peter, 
with sons intending to apply for admission 

the applicant. During February, March and Woodstock, ni., William M. CairoU; Car­in September, 1948. If these alumni-sons 
April the applications for admission will be ville, Robert Thomas, Reno, Nev., Edwaid have not .already made formal application 
considered. It is our sincere hope and ex­P. Carville. they should do so at once. A note to the 
pectation that, not later than May 15, 1948, 
Clements, Walter Calvert, South Bend, 
Registrar's Office will bring the necessary 

every applicant for the fall term can be no­
Ind., Walter L. Clements; Connell, Danid 
information and application form. Other 

tified as to whether or not he can be en­
Richard, Chicago, HI., Daniel R. Connell, 
relatives and friends of alumni should, of rolled. 

Jr.; Coryn^ John Ralph, Moline, IlL, J. R. 
course, also apply at once in order to be 

Coiyn; Curry, David Michael, Hartford, 
considered for admission a year hence. 86 Alumni-Sons Enrolled 
Conn., Thomas B. Curry; Degnen, William So much for September, 1948. The im­Joseph, Westfidd, N. J., William J. Deg­
It is probably unnecessary to point out to portant thing, let me say again, is that nen, Sr.; Dcsch, Charles Augustine, Ehn­
alumni that the filing of an application does those alumni-sons desiring to enter Notre huist. 111., A. C. Desch; Dinnen, William 
not guarantee that the applicant will ulti­

Dame at that time should have their appli­Richaid, Fort Wayne, Ind., Charles P. Din­
mately be accepted for enrollment. In 

cations here as soon as possible, if they arc nen; Doherty, George William, Oak Paik, 
accordance with the University's policy, pref­

not already on file. 111., George W. Doherty, Sr.; Diiscoll, Da­
erence in admission will continue to be given 

vid Read, Jeffersonville, Ind., D. R. Diit-
A i former Notre Dame students who left the Now let me tell you something about our 
coll; Eichenlaub, Albeit Joseph and Rich­
campus in good standing to join the armed experiences with the enrollment of new stu­
ard Eberle, Bexley, C , Ray J. Eichenlaub; 
forces and wish to resume their studies upon dents for September, 1947—last month.. We 
Fddpausch, Richard Kayhill, Hastings, 
completion of their military service. The knew that, because of the extremely heavy 
Mich., Roman C. Fddpausch; Fogarty, Ger­
preregistration last spring of students already 
applications of prospective students will be 

ald Edward, Anderson, Ind., James F. Fo­
considered largely on the basis of academic in school, we could accept relatively few 
garty. 
new students for September. The normal 
standards to the extent that facilities are demand from students completing their high 
available in the various colleges and depart­
lialiiiga CoBtinued 

school work was augmented by a substantial 
ments of the University for accommodating 

demand from veterans who had entered mil­
additional students. Gallagan, IVilliam Francis, Westfidd, N. 
itary service upon completion of their high 
J., William'F. Gallagan, Sr.; Gushurs^ IJa­
school studies. All of these applications were 
No Chronological Preference vid, Albert Lead, S. Dak., Albert F. Gush-
carefully reviewed, and acceptance was de­
hurst; Haley, John Arthur, South Bend, Bid., 
I should explain here that there is no terznined largely by academic standards. In 
J. Arthur Haley; Hanigan, Harry Joscfdi, 
chronological preference for an applicant. reviewing these applications, due recogni­Chicago, HL, Harry J. Hanigan; Hanouiek, tion was given the alumni-son status. Al­
One, for instance, who applies in October, William R., Minneapolis, Minn., Richard J. 
though it was possible for the University to 
1947, is judged according to the same stand­Hanousek; Hanrahan, Joseph Patrid^ du ? accommodate less than 600 new students, 
ards as one who applied earlier. This state­cago, HI., Joseph W. Hanrahan; Harmon, 
eighty-six were the sons (and/or grandsons) 
ment is also the answer to the many alumni Joseph Patrick, Indianapolis, Ind., Joseph 
of Notre Dame alumni. Less than a dozen 
who inquire regarding the feasibility of P. Harmon, Sr. 
applications of alumni-sons were considered 
making application far in advance,—say, two Hassenauer, Robert Leo, Wilmette, HL, 
unfavorably. 
years, three years or five years—for their Leo Joseph Hassenauer; Hayes, Martin sons, or their relatives or friends. The Uni-In the list accompanying this article you Richard, Manchester, Conn., David Hayes; ^ versity receives applications approximately will find the names and home cities of the Herr, Stephen Francis, Chatsworth, HL,' Ste­one year in advance of the proposed admis­descendants of our alumni who were ac­phen H. Heir; Hogan, William CNeill, sion date. University bulletins and other cepted for enrollment in September, 1947, Wheeling, W. Va., W. N. Hogan; Ho-
information can, of course, be obtained 

together with the names of their fathers schddt, Henry, BL, Julius C. Hoscheidt; 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Huguenard, Aaron Henr)-, Jr., South Bend, Ind., Aaron H. Huguenard and William Mc-Inemey (grandfather); Hurley, William Jo­seph, Wilmette, 111., Ira W. Hurley; Insley, Stanley Joseph, Detroit, Mich., Dr. Stanley 
W. Insley; Johnson, William Lee, Dallas, Tex., grandfather; Jordan, Richard James, Scranton, Pa., James D. Jordan; Joyce, John Joseph, McAlester, Okla., John D. Hardin (great grandfather); Kelleghan, Thomas Coleman, Chicago, 111., J. H. Kelleghan; Kennedy, Francis Byran, Pittsburgh, Pa., John J. Kennedy; Kerns, Gerald Arthur, Somonauk, 111., Joseph N. Antoine (grand­father) . 
Kraus, Thomas Albert, Akron, O., John 

R. Kraus; La Mair, Louis Charles, Wil­mette, 111., Louis G. La Mair; Logan, Thomas David, Fort Wayne, Ind., F. Leslie Logan; Maher, William Raj-mond, Park Ridge, 111., William R. Maher; McGuire, James John, Holstein, la., Patrick Mc­Guire (grandfather); Miller, Ray Thomas, Shaker Heights, O., Ray T. Miller. 
Munger, Harold Charles, Pcrr>'sburg, O., Harold H. Munger; Murphy, Preston Vin­cent, Hammond, Ind., Dr. John J. Molloy (grandfather); Muth, Albert Jerome, Co­lumbus, O., Albert J. Muth; Nachtegall, James Bernard, Grand Rapids, Mich., Al­fred 0. Nachtegall; O'Connor, William Jo­seph, Pittsburgh, Pa., Edward J. O'Connor; Odem, Wilbert Irwin, Houston, Te.K., Brian 
S. Odem; O'Donnell, Charles Conrad, Chi­cago, 111., Joseph F. O'Donnell; O'Donnell, James Jurgens, Mansfield, O., John C. O'Donnell; O'Neill, Dennis John, Lake­wood, O., Dennis J. O'Neill (father) and 
W. P. O'Neill (grandfather). O'Neill, William Edward, Shaker Heights, O., Hugh M. O'Neill; O'SuUivan, Clifford Patrick, Port Huron, Mich., Clifford O'Sul­lii-an; O'Toole, Francis John and James Anthony, Calumet, Mich., Francis A. O'Toole (deceased); Pontarelli, George An­thony, Chicago, 111., Anthony Pontarelli; Powers, John Murray, Cuyhoga Falls, O., Murray Powers; Rauth, Vincent Joseph, York, Nebr., Aaron F. Rauth; Rigali, Jo­seph Lawrence, Oak Park, 111., Joseph L. Rigali; Rockne, John Vincent, South Bend, Ind., Knute K, Rockne (deceased); Roe-mer, James Anthony, South Bend, Ind., William Roemer. Rohrbach, John Melvin, Croivn Point, Ind., John M. Rohrbach; Schmitt, Leo 
James, Sioux City, la., Edward Joseph Schmitt; Schwartz, George John, Dunkirk, 
N. Y., Herbert G. Schwartz; Sheehan, Thomas Joseph, South Bend, Ind., William 
F. Sheehan; Sheerin, James Leo, Kokomo, Ind., James L. Sheerin, Sr.; Shelly, Joseph Daly, Wilmette, 111., Joseph D. Shelly; Sjo­berg, Ralph Robert, Chicago, 111., Ralph E. Sjoberg; Smith, Donal Jerome, Cleveland, O., Joseph F. Smith. 
Soisson, Ignatius Lang, Connellsville, Pa., Basil Soisson; Stack, James Martin, 
LAB FOR GERM-FREE STUDY BEGUN 
Long-range scientific experiments were in­augurated on August 27 at cornerstone ceremonies for a new Laboratory for Germ-Free Life at Notre Dame with the enclosure in the cornerstone of biological specimens to be studied by future generations of scien­tists. 
The specimens enclosed in the cornerstone will be obser\'ed and studied by scientists when the building, which is expected to be utilized for more than two hundred years, is razed. 
Most Rev. Lawrence L. Graner, C.S.C., D.D., Bishop of Dacca, India, blessed the cornerstone at the ceremonies attended by the Rev. Thomas A. Steincr, C.S.C., United States provincial. Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president. Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.G., dean of the Graduate School; Prof. James A. Re)'niers, director of the Labora­tories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) at Notre Dame; and other administrative officials and members of the staff of LOBUNT). 
Included in material sealed in the comer-stone were bacteria, viruses, protozoa, insects, worm eggs and fungi. Bacteria cultures • were frozen and dried out by \-acuum for preservation. Samples of penicillin, strep­tomycin and sulfa drugs also were put in the cornerstone in order that when it is opened medical science will be enabled to determine whether the drugs have retained their potency. 
Soil samples of fertile Indiana loam, clay and sand and also samples of rain and lake water from the South Bend area were in­cluded for the purpose of comparing the types now in the area and the types several hundred years in the future. 
Types "A" and "B" human blood were sealed with the other scientific material in an effort to determine if the types of human blood change or remain the same during the period. Every vitamin known to the medical world today was placed in the cornerstone so that future scientists will be able to tell whether or not they have retained their potency. 
All scientific material will be sealed in a copper box to be filled with nitrogen and 
Superior, Wis., William C. Stack; Stewart, Joseph Richard, Kansas City, Mo., Joseph 
R. Stewart; Thomas, George Charles, Wil­loughby, O., George E. Thomas; Vogel, James Francis, Pittsburgh, Pa., Leo L. Vo­gel; Ward, Allen Clifford, Fort Wayne, Ind., Clifford B. Ward; Weisbecker, Leo William, Omaha, Nebr., A. A. Weisbecker; Weisend, John Gerald, Cleveland, O., John LeRoy Weisend (deceased); Young, Daniel Rich­ard, Drexel HUl, Pa., Daniel H. Young. 
sealed with solder before sealing in the  '  
cornerstone. It is expected that information  
of vast interest and importance to science  
will result when the cornerstone is opened.  
Laboratories in the new building will be  
used for the production of germ-free animals  
in large quantities for use in medical prob­ 
lems and as a basis for research in the  
Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame.  
The new building will serve as a supplement  
to the 28 laboratories now being utilized by  
LOBUND in the Biology Building on the  
Notre Dame campus.  
Professor Reyniers, who designed and built  
unique germ-free equipment at Notre Dame,  
started the Laboratories of Bacteriology in  
1928. The laboratories since have become  
world-renowned for germ-free, biological  
engineering an d micrurgical research.  
Among problems being studied with germ- 
free life at present are: tooth decay, sources  •  
of new vitamins, lymphomatosis in chickens  
and certain aspects of cancer and heart  
disease.  
GEORGE F. HULL DIES  
Older generations of Notre Dame students  
will remember George F. Hull as the co- 
owner of Hullie's and Mike's Cigar Store,  
a once-popular South Bend gathering place  
for Notre Dame students. Mr. Hull, a city  
councilman for 25 years, died Sept. 11, at  
the age of 75, victim of a heart attack.  
Jim Costin wrote the following in his  
sports column in the South Bend Tribune:  
"Well, "HuUie" has gone on to join his  
old pal, Mike Calnon, who preceded him in  
death by 12 years. George Hull was one  
of the best known sports followers in this  
district, and had been for many years.  ^  
"The story of his association in the cigar  
store business with Mike Calnon is well  
known to all their old friends here, and so  
is the story of their close friendship with  
the late Knute Rockne. Certainly "HuUie"  
and Mike were among the original Notre  
Dame football fans who stuck with the team  
through thick and thin, and for many years  
the two of them made all the trips with  
Rockne and the squad.  
"Then Mike's health began to fail shortly  
after Rockne's death and he could no longer  
follow the team as he once did. I believe  
the last game Mike saw away from home  
was the Northwestern contest at Evanston  
in November, 1934. He died a couple of  
days before the Navy game in Baltimore in  
1935. With his two old pals gone, "HuUie"  
lost considerable of his enthusiasm and made  
few out-of-town trips for Notre Dame games  
after Mike died. Now the three old friends  
are together again in death."  ^  
Mr. Hull is survived by his wife, by a  
son and daughter (the wife of X^uis V.  
Bruggner, '23), and a brother and two  
sisters.  

Women In the Notre Dame Way of Life 
Foundation Program Revives Question of Place Women Fill in the Notre Dame Scheme; Every Notre Dame Wife or Mother or Sister 
^ 
|, 
f 
Benefits from the Strengthening of the University 
"Should we invite women to this meet­ing?" "Are you going out to another Notre Dame committee meeting?" 
"Should you contribute as much this year to Notre Dame? You know how costs are going up, and there's the new church, and  you need a vacation." 
"Don't let them give you another job at the Club meeting." 
Maybe these aren't exactly typical con­versation pieces from outside Notre Dame. But as one who has heard for years" the comments of professors wives, of alumni wives, of mothers and sisters and daughters of Notre Dame men, and most recently wives of students, you won't mind a few observa­tions. 
I think they're important now—for the women, as well as for Notre Dame. 
The first thing the freshman sees when he comes to Notre Dame is a Golden Lady high on a Golden Dome, to whom his eyes grow more and more instinctively elevated as the Notre Dame days go by. 
The last thing the departing graduate sees  is this same gracious Lady watching from her pedestal his march against life, committed now to her colors. 
And for all his years, the Golden Virgin is the instant vision when he hears the name Notre Dame. 
Every breath of Notre Dame's 105 years of history has been as virile as the staunch band of Brothers led by the indomitable Sorin through the freezing wilderness to the white shores of the little lake by the old Potawat­tomie Mission. And yet the same softness that won then and there the dedication to Our Lady of the Lake, in her white mantle, has touched the Notre Dame men of all generations. 
There is no doubt in my mind that the late G. K. Chesterton was fascinated by this paradox of a man's school that excels in all that becomes men, and yet at the same time is dominated spiritually and physically by the golden figure of a Girl. 
 It was not unSil 1918 that the administra­tion permitted a woman to become a student at Notre Dame, and then only in the calm and sheltered days of the summer school. 
It is much moie recently that the office work of the University was passed from the hands of student secretarial help, more will­ing than able, to the trained hands of scores of young women, so that now the campus scene is attuned to women, and even the wives and babies of war veterans are accept­ed as calmly in reality as the Catholic family life that was formerly confined to the . hypotheses of the social sciences. 
There is a difference, though, at Notre Dame. And it is a difference that sometimes appears in the lives of alumni, and deceives the very women who are nearest and should know. 
For the Notre Dame man, in relation to Notre Dame, there is only One Woman. 
There are no Beauty Queens at Notre Dame, no frantic competitions in style and manner. The Queen of the Notre Dame campus has long been content with one dress, albeit a Golden one. 
But for the women who play so important a part in the lives of Notre Dame men, this singleness of devotion is not a cause for jealousy, for concern, for pique. 
Because in that beautiful devotion to Mary there is a broad quality of idealism and understanding that includes you. 
As you have grown in the knowledge and understanding of your particular Notre Dame man your image has been raised and glorified until for him it shares with Our Lady the golden pedestal of the Dome of Notre Dame. 
 Teaching. 
If you cherish the respect for womanhood that is one of the great contributions of Christianity you will encourage the devotion of every Notre Dame man to Our Lady. 
If you believe in the stability of the home as the bulwark of Christian civilization against the totalitarian encroachment of paganism, you will urge your Notre Dame man to enter every phase of the responsible leadership for lyhich Notre Dame has trained him. 
And if you believe that the men of to­morrow should continue to learn the trade of Joseph under the love of Mary, you will join in the alumni program to give Notre Dame the opportunity to continue as one of the great American citadeb of Christian womanhood. 
You may not know individual glory—but if you remember that you are enmeshed with Mary in the minds of the Notre Dame men who love you, you will wear a reflected radiance denied to many. Mary Herself was humble in Her glory, a quality beautifully expressed in a poem, "The Virgin Perfect," by the late Father Charles L. O'DonneU: 
The lowly things were sweet to her. The clover and the dew; Creation all seemed sweet to her. The scarlet rose, the rite. 
A simple, busy day was hers Within her garden dell; The common, even way was hers. But walked uncommon well. 
Not that she heard, but kept the word,. In this her virtue lay; She slept at night, when slept the Word, To slumber was to pray. 
DEAN MANION WRITES ARTICLES 
Dr. Clarence Manion, dean of the College of Law, has written a series of articles on Americanism which arc appearing twice weekly in the "South Bend Tribune." The series, under the general title of "American­ism, What It Is and What It Does," started in the Oct. 1 issue. They arc appearing every Sunday and Wednesday until the final article is printed in the Oct. 29 issue. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

David Van Wallace, '27, ML Clemens, Mich., will return next month from his pilgrimage to Lourdes in France, a trip made possible by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit the UniTersity of Detroit High School (dnmni and many other of Van's friends. Here is the Chevrolet station wagon presented to Van just before he left in it for France. Left to right are Henry Sullivan. Mai Knaus. lim Foren. Mrs. Rosalie Wallace (Van's mother). lack Moore, Tom Traynor and Owen Traynor. Van himself is inside the car. 
DUJARIE CHOIR MAKES RECORDS 1933. He later studied at the Pius X Litur­N.D. CHEMISTS AT CONVENTION gical School of Music in New York and at 
Scientists from the University presented Special religious music features an album 
Northwestern University. He currently is 
ten papers on results of research at Notre of selections which has been recorded for the 
executive secretary of the Natfonal Catholic 
Dame in pure and organic chemistry, at the Victor Record Division of the Radio Cor­Music Education Association. 
annual convention of the American Chemi­poration of America by the Dujarie Choir cal Society held Sept. 15 to 19 in New at Notre Dame. 
Orders for the album should be sent to 
York City. Gerard Distributors, Box 3, Notre Dame, 
The Dujarie choir, under the direction of The Notre Dame group was led by Dr. 
Ind. The cost, including all mailing and 
Brother Arnold Richert, C.S.C, is com­Charles C. Price, head of the Department of 
insurance charges in the United States, is 
posed of 36 Brothers of the Congregation Chemistry. Dr. Price, who was the 1946 
§4.25. 
studying at Dujarie Institute on the Notre recipient of the American Chemical Society's Dame campus. Award for distinguished work in Pure Chem­istry, presented five papers on the results 
LAETARE MEDAL PRESENTED 

Inspiration for the recording came from of his recent research at Notre Dame. William George Bruce, 91 years old, Mil­
students of Notre Dame who had heard the Other Notre Dame scientists who present­
waukee publisher and civic leader, on Sept. 
choir perform at various religious functions ed papers were Dr. Milton Burton, atomic ^ 
9, formally received the Laetare Medal for 
on the Notre Dame campus during the energy expert who served as an o£SciaI 
1947 at a testimonial dinner in the Schroed­
schoolyear. A student committee, headed scientific observer for the government at the 
er Hotel Milwaukee, sponsored by the Notre 
by Gerard O'Brien, San Diego, Calif., law 1946 atomic bomb test at Bikini; Dr. Ken­
Dame Club of Milwaukee. Five hundred 
student, made the necessary arrangements neth Campbell, who has been conducting attended. 
for the recording. The album was sched­
anrimalarial studies at Notrc Dame which uled to be released early in October. 
have produced four important animalarial of the University, read the ofiScial citation 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, president 
drugs now undergoing clinical tests; Dr. The two twelve-inch records in the albiun 
Christopher Wilson, distinguished British contain eight polyphonic numbers by the 
accompanying the medal and presented the 
chemist; and Brother Columba Curran, masters of the sixteenth and seventeenth 
medal to Mr. Bruce. Dr. Edward A. Fitz-
C.S.C. Dr. Paul Doty of Notre Dame par­centuries, as sung by the choir at Masses in 
patrick, president of the Mt. Mary College, 
ticipated with the others in the discussion Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame during 
Milwaukee, delivered the presentation ad­
on each paper. the year. 
dress. Other speakers included Mr. Bruce 
himself, Hon. Oscar Rennebohm, acting Luncheon was held for Notre Dame alimi­governor of Wisconsin and Hon. John L. ni at the Hotel Peimsylvania in New York 
Included in the albimi are Vittoria's "Ave 
Bohn, mayor of Milwaukee. Rev. Peter on Sept. 17, in connection with the con­Maria" and "O Vos Omnes;" Gruender's 
Brooks, S.J., president of Marquette Univer­vention. Dr. Frank Sowa, of the Sowa Lab­"Sanctus," from the "Missa cum Jubiloj" 
sity, asked the blessing before and after the oratories, New York, made the arrange­Vogel's "Asccndit Deus;" Remondi's "Ado­
dinner. The entire program was broad­ments. ramus Te;" Grassi's "Laudate Dominum;" 
cast. Drs. Price, Campbell, Wilson and Burton, Crocc's "In Monte Oliveti," and Deis's 
and Brother Columba represented the chem­"Laetentur Cocli." Charles A. O'Neill was chairman of the 
istry faculty at the luncheon. Dr. Price gave club committee which arranged the diimer. 
a brief talk on the present status of the Brother Arnold, director of the choir, He was assisted by Thomas E. Dixon, presi­
department, ^ received a Master of Music degree from the dent of the club, William £. Brown and 
Arrangements are underway for a similar American Conservatory of Music, Chicago, Robert L. Hamilton, the latter of Racine, 
luncheon to be held in connection with the after his graduation from Notre Dame in Wis. 
Chicago meeting in April, 1948. 
IT 
» »

ATHLETICS 
^MM^M«^^^M^^^^^«^^^%Ai^^^l^MM^^^«^^«MMAMAM^MM^MMMMM^MAAMMMAMMMMAAMMM^MMMMAMMM^^^tfV^^^^MWMMMVMW%IWMWWMWWMMWMMWMWMMWWWMWWMWMWk 
FOOTBAU 
"Will Notre Dame repeat as national 
champions?" 
That is the question posed on everyone's 
tongues as this issue of the ALUMNUS goes 
to press. Can the Irish, after what many 
fans and experts considered a mediocre 
start for a team with so many potentialities, 
make a great comeback and cop the mythi­
cal national title away from such topnotch 
elevens as Michigan, Texas, Illinois and 
Army? 
These questions are flying thick and fast after what is probably the most publicized team in Notre Dame history started the sea­son with a 40 to 6 victory over the Pitts­burgh Panthers. The Panthers, by the way, even though vast underdogs against Coach Leahy's Irish, are the same gridders who a week previously had held Illinois' powerful aggregation to a 14 to 0 win gained in the final quarter of play. But the experts were a little shaky about giving Notre Dame the No. 1 spot in the nation, even after such an overwhelming triumph. 
These same experts—sportswriters of the land—dropped Notre Dame into the No. 2 position among collegiate competition the following week after the Lcahymen had experienced considerable difficulty in dump­ing Stu Holcomb's Purdue Boilermakers, 22 to 7, in Lafayette. This same Purdue eleven had outlasted Ohio State the week before, 24 to 20, and played tremendous football ag£unst Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame was built up by pre-season publicity as "possibly the best collegiate football team ever to trot onto a gridiron," Came those victories over Pittsburgh and Purdue, and the fans, alumni and experts were asking in a chorus, "What's the mat­ter with the Irish?" 
The answer, as we have been able to formulate our opinion, is very simple: "Nothing." 
Johnny Lujack and his mates have won two ball games in two starts. They have scored a total of 62 points while doing so, and at the same time holding the opposi­tion to 13 tallies. The only thing they have not done in early season competition is to run up overwhelming scores as apparently expected. 
As Coach Leahy himself puts it, "Publi­city has jeopardized our chances early in the season. Our boys have been subjected to more of that than any team I can remember. They rated us highly in magazines, news­papers, on the radio and newsreels. It is bound to have an effect on young boys like ours. But I can promise you one thing. We'll be a little better every week; you can count on that. From now on, we'll show definite improvement." 
One thing loomed above all others in the first two games of the season. If the Notre Dame ground attack bogs down as it did in these contests, Johnny Lujack still can be counted upon for his accurate passes. Dur­ing the Pittsburgh and Purdue encounters, Lujack completed 23 out 41 passes for a total of 354 yards and four of these were touchdown tosses. At the end of this same period, Lujack also led the Irish in the running department with an average of 12 yards per try in five carries. One of these 
run was a 26-yard touchdown jaunt agaimt the Btnleimakeis. 
And Notie Dante's other podtioiat throughout the team are manned b]r vet­erans who are showing improvement each week. Jim Martin and Leon Han^ both let­termen last year, hdd down the end berths, but are being pressed hard by Bill Wig^t­kin and Doug Waybrig^t. AH ifaoold KC plenty of action this year. 
At tackles, Qq>tain George Connor and Ziggy Czarobski, another pair ofstahwaits who can give and take with the best in football, hold forth. Connor has been ham­pered by a pre-season ankle injury and has been relieved connderably in eariy season games by Ralidi McGchee, while anodter capable replacement. Gasper Urban, has shared the right tackle berth with Czarob­ski. 
The guard posts are well-manned with rough and ready athletes. Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell, a pair of defensive "cats," are well secured in their positions, although Joe Signaigo, another mont^ram winner, is ready to relieve the starting guards. 

A close battle has been raging for the center post since the beginning of faD drills. George Strtduieyer, last year's reg­ular pivot man, has held the upper hand, al-' though Bill Walsh, regtilar in 1945, is see­ing his share of action and may nose out Strohmeyer for the starting berth Jbefoce the season's end. 
Jdmny Lujack, of course, has heme the brunt of action and probaUy will continue to do so throughout the campaign. Frank 
1HE PDBDTIE GAME VUIDUE AGMR 
Emil Silkb going ploces. Or was he? Km Nnlfau end* OMfaMiLidack. 
The Notre Dame Aliunnus 

Tripucka, however, is coming fast and Pete Asbaugh is used nearly all the time on de­fense. 
Emil Sitko, another 1946 first stringer, holds the edge at right half with Bill Gom­pers a close second, and at left half. Coy McGee, who broke into the limelight in last year's Southern California game, is giving regular Teny Brennan a terrific battle for the post, while Larry Coutre is pressing close behind. John Panelli is well set at fullback, with Floyd Simmons as understudy. 
More and more the Notre Dame season is building up toward a climax with the Army game. The national title might well be decided in this game and it might wcu be a battle of two unbeaten teams. 
But Coach Frank Leahy is grooming his team for three tough battles after the Cadet fracas. Northwestern, Tulane and Southern California loom on the horizon after the "battle of the year" on Nov. 8. And any one of these teams easily might prove a stumb­ling block, Leahy feels, toward the com­pletion of a successful season. 
BASKETBALL Coach Ed "Moose" Krause, who guided the 1946-47 Notre Dame basketball team to a record of 20 victories and only 4 de­feats, is drilling another fine Irish quintet preparatory to opening one of the toughest schedules in histor)-. On paper, the Irish team should be a great one. Krause has six monogram winners returning from last year's powerhouse and the experience gained last season should make the current Notre Dame cage edi­tion a threat in the national collegiate bas­ketball picture. Once again, however, as last year the Krausemen figure to be a questionmark ball 
club. Frannie Curran, Sterling, 111., spark­plug, has used up his eligibility at Notre Dame and has signed to play professional ball with the Toledo Jeeps in the National League. Curran provided the spark neces­sary to pull several close ones out of the fire last season and will be sorely missed. 
Kevin O'Shea, the highly-touted hoof)­ter from San Francisco, made a name for himself last year as one of the best prospects ever to attend Notre Dame. His tricky ball handling and dribbling established him as an All-.\roerican choice in many sectors as a freshman and even though he finished the season with two bad knees. If his knees hold up, O'Shca's sophomore year should stamp him as an .\11-American in every quarter. 
John Brennan, the 1946 team's leading scorer, is back again at center and, with Krause's aid, promises to develop into an outstanding pivot man. .'\nd Leo Bamhorst, O'Shea's running mate at guard last sea­son and fourth in individual scoring, also is back for his sophomore season. 
Rounding out the list of monogram win­ners from last year who are back for an­other season are guard Paul Gordon and forward Jim O'Halloran. In addition to Curran, two other monogram winners—for­wards John Kelly and Carl Loyd will be missing from this year's ranks. Kelly was graduated in June and Loyd withdrew from school. 
Since Kelly and Curran both were reg­ulars last season, Krause's chief problem lies in finding replacements for his two start-forwards. One solution which he is con­sidering during pre-season drills is shifting Bamhorst to a forward berth and moving Gordon, an outstanding defensive man, into a starting guard berth with O'Shea. O'Hal­
Emil Silko. lobnny Lujack, John PonelU and Bob livingstone iorm one bockfield combination out on Cottier Field. 
loran, at the moment, seems to be the logical (T* choice for the other forward berth. 
CBOSS COUNTBY 
Victorious over Purdue, 17 to 37, in the season opener. Coach Elvin R. (Doc) Han­dy's Notre Dame cross country team faces one more dual meet, a double dual meet and four invitational affairs on the 1947 schedule. 
As this is written nine men are expected to make up the nucleus of the Irish squad. They are: Jim Murphy, Comic Styers, Bill Leonard, Jim Kelly, Bob Mitchell, James Kittell, Tom McGuire, Louis Tracy and Merle Fleming. 
Murphy, diminutive monogram winner from Providence, R. I., captured the Notre Dame cross country championship in pre­season competition when he covered the three mile course in 15:45. Styers placed second and Leonard and Kelly tied for third. 
The schedule: Oct. 18—Wisconsin at Xolre Dame Oct. 25—^Michigan Stale and Iowa (double dual meet) Nov. 1—Loyola Invitational at Chicago Nov. 15—Central Collegiate Conference Meet at Dcs Moines Nov. 24—^National Collegiate Meet at East Lans­ing, Midi. 
STUDENT GROUP TO ROME 

A delegation of priests and seminarians 
from the Congregation of Holy Gross—first 
such delegation since World War II—sailed 
on Sept. 25 to study at the Holy Cross 
International House of Studies in Rome, 
Italy. Three priests and four seminarians 
comprise the group. 
Of these three priests, two. Rev. Joseph 
Rehage, C.S.C, New Orleans, and Rev. 
Robert Steigmeyer, C.S.C, Dayton, O., will 
pursue advanced studies in Canon Law, and 
Rev. Paul Waldschmidt, C.S.C, Evansville, 
Ind., will study Dogmatic Theology. Both 
Father Rehage and Father Waldschmidt 
were ordained in 1946, while Father Steig­
meyer was ordained this year. 
The four seminarians, who will remain in 
Rome for at least a five-year period and will 
be ordained there upon completion of their 
prescribed course of study, are: Thomas O. 
Barrosse, C.S.C, New Orleans, and Matthew 
Miceli. CS.C, Oswego, N. Y., both 1947 
graduates of Notre Dame; and James C. 
Buckley, C.S.C, Chicago, and John H. 
Miller, C.S.C, New Orleans, both of whom 
are in the third year of seminary study. 
NOTRE DAME RING FOUND 

A Notre Dame ring, inscribed with the name "Foley," was found early.in October in the barber shop of the Merchants Bank Building, Indianapolis. The owner of this ring can claim it by writing to Patrick J. Fisher, ~61&%diana Trust Bldg., Indianapo­lis, president of the local Notre Dame club. 
Volume 25, No. 5, October, 1947 
ALUMNI CLUBS 
Bolfimore 
At tlic July 21 meeting of the club the following were appointed committee chairmen for the year: FRANK HOCHREITER, program and entertain­ment; JOHN CONLEY, prep school contact; JOE McCABE, job counseling; and HAL WILLIAMS, publicity. 
LEWIS J. O'SHEA, president, presided and out­lined to the 27 club members present the set-up and objectives of the National Alumni Bfiard. 
Already JOE McCABE and his committee are busily preparing personnel data, questionnaires which, when completed} are to be sent to each club member. 
The club's first annual picnic was held on Aug. 23, at Pinchurst-On-The-Bay. It was a family affair and 24 members with their wives and children were present. FRANK HOCHREITER was in charge of the arrangements and he and his committee did a grand job. BILL HART.MAN 
Buffofo 
The club honored REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., President of the University, at a luncheon at the Park Lane Restaurant, on Sept. 24, Ap­proximately a hundred attended. Father Ca^-anaugh was in Buffalo, participating in the Eucharistic Congress program, to address the college student session. 
BERNARD J. BIRD, '28, was general chairman of the luncheon and ALFRED C. RYAN, *20, waj the toastmaster. Among the honored guests were: MOST REV. GEORGE L. LEECH, bishop of Harrisburs; REV. THOMAS A. STEINER, C.S.C, provincial; RT. REV. MSGR. SCOTT, San Pedro, Calif; REV. LOUIS J. THORNTON, C.S.C, regis­trar; REV. RAYMOND MURRAY, director of New­man Society, University of Buffalo; HON. JOSEPH SCOTT, Los Angeles; WILLIAM L. CORBETT, Chicago, member of the University's Board of Lay Trustees. 
^Conton, O. 
The club has been revived, with BILL BELDEN as president; NORM CONLEY, as vice-president, and BILL UNGASHICK, as secretary-treasurer. A meeting was planned for Oct. 28. 
Central New York 
Club members had a big day on Aug. 5 as they wound up their summer activities with a golf tournament, dinner, and the showing by HUB SCHLAFLY of "Football Highlights of 1946." TOM FARMER, DAN WILLIAMS and DUKE KINNEY led the tournament and walked off with the prizes. (Club Secretary JOHN H. TERRY reported each was given a "certificate for a new suit of clothes by BILL SULLIVAN entitling them to one suit for the price of two.") 
The committee in charge of the ilay's activities in­cluded JACK Mc/\ULIFFE, JUSTIN CORCORAN, and E. W. KENEFAKE. 
DAN WILLIAMS, local attorney, is teaching at both Cornell University and LcMoyne College, the new Jesuit school. BILL KELLEY \-isited with Notre Dame's beloved FATHER McGINN, C.S.C, in Rochester. JOHN E. (ADAM) WALSH has entered the truclung business in Auburn. TOM BERGIN of Watertown, after recelwng his master's degree at St. Joseph's in Vermont, is now an in­structor at Notre Dame. ED DRAKE of Phila,­delphia, N. M., is now teaching high school In the North Woods. BILL 0'HAR.-\ has announced his engagement. 
DON'T MISS 
NOTRE DAME-ARMY FOOTBALL RALLY 
Friday Evening. November 7 
GRAND BALLROOM Stevens Hotel CHICAGO 
Tickets J3.00 Per Penon 
ENTERTAINMENT DANCING 
Mail Check mnd Reserration to 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO 
15S North Clark Street 
CliicaKo 1, Illinois 

Cenfral Ohio 
BISHOP LAWRENCE L. GRANER, C^.C . Buhop of Dacca, India, and BISHOP MICHAEL J. READY of Columbus were honored at the club's dinner on Sept. 9. JACK CANNON, club president, served as toastmaster. 
Speakers at the dinner included &(sgr. J. £ . MATTINGLY, the dub's chaplain; REV. VINCENT MOONEY, C.S.C, co-chaplain; REV. L. W. SCAN­NELL, O.M.I., Director for the Society for the Propagation of the Faith; THOMAS J. SHEEHAN, and EDWARD G. CANTWELL, of Bishop Gran­er's 1924 graduating class. 
The club, which is. now evolving plans for a Scholarship fund, will run a special train to the Navy game in Cleveland. 
Chicago 
JA^fES KANE, '44, chairman of the Luncheon Committee, announced that the first fall Itmcheon would be held on Oct. 22. 
Chairman JAMES J. CRONIN, *35, reimrts tickets orders have been pouring in from all sections of the country for the Notre Dame-Army rally being held in the grand ballroom of the Stevens Hotel in Chicago the night before the game. James assures all attending they %viU sec a show of top notch sports, theatrical, and musical entertainers; 
LEO POWERS, '25, informs us that the com­munity clubs are showing new life with the arrival of cooler %veather. Some nine local community clubs have meetings planned for the month of October. 
The FATHER CAVANAUGH Testimonial Dinner . held in the Red Lacquer room of the IMmer House was a definite success. Afany alumni were present, as wcU as a large number o£ pronunent Chicagoans who were guests. University officials present, other than the honored spealwr, were, 
J. ARTHUR HALEY, director of public relations, and JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, national alumni secretary. HARRY G. HOGAN of Fort Wayne, Indiana, president of the Alumni Association, gave an address on the plans and problems of the De*.v!y formed Foundation. Father Cavanaugb discussed the need of a broader moral base in higher edu* cation. JEROME J. CROWLEY, '98, did an admir­able job as toastmaster. The C3ub owes its chalr-
BUhop Lowrence L Graner. CA C of Dacca. India, along with Biahop Michaol J. Roodr of Colnmbiw. O^ wwo honorod at this luncheon of the Central Ohio Club in Columbus. Bishop Beadr is third from left front row. ond Bishop Gronor ift next to him. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
roan and President, THOMAS S. McCABE, '22, a vote of thanks for his superlative work in the organization and de\*elopnient oE this banquet. 
DAVE CONDON, ex. '46, "Chicago Tribune" sports writer, keeps monng more and more into the professional writing field. He has had several articles appearing in Sunday s>*ndicated graphic sec­tions and other works running in nationally dis­tributed magarines. . . . JOSEPH D. SHELLY, '25, last >Tar's club president, was recently named vice-president of Chicago Title and Trust. . . . ROBERT OTOOLE, M5, has turned over the management of the Yacht Qub to brother DOX.ALD OTOOLE, '31, and returned to the advertising department of the Hoover Company. 
WILLUM "RED" AUHER, '24, has taken o.-cr new duties in the executive offices of HalUcraftcr Radio. . . FRANK A- McCARTHY, '06, has now recovered from his illness, and is back in his law office and assisting the club in its football rally. . . ANGELO BERTELLI, '43, now a member of the Chicago Rockets team, is doing a very proficient job as press box obser\"er for the Rockets. His knee injury keeps him on the inactive list. 
PAUL BRODERICK, *26, business manager of the Paramount Chicago offices, has been traneferred to the New York office. . . FRANCIS .T. McCURRlE. '27, Public Defender for Cook Count>*, recently announced his retirement to return to pri^-ate prac­tice. . . The RICHARD CREEVY'S, '44, announced the birth of another potential Notre Dame back last month. ROBERT LONERGAN 
Cincinnofi 
On July 9 the club held its annual stag picnic for members and guests at the Miami Boat Club. BILL MIDDENDORF, JR., and his committee of BOB HUGHES, BOB CHENAL, BOB LEONARD, BERT SCHLOEMER, and BOB BURKE were m charge. Much credit is due them for the excellent attendance since the weather was not in their favor that day. 
Top attraction of the afternoon was the softball game between the Tired Businessmen's Unit, cap­tained by JOE MORRISSEY, and the Yearlings, captained by ED MERSMAN. Under extreme pressure of a protesting committee of the former, the final score has been stricken from the public records. 
Follouang the excellent steak dinner senxd by the Boat Club, e\'ening sports director, WALTER WUEBBOLD of Hamilton, O., kept the members enthused for a long time. 
The club lost a great friend and member— HOWARD ROHAN. President, WALTER NIE­NABER appointed AL CASTELLINI, DICK SCAL­LON, JOE MORRISSEY, JACK BRODBERGER. BOB LEONARD and himself as honorary pallbearers. The entire club paid the respects due to such a.i outstanding alumnus. 
The Kick-OfF Dinner was held at the Hotel Ahns on Oct. 14. Business items discussed included im­portant football excursions sponsored by the dub to the Purdue, Northwestern, Navy and Tulane games as WTU as the approaching scholarship ball. Guest speaker of the evening was Waite Hoyt, noted ball pla>'er and sports announcer. 
JOHN C. COTnNGHA^f 
Clevefond 
The student dance held at the Lake Shore Country Club on August 23 was a huge success. A good crowd of the alumni turned out. 
The golf party at Pine Ridge Country Club on Aug. 28 was fun for all, espeaally for those who take their golf in the lighter vein. BILL VAN ROOY and lARRY KRAL, co-chairmen, assisted by DOC "BUD" O'BRIEN, BOB MORRISSEY and JACK COLEAfAN, directed a fine day for ever>*one. COACH JOE McARDLE was guest speaker, gi\ang us a preview of the football team. I might add too that Joe is a real diplomat, a master at re­viewing his field and stiff arming his would be tack­lers, but, oh, in such a gentle manner. Joe was a prize winner, too. Low score, wasn't it, Joe? Coadi was preceded by PRESIDENT HUGH 
O'NEILL and university trustee JOHN P. MURPHY. 
The highfight of the e\-ening was JERRY HAM­MER'S award. It was a pig, a real rootin*, snartin' hunk of pork donated by HUGH O'NEILL. 
The club officers. Board of Governors, and Board of Advisors met at President O'NEILL'S home Sept. 29, to start the ball rolling on the drive for funds for the Cleveland Club Scholarship Fund. FRANK ^fcGRODER is chairman and is being assisted bv JOHN REIDY, VINCE MURPHY, FRANK PAYNE, JIM TINNEY and JACK COLEMAN. 
The camp^ugn is now in high gear. Ttus is one event that everyone is behind 100 per cent, for the winner is not one of us but some needy boy from Greater Cleveland. 
The Nav>--Notre Dame week-end here in Cleve­land is being planned to assure everyone in town for the game a wonderful time. General co-chair­men ED CAREY and BILL VAN ROOY, assisted by ED KILEEN and JIM UPRICHARD as raUy and dance chairmen, and JERRY HA^IMER as luncheon chairman, have promised us a week-end without a hitch, and they're just the guys that can do it. 
Let us again extend to all alumni an in\^tation to join us that week-end here in Cleveland. A gala football rally and dance will be held Friday night in Hotel Carter's Rainbow Room, ^vith the scholar­ship rafHe taking place at 12 midnight. Saturday noon the press luncheon at the stadium will precede the game. 
Saturday night a Victory Dance will be held at Hotel Carter for the visiting students and the city's guests. FRANK J. McGRODER, JR. 
Connecffcuf Valley 
Summer sunburns were left behind for another year as the club gathered for its first fall meeting in Hartford on Sept. 5. Plans were initiated for another busy year of actiWtics. 

Preliminary- arrangements are being made for a corporate Communion and Communion breakfast to be held jointly with other alumni groups in this area. No definite date has been set for the affair as yet, but representatives from several Catholic colleges have indicated that they wilt participate. Among them are Holy Cross, Boston College, Catholic University, Villanox-a, Fordham, Georgetown, and Providence. Catholic graduates of non-Catholic colleges will also attend. This is the first time, to our knowledge, that anything of this sort has been attempted here. In addition to being a great demonstration of Faith, it should serve to bind more closely together the several Catholic alumni groups in this vicinity. 
This is the busy season for our treasurer, TIM 
CLUB LUNCHEONS 
AKRON — Kraker's Old Heidelberg Bestourcmt—every first Tuesday 
CENTRAL OHIO (Columbus)—Uni­versity Club—every Monday 
CHICAGO—Deutsch's RestauranL 28 
N. Dearborn SL—every third Wed­nesday 
DES MOINES —Savery Hotel—every iirst Friday 
FLORIDA (>Gami)—Downtown Club —every first Monday (5:30 p. m.) 
INDIANAPOLIS —Canary Cottoge — every Tuesday 
MILWA1IKEE — Maryland Hotel — every Thursday 

MURPHY. Tim^ who manages to keep in very ^ dose Couch with his first love, football, is president of the Hartford Touchdown Qub. The organiza­tion is composed of coaches, sports writers (including youn truly), and just plain football bugs. It sponsors a series of interesting evenings throughout the foot­ball season. DON FOSKETT 
Denver 
Edward James Smith, 18, outstanding student and athlete of Pueblo Centennial High School, was the proud wnner of the 1947 scholastic scholarslup award to Notre Dame made annually by the dub to a Colorado boy. 
Smith, an honor student, earned eight major athletic letter awards at Pueblo Centennial. He led the Centennial football team as quarterback for three years, being selected on the All-League team. He was captain of the track team, co-captain of the wrestling team and a member of the high school ^-anity basketball squad. 
In beginning his college career in the Physical Edu­cation department at Notre Dame, young Smith in­tends to follow in the footsteps of his father, Ed. |C 
J. Smith who is athletic director at Centennial High *­School and one of the most honored and respected coaches in the region. 
Three other Colorado bo^-s preceded South to Notre Dame as winners of the dub scholarship award. They are: ARTHUR ANDERSON, JOHN 0*MALLEY, and ROBERT FLYNN. 
The committee which <ionsidercd the appUca^ons and scholastic qualifications of many high school applicants from every part of Colorado was com^ posed of CHARLES A. HASKELL, chairman; A. 
L. DOUDS, ALFRED M. 0*MEARA, JR., DR. JOHN HEMMING, and FRANKLIN CONWAY. 
De% Moines 
The monthly noon luncheon meeting of the dub, normally hdd on the first Friday of each month, was postponed from Friday, Sept. 5 to Tuesday, Sept. 9, in order to have as our guests the former Noli*e Dame players who are now with the Boston Yanks and the Los Angdes Rams, pro football teams. These two teams played in a National Professional Football League exhibition game in Des Moines. 
At luncheon in the Hotel Sa\*ery, CLIPPER SMITH, coach of the Boston Yanks, introduced thc ^ members of his team from Notre Dame: FRANK •* DANCEWICZ and JIM MELLO. GEORGE TRAP­TON, assistant coach of the Los Angdes Rams, in­troduced members of the Rams who are former 
N. D. men: STEVE BAGARUS, GERRY COWHIG, JACK ZILLY and BOB DAVID. 
CHARLES A. SWEENEY, *38, acted as field judge for the game. 
Two former Notre Dame men have recently mo\-cd to Des Moines: EARL WALSH, former coach at DowlJng High School, Des Afoines is now living at the Franklin Hotd; and NICK LAMBERTO, who has joined the sports staff of the "Register and Tribune." 
Des Moines this year h£,d the pleasure of having a Notre Dame man, PAUL LAMKIERS, as a pitcher on the Des ^loines Cubs, Western League basd>aU team. Paul attended the last Notre Dame Club meeting. 
We have just been advised that JIM KESSELL is now enrolled in U.C.L.A., and we suggest some of the local Califomians get in touch with him. 
The Western Amateur Golf Tournament was hdd in July at the Wakonda Club, Des Moines. It was like old bome-week for Notre Dame golfers. The following Notre Dame men were entered in the tournament: TOM SHEEHAN, Detroit; SAM NIELD, Des Moines; PHIL DONAHUE, Sioux City. la; BILLY CASTLENL\N, Los Angdes; and JOE LaFORTUNE, Tulsa. Three of them—Sheehan^ Donahue and LaFortune—were among the 64 t ^ qualify for match play. Sheeban advanced to the semi-finals, and, after having Frank Stranahan 5 down at the end of the first nine in their 36-hole matdi, lost to Frank, 4 and 3. On July 16, the dub entertained the visiting Notre Dame golfen at dinner at Wakonda. The followii^ dub members 
Volume 25, No. 5, October. 1947 
attended H. H. DREY, JOHN CORCORAN, JIM KESSELL, ED POSNER, VIC BECKER, JOE WHALEN, ((president), JERRY HARRINGTON, BOB TIERNAN, FRED NESBIT, JACK DREY, JACK SIEVERT and LYMAN HUGHES. 
LOU KURTZ 

Florida 
The club met in July m Miami and elected GEORGE BRAUTIGA^f, president; I. I. PROBST, vice-president; JOHN KOTTE, secretary, and URB KOKENGE, treasurer. 
The first annual summer dance u-as held in the Coral Gables Country- Club, with dancing in the patio under the stars and s^*-a>-ing palm trees. The regular monthly meeting xs-as held on Sept. 15. 
The club expects a big winter season and extends an invitation to all visiting alumni who are coming to the Afiami area for the winter. Meetings arc held on first Monday of each month at 5:30 P. M. at the Downtown Club. I. I. PROBST 
Grand Rapids & Wesfern Michigan 
The club presented for a summer activity an in­formal picnic and party on Aug. 2 at the home of JOHN PRAWDZIK, Spring Lake 
Major prizes were aw-ardcd to JOHN FREDER­ICK, JOHN PRAWDZIK, and GEORGE WEISS. GEORGE E. LUDWIG at the accordion and EDWARD BRENNAN at the piano contributed both Bach and boogie woogie. 
The Committee in charge included LEO LINCK, Muslegon, and GEORGE A. JACKOBOICE, co-chairmen, assisted by ROBERT N. ALT, HENRY FOX, DON LEVANDOSKI, FREDERICK C. GAST, JOHN PRAWDZIK, A. JOHN ALT, PHILIP FRITZ, JOHN FREDERICK, FRANK DONOVAN, and JOSEPH RILEY. 
GEORGE A. JACKOBOICE 

Harrisburg 
At the May meeting of the club the following kofBcers were appointed for the year: president, 
•^FRANCIS
 C. BARBUSH, '37, 123 South Third St , Harrisburg, Penna. and secretary-treasurer, EDW/\RD 

R.
 ECKENRODE, Jr., '46, 2929 N. Second Street. 


E. R. ECKENRODE, JR. 
JOHN A. SCOTT. '38. a fonner Ma­rine major, received the Silver Star, October 1. in South Bend, more than two years alter the cessation of hostilities. 
He olreadY has the Bronze Star medal for bravery in action, the Piuple Heart for wounds incurred at Guam, and a letter of commenda­tion signed by Admiral W. F. (Bull) Halsey. A section within the Third division base camp area on Guam was nomed Scott square in his honor. 
Jack was married in 1945 and has a daughter several weeks old. He is a sales representative in South Bend for a tire valve corporation. 

Indianapolis 
The club direclorj', "Men of Notre Dame," was finally completed by the printer in mid-July and mailed out to all club members at that time. JOHN 
C. 0*CONNOR th'd a grand job in gathering material and preparing the booklet for publication; it is the hope of the dub to publish an edition each year, keeping the complete membership up to date. 
On Aug. 31 ED CUNNINGHAM served as chair­man for the annual golf tournament and banquet, held this year at the Hillcrest Golf and Cotmtry Club. Ed, with the assistance of HENRY ENGLE, DAVE CONNOR and JOHN R. WELCH, reaUy "broke his back" in making this year's event the best ever. REV. ROBERT H. SWEENEY. C.S.C.. highlighted the evening by giving in detail the plan of HARRY G. HOGAN, nau'onal alumni president. Spedfd guests of the day induded HARRY G. HOGAN, Fort Wayne, the RT. REV. PAUL C. SCHULTE, archbishop of Indianapolis, REV. JOHN REIDY, Indianapolis, and JIM ARMSTRONG. alumni secretary. 
LARRY SEXTON carried off top honors in the golf tourney, \*-inning an all expense trip to Chicago for the Chicago Bears-CoUege All-Stais football game. This year it was well worth a golfer's while to play as 59 prizes awaited some 65 entrants. 
On Sept. 11 some 150 couples braved the rain to attend a sunixncr party at the Soathem Mirni**, The dance was staged by the fellows still atteacfiiiK the University. TOM BRODEN and LEO BARN­HORST were the chairmea for the undergraduates while HENRY ENGLE acted as chairroan-rcyeKa­tative for the alumoi. 
Ftans and rcser\'ations are really booming oa the Specials that we are running this fall to the Iowa, Navy, Northwestern and Tulane games. Anroae Unng in the vidnity of Indianapolis wishing to book passage on any of these trains get in touch with PAT FISHER, 616 Indiana Trust Building. Imfia^ napoUs 4. NICK CONNOR 
Kansas City 
The dub, now in process of reorganization, is spon­soring a benefit drive for a Notre Dazne Scfaolarsliip Fund in coimecdon with the Notre Dame Army game Nov. 8. JIM GRAHAM, chairman, reports that returns have been very good. A tentative dinner has been set for late October to dimax the Scholar­ship Fund drive. 
A special train will leave Kansas City Oct. 17 for the Nebraska game and no doubt a large Notre Dame following will make the trip. 
The annual outing at DR* NIGRO'S farm, spon­sored by many Notre Dazne alumni and folIo%vers, was bd d last month. A very enjoyable evening was had by all despite indement weather. 
JOE VAN DYKE 

Kentucky 
The club lost one of its most active and beloved members in tbe passing away of BILL fiOSLER last August. Club members as a body acted as pall bearei5. 
We have had quite a turn over of members lately. BOB MILLET is attending the Law school at the University of Southern California. ROBERT SASS has recently been transfeied to Birmingham, Ala., where he is treasurer for the Loveman, Joseph, and Loeb Co., a department store. DR. BSRNIE SCHOO is now on active duty with the Navy, having finished bis internship here in Louisville. JACK McKENNA, who recently finished his graduate studies at the Univenity of Louisville leading to a Master's in Chemical Engineering, is leaving for Elizabeth, N. J., where he will work for the Stan­dard Oil Co. 
Taking Jack's place at V. of L. is ED DOWD, recent N. D. graduate who also majors in Chemical Engineering. Other new members of the Club who recently finished at Notre Dame are: BUD WILLEN­BRINK, BILL GATES, OSCAR VON ALLMEN 
When the Boston Yanks and the Los Angeles Hams of the National FoolboU League got together in Dea Mbine« lor an exhi­bition game, the local club observed the occasion with the splendid gathering pictured here. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
and DICK AHERN. Tbc latter Is from u-ay down New Orleans \tay, having come to Louis^'ille, after Sradttation, to work for International Har\'ester. 
Another new member, but not a recent graduate, is EMMETT BROGAN, formerly from the Detroit area, who has been transfered to the new Inter­national Har\-ester Plant in Lotiisnllc. 
MR. and MRS. PIERRE ANGERMEIER have a new addition to the family as of June 5, known as James Bruce. MARIAN HEFFERNAN is making preparations for leaving the bachelor life in the \Tr>­near future as is also JACK. McKEXNA, who wili marry Miss Glona Schulic next spring. 
On Sept. 5 the Ntre Dame fall dance u-as held at the Colonial Gardens. The dance was a farewell to the returning students who have cooperated &o heartily in the iummer activities of the club. . Under the chairmanship of TOM BULLEIT, two foodiall trips to Notre Dame for the Iowa and Tulane games will be made. As in the past tlie trip will be by chartered bus stopping over night at Indianapolis. 
Extcnsi^-e plans arc being made to increase our Scholarship Fund through an all-expense paid trip for two to the Army game. JACK. ifcKEXN.-V and JOE DON.\LDSON are the two able members in charge of the affair. 
The Notre Dame Bowling League has started again. Lyons, Dillon, St. Ed's, and Sorin captained bv P. ANGERMEIER, L- AUBREY, T. BULLEIT and 
P. GREENE respectively, make up the league. We hope it will be as successful as last year in getting the new members acquainted with the club. 
OTTO J. MILETI 
Los Angeles 
The club's big summer affair was a picnic held at Pop's Willow Lake on June 22. More than 400 attended, including 200 children. A party on Aug. 3 in a local brewery failed to attract many due to the absence of many members on \-acation. On account of the poor attendance another party, scheduled for September was cancelled. 
About 100 were present at the dinner in honor of FATHER SWEENEY on Sept. U. Toastmastcr TOM HEARN, Foundation governor for California, called on Father Sweeney as the principal speaker. Also heard from were BILL SARGE-A-NT, Loyola football coach; JUDGE A. A. SCOTT of the Superior Court; and FATHER O'CONNELL, chaplain of the new Notre Dame High School in San Fernando Valley. 
Plans for the rally in the Biltmore ballroom on the e\-e of the Southern Cal game on De c 5 are Hearing completion under the chairmanship of VERNE RICKARD assisted by JUDGE CAK­BERRY, JOHN RIDER, LOU BERARDI, and NEIL RAU. Noted for the outstanding entertain­ment at past rallies, which has included such stars as Pat O'Brien, Mickey Rooney, Frank Fay, Don Ameche, Red Skclton, and others too numerous to mention, this j-ear's event promises to be even bigger and better. This year the gathering is being called a rally instead of a smoker, because we want to make it plain that women are welcome. We understand that no less than seven tours are being made to the game from the east, and wc are eager to have all visiting Notre Dame men at the rally. 
Also cooking are plans for a sports' dinner to be held the first week in November. TOM ASHE 
Michigan City, Indiana 
The newly organized dub elected HUGH BURNS, '39, president; FRANCIS FEDDER, '31, \-icc­
president; JOHN DONNELLY, '39, secretan-; and JOHN O'NEILL, '47, treasurer. FRED PILLIARD, ex. '29, and LOUIS ROHLOF. '32, were elected directors for one->-ear terms; MARK STOREN, '22, and DR. CYRIL VOJACK., ex. '37, for two-year terms; and FRANTC HAGER, ex. '31, and TOM KERRIGAN for three-j-ear terms. 
The officers and directors have drafted a con­stitution and by-laws for submission to the club members for ratification at the next meeting. 
JOHN DONNELLY 

New York City 
The 1947 scholarship award to the Uni\-crsity went to BRUNO CHAHEL, Patchogue, N. Y. The club's eighth scholarship award, it was awarded this year for the first time since the war. Alternate selection for Bruno, who had a 94-pIus a\'erage, was JOHN MURR.-\Y, a graduate of All Hallows High School. DANIEL P. HIGGINS was r^h^'^r^^n of the Selection Committee, which induded DAN O'NEILL and JORDAN HARGROVE. 
Appointment of ED BRACKEN to the regional directorship of public relations for -General Motors in Buffalo made it necessary- for him to resign from the dub's Board of Governors. He is succeeded by TOM WALKER, '42, son of former Postmaster General FRANK WALKER. 
The Notre Dsme Club of New York is mntiinff three special Pnllmiin traini from New York City to South Bend for tin Army eamc, accoFdin? to the annouice­ment of COIiSEitN 0*SHAUGHNi:SSY, chairman of the trip. The trains will leave Grand Central Friday, Nor. 7, at 6 
p. m., and inrlll arrive in South B^id at 
8:30 a. m. Satnrdny raomlnr. Xlwse Pullmans ivill be held on sidings near the University where the passengers will sleep Saturday nl^ht. Sunday afternoon the trains will retnm to New ¥ork, arrivinir in Grand Central around 7 a. m. BCcHiday. 
As this is written space is stiU avaU* able, and anybody interested in the trip shoold communicate immediately with the Notre Dame Club of New York, CI East 42nd St. N. Y. C. 17, or his local alamni dub. Alumni, families of students, and friends of the University are all welcome. PassenKers must of course provide their own came tickets. 
For those in New Ensland and Upstate New York, the train can be boarded at Albany at 8:4S p. m., at Syracuse at 11 
p. m., and, if cnooefa siffn up, a car may be available at Buffalo to book on when the New York specials c« throosh there at 2:30 a. m. Saturday raominr. 

FATHER JOHN CAVANAUGH, in a letter to BOB HAAHLTON, execuUve secretary, thanked the club for its gifts of $2,500 for legal lectures and $1,000 for the Bureau of Economic Research. *'No finer affirmance of devotion could be devised by the alumni of a University," Father Ca\anaugb wrote. "For m>-self and for the staff of the Uni\-ersity, I ask you to accept our heartfelt thanks. . ." 
GEORGE F. ROHRS, '33, and hU wife recenUy celebrated their Tenth Wedding Anniversary. This was more or less a Notre Dame reunion. 
JIM SHEILS, '35, who during the war was closely associated with Brigadier General William 
F. O'Dwyer, Intelligence Section Army Air Forces, was recendy appointed deputj* commissioner of in­vestigation of the City of New York by Mayor 0'Dw>-cr. This makes two Notre Dame men in the Cabinet of the mayor, Jim and ED RHATIGAN, commissioner of H^Ifare. 
CLAY JOHNSON is very busy these days in his capacity as general counsel to the Royal Liverpool Insurance Group. Clay has been very helpful within the past few years in assisting fellows in getting jobs and helping us get speakers for our various affairs. 
FRANK REILLY, assistant secretary of the club, has been delegated the job of getting speakeis for our monthly dub meetings. Frank turned up some good men in the past and we look forward to a very enjoyable group of speakers for the coming year. JOHN A. HOYT, JR. 
Ohio Valley 
Reorganized last March, the dub dected new officers in June but as yet has not drawn up a constitution and by-laws. Secretary WILLIAM J. VEAGER and members are busy on a new organi­zational set-up. 
New officers are: DR. W. E. ACKERMANN, 

Wheding, president; SYLVESTER J. DOUGH­
ERTY, SteubenviUe, vice-president; WILLIAM 
DUSCH, Wheeling, treasurer; and WILLIAM J. 
YEAGER, Wheeling, secretary-. 
WILLIAM J. YEAGER 

JtocAesfer. N. Y. 
At a mctting held Sept. 24 at the Sheraton Hotel, the new ofHcers were elected: president, WILLIAM 
R. BELL; vice president, WILLIAM D. O'TCXJLE; treasurer, FRANK NORTON; secretary-, RICHARD 
J. MILLER; officer-at-Iarge, JOHN R. KLEE. 
Past president, JOSEPH GERAGHTY was selected to attend the Alumni Convention at the University. You may direct correspondence to him at this address: 50 Quentin Rd., Rochester 9, N. Y. 
Tentative plans were made for a Communion gT breakfast with PHIL O'CONNOR as chairman. ^ RICHARD V. MILLER 
ftoclr River Valley 
The dub's annual picnic on Aug. 10 drew a large gathering of alumni and students to the festivities which started at 11 in the morning and continued until late in the evening. Held at JOE BITTORF'S Lodge on Rock River, Sterling, III., the numerous picnic activities induded archery, bad­minton, boating, horseshoes, rifle target shooting, Softball and swimming. A smorgasbord luncheon was served during the day. 
Proceeds of the picnic, which was a huge success, are being used by the dub to start a scholarship fund. 
A board of directors chosen by the dub under a new plan of organization indudes JOHN CAHILL, Dbton, HI., NED BICKFORD, Sterling; RAY MARELLI, Rockford; DOUG GRANT, Frecport; PAUL O'NEIL, Rochdie; and RUSS VAN KUREN, Rockford. DON HENNESSY 
St. Louis 
The annual summer picnic turned out to be ^ real success this >'ear with a splendid turnout on the part of the dub members. Just about everyone was there. 
Our student alumni send-ofT party was hdd on Sept. 8. This get-together gave the bo>-s entering the Uniii'ersity a chance to meet their classmates and alumni members of St. Louis. The movie of the history of Notre Dame was shown with CHARLIE GIOMI behind the projector and JOE McGLYNN ddivcred a very eloquent and forceful send-oft speech to the departing students. 
The dub is "selling" two trips, u-ilh all expenses paid, to the Notre Dame-Army game. All the pro­ceeds go touard the scholarship fund. WALTER GEORGE, MARTY HUGHES, and ROLAND DAMES are in charge of this event. 
BERT COUGLIN and AL RAVARINO have just about completed all the plans for the fcx>tball trips. Navy at Cle\'eland, and N^orthu-estern at Evaiuton. 
JAMES O'NEAL 

Sioux City 
The organization of a dub in Sioux City has been started fay a small group made up of ED SIMON­ICH, FRANK FITCH, JOHN McHUGH, RAY DUGGAN, JOHN MULHALL, BILL BIRAHNG­HAM, HUBERT EVERIST, MATT FLINN, auk BOB MANNING. W 
About 40 persons attended the first meeting lasl month, of whom comparatl\-eIy few were alumni. The football ^.^Highlights of '46" were shown. Add­itional organizational meetings will be hdd in the future. BOB MANNING 
Volume 25, No. 5, October, 1947 
' S. W, Connecticut 
The rcorsanizcd club has JOHN GALLA as president, NICK LANESE as vice-president and FRANK McGEE as secretary* An outing in August turned out a surprisingly large attendance from the Bridgeport area as well as a good delegation from Hartford. Tlie club has a full program ahead, in cooperation with the new Notre Dame group which is getting under way in New Haven. The Holy Cross Brothers, operating the new Notre Dame High School in New Haven, will be an important part of the latter club. 
St, Joseph Valley 
As this is written, the club is engaged with prepara­tions for Friday evening parties on the eve of each Notre Dame home game. Parties will be held as follows: 
Oct. 17, chairman, JOHN PLOUFF. Oct. 24, chairman, BOB SWEENEY. Nov. 7, chairman, FRANCIS JONES. Nov. 21, chairman, BILL BRODERICK. 

All of the parties are to be stag affairs in the Oliver Hotel, with the one exception of the Nov, 7 
^ affair, which will be a rally and dance in the Indiana Club. Advance table reserx-ations for this particular party arc necessarj' and your reserx-ation should be directed to BILL HOSINSKI at the law offices of Jones, Obenchain & Butler, South fiend. The cJiainnan for this affair assures us of a great \-ariety of top quality entertainment. Further details arc available on this page of the "Alumnus." 
The club's activities in cooperation with the Uni­\Trsity and with regard to the Notre Dame Founda­tion are proceeding in a most satisfactor>* manner. A special dinner program was held Sept. II, at which the Cii>- Chairmen, BERNARD VOLL and E. M. MORRIS, along with FATHER JOHN CAVA­NAUGH,. sounded the key-note for the club. A further meeting for the purpose of organization was held in early October. 
The officers and directors have given considerable time in recent weeks to the preparation of an accu­rate list of all dub members in the St. Joseph Valley. A list of members was obtained from the University and was checked with telephone lUrectories as well as city directories. We are hopeful, there­fore, that our records at present are much more accurate. It is interesting to note that the club now numbers 1,419 members throughout the St. Joseph Valley. F. M. MESSICK 
Tri-Cities 
Club members last winter cooperated with St. Ambrose High School, Davenport, la., in entertain­ing JOE BOLAND and JOHNNY LUJACK, who were guest speakers at the schoors Dad's Club dinner. 
On U.N.D. night the club's dinner was attended by 36 members and their wives, and 40 members and their wives chartered a small excursion boat in August for an evening ride on the Mississippi. 
Triple Cities 
The autumn get-together u-as in the form of a mixed clambake, which from all indications, promises, to be an annual event. The bake was held at Foley's Grove on Sept. 28. 
REV. JOSEPH B. TOOMEY, director of Catho­lic Charities of the diocese of Syracuse, was the honorary chairman. JOSEPH T. HUNT, was general chairman and was assisted by REGIS McNAMARA. Ticket chairman: JOHN F. DON­NELLY. Publicity chairman: and DENNIS B. FOLEY, chairman of the Guests and InvitaUon Committee. The affair was most successful—both from the standpoint of finance and attendance. FRANK O'BRIEN, Elmira, made the trip and brought along all the Notre Dame men from that vicinity. Frank is really faithful. 
Tentative plans call for a stag affair in November, with more definite plans to be announced later. 
JOHN TOOMEY and family are now living in Portland, N. Y. DICK BURCHELL, now a incmber >f our dub, is living in Johnson City and is asso­aated with International Business Machines Corp. rED GRIFFIN has moved to Endicott, N. Y., but is still one of our most active members. FRAN TOOMEY is the proud father of twrin boys. JOHN REIRDON is with the Erie Railroad. DR. THO.MAS MURPHY is practicing in Johnson City. 
REGIS McNAMARA has Just been appointed Broome County highway engineer and is coaching the American Legion football team during his spare moments. SAM WEIR, of the class of '01, was the oldest alumnus at our bake. Sam is as en­thusiastic as ever in regard to Notre Dame. JOE CHECCHIA is now living in Utica. ED HOGAN is the proud father of a baby girl. He is a member of the Binghamton Police Department. PETE VVACKS was back in town last week for a short visit. JIM HOGAN 
Tucson 
Members gathered at a luncheon last month at which the club was reorganized- The club is now formulating plans for the Foundation program. 
DR. JESSE H. ROTH, *I0, is now practidng mcdidnc in Tucson, while DR. LOUIS J. CENNI, MO, has left the city, moving to Baltimore, Md. 
TIM KING, '37, formerly of Niles, O. and South Bend, is now liring in Tucson with his family. He is in the laundry business with his father. PAUL J. DUF-AUD 
Washingfon, D. C. 
The club got off to a good start for the season with an opening attendance of 83 alumni at its first fall meeting held in the Carlton Hotel on Sept. !ti. This was a special meeting, called to adopt a written constitution. The constitution, which was modeled after that proposed by the Alumn! Association, was adopted in its entirety. 
The dub ex[>ects to get out a directory of all Notre Dame men in the Washington area in the very near future. This directory will list all the members of the dub as well as the officers, and will contain a copy of the newly adopted constitution. It w-ill also contain the program for the year's activities. 
At this first meeting the dub played host to the bo}'S from this area who returned to the campus this fall. Ten of the campus bo>-s showed up and saw President DAN CULHANE present to their presi­dent, ROBERT SCHELLENBERG, a gift of dub stationer}' to be used by their dub for campus activities. 
Plans were announced for the Navy Game rally to be held at the Carlton Hotel on Nov. L 
Among the new faces at this meeting were the foUowing: WILUAM A. BRANIGAN, DR. WALT­ER J. BRENNAN, JR., DR. JAMES M. COR­CORAN, AUGUST B. FIPP, JAMES W. KELLY. JOHN P. MANNING, WALTER J. SHORT, GERALD E. SKOFRONCK, JOHN R; VICARS, TIGHE E. WOODS and THOMAS J. NOON. 
HAROLD V. BOISVERT 

WestVirgiaia 
The annual sonuDer {ucnlc was hdd on Aug. 16, with the foUomng members and their familiei in attendance: MAX HILL, BILL MINGES, JOE NEENAN, BILL KENNEY, VINCENT REISH­MAN. AL KESSING, LARRY HESS, WALT TOUS­SAINT, FRANK SHEETS, BOB SHOEMAKER, and HUGH LODER. Bill Kenney won the hone-shoe contest when he pitched three dose ringos. Softball and plenty of refreshments bdpcd to round out a successful aftemfx>n. 
The dub extends sympathy to AL KESSING on the death of his father, Aug. 3, in Oldenburff, Ind. 
JIM MALLOY, one of the dub's "founcEi^ fathers,*' was in Charleston, ivith his iainily, recently. Jim is located in Huntington, W. Va., %ntb the telephone company. JOHN CACKLEY 
Wilkes-Bairre 
Emergii^ from the summer doldrums, the club is planning an extensive program of fail and winter activities. First on the' list is the organization of a strong Scholarship Committee and a drive for funds. Close cooperation with activities of Kings Collie in WUkcs Barre and several Catholic Action meetings with alumnae of Marywood College are also scheduled. 
Already active on committees are: DR. JOHN BRADY, JOSEPH NEUWIRTH, ED ROWAN, HUGH CAMPBELL, CHARLES BAAB, and DR. MAURICE REGAN. 
The dub held its first U.N.D. Night last Apnl, to which the Scranton du b was invited. Forty persons, about 90 per cent of the membership of the two dubs, attended. Next year's affair %vill be run by the Scranton Club. 
THOMAS BROCK athletic director and football coach at Kings College, was presented a gift by the dub. FATHER FRANK CAVANAUGH'S lecture in Wilkes Baire was well atended by dob members. TONY O'flOYLE 
SOUTH BEND WARM-UP FOR THE ARMY GAME Indiana Club, Friday, Nov. 7, 9:15 p.in. 
Get into condition for the big game with elbow exercises, table hopping and friendly felicitations. 
For your entertainment: 
I. An outstanding M.C. 

2.
 Dorothy Donnegan—"The Queen of The Classics & Swing." 

3.
 Lenny Gale with his hilarious take off of tomorrow's television today. 


4. Other outstanding celebrities. $3.00 per person, including tax. (NOTE: The capacity of The Indiana Club is 
limited. Early reservations are essential). Make checks payable to: 
William A. Hosinski 800 I.O.O.F. Bldg. South Bend 8, Ind. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 
The Notre Doane Alumnus 

THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 

Miss Regis Grace Foote and JOHN F. CROWLEY, '47. 
Miss Anne Hcngclbrok and GEORGE W. RATTERMAN. ex. '48. 
Miss Laurie O'Meara and JAMES A. VARGA, '46. 
^liss Roxy Ann LaCav'a, daughter of PETER M. LaCAVA, '26, and Julius C. Wcrbrouck, Jr. 
Miss Rita Elaine Sorrentino and A. MARC ZOILO, '44. 
Miss Sarah Ann McAndrews and LOUIS FOX, '38. 
Miss Patrida McDonald, daughter of DONNELLY 
P. MCDONALD. '12, and George C. KcUer. 

Miss Margaret Ann Foley and JOSEPH F. HAAS, ex. '43. 
IbCss Gladi-s Winer and DOMINIC F. BOETTO, '44. 
Miss Martha Taghon and JAMES J. FREDLAKE, '46. 
Miss Marguerite Cooke and JAMES J. COLE­MAN. '46. 
Miss Jayne Virginia Lair and ARTHUR N. Bec-VAR, '33. 
Marriages 

XGss Marie D. HosinsVi and CH.MU.ES W. MAG­NER, '40, South Bend, Sept. 30. 
Miss Constance Margaret Cullinan and JOHN P. SCULLY, Jr., '41, South Portland, Maine, Aug. 30. 
Miss Rita Elizabeth Saradge and PAUL LARSON, '43, Indianapolis, Sept. 27. 
AGss Mary Margaret Schramm and EVALD "MIKE" RODIN, '44, Burlington, Io»-a, June 7. 
Miss Margaret Frances Shea and JOSEPH F. GALL. '44. Nashau, N. H., June 14. 
Miss Alice Mary Carney and Ens. VINCENT A. DOLAN. '46. Oucago, Sept. 13. 
Miss Dorothy Mary Griffin and DR. JOHN UTZ. ex. '44. Maiden, Mass., July 2. 
Xfiss Mary Alice Jackson and JOSEPH A. MO­NEY, '47, Sonth Bend. Sept. 21. 
Miss Maxjne Lapp and JAMES A. POINSATTE. '43, Fort Wayne, Ind., May 10. 
Miss Hdene Yennylen and WILLIAM H. SCUL­LY, '43, Brookls-n, Oct. 18. 
Miss Bonnie Larkin and JOHN FREDERICK NIMS, '37, Chicago, Sept. 14. 
Miss Ruth A. Bamnbach and CHARLES H. SAMSON. Jr., '47, South Bend, Sept. 18. 
Miss Marion Wanda Larison, and BERNARD A. SWANSER, '40, La JoUa, CaUL, Sept. 10. 
Miss Anne Emery Handlcy and JAMES P. O'LAUGHLIN, '42, Prout's Neck, Maine, Aug. 16. 
Miss Lay Eundice MobiUe and NICHOLAS J. PAPPAS. '43, Loiain, Ohio, Sept. 8. 
Miss Marianne Huenuncr and CHARLES H. ROONEY, ex. 46, South Bend, Sept. 6. 
Miss Rosemarie Luhbers and GERALD A. HICK­EY, '41, South Bend, Oct. 11. 
Miss Mar>- Louise Lucitt and JOHN L. HARRI­GAN, '43, Los Angeles, CaUf., July 12. 
Miss Emily Ramsay Young and JOHN M. MARTIN, ex. '41. Larchmonl, N. Y., Aug. 9. 
Miss Gu'cndoh'n Angela Dosmann and OLEN L. PARKS, ex. '42, South Bend, Aug. 23. 
Miss Katherin Patricia ^fcGinnis and JAMES C. ANDREWS, '45, Pitcarn, Pa., June 21. 
Miss Harriet Louise Szumski and CHARLES F. FROBERGER, '44, South Bend, Aug. 9. 
Miss Catharine Ruth Waters and FRANK A. CACCIAPAGLIA, JR., '47, Staunton, Va., June 14. 
Miss Margery Mary Pcrrot and EDWARD J. DUNLAVY, Jr., '42, Akron, Ohio, Sept. 28. 
Births 
Mr. and Mrs. LEO R. McINTYRE, '28, announce the birth of Edward Sorin, Sept. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS C. ANDERSON, ex. '46. announce the birth of a son, Sept. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. A. M. RESPONDEK, '39, announce the birth of Thomas Ed>«'ard, Aug. 25. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH W. KNOTT, '42, an­nounce the birth of Barry Christopher, Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mis. H. SMITH KEEL, '47, announce the birth of Henry Smith, Sept. 10. 
Mr. and Mn. RICHARD J. GARAB, '39. an­nounce the birth of a son. Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN G. O'CONNELL. JR.. '44, announce the birth of ^lichael Joseph, Sept. 18. 
Mr. and Mis. CHARLES F. DALY, '38, announce the birth of Holly Anne. 
Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE T. DEMETRIO, '35, an­nounce the birth of Thomas A., Sept. 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. ICADDEN, '42. an­nounce the birth of William Brewster, Jr., Sept. 17. 
Mr. and Mn. JOHN M. WELCH, '40, announce the birth of Mary Harrington, March, 31, 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. WOODS. '41. announce the birth of Judith. May 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. BASKERVILLE. '31. announce the birth of Mary Ann. Aug. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., '37, announce the birth of Stephen, Dec 22, 1946. 
Mr. and Mis. CLIFFORD E. PRODEHL. '32, announce the birth of Donald Kevin, Aug. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES M. KEARNEY, '42, announce the birth of Cathleen Mary. July 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. DUNLAY. '43, an­nounce the birth of Mary Martha, Sept. 2. 
Mr. and Mis. EUGENE L. O'BRIEN, '35, an­noimce the birth of a son, Aug. 23. 
Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR REGAN, ex. '45. an­nounce the birth of a son, Aug. 24. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN P. HICKEY, '47, announce the birth of John Patrick, Jr., Aug. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS A. KEEGAN, '30, an­nounce the birth of Elizabeth Talbot. Aug. 18. 
Mr. and Mis. JOHN G. JAEGER, '33. announce the birth of Mary Ruth, July 23. 
Mr. and Mis. JAMES J. GREEN, '39, announce the birth of James Jerome, Aug. 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. MALONE, '42, announce the birth of Kathleen Ellen, Aug. 28. 
Mr. and Mrs. JEROME M. DAVEY, '37, an­nounce the birth of Christopher, Aug. 29. 
Mr. and Mis. JOSEPH E. HANNAN, '39, an­nounce the birth of Joseph Edu-ard, Jr., Aug. 15. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A. FERENCE, ex. '39, an­nounce the birtli of Virginia Louise, Feb. 10. 

Mr. and Mrs. BENEDICT J. CHUNG. '42, an-^ nouncc the birth of Michael William, Aug. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H. LEVI, '37, announce the birth of Michael Patrick, Sept. 6. 
Mr. and Mis. ARCH KANE, ex. '45, announce the birth of Ann Margaret. 
Mr. and Mis. JAMES DURBIN, '47, announce the birth of a son. 
Deaths 
WILLIAM N. BOSLER, ex. '06, 1247 Everett Ave., LouisviUe, Ky., ^ed Aug. 1, in St. Joseph's lafirraary, Louisville, as was brieHy noted in the August issue. 
The sales manager ot the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Favii^ Materials, Mr. Rosier, \t-as one of the founders and the first president of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky 25 ^-ears ago. His industry and zeal were fundamental reasons for the continuous operation and growth of the club. 

The funeral was conducted Aug. 4 at St. Brid­gid's Church with a Solemn Requiem High Afass celebrated by Father lUchard Kfaloncy, who was ^•. asusted by two nephews of Mr. Rosier, Fathers^ Joseph M. and WiUiam H. Zahner, deacon and sub-deacon. Members of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky served as honorary and actii-e pallbearers. Burial wras in St. Louis cemetery. 
Surviving are his wife, a son, and four daughters, and his mother. 
ROBERT LEE (MATTY) MATTHEWS, *11, Portland, Ore., died of a heart attack in his home Sept. 1. 
Bom in Leadville, Colo., on Aug. 6, 1887, he gained fame as a regular end on the Notre Dame teams of 190&>09-10. He bes^n a SO-year coaching career at St. Edward's University, Austin, Tex., in 1915. He subsequently coached at Kenyon College, Ohio, Williamette University, Salem, Washington; and the University of Washington before becoming head coach at the University of Idaho, where he made the Vandals a major threat in the Pacific Coast Le^ue. Later he coached at Portland Uni­versity, Portland, Ore. At the time of his death he was in his third season as head coach of Levns and Clark College in Portland. 
Survivors include his wife, a daughter, a sister, and a brother. 

HOWARD J. ROHAN, '15, Cincinnati, died on Sept. 2, less than three months alter his close friend Father Hugh O'DoimeU, former pre«dent of the University. Bedfast wth arthritis for almost 20 years, Howard remained close and devoted l^ ^ Notre I^me and on occasion visited the campus i^P lus specially constructed automobile. Notre Dame people were also frequent visitors in his home in Cindnnati, where he was an ardent member of the local Notre Dame dub. 
Bcvn in Cincinnati, Howard was a lifelong resi­

Volume 25, No. 5, October, 1947 
dent of that oty and was president of the Chum-gold Corp. there until illness forced his retirement. Bishop George J. Rehring officiated at the funeral Mass in St. Mary's Church. Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C., vice<president, represented the Uni­\'eisity. Honorary pallbearers were the following Notre Dame alumni: Albert CasteUini, Robert Leon­ard, Walter Nienaber, John Brodbergcr, Richard Scallan and Joseph Morrissey. A&s. Rohan, a daugh­ter and two sons, both alumni, Howard A. and Andrew H., survive. 
Word has been received from the post office of the death of J. KILBY CUMAHNGS, ex. '21, w^hose business address was: 517 Tide Guaranty BIdg., St. Louts, Afo. No other details were available as the ALUMNUS went to press. 
CHARLES J. 0*CONNELL, ex. '26, died Aug. U at his home on Pearson Rd., Holyoke, Mass., after a long illness. 
After leaving Notre Dame in 1925, Charlie Joined Daniel O'Connell & Sons, a construction firm. He remained with the concern and prior to his extended illness was vice-president. 
Funeral services were conducted in Blessed Sacra­mcnt Church, with burial in St. Jerome cemetery. 
Surviving are four brothers and three sisters. 
RT. REV. MSGR. PETER GUILDAY, LL.D.. '25, of Washington, D. C, died Aug. 1 in Washing­ton. 
Msgr. Guilday, who was 63 years old, was a member of the faculty of Catholic University jincc 1914 and a noted Church historian. 
JOSEPH M. O'DOWD, *28, died Aug. 10 at his ranch house near Austin, Tex., after a nine-month illness. 
Born in Kansas City, Joe joined his uncle as a partner in the Central Boarding and Supply Co. after graduating from Notre Dame. He managed many of the company's projects, including 66 Alcan highu'ay commissaries in Canada and Alaska. He was wee president of the Hutt Contracting Co. of Kansas City and Dallas, Tex. 
Before moving to Texas he vf^s active in the Kansas City Notre Dame Club, many of the club's meetings being held at bis place. 

. Sur\'iving are his wife, three sisters, and a brother. 
JAMES M. McGEE, '30, Williamsport, Pa., died June 14 after an extended illness. 
Employed by the Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., in Emporium, Pa., he was a member of the Knights of Columbus and an enthusiastic sports follower. He was one of the organizers of the annual Pennsylvania state Catholic high school basketball turnament. 
Surviving are six sisters. Funeral services were conducted in the Church of the Annunciation, Williamsport. 
The deaths last summer of two students were reported by the "Religious Bulletin." 
THOKfAS G. BOMBASSEI, an electrical engineer­ing sophomore, drowned July 29 in Lock Haven, Pa., while swimming from the shore of a local river to an island. 
LEWIS LEE PETERS, an architectural student, was lulled in an auto acddent early in September. A resident of Trenton, Ky., he returned to Notre Dame in 1947 after spending two semesters here in the V-12 Navy program in 1944. 
Word has just been recei«d by the ALUMNUS of the death of JAMES T. QUINN, who spent two years at Notre Dame in the pre-mcd. V-12 from 
Pl942 to '44, at Indiana University on Aug. 8. His home vfss in Burlington, la. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to ALBERT H. KESSING, '40, on the deaUi of his father; to WILLIAM P. O'NEILL, '06, on the death of his wife, and to RONALD S. O'NEILL, '14. 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
CLARENCE J. DERRICK, '14, Los An­geles, is one of the leading consulting engineers on the Pacific coast. 
The veteran of both World Wars got his first chance in 1921, when the late E. L. Dohcney undertook to Iniild a monumental church in Los Angeles. (Many former Notre Dame gridders Vfill remember Mr. Doheny as the sponsor of the Sunday morn­ing breakfasts following each Notre Dame appearance in L.A.) During the search for some one experienced and qualified to serve as structural engineer on the project, Mr. Derrick was brought to Los Angeles from 
CIJIBENCE I. DEBBICK. '14 

Chicago. The result was a landmark of church architecture which tourists and ex­perienced engineers travel far to see. 
Since that time Mr. Derrick has been the architectural engineer in the construction of 29 churches in Los Angeles. 
After the Santa Barbara earthquake in 1925, (during which an N. D. student, Bertram Hancock, lost his life) Derrick was one of the engineers employed in the re­construction of the city. He rebuilt the Santa Barbara library, first structure in the United States designed for an earthquake load. Because of his knowledge he was pre­vailed upon by the mayor of Los Angeles to supervise the preparation of a building code, keeping in mind unusual requirements de­manded by the land faults and earthquake conditions of the Pacific Coast. 
During World War I, Mr. Derrick served in France as a First Lieutenant in the Corps of Engineers. Between the two wars he was a captain in the Reserves. He served for three years in World War II as a captain in the Air Forces and in the Corps of En­gineers. He used his engineering knowledge at Geiger Field, Washington. 
Mr. Derrick is now devoting all his time to his job as Commissioner of the Board of Pubh'c Works of the City of Los Angeles. All buflding, public and private, comes under supervision of the board. 
* * — — — — — — — —•"•-—•—r—M~K.|«.M~w~.'M'V.VW.wWV»/VXA#MVO 
and DENNIS J. CNEIIX, *2e, on tlw death of their mother; to HENHY C. WUKZES, 25. and LINCOLN WUKZEK, '3S, on tbe death of their mother; to DAVID CONNOR, "SS^ on the death of ht> mother; to JOHN SHEA, '4U, oc the ifeath of h!s lather; to JOHN ALLEN, '45, on the cfcath of his Uther; to ARTHUR BURKERT. '30. on the death of his mother; to JAMES S. KEARNS, '34, on the death of his father; to THOMAS B. BRENNAN on the death of hU father; to JOHN P.' BERRES, '44, on the death of hix fs&a; to FRANKLIN STUART, '44, on the death of his motlaeT; to TIMOTHY P. GALVIN. '16, on the death of his wife; and to JOSEPH COQUUXARD, '00, and ALEXIS COQUILLARD UI on the death of their mother, the <nfe of Notre Dame's fint student. 
Fersostffs 
10AAA A Bar. John A MacHamiiza, 
•OTl^T T S L JoMpli Miawal Bolhfc ML Clamnui, Meh. 
Sister Marr dementia and Sister Rose Marian, the sister and daughter lespectively of SAMUEL A. WALKER, '95, (deceased), were recent visiton at the Aliunni Office. They are membeis of the Sisters of the Holy Name of Jesus and Mary at Holy Names Academy in Seattle, Wash. 
A replica of the miraculous statue of the Blessed Virgin at Cap de la ACadclrine in Canada wss brought to Notre Dame on Sept. 19 by P. W. O'GRADY. C.C., '03, executive director of tbe Confraternity of Pilgrims, which has offices at 109 N. Deaifaora St., Chicle 2. 
Mr. O'Gxadf has talcen pilgrimage groups to tbe six miranilous shrines in Canada tor 24 consecutive yean, and now is spreaifing his work to Mexico, California, and, as soon as conditions pcnnit, to tbe shrines of Europe. He is also co>author of ''Dark Was tbe Wilderness," a hock ipving the early bistorf of the eight North American \bftyr saints and ik the shrines in North America. It is published by Bruce Putdishing Co. 
Btnr. ThomoB £, Biiifc«« 

19054)9 
CLS.C Notr* Ikaa9, bd. 

RICARDO A. TREVINO is employed by Petroleo* Mexicanos as tedmical ei^neer on the staff of gen­eral superintendencies of refineries, in the nortbeni zone. He is living in Tampico, Mexico. 
 IGehoal L. MoiioBtr. St. 

1910 R«v. 
Cotberia*'* Ghnrdi. 3443 E. 43rd St, ClaTaland 4. O. 

From FATHER MKE: The one brief item for the 1910 section of yoor %iren loKnvn trade pohlication relates to a Oev^and visit on the part of PAUL DONOVAN. Paul caBed from some court or other where he was associating with downtown people. He promises to male St. Catherine's headqnaiten on lus next nsit. 
1910 men win be gbd to hear that BILLY RYAN is wen, happy, prosperous and good fun, out in Ocean Puk, Calif. 
1910 is proud of RED MILLER'S appointment to one of die governorships recently set up by Fkesident HARRY HOGAN. 
Along cooes a note from STEVE HERR. The class win be glad to know that Steve has a dan^ter in the junior dass at St. Mary's and STEVE, Jr., • beshmin in Bieen-Phillii* on tbe campus. Look 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
out for the Chatsworth banker at the Army and lou-a games. 
From HARRY MILLER, Wilmington, Del., to FATHER MIKE: 
Information concerning 1910 is as scarce with me as apparently it is with you. In June I was in San Francisco, talked with BILL SCHMITT by tele­phone several times and had a date to meet him in Portland, but I was unavoidably prevented from going there. While in Frisco 1 had a ver>' nice \-isit with MYLES SINNOTT who has an auto­mobile agency in Berkeley and who is doing verj* well. He is the same old Nfyles. with a lot of gray hair. I had a visit too with ED McKEEVER and his wife while there. 
I talk with DRE.\MY SCAXLOX by phone every now and then. Wc do plan to get together either here or in Xcw York sometime this fall. He is city salesman in New York for Chapman Valve Co. While in Springfield the other day I met £D (CUPID) GLYXX who owns a large brewerv- there and who has done ver>' well. He is ver>' highly respected and well thought of. I see AL MERTES now and then. He lives here and has a ver\' good position with the Figments Department of DuPont. Cupid Glynn was telling me that he had seen in the "Xew York Times" an item telling of tlie sudden death of LEE iL-VTTHEWS while on the coaching field. 
Regarding my own cliildren: as you know Creigh­ton graduated from Yale in June and forthwith took and passed the Ohio Bar and now has his shingle out in Clex-eland. Tom is in his last semester in the Pennsylvania Law School. He and his wife will make Cleveland their home after he has passed the bar. Maureen who has her A.B. is now working in the Greenwood Bookshop here. Sheila is a senior at Immaculata College near West Chester and is able to be home week-ends. 
1911 Fred L. Steers, 105 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3« HI. 
"Our president (of the Panama .-Uumni Club], DR. GUILLERMO PAITERSON, Jr., has just re­turned from a trip to the U. S.," reports J. IL HARRINGTON, *39. "He has resigned his position as judge in Panama and is preparing to leave for Uruguay in a few months. He will live half the )*ear down there and half here in Panama. 
**I should appreciate your ad\ising CHARLE.S LITTY in Montevideo that our president is !o re­side down there about the end of the >car. I shall notify Dr. Patterson to contact him when he arrives in Montevideo.'* 
 J. KaiEer. 324 Fourth St.. 
1912 B. 
Pittsburgh. Pa. 
EMMET G. LENIHAN, Alumni Governor ol Washington, attended the American Legion state con\'ention at Spokane and intended to fly to tlie national convention in Xew York. 
1916 Grover F. Miller, 610 Wisconsin Are., Hacine« VfiB, 
**It's a long jump from the jungles of Venezuela to the land of the "Real Fighting Irish," writes JOE McLOUGHLIN from Ireland, "but I made it." Joe wrote from a farm in Tipperar>- \vhcre he was visiting relatives and working for three wc-ks to get in condition for the "Irish night life in Dublin and Belfast." 
Joe's vacation includes an extensive tour of Scot­land and England as w*ell as Ireland, and then on to France and possibly Rome befori: his r.'turn to the 
U. S. in time for the Army game. He will not return to Venezuela but will reside at 2)3 Giand St., Jersey City, N. J. 
B. J. VoU, 206 E. Tutt St., South 
1917 
BendU bid. 
In his Chicago Tribune colunm, "In the ^Vake of the News," ARCH WATJ) credits CHrVRLES 
W. BACHMAN with being the youngest coach Nortliwesterxi, and possibly the entire Big Ten, has ever had. Badunan stepped from the Notre Dame vaxuty to the bead coaching job at Northwestern. 
 W. Duiiy. 1600 Tenninal 

1921 Dan 
Tower. Cleveland. O. 

From DAN DUFFY: I have been doing a little galav*antin5 around and have run into many of the fellou^ out of our time. Fishing took me to Canada early in the summer and it was my pleasure to sfjend considerable time with the Little General, JOSEPH RALPH BRANDY. He 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

AARON J. HALLOR.\N, '19, attorney, assumed his duties as commander of the American Legion of Ohio on Oct. 1, having been elected at a state convention in Cin­cinnati. 
In his home city of Springfield, Mr. Hal­loran is a charter member of Cultice-Ward Post No. 6. He has scr\'cd as a member of the post and of the Clark county Legion council. He has been a key member of 
AABON J. HAUORAN, '19 

Ohio's Americanism, legislative, and junior activities committees, and has served as Ohio's member of the National Legion's national defense and Americanism commit­tees, and on various national convention committees. 
Mr. Halloran Joins his legion work with his recreational preference and from it comes his chief hobby—interest in Legion junior baseball. This interest is a part ex­planation of why teams sponsored by his post have won three state championships. 
Prior to his election as vice-commander of Ohio last year, Mr. Halloran was depart­ment judge advocate, in which position he used his legal training in the solution of Legion problems. 
The former Army lieutenant and Notre Dame monogram winner has three children, two daughters and a son. 
has a beautiful camp, he calls it, situated on a bend in the St. Lawrence River, which brought back to memor>' Brandy's boast that "some day I'll be some place where it*s pleasant, taking it very cas>-." Well, the time is here, and Jf>seph Ralph Brandy is not missing it! 
Spent some time with LEO KELLY, his family and DUKE KINNEY in S>Tacuse, I tried to see CHARLIE DAVIS, going through Oswego, but missed him. 
I just returned from California where I made it my business to see JUDGE AL SCOTT, on the Juvenile Bench in Los Angeles, and handling all the Juvenile work in a county of that size has given the judge many a busy day, but at the same time has compiled for him a ver>- line record among the juvenile judges in the Country". 
Spent a pleasant afternoon with GENE KEN­NEDY, trust oflicer with the Bank of America, Los Angeles. Gene's just hack, having been a major in the Army. He is getting settled nicely. 
The lad who really has the "bull by the tail," with the downhill pull, is LEO WARD. I am told that Leo represents many good people and docs it well. 
I expect to have Brandy and Kelly at the Na\y 
game. 
CALLIX E. MILLER has retired from active duty with the Na\-y and opened an ofHce in South Bend for the general practice of architecture and structural engineering. His address is 234 Christman Bldg. 
1999 Gerald Ashe, 39 Cambridge St, ''^ ^ Hochester 7 N. Y. 
From DAN YOUNG: 
This is a synthetic column for the Kid has asked me to write it for him while he is traveling about the country. I know that we all appreciate the great job that GERRY ASHE has done for all of us and as a means of expressing our appreciation I am relie\-ing him for this one issue. I took the job to have the opportunity of expressing our thanks to him for the \itality he has kept in the dass of 1922. There is no other class secretary that has come an>*where near him in faithfulness. There it is. Kid. We thank you. I have heard many, many felloH's commend you. I started to send the names of the men in the class picture to all who attended the reunion. However, I have not been able to send a letter to ever>'one as yet so here is the list and if you will look at the class reunion picture you will see from left to right: Lou-er row: Huguenard, Champion, Dwyer, Wynne, Chaw, Phclan, J. M Jones, Forcn, Father Gallagher, C. McCabe, W. ^ Murphy, Young, Martin, Haley, Dooley, Bchan. 
Second Row: Atkinson, Smith, Coughlin, A. Relch­ert, Dixon, Schu-ertley, Steinle, Weber, McKee. 
Third Row: Sexton, Kreighbaum, R. Reichert, Lovett, Rahe, Herbert, T. McCabe, Galloway, J. RhombeiK, Higgins. 
Standing on left bottom to top: Crowley, Purcell, Blasius, G. Jones, Bj-me. 
Across Back: Corj'n, Dolan, Farley, Goldcamp, Gottr>*, Burke, S. Carmody, Dressel, HefTernan, Shaughness>', A. Rhomberg, Shilts, Foote, Cullen, Shcedy, Kcarns, Carroll, Reardon, Bailey, Black, Miles, Owens, Heneghan, Keeney, Kellett, Keefe, Connelly, Ken-er, Oesau, Hirschbuhl, Sthuldrcher, Ashe, Fites, Bustamante, CastelHni, Holmberg. 
We knew that the following were at the reunion, but did not get rounded up for the picture. (And if you are not mentioned or if you know of anyone not listed please write Kid Ashe, as wc should have a complete listing of that great reunion) : Alanion, Hanrahan, Holton, J. Carmody, H. Anderson, Bru­baker, Duffcy, the Holy Cross Brothers Finbarr, Gerard, McCarty, Father Shcchan, and Fleming, Matthes, O'Connell, Pfohl, Prokop, Schell, Smogor, Storcn, Bloemer, Chapla. 
We all owe Charlie Hirschbuhl a rising vote of thanks for sending all of us that grand picture of the reunion. 
There was at least a hundred at the reunion and^. if any of you were not able to make it want to see how the rest of us look send a couple of dollars to Bill Dooley and I think he can arrange for having the picture sent to you. 
HAROLD McKEE is trying to assemble at least a hundred pictures of our classmates with their families. If you have not already done so, will you send on a picture of yourself, alone or with your family. Harold is going to get out a pony "Dome." Also send along a little ^\Titeup of yourself telling what you arc doing and who you are ^sitb, etc. I know that many of us would be helping our class­mates in business if we knew what line they were in. 
At the Memorial Mass that FATHER BOB GALLAGHER celebrated in the chapel of Lyons hall for the 25 of our classmates who have died, there were 75 of us present. 
Ever>"one of us at that reunion came away with an enlarged heart that has seemed like a lump in our throat. We had a swell time and felt that we had made mistakes in not getting there together more frequently. We all really knew we were at something when LUIS BUSTAMANTE and VINCE HANRAHAN travelled six thousand miles to get there. We learn that PAUL F. NAGEL, lieutenant commander, U. S. Xavy, was lost during the ^var on a flight over the Pacific. The list keeps on growing. 
The line coach of our year had his Bears meet the Philadelphia Eagles and gave a luncheon at the Philadelphia War\vick for FRANK CONNELLY, KID ASHE, and DAN YOUNG. 
Notes from the younger set: BILL CASTEL­LINI'S lovely daughter Ruth, married John Keefe at St. Mary's Church in Cincinnati on Sept. 27th. 
Notes from the old age group: CY FITES was boasting at the reunion that he was the only grand­father. However, HUNK ANDERSON'S daughter in San Antonio has Hunk sitting on the bench with Cy. It was a six and a half pound baby g'rl, born on Sept. 11. 
Note to Wives, Mothers, Sisters, Motliers-in-Law, and Cousins of Notre Dame men—Class of '22— thanks for getting us all to that reunion. We hope you enjoyed your respite and recovered from battle fatigue. We had a swell time and we know that you enjoyed looking at the picture that Charlie Hirschbuhl sent. I was as proud as punch when I walked in the door the day the pictuie arrived to have Lor and the girls say, *'It certainly is a swell looking group of men." 
FRANK BLOEMER has been appointed alumri governor of Kentucky and ED BAILEY is alumni governor of Maryland. 
KID ASHE is looking for^rard to the 30th re­union. When it comes I hope that HAROLD WEBER, AARON HUGUENARD, PAT MANION, and BERNIE McCAFFERY still own that there Town Club for they certainly must have bought it for the part>* they gave on May 30. 
FRANK W. CONNELLY (not PERCE who is on the west coast) is superintendent—Compcitsa­tion and Liability Department—of the Manufacturers Casualty Insurance Co. at Philadelphia. 
ED GOTTRY of New York, recently «sited his old friend, DR. BERNIE PARKER. '21, of Hun­tington, Ind. Ed is working on some new plans about which announcement will be made later on. 
Our operator in Los Angeles saw EARL WALSH at the Notre Dame picnic there. Earl expressed his regret at having to miss the reunion. 
HARRY MEHRE is vice president of a soft drink manufacturing plant in Atlanta. 
BILL DALY is general manager, Philadelphia area, for the Worthington Pump. Bill, along with EDDIE PFEIFFER, was prevented by illness from making the reunion. 

There were many fellows who had to cancel their trip to the reunion, because of business: PHIL KILEY, FRED GLAHE, JOHN HUETHER, FRFTZ BAUMER, EDDIE ANDERSON, AL SCOTT, GERRY BARRETT, JUD HYLAND, TONY SCHIAVONE, HARRY MEHRE, KEN NYHAN, GEORGE and PAUL McDERMOTT, GENE KENNEDY, WORTH CLARK, ED COCH­RANE, KARL ARNDT, BUCK SHAW and FATHER GEORGE FISCHER. We knew that these fellows were with us in spirit and we miised them. 
Our class secretary GERALD A. (KID) ASHE is at present at the Robert Fulton Hotel in Atlanta. Please send him notes. 
ED RAUB is not listed on our roster. He was at the reunion and I note that he is not listed as being present. 
JIM MARTIN is in the reinforcing steel business in Chicago. 
VINCE HANRAHAN is with the Coast and Geo­detic Sun.ey in Panama, and LUIS BUSTAMANIE sa>-s he is in the fruit salad. business, you know— pineapples and bananas. 
And 1*11 slip off on the bananas. 

VERY REV. MSGR. GEORGE M. SCOTT was among those elev-atcd to the rank of P^pal Chamber­lains by Pope Pius XII, last July. He is the pastor of Mary, Star of the Sea at San Pedro, Calif. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 

DR. GONZALO RESTREPO -JARA­MILLO, "19, is Ambassador of Colombia before the Government of the United States and Columbian Delegate to the United Nations General Assembly. H e was also Columbian Delegate to the Inter-American Conference held last summer at Rio de Janeiro. 
The Ambassador is an active member of two academies and the author of five books 
— a volume of poetry and four volumes of political and social commentaries. He pre-
DR. GONZALO BESTBEPO-JABAMILLO/IS 
sented to the Notre Dame Library an auto­graphed copy of his volume "Contemporary Crisis." He has a bachelor of arts degree from Colegio de San Ignacio, a doctor of laws from the University of Antioquia, and an honorary degree in social and political science from Universidad Pontificia Bolivari­ana, Medellin, Colombia. 
Dr. Restrepo was formerly professor of political economy at the University of Anti­oquia, the National School of Mines of Medellin, and the Pontificia Universidad Bolivariana, also of Medellin. 
He began his climb to political heights as a member of the municipal council of Medel­lin and as a deputy to the Antioquia state assembly. He served several terms in the House of Representatives and in the Senate. On several occasions he was president of the municipal council of the Departamento (State) of Antioquia, and of the House of Representatives and Senate of the Republic of Colombia. 
1923 Pool H. Cosliiar. 1305 W. MSmg' tea AT«« St PcniL 
From PAUL CASTNER: On leatEng the last dass notes LOUIS BRUG­GNER sent me the following communication; "I am certsunir looking forward to the 25th Kennion. I think the South Bend classmates ought to get on the ball in any way we can, so in answer to yoar appeal for help, Fm offering mine, m be ^ad to do anytliing 1 can. As a starter, Fd like to suggest that in my fdace of business we have the mffhaniml equipment to get out any mail matter or printed material you might want, and with JIM ARM­STRONG'S addressograph files, we can do a bang-up job of mailing, etc.'' 
That's grand Louis, and I am quoting your whole communication so tiiat the boys in Chicago can take note. DICK NASH tells me that they have some facilities in Chicago that he, ED GOULD and JOHN MONTAGUE can me also. Dick, will you write to Louis and tell him how he can help with the work you are doing in Chicago? Maybe better stiH, when any of the Cliicago group is in South Bend for a game, get in touch with Louis and coordinate your mailing programs. 
Louis, I think that you and JOE NYKO S and other '23ers in South Bend ought to be giving some thought to setting up a program. for the dass for Commencement. We surely want to have a dinner gathering, maybe some golf for those who want to play, possibly a special Klass for all of us to atend in a body in commemoration of our departed classmates. The Alumni Office should have some ideas along this line that havie been started by other classes. I know that DICK NASH, ED GOULD and JOHN MONTAGUE have some ideas they got from KID ASHE, which were used for their 25th reunion this year. 
I'd like to hear from some of the class, tell of your plans to attend and I will send it for publica­tion in the class notes and maybe these messages will prompt some of you buddies to make thdr plans to be there too. So lets have some letters or cards from different sections of the country. 
MURRAY POWERS, managing editor of the 
"Akron Beacon Journal," spent his vacation on the 
campus attending the laymen's retreat. He was one 
of the nation's managing and news editors attend­
ing the seminar at Columbia the week of Sept. 22. 
JOHN T. FOGARTY is traveling throughout 
Central and Sooth Ainerica for Willard Batteries. 
Formerly . living ' in Anderson, Ind., . he and his 
family-'now 'reside in* I^nama. 
1924 
The Soldier's Medal was awarded to JOHN P. LONG, 2468 E. 72nd St., Chic^o, for heroic action -in saving the life of a soldier in 1^3 while serving in the South Pacific as a Captain in the Marine 
Corps. 
A boat-in which John and three soldiers were riding abouV'a'.half-mile from shore capsized. One drowned almost immediately, another made it to shore, while the third was caught in a' strong current and was helpless. John swam through heavy rip tides, a dangerous reef and treacherous waters for a quarter of a mile before locating him. 
Finding himself unable to make any headway toward the beach while towing the soldier, he "un­selfishly removed his life jacket, put it on the other person, and inflated' it."- John then attempted to return to the beach to secure a rescue boat, but was seized by cramps in both legs. By "displaying the utmost coolness and courage" John managed to re­main afloat in the vicinity until a small boat was able to reach them. . 
The citation stated that "Capt. Long's actions, in displaying great coolness under duress and om ­plete disregard for his own personal safety, were directly responsible for saving the life of a fdlow 
FATHER LEO FLOOD, pastor of Sacred Heart par^ in New Orleans, was awarded the medd Pro EccUsim and Ponlifct at St. Louis CatheAal in New Orleans on Sept. 29. Archbishop Rnmmd presided at the ceremony. 
The Notre Dcone Alumnus 
1925 
John P. Hnrley. The Toledo Par­lor FamituTe Co., Toledo. O. 
In a reorganization of the executive sta/F of the CaUcago Title and Trust Co., JOSEPH D. SHEL­LY was appointed an openiting vice president in charge of the public relations di\-isiQn. 
U. S. District Attorney DON C. MII.LER of Cle\-eland, was unanimously elected president of the U- S. District Attomc>-s Association at the annual two-day conference in Washington last month. "I pledge my full cooperation/* said Don in addressing the conference after his election, "with the attorney general in his campaign against high prices in food, clothing and building." 
CHARLIE dc Ja VERGNE, his wife and three sons were campus visitors in August. He was on his way east after picldng up one son at a Wis­consin camp. 

JOHN CAREY, president of the Notre Dame Club of Northern California, visiting the campus on Oct. 8, brought word that EUSTACE CULLINAN, JR., San Frandsco, had recently been appointed a municipal judge. 
1926 
Victor F. Lemmer, Box 661, Iron­
wood, ^Gch. 

In the August issue the ALUMNUS eliminated JACK ADAMS and CHARLIE TOTTEN from the Montclair (N. J.) Golf Club's member-guest tourna­ment in the third round. Actually the two former Irish golf team captains, Charh'e in '28 and John in '26, won the second Sight finals. It was the first time the two had pla^vd together since their student days. 
WARD LEAHY has been appointed superintendent of the Cleveland division of the New York Central System, with headquarters in Cleveland. 
DR. JAMES K. STACK, who is practicing medi­cine in Chicago, was reported to be the attending physidan of former Mayor Kelly by the "Chicago Tribune.'* 
1927 
Joseph M BoIcEnd Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
From JOE BOLAND: 
RAY McCLORY, who has been first assistant 

U. S. attorney in Chicago, retired recently from that post to the private practice of law in that dty. Hc*s now located at 69 W. Washington St. Profes­sionally .. . lives with bis wife, Marian, and their four children at 790 Mount Pleasant Rd., Winnetka. 
JOHN WALLACE, who has booked yom- scrivener for a football'talk to the Optimists CUub in Ham­mond, Ind., in mid-October, is now a partner in the Kerr-Wallace Packard Sales Agenc>', Hammond. Wallace sent a picture of HARRY O'BOYLE, ED MCLAUGHLI N and himself—taken when these three had a re-union at a Chicago restamant. 
CHET MCDONALD, formerly with the FBI and OPA, is now engaged in the private practice of bw in Lowell, Mass. He's located at 45 Merrimack St. 
VINCE MCNALLY, who has swtched affiliation from the San Francisco club to the Los Angeles Dons in the All-America Conference, still lives in the east at Haverford, Penna., and conducts his work from there. He's eastern representative and scout for the Coast dub. An arrival, the first, is expected in the KfcNally family any moment. 
From WILLIAM H. H. GINDER, '31: 

Through JIM JONES' efforts, I was able to find a house at 41 Vincent Place, L^'nbrook, Long Island. He also helped RED SMITH, feature sports uriter for the *'New York Herald Tribune," find a place in Malvern, Long Island. Jim was kind enough to arrange a litde get-together recently where we bad an opportunity to meet the Smiths and the DAN CUNNINGHAAfS. Jim an assistant editor on "Food Industries," a McGraw-Hill pubh'cation, lives at 30 Watts Place, Lynbrook, Long Island. Has a wife and four d^dren, two bo>3 and'two girls. 
Frequently notes in the alumni columns inquire as to the whereabouts of one £. J. McSWEENEY from Wells^iUe, O. The last time I saw him, which was about a year ago, he was in the advertising division of the Sears-Roebuck Co. in Chicago. He is listed at the Cliicago club office and not so long ago helped the late FATHER O'DONNELL in the preparation of the Notxc Dame publidtf book. 
JOSEPH H. DUNN, postmaster at Br^oerd, Minn., was recently dected %^ce president of the Minnesota Postmaster Assodation. He was married last spring. 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNA 

M. GERTRUDE BLANCHARD, '27, formerly one of the key figures in the de­velopment of the Notre Dame library, received the honorary degree of Doctor of Children's Literature from Duquesne Uni­versity, Pittsburgh, when she retired there 
as university librarian Sept. 1, 1945. Miss Blaschard organized and directed the Notre Dame reference library from 
M. GEBTBDDE BLANCHABO, '27 

1921 until 1922. She also taught Ubraiy science at the University during' summer sessions from 1922 until 1927. 
Miss Blanchard organized the present Du­quesne library in 1928 when she consolidated a number of departmental libraries. In add­ition to being Duquesne's first full-time librarian, she was the university's first dean of women, and was the first president of the Carnegie Institute Alumnae Association. 
She retains her faculty status at Du­quesne and continues her classes in librar}­science. She also continues as director of the Library Science Division of the School of Education, a program which she inaugu­rated and which progressed under her leadership. 
Miss Blanchard, a member of many profes­sional and learned societies, is an expert in children's literature, which she considers her hobby. At one time during her forty years of professional experience she was children's librarian at Carnegie Institute. 
Louis F. Buckley, Sociol Security 

1928 
Administration, Rm. 400, 1100 
Chester St, Oereland K O. 

From LOU BUCKLEY: 
Thanks to the fine cooperation of JOE GERAGH­TY, I am able to ^ve you a column this month that is up to our standards. No doubt the spirit of the 20-year reumon is responsible for the responses received from Joe and his New York colleagues. Joe writes fn>m 50 Quentin Rd., Rochester, N. Y., where he is cashier and office manager of George 
D. B. Donbright & Co. He is married and has three children. His news)* letter is as follows: 
"JIM *RED' BERRY is a prosperous farmer out­side of Canandaigua, N. Y., and also has an orchestra which plays round or swing-yoiu--partner dances, with Red directing the swinging. 
"ART SLAVIN, formerly of Rochester, N. Y., is working for the Dept. of Agriculture at AfUu-aukee, Wis., covering seven states and working in the fidd of soil erosion and habilitation. Art is married and was-in Rochester in July for a few daj-s. 
"KEN POWER is Rochester, N. Y.'s, deput>­county derk and also executive committeeman for the Republican Party in Monroe County. Ken is married and the father of three children. M 
"PHIL O'CONNOR has a nice position with Eastman Kodak Co. and also is a member of its minstrd cast, which puts on some very fine shou-s. 
"DON CORBETT, one of Rochester's leading attorneys, is married and the father of three N. D, quarterbacks and one girl who expects to attend St. Mary's. Don Mves in my neighborhood and very frequently I meet him in the Power's Hotd. 
"JOHN STEWART is manager of the "Path­finder" magarine located in Washington, D. C. John is married and has three children. 
"BERNIE CONNELLEY is assistant auditor of the Central Trust Co., of Rochester, N. Y., and married. 
"I would like to take this opportunity to thank JOE DEBOTT, BERNIE BIRD, JOE HANEY and FRANK CONNORS for their fine cooperation in sending along such newsy letters which made my task much easier, and now I would like to leave this slogan with all the class of '28 to make our next reunion a lOO^g; 'Every graduate of '28 attend your reunion in '48' " 
Joe's first letter comes from JOE DEBOTT, of Geneva, N. Y., who is manager of the. town's lead­ing men's furnishing store, Broderick's. Joe is stiU a bachdor. He gives us the following dope on the ^ classmates: V 
"JOHN LARSEN and I are the only '28 men in Geneva and our situations haven't changed since the hist write-ups in the ALUMNUS. I saw TOM CANTY in Batavia a couple of months ago—drove up to see if he would go out to the Army game %rith me in the fall. He had ahready made arrange­ments to go, but I can tag along with his party. Tom is a district agent for John Hancock Life Insurance Co. in Batavia, and Is doing very well. Tom lost his wife, Ann, two ^vars ago. He has a daughter Rose Ann, who is ten years old. Tom said that ART CANTY was stiU in California, and is connected with the legal department of Prudential life Insurance Co. 
"JIM CONNER'S -mSe was in town hist February. ^m couldn't make the trip as he has been laid up for the past dgbt years. 
"I expect to see SWEDE SCHROEDER at the Army game—^in fact it was Swede who started the ball rolling last January to attend the Army game. He said be bad room reservations, and I hope so as I understand everything has been bought up since the game was annotmced for South Bend. 
"I had a card at Christmas time from ED DEAN. He's living^ somewhere around Pfttsbursh and is connected mth Koppers and Co. He has four children. 
"I never hear anything about SHELANSKEY. From last reports, I guess he »:as still living^ ia ^ Hempstead, Long Island. The last I heard he %vas V M travdii^ auditor for the State Comptroller's office. His territory is in the southern part of the State, so he ne\-er gets up this way." 
The next letter is from BERNIE BIRD who writes from Buffalo, N. Y., where he is deputy city 
treasurer. I note that Bcrnie, like myself, is spend* 
ing his evenings teaching. He writes the following: 

"GUS JENKINS dropped in about a day after your letter arrived. We sat here for several minutes trying to dig up Buffalo N. D. '28ers. There are apparently only three or four. Gus, as you know, is with the Wendltog Iron Co. Yours truly is here in the money department. I have been in this spot since January, 1946. MARTY RYAN lives at Central Y.M.C.A. I believe he is with the N.Y.C. 
R.R.
 There is JOE ANGELINO. He went through 

N.
 D. Law School,' I believe, I think he is in one of the Federal agendes. GORDON BENNETT, a '28 starter, is manager of the Circulation Depart­ment of the Buffalo "Courier-Express." I sec him quite often. 


"Incidentally, I am on the E\-ening Session faculty of Canistus College. For about the past seven years I have been teaching sociological subjects. This coming year I am scheduled to teach criminology and general sociolog>*. . . , Here's hoping for a big and fine 20-ycar reunion for the '28crs." 
JOE HANEY writes from the Haney Building, Newark, N. J., as follo\%-5: 

"I am back in my office practidng law the same as I was when I entered the Armed Forces in July of 1943. I sen-cd in the U. S. Anny six months, was discharged, reenlisted in the U. S. Navy and served almost two ^-ears more and while I was in the Navy, I was transferred to the U. S. Marine Corps. I have not met anybody of World War H who has been in three branches of the service. With the exception of the time spent in military service, I have practiced law for and by myself here in this same office in Newark, N. Y., since July 1, 1932. 
"I was district attorney of Wayne County for one year prior to my entry into the armed forces. 
"I have recently acquired an assistant in the person of THOMAS BEHAN, class of *33, who formerly li\*ed in Syracuse and now lives in Newark. 
"In sending this news to LOUIE BUCKLEY, tell Louie that the members of the Class of *28 in Newark, New York (not Newark, New Jersey) would like to hear from RUSSELL A. RILEY, Orange, N. J. and ALFRED TAYLOR of New York City, who are both practidng attorneys and who are boh members of the Class of *28. 
"The only other member of the Chss of '28 from Newark, N. Y., or from Wayne County, so far as I know is EUGENE ANTHONY SCHILTZ who runs a coal business here in town and who has several other irons in the fire, such as selling and seriidng stokers. He also has a half interest in one of the best grocery stores in town. Although Gene is married and has three or four children, THOMAS BEHAN and myself arc still bachelors. 
"RICHARD KENNETH O'BRIEN of the Class of '29, formeriy of Lyons, N. Y., and EUGENE SCHILTZ are brothers-in-law, having married two beauUful South Bend girls. RICHARD K. O'BRIEN is managing the Belhurst Club, just south of Geneva. 
"I would like to noUfy RUSSELL A. RILEY of Orange, N. J., AL TAYLOR, of BrooUyn, N. Y.. and TOM McMANN formerly of Susquehanna, Pa., that I would like to see them at the 20th Class Reunion in Jtme of 1948." 
FRANK CONNORS also responded to Joe's re­quest for news with a note from 384 West Main St., Arcade, N. Y. . Frank mentioned that BERNIE BIRD addressed their Holy Name Sodety at a recent Communion breakfast and noted that the Class of '28 may vttXi be proud of its representative. Frank, MARTY RYAN, and GUS JENKINS got togther at U.N.D. Night thus enjoying an informal reunion. Frank sa>-s he expects to make the reunion next year. 
Since JOE GERAGHTY did such a wonderful job in. supplying news for this issue, I will save news items induded in returns on the Aug. 29 preliminary questionnaire for the next issue. 
I have had a splendid response to my letter of Aug. 29 to all '28 men. Those of you who have not returned the preliminary questionnaire, please do so at once. I am anxious to get your btest addresses for compiling an up-to-date roster of '28 men for distribution to the classmates. 
Now for a brief analyris of the returns as of Sept. 10 on my Xfrcliminary questionnaire. Only two of the men responding indicated they would be unable to attend. Both of them live in Cahfomia. Don't let distance keep you away, as we expect to 
SPOTLIGHT AUIMHUS 
CLYDE A. LEWIS, '34, was elected junior vice commander in chief of the Vet­erans of Foreign Wars during that organi­zation's September national encampment in Cleveland. 
The Plattsburgh attorney, a World War II Army Air Force pilot, thus became the third ranking elective officer in the 2,000,000 member organization. The way is open for his election to commander in two years since it is regarded as standard operating 
CLYDE A. LEWIS. '34 

procedure that elective o£Scers be "pro­moted" until they have reached the top. 
Clyde, former manager of football at Notre Dame, was assistant director of student employment at Harvard University from 1936 until 1939. He received his LL.B. at Harvard in 1939 and was admitted to the New York State Bar in 1940. 
He enlisted in the Army Air Forces in April, 1942, and in less than three years was promoted to the rank of major, going to England as a ilight commander. Having completed 25 bombing missions he was re­turned to the United States for rest and re­cuperation. He volunteered for a second tour of duty. As squadron commander he had completed 11 missions by VE Day. 
Clyde returned to this country wearing the Distinguished Flying Cross with two oak leaf clusters, the Air Medal with four oak leaf clusters, the Distinguished Unit Citation with one Oak Leaf Cluster, the Croix de Guerre, the ETO ribbon with six battle stars, and the ATO ribbon. 
Two years after leaving Notre Dame, Clyde was married. He is the father of two sons. 
"qwtl^t" tbe nan camng {ram the greatest da­
ance. Bncticall, all tlie men indicated tlier wanted 
a stag paitT Friday ni^t, June 4, with rmiiliatii oa 
an intotmal get-together lather than a laogtam 
affair. All itqnested an u|>-to.date dass raster. Thn 
win be pnwible only if 1 get a 100 per cent rasponae 
to my qoestioiuaiie. Almost evexTone wants me to 
send oat a questionnaire to be used as a basis for 
a. class history %vith emphasis on the reUgious, edo­cational, military, economic, business and profes­sional, dvic, political, social and fanuly life of '28 men nnce 1928. 
Something' like eleven priests have been men­tioned as posnble celebrants of a Briass for deceased classmates. They are: FATHER JAMES GAIXA­GAN, C.S.C., BISHOP JOHN F. O'HARA, C.S.C., FATHER ANDY BfULRANEY. C.S.C., FATHER JAMES HcSHANE, S.J., FATHER THOMAS A. STEINER, C.S.C., FATHER MATTHEW WALSH. C.S.C., FATHER CaiARLES DOREMUS, C.S.C FATHER GEORGE hIARR, C.S.C., FATHER MARK FtnGERAtO, C.S.C., FATHER LOU THORNTON, CS.C., and FATHER THOMAS IRVING, C.S.C. I hope we can have all of these priests present for oor Mass. as well as many others who 1 ^ be mentioned in replies still to be received. 
In accordance with a custom established a few yean ago, I win ask Father GaUagan, C.S.C.. to offer a Itlass in November for oar deceased class­mates. I am listing our deceased men who received bachelor's degrees in '28 so that you «nn remember them in your prayers: 
EOMOND A. COLLINS, <fied, June 3, 19»: GEORGE W. FLICK, died, June 30, 1934; AL­BERT J. FLYNN; EDWARD W. FRETTAS, died, Sept. 6, 1941; JAMES E. GRAY, died, Oct. 28, 1936; BICHOT X. GREMILLION, HAROLD W. HALPIN, JOSEPH J. HEBERT, FRANCIS A. KELLY, GEORGE A. KIENER, died, June 22, 1932; CHARLES V. LACEY. died, March 22, 1926. 
ROSWELL C. LEAHY, died, Dec. 1, 1941; WIL­LIAM A. O'BRIEN, JR., died, Sept. 13, 1940; JOSEPH M. O-DOWD; FRANCIS A. ©"TOOLE, died, July 1932; JOSEPH L. PREIXI, died, April 18, 1931; ULYSSES J. ROTHBALLER; THOMAS 
F. RUCKELSHAUS, died, Fdi. 9, 1945; LEO A. SCHNEIDER, died, Nov. 29, 1942; ELIAS G. THOMAS; EDWARD A. WALSH, died, Nov. 2, 1937; LAWRENCE D. WHTTE. died. May 8, 1936. 
Please let me know if this list is not complete, or if you can give me the mis^ng dates of death. As far as I know, no '28 man was killed in action. Although JACK CHEVIGNY is not listed as '28, you win want to remember him with tbe above classmates. 
REV. JA&IES McSHANE, S.J., is the regional spiritual director of the St. Louis region for the Gon&atemity of Hlgrims. The contraternity sponsors and conducts pilgrimage groups to ranadian shrines. 
%Cl90 '«">•• B- Now«rr. p. O. Bex I54& 
I TA T Shrarapoct La. 
THOMAS F. MURPHY, who was a star end under Rockne, has been appointed footbaO coach at Cheshire Academy in Connecticut. 
1930 
HcBold E. Dnke, 4030 N. Brood SL. Philodalpbio. Pa. 
VIC MARTZEL, Sbreveport, La., on a trip throiu;h Mississipjn last summer saw BILL MILLER, JACK CANEERO, '28, and DINK HENNESSEY, '27. Jack is the architect on the bishop's new reridence and diancery office in Jackson. 
"The MeiScal Way" features DR. EDWARD T. YORKE on its July cover and salutes him as an "eminent cardiologist, able adnunistrator, valiant soldier and friend of the soldier, whose work with the Veterans Administration win result in improving medical care for thousands of veterans." Dcs­chatged from service in 1946 after serving as chief medical ^-w^m^n^w at Fort Jackson and in hospitals in India, he rejoined the staff of the Prudential Insurance Co. He later accepted the position of liason officer of the New Jersey Medical Society wtith the VA and started to practice canfiology in Linden. He is on the staffs of Rahway, St. Biza^ beth, and Akxian Brothers hospitals. 
VIC PERRY, who owns the ao b Catalina—"The 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Steak House of the Island"—on Catalina Island, CaliC, has opened a new place, the Mcl-O-Dee, in Glendale, Calif. 
DR. BOB MacI>ONALD, who is one of the fore­most pediatricians in Pittsburgh, reccndy attended the international meeting of the American Medical Association in New York. Bob has four children, two boys and two girls. 
1931 Walter F. Piiillpp, 4 Pickwick Lane, Newton Square, Pa. 
AL GALL is production manager for the Rein­hold Publishing Corp., which is located in the &fcGraw-HilI building in New York. 
The lure of "down under"—and the sound of wedding bells—has drawn TOM GOLDEN to Aus­tralia, where he will marr>* Mo>-a Murphy. He had been in the employ of Anaconda Copper after getting his master's degree at Notre Dame last June, follow­ing a year on the campus. He %rill teach economics at the University of Sydney, Australia. 
 E. Collins, 17 Triangle 

1932 James 
Ave., Dayton 9, O. 

From JIM COLLINS: It was good to learn that TED HALPIN has fully recovered from the serious case of rheumatic fever which laid him low for several months. He is back to work as manager of the Omaha division of duPont Paint Co. 
REGIS McNAMARA is back in Binghamton, N. Y., and is a selling engineer for the Link Company of that city. 
CLEM THELSSEN writes that his plans are just about complete for the Army game week-end. He repeats that anyone seeking information should write direcdy to him at 1258 Miami Rd., Benton Harbor, Mich. 
C. D. JONES has been transferred from Barkcs­dale Field, Shreveport, La., to Maxwell Field, N. Y. 
BILL ALLEN recently sailed from Panama to spend six months in North Carolina to "give his diildren a chance to experience life in the conti­nental U. S. in a t>pical town." 
10^ ) Joseph A. McCabe, Advertising, 
• '^^ Eastman Kodak Co.. 343 State St^ Rochester, N. Y. From JOE McGABE (the generous man \vho is 
the new secretary of '33): I'm just another D.P. 
I belong up in the column above, dedicated to the names and games of old '32- But I held up my degree on a technicality, in order to edit the—^but let's skip that. Some of you may remember the name of the publication I headed. (£d. note: Beheaded is the proper word.) 
For those who don"t remember, I'll just conceal my criminal record, and proceed with the bad news: 
JIM ARMSTRONG and BILL DOOLEY have nominated me to be class secretary pro tern, pro mores. And I must say Jim is certainly well named. He put a new twist in his request. 
But the doctor sa>-s my arm will be as good as new in time to t*Tite up some copv for the next ALUMNUS. 
So—^if you ha\-c any dope on the old class, or even vice-versa, send it in to the above address. The neighbors w-ill be happy to sec me getting some mail. You can send your scoops and snoops to Ad­\'ertising, Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State Street, Rochester, N. Y., but, with exquisite taste, the fates have placed a Northwestern man in the next ofhce, and he might read your mail. ^Vill someone please forward this information along to Frank Leahy marked Acdon: Nov. 15. 
1934 Joseph B. Glennon* Jr., Commer­cial Solrents Corp.. 17 E. 42nd 
chalice to FATHER JIM MOSCOW, president of the class of '34, who is now Assistant Director of Hospitals for the Chicago archdiocese. 
The presentation was made on Sept. 5 in the Director's Room of the Chicago .\lhlctic Club. The chalice was selected from John P. Daleiden Com­pany. Daleidcn, of course, is managed and run by JOHN BROST, an ex-member of the Class of '34, who had to leave after his second j'ear of school because of business conditions warranting his return to manage the Daleiden store. 
The chalice cost us $375, and the total money collected for this fund amounted to approximately $546. The difference will be contributed to the Bengal ^fissions so that Masses can be said in memory' of the fellows whose names appear on the chalice. 
The inscription on the bottom of the chalice is: 
"Presented by the Class of *34 University 
of Notre Dame in prayerful meroorj- of our 
Class's War dead, in honor of Our Blessed 
Lady on the Feast of her Nativity, September 
8, 1947: (Ofndal list of names) 
Requieecant in Face." 

In accepting the chalice. Father Moscow said: 
"The whole idea of remembering our dead in some special way is most edifying to me—and surely pleasing to Our Blessed Lord. Surely I am honored —but cspcdally am more grateful than ever for the share of man in Christ's priesthood that makes our memorial possible. 
The members of our class, both living and dead could never be bound more closely together than in our union with Christ, our High Priest, in the Holy Sacrifice. Our chalice should be our outward expression and pledge of our daily love for Christ— to be shown by our spodess lives in His service, and, in part at least, by our constant prayers for each other and our departed friends." 
ROBB S. RENSBERGER is now located in Recipe, Brazil. His address is Singer Scwinj .Ma­chine Co., Coixa Postal 21. 
JOSEPH HERRIGAN, Spokane, Wash., combined work and pleasure on a \Tsit to the Horse Heavens countrj-, where his wheat ranch is located. 
JOHN H. CL.'VRK is coaching at York Catholic High School, York, Pa. 
IQ^E Franklyn C. Hochreiter, 1327 
WW 99 Pentwood Hd„ Baltimore 12. Md. 
From HOCH: 
Two new agents reported in for this trip to press and their letters came from widely separated points 
of the compass. We don't remember e\'er haWng heard from TOM OWEN and JIM JENNINGS in ^ our 12 jvars of reporting but then, we might be in error. 
Tom is sales manager for the Electromode Corp. in Rochester, N. Y., and Jim Is practicing law in Roswell, N. M. Last we heard of either of them, Tom was in South Bend and Jim was in his home town of £1 Paso, Tex. But we'll let them both talk for themselves. 
Tom writes: "I have just finished reading the 'Alumnus.' When TON ^ KUHARICH broke down after all these years, I felt I should do likewise. Even though I have not kept in touch with you I ha\'e kept my eyes open for neu's, so here goes. 
"First, I'll tell you a litUe about m>-self. After graduadon, I spent about two >'ears in South Bend u-orking as a salesman and in the First Bank & Trust Co. The next step was to Detroit for Chevro­let Gear and Axle in the accounting department-After 15 months on the bottom step, I began to suspect what Stan Price knew after I completed a year in his classes—accounting was not for me. I switciied to adv-ertising with the South Bend Lathe Works. After 15 months, I moved to Dodge Manu' facturing Corp. as assistant adverdsing manager. From there I moved to ray present job as sales manager of the Electromode Corp. Electromode manufactures all-electric space heaters, including ^ both domestic and industrial types. W 
The family consists of my wife, Madge, Kathleen, 6, and Tom, 21^. We have been in Rochester just a year and like it very much. 
*'Tbe following information has been picked up over a 12-ycar period and may not be entirely accur­ate. I put it down for what it is worth. 
**I haw just returned from a trip to South Bend and I find FALMORE HARRIS is now manager uf the personal credit department, American Trust Co, Fal and I lived about a block apart for five years and our paths crossed about twice at the neighbor­hood grocery store. We just never saw each other at parties or get-togethers. 
"BILL BROWN, (William Anthony that is,) was an officer in the Army stationed at Aberdeen Prov* ing Ground. After discharge he headed west on a trip. In Phoenix he met and became engaged to Loretta Riley, bis St. M3r>''s date, after 15 years, tsk! tsk! They arc now married and living tn New York. I do not Iiave the address. 
"I saw FRED ERDLE in a car while driving in Rochester but he got away before I could catch his eye. 
"In South Bend in 1937 or *38, I used to see BOB HOSTETLER in the accoundng department of the Northern Indiana Public Ser%'ice Co. I haven't seen him in years and do not know whether he is still there. 
St., New York City 17.  Father Jim Moscow, senior presid«nt ol the doss of 1934, now  a  priest of the  
From BOB  HA&OLTON:  archdiocese of Chicago, receires from Bob Hamilton a  chalice given bysr the men of  
Here is the final story on the  presentation  of  thr  '34 in memory of their dossmates who gore their lives in World War IL See *34 news.  

"I met JOHN LAWRENCE occasionally in early years and at that time he was with South Bend Bait or Toy Co.—I can't remember which. I haven't seen him in years either. 
"I have seen RAY (Red) MARGRETT and ED O'HARA at Rochester alumni meetings. Red is with a local finance company and I don't know what Ed is doing. Whatever tt is he isn't aging and looks happy. 
"In going back and forth to work in Mishawaka, I used to see RALPH O'iLVLLEY going to or leaving the U. S. Rubber Co., where I understand he was working at that time. 
"At our fourth degree K. of C. initiation in South Bend, I met ROCKY SCHIRALLI and we chinned a little bit about old times. He was doing okay then and, I see by the 'Alumnus,' even better now. 
"I used to see KURT SIMON quite often in South Bend. He was with Simon Brothers, whole­sale grocers. He is married. 
"HERMAN COHEN worked at Dodge Manu­facturing Corp. during the war. I believe he is practicing law in Mishawaka at the present time. 
"JOE McCABE, '33, lives in our neighborhood and I see him nearly evcr>' Sunday at Church. He is in the advertising department of Eastman-Kodak. He was in the Navy during the war and prior to that w-as picture editor of the Chicago 'Times.' He has a charming wife and two beautiful girls. 
"PAUL FERGUS and I worked at the South Bend Lathe Works about the same time and shortly after I left he joined Carter, Jones and Taylor, local advertising agenc>' as an account executive. He is doing ver>- well 1 understand. 
"I saw quite a bit of JIM BOOKWALTER prior to his death in about 1940. Jim had acquired quite a reputation as a local historian and gave a number of talks before local clubs. He showed my wife and me a number of almost unknown historical landmarks and u-as one of the most interesting people I haw ever known. 
"BILL RYAN is with the Associates Investment Co. in South Bend. He told me what his brother John was doing but it slips my mind. I believe it was a sales job for an office machinery' company." 
"Well Hoch, I've eventually run out and I feel like I'd been to confession. I've unloaded all the dirt I can think of right now. I'll report again in 1959 if not sooner—depend on it." 
It was good to have your newsy letter, Tom. Thanks a million! How about a repeat soon and it won't be so much like a "general confession" to get accomplished. 
JIM JENNINGS has a swell idea for the Army game. He wants to have a special '35 part>-, probably in Chicago, the night before the game. We're investigating the possibilities now and, if things work out, will try hard to get word to everybody. 
After sending in our original copy, the following letter arrived from JACK BRAYMER, Tulsa, Okla. Aside from entertaining Jack's mother and sister in New Orleans eight years ago, we have heard nothing of the Braymer fanuly since '33. 
As you will read, Jack had an idea similar to JIM JENNINGS about a "reunion" at the Notre Dame-Army game. FRED BROOKMEYER stopped in town again, the middle of September. We erred in our copy last trip to press. Fred is general sales manager for the NJars Signal Light Co., not the Maris Co. 
Here is Braymer, and thanks to him for writing: 
"Considerable water under the bridge since our da>-s in Sorin, and I haven't been too good about keeping up with old classmates either. Of course, there are few alumni in this part of the country who were of the class of '35 or thereabouts. 
"I am still with Phillips Petroleum Comvany in Bartlesville (headquarters). Looks as though I am 
SPOTLIGHT ALUMNUS 
DR. CHARLES A. HUFNAGEL, '37, has taken long strides in the field of surgery since he left Notre Dame ten years ago. One of his recent discoveries was described in Time magazine as follows: 
"A break in the aorta, the big artery leading away from the heart, is hard to re­pair; surgeons have tried patching with a length of metal tube, transplanted blood vessels, etc.—without great success. Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel of Harvard Medical School described a new patch that he thinks 
DR. CHARLES A. HUFNAGEL. '37 ' 
may fill the bill (it worked well on dogs). His invention: a tube of lucite, the glass­like plastic. Attached to separate ends of the aorta, a lucite patch lets the blood flow freely without clotting, becomes firmly at­tached to the artery, can be left in the body permanently." 
After completing his work at Notre Dame, Dr. Hufnagel enrolled at Harvard. "There," he said, "it was a great change from Notre Dame in that there was relatively little guidance of the student in his study and he was left pretty much alone until exam time." 
After receiving his M.D. in 1941, Dr. Hufnagel became a resident in pathology at Mallory Institute of Pathology, Boston, as a preliminary to surgery. In 1942 he went to Peter Bent Brigham Hospital for surgical internship. This, was combined with intern­ship in Boston Children's Hospital. When his work was completed he was kept as assistant resident in surgery at Brigham. 
Next Dr. Hufnagel "was assigned to the Harvard Laboratory for Surgical Research as the Arthur T. Cabot Fellow. During this time he taught surgical technic in the medi­cal school and did research in vascular sur­gery. With Dr. Robert Gross he developed a new end to end anastomosis technic for coarctation of the aorta and the use of lucite tubes. He also worked with Dr. Meicier Fauteux, now of McGill, on pcricoronary sympathectomy and coronary vein ligation for angina pectoris. 
Meantime, Dr. Hufnagel's father died and the Notre Dame alumnus took over the elder Hufnagel's practice and. did surgery in Richmond, Ind., for a little more than a year. 
A strong interest in surgical research caused Dr. Hufnagel to close his office temporarily and return to work on some of the pressing vascular problems at Harvard Surgical Laboratory. He is working on a paper explaining the feasibility of homo­logous arterial transplants and the technic of freezing and storing blood vessels for emergency and routine use—essentially an arterial bank similar to corneal banks and blood banks. 
finally well siuled after living in Wichita, Kans; Seminole, OMa; Oklahoma City, OUa; Shreveport, La; Houston, Tex; Evansville, Ind. Have been here since IM! (2035 Dewey Avenue, BartlesvUle, OUa.) except for spencttng three years in the Navy. Was a lieutenant and spent considerable time aboard a sub-chaser (PC) in the Pacific. Was separated Irom service in Jaonuary *46 in Frisco. Attended a big Notre Dame alumni get-together in Hawaii back in '44 but no one else was present from our class. 
"Could you by any chance give me LOU DUNN'S address or JACK McDONALD'S. Haven't heard from them in years and years. Saw VIC CARTON in St. Louis back in '39. Wonder where he is by now? I am planning on being at the Army game. Where would one be most likely to.find classmates in South Bend at that time? Will you be one of the fortunate spectators?" 
We have heard nothing about Lou Dunn and Jack McDonald in years. Jack. Maybe this will stir them and VIC CARTON into writing us their autobiography since graduation. 
Because we felt many of you shared Jim's and Jack's desire for a class "reunion" over the .Army-Notre Dame game week-^nd, we went ahead with plans. Since JIM CRONIN from our own crowd was chairman of the Chicago Club Pre^Iame Rally, we wrote and asked him to assume co-chairmanslup with ART CONRAD, of a '35 get-together as a part ot the Chicago rally. 
You all received letters which the Aluiani OiF.ce sent out for us. We hope you sent your J3.0a check and advance reservation directly to JIM CRONIN in Chicago. If you have not—do it at once as no one will be able to get in the night of the party without a reservation! 
It should be a .big night in the Grand Ballroom of the Stevens Hotel on Nov. 7. We wish we could be with you. 
Remember, identify yourself when you go in as a member of the '35 class. 
JOHN H. LOGAN, who is practicing law in Fort Wayne, has been appointed district deputy of thft fourth district of Indiana for the Knights of Colum­bus. 
BROTHER EDMUND HUNT, C.S.C., president of St. Edward's University, Austin, Tex., is to translate selected works of Ennodius for the 72-volume series, Tht Wrilnts of Ike Fathers of Ike Ckmrch, now in process of publication. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1936 Joseph F. Mcms&eld, National Broodcasfing Co., 30 Bockefeller ^lasa. Radio City, New York, 
N. Y. 

ANTHONY M. MITCHELL, after four year^ in the Naw* is now living in San Diego, Calif., where he is the city^s suimming supen-'isor. Married before the war, he has a four->-car-oId daughter. 
RICHARD J. CAMP is successfully battling pro­duction problems at the Camp Plating Works, in Tacoma, Wash., reports PHILIPPE T. HOSTER­MAN, *37. Phil added that factor>- representatives in the east who arc interested in adding a good line can do so by contacting Dick, who manufactures nationally distributed bathroom fixtures under the trade name of Kam-Krome. 
109 7 F'anlc J. Reilly, MacNoir-Dorland IT^f Cow 254 W. 31st St, N. Y. C, WALTER SMYTH is now located in Richland, Wash., where he is employed in the personnel de­partment of General Electric. 
1938 Harold A. Williams, 4323 Marble Hall Rd., Baltimore, MA 
From HAL WILLIAMS: 
Top honors of the month go to smiling DON HICKEY of South Bend who has established a new record in class reporting by contributing eight letters since the last issue. Don reports the following: 
"Saw HARVEY FOSTER, the gun man. He's number one FBI agent in our State. I'll send some of his clippings the next time they appear in the local. He's also the best pistol shot in the outfit. JOE RUETZ attended summer school on the campus. He studies at the Universit>- of Chicago during the regular term. CHUCK REDDY is a lawjcr and looks exceedingly healthy. I'm teaming with JACK MOULDER in a four-day golf tournament at the South Bend Country Club next month. . . 
"CHARLEY DUKE, manager of the St. Joseph County Airport, addressed the Rotar>- Club the lattei part of July on the present facilities of the airpoit and the plans for expansion. I heard the address and it was great. Charley has a fine command of English, a swell deliverj', and, \vhat's more, the speech wasn't read." Don forwarded clippings from the South Bend 'Tribune" on the talk, which im­ported it in full; ran a column and a half. 
A few da\-s later, Hjckey reported, 'Talked to DON FISHER, the old football manager. He is lending his skills to selling insurance to the locals. Had a letter from JACK (Pitsburgh) O'DONNELL, on some imporant business issue—he wanted to know the price of dgarcttes in Indiana. FATHER JOE RACE was in tou-n, but I didn't see him. . . . 
"CHUCK BOROWSKI, the ex-slugger and out­fielder of the Klincmen, is back in uniform—as a meniber of the South Bend police force. PAUL KISZELI is back at school. He must be studpng aeronautics—he wears a\-iator's specs. . . - WALT FEGAN was in the Bend about three weeks ago for a visit with his parents and has returned to New York. JOHN MONAHAN gets back on week­ends. Oh ^-cs. Moulder and I didn't reach the top in that golf tournament. 
"D.\NNY GIBBS dropped in Tuesday, apparently all the way from Colorado. He must be after Army game tickets. BERNIE CRI^^MINS was with him. JOE PAWLOUSKI, the ex-drum major and glee clubber, ran for city judge . the past election and made a good showing. . . . M.ARCELLUS BALL, of PI>Tnouth, Ind., is out at Bendix. SWEDE BAUER is still at Ball Band and HWng just outside South Bend. . . . CHUCK SWEENEY lives in Fontiac, Iblich., and I hear he has five lovely children. Chuck is with Sinclair and doing nicely. I don't know whether he'll officiate in the pro leagues this year. . ." 
Thanks, Don, for the eight leters and a perfor­mance beyond the call of duty. Hickey is now firmly entrenched as the class's number one man. 
The next honors go to Mrs. MARCELLUS F. BALL who writes from 521 E. Klinger, South Bend, 
14. She writes: "Since you arc asking for news of ihc dass of '38 I thought you might be interested to know that my husband and I had our fifth boy in 
SPOTtfGHT ALUMNUS 
Two Notre Dame students, Vincent McAloon, and Carl Bauer, met on the cam­pus several years ago and found that they had similar ideas about Catholic Action. 
The years pass. Last fall with the help of William Schirra, of Cleveland, an experi­enced fanner, they leased an 86-acre farm and 13-room house at Herman, Pa., about 40 miles north of Pittsburgh. They chose a farm, not that they are promoting a rural life mo%ement, but because it serves as a place for healthful relaxation, seclusion for study, and a means of subsistence. 
WILLIAM F. CLEARY. *40 

The farm, called The Center for Men of Christ The King, is used as a school for training "Catholic laymen for their new role of action and conquest." Principles of Cath­olic .'\ction are taught and methods and techniques used in this' country and throughout the world are studied. 
The Center has received approbation and encouragement from Bishop Hugh C. Boyle, of Pittsburgh, and in its first two courses en­rolled men mainly from that city. How­ever, applicants from "all parts of the coun­try are welcomed. Two three-week courses in Catholic Action were offered at the farm last summer. 
One of the latest and most valuable addi­tions to the staff is William Cleary, who received his B.S. in chemical engineering at Notre Dame in 1940. He worked for an aeronautical firm for three years after grad­uation. He entered the Navy in 1943 and served as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Southwest Pacific, Upon discharge, he went directly to the Center for Men of Christ The King to take over the position of secretary, which has turned into a jack-of-all-trades job. 
Part of the instructions given to prospec­
tive Catholic lay leaders before they arrive  
for a week-end course at the Center reads  %  
as follows:  
"NOTICE—^It is necessary that each  
applicant provide himself with a suit of  
warm work clothes, a pair of work shoes,  
writing materials, and missal."  
June. Also wc are moving into our new home this  
H-eek-«nd which is a thrill for us because we out­ 
grew this apartment after the second boy. Sorry  
I don't have news of anyone else, but the boys  
keep us so busy that we don't have time to write  
to \-ery many people. -Right now I*m rocking the  
baby's buggy with one foot."  
Thanks, ^(rs. Ball, for the fine note. I hope  
your letter shames some of our lazy classmates into  
writing. She has fi\*e children, fellou-s, hut she still  
has time to write the column—white she rocks the  
baby's buggy u.-ith one footi  
Another letter from the Bend — this time from  
another five star contributor. CHARLIE CALLA­ 
HAN. Writes Charlie on the stationery of the  ^  
Department of Public Information, Univei^ity of  W  
Notre Dame: "In Milwaukee at the Central Collegi­ 
ate track meet I talked to FATHER JOE RACE  
who is looking forward to the 10-ycar reunion.  
FATHER BILL BOTZUM, C.S.C., is studying at  
the University of Chicago. BOB DuBOIS, of Elm­ 
hurst, Bl., and AL VAN HOLLEBEKE, of Detroit,  
with their wives, were campus visitun recently.  
JACK ANTON stopped in recently. He's a bank  
examiner, working out of Chicago, and still un­ 
married. BILL MEHRING, two or three children,  
recently received a promotion with the Com Prod­ 
ucts Co., of Argo, 111. Bill, from Huntington, Ind.,  
has recovered from his South Pacific malaria. Busi­ 
ness is booming at DON HICKEY'S Fiesta even  
though he spends most of his time writing letters  
to the column. DON FISHER is doing well as an  
insurance agent; he just sold me a policy."  
Thank you, Charlie. In return tor all your  
kindness 1 hope that none of our classmates bother  
you for tickets to the Army game.  
And now a letter from the old class president,  
JOHNNY O'CONNOR, who lives at 4225 Park  
Ave., and who has a law office at 108 £. Washington  
Bldg., Indianapolis, 4, Ind. He writes: **I have  
been practicing law here since leaving the Na\T and  
I am doing as weH as could be expected. We have  
two children now, the last being John Dennis, born  .^-.  
the first of this year. JIM CARSON is living in  ~  
Anderson, Ind. I understand that he and TOM  
FUNK argue basketball throughout the year. I  
see DAVE CONNOR and EDDIE KILRAIN quite  
often. GEORGE SAUTER is still in Indianapolis,  
although I regret to say we see little of each other.  
BOB LANGER was visiting in town last winter.  
He now lives in Atlanta, Ga."  
Johnny also discussed the coming ten-year reunion  
and hopes that we will be able to get a large  
group togther. Do any of you fellou-s have any  
special ideas—any ideas—for the reunion or gathering  
the men? Let's start making plans now.  
FRANK REILLY, '37, dropped into the "Sun"  
office this summer. He's with MacNair-Dorland Co.,  
Inc., printers and publishers, of New York. He  
looks good. ED BARTNETT has been getting by­ 
lines in the New York Times. And that's it for  
tills month.  
I don't expect you felloH-s to do a Hickey, but  
you can at least write a note. Airs. Ball, mother  
of fi^'e boys, did it—while she rocked the baby  
buggy with one foot.  
DR. JOSEPH C. CLIFFOIU) is now practicing  
dentistry in New Haven, Conn. His ofhces are in  
the Century building, 365 Church St.  
BILL SHERIDAN, assbtant district attorney in  
the Canal Zone, has returned to Panama after a  
vacation in the U. S.  
JOSEPH A. CALLAHAN, 9143—79th St., Wood- 
haven, Long Island, has been assigned to the 314th  
MiUtary Police Battalion, Organized Reserve, Brook­ 

^ lyn, N. Y., with the rank of lieutenant colonel. Joe^ 
P now a publicist with Faramount Pictures in New York, spent 32 months in Europe as CO of the 503rd MP Battalion. Participating in the French-Morocco, Roipe-Amo, Sidly, and Southern France campaigns, he was awarded the Bronze Star and Army Commendation Ribbon. 
1939 Vincent DeCoursey, 1917 EUza­betlb Kansas City 2. Kansas 
JOE HARRINGTON, who sends in notes con­cerning practically all alumni in Panama and a goodly portion of Central America, writes the follow­ing about himself: "Yours truly recently spent a couple of weeks in the mountains of Costa Rica and since returning to Panama have been appointed general manager of the Panama Warehouses, Inc., and its subsidiary, the Commercial Credit Corp. of Panama. It has been a big jump for me, especially since we are expecting an heir in the family from day to day now. I am expecting a halfback for the team of 1966." 
BROTHER SERGIUS ROGAN, C.S.C., who was assistant treasurer at Notre Dame, has taken up hb new duties as administrator of the book store at King*s College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
1940 Bobert G. Sanforcl 1226 W. V^ ­consin ATC . KClwaukee, Ws . 
LEO KRIZIZA took a year's leave of absence from his job with the Panama Canal to return to school in the U. 5. His wife, also a canal em­ployee, accompanied him. 
PETER ARBOrr has been added to the faculty of St. Bede College and Academy, Peru, HI. He is teaching algebra and physics in the academy and mechanical drawing in the college, and is coach of the basketball, baseball and the sophomore-freshman football teams. 
1941 lohn W. Pcrttenon. Jr.. 5530 Dar­lington Bd„ Pittsburgh, Pa. 
DR. SALVATORE La PILUSA, who was with the Quarantine Scr\-ice in Cristobal, has returned to the V. S. 
FRANCIS A. GRUNENFELDER has been ap­pointed head football coach and instructor of mathe­matics at Shattuck School, Faribault, Minn. 
JIM REEDY, who is engaged in scientific re­search in New Mexico, was a campus visitor with his wife last month. 
BOB SASS has accepted a position as controller with Loveman, Joseph & Loeb in Birtningliam, Ala. 
1942 l/miiom E. Scanlan. 213 N. Cuyler St. Oak Pork, HI. 
DR. JOHN D. HOGAN accepted an appointment as instructor in the School of Dentistry, College of Ph)3icians and Surgeons, Columbia University. Dr. Hogan will also maintain his practice in Glen Rock, 
N.J. 
GEORGE E. YORK received his medical degree from the Albany Medical School last June. 

CAPT. THOMAS CODY was serving at the Army weather station at France Field in Panama until recently. 
A M.A. degree was awarded to DANIEL L. KLEIN by Ohio State University last August. 
1943 Edward C. Honey. 1723 botiuois ATGU Detroit ^Cch. 

The long arm of coincidence really stretched to the fullest for GENE A. FEHLIG last August. At Butte, Mont., 3,300 feet below the surface in the Leonard Mine of the ACM Co., Gene ran into JIM DELANEY, who did a lot of shot-putting for Notre Dame. Jim, enroute to San Francisco, stopped off in Butte while Gene was showing relatives through the mine. Gene, who has two daughters, is living in Helena, Mont. 
ANTHONY J. BUONO has been appointed assist­ant to head coach JIM CURRAN at Notre Dame High School in New Haven, Conn. 
WILLIAM A. TERHEYDEN, Jr., was graduated from Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia last June, 
F. GERARD FEENEY and GEORGE S. STRATI­GOS, both of whom received law degrees at Notre Dame last June, have opened offices in the J.M.S. Bldg., rooms 222 and 223, in South Bend. 
BILL HERZOG, 3712 N. Charles St., Baltimore 18, Md., has accepted a sales position with the 
U. S. Gj-psum Co. in Baltimore. 
1Q3A ^^^ ^' ^7°<^ 15724 GrandTiUe 
•'TlHd.. Detroit 23. Mch. 
From JOHN A. LYNCH: 

JOE GALL had things under control in Washing­ton, D. C , in the middle of the summer and pen­ned the following: 
"Am still at Georgetown Law with quite a few of the boys from Notre Dame, especially from tlie class of '41. It's like pulling teeth for me, but Pm here. 
^^^^^•v^^^^^^^^^^^^^^M^^^^^^^^^^^^^^AM^^^^^^tf^n^ 
Mike Rodin. '44. and the iormer Mary Margaret Schramm, married June 7 in Biulinglon. la. 
"I was married to Margaret Frances Shea of Nachus, N. M., on June 14 and we are now settled in a small apartment. ED DOWLING was my best man and BILL WALDRON one of the ushers. On the way down here after the wedding Peggy and I stopped for a two day visit with Bill and bis wife Ann at their Livingston, N. J., home. 
"My wifc*s brother is a' West Point graduate, so the betting and feuding is hot and heavy on that ball game Nov. 8. My mother-in-law also gets in a plug for West Point now and then. How about that—with a name like Shea? 
"Does anyone have word of JOHN PRINCE? I wrote and asked Iklrs. T. Cook of South Bend, but she's forgotten to give me the lowdpwn. Perhaps he*s running for mayor of Ann Arbor now.** 
If J. Knee wants to come thtongli inth a fetter now, Joe's address is 57 Fairagut Place, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
"BLACK JOHN' MURPHY, Agnes and Johniiie m , left Notre Dame's Vet\^lle this summer and are DOW Uving in Hammond, Ind., at 6438 GarfieH. The Mur]A has a high-sounding position as assist­ant personnel manager of United States Gypsum's plant in East Chicago. 
News from Murph, is as follows: 
"Called JIM KANE when I was in Chicago recently and he had just flown back from New York where he was best man for JACK SULUVAN. He tells me JACK KELLY is now married and that RED McCAFFERTY is due for the step soon. 
"Called JIM LLOYD next. He is working for the First National Bank at present and living in an apartment in Chicago. He told me that BILL SHEA, ex. '43, now '47, is back on the bus circuit after piling up their new Plymouth. About a month ago TOM O'CONNOR came down from Chicago, where he is employed at Sears in advertising. Brother JACK O'CONNOR, '47, is working for Reynolds Metals and doing very well. 
"FRAN COLEMAN, '46, was a salesman in our Chicago office, but left last month for a better opportunity in Oluo. JERRY COLEMAN is now a rcstaurater in his home town of Shelby, O. Ran into LEO DONATI in St. Louis while I was on a bttsiaess trip retentiy. He expects to enter grad school in the Fall as a history major. 
"Good to see CHARLIE LOBUE in print in the recent **AIumnus." Ha\-en't seen him for over five years. Pass on the best of luck to JACK WOELFLE in his new %enture." 
MIKE RODIN sent us a short report Aug. 5 on his personal state of affairs. On June 7 he joined the benedict ranks in Burlington, Jz. His bride is the former Ihfary Margaret Schramm of Chicago, South Bend and, recently, Burlington. Mike has finished a year of graduate work at the University of Iowa and will work in Tulsa, Okla., as a geophysicist for the Carter Oil Co. 
Also heard from is ED DRINKARD, now living in South Bend at 702 N. St. Joseph Street. Ed, having worked his way through the A.B. school, is. studpng electrical engineering at Notre Dame. He said that JOHN MORRISON is married and back at school teaching philosophy. 
FRANK KUNKEL, '43, wrote in early August that he wasfinishing the stmuner scsaon at Cdumbia. Also attending through the summer were DICK POWERS and JOE TRACY. Frank said that JOE HILLEBRAND had left the graduate school at Chicago University and was in the East looking for something else. 
And we haw just learned that Frank himself, after completing his master's thesis, will return to Notre Dame to teach English. Other new additions to the English faculty include KELLY COOK and DICK AMES. Kelly has found a house in South Bend and will be moving his family in soon. 
And one more benedict. PAUL LARSON was married in Indianapolis, Sept. 27. His bride is the former Rita Elizabeth Savai^e. 
F. J. "TEX" PEQUIGNEY received an M.A. degree from the University of Minnesota last August. 
A Norfolk, Va., nurse being carried out to sea by a strong undertow at Virginia Beach, Va., was rescued by TOM CONATY and another Hunting­ton, W. Va., man while they were on vacation there in August. Tom entered the Medical College at the University of Virginia last month. 
DR. JOHN UTZ is one of four United Stales physidans to receive the Rotary foundation fellow­ship for a year's study in London at the School of Hygiene and Tropical Xfedidne. John completed his internship at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston last June and was married in July. 
ARNOLD C. NUNNDJK recently completed an orientation course given by the International Tele­graph Co. in the Research Department. 
DR. ROBERT E. FUXSCH is no\v resident in Surgery at St. Luke*s hospital in St. Louis. 
ANGELO BERTELLI saw hic first practice on Cartier field in four years on Oct. 6. Hobbling on a cane as the result of a recent knee operation which will keep him out of the Clncaso Rockets' pro team lineup for perhaps the rest of the season, he was accompanied by HERB COLEMAN, now-center of the Rockets. Because he w-as unable to find an apartment in Chicago, Bertelli's wife and cliild are residing in Bert's home in West Spring­field, Mass. 
CHARLES BERGER is teaching chemistry- and algebra at St- Bede College and Academy, Peru, III. 
IQ^ C James W. Scbaeffer, P. O. Box 
•'^^3B9, Schenectady, N. Y. 
From JIM SCHAEFFER: 

A little news this month after slim pickings during tlie summer season. Remember—if it's news, don't write *'Scoop'*—imte Schaeffer. 
On top of the pile of letters this month is a welcome note from BOB HELLM.-\NX. "I'm teaching Business .Administration subjects at the Salmon P. Chase college here and in between I attend classes at the University of Cincinnati. Teach­ing has been pleasant and thoroughly enjo\-abIe, but the present hot spell is somewhat trying and we're all looking forward to the end of the term next Friday. 
" I haven't heard from any of the men in the class, but I hope coming issues of the '.\LUMXUS' will indicate their whereabouts." Bob's address is: 222 Calhoun St., Cindnnati 19. 
As far as the summer heat w-as concerned, Hell­mann was lucky—JIM BUTLER, Waukegan's pride and joy, was working on an open heartii project in a Chicago steel mill. Those places aren't air-conditioned. Jim writes, "I'm located in Chicago with Carnegie Steel as a development metallurgist in the Research Department. For about eight months my duties were more or less obscr\'ation; I traveled about the mill imbibing all the knowl­edge I could, thus obtaining a basic overall picture of the steel indusir>-. My present assignment is a project in the open hearth." 
"For a few months I lived in the neighborhood of TO M McCAUGHEY, and didn't know it until we bumped into each other at the Illinois Central Station. Tom is slud>-ing for his law degree­
**ED FAUST was in Chicago some time ago and he looked mighty fine in dvilian togs plus fedora. \Vc spent a few hours together. Ed is engaged and he informed me that GEORGE SIPPEL has taken the first step also. 
"Aftbther roommate, RAY KOPITUK, has been writing me. ED LA ROQUE is with International Harvester at Fort Wayne. Tubby is still a single, carefree citizen. It seems tliat he and I are the only two of us metallurgists who aren't settling dow-n soon. 
"The other day at work I saw JOHX HOSBELV. "Hose" is with Dletrick Engineers, and of all places to sec him—I was on top of the open hearth roof of the furnace to which I am assigned. He looks in great shape." 
Smiling JIM CLYNES reports in from Ithaca, 

N. Y. " I played in the Finger Lakes Golf Tourna­ment held at Coming. I was medalist with a three under par 69. When the reporter phoned the score into the paper, the fellow on the other end of the line asked if I went to Notre Dame. The fellow turned out to be JAY McGUIRE, who started in 1942 and will graduate this year. It's a small world. He came out to the course and we had a long talk. 
" I haven't beard from many of the boys, but I 

major tournaments this summer and was medalist in all of them. Confidentially I didn't win any of them. I must be getting old." 
A note from JIM RETTER sa>ing he's with Carbide and Carbon in New York as a technical representative. Jim writes, " I sec BILL CAREY often since he lives nearby at the International House. I'm single and happy and doing very well in my w-ork. I'd like to write more but just got back from my vacation (I spent it at Lake Placid and home in Pittsbuigh} and work is all around me." 
From Burlington, la., rejwrts LOU LAUTH. "I've been married since 1945, so that's not news. However, Bonnie and I have a little girl, Constance Eileen, just eight months old. No walkie, no talkie, but four loothie. We all huddle together under the roof of our own little bungalow here in Burlington. One of those lucky dogs who owns a house and lot, you see. 
"I'm working for the Benner Tea Co., a corpora­tion that mothers a chain of 35 Benner stores and 70 odd independent wholesale units. My position is called 'groccr>" buyer* a broad- term if handled loosely- Specifically, I 'buy* approximately 700 items, from soup to nuts. 
"One fcUcv.- who didn't graduate from Notre Dame, but would have been in our -class had he not been in prc-med V-12, and been shipped out, died Aug. 8. He passed on at Indiana U. of an incurable mabdy at the age of 21. A swell fellow-named JAMES QUINN. Some of our class may remember him from Brecn-Phillips and Zahm halts." 
BOB LARKIN sends some hot scoops from Newark, N. J., where he's been a mainstay of the Newark '"Evening New-s" for the past three years. "It's a slow grind," sa^-s Bob, *'but ver>' interesting work as I am connected with the Sports Depart­ment. In fact, last season I was out at Notre Dame to cover the Pittsburgh game and spent a w-eek roaming about the campus and covering football practice. I'm still in the bachelor class and at present have nothing in sight to change that status. I'm active down here in the Jersey Club, at least attend meetings. Also down here from the class of 1945 is PETER BELMONT, who also resides in Moniclair. Pete is with the Prudential Insurance Co. of Newark and is making out quite well. 
"I hear quite regularly from two other M5ers—  
JIM KELLY and JIM HORGAN. Both ha\*e  _  
arrived in Switzerland where they are attending a  ^  
Uni\-enity, the name of which escapes me at the  
moment.*'  
A last-minute letter has popped in from BOB  
O'CALLAGHAN, Ironwood, Slich. Bob was injured  
quite severely while ser\'ing in the Army overseas in  
1944. Was just discharged from the Vet Hospital  
at Hines, III. "Plan on going to work in the local  
radio station in the near future," Bob uTiies. "Don't  
have much news. See R/\Y ELBI, *42, occasionally.  
He played pro football with BufFalo of the All- 
American Conference last year but did not return  
this year. Have news of a couple of Ironwood lads  
who had war ser\-ice at Notre Dame—ERNIE KI­ 
VISTO who pla>-ed basketball on the 1943-44 team  
while a Marine trainee, and PHIL ANDERSON,  
star pole vaultcr on the track team while in the  
same ser\-ice. Know anything about JOHN BARN­ 
ETT and T. E. DAUGHTERY?"  
Ending up the news this month are two items  
—Mr. and Mrs. DAVID WALSH announced back  
in ^lay the arri\-al of Mark Michael at Georgetown  
Hospital in Washington, D. C. And DR. DONALD  
STECHSCHULTE is a Naral lieutenant, stationed  
at Pcnsacola, Fla.  
The Harlan Fiske Stone scholarship at Columbia  
Univcrsitj- for 1947-48 has been awarded to HARRY  
J. WALTERS of the Bronx, N. Y. Harry is the  
third Notre Dame man to receive the law scholar­ 
ship, JOSEPH P. CARR, MO, Gar>-, ludiana, and  
RALPH A. GERRA, '41, Brooklyn, N. Y., being  
the others who held it.  
JOHN J. DOWLING and WILLIAM P. COGH­ 
LAN received medical degrees last June from Jeffer­ 
son Medical College in Philadelphia. FR/\NCIS P.  
NASH was av\'arded his M.D. by St. Louis University  
Medical School.  
LORENZO ROMAGOSA was elected president of  
the Panama Junior Chamber of Commerce. Both  
he and JOSE CARDENAS are in business in Pana­ 
ma, and both won golf tournaments last summer.  
ROBERT P. D. MORRISSEY is doing graduate  
work at the University of Chicago while on a year's  
leave of absence from the Stale Department's Foreign  
Scr\-ice.  

did get a letter from ANDY LIPNOSKY from Mexico, but he Tailed to mention what he was Joseph F. Lanigcm, '45, right and Harold A. Berliner, '44, left, comprise the print­doing there. 
ing firm oi Berliner and Lanigan, Nevada Citr* Calil, which spedalizes in fine print­
ing, especially in the Catholic field. Their 'staff" appears with them here. 
*'An interesting note Is that I played in four 

HAROLD A. BERLINER and JOSEPH F. LAN­IGAN, '-M, who arc operating a publishing house in Nevada City, Calif., arc printing a series of monthly pamphlets, "Pamphlets for the Church Militant." They recently published a book by Notre Dame professor ^VILL1S D. NUTTING. 
1946 
JOHN B. IMBODEN has been aw-arded the Henry Strong Denison Scholarship for 1947-48 for a year's study in Johns Hopkins University School of Medl­ane. He will receive his degree next June. 
JIM FLANAGAN, who won a monogram as an end on the 1943 national championship eleven, has entered the Boston arch-dioscesan seminary of St. John at Brighton, Mass., to begin his studies for the priesthood. A knee injury kept him on the sidelines last year. 
JQATf I- D. Usina, 219 S. Scott St.. South 
•'^ ' Bend. 2.IiicL 
From J. D. USINA: 

Our pleas for news from the members of the class voiced in the August issue of the 'ALXJMNUS' baven*t had time to har\'est results so this month's copy is rather slender. 
My lifcsaver in the \\'ay of news was JACK HOUGHTELING who is employed with Vince Edwards and Co., an advertising service Jn Chicago. Jack passed through South Bend on a trip to Niles and left this stuff about the Chicagoland outfit: 
BILL WICKS has left the United Press in Mil­waukee and currently is planning to enter adverting somewhere in Chicago. 
BILL HOWE is working with Montgomery-Ward in Chicago. ALT LaBERGE, Ma>-wood, III., taught at telemion school in Chic^o during the summer and now is back at Notre Dame for graduate work. JOE CONERTY, Cr>-stal Lake, 111., is also back at Notre Dame, enrolled in law school. 
PAUL HEIMANN, MassiHon, O., is married and living in Chicago, working in the Engineering de­partment of Ekco Products Co. JACK LEAHY, another Chicagoan, is in the executive training program of International Har\-ester. 
With the Chicago "Tribune" in advertising are: BILL WADDINGTON, HENRY SLAMIN, and HARRY MacLAUGHLIN. 
In addition to Jack's news, I had letters from HARRY GILLIGAN and' BILL BERK. Harry just returned from a thrcewcck vacation with FRANK GILLIGAN at Lcland, Mich. They saw ED BALL while there. Bill Berk didn't have much to say about other Notre Dame men but he did say he was pleased with the way Notre Dame won the All-Star game that hot night in Chicago. 
SMITH HIGGINS, Jr., has been appointed a full time member of the Indiana University extension faculty. He is teaching mathematics in the South Bend-Mishawaka area. 
ANDREW J. BURKE, Brooklyn, is currently enrolled in a training course given by the Inter­national Telephone and Telegraph Corp. of New York to prepare recent college graduates in its em­ploy for adrancemcnt to positions of supcr\'isory or technical responsibility. 
JOHN S. STEHLIN and JA^fES S. BOREN re­ceived medical degrees last June, Stchlin from Mar­quette University and Boren from Tulane. 
Notre Dame High School, which opened last month in North Hollywood, Calif., has a Notre Dame man at the football helm. JOHN GLAAB is the man doing the coaching. BROTHER RUPERT, C.S.C, is the headmaster. 
JACK SWAIN is employed in the art department of B. Altman's big New York store. 
BOB McBRIDE, who refused to sign a pro foot­ball contract because "I'm a born family man and I iran't see beating around the country on a pro football merr>--go-round," is coaching and teaching at Mount Carrael high school in Chicago and spend­ing his spare moments with his wife and year-old son. 
RICHARD J. MARTINEK is working as a chem­ist for Ball Band in Mishawaka. 
JAMES DURBIN is becoming thoroughly acquaint­ed with the hotel business at the Hotel Davenport, Spokane, Wash., where he is employed. 
EDWIN E. KLARECKI has been appointed a special agent of the FBI. He is now in training at Quantico, Va. 
— business men, educators, lawyers 
yOUR Law Quarterly for November features five timely articles by leading authorities on: „ 
^™» Community Property 
William Q. De Funiak writes on "The Supreme Court and the Wiener Case." 
^• » Toxaf ion 

"Twelve Times and Out" reviews constitutional question of the Indiana ^oss income tax law. 
•^ Nurnberg Trials 

In retrospect. A French view of legal and moral aspects of the trials. 
^^ Naval Law 

A complete picture of new and proposed changes; review of important cases. 
•^•^ Philosophy and Law 
Anton-Hermann Chroust discusses the dialogues Minos attributed to a disciple of Plato. 
PLUS 
UP-TO-THE-MINUTE COMMENTS ON RECENT DECISIONS, CURRENT LEGISLATION, LEGAL PROBLEMS, AND REVIEWS OF IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS DEALING IN LAW. 
The Notre Dame Lawyer, law journal of the oldest Cathohc law college in the United States, appear four times yearly. Subscription prices are ^.00 the year for Regular Subscribers, ^10.00 the year for Sustaining Subscribers. Sustaining subscribers are listed in each issue of The Notre Dame Lawyer and in the Notre Dame Legal Directory of Sustaining Subscribers. 
i THE NOTRE DAME LAWYER \ i P. 0. Box 185 (Date) , 194 .... '• ! Notre Dame, Indiana 
• Enclosed find $ to cover cost of my subscription as ; 1 Q Regular Subscriber [[] Sustaining Subscriber. \ 
! Name.— 
I Address 

^4/iecio^ of Clubs and Their Presidents » » 
PHOENIX, Ariz.—John P. Joyce, MO, S30 Forest Ave., Tempe, Ariz. 
TDCSON, Ariz.—Ted W. 'Wltz, '29. Box 628 
ARKANSAS—^Burt L. Roberts, 'IC. 1325 Lincoln Ave.. Little Rock 
(secretary) 

LOS ANGELES, Calif.—Thomas R. Ashe, 'SI. Globe Oil Tools Co., 
Los Nietos, Calii. 

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA—John W. Carey, Ml, Hanna Center tor Boys, 7S5 Market, Rm. 402, San Francisco (San Francisco area) DENVER—Dr. Daniel G. Monaghan, '38, 440 •Wililam 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY (Conn.)—^Floyd R. Richards, M2, Radio Sta­tion WTIC, Hartford (Hartford area)' 
NATJGATOCK VALLEY (Conn.)—D. Frank Mumane, 'SS. Summit Hd., Prospect, Conn. (Waterbury area) 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT—John J. Galla, "33, 303 SpriOB St., Bridgeport (Bridgeport area) 
DELAWARE—Arthur A. Baum, "36, 1310 Van Buren St., Apt. 3-C. 
W^ilminston 

WASHINGTON, D. C—Daniel Culhane, '23, 3540 39th St., N. W. 
FLORIDA—George A. Brautigam, '29, 53S N. E. 55th Terrace. Miami, Fla. 
CHICAGO, III.—Thomas S. McCabe, '22, 11 S. LaSalle St. 
ILLINOIS FOX VALLEY—Dr. Philip C. Hemming, '29, 399 Vincent PI., Elgin, III. (Aurora-Elgin area) 
i.rOLIET, ni.—Joseph V. Kirlncich, "33. 306 Huby St. 
PEORIA, 111.—Daniel J. Hecht, M4, c/o Adams Typewriter Co., 227 
S. Jefferson St. 

BOCK RIVER VALLEY. III.—Donald A. Hennessy, '37, Catholic Community High School, Sterling, 111. (Rockford-Dlxon area) 
SPRINGFIELD, 111.—Nicholas C. Amrhein, '39. 1623 S. Fourth St. 
CALUMET DISTRICT—Fred J. Solman, Jr., '28, 5752 Erie Ave., Hammond, Ind. (secretary) (Garj'-Hammond area) 
EASTERN INDIANA—Charles F. Vogt, 207% E. Main St., Muncie 
(Muncie area) 

ITORT 'WAYNE, Ind.—^Bernard T. Kearns, '29, 903 Pasadena Drive 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind.—Patrick J. Fisher, '36, 616 Indiana Trust Biag. MICHIGAN CITY, Ind.—Hugh L. Burns, '39, Department of Athletics, Notre Dame, Ind. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Ind. and Mich.)—John E. Mclntyre, '31, 1514 
E. LaSalle St., South Bend (South Bend area) 

TRI-STATB (Ky., Ind. and 111.)—Francis J. Henneberger, '31. 502 N. Hart St:, Princeton, Ind. (Evansville-Vincennes area) 
WABASH VALLEY, Ind.—D. Emmett Ferguson, '32, 721 N. 9th St., Lafayette, Ind. (Lafayette area) 
DES MOINES, la.—Joseph E. Whalen, '29, Hotel Savery 
DUBUQUE, la.—C. L Krajewski. '16, 1775 S. GrandvIIIe Ave. 
SIOUX CITY, la,—Robert A- Manning, '36, 2719 Nebraska St. 
(key man) 

TRI-CITIBS (III. and Iowa)—John F. McDonnell, '35, 30 Oak Lane, Davenport, la. (Davenport-Rock Island-Moline area) 
EASTERN KANSAS—Daniel F. Foley, '23, 122 Spruce St., Leavenworth 
(Leavenworth area) 

KENTUCKY—William J. Woemer, '38, 208 Mayfalr, Oxford Place, 
(Louisville area) NEW ORLEANS, La.—Jules K. de la Vergne, '38, 5811 Hurst NORTHERN LOUISIANA—James R. Nowery, "29, P.O. Box 1545, 
Shreveport 94 (Shreveport area) BALTIMORE—Lewis J. O'Shea, '31, 307 St. Dunstan's Rd., Homeland. BOSTON, Mass.—Hugh F. Blunt, '24. 216-217 Home Banking BIdg., 
106 Main St., Brockton 22, Mass. BERRIEN COUNTY (Mich.)^William H. Downey, '28, 60 N. St. Joseph Ave.. Niles (Niles-St, Joseph-Benton Harbor area) BLUE WATER DISTRICT (Jlich.)—William L. Wilson. '42. P.O. Box 
295. Port Huron (Port Huron area) CENTRAL MICHIGAN—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes. '18. 828 N. Logan St.. 
Lansing (Lansing area) DETROIT. Mich.—Joseph A. Bach. '26. 505 Park Ave., c/o Detroit Lions GRAND RAPIDS, Mich.—^Joseph F. Dceb, '31, 600 Cambridge Blvd.. S.E. HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.)—Norman C. Bartholomew. "15. 225 
Cleveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich. (Iron Ht.-Marlnette area) [RON RANGE (Mich.-Wis.)—Theodore A Nolan. '33. 302 Arch St., 
Ironwood, Mich. (Ironwood area) JACKSON, Mich.—^Lyman H. Hill. Jr.. '5205 U. S. 127. S. SAGINAW VALLEY. Mich.—Joseph C. Goddeyne. '11. 2275 Carrol Rd.. 
Bay City. Mich (Saginaw area) 

MINNESOTA—Robert M. Rodgers. '43. 949 Grand Ave., St. Paul (Twin Cities area) 
KANSAS CITY (Mo. and Kans.)—Thomas M. Reardon, '39, 1104 
W. 76th Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. ST. LOUIS, Mo.—Fred & Weber, Jr., '36, 6639 University Drive MONTANA—Bernard Gralney, '43. 801 - 12th Ave., Helena. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Michael J. Balog, '34, 316 Watson Ave., Perth Amboy (Perth Amboy area) _ ;' 
NEW JERSEY—George J. Melinkovich, '35, 27 Leo Place, Newark (Newark area) 
BUFFALO, N. Y.—Donald W. Love, '35, 6034 Main St., WiUIams­ville, N. Y. 
CAPITAL DISTRICT (N. Y.)—John P. Campbell, '26. 252 S. Main. Albany 3 (Albany area) 
CENTRAL NEW YORK—M.ark B. Mooncy. '20, 125 Butternut Drive. DeWitt (Syracuse area) 
MOHAWK VALLEY (N.Y.)—Frank Donalty, '33, 23 Beverly Pi., UtIca (Utica area) 
NEW YORK, N. Y.—Tierney A. O'Rourke, '30, 76-12 35th Ave., Jackson Hgts., N. T. 
NORTHERN NEW YORK—Judge Cornelius J. CSirey, '30, 12 Park St., Malone (Malone area) 
ROCHESTER, N. Y.—Wililam R. Bell, '25, 95 Ames St. 
TRIPLE CITIES (N.Y.)—James H. Hogan, '34, 42 Oak St, Blng­hamton, N. Y. (Binghamton-Johnson City area) 
AKRON, O.—Paul A. Bertsch, '29, 763 S. High 
CANTON, O.—^William H. Belden, '30, 305 - 22nd St., N.W. 
CENTRAL OHIO—John J. Cannon, '30, 555 E. Broad St., Columbus (Columbus area) 
CINCINNATI, O.—J. Walter Nienaber, '37, 2106 Alpine PI. 
CLEVELAND, O.—Hugh M. O'Neill, '17, 544 Terminal Tower 
DAYTON, O.—^E. William Hoyne, '42, 205 Salem Avenue 
HAMILTON, O.—Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 708 Rentschler Bldg. 
LIMA, O.—George Shanahan, 432 W. Main St. 
OHIO VALLEY—Dr. William E. Ackermann, 14 Edgewood St., Wheel­
ing, W. Va. (Bellaire-Wheeling area) SANDUSKY, O.—John J. Millott. '27, 913 Osborne St. riFFIN, O.—^Fred J. Wagner, '29, 84% S. Washington St. TOLEDO, O.—Robert F. Schramm, '39, 729 Grove PI. roUNGSTOWN, O.—Clarence T. Sheehan, '40. The VINDICATOR TULSA, Okla.—E. W. Leroux, '33, 1724 S. Madison OKLAHOMA CITY, Okla.—Haskell Askew, '31, 827 N. W. 20th St. DREGON—Robert G. Molin, '40, 316 W. Alder St., Portland EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, 3004 Turner St., 
Allentown (Allentown-Bethlehem area) ERIE, Pa.—^Jamcs B. Dwj-er, '37, 4006 State St. HARRISBUBG, Pa.—Francis C. Barbush, '37, 128 S. 3rd St. MONONGAHELA VALLEY^(Pa.)—Edward J. Dean, '28, 11 Linden 
Ave., Monesscn, Pa. (Monessen area) PHILADELPHIA, Pa.—Charles A. Conley, '35, 100 E. Turnbull Ave., Havertown, Pa. SCRANTON, Pa.—^Louls J. FInske, '19, Gravel Pond No. 2. darks Summit, Pa. WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Lawrence J. O'Toole, '36, 425 S. Aiken Ave., Pittsburgh (Pittsburgh area) WILKES-BABRE, Pa.—Gilbert V. Perry, '31, 190 Wyoming Ave., Wyoming, Pa, RHODE ISLAND and S. E. SIASSACHUSETTS—John J. McLaughlin. 
'34, Mendon Rd., Cumberland Hill, R. I. (Providence area) MEMPHIS, Tenn.—T. J. Foley, Jr., '35, 6666 S. McLean NASHVILLE, Tenn.—W. Kennedy Jones, '30, P. O. Box 773 DALLAS, Tex.—^Walter L. Fleming, "40, 4549 Belfort Place HOUSTON, Te-x.—^Robert C. Scoggins, '24, 430 Humble BIdg. SAN ANTONIO, Tex.—Leonard M. Hess, '25, 201 Stanford Dr. UTAH—Jack W. GallU-an, "37, 1017 Kearns BIdg., Salt Lake City VIRGINIA—^Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Seminary Ave., Richmond 
22 (key man) 

WESTERN WASHINGTON—Charles F. Osborn, Jr.. '38. 603 Central 
BIdg., Seattle (Seattle area) WEST VIRGINIA—Joseph P. Neenan. Ml. 4012 Venable Ave.. Charleston GREEN BAY. Wis.—John D. Clancy, '35, 525 Clay St LACROSSE, Wis.—John A. Elliott '25, 1420 King St. MILWAUKEE, Wis Thomas E. Dixon, '41, 127 N. 74th St., Milwaukee 13 WISCONSIN—South Central—John W. Roach, "25, 2115 Van HIse 
Ave., Madison (Madison area) 
< 
^ 





