The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
> 
z > 
> 

ND-SMG Eii!ia!«l h Be EMHIIII? 
NOTRE DAME ALUMMUS 
VOL. 49, NO. 1 FEBRUARY, 1971 
James D. Cooncy '59 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ALUMNI ASSOCIATION EDITOR Timothy J. Hughes '61 MANAGING EDITOR George A. Scbeuer '28 CHIEF COPY EDITOR Bill Mitchell '71 EDITORXAI. ASSISTANT 
M. Bnicc Harlan '49 CHIEF PHOTOORAPKEa 

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Donald F. O'Brien '42 HONORARY PRESIDENT Robert A. Erkins *45 PRESIDENT John T. Alossman '56 VICE-PRESIDENT, ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS 
Frank L. McGinn '52 VICE-PRESIDENT, ALUMNI AFFAIRS Robert L. McGoldrick '56 VICE-PRESIDENT, STUDENT AFFAIRS Leonard H. Tose '37 VICE-PRESIDENT, ACADEMIC AFFAIRS James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTUX DIRECTOR Michael £. Jordan '68 ASSISTANT DIRECTOR 

DIRECTORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Erkins '45, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Massman '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 Bldg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 Robert L. McGoldrick '56, 15 Drury Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 05117 Leonard H. Tose '37, 54 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 19405 


DIRECTORS TO 1973 

Daniel D. Canale '42, 1325 Commerce Title Bldg., Memphis, Tcnn. 38103 Dr. John C. Lungren '38, 4180 Chestnut Ave., Long Beach, Calif. 90807 James G. MacDcvitt '35, 43 Hampshire Rd., Great Neck, N.Y. 11023 Joseph T. O'Neill '53, 60 W. 4Ui St., St. Paul, Minn. 55102 John R. PaneUi '49, 17549 Kirkshire, Bir­mingham, Mich. 48009 

DIRECTORS TO 1974 
Joseph G. Bertrand '54, 8114 S. Luclla Ave., Chicago, 111. 60617 Paul J. Doyle '36, 5061 Cedar Creek Dr., Houston, Tex. 77027 Peter F. Fbhcrty '51, 5033 Castleman St., Pittsbmsh, Pa. 15232 William K. McGowan Jr. '57, 108 Pennsyl­vania Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46204 Charles F. Osbom '38, 7315-51st N.E., Seattle, Wash. 98115 
1971 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduc­tion In whole or in part without imtten pennission is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, March, May, August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Second-class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46356. 
FEATURES 

6 ND-SMC, Engaged to Be Engaged? 
8 The Big One 10 At the Source 


DEPARTMENTS 
3 ND News 14 Old Faces—New Places 15 Class Notes 37 Graduate Schools 40 Club News 46 On Record 48 Alumni Ask 

Photo credits: Cover, Sports Illustrated; P. 8, South Bend Tribune 

ALUMNI REACTION TO PARK-MAYHEW 
There are several things worth noting in this issue, especially the report on the future relationship between Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. 
Dubbed the Park-Mayhew Report, after its two authors Lewis B. May-hew and Rosemary Park, it is 10,000 words long and incredibly dull. We hope we have done an adequate j"ob in translating the thrust of its message. 
It should be pointed out here that coeducation as such is not the central question of the report. It is how the two institutions efficiently and effec­tively administer the fact of coeduca­tion. For Notre Dame and St. Mary's have had "coeducation" of sorts going for the last five years. It really started six years ago when a lone St. Mary's student took a course at Notre Dame. Today there are nearly 2,000 ND and SMC students involved in the coex­change program. 
The initial reaction of students to the report was that it does little to add to what is already happening on both campuses. They feel that more often than not the present situation leads to tokenism in regard to the number of women in courses at Notre Dame. 
For certain members of the faculty, a problem arises in the recommenda­tion of mergers of particular depart­ments to avoid unnecessary duplica­tion in programs. Thus the decision must be made as to which programs will be absorbed by St. Mary's and vice versa. Several faculty members and administrators were rankled by the description of ND as a "profes­sionalized university" needing the "humanizing influence" of St. Mary's, a liberal arts school. 

From the point of view of St. Mary's, it does not want to lose its identity and be swallowed up by Big Brother across the Dixie Highway. Thus it is emphasized that the report recommends absorbtion, not merger. And it would be: St. Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame 
Because of these sensitive problems, the two institutions hired outside con­sultants. Mayhew is teaching in the education department at Stanford. He has long been an educational consul­tant with various institutions on this very problem. Rosemary Park is a former president of Barnard College, When she retired, she moved to UCLA where she teaches education. 
While the students, faculty and ad-, ministration are studying the recom­mendations of Park and Mayhew, so is the Alumni Association. The As­sociation's report, along with the others, will be submitted to a joint meeting of the ND and SMC boards of trustees in mid-March. The mem­bers of the ND board of directors wilL poll the 210 alumni senators for a re­action to the report. 
Hopefully, you out there will lend your voice to the analysis. If you want to comment on Park-Mayhew,' we'll be glad to hear from you. ­
^Ih 

Wn AiienitiiHi FMt 
Notre Dame successfully fended ofE 
a bid by South Bend city officials to 
annex the University when the Com­
mon Council voted against the pro­
posal after a four-hour public hearing. 
The city's fight to annex Notre 
Dame, St. Mary's College and Holy 
Cross Junior College was led by 
Mayor Lloyd M. Allen. The move 
would have increased South Bend's 
population by 10,000 and brought an 
additional $150,000 to the city trea­
sury in the form of tax rebates from 
the State of Indiana, according to the 
proponents. 
With the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce 
CSC as the chief spokesman for ND 
and the colleges, opposition was ex­
pressed primarily on these grounds: 
(I) the tax exempt status of the edu­cational institutions would be in jeop­ardy, (2) citizens would pressure the city to charge the institutions for municipal services and (3) Notre Dame would lose its post office. 
An estimated 275 people attended the hearing, most of them against the annexation. 
Those speaking in behalf of Notre Dame included besides Father Joyce: Edmund A. Stephan, chairman of the ND board of trustees; Paul Gilbert, South Bend merchant; Frank E. Sulli­van '49, South Bend insurance execu­tive; and O. C. Carmichael, Jr., South Bend businessman and national chair­man of ND's Summa campaign. 
Father Joyce argued that the reve­nue earned by increasing the city population would not cover the added burden of providing Notre Dame with municipal services. The University presently spends $322,000 a year for police and fire protection, road main­tenance, lighting, and garbage dis­posal. 
The University vice president also noted that the threat of future tax­ation under the guise of "payment for services rendered" was indeed real. He cited the New Haven, Conn., city government proposal that Yale U. pay the city $9 million over a three-year period. Also mentioned was the at­tempt by Pittsburgh city fathers to tax the University of Pittsburgh. 
The campaign by both sides was conducted with little of the overheated emotion that was seen a few weeks earlier when a proposal for the an­nexation of another area on the edge of South Bend was argued and de­feated. However, there was some. The mayor charged ND with using a "Madison Avenue" approach when it presented a half-hour TV program explaining the University position. 
And at the Council meeting, Paul Gilbert gave a passionate plea against annexation, saying at one point, "I would rather turn on my dear mother 
The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce makes a point during the annexation hearing as members of the South Bend Common Council listen. 
than on this university that brings so much to our city."" 
And a New York Times account of the meeting concluded: "When the testimony was over, the Mayor and his advisers may have felt they had been sand-bagged by the collective weight and history of George Gipp, Knute Rockne, the Four Horsemen, the Golden Dome and Subway Alumni from all over the world. The council vote was 6-3 against annexation, but, as the sports reporters might say about a crunching Notre Dame foot­ball game, it was not as close as the score might indicate." 

New Ahiii NmhR 
Five new members joined the Notre Dame Alumni Assoc, board of di­rectors at its winter meeting, Feb. 5-6. 
Elected in a record return of more than 9000 votes from alumni across the country were Joseph G. Bertrand '54, president of the Highland Com­munity Bank and candidate for the city treasurer's post in Chicago; Paul 
J. Doyle '36, vice president of the Rede Co., Houston, Tex.; William K. McGowan Jr. '57, vice president of American Fletcher National Bank & Trust Co., Indianapolis, Ind.; and Charles F. Osbom, senior partner in a Seattle, Wash, law firm. 
The newly elected will serve three-year terms. There are 10 other board members. 
DmiiiKits 
Two Notre Dame regional develop­ment directors have been given addi­tional responsibility, according to Frank G. Kelly, ND director of de­velopment. 
Brian Regan, Area 3 director, will now cover Philadelphia and southern New Jersey as part of area responsi­bilities in the northeastern U.S. Thomas J. Sullivan, Area 5 director, will cover Indiana and Kentucky in addition to the southeastern U.S. Both directors are headquartered at Notre Dame. 
The development office has two other regional directors, James Kin­nane in Los Angeles and John Ma­checa in Chicago. 


ND law Dean Resigns 

Dean William B. Lawless has left Notre Dame to become a partner in a New York City law firm. 
Edward J. Murphy, veteran pro­fessor of law at ND, has been named acting dean by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, University president. 
Lawless, who left the New York Supreme Court 30 months ago to head the nation's oldest Catholic Law School, said he would head the 25­man litigation staff of Mudge, Rose, Guthrie and Alexander. President Richard M. Nixon and Attorney General John N. Mitchell were for­merly associated with the firm. 
Father Hesburgh praised" Lawless' record as dean. "Dean Lawless has doubled the size of the school to 424 students, strengthened its faculty, im­proved its curriculum, increased the number of applicants and quality of enrollees and helped plan an imag­inative law development program cul­minating in the University's proposed Law Center. 
"Apart from these statistics," Fr. Hesburgh continued, "the Law School under his leadership has suc­ceeded in raising the percentage of minority students to nearly nine per cent, stressed the area of public ser­vice law to its students and launched a major U.S. Justice Department-sponsored study of court delay in the nation." 
In a letter to members of ND's Law Advisory Council and to direc­tors of the University's Law Associa­tion, Lawless said he was leaving the deanship "earlier than he had orig­inally anticipated" but noted that progress toward goals he set when he arrived had been marked and that he was eager to return to the private practice of law. 
A 1944 alumnus of the ND Law 
School, Lawless received his LL.M. 
from Harvard Law School in 1950. 
A native of Buffalo, N.Y., he was 
elected to the NY Supreme Court in 
1959 after serving as corporation 
counsel and Common Council presi­
dent in Buffalo. 

Murphy joined the ND law faculty 
in 1957 and specialized in the law of 
contracts and commercial law. He is 
the co-author of "Studies in Contract 
Law," a casebook published last year and used by several of the nation's major law schools. 
A native of Springfield, 111., Mur­phy received his undergraduate and legal training at the U. of Illinois. He recently served two years as the first president of the Notre Dame Faculty Senate. 


Share SctiolarshiB Hid 
Fifty-four per cent of the undergrad­uate students at ND are sharing $5,­393,512 in financial aid, according to the University's office of financial aid and scholarships. This is a slight in­crease over the number of students who last year shared S4.7 million. 
A total of 3469 of the 6407 under­graduates are receiving financial as­sistance. Last year 3320 students re­ceived aid. Enrollment totalled 6194. 
The average aid this year is $1555 compared to $1442 last year. Tuition this year is $2100, up $200 from the 1969-70 school year. 
The financial assistance figures in­clude money distributed through Uni­versity-sponsored scholarships, state scholarships, federal assistance pro­grams administered through the Uni­versity, student loans through banks and other scholarships such as ROTC, National Merit Awards, community and private scholarship grants. En­dowed University scholarships totalled almost $450,000. 

A total of 772 students receive credit toward tuition costs by work­ing 12 hours each week in such cler­ical positions as library assistant, mi­crofilmers, and correctors. An addi­tional 443 receive aid by working in the dining halls, laundry or as re­search assistants. The college work-study program involves another 99 students who receive funds for ser­vice as lab assistants, tutors, commu­nity program aides and legal aid, both on and off campus. 

Women in the Gkirch 

Rev. John A. O'Brien, research pro­
fessor of theology at ND, maintains 
that despite renewal on many fronts, 
the Catholic Church still treats wom­
en as "God's forgotten children." 

Writing in the U.S. Catholic/Ju­
bilee magazine, Fr. O'Brien notes that women are "relegated to obscurity, denied their rightful place in the Church's worship and administration, and treated as inferior to men." 
In detailing the position of women within the Church, Fr. O'Brien ob­serves that: 
—^Despite advances in equality of treatment under civil law, women were denied a voice in the most im­portant Church decisions in the twentieth century made at the Sec­ond Vatican Council. 
—^Although women furnish more than twice as many religious voca­tions as men, they are under the juris­diction of an all-male Congregation on Religious in Rome. 
—Women are barred from partici­pating in the Church's liturgy to the extent that both men and boys are. 
—The number of women on di­ocesan and pastoral councils is "piti­fully inadequate." 
—^Women are banned from the Catholic priesthood. 
"The Church," observes Father O'Brien, "lags far behind the United Nations charter for universal human rights .. . in its discrimination against women, and the time has come for it to catch up." 

Cnemuter Installed 
A new computer valued at $1.4 mil­lion is being installed at the ND Com­puting Center, according to Brian R. Walsh, director of the center. The IBM 360/50 is being leased to in­crease ND's research and teaching capability until IBM's newest model, the 370/155, is ready for delivery next year. 
Although smaller in size than the 

center's present Univac 1107, the new 
computer offers vastly increased ca­
pability for information processing 
and storage. The center will transfer 
all major administrative records to the 
new computer. These will include 
student records, accounting, alumni 
records and even planning and devel­
opment information. 
With a new decentralized system of 

computer access, students, faculty 
and administrators no longer need to 
take their programs to the center but 
can run them immediately on con­
venient terminals in their own 
buildings. 

Eiviroiient Deirae 
ND will grant a new graduate degree 
beginning next fall—the master of 
science in environmental health engi­
neering. The degree was approved by 
the 65-member Academic Council, a 
policy-making body composed of stu­
dents, faculty and administrators. 
Students have been able to take 
courses in pollution, waste manage­
ment, ecology and environmental en­
gineering since 1905, according to 
Dr. Wayne F. Echelberger, associate 
professor of civil engineering. How­
ever, in the past they have received 
degrees from the department of civil 
engineering, a discipline which tradi­
tionally bears little relationship to 
many concerns of environmental 
health specialists. 

All That Jazz 
The Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz 
Festival will become a teenager this 
spring when it celebrates its 13th 
birthday in Stepan Center, March 5-6. 
The festival is the first ar>d oldest 
of its kind, attracting collegiate groups 
from throughout the United States. 
Eighteen groups will participate, nine 
big bands and nine combos. In ad­
dition 19 high school groups will 
compete in a separate concert. 
The group traveling the farthest is 
a combo from the University of New 
Mexico. Other combos will represent Notre Dame, U. of Pittsburgh, Mas­sachusetts Institute of Technology, Triton College, U. of Indiana, U. of Illinois, Illinois Central and Shenan­doah Conservatory. 
Big bands participating are: Tow-son (Md.) State College, MIT, Shenandoah, Philadelphia Musical Academy, Indiana State U., U. of Michigan, Ball State, East Carolina 
U. and Indiana U. of Pa. 
The high school competition will be held in Washington Hall on Satur­day, March 6. The winner will per­form Saturday night before the audience attending the collegiate competition. 
An estimated 6000 persons will at­tend the CJF, according to Ann Heinrichs, the festival chairman. 
Miss Heinrichs, a senior at St. Mary's College and a music major, said that the festival successfully moved away form the awarding of a single prize to the top group in the competition last year. Instead the judges name five or six groups for outstanding efforts. However, prizes are awarded to outstanding individual performers. The judges this year will include Dan Morgenstern, editor of Downbeat magazine; Gerald Wilson, arranger and composer; Leon Thomas, vocalist; and Charlie Haden, bassist. Willis Conover, a nationally recog­nized authority on jazz music, will be the master of ceremonies. 
The CJF staff includes 10 students plus another 100 who handle pro­duction coordination, stage manage­ment and publicity. Richard Bizot is the ND faculty advisor to CJF. 

Bankiii histiiite 
The 1971 University of Notre Dame Economics and Banking Institute is scheduled for May 23-28 in the Cen­ter for Continuing Education. 
James Saxon, former comptroller of currency, Washington, D.C., will be one of the major speakers at the conference. 

4 stmleats lie 
A memorial Mass was celebrated by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC on Jan. 27 in Sacred Heart Church for four ND students who died recently. They were David D. Beck of Dayton, Ohio; Daniel J. Dietzler of Akron, Ohio; James E. Krumm of Eaton Rapids, Mich.; and Francis E. Pulte of Needles, Calif. Beck, a sophomore, died Jan. 25 of injuries received in a fall off an automobile trunk on Notre Dame Ave. Dietzler, a junior, died of a heart ailment shortly after Christ­mas while he and his parents were visiting in Wisconsin. Krumm, a senior, died Jan. 1 of injuries in an auto accident while home for the holiday. Pulte, a sophomore, died Dec. 21 of injuries received in a foot­ball game near his home. 

Prmrai Dlsniitjiieil 
The University will discontinue its 
Department of Computer Science on 
May 31 and will drop the institute 
status of the Computing Center which 
houses ND's computer. The Aca­
demic Council noted the dwindling 
service function of the two-year-old 
department and the increased capa­
bility of the four colleges to handle 
such computer training as is neces­
sary for their students through other 
departmental offerings. 
The 37 students now majoring in 
computer science will be taken care 
of through computer-related courses 
now taught in other departments. The 
center will continue to provide ser­
vices for faculty and administration. 
A consultant's report that recom­mends St. Mar>'"s College "join the University of Notre Dame as a sep­arate and distinctive entity operating within the larger University frame­work" is now being studied and an­alyzed by faculty, students, admin­istrators, trustees and alumni from both sides of the Dixie Highway. 
The report, released in mid-Janu­ar>', will be submitted to a joint meet­ing of the executive committees of both schools" boards of trustees in mid-March. Sister M. Alma Peter CSC, acting president of SMC, and the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, ND president, both stressed that ac­tion by the trustees of both institu­tions is necessary before any recom­mendations are adopted and that there is no prior commitment on the part of either school to the report's con­clusions. A financial feasibility study is also being prepared. 
The 10,500-word report, written by Dr. Rosemary Park, professor of edu­cation at the University of California in Los Angeles, and Dr. Lewis B. Mayhew, professor of education at Stanford University, recommends that Saint Mary's adopt the official name of "Saint Mary's College in the Uni­versity of Notre Dame" and concen­trate on an educational program pri­marily for women. "Eventually," the authors note, "the two corporate en­tities of Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame might merge" by obtaining a new state char­ter and creating a common governing body. "For the immediate future, however," the report stressed, "the two institutions can function coopera­tively while still retaining separate corporate identity and the separate interests of the sponsoring communi­ties." 
Corollary recommendations of the report included the following: 
—Appointment of a coordinator to implement the increased cooperation of both institutions. 
—Creation of joint memberships on the boards of trustees of the two schools and much closer cooperation between the two governing bodies in academic and financial policy-making. 
—Designation of the president of Saint Mary's as also a vice president of Notre Dame. 
—Merger of the registrar's office, development office, publications office, admissions staffs, psychological serv­ices and counseling activities, and se­curity forces of the two institutions. 
—Formation of joint committees in such areas as student personnel and religious life. 

The report said that "as a general rule, departments from the two insti­tutions should merge" but noted that some "because of personnel or pe­culiar circumstances will not move to the unified organization immediately." The authors emphasized that "specific provisions for safeguarding rights of faculty members" should be insured during merger activities in the aca­demic area. 
Academic degrees would be award­ed by the institutions in which stu­dents matriculate. Those enrolled in Saint Mary's, for e.\ample, would re­ceive a degree in the name of "Saint Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame," signed by both presi­dents. Students would be entitled to take majors offered by either institu­tion, however. Saint Mary's women could thus pursue an architecture major in the University, while Notre Dame men could take an elementary education major in the College. 
"The union of the two colleges as envisioned in this document will be viable only if each campus can create and maintain a distinctive educational mission while at the same time con­tributing appropriately to the educa­tional mission of the other campus," the report concluded. 
Before setting out its recommenda­tions, the report reviewed national trends in higher education—particu­larly those away from single-sex schools and toward inter-institutional cooperation—as well as the history of the Notre Dame-Saint Mar>''s 127­year relationship. They praised recent efforts toward closer cooperation, in­cluding the exchange program which affects more than 2,000 students, and reported that the climate for closer ties was more favorable than ever before. 
Among other alternatives discussed 
were the possibility of both institu­
tions going co-educational or "simple 
absorption of Saint Mar>''s by Notre 
Dame." Both were seen by Park and 
Mayhcw as less desirable than their 
final recommendation. The two con­
sultants were retained by Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's last spring, and they 
visited the campuses several times 
during the last few months to inter­
view a wide range of students, faculty 
and administrators. 
The board of directors of the Notre 
Dame Alumni Association is seeking 
out reactions to the report among its 
constituency. All of the 210 mem­
bers of the Alumni Senate have been 
mailed copies of the Park-Mayhew Report. They have been asked to give their reactions to the report, as well as those of other alumni they are in contact with. 
James D. Cooney, executive di­rector of the Association, said that this feedback, and that from other sources including individual alumni who write to his office and to the ALUMNUS magazine, will be digested into a report to the trustees. 
The coexchange program between Notre Dame and St. Mary's has been operating for six years. This year 1,969 students are in the program— 1,204 ND students taking classes at St. Mar>''s and 765 St. Mary's stu­dents attendin2 class at ND. 
down. It did just the opposite. It helped perpetuate them because it brought up all the fears and took them seriously." 
Those fears center mostly, it seems, on the identity question. According to the report, St. Mary's approaches education humanistically and liberally, while Notre Dame is mostly a train­ing ground for the industrial and pro­fessional worlds. Most ND under­graduate professors would disagree. Dr. Costello, who is director of under­graduate English studies, insisted the consultants were operating on false assumptions in this regard. "Under­graduate education around here is pretty damn human," he said. 
i^i;;; 
THE DEATH OF UNI-SEX EDUCATION. by Bill Mitchell 
What can you say about a 12S-year­old tradition that died? 
You can say anything you want. What matters now, at least as regards the death of uni-sex education at ND, is what is done. 
Rosemary Park and Lewis Mayhew, the professional consultants hired to report the options everyone knew, have done their job. ND and St. Mary's, they say, have three basic choices: (1) return to the isolationist days before cooperation between the two schools began six years ago, (2) continue the limited program of co­operation currently undenvay, (3) join the two schools in one university for men and women, while preser\'ing each school's "identity." 
The only alternative being given serious consideration is the third, but the fact that merger (which is finally what will probably be involved) has been such a touchy word indicates why the consultants were needed in the first place. "There was nothing here (in the consultants' report) that we couldn't have said ourselves," ND English Professor Donald Costello said, "but it needed to be said by someone else because there is such a state of distrust (between St. Mary's and ND)." 
Dr. Costello, who is a member of the coordinating committee for the schools' co-exchange program, was among many critics who contended the report failed to alleviate that dis­trust. "We know caricatures of each other," he said of ND and SMC, "and that's what Park and Mayhew had to put up with when they met with us. But I don't think their report did anything at all to break them 
But the fear remains at St. Mary's that ND will gobble them up. In an apparent effort to insure against that happening. Park and Mayhew sug­gested the two schools be in one university, but remain "separate and distinct" entities—with St. Mary's of­fe.ing an undergraduate program "de­signed primarily for women." 
What the consultants did, in other words, was to propose St. Mary's place in the university not according to educational identity, but according to sexual identity. Which does justice neither to the kind of identity St. Mar>''s wants to preserve or to the college it would become in Notre Dame. 
A more judicious path would be for St. Mary's College to become the St. Mary's College of Liberal Arts and Sciences in the University of Notre Dame. It would replace the present College of Arts and Letters at ND (although it would of course combine faculty, students and admini­strative staff) and would be con­cerned with humanistic, non-voca­tional learning — which St. Mary's oflicials insist is the thrust of their tradition and identity. Such a col­lege would permit men and women who concentrate in the area of the arts to learn about the sciences with­out trying to compete with men or women who intend scientific vocations and are studying (in ND's science colleges). 
The "separate but equal" sex myth is at last dead in America higher edu­cation. St. Mary's and ND (if they move beyond their fears of each other) have the chance to step into reality. 

ON NEW YEAR'S DAY. 
THE FIGHTING IRISH WIN THE BI G ONE by TOM SULLIVAN 
There were little green buttons in evi­dence down Dallas way during Cotton Bowl week. They bore a simple proc­lamation, "The Irish are back!" They graced the lapels of some who be­lieved and those who hoped that vic­tory over the mighty Longhorns, which had been frustratingly elusive a year earlier, would become a reality in 1971. 
As it turned out those little green buttons were prophetic, much to the chagrin of one Darrell Royal and his compatriots Worster, Bertelsen. Dale, Phillips, Atessis, et al. But to all the Irish who were back and to those making their initial visit to Big "D," the prophecy was the denouement of a thoroughly memorable experience under the ominous eyes of Texas. 
The atmosphere prevailing in the Statler Hilton, Alumni Association headquarters, and the Fairmont Hotel, athletic and official party residence, was one of cautious optimism—in some quarters more cautious than op­timistic. The ND Club of Dallas, with one year of experience under its belt, had planned well for visiting alumni and friends of the University, in addi­tion to providing countless services to the athletic entourage. 
The super hospitality extended by John Ronan '56, Larry Bedford '57, Mike Caola '66 and numerous help­ers was far above and beyond the call of duty. It included meeting the flights of most of the individual players ar­riving from a brief Christmas respite —and there were 80 players; arrang­ing for and equipping a recreation room at the Fairmont for the children of the athletic staff and party; staffing a hospitality suite at the Statler featur­ing refreshments and football films; producing for the second successive year one of the Southwest's largest New Year's Eve parties, held in the Dallas Municipal Auditorium and at­tended by 1,000 of the faithful; host­ing a Texas-size victory party follow­ing the game in the Cowboy Club adjacent to the stadium; and honoring the team and athletic party at a ranch-style barbecue the day after the game. 
The official group of the University, headed in Fr. Hesburgh's absence by Fr. Joyce and Ed Stephan, chair­man of the Board of Trustees, was treated once again to a generous serv­ing of Cotton Bowl Athletic Associa­tion hospitality. It all began with a knock on the hotel door shortly after arrival, signaling the delivery of a Texas-shaped basket of Nieman Mar­cus' finest assorted cheeses. 
The evening of Dec. 30, the Presi­dent's Dinner honored chief adminis­trators of both participating universi­ties and hosted representatives of all member schools of the Southwest Conference, sponsor of the Cotton Bowl. Conviviality reigned at the black tie affair held in a private club some 36 stories above the shimmering skyline of Dallas. As the fashionably attired ladies chatted about sinking hemlines, the men talked of wishbones and winning streaks. 
The following morning, the last of 1970, Nieman Marcus hosted the ladies of Notre Dame at a fashion show-brunch while the men prepared to attend the noon luncheon of the Texas Sports Hall of Fame. 
New Year's Eve arrived with barely a hint of chill in the refreshing plains air and the ND entourage taxied to the Grand Ballroom of the Sheraton at the invitation of the CBAA for a formal evening of dining, dancing and welcoming in the new year. 
At 11:15 p.m. a chartered bus ar­rived to transport representatives of the ND president's party to the Mu­nicipal Auditorium to ring in the New Year with alumni and friends of the University. Upon returning to the Sheraton the champagne flowed into the wee hours of the first day of 1971. 
The Haggar family of Dallas pro­vided an encore of their superb hos­pitality of a year earlier, in the form of an exquisite brunch for the presi­dent's party. Following a delicious bufl'et and the greetings of Ed Haggar and Fr. Joyce, chartered buses with police escorts transported the party to gate 7 of the Cotton Bowl for what would turn out to be a very enjoyable afternoon. 
The athletic staff and party arrived on a chartered flight from South Bend the morning of Dec. 26. Members of the team arrived from various parts of the country throughout the same day and all were present for the initial workout, which took place on the ar­tificial turf of the Cotton Bowl under the lights following the Dallas-Detroit pro play-off game. 
The weather greeting the squad was in great contrast to the climate of a year earlier. Temperatures in the 60's and 70's were common throughout the solid week of work Ara and the coaching staff put the team through. Skull sessions in the Fairmont took up the morning hours with rigorous workouts occurring in the afternoons. Ara took great care to mask the Irish offensive and defensive strategy from a rather suspicious-looking mainten­ance crew by inserting a couple of extra backs in. formations on both sides of the line. Judging from the results of the game, it worked! Local alumni were guests at a selected prac­tice session. 
The Blue and Gold had returned to the land of Sam Houston for some­thing bordering on gridiron revenge and their collective efforts were ex­pertly channeled toward that end, some relaxation and enjoyment were allowed as well. The second evening in town the group was treated to din­ner at the swank Polynesian restaurant Ports -O - Call. The Cotton Bowl Awards Dinner featuring both teams took place in the luxurious Fairmont the evening of the 29th. The 30th it was dinner and a musical production of Tom Jones at the Windmill Thea­ter. In typical pregame fashion, the evening of the 31st the team had din­ner and a movie and retired to a sub­urban seminary to contemplate the havoc of the following afternoon. As we now know, the movie must've been a good one! 
The long-awaited rematch! ND vs Texas in the Cotton Bowl. What trans­pired on the astroturf that warm after­noon in Big "D" has been analyzed and described by the pundits of sport. Succinctly put, the Irish came up with a magnificent team effort that domi­nated the talented Longhorns for most of the afternoon and earned a decisive 24-11 victory, and eventually a No. 2 national ranking. 
Great collective effort and superb coaching severed Texas' 30-game win streak and it undoubtedly brought back into the fold most of ND's fair-weather advocates of the "can't win the big one" theory. No matter! We're all together again because, as some­body remarked in the joyous din in the Cowboy Club following the con­test, "this may have been the biggest of them all!" Very possible. 
t times, the awe I felt on com­ing to Jerusalem last July rushes back. The sensations 
are strange. I had been in Israel for a week and Jerusalem but a few hours, when I-tried to write down those feelings: 
:' / prayed twice today at the Wailing 
•Wall—felt the stones rubbed smooth by countless hands and. lips, saw the : scraps of prayer-bearing bits of paper jammed into the cracks and dddeda 'few tears to the billions shed here .. i niyrhund kept going to the death 
\\cdntps-^-so many died for these mas-isiye.-'stony remnants^ / had•• to wipe 
away the only outward sign I gave of the gladness. . . . The Arab Quarter is dirty, smelly 
. filled with children, cats and schlock shops. One old man nts on a stool; he is wearing at least five watches. The smell of hashish floats over an area filled with men busy at their water pipes. The merchants I spoke, to were always polite—they never stopped smiling—but I wonder what p behind their eyes. I wonder 
: what their real thoughts tire. \ : My . apartment in Jerusalem is 'smaiUj- smaller than the oae I-had ^ yearago on Corby. As always, tiiis :moniing's paper was full of politics 
by Rick UiMwitz '70 
—trnfiW wi-MflruTi 

P P 
and news of fighting. The nudafter­noon quiet is broken by the noise of children playing in the street. Only a few cars have gone by lately and, occasionally, a plane passes overhead. 

I arrived in Israel six weeks' after : Commencement, for a year of study at Hebrew University. After six months, I'm still getting used to sonie of the differences in life styles" here; Life in Israel, for an American, is full of changes. 
(^ hose changes begin with the 
l^ week. Sunday is the. first workr 
day in a week that'ends shortly before sundown on ^Friday.' The day begins early; most shops are open be­fore eight. Things quiet down in the heat of the afternoon, with most stores closed for several hours. Around 4:00, things perk up again and places are open until midnight. . On Shabbat, everything (outside the Arab quarter) is closed. There are no buses, movies or restaurants, downtown isdeserttd. On holidays (and I have to admit, I wasn't used to the public celebration of my own Jewish holidays), becomes even more lonely, as all the people are busy generating noise in their own homes. 

Hebrew University is large^ modern and loaded with Americans. Of a total enrollment of 15,000, roughly 1500 Americans are studyinig (as visiting, regular or graduate students): Classes opened on Nov. 8 and run through the end of June., While a trimester system is in effect, many classes are yearlong. Most classes are run on a lecture . system, without permitting 
questions in class. Final examinations are given in July. If a student does poorly, he may take a second final; this isn't mere generosity—the final is usually the only grade fw the course. 
Israeli college students are different from their American counterparts; having spent three years in the army, they are older and tend to be more serious about their studies. Also, with the requirement of two majors com­pleted in three years, they lack the freedom to "drift" as an Arts and Let­ters student has at Notre Dame; they have no time to study areas outside the majors. 
Israel packs an amazing number of climates and regions within her bor­ders. I spent my first five weeks of ulpan (language school) in the Negev, the Israeli desert. In late August, a morning's drive north brought us into the mountains and to Jerusalem, with its cooler climate. Another 45-minute 
f\* 
the ^' cftwce 

Rick Libowitz graduated from Notre Dame last June. During his years on campus he 
was a member of the GE College Quiz Bowl team, a founder of the Free University, a member of the Student-Alumni Relations Group and active in the government of Farley Hall. 
drive west is the Mediterranean and Tel Aviv, as steamy a city as there is. Everywhere, there are young forests to be seen, land reclaimed from the ero­sion of 1000 years of neglect Water is gold here; green fields owe their existence to the sprays, run daily. 
Israeli society is truly unique; spon­taneous parties are the norm and hos­pitality the byword. During my first vacation, I worked my way up north, around Haifa, then to the Golan Heights. All the people I met—^I had names of parents, brothers, etc.— were far more than kind. To sit in an Israeli home and refuse the over­whelming hospitality is the worst in­sult imaginable; accepting it all is im­possible. 
A nether war seems only a mat­gyW ter of time. The stronger 
stand taken by the U.S. lately has cheered the people. It's another difference; at Notre Dame, Vietnam and our individual and collective in­volvement were constant subjects, in classes, on the quads and at the round-tables each night at Louie's (a missed landmark, I must admit). Here, how­ever, my Israeli friends bring up the subject of Middle East warfare very rarely. Most are in accord, saying, "We don't want war, but we won't be pushed into the sea." 

Everyone here is in the army and soldiers, male and female, are seen everywhere. >\'herever they go, to movies, restaurants or on buses, they carry long rifles or Uzis (the rather sinister Israeli burp gun). At first, I was a bit uncomfortable around so many uniforms, but even this has be­come "normal." By the way, Israel has, without a doubt, some of the most beautiful soldiers ever to wear mini-skirted uniforms. 
Building goes on everywhere, but nowhere are the changes more notice­able than in the former Jordanian-held territory. The Israelis have brought electricity to the villages, as well as new jobs and schools. Rela­tions between the Arab leaders and Israeli administrators generally range from mutually respectful to personally close. So much progress has been made on a one-to-one basis, but so little with the Arab governments! 
It's strange, just how many mis­conceptions I had, before I came to Israel. Judaism here is more of a way of life than a religion (as we know religion in the States). The people are creating their own Mediterranean so­ciety. And the "outside" news I read continues to be muddled. Do you re­member those pictures of Israelis "celebrating" the cease-fire announce­ment? An enterprising Time photog­rapher posed every one of them. 
(T'he many American students gy here are spread throughout the country, in high schools and kibbutzim as well as colleges. They differ in everything from religion and religious fervency to hair length (al­though one does not determine the other). Most of the University stu­dents cling—at first, at least—to the Americans they met at their ulpan. Israeli friends are made slowly, but as confidence (and ability) in their He­brew increases, the people tend to asert their individuality and move out. Dormitory space is limited and many students live in a few districts of town. I'm in an area with many South American students. Our "lingua franca" is Hebrew and my Hebrew is still poor enough to make me more silent than I ever was in South Bend. I suppose the "mysterious East" is here, with the bazaars, veiled women and a myriad of languages on every street Yet there is much that is familiar too, and somehow, the whole 
thing is beginning to seem natural. 


Voy iiy Noipe Dine 
by Robert Erkins, President, ND Alumni Assoc. 
When you left the University of Notre Dame and became an alum­nus, you entered into a new life. You left behind the ways of a student and took on the cares of a future life. Maybe that was last year, or maybe it was 50 years ago or more. In any case, you left! Maybe never to come back. 
"I went to Notre Dame." That phrase brought you recognition. It opened doors. It gave you prestige. You were proud to be a Notre Dame man. The Notre Dame band in the Cotton Bowl parade was your band. The team was your team. You had left Notre Dame, but the spirit of the University was still with you. 
As a Notre Dame man, your fellow man expects you to set an example of leadership just as the University is expected to be a leader. Notre Dame gave you an education and a set of values for life. You and Notre Dame have interwoven lives. You expect Notre Dame to be a leader and Notre Dame expects the same of you. If 

Tin Colenin's List Ghrislnis 
by Richard W. Conklin Director, Information Services 
Tom Coleman came over to Notre Dame on the train from Elkhart one day in 1961. He rode the train be­cause he was a retired railroad man and had a free pass. When he got to South Bend, he walked to the campus from the depot. 
"I want to talk to someone about making a contribution to Notre Dame," he told a receptionist in the Notre Dame Foundation office. He ended up talking to James Frick, then director of the Foundation. Tom was a tall, gaunt, shabbily dressed man who had come to know the University by following its conquests on the grid­iron, and Frick expected the conver­sation to yield a maximum gift of $25, which, judging by Tom's modest appearance, might well be a sacrifice. 
Instead, Tom Coleman reached into his pocket and turned over $65,­000 in government bonds. Refusing you fail, you fail Notre Dame. If Notre Dame fails in its leadership, it fails you. 
Notre Dame helped you to em­bark on the path of life. You in turn must help Notre Dame to continue on its path toward perfection as the world's leading Catholic university. A leader is committed to excellence. Notre Dame is so committed—are you? Many people today are not. Think what would happen if striving for excellence by all was again viewed as being good and mediocrity bad. If being right was more important than winning. If anti-heroes were forgot­ten and heroes admired. 
Notre Dame needs your help to carry out its program of excellence. How do you help? Here are a few ways: Become an active member of your local Notre Dame Club. If you do not have one in your area, then start one. Interest some young men in attending Notre Dame. 
Take time to write your friendly criticism and constructive views on Notre Dame to one of the Alumni Board members or to university offi­cials. We all need your ideas. By your actions you are known. Why not become involved as a Christian leader in your community life, and help fulfill the Christian message to 
the offer of a ride, he walked back to the depot. The University put the money into a life income trust, even though Tom said he could live on his social security. 
For the next nine years, Frick would visit Tom's dilapidated home in a fallen-on-bad-times section of Elkhart around December 22, which was Tom's birthday. He would bring a gift, talk a while and—at Tom's in­sistence—seal the conversation with a bourbon highball served in a care­lessly washed jam jar. Frick once brought a set of Notre Dame mono­gram drink glasses, but Tom was too proud of them ever to use them. The same fate befell an ND monogram blanket, rolled up at the end of his bed. 
Tom continued to contribute vari­ous sums to the trust. Once, when Frick cautioned him about possibly depleting resources which might be a necessary hedge against an old age illness, he replied, "Don't you worry, I got enough put back to take care of Tom." 
His day-to-day life was simplicity itself. He would visit a nearby flower shop in the morning to watch them put in the day's floral displays, and which Notre Dame has always been dedicated? 
Notre Dame as a Chnstian com­munity is in constant danger of being lost. There is a very simple reason for this: There is no easy way to pro­vide for" a continuity of Christendom. Jesus told His disciples to carry on His work. He provided the way— even sent the Holy Spirit to guide them. But the desire to follow must be passed on and carried out by each individual in his own generation. This is similar to the instructions you give to your children as they go forth. You can show them the way, but they must make it themselves, guided by spirit of life you give them. 
We ask your help, through your actions and prayers, to guide the No­tre Dame community toward its con­stant goal of being the leading Chris­tian university. We want your help in building a stronger community and in bringing to Notre Dame young men who have been touched by the Son of God. It is only through the individual that the Christian com­munity can carry on. For, it is only individuals who are converted, who are holy, and who are Christian. Christianity is contagious. Are you as a Notre Dame man helping to spread it? If not, you should be! 
then he would mosey on down to the K of C for cards with his cronies. They say he seldom bought a drink, but never refused the offer of one. If he didn't show up at the flower shop, his friends there would call his home. One day his invalid wife died; there were no children. 
He stoutly resisted invitations to come to campus and turned down football tickets, preferring to watch the team on his television set, a lone luxury which kept him company most of his hours. He took a car tour of the campus once and seemed to enjoy a sense of being part of the develop­ment of the University, to which he had quietly given some $120,000. But his lungs started to fail, and last De­cember he sensed something. 
"See you next year," Frick said at the close of the pre-Christmas visit. "Want you to come to my funeral," replied Tom, three times. 
Less than a week later, he died. He had left word for someone to call his Notre Dame friends, but the message about his funeral went undelivered. So they buried Tom Coleman on New Year's Eve . . . and with him some small ironies. 
€LD 
Dr. A. H. Peter Skelland came to ND in 1962 as an associate professor of chemical engineering. He became a full professor in 1966 and remained at the University until 1969 when he moved to a similar position at the 
U. of Kentucky. Says he: "The spirit of vigor and enthusiasm which has inspired these developments at Ken­tucky (the recent spectacular growth of the Chemical Engineering Dept.) is reminiscent of that which I en­countered at Notre Dame. I will long remember my years there among a most congenial faculty and student body." 
Another former member of the Chemical Engineering DepL faculty (1964-68) is Dr. Edward D. Crandall, now a medical student at the U. of Pennsylvania. Having left ND in 1968 to study physiology at Penn imder Dr. R. E. Forster, world-re­nowned respiratory physiologist, his interest in this field led him into the study of medicine, which he expects to complete in 1972. Speculating be­yond that (and beyond internship and residency), Dr. Crandall hopes to re­turn to the academic life, perhaps helping to bridge the wide gaps be­tween medicine, physiology and en­gineering. He writes: "While these topics (his studies in physiology and medicine) seem far removed from my work in chemical engineering, the lat­ter has in fact proved very helpful to me. I like to think that I have not left one field for another, but rather 
NEW 
DLACES 
Worthington (T), Skelland (M). Crandall (B) 
have combined to some extent knowl­edge of both fields into one person." While he and his wife like the Phila­delphia area (their home is in Bala­.Cynwyd), they "miss ND dearly: foot­
etc 

ball  Saturdays,  beautiful  campus,  
great  facilities,  wonderful  people,  
"  

Prof. Harry T. Wortliii^on came to the College of Business Adminis­tration in 1953, intending to stay for two or three years but actually re­maining until 1969. He had come at the request of the late Dean James McCarthy following "retirement" after 35 years in business, the last 20 as chief executive officer and director in several well-known corporations. He and his wife, who reside in Doug­laston. Long Island, have six children (two of their four sons are ND grad­uates and their two daughters are married to ND men), 34 grandchil­dren and three great-grandchildren. When not visiting these families, Mr. and Mrs. Worthington enjoy other travel, last year to Latin America, the Virgin Islands, California, Florida ("we hope to celebrate our 50th wed­ding anniversary in March in an in­teresting spot"), and he takes an oc­casional consulting assignment. He is grateful for the good health thai "helps make life at 79 thoroughly enjoyable—the days go by too fast for me to accomplish much that I wish to do." 
Rev. Thomas Baker CSC taught theology and was chaplain for the freshmen during 1953-54. He re­turned to the campus 1962-64 as as­sistant University chaplain and teacher of theology. He is now director of the campus ministry at the U. of Portland. Rev. Paul Fryberger CSC, who taught economics 1946-59 and prefected and rectored in several halls, notably Zahm, subsequently taught at the U. of Portland and is now chaplain at Rancho San An­tonio, a Holy Cross Brothers' school for boys in Chatsworth, Cal. Rev. William Monison CSC taught, pre­fected, and worked in the admissions office in the '50s and early '60s. He is now stationed at the CSC-operated Notre Dame High School for Boys, Niles, III. 
Rev. John Wilson CSC Box D Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 '15 HAPPY HOLmAYS 

Now that the holidays have come and gone I find that I have some news to report from and about former classmates and other ND alumni. From J. STOCKDALE KOBE CL'14 comes this nice greeting: 
Die besten Wunsche fur ein jrohes 
fVeihnachtsfest und ein ghickliches iieues Jahr. "Best wishes for a joyful Christmas and a happy New Year." He resides at 6900 Heidelberg, Neuenheimer Landstrasse 52, Germany. JOSEPH J. HEALY '15 sent greetings and this note: "I was unable to get back to ND last June. I was just recovering from surgery and the doctor said 'nix.' I hope this coming June 
1 may be able to make it." He also reports that after Jan. 15, his new address 
will be 2845 Santa Paula Ct., Sacramento, Calif. 95821. Prayerful good wishes 
for a complete recovery. 
This greeting from ARTHUR R. CAR­MODY SME'15 and his good wife, Caroline: "Bless this home. Dear Lord above, with happiness and with Thy Love. Grant it peace and sweet accord—make this home Thy home, dear Lord." Caroline adds this note: "Art seems much better and often tires of his quiet life—misses not having an office. We have nineteen grandchildren who are very wonderful and give us much pleasure." L.D. KEESLAR '15 sent greetings and expressed regret that he was "unable to enjoy all the joyable happenings at the reunion of the 1915 class at ND. Hope I can make it next year." And here is some pleasant news from JOHN H. AHERN Ph.G.'09 who lives in Salem, So. Dak. 57058. His son, Russell, was named Individual Athlete of the Year by the So. Dakota sports writers for his golf accomplishments. I had several brief visits with John and Mrs. Ahem this fall while on a sad mission to So. Dakota. John is an enthusiast when it comes to sports— especially football at ND. Keep pulling for our Alma Mater, John. 
RAYMOND J. KELLY '15 reports that he recently celebrated his 76th birthday. The festivities for the occasion were arranged by his sons, JEROME W. KELLY 
•53
 and RAYMOND J. KELLY Jr. '41. Invited were many old friends of the Judge. His son R.F.K. III '63 and family were unable to attend because "they were kept at home by RJ.K. IV now to about 6 months." RJ.K. Sr. also reported that, "we have sold our house on Fairfield and are moving soon to our new home out of the Smoke Zone into the Ozone." His new address is 486 Weybridge Drive, Bloomfield HUls, Mich. 48013. Holiday greetings from our good friend DANIEL 

E.
 HILGARTNER Jr. B'17 with a welcome 


comment about the column in the ALUMNUS. Thanks to him and many others who contribute news items. It is always a joy to receive news from ALVIN H. BERGER Ph.B.'lS. The H stands for "Heine" as he is called by his many classmates and friends. Heine and his good wife, Alice, are spending the winter at their home in Florida, where they have many friends. They return each year to Eustis, Fla., where their address is P.O. Box 996—Zip 32726. Heine says he has glaucoma and "can't see worth a dam comes dark but I have my seeing dog AUce to lead me around." A welcome letter reached us and brought us warm greeUngs from JOHN O. FOOTE Ph.G.'13. John says "the past year has been good to us and we still have our good health and are able to navigate on our own power." John and 1 are native South Dakotans and still have many mutual friends out there. "We are still spending our summers at Lakeside up in the 
White Mountains and think that it is about 
perfect for summer living." 
It is always a pleasant surprise to get mail and find in it a letter from the FRAWLEYs of So. Dakota. HENRY J. Sr. Ph.B.'M, HENRY J. Jr. '60 and Anne, the wife and mother of the mentioned members of the Frawley household, respec­tively. At times 1 must look to her to communicate the news from and about the Frawley family. It goes without saying that the menfolk could not operate the 5,000-acre ranch without her. 
A call from GEORGE B. WAAGE '18 brought the following news: He and some ND friends got together to watch the ND-Texas game on TV New Year's Day. Those good friends were MAXIMILIAN 
G. KASUS LLB'18 and LAMBERT G. SENG '18. Needless to say, it was heart­warming to watch ND trounce the unbeaten national champions from the 
U. of Texas. They had lots of company— millions, perhaps millions more than ever before watched a college football game. 
On occasion George Waage and JOHN 
J. VOELKERS '18 travelled to Racine, Wis., for a visit with GROVER F. MILLER Ph.B.'16. They were fortunate to find him at home in Racine where he usually spends a little time between his sojourns to Wisconsin in the summer and to Florida in the winter. There is always much merriment and good cheer when ND men gather in numbers. 
Albert A. Kuhle 
117 Sunset Ave. 
La Grange, 111. 60525 
'16 OLD ND TIMES 
Looking over my albums of old ND times (as photo editor, I took thousands of pictures! I note the boys' spring swims in the lakes. Room pictures include EICHENLAUB, KNUTE ROCKNE, GUS DORAIS, RUPE MILLS, JOE BURNS, etc., etc. All famous in 1910-1916. The marble champion shooting in a ring surrounded by a crowd for the world's championship. His trial by the law students in Corby basement. The Hill Street car derailed and burned one night. A great event with a happy ending. (I could write of this event in detail and a picture if urged.) I figure there are about 500 living men who graduated from ND before 1921. We should get 200 of these 
men back for the reunion June 10-13 
(students will have left the halls by then). 
Plan NOW. Write it on your calendar. Drop us a card now saying you are coming Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, June 10-13. Details later. 
Grover F. Miller ' 16 
1208 S. Main St Racine, Wis. 53403 

'17 MEMORIAL PROPOSED 
Our neighbor, GEORGE WAAGE, the conductor of the 1918 class news column, called on us recently with a bundle of fine colored photos of his classmates taken at the reunion. George is a first-class shutterbug and said it is his hobby. We have also heard him say in past years that he is tired of hearing how he lost a shoe after two laps of a mile run in a dual track meet but finished with his bare foot cut to pieces on the cinder track in the old fieldhouse. FATHER DOREMUS could tell you the year, the name of the opposing team and how George finished in the race, if you would like to know. 
A memorial has been proposed for that fine Kentucky gentleman, the Rev. GEORGE MacNAMARA, who succeeded FATHER FARLEY as rector of Walsh Hall when the King tired of trying to make ND men out of prep school kids, and then two years later Father Mac lost his job and was shipped out to New Orleans, because he was TOO popular with the students. We still remember the early spring afternoon in 1917, when three seniors were drinking bock beer at the Oliver Hotel bar, and Father Mac came in a side door unnoticed. All he did was to thumb us out and say, "Out. Back to the-campus at once." We all lived in fear for a week for a call from FATHER CAVANAUGH but he evidently realized it meant our degrees and apparently never tumed us in. That's the kind of a ND man he was. What do you suggest? 
One balmy spring morning, maybe the same one, in a prep Latin class, BULL McMANUS noticed that BUGGS O'DON­NELL was sound asleep and shouted out for him to translate a certain passage. LITTLE DUTCH BERGMAN, who sat right behind Buggs, leaned forward slightly and whispered, "Caesar put the horse in the barn," which Buggs promptly repeated aloud with which Father Mc-Manus threw his book at him and shouted, "Get out of here and don't come back." Next semester Buggs was a member of Prof. Pete's German class. 
The BERNARD VOLLs were back from a month in Europe in time to entertain a box full of friends at the Go Go Tech game. You name it; they saw it Which reminds us of the story they used to tell about Errol Flynn, the movie star, who had been around the world a dozen times, when they told him he had only a month to live. "That's alright," he said. "I've seen everything twice anyway." 
Between 1910 and 1920 many students worked as waiters, bell hops and what have you at the Cedar Point summer resort hotel on Lake Erie, near Sandusky, including ROCK and GUS DORAIS, who perfected their forward pass combination on the beach during their time off. Major So & So, one of the owners, would appear at 10 a.m. every morning at his favorite table on the veranda and state that he wanted a dry martini and be sure to tell the bartender it was for him. Tlie student waiter would bow low, murmur "yes, sir" and deliver the order and message to the barman, who was usually an ND athlete. The bartender would stir the drink with his finger and the Major would give the waiter a dollar and tell him it was the best he ever tasted. BOB SINGLER, please note and tell us more about those Cedar Point days. 
We recently invited the wives of the '17ers to tell us about any amusing incident or accident that happened on their honeymoon, to stimulate interest in the column but there has been no response. We cannot believe that all of you gals live under the thumb so it must have been the subject. So, let us try the ever-popular cute sayings of grandchildren. Here is a good example. The BILL GRADYs of Dallas were here with their four-year-old grandson, Michael O'Brien. On the wall of our den is a map of Ireland by counties in colors printed on a large Irish linen towel. He pointed to it and asked Mike, "What is that?" Now this young brain did not say, "It's a map" or "I don't know," but declared positively, "Notre Dame!" perhaps because most of it is colored in green, which simply proves that this little man is being trained properly by his parents, the DANIEL O'BRIENs '58. 
Personal to LITTLE DUTCH: Were we right about the story we told about you and BUGGS O'DONNELL in the prep Latin class? Who put the boss in the barn? Was it really Caesar or the Growler? 
Anothel personal to FRANK KIRK­LAND and JIMMY PHELAN. What do you do on the west coast for fun? Have you time to tell the '17ers about it? 
PAUL FENLON '19, retired English professor, who taught for 42 years, is the longest resident—not the oldest—^the longest resident of Snoring Hall, with a first-floor room, since 1917. He is doing research work for GEORGE SCHUSTER '15, assistant to FATHER HESBURGH, and would like to hear from any classmates or friends who still know how to write. By some fancy conniving, your secretary was the first sophomore in Sorin, with DICK DALEY and RIG SACKLEY as his roommates in 201, in his junior and senior years. This is some kind of a record for what we used to call "the good old days." 
HUGHIE O'NEILL told us in a holiday call from Cleveland that he and Corinne are both well and by this time they are probably at their winter home in Pompano Beach, Fla., where he frequently sees CHARLEY BACHMAN, who also lives there. Were the Bill Gradys the only 'I7ers at the Cotton Bowl? Stand up and be counted if you saw the Irish Armenians overcome and then overwhelm the Texas Longhoms. You should be proud to have been an eyewitness to our greatest football victory, except perhaps the 1935 Ohio State game. Dig that bit of alliteration. 
Dan E. Hilgartner, Jr. 
1701 Turtle Creek Dr., North 
South Bend, Ind. 46637 


'18 COMMTTTEES 
Pleased to report that the 50-year-club 

commitments equal the average gifts to 
NOTRE DAME'S Greatest Challenge— SUMMA. Trust that you are planning to return to ND this June and attend 50-year-club dinner and once again meet with old classmates. Join in having the GOLDEN JUBILEE CLASS 1920 become members of the 50-year Club. JOSEPH E. 
POULIN '04 was the oldest member present last year. Great if Loretta and WILLIAM G. FERSTEL B.S.Com. '00, would attend. STEPHEN H. HERR C.E. '10, writes ".God willing" will be back. 

Pleased to hear from Rt. Rev. Msgr. WENZEL M. SOBOLEWSKI Litt.B.'ll. Retired and in good' health. We all would like to see him at the reunion. Monogram 
track star FRANK M. KIRKLAND 

LL.B. '17 writes, "Some time back drove through Port Townsend where I had short visit with MORRIE STARRETT '18. He is just a little overweight but looks like he could run a good high-hurdle race. I visit with JOHNNIE REYNOLDS, A.B.'17, the ole two-miler Fr. SIMONS who lives at Our l.ady of Guadalupe Abbey." 
GEORGE D. HALLER, Ph.BJ.'19, writes, "I have roster of 50-year club and am pleased to note some old friends survive such as DANNY HILGARTNER, HARRY KELLY (soon retiring as Michigan Supreme Court Justice) and LEO VOGEL (with me in ND prep and at Ft. Zachary Taylor W.W. I) saw him at my 50th reunion, all '17. Also LOUIS 
HELLERT (with me in ND prep), JOHN LEMMER (class president was co-faculty member with me U. of Portland 1920) '18. 
CLARENCE BADER (with me ND prep), PAUL FENLON (I see him every fall when back for games), EDWIN HUNTER (my rival when I was elected class president), TED RADEMAKER (saw him 45th and 50th reunions), all of '19. Msgr. TOM TOBIN '20 (he was my company sergeant in SATC W.W. I) and fellow member U. of Portland, 1920. Visit with Fr. Con Hagerty in November. My dear friend since Sept., 1911—was godfather for my daughter (graduate St. Mary's and recently married to ND grad). I have retired as full professor Detroit College of Law after 23 years' service.there; but still teach part time." 
He must have known about an upset when WILLARD V. WALLAM '15 ordered two tickets to the Cotton Bowl. What a game! BERT SENG '18 had open house in his "pad." Went with JOHN J. VOELKERS '18. L. D. KEESLAR Ch.E.'15, writes, "Please give my regards to my friends and buddies, especially AL KUHLE and others. JOS. A. TANSEY '15, states, "I live alone but have a daughter living next door. See 'JAKE' KLINE at Mass at SL Joseph with his wife almost every a.m. Have fond memories of JOE FLYNN, 'MARTY' HANAHAN, 'ZIPPER' LATHROPE and 'DANNY' HILGARTNER, i.e., saw Danny a couple of times—^looks great. What's this about 'Spit Hall and handball sessions? JAMES 
G. WALLACE PhB '18 has a son who is a brother and daughter, a nun. JOSEPH 
M. WALSH EE '14—^health is not up to effort required to return. I love to recall the pleasure of my attendance to the 40th, 45th GOLDEN JUBILEE reunions of my class." 

Those were unforgettable days. Let's hope Joe will return this June. THOMAS P. SCANLAN '17 states "outside of JOHN MILLER, LEO VOGEL and DAN HIL­GARTNER, I have been out of touch with practically everyone else in the class of '17. Hope Scanlan can make it this year." CLARENCE W. BADER '19 SCOM. should be back from his annual winter visit in Tucson and join the Old Timers. Along with that stock market 'big butter and egg man,' JOSEPH A. TANSEY '15, GROVER 
F. MILLER LLB. '16 writes, "this reunion business is getting pretty Hate! for lots of men—but we as a group can have one last fling at the 'good old days.' A combined effort will give us a larger group." So BERT SENG and I drove to Racine, Wis., and met Grover and his lovely wife. Had lunch on Grover, and we departed trusting that you all will make a special effort to return to ND this June. The RED CARPET will be out for you and we believe that you will return home with fond memories like WALSH EE. '14 wrote, "Those reunions are unforgettable days." 
This Reunion should be a great one. Reunion dates are June 11-12-13. Fifty-year men are encouraged to invite wives. Fifty-year diplomas will be presented all members who attend. Suggest that you write Alumni Association Executive Secretary JAMES D. COONEY '59 that you plan to attend. IT WILL BE A GREAT RE­UNION IF YOU ARE THERE. May you have a year of good health and live to be 100. 
Geo. B. Waage 
3305 Wrightwood Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60647 

'19 SMC-ND WEDDING 
GEORGE D. HALLER, president of the Class of '19, writes that his daughter, Penelope, an SMC graduate, was married recently to ALFRED L. MORIN '68, in Coral Gables, Fla. The groom's father, a Boston lawyer, also attended ND. Haller is a professor at Detroit College of Law and formerly was city attorney of Livonia, Mich., where he makes his home. George added that Fr. CORNELIUS J. HAGERTY '06 wrote that he was pleased to hear that his goddaughter was married to a graduate of ND. 
Theodore C. Rademaker 
154 W. Sixth St. 
Peru, Ind. 46970 

'20 KEEPING IN SHAPE 
Our friend DANIEL C. ROBERTS from the old Glee Club days writes from Green-bank, Wash., saying that MORRIS STARRETT called from across Puget Sound to extend season's greetings. Starrett does more politicking on his island and walks five miles a day to keep in shape. Rockne kept him in shape for running hurdles. He was very good at it. We missed him last June. 
ERNEST LENEHAN of Seattle was at Notre Dame during our time. A letter from WALTER O'KEEFE to Dan reported that he fell and broke his left leg but he reports he has so much to be thankful for that it cancels out his inconvenience. 
HARRY NESTER reports that upon his arrival at home after the reunion he recovered from his setback and has been in fine shape since and is counting on return­ing for a reunion next June. 
SHERWOOD DIXON has added 200 to his past load of bankruptcy cases to keep him very busy. At 17 degrees below zero at Dixon, 111., he keeps in his home these days but plans on spending some time at Tucson, Ariz., soon. He enjoyed himself in our comer room at the reunion and he would like many of us to join him for next June's reunion. 
News from PAUL CONAGHAN is always welcome. He reports that business in Chicago is booming with many newly constructed buildings. Paul's annual summer vacation in England will include the American Bar Association this summer. For now he is extremely busy in his law office. As a matter of fact, he has been a busy man all his life. 
James H. Ryan 2470 E. Ave. Rochester, N.Y. 14610 ' 

'21 REUNION COMING TJP 
A note from CHARLIE KING saying he plans to attend the 50th Class reunion and hopes plans to include the wives ma­terialize. BILL ALLEN has no present plans which would keep him from the 50th reum'on. From JAKE KLINE—look­ing forward to seeing all at the 50th. Will be trying to push the 38th baseball team over the .500 mark. Youngest son, ND '69, in Viet Nam—has 12 grandchildren ranging from 1 year to graduate from college. 
A letter from CHARLES F. DAVIS: You have asked some questions which pos­sibly I did not answer in my letter of a few days ago. (1) Grandchildren? . . . We report 13 living (having lost 3). Our Jane has 8 (5 boys and 3 girls). The eldest, Peter Van Opdorp is a freshman at R.P.I, taking pre med and playing intermural hockey. Our Miriam (Jr.) has 5 (3 boys and 2 girls). The eldest. Hank Kashiwa Jr., is at the University of Colorado and a member of the U.S. ski team. (2) Great-grandchildren . . . one only, Corey Kashiwa, who is in residence at Worcester, Mass., with his parents. His father is at Worcester Tech studying engineering and playing center on the hockey team. I don't know how many great-grandchildren we have in our class of '21 . . . but I would assume that Corey would be one of the first. Your suggestion about having a piano at the reunion would be a good one . . . only for one thing. I can't play any tune that isn't at least 30 or 40 years old. Without a doubt .. . it will be a real big thrill to be there and see all the "elder citizens" of the Class of 1921. 
From RAY SCHUBMEHL—He will be attending the 50th. Son, Bill, is a Holy Cross brother teaching at St. Edward's in Cleveland. Daughter has 4 children and resides in Grand Rapids with husband, Ed Prein, who is a ND alumnus. Will not forget the piano for Charley Davis. 
From GEORGE B. WAAGE, secretary to the 50-Year Club. Lunched with James 
D. Cooney, executive secretary to Alumni Association and JAKE KLINE to discuss plans tor the Class of '21 reunion. 
Informed, by letter, Ray Schubmehl to spread the information to the class urging them to Notre Dame for their Golden Jubilee Year—1921-1971. 
Letter from Dr. L. VINCENT GORRILLA saying that this is his 43rd year in the practice of Ophthalmology in Huntington Beach, California, and intends to practice as long as possible. Previously had been very active in the ND Club (formed a club in 1944 in California and served in practically every capacity). Has 2 married daughters with 7 grandchildren. He is an avid deep sea fisherman—has home in Acapulco, Mexico, and makes many visits there. The 50th Reunion sounds intriguing to him and if the time and situation is propitious, may attend. 
From JOE MAAG—recovering from 6th heart attack. Retired for years. Nothing but an order from the doctor will keep him away from the 50th reunion. One married daughter and 2 grandchildren, all are writers. Grandson, a senior at Florida State majoring in journalism. Grand­daughter is assistant editor of Cosmopolitan Magazine. She and talented husband wrote a movie script which was accepted by Warner Bros. 
From AL ABRAMS—Al and his wife are looking forward to 50th reunion. Retired, making Miami Beach his home. Has 2 married sons and 6 grandchildren. 
W^ 

Bernard, a West Point graduate, class of 
1947, is a decorated Korean vet. Edward, ND graduate of 1950 class. 
From JIM HUXFORD—Will see us at Class Reunion. Keeps in touch with Charley Davis, who is semi-retired with an office in Oswego, N.Y. See Kelly often in summer—his daughter has summer home near by. Has 8 grandchildren. 
Received a note from Judge NORMAN 
C. BARRY—He and his wife celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary on Jan. 31, 1971, with Mass at daughter Margaret Mary's home. He has five grandchildren— Norman Barry HI is a junior at Notre Dame and has 1 great-grandchild. He attended all the Notre Dame games in 1970. 
Schubmehl wrote that AL SCHMITT of Decatur, Ind., suffered a stroke in 1962 and has not worked since then. Al sends greetings to all his friends but is not able to write. 1 also had a letter from MARK ZIMMERER that he has been retired for the past 10 years but is as busy now as he was when he was working. He had two daughters married and has his first grandchild, a boy. 
Received word of the death of DANIEL 
J. CARR at his old home in Greensburg, Pa., on Oct. 18. After leaving ND he went on with his education and after receiving his doctorate spent most of his life as a teacher. Some of you will remember he made our 35th reunion. 
WILLIAM J. SHERRY writes: "I am sorry to have to tell you that one of our classmates, BERNARD R. CARNEY, died Nov. 12 in Tulsa, Okla., after a year and a half battle with leukemia. . . . The time of his death was just 30 nunutes after the birth of a child to the wife of his son, RICHARD '58, in Bartlesville. Barney never changed over the years. He always stayed the self-effacing brilliant fellow that we knew at ND. After his retirement six years ago, he was In great demand as a consultant as he was considered an out­standing authority in the liquidized gas field. Our son, BILL '59, is back in Tulsa after over two years in the Navy— 
most of it off the coast of Vietnam. DICK '69, our other son, is in the Army at Fort Riley, Kan. His first child, a son, bom on Nov. 7 and named Daniel 
(what a great name!). He is our 14th of the second crop. With our eight children, these grandchildren and our son<;-in-law, we now have 29 on the birthday list and with the 30th due in March. So, T 
have found out what the authorities on population mean when they talk about an 'explosion.' Dan, I will look forward 
to seeing you at our 50th Reunion in June 
where I know we both will be on our 
usually good and exemplary behavior." 
JAMES H. HUXFORD, 173 E Genesee, Skaneateles, N.Y. 13152, said he would attend and hoped that Kelley would gas up the Lincoln and give him a ride. 
Also heard from the following who will attend the 50th reunion: JOSEPH BRANDY, SR., JOHN E. KENNEY, JAKE KLINE, JAY S. ROSE, WILLIAM 
J. SHERRY, MARK ZIMMERER, A. T. BRAY, J. M. MAAG, WALTER A. RICE, JOSEPH L. TILLMAN and HAROLD 
S. FOLEY. Received a letter from WALTER A. RICE—His wife died April 7, 1969. Has been doing very little law business as he spent most of 1970 going to an eye doctor. He had two cataracts removed. He 
hopes to be able to go to the class reunion, God willing. 
A. E. SHERIDAN wrote that he was honored by the Iowa State Bar Association for his 50 years in the practice of law. He is still active in the practice of law which takes him into the courtroom daily. He is proud to be able to do this work. He finnly hopes to attend the 50th anni­versary and is going to try to arrange things accordingly. He mentioned the fond memories he has of Jake Kline, especially of the baseball games that Jake and some more of the ND boys used to play in the Iowa area. 
Dan W. Duffy 
1030 National City, R 6th Bldg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

'22 MANY THANKS 
Our grateful thanks to all in the '22 family who sent greetings and good wishes to us at Christmas time and many very thought­fully included newsy briefs about sons and daughters and grandchildren, which should greatly interest our readers in the coming issues of the ALUMNUS. It should be realized, of course, that we are quite highly restricted these days on use or misuse of space. Mrs. Mary Frances Blasius, beloved wife of our dear classmate, FRANCIS C. BLASIUS of 516 Daytona Parkway, Dayton, Ohio 45406 died on November 17. This sad news came to us in a letter from W. EDMUND SHEA "23— a Daytonian close friend of the Blasius family, who attended the funeral services, and who did much to sustain Frank in his time of grief and need. We must never forget that we of '22 owe much to Frank Blasius—our very first class secretary, who served with competence, honor and distinction over a five-year period— building a strong foundation and showing the way for others who would follow. Please do remember Mary Frances and Frank with Masses and prayers. Mrs. Gertrude CARROLL, widow of our beloved ALBERT of happy memory, now resides at 5802 Dafred Drive, Rockford, 111. 61107. She is teaching some courses at Rockford College. On occasion, she sees TOM and Bess McCABE. 
Thanks to you C. Y. KELLETT of Milford, Mass., for your sympathy note in the tragic death of TOM "SARGE" OWENS, also for saying our '22 column in the ALUMNUS is your lifeUne with the past. Thanks to: OLLIE SCHELL of Tyrone, Pa., seconding some of our thoughts and obser\'ations of present-day ND happenings. We indicated the ND students of today do not know the happiness they are missing. We enjoyed it because we were content to allow the professors to do the instructing—many were brilliant men. Every year after the Christmas holiday season you will find quite a move­ment of the '22 family into Florida in search of warmer weather. This year is no exception. We learn that the CHARLES 
A. CROWLEYs of Weston, Mass., are established at 130 South Lakeside Drive (apt I), Lake Worth, Fla. Soon to follow are the JAMES VINCENT JONESes of Rochester, N.Y., and others. The HEARTLEY W. ANDERSONS are now permanent residents of 1401 South Flagler Drive, West Palm Beach, Fla. They spent the Christmas holidays in Crowley, La. Their son. Bill, is manager of the I.B.M. office in Boston. PAUL McDERMOTT of Palm Beach, Fla., is another permanent resident. FRANK (RANGY) MILES and wife, Camilla, of South Bend took a rail tour through the southwest to attend the Southern Cal game. 
Gerald "Kid" Ashe 
175 Landing Road, North Rochester, N.Y. 14625 

'23 mCH NOON AT DALLAS 
DRAMA DEPARTMENT . . . Capsule review of High Noon at Dallas or Whatever Happened to the Wishbone T? Produced by The Irish Student Players. Directed (and how) by Ara Parseghian. Little Joe (Gary Theismann) challenges No. 1 Grid Slinger. Good Guy wins, flies off into Hawaiian skies with beautiful bride on honeymoon No. 2, first in war, first in love, first in the hearts of his countrymen. Cotton Bowl swarms with Irish chorus singing: "They said Woo. We said Wow." Fade out on lonely character shouting: "But I'm No. 1." 
HOLIDAY MALE (correct) . . . HARRY FLANNERY entered hospital for one of those "minor" operations. Medicos found a few hitch-hikers, banished them and Flan emerged triumphant, as always. . . . VINCE ENGELS, poor chap, also has troubles: His gardening interferes with his golf and fishing. . . . HY HUNT fit again after two major operations at Mayo Clinic. Planning '73 reunion plus his Dorothy. An income tax supervisor for 38 years, Hy advises: "If you sold anything last year better have form filled out by 12 Apostles, St. Jude and board of directors of CPA Society." He frequently sees the two '23 KENNEDYs. Requests that ED KREIMER, assembling new class list, "come up with something on former Badimtes MOTT and MOSIER." GEORGE PATTERSON wants to know if anybody else is represented by a third generation at ND. Pat's progeny is frosh at fancy Flanner Hall. Cards (and alls-well) from Fathers JOHN and FRANK CAVANAUGH, JOHNNY STEPHAN, Prez RED SHEA, JOE (Whiriaway) DONALDSON (the latter two plugging Dayton and Louisville candidates for Alumni Board. . . . WALT RAUBER sees DICK CORDRAY at Sunday Mass in Swarthmore, Pa. Walt invites class tourists to drop in at Buccaneer Apartments, Deerfield Beach, Fla., until April . . . (and I might just do that). . . . Changes of 
address from Alumni Ofiice for GEORGE GRADY and Dr. JOHN F. KELLEY. 

CLASS BUSINESS . . . WALT RAUBER's note included donation to Class Fund so tempting that I hustled it off pronto to JUDGE JOE NYIKOS. Our treasurer responded with report showing that 13 dropped S220 in till last year. Expenses were S70.50 so we show a profit. Also a comfortable surplus. But then we are an anachronistic group still operating under old-fashioned economic precepts of Fr. BOLGER and Fr. CON HAGERTYs logic. 
CLASS ESTATE .. . At Georgia Tech weekend I found three hefty cartons dropped off by ED KREIMER who had been there the week before. (Pitt). They include: a) Register of living class­mates; b) Register of departed classmates; 

c)
 Domes of 1920, 1921, 1922 and 1924; 


d)
 Louie Bruggner's correspondence file for his long tenure; e) Picture albums of certain reunions; f) Student directories of our day and certain other material found in Louie's effects. . . . They are as yet unopened in my basement, but now you know what and where they are. .. . I can supply that missing '23 Dome. Those of you who have Class memorabilia might give thought to adding to Louie's conscientious (his proper adjective) cache. 


JACK NORTON'S mother passed away in December. She was 93 and Jack was luckier than almost all of us, I suppose, in having his best friend around so long. Are there any more? If so, let me know and we will have a new category of Class Mother, with (my Mary's suggestion) flowers for each birthday. ED KREIMER has good news about Virginia Bruggner: "She has fairly good vision since the second cataract was removed last summer. The Lord was with her." BILL VOSS's Maxine sends thanks "for all of your kind expressions of sympathy at a time when it was deeply appreciated." 

And from DICK NASH's Bess: "When I read in the ALUMNUS your plans for the Fiftieth Anniversary I could not help but think bow interested Dick would have been. He missed only three reunions after graduation and I believe that he, RED SHEA and JACK NORTON established a record. At the Army game last fall I wondered if anybody else in the crowd had seen the 1924 Army game. Dick and I were on our honeymoon. I shed a few tears when the band played Notre Dame Our Mother, which was Dick's favorite. But there are also so many happy memories especially of ND. Good luck with your plans and I pray that Cod will spare all that are left of the class to enjoy a wonderful time. ED GOULD's wife, Marie, joins me in this." 
GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY . . . And we hope, Bess, that you, Marie, Maxine, Virginia and all the other wives who have shared our lives will join us there. DANNY CULHANE and his Marguerite, back from Ireland, wants to know what he can do, says he has already started writing to classmates. That's about it for now, Danny and everybody. We have made a good start. At a joint meeting of several advisory councils, JUDGE ROGER KILEY and I invited DR. GEORGE SHUSTER to be our speaker. George, who taught most of us (and later a large part of the world) chuckled and agreed, subject to the usual qualification. 
Francis Wallace 4615 Guernsey St. Bellaire, Ohio 43906 


'24 HOLIDAY MAIL 
An abundance of correspondence was a very real Christmas present for your secretary. With FRANK WALLACE '23 on one side and JACK HURLEY '25 on the other, you fellows of '24 will have to give me all the help you can. 
HAROLD WELCH writes, "After retiring in '61, we left New York and now spend five months in Tucson (2301 E. 2nd St. 85719) and the balance of the year in my home town. Fort Dodge, la." He and his wife travel this country extensively covering the back roads of 48 continental states. You all realize he is the '24 class agent for financial support for ND. If you have something in mind like a little bribe to St. Peter, get in touch with Harold. TIM MURPHY is another traveler. He is starting around the world in Februarj'. He says there aren't any classmates around Hartford, Conn. He feels isolated. A six-cent stamp can alter that JIM HURLEY (box 576, LaSaUe, III. 61301) came up with a veo' warming note. He is pumping for more 'mates to gather every year at the campus reum'ons. RAY McGEE, in his Jolly Friar Christmas card from Box 9401 Midtown Plaza, Rochester, N.Y. 14604, stressed the same idea, so if you want to meet Ray and Jim next June better drop them a line now. CLIFF (and Estelle) McINTOSH noted on their inspiring Christmas card that they were putting Portland, Ore. on their 1971 travel plans. This is publicly acknowledged so they will feel compelled to comply. He mentions we are in the last quarter of the game (of fife). I have a distinct impression that our football teams won a lot of games that seemed lost at half-time. I think we might have learned an everlasting lesson from those teams and that extra-curricular activity . . . thanks. Cliff and Estelle; we look forward to your visit. 
MATT ROTHERT sent the most com­plete letter with review of family and personal accomplishments of note. Matt is the person who got "in God we trust" on our coins and silver certificates. He was a personal friend of Secretary Weeks, but had to get President Eisenhower to sign a bill. Matt was president of the Numismatic National Association at the time. Sorry I haven't the space to tell you all about his family and their accomplish­ments as well as Matt's. Write him . . . 
P.O. Box 10, Camden, Ark. 71701. 
This is an appropriate place to mention that we all should have an up-to-date class roster from our Alumni Association. Let's all drop a Une to TIM HUGHES, our genial Managing Editor of ALUMNUS and let him know .. . a little pressure from a segment of his constituency. ED LUTZ's beautiful Christmas card, done by his wife, Estelle, a professional artist with a gallery in Buffalo, N.Y., and exhibits nationally, added more beauty to my Christmas card collection. ED CANTWELL wrote a note on his card that he would act as our election com­missioner for selection of class officers. You should be hearing from him . . . maybe before you read these notes. Heard from VERNON RICKARD (and wife Zola) .. . he is busy working in a CBS-TV series called "Amie." He says it's a Jewish "Life of Riley" sort of thing. He sees WALTER O'KEEFE occasionaUy. Walter was of the class of '21 and followed a similar occupational road to national prominence. He is not too well at the present time and his old buddies could cheer him up in this, our final quarter (as CUff put it). DR. J. F. COVA of Mingo Junction, Ohio 43938 reminisced about his six-year college education at ND, part of it in S.A.T.C. He was married in the Log Cabin Chapel in '34 and hopes to make it back there this June. JOE RYAN, Box 123 ND 46556 is at Lyons Hall, but has given up the teaching. He might per­form a local errand for someone who might have a special word for Fr. Hesburgh CSC. TOM KELLY CSC is still at Portland U. and is still actively teaching. I must mention my old crony-in-crime, BILL (GENE) O'ROURKE '25. Remember Bill? He was more New Yorker than Jimmy Walker or Al Smith of presidential aspirations back in those days. 1 tried to renew relations when in New York a couple of years ago, but Bill was in Europe; so I guess he made it, if that's an indication. Mrs. CLIFF MclNTOSH has kept me better informed about Cliff and their offspring than any wives of '24. They have a son, DR. MICHAEL X. MclNTOSH who premedicated at ND . . . also a daughter, SHEILA BRIDGET, who just received her Master's at ND, class of '69. Two other married daughters live in Omaha. She further reports that HAROLD "OBIE" O'BRIEN, 521 Townview Circle East, Mansfield, Ohio, retired from Mansfield Tire & Rubber Co., took up active local management of Space-Age Electronics Inc., Mansfield office. More of the wives who read these notes might pick up the baton. I have a very understanding wife who enjoys stimulating me to action by that very successful and feminine wile of subtle flattery. 
As a parting shot, remember the column is only as good as the ammunition you supply . . . watch for news about the class elections . . . and plan now on meet­ing your old 'mates in June '71. 
James P. Durcan 54(K) SW Scholls Ferry Rd. Portland, Ore. 97225 
'25 FOR 30tfa YEAR 
Through the thoughtfulness of PAUL KRAUS '57 of Toledo, I received a news item concerning JOSEPH P. MILLER, who is a South Bend attorney and has been 
reappointed to the Indiana Industrial 
Board for the 30th consecutive year. Joe 
holds all longevity records on the board, 
having served as chairman 12 years and has 
served under eight different gubernatorial 
administrations. In '61 he was elected 
president of the International Assn. cf 
Accident Boards and Conmiissions. 
Information just came to me of the death 
of GEORGE E. TOHULKA of Elkhart 
who died Aug. 5, '70. In the same mail 
came word of the death of Florence 
McCarron, wife of WARD W. McCAR-
RON of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Our 
deepest sympathy to George's family and 
to Ward in their great loss. Remember 
them in your prayers. 
I hope some of you can make "April in Paris" with JIM and Marion ARM­STRONG. We saw this group in action in Rome last spring and they have great fun. 
John P. Hurley 
2085 Brookdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
'27 DAN CUNNINGHAM 
You wfll all be saddened to hear that DAN CUNNINGHAM, our class President, died on Nov. 16 in his home at 334 Bums St., Forest Hills, N.Y. Death came quietly, although he had not been Well for some time. He is survived by his wife, Rita, two daughters, Rita lannace of Briarwood, N.Y., and Mary Ellen Wetzel of Glen Ellyn, 111., and three grandchildren. He had retired as V-P of Szabo's Food Products only on Oct. 3, 1970. I received a letter from him upon his retirement and was expecting to see him over the holidays during his contemplated visit to his daughter in Illinois. 
With Dan's passing our class loses one of its most loyal and outstanding members. From student days he was active in contributing to the glory of ND. Besides serving on various class committees at school, he was an officer of the Knights of Columbus, was on the Student Activities Council and chairman of the Blue Circle. In his senior year he was honored by the Dome as being one of those who had done most in non-athletic activities during their four years at ND in upholding its honor, glory and good name. Dan carried this love for his Alma Mater throughout his whole life. He kept in touch with his class­mates as few others do. He was the voice of ND in the East. He was already beginning to make plans for our 45-year reunion to be held in 1972. A New Yorker all his life he carried the same zeal into Cf.arch and community affairs. He was president of the Queens Catholic Interracial Council for three years until declining health caused him to resign. As you know, for several years our class has had a Mass said for each deceased member at the time of death by a priest member of the class. This time because of the office Dan held, a Mass is being offered by each of our three priests, FATHERS JAMES E. MORAN, JAMES J. MORAN and HARRY RYAN. Let us all remember him in our prayers as well. Dan's death places a great responsibility upon the rest of us. As I have mentioned only a little more than a year remains before our next reunion. Committees must be appointed and plans made. If you are called upon to serve it is hoped that you will accept your designated task so that this occasion will be as successful as the others before. 
ART MONACO has written me that JOE NULTY's wife, Helen, died on the last day of 1970. She had been a great wife to Joe and shoidd be remembered in our prayers. Art also reports that BILL DEGNEN is feeling fine and has taken on a job in Mexico where he will be chief considtant on an engineering project JIM QUINN and Art got together the latter part of December and Jim was in fine fettle. His business keeps him traveling around but he keeps in good shape. 
CORNELIUS A. ALT, Chem.E.'23, re­cently sent me some information I was glad to get concerning recognition given his brother, Richard, by his friends and associates during the last year. Richard attended ND in our freshman year. He hailed from Massachusetts and came from a family of seven children. Richard was able to obtain a scholarship from Harvard and continued his education there. He became a doctor of medicine and has had a spectacularly successful career. He engaged in private practice in Beverly, Mass., which was interrupted only by service in the U.S. Reserve Medical Corps during World War 11 in the South Pacific, receiv­ing the Bronze Star. He returned to Beverly after the war and in due course was named president of the medical staff of Beverly Hospital where he has been active in his commimity all his life and was named as Beverly's "Man of the Year" by B'nai B'rith in 1963 for his dedication and service. He received permanent recognition a few months ago when a new building at the hospital was named after him. The name Richard Alt must be added to the list of our illustrious classmates. 
NEIL (CORNELIUS) REGAN, JR. sent me an interesting letter recently. He had a severe attack in October, 1969, when he lived in Albany, N.Y., but has now moved to Marysville, Calif., where he lives at 720 G Street. He recalls to mind instances that occurred in Badin Hall, particularly the card-playing with HENRY MASSMAN. A son of Nefl's, MICHAEL, was graduated from ND in 1963 and went to Albany law school and is now a lawyer for Mahasco, Amsterdam, N.Y. I know that Neil will be glad to hear from his friends of earlier days. 
The Alumni Association has advised me of the death of two other classmates, ALOIS A. HOFFMAN, A.B.'27, and DANIEL D. HICKEY. AI died on Oct 10, 1970, and Dan on Feb. 9, 1970. Masses have been ordered for these classmates. We should remember them in our prayers also. 
Clarence J. Ruddy 111 W. Downer PL Aurora, lU. 60504 

'28 HOLIDAY SADDENED 
The holiday season was saddened by the death of one of our most distinguished classmates, ED MOWERY, on Dec. 19 at his home in Forest Hills, N.Y., apparently of a heart attack. Ed won a Pulitzer Prize for local reporting in 1953 for his successful seven-year fight to free a falsely convicted man serving a life term for murder. Ed was known for his tenacity as an investigative reporter. He received many awards and citations for his work in journalism. Ed majored in architectural design while he was at 
LaFortune Dean Holahan 
Devine Siielzer Grainger 
Joseph A. LaFortune '16, a trustee of the University, was inducted into the Oklahoma Hall of Fame in Tulsa on Nov. 16. The 76-year­old oilman-philanthropist has given his community a sports stadium, a park and a university residence hall. At ND the LaFortune Student Center is so named in recognition of his gifts to the University. 
Edward J. Dean '28, vice-president of Great Lakes Carbon Corp., St. Louis, Mo., has been installed as president of the American Coke and Coal Chemicals Institute. He took office at the organization's 25th annual meeting in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va. 
J. Frank Holahan '35, senior vice-president. National Bank of West­chester, N.Y., won the Robert Morris Associates' Duning Memorial Award for an article, "Is There a Kicker in Your Bank?" written for the Journal of Commercial Bank Lending. 
Samuel L. Devine '40L, an attorney who served three terms in the Ohio State legislature, was elected to the U.S. Congress last November. Rep. Devine is a resident of Columbus, O. 
Thomas J. Suelzer '42 has been elected vice-president soya processing at Central Soya with headquarters in Fort Wayne, Ind. He joined the firm in 1946 as an auditor. His most recent post was as manager of soya processing. 
George R. Grainger MS '49 holds the highest rank of the technical staff of Planning Research Corp., after his promotion to director of quality control for the corporation, located in the McLean, Va., office. His home is in Reston, Va. 
Notre Dame. He is survived by his widow and a daughter. His two sons were drowned while students at ND. You will remember Ed returned for our 30th reunion. I saw him regularly at Mass when I lived in Forest Hills. 
Congratulations to ED DEAN, vice president. Great Lakes Carbon Corp., on his election to the presidency of the American Coke and Coal Chemicals Institute; to BERT KORZEN on his elec­tion as Cook County Treasurer; and to BOB FCX}ERTY on his appointment to the chairmanship of the Department of History at the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul. BERNIE GARBER suggests that classmates seeking a retirement city might consider Muncie, Ind. A New York Times article on "Middletown" quotes our DICK GREENE, editorial writer for the Muncie Star, as saying "It's a friendly place." 
CHARLIE SHELANSKEY of West­hampton Beach, N.Y., underwent surgery for a cardiovascular condition. BOB HAMILTON visited GEORGE COURY at his Miami home and reports that George is making progress in his recovery following his near fatal heart attack. BILL MURPHY heard that FRANK QUINN was in a hospital in Lexington, Ky. JOHN CARLIN advised BILL DWYER that CHARLIE MURPHY has been HI. 
LEO G. ROEMER, who in 1965 became president of Wisconsin Public Service Corp., plans to retire in March. Bill Dwyer and I had a good get-together with JOHN ANTUS at the wedding of John's son in our parish church in Chicago. John is retired. 
TOM MAHON sent a clipping from a column in the sports page of a St. Paul paper which carried a picture of RAY MOCK and quoted him in connection with the 35th anniversary of a Softball team. Ray is the lone survivor of the first team. Ray is director of placement, personnel and financial aid at St. Thomas College. DAN BRADLEY had his annual '28 get-together in Amilyville, N.Y., with the AL TAYLORS, JOHN ANTUSes, GEORGE CRONGEYER and VIC FISHER. Dan showed our 40-year reunion pictures which will be available for our 45th in 1973. 
Bill Dwyer did his usual good job in promoting '28 class attendance at the Chicago Club Rockne dinner in December. Bill reports the following in attendance: ED BRENNAN, BILL DWYER, JOE GRIFFIN, Judge JOHN LYONS, 
GEORGE MCLAUGHLIN, ED MC­KEOWN, ED McSWEENEY, RAY MUL­LIGAN, HOWARD PHALIN, JERRY LE STRANGE, BOB TROTTER, CHARLES SCHUESSLER. 
FRANK CREADON, Howard Phalin and I represented the class at a luncheon meeting in Chicago where we heard Father Burtchaell, the new ND provost, give an excellent talk. At the Dec. 8 Mass-Dinner in New York, where Father Cavanaugh spoke, were ED BRENNAN, GEORGE CRONGEYER, VIC FISHER, BERN GARBER, BOB and Marion HAMILTON and ADRIAN and Mary LOPEZ. George Crongeyer was on the committee for this affair. SWEDE SCHROEDER picked up a bug in China which has slowed him down a bit. He was looking forward, however, to his snow­mobile trip to Yellowstone. Swede will be at the '28 class get-together at JOE DORAN's after the Purdue game on Sept. 25, 1971. FRANK KELLY, who hasn't 
been back for a reunion since our 5th, 
writes that he hopes to get to the '28 Class 
party at ND after the Michigan State game 
on Sept. 18, 1971. 
This is a difficult period, with all the retirements, to keep up on new addresses. JOHN GAUGHAN, my No. 1 problem on getting lost, is now in Indiana, Pa. Mrs. WILLARD WAGNER has moved to Phoenix, Ariz. Howie Phalin's address in the winter months is 3900 N. Ocean Dr., Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Fla. Bob Nickells now lives at 8030 Alston Ave., Hespemia, Calif. Ray Mulligan is now located in Arlington Heights, 111., at 1215 N. Waterman. Our thanks go to Bill Dwyer, our class agent, for the excellent letter sent to us in December. I hope it got results, so the class will be another first in 1970 as in the past years. 
Pauline and I deeply appreciate the many wires, telephone calls, letters and cards received on our 40th wedding anniversary in December. I was particularly pleased to hear from a number of classmates who wrote for the first time. Please continue to send me news on retirements, changes of addresses, etc. 
JOHN FREDERICK'S name was inad­vertently omitted from the list of class­mates attending our post-game party. Thanks to LEO McINTYRE for calling this to my attention. Were there other class­mates missing from the list? Leo also mentioned that JOHN P. "CLIPPER" SMITH has been nominated for the Football Hall of Fame. 
The JOE MORRISSEYs returned to ND for their 40th anniversary on Dec. 27. The Howard Phalins observed their 40th on Jan. 17, 1971. 
I regret to advise that CHARLES S. MURPHY died from cancer shortly after Christmas in Los Angeles. He was the 
U.S.A.F. auditor general for 20 years and transferred in 1963 to the North American Aviation, Inc. Charley is survived by his wife. He was active in the Los Angeles Club and has served as chairman of the ND Challenge program there. He was inter­ested in our Class. I last heard from him after he represented the Class at Ed Cunningham's funeral. 
Louis F. Buckley 6415 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, 111. 60626 

'29 "IT'S GOOD TO KNOW . . ." 
B. J. "BERNIE" HUGGER, Greater Cincinnati Airport, was elected regional V-P at Cincinnati for American Airlines at a recent meeting of the A. A. board of directors. Bernie is a 41-year veteran of American and its predecessor companies. Now you, too, can think of him when you see the current A. A. TV commercial which features the takeoff and ascent of their animated jumbo jets. ROCCO PERONE writes, "I was happy to attend the after-football game reunion to join with JOHN COLANGELO and my 'young' roommate PAUL ROSS in singing that great 'Irish ballad': 'O Marionello' in Gaelic. SID SIDENFADDEN and LARRY MOORE, our Sophomore Hall neighbors should have been on hand to hear us. I'm sure they would have emptied our medicine cabinet contents into the sink . . . my daughter, Mary Elena, and her husband are still in Japan where he has a Navy assignment. Paulette and Rocco in Fairfax, 
Calif., where he is in school. Denise is 
working on her master's in music at 
Cincinnati while Perry (15) is still at home 
with Agnes and me." 
JIM and Elizabeth KENNEDY, Chicago, parents of 12 children, are now grand­parents of 14. Jim writes, "For the first time in 35 years, the task of obtaining photographs of all our offspring and their spouses seemed overwhelming and hence this abbreviated card. Our son, Tom, for whom I asked the prayers of our classmates two years ago, is slowly recover­ing from his third brain-tumor operation. The affliction cost him his hearing in one ear and impaired sight in the right eye, but we are thankful to have him with us and able to get around on his own. God must be saving him for something." 
Son, BOB '66, who distinguished himself in heavyweight boxing (Bengal) bouts in 1965 and 1966 is a "legislative intern" serving on the staff of State Senator Arrington in Springfield, 111. This is an innovation in Illinois in which a select group of "prospective politicians are trained in legislative matters, to run for future political office or to assist elected officials. It is sponsored by the U. of Illinois and combines 'on-the-job and classroom' instruction. . . ." This belated quote from DR. JOHN VAICHULIS, Chicago, received early last fall, "Sorry, I just got out of the hospital. I may not drop by for the class get-together. Lost my wife, Anne, last June 3." This from LUDWIG PETERSCHMIDT and daughters, 2606 Marland Wd. Cir., Temple, Tex. . . . "Announce with deep sorrow the death of their wife and mother, Olga Marie, on Oct. 27." These few words say so much. Need I try to express the reaction that comes to each of your classmates? 
"A reading of the debates makes obvious the remarkable acumen of the newly seated representatives, and the facility and order with which they began and carried through their parUamentary functions. . . . The consideration of amendments to the Constitution was actually instigated by the states. . . The debates concerning these first 10 amendments are of special sig­nificance today in light of civil disturbance, etc. . . ." The preceding quote obviously was not written about the 91st Congress during its final days, on the contrary, it is quoted from a book review of "The First Congress" authored by our own ROBERT P. WILLIAMS who from 1932 to 1968, except for a term of service as a Naval officer during WW II, was a member of the staff of the Committee on Appro­priations of the House in Washington, 
D.C. Bob and his wife, Helen, now live in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The informative and fascinating book is a verbatim com­pilation of the noteworthy debates of the First Congress, 1789-1791. The publisher is Exposition Press Inc., Jericho, N.Y., the price is $12.50. If you need an excuse to buy it just say that it is for the term paper of a son or daughter, or that you want to send it to that so-and-so who you voted against. 
IVAN WOLFs have moved from Youngs­town, Ohio, to 333 The Esplanade N, Venice, Fla.; RAY BREEN's new address is 3240 W. 98th St., Apt 10, Qeveland, Ohio; KARL MARTERSTECK now Uves at 2739 S.W. Patton Ct., Portland, Ore.; JOE FRIEL's mail now goes to 142 Hamilton Rd., Rockville Center, N.Y., rather than to 375 Park Ave., N.Y. City. 
ELMO and Susy MOYER now reside in 
Pennsburgh, Pa. 18073 where Elmo is 
employed by C & D Batteries Division of 
Htra Inc. JOHN T. ROURKE's address 
since last summer is 49 Fairview St, 
Brattboro, Vt, and THOMAS M. FAR-
RELL's is 2038 Palm St, Las Vegas, Kev. 
BOB NEWBOLD's address since Oct 1 
has been 10643 Saratoga Circle, Sun City, 
Ariz. TOM and Dorothy MAHAFFEY 
have sold their home in Scaisdale, N.Y., 
and will winter at 5700 Old Ocean Boule­
vard, Apt V, Delray Beach, Fla. He 
writes: "Still have my office in White 
Plains and expect to return to N.Y. area 
in June. I play golf at Dehray Dunes Golf 
Club where PAUL FOGARTY '17 is a 
fellow member." 
We regret that we have to relay the belated news of the March 12, 1970, death of JOHN F. MORAN, A.B.'29. We send our sympathy and the promise of remembrance in our prayers to his family, 115 Jennette Dr., Youngstown, Ohio 44512. 
Larry F. Stauder 
Engineering Bldg. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

'30 SLIGHTLY USED 
The Class of 1930 had no official cor­
respondent at the Cotton Bowl game in 
Dallas, but we may have had a number of 
unofficial observers who could file good 
reports on what transpired in Texas around 
New Year's Day. Let's hear from them! 
CY MULLEN wrote the other day: "My wife, Katherine, and I have retired to New Mexico. My son and his family are in Chicago, so our menage here consists of one Arabian stallion, one German Shep­herd; our holdings, one small house, one large bam, one goat pen—goatless at the moment—on a half-acre in the Northwest Valley of Albuquerque. I am completing a book. Life on the Slightly Used Horse, which, of course, I hope to sell. This at least keeps my hand in my major voca­tional interest, writing, and my major recreational interest, horses. Sometimes the vocational and recreational interests conflict. For example, a ride on the horse along the Rio Grande last winter resulted in a broken back which, in turn, interrupted my writing attempts for six months. Generally, though, I've found the two activities compatible during my, roughly, 37 years in advertising. The back is now almost well, or mended I guess one would say, although some activities are still a little uncomfortable; by the time warm weather arrives I expect everything to be normal. 
"I very much like the tone, contents and vigor of the ALUMNUS, and other printed material coming out of the Univer­sity in recent years, and the new spirit of reasoned freedom of inquiry that they— for the most part—reflect My best wishes and congratulations to all concerned." 
A quick note from FATHER RAY TOTTEN sends greeUngs to the 1930 class: "I am glad the class reunion was such a great success. It would have been great to have been there. I am alone here (St Aloysius Church, Strasburg, Ohio) and some 100 miles from the diocese head­quarters, in Columbus. So I don't get away on Sundays. Happy New Year." 
Mrs. BOB COONEY sent some negatives of pictures taken by Bob several months before his death, Nov. 11. He was one of the busiest photographers at the reunion 
last summer. JOE RUPPE and his family 
had lived several years in San Francisco 
after long residence in South Bend 
following graduation from the Engineering 
College. This year ihey returned to the 
Midwest and now live in Hancock, 
Mich., the old locale of Joe's parents for 
many years. His son, ROGER '64, and wife 
spent a few days around New Year's 
with me and my son, JOHN '65. They led 
the cheers at the Cotton Bowl gathering 
before the tube in our home. There are 
some very pleasant holiday greetings from 
KARL BRENNAN, CHET ASHMAN, 
BO RICHARDS and JACK REILLY. 
As house guests for the Pittsburgh weekend we were pleased to have CHARLES MILTNER '31 and his wife. Chuck, who had a 5-point grade advantage on all of us because he was the nephew of the Dean, was in many classes with 1930 stalwarts. 
It is about time for our class president and his cabinet to send us some guidelines for the new year. If we could get a State-of-the-Class message from President TIMOTHY TOOMEY, we would allow GEORGE O'MALLEY equal space in the next issue to deal with that document. 
Devcre T. Plunkett 
College of Arts and Letters 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

'31 REMEMBER REUNION '71 
It's a cold winter day in Chicago and before long many of us will be enjoying that balmy June Indiana weather at our 40th Reunion. You will have received a letter on the Reunion which 1 hope will develop a strong response and indication of how many are planning a trip to the campus next June. Your telephone calls and letters can make this a successful affair. 
ALFRED C. STEPAN JR. was the recipient of the Daniel A. Lord award made by Loyola Academy in November, 1970, which is given to persons interested in the cause of youth. Another recipient was EDMUND A. STEPHAN '33, chairman of the board of trustees of our University. Investors Digest recently carried an article on Stepan Chemical Co., with Al's smiling countenance highlighted. 
LUIS GODOY was in Chicago for Christmas with his wife and son. We had a pleasant visit and luncheon at the I.A.C. Luis asked about many classmates and sent best wishes. He also talked to CARL CRONIN and is planning to be back in June. BUD GIES attended the USC-ND game and sent an L.A. clipping on that disaster. He and ED SHEERAN are planning on the USC-ND game here next fall and may not return in June. BUD TOUHY plans on attending reunion with his sons, BRIAN '61 and DAVID '66. Wonder who can beat that record in our class? Among other out-of-towners who sent Christmas cards were JOHN FORD MEAGHER, BOB SULLIVAN, TOM MONAHAN, FRANCIS HENNE­BERGER, FRED SWINT, TOM ASHE and F. X. MURPHY JR. I saw JACK SCHMITT a few days ago in the loop. He reports that his wife has recovered from a heart problem of last summer and fall. According to ndes of the Alumni Association elections of class officers are to be held at each five-year reunion. Our class has been remiss in this important function and I hereby declare the office of Class Secretary open for nomination. See you all in June. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. 
Evanston, 111. 60201 

'32 FOR COEDUCATION 
It's hard enough to get news from you fellows and out of the blue comes a note from LOU BUCKLEY, secretary of the Class of '28 with this item, "JIM DOUCET will retire on Jan. 8 as special assistant to the director of the U.S. Department of Labor, Manpower Administration in Washington, D.C., after 35 years." Thank you, Lou. Well, it wouldn't be Christmas without a family portrait card from FRANCIS MARLEY. It is wonderful to see all his family, with brides and husbands, etc. Than'c you, Francis. Also, a long note from PETE STREB who says I failed to print an earlier note from him last fall. Lord knows I didn't receive it or I certainly would have used iL His latest epistle tells of visiting his son, TIM '66, in Los Angeles. While in California he talked to MARTY BRILL, and at ND rally saw GENE CALHOUN, JUDGE CARBERRY and Pat O'Brien. He says BILL WALTZ is still with Peoples Merchant Bank. Also says EMMETT MURPHY is a school superintendent or principal in Chicago. Pete and Margaret went to Dallas for the Cotton Bowl. Thank you, Pete. HERB GIORGIO copied me with the fol­lowing letter to the Director of Admis­sions— 
"Dear Sir: Assuming that in the not too distant future the University of Notre Dame will become a full-fledged co-educational institution, which Fran Oelerich and I advocated in 1930, much to our chagrin, I would like to go on record at this time in favor of same and would appreciate receiving communications regarding the admission of my daughter, Melissa, aged five, to the Class of 1983 and my daughter, Mary Grace, aged four, for the Class of 1984." 
Captain ROBERT E. LEE U.S. Navy writes that he is now assigned as staff judge advocate and director of the Law Center at COMFAIRJAX and will retire in October of '71. Bob and Gertrude will continue to live in Jacksonville. They both visited JIM and Lee COLLINS in Cleve­land and JOHN and Betty LITCHER. Thank you. Bob. RAY GEIGER sent two long letters teUing that HENRY THOLEN is with Burger Bra and Girdle Co. in Con­necticut. RAY visited RAY PFEIFFER in Louisville, MARTY DOLAN in Minne­apolis and others. Ray travels coast to coast for his company. Farmers' Almanac. Thank you, Ray. One last note, ARCHIE DONOHUE wants you to know his lovely daughter, Mary Pat, is right halfback for Villa Maria's hockey team. Evelyn and 1 had a wonderful three-day weekend at the Donohue home for the Navy game. FRANK KELLY has moved from Philadelphia to 419 Vista Del Llano Drive in Whittier, Calif. Thanks to all of you for all the news. Happy New Year. 
Florence J. McCarthy 
6 River Road 
Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 

'33 PERFECT DAY 
As the weather prediction was 100 per cent 
rain for the Navy game, many stayed 
away from what turned out to be a perfect 
footbaU day. LARRY SEXTON and 
ED ECKERT sent me their tickets 
because they were unable to attend. Dot 
and PETE CONNELLY, however, 
drove from Rochester, N.Y., and were 
the first to greet us when we arrived at the 
Ben Franklin Hotel for the pregame rally. 
Their daughter, Nora, had joined them 
by flying from Boston where she's 
employed. BILL CAMPBELL, president of 
the ND Subway Alumm°, had a sumptuous 
suite of rooms at the hotel headquarte-s 
well stocked with a variety of liquid 
refreshments. TIM TOOMEY '30 served 
as co-host and, a non-drinker, made the 
ideal bartender. JOE DOYLE of the 
South Bend Tribune appeared and gave a 
dissertaU'on on politics and sports. 
ED KRAUSE and others spoke at the rally. I had seen Ed on the previous Monday when he gave a humorous dialogue to the Maxwell Club at their weekly luncheon. RIP MILLER '25 appeared for the Navy. DAN YOUNG "22 sat at our table and reminisced about WALTER O'KEEFE '21, famous stage, screen and TV entertainer. 
JACK KENNEY waved to us as we waited at Gate 10 with Ed Eckert's tickets for Pete Connelly. At the game we saw Mr. and Mrs. PHIL FAHERTY and Mr. and Mrs. TONY PUGLIESE Although a rout, the game was fun for us to watch as the ND ticket manager kindly sent me tickets on the 50. We sat with Betty and JOE WACKERMAN '35 and in the crowd recognized PAUL TOLAND '43, JOE MULQUEEN '40 and VINCE CARROLL '68. SAM HYDE sent regrets from the West Indies and said he'd meet us at the Cotton Bowl. Dr. BOB DONOVAN was scheduled to be at the game but we couldn't locate him. On the sidelines was that great friend of ND, Dr. GREG LIPAK of Steelton, Pa. After the victory, we had delicious dinners at BART JOHNSON'S '48 General Wayne Inn, Merion, Pa. It was a terrific Halloween. 
When Lt. Gov. RAY BRODERICK '35 campaigned for the governorship in Haverford Twp., Delaware County, Pa., he was greeted by BILL BODO and VINCE DONOHUE '32. As you know Ray, a great ND man, lost, in a hard fight, to a Democratic landslide. 
By taking a late fall vacation I was able to attend the Georgia Tech game. Irene and I went West by way of Connersville, Ind. and Chicago. On the campus we visited BOB CAHILL and Ed Krause in their palatial offices in the Athletic and Convocation Center—a far cry from their dormitory sub rooms of a few years ago. Both were quite busy with not only the game activities but with a sold-out Bob Hope show that evening in the ACC. We also saw and again talked with Dr. Greg Lipak and Coach Joe Yonto. 
Mr. and Mrs. PAT CROWLEY gave us a gracious greeting when we looked in on the Law Advisory Council having a meeting in the Center for Continuing Education. In that Center's lobby, we viewed a magnificent sculpture, shown to be the gift of Mr. and Mrs. Sam Hyde. Later we met PHIL FAHERTY who was at the HoUday Inn on the Dixie Highway. With barrister Phil were Bill Losch, Senior Vice President of the Hunterdon County National Bank of Flcmington, NJ., Jack Allen, proprietor of the Lambertville (NJ.) House, Harry Schmutz and Dave Day, an old Army buddy of Phil's and now a leading attorney of Terre Haute, Ind. The Faherty daughter, a beautiful girl like her mother, Rita, is a student at St. Mary's. 
Before the game, we were guests of 
Louise and LARRY SEXTON at their 
tailgate party in the front parking row back 
of the stadium Gate 10. Others who enjoyed 
the famous Sexton hospitality were 
THOMAS W. SEXTON, BERNIE 
LENAHAN, CHARLIE FARRIS and ED 
KOSK"S^. At the game we were seated about 
the same distance from Mr. and Mrs. Tony 
PugUese as we were at the Navy game—a 
real coincidence. After the close of the 
game, we were fortunate to have dinner in 
the Morris Inn where we noticed ED 
STEPHAN, busier than ever in his efforts 
on behalf of the University. 
RAY NABER, who runs the Kentucky Flying Service in Louisville, wrote he traveled to Cincinnati recently and talked with CARROLL STALEY, who is still with Procter and Gamble. His brother, SETON STALEY, was out of town but Ray talked to his wife, Madeline. At the Army game, Ray visited his son, who is a Junior, and later went to the Alumni reunions at the ACC where he and ED GOUGH represented the class of '33. Phil Flaherty and I were the representatives after the Georgia Tech game—a nice custom. Our Kentucky friend closed with a promise to look for "RED" BARRETT at the LSU game. JOHN M. CRIMMINS put together a new law firm starting last July 1— Waltenbaugh & Koegler, Suite 517 Frick BIdg, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219, phone (412) 261-3344. John and his wife, Lucile, have three sons in universities this semester, will have four sons in universities next semester, and will have five sons in the fall semester of '71. John, I don't know whether to send congratulations or sympathy. Belated STEVE BANAS postcards arrived from Hong Kong and Switzerland. JOHN H. TRAVERS JR., Buffalo, N.Y., was elected treasurer of the Building Owners and Managers International Assn. of Executives. By progression he is scheduled to become president in 12. 
The architectural firm of Malcolm and Higgins in which JAMES MALCOLM is a partner in Charlotte, N.C., has merged with Henm'ngson, Durham and Richardson, architects-engineers. Malcolm has been a member for the past 15 years of the Charlotte Redevelopment Commission and the Charlotte Park and Recreation Commission. Dot and Pete Connelly made their annual pilgrimage to Europe last summer. Before leaving they were involved in a long-distance talkathon with the Larry Sextons and the Bemie Lenahans. It seems our classmates were celebrating an Indiana wedding and thought they'd call Pete. Much later that night they called me and, although sleepy, I was happy to hear again the melodious Hoosier drawl. 
ED MASSA, reports correspondent C. F. HAFRON, arranged a Missouri game TV party for our San Francisco alumni. They were also preparing for a trip to the Southern Cal game in Los Angeles. Fr. JIM DONNELLY has been requested to offer Masses of remembrance for two deceased classmates, JAMES F. DALY and ROBERT P. SULLIVAN. Jim died Aug. 31, 1968, and is survived by his widow, who resides at 19 Shady HoUow Drive, Dearborn, Mich. 48124. Bob died Nov. 4, 1970 and formerly resided at 205 East Magnolia St., Stockton, Calif. 94202. May their souls be quickly on their way to God! 
KARL VOGELHEIM, the squire of Rogers City, Mich., writes at ED ROXAS will be in Spain for the next year. I had just mailed a note to Ed telling him of the death of my dear friend. Bishop Frank McSorley, in the Philippines. Karl is still awaiting the arrival of JOE DAVEY and his titam'c Historymobile and says that he has been unable to locate MIKE COYLE and get his name on the '33 register. He did send a long-awaited address: Lucio Muniain, Pasco Las Palmas 810, Mexico City, D.F. 
Charles A. Conley 
100 East Tumbull Ave. 
Havertown, Pa. 19083 
'34 FAST RECOVERY 
I am sending this report from the Illinois Central Hospital, Jan. 5, where I have been recuperating from a coronary since Nov. 28, 1970. 1 really had the attack on Nov. 25 but did not realize it then. My recovery has been good so far and I expect to be returning to my home at 210 Elm Park Ave., Elmhurst, III. 60126, in a week or so. I missed the Texas game but did enjoy learning of the score. I was not permitted to watch it on TV or listen to radio. My son, Ed Jr., and my daughter, Renee, attended the game. 
J. WALTER KENNEDY, commissioner of the National Basketball Assn., was scheduled to receive a Gold Key from the Connecticut Sports Writers Alliance at a dinner on Jan. 25 in New Haven. He is also getting plenty of press due to the Spencer Haywood case. I imagine the new Cleveland team is causing him some sleepless m'ghts too. 
I would like to thank CHARLEY QUINN for his Christmas greetings. I saw an article in the Chicago papers about JAMES S. KEARNS who is still executive secretary of the Bowling Proprietors Assn. of Greater Chicago. 
JAMES D. COONEY, our Alumni Secretary, has notified me of the death of 
F. WELLS ROBINSON BSCE '34. Wells died Nov. 20. He was the father of E. PATRICK '59, and F. JAMES '66. I was very sorry to receive this news and would like to extend my sympathy to the entire Robinson family. 
As usual, we have many changes of addresses and mail being returned with new addresses unknown. The following changes are: DANIEL E. BRENNAN JR., 76 Lyon Terrace, Bridgeport, Conn. 06604. DANIEL J. BRICK, 949 Palmer Road, BronxviUe, N.Y. 10708. JOHN F. CARMODY, 217 Reed, Moberly, Mo. 65270. THOMAS PATRICK DALY, 105 Rosewood Drive, Lansdale, Pa. 19446. JOHN F. FISHER, 27006 Joy Road, Redford Manor Apt 203, Detroit, Mich. 48239. WILLIAM W. GREEN, 206 Courthouse Annex, 409 Mann SL, Corpus ChrisU, Texas 78401. REUBEN ELMER GRUNDEMAN, 1713 5th St, So., Fargo, 
N.D. 58102. WILLIAM PAUL HUGHES, 
3111 N. Ocean Drive, Hcdiywood, Fla. 
33029. vnUAAM N. McCORMICK. Biot 
House §IS, 40 Wasfaington SL, East 
Orange, NJ . 07017. REV. EDWARD L. 
O'MALLEY, 10 Lodge St, Albany, N.Y. 
12207. RALPH E. ROGERS, Casffla 492, 
Arequipa, Peru. EDWARD F. SPORL, JR., 
212 Veterans Blvd., Metairie, La. 70005. 
The Alumni Association informs me all mail sent to the following people is maAed "Returned Unknown." MILTON W. BARRVs last address was 2739 N. Grand Ave., Suite 318, St Louis, Mo. 63106. FRANK MOSS SANDERA's last knomi address was 3327 Stonecrest Ct, Chamblee, Ca. 30005. Any classmates knowing their new address please write to the ND Alumni Association. 
I want to thank MSGR. JAMES MOSCOW for his personal visits to the hospital. It really gave me a great lift to visit with him. JOHNNY MAKER called from Tyler, Tex., looking for tickets to the Cotton Bowl. Sony I was not home to chat with him. Also, sorry I was not home when RAY TROY cafled from NJ. I want to thank BOB CAHILL, MOOSE KRAUSE, and ERV KIEP for remembering me here in the hospital. I would also like to say "Thank You" to all the N.D. Alumni in Chicagoland who iriioned my ofBce and home inquiring about my condition. 
JIM MORRISON tells me FRANK MATTHYS is home from the hospital and feeling fine after minor surgery. DAVE FROEHLICH (formerly of Fasano Pie) now retired, purchased a home in Fla., from BILL MOTTSETT, who is in the real estate business in Pompano Beach, Fla. JOHN E. (RED) TOBIN still resides in Madison, Wise. JIM O'BRIEN is also building a home in Fla. REV. JOSEPH A. GIERUT is now residing at 2732 W. 86tb PI., Chicago, lU. 
The class of 1934 has my daughter, Renee, to thank for receiving this report Without her secretarial skills there would have been no report this month. We're very proud of Renee who is a junior at Loretto Heights College in Denver and just presented us with a 3.80 report card. 
Ed Moran 
2501 N. Central Ave. 
Chicago, lU. 60639 
'35 QUOTA MET 
This is the issue, right after the holidays, which usually is the toughest to write. Who wants to write love notes to the secretary dining the holiday season! However, here goes with at least part of my quota of 250 words per issue per VAN HUISSELING's orders. 
First—just got to bring up the wonderful victory over the number one (?) team. Didn't go but helped other South Benders provide tickets to several of our Southern classmates. Watched it on TV and at one point while the camera was panning the crowd am positive it stopped for a s]£t second on JIM JENNINGS. He probably was making so much noise the camera crew was impelled to look him over! Anyway, it was a great victory and vindicated that loss to So. CaL 
About Southern CaL—^tbere was a mini-reunion of '35ets held there and, per Ed Van Huisseling tbey had a ball de^t e the loss and weather. The HRUBYs and MELINKOVICHs hosted the group, and they didn't spare the horses—lunch at 20th Century-Fox Studios, tour of Disneyland, cocktaUs and dinner at an exclusive club, a Mexican Buffet at Lou Hruby's home Saturday nite, etc. Oh, yes, a few did see the game that afternoon too—at least a part of it. Only JOE SCHMIDT weathered the entire game. The group besides the hosts and hostesses: The ROCKY LANGs, BOB ROGERS' Jim Jennings', Joe Schmidts, ANDY MAFFEIs, Van Huisselings and, belive it or not, the long-lost JOHN F. RYANs—not part of my clan—the Class of '3S's outstanding tenor in the Glee Club. I always called him "Big John" to distinguish him from my brother and me. Where have you been all these years, John? How about a rundown on the past 35 years for my next column? You write me and I'll promise an "exclusive" in the next issue. Joining the '35ers also were the BOB PORSTs, Class of '58, and BILL PRANGE, Class not mentioned. Ed couldn't say too much about the hospitality and thoroughness the hosts and hostesses had displayed in arranging the weekend program. Lou Hruby sent me some pictures which attested to Ed's glowing account of their reception, but too late to get them in this issue. 
A couple of honors were bestowed on two of our illustrious classmates recently. KURT SIMON, the most important but demure member of the South Bend reunion committee for 35 years was honored with the "City of Peace" award at the State of Israel Bonds dinner early in December. His citation was for "outstanding participation" in the Israel Bond Program. Kurt last year made a trip to Israel to "observe firsthand what distribution in funds was made from the sale of Israel Bonds." The trip for that purpose could have been expected of Kurt! He has been in the vanguard of committee members of our reunions checking on the "income" and "outgo" of reunion funds for these past 35 years! Congrats to Kurt who has been an active leader in a number of community affairs in South Bend for years. The honor was well deserved! 
FRANK HOLAHAN won the Robert Morris Associates' Duning Memorial Award for 1969. The award was made to Frank for an article judged to be "the best one written by an RMA member, and published in the Association's monthly Journal of Commercial Lending." He was presented with it at a luncheon in Boston in November at the annual Fall Conference of the RMA. I read the citation, and the criteria for winning were rough. Congrats to you, too, Frank. JIM KELLY wrote that JORDAN HARGROVE, who suffered a heart attack in June, but who is now doing fine, moved from Jim's home town to Florida, where he will be associated with a college in Business Administration. 
Keep those notes coming! Next deadline is coming up fast after you receive this issue and my ghost writer is already having fits about the lack of news! 
William F. Ryan 
1620 E. Washington South Bend, Ind. 46617 


'36 BACK IN BUSINESS 
Due to many unfortunate circumstances I was unable to make the column dateline the past few months. Will try to remedy this situation from now on. 
Will start with last letter I received from JAMES FOOHEY. Jim, BERT BAUR, TONY MAZZIOTTI, TOM GRADY, honorary '36er LUKE CARROLL, BILL 

STEINKEMPER with assorted friends, 
joined in attending the Northwestern game. 
After the game we adjourned to the 
Steinkemper home in Evanston for 
refreshments and a lovely meal. Just about 
the same group meets before almost every 
home game, with some additions. At the 
Army game DAN O'BRIEN arranged for 
an after-game dinner at Morris Park 
Country Club for the above-named 
stalwarts, as well as JIM O'KEEFE, ART 
MULHOLLAND, MSGR. ED HAMMER 
and his companion, MSGR. BRENNAN. 
Msgr. Ed commented that he has been 
attending Army games since before he was 
even thinking about being a priest. 
Jim thinks we should go all-out for a big attendance at reunion this coming June. Incidentally Jim saw JOE O'NEILL (Midland Type) at the Purdue game. All were saddened by the loss of his beloved Kale. Jim continues that goodly number of '36ers got the roster and Reunion '71 and equally sure that those who did have information concerning at least some of those listed under "Mail returned unclaimed." For example, Mazziotti must know PAT DONOVAN'S new address, and suggest we all take it upon ourselves individually to contact as many '36ers as possible. Who knows, we might even persuade BILL SHAKESPEARE to come. (We need your bass voice. Shakes.) Last time Jim saw Bill was in Spa, Belgium, during the Battle of the Bulge. So let's get with it, troops, and have a great attendance at Reunion '71!!! 
JOHN V. CO^'NE, professor of Business Administration and director of Counseling Services at Regis College has been elected as the recipient of the '69-'70 Regis College Faculty Lecturer Award. WILLIAM H. FIEWEGER, vice-president of corporate relations of Kimberiy Clark, has been named to the St. Norbert College Board of Trustees. He joins four other laymen and two clergy on the board that became predominantly laymen a year ago. JOSEPH P. FOX has been recently appointed president of Champion Knitwear. BRO. SIMON SCRIBNER CSC, professor of English at St. Edward's U. has been selected to appear in the 1970 edition of Outstanding Educators of America, an annual publication recognizing men and women who have distinguished themselves by exceptional service, achievements and leadership in education. Bro. Simon joined the St. Edward's faculty in 1946. He has 
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Catholic U. of America. 
FRED CARIDEO will become vice-president New York regional public relations manager, Foster and Kleiser Division. He will be responsible for TV, Radio, and transit division. ROBERT STAPP is the author of a new fiction book A More Perfect Union, pubUshed by Harper's magazine press. It deals with North-South relations. 
Sorry to report so late with sad news. The death of ART CRONIN's wife Betty of 
Detroit, Mich.; DANIEL T. MCLAUGHLI N of Minneapolis, Minn.; Paul Belden Sr., father of PAUL B. JR. '32 and WILLIAM H. '36; WILLIAM L. JONES, of Jackson, Tenn.; Mrs. Irene Cannon, mother of WILLIAM J. '40 and GEORGE W. JR., '36. Please remember them in your prayers and Masses. 
Some lime ago I received a lengthy letter from ANDY HUFNAGLE. Hope I am forgiven for this late bit of news. Andy relates how he has been promoted to the position of assistant district manager for Uptown Social Security Office in New York City. Later was given a transfer to the Downtown Social Security Office at 39 Broadway, the heart of the financial and shipping district with the title of assistant district manager. This latter assignment has been the most enjoyable to date. However the experience is slightly ruined by the fact of enduring the spectacular torture inflicted by the Long Island Railroad and the city subways for three hours every day and is hoping for another transfer to a Long Island office sometime soon. 
Happy to say I am finally putting all the news together that I received the past few months although news has been rather scarce and letters few and far between, so now I am ready for a deluge of letters between now and the time of the '71 reunion. 
Am in hopes of making the reunion with Andy, Joe Mahar and Ed. Kennedy. Let me hear from you of any plans for the forthcoming reum'on. 
Larry Palkovic 
301 Mechanic Street 
Orange, NJ. 07050 

'38 GREAT YEAR! 
1971 just has to be a great year! Got more news, cards and notes over the holidays, looped off by that great thing the lads did to Texas on New Year's Day. Couldn't make the Cotton Bowl but sent JOHN PLOUFF and wife Marie as my emissaries. They report LEN TOBIN and wife came down from West Birmingham, Mich., to make the trip with them. LOU "Paducah" ANDERSON, South Bend's most feariess lawyer who alone has dared in recent years to run against the local judges, and JIM BEAUDWAY, and wives, also made the cotton picking scene. Plouff said ED KAVANAUGH moseyed in from Tulsa, ANDY PUPLIS from Chicago, JOE NIGRO from Denver, where he is known as Colorado's most colorful attorney. There was no slack in the greeting they received from ED "Tex" HAGGAR, either. Dr. DAN and Betty MONAGHAN sent a card they planned to Cotton Bowl, too. Anyone see 'em? 
Dr. AL SHERROD and wife Judy were up to the Pittsburgh game from Odessa, Tex., to visit freshman son, Mike. Saw them and JOE ZWERS at postgame reception in ACC along with JOE DUNN '39 and wife Frances from Rocky Ford, Colo., where Joe is president of Frozen Foods. MIKE MORRIS '40, one of JAKE KLINE'S lefties, was there too from Mexico, Mo. 
CHRISTMAS CARD NOTES: TOM BOHEN, who heads St. Thomas College Business Department, got his doctorate in business from Minnesota U. Dec. 19. Congrats, Tom. OTTO SCHERER recently became Pres. of Asso. Baby Services, Inc., 
a S30-million-a-year company with half from a diaper service. That's the way to clean up. Otto! His son, THOMAS '69, recently got out of service. Oldest dau^ter is married and has a master's (or was that a master?) Otto penned, while youngest is at Rosemont College near Phila. 
ERNIE KLlNG's wife, Kay, says Ernie commutes 80 miles a day to Burbank, Calif., working as much as 82 hours a week on Lockheed airbus but still has become an advanced organ student. Who's calling the tune, Ernie? Kay has gone into real estate and spends time at their home near Cape Kennedy, Fla. My great ole roommie, JOE WEHRLE, has retired from Punxsutawney to Rt. 1, Marion Center, Pa. (Box 27) and promised he will answer mail, which is a vast improvement over the past 33 years. HAL LANGTON's wife, Dorothea, wrote on their card from new home at 169 Dumbarton Rd., Baltimore, that Hal had a heart attack on Nov. 30 but is improving because, "as Hal says, you can't keep a good ND man down." 
The Alumni Office sent a note that the Colonel, CHARLES M. MORRISON, "Suh," a partner in the Tabb Brokenbrugh & Ragland Insurance firm of Richmond, Va., has been appointed to the Producer-Company Council of Crum & Forstcr Insurance Companies. Also on the ballot for the Board of Directors of the ND Alumni Assn. was CHARLES F. OSBORN of Seattle, whom I hope you all voted for. Charley is an attorney and a great ND booster. 
Wedding bells nearly drowned out Christmas bells here this year. Besides our daughter Barbara's wedding to Larry Kowalewski Nov. 14, FRANK and Gertrude SCHAEFER's daughter, Mary, married Gary Smith Nov. 7, and JIM and Ruby LAHEY's son, Patrick, married Mary Breen Dec. 26 in Lincoln, Nebr., where he graduated from U. of Nebraska last year. 
The bells also tolled. HAROLD WILSON died the first week of the New Year after a long illness according to a letter from his wife, leaving three sons and three daughters. Recently I received two letters from the wife of EMIL VERNONRUGE telling of Vern's death a year ago, Dec. 5, 1969, after a four-year bout with cancer. Emil and his wife, Aimee, had two sons who attended Indiana U. and Colorado State and two daughters. He was on the board of directors of Lowell, Ind., National bank. Northwest Indiana Chapter of Red Cross, Lake County Community Develop­ment Committee and Lake County School Reorganization Committee. Father JACK ANTON said a Mass for him on behalf of the class. 
Many of you '38ers have been silent, but it's not that you haven't been on the move. For instance, PAT CAREY moved from Kokomo to 4827 Craig Rd., South Bend; DICK GERMANN froc Dayton, Ohio, to 1501 Westminster Dr., Macon, Ga. GEORGE McDERMOTT, my old Marine PLC buddy, from Grand Rapids to 33234 Kingslane Ct., Farmington, Mich. ART GEIS from Dundee, 111., to 131 N. Austin Ave., Chicago, 111. BOB CZIZEK from St. Germain, Wise, to 801 W. McLain, Bloomington, 111. JOE CAMPBELL from Rocky River, Ohio, to 111 Kildare Rd., Garden City, N.Y. ED WRAPP from Winnetka, 111., to 404 Riverside Dr., Melbourne Beach, Fla. 
How about all of you making your next move to the typewriter and dropping a line to the SWEDE? 
Burnie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46625 

'40 MEN OF '40 IN BIG D! 
What a Christmas present Kay and I gave each other—a trip to the Cotton Bowl! The Men of '40 were loudly represented at the Cotton Bowl victory. Kay and I visited with BOB and Ginna TIERNAN who were in Dallas to watch their daughter, Molly, perform as an ND cheerleader. DAVE HYDE and his recent bride were extending their honeymoon. If I recall correctly the combined families have resulted in 14 children. CEC JORDAN arrived New Year's Eve from Albuquerque for a visit with his son, MIKE '68, assistant Alumni Secretary at ND. Dr. JOHN KELLEHER and his wife, Rosemary, who are the proud grandparents of John III, were also present. All of you recall the 3-0 victory over Purdue in 1939 when John kicked the winning field goal. There was not another ND 3-0 victory until this past season when Scott Hempel, a former student of mine, duplicated the feat against LSU. Better get John 111 practicing field goals soon, so he will be ready when the time comes. The Kellehers' son, John, is interning at the 
U. of Texas Medical School, Parkland Memorial Hospital, where my cousin Dr. Jay Sanford is a faculty member. What a small, small world! 
Tlie Kellehers saw DON "CHUBBY" GILLAND before the game, but we never caught up with him. Unfortunately, WALT FLEMING was out of town, but his two sons, WALTER III, '62, and ED, '63, maintained the Fleming enthusiasm. During the trip we had very pleasant visits with JOHN and Marie PLOUFF, '38 and a part of their family, with LOU ANDERSON, '38 and LEO TURGEON, '42, and many others, but I neglected to write their names down at the time. BUD TEAH's son, PHIL '71, was good company and great help in handling some of the details on our trip. Before leaving S.B. we saw BILL HOSINSKI '42 at Ben's Grill and were pleased to have CHUCK MAGNER step up and greet us. 
We were most happy to visit with Rev. JAMES FAHEY CSC '52 who routed his return trip from Austin, Tex., where he visited Rev. JOHN T. PAYNE CSC through Dallas. Fr. Fahey celebrated our nuptial Mass and calls Natchitoches, La., his home these days. (Pronounce it if you will.) The New Year's Eve party sponsored by the ND Club of Dallas was great and we sat with J. DAVID BURCH '70, his parents, and DICK and Judy LAJOIE '42. It was difiicult to find others in the crowd, but did see TOM SULLIVAN '66 and his wife. Tom and JIM COONEY '59, our alumni secretary, were very busy people at all times. Rev. JAMES L. RIEHLE CSC '59, was on our particular trip and it v/as most pleasant to get acquainted with him. He replaced his clerical fedora with a large handsome stetson for the Texas visit and victory. 
JIM DONOGHUE has been forwarding news items concerning Men of '40 whenever possible. There have been articles about DICK LYNG, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture, and his accomplishments in the area of consumer services and feeding the needy programs. BILL O'BRIEN, president of Shulton, Inc., is to serve as chairman of the next Passaic, NJ., Valley United Fund Campaign. We were unable to get to the ACC after the games this fall, but JIM DELAHANTY reports seeing MIZE MORRIS and JOHN "RED" MARTIN there. Mize, a native of Mexico, Mo., was in the summer resort region of southern Michigan a few times this summer. 
ED WURTZENBACH reports that he and his wife, Alice, are almost lost in their large home now that only two of their seven children are still at home. Ed is area manager of National Heritage Funding Corp. in Oak Brook, 111., and enjoys the investment business. My old buddy. Rev. JACK ANTON '38, took off on a trip to the Orient at about the same time as the Holy Father, but missed out on the publicity. So please note that Fr. Jack was there also. 
As you can see, practically all of this report is the result of a personal eifort which Kay and I enjoyed immensely, but cannot accomplish every issue. Please forward some notes and letters to us so the Men of '40 can continue their fine record of a column in every issue. 
Robert G. Sanford 
1568 Beaver Ridge Dr.-- Apt. B Dayton, Ohio 45429 

'41 BACK IN THE NEWS! 
Have been in the Los Angeles area for over a year now, and enjoying it very much. Was pleasantly surprised at a Dodger game last summer when tapped on the shoulder by GEORGE ALFS. We did exchange a few pleasantries. He is a long-time L.A. resident. At the Biltmore the night before the ND-U.S.C. game, there weren't too many classmates in evidence. Did see some though; EMERY BERES, just back from a tour of duty with the Federal Aviation Administration in Hawaii and now living in Seal Beach; BOB POHL, a Whittier resident; JOHN O'LOUGHLIN, stfll single and still living in Chicago. Did enjoy talking to each of them. 
After the S.C. debacle we went out to the cocktail party at the Century Plaza, but saw no additional '41 faces. Did spend some time with PAT SHEA '39, and CEC JORDAN '40, and their wives. Pat lives in San Marino and is a V-P at the Gas Company, while Cec was in from Albuquerque, where he is with Sandia Corp. Just spoke to TOM CURRIGAN, who has been in the L.A. area now for about 18 months. He is a V-P doing public affairs work for Continental Airlines. He has a daughter at St. Mary's. He had just heard from Johnny Dee our basketball coach and John still believes our team will be right up there at the NCAA Championship. 
There are two '41ers who are fellow G'endorans and I've talked to one recently, JOHN PROPECK. He is with the federal government as a C.P.A. in contract renegotiations. We both belong to the same 
parish. SL Dorothy, in Glendora, but since I go to the 8:00 and John ushers at 10:00, we've not met yet at Sunday Mass, but wiU do so in the near future. John had just received a Christmas card from BILL NAGENGAST who has just retired and is living in Miami. One of our classmates who left us in '39, is Rev. Robert Patrick O'Donnell, who is doing a wonderful job with the Glenmary Home Missioners at Vanceburg, Ky. His work was featured in the December issue of House Beautiful magazine. Father Pat who has been a steelworker, art student and designer, has formed Appalachian Industries to provide jobs for the mountain people in the area he serves. The organization makes fine furniture, primarily dress or decorator items, from two-inch thick, kiln-dried local cheny, most of which can be knocked down and shipped flat Father Pat's people also are beginning to work in silver and copper and developing a line of ceramics made from regional clay. 
Let me hear from you, '41ers, so we can prepare for a big 30th Reunion in June. 
BiU Daly 
1204 Indian Springs Drive 
Glendora, California 91740 


'42 SHORT AGAIN 
Our congratulations to VINCENT R. 
SHIELY who has been elected president 
of Briggs & Stratton Corp. at Milwaukee, 
Wise. Vince had been executive vice-
president since 1963. He resides at 630 
Honey Creek Parkway, Milwaukee, Wise. 
53213. JOHN T. PETERS has been named 
manager of General Electric's turbine-
generator marketing operation in 
Schenectady, New York. He joined GE in 
1942 and resides with his wife, Olive, and 
their daughter in Schenectady. 
We wish to extend our sympathy to THOMAS R. BLOHM on the death of his father, George C. Blohm, on November 3, 1970. 
This, the first column of the New Year, is very small, as have been most of our columns during the past year. Why not take a few minutes out of your busy schedules and drop us a line—let us know where you are and what you have been doing. All of us enjoy reading about our classmates and for most of us the only way to keep in touch. So, let's hear from you! 
William M. Hickey 5500 West 73rd St. Chicago, 111. 60638 
'43 JEWEL IN CROWN 
Another jewel is added to the crown of the Class of '43—the election of JOHN GILLIGAN as Governor of Ohio. The class can be proud of this great achievement. Congratulations, John; we know that it will be a job well done. 
Your Secretary was on campus for the LSU game and again was able to partake of the tail-gate hospitality of BILL SULLIVAN and JACK GRIFFIN. Another highlight of the weekend was the get-together of your Secretary and ND sons Mike and Pat. with JACK FINNIGAN and three sons who were in from Lincoln, Neb. The eldest son, John, is a student at the U. of Nebraska at Omaha; JOE '69 is with the FBI in D.C.; and Jim is a high schooler. It was a real "quiet" gathering with JOE HAAS serving as host at the 

K. of C. 
If you haven't attended the informal reunion held in the ACC after a home game, you are missing a real chance to visit and imbibe in comfort. There is no admission fee, a cash bar, and each class has a designated area. It is our under­standing that this event will follow each home game next year. 
ANTHONY JOS. BUONO and son were in for the USV game. "Snorky" is a real estate broker and also operates the Exchange Hotel, 217 Main St., Saugerties, 
N.Y. Another visitor was DICK SCHWARZBACH, the Ottawa, 111., lumber man, and MARK LIES, VP of Hart, Schaflner & Marx. Also reporting in was Attorney LEO LINK and three sons, of Muskegon, Mich. 
Your Secretary and son Pat stopped for a visit with Prexy JACK BARRY en route to the Cotton Bowl game, and Jack, too, was preparing for the trip to Dallas. The trip was enjoyable, and the victory was the greatest, but '43ers were as scarce as second-half touchdowns. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry St. 
Chatsworth, lU. 60921 

'45 WORTH MENTIONING 
GEORGE DESPOT checks in this month with a little news that while he was on a recent business trip to New York he saw ERNIE RAUSCHER. Then he puns that while he was here he saw no other member of the class worth mentioning. Of course he must have forgotten our long breakfast together in a Manhattan restaurant! Anyhow, pal George and his wife PearIa reside in Shreveport, La., and they have two grown young ladies, daughters Susan (15) and Rebecca (8). Father JOHN J. CONNELLY was appointed Pastor of Holy Spirit Church, 705 Second Ave., Asbury Park, N.J., reporting for "duty" Jan. 15. Our prayers will be offered that his work is fruitful and inspiring. 
JIM CAMPBELL of Columbus, Miss, is product reliability manager at AMBAC Industries-Electrical Products Division. He and his wife, Margaret Anne have four children; Jim L. Jr. (21), Elyse (22), Jack (16), and David (9). Jim recently completed a term as president of the Columbus Rotary Club. Elyse graduated last June from Mississippi State College for Women, and oldest son, Jim Jr. is a senior at Mississippi State U. Three years ago, while Jim was in Atlanta for the Georgia Tech game, he met with Dr. A. J. McNICHOLAS and his wife, Lucile. Jim keeps himself very busy. He is senior member of the American Society for Quality Control, and is listed in the 12th edition (1970-1971) of Marquis "Who's Who in the Southeast." He is a past president of the Columbus Country Club. Jim writes that he would love to hear from his old roommate PHILLIP ABBOTT from Colorado. Dr. A. J. PIZZARELLI, physician in Rochester, N.Y., and wife, Joan, have five children: Christine (20), Anthony (19), Nancy (17), Ann (15), and Marjorie (13). He reports he is well and happy. Last July, JOHN J. L. JOHNSON returned to the Detroit area where he is sales manager for the North American Tractor Operations of the 
Ford Motor Co. While in Minnesota, his 
son Jim (15) captained the Edina Optimist 
Bantam Hockey team, the U.S. National 
Championship last March in Sault Ste. 
Marie, Mich. John's other son. Jack (17) 
played for Minneapolis Stephens Junior 
Hockey team and went to the U.S. finals 
last March in National Tournament at 
San Diego, Calif. Both boys are outstanding 
young hockey players and are playing 
now with Cranbrook School, Bloomfield 
Hills, Mich. Jack has ambitions to play 
hockey for ND and has already had 
interest from the University concerning 
him. John's only other offspring is 
daughter, Mary Susan (19), who is a soph 
at Oakland U. John and wife, Margaret, 
reside in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. 
Cmdr. FRANK H. MASTERSON has 
been executive officer of the U.S. Naval 
and Marine Corps Reserve Training Center 
at Los Angeles, Calif. He was transferred 
there from the training center at San 
Diego. Good luck on the new assignment! 
MIKE GARRY and his wife, Liz, sent 
very nice Christmas greetings, as did 
many members of the class. But. Mike 
included a picture of his lovely family. 
They are: Maty Jane (17), Maureen (9), Pat 
(16), Dan (13), Anne (4), Joe (7), Kathy 
(14), and Tom (11). Congratulations, Mike! 
Lost and Found Department: This month we didn't find any of our lost class members, but we apparently lost five. Five of my letters were returned with "unclaimed" or "moved, left no forwarding address" etc., etc., etc. These are: NORBERT J. TREMKO, ROBERT E. FITZPATRICK, MICHAEL A. BISESI, WARREN A. CARTIER III, and Cmdr. JOHN G. BROZO. Any loyal class member knowing the whereabouts of these '45ers please report to your Secretary immediately. Big Brother Program: Many thanks to the members of the class who have responded to the call for an assist in putting together a scholarship for young Dennis Kehne of Syosset, a fatherless boy out of the Big Brother Program of Long Island. I have worked with Dermis since he was 12, and he has proved himself an excellent son, good student, wonderful young man, worthy of help. He works and helps support his mother and grandmother, who both work. As college approaches, I have formed a Committee for Dennis Kehne, and we are attempting to get enough together to allow him to go to college. Thanks again to the many members of the class who have practically made it a Class of '45 project 
A. U. Lesmez 122 TuUamore Rd. Garden City, N.Y. 11530 
'46 STILL ALIVE AT 25! 
Now that 1970 is gone and since you no doubt have already recovered from your holiday celebration, I wish to bring to your attention that we're fast approaching a significant milestone in our long and, 
I hope, happy lives. Yes, 1971 is the BIG 
ONE! It's the year that the great, 
although considerably small. Class of '46 
has the opportunity to re-live and 
re-vitalize those many enjoyable years back 
you-know-when. While it is true that our 
hair, faces and physical appearance may 
have changed a bit in the last 25 years, 
I'm sure that the good old Notre Dame 
spirit remains intact. This bemg so, 
let's each and every one of us make every 
effort to be at the Silver Anniversary 
and on campus on June II, 12 and 13. 
Start making preparations now. 
Now for some comments from those 
who responded to my plea for news. JOHN 
P. McGUIRE, that successful New York attorney, and his family are all doing very well in the big city. A note from NICK COMMISA informs me that he and his family have transferred their belongings from Newark to Nutley, NJ. NICK'S son, Vinnie, is preparing to follow his father's footsteps by already making plans to attend ND. 
I was very pleased to hear from my former roommate, JACK BARRETT, and his lovely wife. Sue Anna. They're still keeping a close watch on the Kentucky Derby in Louisville. From Illinois came word that BRUNO OPELA, wife Pat and children Katie, Pete and Marion are all doing just fine. Greetings received from Chatham, NJ. tell me that FRANK KOWALSKI, his wife Doris and daughter Maryane are now well settled after having spent a number of years in northern New York State. Also, it was m'ce to hear from ELMER ANGSMAN and his pleasing wife, Suzie. I understand that Elmer, the former football great, is doing a bang-up job on his TV assignments and in his lucrative business activities. This comes to me from his good friend TONY ROCCO who happens to be a close neighbor of mine. 
That's about it for now. In closing, I hope you all had a most joyous Christmas hoUday and an exciting New Year. As for 71, a resolution to fill in that yellow card and a promise to attend that glorious 2Sth reunion will be most appreciative. Good luck for a healthy and successful new year. 
Peter P. Richiski, Secretary 
6 Robin Place 
Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
'47 NEEDS NEWS 
BROTHER ROMARD BARTHEL CSC 
was re-elected to a six-year term as 
provincial superior of the Brothers of the 
Holy Cross, South-West Province, during 
their chapter last July. His office is in 
Austin, Texas. BROTHER KERIC 
DEVER CSC '47 was re-appointed 
secretaiy of the Provincial Council for a 
three-year term. In addition to that role, 
he is director of the Student Brothers* Residence at St. Edward's University. 
Also heard from BROTHER PEDRO CSC, who is stationed at Holy Cross Jum'or College in South Bend. 
Again the need for class news is urgent. Please co-operate by writing now! Best wishes for the new year. 
James J. Shea 35 Liberty Terrace Ashley, Pa. 18706 
Nichols Fowler O'Toole 
Reedy Palmer Miller 
Dr. John E. Nichols '45 has been elected to the board of managers of Methodist Hospital, Brooklyn, N.Y. He is president of the medical board of the hospital and associate attending physician in the depart­ment of medicine. 
Cornelius A. Fowler '47, who has been with Fairfield & Ellis, Boston-based insurance brokers, for 17 years, has been promoted to executive vice-president. He lives with his wife and family in Melrose, Mass. 
Joseph P. OToole Jr. '48 has been elected president and a member of the board of directors of the Myrick Equipment Co., San Jose, Calif. He formerly was general sales manager of Coxwells, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif. 
James P. Reedy '49L has been elected general counsel of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Raifaroad. He also holds the title of general solicitor for the railway. His home is in Oak Park, III. 
John B. Palmer Jr. '50 has been elected assistant treasurer of Central Soya in Fort Wayne, Ind. He joined the firm in 1954 as manager of feeder finance. He will continue as credit manager in addition to his new duties. 
James R. Miller '51, who was controller of the Fort Wayne National Bank since 1966, has been named assistant vice-president of the operations division at Fort Wayne, Ind. 
'49 SHOP'S OPEN 

I just re-read the Jan. 2, 1971 edition of the Dallas Morning News, savoring every word, milking each phrase, as the Texas sports writers dazedly try to explain the wiles of a Joe Theismann, the stinginess of that punishing Irish defense, the lack of poise of an utterly inept Texas offense (except for Phillips). "How sweet it is" really applies here! 
That game was an excellent way to begin 1971, and the very same can be said about the class mail response to my pleas for news. I actually have what amounts to a dossier from which I will select some items this month (by order of date of receipt) and the balance I shall use next issue. Nearly giddy with delight of actually having a surplus. 
First off, I received an interesting letter from WALT HAASER who reported on his family's visit to campus for the Army game. Attended the pre-game pep rally at Sorin. Said they were so far back from the porch, "we couldn't hear anything but the band." Saturday after the game they went to the reunion at the Athletic and Convocation Center, "Well organized but not very well attended . . ." "Should have it again," says Walt "Reasonably priced food and drinks and it offers a respite while traffic clears." Walt's boys were impressed with the campus, "Particularly after seeing the 
U. of Detroit campus, when we took our daughter Anne back to school." Walt is a retired Air Force colonel now working in Connecticut on special space gear projects for . . . (Did he say General Electric?) I'll maintain contact and get it straight. Out of Glencoe, 111., came a . welcome letter from BOB LEANDER. Bob felt it was time to update my records and wrote in the same reference and scholarly style that he always exhibited way back when. He called telling us of his spending the first II years after graduation with the family-owned Chicago Show Printing Co. In 1960 he moved on to another family business. Mystic Tape, which they sold to Borden, Inc. two years later. Bob managed that Mystic Division for seven years, leaving last May. He now is engrossed in the world of finance and money management via Pennsylvania SecuriU'es, which concerns itself with the field of financial planning. "Truly gratifying and challenging," says Bob. I stress financial planning, because family planning he flunked miserably (if we would believe current pleadings from planned parenthood advocates). Bob and Ricky have eight children, five girls, three boys, all in school, from the first grade through college. The two oldest girls are attending the U. of San Francisco and the U. of Northern Colorado. I can see where financial planning would become "challenging." Bob made one appeal. He would like to hear from ex-Badinite and ex-roommie, JOHN R. KENNEDY. The last he heard, John was with the New York City offices of the FBI. Can anyone help? I can see the red marker coming up the page meaning "Prepare to Phase out" .. . or Phrase out Before I do, I must add this memo that came through from the Alumni Office. Remember Big ED FAY, as tough an Irish football player as anybody we saw in our day? Well Ed has been elected president of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, a national organization 
probably ready to defend that title against 
all comers, too. He is also executive 
director and secretary of CYO in 
Pittsburgh, Pa., where he resides at 1416 
Powers Run Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15238. 

Next month, news from JOE BECK and BOB CONNELLY and JOE NAUMAN and anyone else who would like to get in print The shop is open . . . C'mon in! 
Leo L. Wesley 
155 Driftwood Lane 
Rochester, New York 14617 
'51 SHAFBVG UP FOR 
REUNION '71 
Thanks to those few persistent types who still send Christmas cards to a guy too lazy to send his own. Please remember in your prayers the mother of GEORGE SCHWIND, who died last year in South Bend. 
Our apologies for being too late to plug classmates JERRY HANK and PETE FLAHERTY for election to the Alumni Board. The time lag is the problem; these few lines have to be written by Jan. 8 to reach you about the end of Februapr. ANDY WALSH, manager of marketing for the Specialty Transformers Div. of G.E., recently moved to 10415 Morning Mist Trail, Fort Wayne, Ind. 46804. Andy married Janet Flood in 1956 and they have seven children: Kathleen, 13, Patricia, 10, Jeanne, 9, Thomas, 7, Christopher, 5, Robert 3, and Elizabeth, 1. Andy has promised to make the reunion. Recently the Walshs hosted the BOB KLINGENBERGERs and the JACK HALEYs, and Andy ran into BOB BOYNE at the Army game. Bob is also with G.E. in the Commercial Engine Div. of the Aircraft Engine Group, working on the new CF6. Bob and Arlene (Butler) live at 516 Hilltop Lane, Cincinnati, Ohio 45215. The Boynes' lineup: Kevin, 16, Loretta, 15, John, 14, Tim, 12, Ellen, 9, and Arlene, 5. Bob saw JIM HARTMAN recently. Jim is now in Cincinnati with Procter & Gamble. Jim, please send your address along. 
BERNIE DWYER and his wife Sheila (Hayes) live in a suburb of Des Moines at 4217 75th St, Urbandale, Iowa 50322. He is also with G.E., and spends consid­erable time at Lennox, Ind., representing the Components Sales Div. in negotiations and applications work. The Dwyers have an 11-year-oId daughter, Maiy Michelle. 
DAN CANNY moved from the engineering into the operations department of U.S. Steel in Chicago. Dan and Charlene (Unger) live at 12948 S. 78 Ct, Palos Heights, 111. 60463. The Cannys have five boys ages 16 to 7 yrs: Dan Jr., Joe, Tim, Tom and Teny. Dan may have a Reunion conflict; Chariene was graduated from SL Maiy's in 1951. 

Several issues ago we reported CARL EIFERT became press secretary for Sen. Proxmire. Their new address is 7409 Range Rd., Alexandria, Va. 22306. Two items from the Alumni office:! PAT BARRETT is a doctor, a general practitioner in Minneapolis. At the LSU game Pat reported he will attend the 20th reunion. BOB CASSIDY has been named Assoc. Prof, of law enforcement and corrections at the U. of Cincinnati, Ohio. He was probate officer in Washington, D.C., and Asst I'rof. at Sam Houston State College, Huntsville, Tex. 
By the time you receive this it will be only 316 months to Reunion. Lose five pounds a month and come at;your 1951 weight Some of us would be over­joyed just to get back to the w:eight shown on the last driver's license. Seems like yesterday—but it was June, 1956— that TOM KIGIN said, "Look; at those old guys, getting bald and chubby—^wonder how long they've been out?" Turned out it was their 20-year reunion. Whatever your shape, come back in June. 
Jim Jennings Borg-Wamer Corp. 200 South Michigan Ave. Chicago, III. 60604 
'52 REMEMBER! 
With the sweet taste of that Texas victory in our mouth, we are all resolving to turn over a new leaf and write our class secretary on what we are doing. Speaking of Texas and football, we are already starting plans for a get-together this fall after the ND-Southem Cal game. To refresh your memory, the Southern Cal game was the only "oops" on the '70 schedule. ND is losing only five players of the 22 who started at Dallas. So the weekend of Oct 23, 1971, should be reserved for a pre-72 reum'on. It should be a great game, with a great Friday pre-game rally, as the Irish will be really steamed up for this one. So save those dimes in a jar or cut down on the booze and butts—try to make it out for a great game. 
If you missed the '52 boys on TV (it was NBC First Tuesday, Dec. 1, 1970), it shows you're watching the wrong shows. LOUIS GLEASON, PAT NEVILLE (Alias Heywood Hale Broun), Fr. BILL TOOHEY and yours truly all gave their opinions on change at ND. All of us are anxiously awaiting calls from the talk-show people—David Frost, Johnny Carson, etc., but nothing has transpired yet 
DON SMITH, his wife and three children are holding down the fort at Fredonia, 
N.Y. Meanwhile, Don tramples the forests of upstate New York for lumber for his prosperous lumberyard in Batavia. He wiU give all ND men special discounts providing they play a good game of handball and love to drink a few beers. 
THOMAS J. BLAKELY, assistant pro­fessor of behavioral science at Nazareth College, Kalamazoo, Mich., recently gave the keynote address at a workshop on aging held in Cheboygan. His topic was "Planning for the Multitde Needs of Our Senior Citizens." Tom, who holds a master's degree in sociology from the U. of Michigan, lives in Grand Rapids with his wife and their six children. FRANK J. BOUSKA has been elected assistant V-P and manager of taxes for the First National Bank of Chicago. Frank, his wife Barbara, and their six children reside at 1631 Executive Lane, Glenview, 111. 
WilUam B. King 613 E. Donmoyer Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'53 WHY NOT WRITE? 
Received a note from JOHN B. LUX, who is Central Regional Manager of Bowater Sales Company, which devotes its efforts to newsprint sales. John has his ofBces at 69 W. Washington Street, in Chicago. He reports that BUD KOSSE is a partner in a Louisville, Ky., Ci'A firm and doing very well. Rev. JOHN MADDEN is now assistant director of the Cathoh'c Charities in Utica, N.Y. This is a social service agency apparently sponsored by the local diocese. Let's hear more from you, Fr. Madden. HANK MASSMAN of Kansas City wrote in early December with a promise of more complete information at a later date. Regrettably the cut-off date on the column got here before his com­munication did. There is an indication that he might even get the great GEORGE HIGGINS to sit down and write of his busy activities. Dr. PANOS D. BARDIS is a professor of sociology at Toledo U. and has been selected for a lisU'ng in the book entitled Ifho's Who in the World. Dr. Bardis authored a book. The Family in Changing Civilizations, which is now being published in its second edition. He is also active in the New York Academy of Sciences. He has been appointed chairman of the membership committee for the Institut International de Sociologie, Rome, Italy. Would like to hear more about this, too. Dr. BILL SANTORO is pracUcing psychiatry in Beverly Hills, Cal., as he has been for the last seven years. "Still a bachelor, and residing in Brentwood." He is extremely jolly over the television special produced on the national network about ND which rather compensates for the depths of his depression when men­tioning the ND-SC game. He got wet, we lost the game and he lost his money. He also reports that JOHN FLYNN is an ophthalmologist in Florida and John visited him in California recently. He inquired for Rev. GENE GORSKI CSC. Fr. BARTELL keeps promising that one of these decades Rev. Gorski will be back from France. Maybe the reunion in '73. BILL AHERN is a lawyer in Kings Park, N.Y., his home town. He is married and has four children and resides in Kings Park. Bill says that he is addicted to sailing to such an extent that he went down to the Virgin Islands in November and had a terrific time visiting an ND graduate named MIKE GIACINTO '62 who owns a resort called "Marina Cay." Maybe you can drum up a little enthusiasm for a class reunion in the Virgin Islands, Bill. J. J. O'TOOLE reports that Dr. JACK MADDEN is in the pediatric department at the Chicago School of Medi­cine and maintains an office in a less-privileged area of Chicago practicing pediatrics. J J. did not say anything about Jack Madden having a broken hand so that he couldn't write respecting some of his activities. 
Received a very fine letter from HARRY SICKLER who is a certified public 
Novilsky D'Rozario Newquist 
LaPeyre Morelli Whelahan 
Richard S. Novitsky '52 has received a promotion to the position of development manager of latex products for the Chemical Division of the General Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, Ohio. He had been production superintendent. 
Rev. Michael A. D'Rozario CSC '53, M.A. '54 was consecrated Dec. 13 as bishop of the Diocese of Khulna, East Pakistan. He was ordained June 10, 1953 at ND. Since 1967 he has been superintendent of schools, rector of the archdiocesan seminary and of Immaculate Conception Cathedral in Dacca. 
Harvey P. Newquist '55 former director of manufacturing at Data General Corp., Southboro, Mass., has been promoted to vice-president of manufacturing. He is expanding production capabilities for the firm's three new computers. 
Pierre A. LaPeyre '57 is the new manager of the electrical department for Delta Iron Works, Inc., Houma, La. He joined Delta, a subsidiary of Chromalloy American Corp., in 1967. His previous experience includes project engineering responsibilities with the Monsanto Co., and with Pona Engineers. 
Robert Moreiti '58 has been elected speaker of the California Assembly following his nomination for that post by his Democratic colleagues. Moretti, who resides in Van Nuys, was first elected to the assembly in 1964. 
Raymond J. Whelahan '59 has been advanced to Norfolk district sales manager for the Lone Star Cement Corp. Whelahan joined the firm as a salesman in 1961. He resides with his wife and their three children in Virginia Beach, Va. 
accountant in Tyrone, Pa. Harry was 

formerly with the accounting iirm of Price 
Waterhouse and contacted JIM KLINKE, 
associated with P. \V. Harry sees JIM 
"SNAKE" SMITH on his trips to Pitts­
burgh as well as his old roommate, 
FRANK TRAUTMAN, also in Pitts­
burgh. He ran into JACK POWERS 
at a party at Coach Parseghian's house 
after the Purdue game and reports that 

Powers is still nutty about golfing. Harry 
met JIM HUTCHINSON at a Serra 
International convention last year and 

reports that Jim and his wife Peggy have 
nine children (with them at the conven­
tion). Harry and his wife have six 
children. Harry also ran into DICK 

HARVEY going to church in Elkhart, Ind. 
The class as a whole is extremely pleased 
that both Harry and Dick are stUl 
going to church. 

Heard from DAVE O'LEARY, the Lansing, Mich., paint and wallpaper baron. Dave and his wife have recently acquired a very large, older home that they had been coveting for many years. He reports that it is sufficiently large to accommo­date a class gathering before and after the next Michigan State game played in Lansing. Upon interrogation, he hesitated to give the address but I am certain he will be in the phone book when we all arrive, 900 strong. He said that JIM O'BRIEN has retired from the sewer cleaning business and was at the time somewhat indecisive about his next vocation. Apparently Jim and his wife have just had another youngster. Why don't you drop me a note, Jim, and let us know the details? 
The above and foregoing represents every bit of conmiunication and all corre­spondence I have received from our class. The repeated pleas for notes and cards respecting your activities are for "real." I appreciate those that have taken the time to drop me a note and genuinely hope that the materials as subsequently incor­porated within the column enable the writers to meet and be with, or at least hear from, ND friends with whom they have previously been out of touch. The initial zeal with which I approached the task of authoring this column has just about been depleted because of the lack of interest in its continuance except by a very few. I just cannot believe you all couldn't do better. 
John T. Mulvihill 645 First Bank Bldg. South Bend, Ind. 46601 


'54 AMEN! 

The Class of 1954 congratulates the 1970 Fighting Irish football team, their captains, Jim Kelly and Larry DiNardo, and their Coach Ara Parseghian and his staff on their season and the fantastic Cotton Bowl victory. Hooray! Period! Amen! 
Milton J. Beaudine 21 Signal HiU Blvd. E. St Louis, 111. 62203 


'55 FOR •REVENGE BOWL' 

This year's class cocktail party will be held at the Morris Inn after the "Revenge Bowl" with us e on Oct. 23. You'll be 
able to bend elbows with a good group, 
such as these illustrious fellows who 
attended last year's shindig—GEORGE 
ROONEY, TOM ARMSTRONG, BILL 
REALE, JOE DALEY, STEVE REBORA, 
JIM BROUGHTON, ROY BELKNAP 
(and a couple of his daughters), JIM 
CAHILL, JACK MURRAY (stUl a tough 
Marine and on the lookout for BOB 
FLEMING), FRANK MAIER, FRANK 
LOLLI, JIM HESBURGH, JACK 
FLYNN, PAT PASQUALE, DICK 
BURKE, DICK CALLAHAN, JERRY 
BRANSFIELD (who just evened things off 
at three and three with the arrival of 
CoUeen Ann), TOM GALLIGAN, JERRY 
PRASSAS, JOHN WEITHERS, FRANK 
BURKE, JERRY HILLSMAN, BUCKY 
JANSSEN (who buys out the bookstore 
every year), MIKE KELLY, LOU 
ZEFRAN, BERNIE McCLOREY, JIM 
GRIFFIN and JERRY GROARK. 
DAVE METZ made the scene earlier for 
the Northwestern game. RUSS TOOHtY 
rocked his. neighbors with a pre-NU 
party that saw his guests parading down 
the street behind a group of bagpipers. 
JOE HEAP really suffered for 55 minutes 
in the LSU game before the Irish pulled it 
out. His southern friends were barbecuing 
him very nicely. 
Rev. JOE O'DONNELL checked in from Bethesda Naval Hospital with a fev/ news items. A Southern Baptist chaplain friend of his reports that JOHN ROGERS and "a few friends" have purchased the Wynnwood State Bank in Dallas. John is prexy. Joe had a long visit with Rev. JIM SHERER, who is teaching this year at Bishop McNamara High School in suburban Washington after several years in overseas missionary work. In the ecumenical spirit, Joe is polishing his handball game at the Jewish Community Center and promises to give TOM CAREY a better series at the next reunion. He also promises to look up CHUCK BEN­NETT, CHARLIE KLEE, and JOHN SLAVICK one of these fine days. If he doesn't call you, guys, why not give him a ring? 
BOB PHILLIPS wrote to say that he had been elected vice president of the Rinfret Fund and the Rinfret Management Co. The Rinfret Fund, located in New York, is a small, diversified-growth fund utilizing "Dr. Rinfret's political-economic input." "Believe me," Bob adds, "it works since the average of all mutual funds is down 15 percent while our fund is up IVi percent." DON "THE CZAR" SHANLEY of fourth-floor Badin fame checked in from Iowa, where he now is the owner of the Dubuque Yacht Basin. RAY KENNEDY might beheve that "The Czar" owned a yacht basin, but possibly in Cuba where he could make use of the many secret codes he developed at ND. Don had to miss the reunion, but hopes to drive into Chicago for some of the "Organization '55" meetings this year. Give me a buzz for the date of the next meeting if you're in the area. Talked to GUY PIERCE the other day. He recently moved to Chicago as director of executive development for Sears, Roebuck. His wife, Pat, is the sister of LOU CENTLIVRE. Guy mentioned that one of the priests in his parish in suburban Wheaton is our own Rev. JOHN RYAN. I guess it is a small world. 
Received a long letter from MIKE DAKIN (2876 Nutmeg St, San Diego), who is disabled with a serious blood disease. Mike is unable to work at this 

time, but puts his master's degree in 
psychiatric social work from the Catholic 
U. of America to work with emotionally disturbed people at a local day treatment center. Mike lives with a classmate, SAM SCHARBER, who has three children and teaches chemistry at Mesa College in San Diego. Sam received his Ph.D. in chemistry from the U. of Texas (where?) last year. I know both Mike and Sam would enjoy hearing from their many friends in the class. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Dr. 
Glenview, 111. 60025 

'55L MORE TO COME 
BOB MALEY wrote me a short note from 
Richmond, Ind., where he is a partner 
in the firm of Harrington, Gardner, 
Haworth and Maley, saying that he is 
reading the class article and hopes to have 
some information for me shortly. Nice 
to hear from you. Bob. 
The esteemed secretary of the Illinois State Bar Assn., BOB GEIMAN, writes that he is practicing law in Chicago with the firm of Peterson, Lowry, Rail, Barber and Ross. Bob presently holds a whole raft of administration responsibilities with the Illinois Bar Assn., too numerous to mention here. This type of public service is extremely important to lawyers and we are very proud of Bob for having attained such a high office. Bob is also active in the Chicago and American Bar Assn. and his practice is devoted mainly to trial and arbitration work. 
John P. Coyne 810 National Bank Bldg. Cleveland, Ohio 44114 

'56 FIFTEEN BIG ONES! 
It's only a few more months 'til Reunion. I hope everyone has reserved June 10 to 13. An added feature this year is housing with your former roommate if you wish. Keep this in mind. 
Space limitations prohibit mentioning all the fellows who attended our party in September after the Purdue game, but a few more were TONY CASTORINA, BILL GORHAM, MIKE DURR, RICHARD 
P. BROWN, BOB SALVING, ROBERT LECHOWSKI, AL BIERMANN, JOE HENNESSY, ROLLY BERNHOLD, GERALD BRANN, JOHN HUMMER, TOM MANN, JIM REVORD, DICK CROWLEY and JOHN BRODERICK. 
JOHN J. KELLY has been named executive dir. of manufacturing for Bell Aerospace Co., Buffalo, N.Y. John holds a 
B.S. from ND and an M.B.A. from St John's U. WALTER S. McNAMARA has been named vice-pres. and controller of the Puritan Sportswear Corp., in Altoona, Pa. 
THOMAS J. BEELER has been elected secretary of A-T-O, Inc., at Willoughby, Ohio. Tom resides with his wife and three children in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. 
JAMES E. STEIVATER has been ap­
pointed vice-pres.-finance of the New 
Britain Division of Litton Industries in New 
Britain, Conn. .After his M.B.A. at 
Michigan State U., John had served as a 
faculty member at Aquinas College in 
Grand Rapids, Mich. 
"Cousin" JOSEPH S. O'CONNOR, M.D. 
and family moved into their new home 
at 1200 Somerset Drive in Glenview, 111. 
How about that Cotton Bowl! 
Eugene P. O'Connor, 
668 EUicott Square Bldg. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'59 WHALE OF A TAIL 
JOHN WOLF is branch store supervisor 
for his family's 25-store retail furniture 
chain and serves as V-P for the company 
which covers a 100-mile radius of the 
Altoona, Pa., headquarters. John reports 
that he has four children (a son, 9, and 
three younger daughters) and also 
that his father passed away last September. 
Your prayers are requested for Mr. Wolf, 
for DENNY NEAD's mother (died Oct. 5) 
and for Jean Burden (died Sept. 27), 
the wife of Capt. JAMES D. BURDEN, 
USN. 
AL HARDING is a member of the Diocesan Pastoral Council in Evansville, Ind., and is active in the formation of the National Council of Catholic Laity. ED RICCIUTTI has written 'An Animal jor Alan, his second children's book about wild life. Ed, who is curator and public relations director for the New York Zoological Society, also wrote Catch a Whale by the Tail in 1969. Capt. RONALD H. BLAKE is a member of a unit that has earned the U.S. Air Force Outstanding Unit award for the fourth year. Ron is a data automation ofHcer in the 12th Tactical Fighter Wing at Phu Cat A.B., Vietnam, and earned an M.S. degree from Southern Methodist in 1969. JACK McGRATH was named a V-P of Booz-Allen and though living in Cleveland (20863 Famsleigh Road, 44122), seems to spend a great deal of business time in Puerto Rico. Jack and Mary Anne have three children, Moira, Meghan and Jay. LARRY WENTZ feels he might be leading the '59 class in number of children: Lou Ann is expecting No. 9 in June! JIM PETONIC sent Christmas greetings from Greensburg, Pa., where he is a diocesan priest. 
JIM REULAND has been selected to take part in Western Electric's highest level management education course, a 22-week training program. Jim has been assistant manager, personnel, on the staff of the company's manufacturing division with offices in Chicago's Civic Opera House, and he and Ellen Ann have four children. Katie and JIM KEEGAN have moved from Akron to Wilmington, Del. Jim is still with DuPont and is working in a new area of Market Development. ED ROHRBACH wrote from his Chicago Tribune office in Paris to let us know he certainly remembers our sophomore year in Badin. "Father Haley made me take down a little note I'd tacked up on the door saying, 'You Only Live Once, But Once Is Enough If You Play It Right.' MIKE PHENNER wasn't too happy about it either. Anyway, Paris isn't a bad place to try and carry out that philosophy." Ed was in the U.S. for a month's home 
leave and managed to attend the LSU 
and Southern Cal games. JOHN LEAHY 
served as toastmaster for the Communion 
Breakfast sponsored by the ND Club 
of Los Angeles the morning after the day 
we are still trying to forget. John 
worked closely with Ara during John's 
Law School years. 
BOB WILLIAMS, CHICK MARTIN 
and JAY JONES did another outstanding 
job for the ND Club of Dallas as the 
Irish returned triumphally to the Cotton 
Bowl. Our classmates (together with 
JOHN RONAN, the club president, and 
HUGH BRAY) are willing to "take a year 
off' and rent themselves and their tre­
mendous organizational efforts to the ND 
Club of Miami next winter! I was able to 
visit briefly in Dallas with DICK 
PHELAN (and his new bride, Clare), 
Katie and DICK TRANT, ERNIE 
THOMAS, JOE NEUHOFF and KEN 
BOONE. Dick and Clare flew down from 
Chicago, the Trants ditto from Boston, 
and Ernie came over from Jackson, Miss., 
where he is active with the local alumni 
club and has recently designed an ND 
alumni window decal which will soon be 
available to all alumni clubs. In Ernie's 
"spare time" he designs and manufactures 
men's shirts. Joe Neuhoff, as you 
remember, is a Dallas native, and is with 
the family meat processing business. Ken 
Boone moved from Louisville to Dallas 
a few years ago. 
Other classmates continue to move around the country. If you are in any of the following areas, you might want to check on some of these guys: San An­tonio: JOE KLEIN; Salinas, Calif.: DENNIS POWELL; Bethesda, Md.: Capt. JOHN A. FOX; Ann Arbor: JIM LANGFORD; St. Helens, Ore.: FRED LEO COONAN, Jr.; Los Altos, CaUf.: ERNIE NIEDBALA; Green Bay: Dr. BILL CROSS; Pascagoula, Miss.: JIM (James N.) SULLIVAN; Bowie, Md.: JIM BAZANY; Brillion, Wis.: TOM LOPINA; Rochester, N.Y.: JOHN Mc-CRANK; Memphis: GENE SAXON; Philadelphia: BILL TOUSSAINT; Ottawa Hills, Ohio: Dr. TOM ABOWD; Ariing­ton: JOHN MARTIN MALONEY; Akron: BILL McMAHON; Hacienda Heights, Calif.: PAUL BYDALEK; SUoam Springs, Ark.: RICHARD SESSLER; Foster City, Calif.: CHRIS WALSH; Prospect Heights, 111.: GEORGE CLEM­ENTS; Clinton, N.Y.: JOHN BURDICK; Racine, Wis.: BILL WHALEY; Andover, Mass.: DICK KATIS; Rye, N.Y.: BILL McCULLOUGH; Indianapolis: DAN MUTH; Flossmoor, 111.: JOE HIGGINS; Mountain View, Calif.: BOB GEISE; and Wailuku, Maui, Hawaii: BOB WIXTED. 
Joseph P. Mulligan 
Box 99 Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'61 COMING HOME AGAIN 
Thomas Wolfe said it can't be done. 
But the Class of '61 should be out to 
prove that you can come home again—and 
have a good time. I'm speaking, of course, of a return to the Campus for our 
10-year reunion on June 11, 12 and 13. Now's the time to start planning. Those of you who saw NBC's "First Tuesday" or read Sports Illustrated and the December issue of the ALUMNUS know that changes have been made in the life of 
students on campus over the last 10 years. 
Many of the seeds of change were idanted, 
if you recall, during our senior year. 
Come back and see what you 
hath wrought! 
Some have already been back to con­
gregate at the general reunions in the ACC 
after home football games. JOHN PIDICK 
and JOHN BIRD (now John Bird, MX>.) 
and wives were here for the Army game. 
Both live in the Chicago area. 
After the LSU game, DICK BILLEAUD, 
all the way from Louisiana, stopped by. 
He's entered law school there. Also 
at the '61 gathering was PAUL FLEMING 
from Cleveland. BILL SOULE, from 
Florida, stopped in the Alumni Office 
briefly before the Georgia Tech game. By 
the looks of his suntan, he hasn't been 
letting his golf game get rusty. 
Up here in antifreeze country, I ran into 
JIM DETTLING and JERRY KEARNS 
at a social gathering of the ND-SMC 
clubs of St. Joe Valley. Jim, a stock­
broker, is trying to get over last year's 
happenings on Wall Street, which he 
describes as a "humbling experience." 
Perhaps it boosted his spirits a little when 
he was named to the board of directors 
of the local ND club. BRIAN REGAN 
was elected secretary of the club. Jerry 
Keams was celebrating his promotion to 
executive vice-president of the St. Joseph 
Bank & Trust Co. of South Bend, one 
of the city's largest financial institutions. 
Word has reached this office that 
CHARLES QUINN has passed his Ph.D. 
exam in symbolic logic. He earned an 
M.A. in 1963. He works as a marketing representative for IBM and his wife, Judy, will receive her B.A. from SL Mary's in May. The couple have two children and live at 3289 Colony Ct., Mishawaka, Ind. 46544. Maj. GUY P. DEROSA, M.D., is stationed at Nellis AFB, Nevada. He is an orthopedic surgeon with the 57th Tactical Hospital. WILLIAM C. BART­LETT Jr. and family—^including their daughter, Jacqueline Louise, bom Sept 14 —^have moved to 338 Queens Ct, Ridgewood, NJ. Bill works for RCA. The Bartletts have three other children, two girls and a boy. 
One more pitch for the Reunion. Traditionally, the 10-year class has the greatest number of returnees for class get-togethers. In this matter, let us be traditionalists. 
TIM HUGHES, standing in for: 
Bill Hennegan 
30556 Scrivo Dr. Warren, Mich. 48092 

'62 OUTSTANDING AIRMANSHIP 
Since I'm composing this only a few days after the Cotton Bowl, I will resist the temptation to relate to that magnificent event except to envy those who attended. 
The new year brings the following informaUon: Capt FRANK MOORMAN has received his seventh award of the Air 
Medal for outstanding airmanship and 
courage as the navigator on a recon­
naissance aircraft Frank has served 12 
months in Vietnam. MIKE DUNIGAN is 

taking full credit for all of Frank's awards. Said he taught him everything about combaL DAVE SCALISE has been trans­
ferred from the Michigan division to 

the National division of the commercial loan department at Detroit Bank and Trust. 
Received a phone call the other day from JOE ECHELLE who is living in Houston and working as the supervisor of Radio and Television for the AstroWorld Corporation. Joe helped produce the Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl on New Year's Eve and then scurried to Dallas the next day for the Cotton Bowl. The "father of Notre Dame soccer" previously was the business manager for the ill-fated Houston professional soccer team before assuming his present position under Judge Roy H. I am sure Joe would love to see you if you are ever at the AstroDome. MIKE GUARNIERI is an assistant professor in the neurology department of Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore. Mike's wife Susan is a physician and directs the city's handicapped children's program. They have two children. PAUL LAMBOLEY writes from Reno after reading about the large number of classmates living in California. Paul, a lawyer, is inviting any and all members of the class to consider assisting the economy of Nevada by way of gambling and other activities through a junket to the Lake Tahoe area for a mild, minor reunion. 
MIKE HART informs me that MARK GOLDSMITH is alive and well and working in the family lumber business in Mahnomen, Minn. Mark can be reached by writing in care of General Delivery in that metropolis. Mike is the manager of the business management department for Ford in Teterboro, NJ. PETE HYLAND is in his 9th year of teaching at Port Richmond High School on Slaten Island, 
N.Y. A former Glee Cluber, Pete is now directing a 30-man Barber Shop chorus on Staten Island. He would like to hear from HAROLD HUECKER and STAN KIESELEWSKI. 

TONY BILL after appearing in numerous screenplays and television shows is entering film production. He is co-producing a play by Terry Malick called "Deadhead Miles," for Paramount Pictures. DON CRIQUI, who is the sports director of WOR in New York City recently told me that JOHN DEARIE is practicing law at the United Nations. Let me hear from you John about the details. Heard from EDDIE SCHNURR who is in Dallas and expecting his sixth child. Is that a record for our class? Let me know if anyone has topped that. BOB BARTHOLOMEW who was teaching at Northern Illinois has joined the faculty at Cornell in Ithaca, N.Y., where he is teaching design in the School of Fine Arts. Am pleased to announce that" BARRY MAHER is now a neighbor of mine. Barry and Mary have just recently moved here from Birmingham, Ala., having been transferred by AT&T. CHARLIE DIGIOVANNA has been appointed manager of sales planning in Panasonic's Home Appliance Division. Dr. DAVID HENNY is now with the U.S. Navy Medical Corps in DaNang, Vietnam. LL Cmdr. Henny will return to Milwaukee on completion of his tour of duty and 
continue his residency in Neurosurgeiy at 
Milwaukee County General Hospital. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield Street Bethesda, Md. 20034 

'62L TRAVELING SECRETARY 
Marge and 1 had the pleasure of traveling out to Grand Rapids and staying with JIM and Nancy GOULD in their new house over the ND v. LSU weekend. Nancy was the perfect hostess and we had quite a time. JIM and Mary STUCKO and their sons, Stephen and Jimmy—"beloved Erin" did not make the trip, came in also and stayed with us. Over the weekend I had a chance to visit Jim's mushrooming firm in Grand Rapids. He handles mostly workmen's compensation trial work throughout Michigan and is quite satisfied with his very active practice which sees him trying up to five cases a week. After the game, which was a defensive battle and ended up with ND on top by a field goal, we all went over to JOHN COSTELLO's modem apartment which is set in a very attractive, hilly section in South Bend. There, we warmed up over some hot-buttered rum served by John, who is one of the stalwarts at Associates in South Bend, wife, Mary, and little red-headed son, John, Jr. PAUL DRISCOLL was there. He flew in from Montana where he was conducting an appraisal of the federally financed legal assistance offices. He has been doing so throughout the country for the last several months and expects to be completed by January, just in time to get in a month or so of skiing in the Alps. Previously, Paul was very active in Caesar Chavez' grape boycott in California. 
For the week between Christmas and New Year's we had the opportunity to travel to Fort Lauderdale and spend the week boating along the inland water route. In Palm Beach JOHN and Jeannie DELL joined us for a m'ght. They have three children and John has a very active general practice "with a lot of civil litigation" in his 15-man law firm in West Palm Beach. John gave us a tour of his firm which has grown so much lately that they have had to buy an adjoining home to house their accounting department. We also had the pleasure of visiting several of the more established watering spots in Palm Beach and had quite a time with the Dells. Unfortunately, we missed seeing KEVIN and Fran LYONS who live with their three children in Fort Lauderdale. I did however manage to give Kevin a ring on New Year's Day. He said that he has been doing a lot of real estate and corporation work and was quite happy with Fort Lauderdale. The Lyons children are 9, 8, and 6. Both John and Kevin expressed interest in a reum'on and I thought that I might mail out a questionnaire within the next few months to all the members of the class to ascertain their feelings with respect to such a get-together. 
JIM GOETHALS says that all is going well and that Sophie is expecting her sixth child. BOB COX and I got together in January and diagnosed—with glee— the Texas victory. Bob has been handling a good deal of merger-acquisitions work lately at Baker and McKenzie in New York. 
Paul K. Rooney 
Rooney & Robinson 
60 East 42nd Street 
New York, N.Y. 10017 

'64 NEWS OF MANY 
RAY and Mimi WEINMANN have four children and live in a suburb of Philadelphia. JIM HOVE is in the tax department of Lybrand Ross Bros, in New York City and living in Long Island. He is enrolled in the MBA program at Long Island U. and has already received his law degree. DENNIS O'BRIEN started a new law firm with two partners in southern New Jersey. BOB BURGFECHTEL received his MD following graduation and then spent two years as a flight surgeon in the Air Force. He is now in private practice as a general practitioner in Menomonie, Wise. PALPH KENT is completing his doctorate in biostatistics at Harvard. He and his wife, Kathleen, live in Boston and have one child, Sarah Ann. MIKE GLOCKNER, SCS is working in a new parish in Lafayette, La. 
GEORGE NOVAK is mth Coca-Cola in Atlanta doing acquisition and new venture work. He received his MBA from Wharton in May. BOB TANZOLA is with General Motors Corp. and has been transferred to GM de Venezuela. He and his wife, Karen, have two boys and live outside Caracas. JOHN and MARK OBERHAUSEN both live in TeU City, Ind. John is with Tell City Chair Co. and Mark is with General Electric Tube Division there. JIM GALLIGAN is with Standard Oil in Chicago and recently returned from a short term assignment in the Far East. WA-^NE VILLEMEG is completing his Ph.D. in Sociology at the U. of Texas. TOM SULLIVAN has moved to Milwaukee. He formerly had lived in Chicago and was with Beverly Bank there. Also with Beverly Bank is BILL O'HEARN who is marketing manager. MIKE NORTON is with Halsay-Stuart in Chicago and also there is PAT O'MALLEY with Time, Inc. TOM ERASER and family are living in Munster, Ind. and Tom is doing sales work with the family advertising and sales promotion firm. LARRY COSTILOW is teaching and coaching in Prairie du Rocher, 111. He is completing a MS in Elementary Education at Southern 111. U. JIM PEXA has a research fellowship at Washington U. (St. Louis) and is studying Electrical Engineering. He and his wife spent 1966-68 with the Peace Corps in Santiago, Chile. JIM LA BARBA is a CPA with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Co. in Newark, NJ. TERRY KOLLMAN is Los Angeles sales manager of Tele Rep, a division of Chris-CrafL ANTONIO RODRIGUEZ is working for the Commissioner of Puerto Rico in Washington, D.C. He and his wife have one boy. JOHN NOLAN is a reporter for the Wilmington NeH's. CARY NOLAN is director of international operations with Cheshire (a Xerox Company). JIM BRILL is a resident anesthesist at Milwaukee County Hospital. 
JIM PINI is teaching English at Sharon High School, Norwood, Mass. TOM MONAHAN was transferred to Cincinnati by Procter and Gamble. Tom is in promotion and merchandising. BOB WIECZOREK is a sem'or staff member of Lybrand Ross in New York. JOE SPIELER is VP-Rnance with D. H. Blair 
and Co. in N.Y.C. TOM O'BRIEN is in 
Philadelphia as a special agent for the 
Naval Investigative Branch. Dr. PAUL 
S. FOX has moved to Wauwatosa, Wis. He graduated from Marquette School of Medicine in 1968, interned at the U. of Chicago Hospital and is now in his second year of residency in general surgery at Marquette. He is married to the former Susan Pettinger. They have four children. 
STEPHEN J. CULLITON, a senior financial analyst for United States Gypsum Co., has been admitted to the bar in Illinois. He is a graduate of the John Marshall Law School, Chicago. DONALD 
L. KRINER, a registered pharmacist in Indiana, has joined Eli Lilly and Co., as a sales representative in Rock Island, 
111. Since graduation at ND he has received a B.S. in pharmacy from Butler U., Indianapolis, Ind. EDWARD L. NORTON has been named controller of Highland Hospital, Rochester, N.Y. ROBERT C. GAERTNER has been promoted to the academic rank of assistant prof, at the Lake Superior State College. He recei\?ed an M.B.A. from Michigan State U. JERRY BRADLEY has entered the commercial real estate business in the Dallas-Fort Worth area after attending graduate school at the U. of Texas and serving in the U.S. Navy. BRUCE S. TUTHILL has been named New England Regional sales manager of E. F. Hutton and Co. Inc. and is located in Boston. FRANCIS J. McCORMACK has been elected an assistant vice president of the Liberty Bank and Trust Co., Boston, and has been assigned as manager of Liberty's Allston, Mass., officS. He and his wife Jo-Ann have four children. 
Clay Stephens 
206 Marian Ave. 
Fanwood, NJ. 07023 

'65 GOOD REVIEWS 
LEE FOSTER has become an accomplished and prolific novelist His three novels, 
"The Message of April Fools," "Just 25 Cents and Three Wheaties Box Tops" and 
"In Search of Mexico" are published by Pacific Coast Publishers. All have had excellent reviews. Lee's works have been hailed as refreshing and dealing with the current generation. His second novel is augmented by numerous photographs done by himself. The April issue of Popular Photographer will review his photo book. 
BILL PREDEBON received his Ph.D. in Engineering Mechanics from Iowa State 
U. in November. Presently Bill is a 1st Lt. with the Army in Aberdeen, Md. His wife, Mary Ann, and he have two children, Nadine, VA and BiU Jr., VA. JACK CRARY is serving a first year residency in medicine at the U. of Michigan. His wife, Bonnie, had a son, Patrick William, in December. Tragically, though. Jack's brother. Bill, was killed in Vietnam last May after being drafted out of law school. 
Another confirmed bachelor has become engaged. BERNIE ZAHREN and Judy Bradeen who resides in Boston plan a wedding in the near future. Bernie is also planning to move from Pittsburgh to either Montgomery or San Francisco. In Jan. 1970 DON SCHUSTER earned a M.A. in Education from Northern Illinois 
U. He is teaching junior high math in Joliet, 111. and has a son, Kevin Donald, born in October. 
RAY McLAIN, wife, Suzie, and sons, 
Meeghan and David, have moved to 
the lake region of Ontario where Ray has 
accepted a position with the Ontario 
Assn. of Children's Aids Society. Ray writes 
that the region is beautiful and the work 
rewarding. THOMAS FRANCK is a 
medical sales representative for Eaton 
Laboratories and is assigned to a sales 
territory with headquarters in Binghampton, 
N.Y., where he makes his home with Sis 
wife and two sons. PAT MULLOY is 
one of the authors of a massive 
modernization plan report for the U.S. 
State Department. 
1st Lt. PAT FORD has completed a tour 
at Pensacola, Fla. and is now the legal 
aflair for the Naval Air Station in 
Key West. Pat reports that Florida life is 
too appealing to leave once his Navy 
tour is up. MIKE HAGGERTY was 
married in November at the Log Chapel 
to Nancy Healy. TOM HOGAN was 
the best man. Mike has accepted a 
position as director of public relations for 
the Oakland Athletics baseball team. 
He also reports that SEAN 
FITZMAURICE was married in October 
in Richmond, Va., where he plays for 
the Brave's farm team and TOM LONGO 
is playing regularly on the N.Y. Giants 
defensive team. PAUL RAY and his famify 
are living in Hartford, Conn, where 
Paul has been promoted to supervisor of 
support programs in the Agency 
Dept. of the Life Division, Aetna Life 
and Casualty. PAT WARD, employed by 
the firm of Aplon, Bennett, Alexander 
and Levine in Lyons, III., has been admitted 
to the Illinois Bar. 
VINCENT DALMONTE has been 
promoted to programming analyst in the 
computer and insurance services dept. of 
the Prudential Insurance Co., Newark, 
NJ. He and his wife, Bernadette, have 
one dauchter and reside in Red Bank. 
RONALD SCHUESSLER and his wife, the 
former Mary J. Dexter, are living in 
Midland, Mich. Their first child, Deborah 
Ann, was bom in August. 
ROBERT MARKEL is serving as instructor of political science at American International College, Springfield, Mass. He joined their faculty in SepL '69 and is working toward a doctorate in political science there. 
BILL DICKSON is still single and has moved to Memphis where he works for Arthur Anderson (CPA'S). JIM STOLZE is also still a bachelor and works in St. Louis with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. (CPA'S). Jim passed the CPA exam immediately after receiving his MBA degree from the U. of Michigan. 
James P. Harnisch, M.D. 3700 Buford Highway, Apt. 98 Atlanta, Ga. 30329 

'66 IN BIG D 
More news and notes about classmates. I ran into a number of '66ers in Big "D" for the Cotton Bowl festivities. JIM DENIG is teaching and coaching in Dallas and following the unhooking of the Horns has plenty of ammo to use on his Texas friends. Ditto for MIKE CAOLO who chaired the gigantic New Year's Eve bash for the Dallas ND Club. DENNY DUN­IGAN was also enjoying himself immensely as was PAUL SAUER down from 
Columbus. Paul is in the process of job-
hunting and says he's thinking about 
marriage. 
JIM MONG, now working in San 
Francisco, and JOHN McCANN, involved 
in a Marine hitch in Georgia, also helped 
celebrate the de-homing of Texas. BEN 
CAMPBELL, who I think just completed 
a service hitch, was on hand along with 
BOB PETRARO, MARTY BRUECKNER, 
now working in Dallas for American 
Airiines, and BOB LUETKEMEYER, whose 
younger brother is a hot football prospect 
out of Oklahoma City and may be joining 
Ara's forces in the future. There were 
probably others there and I know I saw 
more faces but can't come up with any 
more names at the moment. 
Former All American fencer JOHN 
BISHKO is now back on campus doing 
grad work and assisting coach Mike 
DeCicco with the fencing team. While on 
a recent junket to Florida I learned that 
TOM BORNHORST and his wife Margaret 
have just experienced all of the joys of 
having a child without the pain — by 
adoption. Congratulations are in order! 
JOE SOMMERS writes that he's planning 
on attending the reunion. Currently he 
works for the IRS in Washington. RON 
HELOW is living in Neptune Beach, Fla. 
and is involved in a small computer 
business with a law practice going on the 
side. 

CAP GAGNON of the ND Admissions 
Office has heard that LARRY ALLEN and 
LOU BARTOSHOSKY are now both 
MD's and are inteming in St. Louis. 
BARRY BARTH has relocated in Dayton 
and is working with a local TV station. 
DON BOUFFARD of our Athletic Dept. says he ran into JOE PAGERINO in Dallas and that Joe is planning on being married in May. On an earlier visit to Los Angeles for the us e debacle Don saw TIM KNIGHT, now attending grad school on the West Coast, JIM WALSH, still in the Navy at San Diego, and KEVIN O'NEILL, now working with American Airlines in NYC. 
Remember if you will JOHN O'HEARN's father who passed away in early January. Also keep in mind our June reunion. It's the weekend of June 11, 12 and 13. Monogram festivities and golf tournament take place on the 10th so all the jocks better come in a day early. 
If you've got any news forward it to class secretary DICK ANGELOTTI or myself. 
Tom Sullivan for Dick Angelotti 4260 Clausen Western Springs, 111. 60558 
'66L THE ROYAL TOUR 
BOB MURPHY and I drove to South Bend for the LSU game. STEVE SEALL gave us a tour of his plush o£5ces and hosted us-at the Indiana Club. JOHN GOTTLICK 
(new address: 6010 Four Lakes Ave., 
Lisle, 111. 60532) drove in from Chicago 
and spent several days with us. We 
spent most of our time at CLIFF and 
OTTO'S and were sony we did not 

see more people. We hope to see more in 
June when we come out for the Reunion. 
Each of you will soon receive a letter 

from me suggesting arrangements which I 
think we should make. Several people 

have asked whether wives will be coming 
with us, and the consensus is that 

they will be along. More details to follow. 
COOKIE and I are very pleased to receive so many cards and nice notes at Christmas. TOM PETERSON wrote that he and ROSS have been out of the Army for a little over a year. Ross is on the Legal Staff of Bendix Corporation. Each of the boys is still quite eligible in California. (Tom's address is: 1660 N. Berkeley Ave., Apt. 216, Pomona, Calif. 91768). 
BOB KRAUSE (new address: 32286 Auburn Dr., Birmingham, Mich. 48009) was precluded by a trial from making it to the LSU game, but reports that Terri and the two boys are doing fine. Bob is going tp be drafting standard jury instructions for the State of Michigan. DENNY DEE informs us that the fatal day is May 1, 1971. Let's all "shuffle up to Buffalo." I, for one, will believe it, when I see it. Etta MAXWELL wrote that SCOTTY is about to get out of the Marine Corps and is going to work for Waters, Fleer, Cooper & Gallagher, a law firm in Norristown, Pa. They bought a home in North Wales, Pa. (address: 1448 Cathy's Lane) and will be resident by the beginning of March. 
AL McKENNA sent a picture of Windy, and their three children. Al looks great, and is now in the private practice of law in Columbus with Alexander, Ebinger, Holschuh, Fisher & McAlister. Al is ready to handle all legal problems in Ohio. TOM HARVEY is "stiU fighting the great war" after a three-month vacation as a liaison officer in Sydney, Australia. According to Tom's letter he is now out of the Army, and just about back home. 
PAUL POLKING had tickets for the Cotton Bowl but Joan wrote that she did not know if they could go. They are house hunting in Charlotte, and becoming wedded to North Carolina. Received a very nice letter from Pat, Mike, Holly and JIM HAKES, who reminded me that Mike is now three, and that Holly was bom Jan. 22, 1970. Jim is now in the legal department of Libby, McNeill and Libby. He plans to attend the Reunion. 
The PAUL V. NIEMEYERS and STEPHEN A. SEALLS sent their usual nice pictures, and we received a nice note from Pat and MARTY CONWAY (address: 705 N. E. 3rd Avenue, Aledo, IlL 61231). Marty left the Marine Corps ih October, and is now in private practice in Aledo. We also received welcome cards from DIANE and MIKE MORUCCI, still resident in West Virginia, from ANNE and NORM MANDEL, MADGE and RAY STARMANN, JULIE and TOM KENNEY, JOHN GOTTLICK, BILL SANNEMAN and the HAUGHES. 
Keep JUNE 12 open and I will be in touch soon. 
Frank Gregory 5018 Woodland Way Annandale, Va. 22003 


'67 MAIL CALL 
What a way to start off the New Year— 
ND creaming Texas—and my fellow 
classmates keeping the mailbox fuU of 
newsworthy information. 
Uncle Sam is the backdrop for much of this period's correspondence. Writing from Korea, JOE CHEVARLEY informs me that after several months of intelligence tech school, the Air Force has found a home for him at Osan AFB which is 50 miles south of Seoul. Prior to his hitch Joe was working on his MA in government at the U. of Massachusetts. Joe wants to get together with any NDers in the area and would like to hear some news specificaUy from ED HULTGREN and ADRIAN REIMERS (get the hint you two!). 
Carolyn and JOHN JORDAN are the proud parents of a son, Michael Andrew, as of mid-Deceniber. John got a leave of absence from Fort Eustis, Va. just in time to share in the event. Pat and CHIP MALIK are in Honolulu, Hawaii where Chip is scheduled to finish up his remaining two years of a five-year stint with the Marines. TIM CREANY has finished foreign language school with Uncle Sam and is now stationed with the Marines on Okinawa. His wife Anne and son are residing in East Lansing, Mich. Upon graduation from training at Randolph AFB, Tex., 2nd Lt. RAYMOND W. SHEM has been assigned to Beale AFB, Calif., for flying duty with SAC. 
Another new voice in this column comes from PAUL ROCHE who finished with the Coast Guard as a Lt. (JG) in June and married the former Mame Roark (SMC '68) in July. They now reside in Washington, D.C. where Paul is pursuing his MBA at American U. From the "garden spot of Southeast Asia" (South Vietnam) GERRY BAMBRICK reports that he has been with Uncle Sam since September, 1969, at which time the "Green Machine" pulled him out of ND Law School and away from his fellow class-of-'67-mates, DICK FARINA, JOHN FREEMAN, JOE KANE and JOHN MEANY. Gerry extends an invitation for a get-together with anyone "visiting this part of the world." By the fall of 1971 Gerry plans to be back in law school to complete his final year. 
From Long Beach, Calif., DICK KINNEY reports that he and MIKE SMOLAK held a "wetting down party" together with JOE SMITH after their promotions to lieutenant in the Navy. The celebration must have been a good one because the next day Judy Smith presented Joe with their first child, Joe III. Dick and Mike are both stationed on the USS John Paul Jones. The Kinneys also received a surprise visit from' FRANK SCHLEICHER and Fr. LLOYD TESKE CSC. (You wiU recaU that Fr. Teske served as University chaplain and rector of Fisher Hall during our junior and senior years and is now located at the 
U. of Portland.) Frank Schleicher completed his stint with the Navy and is returning to the U. of Texas in Austin for his master's degree. As a final comment, Dick mentions that he and his wife Mary Lou are eagerly looking forward to the birth of their first child in July. 
Airman First Class JOHN J. 
lACONETTI has been named Outstanding First Term Airman in his unit at 

Sheppard AFB, Texas. As a specialist in 
education and training John has been 
assigned to the Medical Service School of 
the Air Training Command. The Da Nang 
Air Force Base is home, at least 
temporarily, for CapL CHARLES E. 
FEICHT who is a supply management 
officer with the Pacific Air Forces. Charles 
received an MS in logistics in 1970 at 
the Air Force Institute of Technology, 
Wright-Patterson AFB, Dayton, Ohio. First 
LL JOHN D. WALTERS is working 
toward an MS in civil engineering at the U. 
of Illinois. Recently John received the 
USAF Conraiendation Medal after duty as 
base chief of operations and chief of 
the program development branch at Nellis 
AFB, Nevada. ROBERT E. GORMAN 
who has just completed two years of duty 
in the Army (eleven months in Vietnam), 
has joined Shell Oil Company as editor 
of TCP Times, an employee newspaper. 
Bob and his wife live in Chicago. 
From the West Coast we hear that Lt. 

ROBERT A. VARQUEZ has been assigned 
to March AFB, Calif, to fly aerial 
refueling aircraft with SAC. Capt. PHILIP 
J. WILLIAMS teUs us he has been attending the Air University Squadron Officer School at Maxwell AFB, Ala. Another captain, JAMES S. HOCH is serving with the Army's Manpower Management Section in Washington, D.C. Prior to his assignment, Jim was in charge of an inspection team in Korea. From Clark AFB in the Philippines, Lt. WILLIAM L. BERGEN reports that he is assigned to the 774th Tactical Airlift Squadron as a navigator. CLETUS R. WILLEMS has been commissioned a 2nd Lt. in the USAF Reserve Officers Training Corps at the U. of Wisconsin Law School where he has also received his JD degree. 
Jack Buttler 
4023 Elaine PI. So. 
Columbus, Ohio 43227 

'67L CRYBSG CAPTAIN 
We had the pleasure of seeing the HARGROVE family over Thanksgiving. JOHN, Jane and David were in New York to see John's parents before they headed for San Diego. We watched the So. Cal. game on TV. It was the first time I had seen a Marine captain cry. 
Looking back over some old columns I do not see that I ever mentioned the birth of Courtney EUzabeth COUCH to Carol and JACK. It occurred on May 13, 1970. Speaking of old announcements, JERRY BERTHOLD wrote and menUoned he and Margaret had a son, Jeffrey, in May 1970. Everyone says he looks just like his daddy. Well, maybe Jeffrey will be rich. They are living at 278 Meadowood PI., Decatur, Ga. 30034. Jerty is associated with Gettle, Jones and Eraser in Atlanta. BILL ALBRIGHT let me know that DAVE HOLMES was elected prosecutor of Marshall County, Ind. He ran ahead of his ticket and did it by covering almost the whole county door-to-door. Of himself. Bill says: "nothing exciting .. . we try some lawsuits and settle the rest." 
ART SWIRTZ '64, '67L writes his new addition is Matthew on Sept. 30. Barb and he have two others, Michael and Marc. Art, as reported, is with the U.S. attorney's office working out of Flint and Bay City. He's doing both civil and criminal work. He also mentions that the MONTEROSSOS are expecung their 4th baby in the spring. JIM MOLLISON wants to remind the class that he's only 10 miles from South Bend and would like those passing through to give him a call. He and Germaine celebrated the birth of their second son, Robert Alan in October. 
Jim Heinhold 
16 Morris Rd. East Haven, Conn. 06513 

'68 FAMILY NEWS 
KEVIN and Hlen KADE have added another member to their brood with the addition of Cassady Anne. Kev is with Security Pacific National Bank and is soaking up all that sun and smog in Los Angeles. I received a letter from BILL HEIDEN who is assigned to the Third Naval District and is engaged to Miss Laura Waters. Bill informs us that HAROLD "Panda" CLARK is attached to the 224th Aviation Batallion, Vietnam. A change of address for 1st Lt. TOM CURTIN. Tom is now at Inchon Depot, Kre. Pacex, APO SF 96571. 
Congratulations to our class president, MIKE MINTON, on his marriage to the former Miss Mary Bramlage on Nov. 28, 1970 in Maderia, Ohio. 
2nd Lt. BILL BETZ, of Senior Bar fame, is stationed with SAC at Westover AFB, Mass. Congratulations to BILL O'NEIL JR. on his appointment as operations manager of WAKR television 23 at Akron, Ohio. Bm worked at WSND and WSBT-TV while at Notre Dame. He is married to the former Miss Ann Cannon and they have one son William J. III. 
I hope everyone enjoyed the holiday season and let's keep those letters coming. 
I received a letter from MIKE JORDAN just as I was closing out this column. He has been storing up information regarding fellow classmates whom he has seen or heard from during his tenure in the Alumni Office. He assures me that in the future, he will be much more communicative in the matter of reporting news about our classmates. Only time will tell! Mike writes that JOHN KAMP and his bride of 4'/4 months (the former Susan Hoyt) are living happily in West Branch, la. John is doing graduate work at the U. of Iowa, concentrating in college development studies. JOE LEE and his wife, Nadyne (SMC '68), are the proud parents of a new son, bom October 16, 1970. They live in Lexington, Ky., where Joe is presently involved in his second year of medical school at the 
U. of Kentucky. BILL MATTURRO is in the Army, stationed in South Vietnam, and although he began his tour of duty as a medic, he is now an English teacher in an Army language school in Saigon. He will be discharged within a couple of months and will be back in the States. JOHN RIVERS is another of our compatriots who is still marking time as an Army ofiicer in the Mekong Delta of South Vietnam. Although John normally would have been transferred back to the States last August after completing one year of duty in Vietnam, he extended for six months duty within the war zone, and he is scheduled for discharge in March. He plans to re-enter Graduate 
Smith Burke McKenna 
John C. Hirschfeld '58, 61L won a seat in the Illinois House of Representatives in the November election. Hirschfeld, a Champaign attorney, will represent his state's 48th district which includes Cham­paign, Douglas and Moultrie Counties. 
Joseph P. Albright '60, '62L, an attorney in Parkersburg, W.Va., has been elected to the West Virginia State legislature. He ran on the Democratic ticket. 
Jerome B. Keams '61, of the St. Joseph Bank & Trust Co., of South Bend, Ind., has been elected the bank's executive vice-president. He heads the bank's commercial division and serves as chairman of its policy and practices committee. 
Arthur C. Smith HI '63 is the new district manager in the Chicago metropolitan area for PBP, a nationwide consulting firm serving the dental, medical and optometric professions. Smith and his wife, Judith, live in Glenview, 111. 
Edward L. Burke '65 has been elected to the Massachusetts State Senate. He resides at 1321 Worcester Rd., Apt. A-6, Framingham, Center, Mass. 01701. 
Thomas F. McKenna '68 has been chosen 1970 Coach of the Year, Cross Country, by the Ohio River Valley Conference. He is in his second year as head coach at Shawe Memorial High School, Madison, Ind., and plans to return to ND this fall to study law. 
School at the U. of Maryland and complete his work for a master's degree in political science. 
A post-game reunion for the Class of 1968 is being planned, tentatively, for Oct. 2, 1971, immediately following the Michigan State-ND football clash. Plan on attending! 
Leonard J. Pellecchia 259 N. 17th St Bloomfield, NJ. 07003 


'68L NEWS IS GOOD 

Not very much to report this time around, but what little news there is is good news. JIM. and Mary Kay WIRTZ announced the arrival of James Francis on November 13. The baby weighed in at 7 lbs., 4'/4 oz. According to Jim, his son is the most handsome and intelligent baby he has ever seen and looks just like his father. It's amazing how many of these outstanding children the members of our class have had. The Class of 1968's famous Texas Marine is back in the States. BOB BELLUOMINI writes that he is now stationed in Quantico, Va. Bob was in Vietnam for a time and followed that with a seven-month stay in Iwankum", Japan. From Japan, it was back to the South, where Bob is head of the administrative discharge section. Although he found his stay overseas interesting, for some reason he felt that Christmas back home was more enjoyable than Christmas in Vietnam. Bob has one more year with the Marines before he goes back home. Speaking of going home, TIM WOODS has somehow managed to finish his tour of active duty earlier than expected and is back home in Niles, Mich. He is working for Jones, Obenchain, Johnson, Ford, and Pankow in South Bend. Tim was supposed to be on active duty for two years but managed to get out after only completing 14 months. I've got to ask him how he managed that. FRANK SMITH is back in California, but that is all 1 know. The only thing he wrote on his Christmas card was his name. At least that's something. I managed a visit with LARRY and Kathie MILLER not too long ago. They and Erin are doing fine. Larry is really enjoying his work. Although offered the opportunity to go with the state government at a nice salary, he declined in favor of staying where he is. Looks like even Larry is becoming part of the establishment I also managed to get together with TOM CURTIN while at the Millers'. Tom hasn't changed. He enjoys working in Boonton and is doing a lot of lecturing at the local high school. 
That's it until next month. 
Dennis C. Thelen 7816 Lisa Drive, Apt 202 Norfolk, Va. 


'69 HEAVY MAIL 
The volume of mail over the last two months has been tremendous. 

STEVE CASSETTA writes that he is expecting his MBA from Syracuse U. this January. He is engaged to Joyce Kenny SMC '69 with plans to be married in June. He reports his ex-roomraate BOB PLAIN is married (Kathy) with a year-old daughter. Bob is working with C. R. Bard 
3« 

Inc. and attending Seton Hall nights for an MBA. CHUCK SEGHERS' wife Beth lets us know they are in Budingen, Germany, courtesy of the U.S. Army. Jim (as Beth calls him) should have received his first lieutenant bars in January. They inquired as to the whereabouts of MIKE GREENE and his wife, Adrianne, and RAY CASTEN who should be married by now to Marty of South Bend. FORD COLE is an officer on the USS Ticonderoga out of San Diego with plans to go overseas everywhere but Vietnam. Such a deal! While in the Navy he has run into DAVE PRUSIECKI on the USS Prime. JIM LYONS on the USS Duluth, JIM MILLER on the USS St. Paul, and BILL SULLIVAN on a destroyer out'of San Diego. STEVE KlRBVs note said he and his wife Martha are proud parents a second time with a baby girl bom Nov. 17. Steve is working as an internal auditor with Western Electric in Kearny, NJ. while going for an MBA at Seton Hall. CHRIS DEE writes he received his MBA from Loyola in August Chris is still buying and selling cars for a hobby. In a P.S. he recommends marriage for everyone "at least once or twice." 
RIP McCOY was written up in the Eagle Times of Reading, Pa. upon graduation at Laredo Air Force Base. Rip received his silver pilot wings, the outstanding graduate award for being in the top 10 per cent of his class, the silver trophy for being the outstanding pilot in proficiency flying, and the silver cup, air command commander's trophy as the most outstanding graduate in the class. Congratulations, Rip, on all that silver. The rumor from Hawaii is CHAD LOVE is in love. Yes, I know it's hard to believe. More details in a later issue. JOHN HAIRE is currently working as a busboy in Honolulu while attempting to get his master's degree .. . in order to qualify him to be a waiter???? JIM WALSH wrote that he is in his second year of med school at the U. of Michigan with JON TOCKS, DAVE BLAHA and PAUL FREITAS. HENRY WYMBS is in his second year of med school at Buffalo. MIKE HEMLER is in a co-op program with Bell Lab in New Jersey as he goes for a master's degree in EE at Columbia. Jim's letter also included the very sad note that TOM HANAGAN, commissioned NROTC, married last August was killed on Nov. 16th in a plane crash upon leaving the aircraft carrier Forrestal. Our deepest sympathy goes to Tom's wife, Carole, and his family. 
Christmas notes also informed us that GREG SCOTT has been with the Peace Corps in West Africa (Sierra Leone) since September '69. JOE McDONOUGH is in a combination MBA/JD program at ND. AL LUTZ received his MBA from 
U. of Pittsburgh last summer and is now working as a "sales/marketing trainee" with PPG Industries, Glass Division. At the time of the letter, Al was expecting to be conveniently transferred to a new assignment in Dallas shortly before the Cotton Bowl. FRANK CARR and his wife Jacqueline are the happy parents of a baby boy, Sean David, bom Nov. 28. Since graduation Frank has been emt^oyed by New Jersey as a State Bank Examiner. GEORGE TARRANT spent six months as a plant chemist with Feddeis Corp. of Edison, NJ., before he was drafted into the Marine Corps. George completed his routine at Parris Island, S.C. 
and Camp Lejeune, N.C. before attending 
Field Radio Operators school in San Diego. 
Since July, George has been stationed 
at Cherry Point, N.C. 
JIM SLATTERY is working for the 
U.S. Patent Office in Arlington, Va. as well as attending law school at the U. of Baltimore. RICHARD DUERR is attending law school at the U. of Louisville. He was chosen to represent the law school in this year's National Moot Court competition. He is also on the staff of the Journal of Family Law which is pubUshed by the law school. JOHN RANK writes that he is now in his second year of law school at Stanford. John was married last July to Miss Linda Prasil. ROGER McCAULIFF and his bride of last June, Janis Karbowski, are now residing in Marlboro, Mass. Roger is employed as a systems analyst at State Mutual Life Assurance of Ajnerica. 

On a final note let me mention some recent military assignments. Second Lt PETER SULLIVAN will be flying with the SAC out of Beale AFB, Cal. Second Lt. CARL RUBNER will be flying C-130 Hercules cargo/troop carrier aircraft with TAC out of Forbes AFB, Kan. Second Lt LARRY LOEFFLER has been assigned to Phan Rang Air Base, Vietnam, for flying duty in a C-123 Provider cargo/troop carrier with the 315th Tactical Airiift Wing. Second Lts. TERRY TRENT and TERRY GILLESPIE will be flying the F-4 Phantom fighter bomber with the TAC out of George AFG, Cal. Gillespie and his wife Kathy have an infant daughter Colleen. Second L t JON MATURI has been assigiied to Ramey AFB, P.R. for flying duty with the MAC. BERRY CANNON probably has it best of all employed in research physics at F t Monmouth Army Base while living in the Pleasure Bay Apts., Long Beach, NJ. This column is long enough without my mentioning all the '69ers I saw at the LSU game last November. Let me just thank GREG DOWNES and AL KNAPPENBERGER for the use of their apts. and the provision of liquid refreshments in an attempt to gather our class together. An excellent party, only hazily remembered the next day. Also, I haven't forgotten those letters JOHN KENEFICK and ERNIE GARGARO promised to forward. (It is very likely neither remembers offering at tlie Faculty Club after the game.) 
It only takes a minute to jot a note to keep us posted as to your whereabouts and what you know of the other *69ers. (It may take even less time to ask your wife to do it) Pax vobiscum, 
Mike Neumeister 64 West Winspear Ave. Buffalo, New York 14214 

'69L AT RANDOM 
Best wishes to all of my fellow '69ers for the New Year. Along with the many seasonal greetings at Christmas time came much good word regarding my classmates which I shall condense and set forth in random order. 
Congratulations are to be extended to Nancy and MERLE WILBERDING who have sent word of the October arrival of their firstbom, Abigail Ann. Merle has been assigned to the Government Appellate Division of the Army Judiciary in Washington, D.C. and spends his time writing briefs and arguing on appeals. I believe he deserves our "sleuth" award for discovering the whereabouts of PETE KUTCHER, who is also presenUy stationed with the Army in D.C. 
Congratulations also to Karen and DAVE LARIMER on the birth of their second daughter, Beth. Dave is an assistant U.S. Attorney in Washington, 
D.C. and, according to Karen, enjoys the work. Rita and HUGH MUNDY are now residents of EdwardsVille, Pa. As I believe I stated in a previous issue, Hugh is directing the Legal Aid Program in the Edwardsville area. JEFF CAVANAUGH is currently putting in his second year as a prof at Loyola U. School of Law. He frequently sees LEO O'BRIEN, the dean, and TOM SHAFFER, who is a visiting professor at the UCLA law school. The members of '69L are one and all invited to drop ' 
into JefTs new haunt next time we 
visit Malibu. 
Sue and DENNIS MACKIN have moved to an Atlanta suburb, but Dennis is still teamed up with a large Atlanta accounting firm. Also from Georgia comes word that PAT COONEY has become a member of both the Georgia and the Texas bars, and that upon completion of his federal clerkship he will pick one of the two states in which to practice. Terry and MATT DWYER are presently residents of the USMC base at Albany, Ga. Matt is specializing in two areas: defense of accused USMCJ offenders and year-around golf. 
Capt. A. A. REED has been stationed on Okinawa. Reading his descriptions of the beauty of Japan and the Orient is just like listening to "CRASH" DURAND. But there is apparently plenty of work to keep Al busy on "the rock," including, but not limited to, the conduct of the defense in an alleged homicide. Patsy and I are expecting an early winter visit from Pat and JIM ZAK. Jim will soon finish his federal clerkship and move to the great legal Mecca of the West: Denver, Colo. PAT BERG recently passed through Denver, but we unfortunately missed being able to see each other. Pat is currently working in a New York legal aid office. 
Perseverance of the Year Award: to JON PAUL RUBACH. John Paul writes to say that in addition to attending med school and working part time for a Buffalo, N.Y. law firm, he will enroll in architecture upon completing his M.D. 
Scott Atwell 
500 Continental National Bank BIdg. 
Englewood, Colo. 80218 
'69 MBA MESSAGES 
The Holiday Season produced a number of messages from MBA alumni, including a 
phone call from DENNY McCARTHY. Dennis is entering the second year of his Army ROTC commitment in Augusta, Ga. (address: 1700 Valley Park East, Apartment D-1, Augusta, Ga. 30904). After training at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Denny was up for assignment to Vietnam. As usual the fates smiled upon Denny, and he was reassigned to Augusta as a finance officer. He indicated 
that all was going well and that he 
and Beth were finding Army life tolerable. 
PETE SMITH and wife Linda have 
recently moved into a new home in Acton, 
Mass. Pete took a "vacation" to get the 
family settled in the new house. 
Season's Greetings from KEN CULLUM 
revealed that he is busy and happy with 
his personnel position with Bristol 
Steel and Iron. 
The following news comes from the NICK WALZ family. The Walz's were in Los Angeles for the Southern Cal game. With the exception of the game itself, a good time was had by all. Nick and Sara and family joined the DICK LYMANs for a trip to Disneyland. KEN SAMARA was also present at the disappointing "mud bowl" in L.A. 
XAVIER MONGE's wife Alias returned to the U.S. for more tests on their daughter, Maria Jose. Again, our sincere wishes for Maria's return to good health. FATHER HUGH KEEPER reports his involvement in interesting and exciting events at St. Benedict's College. St. Benedict's is undergoing a merger with Mount St. Scholastica. Father Hugh's position will be that of controller. JOE McCOURT is enjoying his work with V. Mueller and the basketball at Marquette U., where wife Peg is in her last semester. 
We have not received any eyewitness reports of the Irish's New Year's Day victory over ex-Number One Texas. Hopefully the '69 MBA's were represented at what must have been the most satisfying ND victory in many years. Your class secretary had a rare opportunity to attend a contest between his two alma maters when the Irish met St. Louis 
U. in basketball. I watched with mixed emotions as the Irish eked out a one-point victory over a mediocre but Inspired St. Louis U. team. It appeared that the Irish have the same kind of difficulties as in '68-'69 and were not quite up to a serious run at the NCAA crown. No offense, Domer (Lt. McCarthy). Be sure to keep us posted on your activities in 1971. 
Joe Cavato 
7122 Vernon 
University City, Mo. 63130 
'70L ON THE MOVE 
Most of the Bar results should be in by 
now, but as of yet I have heard nothing 
from the majority of the members of 
the class. Hopefully many of you will find 
time to drop me a line in the near future. 
Over the holidays I got a card from JOE LEAHY. He informed me that he, TERRY O'CONNOR, and JOHN KLEIN journeyed to Dallas to watch the Irish defeat Texas in the Cotton Bowl. He also informed me that PAT and Kay DOHERTY are to be congratulated on the anticipated arrival of their first baby sometime in June. Pat enjoys clerking for Judge Kilkenny, and is looking for anti-pollution work in Oregon when his clerkship is completed. 
I understand that JOHN and Pat FORHAN have returned to South Bend. John resigned his position with the Justice Department, and will assume a position with Legal Aid in South Bend. BOB MCDONNEL L is back in Washington, D.C. 
as a result of Congressman Piyor's re-election in November. 
Nancy and I got a Christmas card from KEN and Marie IVERSON. It seems that the Air Force saw fit to move them to Plattsburgh Air Force Base in upper New York just before Christmas. Ken has attained the tank of captain in J.A.G. and seems to enjoy his work. They were back at ND for the L.S.U. game and spent a good weekend with DAN RYBAK, JOE POTVIN, and JOHN and Mary MEANY. 
Speaking of Dan Rybak, he wrote over the holidays and said that he had his name in the Dec. 2nd edition of the New York Times. He was sworn in on Dec. 8th. Dan said that RICH SULLIVAN also passed the New York Bar. JOHN and Mary MEANY wrote to tell us that the Army finally caught up with him. After basic training, he was fortunate enough to be assigned to a J.A.G. office at Ft. Benjamin Harrison, Ind. They are pleased to be so close to ND football games, and hopeful that Uncle Sam will forget about them for a couple of years. John says he passed the Illinois Bar, and that he will probably take the Indiana Bar In the near future. 
The Christmas mail brought a card from JOHN and Marie PLUMB bearing the news that all is well with them and that John successfully passed the New York Bar. Finally, I got a note from GRACE OLIVAREZ. Grace is working as a consultant to the National Urban Coalition, and recently spoke on the topic "Women" at a meeting of the Nucleus Club in Phoenix, Ariz. 
Joseph E. Kane 5465 Kenwood Rd., Apt. 401 Cincinnati, Ohio 45227 

BIOLOGY 
RAYMOND TENNANT, M.S. '61, MICHAEL HANNA, M.S. '60, and FRANCIS KENNEY, M.S. '53, are all working at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (Animal Virus, Immunology of Carcinogenesis and Section Chief, respec­tively). Bro. NICHOLAS SULLIVAN, Ph.D. '60, president of the National Speleological Society, did research during the past summer on Kodiak Island, Alaska, while teaching for the south central region of the 
U. of Alaska at Kodiak Community College. He is also editor of the International Journal of Speleology and president of the Philadelphia Explorers Club. In his spare time, he is also chairman of the Earth Sciences Department, LaSalle College, PhiladeliAia, Pa. DR. WALTER HAUSER­MANN, Assistant Faculty Fellow, UND 1968-70 is now a research fellow. Inter­national Center for Insect Physiology and Ecology, Nairobi, Kenya (Dr. George B. Craig of the Department is Research Director of ICIPE). WENCESLAUS KILAMA, Ph.D. 10, is Lecturer in Parasitology, at the Medical School, University of Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzam'a. SR. MARY GERALD LEAHY, Ph.D. '62, just back from two years as Research Fellow, Department of Parasitology, Hebrew University Medical School, Jerusalem, has returned to teaching and research at Mount SL Maiy's College, Los Angeles. DR. G. 
A. H. MCCLELLAND, Post-doctoral Associate, 1962-63, has returned from a year as Director, WHO Field Unit on Biology of Aedes aegypti, Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania. He will take up his duties as Associate Professor, Department of Entomology, U. of California, Davis. 
The Department is looking forward to moving into the new Galvin Life Sciences Center probably at the end of the summer. 
Your correspondent looks forward to hearing from those graduate students whose activities have not been reported as yet or those whose location, etc. have changed. 
Ralph E. Thorson 
Biology Department 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


CHEMISTRY 

Prof. John Magee is at the physical chemistry laboratory, Oxford, England for the spring semester. Prof. Robert Hayes is teaching and researching at the U. of California at Berkeley this semester. Dr. David Breslow, senior research associate at the central research department of Hercules, is a visiting professor in the department Dr. Christian B. Aniinsen from the National Institute of Health delivered the Nieuwland lectures the first week in February. Prof. Jack D. Dunitz of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology is the Reilly Lecturer early in March. 
The following recently completed the requirements for the Ph.D. and are engaged in postdoctoral research: DENNIS BAKALIK, U. of Pennsylvania; GERALD FRANZEN, Iowa State; MARY JULIA STANKIEWICZ, Johns Hopkins; JER­SHUNG T\VU, Minnesota; WILLIAM WALTER, Washington State; and MARY ZELLER, Notre Dame. DANIEL STEIBLE also completed his Ph.D. requirements and is with the Children's Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
BOB CALLEN '69 was recently promoted to senior research chemist in the com­position and structure research group at Mobil Research and Development, Pauls­boro, NJ. MIKE DILLON '65 is a Fellow Scientist at the Mellon Institute, Carnegie-Mellon U. GEORGE ESTOK '50 is at the Thermodynamics Research Center, Texas 
A. & M. U. JOHN JACKOVITZ '65 is a Senior Scientist at the Westinghouse Re­search Labs in Pittsburgh and a faculty research associate at the U. of Pittsburgh. He is program chairman for the 1971 Pittsburgh Conference on Analytical Chemistry and Applied Spectroscopy. BOB LAZO '54 is a member of the law firm of Fidler, Patnaude and Lazo, Oak Brook, III. He was recently appointed to Atomic Safety and Licensing Board panel of the AEC. The principal function of the Board is to conduct pubh'c hearings and to make initial decisions on applications to construct nuclear power plants. MONTY MONTJAR 
M.S. '50 (Ph.D. Carnegie Tech) is teaching at the Hazleton campus of Pennsylvania State U. SUBRAHMANYA KRISHNA­MURTHY '64 is at the Naval Stores Laboratory, Olustee, Florida. RAY PEN­LAND '56 is with American Cyanamid in Washington, D.C. and is working for his Law degree at George Washington U. ED WILLIAMS M.S. '50 (Ph.D. Purdue) is back researching at Purdue, on a sabbatical from St. Norbert College, West De Pere, Wis. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
Department of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


ENGLISH 

Bro. GERMAIN FADDOUL, CSC, M.A. '51, Ph.D. '63, has been appointed registrar at SL Edward's U., Austin, Texas, where he has been teaching since 1954. During the 1966-67 academic year he was a visiting professor at Al Hikma U. in Bagdad. He has published two books. Knight Without Armor and An Angel for His Guide. LUCIEN FOURNIER, Ph. D. '68, teaches in the graduate program at SL Louis U., where he is an assistant professor. His wife, the former BARBARA RYS, received an 
M.A.T. from ND in 1967. At the U. of Michigan BERT G. HORNBACK, Ph.D. '64, has been promoted to the rank of associate professor. His book The Metaphor of Chance: Vision and Technique in the Works of Thomas Hardy was published in December by Ohio University Press. His recent publications include "Dickens' Argument with the Law" in Dimensions OcL 1970, and reviews of scholarly books in Criticism and Dickens Studies Newsletter. He has edited five previously unpublished Dickens letters for the spring issue of The Michigan Quarterly Review and has completed Noah's Arkitecture: A Study of Dickens's Mythology. "A Dickens Christ­mas," a special Christmas program he created and directed, was presented on WUOM-FR, Ann Arbor and Grand Rapids. Next year he will have a sabbatical to work on another book, Dickens and the Romantics. 
Sister JANE KIRCHNER, RSM (formerly Sr. Mary Evangelista), Ph.D. '65, is president of Edgecliff College (which used to be Our Lady of Cincinnati College). THOMAS J. WACK, M.A. '50, Ph.D. '61, is now acting dean of Wheeling College in West Virgim'a, where he has been on the faculty since 1965. In addition to several who have been cited in this column recently, the following alumni are serving as English department chairmen at various colleges around the country: DANIEL P. DENEAU, 
M.A. '55, Ph.D. '59, at Spring Hill College, Mobile, Ala.; CHARLES B. HANDS, Ph.D. '59, at Loyola College in Baltimore; Rev. JOSEPH P. KEENA, CSC, M.A. '51, Ph.D. '60, Stonehill College, North Easton, Mass.; Rev. MALACHY SHANAGHAN, OSB, Ph.D. '60, SL Bernard College in Alabama; Sister MARIE DENISE SULLI­VAN, Ph. D. '61, SL Maiy of the Woods College in Indiana; JOSEPH T. WARD, Ph.D. '59, Carroll College, Helena, MonL; and WILLIAM A. WEHMEYER, Ph.D. '62, SL Bonaventure U., New York. 
Robert M. Slabey English Department Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 


HISTORY 
Profs. PHILIP GLEASON, FREDRICK 
PIKE, JOHN WILLIAMS, JAMES WARD, 
LEON BERNARD, and your correspondent 
all delivered papers or performed in other 
official capacities at the A.H.A. convention 
in Boston, Dec. 28-30. In Prof. Bernard's 
case, his paper had to be read for him be­

cause he had the bad luck to fall and break 
his hip in early December. His many friends 
and ex-students will be glad to know that 

he is recovering routinely and will teach 
in the spring semester, though he will not 
be able to walk for some time. Prof. 
BOLESLAW SZCZESNIAK continues to 
be dogged by misfortune. He lost his 
second son, Andrew, this fall. Prof. 
Szczesm'ak himself has recovered from his 
heart attack of last May. He was on leave 
during the fall semester and spent con­
siderable time travelling and doing research 
in Poland, Italy, and Malta. He expects to 
return to teaching during the spring 
semester. 
At the A.H.A. convention I saw many former ND history faculty members and grizzled veterans of the graduate program: JAMES O'NEILL, currently director of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library at Hyde Park, N.Y.; RAYMOND MARAS, now at Dayton U ; ARTHUR HENNESSEY of LaSalle College, an unsuccessful "peace" candidate for Congress in Bucks County, Pa. last fall; CHARLES TULL, our neighbor and former department chairman, at Indiana U. of South Bend; JAMES SWEENEY, now at Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va.; ROBERT HUESTON of the U. of Scranton; EDWARD WEHRLE of the U. of Connecticut; JOHN WOODS of Rosemont College, who defended his dissertation here at ND early in December; THOMAS MORIARTY of Our Lady of the Elms College in Chicopee, Mass.; Sister ADELE GORMAN of Our Lady of the Angels College in Glen Riddle, Pa.; JOHN KLIER, currently finishing his doctoral studies at the U. of IlUnois; Rev. JAMES CON­NELLY, who has entered the doctoral program at the U. of Chicago; and HOWARD DOOLEY of Western Michigan. Howard is about to become a television personality. He is preparing a series of 28 lectures on twentieth century Europe to be delivered to freshmen via TV. Johnny Carson, Ed Sullivan, et al en garde! 
I received Christmas cards from BERNARD LALOR in Constantinople, where he is doing research in Ottoman history, and from TIM O'KEEFE of Santa Clara. Tim reports that he and Julie have a new son who weighed in at 9 lbs. 11 oz. even though bom nearly a month pre­maturely. Tim is putting out feelers for football scholarships. He could use a little police training himself since he is chairman of the Court of Student Conduct at Santa Clara this year. If he survives this assign­ment he will be up for tenure in the spring. 
JOHN MARSZALEK writes from Gannon College that he has recently had articles published in the Duquesne Review and Civil War Times Illustrated, had others accepted for publication in American Heritage and American History Illustrated, and will represent Gannon College in competition for a summer stipend awarded by the National Endowment for the Humanities. Congratulation, John! 
With blizzards sweeping the tundra, the History Department basketball team has taken the floor for another season. Rumors that RICHARD WALTERS, distinguished leader of last year's juggernaut, would replace Adolph Rupp at Kentucky proved unfounded. Coach Walters was again at the helm, inspiring an intrepid band of clear eyed, stout hearted, and somewhat broad beamed warriors to one consecutive victory in December. Some observers have declared that on our team Austin Carr would be just a playmaker. While this is admittedly an uncritical estimate it can be said that we look forward to resumption of the season in late January with the calm confidence of a poker player who possesses a Christian conscience and four aces. 
Bernard Norling Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
LAW 
Dean Williaw B. Lawless has resigned as 
Dean effective Feb. 1, 1971 to enter private practice with a New York City law firm. Professor Edward J. Murphy has been 
named acting Dean until a successor to Dean Lawless is appointed. 
Professor Emeritus Ed Barrett has been reappointed to a committee of the ABA Section on Judicial AdministraU'on for the improvement of trial advocacy. The Committee's Chairman, Hon. William B. Jones; U. S. District Court in Washington, D.C., L '31. 
Professor Mike Mclntire participated in New York symposium on Young Lawyers and the Legal Revolution, pertaining to Environmental problems with former Attorney General Ramsey Clark and others held last November. Professor Mclntire has also recently authored "The Environment and the Law in New York Law Colleges," which is a study on current environmental law programs in New York State, prepared for the Rensselaer Research Corp. and the New York State Department of Education and submitted in Oct, 1970. He was author of an article, accepted for publication in Hastings Law Review in Feb., 1971, entitled: "Necessity in Condemnation Cases —Who Speaks for the People?" and of an article accepted for publication in the first issue of a new, general circulation magazine called "Ecology Today," to be released in March. The article describes and discusses the interdisciplinary "mock trial" program . conducted last year at Syracuse University. 
Professor Charies Rice has delivered eight talks on abortion, and population control to various organizations in Indiana, Kansas, North Dakota and California. Professor Peter Thornton is director of the Law School's 1971 summer program in London to be offered June 28 to August 10, 1971 at Brunei University. STEPHAN L. ODGENS L '68 has co-authored an article "Intra-Family Immunity: The Vanishing Doctrine" a recent issue of the California Trial Lawyers oiirnal. BRADLEY T. FREEMAN L '70 is an associate with Geister, Schnell, Richards and Brown in Elgin, Illinois. 
Father Bill Lewers spoke at the 50th Anniversary dinner of the NAACP in Michigan City on Dec. 5. Charles Evers, Mayor of Fayette, Miss., was the other speaker and as a member of the Indiana State Advisory Committee to the 
U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, partici­pated in the public hearings in December in IndianapoUs on Indiana prison conditions. 
Leslie G. Foschio Notre Dame Law School Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

PHYSICS 
As a starter this time, here's an item for the old-timers. Via Christmas letter, LEONARD DART '46 and wife, Martha, report that they will be returning to India in June—for a two-year stay this time. Leonard will be serving as a staff physicist for the National Science Foundation in New Delhi. Their address there after July 1, 1971, will be: c/o NSF/AID, 9 Ring Road, Lajpatnagar IV, New Delhi 24, India. Better save the address, because Marty will be expecting a lot of mail there from their former acquaintances. Marty reports that a 13-cent aerogranime or a sealed envelope bearing a 2S-cent stamp will reach them in about a week via air mail. Regular mail, however, takes three months. In case you would like to practice your letter writing (e.g., make advance preparations to visit them in India), their present( and permanent home) address is: 421 W.'8th St., Claremont, Calif. 91711. And now here are some more names, addresses, and activities of ND Physics Ph.D. Alumni: 
HENRY J. PRASK '63 (nuclear spectroscopy) lives at 16 Whites Ave. (No. 28), Watertown, Mass. 02172. Hank was one of our own undergraduate physics majors. He received his BS degree in 1958. Contrary to long established practice here at ND, Hank was not married before receiving his Ph.D., nor is he yet, to the best of my knowledge. From 1962-64 he served in the U.S. Army, stationed at the Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, N.J., rising to the rank of captain in the process. Since 1965, Hank has been employed as a solid state physicist. Explosives Research Lab, FRL, Picatinny Arsenal, D. O. Defense, working at AMMRC Reactor, Watertown, Mass. 
SAMUEL F. TREVINO '64 (nuclear physics), wife Juliette, and five children, Samuel, Leticia, Jorge, Felicitas, and Magdalena, live at 19 Butler Ave., Lexington, Mass. 02173. Paralleling Hank Prask's post-Ph.D. employment, Sam also served in the U.S. Army, from 1963 to 1965, and also rose to the rank of captain in the Ordnance Corps. Since 1965 Sam has also been employed as a solid state research physicist by the Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, N.J., and reports that he currently is a "guest" at AMMRC, Watertown, Mass. 02172. Sam's primary professional interest at present is the use of low energy (.005 to .5 ev) neutron scattering to study lattice dynamics of crystals. 
One of our former ND undergraduate physics majors, RICHARD MICAL, B.S. "65, who went to Boston College for his graduate work, reports that he did his Ph.D. thesis work under Hank Prask and Sam Trevino at the Army Research Reactor in Watertown, Mass. His thesis work was a study of lattice dynamics of potassium azide using coherent neutron scattering. Looks like Hank and Sam are still preserving close ties with the academic world. 
That's all for this time, except that your columnist again wishes to issue a strong plea for you to check in and supply him with new and up-to-date information. 
Robert L. Anthony Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY 
This fall semester flashed by faster than ever, thanks in large measure to the new academic calendar. Gone is the post-holiday "lame duck" session, replaced by a pre-holiday session of trauma. Some profs and students are still shell-shocked from the onrush of pre-Chiistmas deadlines for grades, papers, and the like—chores previously dispensed with at a more leisurely pace during the holiday itself. Somewhere amidst the turmoQ engendered by compressing the usual number of activities into a briefer time span, we lost sight of the annual autumn rite of introducing our readership to the Department's new staff members. 
Two anthropologists have swelled our ranks. Prof. James Bellis, part archeologist, part cultural anthropologist, and full-time Africanist, came to us from Indiana U. Dr. Kenneth Moore, a cultural anthropologist from the U. of Illinois who specializes in culture change, is another new colleague. Appointed head of Notre Dame's Black Studies Program was Dr. Joseph Scott, formerly at Toledo U., who doubles in brass as an authority on deviance. Finally, we have managed to alter the staffs sex ratio by hiring Dr. Fu-chin Kuo, a charming and altogether competent mathematical sociologist and methodologist trained at Colorado U. She and Prof. Rytina now have the numerical wherewithal to form a Women's Lib cell, and Prof. Rytina no longer must feel, as an old song had it, like a "lonely little petunia in an onion patch." 
Several staff members have produced plugworthy books. Prof. Dodge's Social Stress and Mental Illness, co-authored with Walter T. Martin, has been published by the Notre Dame Press, as has Mexican-Americans in the Southwest, a book co-authored by Julian Samora, Ernesto Galarza, and Herman Gallegos. Marxist Theory and Indian Communism, a sociological analysis of Marxist thought as it relates to "the class antagonism of the productive process" put out by the Michigan State U. Press, was co-authored by Charles P. Loomis and Joan Rytina. Meanwhile, Scott Foresman has ventured into the highly competitive introductory sociology text market by issuing an extraordinarily handsome entry—^Melvin 
L. DeFleur, William V. D'Antonio, and Lois B. DeFleur, Sociology: Man in Society. The latter, a four-year labor of love and anguish, promises to compete quite favorably with standard works in the field. Prof. Liu has co-authored two recent books: The Emerging Woman (with Martha Stewart), Little, Brown and Co., and The Essence of Chinese Cooking, Aurora Press, Nashville, Tenn. His collaborator on the cookbook was that superb cook and hostess, Mrs. William T. Liu, whose deft Oriental illustrations help make the book a typographical spectacular. 
Summer Session, 1971 will see an exciting line-up of courses for our students: Theory, Methods, Social Stratification, Race and Minorities, and the Sociology of Religion. A few openings remain for any qualified students you may wish to refer to us. Robert H. Vasoli Department of Sociology 
and Anthropology Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 



Mississippi Gluli filfeps NO AlHHini Deeii 
The official Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation Automobile Decal has been introduced by the Notre Dame Club of Mississippi. Some time ago at one of the club's monthly luncheons the members were discussing ways to raise funds to implement plans for a schol­arship program. Several ideas were put forth, most of which required more manpower than was available in the 25-member club. 
One member noted that Notre Dame has no automobile decal for alumni, as so many other schools throughout the country do. Why not 
AKRON 

More than 200 people, including many of the area alumni and their wives, attended our 3rd Annual Ara Parseghian Awards Banquet held at the Tangier, one of Akron's leading restaurants, the evening of Jan. 8. The awards are given each year to an area high school back and lineman who have exemplified themselves by their athletic, scholastic and personal achievements. 
The program commenced with an in­vocaUon by ND's own FATHER BARRY. BOB MEEKER '66, hard-working chairman of the event, served most capably as master of ceremonies. Awards of recognition were given to Scott Hempel 71, Bob Neidert 
•71 and Rich Thoman 72 as the Akron area's contribution to this year's Cotton-Bowl victory. After Club President GREG FOUST '63 briefly described the purpose of the Parseghian awards, each of the recipients were introduced by their respective coaches and the presentations made. This year's recipients were Brian Bowers of Lake High School and Bill Sparhawk of St Vincent There is little doubt that these will become two of college football's "names" in the near future. 
The highlight of the evening was most certainly the talk given by Tom Pagna, ND's backfield coach and the Club's honored guesL Coach Pagna described his associau'ons with Ara, coaching experiences, and views on happiness, success and life in general in his own unique and inspiring style. Perhaps the most spine-tingling portion of the talk was his definitive explanation of the "Notre Dame Mystique." The 
produce a decal and make it available to all alumni through their local clubs? The idea was presented to the Alumni Association and approved at the September 1970 meeting of the Alumni Board. Robert Canizaro '62 and David Trigiani '62, two Jackson, Mississippi, architects, then went to the drawing board and designed what was to become the official Notre Dame Alumni Decal. 
Final approval of the sketches was obtained in November 1970; at the time the Mississippi Club was granted exclusive authority by the Alumni As­sociation to manufacture and market the decal. 
The decal itself is a 3%-inch square of vinyl on which is imprinted the famous interlocking ND and the words "University of Notre Dame Alumni Association." The back­
ground color is metallic gold; the ND is a rich blue and the other copy is clear. The decal is self-adhering and is applied to the inside of any clear surface. Its size makes it adaptable to areas such as side vent windows or windshield rather than just the usual rear window location. 
The Mississippi club is now in the process of mailing brochures to ND 
audience expressed their appreciation of 
Coach Pagna with a standing ovation of 
several minutes. At the close of the program 
Master of Ceremonies Meeker presented a 
special award to Ed Niam, who is perhaps 
the greatest of all ND "Subway Alumni." 
The award expressed the Club's special 
appreciation to Niam for his passionate 
involvement and interest in ND. 
On Dec. 8, a strong representation 

assembled at the Newman Club at Akron 
U. for an evening Mass and Universal Notre Dame Communion. Coffee and doughnuts were served after Mass. Plans are being finalized for a Husband-Wife Sunday Retreat for Feb. 28. Co-ordinators for this activity are Mr. and Mrs. JACK GIBBONS '63. Reconsideration is being given to the possibility of a St. Patrick's Day dance, which was not formally scheduled for this year, but which recently has been generating much interest. 
Harry F. Pepper, Jr. '60 
BUFFALO 
Communion Breakfasts are alive and well in Buffalo. The ND Club Dec. 6 Breakfast at Rosary Hill College was attended by 75 adults and children. The event was ably chaired by DICK WAGNER '53. For February the Buffalo Club is planning a Notre Dame Night with the Braves (Buffalo's NBA entry). Let us add our congratulations to the-football team's superb effort at Dallas, with a special accolade to the obviously great coaching job. 
Marvin J. LaHood '58 
Club Presidents throughout the world so that the decals will be available to individual club members in the near future. Alumni clubs can purchase the decals at wholesale prices and then retail them to their members as a fund raising project. The decals were first introduced in the hospitality room in Dallas during the Cotton Bowl weekend, where they received an en­thusiastic acceptance. Alumni living in areas where there are no organized 
clubs may obtain the decal by sending $1.00 to the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Mississippi, 733 North State Street, Jackson, Mississippi 39201. 
^ 
\ Tr-V^V3Lf^^©l-

CmCAGO 
The Annual Knute Rockne Memorial Dinner of the Chicago Club was held Dec. 14 at the Pick Congress Hotel. The coveted Rockne trophies presented each year to the three outstanding Chicago high school football players selected by the prep writers on the basis of athletic ability, leadership qualities and scholastic achievement were presented to Mark Zekula, Marisi High School for the Catholic League, Dale Henricksen of Barrington-Consolidated High School for the Suburban League and Jeffery Mack of Farragut High School for the Chicago Public League. 
Nearly 825 alumni and friends of ND attended the dinner which was the Midwest salute to Frank Leahy, who was inducted into the National Football Foundation Hall of Fame the previous week. Incidentally, Coach Leahy was not able to attend,, having entered the hospital in Houston immediately after the foundation award banquet His brother, TOM LEAHY '40, accepted the award in Coach Leahy's behalf. Ara Parseghian presented the first annual Frank Leahy Coaching Award to the high school coach who represented the highest traditions of coaching excellence to Bob Naughton, head football coach of New Trier West 
President PAT MONTROY '53 announced the appointment of TOM MacNAMARA '53 and BOB LEE '53 as co-chairmen of the UND Night to be held on April 26 at the new McCormick Place. 
Bill Cahill '58 
CINCINNATI 
On Dec. 6, the Cincinnati ND alumni and 
families joined together for the 1970 
Universal ND Communion Breakfast. This year, as in the past. Mass was celebrated at the Edgecliff College Chapel, followed 
by a breakfast in the College Cafeteria. 
Final plans are being made for this year's St. Patrick's Day Dance. The chairman of the dance is Mrs. ANDREW BARTON JR. The St. Patrick's dance will be held March 12, at the Hyde Park Golf and Country Club. JACK. MULVIHILL has promised to provide the green beer. The music will be provided by McNamara's Band. Shillelaghs will be given away as door prizes, and a good time is sure to be had by all. 
Tom Eagen '66 

CLEVELAND 
Congratulations go to some of our local members for political achievements at Ohio's last general election in November. JIM FLANNERY '60 was overwhelmingly re­elected to a 3rd term in Ohio House of Representatives. FRANCIS GAUL '49 garnered the City Council seat of Cleveland's Ward 4. The entire club, particularly CREIGHTON MILLER '44 and JAMES KAVAL '64, worked extremely long and effective hours in propelling our own JOHN GILLIGAN to the governor's mansion. 
On Dec. 7 we had our annual Rocknc Awards Dinner where we present plaques to U boys in the area that we study and conclude represent Cleveland's finest foot­ball talent Perennial Chairman JIM RODGERS '49 again put together a fine program and we were fortunate in having Coach Mike Stock here to take a pretty good look at the recipients. We feel many of them are capable of cutting it in big time football and we hope that Ara and stall further evaluate their potential. Many of us get real wrapped up in the program staying in close contact with the High School Coaches, the kids and their families. JOHN McGUIRE '48 and TOM RINI '60 are still convinced that they are going to woo Larry Zelina to ND. Hats off to Chairman Rodgers and his co-chairman, KEN LIPINSKI '65, who work so hard every year to make the affair a success. All our awardees are stand-outs both athletically and academically and sometimes matriculate to other schools to haunt us. Bo Schem­beckler ends up with so many of them that he's coming to town this month to give Rodgers a plaque. 
The following day at St. John's College Chapel and Cafeteria, we held a Com­munion Lunch, run very aptly by BOB RICHARD '56. It was quite an impressive show of spiritual force as we all hit the rail in unison celebrating the Immaculate Conception. We enticed many members we haven't seen too often by heavy advertising on receiving the Blessed Sacrament in both species. Hot Toddies preluded the Luncheon and congratulations are certainly in order for Chairman Richard for his effort in bringing us back to our Blessed Mother on this Feast Day. 
On Dec. 30 at the Statler Hotel, we held a rally in conjunction with the then on­coming Texas game. We felt the spirit and activity generated was transposed down to Cotton Bowl with our Cleveland Cheers and prayers being answered. JIM McNAMEE '63 led us in singing the Victory March while his talented wife Mary Jane, wore her fingers out playing at the piano for three hours. Past Presidents VIC GULYASSY '48 and THOMAS CORRIGAN simulated Pat O'Brien and took turns giving us all a pep talk. FRANK KUCHTA '58 and TOM KOSTELNIK '65 were a little down­trodden at not making any trips when they were peaking during their college years. In all, it was a nice affair breaking up only because we had to get Dr. CY CALDWELL 
'25 and ED CHUDINSKI '36 out to the airport in time to make the Cotton Bowl trip. Our Secretary JOE BRYAN '61 and JIM McMULLEN '61 wore Rugby sweaters and beanies to do the cheer leading. We feel we contributed significantly in achieving ultimate victory and success in Dallas. 
Patrick J. Cannon "55 

DALLAS 
When the Irish announced they were headed back for a rematch with Texas in the Cotton Bowl, the ND Club of Dallas was already in high gear. Club officers had speculated three weeks earlier that ND would be returning to Big D, and had made tentative arrangements for a second Cotton Bowl/New Year's Eve party. They had also mobilized club members in various jobs, and were ready to go when the University announced where the Fighting Irish would be spending New Year's. Needless to say the game's outcome made it worth all the effort that went into the festivities. 
The Club's annual Christmas party, on Dec. 5, chaired by HENRY NEUHOFF '56 and held at the home of PAT DWYER '49, kicked off a month of unusual activity. Club president JOHN RONAN '56 and his wife Katie, SMC '56, assisted by club secretary CHICK MARTIN '59, devoted practirally all of their days and nights during the month before the game to organizing and coordinating the various events. The first Cotton Bowl event was a team welcoming the day after Christmas at Dallas Love Field, ably headed by JIM DENIG '66, who arranged for each player to be met as he arrived from his home town, plus arranging a welcome for the coaches and other team members who arrived on a chartered plane from South Bend. On Dec. 29, club members had another opportunity to see the team, with an invitation to attend a practice at the Cotton Bowl. Some 300 alumni and their families turned out for the session. 
On Dec. 30, the University opened its Hospitality Suite at the Statler Hilton Hotel —a smashing success, with some 3,000 visit­ing alumni and friends registered and countless more just dropping by. LARRY BEDFORD '54, club VP, organized the suite and coordinated with official Domers JIM COONEY '59, Alumni Secretary, and MIKE JORDAN '68. As the New Year approached, over 1,100 loyal alumni rang in the best day of all for the Irish at Memorial Auditorium at a gala party sponsored by the club. MIKE CAOLO '66, headed this monumental fete, with help from many club members. JAY JONES '59, arranged transportation for the party and also put together a Mass schedule to enable everyone to find a convenient New Year's Day Mass before the big game. 
As the sun came up at the Cotton Bowl, Bob Brown was opening the Dallas Cowboy Club (renamed for the day the Fighting Irish Club) to provide a place for alumni and friends to gather before the game. Of course, this facility was open after the game also and became a full fledged victory party. 
The day after the game, ED FLEMING '63, and ED ZILLIKEN '57, organized, with the support from the Cotton Bowl Association, a Texas style barbecue for the team, coaches, and their families. This party held at the Gordon McLendon ranch on Lake Dallas, also attracted many club members, with more than 550 people attending to celebrate the victory once again. 
John RONAN, on behalf of the officers of the club, wishes to extend thanks to the numerous people that helped in making this bowl appearance for ND a success. "There are too many people to thank individually," John reports, "but we feel it is worth noting that we have 140 dues-paying members, all of whom were seen during the Cotton Bowl festivities helping out anywhere they could. For that we are sincerely gratefuL We are also particularly indebted to all of the wives for their undying 
IN DETROIT—Among those gathered at the Detroit Chapter, National Football Hall Foundation and Hall of Fame Dinner, in December were: (seated) Paul Shotdts, Leon Hart, Joe Carey, Bob Bogg, Jim Leary, Ed Bracken; (standing) Lou Basso, Jim Sherry, John Gallagher, Len Trotta, Bob Fries, Earl Brown, Jim Motschall, Jim Martin, Paul Hoinung, Tim Criiice, Terry Keating, John Panelli and Lou Bosco. Hornung was the featured speaker at the dinner. 
energies." John also noted that all activities 
were sponsored by the Club to benefit 

the Scholarship Fund it established in 1970, 
after the first ND Cotton Bowl appearance. 
The local Alumni Association also wants 
to express special appreciation to Ara and 
his team for adding icing to the cake, and 
making it a little easier for us to live in 
Texas for the next 20 years. 
Chick Martin '59 


DECATUR 

On Jan. 21, with Dr. AL KRYGER, chair­man, a Communion Supper featured a folk Mass. Its celebrant. Father Perodota, was the featured speaker at the Blue Mill restaurant. Our president, PAT NOLAN '63, convened the ofiicers and Board Jan. 26 to set the club's calendar and hopefully to decorate all occasions with cotton. 
S. G. Graliker '42 


DELAWARE 

The Alimmi-Student Softball game on June 28 was a grand success if one equates total runs versus "7-Ups" consumed. Considerable confusion exists as to the final outcome although there is unanimous alumni agree­ment the grads outslugged the students 52-44—or thereabouts. The all something Alumni team was made up of: JACK McVEIGH '51, PAUL CLEMENS '57, DICK FOX '61, PAUL LOVELL '61, JIM VACHRIS '55, DENNY PETRILLO '61, Denny's friend Gene—a ringer from Purdue—and MIKE O'NEILL '66. The student team consisted of: Pat Feeney, Jim Goett and brother Steve, Mike and Sean PRENDERGAST, brothers of STEVE '70, Vince Marconi and Bruce who was con­scripted from the ranks. Mrs. Vachris and Mrs. O'Neill provided cheer leading support and, we understood, drove home. 
The family picm'c was held on Aug. 30. As in the past, ART BAUM '36 and family did a tremendous hosting job. In attendance were LEX and Tookie PETRILLO '54 (young Lex, Lisa, J. D. and Cara), Jack McVeigh, CHARLIE WOLFE '50, PAUL CLEMENS '57 (Lisa and Lucy), DICK FOX '61 (Sharon, Mark, and Heather), JIM and Barbara VACHRIS '55 (Bonny, Kathy, Susie, Jimmy, and Andrea Mary), and the entire Baum family. 
Speaking of McVeigh—there is a "star" among us. Jack has been a member of Brandywiners Ltd. who have been producing theatrical productions since 1932. This summer Jack starred as "The Music Man" Charlie at the Longwood Gardens Open Air Theatre. For an old '51 gaffer he came through in singing, swinging style. 
Thirty-six Alumni, wives and children made the Notre Dame-Navy game bus trip to Philadelphia on Oct 31. While not much of a football game, the goal posts did come down—latter attributable to other clubs both alumni and subway. GEORGE RAAB '59 is coaching basketball and other sports at the Boys Home of Delaware in Wilming­ton. Our congratulations to George for "doing a real thing." 
A near sellout crowd attended the ND Glee Club performance at Wilmington's Salesianum School on Nov. 27. Concert proceeds went to "Sallies" music program in memory of Robert DePur, a member of the ND Glee Club who died last fall. This was indeed a professional presentaU'on and we hope the Glee Club schedule permits an early return to the Wilmington area. Some of us were particularly pleased to host the Glee Club members overnight and to learn first hand about ND today. 
A Club Christmas Renewal Mass-Social Event was tentatively scheduled for Jan. 10 at Father TOM GARDOCKI's '61 St Hedwig's Church in Wilmington. 
H. G. Travis '54 


FT. WAYNE 
The Notre Dame Club of F t Wayne held its aimual Communion breakfast at the Crosier House of Studies on Dec. 6. Father Richard John of the Crosier House said the Mass and was the featured speaker at the breakfast Attendance of alumni and members of their families was over 100. This activity of the F t Wayne Club has been gaining in popularity particularly since it has become a family function and we wish to express our thanks to BOB KLINGENBERGER for his efforts in a well-run activity. 
Arthur H. Witucki '57 


FLINT 
Members of the ND Club of Flint, their families and their friends attended the 
annual Communion Mass at St Matthew Catholic Church with breakfast following at Higgins Restaurant This activity, held the first Sunday in December is sponsored by the many alumni clubs in the United States and abroad. MIKE JORDAN '68, assistant to JIM COONEY '59 at the Alumni Office of the University, was the main speaker. He stressed the four elements of good family relations—respect responsi­bility, appreciation, and love. JACK KEAN made the announcement that JAMES RHADIGAN "59 was the president elect for the coming year. Santa appeared with gifts for the youngsters. VICTOR GEORGE III '53 received a lap robe. SISTER M. JULIEN WILKE, C.S.C. '56 who was the first coed to receive a bachelor degree from ND made the presentation. HARRY McARA was honored for outstanding service to the ND Club of Flint, as well as JOE RICHVALSKY, Dr. GERALD J. MURPHY, and PETER BUTERAKOS. 

William F. Minardo '32 

GREEN BAY-FOX VALLEY 
ND Alumni from Green Bay, Appleton and Oshkosh celebrated their patron's feast day, Dec. 8, with Mass and Communion offered by Rev. William J. Spaulding, pastor and club chaplain at Resurrection Church in Allouez. Fifty-four alumni and wives attended the annual affair, followed by a reception and dinner at the Downtowner Motel, Green Bay. 
By mailed ballots, the alumni agreed to merge into one club to be known as the Green Bay-Fox Valley Notre Dame Club. Oflicers of the newly merged group for 1971 are THOMAS P. BROGAN '48, of Green Bay, president; Dr. MICHAEL CROSS '59, of Allouez, first vice president; RANDALL MELZER '68, of Mensha, second vice president and GRAHAM WERNER '61, of Appleton, secretary-treasurer. 
MIKE McCOY 70, former Notre Dame AU-American and Packer lineman, presented an autographed Notre Dame football to PAUL SCHIERL '57. Mike also made a few predicu'ons on the Cotton Bowl and his Packer team. 
Attendance at Annual Communion Banquet, Green Bay, Wise: 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS MURPHY, 53; Rev. William J. Spaulding; Mr. and Mrs. ROGER T. VAN DRISSE '57; Mr. and Mrs. PAUL SCHIERL '57-'61; Dr. and Mrs. MICHAEL CROSS '59; Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. KERWIN JR. '40; Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND H. EBLI '42; Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH A. NEUFELD '44; Dr. and Mrs. F. J. DEGA '56; Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL McCOY 70; Dr. and Mrs. 
TEAMWORK—Officers of the newly merged Green Bay-Fox Valley Notre Dame Club for 1971 receive instructions on teamwork, symbolized by an autographed 1970 ND Team football from Mike McCoy '70 center, former Notre Dame AU-American and Packer lineman. (Left to right) Dr. Mike Cross '59, 1st vice president, Allouez; Thomas P. Brogan '48, president, Allouez; McCoy, Green Bay: Randall Melzer '68, 2nd vice president, Appleton and Graham Werner '61, secretary-treasurer, Appleton. 
DANIEL SHEA '48; Pat Shea '75; RAY SAUVEY '56; Mr. and Mrs. JOE FIEWEGER '44; Mr. and Mrs. DON E. CLANCY '39; Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT KIRSCHLING '64; Mrs. William Woodward; Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS P. BROGAN '48; WALLACE P. CHRISTMAN '44; Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD MEYER '60; Mr. and Mrs. DUDLEY D. BIRDER '50, MM '52; Mr. and Mrs. JOHN K. GSCHWIND '56; Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND F. O'CONNOR; Mr. and Mrs. 
J. J. SIDDALL '36; Dr. and Mrs. EUGENE 
A. SCHRANG; RANDALL C. MELZER '68; Mr. and Mrs. VINCENT STE. MARIE '51; Mr. and Mrs. GRAHAM A. WERNER '61. 
Thomas P. Brogan '48 
HAWAn 
The Hawaii Alumni Club participated in the Universal Communion Sunday in a unique way. On Nov. 28, the Club gathered for Mass and Communion at the home of TOM and Ruth FLYNN. Father Robert Mackey of Chaminade College officiated. After the Mass, brunch was served and radios were tuned in for the ND-USC game. 
On Jan. 5, about 80 alumni and friends of the University attended a dinner honoring Joseph Theismann. To give Joe a chance to see a little more of Oahu than the Waikiki area, the dinner was held on the windward side at the Haiku Gardens. Joe spent a week on the island prior to his accomplishments in the Hula Bowl game. Thanks to ANDY LUM, WALT CABRAL, and the other Club officers, the affair was quite successful. 
Any alumni planning to resettle in the Aloha State may obtain information con­cerning the Club by writing to me at 1319 Kina SL, KaUua, Hawaii, 96734. 
Dennis M. Keating, '62 


INDIANAPOLIS 
Universal Notre Dame Night will be observed April 19 at Stouffers Inn, Indianapolis. Reception and cocktails will start at 6 p.m. Rev. JAMES BURT­CHAELL CSC, provost at the University, will be the featured speaker. CHARLES 
G. WAGNER '54 is chairman of the event. 
Dr. James A. Crossin '60 

JERSEY SHORE 
The annual business meeting of the club is tentatively scheduled for Thursday evening, March 11, and will be a dinner meeting at the West End Manor, Long Branch. Nomi­nations Committee Chairman GEORGE BARISCILLO '44 and Man of the Year Chairman Dr. CHARLES PATERNO '40 will report to the membership. The meeting will include dinner and will start at 7 p.m. Membership will receive confirmation of this election meeting in the mail. 
Recent club activities have included a bus trip to Madison Square Garden to see the ND-Fordham basketball game, the trip under the co-chairmanship of Vice President JOHN WHITE '48 and Treasurer JOHN BOGAN '55, and the revival of the Com­munion Breakfast, held in Asbury Park on Dec. 6 with DICK BYRNE '52 as chairman and with F t Dix's head chaplain. Col. 
Joseph Sheehan as speaker. 
Plans for the UND dinner in late April will be discussed at the annual club meeting in March. Notification for this important club function will be sent to all known alumni in the area. Recent club policy calls for mailings for other club activities to be limited to dues paying members. All alumni may reach the club by writing 
P.O. Box 286, Asbury Park, N.J. 07712. 
Chariie Keller '54 

KENTUCKY 
Congratulations go to ROMANO MAZZOLI '54 on his recent election as U.S. repre­sentative from Kentucky. Everyone associated with Rom, both in the club (he is a former president) and outside the club, knows he will do an excellent job. So congratulations and good luck congressman. 
The club would like to thank J. ROBERT 
LEHMAN '64, chairman, for a job well 
done on the Dec. 8 Mass and banquet. 
Bob was ably assisted by RUSS RAQUE 
'60. The many who attended thank Bob 
and Russ for an enjoyable evening. ROGER 
HUTER '40 has assured me that the 
scholarship fund campaign is going very 
well. Led by JOHN RIESERT '60 (with 
140) and BERNIE BOWLING '44 (with 90), sales are booming. If there are any who haven't returned tickets please do so, and thanks go to all our energetic salesmen. The club would again like to thank BILL SHERMAN '58 for a job well done on handling the ND-Ky game tickets. Bill makes a lot of friends before the game and 1 hope you don't have many enemies after the game, Bill. This is one of the toughest jobs the club has and Bill has handled it in the best possible manner. Our thanks again to Bill and those who assisted him. 
Mike Casper '64 

LEHIGH VALLEY 
The ND Club of the Lehigh Valley held its Family Mass and Breakfast on December 13, 1970 at the Allentown College of SL Francis DeSales, Center Valley, Pa. Mass was celebrated in the Brisson Seminary Chapel by Father BOB DEVINE '58. Father Devine celebrated a modem Mass with singing and Offertory procession by everyone attending ending in a semi-circle formation around the altar for the duration of the Mass. MIKE CARROLL '58 and ERC SPINOSA '57 were readers. David Spinosa, age II, served as altar boy. After the Mass a family breakfast was served in the dining hall. JIM ROWLANDS '57, president, gave a recap of the year's activities. Fifty-eight (58) ND alumni, friends and their families attended. Special guests were JIM SCHRADER'57, and NEIL WORDEN '54. 
Ercole J. Spinosa '57 
MICHIGAN CITY-LaPORTE 
This is to advise you that the Michigan City-LaPorte ND Club is doing very well. In the recent LaPorte County elections the following noted alumni were re-elected: ALBAN M. SMITH "27, judge Circuit Court; and JOHN P. DALEY '37, prosecut­ing attorney. Our Club President, AL SMITH '52, son of the Judge, has been appointed deputy city attorney of Michigan City. I have been appointed probation officer for LaPorte County, which is under the jurisdiction of the LaPorte County Circuit Court 
Our Club had a joint activity with the local Indiana U. Alumni and went over to see the ND-Indiana basketball game on Dec. 15. Our wives went along—we had a good time, even though we didn't like the outcome! On Dec. 20 our Club had a Corporate Communion at St. Mary's Church in Michigan City and an excellent breakfast at the local Holiday Iim, which was highlighted by a good supply of champagne. 
Robert A. Dowd '56 


MISSISSIPPI 
The ND Alumni Club of Jackson, Miss., 
held a Christmas Party on Dec. 18, at the 
home of Ed S. Thomas Jr. on the reservoir. 
The club used this occasion to introduce 
the new official University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association decal designed by 
Robert H. Canizaro and David M. Trigiani. 
(See article elsewhere in this issue.) The 
promotion and sale of this decal is the 
exclusive right of the Jackson Club, and 
proceeds from this project will be placed 
in a scholarship fund for future Notre Dame 
students from the State of Mississippi. 
Club members attending the party were: 
Mr. and Mrs. ERNEST THOMAS, Mr. and Mrs. S. N. THOMAS II, Mr. and Mrs. DAVID TRIGIANI, EDWARD S. THOMAS Jr. and Miss Hallie Kennington, Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL McNAMARA, Mr. and Mrs. DAVID McNAMARA, Mr. and Mrs. T. DOUGLAS McNAMARA, Mr. and Mrs. TOM ELZEN, Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD SCHMITZ, Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT H. CANIZARO, Mr. and Mrs. NICK HARKINS, Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE EVANS, Rev. MICHAEL RAFF, Rev. PAUL CANONICI, Rev. GEORGE BROUSSARD and Dr. and Mrs. DAVE BARLOW. 
David M. Trigiani '62 

MUSKEGON 
It is unusual for our club to be reporting any news at this time of the year but it was unusual for us to have a visit from the University in the very fine representatives, MIKE JORDAN '68 (His father CEC JORDAN '40 is a contemporary of mine and it was a delight for me personally to see the picture of his ol' dad in the face of his son), assistant alumni secretary and students, Joe White and Brian Zevnik. 
We gathered at the home of the tireless tycoon TYLER (STAN) '58 who presidents. the local faithful of the Muskegon Club and over booze and Bud (he sells the latter locally, along with Drewry's) we engaged in at times fiery but nevertheless fervent and forthright discussion confined mostly to the five R's, viz: Rules, Regulations, Rum, Religion and Romance—a la modem day admim'stration at the University vs. "the good ol* days." It was refreshing and stimulating (the conversation, I mean) and the Alumni Association Office is to be commended for the gesture. I think it helped to remove a lot of misunderstanding and rumors that the alumni are prone to rumble 
about. Earlier in the day the fellows called 
at two high schools, Muskegon Catholic 
Central and Mona Shores. 
Some of the local alumni who were able 

to attend and might like to see their names 
in print in the ALUMNUS included 
FRANK OEHLHOFFEN 11, BILL 
CANNON '40, BOB VOYT '55, JACK 
FITZPATRICK '59, JERRY FITZ­
PATRICK "61, DENNY DELANEY '52, 
TOM LIPPS '70, BILL TARDANI '50 and 
DAVE IMMONEN '58. 
Leo L. Linck '43 
NEW ORLEANS 
Congratulations to the Irish for emerging 
victorious in the hard fought ND-LSU 
game. However, L.S.U. Tiger fans never 

forget and are planning quite a welcome for 
the Irish when they invade Tiger Stadium 
next November. 
To insure that ND is well represented, 
the New Orleans Club is planning a gala 

weekend; including room reser\'ations at the 
headquarters hotel in New Orleans, a pep 
rally cocktail party on Friday night, and 
transportation to and from the game in 
Baton Rouge Saturday night While plans 

are still incomplete, anyone who is interested 
in making the trip should address inquiries 

to the Club at P.O. Box 51112, New Orieans, 
Louisiana 70150. 
The ND Concert Band is planning a 

performance in New Orleans at Jesuit High 
School Auditorium on March 18. A. Louis 
Read will be honored for his success as 
Chairman of the Summa Drive in New 
Orleans. 
Leon J. Reymond Jr. '64 
NEW YORK 

Plan now for Universal Notre Dame Night, Friday, April 23, 1971, at the Westchester Country Club, Rye, N.Y. Father JAMES T. BURTCHAELL CSC, Provost of the Uni­versity, will be our honored guest and principal speaker. Father is the second-ranking University official. All of our New York members should make a special effort to hear his important and timely remarks. 
There is plenty of parking at the West­chester Country Club, and it is surprisingly easy to get to from any point in New York Gity, as well as Nassau-Suffolk. Superb cocktails, dinner, and dancing, set in the springtime beauty of Westchester, will be enjoyed by all. Several years ago the Club adopted the policy of alternating between Nassau-Suffolk and Westchester-Rockland-Putnam for U.N.D. Night, to bring at least one major club event close at hand to the members in their own respective areas. Naturally, we look for a large contingent of our Westchester area alumni, wives, and friends at this most important dinner dance. GERRY SAEGERT '40, assisted by GENE MAGUIRE '49 and CHARLIE KOEGLER '47 promise us a superb evening. 
Now is a good time to mark your calendar for an important weekend of spiritual renewal, the Club's Annual Retreat, April 29 to May 2, at the St. Ignatius Retreat House, Manhasset, Long Island. The beautiful brick and stone retreat house is situated on a rolling estate. It is a perfect oasis for reflection, self-analysis, and spiritual planning for the future. It is one-half mile north of the Long Island Expressway, at Exit 36, on Searingtown Road. TOM 

BRADLEY '30 is chairman. 
Your correspondent is happy to report a 

record turnout for the Annual Communion 
Dinner, Dec. 8, where we were pleased to 
welcome and hear Father JOHN J. 
CAVANAUGH CSC, President emeritus 
of the University, and now chaplain to SL 
Mary's College. Our Former Club Presidents 
Group held its annual get-together at this 
event, and almost all were there—from 
JOHN BALFE '20, founder and first Club 
President in 1923, right up to the recent 
past As chairman, many thanks to the 
committee: DEON SUTTON '31, TOM 
BRADLEY "30, RAY KELLY '61, 
GEORGE CRONGEYER '28, BARNEY 
DEL BELLO '56, GUS HARDART '42, 
GORDON FORESTER '47, and especially, 
JOE HUIZENGA '46. 
New arrivals in the Club area please give us a call at the Club Office, 420 Lexington Ave., New York 10017, 212-685-4254, so that we may put you on our mailing list and membership roster. 
Paul T. Smith '60 
PEORIA 
On Dec. 8, the ND Club had a family 
guitar Mass in the evening at Bergan High 
in lieu of a Communion breakfast. Atten­
dance was better than it had been running 
for Communion breakfasts. We all enjoyed 
New Year's Day more than ever before, of 
course. Our regular First Friday luncheon 
was held on Jan. 8 and local high school 
seniors who have applied to ND were 
present to meet and talk with alumni and 
present students. Discussions of things as 
they are now and were then were most 
interesting for all in attendance. 
Mike Ryan '64L 
PHILADELPHIA 
Election of the new officers and Board of 
Governors took place at our Club meeting 
on Jan. 12. The following were elected: 
Officers: THOMAS J. SHALLOW '63— 

president; EDWARD B. BRODERICK '58 
—vice president; JOSEPH M. HILGER '60 
—treasurer; JAMES H. KELLY '64— 
secretary. 
New Members of Board of Governors: 

GEORGE V. MITCHELL, JR. '58; 
MATTHEW H. McCLOSKEY '63; 
JOSEPH M. HILGER '60; FRANK H. 
CARVER '64; EDWARD B. BRODERICK 
'58. ^ 
Board of Govenors:,with one year remain­

ing: ROBERT J. MITCHELL '60; JAMES 
H. KELLY '64; JOHN P. DONOHUE "54 PATRICK W. KITTREDGE '58; CLIF­FORD E. PRODEHL '32—Permanent Chairman. 
Post Game Rally: A post-game rally was scheduled following the "Fighting Irish"-VilIanova basketball game on February 11. 
At the club meeting our outgoing presi­dent was given a standing ovation for a job well done. The year 1970 was a very successful year for the club and each and every active member hopes for the same in '71. The meeting terminated following a film on the new Athletic and Convocation Center at Notre Dame. 
Jim KeUy '64 

QUAD CITIES 
The facilities of St Joseph's Manor, Bettendorf, Iowa, were taxed to their limit by a crowd of almost 80 persons attending the annual Mass and Banquet sponsored by the ND Club of the Quad-Cities on Dec. 
8. A guitar Mass, featuring the music of the Marist Seminarians, was followed by a cocktail hour and dinner. Rev. Robert Welch of the U. of Iowa, School of Religion, was the featured speaker. Father Welch commented on the relationship of the church to today's youth. ROBERT FRANDSEN '53 and R. J. (BUZZ) FINN '56 were co-chairmen for the enjoyable event 
Robert J. Noe '63 
ROCHESTER 
Catching up on some old news, the Rochester Club had its second business meeting of the year on Nov. 13. The evening's attraction was our annual football ticket contest PAUL GERACE sold the winning chance to the ND-Southem California game. On Nov. 24, the ND Glee Club visited the Rochester area for a successful concert Club President JOHN GLAVIN worked with the Lions Club of Scottsville in sponsoring the trip. Our annual Christmas Dance was held at Locust Hill Country Club on Dec. 26. Approximately 200 Alumni and guests celebrated the holiday season. Mr. and Mrs. PAUL GERACE handled the arrangements most successfully. 
Jim McGuire '58 
RORIE 
Open House as usual for Christmas with 
the ND students in studies abroad savoring 
the hospitality. Added to sophomores from 
Angers and Innsbruck we welcomed one 
of the ND Law students studying with the 
London Program: TOM MISENER '69. 
From campus EDWARD BECK 71 with 
mother. 
And either side of Christmas: ND's own Mr. ND, BERNARD VOLL *17 and wife; CRAIG HILLYER '59 and wife; DR. DANIEL SHEA '48 and wife; RUSSELL JANDOLI '40 and wife; JOSEPH DRENANE '30; STEVE FERGUSON 70; GEORGE O'CONNOR '31; JERRY LINN '32; RALPH ZIOLA '59; son of ROBERT KENDALL '31. 
PAUL VI '60 holds public audience each Wednesday forenoon. He also blesses and speaks publicly from his window each Sunday noon. 
Notre Dame Hospitality Center welcomes you at 82 Largo Brancaccio, Tel.: 730.002, near Central Rail-Air Terminal. 
Vince McAloon '34 

RHODE ISLAND 
About 30 members of the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massa­chusetts gathered Nov. 28 in Cumberland for a holiday party at the chalet of Gerald Riley. 
The affair, which was to be a combination 
holiday party and victory celebration, was 
a bit subdued for a few minutes as the 
members brooded over the inhospitality of 
the Southern California football team. 
However, everyone confidently looked 
forward to the Cotton Bowl match with 
Texas which everyone was sure would 
residt in a ND victory, probably by a score 
of 24 to U. 
JAMES V. CONLON JR. '65, president, 
arranged for the use of the building. Riley, 
a Dartmouth graduate, was in an even 
more generous mood than ever after his 
alma mater successfully completed an 
undefeated gridiron campaign. 
MIKE MONTI '59, vice president, was 
chairman of the party. Among the guests 
was REMO V. MAZZONE of Cumberland, 
who, along with his wife, attended his 
first club function in some time. 
About 10 club members also attended 
the 22nd annual Communion breakfast of 
the Catholic Association of College Alumni 
and the International Federation of 
Catholic Alumnae at the Biltmore Hotel 
in Providence on Dec. 13. 
U.S. Sen. Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island was the principal speaker. The breakfast was preceded by a Mass at the Cathedral of SS. Peter and Paul in Providence. 
Bob Chiappinelli '62 
ST. LOUIS 
Recently, the SL Louis Club sent new roster cards to each alumnus in the area. To date, 257 men have returned cards allowing us to start the process of updating our records. We thank those who have responded and especially those who for­warded the name of an area alum who is not presently on our mailing list We would like to hear from everyone and will make another mailing to those we have not heard from. 
The St. Louis-UND Basketball game on Dec. 12 was well attended and thanks go to RON SZWEDA "61 and RICH CON­NORS "63 for their efforts in obtaining and distributing the tickets for the St. Louis Club. Whew! That was close! JOE McGLYNN '55 is heading into the home stretch with his plans for the biggest St. Patrick's Day Parade ever held in St. Louis. To encourage more participation, the parade will be held on Saturday morning, March 13. You will be hearing more about this in club mailings but note the date and plan to participate. BILL OTTEN '62 has the club scholarship program in gear again. His communications with high school counselors will result in applications from seniors that Bill and his committee will evaluate. Interviews of the most promising applicants will follow and the entire selection process, including coordination with ND's Admissions Office, should be completed by early March. As in the past, the winner will be introduced at UND Night 
One of our most active members, WALT DONNELLY '58, is being transferred to Chicago. Your many friends wish you the best, Walt. 
Paul Gund '63 by attending morning Mass in the Cathedral of Our Lady of Lourdes. After Miiss breakfast was enjoyed in the Arcade Room of the Ridpath Hotel. The guest speaker was the Very Rev. Daniel C. Weber, S.J., rector of Gonzaga Preparatory School, who boasts of a summer session at ND. 
Following breakfast election of officers for the next two years took place, with the result that our new President is JEROME 
F. NEVIN '67; our Vice President, HAROLD W. SHEERAN '50; and our perennial Secretary-Treasurer, JOE WALSH '14. 
Plans are being made for a big Universal Notre Dame Night celebration about April 15. 
Joe Walsh '14 
TULSA 
The Tulsa Club, with JACK CHARON the main organizer, chartered a bus for the Cotton Bowl and about 45 staunch Irish backers made the trip. Needless to say, it was a tremendous success primarily due to the well-deserved victory, but just as much for the club's scholarship fund which received the proceeds of the trip. Bulletins have been posted at the local high schools to interview applicants for a new scholarship. Currently there are two in effect so this will be a new commitment for the club. 
The next get-together will be in February and will feature the Cotton Bowl film and the season highlights. Details of the function will follow in the next issue. 
G. K. Miller '58 
TOLEDO 
On Tuesday evening, Dec. 29, the ND Club of Toledo held its Christmas Dance at Belmont Country Club. The committee worked long and hard to make this the well attended aifair that it was. A delicious buffet breakfast was served at the end of the evening. One of the higUi^its of the festivities was the presentation of a Cotton Bowl Trip for Two. The chainnen for the social event were the DICK MERKELs and they were ably assisted by the PAT DOOLEYs, the JOHN HA'yWARDs, the JIM SILKs, and the JOHN WETLIs. 
Bob O'Neill '53 

TWIN CITIES 
The Planning Committee met in early January to organize the activities for the coming year. Some of the events taldne place in the next few months are the Auxiliary Bowling and Smorgasboard Party on Feb. 27 and Uie Old Log Theater and Dinner Party on March 21. Universal Notre Dame Night is scheduled for the latter-part of April; a definite date will be announced when confirmation is received from the guest speaker. 
If you did not receive the recent letter sent out by the club in January, contact President Len Mrachek (941-3121). 
Mike Harron '62 

VIRGINIA 
In conjunction with the Villanova Club of 
Richmond, our local ND Club plans a trip to Philadelphia on Feb. 11 for the Irish-Villanova basketball game. Club President, FRANK WALLMEYER '63 is handling reservations. Local alumni who suffered for a full year since the 1970 Cotton Bowl defeat were ecstatic over the 1971 triumph. Many of our local friends are exponents of the "superior" Southern brand of football, a la Texas Wishbone. 
MIKE HYLAND '58, is a sports writer for the Richmond News Leader. JOHN HARDING '60, recentiy moved from Houston to take a position with a local 
ASTRO SALUTE—Officers of the Houston Club meet in the Astro Dome. Left to right are: Paul Doyle '36, member of the board of directors; Ralph Sauer '60, treasurer; Joe 
SPOKANE 
Echelle '62, president; Dr. Larry Stuart '59, Bob Dillon '48 and Joe Higgings '57, all mem­Club members and their wives observed bers of the board; and Fr. Rivers Patout '60, secretary. Officials of the club not pictured Universal Communion Sunday on Dec. 6 are Peter Doyle '63 and Leo Lindbeck Jr. '56, member of the board. 
advertising firm. JERRY OWINGS '60, was recently admitted as a partner with the law firm, Spinella, Spinella & Owings. 
T. WILSON HOTZE, JR. '59, away skiing in Europe, recently set up his own law partnership. Will is still one of the Club's more eligible bachelors. DON FALEY '59, former Irish track star, is now handling driver education for the city public schools. 
The next club event will be a Communion Breakfast. Plans are incomplete at this time . . . And BERNIE NIERLE keeps turning out sausage and pizza at a furious pace. 
Frank D. Carpin '62 
WALL STREET 

Robert H. Stovall, Head of Research, Reynolds & Co. and frequent contributor of articles for financial newspapers and magazines, provided our Wall Street alumni with impressive, in-depth determinations of his firm and himself regarding financial markets of the future. Stovall also answered numerous questions from the audience, after his talk. 
Our next meeting will be held in the New York Stock Exchange Lunch Room, 11 Wall Street, Feb. 24. All alumni involved in the financial communities are invited to attend. 
Deon Sutton '31 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

On Nov. 18 the ND Club of Washington, D.C, held the annual open meeting of club members at the University Club. Speakers for the evening were GEORGE DICKSON '50, assistant coach of the Washington Redskins and a student panel consisting of DAVE KRASHNA, present student body president at the University of ND, TOM OLIVERI and GUY DESAPIO, former editor of the Observer. Also MIKE JORDAN from the Alumni Office was in attendance. The affair was arranged by RAY RAEDY '60. 
The November monthly luncheon featured Sen. Jack Miller of Iowa, former law professor at ND. His topic was "Crucial Points of the 70's." In honor of the 




Record 
ENGAGEMENTS 
Miss Laura Waters to WILLIAM T. HEIDEN JR. '68. Miss Sharon Touma to WALTER F. (Bud) FINAN '69. Miss Mary Jane Miller to JOHN J. KOCH "70. 
feast of the Immaculate Conception a folk Mass was held Dec. 8 at Blessed Sacrament in Chevy Chase. Rev. JOHN FORD CSC, club chaplain, was celebrant and JIM GAMMON '56 directed the music. Immediately after Mass a wine and cheese party was conducted. CLIFF LETCHER '40 and BILL MIDDENDORF '43 provided the leadership for this affair. At the December monthly luncheon RICHARD LYNG '40, Assistant Secretary of Agriculture presented an interesting talk. The Club's luncheon program continued to have tremendous success with over 60 in attendance in January. JIM HANNAN '60 who was recently traded by the Washington Senators to the Detroit Tigers was the speaker. 
On Jan. 16 the Community Action group sponsored a birthday party for the senior citizens at St Joseph's Home for the Aged, conducted by the Little Sisters of the Poor. The afternoon festivities began with music provided by JIM GAMMON '56, traveling musicians and finished up with the traditional candle blowing. GAR ISACCO '66 became photographer and provided instant snapshots for the guests. PETE CANNON '56, club president, presented gifts to all having birthdays during January. HARRY DUTKO '56 was chairman of the affair. 
Recent deaths in the area: BOB COONEY '30 died of a heart attack on Veterans Day. Our sympathies to Mrs. Cooney and family; Dr. JOHN SYZDEK, on Jan. 6, '71; and Helen Casey, wife of JIM CASEY, Nov. 14. Our condolences to Jim. 
Future events: St Patrick's Day Party and Club Elections in March. UNO Night to be held April 29 on Capitol Hill. REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC is to be the speaker. Make plans to attend this function now. Another year has started—^Are you a Club member? Do you Participate? Contact Harry Dutko at 6307 64th Ave., E. Riverdale, Md. 20840. 
Harry A. Dutko '56 
>VESTERN WASHINGTON 
The Area I Senate meeting was held in San Francisco in early November, and was attended by President JAMES LYONS and Senator JOHN GAGLIARDINI as 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Sandra Ann Thompson and J. RAYMOND FITZPATRICK JR. '60, Nov. 7. 
Miss Jo Anne Kinzie and DANIEL J. CASTELLANf '63, May 23. Miss Carol Ann Murphy and Dr. DAVID RICHARD FEDERICK '63, Dec. 30. Miss Sheriyl Ann Allison and JOHN VINCENT HENNIGAN '63, Dec. 19. Miss Nancy M. Healy and MICHAEL HAGGERTY '65, Nov. 28. Miss Mary Bramlage and MICHAEL H. MINTON '68, Nov. 28. Miss Penelope Haller and ALFRED L. MORIN '68. Miss Linda Prasil and JOHN T. RANK '69, July 25. Miss Ann Goehausen and JOHN (Jay) M. RADOVICH 70, Sept 11. 
well as representatives from all far west locations. The agenda included discussion on matters of admission, minority enrollment, student affairs, religion at ND, and club organization. JOE MULLIGAN advised the senate of admissions programs and activities being conducted throughout our nation; he pointed to the importance of the admission and minority enrollment programs and how aggressive all alumni should be in matters of admission enrollment DOUG CAPPELA opened the discussion of student life at the University presenting student feeling, thought and action; and established a very effective dialogue with all concerned senators and directors. The issue of religion and the conference itself was led by Alumni Secretary JIM COONEY; Jim pointed to the changes and improvements experienced at ND, and appointment and programs that were being conducted and led by Fr. BILL TOUHEY. Club organization was a topic of mutual concern and substantial action with the purpose of adding additional strength and vitality to the Alumni Association; by adding the involvement of younger alumni, and increasing the attendance and participation of all ND men, families, friends, and parents. 
November was closed with a highly successful evening meeting held at the college club. Many new and interesting faces appeared, interesting and informative dialogue was the pattern of the evening. JIM KINNANE brought along ND's '69 Football Highlights and filled us in, on additional activities and programs conducted by, for and at ND. 
MILLARD BATTLES and his wife, 

Jerry, hosted the Communion Breakfast on 
Dec. 6, Fr. Lynch met with many of the 
35 who attended the activity in Kent, 
Washington. 
January '71 events included a Board of Directors meeting, and a continuation of the second "Thursday of the month luncheon program. 
In closing, I wish to praise the ND team for a very commendable season. Coach and players alike demonstrated the excellence, that special excellence only ND is blessed with. To me, ND is the best team in the country, Joe Theismann is the best quarterback, and Ara is the best coach. 
J. J. Gagliardini '58 
ADOPTION 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN SHUFF '62, a son, David Ryan, born Sept 8. 

BIRTHS 
Dr. and Mrs. PANOS BARDIS M.A. '53, a son, Jason Dante, Dec. 15. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT H. DAVIDSON 
'54, a daughter, Bridget Consuelo, Dec. 7. Mr. and Mrs. EMMET P. CASSIDY '55, a daughter, Elaine Frances, Dec. 21. 
Dr. and Mrs. GORDON J. DiRENZO '56, a daughter, Maria Giulia, Oct 30. Mr. and Mrs. DONALD L. CURLOVIC '60, a son, David Welsh, Nov. 18. 
Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. BARTLETT JR. '61, a daughter, Jacqueline Louise, Sept 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. MAURICE J. DeWALD 

'62, a daughter, Michelle Jean, Oct. 16. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. McNAMARA '62, twin daughters, Kelly and Kerry, Oct 11. 
Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK MURPHREE '62, a son, Patrick Thomas, Sept. 25. Mr. and Mrs. WAYNE N. ALLEN '64, a son, Kevin Paul, Nov. 30. Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR C. SWIRTZ '64, '67L, a son, Matthew, Sept. 30. Dr. and Mrs. JOHN L. CRARY '65, a son, Patrick William, in December. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS N. HINCHEY II '65, a daughter, Elizabeth Kathleen, Dec. 14. 
Mr. and Mrs. CLIFFORD R. O'BRYAN '66, a son, John A. O'Bryan II, inarch 10, 1970. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN JORDAN '67, a son, Michael Andrew, in December. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. NORRETT '67, a son, Brendan Christopher, Dec. 11. Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL T. TUTKO II '67, a daughter, Linda Marie, Nov. 16. Mr. and Mrs. JERRY BERTHOLD '67L, a son, Jeffrey, in June. Mr. and Mrs. JACK COUCH '67L, a daughter, Courtney Elizabeth, May 13. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. MOLLISON '67L, a son, Robert Alan, in October. Mr. and Mrs. KEVIN G. KADE '68, a daughter, Cassady Anne. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES WIRTZ '68L, a son, James Francis, Nov. 13. Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS P. CARR '69, a son, Sean David, Nov. 29. Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN KIRBY '69, a daughter, Nov. 17. Mr. and Mrs. DAVID G. LARIMER '69L, a daughter, Beth, in 1970. Mr. and Mrs. MERLE F. WILBERDING '69L, a daughter, Abigail Anne, in October. Mr. and Mrs. LOUIS GENTINE -70, a son, Thomas Anthony, Nov. 25. 

SYMPATHY 
WALTER A. RICE '21 on the death of his wife, April 7. WARD W. McCARRON '25, on the death of his wife, Florence. JOSEPH NULTY '27 on the death of his wife, Helen, Dec. 31. 
FRANK HAGENBARTH JR. '27, on the death of his brother, David V. (ND 70-22) on Nov. 28. 
VINCENT PENOTE 78 on the death of his mother, Jan. 8. Dr. JOHN A. VAICHULIS 79, on the death of his wife, Anne, June 3. 
BURTON McENEARNEY '39, on the death of his son, Charles E., ex-'68, Dec. 11, in Trinidad, W.I. 
Dr. WILLIAM R. WICKS '40 on the death of his son. Dr. Thomas William Wicks, Oct. 18. 
THOMAS R. BLOHM '42 on the death of his father, George C. Blohm, Nov. 3. RICHARD CLEARY '50 on the death of his son, Michael. DAVID W. MEDWID '51, on the death of his father, Philip Medwid, Sept 10. 
LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER JR. '52, JAMES E. '56 and CHARLES D. '63, on the death of their father. Dr. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, M.S. '31, Ph.D. '33, Nov. 28. 
FRANK L. McGINN "52 and JOHN H. '54 on the death of their father, 
S. Francis McGinn, Sept. 27. 
WILLIAM M. BRONDER '55, on the death of his father, Victor J. Bronder Sr., Aug. 17. 
ROBERT E. GRIFFIN '57, on the 
death of his mother, Mrs. Emmett Griffin, 
in January. 
DONALD J. RENIER '57 on the 
death of his father, James N. Renier, in 
January. 

RICHARD W. CARNEY '58, on the 
death of his father, BERNARD R. 
CARNEY 71, Nov. 12. 
GARY V. ZIMMERMAN '58 on the 
death of his father, Vincent Zimmerman. 
WILLIAM H. BARTLEY '59 on the 
death of his father, MALCOLM L. '31. 
Capt. JAMES D. BURDEN, USN '59 on 
the death of his wife, Jean, Sept 27. 
CRAIG A. HILLYER '59 on the death 
of his father, Clifford L. Hillyer, 
Jan. 25, 1970. 
DENNIS M. NEAD '59 on the death 
of his mother, Oct 5. 
E. PATRICK ROBISON '59 and F. JAMES '66, on the death of their father, 
F. WELLS ROBISON '34, Nov. 20. JOHN J. WOLF '59 on the death of his father, Herbert Wolf, in September. 
ALLEN A. McCUSKER '60 on the 
death of his father, Arthur J. McCusker, 
Oct 6. 

THOMAS REARDON JR. '61 and 
KEVIN '69 on the death of their father, 
THOMAS A. REARDON 74, Jan. 2. 
DAVID J. MENZIE '62 on the death of 
his father, Joseph William Menzie, Dec. 28. 
WILLIAM C. MANION '64-65, on the 
death of his father. Dr. W. C. Manion, 
Nov. 5. 

JAMES P. SEYMOUR '69 on the death of his father, Bartholomew L., Dec. 4. 

DEATHS 
ARTHUR W. KUTSCHE '93, Dec. 23, 
in Detroit Mich. 
REV. RICHARD J. COLLENTINE 
CSC '09, Jan. 16 in Holy Cross Hall, 
Notre Dame. 
JOSEPH J. COLLINS 'II, April 13. He 
is survived by his family at 2021 Medford 
Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich. 48104. 
WILLIAM C. HENRY '16, Dec. 16. 
He is survived by his family at 17537 
Greenbay, Lansing, III. 60438. 
BERNARD R. CARNEY 71, Nov. 12. 
He is survived by his widow at 2658 
S. Columbia PI., Tulsa, Okla. 74114, and a son RICHARD W. '58. 
DR. DANIEL J. CARR 71, Oct 18. He is survived by his family at 717 Harvey Ave., Greensburg, Pa. 15601. He is survived by three daughters and two sons. 
THOMAS A. REARDON 74, Jan. 2. He is survived by his widow, Irene, 9845 S. Seeley Ave., Chicago, III. 60643; three sons, THOMAS JR. '61, KEVIN '69 and Daniel, and four sisters. 
GEORGE E. TOHULKA 75, Aug, 5. He is survived by his family at 2919 Calumet Ave., Elkhart Ind. 46514. 
LAWRENCE F. KRIEGER 76, Jan. I. He is survived by his widow. Marguerite, 1220 Hillcrest Ave., St Joseph, Mich. 49085; two sons, a daughter, two sisters and seven grandchildren. 
DANIEL F. CUNNINGHAM 77, Nov. 
16. He is survived by his widow, Rita, 334 Burns St, Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375. 
DANIEL D. HICKEY 77, Feb. 9. He is survived by a sister. Miss Loretta Hickey, 260 E. Chestnut St, Chicago, 111. 60611. 
ALOIS A. HOFFMAN 77, Oct 10. He is survived by his widow, Rosemary, 
Route 1, Box 45, Stevens Pomt, Wis. 54481. 
EDWARD JOSEPH MOWERY 78, Dec. 19. He is survived by hi? widow, Margaret, 45 Ingram St, Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375, a daughter and two grandchildren. 
CHARLES S. MURPHY 78, in December. He is survived by his widow at 854 S. Citrus Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 90036. 
JOHN F. MORAN 79, March 12, 1970. He is survived by his family at 115 Jennette Dr., Youngstown, Ohio 44512. 
ROBERT A. COONEY '30, Nov. 11. He is survived by his widow, 2000 F St N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006. 
DR. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER M.S. '31, Ph.D. '33, Nov. 28. He is survived by his widow, Helen, 1234 Hillcrest Rd., South Bend, Ind. 46617; three sons, LAWRENCE JR. '52, JAMES E. '56 and CHARLES D. '63; a daughter and 11 grandchildren. 
MALCOLM L. BARTLEY '31, Jan. 16, 1970. He is survived by his widow, Elise, 8656 Delmar St, St Louis, Mo. 63124 and a son WILLIAM H. '59. 
ALBERT (Pete) COWLES '31, Dec. 29, He is survived by his widow, Gladys, 211 Hoffman St, Newark, N.Y. 14513. 
JOHN J. MALIK '31, Oct 10. He is survived by his widow, Alice, 3381 Belmont St, Bellaire, Ohio 43906. 
ROBERT P. SULLIVAN '33, Nov. 4. He is survived by his widow, 205 E. Magnolia St, Stockton, Calif. 94202. 
F. WELLS ROBISON '34, Nov. 20. He is survived by his widow, Alice, 4169 Harvard Rd., Detroit Mich. 48224; two sons, E. PATRICK '59 and F. JAMES '66; two daughters and eight grandchildren. 
REYMAN E. BONAR '35, Nov. 28. He is survived by his family at Bellaire, Ohio. 
WILLIAM LAWRENCE JONES '36, of Jackson, Tenn., April 4. 
REV. BERNARD F. FLYNN '38, in 1970, St Peter's Rectory, Superior Ave. and 17th St, Cleveland, Ohio 44114. 
WILLIAM H. MALESH '39, Dec. 10. He is survived by his widow, Violet 1805 Briarcliff Rd., BalU'more, Md., a son and a daughter. 
STANLEY J. PODD '39 at Greenwich, Conn. 
WILLIAM J. STURM '41, in November. He is survived by his widow at 6180 Heather Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 38117. 
MAJ. STANLEY E. KRIVIK '49, Oct 
31. He is survived by his widow, 123A Fir St., Eglin AFB, Fla. 
EDWARD V. MADDEN '49, Oct 16, 1970. He is survived by his widow, 11912 Villa Dorado Dr., Creve Coeur, Mo. 63141 and a son, Terrence P., a sophomore at ND. 
LEO M. RUMELY JR. '49, Oct 7. He is survived by his widow at Cricklewood Lane, Norwalk, Conn. 06851. 
MAJ. VINCENT P. NOLAN '60, October, in airplane crash. He is survived by his widow, 7 Van Buren, Cheny Point N.C. 
B. L. SEYMOUR '65-66, in December. He is survived by his family at 1811 Beverly Blvd., Berkley, Mich. 48072. 
ALEXANDER T. GARLO '66, Sept 29. He is survived by his father, O. C. Garlo, 53 Clay St, Tiffin, Ohio 44883. 
LT. (J.G.) THOMAS F. HANAGAN '69, Nov. 16. He is survived by his widow and by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Francis 
P. Hanagan, 106 W. Sunrise Dr., Lexington Park, Md. 20653. 
I i die DihHmii Of die Herns 
by James D. Cooney Executive Secretary, Alumni Assoc. 
Notre Dame's magnificent Cotton Bowl triumph called to mind that most new challenges require innova­tive response. The Texas Longhorns didn't seem to know what hit them. From the second play of the game (we'll forget that first one) to the final gun. Royal's charges were off balance. They had met their match in the personnel of a superbly condi­tioned and coached Notre Dame team. Ara throttled the most devas­tating offense in college football by creating an imaginative response—a defensive mirror of the Wishbone T. 
NBC-TV ("First Tuesday,"Decem­ber 1), and Sports Illustrated (Decem­ber 14) took a couple of long intimate looks at today's Notre Dame, and for the most part came up with accurate portrayals. A measure of what was re­ported was distressful for some, to be sure. There's no intention here to critique the presentations, but it is interesting to note some of the re­action generated. "First Tuesday" mail ran about 5-3 favorable. The majority of favorable respondents were alumni. With rare exceptions, those objecting to the piece were persons who had little or no association with the Uni­versity . . . persons who apparently had harbored an image of the institu­tion which didn't jibe with the tele­vision version. For the most part, they condemned the University for a religious "sell-out," pointing to Simon and Garfunkel Masses, the handling of the Eucharist, collarless priests, etc., as evidence that ND had lost its soul. The "pro" group largely ap­plauded what they considered were ND's enlightened attitudes toward to­day'^ college youth. 
This latter point should give some comfort to ND faculty and adminis­trators, since their major task is deal­ing with young people. And what a task it is! Tried and true methods of handling the young don't seem to carry the weight they used to. And it's not because the methods were in­valid, but because the young have changed. To operate Notre Dame on the same restrictive basis we knew 10 years ago or more would be asking for early demise as a University. We're not plugging for total permis­siveness here. Mature guidance and counsel must continue to be impor­tant commodities as long as the chief occupants of college campuses are a few short years out of high school. 
But, an inkling of how youth is changing—and therefore how ND's response to the challenge they repre­sent must be equally malleable—rests in some statistics compiled recently (Roper Research). 43% of Catholic students in colleges and universities today indicate that they do not attend Mass regularly. 45% consider abor­tion permissible regardless of the cir­cumstances. Of all college students (Catholic and non) only about 25% believe sex should be reserved solely for one's marriage partner. Also, pver one quarter (the figure is probably much higher) have experimented with some varieties of drugs. 
Perhaps none of these statistics is startling. We've known for some time that basic values are changing. How rapidly they are changing is per­haps more unsettling than the statis­tics themselves. For example, the abortion attitude was reported in Uni­versity Index, a campus opinion poll in November of last year. The poll pointed out that the percentage of Catholic college students approving abortion under any circumstances al­most doubled between March and November of last year! 
The Mass attendance question— one that raises more Notre Dame eyebrows than almost any other sub­ject—is not too surprising. A Gallup poll this month indicates that only 60% of adult Catholics attend Mass in a typical week. The University has not done an authoritative study in re­cent years on just how many students attend Mass. Nor has there been a probe on drug usage or sex. Besides being nearly impossible to ascertain what should such statistics prove any­way? That we've got a problem with today's youth? No one will deny that problems exist. It is doubtless that some students don't go to Mass on Sunday, that some students are ex­perimenting with drugs, that there is some promiscuity. These are interna­tional phenomena. And not just with the young. 
All of this is by way of suggesting that in its mission to somehow uplift the young, Notre Dame must con­stantly explore new methods, new techniques. It must in short create a different kind of environment here, because we're dealing with a different kind of student. In so doing, the Uni­versity is not selling out the past, but fixing its eyes on the future convinced that new challenges must be met with fresh response. Ara and company did it in Dallas. And that was the 'horns' dilemma. 

NOTHING GAINED 
Walter Cronkite told me tonight that 26 died in combat last week. Another 32 died in non-combat operations. The figures didn't impress me. I've been listening to them since John F. Kennedy had his head blown off in Dallas. 
The ALUMNUS came today. Did not get a chance to read it until after Walter and dinner. The news of '6S stated ". . . would like to extend sin­cere condolences and prayers to the parents of Bruce W. Heskett who was killed in Vietnam " Wait a minute, Bruce'Heskett—^yeah. I knew a Bruce Heskett . . . sincere condolences. He lived in Washington State, drove that old Studebaker, was a rugger, hung with Tolan and O'Neal, gonna get married after graduation, do some hunting, work a ranch, nature and the mountains. One hitch—a ROTC com­mitment—then he was home free. 
Couldn't be the same fella, but it is, and he's dead, and the war con­tinues. Why? Well, Lyndon Johnson was deluded, misguided, confused and wrong. Richard Nixon doesn't want to lose, wants to negotiate from strength, and is consumed with John­son's same historic monomania, won­dering how he'll be remembered in the annals of time. 
My point, fellow alumni, is to ask you to demand an end to the war in Vietnam. We are members of a Chris­tian community. One that professes to follow the tenets of Jesus Christ and dedicates itself to the memory and glory of His mother. No one else should go. Not yourself, not your son, not your grandson. It is useless, end­less and insane. Bruce Heskett is dead and so are many more of our alumni. Nothing has been gained. Nothing has been accomplished. Nothing has been delivered. 

Thomas F. McKenna '68 1932 Cragmont, Apt. 27 Madison, Ind. 47250 

POPULATION EXPLOSION 
Upon receiving my ballot to select new members to the Alumni Board I was concerned to note that the nine married candidates had among them a total of fifty-five children—an aver­age of more than six children per family. One need not here go into the mathematics involved in calculat­ing what bur population would be in X number of years if every married couple had 6.1 children. Nor is it necessary to point out the relationship between a high rate of population growth and the strains placed upon political, economic and environmental systems. Yet, it behooves us to con­sider the implications which that bastion of the faith—the large Cath­olic family—has for those not so close to us. In particular, I am think­ing of those who live in what some are pleased to call the "undeveloped countries," (those countries, paradox­ically, where many ND students spend their summers working with the poor) whose natural resources are 
being taken from them in order that America's conspicuous consumption may be satisfied—in order that the 10 children of Sean Irish (ND Class of '41) may have every needless con­venience and comfort that our run­away standard of living can provide. These American children will demand much in the way of goods, services and resources and American business will try to meet these demands, but at what price? At the price, I would suggest, of an American environment which is increasingly unfit to live in, and continued poverty for millions of our fellows on this planet. 
Peter James McDade '67 354 Commonwealth Ave. Boston, Mass. 02115 
ND BECOMES CATHOLIC AT LAST 
I smile to see how the term "Cath­olic" is being tossed around in the Alumni Association these days. Just to illustrate a point I am enclosing a check simply because I sincerely feel that at long last ND is actually be­ginning to be concerned with the es­sence of being Catholic rather than to be wrapped up in the appearance of being Catholic. To my way of think­ing ND has become an active force (at last, thank God) in filling the ach­ing void that previous concentrations of concern had hidden behind a flashy pageantry of ecclesiasticalism by the numbers. 
It is no accident that the publisher 
of Our Sunday Visitor wraps himself 
in wrathful concern over the external 
appearance of the University and has 
less than nothing to offer in programs 
that replace form with substance. 
It seems to me that those whose 
faith is disturbed and shaken when 
the facade and ornamentation of the 
Church is changed or removed have 
no real understanding of the basic 
and primary importance of the truths 
upon which that ornamentation was 
just so much cosmetics. It is heart­
breaking to tell those alumni that they 
have been taught to focus on super­
ficialities and trained to casuistry, yet 
it is so. 
Denis K. O'Meara '39 512 Grafscap Rd. Holland, Mich. 49423 

ENCOURAGED 
Congratulations on the great issue of ALUMNUS, December '70. Just this minute I finished reading it from cover to cover. Your feature articles were very interesting. Father Hes­burgh's letter was very encouraging. Some people I know are quick to criticize our dear ND for such esca­pades while they never think to give the least amount of praise for all the good that is done by the ND com­munity. Having read Fr. Hesburgh's letter, hopefully I will be able to give them a better answer the next time they direct their criticism of ND to me. 
I am very happy to be included in the Notre Dame family. Keep up your good work. My prayers for your continued success. 
Sister M. Antoine Brogovic, M.S. '59 
14020 Euclid Ave. 
E. Cleveland, Ohio 44112 
MORAL ASTIGMATISM AT ND 
I am glad that the author of the world-renowned "Victory March"— the late Mr. John F. Shea—^happily chose the word "old" as a modifier in 
the buoyant lyric that begins: "Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame ... " There is indeed so much to cheer about in the ND of a past day, before an in­tellectual and moral astigmatism de­stroyed her Christian vision. 
It appears that today the aim of the administration, so uidike its modest predecessors, is the complete secular­ization of the scholastic community. Its goal is as worn and weary as the anti-intellectual heresy of Gnosticism: knowledge being equated with wis­dom. I am not of that breed that takes much comfort in a condescending recognition of "Our Lady" by some scholastic institutions looked upon as being prestigious, high-toned and fashionably referred to as "ivy league." (One should be certain that the vine is not of the poison ivy variety.) It is not with any optimism that I envision Notre Dame's future. What with the toadying to under­graduate immaturity, arrogance and defiance, the prospect is unquestion­ably bleak. 


John F. Sullivan '33 4 Elliot St. Holyoke, Mass. 

P. S. My two youngest sons will be applying for admission to college soon. Will someone please recom­mend a good school for their educa­tion—preferably one under Presby­terian, Methodist, Episcopalian or 
Hebraic auspices. 
DISTURBED AND SHOCKED 
The subject of Notre Dame's values was recently explored on the tele­vision program "First Tuesday" and, even more recently, by an article in Sports Illustrated. Quite frankly, I was very disturbed after viewing the former and downright shocked after reading the latter. The net effect of the two publications was to leave me with the impression that ND is rapid­ly losing all control over the lives of the students and, more importantly, that it has abdicated from the func-. tion of attempting to guide them, to teach them, to instill purposefiil values in them. Further, the afore­mentioned publications leave me with the conclusion that ND is doing same in a mad rush to "catch up" with cer­tain liberal institutions of higher 

learning located in the Eastern and Western parts of our country. 
If all of the foregoing conclusions are accurate then I feel certain that ND will live to regret its change and its reasons for same. I always felt that we had something special at 
Notre Dame; something that no other college in the country could hope to attain. I sincerely hope that time will prove my present thoughts to be com­pletely erroneous. 
Joseph S. Bekelja '59 8040 Rowland Ave. Philadelphia, Pa. 19136 
WEATHERING THE STORM 
War within our ranks we now have; may I add my oar? Recent television and magazine exposes have made me, and many others cringe rather badly, even though we've tried to maintain a stiff upper lip. From wild radicals, to pot smoking, to implied looseness in dormitories, to seeming overindul­gence of boyish wildness; it's hard to remain calm. 
After talking to students, professors, and alumni, for my own piece of mind, two conclusions come to mind. First, is that ND isn't a place, it is a way of life. Woe to those that will weaken her. A special place is re­served in hell for those swinging radi­cals with indulgent changes, or, on the other hand, those squares who resist change for the definite better; where both go too far and damage Our Lady's Haven. Secondly, I believe that over 75 per cent of the students, alumni, and decision makers at ND, are' the salt of the earth: whereby our institution will weather this storm, as she has others. 
My plea is to the 75 per cent of each group—our great silent majority —^to help guide, and throttle, the other 25 per cent. Now we must stand and be counted. Our reward will be that our son's sons will see a ND certainly different, but every bit as good as we knew. 
Roy Walter '52 1701 W. Spring St. Lima, Ohio 45805 

COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE 
The feast day we observe Dec. 8 is familiar to all of us. I for one have some difficulty grasping the subdeties of the concept of the Immaculate Conception, but I accept the essence and historical significance of it . . . I believe it 
I believe in other good things like our great university, ND, and its com­mitment to excellence. I believe, so strongly in ND's commitment to ex­cellence that I came off my seat in church last Sunday when I heard the name and reputation of ND leveled by my pastor, publicly, from the pulpit, for endorsing and promoting the availability of abortions in the 
Oct. 26 issue of The Observer. 
Like the concept of this feast day, 
I fail to grasp the subtleties of a 
rationale developed by an organiza­
tion which endorses a publication 
whose policies and practices generate 
revenues in exchange for advertising 
an idea that clearly frustrates the 
organization's primary objective . . . 
a commitment to excellence. Does 
propagandising anti-life have anything 
to do with ND's commitment to excel­
lence? 
Since I don't think it does, I don't 
plan to alter my beliefs. I'll still come 
off ray seat in defense of my belief in 
the University. I'll do whatever you 
want to help get this straightened out 
. . . until you tell me to sit down and 
keep quiet 
My contribution to the Foundation 
for this year is enclosed. I'll try to 
make it more next year. I only place 
one restriction on this contribution 
. . . don't buy anyone a subscription 
to The Observer. 
Charies W. Rath '58 5148-C Longbranch Columbus, Ohio 43213 
SHAKE DOWN THE DOME 
What in Heaven's name is happening to the university that bears the name of Our Lady! Her statue stands in glory atop a golden dome, while at a podium not far away a woman espouses immoral causes with obscene speech—and a campus newspaper runs an ad for an abortion agency. Shake down the thunder from the sky? No! Shake down that statue from its Dome! It has no relevance in this enlightened age of permissive­ness and of administrative laissez­faire. 
Richard K. Owens '42 923 N. Rural St Indianapolis, Ind. 46201 
PROUD OF NOTRE DAME 

Father Hesburgh's response to the editor of Our Sunday Visitor in the December ALUMNUS is classic. The University is treading a delicate line between imposed government (from "above") and student responsibility. I think ND is to be congratulated for accepting this challenge in a realistic way. The students are measuring up beautifully in response to the trust that has been given them. It is to the president's credit that he stands firmly behind the students (as is shown in his letter and, I am sure, in many 
other ways). 
Time is lacking to adequately spell 
out my admiration for the openness 
to change of my Alma Mater—as 
well as for the actual changes which 
are occurring. Let me just say I'm 
proud of Notre Dame! 
S. Jeanette Hanus, RSM '66 2425 Cherry St Toledo, Ohio 43608 
MAN-CENTERED RELIGION 
One of the most noticeable changes, from the point of view of an alumnus, is that there appears to be more than just an "opening up" on the campus. The old philosophy appears to have been abandoned for a totally new attitude, style and philosophy which seems to have more of a basis in existentialism and idealism than in traditional Christianity. One rarely hears a reaffirmation of traditional moral viewpoints or even an attempt to clarify traditional views in light of recent developments. One of the most impressive things that could emanate from the campus would be some type of reaffirmation in traditional theo­logical points that remain as valid today as they have in past centuries. If the predominant philosophy is a re­jection of Roman Catholicism, then the matter should be raised and posi­tions taken. 
Religion on the campus appears to be "man-centered." There is no longer a basic interest in God as a creator or in the nature of God. The attention is focused on what meaning God has for man? How does religion help man in his day-to-day existence? It is the influence of Sartre, Camus and Hei­degger, not Vatican II. 
This writer does not mean to imply that these philosophies should be stifled. The point is that they appear to predominate to the degree that they conflict with Vatican II and tradi­tional Catholic theology. 

In the book of Genesis, we are told of a serpent that was very "subtle." He encouraged Eve to start question­ing: "Why has God commanded you that you should not eat of every tree of paradise?" Adam and Eve had been ordered not to eat of the "tree of knowledge." The serpent said to Eve if she ate she would be as a God. The story seems to be based on symbolism and one wonders how much of this tendency which is re­flected in the book of Genesis and throughout the Old Testament is present in the current trend today, such as the radical changes and move­ments taking place on the campus. In other words, how much of this change is legitimate or of some value? 
Michael W. Herb '58 19730 —64th West, Suite 201 Lynnwood, Wash. 98036 
FOOD FOR THOUGHT 
We read your "Alumni Ask" column with more than a passing interest. Years pass quickly and parents want to guide their children to the best schools possible. Mr. Gerry Wilkes' comments in the September issue are indeed food for thought. Mr. Wilkes states that the "alumni who are dis­turbed about the course of the ad­ministration are the same people who bought the medieval package of right and wrong while they were in school, and then settled into suburbia, think­ing that their salvation had been assured by their visits to the Grotto." We are sincerely interested in learning just what part of that "medieval pack­age" is not being taught today and what has replaced the prayerful visits to the grotto. Be it right or wrong, a school is judged by its students. We have great respect for the ND of the past because of the many morally courageous and totally committed ND men we have known. Changes in the "course of the administration" can only, at the very least, raise some doubt as to what the future Notre Dame product will be. Mr. W. Michael Karnes states in the same issue that the "good old days are gone." He is right. A school cannot and should not remain the same. God himself has told us that we must either grow nearer to him or drift further away. The question remains: Are the "good old days" at ND being replaced by mentally, physically, 
spiritually and socially "good new days"? For precisely this reason we are keenly interested in the contribu­tions to the ALUMNUS magazine by students and recent graduates. 
We will continue to look to the ALUMNUS magazine and particular­ly to the "Alumni Ask" column to provide some of the information we seek. We hope that Mr. Wilkes or other students and recent graduates will explain the errors of the medieval package of right and wrong as well as present the moral program that has replaced it. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles F. Vandegrift '56 8612 Warmwell Drive San Diego, Calif. 92119 
BASIC PRODUCT 
My comments are caused by a letter 
from Don J. Schulthesis '50 printed in 
a recent issue. The basic question in 
the letter was whether or not he 
should send his sons to ND. I would 
quickly and simply answer yes. In 
addition, there was a question of 
devotion to Mary. Let me assure him 
that it is still there and in all honesty, 
I believe it is stronger than in our 
days in the 50's. Don commented, 
justifiably so, that ND men were 
proud of the hours spent at the 
Grotto. The only change today is that 
most ND students pray on the go; on 
the go to their daily commitment of 
working in the South Bend ghetto, 
with the mentally retarded, physically 
handicapped or teaching a CCD class. 
My family and I recently spent five 
days on the campus where we ob­
served the deep, dynamic dedication 
of today's Notre Dame man. During 
our visit my eight-year-old son was 
invited by and spent many hours with 
the students. He will tell you that 
some of the nicest people in the world 
are his friends at ND. Don should 
really not worry because the basic 
product is still there, it is just pack­
aged differently. 
William C. Kane '59 2075 Colvin Blvd. Tonowanda, N.Y. 14150 
ELECTED 

Hon. Gale William McGee, U.S. Senator from Wyoming, Democrat, was re-elected to the 92nd Congress. His biography. Congressional Direc­tory, 91st Congress, First session, March 1969, page 197, shows that he was a professor of American History and taught at the University of Notre Dame, 1944-45. 
Charles A. Conley '33 100 E. Turnbull Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 

BREACHING THE GAP 
Congratulations on the December, 1970 ALUMNUS. I think it's great. I hope all the alumni, especially those of comparatively ancient vintage, will read everything in it. This issue should do a great deal to breach the gap between us older ones and the young ones. 
Judge Roger J. Kiley '23L 219 S. Dearborn Chicago, III. 60604 
THE WEEK AFTER CHRISTMAS 
Twas the week after Christmas when all through the South Not a Longhorn was steering right after the rout. 
The oddsmakers were hung by their clients who'd dared Take the Longhorns as favorites by 7 points it was blarred. 
The Irish came rested all snug with no dread Of the Longhorns who'd come to lay the Irish down dead. 
With Ara in his armour and Darrell in his cap. They'd just settled their nerves for a long struggling flap. 
When out on the turf there arose such a clatter That Darrell was certain there was something the matter. 
Away to the score board Darrell glanced in a flash. Tore up his game plan and his teeth did gnash. 
For the score on the board read true as in blue That the Longhorns were down sligthly less than 7 to 2. 
When what to the Longhorns' wondering eyes should appear. But Joe Theismann again near their goalline so dear. 
He crossed it not once, being certainly quick. In a moment of weakness He'd doubled the trick. 
More rapid than eagles his coursers they came And he signaled and shouted and he called them by name. 
Now Gatewood! now, Parker! now Dampeer and Cieszkowski! On Ellis! on Kelly, on Kadish and Patulski! 
To the top of the ratings to the top of them all 
Now push 'em back, push 'em back 
we'll win over all. 
Phil Baldwin Jr. '65 
One E. Wacker Dr. 
Chicago, III. 

The Notre Dame Alumni Association in coopera­tion with Alumni Holidays, Inc. is sponsoring an eight-day "Paris Escapade," April 1-9. Members of the tour will enjoy round-trip passage on a TWA starstream jet chartered from Islew York to Paris. 
Those on the tour will spend seven nights in the famed Grand Hotel, in the heart of Paris on the Place de I'Opera, central to all of Paris. The Grand Hotel has recently un- <r^ , dergone a multi-million-dollar "^^=Hl modernization, which makes it one of Paris' finest hotels. You receive two meals at your hotel each day. 
A special half-day motorcoach tour of modern Paris will include such sites as the Ghamps-Elysees, a visit to Napoleon's Tomb, the Eiffel Tower, the Arc of Triumph, Notre Dame Cathedral, the Sorbonne and the Latin Quarter. 
Your hosts for the tour are Jim and Marion Armstrong. This is an all-inclusive package de­signed especially and only for Notre Dame alumni and their immediate families. Alumni who have taken "Escapades" to Rome and Madrid during the last year will verify the wonderful times they experienced. 
The price: $369 per person. For reservations or information, contact the ND Alumni Office. 


THE BIG COMEBACK! 
June 11, 12, 13 Classes: 50-Year Club, '21, '26, '31, '36, '41, '46, '51, '56, '61, '66 


