The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Volume 36 No. 1 February, 1958 

FEB 6 1^ 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '23 Edilnr 
nWMMMlTlCS 

65 'S 

New Directors Elected to Alumni Association Board 
Winter Meeting Held at University 
Four new members of the Alumni Association Hoard of Directoi's took of­fice at the annual Winter meeting held in Janiiaiy. Representing various sec­tions of the nation, all four have been active in local club affaii's as well as class programs. Those who wiii seive for three-year terms include: John C. O'Connor. '39, Indianapolis, Ind.: James H. .Shells. '35. New York City: Joseph R. .Stewart. '22. Kansas City. Mo.: and Charles E. Rolir, '.SO, Cleve­land, Ohio. 
John O'Connor was an outstanding vai'sity basketball player while at Notre Dame and now is a la\v partner in the firm of Craig. Riickel­shaiis, Reilly and O'Connor. H e was formerIy with the Federal Hiircaii of Inves­tigation and is a 
John O'Connor 
veteran of World War II, having served as a naval of­ficer in the Pacific campaign. John is married and the father of seven chil­dren. He is a past grand knight of the Indianapolis K. of C. and also a past president of the Notre Dame Club. l)ming his undergraduate days, John was president of the senior class and was in the combination law course, re­ceiving a B.S.C. in 1939 and an LL.B. in 1940. 
Foniierly Commissioner of the De­])artmenl of Investigation in New York City, Jim Shells is a general part­ner in the law f i r m of M c-Manns and Walker. He served in the 
L. S. .'Vrmy .-\ir Force during Jim Shells World War II. While at Notre Dame, he ])articipated in varsitv track and is a member of the Monogram Club. Jim received his law degree from Fordhain. following graduation at Notre Dame in 1935. He is a member ol the New York, .\merican and Mid­west Stock Exchanges. Cuncnilv on the Metropolitan Club of New York Board of Directoi-s, Jim Shells is a past president and recipient of the Man-of­the-^'ear award. He is a fonner law ])artner of Jim McGoldrick, national president of the .Mumni Association in 
1954. 
Joe Stewart has been prominent in the national Red Cross organization for many years. .-\n associate gen­eral counsel for the Kansas City Insurance Co. , he was National Chairman of the .\merican R e d Cross fund in 1955-56. Joe has been a member 
Joe Stewart of the national .XRC Board of Directoi's 
JOH.N" N. aVCKLEY, '37 Managing Editor JOHN F. L.\UGHLI.V, '48 Editorial A^si5taIIt 

since 1953. He is N.D. Foundation chainnan in Kansas City. Joe received a law degree from the University of Kansas City in 1925 after completing his undergraduate studies at Notre Dame. He was chairman of the Hun­garian Relief Committee in Kansas City. 
Following his graduation from Notre 

Dame in 1930, "Chuck" Rohr entered th e restaurant business, estab­lished by his father, and has been managing it since 1932. He is a past prcsi­dent of the Cleveland 
all .imni club and "Chuck' Kohr 

received the Man of the Year award. His son, Charles, Jr., is a senior at Notre Dame. In addition to Charles, Jr., Chuck Rohr has two other sons and two daughters. His wife, the foiTner Loretta Kramer, is a graduate of St. Mary's College. .Annually, Chuck is host to the Cleve­land Club's picnic for alumni and pres­ent students on his farm. 
Retiring board members include President J. Patrick Canny, '38, Cleve­land, Ohio, who becomes honorary president for the ensuing year: Patrick 
J. Fisher, '36, Indianapolis. Indiana, club vice-president of the .Association: John W'. Brcnnan, '27, Detroit, Mich., class vice-president: and Joseph E. Whalen, '29, Des Moines, Iowa, fund vice-president. 
Other membei:s of the board who will continue as directors include: Oscar John Dorwin, '17, New York City: Edmond R. Haggar, '38, Dallas, Texas: Eugene M. Kennedy, '22, Los -Angeles, Calif.: Francis L. Layden, '36, Evansville, Ind.; Leo J. Vogel, '17, Pittsburgh, Pa.: Raymond \V. Durst, '26, River Forest, 111.; Jules K. de la Vergne, '33, New Orleans, La.: and William E. Cotter, '41; Duluth, Minn.; and James E. .Annstrong, '25. 
Fatlier in my name he may give it you.'^ The recipient of the exalted honor anM 
Father Matt Walsh Jubilee dignity of the priestliood is thus 
 seeiS 

This is the truth which St. PaulJ echoed when he declared, "Neithere 


Hailed by Rev. John O'Brien 
doth any man take the honor to him-1 
to be of divine election. 
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, 
president of Notre Dame from 1922 
to 1928, obser\'ed the 50th an­
niversary' of his ordination to the 
priesthood with tlie celebration of 
a Solemn High Mass in Sacred Heart 
Church on the campus December 21st. 
Assisting at the altar on his golden 
jubilee were Rev. Eugene P. Burke, 
C.S.C, deacon, and Rev. Louis J. 
Thornton, C.S.C, sub-deacon. Rev. 
Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C, provincial 
of the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana 
province, and more tlian one hundred 
other priests attended the rites. Music 
for the jubilee Mass was provided by 
the Moreau Seminary Choir. Father 
AValsh was honored by hb fellow-
priests at a dinner in Corby Hall that 
evening. 
Rev. Jolm A. O'Brien, Ph.D., of Notre Dame, noted author and leader in the convert movement, paid tribute to Fadier Walsh when he delivered tlie sennon at tlie second jubilee Mass held in St. Thomas Aquinas Church, Chi­cago. Extracts from Father O'Brien's sermon are as follows: 
"Ever\-one who has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or motlier, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive a hundred­fold, and shall possess life everlasting." —Matthew 19:2 
These are the words which echoed in tlie ears of a fourteen-year-old boy sixty-one years ago. They spoke to him with a strange and persuasive elo­quence. The world too was beginning to beckon him with its dreams of ad­venture arid romance — dreams which it has kindled in the heart of youth since time began. But the music of the divine voice blurred the siren voices of the world, and the tall, slender youth responded to the invitation: to leave all that the world craves and find his all in the self-effacing ministry of the priesthood of Jesus Christ. 
Bidding "Good-bye" to his parents, his brothers and sisters, his schoolmates at St. Columkill — a parish which has given a multitude of its sons and daughters to the priesthood and sister­hood — Matthew Walsh set out for the campus of Notre Dame. There in the wilderness Father Sorin and a little band of Holy Cross missioners from France had planted the Cross of Chrbt and established a school which was then developing into one of the out­standing universities of the Midwest. 

Under the tutelage of holy and learned priests and self-effacing broth­ers, the youth advanced in age and grace and wisdom before God and rnen. Eleven years later — fifty years ago this December — the young man prostrated himself before the altar of the Lord and was ordained to the priesthood of Jesus Christ. All the rich talents of mind and heart and soul he cast upon the altar of the divine Master and swore to serve Him in poverty, chastity and obedience all the days of his life. 
On that memorable day, whose fif­tieth anniversar}' we commemorate to­day, Christ addressed to the young levite the words spoken in effect to all His priests: "Thou art a priest forever according to the order of Melchise­dcch." And again: "You have not chosen me, but I have chosen you; and have appointed you that you should go, and should bring forth fruit; and your fruit should remain: that whatsoever you shall ask of the 
Father Matthew J. Walsh, OS-C, (center) 50th jubilee Mass !n Sacred Heart church. (left), deacon, and Father Louis J. 
self, but he that is called by God, asj Aaron was." Through the impositionp of the bishop's hands and the gifts o S the Holy Ghost, a young man wasl made a co-sharer of the eternal priest-S hood of Jesus Christ. There are notg two priesthoods, as St. John Chr)'sostonil points out, but one priesthood, andH hence every priest is called to be anf alter Chrislus, another Christ. | 
Thus the priest of the new dispensa-1 tion is called by God not only into the ' line of Aaron, into ihe tribe of Levi, into the family of Samuel, into the priesthood of Melchisedcch but also ; into the eternal priestliood of Jesus \ Christ. He is made a member of that ' goodly company of disciples whose \ sound has gone forth unto the ends of the earth. Throughout nineteen hun­dred years they have borne the teach­ings of the divine Master to ever)' race -. and ever)' land from the frozen stretches of the Arctic to the burning sands of the Sahara. 
What a stirring of the emotions and | what an exultation of soul must the | priest experience as he reflects upon| the day of his ordination. Once again | 
(Continued on page 4) 

, former president of the University, says his Assisting arc Father Eugene P. Burke, C5.C. Thornton, C.S.C. (right), sub-deacon. 
WALTER TROHAN, '26 
Hotel Founder Pick Was Sorin Protege 
The late Albert Pick, father of the present president of Pick Hotels Cor­poration, founder of the huge Pick chain as it is known today and scion of America's oldest hotel family, spent three years as a Minim at Notre Dame. His stor)' is told in a recent centennial tribute to the company formally organ­ized by his uncle, also named Albert Pick, in 1857. Young Albert was two years old when the great Chicago fire of 
1871 leveled the Albert Pick & Co. building and destroyed all the family's possessions. A member of the Minim class of 1885, he was sent to the old Notre Dame Preparatory School when he was 12 but left three years later to work for his father, who had bought and tried to resurrect the hotel supply firm. He bought the company from his father in 1892 and developed it into the nation's largest hotel supply house be­fore founding, in 1926, the hotel chain which now operates in 27 U. S. cities. 
Furstoss Fund Flourishes 
The response to the Father Furstoss Fund for the new Moreau Seminary has been very encouraging. Appeals were mailed to alumni who had lived in Badin Hall when the late Rev. Bernard Furstoss, C.S.C., was rector. Approximately ^2,000 has been re­ceived which will be used for a special memorial in his honor. Donors have been sent acknowledg­ments of their gifts by the Univer­sity. Fiiends of Father Furstoss who may have overlooked sending in a contribution last year will still re­ceive credit in 1958 for this worthy cause. 



Prominent Writer Urges Support For K D. Library 
(ED. NOTE: \Valter Trohan, '26, head of the Chicago Tribune's \Vashington (D. C.) Bureau and one of the nation's outstanding news analysts, has written a letter to the University which we' think touches on a subject of general interest to all alumni. For that reason permission has been obtained to reprint Mr. Trohan's comments in this issue of the ALUMNUS. —^J-G.) 
The Alumni Association "2'­University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 
Gentlemen: 

My best friends are books. They have given me knowledge and instruc­tion when I hungered or thirsted for them; comfort and solace when I was troubled or afflicted; adventure and romance when I quested or yearned for zest ol life, and entertainment or diversion when I was bored or beset. All a man desires or hopes for are within his reach if only he gi-asps the right book. They are the legacies of human genius and the great gift of Divine inspiration. 
Since the most friendly social gesture we exercise is to introduce our friends to one another, it follows that the most friendly gesture we can perform in learning is to introduce our books to those we ^vish to help improve themselves. Abraham Lincoln once said, somewhat inelegantly, "my best friend is the one who'll give me a book I ain't read." 
For this reason I was most cheered by the recent article by Professor Rufus Ranch in the Notre Dame Magazine concerning the Zaian Dante Library, which I was privileged to view as a Freshman in 1922 and to use in taking a course on the Divina Commedia as a Junior under the late Professor Charles Philhps. The handling of some of these magnificent volumes was almost as much of an inspiration as the lectures of the gifted teacher who carried us through the horrors of hell, up the awesome slope of purgator)' to the glorious company of saints. 
More important than the visit to the past, the article gave me a glimpse into the future. I was delighted to know that plans for aiding the- library are in progress. These cannot be too extensive nor can they fail to enlist the enthusiastic support of ever)' Notre Dame man. 
Even in my day the librar)', while adequate, left much to be desired. I spent much time during my vacations in the great libraries of Chicago looking up writings I could not find at Notre Dame. No doubt conditions have improved in more than thirty years, but the flood of books has swelled tremendously so that the demand on funds must be enormous. 
It strikes me that Notre Dame, now widely recognized as a major university, needs an organization to support a library, which will store treasures of the past, keep pace with the-present and be prepared to absorb the wondrous promises of the future. While diere may be a certain amount of oversimplification in the statement of Thomas Carlyle that "The true univereity of these days is a collection of books," it holds much truth. 
No university can be truly great unless it meet the demands of its student body. All demands cannot be answered in the library, because other facilities, resources and materials are- equally necessary. Still the librar)' needs increased support along with the teaching staff and facilities in general. 
I should like to see the formation of some companionate of book lovers, a dedicated band who would work to minister to the mind through funds and books as the orders of hospitalers cared for the sick and needy. 
Sincerely, 
(s) Walter Trohan 
Father Walsh Jubilee 
(Continued from page 2) 
he finds himself asking with the Psalmist, "What shall I return to the Lord for all the things that he hath rendered to me?"' And with the Psalmist he replies, "I will take the chalice of salvation and I will call upon the name of the Lord." Hence it is that the jubilarian offers ii|) today as the supreme expression of his thanks the gift that is beyond all price: the eternal victim immolated in tiie im­bloody renewal of Calvaiy, the Holy Sacrifice of the Mass. 

The day of priestly jubilee must cen­ter its observance upon that which ele­vates the jubilarian above all his kith and kin — the holy priesthood. \Ve have glanced briefly at the sublime dignity of the priesthood which lifts frail flesh and blood into a ijaiticipa­tion of the eternal priesthood of the great High Priest, Jesus Christ. Let us now glance briefly at its powers. 
Fii^t is the power of teaching with the authority of Christ Himself. It was confcned by Oiu' Lord u])on His Apostles and through them upon all the priests of His Ciiurch. After His resurrection the divine Redeemer ap­peared to the Apostles and said: ".AH power in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go, therefore, and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you." 
The second great power of the priestly office is that of pardoning. ".•\s the Father hath sent me," said Jesus to His first jjriests, "I also send you." Then He breathed upon them to indicate the bestowal of a divine power upon them, and said: "Receive 
ALUMNUS Magazine Vol. 36, No. 1 
February, 1958 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
ye the Holy Ghost. ^Vhosc sins you shall forgive, they are foi-given them; and whose sins you shall retain, they arc retained." 
The third great power of the priestly office is the ape.x and the climax of all: tlie power of consecrating. At the Last Supper oiu- Divine Lord pronounced over the bread and wine the words of consecration: "This is my body, which is being given for you . . . This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which shall be shed for you." This same power Christ conferred upon the Apostles wlien He tirnied to them and said, "Do this in remembrance of me." 
For fifty yeai-s Father Walsh has ser\'ed God, souls, country and Notre Dame as a faithful and devoted priest. After receiving the doctorate at the Catholic University of America, he carried on post-doctoral studies at Co­lumbia and Johns Hopkins. He brought lustre and distinction to the chair of history- at Notre Dame, and brought the past to life by his vivid and dra­matic presentation of the movements, ciiaractei's and events of bygone days. 
He will rank with the greatest teach­ers of the University, and I know of none who stirred greater enthusiasm among his students: the unfailing mark of a great teacher who communicates not only knowledge but something of his own spirit and ideals as well. 
But first, last and always Father \Valsh has been a faithful, devoted and dedicated priest who has labored for the honor and glory of God, the salvation of souls, the extension of Christ's kingdom and the Christian education of youth. Whether ser\'ing as administrator, army officer or pro­fessor, he was pre-eminently the ambas­sador of God and the dispenser of His mysteries. Like the true priest that he is, his ceaseless concern has been to advance in virtue and holiness, and 
much of his life has been hidden in 
God. 
More eloquent, however, than any tribute my tongue could frame is that paid by the mighty concoiu'se of parishionei-s, former students of Notre Dame, prelates and priests who pack this spacious chinch to its very doors. Especially touching is that paid by His Excellency Archbishop Hoban, who comes from afar to grace the occasion with his distinguished presence and to manifest his wann esteem for his friend of sixty years. 
Father AValsh was named vice-presi­dent of the University in 1912, a po,st he was to hold for ten years except during \Vorld War L He was deco­rated for his combat duty as chaplain to the 30th Infantiy of the Third Divi­sion in France. 
Appointed president of Notre Dame en July 7,1922, Father Walsh laimched the Univereity's fii^st extensive building program since before the tiuTi of the centiuy. His administration was high­lighted by the constioiction of the Uni­vei:sity Dining Hall and Howard, Lyons and Morrissey residence halls. The Notre Dame student body and faculty doubled in size dining the same si.x-year period. 
In 1928, when Father Walsh com­]3leted his presidential temi, limited to sbc years by canon law, he resumed his career as one of Notre Dame's great teachers of histoiy. From 1929 to 19.1.1 ' he also seized as vice provincial of the Congregation of Holy Cross. He con­tinued as an active member of the ' faculty until 1947 and has been living in retirement since that time. 
His two brothers and two sistei's, d who live in Chicago, were present for the jubilee Mass at St. Thomas ] Aquinas Church. ^ 
Entered as Second Class matter October 1, 1939, at the Post Office, ­Notre Dame, Ind., under the act of August 24, 1912. 


ibrary 
llOtl Dane xjiQiana 

Return postage (/unmntced 



