The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
VOL 40 • 
YEAR END • 
DEDICATION OF THE NEW CARTIER FIELD 
(shown from the air with Klein Memorial Baseball Park and the probable site of a projected new athletic field house) was held on the morning of November 24. Officiating (facing camera, from left) were Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C, vice-president for business affairs; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C, executive vice-president and chairman of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics; and Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C, associate director of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
(See story, overleaf.) 




NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION On the cover: BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
A New Cartier Field 
Officers 
WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40. 
Honorary President 
WILLIAM P. MAHOJJEY, JR., '38 President 
MAURICE CARROLL, 'IS-Ctass Vice-President 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40 Clnb Vice-President HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 Fund Vice-President JAMES E . ARJISTRONC, '25 
Executive Secretary 

Directors to 1963 
MAURICE CARROLL, '19 5743 Delmar Blvd. St Louis 12, Missouri 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40* Huter-Quest Co. 833 W. Main St. 
Ixjuisville, Kentucky WILLIAM P. MAHONEY, JR., '38 
U.S. Ambassador Accra, Ghana HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 
3155 Aiden Road, N.W. Atlanta, Georgia 

Directors to 1964 
JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 Broad St, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania PATRICE A. DOUGHERTY, '50 P.O. Box 5672 Minneapolis 17, Minnesota WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 100 Pelham Road New Rochelle, New York 
OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F.B.I., P. O. Box 23 New Castle, Pennsylvania 

Directors to 1965 
ALBERT D . CASTELLINI, '24 506 First National Bank Bldg. Cincinnati, Ohio 
PHILIP J. FAGCENDA, '51 1510 Ogden LaGrange, Illinois 
PETER J. KERNAN, JR., '49 661 Washington Road Grosse Pointe, Michigan 
ADAH J. WALSH, '25 
P. O. Box 349 Portland, Maine 
* Appointed to fill tmexptred term of George Con­nor, '48, who resigned under pressure of business. 



Chaitmen of flie 1962 Committees 
WILLIAM MAHONEY.-Executive ROGER HUTER -Club Activities MAURICE CARKOLI ^Class Activities JOHN DEMPSEY_ 
-Alumni Fund, Foundation & Gifts 
PATRICK DOUGHERTY Student Affairs JOHN DEMPSEY Admissions 
PETER KzKHAH-Placement & Job Counseling ADAH WALSH Inter-Alumni Affairs OuvER HUNTER Public Relations ALBERT CASTELLiNLjJe/igion 6? Citizenship MAURICE CARROLL AND ROGER HUTER 
dominations PHILIP FACCENDJS Budget & Finance WILLIAM FALLON_ Athletics 
This magaune is published bi-monthiy by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Ikasie, Ind. Entered as second daist mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. luder the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
November 24, 1962, was a great day for the Irish. In the stadium the football team scored a fifth and final win for the season by trouncing Iowa 35-12. The N.D. Marching Band played a Latin-American medley as a musical salute to the University-spon­sored U.S. Peace Corps team in Chile, and Father Hesburgh (see page 
6) added his recorded congratulations, taped before he left for an inspection tour of scientific bases in the Antarctic for the National Science Foundation. 
Earlier that day, east of the stadium, a small group gathered for a short but significant ceremony. Priests, coaches, administrators and students joined sev­eral members of the family of the late Warren A. Cartier, '87, for the dedica­tion and blessing of a new site for the enclosed athletic field which has borne the family name for nearly 60 years. 
^Varren Cartier was a lumberman, banker and political leader who served for eleven years as mayor of Luding­ton, Michigan. A lay trustee of the University, he was once president and for many years treasurer of the Alumni Association. He had three alumni sons, Raymond, Morgan and Vincent Cartier, and before his death in November, 1934, Pope Pius X I con­ferred upon him the Knighthood of St. Gregory in recognition of his work for the Church. But his most enduring 
NEW POSTMASTER of Notre Dame, taking office Sept 3D after U.S. Senate approval of his appointment, is Brother Eli, CS.C, (center), being sworn in by Patrick F. Dowling, '21, postal inspector for South Bend. Brother Alarcelliniis, 
C.S.C. (left), the retiring postmaster, had held the job since 1945 and had been connected with the University's post office for more than forty years. 
fame was won by an offer, in 1899, to build a badly needed athletic field east of the old Brownson campus. Com­pleted in 1905, Cartier Field was the scene of 25 years of Irish football glory before the stadium was built in 1930, and it has continued to breed that glory as the Notre Dame practice^, field. * 

\Vith the breaking of ground for the Memorial Library and a new eastern quadrangle, the practice field was re­located east of the stadium and car­ried with it the Cartier name to per­petuate the University's gratitude for a great benefaction. 
The new Cartier Field has night illumination for its several practice gridirons and its track and field facili-CJ ties, among the finest in the world. The name Cartier is usually associated with diamonds, and the baseball diamond which the old field boasted has been moved northwest of the new field, much improved. Named for venerable Professor-Coach Clarence (Jake) Klein, it was dedicated and tested by Jake's team at the close of the last season. 
The stadium, practice and basebalL fields surround a large open area of ^ Juniper Road. Hopefully this \vill pro­vide room for a great new gymnasium and field house to complete a central­ized athletic plant. 

Content Highlighis: 
Cover, p. 2, A NEW CARTIER FIELD .. . p. 3, EDITORIAL: New Year'^ thoughts by James E. Armstrong, '25 . . . pp. 4-6, THE UNIVERSAL UNIVER­SITY, U.N.D. Night words: Detroit, Ed­ward L. Cushman; Chicago, award to Dr. John W. Taylor of WTTW-TV; Washing­ton, Senator Thomas J. Dodd; New York, Father Hesburgh, C.S.C. .. . p. 7, THE STUDENT SLANT: notes on student gov­ernment by Frank Dicello, '63 . . . p. 8, THE IRISH GO INTERNATIONAL, Florida Convention and Third European Tour .. . p. 9, MAN AND THE MO­MENT: more about the bells by Rev. Thomas J. O'DonneU, C5.C., '41 . . . pi ^ 10-12, ATHLETICS, football roundup an " basketball prospects .. . pp. 13-14, CLUB DIRECTORY .. . p. 15, THE ALUMNI SCENE, photos .. . pp. 16-23, CLUBS . . . pp. 24-51, CLASSES: statistics, spotlights, etc .. . p. 52, PRESIDENT'S LETTER, Ambassador William P. Mahoney . . . center, THE SUBLIME TRADITION: A Bade Home Library. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 

they are new feet, and there are more of them. But essentially they go from 
hall to class to dining hall to playing field to chapel, in the unending process 


Sditorial Comment 
of making good men from good boys, 
from your Alumni Secretary 

W
E ARE EMERGING from an inten­sive period of implementing our progress. As a result of your generous help success is in sight. So for this occasion, not in relaxation 
^ r in false security, but in the interest of breathing, in the interests of a joy­ous Christmas and a Happy New Year, let's think of the happy things. 
I flew in over the campus on a re­cent sunny day. The new Library looms as an impressive pillar of prog­ress. 
But the slender spire of Sacred Heart Church reminds us of our origin and our destiny, in God. 
Most of all, the bright golden Lady 
'9n the Dome has lost none of her luster. In the heart of an expanding campus she still stands as the patroness of Notre Dame and all its objectives 
— "Our Life, Our Sweetness, and Our Hope." 
The Grotto still offers the alternative of lighting a candle, and you never pass it without seeing some suppli­
ant s asking grace. ' The lakes are landscaped, and the new religious buildings have given them a Riviera color, but the paths around them are still the area of con­templation, of introspection, of an in­dividual peace, for student, faculty member, and religious. 
The East campus springs into view like an academic Disneyland. But when you consider the implications of the Atomic Energy Center, the Com­puter Center, the Library, the Stepan Center for student convocations and recreation, the well-laid-out and light­ed athletic fields, you realize that future generations of Notre Dame men, in all walks of the Universit}''s life, will call us blessed. 
The old heartland of the campus. Main Building, Church, Washington Hall, LaFortune Student Center (e.x-Science), St. Edward's and Sorin, stand like reconstructed Williamsburg, as an active life-filled tribute to the Univer­sity administrations and programs of another century. 
And Notre Dame Avenue stretches from the expanding campus into the civic environs of neighboring South Bend as a long and lovely channel linking the city and the campus like the neck of an hourglass, through which campus and civic life moves back and forth wth the incredible turnover of countless calendars. 
The gold of a lovely autumn, as though the Dome sheds its color to the surrounding trees, will soon give \vay to the mantle of white that moved Father Sorin to dedicate this pure wilderness to Our Lady. 
Through this familiar and unfa­miliar maze of walks and buildings the persisting sound is of moving feet — 
of molding the leadership of maturity 
from the clay of youth, of depositing 
the best of the past and present in the 
minds and hearts of the hope of the 
future. 
And in the atmosphere there are the 
old conflicts — impatience with time 
vs. the peace of environment, criticism 
of age and experience vs. the trust of 
the young, the profound and irrevoca­
ble pronouncements of youth as it 
makes news of history and inaccuracies 
of truth. 
In fact, because of the tremendous drive for the future that has been in the Notre Dame spotlight, and because of the pressures of the present, many of us who live here in the center of these urgencies occasionaUy forget that student history is never more than four years old. We begin to worry about, the student voices as though they were saying new and startling things. And. sometimes, in our preoccupation with the magnificent future that Notre-Dame faces, we wonder a little about the merits of its past 
It is when these things catch up to-you, and you sit back and breathe » little, that these years slip into proper perspective. Great years, yes. Stimu­lating years, yes. Years that will in­fluence Notre Dame in the future, cer­tainly. Progress, definitely. 
But not really a departure fiom those principles that guided Notre Dame in 1842, not really vision or in­spiration different from those which created Notre Dame. Rather, in per­spective— and accelerated by exper­ience— the principles, the vision, the inspiration, the intellectual ferment, the adaptations to change, the con­tinuing deep-seated combination of love of learning.and love of country that have al\vays kept Notre Dame great and growing. 


, On With the New awA the Old: Progress but Not a Departure 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 

The Unioersal Unmrsityr 
Excerpts from speeches and statements of significance to all Notre Dame men, made at various local observances on the occasion of the 1962 Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Detroit: 


Moral Man in the Modern World (concluded) 
By Edward L. Cushman, Vice-President, American Motors 
O
NE OF THE great hopes that many of us have is that state gov­ernments will re-examine their role and accept the kinds of responsibilities that that role provides. We have much too much of a tendency to look to Washington for answers. We've lost im­portantly our skepticism about Big Government. We must regain that kind of skepticism about government at every level and we must look to other answers than the answer of saying, "let's leave a vacuum which Washington will fill." 
We have great problems in metropolitan areas, with the urbanization of our society, that should be dealt with importantly by the metropolitan areas themselves. State governments, and in some cases, the Federal Government should be involved only through the kind of intergovernmental relations that maintain the basic responsibility as a local responsibility. 
Many people say the recent growth of church attendance is not an example of any increasing concern about the fundamental values of life, or of a searching for the answer to the question of life's purpose. This is an easy thing to dismiss glibly, by saying that this is merely part of a pattern of conforming, and that it has become more socially acceptable to be seen in church on Sunday or to be associated with some church endeavor. I think to some extent this is true. But to dismiss this as being only an example of conformity fails verj- decidedly to recognize the yearn­ing I believe exists increasingly in the minds of people for moral direction. 
Fundamental to the conviction of any Christian is the belief that each of us is a child of God, that each of us has a right to freedom, which is only limited by our not having the right to impose our use of freedom on others, and that we have the obliga­tion of free choice in trying to advance God's Kingdom, in the decisions that we each make daily. 
This fundamental concept means that we must be believers in change. We must be advocates of mo\-ing the kind of society that we find on earth more nearly to that of God. This means that the fundamental convictions we have about freedom should mean so much to us that we are willing to work for them. And yet it can be said, as has been said by many, that these convictions are taken for granted. We take for granted that they are accepted or re­garded with en\-y or desire by peoples everywhere, and that some­how or other the concepts that we consider to be sound are going to win out, because in the long run it is ine\'itable that good will triumph over evil. Most of us therefore, spend very little time indeed with activities other than the necessities of work and family life. 
We've had in our history several periods of tremendous growth toward the accomplishment of our convictions. The most important single one was the period of the founding of our republic, when I personally believe wc were divinely inspired as a people in the clear expression of \'iews found in the Declaration of Independence, and in the Constitution. But this was a relatively simple society. It was one where individuals who took actions as committed 
«) 

Christians could have some impact, could sec some results from the work that was done in the smaller rural communities, with the kind of "economic and social and political life that existed at that time. 
D
URING THE past Century we've had a tremendous growth of gigantic institutions. Perhaps the most significant single insti­tution was the corporation. Through the creation of a legal entity with continuity, the corporation has made possible the use of the most advanced technology* for the production and distribution of goods. As a result, .Americans have experienced the highest standard of living of any nation in histor>\ 
Some of those who opposed the creation of corporations as such argued that they would become even more powerful th. ^ the states themselves, which chartered such institutions. .\nd i P some instances this has since come true. 
As is not surprising, as power grew and became increasingly concentrated, it was abused as well as used. The abuse of power called forth another wave of change of our institutions — the cre­ation of what has been called "counterv'ailing power" — or new power centers to oflfset the old. 
The great protagonist of this wave of change, of course, was Franklin D. Roosevelt. Under his administration we saw govern­ment enlarge its own powers, and create new institutions to limit the freedom of corporations. .Among the new institutions fostered by government were labor unions, and the collective bargainiiA process. Over-all, this effort and these institutions made a useful and important contribution to the furtherance of social and eco­nomic objectives that I believe .Americans generally hold to be important and basic. 
But this wave of change — precisely because it took the ap­proach of opposing power with power, rather than dividing ex­cessive power — has been allowed to go too far. It has produced its own "countervailing" excesses. 
In important cases, we not only have excessive power concen­trations in both unions and in corporations, but we see increasing trends toward excessive concentration of government power . . . in the name of protecting the public interest against Big Industr>-­Big Labor deadlocks. 
.Americans have made great progress toward the achievement of political, economic and social freedom. That progress has creatad in our people a complacency about our national well-being, undW concern about worldly goods and a preoccupation with day-to-day living. 
Furthermore, in a highly industrialized and increasingly auto­mated and urban society, the growth of great institutions has given the individual a sense of frustration about his ability to have a significant Impact on these institutions and on society in general. Individuals have tjnjustifiably excused inactivity and avoided in­dividual responsibility on the grounds of this assumed incapacity, or on the basis of loyalties to the limited objectives and disciplined' 
4 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
economic, political or social organizations to which they belong. ^ The growth of massive institutions — the abuse of excessive power — the sense of frustration of individuals — all these tend to diminish respect for individual freedom, and even for freedom it­self. As such these problems should be of particular concern to religious men — to Christians of all faiths. 
We who preach individual freedom should be the first to make sure we practice it — politically, socially, economically. 
.\ close and good friend of mine was the late Sumner Slichter, the Han-ard economist. One of the last things I received from him before his death was a comment on our gigantic institutions, and who would do the reforming of them in the 20th Centur>'. Dr. Slichter had this to say: 
. . . The institutions sponsored by the liberals of the first half 
f the Twentieth Century, have had time to grow old, to become out-of-date in many respects, and some of them have failed to adapt their policies and methods to the conditions of the times. The policies and institutions originally created to reform free private enterprise are in many cases themselves in need of reform . . . Who will undertake the task of reforming, not free pri\-ate enter­prise, but the institutions established to reform free pri\-ate enter­prise? Will the liberals be able to reform their own institutions? Or, shall we need a reform movement with a different sponsorship 
*>i 
— sponsored perhaps by the conser\-atives? Certainly each year the liberals have more to defend — more defects in the institutions sponsored by them show up. Where a generation ago the liberals jvere on the offensive, today they are on the defensive .. . It is 
important that reforms be carried out with a sense of social re­sponsibility. The purposes of the policies of the liberals were good, and the public will not tolerate destruction or repeal of liberal policies without attempts to deal with the problems that produced these policies." 
The terms "liberal" and "conser\'ative" have lost their mean­ing. What we do need is what I like to call a "coalition of the concerned" . . . whether they call themselves liberals or conser­\'atives. 
If we are concerned . . . and certainly Christians should be . . . then it is imperative that we re-examine our national life in the light of the environment in which we now find ourselves. 
yA s IS TRUE with so much of life, what is needed is the kind of *»balanced viewpoint that conser\'es what is worth conserving . . . and seeks innovation where the new thing is genuinely better than the old. We face the gravest of threats from outside . . . and within our national borders we face the obvious need to find better answers to our problems — political, social, and economic. 
We have a solid foundation on which to build — a foundation of basic principles that are immutable — and proven policies and institutions worth fighting for to preser%-e. Yet we require the breadth of viewpoint and open-mindedness to respond to the chal­lenge of changing circumstances with creativity — to find new 
j-esources on which to capitalize, and new opportunities to move 
JRhead. Certainly the greatest nonconformist in historj- was Jesus Christ. .4nd certainly the institution that should be the principal moti\-ator for change in the society in which we live is His Church. 
What we ought to be in every one of the branches of Christen­dom, is uncomfortable and unhappy men and women. It is our responsibility, it seems to me, if we are indeed Christians, to be dissatisfied with the life that we lead today, to do what we can to move the institutions and the attitudes of people more nearly toward God's Kingdom and its accomplishment, and to give a higher degree of priority to acting about things that we believe in. 
.\s members of a total society we should all be striving for the 
same kind of progress toward excellence, that you are seeking to 
achieve in the building of a new Notre Dame. 
We have an outstanding national example here in Michigan, 
of how effective the concern of a relatively small nimiber of in­
dividuals can be. 

Our first state constitutional convention in more than 50 years 
is nearing its end after seven months of labor. Whatever partisan 
controversialists may hold, I'm sure that those of you who have 
followed the work of the delegates are aware of the major im­
provements that have been made in the fundamental law of our 
state. Whether the result measures up to what you hoped it would 
be by a full 100 per cent — or 80 per cent — or even 50 per 
cent — it is a significant advance over the existing document It 
puts Michigan in the position of being an example to the rest of 
the states. .At least two-thirds of them have constitutions more out 
of date than ours, and problems as acute or even more acute than 
ours. 

But this state faced a challenge in 1959. We were branded 
across the nation as politically and financially bankrupt. Political 
party deadlock had us stymied . . . until an organization called 
Citizens For Michigan swelled up from the grass roots, and a 
remarkable man named George Romney began rousing the public 
conscience and routing the sleeping dinosaur of public apathy. 
This organization is an attempt to get people as citizens to work together voluntarily — as individuals — to develop a mech­anism for learning the facts about state problems, arriving at solutions on which all could agree, and translating these solutions into effective political action. This organization has never numbered more than 5,000 paying members . . . Yet it helped crystallize public opinion: joined with the League of Women Voters and other concerned groups; and provided the leadership that has given us the constitutional convention we have today. 
.Another economist friend of mine is author and lecturer Peter Drucker. Let me read you what he has written about the oppor­tunity for the individual: 
".. . ours is .. . a time of new vision and greatness, of op­portunity and challenge, to everyone in his daily life, as a person and as a citizen. It is a time in which everyone is an understudy to the leading role in the drama of human destiny. Everyone must be ready to take over alone and without notice, and show him­self saint or hero, villain or coward. On this stage the great roles are not xvritten in the iambic pentameter or the -Alexandrine of the heroic theater. They are prosaic — played out in one's daily life, in one's work, in one's citizenship, in one's compassion or lack of it, in one's courage to stick to an unpopular principle, and in one's refusal to sanction man's inhumanity to man in an age of cruelty and moral numbness. 
"In a time of change and challenge, new vision and new danger, new frontiers and permanent crisis, suffering and achieve­ment, in a time of overlap such as ours, the individual is both all-powerless and all-powerful. He is powerless, however exalted his station, if he believes that he can impose his will, that he can command the tides of history. He is all-powerful, no matter how lowly, if he knows himself to be responsible." 
.And I would add to that, "if he acts responsibly." 
Each and every one of us can have significant impact if we will only act, and act courageously, and as knowledgeably and wisely as we know how . . . and if we will join with others with whom we agree on the fundamental things — as a coalition of the genuinely concerned, to make our state, our nation and this world better together. 
.As the fathers of the early Christian church have written — "In necessariis, unitas; in dubiis, libertas; in omnibus, caritas." In fundamental things, let there be unity; in debatable things, liberty; but in all things, charity. 


CAfcago: "Decency in Entertainment" Award to Educational Station WTTW-TV 
" Channel 11 has delivered the. best in the world of the ideas, the best in music, the best in dance, the best in literature . . . attention to all faiths, through its Time for Religion presentations . . . good drama, folk music, the arts of painting and sculpture and serious music on the series Festival — and not once have the station leaders sacrificed good taste to appeal to sensation. 
This is a broadcast organization that pays close attention in its discussions as well, to morality and to high standards but does jiot shy away from controversy. The program Meeting of Minds '9ias dealt with even the most controversial moral issues fairly and 
squarely with equal representation on both sides of each question 
This station has been responsible for making educational op­portunities available to more than 90,000 Chicagoans who here­tofore were unable to attend college — 346 of these have received all, or a majority of credits for a degree — on television! That 
may not seem entertaining to you, but to those who better themselves — it ii entertaining. Many retired shut-ins find the station's programs of music, like Symphony and the Fine .Arts Quartet of Chicago, island in a desert of violence. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 
 are trying to  persons and  the Boston a refreshing 
1962 5 


The Universal University 
Washington, O.C.: From 


Remarks of Senator Thomas J. Dodd ID., Conn.} 

W
E SEE growing up all around us groups who fear "the bomb" more than the loss of Western values, and who march under the miserable slogan, "Better Red than Dead." 
If wc tr)- to combat the Soviets on the ground that they offer the world a brutal and tyrannical form of materialism, whereas we offer mankind a humane materialism softened by democracy, then our stand is fuule and ultimately self-defeating. 
It is only when AVestem man realizes that he must struggle, not for the material fruits or the scientific achievements or the political refinements of Western socict)-, but for its spiritual origins, its eternal truths, that he will be prepared to make the heroic, sustained endeavor that must be made. 
If he believes in a Supreme Being, whose will he ser\-es, then he is clothed in a certain armor of courage and confidence which 
is essential to victory. M 
If he believes in the immortality of his soul, then he is no fear­
ful weakling whose goal is mere surviv-al under any circumstances; 
he is a man who will lay down his life for those values which we 
are trying to preserx-e. 

If he believes that there is such a thing as objective truth and 
that he is endowed with the capacit)- to know it and the duty to 
seek it, then he will be a purposeful citizen and a resolute defender, 
for he has the strength that goes with knowing his side is the 
right side. 

If he believes in the dignity of man, properly conceived, then 
the thought of one billion slaves behind the Iron Curtain, depriveti 
of their basic human rights, will be a constant thorn in his side 
and a spur to action. ^ 
So long as he grieves over their enslavement, he wU never bi 
fooled about the nature of communism, he will never acquiesce in 
any agreement which consigns others to perpetual slaverj-, he will 
never invite the enslavers to his shores to be received as honored 
guests, he will never join in the diplomatic recognition of gangster 
regimes as legitimate governments. .And for the same reason, he 
will strive constantly toward the elimination of those forms of dis­
crimination and injustice and degradation here at home which 
deny men the rights and opportunities and patterns of growth 
which are their just inheritance. 
If Western man believes in inalienable rights and in the in­alienable responsibilities that go hand in hand with those rights, then he will be a bulwark of our system of free government an ^ he will accept the painful obligations which must be accepted if any free society is to sur\-ivc, the duty to sacrifice, to take risks, to bear arms, to pay taxes, to forego individual interest in behalf of the common good. 
The question before us then is, can we develop even a signif­icant minority of men and women who ore mentally and morally equipped to do battle with both the frontal attack of Communist barbarism and the internal corruptions of Western materialism, atheism and agnosticism. (continued at top of next page) 

NEW YORK: FATHER HESBURGH ON NOTRE DAMPS CHILEAN PEACE CORPS 
A
BOUT A ^•EAR ago — not much more than that — it was an­
" nounced that we were going to have a Peace Corps. Many 
people wagged their wise heads and said, "This is the latest bit of 
ridiculous nonsense that has been thought up by some woolhead in 
Washington, because the last thing in the world we should do is 
send a lot of inexperienced youngsters overseas. If we have had 
trouble overseas before, we will have compounded trouble once 
these youngsters get there." 
I didn't happen to agree with this judgment at the time, because if there is one thing I think 1 know about youngsters it is that they are, first of all, capable of great idealism and a great sense of dedication and sacrifice. Certainly World War II should have taught to us at least that about our youngsters. 
I think also that they have an adaptability, a flexibility and a kind of energetic talent that can project .•America to the world in a way that those of us who arc getting older cannot. .-Vnd so I thought that if there were going to be a Peace Corps and it were going to be an exciting new reality for America, I would like to "hope that Notre Dame would be a part of it. The verj- night that the Peace Corps was announced in Washington, I had a call from Sargeant Shriver and my former legal assistant on the Civil Rights 
Commission who was the White House representative for the Peace Corps, Harris Wofford, asking me if Notre Dame would be in­terested in getting together a project in conjunction with the other schools in Indiana. I told them wc would be delighted to get together such a project—and we did. 
We first went to Chile and asked the Chileans what was the worst and most neglected part of their country and they said the campo—the rural area—because in the last election the rural area went 100 percent Communist and these are the most hopeless, neglected people in all of Chile. I a^ked if there were anyone—any Chilean organization—^working in the rural area because I don't believe that .Americans should go abroad and tell other people how to run their own business; we might go abroad and help them run their own business, that's a different thing. They said, "Yes, there are two organizations working very hard in the rural area. One is the Communist Party and the other is a Chilean organization called the Institute of Rural Education." 
Wc got into a truck and we went out into the rural area—son^ few hundreds of miles south of Santiago, as a matter of fact all the way to Valdidia. This was right after the earthquake had taken place and we got a rather stark picture of life in this rural area of Chile. It's a beautiful country of snow-capped mountains with the Pacific Ocean on the other side, gorgeous valleys with lateral mountains running through them. The people, who were at a very low stage of social and economic development, were a little better off than the fiefs in the Middle .Ages or the peons of ages past. 
We looked at the work of this institute. We found out that they had 12 schools to train peasant boys and girls in such things as health, child care, community development, nutrition, food prepara­tion, small gardening, raising of small animals, better crops an V all the kind of things that might bring hope to a people who are living in a very depressed condition. 
But they greatly needed the kind of talents that weren't readily a\-ailablc there. We went to the universities and asked if the Chilean university students would want to go out and try to do this job and they said, **No, when wc finish the university we would like to get married and get a job." And I said, "That is just about what our university students like to do when they finish the uni­versity. But I think that if we put this challenge to them they wil! be down here working in your country." They said, "If you can make this happen, we promise you we will be working alongside of them, althoug'n we have never done it before. We don't have time to work in the rural areas, but if they come down and do this from so far away in our country, wc will be forced to stand along­side of them and work with them even if only out of shame." A 
We came back home and we put out a hurry call for volunteer from all the schools in Indiana and the schools at large in the nation. This was announced on the day of our graduation last year and I am happy to say that the largest contingent came from the Universit>- of Notre Dame and there are even three girls from St. Mary's. We brought the group together at Notre Dame on the 23rd of July. Half of them didn't know a word of Spanish, .but in eight weeks we taught them, first of all, what Spanish was all about and secondly what Chile was all about, and then becau|| 
u^ (continued on page 12) 
6 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
The leaders in this effort must be men like yourselves, products 
0o f our finest traditions. But if these traditions are to be presen-ed only as academic curiosities in ivory towers and cloistered halls, we are done for, we have already lost. 
The task of our time is to restate these truths, to apply them to current events, to imbue a large part of our intellectual com­munity with them and make them intelligible and acceptable to the people. 
The role of an institution like Notre Dame in a task of this kind is central. 
If each day, its faculty and graduates can make a contribution to the mainstream of -American thought; if each year we can send out into the world from Notre Dame and those many other institu­tions dedicated to our common ideals, new legions of young people 
' 9 grounded in religious beliefs, equipped with the tools of logic, and infected with a zeal for persuasion, then there is a chance that Christian philosophy may be for our age what it has been in the past: a leaven spreading its elevating influence throughout the social structure and cleansing society of internal weaknesses. This is a goal grand enough to fire the imagination and enlist the efforts of each of us. 
If the fate of the West hung upon what men alone will do, then the outlook would indeed be dismal. Left entirely to our own resources, we should surely fail. But we are sustained by the faith that God still rules the world. 
AVe stand in much the same position as did Charles Martel 
R
ESOLVED: The Student Senate of the University of Notre Dame recommends that cheerleaders for all functions be male students of this University. On October 1, less than a week before the opening home game against Purdue, this resolution passed by a significant majority. The ne.\t day Univer­sity officials announced that proposed plans to have our regular cheerleaders augmented by four girls from Saint Mar>-'s were aban­doned. This question of female cheerleaders, relatively unimportant in comparison with other issues before the Senate, generated 
JJquite a bit of interest on campus. The de­cision of the administration was another recognition of student government as the voice of the student body. 
In the past decade student government at Notre Dame has grown in both responsibil­it>' and power. This year it will operate on a record budget of $26,000. The amount of this allocation and the broad scope of activ­ities in which it is involved establish stu­dent government not only as a representative of student opinion, but as a big business. 
jLe t us, then, review its ever-growing role and some of the activities which it has spon­sored this year. .-\ long-standing complaint of many stu­dents has been that there is little opportunity for informal association with their profes­sors. In an effort to eliminate this problem, the .-Vcademic Commission is sponsoring a series of student-faculty coffee hours. The aim of these coffee hours is to give both stu­dents and faculty an opportunity to meet in a relaxed atmosphere. .-Mso in the academic realm, over $2500 has been allocated for a Distinguished Lecture series which will bring several outstanding scholars to our campus. 
_Last month this commission arranged for the 
^performance of Dylan Thomas* last play. Under Milkwood, before a full house in Washington Hall. The fall social season began with an open house sponsored by the Social Commission. Girls from SMC and several neighboring colleges were in attendance. The highlight of the week end was a touch-football game between the Barat Bombers and the Saint 
yMary Maulers. Despite many intricate plays 



tiic Studcfii 

By Frank Dicello, Secretary, Notre Dame Class of 1963 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS BIG BUSINESS 
before the battle of Tours, or Don Juan of Austria on the eve of 
Lepanto, or Jan Sobieski before the gates of Vienna, or indeed 
Winston Churchill in the sutnmer of 1940. 
At these climactic periods of history when the West seemed 
destined to be engulfed by barbarism, pitifully inadequate forces 
led by resolute men with spiritual faith and moral courage turned 
the tide and saved civilization. We cannot therefore know the 
mighty result that can come from the dedicated efforts of a few 
men acting in harmony with the laws of God. 
If we of the West can stand up to the Communists now, if we can hold the line in Berlin, in Vietnam, in Quemoy, and all around the perimeter of freedom, if we can gain the time for that intel­lectual and moral resurgence in the West of which we now see many signs, then we will win the struggle. 
We will win because man's higher needs are the very things that Western ci\'ilization answers and which the cold dogma of Communism cannot supply. Man has needs and appetites that no material order or philosophy can satisfy. Whatever may be our weaknesses, we have one great strength. Our universities are free, and our churches are free. The people of the West remain free to seek the truth. I believe that in the end the church and the uni­versity will save us. 
Notre Dame, representing as it does the union of University and Church, must and will be a leader in the struggle to preserve the central values of Western civilization by making them a moving force in the life of the twentieth century. 

S10^ 
on both sides, when the final gun sounded it was a scoreless tie. This was soon followed by the appearance of Ray Charles before a capacity audience in the new Stepan Cen­ter. More big-name entertainments were scheduled for the months ahead, the next attraction being Julie London on Novem­ber 30. 
November 10 was "Homecoming," and in anticipation of our 43-22 victory over Pitts­burgh members of the various halls spent long hours with hammer and nails, paper and paint, in an effort to outdo rival halls in the decorations contest. 
Notre Dame is fortunate to have many foreign students. $1,000 will be spent this year on parties, lectures, and other events in order to insure a greater opportunity for cultural exchange with this group. 
A new commission was established this year to stimulate interest in political issues. This commission was instrumental in origi­nating a resolution passed by the Senate praising President Kennedy for his firm stand in the Cuban crisis. In the future this commission will sponsor s>'mposiums on cur­rent issues and bring speakers of political note to the campus. 
.•\ large portion of the budget this year was allocated to provide several student ser\-ices. .-^mong these were the publication of a weekly calendar of events distributed to each student, the publication of a handbook of useful information, and the institution of a travel committee. In this same vein, the student government now owns and operates the campus press and controls the La For­tune Student Center. The remainder of the budget was set aside for administrative ex­penses or distributed to the various college councils, minor sports, and student service organizations. 
This, then, is one view of student govern­ment, that it is primarily a great student-welfare organization. What success it enjoys, however, is not due solely to a small group of elected students, but rather to a large number who voluntarily give up their time and energy, with little prospect of recogni­tion, to create a better community for their classmates. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 


htemat'maL 
Notre Dame Convention Moves Over to Grand BaAomo Island From Florida April 26-27-28 
You CAN HELP make the Notre Dame Convention his-tor)' this year . . . our meeting on foreign shores . . . yet so close to home! This is the unique attraction of the luxurious JACK TAR GRAND BAHAMA CLUB. In this incomparable tropic island setting, a scant 55 miles from Palm Beach, Florida, you as delegates, will find the most modem facili­ties and ser\'ices to make your attendance an outstanding Notre Dame achievement and provide each and every one with a lasting impression of prideful satisfaction of a job well done. 
You will discover the graciously informal atmosphere of Bahamian hospitalit)' .. . an island retreat of tropical isolation. The sea surrounds you and you'll meet the beauty of it face to face! Breath-taking Ndstas of the vast Atlantic at your doorstep varj' in hue from hour to hour. 
Under blue skies and fleecy clouds, your pleasures .. . be they swimming, golf, or fishing which is famous throughout the world — tuna — wahoo — dolphin — marlin or the elu­sive bonefish, await your line. Witches Light Bar invites you to abandon care and tensions . . . the worries of the world seem millions of light-years away! 
The price of these three days of gracious living per couple, including air transportation from Palm Beach — $100.00, Fort Lauderdale $106.00, Miami $110.00 and Tampa $130.50. Make your reser\'ations now to NOTRE DAME CONVENTION HEADQUARTERS, 100 East Las Olas Boulevard, Fort Lauderdale, Florida with your check in full, or deposit of $25.00. 
N. D. European Pilgrimage —'63^ April 19 - May 12 
THE THIRD ANNUAL European Pilgrimage has been 
arranged for Notre Dame men and their families. As in 
past years, tlie Pilgrimage will be accompanied by a Notre 
Dame chaplain. 

The tour will visit some of the most beloved shrines of 
Europe. A well-planned program of sightseeing in Italy, 
France, Switzerland, England and Ireland still leaves most 
afternoons and evenings free. ^ 
All arrangements in Europe are first class: all hotel 
rooms with private baths; sightseeing by private de luxe 
motor coaches. Most meals and all transfers between air­
ports, stations, and hotels are included, as well as baggage 
handling and porters' tips. Travel is free from worry about 
reseri'ations or making connections, and there will always 
be tour escorts on hand to answer questions. 
Transatlantic flights will be in long-range jets of Irish 
International Airlines, crossing the ocean in less than sL\ 
hours. 

Pilgrimage high lights include: ^ 
LouRDEs: The greater part of the time is left free for 
private devotions; the hotel is in view of the Grotto and 
Basilica. 

ROME: The Pigrimage has been assured of being granted an audience with the Holy Father. Assist: The city of St. Francis, where pilgrims may kneel at his tomb and visit the Portiuncula. 
VENICE: The Cathedral of St. Mark, built eleven cen­
turies ago to house the relics of the saint. The mosaics are 
among the most magnificent in the world. 
MILAN: Leonardo da Vinci's "The Last Supper," andQ the great Cathedral surmounted by a gilded statue of Our Lady. 
PARIS: Mass in the Cathedral of Notre Dame, visits to 
the Shrine of the Miraculous Medal and Sacre Coeur 
Basilica. 

DUBLIN: NO shrine is humbler than the little sidewalk 
altar — marking the spot where Matt Talbot died. 
Tour "A," the complete 25-day tour includes all air transportation from New York and to New York for $940.00^ Tour "B," transatlantic round-trip flights, and EuropeaiP arrangements at Lourdes, Rome, Paris, London, Dublin and Shannon only (transportation between Rome and Paris is not included), $730.00; Tour "C," transatlantic round-trip flights, and European arrangements from arrival Lourdes until departure from Zurich (transportation Zurich to Shan­non is not included), $700.00; Tour "D," transatlantic round-trip flights and European arrangements in Lourdes and Rome only (transportation Rome to Shannon is not included), $515.00. An extension to Naples, Capri, etc., is available for an additional $40.00. 
Applications may be made by writing the Alumni Office. Deposit checks for $100.00 should be made payable to NOTR ^ DAME ALUMNI ASSOCI.\TION. The deposit is refundable in full if membership is cancelled at least sLx weeks prior to the scheduled departure. 
Pilgrims will need only two official documents before departure: (1) a valid passport; (2) a certificate showing that they have been inoculated against smallpox subsequent to May 12, 1960. As U.S. citizens they \vill not require any visas to enter the countries visited. 
8 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 


MAN and the MOMENT 
Part two of a 

meditation in tiiree parts) 

O
F ALL THE music-making devices designed by man, none has such a widespread and intimate appeal as the bell. (And the word "appeal" is not meant to be a pun.) From time immemorial bells have been the voice of a nation and all nations the world over. A bell speaks the language of all peoples. A bell is its own inter-
C^reter and speaks directly to the heart. So intimately have bells been identified with people that we have given the bells personal qualities. We have given them names and looked upon them as close friends. We have blessed them wth the prayers of the church. 
^Ve in America, for the most part, have thought of bell sounds and bell music as something distinctively Euro­pean. I say "for the most part" be­
^xause many Americans know only too 
^vell that the history of America has bells in it. It is true we have no Big Ben whose deep tones have shattered the fogs of London and told the British people of tragedies and triumphs. But, we do have a Liberty Bell which is now the silent symbol of our dearly fought-for liberties. Like the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, it reminds us of our 
•heritage of heroes. It has been said, 
'. . . the sweetest of all unheard melo­dies is that of the Liberty Bell. That it will continue to ring soundlessly throughout our land is assured. . . ." 
Europe, indeed, has its many hon­ored shrines, its centuries of customs with bells, its ancient cathedrals where bells of every kind are identified with all human adventures. People have learned from childhood to listen to and love their bells. 

By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '41 
America, too, has its heritage of bells. We have learned from those who went before us to listen and to love. The Pilgrims brought bells with them. The white-walled spires of New England churches were a majestic sight and a melodic sound. The vast miles of prairie lands were marked with the ruts of wagon wheels, with small mounds and wooden crosses, with the boom towns of a brave people. And in all these treks and towns a bell spoke a warm language to a pioneer people. Missionaries in the far West moving up from the South could hear the lovely wet sigh of the sea and the hoarse cry of distant birds, but these men were never alone for they had God to think about. After hard work and tired years their Mission Churches were linked with bell sounds up the coast of California. These Missions and Mission bells have become a part of histor)', a theme for songs, a legacy of love. 
The sound of bells, the music of bells, has ever been part of America. It is not mere coincidence that the Liberty Bell broke its heart in singing out its joy. Bells of one kind and an­other are no strangers in our land. They have rung out to tell a baby bom, a danger near, a call to arms, the flight of a soul to God. 
Bells in ever)' nation were named for the part they served: seeding, har­vest, curfew, market, court, passing and burial. The Gabriel Bell rang to awaken people for work. There was also the Mass bell, the bell for the Angelus and the Vespers. And just as bells were named for functions they freedom. I stress these dates because it is easy to confuse the year of the 
ser\'ed, many had their own individual  
names and were baptized and had  
godparents.  
The sound of Notre Dame is a bell  
sound. Anyone who has ever been on  
campus knows this. From the very  
beginning Father Sorin and his com­ 
panions wanted to fulfill the urging of  
the psalms: "Praise Him with bells;  
praise Him with high sounding cym­ 
bals." In 1844 the belfry of the old  
church was blo\vn over. Down with  
the spire went the bell and it cracked.  
I quote from the Scholastic of Oc­ 
tober 1876: "When the tower of the  
new church of Our Lady of the Sacred  
Heart reached its actual height of 120  
feet, the great bell was elevated, with­ |  
out any accident, to its present per­ 
manent place from which it sends  |  
forth its clear and sweet sounds over  ,  
plain and hill, filling the air with a  
harmony never known before along  
the banks of the St. Joseph. There it  
stands surrounded by a chime of 23  
bells ever ready to do homage to their  
peerless queen, and its sonorous voice  
well nigh drowns all the voices of its  
companions the moment it begins its  
booming."  
With great pomp and ceremony the  
great bell and the statue surrounding  
the golden dome were blessed. The  
impressive rituab of the church were  
complied with, bishops and clergymen  
adding their dignity to the occasion.  
Even the red habit of a cardinal, the  
beloved Cardinal Gibbons, was seen.  
At that time, the set of chimes was  
designated as "The Immaculate Con­ 
ception" and each bell received the  
name of some saint.  
The spirit of '76 was not lost to  
those who arranged the ceremony back  
in 1876. That year was a great year  
for it was the centennial year of our  


More About the Bells 
carillon with the year of the big bell. 
I really don't think anyone should 
lose sleep over a few dates, but it is 
just as easy to be correct. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
Lehmann Chosen to Pilot 
1962 FOOTBALL RECORD 


1963 N. D- Football Squad 
Joseph Robert (Bob) Lehmann \\-iIl captain the 1963 Notre Dame football team. The announcement on the junior guard was made here at the annual squad dinner on Dec. 5. 
Lehmann, a junior, played right guard this past season, started all 10 games, had 367 minutes of playing time and was credited with 61 tackles. He also blocked one kick. Last year, as a sophomore. Bob was die number two right guard, but still had 258 minutes of action and made 41 tackles. 
From Louisinlle, Ky., Bob is an honor student majoring in mechanical engi­neering. He is a graduate of Flaget high, in Louisville, which is also tlie alma mater of fonner Irish star Paul Homung. 
Thirty-nine members of tlie 1962 Notre Dame football team were awarded monograms for participation in die 10-ganie schedule, according to a joint announcement by Athletic Di­rector Ed Krause and Head Coach Joe Kuharich at the dinner, made following the regular winter meeting of the Faculty Board. 
The list includes 15 seniors, 17 juniors and seven sophomores. The monogram winners are: 
ENDS: Tom Gober\'ille, junior, Chi­cago, 111.; Jim Kelly, junior, Clairton, Pa.; Dennis Murphy, senior, South Bend, Ind.; John Muiray, junior, Newark, N. J.; John Simon, junior, St. Louis, Mo.; Clay Stephens, junior, Burlingame, Calif.; ^Harold Vogel, senior, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
TACKLES: George Bednar, junior, Shavertown, Pa.; Ed Burke, senior, Chicago, 111.; Nick Etten, junior, Chi­cago, III.; Dave Humenik, junior. Port Vue, Pa.; Steve Kolski, senior, Hialeah, Fla.; Marty Olosky, junior, Flint, Mich.; Eugene Penman, sophomore, Chicago, 111.; *John Slafkosky, senior, BeUilehem, Pa. 

GUARDS: Wayne Allen, junior, Wilmington, Del.; Jim Carroll, sopho­more, Atlanta, Ga.; Mike DiCarlo, junior, Clairton, Pa.; Bob Lehmann, junior, Louisville, Ky.; Ken Maglicic, sophomore, Cleveland, O.; *Greg AVood, senior, San Francisco, Calif. 
CENTERS: Bill Burns, junior, Phil­adelphia, Pa.; Ed Hoerster, senior, Chicago, 111.; Norm Nicola, sophomore. Canton, O.; *Bill Kutzavitch, senior. Moon Run, Pa. 
QUARTERBACKS: Frank Budka, junior, Pompano Beach, Fla.; Daryle Lamonica, senior, Fresno, Calif. 
HALFBACKS: Ron Bliey, sopho­more. New York, N. Y.; Don Hogan, sophomore, Chicago, 111.; Tom Mac­Donald, junior, Downey, Calif.; Frank Minik, senior, Vandergrift, Pa.; ^Charlie O'Hara, senior, Milmont, Pa.; Bill Pfeiffer, junior, Chicago, 111.; Denny Phillips, junior, Mt. Lebanon, Pa.; Ed Rutkowski, senior, Kingston, Pa. 
FULLBACKS: Bill Ahem, senior, Evanston, 111.; Joe Farrell, sophomore, Chicago, III.; Gerry Gray, senior, Balti­more, Md.; *Joe Maxell, senior. Glen-side, Pa. 
Also awarded monograms were Senior Manager John McFadden, Chi­cago, 111.; Associate Manager Tom Elzen, senior, Jackson, Miss.; and As­sociate Manager Nick Varollo, senior, Nashville, Tenn. 
* Denotes Senior Semce Monogram. 
Notre Dame 13 Notre Dame 6 Notre Dame 8 Notre Dame 7 Notre Dame 6 Notre Dame 20 Notre Dame 43 Notre Dame 21 Notre Dame 35 Notre Dame 0 
TOTAL 159 Oklahoma 
Purdue Wisconsin M!ch!i;an State Northwestern Na^"y Pittsburgh North Carolina Iowa Southern Calif. 
7 24 17 31 35 12 22 
• 
7 12 25 
192 

Monograms Awarded at Football Banquet in December 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 

• FINAL 1962 FOOTBALL STATISTICS 

TEAM STATISTICS PUNTING DEFENSIVE STATISTICS 
N.D. Team Statistics Opp. Player No. Yds. Aug. Tackles: Hoerster 73; Lehmann 159 POIi\TS SCORED 192 
Lamonica 49 1789 36.5 61; Carroll 59; Budka 51; Gray 140 FIRST DOWTSfS 138 Budka 1 19 49; Bednar 45; Pfeiffer 39; Ma­77 by Rushing 91 glicic 35; MacDonald 33; Nicola 
56 by Passing 39 7 by Penalties 8 
RUSHING 29: Gober\-ille 25: Penman 22; A1382..._ YARDS RUSHING 1760 Player TC Yds. Aug. Allen and Kelly 21; Bums and 449 _... TIMES CARRIED 435 Hogan 90 454 5.0 Phillips 19: Rutkowski 17; Burke 
3.08 Yards-per-tiy 4.05 Farrell 70 278 4.0 
and Olosky 15; DiCarlOj Pivec 1160 YARDS PASSING 870 Bliey 57 167 2.9 
and Stephens 14; Etten, Hogan, 195 Passes Attempted 146 Lamonica 74 145 2.0 

Humenik and Murphy 13; Minik 90 Passes Completed 67 .A.hem 25 97 3.9 

12; Murray and Simon 10; Ahem 

.462 Completion Percentage 459 Gray 28 94 3.4 15 Passes Intercepted by 16 Minik 22 61 2.8 9; Farrell 6; Sherlock 5; Lamon­166 Yards Int. Returned 75 Rutkowski ...... 16 52 3.3 ica 3; Dennery and O'Hara 1. 2542 TOTAL OFFENSE 2630 Phillips 18 38 2.1 50 PUNTS 42 Budka 12 21 1.8 
Passes Broken Up: Budka 8; Mac­Pl808 Total Yards 1439 MacDonald .... 10 14 1.4 

Donald 5; Phillips 4; Gray and 36.2 Average 34.3 Lind 8 13 1.6 

Pfeiffer 2; Bums. Goberxalle, 

104. Yards Punts Returned 256 Ma.xwell 3 9 3.0 Hoerster. Kelly. Lamonica and 
26 FUMBLES 26 Huarte 3 —14 11 Ball Lost 17 Szot 13 —47 Rutkowski 1. 
SCORING Player TD FG PAT TP KICKOFF RETURNS Blocked Kicks: Gober\'ille 2; Leh­Farrell 4 0 0 24 Player No. Yds. Avg. mann 1. 
Kelly 4 0 24 Bliey 13 311 23.9 Lamonica 4 0 24 
Hogan 9 206 22.9 Opponents' Fumbles Recovered: 
Rutkowski 1 17 23 Minik 2 64 32.0 
Carroll, Pfeiffer, Phillips, Pivec 

JHogan 3 2 20 Rutkowski . 2 42 21.0 
and Stephens 2; Gray, Hoerster, 

Ahem 2 0 12 MacDonald .... 2 39 19.5 
Kelly, Lehmann, Minik, Murray 

Minik 2 0 12 Budka 1 20 
Bliey 1 0 6 Farrell 1 19 and Simon 1. Phillips 1 0 6 Phillips 1 19 Stepiiens 1 0 6 Gray 1 10 Snow 0 2 2 Burns 1 5 
N.D. TOTALS 23 21 159 Kelly 1 3 OPP. TOTALS 28 18 192 

PASSES INTERCEPTED 
PASSES CAUGHT 

PUNT RETURNS Player No. Yds. TD
n'layer No. Yds. TD Player No. Yds. Avg. MacDonald 9 81 0
Kelly 41 523 4 Minik 6 41 6.8 Gray 2 23 0Hogan 12 146 0 Rutkowski . 2 28 14.0 Murphy 1 25 0
Stephens 5 93 1 Goberv'ille 1 17 Snow 1 23 0Minik 5 66 1 
Bliey 2 10 5.0 Budka 1 10 0
Snow 4 46 0 Phillips 3 8 2.7 Lamonica 1 4 0
Murray 3 35 0 Rutkowski 3 —3 0 Phillips 2 47 1 
PASSING 
Sherlock ._ 2 39 0 Pivec 2 32 0 
Player Att. Camp. Int. Yds. TD Pel.
Gober\'ilIe 2 29 0 jfarrell 1 27 0 
Lamonica 128 64 7 821 6 .500 
Simon 1 20 0 Budka 1 19 0 Szot — 45 18 6 244 1 .400 Bliey 1 17 0 
Huarte 8 4 0 38 0 .500 
Murphy 1 14 0 Ahem 1 9 0 Budka 9 2 3 25 0 .222 Gray 1 5 0 
0 Rutkowski 9 1 0 20 0 .500 
\IacDonald 1 0 tind 1 0 Rascher 3 1 0 12 0 .333 
Notre Dame Alumnus, YearEnd, 1962 11 
PCQCG Corp s (continued from page 6) we weren't perfectly sure they knew the answer to this third one, we also taught them what the United States was all about. We also gave them some prettj- good physical drill. We taught them some first aid and hygiene. We had a wonderful group of young people: eight nurses, eight agricultural experts, four home econ­omists; communit>' development people, social workers, people with experience in publication, photography, radio and the like; and even four foresters, who would be ver\- helpful in Southern Chile, where they have great forests but ver>- little paper industr>­
These past two weeks I fulfilled a promise of going down to see each one of them wherever they happened to be working. I might add that this is an eas)- kind of promise to make in August and not so easy to fulfill in .^pril. But in any event the promise was valid and on .•\pril 9 I left New York, flew to Chile and, in the ensuing two weeks, traveled some 3,000 miles by jeep and antiquated train and truck and land rover and burro or you name it. 
Half of our people are already in wintertime down there because they are ven- close to the .Antarctic in the southern region and far down below the other side of the Equator. I saw some 30 or 40 of these boys and girls living in places where for months they had to sleep on the floor before they were able to contrive some beds. We did give them sleeping bags. I tried sleeping in most of the places they were sleeping and must admit that I came back with a prize collection of bedbuj bites as well as ileas. I tried eating their food, and while I didn't get too sick I must say I didn't put on any weight. Some of our youngsters have lost up to 30 pounds— the boys mainly. The girls have taken over all of the food prepara­tion for these 12 schools so some of them have put on some weight. But the interesting thing was that I did not hear, in this 3,000 miles of travel and talking mainly to Chileans, a single bad word about any one of our volunteers. .All I heard was praise. -All I heard ivas this is some kind of .American we have never known before. Here are young people who have given up jobs at $600 a month to come down here and work practically for nothing— they get $75 a month after they get back home if they put two years in. If they don't put in the nvo years, they subtract their 
travel cost. These young people are living without hot water in the 
middle of winter, they arc living on rather simple diet, they are^ 
eating the same food the peasants arc eating although they are 
preparing it a little better than the peasants used to prepare it. 
They are living in conditions that call for not just generosity but 
often heroism. 

I arrived one night in a place called Rio Negro, Black River, and it was a black day at Black River, I want to tell you. One of our youngsters who happened to be a Notre Dame boy—^Tom Scanlon, who was a Woodrow Wilson winner last year and put in a year of graduate study at the University of Toronto before volunteering for the Peace Corps—had just got back from a four-hour trip in his jeep down the side of a mountain where he had been visiting some Indians who had a village up there. 
The Indians said to him: "Well, you have been up here three! times. You seem to be honest, although wc distrust you because you are an ,American and Americans have never been interested in us. But if you are really willing to help us, here is what you can do. In about one month the snows are going to come, and when the snows come we will have three to five feet of snow all the way up this mountainside to the spot near the top where we live. And if you are really serious, you can drive that little jeep of yours to within 20 kilometers of this village—that's where the snow line begins—^and then, you can walk 20 kilometers through three to five feet of snow and if you get here and you are still alive, then we will sit down and talk to you for a whole week because wc arc not going anyplace." ^ 
I said, "Tom, what are you going to do about it?" He replied,' "Wc are going as soon as they get their three to five feet of snow— Janet, myself and four Chileans, two boys and two girls who work with this Institute of Rural Education. Wc arc going to climb that mountain in the snow and we are going to spend that week wth them. When wc get through they're not going to be Communists any more, because wc arc going to show them what kind of help we can bring to them. We are not going to talk about Communism, We are not going to talk about democracy. We arc just going to show them by our interest and by our serx-ice to them what it really means." 


Sophomore-Dominated Irish Shine 6-1 in Basketball At Start of Gruelling Holiday Tests in Schedule 
Kentucky at Louisxdlle (Dec. 29), age), Larrj' Sheffield, sophomore play-Illinois at Chicago (Dec. 31), Indiana making guard from Troy, N, Y,, 58 at Fort Wa)'ne (Jan. 2), and then tivo points (14.5 average), and Co-captain home games against North Carolina John Andreoli, senior forward from (Jan. 5) and DePaul (Jan. 9) — that Philadelphia, Pa., 56 points (14.0 was the rugged Notre Dame basketball average). schedule for the Christmas vacation period and e.\tending into early Jan­Scores to date and the remainder of 
uary. the schedule are: Winners of their first six games, 
N D 87—St. Joseph's (Ind.) 
the sophomore-dominated Irish under ND 92-Michigan State Coach Johnny Jordan are most hope­N D 101—St, Francis (Pa.) 
ful of attaining a good 1962-63 record N D 102—Valparaiso in spite of a loss to otherwise luckless N D 82—Western Michigan Butler on December 22. 
N D 74—Creighton Statistics for the first four games N D 59—Butler 
showed that all five starters were scor­ 73  85  70  90  68  48  66 
ing in double figures, and the team as Dec. 29—Kentucky at Louisville a whole had averaged 95.5 points per Dec. 31—Illinois at Chicago Stadium game while holding the opposition to Jan. 2—Indiana at Fort Wayne an average of 79.5. Jan. 5—North Carolina at NOTRE 
Co-captain John Matthews, senior DAME guard from AVater\'liet, N. Y., led the Jan. 9—DePaul at NOTRE DAME scoring parade with 84 points, an Jan. 12—Detroit at NOTRE DAME average of 21.0, Sophomore forward Jan. 14—Buder at NOTRE DAME Ron Reed (LaPorte, Ind,) had 78 Jan. 16—^DePaul at Chicago points and a 19.5 average. Walt Sahm, Jan. 21—^Purdue at Fort Wayne 6-9 sophomore center from Indian­Feb. 7—^Boston College at Boston apolis, Ind., had 61 points (15.3 aver-Feb. 9—St. John's at Jamaica, N. Y. 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
Feb, 13—Gannon College at NOTRE DAME Feb. 16—U.S. Naval Academy at NOTRE DAME Feb. 18—^Bowling Green at Bowling Green Feb. 21—New York University at 
Madison Square Garden 0 Feb. 23—^Detroit at Detroit Feb. 27—Evansville at NOTRE DAME Mar. 2—^Bradley at Chicago Stadium. 
1963 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 

Sep. 28 Wisconsin at NOTRE DAME Oct. 3 Purdue at Lafayette Oct 12 So. Calif, at NOTRE DAME Oct. 19 U,C.L.A. at NOTRE DAME Oct. 26 Stanford at Palo Alto, Calif. (»' Nov. 2 Na>-y at NOTRE DAME Nov. 9 Pittsburgh at NOTRE DAME Nov. 16 Mich. State at East Lansing Nov. 23 Iowa at Iowa City Nov. 28 Syracuse at New York City 
*'Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ALABAMA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birmingliam, Ala. 
ARIZONA 

i Phoenix—Hr. William J. Dunn, '47, 310 E. Keim 
Dr., Plioenix, Arizona. 1 ^ruMon—Paul A. Matz, '56, 7049 Calle Canis, Tuc-I son, Arizona. 
ARKANSAS 
fori ^milA—James A. Giller, '48, 3715 Free Fcrr>­Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. Lillte Rock—James E. Madigan, '43, 4617 Crest-wood, Little Rode, Ark. 
C3ALIFORNIA 
Bot«M/i«W—Richard L. Bamctt, '56, 630 Golden State Htt?., Baketsfield, Calif. Cenlial—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Secretary), 2430 ^ 1 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. 
Greater Long Deacti Area—Edmond Shectan, '31, 
206 E. 4th, Long Beach 12, CaUf. Los Angeles—Robert L. Gerv-ais, '55, 3219 Rosewood Ave., Los Angeles 66, Calif. A'ortA^fTi—William C. McGo»-an, '41, 1709 New­castle Dr., Los Altos, Calif. Orange County—F. Steve Finan, *37, 2864 Monroe, Anaheim, Calif. Sacramento—Alfred A. Kaelin, . '55^ 27S4 Harkncss St., Sacramento 18, Calif. .yon D!ego~Joha H. Cawley, Jr., '49, 2836 Deer-park Dr., San Diego 10, Calif. 
San Fernando I'alley—Thomas W. Dunlay, '52, 14944 
Napa St., Van Nuys, Calif. 
Son Gabriel Valley—John P. Fnimpton, '49, 2001 

A N. Garey Ave., Pomona, Calif. 
COLORADO 
Colorado Springs—V/iUiam J. Donclan, Jr., '29, 1800 
Mesa Ave., Broadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo. /?*nrffr—Robert H. Zeis, Jr., '54, c/o The Denver Post, 650—15 St., Denver 2, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 
Conneclicul Valley—Robert L. McGoIdrick, '56, Old 
County Highivay, East Granby, Conn. Fairfield Coun<y—William Mulrcnan, '37, 100 Tide­^ mill Terr., Fairfield, Conn. ^Naugatuck—Domenic A. Narducci, Jr., '52, 44 Bea­con Manor Rd., Naugatuck, Conn. New Haven—Dr. Robert T. Warner, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamden 17, Conn. 
DELAWARE 
Richard P. Hairsine, '55, 2219 Hcam Rd., Fairfax, Wilmington 3, Delaware. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBL\ 
William B. Middendorf, '43, Mack-Miller Candle Co., 5329-42 St., N.W., Washington 15, D.C. 
FLORIDA C<ii(rnf—Donald J. Smyth, '49, 955 Leigh Ave., Orlando, Fla. 

•fort Lauderdale—Donald K. Dorini, '53, 6241 S.W. 
5th Ct., Plantation, Fla. Greater Miami—Dr. William J. McShane, '51, 4699 Ponce de Leon Blvd., Coral Gables 46, Fla. North Florida—Gerald B. Johnson, '50, 2644 Red Fox Rd., Orange Park, Fla. 
Palm Beach County—tdviard D. Lewis, '54, 1114 
Russlyne Dr., West Palm Beach, Fla. Pensacola—Patrick J. Gunning, '53, 3770 Summer Dr., Pensacola, Fla. Aft. Petersburg-Tampa—liaA E. Mooney, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
^(/on(n—Robert F. Hochman, '50, 210 North Ave., N.W., Apt. 31, Atlanta 13, Ga. 
HAWAII 
Neil Vasconcellos, '54, 1524 Ulupuni St., Kailua, Hau-aii. 
IDAHO 
J. Richard Cornell, '59, 2408 Broadway, Boise, Idaho. 
Idaho Falls—Jaiocs -M. Brady, '29, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
.4urora—Edward J. Fanning, '39, Fanning Che%Tolet, Inc., 230 S. Broadway, -Aurora, 111. Central Illinois—Thomas Hamilton, Jr., '53, 3349 
S. Fifth St., Springfield, lU. Chicago—Norman J. Barry, '44, 105 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, 111. Decatur—Ambrose C. Morau, '48, P. O. Box 1296, Decatur, III. Eastern Illinois—Edward J. Layden, '41, Hoopeston, 111. Fox Valley—Georse R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, III. 
fotiet—Eugene R. Funk, '59, 715 Second Ave., Joliet, III. 
Kankakee Vattey—Thomas J. Reynolds, '54, 34354 
S. Wnfield, Kankakee, HI. McHenry County—Paul D . McConnell, .'32, 422 
Harrington PI., Woodstock, lU. PMna—Charles Pcrrin, '50, 2101 Independence Dr., 
R.R. 1, Pekin, lU. 
Rock/ord—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 W. State St., Rockford, III. 
Rock River Valley—l-ulie R. Morin, '53, 523 N. 
Dixon Ave., Dixon, III. Southern Cook County—^Robert N. CaiTarelli, '55, 231 E. 22 St., Chicago Heighu, lU. 
INDLWfA 
Calumet District—David W. Ogrcn, '53, 5946 Hoh­
man Ave., Hammond, Ind. Eastern /ni/iMa—Wlliam B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. Jefferson, Hartford City, Ind. Elkhart—^Austin Gildea, '30, 5 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. Evansville—Henry Dewes, *44, 2511 Baj^rd Park Drive, E\'an5\*ille, Ind. Fort \¥ayne—Koben R. Luther, '49, 443 Kinnaird Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. Indianapolis—DrrPavd F. Muller, '37, 4050 Wash­ington BK'd., Indianapolis 5, Ind. 
Michigan City—Donald F. Wendand, '51, 205 
Greenwood, Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley—Geiaid Hammes, '53, 545 E. 
Angela, South Bend, Ind. Terre Haute—James E. Sulliran, '55, 539 Monterey, Terre Haute, Ind. Wabash Valley—James W. Glaser, '50, P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. 
IOWA 
Bor/;nj/oa—Richard Ddaaey, '37, 1000 N. Fifth St., Burlington, lou-a. Cedar Rapids—^A. James ifurray, '60, 3701 Kcn­crcst Drive, N.E., Cedar Rapids, low-a. Dts 3/o:ii«—James F. Boesen, '54, 4109—30 St., De5 Moines 10, lo^-a. Dubuque—Ktv. William Kuosch, '37, Our Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Fcstina, lovva. 
Sioux-Land—Viaymond B. Dugsan, *43, 3244 Jack­son, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
TH'Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, MoHne, £ . Mo> line)—John L. Bush, '52, 1609 Central Ave., Bettendorf, Iowa. 
KANSAS Easttm Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, *49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 
Saltna—John C, Bro»7ie, '51, 5th & Court Sts., Clay 
Center, Kansas. IVichita—John L. Weigand, '54, 303 N. Dellwise, Wichita 8, Kansas. 
KENTUCKY 
Carl B. Ratteiman, '37, 428 Twinbrook Rd., Louis­ville, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 
New Orleans—John E. Petilbon, '52, C. A. Sporf & Co., Commerce BIdg., New Orleans, La. Northern Louisiana—George J. Despot, *45, 517 Market, Shreveport, La. 
MAIPfE 
WilUam M. Salter, '57, 34 Windsor Ave., Augusta, Maine. 
MARYLAND 
Baltimore—William L. Gaudreau, '53, Frofesstonal BIdg., 330 N. Charles St., Baltimore 1, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County—Fiatik M. Linehao, '45, 29 Buir 
Dr., Dalton, Mass. Boslon—Timothy J. Toomey, '30, 12 Windemere Ave., Arlington 74, Mass. Pioneer r<i//«y—Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, 11 Pyndion Rd., Holyoke, .Mass. 
MICHIGAN 
Battle Creek—Riymoad R. Allen, '40, 409 Orcliard PI., Battle Creek, Ilfich. Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles, Mich. 
Blue Water Dislricl—Wmiam L. Wilson, '42, *m> 
Gradot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. BMrtom—Richard W. King, '37, 436 Highvicw, Dearborn, Mich. Detroit—W, Jerome Ashley, '33, 8829 HubbeD, Detroit, Mich. «ml—Walter G. Nagel, '56, 1921 Castle L»oe, Flint, Mich. Gogebic Range—Eugene MR, Zna , '40, Wright ft Zinn, Michaels BIdg., Ironwood, Mich. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—James B. 

Nachteball, '51, 1031 Truxton, N.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. Hiawathaland—Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 LaJ­tngton St., Escanaba, Mich. yacJtiou—Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jack­son, Mich. Kalamazoo—Joseph O'Kecfe, '44, O'Keefe Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kalamazoo, KGch. Laniinf—Robert H. Mooney, Jr., '52, 2329 Cumber­land Rd., Lansing 6, Mich. Monroe—Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 RfTcniew, Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—^James Morse, '57, 2337 Vincent Rd., Muskegon, ^Gdi. 
Saginaw Valley—Gerald E. Carroll, '46, 2124 Si«h 
St., Bay City, Mich. Top of Michigan—EdKaid L. Moloney, '17, 4IS East State St., Cheboygan, Midu 


Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End. 1962 13 
MINNESOTA 
DuIuthSuperior—Jamcs P. Keough, '35 (Treasurer), 2705 E. Fifth St., Duluth, Mnn . Twin «<;«—Thomas P. McDonald, '57, 1923 Princeton Ave., St. Paul 5, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—George J. Higgins, '53, c/o Employers Mutual of Wiscoimn, 210 W. Tenth St., Kansas City, Mo. 
St. Louii—James Pudlowski, '54, 3636 Gasconade, St. Louis, Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Graincy, '43, 906—11 Ave., Helena, Mon­tana. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—^J. Emmet Root, '55, 1109 N. 60lh St., Omalia, Neb. 
NT;W JERSEY 
C«n(r<i/—Thomas F. Kenneally, '30, Box 257, Mid­dlcbush, N.J. New Jersey Share—George A. Bariscello, Jr., '44, 416 Burlington Ave., Bradley Beadi, N.J. New Jersey—K. Bruce Dold, '53, 9 Fcrncliff Terr., Glen Ridge, N.J. South Jersey^—Jimes B. Carson, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, N.J. 
NEW MEXICO 
Ricliard R. Everroad, '41, 2323 Morrou- Rd., N.E., AIbuquen)ue, N.M. 
NEW YORK 

Albany—Fr:iaV E. O'Brien, '58, 99 BrooUine Ave., Albany, N.Y. Buffalo—^John M. Considine, '49, 116 Huntington Ct., WiUiamsvUle 21. N.Y. CenlriJ—Thomas F. Quinlan, '53, 226 Roosevelt Ave., Syracuse 10, N.Y. Gatden Circ/e—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parlnvay Lane, Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson Valley—Don^M J. Reynolds, '53, 118 South Ave., Poughkeepsie, N.Y. Mohaxk Valley—L. Daniel Callan, '49. 62 Pearl St., New Hartford, N.Y. Neui York Ci'l)—Edward B. Fitzpatrick, Jr., '54, 333 Emory Rd., Mineola, N.Y. Rochester—Joba C. Casey, '55, 345 Clover St., Rochester 10, N.Y. Schenectady—^John F. Hurley, '37, Mgr., Sales Pro­motion & Training, Gen. EIcc Co., One River Rd., Schenectady 5. N.Y. Syracuse—Sec "Central New York" Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N.Y. Triple Ct(i£i—Joseph P. Galloway, '51, 29 Norman Rd. (MR97), Binghamtoo, N.Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

Donald J. Kelsey, '48, 1115 Westridge Rd., Greens­boro, N.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bis­marck, N.D. 
OHIO 

JJATOH—William I. Lammers, '53, 455 Hillwood Dr., Akron 20, Ohio. GnKon—Edward A. Mahoney, Jr., '41, 3421 Park-ridge Gicle, N.W., Canton, Ohio. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
Cincinnati—Jobn R. LaBar, '53, 6334 Glade .Ave., Cincinnati 30, Ohio. Cleveland—'TUom:is F. Bremer, '46, 1375 Inglcwood Dr., Clcvebnd Heights 21, Ohio. 

Cofum6ur—Robert J. Kosydar, '53, Kosydar & Dilen­schneider, 16 E. Broad St., Columbus 15, Ohio. i>a>lon—Walter T. Grady, '43, 4888 Goodyear Dr., 
Dayton 16, Ohio. Hamltton—Jcromc A. Ryan, '41, 353 South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. .\firitlfrfd—Richard L. Walter, '41, 1146 Springbrook Dr., Mansfield, Ohio. Northwestern—Paul Doran, '37, 1503 W. WajTie St., Lima, Ohio. Okio J'oile}-—James J. Hatanzo, '52, 25 Courthind, Wheeling, W. Va. 5anrfusl-j-—Richard C. Hohler, '47, 2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio. TCSin—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. Toledo—U. Joseph Kalbas, '56, 541 Tenny^n PI., Toledo 10, Ohio. I'oungj/orfn—Charles J. McCruddcn, '57, 124 Prest­wick, Yoyngstown, Oliio. 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City—John A. Hobbs, '53, 2529 N.W. 51, Oklahoma City 12, Okla. Trifja—Marion J. Blake, '33, 709 Oil Capiul Bidg., Tulsa, Okla. 
OREGON 

H. Paul New-man, '55, 13145 S.E. Kuehn Rd., Mil­waukic 22, Oregon. 
PENNSYLVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Katter, '41, 
U.S. Bank Bldg., Johnstown, Pa. Erie—^Anthony J. Zambroski, '52, 3617 Cascade St., Erie, Pa. Harriiturf—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Park Ave., New* Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh I'aflej^Robert P. Daday, '52, Smr Route, Allentown, Pa. Monongahela Valley—^Louis W. Apone, *41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Mi/orfef/iJiii—Barton B. Johnson, '48, 310 Fairhill Rd., Wynnewood, Pa. PiKiftureA—Donald W. Bebenek, '52, 1513 Berger Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa. Scranton—C. Richard Marshall, '51, Connell Bldg., Scranton 3, Pa. Wilkes-Barre—Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
Witliamsport—^Joseph Orso, Jr., '55, 641 Oliver Su, Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 

Philip B. Toole, '52, 185 Union St., Atdeboro, Mass. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 

Joseph D. Judge, Jr.. '51. 22 Moore Dr., Wcstwood, Charleston, S.C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

Black HtHi—Bernard Gita, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE 

CAnMonoogn—Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '53, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallie Ave, Chattanooga, Tenn. .Wemp*£i—John M. Reynolds, '56, 409 Cecilia Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

flaflm—Richard J. Lajoie, '42, 9865 Champa Dr., Dallas 18, Texas. El PBIO—Edivard T . Jennings, '53, 312 Olivta Cirde, £1 Paso, Texas. 
Hoallon—Alfred C. DcCtane, Jr., '53, 4939 Valkeith, Houston 35, Texas. f^ Midland-Odessa—Joha L. O'Hem, '37, 1001 W. 25, * Odessa, Texas. fiio Grande Valley—Rohcrt Azii, '49, 1205 W. Eliza­beth St., Brownsville, Texas. Son Jnlonio—Leo J. Paradise, '49, 119 Tunberland Dr., San Antonio 9, Texas. 
UTAH 

Don J. Roncy, '58, 320 East Fourth, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
VIRGINIA f 

Leo F. Burke, '44, 900 Blanlon Ave., Richmond, Va. TtdeK0l«r—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 8033 Wedgewood Dr., Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

Spokane-Gary A. Myers, '59, W 2825 Holyokc, Spokane 54, Wash. It'wieni—Frederick N. Hoover, '43, 2814—40 Ave., W., SeatUe 99, Wash. 
^VEST VIRGINIA 

Robert L. Scalise, '56, 1014—11th Ave., South Charleston, W. Va. 
Central—Joha D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarks­burg, W. Va. 
WISCONSIN 

Fox River r<iflo^WiUiam R. Maher, Jr., 780 Oak St., Necnah, Wise Cr«n ilaj^-Thomas C. Murphy, '53, c/o Farmer's Friend, 310 Pine St., Green Bay, Wise LcCrosse—}. William Murphy, '52, 930 Cass St., LaCrosse, Wise ^ A/erra/—Augustus H. Stange, "27, 102 S. Prospect St., Merrill. Wise. .Uilaioulcf—Robert L. Grogan, '37, 7227 Aetna Ct., Milwaukee, Wise. Northwest Wisconsin—C. T. Downs, '33, 219'/, S. Barstow, Eau Cbire, Wise. South Cenlro!—John W. Roach, '27, 138 Gtenway St., Madison, Wise. Southeastern—Edwin E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820— 21 St., Radne, Wise. 
>VYOMING 

Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. 
Conoda—Paul H, LaFrambotse, '34, 400 Charest BK-d., Quebec, Canada. 
C*Se—Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C., '42, St. George's College, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santiago, Chile. 
£ciiii(/or—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ectiador. 
Manila—Conrado Sanchez, Jr.. '54, 83 Mayon St.^ , Quezon City, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo Dc Landero, '37, Eugenio Sue No. 220, Mexico City. Mexico. Panama—Lorenzo Romagoza, '45, Bax 3393, Panama, Rep. of Panama. P«ru—Enrique Lulli, '45. Cuzco 440. Lima, Peru, Puerto firco—Paul McManus, '34 (Vice-Pres.), Calle Earie No. 4, Condado, Santurce, Puerto Rico. 
Rome—Vincent G. McAIoon, '34 (Secretary), Pal­azzo Brancaccio, Largo Brancacdo, 82, RomeA Italy. • 
ZheMumm Scene  
' Samples from the spectrum  of their activities attest  
of the variety and vitality of the Notre Dame Clubs  PITTSBURGH — Soft lighting and sweet music permit a momentary reprieve from the Twist at the Pittsburgh Club dance held last summer in the South Hills Country Club ballroom.  

CHICAGO — Among Windy City activities, (left) Chicago Clubbers maintain a permanent office in the 1st National Bank BIdg., a center for committee meetings and prep school interviews, where secretary Marian KorrcU takes reservations for December's Rocknc Banquet. Ladies Auxiliary activity includes (center) the annual St. Patrick's Day Party for the Club Scholarship Foundation, planned in 1962 by (l.-r.) Mrs. Frank Rothing, Mrs. Arthur Martin and Mrs. Alfred Stepan, Jr. At the Sports Night Dinner capping the annual golf outing, (right) Coach Joe Kuharich discusses football prospects with "Chicago American"columnist Bill Glcason. 

DENVER NOTRE DAME CLUB 
DENVER — Not shown in previous coverage of Denver U.N.D. Night festivities were these two presentations. At left, more than S9,500 in scholarship awards included two state-wide Club grants, as (l.-r.) Chairman Carl Eibcrger announced $1,000 to John Geiger, Walscnburg, Colo.; an $8,000 General Motors scholarship to Raymond O'Hayrc, Denver; and $300 to George LeMaire, Denver. At right, Knute Rockne Alcmorial rotating trophies to Colorado Catholic football and basketball champs were presented in ceremonies including (l.-r.) Bill Wagner, accepting basketball award for Denver's Regis High; Ken Adanison, Irish All-American now with the Denver 
^roncos; Eibcrger, retiring president; and Father Joseph Behr accepting the football trophy for Pueblo Catholic High, of. which he is 
principal. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 15 
Buffalo ^ 
GARY WEBSTER, \\ith a low gross of 76, again won the Mary .A. Quinn Memorial Trophy at our annual Golf Outing, August 27th at the Lancaster Country Club. JACK CONSIDINE's 81 — 10 net 
Clubs 71 made him low net champion. Other winners 
Albany, N. Y. 
Universal Notre Dame Xight ^\'as obscnxd by 

the Albany, New York, Club with on enthusiastic 
gathering of alumni and friends at the Shcraton­
Tcn-Eyck Hotel in dou-ntou-n Albany last April 29. 
The highlight of the evening was an address 

by Mr. JAMES ARMSTRONG. In his speedi 
Mr. Armstrong gave the local alumni a concise 
picture of campus life at South Bend and told of 
hovr the University is advancing on its road toward 
"academic excellence." 
Called upon for a short talk by Toastmastcr 

JIM DRISLANE, '38, was a prominent resident 
of the area, Congressman Leo O'Brien of Albany^s 
34th District, a proud alumnus of Niagara Uni­
versity. WILLIAM MURPHY, '38, was also 
called upon to say a few words by Toastmastcr 
Drislane. 
REV. EDWARD O'MALLEY ofTcred the invo­

cation and benediction. Father also had a few 
^I'ords of greeting for the gathering. 
Prior to the dinner, JOHN CAMPBELL, '26, 

hosted a cocktail party which, needless to say, 
added the little something to the evening and 
helped make our Universal Notre Dame Night a 
huge success. 
Among the 100 guests attending were Mr. and Mrs. NED ECHERT, Mr. and Mrs. LOU EM­ERICK, Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM CASAZZA, Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW PICKNEY, Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS CLEMENTE. and Mr. and ifrs. LARRY 0»NEILL. 
The entire evening was planned and arranged for by the Club's Board of Governors and officers, headed by President FRANK O'BRIEN, '57. 
Atlanta 
Atlanta alumni planned a luncheon or dinner get-together during the presence of Alumni Assn. Secretary JAMES E. ARMSTRONG in the city January 27-29 at a district meeting of the Ameri­can Alumni Council, of which he is president. 
Our Universal Notre Dame Night last spring was extremely successful with 78 people in attend­ance. Our total list of alumni and friends in the area is 78. Our success has been greatly imple­mented by the Most Rev. PAUL J. HALLINAN, *32, the new Archbishop of Atlanta, and the pres­ence of FR. JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C.. at our Universal Notre Dame Night. Tlie Club planned a golf outing for the end of October. 
Bakersfield, Calif. 
A dinner held recently by the Bakersfield club in honor of FR. HENRY GEUSS, C.S.C., is pic­tured in this issue. 
Bahimore 
Highlight of the fall was the Baltimore Club's bus trip to Pliiladelphia for the Navy game, ofTer­ing game ticket, round trip, box lunch and set-ups for refreshments at $11.50 a head. TOM SHINE was in charge of the outing. 
—ROBERT F. HOCHMAN, '50, Pres. 

Bengal (East Pakistan) 
A summer Pakistan Letter reported the 15th Anniversary of ARCHBISHOP LAWRENCE L. GRANER, C.S.C.. '24, as Episcopal Superior of the Archdiocese of Dacca, and the visit of VERY REV. CHRISTOPHER J. O'TOOLE, C.S.C., in his 12th and last year as Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. It also had word on dozens of Holy Cross priests and brothers in the area, including FRS. LARRY BAUER, '31, and JACK BIRKMEYER, '53, in Ranikong; FR. FRED BERGMANN, '35, pastor at Mathbari; FR. Bn X HICKENS, '42, at St. Joseph's Church, Dhar«nda; FR. BILL GRAHAM, '44, president of Dacca's Notre Dame College; BISHOP GAN­GULY, plus FRS. OREL SECOR, GEORGE FOFE, BOB McKEE, TONf ZIMMER^L\N, BOB STEIGMEYER, JOE TIERNEY, BILL EVANS, GERRY McMAHAN, J. LORUSSO, CHARLIE YOUNG, J. VANDEN BOSSCHE, CHESTER SCHNEIDER, GENE HOMRICH, ALFRED 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
NEFF, WALT MARKS, BILL .MONAGRAN, DICK TIM.M, etc.; and BROS. EUGENE LcFEU\^RE, CHARLES HILL, .MARTINIAN ^\^LSON, FELIX SCHONE, THO.MAS O'LINN, JOHN O'LAUGH­LIN, IVAN DOLAN, LEO SCHULTHEIS, DON­ALD BECKER, etc. 
Boston 
The Notre Dame Club of Boston, under the leadership of Prexy TIM TOOMEY, '30, has en­joyed one of the most active and successful Fall actinty schedules in the Club's history. 
A Freshman Welcome Party was the first activity attended by thirty-five members of the Notre Dame Class of 1966 and their parents. JIM .MURPHY, '56, led a chorus of alumni in a fraternal warning against upperclassmen selling warm radiators! 
The Notre Dame Sports Nite honored NICK BUONICONTI, '62, Notre Dame's contribution to the Boston Patriots Professional Football team. Nick did an outstanding job in forecasting the for­tunes of the 1962 Fighting Irish. Film high lights of the 1961 season and Schaefcr beer provided additional entertainment. 
At this Writing plans for three other e\*ents have been finalized. The Annual Notre Dame Victory Dance im-ades the M.I.T. Faculty Club on Satur­day, October 27th, for its usual ^'swinging alTalr." Jim Murphy chairmans while Tim Toomcy handles instructions in the "Twist." 
BILL DACEY, JR., '49. has laid large plans for leading Boston's Notre Dame fans to sec Notre Dame tackle Navy in Philadelphia on November 3. 
Two participants on the trip will be the first prize winners of the Notre Dame Club of Boston Scholarship Fund raffle. NEIL FOWLER, '47, says the Iuck>- names are to be revealed at the October 27th Victor>* Dance. Raffle proceeds and all Scholarship Fund donations are presently chan­neled to the educational support of KEMN GOOD, '64, of Maiden, the present holder of the Boston Club Scholarship. 
The Universal Notre Dame Communion Break­fast is scheduled for Sunday, December 9th. BARRY HYNES, '62, chairman', reports that after Mass at Holy Cross Cathedral, the breakfast will be again held at the Red Coach Grill, Boston. 
Tlie Notre Dame basketball team w*ill be in Bos­ton early in 1963 to take on Boston College. A Boston style reception for the team is planned. 
And finally: The Boston area has not yet reached 100 per cent participation in the Notre Dame Challenge appeaj. Are you working on the solu­tion or are you a part of the problem?? 
—BOB ^URR, '58, Secy. 

%vere: JOHN F. ENDERS, PAT RYAN, Class of 1966, DANA FirZPATRICK and Jack Brcdcn­bcrg, who was a guest of Chairman GEORGE FERRICK. An excellent movie of the 1962 ^fas­ters Tournament highlighted the evening's enter­tainment. 
Our September 6th meeting was held in Buffalo at the University Club. Director BILL LAWLESS selected HOWIE BURKE as chairman for our initial fall gathering, which is traditionally Father and Son Night for all freshmen. President J.ACK ^ CONSIDINE indoctrinated our guests on the pur-" pose and workings of a Notre Dame Alumni Club and the x'alue of a liberal education (the humani­ties) in preparing for a business career. A morie from the University stressing undergraduate life and refreshments completed an enjoyable evening. 
We congratulate Barbara and JI.M .AUSTIN, chairmen of the splendid "Family Picnic" held September I6th at the beautifully located farm of Mr. and Mrs. CLEM CROWE in the Eden NCTV York Hills. Their hard-working committee consisted of Mr. and Mrs, FR.ANK G.AGLIONE, Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD KLEE, Mr. and Mrs. HARRY QUINN, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HOELSCHER, Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BOLAND, Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS RICHARDS and Mr. and Mrs. PAUL ALLWXIN. Specialized outing equipment was provided by A HENRY BALLING, JR. About 30 .Notre Dame ^ men and their wives enjoyed a perfect late summer day. As special guests they brought with them their 150 children. 
The Parkway Inn on November 13th in Niagara Falls was the location of our next meeting. Director PAUL CARROLL appointed FRANK FORGIONE chairman. GENE O'CONNOR negotiated for the main ballroom of the Lafayette Hotel in down­tou'n Buffalo for our Annual Communion Breakfast on Sunday, December 2nd. Our Mass, as in past years, will probably be at 9:00 A.M. in St. Joseph's Chapel next to St. Joseph's Cathedral. Gene had not at this writing, decided upon a guest speaker. 
Our annual Christmas Dance will be held on Friday, December 28th in the Terrace Room of the Statler Hilton Hotel. BOB WEBER is the board member responsible for this club-sponsored activity.^ 
JACK McMAHON has appointed JIM SULLI-^ VAN chairman of the January 29th meeting in Buffalo. Jim ^^'ill announce the location of this meeting soon. 
Financial Secretary JOE BUCKHEIT has an­nounced Club dues-paying members at a record high and still climbing. One hundred and fifty area Notre Dame men have given the Buffalo Club and its officers a vote of confidence by paying their $6.00 annual dues for 1952. President JACK CONSIDINE is confident of at least 200 dues-paying members by December 31, 1962. 
ATLANTA — U.N.D. Night at the Fulton Roof of the Castle View Town and Country Club, according to delayed word from deepest IMxic, was attended by fourscore alumni and friends of the University. Head table personae included (l.-r.): J. Thomas Guiming, vice-president; Robert F. Hochman, president; Very Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, S.M., prcddent of Marist College; Most Rev. Paul J. HaUinan, Archbishop of Atlanta; Paul W. Smith, Foundation general chairman; Rev. John E. Walsh, C.S.G., director of the N.D. ^ Foundation; Richard G. Murphy, secretary; and Mch'in S. Riunmel, treasurer. * 
WALTER F. DALY, JR., Class of '60 and i graduate degree recipient in '62, is a new resident ' of Western New York. A State Parole Officer, he 
lives with his wife, two boys and two girls at 86 Revere Road, Grand Island, New York. 

A newly appointed honorar>' member of the Club is ^frs. Marilyn Stewart, Jack Considinc's vcr>' capable and helpful secretary*. 
—JAMES F. CASEY, '44, Scc>-. 
Calumet Region 

The Officers and Directors of the Calumet Club did not have their annual golf outing this year. Tills event was replaced by a husband-wife trip to the Notre Dame-Wisconsin football game at 
\ Madison, Wisconsin. —DAVE OGREN, Pres. 
Central New Jersey 
The Notre Dame Club of Central New Jersey held a Student Send-ofT party September 6 at the Washington House, Watchung, N.J. BILL RICHt\RDSON, '55, was chairman. 
On November 3 the Club sponsored a trip to the N.D.-Nav>' game in Philadelphia, featuring round-trip bus transportation, ticket to the game, refreshments and sandwiches for only $11. Buses left from Elizabeth, Rahway and Plainfield for the trip, which was under the supcrv'tsion of TOM 
, KENNE.VLLY. 
Central New York 
The Central New York Club began its fall activi­ties with the annual Freshman Scnd-ofT Dinner for the seventeen young men who entered Notre Dame from this area. It was held August 27 at the Hotel Syracuse. We ^vere honored to have REV. THEO­DORE HESBURGH present, along with his mother. It was the first time in five years that Father Hcsburgh had spoken to his home town alumni group. His talk, directed at the freshmen, was about the meaning of being a Notre Dame man, and the importance of protecting one's faith against the dangers of our modern secular world. Following the talk a receiving line formed which gave Father Hesburgh a chance to talk personally 
with many of the four hundred people present. Ar­
• rangements were handled by the new Club President, THOMAS QUINL.\N. .\ssisting him were the other officers: JAMES WALTER, JAMES SCHMIDT and MIKE SHEEDY. The reser\ations were handled by WILLLUI RISER, WILLLVM HASSETT and their wives. 
Other recent events included the annual elections dinner in the spring, and a family picnic organized by Pat and CHARLES GEHRIN. Over one hun­dred attended the picnic at Owasco Lake. Other events were a smoker early in November and the December 8 Communion Breakfast. The final activity for this year will be the annual Christmas Dance. 
—^ —.MICHAEL B. SHEEDY, Seo*. 
Chicago 
Word has been received that FATHER HES­

BURGH will be the principal speaker at our 1963 
Universal Notre Dame Night, which should be 
the biggest event in the history of the Club. 
Watch for additional information, but make plans 
right now to attend. When you receive a notice, 
get on the phone and arrange a table of 10. Let's 
leally show our President what we think of him 
and Notre Dame. 
President JACK BARRY reports that we now 

have the largest dues paid membership in the his­
tory of the Chicago Club — a 100 per cent increase 
in the five year period since 1957. The officers of 
the Club regard this as an endorsement of current 
activities, and will strive to present topflight pro­
grams during the coming year. 
The annual Knutc Rockne Dinner, which has 

developed into one of the Club's major events in 
the past three years, attracted another packed 
house in the grand ballroom of the Pick-Congress 
on Dec. 4. DAVE CONDON, conductor of the 
Tribune's "Wake of the News" column, headlined 
the program. Coach JOE KUHARICH and Ath­
letic Director ED ".MOOSE" KRAUSE led the 
football brigade from South Bend. 
Plans already arc being formulated by the Ladies' Auxiliary for the annual St. Patrick's Day Party. Mrs. Cyrus Frcidhelm is president; Mrs. H. Gilbert Seaman, vice-president; Mrs. Frederick Salmon, treasurer; Mrs. John O'Shaughnessy, recording scc­retar>-; and Mrs. Joseph Madigan, corresponding secretary*. 
Our annual Communion Breakfast again will be 

held during the Lenten season. An announcement 
will be mailed to all members about a month in 
advance. 
RfVY DURST, who has done such an outstanding job as City Chairman of the "Challenge" drive, urges all alumni who may not have contributed as yet for one reason or another to get on the band­wagon so that Chicago \vill be in the 100 per cent clubs.' Detaib of the campaign can be obtained by calling the Club office, AN 3-6063. Ray also would like to thank all those who have done sucli an outstanding job during the campaign. Inciden­tally, DON ROSS now is assistant Foundation di­rector in the Chicago area. 
Six outstanding Chicago boys now are attending the University through the efforts of the Club's Scholarship Foundation. Ray Durst also is president of the Scholarship Foundation. GIL SEAMAN is vice-president; FRANK MILLIG.-\N, secretary; and PHIL FACCENDA, treasurer. Other mem­bers of the Foundation board include President JACK BARRY, THOM/\S BE.\COM (1962 Chicago Club Man of the Year), JOHN MORLEY, JOHN .McGOORTY, JR., BILL REYNOLDS, Mrs. CYRUS FREIDHEIM and Mrs. Gilbert Seaman. 
The Board is proud to announce that the scholar­ship students arc all eminently justifying their selec­tion as scholars at the University. They are: Frank Corrado, junior, communication arts; Anthony Do­hcny, sophomore, premcdicine; Willard Mowrey, freshman. College of Arts and Letters; Harr>' Mc-Kcc, junior. College of Law; Robert Schmitt, fresh­man, College of Engineering; and Paul West, junior. 
premcdicine. Seven Foundation selectees have 
graduated previously and now are leaders in the 
business community. 
The Club's Scholarship Foundation was estab­
lished on Sept. 3, 1953, as the vehifJe of expression 
of the desire of the members to help deserving stu­
dents of promising talents who otherwise would not 
have been able to attend Notre Dame. Thus, a 
serious objective complements the sodal and alumni 
activities of the Club, the scholastic aims of the 
University are furthered, and real leadership is 
developed in the young men selected for financial 
aid. 
Officers and trustees of the Foundation extend 
their deep thanks to the following who have made 
it possible to achieve the Foundation objectives: 
—The Ladies* Auxiliary for its untiring and 
successful efforts in conducting its annual St. 
Patrick's Day Scholarship event, the proceeds from 
which represent the principal source of funds for 
our Foundation, and such other donon who have 
contributed directly to the Foundation. 
—The Cardinal Stritch Youth Guidance Founda­
tion whose efficient and careful student selection 
processes and lofty aims assure meritorious and 
fruitful expenditure of Foundation funds. 
—The University of Notre Dame Avhose magnifi­cent educational facilities and moral tnuning develop our supported students as well-rounded, useful leaders. 
CHUCK FALKENBERG was in charge of Club planning for the football luncheon before the North­western game. The Friday luncheon was held In the Century* Room of the LaSalle Hotel. '^Moose" Krause and CHARLIE CALLAHAN, sports pub­licity director, presented the N. D. picture. Coach Ara Parseghian and Athletic Director Stu Holcoimb represented Northwestern. 
For those of you planning a trip to Europe, re­member that there Is a very active Notre Dame group in Rome. Write or see VTNCE McALOON, Secretary, Notre Dame Center, Palazzo Brancaccio, Largo Brancaccio 82, Rome, Italy. The phone number is 730002. 
And for those of you who prefer the sunny South, an ideal \'acation stop is the annual N.D. convention in Florida. The Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach clubs will host this spring's convention,, which will be held April 26-28 on Grand Bahama Island. The clubs say that hotel, most meals, al( events and round-trip plane fare from the Florida, mainland will cost about 5100 for a couple. For reser\*aiions, write the N.D. Club of Fort I<audcr­dalc, 100 E. Las Olas Blvd., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Tlie phone is JA 2-7951. 
The officers hope that the new Club directory will be helpful to you during the coming year. Once you become accustomed to using it, you'll find that the directory can save you many hours over the course of a year. If you happen to find a mistake in the directory, please call the office (AN 3-6063) with the correction. If you're in the area of the First National Bank Building, stop in Room 1337 and give the information to our secre­tary. The office is used by our %*ariou5 committees and ser^'cs as a meeting place for N.D. men. 
Let's close with a very Merry Christmas from 
BAKERSFIELD Notre Dame alumni of Bakersfield, Calif., attend a dinner held in honor of Father Henry Geuss, CLS.C., a faculty 
member from the University, (from left, sitting): Mrs. Jim Trino, Sue Creel, Mrs. Bob Anspcch, Mrs. Dick Bamett, Mrs. Bryan ^Coleman. Mrs. Al Buechler, Mrs. Louie Soloman; (standing, from left) Jim Trino, Jr., Joe Rothstcin, Bob Anspcch, Dick Bamett, ^Father Geuss, Stan Antongiovanni, Bryan Coleman, Al Buechler, and Louie Soloman. 

Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End^ 1962 17 
the Club's ofHcers and a wish for a wonderful 1963. We hope to see you at all the activities! —PAUL FULLMER, '55, 2nd Vice-Pres. 
Cleveland 
The Cleveland Club Scholarship Fund was the object of a drive during the fall which ended with a drawing in November for an all-cxpensc vacation for two. The drawing was held at a Foundation rally Nox'cmbcr 6 at Rohr's Restaurant. Secretary-JACK COYNE, '54, assisted Chairman JIM BEG­LEY» '40, and his committee on the drive. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Family Communion Breakfast was scheduled for Sunday, December 9, at Immaculate Conception Church. W. T. BE.AR­GIE made the arrangements. 
Columbus 
On August 20, the Notre Dame Club of Colum­bus, Ohio held a reception for new students and their parents at the Columbus Athletic Club. After they saw the film "Notre Dame," parents were able to quiz a panel of three students, seniors Don Rothermich and Jcrr>' Eisenman and sophomore Bob Dilensclineidcr, regarding spending money, per­missions, clothing, laundr>* and other aspects of campus life. Alumni Club President BOB KO-SYDARf '53, moderated the event, and student club president Don Rothermich welcomed the boys to the student body. 
On Saturday, September 8, the Club held its annual back-to-scliool picnic at the Hall Ridge Club in Columbus with seventy-two alumni, stu­dents, dads and friends attending. Managed by Past President DICK KASBERG, '48, and catered by GUIDO ALEXANDER, '44, owner of the Desert Inn, and local Pabst distributor KEN ME\'ERS, MO, the picnic featured basketball, volleyball, stvimming, talk and elbow bending. Only JIM SMITH, '53, could stay with the students in basketball; PAT CANTWELL, '52, and FRANK BIGGERT, '50, preferred to take their exercise by the swimming pool. The student-alumni toudi football game was won this year by the alumni, 6-0. .\ftcr ART ULRICH, '48, ncariy returned the. opening kickofT for a touchdown, the alumni's hard rushing line featuring '48 men TOM FRY and DICK KASBERG, and '53 men BOB KOSYDAR and JACK DILENSCHNEIDER, as well as AL EICHENLAUB, '52, kept the studcnu in their own territory the entire game. Late in the game two *'ringers" combined to score for the alumni when aging guest Ralph Wheat passed long to incoming freshman Harr>- Hoskins, who was alM) playing for the alumni. Among the spectators were Dr. TOM HUGHES, '28, whose son Tom enters N.D. this year; DICK EICHENLAUB, '51; a\R L KEGEL­MAYER, '41; DON WHITE, '47; RAY KREBER, '54; RUPE EICHENLAUB, '52; JOHN MURPHY, '28; DR. JOE HUGHES, '31; JOE RY.-\N, '30; LEE KLETZLY, '31; and DR. HENRY HUGHES, '41. Pleading that ticket taking chores kept them from adding their talents to the alumni squad were Vice-President MIKE SQ^NLON, '54 and treas­urer DON WEILAND, '52 %vho also watched from the sidelines. Among the alumni arriving in time for the dinner and the after-dusk showing of the film of the 1961 N.D.-Purduc game were JOHN GLASGOW^ 54; JOHN DEBITETTO, '41; GEORGE GLASGOW, '58; TOM MARTIN, '58: JOHN RINER, '53; JIM HUGHES, '58; GEORGE WATLING, '33; FRANK McGRAW, '58; JOHN GUZZO, '62; AL FRERICKS, '41; TED FRE­RICKS, '39, whose boy starts at N.D. this year; HARRY NESTER, '20; HERM BITFNER, '24; DAVE HAGANS, '55; BERNIE Iw\CHNER; JOE RIEGER, '57; and Congressman SAM DEVINE, '40. 
On October 6 the Club ran its annual football special to the Notre Dame-Purdue game at Notre Dame. 
—JACK DILENSCHNEIDER, '53, Secy. 

Gmnecticut Valley 
An enjo>"able "Back to School" dinner was held September 12 at The Hartford Club. We were pleased and proud to bid farewell to 10 outstanding boys from the Greater Hartford area. Many thanks to FRANK AHEARN, '27, and JIM FLAHERTY, '53, for their help in thb endeavor. 
On Sunday, December 9th — Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday — the club will have attended 9:00 a.m. Mass at St. Patrick and St. Anthony Church followed by breakfast at the Statler Hilton Hotel. Efforts are being made to obtain an outstanding speaker for this occasion. Since this means a well-dcscrvcd morning out for our wives, the turnout is al\\*ays tremendous. 
28 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year Endj 1962 
NORTH FLORIDA —President John F. Corrigan (left) is a rapt listener to Dean of Freshmen William Burke*s address in this delayed photo of Universal Notre Dame Night ceremonies in Jackson\*ille, Fla., last spiing. 
Tlie Club is also formulating plans for a Mardi Gras dance. Proceeds will be used for the estab­lishment of a scholarship fund. 
If any of you have not yet responded to the Challenge .Appeal, please do so now. It's not so much the amount that counts but the fact that you gave something. 
—BOB McGOLDRICK, Sec>-. 

Dallas 
The Notre Dame .-Mumni Club of Dallas is plan­ning to have tlie Universal Notre Dame Night on Tuesday, April 16, 1963. .Mr. HAL F. TEH.\N, '48, will be the cliainnan. 
We arc certainly looking forward to seeing *'M0OSE" KRAU5E again, as he always gives sucli a fine talk. The ofliccrs and directors are looking forward to meeting with JIM ARM­STRONG in December. 
—DICK LrUOIE, '42, Pres, 

Dearborn 
The annual picnic was held on June 24 at Edward Hincs Park^vay. Tliere were 23 couples and some 100 children present. Tlie day was spent in playing softball between the fathers and sons, shoe kicking contest for the ladies and games and races for boys and girls of all ages. Every child won a prize. 
The summer dance was held on July 28 at John Fish's Gardens. Again 23 couples were present, but not the same 23. The back yard was decorated with Japanese lanterns, tables with flowers and candles. The Notre Dame couples and friends enjoyed an evening of dancing, food and the usual refreshments — both "hard" and **sort." There was some "soft" left over. Just as clief DICK KING started cooking the hot dogs, the rains came — but Dick was saved by two umbrellas of the N.D. wives. Our thanks to the following wives for the delicious food and other assistance: Mary Fish, Ruth Gass, Pegg>* Fislicr, Pat Kluding, Helen Hicks, Pat Sarb, and Roscmaric King. 
Our annual golf outing was held at Warren Valley on Sept. 27. R.\Y DcFAUW was quite chip with his chipper. The evening's entertainment consisted of dinner, beer, and cards. Chairman JIM KLINK donated a wedge for door prize — and who do you think won the wedge? Not Jim, but he tried. 
At the Sept. 27 monthlv meeting, BILL De-CRICK won the bottle. JERRY KELLY the mone>', and the rest of us won the experience. Meetings were also held at DICK KING's home on Oct. 12 to plan the N.D.-M.S.U. football trip and at JERRY SARB's on Oct. 26 to rehash the trip and plan an annual fund-raising drive. 
—GEORGE C. BALL, Secy. 

Decatur ^ 
On November 15 the annual election was held, ^ and following is a list of the new officers of the 
N.D. Club of Decatur: BUZZ MORAN, '48, presi­dent; JOHN F. FOY, '35, vice-president; STEVE GRALIKER, '42, secretary-; JERRY McNAMARA, treasurer; BERNARD MARTY, JOSEPH DONO­VAN and NICK NEIERS, directors; and Ri. Rev. MSGR. F. W. KLASNER, chaplain. The new officers immediately assumed office. 
—BUZZ .MORAN, Pres. 

Detroit 
The Notre Dame Club of Detroit planned its participation in the Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday on December 9 with Mass at Holy ^ Trinity Church, breakfast at the downtown Holidav ™ Inn. Scheduled speaker was REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C., former president of the University now directing the religious program on campus. LOU BOSCO, '58, was named chairman, assisted by BOB BOGG and a fine committee. 
Alumni gave their full support to the Marian High School Mothers' Club of Birmingham in their sponsorship of a concert by the N.D. Glee Club at Marian on November 29. 
Our vcr>' popular Christmas Party will again be held at the Carmen Tower Key Club. The date is Friday, December 28. The chairman is J.\CK MURRAY, '57. 
—JOHN C. MURRAY, Secy. 

Evansville ^ 
Our local club held a picnic at the Enige farm in September of this year. 
We arc in the process now of planning our Communion Breakfast and our annual Christmas party. 
The names of our officers at the present time are: HENRY DEWES, president; D. PATRICK O' D.^NIEL, vice-president; and CHARLES .M.\.NTON, sec. & treas. 
—CHARLES A. .MANION 

Erie 
LEW SHIOLENO, '49, and LARRY STADLER, '28, co-chairmen for Universal Notre Dame Com­munion Sunday in Erie, have plans almost finalized as this column's deadline approaches. The Dccerabcr^^ 9th affair is scheduled for the Kalikwa Club. ^ 
Club members all have been congratulating TOM B.^TES, '60, on his engagement to Miss Barbara DeSantis. They are planning to get married next summer. DON CRIQUI, '62, spent six weeks in the Air Force this fall. He is now back at his WWYN microphone in Erie and is all set to handle the play by play of the Gannon College basketball game. Don is anxiously looking forward to Fcbru­ar>' 13th when Gannon will be in South Bend to take on the Fighting Irish. Club President TONY ZAMBROSKI, *52, has now settled down to his wrestling-coaching duties after another successful football season. His Cathedral Prep footballers won the city title for the fourth year in a row. ^ ^ 
Many classmates and other alumni attended theW wedding of LEO J. BRUGGER, JR., '61, to the former Miss Thresea Minadeo. JOE BARBER, '36, is back to full time legal duties after a lengthy illness. Joe is looking fit as a fiddle now. MIKE McCORMICK, '61, took in the Notre Dame-Michigan State game this fall. LEO CARNEY, '30, took in the Northwestern game at Evanston. HERB KERN, '54, has now opened his own archi­tecture firm in Erie. 
JIM SCH.AAF, '59, spent some time in Erie and at Notre Dame this fall after finishing up his duties with the Kansas City Athletics for the '62 season. JACK SITTERLE, '60, and his father took in the Notre Dame-Pitt game in South Bend. RICH McCORMICK, '55, ran Into DICK DALEY, '53, / former Erieite now working in Chicago while at the North Carolina game this fall. BOB B.\RBER, '40, and his wife took In the Notre Dame-Na\-y game in Philadelphia. ^ j 
Club officers are going ahead with plans for thcV f ipring and arc starting to make preliminar>' plans for Universal Notre Dame Night. 
—JOHN J. McCORMICK, JR., '53, Secy. 

Flint 
The Sixth annual "Sports Night" was held at the Flint Elks Club on September 17. 
HUGHIE DEVORE was the special guest. Coaches from University of Michigan, Michigan State University and the Uniiersity of Detroi^ were also present. 
ARCHIE CAMPBELL, honorary member of the ^ Notre Dame Club of Flint who was the **Man of W the Year" for 1960, was chairman assisted by 
BILL MINARDO and LEON HART. About 200 were in attendance, and as usual Hughie stole the show with his remarks. 
—JAMES RADIGAN, Sec>-. 

Fort Lauderdale 
Don't forget the Florida State Convention for 1963 has gone International. This wilt be the 6rst International Convention and is to be held on April 26, 27 and 28, 1963 at the Jack Tar Grand Bahama Club at West End, Grand Bahamas, Islands. Contact our club oflices at 100 E. Las Olas Blvd. in Fort Lauderdale for more information and rcser­
> 
\-ation5. 
The Fort Lauderdale Club has published its 1962 Club Directory listing current information on all members in the area, anyone desiring a copy need only request it by dropping a line to DON DORINI, '53, at 6241 S.W. 5th Court, Fort Lauder­dale, 
The Club held its annual TV Party on Saturday September 29th, the occasion being the national telecast of the N.D.-Oklahoma game. Needless to say, all 110 members and guests attending were well pleased with the final score. Amongst those celebrating the Irish victory were Jane and BILL MAUS, '53, Judy and TOM MAUS, '57, CHARLIE BACHMAN, '17, Eunic and DICK BAKER, '53, ED BOLF, '46, FRANK CAREY, '46, PAT DAD­DIO, the PAT(s) LYNCH, '53, Mickie and 
I GEORGE GORE, '48, Margaret and BOB GORE, '31, Bettv and FRANK McGINN. '52, Teed and BILL MOTSETT, '34, ED TRO.MBETFA, '60, and many more. 
On Thursday, October II, the high point of the Club's social year was held, it being, the annual Notre Dame Football Sweepstakes. This year's lucky winner of the trip for two, to both the Micliigan State and the Northwestern games, com­plete with airline tickets, hotel reservations and §300.00 expense money for two was a local attorney. 
' Wil Greaton and his lovely wife, Linda, were most gracious winners, in spite of the fact that he planned to pull for Wisconsin on October 13, being a product of both their undergraduate and graduate schools. Anyway, the evening was a huge success, what with numerous other prizes being awarded and a very lovely dinner being served after­wards. Attesting to the success of the evening were • over 70 members and guests, some of whom were Dolly and TOM WALKER, '42, Belen and TOM MURRAY, '50, Marlene and JOHN McGINN, '54, Marcia and GEORGE McFADDEN, Marilyn and BOB McDONOUGH, '52, Marge and FRANK McDONOUGH,'4I, the Brothers Maus, once again with their lovely wives; DICK GOR\L\N, '57, with his bride of a few months; Pat and JOE GORE, '42, Trudy and GEORGE ERNST, '29; and, of course, my lovely wife Jeane sat with me. See you soon in beautiful Fort Lauderdale. —DON DORINI, '53, Sec>-. 
ft. Wayne 
W Tuesday, September II, saw the Notre Dame Alumni Club's Fall Outing — chicken barbecue and beer on tap throughout the evening. 
Our group ventured to a new site for this year's outing — Croteaus' Reserve. There were volleyball and touch football for the younger generation and card playing in the game house for the older genera­tion. There was also a fishing site for the N.D. anglers. TERRY WARD was chairman of the event. 
The Fort Wayne Notre Dame Club's annual Foot­ball Smoker was held on Wednesday, November 14, 1962, at the Centlivre Hospitality Room. The Guest Speaker was CHUCK LENNON, the assistant basketball coach at Notre Dame. He showed a foot­ball movie and gave us a preview on the 1962-1963 Notre Dame basketball team. Refreshments in­cluded Old Crown Beer and Ale, Alps Brau Beer, peanuts, pretzels, and potato chips. Invited were 
all N,D. Alumni and Friends. Special Guests in­
• cluded the Central Catholic High School and Bishop Lucrs High Scliool coaching staffs. 
Hawaii 
Wc planned a little get-together for the grads and subway alumni here during the football season. Our past affairs usually involving a stag affair to listen to one of the ball games on the radio during the past few years have been outstanding flops. This year the officers decided to try something a little ^different — a stag nitc or afternoon party featuring ^om c football films or Itim clips. The projected date 
for the affair is flexible but set tentatively for the week end of the Southern Cal game. 
We had a dinner on August 30 for our departing freshmen, and also to greet some of the students who have returned for the summer. We were fortunate to have JERRY McCARTHY from the Commerce School in attendance. Each of the 60 people in attendance enjoyed himself I am sure, judging from many comments — favorable ones — which all the officers here have received. Unfortunately no pictures were taken, but perhaps it is a newsworthy 
. item for the .-VLUMNUS magazine. 
—NEIL VASCONCELLOS, '54, Pres. 

Houston 
The Notre Dame Club of Houston held its annual "Back to School" picnic at LARRY KELLY's Madrc Mea Ranch on Sundav, August 12, 1962. D.WID MILLER, '59, and TOM BRENNx\N, '44, served as co-chairmen of the affair. .Among those attending and having a great time swimming, fbhing and relaxing were Nano and BILL PAD.AN, '42; JOHN DEVLIN and familv; Madeline and DON O'BRIEN, '42; Nfarv Lou and PAUL DOYLE, '36; Inez and GEORGE McHALE, '23; Mary Lou and TOMMY GREEN, '27; Gracic and HARRY CALLAHAN. 
Also, Joan and AL DcCRANE, '53; Annette and GEORGE STRAKE, JR., '57; Joan and LEIGH­TON YOUNG, JR., '59; MIKE SILVNNAN, '58; PAT BOLAND, '54; and D.WID H.\NNAH, '62. 
The clcrg>- was well represented with Rev. L. J. Lacey, C.S.B., moderator of the men's club, and Rev. Francis Managhan, C.S.B., chaplain of the ladies' auxiliary. 
Wc planned a Communion Breakfast for De­cember 9, 1962, at Marian High School. The Houston Club will be the scene of our annual Christmas Dance to be held December 27. MIKE SHANNON will serve as chairman of the dance committee and will receive able assbtancc from BILL ANDERSON, '58, and PAT BROPHY. 
—R^VLPH H. SAUER, Secj-. 

Indianapolis 
Once again we had a big turnout of parents and small fry for the Family Picnic. There were several athletic events for the wives and children, and the alumni egg throw was won by BILL SAHM and JOHN O'CONNOR. Thanks to Chairman JACK EIDER for magnificent arrangements. 
On October 13 the Club held its annual Scholar­ship Ball at the North Side K. of C. Handling the various committee assignments were MIKE FOX, BOB KANE, DICK RUWE, MARK FITZ­GERALD and FRAN KENNEDY. 
PETER C REILLY has offered to replace the 
P. C. Reilly Memorial Golf Trophy rccentiv re­tired by JOHN FOLEY. 
DR. JOSEPH GORMLEY was named chairman of the Communion Sunday observance, with Mass at Blessed Sacrament Chapel and breakfast at the 
Marott Hotel on Dec. 9. 
"Holiday on Ice," the brilliant ice revue, was 
sponsored by the Club under the general chakman­
ship of FRANK QUINN on November 7, 1962. 
Thirteen alumni teams worked to assure capacity 
attendance at the Coliseum. 
Other activities include the annual search for scholarship applicants by BOB WELGH, and cultural activities including a Great Books Com­mittee chaired by Mrs. PAT FISHER and repre­sentation on the Archdtocesan Junior Great Books Program by TOM MURPHY. 
—PAUL F. MULLER, .M.D., Pres. 

Jersey Shore 
The University of Notre Dame Club of the Jersey 
Shore was oflicially organized Sept. 12 in a meet­
ing at the Elks Lodge, Asbury Park, N. J. The 
new group has the distinction of being the 200th 
club formed by Notre Dame alumn! throughout 
the world. 
At the charter meeting, the members unanimously adopted the constitution and by-laws and elected a slate of four officers to one-year terms. President of the new organization is GEORGE A. BARI5­CILLO, JR., '44, Bradley Beach. He is an at­torney with offices in Asbury Park at 601 Grand Ave. Other officers are: DR. WALTER F. JUDGE, '49; Spring Lake, vice-president; FRANCIS E. GIBSON, '42; Freehold, New Jersey, secretary; and RAYMOND TIERNEY, Jr., '54, Litde Silver, treasurer. REV. PAUL J. KANE, Glendola, was named club chaplain. 
The constitution, by-laws and officer recom­mendations were prepared by a committee consist­ing of: RICHARD J. BYRNE, '52, Shrewsbury, chairman; RICHARD A. CORDASCO, '50, New Monmouth; CHARLES J. KELLER, '54, Sea Girt; RICHARD SCHERER, '55, Matawan; and EDWIN 
L. VOLL, JR., *48, Toms River. 
Eligibility requirements for the club include graduation from Notre Dame and residency in either Monmouth or Ocean counties. The present club roster lists 98 names with Middletown, Rum-son, Shrewsbury and Spring Lake accounting for 10 members each. 
Other Garden State alumni clubs of the University arc the North Jersey, the Central Jersey and the-South Jersey cli^s. 
In the non-business portion of the dub's first meeting, short talks were presented by PHILIP R. MUNNING, '48, Red Bank, and ED VOLL. Mr. Munntng who recently returned from a reunion at the University, reviewed the new facilities now existing on the campus. Voll, a former Notre Dame fullback, summerized the grid prospects for the "Fighting Irish" in the fall. 
The first project tmdertaken by the club was a Communion Breakfast scheduled for De c 9 at Holy Spirit Church, Asbury Park. At a meeting on Nov. 7 the members were to finalize plans for the 
FLINT — Sports Night at the Flint Elks Club last scasim was in the capable hands of. (from left) Assistant Chairman Leon Hart, Chairman Archie Campbdl and Notre Dame Frosh Coach Hugh Dcvorc, honored guest and principal speaker of the evening. 
Notre'Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 19 
breakfast and consider nominations for the five directorships of the club. 
Kcmsas City 
The North%vcslem game was clioscn for the foot­ball trip this year. Approximately sixty people left Kansas City Thursday noon, October 25lh by Santa Fe Streamliner for Chicago. Thc>- enjoyed first-class accommodations at the Executive House on Chicago*s Near Xorth Side for three nights. Also included in the package trip were transporta­tion by chartered bus to and from South Bend and Chicago and llic ticket for the ball game. Tlie trip was a great success. ED AYLWARD was the chairman. 
The Kansas City Club has raised its "Challenge" pledge from $20,000 to $25,000. AVc are presently awaiting the assignment of a memorial room in the librar>*. 
The Club and the AuxIHarv- will jointly sponsor an event, tentatively set for February 16th. The party is presently in the planning stage. 
—CARL B. ERFFMEYER, '51, Secy. 

Lehigh Valley 
The year's actix-ities began with a Cana Retreat on Passion Sunday at St. Francis Retreat House in Bethlehem. Chairman for the affair was JIM STURM, '57. The group had the distinction of being the first couples retreat to be held at this newly opened retreat house. 
U.N.D. Kight was held on .April 26, at the Americus Hotel in .Mlenlown. Chairman for this affair was GEORGE WALLACE, '36. The guest speaker was novelist JAMES .MICHE.\ER, who spoke on the significance of the 1956 Hungarian re\-oU. Tlie University guest representative wss PROFESSOR FRANK 0'.\L\LLEY, who spoke on the meaning of education at Notre Dame. Honored as kfan of the Year was HUGH McFADDEN, a leading attorney of the area and alumnus of Villa-nox-a and Lehigh University. 
The new officers selected for the coming year were announced, namely: BERT D.ADAY, '52, president; JAMES FUNARI, M9, vice-president; PETE KUCHARCZUK, '53, treasurer; and BOB STRALEY, '53, sccrctarx-. 
—BOB STRALEY, Secy. 

Los Angeles 
Due to the departure of the club's assistant secretary*, JIM NEWMAN, to the San Jose area, an election was called for and as a result ROBERT K. KELLEY, *34, was elected to the post. Incidentally, Bob handled our Freshman Send-off, the result of whidi was quite encotiraging. 
Plans for the Soutliem Califomia-Notrc Dame game were also finalized. On Friday night, No­vember 30, the club sponsored a Pre-Game Rally at the Biltmore Hotel in downtown Los Angeles. Entertainment was furnished by several of tlie better-known personalities in the entertainment field. GENE CALHOUN and JUDGE aVRBERRY were co-chairmen of this event. On Sunday, December 2, the combined clubs of this area sponsored the Annual Communion Breakfast: Mass at Loyola Preparatory School and breakfast at the Chapman Park Hotel. AL WELZE.N'BACH, '29, and I were cochainnen of this event. Incidentally, I have ap­pointed MORT GOODMAN General Chairman of the entire week end. Pertinent to this week end, wc invited FATHER JOYCE, having been informed that FATHER HESBURGH would be in Antarctica, the Foundation Staff, the athletic staff and team to the Communion Breakfast, and the same per­sonnel sans the athletic staff and team to the rally. 
A Christmas dance was also scheduled for De­cember 27. This dance, which is being reinstated as was the Freshman Send-off, will be held in con­junction with the student body. In this regard, I have recently appointed TOM SNEDDON, '63, president of the Cal-Club, as a club liaison man on campus, and MIKE WOODS, '62, to maintain these relations on this end zdong with relations with recent graduates. 
We were extremely gratified to hear of the accept­ance of MORT GOODMAN'S nomination to the National Board. 
—ROBERT L. GERVAIS, Pres. 

Mansfield, Ohio 
J. p. ECHELLE, *62, attended the Family Picnic in July and told us that he would be going to graduate school at tlie University of Kansas. Keep up the good work, Joe. 
Perfect weather v-'os in order for our annual bus 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 

PHILADELPHIA —Finalinng the PhiUy CIuVs mid-October air trip to Chicago and South Bend for the N.D.-M^.U. game are (from left) Club Director Charles A. Conley, President Barton B. Johnson, and T^VA rep Ronnie Boyle. 
trip to sec the Notre Dame-Purdue football game. The committee of \L\RSR\LL PRUNTT, '50, GEORGE K.AVANAUGH, '31, FRANCIS COLE­MAN, '46, and C. J. KOZAK, '30, did their best to make the trip a pleasant one. All indications were that everyone had a good time. We hated to see the Irish lose and hoped they'd return to their winning ivays. 
FRANCIS COLEM.AN attended his class reunion in June and told of seeing many of his old friends. He was vcr>- complimentary of all those connected with the reunion weekend — a first-class job all the way. 
BOB BLAKE, a 1961 graduate of St. Peters High School, has entered the University. 
Our September meeting was held at HERB FRYE's, '39, cottage on Walton Lake.and everyone including the wives enjoyed the cookout that was held in conjunction with the business meeting. 
—M. E. PRUNTY, Jr., Scci". 

Miami 
The Annual Picnic at Crandon Park was a success in every way, thanks to chairman GENE KU­BICKL The 1962 version of the Miami Notre Dame Club's .Annual Softball Fiasco as might have been seen by a nonpartisan obser\'er drinking soda pop only, was reported as follows: 
*'BILL McSHANE's dauntless officer and director crew had a smattering of girls and boys, and Bill Wclcli's grab-bag 'sports' included the likes of wives, mothers, and alumni who would associate themselves with each other in a common bond (of 15 or 20 active players) to lick 'them brass-hat bums' . . . The game was staged not on the local diamond which was under water, but adjacent thereto where bases were laid out or rather thrown out to wher­ever the beer cans marking the same stopped! Bat­teries for the O & D team evolved around JIM SMITH' S fire-ball delivery together with the help of (says Welch's grapcjuiccrs) the Ump CHARLIE MAHER, who kept the mist outa his telescopic eye with champagne juice supplied by Millers. . . . 
^'Following the game other sports evolved around the cabana area, swimming, volleyball and bar-bn). Gene Kubickl was chairman of the affair and did a bang-up job of making all the arrangements. Virginia Canane, ED KELLY and EMIL SLOVAK were outstanding in the softball and eating depart­ments . . . JLM WILSON, BILL STREETER at 'five card bridge' .. . The DICK SADOWSKI's and Dorothy Brautigams and BARNEY GOODS all got their bathing suits wet; GEORGE HERO and JOHN THORNTON reported in to bolster the ofiicer roster, along with JACK (ORGAN MAS­TER) a\NANE . . . AYEAYE PROBSTS rung the curtain down on their Key Biscayne when the Metro curfew came and a humdinger time was had by all .. . as was expected!" 
With the baseball season closed and football season under way, BOB PROBST was chairman of the TV Party of September 29 at DAN ROWLAND'S Major Appliances showroom for the nationally televised Notre Dame opener \'s. Oklahoma. We inWted the Miami Oklahoma Club (Billy Vessels et al). 
We had a wonderful dinner meeting at the 
Urmey Hotel September 6, for the members and the new and present students at Notre Dame and their fathers, chairmanncd ably by I. I. PROBST-i We have a ver>' fine group of boys from this area going to the University and are very proud that Notre Dame attracts the calibre of boys that at­tended our banquet, such as Carl Atkins, William Dumcy, Jr., Richard Fleming, Patrick Gleason, Tim Korth, John Lewis, Francis Mackle, Jr., C. J. McLaughlin, Roger Rotolantc, and James Warden as entering freshmen; and Bob Weber, Tom Deal, Tim Kemper, Tom Norman, Lou Jepcway, Jr., and John Ribka as returning sophomores and juniors. The banquet's oldest was FRED JONES* father and the youngest, John Thornton, Jr., (class of 1974) and was supported by such fine voulh as BILL Mc-SHANE, BOB REILLY, GENE KUBICKI, CHARLIE MAHER, GEORGE COURY, PARIS COWART, JERRY HOLLAND, BOB and I. 1.. PROBST, (with the photo of the 1924 National t champs), and JOHN STRICKROOT, GEORGE HERO, FRED JONES, JIM SMITH, ED and BERNIE LYONS, RAY POPP, JACK CAN/VNE, BROTHER KERIC, C.S.C., Principal of Arch­bishop Curley High, Miami, and fathers and spon­sors Clyde Atkins, Bill Dumcy, Bill Fleming, Jesse Gleason, Howard Korth, Frank Mackle, T. E. Norman, Sr., Frank Rotolante, E. F. Schimpclcr and many others. 
A radio party was scheduled for mid-October 
and the Pitt Game at Notre Dame, November 10 
was the prize for the Irish sweepstakes. 
The Annual Communion Breakfast was planned for 
December 2 or December 9 — Sundays of course. 
—JOHN W. THORNTON, Sec>-.­

Milwaukee 
OPEN LETTER TO THE NOTRE DAME CLUB 
OF MILWAUKEE 

^fany, many thanks to President BOB GROG^VN, 
'37, and the members of the Notre Dame Club of 
Milwaukee for their hospitality at the most success­
ful Smoker on October 10. With the Old Heidel­
berg as the setting. I really enjoyed \-Isiting with 
everyone after an absence of almost four years. 
The wonderful Milwaukee-N.D. spirit was most 
edifying and the program featuring N.D. Freshman 
Coach HUGH DEVORE and the I9G1 Football 
High Lights was real great. After seeing the thril­
ling High Lights and listening to Hughie's com­
ments, I believe I heard former Pcorians WALT 
BARBU and RICK GRIMLER lauding "last sea-| 
son's 15 and 0 record." " 
Fortunately, there were older and calmer heads present in the persons of FR:\NK E.\TON and CHARLIE O'NEIL who continue to labor on be­half of the Sprinkman Corp. and the St. Mncent DePaul Society respectively. President Grogan huddled with BROTHER THEODORE, C.S.C., Director of St. Charics Boys Home, and FATHER COHANE, C.S.C., Chaplain of the Home regard­ing plans for the always mar\-cIous .Annual Com­munion Breakfast. CHUCK and JLM O'BRIEN arc still quite concerned over Jim's continuing bachelor­hood. Discussing kids and Chain Belt sanitation equipment over a sogg>- slip stick were BILL^ WOODWARD and former Club prcx>- WALT^ SCHNEIDER. Apparently BILL DOUCETTE continues to hold the Club record for fatherhood. TOM MULCAHEY has obviously prospered during his initial three years of marriage, and reports two healthy offspring to date. JIM JUST was ready and willing to go a-full 60 minutes. 
Due to the brevity requirements imposed by President Grogan, I didn't get a chance to talk with a great many of the other good N.D. men present.^ Maybe next trip to Milwaukee on business will coincide with another successful Club event. Thanks to all for a really enjoyable evening. 
—JOHN MANION (Peoria) 

Mohawk Valley 
The Notre Dame Club of the Mohawk Valley held its fall meeting on October 3, 1962, Elections-were held at this meeting resulting In the following officers: DAN CALLAN elected president, DICK TROSSETT re-elected vice-president in charge of student affairs, LEE OSTER elected secretary, and DR. ROBERT BRENNAN elected treasurer. 
Changes were also made in our five-member Executive Advisory Board. ED SWEENEY, TONY GIRRUZZI and DR. DONALD GAVAGAN vvere reappointed to the Board. The newly appointed members of the Advisory* Board are KEN MURPHY and FRANK ROONEY. 
Plans were discussed at the meeting for the forth^ coming Communion Breakfast to be held on D^ B ccmbcr 2, 1962. At this writing a chairman for the versity. I enclose a picture taken at the banquet of 2529 N.W. 51 St., Oklahoma City, is our president. Breakfast has not yet been named. Dr. Burke and myself for whatever disposition you New members are most welcome. 
) As an added Incentive to improve attendance at care to make of it. —J. M. DASCHBACH, JR., Secy. Club meetings, the next meeting was scheduled for On September 29, the club met at FRED RA-November 14, 1962, in connection with a buffet HAIM's house to watch the Notre Dame-Oklahoma 
Peoria 

supper. game on television. Among those in attendance 
—LEE OSTER, '56, Secy. beside Fred and ra>-self were TED TAVO.MEY, On Friday, September 28, the N.D. Club of DICK BRODEUR, AL KESSING. DR. ED Peorta held their annual Fish Fry Stag at Keen-SULLIVAN, FRITZ BAUMER, JOHN TUERK, land Park. This event spearheaded by President 
New Mexico 
The latest event of the Club was the annual telecast party on September 29 at the home ol Club President DICK EVERROAD. Approxi­mately thirty alumni and wives attended this success­ful event and watched the team pull an upset victory over Oklahoma. 
The next scheduled event of the club will be the annual Communion Sunday and Breakfast. The ' exact date has not been set at this writing, but it 
will be held sometime in early December. 
—DENNIS L. MANGAN, Scc>-. 
New York 
The Annual Picnic for the orphan boys of St. Mary's Home in Syosset was a rewarding experience for the numerous Club members who assisted. 
The Freshman Smoker, chaired by GORDON FORESTER, filled the Jade Room of the Waldorf Astoria to capacity. HARVEY FOSTER, then F.B.I, chief of the New York area, was guest speaker and Robert Mulshine, president of the Campus Met Club, gave a vcr>' inspiring and in-
I formative talk on the problems a freshman might expect to encounter in his first semester. 
CASS VANCE, vice-president of the City Di­vision, assisted by TON! BRADLEY, arranged a most enjovable Football Kick-oft meeting at the Waldorf on September 20. ANGELO BERTELLI, RALPH GUGLIEMI and BOB BILL enlivened the evening with plenty of humor and gridiron anecdotes. 
Thanks to the efforts of President ED FITZ­PATRICK and his committee, BILL CUDDY and AL LES.MEZ, the facilities of the Waldorf f\storia have been secured for all Club functions for the next two years. 
—GEORGE P. KRUG, '35, Secy. 
North Florida 
' This is a somewhat belated letter advising the Association of recent events in our club. At the Universal N.D. Night Banquet held last .April, I was elected president of the club for the next two years and TED TWOMEY was elected vice-president. We do not have an active secretary at the moment. Incidentally, DR. WILLIAM M. BURKE gave what we all considered a very* enjoyable talk at the banquet. He is certainly a credit to the Uni­BOB ANDREW and GERRY JOHNSON. 
On ^{onday, October 15, the club scheduled its next meeting in the projection room of the Florida State Theatre, where, through the courtesy of LOU FINSKE, wc were shown a sneak preview of a coming attraction. Following that, we planned to have another TV party to watch the Notre Dame­Na%"j' game on November 3. 
—JOHN F. CORRIGAN, Pres. 
Oklahoma City 
In August, the Oklahoma City Notre Darners held a picnic. BOB DOL/\N was chairman of the function, and, though attendance left a bit to be desired, a fine time was had and there was plenty of food for those attending. The picnic was held August 26 at Twin Hills Golf and Country Club. 
In September, the big function was naturally the Oklahoma-Notrc Dame game held at Norman. The weekend started with a good-sized rally on Friday evening, September 28. BUCKY O'CONNOR handled the rally arrangements and then proceeded to help have the fun of urging Notre Dame on to win. The rally was held at the Plaza Tower Hotel and it seemed as if the entire hotel was filled with Alutns — subway and othcnvise. Tlie evening was pretty fine. On Saturday a bus was prox'ided for those who wished to tra\"el to the game under-the-influencc. The singing and cheering went on and on and on. . . . Rest stops were in­frequent and highly appreciated. The game. . . . What needs to be said? Tlie return bus trip was another series of songs, cheers, and lack of rest stops. The partying continued until the wee hours of Sunday morning. At last the weekend was over and a finer time could not have been had. 
Wc had visitors from all over the Southwest and we hope to sec them all again in the near future. Thank you all for helping to make the Notre Dame crowd heard . . . (When isn't the N.D. faction heard?) 
Particular thanks to BUCKY O'CONNOR for the rally, GENE SCHMIT and BOB DOLAN for bus arrangements and all of the Club members who aided in organizing the entire week end. 
Planned were the December Communion Break­fast under RODNEY J.\NEW.\Y and the Christmas Dance under JOEL HAGG.ARD. Monthly meet­ings arc being held on the third Saturday of each month except when football games interrupt. For any potential members reading this article who wish to contact the Club, JOHN HOBBS of CHUCK PERRIN, TOM ECKLAND, JACK POWERS, AL\URICE CICCARELLI, JOHN MANION, BILL CLARK, BOB MAHONEY, PAUL SCmVEICKERT, BOB .\L%NN1NG, BOB TAY­LOR, TOM CONNOR and LOU ZUMBAHLEN, caused a great deal of excitement and we had a good club turnout. A special thanks to TOM ZOSKY for his help in supplying and preparing the ocean perch. 
^Vc'vc finally got the women on our side. The Notre Dame ladies have formed a Ladies Auxiliary. Wc arc confident it will be a great boon to the Notre Dame Club of Peoria. They have a regular monthly function. We are proud to have them as part of the Club. We know they will do a great deal towards furthering the cause of Notre Dame in this area. 
Congratulations to LOUIS AMBERG, JR. Louie is the proud father of a new baby boy as of October 8, 1962. 
Our deepest sympathy to Mr. and Mrs. DAVE AMBERG on the death of her father. 
Wc %vould like to welcome newcomers JERRY GROOM, '51; JLM WHELAN, '54; BRUCE FIDDES, '56; PAUL MARTERSTECK, '34; and TED MANIATIS, '61, to Peoria and to our Notre Dame Club. 
Plans were made for our annual Communion Breakfast to be held sometime in December with JOHN SLEVIN as chairman of this event. Ar­rangements arc also being made to have a pre-Lentcn Mardi Gras dance. Tentative plans call for a February 23 date at the Willow Knolls Country-Club. JIM .McCOMB and GERRY a\SHMAN are co-chairmen of this event. 
—JIM -McCO.MB, '54, Secy. 
Philadelphia 
Big Philly event ot the fall was the first class plane trip to the Michigan State game on campus, including a two-night stay at the Shcraton-Chlcago, a Friday night rally, bus transportation to the game and back, tickets, and a plane ride back on Sunday afternoon. An Oklahoma game TV luncheon had to be cancelled earlier in the season. The Club had wonderful attendance at the Navy game in spile of the bitter weather. 

JACK HENRY was in charge of a fund-raising drive with tickets for the M.S.U. trip and the Na\y game as prizes, GERRY VOIT was in charge of the programs for the regular monthly meetings. 
ALBANY—Members of the N.D. Club of the Capital District, now resurgent as the Albany, N. Y., Club, had quite a gathering for 
Universal Notre Dame Night last spring, to judge by thb delayed photo. Here they marshal most of their guests' attenticMi to the ^ camera. Special guests William F. Murphy of New York and Mr. and Mrs. James £. Armstrong of Notre Dame can be glimpsed far V left, second table. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 2962 21 
and N.D. Associates continues as a ver>' lucrative investment club. Universal X.D. Communion Sunday was ob­ser\-cd in Philadelphia on De c 9. 
Pittsburgh 
The last two weeks of August were busy ones for the Pittsburgh Club. On August 20 the Summer Picnic and Swimming Party was held at the Com­munity Swimming Club. LEE TADDONIO was the chairman and did an excellent job. He was assisted by BILL MOR.AN of Tulsa, who was working for Gulf Research last summer. With the temperature and humidity both at 93, the members and their families really enjoyed the refreshing water and picnic. 
One week later the annual golf outing was held under the capable chairmanship of SMOKEV COYNE at the Butler Country- Club. JLM HUTCHISON gave a valuable assist in taking care of the arrangements at his club. 
Sixty-five golfers did considerable damage to the course but this was nothing compared to what they did to the steak dinners that followed. JACK SHEEDY was the winner with a low gross of 76 followed dosclv bv home-pro JLM HUTCHISON* and PAUL HUDAK. PINKY MARTIN also toured the course. 
After dinner, HARRY STUHLDREHER gave some interesting comments on the prospects for the coming year and what may be in store with the jet conference. All in all, it was a great success. 
Then on August 30 the second Annual Freshman Orientation Night was held. .All of the incoming freshmen and their fathers were invited and really enjoved themselves. The Notre Dame Story was shown, and BERNIE POWERS gave an excellent talk to the guests. Our cliaplain, FATHER TOM KIRBY, abo spoke briefly and then questions were answered by the student officers of the Club. All went away very enthusiastic and many fine com­pliments were heard for Chairman ED MEELL and his work. 
MIKE CATANZARO, '58, and RICH JACOB, '57, graduated from the University of Baltimore Law School in June and recently received the good news that they had passed the Maryland Bar Exam. HUGH BOYLE, Jr., '55, had to resign as Club secretary. Having received his Xfaster's Degree from the University of Pittsburgh in August, he took a position as guidance counselor at Benjamin Franklin Jr. High School in Nor^valk, Conn. VINCE BURKE was elected to the Assembly of the .Amer­ican Bar Association at the recent Convention in San Francisco. E.MMET GRIFFIN and LARRY SMITH have formed a new company, the Griflin-Smith Co., and have offices at 105 Century* Build­ing. It proWdes specialized business services to other concerns. GEORGE H. KINGSLEY, JR., was recently made a partner in the firm of Singer, Deane, and Scribncr. 
FATHER TOM O'DONNELL was a guest at our weekly luncheon at the Variety Club on Thursday, Oct. 11. We certainly enjoyed his company. He, as arc all the good Fathers from Notre Dame, ts always welcome. 
The annual Christmas Dance plans arc beginning to take shape. FRANK CON'TE, '56, and BILL MEYER, '54, are the co-chairmen. It will be held on Friday, December 28, at the Pittsburgh Field Club. Another successful Yuletide gathering is expected. 
—MICHAEL J. BOYLE, '57, Secy. 

Rhode Island & S.E. Mass. 
The Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Mass. held its annual Going Away Party for new freshmen on September 12, 1962. Fifty-three people took part in the cocktail hour and buffet dinner at The Old Grist Mill in Scekonk, Mass. We were especially happy to see several of the present Notre Dame students from this area and their dates, at the party. Honored guests for the evening were Paul £dv\'ard Pezza, '66, and his parents, from Cranston, R.I. 
The alumni and students heard words of welcome from President PHIL TOOLE, '52, and JOHN 
MCLAUGHLIN, '34. chairman DICK DEL­
MONTE, '54, introduced two alumni from this area who were attending an alumni function to­gether for the first time since the>- graduated from Notre Dame—1st Lt. BOB McHALE, '58, and TOM McHALE, '59, and their wives made it a real family affair^ by bringing their sister and their parents, Mr. & Mrs. Frank McHalc of Pawtucket, R.I. 
Mr. & Mrs. J. LEONARD TOBIN, '38, formerly of Lcwiston, Maine, and now of Barring'ton, R.I., made our Going Away Party their first get­

22 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 19'62 
FORT LAUDERDALE — Annual group photograph of Lauderdale Clubbers was taken last August at the Go\*emor*s Club Hotel on the occasion of a special Football PreWew Meeting, at which the honored guests were special member Walter Budka of Pompano Beach, Fla., and his son Frank, '64 (third row, right), defensive ace of the *62 Irish. 
together with us since becoming residents of R.L 
Lcn is the former President of the Maine Club. 
ANDY McMAHON, '35, who is chairman of our 
Alumni Club Scholarship Fund Drawing this year, 
spoke on the progress of the drive to date. Andy 
announced that the Na\y Game tickets, hotel 
reservations, and railroad transportation that make 
up First Prize would be awarded about October 
15, 1962. 
—RICHARD F. DELMONTE, Secy. 

Rockford 
Wc had the **\Vcanng of the Greens," our annual golf outing, on August 9. At this affair CHARLES LUECKE, *51, of Frecporl, III., was selected as Xotre Dame Man of the Year. The award was presented to him by BILL FISCHER, '49, among the guest celebrities along with JOHNNY LUJACK and GEORGE CONNOR, both '48. JIM DUNN was chairman of the outing. 
—AL CARROLL, '22, Prcs. 

Rochester 
There was Scholarship Fund fun at the Notre Dame Club of Rochester's BufTet Dinner & Draw­ing on October 28, 1962, at the Wishing Well Restaurant. 
Guests were invited to the repast under the chairmanship of DAVE MILLER and PETER KRESS. 
Rome 
It is the eve of the Ecumenical Council at this writing. .Among the 2,500 bishops just arrived are eight of our own Holy Cross Bishops: Archbishop LAWRENCE GRANER and his Auxiliary Bishop THEOTONIUS GANGULY of Dacca, East Paki­stan; Bishop RAY.MOND La ROSE, also of East Pakistan; Bishop VINCENT McCAULEY of Uganda; Bishop ALBERT COUSINEAU and his .•\u.\iliar>- Bishop M.AURICE CHOQUETS of Cap Haitien, Haiti; Bishop ALFRED MENDEZ of Puerto Rico, and Bishop MARK McGRATH, Auxiliary of Panama. Our N.D. Hospitality Center has gone adventurous and is extending written invitations to the 250 bishops of the U.S. to make use of our facilities. And we proudly point out that one American bishop, an N.D. man. Bishop JOHN E. TAYLOR, O.M.I., M.A. '35, has just been consecrated Ordinary of all Sweden. 
TH.ANKS: to GORDON DI RENZO, '57, M.A., '58, — again — for a second shipment of N.D. 
Victory- March highball glasses; and to '62crs RON IGNELSI and GIL CARPE-NTER, volun­teers here this summer, for another shipment of same coveted item. 
NEW ME.MBER: JI.M DOUGLASS, M.A. in The­ology '62, here on a Danforth fellowship to study for a doctorate in theology at the Gregorian Uni­versity. Jim is neither cleric nor bachelor. He arrived sporting a valiant wife, Sally, and two "assistant researchers," Mark, 2, and Peter, 6 | months. 
ECUMENICAL MEMBER: HUGH T. MUR­PHY, '59, is assistant to Monsignor James Tucek, Chief of English Section of the Council Press office. 
•N.D. SEMINARIAN: Last year's N.D. man at the Beda Seminary in Rome, REV. JOHN AN'TON, '38, now* ordained and a curate at Sacred Heart Church in Lombard, III., is now replaced by VINCE GIESE, .M.S., Ed. *50, of Fides Publica­tions. Ad Multos Annos to Vince. 
OUR GUESTS: More than a dozen universities and colleges arc represented on our summer guest list. This is reflected on the walls of our "campus den" where the walls arc filling up with pennants 4 from as many schools, sent by these guests to memorialize their visit: Flanking our major N.D. banner and assorted pennants are pennants sent from Michigan, Ohio State, Brandcis, Dayton, and Fordham, w*ith more en route. 
THE ROSTER: FR. HESBURGH and FRANK FOLSOM; FR. KENNA, Provincial; FR. -McGAR-RAGHER, FR. GARTLAND, PROF. TOM STRFTCH, PROF. ED FISCHER; FRS. KEN­NEDY, McMAHON, CROSTON, headed for the missions. 
VINCE HATT, '62; PETE GUZY, '62; JIM VAUGHEY, '59; MIKE SWORDS, '62; DR. J.\MES ETHINGTON, '30; MARILIN McPHER-ON, SMC '63; KATHLEEN O'BOYLE, SMC '62; MARTY STEPHAN, SMC '62; BOB MARTIN '63. Sisters of DICK HENDRICKS, '61, and PHIL O'CONNELL WHrrE, '56; BARBARA HECKET­HORN, SMC '57; ROSEMARY SEMANICK, ^ SMC '55; HANK MITTELHOUSER, '62; FR. .MICHAEL GAVIN, C.S.C; DAVID and CHRIS­TINA RYAN, son and daughter of DR. ALVAX RYAN, head of N.D. English Dept.; JOHN PALEN, '61, and sUter; TO.M STUDCA, '34; wife of PROF. JOHN H. SHEEHAN; BRO. LAWRENCE MIL­LER, C.S.C; GARY PASQUINELLI and LARRY STEFANI, '65; BRO. ALFONSO COMEAU, C.S.C.; SR. SCHOLASTICA LOGAN, O.S.B., M.A., '53; SR. FRANCES DECHANTEL, SL. Ph. 
D. '42; ROBEL HEIK, '49; JERO.ME TER HAAR, 
JR., '50. • • g Daughter of HUGH WALL, '36; and of JUDGE " 
\VM. JONES, '28. (Barbara b studying in Rome); SR. DANIEL FRANCES, summer '31; father ol 
A D. PATRICK O'DANIEL, '59; and father-in-law of ROBERT MILES, '60; JACK McNEILL, '62; DR. O'DONNELL, '17; DAVID FLANAGAN, '60; JAMES OLSEN, '62; MICHAEL SOPHY, '37; MICHAEL J. BRIENZA, '60, and honeymooning wife ISABELLE POGUE, S.MC '63. 
JOHN HARLIN, '63; DOLORES WARTHA and BEVERLY BECK, SMC '61; LT. CL.AUDE CEC­CAN, '61; PHILIP YA>VMAN, '62; JOHN J. FAR­RELL, '53; GEORGE URITIS, '37; ED MOSKA, '49; Fraler James, brother of HERB SAMPSON, '50; DON MCNEILL, C.S.C, '38 (son of Don McNeill of Breakfast Club fame); OLIE WIL­LIAMS, '61, of U.S. Navy; JE^Wf KENNEDY STANHOPE, SMC '30; SIR CHRISTOPHER HOLLIS, e.i-N.D. Prof.; NORB and Mrs. SCHENKEL, '34; wife of EDWARD BARRETT, 
• '29 and Law "33, and mother of WILLIAM BAR­RETT, '39. We invite you to tell your relatives, friends and neiglibors that *'When In Rome" they are warmlv welcome to the NOTRE DAME HOSPITALITY CENTER. LARGO BRANCACCIO 82, TEL: 730002 
—VINCE McALOON, '31, Secy. 

Salina 
The Salina Club has a new president^ who is JOHN BROU'NE, Clay Center, Kansas. NORB SKELLY is still sccretar>'f and I still remain as treasurer. 
I think I reported, in an earlier issue that the 
• Salina Notre Dame Club lost a ver>* fine member in LARRY WENTZ, who separated from ser%-ice at Schilling Air Force Base, here in Salina, and re­turned to Philadelphia September 16. However, we gained a member when RICHARD BASGALL, of the Class of '52, became a member of the faculty at Marymount College, here in Salina. 
—ALBERT J. SCHWARTZ, Trcas. 

St. Louis 
Tlic St. Louis Club had a sellout for its annual football trip. This year we attended the Michigan State game on Oct. 20. We stayed in Chicago Friday night at the Sherman Hotel, had chartered bus service to the stadium and back and returned 
. to St. Louis Sunday afternoon. Those who at-
r tended the trip had a vcr>* enjoyable weekend. Con­grats to DON R^VTCHFORD, trip chairman, for planning sucli a line week end. 
The Xotrc Dame Soccer Team appeared in St. Louis on Sunday, October 14, against the Washing­ton University squad. It is hoped that this will become a yearly event. 
Plans for our Annual Communion Breakfast were set for Sunday, December 9. BOB MciVULIFFE was our chairman. 
The Christmas Dance will be held at the Khorassan Room of the Chase Hotel on Friday evening December 28. Annually this is one of our finest affairs, and we again look forward to a gala evening. MATT WEIS and MARK MALEY arc 
f co-chairmen. 
The St. Louis Club is in the process of pre­paring a new roster. Any alunuius living in our area who has not been contacted, please send a note to HERM KRIEGSHAUSER, Scc%-., 11700 Serama Dr.. St. Louis 31, Mo. 
JOHN PHELAN is Chairman of the College Night Committee. He and his committee are at­tending various college night programs at many of the high schools in the St. Louis area. 
—HERMAN L. KRIEGSH.\USER- Secv. 

Schenectady 
JOHN F. HURLEY, newly elected president of the N.D. Club of Schenectady, led the wishes and congratulations to eight freshmen from the area bound for Notre Dame at the Club's annual Fresh­man Send-off reception and dinner at the Edison 
y Club in September. The freshmen and their fathers were guests at the dinner among 26 area students returning to the Univcrsitv this past fall. 
ROBERT B. PIORKOWSKI of Glenvillc was chairman of the N.D.-Na\y Sports Day held Nov. 
3. Members watched the Irish triumph over the Midshipmen and discussed community activities for the coming year. 
Soutti Central Wisconsin 
^ Our Club is still recovering from an e.\citing foot-Vball game (Wbconsin versus Notre Dame) and a 
6ne party that wc sponsored for all alumni and 
their friends after the game. 
Our officers, JOHN ROx\CH, '27, president; 
BERNARD MIXTACKI, '50, vice-president; 
MAURICE LEAHY, '39, treasurer, and myself 
thank those who came from far and near to make 
our party a success. If others met as many class­
mates as I did, all had a wonderful time. 
—THOMAS M. HINKES, '51, Sec>-. 

Spokane 
The fourth annual closed Retreat for members 
of the Notre Dame Club of Spokane was conducted 
the weekend of September 21 at Immaculate Heart 
Retreat House. REV. EUGENE MULLIGAN of 
the Monfort Fathers was, appropriately enough, the 
retreat master, and all in attendance were grateful 
for the opportunity of being guided by him. 
FRxVNK H.AGENBARTH, '27, was in change of 
arrangements. 
Tlie annual Football TV Party was enjoyed on September 29 in the rec room of the home of Club President GARY MYERS, '59. Gary's wife Jane arranged a tasty snack table while Gar>' took care of the liquid refreshments. The following mem­bers and their wives thrilled to the victory over Oklahoma: JIM LYNCH, '40; DR. BOB MAHER, '35; DR. JI.M ROTCHFORD, '49; BERNIE SM\TH, '55; RALPH SCHULLER, '57; JERRY BERGU.M, '62; ED MURPHY, '56; and JOE WALSH, '14. 
The Faculty of Gonzaga University, in Spokane, this term includes three Notre Dame men, viz: RAYMOND W. .MURPHY, '59; JERRY BERGU-M, '62; and EDWARD MURPHY, '56. 
Omitted from the account of the Club's observ­ance of Universal Notre Dame Night was mention of the Club awarding its Man of the Year Scroll to JOSEPH M. WALSH, '14, the Secretary-Treas­urer of the Club since coming to Spokane in 1957. FRxVNK J. HAGENBARTH, '27, made the pres­entation. 
—JOE WALSH, '14, Sccy-Trcas. 

Terre Haute 
Previous accounts of Terre Hautc's U.N.D. Night dinner failed to mention that J.AMES D. COONEY, '59, one of the new assistant directors of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the featured speaker of the evening and that Man of the Year MYRON J. BUSBY is one of the few non-alumni holding that distinction. Parent of a Notre Dame junior, Mr. Busby owns a local real estate and insurance agcnc>', is serving a second term on the common council and has served as president of that body. He is president of the board of Indiana State College, his own alma mater. During World War II he ser%'cd as an .-Vir Force major and has since served on the Vigo County Selective Ser\'ice and .Aviation Commission boards. He was building fund co-chairman for his own St. Patrick's Church and is currently vice-president of the Terre Haute Board of Realtors. 
Toledo 
BUD MALONE gave the particulars about at­tending Notre Dame to high school students at 
College Night October 23 and 24. Twelve frcshmea 
from the Toledo area are enrolled at N.D. thii 
year. We extend to them our welcome to the NJ>. 
family. 
CHUCK COOMBS is keeping our roster current 
and TERRY O'LOUGHUN will take care of 
Masses for deceased Club members or their immedi­
ate families. 
DEAN RICHARDS, '57, was the featured speaker 
for the November meeting at Red Smith's Buckeye 
Brewery. Dean has a growing and far-reaching 
reputation for his informative talks on Communism. 
Keep up the good work. Dean. 
December 9 we held our annual Communiim 
Breakfast and coming up December 28 Is our 
Christmas Dance. JOHN CELUSTA and TOU 
^VELLY are the co-chairmen. The dance is at 
Inverness Country Club beginning about nine and 
tickets will be available at the door, so if you're 
in the area please join us. 
When PAT MCCARTY , former N.D. All-Amer­ican and coach at Toledo Catholic Central, passed away suddenly. TO.M NfcHUGH initiated a memorial football game between his Central team and Cleveland Benedictine with the proceeds going to Pat's large and still young family. JOHN HURLEY and TO.M WELLY handled program and ticket sales for the N.D. Alumni and assisted Tom with other details. These men and the supporting alumni should be commended for their efforts and tribute to an exemplary Notre Dame Man. 
—DICK MERKEL, Secy. 

Tri-Cities 
On July 7 vvc held our annual summer picnic with a good crowd; especially gratifying was the number of potential alumns for the years '75-plus. 
Keeping the date of the 7th in September, we held **Wives Night Out" or "There Will Be No Slag This Year, Boys!" A good crowd was on hand for a verx* enjoyable evening. 
Final plans are incomplete at this time but I am asked to report the committee is working hard to make the Christmas Dance one of the finest events ever held by the club. 
—JOHN S. HERR, Secy.-Trcas. 

Washington, D.C. 
The Washington Club's annual fall football meet­ing was held October 24 in the Cabinet Room ol the Sheraton-Carl ton Hotel. Speakers on Redskin and Irish football prospects were DAVE SLATTERY and GEORGE IZO of the Washington pro football organization. A large delegation took the Penn­sylvania Railroad for the Club Trip to Philadelphia for the Na\-y game on November 3. 
The Student-.Alumni Christmas Dance is scheduled for December 27. 
Western Washington 
On December 6, the Seattle area alumni culmi­nated their drive for the Scholarship Fund with a drawing for a trip to the Rose Bowl or a color TV set. OLIVER R. FLOR was chairman uf the drive. 
BENGAL — Silver Jubilee o£ Rev. Francis J. Burton, C.S.C., was celebrated at Notre Dame College, Dacca, East Pakistan, by (l.-r.) Fr. Burton, Brother George Noakes (formerly with the British service and Province Development), and Fr. John VandenBossche of the college's faculty, three of dozens of Holy Cross priests and brothers keeping up the Bengalesc tradition in the schools and parishes of Pakistan. (See Club reports.) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 23 
FREDERICK J. SLACKFORD, '18, of San­dusisj-, Ohio, died July 12, 1962. He is survived by a sbter. ^ 
RICHARD H. McCOR.MICK, '21, of Chicago,^ III., died May 22, 1962, according to information received in the Alumni OfSce. No details. 
ED.MUND J. MEAGHER, '21, of Rock Island, 
Classes 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Maryannc Elizabeth Campana and BREN­DAN J. BRODERICK, '56. Miss Mar>- Catherine Beck and LT. THOMAS a BARTHOLOMEW, '38. Miss Barbara DcSantis and THOMAS B.ATES, '60. Miss Barbara Smith and EDWARD J. PERRY, JR., '61. Miss Sharon Strametz and LT. BRIAN C. REGAN, '61. Miss Judith Kay Yodcr and JOHN B. RO­SHECK, '62. 
MARRIAGES 

MIS. Venirtic Casucll Weil and EDUIN G. O'CONNOR, '39, Boston, Mass., September 2. Miss Marj- Madelene Stone and WILLLAM G. BROCK, '49, El Paso, Texas, November 22. Miss Kathleen Anne Lobo and JOHN B. MA­GILL, JR., '54, Westfield, N.J., October 6. Mrs. Lorctta Rohr and JA.MES P. CANNY, '57, Cleveland, Ohio, September 19. MUs Maura Mechan and GEORGE F. WINK­LER, III, '37, Garden City, N.Y., November 17. 
Miss Carol Beth McNulty and ROBERT A. LOEFFLER, JR., '58, Notre Dame, Ind., October 13. 
Miss Joy Shalhoob and JOHN E. FISCHER, '59, October 6. -Miss Karen Celeste Wilke and TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, JR., '39, Notre Dame, Ind., August 4. Miss Barbara Joy Shoemaker and MICHAEL V. KURAS, '59, Notre Dame, Ind., September 22. Miss Marl- Josephine Shipp and BRIAN QUINN, '59, Tulsa, Okla., September 15. Miss Sharon Ann Bicbuyck and LT. ROBERT 
J. YOUNG, '59, Notre Dame, Ind., September 1. Miss Isabclle Pogue and .\I1CH.AEL J. BRIENZA, '60, Mount Vernon, N.Y., August 4. Miss Claire Louise Bartlc\- and ROBERT D. FITZSI.MONS, '60, West Harvvidi, Mass., July 28. Miss Susan Jennifer Shaw and DAVID E, FIX­LER, '60, South Bend, Ind., Oct. 27. Miss Marjoric Ann Taglientc and HERBERT R. MOELLER, '60, Spring Vallej-, N.Y., August 11. Miss Modesta LaRuffa and KENTCETH B. MURPHY, '60, New York, N.Y., August 25. Miss Ellen Linda Lyons and LT. MICHAEL P. ESPOSITO, '61, Hackensack, N.J., September 2. Miss Carol Janet Amatelli and JOHN F. JULI­ANO, '61, Newark, N.J., September 22. 
Miss Marilvn Marie Knudsen and D.WID J. MCDONALD, JR., '61, New York, N.Y., August 31. 
Miss Sheila Anne Chandonia and JOSEPH D. BAROODY , '62, Alexandria, Va., August 16. 
Miss Nancy Lauretta Lannoo and MER^\'VN A. KUSNIEREK, '62, Notre Dame, Ind., October 13. Miss Patricia Jean Murphv and DENNIS J. 
SWEENEY, '62, Flossmoor, lil., August 18. Miss Mary Lou Chase and LESLIE J. TRA%'ER, '62, Toledo, Ohio, September 22. 
Miss Linda Rose Kovach and DOUGLAS K. ARMSTRONG, '63, Notre Dame, Ind., October 27. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Airs. AHLLIAM F. TALBOT, '44, a son, William Benedict II, August 13. Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH H. DITTRICH, '47, a son, Daniel Coleman, July 10. Mr. and Mre. CARL F. EIBERGER, '52, a daughter, Eileen Marie, Mav 26. Mr. and Mrs. WILLUM B. BERRY, '53, a son, Thomas James, October 3. Mr. and Mrs. JOHX J. DILENSCHXEIDER, '33, a son, Francas Mathias, September 25. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN* A. HOBBS, '53, a son, Michael Buckley, August 27. Dr. and Mrs. ANTHONY R. GARRUTO, '54, a son, Ra\*mond John, October 18. Mr. and Mrs. ANTHON'Y J. TRIGIAXI, 'M, a son, Michael Anthony II, September 23. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. GERVAIS, '33, a 

son, Edward O'Neill, October 10. 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. PHELAN, '36, a daugh­

ter, October 20. 
-Mr. and Mrs. KE.NNETH P. WINKLER, '56, 

twin boys, John Kenneth and James Paul, October 
21. 
Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. GORDON, '37, a 

son, Edward John, August 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES L. O'NEILL, '57, a 

daughter, Kathleen Marie, September 24. 
Mr. and -Mrs. DAVID W. SAXON, III, '58, a 

son, Da%'id W, IV, September 19. 
Mr. and Mrs. HARRY D. LEINENWEBER, 

'59, a daughter, Jane Dunn, June 25. 
-Mr. and -Mrs. LAWRENCE G. MARTIN, '60, 

a daughter, Maureen Ann, June 4. 
Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE E. VANCE, JR., 

'60, a son, Laurence Michael, August 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. JAMES J. RAY, '61, a daughter, 

•Amy Jancttc, September 24. 
SYMPATHY 

JOHN A. LEMMER, '18, on the death of hb wife, September 12. JOSEPH R. STEWART, '22, on the death of his father, October 8. 
L. THOMAS, '23 and JOHN F. PLOUFF, '38, on the death of their mother, November 4. PATRICK J. FISHER, '35, on the death of his mother, October 10. WILLIAM E. COTTER, '41, on the death of his mother, September 16. ROBERT K. GRIFFIN, '45, on the death of his father. LEONARD B. HART, '48, on the death of his mother, June 19. JOHN G., '51 and JAMES P. McVEIGH, '51, on the death of their father, June 6. JOSEPH C. D'ANTONI, '54, on the death of his wife, October 1. DANIEL, '54 and \MLLIAM MURPHY, '61, on the death of their father, September 28. HERBERT J. HAILE, JR., '55, on the death of his father, August 16. 
JAMES P. MEAGHER, '37, on the death of his father, Edmund J., '21, October 21. 
DEATHS 

STEPHAN B. FLEMING, '93, died in Fort 
AVayne, Ind., according to word leceived in the 
Alumni OfHce. No details. 
FRANCIS H. McKEEVER, '03, '04, died Oc­
tober 10, 1962 in Chicago, III. He is survived by 
his wife, a son and two daughters. 
FRANK H. VOGEL, '06, of Columbus, Ohio, 
died March 20, 1962, according to word received 
from his wife. 
AMBROSE A. O'CONNELL, '07, a past presi­dent of the Notre Dame .Alumni Association, died October 12, 1962 in San Mateo, Calif. He was a fonner judge of the United States Court of Cus­toms and Patent Appeals, and a former Assistant Postmaster General. Sur\'ivors include his wife, a son, two daughters, and two brothers. 
EDWIN J. LISTER, JR., '12, died in Blue Jay, Calif., according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
SIMON T. FARRELL, '14, organizer and first president of the Notre Dame Club of Joliet, III., died there September 19, 1962. A former baseball player with the Chicago \Vhite Sox, Mr. Farrell was employed by the Chicago Sanitary District until his retirement two years ago. He is sur\-ived by his wife, a brother and sister. 
MrrCHELL C. NEWGASS, '14, died in New York City according to word received in the Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
HILTON W. GOODWTN, '15, died in Ridi­mond, Va., according to mail returned to the Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
CARL F. EIGELSBACH, '18, died in 1961 in Chicago, 111., according to word received in the Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
111., died October 21, 1962. Sur\ivors include bis wife and a son. 
REV. ROBERT E. GALLAGHER, '22, of Toledo, Ohio, died August 18, 1962, according to mall returned to tlic Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
JOHN a P. REGAN, '22, of Chicago, Illinois, died September 22, 1962, according to word re­ceived from his sister. 
GEORGE E. CARTIER, '23, died February 23, 1962j in Ludington, Miciiigan, according to infor­mation received in the Alumni Office. His wife sur\'ivcs. ^ 
LINUS C. GLOTZBACH, '23, died August 25, W 
1962, in St. Paul, Minnesota. Before his retire­ment in 1959, Mr. Glotzbach was vice president for personnel and assistant to tlic president of Northwest Orient .Airlines. Sur\ivors include his wife, a son, his father and a brotlier. 
JOHN L. MURPHY, '23, of San Francisco, Calif., died September 19, 1962. Mr. Murphy was the national high-jump champion and record holder in 1919-21 era. He is sur\'ived by his wife, a son and two daughters. 
JOHN K. RUCKELSHAUS, '23, former legal advisor for the Arctidiocese of Indianapolis, died August 31, 1962. A member of the Board of Directors of the Criterion Press, Inc., he also pioneered the establishment of the Great Books mo%-cment in the Indianapolis area and was made A ' a Knight of St. Gregory by Pope John XXIII in 1959. Sur\'ivors include his wife, two sons, a daughter and a brother. 
WILLUM R. MAHER, '24, of Park Ridge, Illinois, died September 3, 1962. Mr. Mahcr was associated with the Hallicrafters Company of Chicago at the time of his death. He is sur\-ivcd by his wife. 
EDWARD K. THODE, '24, vice president, secretary and general counsel at General Mills, Inc., died October 20, 1962 in Minneapolis, Min­nesota. Mr. Thode was an administrative assistant to FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover before entering law practice in Afinncapolis in 1930. He is sur­vived by his wile, a son, and two daughters. 
JOHN \V. KENNY, '27, died in Fort Wayne, Indiana, according to information received in the .Alumni Office. No details. ^ 
JOHN C. MAGIE, '27, of Duluth, .Minnesota, • died August 10, 1962, while working aboard the steamer W. E. Fitzerald on Lake Michigan. While at Notre Dame, Mr. Magie was captain of tlic hockey team and a member of the football team. Sur\'iving are a daughter and a brother. 
JAMES E. HAYES, '28, died in Crawford, New Jersey, according to word received in the Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
SISTER AGNES DE SALES MOLYNEAU, '28, died in Mt. St. Joseph, Ohio, according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. No details. 
EUGENE K. MORIARTY, '28, of Willimantic, Connecticut, died December 15, 1961, His wife survives. ^ 
AVALTER V. GILDEA, '29, died in Fort AVaync, • ' Indiana, according to information received in the Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
WILLUM A. GORMAN, '29, died in Rockville Centre, New York, according to word received in the Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
EARLE D. BARRY, '30, died in Santa Monica, California, according to information received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
JAMES F. DILLEY, '30, died in Ossining, New York, according to word received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
DR. AVILLIAM F. JANC, '30, of Chippcu-a Falls, Wisconsin, died May 27, 1962, according to ^vord received from his wife. 
JOHN B. LAW, '30, captain of the 1929 Notre Dame football team, died October 14, 1962, in Tarrytown, New York. At the time of his death he had been a member of tlic State Commission ^ of Correction and had formerly coached football w at Manhattan College and Sing Sing Prison. Sur­viving are his wife, a daughter and a brother. 
KENNETH J. DURBIN, '31, died in 1949 in South Bend, Indiana, according to information received in the Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
JA.MES J. FLANTGAN, '32, died in Chicago, Illinois, according to information received in the Alumni Ofiice. No details. 
ED.MOND J. O'CONNOR, '32, died in Brooklyn, New York, according to word received in the ^ Alumni Ofiice. No details. w 
An inteUectucd serrice of the UniTenit/ai.Notta Dome {or the constant emichmeht oi the minds 
oi Notre Dame's diveise fconilr -^
thesiiyne TRADITION 
From a Wise^ Witty,, and Widely Known Compiler... 
A BASIC HOME LIBRARY 
for the • COLLEGE GRADUATE' 
Chosen and annotated by Lawrence Clark Powell 
Y
OOH BASIC HOME reference library will be de­tennined by who you are, what you do, and where you live. Lawyer, banker, doctor, writer, 
% realtor, housewife; east, west, north, south: each will need his or her own books of reference. Is there such a thing as an average man or woman college gradu­ate and a library to suit? I think not Individual differences in taste and need are infinite; regional interests are extremely varied. 
So "any choice of 25 basic home reference books is arbitrary. My selections are mostly orthodox, although I have salted in a few ej'ebrow-raisers. 
• Alice in Wonderland and Andersen's Fairy Tales, for example—just to make you ask, "How can he call them reference books?" I'll tell you. Because I've found myself referring to them again and again through the years since boyhood, using them in the aging process as touchstones, measuring sticks, and lodestars. Isn't that a good enough definition of a reference book? 
I have suggested locations for these books—living room, kitchen, study or den, and bedroom. You may prefer to shelve''the Modem Home Medical Adviser 
^ in the rumpus room. Some people read in the bath­room, if not actually in the tub. I don't. But I do keep a few reference books in my c£ir, to read when tied up on the freeway. 
The secret of a good reference library is to have the books always there. Lend not your books. Don't try to compete with the public library. ^The paper­back revolution has brought thousands of good books dov/n to purse level. Architects, particularly of tract-houses, seem to be unaware that people are buying books as never before. Although I own, hundreds of paperbacks, my reference books are all in' hard-bound • copies for the hard wear they get.', , 
All of the 25 reference boote in the following list are in print and can be bought at, or through, your local bookstore. If there isn't a bookstore in your community, you are lacking one'of the hallmarksiof civilization. Church, school, library, park,' bookstore 
— the.essentials for cultural living. 
The basic things in life are of the brain, the stomach, and the heart,, and my .reference books relate to all three. He who lives and reads not is no more alive than he who reads and lives not I re­member what that great public librarian, Joseph L. Wheeler, retired head of the Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore, said when' queried as to why he had thousands of books shelved in every room and on' the stairs of his home: "Books are cheaper than . wallpaper." And who was it who said, "Books! Next to mother's milk the best food."? See item 5. Use your reference books! 
•Copyright 1962 by Editorial ProjecU for Educatioi^ Inc. -•Ml rights reserved. , 
A BASIC HOME REFEBENCE LffiRAsr 
FOR THE COIJ.EGE GBADUATE 
Limng Room 
1: WEBSTKB'S NEW INTKHNAHONAL DicnoNAsr OF THE ENOLISR LANGUAGE. Third edition un­
_ abridged. G. C. Merriam Co. $47.50,-plus $32.50 for the little wheded truck to hold it. 
Along wiQi stove and bed, this is basic household equipmraiL Keep it centrally in the house, with small­er dictionaries in the other rooms. 
2. THE COLUMBU ENCYCLOPEDIA IN ONE VOLTJUE. Second edition ^vlth 1959 supplement Bditei by Bridgetvater and Shenoood. Columbia Uni­versity Press. $35. 
If you haven't shelf and purse for one of the great multivolume mcydopedias, this is the best single-volume woric. When things get strained domestically, gatto the family in front of the fireplace and read aloud from the encyclopedia. It soothes and distracts. 
' 3. A DiCnONAET OF CONTEMPORAEY AMEBICAN 
Us&OE. By Bergen Evans and Cornelia Evam. 
Random House. $5.95. 

A witty gloss on words and phrases,' good and bad, which can be used as a tool by writers and as a conversation piece by readers. 
4. THE READER'S ENCTCLOPEOIA. An Encyclopedia' of World Literature and the Arts. Edited by WiOiam Rose Benet. CroweU. $7.95. 
Ihdudes all manner of things, themes, people, and (daces, oicoimtered in reading, with 19,008 articles on 1,270 pages. Excellent for students' homeworic. 
\ . -• 

5.' FAMIUAK QOOTATIONS. By John Bartlett. Thk­teenth and Centennial Edition. 1955. Little, Brown & Co. $10. 
Who, where, when. 

6. THE tWoiLO ALMANAC AND BOOK OF FACTS. Edited by Bony, Hanam. New Toifc World-Telegram. $2. 
TUs famous annual originated as a newspaper-% office handbook. U you are addicted to quizzes and ­contests, duin this book to you. 
7. DocbuiNTS OF AUBBiCAN WssovT. Edited by Henry Steele Conumger. Appleton-Century-Crpfts. $6.50. 
Here, in full, axe the fundamental sources of 9 American history, from the time of Columbus to the present, which are more read about than read. 
8. HOME BOOK OF VESSB, American and English. ConipOed by Burton Egbert Stevenson. Ninth edition. 2 volumes. Heniy Holt & Co: $25. 
First published in 1912, this massive compilation of familiar and conventional poetiy is arranged in ^ broad subject divisions such as Love and Death. I have an early sing}e-voIume edition, given to me by my mother on my ninth birthday, and it doubles nicdy as a doorstop when it's windy in my study. Companion volume is Stevenson's HOME Book OF MODERN VERSE. $10. Ttie compiler, who died last year in very old age, was librarian of the Chillicothe, m Ohio, Public liibraiy. 
9. RiiND IICNALLT COSMOFOUTAN WORLD ATL.AS. Rand McNally Cb. $14.95. 
"I should like to rise and go wh ^ the golden apples grow," wrote Robert Louis Stevenson in A ChiUPa Garden of Verses. A good atlas is just as poetic abook. If you have, traveled, it will ^ow you wh«e you went; if ymrplan to travel, it will guide0, you. Thete^are many atlases; this one is excellent for its larger dear maps and its w^t h of statistical and other siipplenientary data. ^ / 
Of all the diversions of life, there is none so proper to fill up its emptf spaces as the. reading of useful and entertaining authors. — (Joseph Adduon) 
A Btanc Home B^ermce Library . .. Continued 
'•:l^; 
\ 
Kitchen 

10. THE JOY OF CooKiNq. By Irma Itjombauer and Marion Becfcer. Bobbs-MerriU. $4.95. 
£lip a cohi for this or FAmnr FABMKR. and which­
• ever comesup, you will get one of the two best cook­books according to Za cuisine americaine. This is-­another book to' be chained — to your wife, of course, who is already secured to stove and sink. 
11. THE COOKQUT BOOK. With an introduction to the # techniques of barbecue cooking and entertaining. 
By Helen Evans Brown and Philip S. Brmon: 
Ward mtchie Press. $7.50. 

Imaginative and appetizing recipes for barbecuing meats, fowl, and seafoods, in a voliune that was chosen by the American fostitute of Graphic Arts as one of the year's most beautiful. Licidentally, the Browns agree that the best cooks are of the male 
•se x — outdoor cooks, that is. 
12. LAsoussB GASTKONoaaQUE. THE ESCTCLOPEDIA OF FOOD, WINE, AND COOE3SY. By Prosper Umitagne. Crown Publishers. $20. 
# Thefirst English translation of this huge Fraich classic. The accent is on that country, for there is no doiying the Frendi leadership in the world of food. The articles and illustrations cover everything relating to the subject, including places, plates, partridges, and 
l' 

parsley. ^ ^ 
13. WINE AND SFIBITS. A Complete Buying Guide. • -By Wmiam E. Massee. McGraw-HilL $8.95. 
Includes all countries and thdr drinks,.with advice on how to store and serve. 
14. HoRTDS SECOIO). ACondaeDictionaiyaif Gardiai-' ing, General Horticulture, and Cultivated Huits in North Americk Compiled, by I.. J?.iBatZey and Ethel Zae BaOey, tSaanmah. $13.50. . 
This is a revised and oilarged second edithm of. the classic American work on green growing things. l i you are lucky, you will have a Utdien garden with lettuces, parsleys, herbs (and snails), and Htatrns \riD be your bible. V^ . = ' • 
A BASIC HOME RBisRENCB'LiBKAaY'' 
FOR THE COLLEGE GRADIMIS 
By Lawrence Claric Powell 
ABOUT THE AUTHOR ^ 
Lawrence Clark PonoeU, Dean of the School of Library Service at UCLA, holda the BJL. and JAttJD. degrees from Occidental College and the PhJ). from the Vmversity of Dijon, France. From a bookstore job he went into puilic-Ubrary 
Avork and then joined the UCLA staff in 19S8, serving as chief librarian from 19H to 1961. He has been Lectttrer in EngSah rinee 1954 <^ became Dean of the School of Library Service in 19S0. 
Dean PoioeU is an author and editor, and lAe lorites a monthly tnagaeine coliimh^on Western books and authors. Among sometO books he has written are The Alchemy of Books (1954), A Passion for Books (1959), and Books in 1^. Baggage Y2960^ ^ •'"•.'• 
15. MODEBN MEDICAL ADVISER, fditadi by Morris Fiiih^ l)ein,MJi. Gardai City Books.;'$4.95; " , ' ­
Written under Dr Fishbein's direction by various medical authorities, this is a good boolc to have around Just in case. _ -_ 
^ In science-read, by preference, the newest works: in literature, the oldest. The classic literature is always modern..^ (Biitwer-Lytton) C 
A Basic Home Reference Library . . . Continued 
Study, Den, and Bedroom 
16. AucE m WONDEELAND and THEODGH THE LOOK­DIG GLASS. By Lewis CarroU. Grosset & Dunlap. $2.75. 
The older one grows, the better it reads. TUs edition includes the original illustrations by John Tennid. The author, whose real name was C. L. Dodgson, was a professor of mathematics who lived for 45 years in the same bachelor quEirters at Christ Church, Oxford, none of which accounts for this work of genius. . 
17. FAIRY TALES. By Hans Christian Andersen. Grosset & Dunlap. $2.75. 
Here again it's a coin flip as to whether it be Andersen or Grimm. I flipped, and the great Dane won. This edition has illustrations by Arthur Szyk. 
18. ISLANDIA. By Austin T. Wright. Einehart & Co. $5.95. 
This is a long Utopian novel, written in secret by a law professor and published posthiunously. Through­out the world a body of readers has organized and called themselves Islandians, sans dues or by-laws. This novd is the standard reference work by which they live. 
19. THE PORTABLE EMERSON. Edited by Mark Van Daren. Viking Press. $2.95. 
Though he lived and wrote a hundred years ago, he is more modem than we are, his prose seeded with time bombs, set to go off in succeeding generations. If you are timid, conservative, and a slave of the status quo, don't let this book in your house. 
20. THE PORTABLE THOHEAD. Edited by Carl Bode. Viking Press. $2.95. 
Here is another Yankee radical who whipped prog­ress, conformity, togetherness, and all the other dogmas which bite our heels. This too is a subversive book which should be given to the young and kept from the old. 
21. THE PORTABLE MELVILLE. Edited by Jay Leyda. Viking Press. $2.95. ^ 
Includes the best, of the novels, stories, poems, and lettars of the great marinerfmystic, who won popular fame, and lost it, and won it again ^ posthumously. Melville was born and died in Manhattan, and that island community has yet to erect an appropriate memorial to him. 
22. THE PORTABLE WHITMAN. Edited by Mark Van Doren. Viking Press. $2.95. • 
The good gray Quaker poet's Leaves of Grass stays forever green through the years which wither most things! "Who touches this book, touches a man." 
23. THE PORTABLE MARK TWAIN. Edited by Bernard de Voio. Viking Press. $2.95. ' 
Includes Huckleberry Finn, that revolutionary novel which points to the ultimate reconciliation between ( white and black. 
24. SHAKESPEARE'S COMPLETE WORKS. Edited by W. 
J. Craig. Oxford University Press. $4.50. 
Next to the Bible, and counting out the dictionary, this is the most basic book in English. I have chosen this from among many good editions simply because| I have lived with my copy for 30 years and worn it beautifully smooth. 
25. THB HOLT BIBLE.* King James Version. Oxford University Press. $9.75. . 
Choice of a Bible is a personal matter. You may prefer a modem translation. I don't Give me the organ music of the King James. This edition is leather bound, a handy size, with concordance and index. Keep it by your bed, to be read first thing in the morning and the last thing at night # 
* Dean Powell'i selectioiu are for beauty of language and literary interest, in which the King James version generally excels. Catholic\graduate3 are expected to consult translations from the Latin Vulgate — either the original Douay-Rheims version or one ci several excellent modem translations (Knox, Confraternity, Kleist-Lilly, etc) Ed., Notre Dame ALUUNUS^ 
EMILY LEMMER, *33, wife of JOHN A. ^ LEM.\fER, *18, died September 12, 1962, in V Escanaba. Michigan. Also surviving is a. sister. 
FRANCIS D. SLOUGH, '33, died in Cleveland, Ohio, according to information received in the Alumni Onicc. No details. 
WILLIAM P. BECK, '35, died in Fort Wayne, Indiana, according to word received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
PATRICK F. McCARTY, '38, of Toledo, Ohio, died August 11, 1962. His wife sur\-ivcs. 
GEORGE E. GEYER, '39, of lsh*p, Long Island, New York, died October 13, 1962. He is sur\ivcd by his wife. 
SISTER MARIE KATHLEEN GILLIGAN, S.S.J., *41, of Nazareth College, Nazareth, Michi­gan, died September 22, 1962, according to infor­mation received in the Alumni OfHcc. No details. 
m JOHN M. WISHING, JR., '42. of South Bend, Ind., died August 28, 1962, according to mail returned to the Alumni Ofiicc. Two children survive. 
ROBERT G. A2AR, '49, of Enclno, California, died in September, 1962, according to word rc­cei\*ed in the Alumni OfHce. No details. 
BENEDICT J. METCALFE, '49, of San Fran­cisco, California, died Januar>' 23, 1962, according to word received in the Alumni Office. He is sur\'ived by an aunt and uncle. 
NEAL J. MURPHY, '52, died in Los Angeles, California, according to information received in the Alumni Office. No details. 
• 50-Year Club 
May all the Scmlcentcnarians who have passed to their reward in recent months be included in the sentiments of Msgr. Charles Boldrick's free verse cuIog>- for COL. FRrVNK FEHR last August at LouisWllc's Holy Trinity Church. A brief section (translated to prose): "Unless you become as little children you shall not enter the Kingdom of Heaven. .-Vnd, what arc the marks of a cliild, but of obedience, docility and humility? I believe that such are the words that can be said of Colonel Fehr. He was docile, he was meek, and he was humble. . . . And so we may well bcHcvc that the promise fuffilled in him." Executive Vice-Presi­dent FATHER EDMUND JOYCE represented the University at an impressive Requiem Mass. 
«
In the San Francisco Examiner, a recent "Ma­"mturc Living" profile reprised "A Rewarding Career" ^of "Spectacularly Successful EUSTACE CULLINAN ('95) . . . more than seven decades of public 5L-r\*icc." Selections: "Eustace Cutlinan was 19 in 1895 when he came back to his home town from Notre Dame with an A.B. degree, took a job as reporter on the old San Francisco Bulletin, under the crusading editor Fremont Older, enrolled in Hastings College of Law, won his law degree . . . and was admitted to the California Bar. . . . The University of San Francisco gave him a master's degree in 1907 . . . graduated long since from reporter to top editorial writer. . . . After he opened a law office .. . he kept on writing pungent editorials. . . . He is 86 now, with a ?ectacularly successful career in the law, a long nd well-documented influence in the history* of the histor>- of the state and city . . . and still writes a clever column of reminiscence in the Re­corder. . . . He is active senior partner in the law firm of Cushing, CuUinan, Hancock and Rothert . . . pursues his scholarly hobby in the study of medieval calligraphy, and reads volumin­ously, with an emphasis on history." TIic story details Mr. CulUnan's Irish background, his bus>* legal and civic career, and his influence on the careers of administrators, mayors and governors (he never accepted a salaried job from any of them). His wife Katherine died in 1960. and two sons are also deceased, JUDGE EUSTACE CUL­LINAN, JR., '25, and MATTHEW CULLIN.AN, '31, an engineer. Sur\iving are sons Vincent (his father's law partner) and Gerald (a publicist in Washington, D.C.) and four grandchildren. 
After 28 years as chaplain of St. Mar>-'s College 
tnd professor of philosophy and religion, REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C.S.C., '99, has re­tired. Ordained in 1903, Father Schumacher took a doctorate at Catholic U. in 1905 and returned to Notre Dame as professor of philosophy, 1904-07 and 1933-34; dean of studies, 1907-19 and 1926-27; and head of the philosophy department, 1927-28. In inter\ening years he was president (1919-25) and dean of liberal arts (1925-26) at St. Edward's Uni­versity and president (1928-33) of the College of St. Tliomas. He went to St. Mar>-'s in 1934. /&ithcr Schumacher's many contributions to the "liurch include his college standardization studies 
MARTIN EMMET WALTER, *14 

From Illinois, a Proper Honstonian 
Illinois and Texas are said to have been the two pivotal states in the last presidential election. Emmet Walter is a native of Illi­nois and has had a colorful career in Texas, where he was editor and continues as vice-president of Texas' largest newspaper. The Houston Chronicle. He has long been a leader in the affairs of Houston, among the fastest growing cities in the U.S. Graduated in law in *16, he received his A.B. and A.M. in '14 and '15, respectively. 
Born in Mt. Carmel, 111., December 10, 1892. he was admitted to the Illinois Bar in Februar>', 1917, and had practiced law a few months in Illinois when the U.S. entered World War I. He entered the first Officers' Training Camp at Fort Sheridan and was commissioned a 2nd lieutenant. He was assigned to the 88th Division at Camp Grant, 111., but soon transferred to the 36th Division in Texas and ser\'ed with that organization for two years, one in Te.\as and one in France. He was captured by the Germans but escaped after six weeks in prison camps and was awarded the Croi.\ de Guerre for heroism in action. 
for the National Catholic Educational Association, chaplaincy of the Indiana and Texas Knights of Columbus and Catholic Daughters of America, and duty far and wide as a popular speaker. A sermon of Ijis was included in the book "Speech Models" (1943), and in addition to many articles he wrote a book, "The Knowableness of God — Its Relation to the Theory of Knowledge in St. Thomas" (1907) and translated "St. Augustine Against Julian** (1957) for the Fathers of the Church series. The Notre Dame Family rejoiced with Father Schu­macher on the golden jubilee or ordination in 
1953, and with generations of St. Mary*s alumnae they noiv extend their congratulations and prayers for the future. 
A new member of the Semicentenarians is GEORGE PHILBROOK, '12, a member of the football champions of 1909 with HARRY (RED) MILLER and BILL SCHMITT, *10, and other stalwarts. Also famed as a member of the U.S. Olympic Team, he was unable to make the Class of '12 Golden Jubilee Reunion last June, and it 
After the war he made his home in Houston and, deciding the law was too monotonous after army life, entered the newspaper game. During a two-year period, he was reporter and city editor of the Houston Post, news editor of the Galveston News, and chief of the bureau maintained in Houston by the Galveston News, Dallas News, Austin Statesman and San Antonio Express, He joined the Chronicle in 1922 as a reporter and in 1924 became city edi­tor. In 1934 he was given two additional positions, news editor and member of the editorial board. He became managing edi­tor in 1945, editor and a director of the Chronicle Corporation in 1948. In 1956 he received the additional appointment of vice-president. Having passed retirement age in 1961, he relinquished the duties of editor, but continued with the paper as vice-president and editorial consultant. 
Just before the close of World War II he was one of 18 editors of leading maga­zines and newspapers flown to Europe by the War Department to inspect German concentration camps at Buchenwald and Dachau. Recently he was one of the Hous­tonians to make the initial flight of Air France on its inaugural thrice-a-week round trip between Houston and Paris by jet (in which one leaves Houston at 1 p.m. and is in Paris by 10 p.m.). 
He has been a member of the Houston Planning Commission since 1940, serving as vice chairman most of the time. In 1956 he became chairman. In 1950 he was made a Knight of St Gregory by Pope Pius XII. In 1953, the National Con­ference of Christians and Jews honored him at its Annual Brotherhood Dinner. In 1959, he was made a Knight of Malta. 
He married Miss .\lfreda Winkler of South Bend, Indiana, in 1924. Mr. and Mrs. Walter live at 302 Terrace Drive, Houston, and are members of St. Theresa's Catholic Church. 
Mr. Walter's club afHHation has included: Houston, Rotary, Serra, Notre Dame. Press and Farm and Ranch Clubs; Knights of Columbus, American Legion, Chamber of Commerce, and American Society of News­paper Editors; Executive Committee, Hous­ton Fat Stock Show, Catholic Charities, and Faith Home; Director, Houston Sym­phony, Boy Scouts, Pin Oaks Horse Show, North Side Bank, United Fund, and Texas Good Roads Ass'n.; and Trustee, St Thomas University. 
has been reported that a circulatory ailment has necessitated the amputation of his right leg above the knee. It has also been reported that George's wife died four years ago. Friends may ^vant to drop him a line at 14321 N.E. Salmon Creek, Route 5, Vancouver, Wash. 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne 360 Warner Ave. Syracuse 5, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
We are grateful, as usual, to CLYDE BROUS­SARO of Beaumont, Tex., for much information about Xotrc Dame men of his acquaintance, lo­cludins the sobering note about GEORGE PHIL­BROOK, '12, in the 50-Year Club column above, fonrarded by ART HALEY, '26. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
1914 
Walter Clements 623 Park Avenue South Bend, Indian:i 
After retiring, EDWIN J. (ED) LARXEY and his good wife Marie (Lancaster) Larnc%' left their native Chicago to take up their abode at 824 Southeast 16th Place, Dccrficld Beach, Florida, w'hcre they now reside. 
Wc were at first surprised that they left their beloved Chicago where they had spent many happy years and reared their talented family, but after so many acquaintances hereabouts had broken their bones by reason of the snow and ice in these northern regions of the Midwest, and we had spent mucli of the winter picking our way over the ice, their clioice became quite understandable. 
Their eldest daughter Rosemar>', who has an executive position with a large company, still resides at the family's Chicago abode. The second daugh­ter Dorothy, with an M..A. and working for her doctorate, is an assistant professor at Loyola Uni­vereit>'. John L., a graduate engineer, has gone places in electronics on both sides of the Atlantic, while Catherine, their youngest, lives downstatc with Iier husband and five children. 
And it doesn't seem so long ago that Ed's school­mates at K.D. were envious of him for his ''general per" which meant he could stay out till midnight without permission, because when he came to Notre Dame for law he was a postgrad with A-B. and A.^L degrees from DePaul. 
We were grie\*ed to read of the death September 18 of SIMON T. (CY) FARRELL who, during his years in college, was one of the most popular base­ball heroes at Notre Dame, where he was first base­man for the Varsity and captained the team in 1913. His proficicnc>- at baseball was evidenced by the fact that he became a member of the White Sox team after leaving school. 
"Cy" organized the first Notre Dame club in Joliet and u'as its president. He was a member of many other organizations, Catholic and secular. He and his wife Gertrude, had made their home at 418 Mock St., Jolict. He Iiad retired two years ago from cmplo>Tnent with the Chicago Sanitar>* Dis­trict. Cy received an engineering degree from 
--,3 
••'i ::1 
.-••i 
FATHERS O'BRIEN of Green Bay, Wis., arc brothers and alumni, sons of Mrs. £. 
J. O'Brien and the late Dr. O'Brien. Fr. Charles, '51, (left) is completing doctoral work in lustory at Innsbruck University, Austria. Fr. John, '51, (right) is prin­cipal of Marinette Catholic High School, Marinette, Wis. And Fr. Thomas, 
O. Praem. '57, ordained Sept, 12, is teach­ing at Abbott Pcnnxngs High School, DePcrc Mike (not sho^-n) is an N.D. 
soph. 

30 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 2962 
Notre Dame. His many friends extend sympathy to wife, brother and sister who survive him. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Classmates arc asked to join those on campus in prayers for ROBERT J. FISCHER, reported hospitalized in Chicago. 
1915 
James E. Sanford 1200 Shenvin, Apt. 1-E Chicago 26, Illinois 
From the .Alumni Office: Published last December, "TIic Ground I Walked On," recollections from the 20-year term of DR. GEORGE SHUSTER as president of Hunter College, is still gd'^ S attention from the cogno­scenti — both for its controversial opinions (e.g., on the causes and war crimes trials of World War 
II) and its intimate portraits of famous friends (like Cardinal Spellman, the late Mayor LaGuardia and the late Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt). The publisher, Farrar, Straus fi: Cudahy of Nev\' York, might still be able to scare up a few copies for your 1962 Christmas shopping list. 
In Chicago, JIM SANFORD and Retirement Scr\^ces, Inc., arc still looking to the interests and valuable service of so-called "senior citizens." A recent venture is sponsorship of Sonquist Gardens Co-op .Apartments, moderately assessed "efficienc\*'* or "studio" units designed for the comfort and means of the independent semiretired. 
1918 
Charles W. CaU 
225 Patcrson Ave. 
Hasbrouck Heights, 
New Jersey 
TOM KING, monogram man in football and track, and long Dean of Men at Michigan State University, has not retired as, he says, "many people seem to think," but now is Assistant Secre­tary- of the East Lansing seat of learning. "I most certainly intend to be present at the 45th reunion of the Class of 1918, come next June," he informs. 
Tlie wife of President JOHN LEMMER, reported ill in the last issue, had already died bv the lime the item was read. Pray for her and for classmates CARL EIGELSBACH and FRED­ERICK SLACKFORD, whose deaths were also recently reported. 
1919 
Theo. C. Rademaker Peru Foundry Co. Peru, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: With his usual generous contribution to the Uni­versity, Professor GEORGE D. HALLER of De­troit College of Law cnclost'd a few more haunting reminiscences with particular reference to the ''new*' campus of radiation labs, computer centers, sky­
scraper libraries and geodesic domes. E%'oking images of unforgettable scenes and people, he wrote: "Probably icw persons on the campus today have ever heard of the 'Lifers* Club,* and fewer still had contact with it. In I9ll when I landed on the campus, X.D. was, of course, a college; there were also the seminarians. But quite unlike today, there was also a preparatory' department, and below that the *Minims* of gi^^^c school level. Tlius it was possible for a student to spend upwards of ten 
years *undcr the Dome.* *'In 1916 a group of students under the inspira­tion of FATHER CORNELIUS H.\GERTV, gathered at a dinner in Mishawaka and organized tlic 'Lifers* Club.* To be a member, a student -had to be in a Bfth or later year of continuous enroll­ment. I happened to be chosen the first president. The prep department was abolished in 1922 and the 'Minims* are also only a memory, so there is scant basis today for such a group. I think, if I may be pardoned a pride in my nostalgia, that the 'family' feeling which existed at N.D. prior to 
World War I is not so likely to appear in a more 
sophisticated modem age and among so much ^ . 
larger a group. ^ 
*'Tbe 'family* idea had 3 real basis for not only 
were there 'fathers* and 'brothers* (among the 
religious) —and I remember how, at 13 years of 
age, I learned to distinguish these by the presence 
or absence of the cape — but there were 'mothers* 
and 'sisten* in close contact with the boys, \%'ho 
ranged in age from 8 or 10 into the twenties. 
These religious women did our Iaundr%', %vhich we 
called for by a number. After 30 years I still 
recall my No. 132. Tliey cooked our meals, in­
cluding the memorable breakfast buns, whose soft 
interiors made excellent pellets for obstrepeii'us 
kids in knickers to throw while at the table, when 
FATHER 'KING* FARLEV had his back tum.d. 
When we had our cliildhood ailments, the sisters 
dispensed 'calomel and salts* in the old infirmary. M 
And I bclic\-c they also taught the 'Minims.* ' 

"The student of tlie '60s with a magnificent sk>'scraper librar\' in prospect, perhaps regards the 1917 Iibrar>' as a quaint part of a simpler day. But I helped carr>' books to the 1917 building from an even older librar\', housed on an upper floor of the 'Main Building/ That room, with its high vaulted ceiling towards which climbed twn stories of open shelves and occasional open spaces hung with swords and other curios, was my entryway into the illimitable world of literature, via the familiar classics of another era. It was there I made friends with Tarkington's 'Penrod and Sam,' dreamed myself a member of 'The Three Musket­eers'; mourned the passing of 'Tlie Last of the Mohicans,* sorrowed over the fate of 'Tlie Man Who Would Be King'; grieved over 'The Light ^ That Failed.* I shivered as the wall was closed in 'Tlic Cask of Amontillado,' visioned the eerie In Twain*s 'Mysterious Stranger,' was chilled by Norris* talc of retribution for sin, excited by London's tales of adventure, beguiled bv N.D.'s own CHARLES WARREN STODDARD'S spell of the South Seas. 
"What magic scenes, what heroes, what gay com­panions, awaited in that old room! The poignant death of King Arthur, the earthy realism of 'Spoon River,' the robust heroes of Robert Scr\-icc, the pathos of the fates of Kilmer, Scegar, and Rupert Brooke, the mind-awakening philosophy of Amicl and William James, the sparkle of Chesterton and Belloc, the wild music of Villon, the science of Thomas Dwight, the clarity of Newman, the social av\-akcning of John A. R>'an. 
"It was a day when every book ^\•as fresh and^ entered into the youthful mind like sunshine andv rain, germinating, growing, flowering. Today, with radio, TV, movies and like distractions, the world of books is no longer the chief avenue to the realm of ideas as it was in the old Main Building room. With fewer' distractions, I think wc lived more deeply. I helped FATHER CARRICO compile a poetr\- anthology-; heard FATHER 0*DONNELL give his first reading of 'The Hosting of the Gael*; vied with FATHER THOM/\S BURKE in com­posing light verse for the 'Scholastic*; thrilled to F.ATHER EUGENE BURKE singing 'McNamara's Band' or FATHER 'CON* HAGERTY reciting 'Toussaint L'Ouverturc' to prep schoolers at a foot' ball banquet at Hanev's famous farmhouse inn, I walked with BROTHER ALPHONSUS ani ^ learned the esoteric pleasures of bird watching; FATHER MIKE QUINLAN, by reading to his English class an essay of mine, in the style of Stod­dard, encouraged me to years of contributions to tlie 'Scholastic,' to the founding and first editorship of the 'Santa Maria,* to being chosen cdltor-In­chief of the 'Dome,' to a successful period as editor of a diocesan weekly, and even, I suppose, to such later efforts as my piece on St. Tliomas More, 'The King's Good Scr\-ant,' printed in the May, 1955 'Rosar>-' and reprinted in 'The Catholic Digest' in June, 1955. 
"Tliesc memories lead mc to ofTer my contribu­tion to a greater Notre Dame (where perchance my son may enter In 1966) in the hope that it may help more young men to know days that were as golden as mine *vcrc 'under the Dome,' " 
1920 
James H. Ryan 
170 Maybrodc Rd. 
Rochester 18, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
N.D. Sportscribc CHARLIE CALL.AHAN, '38, recently devoted his national Sunday Visitor column to an oversubscribed testimonial dinner h one WILLUM FRANCIS FOX, JR., after 42 yeai m as a columnist and sports editor with the Indi­anapolis News, Mcntionins such tributes to the 
pCrantland Rice Award winner as those from Indi­anapolis "500" winner Roger Ward, golfer Bobby Jones, and sportswriting dean WALTER W*ELLES­LEY (RED) SMITH. '27. Charlie also reeled off some delightful anecdotes — like Biirs good fortune in suffering a coronary, while addressing a medical convention. Bill and his wife Alice, have four children: Peter, a Jesuit seminarian at West Baden, Ind.; Mike, in the insurance business; Bill, an Indianapolis banker; and Sheila, recently married. Bill Fox, who has won cvcr>' local honor imagin­able for his professional and civic 5cr\-iccs, is, as Callahan wrote, a rare bird — a prophet wIlli honor in his own country*. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 

Letters and notes from *22 men who attended our 40th Reunion continue to arrive, and all the writers ^sccm highly pleased with our grand reunion meeting 's o well arranged and operated by our South Bend committee: A. H/\ROLD WEBER, PAUL SCHWERTLEY, and RANGY MILES, under the able direction of Chairman FRED DRESSEL, and all under the expert guidance of our fine president, 
J. RALPH CORYN. From New York, ART SHEA writes: "The 40th reunion photograph of the Class of 1922 was de­livered a few days ago. I am delighted to have my copy. It is quite a handsome group. You may mark me down for the 45th in 1967 and may it please the good Lord, Til be there. I am sorry that 
my brother, BOB SHEA, could not be along with us. By the way. Bob has recently resigned from 
U.S. Government service. Since 1945 he had been connected with the Executive Branch of the U.S. Government." Thanks, Art. please sec to it that Bob attends our 45th. We all missed him last June. 
^ DR. DAN SEXTON of St. Louis writes: "This note is a little belated but nevertheless carries the full intent to congratulate you and the others for getting the gang out for our Reunion. It really was a wonderful turnout. I must admit that it struck mc at a very* difficult time, and had you not applied the pressure, I think I might have found good reasons for not attending. Since I did attend, I was most delighted and would not have missed the Reunion for anything in the world. I now look for^vard to live and ten years from now, and trust that most of us will be there." 
Chicagoan PAUL PFOHL, who recently was 
K
elc\-atcd to a vice presidency of RCA, sends this contribution: "I fully agree with you about the ien of our '22 Class, in that not only do we asically possess the traditional Notre Dame spirit and loyalty, but in addition, there is sort of a clanishncss circulated throughout our group, which other classes unfortunately lack to a greater or lesser extent. In fact, I sometimes think that some of the 'stick-togetherness' we '22ers enjoy has rubbed off considerably on the Class of '23, for they seem to possess to a degree the linkage wc 
enjoy," 
From Drcxel Hill, Pennsylvania, comes a salvo 
from DAN YOUNG: "It was terrific, and the most 
enjoyable visit that I have had in many a year.'^ 
AL CARROLL of Rockford, Illinois, thinks five 
years is too long to wait for our next reunion, Al. 
also, reports a past reunion meeting with JIM 
SHAW, and that the CarroIIs had a nice visit 
with the TO.M McCABEs in Rockford. In the final 
stages of our sessions at Notre Dame, DR. MATT 
WEIS was strongly advocating weekly '22 reunions. 
»We extend our svmpalhy and prayers to JOSEPH . STEWART of 6933 Pennsylvania St., Kansas City 13, Mo., on the death of his father, Robert Stewart. Two priests In Texas — sons of our classmate LEO MAHONEY of happy memory and mother Julia Mahoncy of South Bend — are saying a monthly Mass for a period of one year for the living and deceased of our Class. This was happily arranged by our Class treasurer, DR. MATT WEIS, who also IS custodian extraordinary' of our Memorial Mass Fund. ^The A. HAROLD WEBERs were touring the Scandinavian countries, Holland and Belgium last 
JOHN C. O'DONNELL, '24 Parent, Partner to Three N.D. Lawyers 
It is no longer uncommon for an alum­nus to have three sons who are also alumni. But it may be unique for a law graduate to have three alumni sons who are also lawyers, residing in their home town as their father's law partners. Such is the happy case with John O'Donnell of Mans­field, O., former Richland County prose­
summer. On October 7, the LAWRENCE "BUCK" SHAWs, of Menio Park, Calif., departed San Fran­cisco on a tour to the Orient. Our reporter, a sober fellow, insists that Bucic was seen riding around in a rickshaw prior to his departure to gel *'oricnted" for the Orient. 
Hearty congratulations to the HONORABLE AL SCOTT of Los .Angeles, who celebrates in December his 30th anniversar>' as a judge on the bench of the Superior Court of California. Best of wishes to you and yours, .\L 
From the Alumni Office: 
Enclosing a recent "People on the Way Up " tear sheet from the Satcvepost, JLM S.-\NFORD, '15, pointed to its mention of TV Emcee Nancy Clark of Boise, Idaho, whose hard.hitting docu­mentaries have won Station KTVB two national awards. Nanc\' is the daughter of a classmate, the late Senator D. WORTH CLARK of Idaho (LL.D. *40). She mentions three sons, who ought to be good material for N.D. 
1923 
Louis V. Bniggncr 2163 Riverside Dr. South Bend, Indiana 

The pall of death hangs over our Class again with the news of se\'eral decedents since our last issue. In August LINUS GLOTZBACH died of a heart attack following closely a short siege of pneumonia. He had also been ill for several vears with Parkin­son's disease. JOHN LEONARD MURPHY, Monogram Club member since his campus high-jumping days, died suddenly in San Francisco on 
cutor and partner in the law firm of Ander­
son, Will & O'DonneU (& O'Donnell & 
O'Donnell & O'DonneU). 
Bom November 2, 1902, in Canonsbur^ Pa., John was graduated from Dover High School, Dover, O., before coming to Notie Dame for his LL.B. from the Law School in 1924. Admitted to the Ohio Bar, he practiced in New Philadelphia, O., 1924-28, and on June 8, 1926, he married Mary Margaret Jurgens of Mansfield. They had four children: John C, Jr. (Jack), NJ3. '51, married and the father of six; James J., 
N.D. '51,stiU single; Hugh B., N.D.'57, also single; and a married daughter, Dorothy O'Donnell Peters, whose six children bring the total of John's grandchildren to an even dozen. All now live in Mansfield, O. 
In 1928 John moved to Mansfield and has practiced law there ever since. The firm includes the late Judge C. J. Anderson (1878-1954), James V. WiU, John O'Don­neU and sons Jack, Jim and Hugh (the last passed the Ohio Bar just a few months ago). They are engaged in general prac­tice and trial law. John was formerly prosecuting attorney of Richland Coimty, Ohio, and president of the Richland County Bar Assn. He is also a former Grand Knight and District Deputy of the Knights of Columbus and former chairman of the Richland County Democratic Executive Committee. Settled down to a relatively relaxed schedule, he now enjoys travel and sports, including an undespairing interest in Notre Dame's football fortunes. 
Jack, Jim and Hugh are not the first trio of O'Donnells from the University. John had two alumni brothers — William 
H. O'Donnell, '26, and Dr. Hugh B. O'Don­nell, '38, both now deceased. 
September 19^ according to word first received froa AUGUST DESCH, his old roommate. Three old students, listed in '23 files, also died, these be ^ RICHARD P. OTONNOR, GEORGE E. CARTIER and JOHN K. RUCKELSHAUS. O'Connor died June 4, unknown to this office imttl his widow notified us recently. The Alumni Office filled us In on the death of Cartier in Ludington, Michigan oa February 23, and Ruckclshaus died August 31 in Indianapolis, his home city. 2lfeager information prevents me from adding more'details. 
From our correspondents I ha%-e gleaned the 
following: 
A letter from THOMAS J. LEE, supervisor of land and claims of Northern States Power Co. in addition to his notification of Glotzbach's death: "a week ago .. . at the 17th green at the annual St. Paul Open Golf Tournament .. . I was watch­ing . . . when PAUL CASTNER sat down beside me and we talked about JOHN BYRNE who was in St. Paul a year ago and I had lunch with him . . . AIAURIE DACY and others . . . Paul looks fine, big and healthy as ever . . . other than Linus and Paul I haven't seen a '23 man in a long time. Last fall I stopped at BILL VOSS' office In Chi­cago. . . . KID ASHE *22 was In town last spring. . . " 
Cairo, Illinois' E. MERLIN ROLWING sent me two pages of single-spaced t>-pewrlting excerpted as follows: "Mauric Dacy . . . came as a real shock .. . I knew his wife quite well . . . terribly sorry . . . the passage of lime .. . I remember our last reunion . . . JOHN BYRNE . . . KARL BARR . . . KEVIN BARR . . . and several others amon^ the missing . . . last year I looked up GEORGE UHLMEYER In Rock Island .. . he is a widower . . . retired . . . sells a bit of Insurance .. . between golf . . . had an enjoyable \'isit . . . made him promise to be with us In 1963 . . . later I drove to Dubuque, Iowa . . . looked up ED 
TSCHUDI ... . Did we ever have a gabfest . . . first time I'd :ecn him since 1923 . . . before we know it our 40th Reunion will be at hand .. . I hope ever)' sur\-iving Classmate will make a special effort to be there. . . . Last of all I think of PIO MONTENEGRO .. . my Christmas card in 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
1941 came back undelivered and all attempts by registered mail since then have failed. . . . Tm conv'inced PIo is dead .. . no telling what the Japs might have done. .. . I plan to tr>' again this ii'inter .. . if I can accomplish anvthing, I must tell JOHN MONTAGUE about it. My wife (the former Rose Marbaugh of South Bend) and I have the house to ourselves now . . . planning a Hawaiian vacation in 1963 and Europe by 1963 .. . 12 grandchildren . . - i%vo of my boys arc N.D. grads . . . Bob, M.E. MO and Jerry, M.S. Math 
*48 1 am now senior member on Board of Directors of Illinois Ass'n of Insurance Agents . . . my 14th year on State Board . . . \Vc have an N.D. grad on the board Irom Ashland, 111., 
— BOB NEWELL — don't know his year , . . Marinette's LAUERMAN, HENRY that is, wrote in June "you will be seeing TOM PLOUFFwho teils me he expects to make the off-year reunion this year (Ed. Note — yes, I met Tom and his brother briefly outside Morris Inn) .. . a c>cle of 40 years is returning - . . Tom and I were roommates in Badin . . . recently he was in search of larger office space . . . my good fortune to have space available .. . so now wc are not exactly room­mates, this is as close as we can get . . . Tom and I bad just commented on how fortunate our class had been within the year as to dcatlis . . . but that was before your report came to sadden 
me . . . God willing 1 shall see you a year from now." 
A nott; in late spring and a post card from the HARRY FLANNERYS datelincd West Germany: "Ruth and I spending four weeks in West Germany and Switzerland. On to Berlin from here. Best to you and all." Harr>% you may recall, was with CBS in Berlin \»hcn World War II broke out, re­placing one William Shircr. May wc look fon\'ard to some brilliant copv from you, Harr>', datelincd Beriin, 1962? 
VINCENT J. BROWTv' reported in June he "en­joyed reading your latest offering. Very sorry about three more deaths ... . Ran into JOHN COCH­RANE en route Northwestern game last fall . . . Part of enclosed check is to be used as cntrv fee in grandfathers* derbv, VINCENT J. BROWTs, JR., '51 and BERNARD J. BRO^\7^^ *53 and our daughter have a total of 11 children, \nnccnnes papers please copy . . . hope to be back in '63, the good Lord witling." 
LOU MOORE of Columbia Geneva Steel admits facing a "horrible correspondent but enjoy your letters . . . keep them coming . -. here is some more of that stuff . . . Kay and myself are in good health, as is the entire tribe, including 12 grandchildren." 
JOHN C. COCHRANE reported from Toledo in July: "received vour R.I.P. card . . . shocked to say the least. , ', . JOHN BYRNE and I were roommates in Sorin last t^vo years . . . last time we met was at our 35th. .. . I will of course write to his widow . . . these events do give us reason to pause ... all is O. K. with me and family. . . . enclosing a bit for the stamp fund." 
JAMES J. McQUERN finds these newsletters most interesting and observes he "will consider it a prinlege to be enrolled in the .Association of the Providential Proposal to be remembered and prayed for by X.D. Alumni . . . N.D. is always upper­most in our thoughts." 
JOHN NORTON of the Chicago Monday Morn­ing Quarterbacks Club writes me ever>* Sunday during the football season, as follows, "Dear Louis: ("$$$ & '?©!!!) If . -. but . , . why? . . . oh well, next week." ED SHEA writes often if frequently and as recently as August spoke hope­fully of football prospects. 
EDWARD PETER KREIMER wrote in June from Fort Wayne to congratulate me and rib me about matters referred to below. . . . He and his vitaphih'ac young wife, ^fargie, were house guests of the Bruggners at the Pittsburgh game. JOE DON.\LDSON is alive and kicking in Louisville as recently as September 10, when he wrote up nawth for rooms for the Purdue game. 
Just in case vou missed pre\-ious rcportings, this is to tell you that our F.\THER JOHN J. CAVA­NAUGH has been named to the newly created post of director of student religious life. He will co­ordinate campus spiritual activities and the work of the university's chaplains. 
JOHN CHAPL.A was here for the Purdue game; his wife^ couldn't make it. BENJAMIN FRANK­U N TYLER and wife were here also. I tried to get the two men In touch with each other, but Frank had checked out of his hotel before I called when John came in. Frank and I had a nice long visit in my soupeteria. 
.What Ed Krcimer was joshing me about •were the imagined poUtical complications of my appoint­ment last June to the local School Board at the 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 2962 
hands of JUDGE JOSEPH W. NYIKOS. The appointment came about because of a state-wide reorganization of school districts wherein roughly half of St. Joseph County was formed into a metro­politan school corporation with a largely new Board in charge. I am one of seven members but what Ed didn't take into account is that the Board is bipartisan, with overlapping terms, and a balanced political complexion. The reorganization involved a tremendous amount of work (which incidentally helped delay this column} but I find the work challenging and fascinating and so far harmonious. It is hardly a remunerative job — but tun even so. 
From the .Alumni Office: Congratulations to tlie aforementioned H.\RRY FLANNERY for his re-election as President of the Catholic .Association for International Peace. Harry serxcd in the job previously 1957-58. 
1924 
James R. Mcchan 301S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 

From the Alumni OfKce: 
JIM MEEHAN, up to his eyeballs in James R. Meehan & Associates, hb drafting room supply business, dropped by to for\%'ard some correspond* cnce to his noncorrcsponding Class. 
RAY DURST, '26, wrote in Septemben "^'ou are undoubtedly aware of the passing of WILLIAM 
R. *RED' MAHER .. . but I thought you might find the enclosed obituary* notice helpful in pre­paring your mention of the sad and tragic circum­stance in your Class of '24 Notes for the next issue of the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. (The Maher obituary appeared in the October issue. Ed.) 
'* 'Red' and his wonderful wife, Julia, had just completed a fine Labor Day weekend visit with tlieir son Bill at Neenab, AVIsconsin, vvlien, en route to their home in Park Ridge, he complained of not feeling well. Just after alighting from their car in front of their home, he collapsed and died almost immediately as a result of heart failure. His 
wake was very well attended and represented a 
great tribute to him and his lovely family. I know you will remind your classmates to remember him fer\'cntly in their prayers." Ray, a former associate of Red's at Hallicrafters Corp., has stated it so well that Jim Afcelian saw nothing to improi'c. Sym­pathy to the widow and heirs of a great football player and *'a fine N.D. man." The words arc those of JIM S.ANFORD, '15, one of many Chicago friends who mourned Red's passing. 
President ROBERT M. RINK wrote from Goshen Manufacturing Co., Goshen, Ind.: **It has certainly been a long time 'no see, no hear,' and I hope this letter finds you enjoying the best of everything. 
"You, sometimes I think the old story» *The closer the cliurch, the farther from God,* is most applicable — here we arc almost 'neighbors' and we seldom see each other, ^Vhy? 
"Jim, the main reason for writing you was to tell yoti of the fateful step that our good friend TEX* RICKARD has finally taken—yes, he marched down the aisle January- 9. I met the girl he married when I was out in California about a vear ago, and her first name is Zoila. . . . You MH u-ritc Tex as follows: V. E. Rickard, 2567 Armacost Avenue, West Los Angeles 64, Calif." 
1925 
John P. Hurlcy 2083 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 

"Date-Line" Davenport, Iowa; In the past month I have been in touch w-ith and talked to a few of our classmates .. . be­cause of a drive for patron tickets for the Pat Mc­Carty Memorial Fund. Through the cfTorts of coach TOM McHUGH (who now has the number tivo team in Ohio), and his Central Catholic Alutnn! and the Toledo Notre Dame Club, over 57,500 was raised and will go to PAT McCARTY's widow and the nine children. The Toledo Central Cath­olic-Benedictine game was taken over through the cooperation of both schools. This was Central's opener and if they won last night in SteubcnviHe Tom will have the NUMBER ONE high school team in Ohio. Lots of Notre Dame material as well as a future coach for our .Alma Mater. DON MILLER helped in our contacts with Benedictine, and we had a verv pleasant visit in Cleveland. I was in touch with ELMER LAYDEN, HARRY STUHLDREHER and JIM CROWLEY, but because of previous com-i mitments it wasn't possible for them to be at the game, .A feu* weeks later I met Harr\-, Elmer and HANK WURZER between the halves of the Purdue game. All of them look great. I saw VIRGIL FAG.AN for a moment before this game. He is still keeping Sears supplied as he is in the Purchas­ing Dept. of the national office in Chicago. FR.ANC1S MEKUS, who was "spotlighted" in the last ALUMNUS as a member of '26, started out with us. He and his fellow townsman TED BENTZ in Fremont, Ohio, were and always arc a big help in any Toledo Area Notre Dame effort. CH.ARLIE MOUCH headed our Sandusky com­mittee. CARL MEKUS came through with help from .Archbold, Ohio. P.AUL MILLER, who is an attorney in North Baltimore, was most cooperative. There were many more Notre Dame alumni who helped, but they were" not members of our clas? so I will just pass on a big "thank you" froii^ Pat McCartv's widow. BERNARD GEORGE KESTING and many Toledo almuni helped, but "my territory" was the towns around Toledo. BEN KESTING is back in poh'tics in the home lotfn of Toledo. He is again County Engineer and wilt be up for election No­vember 6 (next Tuesday at this writing) as he was appointed temporarily until the election next week. I saw Ben out at the Toledo Notre Dame Golf tournament. He swings a "mean" driver. R^\Y TILLMAN doesn't play golf, but he still gets up with the chickens and is at 6:30 Mass cvcr\' morn­ing. 
GLASS OF 1928 gathers for one o( the ammal p05t<^[amc parties held in Octohcr. Sir Edmund and Lady Hillary (not shown) were guests d Chicago's Howard Phalin at the '2^ party after the Michigan State game, thdr first encounter with American football, in which the Spartans conquered the Irish much as Hillary conquered Mount Everest. f 
I sure hated to miss GEORGE LUDWIG's daugh­ter's wedding in Muskegon, Mich. Mary Beth 

• Ludvvig married one of my favorite adopted Notre Dame sons . . . JOHN HAYWARD, president of the Class of '52. Mar>- Beth went to St. Mar>''s, and in my book she was the most beautiful bride of 1962. Our daughter, Pat Undcnvood of Bcttcn­dorf, Iowa, was visiting us at the time, and wc couldn't get over to Muskegon. Incidentally I am writing this in Bcttcndorf . . . and it's only moments away from the Na\y game, and I must sign off. I don't believe I mentioned that I ran into STE\'E CORBOY in Chicago and had a nice card from BOB GORDON, but I have lo see that game and get this in the mail. 
From the Alumni Office: HARRY STUHLDREHER, mentioned above, 

w forcefully defended college football and its popu-Jariiy at the recent kickofT dinner of the Quarter­back Club of San Antonio, Tex., and traded badinage with cospeaker and former teammate CHARLES (CHUCK) COLLINS to the delight of those assembled. 
Congratulations to FRANK J. STARZEL for his 14 years as general manager of the /Vssociated Press. Frank retired as chief of the world-wide news ser\'­ice recently, having worked for AP since 1929, and announced he will relax at his farm near South Londonderry', Vt. In his ncwspapering career after 
N.D. and Iowa, he worked on the Iowa City Press-Citizen, Des Moines Register and Tribune, Bloomington (III.} Fantagraph and Chicago Journal before signing on with AP. Frank has been hailed for the great ph>'sical and technical expansion of 

• the news bureau under his direction. 
1926 
Frank A. Deitle 
! 1763 Kcsslcr Blvd. South Bend 16, Ind. 

•M The basket of '26 news is about empty this trip. Have heard indirectly that DENNIS O'NEILL and family will be in town for the Michigan State Game. Tlieir daughter. Sister Afar>- Darcy, received her black. veil this past August in the Sisters of Charity of Saint Augustine. A couple weeks ago I met DOC GELSON at Holy Cross Church in South Bend. Doc's son Alan had brought his belongings back to Notre Dame in their station wagon, and Doc *vas returning the wagon to their home in New Jersey. Tiroes do change. Spent a ver>* pleasant two days with RUDY GOEPFRICH in September. He arranged a four­some to play golf at Olympia Fields south of Chicago. Then the following day the same group rmwent to Rudy's cottage at Long Lake FnMichigan 
"fo r more golf and some of Mrs. Goepfrich's good food. On their basement wall are sixteen wooden pegs and on the pegs are sixteen little wooden chairs, one for each of their sixteen grandchildren. ^o room for disagreement there. 
1927 
darcncc J. Ruddj^ 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: Peg Boland, assistant to the Dean of Students and "den mother" for the off-campus boys, has been busy in her off-duty hours at autographing parties as editor of a composite portrait of her late great husband, "JOE BOLAND — Notre Dame Man." Still a top best seller in these parts, the book contains testimony from dozens of Joe's friends and fellow alumni. It's published by 'NSP Pub' fishing Co., Hammond, Ind., for $3.50 and is a 
^landy item for everybody's Christmas list. 
V A couple of months ago Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. GREEN, JRM became celebrities in Houston, Tex., when their daughters Marjo and Mary Lou gave birth to daughters on the same day. Marjo is the wife of RALPH SAUER, '60, an accountant for Humble Oil and secretary' of the Notre Dame Club of Houston. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest Hills 75, N.Y, 

EUGENE (RED) MORIARTY died vcr%- sud­denly of a heart attack on December 15, 1961 while driving home from i»'ork. Red had his own Real Estate and Insurance Ageno" in Willimantic, Conn. He is sur\*ived by his wife, two daughters and three granddaughters. Mrs. Moriarty advised that Red was planning on attending our 35th re­union in June 1963. 
JOHN ROBINSON advised me that JI.M HAYES, formerly of New Britain, died several years ago. Jim has been on our "mail returned unclaimed" list for some time. Please review this list in the roster sent to you in September and advise me if you know where any of these men arc located. One good result of the erroneous listing of ED ILVFTER in the death column of the ALUMNUS was that it got a response from BILL CRONIN, who called GEORGE CRONGEYER about it. Bill lives at 2234 Palmer, New Rochelle, N. Y. I was sorry to hear that Bill had undergone a serious eye opera­tion which involved a detached retina. I hope that Bill will be able to attend our 35th reunion. You will all remember the great job he did at our 25th in raising the largest class siKer anniversary' gift to the University. 
Since X was not aware that the death notice in the ALUMNUS regarding ED RAFTER was an error, I wrote a letter of sympathy to his family. I received a reply in Ed's handwriting saying, "It's almost unbelievable, but as Edward passed out, he had a copy of the ALUMNUS in one hand and was holding a '28 beanie In the other. We had thought something more religious might be appropriate, but the only reference he made to religion wK his last remark, 'God save the Class of '28.'" 
ED RAFTER mentioned that he met JOE EN­RIGHT at the wake of RAY MULLIG.AN's father. Joe lost his wife about a year ago. He has one daughter. On the way from Nassau, Ed Rafter visited GEORGE COURY who was in the process of organizing a new National Bank in Miami and also financing a grocery section in a new mammoth discount house on the outskirts of Miami. George sees DAVE SMITH, who has retired. 
JOHN ROBINSON is looking lor^vard to our class reunion in June. On Universal Notre Dome Night, John saw LARRY CULLINEY in New Haven. They had a great reunion with FATHER THORNTON who was the speaker of the evening. John sees JOHN (CLIPPER) SMITH frequently. HJs son is at Notre Dame. JOHN ROBINSON £s now a grandfather. He also has a daughter in the Ursuline Order. 
DENNY DALY, who is practicing law in St. Paul, has a son who is a freshman at Notre Dame. JOE LANGTON, who did such a fine job raising money for promoting our reunion, has a daughter who joined the Sisters of St. Joseph of Carotidolet whose motherhousc is In St. Louis. 
JOE BRANNON ^^-rltes from Glendale, Cali­fornia, where he is tviih Scars, Roebuck & Co., pronming that he will tr>- very hard to attend the 35th reunion in June 1963. "It Is incredible," says Joe, "to realize that 35 years have collapsed, along with about two-thirds of our classmates. So. if I am ever going to attend a class reunion, I'd better make it this one, as your actuarial tables inform me that the insurance odds are about 7-1 that Til be unable to attend the 40th reunion. Against me, not for me." Joe's report Is a classic on his trip with his wife and three children to explore central Mexico with the thought of finding a spot for eventual retirement. 
DOC. F. W. FORD Is practicing medicine in Billings, Montana. He has a son In pre-med at the University of Montana and another in the 8th grade. If any of you are interested in big game hunting, get in touch with Doc Ford. Speaking of hunting reminds me that SWEDE SCHROEDER'S annual moose hunting trip in Canada again Inter­fered with his attending the '28 cocktail party fol­lowing the ^{ichigan State game. 
GEORGE ^VAGNER, a retired Nat^I officer, practices law in Lucas, Ohio, and has a 101-acre farm where he has fun raising pheasants, guineas, rabbits and chickens. He and his wife have spent the last four winters in Mexico. He met CONNIE OCHOA's sister, -Mrs. Hccht, who has the largest travel agency in Guadalaj'ara. This year George is visiting Japan and Hong Kong. 
I am pleased to be able to report a marriage again, the first such announcement In a number of years. PAT CANN^' was married on September 19, 1962, to Mrs. Loretta Rohr at Cleveland, Ohio. They live at 25371 Br>den Road, Beachwood 22, Ohio. 
FATHER JIM McSHANE, S.J., continue his good ^s'ork preaching missions and teaching kids of all ages at Casa Cural, El Progrcso, Yoro, Hon­duras, C, A. He mentioned in a recent letter that every time firecrackers go off in the middle of the night he thinks the revolution has started. 
BERNIE GARBER mentioned that he saw JOE CAIN at a recent Notre Dame Club partv In New York. 
GLADIATORS AND GALS discussing conunon interests at one of the past season's practice sessions are (I>-r.) Coach Joe Kuharich, head football coach; Sister John Baptist, IHM, and Sister Jean Vianney, C^.C., daughters of John Wallace, '28, of Glendale, Calif., 
(a player on the 1924-25-26 teams); and Vincc Mattcra, sophomore tacUc. Both sisters are studying for graduate degrees at the University, and A^ttcra hails from Mater Dei High, San Francisco, where Sister John Baptist was formerly a teacher. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 33 
Mrs, BucUc>- and 1 spent an enjoyable evening with TOM BOV in New York this summer. Tom continues as chief engineer on an oil tanker for Esso. Tom has a nephew at Xoirc Dame who is following his uncle on the track. I talked to PHIL BERTHIAUME in Portland, Oregon, where he is regional manager of Bankers Life Company. His daughter is working on her >t-A. degree at Stanford. I saw our classmate, FATHER CHARLES HAMEL, C.S.C., and our teacher, FATHER MILT­\£R , C.S.C., at the University of Portland where lhe>- arc teaching. FATHER HAMEL spent last vear in France. I also saw FATHER GEORGE L. bUM, C.S.C., who finished N.D. in 1929. 
I talked to LARRY CULLTN'EY in Xorili Haven, Conn. In his travels as an examiner for the Fed­eral Deposit Insurance Corp. he sees in Rutland. Vi., JOE CANNON and ED MCCELLJW who arc attome\s. JOHN FOLEY who b in the Iaundr>­business and JOE RADIG.^', '29, Federal District Attorney for Vermont. He also sees -ART and JOHN MITIGUY who are in the drug business in Burlington, Vi., and CLINTON RYAN who lives in Milton, Vt. 
NORB SEIDENSTICKER has another son start­ing at Notre Dame this year and a daughter in her last year at St. Mary's. ED TULLY has moved from Massachusetts to Princeton. New Jersey. A trip by MIKE RICKS to Europe interfered with his attendance this year at the *28 cocktail party. 
Your class oRicers and committee members are working hard on plans for our 35th reunion on June 14, 15 and IG, 1963. You received in Septem­ber a class roster from President JIM ALhXS, I hope you have made good use of it by writing to your friends, in order to make arrangements for meeting them at the reunion. I have lunch with BERNIE G.\RBER regularly to discuss his plans to promote attendance with the help of his com­mittee. VINCE CARNE\' is working on suitable attire, which has alwa\-s distinguished our *28 re­union class on the campus. RAY MULLIG.AN is getting the Glee Club together for the affair. FATHER ANDY MULREANY, C.S.C., and ED QUINN arc working with their Committee on local arrangements. We hope to be in Lyons Hall again. I was pleased to note in the spedal message to the 1963 reunion classes that the Class of 1928 had the highest 1961 participation figures of the 1963 re­union classes in the N.D. Challenge Program. 
Since your Class Secretary will be in Germany studying administration of labor programs when these notes reach you, I have asked BERNIE GARBER to prepare this column for the next issue. I hope he will be able to give you a report on the *28 cocktail party on October 20 at Notre Dame and the one at HOAVIE PHALIN's home in Wm­netka, Illinois, on October 27th. 
From the Alumni Office: Among many recent speeches by Secretary Buck­ley as Eastern Emplo>-ment Security administrator for the Labor Dcpt,: "Background of the Manpower Development and Training .\ct" for the first con­ference on that subject at N. Y. U.;^ "Social Se­curity and Social Insurance," delivered in Nc^v York to the Sodality Congress of the Lay Apostolate and printed in the October issue of "Social Action 
Digest." 
1929 
Larry Stauder 
Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Indiana 

.\LOIS \VELZENB.\CH writes from Los .Angeles (3638 S. Genesee -Ave.), where he represents Welz Sales Company, food brokers. Al's duties include travel to Hawaii; no wonder he reports that he enjoys his *Vork." Son Jack, age 27, is with United Airlines, while AVilliam is enrolled at Loyola University, Los .Angeles, where he is a junior. The Welzcnbaiji daughter, Barbara, age 23, is now Mrs. Walter Havekorst, wife of a San Francisco dental student. Last spring .AI visited with FR.AXK HAUELICK in Miami. Frank is cliief pilot of PA-A-Gracc Ainvays, Inc. He sees MORT GOOD­MAN, BOB GERVAIS and others who visit Rudi's Italian Inn, the site of the monthly first Thursday meeting of the Southern California Alumni Club. 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
FRED J. WAGNER, '29 Sold on Service, Noiv Sachem of Scrra 
As a fitting milestone in a life of sen-ice to Church, civic and fraternal organizations, Fred Wagner last June was elected presi­dent of Serra International, a Catholic lay organization devoted to the work of foster­ing vocations to the priesthood. Named for Father Junipero Serra, the great Franciscan missionan- of early California, the huge organization under Fred's direction has more than 10,000 members in 230 clubs throughout the U.S. and seven other na­tions. Most of his time this year has been taken up with speaking engagements in the far-flung chapters of Serra. 
A native of Tiffin, O., Fred went to St. Joseph's school and Columbian high school before coming to Notre Dame for a B.C.S. degree. While at the University, he sang 
If FR.ANK DENNEY is reading, AX would like to 
contact vou. 
PHILIP J. TO.MPKLNS, Hart Drug, Inc., Evans­ville, Ind., wrote some time ago of his wife Eloise Dorothy and cliildren. Lenora E. (Miles), age 31, is the mother of three boys, Kim, Kerry and Kyle. Son Rev. F. Philip Tompkins, age 30. of Kansas City Diocese, was ordained .April 2, 1960. He is assistant at Church of the Nativ*ity of the Blessed Virgin, Independence, Mo. Daughter Gertrude E. (Muenstcrmann) has Karen, Terry John, Susan Marie and Mary .Ann to keep her occupied. Phil's ncx-t sons, uv'ias James P. and Lawrence P., arc teachers at St. Charles Boromeo, Kansas City, having graduated from Bellarmine College, Louis­ville, Ky. They are continuing their studies at Kansas University. Daughters Kathleen E. and Eloise Mar;' are studying to be X-Ray technicians. And lastly twin daughters Chrbtinc E. and Xadinc 
E. arc seniors at Memorial High; they plan to major in math and English respectively. (Wc share your pride in a fine family.) Phil has been associated with the same finn for thirty v'ears as phannacist and supervisor. 
P.AUL HEMMY, JR., visited the campus in June for his son David's graduation. David is now en­rolled at Hahnemann College of Medicine in Phila­delphia. JIM BR.ADY reports that son Jerry, '58, was graduated from U. of California (Berke­ley) Law School. Jim's twin boys. Jack and Jim­mie, arc sophomores at Notre Dame, and his daughter Jill recently graduated from San Diego College for Women. 
with the Glee Club for four years as a solo­ist and member of the varsit>- quartet andj was elected president in his senior year. 
Back in Tiffin Fred's start in business was paralleled by interest in the activities of his parish. A member of the Holy Name Society from the start, he has maintained an interest in church music and has ser\'ed for 12 years as director of the parish choir. A veteran of the Knights of Columbus, he has been a 4th Degree Knight for 27 years. At one time he ser\-ed as Faithful Navigator of the .Archbishop Schrembs General As­sembly of the 4th Degree K. of C. 
In civic and fraternal life, Fred is a( member of the B.P.O.E., past president of the Tiffin Chamber of Commerce and the Exchange Club, past member of the Board of Trustees of Mercy Hospital. 
In 1954 Fred and his pastor attended a charter night dinner of the Sandusky Serra Club. He returned to Tiffin and helped organize a Serra Club there, becoming its first president in 1955. The Tiffin chapter is one of four in the diocese, 12 in Ohio. In 1956 he became deputy governor of Ohio District 20 and the next year was namedg district governor. For the past four years he has ser\'ed on the international board 
— as trustee, second vice-president and first vice-president. The Serra movement began in Seattle, Wash., in 1935. Serra Interna­tiona] was formed three years later. Head­quarters were established in Chicago in 1946 with the late Samuel Cardinal Stritch (now Albert Cardinal Meyer) as episcopal advisor. Last year Serrans voted a dues increase to help foster vocations in Latin -America. Serra Clubs must maintain a minimum membership of 25 and must meet weekly or semimonthly. Members must attend 60 per cent of meetings. % 
Fred is engaged in the general insurance business, owning and operating his own agency and devoting a great part of his time to real estate interests. For many years he has ser\'ed as a member of the Board of Directors of the Tiffin Savings Bank. Fred is unmarried and lives with his sister at 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, O. 
JOHX DORGAN was out to Wsit Jim and lii^ 
family in Idaho this past June. Jim is still in the 
newspaper-television-radio birsiness. 
Dr. FRANK P.AUL KANE of Binghamton, X. Y., 
follows our football team to games in his area. His 
children are three: .Ada Mar>', 21; Frank, Jr., 16; 
and Kathcrine, age 13. 
Your secretary adds his condolences to those of the rest of the Class to widow Helen, daughter Suzanne, brothers and sister of JOHN* LAW on the occasion of his sudden and untimely death. John was a pillar of strength to the Class. 
CLETE SCHNEIDER came through with this letter this summer: *'I was pleased to hear about the gel-togetlier after the Michigan State game, as I missed out last year due to fouled up last minute arrangements. As the old cliche goes, we can't wait for five years to sec the *29ers. 
^'Recently I spent some time with KARL MARTERSTECK at a Propeller Club party. .Amon^ other things, he keeps me informed, for our Grea " Lakes Historical Society, about any old boat timbers or ivrecks that his (and BOB TROTTER's) Great Lakes Dredge and Dock rigs dig up. 
"DR. TOM FERRITER called me up when he was on his way home from the .AM.A convention. He missed you at -Xotrc Dame as you were at .Argonnc, but he did set a chance to show his family the campus that he has been raving about all these years. Wc exchanged news about F.ATHER OTIS WINCHESTER, TOM SHEA, JOE JACHVM, DON HOG.AN, LOUIS SINCLAIR^ JOE and JI.M FRIEL, FRANK BELTING an V 
many others. Dr. Tom apparently got a late start ^i n raising a family, but has caught up fast with ^s'ix children, the oldest 14. 
"During the Alumni Drive I ran across other '29ers such as DON KREIS, PAUL HOLAHAN, JOHX COLANGELO, CARL WOLFRAM. As NORM McLEOD is the man about town, I see him frequently. . , ." 
DR. TOM FERRITER and wife Clair and two oldest, Tom and Mary, toured the campus on their return to Springfield, Mass., irom the ASfA Con­vention, where he had a pleasant visit with DR. DICK HOGAN. 
First returns from those coming to the October 20 Class of '29 get-together include the following: PAUL BARTHOLOMEH' taught summer school at the U. of Tennessee and is continuing his work on a study of the Third Congressional District. Tliis 

•WStudy
 is sponsored by a $25,000 grant. Son Tom, '58, is with the 7th fleet at present near Japan whUc Bob, '62, is continuing his studies in in­dustrial design at Michigan State U. Paul has the good news that MARC KIRCHNER is much im­proved in health. Marc has traveled the East Coast on business trips in recent months. His new address is 2l7 Tippcrar>* Lane, Winston-Salem, 

N.
 C. 



From the Alumni Ofiice: ! New York, Tarr>'lown and Yonkers newspapers were filled with tributes to JOHN B. L.\W as an "idol of thousands" in his athletic, business and civic careers. A particularly touching eulogj' on **Johnny" appeared In the Yonkers "Herald States-Aman," too long to quote here, but its sentiments will abide in the hearts of friends and classmates. JOHN T. KEARNS, director of public works and former city engineer for Champaign, III., has been a popular candidate for appointment as city manager, but he announced he ivasn't bidding lot the job. John has been with the Champaign city government since 1944 and might eventually be drafted. 
U.S. District Court Judge GEORGE N. BE.-VMER presided as cliairman of the House of Delegates, policy-making body of the Indiana State Bar .-\ssn., at the recent annual meeting in Chicago. 
JOE WHALEN has purchased the Tangney in­terest in Tangney-McGinn, Inc., and been named president, director and chief executive officer of that company and become a corporate partner with the McGinn family in the operation of a new 
— enterprise. Parkway Inns, Inc. He left his position 
Vof the past nine years as manager of the Hotel Fort Dcs Moines on Oct. 15. 
1930 
Dcvcrc Plunkctt 0*Shaughncs5y Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
From the Alumni Office: 
THOMAS A. KEEGAN, the Rockford lawjer, was inducted as a fellow of the American College of Trial Law>'ers at recent ceremonies in San Fran­cisco, attended by such leading legal personalities as Justice Brennan of the U.S. Supreme Court, Lord Parker of Waddinglon, lord chief justice of England, and Gov. Edmund Brown of California. Member­ship in the college is considered one of the highest honors in American jurisprudence. It is limited to one per cent o{ the attorneys in a state. 
1931 
0 James T. Doyle 805 W. Arcadia Ave. Arcadia, Calif. 
From the Alumni Office: 
The rumors were quickly scotched by the ol' ^naster, but sports writers had fun for a while with reports from a New Orleans newspaper that heax-y­
it-eight champion Sonny Liston was wooing FRANK LEAHY as his manager. Frank seems to be happy where he is in San Diego, Calif. 
1932 
James K. Collins 
2982 Torrington Rd. 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 
From the Alumni Office: 
HARRY C. BURGER has been made general manager of the INSUROCK Division (plastics) of the Richardson Company, whose plastics plants are now being incorporated into one new modern plant in DeKalb, IH. Harr>-'s new address is 9l2 S. Seventh St., St. Charles, III. 
National columnists Inez Robb and Earl .Aronson got on the bandwagon as promoters of RAY GEI-GER's 146*year-old Farmer's .-Mmanac. Ray, now u-orking on a book, **T7ie Best from the Farmer's Almanac," lists Pope John XXIH among the Almanac's fans. The seer of Lewiston, Me., in­cidentally, predicts a rough winter. 
NEIL HURLEY continues to delight Chicago society editors with his picturesque farm in Huntley, 
III. Items of its development include a new swim­ming pool and bathhouse, heliport, Swiss chalet, huge bam, pri^'atc lake, houseboat and man-made island. The open houses there always prompt big picture splashes on the ladies' pages. 
1933 
John A. Hoyt, Jr. 
Gillespie & O'Connor 
342 Madison Ave. 
New York 17, N.Y. 
CHARLIE FARRIS, who has been active in Class affairs for many years, has consented to act as General Chairman of our 30th Reunion — now offi­cially scheduled for the weekend of June 14, 15 and 16, 19G3. In taking this important class assignment Charlie will have to rearrange much of his busy schedule at the St. Louis Redevelopment .\u(hority, where he scr\'es as executive director. It is hoped that those he calls upon for help in the coming months will willingly cooperate. 
In June, 1963, there will be Class Reunions of the Classes from 1913 down to 1958. These Classes will return to the campus during the closing month of the greatest fund raising effort in Notre Dame's financial history-. Jim Armstrong has asked that these Reunion Classes "spearhead the pro­gram" to bring alumni participation up to an all-time high and thereby stimulate those Classes run­ning behind. Full particulars and class figures arc detailed in a Reunion Class letter. 
DICK HOSTENY, who we recently noted was now residing in La Grange, HI., advises that he has retired from the F.B.I, after 23 years of service. Dick is now with the Cook County State's At­torney's Office. He is the proud father of ten children — five boys and five girls. 
ED ROX.AS, Jtriling Irom Madrid, where he 
•spent the past summer with his wife and five children, corrects an earlier alumni office report that he had transferred his business interests from ^fanila to New York. The previous New York address was merely that of his U.S. representative. He keeps in touch with his former roommate. MARV HUOT, in Kankakee, UK and KARL VOGELHEIM of Rogers City, Mich. Ed sends his warm regards through this column to his school friends. 
HAROLD POHLAfEYER sends early word that he plans on attending our Reunion. Harold is con­troller for Kaiser Refractories in the central area of the States — with headquarters in ^[exico, Missouri. 
MAURICE J. SCANLON, continuing his career in the State Dcpt,, is now stationed at the Amer* ican Consulate at Hong Kong. 
FATHER FRANK GARTLAND, C.S.C., after many fruitful years as editor of the "Catholic Boy»** is now director of vocations at North Easton, Miss. 
DOUG GIORGIO noitr practiciag in £\-ansviI[e. Ind., was recently elected president of the Indiana State Society of Anesthesiologists. 
JERRY GREER writes that he will be at the Reunion. Jerry lives in Hinsdale, lU., and is divisional sales manager of the Constmcti'on Equip­ment Division of International Harvester at Melrose Park, III. He sends greetings to BILL LYNCH back in New York. 
JOHN LEVSTIK during the past several years has been engaged in recruiting at Notre Dame for mechanical engineers for his finn, Chicago Bridge & Iron Co., which Is now located at Oak Brook, HI. 
JIM UPRICHARD sends regards. He reccnUy moved from Lake%vood, Ohio to 20289 Marian Lane, Rocky River, Ohio. 
The .-Mumni Office has sent us the following ad­dress changes —DANIEL J. ROLFS. W6 Valdcz PI., Stanford, Calif.; JOHN W. JAEGER. 20 Unges Drive, Pittsburgh 17, Pa.; JOHN H. BARB.V 2ETTE, 3025 Round Hill Drive. Alamo, CaliL Word from them would be welcome. 
PETE CONNELLY was on the phone recently and reported that he was busy in the practice sf law in the Rochester area. We arc looking fon*-ard to his %*isit to New York where he has a matter on appeal. Our guess Is that he will be first in line at the June Reunion. 
Ran into ED ECKERT while \isiting in Albany recently. His oldest daughter^ Sally, is being mar­ried in late June. He expects, however, to be free for the Reunion — perhaps use it as a wann-up 
ior the wedding. 
Inquiries have come in concerning MARION BLAKE, ROL.4ND DAMES, FRANK DeCLERK and FRED MACBETH. We hope a reminder of such inquiries will arouse some word from all of llicm. 
From the Alumni office we learn that NORM DUKE is now living in ^faitIa^d, Fla-
FATHER MAUREY POWERS, C.S.C., after dis­tinguished service as an Army chaplain (Lt. Col.), is now stationed at St. Afary's Cathedral in Austin, Texas. He celebrated his Silver Jubilee in the priesthood in .August, The Jubilee celebration and tributes to Father Powers ^verc widely reported by the Associated Press. For those who may have missed the story "Lead Scout of God," we repeat in part as reported by the wire service; "Steel helmet and dusty olivc-batile uniform marked him a soldier. . . . Standing on the frozen bank of the Yalu River he thanked God in Mass for the safety of his 28,000 men. . . . No one asked him his faith; the%- only asked his understanding. 
"Did they knou* he was decorated for heroism beyond the call of duty in France; that he was stair chaplain to General Clay in Berlin; that he was Central Command staff chaplain under General MacArthur in Japan. There was no sign of five Bronze Stars of valor, no evidence of eleven cam­paign battle stars won in combat. . . . 
"Who x.^ he? He is FATHER PO^VERS, the priest-chaplain you are honoring today in the living symbol of his priesthood — another Christ as he celebrates a silvered memory of his devotion in the ser\*ice of his God, his Country, and his people of St. Mar>''s Cathedral in Austin, Texas^ and at these privileged places where his immediate family and friends, in Heaven and on earth, will gather to join him at the majestic Sacrifice of the Mass in thanksgiving and in the sweet benediction of hope through years to come until taps are souaded to report to his Commanding General, Jesus Christ, and pass in stately review for the pinning of a new citation. The Aforning Star of Eternal Life." 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to PAT CROWLEY on his ap­pointment to the Law SchooPs Advisory Council; and to LES R.-\DDATZ, formerly of NBC and the Ralph Edwards Productions staff, now on the na­tional editorial staff of TV Guide as a writer for the West Coast bureau. And official apologies to JIM ASH, whose name was Inexcusably omitted from the 1933 Reunion Roster, but whose address is clear and legible in the office: Ash Advertising, 226 West High Street, P.O. Box 724, Elkhart, Indiana. 
1934 
T. Edward Carer 223 Ebmraod Rd. Rockr River 16, OUa 
From the Alumni Office: LARRY LICAI.2I. as director of sales for the plush Aristocrat Iniu of the Chicago area, continues 

Notre Dame Alumntts^ Year End, 1962 35 
lo turn out very slick direct mail promotions for the Ascot House, Essex Inn and Avenue Motel downtown, and the Acres Moiel on the North Side. 
A recent listing of X.D. men with the Babcoclc & Wilcox Company put JAMES C. FESLER at the top in seniority, although Jim has long since quit Alliance, O., and gets las mail at Bumbrac Farm in Lyndiburg, Va. 
1935 
Franklyn Hochreiier 
702 Scarlet Dr. 
Towson 4, Maryland 
From the Alumm Office: Congratulations to HARRY D. GAFFNEY, co-founder, headmaster, and teacher of history and ci«cs at a ncv*' secondary school, Lee Academy, Lee, Mass. With a master's degree from American International College in Springfield, Mass., Harr>* has been a teacher and coach for several New 
England high schools and, most recently, Nichols College of Business Administration, Dudley, Mass. A special bouquet to an elder statesman of the 

Class, L-^WRENCE W. BARBER, and his uife of 50 — yes, 50 — years. Mr. and Mrs. Barber, formerly of South Bend and now of Bradcnton, Fla., celebrated their golden wedding anmversar>­in South Bend last summer. A teacher at Central High School for many years after his belated A.B., 
he retired in 1950. And a bow to FR.^XIS .\N"THONY DL*NN as grandparent of Jane Dunn Lcincnweber. bom to his daughter Gcraldine and HARRY LEINENWEBER, *59. in Jolict, 111. \V.-\LTER T. POWERS, the Cleveland advertiser, visited the campus %viih his mother and brother, REV. RICa^RD J. PO^\•ERS, S.J., '43, this past summer. Staying the week end, Walter ser\cd Mass for his brother in a campus chapel before returning to Cleveland, where the Powerses have four chil­dren. 
1936 
Joseph J. Waldron 70 Black Rock Road Yardley, Pennsylvania 

From AUGUST "SONNY" CHURCH comes word that thb summer SAL "DUKE" DUCAS.^, from Panama, was in New York with a daughter, Maria. He has another daughter, Mariella, critical­ly ill in New York Hospital, with Hodgkin's Disease. Prayers from all classmates are asked for her recover^*, hope for which is bleak. 
Sonnv had Sal out to Plainfield for a visit. He rounded up JOE COSTA and S.ABBY BONET for a session. (Sec picture of Sabby, Duke and Sonny, with Sonny more furr>' atop than the others.) 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn P.O. Box 275 tak e Lenape Andovcr, New Jersey 

From the Alumni OfBcc: From Sprtngdalc, Conn., comes word that EDWARD J. GASXOX has been elected «ce­president and operations manager for the Machlett Laboratories, Inc., a subsidiary of Raytheon Com­pany, Mantifacturing manager since I9H, Ed is nou* responsible for over-alt manufacturing activity and will tvork with the Machlett president on plans and polic>-. He attended John Marshall Law School in Cleveland after K.D. Former zone board chair­man, now trustee of St. Francis of Assisi Church and Little League agent, Ed lives at Katydid Lane, Weston, Conn., with Mrs. G- (the former Rita 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
S.\L "DUKE" DUCASA, '36 (center), a 
visitor from Panama, enjoys an off-year reunion ^vith classmates Sebastian "Sabby** Bonet (left) and August "Sonny" Church at the latter^s home in Plainfield, N. J., in spite of tragic circimistances involved in his trip to the U.S. (See 1936 column for details.) Classmate G. S. Costa was aboard but absent from picture. 
Kurd of Lakewood, O.) and five children: Maureen, 21; Michael, 20; Elizabeth, 15; Thomas, 9; and Marv Frances, 6. 
Lt. Col. CHARLES G. ROGGENSTEIN, once .Army Intelligence chief for Southeast Asia on the staff of Generals MacArthur and Ridgeway in Tok>-o 1950-53. is now professor of militar>- science at Niagara University. A native of Rockville Centre, L.I., he took grad work at Columbia, and entered the .-Vrmy in 1941, served with the Third .\rmy in all the European campaigns, including Normandy, Northern France, Germany, Ardennes and Central Europe, winning his Combat Infantrv'­man's Badge and two decorations for valor. Dis­charged, he was recalled for intelligence work in 1948, served in Washington and all over the Pacific before being assigned to Niagara in 1959. He lives at 4840 Eddy Drive, Lcwiston, N. Y., with wife Elaine and three children, Carol .-Vnn, Joan Marie, and Charles, Jr. 
Since last report JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR., has gone from development for Fairleigh Dickinson U. to Rcmsclacr Polytechnic Institute (Manhattan ofHce) and now is vice-president for development at Georgian Court College (for women), Lakewood, 
N. J. But Zcke maintains the old homestead at 
HAROLD F. L.^'GTON, '38, sho«-n botli as an N.D. trackman anti as he appears today as a high school coach mth his viife and one of nine children, has invented a new type of pole vault standard with a crossbar that replaces itself automatically. Patented last April and now in produc­tion, the device "hreaks" in the center if brushed, dips doK-n and returns. The Langtons live in Pleasant\-ille, N. J. 
936 Broad St., Clifton, N. J., with Guittc and the children. Georgian Court is operated by the Sisters^ of Mero-. % 
1938 
Bumie Bauer 1139 Western Avenue South Bend 25, Ind. 

Stop! Before you read another word, get an 
envelope, address it to me right now, stick a ten­
spot or a check for same made out to the Notre 
Dame class of 1938 into it for prcregisiration to 
our Silver Anniversary reunion next June, and 
mail it, now! Go ahead, I'll \vait; in fact I'll 
thumb through the Dome tr\*ing to imagine how 
some of you look now with hair that is distinguish­
ingly gray or cxtinquished. Okay? 
Got that done? Wonderful, and that's what 
you^U be saying when you see what we've got in 
store for you at our 25th class reunion ne.\t June. 
Local '38-ers have met three times already, at 
CHUCK SWEENEY'S and DON HICKEY's homes 
and after spirited discussions that several times uient 
on the rocks, ED CRONIN was named General^ 
Chairman, and NELSON VOGEL, Buck Prirate,^ 
(Treasurer, that is) of all those $10-bills you 
just mailed in for prcregistration. The $10 is 
needed for extra goodies, entertainment and ice 
cubes for HUB KlRCHMAN's quinquennial bath 
in Rockne Memorial. Don Hickcy drove into 
Chicago with me one day to discuss reunion plans 
xvith FIUNK 0'L.\UGHLIN, LEX SKOGLUND 
and FRANK PRUSH.\ over lunch at the Chicago 
.Athletic Club. DAN GIBBS couldn't make it but 
sent in his ideas. I later saw Dan at the Purdue 
game and also TED FL.\NIG.AN from Buffalo with 
charming wife and handsome son Jim, who is a 

freshman this year. On way back from Chicago 
Don and I stopped to sec BILL RILEY at his bank 
in East Chicago. Also got some suggestions from 
JOHN CLIFFORD when lie and wife Gertrude 
brought their son John down to enter N.D. from 
St. Paul, where John is a manufacturers* repre-^ 
sentativc. John suggested that regional chairmen be 
set up, and to get this under way CHUCK SWEENEY volunteered to meet with classmates in the \'arious cities he travels to as National League football field judge each week. John also sug­gested that each one of you write to five other class­mates in his area to arrange coming to the re­union together. Will you do it? 
Got a letter from DICK SCANNELL in Fair­field, Conn., telling mc he read of JERRY KASZ being made vice-president and general manager of Boeing International Aircraft Corp. Not that I doubted Dick's word, but my wife Hclenc and I and nine cliildren drove out to Seattle and verified the report, as any good card-carrying (credit card ^ that is) reporter would do^ Verification includec* a patio dinner for the whole Bauer tribe at hb executive mansion, presided over by his First Lady Katie (Irisher and cuter than Jackie) and three daughters fair. Also had lunch with JerrN- at the Scrra dub. The next day CHARLIE OSBORN, who is president of the Seattle Boy Scout Council and has pioneered some successful ad\'ance programs in the Explorer Scouts division, interrupted his law practice to take me to lunch. Incidentally, as long as we were out there wc visited my mother, brother and sister, plus several cousins, the Seattle W^orld Fair and the National Liturgical Conference. 
On returning to South Bend, I got the shockinc news that PAT McCARTY had died of a heart attack in .August in his home in Toledo wlith taking a nap on a Saturday afternoon. Pat had recovered from an earlier attack some 19 months previous and was back to work with a concrete firm which he joined after manv years of hig^v scliool coaching. JOHN HURLEY, Class of '2-' secretary', sent me clippings of the tributes paid Pat and details of a benefit football game betweei' Central Catholic, his alma mater, and Clcvelant. Benedictine (won by Central 16-8) which raiscc over $5,000 for Pat's wife Margaret and their nlnt children: Patricia, 23; Thomas, 23; Kathleen, 18; Joseph, 17; Mar\-, 15; Daniel, 14; Ann, 11; Michael. 6; and Matthew, 2. If anyone Wjuld like to help Pat's family by sending a dollai or more for a program of the benefit game, mail it to John P. Hurlc>-, 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo 6, Ohio. P:^ : was named on several AIl-American teams as Ccnte™ 
in 1937 and played 40 minutes in the All-Star game 
^against the Green Bay Packers, who were just as 
^toug h then as today. Pat turned down a pro offer from the Packers to enter high school coaching where his good influence on boys earned him the gratitude of the comunity, Jim Mac Donald, sports editor of the "Toledo Times," said his *'greatest loves in life were his family, his religion and football." He could, and should, have added *'Xotrc Dame.'* Happier news came in the mail from DON SMITH and PHIL KIRCH. Don wrote from Colorado Springs, where a year ago he became traflic engineer after being In a similar position in Miami, Fla., since the war. Don worked for Scars in Battle Creek, Mich., after graduation until enlisting in the Xavy in 1941. He went through Pcnsacola, ser\"ed in Central and South Atlantic 
^an d finished in the Pacific, where he ran into ED BREXNAN and FATHER BOLAND. He saw JIM RAGNEY also in Florida but not a. classmate since he got out as a Lieutenant. Don married a Georgia peach in 1950 and is an inveterate sports car fan, racing his own Jag until he went West. Don, who was one of DOC COONEY's journalism proteges, is planning on coming to the 25tli Reunion 
— the first time back in twenty-five years! It will be wonderful to see you, Don. 
PHIL KIRCH writing on Union Bank, Los Angeles, stationery (a fringe benefit, no doubt) says that if he can get GENE VASLFTTE and a few other '38-ers in "Smogsville" to come along he'll be at the 25th reunion. Which means they're as good as here, because Gene said he was 
^coming. Phil worked for a number of years with 
^th c J. L Case Co. in Davenport, Iowa, before being lured out West w*here he lives at 721 Enchanted Way, Pacific Palisades, Calif., with wife Lorraine and sons Michael (20), Ste%'cn (14) and Mar>* Madeline (10). Phil sa>-s he has seen NICK LA.MBERTO, BOB SHEA, and JOHN BEER on occasion, and has stocked the larder for CH.ARLIE CALLAHAN, and any others who are going to the So. Cal. game. 
JACK SCOTT, former South Bend mayor and now publisher of the Lafayette "Journal and Courier," had to wrench his loyalties a bit, but he came up with a good job ser\*Ing as toastmastcr for the Purdue annual kickoff luncheon. However, JOE KUH.\R1CH isn't blaming the Purdue score on 
Jack. 
It turned out to be a small world the other day when a sales trainee from the Precision Chemical 
PPump Co. of Waltham, Mass., assigned to work with my sales organization arrived and turned out to be DICK MOLLER's son, also Dick. Young Dick, a Colgate man (tsk, tsk), said his Dad is xice-p resident in charge of marketing for the Hudson Pulp and Paper Co. of New York and is planning on personally seeing that RIGGIE Di-BRIENZA, GENE DOLAN, JOE a\LL.\HAN, GENE SMITH and CAS VANCE get to our re­union on time. Rah! Young Dick says he has another brother, 14, and two sisters, 21 and 12. 
From the Alumni Office; Congratulations to County Prosecutor JOHN A. CAIN of Cheboygan, Mich., recently elected presi­den t of the Prosecuting Attorneys Assn. of Michi­gan at the annual convention held at the Grand Hotel on Mackinac Island. John was first vice-president last year and addressed the convention as incoming president. The only unopposed Republi­can running for re-election, he was also recently elected president of the Cheboygan County Lawyers Assn. 
And also too HARVEY G. FOSTER, nominated by the University for the Sports Illustrated Maga­zine Silver Anniversary All-America. With the FBI since 1939, Harvey advanced in the Bureau from one responsible assignment to another, became Special Agent in Charge of the FBI's largest field office in New York City. Past president of the N.D. Alumni Assn., Har\'ey might have blown the final picks by resigning for private business in Phoenix, Ariz., but he richly deserved the nomination. 
In Sept., the New York "Times" started giving big play to the protests of Ambassador WILLIAM 
fP. MAHONEY, JR., that "unfounded charges and 
distortions'* about the United States In the Ghana­ian press should cease In the best interests of Ghanaian-American relations. Tlie newspapers of Accra had hinted U.S. complicity in recent bomb attempts to assassinate President Kwame Nkrumah, with whom Bill has established very cordial relations. 
Earlier, Bill sent a circular letter to friends In the 
U.S. He warned that the contents were not for publication, but we're sure he wouldn't mind our quoting a portion dealing with his family: "Alice 
^ d the children have made the transition very %ell. The greatest burden by far ^vas on Alice. 
ROGKFORD — '"^Vearing of the Greens/' annual golf outing and banquet of the Rockford Club last August, had such celebs at the head table as (l.-r.): Jim Cooncy, '59, of the Notre Dame Foundation; John Lujack, '48, Davenport, la.; Charles Lueckc, '51, 
1962 N. D. Man of the Year, Freeport, HI; Chairman Jim Dunn, '39, and Club Prc^dcnt Al Carroll, '22, in conference; Chicago's George Connor,*48; and (standing) Bill Fischer, '49. 
Her strong San Francisco background put her in good stead. By the way, she recently made a call on Madame Fathia Nkrumah, whom she found a completely charming woman. The only difficulty I have with my wife is that she is occasionally mistaken for another daughter. And the Ghana­ians, who idolize children, cannot get over the fact that she is the mother of seven. .-Xctually, as I modestly told the President, he Is getting nine emissaries for the price of one. 
"The children arc all entering local schools this September, contrary to the custom of the diplomatic set, most of whom send theirs to boarding schools in Europe. We feel that ours should be on the scene throughout our stay for many good reasons, personal, diplomatic and others. Besides, living in Africa is a good part of their education. Bill will enter Achimota, a fine prep school which has pro­duced most of Ghana's leaders. He will live with the Africans, eat their chop, sleep on boards, and get a good education In the process, Gladys and Mary will attend the International School, and the four midgets will go to Christ the King, a paro­chial school near our residence." 
^fore from Bill about his fascinating life as a diplomat in the President's Letter on the back 
1939 
James N. Motschall 
Singcr-Motschall Crp. 
10090 West Chicago 
Detroit 4, Michigan 

From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to Lx\WRENCE D. BENEDICT of Tarrytown, N. Y., veteran advertising and marketing executive and former senior product manager for Lever Bros., elected president and director of Ainvick Brands, Inc., newly formed con­sumer marketing subsidiary of Airkem, Inc., which Is taking over the Air%vick home freshener line from Lever Bros. In 1963. Before joining the Lever Bros, family, Larry was vice-president of several adver­tising agencies, including Dancer, Fitzgerald, Sam­ple, Inc., and Donahue & Coe. Tlie rough row ED SLMONICH has had to hoe was given national attention by UPI recently. The story, with a very good picture, said in part that Ed, football coach for the Montana School of Mines Orediggers, *'has one of football's toughest coach­ing jobs — emotionally, at least. His team hasn't won a game since 1953, a total of 40 consecutive games. Football is an extracurricular activity and classroom work Interfered with football all season long. A 6-foot-2, 250-poundcr from Notre Dame, 
SImonich played a season with the Chicago Bears and has had a highly successful coaching career with high schools and small colleges in Montana and Iowa." 
The New York "Journal-American" gave a big play to LL.B. HARVEY FOSTER'S resignation from the FBI. It said in part: "Special Agent Harvey Foster, a graying man with tlun lips and kno%ving eyes, will resign Oct. 30 after four years as the head of the FBI's New York City office. . . . (He) covered this city. Long Island, and almost to Albany with a swift, quiet precision that bagged murderers, smugglers, swindlers, spies and traitors . . . His office ^vorked closely with the city police and he made frequent speeches advising the com­munity how to prevent crime. .. . He served on the executive committee of the Greater New York Council of Boy Scouts and was chairman of Its Health and Safety Council. 
"Mayor Wagner said of him . . . *Mr. Foster is an outstanding man, an outstanding law enforce­ment officer. He has made many contnbutions to the upholding of justice that will be long re­membered. . . .* Tlie 50-year-old FBI agent lives in Parkchester with his wife, the former Mable Mahler. Their t^vo sons, John, 20, and Daniel, 19, are in college. . . . Mr. Foster will join the Dallas Smith Corp., an auto distributor, in Arizona. , . ." 
Congratulations to DONALD O'MELIA and RICHARD O'MELIA, whose admission to practice before the U.S. Court of Claims in Washington, D.C., ^\'as featured pictorially by the alumni magazine of Marquette University, where Don and Dick took their law. Don practices in Rhine­lander. Wis., and Dick is associate director of the Bureau of International .Affairs of the Chdl Aero­nautics Board in Washington. 
1940 
James G. Bnnm 
144 East 44tli Street 
New YoA, N. Y. 

From the .-Murani Office: Congratulations and thanks are due from the Class and the entire Alumni .Assn. to WALTER FLEMING, the Dallas manufacturer and Re­publican politico, for his service of the past four years on the national Alumni Board as a director, committee chairman, president and honorary presi­dent. The honorary presidency of the past year became a little more th:m honorary when his presi­dential successor, friendly enemy BILL MAHONEY, '38, u*as made a U.S. ambassador by the Democratic administration. Walter filled in with much of the 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 1962 37 
presidential detail work impossible for "the Honor­able T-Bonc" in Africa. Walt's long serx-ice will end officially in Januarv*. but wc know he will con­tinue to be devoted to all things of N.D., especi­ally^ with children in school on botli sides of the Dixie Highway. Thanks also to AValt's wife Elizabeth, behind whose unassuming chann many suspect is the real brains of the Fleming operation. 
1941 
James F. Spcllman 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
From West DcPere, ^Visconsin, comes an en­graved card: "The Reverend D. M. Burke, O.Praem., President, on behalf of the Board of Trustees and the Board of Governors of St. Norbert College, announces the appointment of JOHN S. MacCAULEY as Vice-President for Development, effective October 1, 1962." At St. Xorb's, a co­ed liberal arts college run by the Xorbertincs or Canons Regular of Premontrc, John will be in touch with PAUL HORNUXG and other alumni in the area. The school should benefit greatly from the know-ho\^' derived from John's eight years as an assistant director of the N.D. Foundation. He will direct all public relations and development activi­ties of the college, drawing abo on eight years' experience with his own public relations firm be­fore joining the N.D. dc\clopmcnt stafT. 
PATRICK JOSEPH MULLIG.^', JR., formeriy vice-president and general sales manager of the Murray Ohio ^^anufacturing Co., Nashnlle, Tenn., was elected executive vice-president, succeeding alumnus ^\^LLIAM M. HAXXON, '43, who be­came president, and succeeded in his old position by a third N.D. man, W. C. "BILL" KEYES, '42. 
P.J. (or "Joe") Mulligan is a Cleveland native and Cathedral-Latin grad. A former Xa\y officer, he joined Murray in 1346, became sales manager of the bic\-clc division in 1954, general sales manager in 1955 and added the vice-president responsibility in 1956. He makes his home in Nashville with his wife and six cliildrcn. Joe is chairman of the Bic>'cle Manufacturers .Assn., has local member­ships in the Chamber of Commerce Sales Executive Council and Hillwood Country- Club. 
DR. JOHN WALSH was named as one of six corporate members to the post of "Senior Scientist" at the Sv-stem Development Corporation, Santa Monica, Calif., in a new professional classiBcation program. With a Ph.D. in math and statistics from Princeton, he was cited as one of six of more than 2,000 SDC personnel whose "significant contributions to science and technology"' rate the classification. He joined the corporation in 1958, is on the math staff of the Center for Research in System Sciences, and is completing Volume II of his "Handbook of Nonparametric Statistics." 
SAMUEL J. NIELD has been appointed manag­er of the newspaper dixision for "Tliis W^ck Maga­zine," responsible for the Sunday supplement's news­paper contacu and infonnation scr\ices provided for its 43 metropolitan newspapers with a com­bined circulation of more than 14,400,000. Widely known in advertising, he has had more than 15 years' experience in publishing, including sL\ years on the sales staff of the "Ladies Home Journal" and nine years with "Better Homes & Gardens." Sara and his wife reside in Old Greenwich, Conn. He's a member of the ^fetropolitan Advertising Golf Assn. and has held such golfing championships as the New England .Amateur, Rhode Island Open and Amateur, and the Indiana State Intercollegiate. 
1942 
William M. Hickey 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 

TOM DEGNAN writes — "Reunion recollections: DON HOGAN singing 'Do, Re, Mi' at 3 a.m. at Mornsey Hall. CHARLES (TEX) MacFARLANE studying for his law degree at N.D., after spend­ing many years in Saudi Arabia as an engineer with Aramco. JOE SPOHR, BERNIE BIEHL and I playing bridge as we did on Sunday, De­cember 7, 1941, when Pearl Harbor was announced. 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End, 2962 
FREEWHEELING ALUMNI of the Forties have steadily roUcd to the top positions of the largest producer of bicycles, juvenile wheel goods and electric window fans. Directors at a board meeting of Murray Ohio Manufacturing Co., Nashville, Tenn., elected (l.-r.): Bill Hannon, '43, president; Joe Mulligan, '41, executive vice-president to succeed Bill; and Bill Keycs, '42, \-ice-prcsidcnt and general sales manager to succeed Joe. AU arc World War II vets and former Clevelandcrs, the company having moved to Tennessee from that city five years ago. Besides the Nashville executive and sales offices, Murray Ohio employs 2,500 at its Lawrcnceburg, Tenn., plant. See 1941-2-3 columns for details. 
FRANK VEIT sat in for BOB BEAUMONT, who didn't attend. WALT CORDES planned to attend but was busy being transferred from his job as ass't. plant manager of DuPont's East Chicago plant to dinsion head of research labs in Wilmington, Delaware. BOB COLEMAN Is a man of many interesu, including being chairman of the board of the bill Company and owning a small share of the Desert Inn in Las Vegas. Speaking of Vegas, big MIKE HYNES is a prominent Iaw\er there. BILL MARSHALL, an engineer, is now a partner in a law firm in Chicago specializing in corpora­tion and patent law, BILL M.\DDEN owns t%vo exclusive women's apparel shops, one in Lake Placid and one in Fort Lauderdale." 
JI.M DOYLE writes: "EMMETT KEENAN, my partner and I arc still on a speaking basis — so that's not news. Emmctt Keenan had lunch with DON FIEGEL Tuesday, and that's not news. But Keenan and I did sec J.ACK BERGEN in Omaha while at a convention in June. .-Xt the reunion, when they look up a collection for Masses for our deceased members, I put a check in made out to 'Cash for Masses.' The check cleared the bank so I know our fund this year has at least a dollar in it — which is progress. I think we have a great bunch of officers for the next five years. Too bad that President JIM O'NEAL can't devote more time to the office. The Ficgcls got together with the DON MARTINS in Chicago in September. C/VRROLL PITKIN spent a short time with Don in Davenport a couple of weeks ago." 
JIM O'NEAL writes — "The only thing I can send along at this minute is the recommendation that a note of appreciation to our class secretary' be included in the Class news," (Ed. Note: See October issue. J. L.) From the Alumni Office: 
In a game of N.D. alumni musical cliairs, W. C. *'BILL" KEYES, formerly assistant general sales manager of Nashville (Tenn.) Murray Ohio Manu­facturing Co., was elected vice-president and general sales manager, succeeding P. J. **JOE" MULLI­GAN, '41, who in turn became executive vice-president succeeding WILLIAM M. "BILL" HAN­NON, '43, who was elected president to succeed his father, C. W. Hannon. Like Mulligan, Bill Keyes is a native of Cleveland, O., and a graduate of Cathedral-Latin High. A Na\y submariner in World War II, he joined Murray in 1946 with Joe Mulligan, moved up to sales promotion manager of the wheel-goods division in 1954, sales manager of that dixision in 1956, and assistant general sales manager later that same year. Bill lives in Nash­ville with his wife and three children, is a member of the Nashville Chamber of Commerce, Hillwood Country Club, etc. 
In late September JAMES £. FRICK of Ambler, Pa., became an assistant general attorney of the Reading Railroad. Jim, who followed up hts N.D. training at the U. of Pcnns>'K-ania Law Sfihool, joined the Reading as personnel assistant in 1951. 
EUGENE F. HUNT has been elected a vice-president and appointed creative director at Kct­diiun, MacLeod & Grove, Inc., Pituburgh adver­tising and public relations agenc>'. Gene began his career with the agency in 1955 as a copy writer after having been associated with Hicks & Greist^ in New York and Batten, Barton, Durstine S: Osbom, Inc., in Cleveland. He became copy super­visor in 1956 and creative supervisor in 1960. 
REV. PAUL E. WALDSCHMIDT, C.S.C, was named president of the University of Portland in September. Vice-president of the Oregon institution since 1955, he succeeded REV. HOWARD J. KEN­NA, C.S.C., '26, when Father Kenna became pro­rincial superior of the Holy Cross Fathers* Indiana Province, whicli operates the school. A native of Evansville, Ind., Father Waldschmidt had doubled as dean of faculties, headed the committee on ad­missions and academic standing and the athletic board of control, and scrx'cd as director of inter­national students. Ordained In 1946. he studied at Laval Univ. in Quebec and the ,\ngclicum in Rome, where he got his S.T.D. He was a professor of Theology at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C.;^ for six years before going to Portland. 
1943 
Jack M^ggms 5125 Briggs Avenue La Grescenta, Calif. 

From the .\lumni Office: WILLLAM M. H.ANNON, formerly executive vice-president of the Murray Ohio ^tanufacturi^g Company, Nashville, Tenn., has been elected presi­dent to succeed his father, C. W. Hannon. P. J­MULLIGAN, '41, succeeded Bill as exec, while W. C. KEYES, '42, moved into Mulligan's job as vice-president and general sales manager in an all-alumni shuffle. BILL H.ANNON started with Murray In sales in 1946 and became sales manager for the wheel-goods division In 1949. In 1954 he was made assistant to the president and a director. He was elected executive vice-president In 1956 am" put in change of manufacturing operations Ii Lawrenceburg, Tenn. As president, Bill will main­tain offices both at the Lawrenceburg factorv* anc: Nashrille headquarters. He is on the board o: sovernors of tlie Tennessee Manufacturers Assn., JA . director of the First National Bank of Lawrence" burg, a member of the local Lions Club and other civic organizations. WILLIAM L. WILSON teamed up with a former 
N.D. partner, RICHARD L. WHITING, '45, tc win the Port Huron Golf Club's Fall Round-Up Invitational Palmer Flight Title. Bill's 82 and Dick's 75 nosed out the opposition in their first round together in twenty' years. Bill, a native of Port Huron, Mich., played with Dick, from nearby Red Run, as a youngster. Both were tournament winners In their teens. The Port Huron Invit ^ tional was Bill's first try in 12 years because o P 
illness. He has been coaching golf at St. Stephen AHtg h for the past 10 years. ^ REV. RICHARD J. POWERS, SJ., teaching 
English at Cantsius College, Buffalo, N. Y., asked permission last summer to accompany his brother WALTER T. POWERS, '35, of Cleveland, and his mother on a trip to the N.D. campus. He was particularly interested because the Army and his Jesuit studies had kept him away for 20 years. Father Dick said Mass at Sacred Heart with his brother assisting and toured a campus which had undergone quite a transformation. 
ROBERT E. PALENCHAR is now vice-president for employee relations in the automotive division of the Budd Company. He assumed executive re­sponsibility for labor and personnel relations, wage and salary administration, safety, training and sug­
^gestion s^-stem programs last July I. Bob came to 
PBudd Automotive from Ex-Cell-O Corp., where he had been corporate director of industrial relations since 1938. A "cum laude" in economics, he worked in various industrial relations and personnel jobs before joining Ex-CcU-O as assistant di­rector of labor relations in 1949 and became di­rector in 1953. A member of several industry organizations. Bob lives in Xorthville, Mich., with his wife and two children, Patricia Ann, 17, and James L., 12. 
GERALD A. SMITH got his Ph.D. in English literature from the Johns Hopkins Univer3it>- in 1937, has since taught at the University of Rochester, and now is professor of English and acting chairman of the English department at State College at Geneseo, N. Y. 
»
A large group of fellow alumni backed ANTHO­
NY G. GIROLAMI in his bid for dcrk of the probate court in Chicago. Tliey sponsored a dinner in Tony's honor at JOHNNTi* LATTNER's restaur­ant on West Madison in the Loop. 
FATHER ANTHONY M. BROU7< succeeded Bishop-elcct RAYMOND G. HUNTHAUSEN 
(M.S.
 '53) of Helena, Mont,, as president of Helena** Carroll College. "Spotlighted" a couple of years ago as dean of men. Father Tony was also a schoolmate of the new president of the 

U.
 of Portland, REV. PAUL WALDSCHMIDT, C.S.C., '42, at Rolling Prairie Novitiate in 1938­


39. Congratulations to Fathers Brown and Wald­schmidt in their new presidencies. 
DR. FRANK L. KUNKEL, a member of the St. John's University faculty since 1949, has been named editorial director of the University press. Associate professor of English, Frank got his 
Ptnaster's and doctorate from Columbia and taught at N.D. He has authored many articles on litera­ture and in 1960 published "The Labyrinthine Wa\-s of Graham Greene," the first detailed study of the British Catholic novelist. 
Last but far from least, the disconcerting news that WILLIAM J. TRACY, surely the best-nosed model for Dt'ck Tracy and Fearless Fosdick, has left the New York office of the FBI for the cosmetics business. Bill has been appointed director of security for Revlon, Inc., and subsidiaries. Oper­ating out of the Edbon, N. J., Revlon plant, Bill expects to be conducting eye-shadow espionage all over the world. 
» 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Burlington Ave. Bradley Beach, N.J. 
Just a trickle of items across your Secretar>**s desk at this time. . . . BILL TALBOT reports the arriival of his first son, William B., IL on .August 13, 1962, and a recent visit from HAL HALEY and CHUCK PATTERSON. Bill is still with Eamucl French, Inc., the play publishing house in New York City. . . . WILLIAM J. ROGERS is now super\'isor for John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, operating a general agenc\' through northern New Jersey. . . . ED DRINK­ARD spent a short visit with the G. A. B.ARIS-CILLO's recently between business conferences at nearby Fort Monmouth on behalf of United Electro-Dynamics, Inc. of Alexandria. Ed is now customer services representative for United Earth Sciences Division of the company. He and Becky have been blessed with seven lovely children and Ed teaches |xth grade in the C.C.D. program in his local parish, and he also reports favorable news from 
MERVIN F. BAGAN, '41, LL.B. '42 SFO 'Copters, Free Enterprise in Action 
"Is Free Enterprise Dead?" Iieadlined the .San Francisco Examiner recently, and went on: "Are Government subsidies necessary to succeed in this age of the Federal hand­out?" As an answer, the Examiner pointed with pride to M.F. ("Mike") Bagan, presi­dent of San Francisco-Oakland Helicopter Airlines, Inc., who came to San Francisco two years ago not knowing a soul and: within six weeks raised $1,000,000; within nine months had SFO Helicopter Airlines, Inc., in action; and, within the past few months has put his air operation solidly in the black, the only helicopter line in the U.S. not subsidized by the Federal Government, ferrying nearly 500 passengers daily on his Golden Gate circuit from In­ternational .Airport to downtown Frisco, Berkeley, Oakland, Oakland .Airport and Sunny\*ale, Calif. 
A native of Estherville, Iowa, Mike Bagan worked summers in his father's men's clothing store on vacation from high school and Notre Dame. He was active in the Glee Club, Law Club and Commerce Forum while taking a Ph.B. in accounting and fol­lowing it up with a degree (cum laude) 
JOHN .MORRISON, who is wllh Republic Aviation. . . . During tlie summer HARRY YEATES dropped in for a wccic end and wc Iicard all about liis woric witli Geycr-MacAlIister Publications in X. Y. C. Harr>* is an editor for the .Art and Gift Buyer, a trade magazine published by hb company. . . . Again a reminder to begin thinking about our 20th Reunion a year from next June. . . . And a further reminder to please talce time and write a few lines for the column. 
From the Alumni Office: 
MICHAEL KIELY last spring reported for work as the new superintendent of parks and recreation for San Bruno, Calif. 
Noted in these pages for leading a Wgorous cam­paign of public education on constructive measures to counter the Communist threat, Lt. Commander FRANK VIGNOL.A was the subject of several recent nex%'s stories for another extracurricular interest, modes of survi\'al under enemy attack. The 
from the Law School. During World War 
II he served more than three years in the 
Navy's amphibious forces (Admiral's staff), 
emerging in late 1943 as a lieutenant. Mike 
returned to practice law in Chicago and 
Mason City, Iowa, specializing in tax cases 
and serving briefly as an Internal Revenue 
agent with the U.S. Treasury Dept. In 
1951 he became director of research for 
Texas' Central Airlines, doubling as legal 
counsel and top economic expert. From 
Central he went to Washington, first as 
trial attorney for the Biureau of Air Opera­
tions, then for six years as legal counsel 
and executive assistant to Col. Harmar 
Denny of the Civil Aeronautics Board. After 
the GAB he served a tough apprenticeship 
in helicopter pioneering as assistant to the 
president of Los Angeles Airways, Inc., 
where the multiplicity of transfer points 
made paying routes difficult to set up. 
Mike surveyed San Francisco and saw the 
magnificent possibilities of the Bay Area for 
limited transfer points and "chopper" routes 
99 per cent over water. But his big achieve­
ment was raising a quick million to finance 
his vision in that city of third-generation 
millionaires, scarce in risk capital. He set 
up offices in a refurbished Pan American 
hangar at San Francisco International; in­
vested in a fleet of three sturdy 10-pas­
senger Sikorsky S-62 turbocopters (safer 
and more powerful than piston-engine craft, 
they are the first turbine-powered com­
mercial craft in U.S. airline use); and 
started his string of tidy heliports, con­
veniently located miniature terminals. 
Dynamic and visionary, Mike promoted 
SFO with a vengeance — transfer agree­
ments with all major and trunlc airlines, 
posters, folders, children's excursions, sight­
seeing tours, and some famous passengers 
— gubernatorial candidates Pat Brown and Richard Nixon, Rosar>- crusader Father Pat Peyton, etc. He plans to increase his nearly 90 daily flights and expand to San Jose, Marin and Contra Costa counties, covering a 100-mile radius in the next year or two. After a year and a half of opera­tion, he already dreams of 100,000-pas­senger-a-day commuter service with 20 hundred-passenger "whirlybirds." 
Mike's wife is the former Mardianne Benedict (St. Mary's '42). They live in Piedmont, Calif., with eight children: Carol, 17; Mardianne, 15; Patrick, 13; Joseph, 11; Mary Jane, 7; Michele, 6; Noel, 5, and year-old James. Mike's brother-in-law is L. 
D. Benedict, N.D. '39, and his brother Earl was graduated in '41. 
Chicago area furniture dealer and Navy Reserve pilot got a lot of space in the Chicago press for his stmimer activities. To quote one Chicago Trib story: "Hidden in the murky Flotilla swamps was FRANCIS J. VIGNOLA of Melrose Park, without food or water and hunted by army military police. It was the Job of Vignola and 24 other naval officers to live off the land and to avoid capture by aggres­sors in a mock skirmish called 'Operation Alligator' in Florida's Ocala National Forest. Clad only in flight suits, they traveled by night through the marshes with the help of guerrilla forces and para­troopers, who were dropped into the forest. 'They didn't catch us,' said Vignola, home after his rug­ged w*eck in the wilderness. He now will teach 5urvi\'al and evasion methods to other pilots. 'We ate herbs, roots and foliage,' he explained. 'And I learned that turtle meat tastes delicious — just like veal.' Nevertheless, Vignola arrived back in Melrose Park 13 poimds lighter." 
THEODORE T. TOOLE, JR., has been elected 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
LT. CDR. FRANK VIGNOLA, H4, (left) Icams how to turn a gopher turtle into a jungle meal as part of "Operation Al­ligator," a month-long Army-Na\*y sur­\-i%-al-escape-evasion exercise in which reservists parachuted into Florida's Ocala National Forest and lived off the land while "escaping" through 80 miles of "cncmy-held" tcrritorj-. Frank teaches sur\i\*al as a "week-end warrior" at Glen-view Naval Air Station near Chicago. 
president and chief executive ofliccr of Singer-Fidelity, Inc., a leading producer of knitting ma­chinery* for the hosicr>" industrv*. Ted has been a \-icc-presidcnt of Singer-Fidelity since last spring and was formerly with Burlington Hosicrv' Co., Acclaim Hosiery Co., and the Hemphill Co., a manufacturer of hosiery knitting machines. A native of Columbus, O., Ted noiv makes his home in Wilton, Conn. His company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Singer Mfg. Co. 
1945 
Frank M. Linehan 
29 Burr Drive 
Dalton, Massachusetts 

Former Class Secretary AL LESMEZ has retired as president of the Notre Dame Club of New York. Quoting from the Club's Newsletter: ".Al moved the Club hard and true. The Trust Fund is on a firmer basis; we have a practical and attractive Club Directory, and membership reached a record. Thank you, Al, for all the hours of labor and eflfort you generouslv gave to Notre Dame here in New York." 
We of the Class of '45, having had the benefit of Al's leadership for ten years, pass on our con­gratulations for another job well done. What's next 
— retirement or the Alumni Board? 
Another former Class officer and a former presi­dent of the New York Club, JIM CLYNES, is busying himself as Democratic County Chairman of Tompkins (N.Y.) County. 
Congratulations to DR*. TOM BERGIN, Jesse H. Jones professor of business administration at N.D., on his being appointed a consultant of the Office of Planning and Research of the newly formed Area Redevelopment Administration in the U.S. Dept. of Commerce. 
BILL GRAFE reports in that they (the Grafcs) have moved into a larger house, to satisfy the space needs for a family with four children. Bill relocated in an area that Is more convenient to business. 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
HANK P.\YNE moved across town, also to Hins­dale. No addition — just a new home. 
BOB SNEE has been promoted to sales and merchandise manager of the sLx J. C. Penney stores in the Washington, D.C., area. He had been mana­ger of the Pontiac, Mich., store. Bob, Barbara and the seven cliildrcn arc living in Silver Spring, Md., and would like to hear from the N.D. men in the area. 
H.\RRY WALTERS, former assistant D..A. of Bronx (N.Y.) County, has moved to Bronx\-iIlc, in Westchester. J.\CK PALLET and wife Mar>' Kay announce the arrival of a daughter in .April after three boys. Jack has been in Nc%v Orleans with Owens-Illinois. 
Early this summer I had the opportunity while on a trip to Boston to stop ofT and see our presi­dent, JIM RETTER. Had a nice visit with Jim and his wife Flo in Necdham Heights. Tlie prcz is anxious that we start planning for our 20th — yes, 20 — to be held in '65. We are most anxious to have a real good reunion -— so if you have any comments, suggestions, ideas — pass them along. 
.Also in the same line —JIM DONNELLY is still collecting dues from our Class members. Had a chance to talk to Jim while I was in New York for the Class Secretaries and Club Presidents meet­ing last May. 
To all '45crs and their families — A Merry Christ­mas and Prosperous New Year. How about re­solving to write to the Class Secretary* in '63. 
From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to RICH.\RD L. WHITING of Red Run, Mich., on a recent golfing achievement. With his former N.D. golf team captain BILL WILSON, '43, Dick won the Port Huron, Mich., Golf Club's Round-Up Invitational Palmer Flight title. Dick and Bill first played together in Port Huron as children, and both were Micliigan golf champs in their teens. Dick Whiting won his first trophy, the Peck Handicap, at the Port Huron State Junior Championship in the Thirties, followed by the Junior District Medal Play championship. He was club champion at Red Run twice and once won the Detroit District championship. In the September Catholic Digest, an article en­titled "Christ's Plain-Clothes Men" described the activities of a group first called **The Family" which became the first all-male Secular Institute in North America, the Secular Institute of St. Pius X. Much of the article describes the work of one member, DR. A. BROCK LYNCH of Winchester, Mass. Brock, a surgeon and product of Yale Medical School, %vas an Air Force chief of surger\'. Now, having taken the full vows of the Institute, he is devoting his life and vocation to bringing Christ into the market place. ROBERT E. RIORDAN, export manager for Mishawaka's Wheelabrator Corp. since 1955, is now director of the firm's European operations, super­vising the company's expanding activities in the European Common Market. In September Bob located in Switzerland with his family. Co­ordinating the Mishawaka operation with Wheel­abrator interests in Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom and France (like Whcelabrator-Allevard in Le Cheylas), Bob will be on the con­tinent from three to five years. The firm won an "E-for-Export" Dept. of Commerce award last spring from President Kennedy, mostly through the eflorts of Bob's department. A native of Solomon, Kansas, Bob ser\'ed after graduation as vice-consul in Luanda, Angola, Portuguese West Africa, and at the .American Embassy in Welling­ton, New Zealand. He did grad work at the U. of Michigan in international economics and taught foreign trade at N.D. before rejoining the diplo­matic service in 1953 for two years at Recife, Brazil. A member of several International trade organizations as well ss Mishawaka's Rotar>* and 
K. of C , he is married to the former Angela Malloy of E\'anston, III. Tlie RIordans have five children: Mar>-, 10; Timothy, 9; Sheila, 8; William, 6; and an infant, Patrick. 
Air Force Lt. Col. EL.MER F. GILLESPIE was recently selected for a nine-month special graduate course in military medicine at The Walter Reed Institute of Research in Washington, D.C. Elmer is living in Silver Spring, Md., with wife Louiscne. 
FRANK R. BEAUDINE is now vice-president for operations with W, P. Fuller & Co., a paint and glass firm with headquarters in Fullerton, Calif. Frank, a Nav\- retread from the Class of '47, has ser\'ed with U.S. Rubber, McKinsey & Co., Montgomery Ward, and most recently as corporate manager of manufacturing at Indiana General Corp., Valparaiso, Ind. Frank, wife Martha and four children live in Brea, Calif. 
MOST REV. MARK G. McGRATH, GS.C, '44, (right) Auxiliary Bishop of Panama, received Our Lady of Guadalupe Medal, awarded by St. John's University for outstanding work in Pan-American relations, from Very Rev. Edward Burke, CM. (left), president of St. John's and Most Rev. John J. Boardman, Auxiliary Bishop of Brooklyn and director of the Society for the Propagation of the Faith, at an October convocation in Jamaica, _ New York. • 
1946 
Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 

Received word that a new baby girl just arrived at the TOM BURNS home. Tom is an insurance executive and lives with his lovely wife Joanne and their two other children, Terence Lee and Margaret -Anne, at 609 W. Plains, Clovis, New Mex­ico. ^ 
Would sure appreciate hearing from more mem-^ bers of the class of '46. 
From the Alumni Office: 
Tlic Class had at least a brushing acquaintance with one of the U.S. astronauts, .Mr Force Maj. NEIL R. G.\RL.\ND, a transfer student in 1945­46 who finally wound up ten years later with a degree from the U. of Colorado under Air Force auspices. With the Class depleted as it is, Secretary PETE RICHISKI may wish to hunt Neil down as at least an honorarv" member. 
1947 
Jack Miles 3218 Bcntlcy Lane South Bend, Indiana 

THE (RE)TURN OF THE SCREW(B.-\LL) 
.\fter a rather unplanned, but necessary, hospi­tal hiatus and consequent recuperative period, youi Secretary is back at the business of assemblln:­those few-and-far-bet»vccn Items laughingly re ferred to in the trade as class notes. 
Our eminent editor. Brother JOHN L.\UGHLIN (flectamus 'genua), chooses to characterize thijA. effort as a pastidie; I have always regarded i " as more of a pistachio .. . a frothy offering scattered through with diolce nuts. 
AH YES, THE REUNION . . . 

Only the choicest nuts showed for the reunlor .. . 30 in all. That Is a nice round figure, and some of our lads did Indeed display nice round figures, but hardly a quorum. We who were there had a fine time — I believe there is general accord on that point — but disappointment was evident at the nonappearance of several who were expectcA or at least anticipated. 
Only one class on the campus turned out fewer 

Atha n wc did . . . 1912. And since some of those revered gentlemen looked in exemplary shape, ive abandoned all thoughts of challenging them to a btc night pillow fight. 
RALPH MORTENSON helped save what remains of our prestige, claiming golf trophies for a pair of 74's and a 284-yard drive, and TONf McGUIRE (from Rio de Janeiro) and LUIS BELTRANENA (returning to Guatemala off a European lour with his lovely wife) gave us some distance distinction. 
THE MISSING DEUXCKE 

Although his post-polio condition prevented his being with us in June, PHIL DELINCKE was there in spirit in the presence of the "fractured quacker" mascot he helped name: *'ThorXDuck." The 
'SCommittcc thought the name particularly ap­propriate . . . the N.D. in the middle of it . . . the reference to the blackthorn the duck carries . . . the ver>- snappincss of the name. 
So Wc awarded Phil a t^vofold prize: A go!d-and­black mug with his name and class year inscribed in gold and an autographed copv of RICHARD SULLIVAN'S "Notre Dame." From West Col­lingswood, N. J., a delighted Delincke wrote to express his feelings: 
'*. . . Thank you for your card announcing my winning the 'Fractured Duck' naming contest. I have received my mug and am ver>' proud of It. I have it on display on the book shelves above my desk. Ever>-one thinks it is terrific! The book you mentioned, however, has not arrived as yet. 
 presume the author has been absent from the 

•1 
campus. (Ed. note: The hook is on its way, finally, suitably Sullivanized.) 
"Anyhow, I was so thrilled to learn that I had won the contest. I actually forget that a prize was lo be awarded. Believe me, I sure do appreciate it and shall remember the 15tli evcr>' time I look at it. Man, that*s a Notre Dame-sizcd schooner! 
'*. . , Was sorr^' to learn that the reunion turn­out fell so far short of the effort you put forth to bring out the class. It's a dam shame but, as the old Irish washwoman used to say, 'If they don't come, the door won't lut them in the backside when they leave.* 
"From the pictures I sec, I guess I'd need a guide to get around the campus these days. There certainly lias been a world of progress there! I sometimes wonder if the students of today have the same deep-rooted love for the wonderful acres 
j^urrounding the Golden Dome. You're close to the scene — do you think that the Notre Dame spirit is as high today as in the past??. . ." 
Tlie jur>-'s still out on that last one. Offhand, I'd say probably yes, though in a somewhat more sophisticated manner. 
GLEANINGS 

SAM ADELO> on his way to touchdowns in Italy, Spain, Kuwait, and Ireland, visited your scribe in the hospital, and was kind enough to drop in again at home during a brief stopover in South Bend on the way back home from the junket, Sam reveals that Erin has great natural gas re­
sources. Shucks, anyone who has ever known an 
r'Ould Sod" Irishman could have told him that! 
Right? 
BILL TRACY, a I5-ycar veteran of the FBI, has been named security director for Rcvlon, Inc.; he handles security matters for the firm and its sub­sidiaries, operating out of Edison, N. J. 
BROTHER ELWIN BORES, C.S.C., asking for JOHN GLAAB's new address, reveals he spent the summer at Portland U. studying and now is dean of men, teacher, cafeteria manager, etc., at St. Francis High School in Mountain View, Calif. 
One of our reunion buddies, ED SWEENEY, who recently organized a new casualty facultative facility for the Munich Reinsurance Co.'s United States branch, has been appointed vice-president in charge of facultative departments in Atlanta and Chicago, as well as New York. 
Tlic "Pakistan Letter" published by the Holy Cross Mission Society reveals BROTHER THOM/\S MORE BEERE, C^.C. is running a hostel for 
^lovs at Nagari, Pakistan. ^ And, also from Pakistan, BROTHER IV^VN DOLAN, C.S.C., writes: "School reopened July 10. The classrooms arc filling up slowly . . . the same for our hostel. At present I have about 215 boys and girls in the high school and an equal number in the primary'. It will take another month for all of the kids to get here. Many of them are without rice and money at this time of year . . . The school year used to start in January; a couple of years ago they decided to change it to July. . . It was a big mistake. Seventy-five lo 80 per cent A f the people over here are farmers; they depend on their rice crops for cash with which lo finance 
• 
\VILLIAM J. JANN, '47 In Sales & Adv., He Gives Till It Hertz 
Since last spring William Jann has been serving as director of sales and advertising of Hertz Rent A Car. Appointed to the job last May, Bill continues as an assistant vice-president of The Hertz Corporation and previously had served as Hertz Rent A Car sales manager. 
Bill Jann's expanded responsibilities in the newly created post include the adminis­tration of both sales and advertising func­tions. Hertz' sales activities extend into almost 900 U. S. cities in which facilities are established. Hertz' broad-scope national advertising program encompasses a wide x'ariety of media, including national net­work television, newspapers, trade and consumer magazines. 
A native of Chicago, Bill joined Hertz in 1949 in a sales capacity. In 1951 he was named assistant general manager and advertising manager of Hertz System, Inc. He was appointed assistant to the execu­tive vice-president in 1955 and retained that post until 1959 when he was pro­moted to Rent A Car sales manager. 
Bill ser\-ed in the U. S. Navy during World War II. He received a B.S. degree from the University in business adminis­tration. He is a member of the Sales Ex­ecutive Club of New York, American So­ciety of Travel Agents and American Asso­ciation of Airport Executives. 
In 1951 he married Jo Anne Walther of Chicago, an alumna of Chicago Teachers College. With their two children, Mary Gaylc and William, they live at 26 Valley-view -Ave., Rye, N.Y. 
their kids' educations; they are completely out of money and rice in the month of July each year. . . In your next letter I will hear all about the reunion. I do hope that the free beer attracted more than a mere 23. Had I but known about the free beer, I might have made more of an effort to be present!" 
We've had trouble locating FRANK McGINTY 
lately, and FRANK GILHOOLEY advised us he 
believes Afac is with the FBI in Anchorage, 
Alaska. We'll check it out and let you know. 
Finally, our sympathy to BILL WISHING on the death in South Bend this past summer of his brother, JOHN M. WISHING, who — John** widow, Edie, informs us — belonged in the '41 <jr '42 class. Bill is with the pharmaceutical house of Smith, Kline, and French in Falk Church, Va. 
TREASUREQUEST In dosing, we pass along word from Treasurer JOE SHARP that we came through the reunion with $33 in the coffers. We could use a more substantial buffer against possible Requiems in the next five years. 
From the .Alumni Office: Arthur Andersen & Company's beautiful quarterly "Chronicle" recently included a multiple-page feature article on the University, the College of Business .Administration and the department of accountancy which has supplied 27 members of the worldwide Andersen accounting organization. Leading the 27 N.D. men is partner GERALD E. STANTON, for whom the Class has to struggle with Gerry's original Class of 1944. Another '47 partner was FRANK B. O'BRIEN, who resigned last year to become president of the Secburg Corporation. P. J. S^L\LDONE is one of the 16 N.D. men on the employment rolls of the Babcock & Wilcox Com> pany. V. S. COLLETTI has been named area foreman in the gas and hea\'y chemical department of Gulf Oil Corp., Port Arthur, Tex. A Port Arthur native, he joined Gulf right after gradua­tlon in chemical engineering and was prenously operations foreman. He's married and has four children. Former Detroiter DONALD M. FISHER is now president of Ask Mr. Foster Travel Serv^ in New York City. Don retains the post of treasurer, which he has held since 1937 as part of a team buying control of the firm, which has 39 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. 
1948 
JohnDetant Gcoife A. Pflamn, 
PnHhhrr, Inc. 38 West Fifth Street Dqrton 2, Oliio 

From the .Mumni Office: We were hoping for some late bulletins on the poliucal fate of GEORGE A. SULLIVAN as a Massachusetts State Senator. The former football flash, now* father of nine, was in serious trouble going into the State primaries after his freshman term, in which he voted his conscience rather than the Democratic party line, endearing himself to some voluble supporters in the press but winning the disfavor of such strong pressure groups as the 
K. of C. and veterans' organizations. We hope the Pilgrim State has not lost a legislator whom the Senate floor leader characterized as a "man of spot­less integrity who is willing to stand up on his own two feet and fight for what he thinks is right." 
Mrs. Agnes Dooley, mother of the immortal DR. TO.\( DOOLEY, has revealed for the first time in her recently published biography of her son that he was once held captive by Communist forces in Vietnam. It happened in May, 1935, during the e\'acuation, as described by Tom in a letter to his mother: "I was held in a building right in the town. . . . The only harm that came to me was that I was just scared to death. All the time I was given food and water, of sorts. No head facilities, and no place to go. My clothes were taken away. This humiliation plus the mess (my own) that I was forced to stand, sit, and sleep in was all I had to take. Questioning, yes, a good deal of it, in a fashion that has been well publicized. But I was never touched. 'Sir, do you own an automobile? And is it not true that this car cost the equi\'alent of many people's salary-?' This was the type of questioning. . . . The full particulars of what happened during this time are not going to be told to anyone for some time. Tlie American Commodore, not having my walkie-talkie radio check for five days, came ashore himself and went to the International Control Commisison. My friends, the Poles, did some inter­
vening and my brief 'detention* came to an end.'* The book, "Promises to Keep," published by Farrar, Straus and Cudahy Nov. 26, contains Tom's hitherto unpublished letters and family pictures and would be a good item for your Christmas shopping list. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
1949 
John Walker 
Wayne, Illinois 
From the Alumni Office: Since graduation LEONARD DANTE has: re­ceived an M.A. from the College of Education, State University of New York, Albany, in June 1959; married Mary Gilbert at Assumption Church, Peekskill, in June, 1960; become a teacher of English at Pawling Central School, Pawling, N. V., and president of the Pawling Teachers Assn. for the ichool year 1962-63." From Wheeler AFB, Hau-aii, comes word that Maj. FRANCIS D. MILEY has assumed the position of chief of the base wire and facilities branch at Headquarters, Pacific Commu­nications Area. He was pre\iously attaclicd to Robins AFB, Ga. Frank and his wife (the former MarcJa Gilsdorf of Guide Rock, Neb.) have si.-c children. 
GERARD C. SPECHT, former president and di­rector of Industry Capital Corp., Chicago, has been elected executive \-ice-presidcnt of American In­dustrial Leasing Co., also in Chicago, *vitli branches in Ne*v York, Los Angeles, and Houston, Tex., and account executives in 65 metropolitan areas. .Amer­ican Industrial leases equipment to firms all over the country with an anual volume over §30 million. JERRY SP.AHN of Westchester, HI., got his C.L.U. charter from the .American College of Life Under­writers in September. Jerr>' went into insurance at graduation, took an underwriting course and studied insurance marketing at Purdue. He has produced at least a i>olic>-a week since joining John Hancock in 1951. He's an officer and director of the HHlside Rotar>- Club and a member of Westchester's Di\ine Infant Parish. 
WILLIAM J. DUGGAN has been promoted to vice-president of the Coates Board and Carton Co., a division of Coates Bros. Co., Inc., in Garfield, 

N. J. Bill joined the sales staff a year ago and was sales manager. He and his family live in Dcmarest, N. J. RAY FITZGERALD, sports wTitcr for the Springfield (Mass.) Union, recently won an au-ard for outstanding sports coverage in \\*estcm Massachusetts, taking the first trophy of an honor to be awarded annually by a local tournament. I^ J. SUTTER is one of 16 Notre Dame men re­ported employed by the Babcock & \ViIcox Com­pany. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 
From the Alumn! Office: 

Coral Gables' (Fla.) JOHN W*. THORN"rON, while toiling as secretary of the Miami N.D. Club, reminded us that the office has been deficient in re­porting the status of FATHER DAN CL.\RKE, having listed him as a layman in Des ^[oines, Iowa, in the last roster in 1960. John enclosed a clipping from the Des Moines diocese "Messenger" which re­ported: "FATHER D.\NIEL J. CLARKE, ap­pointed .. . to the pastorate of Irish Settlement, was named editor and business manager of the **Messenger" by Bishop Eduard C. Daley, O.P., Des Moines, effective Oct. 1. . . . The new editor recently returned from Denver, where he spent sLx weeks familiarizing himself with . . . the news­paper plant. . . . Father Clarke, a native of New­ton . , . attended St. Augustin's Parochial school, Dowling High school, and the University of Notre Dame before entering philosophical and theological studies at the St. Paul seminary*. 
"'Following his ordination here in 1954, Father Clarke pursued postgraduate studies at the Mexico City college, Mexico City, D.F., Mexico. He was iq>pcinted assistant pastor at Visitation church in D ^ Moines on his return and has been active in the apostolate among the Spanish-speaking, especi­ally at Guadalupe chapel, a mission of Visitation church. During the seven years before being ap­pointed pastor of Irish Settlement, Father Clarke was an instructor in Spanish at Dowling High school. He is a veteran of World War II service with the U.S. Navy in the Pacific" 
GEORGE C. DICKSON, former assistant coadi with TERRY BRENN.\N, '49, was appointed an ailistant to Oklahoma's Bud ^Mlkinson. George was defensive backfield coach of the American Foot­ball League's Oakland Raiders last year. His 11 years of coaching have also included services at N.Y.U., Jllarquette, Southern California and College 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
A. A. SOMMER, JR., '48 Cleveland Counselor, Very Much Alive 

In the roster recently prepared for the 15th anniversar>' reunion of the Glass of 1948 next June, 10 men whose names began with "S" were listed in the section headed "Deceased." Al Sommer's class card had been shifted out of place, along with those of Joe Sobek, Jim Sommer, John Sosen­heimer, Al Spahn, Tom Sparks, John Spell-man, Frank Spiegel, Joe Spinelli and Ray Srsic. 
According to word from his fans in Cleve­land, A\ Sommer is very much alive — "an outstanding family man who is highly de­voted to his professional ideals." 
Al matriculated at Notre Dame in 1941, but Army ser\'ice during World War II in­terrupted his studies for a few years. Re­turning, he was graduated in late summer with an A.B. in political science {magna cum laude). Drawn to philosophy and law, he went to Har^rard Law School for his LL.B. 
In 1951 Al married Storrow Cassin of San Antonio, Tex., whom he had met three months before graduation (his from Har­\'ard. hers from Wellesley). He hailed from Detroit and Chicago, she from Texas, and they had met in Boston, so they settled in Cleveland where neither had any roots. Al joined the law firm of Calfee, Fogg, Mc-Chord & Halter and has been a partner since 1958. Meanwhile, the Sommers have had three children: Susan, now 8; Edward, 5; and Nancy, 3. 
Formerly vice-president and trustee of the Serra Club of Cleveland (see "Spotlight" on Serra Chief Fred Wagner,'24), Al is an indefatigable speaker on vocations to the priesthood. Presentiy he's v-ice-president and a director of the Citizens League, member of the Cleveland Advertising Club's legisla­tive committee and the Welfare Federation Children's Council, trustee of Marycrest School (Catholic high school for troubled girls) and formerly of the Cleveland Junior Chamber of Commerce. Among his legal 
of the Pacific Since .August JAMES J. GROVES has been executive vice-president of Edgar Corpora-^ tion, manufacturer of mouldings, stampings and " metal specialties in Fcrndale, Mich. South Bend attorney ARTHUR W. GOULET has joined the firm of Schindler, VanTilbury & Kramer in Misha­waka, Ind., for the general practice of law. Art, a native of the Panama Canal Zone and a '51 Law School grad, has been admitted to practice before the Indiana Supreme Court and Federal District Courts, is a member of the Indiana State and St. Joseph County Bar Assns. He's married and the father of five. 
FRANCIS J. FITZGER.ALD of St. Louis has been promoted to director of product sales in the marketing department of Monsanto Chemical Company's inorganic chemicals d!\'ision, St. Louis, after serving as product manager for surfactants. PETER TOMASHEK has been selected for a full-^ time scholarship leading to a master's degree in a graduate school of social work. The scholarship includes full tuition, books, incidentals, travel and a monthly stipend, plus summer employment. The award was made by the Cook County, 111., Depart­ment of Public Aid, whose chief recruiter said that "Mr. Tomashek's performance is best described as 'outstanding.' " R. }• SULLIVAN is on a list of 16 N.D. men with the Babcock & Wilcox Co. 
1951 
Robert Klingenbcigcr ^ 
3405 Thames Dr. 
Ft. Wayne, Indiana 

From the Alumni Office: JOSEPH P. GALLOWAY, ^vho got his M.S. in chcm engineering in *52, has caused quite a ripple in Binghamton, N. Y. Joe, a senior production engineer at Ansco (photo-repro dixision of General Aniline and Film Corp.), recently received an award of merit and a certificate of proficiency lor his outstanding technical paper, "Optimum utilization of Power Truck Equipment with a Planned Pre­ventive Maintenance Program." Tlie paper, sub-^ mitted in the Ninth Annual Award Contest spon­sored by the Clark Equipment Co. and conducted by the American Material Handling Society, placed among the top ten in the nation and rated printing in Factory Magazine. For the past few years Joe has been a one-man team as president of the Triple Cities N.D. Club. JERRY GROOM got a nice cartoon biography treatment in the Peoria, 111., "Journal Star." Now a Peoria resident, Jerry was an all-sport letterman at Dowling High, Des Moines, before his N.D. career as an All-American ccnter-Hncbackcr, cap­taincy of the East and AU-SUr squads in '51 grid classics, All-Pro and Pro-Bowl honors in '55. ERNIE ZALEJSKY, the South Bend flash, hosted^ St. Joseph High School football coacli WALLY^ MOORE, *50, at a recent smoker of the St. Joseph Young Men's Society, of which Ernie Is president. Wally's St. Joseph team, incidentally, was the class of the county, beating all but powerful Washington High during the season. RICHARD B. FETTERS has been appointed assistant swimming coach at Midiigan State. Dick got an M.S. from Indiana 
U. in 1954, has taught and coached at Kimball High (Royal Oak, Mich.), Fort Lauderdale (Fla.) High, and Riley High (South Bend), where he was also athletic -director. 
DENNIS J. O'NEILL, JR., should be assisting Mayor Wagner as Prime Minister of New York. Dennv recently moved to a fairly unusual address —10 Downing St. And RICHARD J. GUILTINAN is also in New York, one of 27 N.D. men listed as employees of Arthur Andersen Sc Co. Dick is a New York manager for the distinguished account­ing firm. ^ . 
affiliations are membership on the Corpora­tion Law Committee of the Ohio State Bar Association and activity with the Cleveland and American Bar Assns. 
Al has confided that his off-duty interests include reading ("a bad habit left over from the [Prof. Frank] O'Malley days"), golf^ "and, frankly, law," 
RESEARCH GRANT of $3,000 to help 
underwrite establishment of an engineering 
systems analysis lab is presented by 
Ralph Caouette (left), general manager 
of Bendix Products Automotive Division, 
South Bend, to Dr. E. W. Jerger, acting 
head of Notre Dame's department of 
mechanical engineering. 
1952 

Harry L. Buch 600 Board of Trade BIdg. Wheeling, W. Va. 
From the xMumni OiHcc: 
^ JAMES F. GARVIX, assistant general manager and industrial development director of the Lincoln, Xeb., Chamber of Commerce, recently submitted his resignation, efTcctivc Sept. 15, to manage the Florida regional office of the Edward J. DeBartoIo Companies. The DcBartoIo companies, headed by ED DeBARTOLO, 'M, arc headquartered in Youngstown, O., pro\"iding "package'* development, promotion and management of shopping centers, industrial parks, commercial buildings, urban re­development programs and thoroughbred racing parks. The Florida ollice Is in DcBartolo's mall-type shopping center In Melbourne, 25 miles south of Cape Canaveral. The companies have contracted to provide shopping centers, industrial parks and 
»
port facilities in the huge Florida residential projects f)f Port Malabar, fort St. Lucie and Port Cliarlottc. Jim Garvin joined the Lincoln Chamber in June, 1960, and has been secretarv- of the Industrial De­velopment Corporation, manager of the Industrial Park, manager of state industrial development campaign and staff assistant to several committees. Formerly he was assistant city manager, public in­formation and industrial promotion director in Toledo, O. Jim Is a law\er with an additional degree from Toledo U., a member of the American, Nebraska and Ohio Bar Assns., is married and has three children. DR. GEORGE M. HALEY, a South Bend native and son of Notre Dame's J. ARTHUR HALEY, '26, is back in town practicing urology in the Sherland Bldg. George got his M.D. at the Slritch School of Medicine, Loyola U., Chicago, and interned at Merc>' Hospital, Buffalo, X. Y., before entering militar\' ser^'Ice for duly at Brook Army Hospital, ^San Antonio, Tex., and in Panama. He then 
p.raincd in a four-year urologic program at George­town U. Hospital, Washington, D. C , before re­turning for practice. R. E. DOLMETSCH has been transferred by U.S. Gypsum from operative builder sales in Chicago and appointed area product manager for plastering materials. J. E. Pollock is one of 16 Notre Damers with the Babcock & Wilcox Company. 
RICHARD A. DeGRAFF has been appointed associate director of development at DePaul Uni­versity, Chicago. Dick scr\cd for two years as 
assistant to the president of Tri-State College, 
Angola, Ind. He has an M.S. and doctorate In education from Indiana U. With his wife Geraldine and three daughters (Lynn Marie, 4, Jodie, 2, and Jcaninc, I), Dick lives in Hazel Crest, III. JOSEPH DEVLIEGHER of Mishaivaka has pronounced his first vows in the Congregation of Holy Cross recently at Sacred Heart Xovitiatc, Jordan, Minn., and will continue his studies at Moreau Scminar>* on the campus. 
1953 
David A. McEIv^n 2328 Alexander Terr. Homewood, Illinois 

A few faithful souls have corresponded over the last 90 days, thereby rescuing the writer from the acute embarrassment of a completely blank page under the '53 heading. DICK PERRY checked in from Santiago, Chile, where he is managing director of the Chilean Branch of the United Shoe Machincr>- Co. Dick has been in Chile since 1959, having first spent two years with the Marines and a similar tour at Harvard Business School. Dick is still a bachelor, and from the sound of his note he is finding life in Chile ver>' agreeable. On a trip to Boston In Dec, '61. Dick ran into JAY CURLEY, who is a stockbroker in Beantown. 
BOB DOU'NER Is the proud father of a baby daughter, Mary Kathr>'n, bom Feb. 23, 1962. From Detroit, BILL KENNEDY reported his recent activities, which include live kids, a position as director of public relations and advertising for the Detroit Insurance .Agcnc}', and candidacy on the Republican ticket for State Senator. Best of luck. Bill. 
.-\s all of you can readily sec. the column and its author are desperately in need of your support. Any morsels of Information will be joyfully re­ceived. 
From the .Mumnl Office: 
In October Notre Dame and Indiana University jointly sponsored a one-man show of sculpture and 
NEW ENGINE presented to the depart­ment of mechanical engineering by the Ford Motor Co. is the topic of this huddle by a trio of N.D. "hot-rodders": (from left) Ford university representati%*e Peter Keman, *49, a member of the national Alumni Board; Dr. Edward Jerger, acting department head; and Gerald Hammcs, '53, South Bend Ford dealer and president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley. 
UNRESTRICTED GRANT of $4,800, 1962 Scars, Roebuck and Co. c<»itribatiaa to Notre Dame's $18 million Challenge Program, is presented by T. R. Pctcraan (left), Sears manager for the South Bend area, to James W. Frick, '51, executive director of the N.D. Foundation. Scars is awarding nearly $900,000 to 557 private colleges and umvcr^tics thToi^hont the U.S. Such unrestricted gifts will be applied to the new Memorial Library, grad residence halls, faculty and student aid. 
drawings by D.-\VID HAYES, held alternately at the O'Shaughnessy and I.U. galleries. Dave and family are still in Paris, where he is still studying the Romanesque style on a tandem Fulbrlght-Guggenheim fellowship. Says Dave: "We have grown so acclimated to life here in France that the question now is, not how soon shall we return home, but how much longer we shall stay. It looks like an exhibition here In Paris before Christmas, but shall know more definitely later.'* 
Congratulations to the Honorable JOSEPH M. McDADE, elected Republican Congressman from the Tenth District of Pennsylvania. Joe's election was first trumpeted long-distance by Scranton Democrat BILL COMERFORD, '49, in a nice gesture of alumni fellowship. Maybe it's due to the fact that Scranton's namesake, a Republican, is now governor. JOHN T. McHALE was recently transferred to the Wilkes Barre, Pa., offices of Haskins & Sells, Certified Public Accountants, 506 First National Bank Bldg. 
ROGER O. ZOELLNER has joined the Trane Company's Columbus, O., office as an engineer specialist for the air conditioning-heating firm. Roger was graduated from the Trane student engineer training program in 1956. DONALD J. REYNOLDS received an )LS. in management at Rensselaer Poly to supplement his EE degree at 
N.D. J.AMES C. NOONAN, superintendent of Woodnevc Detention Home in St. Paul, Minn., has alrcadv ieser\'cd for the lOth anniversary reunion. D.WID A. LAUER.M.AN (M.A. '58) has been ap­pointed assistant professor of English at Cantsius College. Dave Is working toward his doctorate at Indiana U., has taught at N.D., I.U. and Northern Illinois University. 
REV. MICHiVEL .\fcKlNSTRA (William Mich­ael, that is) was ordained to the priesthood last May 19 by BISHOP LORAS LANE, '32, of the Rockford, III., diocese at St. Mary's Church, Free­port, 111. Son of the late John and Mrs. Mary SfcKinstra of Freeport, Father Mike said his First Mass at noon. May 20, at St. Mary's. He spent two years in the .Army after graduation, then went to St. Meinrad's Seminary, Ind. He's on general assignment in the Rockford diocese. THOMAS E. FOOTE, as we may have mentioned before, hai joined the staff of Ford Motor Company's public relations office in San Francisco. Tom, previously an account executive ^vith Los Angeles' Theodore R. Sills & Co., was a stafTer on the Salina, Kans., Journal and public relations director for Marymonnt College. 
News on Grad School members of the Class: DR. FRANCIS P. BALDWIN is now a scmor re­search associate at Esso Research and Engineering Co., headquartered in Linden, N. J. A native of Brooklyn, Frank started his company career in 1937 as a messenger, got his B.S. at Winner College night school, and was a physics teaching fellow at NJ>. while getting his doctorate on educational leinre. A developer of butyl products, he was named a section head in 1957, coordinating product develop 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 43 
ment on plastic materials, has published frequently and has 44 patents credited to him. He's married and has two daughters in Summit, X. J. DR. J. 
A. MOUNTAIN is now an Esso section head. He got his bachelor's from St. Michael's College, Ver­mont, his master's at N.D. in inorganic chemistr>', and a doctor:iIe in the same Held from Penn State before joining Esso's Enjay Labs in 1937. Credited with a patent already, he's responsible for the buton resin section and lives in Scotch Plains, X. J., with Mrs. Mountain and tu-o sons. 
1954 
Milton J. Bcaudinc 76 East Court Dr. Decatur, Illinois 

Our Second Annual Reunion Party ^vas a success despite the fact that Purdue won the game. With undaunted spirit we undertook the task of cleaning up those martinis and manhattans about as fast as the two bartenders could pour them. Although it seems impossible, we will try to pick out a winning game for next year's party- Yes! I said annual! You see, between last deadline and this one, I received exactly one letter from which to ^mte this article and had our reunion party been one week later, my whole article would have been, as threat­ened, about my son Bobby! 
DICK PILGER again dcscr\cs the credit for the good time had by one and all. "We can't thank bun enough, and he's a glutton for punishment willing to manage the details again in '63. Jane and JIM BERNHART arrived early. Jane is expecting their second child very soon and Jim reports that he is being transferred back to Chi­cago, with Motorola. "Ro Ro" and BOB PODEN were there and we all missed the Cincinnati crowd who couldn't make it this year. Tlie Podcns arc also expecting again. TOM SHORT stopped in for a quick one. He u-as on his way to Los Angeles toward a career with North American .Aviation. As usual, Karen and BILL MORLEY and Pat and BILL REYNOLDS were among the group. Also, from Chicago, JOE McGiNN and J. D- MADIG.\N made special guest appearances. DICK DcMONTE, Auburn, N. Y., carried a special message from Pat and FRANK R.AITH who tried but couldn't make the scene. 
Had a long talk with JOE MESEC and if you're in Milwaukee and happen to see a bic>'cle-built-for­four pass by, feel free to take pictures and ask for autographs — the Mesecs arc very obliging. Joe raises guinea pigs and works for AlHs Chambers on the side. TOM MORPHEY had withdrawn his re­quest that BERRY REECE be barred from future parties in light of the socially acceptable manners he exhibited this time. JAKE NOOXAN even left his scissors home. 
Rmh and GEORGE PFL.\UNf, along with GENE HOWLEY and JOE JOYCE, were also there. Had a report that PAT C4RRIC0 is buying up Colorado and hopes to build a lodge soon. Let us know Pat and we'll all be out to freeload a little. Pat is with the Denver Post (I think). Judy Eltle­brick demonstrated the true X.D. spirit while she sat through the game in the Morris Inn while husband BOB ETTLEBRICK, who could come up with only one ticket, watched from the end zone. Actually, Judy made out better than most of us who had to watch the game. TOM GODFREY with his bride was also at the part\'; at last year's part>- they were just dating. Last year I reported that JIM HAMLIN was fat — he still is, but looks good though. Also looking good were BILL DALY, CHARLIE ALLEN, DAN MUNSON, WALT DUSCHKA, TIM O'HARA, D.AVE KEFFLER, DAN MOTZ, and TOM HALEY. WALT ^VAG­N£R was bragging a little about his new baby boy, heir to all of Louistillc, and D.\N MUNSON is willing to concede victor\- in the offspring derby. BILL MEYER, ED BRO^W and LEN \V*ELCH also helped consume the goodies. My old room­mate PETE SCHWENK flew in for the party after taking in the Boat Show in Chicago. He has three girls, and wife JeanAnn is expecting her fourth. I drove to the game with ED "NED'* SEIM and his wdfe Sheila. They are living in Crawfordsvillc, Ind., but are moving back to ^Vausau, \Vis., after Janu­ary. Oh! By the way, "Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year." Ellaine and JACK PITTAS were also at the party, after spending the previous 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
JOHN T. ELSON, '53 Ecumenical Council, the TIME of his LIFE 
The exciting deliberations of the 21st Ecumenical (and Second Vatican) Council are particularly exciting for John Elson, religion editor of Time magazine. Covering the Council for Time and Life are not his first thrilling assigments, however, as a recent Time blurb will testify: ". . . to cover a story as old as Easter, Time's Religion Editor John T. Elson flew to Basel, Switzerland, to talk to the man on this week's cover, Theologian Karl Barth. They talked, among other thin^, of Calvin, Mozart and Reinhold Niebuhr ('a great man, but if only he had an inner ear, 
Saturday watching the TV game with Marie and me in Decatur. Actually wc re:dly didn't want to see them, but it was the only way we could get our coats which we left in Arlington Heights after a session in July. It's true. Jack docs have a hollow leg. 
Had a very cnjo>'able lunch the other day at "JOHN LATTNER's Steak House" across from St. Peter's in downtown Chicago. Seeing John again brought back memories of when Notre Dame used to win evcr>' now and then. John sees BOB KIGALI occasionally and mentioned that his fat friend from Toledo is coacliing a pretty fair Ohio powerhouse this year. (Right, TOM McHUGH?) 
The one letter I received was from bachelor GEORGE O'CONNELL, 815 Greenwich St., New York 14, N. Y. George is with Bell Telephone Laboratories in a power development group. He reports seeing ED HOGAN , TOM RYDER and ED FITZPATRICK at some of the X. Y, N.D. Club functions. To answer your question, George, I don't swim with my clothes on any more. ("Greek" 
— George says hello.) 
It was also reported that JOHN MURNANE won the men's championship at the St. Charles Country Club Golf Tourney. He's a repeat winner, having won in I960 also. If any of you would like copies of the party pictures shown in this issue, just write. Even if you don't want pictures, write. For instance, how about a letter from: TIM SOT­TEK, JOHN MALFA, iURT Y MOORE, ANDY CORRAO, GREG SULLIVAN. TO.M SENSE, AURK McCABE. CHARLIE HANLEY, JIM BUCKENMYER. BILL TILL and JIM McHUGH. Huh?? 
From the .-Mumni Office: CHARLES YATES HAFNER started the past 
through which he could hear what Mozart is saying, he wouldn't be so serious all the ^ time*). Barth cheerfully remarked that a ^ Barthian usually smokes a pipe; an ortho­dox theologian, cigars; and liberals, ciga­rettes. He offered Religion Editor Elson — a cigar." The Elson orthodo.vy also has produced a brilliant pre-Council slorj- on Pope John. 
Only 31, John has had a full journalistic career for a non-journalism grad. He went to St. Anselm's Prior>' School in Washing­ton, D.C., before majoring in English for his A.B. at Notre Dame (magna cum laude) and took an M..A. on a Woodrow Wilson A fellowship at Columbia, writing his thesis on novdist Graham Greene. He worked briefly as a stafT writer for The Canadian Press in their New York bureau, then put in two years' Air Force duty in Japan. After another stint with Canadian, he joined Time as a correspondent in the Detroit bureau. He spent about 14 months in Detroit before returning to New York as a contributing editor. Last year he was promoted to associate editor, and in De­cember he was given the Religion section. 
Since joining the home office staff, John^ has written Time's "People" section, then covered Canada, then National Affairs (now "The Nation") before his Religion assign­ment. He has written six cover stories for the magazine: a "Show Biz" piece on tele­vision's Robert Kintner; three National Affairs treatments, Barr>' Goldwater, JFK in Europe, and Douglas Dillon; and the Religion stories on Karl Barth and Pope John XXIII. By-lined by Life magazine for a recent story on art treasures of the Vatican, he is currently on special assign­ment to Life for a piece on the state of the Catholic Church around the world. ^ 
The Elsons threaten to become a Time dynasty. Eight years ago John married Rosemary Knorr, then a Time copyreader. His father, Robert T. Elson, is chief of Time's London Bureau. 
semester as instructor in literature at Antioch 
College, Yellow Springs, O. A teaching assistant at Stanford last year, he expects to get his Ph.D. In English and the humanities in 1963 on Univer­sity Honors fellowships. He was a cum laude in ^ English at N.D. DICK ROSENTHAL, presidentW of South Bend's St. Joseph Bank, was a report meeting m.c. for the local Crusade of Hope (United Fund) campaign. An alumnus of the Fort Wayne U.F., the Pistons basketball team and Indiana Bank & Trust Co., Dick came to South Bend last spring and was a chairman of the Big Firms division for the U.F. campaign. DANA P. WEITHERS, presi­dent of the C. C. Chapelle Co., Chicago marketing research and consulting firm, has been honored by a cliange of the company's name to The Dane Weithers Corporation. Dana joined Chapelle in 1956 as research director and became president in 1958. With an M.B.A. in marketing from DcPauI, he is a lecturer in marketing at the school's College of Commerce. His company, founded in 1941, is one of the oldest independent marketing consultant firms in the Midwest. THOMAS J. MURPHY has entered law practice with the Indianapolis firm of Edward D. Lewis in the Circle Towers. Tom wen ^ 
to I.U. Law School and ser\-ed with the Armv iiV Tokyo. THOMAS J. NESSINGER, a manager in the Chicago branch of Arthur Andersen & Co., is the author of an excellent 12-page article on the University, its College of Business Administration and department of accountancy*, llth in a series in Andersen's top-notch house organ, the Chronicle, October issue. Tom Joined the Chicago oflice upon graduation. With the exception of two years of service as an officer in Korea, he was on tlie audit staff tmtil 1957, when he transferred into adminis­
trative services in 1961. He also has been activ|^ in Junior achievement and other civic work. TomP is one of 27 N.D. men listed with ihc Andersen 
^^organization. 
( • From Professor DICK PILGER of the chemistry-department comes a complete report on the 8'/^ Year Reunion after the Purdue game: "The second annual informal reunion came off without a hitch (except for the score of the game, and what can I do about that?). Over 100 persons attended, including the following members of the Class, most of whom brought their spouses: 
Charlie Alien, Dick Anton, Milt Beaudinc. Ed Brown, Pete Buchcit, Bob Crespy, Bill Daly, John Darago, Dick Dclmonte, George Dolat, Walt Druska. Bob Ettclbrink, Bob Farnbauch. Tom God­frey, Dale Hall, Jim Hamlin. Gene Howley, Bob Incicli, Juc Joyce, Dave Kefflcr, Mike LaugliHn, Joe Madigan, Joe Mesec. Bill Meyer, Leo Michuda, Bill Morley, Dan Motz, Dan Munson, Dan Murphy, 
fi^kTom Murphy, Mike Xevillc, Jake Xoonan, Tim ^O'Hara. Pat O'Malley, George Pflauni, Dick Pilgcr, Jack Pittas, Bob Podcn, Fred Poehlcr. Duke Rank. Berry Rcece. Bill Reynolds, IVte Schwenk, Ed Scim. Chuck Spn'nkel, Jim Stubter, Walt Wagner, and Len Welch. 
'*TIie various supplies were consumrd with gusto, and those present voted to meet again next fall at the first home game of the season (while the weather will be more than likely good and hope may be possible). So — XOTA BENE! September 28, 1963 — Xotrc Dame vs. Wisconsin — we meet again! 
**A further note to those who complained this fall that I didn't announce the date soon enough (it was in last January's ALUMXUS — how early 
,^can you gel?), you arc herewith forewarned, and 
mt MILT BEAUDINE and Editor JOHN L.\UGH­LIN don't forget, you will be reminded In each issue until September 28, 1963. The deal will be the same —§2.00 each, $3.50 couple; sandwiches and drinks. Y'ALL COME! 
"We gleaned some news from the returned forms. The JOHN SHEEDYs were expecting number four; John is taking golf lessons so he won't win the booby prize at the lOth reunion (remember the 154 he shot [?] at the 5th?). John also reports that JOE SHELLEY is a familv man and home owner in New Rochelle, X. Y. JIM HOFF, S.J., who was with us two years before transferring to Mar­quette, is now beginning theology at St. Mar>''s College, St. Mar\**s. Kans. Pleasant notes were al>o received from BOB BLOOM. HERM KRIEGS­HAUSER, Capt. JACK KEENxVN USMC. DICK KELCH, BOB RAYMOND (who begged off to rc­
l^ecorale his house). JERRY TURLEY, .MAX "L*\NTE , TOM SHORT, and others." 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 
7344 N. Ridge Blvd. 
Chicago 45, Illinois 

Well, let's open with a swinging IioHday greeting to you and the whole family. I just hope yon put me on the Christmas card list so that the next column will be bursting with class news. This une 
"sn't! Incidentally, tf you're sick and tired of 
• _eading this thing and not finding your name, there is a solution. Sit down and write a letter . . . a card .. . or do like some guys: dictate on the company's time! Don't ^vorry fellows, I won't rat on you. 
O.K.. let's get down to business. The letter of the cycle goes to JERRY HUGHES, who probably is the farthest away from this correspondent. The **Huge" family is in Taiwan, where Jerry- was battling Typhoon Dinah while typing his letter. He is the operation ofHccr there, but his tour ends next June. Jerry has applied for Air Force Institute of Technology grad study in international relations with his eye on the intelligence field, but he hasn't heard anything as yet. Jerry and his wife Joan recently welcomed a second son. Michael Christopher. The former A-B. Senator would like to hear from some of his old buddies. Here's the address: Capt. Jerome E. Hughes, Box 
Jfij, Det No. 1, -tOJth FW —602, .APO HO, San Vincisco, Calif. As Mel Allen would say, "How About Tliat!" 
Jerry, who complains about the tough tour of duty (in the officers' club), has run into GENE WAGNER, who is in the personnel division of the 13th Air Force at Clark Air Base in the Philippines. His wife joined him recently, and they both prob­ably will go "native." Back at the club bar Jerry-had a milkshake with MARTY MAHRT, who is stationed at Kadcna Air Base in Okinawa. Marty occasionally leaves the family at the island and flics 
H 
ailing plane up to Taiwan for ser\-icing. According to the grapevine, BOB KERBY is 
THOMAS R. O'CONNELL, *54 For IBM Engineers, a Reluctant Model 
If the picture above seems vaguely famil­iar, it's no surprise. Greatly enlarged, such pictures of Tom O'ConncII and the George Washington Bridge have appeared over the last two years in Benton & Bowles* institu­tional ads for International Busintiss Ma­chine Corporation in more than 200 mag­azines nationwide and caused the subject more than a little embarrassment. 
Drawn simultaneously to engineering and 
sales, Tom got his B.S. in mechanical en­
gineering. He is a member of the '53 Glass, 
but illness delayed his graduation to the 
spring of 1954. After two years as a Lt. 
iJ-S') in the Navy, he joined IBM as a Data 
Processing trainee in sales school at Endi­
llying out of Xaha Air Base, which also is in 
Okinawa. Or maybe I should say nn Okinawa. 
Incidentally, I hope FATHER JOE O'DOXXELL 
reads this because Jerr>' would especially like to 
hear from him. 
PAT Mc(i\N*N's lovely wife Irene almost got the 
letter of the cycle award. She really put him in his 
place: "After seeing Pal's name in the 'what-ever­
happcned-to* column, I thought it was time I took 
some action." So there! Pat is the athletic director 
and head basketball coach at St. Rose High School 
in Belmar, X. J. His team won the Xew Jersey 
State Parochial Basketball Championship last winter. 
He also is a captain in the Air Force reserve. The 
McCanns have two sons and a daughter. Irene 
leports that GENE CA.MOOSA is with the Voung 
and Rubicam ad agenc>' in Xew York. Gene and 
his wife Mary Alycc have one son. 
Lct^s sec if we can't put some other guys on the spot. Here's your cue, gals, to pick up your pen and write. What ever happened to: LOUIS AMESTOY, MIKE AQUILIXO, TOM BARN­ICLE. JIM BARRY, JOHN and DICK CALLA­HAN, ED DARGIS, ED D.^VID, JOHN EVRARD, DON EWBANK, PAUL FAZZONE, JOHN and TOM FEELEV, JOE GAMBARDELLA, PETE GANTERT, HERB HAILE, DICK HAIRSINE, JOHN JENA. ART JOHNSON, WALT KEARNS, OWEN KEAVNEV, BILL LARKIN, CHRIS LARSEN, FRANK and JOE McCARTHY, JOHN NE.METZ, and BOB NEVERIL. 
JOE TONINI wrote to explain why the engineer­ing and science boys now are "outwriting" the A.B. crew. *'The reason for this is that we did so little of it in school and we arc trying to make it up!" Good line, Joe. A registered professional engineer, Joe lives at 103J4 E. Empire St., Free­
cott, N.Y., and kept with this specialty in subsequent training programs. 
In 1957 Tom married Christina Coyle of Short HiUs^ N.J., a graduate of Rosemont (Pa.) College. They were blessed with twins, Carolyn and Stephen, then a "single," Chris­topher, A fourth child, Susan Dorothy, was on the way by the time Tom had completed his studies for an M.B.A. degree at New York University, with a thesis on Data Processing. 
Two years ago, at 29, he was promoted to senior account representative, beading a 20-man team of salesmen, systems engineers and trainees in the marketing, service and support of IBM Data Processing equipment in New York*s governmental units. Working out of the corporation's Church Street offices, they cover the local government offices of New York City, the Manhattan offices of the New York State government, the United Nations budget operations, and Arch­diocesan schools and offices in Manhattan and the Bronx. Tom's personal account is the Port of New York .Authority, and his work with engineers and management with the design and engineering problems of their second deck addition to the George Wash­ington Bridge (which resulted in the Au­thority's installing a new improved IBM computer system) intrigued management with its promotional possibilities. The pic­ture of a young engineer-salesman helping redesign one of the world's busiest bridges was too good to miss. Hence an article in Careers 1961 and the famous ad in all the technical journals and college magazines, in­cluding Notre Dame's Tech Review. Em­barrassed by such recognition, Tom accepts it only as symbolic of honor due to "more desen-'ing" and equally self-effacing "team" engineers in IBM and other corporations employing Notre Dame men. 
Tom, Christina. and their four children live in Montclair, N.J., where they are active in the Community Chest, Junior League and affairs of Immaculate Concep­tion Parish. 
port, III. He also pointed out how time flies — Iiis son Mark recently started school. Hey, that reminds me, who's leading in the "birth stakes?'* DON YECKEL, I need a current report. Before I forget, Joe would like to hear from RON MAKOW5KI, who has owed him a letter for four 
(4) years! I even gave you the address, Ron, so you don't have an excuse. 
The Geolog>' Department was kind enough to send me a copy of its annual newsletter, and I hope they keep me on the mailing list. Here's the latest on the prospectors. MIKE ELLIS is working for the U. S. Geological Sur\ey, Ground Water Branch, in Huron, S.D. (841 Beach Ave.). PAT HALEY received his M.S. in geology from Florida Stale University In '56. He's slill with Humble Oil Co. You Iran reach Pat and his wife, Janet, at 721 E. Nutwood St., Inglcwood, Calif. 
No definite word on DAN HEALY , but the grape­vine has it that he's in Houston with an oil companv. How about bringing us up to date, Dan? 
Texaco has JOHN NICKNISH, who is living it up in X'ew Orleans. Home address is 3742 Herald St. JOHN O'SULLIVAN is at Iowa State Uni­versity after a stint in Alaska for research on his postdoctoral fellowship. John and his wife, Kath­leen, have three children — Charlotte, Scan, and Theresa. 
BOB WHIPPO, a research mineralogist, has been transferred to the nuin research facility of Inter­national Minerals. He lives at 1114 Dell Rd., North-brook, III. 
Here are a few more '*Iost soids" I would like to hear from pronto: SAM PALUMBO and TONY PASQUESI (probably selling footballs), CHARLES REAGEN, BERRY REECE, DON SAPTTSCHI, GEORGE S.^KO, CARL TESCHEMACHER, 
Notre Dame Alumnus. Year End, 1962 
JOHN THELEN, WlLBER VAN SCOIK, TONY April 28; and DONALD LOGAN. May 16 in 
VERBISCAR, JIM WALLER, BOB WALLNER, WARREN YOUNGSTROM and WALLY ZIEMBA. 
TOM IGLESKI, Chicago's most dapper legal eagle, took the long w-alk down the aisle Nov. 10 with the former Arline Skowronsti. They arc living in our town's famous new ^farina City. Tom passed the bar this year after picking up his degree from DePaul. He reports that JIM IRWIN now 15 an assistant to a federal district judge in Cincv. Jim has t%«'o children. 
Another of our classmates has died. Lt. PHIL McHUGH was called on July 23, I9G2 when he was killed in a Na\-\- radar patrol plane crash. A special memorial Mass u-as said on campus Sept. 1. Our sjTnpathy is extended to Phil's widow. 
From the Alumni Office: From the Downey (Calif.) Live ^Vire ^ve got a report that HENRY P. KEARNS filed nomination papers for tlic Nov. 6 election for the Park District Board. It may be months before the Pony Express brings the word on whether he was elected. He's been a member of the Park Ad\-isorv- Com­mittee and the Civic Development Committee for two years, was a coach at Our Lady of Perpetual Help School and coached football teams in the Downey Junior .Athletic Association. A former foot­ball-baseball whiz at Downey High, Hank is an engineer with North American Space and Informa­tion, System Division, mariied. with three children. *'I am interested in helping to develop well-rounded recreation programs for the citizens of Downey," he said, "I feel that steps can be taken to en­courage individual sports. The recreation program in, Dovvnc\' is a strong one, and I wish to work toward making it even better than it is now." Retroactive best wishes to candidate Kcams. Best wishes to RALPH GUQLIELMI, hampered by injury and bad luck In his work with the football Cardinals and RedsUns, in his continuing career understudying Y. A. Tittle of the N. Y, Giants. CHARLES D. REAGAN was recently promoted to Data Phone sales manager with Indiana Bell Telephone in Indianapolis. Except for two years' military leave. Chuck has been in various positions with Indiana Bell since graduation. He and wife Marjorie have three children, Terrencc David, Kevin Gerrart, and Susan Marie. THOM.\S V. MARSHALL and wife Vivian have a new address in Wilmington, Del., (available on request) and a change in the household. Child number five and second son William Joseph was bom last July 27 and *'seems to be surviving the affections of his sisters (Susan, 4; Barbara, 2; .Ann, 1) and his brother Mike. 
1956 
John P. Dcasy 5697 N. lincoln Ave. Chicago 45, lUmois 
From the Alumni Office: This will he the last column under the by-line of Chicago's JOHN DEASY. who has filled in ably 
"WOMAN WITH SHEEP," semi-abstract welded sculpture by Da\-id Hayes, '53, engrosses a student at the University's O'Shaughnessy Galleries during October's one-man show of sculpture and drawing by Hayes, who has spent the past two years in France with his ^vife and two children as a Fulbright and Guggenheun fellow. (South Bend Tribune photo) 
as correspondent since graduation. President BILL WARREN, noting that John's legal, political or romantic obligations have curtailed his output of news lately, has asked AL Vl'lT to rcoccupy the post to which he u*as elected for the senior year, raililary and other duties having inicrfcrcd with his performance of the job in recent years. 
In the fall llic directors of Uptown Sales Inc., Kankakee, III., honored KENNETH BERGERON as new president of the agency at a big dinner in the Hotel Kankakee. More than 100 employees and friends gathered to obscr\c Ken's 28th birth­day and his promotion to a position vacated by his father, Ed Bergeron, now chairman of the board. Ken had been sales and general manager of the automobile ageno' for the past three years and before that was with Bergeron Pontiac. Ken's wife is the former LaDonna Jackson, and the Bergerons are parents of another Kenneth, not quite 2. Ken is secretary of the Kankakee Auto Dealers Assn., 4th Degree K.of C, etc 
A couple of 1962 weddings that mav or may not have been overlooked: JEROME V. SWEENEY, II, Pittsburgh. 
JOSEPH G. BILL, JR., is a rep for ConnecticuA Mutual Life Insurance Co. with the G. W. Jacksoi^ agency- in Indianapolis. Joe formerly was a special agent for America Fore. His wife is tlic former Grace Rcmbusch. Two classmates are in the Washington, D.C., ofHce. Eastern region of State Farm Mutual. THOMAS RICHARD FALCI­NELLI, formerly of Phillipsburg, N. J., is in the field claim office, having got his LL.B. at George­town. His vvifc is the former Marv- Elizabeth Baluta of Shamokin, Pa. JOHN JOSEPH FITZSLMMONS, a native of Brooklyn in the same office, is working on a law degree in Baltimore. He is married to the former Marv T. Burke of Saratoga Springs, 
N. Y. 
Capt- THOMAS C. BLUBAUGH finished a quali­fication course at helicopter school. Camp Wolters^ Tex. Already a fixed wing pilot, Tom continues ti ^ study chopper flying for the Army. His wife Helen waits in Ml. Vernon, Ohio. 
1957 
John P. McMeel 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Illinois 
FL.\SH . . . FLASH . . . FLASH . . . we have lost a bastion of "blessed singleness" with the pass­ing of our president and my former roommate, DONALD J. BARR, to the sacrificial altar of matrimony. Don took Miss Jane Luigs of Chicago for his wife November 3. Cannot give you a run­down on what fellow classmates attended at this writing but will give you a blow by blow in the next letter. Our congratulations Don, and best wishes for a happy and prosperous life together with many little Barrs to remind you of the good life you once enjoyed on Briar patch but passed up for a smile. . . . 
Spent an evening at the home of DON H.\NEY in Grand Rapids watcliing the Fattcrson-Liston fiasco- Don ts still vrith Lear Corporation an ^ doing well plus going to night school at MiclilgaW State Univ. to attain his master's in Bus. Ad. . . . JOHN GIBBS is now living in Muskegon and is preparing to go into business for himself . . . Another Muskegonitc is JIM MORSE who is doing very well plus having a sports show on a Grand Rapids television station . . . Word has it that Jim will be doing some background work for the Game of the Week next year on national TV. , . , ART KIDOO is now living with his wife and family in St. Joseph, Mo. . . . BOB ECKLAND is losing his roommate STEVE PENNEY. Big Steve was to lake himself a wife come November. 

CLASS OF 1954 activities in 1962 included the '*8V^-Ycar Reunion" in October after the Purdue Game in the basement of 
CShaughncssy Hall, where classmates and wives seemed to be trying to illustrate the Latin l^end on the mural behind them, which ays: ^^Ecce quam bonum et quam joctmdum habitare fratrcs in unum.** Rough translation: ''Bdbold how good and joyful to dwell in brothcriy union." M 
46 Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
ROBERT L. GERVAIS, '55 

L. A. Club's Spaceman (Nuclear Powered) 
Last summer Robert Gcn-ais was ap­pointed Project Engineer in the Missile and Space Division of Douglas Aircraft Company, Santa Monica, California. In his new position, he is responsible for the technical development and management of the RITA project, a nuclear power space vehicle capable of manned orbital, lunar, ^^n d interplanetar>' space flights. Before '^his appointment as Project Engineer, Bob had served as Group Engineer at Douglas 
Our ranks arc dwindling fast. . . . LARRY COOK after graduating from medical scliool joined the Xaxy and is now stationed in Okinawa. BILL RIGALI is living in Chicago and still with the Trane Corp. . . Saw TOM HUGOLET at the 
N.D. - Purdue game. Tom is with IBM and liWng on the south side of Chicago. . . . Also saw 
m 
T. O. DOYLE and his lovely wife Pat at the game. The big floral magnate was up for the week from ^ is Lynchburg homestead. Life is agreeing with 
im, at least his waistline expressed it. . . . 
JIM MORRISON is living in Leadville, Colo­rado. . . . PAT CONWAY is back in Minneapolis after a stay in California, Pat is working for control data. The Conways are parents to a budding young fullback. - . . JIM COUGHLIN is in the family bond business and is married. . . . GEORGE STRAKE is in business with his father in Houston and word has it that he has an eye on the political life. . . . JLM McG;\ULEY (with us our freshman year) is married and living in Houston. . . . Also in that Houston crowd is SAM RIZZO and his wife, Nita, Sam is with Arthur Anderson JOE NEUHOFF and his wile Nancy arc living up in Dallas and have recently been blessed with a new addition to the family. Joe is making up for the poor efforts of such people as JOE REICH, DIXEY LEWIS, H/\L BL/\KESLEE. and JOHN P. Mc­
^lEEL. . . .DON MURILW is still in the Army 
3 u a dentist and presently stationed in St. Louis. . . . MOORE AfcDONOUGH was recently married. We have been told by the feds that part of the hone>*moon *vas spent In Colorado Springs. Re­ports have it that he is doing well with the Rotan Afosle brokerage firm. . • 
The class of *57 expresses its sympathy to WIL-LIAAf HUMMEL whose father passed away last July. Please remember Mr. Hummel in your pray­ers. . . . Congratulations to DENNY TROESTER, who has joined the staff of the University of Notre ^Damc Foundation. Denny was formerly from Sagi-VLw, Michigan. He began his scr\-ice on the 
responsible for all Aero/Astrodynamic work pertaining to nuclear powered space ve­hicles. Prior to this assignment, he was associated primarily with the field of manned space flight and >vas concerned with many of the initial orbital and lunar space programs. 
In addition to his work at Douglas, Bob has presented a number of technical papers related to the fields of re-entry, and inter­planetary' space flight before several tech­nical societies. He has also contributed articles to technical journals and books, while also lecturing at several Universities. His professional affiliations include; Senior Member of the .American .-\stronautical So­ciety, .•\ssociate Fellow of the British Inter­planetary Society, and membership in the Institute of .Aerospace Sciences and South-em California Professional Engineers .Asso­ciation. 
A native of Chappaqua, New York, Bob attended Fordham Prep in New York City and subsequently received Bachelor and Master of Science degrees in aeronautical engineering from the University. .After an affiliation with the United States Air Force he continued his education at the Univer­sity of California in Los .Angeles in the fields of nuclear rocketry and astrody­namics. Still active in Universit>' activities, he is currently president of the Notre Dame Club of Los Angeles, the youngest man ever to hold this position. Prior to his election, he had served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Club since 1960. 
He and the former Rose Margaret O'Neill (Rosary '56) of Chicago were mar­ried in 1957. Parents of four children, the Gervais family resides in West Los Angeles, California. 
foundation staff Sept. 17. representing the Univer­sity in the field. For the past four years he has been associated with Continental Casualty Company in Washington, D. C. and Detroit, Michigan. He has been a member of the AVashington, Detroit, and Saginaw Valley Notre Dame clubs. Denny can count on the assistance and cooperation from liis classmates across the country*. 
Depending on everyone to contribute to this class letter. So far participation has been nil. (E.\cuse me, JOSEPH REICH came through to help make this issue at least reprcsentabic.) Let's get on the ball!! 
From the .Mumni Office: 
Last August PAUL HORNUNG turned down a §250,000 three-year deal with another football team to stay with the Green Bay Packers. "Nobody^s worth that much," said the Golden Boy, and it turned out he wouldn't have been. A standout in the exhibition season, Paul has been hampered by injuries most of the autumn. It didn't bother the Packers much, undefeated until thev tangled with the Detroit Lions (minus NICK PIETROSANTE, *59) on Thanksgiving. Meanwhile, Paul continues to pilch for Marlboro cigarettes, etc. Congrats to the "classmate most likely to. . ." Also to CHUNG WAH NG, the mechanical engineer, who got his Ph.D. at R.P.L this year. .\rmy Capt. BURTON 
A. LESH, most recently of Schoficld Barracks, left Hawaii for Thwland with the 25th Division's 35th Infantr>', with which he's in the 1st Battle Group. Aloha. PAUL H. JOHNSON is teaching English at Canisius College, Buffalo, N. Y- .\ cum laudc at N.D., Paul has been teaching at Germantown Academy, Philadelphia, since 1958 and has a master's from Penn, where he's now working on a doctorate in English lit. On the rolls of Allied Chemical Corp. Is sociology major FR,ANCIS G. LUNDEN. In mid-October, Hawaii»s RICHARD 
K. MURATA, transplanted to Arlington, Va., became an assistant sales promotion manager for .Allegheny Airlines, serving 12 states from New England to Ohio and Michigan. Dick has been with Allegheny for five years and supervisor of passenger revxnue accounting since I960, also cur* rently treasurer of Allegheny's credit union. After his political science degree he had two years of work at Georgetown Law School and four years of Army service. Dick and his wife (the former Gwen Lum of Honolulu) have a daughter, Terry, 
7. When last heard of, Pittsburgh's JAMES W. O'CONNOR was with Standard Oil in Detroit. 
1958 
Arthur L. Ronlc, Jr. 1709 TnHiana Avcniie LaPort^ Indiana 

.Although this edition of the class news Is being written in mid-October, let me take this opportunity to wish all a happy holiday season and the best of evcr>-thing for the neiv year. Included in this wish for the best of everything in 1963 is the hope that you will be able to attend our Class Reunion, scheduled for June 14, 15, and 16, on the campus. The Alumni Office expends consider­able time and effort in planning this reunion, but its ultimate success depends upon YOUR attendance. So plan now on taking part; contact other class members in your area and make travel arrange­ments; and count on having a high old time —this opportunity comes only once in every five years. 
So much for the reunion pitch, now to the news. Tlie first item in the news basket is an annoiuice­ment from JIM McNAMARA and his wife Lynn on the arrival of their second child, Kathleen ifarie — born September 7, 1962, in New Orleans. Likewise, JOHN SULLIVAN and wife Mar>- Anne report the arri\-al of their third, John Patrick, bom September 10, 1962. And on October 20, 1962, ART BROWN was married to Patricia Ann O'Rourke in Albuquerque. N. M. 
VINCE WEHBY sent along some fine neu-s from Nashville recently, reporting that he was appointed an assistant U.S. district attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee. Vince graduated from Van­derbilt Law School in June of 1961. He would, by the ^vay. like to hear from BOB LANDRY, TOM FARRELL. FRANK CRINELLA, and CHUCK VANONCINL 
BUD McGlVERN sends the following news: After graduation from N. D. Bud entered dental school at ^Vcstem Reserve In Cleveland, and received his degree last June. He is now taking grad studies in oral surgery at NYU, after which he will begin internship at Bellevue in New York. On September 2, 1961, Bud was wed to Diane O'Neill of Cle\e­land and St. John College (nursing division). Diane is also studying at NYU under a federal grant and will receive an M.S. In nursing. Bud also reports the wedding of BLASDEL REARDEN to Jean Afarie Ellenberg in Cincinnati. Also in attendance were AL ALLEN, TIM HARRIGAN, and BILL BOURNE. In addition Bud has reccndy en­countered ^VALT HUURMAN (at JOHN "AP­PLES'* MCDONALD' S wedding in Cleveland), GENE BERTONCINI (currently selling bonds for 
C. F. Childs & Co., Ne^v York), and JIM FEENEY. 
BOB COLAIZZI has apparently come up with one of those dream jobs in Uncle Sam's military establishment. Bob went through Navy O.C.S. and is now in his fourth year of Navy 5cr\*icc. He is stationed in HoUy^vood and is attached to the NavY Unit of the .Armed Forces Public Information Office (the Navy representative unit for press, radio, television, and the films). The chief facet of this duty is acting as liason between the Navy and the motion picture industry (i.e. technical script advice, procurement of Navy ships and equipment for filming). During the last season Bob was work­ing with the *'Hennessy" T.V. series; however, he is now assigned to the "Ensign O'Toolc" series on N.B.C. 
.Another nuptial notice comes from JOHN PICKEN reporting his marriage on May 30, 1961, to Virginia Griffard of Ber%vyn, Illinois. John is now interning at Mercy Hospital, Chicago, follow­ing graduation from Stritch School of Kfedicine. 
JOE BRENNAN, S.J., (who entered the Jesuits after the first semester of our Junior year) writes from West Baden College, West Baden, Ind., where he is currently studying for a M.A. in English and a Licentiate degree In Philosophy, reporting that 
NotTc Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
HUGH HICKEY» wife Beth, and son Mark, arc in St. Charles, III., where Hugh is working for International Har\ester. JIM SCHERER, who was married on August 25, 1962, to Donna Scticrcr (no. that is not a misprint, the name is the same) is now studying for an M. A. at Catholic Univ. and teaching at Augustinian High School in Wash­ington. MIKE GLEASON is with Raymond Inter­national constructing Atlas missile bases in Xcv\­York. WILL JONCAS is with Continental Can on the West Coast. And DAVE .McXUTT is also with the Jesuits at West Baden. 
JOE BUMBLEBURG, whom I last encountered while taking the Bar Exam in Indianapolis, in July of 1961, is now in the .\rmy Judge .Advocate Gen­eral Corps at Fort Gordon, Ga. Joe is Legal Officer with the Civil Affairs Group at said base and in addition is an instructor at the Army CiWl AfTairs School. Joe ran into TO.M CLUSSER^VTH while in Wasliington last Fcbniar>-, where Tom is em­ployed by the S.E.C. 
A note from ANDY SULLIVAN reveals that he is with the Chicago brokerage firm of Cruttenden, Podesla & Miller, and that he is also studying for a Master's degree in business. JERRY BURKE has begun his otvn law practice on Chi­cago's South Side. JACK AM-ANS' recently term­inated his tour with the Xaxy and last October (1961) welcomed Number One Son. John. Jr. 
TOM BARTHOLOMEW writes from the Pacific where he is flying jet helicopters on antisubmarine duty from the U.S.S. Hornet. Tom will be mar­ried to Miss Cathy Beck, of Pomona. Calif., upon his return to the States. Tom also reports that BUD ENRIGHT is now out of the Xa\-\- but plans to remain in Honolulu with his wife June. Bud is now with I.B.M. 
JOE LESLIE is placement manager of Tom McCall & .Associates, Inc., a nationwide placement agcnc>'. Joe is anticipating an addition to his family in January (hopefully a male) to accompany daughter Linda NIaric, who will then be two years old. LLOYD SYROX is managing a golf club in Fontiac, Midi. JIM MRUS now has two children. Tommy (2) and Susan (newly arrived), and is personnel manager of a Troy. O.. firm. PAT DOHERT\' and family are living in Cliicago where Pat is with the Tribune in retail advertising. 
Finally wc have a note from Class Prex>- DON* MCNEILL, CS.C , who has now been in the semi­nar>- for three years, part of which time has been spent at Moreau Seminarj-. Xotre Dame. Don has just left for Rome where he will spend the next four years studying theology-. JOHX McCARTHY (Don's roommate) as previously reported is studying for the priesthood with the Dominicans. Before embarking for Rome, Don had a x'acation during which time he ran into BILL CAHILL, who recent­ly became a pappy; KEVIN' REILLY and wife Mar>*annr, who also recentlv became parents: HUGH PLUNKETT; and FR.\NK FOX, currently in Cincinnati with .American Can Co. PHIL PRASSAS is in the family firm in Winnctka and very active in Young Republican circles. AL STEPAN after spending two years at Oxford and considerable time with the Marines is now in the Far East for at least a year. TOM GARSIDE and family are in St. Louis where Tom is finishing med school. 
That takes care of the news for now. Thanks to the contributors. And remember . . . WE WAX'T YOU .AT THE FIVE-YE.AR REUXIOX —JUXE 14, 15 and 16. 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES L. McDON'ALD is now an instructor of English at the Uni\-ersity of Detroit, with an M.A. 
A MOMEN-rOUS ANNOUNCEMEN-T: 
Marine Lieut. D.AVID W. S.AXON, HI, and his wife became the parents of an eight-pound, one-ounce son, David W,, IV, Sept. 19 in Memphis. The event made a grandfather out of D.AVID W. SAXON, JR., '29, and a great-grandfather out of P. A. McPHlLLIFS (1892-94) who, at the tender age of 89, must be one of Notre Dame's oldest li\-ing alumni. At the baptism Oct. 7, Dave's brother Lieut, (j.g.) EUGENE 
M. SAXON, *59, was godfather-by-prox>', serx-ing aboard the USS Casa Grande, re­turning from its second tour of duty with the Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean. Dave 
(III) Is legal officer with the Marine air detachment at the Naval Air Station, J^Itngton, Tenn. 

DAVID COOK, '59, now a senior medical student at St. Louis U., is shown with Sister Mary Liguori, physician and surgeon in charge of Sisters of Mercy Hospital, Janishedpur, India, where Dave spent last summer on a foreign fellowship from Smith Kline & French Laboratories, a leading pharmaceutical firm. 
and a Ph.D. in the works from Northwestern. .A Cincinnati native, Jim now lives in Detroit with his wife Josephine. Staff Sgt. JOHX P. VOLSKE has been taking part in X.ATO maneuvers in Ger­many with the 26th Signal Battalion^s Headquarters in Ludwigsburg. South Bend's RICHARD J. SLOTT recently departed for Valencia, Spain, with the U.S. diplomatic service, taking along wife (a native of Indianapolis and former speech-hearing therapist in the Misliawaka school s\*stem) and two children, Kathleen Sue, 4, and Richard Jerome, 1. The family recently spent 27 months in Panama, where Dick was attached to the U.S. Embassy. 
JOHN L. ROCHE of Chicago, now out of the .Armv, was reported dickering with Illinois Bell Telephone, ANTHONY FILOSA is now an Internal Revenue agent. JOHX E. SHEPHERD has become associated with the law firm of Flynn, Py & Kruse in Sandusky, O. John got his LL.B. at Western Reser\'c last year and has been practic­ing law with Murrav & Murray in Sandusky; he's married and has a son. ROBERT THOMAS JUXGELS got an M.A. from the Stale U. of Iowa in .August. JOHN J. LIESKI has been made a line salesman for U.S. Gypsum in Xorthern Illinois. On Okinawa, GERALD R. WETZEL recently became a captain with the 61st Artillery and commander of Baltcr\- B. His wife Glenelle is with him. Former Air Force 1st Lieut. XICHOLAS BARTO­LINI is reported to have hired on with Ford Motor Co. And JOSEPH R. CHERNEY is now a hyd­raulic engineer with the U.S. Geological Sur\"cy, Department of the Interior. 
Word from ART ROULE on the Michigan State game reunion next issue. 
1959 
Dennis M. Ncad 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

RICHARD ROYER "The Head" or belter known as the underrated number 84, was married this September 29th to Susie Schiller of Sayler Park, Ohio. The honeymoon ^^'as spent in Chicago and was interrupted by a trip to South Bend for the Purdue game the results of which we'll let pass for the time being. SHANNON SMITH com­pleted his three-year tour of service in the Air Force and is now enrolled at the University of Cincin­nati working tou-ard his master's degree in English. 
After a year's employment with Arthur Young accountants in New York, MARK KESSENICH entered business school this fall at Wharton in Philadelphia. TERRY BERNARD was married to Sue Alasko of South Bend in October of '61 and is now employed with the Ford Motor Company in Lavonia, ^fich. TOM FELTZ is working with 
North American Aircraft in Los Angeles. Tom's 
home is in Celina, O. 
BOB TURICCH: was married this past March 3^ 
to Rachel Cajero in Whittier, Calif.; a selection for 
the draft, both are spending their early years some­
where in the Far East. MIKE MANLEY was dis-
chai^ed from the Marines in May of '62 and is 
now employed by the Fides Publications on ihc 
Notre Dame campus. 
MIKE BRADY was married to Sandy Brady 
of Fort Myere, Fla., August 26, 1961; he was 
graduated from N. D. Law in '62 and is now 
working in the tax department for the Procter and 
Gamble Co. in Cincinnati. 
JOHN HOLMES now resides with his wife in 
East Lansing and has entered Michigan State for 
his doctorate — business, I believe. DICK SEL­
CER is the present backfield coach at Xavier 
University and thus far has played an important 
role in recruiting and scouting. TOMMY H.\W-" 
KINS has joined professional basketball's Cincin­
nati Royals. His family was to join him in 
November. 
JIM HILLIARD and his wife Nora now have 
three boys and, I believe, had another addition this 
September; he is working for the Cook County 
Welfare Department and attending night school at 
Loyola. BOB VONDRASIC is working as a trainee 
at Post, Morr and Gardner Advertising. JIM 
HAXLON and hts wife have two girls, and Jim 
works for an ad agenc>' as assistant account execu­
tive on the Mars Candy account. 
DAVE BARRETT and JOE HOG.AN both reside 
at 116 Rumscy Street, SE, Washington, D.C., and 
arc in their first year of law at Georgetown. 
JOHN BELIVEAU is also at Georgetown Law and| 
now entering his second vear. 
THOMAS RALSTON HAYES' wife Sliaron had 
their first child this past August and young 
Michael will be faced with trying to follow his 
father's memorable footsteps, slides, spills, and 
what have you. The decorated former Pvt. at 
Fort Meade, Md., is now with the Kemper In­
surance .Agcnc\' in Pasadena. 
From the .Alumni Office: Army 1st Lt. HARVEY J. FREM finished chcmi­cal-biological-radiological officer training at Fort McClellan, Ala., in October. JAMES M. ANSBRO has hired on with Sperrv Gyroscope Co. as an assistant engineer. HARRY D.ANIEL LEINEN­WEBER finished tn the upper quarter of his class at the U, of Chicago Law School last December^^ passed the Illinois Bar Exam in March, and ha^ taken up practice in Joliet. FREDERICK ^L LAVIN of Snyder, N.Y., won the $250 first prize in the Nathan Burkan Memorial Competition at Vtllanova Law School, Philadelphia, for papers on copyright law, sponsored by A.S.C.A.P. in honor of the society's first counsel. Fred was a comment editor on the Villanova Law Review, ranked first in his class two years, earned the Order of the Coif and was active in moot court and the Car­dozo Law Club before graduation. After his mili­tary obligation he intends to practice law in Buffalo, X.Y. DAVID M. COOK, now a senior in St. Louis U. Medical School, won a Smitli Kline & French Laboratories foreign fellowship which permitted him to 5er\c last summer at M new Sisters of Merc>- Hospital in Jamshedpur" India. DANIEL E. BEH.MER got an M.A. in edu­iration at Western Reserve last summer. B. ROB­ERT KILL has been advanced to assistant sales manager of La Choy Food Products, responsible for sales and promotion of the Chinese-.American foods in the Midwest. Bob has an M.B..A. from Micliigan State. HARRY CORCORAN KOENIG hired as a program officer with the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs in September. PAUL R. STEW­ARD is now an Internal Revenue agent. ROBERT 
J. JOHNSTON is now public relations officer for Milu*aukee Federal Savings & Loan Assn., follow­ing service as p.r. manager for the Milwaukee Assn. of Commerce. PHILIP IRVING CONNORS got his M.S. in physics last September I at Penn State. R. E. BORLIK has signed on with R.C..A., Camden, N.J. JOHN CLINTON PANTER, JR., is an assistant field director for the .American National Red Cross. GENE DUFFY put aside h ^ career in pro baseball to become assistant supeM visor of athletics at Creighton U.. Omalta, Neb. PHILIP I. CONNORS has his M.S. in physics from Penn State. First Lt. ROBERT J. YOUNG finished an instructors course at Maxwell AFB and was assigned to the Ci\-il Engineering Center, Wright-Patterson AFB, Ohio. With a master's in 
M.E.
 ('61), Bob will teach engineering. EDWARD 

J.
 MALONE is a junior engineer with the AC Spark Plug Division of General Motors, Milwaukee. JOHN F. MCLAUGHLIN is an Air Force 2nd Lt. at Luke Williams Range, Ariz. THOMAS ^ SMITH is with the Arizona Bank in PhoeniV 


4S Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 
ulierc he's moved with wife Mao' and children ^^athlcen Marie (2) and Kevcn Martin (8 months). rk ^m}rad school classmate PETER A. LAPPAN, JR., 
a transplant from Princeton, is nou' teaching math at Lehigh U., Bethlehem, Pa. And ANTONIO 
S. ARANETO was still at Lincoln College, Ox­ford, at last report. 
1960 
John F. Geicr 
715 La Crosse Avenue 
Wilmette, Illinois 

From the Alumn! OiHcc: Marine Isi Lt. LARRY G. MITCHELL of Winslow, Mc., finished chemical-biological-radio­logical officer training at Army (?) Chemical School, Fort McClellan, .Ma., in Octoher. Larr>­has been in the Corps since graduating in physics. Finishing the course at thr same time was Army 1st Lt. .MICHAEL R. McKEE of Topcka; Mike got his master's at Columbia last year. At Ohio's ^Kent State U., DANIEL J. CONVERSE got a ISlnaster's in education last August; he hails from Sheffield Lake, O. RONALD H. BL/VKE, another Topckan, got an Air Force coinmi-ssioii after train­ing at Lackland AFB and was sent to Little Rock .•\FB, Ark., as a missile officer. Ron's wife is the former Belle Stiles of Bridgeport, Conn. JOHN J. BURNS has been appointed as an Inlemal Revenue agent and is now undergoing training. Army Pvt, ROBERT J. LEONE trained as an M.P. al Fort Gordon. Ga., after basic at Leonard Wood last spring. Bob was working for Pepsi Cola in Chicago before his call. And 2nd Lt. LEONARD J. MULLER finished training in the fall as a Medical Service Corps officer at Brooke Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Tex. He worked at Mac Neal Memorial Hospital, Ber­w\-n, III., before entering last July, and wife Judith is at home in Oak Park. ^ PAUL T. SMITH wrote from Boston: "Tlie dearth of information In the 1960 column . . . hxs prompted me lo drop a line to you about what I've been doing. .. . I got out of the Navy as a LIcui. (j.g.) on Aug. 6, and come this Satur­day (Sept. I), I %vill marrj' Carole Ann DlugoleU' ski in Si. Brigid's Church, \Vestbur>\ L.I. This past Tuesday FATHER CHARLES HARRIS stop­ped by, en route to Xotre Dame after a year of study and research at the University of Leiden, Holland. He obtained for Carole and me the Papal Blessing. . . . (We) will make our home in Boston while I attend Har\-ard Business School. Carole will work, at least for a while, at New England Deaconess Hospital, so I'll start school by the sweat 
^^>f my frau, so to speak. BILL ROCHE lives In the 
^sam e apartment building that we will occupy and is welt on his way to obtaining an M.D. from Tufts. Bill will be mv best man, and other Domer ushers arc GENE SPEJEWSKI and LARRY V.\NCE. . . .'* 
THOMAS H. CALLAHAN signed on with California Division of Highways last year and is presumably still In Los Angeles. WILLIAM £. GRUNERT got his master's in M.E. this year and joined the slafT of the Tonawanda Laboratories of the Linde Company, a division of Union Carbide in Tonawanda, N.Y. He's in the engineer­ing development lab, gas products dcpt. JAMES STEWART TAYLOR has been elected assistant secretary* of the CTS Corp. In Elkhart, Ind., of which he has been legal counsel since graduation with an LL.B. Jim and his wife, the former Joyce Rodewald of Elkhart, have two children. 
MON*TY STICKLES got a good start this pro 

i^football season playing with the San Francisco 49ers. 
iPWALTER K. SHERWIN, JR.. got an M.A. from Ohio State in September. PATRICK J. ROACHE is an instructor in aeronautical engineering at the 
U. of Detroit College of Engineering and Archi­tecture. Recently married (see statistics), HER­BERT R. MOELLER got his M.S. in physics on the campus this year and in the fall started study­ing for his Ph.D. in the physics dept. of Texas 
A. & M. 
Army 2nd Lt. JOHN M. COLE of Manchester, 
N.H., finished officer orientation in September at 

^•the transportation school, Fort Eustls, Va. John 
W|o t a master's this year from the U. of Chicago. 
ALUMNI SEMINARIANS of the Congregation of Holy Cross receiving asugnmcnts in summer ceremonies at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., included: (kneeling, L-r.) Stephen Gomes, *62, Dacca, East Pakistan; Joseph H. Carey, '62, Detroit, Mich.; Charles 
R. Nowery, '60, Shrevcport, La.; Richard P. Zang, '61, Kcwance, III.; (standing, L-r.) Joseph DeVIiegher, '52, Mishawaka, Ind.; George O'Connell, '61, Holyoke, Mass.; and Richard Daggett, '60, Cheboygan, Mich. Gomes, Carey, and Zang received the habit as novices, while the others completed their novitiate and will continue study for the priest­hood at Moreau Seminary on the campus, having pronounced their first vows. 
Reser%e Pvt. WILLIAM J. .MOORE of Detroit 
put in infantr%' training at Fort Ord. Calif. MAR­
VIN DAVID ANDERSON Is a student at George­
town School of Medicine, Washington, and his 
mother says he wishes to be remembered to evcr\'­
one from FATHER HESBURGH up to BROTHER 
CON.VN. DENNIS SHAUL, back from two years 
as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford, beat out a Har\-ard 
man as president of the National Students Assn. 
at the lath national congress in Columbus, O. 
.\ew York's Lt. PAUL KUSBACH, after com­
pleting his .Army tour with the II Corps (with 
a Certificate of Achievement), returned to N.D. 
Law School. Wife Mar>-, daughter of Prof. WIL­
LL\M ROE.MER, is with him In South Bend. 
LEO ISADORE PHILIPPE got an .M.A. recently 
from the U. of Minnesota. U.S. Gypsum moved 
L. J. HANLOCK from inventor\' coordinator to Univac programmer. JEFFREY T. HAMILTON Is in technical management at the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center, Huiitsville. Ala. RICHARD C. D.AGGETT and CHARLES R. NOWERY have completed their novitiate, taken their first vows and returned to N.D. to continue their studies for the priesthood at Moreau Seminarj*. 
1961 
Nick Palihnick 34 Dartmouth Road West Orange, N. J. 
If some of the news in this following issue of the ALUMNUS appears a bit dated, I am offering my apology* now. The reason for this is that because of a space limitation. I have not been able to include all news items in the past issues. I will attempt to rectify matters in this article. 
I received a ver\- informative letter from FRANK VCHICK" ANNESE a few months back, relating of his scheduled marriage to Miss Dominica Mysklw on Sept. 8, 1962. Chick completed a computer course with Uni%-ac In Newark. N,J., last spring and was expecting a definite sales territory- assign­ment in the Syracuse area in the fall. Some other news from the Syracuse area: GEORGE KANE completed a year of graduate work in education at the University of Syracuse. JOHN BIRD fin­ished his first year of Medical School at the Uni­versity of Buffalo. John's former roommate. PAUL NISSI, also completed a year of grad school at Boston University Business School. BILL CRONIN has been working for Underwood-Olivetti In While Plains, N.Y., since last October. PETE MURPHY, noiv living In Tarrytown, N.Y., is working for Ingersoll-Rand. Bill and Pete took a little trip to the Midwest last spring to test their postgraduate form on the *'Belles of St. Mar>-*5." 

MIKE WARD, who is now working for the Union Carbide Chemicals Co., was preparing for a Nov. 17 marriage to Miss Pat Hersley in Yonk­ers, N.Y. Birth announcements for the following couples: Mr. and Mrs. TONY MONSOUR arc the proud parents of a baby boy, Thomas Paul. Tony is now working for the Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. In Syracuse. Donna and JOHN CAVALIER now have two beautiful daughters, the second arriving last November. Last spring John completed a year of business school at .Michigan Slate. Patsy and TOM E.M.MER were blessed with their second child, a girl baptized Bridget. Reports are she looks just like her mother . . . she must be a doll. A special apology to Joan and CHARLES LENNON for a late announce­ment of the birth of their first son, Kevin Charles, born last April. Kevin Charles Lennon — if this guy doesn't end up on the Notre Dame campus in 18 years, no one will. Charley spent last spring as a ver>' able assistant to JAKE KLINE In lead­ing the Notre Dame Nine to a successful season while also attending grad school at the University. 
MIKE SHEEDY is currently working for the Carrier Corp. in Syracuse. In the Augtist, 1962 issue of the ALUMNUS I stated that TONY MUSA was the head football coach at Cardinal Newman High School in West Palm Beach, Fla. I stand corrected; Tony Is assistant football coach. My apology to Coach Budnyk at Cardinal New­man. 
MOSE GLYNN, after devoting a year of study in Greek and Latin at the Junior College of St. Mar>' of the Lake Seminary, has now moved into the major seminary for the Chicago Diocese. I received a short note from my close friend, BRO. PASCHAL, who is teaching in Hillside. N.J. 
JOHN PIDICK, who worked for Hasklns and Sells' C.P.A. firm In Chicago after graduation, is now in the process of completing a two-year tour of duty with the Army at Fort Hood, Texas. BRIAN REGAN, a 2nd Lt. In . the Marines, is presently on duty at Quantico, Va. He is also engaged to Sharon Strametz and the two are to be married in Jollet, III., on Nov. 24, 1962. JIM MURPHY is currently attending a 26-week basic school required of all newly commissioned officers from the Marine Corps School, Quantico, Va. As of Dec. 10, 1962. Pat and BILL HALL will be stationed at Lubbock, Tex., where Bill will be an instructor pilot at Reese A.F.B. Pres­ently Bill is attending pilot instructor's school at Randolph A.F.B., Tex. Bill informs me that 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 49 
BILLY NASSER has completed his research studies at Oklahoma University and Is now working in Shrcvcport, Tex. JIM VERDICK is at Lackland A.F.B, in San Antonio. Tex. Lt. BRENDOX O'NEILL is stationed at Moodv A.F.B., Tct.. as a supply officer. Ensign GENE CINCOTTA, commissioned Feb. 9, 1962, is currently stationed aboard the U.S.S. Hunt, Ma%-port, Fla. 
Flash: — ROGER McMAHON is married. I can't believe it! Rog was commissioned an Ensign in the Nav>- on Aug. 17, 1962, and was married on the following day to Miss Marv- Adikcs. He has been stationed in Sicily for two years* shore duty. Luciano, Caponc, Anastasia, and McMahon — Sicilians will never be the same. 
FRANK GIACOPELLI was engaged to Terry Lastritto on May 18, 1962. Frank is working for Hazeltinc Electronics in Little Xeck, Long Island. It will be a June wedding in '63. Last July 14 JIM UHLL was married to Mar>- .-^nn Crocker and the couple is now liWng in Cassopolis, Mich. Jim is working for I.B.M. in South Bend. JAY MUN­DRY, a former classmate, was best man at the wedding and TIM FLEMING and DAVE LEE also attended the wedding. A repeat perform­ance was held on July 21; however, this time the participants were Ann and DAVE MAHER, the wedding taking place in Chicago. 
BOB MAHONY returned for his second year of Law School at Loyola in the fall. TO.M LAMB spent his first year after graduation abroad, en­rolling in the University of Seville while living in Se\*ille, Spain. He also attended the St. Isabellc of Hungary- Art School in Seville. This year he plans on JoUowing a career in architecture and hopes to remain at least one more year abroad. MIKE SAMMON, also returning to Loyola Law School for his second year, is hoping for a com­mission in the Armv after completing Law School. DAX'E HUDSON, after receiving his M.A. in modem European history at Columbia, spent the summer working at Yoscmitc National Park. This past fall he has won a tuition scholarship as a Ph.D. candidate at Columbia. Congratulations to JIM SKAHAN, who was elected as the class repre­sentative to the Student Bar Association at Boston College Law School. 
WALT "I'm no turtle" RIEBN.ACK was mar­ried to Miss. Mar>* Ann Smith (S.M.C. '61) on July 14, 1962. Walt is attending Notre Dame Law School. In passing may I iayi "Walt, I am sure you are not a turtle now!'* RAY RATKOW­SKI is now in officer candidate school at Quantico, Va., and is also playing ball for the Marines at the same time. TOM ZIPPRICH, when last heard of, was planning on attending Na\'>' O.C.S. in Newport, R.I. 
Class President PAT NEE'S venture into the political scene was a successful one. Pat defeated a twenty-two year incumbent for the office of the State Representative in the General Court (Massa­chusetts Legislature). He was the first candidate ever to run for the office the first time and win. Pat also received the highest vote in the Ward's history. Pat has been in contact with me and has informed me that he is working on rescr\'ing a section for the Syracuse game in Yankee Stadium 
PERU — The native N.D. Clubbers in Lima and environs made honorary members of nine students who spent the summer working in Giudad dc Dios, a destitute parish nearby. Sixteen students engaged in similar private "peace corps*' projects in Mexican towns. 
in the fall of '63. I mentioned this in my last article in the ALUMNUS but for those of you who missed this Issue I will explain the procedure again. Tlie ticket program for the Syracuse game will be run on the "first" football ticket mailing. This means that in order for you to sit in the class section for the Syracuse game you must be on the "first" mailing list. The question arises, "How does one get on the first mailing Ibt?" In order to be on this mailing list you must be a contributing alumnus. To be a contributing alum­nus you must have sent at least one dollar to the Alumni Fund before the first of January, 1963. The seating plan for the Syracuse game in New York will be arranged on the basis of the returns from the "first" mailing list. It should be a terrific ball game and an excellent chance to renew old acquaintances, so please do your best to make 
From the Alumni Office: 
^\^LLIAM "RED** MACK has had some good moments with the Pittsburgh Steelcrs this season. Army 2nd Lt. JOHN CAVALIER finished officer orientation at the Quartermaster School, Fort Lee, Va., in October; he got an M.B.A. from Michigan State this year. John's wife is the former Donna Jean Elliot. The couple have two children. An­other shavetail, WILLIAM D. PFLAUM (brother of GEORGE PFLAUMj '54) got a commenda­tion medal for outstanding service as an adjutant in transportation school at Fort Eustb, Va. A third, STRATFORD E. STEPAN (son of ALFRED 
C. STEPAN, '31), finished Ranger training in infantr>- school, Fort Benning, Ga. RICHARD PAUL ZANG of Kcwanec, III., received his habit as a Holv Cross novice at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., recently. GEORGE O'CONNELL has finished there, taken first vows and returncdA to Morcau Seminar)'. 
Lt.. JOHN R. LECHNER should have mustered out of the Army by now. Pvt. ROBERT S. DEVERE.\UX, JR., Is putting in his reserve duty In food services, having trained at Fort Leonard Wood, Mo. CHARLES RIECK, now BROTHER JOEL RIECK, O.P., is no longer in Winona as reported last August. He's assigned to the Domini­can House of Studies, St. Thomas Aquinas Prior>*, River Forest, III., studying philosophy. ROBERT 
C. GRONDIN is now an officer of the Internal Revenue Service out of Greensboro, N.C. PAUL BOGNER, an Army rescr\'Ist, took a disbursing* specialist course at Fort Benjamin Harrbon, Ind., last fall. JOHN M. GENTEMPO took a radlo­telct>'pc course at the Southeastern Signal School, Fort Gordon, Ga. 
D.AVID J. BRYAN of Salem, O., was commis-^ sloncd at Lackland AFB, Tex., and assigned to duty at Hahn AB, Germany. Lt. EDWARD J. ABEL, JR., is serving with the Third Marine Air Wing, Helicopter Unit, presently stationed outside of Saigon, Soutl^ Vietnam. Ed has taken several trips to Tokyo and Hong Kong and lists both among the most fascinating cities In the world. DANIEL A. GREEN and JAMES J. RAY started last year as electrical engineers with the U. S. Dept. of Interior, Bureau of Reclamation. JAMES 
M. WHITE has an M.B.A. from Ohio State. THEODORE J. WYNNE and PAUL F. ZIKA were last reported with the California Division of 
LEHIGH VALLEY—Delayed photos of last spring's gala Universal Notre Dame Night in AUentown, Pa., at which the principals were (from left): Prof. Frank 0*Malley of the N.D. English department, campus guest; Hugh P. McFadden, named 1962 N.D. Man of the Year; Bob Straley, *53, Lehigh Valley Club preddcnt; and James Michener, distinguished author and principal speaker of the evening. 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus^ Year End^ 1962 
WASHINGTON — Last spring the Notre Dame lawyers of the District of Cohunbia honored Federal District Judge-elect WX^am B. 
^|oncs/28, at a reception and dinner at the Congressional Country Club. At the head table (l.-r.) arc Val Dcalc, Howard SchcDenbuig, Judge Jones, Father Rehage, John McGrath and Ed Menard. Other participants (l.-r.) were Henry Shine, A] Treauz, Jim fjndisj Tom Carney, Tom Markey, Bill Mahoney, Tom McKevitt, Walter Murphy, Larry Carr, Jim Welch, Jim Kearney, George Mol^e, Jim Mniray, Pat Gorman, Frank Hoffman, Joe Clancy, Roman Gcrber, Tom Clusserath, George Patterson and Sam Borzillieri. 
Highways m Los Angeles. FRANK MICHAEL GEDDES of Tucson, Ariz., won a fellowship for his second year at Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration, at the end of which he'll receive an M.B.A. NEAL W. GALIONE got an if.S. in management at R.P.L FREDERICK C. FRANCL is a physicist with the Dcpt. of Com­merce, Bureau of Standards. THOMAS J. MU­GHAL has moved to Marquette. Mich., where the 
^^lusials have two children and Tom is assistant professor of English at Northern Michigan College. DANIEL LYONS has been with the group insur­ance department of New York Life Insurance Co. since last December. FRANK DINGER is with the 1st Battle Group of the Seventh Cavalr>- Regi­ment in Korea (A.P.O. 24). As a postscript to NICK PALIHNICH's announcement on PAT NEE, Pat defeated a 22-year incumbent Stale Representa­tive. The President of the Massacliusetts Senate called his defeating the entrenched encumbent in Boston's most powerful ward "one of the great political upsets in Massachusetts histor>-." 
Army 2nd Lt. JOHN J. LINEH.\N of Tulsa finished Quartermaster Corps orientation at Fort Lee, Va,, in August. He had been with D-X Oil Co. Wyomissing's (Pa.). 2nd Lt. JOHN F. 
r
ONEY followed Linehan in the same course September. Pvt. EDWARD J. PLUNKETT of Cedar Grove, N.J., is undergoing a year-long course in Arabic at the Language School, Presidio of Monterey, Calif., after basic at Fort Dix, N.J. And Pfc. FRANCIS B. DOGNAUX of Vincennes, Ind., spent August maneuvering in the Carolinas. He's an administrative assistant in the 2nd Logis­tical Command at Fort Lcc, Va. DAVID J. BRYAN has been a civilian digital computer pro­grammer at Headquarters, Air Force Logistics Command, Wright-Patterson AFB, O., since last January*. «
Among Ph.D. classmates, physicist JAMES C. PENLEY is a research associate and assistant ofcssor of physics at the Colorado School of incs, coming to Golden, Colo., from emplo>-mcnt with General Telephone and Electronics Labora' torics. He's married and has two children. And chemist JOHN KROPP has joined Space Tech­nology Laboratories, Inc., a subsidiary of Thompson Ramo Wooldridge, Inc., in Rcdondo Beach, Calif. 
1962 
Terrence McCarthy 
23420 WeUington 
Mt, Clements, Mich. 

DICK TRUYILLO worked for the highway department this summer and is now attending law school at the University of Arizona. JOHN I*r\NEGAN has relumed to Notre Dame after dimmer xvork for the Service Pipe Line Company 
^ ^ Oklahoma. Also back for the last year of engineering is Class President EARL LINEHAN and MIKE HANON. Earl passed the summer away with Humble Oil in Baton Rouge, while Mike worked for Sun Oil. 
BOB BIOLCHININA, a summer bell captain at Yellowstone National Park Hotel, is now in first year law at Georgetown. Some of his classmates there arc STEVE GURCHIK, PAUL BUTRUS and JACK FELIX. 
«
BILL WEINSCHEIMER spent the summer in waii and is now at Northwestern Law School. immer DAVE WITCHGER likes that water, as 
he worked as a life guard and now has gone O.CS. Navy. From Nc%v Jersey %vay we hear that BUCKY O'CONNOR is doing graduate work at Seton Hall. 
Wc were sorry to hear of CARL HOUCK's auto­mobile accident this past summer and we hope Carl has recovered well. 
Although another football season is well under­way, wc congratulate NICK BUONICONTI, who plaved excellently in the All American Game of last' June at Buffalo, and to JOE a\ROLLA, BOB BILL and ANGELO DABERIO, (nice interception Angic) who played in the College All Star Game in Chicago. Captain NORB ROY is playing with the Ottawa Rough Riders. 
Wtcn PAT BOOKER was married in June in New Orleans he had DOUG DRANE, LES BOUDREAUX, and RON MICEK in the wedding party. 
PAT HUGHES, with his wife Marsha, is at Oklahoma Medical School. EARL LINEHAN, BOB BIOLCHINI and JOHN TIDGEWELL were in Pat's wedding party back in August. 
From Ohio we hear that ED LARKIN was married on June 30th to Karen Hasselbroch in Hamilton, Ohio. 
CARL EBEY and JOE COREY arc residing at St. Joseph Hall at Notre Dame and arc beginning theological studies. 
At the close of the summer I heard from JACK CARR and HAYES KAVANAGH, who ^verc then touring the Schlitz Brewery. Hayes has since moved on to school at the University of ifarburg in Germany, where his first act was to join a beer club. 
Hats ofT, and congratulations to TONY BILL on his bright movie career. Tony won a movie plum by being chosen to portray Frank Sinatra's younger brother in "Come Blow Your Horn." (Some 250 hopefuls were intcr\icwed, plus Warren Bcatty, Bobby Darin and Tommy Sands!) 
Your Secretary gives this short report because I am now at University of Detroit Dental School. 
From the Alumni Office: TONY BILL, just mentioned, returned to the campus in November, addressed a couple of classes in communications arts, saw some faculty including 
A.B. Dean FR. CHARLES SHEEDY whose efforts got him in the movies, and gave the Scholastic this quote; "When I was here I was top on the list of complainers. I still don't like the institution, but some of my best friends arc here. That is why I come back to Notre Dame—to see my friends." 
THOMAS FR^VNCIS ARMSTRONG is seeking an M.A. in English teaching at Johns Hopkins. Army 2nd Lts. ROGER S, KIRBY of Bronx­villc, N.Y., and JAMES F. WHEL/\N, JR., of Ridgcwood, N.J., finished transportation officer orientation in October at Fort Eustis, Va- 2nd Lt. THOMAS F. SIKORA finished orientation in the Adjutant General Corps at Fort Benjamin Harri­son, Ind., while wife Nanc>* stayed in South Bend. 2nd Lt. EDWARD F. SPORL trained as an engi­neering officer at Fort Belvoir, Va., a short jet night away from his native Nei*' Orleans. The same can't be said for Hawaii's 2nd Lt. THOALVS 
K. OHTA, who trained as a finance officer at Fort Benjamin Harrison, as did 2nd Lt. JOHN C­SCHUCH.\L\N of Cambria Heights, N.Y. 
In the C.S.C. Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., are JOSEPH H. CAREY of Detroit and STEPHEN G. GOMES of Dacca, East Pakistan. ROBERT J. KENNY got his AW Force commis­sion after training at Lackland AFB, Tex., and was assigned to Brooks AFB, Tex., as an infor­mation officer. John's wife is the former Yvonne Nevelle of South Bend. Army 2nd Lt. FRANCIS 
C. GRAU of Baltimore finished Provost Manlui orientation at Fort Gordon, Ga. Another Ha­waiian, 2nd Lt. FRANCIS A. LOO, trained as a Medical Service Corps officer at Brooke Arxnr Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston, Tex. Another Adjutant General trainee ivas 2nd Lt. MALCOLM 
J. RAIMONDO of Brooklyn, stationed at Fort Benjamin Harrison. ^ 
Also commissioned 'at Lackland was Air Force 2nd Lt. DANIEL W. 0*DONOGHUE, JR., of Washington, D.C., reassigned to Chanute AFB, III., to take a course for aircraft maintenance officers. WILLL\M W. WALSH, JR., is undci^ going indoctrination with A. C. Spark Plug, elec­tronics division of General Motors in Milwaukee, before permanent assignment. And Army 2nd Lt. PATRICK S. MALONEY of Louisville finished infantry officer orientation at Fort Benning, Ga., to qualify as a platoon leader. 
ALUMNI! 
HERE IT IS J! 1962 NOTRE DAME 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 
Featuring: 
•
 Critical analysis of 1962 season 

•
 Individual game reports 

•
 College Sports Writers 1962 AIl-American team, and 

•
 Special reports on: Prospects for 1963 Irish The Freshman team The 1963 Opponents 


Just send 50c, your name, and address to: 
FOOTBALL REVIEW 
SCHOLASTIC 
NOTRJ; DAME, IND. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, Year End, 1962 51 
Office of the President • University of Notre Dame Alumni Association • U.S. Embassy, Accra, Ghana • December, 1962 
In niv final letter a,s President of the .Munini .Xssociation. an office e.sercised by remote control  
from .-\frica. I thought  a  few words might be appropriate about the work the Church and  Notre  
Dame  are  doing  on  the world's  last  Irontier.  I  can  sjjeak  only  for  Ghana,  where  I  have  been  
Lnited  .Slates .Ambassador since last June, but  I  am  certain  our  experience here has its  counter­ 
])art elsewhere  on  this huge  C'ontinent.  
If  any  one  institution  could  be  singled  out  as  having  made  the  greatest  contribution  to  
> BK  '""^  "j  Ghan.-i's line beginning,  it would  be the Christian missionaries. N'arious sects have been workins'  
j^^  ^  ^n .  ^­ '  among  Ghanaians  for many generations under  the most  tiying conditions of disease, jungle, anc'  
^^^ ^  ^Sh^-^^^^ ^  loneliness.  Hiuh  amontr  them  are  the  Catholic  missionaries.  
•^^^ k  ' .  fli^^H.  i  Hy far the most  famous  as well  as  the  most  rugged  are  the \Vhite Fathers, largely French in  
origin, but  now  numbering many Canadians and .Xnicricans.  These men seek out the remote areas  

(called the ""bush"') and are doing their valiant work among the most ])niniiive tribes. They have been at it for years and yet retain all their old spirit. 
For example, one morning while breakfasting with I'isliop Champaigne, a French Canadian, at Tamale .lOO miles north of .Accra. I asked the Bishop how long he had been in northern Ghana. He re]5lied he had come about 40 years ago. When I a.sked how he had managed to get to Tamale. he .said he had walked in. The \Vhite Fathers think nothing of going into the bush alone for weeks at a time to visit theii parishioners. 
.Another .American Order running .schools and parishes that are quite prominent here are the Fathers of the Society of the Divine \Vord. .Although they are found near civilization, they wrestle daily with problems that are truly staggering, t 
The .American missionaries heie who take a back seat to no one for sacrifice and good work are the Medical Mis­sionary Sisters of Philadelphia. .All of them are either doctors or nurses and they have two hospitals and a lepro.sariuni in the bush in west central Ghana. Our family visited their hosijital at Berekum one day on trek and that is a sight I wil! never forget. It was toward the end of the day and Ghanaians by the hundreds were let through the gates to visit hospital­ized members of their families. The nuns were finishing a typical 14-hour day, but you would have thought they had ju­step])ed oil' the boat. The nun in charge remarked she was not sure they are really making many converts but their rewartl was to be able daily to make these friendly ])eople healthier and happier. 
Now about the Congregation of Holy Cross. The Brothers of Holy Cross run a topnotch secondan- (high) school for about 250 Ghanaians at -Sekondi. an old seacoast town 120 miles west of .Accra. The school, headed by Brother Kfym sits on a tro])ical hill overlooking the sea and consists of four or five of the best looking school buildings in western Ghana. .Among the Brothers there are a number of Notre Dame graduates and also two lay teachers who teach courses. George 
A. Uritis (B.S. "57, M.S. '62 i and Michael Sophy (.A.B. '57. M..A. "591. Regarding other Notre Dame men on board, I should mention a few. Paul Doody, a giaduate student in 1957-58, is Executive Secretary of the Fulbright Commission for Ghana, of which I am Chairman. Gerald E. McNernv. '57. is the liead of the Catholic Relief .Senices here, and Gerald F. Meyer. '58, is the -Administrator of the National Institutes of Healtii research project in tropical diseases. Jim Griffin (.A.B. "59), formerly of the South Bend Tribune, is the enterprising cdito: of Ghana's Catholic newspajjer. .A closing word about the local clergy. More so than in any other faith, the Catholic secular clergy of this countr^ are Ghanaians, including the .Archbishop of Ca[)e Coast and the Bishops in Ghana's larger cities. Manv of the priesi 
are native and more will be turned out each year from the new Seminan- for native clcrg\' in West .Africa at Cape Coas: -All of the above makes quite an impression on the .Africans who inhabit this part of the Continent. _ 
Sincerely, 
WILLIAM P. MAHONEV, JR., '38 President ^ 












