The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
NOTKE DAME 

iimii 
SEPTEMBER, 1969 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
80 Years of Thunder 
Another time . • • 
A strong hint of autumn laces the air as the September issue of ALUMNUS 
leaves campus for dissemination among Notre Dame's sons. The University 
has roused itself following a three-month period of reflection, solitude and 
preparation, and it's an exhilarating feeling to see the place return to its true 
status. 

This issue brings news of the University as it embarks on its 127th year and, as in decades past, substantial change will mark the new semester. Our lead story capsulizes the overall ND situation, with emphasis on enrollment figures, the incoming frosh class, faculty changes, the increased coeducational opportunities shared with St. Mary's, and other changes on campus that will be apparent during the fall semester. 
Father Ted Hesburgh, as many are aware, is a sensitive, articulate and brilliant man. His leadership as president of ND is evident in the esteem in ^ which the University has come to be held during his 17-year tenure. He has cogent opinions about many of the important issues and problems of the day and we are running a story based on an informal interview Father granted to a reporter earlier in the summer. The interview should give the reader new perspective about the man who leads Notre Dame. 
The ND Law School, which celebrated its centennial last year as the nation's oldest Catholic law school, has another big year on tap. Integrated with "SUMMA: Notre Dame's Greatest Challenge" is a $6-million fund drive, slated to be used to build a new center and expand total enrollment to about 600. The drive was inaugurated Sept. 19. Its story is included. 
Also covered in this issue is Project Reach, a government-sponsored program designed to stimulate adult education in the uses of communications media; summer activities on campus; and construction of a new life science center. More information about the ND ROMAN ESCAPADE can be obtained simply by utilizing the clip-out coupon on page 11. 
And, of course, we offer our yearly football feature. In attempting to attack the story from a different angle, we thought it might be interesting to capsulize ND's first 80 years of gridiron history. The highlights we've come up with should -be a useful reference to ND football buffs. Here I would pay a special note of thanks to Chet Grant, of the Memorial Library Sports and Games Collection, whose memory I plumbed continually in my search for the highlights. 
We on the staff are happy to welcome back to the fold our two student writers. Bill Mitchell '71 and John McDermott '70, who will again tackle the task of keeping us—and you—on top of the campus scene. Dick Conklin will also continue to contribute his stimulating column and Messrs. Skoglund and Cooney will speak to alumni about alumni matters. 
All in all, it looks like another great year under the Dome and we look forward to bringing it to you. 
Tom Sullivan Managing Editor 

CONTENTS  
University  p.  1  On Record  p. 40  
Class News  p. 10  Alumni Speak  p. 41  
Clubs  p. 33  Alumni Ask  p. 42  
Graduate Schools  p. 37  Feature  p. 43  

Vd. 47 No. 6 September, 1%9 
Juincs D. Cooney EXECUTIVE SECRETAKV 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
John P. Thurin '59 
EDITOR 
Tom Sullivun '66 
MANAGI.N'G EDITOR 
Sandra Lonsfootc 
ASSISTANT EDITOR Caroline Hambuiscr Bill Mitchell '71 John McDennolt '70 
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
M. Brace Harlan '49 CHIE F PHOTOGRAPHER 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION OFFICERS 
Richard A. Rosenthal '54 
HONORARY PRESIDENT 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 
PRESIDENT 
Edu-ard G. Cantwcll '24 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
Edivard B. Fitzpatrick Jr. '54 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
John J. Reidy '27 
VICE-PRESIDENT 
James D. Cooney '59 EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
DIRECTORS TO 1970 
Edu-ard G. Cantwell '24 (PUBLIC RELATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT) 700 Binns Blvd., Columbus, Ohio 43204 
Edward B. FiBpatiick Jr. '54 (STUDENT AF­FAIRS) Wishing Well Farm, Old Brook-ville, N.Y. 11545 
John J. Reidy '27 (ACADEMIC AFFAIRS) 11850 Edgewater Dr., Lakcwood, Ohio 44107 Richard A. Rosenthal '54, P.O. Box 200, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
Leonard H. Skoglund '38 (ATHLETIC, SE.NATE RELATIONS) 426 Dover Ave., LaGrange Park, III. 60525 
DIRECTORS TO 1971 
W. Jerome Kane '38, P.O. Box 37U7, Seattle, Wash. 98124 Walter M. Langford '30, 1315 Otsego St., South Bend, Ind. 46617 Donald F. O'Brien '42. 1113 Rocky River Rd., Houston, Tex. 77027 
FrancU J. Wilson '28, 6105 Howe St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
DIRECTORS TO 1972 
Robert A. Erkins '47, P.O. Box 546, Buhl, Idaho 83316 John T. Massnlati '56, 3917 Broadway, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 Frank L. McGinn '52, 900 BIdg., Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062 Robert L. McGoIdrick '56, 15 Drary Lane, West Hartford, Conn. 06117 Leonard H. Tose '37, 64 W. 4th St., Bridge­port, Pa. 19405 
1969 Notre Dame ALUMNUS, University of Notre Dame, all rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without wTitten permis­sion is prohibited. 
The Notre Dame ALUMNUS is published monthly, except January, March, May, August and November, by the University of Notre Dame. Second.class postage paid at Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


UNIVERSITY 



The march is on: ^69 style 
New is the word which might best characterize activities and faces around ND as the University heads into its 127th academic year. New buildings, programs of study, student projects, faculty members and de­partment chairmen greeted students when classes began Sept. 17. Even a football opponent that hasn't faced the Irish in almost 20 years appears on ND's '69 schedule. 
Total University enrollment for the year was expected to set a new record at 8,050, compared with last year's 7,841 students. Some 1,670 freshmen arrived for orientation Sept. 12. The Graduate School enrollment was expected to top 1,500 and the Law School greeted about 350 students in early September. 
This year's freshman class came to ND with impressive high school records in academic achievement, leadership experience and athletic competition. Over half of the new ND men ranked in the top 10th of their graduating classes, and over 93 per cent of the Class of 1973 were in the top 30 per cent of their high school classes. 
Individuals within the new class have also achieved their share of academic honors. One hundred and 
fifty-two freshmen, or 9 per cent of 
the class, were named either valedic­torians or salutatorians at their high school graduations last June. Twenty per cent of the ND frosh were among 
the top five students in their high school classes. Three hundred and twenty, or 19 per cent, of the members of the University's newest class were either National Merit Scholarship finalists, semifinalists or recipients of letters of commendation. 
The '73ers have 114 former editors­in-chief of school newspapers or 
(continued on page 2) 

yearbooks among them, and ISO 
fcMiner presidents of student bodies or 
senior classes. Over 53 per cent of 
the class are former National Honor 
Society members. 
ND's athletic fields and courts can expect to see a lot of the new class during the next four years. Fifty-seven per cent of the freshmen earned varsity letters in one or more sports during high school. Almost 20 per cent of the freshmen led high school athletic teams as captains or co-captains. And the frosh athletic leaders are a versatile group, repre­senting a variety of sports: football, basketball, baseball, track and cross­country, golf, wrestling, tennis, swimming, and soccer. 
The ND faculty roster for the 1969-70 academic year includes 129 new names in various positions, ranging from assistant professional specialists to full-time professors. Twenty-five faculty members have returned from leaves of absence, while 28 have begun their leaves. One hundred and six faculty members have left ND. 
Five departments of the University opened the year with new chairmen: Kwang-Tzu Yang, aerospace and mechanical engineering; Paul P. Weinstein, biology; Don A. Linger, civil engineering; George Brinkley, government and international studies; and Nicholas Fiore, metallurgical engineering. 
Two new twin-towered, high-rise residence halls were "almost" ready for 1,068 undergraduates to occupy when school began. A construction delay, caused by wet winter weather and work stoppages, has put off the completion of one of the towers until mid-October. Students moving back into the older residence halls also found some undoubtedly welcome changes. A $717,000 renovation program to alleviate overcrowding and inadequate facilities was com­pleted during the summer. 
Initial steps toward coeducation with nearby Saint Mary's College have started this fall, with 245 ND freshmen and an equal number of Saint Mary'sfirst-year students sharing classes in four liberal arts courses taught on both campuses. The Co-Exchange Program, which in the past permitted students from both institu­tions to take classes on the other campus, is being expanded at the sophomore, junior and senior levels. The two schools are also working toward an identical academic calendar, an integrated class schedule, a com­mon grading system and a harmonized 
examination schedule. The presidents 
of both institutions have emphasized 
that no merger of the schools is 
contemplated. 
Among structural innovations at 

ND this year is the University Fonun, 
announced last year by Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh CSC as a sounding board for the entire University community. Composed of students, faculty, administrators, alumni and trustees, the forum discusses issues of common concern and refers its consensus to already existing groups with legislative, judicial or executive power. 
The University's program for the study and practice of the nonviolent resolution of human conflict began full operation in mid-September when four sections of the first course in the new curriculum opened. The program, supported in part by a Gulf Oil gift of $100,000, is the result of a proposal made last spring by a cross section of ND students. 
Another student-initiated endeavor, the Robert F. Kennedy Institute, has begun its first full year of operation at ND. The institute, an organization for the coordination of student social action, sponsored a community study of a failing Texas town as its first specific project. 
Forty-seven architecture and art students left New York shortly before the start of the fall semester to inaugurate a foreign studies program in Rome. 
The Tulane University Green Wave, an opponent that has been absent from ND's football schedule since 1950, will face the Irish in New Orleans on the night of Oct. 25. The 1969 gridiron slate also sets the Irish up against their four traditional rivals in four successive weeks. On Sept 27, the team met Purdue's BoilermaJcers in a 1969 version of a contest that dates back to 1896. Oct. 4 will bring the Michigan State University Spartans to South Bend, and the following week the Irish will travel to New York City to battle the Army Cadets. The Southern California Trojans, minus Mr. Orenthal James Simpson, will meet the Irish in ND Stadium on Oct. 18. The week after the Tulane game, ND's oldest con­secutive rival, the Navy Midshipmen, will be in South Bend to continue the series that started in 1927. 
The University's 127th year thus began with a uniting of the old and the new—^promising to provide fresh excitement at a school that still honors traditions. 


IMW center 
Plans for a new five-floor building to house an expanded student body, faculty and library collection were announced Sept. 19 at a campus din­ner inaugurating a nationwide, $6 million Notre Dame Law Center Program. 
Erwin N. Griswold, solicitor general of the United States and former dean of the Harvard Law School, was the principal speaker at the event in 
-
the Monogram Room of the Athletic 
;
and Convocation Center. . Law School Dean William B. Law­less announced at the dinner that with the support of the Law Center Program, the school's student body will be expanded from 268 to 600 during the next five years, the faculty will be increased from 13 to 25, and the law library will be enlarged from 70,000 to 160,000 volumes. There were approximately 350 guests present at the dinner, includ­ing ofiicers and directors of the 3,300 member ND Law Assn., members of the Law School's Advisory Council, national leaders and city chairmen of the Law Center Program, members of the St. Joseph County Bar Assn. and University trustees and ofiicials. 
Dean Lawless, who became the 
t,
sixth head of the nation's oldest Catholic law school last year after |;^ serving on the Supreme Court of I'' New York, said the projected $3.5 I. million building, to be built near the i;> !'" 
'4 
sSSs*! 
. AM 
»-A -~sV 
./iii 
-^4?^ 
^^.'f^-iJv-S^ 

drive kicked off 
Memorial Library, "will be not only a center for legal education, but also a hub for expanded research in the critical legal problems of our time and a source of service, notably continu­ing education, to the practicing bar." 
David M. Thornton, Tulsa attorney and national chairman of the Law Center Program, said the $6 million fund-raising effort will be conducted principally among lawyers who hold undergraduate or law degrees or both from the University. Stressing that the program is integrated with SUM­MA, a $52 million, University-wide development program launched in 1967, Thornton said that ND lawyers who have not made substantial com­mitments to SUMMA will be asked to make capital gifts, projected over a period of five years or longer, to the Law Center Program. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, en route to the annual meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, issued a state­ment commending the Law Center Program "to Notre Dame lawyers everywhere. .. . It seeks capital com­mitments at a time in our national life when the cry for justice has never been so insistent, when men of competence, concern and compas­sion are needed in the legal profes­sion as never before," he said. 
Joining Griswold, Lawless and Thornton on the speaking program were George B. Morris Jr., president of the ND Law Assn. and director 
of labor relations for the General 
Motors Corporation, Detroit; John 
W. Dorgan, Chicago attorney and chairman of the Advisory Council; Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, exec­utive vice-president and acting pres­ident of ND; Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, academic vice-president, who delivered the invocation; and Rev. William Lewers CSC, of the Law School faculty, who gave the bene­diction. The toastmaster was James 
E. Armstrong, who served as ND alumni secretary for 41 years until his retirement two years ago. 
Thornton said the Law Center Program will be conducted in 13 cities this fall with ND lawyers in other communities to be contacted later. Serving as vice-chairmen of the coast-to-coast development effort are Dorgan; Joseph A. Tracy, New York City attorney and former NDLA president; and Camille Gravel, who practices law in Alexandria, La. 
The dinner, in addition to inaugu­rating the program nationally, also served as the local "kickofF' for the South Bend area campaign. 
Dean Lawless, James W. Frick, the University's vice-president for pub­lic relations and development, and national leaders of the Law Center Program began to address dinner meetings of ND lawyers in 12 other cities on October 2. 
Seienee eenter 
Construction was begun in eariy August on the newest section of the Paul V. Galvin Life Science Center, the biology building. The building, partially financed by a National Science Foundation award of $1.2 million and a $690498 grant under the Hi^ r Education Facilities Act, is expected to be completed by April, 1971. 
The $3.6 million structure, designed by EUerbe Architects, St. Paul, Minn., will replace the Wenninger-Kirsch Biology Building, built in 1937 and now slated for remodeling to house the department of psychology. The new building will contain a total of 103,000 square feet in three floors and a basement The basement andfirstfloor will house instructional areas and specialized laboratories, while floors two and three will contain faculty offices and research labs. 
The air-conditioned facility will feature the latest teaching equipment throughout its laboratories, classrooms and seminar rooms. Among its innovative features will be controlled environment facilities •where manip­ulation of temperature, light and humidity will enable researchers to study organisms under a variety of conditions. The Nieuwland Her­barium will be moved to the new building, which will also house a zoological collection room. ND's widely known Mosquito Genetics Project will also move to the new building. 
Other special features include a unique suite for electron microscopy, sterilization and wash rooms, walk-in cold rooms, an aquarium, and radio isotopes laboratories for tracing' work. A 3,000-square-foot library is also to be housed in the new building. 
Another buSding beghu to rise. 
A university president, like the head of many institutions, is frequently a man of strong opinion. But too often only the leader's views on a few, worn-out topics concerning his own realm are publicized. Brian Healy, of the National Catholic News Service, talked with Hev. Theodore M. Hes­burgh CSC while the ND president was in New Zealand in July. Fr. Hesburgh was evidently in a talka­tive and informal mood, and the conversation between the two touched many controversies of contemporary life, ranging from the draft to Leo Cardinal Suenens. 
Speaking of the draft, Fr. Hesburgh said, "Some people take it for granted that the draft in the U.S. is the normal thing. But it's abnormal. In 90 per cent of our history we have been without it" He advocates students doing community service for a year as a substitute for military service. Hesburgh said the great bulk of students consider it more patriotic to serve their country "through some kind of betterment of society than by going into the military." 




One man's opinions 
Noting that he is a member of the President's commission for an all-volunteer army, Fr. Hesburgh said that the study group hopes to report by November on the feasibility of a volunteer army. 
Although he is president of the International Federation of Catholic Universities, Fr. Hesburgh told Healy that he sees the future of Catholic universities as "rather dim at the moment" In Hesburgh's opinion, this is simply because "universities are just tremendously expensive things." 
The ND president noted that the 

U. of Montreal has just decided that it is no longer a Catholic university and that Quebec is considering the same step. The Belgian bishops have now given up their control of Louvain. Thus, all three are totally state-financed, Hesburgh pointed out 
Despite difBculties, Hesburgh still sees a vital need for Catholic uni­versities—^"not a lot of them but some good ones. I would hope that every region of the world would have one or two good ones, because I think they symbolize the interest of the 
1 
Church in the intellectual life of mankind," the president told Healy. 
Turning to the controversies in which the contemporary Church is involved, Fr. Hesburgh called Leo Cardinal Suenens of Malines-Brussels "a kind of prophet in the modem Church." Hesburgh said that in the controversy over Cardinal Suenens' wdely publicized criticisms of aspects of Church government, the Belgian prelate showed himself to be "a person with great courage saying what I think are very rational things." However, Hesburgh added, "you can't say things like this without ruflSing a litde fur." 
Terming Cardinal Suenens "a very honest critic," Hesbur^ stressed that the Cardinal's basic themes are those of the Second Vatican Council and that it is for the good of the Church that they be implemented as soon as possible. "What Cardinal Suenens is asking for will eventually come," Fr. Hesburgh stated. "His big point is coresponsibility—every­one responsible for the whole Church." 
Soaw people take it for granted that Ibe draft in the U^. is the tfaii^. Bat if s abnormal. 

It is a monumental task to chaise the vision of tiw 600 minion Catiiolics in tiw Clinicii. 
Fr. Hesburgh also gave Healy some of his personal opinions about the changes in the Church. "I feel the same about the Church as I do about civil rights," he said. "We've made incomparable progress in a short period but we started almost from a dead stop." Rather than a wind, Hesburgh said, the council almost let a tornado in. 
He said he views the central crisis of the Church as "a kind of total vision of where it is going, what its vision is of itself and its task and what it should do to realize this mission." Fr. Hesburgh said that it is a monumental task to change the vision of the 600 million Catholics in the Church, but he said he is optimistic because he has seen more change in the last several years than previously in his lifetime. "The whole direction, I say, is good," he con­cluded. 
Regarding his work on the Civil Rights Commission, which he heads, Fr. Hesburgh said that when it was started in 1957 under President Eisenhower "there hadn't been a civil rights law for 80 years." Since this time, the commission has been instrumental in having four major laws passed, covering voting, employ­ment, justice, education, public accommodations and housing, he said. Hesburgh remarked that some 80 per cent of the commission's recom­mendations for federal legislation has been enacted. 
Fr. Hesburgh admitted that Negroes living in the ghetto areas still have a long way to go. But he noted that there are more Negroes in colleges in the U.S. than there are students in the whole university system of England. He said the basic aim of the Civil Ri^ts Commission is "equality of opportunity for every American in aU 50 states. We've pretty well licked the problem of voting and public accommodations and, to some extent, the administration of justice," he said. But education, housing and employment are the great trilogy of interlocking problems that yet must be beaten, according to ND's chief administrator. 
Fr. Hesburgh estimated that 90 per cent of Negro students are on scholarships. Asked how many Negro students are at ND, he gave a figure of 100 out of this year's 6,000 under­graduates. The small number, he explained, is against a 70 last year. "So we're gradually building it up," he noted. 
Speaking on the retarding effect of the Vietnam war on some of Amer­ica's domestic programs, Fr. Hesburgh said he did not know of anyone who did not want the war ended quickly. "You can't spend $70 million a day in Vietnam and have a lot of money left over for anything else," he remarked, and noted that the U.S. defense budget has gone up to $80 billion, almost half of it for Vietnam. 
Asked if the space program also had a retarding effect, Hesburgh replied, "The space program's a small potato. The total space program is $25 billion. The countries of the world will spend $150 billion this year just on armaments. Our budget for the space program next year is $4 billion, against $80 billion for defense." 
Discussing today's youth, Hesbur^ said, "I think the Church has a great necessity today to be sensitive to young people. It is my feeling .. . that young people in America are veiy disaffected with what they call the institutional Church—the same as they are somewhat disaffected with institutional government" 
Hesburgh told Healy that at ND he has told students that he will stand up for law and order, but this does not mean just reflecting the status quo. He said he encourages students to put forward ideas. If they have a good idea for bettering the educa­tional process or suggesting what the University can do in the way of social study and action, he will back it. Hesburgh said, "This (^len attitude has paid c^." 
Yon can't spend $70 mfllion a day m Vi and have a lot of money left over for anytiu^ else. 
! 

Busy summer at ND 
Blaek studies 
An Ethnic Studies Program may 
be instituted in the University cur­
riculum by the fall of 1970. The 
program has been developed from a 
proposal for a Black Studies Program 
by an ad hoc committee formed last 
December by Rev. Theodore Hes-
burgh CSC and composed of faculty 
members and black students. 
Dr. Thomas E. Stewart, assistant to 
the president for planning and analy­
sis, said: "There is nothing formal set 
up for this year. Any proposal for 
something like this must go through 
the formal processes of the University 
and it is not promised that it (an 
Ethnic Studies Program) will exist." 
He added: "The University is cogni­
zant of the needs and aspirations of 
black students to include the study 
of their culture and social problems 
that have bearing on their lives." 
Dr. Stewart said a decision regard­ing the proposal is pending from the Arts and Letters College Council and, if approved, will be sent to the Academic Council for final endorse­ment. He said the program could not be implemented before the fall of 1970. 
Delays have been caused by the difficulty the administration has had in hiring a director for the program. "We've had several good prospects," Dr. Stewart said, "but they've been unable to leave their present positions." The director of the program would be involved in recruiting and counsel­ing minority students. 
Meanwhile, he said the University "has gathered together a block of about 26 courses already in the curriculum—courses from such departments as history, sociology and economics and from the Law School —that should be of immediate utility in the black studies area." 
David Krashna, a black junior English major from Pittsburgh who is Human Affairs Commissioner for the ND student government, described Dr. Stewart's explanation of the delay as "just another case of the great white father image of paternalism which black people have been ex­periencing since the first black men 

Over 71,350 people visited the Uni­
versity of Notre Dame campus during 
a three-week period at the close of 
the summer. Their official reasons 
for being on campus were varied, 
ranging from viewing mobile homes 
to seeking sanctuary and requesting 
funds for blacks. 

Most of the visitors were at ND for the Midwest Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle Show during the week of Aug. 17. The event, tagged "the largest trade show on earth." drew an estimated 68,000 persons to the Athletic and Convocation Center, where some 800,000 square feet of space was used to exhibit $3,783,000 worth of vehicles and equipment. The six-day show was responsible for pumping an estimated $S million into the community's economy. Motels and hotels within a 50-mile radius of South Bend were filled by convention guests and exhibitors. The show was so successful that after its completion the Indiana Mobile Home Assn. announced plans to return the event to South Bend next year. 
Overlapping the mobile home show was a four-day national convention of the Christian Family Movement. Over 600 married couples and 150 religious were on campus for the parley from Aug. 20-24. 
The next day, Aug. 25, the American Accountants Assn. moved into the Center for Continuing Education with over 1,000 members to begin the 53rd national convention of the organization. The three-day affair drew accountants from industry, government and education. 
Aug. 30, more than 1,000 delegates were on hand in the Athletic and Convocation Center for the opening of the Special General Convention II of the Episcopal Church. The gathering attracted representatives from major newspapers and news services across the nation, and some of its sessions unexpectedly became controversial meetings. 
At a Sunday night session, a group of black spokesmen interrupted the scheduled speaker and aired their grievances. Their leaders. Rev. Paul 
M. Washington, former chaplain of the convention's House of Deputies, and Mohammed Kenyatta, of Phila­delphia, walked to the platform and took the microphone while the deputies and House of Bishops were in a joint plenary session. Kenyatta asked the church to lead the way in "repaying America's debt to the black people." Monday morning, the spokesmen returned to the platform and asked for reparations in the form 
arrived on the soil." 

The Episcopalian Convention (left), the circus (right) and the Midwest Mobile Home f 
of funds—to the sum of $200,000— to be channeled immediately to the Black Economic Development Con­ference for administrative purposes. Kenyatta again criticized the church, calling it "an apologist for racism," and accused the convention of participating in racism, thus "exploit­ing the Master." 
Other sessions of the conference were not without surprises. Tuesday morning, two soldiers absent without leave from their posts in Hawaii asked the convention for sanctuary and urged church support of moves to end the war in Vietnam. About 200 con­vention delegates accompanied the Gls to the platform in support of their opposition to the war. At another session, about 30 young people dem­onstrated against the war with placards and by reciting the Lord's Prayer. 
Thus, the ACC and the entire ND campus closed out the summer by hosting thousands of visitors from all over the nation and world. And, just for good measure, another event, the more traditional "greatest show on earth," came to town. The Ringling Brothers, Barnum and Bailey circus presented four performances under the ACC big tops in the middle of September. 
show made it a busy summer at ND. 
COLUMN 


FaU felicity 
by Richard W. Conklin 
Director of Public Information 
I can sense it •when the ivy which spreads from my chimney across the front of my home starts to turn; an accountant friend of mine says he can feel it when he leaves his downtown office on Friday and steps into the tense anticipation on the street; on campus one can hear it about four o'clock when the band struts to its practice field; the man in Eddie's crowded bar on Friday night knows it when that fourth martini slides numbingly into the bloodstream and he can't remember the point spread. 
Football season has come back 

to Notre Dame. 
I missed the undergraduate indoc­trination into Notre Dame football, and when I arrived to seek an M.A. in the fall of 1958 I had to ask some­one what the zesty monologue on the restaurant jukebox was. "That's Knute Rockne's famous half-time talk," he said, charitably resisting the temptation to add, "you jerk." 
To be a graduate student in good standing in those days, only two things were necessary: 1) to hate undergraduates and 2) to hate foot­ball. The first I did, sitting and drinking stale beer in the dilapidated (and now defunct) Tilman's Tap, where proper graduate students sought refuge from the undergrads who jammed Frankie's. As for the second, I had always been a football fan and could not give it up, even under peer-group pressure. I joined a small group of dissident grad students who went to every game. 
In the 6-4 season of Terry Brennan's last year, I must admit, going to football games almost came to appeal to the reverse snobbery of our Tilman's Tap crowd. When­
ever an anesthetic appeared advisable, 
many used a hypodermic needle to 
inject gin or vodka into oranges 
or grapefruit and munch-sucked their 
way pleasantly through a 3-2 
home season. 
Things are somewhat different 
today. Now it is the undergraduate 
sophisticate who feigns an indiffer­
ence toward football (but never misses 
a game). Some say they are em­
barrassed by what they claim is a 
"football factory" image of Notre 
Dame but overlook the fact that the 
University is second to Yale in the 
number of NCAA post-graduate 
scholarships given its varsity athletes. 
It is a fact that in the early days of the University, football built Notre Dame. It gave an obscure school in northern Indiana national ex­posure, contributed money to lean coffers and attracted the interest of non-alumni who were able to help the institution financially. While Notre Dame still commands major space on the nation's sports pages and football still contributes a welcome profit to the institution's sorely pressed balance sheet, no one can deny that the academic pre-eminence accorded the University has been earned outside the stadium. 
Some changes are for the best. The presence of St. Mary's women in the student section can be expected to curb some of the outright boorish­ness which passed for masculinity in the past, and the disassociation of football from religion is to be heartily welcomed. 

Yet the nation will continue to tip slightly on home football Saturdays, filling South Shore trains at Chicago's Randolph Street Station, overflowing the Indiana toUway's South Bend exit lanes into temporary gates, crowding St. Joseph County Air­port with private planes. These are the people who spill on campus to sip ice-cold manhattans from tail­gates, buy sandwiches from residence hall entrepreneurs or dine at the President's VIP luncheons for the Morris Inn guest list. Color, excite­ment and a gut feeling of expecta­tion are shared by the lineman glancing at the uplift signs in the dressing room, the sportswriter settling into his niche in the press box, and the usher handling the usual last-minute influx. 
There is, for a few hours on a fall afternoon, a semblance of unity on campus. And in a day when such moments are rare, who is to complain because sports supplies it? 

Juggler shul; down 
The Juggler, a magazine of the arts founded at ND in 1947, was closed during the summer by .the Vice Presidents Council. 
In a letter to three students who wrote to him protesting the shut-down of the magazine. Father Hesburgh explained: "The fact is that we are facing a deficit of over a half million dollars in our University budget next year and must seek every possible way of reducing expenses so that the University does not go under. This may sound quixotic, but it is not a remote possibility. In the course of these conversations which involved all of the Vice Presidents Council, there was a long list of University activities which did not seem indispensible to the life of the University. The Juggler happened to be one of them." 
The Juggler's yearly budget has been $4,000. 
Father Hesburgh continued: "In the case of the Juggler, it was felt that there was not an actual return com­mensurate with the money spent. Fewer and fewer students seem to buy the Juggler and it seemed to degenerate into a cozy activity of a very few writers and readers. This may speak badly for the state of the arts at Notre Dame, but it does seem to be the fact. In addition, those who have read the Juggler in recent years seemed to feel that, while it did contain some good writing, it did seem to depend more and more upon the four-letter words for effects. I realize that this is true of much of modern art. 
"One could have a long conversa­tion on this subject, but I am simply telling you the situation as it was discussed. In effect, the Juggler seemed to have few defendants. My approval then was simply a recognition of a rather universal judgement." 
At press time. Juggler Editor Michael Patrick O'Connor was gather­ing support among students and faculty to rejuvenate the magazine. In his letter to Father Hesburgh, O'Connor wrote: "I cannot believe that you in all sincerity believe that a magazine of the arts is not an integral part of the university. I believe that a magazine like the Juggler can be made an integral part of the community and I would like the opportunity to seriously try." 

Adults in "Project Reach" classes learn about television skills. 


Neir TV program aimed 
A two-year experimental program at ND designed to reach undereducated adults in the South Bend area through television has received an initial grant of $120,403 from the U.S. Office of Education. 
Samuel D. McClelland, an instructor in communication arts, is directing "Project Reach," which is aimed at the estimated 25,000 adults in St. Joseph County who have less than eighth-grade educations. 
The project has three basic goals: to train adult education students in television skills; to use their produc­tions in broadcast campaigns to boost enrollment in adult basic education programs; and to combine closed-circuit television and individual instruction to teach classes of adults grouped into various achievement levels. 
The first step of the new program is recruitment of past and present students of the community's adult education program for training in full-time "para-professional" positions, such as video tape operators, lighting personnel, cameramen, assistant cameramen, audio operators and assistant producers and directors. 
"These para-professionals," McClelland says, "will bring the ideas and aspirations of the underclass into the program and they also will be effective ambassadors for adult basic education among their peers." 
Following a 12-week training workshop, the crew will produce film and tape promotional materials for use on local television and radio. "The broadcast promotions will not be at all like the highly polished, 
•slick' commercial product," Mc­Clelland explains. "Rather, they will be simple documentary testimonies of local people telling it 'like it is,' people with whom our target audience can identify." 
During the latter part of the first year of the project, attention will be given to the development of the 

BRIEFS 


at adults 
television curriculum. These televised lessons will be highly visual programs designed to teach undereducated adults the basic principles of each skill—such as addition—and will be used in conjunction with individual instruction and practice. 
Actual television instruction of the adult basic education students will begin in the second year of "Project Reach." Classrooms will be located in the Studebaker-Wellington Corp. offices recently donated to the South Bend Community School Corp. 
McClelland says the project will be carefully evaluated during the two-year experimental program by using a combination of action research, adult basic learning pre- and post-tests, audience research and content analysis. 
" 'Project Reach' is a first step which could lead to an all-out effort to reach the nation's more than 24 million undereducated," the director states. 
Neic Feilow 
Rev. Paul E. Waldschmidt CSC, president of the U. of Portland, has been elected a member of the Fellows of the University of Notre Dame. Fr. Waldschmidt, a 1942 ND gradu­ate, replaces Rev. John J. Cavanaugh CSC, a former president of the University who recently resigned as a fellow. 

NU Artist 
Robert Leader, artist and professor of art at the University, is painting a 36 X 10-foot mural in the main entrance of the new science hall at the College of St. Scholastica, Duluth, Minn. The work was commissioned by the college to depict historical and contemporary aspects of the sciences. 

Grant Totals 
Gifts and grants of $9.2 million were received by ND during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1969, according to Dr. Frederick Rossini, vice-president for research and sponsored programs. Government grants accounted for 87 per cent of the awards and the remaining funds were gifts of philanthropic foundations, groups, businesses and individuals. The funds topped last year's awards by $2.1 million, Rossini noted. 

New Scholar 
The dean of humanities at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Dr. Zwi Werblowsky, has been appointed a fellow of the Institute for Advanced Religious Studies at ND. A professor of comparative religion at the Hebrew 
U. since 1956, Werblowsky has served as the chairman of the Israel Interfaith Committee and has been prominent in Jewish and Christian ecumenical affairs. He received his doctorate in literature from the U. of Geneva in 1951 and taught at Leeds U. and the Institute of Jewish Studies in Manchester, England. Werblowsky is the first fellow to be appointed to the institute on a grant from the Dorothy H. and Lewis S. 
Rosenstiel Foundation of New York City, which provides for permanent Jewish studies at the institute. 

Goal Near 
ND's third-consecutive capital funds drive, SUMMA, will observe its second anniversary in October, with over $45 million, or 87 per cent of its $52-million goal, raised. National Chairman Dr. O.C. Carmichael Jr. reported that 29 areas have officially surpassed their goals, including. Albany, Appleton (Wis.), Atlanta, Baltimore, Boston, Columbus, Cin­cinnati, Dayton-Springfield, Denver, Evansville, Green Bay, Hartford, Indianapolis, Kansas City, Louisville, Muskegon, New Jersey, New Orleans, Pensacola, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Poughkeepste, Providence, Quad Cities (Davenport, East Moline, Molina and Rock Island), Rockford-Freeport, San Francisco, Tulsa and Youngstown. 

Lau) Adciaers 
Two faculty members from ND's Law School have recently been named to Indiana advisory groups. Professor John Broderick was appointed to a task force which will study steps necessary for upgrading law enforce­ment personnel in Northern Indiana. Thomas L. Shaffer, associate dean of the Law School, has been named a member of the Indiana Constitutional Revision Commission, a study and review body formed to suggest ways in which Indiana's 117-year-old con­stitution can be updated. 

Benefaction 
The University has received the second half of a million-dollar personal gift from Frank M. Freimann, president of the Magnavox Co. until his death in March, 1968. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, acting president, accepted the check, representing an unrestricted bequest. The first half-million dollars was given to ND in 1962, with the bulk of that donation going toward construction of the Memorial Library. 
CLASSES 
Father O'Donnell "in action" at the front. 



A medal ivinner makes his mark 
Rev. Joseph O'Donnell CSC '56 has no formal parish. He has no modem, comfortable building in which to offer Mass. His communicants are soldiers and his church is frequently a battlefield. 
Unlike the numerous lists of cas­ualties, Fr. O'Donnell's work rarely captures the attention of headline writers, but he is one of the men playing a significant role behind the scenes in Vietnam. And, for offering meritorious service as a naval chaplain with the United States Seventh Fleet, Fr. O'Donnell was awarded the Navy's Commendation Medal in San Diego last May. 

Fr. O'Donnell arrived in Vietnam in September, 1968, and was stationed for six months on the U.S.S. Tripoli, the largest of eight ships of the Amphibious Ready Group, a mobile, autonomous, completely supplied attack force of the Pacific fleet. His ship operated off Da Nang, South Vietnam, carrying a battalion of 2,000 combat Marines and about 16 helicopters manned by 400 Marine fliers. Participating in some of the fiercest fighting of the war, the group was involved in Bold Mariner, the biggest amphibious landing since Korea. 
The troops were usually in combat, spending little time on the ship. Thus, the priest frequently went ashore and said Mass close to the front lines. Often his "church" was surrounded by mine fields, rice paddies and military vehicles. Attempting to describe some of the conditions in which he worked, Fr. O'Donnell said, "The smell of the water here is 

pretty hard to describe, but— 
referring to Chicago—if you took a 
combination of the stockyards, the 
Lever Brothers plant out on Indi­
anapolis Blvd. and all the sewers in 
the city, you might begin to get an 
idea of what it's like." 
When his battalion began to suffer 
casualties, which were airlifted back 
to the Tripoli, the chaplain returned 
to the ship to be ready to care for 
the wounded. He marveled at the 
speed and efficiency with which the 
wounded were cared for. Within 
20 minutes after a Marine had been 
hit on shore, he would be aboard 
ship and ready for the operating table. 
Fr. O'Donnell said that some of 
the ship's hospital equipment was so 
modem that it is not yet available in 
U.S. hospitals. 
The navy lieutenant flew to Da Nang from Chicago and was im­pressed with the great contrast between the two cities. He described Da Nang as "all military." The air­port, which he says is busier than O'Hare Field, is home base for dozens of different types of airplanes, ranging from huge jets, fighters and bombers to tiny spotter planes and helicopters. Fr. O'Donnell him­self travels by helicopter when he visits various ships for Masses. His method of deplaning, however, is a little unusual. When there is no landing pad on the ships, he is dropped to and picked up from the boats the same way astronauts are—by lines. 
The planes everyone likes to see in Da Nang, says the chaplain, are the Pan Am jets, for their appearance means someone is going home. The wounded fly home on Air Force jets. 
The city itself, according to Lt. O'Donnell, is filled with military vehicles. Some civilians have motor bikes, but seldom is a civilian car seen. The barbed-wire checkpoints and bombed-out buildings serve as constant reminders that the enemy can come any time. The priest says that the endless stockpiles of American merchandise—including suntan lotion—indicate that the American way is there, in contrast to the pov­erty of most Vietnamese. 
Fr. O'Donnell is now in San Diego with his unit and will remain there until deployed at the end of the year, probably to Vietnam. There he will again confront the "face of suffering," which he says he sees all over the country. 


ROME 
A Notre Dame Escapade 
A nine-day tour to the eternal city 
• During Holy Week, March 23-31, 1970 Chartered TWA jetliners 
First-class hotel accommodations, including meals 
* Guided tours 
• A stop at Vince McAloon's ND Hospitality House 
Hosted by Mr. & Mrs. James E. Armstrong 
•
 For ND alumni and their immediate families 

•
 Total cost $369 per person (plus $14 taxes, services and gratuities) 


Cut Here 
To: Mr. James D. Cooney Notre Dame Alumni Association Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
Please send me more information about the NOTRE DAME ROMAN ESCAPADE. 
Name 
Street 
Town - State . Zip . Class . 


WOULD YOU BELIEVE? 
Two Can Give As Easily As One 
Mr. Notre Dame: 

More than 400 business concerns, from small research organiza­tions to industrial giants, are now matching dollar-for-doUar, and some­times more, the contributions of their employes to higher education. Here is an excellent way for your gift to trigger a double impact. Your annual investment in Notre Dame is tangible evidence of your faith in the future of the University and is encouraged by your employer. His matching gift says that he wants to join you in this support in recognition of the role this University has played in your development. If your employer is listed here, send a Matching Gift form with your annual investment and watch us double our speed toward becoming an even greater Notre Dame. 

Companies That Will Match Employee Gifts 
Abbott Laboratories (all; n-a) 
Abex Corp. (all; n-a) 
Aeroglide Corp. (1,2; lim) 
Aerojet-General Corp. (all; n-a) 
Aetna Life & Casualty (all; sp-w; n-a) 
Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. 
(1A n-a) 
Air Reduction Co. Inc. (all; n-a) 
Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp. (1,2; 
n-a) Allied Chemical Corp. (all; n-a) Aluminum Co. of America (all; n-a) American Bank & Trust Co. of Pa. 
(1,2; Ipi; n-a) American Enita Corp. (all; n-a) American Express Co. (all; n-a) American & Foreign Power Co., Inc. 
(1.2; n-a) American Home Products Corp. (1,2; n-a) American Metal Climax Found., Inc. 
(all; n-a) American Optical Co. (all; sp; n-a) American Potash & Chemical Corp. 
(1,2; n-a) American Smelting and Refining Co. 
(all; n-a) American Standard, Inc. (all; epi; n-a) American States Insurance (1,2; epi; 
sp-w; n-a) American Sterilizer Co. (1,2) American Sugar Co. (all; n-a) American Tobacco Co. (all; sp) Arkwright-Boston Manufacturers 
Mutual Ins. Co. (all; sp; n-a) Armco Steel Corp. (all; n-a) Armstrong Cork Co. (1; n-a) Ashland Oil & Refining Co. (1,2; n-a) Associated Box Corp. (all; epi) Associated Spring Corp. (all; n-a) Athos Steel and Aluminum, Inc. (1,2; 
n-a) Atlas Chemical Industries, Inc. (all) Atlas Rigging and Supply Co. (1,2; 
epi) 
Bank of California, N.A. (all) 
Bank of New York (all; sp-w; n-a) 
Bankers Life Co. (all; sp; n-a) 
Barton-Gillet Co. (all; n-a) 
Bloch Brothers Tobacco Co. (all) 
Blue Bell Inc. (all; n-a) 
Bowen, Gurin, Barnes & Roche, Inc. 
(all; n-a) 
G. A. Brakeley & Co., Inc. (all; n-a) Bristol-Myers Co. (all; epi; n-a) Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. 
(all; n-a) Brown & Root, Inc. (1,3 n-a) Buriington Industries, Inc. (all; n-a) Business Men's Assurance Co. of 
America (all; n-a) Business Press Int'l., Inc. (1,2; n-a) Butterick Co., Inc. (all; sp; n-a) 
Cabot Corp. (all; n-a) Callanan Road Improvement Co. 
(all) Campbell Soup Co. (all; sp; n-a) Canadian Gen. Electric Co., Ltd. (1) Carttorundum Co. (1,3; n-a) Carpenter Steel Co. (1,2; n-a) Carrier Corp. (all; n-a) Carter-Wallace, Inc. (all; n-a) Cavalier Corp. (all; n-a) Central Illinois Light Co. (1,3; epi; n-a) Central & South West Corp. (1,2; n-a) Cerro Corp. (all; n^) Champion Papers (all; n-a) Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (all; n-a) Chemical Bank N.Y. Trust Co. (all) Chemical Construction Corp. (1,2) 
Chrysler Corp. (all; sp) 
Cities Service Company (1; sp; n-a) 
Citizens & Southern Natnnal Bank 
(all; n-a) 
Clark Equipment Co. (all; n-a) 
Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Co. (all; n-a) 
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co. 
(all; n-a) 
Cleveland Inst, of Electronics 
(all; n-a) 
Clevite Corp. (all; epi; n-a) 
James B. Clow & Sons, Inc. (all; n-a) 
Coats & Clark Inc. (all; n-a) 
Colonial Parking, Inc. (1> n-a) 
Columbia Gas System, lnc.( all; n-a) 
Columbian Carbon Co. (all; sp; n-a) 
Columbus Mutual Ins. Co. 
(all; sp; n-a) 
Combustion Engineering, Inc. (all) 
Commercial Solvents Corp. (all; n-a) 
Conn. General Life Ins. Co. 
(1,2; epi; n-a) 
Conn. Light & Power Co. 
(1,2; Ipi; n-a) Conn. Mutual Life Ins. Co. (1,3; epi; n-a) Consolidated Coal Co. (1) Consumers Power Co. (all; n-a) Container Corp. of America 
(all; Ipi; n-a) Continental Can Co., Inc. (all; n-a) Continental Ins. Cos. (all; n-a) Continental Oil Co. (1,2) Cook Foundation, Conn, (all) Cooper Industries, Inc. (all; n-a) Copley Press Inc. (1,2; sp; n-a) Copolymer Rubber & Chemical Corp. 
(1; n-a) Com Products Co. (all; sp; n-a) Coming Glass Works (all; n-a) Crompton Co., Inc. (all; epi) Crouse-Hinds Co. (all) Cutler-Hammer Inc. (1,2) Cyprus Mines Corp. (1,2; epi; n-a) 
Dayton Malleable Iron Co. (1,2; n-a) Deering Milliken, Inc. (1,2; epi; n-a) Diamond Alkali Co. (all; n-a) Diamond Crystal Salt Co. (1,2; n-a) Diamond Shamrock Oil & Gas Co. 
(1; n-a) 
A. B. Dick Co. (all; n-a) Dickson Electronics Corp. (1; n-a) Difco Laboratories (all; n-a) Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Inc. 
(all; n-a) Dow Chemical Co. (all; lim; n-a) Dow Coming Corp. (all; lim; n-a) Draper Corp. (1,2) Dresser Industries, Inc. (1,2; n-a) Wilbur B. Driver Co. (all; n-a) Dun & Bradstreet Group Cos. 
(1.2; n-a) 
Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates (all; n-a) Easton Car & Construction Co. 
(1.2; epi) Eaton Yale & Towne, Inc. (all; n-a) Ebasco Industries, Inc. (all; n-a) Ebasco Services, Inc. (1,2) Electric Storage Battery Co. (1,2) Ensign-Bickford Co. (1,2; n-a) Equitable of Iowa (all; n-a) Esso Education Foundation (all) Ex-Cell-O Corp. (1,2; n-a) 
Federal-Mogul Corp. (all) Federated OepL Stores, Inc. (all) Ferro Corp. (1,2; n-a) 
Firemen's Mutual ln& Ca (1.2; ap; n-a) Firestone Tire.& RUMMT Co. (all; sp: n-a) First Nat Bank of Hawaii (all; lim; n-a) First Nat City Bank of N.Y. (all; epi; n-a) The Rrst New Haven National Bank (all; n-a) First Penn. Banking and Trust Co. 
(all; n-a) Fluor'corp. Ltd. (1^ ; n-a) Ford Motor Co. (all; n-a) Ford Motor Co. of Canada, Ltd. 
(1.2:
 n-a) Forty-Eight Insulatkxis. Inc. (1,2) Foster Wheeler Corp. (1,2; n-a) 

H.
 B. Fuller Co. (all: n-a) 


E&JGalloWineiy(all) Gardner-Denver Co. (1,3; n-a) General Atronics Corp. (all; n-a) General Electric Co. (all; n-a) General Foods Corp. (all: sp; n-a) General Foods Limited (1,2; sp: n-a) General Learning Corp. (all; sp: n-a) General Mills, Inc. (all; n-a) General Publk: Utilities Corp. 
(all; n-a) General Telephone & Electronics Corp. (1,3: n-a) General Tire & Rubber Co. (all; n-a) 
M. A. Gesner of Illinois, Inc. (all; n^) Getty Oil Co. (all; n-a) Gibbs & Hill, Inc. (1; lim: n-a) Gillette Co. (all: n-a) Ginn & Co. (all; n-a) Girard Trust Bank (1,2; n-a) 
B. F. Goodrich Co. (all: n^) 
W. T. Grant Co. (1: n-a) Great Northern F^per Co. (all; n-a) Griswold-Eshleman Co. (1,2) Guardian Life Ins. Co. of America 
(all; epi; sp: n-a) Gulf Oil Corp. (1: r>-a) Gulf States Utilities Co. (ail; n-a) Guy Gannett Broadcasting Services 
(all) 

Hamilton Watch Co. (1.2; n-a) Harris-lntertype Corp. (all; n-a) Harris Trust and Savings Bank (all) Harsco Corp. (ail; Ipi; n-a) Hartford Electric Light Co. 
(all; sp-w; n-a) Hartford Insurance Group (all; n-a) Hawaiian Telephone Co. 
(1,2; lim; n-a) Hayes-Albton Corp. (all; n-a) Hercules Incorporated (1,2: n-a) Hershey Foods Corp. (all; sp; n-a) Hewlett-Packard Co. (1,2: n-a) Hill Acme Co., Ohio (1,2; epi) Hoffman-La Roche, Inc. (all; epi; n-a) Honeywell, Inc, (1^2; sp: n-a) Hooker Chemk»l Corp. (all; n-a) Hoover Company (all: n-a) 
J. M. Huber Corp. (ail; sp: n-a) Hughes Aircraft (ail) Humble Oil & Refining Co. (all) 
IngersolHtand Co. (all) Insurance Co. of Nortti America 
(all; epi; sp; n-a) Interchemical Corp. (all: n-a) Intemattonal Bus. Machines Corp. 
(all; n-a) IntemathNtal Ravors & Fiagrances Inc. (all; epi; n-a) 
international Tel. & Tel. Corp. 
(all; n-a) 

Irving Trust Co. (1,2) 
itek Corp. (all; n-a) 
Jefferson Mills, inc. (lim) 
Jefferson Standard Broadcasting Co. 
(all; n-a) 

Jefferson Standard Life Ins. Co. 
(all; n-a) 

Jewel Companies, Inc. (all; n-a) 
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance 
Co. (all; sp; n-a) 

Johnson & Higgins (all; epi; n-a) 
Johnson & Johnson (1; n-a) 
S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc. (all; n-a) Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. (all; epi) 
Kaiser Steel Corp. (1,2; n-a) 
Kendall Co. (1,2; n-a) 
Kerite Co. (all; n-a) 
Kern County Land Co. (all) 
Kersting, Brown & Co., Inc. (1; n-a) 
Walter Kidde & Co. (1,2) 
Walter Kidde Constructors 
(all; sp; n-a) 

Kidder, Peabody & Co., Inc. 
(all; lim; epi; n-a) Kimberly-Clark Corp. (all) Kingsbury Machine Tool Corp. 
(all; sp) Kiplinger Foundation, Inc. (all; n-a) Richard C. Knight Ins. Agency, Inc. 
(all; epi; sp) Knox Gelatine, Inc. (all; sp; n-a) Koehring Co. (all) 
H. Kohnstamm Co., Inc. (all; n-a) The Koppers Foundation (all; n-a) 
Lamson & Sessions Co. (1; n-a) Lawyers Co-operative Publishing Co. 
(all; n-a) Lehigh Portland Cement Co. (1,2) Lever Brothers Co. (all; n-a) Lorillard Corp. (1,2; n-a) Lubrizol Corp. (all; sp; n-a) Ludlow Corp. (all) Lummus Co. (1,2) 
M & T. Chemicals Inc. (1,2) MacLean-Fogg Lock Nut Co. (1,2; n-a) Mallinckrodt Chemical Works (all; n-a) 
P. R. Mallory & Co., Inc. (all; n-a) Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. (all; n-a) Manufacturers Mutual Fire Ins. Co. 
(all; epi; n-a) Marathon Oil Co (all; n-a) Martha Washington Kitchens 
(1.3; n-a) Marine Corp. (all) Marine Midland Grace Trust Co. of 
N.Y. (all; epi; sp; n-a) Mass. Mutual Life Ins. Co. (alt; n-a) Malalene Surgical Instruments Co., 
Inc. (all; epi) Maytag Co. (1; n-a) McCormick & Co., Inc. (all) McGraw Edison Power Systems Div. 
(1.2; n-a) McGraw-Hill. Inc. (all; n-a) Medusa-Portland Cement Co. 
(1.2; epi; n-a) Mellon Nat Bank & Trust Co. (1,2) Merck & Co., Inc. (all; n-a) Metropolitan Ufe Ins. Co. 
(1.2; sp; n-a) Middlesex Mutual Assurance Co. (all; n-a) MMIand-Ross Corp. (all; n-a) 
Miehle-Goss-Oexter, Inc. (all; n-a) 
Mobil Foundation Inc. (all; n-a) 
Mohasco Industries, Inc. (all) 
Moog, Inc. (all; n-a) 
Morgan Construction Co. (1; n-a) 
Motorola Inc. (1) 
Munsingwear, Inc. (all; n-a) 
Mutual Boiler & Machinery Ins. Co. 
(all) 
Mutual Life Insurance Co. of N.Y. 
(all; n-a) 
Mutual of Omaha-United of Omaha 
(all; sp; n-a) 
National Biscuit Co. (all; sp; n-a) 
National Cash Register Co. 
(all; sp; n-a) 

National Distillers & Chemical Corp. 
(all; n-a) 

National Lead Co. (all; n-a) 
National Steel Corp. (1,2; n-a) 
Nationwide Ins. Cos. (1,3; n-a) 
Natural Gas Pipeline Co. of America 
(all) 

New England Gas & Electric Assoc. 
(all; n-a) 

New England Merchants NaL Bank of 
Boston (1,2; epi) 

New England Mutual Life Ins. Co. 
(all; n-a) 

Newhall Land and Farming Co. 
(1,2; n-a) New York Times (all; n-a) The New Yorker Magazine, Inc. 
(all; n-a) Northeast Utilities Service Co. (all; Ipi; n-a) Northwestern Mutual Life Ins. Co. (all; n-a) Northwestern National Life Ins. Co. 
(all; n-a) Norton Co., Mass. (all; n-a) John Nuveen & Co., Inc. (1,2; n-a) 
Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co. (1,2; sp) Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp. 
(all; n-a) Oneida Ltd. (1,2; n-a) Owens-Coming Fiberglas Corp. 
(all; n-a) 

PPG Industries, Inc. (all; n-a) Parker-Hannifin Corp. (all; n-a) Paul Revere Life Ins. Co. (all; n-a) Pennsalt Chemicals Corp. 
(all; epi; n-a) Pennsylvania Power & Light Co. 
(1,2; n-a) Penton Publishing Co. (all; n-a) Petro-Tex Chemicals Corp. (all; n-a) Phelps Dodge Corp. (all; n-a) Philip Morris, Inc. (all) Phillips Petroleum Co. (all; n-a) Pickands Mather & Co. (all; n-a) PillsBuiy Co. (1,2; fv«) Pilot Life Ins. Co. (all) Pitney-Bowes, Inc. (all; n-a) Pittsburgh NaL Bank (1) Preformed Line Products Co. (1; n-a) Provident Life and Accident Ins. Co. 
(1,2; n-a) Provident National Bank (all) Prudential Ins. Co. of America 
(1.2; n-a) Pullman Inc. (all; n-a) Putnam Management Co., Inc. 
(all; n-a) 

Quaker Chemical Corp. (all; sp; nni) 
Ralston Purina Co. (1.2; sp; n-a) Reader's Digest (all) Reliance Ins. Co. (all; sp-w; Ipi; n-a) Rex Chainbelt, Inc. (all; n-a) 
R. J. Reynolds Foods, Inc. (all; n-a) 
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. (all; n-a) Riegel Paper Corp. (all; n-a) Riegel Textile Corp. (all; n-a) Rk> Algom Mines Ltd. (1; lim) Rochester Germicide Co. (1) Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Inc. 
(all; sp; n-a) Rockefeller Family & Associates (all; sp; n-a) Martha Baird Rockefeller Fund for 
Music, Inc. (all; sp; n-a) Rockwell Manufacturing Co. (all) Rockwell-Standard Div. (1; n-a) Rohm & Haas Co. (all; n-a) Rust Engineering Co. (1,2; sp; n-a) 
SCM Corporation (all; n-a) 
SKF Industries, Inc. (1,2) 
Sadtler Research Laboratories, Inc. 
(all; n-a) 
SL Regis Paper Co. (all) 
Sanders Associates, Inc. (all) 
Schering Corp. (all; n-a) 
Scott Paper Co. (1,2; n-a) 
Joseph E. Seagram & Sons, Inc. 
(all; n-a) 
Sealright Co., Inc. (all) 
Security Nat Bank of Long Island 
(all; epi; n-a) Security Van Lines, Inc. (all; sp; n-a) Seton Leather Co. (all; sp) Sherwin-Williams Co. (all; sp; n-a) Signal Oil & Gas Co. (1; epi; n-a) Signode Corp. (all; n-a) Simmons Co., N.Y. (all; n-a) Simonds Saw & Steel Div. (all; n-a) Sinclair-Koppers Co. (all; n-a) Sinclair Oil Corp. (all; n-a) Singer Co. (1,2) Smith Kline & French Laboratories 
(all; n-a) Smith-Lee Co., Inc., N.Y. (all; n-a) Sperry & Hutchinson Co. (all; n-a) Spruce Falls Power & Paper Co., Ltd. 
(1; epr; n-a) Squibb Beech-Nut, Inc. (all; n-a) Slackpole Carbon Co. (all; n-a) Standard Oil Co. (Ind.) (1,2; n-a) Standard Oil Co. (N.J.) (all) Standard Oil Co. (Ohio) (all; n-a) Standard Pressed Steel Co. (all; n-a) Stauffer Chemical Co. (1,2; n-a) Steriing Drug Inc. (all; n-a) 
J. P. Stevens & Co., Inc. (all; n-a) Stone & Webster, Inc. (1,2; n-a) Suburban Propane Gas Corp. (all; n-a) Sunray DX Oil Co. (all; n-a) 
W. H. Sweney & Co. (lim) 
Taylor Corp. (all; sp; n-a) Tektronix, Inc. (all; n-a) 
C. Tennant, Sons & Co. of N.Y. 
(all; sp; n-a) Tenneco, Inc. (all; n-a) Texas Eastern Transmission Corp. 
(13* n-a) Textile Machine Worics (1.2; n-a) Textron Inc. (all; n-a) 
J. WaHer Thompson Co. (1,3; n-a) 
J. T. Thorpe Co. (1,2) Time, Inc. (all; n-a) Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc. 
(all: n-a) Towmotor Corp. (all; n-a) TRAGOR, Inc. (all) TiBn»Worid Airilnes (all; n-a) 

Travelers Insurance Companies 
(all; n-a) Turner Construction Co. (1,2) 
Union Oil Co. of California (1,2; n^) Uniroyal, Inc. (all; n-a) United Aircraft Corp. (1,2; n-a) United FmIt Co. Foundation, Inc. 
(all; n-a) United Illuminating Co. (all; sp; n-a) United States Borax & Chem. Corp. 
(1,2; epi; n-a) United States Trust Co. of N.Y. (all; n-a) Upjohn Co. (all; n-a) 
Varian Associates (1,2; n-a) Victaulic Co. of America (1,2) Vulcan Materials Co. (all; n-a) 
Wallace & Tieman Inc. (all; n-a) Wallingford Steel Co. (1,2; n-a) Wamer Brothers Co., Conn. 
(1,3; epi; n-a) Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical Co. 
(all; n-a) Wamer & Swasey Co. (all; n-a) Washington Nat Ins. Co. (all; n-a) Watkins-Johnson Co. (1,2) 
C. J. Webb, II (all; n-a) Welch Grape Juice Co., Inc. 
(all; Ipi; n-a) Western Publishing Co. (all; n-a) Westinghouse Air Brake Co. (1,2; n-a) Westinghouse Electric Corp. (1,2) 
Weyertiaeuwr Ca (ail: epi; M ) Whirtpool Corp. (ail; IM ) White Motor Cwp. (all; iKi) Joim WHay A Sow, inc. (ali: n-a) WHIiams & Ca. Pann. tan) Winn-Oixie SlofMi inc. (ali; sp; IM4 Wohwrine WMId Wide. inc. (1; n^) Worihinglon Corp. (1,2; n-m) WyarHMIa Ctiemicals Coip. 
(1Alpi;iMi) 
Xerox Corporation (all; sp; n-a) 
Young & Rubicam, inc. (all; epi; n^) 
Total: 404 
fteviaed November, 1968 
If you are contributing to the University of Notre Dame and are associated with one of the companies whose names appear in this listing, you can arrange to have a second gift sent to your alma mater, courtesy of your company. 
Sound easy? Well, it is. 
Periiaps the most pleasant aspect of gift-matching, next to the good such contributions do, is how easily you can arrange to have them sent. Once you have made your gift, just inform the appropriate persons at your company that you've done so. A matching check will be sent to your college soon thereafter, indicating that your gift made the matching gift possible. 
In effect, by matching your gift, your employer is recog­nizing the contribution which you, as an educated per­son, are making to your company. It's the boss' way of saying "thanks" to the college which helped to provide your education. 
To be sure, gift-matching is only one way in which businesses and corporations are assisting education. But it has become an increasingly significant source of an­nual support 
Won't you check over this listing to see if your company has such a program? If it does, take a moment to have your gift matched. You may be sure that both gifts will be gratefully received. 
KEY TO THE LISTING 
Remember that while neariy every program will match a gift to an institution, its alunmi fund or recdving foun­dation, most exclude from matching such things as chib or association dues or publication subscripti(»s. As a general rule, the program of a parent firm will sq^ily to its divisions, subsidiaries and affiliated companies. 
To receive more complete infonnatim on your com­pany's program, contact it directly. To assist you in identifying the important provisioas of these programs, some information has been coded in parentheses after each corporate title, as firilows: 
1  Four-year colleges and universities are eligible  
2  Graduate and professional schools are eligible  
3  Junior colleges  are  eligible  
ail  All three of the above are eligible  
epi  Program excludes public institutions  
ipi  Limited program for public institutions; per­ 
centage of public suppcHt or ca^tal gifts may  
be restricted; regular program for private in­ 
stitutions  
epr  Program excludes private institutions  
Ipr  Limited program for private institutions; regu­ 
lar program for puUic  
lim  Program is informal or restricted to a limited  
number of ^lecified instituti(»s or employes  
sp  Companies which will match gifts of a  apoux  
(husband or wife) of an digiUe emplpye  
sp-w  Companies which will match gifts of  a  wife  
of an eligible emphqre  
n-a  Will match gifts at  non-alumni  

CLASS NOTES 
'15 NEWS FROM NOTES A welcome note from RAYMOND J. KELLY, Detroit, Mich., saying "I was not able to make the June meeting but hope to be there next June, as 1 have another grandson graduating. My oldest grandson, 1st Lt Kelly, who graduated a few years ago, (1964 I think) will be returning from Vietnam this summer, after two years in Vietnam. So hereafter, with two sons and two grandsons who are graduates, I will probably be able to flag a ride, as I think they are all in different five-year groups. I have retired (I'll be 75 on Nov. IS) and am taking life easy with the help of several doctors, etc.—but I mean Quiet, Quiet This is not much news but it keeps you aware that I am still here." 
A note from JOHN A. WELCH: "It is certainly an unusual pleasure to receive birthday greetings from a friend I haven't seen in more than SO years. It seems to me that you were in Corby when I was, from 1913-15. I had been in Carroll Hall from 1911-13. King Farley was reigning and I was in chemistry lab with ROCK—^what a guy! He was waiting on tables in our refectoiy in 1911 before be was put on the training table. He had the concession on two pool tables in Corby recreation room, and when he went on football trips he asked me to collect the nickels, and I was proud. I appreciate your card, and may the wind be at your back." John says he has a grandson in Dillon Hall and two granddaughters at St Mary's. John is still active in the insurance business. His address is Circle Tower, Indianapolis, Ind. 46204. 
Our old friend ALVIN H. BERGER Ph.B. 'IS acknowledged a note from me regarding the death of MARCH FORTH "PREP" WELLS and said "as you say, they are cutting us oldsters down pretty fast" He asked "do you ever hear from DOLLY GRAY or where he is or what happened to him?" If anyone has the information, please send it to me. 
"HEINIE" says he didn't get to the reunion—has glaucoma and can't see too well at night In the daytime, his sight is about three-quarters of normal eyesight "My wife, Alice, and I spent the winter in Eustis, Fla.—^rather a cool winter, but that is right up my alley, being a 210-pounder." I sincerely hope the attendance of the 1915 class will be something of a record in 1970. 
Our good friend JAMES F. O'BRIEN '13 sent a clipping carrying a story about the life and death of ANTON R. HEBEN­STREIT '11, who resided at 200 Laguna Blvd., Albuquerque, N.M. He died June 28, after two years of continuing illness, having attained the age of 80. 
Jim O'Brien recalled that "Heb" Heben­streit and ELMO FUNK '11, whose death was reported a year ago, were roommates in old St Joe Hall. "I worked out West with them both after I finished in 1913," Jim says, "and kept in close touch with both ever since. I used to call Heb 'Mr. Albuquerque.' He came there at W.W.I-time as city engineer—Plater went into contracting and had various other interests. He owned and operated a radio and TV station there and also in Santa Fe. He was always active in many civic activities. Heb died in his adopted home town, the city he helped to build. It reflects the man's capacity to envision both opportunity and future. He was one of a rare breed." He is survived by his widow; his son, Bruce; one brother. Dr. Austin Hebenstreit Waupan, Wise.; four grandchildren and two great-granddiildren. BRUCE HEBENSTREIT, the son, is also an ND graduate. 

PAUL E. NEVILLE '42, executive editor of the Bugalo Evening News, died June 22. Since his graduation he served as political editor, sports editor and managing editor of the South Bend Tribune. He joined the Evening News in 1957. 
I would Uke to be of service to members of classes back to 1893 and thereafter. I welcome communications, hopefully containing information of interest to fellow alumni and others in the large ND family. 
Albert A. Kuhle 117 Sunset Ave. LaGrange, III. 60525 
'17 IS THAT THE TRUTH? 1969 REUNION 
First Old Crad: Well, well, SAY this is swell Second Old Grad: How are you, pal—^y'r 
lookin' well First O. G.: The same to you, by gosh I'm glad to see you here; How are you, lad? You 
know I told my wife, Marie, you were one guy I would like to see. 
Second O. G.: G'wan, get out; is that the truth? I said the same today to Ruth. 
First O. G.: Well, I gotta scram to lunch. Remember me to all the bimch. 
Second O. G.: You bet I will and say Hello to anyone we used to know. 
First—a minute Now whoinel could that later: guy be? He acted like he sure knew me. Second—a minute Well, he knew me but later: I'da swore I never saw the guy before. —^Paul Fogarty 
We deeply regret to report the passing of Lucile, the dearly beloved wife of CHARLES REAGAN of New York City, during May. Kindly remember her in your prayers and may her soul rest in peace. The book entitled The Modern Notre Dame Formation by our classmate, CHARLES 
W. BACHMAN, has been warmly re­ceived by sportswriters and book critics all over the country. It contains an interest­ing exchange of correspondence between Bach and Rock. If your book dealer does not have a copy, he will be glad to order one for you, or you can remit SS.2S directly to Charlie at 11 Sunset Lane, Pompano Beach, Fla. 33062. Dave Condon told one million Chicago Tribune readers, "Don't miss it if you Uke football." 
Dan E. Hilgartner P.O. Box 75 Harbert Mich. 49115 
'IS AND YEASS ROLL ON 
Birthday greetings to 50-Year Club: Sept 29, EDWARD F. RIELY LL.B. '17, Minonk, lU. 61760; Oct 5, LOUIS J. FINSKE LL.B. '19, Florida State Theatres, Jacksonville, Fla.; PETER J. RONCHETTI '18, 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi, Tex. 78404; Oct 7, THOMAS H. KING Ph.B. '18. 
Chamberry Circle, Louisville, Ky. 40200; Oct 9, THOMAS C. HUGHES 'II, 1738 Upas St, San Diego, Calif. 92103; Oct 10, LOUIS E. WAGNER Ph.BC. '18, 17 Wood St, Danbury, Conn. 06812; Oct 13, MAXI­MILIAN G. KAZUS LL.B. '18, 101 Knox Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14216; Oct 14, JOSEPH T. RILEY LL.B. "18, 715 Hackley Union, Muskegon, Mich.—^wedding anni­versary, Oct iO; Oct 19, H. THOMAS LAVERY LL.B. '19, 1733 W. 106 St, Chicago, III. 60643; Oct 29, WILLIAM A. GRADY '17, Box 596, Carrollton, Tex. 75006. 
Wedding anniversaries: Oct 8, HUGH S. CARROLL, B.S.-M.S. '18; Oct 26, JAMES GORDON WALLACE Ph.B. '18. 
Our sincere sympathies go to DAN "TEXAS" BILL GRADY—phoned from airport about the passing of Mrs. Hilgartner, wife of DANIEL E., eight days after celebrating their golden wedding anni­versary. Also, the passing of JAMES McMAHON LL.B. '17 and CHARLES G. CORCORAN '17, whose birthday was to be Oct 29. 
Pleased to hear Max Kazus and wife, with two grandchildren, enjoyed June reuiuon. Had visit with Rev. CON HAC­GERTY CSC and Rev. CHARLES J. WILLIAMS. Having had a "windfaU" as Max called it—he presented check to the law department CARLETON D. BEH— still has box D-14 at Gate 14—stop by and say hello. 
Have not heard about anyone being on "sick call" and that's good. Can report after conversation that the following are OK: FRANK X. RYDZEWSKI, LAMBERT Q. SENG and JOHN J. VOELKERS. Talked with JOHN A. LEMMER and am pleased to report that John and Phyllis are en­joying good health. Also that he heard from "WHITEY" NEIL J. WHALEN. That's aU. 
George B. Waage 
3305 Wrightwood Ave. 
Chicago, 111. 60647 
I* SYMPATHY EXTENDED 
Our alumni secretary has expressed condo­lence to Mrs. PAUL J. HOGAN, Glendive, Mont, having recently learned of Paul's death in 1968. I find in the Corby Hall register that Paul was listed as living there in 1917. I might assume that he left with many of our class for war activities and did not return to finish at ND after the war. 
Onr Fr. Pat Haggerty kept Corby Hallers on such a friendly basis, thou^ there were several room vacancies, that many should recall PauL 
PATRICK DIXON '67, a monogram man, a lieutenant with three awards for valor, involved in an airborne helicopter operation, was killed in Vietnam May 28. Quoting his captain and company com­mander, "Pat was the best rffle platoon leader I ever saw and in a crowd he was the one individual who would stand out and be recognized by all. His loss was a loss to the entire worid." 
As lieutenant governor of Illinois and commander of the first battalion 129th Infantry during his National Guard career, SHERWOOD DIXON has given exceptional service to the public and received great honors—well-deserved. Sherwood asks that letteis of sympathy from us be withheld as so many have been received that more just set them oS again. 
Next June, our SOtb anniversary will be 
1< 

here before we realize it You should have 
the complete list of our class from the 
Alumni Office by August as promised. 
Start now to prepare for the reunion — 
contact and persuade the more he»tant 
ones to come. 
James H. Ryan 
2470 East Ave., Apt. 314 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610 
•22 FR. FISCHER HONORED We have a report from EDWARD J. GOTTRY of New York City that he attended the grand occasion at North Dartmouth, Mass., in mid-June, when our classmate. Rev. GEORGE B. FISCHER CSC celebrated his 40th anniversary of ordination and received a wonderful tribute from friends among the religious and laity for his splendid missionary work. With the exception of the first five years after ordina­tion, when he was doing parish work in South Bend, his whole priestly efforts have been with the Holy Cross Mission Band, Eastern Province. Fr. George's territory extends from Nova Scotia to the Virginia Capes. He has frequent assign­ments at Saint Patrick's Cathedral in New York. The good priest is a great lover of music—vocal and instrumental. He, as a student at ND, was a member of the Glee Club and the Glee Club quartet Of course, we are only dreaming, but who of 12 would not like to see Fr. George at the podium directing the great Paulist Choir of happy memory, and don't think for one moment he would not make a go of it 
Our genial class president RALPH CORYN, and Mrs. Coryn, who were visiting their married daughter and family in To­ronto in late May and early June, stopped off in South Bend on the homeward journey and had dinner with FRANK BLOEMER of Florida and Louisville. Also, they had a surprise meeting with EDMUND "RED" SHEA "23 at the same place. 
The DAN YOUNGs of Dtexel HUI, Pa., were visiting Cape Cod and Nantucket Island, Mass., in late June. 
There is an up-to-date permanent address for HEARTLEY W. "HUNK" ANDERSON —917 N. Flagler Dr., West Pahn Beach, Fla. 33401. In eariy fall, the Andersons will be visiting their son. Bill, who is with IBM in Rochester, Minn. 
G. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd., N. Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
•24 FINDS NO TAKERS, SO . . . There were no takers for the offer to turn over this secretarial job, so here we go for another round. It is difficult to call these notes news items because we are compiling them in July for the September issue. 
Here are some changes of address. Class of '24 is still on the move, perhaps a move from activity to inactivity in many cases. If you are close enough, you might invite yourself to their housewarmings. RICHARD DEININGER from Decatur, Ind., to Rt 1, Rome City, Ind. 46784; WILLIAM J. CONNERS from Springfield to 813 Ridge Ave., Evanston, III. 60202; WILLIAM J. CROOK from Pipestone to Rt Ottertail, Minn. 56571—sounds like a dog-sled delivery route, but the zip code shows bow far civilization can reach. PAUL Mc-GARRY's new address in Green Valley, Aiiz., is 323 Las Hamacas, 85614. From Ottertail to Las Hamacas conjures up the concept from activity to retirement 
FRANK SABINE moved from Saginaw to 
211 Wisconsin St, Excelsior Springs, Mo. 
64024; and LEWIS J. FRICKE from one 
residence to another in South Beivd—^new 
address is 118 E. Calvert 46613. 
Don't wait to move to get your name in 
class notes. If you sneeze hard and blow out 
your upper plate, let us know about i t How 
many are still able to have "only one 
cavity, daddy"? How many can still use a 
comb to spruce up the roof? Is anyone 
willing to admit wearing a wig? Well 
publish it; we dare you. 
More sedately, we report that THOMAS 
EDWARD COOKE was recently elected 
president of the Chicago Building Congress. 
FRANK J. O'BOYLE, 2000 Malvern Ave., 
Dayton, Ohio 45406, has enjoyed retirement 
from Ohio Bell Telephone since 1962. He is 
planning to visit the campus in the fall. 
Maybe some others might make it a date 
and meet Frank there. He says, quite 
"frankly," that he hasn't attained great 
honors, but he has had a very pleasant life, 
a wonderful wife and a son without strife. 
You picked the best route for living, Frank. 
MATT ROTHERT informs us his family is 
grown, his oldest son is "helping" (quote 
marks are the editor's) in his business and 
Matt is beginning to retire. I.et go of the 
reins. Matt your son is probably anxious to 
initiate some modem ideas. Matt trades old 
U.S. paper money and other numismatic items . . . any classmates interested? 
Wish the Honorable JOHN KILKENNY hadn't switched classes from "24 to "25. He is always good for a news item. Perhaps you read of his appointment by President Nixon to judge of Federal District Court of Appeals. Originally from Pendleton, Ore., John will retain his address in Portland, Ore., even though bis official judicial head­quarters will be the West Coast District— San Francisco. John would have made it to the Supreme Court by now if he had stayed with us '24ers. 
Wondering about some of the '24ers we haven't heard from, we picked out a few names at random. What's new? . . . HUGH BLUNT, PAT BUELL, OWEN DESMOND, CLARENCE KERWIN, HUGH MAGEVNEY, CLIFF McINTOSH, VERNON RICKARD, JACK RYAN. Last I heard of Hugh Magevney was when he was on the pitching staff of the New York Giants soon after graduation. Vernon Rickard was flirting with Hollywood talent scouts back in the late 20's. 
James P. Durcan 
5400 S.W. Scholls Ferry Rd. 
Portland, Ore. 97225 
•25 BESIDES THE MOON LANDING Great to give you a bit of news that should make you '25ers "glad" instead of "sad." Here is the glad news (besides landing on the moon this Sunday afternoon— June 20, '69). JOHN F. KILKENNY has recently been appointed by President Nixon as a judge on the Ninth Circuit of Appeals in San Francisco. He has served as U.S. District Court judge in Portland, Ore., since 1959. Senate confirmation is expected. 
Word from JIM COONEY gives us some sad news. Dr. C. JOSEPH FOLEY died May 2, and his widow has been advised that both the alumni Mass as well as our class Mass will be said for Dr. Joe. Joe is the father of C. JOSEPH FOLEY JR. '65. 
Rev. THOMAS T. McAVOY CSC, ND 
archivist and a professor of histoiy, was 
fotuid dead at 10 ajn. July 7 in Us 
office in the Memorial libiaiy. He.was 
appointed director of the Unimsity 
Archives in 1929, and it became an 
important source of documentation in the 
area of eariy Cathidic Chnreh UsUny 
in the U.S. Fr. Tom was the antbor 
and editor of sevenl books on this subject 
His volume, 77ie Gnat Crisis in American 
Catholic History, 1885-1900, won the 
John Gilmaiy ^lay prize for history upon 
publicatk>n in 1957. He had just fimshed 
working on page ptoOb of a forthcoming 
general history of the Cfaurdi in die U.S. 
You fellows who arc in your "retiied 
stage" or "on the job," take time to send 
me news of yourselves. 
John P. Huriey 
2085 Brookdale Rd. 
Toledo, Ohio 43606 
17 ANOTHER ND FIRST 
A few months ago I passed on some news of EVERETT C. BROWN, whose address is presently Rambla Gen. Franco, 107, Santa Cruz, Tenetife, Islas Canarias, Spain. The Alumni Office has now re-, ceived further word from him. He has a suspicion that he was the first hombre of ND alumni to visit aboard the Queen Elizabeth the Second. He says, "This gracious lady made Santa Cruz, Tenetife, a port of call on her sh^tedown cruise." Everett also feels that black histoiy, although an inflammable subject should not be curtailed. His letter goes on, "I have found on one of my Afirican safaris some on-rich Arabs, descendants of the original Arabs who deprived the first American slaves of their birthri^t by capturing them and sdling them to the Southern {banters. So I maintain that the indemnity for loss of birthii^t should first come from this source of descendants, rather than to aruioy the present-day churches et al. Take it or leave it " 
ARNOLD B. PETERSCHMIDT sends word that after being associated with the U. of Portland for 42 years as a facidty member and dean of the college of busi­ness and controller for 17 years, he has retired as of May 31, 1969. His letter continues, "Some years ago I became involved in labor-management relations work and for more than 10 years have been on the federal mediation and conciliation service panel of labor aibitratois. Since 1961 I have been on the Oregon Labor-Management Relations Board and for five years have been its chairman. The appointment was made originally by the then Governor (now Seiutor) Hatfield and reappointment by Governor Tom McCall. I expect to continue service in this field. Mrs. Peterschmidt (Josephine Dundon) and 1 have four childien and 13 grandchndreiL" Arnold's address is 5005 
N. Willamette Blvd., Portland, Ore. 
JIM COLLINS of Qevdand sent word a few weeks ago that TOM BYRNE is in Highlandview Hospital in that dty. Jim reports that Tom's principle trouble is arthritis and he had just had an operation on his hip because of i t Tom undoubtedly woidd like to hear from his classmates. 
Clarence J. Ruddy 111 W. Downer Place Aurora, HL 60504 
•2S MISSING KR90N FOUND GEORGE CRONGEYER was host at a 
luncheon at the Metropolitan Insurance Co. 
in New York City to BERNIE GARBER, 
JOHN ANTUS, AL MAHAR and your 
class secretary in June. Al Mahar, who 
has been missing on our class roster for 
years, brought us up to date on his 
interesting adventures throughout the world. 
Al had just returned from visiting ART 
HOLTON in Washington, D.C. 
VINCE CARNEY visited ED FINN in 
Salida, Colo. I was sorry to hear that 
Ed's wife died in March. I also regretted 
hearing of the death of General J. F. 
McManmon, a brother of our classmate 
JOHN McMANMON. TOM LAVELLE's 
son. Rev. John celebrated his first 
Mass May 25 in Lafayette ahd received his 
Master of Divinity degree from St. Meinrad 
School of Theology. He is assistant 
pastor at St. Thomas Aquinas Church at 
Purdue U. Other classmates with sons 
who are priests include ED McCLARNON, 
JOE FETHG and JOHN CARLIN. Are 
there others to be added to this list? 
JOE BREIG advised us that TOM (Bell 
Telephone) BYRNE had a successful hip 
socket operation. BILL MURPHY sent 
me a clipping about PHIL PITON, 
president of the minor leagues, serving on 
the arbitration board which made the award 
to the Pacific Coast League for loss of its 
Seattle and San Diego franchises. Rev. 
ANDY MULREANY CSC visited Bill 
Murphy on his way east in July. 
JIM ALLAN provided another get-together of '28 men at a party introducing his future daughter-in-law. Classmates BUI Murphy, ED McKEOWN, BILL DWYER, HOWARD PHALIN, JOE HILGER and your class secretary attended. I was pleased to see Ed McKeown looking very well again after two bouts with surgery. It was also great to hear that Marion Hilger, the wife of Joe Hilger, has been appointed by the Governor of Indiana to the chairmanship of the Indiana Welfare Board. FRANK CREADON took my suggestion in the May ALUMNUS and has been in contact with Rev. George Dum CSC concerning their mutual interest—music. 
BOTTS CROWLEY is keeping busy since retirement doing work for MacGregor, Hanna Bat Co., the Cincinnati Reds, etc. He is visiting my favorite foreign country, Sweden, this summer. Our class vice-president for the West, CHRISTIE FLANNIGAN, heard from Fr. Andy Mulreany who mentioned that GEORGE LEPPIG's son was graduated from West Point this year. 
BERNIE BIRD will attend our '28 party after the U.S.C. game with his two sons, one of whom is completing his residency in ophthalmology at Passavant Hospital after serving in the Medical Corps. The Birds will celebrate the 35th anniversary of their wedding in the Log Chapel with Howie and Pete Phalin as the other two principals. Bill Murphy reports that Kitty Rice, widow of Chet, will again be with us at the "28 party after the 
U.S.C. game. RUBS SMITH will also be there. 
Jersey journalist GENE FARRELL had a good session with Rev. JIM McSHANE SJ, who was in the East gathering necessary supplies and equipment for his Central American mission. Gene inquired as to whether our class might be interested in hdjnng Fr. Jim with movie equipment since he does a lot of his preaching through films. Drop Gene a line if you are interested in this proposal. 

Helen Wagner wrote advising how much 
she appreciated receiving many fine letteis 
from WAG's '28 classmates. I also bad 
many letters with comments such as "Wag 
had a fine mixture of humor and serious­
ness" from BOB NICKELS in Califoniia, 
and "I always liked that warm personality 
of his" from DAVE SMITH in Florida. 
John Higgins '21 sent me a clipping 

regarding a testimonial in honor of Judge 
THOMAS C. MURPHY, who retired 

after serving as probate judge for 35 years 
in Detroit Tom was from South Bend 
when he was with our class at ND and 
served as treasurer of our sophomore 
class. Congratulations, Tom, on your 

splendid record of service. I hope you will 
be with us for our 4Sth reunion. 

We had a very enjoyable visit with Judge 
GEORGE BEAMER in Munster, Ind., 

where we found the judge and his wife 
working on their lawn. We spent consid­
erable time reminiscing about the late 
Willard Wagner. 

Plan to attend the '28 class party at JOE DORAN's home near Lafayette after the Purdue game on Sept 27 and our 15th annual Class of '28 party after the Southern California game on Oct 18 on the campus. Advise ED QUINN, 426 N. Sunnyside, South Bend, Ind. 46617, that you will attend. 
Louis F. Buckley 
6415 N. Sheridan Rd., Apt 1007 
Chicago, 111. 60626 

19 A LOOK AT THE RECORD Let's look at the record. Let me share some notes that I have from '29eTs who obvi­ously were looking toward the campus last June 6. From ILLY BYRNE, retired educator, San Francisco Board of Educa­tion: "I have been retired since February, 1962, because of a heart condition and emphysema. I'm living on 11th green, Aptos Beach Golf Club and trying to keep going in spite of two attacks of the fiu. I'm on the bench but hope to make the long one in June." BOB VOGELWEDE: "Bring back my suit that was missing when I got out of pest house in 1927. Remember? Say heUo to HUGH McMAN-IGAL who was so nice to me in 1959. I wish you all luck and many years. DAVE HICKEY and his wife stopped by recently." 
From BILL DICK in Denver via STEVE McPARTLlN: "Dear Steve, I'd surely like to accept your invitation for the June reunion but won't be able to make i t I haven't heard from CONWAY or HICKEY. My wife and I have heard so much about the Northwest — Vancouver, 
B.C. — that we plan to take a look. Thanks again, I'm sorry that I can't join you for a few. Have a tall, cold one for yours truly. I hope that you are feeling much better." 
We have more news directly from Steve, who was here in June: "Pardon my delay in returning my memo of 'early' intent It was occasioned by an operation in January on one of my vocal cords. While this was for removal of a nonmalignant polyp (Deo Gratias!), the resultant annoyance of a squeaky voice has been a bit fnistratiiig (particularly to a guy who makes a living as a salesman). Tiny Hm does all night, but I haven't enou^ hair. I'd like to see JOHN ROULET. We were tentmates at Judge Wooten's home the first half of our freshman year, until I stayed out too late one night and Pepper moved me to Howard Hall, where I wanted to go 
anyway. My cousin, JOHN McGOORTY, 
will be back for his 45th, and another 
cousin, JOHN BUTLER, celebrated his 40th 
two years ago. This will be my first reunion, 
so it's about time 1 retunt I hope to see 
high school classmates CLARENCE JANS, 
JOHN DORGAN, RAY DRYMALSKI 
and grade school classmates IRV COR­
CORAN and KARL MARTERSTECK." 
WALTER A. DONNELLY wired as 
follows on June 7: "Larry, jdease extend 
best wishes to alL I regret an extended 
trial makes it impossible to attend." 
ROBERT ALT wired: "My sincere greet­
ings and good wishes to all my former 
classmates and fine friends attending our 
40th year reunioit I fully expected to be 
with you on this happy occasion but an 
unforeseen circumstance prevented my com­
ing. 1 regret it particularly as this is 
my first absence from a five-year event God 
bless you all and I do hope that we may 
meet again five years hence." 
This news from JACK KEARNS: "1 want especially to see JIM KENNEDY and JOHN COLANGELO; however, my daughter is finishing Marquette May 25 and my sister's son, WILLIAM McCULLY, is finishing ND Uiis year. We plan to make that commencement and I'm not sure that I can make three weeks in a row. (But he did.) My older son, JOHN '58, is teach­ing phUosophy at the State U. of New York at Buffalo, and my younger one, JIM '66, is a first lieutenant in the Army in Germany. Ruth and I hope to visit him in July." 
There is just no easy way to lead into those inevitable notices of death. ROBERT 
K. POLLEY, whose widow resides at 2536 W. 102nd Place, Chicago, died last Dec. 30. July 15, 1969, DANIEL 1. MCCAIN, retired captain C.P.D., who had lived at 4300 Marine Dr., Chicago, was laid to rest We thank STEVE McPHART-LIN for forwarding the information on Capt McCain. Their classmates will remember them in their prayers and wish me to extend our condolences to those who survive. 
Remember to make plans to see your classmates in the Engineering Building immediately after the Oct 18 football game with Southern California. Hie songs are ended but the memories linger on. We repeat our thanks to FRANCIS MEYER who did so much to give us a permanent record of a memorable weekend. 
Your secretary has oidy one regret. There were many whom he recalls seeing June S, 6 and 7, but few whom he really visited with at leisure, and fewer still whom he has news about for the next column. Please, whether you were here or not, send us news. We need it! 
Lawrence F. Stauder Electrical Engineering Dept Engineering Bldg. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
•SI
 INCLUDE SOME NEWS You have all received a letter from JOHN 

F.
 SAUNDERS, class agent, requesting support of the 27th Annual Alumni Drive. I hope that when making your return you will also remember to include some class news as requested, and this will be for­warded to me for the 1931 column. 


RAY COLLINS visited with LEO KLETZLEY in Houston during the Serra Intematioiial Convention in June. WILBERT L. TERRE is a chemist with Stanffer Chemical Co., Chicago Heights, 111. 

Old f at^s • • • nen^ plaees 
"And how is Zygmund Kucharczuk these days?" is a question often asked by visiting alumni. Only it doesn't come out in exactly those words — more likely, it's: "Where the hell is Ziggy?" Ziggy, major­domo of the South Dining Hall since the memory of man runs not to the contrary and maitre d' to a whole firmament of notables, from Pope Pius XII (then Cardinal) to every coach from Rockne on, recipient of the barbs and blandishments of many generations of students, especially the waiters and busboys, is alive and well, thank you. He lives in busy retirement (since 1965) in South Bend. When he isn't visiting his children and their families in New York, Florida, or Tacoma, Wash., he is a part-time salesman of aluminum doors and awnings ("the best," he says). As a hobby or at the per­suading of his neighbors and/or customers, he'll install them, and when friends want to do a redesigning or decorating job on their homes, they often call on Ziggy for help in the kitchen and dining room areas, natch. And he loves to reminisce about ND: When he arrived from New York in 1929, he signed on as coffee chef in the dining hall, but his knowledge of the languages (Polish, German, Slavic) of other employes made him a useful mediator and he was soon on the way up — to assistant head dishwasher and then headwaiter, steward and service manager. For the last 10 years of his career, following the departure of Tommy Owens, he held all three jobs. He recalls that Dean Thomas Bergin 
His wife, Magdalene Ann, died suddenly in December after a short illness. The Alumni Office also advises that two of our classmates, ALEXANDER J. ABROHAM, South Bend, and FRANCIS W. BROWN, Denver, Colo., were called to their eternal rewards in the past few months. Your prayers are requested for the repose of their souls. 
I received a warm note from EDWARD 
T. RILEY, Burlington, Iowa, enclosing a check for the Moon Mullins Memorial Trust Fund, which I am forwarding to the bank handling this fund. No news on local classmates since the last ALUMNUS. I have been in touch with SPIKE SUL­LIVAN, TOM MONAHAN and MATT GARRIGAN regarding our fall reunion fol­lowing the Michigan State game on campus Oct. 4, 1969. We have reserved space in the new Athletic and Convocation Center for this affair. This building is very close to the alumni section of the stadium and will give afirsthand inspection of this fine building to those who have not yet had an opportunity to attend any functions 
of the Continuing Education Center worked for him as secretary and timekeeper, and that another student worker, named Edmund Joyce, started in the bake shop — he, too, moved up, to executive vice-president. Says Ziggy happily: "I knew those boys were going to make it." 
Rev. ROBERT LOCHNER CSC '37 wore a variety of hats while assigned to ND from 1947 to 1962 and has had a variety of experieiKes since then. On campus he was, among other things, teacher of theology, hall prefect and rector, foreign student advisor, director of the Marriage Institute, director of student aid, assistant University chaplain and chaplain to the Hawaiian Club. From 1962 to 1965 he was stationed at the U. of Portland in Oregon, where he was director of scholarships and of foreign students and Peace Corps liaison officer. One of the most interesting experiences of his life, he reports, was a summer spent at the U. of Hawaii's Institute on Asian Studies. While there, he paid a memorable visit to Rev. Damien's leper colony at Molokai, where he took a series of slide pictures which have served him well in his most recent assignment: director and retreat master at the Holy Cross Fathers' retreat house in Pineville, La. Fr. Lochner also spent a year as chaplain at St. Edward's High School, Cleveland, and even managed to get back to the campus for a while to do a spot job on the CSC archives. Recently, word has been received of his reassignment to ND, where he will be a hall prefect 
there. We have a room adjoining the 
Monogram Lounge and will look forward 
to seeing many of you there. An an­
nouncement will also be made at the game. 
James T. Doyle 
1567 Ridge Ave. Evanston, 111. 60201 
'32 FROM LETTERS AND CARDS I had a nice letter from Dr. JOHN M. KEANEY JR. of Louisville as foUows: "Dear Flo: Haven't seen you for many a year and probably this is thefirst time 
I've written you since '32. I have very little news for you. In fact, the main 
reason I'm writing is to ask you for infor­mation. My son, John, is getting married Sept 20, in New York, and of course we will all be there for that. As manytimes as I have t>een to New York, I have never yet been to GENE CONNELLY'S restaurant Could you tell me where it is or the name? I would like to visit it and see Gene in September. BOlie (my wife) and I are going to the Michigan State 
Ziggy in his old domain. 
and assistant University chaplain — for openers. 
There are several priests of an earlier era at ND who now live in retirement at Holy Cross House, the CSC infirmary on campus. Rev. PETER FORRESTAL '11. long-time teacher of ^lanish and Spanish literature, and rector of Sorin Hall, still continues his spiritual ministry to the Mexican families, both mi^ant and permanent, in the South Bend area. Rev. THOMAS LAHEY '11 taught English, advertising and journalism at both ND and St Mary's and was associate editor and staff writer on the Ave Maria magazine. His well-known column, "Bits Out of Life," was always good for a surprise, an argument or a letter to the editor. 
Rev. John Wilson CSC 
Box D Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
game this year. We always go up on 
Thursday, play golf Friday and go to 
the game Saturday. This year TED 
HALPIN promised me he would meet me 
for the long weekend. Ted calk me 
occasionally. It is usually late at night and 
after be has had a seven-course dinner 
(to him that's two cups of soup and five 
double martinis). Best reguds, Jdbn Keaney." 
Well, John, I hope I get to see you in New York. Gene has two restaurants, 
both called Conndly's Restaurant The 
nuun one b at 110 E. 23rd St, in 
Manhattan; the other at 299 3nl Ave. CaU Gene at 212-777-9783. 
And a post card from MIKE "KELLY' POWERS and fais lovdy wife. Shorty, 
from the campu»—on a country-wide tour 
before settling in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Mike has retired. God bless them. 
JOHN W. HAMILTON, now in Norco, La., sends a card asking for news of 
DONKILUAN. I think KiDiatt is stiU in West Chester, Pa. 
Good news from JOHN JOSEPH 




Congrats 
HOWARD C. CUSACK '36 has been named manager of the office admin­istration department at the Travelers Insurance Co.'s Newark, NJ. , office. He joined the company in 1941 at Brooklyn, N.Y., and in 1954 was named manager of the Yonkers, N.Y., office. He resides with his wife and four children in New York City. 
PHILIP J. MALONEY '39 has been appointed director of a new National Housing Center Commission by the National Assn. of Home Builders. Maloney formerly was deputy assistant secretary of housing and urban development for Mortage Credit and also deputy commissioner of the Federal Housing Administration. 
MARTIN L. INGWERSEN '41, vice-president of operations at Lockheed Shipbuilding and Construction Co., has been named executive vice-president of the company. He lives with his wife and their three children on Mercer Island, Wash. 
ROBERT E. FELTES '49, company controller of Container Corp. of America, was elected a vice-president of the company. He joined the company in 1954 as internal auditor in the corporate headquarters in Chicago. He has since served as plant controller in the Fernandina Beach, Fla., and Los Angeles, Calif., shipping container facilities. He now resides in Glencoe, 111., with his wife and three children. 
PAUL A. HESSLING '52 has been named assistant treasurer of the First Bank and Trust Co. in South Bend, Ind. In the marketing services division the last one and a half years, he will direct the computer services section and master charge card program. 
PAUL J. ROHMAN JR. '54 has been named to the newly created position of Eastern financial sales manager for the Ford Motor Credit Co. in Dear­bom, Mich. He will supervise that office, as well as the newly formed Pittsburgh office. 
JAMESON STAUNTON (that's what the program says) who has just received the honorary degree of Doctor of Engineering from Midwest College of En^eering in Lombard, III. John also writes, "This is a year of anniversaries — 30th for both my maniage and service with my company. I am also four times a grandfather." Thank you, John. 
WALTER BLANCHARD has left St. Petersburg, Fla., for 11885 Walker, Seminole, Fla. 33S40. MANSEL MILLER, formerly of Birmingham, Ala., is now at 3630 Hickory Lane, Lafayette, Ind. 47905. And BADEN POWELL has left San Diego, Calif., and is now at Box 235, Maishalltown, Iowa 501S8. 
that's all for now. See you at the Army game. 
Florence J. McCarthy 6 River Rd. 
Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583 
^3 SEE YOU IN N.Y.C. Our Army game eve reunion will be at the Vanderbat Suite, Biltmore Hotel, 43rd and Madison Ave., New York City, 6 p.m. to 10 p.m., Oct. 10, prior to the N.Y. club's rally. 
CEIARLES A. QUINN, chairman of the reunion, asks that you write him at: 9 Jochum Ave., Larchmont, N.Y. 10538. Charlie needs to know how many classmates will attend. His home phone is: 914-TE4-3557. Mrs. Quinn has graciously agreed to take messages and to furnish information. 
On the reunion committee are SAM HYDE, GEORGE ROHRS and JACK SOISSON. Out-of-town members include LARRY SEXTON and JACK O'SHAUGH­NESSY. Sam Hyde tells me that he and BILL HIGGINS have talked to a few of the fellows recently about the reunion —including BOB GELHAUS, BOB DONOVAN and JIM GEREND. So far, they all think it is a good idea. 
The reuiuon will be informal and you may arrange for your drinks. ED STEPHAN. Rev. CHICK SHEEDY, ED KRAUSE and BOB CAHILL have been invited to make brief remarks. Class president. Judge MAURIE LEE, will be presented with Elks Centennial Jim Beam during the festivities. Please inform Chairman Charlie Quinn of your intention to attend! 
Sam Hyde confirmed that another old Brownsonite, Dr. JOE EGAN, is dead. Sam and Joe were from LaCrosse, Wis. ED TROY has escaped the Wisconsin cold by setting up a business in suimy California. JOE DAVEY, the friendly Democrat, is proud of the ND image through all the student tmrest Joe's oldest son, JOHN '61, is asastant prosecuting attorney for Oakland County, Mich. 
GEORGE J. ROHRS mentions that his son, Chris, just finished his sophomore year at ND. George saw JACK HOYT at the Cardinal Cooke reception. PATRICK 
P. BURNS was presented a certificate of appreciation for his 20 years of service on the Natchez, Miss., draft board. Pat and RED BARRETT taught me to speak with a Southern accent Red has deserted the Deep South for Paris, Tex. 
KARL VOGELHEIM spent Easter in Mexico whae he visited LUCIO MUNIAN luid his lovely wife, Clementina. Ask Liicio to send his address as he is not on the dass mailing list! Kari caUed FRAN WERNER &Dm the airport in Green Bay but couldn't reach him. ED ROXAS, «4io bounces between Spain and the Philippines, sent the Vogelheims a card and note at Christmas. Concluding, Kari says hell be at the Michigan State-ND game and will stay at the Holiday Inn in Elkhart 

Our classmate, PAUL M. CALLACHAN, died June 28, 1969. He was the father of GREGORY '66 and MICHAEL '69. A Mass has been celebrated at the request of our class in his remembrance by Rev. JIM DONNELLY. Condolences may be sent to Mrs. Callagfaan at 445 West Main St, BeUevue, Ohio 44811. 
JIM McGILL tells me that he sees MAURY DeWALD and JACK O'CON­NOR in Fort Wayne. CHARLIE QUINN attended his son's graduation in the new Athletic and Convocation Center and spoke to Ed Stephan and Fr. Chick Sheedy. ED COUGH was also there to watch his son, PAUL, graduate. Ed saw classmate BILL MITSCH and the "old master," FRANK LEAHY, who had sons in the graduating class. Ed will attend the ND-So. Cal game this fall and will look for the '33 gang. 
Dr. ED SIEGFRIED, now in Mount Oemens, Mich., sends the sad news that JOHN "PETE" HESS died about two years ago after a series of heart attacks. Ed and Pete came from Chillicothe, Ohio, and, 40 years ago, lived with me in Brownson Hall. Jack Soisson will be in touch with JOE BEAN about our Army game reunion. BOB JOHNSTON, Harrisburg, Pa., who plans to attend the Army game with his family, will be at our reunion Oct 10. 
JACK HOiT, our former secretary, writes he is extremely busy with the affairs of the archdiocese of New York and, in addition, is counsel to and a director of the Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. We hope to see you at the reunion. Jack! 
JOHN A. PENOTE, our class agent for deferred giving, recently sent to all of you an informative letter about including ND in your estate plans. Please give the letter your attention and write to John for any additional information needed. 
Rev. LLOYD TESKE is happy to be back at the U. of Portland where he is assistant dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. 
Charles A. Conley 
100 East Tumbull Ave. Havertown, Pa. 19083 
•34 RECEIVES 35 LETTERS I do hope you enjoyed the report about the men who attended the reunion. Many did not make an entry in JIM FAGAN's notebook; CHARLEY QUINN was one of those. This report is limited to 7S0 words and I have 35 wonderful letters to report from. Sorry to say, I can only report on the highlights from each letter. I will use them at a later date if possible. 
JOHN J. BRUST is an architect in Mil­waukee. His son is also an architect He graduated at the top of his class and also has a master's in buaness. ED BUTLER is still with Bell TdejAone Co. of Peimsylvaiiia. Lives on his boat during summer months at Cape Island Marina, East Basin, Cape May, N J. 
JOHN F. CARMODY has his own law practice in Moberly, Mo. Graduated from Harvard Law School, John is a diabetic and could not attend our reuiuon. Married Evelyn Mary Guerri in 1955. JOHN F. CARR—living in Flint, Mich. 
With AC Spark Plug division of General Motors Corp. P. J. "PAT' CARROLL lives in Nashville, Tenn., and is with a division of the Murray, Ohio, Manufac­turing Co. His son graduated from West Point in 1961. Has four grandchildren. Pat hears from BILL BECKLEY once in a while. 
JOSEPH A. CAULFIELD is with Camp­bell Soups in Kansas City. Joe had a chat with SID STEINBERG on his way back to Phoenix. Reports DON DWYER is in refrigeration business in New York. JOE CLARK sent a note from a cloistered monastery for nuns in Durham, N.C. EMMETT CONKLING retired from the Air Force as a colonel. Now with Boeing Co. Living at 2500 81st SE—Apt 119, Mercer Island, Wash. 98040. He is an engineering supervisor. One daughter at­tending Barry College in Miami, Fla. 
GEORGE CUMMINGS is with Legallet Wool Co., Inc.—^Legallet Tanning Co., 
P.O. Box 24068, San Francisco, 94124. Has two children and three grandchildren. BOB DEMER (Robert J.)—a claims attorney for Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. at regional office in Harrisburg, Pa. ROBERT T. FITZSIMON, manager of production engineering, hospital products division of Abbott Laboratories at North Chicago. One son an ND graduate of 1960. 
ED DULIN—back in San Antonio, Tex., with Southwestern Bell Telephone Co., reports FitzSimon. HOWARD J. GIL­LESPIE with Paterson Mack Distributors, Inc.—P.O. Box 128, East Paterson, NJ. 07407. Howard was president of the Central Jersey Club. D. BERNARD HENNESSY—son, DAVID, graduated this June. Could not come back for reunion. His letter was really beautiful. 
HENRY SCHAFFER, Newton Square, Pa. — his son, Michael, graduates this year from ND. JIM FORREST, 429 Williams St, Stoneham, Mass. 02180-4ad a stroke a few years ago. Red is able to get down to the shore. JOHN J. HOBAN resides in Belleville, III. John has ofiSce in East St Louis, III. His son is a junior at 
U. of Santa Clara. 
JOHN W. O'NEIL — St Louis — vice-president of Boatmen's National Bank of St Louis. Married 30 years in October. Three children—all college graduates. W. J. SHERIDAN JR—attorney at law^P.O. Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Bill has lived in the tropics since 1940. CHARLIE QUINN—attending grad school for library science. Summer address: Mineola 16, L.L, N.Y. His daughter, Kitty, is a grad of SMC, teaching now at St Louis U. Medical School. 
AUGUST VON BOECKLIN—president of Lifetime Federal Savings and Loan Assn., 1007 Pacific Ave., Tacoma, Wash. 98401. Son, DICK, finished ND in 1964. JOSEPH L. WATTERS—dentist in Ironton, Ohio 45638. Son, CHRISTO­PHER, ND '61. Has a master's and doc­torate in biology from Princeton and did two years of postdoctorate work at the 
U. of Minnesota. Now professor of biology at Middleburg College in Vermont 
Ed Moran Moran Supply Co. 2501 N. Central Ave. Chicago, III. 60639 
'3* TAKES SECOND MOONWAUC Congratulations to THOMAS P. FOY, who proved that romance still is with us '38ets by taking his second moonwalk. 
Tom manied Joan Carney SMC '41 le­cently in Sflver City, NJM., lAete he is a lawyer and senior vice-pie^dent and counsel for.the Grant Cbonly Bank. He also counsds five doldren, C^ia at St Mary's. Tom Jr. at ND. pins Muffet, Joe 
and Jimmy. And, no doubt, (he (dd Giimd 
Knight is doing a gnnd job stiD. 
Lt CoL G. G. Sdiaefer (USAF) kept the cbaiuels of comminiifation opeii writing from Spain vdMte he is seeUng a doctorate in lingi^stics at U. of Sevffle since retiring from the Air Force last Augost Four of his six children are in Spanish sdKXds "and really entienden eqanoL" If any classmates or alumni ate passing by, Gerry says "onr hospiudity is specifically extended." 
Take him up on it. lads. Two who hosted my wife, Helene, and me on our re­cent CFM study tour around the world have already been to our home. A Kev. Sasaki, the father of Boys' Town in Jqan, stopped in for a night on his way to Brazil, and former Philippine congressman Toning de Pio and wife, of Cebu City, spent three days with us in July. 
No classmates have shown up, but they've been on the mne. WILLIAM J. FISH, the old bowling diafflpion and quoter of Chesterton, moved from Ohio to 1170 W. Wellington Dr.. Deltona. Fla. FRANCIS J. MEYER left 80 TokcM Rd.. Glen Mills. Pa. (and no questions asked), for 1600 Ccdina Dr., Oendale, Calif. ROY KLECKA switched from Tempe to 8211 
E. Garfield, Scottsdale, Aiiz: JOHN HURST edged over from Des Plauies, IlL, to 1139 Juniper Lan^ Mt Prospect, HL TOM ATKINSON left Endno, Calif., for 13439 Mootpark, Sherman Oaks, Calif., and DAN MURPHY followed suit, leaving Endno for 32108 Beachview Lute, Westlake Village, CaKf. What's with Endno? 
If your football ticket applications are returned to you as mine have been, try writing to me. 111 guarantee acceptance— of news, not ticket apps! If you're lucky to get to a game, caU me. I'm listed in Bell, if not in D A B. As they say in Minnesota. "REMEMBER THE SWEDE!" 
Bumie Bauer 
1139 Western Ave. South Bend, Ind. 46625 
3 f HELLO. JDW "Hello, Jim. No, not a word from the many who so vocally promised to fin us iit Guess they haven't yet recovered from the effects of the greatest lennian of the greatest class . . . yes, they're still the greatest Glad to hear the brochure will soon be going out Incidentally, as I mentioned so briefly in die last issDe, well have a social hour over at O'Shan^nesy immediate^ after the Midiigan State game Oct 4, so mark your calendar. It will be announced again during the game. See you then." 
Joe Haiman 1804 Gicenwood Dr. South Bend. Ind. 46614 
'4t BOTE SnONGS EIEKNAL Let us hope dut widi my relocation and getting settled in Soudi Bend all the mes­sages the men of '40 have sent ate metety delayed and will readi me soon. 
Althou^ maity <tf us will meet during football season at Gate 3 after the games and I will constantly be lenundinf evety­
one of our 30th reunion next June, I want each of you to make definite plans now for our grand weekend in June, 1970. The group picture of our last reunion brings back very pleasant memories, and I urge those of you who missed it to make a real effort to get back in 1970. 
It has been most disconcerting to be unable to find a very interesting letter, especially when news is so scarce. I publicly apologize to JOHN DILLON for mis­placing his communication during my moving operations. Jack is a judge in the Pittsburgh, Pa., area and I promise to report more in the next issue. 
THOMAS P. WALL JR. writes that he is presently engaged in the following activi­ties: the practice of law, the practice and management of family investments, and the teaching of history of Western civiliza­tion at Aquinas College in Nashville, Tenn. 
Dr. WILLIAM R. WICKS is chief of anesthesiology at SL Joseph Hospital in Alton, 111. Mass has been offered on the campus for the mother of BERNIE CRAWFORD. The men of '40 express their condolences with prayers, Bemie. 
The news has been brief, the comments numerous, and in an effort to reverse that situation, send news. Remember the reunion in June, 1970. 
Robert G. Sanford 
302 Rue Rabelais, Apt. 620 
South Bend, Ind. 46615 
'43 ND REVISITED Your secretary visited the campus recently and spent some time with BILL EARLEY, who is on the mend after a four-week stay in the hospital as the result of a coronary attack. A call to C.P.A. DAN KLEIN'S residence found him out of town on business. Enjoyed a visit with chief prospector Bro. CONAN at the Gold Mine and chatted with the ever-energetic Rev. JOHN O'BRIEN. 
Attended the third annual luncheon of the Chicago Chapter of the National Football Foundation Hall of Fame recently. ND was well represented, as GEORGE CON­NOR is chapter president, and our own JOE KEENAN is vice-president. ZIGGIE CZAROBSKI served as master of cere­monies. Other NDers present were FRANK LEAHY, ELMER LAYDEN, FRANK KAUFFMAN and TONY GIROLAMI. Joe heads Edwards Electric Co. at 1341 W. Washington, Chicago, and Tony is a circuit court clerk. 
The two players sharing the catching duties for JAKE KLINE's nine the past season were the sons of HARRY WRIGHT and JOE KEENAN. BILL EARLEY informs me that Harry Wright has another football player son entering ND this fall. Harry's older son, Jim, the catcher, saw considerable action last year as a sophomore linebacker until injured and lost for the remainder of the season. 
Unless there's some mail for this column within the next 30 days, the postal dqtartment informed me that they will lay off the postal clerk, and that would be drastic for Chatsworth's economy. 
Frank W. Kaiser 
307 Cherry St Chatswortii, lU. 60921 
'44 A FERFLEXED '44ER Only yesterday, not really, the last column went to press. It seems ibai way, but it was five weeks ago. However, in summer. 

time passes ever so quickly and anodier 
deadline is upon this procrastinatiiig 
secretary. 

TOM McCARTY is a perplexed '44er. He entered ND in the fall of '41, was in the NROTC and was commissioned in early '44, received a B.N.S. war degree in June, '44, returned to ND in the fall of '46 and finally received a B.S. in June, '47. Since he feels free to select his class, he decided on ND's finest, the Class of '44. After graduation, Tom entered the Trappists, made solemn profession in '52 and was ordained in '56. Fr. Tom lives at New Melleray Abbey, Dubuque, Iowa, and looks forward to the future of the Church with much optimism. 
Sympathy and prayers are extended to the family of fellow classmate ROLAND BELLADONNA SR. who died in March. His death was not reported until after the reunion in June, so his name was not included in the list of deceased '44er5. Roland's home was in Logan, W.Va. 
A second member of the Class of '44 was appointed to the ranks of the hierarchy. Msgr. GEORGE R. EVANS was named titular bishop of Tubyza and auxiliaiy bishop of the archdiocese of Denver. In addition to his duties as auxiliary. Bishop Evans was appointed pastor of St Patrick congregation. Previously he served as chancellor of the archdiocese. 
JAMES NEWMAN, Chicago, was unable to attend the reum'on because of a business trip to England. ED NUGENT, Loveland, Colo., needed a few daily-double wins at the Cloverland Greyhound Park, of which he is secretary-treasurer, to finance a return trip to the campus. During the week prior, his son was graduated from ND and his daughter was married to TERRY HANRATTY in Sacred Heart Church. BILL MULLIGAN, Cleveland, h:td a son's graduation conflicting with the 25th and could not make the reunion. He sent a World War II poster signed by classmates when they enlisted and left for service. It was on display at the hall registration desk. It brought back memories —both happy and sad. ED ALTENDORF, Milwaukee, was unable to be on hand due to a business conflict A year ago, Ed and his wife were involved in a neatly fatal head-on automobile accident not far from their home. He has recovered but his wife still suffers from the effects of the tragedy. 
ED DRINKARD, Alexandria, Va., was appointed marketing director of government programs for Mauchly Associates, a subsidiary of Scientific Resources Corp., Philadelphia. JOHN KUHN, Winnetka, III., senior vice-president of General Binding Corp., was elected vice-president of the International Trade Oub of Chicago. MIGUEL FACUSSE is president of the Honduras Industrial Assn. and also the Central American Industrial Assn. His company makes detergents and related products. 
Joseph A. Neufeld 
P.O. Box 853 
Green Bay, Wis. 54305 
'4S ON TO HAPPY BLVD. 
The mail is running extra-light these days, and all we can give is just \^iat we receive. JOE O'TOOLE has moved ftom Los Angeles back to Hollywood. Joe moved from Main Street to The Hapiiy Boulevard. Leave it to you, Joe! 
A letter from Vietnam tells us flut Rev. EDWARD J. DOUGHERTY is serv­ing with the 2nd Brigade, 9th Infantry Division as Catholic chaplain. His address is CH (Cpt) E. J. Dougherty, HHC 4/47, 9th Inf. Div., APO San Francisco 9637Z BILL STOLZE has been appointed head of the humanities department of the U. of Syracuse library. ANTHONY J. SUTY is presently assistant vice-president of the Peoples Federal Savings and Loan Co., East Chicago, Ind. 
A letter from JIM DRONEY tells us that his wife, Patricia, passed away May 8, after a short illness. Jim has two sons, Jim Jr. (17), who will enter Deerfield Academy in Massachusetts, and John (10). Jim is a partner in the Mt Lebanon Office Equipment Co., Pittsburgh, Pa., and lives at 309 Lakeview Dr., McMurray, Pa. With the sympathy of members of the Class of '48, a Mass is being offered on campus for Pat 
As you can see from all the exciting news, we do not have much to write about We can almost draw blanks for every issue and it is not hard to miss them. It is better to miss than send in one sentence about someone moving. Maybe we are not being read. If you want improvements, send in some news. Based on the unanimity of the last reunion, I got this job again, so I must be doing something right How about some help? 
George J. Keenan 
177 Rolling Hills Rd. Clifton, NJ. 07013 
'49 OPERATION NEWS BIT Now that the Apollo II spectacular has been com{deted, as evidenced by the bloodshot staring eyes throughout the Wesley household, I notice by my space timetable that "Operations News Bit" is still on the pad and Editor TOM SULLIVAN is counting ... . 
One of the most faithful of our cor­respondents has been L t Col. CHARLES WAGNER. He has radioed in again with the news that as of Sept 1 he will be retired from the USAF and become as­sistant accounting professor at Creighton U. By that time, Charh'e figures they will have figured out how much accrued vacation has been credited to his account His new and permanent address—204 Arenz Dr., BeUevue, Neb. 68005. 
A card came in from MIKE CONLEY, telling us that he and his wife, the former Betty Jean Mueller of San Antonio, Tex., ate living in Bristol, Tenn. They have four healthy youngsters, aged 11 to 16, and Mike is currenUy the educational officer at Jacobs Creek Civilian Conserva­tion Center in Bristol. 
Another card—earlier—^from BOB CIANCHETn out on Long Island, West Islip, N.Y., to be exact Said he crosses trails with JOE FAHEY and has run into several ND alumni at various social work functions. For example—BOB MURPHY 
•48 and JOE JUDGE "39. 
A note from JIM TYRRELL to tell us that he has moved from Memphis, Tenn., to Biadenton, Fla. Change in banking titles also. Whereas he was formeriy vice-president of the Firsl National Bank of Memphis, he now takes your money as executive vice-president of the First National Bank of Bradenton. Oddly enough, I had a personal confirmation of this when my in-laws, Mr. and Mrs. George Gilen, returned in May from their annual sojourn in Florida. They were pleased to tdl me of a delightfiil business visit they 

had with Jim, and passed along his greetings. 
Received word from BOB WARRICK on still anotber move for bis famQy (three prts, four boys). This time it's Charlotte, N.C., and this makes the 10th major move for the Warricks. I like the name of the street Here's the ofBcial new address: 3531 Johnny Cake Lane, Charlotte, N.C. 28211. Appreciated the card. Bob! 
A couple more notes. Bob Heck's buddy, PAT WEISHAPL, has changed locations butremains in Colorado. He has moved from Littleton, Colo., to Evergreen, Colo. 80439, and currently has P.O. Box No. 786. 
EDWARD W. SNYDER JR. has been elected president of Buickland-Van Wald, Inc., of Detroit. Another pre»dent is among us. We have received word that JOHN J. WALSH JR. has been elected village president (mayor) of Arlington Heights, III., for a four-year term. 
On a sad note, I would ask that in your charity youremember WILLIAM WARD on the loss of his wife, Mary, who died Aug. 29, 1%8. Bill recently notified the school of his loss. The Alumni Office also sent along a copy of a note informing us that A. J. Brockhoif, father of WILLIAM BROCKHOFF, died June, 1969. I'm certain that in each instance even a quick prayer will mean much to these fellow '49ets. 
The 1949 ND football team has planned areunion for the weekend of Oct 31, but the following men have failed to contact Leon J. Hart concerning their plans to attend: WILLIAM C. BARRETT, PAUL 
E. BURNS, JOSEPH A. CAPRARA, RICHARD A. COTTER, ROBERT J. KAPISH, WILLIAM L. McKILLIP, JAMES R. MAHONEY, JOHN E. MAZUR, CHESTER C. OSTROWSKI, EUGENE F. SMITH, MICHAEL P. SWISTOWICZ and ALFRED A. ZMUEW­SKI, alias Z. Alfred Adam. Two members of the '49 coaching staff, John F. Dmze and Walter J. Ziemba, are also re<piested to notify Leon. If anyone has any infor­mation about the following "mis^ng payers," please contact Leon: MARTY KIOUSIS, ANTHONY J. RADOS and JOHN D. ZANCHA. Leon's address is 900 W. Maple Rd., Troy, Mich. 48084. 
The man has continued to improve, but it never ceases to amaze iw ham qnicUr a handfiii of cards can «fi«Tr—T iolo one coimnn. I iriU need h ^ for Oe next issue—ydknr card or poipie or score card. Use anything. Bot send me a note! 
Leo L. Wesley 
ISS Driftnood Lane 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
'5» VLEASE-mX CNIT, SEND IN 
Throat the Altrnmi Senate we have been able to institnte a natkaid diiectoiy. 
So idease do not pot <tffilling oat the data 
and sending it in. WUk at the lUrd Annual Ahmmi Senate Meeting last May on campus, I was privileged to have contact with Rev. Chailes Sheedy CSC, a real woikbone of and for ND. Onr­class wasrepresented by RAY MARTIN, Seattle; BOB JLOLFE, West Bend, Wa.;FRANK KELLEY, on campus; and myadf. Bro. CCWIN looks as sharp and healthy as ever. CHUCK (VetviUe mayor and of Washington Hall fame) and Maiy PERRIN intndoced me to theirfine son anddan^ter, CHUCK '69 and Maiy,iriKHe Chuck and Maiy Ferrin albom is a worth-
This doctor's on the move 
A honeymoon in Guatemala that turned into a mass immunization program, a U.S. Air Force tour of duty in West Pakistan that resulted in a coronary disease study. For an ordinary person these are extra­ordinary happenings, but for Edward 
G. Toomey '55 M.D., they are everyday occurrences. A staff member at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass., Dr. Toomey is a man who makes every minute of his life count —for other people. 
Toomey's unusual story began in 1961 after his graduation from Georgetown Medical School and after completion of his internship and one year of residency. Holding the rank of captain in the USAF, Toomey was given permission to study natives living in the Himalaya Mountains. Because these natives are vege­tarians with a low-fat diet, Toomey decided to make a study concern­ing coronary diseases in relation to their diet. Also while in Pakistan, the physician found time to work at a mission hospital and orphanage on the Khyber Pass. 
In April of 1965, he exchanged marriage vows with a Providence girl and chose Guatemala as the sight of their honeymoon. But it wasn't the run-of-the-mill honeymoon. As usual for Toomey, though, he and his wife became interested in the natives of that area and opened a clinic to be staffed by visiting and vacationing doctors. 
The good doctor also has time to fit the role of'Santa Claus into his busy schedule. Christmas 1968 was 
Dr. Edward G. Toomey examines patient in southern West Virginia. 
a little brighter and the future will be brighter for Bolivar County, Miss., be­cause of a hospital staff meeting out of which grew the "Robert F. Keiinedy Living Memorial." In addition to a Christmas shipment of clothes and shoes to Bolivar County, Dr. Toomey and other physicians in Concord, Lincoln and Bedford, Mass., gave two-week service tours to provide vitally needed medical relief. 
The project, of which Toomey is director, did not stop with the clothing drive but grew into a nation­wide effort. This July through September, doctors from all over the country spent two weeks in the Mississippi community at their own expense. 
The Toomey tale doesn't end there. Along with Dr. Paul Dudley White, the international ambassador of medicine, he helped bring Dr. 
Christiaan Barnard to the John F. Kennedy Symposium, a precedent-shattering open-heart suigeiy sympo­siiun in Boston in May, 1969. In June, another symposium was held in Dublin, honoring both of the Kennedy brothers. Once again Toomey costarred with Dr. Barnard on the heart program which was covered by Telstar. 
All of ibis is extraordinary. But what isn't extraordinary abcMit the story is the honors aixl awards be­stowed upon Toomey. For example, he was honored by Boston's Junior Chamber of Conomerce for 1968 and 1969 as one of 10 outstanding yoimg men of greater Boston. 
If you need a good doctor, Toomey's probably the man to see, but don't go to him. You probably wouldn't be able to find him. He could be anywhere from Misassippi to Bia6a. 
while hit. Visited always wonderful Rev. 
JOHN CAVANAUGH CSC, now chaplain 
at SMC. Rev. JIM NORTON is in Miami. 
Visited the beautifully redecorated Lady 
Chapel where Mary Pat Feeley and I tied 
the knot in 1951. 
Rev. THEODORE HESBURGH CSC 
maintains his good balance of values and 
has all of us in his Mass intentions all 
the time. You should visit the new faculty 
dub (a Gore-donated University Club) 
next to the Continuing Education Center 
for a refreshment, and for those who have 
not toured the Convocation and Athletic 
Center, you are in for a real treat at our 
June, 1970, reunion. The students are 
really spoiled after having such plush 
surroundings. 
Had a fine visit with Prof. Ed Barrett 
in the ND Law School. Bro. RAPHAEL 
resigned as director of admissions in 
order to teach microbiology in Germany 
for a few years and is succeeded by Dr. 
Peter Grande, at ND since 1954. Fr. 
Hesburgh stressed that the biggest source of 
trouble is lack of communication and has 
done well, with fingers crossed, by keeping 
the channels of communication open 
among the four arms of the University— 
administration, faculty, students and 
alumni. This, of course, is a good prin­
ciple for us to follow in our family and 
business life also. 
Fr. Sheedy suggested that the coordina­tion between ND and SMC was a con­solidation and not a merger or absorpUon and suggested the clubs of the two integrate functions. I had the pleasure of being with Dr. Joe Evans who taught philosophic psychology to so many of us. He was the first recipient of the Rev. Charles Sheedy Award for excellence in teaching. He recommended Joseph F. Pieper's Leisure, the Basis oj Culture to me as excellenL 
Locally, my wife, Mary Pat, had just completed teaching at Marymount in the spring when an emergency at the Coral Gables High School enticed her into teaching the last month of five honors French courses. She has been recuperating all summer. I see DAN ROWLANDS occasionally and he is looking fine. Also hear from JACK. KELLY, vice-president of MONY. BILL ENSIGN is mayor of Toledo. GEORGE CORWINE is in Gaines­ville, Fla.; ED WALSH in Worthington, Ohio; BOB MILLSPAUGH, a lieutenant colonel. Air Force, at Holy Cross; FRANK CALLAHAN in Tampa, Fla.; MATT ROMANO, a commander in the Naval district in Boston; JOE FALLON in New Orleans; JACK DONNELLY in Dayton; ART JEHLE in Miami; PAT PLUNKETT in Lincolnshire, III.; Dr. TOM KLUG in Harlingen, Tex.; Rev. TOM NINNEMAN in Laramie, Wyo.; Dr. JACK FISCHER in Fort Lauderdale; DICK CULLEN in Victoria, Tex., practicing law; JOHN WHALEN in Northbrook, 111.; Dr. MIKE MEANEY in Corpus Christi, Tex. 
JIM WALSH, of Lord, Bissell and Brook, is doing well. Rev. JACOB SMITH CSC is retreat director at Fatima Retreat House at ND and welcomes all of our classmates to visit him. AUGIE GEN­TILUCCI is in Ottawa, 111., where he is with the DuPont Seneca—^works as assistant plant manager. 
DON HELLINGHAUSEN is in Midland, Tex., with his family of 10. He is president of the Cen-tex, Inc., oil well sup­idiers, and is being taken care of by his good wife. Marge (Fiehrer, SMC '53). 

He sees Dick Cullen fairly often and would Uke to know whether DICK McGOLD-RICH lost his writing pen. LL Col. FRANK B. HARRISON has arrived for duty at Langley AFB, Va. He is an operations staff ofiicer in a unit of the Tactical Air Command. He previously served at European Headquarters Com­mand, Vaihingen, Germany. 
John W. Thornton 
4400 Monserrate St. 
Coral Gables, Fla. 33146 
'51 HARVEY—THE NORTH 
WELCOMES YOU! 

HARVEY O'NEILL has come back north 
—if Indianapolis is in the Northland. 
Gulf sent Harvey back to develop a sales 
and marketing organization for their 

chemical department in the area east of the 
Mississippi. Harvey mentioned he has 
seen CHUCK PAULER, who lives in 
Stevensville, Mich., and he is doing well. 
Harvey also ran into ANDY WALSH at flie 
Atlanta airport recently. Andy reportedly 
is with G.E. in a sales capacity (capacity: 
VA quarts lager, one pint of 100 proof). 
BOB KLINGENBERGER is with die 
insurance firm of O'Rourke and Moroney 
in Fort Wayne. Anyone in the office 

at 3 p.m. on a Saturday afternoon—^as Bob 
was—^is really a hard worker. The 

Klingenbergers have three children, Jeny 
(13), Mary Beth (12) and Meg (9). With 
that kind of work schedule and three kids, 
I can understand why Bob was smiling 
when he loaned me the secretary's pen after 
three terms of faithful reporting. 

ART LINSLEY completed an assignment in 1968 as a UNESCO technical consult­ant in guidance and counseling to the government of Chile. He is now teaching at Our Lady of the Lake College (San Antonio, Tex.) in the department of counselor education to help meet the educational needs of bilingual and multicultural South Texas. 
CLIFF COLLINS writes that on Oct 15, 1969, he will arrive in Takhli, Thailand, to fly in F-IOS fighter aircraft over Southeast Asia as a member of the 355 Tac Fighter Wing. Meanwhile, he will be at Nellis AFB in Nevada for combat crew training. About five years ago, I met Cliff and his wife at the ND-Cal game, and we had dinner in San Francisco. Don't think I'll get to Thailand, but I hope Cliff is back by June of 1971. 
TOM CARTER, an assistant coach for five years, has been named head football coach of Mesa College. His first coaching position was with Elder Hi ^ School in Cincinnati. He later coached at Mater Dei High in Santa Ana, before moving in as head football coach at St Augustine in San Diego in 1955. He was at St Augustine until Mesa opened in 1964, and then moved over to Mesa as back­field coach. 
Jim Jennings Borg-Wamer Corp. 200 S. Michigan Ave. Chicago, III. 60604 

'52 TOO MODEST? So it's the height of vacation season. Still I have never seen the mail so thin. Some of you '52er5 are just too modest to let us know what's going on, so come <HI now, break down ^and let us in on some of your activities.' 
Received a nice call from JIM POWERS, who has moved to Weston, Conn., 
so be could be closer to the Polish hall 
in the oM home town of Oxbridge, Mass. 
Jim, who is an ace man with Parade 
magazine, is also owner/president of the 
Blohaids Oub of New York City. All its 
members gather at the local pub and 
unashamedly cry whenever the Red Sox 
lose a ballgame. Jim also is on good terms 
with the bartenders on the commuter 
trains into New York. He is in charge of 
reservations for incoming students and 
their parents for greater New York City. 
ED VASTA has been promoted to 
full professorship at ND. He's come a long 
way from his i^ayful days in Benton 
Harbor, Mich. Don't be surprised to see 
his name on the great American novel 
one of these days. 
JOHN E. POLLOCK has been trans­
ferred from the Chicago regional offices of 
the Babcock & Wilcox Co.'s power 
generation division to New York City. He 
joined B & W in June, 1952, as a student 
engineer and returned to the company 
in 1954 following a two-year military leave 
of absence. 
Chaplain BERNARD P. FOLEY is on 
duty at Don Muang Royal Thai AFB, 
Thailand. He is in a unit of the Pacific 
Air Forces. Take good care of those fly-
boys. Father; they're a rough bunch, 
but all heart 
WilUam B. King 
613 E. Donmoyer Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
'54 BOB'S IN LITTLE LEAGUE How quickly you forget The deadlines continue to come around, usually faster than the mail. Give me a hand, will ya, or youll read things like ROBERT F. BEAUDINE batted a cool .423 in LitUe League this season (No. 1 son). 
Tone and CHRIS MALONE have moved back to New Jersey from sunny, hippie California and can be reached by writing to Box 6, Middleton, NJ. ED WHITE works for IBM in White Plains, N.Y., and has recently moved to Honey Hollow Rd., Pound Ridge, N.Y. 
Good ole JOHN MALFA is teaching medicine at Ft Sam Houston. He's still in the reserve and recently was pro­moted to lieutenant colonel. Whatever happened to good ole HAL RILEY and good ole MATT KULUZ? 
TOM McHUGH, noted primarily for being overweight fumbling, rooming with an AU-American and never showing up at reunions, is associate director of athletics at Kenyon College, where he coaches and teaches physical education. JOHN CASEY is seeking re-election to the board of education of Grand Ridge School District in Grand Ridge, lU. RAY MORAN has been appointed assistant general agent in the Memphis, Tenn., life division of Aetna Life and Casualty Co. MARSHALL DESMOND received his law degree from the U. of Toledo in 1960 and is practicing law in Toledo. Marshall lives at 2464 Scottwood Ave., Toledo, Ohio 43620. 
News from BOB RAYMOND: After four years in merry old England, he's now in Belgium, still with U.Oi>. His address is 47 Avenue De I'Automne, Waterloo, Belgium. His office is in Brussels. Bob's wife, Joyce, had identical twin boys April 29. That makes five boys for the Raymonds. 
Well, that's about it from here. Marie, my four children and I are heading north for some camping and fishing and will visit Sheila and ED SEIM in Wausau, Wis., on the way. Shortly after we return, it'll be pigskin and reunion party time. Hope to see you theie, as usual, after the iiist home game of the season, in a new air-conditioned lab in the engineering building. 

Milton J. Beaudine 
21 Signal Hill Blvd. 
East St Louis, III. 62203 
'55 THREE '55EItS DIE 
Death reached out to claim three men of 
'55 in recent months. Rather than ask 
why, I think we should gain strength 
from the fortitude shown by TOM 
DORWIN, PAT WAGNER, BILL 
BURNETT and their families. 
Just four short days ago, I received a 
call from ART DORWIN, one of the 
greatest ND men you will ever meet, telling 
me that Tom had been in special care 
for two weeks fighting an infection that 
had penetrated the colon, liver and 
pancreas. He said that he didn't think 
Tom would make it Since our two 
families had been waterskiing just a month 
ago, the news was a real shock. Also, 
the news comes a little harder when it's 
your college roommate—a tough little 
Irishman from Wisconsin who had strug­
gled through freshman days in Zahm, 
enjoyed the good life on the second floor 
of Cavanaugfa, joined the elite on the fourth 
floor of Badin, and found his niche as a 
senior and captain of the fencing team. 
I jumped in the car and drove to 
Milwaukee to see him. Tom was still 
battling, but it was apparent this was one 
match that he would not win. And I 
think he knew it I received the news 
minutes ago—^just four days since my visit— 
that he had died. I know his widow, 
Carol, will provide the leadership that 
sons Pat and Mike (and the baby on the 
way) will need. But it won't be the same 
without "Old Humph." If you'd like to 
write Carol, her address is 2180 S. 87th, 
West AlUs, Wis. 
PAT WAGNER, who was one of our 
leaders in journalism by virtue of his prior 
service and Vetville residence, died May 
21, in Washington, of a heart attack. 
In a letter to ND, his widow, Marie, wrote: 
"Please pray for Patrick's soul. Also 
pray that I may be able to raise my five 
children properly." Friends of Pat and 
Marie may write her at 609 Princess St, 
Alexandria, Va. 
TIM SHEA, president of Federal Liaison, 
Inc., 831 S. Buchanan St, Arlington, Va., 
wrote to provide information about BILL 
BURNETT and his fight with cancer. 
Since 1964, Bill had been with the corps of 
engineers at Ft Belvoir as chief of the 
electronic surveying and en^neering 
branch. He also was deeply involved in 
civic activities, coaching Boys' Club teams 
in northern Virginia for 10 years. Iim 
continued: "It should be mentioned, also, 
that in his last months. Bill thought much 
about ND and his years there, and he 
and Pat had, in fact scheduled one last 
trip to ND for this June, but time ran 
out It is noteworthy as well, that in a time 
when self-pity, disenchantment and despair 
are all too commonplace. Bill bore his 
burden without a single complaint for two 
years and stoically refused to cave in or 
succumb to despair in any way, shape, 
manner or form." Bill's widow, Pat and . their three children live at 4S07 Weybum 
Dr., Annandale, Va. In memory of Bill, a 
group of his friends have established 
an educational savings accoimt at the 
Alexandria, Va., National Bank. Should 
anyone want to participate, mail your 
contribution directly to the bank marked 
"For Deposit to Account No. 3-38178." 
Memorial Masses for Tom, Pat and Bill 
have been offered at ND. Please keep 
them in your prayers. 
JIM CARROLL'S bride, Suzie, writes that he is a CJ>.A. and manager of the San Antonio office of Ernst & Ernst lliey have lived in Texas for the last 10 years. Two children, Mike and Molly, keep them on their toes. Jim, president of the San Antonio club, hopes to see many of you at the Tulane game in New Or­leans this fall. Their address is 3215 Woodcrest San Antonio. 
Don't forget the reunion after the Southern California game on Oct 18. It's in the Shamrock Room of the Morris Iim. Also, make plans now to attend our ISth reunion next June. 
Paul Fullmer 
1922 Larkdale Dr. 
Glenview, HI. 60025 
'55L A PROMINENT GRAD BOB HEPLER has managed to gain prominence in two careers since graduation. He is a well-known Goshen, Ind., attorney and also a Big Ten football ofiBcial. One of the original partners in the law firm of Hartzog, Barker and Hepler, Bob is a past president of the Goshen City Bar Assn. Currently he is serving as attorney for the Elkhart County Dept of Public Welfare and the County Plan Commission. 
Bob's ofliciating background began back in 1952 as a high school oflicial; in 19SS, he graduated to collegiate circles, being designated as an oflicial in the Indiana Collegiate Conference; in 1957, he became an official in the Mid-American Conference. In 1961, he was named to the Big Ten official staff. Seemingly, always being assigned to big games, his team of officials worked the ND-Michigan State game in 1966, which was a 10-10 tie game and called by many the "game of the century." 
Active in Masonic circles. Bob received his 33rd degree last year in Boston. In 1963, he was named Goshen's Outstanding Young Man of the Year, and in 1966 the Goshen DeMoIay Chapter named Bob "Indiana Dad of the Year." 
GEORGE LANG must be considered one of the most successful as well as one of the most umuual small-town practicing attorneys. Upon graduation, George and his family moved to Munfordville, Ky., where he opened up an individual law practice consisting primarily of personal injury work. George has the dual distinc­tion of obtaining the highest settlements in the history of his county for both a death case and a personal injury case. He served as city attorney from 1958 to 1962. At that time, he ran for public office and was elected Hart Coimty attorney, the first Catholic ever elected to public (^ e in this county. He was re-elected in 1966 and is currently serving out his present term. In the business field, George serves on the board of directors of four cor­porations and is co-owiver of a company involved in the recreational vehicle business, such as pick-up campers and mobile homes. His civic accomplishments include being executive secretary of the 
Munfoid ChanJber <tf Commetce, past 
president of die Central Kenhi ^ 
Wildlife Federation, vicfrficadent of Ike 
Junior Chantber of CMnmeice, past 
president of die lions Chdi and tiastte of 
the Rotaiy. In addition to all of the 
above, George finds time to manace a 
Little League baseball team. His maia 
interest when he is not nmninc the town ii 
big-game hunting and fishiiig in Canada 
and Mexico. He is presently preparing 
for an Afirican safui George and bb wife 
adopted a giil last August, and with hide 
she may become another AJmie Oakl^. 
TOM KELLEGHAN. his wife^ Baibara 
Joyce, and their fire children live in 
West Chicago. Tom is engaged in the 
private practice of law. From 1958 until 
1966, he was an instructiw at St Pro­
cophis college. At iwesent he is the 
deputy public defender for DoPage Coon^. 
in. Active in the DuPage County Bar 
Association in maiqr capacities, Tom is also 
the editor of its Bar Bulletin. We all 
remember Tom as the crusading editor 
of the Record newspaper in Sooth Bend 
during our Law School years. WeD, he 
hasn't lost the touch since gtaduatimi, 
having authored five articles iriiidi have 
appeared In various bar joamab 'around 
the country. Also, he is secretary to die 
committee on publications of the nirKn 
State Bar Assn. as well as a member 
of its editorial board. Congratulations, 
Tom, on your many credits as an author. 
DAN DAILY has been a member of the law firm of Hourigan, Kluger and Spohter in Wilkes-Barre, Pa, since shortly after his graduation, specializing in trial work consisting of general ne^igence and criminal cases. At the time of Dan's letter, he was trying a murder case. Dan serves on the board of directors of the Legal Aid Sode^ of Luzerne County and is a board member of the Visiting Nurses Assn. In 1964, he married Paula Heffeman of Kiiigston, Pa., and presently has two young children. He reports that ED MINARD makes an occasional visit to Wilkes-Bane. 
John P. Coyne 
810 National a ^ Bank Bldg. 
Cleveland, <Mo 44114 
'5C PAKrV SET FOK OCT. I t We are irieased to report comi^etion of arrangements for our class reunion post-game party. It is to be held at the Contimung Education Center after the Southern Cal game on Oct 18. We would like everyone to make a fecial effort to attend the par^ and, if accimipanied by nonalumni relatives or frieub, to invite them to attend also. 
Food and beverages will be served for a nominal sum. Please let us know if you plan to attend so we can insure excellent post-game service. Just drop a post card to DONALD CARLIN, 2709 Simpson St, Evanston, lit, indirating if you plan to attend aiid the number of persinis who irin accompany you. lime is diort, so send that post card now. ­
ERNEST T. MURATA was recenUy promoted to vice^resideot and cashier of die Hawaii National Bank. BERNARD CARDELLA is section manager of Retro­fit Contnds for Litton Systems, Inc. in Woodland Ifilb, CaliL 
PAUL BERRETnNI was elected president of Ae Associated Beer Distriba­tors of nioKris. Paul has served as vice-president from his distria and has been on 
the board of directors. JOHN ENGLER 
is now in New York City in charge of 
mutual fund programs for Midwest ofBces 




Finney's eye in the sky 
of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith. 
With another fooball season right around the corner, the sod will once again be flying, helmets clashing, bands blaring . . . and the roar of the fans won't be far behind. And neither will the TV cameras and Jim Feeney '58, the associate producer of the American Broadcasting Company's college football telecasts. 
The pace on the fields is pretty rugged and it's no less grinding for a football man in a shirt and tie. Feeney's job at the ABC studios is to coordinate the network's coverage and work with the various colleges to make the presentation as lively, interesting and smooth-running as possible. "We go out and do surveys at 14 or 15 locations each spring," Feeney says of his assignment, "setting cameras at the various stadiums, working with the sports information and athletic directors and helping the engineering people." 
Because ND has been a regular stop on the ABC football series, Feeney's trips back to South Bend are more frequent than the average Irish graduate's. But even though 

Jim Feeney in ABC telecast booth. 
business takes him to a vast number 
of college campuses, ND still holds 
the same aura that excited him as a 
high school student in Janesville, Wis. 
Although his birth certificate 

records Chicago as his home town, 
Feeney was actually-raised in Janes­
ville, a coinmunity of 30,000. His 
early interests in drama and music 
brought him to choose a communica­
tion arts major and, finally, the 
television industry as a vocation. 

In high school, Feeney was long 
and lean, which might have qualified 
him as a hurdler on the track team 
or perhaps a flankerback on the 
football team. "I was long and lean 
all right," he says, "and also easily 
broken in half." Although Feeney 
doesn't get into hard groundwork 
with the teams, his action on the side­
lines, in the press box and an)rwheFe 
else a TV camera might be found 
certainly ranks him as a top per­
former in the sports world. 
He started with ABC in the sales service department and then moved to the production area in studio services, where the primary respon­sibilities are the television game shows. In the fall of 1964, Feeney moved to the sports department, and he has been working in this capacity as an associate producer with varied responsibilities — primarily college football — ever since. Among his duties are the production of the pre­game shows, the regular football telecasts and individual installments of the popular Wide World of Sports series. 
It is no wonder that football has become his favorite sport, and Feeney sees the college game as a growing force in sports. Yet he also believes that a national play-off, similar to those in other collegiate sporting events, would add a more significant dimension to the football program. 
"I think a play-off is definitely needed if college football is to retain its appeal in a highly competitive market," Feeney commented. "I'd like to see it not from a broadcasting standpoint but from a fan's point of view. I think it would be healthy for the sport. Besides, what ND fan wouldn't want to see the team win a national championship under those circumstances?" 
If such a play-off system is devised, you can bet Feeney will be around for the first series of games — complete with ND button and camera. 
Eugene P. O'Connor 656 Ellicott Square Bldg. Buffalo, N.Y. 14203 
'57 REMEMBER OCT. 4 
Reniemt>er the Oct. 4 class reunion after 
the MSU game. DENNY TROESTER 
has agreed to call in JOHN BARANY 
and have it all set for us. An announce­
ment will be made at the game. 
CHUCK. GRACE sends a nice note from 
Columbus, Ind., where he is cracking 
the whip for Cummins Engine Co. Chuck 
reports that JOHN REARDON has moved 
to Columbus where he heads marketing 
services for Hamilton Cosco Co. John 
and wife, Ellen, have three children. 
It is noted that two other classmates are 
with Cummins—JIM WILSON runs a 
distributorship in Hibbing, Minn., and 
covers the U.P. of Michigan and northern 
Minnesota. JOHN DURBIN purchased 
his own Cummins distributorship in the 
Seattle area and together with his wife, 
Mailene, and four children lives in Seattle. 
We wish to express our prayers and 
deepest sympadiy to TOM DOYLE and his 
family on the death of his son. Chuck, 
in May. JOHN PETRUSKA has put out 
his dentist's shingle in Sturgis, Mich. 
W. K. THOMPSON is pfloting those friendly skies of United and proudly announces that he and wife, Nancy, have three children, two sons and one daughter. 
Where is PAT SWEENEY these days? 
JIM PURCELL is principal of Van Antwerp Medical School, Niskayuna, N.Y., and is the proud father of three sons. Jim received his M.S. in education in '62 from Siena College and now is pushing for a doctorate in educational administration at the State U. of N.Y, Albany. PAUL JOHNS has been named sales engineer in Chicago for Babcock & Wilcox Co.'s power generation division. I wonder if this has anything to do with Cub Power. 
The First National Bank of Chicago recently announced that JACK BRENNAN, vice^resident, is in charge of their mergers and acquisition division, where Jack will be working with customers and prospective customers in their merger activities. Jack received his M.B.A. at Indiana U. in '60. Ill have to ask Jack if he has a wealthy, ambitious customer who would be interested in merg­ing with a prospective not-so-wealthy customer like myself. 
We extend our condolences to BOB HOLLAND on learning that his father died in March. Congratulations to CLYDE BRENNAN, who recently was admitted as a member of the C f A . firm of Haskins & Sells. D. H. Overmyer Co. of New York, which just recently transferred LEN DiGIACOMO to Chicago, has now taken him away from us to New York where he is now vice-president, national sales manager, heading a nationwide sales campaign. Go get them, Len. PAT SHEERIN reports that he spent a great Kentuclgr Derby weekend with BOB ECK­LUND in Louisville. Bob is busy designing new buildings, etc. 
George W. Groble 111 W. Washington St III. 60602 

'5S SECRETARY TIES KNOT 
Once again we have a scant supply of news. 
Surely the explanation must be that 
you are all so busy making news that you 
haven't time to report any. How about 
dropping us a card? 
Your secretary is pleased to announce 
that he was married Aug. 13 to the 
former Gertrud Brillinger of Cincinnati, 
and that we are now residing at 1610 Fifth 
St, La Porte, Ind. 46350. As reported 
previously in this column, I am engaged 
in the practice of law with the firm of 
Roule & Raelson here in La Porte, as 1 
have been since 1961, with the exception 
of a 2Vi-year Air Force stint, which 
ended in 196S. 
Other news items: JOHN MURRAY is 
now residing and teaching in South Bend, 
after spending several years in Illinois. 
Lt Cmdr. RICHARD S. THOMAS recenUy 
was awarded a second Distinguished Flying 
Cross after completing 303 combat missions 
over Vietnam. He was elected secretary 
of the Red River Fighter Pilots Assn., 
known as the "Red River Rats." GENE 
PERRY is leaving his position as 
head football coach at Brooklyn Prep, 
Brooklyn, N.Y., to assume same position at 
Catholic Central High School, Bingham­
ton, N.Y., in coming season. 
GEP DURENBERGER: "My imports of 
antiques—18th-century furnishings and 
objets d'arts—are going well; expansion 
program well on its way. Still a bachelor, 
amen. Very involved locally and love it" 
JOHN A. BRES: Was married May 2 to 
Patricia Wiethoff. He moved to 940 
Jerome, Detroit, and is now assistant prin­
cipal of Gabriel Richard High School in 
Riverview, Mich. RONALD J. KROLICK 
is an accounting division supervisor for 
Allstate Insurance Co., Michigan, where he 
lives with wife, Suzanne T., and sons 
John C. (4) and Matthew R. (5 months). 
Hopes to see Michigan State game Oct 4. 
GENTARA MATSUMURA is enjoying research work at the Radiation Lab at ND since his return to the States from Japan with his wife and two daughters. SCHIELE A. BREWER M.D. is practicing ophthalmology in Oneida, N.Y. He has five children and the sixth is on the way. 
TIMOTHY J. MURTAUGH, vice-presi­dent for civic affairs for the Chicago Jaycees, is a partner in the law firm of Murtaugh, Nelson & Sweet in Chicago. 
A. W. FEES JR. M.D. married the former Susan Pavex of Miami, Fla., in 1964. He completed residency at St Vincent Hospital and Clinic, Erie, Pa., in the specialty of neurology in 1967. He is currently stationed at Chanute AFB, III. He has two daughters—^Kelly (3) and Elaine (19 mos.)—and plans to locate in Altoona, Pa. DAVID McSHANE, previously employed by IBM in Youngs­town, Ohio, as senior sales representative, has opened an Arbys Roast Beef Drive-In in Allentown, Pa. He opened his first Arbys in 1966, and IS months later opened his third in the Lehi^ Valley. 
Don't forget the class reunion in the Mahogany Room of the Morris Inn follow­ing the U.S.C. game Oct 18. 
Arthur L. Roule Jr. 
1610 Fifth St La Porte, Ind. 46350 
'59 ELECTED AND RE-ELECTED Rev. LARRY CALHOUN CSC has been elected chairman of the Illinois division of the Amateur Fencers League, re-elected treasurer of the Illinois High School 
Fencing Coaches Association, is director of 
the Illinois Junior Olympics and is on the 
faculty at Notre Dame Hi ^ Sdiool in 
Niles, III. Fellow classmate ED ROHR­
BACH is highlighted in this issue. Ed's 
office in Paris is 15, Rue de Marignan, 
Paris 8, and he has an apartment that 
overlooks Notre Dame Cathedral. If your 
local paper missed it, BOB WETOSKA 
has retired from the Bears and plans to be 
on campus for all five home games this 
fall. Bob will be guest lecturer on pro 
football, 1969, at the reunion after the 
Northwestern game. 
TOM CARROLL continues to advance 
with Procter and Gamble, now beads the 
toilet goods division in the Midwest and 
has moved his family back to Cincinnati. 
GREG DEVERS received his M,S. in 
physics from ND at summer cotnmence­
ment Greg was able to interrupt his IBM 
training program to complete the degree, 
which enabled him to spend the past few 
summers on campus. Wife, Carol (Feb. 15, 
1969), joined him in South Bend this 
summer; the Devers await No. 1 child. 
JOHN BELLAIRS is aUve and weU in 
Cambridge, Mass., with wife, PrisciUa, and 
in a month or two, their first child. 
The mystery of John's "whereabouts" was 
solved by this correspondent who met the 
Bellairs in the Harvard Yard on July 25. 
John joined the Merrimac College faculty 
this month. During our conversation, 
John and PrisciUa mentioned that one 
CHARLES BOWEN was last seen entering 
Harvard's Widener Library, researching 
Gaelic saints. 
EUGENE J. SLABY, married and two children, is now director of industrial engineering for the Naval Plant Represen­tative Office, Bendix missile systems division. BOB JEAN is with A. J. Jean & Son, Jewelers. He and Louise and children Kathy, Debbie and Diane reside at 615 Spruce St, Marquette, Mich. JIM KENNEDY has been promoted to Toledo (Ohio) branch manager of Burroughs Corp. His daughter, Karen Ann, was bom March 2. BRIAN CARROLL M.D. is practicing anesthesiology in Framingham, Mass. Brian and Lois have three sons. Anoflter CARROLL, Maj. DENNIS J., completed his second tour of Vietnam and returned to the States last month. 
Maj. NICHOLAS F. QUINTARELLI returned from Vietnam in May and will be assigned to intelligence duties in the 
L.A. area in December, after he completes his schooling at Ft Halabud, Baltimore. DENNIS LANDRY, medical sales representative for Eaton Laboratories, division of Norwich Pharmacal, left teach­ing in 1968 to join Eaton. JERRY BECHAMPS M.D. was recenUy honored for outstanding performance for surgery in the Mayo grad school of medicine. 
Joseph P. Mulligan Admissions Office Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
'60 BAH, HUMBUG, EDITOR! Without further ado, FRANCIS JOHN O'BRIEN JR. with full apologies. If upon rereading the previous 12 issues you find no mention of yourself, bah, humbug, editor! He and Mary Ellen had the stork call again, their second son. John is newly appointed manager of Sales Ed. Distributor, services department 
Short and sweet EMMETT MCCARTHY is a director of the Marquette National Bank, CUcaao, and a macbtt of itt com­
meicial bank and tnot inrcstnieot 
committees. He has also joined Oe staff 
of McKinsey ft 0>. Inc., intemational 
management convihams, as an ii««~-THf 
Cqit DICK SAW received die Air Votee 
medal for meiitorioiB senrioe as a scien­
tist at Marietta. OUo. He and Ailene aie 
now living at Purdue. FRANK HANSON 
was tbe 1969 rec^ient lA the Mobfl 
Incentive Fellomb^ Award. He wiO poisiie 
grad WDifc at Stanford. DICK GRAHAM 
was named sales representatiTe for residential 
Ught division of Tlioaias Ind. Inc, 
Louisville. 
Break, break: Oct 4, 1969—our informal 
reunion! Midiigan State, at the Morris Inn. 
OLD BUT . . . HARRY MENN. please 
update. DUANE OTTO HAAG recenred 
MS. from Bradley U. Maj. JAMES 
SULLIVAN, assistant professor of mifitaty 
science at tlie U. of Daytcai, received 
medal of merit, 1967 to 1968. TOM 
CAVANAUGH named etfibttial ait diiector 
of Media-Scope mafKone. He, Efizabeth 
and Tom Jr. live at 161 Odumbns Dr., 
Ctoster. NJ. JAMES ALLAN HI named 
assistant secretary hi tmst department 
at Continental lOiiiots Bank. 
P. F. SHEEDY, after Mayo residency, was appointed to diagnostic loentgenology. Has to serve USAF in Montsomeiy, Ala. He was a recent diplomat of the American Board of Radiology. STEVE DABROW­SKI stOl is in Mexico widi P&G as assodate ad manager. ED FE8RARA is back comirieting his second residency in internal medicine. As you iMd, he is on a fellowship in nephrdogy and chief residency. WILUAM GATTI finished 
N.Y.U. residency in otolaiyngology and is now at Great Lakes for two years. CHUCK EVCES made it to the flatlandsas asastant professor of mechamcal systems engineering at U. of Alabama. MIKE SULLIVAN (hello der) is an accounting supervisor with Allied CbemicaL 
Back home again in Indiana is HARRY HENNING, ".. . after five with USAF teaching Vietnamese to fly and a span as sales manager of a couple of divi­sions in tbe Coke company's Boston and Rhode Island plants. Finally managrd to get back to what I always wanted to do— law school at ND. Saw FURMAN SMITH, rising young attorney in Atlanta, and also ­RODY SCHIEB, in Chicago ad business. GALEN CAWLEY is flying for American out of Chicago." Moontime, down in Lunar Land, JIM POYNTON, Joyce and Mary Beth, Mike and Vicki Ann reside at 127 Riviere Rd., Cocoa Beach, Fla. He says he's helping Grumman prepare a lunar module to land a coiqile of lads on the moon. (SEC. The moon?! Hm|4i! Poynton's Folly!) 
Where are the CUBS? PEACE. 
Thomas J. O'Connell 3350 Everett Lake Forest, lU. 60045 
'61 HAD QUIIE A TIME I was in Holland, Mich., over tbe Fourth of July and spent the weekend widi -nM MONAHAN. He and his wife, Joan, are expecting their fifth diild. JERRY McNAMARA and his wife. Connie, were there also widi dieir ttree dau^teisand Aeir son. Jetiy is living in Champaign, VL, and working for an accounting firm. JOHN TULLY and his wife. Sue, came over tot die dqr while 
we were there and we had quite a time. Tim told me that he had been down to Sao Paulo, BrazU, to see CHRIS LUND, who is doing great I think Tim told me that Chris and Sue were expecting their fourth at that time. 
I got an announcement from JACK CASTIN, saying that the Castins now have a son named Christian. He was bom in June. I understand that PAUL FLEMMING is now married, and 1 was sorry I couldn't make it to New York for the wedding. 
HAROLD SLANE is now with J. K. Lasser & Co. as a CJ'.A. He married the former Joanne LeGrasse of Manhasset, N.Y., last December. Harold and Joanne are living in Bronxville and expecting their first child in September. I also heard that DAN LYONS was married last November to Judith Smith in New Jersey. They are living in White Meadow Lake, N.Y. 
MATT KELLEHER wrote and told me that he was married May 31 to Jean JoUiffe. Jean is a graduate of the U. of Wisconsin and they are living in Carmel, Calif., where Matt is teaching at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey. BILL BRODERICK and his wife, Kathleen, are back living in the Chicago area. Their daughter, Hatie, is now almost two, and Bill is working for Alexander Grant & Co., a C.P.A. firm, as a consultant. BOB BARRON returned from Vietnam last month and is in Baltimore as assistant 
P.M.S. at Loyola College. The Barrons now have a son, Robert Jr. 
MIKE GERGEN graduated from the 
U. of Florida Law School in 1964. He and his wife, Luann, are living in Lake City, Fla., where Mike is practicing law. TOM MEDLAND is a captain in the Air Force, teaching Air Force ROTC at ND. Rev. THOMAS GARDOCKE has been transferred from assistant pastor of St. John's Holy Angels parish in Newark, Del., to assistant pastor of St. Hedwig's parish, Wilmington, Del., a Polish inner-city parish where he says two Sunday Masses in Polish and preaches in Polish. SKIP GALIONE and his wife had their first child last November, William Paul. Skip is with the New York Telephone Co. and was promoted to supervising engineer in charge of computer services in the Brooklyn office. 
BILL HALL has moved from Kansas City, Mo., to St. Paul, Minn., with the Hilton chain. He is their resident manager in Minnesota. Bill and Pat had their third child, a boy named William. MIKE EDELMUTH is now in Oklahoma City, Okla., in the commercial roofing business, was married about two and a half years ago and has one son, William Francis. BILL NEAL is assistant professor of geology at Georgia Southern College. Bill and his wife. May, had their third daughter. Heather. 
I hope to see some of you this fall at the games. Best to you till then. 
Bill Hennegfaan 
30556 Scrivo Dr. 
Warren, Mich. 48092 
'tl NO SET GAME As I watched our astronauts land on the moon, my thoughts went back to 1962 and a very crowded room in Alumni Hall where JOHN POWERS and LES TRAVERS played host to about 30 guys as we watched John Glenn rise in space on the maiden voyage. I hope that the progress of each of us can somehow parallel the progress of our space program. 

Remember the policy of our cblss regarding class reunions after football games: no set game for our class—rather, just go to the Morris Inn immediately after the game. If the weather is good, look out on the putting green; if bad, go to one of the downstairs rooms. 
Spent a recent Saturday afternoon at BILL SCANLON's wedding. BiU married the former Terry Dwyer. In attendance at the wedding were BRIAN O'NEILL, JACK CLARK (now in D.C. working for the government) and BARRY MAKER. Barry and his new bride, Mary, came up from Montgomery, Ala., where he is employed with a labor law firm. You should hear Barry's southern accent Did anyone see JOHN DEARIE on NBC's "Password"? John was seen kissing Agnes Moorehead as the two of tbem combined to win $600. 
BRENDAN McCRANE is working in Washington, D.C, with the Worid Bank. EARL LINEHAN has been promoted to manager of manufacture planning and analysis of Baxter Laboratories. JAMES FREEMAN has been appointed as cost accountant, also with Baxter. Capt. JAMES NOWAK is attending the Air U.'s Squadron Officer School at Maxwell AFB, Ala. Capt DICK MEECE was awarded an Army Commendation Medal for meritorious service while in Bangkok, ThaUand. BRIAN KENNEDY has been made a partner in a Spokane, Wash., law firm. TOM ZLAKET is in Tucson as a partner in the law firm of Maud and Zlaket Tom and wife, Gloria, now have three children. FRAN GRAU is a CJ.A. now, living in Huntington Station, N.Y. The Graus have three girls. JOHN NEIDHART also has three children and works as a civil engineer in the Buffalo area. KEVIN CONNELLY is presently in Vietnam working for A.I.D. in the pacification and development program. 
Capt ROBERT J. KENNY recently received the Air Force Commendation Medal for outstanding du^ performance while serving as base information ofiicer at Koeba Air Base, Okinawa. Bob is now assistant professor of aerospace studies at St Michael College, Winooski, Vt DICK HODDER graduated from Cornell Medical School in '66 and is presently practicing in the Army on Okinawa. JOHN BEALL was a staff attorney for the Legal Aid Society of Roanoke Valley, Va. Since May I, 1968, John has been the general counsel for the OEO-funded operation. 
Heard recendy from DAVE BERTRAND, v/ho was appointed principal (along with TED MIDDENDORF) m the CfJi. firm of Haskins & Sells. Both ate woricing in New York City. JIM HIGGINS writes from Philadelphia, where he is finishing out his Navy tour after returning from Vietnam. Jim hopes to return to D.C. and practice law along with new bride, Ida. BOB O'LEARY is now working for Ethicon, Inc., in Sommerville, NJ., after completing his Ph.D. at the U. of Texas. 
H. James Krauser 8301 Garfield St Bethesda, Md. 20034 

'«2L OVER TANKARDS OF BEEK Over "several tankards of beer," JIM STUCKO, GEORGE McANDREWS, PETE KELLY and JOHN COSTELLO decided that it was high tnne for a "get­together." The Southern Cal weekend 
(Oct 18) has been selected. As of now, festivities will center around the Holiday Inn, 960 South 11th St, NQes, Mich. Plans include an informal cocktail par^ at the Hob'day Inn on Friday night and a dinner-dance at the Erskine Park Country Club in the Bend on Saturday evening. You have to secure your own tickets for the game. For further details, contact John Costello, 2500 Topsfield Rd., South Bend, 
Ind—TeL 219-284-2565 (business) or 219-291-0365 (home). Should be a good time. See you there. 
LARRY MANDYCK has moved. He is now residing at 4703 Ricbmar Court in Nashville, Tenn. 
Paul K. Rooney 
United States Courthouse Foley Square New York, N.Y. 10007 
'<3 BITS AND PIECES JOHN EDWARD MILES received his juris doctor degree from the U. of Colorado this June. ROBERT M. SMITH finished four years in the U.S. Air Force as a captain in December, 1968 (Minuteman Missile Maintenance Officer). He began work as an associate electrical engineer with Univac's data processing division in February, 1969, and is living with wife and two children—^Sean Robert (3) and Kimberly Ann (1)—^in Plymouth Meeting, Pa. Capt F. P. DICELLO will complete one-year tour as an Aimy judge advocate in Vietnam and will be assigned to Washington, D.C, in August 
In October, JOSEPH F. RADFORD JR. completed two years of service as a Peace Corps volunteer lawyer in the U.S. trust territory of the Pacific Islands. Before returning to the U.S., he spent a month and a half visiting the Philippines, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Japan. On the return from Honolulu to Washington, he stopped for a visit with BILL and Carol MORAN in Chicago. He is currently working as a contract negotiator in the contracts division of the Peace Corps, Washington, D.C. 
Army Capt THOMAS E. HARVEY has received the Army Commendation Medal while serving with the 173rd Airborne Brigade near Bien Hoa, Vietnam. He earned the award for meritorious service as executive officer of headquarters detach­ment of the brigade's 173rd Support Battalion. Dr. JOSEPH J. D'ONOFRIO finished his military obligation with the 
U.S. Public Health Service in July, 1969. Then he is heading back to the New York-New Jersey area to open a private dental practice. They had their second child, another boy, in May—^Andrew. 
PHILIP W. SKWIOT is a stockbroker at Eastman, Dillon Union Securities, Chicago office. Married in 1966 and has one son. Lt DEL SALAZAR is training in the F4-C Phantom II at Davis Monthan AFB, Ariz. His wife, Lynn, had a boy April 30. GREG FOUST and his wife, ShiriQT, just blessed with a son, Christopher Todd, May 27, now a family of four with daughter, Leslie Michelle (2Vi). Greg is manager of Firestone's Fleet, Com­mercial and Technical lire Testing, and resides in Akron. He plans on sedng most of the ND home football games. 
L t ROBERT T. DIGIALIA married the former Miss Teny Jane Romagosa of Savannah, Ga., Feb. I, in Savannah. 

Bob terminated military service as a lieutenant in the U.S. Army on July 7. He is an associate with the law firm of Lines, McLouth, Wilkens & Osbom in Rochester, N.Y. WILLIAM J. BENNETT is a contract representative with General Electric Ordnance Systems. His faiiiily consists of Kimberly (6), Christopher (4) and Kevin (1 month). 
Capt TOM WILLMENG is serving two years in the USAF as a doctor. Will be in Korea for 13 months, then in Northern California for 10 months. CHARLES M. HARTMAN was awarded an M.B.A. from U. of Chicago in March. Now living at 10 Brooktree Rd., Heightstown, NJ. 08S20, Chuck is assistant to the director for technical planning at Johnson & Johnson. 
C. G. TOPPING JR. was a Lt. (j.g.) USNR from November, 1963, to October, 1966. He earned an M.B.A. from Columbia 
U. in February, 1968. He is now employed by Gillette Safe^ Razor Co., Boston, Mass., in product management He married Elizabeth Jean Sachs of Dayton, Ohio, June 21, 1969. DAVID G. WINTER was married to Margaret D. Billings in New Haven, Conn., and they are now residing in Minneapolis, Minn. FRANK T. VITRO JR. has received his Phl>. from 
U. of Iowa and accepted a position as an assistant professor of child psychology at the U. of Maine, Orono, Maine, for the fall of 1969. 
Thomas B. Hotopp 
3121 Colonial Way, Apt B 
Chamblee, Ga. 30341 
'64 NORTON GOES TO VIETNAM 
Capt TOM NORTON was assigned to Vietnam where he will fly the A-37. PETER MURRAY has joined Southern Airways, Atlanta, as manager of economic research. He previously was with Eastern Airlines. JIM MASON and his wife welcomed their third child, Barbara Ann, in January. They are living in Jackson, Mich. 
JACK MUSKA is with Pratt & Whitney in Hartford, Conn. Jack received his M.S. from RP.I. He and his wife, Mary Ann, have three sons. PETER CLARK is with the U.S. Department of Agriculture in Berkeley. He received his Ph.D. from the U. of California in chemical engineering and is now doing research on food processing. NICK MEHL is living in Dallas and is with Dresser Industries. Capt DAN KULAK is now stationed in Vietnam. He received his law degree from Boston College, 
DICK VAN BOECKLIN is with Wells Fargo Bank in the international division. He received his M.B.A. from the U. of Chicago. DAVID BARLOW has accepted a position as assistant professor of psychiatry at U. of Mississippi. He received his Ph.D. from U. of Vermont LIONEL RODGERS received his J.D. from U. of California and LL.M. from Washington 
U. School of Law. He presently is a first lieutenant in the Army. He and his wife, Marilyn Lawrence, have one son. 
JAMES O'HARE: In June, he joined the international section of the First National Bank of Chicago, after receiving an 
M.B.A.
 from Washington U. in St Louis. PAUL D. SHUFF graduated from St Louis 

U.
 School of Medicine, May 30. He will be doing his internship at St Louis 

U.
 Group Hospitals. He was married to Maty Flynn Jmie 2, in St Loms. CARL DENNISON: Married the former Jane Patterson June 15, 1968, in New Orleans, 


(u,ytiti^V..j»!j|i<ji, 
€oii|{rats 
GERALD L. SPAETH '56 has been appointed vice-president of Bulk Tenninals Co. in Chicago and general manager of that firm's Lake Calumet facilities. He was formerly vice-president of operations, manager of operations and manager of marketing development 
RICHARD L. SINNOTT '58, vice-president in charge of marketing for Beverly Bank in Chicago, has been named a special assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Podesta. He will have charge of congressional relations and public affairs for the Economic Development Administration of the Department of Commerce. 
THOMAS J. GREENE '60 has been appointed as corporate attorney for Western Air Lines. Greene moves to Western from the San Mateo law firm of Hession, Robb, Creedon, Hamlin & Kelly. With his wife and two children, he lives in Santa Barbara, Calif. 
RICHARD S. JANICKI '62 has joined the Paul A. Fergus Co., a South Bend advertising agency, as executive vice-president. He will supervise total client services for the agency and will direct the company's new btisiness development. 
Capt. JOHN M. PESTKA '65 of Park Ridge, HI., has been decorated with the Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service in Vietnam by the 
U.S. Air Force. He distinguished himself as a supply inventory officer while assigned at Tan Son Nhut Air Base. He was cited for his outstand­ing duty performance under hazardous conditions. 
DAVID C. TIEMEIER '69 has won the 1969 Chemical and Engineering News Award of Merit He was one of 13 cited for "providing inspiration and encotuagement to all students interested in scientific and engineering careers." 
» 

La. Now completing internship with Charity Hospital, N.D. Will be in the public health service at the Indian Hospital, Rapid City, S.D., from July 1 to June 30 of 1971. 
THOMAS O. BENSON: Is legal counsel for the Denver Regional Council of Gov­ernments and living with his bride of 10 months, Mary, in Denver. Other '64 grads in Denver include TOM SULLIVAN, who just moved from Southern California with his wife, Carole, to accept a job with Martin Marietta Aviation. GREGORY COSTA III: Now ser\'ing as a second lieu­tenant in the Army Reserve in New Jersey and is general division manager of the Costa Cottage Co., a restaurant chain in New Jersey. JOHN COUNSELL has been hired as assistant baseball coach and has moved to South Bend from Orlando, Fla. 
ED NORTON has a son, Brian, bom Jan. 30, 1968. He is employed by Price Waterhouse in Rochester. Capt. JOHN H. PRECHEUR has arrived for duty at Iraklion Air Station in Crete. He had been in Korea. DAVID P. RIVOIRA has been promoted to district sales manager for the firm of Hamilton Cosco. His new position is in Chicago. JAMES D. WALSH was married Nov. 29, to Miss Zella Delahoussaye in Church Point, La. He is with the Walsh Company, Inc., Atlanta. 
JOHN F. SCOTT, 1229 Don Lane, Indianapolis, Ind., has been named super­visor in the claims department at the Indianapolis casualty and surety division office of Aetna Life & Casualty. DICK D'AMICO is with T.R.W. in Los Angeles. He is a financial analyst with the elec­tronics division. Previously he had been with American Cement PAUL CHARRON is "retiring" from the Navy after five years as a lieutenant In September, he will enroll at Harvard Business School. Capt T. P. OSBORN is stationed at F t Dix, New Jersey. DAVE NARDONE was married June 28 to Mary Ellen Dwyer of Mardela Springs, Md. "ITiey will be living for a year in Portland, Ore., and Dave will then enter the Navy. 
As far as your class secretary goes—I am with the Chase Manhattan Bank, New 
York, as second vice-president in the United States Dept In addition to my corporate banking responsibilities, I have been doing some M.B.A. recruiting for Chase at ND, Stanford U. and the 
U. of California. 
Clay Stephens 
206 Marian Ave. 
Fanwood, N.J. 07023 
'65 DOCTORS, LAWYERS, INDIAN CmEFS? 
CARL GIOMBETTI received his D.O. degree from the Philadelphia School of 
Osteopathy in June and is now serving an internship at Doctor's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. Ens. RAY BURKE is a legal assistance officer on the U.S.S. Lexington, home-ported at Pensacola. Since receiving his J.D. in June of '68 from Fordham Law School, Ray has spent a busy year attending O.C.S. and justice school, as well as being admitted to the New York Bar. 
KEVIN REGAN is working on an 
M.B.A. at Ohio State; JIM KELLY is in 



Syncopation i^ith an architectural tuist 
Gene Bertoncini '59 began his musical career as a 14-year-old ac­companist on a Sunday morning children's television show in New York. Before joining the Paul Winter Contemporary Consort, he was a featured guitarist with Skitch Henderson's Orchestra on the Johnny Carson "Tonight Show." That's coming a long way for a young man who graduated from ND with a degree in architecture. 
And the story doesn't end there. This year. Gene decided to try it alone, so he formed a trio, recorded his first album and embarked on a summer concert tour. 
The television studio intrigued Gene as a child and it was at NBC, while appearing on the Horn and Hardart Children's Hour, that the bug for the music-show business life took hold. 
For SIO a night and all the pizza he could eat. Gene took his first regular job at a small club in the Bronx, where he says he learned some of the rudiments of jazz playing. Although he had many such jobs, he felt they did not provide him with the "right" kind of surroundings for the total development he sought. Tlius, he enrolled at ND. 
His years at the University were marked with a duality which he still feels today. Music and architecture were both important to him, and a prophecy for the future occurred when for his thesis he chose to design a music department and fine arts center for ND. Gene played in both the marching and concert bands at ND and was the leader of the campus dance band. Although his group won no awards in an ND jazz festival, he did make an important contact and the group was booked to work that following summer in a Chicago jazz room, the Cloister Inn. This, accord­ing to the guitarist, marked his re­entry into the. music business. 
After graduation. Gene worked with an assortment of little groups and big bands, among them Les Elgart, Richard Maltby and Dan Terry. His most important jazz engagement during this time, he recalls, was at the then-famous Birdland with Buddy Rich. 
After a six-month stint with the 

U.S. Marines, Gene returned to New York and was immediately employed by NBC for the Merv Griffin afternoon television show; he was back in the studios which had fascinated him as a child. His musical career then began to grow by leaps and bounds, and he worked with such diverse people as Morgana King, Vic Damone, Ethel Ennis, Benny Good­man, Rod McKuen and Tony Bennett. Most recently, he had the unique opportunity of performing with the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra. 
Gene's own trio consists of a bass, drums and guitar. The trio's music, although basically jazz-oriented, includes classical works, folk pieces, Brazilian music and contemporary pop songs. 
His instruments and types of music 
The Gene Bertoncini Trio. 
may vary, but the young guitarist's purpose in performing is always the same: to communicate through music. He says of his work, "I feel there is a very basic way of communicating anything to people, as long as it is simply and honestly done and it expresses something they understand and appreciate deeply." In his per­forming he hopes to "impart some of the many faces of the guitar, to explore it as a source of many moods, as a spectrum of musical colors and, as Berlioz said, 'as a complete orchestra.'" 
And evidently, this architecture major-turned entertainer succeeds. A reviewer for the New York Daily Mirror said of Gene: "He is a sort of Segovia of jazz who makes his instrument sound like an entire or­chestra when he really gets swinging." 

his second year at Columbia Business School; and FRANK MAY is working for IBM in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. REX LARDNER is working as a copy and commercial production assistant on NBC's "Today Show." Rex's primary duties involve the rehearsing of all live com­mercials and editing the daily news and sports copy. 
JIM AFFELDT received his J.D. last year from the U. of Iowa Law School and, after a short tour of duty in the National Guard, has settled in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, with his wife, Ruth SMC '65, where he is with the Martin, Blackstock and AfTeldt law firm. 
Lt. TOM HILDNER graduated last year from the U. of Virginia Law School and subsequently was admitted to both the Virginia and New Jersey Bars. Tom attended M.P. school and now is a civil prosecutor with the military police in Okinawa. He welcomes all transients from Vietnam to visit TOM HECK, is at Yale completing his Ph.D. in music history, which has included a Fulbright grant to Vienna, where he researched early 19th­century Viennese classic guitar music. Tom was married in June of 1968 to Anne Goodrich (Vassar College). 
GERRY MILKIE and wife, Maura, returned last August after two years of Peace Corps service in the Mariana Islands. Gerry is working at Ford Motor Co. in Dearborn, Mich., and bought a house there—18012 Audetle St. Their first child, Shana, was born in November. LARRY O'CONNOR'S wife, Ann, recently gave birth to their second daughter, Leigh Elizabeth. Laro' is an assistant cashier in the national accounts division of Indiana National Bank in Indianapolis. 
CARSON SKAGGS received his M.D. in June from Cincinnati Medical School and is interning in sunny California. NICK SORDI is living and pracU'cing law in New York and vows to start another Italian district with the recent birth of their first baby girl. 1st Lt MICHAEL READ was married in March to Hope Sewell of New Orleans. Mike completed adjutant general officer school and is now a stalf officer in the office of the deputy chief of staff at the headquarters of the U.S.A. in Heidelberg. 
MICHAEL CONNIFF was presented with a son, Michael George, last May by wife, Diane. Mitch also has a daughter, Kellie Marie, and in January will receive his J.D. from Detroit College of Law. ART MIER has been promoted to die state president of the U-Haul Co. of Florida, located in Pompano Beach as of last March. BILL FERRENCE is working for Crown Nellerback Corp. in Park Ridge, 
111. Capt. BILL O'NEILL is in Osan, Korea, as a watch officer in the intelligence indications and warning center after being named the outstanding intelli­gence officer in Tactical Air Command last February. Bill's wife, Angele, and four children—Mary, Colleen, Bill and Jeannette —await his return next year. 
PHILIP ROTH was married in March to Carol Pavlik. Phil is a technician in the market analysis department of Merrill Lynch, Pieirce, Fenner & Smith. JIM MAHOOD is a service representative for Pan American after completing a Navy tour. 
James P. Hamisch 863 E. Granville Rd., Apt. B Columbus, Ohio 43224 '67 PAT DIXON KILLED 
As was necessary last time, again I must 
begin the column with sad news. We 
have lost another classmate. PAT DIXON 
was killed in Vietnam May 28. We 
would like to extend our sincere con­
dolences to his family. It is a great loss 
for all at ND. 
JACK DONAHUE was married to Mary 
Jo Riccolo SMC '68. Jack is presently 
with the I62nd assault helicopter co. in 
Vietnam and will be stationed there 
until Sept. 20. 
PAUL ROCHE was recently promoted 
to Lt. (j.g.) in the Coast Guard Reserve. 
Paul had been serving a 10-month tour of 
duty in Vietnam, which he will finish 
early this summer, but he returned to his 
home port of Honolulu in late July. 
I also received word from RANDY 
SUTLIFF. Randy was married to tlie 
former Ann McMahon SMC '68 on Jan, 25. 
BOB HODGSON and JAY GRAHAM '68 
were ushers at the wedding. Ann is now 
living in Norfolk until Randy finishes 
his tour of duty with the Coast Guard. They 
then plan to return to D.C. 
I recently received a card from JIM 
BARRY. Jim is now attending St. Louis 
Law School where he is serving on the 
law journal. He is also working with the 
brokerage firm of Dempsey-Tegeler 
& Co., Inc. 
In between all his activities, Jim also 
found time to get married. June 14, he was 
married to the former Eileen Kelly at ND. 
He expressed curiosity as to recent 
developments among the infamous "Dirty 
Thirty." If anyone has any information, 
please let us know. 
I also received a note from LOU lACOVO. Lou is in the process of shedding his civilian clothes, having recently been sworn into the Naval Reserve. He left for Newport at the end of the summer to begin his active duyt. During the summer, he continued working toward his Ph.D. at the U. of Wisconsin, which awarded him an M.S. in nuclear engineering last January. 
There has been a new addition to the Gillis family. FRANK GILLIS writes that Jan. 26, his wife gave birth to a son, Francis D. Gillis 111. Congratulations! BOB SCHEUBLE received his M.S. in electrical engineering from Berkeley in December. He is working with IBM at 
N.A.F.E.C. in Atlantic City as an associate programmer. 
ALLEN GODIN and Susan Elizabeth Cerre were married in Grosse Pointe, Mich., May 3. Al received his master's in finance from the U. of Detroit and is currently working toward his journeyman's card in the tool and die business in Detroit. 
TONY BERARDI was married to the former Patricia Halasi at ND May 24. Tony had been studying clinical psychology at Ohio U. but was then drafted. He is pres­ently a second lieutenant in the Army, having received his commission May 16 from engineering Officer Candidate School. 
DICKWIELAND recently dropped us a note. Dick just passed his comps and is continuing his work at Yale in physics. He writes diat KEVIN KELLY and STEVE STORCH are both in Ghana teaching in the Peace Corps. He also says that RICH NOLL, who is now teaching high school in East Haven, Conn., will be attending Yale Divinity School in the fall. John J. Hughes 99 W. 37th St. Bayonne, N.J. 07002 
'67L HE'S RIGHT—KOE, ROE YOUR BOAT 
A fascinating tale from Maiy Jo and KIP 
ROE. For the Fourth of July weekend 
they traveled to Papa Roe's for a family 
reunion in Vermillion, Ohio. You may 
recall that that was the area hit by severe 
rainstorms and floods. After the entire 
family spent a harrowing 17 hours 
on the second floor of the house, they were 
rescued by—^you guessed it—a rowboat. 
(The editor will probably put something 
dumb like "Roe, Roe Your Boat" at 
the top of this column.) It caused more 
that annoyance for Kip, since their car 
was demolished and washed out to 
the beach. 
Happier news from the Roes is that 
Mary Jo is expecting their fourth baby 
in early November. They celebrated their 
fifth anniversary in August If that's a 
challenge. Kip, the Heinholds have no 
intention of picking it up. 
It's a boy for the LAZARUSes! Bom 
May 21, and christened John Fleming, 
he joins 2-year-oId Mag^e Ann in keeping 
Marilyn and Ken busy. Laz transferred 
from the criminal division at the justice 
department to the general litigation 
section of the tax division. Before the 
transfer he argued a case before a panel in 
the U.S. Court of Appeals that included 
the now Chief Justice Burger. 
Speaking of Chief Justice Burger, JOHN 
HARGROVE tells me that PAUL 
MEYER may continue clerking in D.C. 
under the new chief justice, rather than 
moving to Arizona as previously reported. 
Why not let us know, Paul, when your 
plans have firmed? SEAN "003.5" 
KEENAN is still widi the Naval Security 
Station "somewhere in the District of 
Columbia." Very hush-hush—at least that's 
what he'd have you believe. 
Maureen and DAVE FRANCESCANI 
have apparently left D.C. for the environs 
of New York. Dave will work for a 
patent firm. JERRY BERTHOLD 
is recently back from Vietnam and we hope 
to hear from him soon. In the same 
breath we must report that DICK 
MUENCH was recently transferred to 
Da Nang. Carol is back in South Bend, and 
I wish she would get me Dick's address 
for publication. I'm sure he would like 
to hear from you. 
The HARGROVEs are still in San Diego but were planning a short swing through the Midwest in August. John made the wedding of JOHN "I-CAN-IMITATE­ANYONE" PUSEY '68L on Aug. 2. He will also attend the prosecutors' course given at Northwestern Law School for a week. While in school he will stay with TOM McDONOUGH (John always was one to mooch). When in Chicago, Tom has promised a reunion with HARTY, SINNARS, CULM, SENG and LARRY FLEMING. On the way back to California, John, Janie and Li'l Dave will visit (mooch) the SULLIVANS. Pam and Tom and their two boys are still in Jackson, Mich. 
I am preparing a card file on all members of our class, listing address, em­ployment, family and so forth. But at this stage of our careers, all of these elements are in constant flux. Please help. Moved? A new addition? Getting married? Let me know. If you want some information on the whereabouts and doings of a fellow grad, perhaps I can help. 
Because of the delay between my deadh'ne and the pubh'cation of the ALUMNUS, you may feel disappointed that news you've sent me is not in the next issue. E.g., news received on July 29 will not be published until Oct 27; Sept. 16 news will reach you in the De­cember issue. So bear with me and my editors, or at least with me (I'm not crazy about them). 
James C. Heinhold 
34 Wall St. 
P.O. Box 126 
Norwalk, Conn. 06852 
'68 A REMINDER Just to remind you •68ers that it will take six days for mail to reach me and six days to get back to you. 
Pvt. L. Pellecchia 
E148-36-8584 
1st Div. Inf. 
BTRY A 8th BN 6th ARTY 
APO San Francisco 96345 
•68L LET ME EXPLAIN . . . In case some of you are wondering why the news you send doesn't get published until much later, let me explain that the ALUMNUS deadlines are set way ahead of the date of publication. So, though it may take a while, everything I get will find its way into the column. Please keep those letters coming. 
Congratulations are due to NORM and Jean SMITH on two counts. On Feb. 26 they welcomed another son, Matthew-Ross, the best baby so far, according to Norm. His light brown hair favors Jean. And with Tracy and Todd "really getting big," the Smiths have bought a new four-bedroom house in the country, close to the woods, water and open fields. Norm is really enjoying the practice of law in Sidney, Ohio, doing everything except patent, admiralty and labor. He's specializing in lax problems and planning. 
AL and Andi BARNARD rate congrat­ulations for the same two reasons. On May 27, Aaron John weighed in at 8 lbs., 14 oz. And in the beginning of July, the whole family moved into a new home. Al has spent the last year with a medium-sized firm in Minneapolis, dividing his time about evenly between corporate and estate matters and litigation matters. 
BOB BELLUOMINI is now at Naval Justice School, having left Quantico far behind. On completion of justice school, he will take a few days' leave and then head for Vietnam. I just hope the rest of the troops are ready for him. This is no ordinary marine. Bob reports that ERNIE ABATE was in the company behind him at Quantico and that Ernie will be heading for jusu'ce school in September. 
Speaking of Vietnam—after a nine-month tour as manpower control oflicer at an Army hospital in South Carolina, FRANK SMITH heads over there this month. What a loss for those Carolina nurses. I can hear their sighs from here. He, Bob and BOB WILCZEK will be able to have their own reunion. That is, if Bob W. is up to it. Molly writes that he was in the hospital for a while in July with some exotic bug he picked up over there. Apparently he is fine now, but Molly had a bit of a scare. 
This country's newest weapon, MIKE WILLIAMSON, soon heads for Korea. Capt ANDY TRANOVICH is stationed at Edgewood Arsenal, Md. 
On May 12, TOM CURTIN was 

admitted to the New Jersey Bar and 
promptly admitted himself to another bar to 
celebrate. Playing football for the 
Tortfeasors finally paid off. Tom failed his 
Army physical and is now classified 1-Y 
because of his old trick knee. 1-Y means he 
goes after the Girl Scouts get called. 
Tom writes that he, DICK MANNING, 
RICH HENNESSY and JOHN HAR­
GROVE were to be in John Pusey's wedding 
party in August (I am writing this as 
the astronauts sit on the moon.) Tom heard 
from the "Chief recently; he sent 
him 10 ND schedules. 
Everything's GREAT. We're all GREAT. 
Dennis C. Thelen 
7816 Lisa Dr. 
Apt. 202 
Norfolk, Va. 23518 
'69 OLD GANG BREAKS UP 
I haven't received too much information to date, except for a little word of mouth here and there. Last night I heard from VINCENT "CHEESE" KRAFT, who at the moment is serving two weeks' summer camp for the Army National Guard. Also in the service are MICHAEL "STICK" CERRE at Officers' Basic School, Quantico, Va., and EDDIE WEINLEIN, who is serving with the Navy JAG corps in San Diego. 
RICHARD MUNSON is still living in South Bend while he finishes work on his teaching credentials. BERNIE MacDON-ALD also expects to be living in South Bend for a while. He and his recent bride will both be teaching in the public school system there. 
Speaking of brides, I understand that old gang of ours is breaking up. A few of those now sharing in the happiness of marital bliss are TERRENCE "RAT" HANRATTY, JOHN "PIG" QUINN, PAUL KELLY, JIM SEYMOUR, JOHN 
R. DONAHUE JR., TOM BOYLE, RICK ELLINGHAUS. TIM "SPEED" MESKILL. 
Incidentally, Rick Eliinghaus along with JOHN "LUNCHY" LYNCH and JOHN "PSYCH" LONG will be attending Georgetown Medical School in the fall. RENE TORRADO is busy working on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. 
MIKE JOYCE is in North Carolina, working with the National Health Service. 1 saw COLEY O'BRIEN and FRANK CRINITI in a local gin mill the other night and Coley says he'll be back at ND for law school this fall. A few other people will be in law school this fall. Among them are TOM BREEN, who will attend Loyola in Chicago; TONY MacCLOUD will be at Cornell; ART DOBSON will be at U. of Denver; LOU EMERSON will be at U. of Houston; BILL ANDERSON will be at the 
U. of San Francisco. 
Rumor has it that WILLIAM "SNAKE" CELLA was in West Palm Beach to see that certain someone from "across the road." MIKE "Q" DAVIS was in town the other day and is on his way to five months' active duty for the Army reserves at Ft. Knox, Ky. CHARLIE "HOSEMAN" BEAUREGARD was an­other one who took the big step to married life. PAUL "DRY" JOHNSON will be attending the U. of Connecticut to work on a master's in business. FRITZ GAST is taking care of the PACKER in Grand Rapids. 
Well, that's about all the info I have at the moment, but next month I plan to attend the nuptial vows of PAUL McCANN and Michael McKeon at ND and should see a lot of the class there. 
Bob Rogers 
6219 Kennedy Dr. 
Chevy Chase, Md. 20015 
'69L '69ERS AND BARS 
At the time I mail this column in for 
publication, a good share of our fellow 
classmates arc on the eve of the Illinois Bar 
Exam. MATT DWYER wrote to say 
that he was spending Monday through 
Thursday of each week at the Chicago "Y" 
and taking the bar review course with 
GEORGE BURGETT, TONY SIEMER, 
"STAR" STARSHAK, TIM MALLOY, 
"BUCK" RIORDEN, TOM DOWLING 
and MIKE LANNON. Matt also sees qm'te 
a bit of AL REED, who is spending the 
summer as a lifeguard at the "Rock" 
and studying for the Ohio Bar. 
"Star," meanwhile, has written to say that the olTicial date of his marriage to Sue Smith will be Oct. 25. He has spent the summer taking various IRS tax courses in addition to studying for the bar. He informs me that MERLE WILBERDING, REGIS TRENDA and Tom Dowling all passed the Iowa Bar in June. 
Several classmates have dropped me cards to keep me posted of their whereabouts. Mary Ann and DOUG AUSTIN are living in Lansing, Mich., where Doug works for Fraser, Trevilcock, Davis & Foster. JOHN STOLTZFUS and his wife are living in Minneapolis, while BILL HASSING and family have settled in SL Paul. 
DAN HEBERT and his wife have moved to Glenview, 111., and announce the arrival of their firstborn, Peter John Hebert Dan is working for Seyfarth, Shaw, Fairweather & Glenaldson in Chicago. 

Kris and LANCE RIEMERSMA are living in Los Angeles and seem to be de­lighted with life in California. Karen and DAVE LARIMER are presently in Alexandria, Va., where Dave is studying for the New York Bar. Mary Ann and FRANK MURRAY dropped a line to say they are now in Philadelphia, Pa. Sandy and "PUMA" McLAUGHLIN, meanwhile, have established their domicile in Bronx, N.Y., contrary to what we all expected. 
MIKE DODGE has been studying for the Michigan Bar at his home in Royal Oak, Mich. BOB GREEN wrote to say that he is spending the summer preparing for the New York Bar Exam and that he then plans to spend another year hitting the books—this time at N.Y.U.— for his LL.M. in urban law. 
Pat and JIM ZAK have decided to remain in South Bend for another year and Jim will clerk for Judge Grant. Jim spent the week of July 21 with me in Denver taking the Colorado Bar Exam, and next year he plans to move out to God's country. 
I'm still anxiously awaiting word from most of you. At the very least, why not just drop me your addresses? I hope you all realize that your delay hinders my attempts to compile a class directory, and consequently lowers the price I can get for it from various mail order smut publishers. 
Scot Atwell 2475 S. York, No. 101 Denver, Colo. 80210 
CLUBS 
The Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati recently elected officers for the coming year. Above, Larry Kyte (center), outgoing president, congratulates John Lynch, who will 
head the club during '69-70. The other officers are: Mike Cottingham, secretary; and (far right) Richard 
Clubs plan for fall 
(l-r) Robert Hofacre, treasurer; Castellini, vice-president. 

BOSTON 
The club has made its tentative schedule for the major events of the 1969-70 season. We hope that all members will make plans to try and attend at least some of the affairs. NEIL FOWLER '47 is well along with his plans for the freshman send-oft dinner in September, the Suffolk Downs night will be held in October and the Communion breakfast will be in December. We are also looking forward to the debut of the hockey team in Boston in December, and a reception is planned for the team on that occasion. The annual meet­ing will be in February, UND Night will be in April and the annual golf outing will close out the year next June. 
Congratulations to John Gillis '72 and Val Madden '73, the two recipients of $500 scholarships awarded by the club. 
We are looking forward to a winning season for the Boston Patriots through the efforts of JOHN MAZUR '52 and JOHN MYER '65, our new coaches, as well as to some fine offensive accomph'shments by 
BOB GLADIEUX '69. 
Mike O'Toole '55 
BUFFALO 
Our golf outing happened Aug. 1, instead of the July 25 date as I reported to you last month and the Aug. 8 date that we 
originally planned. Conflicting football dates caused the change. No matter—^we had 18 swingers. Low gross won by my guest George Steigauff. Low net by yours truly—67. 
Must praise the All Stars for the nearly impossible job of coming within two points of the New York Jets. Our Buffalo Bills took it on the chin in their first exhibition game—Houston Oilers. Better football to come this fall. 
Have more to tell next time. 
John A. Allen '56 
CHICAGO 
The club's annual golf outing was at the Elmhurst Country Club on Aug. 4, 1969. BILL CAVANAGH '54 and BOB LEE '53, cochairmen, presented the following golf prizes: Perseverance Award (score vrithheld) — JERRY HILLSMAN '55; Long Drive — Mr. Viranek; Low Net 
— BILL BARRY, score 61; Low Gross (nonalumnus) — Ara Parseghian, score 76; Third Low Gross — TERRY DILLON '32, score 79; Second Low Gross—J. PIV­NICKA '57, score 77; Low Gross— MARTY McGlNN '59, score 76. 
President KEN SCHUSTER '49 inUo­duced Ara Parseghian, who briefly outlined the prospects for the 1969 football season. Coach Parseghian stated that he and his staff will have a rebuilding job to do offensively, but the defense should be very experienced. He then introduced GEORGE KELLY, who will handle linebackers and be responsible for recruiting in the Chicago area. George expressed his pleasure to be coaching with Ara Parseghian and his gratitude for the opportunity to be back at ND. 
Thomas F. Carey '55 
CLEVELAND 
You probably have heard that JOHN P. 
MURPHY '12 recently passed away. Great 
sorrow was felt, I'm sure, both up at school 
and around the Cleveland area for this 
beloved man who combined a most 
successful professional career as a long-
practicing attorney, chairman of the board 
in the Higbee Co. and unselfish humanitarian 
and civic leader, with always a profound 
dedication to ND. About 50 of us mourned . in unison at Brown-Forward Funeral home 
by saying the rosary. We will miss him, 
as I'm sure ND will. 
On July 20, we had our annual family 
picnic at Gilmour Academy. About 250 
of us commenced the activities with a 
guitar Mass starting at noon. It rained 
all night and morning, with tornado warn­
ings injected into the picture also. It didn't 
deter the stalwart band of famiUes that 
showed up, however. We had to cancel the 
big Softball game that annually closes the 
generation gap and revert to a grueling con­
test of underwater polo, with JACK COYNE 
'55 and family scoring most of the goals. 
All the other games were equally heated, 
and the trophies were monopolized by the 
family of NICK DEVITO '63, whose kids, 
cousins, in-laws and relatives left the rest 
of us at the post. 
Congratulations to Chairman JAMES 
McNAMEE '63 and our presidenette, Mrs. 
Peg Com'gan, who put the whole program 
together. 
On July 24, President TOM CORRIGAN 
'57 held his first board of governors' meet­
ing at his home in Westlake, Ohio. Various 
proposals were brought up, such as merging 
our club with the Little Sisters of the Poor, 
a Monte Carlo night on an abandoned 
river boat and a money-raising touch 
football game between the alumnae of St. 
Mary's, Notre Dame, and their sister 
namesake in Terre Haute. 
Patrick J. Cannon '55 
CONNECTICtlT VALLEY 
A long-promised newsletter has been mailed to all members who have indicated an interest in the organization. It is a short review of the year's activity. Two notes: The treasury is in the black and there are 
88 dues-paying members (34% of our 
alumni). One significant conclusion: Apathy 
to the club's program is still running 
rampant ND alumni are a tough bunch to 
get fired up, except when it comes time for 
football tickets. 
Active members have been sent a 
questionnaire. All who have received the 
form are requested to complete it and 
return it to us so that the records can be 
put into order. 
BILL MCCAFFREY '59, the chairman 
of the Events Committee for the coming 
season, is bristling with ideas and en­
thusiasm. Help is always appreciated. Won't 
you volunteer? More information about the 
calendar will be forthcoming. Support your 
local alumni association. 
John McGuire '62 
DALLAS 
Sandy Lake was the scene of the club's 
armual summer picnic on July 19. Chairman 
of the event, JIM JUST '59, was ably 
assisted by ED ZILLIKEN '57, JAY 
JONES '59, CHICK MARTIN '59, LARRY 
BEDFORD '57 and Toppo the clown. 
FRED EICHORN '44 was recently 
elected to the club's board of directors. 
Our appreciation and warmest regards go to Rev. MILAM JOSEPH '59, our chaplain who was reassigned to a new position in Tyler, Tex. Our new chaplain, Rev. Arthur Hughes, is an old friend of the University and the club and we welcome him in his official role as our padre. 
Paul Underkofler '58 
KENTUCKY Our annual outing was held this year at the Midland Golf Club, Aug. 5. We wish to thank all our members and espe­ciaUy LEO REHRMAN and BILL REISERT III for making this outing a huge success. A lot of new faces were seen at the outing as we welcomed back PAUL SHARON and DAVE HART from their tours with Uncle Sam. Another of our members, PAT DUFFY, is expected back from Vietnam in early October. As the siunmer draws to a close we also want to thank RUSS RAQUE for his work on the orphans' picnic and GERRY BOLAND for the freshman send-off party, both of which were very successful. 
Mike Casper '64 
MICHIGAN CITY 
UND Ni^t was held late in May by the Michigan Ci^ area alumni. Dr. JOE BERGAN, chairman of the program, introduced the honored guest, Edward "Moose" Krause. Moose entertained the large group with his keen wit and informed the members of current campus events. BILL "ZIP" ZEHNPFENNIG, past local member, made the trip from Cleveland to attend this function. WALLY TIMM ate his dessert against Dr. Kubik's advice. 
The "Man of the Year" award was presented to BOB MILLER '57 for his work with the local club and the youth of the commuiuty. President DOMINIC MOFFO welcomed several prospective students who were the club's guests. He also outlined the activities for the year, including the upcoming Irish Greens to be held at the Long Beach Country Club on July 31. 
Congratulations to BOB McBRlDE, a member of the board of directors of the 
local club, for his selection as the new 
national president of the Monogram Club. 
Don Wentland '51 
MUSKEGON 
TYLER "Stan the Man" did it again—for 
the 10th time. He's the president of our 
local club and this was our 10th annual 
golf stag held at the Pontaluna Onmtiy 
Club Links (no pun intended, but I can't 
help getting into the act when the Uni­
versity sends its fine representatives to our 
fair city each summer to make our annual 
golf outing the huge success it always is 
and was again this year). 
The good Lord helped a lot, too, and provided lu with a warm imrained-upon day that saw up to 150 golfers (NDeis and friends of ND—^State men, too) meandering their several ways in, about and aroimd the lush green fairways and greens as they quaffed the amber fluid (courtesy of Stan, of course), pumped from a pleasant iMt stop parkeid along the troubled way. 
In the evening, MORSE (Jim) took over, not the charcoal broiled steak and com but the introduction of the wonderful guests from the University—the coaches and Revs. Durbin and Fay. 'They represented the University well, both on the course and in the way they presented themselves throughout the evening. It made one happy and proud to be an ND man. 
Leo L. Linck '43 
NEW ORLEANS The New Orleans Club sponsored an evening diimer at the Southern Yacht Club on July 10. Among those attending were JIM CARRIERE '62, REMY FRANSEN 
'58, PAUL HURLEY '56, Dr. JERRY 
RYAN '56 and their wives. Everyone enjoyed the evening. 
Local alumni meet for a monthly luncheon on the first Wednesday of each month at Kolb's German Restaurant, 125 St Charles Ave., at 12 noon. Alunmi who happen to be in the New Orleans area on any first Wednesday are welcome. There is no need for advance notice. 
We are looking forward to welcoming alumni from around the country to New Orleans for the Oct 25 football game between ND and Tulane. The club has planned a party for the Friday night before the game, in the downtown area. 
Joe Drolla Jr. '63 
PHULADELPHIA 
A cookout and beer blast was held in July at BART JOHNSON'S estate, with the intent of introducing the undergrads to the Philadelphia Club. It was an enjoyable evening, and to Bart Johnson's surprise, his home was left intact 
The remainder of the club's attention has been devoted this summer to the prepara­tion of details for the Tulane, New York (Army) and Pittsburg trips. From early indications, the turnout should be large. 
For information on all above trips, contact JACK HENRY at 215-MI-2-1161. 
Ray E. Mullen '60 
ROME 
Dr. GORDON DI RENZO '57 leaves us after a year as Fulbri^t professor of sociology at the U. of Rome. 
Summer guests gracing our lounge 
include: Bro. RAYMOND DUFRESNE 
CSC '49 with a group of students from 
Holy Cross High, River Grove, 111.; grand­
sons, with grandmother, of RALPH 
CORYN '22 and HENRY WURZER '24 
and father BOB CORYN '52 — boys signed 
as of 77 and 78; Mayor Healey of 
Kearney, NJ., brother of Bro. JEROME 
HEALEY CSC; JOHN GUNTHER, execu­
tive director of U.S. Conference of Mayors, 
and wife; Mayor and Mrs. Joseph Barr 
of Pittsburgh—Mrs. Barr is the daughter of 
Mrs. White, a major donor to the ND 
library, and a sister of three ND brothers. 
Also visiting were the parents of Michael 70 and ERIC SAVILLE '67; the dau^ter and sister of the CHUCK PERRINS '36, '69; Dr. SALVATORE FERRARI '34; JOSEPH ABBOTT '29; WALTER HILL '62; DAVE CAPPEL-LEr n '66; EMMETTE CASEY '59; JOHN KEARNS '29; DAN GALASSO '64; LEONARD CALL '20 and wife; JIM '63 and JACK KOLTES '64; Sr. MIRIAM PATRICK COONEY and MARIA CON­CEPTA McDERMOTT CSC, SMC; DAVE FESKE '63; ALLAN KNAPPENBERGER and LOUIS LANNERMEYER '69; son of GENE CALHOUN '32; TERRY KEN­NEDY 71; TOM BENNETT 70; WIL­LIAM KNAPP 70; Rev. JIM O'DON­NELL CSC; son of WILLIAM EATON 
•44; NORTON SCHONFELD '34 and NORTON SCHONFELD JR. '67; daughter and sister of DON DUGANS '34; grand­children of BERNARD VOLL '17; son of BOB CRONIN '37; daughter of Dr. TOM HUGHES '38; brother of BILL JAMIESON '66; and 25 Sisters of Holy Cross on pilgrimage to Father Moieau's tomb in LeMans, France. 
Papal point PAUL VI '60 holds a public audience each Wednesday forenoon. Tickets are no longer required. Also, his public papal blessing is given each Sunday noon. 
Roman hospitality: Our ND Hospitality Center at Ijirgo Brancaccio 82 (TeL: 
730.002) welcomes all comets each week­day from noon to nine. 
Vince McAloon '34 
SAN FRANCISCO BAY 
The San Francisco Bay Area ND Club held its annual meeting of members June 
13. Bro. FISHER IWASKO CSC '42, principal of Moreau High School, made available the school's facilities for the function. TOM KERNAN *55 performed admirably as event chairman. Special kitchen as^tance was provided by JIM O'DONOGHUE '58, head chef, and by JOHN GRANT '49. 
Seen elbowing their way to the beer keg during the predinner festivities were ED MADIGAN '55, FRANK GIAMBRONI '52, JACK DIORON '52 and GENE DE LAY '41. Other members observed enjoying the festivities were TOM BEHAN '37, JIM RILEY '59 and ANGELO CAPOZZI '56. 
The social hour and dinner were followed by brief reports from the club officers. JERRY SMITH '61, club secretary, reported on the action which the club had t^wn to incorporate as a nonprofit orga­nization. JOE CLINE '56, club Ueasurer, reported that the treasury had successfully withstood aimther year without serious dq>leUon. BILL SHERMAN '49, club president, annoimced that the club officers and board of directors elected to serve for the next year include Bill Sherman '49, president; Frank Giambroni '52, vice-president; Jerry Smith '61, secretary; Joe 
Cline 'S6, treasurer; James O'Donoghue '58, Tom Keman '55, BEN OAKES '31 and BRIAN CONWAY, board members. The meeting was followed by a viewing of the 1968 footi>aU hi^gbts, which con­cluded the planned portion of the meeting. 
Gerald C. Smith '61 
WASHINGTON, D.C. PAT KANE and TIM O'REILLY were cochairmen for a golf outing at the Reston 


CLUB DIRECTOUY 
ALABAMA John A. O'Brien Jr. '51, 2133 Vestridge Dr., Birmingham, Ala. 35216 ALASKA John S. Hellenthal '35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska 99501 ARIZONA Phoenix—Chuck Pilon, 5711 N. 12th Place, Phoenix, Ariz. 85014 rucTOM—Raymond T. TerUzzi '56, 717 W. Chula Vista, Tucson, Ariz. 85704 ARKANSAS Fort Smith—James A. Gilker '48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 72901 
Little Rock—A. J. Wrape Jr. '47, Industrial Lumber Co., 2200 E. 7th St., Little Rock, Ark. 72202 
CALIFORNIA Bakersfield—Robert J. Anspach '58, 6512 Desmond Ct., Bakersfield, Calif. 93308 C«n/ra/—Harold A. Bair '29 (secretary), 
2430 Tulare SL, Fresno, Calif. 93721 Los Angeles—John J. Stewart '59, 20324 Reaza Place, Woodland HUls, Calif. 91364 
Myers BIdg., Springfield, III. 62701 
San Francisco Bay Area—^William Sherman 
'49, 430 Mission, San Rafael, Calif. 94901 Orange County—Thomas J. Getzinger '53, 2323 Almira, FuUerton, Calif. 92631 5acraHien/o—Eugene V. Pongratz '53, 1024 42nd SL, Sacramento, Calif. 95819 
San D/ego—Donald G. Yeckel '55, 3123 Mercer Lane, San Diego, Calif. 92122 San Joje—Maurice J. DeWald '62, 4878 
Clarendon Dr., San Jose, Calif. 95129 COLORADO 
Colorado Springs—Maj. Raymond J. Bubick '54, Qtrs. 6454-E, USAF Academy, Colo. 80840 
Denver—Vincent J. Duncan '44, 1800 Security Life BIdg., Denver, Colo. 80202 CONNECTICUT Connecticut Valley—Fiank W. Lane '54, 260 Oak St., Wapping, Conn. 06087 Fairfield County—Dermis J. O'Neill Jr. '51, 8 Covewood Dr., Rowayton, Conn. 06853 
Naugatuck Valley—^Thomas K. Hubbard '56, Box 84 South St., Litchfield, Conn. 06759 
New Haven—Or. Robert T. Warner '53, 850 Choale Ave., Hamden, Conn. 06514 DELAWARE Paul N. Clemens, 827 Woodsdale Rd., Wil­mington, Del. 19809 DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
James A. Gammon '56, Molnar 4 Gammon, 2011 "I" St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006 
FLORIDA Cen/fa/—Norman E. Duke '33, 1340 Oxford Rd., Maitland, Fla. 32751 Fort Lauderdale—V/mam L. Dafly '28, 818 
S.E. 4th St, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33301 Greater Miami—Geoise A. Kennard Jr. '48, 780 N.W. 197 Terrace, Miami, Fla. 33169 
North Florida—Robeit D. Andrew, 3570 Beaucletc Rd., JacksonviUe, Fla. 32217 County Club on July IZ Thirty people attended and FRANK BEYTACH won the golf trophy. Sixty-three people were present for the dinner in the evening. The Juvenile Village, a local orphanage in the District of Columbia, was the site for the club's entertaimnent, an all-day cookout for the orphan children, ages 6-8. The children are warm and friendly and all who participated enjoyed the day as much as any of the children. BILL HAMILTON was chairman of this function. 
Palm Beach County—^James P. Kintz '54, 
c/o Atlantis Enterprises Inc., Atlantis, Fla. 33460 Pensacola—William L. Soule Jr. '62, P.O. Box 1550, Pensacola, Fla. 32502 
St. Petersburg-Tampa—Roy J. Deeb '50, 5635 Seventh Ave., North St Petersburg, Fla. 33710 GEORGIA 
Atlanta — Louis T. Loncaric '57, E.F. Hutton and Co., 2 Piyor Street S.W., Atlanta, Ga. 30303 HAWAII Richard K, Murata '57, 360 Puamamane St., Honolulu, Hawaii 96821 
IDAHO WaAo—Francis H. Hicks '49, 1180 Phdps Circle, Mountain Home, Idaho 83647 Idaho Falls—James M. Brady '29, Box 
2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho 83401 ILLINOIS /liirora—Richard Weiler '52, 32 Water, Aurora, III. 60504 Central Illinois—Mberl O. Eck Jr. '58, 810 
Cfc/cago—Kenneth R. Schuster '49, 5244 Woodland, Western Springs, III. 60555 Decamr—John F. Dunn '58, 523 Sheffield 
Dr., Decatur, III. 62526 Eastern Illinois—Maurice F. Stauder '41, 26 Lake Shore Dr., Danville, III. 61832 Fox Valley—George R. Schmidt "29, 620 Summit St., Elgin, 111. 60120 yo/ie/—Richard E. McHugh '43, R.R. 2, Manhattan, III. 60442 Lake County—Paxil E. Kamschulle '56, 1001 
N. Sheridan Rd., Waukegan, III. 60085 McHenry County—Leo J. Powers '25, 88 Grant St, Crystal Lake, III. 60014 Peoria—Robert K. Gordon Jr. '52, 1106 Parkside Dr., Peoria, III. 61606 Quad Cities—^mard J. Hank Jr. '51, 1812 37th St Ct., Moline, lU. 61265 /Joct/ord—William E. Schirger '63, 1321 
Camp Ave., Rockford, lU. 61103 Rock River Valley—James E. Dixon '64, 121 
E. First St., Dixon, III. 61021 
Southern Cook County—Robert N. Caffar­elli '55, 20851 Sparta Lane, Olympia Fields, III. 60461 
INDIANA Calumet District—Robert L. Hauler '51, 24 Marble St, Hammond, Ind. 46320 Eastern Indiana—David D. Wilson '54, 222 West Main St, Hartford City, Ind. 47348 £/AAart—James E. Hayes '49, 1715 E. Jack­son Blvd., Elkhart, Ind. 46514 Fort Wayne—Roraii L. Sowers '60, 1630 
W. Goldspur Dr., Fort Wayne, Ind. 46808 Indianapolis—^Leo C. McNamara '48, Box 20112, Indianapolis, Ind. 46220 
Michigan City — EKiminic J. Moffo '48, Roeske Trail, Pottawattomi Park, Michi­gan City, Ind. 46360 
St. Joseph Valley—Jerome B. Keams '61, 1344 E. Wayne St, South Bend, Ind. 46615 
which was kdd in eadjr Jnne. JIM EN­RIGHT dooaled three gifti to cadi at Oe chihben piesent at Ae cookouL 
Upcoming actnitiei: eaiiy SqMember—• field Mass and fnmir pna ^ late Septem­ber—4n open meetinc of Ike dnb; Oct 11 —TETE CANNC»4 wil be codninnan of the ND-Aimy trip to New YoA; Oeie w S be a midwinler piesentatiaa fay Oe ND Glee Chib. 
J. RonaU Lyndi '56 
Terre Haute—Jsbn E. Christen '60. 710 Ohio, Teire Haute, Ind. 47801 
Tri-State—RdbeA E. Griffin '57. Indian In­dustries, 817 Maxwdl Ave., Evansvaie^ Ind. 47711 
IOWA Burlington—itAta F. CftitSa, '52. 711 Mom­ingside Dr., Burlington. Iowa 52601 Des Moines — Joseph Biagnano '59, 2821 Patricia Dr., Des Moines, Iowa 50322 Dubuque—hovas P. Pfeiler '64, 5S5 Fisdier BIdg., Dubuque, Iowa 52001 5ioiix-Lamf—Raymond B. Duggan. '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City. Iowa SI 109 KANSAS Eastern Kansas—T. Heniy Devlin '49. 2203 CoUege, Topeka, Kan. 66611 So/ino—Albert J. McLean '31, 1410 Hi ^ land Ave., Salina, KaiL 47401 ICicAita—Nestor R. Weigand Jr. '6a HO 
N. Main, Wichita. Kan. 67202 KENTUCKY Gerald J. Bdand '63. 531 Garden Dr., Louisvnie, Ky. 40206 LOUISIANA New Orieans—J. PaUick Booker '62, 3401 Ridgeway Dr., Metaiiie, La. 70002 Northern touisiana-^Dr. Edward R. Morgan 
'44, 803 Jordan St, Sbrevepoit, La. 71101 MAINE 
Jess F. DeLois '42, R.FJD. 2, Brunswick. Maine 04011 MABYLAND Baltinmre—Doon B. Do ^ '55. 4304 Nor­wood Rd., Bammore, Md. 21218 MASSACHUSETCS Berkdiire County—James J. O'Brien Jr. *65, Western Mass. Supply Inc. 117 4ili St, Pitlsfidd, Mass. 0I20I Boston—Attbur P. Murphy '60, 381 Wash­ington St., Brainlree, Mass. 02184 Pioneer VtUley—V/iOam A. Huiley '28, 55 Maplewood Ter.. Springfidd, Mass. 01106 MICHIGAN Battle CnwJt—Raymond R. ADen '40. 1009 Security National Bank Bldg^ Batde Creek, Mich. 49017 Berrien County—Ht. Paul Leonard '43, 413 
S. St Joe, Niles. MidL 49120 
Blue Water District—V/iSSam L. Wibon '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron. Midi. 48060 
Deartont—Raymond K. De Fauw '47. 6100 Oakman Blvd., Dearborn, Midi. 48126 De/roif—Danid J. KeDy '57, 1201 Indian 
Mound W., Binnittijiam. Mich. 48010 Flint—Joba J. Kean '51. 830 S. Lenqr St, Fenton, Midi. 48430 
Gogebic itonge—Eugene R. Zinn '40. Wriilit 4 Zinn, Midiads BMg, Itoawood. Midi. 49938 
Grand Rapidi and Western Micliigan John TuOy '61. 2504 ADtert Dr. S£ . Grand Rapids. Midi. 49S06 
/acJbon—James A. LeFere '61, 3002 W. Mondl. Jackson. Mich. 49203 
Kalamazoo—^Thomas O- McKinley '58, 1554 Academy, Kalamazoo, Mich. 49007 Lansing—Da\id J. O'Leary '53, 403 Bartlett St, Lansing, Mich. 48915 Monroe—Mark S. Laboe '64, 311 Colonial Dr., Monroe, Mich. 48161 A/uiJte^on—Stanley R. Tyler Jr. '58, 2211 Reneer St., Muskegon, Mich. 49441 Saginaw Valley—James H. Howell '60, 3401 Washington, Midland, Mich. 48642 Top of Michigan—Edward L. Moloney '17, Bradner Lodge, Cheboygan, Mich. 49721 
MINNESOTA Twin CitiM—Albert D. Eilers '53, 1021 La Salle Ave., Minneapolis, Minn. 55403 MISSISSIPPI 
P. Nicholas "Nick" Harkins '63, 4359 Brook Dr., Jackson, Miss. 39206 MISSOURI Kansas City—William F. Ungashick '43, 3954 Central SL, Kansas City, Mo. 64111 St. Louis—John R. Powers Jr. '53, 1013 Tempo Dr., Creve Coeur, Mo. 63141 MONTANA Montana — Robert T. O'Leary '54, 2920 Floral Blvd., Butte, Mont. 59701 Billings—Thomas L. Doran Jr. '47, 1810 Westwood Dr., Billings, Mont. 59102 NEBRASKA Lincoln—George Easley '61, 3144 S. 35th SL, Lincoln, Neb. 68506 Omaha and Council Bluffs—John J. Hughes '62, 929 S. 131st St., Omaha, Neb. 65154 NEVADA Northern Nevada—Michael Montelatici '61, 77 W. 5th, Apt. 7, Reno, Nev. 89503 NEW JERSEY Central—^J. Norris Harding '57, 10 Dewey Dr., New Brunswick, NJ. 08901 
New Jersey Shore—Richard A. Cordasco '50, 143 Garden Rd., Shrewsbury, NJ. 07701 
New Jersey—^William H. Crosby '61, c/o Eastman-Dillon, Union Securities & Co., 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10005 
South Jersey—James B. Carson '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonfield, NJ. 08033 NEW MEXICO John L. KeUer '57, 6000 Rogers N.E., Albu­
querque, N.M. 87110 

NEW YORK Albany—Richard B. Cunningham '57, 192 
Hudson River Rd., Waterford, N.Y. 12188 Bu#o/o—William C. Kane '59, 2075 Colvin . Rd., Tonawanda, N.Y. 14150 Cenrra/—Arthur W. Kanerviko Jr. '60, 206 
Ludden Parkway, Syracuse, N.Y. 13219 Golden Circle—James F. McVay '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 16701 
Mid-Hudson Valley—Dr. Henry W. Fletcher '50, 53 Adriance Ave., Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 12601 
Mohawk Valley—Raymond M. Belden '49, 
1609 Mohawk SL, Uu'ca, N.Y. 13501 New York City—Alan R. Davidson '64, Up­per Dogwood Lane, Rye, N.Y. 10580 Roc/iesjer—John G. Curran '56, 260 SL 
Gabriel Dr., Rochester, N.Y. 14610 Schenectady—Robert A. Lupe '55, 875 
Westbohn Rd., Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 Syracuse—^See Central Southern Tier—Frank F. O'Brien '34, 201 
Federation Bldg., Hmira, N.Y. 14900 Triple Cities—Fraiik M. Linehan '45, 2 Eliz­abeth SL, MR97,Binghamton,N.Y. 13905 NORTH CAROLINA Donald J. Kelsey '48, 1115 Westridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. 27410 NORTH DAKOTA William Daner '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarck, N.D. 58501 
OHIO ^kron—Robert N. Stack '41, 2393 Wood-park Rd., Akron, Ohio 44313 Canton—Sam J. Dominick '62, 631 Church SL, North Canton, Ohio 44720 Cincinnati—John F. Lynch '63, 3823 Broad­view Dr., Cincinnati, Ohio 45208 
Cleveland—Victor J. Gulyassy '42, 412 Women's Federal Bldg, 312 Superior Ave. N.E., Qeveland, Ohio 44114 
Columbus — John M. Guenin '62, 2781 Lymington Rd., Columbus, Ohio 43221 Oarwn—Ronald F. Henne '57, 4353 Brum­
baugh Blvd., Dayton, Ohio 45416 Hamilton—Jerome A. Ryan '41, 353 S. "D" SL, Hamflton, Ohio 45013 Mansfield — Robert H. Entrup '49, 187 Marion Ave., Mansfield, Ohio 44903 Northwestern—V/ditei R. Bernard *30, 433 Johnson Ave., Celina, Ohio 45822 Sandusky —Kchaii C. Hohler '47, 2603 Eastwood Dr., Sandusky, Ohio 44879 Tiffin—Fred J. Wagner' '29, 152 Sycamore SL, Tiffin, Ohio 44883 Toledo—Viban F. Gradel '58, 2628 Algon­quin Parkway, Toledo, Ohio 43606 
Youngsiown—Emmet J. Tyrrell '60, 1002 Union National Bank Bldg., Youngstown, Ohio 44503 
OKLAHOMA Oklahoma C//>>—Eugene J. Schmit '55, 4804 
N.W. 74th SL, Oklahoma City, Okla. 73132 Tuba—Fariis P. Saffa '40, P.O. Box 3165, Tulsa, Okla. 74101 OREGON Raymond J. Martin '50, 11450 S.W. Berk­shire St., Portland, Ore. 97225 PENNSYLVANIA 
Central Pennsylvania—Dr. George W. Kat­ter '41, U.S. Bank Bldg., Johnstown, Pa. 15901 
Erie—Leo J. Brugger Jr. '61, 622 Connecti­cut Dr., Erie, Pa. 16505 Harrisburg—Joseph EUam '58, 4106 HiUs­dale Rd., Harrisburg, Pa. 17112 Lehigh Valley — NeU F. Kelly '48, 2417 
Fairview SL, Allentown, Pa. 18104 Monongahela Valley—no president Philadelphia—George V. Mitchell Jr. '58, 
Kidder, Peabody Co., Inc., 123 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19109 Pittsburgh—Frank. F. Conte '56, 410 Valley Dr., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15215 Scranton—^William M. Comerford '49, 1626 Mousey, Scranton, Pa. 18509 
Wilkes-Barre—Michael J. Gorham '60, 19 Susquehanna Ave., Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 18702 Williamsport—Joseph F. Orso Jr. '55, Box 
27, WiUiamsport, Pa. 17701 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS Peter J. Sutherland '55, 121 Briaibrook Dr., 
North Kingston, R.I. 02852 SOUTH CAROLINA Julian D. Michel '43, 26 Broad SL, Charles­ton, S.C. 29401 
TENNESSEE CfcaKanooga—Robert J. Shockey '61, 509 Cherry St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402 
Memphis—Joseph S. Signaigo '48, 1687 Btyn Mawr Circle, Germantown, Tenn. 38038 
Nashville—Richard T. Martin Jr. '54, Ely­sian Garden, ApL G-6, Nashville, Tenn. 37211 
TEXAS Da/to—Edward C. Fleming '63,11256 Webb Chapel SL, Dallas, Tex. 75219 El Paso—Gus P. Momsen Jr. '49, 4427 Oxford, El Paso, Tex. 79903 
Houston—J. Moore McDonough '57, 1800 Houston Natural Gas Bldg., Houston, Tex. 77002 
San Antonio—Lawrence L. Keough '61, 232 Seford, San Antonio, Tex. 78209 UTAH 
LL Cmdr. Charles A. Bennett '55, Naval Oceanographic Distribution Office, Qear­field, Utah 84016 
VIRGINIA Frank J. WaUmeyer, 8321 Whistler Rd., Richmond, Va. 23227 WASHINGTON Spokane—John G. Heskett '63, S. 2724 Howard, Spokane, Wash. 99203 Ww/em—Thomas P. May '55, 4237 85th Ave. S.E., Mercer Island, Wash. 98040 WEST VIRGINIA lyest Virginia—CyiH M. Reich '39, 903 S. Drew SL, SL Albans, W. Va. 25177 Central—John D. Julian '40, Box 2063, aarksburg, W. Va. 26301 Ohio Valley—vrmiam J. Buch '59, 42 Lyn-wood Ave., WheeUng, W. Va. 26003 
• WISCONSIN Fox River Valley—John K. Gschwind '56, 319 E. Frances, Appleton, Wis. 54911 Green Bay—Dr. Frank J. Dega '56, 200 Arrowhead Dr., Green Bay, Wis. 54301 La Crosse—Da\id F. Hyde '40, 230 S. 20th SL, La Crosse, Wis. 54601 Aferri//—Augustus H. Stange '27, 102 S. Prospect St., Merrill, Wis. 54452 A/Z/ivauA^e—David B. Murphy '57, 5343 N. Kent, Whitefish Bay, Wis. 53217 
Northwest Wisconsin—Ben M. Sirianni Jr. '60, 2719 Keith SL, Eau Claire, Wis. 54701 
South Central—Thomas M. Hinkes '51, 5414 Dorsett Dr., Madison, Wis. 53711 WYOMING Patrick H. Meenan '49, Midwest Bldg., Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 82601 FOREIGN CLUBS Brad/—Thomas E. Carroll Jr. '58, 14210 
Alameda Ave., Mianu Lakes, Fla. 33012 Canada—no president CfaVe—Rev. Francis A. Provenzano CSC 
'42, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santi­ago, Chile, S.A. Colombia—J. Ramon de la Torre '57, Calle 78, No. 8-02, Bogota, Colombia, S.A. Ecuador—^Temistodes Teran '49, Apartado 179, Quito, Ecuador, S.A. £n;/aru/—Donald C. Lueck '50, 99 Eaton Ter., London SWI, England Manila — Lawrence J. Gotuaco '54, Box I1S2, Manna, Philippines Mexico City—Richard C. Leon '44, Monte Kamenun 225, Mexico 10, D.F. Mexico Nicaragua—tioel Pallais '49, Apartado 2119, Managua, Nicaragua, Central America 
Northern European—Frank T. McGuire '35, Mana^ng Director, John Deere, S.A., Postfach 949, 69 Heidelberg, Germany 
Pafcujan—Rev. Frank J. Burton CSC '33, Box 5, Notre Dame College, Dacca-2-, East Pakistan 
Paruuna—Lorenzo Romagosa '45, Box 8307, Panama, Panama Peru—Enrique Lulli '45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru, S.A. Puerto Rico—Gilberto M. Marxuach '61, Box 9848, Santurce, Puerto Rico 00908 
Rome—Vincent G. McAloon '34, (secre­tary), Palazzo Brancaccio, Largo Bran­caccio, 82, Rome, Italy 
San Salvador—ftoiando Duarte F. '47, 71 Av. Norte 222, San Salvador, El Salvador, Central America 
Tokyo—Kev. Peter T. Moriwaki SJ. '65, Sophia University 7, Kiocho, Chiyodak, Tokyo, Japan 
Venezuela — Mervyn J. Gorman Jr. 39, Apartado 1651, Caracas, Venezuela, S.A. 


GRADUATE SCHOOLS 
Dr. D'Antonio (second from right) with members of the research team which went 
to Fabens, Tex. 

Study of a dying tourn 
An ND alumnus in a small Texas town wrote a letter to the University last March expressing concern about the failing community in which he lives. The result of that letter was the first specific project of ND's new Robert F. Kennedy Institute, an umbrella-like organization for the coordination of student social action projects. 
Nine students and two faculty members spent their summer in Texas studying the dying town and, during the fall semester, will be working on a report of their findings, which is expected to be released in the spring. 
The project began when Rev. Robert M. Getz, the pastor of Our Lady of Guadalupe Parish in Fabens, Tex., proposed to Jess Daffron, a 1963 ND graduate, that the parish dip into its bank account and hire graduate students to do research in the conununity. Daffron contacted Dr. William V. D'Antonio, chairman of the ND sociology and anthropology department, an^ described the plight of his community, a border town in southwest Texas with a population of about 4,000. An unincorporated town, Fabens is one of the many communities across the U.S. which are suffering economically and socially from the rapid decline of cotton as its primary source of income. 
The proposal for research in the town captured the interest of the 
sociology and anthropology depart­
ment, and means of financing the 
study were soon sought. Leaders of 
the R.F.K. Institute voted to give 
$15,000 to support the project. The 
Fabens parish provided $5,000 for 
research. 
The study team, including both undergraduates and graduates from St. Mary's and ND, spent over two months in Fabens, conducting inter­views and examining the community. 
The objective of the research was to compile a report which would include information about the follow­ing topics: the town's history; demographic and geographic analyses; the small-business situation; the school system; the world view of young, unmarried adults living in the community; the medical and public welfare services available; crime, juvenile delinquency and leisure activities in Fabens; community decision making; and levels and distribution of income. 
D'Antonio, who was in Fabens during the summer along with Dr. Irwin Press of the sociology and anthropology department, said one of the major goals of the project was "to help the people of Fabens think more effectively about their future." According to D'Antonio, the town's biggest export is people, relatively poorly trained and primarily of Spanish-speaking backgrounds. Few, 
if any, of the Mexican Americans from Fabens who graduate from the local high school are qualified to enter college—evidenced by the fact that even though there was a full scholarship waiting at ND for a young man from Fabens, the study group could not find a qualified student to whom it could be awarded. 
The group is hopeful that its report might serve as some type of model for cities which have similar problems. The report will be, according to D'Antonio, a fairly complete diagnostic survey of the conununity, including an evaluation of the economic base and potential of Fabens. To the extent possible, the study group hopes to make a series of recommendations which the people of Fabens mi^t consider. 
In writing to the people in Fabens, Dr. D'Antonio stated, "As we perceive the situation now.most OMmnunities like Fabens are simply allowed to die their natural deaths, and the majority of the working-class citizens end up drifting into one or another large city like El Paso. If Fabens is to be kept alive, indeed if it is to achieve a new vitality, a dynamic new relation­ship between social and econonuc forces must be developed. Hopefully, one result of our stu^ will be to provide you the information necessary to know whether such a new vitality is possible." 
CHEMISTRY 
Prof. Patrick McCusker recently received 
a $5,000 award for support of research on 
organometallic compounds from Gulf 
Research and Development Co. Dr. Gerald 
Goe has a one-year staff appointment in 
chemistry beginning in September. He 
received his Ph.D. in organic chemistry 

from M.I.T. and was a postdoctoral re­
search associate at Iowa State U. 
Those receiving the Ph.D. in chemistry at the August commencement included CHARLES MACEACHERN, with DuPont in Parlin, NJ.; JOSEPH STRUKL, Ameri­can Oa, WhiUng, Ind.; and WILLIAM WILLY, who is starting postdoctoral re­search at Sunford U. KATHY MICHUDA, 
M.S. '66, completed the requirements for the Ph.D. in biochemistry in July and became Mrs. John Kozak later in the month. 
JIM DADURA '60 is a research tech­nologist in commercial development at Texaco research center. Beacon, N.Y. Dr. Harry W. Gibson, a postdoctoral research associate at ND in 1965, recently joined the staff of the organic and polymer chemistry branch of Xerox Corp., Webster, 
N.Y. ART KRANSFELDER '39 is director of process research and develop­ment at Eli Lilly, Indianapolis. 
Bro. Columba Curran CSC 
Department of Chemistry 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
ENGLISH The August commencement exercises made alunmi of over 40 graduate students in English. A doctorate was conferred upon WILLIAM JOSEPH PALMER and RICHARD R- REYNOLDS; the master's degree was coirferred upon: MARGARET FLORENCE BOAL, Sr. MARIE THE­RESE BROUSSARD, Rev. GABRIEL G. BULLOCK, Sr. ELIZABETH DAUGH­ERTY, Bro. DONALD P. DWYER, Sr. VICTORIA M. FORDE, Sr. MARY STELLA GAMPFER, EILEEN M. DONOHOE, ARTHUR J. EAVES, GEARY F. ELLET, Sr. KATHLEEN ANN FAGAN, Sr. M. KATHRYN GRANT, STEPHEN D. GREGOIRE, Rev. WILLIAM H. HENKEL, DOUGLAS A. HIGGINS, Sr. MAGDELAINE HILL, GREGORY HOLTZ, Sr. M. RITA KALFAS, Rev. DONALD KEENAN, Sr. MARY PAULISSA KLAUSING, MARY 
ANN KNOLL, Mrs. IRENE L. LEAHY, ROBERT LEE MAHON, Sr. JOHN GREGORY MATT, Sr. M. RUTH McAULEY, Sr. CATHERINE MARIE MONKS, Sr. KATHRYN MORAN, Bro. JOHN PLUMPE, Sr. MARY ANTONE RECK, Sr. RITA MARIE SCHONHOFF, Bro. RICHARD J. SCHRADER, Mrs. KATHRYN E. SERKES, Sr. JOSEPH MARION SHAPPELLE, Mrs. ELOISE WOOD SMITH, BARBARA STARRETT, Sr. CLAIRE MARIE SULLIVAN, ROBERT D. UNDERWOOD, Rev. BERT 
W. VALDES, Mrs. MARGARET VAN DER GRACHT (nee Zwers), THOMAS C. WIDNER, HENRY W. WOOD, FREDERICK ZINKANN. 
ROBERT FINNEGAN Ph.D. '69, a reserve Army officer, has been on active doty for the past six months and already longs for his discharge in January, 1971. He has thus far been shunted througb fluee Southeastern states and a 12-week coiiise in Vietnamese, with Vietnam itself to come in December. Meanwhile, his mind it on scholarship. Philological Quarterly has just accepted an article of his for 
publication: Entitled "Christ and Satan," it 
comes from his dissertation. For Ae Aimy 
and the article we send, respectively, con­
dolences and congratulations. 
Let all alumni of the En^ish department 
mourn the softball game, late last July, in which the graduate student men challenged -the faculty and lost. The score: faculty 32— 
students 14. But if the faculty gave die 
students a low grade as challengeis, they 
awarded each a gold star as hosts. Tlie 
weather was lovely, the refreshments were 
refreshing, the arrangements were well 
arranged and the fans (wives, prl friends, 
men and women students and more fac­
ulty) were loyal and loud. It was a great 
way to end the year. 
Edward Vasta 
Director of Graduate Studies 
Department of English 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
P.S.: May I (speaking as his secretary for 
the past two years) say thank you. Dr. 
Vasta, for a job well done as director of 
graduate studies. And to Dr. James P. 
Dougherty, who will assume Ac position of 
director of graduate studies in September: 
Best wishes in your new duties. 
Mrs. Georgeanna Caldwell 
msroRY Everyone associated with the ND history department for the last generation will be saddened to learn of the sudden death on July 5 of one of ND's great men, Kev. Thomas T. McAvoy, CSC. Fr. McAvoy had been Univeisity archivist since 1929 and was head of the history department from 1939-1960. In these two decades, in the face of many obstacles, he ef­fected enormous improvements in all the department's programs, brou^t in neariy all the senior professors who are now members of the department, and established academic standards which have since been emulated by the rest of the liberal arts college. One of Fr. McAvoy's outstanding qualities was a truly exceptional capacity for work. Five persons now perform the administrative tasks which Fr. McAvoy did alone for 21 years. Yet somehow he found time in those years to teach his courses in historiography and American Church history, to serve on the editorial staff of the Review of Politics and to write extensivdy. It is both tragic and ironic that Fr. McAvoy should have died only a month after reaching retirement age, but sin­gularly appropriate that he was in hb ofiice, at bis desk (even though it was Saturday afternoon) when the end came. 
Fr. McAvoy was the author of many scholariy articles and several books, of which perhaps the best known was his life of Cardinal O'Hara. He had just completed a general history of the Catholic Chiudi in the U.S. Even more important to scholars, however, were the extensive collections of source materials he amassed in the course of 40 years, collec­tions which have made the ND arduves indispensable for anyone imdertaking serious research in American Cathcdic Church history. 
Those of us who were Fr. McAvoy's students or colleagues (in a few cases, both) will alwaysremember his industry, inspiration, personal example and friend­ship. He has well earned his eternal reward. 
Dr. CHARLES J. TULL M.A.'57, Ph.D.'62, associate professor and assistant chairman of the Indiana U. at South Bend history department, has published a book entitled American History Since 1865. The book is part of a new review series put out by Barnes and Noble which will eventually cover all college-level subjects. Dr. Tull has been on the lUSB faculty since 1966. He is currently writing the biography of Edward .N. Hurly, one of the first ND lay trustees. Dr. Tull is also the author of Father Coughlin and the New Deal, published in 1965. 
Bernard Norling 
Department of History 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
LAW SCHOOL THOMAS J. McCUSKER, a South Bend native, ND grad and son of an ND chemistry professor, took top honors in the June graduating class. He was one of three cum laude graduates, and he won the Hoynes Award, the Dean Joseph O'Meara Award, the Lawyers Title Award and the Prentice-Hall Award. The first two prizes are for overall excellence in law school; the others are for special work in real property and in the law of taxation. 
ROBERT J. NEIRYNCK (Illinois, U. of 111.) won the Farabaugh Prize for "high scholarship in law." That prize is given in honor of the late Gallitzan A. Farabaugh of South Bend. Neiiynck also graduated 

cum laude. 
The Law Week Award, for the greatest academic improvement in the third year, went to RUSSELL J. HEIPLE of Penn­sylvania. JAMES ROLLS of New York won the International Academy of Trial Lawyers plaque for "proficiency in advo­cacy," and DENNIS J. MACKIN of Ohio won the estate-planning prize. LOUIS STAHL (New Jersey, Wheehng College), ii4io is, among other things, the father of three children, won the Dean William Konop Prize for "distinguished scholarship by afirst-year student" 
The A. Harold Weber Moot Court Awards went to MR. ROLLS and to DAVID PRIOR of Rhode Island. The Weber Research Paper Awards were given to REGIS TRENDA of Iowa and RICHARD HARBINGER of California. 
Prof. GEORGE WILLIAMS KEETON, who recently retired as head of the faculty of laws at University College, U. of London, has been named professor of English law on the ND law faculty. Prof. Keeton is the author of several books on En^ish legal histoiy and is an interna­tionally respected legal scholar. He will lecture on En^ish law on the ND campus and assist ND's resident professor in London in administering the year-abroad law program at University College. 
This is a summer of remodeling in the law school. The north half of the law auditorium has been partitioned off and turned into two large rooms for law school use. One of these will be a refurbished, newly furnished student lounge; the other will be a study and seminar room. The Notre Dame Lawyer has moved its offices into «iiat was the student lounge, and the stndent cotke bar is being spruced up for fall operatioiL Room 100, which has been used by the Lawyer for the past several years, has been partitioned into six new Acuity offices and a small faculQr lounge. The building will soon be ready for this year's net increase of three professors in the faculty and a student enrollment that may exceed 300. 

In the Jime, 1969, Notre Dame Lawyer Walter P. North, A Brief Histoiy of Federal Investment Company Legisla­tion (Mr. North is associate general counsel of the Securities and Ex­change Commission.) Parker W. Nielson, Neglected Alterna­tives for Investor Self-Help: The Unregistered Investment Company and the Federal Coiporate Law Murray L. Simpson and Scott Hodes, The Continuing Controvert Sur­rounding the Unifonn Price Mainte­nance Provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940 An unprecedented 2S2-page student note, "The Mutual Fund Industry: A Legal Survey," by Richard H. Farina, John P. Freeman and James Webster, aU of the Qass of 1970 Student recent-decision comments on class actions in securities regulation; unfair competition by charitable corporations; parent-child immtmity in New York; and entertainment-expense deductions under the federal income tax Book reviews by Daniel L. Skoler and Harold G. Wren Three pages of sour grapes from the Lawyer's retiring editorial staff, on the law school's abolition of ranking The Lawyer also published in July a sixth issue for this volume, devoted entirely to the law school's centennial observance. 
Membership in the ND Law Association is available to all ND law grads as well as those who attended the undergraduate school and are now attorneys. Member­ship in the association may be effected by forwarding name and address to: Miss Monica Jeffers Executive Secretary, ND Law Association Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
Tom Shaffer Law School Notte Dame, Ind. 46556 
MEIALLURGICAL ENGINEERING It has been several months since our last column, during which time there has been a greatflurry of local departmental activity. The current major reorganization of the engineering college will produce a number of changes in the fall. Nicholas F. Fiore, iriio joined our department in Februaiy, 1966, has been promoted to associate professor. He will be taking the reins as our new department chairman. On behalf of the faculty and students here, as well as the many of you who know Prof. Ettore A. Peretti, who has been head and chairman over the past 18 years, I wish to express our gratitude for his long hours and hard work in our behalf, congratulate him for having survived this most difficult of tasks and wish him the best of eveiy good thing as he enters a new era. Along with taking good care of the many duties of a department head. Dr. Peietti has managed to keep very active professionally in re­search, publishing 52 papers during this 18-year period. 
Some time ago I had mentioned that we had lost track of DILIP K. DAS Ph.D.'54. According to a recent issue of Industrial 
Research Magazine, Dr. Das is now 
principal engineer at Raytheon's microwave 
and power tube division, Waltham, Mass. 
ND has boasted a chapter of Alpha 
Sigma Mu, the metallurgical and materials 
engineering honor society, since 1962 (Ac 
Indiana Alpha Chapter). Or. Peretti has 
served the society as local faculfy sponsor, 
national trustee and national treasurer and 
will be installed as president of the society 
in October at the annual meeting in 
Philadelphia. Since this past May, when 
two new members were elected to the 
society, our membership stands at S8, 
including 23 who hold advanced degrees 
from the department These include 
JAMES A. DONOVAN Ph.D.'66, ROB­
ERT P. O'SHEA M.S.'61, HUGH MC­
QUEEN PhJ).'61, TAYLOR LYMAN 
(Honoraiy) Ph J>.'44, D. K. VENKATU 
Ph.D.'65, RONALD G. VARDIMAN 
Ph.D.'61, HIROYUKIICHINOSE Ph J).'60, 
ROBERT F. KRAUSE PhJ).'66, DONALD 
E. SCHERPEREEL Ph.D.'64, CHARLES 
W. ALLEN (Honoraiy) Ph.D.'58, H. S. NAYAR M.S.'62, DIPAK K. BAGCHI Ph.D.'67, SYMAL LAHIRI M.S.'64, NORRIS A. HOOTON Ph.D.'66, KAILASAM R. IYER Ph:D.'69, ROBERT 
M. RUSNAK Ph.D.'66, WILUAM D. MANLY (Honoraiy) M.S.'49, FRANCIS 
T. McGUIRE (Honoraiy) PhD.'41, M. M. KUMAR M.S.'64, MAHESH C. MANGA­LICK Ph.D.'68, LOUIS A. RAZZETH M.S.'67, K. VAITHINATHAN M.S.'67, and HIROSHI AKITA M.S.'68. Members RONALD W. JONES, JOSEPH P. PERRY and HIROSHI AKITA are cur­rently doctoral candidates here. 
Professor C. W. Allen Department of Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
MUSIC Rev. G. Carl Hager CSC, chairman of the music department, has recently announced the appointment of Robert F. O'Brien as chairman of the summer session. Mr. O'Brien is beginning his 17th year as director of bands at the Univeraty. He has attended Southern Illinois U., the Navy School of Music and Catholic U. of America. He received his master's degree from the State U. of Iowa and did post­graduate work at the U. of Colorado. O'Brien is honoraiy life president of the National Catholic Bandmasters Assn. and is quite active in various state and national music organizations. 
Rev. Patrick.Maloney CSC has recorded an album for Educo Records. Selections include "Songs of a Wayfarer," by Gustav Mahler, and "Liederkreis," by Robert Schumann. Recordings are available through the ND Bookstore or can be obtained directly from Educo Records, Ventura, Calif. 
We would like to welcome the following to the ranks of our graduate school alumni: FRANCIS AMUSSEN, Sr. CLARE BECKER. Sr. THOMAS KILL, Sr. CAROLITA McMAHON, PATRICIA ROGUSKA and SHARON WESNER. 
JIM McGINTY '66 is presently working in the East Liverpool Public School System, East Liverpool, Ohio. TOM KIRBER recently received a stipendiat by the German government to pursue work at the Carl Orff Institute in Vienna. Sr. DAVID RADSTATTER '68 had a tone poem performed by the Fort Wayne Symphony this past season. 
Now that the projects you planned for completion during the sunnner mon At have been deferred until June, 1971^ dejectioB and the feelinc of a laik of «"'~fi4iih ment have set in. Knowing this feding, I would like to dfer a pos^ble sdution. Wiflun a veiy few minutes u d iridi an aba<dute minimum of cflioit, yea could jot down any infoimaticm idative to your position, iriieieabouls, etc. For exanqile: -*I am aKve and wdL Existing in West Middlesex, Pa." What afiwHng of soccesa —an entire project completed. Yon can face the worid again. (NOTE: Messages do not have to be legiHe.) 
It becomes incieasnily difficult to relate nonexistent informatioiL Honest James S. Phm^ Univeisily Bands, Box 523 Notre Dame, Ind. 46S56 
PHYSICS Having devoted the last column to news about the physics department, I had better concentrate this time on the primaiy objective of this column, namdy, an account of the past and pfesent activities and the present iriieieaboitts of some of our old PhJ>. ahunnL So here we go. 
THOMAS F. RUANE '65 (nuclear idiysics), wife, Joan, and two childRii, Mary Ann and Kathleen, live at 1362 Rowe Rd., Schenectady, N.Y. 12309. After receiving his PiiJ>., Tom joined General Eelectric Co.'s Kndb Atomic Power Lab as a reactor physicist Apparently, Tom really liked G.E. and G.E. liked him, for Tom is still with them. He was pnnioted to supervising physicist at KAPL in 1959 and, since 1961, he has been serving as manager, experimental physics, at KAPL. 
EMIL "Mike" BANAS '55 (U ^ pdymer physics), wife, Margaret, and two chfldren, Maiy iuad Barbara, live at 1726 Davis Ave, Whiting, Ind. 46394. Mike graduated £rom St Procopius CoOege in 1943 and then entered the U.S. Navy's wartime officer training program at ND, receiving Us ensign's conunission in 1943. Duiing the period 1943-46 (W-W. II) be was on active duty with the U.S. Navy. He entered the inactive reserve in 1946 with the tank of Lt USNR. From 1946-49. Mike served as an instructor in mathematics and physics and also as dnuna coach at St Procopius College. Versatile, wasn't he? From 1949-SO Mike was with the dvil service, state of Indiana, adiile awaiting acceptance to graduate school at ND. After receiving his PhD. £rom ND in 1955, he joined the American 0 0 Company (Stan­dard Oil), iriiere he is currently senior project lAysicist in the research and development department Mike also man­aged to get in a little "moonH^ting" during the years 1955 to 1960, serving as a lecturer in modem physics at Purdue U.'s extension in Hammond. Mike has retained a veiy active interest in educatim, having served as president of St Procopius 
College's Alumni Assn. (195941) and as a member of the board of trustees of St Procopius College (1959-61). He is currently serving as an industrial con­sultant to St Procopigs' cbemistiy de{»rtment In recognition of his many achievements and contributions, Mike was named "Alumnus of the Year" in 1965 by St Proctqaus College. 
The editor says that's all for this time; so I guess I had better wrap up this column. 
Robert L. Astiioay Department of Physics Notre Dame, Ind. 46SS6 
ON UECOMIMP 
ENGAGEMENTS Miss Josephine Ann Monde to DAVID KILROV '61. 
Miss Elizabeth Ann Long SMC to Air Force Lt. GARRETT ANDREW ISACCO '66. 
Miss Nancy Ann Sheeran SMC to THOMAS J. CHOLIS JR. '67. Miss Constance Lesson Cogswell SMC '69 to JAMES MICHAEL MARTIN '67. Miss Diane Mary Hart SMC to THOMAS KEVIN KNOWLES '68. Miss Elaine Rose Barcza to 2nd Lt. JAMES JOSEPH ROWAN '68. Miss SheUa Kaye Mark to MICHAEL JOHN FERRERO '69. 
MARRIAGES 
Miss Jan E. Weeden to T.M. BLOOMING '62, June 21. Miss Nancy Powers to Atty. THOMAS P. GOODWIN '62, July 26. Miss Sandra Isabel Markarian to ROBERT JUDGE RILEY '62, June 18. Miss NOREEN MARGARET DEANE 
M.A. '64, '68 to Dennis William Moran, July 12. Miss Rojean Margaret Dibbern to EDWARD A. MACIULA '64, June 7. Miss Susan Anne Kenney to ROBERT GILES DONOVAN M.D. '65, June 7. Miss Deborah Ann Harris to LAWRENCE H. DWYER '66, Aug. 16. Miss Eileen Muscarella to J. W. DAVIS JR. '67, Aug. 24. Miss JULIANN M. DONOGHUE M.A. '67 to John T. O'Connor, July 12. Miss Melanie Riecuch to LOUIS S. GASPEREC '67, Aug. 9. Miss Jane Ann Calabria SMC '69 to HARRY D. McPEAK JR. '67, Aug. 2. Miss Elizabeth Ann Pankosky to PAUL M. MORTON '67, Feb. 22. 
Miss Joan Waters SMC '68 to WILLIAM DUNFEY '68 and Miss Virginia Waters SMC '68 (twin sister of Joan) to BRIAN McMAHON '68, in a double ceremony, June 14. 
Miss Mary Catherine Rodighero SMC '69 to JAMES RICHARD HOKE '68. Miss Diane Elizabeth Daly to MICHAEL THOMAS McGARRY '68, April. Miss Carta Jane Dahl to EDUARDO RUEDA '68, Aug. 2. Miss Cathyann Therese Baldwin to STEPHEN DANIEL BERRY '69, July 12. Miss Mary Mount to DON GREGORY FORTIN '69, July 12. Miss Nancy Jeanne Shelton to RICHARD ALLEN LICINI '69, May 3. 
BIRTHS 
Mr. and Mrs. JOHN BOLGER '57, a dau^ter, Beth Erin, June 4. Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. GAUL '57, a son, Damien Joseph, July 10. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS R. MARIANI '57, a daughter, Ann Marie, Aug. 15. Mr. and Mrs. GERALD TRAFFICANDA '57, a son, Timothy Whitley, June 26. Mr. and Mrs. JAMES KEEGAN '59, a son, Michael Donnelly, June 30. Mr. and Mrs. DOUGLAS ARMSTRONG '61,' a dau^ter, Aug. 15. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD BARRETT '61, a son, Gregory Richard, Aug. 1. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HUBER '62, a daughter, Wei-Ling Ruth, March 25. Mr. and Mrs. PATRICK F. MURPHREE '62, a dau^ter, Megan Donnelly, June 11. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN PUGLIESE '62, a son, Kevin Michael, May 29. 
Capt. and Mrs. THOMAS J. KIEFER, '65, a son, Michael Thomas, April 9. 
Mr. and Mis. John WUliams (BARBARA KENNEDY WILLIAMS M.A. '66), a daughter, Anne Marie, June 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. FRANK HONERKAMP JR. '67, a son, June 10. The grandfather is FRANK W. HONERKAMP "34. 
Mr. and Mrs. T.E. McCASKEV '67, a son, Kevin Edward, October, 1968. LL and Mrs. PATRICK A. PALOPOLI '67, a son, Patrick Anthony III, May 16. Mr. and Mis. BRIAN SM'iTTH '67, a son, Brian John, July 9. Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS F. MULLIGAN '68, a son, Casey Bryant, July 16. 
SYMPATHY 
EDMUND J. QUINN '11 on the death of his wife, Norah, July. She was the mother of JOHN QUINN '41. 
ELMER F. LAYDEN 75 on the death of his wife, Edith, July 16. JAMES M. PEARSON '26 on the death of his wife, Margaret, May 13. 
JOHN V. McMANMON "28 and ARTHUR McMANMON '31 on the death of their brother. Gen. Arthur F. McManmon. 
FRANK W. HONERKAMP '34 on the death of his son, Robert, July 26. Robert . was the brother of FRANK HONERKAMP JR. '67. 
Rev. ANTHONY LAUCK CSC '42 on the death of his mother, Mary, Aug. 12. JAMES M. DRONEY '48 on the death of his wife, Patricia, May 8. JAMES A. GILKER '48 on the death of his son, August PAUL A. GIBBONS '52 on the death of his father, Paul C. Gibbons, April 2. CHARLES L. SIZER '67 on the death of his father, Charles J. Sizer, June 7. PETER H. WAYNE '68 on the death of his father, P. H. Wayne, May 28. 
DEATHS ARTHUR COLE '86. He resided on Reading Rd., Cincinnati, Ohio. 
LEONARD F. SMITH '06, May 14. He is survived by his son, FRANCIS H. "38, 9137 Garnish Dr., Downey, Calif. 90240. 
WILLIAM C. SCHMITT '10, July 13. He resided on Salmon St, Portland, Ore. 
•JOHNP. MURPHY LL.B. '12, July 15. He resided in Cleveland, Ohio. 
WELLS T. ALBADE '13, July 11. He is survived by his family, 216 Tamaiada Dr., Naperville, III. 60540. 
JOSEPH D. DREIBELBIS '13, June 3. He is survived by his widow, 1622 E. Donald St., South Bend, Ind. 46613. 
EUGENE A. MALONEY '13. Oct 13. 1968. He is survived by his daughter, Mrs. 
C. Fantaskey, 637 Second Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 17701. 
VINCENT DePAUL RYAN '13, Dec. 9, 1967. He resided on Watkins Lake Rd., Pontiac, Mich. 
RICHARD T. BRAUN '14, Aug. 3. He is survived by his widow, 3901 Fourth St, Port Arthur, Tex., his son, RICHARD T. JR. '54, and two daughters. 
Rev. EDMUND O'CONNOR '15, April 25, 1965. He resided in LakevHle, Minn. 
JOSEPH HENRY MILLER '16. He 

resided on Portland Ave., Rochester, N.Y. 
PAUL JOSEPH HAGAN "20, 1968. He 
is survived by his widow, Box 238, Glendive, 
Mont 58330. 
LEO J. MIXSON '23, July 31. He is 

survived by his widow, 1310 Ave. C, 
Beaumont, Tex. 
THOMAS E. GORDON Ph.B.F.C. '24, Dec. 25, 1967. He is survived by his widow. 
two dau^ters and a son, RONALD M. '59, 2831 S. Park, Joiriin, Mo. 64801. 
Sr. M. JEROME CROWLEY CSC '25. She resided at the Provincial House, Ogden, Utah. 
ALBERT McGANN '25, Aug. 12. He is survived by his widow, 2S00 Topsfield, South Bend, Ind. 46614. 
JOHN F. WENDLAND '25, June 26. John was an active Peoria Red Cross worker for 37 years. He is survived by his widow, 4925 Longview Place, Peoria Heists, III., and two sisters. 
LEO J. SCANLON LL.B. "30, Aug. 3, of a heart attack. He was the former Crawford County (Ohio) prosecutor. He is survived by three daughters, two brothers and a sister. 
JAMES J. HUGHES M.D. '31, Aug. 14. He is survived by his widow, 1000 Urlin Dr., Columbus, Ohio, and by three sons, including JAMES J. HUGHES JR. '59, and a daughter. 
WILLIAM L. WILLIGAN '32, June 26. He is survived by his widow, 25 Francine Ave., Amityville, N.Y. 11701. 
PAUL M. CALLAGHAN '33, June 28. He is survived by his widow, 445 W. Main SL, BeUevue, Ohio 44811. 
LEO W. HODEL LL.B. '33, July 20. He is survived by his son, JOHN L. HODEL '69, 412 Custer Ave., Evanston, III. 60202. 
ANGUS McNEIL '34. He resided in Winchester, Mass. 
ROBERT E. WARD Ph.BC. '34, July 6. He is survived by his widow, 1220 N. Cutri^t, Chillicotbe, 111. 61523. 
GLENN THEODORE DUBS '35, July 21. He is survived by his family, 4670 Frazer NW, Canton, Ohio 44709. 
THOMAS PROCTER '35, July 29. He resided in Elkhart Rev. GILBERT BULFER OSB '36, April 6, 1968. He resided in Peru, III. 
HOWARD O. McINTOSH '42, Jan. 28. He is survived by his widow, 186 N. Hazen St, Paw Paw, Mich. 49079. 
STEPHEN J. WEIGEL '44, May. He is survived by his widow, 42 Cottage, Danielson, Conn. 06339. 
Rev. J. HENNESSY CSC '45, Aug. 1. He taught at King's College, Stonehill College and St Edward's U. He is survived by his brother, John T. Hennessy. 
GEORGE W. STRAKE LL.D. '49, Aug. 6. He was a Houston, Tex., independent oil operator and a retired trustee of the University. He also held an honorary doctorate from the University and four papal decorations from Pope Pius XII. He is survived by his son, GEORGE STRAKE JR. '58, and by his widow, 5050 Woodway, Apt 8-R, Houston, Tex. 77027. 
EDMUND J. WILK 'SO, June 19. He is survived by bis widow and two children, 244 Warren St, Calumet City, III. 60409. 
Sr. M. LORETTA WINGERINC OSF 
M.S. '50. She resided at St Bonaventure Convent, Toledo, Ohio. 
EDWARD HENRY WULF '52, June. He 
is survived by his widow, 120 W. Pokagon 
St, South Bend, Ind. 46617. 
THOMAS A. DORWIN '55, July 26. of cancer. He was assistant advertising manager for Eviniude Motors and a former national water ski champion. 
PATRICK JOSEPH WAGNER '55, Jan. 
28, 1965. 
DANIEL F. MATERNA '61, July 13. He is survived by his widow, 7 Jefferson Dr., Flanders, NJ. 07836. 
HUGO THOMAS RYAN '61, Aug. 7, 1968, in an auto accident in Brazil. He resided in Sao Paulo, Brazil. 

ALUMNI SPEAK 

Alaainl gear ap far 'tt» 
by Leonard H. Skogtund, Preddent, Alumni Association 
With the coming of fall, I am sure the Student Life Council and the ment of alumni membera to this a degree of nostalgia comes over each significant strides made by this group group. The tSeedwaaa <tf our of us. The beginning of a new school in developing its policies and pro­representation will depend not only 
year, coupled with the advent of a cedures to cope with the various on the caliber of members attendbig 
new football season, turns our problems of campus life. This coming the forum meetings but also on an 
infxHrmed and articulate ahmmi 
thoughts again towards ND and sets year will see the beginning of a new 
opinicm on the important issues 
many of us out on a journey for at concept in the form of the University 
affecting the Univeisity. Asthefonmi 
least a brief visit to the campus on an Forum. This body offers a great 
gets under way and the ground rales 
autumn Saturday afternoon. In these opportunity for all the University 
are set, we will make eveiy effort to 
days of change and in view of the family—trustees, administration, 
keep you fully infwmed of the 
nationwide campus turmoil of the faculty, students and alumni—to meet 
progress through the various 
past year, we not only wonder how the on a common ground to exchange cooununicaticm chaimels of the football team will make out but are opinions, viewpoints and suggestions ALUMNUS magazine, regioaal senate bound to have serious thoughts on for the development and betterment meetings and chib meetings. what other significant situations will of ND. Your interest is needed to help us 
occur. The National Alumni Board is effectively develop our part in this Last year we saw the inception of developing procedures for the appoint­program. 

Re-reaaloB 
by James D. Cooney, Executive Secretary, Alumni Association As Ara's legions grace the greensward wives'U see to that), but chances are championship teams of '29 and '30 this fall, other Notre Darners will it will get its share of attention when will line up as the Irish face Southern assemble to do their increasingly former '49 players mass before and Cal on Oct. 18. As theyimite for popular "thing." Fall reunions, co­after the Navy game, Nov. 1. their 40th reunion, they'll relive incidental with football Sattirdays both their two successive victories over 
General Chairman Leon J. Hart 
home and away, have not replaced Howard Jones' U.S.C. teams and h<^ 
predicts a banner turnout as the 
the June affair, but they do offer an the current Irish maintain the tradi­
former national champions assemble 
excellent opportunity for old class­tion. Frank "Noidy" Hoffmann is 
with wives, families and friends to 
mates and their distaff cohorts to reunion general chairman. He can be 
relive deeds of yore and to hear once 
gather for an auld lang syne or two in reached for details at 6602 Karison 
again from the "Master." Undecided 
the stimulating atmosphere of ND Ct, Hyattsville, Md. 20783. The '29 
'49ers should contact Leon at Abex 
football. To date, no less than 13 and '30 squads will honor 73 living autumnal get-togethers are planned. Corporation, 900 West Maple Rd., members and 26 deceased members. 
(See schedule below) Troy, Mich. 49084. Their coach, of course, will not 
Football won't be the only topic of Not to be outdone, the living be present. But the memoiy's discussion at these mini-reunions (the members of ND's famous national indestructible. 

Faff Ctass Hemmiomm 
Fall class reunions immediately after football games have been planned by ND alumni. At press time, the following gatherings were scheduled: 
Purdue (Sept. 27) Army (the night before the game, Friday, Class of 1928 Joe Dorah's Oct. 10, 6:30 p.m.) Lafayette Class of 1933 New York City 
The Vanderbilt Suite Biltmore Hotel 
Michigan State (Oct. 4)  Southern Cal (Oct. 18)  
Class of 1931 (Classes of 1930 and 1932 welcome) Monogram Room Athletic and Convocation Center  Class of 1928Class of 1929  Monogram Room Athletic and Convocation Center Room 221  
Class of 1939Class of 1957  Room 102 O'Shaughnessy Hall Room 105  Class of 1955Class of 1956 Engineering Bldg. JShamrock Room Morris Inn Room 102  
O'Shaughnessy Hall  O'Shaughnessy Hall  
Class of 1960  Shamrock  Room  Class of 1958  Mahogany Room  
Morris Inn  Morris Inn  
Class of 1966  Mahogany  Room  Class of 1966 (Law)  :  Room 105  
Morris Inn  O'Shaughnessy Hall  

ALU3iNi ASK 
CATHOLICITY 
Michael Maas '66 in his letter said: "I heartily endorse the trends of the recent past — I embrace — a search for an authentic God free from prejudices of dogmatic religion." If he really means what he wrote, then ND, a formerly great Catholic University, must now be UNCATH­OLIC in its teachings and a disgrace to her Founders. If, on the other hand, Mr. Maas was only "running off at the mouth," a discerning edi­torial policy would have saved both him and ND unnecessary em­barrassment. 
COLUMN 

The stadent view: fall 'IS9 
by Bill Mitchell '71, a theology major 
from Groton, Conn. 
Notre Dame in the fall of 1969 is a difficult concept to write about. Its present position between the tradi­tional American liberalism of the early Hesburgh years and whatever it is the campus seems to be straining to­ward today requires powers of por­trayal beyond those of this reporter. 
Without too much more presump­tion than it takes to write a column in the first place, though, I can at­tempt to describe ND and to offer opinions on the implication of that description. 
For the most part, I thinic, people in power positions here have recog­nized the important questions facing society in general and this University in particular. It is refreshing to hear them asked: "What are/should be be the essential aims of this Univer­sity? What is/should be the relation­ship between the University and such forces in society as the military or the peace movement? What is/should be the University's involvement in the struggle for human justice? What does/should ND's Christian founda­tion mean in regard to these and other questions of University policies, priorities and practices? 
But perhaps the problem lies even deeper. On page two. Father Hesburgh is quoted as saying, "For 125 years the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College have been dedicated to a common purpose: the Christian education of youth." The current fetish for using the word "Christian" as a would-be synonym for the word "Catholic" may well be the fountainhead for "the search for an authentic God, etc." In that case, Mr. Maas was shortchanged at ND. 
May I suggest to John F. Marchal '58 that he not retire from the fray or the fold. True ND men are never quitters; I'm sure that John is a true 
The responses to these questions at ND run the progression from lip ser­vice to appropriate action, with a not-surprising but still discouraging concentration muddled in the rosy rhetoric of the former category. So far, the leaders with the power at ND have acknowledged the issues but have not come to grips with them as quickly and as fully as should be expected in an intellectual community. Structural changes at ND, for all the hoopla that has been made about such innovations as the lay board of trustees and the Student Life Council, have not resulted in significant changes in University causes or effects. 
Aside from a few very encouraging developments, such as the new program to study nonviolence as a life­style, the preliminary scene this year for anyone interested in change for the better at ND is pretty bleak. The response to this situation, car window stickers notwithstanding, probably is not to "love it or leave." 
I can't really love what Notre Dame is, but I can love what it can be. I have much respect for Father Hesburgh; I agree with him when he says a university should be a "com­munity with a very real commitment to openness, to rationality, to civility." I am impatient to see ND become a community with those commitments, founded on values like justice and charity. 
But as I begin my junior year at ND, I am discouraged by the many discrepancies I see between espounsed ideal and settled-for reality. I wonder how ND black students must feel this September, a month that was to mark the beginning of a much fuller recognition by this University of their ND man. Stay in there and fight, John, for only because of such as you will an enlightened University of Notre Dame reappear. 
Leo C. Heringer '24 
1108 WestviewDr. 
Normal, 111. 61761 
CICERO 

Cicero was bom forty years after the destruction of Carthage. (Your page six, July-August, 1969.) 
Marshall Smelser Professor of History Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
humanity, their culture and their needs. Instead, they have been asked to continue their wait for a black studies program and the reassessment of priorities that will be necessitated by what should be increased appropria­tions for black recruiting efforts. They're not interested in waiting much longer. 
I find it hard to believe that a university committed to openness could close a literary magazine as fine as the Notre Dame Juggler. The administration's failure even to consult with the Student Life Council is surprising in view of their concern for proper channels and due process. 
The nondecision by the Academic Council regarding ND and ROTC last spring was enough to alienate both hawks and doves. Most significantly, I think, it said nothing to the real issues of ND and ROTC. 
I think it can be said without sensationalism that the situation at ND today has made indecisive neutrality a morally futile path. For better or worse, to retain liaisons with ROTC means to support the military. For better or worse, failure to respond to black America has legiti­mized the charge of institutional racism. Not to decide, as Harvey Cox has written, is indeed to decide. 
Notre Dame tomorrow can be better or worse than it is today in its attempt to become a Christian university. The question of who should have the '^ power to determine that fate is cer­tainly one in need of study and debate. But for now at least, the heart of decision-making power obviously nests with the administration, and I hope they decide to decide .. . for the better. 
so years of thunder 
by Tom Sullivan 
History and the fates were kind enough to bestow football on Amer­ica. It is a native game, nurtured and modified through the years to the point where, in its centennial year as an intercollegiate sport, it claims a lion's share of the national spot­light during the months separating August from January. 
Of the past 100 colorful years at least 80 have borne witness to the annual regeneration of the phenome­non known as the Notre Dame spirit. That regeneration usually takes place on a late September afternoon in a football stadium somewhere in the Midwest. It is merely a manifes­tation of a spirit that was actually enkindled by a fiery little man named Sorin who built the University of Notre Dame and who in 1879 stood looking at the ashes that had been the main college building and said, "If it were all gone, I would not give up." Sorin and his band of French and Irish followers were the archi­tects of the spirit that first was mani­fested publicly when the University's students began testing their athletic skills on the various fields of battle. 
To alumni, ND football is an ex­perience that was shared with friends who help sculpture the tradition. To the countless people across the land whose allegiance lies with the Lady of the Golden Dome, it is a symbol of the pride and strength of the under­dog. To this writer, it is a childhood dream that somehow became reality and one of life's treasures. Of the hallowed traditions, the heated rival­ries, the electrifying moments and the powerful personalities spawned by the game of football, none are sur­passed by the golden legends of the Fighting Irish. 
The record book will reveal that the tradition and spirit perpetuated during the past eight decades was actually christened on Nov. 23, 1887. A young fellow named Henry Kuhn captained the Gold and Blue in its first intercollegiate football contest, a 0-8 lesson at the hands of a visiting 
U. of Michigan team. Only four addi­tional games were played from 1887 through 1889, two of which were similar lessons from Michigan. After a two-year discontinuance, football was reinstated on a permanent basis in 1892. 
What has since occurred through the efforts of the young men from the small school in Northern Indiana has filled record books, stadiums and imaginations across the country. It has been the subject of numerous books and articles, sources on which this writer has relied heavily. 
We offer for your pleasure some highlights of Notre Dame's gridiron history. 
1887 

The sport of American football was first introduced to students on the campus of the University of Notre Dame du Lac when a visiting team from the U. of Michigan won an 8-0 contest. The South Benders had accepted an offer by a touring squad of Wolverines to ' indoctrinate an already-existing soccer team in the rules and performances of football. 
1888 

Notre Dame tasted victory for the first time, winning 20-0 over the Harvard School of Chicago. 
1892 After a two-year discontinuance, the sport of football was installed as a permanent part of the life at Notre Dame. 
1896 Frank E. Hering became the first full-time athletic director and coach. He also taught English at the Uni­versity and is widely recognized as the founder of Mother's Day. His record in three seasons was 12-6-1. Awards bearing his name are given to the outstanding individual performers at the conclusion of each spring practice. 
1903 Louis "Red" Salmon, a versatile triple-threat fiillback, became Notre Dame's first football All-American. He was selected by Walter Camp as a third-team back. The team was unbeaten, unscored upon and tied once (8-0-1). 
1905 Notre Dame recorded its largest margin of victory and scored its greatest number of points in a 142-0 win over the American Medical College. 
1906 

The forward pass was legalized and incorporated into the Notre Dame offense for the first time. Harry "Red" Miller, the first of the great football clan that 
would come to the University, arrived on the scene. 
1909 

Utilizing a balanced running and passing attack to beat seven opponents, Notre Dame received its first national recognition. The season highlights were a 6-0 defeat of Pittsburgh and an 11-3 win over Michigan. The team was proclaimed "Champions of the West" and "Red" Miller became the second Gold and Blue AU-American, as a Walter Camp third-team halfback. The Notre Dame Victory March, written by John and Rev. Michael Shea, brothers, was introduced. 
1910 Knute K. Rockne, a Norwegian immigrant from Chicago, enrolled at the University. Notre Dame re­recorded its 100th football victory, 47-0, over Ohio Northern. 
1913 Jesse Harper took over coaching chores from Jack Marks, a strong advocate of the forward pass who had engineered two undefeated seasons. iGus Dorais and Knute Rockne brought the use of the forward pass into prominence by utilizing it to defeat the Army, 35-13, at West Point The Notre Dame shift became widely known and used. 
1916 George Gipp, later to become one of the legendary backs of all time, enrolled at the University. 
f9l8 Knute Rockne took over as head coach from Jesse Harper. His first team won 3, lost 1 and tied 2. 
1919 Rockne's team presented him with his first undefeated, untied season, 9-0-0. 
1920 George Gipp climaxed a superb career with his selec­tion as a Walter Camp first-team, All-American full­back. He contracted a strep infection near the end of the season and died before the end of the year. Dur­ing his four years representing the University on the gridiron, he established numerous school records, some of which are still unsurpassed. His record for total offense produced was finally surmounted last fall by quarterback Terry Hanratty. 
1924 
The "Four Horsemen" were born, following a 13-0 
defeat of the Army. ND sports publicist George 
Strickler came up with the name and Grantland Rice 
bestowed it journalistically on the backfield of Miller, 
Crowley, Stuhldreher and Layden. 
Outlined against a blue-gray October sky, the 
Four Horsemen rode again. 
In dramatic lore they are known as famine, pestilence, destruction and death. These are only aliases. Their real names are Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden. They formed the crest of the South Bend cyclone before which another fight­ing Army team was swept over the precipice this afternoon as 55,000 spectators peered down upon the bewildering panorama spread on the green plain below. 
The "Seven Mules," the offensive line led by captain and center Adove Wolsh, also received wide acclaim. Notre Dame was recognized as national champions for the first time and notched the school's 200th football win, 34-3, over Georgia Tech. 
1925 In the University's only bowl appearance the Gold and Blue pinned a 27'10 Rose Bowl defeat on Stanford. 
// was in the imd-1920s that the name "Fighting Irish" was given to the athletic teams of Notre Dame. Orig­inally the nickname had been a form of derision aimed at the various ethnic groups represented on the team, and at one point the University's administration had requested that it not be used. In time, however, the nickname came into full use by sportswriters throughout the country. 
1928 

Rockne's team compiled his worst overall record, 5-4-0, and scored a total of only 99 points. Carnegie Tech inflicted the first home defeat since 1905, 27-7. More than 120,000 people at Chicago's Soldiers' Field saw the Irish beat Navy 7-0. 
1929 

Rockne coached from a wheelchair and his team went on to a second national title and a 9-0-0 record. The team played every game on the road because of stadium construction on campus and thus garnered the nickname "The Ramblers." More than 112,000 people jammed the Coliseum to witness USC's demise, 13-12. 
1930 

In what turned out to be his final season, Rockne coached Notre Dame to still another national champion­ship, 10-0-0. Notre Dame Stadium was dedicated as the home team whipped Navy 26-2. 
1931 

A plane crash on the Kansas plains on March 31 took Knute Rockne to his death. In 13 seasons his teams won 105, lost 12 and tied 5, making him the winningest coach in football history. A nation mourned at the death of a Norwegian immigrant who made his name building men on a small Midwestern college campus. Rockne's former superior, Jesse Harper, came out of retirement to assume the post of athletic director and his top assistants, Heartly "Hunk" Anderson and Jack Chevigny, took over as cocoaches. Notre Dame went 6-2-1 in its first season without Rockne at the helm and played before the first capacity crowd in Notre Dame Stadium (54,934) in a 16-14 loss to USC. 
1933 

The University experienced its first losing football season since the sport was adopted. The offensive out­put of 33 points was the fewest produced by any Notre Dame team. Anderson, who had taken sole control of the team when Chevigny left, stepped down following the season with an overall record of 16-9-2. 
1934 

Elmer Layden, "the thin man" and one of the famed "Four Horsemen," took over as head coach. His first team won 6 and lost 3. 
1935 

The highlight of a 7-1-1 season was the 18-13 upset of Ohio State in what has been voted by sportswriteis as one of the all-time football thrillers. The Fighting Irish, led by halfbacks Andy Pilney and Bill Shakespear, scored all of their points in the final quarter and two TD's in the final minutes. 
1938 

Victory on the football field came for the 300th time in a 19-0 win over Minnesota. The Irish were national champion contenders going into the final game with use . The Trojans spoiled a perfect record but Notre Dame (8-1-0) was designated national champs despite the loss. 
1940 

Following a 7-2-0 season, Elmer Layden stepped down 
as head coach after compiling a 47-13-3 record in seven 
seasons. 
1941 

Frank Leahy, a 180-pound tackle for Knute Rockne's 1928 and 1929 teams and a highly successful Boston College mentor, took over as head coach. His first team won 8 and tied I. 
1943 

Leahy's team presented him with his first national 
championship and the school's fourth. The team went 
9-1-0, defeated only by Great Lakes Naval Base in the 
final minute, 19-14. Angelo Bertelli, Notre Dame's first 
T-formation quarterback, capped a brilliant career by 
becoming the school's first recipient of the Heisman 
Trophy, given to the best player of the year. Another 
of the Miller clan, Creighton, won Ail-American honors. 
1944 

Leahy was called to military service and Ed McKeever replaced him for a season, coaching the team to an 8-2-0 record. The team's only defeats came at the hands of the powerful service academies. Army, 59-0, and Navy, 32-13. 
1945 

Hugh Devore filled in as coach during Leahy's second 
year of leave and led the Irish to a 7-2-1 record and repeat losses to the service academies. 
1946 

The Master returned and his team won a second na­tional title for him. The highlight of the season was the 0-0 confrontation with Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside (Blanchard and Davis) of Army. Tackle George Con­ner received the Outland Trophy as the outstanding college lineman. 
1947 

Notre Dune won its second national championship in succession under Leahy, with a 9-0-0 record. Quarter­back John Lujack became the University's second Heis­man Tn^ y recipient A young back named Terry Brennan tan the opening kickoff back 97 yards for a touchdown against Army in the final clash of the two football powers until 196S. 
1949 

Leahy> fourth national championship climaxed a string of four successive seasons without a loss. End Leon Hart w<Mi the Heisman Trophy. 
1951 

Notte Dame won its 400th football victory, 12-7 over North Canriina. 
1953 

Following a 9-0-1 season, Leahy retired for reasons of health. His teams won 87, lost 11 and tied 9 in 11 seascms. Halfback John Lattner won the Heisman Trophy and the Maxwell Trophy for the second time. Freshman Coach Terry Brennan was named to succeed Leahy. 
1956 

After two successful seasons under Brennan, the Irish skidded to the worst overall record, 2-8. Despite the dismal season, which at times saw as many as six sophomores in the starting lineup, quarterback Paul Homung won football's highest individual honor, the Heisman Trophy. 
1957 

Notre Dame hi^ilighted a 7-3 season with a stunning upset of: mighty (^ahoma at Norman. The victory shattered OU's 47-game winning streak, college foot­ball's longest, idiich had begun following the Irish's 1952 victtMy over the Sooners. 
1958 

Teny Brennan left Notre Dame and the coaching pro­fession fcrflowing a 6-4-0 season. His teams compiled a 32-18-0 record in five seasons. Professional coach Joe Kuharich was named to succeed Brennan. 
I960 

Under Kuhaiich, Notre Dame matched its previous low ebb of: 2-8. 
1961 

On a controversial roughing call by game officials, Joe Perkowski was given a second chance with no time remaining and kicked a •42-yard field goal to beat fav<Hcd Syracuse 17-15. The Orange were led that day by the fabulous Ernie Davis. 
1962 

Ftdlowing a 5-5 season, Kuharich resigned with an overall five-year record of 17-23. Hugh Devore was agidn tapped as interim coach and his 1963 team went 2-7. 
1964 
Notre Dame hired Ara Parseghian, who came to the Fighting Irish from old rival Northwestern. While at the Evanston campus, Parseghian coached his teams to four victories over Notre Dame. In his first season he trans­formed the 2-7 team of the previous year into a national contender. The Irish were rated number one in the nation going into the final contest with USC, and the Trojans ended the comeback story of the year with a 20-17 upset in the final 93 seconds. Quarterback John Huarte became Notre Dame's sixth Heisman Trophy recipient. 
1966 
Notre Dame won its ninth national championship with a 9-0-1 record. The highlight of the season, and pos­sibly of the century, was an epic 10-10 tie with Mich­igan State. Linebacker Jim Lynch won the Maxwell Trophy. 
1967 
Notre Dame won its 500th victory, 36-3 over Georgia Tech. 
SOME NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL RECORDS OF INTEREST 
To date, Notre Dame has won 508, lost 140 and tied 37, a winning percentage of .769, which is the highest during the first 100 years of college football. Only five teams have more wins than the Fighting Irish. 
Knute Rockne, recently voted the top coach in the first 
. too years of college football, had a winning percentage of .881 to rank number one among college coaches. Frank Leahy's .864 winning percentage ranks number two. 
Ara Parseghian ranks 10th among active coaches, with a winning percentage of .699. 
Notie Dame has won the national championship nine times, more than any other school. 
Notre Dame has produced six Heisman Trophy winners, more than any other school. 
Notre Dame has produced more than 100 All-Americans, 57 of whom were consensus. Only three schools have had more consensus Ail-Americans. 
Notre Dame has bad 19 undefeated seasons and 10 un­defeated and untied seasons. Only two schools have had more undefeated and untied seasons than Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame teams have won six offensive and two de­fensive statistic records. 
•Mr. Franeis P. Clark Head. Microfilming & Photo. LaD. Memorial Library Notre Dame. Ind^45b&b 
m. 
V" 

Phntii: Dirk Slrwiul 
Some guys \\i3l sleep anyplace! 







