The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

'ME D/IME LIERARY 
NOTRE DAME 
.^^^ 

* the univemty 
Willi the beginning of a iww year tliere emerge hopes and plans of days ahead. Some are in the immediate future^ ofliers are in the long range view. But with aU^ there's attaclied an importance. A university is no different, nor are its alumni. Notre Dame, "because of the untiring efforts of its entire community, looks to the new year ivith confidence as it launches a new era of building and programs. 
great new surge 8 
Taking a prominent place in the Uni­versity's plans for tlie year ahead, tlie Alumni Association will realise the benefits of continuing education as its ovon center's doors open to them this spring. 

program and building tal<e sliape i; 
How well tlie University performs on tlie gridiron in tlie fall of '66 will be the concern once again of millions of loyal ND fans from coast to coast. Wanted is the play-by-play, game-by-game account of all the action. There to provide it, via TV, radio and tlie written loord, are the men in the big, glass box. 

atop the action 14 
Alumni President's Lelter....rear cover 
Classes 29 Low School—44 
Clubs .... 18 Potpourri 2 

Editorial 1 Sports 46 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 735 NORTH 57 AVE. 
DIRECTORS TO 1969 


ADMISSIONS OMAHA, NEB. 68132 HONORARY PBESIDENT 
W . lANCASTE?. SMITH '60 
1050 N. GREEN BAY RD. WllUAM D. KAVANAUGH '27 lAKE FOREST, 111. 6004S 3445 ORDWAY ST., N.W. 

THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 
DIRECTORS TO I9B8 
WASHINGTON, D.C 20016 

BE8T8AND D. COUGHUN, M.D. '26 STUDENT AFFAIRS 

PSESIDENT JOSEPH H. CAREY '32 
15965 BRIAECUFF WIUIAM F. KERWIN, JE. VO EEJrRAND D. COUGKIIN, WD. '26 
BUDGET VICE-PRESIDENT 
DETROIT, MICH. 48221 1108 EMIUE ST. 


16 THORNDEU DR. WIIUAM V. CUDDY '52 
GREEN BAY, WIS. 54301 

ST. lOUlS. MO. 63117 THOMAS W. CARROtl 'it 

VICE-PRESIDENT 
17 CARITON RD. 

RICHARD A. ROSENTHAl '54 HERBERT M. SAMPSON 'itl HUTCHINSON, KAN. 67501 15670 HEARTHSTONE DR. 
WIlllAM V. CUDDY -52 VICE-PRESIDENT PUB. RE(. AND DEVElOPMENr PIACEMENT AMBROSE F. DUDIEY, JR. ••i3 

MISHAWAKA, IND. 46544 JAMES t ARMSTRONG '25 
li s RAIPH AVE. 519 SUSSEX RD. 
lEO V. TURGEON, M.D. '42 


EXECUTIVE SECRETARY 
WHITE PIAINS, N.Y. lOiOS WYNNEWOOD, PA. 19D94 
SUITE 107 DIRECTORS TO 1967 

HERBERT M. SAMPSON 'SO CHARIES J. PAnSRSON '47 CRENSHAW MEDICAL CENTER THOMAS P. CARNEY '37 ATHIETIC 73 MT. WAYNE AVE. 3731 STOCKER ST. CONTINUING EDUCATION REUGION AND CITIZENSHIP FRAMINGHAM. MASS. 01702 lOS ANGEIES. CAIIF. 90008 
/ 
H 

• This mogazlne Is,published M-monlhly by the Unlversify oF 
Noire Oame, Notre Dame, Ind Entered oi second-closs matter -Pet. I, 1939, at the post office, Notre Dome, Ind., iindcr Iho 'octof Aug. 24, 191Z 
JAMES E ARMSTRONG '25 EDITOR JOHN P. THURIN '59 MANAGING EDITOR 
P. MICHAEl BASCIE '6S EDITORIAL ASSISTANT 
BRUCE HARIAN '49 PHOTOGRAPHER 

CO 
EDWARD E. HERRMANN ART CONSULTANT 
(0 
JAMES E. MURPHY '47 PUBLIC INFORMATION 
JOHN H. JANOWSKl 'SI 
PRODUCTION COORDINATOS 

Forty years ago, January laiife, !lf"pro3uce^^Trsr3iIuMNUS as editor. (That was undoubtedly the peak year of my self-confidence. At this moment, I have neither tears nor beer to cry 
them into, rather . . .) I am appedled 
at the time span the figures indicate. 
I am even more appalled at the 
crowded history of those years, 
and the futility of trying to indicate 
even the highlights with any justice 
or balance. And yet, it is impossible 
to avoid some references. 
A comparison of the University's 
presidents is difficult. Each in his time made a major contribution to Notre Dame under the evident pa­tronage of Our Lady. Father Matthew WaJsh who hired me had the job of recognizing the new demands on a university in the wake of World War I. Father diaries O'DonneTl in his first months of administration, against a background of scholarly and poetic priestliness, enjoyed the contrasting traumas in 1929 of a na­tional football championship and the stock market crash. He went on to become an outstanding administrator during the critical era of economic adversity and the tragedy of Knute Rockne's death. Father John O'Hara brought the unusual talents of a great priest and a great administrator to the task of further advancing Notre Dame's progreims in the post-depression yeeirs, and, later, yielding a major campus career to the call of the Church that took him into the spiritual challenges of World War n and then on to the red hat. Father Hugh O'Donnell, whose depth of dedication to the proper identity of Notre Dame was the hallmark of his entire career, was suddenly faced with the e-xigencies of World War n and the unprecedented readjust­ments it imposed on the campus. The emergence of the Uni­versity from these years without a scar upon the Golden Image, and with a lasting sense of new strength, are an increasingly significant monument to him. He was a particular patron of alumni, and alumni progress was a prime concern among the many unforeseen challenges that faced him. Father John Cav­anaugh, his background dotted with much lay student and alumni experience, came to the presidency with the new challenge of academic achievement that faced all colleges and universities cifter World War II and the influx of the serious G.I. students. His was the difficult task of turning the administrative back on the past and shaping a new campus to meet the new education for a new leadership. A major contribution was the creation of a resource pool of young religious from whom his successor was selected, Father Hesburgh. 
Forty volumes of the ALUMNUS have made an effort to give the alumni the multiple highlights of these administrations. 
Another area of constant growth has been my humility. I have relied, with increasing reason and increasing success, on the participation of administration, faculty, students and alumni in the multiple ex­tensions of alum­ni life. I tfiink primarily of the 
editorial Alumni Board. AS Lank Smith becomes the honorary presi­



comment 
dent, and George Bariscillo, Paul Fenlon, and Mort Goodman retire, their per­sonal contributions to the advancement of the Association can never be adequately recorded. And this has been the annual feeling as a senior quartet of devoted leaders have left this strong and constructive channel of alumni contact with the University. Their satisfactions, as must my own sense of obligation, derive from the reflection of great and continuous alumni progress in all our programs. 
Fundamentally, in the 40 years, the Association has passed for the better from the hands of a brash newly graduated Alumni Secretary, to the thousands of helpful hands of the 37,000 alumni who have been the living proof of the progress of Notre Dame, you! 
'Mk-^.. 
•^

tmg. -o^^ 
MEDICAL SCHOOL: 
Political RSVP 
The University extended the invi­
tation, and the 1967 session of the 
Indiana General Assembly just 
might accept At stake: a $100 mil­
lion state-owned and -operated medi­
cal center that may eventually be 
located on the Notre Dame campus. 
A volunteer citizen group, the Committee on Higher Education in Northern Indiana, has been cam­paigning to have the center located in northern Indiana. O. C. Car­michael Jr., chairman of the board of Associates Investment Co., is head of the committee. He also is a mem­ber of the University's Board of Lay Trustees. 
The University soon joined the campaign with an offer of land, an entire floor of the new Memorial Li­brary, and computer and science facilities if the state were to select the University as the site. Educa­tional and research exchanges also were hinted at, with contractual arrangements offered for use of the new Center for Continuing Edu­cation. 
Although a special committee of the legislature will review the pro­posal this year, final action awaits next year's session of the General Assembly. 
"The most direct effect on the University would be to stimulate our 
College of Science," explained Asso­ciate Vice-President for Academic Affairs Dr. Thomas Stewart, looking toward Notre Dame's selection as the site. 
Beyond that, and even more im­portant, would be a twofold com­munity effect First, the influx of more than 200 professional persons would widen the cultural horizons of 
the area. Secondly, the economic boom would be tremendous. Com­mented Dr. Stewart regarding the latter, "the University wants to co-
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1961 FEBRUARY 

operate in developing the community 
in which it exists." 
More than a medical school, the 
center would offer medical education 
from preprofessional levels to grad­
uate research programs. Cooperat­
ing with area hospitals, smd eventu­
ally with a'hospital of its own, the 
center would furnish internships 
and residencies for doctors, develop 
new medical techniques, and set up 
clinics in surroimding counties. 
In active cooperation with Notre 
Dame, but in no way a part of the 
University, the center conceivably 
might bear the name Northern In­
diana Medical Center at Notre Dame. 
TOWN-GOWN: 

Not by Light Alone... 
Additional street lighting will curb attacks on Notre Dame students by South Bend youths, but it will not ease the underiying tension which prompted the attacks last fall. Now, plans Eire under way for a student-staffed and -operated youth center in the heart of the problem area to improve these conditions. 
Last October, WaUy Davis, a se­nior from Williamsville, N.Y., knew such a youth center could be a true cure; he passed the idea to ND-South Bend relations commissioner John McCuen and civil rights com­missioner Ed McFadden. 
"Investigating the people of this area and the problems of the teen­agers made it apparent that we should, first of all, get to know them on a person-to-person basis, and secondly, give them some meaning­ful activities during the evening," explained McCuen. 
Original plans for the center in­volved renting a house or vacant store within the critical area. How­ever, not one of over twenty pro­spective landlords contacted by Mc­Cuen would rent the property for the intended use. Thus, the students were forced to turn to civic groups for funds to purchase a desired site. 
The results were slow: one service group requested three months to make a study, another had its monies tied to a similar center on the other side of the city. 
At this point, McCuen relates, Dick Rosenthal '54, president of the St Joseph Bank and Trust Co. of South Bend and newly elected member of the Alumni Association's board of directors, joined with South Bend Tribune managing editor John Powers '52 in a private effort to seek support for the center. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY nU FEBRUARY 
Recently, however, the owner of the sought-after property has agreed to rent a portion of his building to be used for the center. "We can rent sn old store, and get going in a lim­ited way," McCuen said. He hopes tliis meager beginning will attract community support to continue the center's activities. 
The center will have activities "mostly recreational and social in scope," with the South Bend YMCA cooperating in establishing many ac­tivities and offering additional facil­ities. If additional support is forth­coming, the center wiE have a full-time director, but will otherwise be staffed by Notre Dame students during the school year, and by other college students residing in South Bend during the summer. 
McCuen foresees the center becom­ing "an integral part of community services," cooperating with such fed­eral programs as ACTION, Opera­tion Headstart and STEP. The latter would be especially beneficial to the main group the students se ^ to help: the unemployed high-school graduate or dropout. STEP provides guidance, vocational training and employment services. 
Other community service groups, induding Notre Dame's Neighbor­hood Study Help Program, also could benefit from the facilities, McCuen said. 
BOARD ELECTIONS: 

Counsel for the Alumni 
In the heaviest balloting recorded, Notre DEune alumni elected four new members to the Alumni Asso­ciation's board of directors: William 
F. Kerwin Jr. '48, William D. Kava­naugh '27, Richard A. Rosenthal '54 and Dr. Leo V. Turgeon Jr. '42. The four began their three-year terms with the bocurd's winter meet­ing on campus January 20-22. 
The new boEU^ members come from both ends of the coimtry, with Kavanaugh manager of the Ameri­can Cyanamid Co.'s Washington, 
D.C. office and Dr. Turgeon a Los Angeles physician. Kerwin is vice-president and general manager of the Green Bay Warehouses, Inc. of Green Bay, Wis., while Rosenthal is president of the St. Joseph Bank and Trust Co. in South Bend. 
Suggestions for nominees for the 1967 ballot wUI be solicited soon from Club presidents and Class secretcuries. 
Thomas P. Carney '37 succeeded 
W. Lancaster Smith '50 as president of the Association at the January meeting. Smith, a Dallas attorney, will hold the post of honorary presi­dent for 1966. Carney is vice-presi­dent of G. D. Searle and Co., a drug firm in Chicago. 
Also completing their three-year terms on the board are Geoige A. Bariscillo Jr. '44, a Deal Park, N.J. attorney; Paul I. Fenlon '19, a re­tired professor of English at Notre Dame; and Los Angeles attorney Morton R. Goodman '30. 
Continuing as directors of the As­sociation Eire Dr. Bertrand D. Coughlin '26, St. Louis, Mo.; Wil­liam V. Cuddy '52, White Plains, N.Y.; Herbert M. Sampson '50, Omaha, Neb.; Joseph H. Carey '32, Detroit, Mich.; Thomas W. Carroll '51, Hutchinson, Kan.; Ambrose F. Dudley Jr. '43, Wynnewood, Pa.; and Charles J. Patterson '47, Farm­inghEim, Mass. 
FOUNDATION: 
In the Beginning... 
Culmination and commencement 

axe the bjrwords of the Notre Dame 
Foundation, as an early conclusion 
to Challenge H is forecast and new 
programs are inaugurated to foster 
more indi\adualized contact wt h 
alumni. 
With the Ford Foundation's June 

30, 1966 deadline stiU months away, 
current figures point to attaining 
Challenge II's $20 miUion goal in 
the near future. The hoped-for early 
completion rides on a crest of 
alumni participation which now 
runs close to the 50 percent mark. 
The average alumni gift to the pro­
gram totals just under $500. 
A portion of the Challenge H funds, however, will come from the citizens and businesses of St. Joseph Valley, the communities surround­ing Notre Dame. This appeal to the University's neighbors, under the name "Valley of Vision," will be for §1.25 million specifically ear­marked to aid in construction of the §8 million Athletic and Convocation Center. One-sixth of the Center's cost will come from the community because of the vast economic and cultural benefits the Center ^vill re­turn to the area; when completed, the Center wiU offer the second largest indoor seating capacity in the state (12,500), in addition to a second large arena for expositions of all kinds. 
Valley of Vision is a one-month campaign to be concluded February 10, and is directed by General Chairman O. C. Carmichael Jr., chairman of the board of Associates Investments Co. and a member of the University's Board of Lay Trus­tees. Frank E. SuUivan '49, gen­eral agent for American United Life Insurance Co. in South Bend, is co-ch2drman of the campaign. 
Even as the University's second consecutive capital growth cam­paign enters its final phases, the Foundation seeks to increase its per­sonal contact with alumni through two "dass agent" programs, one centered aroimd the Annual Alumni Fund and the second oriented to deferred giving. Under these new programs, each class has a volun­teer alumnus for each program, ap­proved by the Class president and appointed by the University Presi­dent. 
The class agents for the Annual Alumni Fund, cooperating -with the Alumni Association and the Foun­dation, will contact individuals,in their respective classes, emphasiz-
THE PRESIDENT A whole new vision 

ing the importance of regular an­nual gifts to the University. Alumni Fund Director Dennis Troester '57 commented that the fund is the "backbone" of University support, since its founding in 1941 predates the establishment of the Foundation itself. Although alumni pledges to Challenge n are listed as alumni fund contributions for the year in which they are received, a large portion of the alumni fail to sup­port the University during the other years. In this way, the An­nual Alumni Fund is a method for an alumnus to supplement his Chal­lenge n pledge. 
The class agent program coordi­nated with deferred giving, on the other hand, works closely with the Foundation to achieve maximum participation of class members in bequest programs, explained Frank 
G. Kelly '50, assistant director for deferred giving. This offers alumni a means of contributing to the Uni­versity without necessarily decreas­ing their current income. Instead, portions of one's estate are ear­marked for Notre Dame. Two years ago the University moved into the area of deferred, or planned, giv­ing; the returns have increased four­fold. The class agent for deferred giving will aid in informing his classmates of the advantages and benefits of estate planning, as well as the numerous ways Notre Dame can be included in the plans. 
Through Class Agent Don Tiede­mann and Class President Dick O'Connor, the Class of '41 has di­rected an effort toward maximimi participation in a bequest program established in conjunction with their 25-year remiion in June, 1966. 
lANGUAGE RESIDENCES: 

New Experiment 
The opportunity for Notre Dame 
students to live and master a foreign 
language, previously an experience 
available only to members in the 
Sophomore-Year-Abroad program, 
may become a reahty if the pro­
posal to establish foreign language 
dorms and houses is approved by 
the University. 
The international venture, pro­moted by a nine-man student-faculty committee, gained sizeable momen­tum in January when strong stu­dent support for the program was voiced in answer to a survey con­ducted by the committee. 
Under the current proposal, dorms and houses would be divided accord­ing to language: French, German, Spanish and Russian. HaHs would be open only to juniors. The off-campus houses would admit only seniors. Both halls and houses would be staffed by a limited number of returned Innsbruck students, na­tive South Americans, those who have traveled in Russia and have a Russian proficiency and, in the fu­ture, returnees from the French pro­gram at Angers. Participjmts in the language dorm experiment would not have to be language majors. Actually, nonlanguage majors are the primary target of the project. 
Members of the Committee on Language Residences include: Dr. George Shuster, assistant to the president; Dr. Robert Nimer, mod­em language department head; Arthur Evans, French professor; Walter Langford, Spanish professor and chief Peace Corps olBcer on campus; Albert Wimmer, German professor; and Joseph Gatto, profes­sor of Russian. Three student mem­bers of the committee are senior Jerry Kohl and juniors Tom Tim­mons and Tom Malone. 
MICROBIOLOGY: 

New Venture 
The establishment of a graduate department of microbiology at the University and the appointment of Prof. Morris Pollard as its head were announced in January. Both actions become effective July 1. 
The new academic department will be concerned with several as­pects of microbial biology and will offer graduate programs leading to the master's degree and doctorate. It wiU also engage in an extensive research program through the Uni-
ALUMNUS JANUARY \966 FEBRUARY 

versity's Lobund Laboratory, a pioneer and world leader in the use of germfree animals in medical and biological investigations. 
Prof. PollEird, who has been di­rector of the Lobund Laboratory since 1961, was named to a three-year term as head of the new micro, biology department. Pollard, who has also been serving as associate head of Notre Dame's biology de­partment, is a virologist engaged in several cancer research projects. He was educated at Ohio State Uni­versity, Virginia Polytechnic Insti­tute and the University of Califor­nia at Berkeley where he received his doctorate in 1950. 
According to Dean Frederick D. Rossini of Notre Dame's College of Science, the creation of the depart­ment of microbiology and the asso­ciation of the Lobund Laboratory with it "will result in complete in­tegration of our research work in germfree life with our program of graduate education in science at Notre Dame." 
Another important result, Rossini said, is that the department of bi­ology proper "wiU be free to con­centrate on the development of other areas of life science appropriately selected to fit the resources of our institution and the desires and moti­vation of the faculty involved." 

SYMPOSIUM: 



Ways and Means 
The University in January an­nounced plans for a Conference on Poverty and the Aging to be held at its Center for Continuing Educa­tion April 11-12. 
The announcement was made by Dr. George N. Shuster, assistant to the president of Notre Dame and chairman of the conference which will be jointly sponsored by the Uni­versity and the Golden Years Foun­dation of New York City. 
Shuster said approximately 50 nationally recognized experts, rep­resentatives of government agencies. 
oflScials of private organizations in­terested in the problems of poverty and specialists from several uni­versities will participate in the two-day meeting. Its program has been designed "to develop recommenda­tions and guidelines for governmen­tal agencies in their approach to the problem of poverty and the aged," he said. 
"The Notre Dame conference will consider possible ways and means — national, state and local — which may be adopted for maximum em­ployment of the aging and for rais­ing the income level of the total elderly population. It will also ex­plore the possibilities of implement­ing existing programs in order to provide and improve the housing and living arrangements of the elderly. A third topic on the con­ference agenda is the social im­poverishment of the elderly. Ways win be sought to utilize the vastly extended leisure time of the elderly while simultaneously sustaining the dignity of the elderly person in the community. 

OLD FACES, NEW PLACES 
REV. GLENN R. BOARMAN CSC REV. JOSEPH D. BARRY CSC With President Powers and Dean Bergin. Amid the HOC at Hoban High. 
Perhaps no other group of men on campus come to chaplain for 40 Holy Cross Brothers and 1100 stu­know quite so many, ever so well, in so short a time dents, counseling, administering the sacraments and as the chaplains. By their very mission they affect teaching classes in Christian living and marriage. the lives of almost every student at Notre Dame via the confessional, the classroom, a break in the cafe­"In short, from being almost completely taken up teria or in a hospital. Two such men were Fathers with spiritual problems, I find my time now almost Joe Barry and Glenn Boarman during the 50's and taken up with financial problems," recently explained early ycEirs of the 1960's. Their faces, familiar to Father Boarman. The former rector of Breen-Phillips, thousands of alumni, are now seen in new places. Morrissey and St. Edward's Halls and later. Univer­
sity chaplain. Father Boarman now is the director of Father Barry, whose beginnings as a chaplain are development at the University of Portland. His im­found in the ranks of the 157th Army Regiment and mediate task is the "Once in a Century" $20.5 million whose travels included the war-torn grounds of capital fund campaign. A challenge? "More than that Ragusa, Angio and Dachau, continues his inimitable . . . possibly an even greater one than those I faced 
ways at Archbishop Hoban High School in Akron. 
at Notre Dame." There, where "life has begun at 60," Fr. Barry is 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
STADIUM JOE: 


Another Chapter Added 
After 35 years Joe Dierickx, fond­ly known as "Stadium Joe" to thou­sands of Notre Dame alumni and friends, has stepped down from his yeeir-round duties as superintendent of the "house that Rockne buUt." 
It marks the retirement of the friendly Belgian-bom caretake r who'll not soon be forgotten. Still very present in the stadium, and there to stay for years to come, are the many pictures and mementos Joe has received through the years. "And I still have my keys," quipped Joe. "Father Wilson — vice-presi­dent for business affairs — thinks I may want to come out and look the place over and see if they're handling it right" 
The 80-year-old Dierickx, who married Marie Rockne, sister of Knute, came to Notre Dame in the spring of '31 to assume the custodi­anship of the stadium. Before then, he was a circus aerialist and strong­man. A knee injury sustained in the great 1918 Indiana circus train wreck, however, forced his departure from the arena. At 80, "Stadium Joe" is in remarkably good health and "from the waist up, still as strong as ever." 
Joe's masterful care of the football grounds has led many to believe that the ND stadium is the finest in the country. But Joe is the first to admit that it gets rather difficult to main­tain toward the end of the season, especially when there are back-to­back home games. 
Joe recalls a time or two when the elements have given him anxious moments. One such occasion was in the late 30's. 'It was the last game of the season and that Friday night we had more than six inches of 
JOE DIERICKX His and the Rock's house. 

snowfall. The next morning Jesse 
Heirper — then athletic director — 
called me and told me to go down­
town and get as many men as I could 
to dear off the field. In those times 
of the depression it was easy to get 
hdp. So, I went downtown and hired 
100 men at 40 cents an hour to shov­
el snow. At game time we were 
ready." 
Joe maintains that he can measure 

the excitement of the game by the 
amount of refuse "the morning 
after. If it's been a thriller then 
we'll usually shovel out more than 
five or six tons of confetti, news­
papers and streamers. But it's fun­
ny. We don't find too many pro­
grams. People like to save them." 
Maintaining the stadium is a year-round job. During the football season Joe and a crew of 20 men have spent most of their time keep­ing the stadium dean and repairing the field's turf. After the fall home-stand, Dierickx and his full-time crew of five repair and paint the stadium seats, recondition the play­ing fidd, service the press box and maintain the many utilities present 
Surprisingly, Joe has seen only a few minutes of home football action. Keeping the stadium operating at peak performance is a 60-minute job. 
More than 50 persons from the University's administration and ath­letic department joined members of the stadium and fidd house main­tenance crews to honor "Stadium Joe" in early January. Presenting him with a monogram blanket and jacket, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC expressed the appredation of "Joe's many friends for the years of faith­ful service to Notre Dame." 
And virith one last remark by Fr. Wilson, "to keep up-to-date with his Monogram Club dues," the new su­perintendent emeritus of the stadium added another chapter to the many others that form the long tradition of Notre Dame. 
GLEE CLUB: 

Traveling Singalong 
Traveling squads are not restricted to athletic teams at Notre Dame. The singing Irish travd throughout the country as extensivdy as the Fighting Irish, this fall making ap­pearances throughout the Midwest and Ezist Co£ist while a sweep of the Southeastern USA has been scheduled for Easter. 
This year's tour season, the 28th under the direction of "Dean" Danid 
H. Pedtke, got under way Nov. 24 in Hammond, Ind., where the Glee Club 
AIL THE DEAN'S MEN Another opening, another show. 
performed a matinee and evening show at the Civic Auditorium, join­ing the bill of Phil Ford and Mimi Hines, a well-known tdevision and nightclub comedy team. 
Two days later, the choral group boarded a bus for New York City and a three-day stay at the New York Hilton. While there, they sang for the luncheon guests at the hotel on Thanksgiving Day. After a side trip for a concert in Wayne, N.J., the Glee Club moved on to Provi­dence, where, under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Club of Rhode Island and Southeastern Massachu­setts, they presented two perfor­mances before more than 1500 persons. 
En route back to the University, the dub stopped over for a concert in Mt. Vernon, Ohio. Two weeks later they returned to Ohio, this time to Clevdand, for joint weekend con­cert with the girls' glee dub of St John's College. 
Wherever they fravd, the Glee Club finds an audience of Notre Dame alumni, often it is a Notre Dame Club that sponsors a per­formsmce. 
Their winter tour complete, the dub is plcuining an Easter tour through the Southeastern states, with performances already booked in Louisiana and Florida. Other spring trips have been slated to the Detroit-Grosse lie area and to Syd­ney, Ohio. 
Responsibility for the season's concert tour to indude management of the finandal involvements rests soldy on the shoulders of the stu­dent officers who are this year: Robert B. Harrigan, president from Minneapolis; Danid L. Curry, busi­ness manager from Logan, W. Va.; and William R. LaFleur, publidty manager from Lorain, Ohio. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19M FEBRUARY 




TOPSIDE BRIEFS 
President on Defense Board 
The Defense Department in January appointed Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh CSC, president of the Uni­versity, to the National War College Board of Con­sultants. Father Hesburgh was one of four members appointed to fill vacancies caused by the expiration of three-year terms of other members. The consultant board meets once a year for two days. The college's students are senior officers in the U.S. Armed Forces. 

Industry and Labor Leaders to Meet 
More than 500 Midwestern industrial executives and labor leaders are expected to attend the University's 14th annual Union-Management Conference, Feb. 25. The conference theme, "Recent Trends in Industrial Relations," has been planned to take note especially of the significant body of new legislation recently enacted by Congress which applies directly to indus­trial relations. Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald CSC is founder and director of the conference. 

On-Campus UN 
Delegates from the People's Republic of China (Red China) have been circulating propaganda around Notre Dame urging their country's admission to the United Nations as "true representatives of the Chinese people." It is no subversive operation, however; it is part of the preparations for a student-operated Little United Nations Assembly (LUNA) scheduled March 8-10. Patterned simflar to a mock political conven­tion, LUNA is an academic venture aimed at acquaint­ing students with the operations of the true UN. In addition to the issue of Red China's admission, the student delegates will consider the trouble in Cuba, the Congo and Viet Nam. 

Murals Restored 
The 12 Columbus murals which line the halls of the Administration Building once again have the fresh, bright look they displayed when originally done by the Italian artist Luigi Gregori in the early 1880's. For more than five months. University art professor Stanley Sessler cleaned and restored the murals. After stripping the walls, Sessler had to replace old, faded colors with their bright original hues. 

More than Tolerance 
The Indiana Freemasons picked up their official publication, Indiana Freemason, in December and read an article by a Roman Catholic priest from Notre Dame. This unprecedented article, written by Rev. John A. O'Brien, a research professor of theology at the University, was titled, "Let Us Lower the Draw­bridge." Fr. O'Brien wrote: "In the past, tolerance between people of different faiths was the ideal aimed at. That now must be replaced by esteem and affec­tion. Otherwise, none of us is worthy of the name Christian or Jew. . . ." 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 


Map New Department 
Personnel and courses are being readied now for the opening of a geography department next fall in the CoUege of Arts and Letters. As a part of the University's overall effort to improve ND's social and behavioral sciences, the new department will empha­size the cultursd aspects of the science as opposed to physical geography wWch normally concentrates on maps and geological studies. Its first-year courses wm be survey in nature and scheduled primarily for sophomores. A major in geography probably will be offered in 1967 or 1968. 

Urge Larger Negro Attendance 
Negro enrollment is receiving imdivided attention from some sectors of Student Government at Notre Dame. Dissatisfied with the percentage of American Negroes enrolled at the University, a number of stu­dents have formed a Committee on Negro Eiirollmait (CONE), as a division of the civil rights commission, to convince more Negroes to seek admission to Notre Dame. During the Christmas vacation, some 85 vol­unteer "recruiters" sought out more than 300 Negro high school seniors across the country. Director of Admissions Brother Raphael Wilson CSC has endorsed the interviewing. 

20-Million Volts 

The physics depsurtment at Notre Dame, and espe­cially nuclear research, will receive a $2.5 million shot-in-the-arm in the near future. Rev. Hieodore 
M. Hesburgh CSC announced recently a program to construct an 80-ton, 15-million electron volt electro­static accelerator (popularly termed an "atom-smasher") and an addition to Nieuwland Sdaice Hall to house the apparatus. The device will be coupled to the University's current four-million volt accder­ator to produce almost 20-milIion volts of energy. Described as "one of the most versatile accelerators in the country," the instrument will take two years to construct. A National Science Foundation grant will finance almost $2.2 million of the total cost. 

Restraint on ND Visitor 
Much political and religious debate has centered around the Catholic primate of Poland, and now that debate may cancel his trip to the United States and a visit to Notre Dame. Stefen Cardinal Wyszsoisld was planning a visit to the University August 27 during a tour of the US and Canada to celebrate the 1,000th Anniversary of Poleind as a Christian nation. The communist government of Poleuid recently banned the cardinal from travel abroad, however, on the ground that while in Rome in December for Vatican n he carried on "political activity harmful to Poland." The activity consisted of a controversial letter Cardi­nal Wyszynski and other Polish bishops salt to West German bishops urging Polish-German reconciliation. 
f\ NE ALWAYS begins a new year with a surge of hope. ^ We have far ranging hopes for 1966. The University is at a new threshold, thanks to Challenges I and II. One could outline a long list of developments that resulted from the infusion of some $36 million during the last six years. In a sense, our appetites have been whetted for what can yet be at Notre Dame. A great new School of Theology, with special studies in ecumenical, liturgical, and pastoral theology for both priests and laymen. Catholics and non-Catholics, is in the offing. A new Center for Higher Religious Studies will operate ecumen­ically on an intercultural, as well as interreligious, basis. At least, God is not dead at Notre Dame. Planning is under way in all of our colleges. Science has now planned a new interdisciplinary, graduate approach for the years ahead. We are installing a new and more powerful atom smasher. A Life Science Building and a new chemistry addition to Nieuwiand Science Hall are on the drawing boards. Engineering has its new master plan, too, in­volving another building for expanding graduate research and teaching. Both of these plans run over $10 million apiece, which is a new challenge in itself. Business Admin­istration is also looking to a new graduate program in business and public administration. There is no outstand­ing Catholic graduate school in this field. Not yet. We are hoping. Another challenge. The humanities and social sciences have recently been neglected in American higher education, with most of the outside support going to science and technology. We tried to correct this at Notre Dame by allocating one-third of the last Ford grant, $2 million, to these fields. We are inaugurating this year a new social science laboratory and have allocated a whole floor in the new Memorial Library to our ongoing projects (another two million worth) in humanistic research. 
The new Psychology Department is growing, as are our overseas programs in population studies, university de­velopment. Peace Corps, and exchange of students. On the material side, thanks again to very generous alumni support, we are getting into the ground in the spring on three, new projects, the Athletic and Convocation Center, .: the Faculty Club, and a new post office. High on our Ijsi^ of priorities are new graduate and undergraduate jes\-;l dence halls to make this University cornpletely residehtja a new liturgical chapel on the East Campus, a Half^' House between here and Saint Mary's, for both" class.^s; .; and social activities. So run some of our hopes f6r.#.%^l''-' I have only touched the surface, but enough to rndiea'tfe/ that, as Tom Dooley loved to quote from Robert Frosti 
We have miles to go And promises to keep And miles to go ^^^ THEODORE M. HESBURGH CSC Betore we sleep. PRESIDENT 
new 


WVER5ITY IN '66 
"YyTIT H the onset of 1966, the University of Notre ;.^ ^ Dame stands at "a new threshold," according 
% its dynamic president. Rev. Theodore M. Hes-Jburgh CSC. An eventful year of unprecedented academic de­vvelopment, impressive physical growth and e.\panded student services has been forecast in a survey con­ducted by the Notre Dame ALUMNUS among key officials of the University administration. 
Impending and exciting academic developments cited by Fr. Hesburgh include establishment of a 
Ichool of Theology and a Center for Higher Religious Studies, inauguration of a graduate program in busi­ness and public administration, pursuit of a new inter­aisciplinary approach in science, implementation of 
j i new master plan lor engineering and an intensifica-Efion of research in the humanities and social sciences 'with the creation of a social science laboratory. 
Intensification. Rev. John E. Walsh CSC, vice-presi­dent for academic affairs, while stressing the im­portance of continuing programs such as faculty de­velopment, spelled out additional academic programs which "are now either in the advanced planning stage or are scheduled to get under way in 1966. Among these are an extensive program of continuing education in the new Center at the entrance to the campus, a new graduate department of microbiology 
By JAMES E. MURPHY 

integrated with Notre Dame's famed Lobund Lab­oratory, a long-needed department of geography, establishment of the Sophomore Year of Studies at Angers, France, as well as at Innsbruck, and an ex­panded program of cooperation with nearby Saint Mary's College." 
Expansion. Meantime, under the direction of Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC, executive vice-president and chairman of the University's building committee, architects and contractors are working at full speed to provide the physical facilities demanded by a university "on the move." The Center for Continu­ing Education is scheduled for completion in time for two major international conferences this spring: "The Main Theological Issues of Vatican n " and "Marx and the Western World." Ground wiU be broken in the spring for an §8 million Athletic and Convocation Center which wiU provide unparalleled facilities for varsity and intramural sports and physical education classes and serve the surrounding Saint Joseph Valley as well. Also on the drawing boards: a new post office and faculty club near the entrance to the campus and additionzil facilities for the Colleges of Science and Engineering including a Life Science Building. 
University programs and buildings are designed primarily, of course, for students. Several University 

the university ia '66 
oflacials, whose primary concern is the students them­selves, foresee a number of developments in 1966. 
Implementation. Rev. Charles McCarragher CSC, the vice-president for student affairs, predicts that stu­dent government "will become a much more effective force in the lives of students" during this year and the ensuing decade. In this era of student protest on every campus, Fr. McCarragher believes the po­tential of student government is unlimited, but "only the students themselves can draw upon this potential." 
The dean of students, Rev. Joseph Simons CSC, while not unmindful of the traditional disciplinary role of his office, expects to follow a new approach to his responsibilities in 1966, that of student per­sonnel services. He and his staff will be concerned increasingly not only with the student in disciplinary difficulty, but also with students having other lands of problems — financial or emotional, for example 
— which reduce their effectiveness as students and individuals. 
REV. JOHN E. WALSH, CSC, VICE­PRESIDENT FOR ACADEMIC AFFAIRS. 
The year 1966 will not on/y show a steady sfrengfhening of fhose 

Rev. Joseph Hoffman CSC, University chaplain, cites a number of ways in which Notre Dame stu­dents are giving witness to their faith, ranging from volunteer work in nearby South Bend to far-off Latin America. The goal of Fr. Hoffman and those associated with him in directing student reli­gious life is nothing less than "the transforma­tion of- the University community into a Christian community." 
Emphasis. As lor Notre Dame's incoming students. Brother Raphael Wilson CSC, director of admissions, says a new stress wiU be placed on "personal quali­fications" of potential students since the majority of the 5,000 applicants for the 1,500-member freshman class "possess the intellectual abilities to be successful at Notre Dame." 
Athletic Director Edward W. Krause reports the University "will encourage every boy on campus to participate in some physical activity" during 1966. In addition to enthusiasm for the traditional varsity sports, Krause tells of "amazing interest" in six club sports: hockey, lacrosse, Rugby, soccer, sailing and skiing. The new Athletic and Convocation Center, scheduled for completion during the 1968-69 school year, "wUl enable us to expand the whole program tremendously," i5jause predicts. 
Head Football Coach Ara Parseghian, whose "Fighting Irish" were ranked ninth nationally in the final season polls, says "a rebuilding job must take place" in 1966 if Notre Dame is to face successfully "a. ten-game schedule composed of the best teams on a national scale." 
Providing the bulk of the financial resources for academic development, physical expansion and Uni­versity progress generally is the responsibility of the Notre Dame Foundation. James W. Frick, vice-president for public relations and development, fore­sees successful completion of the three-year §20 mil­lion Challenge II Program "well before the June 30th deadline." But, like football coaches. University ad­ministrators, pau"ticularly those engaged in develop­ment work, can never pause long to contemplate past success. With the Board of Lay Trustees fore­seeing a University expenditure of §450 million dur­ing the coming decade, "there is no time to look back," Frick said. "We must constantly have our eye on the future, pcurticularly the future of Notre Dame." 
academic areas to which the Un/­ REV. CHARLES I. McCARRAGHER,  
versity always has been deeply dedicated, but will also see the in­ CSC, VICE-PRESIDENT FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS.  Student Government, now in its initial stages at the University of  
troduction  of  new  programs  to  Notre Dame, will  become a much  
enrich the life  of scholarship and  more effective force in the lives of  
research as well  as the quality  of  the  students during  the  next  10  
instruction  on  campus. Foremost  years if the students will  build  on  
among the latter, either in the ad­ the  foundation  established since  
vanced planning  stage  or sched­ 1952. The potential of Student Gov­ 
uled to get under way in 1966, in­ ernment is unlimited, and only the  
clude: graduate schools in business  students themselves, through  dili­ 
and  public  administration,  and  gence and responsibility, can draw  
theology;  a  graduate department  upon this potential. The future looks  
in microbiology;  an undergraduate  bright and I am sure that Student  
department of geography; and an  Government and all its facets will  
extension of the sophomore year  become a traditional  force and in­ 
abroad  to include Angers, France.  fluence at the University.  

ALUMNUS JANUARY \966 FEBRUARY 

ALUMNUS JANUARY \')&6 FEBRUARY 
REV. EDMUND P. JOYCE, CSC, EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT. 
Four ma;or building projects will be in process in 1966. The Center for Continuing Education will be completed in the spring, about the same time construction on fhree other new buildings will be started. These are the Athletic and Convocation Cen­ter, to be located directly east of the stadium; a new post office, to be constructed immediately north of the Cenfer for Confinuing Education and across from the bus shelter; and a new faculty house, to be built just south of ffie Cenfer for Con­tinuing Education. During the year, we also will give serious thought to the construction of additional residence halls and, likewise, the erection of added facilities for the schools of science and engineering. 
MR. JAMES W. FRICK, VICE-PRESIDENT FOR PUBLIC RELATIONS AND DEVELOPMENT. Many wise men have said that you can't run two capital drives back-to-back and succeed. 1966 will prove how wrong they were. Already, early in the year, we are closing in on the goal of the Challenge II $20 million program. There is little doubt that we will complete this second capital fund drive by Universal Notre Dame Night, April 18, 1966, well in advance of the June 30 Ford Foundation deadline. 1966 will be an opportune year to write some honest words of appreciation for what the Alumni and friends of the University have made possible. 
REV. JOSEPH B. SIMONS, CSC, DEAN OF STUDENTS. 
While most alumni think of the office of the dean of students as having a purely disciplinary function — and though the office will continue to operate in that capacity — if is my hope that the office will begin to take on the function it serves in most other major universities. The rote I have in mind is that suggested by the title Student Personnel Services. Although "in trouble" has always meant one thing at Notre Dame, a young man may be "in trouble" a number of ways.-disciplinary, fmancially, emotionally, medically, and so forth. The attempt is to coordinate the services available to view the student in a broader context than was previously possible. The immediate goal is to ease some of the facelessness that invades any institu­tion growing in membership. The long-range hope is to pro­vide many more students a "place to turn" when other avenues are closed. 
ARA PARSEGHIAN, HEAD FOOTBALL COACH. 
Again in 1966, as in previous years, the greatest challenge will be molding a team that must face a ten-game schedule composed of tf7e best teams on a national scale. Defensively, our rebuilding task is virtually limited to the secondary since our "big-four" and all linebackers will be returning. Offen­sively, we'll be without the services of five of our starting seven linemen not to mention the loss of Bill Wolski and Bill ZIoch in the backField. Nevertheless, it would appear from observing our freshmen that we will be getting help in the area we need most. Our passing game in '65 was our weakest suit, and if has been encouraging to view the performance of several freshmen this past fall. A rebuilding job must take place. With spring drills beginning in April and with Notre Dame spirit prevailing, I have every confidence ND will be a representative team in '66, 

EDWARD W. KRAUSE, DIRECTOR OF ATHLETICS. 

A Notre Dame education in­


the university in '66 
cludes the intellectual, the spiritual, 
and the physical. Our aim is to take 
care of the physical side of a stu­
dent's life on campus so that he will 
receive what we consider a com­
plete ND education. All of our 
major varsity sports teams are, and 
will be competitive in their fields. 
There is amazing interest in the 
club sports and equally remarkable 
is the enthusiasm in the inferhall 
program. Unfortunately, the over­
all athletic program has reached 
its peak with the limited indoor 
facilities available on campus. 
However, we are looking forv/ard 
to the spring of 1966 when the 
building of our new Athletic and 
Convocation Center will start. The 
new building will enable us to ex­
pand the whole program tre­
mendously. 

BRO. RAPHAEL WILSON, CSC, DIRECTOR OF ADMISSIONS. 
The Admissions Office is not lacking for applicants: 5,000 applied last year for 1,500 places. The formidable task is the selection of the best among these with the realization that the majority possess the intellectual abilities to be successful at Notre Dame. Consequently, new criteria are being researched that will stress the personal qualifications in an effort to identify those who will profit most from Notre Dame. These objectives have been given encouragement by the increased availability of financial aid for the talented student of limited means. Cur­rently about 25 percent of the students are receiving aid through University-administered programs. New federal aid to education will assist to some degree. We look to the day when our search for talent can be conducted without fear of losing promising students for lack of financial assistance. 
REV. JOSEPH W. HOFFMAN, CSC, UNIVERSITY CHAPLAIN. 
Our goal is the transformation of the University community into a Christian community. Allocation of resources and per­sonnel will be made toward helping students discover the depths and riches of their faith through the experiences of a Christian community. . . . We shall identify our religious pro­gram with the attitude of search, so apparent in students, be­cause Christianity is not a status but a process. More and more students are looking for ways to give witness to this faith: tutoring programs in South Bend are outlets for zeal; the Coun­cil of ffie International Lay Apostolate (CILA) is not strong numerically, but the effect on those who have lived and worked with the poor of Peru and Mexico is profound. We shall see more coordination of faculty, both priests and laymen, of graduate students and undergraduates, individually and in groups. The task is a mighty one, but we can rely on the good will, enthusiasm and sacrifice, of which we have already seen strong evidence. 


v>^i­
9^ ^ : S^^Wi 
DEAN THOiMAS P. BERGIN 



BUILDING and PROGRAM TAKE SHAPE 
A MONG the many exciting programs already 
planned for the Center for Continuing Education is one designed specifically for the Alumni. Scheduled just prior to the Alumni Reunion on June 9 JUid 10, is a two-day Alumni Seminar on the general subject of population. The central theme of the seminar will be focused on a consideration of the Catholic point of view — emphasis on life rather than prevention of it — and the role of the Church in our society. 
The seminar wiU address three levels of the popu­lation problem, each of which, though related to the others, has its own specific concerns. The first of these is, "The Church's Pastoral and Teaching Re­sponsibilities: the morality of the means of respon­sible parenthood." The second is, "The Church and the Individual Catholic in a Plurjilistic Society: the population policy decisions regcirding government progrsims of birth control on local and nationeil levels." The third is the broadest, most complex and most urgent, "The Population Explosion and Its Consequence on the International Level." 
Dr. Frederick Crosson, director of the Genereil Program, has agreed to join me in this important work as co-chairman. Fathers John Cavanaugh and Albert Schlitzer, along with Dr. George Shuster and Jim Armstrong, will serve in advisory capacities. 
An outline of the complete seminar program and a list of the required readings, along with registration procedures, wiU be published in the Mcirch-April issue of the ALTJMNUS. 
Father Hesburgh, the University administration arid the faculty at Notre Dame have long sought the opportunity to work more closely with our Alumni, particularly in those areas wherein the University might assist in their continuing intellectual needs. The first Alumni Semincir, scheduled for June 1966, represents this long-awEuted opportunity. It is a begin­ning. It can be the initial step in the formulation of a series of Alumni progreims focused upon a vjiriety of topics that can be fruitfully discussed and evalu­ated—discussions and evaluations which may prove very rewarding as we face the pressing problems of our time. 

• c j TATE was undefeated and the number one team cc< ' l5 "^ the country," recalls Callahan. "Normally, 
the third weekend in November sees the Big Ten Conference championship being decided. The Wis­consin-Minnesota or Michigan-Ohio State games have a bearing on the Big Ten title, and those games take a great deal of the pressure off our press box demand for this final home game. But this year Michigan State had already won the title and the trip to the Rose Bowl, so that meant everything was wrapped up in the game here at Notre Dame. 
"And, too, it was my final game here at Notre Dame. . ." 
The pressure had been building toward this cli­mactic battle for several weeks ever since Michigan State had toppled Purdue, 14-10. The Irish, too, had been building up a head of steam ever since an early-season loss to Purdue. The 69-13 walloping of Pitts­burgh on Nov. 6 made many observers feel that Notre Dame's powerful running game just might crumple MSU's near-impregnable defense. 
Most of the regular newspapers, wire services and other news organizations that cover every Notre Dame home game had their regular seats assured in the press box. But that wasn't enough. They needed more space 
for this big one. The Chicago Tribune, which usually staffs a home game with two men, had five writers here on Nov. 20, plus two photographers. 
Other papers, too, were phoning for additional press box seats. 
"The Baltimore Stin phoned me on Thursday, and the best I could promise them then was two tickets in the stands to cover the game. They were tickled with that, but by Friday night at the press party I had squeezed them into the press box. 
"Hotels were the big problem. Before the season I always reserve blocks of rooms at several hotels in town and adjust a bit as the season moves along. But this game developed so late that there were just no rooms available. On Friday night after our press party I was dropping writers off at my neighbors' who had kindly agreed to make beds available in their homes. I never had a situation quite like that before." Week-long Demands. Much of Callahan's time that week prior to the game was spent on the telephone, handling requests from legitimate news sources who wished to cover the game. E.xplaining what seats would be available, the shortage of hotel space, how Bill Wolski's leg injury was responding, etc., occupied Callahan as well as his secretary, Mary McCarthy, and 
Jim ButZf a student assistant lor Charlie Cottahan before tiis graduation In 1949f is sales manager tor sporting goods products in the Srunswictz Company's international division^ Chicago, 
George Schilling, a 1953 graduate from the College of Business Administrationf is secretary al Schilling's Inc., a photographic supply firm in South Bend. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 

WITH THEIR PRESS BOX and photo deck passes threaded through buttonholes, pinched in hat bands or tied around a camera bag, members of the press alight the stadium's lofty perch to recount all the play via TV, radio, telephone or teletype. 
^toP the 



action 
A FAMILIAR FACE in the press box crowd, righf, at least to stu­dents, is the University's dean of men whose vantage point sur­veys all the action on the field as well as in the stands. Also, commonly seen in the press box ore some of the official guests of the University. 
MORE THAN A CAR-FULL of sup­plies are carted over to the stadium before the game, below, by student assistant Tom Doty. 

A TELEPHONE CO. representative is needed to control the more than one dozen telephones that are used within the stadium during the game. 
his top student assistant, Tom Doty. 

Veteran Notre Dame observers compared the week's demand for tickets and the press coverage to the Army game of 1947, at that time, the final game in the historic cadet series. 
"The capacity of our press box in 1947 was 263," continued Callahan, "but we've made some alterations to give writers more room since then, and we now can seat only 191.1 would estimate we had about 400 people stuffed into the box for that Army game, and we probably had about 350 for this Michigan State game. 
"Fred Stabley, the MSU public relations director, told me that he had more pressure on him for seats cuid space for this road game than for any home game in his 20 years at East Lansing. So, I would imagine that the interest in this game was at least equal to the 1947 Army game." 
Week-long Coverage. Adding to the pregame confu­sion in Notre Dame's sports publicity office were the 
^6 

early-week arrivals of many writers to herald the preparations of Ara Parseghian's charges. 
Associated Press Midwest sports editor, Jerry Liska, drove in on Tuesday, and within 24 hours the campus was sprinkled with scribes from Detroit, Chi­cago, Lansing, Cleveland, Indianapolis, New York and other points both east and west. 
On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, Coach Par­seghian held early-afternoon press conferences. His words were flashed across the nation, and the story of the every-night impromptu pep rallies also added to the daily stories filed by the vmters. 
"Thank goodness," adds Callahan, "for the Patter­son-Clay fight in Las Vegas on the Monday after our game. If it hadn't been for that, we probably would have had another 50 sports editors and columnists phoning me for space and rooms." Last-minute Adjustments. But Walter (Red) Smith, syn­dicated writer of the New York Herald-Tribune, was one who decided to fly in from Nevada for the epic 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19i56 FEBRUARY 

SK «S 
THE IRISH JIG in the Callahan and McCarthy (Charlie's secretary) manner begins Monday morning before each home game on Charlie's press box chart as press pass requests flood the publicity office. 
battle. He left Las Vegas around noon on Friday, flew into Chicago and drove to South Bend in a rental car. He arrived about 10 on the Friday evening "in plenty of time for the post-press party social activities." Smith, a Notre Dame graduate, stayed around until Sunday noon when he drove back to Chicago and hopped aboard a jet for Las Vegas. 
"I was up pretty eai-ly the day of the game," Calla­han remembers. "I had to get to the office, and I also had to arrange for rides for some of the writers who were staying in my neighborhood. The office was bed­lam with the usual last-minute scramble. A man from Michigan State's Visual Education Department needed a field pass, and I didn't have one. We did take care of him about 10 minutes before the kickoff, however." 
Just before the kickoff, BiU Redfield of the Mich­igan City (Ind.) News Dispatch presented Callahan with a portable television set as a gift from the many local writers who had worked with Charlie over the years. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 

WALTER "RED" SMITH, a '27 ND graduate, is one of the several nationally syndicated columnists who fre­quently journey to South Bend during the football season. 
FOCUSSING on every ploy from above the press box ore the motion picture cameramen whose films are later used by coaching staffs, TV netv/orks and commercial movie produc­tion firms. Right, a sports v^riter scans his story before filing it with the crew of tele­type operators seen in the background. 


atop ^j^g action 

Atop the Action. Then, the kickoff, and suddenly the 1965 version of the "Battle of the Century" was under way. 
Several times in the first half, as players were in­jured, the phone in front of Callahan rang, passing on information concerning the extent of the injuries and the chances regarding their participation in the second half. 
Within two minutes after the first quarter's close, students passed out mimeographed play-by-play ac­counts of action. The same pattern was followed at halftime, along with statistics. 
"I had to leave the press box and walk down to the field at the half. My wife, Betty, and I were to be honored at halftime. I am grateful to Moose Krause and the University, but I don't think they should have been concerned about a publicity director. 
"Besides, the football game is the important thing." 
And, at the half, the writers, photographers and broadcasters gathered at the hot dog stands in the resu- of the press box. Notre Dame was leading, 3-0, but . . . 
As the third quarter moved along it became obvi­ous that Notre Dame's halftime adjustments were not going to help them move the ball against the massive Spartan defense. Callahan's halftime statistics had pointed out the superiority of Michigan State, but the press box habituates who favored the Irish died hard. 
"We will make this announcement only once. Please!! There wiU be no cheer leading in the press box," said the public address system in the bo.x. Post Gome Wrap-up. The game wore on to its conclu­sion. It was Michigan State, 12-3, and there was very little for the second-guessers to speculate on when the final gun sounded. Callahan's student assistants passed out the fourth-quarter play-by-play within a couple of 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1965 FEBRUARY 

minutes after the final gun, and the mimeographed summary, containing starting lineups, substitutes and scoring, came along about two minutes after that. 
Ten minutes after the game's end came the final team statistics. With these in hand, Callahan led a huge group of writers down to visit the dressing rooms to learn from the competing coaches the details of the game. Everything was coming up roses in the Spartan dressing room. Coach Duffy Daugherty, his red cheeks shining with moisture from the shower room, traded witticisms with the press as his warriors shouted in the glee that only an undisputed national champion­ship can bring. 
Across the ramp in the Notre Dame quarters the hiss of the showers was the loudest noise. Parseghian's normal post-game explanations were subdued and brief. The players weren't ashamed. They were beaten by a better team. There were no thoughts of what might have been. 
"That fined elevator ride upstairs to the press box was a sad one," Callahan recalls. "But, we had to 
OTHER AUTHORS and CHAPTERS 
By JIM ARMSTRONG 
It's been said that Notre Dame is to sports what Washington is to politics. 
This sometimes creates the impression that such relationships are natural, and need little attention. The inference, however, is dispelled when one checks the loyal corps of official publicity and press sec­retaries both capitals have employed. Washington's list of press officers is long and distinguished, familiar to most. Notre Dame's sports publicist's role, though fewer in number, likewise has been blessed with much talent. 
The departure of veteran Charlie Callahan spot­lights this. 
When I was hired originally, in 1925, it was as combination publicity director and journalism instruc­tor. The publicity was to be both athletic, of which there was already an amazing national volume, and academic, which was in much shorter supply on the national scene. 
I soon discovered that Rock didn't need my fresh approach. He was a consummate publicity man him­self. In addition, he had been ministered to by such unusual student assistants as Arch Ward, Frank Wal­lace, the late Paul Butler, and George Strickler, to mention a few of the budding professionals he shel­tered. Also, the late Grantland Rice and other old pros were contributing their services effectively, which was one reason I was susceptible when Al Ryan's chair was vacated. 
There followed another dynasty of student and part-time sports publicity men, among them Joe McNamara, Frank Siudzinski, John Rickord, Frank Doan, Art West, Arch Hurley and Lou Heitger. Then suddenly, the breakthrough—Joe Petritz—the first full-time director. 
Joe came in quietly, assuming with deceptive competence the problems of interpreting the national champions, the opening of the new stadium, and all too soon the tragic death of the master publicist in athletics, K. K. Rockne. 
Petritz remained in the job for 13 years, maturing and polishing Notre Dame's sports publicity through 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
make sure the statements of the two coaches were typed and handed out to the writers. Also the indi­vidual statistics. Then, there was the answering of individual questions that came up as the newspaper­men worked on their coverage stories. 
"As the writers finished their work and packed their typewriters away and left the press box, things seemed a bit lonelier than usual." 
It was almost dark outside. The parking lots sur­rounding the stadium were almost empty, and the wind whipped papers around in a whirlpool through the vacant seats. 
Upstairs in the press box the lights showed more than a hundred newspapermen still working over their typewriters. There were deadlines for the early Sun­day editions to meet. 
And hovering in the background, ready to provide answers to questions or rides to the airport as he had done for 20 years, was a Notre Dame man named Callahan. 
GEORGE STRICKLER and FOUR HORSES: an irate Rockne gave the student publicist time during mid­week practice for now-famous porfroit. 
success and succession until World War II took him out of the job. 
Taking over the now thoroughly professional post was Walter Kennedy, who proved to be more than equal to the adjustments of the war years. The present commissioner of the N.B.A. also left a major contribution in the relatively few years of his tenure. 
When Charles Callahan in 1946 stepped into the high pressures of the Leahy post-World War n jug­gernauts, it was inevitable that his unassuming man­ner would create a little suspense in watching him fit his youthful feet into the large shoes now resting under the sports publicity desk. 
The suspense was short-lived. And for 20 years, Notre Dame sports have continued to enjoy the same Ail-American performance in their publicizing that they enjoyed in their playing. In fact, there were years when Charlie was the writers' only AU-Amer­ican on the campus. 
The athletic book is far from finished. The early chapters have been fascinating. It will be even more fascinating to watch the next author as he slips into the chair behind the historic typewriter to begin a new chapter. 

ALABAMA 
John A. O'Brien, Jr., '51, 1465 Linda Vista Dr., Regent Forest, Birming­ham, Ala. 

ALASKA 
John S. Hellenthal, '35, Box 941, Anchorage, Alaska. 

ARIZONA 
Phoenvc—ArlhuT L. Erra, '30, 5038 
N. 35th St., Phoenix, Ariz. 
Tucson—I. "Buddy" Goldman, *36, 3932 E. Poe, Tucson, Ariz. 

ARKANS.\S 
Fort Smith—^James A. Gilker, *48, 3715 Free Ferry Rd., Fort Smith, Ark. 
Little Rock—^James E. Madican, '43, 4617 Crestwood, Little Rock. Ark. 

CALIFORNIA 
Biiierj^rf<;—Richard L. Bamett, '56, 1415 18th St., Apt. 316, Bakeisficld, Calif. Cenlro;—Harold A. Bair, '29 (Sccre­tar>), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Calif. Los Aneeles—Robert L. Gervais, '55, 3219 Rosewood Ave., Los Angeles 66, Calif. Northern—Edw-ard E. Madigan '54, 
5528 Glcnbrook Dr., Oakland, CaliL Orange County—Thomas J. Getzing­er, '53, 2212 E. Wibhire .^ve., 
FuIIerton, Calif. 
Sacramento—CliiTord M. Collins, '51, 117 Semple Dr., Mather .AFB, Calif. .San DiVjo—Man-in W. Rickling, '52. 9235 Fermi Ave., San Diego 23, 
Calif. 
San Fernando Valley—Robert Hunter, 
'52, 8757 JumiUa Ave., Northridge, 

CSif. 
San Gabriel Valley — William T. 
Huston, '51, 612 S. Flower St., Suite 700, Los .Angeles 17, Calif. 
Wesl-Central—E. Stuart Hilbcrt. '63, 1901 Halfoid, No. 105, Santa Clara, Calif. 
COLORADO 
Colorado Springs •— Lt. Col. Malliaiii 
M. Wakin, '52, Quarters .Vo. 6410E, Air Force Academy, Colorado Springs, Colo. 
Denver—James Robert Hilger, Jr., *56, 3166 S. Vine St., Englewood, Colo., 80110. 
CONNECTICUT Connecticut Valley—Robert L. Mc-
Goldrick, '56, 15 Drur>" Lane, \V, Hartford, Conn. 
Fairfield County—^William Mulrenan, '37, 100 Tidemill Terr., Fairfield, Conn. 
Naugatuck—Thomas K. Hubbard, '56, 39 Park Dr.. Torringion. Conn. 
New Haven—Dr. Robert T. Warner, '53, 1960 Whitney Ave., Hamdcn 17, Conn. 


DELAWARE 
Arthur F. DiSabatino, '59, 801 Bank of Delaware Bldg., Wilmington, Del. 

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Waller J. Brennan, M.D.. '41, 700 Duke St., Alexandria, Va. 


FLORIDA 
Central — Robert J. Pleus, '57, 1037 Lancaster, Dr., Orlando, Fla. 
Ft. Lauderdale—Robert P. Blaikie, 
'56, 4411 N.E. 15lh Ave., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 33308 Greater Miami—George F. Hero, '52, 40 N.E. 75th St., Miami, Fla. 

North Florida — Albert H. Kessing, '40, 7245 Coligny Rd., Jacksonrille, Ha. 
Palm Beach County—Daniel Downey, 
Jr., '44, Suite 615, Harvey Bldg., West Palm Beach, Fla. Pensacola—^John L. McCormack, '49, 
P.O. Box 8, Pensacola, Fla. 
St. Petersburg-Tampa — Mark E. 
Mooncy, '26, 4525 Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 

GEORGIA 
Atlanta — Joseph S. Signtago, '48, 4720 Cherr>-%vood Lane, Auanta, 

HAWAH 
Harvey Lung, '53. 1605 Ulueo St., Katlua, Oahu, Hawaii. 

IDAHO 
Frauds H. Hidu, '49, 1180 Phelps Circle. Mountain Home, Idaho. Idaho Falls — James M. Brady, '29, 
P.O. Box 2148. Idaho Falls, Idaho. 

ILLINOIS 
Aurora — John G. Br>*an, '54, 111 Downer Place, Aurora, 111. 
Central lllinou—.Vbcn. O. Eck, Jr., 
'58, Old Jacksom-illc Rd., Spring­field, III. 
Chicago — Patrick J. Shannon, '48, 943U S. Oakley .Ave., Chicago 20, III. Decatur—^Joseph T. Donovan. '56, 
R. No. 1, Illiopolis, III. 62539 
Eastern Illinois — Thomas A. Jacobs, '57, 1520 N. Jackson St., Danville, 111. 
Fox Valley — George R. Schmidt, '29, 620 Summit St.. Elgin. III. /o/.Vl—Richard E. McHugh, '43, R.R. 2, Manliattan. 111. 
McHenry County — Thomas J. Par^ sle>-, '54, 377 West Crystal Lake Ave., Cr>-stal Lake, lU. 
Peoria — George J. Best, M.D.. '38, 312 MiUer Ave., Peoria Hts., III. Rockjord—A\bcn Carroll. '22, 206 W. 
State St.. Rockford, 111. 
Rock River Valley — Paul L. Bcrret­
tini, '56, 609 Crawford Ave., Dixon, III. 
Southern Cook County — Robert N. 
CafTarclli, '55, 2633-E Hawthorne Lane, Flossmoor, III. 

INDIANA 
Calumet District — Robert J. Welsh, Jr., '56, 7000 Chicago Ave., Gary, Ind. 
Eastern Indiana—^James F. Halligan, '32, 303 Wysor Bldg., Muncic, Ind. Elkhart — Jzmcs D. Ash, '33, 1151 Strong Ave., Elkhart, Ind. 
Fori Wayne — John A. Haley, Jr., '51, 6735 Hihonia Dr., Fort Wa>-ne, Ind. 46809 
Indianapolis—Richard F. McNamara, '54, 1 Bennett Rd., Carmel, Ind. 46032. 
Michigan City—Leon A. Darets, '59, Merchants National BanJc, 515 Franklin St., Michigan City, Ind. 
St. Joseph Valley—Zdwzrd J. Gray, 
'52, 645 First Bank Bldg., South Bend. Ind. 
Terre Haute — Michael H. Kcams, '60. 1642 S. 5ih St., Terrc Haute, Ind. 
Tri-State — Joseph H. Harrison, '52, 500 S. Alvord, Ex-ansville, Ind. 

IOWA 

Burlington — Joseph Ridge, '53, 1721 West Acres, Burlington. lou-a. 
Des Moines — Joseph B. Joyce, '54, 4708 S.W. I6th St., Dcs Moines 15, lou-a. 
Dubuque—Rev. William Kunsch, *37, Our^ Lady of Seven Dolors Rectory, Fc5lina, Inw-a. 
Sioux-Land — Ra>-mond B. Duggan, '43, 3244 Jackson, Sioux City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. MoHne) — Peter H. 
Lousbcrg, '56. 1808 Third Ave., Rock Island, 111. 

KANSAS 
Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. 
5a/ina—Albert J. McLean. '31, 1410 Highland Ave., Salina, Kan. 
mckita —Ted J. McDonald, '59. 11 Hillcrest Ave., Wichita, Kan. 

KENTUCKY 
WiUiam J. Shcnnan, Jr., '58, 2710 Riedling Dr., Louis\'iIle, Ky. 4O206 

LOUISIANA 

New Orleans—Edward F. Sporl, Jr., '34, United Fruit Co., 321 St. Charles Ave., New Orleans, La. 70112 
Northern Louisiana—Dr. Edward R. 
Morgan, '44, 803 Jordan St., Shreveport, La. 

MAINE 

Anthony E. SiK-a. '56. 224 Walnut St., South Pordand, Maine. 

MARYLAND 

Baltimore — Anthony M. Mileto, *61. 5515 Da>'walt Ave., Baltimore 6, Md. 
MASSACHUSETTS 
Berkshire County — Alfred J. Bzdub, '49, 87 Kittredge Rd., Pittsfield, Mass. 
BaKon —Robert L. Marr. '58, 92 Scotland St., Hingham, Mass. 
Pioneer Valley — William A. Hurley, '28, 33 Elm St., Springfield, Mass. 01103 
MICHIGAN Battle Creek—Raymond R. Allen, 40, 
1U09 Security National Bank Bldg., Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County — Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Niles. Mich. 
Blue Water District — William L. 
Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—^William A. Dosmann. '53, 610 Betty Lane, Inkstcr, Mich. 
. 48141_ 

jDeiroft—John C. :Murrayi-'57, 1690 Bournemouth, Grosse Pointe 36, Mich. FCn( —."Ufrcd Mamoin^; '51, G-4295 Conmna.Rd., Flint,'&ftc:h.^ 
Gogebic Range—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels Bldg. Ironwood. Midi. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
—H. Edward Prein. '55, 4991 Blufl Dr., N.E., Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Hiawathaland — Donald T. Trottier, '44, 604 Ludinglon St., Escanaba, Mich. 
Jackson — Cyril J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. 
Kalamazoo — Frank G. Kersjcs, '30, 1202 South Westnedge Ave., Kalamazoo, Mich. 
Lansing — John F. Powers,_ '55, 1500 
W. Washtenaw Ave., Lansing, Mich. Monroe—Hugh J. Laughna, '40, 1587 Riverview, Monroe, Mich. 
Muskegon — Stanley R. Tyler, Jr., '58, 2211 Reneer St., Muskegon, Mich. 
Northland—Henry J. Lauerman, '23, 1975 Riverside Ave., Marinette, Wis. 
Saginaw Valley — Lawrence A. Smith, '31. 1305 Avalon, Saginaw, Mich. 48603 
Top of Michigan — Edward L. Molo­nei-, '17 416 East State St., Che-bo>'gan, Mich. 

MINNESOTA 

Trcin Cities—Thomas H. Stahl, '54, 2801 Wayzata Blvd., Minneapolis, Minn. 55405 

MISSISSIPPI 

William H. -Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jackson, Miss. 

MISSOURI 

Kansas City — Harold S. Solomon, '47, 1221 W. 71st Terrace, Kansas Cilv, Mo. 
St Louis — D. Jerry McGlmn, '60, 8322 Kingsbury, Clayton 5, Mo. 

MONTANA 

Bernard Grainey, '43, 906 — II Ave.. Helena, Montana. 
NEBRASKA Omaha and Council Bluffs—Thomas 
A. Walsh, Jr., '42. 9301 Dodge St.. Omaha, Neb. 

NEW JERSEY 

Central — John R. Mulli '53, 
R.D. 3, Somer\ille, N.J. 

New Jersey Shore—Raymond M. Ticr­ney, Jr.. '54, 45 North Vale Ave., LitUe Silver. N.J. 
New Jersey—^James A. Sebold, Jr., '50. 507 Bloomfidd Ave., Montdair, N.J. 
South Jersey — James B. Carson, '56, 624 Qinton Ave., HaddonSeld, N.J. 

NEW MEXICO 
William B. Benedick, '54. 4601 Haines Ave., Albuquerque, N.\I. 

NEW YORK 
Albany — Frank E. O'Brien. '58, 99 Brookline Ave., Albany. N.Y. Buffalo — Eugene P. O'Connor. '56, 68 Fairbanks, Buffalo, N.Y. 14223 
Central — John G. Cuddy. Jr., '55, 164 Winding Way, Camillus, N.Y. 13031 
Golden CiVc/e—James F. McVay, '42, 49 Parkway Lane, Bradford, Pa. 
Mid-Hudson Valley — Thomas E. 
Digan, '52, 40 Fuller Lane, Hyde Park, N.Y. Mohawk FoHrv—Michad J. -McGuirl, '49, 171 Roosevelt Dr., Utica, N.Y. New York City—Gordon L. Forester, '47, 24 War.l Ave., Weslbury, N.Y. 
Rochester — Vincent E. Dollard, '39, 160 Kings Gate, North, Rochester 17, N.Y. 
Schenectady—Robert J. Cichocki, '56. 
272 Closson Rd.. Scotia. N.Y. Svracuse—Sec "Central New York." Southern Tier — Frank F. O'Brien, 
'34. 201 Federation Bldg., Elmira, N.Y. Triple Cities—^Tliomas A. Muscatcllo, '49. 8 Marilyn Ave., Bingliamton, 
N.Y. 

NORTH CAROLINA 
Donald J. Kelsey, '48, 1115 West-ridge Rd., Greensboro, N.C. 

NORTH DAKOTA 
William Daner, '53, 1106 S. Highland Acres, Bismarxk, N.D. 

OHIO 
^tron—James D. Dettling. '61, 230 Dorchester Rd., Akron 13, Ohio._ Canton — Robert A. Richard, '56, 
1103 Manor Ave. S.W., Canton, Ohio. Cincinnati—Charles J. Lima, Jr., '58, 2541 RidgedilT, Cindnnau 12, Ohio. Cleveland—Robert I. Lally, '50, 2976 Lincoln Blvd.. Cleveland 18, Ohio. 
Columbus—Michael J. Hoffman, '55, 3389 Calumet, Columbus, Ohio 43214 
Bii>(on—Peter J. Donahue, '52, 2076 Ridgebury Rd., Dayton, Ohio 45440. Hamilton—^Jerome A. Ryan, '41, 353 
South D St., Hamilton, Ohio. 
Mansfield — Georac F. Ka\*anaugh, '31, 584 Clifton Blvd., Mansfield, Ohio. 
Northwestern—Lto J. Hawk, '55, 625 
Victory, Lima. Ohio. 
Ohio Valley—Robert R. Sincavich, '50, 
134 Grant Ave., Wheeling. W. Va. Sandusky — Richard C. Hohler. '47, 2603 Eastwood Dr.. Sandusky-, Ohio, rfffiji — Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 
Sycamore St.. Tiffin. Ohio. Toledo — Paul M. Kraus, '54, 1724 
W. Bancroft. Toledo, Ohio. 
Youngstown—Michael P. Lyden, Jr., '50, 4011 Cascade Dr., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 
Oklahoma City — Walter A. Nashcrl, Jr., '54, 2601 Drakestonc, Okla­homa City, Okla. 
Tuba — William N. Shechan, '49, 1931 S. Eranston, Tulsa, Okla. 


OREGON 
Phil R. Meaney, '50, 223 Board of Trade Bldg., Portland, Ore. 
PENNSYLVANIA Central Pennsylvania~~Dr. George W. 
Katter, '41, U.S. Bank Bldg. Johnstown. Pa. Erie — Richard T. McCormick, '55, 4425 Chcrr>- St., Eric. Pa. 
fforriidurg—Donald R. Meek, '50. 520 Park Ave., New Cumberland. Pa. Lehigh Valley — Thomas E. Macill, 
'55, 821 S. Ott St.. Allento»-n, Pa. 
Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, 
'41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. 
Philadelphia —VliWam A. Whiteside, 
Jr., '51, 7808 Cobden Rd., Lave­rock, Philadelphia 18, Pa. 
Pittsburgh — Paul A. Hudak, '51, 705 Fairvie\v Ave., Pittsburgh 38, Pa. 
Scranton—Earl E. Holmes, Jr., '54, 105 Belmont Ave., darks Green. Pa. 
Wilkes-Barre — Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19«< FEBRUARY 

JAMES D. COONEY Assistant Alumni Secretary 
It all began with a Moose call on a brisk Friday morning, Nov. 12. Athletic Director Krause had sum­moned me to his palatial suite in the corner of Breen-PhiUips. It was the eve of the North Carolina game. Penetrating a dense curtain of Corona-Coronas 
in the Moose's inner sanctum, I found him sipping Sanka and gazing pensively out the window at the old fieldhouse thirty feet away. 
"Jamie," said he, "you can almost hear the old joint deteriorate." 
"That's not the sound of deterioration," said I, "it's the sound of Bob Cahill thudding his head against the water pipes in his basement office. He just uncovered two unused tickets to last month's Army game." 
"You're right," said the Moose. "It is Cahill. It's a duU thud." "Jamie," said the Moose, "we are in dire need of new athletic facilities. And, as new assistant alumni secretary, you are about to endear yourself to our Notre Dame Clubs forever, and strike a blow for our new fieldhouse. Next Saturday, we will telecast the Michigan State game on closed circuit for our Clubs, and you will handle all the details. They will sell many tickets, and maybe they will send us a sheekle or two to get Cahill out of the basement." And that's how it began. The new role of closed-circuit rider was not with­out its saddle sores. The activities of the following eight days would have made many an AT&T stock­holder lick his chops. Every major Club in the coun­try was notified by phone. Apprehensive that our Club presidents might recoil in sheer panic, with only eight days to work on the project, we were soon re­assured. It was closer to sheer terror. Of the 37 Club presidents contacted, 20 foolhardy souls decided to give it a go. Two strikes (time and finances) were against us from the beginning. And, a high, inside fastball labelled inexperience should have grounded the whole thing. Monday: kickoff minus five days. Although most Clubs were notified over the weekend, little can be done until today. Asa BushneU, acting imder Article IX of the NCAA TV code, cordially informs us that the telecast is to benefit only Alumni, their families 
WUVtamspoTt — Joseph F. ORO, Jr., El Pnjo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 '55, 822 Franklin Si., Williamsport, Oliria Circle, El Paso. Te.ias. 
Pa. //ouKon—Robert F. Dillon, '48. 9418 Winsome Lane, Houston 42. Texas. 
RHODE ISLAND Mtdtand-Odesia — John L. O'Hem, AND SOUTHEASTERN 
'37, 1001 W. 25, Odessa, Te-ias. San Antonio — S. Chilton Maverick, MASSACHUSETTS '61, 110 Auditorium Circle, San 
Francis J. Conrorti, '43, Education Antonio, Texas. Funds, Inc., 10 Dorrance St., Providence, R.I. 
UTAH SOUTH CAROLINA Don J. Roney. '58, 320 East Fourth, 
Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Salt Lake Cit>- 8, Utah. Dr., Wesnvood, Charleston, S.C. 
VIRGINIA TENNESSEE 
Chattanooga — Edward F. DaTO, *43, Charles A. LaFratta. '47, 1301 Alsatia 506 Barrington, Signal Mountain, Dr., Richmond, Va. Tcnn. rirfctcater—Phillip L. Russo, '49, 153 
Memphis — Roy E. Gillia, '56, Peat Cedar Ln., Lynnharen, Va. Manvick Mitchell & Co., 2500 Stcnck BIdg., Memplits, Tcnn. 
Nashville — James C. GrecnwcII, Jr., 

WASHINGTON 
'54, Armco Steel Corp., 633 Thomp­Spokane—Dr. D. Curran Htggins, '49, son Lane, Nashville, Tcnn. S. 1103 Wall St., Spokane, Wash. 99203 TEXAS Wtitem — Alex S. Toth, '49, 4527 Ddlas—Vni A. Eichom, '47, 2708 Second Ave., N.E., Seattle 5, Southwood Dr., Dallas, Texas 75233 Wash. 
and friends; that no commercial sponsorship or co-promotion will be tolerated; and that no theaters are to be utilized. The non-theater clause launches a hectic scramble for alternate locations. The true spirit of ecumenism shines through the entire project as the Pittsburgh Club secures the Syria Mosque, and Davenport negotiates with the Masonic Temple. 
Tuesday: kickoff minus four days. Closed-circuit projection equipment is at a premium due to the im­
. pending Clay-Patterson tiff. Several dubs haul it in from distant cities. The Washington, D.C., Club sells out the ballroom of the Sheraton Plaza, and requests an additional location. Bushnell approves. The Pitts­burgh Club can't find a printer to produce their tickets on time. They bum the midnight oil, and print three thousand section and seat numbers by hand. 
Wednesday: kickoff minus three days. Lines or­dered through the Indianapolis AT&T oflBce extending from Boston to Omaha. The Detroit Club sells out Southfield High Auditorium. They request, receive approval for, and promptly sell half the seats in Cobo Hall. Davenport, Des Moines and St. Paul change their locations because of technical problems. 
Thursday: kickoff minus two days. West Coast tele­cast wiped out because of theater restriction and as­tronomical costs. Richmond, Canton and Lansing join the network. Pri­vate promoters seek "a piece of the action." Cleveland scours country­







nine 

side for projection equipment. 
Friday: kickoff minus one. Cleve-^l£|\#^ 2 land finds some. Network of 22 VJ^jf ^ locations in 20 cities completed. Visions of a , Midwest blackout dance in our heads. Black-11 ^ out insurance purchased by larger Clubs. 'I I Clubs commis­

f-.e.s november 
programs, concessions and a prayer or two. 
Saturday: kickoff. WNDU-TV's steady Ray Jackson calls the signals. Across the country 49,330 paying customers file in. Twenty Club presidents and one assistant alumni secretary are bathed in a cold sweat, awaiting the first flicker on the screen. God Bless Blackout Insurance. And, then, there it is, loud £md clear, in glorious black and white: "From Notre Dame Stadium, in South Bend, Indiana . . . . " 
We heave a sigh of relief. The Moose ignites his stogie, Cahill emerges from the basement, and we settle back to endure the agony of the game itself. 
WEST VIRGINIA FOREIGN CLUBS 
Cyril M. Reich. '39, 903 S. Drew St., 
Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, St. Albans. W.Va. 
C.S.C., '24, Moreau House, 28 Zin-Central — John D. Julian. '40, P.O. 

dabahar Lane, Dacca. East Pakiitan. 

Box 2063, Clarksburg, W.Va. 
Canada — Kiul H. LaFramboise, '34, St. Hilaire Rouville Co., 212 Blvd. 

\yiSCONSIN Richelieu, Quebec, Canada. 
Fox River Valley—Robert J. Simkins, Chile — Rev. Francis A. Provenzano, '56, 400 S. Douglas, Appleton, Wise. C.S.C., '42, St. Geoive's College, 54912 Aven, Pedro de Valdivu 1423, San­
Green Bay—Dr. Daniel W. Shea, '48, tiago, Chile. 718 E. Cass St.. Green Bay, Wise. Manila — Lawrence J. Gotuaco, *54, La Crosse — Duane D. Hajnmes. '56, P.O. Box 1152. Manila. Philippines. 3111 S. Losey, La Crosse, Wise. Mexico City—^Telmo De Landexo, *37, 
.U<rri(/—Augustus H. Stange. '27, 102 Eugenio Sue No. 220, Mexico City, 
S. Prospect St., Merrill. Wise Mexico. 
Milwaukee—John A. Schloegcl, *54, Panama — Lorenzo Romagoza, *45, 4483 N. Larkin St., .Mflivaukec, P. O. Box 8307, Rinama 7, Panama. WL«^ ^•eru—Enrique Lulli, '45, Cuzco 440, 
Northwest Wisconsin — Ben M. Siri-Liina, Peru. anni, Jr.. '60, 2719 Keith St., Eau Puerto Rico—^Julio Vizcarrondo, Jr., Claire. Wise. 54701 '56, P. O. Box 9001, Santurce. 
^outh Central — Bernard S. Mixtacki, Puerto Rico. '50, 6303 Sylran Ln., Madison, Rome — Vincent G. McAloon, '34, Wise. 53716. (Secretary), Palazzo Brancacdo, Lai^o Biancacdo. 82. Rome. Italy. WYOMING Totro—Rev. Peter T. Moriwaki, S.J., Patrick H. Meenan, '49, Midwest '63. Sophia Utuversity 7, Kiocho, Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. ChiyodaJc, Tokyo, Japan. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 

CLUBS 
ATLANTA 

On Xov. 20 the Notre Dame Club of Atlanta met with their counterparts from Michigan State to listen to the Notre Dame-Michigan Slale foot­ball game. Approximately 34 members of the ND Club attended, including members from a^ far aw'ay as Athens, Ga., some 90 miles distant. The atten­dance is all the more remarkable in light of the fact that wc only Iiad tlic radio broadcast lo cfTer. The Michigan State's alumni boosted the atten­dance to around 70 persons. The meeting took place at the Golf Land Restaurant located near Interstate Hlglm-ay 85. 
Tills was tlie third consecutive joint m?cling of the two clubs to either listen to or watch the game, with Notre Dame's won-Ioss record being 1-2. Ho^vcver, it is significant to note that whereas this meeting had some 34 members, vocalizing on bcltalf of ND, the first meeting three years ago was attended by only four members. The same fo'ir have been present at all three gci-iogeihcrs: ED­WARD ABRAMS, ROBERT IIOCHMAN and Jan and JI.M EICHELBERGER. 
Tentative plans arc being drawn to sec if it is feasible for the ND Club to fly en mis^e to South Bend next year lo attend eithrr the North Caro­lina or the Duke football gam:. Plans now call for the charter of a Delta DC-9, or a hrger phnc if the demand meets expectations. More informa­tion on this will be forthcoming. 
On Dec. 5 the ND Club met at the chapel of Marist Mililar>* .Academy to celebrate Universal ND CommL-nion Sunday. Father John Brennan offered the Mass for the 38 participating ND men and their sons. Father Brennan delivered a short dissertation on the meaning and reatons for our celebrating Universal ND Breakfast in conjunction with the feast of the Immaculate Conception. JOE SIGN.'\IGO. Club president, spoke at the breakfast. 
—JAMES A. EICHELBERGER, Sccretar>­
AURORA, III. ^ = 

Tlic Club, under direction of President JOHN BRYAN, held its annual football ticket raffle at a dinner meeting in November. Each year the pro­ceeds of this raffle are used for a scholarsliip isiued annually by the Club. Se\'eral box's have been aided in receiving a ND degree during the past 15 years. Trrasurer TOM ST.ARSHAK reiwrted a net of approximately $1200, thus insuring continuance of the program for another vear. 
Atty. RICHARD WEILER. lit a fire under LEN 

FRETT. GENE GRIFFIN. OWEN KANE. JOHN 
LOFTUS and others to make it one of the more 
successful raffles, whicli this year included an all-
expense round trip for three days and nights at 
Miami. —DICK REEDY, Secretary 
BOSTON 
The last two months of 1965 were bubbling with 

activities for the XD Club of Boston. 
It began with 65 members and wives attending 

ND Night at Suffolk Downs, a local pony park, on 
No\'. 3. The individual rsces were given appropri­
ate names: The Four Horsemen Race, Knutc 
Rocknc Race. etc. 
On Nov. 20, the biggest event ever sponsored 

by tJie ND Club attracted 6,500 people to Boston 
Garden to witness the closed-circuit television 
broadcast of ND vs. MSU. The proceeds will be 
used for ll\c Club's Scholarship Fund. .\Iler the 
game, a dance u-as held at the Sheraton Plaza. 
Eighty members and sons attended the Com­

munion Breakfast on Dec. 12. held in the Boston 
College High School cafeteria. Rt. Rev. Comclii^s 
Donovan, the Club chaplain, celebrtitcd the Ma-s. 
Featured speakers were Rt. Rev. Jolm C. Carroll, 
director of CYO for the Archdiocese of Boston, 
and Lt. William C. Burke of the Boston Police 
Academy who displayed a \-ariety of confiscated 
weapons. 
Club members anxiously awaited the hockey 

game between ND and Boston State College on 
Dec. 19. A reception for the team and coach was 
held at the Sheraton Boston Hotel after the game. 
Also scheduled are the ND Football Highlights 

whicli will be shown sometime in Januarv-. 
—J.\CK LAMERE '53, Secretary 
BUFFALO 

The ND Club of Buffalo held its annual Com­munion Breakfast Nov. 28 at Rosarv* Hill College. Mass was celebrated by Club Cliaplain Fr. Baratoo. Speaker at the breakfast was Rev. John Condr>' SJ, formerly a tcaclier at Jesuit High School in New Orleans and now an instructor at Canisius High Scliool, Buffalo. Movies were pro\-ided for children during Fr. Condr\-'s address. HAROLD AUGUSTINE was chainnan. 
CALUMET DISTRICT INDIANA 

The Notre Dame Club of the Calumet Region held its annual dinner dance on Nov. 27 at St. John the Baptist Parish Panel Room in Whiting, Ind., with approxiinatelv 95 couples in attendance. JOHN M, O'DROBINAK '57 and J.\MES KIN­N.*\NE '57 served as co-cliairmen. .Arrangements were mide lo tliat any interested football fans could watch the ND-Miami game on television. 
The ne.\l club affair will be a performance by the ND Glee Club in Hammond on Feb. 4. —TIMOTHY P. GALVIN JR., Secret3r^• 
^^^= CANTON, OHIO ^^^^ 
Obserx'ing Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday, Dec. 12, at Walsh College, the ND Club of Canton also elected their officers for the coming year. ROBERT A. RICHARD '56 will serve as president. Other officers who were installed at the Christmas dance. Dec. 28, include: \^ce-President CHARLES N. KOEHLER '57. Treasurer JOH.V 
A. AMAN '55, and Secretary- EDWARD A. .MACHUGA '55. 
The Communion Mass was celebrated by Rev. James Johnson, and Joe Lcchlak, Central Cath­olic High School basketball coach, spoke at the breakfast. Retiring Club President EDWIN H. OBERMILLER JR. presided. 
—EDWARD A. M.ACHUGA. Secrctar>­
CENTRAL JERSEY 

Tlie Central New Jersey Club concluded its activities for the calendar year 1965 with a highly successful Communion Breakfast on Sunday, Dec 12 at the Roger Smith Hotel in New Brunswick. The breakfast was preceded by a pri\"ale Mass at the beautiful chapel of St. Peter's Hospital in New Brunswick. The Club was honored to have Rev. Robert I. Gannon SJ, former president of Fordham U., celebrate the Ma's and deliver the address at the breakfast. Approximately 60 alumni and friends attended and were completely won over by this wise and witty priest. Fr. Gannon accented the role which the Catholic university graduate must take in the Church in \'icw of the dccn'cs of the recently concluded Vatican Council. Cliairman JACK HOBLITZELL '55 and his committee dcserxe a vote of thanks for this inspiring concl'JSion to the year's activities. 
Earlier in the fall the Club held its annual 
Freshman Send-off. Approximately 25 new students 
and their families attended this affair at the Park 
Hotel in Plainfield and ivere given a preview of 
the spirit of ND. 
Oct. 9 saw 500 Alumni and friends at Shea 
Stadium in New York for our annual football 
trip, DICK CONNELLY '55 acted as chairman 
of the trip committee and did a magnificent job. 
About the only complaint heard was the fact 
that Dick himself took seats behind the goal 
posts while the rest of us were on the SO-j-ard 
line! (This complaint did not com: from Dick, 
by the way.) 
Tlic successful bus trip to the game has made 
It )>ossiblc for the Club to move closer lo its goal 
of establishing a scholarship fund for an area 
high school graduate. President JACK MULLEN 
'53 is working closely \i'itli the University ad­
ministration in setting up the details for this fund 
and it is anticipated that it will be available for 
the forthcoming school year. 
In the year to come several activities are 
planned. Tlie first date to note Is Feb. 17 when 
the Club will conduct a trip to the ND-N'YU 
basketball game in Madison Square Garden. The 
game will be preceded by a dinner at Leone's 
at which JOHXN"\' DEE has agreed to appear 
briefly. Former Club President BILL RICHARD­
SON '55 is acting as chairman of this committee. 
Universal ND Night will be obser\'ed on Apr­
16 and Co-Cliairmen BILL CASHMAN '60 and 
CHUCK COLLINS *55 have already reserved 
the Plainfield Country- Club for the affair. Tliosc 
who attended Universal ND Night a few years 
ago at the same club will readily attest to the 
fine facilities which are available there. 
Sometime in the late spring the Club will 
hold its annual golf outing and steak roast. Chair­
man D.-\VE COLLINS '56 is already hard at 
work assisted by his committee and we will have 
further word on this enjoj'able outing in our next 
bulletin. 
The Club is also considering the establishment 
of a placement bureau which will act as a clear­
inghouse for a\-ailable cmplo\Tnent for Alumni 
and recent graduates. It is also hoped that the 
bureau wilt be able to assist area students who arc interested in s*jmmer emplojincnt. More on this later. 
Alumni who move into the area served by the Club arc cordially invited to participate in Club actinties and arc urged to call any of the officers or members who can direct them to the proper person for further information. 
—HOWARD J. GILLESPfE 'Si. Vice-president 
^ ^ CENTRAL NEW YORK ^ ^ 
On Sept. 9, a student send-off dinner was held at the Belle\-ue Countr>- Club. Approxi­mately 85 Alumni, students and students' fathers attended this affair. We arc verj- fortunate this year having over 20 students from our area jnatriculating at ND as freshmen. Fourteen of these freshmen are from the greater Syracuse area. In addition to a ver>* inspiring talk by the Rev. Charles Fahcy, assistant director of CathoUc Charities for the S>Tacuse Diocese, all of the guests cnjoved the film of the ND-Navy game of 1964. 
On Oct. 5, approximately 65 Alumni and guests attended a smoker held at McCarthy's Restaurant. In addition to raffling off four tickets to the .Army game, all parties thoroughly enjoyed viewing the 1964 football highlights. 
On Sunday, Dec. 12. 75 Alumni, wives and children gathered at Dniinlins Coyntr>' Club for o-jr annual Communion Breakfast. In keeping with the ecumenical spirit we were verj- fortunate to acquire two outstanding speakers. One was the Rev. Alan Perkins, an ordained Baptist minister. and the other. Father Thomas Wade of the theologj- department of Le^toync College. Each spoke on the effects the recently completed Church council had upon his church in its relation­ship with its opposite member. At the conclusion of these talks an open question period u-as held. The children were treated lo cartoons during these talks. 
—JOHN G. CUDDY JR., President 
CHICAGO 

The conclusion of a successful football season on the campus was marked by a successful Knute Rocknc Award Dinner at Chicago's Sherman House on Monday, Dec. 6. 
A magnificent job as chairman was turned in by TOM CAREY '55, Tom was ably assisted by JOHNN'Y L.-\TTNER '54. Approximately 1200 members of the ND Club of Chicago were on hand as Tom introduced the nominees from 90 Chicago area high schools. Three Rocknc Awards arc given each year to representatives of the three high school areas: Chicago public high school, Chicago Catholic high school and suburban high school. The Rocknc Award is presented to the boy Judged most deserving in his league in the areas of scholarship, athletics and leadership. 
President PAT SH.ANNOX '48 introduced the three winners for 1965: Robert Dinkclman from Chicago's Schurz High School; Michael Hogan (not related to DON HOGxVN '64) from Mendel Catholic High ScIiool; and Bruce Hubbard from the suburban league winning Arlington Heights High School. Each of the three schools was pre­sented with a traveling trophy to be kept for a year, and each of the 90 boj-s was presented a special plaque honoring lilin as an award noniince. 
The three award winners, their coaches and their families can be proud of this achievement. Thcv take their place with such outstanding past award winners as BILL PFEIFFER '63 and DON HOGAN '51. 
Toastmastcr Wally Phillips was his usual hilari­ous self as he ser\'ed up his own variety of after-dinner ribs. He was given a specially inscribed Golden Jefferson electric clock by the Club. 
The featured speaker was TERRY BRE.\.\'A.N'. who addressed his talk to the nominees, and gave them sincere, straightforward advice on the meth­ods of choosing a university. 
A special award was given to CHARLIE C.-\L­LAHAN, In recognition of his loyalty and tre­mendous contribution to ND through his press coverage. 
Coach Ara Parseghian concluded the evening's festivities with a recap of the 1965 season and a preview of the 1966 team. 
Players from this year's team were on hand to welcome the nominees. This year's Captain, Phil Sheridan, and next year's captain, Jim Lynch, were joined by Tony Carey, Nick Eddy, Tom Longo, and Nick and Ed Rassas. 
Former Coach FRANK LEAHY joined FATHER JOYCE, MOOSE KRAUSE and BOB CAHILL. The press corps from the sports departments of Chicago area newspapers and the major wire ser­vices Were also on hand. Camera crews from NBC 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1964 FEBRUARY 
and CBS helped add to the excellent coverage given this event. 
A number of former players were on hand, among them. DAX SHANXO.V '33. DON' SCHAEFFER '55, MARTY \VE.\DELL '•», GEORGE GROBLE '37, FRANK REV.VOLDS '59, and JOHN' McDO.VXELL '58. 
Many other familiar names appeared on the program in the list of coaches of award nominees: Bill Flvnn of Brollicr Rice High School; AX­GELO DABIERO '62 of Carmel High School; X'eal Fichtcl of Mamiion Militarv Academv; -ANDY I'UPLIS '38, Proviso East High School; Bob Ilanlon, Leo High School; and JOE S.-\S­SAXO '34, Weber High School. 
Special thanks go to JOE .VRCHIBALD '50, who handled publicitv, and to KEX SCHUSTER '49. 
The ne-xt event on our social calendar is the annual Communion Breakfast. Chairman is AVALT ROGERS '44, who so capably assisted JACK THORXTOX '44, at last year's successful Com­munion Breakfast. The date for this affair has not been fimdy established but it will be in February-. Wall is hopeful that our new archbishop, John Patrick Cody, will be able to attend. 
—PAT .MONTROY '53. Secretary 


CINCINNATI 
The ratliskdicr of Witjgins Rt!Staurnni provided the atmosphere for the Xotrc Dame Club of Cm­ciiinati's November mctrliiig. Tlie meeting ^*•as a ding-dong as the subject of holding a closed-circuit telecast of the XD-MSU game u-as intro­duced. After much discussion it u-as decided lo go ahead — a ver>' fortunate decision as 1,700 people showed up at Music Hall to watch the battle (and at $+ per person the Scholarship Fund netted a tidy profit). BERT SCilLOEMER, BARRY SAVAGE and CHUCK LIMA put in a tremendous amount of work to make the after­noon at least a financial succe&s. Behind the scenes REES LaBAR and BOB ^IcCAFFERT^'• provided solid support. 
This year's Communion Breakfast was chair­maned by ROBERT FROLICHER and wtjs well attended. About 130 Club members and their families participated In the Mass on Sunday. Dec. 12 in the chapel of Our Lady of Cincinnati Col­lege. Fr. Slritch, college chaplain. ofTered the Mass and afterwards a delightful breakfast was serx'ed in the new student dining room. It was a ver>- pleasant and uplifting affair. 
The Christmas dance was held on Dec. 28 at Lookout House. Hopefully, the Club will receive a visit from .-\ra Parscgluan in the spring. 
—WILLIAM E. BURKE, secretary 
CLEVELAND 
On Sept. 14 at Rohr's Restaurant. JIM GIB­BONS of the ND Alumni ^Vssociation met with the new freshmen to advise them of the many faces and facets of the University, particularly the inno­v'ations of the academic program and the form of the "new University education.'' For the fifth year in succession, tlic new frcs!\men and ihcir dads were hosted by the Alumni Club. 
The 1965 Annual Scholarship Raffle w ^ held at Rohr's on Nov. 9. Co-chairmen of the event were KEN SNYDER and MIKE O'NEILL. Over 60 members enjoyed fihns of the Anny game, and one of our own members. JIM COLLERt\N. won the trip to Miami. Congratulations. Jim! 
The Fifth Annual Rockne Awards Night was held at the Sheraton Hotel on Tuesday, Dec. 7. ROBERT E. DOWD. chairman, WTIS host to over 250 members and guests. Highlight of the evening was an addresi by Ara Parseghian. Awards 

were presented to lO outstanding area high school 
football players by Coach I*arseghian. JOHN P. 
MURPHY gave an Interesting speech about Knute 
Rockne. 
DAN HAMMER and RON MOTTL, co-chair­men of the Annual Christmas Dance held at the Sheraton Cleveland Dec. 10, hosted a prc-cocktail party for officers of the Club. JOHN P. COYNE hosted a cocktail party prior to the dance for members and ttieir friends attending the dance. 
—JOHN P. COYNE, Secretar>­

^^ ^ COLORADO SPRINGS " 
Outgoing officers of the Colorado Springs Club are OTTO HILBERT "34, president; JOE REICH JR. '37, vice-president; and JACK BR.\.\DT '37, secretary-treasurer. Xewly elected officers arc LT. COL. MAL W.^KIX '52, president; BILL DOXEL.\X '29, vice-president; and MAJ. VIXCE R(\YMOXD '55, secretary-treasurer. 
The annual fall business meeting was held at Mai Wakin's home at the Air Force .Academy in late November. Plan, were made for the Communion Sunday and for the Universal ND Night dinner next April. CAIT. CHARLIE 
THE GRAND BALLROOM of the Sherman Hotel was the scene this year of the annual Chicago Club's Rockne Night where more than 1200 area Alumni and friends came to honor the leading high school scholar-athletes. Shown at the immediate top is this year's winner of the outstanding scholar-athlete award in Chicago's Catholic League, Mike Hogan (second from left), full­back from Mendel High School. Making the presentation, from left to right: Johnny Lattner; Ara Parseghian; Tom Carey, chairman of Rockne Night; and Terry Brennan, guest speaker. In the background are Wally Phillips, WGN personality and toastmaster for the affair; and Pat Shannon, Club president. Others honored at the affair included Charlie Callahan, ND's sports publicity director for the last 20 years who departed the University in January to head the public-relations effort of the Miami Dolphins of the American Football League. Pictured at the bottom is Coach Parseghian as he introduces mem­bers of his '65 squad to those in attendance which included more than 100 high school athletes and their coaches. 
,,;.-:> ^r-,r''.|^, 
•• ^' f 1' f 
CLUBS 
SPICKA *54 volunteered to make arrangements for the Communion Bnincli. Our Club obscr\-ed the annua! Communion 

• Sunday on Dec. 12 with Mass at the new Air Force Academy Cliapcl and brunch at the Academy Officers' Club. Though our numbers are small we arc fairly prolific as %ve Iiad about 40 people at Mass and at the brunch. CHAPLAIN (LT. COL.) FRANK GILCHRIST, our new Club chaplain, gave us a brief explanation of the cadet chapel. Familiar faces at the annual affair included BILL DOXELAN, JOE REICH. JR., DR. BOB MAIER '57, FRANK BUHL '33 and family, CHARLIE SPICKA and familv. ANDY WTRICK '57 and familv. VINCE R.\YMOND and family, OTTO HILBERT and family. MAL ^VAKIN and family, JAMES FINN and family, and Father Gilchrist. 
^^ ^ COLUMBUS, OHIO ^^ ^ 
On Aug. 25 the Notre Dame Club of Columbus, Ohio, held its annual reception for new students and their parents at the St. Theresa Retreat House. Club President XHKE HOFFMAi^ '55 introduced the Club officers and welcomed the students to ND. The new students and their parents were able to quiz a panel of students concerning the many aspects of student Hfc. 
On Dec. 4 the Club observed the annual Com­munion Breakfast with Mass at St. Joseph's Cathedral and a family breakfast at the Florentine Restaurant. BOB KOSYD.\R '53 presented a talk concerning the new role of the laity in the Church. 
—BOB OVERMAN, secretary 
DALLAS 

The Christmas season was initiated early this year for Alumni in this area when, on Dec. 10, Ilie Club sponsored a cocktail party. The setting was the gaily decorated home of Mr. and Mrs. 
J. W. SIMMONS JR. Piano Christmas nmsic and XD songs provided a holidav atmosphere for all. FRED EICHORX, president of the Club, chairmancd tlie very successful event. ND wives presented a lovely bufTet of hors d'oeuvTes. 
Masses were celebrated during the month of December in memorv- of Mrs. J. NL H.-VGGAR SR. and ED\V.\RD FURLOW. Both Mni. Haggar and Ed Furlow were lo\-al friends of ND. 
—ED FLENHNG, Secretary 
DEARBORN ^^^^^ 

Our annual golf party lirld tliis year at the Warren Valley Countrj' Club in September was again a huge success. Our loss on the party \os even held to a niinitnum. JERRY KELLY did a great job as chainnan of the event. Among the stalwarts appearing on the links were RAY DeFAinV, BILL DOSM.ANX, CHARLIE KFTZ, JOHN FISH, ED ARCY. BILL DeCRICK, GEORGE BALL, PAUL KLUDI.VG. WALLY McKENN.A, JERRY KELLY and yours truly. 
Due to the great season had by our gridiron 

giants and to the fine efforts of DICK KING 
who took care of all tlie arrangements, our Club 
had a very successful bus trip to South Bend 
for the MSU game. Evcr>'one had a great time 
(excluding the consideration of the outcome of the 
game) and the day was topped off by the group 
enjo>ing dinner at Win Schulers in Marshall. 
Our normal monthly meetings were held in 
October, November and December at the homes 
of RAY DeFAUW, JERRY G.ASS and DICK 
KING, respectively. Thank goodness the meetings 
are starting to end earlier, that i& earlier on the 
following morning rather than later. Ever\'one is 
looking foru-ard to the annual dinner-dance and 
raffle to be held in January. 
—^JIM KLINK '53, Secretary-Treasurer 
DECATUR, ILL. 

J. D. McX.^M.•\RA, president, chairmaned our annual election meeting Oct. 27 when the follow­ing officers and directors for 1966 were elected: President JOE DONOVAN, Mce-President X. NEIERS, Treasurer J. D. DUNN. Secrctar\- S. 
G. GRALIKER, and Chaplain FR. HEINTZ. The directors are J. D. AfcVamara. B. METER, 
J. UHL and BUZZ MORAN. On Dec. 1 President-Elect Joe Donovan con­vened the officers and directors and set the 1966 calendar, marking the second Wednesday of each month as the regular meeting date. J. Dunn was named chairman of the St. Patrick's Day Party, and B. Meter will chainnan the Universal ND Xight festivities April 14. J. BOLEX has been named chairman of the anntial Club outing on June 7, and P. XOLAN will arrange the 1966 Communion Breakfast, Dec. 11. In spite of a shaggy" season's ending, those in attendance at the Dec. 12 Communion Breakfast gave optimistic consideration of the next football 
season. —S. G. GR.-\LIKER, Secretary­
= DENVER 

The summer family picnic w^s held at the Crest-moor Club. A large crowd enjoyed the many activities. Among those present with their wives and families were: DR. PHIL CL.\RKE '44, ALEX C O Q U I L L A R D '40. LEO.XARD HIERATH '36, JIM IIILGER '56, ED M.\­HONEY '52. BOB LAXKENAU '30, AL 0'XIE.ARA '40, GE.NE O'.MEARA '47, JACK RYAX '47, JERRY SMITH '26, JIM RAY '61, JI.M SHEEHAX '50, JUSTI.V HA.N'.VEN '36, P.\T McMAHOX '46, CHARLES O'COXXELL, '57, DR. KARL CHAMBERS '59, GEXE MATH­EWS '49, OSCAR KrVSTEXS '41, DO.V KLEXE '49. and CHUCK BAIER '51. 
On Sept. 15 the Club toured the .Adolph Coots Brewing Co. in Golden, Colo. A good crowd enjoyed the trip through the brewer>''s facilities and the draft beer and dancing that followed. Some of those who attended with their wives were: GEXE M.ATHEWS '49. JOE KELLY '13, CHUCK CARROL '32, P.AT -McMAHOX '46, 
THE FORT WAYNE CLUB held their election.of officers in conjunction with their Dec. 12 observance of Annual Communion Breakfast Sunday. From left to right: Msgr. J. William Lester, Club chaplain; John A. Haley, newly elected Club president; Jerome E. Hipskind, retiring Club president; and Dan M. Steckbeck, newly elected vice-president. 
JERRY SMITH '26, CHUCK O'COXNELL '57, 
LEX HIERATH '36, TOM McIXTYRE '39, 
and JDlf HILGER '56. 
On Jan. 8 the XD basketball team was in Denver 
to play the Air Force Academy in the second 
game of a double-header at the City Auditorium. 
The Club liad a block of tickets for the game 
secured. Following the game the Club hosted a 
party at the Knights of Columbus Hall. 
This fall proved to be another great one for 
Coach BILL HICKEY '58 of Mullen HS, Denver. 
He led his team to another undefeated football 
season. This makes two in a row for Bill. His 
team easily took the Slate Catholic Champioitship 
and many considered his team the best in the 
state of all the public and parochial high schools. 
—JACK DcLlXE, Secrctao-
DETROIT 

Three significant events took place recently. 
First, on Nov. 22, the CUih arranged for closed-
circuit telecasts at Detroit's Cobo Hall Arena 
and at Southfield High School. President JACK 
MURRAY and Co-chainnan BOB BOGG and 
DAN DEVINE combined their efforts to stage 
the shows. As a result, a significant amount of 
money was raised which will be used for scholar­
ships for Detroit area students and/or contributed 
to the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Second, on Dec. 8, many of the members and 
their wives gathered in the Activities Room of 
St. Alexander's Church, Farmington, Mich., for 
the 1965 Universal XD Communion Supper. 
This year the event was a truly unique liturgical 
experience in the form of an "agape" or love 
supper simihr in format to the Last Supper. 
0\*cr 125 people, including some members of 
St. Alexander's parish, gathered for cocktails and 
then sat at candle-lit tables for an outstanding 
gounnct dinner including choice wine. After 
dinner Msgr. William Sherzer, diocesan columnist 
and chairman of the Detroit .Archdiocesan Li­
turgical Commission, gave an address entitled 
'"Vatican II Unleaihcs the Layman.'* Then a 
portable altar was dressed and the EucharistJc 
Feast (Mass and Communion) was celebrated 
by Fr. Joseph Ryder, pastor of St. Alexander. 
Co-chainnen of this event were BOB BOGG and 
BOB ROXEY. 
Third, on Dec. 17, the Club staged its An­nual Christmas Dinner Dance at the Detroit Press Club. Chairman xras MIKE HEGARTY. 
—D.\X KELLY, Secretary-
ERIE = 

As the deadline for this column nears, the Xotrc Dame Club of Erie is finalizing plans for its Universal XD Communion Breakfast. The breakfast this year will be held late in January. Usually our annual Communion Break­fast is held the early part of December but had to be changed this year because the Eric Club had honored guests from the University. 
The Xotre Dame hockey team played the Eric Lions, Dec. 17, and were guests of the Club during their stav here in Erie. BILL GRANT '45, and JOHX McCORMICK JR. '52, were co-chairmen for the event and sure did a splendid job making the team's stay a pleasant one. 
After a tough struggle, the N'olre Dame skaters 
came out on the short end of a 5 to 3 verdict. 
Ever>'one in Erie enjoyed his visit with the 
team after the game, at Cannen's Restaurant, 
where the\" were our guests for dinner. 
Carmen Pacinelli, honorary' '25. and his family of Carmen's Restaurant, sure did their best to make the affair a huge success. They put on a spread that was just out of this world. 
Among those who attended were the ND and Erie Lions hockey teams and the following with their wives: WILLIAM AMANN, JOSEPH BARBER '36, ROBERT BARBER '40, THOMAS BATES '60, Robert Becker, LEO BRUGGER SR. '34, LEO BRUGGER JR. '61, DO.VALD BUSECK '50, LEO OVRXEY '30, Jack Daut, JAMES DWYER '37, JIM EHRM.\X '61, HOWARD J. ESSICK '41. Alexander S. Galla, THOXLAS GALLAGHER '55. Cornelius E. Geary, WILLLAM GRAXT H5, PHILLIP HAGGERT Y *53, EDWARD KERN '56, HERBERT G. KERN '54, ELMER KOHLMILLER '49, Xorbcrt Lewis, JOHX LOCHTEFELD '55. Walter huedtke, ROBERT LUKES '49, JOSEPH MacKRELL '50, JIM ^LAHOXEY '51, Thomas McCarthy. 
JOHX McCORMICK JR. '53, RICHARD McCORMICK '55, Ray McEnery, George Mead, Duane Aliller, Gerald P. O'Connor, Earl T. O'Connor, Paul C. Roche, Robert Roche, LEWIS 
J. SHIOLEXO '49, John Schell, JOHX F. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 

THE ANNUAL COMMUNION BREAKFAST of the Flint, Michigan, Club was held Sunday, December 12, and featured guest speaker Rev. James L. Shilts CSC, who spoke of the new doctoral program for lay as well as religious personnel that will be started in the University's Department of Theology next year. Pictured at the head table, left to right: Theodore Manyak, chair­man of the breakfast; Fr. Shilts; Robert MacDonald, toostmaster; and Fred 
Mansour, Club president. 
SITTERLE 60, Maurice O. Smith. JOSEPH STADLER '53, LAWRENCE STADLER '29, John M. Vaselin, Robert F. Wcsclilcr, ROBERT WI.NSCHEL '51, CHARLES WITTMAX.V '31, Micliael Yarbenct, JOHN S. YOUNG '51. ANTHONY ZAMBROSKI '32, John McCormick Sr., Honorary '17, BRUCE BIGWOOD '62, JOSEPH BLAKE '61. -MIKE .McCOR-MICK '61, JOHN MIESEL '62, JOHN PALMISANO '33, Ativ. THOMAS BARBER '24 and JERRY EHRMAN '63. 
—LEO J, BRUGGER, Secretar>­


FLINT, MICH. 
Rev. JAMES L. SHILTS CSC, assistant pro­fessor of phj-sics at Notre Dame, spoke Sunday, Dec. 12, at the Annual Communion Breakfast of the ND Club of Flint. 
The breakfast was at Sledniau's Restaurant and followed a M.iss in the St. Joseph Hospital chapel in Flint. 
Father Shilts offered the Mass for the members of the Club and their guests and gave the address at the breakfast. Father told of the new doctoral program for lay people in Catholic doctrine that will be offered at ND. It will be the first time this course will be open to lay people who are seeking their doctoral in theological theories. 
The program was highlighted by a visit of Santa Claus for the youngsters and other entertainment handled by THEODORE MANYAK. ROBERT MACDONALD (toaslmaster), FRED M.VNSOUR (president), PAUL HUGHES and WILLIAM F. MINARDO. 
—«'ILLIA.M F. MI.VARDO, Secretary 
FT. LAUDERDALE 
The UND Communion Breakfast w-as the most successful in our Club's Iiisiorj'. It w^is, in ad­dition, a tribute to BILL MOTTSETT '34, chninnan, who contributed no little amount of time and cfTort only to be in tlic hospital the Sunday of the breakfast. HENRY URUSKI, father of ANDY "S.P." URUSKI '6S, who was to assist Bill, u'as also hospitalized. Our speaker was the REV. JOSEPH J. KERSHNER, new principal of bo>'5 at Cardinal Gibbons High School. 
Some of our members present at the breakfast were: TOM NOLAN '44 and his two sons; DR. BILL FINIZZI M5 and his two-year-old !On; three generations of the Maus family in­cluding BILL MAUS SR., BILL MAUS JR. '53 and TOM MAUS '57; DON DORINI '53 and son; CHARLIE BACHMAN '17; WILLARD MOSS; CHARLIE RUDD '54 and son; DR. FRANK OTT and sons; JOHN L. CALLA.N '21; JOHN C. SULLIVAN '31; TOM SULLIVAN '48 and sons; TED GORE '50*and sons; and GEORGE GORE *48 and sons. 
In an election held early in December the 

Club elected its new officers for 1366: President 
DOB BL.AIKIE '56; Vjcc-Presidcnt BILL DAILY 
'28; Secretary JIM MOTTSETT '64; Treasurer 
CHARLIE RUDD '54. New directors are: FR.-\NK 
CAREY '46 and ED TROMBETTA '60. 
Our Club was quite pleased to hear that FR.\NK ifcGLVN '52 had been nominated as a candidate for a director of the Alumni Association. Frank is an outstanding member of our Club and past president. 
We are reluctant to mention the Miami game but it uns the occasion for one of our biggest social events in years with over 400 people attending our buffet and cocktail party, and traveling to the game in one of 10 busses. A tip of tlie green hat to TOM WALKER '42, chairman of the event, as well as to TOM SUL­LIVAN '48 and CHARLIE OLWELL for their \-aluable assistance. 
On behalf of the members of the ND Club of Fort Lauderdale I take this opportunity to wish all Alumni, Club members and friends a very happy and successful new year. 
—BOB BL.MKIE, Ret. Secretarj­

^^ ^ FT. WAYNE, IND. ^^^ = 
The ND Club of Ft. Wayne held the annual Coinmunion Breakfast and installation of officers Sunday, Dec. 12. at the St. Vincent's Villa chapel and, aflemards, at the Hotel Keenan. .New officers are: President JOH.N' A. HALEY '51, Vice-President DAN .M. STECKBECK "57, Secretan." ROBERT BARBIERI '53 and treasurer TIIO-MAS A. GRIMMER '57. 
Msgr. J, U'iniani Lester, cJub chaplain, cele­brated the Mass and spoke at the dinner. 
: INDIANAPOLIS 

The ND CJub of Indianapolis held its Annual Communion Breakfast on Sunday, Nov. 28 at Cathednl High School, following Mass in Sts. Peter and Paul Cathedral. 
Hb Excellency Paul D. Schulte, archbishop of Indianapolis and just back from Vatican Council II, addressed the Aluntni and friends with a few words about the marvelous workings of the Council and its present and future efTect upon the world. Father Patrick Smith of Marian College delivered the principal talk. 
At tlie breakfast we had a special award presentation in conjunction with the ND Cen­tennial of Science. The University honored about 50 outstanding scientists from the University and around the country with two Indianapolis men selected for this award. Presented by Dr. Ernest 
L. Eliel, head of the department of chemistry at ND, the a«-ards were given to Dr. Frank £. Cbbk. head of research at Rcilly Tar and Chemical Corp. and Dr. Arthur L. Kranzfelder, director of process research for Eli Lilly & Co. 
CLUBS 

CHARLES G. WAGNER '54 was duunnan of the Communion Breakfast. He was assisted hf GERALD R. MAHON *47. THOMAS J. MURPHY '54 and DONALD B. WALZ '56. 
The Alumni Club held its first annual football banquet to a full house at the I.A.C. on Dec 13. The affair was highlighted with att inspiring talk by Ara Parseghian who reviewed tlus last season and prc\*icwcd what is in the future for the team. We felt honored in having so many notables from the University in attendance at this banquet. 
"MOOSE" KRAUSE told us for the first time Iiow lie beat Butler in basketball while lying on the court. Tom Piagna brought the house down with his imitations of coaches. PETE DURANKO, NICK EDDY and NICK RASS.'\S spoke for the team. CHARLIE CALLAHAN gave hU fareweU speech to the Alumni; wc will all miss him. Abo in attendance were BOB CAHILL, Doc Urich and Paul Shoults. The most valuable players from the Indianapolis Catholic high schools were intro­duced by their coaches. Chairman BOB WELCH '50 did another excellent job for the Club. He also scr\'cd as toastmaster. 
—BOB K.ANE, Secretary 

^^ ^ KANSAS CITY, MO. ^^ ^ AND KANSAS 
On Dec. 5, the Notre Dame Club of Kansas City celebrated their annual Communion Sun­day. Chairman this year, CHARLES FRIZZELL '50, emphasizing the importance of the family praying together, drew the largest attendance in the historj- of this event. The Mass, celebrated by Fn JAMES H. FLANAGAN *47 in the chapel of St. Teresa's Academy, was follow^ by a breakfast prepared by the Sisters of St. Teresa's. 
Under the super\tsion of JAMES DeCOURSEY '54, plans arc rapidly movins ahead lor a ND Sports Night to be held on Feb. 10 in the Schliu Brown Bottle Room. Featured that night will be the filmed highlights of the 1964 footbaU season narrated in person by D.WE MARTIN of Kansas City, presently a sophomore student at Notre Dame and first string corner linebacker in the 1965 season. Entertainment will include the Merry Mugs, a local barbershop quartet. The event, which promises to be a most enjoy­able occasion, will include dinner. ND .-Uimini, friends of the University and their families arc cordblly invited to attend. 
In conclusion, we should like to extend our 
thanks to JIM HIGGINS '53 for the splendid 
effort that went into making the Kansas City 
charter flight to the ND-Miami game the success 
that it ^\-as. 
—^^CHAEL J. HOGAN, Secretary 
KENTUCKY= 

The ND Club of Kentucky under BILL SHER­
yiAy has had a banner year. We have raised moi^ 
money than any previous year. This is due to the 
closed-circuit telecast of the ND-MSU football 
game, and ROGER HUTER's tremendous schol­
arship fund raflBe. 
Our last meeting at Big Springs Country Club on 
Oct. 20 u-as an informative one. DICK RUWE 
from the University Foundation discussed Chal­
lenge II. 
The Family Communion Dinner on Dec 8 was ver>' successful with 40 couples attending at St. Mary Magdalene's Church and for dinner at the Holiday Inn afterwards. DAVE SCHOEN was chairman and should be commended for the cicellent job. 
—JOHN HUBBUCH, Secretary 
LOS ANGELES 

This year's Communion Breakfast was unique for the Lj\ Club in that it was on the feast of the Immaculate Conception, Dec. 8, not a Sunday, and was a dinner, rather than breakfast. In ad­dition, there was no Joint Mass for the members and their families. Instead, all were urged to attend in their respective parishes and then assemble for dinner at the Roger Young Restaurant Auditorium. 
Thomas H. A. Le\m was the guest speaker. .-V weII-kno\%-n executive in the fields of radio, television, motion pictures and theater, Mr. Lewis spoke on "The Church in Modem Communi­cations." 
George Balzer, a writer for Jack Benny for more than 23 years, was the master of ceremonies. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 

CLUBS 
^ ^ McHENRY COUNTY, ILL. ^ ^ 
The Notre Dame Club of McHcnr>- County obscncd Universal ND Communion at a special Mass at St. Mar>-'s Minor Seminary- at Cr\-stal Lake on Sunday, Dec. 12, followed by a breakfast. Alumni attending were: President TOM PARSLEY '54, GEORGE COSTELLO MO, ^VILLIAM DESMOND '02, JIM ST.^HL '56. OLIVER FIELD '31, JOHN COSTELLO '4S, JOE COXERTY JR. '44, LEO J. POWERS '25 and JOH.V CORRIC-V-V '33. 
Guests were: Joseph Conerty Sr., Rudy Schuc*­sler, Arthur Desmond, Harr>' Oilman, John Cosicllo Jr. and Tim Costcllo. 
Father Alexander OFM of St. Mar\'s Minor 

Seminary celebrated the Mass and discussed the 
topic of Catholic education at the breakfast. 
—JOSEPH A. CONERT\' JR., Sccntao" 

^^^^ NEW MEXICO ^^^ ^ 
The Notre Dame Club of New Mexico had their gamc-uTitch for the Southern Califomia-ND game, Oct. 23, in .-Mbuquerquc at the home of JOSEPH H. STUE\'^ER. Joe is the vice-president of the Club. It utts a good turnout for the game and obviously a ver>' enjoy-ablc time was had, especially considering the outcome of the game. 
Simultaneous to that party xs'as a ganjc-^ratch in Hobbs where the New Mexico Bar .Association was having their convention. THOMAS FOY of Silver City, JIM JEN.M.VGS of Ros^vcll and D.-\VID KELSEY and his uife, Marlene, as well as other ND friends had their own T\''-watching party. 
The Club Comm-jnion Breakfast was held on Dec 5, and the .•\lunini and friends Iiad a private Mass in the chapel of Si. .Anthony's Home for Bo>-s. Wc then liad a breakfast at the AK^arado Hotel which was arranged by ND alumnus manager JIM RY.AN. Father Benedict Cuesta. who was at ND in 1960-61, was the speaker, with the Ecumen­ical Council as Iits topic. QUE.VTI.V .MJSCHKE '53 was the breakfast chainnan. Over 30 people attended the breakfast. 
—D.WTD H. KELSEY, Sccrctarv­
^NEW ORLEANS = 

Televising the ND-Southern Cal. game was a great success from the viewpoint of the team and Alumni pride; the New Orleans Chib, however, had a less than successful luncheon-telecast. Every­one in attendance had a marvelous time con­sidering the superb food and the fans in at­tendance, but the Club treasury' took a beating. It seems that over SO people made reser\-ations, but only 56 showed up. 
One of the high spots of the function was the 

turnout of the CSC's in the New Orleans area. 
Among those in attendance were Fathers Ciatio, 
Riehic, Dark, and last, but definitely not least, 
that talented ex-author of student directives, Fr. 
A. Leonard Collins. 
Some of the faithful Alumni in attendance were: JULES DE LA VERGNE '33. ARTHUR D.WIDSO.V '38. P.AT BOOKER '62, JOE DROLLA JR '63, JACK MARTZELL '61, JIM SMITH '50, and JIM ;\TSOCKI '61. 
—J.AMES CARRIERE, Secretarv­

"" NEW YORK CITY ^^^ 
.A ver\* successful closcd-citcuit T\ ' program 

of the Michigan State-Notrc Dame game has added 
additional funds to our scholarship fund. Our 
club president, GORDON FORESTER '47, and 
CAS VANCE '38 were co-chairmen of this 
function. 
Tlie annual Communion dinner was held on Dec. 

8, with a 5:30 Mass at St. Patrick's Cathedral 
followed by dinner in a private dining room at 
SchrafTt's Fifth Avenue. Co-chalmien J.ACK HO^T 
'33 and JIM GRIFFIN '47 secured Msgr. Edwin 
Brodcrick, rector oi Su Joseph's Seminar}-, as the 
principal speaker. Honored guests were D.AN 
O'NEIL '25, originator of the annual c\ent, and 
Judge WILLI.AM WALSH '97, one of the oldest 
living Alumni. 
Also honored for distinguished service to the 

Alumni and the Univcrsitv were BERNARD 
GARBER '28, HARVEY FOSTER '39, DR. 
FR.ANK MARTIN '45, GERALD SAEGERT '40, 
and EDWARD NE.AHER '37. Each was pre­
sented with a framed certificate for distinguished 
service. 
—PAT KENNEALLY, Secretary­

^ ^ NORTHERN CALIFORNIA ^ ^ 
The rally before the U. of Califomia-Notre Dame game was held at tlic Palace Hotel's Garden Court on Friday night. Sept. 17. 
The rally was dedicated to ND men who have been active In coaching college football in the Bay .Area. 
Present to receive a memento of the occasion were ^LAL ELW.ARD, teammate of Knutc Rockne and former assistant coach at Stanford University; JOE RUETZ , guard in the Layden era and coach at St. Mar>'s College and Stanford; BODIE .ANDREWS, captain-elect of the ND 1918 team and assistant coach at St. M3r>''s College and University of California; SLIP ^LADIG.AN, center under Rockne and famed coach of St. Mar>*'s College; and honored in absentia, BUCK SHAW, tackle under Rockne and coach of several col­leges and professional teams including Santa Clara's famous Sugar Bowl Team. 
Tlie event w-as attended by about 1,000 Alumni and friends. 
Guest speakers included the Hon. John F. Shelly, mayor of San Francisco; FR.ANK LEAHY, fonncr coach of .ND; "MOOSE'" KR.AUSE; Pete Newell, athletic director of the U. of California; and the Rev. THO.MAS J. O'DONNELL CSC. Music was pronded by Walt Tollcson's popular orchestra. The San Francisco Irish Bag Pipe Band. Entertainers »i'erc songstress Toni Lee Scott and folk singer Rod McKuen. 
Club President ED M.ADIG.AN acted as master of ceremonies. 
.A postgamc reception held at the Hotel Claremont in Berkeley was attended by several hundred joyful rooters. A highlight of this re­ception was the ver>- colorful Irish Pipers Band who Inspired sonic spontaneous Irish dancing. 
Tlie ND Club of Northern California appreciates the efforts of the rally committee which included ED MADIG.AN '54, TOM KERN.AN '55, JOE BOIVIN *54, BILL McGOW.AN '41, ED MANS­FIELD '34. BILL SHERMAN '49, JOE SAIDY '49, L.ARRY F.ARMER '56, TOM CAHILL '5B, NORB KRAFT '53 and the many others that helped at the rally. 
= OHIO VAUEY^ 

The Ohio Valley ND Club held a TA'^ Party at the Betty Zane room of Wilson Lodge, Ogle-bay Park to watch the ND-Soulhem Cal. game on Oct. 23. The following members and guests attended: 
BOB SINCAVICH '50. BOB GRIFFITH '49. Kenneth Henn.-, FRANK WALLACE '23, BILL .MrrSCH '33, JOE SARGUS '49, JLM D.AILER '50, BILL HOGAN '51. HARRY BUCH '52, -MIKE .MORUCCI 'G4, JOH.V ROBI.VSO.N '47. Eddie Mamc, Bill Flynn, John Maier, Homer Black. 
A good time was had by all and the final score triggered a rex'iv-al of ND songs with Joe Sargus at the piano. 
The ND Club of the Ohio Valley obser\ed ND Communion Sunday on Dec. 12. Mass was cele­brated by Rev. Hilarion Cann of the Diocese of Wheeling at Mt, Caniiel Monasterj". after which a breakfast meeting was held at Elby's Restaurant. Father Cann had just returned from the closing of the A^atlcan Council in Rome and his infonnal remarks were both interesting and instructive. 
—BILL MITSCH, Secretarj-treasurer 

^^^ OMAHA AND ^^^ COUNCIL BLUFFS 
The j-car's past events liave been busy ones that started with the Freshman Send-oft consisting of a golf stag and picnic on Sept. 9. Beginning freshmen and their dads were guests of honor. "Duke," father of GREG SCH.AT2 '69, \oIked away with most of the golf prizes. WARRE.V YOUNGSTROM '55, chainnan of the event, made his best move In getting JIM BUCKLEY '53 to super\-isc the food. Jim qulcklv latched onto LOU CIMI.VO '47, father of DICK '69 and R.AY '67, as well as LOU FINNOCHIARO '53 to do the cooking, and without them no one would have eaten as well as ever^'onc did. .AU the new frosh, JOHN DEWEY, PAUL McCANT)LESS. DENNIS "SKIP" O'KEEFE, GREG SCH.ATZ and DICK Cl.MI.VO ate as well as the older grads who had their training in the old dining hall. Approximately 85 attended this event. 
Next, and unscheduled in the plans, w-as the sponsorship of a closcd-circuit television showing of the ilSU-ND game in the Omaha Civic Auditorium. This was done on about six da^V 
DAVID P. WARD, ND sophomore, receives the annual It. James A. Cassidy Memorial Award for Aca­demic Achievement at the ND Club of Peoria's annual Back-to-School Dinner. Presenting the award is John 
E. Cassidy Sr. LIB '17, father of the late ND campus leader for whom the award is named. Club president, Dr. George Best '38, is at far right. Dr. Edward Cronin, asst. dean of the Freshman Year of Studies, was prin­cipal speaker. 
advance nolicc. Through the close cooperation of JI.M COOXEY in the Aliimni Office, as well as ED "MOOSE" KRAUSE. cvervthing wlorked out verj- nicclv. TOM WALSH '42, president, and officers BOB ROHLING '50, JIM KI.NEEX '59 and J.ACK CARPENTER '58 rejwrted a finan­cial success from tlieir padded cells. >faking the ticket sales and assuring the success were L. E. .McGinn, father of ptuiter DAN" '66, WALT McCOURT '42. D. HUGHES WILCOX '52, LOU FI.X.VOCHIARO '33. JACK FOLEY '44, BOB ROHLI.VG "50. JI.M K1XEE.V '59, EM.METT ROOT 'SS. JI.M BUCKLEY '53, M.ATT FLI.\.\ '42, JI.M REG.VN '38 and Morric Olsen, father of DAX '67 and TOM '68. 
Afore recent, the anntiat Communion Breakfast was held Dec. 8 with a private Mass in Our Lady of Nebraska Chapel at St. Cecilia's Cathe­dral followed by £ome good food at the Coin­niodorc Hotel. Jack Carpenter '58 attended to all the arrangements resulting in an excellent turnout. 
—J.\MES KINEEN, Secretary-
OREGON 

Extending the tradition of the annual Notre 
Dame Communion observance beyond the oiice­
a-ycar gathering was the challenge proposed by 
REV. GLEN R. BOAR.MAN CSC, Club chaplain, 
at the Oregon Club's Communion Breakfast, held 
in the U. of Portland's Commons and attended 
by 23 members with children and guests. 
Noting the widespread reception of the Holy 
Eucharist by families in their parirh churches, 
Fr. Boaniiari suggested the establishment of 
"dialogue groups" as perhaps a better way for 
ND men and their families to come together and 
discuss the pertinent problems of the day and the 
Christian approach to their solution. He offered 
his services as consultant and felt sure other 
Holy Cross Fathers would be happy to meet 
reasonable demands on their time. Already one 
or two groups have responded to Fr. Boannan's 
invitation. This t\i)c gathering could do much to 
foster the ND spirit among Alumni. Other class 
and area groupings are urged to contact Fr. 
Boanuan at the U. of Portland. 
Sharing the spotlight with Fr. Boaniian were BILL SCHMITT '10 and DO.M CALLICR.\TE '08 who gave an account of their recent motor trip to the Anny game in New York while taking in three other games en route. PETE SANDROC K '39 paid tribute to the splendid example of these two veteran Club members in their faithfulness at ND functions. Using crutches due to a hip injurj' a couple of years ago, Bill, nevertheless, is alwa^'s on hand and in his usual good humor. 
ALUMNUS JANUARy 1966 FEBRUARY 


CUIBS 

The third member of this venerable trio, DR. 
WILLIAM SHEA '02, was unable to attend 
because of illness. He wTis represented by his 
faithful sister and a neighbor, Mrs. Mulbn, a real 
ND fan. 
Welcomed to their first Club affair were DR. 
JAMES EUSTERMAX '56, a second-year restdcHt 
in surger>' at the U. of Oregon Medical School, 
and JACK T. RODGERS '52, new to Portland 
with Shell Oil Co. as district sales manager. Jack 
had the good fortune to sandwich a business 
trip to Sew York between the X. Carolina and 
Michigan State games. Jack and his wife had not 
missed a home ND game since 1954 until his 
transfer here. JOHN DAVID BURNS '58 is now 
in prix-ate law practice at 815 S.W. 5th Avenue, 
Portland, Imving left the Multnoman County 
district attorney's oHicc after three years' scrx'ice. 
ART SCHULTE JR. '52 h-is taken over as dean 
of the School of Commerce at U. of Portland 
replacing the late Ed Smith. New on Art's faculty 
is GEORGE E. MACK HI '61 who is an instructor 
in accounting. George for three years was with one 
of the largest CPA firms in the city. DENNIS 
J. MCLAUGHLI N '56 is .issociatcd with Magulre, Boles, Stanton & Church, one of the Northwest's bcst-known architectural finns. having completed his studies at U. of Oregon this spring. 
Most recent graduate in our ranks is FR.\NK OFFNER JR. '65. Welcome, Frank, and best of Itick In your career. Belated welcome to ROBERT P, CLARK BA '63, ^fA '&*, now on the sociolog>" faculty at U. of Portland. We look forA\'ard to meeting you soon. Bob. 
—TOM MAGEE. Secretary-
PHILADELPHIA ^^^^ 

High spot in a busy Club year under hard-driving President WILLIAM A. WHITESIDE JR. '51 ^%-as the closed-circuit telecast of the Michigan State-ND football game. More than 3,000 alumni and followers jammed the PhiLidelphia Hotel to watch the program, conceived and arranged bv GEORGE MITCHELL JR. '58. 
The club excursion to New York for the Array game, supervised by JACK HENRY, brought 2,000 from Philadelphia to Shea Stadium. 
The air excursion to Miami for the season's final game, arranged by R.-\Y WELNM.\N.\ '&4. enabled 60 CP-'b members and friends to enjoy a happy five-day holiday marred only by the outcome of the football game. 
The year's end was saddened bv the death of Rev. THOMAS C. DUFFY CSC '20, chaplain of the Philadelphia Club for more than two decndes-
Our new chaplain is Rev. JOSEPH .M. H.-\Y­DEN '44, pastor of St. Joseph's Church in Swedesboro, X.J. Father Haydcn's inaugural came when he celebrated the Club's Family Communion Mass in the Cathedral Chapel, Dec. 5. More than 100 Club members attended the Mass and then met for breakfast at the Sheraton Hotel where our guests from the University were JOE YOXTO of the football ctiach-ng siafF and REV. THOMAS J. O'DONNELL CSC. 
First function planned for the new year is a stag party at which the winner of the Club's Knulc Rockne Memorial Award will be announced. Cliairman JOHN J. HANNIG.\.V '41 of the com­
mittee which nominates the outstanding scholar-
athlete in the Delaware Valley enlisted advisory-
committees of seven high school coaches and 
seven Valley prep sporlswriters to help pick 
the winner. The first two winners since the eligibil­
ity field was broadened from the Philadelphia 
Cafholtc League to encompass the entire Delaware 
Valley are now at Notre Dame. JOHN 
PERGINE '68, who won the award two years 
ago, plaved on Ara Parseghian's 1365 team, and 
BILL BARTHOLOMEW '69 was on the frerh­
inan squad after winning the award a year ago. 
The new Club constitution, rewritten by P.-\T 
KIITREDGE '58, w^s adopted by the Club mem­
bers in October, and Pat was given a vote of 
thanks for a difficult job well done. 
^fore than 1,200 books were donated by Chib 
members for the new ND Library- at a Library 
Night eariy in the fall. BART JOHNSON '48 is 
spearheading a campaign which has kept a steady 
stream of books moving into the Club offices ever 
since. 
—JA.MES T. GALL.\GHER, Secretary-
ROCHESTER, N.Y. = 

The ND Club of Rochester has awarded its first 
scholarship to David Hennessy, son of Club mem­
ber BERNARD HENNESSY. The Club plans to 
award the scholarship annually. 
Dec. 17 w:as the Club's annual Christmas dinner-
dance at the Starlight Roof of the Hotel Sheraton. 
The Rochester Club \%'as one of 20 ND clubs 
around the country that sponsored a closed-circuit 
telecast of the ND-.MSU game Nov. 20. The Roch­
ester Club held Its telecast in the Rochester War 
Memorial, with proceeds going to their scholarship 
fund. 

= ROME = 

Before the Vatican 11 Council closedi many bisliops wljo had utilized the ND Hospitality Center dropped in to express llieir thanks. One, Bishop Thomas Manning OFM, Brazilian missionary, left us a tiandsome and historic gift: his while miter u-hich lie wore for the opening and close of tlic Council. 
Another ahimntis added to the resident Rome 
roster is JOHN' MORFORD 'G3. An arclutcclurc 
grad, Jolui is here to study painting. A fonncr 
resident in Torino, HAROLD XMYER '5G, lias 
moved to Naples. 
Leaving Rome to studv at XD is Fr. BER.VARD DO.N'AGHEY SVD. Fonner "Roman" LUIS SUMMERS '61 favored us with an invitation to his September wedding at the University, where he is a graduate student in engineering. 
In our Pennant Den, added to the 110 pennants from other schools sent on initiative of their vbit­ing alumni, are these recent ones: Loyola of Chi­cago, St. John's of Brooklyn, St. Xorbert's, Port­land, Portland, Wisconsin, Xcw Rochelle, St. Fi^n­cis in Indiana, Illinois, St. Joseph's in ^laryland, St. Teresa in Minnesota and Ohio Wesleyan. 
X'otrc Dame Council guests, of whose perfor­mance in Rome related to Vatican II we were proud: ProL JOHX XOOX.\X of the XD Law-School, and PAT 0'.MEAR.A, development director. 
THE TRADITIONAL COMMUNION OBSERVANCE together with the presenta­tion of two Centennial of Science Awards highlighted the Indianapolis Club's Nov. 26 Annual Communion Breakfast. Seated at the main table from left to right: Dr. Frank E. Cislak, award winner; Or. Ernest L Eliel, head of the Uni­versity's chemistry department; Dr. Arthur L. Dranzfelder, award winner; His Excellency, Paul D. Schulte, archbishop of Indianapolis; Richard F. McNamara, Club president; Charles G. Wagner, breakfast chairman; and Rev. Patrick Smith, principal speaker. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
Center for .Applied Research in The Apostolate, 
Washington, D.C. Our Rome Club chaplain, Fr. 
EDWARD HESTON CSC, received rousing appausc 
from the press as he concluded his final news 
briefing session on the Council. 
And since last issue, we've hfisted these: TOM 
CARNEY '37, new president of the Alumni A:so­
ciation (our first Frexy as guest). Then a female 
ND "man," XORAH EDELMAXX '63. JOHN 
DOBIE '66; ED BURKE '65; ProL PAUL BAR­
THOLOMEW '29 and wife; TOM McMANNON 
'66 (son of JOHN '26, tackle and nephew of 
ART "29, tackle); JI.M KEE '66; Dr. GORDON 
DiRE.\ZO AB '56 MA '57, PhD '63 and Grand­
dad; KEN LISS '67; Ann, daughter of G. CLE.M­
ENS THEISEN '32; JOHN WOULFE '28 and 
wife; BILL WELNSHEI.MER '62 and wife; Dr. 
WALTER GR<\Y PhD '59, former faculty member, 
here with Loyola, Rome; CHARLES MacKAY 
.MA '61; RICK SHEAH.-\X '64 MA "66; Sr. 
Michaelin CSC of the St. Joe Hospital, South 
Bend; Srs. Dolores and X'azareta CSC of the Holv 
Cross Hospital, Jacksonville, 111.; PETE JAN­
DRISEVITS '59, brother of RUSS '64 presently 
at XD for MS '66; JI.M DRURY '64; Kathy (at 
Loyola, Rome), daughter of JOHN QUINN '30, 
sister of JOHN' '55; FR^WCIS CHING '65; BOB 
MacDONALD '64 MA '65, son of BOB '28 with 
brothers JOHN '58 and JAY '66; brother of 
DOUGL,\S '62 and LANCE DRANE '65; JIM 
COLLINS '32: parents of RAY HURLEY '61; Dr. 
JACK SOUCY '57 and wife; aunt of MIKE '62, 
AL '63, HAROLD '65, D.WE '67, MAGNOTTA 
and of AXTHON"Y CALDERONE '63; Joanne 
Fortune (at Loyola, Rome) niece of Br. FERGUS 
BURNS CSC '35; ED HOB.AN '48: father of 
MIKE WILLIAMS '68; father of CHRIS BUCK­
LEY, Student Body Piciy '62, and MARK '68; 
FR.-\NTC REILLY '37; DON MURRAY '59: Sister 
of JOHN DELEHANT '68; Fr. A. MELOCHE, 
faculty 1958-63; Gen. JOH.N CALIAiN '21 and 
wife; wife of HARRY SCOTT '17, deceased; and 
mother of HARRY JR. '42, deceased; grandmother 
of -MIKE FLYNN '67; sister of ED CHOENSKI 
'61: co.isin of JEFF KOCH '66. 
Sister of Fr. CHARLES GERWELS CSC '63; JOHN TRYCANO '54 and wife; TOM SN^YDER '51. brother of JOHN '50 and P.AT '57: BOB BIOLCHIXI '62; BILL WILDERS '62; FR,\NK M.\TARSKY '35: father of JOHN SHOWELL 
•61: TERRY MARTLV '61; cousin of DICK KAUFFMANN '61; mother of DON '59 and GREG GILLIES '60; Judge BILL JONES '28 and wife: BOB CRO.NIN '37 and wife; Fr. .AL­BERT SCIILITZER CSC, faculty; aunt of TOM PLU.VKETT '66; D.AN GALLAGHER '63; mother of GREG BY.N.AX '61; LARRY O'CONNOR '30, father of L.ARRY' '65 and daughter Peggy at SMC; JOHN R.ALEIGH '31: TERENCE O'SHAUGH­NESSY. faculty 1930-52; Sr. J. BAPTIST WAL­LACE IHM .MA '63, daughter of JOH.V WAL­LACE '26, a right end under Rockne, and sister of Sr. JE.\.\ VIAN.NY CSC PhD '64; Sr. E.\H­LEXE ZEXXER OSF MA '56: son of JOHN BUCKLEY '38; JIM BEMIS '63; REX FITCH '65: Fr. A. XEFF CSC; DICK ^HLES '64; JOHX LIXEHAX '61; JOHX LEONARD '53 and wife: WILL HIGHFIELD svith wfe, MARY, SMC '63, MAT at XD '64; JIM XORRIS '64 .MA '65: Sr. AGXETA GAXZEL OSF MA '58. 
And then came that loyal Vogel family, our Hos­pitality Center's Pittsburgh boosters: LEO VOGEL SR. '17 and wife (SMC '18), LEO JR. '49 and wife, JIM '51 and wife, and Mary Vogel Kelly S.XfC '47 with husband. 
Last but "the greatest," ED MOOSE KRAUSE and wife over to visit ED Jr. in Holy Cross Seminary. 
A rrcenllv discovered XDer living in Naples: Xavy Lt. J. CU.MMIXGS '60. 
Notre D.ime Hospitality Center, Largo Bran<:ac­eio 82, TEL 730.002, holds open house every day of the year. Come in and collapse. 
—VI.NCE .McALOON '34, Secretary 
SAGINAW VALLEY MICHIGAN 

Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday u-as held Dec. 5, with the members of the Club at­tending ^fass and Holy Communion at St. Stephen Church, Saginaw, Mich. Breakfast and a business meeting were held after Mass at the Holiday Inn. 
Father Mahoncy, [lastor of St. Stephen Church, was the Club guest of honor, and CARL DOOZ.\N spoke at length on the interesting subject of estab­lishing a Saginaw Valley ND Scholarship Fund. BILL HENDRICK ser\'ed as program chairman. 
—UAWRENCE .^. SMITH, President 
CLUBS 
ST. LOUIS = 
TIic annual football trip for the St. Loais Club 
was handled this year by JOE McGLYXX '55. 
Fifty-eight people bearded the train for the South-
cm California game and all tlie accompan>-ing 
festivities. The outcome of the game more tlian 
compensated for inclement utather. Everj'onc had 
a wonderful time, and a great deal of credit should 
go to Joe McGK-nn for a fine organizational job. 
TIic Communion Breakfast was a wonderful affair 
again this vear with more tlian 100 people attend­
ing. CHARLES WITTENBERG '57 was chairman 
of the breakfast. The Alumni and their families 
attended Mass at the Old Cathedml, and breakfast 
was served at the new- Crest House Restaurant. Oar 
guest speaker was the Rc\'. JOSEPH KOHLER 
who brought us up-to-date on the work he and his 
assocbtes arc doing to rehabilitate many of the 
poor in the housing projects of our city. Through 
empliasis on family life and human dignity Father 
Kohlcr has helped over 35 families during the past 
year to become responsible citizens who are an as­
set to the community. Through a credit union 
which Father Kohlcr helped to establish, these 35 
families — all of whom pre\'ioasly lived in public 
housing and were on government aid — are now 
bu>'ing tlicir own homes. Everyone in attendance 
at the Communion Breakfast appreciated the op­
portunity to hear such a fine explanation of a ver>* 
worthy cause. 
Tlic Alumni and their friends got the Christmas holiday season off to an early start with a Christ­mas cocktail party organized by JIM COMBS *46. The part>- «-3s held on Sunday afternoon, Dec. 19, at the beautiful Tiarra Room on top of the Park Plaza Hotel. 
The members of tlic St. Louis Club hope iliat 
the Alumni everywhere Iiad a vcr>- Merry Christ­
mas and extend their wishes that all will enjoy a 
happy and prosperous Nc%v Year. 
—JOE DAXTER '58, Secretary-Treasurer 
^^s SAN DIEGO, CALIF. ^^ = 
President MARV RICKLI.VG '32 hosted an in­formal *'radio lally" at hb home for the "game of the year" against Michigan State. After the game a rather subdued business meeting u-as held at whicli Treasurer CHUCK VANDEGRIFT '56 announced tliat paid Club membersliip of 72 had set a new record for this time of year. 
On Dec 5 tlic Club observed Universal ND Communion Sunday by attending Mass in a body at Blessed Sacrament Church. ^la&s was celebrated by the Club Chaplain Rt. Rev. Msgr. FRANCIS C. Oil ' '15, Communion breakfast was held at the Camp.:s Chuck Wagon. JOHN MORGAN '40 was chairman of tlic e\'cnt. 
—DONALD G. "YECKEL '55, Sccretarv-
SPOKANE, WASH.^^^ 
A number of the Club members attcndi-d the annual retreat at Immaculate Heart Retreat House during the weekend of Oct. 15. Pa^ionist Father Finan Storey uas the retreat master, and those ivlio failed to attend missed a most inspiring ex­perience. It is hoped next year's turnout will be 

more in the traditional Notre Dame manner. 
Tliis year, two football TV parties were Iield, 

both at the home of Mrs. Robert Rotchford, mother 
of Dr. JIM ROTCHFORD '48, who liad graciously 
invited liie Club to \new on her color T\ ' the Cali­
fornia and the Southern California games. Both 
were well attended, and all present enjoyed the 
games and the brunch which was served by Mrs. 
Rotchford between halves. 
Universal Communion Sunday was obscn'ed on 

Dec. 5 when members attended Mass in Our Lady 
of Lourde; Cathedral. Guest speaker at the break­
fast in the Ridpath Hotel was Father Mar\-in 
Lavoy, director of the Morning Star Bo>V Ranch. 
Father Lavoy told of the work being done by the 
Ranch for wa\-\%ard ba>*s and received from the 
Club a donation for the institution. Acting Presi­
dent Dr. CURRAN HIGGINS '49, presided, and 
announced the election of the following oflicers: 
President Dr. CURR.\N HIGGINS '49; Vice-
President Dr. DEE J. McGONIGLE '52; and 
Secretary-Treasurer JOE WALSH *14. The follow­
ing members and their wix-cs attended, in addition 
to the officers: ED BETHKE '28, FR^\NK HA­
GENB.-\RTH '27, LAWRENCE MONTAG *53, 
Dr. BOB M.\HER '35, JOHN P. O'NEILL '29, 
VINCE SLATT '43, and BILL SPIELER '53. 
Plans arc being made for the annual Holiday Party and for a Pot-Luck Supper in February at which the 1965 Football Highlights will be shown. 
—JOE \VALSH '14, Secretary-Treasurer 
= TOLEDO = 
Otir annual football rafHc u'as successful once 

again due to the chairmanship of JOE KALBAS 
'57. This vear's winner of the all-expense trip to 
the Miami game «-as JOHN STOEPLER '53. 
JIM -MALO.NE '44 and .MARSHALL DES­

MOXD '54 were coHrliainnen of the Communion 
Breakfast. Fonner Toledoan Prof. DON' SXIE­
GOWSKI of the KD Engl'ish department was 
guest speaker and the XD "Man of the Year" 
Award was presented to Dr. JOHN C. KELLE­
HER '40. 
Tile Christinas Dance was again held at the In­verness Club. Co-chairmen were JOHN STOEPLER '53, BILL THEES '57 and DICK TORDA '57. 
—BLAIXE WILEY '57, Secretary­

^^ ^ TRI-STATE ^^ ^ EVANSVIUE, IND. 
Three activities have been held since the present oflicers Iiave taken over. An organizational and stag meeting u ^ held at the Holiday Inn in May when the Club's name uas changed again. At the slag meeting a film, '*Rocknc of Notre Dame," %\as shown. 
Our next activity was held on Oct. 23, consist­

ing of a T\'' party for the ND vs So. Cal. game, 
followed by a charcoal fillet dinner prepared by 
BOB LAMEY '25, and assisted by PETE THOLE 
'25. This function was well attended and enjo>-ed 
by everyone. In attendance from out of town were the JOHN HENNEBERGERs '44 of Mt. Carmel, 
III. Newest Club mcnibcr in attendance was DON CURLOVIC '60. 
The annual Communion Sunday was Iicid Dec. 12 at St. Anthony's Parish. Breakfast was ser\'cd at the Fireside Restaurant with fine attendance. Guest speaker was Fr. James Deneen, director of diocesan schools. His topic was parochial schools in the 70'5. A most interesting talk with, as re­quested, considerable audience participation. From Vincenncs wc had Marie and JIM McQUAID '31, and JOH-\ WATHE-\ '53 of Madisonvillc, Ky. 
—DON HALLER '43, Secretary 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

The ND Club of Washington, D.C, sponsored a 
closed-circuit telecast of the MSU-ND football 
game Nov. 20 in the Sheraton Park Hotel. 
On Oct. 12 a football smoker was held in the 
caucus room of the Cannon House Office Building 
with free Irish beer, compliments of the Harp Beer 
Distributors. The 1964 highlights were sliown. 
The Club's observance of Communion Sunday 
was held Dec 5 at Holy Cross College for members 
and their sons. Rc\'. Juan Cortes SJ, professor of 
ps\*clioIog>* at Georgetown U.. spoke on '*Modcm 
Psycholog\- and Religion." 
^ = W. CENTRAL CALIFORNIA ^ ^ 
Tlie initial year of the Club's existence concluded 
with two major events. The annual Communion 
Sunday was celebrated Dec. 12 at the beautiful and 
religiously-austere Carmelite Monaster>- in Santa 
Clara. .After the celebration of Mass, the Club 
membrrs repaired to the Fair International Res­
taurant for breakfast and conversation. 
A second event, the Holiday Dinner, was held 
on Dec. 29 at Andre's "L'OmcIettc" in Palo .\Ito. 
A cabaret setting was the desired informal atmo­
sphere for this festive occasion. The affair was 
highlighted by the appearance of ND stars PHIL 
SHERID.AN, BILL WOLSKI and KEN IVAN, all 
of whom played in the East-West Shrine Game. 
There was a large turnout for this, the final event 
of 1965. 
—.MICHAEL R, BURKE '63, Secretary­

^ ^ WESTERN WASHINGTON ^= 
The Women's Auxiliary* of the ND Club of Western Washington held a TV party for the ND-Southcm California game. Mrs. Mar>' Ann Mc-Garvcy was chairman for the event wiiilc Betty and JACK HUFF braved the mob that poured into their home. 
The annual Communion Breakfast was held Sun­
day, Dec. 12, in Our Lady Chapel at St. James 
Cathedral with breakfast following at the Sorrento 
Hotel. TIM McGARVEY was chairman for the 
breakfast. 
A winter smoker i-; scheduled for sometime in January with the filmed highlights of the 1965 sea­son to be shown. CARL SKIFF is chairman. 
And sometime before Lent a Mardi Gras party a dinner-dance affair, is being scheduled. This will be sponsored by the Women's .Auxiliary". 
OFF TO THE RACES went more than 65 members of the Boston Club, Nov. 3, for the ND Club's Annual Night at Suffolk Downs. Featured races  at the local pony pork included The Four Horse­men, Knute Rockne and other familiar titles which literally rang bells.  
28  ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY  

ENGAGEMENTS 

Miss Susan Sykcs and JOHN P. McMEEL '37. Mis< Carol Ann Miller and THOMAS J. NOWAK '57. Miss Kathleen Marie Podesta and STEPHEN LUKE ENRIGHT '62. Miss Elaine Rincliart and DA.N'IEL J. KOEXIG '62. Miss Claudia DiBenedctta and JERO.ME O. NEALON '62. Miss Patricia Ann Dunn and JOHN P.VTRICK SAM.MON '63. .Miss Sheila Ann Brennan and DAVID EDWARD SEAMAN '63. Miss Linda Rae Tilghinan and Ens. DONALD 
A. FOSCATO JR. '64. Miss Kathleen Lee O'Brien and Ens. MICHAEL W. MULLANE '64. Miss Maisaret Mars- Leach and ANDREW JOSEPH O'DW^'ER '64. Miss Marj- Julia P.lr^•i^ and JOHN E. SCULLY IR. '64. Miss Judith Anne Lcmkc and JAMES S. a\R ­ilOLL '65. 
Miss Mars- \nisinia Reese and JOSEPH ANTHO.VY FR,\XCO '65. 
Classes 
MARRIAGES 

.Miss Kathleen .Nolan and RICHARD L.\UBER '61, Ridgcwood, N.J., Nov. 27. 
Miss .Marian Elizabeth Mcnges and TI.MOTIIY MOORE TAYLOR '62, Wcstwood, Cilif.. Nov. 6. Miss .\Iarj- Ellen -McCalTrey and MICHAEL R. 
DILLON '« , Wilmetle, 111., Nov. 26. Miss Karen Anne Wroble\vski and JACK L. ERNSBERGER '65, South Bend, Nov. 27. Miss Carolyn Smith and DONALD JOHN HOGAN '65, Oak Park, III., June 12. Jfiss Ada .Marie -Mudd and RICHARD W. -MURRAY '65, New Rochellc, N.Y., Oct. 23. Miss Patricia Lena Masilotti and JAMES KEVIN TINNY '65, Vineland, N.J., Nov. 27. 
BIRTHS 

Mr. and Mrs. AN-THON-Y J. TRIGIANI '54, a daughter, Francesca Joanna, Oct. II. .Mr. and Mrs. JAMES P. JOCK '59, a daugh­ter, Theresa Marie, Dec 10. -Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. MALONE 'Sg, a son, Timothy John, Nov. 6. -Mr. and Mrs. F. JAMES SELLERS '39, a daughter, Jean Marie, Nov. 13. -Mr. and -Mrs. -MICHAEL A. FELDMEIER '60, a son, Robert Christopher, Oct. 8. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD J. McKEOWN '60, a son. Tcrrcncc Patrick, March 30, 1965. Mr. and Mre. MICHAEL J. GI.VCI.VTO '62, a son, Joseph Thomas, Oct. 30. .Mr. and .Mrs. MICHAEL G. QUINN '64, a daughter, Patricia Anne, Oct. 13. 
The Air Force ROTC .. . 
unit at the University has organ­ized an alumni club with 166 members already enrolled. Po­tential membership, according to Major Francis A. Veandel, faculty moderator, is 634- Those who are interested in joining are urged to contact Major Veandel at Det. 225, AFROTC, University of Notre Dame. 
SYMPATHY 

JOHN R. JOYCE '33, on the death of his \vire, 
Dec. 17. 
RENE J. JR. '48 and FR.\NCOIS DOGNAUX 
'61, on the death of their father, Oct. 31. 
EDWARD D. FURLOW JR. '56, on the death 
of his father, Nov. 9. 
EDWARD T. KENNEDY III '60, on the death 
of his mother, Dec. 1. 
PATRICK .MOR,\.\ '62, on the deaths of his 
father and brother. May 31. 
SR. .MARY KYR.\N RSM '63 and BROTHER 
DeSALES CFX '63, on the death of their mother, 
Nov. 26. 
DOUGLAS .\. HIGGI.VS '63, on the death of 
his father in November. 
DEATHS 

WILLIAM A. DAUNT '08, of Rockville Centre, N.Y., died Oct. 25 according to utird received in the Alumni OlHce. 
LEO L. COOK LLB '18, Soutli Bend attorney and former chief deputy prosecuturT died Nov. 10 of a chronic illness. He is sur\'ivcd by his wife, two sons and two daughters. 
JOHN J. HAHLER '21, of North Platte. Neb., died Nov. II after a long illness. He is iur\ivcd by his wife, a son John Jr. '49 and a dai ghter. 
WILLIAM WADE SULLIVAN '26, after an­nouncing his resignation after 31 years as post­master of .Mgona, Iowa, in October, died Dec. 4, of a heart attack. He is sur\'ived by his widow and two daugbtcrs. 
EARL J. DARDES '28, of Titusville, Pa., died of an apparent heart attack on Dec. 7 at State College, where he was stafT photographer for Penn State U. He ts sur\*ived by his wife and a son. 
WILLIAM W. "TURK" KELLY '28, New York City Board of Ed cation director of health and resident of Rye. N.Y., died Dec. 1. He had b?en ill since Tbankrgiving when he entered the hosiiital. Sur\-ivors include liis wife and two sons. 
SYLVESTER J. DOUGHERTY' '29, of Steubcn­ville, Ohio, died Oct. 20 in a hospital near Black-water Falk, W. Va. Chief metallurgist at Wcirton Steel Co., he was on \-acatton hiking at the time he was stricken. Sur\'ivor3 include two daughters. 
OSKAR D. RUST '29, owner and manager of Rust and Sons Wholesale Supply Co., Greensburg, Ind., died Dec. 19. Siir\'ivors include his widow, four sons and two darghters. 
WILLIAM S. HALLISEY '30, of Ber\%yn, III., died Oct. 12. He is survived by his widow. 
HENRY D. HINTO.N, PhD '30, retired prof, of chemistry at ND and resident of South Bend, died Nov. 30 after a four-month illness. Sur^'ivors inchide his wife and two sons. 
MARSHALL S. WALLNER '31, of Bedford, Ind., died March 20, 1965, according to word recently received In the Alumni Office. 
EDWARD F. CUNNINGHAM '31, of Indi­anapolis, Ind., died Dec. 14. He is survived by his widow, a son and a daughter. 
LOUIS E. JACKSON '34, South Bend attorney, died November 30 following surgery- after several montlis' illness. From 1946 to 1952 he was a part-time instructor in the ND Law School. He is survived bv a brother and a sister. 
JOHN P. "KELLY" BRiXDDOCK '38. of Bethesda, ^[d., died at his home of a heart attack in December. Sur\ivors include his wife and four children. 
The Navy ROTC . . . 
All members of the original 
Notre Dame Naval ROTC unit 
who signed up in 1941 interested 
in holding a 25th anniversary 
reunion next fall at one of the 
ND football weekends are asked 
to contact Jack Houghteling, c/o 
Sports Department, The Miami 
News, Miami, Fla., or Jack Cole­
man, 1314 Hamilton Ave., Cleve­
land 14, Ohio. All of the original 
group, whether they completed 
the NROTC course or not, are 
invited. 
JOHN C. "JACK" COLE '40, manager of the Indiana Bell Telephone Co. in Kokomo, died imexpectcdiy Nov. 23 after he became ill while driving his car near home. He is survived by his widow and three daughters. 
SR. AURY AGNES CUDDIHY CHM MS Ed '46, of Davenport, Iowa, died Oct. 25. 
EDWARD D. BLAKE '48, formerly of New-burgh, X.Y., died Nov. 9 in West Acton, Mass. He was a buyer for Sylvania Electric Co, He is sur\'ived by his widow, a son, and a daughter. 
JOSEPH W. KUHARIC '51, South Bend, died in 1955 according to wiord recently received in the Alumni OfHce. 
RICHARD J. CALL;\H.AN '52, Chadds Ford, Pa., died Nov. 5 from injuries received X'ov. 1 when he was struck by an automobile in Philadel­phia. Burial was in Youngstown, Ohio. He is sur­vived by his wife and three children. 
FACULTY AND STAFF DEATHS 
DR. HENRY DAVID HIN­TON, retired professor of chem­istrj', died Nov. 30 after an illness of four months. Many alumni will remember the 33­year veteran of the College of Science for the close pcnonat interest he showed in his stu­dents while attending his ele­

mentary cliemistr>- courses. After his retirement from the staff at Notre Dame in 1961, Dr. Hinton taught at St. Mary's for three years. He is survived by his widow. Ella, and two sons. 
REV. EDWARD J. FINNE­GAN, CSC '06, a former member of the ND faculty and long-time pastor of Sacred Heart Church, died Dec. 28 in Holy Cross House at ND. Fr. Finnegan taught at Holy Cross College in New Orleans, St. Edward's U., 

U. of Portland and Holy Cross College's Washington Tlieological Semi­nary. During WWI he served as an Army chap­lain in France. From 1929 to 1952 he was pastor at Sacred Heart. From 1952 until he retired in 1961 he worked in the University's archives. He is sur\'ivcd by a sister. 
JOSEPH MOLNAR, a bar­ber at Notre Dame since the middle 1920's, died Jan. 13 in St. Joseph's Hospital after a one-day illness. He left ND twice, once to become a jour­neyman barber and again dur­ing WWII to do defense %%iork at Bendix Corp. He started work at !^D in the basement barber shop of Washington Hall. In 1933 he moved to Badin Hall and in Jan. 1958 he became shop manager. He is sur\'!ved by his widow and two daughters. 
The Holy Cross 
Fathers . . . 
announce two new regional pre­novitiate programs for college and post-college candidates for the priesthood and brother­hood. One is in New Orleans where students will attend Loyola University; the other is at the University of Portland in Oregon. Inquiries are invited about these as well as about the programs at Notre Dame, St. Joseph Hall for college and post-college can­didates, and Holy Cross Seminary for high school candidates. In­quiries may be addressed to: Father William P. Melody CSC, Box 126, St. Joseph Hall. Notre Dame, Ind. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
ONE OF THE RRST to greet Rev. John 
E. Walsh CSC, the University's vice-president for academic affairs, v/hen he arrived in Wilkes-Barre last No­vember, was Charles Baab '00, a se­nior member of the Alumni Associa­tion. The 89-year-old Baab together writh King's College president. Rev. Lane D. Kilburn CSC, center, met Fr. Walsh prior to the jotter's address before the sixth annual King's Col­lege Century Club membership dinner. 
50-YEAR CLUB 
WALTER L, CLEMENTS Tower BIdg., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
From the Alumni OfHcc: 
Retired Supreme Court Justice ERNEST E. L. 
HAMMER '04 recently received the Golden Cross 
of Jerusalem, an honor bestowed by tlie Cardinal 
Patriarch of Antioch of the Bv-zantine Mclkite Rile 
of the Catholic Church. The honor was presented 
by Francis Cardinal Spellman in New York, and 
was conferred because of Judge Hammers *'high 
qualities and eminent services/* 
This is the first time an American has received 
the award. 
Since his retirement from the Supreme Co^rt 
in 1955, Judge Hammer has been president of 
Lavelle School for the BHnd in the Bronx. He 
also holds the Papal honor of Pro Ecdesia et Pon­
tificc and is a Knight of Malta and a Knight of 
the Holy Sepulchre. 
1915 
ALBERT A. KUHLE 117 Sunset Ave., LcGronge, I. 60525 
Although RALPH "ZH»PER" LATHROP graduated in law' with the Class of 1916, ] am sure many readere of the ALUMNUS will be in­tercitcd in thb news item about him. 
Zipper played both football and baseball on the \-ardty teams of 1913. M4. '15 and also played *'pro" baseball in Topeki (Western League). He enlisted in the Army in April, 1917, and went to Fort Sheridan Officers Training Camp and came out a 1st Lieutenant. NcM. he went to Camp Grant (Rockford, III.) and was promoted to Cai>­tain, 86th Division early in 1918. In September of tliat year he went overseas and was stationed in Germany, returning home in the spring of 1919. 
Zipper spent his working years in the insarance bminess. From I9I9 i:nt:l 1931 he was associated with the Travelers Insurance Co, in \'ario*Js mana­gerial capacities. He was stationed in Milwaukee, Peoria, BrookljTi, and the home office in Hartford, Conn., where he ser\cd a; assistant superintendent of agents. In 1931 he tran::fcrrcd from Travelers to Manh, McLennan Inc. as \-icc-prcsident of the life group and pension departments. He continued in that capacity until he retired in 1957 and moved "lip in the country" to Canncl. X.Y., where he resides with his wife. Zipper says he is in good health and for exercise walks three miles each day. 
Zipper likes to reminisce. He mentioned some of his old teammates — ERNIE KEEFE. guard on the I9I3 learn; FRED GUSHURST (RE); "DEAC" JONES (LG) and SAM FINNEGAN (RH). I liave no doubt that he would be more than pleased to hear from his classmates and friends at ND. His address is: c/o Gvpsy Trail Club, Cannel, N.Y. 

— ALBERT A. KUHLE, Secretary­

1916 
GROVER F. MILLER 
220 9th St., Racine, Wis. 53403 
REUNION 
JUNE 10-11 '12 

1917 
EDWARD J. McOSKER 525 N. Melrose Ave., Elgin, III. 60121 
1918 
GEORGE WAAGE 3305 Wrightwood Ave., Chicago, III. 60647 
Sincerely trust that you and yo-i^rs had a most 

cnjoN-ablc holiday season. .-Xnd may the nc«" year 
Iiave nothing but hcahh and contentedness in store 
Tor one and all. 
Let's start this report and let you know how we 

irame out with our returns on the birthday card 
mailer. Started with 100. Our roster lists 71. 
Relums received 36. One returned for incorrect 
address. To use the remaining cards. I sent some 
to the Classes of '15, *17 and *I9. Do not have 
"16 rttster. Returns received, 15. Grand total of 52 
cards returned. Your Alumni Exec. Sec JIM 
.ARMSTRONG '23 hoped we'd get 100% return. 
Trust Jim agrees we "done pretty good." 
CLERGY: Rev. GEORGE L. HOLDERITH CSC (^fay 24) Xotre Dame. Indiana 46556; Rt. Rev. Sisgr. FRANCIS -MOXIGHAX (.Mar. 13) 414 Church St.. Gregory, S.D. 57533; Rev. C. J. WILLI.AMS (July 12) 311 E. Grove .Ave., St. -Malacliy Rectory, Ranloul, III. 61866; 
1918'ers 

WILLLAM J. ANDRES (Nov. 23) 410 Dor­chester Road, Rochester, X.Y. 14610; EDWIN T. BREEN (Dec. 21) 1542 Shemin Ave., Chicago, 
III. 60626; CLARENCE H. BROWN (Nov. 12) 2137 N.E. 58tli St., Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 33308: CHARLES W. CALL (Apr. 21) I(M7 Bilt­more Dr., Winter Haven, Fla. 33880; HUGH S. CARROLL (.Mar. 31) 338 Mountain View Ave., San Rafael, Calif.; PAUL E. EDGREN (Dec. 28) 701 Cjlbertson Dr., Oklahoma City. Okla. 73105; LOUIS H. FOLLET (Sept. 3) 1303 W. Oak St., Xorristown Pa. 19401; ALLA.V W. FRITZSCHE (.Apr. 28) 373 Washington Ave., Elyria. Ohio; JAMES F. HANLON (Arg. 15) 1652 Glencoe St., Denver Colo.: GEORGE E. HARBERT (.Apr. 6) 1623 23rd Ave., Rock Island, III.; M. G. KAZUS (Oct. 13) 101 Knox Ave., Bi-ffalo. N.Y. 14216; WILLIAM H. KEL­LEY (Apr. 28) 1950 Reeve:ton Rd., Richmond, Ind.; THOM.AS H. KING (Oct. 7) 446 Kedzie Dr., East Lansing, Mich.; JOHX A. LEM.MER (Jan. 23) 901 Lake Shore Dr.. Escanaba, -Mich. 49829; JAMES P. LOGA.N (.Nov. 4) 2951 So. Fillmore Way, Denver, Colo. 80210; EDWARD R. .McDOXXELL (Jan. 1) 316 Woodland Dr., Council Bluffs, Iowa; LEONARD F. M.AYER (Jan. 22) 721 So. Beach St.. Daytona Beach, Fla. 32014: NORBERT G. MONXING (June 
12) Star Rojtc. Carrabelle, Fla. 32322; THO.MAS 
L. -MOORE (July 14) Box 2417, Tulsa. Okla.; THOMAS D. MOTT (Aug. 22) 511 W. Summer Ave., Spokane, Wash. 99204; ALBERT S. O'SUL­LIV.AN (June 29) 513 Warren Ave., Belvidere, III., 61008; JOHX L. REUSS (Avg. 27) 909 Orlando Dr., Ft. Wayne, Ind.; EDWARD J. REYNOLDS (June 13) 497 Highbnd Ave., .Maiden, .Mass. 02148; JOSEPH T. RILEY (Oct. 
14) 715 Hackley. Union Nat'l Bk. Bldg., Muske­gon. Mich.; RENE A. RODIGUEZ .MD. (Dec. 
31) 2266 Broadway, Denver, Colo. 80203; PETER 
J. RONCHETTI (Oct. 5) 1242 Cambridge Dr., Corpus Christi. Tex. 78404; FRANK X. RYDZEW­SKI (Nov. 16) 8355 Burley Ave., Chicago, III. 60617; EDWIN .MORRIE STARRETT (Mar. 
27) 419 Quincey St., Port Townsend, Wash.: JOHN J. VOELKERS (Apr. 9) 1006 S. Weslev Ave.. Oak Park, III. 603(M; JAMES G. WAL­LACE (Jidy 29) II32 Bellc\-ue Ave., Svracuse, 
N.Y. 13204; LOUIS E. WAGNER (Oct. 18) 17 Wood St., Danbury, Conn. 06812; NEIL J. WH.ALEX, M.D. (Apr. 26) 1023 Cadieux Rd., Grossc Poinic Park, Mich.; It,\Y C. WHIPPLE (Xov. 14) 373 Western Ave., Jolict, 111.; 
1913'ers 
ALVI.V H. BERGER (Aug. 8) Rural Route No. 2, Sturgis, Mich. 49091: .MARCH F. WELLS (Mar. 4) 1901 E. Tavlor St., Bloomington, III. 61701; 
1917'crs 
CHARLES W. BACHMAX (Dec. 1) 11 Sunset Lane, Pompano Beach. Fla.; ARTHUR J. BERG­.MAN (Feb. 23) 3910 Roseinar%- St., Cliev-%­Chase. .Md.; HARRY C. BAUJAX (.M.av 24) 2069 Rustic Rd.; Dajlon. Ohio; PAUL FOGART\' (Nov. 8) 5535 Sheridan Rd., Chicago, III. 60640; DANIEL E. HILGART.VER (Mav 28) P.O. Box 75, Harbert, Mich. 49115; FR.A.\K .M. KIRK­LAND (Dec. 15) 950 S.W. .21st St., Portland, Ore.; EDWARD J. -McOSKER (Apr. 25) 525 N. Melrose .Ave, Elgin, III. 60121; DOMI.NIC M. .XIGRO, M.D. (Apr. 2) 1222 .McGee St., Kansas City, Mo.; 
19l9'el3 
GEORGE L. a\VA.NESS (Julv 28) 428 E. 14tli St.. Tulsa, Okla. 74120; CHARLES C. CONNOLLY (July 9) 2347 Applegate .Ave., Klamath Falls, Ore. 97601. 
That's all the "guys" we heard from! 
Why not send a birthday card to an ND campus buddy of 50 years ago who shared "BUNS" with you in Brownson Hall? You know he'd be pleased to hear from you a great deal more than sending him flowers when he can't smell 'em. Remember, do it today, tomorrow you may wish you sent a "Hello and Best Wishes." 
Heard from RAY C. "BUTCH" WHIPPLE who still makes all the football games. Stales he saw WALTER MILLER who looks fine. "Butch" is still full of that ND spirit as wiicn he played guard on the football team. 
E. M. ".MORRIE" STARRETT, ND's All­.Amcrican water boy, now retired and moved to Port Townsend. Wash. Claims he is imw near FRANK KIRKLAND '17 living in Portland. \V.ash. Phone call from Buffalo—"MAX" M. G. KAZUS was on the other end. Enjoyed his call and Max sounded great. States he called Rt. Rev. Msgr. 
F. MO.MGHAN in Gregory-, S.D. who, accord­ing to K.AZUS, is enjoying good health. 
Wc miss fonncr Mgr. Ed. JOHX L. L.\UGH­LIN '48. Sure hope that Our Sunday Visitor ap­preciates tvliat a real nice capable '*guy" they have at Xoll Plaza, Huntington, Ind. Our sin­cere best wishes go to John. Our new mgr. ed. is JOHX THURIX. We now wish him success. 
Add FRANCIS A. "BODIE" AXDREWS to the birthday roster (Nov. 22), 221 San Carlos Ave., Piedmont, Calif. Appreciate card and letter, "BODIE." Will quote from it in my next report. Thanks. 
Had the privilege and pleasure of calling on "HENIE" ALVIN H. BERGER '15. The old halfback football player and baseball pitcher looks great. And Mrs. B. is most charming and if they had a Miss America in our time, she would have been chosen queen. Please to state that both are enjoying good health and effervescent contentment. Looking forw-arxl to seeing "Henie" again and getting a story from him about M.ARCH F. "PREP" WELLS '15, "DOLLY" GREY and the Corby Hall Subwayites. 
Wondering if "MIKE" now addressed as DOCTOR XIGRO '17 remembers the time he was caught ducking Mass .. . and "KI.NG" F.ARLEY finding him under the bed and letting him have the pail full of \rater? This was "&\P'S" way of giving his blessings to those he cat:slit ducking church. Heard that "Doc" had to go into his own hospital for a rest and complete check-up. Tnist it was not for anything serious. The next one reads about "DOC" is in the Clilrago Tribune's "In The Wake Of The News" by D.AVID CO.NDOX (one of ND's younger grads). It's all about "Doc"' Xigro being cuslodbn of the Italian .AII-.American Football Team. Under-
ALUMNUS JANUARY \966 FEBRUARY 
CLASSES 

Stand '*Doc" had RED SITKO in his lineup, 
remarking that, "Well SITKO*S good enough 
to be." 
Fr. WILLIAMS had to forego seeing the ND-

Mich. St. game. Instead, with 33 K. of C. mem­
bers and wives and his assistant. Father saw the 
ND-So. Cal. game. They left Rantoul, III. by 
bus at 6:00 A.M. from church parking lot. 
Took lunches-beverages of sorts and arranged for 
a supper on the way back at Goodland, Ind. 
FRANK KIRKLAXD '17 dropped "BIG 

FR.-\NK" RYDZEWSKI a card. Mrs. K. and 
he have been in Portland, Wash., for 16 years. 
Retired in February and spends most of his time 
Hshing. Caught a 20 lb. salmon. I bet that Illinois 
Ex. Lt. Gov. SHERWOOD DIXO.N' would sure 
like to get up there with Ktrkland and "land" 
a salmon. I repeat a P.S. of DIXON'S: "I hope 
the Lord allows me to live long enough to go 
salmon fishing with Frank Ktrkland again." 
Believe you me, I sure would like to be in on that 
"bull session.'* You can have the fishing! Got 
to follow this up with Sher^vood DLxon's letter 
copied in last issue of ALUM.NUS, 1920 Class 
report, and express my thanks for the giving ol 
flowers—when one can smell 'em. 
JAMES P. LOGAN, another trackman-mi ler, 

writes that he Is enjoying good health, appreci­
ates his wife and admits she is a fine person. 
IIzis four children, 16 grandchildren and admits 
what more could anyone ask. With health and 
contentedncss—really doesn't that make a full cup 
of happiness? 
JAMES L. "JI.M" SWEENEY xvrites that he 

attended the Northwestern game. Sorry his slay 
was so short that we could not have met one 
another. Thanks for the note, Jim. 
If yo'j have some news about JAMES F. HAX­

LON. I sure would appreciate hearing from vou. 
Phoned JOILN J. VOELKERS, 'ole quarter 

m:ler, to get £onie news. John came up with a 
great thought. States that the first game with Aniiy 
was in 1913. With Army at ND next year the 
I9I3 Class should be invited and introduced be­
tween halves. 
Called LAMBERT Q. SENG for news items and 

all I got out of "BERT" M-as that Shenvood 
Dixon should have been elected Governor of 
Illinois and the stunts "BUTCH" WHIPPLE 
pulled on the campus. And, as usual, he had just 
arrived in the city and was taking off for Na-li­
ville, Tcnn. to visit daughter who is married to 
CULH.-\NE LLB '45. 
Talked with FRED L. STEERS 'II, another 

trackman-mi ler, who looks and feels great. Don't 
think FRED has put on 10 lbs. since he left ND. 
Miss hearing from W.M. A. "TEXAS BILL" GR/\DY '17. Don't forget to send birthday greetings to the campus *'pals." Repeating, sincerely trust that one and all had a most enjo>-:ibIe holiday season. "Salute Cento Ans"—Good Health for 100 Years. —GEORGE W.VAGE, Secretary­
1919 THEODORE C. RADEMAKER Peru Foundry Co., Peru, Ind. 46900 
1920 
JAMES H. RYAN 
170 Maybrook Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14618 
1921 
DAN W. DUFFY 
1030 Natl. City E. 6th BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n • 12 

Dear Dan: 
Thanks for the 2 A.M. phone call. Sorr>- it 
happens to be my bedtime. 
Got D.WIS on the phone the other night, said 
he got beat by 1285 votes in tr>-ing to unseat the 
incumbent Democrat who had been in ofiicc sonic 
time. I told him he was better off. Why in hell 
rhould a guy his age want to get tied down on a 
job? Says he plans to go to ND in June and then 
lake his wife to California for an extended \"aca­
lion—couldn't do that if mayor. ABRrVMS sent 
him $25.00. Some ver\* close friend of .Al's is a 
doctor practicing in Oswego. Haven't heard from 
Brandy since before the Michigan Slate game. 
Enjoyed two wonderful weekends at ND this 
fall. So. Cal and Mich. Stale games. Met a lot of 
old friends — "RED" SHEA, KILEY. H.\NK, 
CASTNER. several Millers — missed Waller — 
FR. DOREMUS, HAROLD WEBER, PAUL 
FENLO.V, CHET GR.-\.\T and olheis. 
Will have HUXFORD write you. .Aside from 
that don't know what else to do about the reunion. 
Why don't you send out letters with return post 
cards to get an indication of whom to expect? 
No travel plans for the winter yet, but I'm 
a\-ailable if I gel to Florida. Will look you up. 
Best regards. 
LEO D. KELLEY 

Dear Dan: 
I appreciated your letter enclosing the present 
stains of Class of 1921. I was saddened in going 
over the list of the deceased. It seems lint those I 
remember as exceptionally well-behaved die young. 
It must be that the Lord is giving the rest of us 
more lime to straighten out our accounts with Him. 
Margaret and I spent five da>'s at ND during 
the No. Carolina weekend. We drove down one 
afternoon and had a ver>* enjovable overnight visit 
with MARK ZI.\LMERER and his family in their 
new home in Kokomo. Mark is retired from King­
sKm Products Corporation but seems to be the 
ino^t active man in Kokomo. 
I see BAR.\EY a\RNE Y frequently. Ife retired 
lait year here in Tulsa as director of research of 
the Warren Petroleum Corp., the wholly owned 
subsidiary of Gulf Oil Corp. 
I will be looking for^x-ard to seeing you in June 
at our 45th Reunion. 
With best wishes, I am 
Siiicerclv vo'irs. 
WILLIAM j . SHERRY 

1922 
G. A. "KID" ASHE 175 Landing Rd. N., Rochester, N.Y. 14625 
\Vc fire a silule in Imnor of JOIl.V PAUL CULLEX a native nf Janesville, Wis., tvho closed OMl 42 years of meritorious federal ser\-ice on Dec. 
30. For the past 25 years. John Pa'-I h.ns been 
FRANCIS CARDINAL SPELLMAN, arch­
bishop of New York, in November 
presented the Golden Cross of Jeru­
salem to retired Supreme Court Jus­
tice Ernest E. L. Hammer '04 on behalf 
of Mcximos IV Saigh, patriarch of An­
tioch. It was the first such honor given to on American by the Eastern Rite Church, and was bestowed be­cause of the recipient's "high quali­ties and eminent services." Judge Hammer, since his retirement from the Supreme Court in 1955, has been president of Lavelle School for the Blind in Bronx, New York. 
manager of the Milu-aukce regional office of the 
Veterans Administration. I^or to his Milwaukee 
assignment, John Paul was affiliated with the 
claims division of two of the largest Veterans 
Adminbtration offices in the country, Los Angeles, 
and Chicago. For a time, John Paul was associ­
ated with the Board of Veterans Appeals in Wash­
ington, D.C., also, in World War II, was manager 
of V.A.'s Midwest area with headquarters in Chi­
cago. He and his wife, Mary, live at 9033 Jackson 
Blvd., Milwaukee. They have three children, Mary 
Alice, now on the arts staff of the College of Agri­
culture, U. of Wisconsin; Mark recently discharged 
from nax-al ser\'ice, is employed in St. Piiul, Minn.; 
and Peter, a graduate student at Marquette U. 
John Paul, who holds AB and AI.-\ degrees from 
George Washington U. in addition to his laur de­
gree at ND, docs not intend to be idle. Following 
federal retirement, he plans to continue working in 
the xvriting and historv research fields. 
The FRANK BLOEMERs of Aripeka, Fla., mo­
tored to ND to see the Michigan State game, and 
to Miami for the game there. They were in Louis­
ville for Christmas. 
Early In '66 the DAN YOUNGs of Drcxel Hill, 
Pa., arc taking a sea voyage to Australia and New 
Zealand and other countries thereabouts. 
It Is about time that we are giving a report 
in detail of the eleven offspring of EDWARD 
BRx\DLEY BAILEY and wife Joan of Philadel­
phia. Here is the complete roster: Ed — Lt. Col. 
In Marines, Camp Lcjeune; Jim — attorney in 
Houston; John — legal department Gulf Oil, Hous­
ton: Bill — Interstate Host, Seattle .Airport; Boh 
— lawyer, Lancaster, Pa.; Father Flavian, 
M.S.S.T. —- doing vocation work; Mrs. Joan Mc­Cormick, Falls Church, Va.; Tom — insur­ance, Br\-an, Texas; Mrs. Irene Ambrogi, wife of Lt. John xXmbrogi of Navy; Sister Stephen Marie 
— Dallas, Pa.; and Barney — student in Kilgore, Tex., and in the Marine Reserves. Ed and Joan have 28 grandchildren. Papa Bailey Is manager of advertbing production services of the Phiico Cor­poration. 
— G. "Kid" ASHE, Secretary 

1923 
LOUIS V. BRUGGNER 1667 Riverside Dr., Apt. A, South Bend, Ind. 46616 
. During the fall inontlis, following this secretary's 
issuance of a periodic newsletter direct to class­
mates, an unaccustomed volume of mall has been 
received, stirred up In pan by the secretary's ap­
peal fur funds for the Class kitty. Classmates' 
responses for funds have been gratifying. The 
response with letters and quickie notes lias been 
more than gratifying. 
As usual in our age group, news is always sad­
dened by reports of deatlis of o'Jr members. We 
report the demise of: 
JOHN A. BRILEY, Lilt.B. on Oct. 7, in Pitts­burgh. His widow reported that John had been in; bad health with emph>-5eina for three and a halC years, but his death was caused by hemorrhaging of a duodenal ulcer. He was past president of the XD Club of Pittsburgh and was chosen I^fan of the Year in 1954. ND alumni who preserve their file of past issues will find John pictured on page 54 of the .August-September, 1957, ALUMNUS. 
JOSEPH CARLYLE MURPHY, Hcmet, CallL, died prior to Oct 26, the date on which the .Mumni Office notiBed me. Details and date of his death are not known to me, although our cus­tomary Mass card was mailed to his widow, and no response has yet been received. 
On the brighter side of the news, we note the achievements of such classmates as J. STANLEY BR.ADBURY who was elected president of the Big Brothers and Sisters of Illinois last summer and who, judging from clippings from the Robinson, 111.. Daily AVa'j, was awarded a citation by the Illinois Youth Commission for his work in preven­tion of youth delinquency. 
PAUL aASTNER. Newport, Minn., was elected president of the Minnesota Fraternal Conference according to a clipping sent us by TOM LEE, alert *'neu3hawk" from the Twin Cities. Kiul is general agent for the Knights of Columbus. Tom remains somewhere in the upper executive echelons of the Northern States Power Company. 
The Chicago Tribune on Oct. 26 featured "In the Wake of the News" a scintilbting bit of a re­union of sorts of ND men to honor Lawrence "Buck" Sliaw of wide fame at ND, Santa Clara, and pro football. Among men mentioned, mem­orable to the '23 era, were JERRY DIXON, PAUL 
CLASSES 
PFOHL, HECTOR GARVEY, DICK NASH, BILL ALLEX, and RED SHEA. 
— LOUIS V. BRUGGNER, Secretary 
1924 

JAMES R. MEEHAN 301 S. Lafayette Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46601 
From tlic Alumni Office: 
REV. PHILIP S. MOORE was one of eight XD 
faculty members acting as resource persons for 

discussions of major world peace problems at the 
World Order Conference marking United Nations 
Week in October in South Bend. Sponsored by 

community leaders and civic organizations, the dis­
cussions fTonccmed such topics as nuclear warfare, 
human rights, nationalism and conflicting ideol­

ogies. 
A press release from the National Coal Associa­
tion informs us that G. DOX SULLIVAN* has 
been named the NCVs director of land and water 
conservation. Formerly associate director of gov­
ernment relations with the NCA, Don now will 

devote full time to land reclamation and prevent­
ing water pollution by the coal industr>'. Don's 
home is at Indian Springs Farm, Lorton, Va. 
1925 

JOHN P. HURLEY 2085 Brookdale Rd., Toledo, Ohio 43606 
The new format is briefness! 

JOHN HARTLEY sent a clipping front Tbt AV.-c York Times sometime ago concerning .AL SOM­^lER. The Marsclialk Co., Inc., announced the 
•election
 of .AI who has been with the company 

•since
 1958 as management scnicc director in "KYj to a new senior \-ice-president. Prior to that J\l liad spent 32 years in Interpublic Group of *Companics, Inc. At one time Al was president and 

•director
 of McCann-Erickson-Venc2oIana, S.A. Continued success, Al, and thanks to \-ou, JOHN BARTLEY, for this "info." 


JOHN F. KILKENNT, the US District Judge 

in Portland, Ore., has been elected to the direc­
torate of the ND Law Association. Our congnitu­
lattons, John. 
We were sincerely grieved to learn of the death 

of the wife of LLOYD B. SHROFF. Accept the 
deepest s>inpathy of the class in the loss of your 
wife, Hilda. 
DON C. MILLER has been s%vom in as federal bankruptcy referee in Cleveland. Don, a former US attorney, has been in private law practice. Congratulations to the president of the Class of '25. 
— JOHN P. HURLEY, Secretary 
1926 

FRANK A. DEITLE 
1763 Kessler Blvd., South Bend, Ind. 46616 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n '12 

Few class presidents will have made as many contacts as our RUDY GEOPFRICH has made in la>ing the ground work for our -lOth reunion ne.\t June. The follouing are notes from letters received from him on his travels: 
"September — from tlic tri-cities of Moline, Davenport and Rock Island. I called on ROGER NOLAN. He lives in Davenport and is with the Benefit Trust Life Insurance Co. Roger has five children, four sons and a daughter, all but one son are married. There arc eleven grandchildren. Went with Roger to Rock Island to attend the wake of GEORGE UHLMEYER '23. Tliere met the fol!o\ring ND men: JIM SKELLY '22, RALPH CORYN '22, DAN KEELER and CH.\RLIE RING '21, JERRY CULLIG.AN '31, PETE LONSBERG '56, BOB CORYN '52 (Ralph's son) and JOHN NOLAN '54 (Roger's son). 
"October — while in Oklahoma City got to­gether with LESTER CLARK. Lcs is in the Engineering Division of the Okbboma State Dcpt. of Health and has charge of the water resources of the State of Oklahoma. 
32 
"In Cleveland called PAUL ABEL. He is with the Yoder Machine Co. Aho Iiad an enjo>*able evening in tlic home of DENNIS O'NEILL. Den­nis lias 13 grandchildren and, though retired from tlic advertising game, he keeps bus>* writing. While Dennis graduated in 1926, he lias two sons, DEN­NIS JR. who graduated in 1951 and MICHAEL in 1961; also a son-in-law, BOB WALL^XCE, '56. Tliat means four will be returning for the reunion next June­
"In Toledo, called .VRT SUDER. He is oper­ating the florist business started by his father almost 100 years ago. Art's health is good and his business is good. He sax's he can't adord to get out of the flower business. 
"November — from Detroit. XHsitcd SEWARD "SYD" BOWER at his office in tlie Editorial Dept. of the Detroit Xews. Syd lias been there 36 years following a short stint witli tlic South Bend Tribune, Tentative plans for foreign travel may interfere with his attendance at our reunion next June. 
"Visited HOWARD WEIMERSKIRK in his office in the GM BIdg. He has been witli General Motors in the .Audit Section for 38 years. He expects to attend our next reunion, made the 30th but missed the 35th. Talked on the phone with FR.\NCIS X. BOLGER, brother of Father Bolger. Francis is retired and taking life easy. He plans to be on hand in June. Visited MALCOLM KN.AUS at his place of business. Mai has an elec­trical business on McNichols Road. He has five children,'- two of his sons are now at ND. Mai recently .\Tsited with JOE SHE.\ at his hotel in Buflfalo. 
"November —• from Miami and Nassau. Had lunch and a visit with IRWIN PROBST and his lovely wife, Mar>', before the Miami game. Irwin has been in Miami since 1945 and is in the in­surance adjustment business." 
That concludes my notes from Rudy to date. 
Received a letter from JOHN J. RYAN with a clipping from the Chicago Tribune about the death of JOHN .McMULLEN. 
Also heard from MARK MOON'EY. Mark in­fonncd us of the death of Janet Jolianncs, widow of AL JOHANNES. Mark is president of the St. Petersburg-Tampa ND Club. They had a group of 100 going over to the Miami-ND game. 
— FRANK A. DEITLE, Secretary­

1927 
CLARENCE J. RUDDY 32 S. River St., Aurora, III. 60504 
1928 LOUIS F. BUCKLEY 68-10 108th St., Forest Hills, N.Y. 11375 
Notre Dame and the Class of 1928 lost two dedicated friends in the dcallis of BILL CROXIX on Oct. 30 in New Rochelle, NY, and JOHN SEITER in Lexington, Mo., on Sept. 22. Wc uill alwa>-s be grateful to Bill for the record-breaking gift to the University he raised from our class­mates at our 25th Reunion. JOHN SEITER es­tablished a schoIar>hip at ND for bo>-s graduating from their local high school. We will miss these dc\'otcd classmates at our reunions. 
GEORGE SCHEUER advised me of the death of EARL J. DARDES on Dec. 7 at State College, Pa., where he was stafi" photographer for Penn Slate U. He apparently s'jfTered a heart attack. He is sur\-ived by his wife and son. Earl spent a great deal of time in research on the history of the petroleum industry and took many pictures of its vTirious pharcs. He once scrv'ed as part of the crew for a small boat which crossed the Atlantic from Florida to Spsin. A photo trip also look him to Tahiti. Our treasurer, JOE LAXGTON, arranged for a Mass for Earl. 
FOOTBALL CLASS GET-TOGETHERS 

Tlianks to BERNIE GARBER who got out the *'SpeciaI Announcement" with pictures, and BOB HAMILTON who handled the local arrangements, the Class of '28 had a great get-together dinner before the Army game in New York. The following attended: JIM ALLAN, NEAt AMIOT, JOHN ANTUS, PAT a\NNY, VIC FISCHER, BER­NARD GARBER, BOB HAMILTON, LEO Mc-INTYRE, GEORGE KELLEY, ADRIAN LOPEZ, RAY MULLIGA-N, DR. C.\RL PETTERSCH, RUS SMITH, DR. PATRICK SULLIVAN, JOE HILGER, TOM BOV, DAN VERRILLI, BILL HURLEY, JOHN SULLIVAN, '29, and your class secretary. 
ED QUINX did his usual good job in arranging for ojr ninth annual Class of '28 party following llic Southern California game at ND with the fol­lowing in attendance: JOHN FREDERICK, WILLIAM H. MURPHY, ED RAFTER, LEO McIN'TYRE, JOE HILGER, JIM ALLAN, TO.M HART, VINCE WALSH, JOHN R. MURPHY, JOHN RICKORD, JOE GRIFFIN, ED Mc-GAULEY, BILL DWYER. JOHN E. BRANNON, PAUL BRANNON, JOE DORAN, BOB VOGEL­WEDE, FRANK CREADOX, .VRTHUR P. HOLTOX, ED QUIXX, GLEXX DxWIS, LARRY ST.\UDER '28, JOHN LEXIH.-\N '29 and JOHN COLANGELO, '29. 
Congratuhtions to GEORGE COURY on his receipt of the Man of the Year .Award from the Miami ND Club. 
You probably read in the press about Judge WILLIAM B. JONES of the U.S. District Court conducting the famous trial involving the failure of the Communist Party of the United States to register as a Communist Action Oi^anization. Judge Jones gave the party the maximum penalty. BUI was assigned this major case upon his return from a trip uith his wife and daughter through Ireland, London, Paris, Yugoslavia and Rome. 
Your Cbss secretary- has accepted an inWtation from Dr. CARL A. PETFERSCH, director of Graduate Studies at Danbur>' State College, to give a series of lectures during the second semester. 
LAST YEAR'S MONOGRAM DINNER which brought together many of the old-timers from classes around 1920 prompted George Waage '18 to man his camera and record the reunion that took place at the Holy Cross House. Pictured from left to right: John J. Voelkers '18, Jim Ryan '20, Rev. John P. Lynch CSC, Rev. C. Miltner CSC, Rev. M. Schumacher CSC, John Balfe '20, Frank X. Rydzev/ski '18, Al Sommer '25 and Rev. Cornelius Hagerty CSC. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 19«< FEBRUARY 
CLASSES 
Our treasurer, JOE LANGTON, lias been kept 
busy arranging wth FATHER AIULREANY, 
CSC to ofFer Masses at .tlic request of the Class 
for the 17 classmates who have died since our 3oth­
year reunion. Joe*5 oldest daughter is now* Sr. 
Michael Maureen, a St. Joseph of Carondelet nun. 
His other daughter, Susan, is now home and work­
ing for Joe in his auto supply company, 406 West 
Madison, Oltau-a, 111. Wc arc fortunate in having 
Joe as Class treasurer and BERXIE GARBER, as 
Class president. 

AL TAYLOR, JOHN ANTUS, BERNIE GARBER, and your Class secretary had lunch uith Dr. PATRICK J. SULLIVAN »29, when he left New York where he has been medical oHiccr in charge of the Out-Patient CHnic of the Public Health Service. Joe prevailed on me to lose 30 pounds before he left Nc%v York. He b now med­ical ofEccr in charge at the U.S. Public Health Service Out-Patient Clinic of the Communicable Diseases Center, 1600 Clifton Road, Atbnta, Ga. Dr. Pat and TOM BOV \-isitcd us prior to the Army game party. Tom is on the Esso Houston, the largest automated tanker in the world. Wc will miss Dr. Pat as wc had some good sessions with him and his w*ifc here. It was good to see AL TAYLOR. I had not seen him since graduation. AI has one daughter who teaches here. He is an attorney with the Department of Justice, Civil Division, Customs Section in New York. JOHN ANTUS has returned to the U.S. Customs Court here in New York. John has a son in medical school at George Washington U. 
BERNIE GARBER, JIM FOLEY and I had lunch with GEORGE KELLEY, who was in New York reporting the Pope*s visit for the Youngs­town Vindicator. George advised us that he ex­pected to be married soon. 
The '23 Class gct-togethcr before the Army game gave me the opportunity to talk to many class­mates whom I had not seen in years including VIC FISCHER, who was there with his young son. Vic has another son at ND. Vic is a civil engineer for the NY State Department of Public Works in Babylon, NY. Wc ate with RAY MULLI­GAN, assistant vice-president, Chicago Title In­surance Co. Ray lias one daughter at St. Louis U., and another at Drake. RUS SMITH from San­dusky, Ohio, told me he would send me JOHN GAUGHAX's Dallas address. It was great to sec PAT CANNY looking well after a long illness. He is retired now. 
A visit to Minneapolis gave me the opportunity to spend some time with my Corby Hall room­mate, DENNY DALY, who is still practicing law there. Denny has two sons at ND. I saw JACK DOYLE at the Juster Brothers store in Minneap­olis. Jack's daughter is a Maryknoll nun who is teaching in Harlem. Jack's wUc died some time ago after a long illness. I talked to BOB FOGER­TY who is head of the Social Science Division at St. Thomas College. 
BERNIE GARBER met JOE KISSLING, re­cently. Joe had just had his Hrst grandchild. Two of his daughters are married and the third at­tends Marquette U. Joe is with Grumann Aircraft. 
I saw DICK DONAHUE '30, from California at BILL CRONIN's u-ake. I talked to JOHN FORGE in Omaha this summer. I also saw RAY HILLIARD '29, who is doing an outstanding job as head of the Cook County Department of Public Aid in Chicago. Ray was president this year of the National Catholic Conference for Interradal Justice. • 
ED RAFTER wrote about how much he enjoyed a visit \rith BILL CRONIN in Chicago this year. They accidentally met CHARLES SCHUESSLER. Ed mentioned that he had talked to Dr. JOHN FRANKLIN, a pediatrician in New York and head of the department at Cornell U. Dr. John has a son who is a recent graduate of Cornell Afedical School, another in his last year of law at Har\'ard and the third is in pre-mcd at Trinity College. Ed praised ED QUINN' for the well-organized and enjoyable '28 Class party he arranged after the Southern California gatne. ED RAFTER reports that BILL GOELITZ is one of the reasons for Montgomery Ward's great expansion program. Ed sees BERT KORZEN, count)- treasurer, BILL KEARNEY and DICK PHELAN. One of Dick's sons is an assistant district attorney. 
JACK EGAN of Boston is back on the job after surgery. I was also pleased to hear from BERNIE GARBER that LARRY CULLINEY is back to work after some months of illness. Larr>- attended the wake of BILL CRONIN as did BERN GARBER, BOB HAMILTON. GEORGE CRON­GEYER. Dr. JOHN FRANKLIN and your Class secretary. 
It was a pleasure to hear from ray old room­

mate and best man at my wedding in 1930, JOE 
BRANNON, who wrote from Phoenix, Ariz, in 
his usual brilliant style. After spending nine months 
in retirement from Sears, Joe is back at work as 
district manager for Montgomery Ward and Co. 
in Arizona. 
I returned from a business trip to the Virgin 

Islands and Puerto Rico to find that BILL 
(TURK) KELLY had died on Dec. 1. He under­
went serious surgery a week prior to his death. 
He liad been a health counselor with the N.Y. 
City Board of Education for a number of years. 
Turk is another added to our list of deceased 
classmates who will be missed by his many friends 
in the class. We have armnged for a Mass for 
Turk at the request of the class. BERNHE 
GARBER, BOB HAMILTON, GEORGE CRON­
GEYER, TIM TOOMEY '29, JOHN BURNS 
'31, and ED CUNNINGHAM '31 attended die 
w*ake in Rye, N.Y. Turk is survived by his wife, a 
ten-year-old son and a son who is a senior In 
high school. 
May I thank the many classmates who responded 

to my newsletter of Nov. 15 with kind words for 
our efforts to keep the class together and the 
numerous offers of help. 
FATHER JIM McSHANE, SJ will not return to 

his mission in the tropics in Central America. He 
is now chaplain at St. Louis U. Hospitals, 1325 
So. Grand BouIc\-ard. St. Louis, Mo. 63104. 
Your Class 5ccrelar>' was vcr>* pleased to be 
present at the annual dinner of the ND Club of 
New York on Dec. 8 when our Class president, 
BERNARD GARBER, received a certificate in 
gralcful recognition for dedicated and unselfish 
dc\'otion to the Club and to ND. This was cer­
tainly a wcll-dcservcd acknowledgment to which 
I would like to add that we in the Class of '28 
extend to Bcmie thanks for his outstanding con­
tribution to Class activities. 
LOUIS F. BUCKLEY, Secretary 

1929 
LARRY STAUDER Engineering BIdg., Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
In early 1964 wc reported the death of Airs. Sylvester J. (Florence) Dougherty. On Oct. 20, 1965 "DOC" DOUGHERTY died after suffering an apparent heart attack while on \-acation in West Virginia. "Doc" was the embodiment of the ND man. To quote from a letter of WALT MULFUR: 
"Last Friday, Oct. 22, I wus in StcubemTlle, Ohio on business. I called Doc Dougherty at Weirton Steel and was shocked to Icam that he had died the day before. 
"At the funeral home I talked to Doc's daughters and expressed the sympathy of the '29crs. 
"Doc OS chief metallurgist of Weirton Steel Co. was most highly regarded both as a man and as a leader in his profession. He was always my favorite candidate for Spotlight Alumnus. Notre Dame has had no finer and we have lost an outstanding classmate." 
The lead editorial of the Steubenville paper of Oct. 21 follows: 
"Sylvester J. Dougherty's unexpected death this ^vcek at Blackwatcr Falls, W. Va. was a shock to this community where he had spent most of his life and to Weirton where he had worked since he was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1929. 
*'^fr. Dougherty had three major interests in life, his church, his home and his profession. He was a devout and active member of St. Peter's Ro­man Catholic Church serving as a member of the church council for a number of years until it w*as disbanded. He w-as a past chairman of the Holy Name Society of Annunciation Deanery. 
"Mr. Dougherty's ability as an engineer made him chief metallurgist of the quality control de­partment, Weirton Steel Company, where he was employed for more than 35 years. He vfas sent by his firm to Germany and other European countries to study foreign ad\'ances in stcelmaking processes. 
"Mr. Dougherty was not a ciWc leader in the sense the term usually is employed but rather was a wiling worker in all worthy causes. For a time he participated in Boy Scouting as chair­man and member of a troop committee. He ^vas past president of the Notre Dame Club of the Ohio Valley.' 
**Mr. Dougherty was distinguished by a gracious and sincere nature that imparted warmth to his re­lations with friends, acquaintances and co-workers. 
His enthusiasm in all his endeavors was tempered by an absence of pretension although his talents were readily recognized. 
"Death came to Mr. Dougherty while he was on vacation, indulging in hiking, a favorite pas­time. His last day was a reflection of his steady, calm approach to life and its problems. 
"Through his death the Weirton Steel Company has lost a competent executive. It has left a pain­ful void in the associations of many who re^KCtcd his ability and apprcdated his friendship." 
KARL JLVRTERSTECK wrote: " I don't know how well you knew' Dougherty but he was one of the greatest. I was his best man years ago in Steubenville. I saw CLETE SCHNEIDER at the Cleveland closed-circuit TV Nov. 20. Too bad the game didn't end at the first half. 
"JOHN MEAGHER and his wife (PETE BRYSSELBOUT'S sister) were in Cleveland several weeks ago. John looked fine and retired (sort of). His son. Jack Jr., runs the business under parental supcn*Lsion." 
Your secretary had the privilege of knowing "DOC" DOUGHERTY well as a student and aftcn%-ards. He and Florence were at home on this campus. They are survived by two daughters, Louise Dougherty and Ann Jane Dougherty, both of Cincinnati. We add our tribute and that of his Class to what has been said by WALT MULFUR and KARL MARTERSTECK. 
We were informed belatedly of the Sept. 22, 1965 death of ALLAN J. MOORE Ph BC ;29. Allan is survived by his sister. Miss Virginia Moore, 6900 South Shore Drive. Chicago. We have no further details to report. We, in behalf of the Class, express our s>Tnpathy and a- promise of remembrance of Albn In our prayers. 
By coincidence the LARRY STAUDERs sat two TOWS behind the RAY BREENs in Shea Stadium, Oct. 9. JIM FRIEL and party were nearby. After the game LARRY STAUDER II who is a senior at ND and a tympani player in the marching band was surprised to see his parents in NY. He had left earlier by bus and had not been told his parents planned to see the game. Among others seen In NY were Class President JOE LENIHAN and his wife, Dolores; also. Dr. JIM TOBIN and his wife, Margaret. 
Our Class Chapbln Father OTIS WINCHEST­ER, assistant at St. Joseph, Cuyahoga Falls since 1960, is now p.i5tor at St. Thomas Aquinas, Cleveland. Congratulations to Father Olcy who was on the campus for the Southern California game but less successful in his efforts to return for Michigan State. 
Congratulations arc in order for SISTER M. FRANCIS BORGIA STAUDER PhD '47, sister of your Class secretary. She was recently elected Mother Provincial of the St. Louis Province. 
CLETE SCHNEIDER and son TOM, a recent graduate, attended the Army game and report seeing CHARLIE COLTON, REGIS TWOOMEY, JOE LENIHAN, BILL WALSH '30, PAT CANNTT and his wife, HARLEY McDEVITT, and Dr. JIM TOBIN and his wife. 
PAUL C. BARTHOLOMEW '29, and his wife toured Europe this past summer. They visited the ND center in Rome where they were welcomed by VINCENT McALOON and where Professor Bartholomew met several of his former students. In Switzerland they were shown the sights of Zurich by DON LUECK '50 who is with the European oRice of Booz, Allen, Hamilton, Inter­national, fn Dublin they visited U. College where TOM WOODS '64 is a visiting lecturer in political science this year. Both Lueck and Woods arc former students of Professor Bartholomew. 
—LARRY STAUDER, Secretary 

1930 DEVERE PLUNKETT O'Shaughnessy Hall, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
From the Alumni Office: JAMES L. WALSH JR. has been named wee-president and general counsel at Southwestern Life Insurance Co. of Dallas. Formerly associate general counsel. Jim has been affiliated with Southwestern Life since 1945. 
The Long Isbnd Lighting Co. has announced the election of EDWARD C. DUFFY to the new post of executive vice-president. Ed joined the company in 1942 as a design engineer, and has been senior vice-president since 1957. 
AlUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
CLASSES 
1931 
JAMES T. DOYLE 
805 W. Arcadia Ave., 
Arcadia, Cal. 91007 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 * 12 
1932 
JAMES K. COLLINS 
2982 Torrington Rd., 
Shaker Heights, Ohio 44122 
REMI RENIER, now a full colonel in the 
Army Corps of Engineers, %vas in Cleveland 
recently \Tsitins wtli JERRY LIXN. Remi is 
slated to take over the position of post engineer 
at Cape Kennedy shortly after Jan. I. He has 
been in the Corps since World War II and has 
held many top engineering jobs with tliem. Jerry 
is witli Dallon & Dalton Associates, in Cleveland 
in the architectural rnginecnng field. 
A visit with JOHN KR.\MER in Kansas City 
recently revealed that he has expanded his busi­
ness until he had to build a new warehouse. His 
two sons arc with him in the business. 
TEX SIMMONS told mc in Dallas tliat he 
planned to load up his plane and fly to the 
Miami game. We hope the trip was more satisfy­
ing than the score of that game. 
TONY CONTI, still awaiting ^vord from 
|OH-\N"Y PERONE, writes that he is already 
planning on the next reunion. 
FRANK O'NLALLEY has been chosen as the 
Class contact man with the University Foundation 
and you will probably be hearing directly from 
him in the promotion of this endeavor. 
Among recent changes of address arc: REV. 
MERLE B.ALDWIN, SJ, to St. Ignatius Churcli, 
720 N. Calvert St., Baltimore; .-XRT HOCTEL lo 
720 Sancome Ave., South Bend, LEO McL.\UGH­
LIN to 444 Madison Ave., New York City, ED 
O'MALLEY to 1707 Noble Ave., Bridgeport, Conn. 
—JLM COLLINS, Secrctar>­
1933 

JOHN A. HOYT, JR. 
Gillespie & O'Connor, 
342 Madison Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10017 
\Vc learned with deep regret of the recent death of JOSEPH W. FULLEM of B>-\vood, Upper Darby, Pa. 
**In Paradisum Deducant Te Angeli" 

At the September Sports' Smoker sponsored by the ND Club of Neu- York we saw ANDY BOTTI who drove down from MiddIe(o%\-n, N.Y. for the meeting. Andy spent the night looking for both BILL LYNCH and ^L^RSHAL McWENEY. We also saw JOHN ABB.ATE\L-\RCO \vho is now with Pepsi Cola here in New York. 
ANTHONY PUGLIESE told us that his son, Tony, is now manager of ne%« services for Inter­national Telephone & Telegraph at New York headquarters, and that he traveled widely through Europe and South America on business. His son, JOHN, graduated from ND in 1962 and then sen-cd two years in Germany as a first lieutenant, US Army Infantry. His other son, RICHARD, graduated from ND in 1965 and is now a second lieutenant in the Army Transportation Corps. Tony and his wife, Blanche (St. Mary*s '34), are grandparents of Brian John Pugliese. 
CHARLIE CONLEY of Havcrtown. Pa. had a nice \'isit from Father JIM DONNELLY early in July. Charlie attended the 1935 Law Class Reunion at ND and while on the campus saw cbssmates ^L\URIE LEE, TONY CROWLEY, BILL DONOHUE, FRANK MATAVOSKY and ED VYZRAL, and on a subsequent visit to the campus he saw Father CH.-\RLES E. SHEEDY CSC, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, and Dr. JAMES P. DANEHY. 
llAURIE LEE. now Hon. Maurice W. Lee, was recently appointed a judge in the Circuit Court of Cook County, HI. At a cocktail party honor­ing his appointment to tho court which was held in Chicago in June, Maurie had among his guesb: DON WISE, JOE McCABE and BILL DONO­HUE. In addition to the appointment," the Lees 
recently became grandparents for the first time. 
From TIGHE WOODS, the Dbtrict of Columbia 

and Virginia realtor, we had a recent note adxiang 
us that Tighc has an office both in Washington, 
D.C. and in Harpers Fcrr^*, W. Va. He makes his home about 55 miles from Washington on a farm near Harpers Fcrr>-. Tighe has five grand­cliildren, all girls. His oldest son, BRYAN, who graduated from ND some years back, is a second year medical student at the U. of Virginia. 
CH.\RLES HAFROX recently retired as a 

captain from the Na\-y and Is presently on the 
athletic staff and faculty- of the U. of San 
Francisco. Charlie spends a great deal of his 
time promoting the activities of the newly-
founded Northern California Club of ND. The 
Club liad a rally on the c\-e of the Notre Dame-
California game at the Pabce Hotel in San 
Francisco. ED MADIGAN, son of ND's immortal 
"SLIP" ^LADIGAX, was master of ceremonies at 
the rally. CHARLIE CALLAHAN and ED 
KRAUSE attended, and FRANK LEAHY came 
down from the Northwest to attend the rally and 
the game. 
LARRY SEXTON was in New York for the 

visit of His Holiness Pope Paul and stayed over 
for the Army game on Oct. 9(h. 
ERNIE GARG.\RO spent the weekend of Sept. 

18-19 on the campus enrolling his son, ERNIE 
JR., as a freshman. Ernie Jr. is the oldest of 
eight in a wcll-babnced family that also boasts 
of four daughters. Ernie is going lo spend the 
rest of his life pa>'ing tuition to ND and St. 
Mary's. 
St. Louis' new $29,000,000 gateway arch s>-mboI­

izing the *'Gateway to the West" frames the 
city's new sports stadium and in the background 
one can sec the arch of the oldest Roman 
Catholic Church west of the Mississippi and the 
courthouse where Dred Scott was tried more 
than a century* ago. All this is part of the great 
urban development of St. Louts, pioneered and 
engineered by our distinguished classmate, CHAR­
LIE FARRIS. The face of St. Louis has been so 
drastically clianged that Charlie finds it difficult 
finding his xray home at night. 
ED ECKERT and hb two youngest daughters 

^vere in New York for the Papal Mass at the 
Yankee Stadium. At this writing he is nov%' \"a­
cationing in Jamaica, Britbh West Indies. 
JACK BREEN and his wife, and JERRY 

ASHLEY and his wife were in New York for 
the XD-Anny game. Their visit was a total 
success: in addition to seeing a fine game at 
Shea Stadium, they were seated u-ith the Jacqueline 
Kennedy party in a box while the box next 
to them was occupied by the Ricliard Nixon party. 
ROGER BIERNE represented a chain of news­papers at the Mass for Pope Paul VI at the Yankee Stadium. Roger looked well and asked to be remembered to his old classmates. 
Judith Rohrs, daughter of GEORGE ROHRS, was married on Nov. 27, 1965 to William Don­nelly, son of WALTER DO.VNELLY '29. 
—JOHN A. HOYT JR., Secretary 

1934 
EDWARD F. MANSFIELD 
523 W. Hillsdale, San Mateo, Cal. 94403 
From the Alumni Office: 
WALTER KENNEDY, president of the National Basketball Association and former mayor of Stam­ford, Conn., w*as installed Jan. 16 as a Knight of St. Gregory, a papal Iionor awarded after nomina­tion by one's bishop, usually for outstanding civic and church support. Walt also qualifies for the honor as trustee of his parish, a director of St. Joseph's Hospital, a member of the National Cath­olic Education Association and director of an in­ternational good-will recreation program for President Johnson. 
1935 
FRANK T. McGUIRE 
V. P.—Special Projects, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
All of you are interested in the progress of the Scholarship Fund in memory of DAN YOUNGER­MAN and the other deceased members of our Class. As we go to press on December 15 it is about lialfway home against objective. However, participation is but 5% of the Class so there's little doubt of success if all respond. Rrmember 
THE US ARMrS Commendation Medal for distinguished service was awarded to Rev. Edmund J. Murray CSC *34 in Chicago last October. Presenting the award is Major General Charles E. Brown Jr. (right), chief of chaplains. Department of the Army. At left is Colonel Charles J. Murphy, former Rfth US Army chaplain. 
fellowis, wc liavc a reputation for being a get­it-done Class. Seastm's greetings to all from ND. —FRANCIS T. McGUIRE, Sccretar>­
From the Alumni Office: 
Judge E. SPENCER WALTON spoke at the 
trust institute of the Indiana State Bar Associa­
tion in October. Judge Walton, of the St. Joseph 
Superior Court in South Bend, was a panel 
member discussing docketing, undocketing, bond­
ing and judicial supcrv*ision of trusts at the 
meeting in French Lick, Ind. 
A recent article in The Nezo York Times lists 
CAMILLE GR.-\VEL JR., an attorney in Alex­
andria, La., as the prime opponent to Louisiana's 
senior Senator Allen J. Ellender in the 1966 
elections. Camille's hopes are heightened by the 
increasing Negro registration under the Voting 
Rights Act of 1963, his pro-labor policies and 
his Catholic religion. Negro registration may 
double by the Aug., 1966 primaries. Ellender is 
a professed segregationist. 
ARTHUR L. CONRAD, vice-president of FHck-
Reedy Corp., Bensenville, 111. has been accredited 
under the Public Relations Society of America. 
Art was one of 425 public rcbtions executives 
to receive accreditation at the Society's annual 
meeting in New York City Nov. 19. The candidate 
must pass written and oral examinations and meet 
standards of experience, character and reputation. 
1936 
lARRY PALKOVIC 301 Mechanic St., Orange, N.J. 07050 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 • 12 

CLIFFORD BROWN—352 E. Main St., Nor­
walk, Ohio, married, number of children un­
known—is Judge of the Ohio Court of Appeals, 
6lh Dist. He was elected Nov., 1964 for a six-year 
term. Cliff plans to be at the 1966 Reunion. Now 
that he knous where MILLER MALLET is 
located he said he might get around tliat way 
and look him up. 
Cliff ran into BILL DARCY who is a chem 
engineer and has two daughters at Mt. St. Joseph 
College. Cliff's oldest daughter also attends the 
school. While Cliff was in Cincy for Parents 
Weekend he looked up J. VIXCEXT "WHITEY" 
AUG who was with Cliff and the rest of the 
boys in Freshman Hall. CUn' thinks that "Whitey" 
was a roommate of MATT THERNES. Whitey 
transferred to Mich. U. in his second year, 
finished his law work at U. of Cincinnati College 
and is now highly successful and prosperous in 
his work with a big firm as a senior partner. Cliff 
has asked him to join our Reunion in June. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
OASSB 

Whitey's address is 4222 Drake, Indian Hills, Ohio. On his way back home from a vacation \'isittng 
N. J., N. Y. and other states, Cliff called ROMAN BELMONT and interested him in com­ing to our next reunion. Roman said he would make every effort to attend our Reunion in June, Roman lives at 20 ComM-all Rd., Genera, N.Y. 
Believe it or not, those of you who lived in Freshman Hall as I did, this bit of ne\v3 will floor you especially those of you who lived in the west part of the hall along with WALLENSACK and SAM ALLWORTH to mention a few. I lived, rather roommatcd, with JOE SULLIVAN wth McSHANE next to us. Those of you who knew what a guy McShane was will remember stones he related to us night after night about Chicago during the Al Capone era. Believe you me he was a whiz at these tales. Well, the other day I received a long letter from SfATT LEARY and it nearly floored me as I had not heard or seen him since Freshman Hall da>-s. His letter is quite long and lengthy. According to ^fatt, J. HOPKINS was his roommate in 203. Joe and I lived this side of Matt. Said he remembers uith nostalgia some of the fun we had while living in the old *'Cardboard Palace,*' as he refers to Freshman Hall. He recalls one night when Joe locked me out of the room with only my pajamas which I have since long forgotten. He also recalls how Joe one night threw the shotput thru our con­necting wall tr^-ing to get Matt to put an end to his bull session as Joe could not get to sleep. He thinks this was sometime after the lights went out. Matt says he still thinks of Joe and remembers him in his prayers. When Joe was quite ill at St. 
/ Joseph Hospital, Matt went down to see him just before he died. The only way he got to see him was that he posed as a near relative as vbitors were not allowed toward the end. When he visited Joe he laughed and was not surprised by his visit posing as a relative. Towards the last, Joe's O'esight was not too good and so Matt had to read a few lines of his letters which %%'cre written in small writing. Joe—altho very weak—told ^(att at that time he was going to see his mother at home as Joe's mother was very sick or an im-alid at the time and could not travel to sec him. Matt mentions the fact that Joe sure tvas a brave gentleman. Matt ex­presses the opinion here that Joe knew he wasn't going to last very long. I think Matt left after his freshman year but returned in '38 and finished with Class of '39. Vet, he says his tics arc probably stronger with the Class of *36 and is going to make the '66 Reunion. Says he sees RENO ZARANTANELLO who runs a large restaurant, bar and bowling alley in Oak Lawn on the South Side of Chicago. Also sees BILL HIGGINS quite regularly. Bill is working for ED MORAN from ND who runs a plumbing supply house which bears his name. Said he attended a ND banquet and met many '36 classmates along with HUGHIE DEVORE. On some of his recent trips back cost he has visited with LEE MOORMAN and ART CRONIN. 
Matt visited MARTY BAYER in Rochester and saw SONNY CHURCH in New Jersey and SEBASTIAN BONET. Bonct is with Johns Man­^•iilc. Sonny is running his father's business. He has visited JOHN HOPKINS, his old roommate, seTCral times but claims John is not in the best of health. Sa>-s John has had several heart attacks but ^vith the aid of his ^vifc, Loretta, and hb great faith he has weathered the storm. Matt has asked mc and any '36 classmates who live near John to look him up and cheer him along. Also visited BILL "BIFF" FLANNERY who b a successful lawyer. He calls Iiim "Legal Beagle." 
At the present Matt is in the Hquor business but has been looking for something else as it gets monotonous after 15 years or so. Kfatt sends his best regards to all of the boj-s \vho had known him from the '36 Class. Wants to hear from CURLY REAGAN and SAM ALL­WORTH. If anyone knows of the whereabouts of these twt>, Sfatt would like to hear from them. Also mentions the fact that this is the first time he has written to anyone concerning this '36 column. 
Will take this opportunity to say that it ivas really swell to hear from you, Mac. Keep those letters coming and keep us informed. McSHANE'S address is 1901 S. Pulaski Road, Chicago, 111. Hope all of you around Chicago will visit ^fac sometimes and forward more ne\\'5. 
My reporting of Class news Would be incomplete if I did not include the following article about CY CONNOR and NICK TANCREDI: 
My Bengal Followers, Friends and Enemies: 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
On the night of March 20, 1936, Nick Tan­

credi, who many claimed gained a moral 
victory over me in the Bengal Show of last 
year, will this year be carried from the ring 
in the arms of his many shyster friends and 
perhaps one or more of his few Greek friends. 
If his two followers get too loud, Nick the 
Greek will be carrying them out of the hall. 
I will use my strength and weight to tie up 

the Greek's bag of tricks and then I'll use a 
few dropkicks and airplane, (Army-bomber 
type) spins to pin him. 
I also dare this unknown, Hans Brinker, 

The Terrible Skate, to be among the audience 
the night of the show. I'll jumble his teeth 
down his throat. This is my lost performance 
' on a Bengal Boxing program and it means I 
will take all comers the night of March 20. 
The Barefoot Wonder — Cy Connor, 

IRWIN CROTTY — 11827 25th Ave. S., SeatUe. Wash. — is married and has seven children (four sons and three daughters). One daughter is a senior at Carroll College in Helena, Mont. An­other daughter is a junior in high school. The youngest boy is in his second year in high school. His oldest boy, Joe, works for Boeing Aircraft Co. in Seattle. One son, JIM, attended ND and played football. Pat works for a steel company in Seattle. Mike, the youngest, has his eye on attending ND, a good ball player. Irwin coached and taught in Iowa for five years then entered US Immigration Service in Detroit, Mich., for two years and then transferred to North Dakota. Invin plans to at­tend the 30th-ycar Reunion if he can possibly make it. 
—LARRY PALKOVIC, Secretary 

1937 
JOSEPH P. QUINN P.O. Box 275, lake Lenape, Andover, N.J. 07821 
From the Alumni Office: 
It was "time for someone else," said WILLIAM "BUTCH" BRU.VO recently as he retired after 20 years as head football coach as Asbury Park High School, N.J. Since 1946 Bruno has com­piled a record of 110-55 with his constant faith in the single wing and his motto, "the name of the game is blocking and tackling." His best contribu­tion, he feels, has been to the young men them­selves. He names bo)-s w*ho couldn't have made it to college without the scholarships athletics w*on for them: the potential dropouts who stayed in because they liked to play sports; and the "prob­lem boj-s" who have had the opportunity to learn teamwork and responsibility through football. All this and more the Asbury Park Press uTotc about Butch Bruno when he retired. 
1938 
BURNIE BAUER 
1139 Western Ave., South Bend, Ind. 46625 
For those who don't read the sports pages, CHARLIE CALL.\H.\N resigned from the sports publicity post he has had at ND since the days of Leahy to propagandize the Miami Marlins Pro Footballers, and to hold open house during the winter months for the Class of '38 whether he and Betty know it or not. Charley proved tliat climbing to the fourth floor under the dome for freshman speech was not futile by giving a tear-jerking swan song at the football banquet. It's a great oppor­tunity for Charley and the Marlins. Good luck to both. 
BOB CAHILL stuck me on the goal line this year so I didn't see as many "38'ers" at the games. But NICK LAMBERTO showed up at the Michigan State game to cover for his paper, the Dcs Moines, Iowa, Register. Dr. DAN MONA­GHAN, in from Washington, D.C., u-as there too as was JACK MAHONEY — still a bachelor like Dr. Dan — from Ashtabula, Ohio. Ran into LEN SKOGLUND and wife after the Northwestern game, also R.AY .MEYERS and CHARLEY BO­ROWSKI with wives. Ray is still coaching basket­ball at De Paul. Lcn Skoglund has been nom­inated to be Class Agent for '38, a ncw position created to aid the ND Foundation in seeking finan­cial aid from Alumni toward the development pro­gram which includes the ncw field house. So expect a note from Lcn who has been one of the top con­tributors in our Class in all ways! 
ED "TEX" HAGGAR's mother died in Novem­
ber in Dallas. Knowing Ed, I am sure she was a 
great woman. Our sympathy to Ed and bb family. 
The Hon. WILLIAM "T-BONE" MAHONEY 
was on campus. Bill b back home in Phoenix after 
hu tour OS Ambassador to Ghana. 
I spent two days in Willmar, Minn., last summer 
but missed JOHN FOLEY who mmed to 3627 
GUIham Rd., Kansas City, Mo. PAUL LEDVINA 
has moved to 404 Battcrsea Rd., Norfolk, Va., 
from ^faryland but hasn't written me any details. 
JOHN HURST mo\ed from Toledo to SkiU Cen­
ters Inc., 154 £. Erie St., Chicago, and LARRY 
EBY left Yinden, N.J., for 254490 E. RKcr Rd., 
Grosse He, Mich. If any of you write or see John 
and Larry, urge them to bring mc up to date. 
OK! Also, if any of you know where BILL SHER­
IDAN, who spent freshman and sophomore years 
with us, and first baseman PAUL VAN WAGNER 
are, let me know. BiU ^vas last known to be in 
Midland, Ontario, and Paul at Tucson, Ariz. 
Sad news! CHUCK SWEE.\EY just received a letter from BILL COUR from Washington, D.C, saying that JOHNNY BRADDOCK died in hb home in Bethesda, Aid., with a heart attack, Dec 
10. He said he saw Johnny twt> days before, ap­parently in good health, and that Johnny had bowled with GEORGE HOWARD the night be­fore. Johnny starred at second base—udng my glove, incidentally, for Jake Kline for two years and later played semi-pro ball and then umpired around Washington, D.C., hb home town, for many years where he was nicknamed **KeIIy" Braddock. He was a staff assistant mth the Gas and Light Co. in the personnel dept. 
Johnny was a lieutenant in the Na^-y during the war. Our deepest s>*mpathy to his wife, Rita, and their four children. AIu*a\-s enthusiastic and en­couraging, friendly to everyone, Johnny was a "great" guy in fullest sense of the word and a true Notre Dame man. 
I was happily surprised the other night when I met the Indiana State Highway Commissioner, ROBERT WHITEHEAD, to discover that he wns none other than our old Brownson Hall, desk 180, roommate, BOB WHITEHE-AD of Kokomo, Ind. He spent only his freshman year with us, before transferring to Indiana from which he emerged as a law)-er. Bob recalled se\-eral social touis he took to the KP dances with DUTCH ZELLERS, TOM HEALY and the GRE.\T McNAMARA. JIM LAIIEY, recently appointed to the Indiana State Con5cr\-ation Commission by Gov. Roger Branigin, was with me. 
—BUR.NIE BAUER, Secretary 

1939 
JOSEPH E. HANNAN 
1804 Greenwood Dr., 
South Bend, Ind. 46614 
From the Alumni Office: 
ARTHUR L. COSCARELLI has been pro­moted to assistant superintendent of strufitural finishing at the US Steel Corp.'s South Works near Chicago. Graduating from ND with an engi­neering degree in metallurgy and started with 
U.S. Steel the same year. Art was appointed fore­man in 1943 and named assistant superintendent of the wide flange structural milt in 1963. 
HARVEY FOSTER was honored by the ND Club of New York City at its annual Communion Dinner. Har\*ey was au*arded a certificate for his dedicated and unselfish devotion to the Club and to ND. A former president of the Alumni Association, Har\*ey has retired from the FBI and is now vice-president of American Airlines in charge of audits and security. 
1940 
ROBERT G. SANFORD 
117 S. Stewart Ave., Lombard, III. 60148 
1941 JAMES F. SPELLAAAN 7 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 10017 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 • 12 
CLASSES 
From the Alumni Office: 
An October sports column in tlic South Bend Tribune noted tliat "BOB SAGGAU, who used to punt, pass and run pretty well for Elmer Laydcn's teams at Notre Dame, stopped off for a visit at Cartier Field. . . ." Now a sales representative for water and snow ski firms in Milwaukee, Bob is still listed in the Irish record hooks %\-ith an average 23 j-ards per pass completion for 1938-40. 
1942 
WILLIAM M. HICKEY 3333 W. 45fh Place, Chicago, III. 60632 
We Iiave received an interesting letter from ^L\RTY McGOWAX whom we haven't heard from for a long while. Marty was publisher of the Applelon Press in Applelon, Minn, from 1947 until he sold it in July 1965. He, also. lias been a member of the Minnesota House of Representa­tives since Jan. I, 1959 and b now finishing out liis fourth two-vear tcnn which expires at the end of 1966. 
While negotiating tlic sale of the press this spring, he was offered the positiim as coordinator of new projects (legi^lativc consuhant) with KTCA­TV, the educational television station for Min­ncapoIis-St. Paul. He accepted the offer and DlTicially joined the station staff July 1st when the sale of the paper was announced. Marty married Elizabeth Nolan of Bniincrd, Minn, in July 1943. Thcj- have sc\en sons and two daughters. TIic oldest son is a senior at MIT and the second son is a junior at St. Thomas College in St. Paul. Tlie oldest daughter is a sophomore in journalism at Marquette. The others arc down through the grades. 
—WILLIAM M. HICKEV, Secretary 

From the .'\Iumni Office: Judge MICHAEL F. GODFREY recently was sworn in as judge of the St. Louis Circuit Court. At 44, Judge Godfre>' is the youngest man serving on the St. Louis bench. The judge and his ^vifc, Irma Catherine, reside at 6247 Westway PI. witli their two sons, Michael, Jr., and Paul Frauds. Dr. VAL R. PIERONEK PhD '42 has been named an assistant director of the phoUigraphic teclinolog)' division at the Kodak Park Works of Eastman Kodak 0>. Dr. Pieronck joined Kodak in 1946 as a chemist concerned with development Work on color photographic ptoducts. In 1963 he was named Kodak Park coordinator for the Kodak pavilion at the New York World's Fair. The Surgeon General of the US Public Healtli Service recentlv conferred the service's Commenda­tion Medal upon Dr. CLARENCE A. I.MBODEN, Jr., who is chief of the coronarv- section, Heart Disea-se Control Program of the Health Service. Tlic medal was awarded '"in recognition of his out­standing contribution to specialized coronarv* care and his leadership in the establishment of coronary care units and of training programs in cardiopul­monary* resuscitation. His work in these fields is of international recognition." These two areas of work have led major hospitals to establish special, in­tensive care nre.-is for heart patients and to initiate courses teaching so-called external heart mas.sage. 
1943 

JACK WIGGINS 5125 Briggs Ave., LaCrescenfa, Cal. 91014 
1944 
JOSEPH A. NEUFELD 
P.O. Box 853, Green Bay, Wis. 5430 
For almost a year, your secretary has been lamenting the fact that correspondence from fel­low classmates lias been deplorable. The previous column was a good example, bearing out this truth. However, there has been a cliange* thanks to the splendid efforts of area vcep FR/WK VIG­NOL.-\ who initialed, prepared, and mailed a questionnaire (under your sccretar>-'s name) to every listed *44cr. The response vras good: 50­somc replies as of this press deadline. Naturally, there is room for improvement, considering the total *44 contingent. With that in mind, all who have not returned them arc urged to do so promptly. Needless to say. your secrelarj* is most appreciative of Frank's terrific cooperation. 
Unfortunately, five were returned unsigned. For example, who is vice-president and treasurer of 
I. M. Coq>., Chicago, the father of five, a lecturer in finance at De Paul and on the P & F Com­mission of Ehnhurst, III.? Also, who is a real estate broker, the father of seven (the oldest a son, Jim, a junior pre-raed at ND), and whose hobbies are golf and fishing? Or, wlio is assistant secretary' of Travellers Insurance Co., whose hob­bies arc collecting rare coins and old iron toj'S and who is the father of seven (tlic oldest daugh­tcr, Elizabeth, being the first '44er baby 22 years ago) ? Still another mj-stcrj', who is Sears' Atlanta­^femphis zone manager, the father of six whose hobby is golf? Finally, who is assistant supt. of Western Electric in Omaha, the father of six who enjoj-s bowling, camping, carpentry, gardening, swimming and Little League? No prizes ^^ill be given for solving these riddles but if identified, the individuals will be given *'print" in future columns. The moral to this tale: sign your questionnaires. 
HEROLD JOHNSON. 1107 Rossmov-ne Ave, Glcndale, Calif., wrote that he had been hospi­talized the past eight years at Los .Angeles' V. A. Center and during that time saw ony two ND men, EJ\RL ENGLER T in 1957 and a fellow patient, HARRY ROLFS '05, uncle of our TOM ROLFS. Hcrold, the father of the two boys, now IS confined to a wheel chair at home. Prior to his illness he was a member of the L.A. city school 5)*stem. Surely a note or a \isit would be appre­ciated. Almost nine years is a long time to be incapacitated. 
"BLACK" JOHN MURPHY ran into a flock of '44ers during the big Anny-ND weekend in New York. To mention a few: JOHN ANHUT, ANTJY BARBIERE. JI.M CLARKE. CLEM CONSTAN­TINE, JOE DILLON. JACK DOYLE, EARL ENGLERT, JACK KELLY, JOE LANE, BOB Mc\ULIFFE, RED McCAFFERTY, ED MONA­HAN, BILL O'BRIEN, BILL O'CONNOR. TOM ROLFS, DAVE RONEY. AL SOILO, GEORGE SULLIVAN, BILL WALDRON, GEORGE WENDT, and JACK WHITELY. Earlier in the fall, John, DAN CASEY, JOHN DUFFY, and BILL O'CO.VNOR scheduled a "bon voy­age party" for JIM LLOYD, but the guest of honor didn't show, leaving the hosts only the alternative of drowning their frustrations. At an­other gathering. "Black" John saw ANGELO BERTELLI, ED DOWLING, ANDY MURPHY and BILL TALBOT. (Send vour new address. 
Bill.) 
MIKE FRAWLEY, director of customer relations for National Cash Rcgista's Electronic Div. claims he needs no hobbies because his six sons and two daughters give him plenty to do. DAN HECHT, president of Dan Ilecht CIicvToIet, Effingham, III., likewise is the father of eight, split evenly. How­ever, Dr. JOH.N CLYNE, an OB specialist of Lincoln, Neb., has 10 offspring, ranging from 19 down to two, to keep him occupied. HARRY KENNALEY, vcep of an insurance agency in Shawnee Mission, Kan., reported one grandson, a feat not many '44crs can duplicate at this stage. Harry's brother-in-law, ED O'CONNOR, keeps the prolific pace with six children. 
Tlie response from those in the medical profes­sion was very fine. In addition to JOHN CLYNE, questionnaires were returned from BILL GILLES­PIE, St. Louis, Mo., a thoracic surgeon and 1965 ND Man of the Year Awtird winner; from HAR­OLD H.\LEY, Oak Park, III., surgeon, associate professor of surger>% Striich School of Medicine, Loyola of Chicago; from TOM MANGAN, Forest City. Iowa, whose son is a ND freshman; from RAY MORGAN, Shreveport, La., prexT of tlic local ND Club in addition to his medical duties; from JOHN O'NEILL, New Haven. Conn., a spe­cialist in internal medicine; and, from JOE STR.ATIGOS. South Bend, director of phj'sical medicine and rehabilitation at St. Joseph's Hospital. 
The barristers were represented with replies from GEORGE BARISCILLO, our class president, who added his name to the Army game spectators; from DOM BOETTO, Joliet, III., who has been chairman for the Bishop's Drive on Obscene Lit­erature and has given over a hundred talks on that subject; from DAN DOWNEY, ^Vcst Palm Beach, Fla., attorney who presently heads the chamber of commerce; from NORBERT WLEKLINSKI, president of the East Chicago, Ind., bar associa­tion; and from JOE G.ALL. Nashua, N.H., whose activities include the Scrra Club, cltambcr of com­merce, American Legion, Cana Conference, and at least 15 other civic, educational, political and religions organizations. Wliat an obituary that will be! Joe, together with Farrell Quinlan and CLEM CONSTANTINE, lacecutive director of community services at Manchester, comprise the New Hamp­shire delegation. 
Coltfomta replies came from MIKE KIELY, 
supL of recreation at San Bnino and the father 
of eight; from FRANK SANFILIPPO, an in­
surance executive in the L.A. area v%ho, prior 
to moving west, founded the Mid-Hudson Valley 
ND Club; and from TOM SHELLWORTH, 
Chevy dealer in Morgan Hill. Tom corresponds 
with BOB PAYNE '44, a Benedictine monk at 
New Westminster Abbey, Mission City, B.C., Can­
ada. Tlie latter teaches but in his free time skis 
and hikes the mountains. 
From Omaha came a reply from Lt. Col. BILL 
KELLY assigned to Hdqtrs., Strategic Air Com­
mand. He has been out of touch with '44 grads 
for years. ANDY itcELROY, Norwalk, Conn., 
BUD KUKN, Winnctka, III., and FR^\NK ECK 
of Stamford, Conn., all try to keep in shape 
through frequent tennis games in their respective 
areas. Andy really hopes to make the big reunion 
in '69, having missed previous ones. 
JOE FIEWEGER, Dr. KEN FORBES and your 
secretarv- were the '44crs participating with the 
Green Bay ND Alumni in the universal Communion 
service on Dec 8. Joe recently returned from a 
North Dakota hunting trip with FR. BILL SPAL­
DING, local ND Club chaplain, and reported that 
the feathered friends were so thick that they knock 
themselves out attempting to escape the shots and 
fell reluctantly at their feet with nary a pellet in 
them. 
It has been a frustrating fall for your sccrctarv' 
in following the ups and downs of the mighty 
Packers and scarcely was healthful for an ulcer 
\ictim. Howc\*er, now the ski season is here with 
trips to Upper-Michigan ski slopes phnned for the 
near future and, in late Fcbniar)', a jaunt to Sun 
Valle>-. 
Your cooperation in providing material for the 
column lias been excellent in recent montlis and 
w*a5 appreciated greatly. May it continue. Even 
though the new year is well under way, it is only 
appropriate to pray and hope that it will be a 
great one for every *44cr with His rich heavenly 
blessings through the powerful intercession of His 
Motlicr showered abundantly upon every one. 
—JOSEPH A. NEUFELD, Secretary­

1945 
FRANK M. LINEMAN 
G.E. Co., 600 Main St., Johnson City, N.Y. 13790 
Wc were all saddened to hear of the deatli of 
LOU BARSOTTI on Sept. 27. Lou will al«-a>-s be 
remembered for his slow, easy way, alwa>*s ready 
with a quip but stage-struck in front of a group. 
To his family wc pass along our condolences and 
our prayers. Tlic family's address is 2566 Summer 
Ave,, Memphis, Tenn. 
Also to PAT FILLEY our condolences and 
prayers on the death of his father in October. 
JOHN POWER is practicing law in Chicago and is associated with the firm Gifford, Moore. Roddy & Power. He and his family live in Westchester, 111., where he is chairman of the zoning board. 
JIM BRAUN is treasurer of Bonn Bros. & Co., Athens, Wis. Jim is also sccretar>- of the Athens Development Corp. The Brauns have two girls. 
HANK FRAILEY Iws switched from Westing­house to Corning Glass where he is controller. 
VINCE LAURITA is teaching and coaching in the South Bend school sj-stem. Vincc and Mary Ellen liavc two bo>-s and two girls. 
Big AL WADE and Judith have a daughter at Michigan State with three other children still at home. Al is with Kirsch Co., in Detroit and is a past exalted ruler of B.P.O.E., in Rochester, Mich. 
DENNIS SCULLY is underv^Titing manager vritli Allstate. Tliree bo>'s and a girl comprise Barbara and Denny's family. 
Nav>- Cmdr. JOHN BROZO received his mas­ter's degree in International Relations from George Washington U. 
BOB SNEE is manager group sales and mer­chandise with J. C. Penney Co. in Silver Spring, Md. The Snecs have seven little Snccs. 
BOB RIORD.\N has returned to the States and is now with Cherr>- Biirrel Corp. in Chicago. "MAYOR JOE" BRADY is still single, and an accountant with H. Y. Ridings Co.. JoHet. 
BILL BRACKEN is a special agent with the FBI in New York. Bill and Jan have two bo>-s and three girls. 
JOHN ELLIOT is treasurer of Sel Rex Corp., Nutlcy, N.J. A CPA, John and Inez liavc a daugh­ter and two sons. 
"BOBO" SCHREIBER is a ph>-sicist with GM in Warren, Mich. Tom and Marge arc two and two. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
OASSES 

To JOE HAGGAR our sympathy and prayers on tlic death of his mother. —F. M. LINEHAN, Secretary 
1946 
PETER P. RICHISKI 60 Robin Place, Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n • 12 

1947 
JACK MILES 3218 Bentley Lane, South Bend, Ind. 466}5 
REMEMBER NEXT YE.\R 

If 1966 has sneaked up on you before you were ready for it, keep in mind that 1967 is already Iiighballing along the track and is also likely to make its bow several months before we're ready. 
Therefore, more than a year away from our 20-ycar Reunion, resolve youMI be on campus come June, 1967, to confer, imbibe, revel, and othcr­w*isc hobnob with your maturing classmates. 
It is not too early to begin planning; if you put it off, suddenly youVc going to find it's already too late! 
THE HOPSCOTCH GAME 

As usual in this mobile civilization of ours, a number of our brethren have moved or been nm out of one town and begun to sink tentative roots into another. 
TOM SCHREIBER has resigned his Fides Press post at ND to take a position with the Institute for Service to Education in Johnson City North; the institute is designed to succor pov­erty-stricken students, we arc told. Tom's wife, Angela, who has been assistant editor of the Catholic Boy and Miss, has transferred her tal­ents to the Office for Economic Opportunity in Paradise-on-thc-Potomac, Washington, D.C. 
LARRY REISTER, after a brief tour of duty as head man in a John Hancock agency in Phoe­nix, Ariz., has returned to Indiana — Hammond, 
•to be precise — as general agent over a territory comprising the northern third of Indiana and of Illinois, including Chicago. 
J.\CK EASLEY has trekked north from Towson (just north of Baltimore), Md., to Schenectady, N.Y., and BILL HABERMAXX east from Beloit, Wis., to the Berkshire town of PittsHcld, Mass. 
The South Bcnd-Mishawaka community h.is lost the presence (and the taxes) of STEVE TSALIKIS, recently moved to Niles, 111., and Dr. FR.\NK W.\LERKO, just winding up his first winter in snowy St. Paul, ^finn. 
A mild California exodus has brought JOHN MUELLER to Houston, Tex., and JOHN SMITH to the rugged Grand Teton countr>* of Jackson, Wyo. 
BROTHER PEDRO HAERING CSC has re­turned to Diijaric Hall at ND from Clevebnd; BROTHER ELWIN BORES CSC has been sum­moned from St. Francis High School in Moun­tain View in the Bay area south to the St. Anthony Bo^-s School in Long Beach (suburban LA), Calif.; and BROTHER RENATUS FOLDENAUER CSC has been transferred within New York state from Flushing to Cardinal Mooney High School in Rochester. 
BROTHER IVAN . . . DOLOROSO 

Yet another Holy Cross Brother, IVAN DOLAN, writes sadly from St. Joseph's School in Dacca about his own enforced temporary transfer. 
Floods and pestilence and the "ordinary*** frus­trations of mission work he can take. And the flight of the Garos and their one-by-one " return was being overcome. But the recent Indian-Pakistani set-to and Red China threats have uprooted him from Biroidakuni for now. 
He reports: ".. . a lot of damns have gone over the water since you wrote. Your letter caught up with mc here in Dacca only some time after the Indian attack was repulsed and the cease fire had come into effect. . . . 
"For the duration I have been here in Dacca. When hostilities erupted, we ^vho were in the border areas were asked to come to Dacca for our 
ALUMNUS JANUARY }966 FEBRUARY 
own safety. And, as things are not back to normal yet, I am still here. In the meantime, my school is going on somehow or other, but there is going to be an awiul lot of work to catch up on once I get back there. 
"To keep busy here — besides running my school by remote control, so to speak — I am building a new schoolhousc at another station some 25 miles from here. The old schoolhouse was blown away in the c>cIone of last May and the students have been having their classes under the trees since. The structure I am putting up may sink, but it will never blow au*ay. It is brick and reinforced concrete throughout. As there is no place for me to slay at the site of the work, I commute on my motorbike. I have also been as­signed for the duration to help out here at our school of industrial trades. We prepare boj-s and young men to be electricians, carpcnteis, or ma­chinists. Most . . , are dropouts from school be­cause of poverty or those who have passed tlic matriculation exams but are too poor to go on to college and have no future in the vilhgcs as farmers due to lack of land. 
"My brother, FR. J. PAT DOL^VN CSC, is doing some research work and teaching on a Ford grant at the U. of Columbia. S.C., as well as giving lectures here and there about the States. I think he will be away from ND for about two years. He had another book or two published re­cently. 
"I have lost my book of addresses and benefac­tions, so I probably won't get out anything like a formal Christinas letter this year. This year I have been unable to hear even one ND game on the radio, but I hope to be able to pick up the Michigan State game tomorrow. Have been getting the scores and ratings. It has been another grand season and I hope today's game puts ND right up on top. 
"The next day — just listened to the Michigan State game. It \\-as a good trj*. Next year will be the year to u'atch for. 
"I wish you a most holy and happy Christmas, and the same to all my friends and benefactors of the Class of *47. Would that I were back at my own mission. Pray hard for that intention." 
A DEAL? I promise all of you I'll print your message free If you'll just use a 4-cent card To get it through to me! 
—JACK MILES, Secretary 

1948 
GEORGE J. KEENAN 177 Rolling Hills Rd., Clifton, N.J. 07013 
From the Alumni Office: 
FREDERICK G. BREMER recently u-as named chief of the international programs staff of the Federal Aviation Agcncj- material scr\-ice. Fred, a 14-year career government employee, lives with his family in Bethesda. Md. 
JAMES W. FrrZGER.\LD has been appointed general order manager of the Philadelphia center of Joseph T. Ryerson & Son. Inc., the nation's leading distributor of steel, aluminum, industrial plastics and metalworking machinery. Jim began working for Ryerson in 1948. He lives with his wife, Marj- Jane, and their seven children on Beech Tree Dr., Maple Township, Pa. 
Dr. SAMUEL J. HAZO, poet and assistant dean of the College of Arts and Sciences and pro­fessor of English at Duquesne U.. Pittsburgh, gave a poetry- reading recently in the Little Theater at St. Xfarj-'s College. His poetry has appeared in many periodicals and the books, Discovrry and 
Other Poems, The Quiet Wars and My Sans in 
God. Earllier this year he made a lecture tour of Greece and the Middle East for the State De­partment. 
The new ND director of admissions. Brother RAPHAEL WILSON, abo is an associate professor of biolog>- and engaged in research at ND's Lobund Laboratory. It was in these latter capacities he recently conducted a seminar at the U. of Ken­tucky ^fedical School on radiation studies in germ-free animals. He also addressed a recent Bone Marrow Transplantation and Radiation Recovery Conference at the U.S. Naval Radiological De­fense Laboratory- in San Francisco. 
WILLIAM B. BALL was presented with the annual Signum Fidei Nfedal from LaS.tIIe College, Philadelphia, at their Homecoming Weekend in October. Bill is executive director of the Penn­s>*lvania Catholic ^Velfarc Conference. 
1949 
LEO I. WESLEY 
155 Driftwood Lane, 
Rochester, N.Y. 14617 
From the Alumni Office: 
CHARLES E. LIENH.ART has been promoted to vice-president of the St. Joseph Valley Bank of Elkhart, Ind. Chuck joined the firm in 1961, and will continue as head of the mortgage loan de­partment. He recently coiiipleti-d tlie management development seminar for mortgage bankeis at Michigan Stale U. 
Former ND football pbyer FRANK E. G.AUL has^ been appointed vice-president of sales and mar­keting for Noriralk Truck Lines, Inc> in Cleveland. 
1950 
JOHN W. THORNTON 
4400 Monserrate St., Coral Gables, Flo. 33146 
Please fill out the information card attached to 
the ALUM.N'US magazine and send it to mc. 
Wc hope and pray that you had a merry 
Christmas and that you will have a happy and 
successful New Year. 
Much football has been put in the history 
books by the time nf the publication of this 
note. DAN ROWL.'V.XDS of our ND Club of 
Greater Miami sponsored the ND-Southern Cali­
fornia TV party at his Major .Appliance. Fr. 
JACK L. TOTTY, assistant pastor at the Little 
Flower Church in Coral Gables, and Dan remi­
nisced their playing days together in the band 
and orchestra at ND. 
Both at the Deauvillc Hotel, Miami Beach, the night before the ND-Miami game, and at our home on the afternoon of the game, we enjoyed seeing many friends, among whom were GERRY JOHNSON and his son, Gerry, from Jacksonville. He now has eight children and is looking fine. Norah and PAUL ".MACK" SCHAEFFER and brother, Gerry, \%erc here. We heard that TOM LUTZ was around but did not spot him. Kathy and RUSS SKALL flew in from Applcton. Wis. Nfary (formerly Mary Hudson of SMC '49) and JOE JUDGE arc now in Charleston. S.C., in many fields of finance. Wc also saw Jean and CHUCK CO.VXOR, and Mary and DICK MOR.AN. VERNE KELLEY and his lovely wife were on \*acation before and after the game in Miami Beach. I understand that JERRY TILLMAN has taken the Class lead now with 12 children. We also visited with Arlene Sieve whom many of you will remember as the secretary to Jack Broder­tck, formerly assistant dean and now full pro­fessor at ND Law School. There were many others here, such as .MOOSE KR.\USE. JIM FRICK, Fr. EDMUND JOYCE, JOHN FISCHER, now a doctor of obstetrics and g\*necoIo(n'" in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., Dotty and GERRY RAM5BER­GER, Jean and GENE BUTTNER. ARMANT) D'AGOSTINO of Dover, N.J., could not make that game and his inability to do so permitted my four children to see the game with his tickets. 
The Wednesday evening before the North-South game in the Orange Bowl in Miami we had a nice get-together with Coach Ara Parseghian, and players TONY CAREY, TOM LONGO, BOB MEEKER, D.\N McGINN and NICK RASS.AS, all of whom reflected the highest NT) image. My wife, Mary Pat, did a good job of collecting sig­natures at this get-together for my son, John. Coach Parseghian, jesting, stated that all through the season he has had the backing of all Alumni. (*'We'rc with you all the way. Coach, win or tie,** was the quote he used.) In a very serious vein, however, he stated that he and his coach­ing staff promise us a well-conditioned team, drilled soundly in fundamentals, and imbued with the highest ND spirit. Needless to say, we can ask for nothing more. 
For any of you who arc planning a spring vaca­tion, the Florida ND Clubs arc planning the annual weekend International Convention to West End, Grand Bahama Island, for April 29, 30, and May 1, 1966, if all goes according to schedule. West End is only about 20 minutes from West Palm Beach and 35 minutes from Miami by air. 
We have heard from JIM QUIGLEY who is now general counsel of the Pan American Fire and Casualty Company in Houston, Tex.; from RALPH STRUHS who is now in Amarillo, JIM BEYMER in Pittsburgh, and M.ARTIN ROMAN­AK who has now moved to Maple Heights, Ohio. 
ClASSES 
Had a nice note from JACK SAXFORD who Is now with tlie Federal Aviation Agency- in Atlantic City. WALT and TERRY MURPHY arc now lo­cated at Princeton U. If my memory scrv'es mc correctly, I i-isitcd WALT MURPHY, LOU LOURO. PAT PLUXKETT, BOB GAWNE, JACK COURTNEY and JIM CREAMER at "Pup Tent Camp Tlirec and a Half" at Camp Pendle­ton several days before they were shipped to Korea from San Diego. The Marines were taught that the Chinese would not counterattack too far. \VALT MURPHY u-as living proof that this be­lief was erroneous. However, he has now recov­ered. He obtained his PhD in political science in 
1957, spent a year at the Brookings Institution in 1958, and then went on to Princeton. I am sure some of you have read his books and articles. 
Wc had a nice note from Joan and HANK KETTERER of Phocnbc, Ariz. Hank is an in­strumental instructor in two elementary schools there and is doing well- Wc had a nice note from Rev. JAMES MORAX CSC, who is impronng, having graduated from crutches to canes. Our prayers remain with him for a continued re­covery. 
If you get to that wonderful cit>* in the sky, Denver, be sure to look up Jinny and BILL BRADLEY, Bill is now the legislative analyst for the Denver City Council. Tliey have four boys and two girls. Bill was inquiring about MIKE SWISTOWICZ, DICK McGOLDRICK and many others. I can report that "SCOOTER" COUTRE is doing well in Miami. He, Fr. FRAXK XE.\LY OP and I last August rcUvcd every game in 1946-1949 at a get-together. Fr. Frank taught many of us the **sacraments" course and is now here at the Newman Center of the U. of Miami after hanng been at X'D for 18 years. He is look­ing fine and allowed my wife's brother. Rev. TOM FEELEY CSC, to use his St. Tliomas Aquinas chapel evcr>' day during the Christmas holiday vacation. 
Again, I wi%h everybody a happy Xew Year and hope that you tise the information blanks the ALUMNUS magazine furnishes so that wc can let evcrj-body know what you are doing and where you arc. 
—JOHX W. THORNTON, President 
1951 
ROBERT KLINGENBERGER 3405 Thames Dr. Forf Wayne, Ind. 46805 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 • 12 
Below is a list of Class of '51 wlio plan to at­tend the reunion. Many have not returned the questionnaire as yet, please do it now. 
Coming to tlie Reunion: .ALFRED E. ABBEY, BRO. ALEXIUS AD.\M CSC, D.WID AMBERG, WILLIAM ANHUT, TOM ANSELMAN, ROB­ERT M. AULD, D.\NIEL M. BAGLEY, JOHN 
A. BiULEY, THOM.^S A. BECKMAN, THOMAS .M. BOLAND, STEPHEN BOLVCOWSKI. LEO 
J. BRE.VNAN JR., EDMUND F. BROWN, ED­WARD L. BURKE, MICHAEL M. CARR, THOMAS W. OVRROLL, DANIEL R. CON­NELL, FRANK A. CROVO, FRED J. CURTO, WILLI.AM H. DALTON, RICHARD D. DOLAN, JOSEPH M. DUKERT. CARL A. EIFERT, WILLIAM N. FARAB.J^UGH, PHILLIP A. FIN­.\EGAN, ROBERT C. FISHER, EDMOND W. FITZGER.-\LD MD, GILBERT J. FOX, BER­NARD E. FRANZ, JAMES W. FRICK, JOHN T. GERLITS, J.AMES P. GHIGLIERI, CLETUS O. GILSO.N JR.. WILLI-AM G. GREIF, ALBERT 
S. GUARNIERI, BERN.ARD J. (JERRY) HANKS, WILLIAM E. H.-VRTY, ROBERT L. HAUTER, JOHN D. HEGARTY, JAMES G. HENRY, ROBERT L. HENSLER, STEPHEN 
F. HERR, EUGENE E. HOFF.MAN, JOSEPH 
W. HOFFMAN CSC. STANLEY J. INSLEY, 
R. EUGENE JOHNSON, RAY.MOND C. JO­NARDI, JOSEPH D. JUDGE JR., ROBERT 
J. KLINGENBERGER, ROBERT L. KNIGHT, JAMES P. KOHN, BER.\ARD J. LAVINS, CHARLES M. LUECKE, RICHARD J. MC­DONALD, WILLIAM L. McKILLIP, J. RICH­ARD MacDO.N'ALD, ROBERT J. MAHONEY, ROBERT G. \L\RGET, HARLEY B. MARK­HAM, JOHN V. MILEWSKI, JOH.N K. 
MOORE, JAMES B. MOSES. GEORGE J. MURPHY, ALLEN C. W.ARD, JOHN D. NAUGHTIN, ROBERT L. O'CONNELL, iL\R­TIN R. O'CON.NOR, CHARLES C. O'DON­NELL, J.AMES J. O'DO.V.VELL, HARVEY E. O'NEILL, JOHN D. O'.NEIL, L.AWRENCE C. PANOraO, DANIEL J. PARISH, MICHAEL J. PIARULLI, ROBERT E. PRUE, RUDOLPH W. ROG, JAMES A. ROGERS, NICHOLAS SCALERA, GEORGE S. SCHWIND, JOSEPH 

D. SHELLY JR., RICHARD E. SHIP.MAN, THO.M.AS J. SHEEH.AN, D.WID S. SXrVTH, VINCENT J. STE. .MARIE, CORNELIUS P. SULLIV.AN, PASQUALE J. TANNONE, RICH­ARD E. TEPE, WALTER J. TURNER, THEO­DORE F. TWARDZIK, KENNETH T. W.AT­KINS, GEORGE W. WEBER, ROBERT 0. WESTRICK, WILLIAM A. WHFrESIDE JR., JERRY WOMBACHER, JOSEPH E. McNITT, PATRICK J. BARRETT, THONLAS E. KIGIN, ARTHUR F. SMUCK, JAMES J. GILLIS, JO­SEPH M. G.AYDOS, GERALD J. BARR.AS, RICHARD A. HERRLE, JA.MES B. NACHTE­GALL, JOHN B. MORGAN, JOHN J. JOYCE, JOSEPH P. GALLOWAY, JOHN F. MENDOZA, THOMAS XL 0'BRIE.\ JR., FR.ANK J. VOGT, DAVID A. GUSHURST, THOXUS E. HUBER, ROBERT J. RAYMOND, ROBERT A. WILLI.AMS. 
Undecided: JOHN J. BRODERICK, JUDGE JOHN R. CORYN, WILLIAM J. COONEY MD, CHARLES A. DESCH MD, GORDON W. DOUGHERTY JR., FR.ANK E. FERRIN. ROB­ERT L. HASSENAUER, HUGH KENNEDY, WILLIAM P. HUBBERT, PAUL A. HUDAK, THOMAS A. KRAUS, JOSEPH J. LAUBER, 
F. JOH.N LEMAIRE, C. RICH.ARD MARSHALL, THEODORE N. FERDINAND, ROBERT J. MIGELY JR., JOSEPH -M. MOSCHELLA, FR. JOHN F. O'BRIEN, D.AVID J. O'LEARY, ED­WARD (TED) O'MALLEY, EUGENE M. RILEY, GEORGE J. SCHWARTZ, FRED W. WALLNER, GEORGE C. WESKERCHEN CSC, GER.ALD A. KER.NS, RUSSELL T. VAN­KEUREN, THOMAS F. CARTER, JAMES F. RAGAN, ROBERT L. BOCHNER, LUCIUS (PETE) CASSIDY. 
In September, H.ARRY HANIGAN, JERRY HANKS, BOB HOFF, BUD HERR, P.AT O'SULLIVAN and mj-self spent the Purdue-game ^vcekcnd in Lafayette as guests of Joey and DICK MacDONALD. 
D.AN B.AGLEY is now covering seven states selling Powerlock gym floors. 
Captain "MATTY" O'DONNELL is with the Judge Advocate General's Oflice in Washington, D.C., and living in Virginia. 
"HANK" MADDEN is liring in Pittsburgh, Pa., going to more school and supervising an Allb-Chalmers Plant. 
—ROBERT J. KLINGENBERGER, Secretary 

 1952 
HARRY L. BUCH 600 Board of Trade BIdg., Wheeling, W. Va. 26000 
1953 
DAVID A. McELVAIN 2328 Alexander Terrace, Homewood, III. 60430 
From the Alumni Office: VERNON S. SUTTON of South Bend recently was named sales manager of Vcrsal, Inc., manu­facturer of electric and gasoline golf carts mai^ keted under the Viking name. Formerly Midwest sales manager for South Bend Toy Manufacturing Co., division of Playskool Manufacturing Co., Vcm will head field sales and distribution. A letter from Brother GERONTIUS MC­CARTHY CSC at Monroe Catholic Central High School, Monroe, Mich., includes a copy of the school's Alumni News with a "spotlight" on PAUL 
E. BRAUNLICH. Paul %*-as noted as "a father, an alumnus, a family man, a businessman, a politician, a civic leader and Catholic gentleman** by the newspaper. He began legal practice in Monroe after obtaining a law degree from ND in 1939, and lias senxd as legal adnsor to the Mon­roe County Board of Supcr\Tsors, acting city at­torney and president of the county bar association. Last year, Paul won election to the post of prose­cuting attorney. He and his ^vife. ^ura , live at 425 St. Mary's Ave. with their three sons and a daughter. 
JOHN R. ifacINNES is a lay mission-helper in 

Uganda, Africa, and recently wrote a Christmas 
letter marking the end of his second year of teach­
ing at St. Mary's Seminary. He taught English 
and math last year, but plans to teadi only 
English this coming term in their four classes, 
grades seven through 10. 
He writes: "The political and economic situation 

in Uganda is very good. Wc have a stable national 
government headed by Prime Minister Dr. Milton 
Obote. 
"With the gifts many of you sent last Christ­

mas, I have bought over 1500 paperback books to 
use in the class libraries and in English classes. 
Now I need to purchase tlie more expensive Iiard­
co\*cr books required for the 100 seminarians we 
will liavc in January'. And with a 10th grade 
coming this year, outside reading and reference 
books arc more necessary than before.*' 
If you would like to help John in Uganda, 

gifts may be sent to: Lay Mission-Helpers Associa­
tion, 1531 W. 9th St., Los Angeles, Calif. 90015. 
1954 
MILTON J. BEAUDINE 21 Signal Hill Blvd., 
E. St. Louis, III. 62203 
It's time to start thinking about buying your football tickets for the '66 season. Order them early 'cause the Irish will be tough this season and tickets hard to come by at the last minute. Our Reunion Party will be on Sept. 24 after the Purdue game. At our last party wc had 52 returning classmates which is about one-fourth as many as at our 5-ycar reunions. See you in September. 
My plea for mail in the Scpt.-Oct. issue was answered — slightly. (Two letters received.) FRANK "BLACKIE" JOHNSTON wrote from Vancouver, Britbh Columbia, where he is with the 
B.C. Lions Football Club (622 Seymour St.). Blackic is in his fiftli year as an assistant offensive coach. In 1*J64 tlic Lions won the Grey Cup which symbolizes supremacy in Canadian Pro Football. The JohrL<tons have four children: Theresa 7, Jerome 4, Joseph 3, and Susan 2. You may remember Blackic*s wife. Boots who worked as a secretary in the Law School. Blackie would 10%^ to see any classmates who ever get up to Van­couver, *'The Gateway to the Orient.'* 
JOE COOK also dropped me a line. Joe man­aged to stay a bachelor for four years and then took the plunge while working in Central Amer­ica. He and his bride now reside in South Gate, a part of Los Angeles, with their two children (boy and a girl). Joe works for Glass Containers Corp., a subsidiary of Hunt Foods, as industrial relations manager. Joe would like some information on our Latin American classmates such as CARLOS AMAIZ and EDMUXDO OLEA. (Me too.) Kfaybe Carlos or Edmiindo would sum up the "goings on" of all our Latin American classmates and send it to mc. How about it? Joe occasionally hears from JOE SMEARING from Whiteland, Ind., and he ran into TOM HOLLAND last sum­mer. Tom is a Fort Wa\Tie banker. Joe would like to hear from LEN DURY. 
PAT H. L.-\LLY felt sorry for me, tij-ing to keep YOU GUYS up-to-date on your buddies with no mail, so he decided to drop mc a line. And I quote " .** Thanks Pat (Funny Funny Funny)! Pat can be reached at College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn., where alt b well with Pat, Mary Ann, John, Joseph, and Brigid. 
DAVE AMIDON *59 uTote, correcting an ad­dress published for his brother, PAUL AMIDON. Paul was ordained FR. GORDON C.P. and has been transferred to St. Paul's Passionist Monas­tery, Pittsburgh. Pa. 15203. 
We also heard from FRANK GEORGE, 428 W. Hillside Dr., Mundclein, III. Frank is a news reporter-announcer for NBC Chicago, working a 3 a.m. to noon schedule and tr>*ing to create free­lance fiction on the side. Frank started to our 5-year Reunion and his car broke down — threw a rod and he got sidetracked for two days in Fremont, Ohio. He tried again for our lO-year get-together and ended up in Jackson, Miss., cover­ing the church and school bombings for NBC. How about making our 12^-ycar Reunion Party, Frank? Bring your eight children and your weary spouse! Frank was delighted, as so were wc all, to see %IIKE LONG as associate editor of the Sign. Like the rest of us, Frank wonders what ever hap­pened to PAT CARRICO or JOHN JARNOT. 
Faces in the crowd: (Na\-y and Mich. State) FRED MANN (formerly MANGILARDI). JOHN ifcGINN, JOE McGINN, BILL REYNOLDS, WALT WAGNER and J. D. MADIGAN. 
Not many of you qualified for the prizes offered 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
OASSES 

in the Sept.-Oct. issue, so we have some left for 
the iiist five of the following classmates who write 
me with some material for our next article. Hurry! 
DAN BADURA, JOE BUSH, LEO DESPRES, 
JOE GORMLEY, BRIAN JENNINGS, RICHARD 
MYLES, JOHN REIDY, AL SlUVALSKY, JOHN 
VINCENT, GEORGE BISHOP, BILL FARMER, 
BILL KANE, JOHN SAUL, PAUL BERRY, 
JOHN CASEY, JOHN DILLON, JIM EWALD, 
DON HICKS, JOHN LEENEY, BOB READY, 
and SAM TIANO. How about some help? 
Happy St. Patrick's Day and Easter to you all. 
—MILTON J. BEAUDINE, Secretary 

1955 
PAUL FULLMER 7344 N. Ridge Blvd., Chicago, III. 60645 
First of all, I'd like to thank all of you who 

supported me as a candidate for the national 
Alumni Board. It was a tremendous honor to be 
the first from our class to be nominated, and, as I 
understand it, one of the youngest in history to be 
clioscn. Special thanks to DICK. BURKE, our class 
president, who contacted many on my behalf. 
Also, orchids to TOM CAREY, our Class \-icc­


president, who ser\'ed as chairman of the Chicago 
Club's very successful Rockne Dinner in early 
December. More than 1,200 turned out for the 
dinner which featured Ara and TERRY BREN­
XAX. Again the Class of '53 had the biggest group 
in attendance. 
Among those I saw at the bar were JOHN 

WEITHERS, JERRY PRASSAS. JACK FLYNN, 
JIM GRIFFIN, DICK BURKE, MARTY CUL­
IIANE, JERRY HILLSMAN, JOE KEARNEY, 
MIKE KELLY, TOM IGLESKI, JERRY BRANS­
FIELD, J.\CK PINTER, RICK HICKS, NEAL 
HALLOIt\N, DICK BEEMAN, DAN SHAN­
NON, TONY P/\SQUESI, and WALT GUGLI­
ELMO. 
JOE SASSANO, who has a scries of successful 

seasons at Chicago's Weber High School, was ac­
cepting congratulations on being chosen as toast­
master for the Chicago Tnbune^s big banquet for 
metropolitan players and their coaches. Also, 
FATHER JOHN RYAN made his debut into 
alumni affairs as a member of the clcrgj-. He and 
his dad renewed many acquaintances at the din­
ner. Father John, who is stationed at the Cathe­
dral in nearby JoUet, can be reached at 604 N. 
RajTior. 
Again, my thanks to LEE CREAN \%-ho did a bang-up job on the local arrangements for the Class cocktail part>' after the Southern Cal game. (I can really pick the games, can't I?!) Lee is executive director of the Small Business Develop­ment Center of St. Joseph Cnuniv. It was good to sec guj-s like DICK SCHERER, BERNIE Mc-CLOREY, and DON LANSPA, but I must admit that I used my coaster for notes that day and they can't be read now. So if I talked to you, made a note and you don't sec it in the column, give me a demerit, but sit down and drop me a line. 
BUD LA LONDE probably thinks I threw away his letter just because he now teaches at Michigan State. Actually, it arrived two days after my last column was mailed to the University. (.Actually, Bud, hov%' the heck can you work for those guys after what they did to the Fighting Irish this year?) Bud now has two girls and a little boy. He is associate professor of marketing at MSU. Bud mentioned that he ran into JOE SAUNDERS from Amarillo on the Boulder campus before he left the U. of Colorado. Joe had just returned from several years in Europe and now is living in Ncder­land, Colo. 
Also received a nice note from FATHER JOE O'DONNELL who, I understand, did a great job with the Big Retreat on campus this summer. Hope some of you will be able to join Sandra and me at the couples' retreat at the Fatima House on campus Feb. 25-27. 
I stopped in to see RAY KENNEDY at Time magazine, the citadel of truth and objective re­porting, the last time I *vas in New York. As you know, Ray is in charge of the watusi and other such go-go activities as music editor. JOHN SLAVICK happened to be on the way home from Switzerland, so we had a delightful brunch with the wives at the Plaza. (Editor's Note: No, John is still a bachelor.) John will be heading into South America for the USIA. (Watch those libraries, John, or the "commies" will bum you out on short notice.) 
Saw JACK MAHONEY on the steps of the Waldorf the Friday night before the Army game. I think he is New York's official greeter. The old 
ALUMNUS JANUARY }966 FEBRUARY 
globe-trotter, MARTY GLEASON, was right on Jack's heels. We also saw Marty in Miami where he attended the rites for the '65 Irish, a truly sad ending for a great season. 
While on the international kick, I just learned 
that JOHN KEHN has been assigned to the Esso 
research facility in Abington, Berkshire, England. 
Did you ever realize that Dr. JOHN RYAN looks very much like this year's hero, Nick Rassas? Take a look at the yearbook. On second thought, don't. The shock of looking at those youthful faces was too much for me! 
While on the subject of football associations, BERT METZGER's brother was one of the stars of the Lo)*ola High School team that won the city championship with a convincing victory over the public-league champion. 
Before I left the Miami scene for good, I ran into ART SULLIVAN at the Friday night cock­tail party. He's the big Atlanta insurance man. Also, BILL KILBURG» who is going into the air-conditioning business in Florida (can you think of a better place?), was holding court. I also saw Bill across the parking lot at a game in South Bend. JOHN WEITHERS was lucky enough to work a Miami convention into paying the freight for his junket to the Miami game. He has a tough life. 
Apologies to JIM CAHILL who gave me the details on his ne\%' job at the football Reunion, but as I mentioned earlier, the notes are long gone. I do have his address — 1718 Hcrrick St., N.E., Grand Raptds, Mich. 
It \%-as good to sec DICK HAIRSINE at the Organization '55 meeting at Lattner's Steak House last month. JUNIOR STEPHENS brought Dicfc to the gathering and Dick soon was chewing the fat with JIM YONKE and other members of the group. GEORGE SHELTON, secretary-treasurer of the A. L. Jackson Company, general contract­ing firm headquartered in Chicago, also sits on the company's board. 
FRANK LOLLI is a proud papa again. MIKE HEGARTY came in from Detroit to serve as god­father for young John Michael. Mike reports that he got a "wish you were here" postcard from PAT O'DONNELL wlio was \'acationing i n Hau-aii. Also, Frank talked to BERNIE SMYTH who now is a negotiator for the Airline Pilots As­sociation. Another long-time Lolli buddy, TOM MURRAY, now is a public-relations competitor here in Chicago. 
Might as well report a few more birth announce­ments while I'm at it. BOB WING has added an­other bouncing baby boy to his family. JACK, 
FLYNN has another beautiful babr pri st Iiis 
River Forest mansion. 
One last note — the football Reniuon thu year 
will be after the home opener with Pbrdue. Don't 
say I didn't give you enough notice. DetaHs will 
follow. Let's hear from you, however, before then. 
Those letters are the lifcfolood of this column. 
—PAUL FULLMER, Secretary 

1956 
ALVIN D. VITT 4 Windrush Creek W., St. Louis, Mo. 63141 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • 11 • 12 

If and when the volume of Class mail gets too great for me to read, GEORGE KREMBS has offered the use of a computer for which he has designed an electric eye. After graduation Geoigc received his FhD in electrical engineering at Stanford before joining Phiico Research Labs in Philadelphia in 1939. Currently he is with IBM in Kingston, building electric eyes for computeis so they can leam to read and diaw. Besides all this, George is married and has three daughters at 22 Circle Dr., Hyde Pirk, N.Y. DICK YEA­GER and BRIAN O'NEILL arc also with IBM in Kingston while VIC SHAHAN and PAUL GIROUX arc at the Poughkeepsie and Endicott plants. No wonder IBM stock is where it is. Happy Easter, George! 
Chicago, Atlanta, Jackson\*ille and now 1201 Cheshire Rd., Maitland, Fla., for KEN DAVIS where he is Florida district manager of Westing­house Credit Corp., Industrial Division. The Davises have four children (two girls and twin boys). Martha, Ken's wife, graduated from St. Mary's College in 1939. Ken saw J.ACK HAGAN in Evans­villc, Ind., and BOB ANDREW in JacksonWlle, Fla. 
JERRY HIGGINS and I had lunch recently during Jerry's visit to St. Louis. He is with Foid Motor Co. in dealer development and lives with his family at 633 E. 72nd St., Kansas City, Mo. 
BOB COSTELLO was married last August to 
PICKING FOOTBALL WINNERS is almost the monopoly of Tom Bott '56 and his family in Danville, III. In weekly contests sponsored by a local radio sta­tion the family has picked 10 winners in college football games several times. The three sons have been winners, with Jeff, 7, winning last year, and 6-year­old Chris and Tim, 8, winning in successive weeks lost fall. Mrs. Bott won twice last year, and Tom has picked perfect slates in several past years. Only Kathy, 4, and Jackie, 3, have been shut out. "Our favorite team, Notre Dame, has probably beaten us more than any other," Tom said, "and it's usually when we let our heart get control of our head." With Tom are, left to right: Kathy, Jeff, Chris, Tim and Jackie, on Mrs. Bott's lap. 
ClASSES 
Linda Hcssel. The CostcUos arc li\-ing at 725 W, 
IVashington Ave., Madison, Wis. Bob has been 
with the Insurance Co. of North America for the 
past five years. He wants someone to give him the 
location and status of JOHN O'CONNOR and 
ItARRY LOCKWOOD. Can >T)U? 
JOE DI LALLO and liis wife, LH, recently had 
their third girl. The four girls and Joe live at 61 
Short Hills Ave., Short IlilU, N.J. Also in Short 
Hills is AL PARILLO with Gaj-nor-Ducas Adver­
tbing Agenc>-, XYC (also the father of three girls). 
Joe and Al recently were visited by ANGELLO 
CAPOZZI and his wife who arc living in Madison, 
Wis. while Dr. Capozzi completes his residency in 
plastic surgcrj-. 
JOHN McSWEENEY, an engineer with S.K.F. 
Industries, and his wife, Edith, Hvc in a suburb of 
St. Louis (335 Grccnbriar Lane, Ballwtn, ifo.) 
with their twio children. 
As ah%-a>-5 I enjoyed FATHER TOM CHAM­BER'S phone call last month while he was here in St. Louis interviewing candidates for the Holy Cross Scminar>-. Really, he should take this job as Class secretary. He sees more of the Class tlian anyone. How about it, Tom? Maybe at the re­union this June »vc'II do this, ^ow he'll be afraid to show up. Tom gave me this news: JOHN CHOMEAU is doing graduate work at ND; TONY CiVSTORlN.A, with Marge and their two bo\3 and two girls in Washington while he's with the U.S. Patent Office,* BOB CARR/\NE and his irifc were on the campus for a football game; DON COS­TELLO. Chicago advertising executive, to be mar­ried May 14; PHIL WHITE, married hist spring; PETE CANNON and Ellen x\nn liave moved to a new home in Bctlicsda, Md., with their four chil­dren; G.\RY COOPER lias a new son in Los Angeles; GORDON DI RENZO taught sociology at NT) last summer and is professor of sociology at Fairfield College; TOM TOOMEY, president of his own company in New York; FATHER JOHN RAUB is athletic director of the Ursuline High Scliool, Youngstown, Ohio; WALTER T}VOHY (who we enjoyed knowing in Zahm Hall in '52) who will be ordained a"; a Jesuit in June is at Regis College, Toronto, Canada. Thanks, Tom! 
JOHN CYWINSKI will finally be leaving dtc Ka\y next June lo return to Chicago and pediatrics there with Sue and the family. DICK CLARK and Judy have moved to Park Ridge, III., with their two bo>-s. TOM W.\GEMAN and Betty are adding a room to their home in Elk Grove, 111., for the arriral of number three. JOSEPH MARTELLARO is on the faculty of Indiana U. with a PIiD in 
economics. 
The ND-.-^rmy game weekend prompted JOHN i L KENNEDY to write. Friday night before the game there was a pep rally at the \Valdorf, and cither at the rally or at the game, John wrote: "AL VIROSTEK and «-ife took time off from building houses in the Washington, D.C., area to come to the game. Thc\' now have five children, three girls and two bo>-s. Al said tliat he w ^ defi­nitely planning on the Reunion. Al also reported Iiaving seen SAM GLORIOSO. GEKE ©'CON­NER, president of the Buffalo Club, and ED COSGROVE, both la^ycns in the Buffalo area, temporarily went into the travel agency business and brought a planeload of .Alumni from Buffalo along with them. Gene's wife was expecting their second child and couldn't make the trip. Ed, along wiUi JOHN MURRAY, arc about all that's left of the bachelor contingent. John, also a law)*cr, is practicing in tlic Washington, D.C., arca-
BILL WELDON, a hiwyer witli Nwon, Mudge, etc, attended all of the dances, buffets, etc, and saw the follou-ing: JACK OWEN, Iaw>-er ia Brooklyn; TIM MURPHY, willi Montgomery Wairf; TOM F.VLCINELLI, a lawyer in Maiy-Und; "POGO" REILLY, a hiwycr in New Jerscj-; GORDON DI RENZO, sociology instructor at Fairfield U.; BILL BORACZEK, witli the New York office of the Harris Trust Co.; PETE CAN­NON, management consultant with Booz, Allen & Hamilton in Washington, D.C.; DAN QUIGLEY, in tlie construction business on Long Island; BILL MACKEY, \icc-president of the Belgian Vilhge at the Wcrid's Fair; JIM PHILLIPS, assistant director of the ND band; CHARLIE GORDON, with Drc>-fus & Co. in New York; PAUL COUR­TOIS, with .American Airiincs and who kept busy campaigning for Bill Buckley for Mayor, and to prove his conEer\'ativc credentials, named his son Kc\in "Barry'* Courtois. NICK TRIANO was also at the rally. 
TOM ABRAMS and his wife came to the game all the way from Youngstown, N.Y., new Niagara Falls, where Tom is a cost accountant witli a paper company. LEO O'DONNELL, ^vho is with US Steel, came in from Pittsburgh. JACK DUMAS, making tree lights in Westchester, was also at the 
rally. WAVT ARNOLD is teaching high school in 
Nortliport, Long Island, and has just about com­
pleted the requirements for a PhD. 
BERNIE DEL BELLO and his wife shared a 
box at the game with the Arnolds. Bemie is a 
la^\yc^ witli New York Life. Before the game, JIM 
JfcDO.N.AGH and wife, LEE OSTER (^vhose wife 
was home with the five cluldren in Utica) and 
John had dinner in New York, and tlicn drove out 
to tlic stadium. Jim is with Grumman Aircraft in 
Bcthpagc. Lee is in the bus business in Utica. 
About a month ago JOHN KELLY and JOHN KENNEDY played golf, followed by dinner at the Kelly home in Ilalcsite, Long Island. John is with Republic Aviation and has t\vo children. BOB Mc-DONALD is a reporter with the AVro York Daily A^ews, and has a column in their Long Island edi­tion. After graduation from Fordham Law School last June, JOHN KENNEDY joined the hw firm of Coudcrt Brothers in New York City, also lives in ^lanhattan. 
See you June 10 at tlie Reunion on the campus. Best wishes for a Very Happy and Holy New Year. —ALVLN D. VITT, Secretary 
1957 
JOHN P. McMEEL 30 E. 42nd St., New York, N.Y. 70077 
The Football Reunion Weekend was a tremendous success. So much so that we ^rill plan to repeat the party next fall. More detail on that later. Un­fortunately, the list of those who attended the event u'as mislaid and, therefore, cannot be carried in tliis issue. But let me say that at least 200 showed for the party at Dillon following the game and that 46 rooms w'crc reser\*ed at the fashionable Cit>- Motel. 
From far-off Texas ^roy came MOORE McDON-OUGH and his lovely wife, Yvonne. From the mountains of Colorado Springs came the REICH-ERs and from tlic ''great northwest" was seen Lourdenc and TOM HALEY. From tlie **dcep south" came the LEWISes and DOYLEs. The Midwest irrowd w*as in full strength and for lack of space and fear of missing someone, I will refrain from attempting to recount by memory the clas<:matcs that attended. But plan now to attend next fall. Our special tlianks arc directed to two people wiiose assistance made the party the success it was: DE.\N^ TROESTER and JOHN BARA.NY, DE.NN'Y became so ner­vous the week before that he committed a tragedy 
— he got married! But like the faitliful postman, lie iv-as there by tlie time the weekend rolled around. Kathy and DENNY will be living in Soutit Bend as he continues his Snc work for the Foundation. 
Received a fine letter from PAT CON'WAY up ^linneapolis way. Pat is the manager of the Cor­porate Real Estate Department for Control Data Corp. ^fost likely he will become our first million­aire. Pat reports that BOB MARCO and wife and the Conua\-5 collided in some little bar; and stayed until 2 3.m. Bob is an empire builder with GM's Motor Holding Co. Then as tlic CON\VAYs moved from one watering hole to the next they smacked into CHUCK O'NEIL at tlie St. Paul Athletic Club (I'm a **PIacc Dropper."). Chuck is Still living in Kansas City. 
JIM KIRWIN presently lias a troop of three wtli one on the way. Jim is on tlie Apollo pro­gram at Honeyvvell in Minneapolis. JAMES KEN­NEDY MD was married this summer in Kansas City. Jim made the eternal sacrifice — lie sold his saddle horse prior to tlic wedding. He is due for an Air Force tour soon. Pat reports that Jim is tlie only member of our class lo keep his col­legiate phj-sique (I agree Pat, after seeing a few of the ho>-s the USC weekend). 
BOB MAY is still baching it but Pat reports he is weakening. Take strengtli. Bob, tlicra are still a few of us. Bob has accepted a teaching posidon in Michigan tliis year. A little late but Pat invites all members of the class to his house for a party before or after any of the World Scries games — Whew! Thanks for the invitation and the ne\«, Pat. RAY NELSON and his lovely wife. Sue, had their third child. Ray is an asst. treasurer at the CItase Manhattan working in the aerospace divi­sion. The Nelsons arc habiiating in Larchraont. JIM CIERZNTAK is living in South Bend and teaching American histoiy at Penn High School in Mishawaka. Jim received an iLA in history from Indiana last June. He and Suzy are shepherding three. He reports that CAREY SCHULTEN was with Delta Airlines as a pilot and lived in Atlanta. He and Judy have two cluldren. Carey is also a budding entrepreneur since he owns a coin-operated car wash in Athinta. PAUL HA^VBUTZEL and wife, Lorotta, recently added their second out on the coast. They are living in Camarillo, CaUf. Paul is with 3NL Thanks for all the news, Jim. 
BILL JOLLY was kind enough to write some glowing words about the football weekend. Bill makes a good suggestion in not having it a tele­vised game next year. Both Bill and Jo were sorry that such people as ED FECHTEL, JOHN DUR­BIN, JIM WIG.\L\N, STEVE PENNEY (who has left Birmingham, Ala., and is now lixing in Park Forest, III.), DICK FOX and BING CARLIN could not attend. Let's at least hear about them. LEO MOMSEN is burning up the legal profession in San Diego . . . and has California suffered. First, they lost to ^D and then JIM MILOTA moves back to Arlington Heights and now CHUCK 'TH E BUDDHA" GRACE and lovely wife, Mary-Ann, have moved themselves back to Columbus, Ind. Chuck is pushing the president of Cummins hard. I would hate to have a tiger like tliat backing me up. Welcome back. Chuck. 1 had to witness our good friend JOH.\ HAMMETT taking his bride, Pat, off to Puerto Rico for the next two years. John is still our Class's answer to James Bond. 
I hope I reported earlier that MARK STOREN is now the publicity director of the Cincinnati Ro>-als. Mark held the same job \rith the Baltimore Bullets. JOHN REARDON has left LaGrange and is now down E\-ans\ille, Ind., way. Let's hear about it, John! Janie and DON BARR are now firmly setded in Paris. Anyone who s>-mpatliizes can reach them at 4 Rue Leon Bonnat, Paris 16. 
At the Hammctt shindig was the illustrious ED DEAN — our answer to Hubert Humphrey. Ed is really running the city and it is said that Lindsay doesn't act until he plugs the "Deaner" in. Be­lieve me, it is true! Ed also made it out to South Bend for the Michigan State circus. If he looks like he has gained weight, he hasn't; it is only all that money. AL D.ANT performer admirably at tlie Hammctt Holocaust as he has at the Plain Dealer in Cleveland. Al is a real comer like Grace in an age of goers. Pat and LOU LONCARIC arc making' it big down Atlanta way. Lou is going great guns at E. H. Hutton Investment firm as well as adding another dividend to his family portfolio. This will be tlie second and tlie>- say, "Ya'II come." Good fortune to see BERNIE LYONS in South Bend and Miami. Bcmte is flying the big jets over Vict Nam. He and his family composed of wife and four little gals arc living in Japan. Bemie hopes to call it quits by January- and set up shop somewhere in the Miami area. We hope you will, Bemie. 
Please remember in your prayers Mr. Lyons v\iio is suffering from cancer. Also the mother of our classmate, REX BELL, Clara Bow, who died hist September. 
In dirc need of information, ^fust have it before April 1 or you just may be gazing at a lot of white space. Please cooperate 
—JOHN McXfEEL, Secretary 

1958 
ARTHUR L. ROULE, JR. 1709 Indiana Ave., LaPorte, Ind. 46350 
It never ceases to amaze me how quickly the lime passes bcttvecn publication deadlines for the ALU&INUS, but it is time again to submit our newsletter — so herc goes. 
This item should have been included in our last issue, but due to your secretary's shifting about in recent months, it was inadvertently omitted. BOB MORETTI dropped a line last July with the fol­lowing news. Bob and his wife, Maril>Ti, now have three children and have been living in California since graduation. Last year (1964) Bob was elected to the California legislature as assemblyman for the 42nd District. His district office address is 12444 Victory Blvd., Suite 401, North Hollywood, CaliL GENE LEYVAL acted as his campaign manager and is now serxing as a consultint to the Wa>-s and Means Committee of the State Assembly. Gene is also a member of the California Bar. 
Bob also reports that BOB GUSHING is still in the Na\y and will apparently make a career of ft; PAT KANE is now in ^Vashington ^vith an urban rcne%val firm performing arehitcctural duties. GARY COOPER is now a captain in the Marines and is stationed on a destroyer based at San Diego. BILL O'BRIEN recently moved to Cali­fomia where Bill is opening a new sales territory for his company. TONTT GONZALEZ is with Del Monte Foods. As a closing remark. Bob mentions 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
OASSES 

that he ^rould appreciate hearing from anyone passing through. His ofiicc phone is 983-0910. 
Dr. DICK KLINE is in Iiis fourth and final year of surgical residency at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. In July he will finish at Mayo and start a two-year tour with the Air Force. Dick and his wife, Nanc>% now have two children: a boy and a girl. Their address: 1122 First St., N.E., Rocliestcr^ Minn. 
Congratulations arc in order for DICK KWAK and wife, Mary Anne, on the birth of daughter, Lisa Ellen, on Aug. 28, In Chicago; and to Mr. and Mrs. RON FARROW on the arriral of their fifth daughter, Carol Lee, on July 16. The Far­rows' address: 3738 Brecn Drive, Indianapolis. 
Warmest congratulations also to two classmates recently ordained to the priesthood. Class President DON ifcNEILL CSC u-as ordained on Dec. 18, 1965 in Rome where he has been studying for the past scv'cral years and observing with great inter­est the sessions of the Vatican Council, His address is: Collegio di S. Croce, Via Aurelia Antica 391, Rome. Also BOB DEVINE OSES u-as ordained Oct. 30 for the Obbtcs of St. Francis de Sales in the Cathedral of Sts. Peter and Paul, Phihdclphia. He offered his first solemn Mass tlic next day at Our Lady of Fatima Church in Sccane, Pa., witli Fr. JOHN SMYTH '57 ser%ing as subdeacon. 
Lt. PETER O'CONNOR, 301 Shennecossctt Rd., Groton, Conn., wrote to tell us that he is present­ly stationed at the Navy submarine base at New London, scrv*ing as ass't. public works officer. Pete spent his first two years after graduation with a Nav-y construction battalion in the West Indies. After several years working as an engineer with the Port of New York Authority, he returned to active duty with the Navy as a civil engineer. Pete and his wife, Pat, were expecting their first child in October. 
LEO SCHLOTFELDT and Iiis wife, Barbara, now have four children, the youngest being John Patrick, bom Nov. 23, 1964. Leo is vice-president of Sourdough Healing, Inc., in Fairbanks, Alaska. Until recently, ROGER PFEIFFER was a periodic a-isilor to Fairbanks in Iiis capacity as a sales repre­sentative for Simmons mattresses. Early in 1965 Roger was transferred to Phoenbt. The Schlot­feldts' address: 210 Well Street, Fairbanks. 
KEVIN REILLY who with brother, Don, was pictured on the cover of the last issue of the ALUMNUS, dropped us a note with news of other classmates in the financial coumiunity. Don and Kevin, as stated in the article in the last issue, are both members of the New York Stock Ex­change. Kevin hastens to mention that BILL BOURNE and JOHN FL/\NAGAN are also mem­bers; Bill as a partner in Putnam, Coffin & Burr Co., and Jack as an odd lot broker for Cirlisle, Jacquelin & Co. Twins TOM and BILL MURPHY arc both account executives with Edu'ards & Han­ley and Co. Kevin Reilly's address is 36 Wall St. N.Y. 
Mrs. Chuck Speth \\Tites to give us her husband's new address: dpt . CHARLES R. SPETH, 077108, USMC; Hq.Co., Hq. Bn., 1st Mar. Div.; G-3 Section; Fi>0 San Francisco, Calif. 96601. Mrs. Spcth's address is 115 Chasin Circle, Camp Pen­dleton, Calif. 92055. 
Tliat's all the news we have received by way of correspondence, hut I would like to mention the enjoyable get-together wc had following the North­western game at ND on Oct. 2. I won't attempt to list all those present (my memory fails mc as I grow decrepit with age and I have given up on trying to manage a guest fist at aff^airs of this type). Suffice it to say that it u-as very pleasant to see all those who attended and plans arc already under way to repeat the affair naxt year. This would be an opportune time to announce the date in order tliat you may mark your calendars; please note tliat we are planning our annual After-game Reunion for Oct. 8, following the Army game. Hope to sec you tlicrc. 
JIM BARR is manager of sales for S.B.C. Cor­poration, a di\Tsion of IBM. His address is 5860 £ . 79tli, Indianapolis. 
ED HARDIG was married in South Bend on July 24 to the former Miss Kathryn Joan \Volfe, also of South Bend. The Hardigs arc residing at 1625 North Gordon Dr., South Bend. 
And DENxVIS F. S.MITH, who attended la^v scliool at Indiana U. after graduation from ND and is now practicing here in La Porte, Ind., with the firm of Smith and Smith, was married on June 26 to the former Miss Sylvia Ann Mcltinos. They arc residing at 1102 Jefferson Ave., La Porte. 
—ARTHUR L. ROULE, Secretary 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
1958 Law 
JOHN F. MARCHAL 
Marchal & Marchal, 
116-118 W. 4th St., 
GreenviUe, Ohio 45337 
1959 
JOSEPH P. MULLIGAN 3624 Fiesta Way, Middletown, Ohio 45042 
From the Alumni Office: 
A recent post card from Louis J. Trinley in 
Pouipano Beach. Fla., gives us the latest news on 
his son, THOMAS L. TRI.VLEY. After gradua­
tion Tom ser\'cd with the 7th Fleet In the Pacific 
for three years. After the Na*T he joined DttPont 
Corp. as a chemical engineer in Philadelpliia. He 
has since been transferred to their Chiaigo offices. 
His current address is 9633 South Prospect Ave., 
Chicago, 111. 60643. 
1960 
JOHN F. GEIER 1045 linden Ave., Wilmetie, III. 60091 
From the Alumni Ofiice: 
A recent letter from ROBERT G. D. BEXNETT 
in Glen Ellyn, 111., gives the Litest data on his 
family and .some neighboring ND grads. He 
wrote: 
"Sue and I celebrated our third wedding anni­
versarj', Nov. 3. ^Vc have a daughter, 1, and are 
living at 482 C Duane Terrace in Glen Ellyn, only 
a few blocks from the ED McKEOWNs and the 
WHIZ O'MALLEYs. 
''After graduation I worked in public accounting 
with Arthtir Andersen & Co, and now have a 
CPA certificate. I also spent six montlis at Fort 
Leonard Wood. In April, 1965, I joined Sears, Roe­
buck and Co. and am now programming com­
puters. I've been pursuing an MBA degree in 
the evening at LT. of Chicago for the Jast year; 
onlv four more vears to go. 
"I've met BE.\TLE LaMOXTAIGNE, TOM 
M.-\TUR^\ and JOH.N' McKEE at the Touchdown 
Bar following each home game this year- .. . I 
also ran into TED FITZGER/\LD after the last 
game; he's living in Hebron. Ind., now," 
Air Force 1st Lt. RICHARD F. L.-\RK recently 
received the Distinguished Flying Cross for "hero­
ism and extraordinary* achievement" during a 
mission over South Viet Nam, Dick piloted a 
C-I23 Provider plane over mountain terrain for 
more than three hours, dropping fiares to light the 
area surrounding a special forces camp besieged 
by the Viet Cong. He was cited for preventing the 
camp from being overrun and enabling defending 
forces to inflict hea\'y losses upon the enemy. Dick 
is attached to the 309th Air Commando Squadron 
at Tan Son Nhut Airfield. 
PATRICK E. MAXTEY writes from Stanford. 
Calif., with some news about his activities. In 1961 
he received a master's degree from the U. of Wis­
consin and a PhD in electrical engineering from 
Stanford U. in Jan., 1965. He is currently on the 
staff at Stanford leadiing in the electrical engi­
neering department. 
1961 
NICK PAIIHNICH 
34 Dartmouth Rd., 
W. Orange, f^.i. 07050 
REUNION 
JUNE 10 • n '12 
From the Alumni Oflice: 
CARL M. WALSH received a degree of juris doctor from the DcPaul U. College of Law in June. Since then he has passed the Illinois Bar exam and was admitted to practice Nov. 18. 
JAMES M. DEE's mother writes that Jrni is 
an Air Force 1st Lt. stationed at Danang AB in 
South Viet Nam. Jim arrived there Sept. 15 and 
will serve for one year. His address is: FV 3130112, 3IIth Air Command Sq. Dr. 11, APO San Fiao-CISCO, Calif. 96337. 
STANLEY C. FEDEWA recently was promoted 
to the position of assistant to the director, Mich­
igan Catholic Conference, Lansing, AOch., an or­
ganization founded in 1963 by five Michigan 
bishops to coordinate the Church's activities in 
tlie areas of education, social action, sodal welfare 
and public information. He graduated first in his 
class at Michigan State U. with a master's degree 
in communication arts and political science. 
JOHN C. CAVAUER has been promoted to the 
post of field sales administration manager at Itck 
Business Products, Rochester, N.Y. Prior to this 
promotion, John was in the market research divi­
sion of Itek. Also a member of the National Mon­
ogram Club of ND, John resides with his wife and 
four daughters at 9 Old Post Rd., Fairpoint, N.Y, 
1961 Law 
JOHN N. MORELAND 
Bookin & Moreland, anVi E. Main St., Ottumwa, Iowa 52501 
1962 
TERRENCE F. McCARTHY 31957 Williamsburg/ 
St. Clair Shores, Mich. 48082 
TOM WALSH has been sold on California. Tom, wife Nancy and cight-month-old Danny have moved to San Diego. Tom works for the 3M Co. and specializes in selling audio-visual equipment to San Diego's education market. JOHN TILXCY has 
been trunslerred to L.A. by Control Data Corp. 
1st Lt. GEORGE E. LANE JR. is stationed at Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo., with his wife and son, George. They all hope to move back to Boston near the first of the year where George will continue his law studies. Air Force 1st Lt. DAVID W. STRUTZ is a missile launch officer at Elbworth AFB in the Black Hills of South Dakota. Congratulations arc in store for David and his wife, the former Sonja Romslo of International Falls, Minn., on the expected birth of their first child in February-. Congratulations also to WILLIAM P. MOR^VN and Creda Marie Bedard of Ttdsa on their mar­riage last Oct. 23. Bill is completing work on his doctorate in theoretical physics as a National Science Foundation Fellow at the U. of Rochester in N.Y. A belated congratulations to JOHN A. WATLING JR. on his marriage last September to the former Dawne Marie Jones. John works for 
U.S. Steel in Lorain, Ohio. 
Concerning the five-year reunion in June, 1967, you will receive all the particulars from the Alum­ni Office Well in ad^-ance. .Also, in future articles I'll print info on it. A sizable turnout showed up' at the Morris Inn after our Reunion Football Week­end against So. Cal. Next year the reunion game will be the Army game, Oct. 8, with a short get-together at the Morris Inn afterwards. 
Congratulations to DENNIS STEROSKY and wife, Doris, who are expecting their fint child soon. Sandra and TERRY McCARTHY were blessed with a baby boy, Brendan A., last Septem­bcr. D.-\N KRALIK is Brendan's godfather. Dan, who is a step au'ay from a PhD in education, is the principal of Bridgman High School, Bridg­man, Mich. 
ANGIE DABIERO is back playing football. Angie helped organize and w*as player-personnel manager of the Lake County Rifles, a semi-pro team out of ifiindelein, IIJ. Wjfe Pat serx'cd as publicity manager. Angle's playing was curbed by a pre-season operation, but he had enough vigor to coach his Carmcl High to another fine season. 
DANIEL KOENIG sent us a newsy letter. Dan received his MS from Florida State In 1964 and is teaching sociology at Gannon College in Erie. Pa., and is to be congratulated on his marriage to the former Elaine Rinehart of Erie on Jan. 
29. Dede and JOHN McMANUS and their two children arc living In Fort Wayne, Ind. D.AMIEN "DADA" WREN received his law degree from the U. of Chicago a year ago. DICK CORSO Is still with the U.S. Army. 
HARRY McCAWLEY has been promoted to sports editor on the newspaper staff of The Daily Journal in Frankfin, Ind. He was formerly the asst. sports editor and general assignment reporter. 
TOM JORLING and his new bride, Sandy, arc living in Boston where Tom is completing his Bos­ton College bw studies. BARRY MAHER LLB is now Wbrking for the N.L.R.B. in Boston. 
CLASSES 
Mary and GEORGE WILLIAMS recently iiad their tlurd child, a little ^IT\, Kristin. George is an Army 1st Lt. in cliargc of Army recruiting in the Massachusctu area. JOHN TIDGEWELL is work­ing for Anaconda in Sycamore, III. BOB BIOL­CHINI and his bride, Fran, recently returned (rom a European honc>'moon. Bob and Fran will be Ica\*ing for Germany in March where he will be stationed with the Army. MIKE H.^RROX and his August bride, the former Theresa Smith, arc lining in Hanford, Calif. Mike is a Na\->' pilot stationed at Lcnoor Na\-al .Vir Station. Mary and ROX NAHSER recently had their second little girl-The>- live In E\'anston, HI. 
Word has it that DICK X.\AB has dedded to make tlie Army his career. ROX^ MICEK and his wife arc living in Chicago where Ron is managing a macliine shop. LUD GARTXER lias completed work at Harvard Law Sdiool and is currently working for a law finii in Minneapolis. DOUG DRAXE and DAVID C\STALDI are both in their second year at Han-ard Business School. 
DaricIIe and EARL LIXEILAX arc Ii\ing in WalertouTi, Mais. Earl is in his first year at Har­\-ard Business School. JIM KRAUSER and his 
•wife, Marilcc, are living tn Silver Spring, Md.> where Jim is tcacliing school, coacliing, and ^vork­ing for a real estate firm. Jim has formed a basketball team in one of the Washington leagues and pla>4ng for the team are classmates JOHX MACHECA, DICK HUGHES, QUIX DEXVIR and BILL Sa\XLIX. JIM S.ALMOX is back in Elmira, N.Y., with Wcstinghousc. Jim recently received his pilot*s license and has been popping up all over the country' btely. 
I received a nice letter from Xa\-y Lt. (jg) TOM SLEEPER who is presently in Saigon but returns to Hawaii in March where he can be addressed at CI.NCPACFLT(PIO), FPO San Francisco, Calif. 96610. I hope Tom doesn^t mind me quoting from his letter. "Greetings from Saigon, a lovely French city placed in the middle of Southeast Asia and tlie heart of the conflict. The purpose of my slay h to set up the Nav>' radirt reports on tlm wtir and to continue in tlic normal functions of a X'axy Infor­mation Officer. This is a war thai is not really like a war, or at least not like the ones that wc read about in the old history books. It is very different except for one thing. Our bo>'s are still djing to preserve tlic freedom of the world , . . which means, in the long rtm, the freedom of the U.S. itself." In our pravers let us remember Lt. ED­WARD D. BROWN BSME '62, kiUed in Vict Nam, July, 1965. 
In the event that you have sent information which didn*t appear, I kindly ask you to re­submit it. 
—TERREXCE F. McOUlTHY, Secretary 

1962 Law 
PAUL K. ROONEY Simpson Thacher & Bartletf, 1 20 Broadway, New York, N,Y. 10005 
1963 
FRANK P. DICELLO 218 Palmer Hill Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. 06870 
Must apologize for missing the last deadline. Howc**cr the mailbag is bulging and w'c will pro­ceed now on the prcmu^ of better late than never. 
In the mailbag — a letter from AXDREW GRIFFIN. He and ^laria Fitzgerald were married on Aug. 21, in E\-anston, III. Two classmates were in his wedding party, TOM MURPHY, now in North*vcstem Law Scliool, and JOHN McC-^BE who is at Harvard Law. Tlic GrifHns live at 1405 H>*dc Park Blvd. where Andrew is attending the 
U. of Chicago Medical School. 
Also in the Chicago area in August, yours truly had the pleasure of being the best man in the wedding of DON RYAN to Marion Aldigc. Others in the party or attending included TOM VOLLMER. JIM BACHMAXX, TOM JOLIE, GEORGE KERIX, ILAL SUXDER.MAXX, and Marion's popular uncle, TOM DILLOX. Don and wife are now living in New York City where Don is stationed at the Army Induction Center, 39 Whitehall Street. 
From Davenport, Iowa, word comes that DAVE CLEARY has received his MS degree in chcm. engineering and has now entered the seminary at St. Ambrose College in Davenport. Dave reports that he had recently seen TOM SXEE who is flying helicopters with the Marines at Fensacola. 
Also known to be at Pcnsacola arc KflKE BECK­
ER and JOHX HANLEY, 
Congratulations to Judy and TOM JOLIE on 
the birth of a daughter, Sara, in August. Tom 
recently accepted a position in Latin America, and 
he and his family \%'ill be leaving Park Ridge, III., 
next summer. Congratulations, also, to PAUL 
KELLY and wife on the birth of a daughter, 
Johanna. 
TOM MURPHY, CHARLES CLIFFORD and 
GEORGE DOOLEY arc all at Iowa State. Tom 
is working on his PhD in chemistry, Charles is 
working on a PhD in phj-sics, and George is 
wrapping up a MS in metallurgy. 
THONL^S VECCHIOXE is now in his third 
year at Ohio State Medical School and %%-ord has 
it that he is doing quite well. He is interested in 
surgery and worked last summer at the university's 
hospital. He was also elected treasurer of the 
Nu Sigma Nu Medical fratemitj*. 
LEE PIOV-\RCY has written from Nashville, 
Tcnn., where he Is in the third year at Vandcr­
bilt School of Law, Lee will marry Judy Parkes 
of LawTcnccburg, Tcnn., in July and, after taking 
the Tennessee Bar exam, will enter the Army for 
a two-year hitch in the Adjutant General Branch. 
NICK VARRALLO presently is attending the 
Dental School at the U. of Tennessee in Memphis. 
Received the following letter from our loyal 
class rep., JOHN DABROWSKT. "MIKE DEL 
MOXTE was married to Dorothy Holb on Nov. 
20 in Philly, and I was his best man. And 
•We listened to the NT)-MSU game during the reception and cried in our beer. >(ike got his master's from Penn and is now working for Du Pont in Wtlminsion. During the summer I took lime out to get engaged to Dean Kaczorowski, a former Chestnut Hill College lass. . . . I've got another year here at Yale for a PhD. BOB KLEIN is also completing his PhD studies here.** Thanks again for tiie news, John. 
From Fort Knox, Ky., word comes that the ED FITZGERALDs now have two children — a cheerleader, Peggy, bom Sept. 20, 1964, and a fullback, Teddy, bom Oct. 1, 1965. Ed is a bat­talion motor officer in the Armor Training Center. 
Paincs\-il!e, Ohio, was the place and Aug. 28 the date for the wedding of PHIL RYAN and Beck)* Laird. Among those present besides your correspondent %vcre TERRY CRAWFORD, JIM WEBER, and DICK PEPLIXSKI. 
Recently received the following newsy letter from NICK WALZ. "I'm now a helicopter pilot sta­tioned aboard the USS Valley Forge. Other N 0 men. with the squadron arc Captain JIM KENNY and 1st Lt. LARRY GAGGERO. A member of the ship's company is Ens. PAUL McCARTHY. Since leaving Vietnam and coming aboard ship Avc have been crui^ng off the coast of S. Vietnam with occasional trips to the Philippines. On one of th(sc trips I ran into Ens, HAXS GRAUERT who is bombardier navigator aboard the USS Midway and flying strikes into N. Vietnam. While stationed at CIiu Lai, I was serving with 1st Lt. DAVE WALLIX. 
"I recently received an announcement of the marriage of 1st Lt. BOB BURKE to Nancy Louise Conant of Jacksonville, III. Bob is also a Marine pilot and has orders to join tlie rest of us over here soon. 
"Ob, just prior to my leaving Chu Lai, I saw 2nd Lt. MARSHALL REILLY USMC who Js serving as executive officer of a Marine company. He reported that Lt. JOHX M.ATTHEWS is serving ^%ith a Marine tank company in the Da Nang area. 
*'Did you receive notice of the Xov. 22 wedding of Lt(jg) DAVE AMES to Sheila Kelly SMC'65? Dave is stationed on the USS FrankUn D. Roose­velt which is in the Mediterranean." 
BILL MOR.AX married Ann Dorst of Yonkeis, Aug. *64, and is now the proud father of a little girl. Bill is with General Dynamics, Fort Worth, and is completing studies for his master's at SMU. 
Former SBP KEVIN IL\RT is teaching school in the Boston area and taking courses in archi­tecture. 
That's tlie bottom of the mailbag. Please keep the mail coming. The address is at the top of the column. Would especially like to relate any news a^-ailablc on the fellD\\3 in and about Vietnam. 
—FRANK P. DICELLO, Secretary 

1963 Law 
JOSEPH SULLIVAN, Legal Depf., Associates Investment Co., South Bend, Ind. 46615 
1964 
WARREN C. STEPHENS 778 Coleman Ave., Menio Park, Cal. 94025 
Since the lost issue, the demands of new jobs, 
graduate schools and the armed ser\iccs have 
made many cliangcs in tlie status of fellow 
classmates. 
RICH GONSKI has given up professional base­
ball for an insurance career with New York Life. 
He is married and living in Chicago. He writes that 
he Iiad lunch recently with JACK SIMON who 
\v'as in town on an assignment for International 
Har\'cster. 
BILL SCHMA is studying for the priesthood 
at Mt. St. Mar>''s Seminary in Nonvood, Ohio. 
He lias six years of philosophy and theology 
before being ondained; two years at Mt. St. Mary's 
and four at St. John's Seminary in PI>-mouth, 
Afich. 
DENNY HEALY b at the U. of San Francisco 
Latv School on an academic scholarship. He is 
married to Anne KcUog of Weston, Conn, and is 
living in San Francisco. 
BILL FALLON is a Peace Corps volunteer 
serving in Chile. Bill is manager of the Antofagasta 
Office of the Institute for Cooperative Education 
with his office at the U. ol Uie North in An­
tofagasta, Chile. 
BILL RUETER is now teaching at North 
Catholic High School in Philadelphia after being 
professed in the Oblates of St. Francb de Sales this 
fall. 

JEFF NEUBERT is working as a product 
anal)-st with General Foods in White Plains, N.Y. 
He graduated last June from Babson Institute with 
an MB.-V in finance. Last September he was mar­
ried to Tink O'Connor, queen of our Senior Ball. 
Their address is 15 Lake St., Apt 4 J, White 
Plains, N.Y. 
DAVE MAXION is in his second year at 
George Washington Law School. Last summer 
he was married to Noel Giblon (St. Mary's *64). 
She is teaching school in Rocksvillc, Md. where 
George Washington U. is located. 
RICK D.-\MM is an ensign in the Navy and 
IS stationed on the USS Galveston which is 
cruising off the coast of Vict Nam. 
DICK D*A.MICO was married to Sue Casey (St. Mary's '65} in November. They are living in Chicago where Dick is completing work on an MBA at Norihwestcm U. 
DAVE TOBIN is in his second year of law school at N.Y.U. JOHN KALL is studying as a graduate assis­tant in the Dept. of Mech. Engr. at Villanova 
U. Following graduation he worked for Grumman iUrcraft for a year before returning to school. LANX"V BONEXBERGER is attending ND Law School after completing his first year at U.C.L.A. 
CHARLES KELL is a 1st lieutenant with the Army serving in tlie Signal Corps. His tour of duty will be completed this summer. 
JACK STANLEY is currently in his second year at Georgetown Law School and wtis elected treasurer of the Student Bar Assoc. Other '&4 grads at Georgetown Law School are BERNIE HESSLEY, MIKE McMANUS, JOHN SIEZER, RALPH LONG. JOE SPERBER, JIM GLXTZ and DENNIS PAQUETTE. Jack was married this fall to Elaine D'.Angclo; his best tnan was JOHN D.\SEREAU, presently with Prudential in Boston, and JACK NOLAN, who is working as a news reporter for the Binghamton N.Y. PresSt was an usher. 
Last fall GEORGE NOVAK was engaged to Mary Manzelb who is a student at tlie U. of Bridgeport in Connecticut. George is on active duty aboard the USS Plymouth Rock on the Atlantic 
Two espcdally newsy letters came from ED KELLEY and PETE CLARK. Ed writes that ADRIA.\ KING and JAY KEXNEY are in their second year of law school at Temple U. in Philadelphia. TI.M TOLLAKSON is studying English at the U. of Dublin in Ireland. PETE AfcINTOSH is in his second year at Wharton School of Finance (U. of Penn.) and was married this fall. JACK STERN and his wife, recently had a baby girl. BRUCE TUTHILL is serving in the Army as a 2nd lieutenant in Milwaukee and will return to Harvard Business School when his tour of duty is completed. BOB AfcDONALD received his iSA in history from ND last June and is engaged to Kathy Ronan (St. Mary's '64). 
£ d is teaching English, and coaching football and track at LaSalle High School in Philly. He is 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
CUSSES 

EIGHT GRADUATES of the University are among the students initiating the nev/ cell biology curriculum in the Multidisciplinary Laboratories at North-western's Medical School. From the Class of '65, from left to right: Philip Haley, Ramon Murphy, Michael Peters, Tom Fuller and Bob Powers. ND grad­uates of the Class of '64, who are now second-year men in the program, on far right side, left to right: Jerry Young, Andy O'Dwyer and Paul West. 
engaged to Joanne Gt^ellini and they plan to be married over the Christmas holidays. 
Pete is working on a PhD in chemical engineer­ing at U.C. (Berkeley) and wTites that he has rtui into scveinl classmates in the S.F. Bay area. JOH.V SMITH is with TWA in S.F.; BARRY CURTIN is attending USF graduate school; illK E KEALEY is in the marketing depart­ment of B.V.D. Corp. in S.F.: ED MACINLA is in the production department of Standard Oil of Calif; and CHRIS COULD is with Stauffer Chemical Co. In addition to I'ete there is a crowd of *&t grads at California: RICH JAS­KUN.\S, JOHN BARCLAY. FRANK PFAFF. DICK HOR.N, BILL McDONALD and J.\Y S.ANTICH. among others. 
S.\M MIRABITO is in the Naxy, stationed on the USS Epping Forest ported in Sasebo, Japan. Most of Sam's time is spent off the coast of \nctn3m. Others ser\'ing in the Vietnam area are: JOHN -MARLOW, USS Windaham County; JOHN McTERNAN. USS Canberra: JI.M LAMP­ING. USS Hansen: EARL ETOWSKI, USS Mer­rick; and LOU VELLO.VI, USS -Morton. Class­mates in more dangerous surroundings arc: Anny Lt. .MIKE DiCARLO, Marine Lt. TERRY O'H.VRA and -Marine Lt. JIM EGAN, all ser\­ing as platoon officers somewhere in South Vietnam. 
BOB DRAGANI is stationed at Fort Lee, Va. as a lieutenant in the Transportation Corps. He Avas married last summer to Ines Frohecn in ^lishawaka. 
KEN STINSON leaves his job as a civil engineer in Santa Clara. Calif, to travel to Newport, R X for Na\T OCS. 
DICK STRANGER was married last summer to Fiances Pothin in Cranston, R.L My apologies for the belated congratulations. 
Other news gathered randomly at x-arious parties is as follows: MARK LABOE and Anne Froning (S.MC '64) were married Aug. 7; DICK WOLS­FELD is studying at Yale and married Sue Shalgos (S.MC '64) Aug. 28; JACK GAINE is in hU second year at Wharton; GENE McGUIRE and ED DUNNE arc at Northwestern Law School; RAY CAVANAUGH is at the U. of Maryland working on a PhD in math; NICK ETTEN and D.ANNY O'BRIEN arc going to law school at Loyoki in Chicago; LARRY KAVANAUGH and his wife, Judy, are living in Houston, Tex. where Larry is in the Space Science Dept. at Rice U ; and LARRY HAGERTY has resumed study at the U. of Houston Latv* School after sailing to Hawaii. 
—W. CL-AY STEVENS, Secretary 

1964 Law THOMAS F. CONNEEIY 556 Elmwood Ave., Evanston, III. 60202 
To all to whom this presence comes, greetings: and, by tlic u-ay, where is all the information you're supposed to be sending to your joUy class scribe? The plea for communications issued in the first column has produced meager response, ergo, write today! By tomorrow* I may have turned the list of silent ones over to the Dean of Students. 
One of two letter; tills column received vezts from FR.\NK MIELE who reports that he is now in pri\-ale practice u-ith another attorney under the linn name of Micle & Nfonica at 470 Prospect Ave., West Orange, N.J. He reports that he is cnio>-ing this new venture immensely. 
Beware ye felons of Berrien County, Michigan, is the word in letter number two from BOB "Afr. Justice" FIXDLAY. Bob reports that HARRY CREAGIIER is an assistant iirosccutor in St. Jo­seph, Alich., and is rapidly bringing law and order to good old Berrien County. Bob, too, is "putting them away" as a member of the District of Colum­bia's prosecuting staff. He suggests that some thought be given to a ClaK reunion at a '66 foot­ball game. If anyone lias any suggestions along this line, send them to mc and I'll act as a clearing­house and information center, 
JOil.X LE.-\HY is now practicing at 111 W. Washington St. in Chicago. He relinquished his hard-earned "Fish of the Year" award to JIGGS JIGANTI at the latter's wedding on Sept. 18 and John presented an appropriate trophy to Jiggs. 
Judy and TONt KERN" and Dorothy and CHARLIE SACHER were among the cheering throng at the So. Cal. game. Tom is witli the In­diana Attorney General's ofHce and Charlie is an instructor at the Anny Finance School at Ft. Ben Harrison. 
Add one! Judy and STEVE MORSE happUy announce the birth of Mar>- Pat, Oct. H. 
Short notes: J.\CK KOPKO is practicing in Gar^-, Ind., aiid BERXIE KATZ has an office in Elkhart to which he is a daily commuter from South Bend. Does anyone have any word on JIM CARROLL? BOB CASH is practicing in Cindn­ii'iti and reports that he likes his work very much. Always glad to find a satisfied customer. BOB FROST and BALFE WAGNER are both in the Anny JAG. Bob is scrying at Ft. Leonard Wood and Balfe is in Korea. 
Are you there, PAUL POLL^VRD? Haven't heard a word about you or from you. At last ^vord MIKE RYAN was %vitli the NLRB in ^Vashington. Let's hear from you, too, Mike, 
If your Ford rattles, bhiiiic it on HURLEY SMITH. It's reported that he's secreting guitar picks in the body panels. Reviving the SMITH­HACKETT duo is a must if w*e can work out a football game reunion next season. 
Jot a few" lines to your volunteer scribe today. Give this boy something to write about, and do it before the April 1 deadline. Happy New Year! 
THOALAS F. CONNEELY, Secretary 

1965 
JAMES P. HARNISCH 71 Poland Manor, Poland, Ohio 44514 
The Michigan State weekend served as an impromptu reunion for many of the Class. The cynosure of activity for both nights seemed to be Sweeney's. Unfortunately such spontaneous and large Class gatherings are few and far spaced. Thus thb columa should function a5 a continuum for news of our classmates. It can only do so if you vriU cooperate by forwarding any information on your employment, military or marital status, de* grecs earned, honors received, etc. to either your area representative or to me. 
BILL McGUIRE is in the U . of ICchigan's program oE hospital administration. Bill has com­piled a list of '63 graduates pursuing advanced studies at Michigan U. In Medical School are JIM FOSTER and TOM HICKS. STEVE PEPE is in Law School. In mechanical engineering are PAT ZILVmS, PAUL DRUCKER and TO.M KENNETT. PAUL RAY, ED ORSINI, CHUCK BROWN, DICK DUFOUR, KARL KING. MIKE LONG, RON CAULEY, JIM STOLZE and LARRY O'CONNOR are in business administra­tion. 
RUBEN CARRIEDO (La Vaz, BoKvIa), LAWRENCE SCHMITZ (Goiana, Brazil) and NICK VITALICH (Chile) arc engaged in Peace Corps work in Latin America. 
MIKE WILSEY is studying Spanish Culture at the U. of Chile in Santiago. Afike is a recipient of a Fulbright Scholarship. 
WALTER S.AHM is with the Indiana BeU Telephone Co. in Indianapolis. BOB GAENSSLEN has been busy working for his PhD in biochemistry at Cornell U. in Ithaca, N.Y. 
TOM MITTELHAUSER wns manicd to the former Judith DriscoU. The I^ttshurgh papers with pictures documented Tom forsaldng hts bride during the reception to listen to the Irish-Michigan State game. 
MILITARY SERVICE NOTES Second Lieutenant BILL RYAN asmts in the training of new Army recruits at Fort Bliss in £1 Paso, Tex. while Second Lieutenant RAY SIEG­FRIED is attached to the 1st Infantry Brigade, 7th Infantrj- Div. in Korea. Ens. PAUL JOCK is stationed at the USN Submarine Base in Groton, Conn. RICH.\RD LEONTIARDT is cruising the Atlantic on the destroyer, USS Fred 
T. Berry. Second Lieutenant RICH.ARD Mc-MAXUS has been stationed at the Fitzsimons Army Hospital in Denver, Colo. 
—JIM H.ARMSCH, Secretary 

1965 Law 
JOHN A. HAUTER 18441 Cowing Courf-, Homewood, III. 60430 
The Law Building has undergone some changes: new fixtures in library; individualized study areas; and soft upholstered chairs. Guess we graduated too soon. 
News from the gang: The BISHEs arc now serving In Army "JAG" at Fort Kfeade, Md., along ^vith the KENNEDYS. The BOITELs are now the proud parents of a girl, Christina; the LEONARDS, a boy, Mike; the KRUPNICKs, a boy, Mike; and the HAXTTERs, a boy, Bradley. 
The FARRARS were in the midst of Huixlcane Betsy and sur\ived the ordeal of being without powtr for three days. Nothing bothered them so much as being without their air conditioning! 
News has it that JON KRUPNICK is calling his law friends 'round the country — using his privi­leges at the phone company. ART HOOVER is no longer the Casano\-a; he and Sue were married in September and honeymooning in Canada. Rumor has it that HUGH CUNNIFFE Is in Germany now (?). 
The RIEBENACKs have passed both Indiana and Florida bars; MIKE FARRAR, Connecticut; ART HOOVER, New Hampshire; HANK BOITEL, New York; "SULLY," TOM O'CON­NER, DOUG SPECIA, DON O'SHEA and I, Illinois. 
That's aB &e news reported to us so £ar. If you want to hear about the rest of the Class c>r see your OMm name in print, let's get on the ball and fill us in on all your shenanigans. Hope you all had a happy and holy Christmas season. 
—JOHN A. HAUTER. Secretary 

ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
Practice Court: Professor Edward F. Barrett, who observed his 25th yesir as a teacher this year (cind his 17th at Notre Dame), shepherded 14 third-year teams of counsel through full dress jury tricds this past semester. 

The practice court, which now uses three courtrooms in South Bend and involves the services of seven judges, has expamded to include the student body of St. Mary's College, the first-year class at the Law School, students from several high schools, the medical staffs of both South Bend hospitals, the South Bend PoUce Department, several service clubs in the area and many volunteer members of the University faculty. 
Professor Barrett prepares the testimony and exhibits for each trial, secures witnesses and jurors, acts as special judge for motions smd voir dire sessions, and conducts a two-hour course in trial tactics for stu­dents in the program. 
Photographers for the ALUMNUS visited one of two jury cases which were heard on December 4, 1965. The plEtintiff was James Murphy, 9, son of Professor Edward J. Murphy of the Law Faculty, who claimed damages for injuries sustained when he was hit by a car driven by Miss Terese Morton of St. Mary's College. His "next friend" in the suit, his fictional widowed mother, weis Mrs. 
Edward Kalamaros. (Her real hus­band, very much alive, '59L, is chief deputy prosecutor for St. Joseph County.) The case involved medical testimony from two physicians. Dr. WiUiam Starke of Michigan City, Ind., and Dr. Charles Greenwood of Memorial Hospital, South Bend, and psychological testimony from Mr. Frank Stancato, a graduate stu­dent in the University's Department of Education. 
Young Master Murphy, repre­sented by Joseph P. Delia Maria, Jr. and Michael Schimberg, was cor­roborated by another child witness, Francis Shsifer, son of your colum­nist. Miss Morton was represented by Michael Roche and Martin Conway. Judge George N. Beamer, United States District Court for the North­ern District of Indiana, Hammond Division, heard the case. 
Jurors, drawn from the St. Mary's College student body and the first-year dass at the Law School, were unable to agree on a verdict. It was the first "hung jury" this year, the 13th term of the Superior Coiut of Marion County, State of Hoynes. 
Symposium: The annual spring sjrm­posium will be presented this year on April 16. Assistant Dean Thomais F. Broden Jr. is in charge of planning the program which will be devoted to "Poverty and Justice." The topic. Deem Broden reports, will be related to the legal services progrsmi of the Ofiice of Economic Opportunity for which he is a consultant. 
Seminars: Six elective semincirs will 
be presented to members of the 
third-year class in the second semes­
ter of this academic year. 
Professor G. Robert Blakey wUl 

offer a semincu: in criminal discovery, 
a project which is related to the 
early stages of a book he is writing 
on organized crime. 
Assistant Dean Broden and Ad­

junct Professor Conrad L. Kellen-
berg will offer a learn-by-doing sem­
inar on law and the poor. Students 
In this seminar will work with per­
sons who resort to the South Bend 
Neighborhood Legal Office for assis­
tance. Students also will work on 
background research in areas of law 
which touch the lives of the poor. 
Professor Robert E. Rodes Jr. will offer participation in his legislative drafting service as a seminar. The service, which now involves several second-year students, drafts statutes for legislators and service organiza­tions. 
Professor Bernard J. Ward again will offer a seminar in problems of appellate procedure, a subject related to Prof. Ward's service as reporter for the Advisory Committee on Ap­pellate Rules of the Judicial Con­ference of the United States. 
Your columnist will offer a sem­inar in trust administration, en­compassing problems of trustee powers, guardianship an d per­petuities. 
Noire Dame Lawyer: Two regular issues of The Lawyer have reached the mail room on schedule at this writing. The review's November and December issues are the first two numbers of this year's six-issue vol-
ROCHE, MURPHY, 
ALUMNUS JANUARY \9U FEBRUARY 

ume. The February publication will Pope Paul VI's advisory commission Alumni Notes: The Law School has be devoted exclusively to antitrust on contraception, was widely quoted a brief report on several Alumni now problems, including all addresses de­in the press in November as a result at work in California and Nevada: livered at the Law and Business Con­of his participation in a press con­James Slater '64L, James Talaga ference on the Robinson-Patman Act ference on the Vatican Council's '61L and Norman Matteoni '63L 
held on campus last September. 
bMI SClHi 
The Lawyer's annual alumni meet­ing, held in October, concluded with the appointment of Joseph Joyce '56L, Edward Adams '63L and the reappointment of James Corcoran 'o6L to the organization's planning committee for the 1966 annual meet­ing. 
Faculty: Members of the faculty were guests of the University's senior class for a cocktail party in Decem­ber. The meeting was one in a series the class plans for University faculty members. 
Assistant Dean Broden addressed the Salt Lake County Bar Associa­tion and the Oklahoma Bar Associa­tion on "The Economic Opportunity Act and Legal Ser\'ices to the In­digent." He also attended a Legal Services Program sponsored by the OflBce of Economic Opportunity, in Washington, D. C. 
Rev. William M. Lewers CSC ad­dressed members of the Catholic Forum in South Bend on the opera­tion of the War on Poverty in Missis­sippi. Father Lewers worked as a legal advisor in that state last summer. 
Professor John T. Noonan Jr. who serves as historical consultant to 
\ > • 
'^•,'$'''^-v 
JX^ 

schema on "The Church in the Mod­em World." Prof. Noonan said the Council's statement was an adoption of the theology which recognizes that the fostering of interpersonal love is as much a function of sex in mar­riage as the procreation of children is. He said he thought this theolog­ical statement lays the groundwork for a change in the Church's posi­tion on birth control, and that it signals "less paternalism" in ques­tions of marital morality and more reliance on the personal judgment of the spouses. Prof. Noonan called the Council's statement "the completion of another major theological develop­ment of the 20th century." 
Prof. Harris Wofford, on leave from the Law School faculty to serve as deputy director for planning of the Peace Corps, visited here in November and addressed the mem­bers of Gray's Inn. 
Prof. Ward wiU spend the summer as visiting professor at the U. of Texas School of Law. 
Professor Roger Paul Peters par­ticipated in a seminar on "Pornog­raphy and Law" in the Law Audi­torium, Dec. 9. He was joined by Rev. Joseph A. Schneiders, minister of the First Unitarian Church, South Bend; Ralph Blume '56, '57L, Fort Wayne; Ross Peterson of the third-year class; and your columnist. The seminar was sponsored by the Aca­demic Commission of Student Gov­ernment, and by the South Bend Chapter, Indiana Civil Liberties Union. 
Your columnist has been appointed to the Pre-Law Education Committee of the Indiana State Bar Association. 
''^^^''^s^^fc* *. ,"Nil e^^ 
are all in practice in Santa Barbara County. Messi^. Slater and Matteoni are attorneys in the office of the Santa Barbara Coimty District At­torney; Mr. Talaga is in private practice and acts as county attorney. 
Robert Saxe '63L, a member of the Csilifomia Bar, is now serving in the Marine Corps. John Martin '64L is an attorney in the legal department of Kaiser Corporation, Oakland. John Hofifer '61L is a trust officer for a bank in Los Angeles; he was in the trust field and in private practice in South Bend and Mishawaka before he moved west. Robert Berry '63L is Em assistant district attorney and in private practice in Reno. 
Camille F. Gravel Jr. '35 of Alex­andria, La., a member of the Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Law Association, annoimced that he will probably enter the Democratic pri­mary for United States Senator from Louisiana. He will oppose Sen­ator Allen J. Ellender. Mr. Gravel was Democratic national committee­man from Louisicma from 1954 to 1960. 
Michael A. Rose '61L is in private practice in Rochester, N.Y. He and his wife have two children. He re­ports that solo practice in Rochester is "like being a family lawyer." 
James C. Daner '42L has been elected a commissioner of the State Bar of Michigan. The Board of Com­missioners governs Michigan's inte­grated bar. Mr. Daner is a rodent of Mount Clemens, Mich, and the senior partner in a law firm there. 
by THOMAS L SHAFFER 

DELU AAARIA, SCHIMBERG, MORTON, CONWAY, BEAMER and STANCATO. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY ^966 FEBRUARY 
FOOTBALL 1965 
6 Strictly Madison Avenue 
i 
48 California 21 Purdue 25 "Let's first do away with those 38 Northwestern 7 two losses and the tie," began 17 Army 0 toastmaster Jim Armstrong. "Now 28 Southern California 7 that loss at Purdue was strictly 29 Navy 3 Madison Avenue. You know, that 69 Pittsburgh 13 Griese Kid Stuff winning despite 17 North Carolina 0 our 60-second workout. And the 3 Michigan State" 12 Michigan State defeat was a case 0 Miami 0 of Emily Post. Father Hesburgh wrote that letter to the students about being nice to Michigan State and the players are also students and read it too. "The Miami tie? That was part of the series of nationwide power failures." 
Thus, with seven victories left to , 1 celebrate, the 46th annual football 
BASKETBALL J 
• 1 banquet got under way sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of St. 
75 Lewris College 69 71 DePauI 97 
Joseph Valley. Before the evening 
79 Wisconsin 97 86 Loyola 96 I 
drew to a close a captain for the 
110 St. Norbert 77 Jan. 28 Illinois at Chicago 
1966 Fighting Irish was named and 
69 Michigan State 93 Jan. 31 at Butler 
awards were presented for out­
85 Bowling Green 77 Feb. 5 Georgia Tech 
standing individual performances. 
89 Boston College 93 Feb. 9 Butler 58 Indiana 80 Feb. 12 at Detroit 69 Kentucky 103 Feb. 15 St. John's 73 Duke 95 Feb. 17 at N.Y.U. 92 Purdue 109 Feb. 19 Bradley at Chicago 
57 Air Force 68 Feb. 23 DePaul 59 Creighton 72 Feb. 28* at Western Michigan 84 Detroit 97 Mar. 2 Creighton 
smrls 
FENCING 
WRESTLING 

19 Indiana Tech 8 20 U. of Illinois (Chicago] 7 24 Valparaiso 11 Phil Sheridan relinquished the 24 Indiana 3 27 Western Michigan 5 traditional captain's shillelagh and 
16 Illinois University of Chicago 17 laid it in the hands of junior line­Jan. 29 'NYU, Air Force and Wis. backer Jim Lynch of Lima, Ohio Feb. 5 Iowa and Indiana Feb. 3 at Wabash College who'll lead the team in '66. Lynch, Feb. 12 Detroit and Chicago Feb. 8 at Purdue who called defensive signals in '65, Feb. 19 Mich. State and Ohio Feb. 11 Miami of Ohio hauled down ND opponents for 108 . . State at E. Lansing Feb. 12 Cincinnati tackles from his corner linebacker Feb. 26 III. and Wis. at Champaign Feb. 18 Wheaton Tournament' position. He has been a first-string Mar. 4 at Cleve. State and Feb. 26 at Ball State player since the first game of his 
Oberlin Mar. 4 at Marquette sophomore year. Mar. 5 at Buffalo and Syracuse Mar. 5 at Wheaton Another vote of the team's mono­Mar. 12 Case and Wayne State Mar. 11 Four-I Tournament gram winners gave dual awards for Mar. 25 NCAA Fencing Champ. Mar. 24 NCAA Tournament-most valuable player to senior safetyman Nick Rassas of Chicago and senior taclde-guard, Dick Ar­rington of Erie, Pa. 
SWIMMING 

The National Monogram Club also included Rassas and Arrington 
ND Relays ND 2nd 
among its award winners: Rassas 
58 Varsity-Frosh 42 FOOTBALL 1966 
received the Club's award as top 59 Kent State 35 defensive back, while Arrington 
33. Bowling Green 62 Sept. 24 Purdue was named top offensive lineman. 
Jan. 21 Miami of Ohio Oct: 1 at Northwestern 
Halfback Bill Wolski of Muskegon, Jan. 28 at Western Ontario Oct. 8 Army Mich, was top offensive back and Jan. 29 at Wayne State and III. Oct. 15 North Carolina Pete Duranko, a Johnstown, Pa. Feb. 3 New Mexico Oct. 22 at Oklahoma native, was selected as top defensive 
Feb. 5 at Western Michigan Oct. 29 Navy at Philadelphia lineman. 
Feb. 12 Ball State Nov. 5 Pittsburgh 
Congressman John Tunney of 
Feb. 19 at Purdue Nov. 12 Duke 
California, son of the former heavy­
Nov. 19 at Michigan State 
Feb. 25 Northwestern weight boxing champion Gene Tun-
Mar. 4 Ohio U. Nov. 26 at Southern California 
ney, was the main speaker at the affair. 
Head Coach Ara Parseghian, in explaining that the '65 season was the best defensive year since 1947, commented, "Last fall we promised a weU-conditioned, fundamentally sound team that would be dedicated in spirit, but would be more of a possession and position team that would rely on kicking and ball con­trol. 
"This team was e.xactly that — not because that was the way I wanted it or the team wanted it to be. This was the type of game we could play best. 
"And this team made me ex­
tremely proud of them." 
VALDISERRI: 
A Return Engagement 
For a moment it looked like the start of Notre Dame's second co-exchange program, this one with the American Football League over sports publicity directors. 
Charlie Callahan had vacated his familiar post after 20 years in favor of the AFL's Miami Dolphins. His replacement, Roge r Valdiserri, named by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce CSC only hours before Callahan boarded a jet for Mami, also dis­played the AFL brand—the Kansas City Chiefs' variety. 
As the dust cleared, however, any thought of collaboration was dis­missed, for in Valdiserri was seen the return of a familiar face to the intercollegiate sports ranks at Notre Dame. 
The short, balding figure slipping into the professorship of the Breen-Phillips office is no stranger to ND alumni. After his graduation from ND in 1954 Valdiserri was ap­
-
ERIC NORRI Slap shot stilled. 

pointed Coach Terry Brennan's ad­ministrative assistant, an assign­ment he held for five years. In his undergraduate days, he was a stu­dent secretary to the assistant coaches. 
Valdiserri left Notre Dame in 1959 to assume a position with the public relations division of the Stu­debaker Corp. where he stayed until 1961 when he was appointed head of public relations for Mercedes-Benz sales division of Studebaker. 
The spring of 1965 saw Roger's return to the world of football when he accepted the publicity director­ship of the Kansas City team. 
A native of Belle Vernon, Pa., Roger is married to the former Elaine Tintori. Together with their five children, the Valdiserris wiU move to South Bend in early Feb­ruary at which time Roger will assume his new duties. 
 HOCKEY: 
Ice on the Way 
There are indications already that the Athletic and Convocation Center's ice rink will be capably used in 1968, the projected date of the Center's completion. Efforts to­ward this end got under way as early as 1963. 
It began when a group of hockey enthusiasts, struggling for mere club existence but tired of the sandlot conditions they endured on St. Joe Lake, approadied the South Bend Park Board for practice time at one of the city's public rinks. Approval for the team's use of the ice was granted in exchange for rink-guard duty by members of the team. 
Since then, the enterprising group has not only improved the time schedule allotted them by the city fathers, but has converted the com­munity's prize ice rink into a first-rate hockey facility, enabling the team to host many of its opponents on its own ice. With the same drive and enthusiasm, the team this year secured new uniforms from the University's athletic department and gained recognition as a minor sport. 
Improvement also has infiltrated the team's performance. Winless in six outings their first year, the ND icemen returned in '64-'65 to cop four out of 10. 
At the outset of the current sea­son, hopes were high that this year's squad would produce the first win­ning hockey team. There was good reason for thinking that, as the Irish skaters handily whipped their first three opponents. The team then hit a stretch of rough skating, how-
HOCKEY 

9 Lewis College 1 13 Northern Illinois University 2 7 Tazewell Hockey Association 3 5 Denison University 5 3 Erie Lions 5 2 Boston State 16 3 Holy Cross 9 0 Nichols 7 0 University of Toledo 12 4 Northwestern 4 
Jan. 29 at Beloif Jan. 30 at Lewis College Feb. 5 Air Force Academy Feb. 12 at Lake Forest College Feb. 13 at St. Procopius College Feb. 19 University of Toledo 
Feb. 26 at Northwestern 
SHERIDAN, PARSEGHIAN and LYNCH "The type of game we play best." Mar. 4 at Bowling Green 
'47.
ALUMNUS JANUARY ^966 FEBRUARY 

HOCKEY com. 
ever, as they drew a tie and then went on to lose the next five straight. 
But even more crushing was the injury to the team's leading scorer, Erie Norri, who stTcuned an AchUles tendon and has been declared out of action for an indefinite period. 
Norri, a freshman from Virginia, Minn., and winner of this year's out­standing freshman football lineman award, had been averaging two goals a game with a rather devastating slap shot. His performance at one of the defensive posts had more than neutralized opponents' offensive at­tacks. 
Taking up the slack evident with the loss of Norri is senior Paul Bel­liveau, the team's number-two scor­er. In addition to his average output of almost two goals a game, BeUi­veau has one hat trick to his credit. 
Tending the nets for the Iiish is goalie Leo CoUins, last year's most valuable player. A junior from Far­go, N.D., and another football player, Collins early in the season was hold­ing the opponents to 2.75 goals a game, saving, on the average, 36.5 shots per match. 
President of the team is Stan Col­ligan, a senior from Fort Wayne, Ind., while holding down a left-wing spot and third position in team scor­ing is this year's captain, Frank Manning, a junior from Huntington, 
W. Va. 
Hopes are high that varsity status for the hockey team will ac­company the completion of the year-round artificial rink in the Athletic and Convocation Center. When fin­ished, the ice will measiu-e 200' x 85' with additional space available for several thousand spectators. 
PETE HANRATTY High lumper pushing 6'5" 

TRACK: 
The Long Route Best 
A typical Indiana winter with its knee-deep snows has blanketed the Burke Memorial Golf Course these days where not too long ago green-clad harriers dotted the fairways, pacing themselves over the three-mile cross-country stretch. 
Many of the same tracksters are still pacing themselves, but now in the surroundings of the field house as the University's track team pre­pares for the February 5 opening of the indoor track season. 
For Alex Wilson, it is the begin­ning of his 16th yccu- as head coach, but his next to last in the old cinder box now in the demise of its long and illustrious career. There, amid the resounding thumps from the basketball court and through the 
KEITH MANVIllE & 

 HENRY REITZIG 
Flashing spikes over the 120. 
4S 
clouds of dust. Coach Wilson sized 
up the new season. 
"We're about a year away from 
a really great, all-around team," 
claimed Wilson. "Our strongest suit 
this year is in the distance, the one-
and two-mile events." 
Before he could continue, the familiar cry to "clear the track" echoed through the field house lin­ing Wilson to trackside where sev­eral of his distance men were toeing the mark. The gun cracked and off groped the one-milers led by Ed Dean, senior captain and holder of the Notre Dame mile record with a 
4:03.6 mark. Rounding out the group were Larry Dirnberger and sophomore Ken Howard, members also of this year's cross-country teEun. 
"We'll do well wt h that bunch," assured Wilson. "And with Mike Coflfey, captain of the cross-country team. Bill Leahy, Des Lowler and John Wholey running the two-mile, we may have a decent season." 
The more the coach walked and talked, the brighter the season's prospects grew. He began to like the chances of his quarter- and half-milers. In the former, Wilson wiU be counting on Bob Timm, Mike Burgener and Dennis Withers. And m the latter, Keith Small, Pete Far­rell. Chuck Vehorn and Harold Spiro will be carrying the hopes of the Irish. 
The sprints are unknown quanti­ties. In the 60-yard dash are sopho­mores Ed Donovan and Mike Trom­betta while the hurdles will be in the care of senior Keith Manville, juniors Al Widdifield and Tom Rink, and sophomores Harry Reitzug and Brian Kenny. 
In the field events, which Wilson considers "reasonably good," the Irish will be counting on BiU Peper and Tim Butler in the pole vault; Lou Foumier in the shot put; Pete Mahoney, Brian Cantwell, Mike Chaput and Ron Kurtz in the broad jump; and Pete Hanratty and Mike Chaput in the high jump. 
What causes such excitement over next year's squad? 
"A group of freshmen," admits TOIson, "that already competes fa­vorably with the varsity. They indude Bill Hurd from Memphis, whose best time in the 100-yard deish is 9.3, Then we have a Nor­wegian by the name of Ole Skjirstein who goes the same distance in 9.7. We're also quite high on two dis­tance men, Dave Saykally and John Wehrheim. In the high jump, there is Ed Broderick who goes 6'6", while in the half-mile we have Joe 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
Quigley from New York City who has been clocked at 1:54." 
Yes, on any of the wintry Indiana days this year and next, one is still likely to find much action in the old iron-side field house. And the chances are even better that amid all the excitement, dust and thumps, there'll be found Alex Wilson and his green-clad tracksters. 
CROSS-COUNTRY (Won 3, Lost 0) 
15 Indiana 50 ND InvifoHonal — NDlst 17 Michigan State 43 Indiana State Meet — ND Isf 25 Chicago Track Club 34 CCC — 7th with second team IC4A — 2nd NCAA — 9th 
INDOOR TRACK 
Feb. 5 Purdue and Ind. at Bloom. Feb. 12 Michigan State Relays Feb. 18 at Michigan Feb. 26 CCC at Notre Dame Mar. 5 IC4A at New York Mar. 11 NCAA at Detroit Mar. 19 Cleveland K. of C. Relays 
OUTDOOR TRACK 
Apr. 8 at Kentucky Relays Apr. 23 Army at Notre Dame Apr. 29 at Drake Relays May 7 State Meet at Bloomingfon May 14 at Michigan State May 21 Pitt at Notre Dame Jun. 4 CCC at Notre Dame Jun. 16 NCAA at Chicago 
CAPTAIN DEAN and WILSON 16th start for Alex. 
ALUMNUS JANUARY 1966 FEBRUARY 
BASKETBAU 
Through the Years 

In this 20th anniversary year of the National Basketball Association, it's difficult enough to look back to 1946 when it aR started and recall the total contributions ot Notre Dame players to the growth of this major league of professional basketball over the years. But, it is even more difHcult to look back to the happy days of the early thirties and reminisce about those days on the Irish hardwood. 
I was a skinny, somewhat scared WALTER KENNEDY '34 kid of 18 when I got my green jersey President, NBA (from Mac, who else?) to report for the first tryout practice of the ND frosh in the fall of 1930. Too small to play footbaU, I always had the ambition to play basket­ball for ND and this was my chance to show my stuff. Clarence Donovan classy aU-Westem guard of the three prior years, was in charge of the frosh. There was a mob scene on the court that first day, largest turnout for a frosh team in Irish history. It took until Christmas to make the final cut. I got cut the first day, along with about 50 others, who were kindly told by Donovan that they should go out for interhall basketball. 
The first real basketball player I knew was Moose Krause, who sat ne.xt to me for almost four yesirs and helped to enrich my college life, not necessarily the academic side of it. 
Since then, I have seen aU of the great ones in action, both college and professional. And Notre Dame players and ex-players have played prominent roles. 
Former Irish court standouts have been leaders in the growth of the National Basketball Association. Back in the early days, ex-Notre Damer Bob Faught played with Cleveland; Johnnie Niemera and Leo Klier with Fort Wayne; and Fran Currcin with Rochester. 
Later there were Paul Gordon with Baltimore, Leo Bamhorst with Chicago, and Billy Hassett with Minneapolis. Still later, there was George Sobek with Sheboygan. 
In the early fifties, Kevin O'Shea, one of the NBA's brightest stars, began his professional career with Minneapolis, and a few years later Dick "Banker" Rosenthal was an outstanding NBA star with Fort Wajoie, as was Jack Stephens with St Louis. 
KLIER BARNHORST O'SHEA HAWKINS 
At the present time Notre Dame is well represented in the NBA by veteran Tom Hawkins of the Cincinnati Royals, who is one of the outstanding rebounders in professional basketball, and by rookie Ron Reed, one of Johnny Dee's stars last season, who is now with the Detroit Pistons. 
Now that I am in my third year as commissioner of the NBA, remembering back to that disappointing late afternoon when Clarence Donovan told me in effect, "you don't have it," I now get a vicarious thrUl out of identifying with Hawkins and Reed in the same manner I used to identify with the other ex-Notre Dame greats who played in the NBA over the years. 
4? 
Noire Dame ALUMNUS Notre Dome, Ind. 46556 
Return Requested 

Dear Fellow Alumnus-
Thanks for the privilege,' 
of finding again a joyous shelter under the rhantle of Our Lady, 
of serving on the Alumni Board with a special 
group of Notre Dame men, 

of renewing acquaintances with ihe men of 
Holy Cross, 

of enjoying the genuine friendship between these men of the Cloth and their old students, 
of receiving eloquent instructions from Father Hesburgh on the where and why of Nofre Dame's destiny, 
of appreciating the vital lifetime contributions of ihe laymen of Notre Dame, 
of getting to know Jim Armstrong better, 
of laboring for the love of Notre Dame at the Winter, Summer and Fall Meetings, 
of ihe sense of sharing in the course of evenfs, 
of "coming in" and "going ouf" wifh tfiree greaf ones, "faon vivanf" Paul Fenlon, "Judge" George Bariscillo, and "Goldfarb prosecutor" Mart Goodman, 
of ihe midnight raid on Rose/and Ice Cream Parlors with Gibbons, Faccenda, Hunter, Carey, Dudley, et a/., 
of reliving the nervous enthusiasm when Ara's 
lads trot into the stadium, 

of bubbling good cfjeer when ihe Monogram Club entertains the Alumni at the Summer Re­union, 
of visits to the Grotto, in blossom in spring, in glowing colors in autumn, and in ihe purest white of winter, 
and, 

for the honor of serving as President, 
Sincerely, 
Lancaster Smith, '50 
President 
i; 








