The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
Vol. 34 No. 4 
AUGUST 1956 
James E. Armstrong, '25 Editor 
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37 

ALUMNUS 
Managing Editor 

Two hundred members of the 1931 Class returned for their Silver Jubilee Anniversary on Reunion Weekend. 
The Baccalaureate Mass for this year's graduates was held in the Stadium. 

Celebrating their 30;h anniversary, the Class of 1906 assembled at th; Morris Inn for a buffet dinner on Friday night. Comprising the F largest returning Golden Jubilee class in recent years the group is as follows: first row (left to right) William Jamieson, Chicago, 111.; Steve Riordan, Chicago, 111.; James A. Dubbs, Cleveland, O.; \\'illiam P. Fceley, Chicago, III.; Thomas A. E. Lally, Spokane, Wash.j« | and Frank A. McCarthy, Elgin, III. Back row (left to right) Frank J. Shaughnessy, Montreal, Canada; John F. Shea, Holyoke, Mass.; \ Dan O'Connor, Chicago, 111.; Frank H. Vogel, Columbus, O.; J. Bell Moran, Beverly Hills, Calif.; Leonard F. Smith. El Segundo, 
Calif.: and Col. Earle P. Dovle, Washington, D. C. 
800 N.D. Alumni Attend Class Reunion Program 
-•Approximately 800 alumni were "checked in" at the general registra­tion desk dining class reunion week­end on June 8, 9 and 10. 1906, cele­brating their 50th year of graduation, was the hrgesl Golden Jubilee group thai has relumed to the campus in receni years. They met for a buffet din­ner in the Morris Inn on Friday night and then joined in the general pro­gram during the remaining part of the weekend. Celebrating their Silver Ju­bilee, the men of 1931 were headquar­tered in Lyons Hall and had a turnout of approxitnately 200. Some of the special features on their class weekend program included a dinner on Friday night which was highlighted by a door prize drawing of about 50 gifts con­tributed by class members and a liinch­
2 Notre Dame Alumnus, Aunun. 1950 
eon on Saturday at which they were guests of Father Hesburgh in the Din­ing Hail. Other 5-year classes back for reunion included 1911. 1916. 1921, 1926, 1936, 1941, 1946 and 1951. 
The Notre Dame national Mono­gram Club held their annual election meeting on Saturday in the Morris Inn Golfers Lounge (story in sports section of this issue). The engineering alumni met in the Engineering Audi­torium while the Law Alumni Asso­ciation Iield their usual board of di­rectors meeting in the Law Building. An innovation of tlie v.x-ekend was the band alumni get-together in AVasliing­ton Hall which is a forerunner to the establishing of a permanent organiza­tion of the band alumni group. Old grads of the College of Commerce as­sembled there to greet the new dean. 

Dr. James Cullilon. Professor Robert Er\'in gave a special lecture with slides and a motion picture on the work be-f ing done in Lobund Institute. The I O'Shaughnessy Hall Galleiy was th"j : scene of a fine arts exhibit. i 
Alumni attended Memorial Masses f. on Satiu-day morning for deceased | members of the various classes. Father |.] Hesburgh and Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., | Midland, Texas, president of the Notre | Dame Alimini Association, were the | featured speakers at the alumni ban*-i quel on Saturday night. The banquet also included the presentation of golf awards by Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., to alumni who had participated ; in the weekend tournament. On the | program were the introductions of class f groups and the award of a Gilbert'^ Campus Shop hat to Ed Figel. Chicago, of the 1911 Class. 
Reunion festivities were brought to a close on Simday morning when an overflow crowd attended a Low Mass celebrated in Sacred Heart Church and listened to a sennon preached bv the Rev. Joseph Banx, C.S.C. ' [ 
t5f 

geles in charge of the metropolitan or­ganizations: Louis Lujan, Albu­
Club Presidents Meet Here 
querque, N. M., moderator for the geo­
gi-aphical area clubs: and Jim Arm­strong, director of discussion for the 

For 2-Day Workshop Session 
centralized community clubs. 
The biennial Presidents Coimcil was 

%lttended by representatives from 68 local alumni clubs in all sections of the United States. Held at Notre Dame on June 6-7-8, the agenda was con­cerned with vaiious aspects of the na­tionwide club program as well as the relation between various Univereity dc­uartments and ahmmi groups. 
"• The presidents assembled for an in­formal dinner on Wednesday evening in the Morris Inn, followed by a show­ing of the new Lobund Institute film and the Football Highlights of 1955. Professor Robert Eivin of the Lobund stafl' conducted a question and answer jjcriod rcgaixiing research being con­
•llucted in the Laboratories of Bac­teriology. Joseph I. O'Neill, Midland, Te.xas, national president of the Notre Dame .\lumni Association, and Robert Gore, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, association vice-president, opened the session on Thursday morning with appropriate .•emarks. James E. Armstrong outlined The puiposes for a Notre Dame alumni club while Patrick J. Fisher, member of the Alunmi Board of Directors, talked on the program for Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday scheduled for December 9. 1956. 
Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C, spoke on the University's Placement Office #iind enlightened the audience with va­
rious facts and figtues concerning the recent suivey made of alumni place­ment possibilities. 
The highlight of the day's program featiux-d Rev. Theodore M. Hesbiugh, C.S.C, who gave an inspiring and in­fonnative talk to the presidents on the Univei'sity's present and future pro­gram at a noon luncheon. Director of Athletics Edward W. Krause summar­ized vareity sports activities for the year and answered questions about fu­ture football game commitments. 
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C, di­rector of the Foundation program, gave a brief formal presentation of fimd raising activities at the Univer­sity which was followed by a question and answer period on Foundation top­ics. .\lumni Board member James Ferstel, and club vice-president Francis Milligan, both of Chicago, 111., partici­pated on the panel of "Undergraduate Relations." Milligan rendered an out­standing report on the Chicago Club's Prep School Relations Committee. 
.'\ group of club presidents includ­ing Ralph Else of Buffalo, Jake Reich­enstein of Dallas, Russ Farrell of Kan­sas City, and Don O'Brien of Houston, formed an impromptu panel on the discussion of women's auxiliaries. Sec­tional meetings for clubs with specific problems were held on Thiu"sday after­noon with Gcoi-ge Meeker of Los An­
Following dinner, a publicity and public relations panel was held in the Morris Inn featuring J. Arthur Haley, director of public relations, Charles Callahan, sports publicity director, and James E. Murphy, director of public infonnation, as the principal speakers. 
The Friday morning session was a presentation of club subjects by various presidents, moderated by John Cackley. Participants and their topics were as follows: Club Dues, Dr. Matthew Sul­livan, \Vashington, D. C , and May­nard Bissonnette, Kankakee Valley, 111.: Including Parents, George Meek­er, Los .'\ngeles, and Charles Cushwa, Youngstown: Man-of-the-Year Awards, Robert Sibilsky, Flint, and J. Patrick Canny. Cleveland; Past Presidents, Emmett \Vright, Chicago, and Russ Farrell, Kansas City: Discussion Groups and Lecture Series, Emmett Wright and Jim Armstrong; Incorpor­ating the Club, John Connelly, Twin Cities (St. Paul-Minneapolis); the .ALUMNUS Magazine Procedures, John Cackley; Club Scholarships, Jake Reichenstein, Dallas; Don Doheny, St. Louis, and Pat Fisher, Indianapolis; the Rockne .Anniversar)', AVilliam Gib­bons, St. Joseph Valley, and Pat Can­ny, Cleveland. 
Highlight club events which were described to those in attendance at the Friday morning session included: Lae­
(Continued on page 13) 

Presidents and other representatives from 68 local alumni clubs attended the Presidents Council held at Notre Dame on June 7-8. 
t^'otre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 

Returning for their 3th, 191 members of the 1931 Class 'signed up' at the general registration desk. 
/?, euiiMn 

Weekend '' 

Strains of the Victory March echoed 'on the mall' as the 'massed bands'(??) of alumni and high school importecs marched with 'Sl'ers to the Alumni Banquet on Reunion Week­end. Class Secretary Jim Doyle led the Silver Jubilee group. 
The 1936 class, back for their 20th, celebrated with a buffet supper on Friday night at the Rockne Memorial. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 

The Class of '41 had a great weekend and a fine turnout. Dillon Hall was their headquarters during Reunion festivities.' 
Ed Figel, '11, of Chicago, III., won the Gilbert's Campus Shop door prize at the Alumni Banquet on Reimion Weekend. Hilton Cramps, store manager, makes the presentation of a Dobbs hat to Mr. Figel while Toastmaster Jim Armstrong beams approval. 
The Class of '26 elected John Ryan president, succeeding Ray Durst, for the ensuing five years. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 S 

the senioi-s presented to the University on Washington's Birthday. Tradition-^ 
Degrees Awarded Graduates 
ally, the flag is blessed and flown for 
the first time on graduation day and 
then throughout the following year. 

At 111th Commencement 
Admiral Arleigh A. Burke, chief of naval operations, delivered the com­mencement address and the Most Rev. Thomas K. Gorman, Bishop of Dallas-Fort Worth, preached the baccalau­reate sermon at the Universitj' of Notre Dame's 111th annual commencement on June 3rd. Approximately 1,122 graduate, professional and undergrad­uate d^rees were conferred by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., at ex­ercises in the Stadium. 
, Give Honorary Degrees Honorary degrees were awarded to the two speakers as well as to Secre­tar)' of tlie Treasury George M. Humphrey, Washington, D. C ; Frank 
M. Folsom, president of the Radio Corporation of America, New York City; Dr. Marston Morse, a noted mathematician at the Institute for Ad­vanced Study, Princeton, N. J.; Wil­liam K. \Varren, chairman of the board, Warren Petroleum Corp., Tulsa, Okla.; Dr. Philip E. Mosely, professor of international relations at Columbia University's Russian Institute, New York City; ^Valter Duncan, '12, La-Salle, 111., oil executive; and John A. Coleman, of Adler, Coleman and Co., New York brokerage firm. 
Duncan is an alumni member of Notre Dame's Associate Board of Lay Trustees. Folsom, Coleman and War­ren are members of the University's advisor)' councils. Warren's son, Wil­liam Warren, Jr., is president of the 1956 senior class, while Coleman's son, Thomas A., is a member of tlie class. 
A Solemn Pontifical Mass was cele­brated in the Stadium by die Most Rev. Leo A. Pursley, Apostolic Admin­istrator of the Diocese of Fort Wayne, Ind. Following the Mass Father Hes­burgh blessed an American flasr which 
In his address Admiral Burke de­clared that the United States "will never wage a war of aggression." He warned, however, that we will not be^ "pushed around by any tyrant or groups of tyrants that threaten the cause of freedom in this world." 
Adm. Burke Cited Burke was the principal speaker and was cited as "the highest type of mili­tary leader." Secretary of the Treas-^ ury George M. Humphrey was com­mended for his "quiet yet forceful statesmanship" in dealing with the eco­nomic complexities of these times. Admiral Burke asserted that "the strength of our moral principles" in America is even greater than our mili­tary might and industrial resources. He<i described our American concept as^ "brilliant" compared to Corrmiunism "which is presently engaged in repudi­ating its own founders." The World War II naval hero told the Notre 
Honorary degrees were presented by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president (center, front row), to the following distinguished recipients: front row, left to right—Hon. George M. Humphrey, Secretary of the Treasury; Admiral Arleigh A. Burke, USN, Chief, of Naval Operations and the Commencement speaker; Most Rev. Thomas K. Gorman, Bishop of Dallas-Fort Worth, who delivered the" baccalaureate sermon; and Frank M. Folsom, president of the Radio Corporation of America. Also, back row, left to right, are: Dr. Philip E. Mosely, of the Columbia U. faculty; William K. Warren, chairman of the board, Warren Petroleum Corp.; Dr. Marston Morse, of the Institute for Advanced Study; Walter Duncan, oil executive; and John \. Coleman, of Adler, Coleman and Co. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 

Dame graduates "your fitting-out pe­
^rio d has ended. You are headed for an open sea," he said, that is "more chal­lenging, more capricious, and as a con­sequence, more demanding than it has ever been in our nation's history." 
Bishop Gorman, in the baccalaureate sermon, contended "there is probably 
gj) more know-how about our world coupled with less know-what-it-is-all­about than ever before in history." He attributed this to "two voluntaiily self-imposed blind spots in large and grow­ing sections of the learned and scien­tific world." 
^f) Reason and Free Will He said that in their rejection of reason and free will a vast group of the world's scholars and scientists have dis­carded "as working instruments the two human tools that distinguish men from beasts." To reject reason, he said, or "even seriously question its # validity as the sceptics of various stripes do, is to remove moral certi­tude from the whole field of learning and life." Those who deny free will in the area of morality and moral responsibility. Bishop Gorman said, "surrender to tlie blind irresistible forces of nature pushing men on helplessly ^ toward goals they know not or of no ' goals at all." The annual $500 Lay Faculty Award of the Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation was presented at the com­mencement exercises to Professor James Dincolo, head of the accounting de­partment in Notre Dame's College of Commerce. A native of Medford, ^ ' Mass., Dincolo has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1937. 
Most Rev. Thomas K. Gorman, Bishop of Dallas-Fort Worth, preached the baccalau­reate sermon at Notre Dame's lllth an­nual commencement. 
William K. Warren, chairman of the board, Warren Petroleum Corp., Tulsa, Okla., who was an honorary degree recipient, congratulates his son, William K. Jr., president of the Senior Class, after the latter had received a bachelor's degree from Notre Dame's College of Commerce. 
Admiral Arleigh A. Burke, USN, Chief of Naval Operations, delivered the Commencement address at Notre Dame's June graduation exercises. To his right is Rev. Theodore J. AfeUing, C.S.C., Provincial, Indiana Province of the priests of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
.•i4 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Aiigust, I9S6 

youngest members of the faculty. Pro­
MetuA. o^ tlte. . 
fessors Elton E. Richter, L'26, and^r-
Conrad L. Kellenberg, and the mem-' bers of the Notre Dame Law School's 1955 Moot Court team, Edward F. 




Notre Dame Law School 
Membership 
Anyone is eligible for membership in the Notre Dame Law Association who holds a law degree and who at any time was a student at the Uni­versit)' of Notre Dame. It is not necessary' to have attended the Notre Dame Law School. 
The annual dues, including sub­scription to the A'o/rc Dame Lawyer, are $5 during the first five years after graduation, and $10 thereafter. 
Inquiries should be addressed to Mr. Thomas L. Murray, Associates Buildinsf. South Bend. Indiana. 

Board of Directors 
The newly elected directors of the Notre Dame Law Association are: Mr. John M. Crimmins, L'33, Assistant Chief Counsel of Koppers Company, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Circuit Judge Edward H. Fenlon, L'33, of Petoskey, Michigan; and Mr. Raymond \V. Tro'yj L'37, of Lum, Fairiie & Fos­ter, Newark, New Jersey. Mr. Norman 
J. Barr>', L'48, of Rothschild, Hart, Stevens & Barrj', Chicago, was re­elected for a second three-year term. 
Holdover directors are: Roger P. Brennan, '33, of Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis, Cleveland, Oliio; George A. Brautigam, L'30, Dade County Proscr cutor, Miami, Florida; Poyntelle Downing, L'M, of Hayes & Downing, Decatur, Illinois; J. Lee Johnson, III, L'49, President and General Manager, Cicero Smith Lumber Co., Fort AVorth, Texas; James H. Kelleher, of Kelleher & Curran, Kent, AVashington; John J. Locher, Jr., L'36, of Barnes, AVads­worth, Elderkin & Locher, Cedar Rap­ids, Iowa; John J. R)'an, Vice Presi­dent and General Counsel, Republic Aviation Corporation, Farmingdale. New York; William E. Voor, L'25, of Voor, Jackson, Grant & McMichael, South Bend, Indiana. 
The following officers were re­elected: Honorarj' President, Mr. Hugh E. Wall, Jr., L'36, of Coolidge, Wall & Wood, Dayton, Ohio; Presi-, dent, Mr. Norman J. Barry; Vice Pres­ident, Mr. William E. Voor; Secretar)'­Treasurer, Mr. Poj-ntelle Downing. 
8 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
Mr. Thomas L. Murray, L'51, who is associated with the firm of Seebirt, Oare & Deahl, South Bend, Indiana, was elected Executive Secretary, suc­ceeding Mr. F. Gerard Feeney, L'47, of Feeney & Stratigos, South Bend, after tlie latter's resignation from that-office had been regretfully accepted. 
Meetings Planned 
The Association plans a luncheon meeting in Dallas in connection with the annual meeting of the American Bar Association. Arrangements are also under way for a meeting at French Lick, Indiana, in August in connection with the annual meeting of the Indi­ana State Bar Association. On April 6, 1956 a meeting called and presided over by Mr. John J. Locher, Jr., L'36, of Cedar Rapids, was held in connec­tion with the annual meeting of the Iowa State Bar Association. Similar meetings will be held in the future in connection with other state bar meetings. 
Moot Court 
Mr. Justice Harlan, of the Supreme Court of the United States, will pre­side over the court which will hear the final argimient in the annual Moot Court Competition in October. 
AVhile at Notre Dame, Mr. Justice Harlan will address the law students on the trial of law suits. 
For 30 years before being appointed to the bench, Mr. Justice Harlan was an active practicing lawj'er in New York City. His field was litigation, al­most exclusively, but of all types and in all its aspects; and he was recog­nized as one of New York's ablest ad­vocates. 
Chicago Luncheon ' 
Members of the Notre Dame Law Association in the Chicago area held a ver>' successful luncheon meeting at the LaSalle Hotel on Wednesday, May 
9. Mr. M. Priar Curran, L'38, pre­sided. Brief talks were made by Mr. Edwin T. Breen, L'18, Chairman of the Chicago Scholarship Committee; Thomas C. Donovan, L'24, Chairman of the Chicago Placement Committee; Norman J. Barry, L'48, President of the Association, and Dean O'Meara. Honored guests included the oldest and Broderick, Jr., William P. Fagan and 
Ronald P. Mealey, all of whom were 
graduated in June. 
Portraits of Deans tf 
Portraits of all former deans of the Notre Dame Law School are now hanging in the Practice Court. The portrait of Dean Hoynes has been hanging in the Practice Court for some time. Only recently placed there arc the portraits of the others, namelyjj^ Dean Francis J. Vurpillat, Dean Thomas Konop and Dean Clarence E. Manion. 
Lawyers Title Award 
George N. Tompkins of Ypnkcrs, New York, a member of the Class of '56, received the Lawj'ers Title Award, ^ an appropriate certificate and $100 in-5 cash, for excellence in the law of real estate. Sponsor of this award is the . Lawyers Title Insurance Corporation of Richmond, Virginia, which sponsors similar awards in a number of leading American law schools. 
Other awards were presented to the following, all members of the Class of,^ '56: The Ho)Ties Award to Ronald P."^ Mealey of Ridgewood, New Jersey; tiie Farabaugh Prize to Peter H. Lousberg of Moline, Illinois; the Harr>' English Award to James E. Murray of Ban­croft, Iowa; and the Law Week Award to Edward F. Broderick, Jr., of Mor­ristown. New Jersey. 
BULLETIN 
Terence B. Cosgrove, '06, Los 

Angeles, Calif., died on June 21 fol­
lowing a brief illness. Mr. Cosgrove 
was a member of Notre Dame's As­
sociate Board of Lay Trustees, had <# 
served as a special counsel for the 
City of Los Angeles since 1930 and 
was a senior partner in the law firm 
of Cosgrove, Cramer, Diether and 
Rindge. He was considered an au­
thorit)' on corporation and property 
law. 
Mr. Cosgrove received bachelor &" 

and master's degrees from St. Vi­
ators College, an LL.B. from Notre 
Dame in 1906, a master of laws from 
Yale and an honorary doctor of 
laws from Notre Dame in 1938. He 
is survived by several nieces. 
5> 

to meet the world of one or two or four decades ago. 



^juio^uai eo4fm,e*iU ,,:::^z.^ 
It would be just as reasonable—and I fully anticipate the attack—^to resent 
VVill your son come to Notre Dame? From a number of comments dur­
ing the recent Alumni Board meeting, the Council of Local Alumni Club Presidents, and the Reunions, (it was a full week), you might think that the above question was something new, something frighten­ing. 
Jim Armstrong 
Actually, it has al­ways been a reasonable and real ques­tion. Plus others that follow. 
Does your son want to come to Notre Dame? Some don't. Can you afford to send your son to Notre Dame? Some can't. 

• Is your son prepared to come to Notre Dame? Some aren't. 
Under the partial interpretation of the wide publicity given Father Theo­dore Hesburgh's aspirations for Notre Dame, there has been a corresponding rhisinterpretation of Notre Dame's ad­mission policy in the years ahead. 

1} So far as I know—and the Club Presidents and those attending the 1956 Alumni Banquet should bear me out in this—there is little change in policy except the recognition of the same factors that are accompanying the other competitive factors in your life. 
jfc The world is demanding different *wihings for success, in some respects, than it formerly demanded. To suc­ceed in business, in literature, in law, in medicine, and in many other fields of endeavor, it is necessary to be better because channels of communication have improved the perceptive powers of those measuring success. V Therefore it is only logical that your son, to meet the new world, should be prepared for the new standards. And the old questions remain Jiist as applicable. In tliirty years on the campus since graduation, it has been my observation ^that some boys who have come here to please an alutimus father have not been happy, and often not successful because of it. To make your son ^vant to come to Notre Dame is,a job for you, requiring information, participa­tion and inspiration. 
Can you afford to send your son to Notre Dame? The same long period of observation has convinced me that much heroic sacrifice has been put into sending some alunmi sons to Notre Dame. Aside from sentiment, and loy­alty, which are beyond price, I am not sure that much of this sacrifice has been repaid, either in the education derived, or in the institutional ties, often much weaker than those which motivated the sacrifice. 

Is your son prepared to come to Notre Dame? This is the question which does have a bearing in an era of intensive selection, and of rising standards of admission. These condi­tions are not peculiar to Notre Dame. Any boy heading for higher education in the years ahead will have to in­tensify his preparation, whether for Notre Dame or any other private col­lege or university—and State schook are rapidly moving to effect the same standards, to conserve their limited plant and personnel resources. 
Your move in this area is to interest yourself in your son's preparation long before he • files his application for college. 
See that the soimd basic fimdamen­tals of reading, writing and arithmetic of hk elementary school years find more than a glancing impact on hk young mind. 
When he enters high school, see that the boy and the school are aware that he intends to go on to college. You can easily determine that he has a course of studies to match tlie require­ments of Notre Dame, for example, which are not unique. And you should, for the boy's sake and the sake of hk high school, insist on enough work to pass these courses with high enough grades to keep him in the upper sec­tion of hk class. Thk is not the work of a genius that k asked—regular study habits, and a reasonable amount of work \vill attain it, \vith adequate time left for the broadening activities that will bring out the leadership qualities and the spiritual and cultural contri­butions to character that will enter into his college entrance screening. 
You aren't driving a 1920 car. Your wife kn't wearing a 1930 dress. You don't depend for your entertainment on a crystal set or a phonograph. And you don't really and truly expect Notre Dame, or any other college or univer­sity, to turn out the same graduate to meet thk new world that it turned out the improvement of Washington Hall because it has resulted in the assassina­tion (by paint-brush) of three of the greatest men in the hktory of oratory and patriotkm — George Washington, Cicero, and Demosthenes, whose be­nign and inspiring faces have for dec­ades looked down on increasingly in­adequate facilities. 
Your sons will not regret the steps Notre Dame k taking. They would be far more likely to regret their not being taken. 
McCarthy Leaves ND; Will Enter Business 
Dean Emeritus James E. McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, has re­signed to enter private business, effec­tive June 1, according to a recent an­nouncement. Dean McCarthy was head of the College of Commerce for 32 years prior to his succession last fall by Dr. James W. CuUiton. 
McCarthy will establkh hk avnx management consultant ofiice and also be vice-president in charge of educa­tion and public service programs for the Gerity Broadcasting System of Michigan. 
Bom in Holyoke, Mass., he gradu­ated from Columbia University in 1916 and joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1921 as an instructor in foreign trade. McCarthy k a director of the First Bank and Trust Co., and the Associates Investment Co., in South Bend, and the Advertising Council, Inc., of New York City. 
Dean Emeritus McCarthy 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 19S6 

Father Lauck Judges Drawings 
The Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C, of Notre Dame's Fine Arts Department, served as chair­man for the art jury recently in Cincinnati, O., where he judged drawings of the Sacred Heart. These drawings were by artists from every part of the United States, and were entered in a contest sponsored by Xavier University eind the Apostleship of Prayer. The best drawings were placed on exhibition at the Annual Sacred Heart Conference to commemorate the 100th Anni­versary of the Feast and later they wiU be shown in various places around the nation. Other members of the Art Jury appointed to judge the nationally represented collection of drawings were Louis Bouche and Alfred D. Crimi, both renowned American artists, living in the State of New York. 
During the Conference, Father Lauck con­ducted a gallery tour and a discussion of the art works. Notre Dame has already arranged to bring the exhibition to its own galleries at a later date, where the work will receive further study. 

Borden Freshman Prize 
Establishment of an annual Borden Freshman Prize at Notre Dame has been announced by the University's Committee on Scholarships and Prizes. 
An award of $200 will be given by the Borden Company Foundation, Inc. of New York City "to the student who has achieved the highest average grade among the members of his class for aU college work taken during the freshman year." Students enrolling cis freshmen next Sep­tember wiU be eligible for the presentation which will be made early in their sophomore year. 
According to H. A. Ross, president of the Borden Foimdation, the Borden Freshman Prize is being established at a limited number of col­leges and universities "to emphasize the im­portance of scholarly work at the very begin­ning of the student's college C2u:eer." The Foun­dation has provided a number of annual schol­arship awards to college seniors for several years. 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 


Fr. Cavanaugh Talks at New Hampshire U. 
Delivering the baccalaureate sermon at com­mencement exercises of the University of New Hampshire, Father John J. Cav£maugh, C.S.C, told the graduates that they must "never be contented with mediocrity. If you want peace of soul," he said, "you must strike out for a cer­tain leadership in your civic commimity, in your business or professional life, in the cultural en­vironment which you enter, in the alertness that you develop towards the affairs of this beloved country, and in its relations to the other peoples of the world." 
Now director of the Notre Dame Foundation, Father Cavanaugh stressed that freedom of the thinking power, great as it is, is only one phase of freedom of the spirit of man. "Freedom of the moral side of the human personality is equally, if not more, important," he said. 
Most of the crises of ovir day, whether they affect the family, the nation or the world at large, "are spiritual and moral crises even more than they are intellectual," Father Cavanaugh contended. "Their solution," he said, "wiU be found by persons of trained and enlightened minds only if in the spirit of mercy and love £md God's invisible help, they wiU have achieved ^ freedom in their own hearts." 

N. D. Receives CBS Grant 
Notre Dame is one of sixteen privately-sup­ported colleges and universities from which twenty-five key CBS executives were graduated who will receive a grant of $2,000. The money can be used where most needed, according to an announcement recently by CBS Foundation, Inc., the agency for making educational and char­itable contributions on behalf of CBS, Inc., and its divisions. The grants for aU 16 schools total $50,000. 
The figure of $2,000 approximates the "cost of education" which is paid from an institu­tion's endowment or other accumulated funds and is over and above the costs actually charged to the student. Like other college graduates, the CBS executives were not asked to pay this additional part of their college costs at^ e time they were students. CBS Foundation Inc. began in 1954 its plan of "repayment" on behalf of a limited number of CBS executives meeting cer­tain qualifications. 

GIFTS BY CLASSES. FROM JAN. 1-JUNE 15.1956 
Clou 
1900 and before 1901 1902 1903 1904 1905 1906 1907 1908 1909 1910 1911 1912 1913 1914 1915 1916 1917 1918 1919 1920 1921 1922 1923 1924 1925 1926 1927 1928 1929 1930 1931 1932 1933 1934 
1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 1945 1946 1947 1948 1949 1950 1951 1952 1953 1954 1955 1956 
Undergraduates Honorary Alumni Student Foundation Week.. Notre Dame Clubs Alumni Corp. Gifts in Kind 
Amount Contributed
 $220,229.91 75.00 28.00 215.00 195.00 455.00 1,250.00 140.00 235.00 780.00 1,125.00 16,527.50 205.00 515.00 538.00 2,530.00 665.00 424.00 417.00 425.00 390.00 775.00 1,204.00 3,841.00 3,575.00 2,803.00 3,278.00 4,445.50 3,297.00 7,137.75 1,933.00 5,476.18 2,250.00 3,918.00 1,733.00 3,748.00 2,889.00 1,674.00 2,626.00 2,440.00 2,580.50 2,235.00 2,148.01 2,548.25 2,204.00 1,001.50 764.00 1,476.00 2,665.00 3,989.50 4,544.64 2,745.50 2,697.00 2,360.10 1,780.00 1,561.00 10,135.00
 4.00 300.00 210.00
 22,505.23 17,007.43 502.75 
394,372.41 
 Number of Contributors
 13 2 4 6 6 5 9 6 5 8 5 14
 8 16 17 18 15 19 15 10 15 23 33 48 53 71 62 88 80 82 84 161 107 112
 85 117 82 96 107 117 137 123 120 130 126 71 54 123 207 308 267 224 233 238 189 159
 16 3 2 1 
 25  21 2 
 4603 
 Number of Alumni
 80 13 14 17 27 23 36 21 32 34 29 65 57 60 75 73 69 99 80 64 91
 117 177 224 227 318 275 396 456 474 482 531 324 344 347 313 421 455 503 562 648 594 369 569 528 339 304 723 1056 1398 1160
 912 1084 853 992 950 1117 
 22601 
 Percentage ol  Rirtidpatron 
 16.2  15.3  28.5  35.2  22.2  21.7  25.0  28.5  15.6  23.5  17.2  21.5  14.0  26.6  22.6  24.6  21.7  19.1  18.7  15.6  16.4  19.6  18.6  21.4  23.3  22.3  22.5  22.2  17.5  17.2  17.4  30.3  20.4  20.5  15.5 
 22.8  19.4  21.0  21.2  20.8  21.1  20.7  21.0  22.8  23.8  20.9  17.7  17.0  19.6  22.0  23.0  24.5  21.4  27.9  19.0  16.7 
 1.4 
 20.1 
Mrs. Bonnie Rockne 



Complications Cause Dealfi of Mrs. Rockne 
Mrs. Bomiie Skiles Rockne, 64, \vidow of Notre Dame's unmortal foot­ball coach, Knute Rockne, died at 
4:42 p.m. June 2, in St. Joseph Hos­pital, South Bend, Ind. 
Hospital authorities attributed Mrs. 

Rockne's death to complications. She 
had been a patient for several weeks. 
Mrs. Rockne lived quiedy in the brick home that she and her husband built after he became the most famous coach of his era. Rockne died in a plane crash in 1931 at the height of his career. 
The widow of the man who made Notre Dame and football nationally synonymous as a player and a coach never sought the glare of publicity, though former players and friends of her husband often visited her in the years after his death. 
Her activities centered largely around her family and St. Joseph's Catholic Church, her influence being a major factor in her husband's con­version in 1925. 
In the days when "Rock" was in his prime as coach of the Notre Dame football teams, Mrs. Rockne was much more than the wife of the coach. She won her place in the hearts of her husband's players as a "mom" to the boys, and many a night her home would be filled with Rockne's boys, many of them now remembered as football greats. 
The Rockne home in those days \vas not far off campus and the players (Continued on page 15) 
Notre Dame Alumntu, August, 1956 11 
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, GS.C, '06, received a special citation at the annual Faculty Club dinner. Left to right: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president, who gave the prin­cipal address; Father Burlie; and Professor William Burke, president­elect of the Faculty' Club. 

Promotions Announced At Faculty Dinner 
The annual Presidents Dinner for the Notre Dame faculty' was attended by more tlian 600 professors, adminis­tration officials and their wives in the Universit)' Dining Hall. Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., host of the affair, addressed those in attendance. 
The promotion of 38 faculty mem­bers to die ranks of professor, associate professor and assistant professor was announced by Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., vice-president of academic affmrs. 
Honored guests at the dinner in­cluded Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C.S.G., '06, professor of religion; Francis W. Kervick, former head of the Depart­ment of Architecture; and Paul C. Bartholomew, Wesley G. Bender, An­drew J. Boyle, Louis L. Hasley, Walter 
M. Langford, Marie Lawrence, Rev. Joseph A. Muckenthaler, G.S.G., James 
A. Reyniers, Geoige E. Rohrbach and John P. Turley, staff members who are completing 25 years at the University. 
12 Notre Dame AlumnuSj August^ 1956 
Father Burke was cited as a "great and self-sacrificing priest" and "a vital teacher and an eloquent preacher." Mr. Kervick who taught at the Uni­versity for almost 40 years imtil he retired in 1950, was designated pro­fessor emeritus of architecture. 
Faculty members who were raised to the rank of professor included: A. Robert Gaponigri, philosophy; John T. Groteau, economics; William H. Ham­ill, chemistry; James A. Jenkins, mathe­matics; John J. Kane, sociology; Ste­ponas Kolupaila, civil engineering; and George G. Kuczynski, metallurgy. 
Father Moore named 17 to be as­sociate professors. Included are Fred­erick Bagemihl, mathematics; Louis L. Bernard and Vincent P. DeSantis, his­tory; Rev. Frederick G. CoimoUy, Rev. Joseph E. Haley, G.S.G., and Rev. Jo­seph Papin, religion; James P. Danehy, general program; William J. Grupp, modem languages; John J. Kennedy, political science; Lawrence H. Lee, en­gineering mechanics; John R. Malone^ marketing; John W. Mihelich, physics; Raymond B. Plummer, civil engineer­ing; Rev. Herman R. Reith, G.S.C., philosophy; Robert J. Schultz, archi­tecture; William E. Slowey, account­ing; and Erhard M. Winkler, geology. 
Fourteen Notre Dame instructors were advanced to the rank of assistant professor. They are Richard G. Balfe, Theodore B. Hodges and Frederick B. Pike, history; Rev. George G. Bernard, G.S.G., Rev. Edward D. O'Gonnor, G.S.G., Rev. Daniel J. O'Neil, C.S.G., and Rev. Robert S. Pelton, G.S.G., re­ligion; Rev. Glenn R. Boaiman, G.S.G.. philosophy; Leo M. Gorbaci and Ar" nold F. McKee, economics; Frederick 
J. Grosson, general program; Fred W. Syburg, speech; and Robert J. Wad-dick and Rev. John E. Walsh, G.S.G., education. 
FR. CAVANAUGH OBSERVES 25th YEAR OF ORDINATION 
The Rev. John J. Gavanaugh, C.S.G., celebrated his Silver Jubilee in the priesthood on June 22 with a Mass of Thanksgiving at­tended by members of the Foundation and Alumni Office staffs. 
Gurrently director of the Notre Dame Foundation, Father Gavanaugh served as president of the University from 1946 Fr. Cavanaugh to 1952. His term of ' administration was marked by great physical expansion and academic de­velopment at Notre Dame including a $9,000,000 construction program and the establishment of the Natural Law Institute, elevation of LOBUND to an Institute status, the inauguration of the General Program and the laimching o r the Gollege of Commerce Experimental Program for Administrators. 
Entering the University in 1917, he became secretary to the Rev. John W. Gavanaugh, C.S.G., president. Follow­ing graduation in 1923 from the Col­lege of Commerce, he worked as assist-^ ant advertising manager for the Stude­baker Corporation, until 1926, before resigning to enter the priesthood. 
Father Cavanaugh was ordained in Sacred Heart Church on the campus in 1931 after spending a year in the novitiate and four years of study at (Continued on page 14) ^ 
,^The generalate and international house of studies of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Rome will be the scene of a general chapter of the community opening July 10th. Very Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C. (inset), superior genera], will preside at the sessions which will be attended by forty-nine Holy Cross priests and Brothers from throughout the world. Provincials of the several provinces of the Congregation will be elected at the general chapter which is the highest governing body of the community. 
•GeneralChapter Delegates Attend Sessions in Rome 
Eighteen priests and Brothers will attend the general chapter of the Con­gregation of Holy Cross opening in 

}Rome on July 10th. The Very Rev. Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C, supe­rior general, will preside at the chapter sessions which \vill be held at the new generalate of the community there. 
Heading the American delegates \vill be Rev. Theodore J. Mehling, C.S.C, provincial of the Holy Cross priests' 

.^Indiana Province; Rev. James W. Connerton, C.S.C, provincial of the priests' Eastern Province; and Brother Ephrem O'Dwyer, C.S.C, provincial of the Brothers' Province in the United States. A total of fort)'-nine e.x officio members and elected delegates will participate in the general chapter, the highest governing body of the congre­"gation. A general chapter is convened every sLx years. 
During the sessions, which are ex­pected to last from seven to ten days, provincials of the several provinces of the Congregation of Holy Cross throughout the world will be elected. 

SThe Congregation operates colleges, imiversities and high schools and is en­gaged in parish work, foreign missions and the press apostolate in the United States, Canada, France, Italy, East Pakistan, Chile, Brazil, Haiti, and Scodand. Delegates from the Indiana Prov­^ince, in addition to the three provin­
cials, are Rev. Bernard I. Mullahy, C.S.C, assistant provincial, and Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C, provincial treas­urer; Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, president of Notre Dame; and Rev. Richard Grimm, C.S.C, assistant religious superior at Notre Dame. Rev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C, president of the University of Portland in Oregon; and Rev. George DePrizio, C.S.C, dean of men at King's College, Wilkes Barre, Pa., will likewise be present. 
Other delegates to the general chap­ter are Brother John Baptist Titzer, C.S.C, assistant provincial. Brother Bonaventure Foley, C.S.C, provincial secretary, and Brother Kieran Ryan, C.S.C, provincial treasurer, all of No­tre Dame; Brother Columba Curran, C.S.C, superior of Dujarie Institute at Notre Dame; and Brother Ehno Bramsby, C.S.C, president, and Brodier Edmund Hunt, C.S.C, St. Ed­ward's University, Austin, Tex. 
Club Presidents 
(Continued from page 3) 
tare Vestments Presentation, Tony Earley, New York City; All-Florida Catholic High School Sports Teams Awards, Michael Zorovich, Miami; High School Football Trophy Presen­tation, William G. Bums, Philadelphia; Orphans Football Trip, Joseph P. Har­mon, Kentucky; Friendly Foes Party, James Byrne, Detroit; Communion Breakfast for Catholic College Alumni, Joseph McDonald, Rhode Island; Ap­preciation Night Banquet, Harry Mon­ahan, San Diego; Boy-of-the-Year Award, Charles McFarland, Okla­homa City; and the Florida State Alumni Convention, Robert Gore, Ft. Lauderdale. 
Tbose who attended the Presidents Council were: Thomas J. Botzum, Akron; J. Murray Weman, Baltiniore; Richard S. Herlihy, Boston; Ralph F. Else, Buffalo; Cornelius J. Styers. Cedar Rapids; Harold A. Bair, Central California; Theodore E. Demmerle, Central New York; Robert E. Wright, Chicago; Robert C Bomkamp, Cincinnati; John W. Gordon, Columbus; Jacob M. Reichenstein, Jr., Dallas; Clement E. Constantine, Dearborn; Arthur 
C. Gregory, Denver; Dr. Edward R. Posner, Jr., Des Moines; James Byrne, Detroit; Paul Kurd, Eastern Kansas; Robert J. Sibilslcy, Flint. 
John C. Sullivan, Ft. Lauderdale; J. Thomas O'Reilly, Fort Wayne; Paul W. Smith, Georgia (Atlanta]; Charles W. Dufiy, Gerald Houseman and Walt Guiltman, Grand Rapids and Western Atichi­gan; Michael Zorovich and Ed Kelly, Greater Miami; John W, Davis, Harrisburg; Robert F. Voclker, Hiawathalaad (Mich.); Donald F. O'Brien, Houston; Paul O'Cotmell, Kalamazoo; Maynard R. Bissonnettc, Kankakee Valley; Russell J. Farrell, Kansas City; Joseph P. Harmon, Kentucky; Joseph 
D. Becker, LaCrosse; George Meeker, Los Angeles; Andrew D. Hufnagel, Mid-Hudson Valley; Louis 
W. Apone, Monongahela Valley; James J. Scigliono, Naugatuck Valley; Louis C. Lujan, New Mexico. 
Peter L. Hilbert, New Orleans; Anthony F. Earley, Jr., New York City; Richard H. Brodeur, North Florida; Richard J. Ames, Northern Cali­fornia; Charles McFarland, Oklahoma City; Peter 
F. Sandrock, Oregon; John J. Jacobs, Peoria; William G. Bums, Philadelphia; Edward V. O'Mol­ley, Jr., Phoenix; Leo J. Vogel, Jr., Pittsburgh; Joseph L. McDonald, Rhode Island and Southeast-em Massachusetts; Jack Nye DufFey, Rochester; Frank H. Sweeney, Rockford; Luke R. Morin, Rock River Valley; WlUam A. Hendrick and Carl Doozan, Saginaw Valley; Robert A. McAuIiffe, Sa­lina; Harry Monahan, San Diego; William G. Leonard, Schenectady. 
Paul Brannan, South Central Wisconsin; Albert J, (Jack) Thomas, Southern Colorado; 'William Gibbons, St. Joseph Valley; Donald A. Doheny, St. Louis; Fred G. Christman, Jr., Terre Haute; 
J. Emmett Keenan, Tri-Cities; Kenneth J. Bayly and Lyle Stouffer, Tucson; Robert D. Sheehan, Tulsa; John J. Connelly, Twn Cities; Frank A. Crovo, Jr., Virginia; Dr. Matthew J. Sullivan, Washington, D. C ; Bernard J. Lenoue, Western Washington; Cornelius T. Desmond. West Virginia; Dr. Bernard Crowley, Witchita: Charles Cushwa, Youngstown. 
Notre Dame High Scliooi Dedicated by Cardinal 

Dedication of the new Notre Dame High School in Niles, Illinois, was held on May 6 with His Eminence Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chi­cago, and Rev. Theodore Mehling, C.S.C., Provincial, officiating. The In­diana Priests Province of the Congre­gation of Holy Cross is in charge of the management of this $2,700,000 secondary school. Rev. James D'Autre­mont, C.S.C, is the first principal and superior with Father John Van Wolv­lear as his assistant. In addition, foiu> teen other priests have been assigned to the Notre Dame High School staff as well as tivo laymen in the physical education department. Following the Cardinal's address. Father Mehling gave the benediction. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 13 

One hundred sixty alumni and guests enjoyed the second annual Florida State Convention held at the Sea Ranch Hotel in Ft. Lauderdale. 
Father Hesburgh Speaks At Alumni Convention 
BY TRUDY ERNST 
The second annual Alumni State Convention of the combined Notre Dame Clubs of Florida, held the week­end of April 20 at the Sea Rancli Hotel in Ft. Lauderdale, was high­lighted by an address by Rev. Theo­dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., at the Sat­urday night banquet. Other features enjoyed by the 160 alumni and guests included three days of swimming; bridge, putting and shuffleboard tour­naments; diving and tennis exhibitions in addition to %'arious other special features. 
Those in attendance not only came from the State of Florida but also from New York City, Cleveland, Ohio, South Bend, Indiana, and Manitowoc, Wisconsin. Follo\ving registration on Friday afternoon, guests enjoyed cock­tails and dinner served at the Sea Ranch. 
Dick Whalen chairmanned the Con­vention bridge tournament which suc­ceeded in getting three times as many participants as originally expected. High scorers were Willard Moss and Mrs. Dick AVhalen. Activity at the card tables came to an end at mid­night when Chefs Moss and Ed Kelly served a deUcious charcoal-broiled hamburger snack for everj'one present. 
The putting and shuffleboard tour­naments were directed by E. "Fitz" Gore and Hal Peters respectively. Both chairmen were so enthusiastic iabout 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
these two events that ever>'body en­tered the tournaments. Fitz barely nosed out George Ernst in the putting contest while Dr. Lyle Russell and Charlie Maher were awarded top hon­ors in shuffleboard. 
A beautiful and outstanding exhibi­tion of s>'nchronized swimming and diving was performed by the Ft. Lau­derdale Swimming Association girls di­rected by Tom Lamar. Tom Nolan and John Ghapla provided the aquatic lughlight of the week when they joined the swimmers in a special "balloon race in costume." 
After lunch on the outside deck, a professional tennis match was staged between Jim and Jerry Evert, former Irish net stars, and well-known pros Bobby Riggs and Gtotnts. 
Preceding the Saturday night ban­quet, a cocktail party was held on the pool terrace. John Sullivan, president of the Notre Dame Club of Ft. Lauder­dale, was toastmaster at the dinner and introduced Alumni Secretary James E. Armstrong, State Foundation Governor Faris Cowart, and many other prominent guests. Father Hes­burgh gave an inspiring address to the group concerning the curriculum and teachmg staff at Notre Dame. After the banquet the guests enjoyed dancing in the beautiful launge of the Sea Ranch. 
Father Hesbureh celebrated Mass at Assumption Church for the group on# 

Simday morning and preached a 
never-to-be-forgotten sermon on the 
spirit of Notre Dame. After a delicious 
breakfast, the guests watched him give 
an impromptu demonstration of skin 
diving techniques at the Sea Ranch 
pool. 
A scnunptious buffet luncheon pre-<? pared by Chef Pohl brought conven­tion activities to a close on Sunday afternoon. The success of the State Alumni Convention is assured for 1957 with the advanced booking of the Sea Ranch by the Ft. Lauderdale Club for May 3 to 5. ^ 
Those who attended are as follows: 

Mr. and Mrs. WUlard Moss, Bill Curtin, Sfr. and Mn . James Armstrong, Mr. and A£rs. Richard Brodcur, FranV Elliott, Mr. and Mrs. Hal Peters, Mr. and Mrs. Al Kcssing, Mr. and Mrs. Ted Gore, Mr. and Mrs. Michael Zoro\-ich, Mr. and ^f^s. James A. Smith, Mr. and ^^rs. James A. Nolan, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Ramvolf, Mr. and Jfrs. Roy Laughlin, Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Leonard, Mr. and Mrs. Ed Kelly, ^^r. and ^Irs. Charles Cunningham, Atr. and Afrs. Roy Deeb, Mr. and Mrs. F. H. Baumer, Mr. and Atrs. Jim McGoIdrick, Mr. and|| Mrs. Charles O'Coimor, Mr. and Mrs. George ^ Gore, Mr. and Mrs. Dick INTialcn, Dr. and Mrs. Lyle Russell, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Afahcr, Mr. and Mrs. John AfcMackin, Mr. and Mrs. Tom Nolan, Mr. and Mrs. Frank McDonaugh, Afr. and Mrs. John Chapla, Afr. and Mrs. John Sulli\-an. Bill Brogan, Mr. and Mrs. I. I. Probst, Mr. and Mrs. John Anhut, Faris Cow-art, Mr. and Mrs. George Ernst, Gene Chari, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert Nadcau, Mr. and Mrs. Matt Butti. 
Mr. and Mrs. Paul Glass, Mr. and Mrs. George McFadden, ifr. and Mrs. Raymond Roy, Mr. and Mrs. Fred Piowat>-, Mr. and Mrs. Edward^'. Lauth, Mr. and Mrs. Joe E. Kecfc, Mary Joe^ Keele, Dolly Webster, Mr. and Mrs. Dan Rowlands, Mr. and Mis. Michael Brisch, Dr. and Mrs. James Cooney, James C. Downey, Bill Readon, Afr. and Afrs. Normi Thcron, Mr. and Mrs. James Evert, Afr. and Afrs. Jerry Evert, Afr. and Afrs. Robert Dickey, Afr. and Afrs. Ward AfcCarron, Afr. and Afrs. R. H. Gore, ST., Afr. and Afrs. Ted Afar­baugh, Afr. and Mrs. Robert Konas, Don Smith, Afr. and Afrs. Phil Riley, Afr. and Afrs. R. H. Gore, Jr., Frank AfcGinn, David Afoss, Dick Sa^-age, Ray Doumar, Afr. and Afis. Robert Scott, Gene Klein, Tom Seaman, Bill AfcAIpin, Afr. and Afrs. Ed Hanley, Dr. A. AfcNichols, Dr. * Coppala, Dr. Fantzzi. 
Father Cavanaugh 

(Continued from page 12) Holy Cross College, Washington, D. C. In 1933 he studied at the Gregorian University in Rome and received a Licentiate in Philosophy. Father Cav-jp anaugh was appointed prefect of reli­gion at Notre Dame in 1934 succeed­ing the Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, who later was to become president of the University and who now is Arch­bishop of Philadelphia. 
Father Cavanaugh was named vice-president of Notre Dame and chairman . of the Faculty Board in Control of Athletics in 1940 and he succeeded the late Rev. J. Hugh O'Donnell, C.S.C, in the presidency. Father Cavanaugh has been director of the Notre Dame Foundation since 1952. His brother. Rev. Francis P. Cavanaugh, is profes­sor of sociology at the University. ,i| 
^Redecorate Washington Hall; Install Cinemascope Screen 
Notre Dame's venerable Washing­ton Hallj scene of thousands of con­certs, plays, lectures and historic con-

evocations since its dedication in 1882, is being completely remodeled and re­decorated this summer. Scheduled for completion by September, the project includes new seats, carpeting, stage cur­tains, radiant heating, a cinemascope screen and public address system. 
m According to Rev. Arthur Harvey, C.S.C., director of the University The­atre, virtually all of Washington Hall's facilities wU be new or greatly im­proved even though no major struc­tural changes \vdll be made in the 75­year-old building. Workmen already are busy from backstage to the lobby 
.-and scaffolding rises from the orches­tra floor to the ceiling. 
The seating capacity of Washington Hall when remodeled will be 848, only slightly less than at present. New auto­matic uplift chairs -with light oak arms and upholstered in red mohair will be installed in the orchestra and balcony. 

,^ The aisles and side areas of the theater 
'proper are to be carpeted in charcoal grey while variegated black and white rubber tile has been chosen for the flooring; beneath the seats. 
The ceiling of the campus theater \sdll be painted persian grey and the walls and woodwork will be crystal grey. The proscenium arch is to be framed in two tones of grey with gilt. A brilh'ant gold velour front curtain with matching valence has been or­dered for the stage. The gold motif will be carried out in grand drapes covering the windows. 
Father Harvey said that all lighting fixtures in the building are to be re­placed. New down lights vnll provide illumination from the ceiling and re­cessed lighting wU be installed under the balcony. A super carousel lightolier, suspended from the center of the ceil­ing, will be the only decorative lighting fixture in the theater. 
Always kno\vn for its favorable acoustics for dramatic and musical events, Washington Hall's acoustics will be improved further wth the in­stallation of fibre glass material in the rear walls as well as by a new public address system recessed in the walls. 
For the first time, three dimensional movies will be shown there with the installation of a cinemascope screen and the necessary additional projection and sound equipment. The remodeled 

Dr. Matt Sullivan (standing), president of the Washington, D. C. Alumni Club, was on a panel session with Maynard Bissonnette (left), president of the Kankaiiee Valley Qub, during the recent Presidents Council held on the campus. John Cackley ser\'ed as moderator. 
Washington Hall will receive a long-needed 'face lifting' during the summer. 
building will have radiant heating and a new ventilating system throughout. Backstage, a new silver ripple traveler curtain, a new dimmer unit for the recently installed light board and new nylon rope rigging wll add to the at­tractiveness of theatrical productions and to the eificiency of stage crews. 
Washington Hall's lobby and meza­nine, too, will be completely redecor­ated. They will be painted in sandal­wood and coral, but the natural oak of the grand staircase ^vill be preserved. The masks of tragedy and comedy, tra­ditional symbols of the theater, -ivill be inlaid in the center of the lobby's tile floor. 
Mrs. Roekne 
(Continued from page 11) 

gathered in the coach's living room to hash over the day's activities and their plans for days to come. 
Mrs. Roekne was bom in Upper Sandusky, O., Dec. 18, 1891, and was educated in public schools there. She met Knute Roekne at a summer resort at Cedar Point, O. 
Surviving are four children, a daugh­ter, Mary Jeanne, at home; three sons, William D., South Bend, Knute Jr., Chicago, and John V., South Bend; a half-sister, Mrs. Joseph Dierickx, South Bend, and four half-brothers, William and Justin J. Jones, South Bend; Elvin Jones, Rt. 2, Niles, Mich., and Ira Jones, Kenton, Ohio. There are five grandchildren. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 15 

Rev. Robert W. Woodward, C.S.C., Director of Office for Military Affairs at Notre Dame, delivers Memorial Day sermon to members of R.O.T.C. groups. 
Military Units Urged To Accept Leadership 
Prior to the end of tlie spring semes­ter, tlie Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, celebrated a military Mass in Sacred Heart Church which was at­tended by members of Notre Dame's 
R.O.T.C. units. Preceding the Mass, Rev. Robert \Voodward, C.S.C, Direc­tor of the Office for Military Affairs at the University, delivered a "Memo­rial Day" address to student members of Notre Dame's Army, .\ir Force and Nax")' groups. 
Extracts of Father Woodward's re­

marks are as follows: 
It is altogether fitting that we on this day revere tlie memory of those who have preceded us and who bought witli their blood the liberty of free-men which we enjoy. Altliough we never knew their company, nevertheless we are their companions and their com­patriots. 
It is equally fitting that we pay trib­ute to tliose who have preceded us in this University and who as citizens and as soldiers have established a re­nown for patriotism, for learning and for Catholic leadership. It is to their credit and not to us, that Notre Dame enjoys a worthy reputation. What we wear is borrowed vesture. And, al­though we have all gained much from their wisdom, devotion and example —there remains the danger that we lose all—if we fail to capture the spirit of their achievement. It is not enough for us on this one day to remember our friends and to breathe a prayer in their behalf. We must recapture some­thing of tlieir spirit and motivation. 
16 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
This is the heirloom which gives char­
acter and courage to people, and which 
when lost, leaves them spiritually bank­
rupt and divided. 
AVe are living in a new era and we must face up to new problems which impose new obligations and require new solutions. The challenge that is offered to every educated Catholic is to live in the midst of tliis changing world and yet to remain unchanged. At a time when ever>'thing is in prep­aration,—everything in process, when nothing is completed and nothing fully accepted, we must stand firm and xm­compromising on principle. We must be equally opposed to drift as to des­tiny. AVe must be conservative, and yet remain creative. 
In tlie face of this ever rising chal­lenge we note a serious lack of gener­osity and of positive attitudes on tlie part of Catholic students. Indeed, from the founding of tliis republic till now, we Catholics have been wthout an adequate sense of social responsibility. There is too much passive submission and surrender. AVe need more stiffen­ing. We are too soft, too pliant and too obliging, if Christianity is ever to be­come a leaven of the mass, tlien Chris­tians must be everywhere and in fer­ment. It is not enough to peddle petty accuracies when the times demand high priests and prophets of courage and enlightenment. Modem society and civilization are wasting away for lack of men who can inspire and en­lighten others. 
(Continued on page 18) 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION | BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OfiScers 

DR. LEO D. O'DONNELL, '17 
Honorary President JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., '36 President JOHN E. MCINTYRE, '31 First Vice-President^ ROBERT H. GORE, JR., '31 
Second Vice-President JAMES L. FERSTEL, '48 Third Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Director and Secretary 
Directors to 1957 

JOHN E. MCINTYRE, '31 206 E. Tutt St., South Bend, Indiana JAMES L. FERSTEL, '48 111 W. Washington St., Chicago 2, 111. ROBERT H. GORE, JR., '31 ....4901 Ocean Dr., Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. j JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., '36 ....209 N. Big Spring St., Midland, Texas 
Directors to 1958 

JOHN W. BRENNAN, '27 American Blower Corp., Detroit, Mich. 
J. PATRICK CANNY, '28 . 14700 Clifton Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio PATRICK J. FISHER, '36 605 E. 42nd St., Indianapolis, Ind.j~ 
JOSEPH E. WHALEN, '29 ® Hotel Fort Des Moines, Des Moines, Iowa 
Directors to 1959 

OSCAR J. DORWIN, '17 The Texas Company 135 E. 42nd St., New York 17, N. Y. EDJIOND R. HAGGAR, '38 The Haggar Com­pany, 6113 Lemmon Ave., Dallas, Texas« EUGENE M . KENNEDY, '22 ^ 148 So. Orange Dr., Los Angeles, Calif. FRANCIS L. LAYDEN, '36 
i 

701 College Highway, Evansvillc, Ind. 
Chairmen of the 1956 Committees 
JOSEPH I. O'NEILL Executive ROBERT H . GORE, JR Club Activities" JA^IES L. FERSTEL Class Activities JOHN E. MCINTYRE _ 
Foundation, Alumni Fund, Gifts 

JAMES L. FERSTEL 
Preparatory School Relations 

JOHN W. BRENNAN 
Job Counseling and Placement • 

J. PATRICK CANNY Constitution" JOHN E. MCINTYRE Inter-Alumni Affairs JOSEPH E. WHALEN 
Prestige and Public Relations 

J. PATRICK CANNY Budget Committee . JOHN W. BRENNAN Resolutions • 
PATRICK J. FISHER Religion and Citizenship ; JOSEPH E. WHALEN Nominations J 
ROCKFORD—^Al Carroll (second from left) was Man of the Year in Rockford. Others at UND Night dinner include, from left to right: Msgr. William G. McMillan; Edward W. Krause, principal speaker; and Club President Frank Sweeney. 
^Attending the graduation of their two sons from Notre Dame in June were Mr. and Mrs. Andrew T. Lum of Honolulu. From left to right: Father Robert Lochner, CS.C; Mr. Lum; Andrew P. Lum; Elaine Lum; Mrs. Lum; and Theodore K. Lum. 
TALLAHASSEE—Alunmi Secretary James E. Armstrong was the principal speaker at the club's UND Night observance. Others in the photo, from left to right, are: Mrs. Armstrong; Willoughby Marshall, chairman of the dinner; and Miss Marty Hall. 
KERVICK FARM DONATED TO OPUS DEI MOVEMENT 
Professor Emeritus Francis W. Ker­vick, former head of Notre Dame's Department of Architecturej has do­nated a farm in Vermont to the Opus Dei movement. This is the first secular institute approved by the Holy Father. Plans are under way to remodel the farm house that -ivill be used for re­treats, days of recollection and courses on spirituality. 
Opus Dei was started in October, 1928, by Msgr. Joseph M. Escripa and its primary purpose is to achieve the personal sanctification of its members and to spread the life of Christian per­fection. Members are men and women from all walks of life who continue to live their normal ways without the habit or community life of a religious but who consecrate themselves to God by private vows of poverty, chastity and obedience. 
Summer Schedule 
According to a recent announce­ment by Rev. Glenn Boarman, C.S.C., Coordinator of Conventions, the following schedule will pertain to meetings, conferences and other special conclaves scheduled for the remaining part of this summer on the Notre Dame campus: July 12-15—Vocation Institute 
16-17—Chemistry Symposimn 31—Summer School Grad­uation 30-31—Catholic Bandmasters' 
Convention July 31­Aug. 9—Catholic Bandmasters' 
Band Camp 1- 7—^Institute of Spirituality 9-12—^Laymen's Retreat 
13-16—Third Order Youth Congress 
13-18—Young Christian ^Vork­ers' Convention 15-18—CFM Chaplains Meet­
ing 16—Final Profession (Indi­ana Province) 16-20—National Catholi c Rural Life Institute 
17-19—CFM Convention Aug. 20­Sep. 14—Second Sur\'eyors 
Course 
23-26—CSMC Convention Aug. 30­Sep. 4—Crossroads Convention 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 17 

Professor Ivan Mestrovic (left), internationally famous sculptor and now a member of Notre Dame's faculty, received the National Institute of Arts and Letters Gold Medal and prize of $1,000 from Walker Hancock, recently in New York City. 
Sculptor Award Presented 
To Professor 

Professor Ivan Mestrovic of Notre Dame received the Gold Medal for Sculpture of die National Institute of Arts and Letters at a recent ceremony in New York. The 72-year-old inter­nationally recognized artist is generally regarded as the outstanding living sculptor of religious subjects. 
Mestrovic accepted tlie award at the joint annual ceremonial of the Insti­tute and the American Academy of Arts and Letters. He was also for­mally inducted as a newly elected member of the Institute. A Gold Medal for Music was presented to Aaron Copland who has been de­scribed as "America's first great com­poser." 
The Institute's gold medals are awarded for distinguished achievement in each of tivo distinct branches of the arts each year. Ten artistic fields are designated for the award, each being dealt with in rotation every five years. The entire work of the recipient, rather than a specific example, is taken into consideration. Previous medalists in 
18 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
Mestrovic 

sculpture were Augustus Saint-Gau­dens, George Gray Bernard, Paul Man-ship and James Earle Fraser. 
Mestrovic joined the Notre Dame faculty as professor of sculpture last September. His "Pieta" was recently placed in Sacred Heart Church on the campus after having been e.\hibjted for several years at the Metropolitan Mu­seum in New York City. 
Memorial Day Sermon 

(Continued from page 16) Our aim at Notre Dame is to de­velop leaders who will think more of cause and of principle than of them­selves. We e-xpect Notre Dame grad­uates to have high ideals and strong convictions. We are disappointed if tliey are lacking in normal initiative and legitimate ambition. Only as a commissioned officer can the college graduate enjoy the prized privilege of living and of associating wt h those of his own cultural back­groimd and tastes. Only as an officer 
will he have the chance to exercbe and^" to develop in himself those very gifts^ and traits that make for success in :;! every walk of life. Only the officer is ' permitted and is required to make de­cisions, to shape policy and to affect the life and character of others—and to a greater degree, and at an earher age, than anyone, anywhere else. A 
It is our hope that you young men ' will continue as you have begun and assume the responsibilities of leader­ship—^in one or other of the Armed S Services. Without question Notre Dame has the right to expect that you | win not set for naught the lessons I learned here and first taught you ii^, your homes and in your parishes. ^Vhereve^ you may be, and under whatever circumstances, let your life ;v and conversation reflect a full and a true Christian culture. 
Student Art Show o Displayed at N.D. 
One of the largest single exhibitions ; of art work by students, featuring 150 *| pieces, opened in the University Art ( Gallery on Thunday, May 31, and will | | be on display until July 15. »l 
From the classes in life drawing! under Stanley S. Sessler, Head of the Fine Arts Department, are charcoal sketches, pastels, and crayon work of J the human figure and portrait studies. ;| 
There is an interesting exhibit of sculptures in plaster and patines by i | students in the graduate studios of; Ivan Mestrovic, Notre Dame's distiui-. guished sculptor. A large reUef h™* Mestrovic serves as the centerpiece for the entire exhibition in the west galler)'. 
Fred Beckman's classes show studies;: in commercial art, designs for radios, | | work in hammered and tooled metals,-­and studies in three-dimensional geo-;| metric design. The featured work froms the Beckman classes is a scale modeB in plexiglass for a new car body, done'? as his thesis by Virgil Exner, Jr., styled ;< \vith a new and refreshing streamlining;;^ pattern. For this unusual work, ExnerS won tlie 1956 Jacques Medal. 
Figures of St. Dymphna done inj: bisque, mosaic panels of the head o^^ Christ, crossed-plane animal forms in | ceramic, and several studies of theij human figure in patined plaster repre-| sent the various classes in sculpture;! under Rev. Anthony Lauck, C.S.C.|iS Some of these works were recently seenSf in the Student Sculptors' 6th Annual.51 
A large group of paintings in oilJ 

^ casein, tempera, and other special bases are the work of advanced paint­ers xinder Robert Leader. They reveal the study and understanding of many modem forms of expression and con­temporary handling of theme and style. 
» NEW ASSIGNMENTS GIVEN TO PRIESTS 
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.G., has been appointed placement director at Notre Dame and Rev. Richard D. Murphy, C.S.C, has been named his suc­cessor as director of admissions. Thei r appointments were recently announced by Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, 
G.S.G., president. Father Thornton, 
Thornton 
who had held the admissions post since 1945, replaced Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C, who recently was named director of devel­opment for the Holy Cross Fathers' In­diana Province. Father Murphy has been an assistant professor of physics at Notre Dame since 

R^ 1950. A native of Birm­ingham, Ala., Father Thornton was grad­uated from Notre Dame's College of Commerce in 1929. 
Fr. Miurphy 
He took graduate 

'S work at New York University and Co­lumbia University and was associated wth the Guaranty Trust Co. of New York City for nine years. Returning to Notre Dame in 1938 as an instructor in finance in the College of Commerce, Father Thornton began his studies for the priesthood the following year. He 
J was ordained June 24, 1944, and be­came university registrar a year later. His title was subsequently changed to director of admissions. 
Father Murphy was bom in Lima, Ohio, but spent most of his youth at Marion and Anderson, Ind. He en­

-. tered Holy Gross Seminary at Notre Dame in 1921 and ^vas graduated from the imiversity in 1931. Since his or­dination on Jime 24, 1934, he has been a faculty member at St. Edward's University, Austin, Tex., at the Uni­versity of Portland in Oregon, and at Notre Dame. He is a member of the American Institute of Physics. 
CINCINNATI—Club President Robert Bomkamp presents a $2,000 scholarship fund check, from Cincinnati alumni, to Aliunni Secretary Jim Armstrong at the Presidents Council. 
The Class of 1921 poses prior to "kick-off time' at the Alumni Banquet during Reunion Weekend. 
Alumni of 1911 get together in the jMorris Inn Golfers Lounge for their Friday night Class Dinner during Reunion Weekend. From left to right: CoL R. Otto Probst, J. J. Brislin, Elmo Funk, Fred Steers, Ed Figel and Al Mertes. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 19 
Wrestling | 
Won 6, Lost 4 f 

ND OPPI 
12 Illinois Tech 16 ] 20 Findlay College 8 24 Illinois U. (Chicago Branch) 6 ^ 21 Miami (Ohio) . 9 |
VARSITY RECORDS — 1955-56 21 Chicago 12 ' 18 Northern 111. State Teachers.. 11* 2 Wisconsin 9 11 Western Illinois State 17 |
Football 

18 Brown 8 11 Eastern Illinois State 17 s Won 8, Lost 2 3 Wisconsin 5 24 Marquette 8 | 
GPP 6 Wheaton 18 | Southern Methodist 0 REGULAR SEASON Indiana University 0 Won 10, Lost 9 Tennis I Miami University 0 ND OPP 
Won 7, Lost 8, Tied 1 ^ 

Michigan State 21 6 Indiana 7 
ND OPP ;
Purdue 7 14 Indiana 5 
8 Marshall 1 |
Navy 7 2 Michigan : 5 12 Virginia Polytechnic Inst. 0 |
Pennsylvania 14 5 Iowa (10 innings) 4 9 Wake Forest 0 |
North Carolina 7 1 Iowa 6 
3 Duke 6 I
Iowa University 14 3 Purdue 4 6 North Carolina State Col. 3 ISouthern California 42 Northwestern (rain) 0 North Carolina 9 J
1 Ohio University 9 
Cinciimati (cancelled) * 

7 Ohio University 3
Basketball .r^ 1 Indiana 8 i
6 Michigan 5 
8 Marquette 1 ;Won 9, Lost 15 7 Western Michigan 2 7 Wisconsin 2 |
N D OPP Western Michigan (rain) 3 Tennessee A & I 3 |
71 Detroit 77 15 Purdue (7 iimings) 0 Northwestern (cancelled) |66 Wisconsin 70 Northwestern (rain) 
6 Purdue 3 |85 Loyola (Chicago) (overtime) 84 8 Michigan State 2 0 Michigan 9 \
71 Northwestern 61 3 Great Lakes 2 4 Michigan State 5 9,
93 Illinois 103 4 Michigan State 5 1 Western Michigan 7
75 Minnesota 83 3 Western Michigan 4 1 Kalamazoo 8
78 Michigan State.... (overtime) 84 4 Miimesota* 3 Chicago (cancelled) 
86 Alabama 80 5 Minnesota* 15 
4 Iowa 670 Utah 65 1 Miimesota* 10 83 Butler 69 11 Great Lakes 2 
Golf I

74 DePaul (overtime) 77 75 Louisville (overtime) 80 *NCAA Tournament Won 9, Lost 4 j 86 Northwestern 72 ND OPPC 76 Indiana 81 Fencing 20J4 Indiana 15^2 ] 65 Loyola 71 6/2 Purdue 29J4 I
Won 15, Lost 2

74 Butler 81 27 Glenview Naval Air Sta... 0 |
ND OPP 
70 Navy 63 16 Louisville 2 |
18 Indiana 9
72 Holy Cross 84 3314 Western Illinois S'/z I
21 La^vrence Tech 6
83 Providence (overtime) 85 15 Northwestern 12 |
16 Detroit 11 
68 Purdue 80 2214 Detroit 4/2 i
18 9
88 Marquette 85 12/2 Iowa 14}4^ 
20 Indiana Tech 7
74 DePaul 80 16 Wisconsin 20 |
17 loiva 10 
87 Marquette 69 11 Purdue 25 i
22 Northwestern 5
63 Bradley : 69 30/0 Detroit 5/2 I
19 Wayne 8 
23 Bradley 4 |
17 Chicago 10 
14 Michigan State 13 1
Baseball 15 Ohio State 12 
14 
Michigan State 13 

SPRING EXHIBITION TOUR 13 Track 
Illinois 14 

Won 2, Lost 5 10 Wisconsin 17 CROSS-COUNTRY 18 
(All games played at Florida A & M Oberlin 9 (Won 7, Lost 0—Dual Meets) 
19 
Universityj Tallahassee, Florida) Fenn 8 ND OPP: 
OPP 16 Buffalo 11 23 Chicago Track & Field Club. 34 West Viiginia ...; 4 18 Syracuse .. 9 15 Chicago University 48 j North Carolina _..... 14 March 23-24—NCAA Tournament, 28 Michigan State University 291 Florida State 12 Notre Dame 15th out of 39 schools 18 Indiana University :.. 41 j Illinois 5 competing. 24 Chicago Track Club „ 35^ 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 

^2 4 Quantico Marines 36 
21 Marquette 40 Indiana State Meet: Notre Dame 25, Indiana 42, Bali State 94. 

i CCC Meet: Notre Dame 24, Western Michigan 50, Marquette 52. NCAA: Michigan State 46, Kansas 
^University 68; (tie) Notre Dame and 'Ne w York University 95. 
INDOOR (Won 2, Lost 1—Dual Meets) 
ND OPP 
82 Purdue 22 
74 Missouri 30 

.§51/2 Indiana 52/o Michigan State Relays: 2-Mile Relay, Notre Dame, First; 1-Mile Relay, No­tre Dame, Second; High Jump, Bemie AUard, First, Tom Sanfacon, Second; 75-Yard Hurdles, Aubrey Lewis, First; Shotput, Byron Beams, Second. National AAU: Pennsylvania-Notre 
l l Dame tied for fifth place. CCC Meet: Notre Dame 72; Tie-Western Michigan and Marquette 
28/2; tie—Bradley and Central Michi­gan 13; Wayne 11. Milwaukee Relays: 2-Mile Relay — 
Notre Dame, Third; 1-Mile Relay— 
Notre Dame, First; High Jump — 

5 Bemie Allard (tie) Second, 6'6i4"­Cleveland Relays: 2-Mile Relay—No­tre Dame, Third; 1-Mile Relay—^Notre Dame, First; High Jump—Bemie Al­lard, Fiist, 6'8". 
Chicago Relays: 1-Mile Relay—Notre 
Dame, (tie) First, (with Iowa). 

^ OUTDOOR 
(Won 3, Lost 0—Dual Meets) 86/2 Michigan State 54}4 82/2 Pittsbuigh 48/a 

78 1/3 Marquette 58 1/3 Ohio State Relays: Distance Medley, Notre Dame, First; 880 Relay, Notre Dame, Third; Two-Mile Relay, Notre "» Dame, Fourth; High Jump, Bemie Al­lard, (tie) Third, 6'2"; Hop, Step & Jump, Tom Sanfacon, Second; Jack Cote, Fourth; Shotput, Byron Beams, Second; 440 Relay, Notre Dame, Third. Drake Relays: 400-Yard Hurdles, Aub­rey Lewis, Second; 880 Relay, Notre ^ Dame, Second; University Medley Re­
* lay, Notre Dame, Second; Hop, Step & Jump, Tom Sanfacon, Third; 880 Relay, Notre Dame, Third; High Jump, Bemie Allard, Second, tie with Stevens, Iowa. 
Indiana State Meet at Notre Dame: 
Notre Dame 125J4; Indiana 85; Ball 
State 24; Butler I9/2; Purdue 19; Wa-

HIAWATHALAND—New club officers are, frran left to right: Jrfm Plouff, Secretary; Paul Stack, Treasurer; and Robert Voelker, President. 
bash 12; DePauw 8; Indiana State 1. CCC Meet at Milwaukee: Kansas 73; Notre Dame 39 1/6; Marquette 24J4; Missouri 23. 
DUKE AND CALIFORNIA ADDED TO GRID SCHED 
Duke, Georgia Tech and California will be future football opponents of the Fighting Irish according to an an­nouncement by Ed%vard W. Krause, Director of Athletics. Notre Dame is scheduled for a two-game series with the Blue Devils besinninsf in 1958 ivith the latter visiting here for the first grid game ever scheduled between Duke and the Irish. 

Georgia Tech will play at Notre Dame in 1959 but since Notre Dame's 1960 schedule is already completed a return game with the Rambling Wrecks is not slated at that time. Tech and NJ). have batded on 16 occasions, begirming in 1922, with the Irish vic­torious in 14 games. 
A t\vo-game series between Notre Dame-and Califomia will start in 1959 with the first contest to be staged in Berkeley. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY—^Members of the annual golf outing committee included, left to right: Dick Riley, co-chairman; Bill Gibbons, club president; and Tom Sheehan, co-chairman. 
tfotrt Dam* Alumnus, August, 1956 

Akron 
On Tuesday evening, April 10th, the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Atron celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night with a dinner in the Akron City Club. 
ifr. A. A. HILKERT, a graduate of the Vm­
vcrsit>* of Notre Dame in 1911, was honored and 
named as the Akron Notre Dame Club's man 
of tlie year. 
The meeting and dinner turned out to be a "Hilkert Night." The Award to Hilkcrt was pre­sented by his son, the REVEREND ROBERT HILKERT, Assistant Pastor of the Church of the Annunciation, and author of the book, "Everybody Calls Me Father." 
LA^VRENCE BALDINGER, Dean of the Science department at Notre Dame, addressed the club on the growth of the University's Campus, and told of new dormitories and dining halls to be erected. 
Election of officers Followed the dinner. Newly elected ofBcers arc: TOM B0T2XJM, President; 
E. A. HINDERSCHEID, Vice-President; ROBERT 
J. KAPISH, Secretar>-; and GERALD KLEIN, Treasurer. 
Club President TOM BOT2UM attended the Presidents Council held at Notre Dame in June. He represented the local club at the two-day con­ference which was attended by presidents from 68 Notre Dame alumni dubs throughout the nation. Tom reports it was a huge success and he picked up several wonderful ideas which he plans to pass on to Akron alumni in the near future. 
DENNIS SHAUL will begin classes on a fuli tuition scholarship at Notre Dame this fall. He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. John Shaul, 229 Beck Avenue and was awarded the scholarship on the basis of college entrance examinations. 
—BOB KAPISH, Secj-. 


Aurora 
Early this year the club sponsored the appear­ance of the Notre Dame Glee Club in Aurora. A fine audience enjoyed the splendid performance. Chairman of the event was ROY O'NEIL, a for­mer member of the Glee Club. 
This is one of the acti\aties that the Club sponsors to raise money for our scholarship fund. This year's recipient will be announced in the very near future. John Ambre (*59), who was aii-anicd our first scliolarshjp, has made the Dean's Honor Roll this year. 
At our current meeting the follo\\ing business took place: 
Election of officers for the current year *56-'57: President, ROBERT KEARNS; Vice-President, WAYNE CURRAN; Secretary, JOHN ORSO; Treasurer, DICK McCARTHY, 
Discussion of future club activities: Chicken Fry, Co-chairmen, DICK REEDY and JOHN REILLY; Golf Outing, Co-chairmen, TED ^\^EST and OWEN KANE; Dinner Dance, Co-chairmen, JACK MOYER and BOB THUMM; Communion Sunday, Chairman. BILL CHAWGO; Football Ticket RalHc (game to be selected later). Co-chairmen, LYNN FREIT and ROY O'NEIL. 
—JOHN ORSO, Secy. 


Buffalo 
The April meeting was held at the Hotel Shera­ton with President RALPH ELSE presiding. A short business meeting was held followed by a social. Some of the group played cards and the rest talked. A good time was had by all. 
CHAPLAIN FATHER GARDNER is going to give a two-minute talk each meeting on present-day religious questions. This should prove very interesting and helpful in our every day lives. 
Highlight of the April meeting was the intro­duction of James Rose to the members. He is this year's winner of the BuflTalo Club's $2,000.00 scholarship. Everyone was deeply impressed with 
22 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, J956 
^ . ^ ^t^^ 

Jim. He was President of his Senior Class at 
Father Baker's High School, Editor of the year­
book and he earned his \*arsity letter in cross 
country. The high schools in this area were 
screened and Jim was selected. Best of luck, Jim! 
This year the Stag Picnic was under the direc­tion of JOHN NOVAK and HENRY BALLING. JR. It was held on Saturday, June 30, at Cook's Paradise Grove. This was our third year at Cook's and everyone who has ever been there vrHl certainly agree it is a terrific place for a picnic 
MAURICE QUINN was appointed as chairman of Catholic Action and Education; BERNARD BIRD chairman of Reception; and TONY ROCCO chairman of Publicity. 
Last year's president, JACK SHlNEj has been transferred to Nc*v York City by his company. We alt send our best to Jack and a word of thanks for last year's wonderful job. 
President Ralph Else presented the ND foot­ball trophy to Canisius High School at their an­nual Sports Night. The I<D trophy was retired by Canisius this year since this was their third winning of the trophy. A new trophy will be sponsored by the Buffzdo Club beginning next fall. 
Maury Quinn retired the golf trophy. He is still hitting them far and straight. Maury is donating a trophy for the annual golf tournament, in memory of his late Mother. It will he called the Mary A. Quinn Memorial Trophy. 
BUS PFEIL has been appointed Chairman of the annual ND Night at the Races to be held Jime 18, 1936. Many thanks again for the cfTorts of JIM DUNTS'IGAN, President of the BufTalo Trot­ting Association. 
Congratulations are extended to Mrs. JOHN P. BOL.AND, the newly elected President of the .Alum-Wives. Mrs. CYRIL RICKARD was in charge of plans for the annual family picnic held at the Akron Falls Park, June 3, 1956. 
—DICK LEOUS, '50, Seo-. 


Canada 
The first meeting of the Alumni Association of Canada was held recently and a Constitution was adopted and submitted to the Alumni Office. 
liie dinner meeting was in Montreal on May 
f 

30th with 15 alumni in attendance. Held at the % Steel Company of Canada's offices we had the f i pleasure of ha\ing Father Maurice Desjardins wth ^ us at the afTalr. j Officers elected were as follows: Honorary Presi­dent, FRANK J. SHAUGHNESSY; President, P. • 
H. LaFRAMBOISE; Vice-President, JOE BREN­NAN; Secretary, ED MULCAIR; Treasurer, BOB RENAULT. 
Two (2) of the Directors out of the five (5) to 
be elected, were also chosen, namely FATHER 
MAURICE DESJARDINS and BILL S.ANTEL 
Three (3) other Directors ^vill be chosen from the 
alumni across Canada as provided for in the Con-—^ 
stitution. Therefore, the Board of Directors will'»* 
be made up of five (5) Officers and five (5) 
Directors. 
We also had the pleasure of having with us 
LARRY SULLIVAN ^\ho was coaching at McGill , 
in Montreal and wc are sure as time progresses 
that we will be able to bring in a good percentage 
of the alumni residing here in Canada. 
ED MULCAIR, our Secretar>-, will issue News Letters from time to time informing those who are living in other parts of Canada, of our proposed ' actinties and adnsing that we will have a pcrma-^ nent secretariat located in Montreal where any visiting alumni will be able to contact members of our group in Montreal or vicinity. 
—P. H. LaFR.\MBOISE, Pres. 


Canton 
Last Fall, the ND ticket office sent us 50 tickets 
to the Notre Dame-Miami game. 
The morning of the game, some of the Canton Alumni, together ivith their friends, chartered a plane and flew non-stop to Miami. j | 
It was a genuine pleasure to have our o^^ii cheering section for Notre Dame. 
We are very grateful to the ticket office for [ alloting us such a block of tickets and hope the good will and favorable publicity will offset the favor. 
The trip was such a huge success that with the . i help of the ticket office, we are planning another .1 chartered flight trip again this coming season. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was observed by • ' the Alumni of Canton and Stark County on Wed- ., ] ncsday, April II, at the Holiday Country Club, y^tj A very good turnout was on hand to bear DEAN *^­BALDINGER of the Science School brief the Alumni on the latest developments at Notre Dame concerning prospecti^'e and present students. He told the Alumni of the new counseling and test­ing programs. The observance this year was dif­ferent, in that wives were present, and we hope that this will be an annual affair observed in . this manner. 
After the dinner and the Dean's talk, movies' 
CANTON—Dean La>\Tence Baldingcr, of the College of Science, was the club's featured" speaker on Universal Notre Dame Night, 
_ were shown of the 1935 Irish football games and ^ these proved to be entcrtalnjoff as usual, 
—^tAURICE F. ZINK, Secj-.-Treas. 
Central West Virginia 
Our ofHccrs are as follows: JOHN D. JULIAN, Crartsburg, President; WALTER SCHRADER, Weston, Vice-President; ANDY SLEIGH, SR., Secretary-Treasurer; TOM FEENEY, JR., Director for one year; JOHN MALLOY, ^Veslon, Director for one year; AURCUS FARRELL, Director for 

•
- four years; and GUY H. BRADLEY, Director for four years. 
The above slate will necessitate some kind of an election annually which tics in with our Annual Program, which is: 

1.
 Annual Meeting for election of ofHccrs each March. (Nominations to be made at a February Meeting). 

2.
 Annual Picnic during each Summer. 


3.
 Universal N.D. Night each April at ^vhlch ,^time we hope to have a *'ilan of the Year" 


selection. 
4.
 Communion Sunday as near as possible to December 8th. 

5.
 Christmas Party some time during the Christ­mas-New Years wecfc. 

6.
 Meetings of the Board of Directors whenever deemed necessary. Board is composed of all elected officers. 


Dues have been set at Hve buclcs annually with assessments being levied at the discretion of the 

^ Board. 
" The area covered by our Club consists of the follo^ving Counties in Central W. Va.: Harrison, ^farion, Doddridge, Lewis, Randolph, Upshur, Tay­lor, Barbour, Preston, Braxton, Gilmer, Tucker and Monongahela. That area just about covers the north central section of the State—hence our official Club name—The N.D. Club of Cent. W. Va. 
—ANDY SLEIGH, SR., Secy. 

Cincinnati 
W BOB BOMKAMP represented the club at the Presidents Council, held at Notre Dame in June, which was attended by officers from 68 local alumni clubs from various sections of the nation. During his visit to the University he presented the Club's 52,000 check to JIM ARMSTRONG for the Scholarship Fund. 
New officers are: JOHN CRONIN, Vice-Presi­dent; JIM BARTLETT, Treasurer; STEVE HEE­KIN, Secretary. 
—BOB BOMKAMP, Pres. 

^Cleveland 
T. EDWARD CAREY, *34, is the newly elected President of the Notre Dame Club of Cleveland succeeding CREIGHTON MILLER. Ed's {ellow officers are: RAY T. MILLER, JR., '51, Vice-President, DENNIS J. P. O'NEILL, '51, Secretary, and JOHN R. MENDENHALL, '50, Treasurer. JOHN J. REIDY, *27, \vas named Honorary Presi­dent. Appointed to the Club's Board of Governors were GEORGE D. HAMMER, '52, ROBERT J. LALLY, '50, MICHAEL G. McGRATH, '51, 
I THOMAS E. McHALE, '50, CREIGHTON MILLER, '44, WILLUM J. VanROOY, '32, AUGUSTINE A. STEFANEK, '52, JAMES E. UPRICHARD, '33, and ARTHUR J. AVQOD, JR., '52. The REV. JAMES P. McDONOUGH, M.A. '48, has been named Club Chaplain and FRANCIS M- PAYNE, JR., '39, continues in the post of Membership Secretary. 
At the annual Rockne Afcmorial Breakfast in the Spring, DENNIS J. O'NEILL, '26, \vas hon­ored by the members as the Club's Notre Dame Man of the Year, HUGH M. O'NEILL, last year's recipient of the award made the presenta­tion. The REV. ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C., spoke at the memorial Afass and "SLEEPY JIM" CROW­LEY of Four Horseman fame, spoke at the Breakfast. 
The RT. REV. MSGR. iLVURICE F. GRIF­FIN, '{H, celebrated his 48ih year of ordination this June. Attending the celebration were some 40 priests who served as former assistants. Archbishop Edward F. Hoban of Cleveland joined the banquet honoring Msgr. Griffin. 
Betty and BOB LALLY are the proud parents 

DENVER—^The club's scholarship winner is Ronald J. Telk (center). From Ie£t to right: Eugene Blish, Telk and Arthur L. Andeison. 
of twin girls, numbers five and six in the young Lally clan. 
CHUCK ROHR, '30, demonstrated again his ex­cellence as a host at the Club's annual stag picnic held at Chuck's "R" farm. ART WOOD and GEORGE HAMMER were co-chairmen. 
Stories drUting back irom the Campus have it 

that our Creighton Miller played a representative game of golf over Burke Afemorial against Jimmy Dcmaret the weekend of the Old Timers game. That is to say our man won. 
RAY T. MILLER, JR., has been renominated for the third consecutive time as candidate for the Ohio House ot Representatives. Ray has served two terms in Columbus thus far. 
Plans have already been completed for the Club's annual golf party in August. Sleepy Hollow Coun­try Club has been selected as the site with JERRY AfcGRATH and GUS STEF^VNEK taking care of the arrangements. 
The dub's annual stag outing was held at Rohr's Farm on June 16 with alumni, present and former students and fathers of students in attendance. Events for the day included horseback riding, baseball, foot races, horseshoe pitching and a Softball game bct^%'een the *'OId Timers" and Re­cent Grads. 
PAT CANNY represented the dub at the recent Presidents Council held at Notre Dame which was attended by officers and rcprcseniativ-es from 68 local ND alumni clubs. Pat spoke to the group on the Rockne Anniversary Communion Breakfast. 
—DENNIS J. P. O'NEILL, Secy. 

Connecticut Valley 
Monday, April 9, \vas a day that will long be remembered by many Connecticut Notre Dame men, their families, and friends, for wc were priv­ileged to have the REVEREND THEODORE M. HESBURGH as the main speaker at our annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night. This was Father Hesburgh's first ^"isit to Connecticut, and the first time in over t^venty years that any president of the University has been to the state. Nearly 300 persons attended the statewide rccp­tion and dinner held in bis honor at the Hartford Club by the Connecticut Valley Club. 
Archbishop Henry J. O'Brien of the Archdiocese of Hartford and Governor Abraham A. Ribicoff were on hand to welcome Father Hesburgh to Con­necticut. Other guests included AtLxiliary Bishop John F. Hackett of Hartford; ^^onsignor Reilly, Vicar General of the Diocese of Nonvich; Father Carl Schcrer, club chaplain; and congressman Thomas J. Dodd. Judge Jim Murphy of New Haven acted as toastmaster. 
The proverbial dropping pin could be heard as a captt\-ated audience listened to Father Hesburgh discuss Notre Dame of the past, present, and "future. He pointed out that Notre Dame has the four qualities that make a university great: a great spirit, a great student body, a great faculty, and a good physical plant. Father Hesburgh also stressed that Notre Dame has alwaj-s attempted to train the indi^^dual to be a good man, no matter what his chosen field of endeavor. 
Another highlight of the evening was the presen­tation of man of the year awards. "Hie president or another officer of each club announced the re­spective redpient, and Father Hesburgh presented the award. FATHER CARL SCHERER, dub chaplain, was our man of the year. 
This Universal Notre Dame Night celebration was successful due to the cflTorts of many, but a few men deser^-e spcdal recognition. HANK AfcGiVNN", general chairman, BILL WAELDNER on tickets, BOB DALTON on publidty, and JOHN ROBIN­SON on invited guests did a swell job. .ART McGEE, JOHN ROBINSON, and TLM MURPHY Were Very ambitious ticket sellers..- Our thanks also go to the Naugatuck, New Haven,' and Southwestern Alumni Clubs !or their aid m mak­ing this affair one for the books. 
At the last dub meeting, the following officers were dccted for the coming yean ART McGEE, president; H.ANK McG.ANN, vice-president; LOU BERGERON, secretary; and BILL WAELDNER, treasurer. For board of governors, JOHN ROBIN­SON . was appointed for three vcars, FR.ANK AHERN for two years, and DON McALANUS for one year. The dub took the first step in forming an auxiliary by appointing a committee comprised of Mrs. Frank iUiem, Mrs. Tim Mur­phy, Mrs. Bob Dalton, Mrs. Floyd Richards, Mi^. Joe Holbach, Mrs. Don McManus, and Mrs. John Robinson to act as a nudeus. 
—LOU BERGERON, Secy. 

Dallas 
The proposed activities of the Club for the current year are as follou's: Late August: Father and Son back to school meeting with football mo\*ie. September 21st: Rally Dance for the SMU Game. September 23rd: Bnmch for the Team. October 27th: Televie^ving of the Oklahoma Game. November: A Communion breakfast or supper. December: Annual Christmas Dance. January: Communion Supper or Breakfast. February or March: Universal Notre Dame Night. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 2956 23 
Annual dues arc now payable in the amount of 

$10.00. Make your checks payable to the Notre 
Bame Club of Dallas, and mail to W. B. KIRK, 
c/o Texas Bank & Trust Co., Dallas, Texas. 
Our ticket allotment for the Southern l^fethodtst 
game wlU be oa an equal basis to paid-up members. 
About the only other organization that might 

have plans bigger than those of the Notre Dame 
Club of Dallas is General Motors! . . . 

First meet the new club officers: JAKE REICH­ENSTEIN, JR., president; BILL GRADY and BILL LAJOIE, vice presidents; HAL TEHAN, sec­retary; and WILL KIRK, treasurer. . . . 
Recently announced in the local press was the award of a $2,400 Notre Dame Club of Dallas 4-ycar scholarship to Alvin C. Lostetter, June graduate of Jesuit High School. Lostetter had an average of 95.43 for seven semesters and was one of four Jesuit students to complete tlie National ^Icrit Scholarship cxaminationj. 
At Notre Dame, he will pursue a grncral arts course with a major in mathematics. . . . In case you don*t know by no%v . . . ARTHUR 
T. SIMPSON, Dallas insurance man, was named Man of the Year at the CIub*s Universal Notre Dame Night obscr\-ance last April. Simpson grad­uated from Notre Dame in 1901. 
Present and key speakers on Universal Night %vere Coach TERRY BRENNAN and the Rev. ALFRED MENDEZ, student aid director. . . . 
We hope many of you arc planning to attend the ND-SMU football game here on September 22nd. We can guarantee you a weekend the likes of >s-hich you haven't witnessed since you left the campus! 
—BUDDY GOLDM.AX 

Dearborn 
The club held a general meeting on June 1 at Tom Tucker's. The 1946 Football Highlights film was shown at the aiTair. The annual family picnic was held on Sunday, June 10, at Lc\*agood Park. The Committee consists of: PETE KER­NAN, GENE RHEAUME and JERRY CASS, 
President CLEM CONSTANTINE attended the Presidents Council, held at Notre Dame in June for officers from 68 local clubs in \'arious parts of the nation. 
On May 20, the Dcartom Club held its seventh annual Communion Breakfasts The club was hon­ored to have REV. JAMES DOLL, C.S.C., staff member of Lobund, celebrate Mass at St. Bcma­dette's Church and give the principal address after the breakfast at Dearborn Inn. We all enjoyed Father Doll's talk on "The De%'clopment and Progress of Lobund." Chairman CLEM CON­STANTINE, '44, and his committee, LARRY DOLAN. '47, and R.\Y DEFAU^V, *47, did a fine job with the arrangements. The newly elected club officers were introduced and the annual past president's plaque was awarded to JERRY \VAYNO, *47. 
JERRY G.ASS, '48, had a new idea for the 

June 10 Family Picnic The $1 admission was 
charged each couple with a 25c deduction for 
each child. The club paid 25c per child for five 
or more. The families of JERRY SARB, '49, and 
GEORGE TOBIN, '48, received refunds, while 
the JACK COURTNEY, '50. family attended 
without cliargc due to the arrival of daughter No. 
4, Ann Frances, on May 14. There were games, 
prizes, refreshments and no child went home 
without a prize. 
—JACK COURTNEY, '50, Scci". 

Delaware 
M. HARRY MILLER recently retired from the Legal Department, Dupont de Nemours. 
F. SWEENEY TUCK is working with C. F. Braun as a Contract engineer on the multi-million dollar Tidewater Oil Refinery project. 
HARRY BURGER recently was appointed Vice President of Gates Engineering, coating protective manufacturers. 
DR. AVILLIARD ANZILOTTI's son Keith has been accepted for the Fall term st the University. JOHN SETTER raited with us recently and is now attending Medical School. 
AVM. BAILEY, SR., is rather proud of his son. Bill, who graduated with honors this June and is going on to Law School. 
DR. DON KILLIAN was appointed Director of Sales, DuPont de Nemours. —ALEX A. PETRILLO, Secy.-Treas. 
Detroit 
The cliib*5 annual golf party was held on June 26 at the Western Golf and Country Club. ERNIE GARGARO ser\'ed as chairman. 
(Ed. Note: President JIM BYRNE attended the Presidents Coundl held at Notre Dame in June for ofHccrs from 68 local alumni clubs in \-arioU5 parts of the nation. Jim gave an excellent presen­tation to the group of Detroit's *Fricndly Foes Party' at one of the sessions, JC). 
Erie 
ci 

The Erie, Pennsylvania, Notre Dame Club has 1 renewed its custom of haWng a "First Friday • Club." The members and their wives attend Mass on the first Friday at their convenience and then we all meet and have dinner at our meeting. The first diimer and meeting was held on March 2, 1956, Friday, at "Sedler's" with about thirty ' present. At our second meeting (April) we elected the following officers. ; 
President: JOHN S. YOUNG (BSEE 1951); Vice-t* President: JOSEPH T. STADLER (BSC 1953);,! Treasurer: JAMES E. MAHONEY (BSPhE 1951); Secretary: THOMAS J. McCARTHY (LLB 1950). 
The Alumni and their wives that usually attend these "First Friday Meetings" are Mr. and Mrs. i JOSEPH BARBER (AB 1935), Mr. and Mrs. I ROBERT A. BARBER (BSC 1940), Mr. and Mrs. I LEO BRUGGER (AB 1934), Mr. and Mrs. DON-i ALD C. BUSECK (LLB 1955), LOUIS CAV-! ANAUGH, Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD D. DALEY ; (PhBJour 1917), Mr. and Mrs. JOHN DUCATO, ' Mr. and Mrs. WILLUM F. GRANT (BSC 1947), | Mr. and Jlfrs. OLIVER HUNTER (CL 1943), ' JAMES MAHONEY (BSPhE 1951), Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. McCORMICK (PhBC 1953), Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD T. McCORMICK (BSC 1955), JOSEPH T. STADLER (BSC 1953), Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES J. HTtTMAN (PhB Com 1931), Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL R. YARBENET (BSC 1947), Mr. and Mrs. JOHN S. YOUNG (BSEE 1951), Mr. and Mrs. ANTHONY J. ZAMBROSKI (BSPhyEd 1952). 
Our fifth "First Friday Club" meeting was held i in July at Culbertson Hills Golf and Country-^ Club. This was an all-day afTair with a golf M tournament, dinner, and dancing. 
—TOM MCCARTHY, Secy. 

Evansville 
The Notre Dame Club of E\-ansville held a business meeting In the Marine Room of the Knights of Columbus Club on Thursday, May 31. Suggestions for the year's activities were discussed . and plans were finalized for a golf and bridge J' outing the latter part of June. ^ 
—JOE TEMBORIUS, Secy. 

Fort Lauderdole 
The Notre Dame Club of Fort Lauderdale held its regular monthly meeting on Thursday, May 
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA—A large group of alumni and guests attended the dub's Universal Notre Dame Night dmner. 
24 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
CHICAGO—Seventeen of the twenty-nine Board of Governors of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago met recently at the Chicago Athletic Association for their monthly meeting. They are from left to right (clockwise aromid the table): Francis J. Milligan, Jr. '45, first vice 2 president; James T. Gallagher, '29; James T. Doyle, '31, treasurer; William S. Allen, '21; guest Dam'e! Hardin II, '53; Philip J. Faccenda, '51, secretary; Hugh E. Mulligan, '50; Roger B. AVhite, '50; James L. Fcrstel, '48; John J. O'Shaughnessy, '33; James D. Haggerty, '52; Frank G. Matavosky, '35; Kenneth G. Enright, Jr. *48; Donald J. Hogan, '42; James F. Conway, Jr. '42; William M. Hickey, '42; Thomas 
D. Nash, Jr. '42; Recording Secretary Miss Mary Merrion; and President Robert Emmett Wright, '42. 
10, I95G, at the Governors* Club Hotel. This was the alternate monthly meeting to u-hich the ladies were invited. 

^ Wc had a turnout of about 45 and, in the ab­sence of JOHN SULLIVAN from the city, GEORGE ERNST, Class of *29, our Vice-President, was in charge. 
Inasmuch as the ladies ^verc -pxtstni^ there ivas no business conducted. We enjoyed a dinner of delicious roast chicken, accompanied by a choice domestic wine, and followed by a serving of the Danish pastry of your choice. 

BOB GORE gave a report on our State Con­vention to those few members of the Club who were unable to attend. We have already schcd­^ uled May 3rd for the date of next year's Conven­^ tion, but no reserv*ations are being accepted yet. Our faithful Chaplain, MSGR. ALLAIS, was on hand to perform his duties. FRANK McDON-OUGH, *4I, brought Bob Rainier of Ralm'er Real Estate as a guest, and we hope to have Bob on our roles as an honorary member before long. —RICHARD T. ^VHALEN, Seo'. 
Fort Wayne 

j^ The club's annual stag picnic for alumni, stu' 
' dents and incoming freshmen was held at O'Rourkc's. Alumni and guests enjoyed softball, touch football, volley ball, croquet, cards and re­freshments. 
Hiawathaland 

The club's UND Night meeting featured a talk i by Professor WALTER L/\NGFORD of the Notre '' Dame faculty. Fifty-five alumni, their wives and guests attended the affair. TOM PLOUFF was named Man-of-the-Year and new ofHcers arc as follows: ROBERT F. VOELKER, president; PAUL 
D. STACK, vice-president; and JOHN K. PLOUFF, secretar>'-treasurer. 
Jackson 
The Notre Dame Club of Jackson had its first annual Notre Dame Mulligan Stag on May 29 with assistant football coach BILL FISCHER as guest 
speaker. Bill showed \*arious Notre Dzune films. 
la addition to Mulligan stew, the piece de re­
sistance, other refreshments were also available. 
The stag was held at the Knights of Columbus 
Hall in Jackson with RAY UTTER and JACK 
BULLINGER as co-chairmen. It was open to 
the pubb'c and approximately 100 attended. At 
the present time, the total membership of the club 
consists of 65 people. The next function will be 
a picnic for members and their wives some time 
in August. 
—ED COLBERT, Secy. 
Joiiet 
The big news from this 1955 AU-American Award City at this time is, of course, the club's obser^'­ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Appropri­ately more than enough, our principal speaker was former All-Amerlcan BILL FISCHER, varsity line coach. 

About 200 alumni and friends enjoyed the pro­gram MC'd this year by our FRANCIS DUNN, prominent local attorney. High spot of the eve­ning was the presentation by DAN KENNEDY, President, of the coveted Afan of the Year Award to WALTER J. VOrriK, popular prexy of the club for *55. 
Accompanying Coach Fischer and helping to make the program a success were DICK FITZ­GERALD, DICK PRENDERGAST and our own BOB COYNE from the Fighting Irish. Wc uere also \ionoTcd and pleased to have viiih us, STEVE JUZWIK, former All-f\mcrican great and pres­ently head coach at Chicago's ^Vcbcr High School. 
General chairmen for the affair were: D.AN KENNEDY, President; DOMINIC BOETTO, \ice president; BOB GORSKI, secretary-; FRED HENEGHANf treasurer; and our faithful chaplain, REV. FABL\N DONL\N, O.Carm. 
Other members working on the program were: Tickets—JOSEPH STENGELE, EDWARD H, KING and L.\\VRENCE WEINBROD; Dinner Arrangements—JOSEPH ADLER, JOHN KIN­SELLA and JIM PARTHUN; Transportation— CHARLES BROWN and RAYMOND TRIZNA; PubUdty—JOHN MINZING and JOHN CO.MER­FORD. 
—RICK MCCARTHY 

Kalomozoo 
Election of Club officers was held at the Kfarcb 14th meeting at the Knights of Columbus Hall in Kalamazoo. The following were elected: PAUL O'CONNELL, BSC '44, President, I5I5 Kingston, Kalamazoo, Michigan; BOB SHIELDS, '35, Pres-Elect, 1822 Grand Ave., Kalamazoo, Michigan; JOHN PRIHODA , BSC '49, Secretary, 4025 Naz­areth Road, Kalamazoo, Michigan; GIL GAUDIE, BSC '31, Treasurer, 1237 Lakeway, Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
Our UND night dinner was held April 16th at the Burdick Hotel in Kalamazoo. ED DOTY served as toastmaster. The Rev. Thomas J. O'Donncll, associate director of the Notre Dame Foundation, was the guest speaker. Afemberx, wives and guests numbered 90. 
The annual Summer outing will be held at the Gull Lake Country Club on Tuesday, July 31st. This outing has proved to be a great success in the past years. 
Committee Chairmen for 1956 are: Program— 

BOB SHIELDS; Membership—EUGENE R. STEN­
DER; Finance—JAMES MAHONEY; Religion and 
Citizenship—AUSTIN DOYLE; PubUdiy—JOHN 
GOONEN. 
—JOHN PRIHODA. Secy. 

Kentucky 
May 17 ivas the first business meeting mider the new Club Officers. A meeting of Foundation Governor, JOE DONALDSON and City Founda­tion Chairman, DAVE SCHOEN, and their Com­mittee was also held in May. 
The Club's Second Quarterly Corporate Com­munion Sunday was observed on June 3rd at St. Mary Magdalen's Church. After Mass a break­fast ^%'as served in the school. That afternoon Notre Dame men gathered under the Notre Dame^ Club of Kentucky Banner and marched in the Corpus Christ! procession. 
A dinner meeting at Richmond Boat Club is^ being planned for June. Notre Dame students and '56 grads are to be guests of the Club. 
On July 4lh the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky and XaWer University Alumni Club will again hold their annual summer outing at the Idle Hour Club. One of the highlights of the day wJU be the traditional softball game betu'een NJ>. an^ 
Notrf Dame Alumnus^ August^ J956 2S 
X.U. Alumni. JOE HARMON, JR., is in charge of arrangements for the Xoirc Dame Club. 
The annual Kick-Ofl Mfctinir for the Club's 

Football trips will be August I6th. Prospective 
students and their dads are invited to attend. A 
monc will be shown of the University's Football 
Highlights of 1955, and a buffet supper will 
be 5cr\'cd. 
President JOE HARMON' attended the Notre 

Dame Alumni Presidents' meeting on the campus 
this June. Our President was invited by the 
.Alumni Oflicc to speak to the group of presidents, 
—BH.L PALMER, Scc>-. 


Mohawk Valley 
Our organization celebrated Universal Notre 

Dame Night with a dinner dance held at "The 
Becclies," Rome. New York. There were some 75 
people in attendance consisting of Alumni, Fatlle^^ 
and Mothers of Undergraduates and Friends of 
the Club and the University. 
The following officers were installed for the com­

ing year: President, DR. D.^NIEL C. SH,\UGH­
NESSY, 115 Green Street. Herkimer, Xew York; 
Vice-President, L. D^VXIEL CALL;\N, 62 Pearl 
Street, New Hartford, N. Y.; Secretar>"-Trcasurcr, 
A. CHARLES HITZELBERGER, JR., 1535 Oneida Street, Utica, New York. 
The wives o[ the Aiumni, and others were also in attendance and we had a wonderful evening at the "Beedies." 
,\iumn! attending were: ANTHONY GIRU7.7.I, CHARLES HITZELBERGER, DR. F. A. M.\­RLVO, TO.\f RE.\GA.\, NICK KAUFF.NfAN, DR. 
A. W. PERESKE, BOB PURCELL, GEORGE H,\MELINE. JIM McCANN, FR.\NK DONALTi", DR. D. C. SKAUGHNESSY, LOUIS CLARK, DAN CALLAN. 
—ED(MRD J. St\-EE.VEV 

Naugatuck Valley 
The club's fourth annual family picnic was held Sunday, June 24, at Lake Conipance, Bristol, Conn. BILL OUTER and -NLAURICE NOONAN scr\'ed as co-cliairmen. 
Officers for the forthcoming vear are as follous; JAMES J. SCIGLLANO, Waterbur>-, president; FR^VNK JACOBS, Torringion, vice-president; NORB HEXEBRY. AVatcriiurv-, secretary; and WILLL\M DWTER. Watcrbur>% treasurer. 
THOMAS P. EAG.AN, Waterbur>-, Conn., the immediate past \'ice-p res! dent, was awarded the club's Man-of-thc-Year scroll on Universal Notre Dame Night, April 9. Tom was introduced to the audience by Bert Hencbrv" and the presentation was made by Father Hcsburgh \vho was honored guest and principal speaker of tlic occasion. 
Tlie club is sponsoring the fifth annual football excursion on November 3, 1956, from Watcrbury to Baltimore for the Notre Dame-Naw game. Henebr>- and FRASK MURN.-VNE are in cliarge of the affair. Game tickets will not be sold sep­arately but round trip railroad tickets or package deals (game and railroad) may he purchased. Res­er\'ations may be made at any of the following: Watcrbury—Bert Hcnebrj'—Phone 3-6625 or 5-4515; Jim Scigliano—5-5090 or 5-0112; and Frank Mur­nane—5-0026; Naugatuck—Don Zchndcr—Phone 
P.A 9-8686; Southington and Meridcn—George Kloss ^Phone Market 8-5647; Torrington and Winsted— Tom Eagan—Phone Frontier 9-2905; and Ansonia and Derby—^Ed Canary-. Tlie game ticket and round trip railroad ticket total cost for adults is S26.50. For children under 12 years it is $17.50. Advance sale closes on July 10 and a $10 deposit is required to guarantee reser\'ations. 
A farewell dinner was civcn in honor of BILL .\NDRES at tlic Wavcrly Inn on May 17, Bill, who has been Foundation chairman for the past eight years, will be located in Chicago where his company has recently moved. Principal speaker at the affair was Rev. John J. Sullivan, former club chaplain. 
—BERT HEXEBRY 

New York City 
On Friday, May 26, the club held its annual ilay dance in the Forest Hills Inn. TIic dance is dedicated to the distaff side of the Notre Dame family and was under the cliairmanshlp of AL LESMEZ. Other members of the committee in­cluded JOHN MARTIN, JACK \nETOFF, BOB REALE, ANDY BURKE and BILL O'CON'NOR. About 200 Notre Dame men and their ladies at­tended and aside from the noticeable presence of graying hair, and a few creaking joints during the 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
FORT WAYNE—Father Hcsburgh spoke at a dinner for prominent industrialists and busi­ness leaders in Fort \Vayne, Donnelly P. McDonald (right) served as ^ toastmaster of the affair. 
faster numbers, it was truly reminiscent of the the city at that time we hope tliey'll join us out Sophomore Cotillion or the Senior Ball. at Rockville for a full day of real enjoyment. Notre Dame night at Ebbets Field is the next JIM HE.VNY is the chairman for this big event. 
event on the calendar and it was lield on July 2 
The tentative calendar of events for the re­
featuring the ine%'itable doncgal between the Brookl>'n Dodgers and the New York Giants. A 
mainder of 1956 is as follows: buffet supper was 5cr%'cd to 200 in the Dodger August: Golf Outing. ^ Club House prior to tlic start of the ball game. September 9: Smoker and Board Meeting. ^^ Unfortunately, we must limit the supper to this September 19: KickofT Meeting. number because of the restrictions of space and October 24; Board Meeting. we've had to turn back a substantial number of re­October 31: Trust Fund. quests for tickets during past years. This has November 3: Na%y Trip. developed into one of our most successful activities. November 14: Board Meeting. "BUD" MULVEY was chairman of the event, ably November 21: Nominators Meeting. assisted by our former president JOHN DUFFY. December 5: Board Meeting. The two Sets of Laetare Vestments tills year were December 9: Communion CrcakLial. given to a couple of brand new parishes. Our (Ed. Note: President TON^* E.\RLEY attended Saviour Parish under the pastonhip of Msgr. the Presidents Council, held at Notre Dame i"^, McMahon was the recipient in the Archdiocese of Juncj and gave an cxccilent talk to the rcprcsenta-" New York, Incidentally, our Club House is in­tivcs from 68 alumni clubs on New York's Laetare cluded within the boundaries of this new parish. Vestment presentation. JC). The newly established parish of Pius X was selected 
—TONY EARLEY, JR., Prtis. 

in the Brooklyn Diocese. It's located in Plainview, Long Island, and believe it or not, Mass is said in an abandoned bam, Tlie rectory is a new split level 

North Florida 
home in the middle of a housing development and the pastor's next door neighbor has requisitioned The regular monthly meeting of the North his clothes line for her children's diapers. Florida Notre Dame Club was held on May 23, 
The golf outing is scheduled for August 16 at 1956. DICK BRODEUR, the president, presided RockviIIc Country Club in RockviIIc Center, Long and gave a report on the state meeting of the Island. If any of the alumni arc planning to be in Notre Dame Alumni held at Fort Lauderdale in 
« 

. April. JERRY JOHNSON, sccretar>- and treasurer. A made his treasurer's report including a report on tlie Universal Notre Dame Night banquet. 
JOE HARTZER was elected vice president to fill the vacancy created by BILL KIRSCHNER's move to Neuark, NCK Jersey. AL KESSING was elected chairman of the first annual summer picnic to be held on .-Vugust I2th for members of the club and their families. 
It A^-as decided that the regular monthly meet­ings of the club would be discontinued during the summer months. Tlie next meeting will be our second annual Friendly Foes gathering in Septcm­

^ bcr. JOE HARTZER was also selected as chair­
- man for this event which proved to be very suc­
cessful last vear. —JOHN F. CORRIGAN, Secy. 
Oklahoma City 
The club's Mav ujceling was held at WALTER DUNCAN'S and JOE McNULTV's new I'ep.i Cola plant. It was a nice turnout and the first time that members had ever seen a Pepsi machine pro­

% duce what is commonly known as beer in most 
taverns. 
The June 4 meeting was held at McFarland's club house adjacent to the Lake .-Xir Drive Inn. The club now meets the first Monday evening 
of each month at 8 p.m. 

(Editor's note: CHARLES AfcFARLAND repre­sented the club at the Presidents Conference held on the Notre Dame campus in June. He gave an excellent presentation of the Oklalioma City's "Boy­of-the-Year" award. The meeting was attended by local alumni club presidents from 68 Notre Dame organizations througtiout the countr\-—JC). 

Oregon 

The Oregon Alumni Club observed Universal Notre Dame Night with a get-together at the Uni­versity Club in Portland on April 7. BILL SCH.Mm' was the principal speaker. About 50 members were present. 
Election of officers was held with the following results: HUGH L.\CEY, JR., president; PHIL ME.\NEY, vice-president; PETE S.VNDROCK, sec­retary-; and MOREY CONWAY, treasurer. ART 
^BUTINE and BOB HE.\LY were elected to the board of directors. (Ed. Note: The University appreciated having 
PETE S.VNDROCK back for the President's Coun­cil as a representative of the Oregon Club. This meeting was attended by officers from 68 local alumni clubs in various sections of the nation. JC). 
—PETE SANDROCK, Scc>-. 


Peoria 
Tlic I*coria Club celebrated Universal Notre Dame Night on April 26 at Vonacen's Junction ii'hich h a ncu-TCii:ntr:i.nt that recently opened in the city. D.WE CONDON, '44, sports editor of the "Wake of the News" column in the Chicago Tribune, was the evening's principal speaker. DR. CLARENCE WARD, outgoing president, 5cn,-ed as chairman of the event. The club unveiled the Ennio .-Xrboit ^temorial Trophy which is to be awarded each fall to the higli school football cham­pion of the Greater Peoria area. Ennio, before his untimely death in California, coached at Spalding. Mrs. Arboit came from California for the meeting. Over 200 attended the dinner which was one of the largest crowds and the best UND Night celebra­tions the club has ever experienced. Other speak­ers of the evening were Kcv. Edward Farrell, a close friend of Ennio, and Kenny Jones, sports editor of the Peoria Journal-Star. 
—JOE L.\NGTON 


Philadelphia 
WALTER GROTHAUS was picnic cliairman for the big event on June 14th. It was the Club's first p/cm"c and was held at the Main Line Golf Club in Radnor, Pa. There was golf, a Softball game between the alumni and the students, a spe­cially prepared roast beef dinner, beer and lots of fun for all. 
^VALT RIDLEY and CHARLEY CONLEY have started distributing our 1955 rafHe books. The prizes arc lops and we expect this to be our biggest source of income for the year. 
For our first Fali mcctms on Tuesday, Septem­ber Uih, chairman J.ACK DEMPSEY is planning a big program. The students, including the new freshmen will be given a real send-off party. 
ILVROLD DUKE is working on a day or eve­ning at a Philadelphia Eagles Pro Football Game. ^\•ith VINCE McNALLY as their manager, HUGHIE DEVOR£ their coach, and DON 
JOLIET—Line Coach Bill Fischer was the club*s guest speaker on Universal Notre Dame Night. Seated, left to right: Dick Prendergast, Fischer, Father Fabian Donlon, and Club Secretary Bob Gorski. Standing, left to right: Robert Coj-ne, Dick Fitzgerald, Treasurer Fred Hencghan, President Dan Kennedy, Vice-President Dominic Boetto and Steve Juzwik. 
SCH.\EFER, a new member of the team, wc owe 
them a lot of support. 
Wc will be going to Baltimore on November 3rd 

to sec the N.D. vs. Navy game. JOHN VOIT 
is making plans to run a special train to that 
game for all our members and friends. 
During the Fall season the Philadelphia Club 

will have a table reserved for lunch one day each 
week at a downtown hotel. No advance reser\-a­
tlons will be necessary-. All Notre Dame men will 
be welcome. For details call BILL BURNS 
GA 6-7720. 
JOHN NEESON, chairman for Communion Sun­

day on December 9lh, wants to make this date one 
of the most prominent on our 1956 schedule. 
Wc have already talked to the students about 

a Christmas dance. There are no details yet 
available but we will have some information on 
hand by September. 
—BILL BURNS, Pres. 


Phoenix 
The followini; men were elected officers of the -Votre Dame Club of Phoenix for the 1956-1957 term: 
A. CARLTON GILBERT, '49, President. 4(H2 E. Indianola, Phoenix; PAUL RIST, Vice-President, '30, 6815 Linda Lane, Phoenix; GEORGE MARK­HAM, Secretary, '49, 3033 -N'o. 17 Ave., Phoenix 42; RALPH BRUNEAU, Treasurer, '30. 330 E. AK-arado, Phoenix; JOHN' GILLSON", '32, Board of Directors, 2445 E. Howard, Phoemx. 
(Ed. Note: TED O'.MALLEY represented the club at the Presidents Council held on campus in June which was attended by club ofiicers from 68 alumni orgaoizatiotis}. 
—GEORGE MARKH.AM, Secy. 

Pittsburgh 
Our annual Golf Party will again be held at the 

Butler Country Club on September 13, 1956. GENE 
COYNE who has done such a magnificent Job 
chairmanning the last few golf outings, will again 
be chairman. The guest of honor will be MOOSE 
KR.-\USE. 
Following an afternoon of golf, there will be 
3 banquet at which some lucky person wJU win 
an all-expense trip to the Oklahoma game. The 
winner of the trip wjll be chosen through the 
medium of our annual rafUc. Co-chairmen of the 
rafHe are JOE LANG and CHARLIE CHRISTI.VN. 
We are continuing the weekly luncheons at the 
Variety Club in the William Penn Hotel on Thurs­
days, and any alumni ^vho may be in our fair city 
are cordially invited to attend. 
Our President, LEO VOGEL, JR., attended the Presidents Council on the campus recently, and has returned with an enthusiastic report of the meeting. 
~}IM .McLAUGHLD.\ Secy. 


Rochester 
The summer season is now upon us. .^ full slate of activities has been scheduled for the Notre Damers in the Rochester area. June 23 highlighted the social season with a dance at the Rldgemont Country Club. It was an informal affair and a large group turned out. 
The officers of the club in order to help for­mulate policy have appointed an executive council. This council consists of AL ROCHE, BILL BELL, JOE GER.-\GHTY, BOB ODEXBACH, CHARLIE O'BRIEN. DICK SULLIVAN, JACK HE.\GNEY, LEO WESLEY and TOM HIGGINS. Tlie council will aid in planning all club activities. 
Several Rochesterians returned to Notre Dame for class reunions. Amont; those were JOE FLYNN, AL ROCHE, VINCE SULLIVAN, WALT MURPHY, DR. JOHN KEEG.AN, JOHN NOR­TON, TOM ME.\GHER and DR. LEO HOF­SCHNEIDER. All reported having a wonderful time and an.\io«sIv awaiting the next five-vear reunion. 
Six recent graduates, SIDNEY AVILKIN. FR.-\NK a\PPELLINO, D.W^ DAVIN, BOB KEEG.\N, RALPH KETNER and R.\Y SCHLITZER were welcomed to the club as alumni members. 
Wedding bells have sounded recently for GEIUIY SCHOENHERR and his bride the former Arlcne Costigan. They were married Saturday, June 9, and plan to make their home In Dayton, Ohio. 
President MCK DUFFEY attended the Presi­dents Council held at Notre Dame in June for representatives from 6S local alumni clubs in all sections of the nation. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 27 
Rockford 
Notre Dame Alumni Club of Rockford obscr\-cd the Universal Notre Dame Night at the Hotel Faust on the evening of May 2nd. 1956. EDWARD 
W. "MOOSE" KRAUSE, Athletic Director at the University, ^vas the guest speaker. Ed gave the gathering of some 150 alumni and friends of the University an excellent report of the progress and new developments at the University. He also gave a brief, but realistic, picture of the football outlook for the 1956 season at Notre Dame. 
ALBERT a\RROLL of the class of 1922 and treasurer of the Rockford Club ^^•as selected the "Man of the Year" for his outstanding work in club actinties, leadership in the business field, and exemplary- Catholic family life. 
KARL BRENNAN, secrctari- of the club and a member of the Scholarship Committee, has been transferred to Oil Cit>% Penns^'K-ania, as Manager of the W. T. Grant store in that city. Because of this change. Club President FRANK S\VEENEY appointed PHIL C\REY as Secretary of the club and }ACK. SULLIVAN as a member of the Schol­arship Committee. 
CHARLES P.-\ULER, Vice-President and Director of the Club, is moving to LaPorte, Indiana, and DR. FELIX LO^^'NIK of Freeport has been ap­pointed to serve in this position. 
—PHIL aAREY, Secy. 
Rome, Italy 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated by Notre Dame Alumni, families and friends at Notre Dame International School for Bovs in Rome on the night of April 2ath, 1956. 
Hosts were the Brothers of Holy Cross with BROTHER LOYOLA CHRISTOPH, C.S.C., Head­master of Notre Dame School, welcoming the guests. 
Im-ited as principal speaker, the VERY RE\^ CHRISTOPHER OTOOLE, C.S.C., Superior 
•General of the Congregation of Holy Cross, was unable to attend. In a cordial letter Father O'Toole delegated FATHER ED^VARD L. HES­TON, C.S.C., Procurator General of the Congrega­tion, to address the gathering. Father Heston made his theme the contribution that Notre Dame "University is making to foster genuine Catholic culture in the modem world. 
Demonstrating the traditional Notre Dame family spirit, the evening %vas programmed as an informal buffet supper with a non*Roman dish taking the spotlight: Baked Beans. 
Gathering in the student dining-room, a piano was rolled in and all let out w-ith The \^ciory March. As a volume builder one side of the din­ing room was pitted against the other to outdo the other. To induce the full spirit of combat -one side w*a5 labelled Notre Dame and the other (not Southern Methodist) but "St. MaryV! 
N.D. campus stories were swapped and a picture was snapped bv none other than "Grace Kelly's doctor^' (DR. JERRY HORN, cx-N.D.) who is a medico stationed aboard the S.S. Constitution which brought the Princess over. 
A special feature of the celebration was a "mat­
inee" staged especially for ex-Notre Dame students ivho are presently seminarians at North American College in Rome. Thes-j men were able to stay on (before their holy curfew) long enough to meet and mingle with early arrivals of the evcnincf. 
The roster reads: REV. EDWARD L. HESTON, C.S.C., and 17 other priests, seminarians and 
brothers of Holy Cross—F.\THERS XfAHONEY and O'ROURKE, O.P. (Alumni)—PROFESSOR PAUL BOSCO, Dcpt. Modem Languages, N.D. and LOUIS BOSCO, N.D. Junior.—^trs. EDELE MILLER and four daughters together with her sister. Miss K.\TE K.\NALEY—^frs. ^fARY KOESTER and three sons—Mrs. MARY NfACKEY and MARY WATERS—Dr. JERRY HORN, M.D. —JOHN KREUGER, Alumnus and writer on Rome Daily American-VINCENT Mc\LOOX, Alumnus. 
The North American Seminary men were: Messrs. CRO^\'E, JAMES, MULLINS (son of "Moon") and STEWART. 
Arri\-als in Rome on the day of the "Night" —and who attended-were ROBERT and Mrs. ETTELBRICK. 
—\TNCE MoVLOON 
Saginaw Valley 
The officers elected on UND Night were as follows: AMLLIAM A. HENDRICK, '44, President; VINCENT BOYLE, '49, Vice-President; ROBERT 
"W. ASTTCHGER, '40, Secretary-Treasurer. Board of Directors: GERALD CVRROLL, Bay City, 

:28 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
OKLAHOMA CITY—The club's 'Boy of the Year' award was given to Jack H. Darling (center) by Dr. Albert Drescher, Chairman, while Bbhop Eugene J. McGuinness observes the presentation. 
Michigan, and THO.\^\S SINCLAIR, Midland, Michigan (two years); Holdover Directors: THOM­AS VanAARLE, Saginaw, Michigan, and AL BAUMGARTEN, Saginaw, Michigan. 

BILL HENDRICK and CARL DOOZAN at­tended the Presidents Council, held at Notre Dame in June, at which were representatives from 68 ND alumni clubs from various sections of the nation. 
Salina 
President BOB MoVULIFFE represented the club at the Presidents Conference held at Notre Dame in June. This meeting was attended by ofScers from 68 local alumni clubs in \-arious sections of tlic nation. 
The club is making plans for the annual foot­ball trip this year and has hopes of attending tlic Oklahoma-Notre Dame game. 
The annual chicken dinner attended by alumni and wives is scheduled to be held at tlic famous Brookficld Hotel in July. At the last report, the club scliolarship fund now totals slightlv over $1,000. 
—AL SCHWARTZ 

San Diego 
San Diego alumni held their annual June Com­munion Breakfast on June 3 with WALTER C. STEFFEN, *40, chairman of the event. Tlic club chaplain, RT. REV. MSGR. FIUVNCIS C. OTT. 
'17, celebrated the Afass at Blessed Sacrament Church. A group of 25 was present for the break­fast and brief business meeting which followed at the Lafayette IIoteL 
Tentative plans for the club's summer schedule called for a beach party and a picnic. HO^VARD BEILSTEIN, '47, was recruited to chairman the beach party. 
San Diego's most well-attended Universal Notre Dame Night banquet requires an attendance cor­rection from the last issue of the ALUMNUS. ­Due to JOHN C^\CKLEY*s deadline, we reported^ 40 in attendance based on early rcser\'atIons. The final tally, however, was 68. 
San Diego alumni initiated a commencement award at St. Augustine I Ugh Sdiool to go to the graduating monogram winner with the highest scholastic average. Presentation of the first award was made June 7 to Dar%vin F. Dapper. By a happy happenstance. Dapper will enter Notre Dame in the fall to bring San Diego's enrollment at the university to 10. 
(Ed. Note: Harry Monalian attended the Presi-^ dents Conference, held at Notre Dame in June " for heads of local alumni clubs, and gave an ex­cellent report of San Diego*s Appreciation Night Dinner to representatives from 68 alumni clubs. JC) 
—HARRY MONAHAN, Pres. 

South Central Wisconsin 
Universal Notre Dame Night was celebrated in ^fadi5on with a dinner featuring a talk by LARRY "MOON" MULLINS, athletic director for ^rar--J <juettc University. Moon is well knoivn in the 
^ sports field and was an outstanding football player at Notre Dame during the Rockne era. The dinner 
•was held at the Nakoma Country Club and guests who attended included Marquette alumni in this area as well as church and state ofHcials. Flans for this year include the annual summer outing -which will be held at one of the golf clubs in the ver>' near future. 
Ne\\r oHicen elected were as follows: PAUL BRANNAN, president; THOM/VS FROST, vice-president; and F. LAWRENCE LENZ, sccretary­treasurer. 

• PAUL BRANNAN attended the Presidents Coun­cil, held at Notre Dame in June, for representa­tives of 68 ND local alumni clubs. 
—LARRY LENZ 
St. Joseph Valley 
Under the general chairmanship of President BILL GIBBONS, the club again sponsored a suc­cessful Old Timers vs. Varsity football game for 

X the benefit of the scholarship fund. The two %vin­
™ ners of club scholarships this year, ivho \vill enter Notre Dame in September, are DAVE FIXLER, Riley High School, and MIKE LAUGHLIN, St. Joseph High School. Fixler received the full scholarship while Laughlin was a%varded a part-scholarship. The judges, who selected the winners after much deliberation, were: JUDGE ELMER PEAK, OTTO PF/VFF, PAUL CLARK, PAUL KELSAY and WILLLVM BRODERICK. The Scholarship Committee was composed of: FRANK MILES, chairman; FRANCIS JONES, JAMES E. ARMSTRONG. CH.VRLES SAVEENEY and JIM 
0 MEEHAN. 
DICK RILEY and TOM SHEEHAN co-chair-manned a fine golf outing, held on the Burke Me­morial Course, June 20, %vhich was the club's highlight event of the summer. Golf prizes as well as many door prizes were a^vardcd to many winners. Alumni and non-alumni guests also enjoyed horseshoe pitching, swimming, archery and an excellent dinner seri'cd outdoors. 


St. Louis 

^ Our club activities got off to a good start on May 30th with our annual picnic This year's Committee of TOM McGUIRE, Chairman, MAL­COLM DOOLEY and DAN SULLI\'.VN chose the Ivanhoe Lodge as the picnic site. The swimming, food, drink, the many fine attendance prizes and the special added attraction of ponies for the cliil­dren made the picnic an outstanding aH^air. 
On August 14th, we will have our first annual Golf Tourney. LOU FEHLIG is Chairman for the event which will be held at Nonvood Country 

Club. The golfing will be followed with a dinner 
for club members whether they play golf or not. 
Any alumni or faculty in the city on this date 
are urged to attend. 
GEORGE CONVY, JOE GOL.\BOWSKI and the officers are presently making final arrangements with the railroads for our annual scholarship fund football trip. This year, we will have the Okla­homa game for our trip. Since this is our only source of income for our scholarship fund, every effort is being made to promote this trip to at­tract our biggest attendance yet. 
At the present time, the ofiicers are at work on our program for the coming year. ^V'e are in hopes of having a guest from the University for each one of our affairs and on Universal Notre Dome night we are again going to have a speaker of national prominence who is in some way con­nected with or has shown an interest in Notre Dame and its program. 
We arc in hopes this year of completing and publishing our Roster. This Roster will be made up so that additions and changes can be made without the necessity of printing an entire new one each year. 
—JOHN F. HIGGINS, JR., Secy.-Trcas. 


Terre Haute 
On May 14 the officers and board of directors held a meeting to make plans for the club to attend a Notre Dame football game this coming season. Although undecided at the present time, it will probably be the Michigan State, Indiana or Purdue game. Plans were also formulated for the annual picnic which is scheduled this summer. 
FRED CHRISTMi\N attended the Presidents Coimcil, held at Notre Dame in June, for repre­sentatives of 68 ND local alumni chibs. 
—JAMES BOYER, Secy. 


Tallahassee 
Alumni and friends of Notre Dome in Tallahassee, Florida, had an opportunity to meet and talk mth head football coach TERRY BRENN/\N here re­cently at an informal club get-together. 
Brennan who was in Tallahassee as a member of Florida State University's Coaching Clinic, de­lighted us by bringing two other prominent coaches to the gathering. With Brennan at the home of Foundation Cit>- Chairman \VIB (^VILLOUGHBY) MARSHALL, '49, were Michigan State's Duffy Daugherty and Oklahoma's Bud Wilkinson. 
Alumni secretary JIM ARMSTRONG was the speaker and guest of honor for the Universal Notre Dame Night celebration held in Tallahassee on the night of April 13. 
^fo^e than 30 alumni and friends of the Uni­versity attended the annual banquet to hear Jim speak on the status of the University today. 
Jim, accompanied here by his wife, Alarian, was introduced by Wib Marshall. Precedes the dinner the Armstrongs ^vcre guests at a cocktail party ^vea by the club members at the home of JACK MURPHY, '50. 
Alumni and former students attending were: MICHAEL J. (JACK) ^VALSH, '43, EDWARD MUELLER, '47, ROBERT M. XL\RSHALL, '34, JOHN P. (JACK) MURPHY, '50, WILLOUGH­BY (^VIB) AURSHALL, '49, and PATRICK HALEY, '55. Associate members attending were THOMAS J. CARROLL, JUSTICE STEPHEN C. O'COXNELL, and JUDGE JOHN P. AUCK. 
The Tallahassee Notre Dame Club entertained the Notre Dame baseball team on Easter Sunday at St. Theresa Beach on the Gulf of Mexico. The team participated In the Florida State U. baseball tourney. 
The all-day family outing consisted of a picnic and beach party for the club members, wives and children as well as the 22 students from Notre Dame. 
Sv^-immlng, sun bathing, as well as a buffet Itmch featured the restful day for the members of the team and their hosts. The beach house of DR. PAUL J. COUGHLIN was the site of the picm'c. 
—^VIB AURSHALL 


Toledo 
The Notre Dame Club of Toledo held its Annual Communion Breakfast on Sunday, April 28th. Toledo Alumni, their wives and friends attended Alass and received Communion at Rosary Cathedral. A slight drizzle outdoors hadn't dampened the ardor of the group at all when President BILL AIUR> TAGH, Co-Chairmea JIAI SATTLER and CHUCK SCHIRcV greeted them at the front door of the Cathedral and ushered the Notre Dame men and their wives to the special reserved section. 
Following Afass, breakfast ^vas served in the Avhite-and-go!d room of the Park Lane Hotel. REV­EREND JOHN E. WALSH, C.S.C., who come from the campus especially for the affair, was guest speaker. His message was an Inspiring one—what a Notre Dame education means to a man throughout his entire lifetime, the deep-dou-n foundation it gives him for building a full, beneficial life in the name of his Alaker and for the good of his family and his fellow-men. 
Father Walsh told of recent developments on campus—the planned dining hall, new residence halls—and the current needs of the University. We learned informally that in addition to Important academic matters, both football and girls arc still major topics of student talk between classes and before ''lights out." 
In the name of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, President Murtagh presented a check for $1,500 to JACK SOLON, Toledo City Chairman of the 
TOLEDO—Board of Directors of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo are, left to right: John J. Midlen, Francis E. (Bud) Malone, Richard Kopf, Urban Gradel, \ViIHam O. Murtagh, Joseph Hillebrand, James J. Murtagh. Recently the Board voted, and the membership ap­proved, a $1,500 contribution in the name of the Club fo the University. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
DALLAS—A portion of the 225 alumni, wives and friends of Notre Dame who attended the Universal Notre Dame Night banquet on April 5 in the Baker Hotel. Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., director of student aid at Notre Dame, is shoivn speaking. Terry Brennan was the other university representative at the obser^'ance. 
Notre Dame Foundation who asked Father Walsh 
to take it back to the University and present it to 
FATHER aWAN'AUGH, JOHN MacCAULEY, 
our area Director, and the Foundation staff. 
RON BYERSMITH, toastmasler for the break­

fast, cailcd on JOE HfLLEBRAND, Board Chair­
inan of the Club, to introduce the new* members 
of the Board, URB GRADEL and DICK KOPF. 
Other directors, also introduced, were BUD MA­
LONE, JOHN MULLEN, JIM MURTAGH and 
President BILL MURTAGH. 
Toledo Blade chief photographer, TOM O'REIL­LY, was a busy one, skltting in and around tables taking record photos of the event. An in­formal picture of GEORGE KORHUMEL, JIM SCHOEN, JOHN MULLEN and their wives was featured in the society section of the Blade the following week. 
^Vedncsday, May 2, at the first meeting of the new Board, the following officers were elected for the coming year, to take office on Universal Notre Dame Night: JOE HILLEBRAND, rc-clcctcd Board Chairman; DICK DONOGHUE, President; PAUL DOOLEY, Vice-President; JAMES GARVIN, Sec­retary, and JIM XLALONE, Treasurer. Jim Ma­lone»s brother. Professor JOHN MALONE, of the University, will be glad to know that the Club's finances are in such good, tlirifty and substantial hands! 
Before the meeting, the Board met with Area Foundation Director JOHN MacCAULEY, who WHS \TsItIng Toledo for a week, and City Foimda­tlon Chairman Solon. John discussed Foundation alms and long-range planning with the group. 
—JACK SOLON 

Triple Cities 
At the Univcnal Notre Dame Night meeting an election of officers for the next two years was held as follows: GEORGE J. HAINES, re-elected president; DR. RICHARD SULLI\'AN, vice-presi­dent; JOSEPH GALLOWAY, secretary; and RICH­ARD J. HANIFIN, treasurer. FATHER FRANK HARRISON of the Cathedral in SjTacuse, was the principal speaker while DR. FRANK CONOLE served as toastmaster. The membership decided that the club should meet at least four times a year. 
—GEORGE J. HAINES 

Tulsa 
During the spring of this year, the club con­tinued its monthly Communion Mass and Break­^t . This is becoming one of the most popular events and a special breakfast will be held in July for Notre Dame students and for all sons of dub members. 
On June 25 the club's annual picnic took place at the Tulsa Country Club. S\\imming, golfing and a fried chicken dinner were enjoyed by a large number of Notre Dame families In the Tulsa area. 

Reservations are being taken for the football "spedals" which the club ^vill sponsor in the fall. The first will feature air-conditioned buses going to Dallas on September 22 for the ND-SMU game. The second will be an all-Pullman train going to South Bend for the OU-ND game. Tickets will be proWdcd on both specials and anyone interested should contact DAVE THORNTON, Room 527, National Bank of Tulsa Building. All proceeds will go to the club's scholarship fund. 
BOB SHEEHAN attended the Presidents Coundl held at Notre Dame in June for ofiicers of 68 local alumni clubs in \-arious sections of the nation. 
—BOB ifANNK 

Wabash Valley 
Alumni and guests enjoyed a fine meeting at the Elks Countrv Club In Lafayette for UND Night. TED BUMBLEBURG, JR., President, presided during the evening. DEAN BALDINGER of the Science School at ND, and Jack Mollcnkopf, head football coach at Purdue, were our guest speakers. As happened a year ago, Mrs. Mollcnkopf won the ND blanket we raified, and last year Dr. IVen­dell France of the Purdue faculty won a blanket, so we arc going to have our colors and monogram all over the Purdue campus. 
A committee headed fay BOB MOHLNL\N, last year's winner, chose the writer as Man of the Year, which was a real, though pleasant, surprise. 
\Ve had planned a train trip ^v*ith the Purdue alumni to the ND-Purdue game this fall, but that had to be cancelled because the New York Centrzil Railroad will not let us have a spedal. Dr. KEN LAWS was chairman of that committee. 
AVe plan a summer golf stag, with PAUL KEN­NEDY and JOE CAMPAGNA as the co-chairmen. That should be a real affair, with those two han­dling the arrangements. 
—BILL RUNGE 

Washington, D. C. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was held on April 30, at the Sheraton-Carltou Hotel. HOWARD SCHELLENBERG, the outgoing president, intro­duced FATHER ARTHUR HOPE, C5.a , who gave a very inspiring talk on the mission of those of us whom God has blessed with the opportunity to attend Our I^dy*s School. Following Father's talk, VALENTINE B. DEALE, the Chairman of the Board of Governors, presented Howard with a plaque in appreciation of his leadership of the past year. E. F. (DUKE) MURPHY then pre­sented GAYLORD P. HAAS with Man of the Year 
i> 

A^vard. The meeting %vas closed after a short talk 
by DR. ALVTTHEW SULLIVAN, the incommg 
president. 
(Ed. Note: DR. MATT SULLIVAN represented 
the Washington club at the Presidents Coundl, 
held at Notre Dame in June for heads of local 
alumni clubs, and gave an excellent presentation of 
a topic entitled "Club Dues." JC). 
West Virginia {. 
Local alumni as well as the townspeople ^vere greatly saddened by the death of one of our most distinguished and beloved members, JUDGE AR­THUR P. HUDSON, '95. He wIU be missed exceedingly at our dub functions. 
Plans arc being made for the annual picnic in August. Club dues are payable to LA^VRENCE G. HESS, 894 Sherwood Road, Charleston, W. Va. 
CORNELIUS DESMOND represented the dub at the Presidents Council, held at Notre Dame for local alumni dub presidents, in June. 
—LAAVRENCE G. HESS. Secy.J 

Western Washington 
The Notre Dame Club of Western Washington participated as a body in a dinner Sunday, June 3, 1956, sponsored by Seattle University, welcom­ing JOHN CASTELLANI as their new basketball ; coach. John, of course, was the former assistant basketball coach at Notre Dame. He u'as extended a warm welcome by all after a very inspirational talk. John was presented by the Club president, BERN.ARD J. LENOUE, who climaxed John' ^ many other accomplishments by hailing him as "the most eligible bachelor in town." 
The former Notre Dame men who were in at­tendance with their wives and friends were: BURT HALL. DAVE READ. FATHER JAMES COW­GILL, FATHER PHILIP DUFFY, BILL \VYNNE, JOE LOTTA, CHARLES LaCUGNA, BOB VO­GLEWEDE, PHIL HOSTERMAN, TED CUM­MINGS, ED SCHICKLER, PAT SUTHERLAND, : JIM O'BRIEN, TOM FITZGERALD, and E.M­MET LENIHAN. ' 
BERNARD J. LENOUE was recently electedP' Club president; AUGIE VON BOCKLIN, Vice-President; TED CUMMDJGS, Secretary; and BURT HALL, Treasurer. Recently elected to the Board of Directors were: CHARLES OSBURN, AUGIE VON BOCKLIN, BEN LENOUE, JAMES KELLEHER, CHARLES LaCUGNA, and TED CUMMINGS. 
BEN LENOUE represented the club at the Presidents Council, held at Notre Dame in June, for 68 presidents of local alumni ND clubs in all parts of the nation. 
—THEODORE P. CUMMINGS, Secy. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1956 

He was employed by the Socony Mobile Oil Com> pany in New York. 
JAMES W. HANLEY, '31, ClncinnaU, Ohio, died June 25, 1954, according to word just received from bis 'wife. 
FRANK E. CANE, *36, Los Angeles. Calif., died June 6. 1952. according to information re­
CLASSES 
, Engagements 
Miss Rae Louise landiorio and DR. NOEL F. BARTONE, '33. Miss Ann Cecelia Smith and ROBERT M. RIORDAN, '50. Miss Nancy Elizabeth DriscoU and JOHN A. HALEY, JR., '51. Miss Mary Katharine Nunes and Lt. (jg) THOMAS E. BAKER, '53. !>Iisi Dorothy Lansdale and \VILLIAM E. BA­LOK, '53. ( Miss Kathleen Ann Abel and DAVID M. CURRY, '55. Miss Virginia Ann Dietsch and DAVID H. SCHEIBER, '56. Miss Sharon Doyle and \VILLL\M H. SCHEL­LONG, JR., '56. Miss Helen A. Reeves and GEORGE T. ZIM-IklERMAN, Jr., '56. 
Marriages 

r Miss Marilyn Jane Sunderlin and JOHN B. BREHMER, '43, South Bend, Ind., May 5. Mia Sibyl J. WUiams and MELVIN P. TOM­BER, '45, South Bend, Ind. Miss Patricia Cox Warren and DR. EDWARD 
H. IVEDLAKE, '51, Culver, Ind., AprD 21. Miss Mary Anne Lj-ons and HARRY L. SIE­MONSMA, '52, Ottawa, Canada, June 4. Miss Marilyn A. Mackin and JOHN B. TOEPP, '53, South Bend, Ind., June 2. 
Miss Carl Ann Brubaker and JAMES HEALY, 

i '54, Mishawala, Ind., May 26. 
! -, Miss Christine Frances Swaim and ENS. HENRY 
0 P. KRIENKE, '55, Milton, Ha., April 15. Miss Agnes Jean IVhalen and PAUL A. MILLER, '55, Pontiac, 111., June 2. Miss Rosemary Belton and CHARLES G. OL­LINGER, '56, South Bend, Ind., June 2. Miss Patricia Ann Kush and GEORGE P. ROBERT, '55, South Bend, Ind., June 2. 
Births 

Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. DuBOIS, '33, a -_ daughter. § Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM P. McCARTHY, '38, 
a son, Barry Scott, June 5. Mr. and Mrs. >VILLL\M S. MURR.4Y, '39, a son, Thomas Edward, April, 1956. Mr. and Mrs. RICOUID F. A.MES, '40, a daughter, Patricia Viisinia, May II. Col. and Mrs. K. J. GOFF, '40, a son, Keiii Matthew, May 7. Mr. and Mrs. EDW N SO.MMERER, '40, a son. May 31. Mr. and Mrs. W. J. WALDRON, JR., '44, a son, James Vincent, April 17. -» Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT J. HORENN, '46, a " daughter, Susan Lynn, May 25. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT P. KANE, '49, a son, Michael Clifford, April 25. Mr. and Mrs. DAN XL4LONEY, '49, a daugh­ter, Mary Ellen, December 31, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. WALTER MARUT, '49, a daughter. Mr. and Mn. THOMAS J. McCARTHY, '50, a daughter. Colleen, November 27, 1955. Mr. and Mrs. JOHN J. REEDY, '50, a daugh­ter, Susan Margaret, April 17. 1^ Mr. and Mrs. DONALD ZEHNDER, 50, a daughter. Mr. and Mrs. CORNELIUS DESMOND, '51, a son, Thomas Patricic, May 6. Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD MEAGHER, '51, a daughter, Laura, April 19. Mr. and Mrs. MAURICE NOONAN, '51, a daughter. Mr. and Mrs. C. V. FALKENBERG, JR., '52. a daughter, Catherine Mary, May 18. Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT K. GORDON, JR., '52, a daughter, Mary Kathleen, May 25. Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED SULLIVAN, '52, a -V daughter. 
Mr. and Mrs. ALEX A. PETRILLO, '54, a son, .Alexander III, December 3, 1955. Lt. and Mrs. JOSEPH R. ^V•ESTER, '54, a son, Michael Joseph, December 12, 1955. 
Sympathy 
ANDREW J. KrVTA, on the death of his mother, June 10, 1955. EDWARD B. KUNKLE, '48, on the death of his mother. May 21. 
Obituary 
MICHAEL A. DONAHUE, '92, died June 3 in South Bend. He \^'3S employed for many ye:irs by the Northern Indiana Public Service Company and was a post grand Imlght of the South Bend Council 553, Knights of Coliunbus, and a former president of the St. Joseph Valley Alumni Club. He is sur­vived by two sons, a daughter, 14 grandchildren and 5 great-granddiildrcn. 
JUDGE ARTHUR P. HUDSON. *95, Notre Dame Foundation Governor in ^Vest Virginia and one of Charleston's best-known citizens, died May 21 after a short illness. Judge Hudson entered politics in 1914 and was elected clerk of the Cir­cuit of Kanawha County for a sLc-year term. In 1920 he was elected to his first of t%vo eight-year ttrms as circmt court judge. He was also active in real estate affairs. Judge Hudson \tzs a long­time member of the board of trustees of Morris Harvey College, the board of directors of the Kanawha County Public Library and the Charles­ton and West Virginia Bar Associations. He w:is a member of the Knight sof Columbus, the Notre Dame Alumni Club and Sacred Heart Catholic Church. He is siunaved by his %vife and three sisters. 
JOHN J. WOOLVERTON, '01, long-time presi­dent of the Malleable Steel Range Manufacturing Corporation in South Bend, died Jtme 2. He is sun^ved by his %vife, a son, a daughter, three granddaughters and two brothers. 
FRANCIS A. SMOGOR. '03, died May 22 In his home in Richmond, Ohio. Mr. Smogor ^^'as engaged in the road building business. He Is sur­vived by his wife, one son, three daughters, five grandchildren and one great grandchild. 
JEREMIAH J. Mca-\RTHY, '04, died Jfay 10 in Portland, Oregon, follo^ving a brief illness. Formerly an English teacher at the University of Portland, Mr. McCarthy later entered the business of real estate appraisab, mortgage loans and busi­ness counseling. He was a member of the arbi­tration committee of the Portland Realty Board, the Notre Dame Alumni Club and the Knights of Columbus. He is survived by one daughter, a son and six grandchildren. 
JOHN F. CARROLL, '14, died Afay 18 at his homo in Portage, ^Vis. He is survived by his wife, one son, t^v'o daughters and seven grand­children. 
LORENZO A. GLASSCOTT, '18, Michigan City attome>-, died May 5 in Hines Veterans Hospital, Hines, 111., after an illness of several months. He was a member of St. Mary of the Immaculate Conception Church, the Elks, Michigan City Bar Association, the American Bar Association and was a veteran of World War II. He Is survived by his father, two sisters and a brother. 
FRANK B. THOMPSON, '21, died March, 1954. according to information recently received in the Aliunni Office. 
ED^VIN J. BUCKLEY, '24, first assistant gen­eral attorney for the Chicago Park District, died May 9 after suffering a heart attack. Mr. Buckley ^v-as president of the Park District Credit Union and formerly \v'as an assistant corporation counsel for the City of Chicago. He is survived by his ivife. Alice, three sons and one daughter. 
F. RALPH HEGER, '25, Evanswlle, Indiana, died suddenly on April 26, 1956. 
FLOYD A. GENIN, '29, died suddenly on Janu­ary 11. He is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son. 
GERALD A. BUSCH, '29, died June 12 in Paris. 

ceived in the Ahmmx Office. PHILIP WALKER^ '36, was one of 74 passengers killed in the crash ot an airliner enroute from New York to Venezuela, South America, on June 20. He was an industrial relations executive with the Gulf Oil Co., In Venezuela. 
WILLIAM H. HARRISON, president of the In­ternational Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and a member of Notre Dame's Advisory Council for Science and Engineering, died April 21. Mr. Harrison was a past-president of the American Institute of Electrical En^ecrs and a member of the board of directors of Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute. He was also on the board of trustees of Pratt Institute and the United Engineering Trus­tees. Inc.. and the Advisory Council to the D ^ partment of Electrical Engineering at Princeton University. For his wartime services, Mr. Harri­son received the Distinguished Ser\'ice Medal from the War Department, the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire >\'ith the degree of Honorary Commander, and the Cross of the French Legion of Honor with the rank of o£5cer. He also won the Hoover Medal, the highest engineering civilian a\%'ard for distinguished sendee. He Is survived by his wife and t^vo sons. 
DR. GORDON K. CHALMERS, president of Kenyon College, died May 8 in Hyannis. Mass. He received an honorary doctor of la^vs degree from Notre Dame in 1953. 
1900 
^fr. and &frs. CHARLES BAAB of 90 Sanboumo Street, AVilkes-Barre, Pa., recently celebrated their 45th ^v•edding anniversary. They are the parents of five diildrcn and they also have eight grandchildren. 
1906 
REUNION REGISTRANTS AT LAW BLDG. 
REV. EUGENE BURKE, C.S.C., COL. EARLE 

P. DOYLE, JAMES A. DUBBS, SR., ^VILLIAM FEELEY, SAMUEL J. GUERRA. THOMAS A. LALLY, FRANK A. McCARTHY, J. BELL MORAN, STEPHEN F. RIORDAN, FRANK J. SH.\UGHNESSY, JOHN F. SHEA, LEONARD 
F. SMITH and FRANK H. VOGEL. 
1907 
soyeftR 
Reuriion 
•Juntr j 
nggpiiiii 
Fred L. Steeis 

1911 
105 S. LaSaUe St Chicago 3, Illinois 
REUNION REGISTRANTS AT LAW BLDG. 

JOHN J. BRISLIN, EDWARD L. FIGEL, ELMO FUNK, COL. R. OTTO PROBST and FRED L. STEERS. 
1912 
45ytRR 
Ju rltr 
I 7-e.-p ( 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 31 
191 3  Paul R-Byrne Box 46  
Notre Dame, Indiana  
101 A  Ron O'Neill  
'  '  ' ^  1350 No. Black Oak Drive  

South Bend 17, Indiana 
Attending this year's reunion were Mr. and Mrs. JAMES V. ROBWS of Nogales, Arizona, WIL­LIAM POYNTELLE DOWNING of Decatur, Illi­nois RAY T. MILLER of Cleveland, Ohio, and WALTER CLE.MENTS, LEO SGODZKSKI, CECUL BIRDER and R. S. O'NEILL of South Bend. CHARLIE VAUGHAN and TWO.MEY CLIFFORD AvTOte that they were coming, but VIC missed them. 
It was Jim Robins' first \-isit to the campus since '14, but he's promised to be a "regular" from now on. He and his charming wife, Mary, were amazed and enchanted at the growth and beauty of the campus, and visited every nook and cranny of it. Jim is a real *'oId-timer," entering Notre Dame in 'OS, and rooming, as an assistant to FATHER JOHN OVVANAUGH, next to the President's ofiicc on the second floor of the Main Building. The Robins drove back to Cleveland for a visit with the Ray Millers, but the trip was delayed until Jim could get over to Corby and the Infirmary to visit FATHERS CARROLL and DORE.MUS. 
Ray Miller repeated his suggestion, enthusiastic­ally seconded by FRED STEERS, LOUIE KIEF­ER, et al, that for the earlier classes the "5-year Reunion" plan be supplanted by a plan similar to the old St. Joe Hall reunion plan. Classes were not as separated in the 'teens as now, and Ray is tight when he insists that a reunion, every two or three years, for, say the classes of '12, '13, '14, '15 ^"f< '16, would bring back more alumni than the present "once every five years" reunion of in­dividual classes. We of '14, for example, had as many intimate friends in the classes of '12 and '16 as in our own class. It's something to think about. 
|0| C James £. Sanford 
• ' • •* 1429 w. Farragut Avenue Chicago 40, Ultnois 
1916 (''^°^" ^- ^filler 
612 Wisconsin Avenue Racine, \Visconsin REUNION REGISTRANTS AT LAW BLDG. 
ED BECKMAN, JAKE ECKEL, JOSEPH FLYNN, TIMOTHY GALVIN. REV. HENRY GLUECKERT, RAY HUMPHREYS. LOUIS KEIFER, CASEY KRAJEWSKI, PAT MAlOStX, WALTER P. McCOURT, GROVER KOLLER, REV. VINCENT MOONEY and PAUL J. F. SMITH. 
Edward J. McOsker 
1917 
2203 Briarwood Road Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio 
40y6RR 
June I •I T-i3-P , 
George £. Harbcrt 
1918 
500 Rock Island Bank Bldg. Rock Island, IlUnois 

Our column again records an unhappy event, as we note the passing of LORENZO (LOUIE) A. GLASSCOTT on May 5. of this year. Lorenzo entered Notre Dame in 1915 and was a resident of St. Jo Hall until its rebuilding in 1917. He graduated in I9I8j receiving an L.L.B. Degree, and returned to Michigan City ^vherc he practiced until his death. Funeral services were held from St. Mary of the Immaculate Conception Church and burial was at Greenwood Cemetery. 
Louie was bom in Michigan City September 7, 1897, and practiced la%v from the time of bis grad­uation until his death in hb home town. He was a member of the Michigan City Bar Association, the American Bar Association, and was a veteran of World War One. He was unmarried and was survived by his father, two sisters and a brother, Robert £. Glasscott, who was also his partner in the practice of la.w. 
Hb many friends mourn his passing and extend th ^ sympathy to his bereaved family. May his Soul rest in Peace. 
Our belated congratulations to JAMES G. WAL­LACE, whose son, HENRY RING WALLACE, was among the group of postulants who received the habit of Brothers of the Christian Schools in the Church of St. Jean Baptists de LaSalle on Sep­tember 18, 1955. Brother Bernard James will be-
PITTSBURGH—Frank McSorley (second from right) v.-as presented the cluh's Man of the Year award on Universal Notre Dame Night From left to right: Earl Brieger, retiring president; Harry Stuhldreher, toastmaster; McSorley; and president-elect Leo Vogel, Jr. 
come one of the Class who are beginning a twelve^.\; months training period preparatory to taking their^ j religious vows. ?-^ 
Congratulations to Jim and his family. ^l 

f^l ^ Theodore C Radcmaker Peru Fomidry Company Peru, Indiana 
1920 J^™^ ^ Ryan 
Oi 
107 Magec Ave, Rochester 10, N. Y. 

Members of our class should know the class ofii-! cers elected to fiU oSice until our next class reunion | in 1960. I do not have the names of the vice presidents and neither docs JIM ARMSTRONG, ! but I hope someone will send the names to me. i JOHN T. BALFE of New York City, I hope, | will always be the Vice President for the East^. as I know no one who has given so much time to '_•' Notre Dame affairs and who will so eagerly wel­come a visit from any member of our class. He ! will hold that office by election until 1956. The • other officers are as follows: President, RICHARD 
B. SWIFT of Davenport, Iowa; Treasurer, E. J. J LALLY, Sioux City, Iowa; Secretary, JAMES H. 1 RYAN, Rochester, N, Y. They succeed President ' 
J. PAUL LOOSEN, Okarche, Oklahoma; Treas­urer HARRY P. NESTER, Columbus, Ohio; Sec­retary RALPH W. BERGMAN, St. Louis. Former Vice Presidents were: North, RICHARD B. SWIFT; East, JOHN T. BALFE. New York City;/-J Midwest, PAUL R. CONAGHAN, Chicago, lU.;^ ' West, EDWARD P. MADIGAN, Oakland. Calif. Previously these offices have been held by JOHN T, BALFE; OSCAR SIDENFADEN, Los Angeles, Calif.; EDWARD M. DORAN, South Bend; and SHERWOOD DIXON of Dixon. III. EDWARD 
J. MEEHAN of South Bend and ED^VARD M. DORAN have unselfishly given of their time to act as local chairmen for reunions and are always ready if our class needs them to represent us at Notre Dame. I am sorry to report that Ed has an attack of arthritis in his neck which calls for a letter from his friends. Ed Donm has forsaken « . politics in favor of a very busy law practice in'. f South Bend but be has not forsaken his delightful personality. Sherwood Dixon, as you all know, was Lieutenant Governor of Illinois with Governor Stevenson. He has ^ven his time to more im­portant activities and given up politics. Besides running a law practice in Dixon, he is governor general of a family of seven youngsters—three of them now in college. He says that Hs judgment and decisions are not always accepted with unani-j mous approval by the seven. LEO WARD in Los ^ Angeles, like Balfe in New York, is always willing ; and eager to greet members of our class. He also has a busy law practice. You will find our class _f » scattered up and down the Pacific and Atlantic ~ coasts and states in between- They have readied an age when friends and news of friends in the college years are most welcome. Send ne^vs of members to me, and I will ask that it be pub­lished so that we can all share it. I stopped at Notre Dame a few weeks back. I saw Corby, Walsh and Sorin Halls, the Church, Chemistry Hall, the Grotto, the Ubrary, the Gym and the majestic /J Main building with Our Lady above the Dome. ',-!; They are all there, unchanged from the days when .-'^ wc were at Notre Dame. The Dome was beautiful ?', as usual, the grass was fresh and green, the foliage ^^V of the trees new and beautiful, and the flowers well cared for. The students ^vere tall, slim and serious, but had that glint in their eye that comes when >-our thoughts are in other places. It was close to June, the most beautiful part of the year, and times have not changed. The students were eager to be re­leased and on their \vay. There have been changes at Notre Dame as there have been wth us—bigger around the center but starting with the center that was our Notre Dome. The Main Building, where some of us had our beds and nearly all ate, ^ ^ is no%v a big administration building which governs .Jj a student body of five thousand students and :'. buildings, classrooms and other departments which make Notre Dame today the leading University in America. The combinations of inspiration, tal­ent, persistence, and the hard work of many have ^1 been necessary to bring this about. To believe i^ it you must see it. Most of us have, but for the ^ few who haven't there is a great inspiration and ; surprise in store for you. ';; 
Miss Eileen Ann Balfe, daughter of Mr. and ^ Mrs. JOHN T. BALFE, was married to Francis f 
J. Harrigan in Rye. New York, on April 17. M^ 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1956 
EDWARD V. GROOVE, '26 

Edward V. Crowe has been execu­tive secretary' of the Catholic Youth Organization for the Archdiocese of Detroit since 1934. His tremendous 
.^achievement in CYO work has helped 'contribute to the welfare of Detroit's youth. 
Ed Crowe comes from a family of outstanding atliletes. He and six of his brothers starred in basketball and foot­ball at Notre Dame. 
Ed came to Detroit as a teacher and - coach of all sports at St. Benedict's 'High School following his graduation from Notre Dame in 1926. He was one of the pioneers in the organization of the Parochial High School League and served as its president for eight years. 
Various voluntary posts which he holds at the present time include chair­
-jnan of the Detroit Commission on Children and Youth; president of the Group Work and Recreation Federa­tion of Metropolitan Detroit; Michi­gan Regional Director of the Youth Department of the NCWC; and sec­retary of Cardinal Mooney's annual capital fimd campaign. 
•' More than 20,000 boys and girls and young men and young women enjoyed the CYO sports program last year un­der Ed's direction. He was named Man-of-the-Year by the Notre Dame Club of Detroit this past April. 
Ed and his wife reside in Detroit _and are the parents of six children. 
KENTUCKY—President Joe Harmon (right) presents a $750 unrestricted gift from the club to Alumni Secretary Armstrong. In a separate contribution Louisville alumni also gave §500 to the scholarship fund. 
•1921 Dan W. Duffy 
' '*• ' 1101 N.B.C. BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 
REIINION REGISTR,\NTS AT L;\W BLOG. ALFRED ABRAMS, WILLLUt S. ALLEN, 
NOR.MAN BARRY, JOSEPH R. BRANDY, A. T. 
BRAY, DAN DIH'FY, DAVID HAYES, LEO D. 
KELLEY, JOHN E. KENNEY, LEN L. LALLY, 
HARRY McLELLAN, EDWARD C. .McMAHON, 
CALLK MILLER, VINCENT A. NAGEL, 
THOMAS VAN AARLE, WILLIA.M WHITE and 
GEORGE C. WITTERIED. 
1 922 Gerald A. Ashe ' ^ ^ 39 Cambridge St. Rochester 7, N. Y. 
35yeftR Reunion 
Junt f k 7-6-9 d 

Mary Frances Kcarns, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. RAYMOND J. KEARNS of Terre Haute. Ind., vrns united in marriage with DR. LAW­RENCE PAUL LUCARELLI in the bride*s home city on April 28. We tender our best ivishes to the nc^vly^s'cds and send a special salute to their parents. 
Our hearty congratulations go to ALBERT "AL" CARROLL of Rockford, HI., who was highly hon­ored as recipient of the N. D. Club of Rockford's "Man of the Year'* title and plaque for meri­torious service to Notre Dame in that area. Al is currently seni-ing his second tenn as club treas­urer. EDWARD (MOOSE) KRAUSE was guest speaker at the dinner honoring AI. 
Tom Reichert, son of RONL\INE REICHERT, is a top flight pole vaulter for Southwest High 
School in Minneapolis. Tom has already cleared 12 feet, and hopes to enter N. D. so he can see what can be done about improving upon some of his Dad's performances on the track team in the early 20*s. 
FRANK OTT of Herkimer, N. Y., hits the "jackpot" by coming up with the find of the year. For years we have been wondering whatever happened to DANNY E. SULLIVAN of Jamestown, 
N. Y. ^Ve gave him up for lost, Alas! Danny was not lost at all. It was the Class of '22 that was lost and Frank has led us back to Danny. Let us quote Frank Ott's letter with the joyous news: 
^'History was made once :^ain in Herkimer, 
N. Y., when Danny Sulli\"an of Amen Comer came sweeping out of the past and ^ve faced each other again after 34 years, come June. 
"If you have had no ne^vsy tidbits about Danny 
of late, this will fill you in. We had dinner to­
gether about two weeks ago and we are repeating 
again tonight (May 16). 
"The winds of good fortune that took Danny to N. D. from Jamestown, N. Y., and then on to the metropolis of the Midwest, finally landed faim along the fabled New Jersey coast with the ocean at his door. That he has enjoyed every day of his life since leaving N. D. is at once endent by his hearty laugh and the same old good fellowship that made him so popular on the campus. He may best be described as chairman of the board of directors in appearance with his shocky steel grey hair and that ever-present Irish wit. 
"On his shoulders he carries the responsibilities of one of the country's largest air-conditioning manufacturers as Eastern Sales Alanager, and it is quite evident that with Danny at the Helm we Easterners ore going to be kept cool in the hot summer and warm in the cold winter. 
"He and Mrs. Sullivan recently took over Albany ^vhere I first got on his trail. They decided they u'anted to live in one of Albany's garden apart­ments with a long list of applications. Showing the Amen Comer fomiula is still working for hun, for his name went from last to first, and there he is . . . 'Stonehenge,' Albany, N. Y., V. I. P. . . . that's what did it. Danny knows the right 
Notre Dame Alumntis, August, 1956 33 
people. And he is wondering what happened to *Ma* Comvay." 
The Alumni Office tells m that HARRY J. MEHRE has moved from Duluth, Georgia^ to Atlanta where he resides at 3155 Arden Road, N. "W. 
We arc delighted to hear the grand news of the marriage of Dianne Hanrahan, daughter of ^Ir. and Mrs. XTNCENT J. HANRAHAN, of Silver Spring, Mar>*Iand, to Robert Mark Coughlan at a Nuptial Mass in Silver Spring on June 23. 
109 3 Louis V. Bruggner 
• '^• ' 2165 Riverside Drive South Bend, Indiana 
A 33-year-old m>*stcry of a missing classmate came to light a lew weeks ago that is as aston­ishing as the fact that only after 33 years did it come to light in the Alumni Office. 
This comer of the Alumni Secretariat (meaning 
L. V. B.) has long been tmhappy over the fact that some 20 names of classmates appeared on tlie list of "whereabouts unknown—^mail returned un­claimed/' and this spring I decided to do some­thing about it. Personal advertisements were in­serted in the newspapers of those cities from which, according to the '23 Some, these missing classmates hailed. The following ad is a sample and this one, incidentally, unearthed the mystery: 
LEO C. DUNLEA (or relatives or friends) re­quested to furnish his present address. Last known address Youngstown, Ohio, graduate Uni­versity Notre Dame 1923, degree LL.B. Louis V. Bruggner, 127 W. Washington St., South Bend 1, Ind. 
A few days later I received this letter: "Ans\ver­ing your adv. in the local paper regarding my brother, Leo C. Dunlea, I am sorry I cannot fur­nish his address. I doubt he is alive. . . . After finishing at Notre Dame in 1923 arrangements had been made for him to enter a law firm in Pitts­burgh, but they did not want him tmtil that fall. He decided to spend the summer on a Great Lakes freighter. We heard from him for a few weeks and then—NOTHING. We have not heard from him since. The steamship company adi'ised 

NEW ORLEANS—^Terence J. Smith was named Man of the Year by New Orleans alumni at their Universal Notre Dame Night dinner. From left to right: Smith; Thomas J. Mc­Mahon, secretarj'-treasurer; James Smith, re-elected vice-president; Peter L. Hilbert, re­elected president; and the Rev. Walter J. Higgins, principal speaker. 
>VILLIAM M. McNALLY, '37 

After graduating from Notre Dame with a bachelor of arts d^e e in 1937, WilUam M. McNally attended St. John's University Law School for one year. He later was president of the | Sheridan Square Wine and Liquor* Corporation and also ^vas a member of the sales promotion department of Calvert Distillers and Bellows Com­pany. 
During World War II, Bill served three and a half years in the United States Army Air Force and was dis-^ charged as a first lieutenant. Followin^= his tour of duty with the Armed Forces, he was vice-president of Com­munity Redevelopment Corporation in New York City. 
He established the William M. Mc­Nally and Associates Agency, an organ­ization of fund counsellors whose onljf,^^' clients are Catholic institutions. Bill is unmarried and resides at the New York Athletic Club. He is a member of the St. Paul A. C , the New York 
A. C , and the Irish Historical Society. His brother, Joseph C , also graduated from Notre Dame in 1937. ™ft 
his ship arrived in Detroit on a Saturday. The creu* ^vas paid off and went ashore for the ^veek­end. When the ship sailed Alonday a.m. Leo had not rcturticd. They received no word from him. I went to Detroit twice chiring the followlns months but found no trace of him. He just van­ished. I hope . . . our assumption of his death is wrong. ^Vc have continued to hope during the„ 
34 Notre Dame AlumnuSj August, 1956 

,'^past 33 years that we would hear from him. Leo ^ . Dunlea, 859 Canfield Road, Youngslo^m 11, Ohio." Then followed an exchange of letters between us which brought nothing ne\v of any consequence to light, although I do want to quote this sentence from Mr. Dunlea: "since your adv. in the local paper a number of people have talked to me about Leo. One suggests that if he is practicing law, each state has a published directory of all author­ized lawyers." For ^vhat the suggestion is ivorth, the attention of all lau'ycrs among the Alumni is ^directed to this matter. Any clues should be called 
•^to the attention of ifr, William Dunlea at the address gi\'en above. 
Question: Where has the Alumni Office, and the Youngstown alumni been all these 33 years? 
Tlie balance of my search for correct addresses was more rewarding. As of this writing, there are now only nine names on the ''unclaimed mail** list. Of these, two are AsiaU'cs, REV. VINCENT CATA­PANG of the Philippines and CHING K/VY DOM­INIC of China. All Alumni are asked to check 
•their contacts and to report to me any informa­tion as to their whereabouts. 
This leaves seven names. Of these, three are unfortunates who wish to be left alone, three are old students who did not graduate but are listed as '23 men by the Alumni Office, and one, FRED 
D. ULLRICH, with degree of Bachelor of Science, 
does not appear in the *23 Dome. Thus endeth my manhunt. 
Correspondence with and from classmates has been encouraging. Keep the letters coming, fellows, and the direct-mail news-letter campaign ^vill 
r
ove apace. CLIFFORD B. WARD, editor of the Fort Wayne, Ind. News-Sentinel, and TOM PLOUFF, Marin­ette, Wis., sales whiz, were honored as men of the year this spring by their respective home-town clubs. 
The death of JOHN R. FLYNN was reported in the last issue of the ALUMNUS, but is repeated here in the belief some of his friends might have missed the item in the last issue. In line with a practice begun a year ago John has been enrolled in the Purgatorial Society of the Holy Cross For­eign Mission Society. The policy is recommended 
'^ o other Classes haxing the necessary "facilities." 
Friends of 1923 men who are identified by the Alumni Office \vith earlier or later classes than 1923, and who wish to keep informed on '23 news, are requested to communicate with the class secre­tary. Our periodic news-letters which go out to '23 men arc more exciting and detailed than these notes in the ALUMNUS. Let's keep our old tics strong. (LOUIS NAVIN and others, note). 
1 924 James R. Mechan I #A T 329 So. Lafayette Blvd. 
m South Bend 10, Indiana 
1925 John p . Hurley 
• '^* ' 2085 Brookdale Road Toledo 6, Ohio 
DON MILLER qualified as a grandfather for the first time on a double count. A son was bom to his daughter, ^Irs. Thomas F. Barrett, and a daughter to ^frs. John Berringer, another daughter of Don and Mrs. Miller—only two days apart. 
• 
109A Rudolph A. Gocpfrich ' '*" 1109 N. Cleveland Ave. South Bend 28, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS AT LAW BLDG. 

PAUL ABEL, JACK ADAMS, BOB ANDREWS, ^VILLIAM R. BARR, JOHN BULGER, A. V. CAPANO, LESTER CLARKE, REV. BERNARD 
.COUGHLIN, B. D. COUGHLIN, ED GROOVE, 
,^'RANK DEITLE, R. J. DOLEZAL, DICK DON­NELLY, PHILIP M. DONOVAN, ^VILLUM DORGAN, J. H. DRISCOLL, RAYMOND DURST, HERB EGGERT, THOXUS A. FAR­RELL, SR., ROMAN FELDPAUSCH, AL FO­LEY, LOUIS G. FRANKE, J. NORBERT GEL­SON, RUDY GOEPFRICH, VDJCE GOULET, 
A. F. GREENWALD, GIL V. GURNETT, AUS­TIN HALL, J. ARTHUR HALEY, JOE HEMPH­UNG, F. B. HURLEY, AL JOHANNES, FRAN­CIS KLEIN, HAROLD P. KLEIN, H. L. KRAUSER, BOB LaFOLLETTE, BERNARD W. LEY, JERRY McGINLEY, FRED S. McNEILL, 
g. V. MAHER, CHARLES E. MASON, PAUL E. 
MILLER, LEON J. MOES, FRANCIS NEES, GEORGE O'DAY, JOHN F. O'DONNELL, DAN O'NEILL, DENNIS J. O'NEILL, JAMES M. PEARSON, STEVE PIETROWCZ, CLAUD PITSENBERGER, IS. PROBST, MIKE RED­DINGTON, JAMES A. RONAN, JOHN J. RYAN, ROBERT H. SMITH, J. V. SOISSON, DR. JAMES K. STACK, ART STUDER, WADE SUL­LIVAN, FOREST J. SWARTZ, CLEM S^VEE­NEY, C. F. SWEENEY, JOHN TUOHY, HOW­ARD WEIMERSKIRK and T. J. WROCKLEGE. 
Mary Ellen Dwyer, daughter of Mr. and Afo. J/VMES DWYER, was married on April 7 to An­drew J. Fox, Jr., in Manhasset, L. I., N. Y. 
(Ed. Note: After the great job that RUDY GOEPFRICH did as Local Reunion Chairman for the 30th anniversary the class elected Hun secretary succeeding JOHN RYAN who in turn was elected president succeeding RAY DURST. Our personal thanks to E.T.Secretary Ryan for a splendid job as class correspondent for the ALUMNUS magazine these past five years. Since the magazine goes to press within a week after Reunion we'll have to give Rudy a month or so in which to get some notes for the Fall issue. The Alumni Office is grateful to lUW DURST, GEORGE aUlTNETT, JOHN RYAN, RUDY GOEPFRICH, FRANK DElX'XXE and all the others who helped make the weekend a memorable affair for the class of 1926. JC). 
1927 Steve Ronay *• 1125 Woodlaivn South Bend 16, Indiana 
deurwon 
June i 
1 1-8-^ ,; 

1928 ^ ^ ^- Buckley 
• 7AV J253 North Central Ave Chicago, Illinois 
JOHN P. COURTS is Executive Editor, Tax Department, at Frentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Ave­nue, New York City. He is also Consultant to the International Program in Taxation, Harvard Uni\'ersity. John has three children, ages 16, 18, and 19. His home Is at Hudson View Gardens in New York. His daughter attentb St. John's University at Brooklyn, N. Y. John was vnth our class for ttvo years. He received his LL.B. degree from Fordham University. John inquired about his roommate BILL DUFFY, the Watertown, N. Y., Duffy. Unfortunately BILL DUFFY has been on our mail unclaimed list for years. The last address we had for him was the National Press Building, Washington, D. C. Please let me know if any of you have or can obtain Bill Duffy's address. 
I wish we could obtain on cur class roster more of the fellmvs who were vfith our class for one to three years, but who did not recave a degree &om Notre Dame. Please send me the names and addresses of these men so I can contact them. They are eligible for membership In the Alumni Assodation, as well as our class. 
ROSCOE BONJEAN was nominated at the April primary elections as the Democratic candidate for Lieutenant Governor of Illinois. Roscoe, who prac­tices law in Springfield, Illinois, received his law degree from the University of Illinois. Roscoe has one daughter age 14. 
GEORGE COVERT and BILL CLARKE, JR., '27, of Toledo, attended the Old-Timers game at Notre Dame in May. George reports that he met JOHN FREDERICK, CLAYTON LEROUX and TOM BURK at the game. George mentioned that he saw Fathers Lang and Doremus. George Covert is still wth the DeVilbIss Mfg. Co. In Toledo. Bill mentioned that although he is a '27 man, he enjoys reading the '28 column. 
Speaking of '27 men, reminds me that I talked to BILL COYNE in May while in Washington, 
D. C. Bill was recovering from an operation. He is still in the legal di\'ision of Housing & Home Finance Agency. Bill's son is a student at the University of Alaryland. 
BILL JONES was busy when I was in Wash-
OKLAHOMA CITY—Joseph I. O'Neill, Jr., Midland, Texas, who is national president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association was principal speaker on UND Night. From left to right: O'Neill; Walter Duncan, chairman of the event; and Most Rev. Eugene J. McGuinness, Bishop of Oklahoma City. 
Notrg Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 35 
inston as he is active In Bar Assoaation activities. He served as Chairman of the Administrative Law Section of the D. C. Bar and as a member of the advisory committee of the American Bar Associa­tion to study the Hoover Report on administra­tive practices. 
No doubt many of you saw the pictare of *'Ohio*s Shockncssy" in the April 9 issue of Time. Jim's outstanding work as Chairman of the Ohio Turn­pike Commission did not cause him to age. In his column in the Cincinnati Enquirer Richard Kirkpatrick referred to Jim as "a bachelor with boimdicss encrg>* for wvrli who badgered contrac­tors and personnel into post-haste completion of the Ohio Turnpike.** 
ED RAFTER, DICK PHELAN, BILL KEAR­NEY, JIM ALLAN, RAY MULLIGAN and DAVE SMITH of our class attended the Chicago Club Uni\-crsal Notre Dame dinner. ED RAFTER men­tioned that he saw JOE TIMLIN of New York and BOB TROTTER recently. 
BERNIE CAREER keeps in touch with Ruth McMahon, the widow of JOHN McMAHON. Young John, ^^-ho is a sophomore at Notre Dame, is following in his illustrious Dad's footsteps in that he has done some writing for the Pittsburgh Catholic and he worked last smnmcr with the Pittsburgh Associated Press. 
HENRY HASLEY has been named Chairman of the ncwiy-formcd Catholic La^vycrs* Guild of the Fort Wayne diocese, according to nc\vspapcr reports I have seen. 
JINf CROSS owns and operates the Cross Oil Company in Salem, Ohio. Jim has one son age 18. 
ANTHONY DESTEFANO has been a photog­rapher with the Chicago Park District since 1937. He has three children, ages 15, 16, and 20. 
ED F. BRENNAN is with Burlington Industries, Inc., in New York City. Ed has five daughters, ages 5 to 18. His oldest daughter attends Oneonta State Teachers College. 
Father ^LVRK FITZGERALD, C.S.C., is spend­ing the summer in Gene\*a, Switzerland, studying the International Labor Organization. 
JIM CONMEY is a commodity trader with Parkes Mills Inc. in Rochester, N. Y. Jim has one son, age 12. 
BOB GRESSER is assistant cashier at the West End State Bank in Mishawaka, Indiana. Bob has one daughter, age 21. 
BOB GRAHAM is a partner in the law firm of Gardner, Carton, Douglas, Rocmcr & Chilgran in Cliicago. Bob has one son ^vho is at Notre Dame. Bob is a member of the Administrative Board of the Travelers Aid Society of Chicago. He has served on the Committee on Taxation of the Chicago Bar Association and as instructor in taxation at Loyola University. Bob has had ar­ticles published in the Accounting Rei-iew, the Tax Magazine and the Chicago Bar Record. 
BERNARD KORZEN is Clerk of the Probate Court in Cook County. He has two diUdren, ages 5 and 9. Bert's roommate, RAYMOND DRYMOLSKI, is Chief Justice of the Munidpal Court in Chicago. 
JOHN LAHEY is a pharmacist in the Villeger Drug Store in Dixon, Illinois. He has four chil­dren and three grandcliildren. Incidentally, your class secretary nmv has three grandchildren also. 
FRANK HOLDAMPF is a consulting engineer in Milwaukee. Frank has three children and one grandchild. Frank served as Republican Committee­man from 1940 to 1950. 
RAY LUSSON is with the Chicago Board of Education. He has two children. His son attends John Carroll University. 
^VALLfVCE MacDONALD is assistant trcasiu-cr of the Hartford Gas Co. in Hartford, Connecticut. He has five children ages 14 to 22. One daughter was graduated from the University of Connecticut and his son is now a student there. \ValIace %\'as a member of the Board of Education in Hartford from 1949 to 1955 and has sen'cd as Grand Knight of the Knights of Columbus. 
BILL M/\HIN has returned to Cambridge, Ohio, from Riverside, Cal. Bill has three children and one grandchild. His daughter and son were grad­uated from the University of Illinois in 1954. One son ivill finish at Reed College tlils year. 
REUBEN MOMSEN is Vice-President and Treas­urer of the Momsen Dunnegan Ryan Co., ^Vholc­sale Hardware in El Paso, Texas. Rube is Catholic Chairman for the area of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. 
CHARLES MURPHY is an auditor with the US.\F Auditor General in Los Angeles, California. 
LOUIS NORMAN Is a member of the staff of the Department of Public Relations, General Mo­tors Corporation, Detroit, Michigan. Louie cele­brated his 25th wedding anniversary last September. That reminds me that GUS JENKINS wUl cele­brate his 25th wedding anniversary on August 25 and BILL O'HARA on September 21. 
DON RAU is Director of the Income Tax Divi­sion of the Michigan Department of Revenue at Lansing, Michigan. He has three children. His oldest son is at Michigan State. Don had an article 
Three Notre Dame alumni got together recently in Milwaukee for an 'informal reunion.' From left to right; Mark A. CuUcn, '16, president of J. P. Cullen & Son, Janesville, Wis.; John **Red" Tobin, '34, head of the VA office in Madison, Wis.; and John Paul Cullen, '22, manager of the Regional VA Office, Milwaukee, and brother of Mark's. 
GEORGE H. ROHRS, '33 

George H. Rohrs \vas recently elected president of the Metropolitan Petroleum Corporation. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1933 and re­ceived a Master's degree from Harvard Business School two years later. He was a statistician and investment an­alyst for Homblower and Weeks, New York investment firm, from 1935-40. 
He was an officer with Storewide Sales Service, Inc., and American Processing Company bet\veen 1940 and 1944. Following that period, he served as general manager of the Mara in-,, terests in New York including the New' York Football Giants, the IMara Fuel Company and Mara Television, Ltd. 
Joining Metropolitan Petroleum Company as vice-president in charge of industrial sales in 1952, George was elected executive vice-president and a member of the board of directors t\vo^ years later. Metropolitan Petroleum' Corporation is the largest independent wholesaler of fuel oil in New York City and operates some 18 water ter­minals in the East Coast area. 
George has taken an active interest in the Notre Dame alumni organiza­tion, having been president of thes Notre Dame Club of New York in 1943-44 and is also current president of the Class of 1933. 
Married to the former Jeanne Phe­lan, Mr. and Mrs. Rohrs reside in Yonkers, N. Y., with their four chil­dren, Ellen, 17, Judidi, 16, George, 12, and Christopher, 7. • 
36 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
.^o n taxes in the June 1954 issue of CPA Magazine. CHET RICE is a manufacturers agent with headquarters at 15209 Detroit Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio. 
LEO ROZUM is President of the Rozum Motor Company in Mitchell, South Dakota. Leo has two sons, ages 14 and 17 yean. 
CHARLEY SCHUESSLER is General Superin­tendent with the John C. TuIIy Company in Chi­cago. He has t^vo children ages 13 and 18. His son is at Notre Dame. 

^ VINCE STACE is assistant to the Manager of 
- Purchases at the Detroit Edison Company, Detroit, Michigan. He has one daughter, age 13. Vince sees JOE SIMONIN and DUTCH RIEDER. Dutch, a5 you knou', has been appointed Superintendent of the newest Detroit Edison Power Plant (River Rouge Plant). This plant is the largest Detroit Edison Power plant and has the largest steam tur­bine ever installed. 
VIC ZIMMERM»\N is secretary in sales for Gordon D. Murphy, Inc., food brokerage in New York City. Vic has one son, age 3. 
• CHARLEY SHELANSKEY is e-tamincr of mu­nicipal affairs with the New York State Depart­ment of Audit and Control in Nwtf York City. He has tJu-ee children, ages 7 to 20 years. His oldest son is at the U. S. Merchant Marine Academy and another is at the Potsdam State Teachers College. 
Father FRANCIS X. QUINN, C.S.C., is Chap­lain, St. Joseph of Holy Cross, Valatie, N. Y. 
I trust all of you are planning to attend the Class of 1928 cocktail party at the Morris Inn immediately following the Oklahoma game on October 27. Your friends attending the game 
0with you are invited to accompany you to the party. 
Father ANDY MULREiVNY, CS.a , as you know, is assistant pastor, St. Mar>-'s Cathedral, Austin, Te-xas. Father Andy offered a Mass for the linng class members on June 10, two years prior to our 30th reunion in 1958. He also con­tinues to remember all of us *28ers in his daily Masses. 
I appreciate the many letters I have received offering yoiu- help in preparing for our 30th re­union in 1958. I am certain it will be the largest 
"^and best 30-year reunion in the history* of Notre 
^Dame . Thanks also for the interest and help you have given me this year in sending news so I can help keep the class together through this column. 
ED RAFTER reports that DICK PHELAN also attended the Old Timers game. Ed tells mc Dick's son, a freshman at N.D., played in that game. Ed also informs me that JOE DYER's son is active in dramatics on TV. Joe is in the sales field in the construction business. 
I saw JOHN RODGERS at the eighth-grade graduation of his daughter and my son. According to John, HAL REYNOLDS had another child. 
01 heard in Washington that JOHN &\VANAUGH of Chicago became a father for the fifth lime re­cently. Do I have to rely entirely on Chicago attorneys for our vital statistics? These are the first birth notices I have received in some time. 
Congratulations to GEORGE KELLEY and JOE McNAMARA on their "Man of the Year" aw-ards by the Youngstown and Connecticut clubs. In ad­dition to George and Joe, the Class of 1928 was represented by pictures of the following classmates in the June-July ALUMNUS: ED QUINN, GOR­DON BENNETT, JIM ALLAN, VINCE a\RNEY 
f and JOHN R. MURPHY. 
Graduations brought other classmates together— BILL JONES attended a party given by HUDSON JEFFERIES in Washington in honor of the gradua­tion of his daughter from Visitation College. JOE LANGTON mentioned that he saw JOHN FRED­ERICK at the St. Mary*s Academy graduation. He also reports that PAUL BUTLER, LOU NEIZER, TOM BYRNE and JOHN WOLF had daughters graduated at St. Mar>-*s College. 
192 9 D°°3]d J. Plunkett Biology Department Notre Dame, Indiana 
103 A Devere Plunkett I 74 V o'Shaughnessy HaU Notre Dame, Indiana 
Barbara Winkler, daughter of Mr. and Mr5. GEORGE WINKLER, JR., was married on June ^13 in Rockville Centre, L. I., N. Y. 
193 1 James T. Doyle 
902 Oakton Street 
Evanston, Illinois 

REUNION REGISTRANTS AT LAW BLDG. JOHN W. ANDERSON, PHILIP ANGSTEN, TOM ASHE, J. HASKELL ASKEW, BOB BAER, RICHARD BAKER, JERRY BALL, RICHARD BARBER, ED J. BARNEY, FRAN BEAUPRE, RUSS BEAUPRE, JOHN D. BELTON, H. L. BENNEFT, ARTHUR BERGEN, JAMES BIG­GINS, NICK BOHLING, JOSEPH BOYLAND, AUSTIN BOYLE, ART BRADLEY, EARL BRIEGER, JOHN C. BURNS, VINCE BUSCH, FRANK P. BUTORAC, WALTER E. CAHILL, JAMES CARROLL, CILVRLES CASHMAN, FRANK J. CHAMBERS, WILLLVM B. CHAWGO, RAY COLLINS, MLLIAM E. COONEY, GEORGE COSTELLO, CARL CRONIN, JERRY CRO^VLEY, REV. THOM<\S CULHANE, C.S.C., JERRY CULLIGAN, PAUL GUSHING, CHARLIE CUSHWA, RALPH DALTON, WALTER T. De-B.AENE, JOSEPH DEEB, JOHN E. DEMPSEY, GERALD DESMOND, FR.\NCIS J. D'MUHALA, MARTIN J. DOWLING, JR., MARTIN DOW­NEY, JAMES T. DOYLE, ED DR,\VES, JOSEPH 
M. DUNNE, CURE.NCE A. DURBIN, DAN EG.\N, DR. LOUIS ESPOSrrO, PAUL T. FEH­LIG, JOHN FETZER, OLIVER FIELD, GLEN FINDLEY, C. L. FISHER, JOHN E. FOLEY, 
F. E. FOLEY, CL-VRENCE PUTTER, \\1LLUM 
V. GADEK, ALFRED E. GALL, J. B. GAL­LAGHER, JOHN R. GANNON, JOE GARDE­WINE, LEO GARLAND, MATT K. GARRIGAN, NOEL "BUD" GlES, BILL GINDER, LOUIS GODOY, FRANK GOETZ, JOSEPH T. GOL,\­BOWSKI, ^UURICE A. GOODE\'E, BOB H. GORE, PHIL GR/\HAM, PAUL GRANT, JA.MES J. GRIFFLN, AL GRISANTI, DAN H.\LPIN, L/WRENCE H. HALTER, JOHN H. H/\NSON, LOUIS HEITGER, FRANK J. HENNEBERGER, JOHN P. HICKEY, FR.\NK HOLLAND, JOE HUGHES, GEORGE A. JACKOBOICE, BILL KARL, ANDREW J. KATA, GEORGE F. KAV­ANAUGH, JAMES KEi\RNEY, JOSEPH KE.\R­NEY, JA.MES E. KEATING, WALTER KELLEY, ROBERT KENDALL, FR,\NK KERSJES, LEO KLETZLY, \'ERNON J. KNOX, AL KOLSKI, KENNETH J. KONOP, HENRY KOPEK, LAR­RY KRAL, WALTER LANGFORD, EDWARD P. LANGENFELD, JACK LAUX, BILL LEAHY, DANIEL LENCIONI, CHARLES F. LENNON, BEN LENOUE, FIU\NCIS M. LOXEY, DON MacDONALD, CIL\RLES A. McVLEER, FRANK McCULLOUGH, BERNARD J. McGLONE, THOMAS M. McGOUGH, JOHN McfN-TYRE, JERRY McKEE\'ER, ARTHUR .McMANMON, JOHN J. .McMURR,\Y, JAMES McQUAID, ED­
WARD B. MADDEN, EDWARD J. &LUION, BERT MALONEY, ARTHUR MARGRAF, BROTTHER MARTIN JOHN (GEORGE H. SPALDING), ROBERT MASSEY, JOHN MEAGHER, HARRY L. MERDZINSKI, BERT METZGER, DONALD E. KflHAN, CHARLES MILTNER, LARRY MOLLER, TOM MONA­HAN, MOON (LARRY) limLLINS, JIM MUL­VANEY, DON MURPHY, JAMES G. MURPHY, WALT MURPHY, ED MURRAY, JAMES MUR­RAY, FRANK J. NOLL, JR., BEN OAKES. EARL J. O'BRIEN, JAMES J. O'BRIEN, PAUL 
A. O'CONNOR, MJ)., DICK O'DONNELL, BILL O'.MALLEY, BART O'SHEA, LEW O'SHEA, DONALD OTOOLE, ROBERT PENDERGAST, GIL PERRY, WALTER PHIUPP, VINCENT G. PONIC, HOLLAND J. POULDf, PHIL PREN­DERGAST, FRED RAHAIN, W. J. REDMOND, MAURICE J. REGAN, WARNER REISING, LOUIS A. RHOMBERG, WALTER R. RTOLEY, AL ROCHE, BROTHER ROGER, CJS.C, JAMES RUDOLPH, EDWARD RYAN, T. G. SALMON, JOHN SAUNDERS, REV. PHILIPP SCHAERF, aS.C , TONY SCHREINER, GIL SEAMAN, HOBART SHEAN, JAMES SKAHAN, JOHN C. SHIVELY, CHARLES SPINELLI, HAROLD J. STELZER, AL STEFAN, JOHN SULLIVAN, SPIKE SULLIVAN, VINCENT SUL­LIVAN, DEON SUTTON, FRANK J. SVOBODA, E.MIL TELFEL, ^VILBERT TERRE, K. D. TO­HULKA, ALBERT J. TUOHY, FRANCIS VAL­LEE, FRANK C. WACHSMFrH, JOHN VfEIB-LER, JOSEPH WETLI, JERRY ^VIGGINS, JO­SEPH A. •WILK, JOHN E. WLLIAMS. LES \VISDA. 
(Ed. Note: Class Secretary JIM DOYLE asked for a 'leave of absence' regarding this issue since copy is due on the press a week follo^ving Reunion. He'll be back on the job for the Fall edition. Our sincere thanks to Local Chairman JOHN Mc-INTYRE for a tremendous job exceedingly well done. He worked very hard on many, many details arising on campus which pertained to the weekend. The Alumni Oflice is equally grateful to JIM DOYLE, BILL LE.-\HY and all the others who cooperated in every way to make the 25th a most enjoyable occasion for the Men of '31. JC). 
TOM GOLDEN, although disabled, is busy sell­ing fire extinguishers in Anaconda, Montana. Any­body interested in a midget extinguisher for a mere $3.98 shoiild contact Tom at Bo.x 1412 io Anaconda. 
JOSEPH F. DEEB, former United States district attorney for Western Michigan, has been appointed to the State Board of Law E.xaminer3 by Governor 
G. Mennen Williams. THOMAS H. VAUGHN, vice-president of Re-
NAUGATUCK V.\LLEY—Thomas P. Eagan (left), was named Man of the Year by the Naugatuck Valley alumni. Eagan was the retiring vice-president. Others, from left to right: Norbert F. Henebry, re-elected secretary; James J. Scigliano, newly-elected president; and Maurice Noonan, retiring president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
search and Development at the Colgate-Palmolive GEL, FRANK M. JOYCE, KEVIN KEHOE, DON what he is doing. Today, I checked with the Company, has been elected v-ice-prcsidcnt of the KELLY, JOHN KENNEDY. JAMES KIRBY. Aliunni office and his current mailing address is 4 ladustrial Research Institute, Inc. Tom Is aho LOUIS LANGE, KENNETH F. LA^VS, FRANCIS R. R. 2, Huntington Road, Amelia, Ohio. No^v president-elect and a director. This is an orsan-LAYDEN. D. E. LOVELL, ROBERT A. Mc-somebody find out what he is doing. Perhaps izatiou of 143 major manufacturing companies with AULIFFE, DON S. McCORMICK. ED McNALLY, Miller will tell us himself. 
industrial research facilities. 
193 2 J^™« ^ Collins 
• ''' ^ 3336 Kenmore Road Sbaker Heights, Ohio 
£ 5 V6AR 
Reunion 
i Te-9 a 
DR. DONALD B. KILLIAN has been appointed sales manager in Dupont's WTiite Pigments De­partment. Don has been with the Dupont Com­pany since he received his Ph.D. from Notre Dame in 1936. 
1933 Joseph A. McCahe 632 Forest Avenue River Forest, Illinois 
JOHN A. MATOUSEK has been named assistant to the president of Bakcr-Raulang Company, Cleve­land, manufacturer of s^s and electric materials handling trucks. 
1934 ^' ^^^^^^ ^^cy 
18843 Ingle^vood Avenue Rocky River, Ohio 
jrercymoimt Coimtry Day School in Northern Cumberland, R. I., honored JOHN J. McLAUGH-LIN recently for *'his unfailing support that gave the Sisters of Mercy the courage to undertake the establishment of such a school." An au*ard was presented to John by the Mercymount Mothers Club. 
(Ed. Note: Ed is the new president of the Cleve­land ND Club. JC) 
1935 Franklyn C Hochreiter 1327 Pcnt^vood Road Baltimore, Maryland 
PAUL A. FERGUS has announced the formation of a national advertising agency, the Paul A. Fergus Company, -with offices at 120 Franklin Place, South Bend. Fergus is president. The office is staffed to handle all phases of advertising and to offer counseling in merdiandising and marketing. 
1 93A Rohert F. Ervin 119 E. Glendale Road South Bend, Ind. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS AT LAAV BLDG. 
FREDERICK ARAHNGTON, BERT BAUR, WILLIAM K. BAYER. JR., HARRY BECKER, JOSEPH BECKMAN. ^VILLIAM BELDEN, GEORGE BINDER, DON BOCKEN, ^VILLIAAi BOWES. JOHN C. BRADY, CUFFORD BROWN, ROBERT T. BURKE, JR., CONAL BYRN'E, H. 
E. CALVERT, GEORGE CANNON, ALBERT CAREY, JOSEPH CAREY. FRED CARIDEO, NORVIN L. CASPER, M. E. CLEMENTS, NOR­MAN CONLEY. MORRIS B. COOPER, ART CRONIN, PAUL CUMMINGS, JOHN DcMOTS. HENRY DENDLER, PATRICK DIZENZO, JO­SEPH D. DONNLNO, PAT DONOVAN. PAUL DOYLE, ED R. DUNN. TOM DUNN, JAMES 
J. DUTTON, ROBERT F. ERVIN. JAMES M. FOOHEY, JOSEPH P. FOX, FREDERICK R. GABRIEL. WILLIAM F. GILLESPIE. LEROY GONRING. HERAUN W. GREEN, REV. ED­MOND F. HAMMER, AL HECKLER. ANDY HELMUTH, JAMES J. HERBY, R. A. HERRLY, LEO J. HOFSCHNEIDER, ANDREW HUFNA­
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 
GEORGE McNEILE, FRED McNEILL, JOE Mac­"SKc had a wonderful weekend and for those of 
DONALD. BOB MacDONALD, FRANK MAR­•>*ou who were not here, wc begin our plea now TIN, TONY MAZZIOTTI, GEORGE G. MEAGH­to make arrangements so that you will be here fiveER, THO.MAS J. MEAGHER, GEORGE MIL­years hence. I am sure that those who made it TON, LEE MOORMAN, ARTHUR J. MULHOL-this year will need no lu^ng to come back. LEE LAND, FRANK J. MURRAY, VINCE J. NARISI, MOORMAN and his \'arious assistants did a ter^ CHARLIE NEVILS, JOE NEWMAN, JOHN W. 
rific job in getting about 111 members of our class NORTON. DAN O'BRIEN, WILLIAM M. 
here. Many thanks to Lee and I know that I can O'CONNOR. JIM 0*KEEFE, JOSEPH I. 
depend upon him for help during these next fi^-e^O'NEILL, KEVIN O'NEILL, JUSTIN OTOOLE, 
years. 
LARRY PALKOVIC, AUGUST PETRILLO, ED 

PHILLIPS, LINDSAY PHOEBUS, HENRY F. .•\t our Friday night get-together, the class gave POJMAN, JOSEPH J. PONZEVIC, THOMAS M. JOE O'NEILL a Rosary in honor of his presidency REARDON, ALFRED H. ROHOL, FRANK RYAN, of the Notre Dame Alumni Association. We all JOHN F. RYAN, CHARLES L. SCHAFFLER, know that he will do a terrific job for the Univer­ROBERT J. SCHMELZLE, \VILLIAM SCHMUHL, sity and the Alumni during his term of office. ANTHONY T. SCOLARO, JOHN SHAFFER, In addition to Joe, the other members of our class 
JACK SHEEHAN, JIM SHERRY, ^VILLIAM J. are on the Alumni Board of Directors — MIKE SMITH, KEN STILLEY, AV. A. STILLWAGON, LAYDEN and PAT FISHER. FATHER ED IL\M­RICHARD SULLIVAN, GENE TOBIN, TOM MER said the Class Mass on Saturday morning in TOBIN, PAT TOFURI, T. J. TREACY, JERRY the Morrisscy Hall Chapel. He is presently as-^ VOGEL, FRED C. \VEBER, JACK WHITAKER, signed to St. Thomas Aquinas Church in the 
G. M. ^VOLF. RENO ZARANTONELLO. Bronx, New York. TOM GRfVDY got to the re­union on time—11:00 Sunday morning. Hb only PAUL J. DOYLE has been elected to the board excuse was that the long years of being in front of directors of the C. H. \Vliecler Manufacturing of the band had made him decide to see what it Company, Philadelphia, Pa. Paul is district sales was like to bring up the rear. The Ohio State manager of Carbide and Carbon Company in game of 1935 u'as replayed at least a dozen times Houston, Texas, and is also treasurer of Corbonna, over the weekend and it was generally conceded Incorporated, Investments. that HANK POJMAN talked the best game. Hank DON DRAPER is now rated as one of the top is going into the mortgage-loan business in Broad-
landscape artists in the Missouri Ozarks. Recently \'iew. 111., and %vill welcome all customers into his Don and his paintings were the subjects of a fea-new building. PAUL DOYLE is with Carbide and( tm-e article in the Kansas City Star. He is presi­Carbon in Houston, Texas; BILL BAYER u-ith* dent of the Ozark Artists Guild and is district of­Quaker State Oil in Oil City, Pa.; DR. NORV. fice manager for the Pet Milk Company. CASPER is a surgeon in Louisville, Ky.; TOM 
TRACY is in charge of sales for Merck and Com­From DR. LOUIS GABRIEL: I am sorry, as a pany in Rahway, N. J.; JIM SHERRY is purchas­result of last moment developments, that I will ing agent for the Buick DiWston of General Motors be imable to attend the 20-Yc3r Reunion as in Flint, Mich.; FRAN JOYCE has his own busi­planned. 
ness—the Maumee Chemical Company in Toledo, In a strictly dishonest election, JIAf SHERRY. Ohio; FRED \VEBER is in paint manufacturing in 2039 Crooked Lane Drive, Flint, Michigan, was St. Loufa, Mo.; DR. KEN LA^VS is practicing elected president of our class and since I had by medicine in Lafayette, Ind.; JIM FOOHEY is an chance carried a slight bank balance from our architect in Fort ^Va>'ne, Ind., and Grand Rapids, I5th reunion, I was elected secretary-treasurer. Mich., and has done a considerable amount of 
Therefore, the recording of your class activities and work in South Bend on Catholic school architec-* the plans for our Silver Jubilee in 1961 are in ture; GEORGE CAN'NON, recently married, is in highly questionable but enthusiastic hands. You'll the foundry business in Muskegon, Mich. all be hearing from Jim before long. Upon coming back to work this Afonday morning following our 
Well, fellou*s, this is a little start toward what 20th reunion, I find that JOHN CACKLEY has we hope ^nll be a useful column for our class. 

already set a deadline for items to be included There were many other items of interest collected in the next issue of the ALUMNUS. With this over the weekend but neither space nor time permit short notice, we must be contented ^vith a few more now. Hope to catch up next time. The random notes and then toss the ball to all of you 

amount of news ^vill depend upon cooperation of to keep lis informed and supplied with news letters all but since I am located on the campus, I assure so that we can recoup the column space that the you we will get the information to the ALUMNUS ALUMNTJS owes us. 
without too much difficulty. In the near futtux, we There were dozens of suggestions as to what plan to have some sort of form for you to fill your new Secretary should do but the first request out ia order for us to get a card file started and \%-as to locate MILLER MALLET and find out thus be able to keep up uith all of your activities. 
PHILADELPHIA—(Left to right): Club President Bill Burns and Past Presidents Jack Dempsey, John Neeson, Jr., Walt Ridley and Cliff Prodehl headed the Notre Dame men ^vho attended the weekend retreat in April at St. Joseph's in the Hills, Malvern, Pa. 
WASHINGTON, D. C.—^Participants at Universal Notre Dame Night observance include, left to right: Howard J. Schellenberg, Jr., retiring president; Father Arthur Hope, C.S.C., ^principal speaker; Dr. Matthew J. Sullivan, incoming president; Joseph L. Fitzmaurice, in­
coming vice-president; Walter J. Murphy, incoming secretary; Girard 
J. O'Brien, incoming treasurer. 
One lasC word of thanks to the local committee membcni who spent many hours preparing for this weekend. They included JERRY VOGEL, chair­man; MORRIS COOPER, CHUCK PIERONI, PETE NEMETH, BOB COOK, HARRY BECKER, 

#and RAY HERRLY. The class extends its sincere sympatliy to BOB COOK whose wife died two days before the reunion. 
1 037 P^vl Foley, Vice-President McCann-Erickson, Inc. 3346 Penobscot BIdg. Detroit 26, Michigan 
m^: '20 yean 
ReuriiOKL June (7-8-9 , 

$ LOUIS S. MOREAU works for the Ethical Phar­maceutical Company in San Antonio, Texas. 
1 938 C^^^^ ^f- Callahan 
• '•'* ' Sports Publicity Dcpt. Notre Dame, Indiana 
BROTHER HILARION, CS.C , \vho has been director of Michigan's BoyswUe for the past seven 

^'ean , is being transferred to Dallas, Texas, where he will be director of Boys Ranch. Boysville, Michigan, is located about 45 miles west of De­troit and is managed by the Brothers of Holy Cross for the Knights of Columbus in the State of ^Cchigan. 
JOSEPH RUETZ was a member of the panel which discussed education for Catholic lay leader­ship at the annual ACCM convention recently held in San Francisco. Joe is assistant football coacli at Stanford University. 

f Mr. and Mrs. JACK SOLON recently announced the birth of their first son, Stephen Michael. The 
Solons also have t^^i'o daughters, Kristina, 8, and Debbie, 2. Jack now has his own business and Is a public relations counsel in Toledo. His address is Jack Solon Associates, 1718 Jefferson Avenue, Toledo 2, Ohio. 
DR. PAUL R. LOCHER, Georgetou-n University history professor, will be the guest of the ^Vest German government for one month this summer. He will participate in an exchange program set up to acquaint Americans with present-day life and institutions in Germany. Dr. Locher scr\-es as ad­\'isor to foreign students at Georgetown. 
1 939 ^Villiam O'Toole 176 Hillside Avenue Rochester, New York 

G. F. PL.-\IX has been named comptroller and as­sistant treasurer of the Cclluplastic Corporation, Xe^v-ark, N. J. He had previously served the firm in the position of personnel director and adminis­trative sales manager. Mr. and Afrs. Plain and their three children live at 42 Red Road, Chatham, 
N. J. 
EDWARD J. CVRROLL has been appointed assistant sales manager of Kennametal, Inc., Bed­ford, Pa. Ed also has a master of business ad­ministration degree from Hani"ard and has been teaching a Pcnn State extension course for mine inspectors. 
1940 J^unes G. Brown 
• '^^ ^ 52 Vanderbilt Ave. New York, New York 

About three years ago I was having Iun<i with GERRY SEXTON and in the course of the con­versation I remarked that not enough fello^vs sent in news items to the 1940 column. So Gerry with a \vry smile replied: "Well all you have to do Junior, is sit down and write the man a few lines and things will improve.*' Needless to say I never did get around to writing and I guess very few others have found time cither. Ho\^-ever, \vc have a little change of personnel as they say and per­haps you fellows—or your wives—^will find time to feed me witli some ne^« of the whereabouts and the doings of the men of 1940. It is alwa)^ interesting as to how a person inherits a job of this sort—mostly by opening his mouth at the \%Tong time. But between a half-vohmteer and a half-push I am now your 1940 correspondent. 
I really took the assignment because being out selling all day I frequently bump into a good many of the fellows in the course of a day's travel. In addition, I have been in the life insurance busi­ness for the past six years and rince I have done work for many of our group I have a rather in­timate knmvledge of the family affairs of many of the fellows in whom you are no doubt interested. I am hoping that my personal file will keep me going for a couple of issues and from that point on you will all have to help with a contribution. The Alumni Office feels that this cohmin is largely responsible for maintaining class interest in between reunions. So with everyone's help we will try to do just that. Incidentally, the reunion last year \\-as a very wonderful affair. Not really just an­other social function but something that all should try to attend. For many, including myself, it was the first %asit to the campus since graduation and I personally found the time spent on the campus very moving in many respects. It was wonderful seeing so many of ^ e fellows for the first time in years and also a source of disappointment in missing faces that each had kind of looked forward to seeing. It is something that will be mentioned in the column from time to time not so much m the vfzy of promotion but because it is an indi­vidual experience that you will find very hard to duplicate. 
There are a number of items that I would like to discuss with you before getting into the usual chatter: 
First of all the Brown family is li^ang out in the suburban area of New York City and we would like to extend an invitation to all of you to visit with us if you should come to the dty. We are 10 minutes a^vay from Jones Beach which is the finest sea bathing on the Atlantic coast. (Florida resi­dents please note absence of Portuguese Man-of-War). We are within 13 minutes of three fine golf courses. If you wish to see the sights in to^vn, you can leave the kids with us and take Mama in to see the dty lights. We have two children and one-half acre of pasture so yours won't bother us in the least. The hotels in New York con be expensive so you con save a few pennies. And finally there arc any number of fd­Io%vs from our class in the immediate vicinity who would be glad to see you. If you prefer to stay in to^vn, at least give me a call. If you arc in town on business and only staying a short time please call; we can have lunch. If you are look­ing for tickets to sporting events or the theatre, a native son frequendy has a few wrinkles that the visitor does not know about. 
Secondly, in many of the other columns I notice reference to ND men in one section of the comitry doing business v/ith ND men in other sections of the country. This is particularly true of graduates who arc older than we. So when you write, please mention what you are doing in a business way and perhaps someone may read it and a contact be established. 
Thirdly, I also notice that other classes have some s>'stem of doss dues. Now, I do not relish the prospect of keeping a set of books or acting in a fidudary capadty but at the reunion last year we noticed that the dass which was housed in Lyons had things arranged in a very nice way. Each evening they had a bar set up in the arch­^vay and ser^'ed drinks and hors d'oeuvrcs before diimer. We found out that the members of the dass had arranged for these dilferent items before­hand and financed it with the funds that were in the dass treasury. Let's hear your reaction. Some­thing extremely nominal, i.e., $1.00 annually may be in order. 
So .. . . u'ith my yearbook on my left and my personal file on my right here goes with the scoop ... . in alphabetical order. 
RAY ALLEN ^vas at the reunion. I did not get a chance to get any particulars about his per­sonal affairs. HANK ARMITAGE attended the re­union. I bumped into him just as he was coming across the diagonal from the law building to Mor> rissey with his suitcase. From the look on Hank's face that is still a long walk with a suitcase. Hank is a practidng physidan up in Ne^r England. GEORGE BECKER is living down in Texas and flying for one of the commerdal airlines. Georgie is still a real hot ticket, plenty of laughs. He apparently sees a good bit of BOB CONNOLLY and WALT FLEMING. 
JACK COLE drove a few of us over to one of the ndghboring tou'ns on Saturday nite for a little refreshment. Jack Ii\-es and is working in the South Bend area. TOM BRENNAN was with us. Tom is working for a sted company in the Chicago area. Married, with a couple of children. 
Brown is easy. A little zig-zagging after 

Notu Dame Alumnus^ August^ 1956 39 
psWilCHIflLUmilllS" 
JOHN C. MO^VBRAY, '49 
A recent appointee as United States Referee in Bankruptcy is John G. Mowbray of Las Vegas, Nevada. He graduated from the Notre Dame Law School in 1949 and is a member o£ both the Illinois and Nevada Bars. Jolm was assistant district attorney in Las Vegas from 1949 to 1953. At the present time he is also engaged in the private practice of law. 

Jolm has been active in various or­ganizations since moving to Las Vegas. He is a past president of the Serra Club and also a past grand knight of the Knights of Columbus Council in that city. Mowbray is the district gov­ernor-elect for Serra International, a Catholic businessmen's club. He served in Korea as one of the military gov­ernors from 1945 to 1946 and is a ma­jor in the United States Air Force Re­serve. He is a member of both the American Legion and Veterans of For­eign Wars. 
Mr. and Mrs. Mo\vbray have three sons, Johnny, Romy and Jerry and the family residence is 1815 South 15th Street, Marycrest, Las Vegas, Nevada. 
^V. W. n wth his ovm building corp. and then into selling ydth an e\'entual ending; in the life insurance field. Has three parts of C.L.ir. finished and hoping to complete the requirements ^x'ithin the year. Alarried and has a boy and a girl. Has 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1956 
a garage set up u-ith boxing' equipment to stay in shape. Finds the exercise very enjoyable since Xfaguirc nci.'cr comes around the garage. See TONY CELLA occasionally and at the reunion. Tony was in the retail liquor business but has re­cently sold his interest and v>-as erecting an office building on Long Island. Tony is mairied. BOB CENTLrVRE wzs at the reunion. No vital statistics. 
JIM CLEARY was at the reunion. You may have noticed in the various financial publications or the financial pages of ^-our local ne^vspaper about a month ago that the 'Tfoung Presidents Organization" held its annual meeting in Holly­wood, Florida. This is a group of men who are presidents of their respective corporations through­out the nation: the corporations are doing a mil­lion dollars gross and the men arc under age forty. Our class has two members. Jim Cleary is one and at the recent meeting BILL CX>LEMAN also of our class was elected president of the organiza­tion. This is extremely fast company and both of these s^ntlcmtin are monng real well. Someone mentioned that he had bumped into HANK COL­LINS who is teaching at one of the Colleges in the mid-South. Perhaps Virginia or Maryland. BOB CONNOLLY was at the reunion. Bob is an attorney, married, and has a Socle of children. GEORGE COSTELLO. Had some conversaU*on with George at a packaging exposition down in Atlantic City, Ne^v^ Jersey, about sLx years ago. He was then mth the Dobeckmun Corp. No recent data. Incidentally for the benefit of the rest of the golfing brigade. SCHALLER. HAGEN, DONO­HUE, CENTLIVRE et al, I see SAM NEILD quite often. He is in the advertising business here in XeAv York. Curtis Publishing Co., lives up in Conn. The day that I started this column I ran Into PAUL MENNEG who is doing public relations work %vith McCann-Erlckson here in New York. He mentioned that Sam had just won the adver­tisers golf tournament the previous day. Paul, who is originally from Long Island is now living up in Conn., married and has three children. 
Sec JOE CUMMINGS quite often. Joe is doing accounting ^vork and was recently on lend-lease irom his Unii to the Federal Gov't, as a represen­tative of business in the compilation of the 1954 Revenue Act. He lived down in Virginia for about a year and is no%v back and anchored in Mt. Kisco, New York. Joe married a ver>- charming girl from Brooilyii and they have recently had thcir fourth child. Joe has been made a. partner in the accounting firm of Peat-Manvick-Mitchdl. We now have two members of '40 %tfho arc partners in a national accoimting firm. The other is PHIL SAXDMAIER. This represents quite an accom­plishment in the accounting field. I played a few holes with Phil in the golf tournament and I think he is Itring over in "Scvf Jersey. He is a partner with Kasklns-Sclls. Phil was playing with JIM HUFNAGEL. No vital sutlsu'cs. DOC CURRAN was at the reunion and he really looks just the same as the day we left school. 
I bumped into JOE DEFRANCO about two years ago. Joe had been ^vith the F.B.I, for a number of years and was just switching to the security di\Tsion of Republic Aviation. In the meantime be has changed to the Waterfront Com­mission here in N, Y. 
JIM DELAHANTY was at the reunion and I think is IKing In South Bend. After the reunion I firove up to Chicago with LARRY DEVEREUX and CHUBBY GILLILAND. Larry lives and works in Chicago and has a couple of children. Chub is with the Missouri State Insurance Com­mission. He is not married, does a great deal of traveling and is still a hot ticket. He taught me a new song on the way up to Chicago. More fun than ever. 
On the way out to South Bend the train passed through Canajoharie, N. Y., home of Bcedh-Nut and EDGAR DOUGHERTY. I saw Edgar in 1946 at Hialeah Race Track of all places. He was then attending the Univ. of ^fiami law school haWng been sidetracked from school during the ^var. No recent data, but if I get up to the races at Sara­toga this summer I'll have more data In the fall. 
HANK DOWD lives out on Long Island and among other ventiu'cs Is in the shipping business, i.e., arranging for the transportation of cargo to different ports of the world. He is married and has a number of children. Saw Hank at a dance about a month ago with: JIM KELLY. Jim lives out here on the island, married, also a number of children and has been doing aeronautical engineer­ing work \%'ith the Grumman Corp. since gradua­tion. JOHN MARTIN is an attorney, lives out on the island, married and has a few children. Gets back to school more than the rest of us by engi­neering business trips at opporttme times. Lucky fellow. BUD O'DONIVELL Is In the tug boat, business here in N. Y, harbor. Married and also*^^ a few children. 
Wthin the past four years I have met BILL FAY at precisely the same time and place on two diflerent occasions .. . at 8 in the morning and at the back entrance to St. Patrick's Cathedral. Bill ^vas a sports writer on the staff of Collier's. He is now doing free-lance writing and in the past few years has helped select the Collier's All-Amcrican team. He is llraig in Evanston, suburb of Chicago, married and has children. 
THOMAS P. WALL, JR., was general chainnan^ of the fourth annual Southeastern Regional Society 4 for the Advancement of Management Conference. Tom lives in Nashville, Tenn., and served as na­tional director for the conference committee. 
GENE LEONARD gave up his general practice in Rockford and is now in Afilwaukee {with wile and six children} for three years study in ortho­pedic surgery. 
This looks like it for now men. No sense using up all my ammimition in the first issue. As I read this material over, some of the facts from the FOunion are a little \'ague and some reek of^ pure scuttlebut. All you have to do to pinpoint the info is just drop a line. Also, the material is decidedly eastern and practically local. My next contact will be with a traveling salesman who will furnish new^ on a national basis. All kidding aside, I am depending on all of you. Duffy, Liston, Masterson In Chicago; Burke, Eby, Delahanty in South Bend; Dick Lyng in California, McCarthy, O'Gorman In Buffalo; Cleary, Caird in the Detroit area; Gleason, Schaller in the Mih^-aukee area. Now that you fellrnvs are in the big leagues, '>'ou should have something to write about. Ciolino and ^ Bangert must see somebody in their travels^ Andf^ so on. Just sit one of the girls in the ofiice down . . . not on your lap . . . and dictate a few lines. Put a reminder on >-our calendar NOW, 
10^ 1 James F. Spellman James F. Spellman Co. 7 East 42nd St. New York 17, N. Y. 
REUNION REGISTRi\NTS AT LAAV BLDG. .* 

LOUIS APONE, ROBERT BARTL. ROY BAIRLEY, FRANCIS BEHE, DONALD BOSS. ROBERT BOYLE, DAN BRADLEY, JOE BROUS­SARD, BILL BUENGER, ROBERT BURNS, BILL BURNS, JAMES CARROLL, DONALD CASSIDY, JOSEPH CATTIE, RAY CLARKE, E. L. COL­BERT, T. H. CONNOR, BILL COTTER, ED COUSINEAU, WILSON CRANDALL, \VALTER CRONIN, TOM CURRIGAN, TOM DELIA, 
CHICAGO—Patrick F. Crowley receives--^ the congratulations of Rev. Edmmid P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president^ when Pat was given the "Man of the Year" Award at the club's nnnnnl banquet ob­
serving UND Night, 

CHARLES DILLON, FRANK DOODY, G. W. DUCKWORTH, ED EDMONDS, RICHARD 
•VERROAD, GEORGE FERRICK, BEN FISH­BURNE, AL FRERICKS, JAMES GARTLAND, CYRIL GARVEY, LEE GARVEY, WILLIAM GARVEY, RALPH GERRA, HARRY GOTTRON, CHARLES GREENE, JOSEPH GUILTINAN, AL­FRED HAMMER, JAMES H,\NNIG,\N, ,\N­THONY HEINZEN, WILLIAM HENNESSEY, JERRY HICKEY, FRANK HOPKINS, BILL HOYNE, ED HULTGREN, ROBERT JEHRING, JOE KALTENBACH, JOHN KANE, OS&\R KASTENS, JOHN KEEGAN, RAY KELLY, 
ROBERT KENNEY, DICK KERRIGAN, D. E. 
•RALOVEC, W. P. KRiVMER, MIKE LAM­BERT, JIM LANG, ROBERT LANGLOIS, SAL­VATORE LoPILUSA, HUGH UVUGHNA, J. V. L.AWLER, ARMAND LOPEZ, JACK LVCAS, MICHAEL McGVUGHEY, JAMES McGOVERN, WILLIAM McGOWAN, FRANK McCRODER, LAWRENCE McLAUGHLIN, THOMAS Mc-MANUS, JOHN MacCtVULEY, LOU MacKEN-ZIE, LIU'RENCE AfAJEU'SKI, H'fLLIAM MA-LiVNEY, RUBE MARQUARDT, EMERY MAR­TIN, GEORGE MILES, THOMAS MILES, BILL 
AIOULDER, PATRICK MULLIG.Wf, JAMES 
•URRiW , JAMES NEWL,VND, JACK O'BRIEN, RICHARD O'CONNOR, C. G. OLIVEROS, JOHN O'LOUGHLIN, R. K. OSBORN, JERRY PAVEGLIO, EDWARD POSNER, PAUL PUGLIA, GEORGE R,\SSAS, JAY REYNOLDS, LOUIS RIEGEL, ANTHONY ROMEO, VINCENT SCHIRF, R,\YMOND SCHLESIER, JACK SHA­FRANSKY, DICK SHAUGHNESSY, JOHN SIE­VERT, VINCE SM\TH, WILLIAM SOONG, JAMES SPELLMAN, REV. GILBERT STACK, ROBERT STACK, W. J. STURM, VAN SWALL, THONfAS TALTi', JA.MES TE.\GARDEN, 
JIROTHER THEODORE, C.S.C., JAMES TINNY, 
•O N TIEDEM,VN, PAUL VIGNOS, JOHN WALDRON, R. L. WALTER, MILTON WIL­LI.\.MS, WILLIAM WI1.SO.V and VERN WIT­KOWSKI. 
194 2 William E. Scanlan 
400 East lllth Street 
Chicago 28, Illinois 
(Reunion 
June i

I • 
M^J' ^-LASE has been prornotrd to assistant rc­giona! manager for Dodge in llic Atlanta region. He had formerly been a staff man in Dodge's central zone office in Cincinnati. 
Members of the Class of 1942 ulio are presidents 

of Notre Dame Alumni Clubs and who attended 
the Club Presidents Conference held at Notre 
Dame on June 6-8 are as follows: JAKE REICH­
ENSTEIX, Dallas; BOB SIBILSKY. Flint; JIM 
SCIGLIANO, Waterbury; BOB SHEEHAN, Tulsa; 
DON O'BRIEN, Houston; EMMETT WRIGHT, 
Chicago; JACK GORDON, Columbus; and EM­;JET T KEENAN, Davenport. 
1943 J*^^^ ^ Wiggins 
• '^' ^ 4800 Fairlawn Drive LaCanada, Califomja 
FRANKLYN STUART is a patient at Warm Springs, Georgia. lie would like to hear from his classmates. 
«
(Editor's note: JACK WIGGINS, your class sec-far)% became a failicr ior the fifth time recently len a new daughter was born to Mr. and Mrs. Wiggins. They have three girls and two boys.) 
The class treasurer, DON HELTZEL (4100 East Market St., R. D. No, 5, Warren, Ohio) acknowl­edged the receipt of $3 to the Class of '43 -Nfass Fund. Also, the name of Otto J. Seifert has been added to the list. Otto was killed in action over Guadalcanal while flying for the Marine Corps in World War H. We earnestly solicit your coopera­tion in sending ?. dollar bi|I to Don Heltzel at the above address so that we can gather a fund siifH­cirnt to see us through a few years for the memo­rial Mass each year; also, as wc learn of it, an individual Mass for any deceased members of the Class of 1943. To dale wc have had fewer than 20 contributionf. Please send the buck to Don today. 
ROBERT E. COSGROVE has been appointed sales manager and assistant secretary of General Acoustics, Inc., with headquarters in Chicago. 
194 4 George Bariscillo 
515 Fifth Avenue 
Bradley Beach, N, J. 

Had a welcome letter from ED KEMPF re­cently, filing his annual report from E\'ansviIIc, and filling us in on '44ers activity in southern Indiana: "Today's mail brought the march-April .\LUMNUS and I read the class 5ecretar>-'s plea for letters. Honestly, I'm sorr>* that I am so unreliable a.^; a writer but bclievo mc I have good intentions. Always glad to read your notes in the ALUMNUS. It reassures me that Youngstown (Ed. Note: reference to GRIFF ALLEN) still has pen. pencil and typewriter. Now, George, back to you and an explanation of the stationery. Cur­rently Vm the Grand Knight here and supplies are available. 
"I'll try to bring you up to date on Evans^illc Sotrc Darners, thumbnailed and earmarked *44. P.\UL UNVERZ..\GT, HENRY DEWES, TOM CLEMENS and ED KEMPF, that's me, .were the four intrepid souls from E\-ansvilIe to begin N.D. ureers in 1940. Paul, as far as I know, is still with Cro.'ilcy in Cincinnati. Hank is still in Evansville. real active and kicking and an engi­neer with Whirlpool-Seegcr Corp. Tom in the past two weeks has been transferred from San­tiago, Chile to Washington. D. C. and very much closer to home. In fact, his family expects him in ^^ay. As for yours truly, I am still in the wholesale liquor business and the proud father of a 1974 N.D. freshman named Timothy AVilliam. 
"BOB LONDERGAN, a transplanted Evans­xillian, is another '44cr who's a ver>- active legal eagle and Knight of Columbus. 
"So much for now. George. Current plans call for a South Bend week-end for Michigan State. 
Hope to see you there. U not. 1959 u'tU Rnd us 
all together reluctantly approaching the unrecon­ciled forties. Tell GRIFF ALLEN he owes me a letter." 
Many thanks to you. Ed. for rescuing us once again. Would be fine if some other of our class­mates would take pen or pencil in hand and send along some notes about themselves and other *44crs in their vicinity. If we had just one faithful cor­respondent in all of the major cities, especially through the raid-west, we'd jam-pack this column with plenty of news each Issue. 
Wc received a note the other day from Brother ARMEL LfVTTERELL, who after graduating with .i«r class «'as sent to teach at St. Thomas Aquinas School in Brooklyn. Brother Is now principal of the school located at 2000 Flatbush Avenue, in the midst of Dodger-land, and reports an enroll­ment of nearly 1600 with over 500 on the waiting h'st. TheyVc broken ground for an additional school to meet the overflow, and expect to have the new building ready by next February. 
Hop-skipping across this land of ours here arc bits of information spotlighting other '44 brethren. .. . ED ALTENDORF Is with the organizau'on and procedure dept. of the Miller Brewing Co. In .Milwaukee. . -. BEN BRUNETTI is with the Methods Engineering Council in Pittsburgh en­gaged in management consulting. . . , JOHN "BUD" KUHN, President of our Senior Class, is now Vice-President in charge of sales for the General Binding Corp. in Chicago. . . . LEO LARDIE, the father of three sons and two daugh­ters, is with the Electro Metallurt^ical Div. of Union Carbide & Carbon Corp. in Ashtabula, Ohio. . . . JIM MALONE Is general cost depl. super­visor with Libbcy-0\vens-Ford Glass Co., Toledo, Ohio. . . . JIM McMANUS is living in Mt. Pleas­ant, S. C , and a chemical engineer with the West Va. Pulp and Paper Co. . . . 
Glancing in other directions, wc note that . . . WILLIAM GRAFE is a salesman with the Abbott Laboratories in N. Chicago. . . . Dr. BOB FUNSCH is a specialist in orthopedic surgcr>­practicing in St. Louis. . . . TED CU.MMINGS is practicing law in Seattle and JOE CONERTY is keeping them out of jail In Woodstock, III. . . . NORM HASSER is asst. proL of math on the campus. . . . HAL HALEY is on the full-time faculty of Stritch School of Medicine at Loyola 
FRANK J. POLLNOW, JR., '42 

The new president of Vestal Labora­tories, Inc., is Frank J. Pollnow, Jr., a member of Notre Dame's 1942 Class. Frank succeeds his father, Frank J., Sr., founder of the Chemical Special­ties Manufacturing Company, who will continue as chairman of the board. 
Except for ser\'ice with the United States Nav)' during \Vorld ^Var II, Frank has been associated with Vestal since graduation. Prior to being named president, he sen'ed as plant manager, research director, technical director and executive vice-president. 
He is affiliated with the American Chemical Society. Frank is chairman of the Industrial Division, Association of American Soap and Glycerine Pro­ducers and is a past director of Chem­ical Specialties Manufacturing Asso­ciation. 
He has been active in the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis where he has served as vice-president and member of the board of directors. Frank is also a member of the Serra Club and recently he participated in the found­ing of The Priory of St. Mary and St. Louis—a monastery and Catholic pre­paratorj' school for boys conducted by the Benedictine monks. 
He is married to the former Georg­anne Funsten and they reside in St. Louis with their two sons. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 41 
Univ. . . . TOM KELLY is a rescarc!i clicmist for Pitt. Consol. Coal Co. in Library, Pa. . . . JOHN 
D. KOCH is vice prcs. of the Fred Koch Brewery in Dunkirk, X. Y. . . . and BOB KOHL who was a member of the National Advisors- Commit­tee for Aeronautics is an aeronautical research scientist with oHiccs in Cleveland. .. . J. W. SCHEUCH is employed in the ensinecring depart­ment of North American Aviation, Inc., Downe\', Calif. 
We're expecting a hot summer here along the Jersey seashore, but by the time this column readies you Fall should be in sight, and your secty. is looking fon\'ard to the coming football season, as I expect to be at X.D. for the Michigan Stale and Oklahoma game weekends. Can't seem to pull the right strings to get accommodations at the iforris Inn. so am pitciiing (he tent at the LaSalle. If you expect to be on hand for either game look me up or drop a note beforehand. 
104c Al Lcsmez 
• #-»^ 122 TuIIamore Road Garden City, N. Y. . 
DO YOUR P.^RT! We of the class staff arc doing what we feel is an honest cfTort of maintaining class records, in­creasing class memberslilp, spreading class news, creatins class spirit, planning class activities, and doing evervthing and anything to strengthen, ex­pand, and coordinate class structure. All we ask is to know that the class is behind us. All we ask is tliat you, as you read this, cooperate with us. You have not up to now. Or at least, only a hand­ful of you have been business-like enough to have done sn. 
Your class treasurer, BILL MOORE, recently sent out individual letters to each of you in the class, asking for a contribution to bolster our fading funds. Only a few have answered. Is that the spirit? A\Ti3t if \VE took that attitude? Wiere would class structure, and this column, and the reunion, etc, be? Suppose we didn't have the interest to find the time and the little energy it takes to get a $5.00 check ofT. Don't be a side^ of-the-roader. Answer Bill's letter. Gis'e us a vote of confidence. Do at least your part! And do it today, 
HERE AND THERE Did you know that . . . JOE INCE, who has been carried as "unclaimed" for quite a while, has finally been cornered as being at 516 Sauth Flower Street. Inglewood, Calif. Hope vou fare well out on the West Coast, Joe . . . that CHUCK SAR­TORE and bride have taken up residence in their nesv home at 4345 Hampshire Avenue, Memphis, Tenn. Best of fuck to you ne^vly^veds from the class and from me also . . . that JOE HAGGAR has moved to 4955 \Vedgewood Lane, Dallas, Texas . . . that JIM BETTER'S new address is 210 Ken­wood .-Vvcnue, Delmar. New York. You're getting closer and closer to Garden City, Jim. Soon you won't have any excuse for not dropping in; you*re alwa>-s Welcome . . . that my letters to ART H.-\AS at 821 Forest Avenue, South Bend, and to DICK Y'OUXG at Box 365, Niagara Falls, Ontario. Canada, arc returned because they have moved and left no forwarding address. Now, is that hav­ing any consideration? . . . that ^^arg3ret and WELTON RALPH ABELL of 2341'/- South Bent­le>% W. Los Angeles 61, Calif., have two lovely cliildren, 4-ycar-old Scott and 2-year-old Michael Brv'an. Ralph is with the Doyle Dane Bembach Adverlisin:? Ai-encs' as an account executive . . . Uiat JOHN G. MACK, JR., and his wife, Cath­erine, arc the proud parents of four youngsters, Marjoric (6), Micliaci (5), Mary Catherine (4), and Kathleen (2). Johnny is the assistant to the general manager for sales witli the Inland Steel Company. John's address is 38 S. Dearborn Street, Chicago 3, Uh'nois . . . tliat btg MIKE G.\RRY, one of the most popular members of the class, is presiding over a household of wife, Elizabeth, and two children. Mary Jane (3), and Patrick (I'/s), at 323 Elm Street, Fairmont, Min­nesotxu Mike is self-employcd witJi the Garr>­Elevators Company. A short note he sent me, whicli I don't believe I've included in my coliman before, appears below in the "Letters From" sec­tion . . . that plans for a get-together at the Oklalioma game on campus this year are progress­ing, and that already thoughts are being formed about a class get-together on the weekend of the ND-Array game in Philadelphia in 1957 . . . that you should sit dou-n ri.iht now and get a class contribution off to Bill Moore, a letter off to me telling me about your activities, work, and your 
42 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1956 

MIAMI—^Alumni Secretary Jim Armstrong was guest speaker at the club^s celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. From left to right: Mike Zorovich, president; Ed Hanly, treasurer; Armstrong; Club Secretary Dan Rowlands; Charlie Maher, first vice-president; and Jim Smith, second vice-president. 
family . . . that PAUL W. SMITH, my former roomie, and his wonderful wife, Elise, have four youngsters I'm looking forvvard very much to meeting. They arc Paul Joseph (5), Slary Teresa (3), Nancy Giles (2), and Patrick James (1). Paul is president of the Southern Ox>-gen Supply Company, Inc., of Atlanta, and lives at 526 Meadow Lane, Decatur, Georgia. (Ed. Note: Paul is also president of the N.D. Club of Atlanta and he at­tended the Presidents' Council held on 'rampus in June. JC.) 
LETTERS FROM DEPARTMENT 
From MIKE G.ARRY: "I don't think I ever took the opportunity to thank you for the terrific job you did in organizing our 10-year class re­union last year. To say the least, I enjoyed every mouicnt of ilie reunion. 
"My actirities have centered around the Knights of Columbus as I am Grand Knight of our local council. 

"We hope to add another name to our family sometime this summer. With best wishes to you, Al, and to cverj-one in the class, I remain ready for any class reunion, Mike Garr>-." 
From JIM CLYNES, class president: "Names arc beginning to come in o[ those who plan to attend the Oklahoma game luncheon at the Uni­versity. So far we have the following: JOHN MACK, JR., JOHN CARON, DICK BLACK­HURST, DICK SADOWSKI, MIKE GARRY, JIM • RETTER, DES CURRIER, DAVE MURPHY, JIM CLYNES, AL LESMEZ. JACK CLEARY, HARRY RYAN, BOB RIORDAN, BILL KLEM, JR., BOB GRIFFIN, ED NOONAN and JACK KINNEY. 
*'A1, I can't stress enough the importance of each man interested in this get-together letting me know so we can plan, and that each person get his own football tickets. 
"I am still waiting to hear from one of our members in the South Bend area as to tvbether he will accept the project of contacting the non­members of any N.D. class so that our class can grow. I am also awaiting a letter from Father Shecdy with regard to. BILL WHALEN's Mass card. EWdently he sent it on and failed to charge us for it. Kindest regards to the whole class." 
AND STILL NO ACTION 
Here's a gootj example of the "put-i't-oflf" spirit which licks us every time. Here you have finished the column, figured "well, that's that until the next issue," and are already thinking about other things more immediate to you. But how about getting a check off to BILL MOORE? How about a letter for mc for ammunition for this column? 
How about letting JIM CLYNES know if you will make tho get-logclher at the Oklalioma game? How about some action, now, positive and real!! 
1946 J^** Tcnge, Jr. 31 Everett Avenue, West Hartford, Conn. 
REUNION REGISTRANTS AT LA^V BLDG."^ 

JAMES CASSIDY, RICHARD CRONIN, .\nCHAEL GANEY, ROBERT GORSKI, VIN­CENT JACOBS, VINCENT KEDEL, JOHN PRAWDZIK, FRANK RUGGIERO and WIL­LIAM SLOWEY. 
JOHN F. POWER has been elected assistant secretary and head of the legal department of the Security Mutual Casualty Company, Chicago, III. John and his wife have one child and they reside in Westchcstta-, III. 
&^ 

104 7 Jsmcs E. Murphy 1706 Churchill Drive South Bend 17, Indiana 
R. H. PEARSE, JR., has been promoted to sales manager of the air conditioning department of J^A Tranc Company, LaCrosse, Wis. He and his \lL^ live at 1925 Main Street, LaCrosse, and the>­have three daughters and two sons. 
DR. JOSEPH C. FINNEY has moved from Oak­land, Calif., to Urbana, III., where he has been appointed director and chief ps>-cluatrxst at the Champaign County Mental Health Clinic. The clinic is located on the Universitv of Illinois campus and Joe's address is 1005 ^Vest Naxrada Street, Urbana, IH. 
R. E. LOY is employed in the engineering de-; 

partinent of North American Aviation, Inc., ^owney, Cal'tt. _/DR. JOHX ARC/\DI has announced the removal 
of his office to 535 South Painter Avenue; Suite D, Whitticr, Calif. 
1948 Herman A. Zitt ^ 635 Belmont Park, No. Dayton, Ohio 
JAMES M. DRONEY is now livini; in West ^^rlnsficld, Mass., witli his wife Pat and four-s5^ir-oId son Jimmy. After nearly swcn years 
with Smith-Corona, Inc., manufacturers of type­writers, he \^'as made brancli manager of the Springfield ofiicc, tt-liich coven the territory of Western Ma&sachu5ctts and the state of Vermont, lie mentions reading articles in the Sundav Boston Post written by JOHN J. SULLIVAN of Lynn. Mxss. Jim and John were classmates in the Journalism School. 
From Tamp::. Fh>rida, Ruthanne and BILL LEONARD send a newsy k-tter. Not all of the ^ttmes mentioned are in this class but might be 
•^•Limiliar to some of you. The Leonards present a glowing description of the Notr-. Dame gather­ing In April at BOB GORE*s Sea Ranch Hotel in Ft- Lauderdale. Thrv were especially impressed with FATHER HESBURGH and JIM ARM­STRONG. And with luxurious surroundings and beautiful weather, who could ask for more. Among those present were Marge and DICIC BRODUER, Jo and ROY L^VUGHLIN from northern Florida and from the Ft. Lauderdale-MIaml area the TOM NOL.\NS, the JIM NOLr\NS, ED KELLY, GENE CHAIRES, and Clair and JOHN SULLIVAN. ^fiout thr. Leonards—after six years with Warren ' i-^troleum. Bill is on the sales force, now traveling Georgia. They have four youngsters — Martha. Thomas, Mar>' and Matthew. The Leonards heard that the DON ROSSENFELDS were planning a move to Cleveland. Ohio. They often sec TOM GREIWE who Is practicing pediatrics In Tampa. 
FRANCIS R. FARLEY received a bachelor of Jaw degree frmn Riilgers University on June 6. 
194 9 J°^" Walker 
"^ ' 826 Wing Street A Elgin, Illinois 
G. .A. LENNING has been appointed to the technical department, metallurgical research divi­sion staff, of the Titanium Metals Corporation of .\merica. Henderson. Nevada. He, his wife and three children reside at 827 Dover Place, Las Vegas, Nevada-
RICHARD I-.\MERE, "Traveler" labor editor. 

was given special recognition recently by the New England District Council of the /Vmcrican News­paper Guild when he was cited for his series of articles on bonding kickbacks. 
EUGENE F. MATHEWS has been appointed assistant sales manager for Consolidated Freight Company. Saginaw, Mich. 
J. J. HYDOCK is employed in the engineering department at North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif. 
DON PIEDMONX of the Norfolk and West­ern Magazine, has resigned to accept a position on the public relations staiT of the Lago Oil & Transport Co. Ltd. He and his family will leave Roanoke July 1 for the island of Aruba in the Dutch West Indies, where he will be stationed. 
Before joining the railroad's Magazine and Ad­\crtising Department in March, 1952, Don ivorkcd In the public relations department of Colonial Williamsburg, on the staff of the Nc^vport News Times-Herald, and as an information officer for the government. 
He is married to the former Dorothy Brown of Roanoke. Thc>* have one daughter, Anne Donlan, age six months. 
ROBERT VIERHILE has been named assistant to the president of The Athletic Institute. Bob has done graduate work at St. Bonavcnture and .Alfred Universities. In 1951 he went to Iran for the State Department's Technical Assistance Pro­gram. 
BILL SHERMAN has recently been appointed the Midwest field representative for the National Golf Foundation. 
1950 t^ichard F. Hahn ** 6930 North OdeU Chicago 31, Illinois 
JAMES CURRAN recently received lib appoint­iiicnt as a foreign semcc ofKccr with tiic United States Department of State. He is currently scr\'­ing in the Division of Emplovnient, Washington, 
D. C. FR.\NK McBRIDE, JR., was recently married and his new address is 4054 Royal Oak Drive, Dayton 9, Ohio. Frank is the current president of the Xotrc Dame Club of Dayton. ROBERT J. SIPPEL has been promoted to staff engineer by fnternational Business Afachine Corp. Bob joined IBNt in 1951 and is now enrolled at the S>-racusc University Grathotc I'rogram. 
JOHN J. REEDY is a biology professor at StonehitI College. North Easfon, Alass. 
P. J. HANIFIN is employed in the engineering department at North .-\merican Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif. 
RICHARD D. FRi\NKEL has joined the Con­
^'lANSAS CITY—The alumni club presented a plaque to Joseph Stewart for his outstanding work as a national leader in the American Red Cross program. From left to right: Club President Rius Farrell; Dr. Nigro; Ed Krause; Stewart; and Robert Metzler. 
necticut General Life Insurance Company as an 
estate planning representative in tho company's 
Fort Worth, Texa;, branch office. Dick is married 
and he and his wife are the parents of four chil­
dren. They reside at 6229 Windermere, Fort 
Worth, Te."tas. 
THOMAS R. FARLEY received a bachelor of law 
degree from Rutgers University on June fi. 
lOCI Robert J. Klingcnbcrger "' " 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, bidiana 
REUNION REGISTRANTS AT LAW BLDG. 
DAVE AMRERG, JOHN C. A.MRHEIM, JO­SEPH AUCRE.MANN, AL BAILEY, FRED BAUMGARTNER, JAMES BAKER, PATRICK BARRETT, JOHN BECKER, THO.MAS BECK­MAN, JIM BEGLEY, FRANK BEITER, TOM BENNING, JACK BOEH.M, ROBERT BOYD, JAMES BOYLE, ERWIN BRENDEL, LEO BREN­NAN, TOM BRENNAN, FRED BRICE, JAMES BRISKY, JACK BRODERICK, LEE BROWN, PAUL BRUGGE.\L«J, REV. BASIL BURK­HART, ROBERT BURNS, BILL CAREY, JOHN CARP, TOM CARROLL, JOE CHANIGA, ROB­ERT CLEMENCY, CLIFF COLLINS, DANIEL CONNELL, WILLIAM CONROY, JACK CORYN, JOHN CRISTUNO, FRANK CROVO, J.AMES CUMMINGS, JACK CURRAN, FRED CURTO, BEN DAMIANI, DON DANIELS, BOB D.AR­LING, EUGENE DcBORTIOLI, C. T. DES­MOND, JAMES DONNELLY, MALCOL.M DOO­LEY, NORBERT DRZAZGOWSKI, JOHN DUF­FY, BOB EDMONDSON, CARL EIFERT, AN­DREW FAIRLIE, PHIL FACCENDA, DICK FELDPAUSCH, HOWARD FENN, JACK FER­RICK, BERNARD FRANZ, JIM FRICK, LAW­RENCE GALLAGHER, JOSEPH G.ALLOW.AY, RICHARD GARRITY, JACK GARTLAND, W. DON GEORGEN, JAMES GHIGLIERI, JIM GIL­US, CLAYTON GLASGOW, ART GOLDKA.MP, DONALD GRIEVE, DONALD GROBMYER, AL­BERT GUARNIERI, D.AVID GUSHURST, BRAIUTNER HACKMANN, WILLIA.M HAGAN, HARRY HANIG.AN, BERNARD H.ANK, ^VIL­LL\M HARTY, HERSCHEL HARVEY, JOHN HEGARTY, JAMES HENTiESSY, EUGENE HOFFALAN, JAMES HOLID.W, ^V^LLIAM HOSCHEIDT. HUGH HENRY, STANLEY INS. LEY, JACK JANOWSKI, JAMES JENNINGS, RAY JONARDI, THOMAS KELLEGHAN, BILL KELLY, TOM KIGIN, BOB KLINGENBERGER, ROBERT KNIGHT, PAUL KOMORA, PAUL KRUSE, JI.M LaCESE, JOHN LAN.Aft\N, CARL LISH, PAUL LOVETTE, EDG.AR LUCAS, CHUCK LUECKE, WLLIAM McDER.MOTT, HOWARD .MCDONALD, TOM MCGEE, BOB McGLYNN, JOHN -McKELVEY, R.ANDALL Mc-NALLY, JOHN .McSHANE, JA.MES -M.AHO.VEY, BOB MAHONEY, DICK .MARSHALL, MATT MARSHALL, STEPHEN MARTIN, ED MEAGH­ER, DAVID MEDWD, JAMES MELOCHE, JOHN MENDOZA, RAY MILLER, JOHN MOORE, TOM MOOR.M.AN, JOHN MORGAN, JOSEPH MOSCHELLA, BENNY .MOSES, JACK MULDOON, FRANK MULLER, GEORGE MURPHY, JOHN MURPHY, PRESTON .MUR­PHY, JOHN MURRAY, TOM .MURRAY, AL­BERT .MUTH. TO.M .MYLER, JOE NAUGHTON, JOHN NAUGHTON, JOHN NE.4THERTON, ROBERT NICKODE.M, JOHN O'BRIEN, R-AY O'CONNOR, REX O'CO.NNOR, CHARLES O'DONNELL, CHARLES O'LAUGHLIN, DAVID O'LEARY, TED 0'.M.ALI.EY, DE.\NIS O'NEILL, HARVEY O'NEILL, JA.MES OTOOLE, LAW­RENCE PANOZZO, CHUCK PAULER, BUD POWERS, WLLIA.M PRINDIVILLE, PATRICK PURDY, BOB RAYMOND, JOE RIGALI, 
THOMAS ROCHE, DONALD RODRIGUEZ, RUDOLPH ROG, JAMES ROGERS, JOHN ROHRB.ACH, JOHN ROY, GEORGE S.A.AD, JAMES SCHMITT, PHIL SCHWARZ, JA.MES SEARS, JA.MES SHEERIN, JOSEPH SHELLY, RICHARD SHIPMAN. WILLIA.M SIMPSON, ART SMUCK, D.AVID SMYTH, TOM SNYDER, CARL STREBINGER, EDWARD SULLIVAN, HOBE TAYLOR, KENNETH THOREN, A. PAT­RICK TONTI, REV. JA.MES TREP.ANIER, C.S.C., FRED TUCH, HUGH TUOHY, THOM­.AS TULLY, WALTER TURNER, RICH.ARD UHL, JOHN F. voir , J.A.MES VOGEL, ROB­ERT WALLACE, .ANDREW WALSH, ALLEN WARD, GEORGE »VEBER, JOHN WH.ALEY, JOHN ^VH^TE, J. ROBERT ^VILDEAUN, RALL WnTROCK, BILL WOMB.ACHER, JOHN YOUNG and ALBERT ZEISZ. 
JOHN HARFORD is the new district group representative in Philadelphia for the New Eng-
Notre Dame Alumnus, August, 1956 43 
land Mutual Life Insurance Company. He and Mrs. Harford arc the parents of a ten-montli-old baby boy. 
EDWARD j : BATTERSBY recently received a doctor of medicine degree from Johns Hopkins University. 
IQC 9 Harry L. Buch ' ^^^ 986 National Road ^Vhccling, >Vcst Va. 
(Reunion 
T-8-P I 
JOHN L. DAW has announced the opening of his architect office at 5509 Brooksidc Blvd., Kansas City, Mo. 
JOSEPH L. MARTIN recently graduated from tho Johns-Manville Corporation Training Center where he took an advanced course in modern sales techniques. His address is 100 Charles Drive, Br>-n Mawr, Pa. 
VIRGIL A. VOSS received a Doctor of Medicine degree from the Stritch School of Medicine, Loyola University, on June 13. He is planning to begin an internship at St. Joseph*s Hospital, Denver, Colo., on July I. 
^MLLIAM J. CO.\KER received a Doctor of ^fedicine degree from the Stritch School of Medi­cine, Loyola University, on June 13. 
GERALD S. KLEE received Ids M.D. degree from St. Louis University at commencement exer­cises on June 2. Also receiving M.D. degrees at the same time were JOHN R- TILLIS and RICH­ARD A. LANEY. 
J. KEVIN SMITH and JACK E. BLALOCK received master of automotive engineering degrees from tlie Chrysler Institute of Engineering in De­troit on June 5. 
JA.\fES F. RE\'NOLDS received a degree Irom the University of Penns^K-ania at commencement t::\crciscs on June 13. 
IQC 3 Thomas W. Reedy 
•'^ ^ 337 Wagner Road Northfield, Illinois 
JOHN LEONARD recently received his appoint­ment as a foreign ser\'Icc officer with the United States Department of State. John is currently scrxing in the Division of Rcsearcli for American Republics in Washington, D. C. 
FIRST LT. EDWARD S. SELM is slationcd at Bealc Air Force Base, Calif. 
W. X. PATRICK is employed as a patent en­gineer with North American Aviation, Inc., Downey, Calif. 
JOHN V. REDINGTON received his Doctor of Medicine degree from St. Louis University on June 2. 
J.AMES S. CROWL has been appointed super­visor of process researcli for the Achcson Calloids Company of Port Huron, Midi. Jim was previously employed by the General American Transportation Corporation. He ts a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineering and the Amer­ican Chemical Soacty. 
WILLIAM E. LANGLOIS recently Joined the staff of DuPont's Polychcmicals Department Re­search Division at the Experimental Station in 
- \ViImington, Delaware. HAROLD R. MILLER was graduated recently from the American Institute for Foreign Trade at Thunderbird Field, Phoenix, .Ariz., where he took the schooPs intensive training course in prepara­tion /or 3 career In Paacuc^n business or goi'cm­ment abroad. Had a surprise visit from KERAVIN FULTON tliis past Sunday afternoon. Ker was in Chicago for several hours between planes on his way to Denver and just Iiad time to join us in a pretty 
sadly burned charcoaled steak. He is joining the Law firm of J. F. Little in Denver, having recently 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1956 
GEORGE O'NEIL, JR., '39 
George O'Neil, Jr., has been elected president of the New York State Bot­tlers of Carbonated Beverages^ Inc., for the 1956-57 term. The meeting took place in Buffalo, N. Y. 
Geoige has been president of tlie Pepsi-Cola Westchester County Bot­tling Company since acquiring the local franchise in 1942. 
Prior to that time, he w^as associated with the Metropolitan Bottling Com­pany, a wholly owTied subsidiary' of the Pepsi-Cola Company, as a distrib­utor in the New York area. He is a member of the AVestchester and Pel­ham Country Clubs and serves on tlie Pelham Manor Planning Board. Geotge and his wdfe reside in Pelham, 
N. Y., wdth their five children. 
graduated from Columbia University Scliool of haw in New York. Ken%"in will spend the first 2 or 3 weeks in Denver boning up for the Colorado Law examination and is looking for^vard to being called into ser\-icc sometime within the next 2 months. 
JOE CZERWINSKI is living in Ozone Park, Long Island, and is a chemist for Chase Copper and Brass Company. Joe was discliarged from the Army on January* 25th of this year and attended one semester of graduate school at the University of Massachusetts previous to beginning with Chase. 
Saw JIM 0*BRIEN and his wife, Joan, recently. Jim is working for the family firm, O'Brien Manu­facturing Company—manufacturers of sewer clean­ing equipment—in Chicago and expects to go on the road selling before too many more months. Jim and Joan are expecting their first this fall. Jim mentioned reading that DICK HILENSKI of ND and Ohio State was killed in a car accident some time ago. Jim attended JERRV ADLER's recent wedding and said ND was well represented 
.with JIM BLACKBURN, EDDIE McCARTHV, HARRY KELLY and BRIAN KELLY, who livened up things by a wild bare-back horseback ride n[\ one of the Adicr horses. \L/ 
RAY DITTRICH, who entered the Marines after graduation and spent 2 years in scr\'ice, 8 months at Quantico, and 18 months in Miami, Florida, has just finished his freshman year at the Univer­sity of Michigan ScIiooI of Law, Ann Arbor, Miclii­gan. Ray is married with one child. He expects to graduate with his law degree in 1958. 
DICK DOUGLxVS is Private First Class Douglas until July 15, 193G. Dick is working at the Army Audit Agencj- in Chicago. ^^ 
PAT COFFEY was released from the Nav>-'^ a Lt. (jg) in June and plans to go to New York to work. Pat, married with 2 children, Kevin and Ailcen, was stationed at Norfolk Na\'al Base. 
LOU CAVANAUGH, now a Lt. (jg) in the Navy is Fire Control Division Officer aboard the USS Intrepid. Lou tvrites, "Since graduating from ND have travelled from Hong Kong to Istanbul via US Na\*>'—not much else has happened." That sounds like a good start, half way around the world in two years. Lou enters Har\'ard Law School this Fall. ^ 
Lt. (jg) BILL CONROY is a .Naval Pilot ciiT^ 
rently stationed with Heavy Attack Squadron Seven 
at Naval Air Station, Sanford, Florida. 
DON BECK is married, has one child, and is employed as a mechanical engineer with the Bendix xVviation Corporation in South Bend. 
JIM BUCKLEY hung up the blues in July and enters Creigliton Law School this Fall. Jim is single and scr\'ed as Supply Corps Officer aboard the USS Edmonds DE 406 in the Pacific. Jim's note was posted from Pearl I larbor. 
JACK CLARK is married and living in Indr-.^ Orchard, Massachusetts. John sells for the Plastics Division of Monsanto Chemical and has completed the sales trainee course there. From October 1953 to October 1955 Jack was with the U. S. Army Counter Intelligence Corps. Location: Classificdl 
BOB DEAK is married and a Med Student at Temple University School of Medicine in Phila­delphia, Pennsylvania. 
BOB DYER spent 2 years with the Marines and was stationed at the El Toro Marine Base in Cali­fornia. He returned home last September and is now working for the Kaul Clay Co. of Toronto, Ohio. Bob and Mrs. D. have one child. -"^f 
V ' 
Enjoying life in Texas," writes JOE BRt\S­S.\RD who is an engineer with Chance Voughl .Aircraft in Dallas. 
I just missed seeing LrVRRY EATON who visited some neighbors of ours here in Northfield. Larr\- is a pilot stationed in Pensacola, Florida, with the Navy and was up at Glenview on a flight a few weeks ago. From all reports Jic*s enjoying life in the Navy and expects to get out and head back to Greeley, Colorado in about a year. 
EDDY DUGG/VN just finished 2 years with the Air Force and is now doing office work for IBH. Ed lives in Montclair, New Jersej*. '-^J 
Serving aboard the USS Bearss, a destroyer, is EDWARD J. CONWAY.'Ed went through New­port OCS in the infamous Class 13 group and !>pent his first two years riding the beach in Flor­ida. Now aboard the Bearss, he gets out of the Navy in November and heads back to more routine matters in LaGrange, 111. 
It seems like, judging from the cards we've received so far, tfic Navy is far ahead among the '53'ers. Where arc you Army men? Cowards. 
Here's a guy who's got what wc all dream O^ Name: JAQUES DEZQTEUX. Occupation: Eng^ neer working on semi-conductors for the Telecom­munication Research Center. Location: Paris, France. In case our world travelers make Paris in the next several months, look up Jacques at 
C.N.E.T. 3 Avenue de la Republique, Issy les Mo«­lineaux. Seine. Telephone LEG 40.00. He promises a guided tour of all the bistros. 
"Preparing to become civiHanizcd," writes RON CLOUGH who was stationed at Eglin AFB in Florida. Ron is now residing at 181 Porter Avenue in Waukeslia, IVisconsin. uj\ 
BILL DOSMANN spent two years with the Army and is now in Purchasing with the Ford Motor Company in Detroit. The Dosmanns have one child, a girl. 
TERRY BRITT is married with one child and is currently teaching CBR to officers and non corns at Ft, Eustis, Virginia. Previous to entering the Army, Terry was working for Richfield Oil Company. 
DICK AUDINO is practicing law in New Castle, Pa. 
Attending McGiIl University and now in Ins ^ir d year of Medical School is DON BARNETT ^ Potsdam, New York. 
ROGER BRAUN is traveling the United States as a sales rep for West Bend Aluminum of West Bend, Wisconsin. 
DAVE AHLERING %vill marry Mar>- Lou Reedy (my sister) on June 30th. Dave left ND in Junior year to attend Loyola University of Chicago Dental School and graduated ,this past June, lie enters the Xa\-y soon. 
DAVE BROCK.M^VX is now a high powered ^^vertising executive in Cincinnati and works for 'Vie firm of Parson, HufF and Northlick. Brock was 
released from the Marines in December 1955. 
BILL OAXTER was stationed, while in the Army, at the New Cumberland General Depot, Pcnna., where he was Chaplain's /\sst. Bill was discharged in June I95G and plans to work in Chicago. Bill writes that he*s heard from ROBERT HULL who is stationed at Ft. Clayton. C. Z. 
GERALD R. COX is now teaching in the Chit­tenanga Central School in Canastota, New York. .^'hile with the Signal Corps of the Army, Gerr>* 
•dpent 10 months in Bangkok, Thailand. With him in the same detail of 10 men was another J953 graduate, ED SMET. 

I THOMAS J. CRIBBS Is the Engineer Equlp­
? ment Maintenance Officer at Camp Pendleton, California. 
FRANK DIONISE is part time football coach of the Lapeer, Michigan, high school and also owns his own retail business. 
BROTHER JOHN DORAN. C.S.C., Is a teacher 
at the yotre Dame High School, Sherman Oaks, ^al . Brother John taught at the Vinccntian Insti­^^ite in Albany, New York, after graduation until 
he was transferred to the coast in Sept. 1954. ROBERT CASSELIA is married with one son and is attending Medical School at the University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland. RALPH (ARCH) ARGEX is finishing Iiis 3rd year of Med School at Georgetown. LOUIE BECK is a representative for the South­ern Paper Box Company of Little Rock, Arkansas, and Mrs. Beck is expecting In August. Louie writes, *'My brother Joe, M9, is getting his Masters at Purdue, brother Bill is now in pilot's training, and ^rother John enters SD in 1958." Tfiey should ^iv e yim boys the quantity discount at ND, Lou. " Both Joe and Lou were Air Force Pilots. 
PAUL BALLING worked for Balling Brothers Construction Company in North Tonawanda, ^ew York, for 2'/™ years after graduation and is now in the Army. 
Jl.M BUTLER is a Product Development Engi­neer with Wtrstern Electric and Is living In La-Grange, Illinois. Jim,- his wife and 2 kids arc just getting settled in their new home after spending 3 years moving all over the eastern part of the 
JLJ.S.A. 
' ^ RE\^ EDWIN BORNTRAEGER, O.F.M., is a teacher at Bellarminc College, Louisville, Ky. He teaches theoIog>- and political science. 
CHARLEY CROWLEY is married and lives with wife and one child at San Francisco, No. 22 Valle, Mexico. Charley is Credit Manager, Buyer and Salesman for Crowley, S. A., distributors of P&H Diesel Motors and of the Crown Super Coach. 
FLOYD BLJU R was discharged in Marcli from the Air Force »herc he was a jet ali-ucathcr Inter­ceptor pilot of an F-89D Scorpion at Otis AFB, 
>']ftlass. Barbara and Floyd have 2 girls, Kathy ^n d Diane. 
JOHN ALFES Is an automotive engineer for Pontiac in Lanjing. John finished service with the Army in September 1955, returned to scliool at Michigan State for one year and is now with pontiac. 
AL DUNN is the Asst. \\'orks Manager of tlic Wheeling Bronze Casting Company of Wheeling, West Virginia. Al has two boys and one girl. 
MR. T. PHILIP DEVLIN, C.S.C., formerly of fMlalCf Colorado, is now at Notre Dame de Sainte 
^roix , 8 Rue Notre Dame, Le Mans, France, pre­paring for the Holy Priesthood. He was made a Deacon March 17, 1956 and will be ordained a Priest later in the year. 
^«LLIA.M N. ANTONIS is a patent aIlorne>­with the Bcndbc Aviation Corp. of South Bend, Indiana. 
DAVID KEIFFER, JR., has been appointed as­sistant professor of physics at Canislus College after receiving his doctorate at Notre Dame this past June, 
$ 
LOUIS H. HRUBY, '35 
Louis H. Hruby, '35, has advanced to a top post in General Electric's Lamp Division. G.E. has appointed him manager of the AVesteni Sales Dis­trict of the division's newly created Photolanip Department. 
His business address is 5525 AVilshire Boulevard, Los Angeles. 
Lou, after receiving hJs B.C.S. de­gree at Notre Dame, worked for about a year with a leading printing concern. He then joined General Electric Lamp Division's sales promotion department in 1937 at Nela Park, Cleveland. 
In 1940, Lou transferred to the di­vision's South Pacific Sales District in Los Angeles to direct its sales pro­motion activities. 
Hniby returned to Nela Park in 1948 to become a sales specialist in G.E.'s health lamp merchandising pro­gram, and a year later his responsibili­ties were extended to include lai^e lamp merchandising. 
Prior to his new position, Lou held a key sales and promotion post with the division's Michigan Sales District in Detroit. 
A native of Cleveland, Hruby is married and is the father of three dausfhters and a son. 
LT. JOE CLANCY will be discharged in July from the Marines. Joe serxed at Camp Lejcune, 
N. C, CHARLIE BILLERBECK works for Standard 

Oil of Indiana as a Chemical Engineer and Is mar­rying Miss Margaret Cremer of Frecport, Illinois im June 30. Charlie received his M.S. in Chemical Engineering from MIT in January 1955. 
KARL BURNS has been with Bell Aircraft Corp. of Kenmore, New York for three years now and is a security representative. Karl writes that he sees RALPH ARGEN and PAT NEVILLE frequently. 
JOHN CAMPAGNONE, still a bachelor, is a salesman for Remington Rand and mentions that he might go to Arabia. 
Another June 30 wedding Is that of LOU BOUR­JAILY and Rita Conlcy of Chicago. Lou is working for A&R Advertising Agenc>' in Chicago awaiting the big day. 
BILL DECRICK writes: "Got out of the servnce in September, scr\ed at Ft. Hrfod, Texas with Dave Costlgan. Bob Hoodecheck, Jack Sands, Mike McKInstra and John McCormick. Now leading a faily quiet life at work—Manufacturer's Represen­tative of Groceries and Sporting Goods—In Detroit." 
TONY ANTHONY is married, has one child and is currently a sales rep for IBM in New York. 
JIM BLACKBURN is an accountant with Thomas \V. Havey Co. in Chicago. "Blacks" Is TIED FOR THE LEAD in our Baby Sweepstakes with a romp­ing FOUR. Jim attends DePaul University night school—more accounting. 
ED BUCZKIEWICZ is a sales representative for Check Master, Inc. He travek the U.S.A. selUng and installing special dieck progi^ms in banks. Bucky writes that he still finds time to play base­ball, handball and take part in a neighborhood club (Postal Athletic Association.) 
JIM CELANO is a law student at DcPaul Uni­versity In Chicago. He worked for one year for the Chicago Tribune before reentering Law School. 
JAMES CROWL is married with 2 children and living In Hammond, Indiana. Jim has been a Group Leader in a pilot plant of General Amer­ican Transportation Corp, for the past three years and now Is a chemical engineer with Acheson Colloids, Port Huron, Michigan. 
BILL BIRD is a First Louie ^vlth the Marines and is stationed at Quantico, Virginia. 
DON R. CURTIS Is a salesman for the GUdden Company and is in Washington, D. C. He writes: "Enjoying life In the nation's capital, a bachelor's paradise. Have a spare bunk for any old friends on a short visit. .Address: 1302 Pierce, Arlington, Va. Was at Camp Gordon in 1953 as electronic instructor with TOM TABOR. 
NORM DONATO is a student at Ohio State University working on his blasters degree ia busi­ness administration. 
D.\VE B.ARROW is a development engineer w^th Motorola, Inc., in Chicago. Dave was discharged from the Anny this Spring and is now working in the Government Engineering dept. at Motorola. 
DAVID (JOHN) BROUGHTON is an Engineer for Cunningham Engineers, Inc. John spent the last year studying philosophy and theology in France, Kc tried to become a carpenter upon his return but ran into union trouble and had to go back to engineering. 
EDDY CAHILL is a civilian working with the US Air Force stationed at Boiling AFB, Wash­ington, D. C. Ed went to England this Spring on official business and travels quite a bit in his job. 
TOM COLLINS is attending ND night school while working days at Bendix Missile Division in South Bend. 
RICH.\RD BOYLE Is a research chemist with xXmerlcan C>'anamid Co,, in Bound Brook, New Jersey. Dick married Barbara Turner of Baton Rouge, La.j October 1955. 
JIM ROGERS wTote a nice letter, some of which follo'ws: *I have just built a new home in West St. Paul and as yet we have no children and certainly hope we can fill the home up soon. The insurance business Is fine and the business has been extremely well for me the past few months. Now to let you know about some of the boys: JOE O'NEILL is graduating from U. of Minnesota Law School in June and has recently acquired a baby girl, Kath­leen. Joe enters the Air Force as a Lt. in August. PAT O'CONNOR, another '53'er, married Miss Sandra McCue on April 14th. Joe and I were in the wedding as was ED McCARTHY from South Bend. TERRY CAREY, now Jiving in Chicago, was asked to be in the wedding but his wife was sick and he couldn't make it. Pat is stationed in Calif, with the Marines and expects to enter Har­vard Business School in Sept. JLM NOONAN is working in St. Paul with the Probation Depart­ment and is married and has a son, Jimmy. PAUL 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1956 45 
GABLER is working for the Golden Rule, an Allied Store chain in whidi he is Asst. Mgr. in tlic Sporting Goods Department. BILL DONALDS, still single, is a Lt. in the Xa\Y somewhere at sea. CHUCK RITTEN is also in tlic Xa\T and is married to a South Bend girl. BOB GLEASON is a Lt. in the Air Force, is married and has one boy and expecting another baby soon. JOHN CONNELLY is doing vcr>- ^vcll in the La.w firm of Fclhaber and Larson. John is president of the Twin Cities XD Club. DAVE KENNEDY has one child, and is stationed in Bermuda where he is on duty witli the Naxy."' Thanks a lot for the letter and the news, Jim. 
DON BERRY is an Aeronautical Engineer wiili the Flight Test Engineering Division, Air Force Flight Test Center, Ed\vards .AFB, California. Pre­rious to Iiis active duty with the .^i^ Force, Don was 3 grad student in Aero Eng. at ND and ob­tained his MS in 1955. Don married Miss Dolores Dietscli of South Bend (SMC 1955) in Sacred Heart Churcli at Notre Dame. 
That's all for now. Sure appreciate getting those letters telling the rest of us what you're doing and what other '53 grads are doing. There's f>nly one tvay we'll ever know—^\VR1TE. 
1 954 George A. Pflaum, Jr. 
200 Squirrel Road 
Dayton 5, Ohio 
Probably tlie most appropriate ^vay to open this article would be to bid a congratulations to the rest of the two-year hitch men who have dropped their uniforms behind and taken to the traditional "ciries" for what we hope to be a period of life­time duration. The transition from Na\y Blue to charcoal and greys again on the 27th of June was sure a treat for me as I'm sure it was for the otiiers who were finishing up their tours about the same time. I have arranged an opportunity to take a training program with Standard Publish­ing Foundation in Cincinnati whicli will keep me busy for the next nine months or so. In tlic meantime I am maintaining the above address for alumni purposes so why don't the rest of you "vets** drop me a line and pass on your trials, joys and tribulations while adjusting to civilian life. 
A good sized stack of mail confronts me as I face this machine, so rather than hold anything back from you I'll dive right in. FIRST LT. JIM BOESEN is still with a Marine AA Battery- here in California. He had tlie opportunity to attend an atomic defense school in San Francisco recently where he saw quite a bit of JAKE NOONAN. Jake reports tliat Boe and his wife had to put up with him for dinner probably too frequently, but he considered it justful retaliation for the many hours that Boesen spent lounging in his room for two years in Alumni. Jim can be reached at 8-A 
Elm Drive, MCTC, 29 Palms, Calif. Jake can 
be found at 3935 Ordiard Drive. Sioux City, Iowa. 
He is quick making his mark as a cattle baron 
in that locale. 
Navy life seems to have its soft touclics for a 
select few. BILL GUILFOILE describes his most 
recent tour of duty on the USS Snyder (DE-745), 
c/o F.P.O., New York as "wonderful." The 
Snyder is a rcscrv*e cruise ship that takes occasional 
two-week cruises to sucli spots as Bermuda, St. 
Petersburg, Montreal, Boston, Havana, Miami, and 
San Juan. In between cruises they are found in 
the Brooklyn Navy Yard. Bill sends on the fol­
lowing information on some of the '54s: Ens. 
MATT MALISON is holding down a job with 
the Navy Department in the Capital City. JOHN 
BURNS is a freshman English instructor at Mar­
quette as is GORDON BERQUIST acting in the 
same capacity. JIM and Carol FERRON arc 
the proud parents of a son and live at 630 River­
view Drive, Appleton, Wisconsin. Jim is an assist­
ant manager at a local clothing store. 
Tlic surprise of the quarter came when a letter from the pen of "Big Bear" JOHN REIDY crossed my desk. John reports tliat he and DON KENNEDY arc still plugging through Western Reserve Law School in Cleveland and now just a vear separates them from that degree. John sends the following news. BILL WOODWARD is to be married to Miss Norcen Gallagher (SMC) on the 14th of June in Wisconsin. Bill is with the Army in Washington and expects to be out in the early Fall. MIKE SCANLON is approaclung his last year of Law Scliool at Ohio State but before that he plans to many Miss Mary Pat Fromcyrr in Cincinnati on the 23rd of June. GEORGE WILLIARD is in the Marine Air Corps undergoing flight training in jets down at Pcnsa­cola. TOM and Ruth VIVI.-VNO sold their house recently and had as their agent none other than Wx\LT "SLITZ" WAGNER. 
ED BROWN was the lucky man last January to maiTv' Miss Marv' Ann Shaw in Evanston. Ed recently completed a two-year tour with the Navy on the USS Escape. BILL AMUNDSON sent word that he is holding down the post of Assist­ant Engineer in diarge of design in LaCrossc, Wis­consin. His local address is 2314 So. 20tli St., LaCrosse. He also reports a wonderful statistic in that his family has increased by 200?e since he left the campus. Congratulations to you and your wife. Bill. 
ROBERT FRIES sends word from Kitzingen, Germany, where he is holding down the job of Personnel Management Specialist with the Army. He is lucky enough to have his wife with him and the two of them have managed some inter­esting travel on the continent. Bob reports that JIM SCHR.ADERER is with the lOth Infantry Division in Wurzburg, Germany. Bob's address is H/S Co, 62nd Tank Battalion, 10th Infantry Divi­sion, APO 36, N. Y., N. Y. 

The Class of 1916, back for their 40th, met at the Morris Inn on Friday night for a special dinner. Seated: Paul Smith, Indianapolis, Ind.; Casey Krajewski, Chicago, 111.; and Jake Eckel, Skancatales, N. Y. Standing: Class secretary Grover Miller, Racine, Wis.; Ray Humphreys, Denver, Colo.; Walter McCourt, Akron, O.; Joe Flynn, Rochester, N. Y.; Ed Beckman, New York City; Tim Galvin, Hammond, Ind.; Lou Keifcr, Terrc Haute, Ind.; and Baseball Coach Jake Kline of Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, August^ 1956 
I had a nice note from JOHN STEWART re­cently from the North American College, Via Dc ^ Gianicole 14, Rome. John says, "I've been over here since October and hope and pray to come back home a Priest in I960. Several ND men have managed to get together in the last few days here due to some happy coincidence in the Universal Notre Dame night held at the Holy Cross Brothers' school in Rome. I ran into BOB ETTLEBRICK and his wife Judy going there. JOE GENIESSE, C.S.C., and CHUCK O'BRIEN, C.S.C., were present for the meeting. PAT LALLY and BILL REYNOLDS were down a few wceks.^ ago. Both arc in this area with the Army. TOil ^ SCHWINN is in St. Bernard's Theological Sem­inary in Dubuque, Iowa." 
BOB PIORKOWSKI sends a note from his Edi­tor-Sales Promoter's desk in the News Bureau Oflice of the General Electric Company at Schenec­tady, New York. Bob is the proud poppa of three lovely cliildrcn now. JOE JOYCE, TOM SHORT and DICK SULLIVAN have been sliaring an apart­ment in South Bend while finishing their last se­mester at the Law School. Fran Romance received a M.A. in Soviet and Eastern European Studies aV. school prior tn his attendance at Navy OCS. Hl ^ has recently become engaged to Miss Ann Pickcrt of Batavia, New York. Ann is Jim's sister and he is presently with the Army in Korea. 
I had a pleasant visit from Lt. (jg) DICK EHR prior to leaving the San Diego area. Dick and JIM BUCK are stationed with the Navy Air Corps at Miramar Naval Air Station in San Diego. They are both attaclied to Squadron V.\-I45 and piloting .ADs is their line of business. Dick and his wife, and a recent addition, are living at 3126 Cowley Way, Apt. No. I, San Diego, Calif. Jim and his wife and two children are living at 3228 CIairr^\ mont Dr., San Diego. Dick reported the finn* showing that the '54 men made in their class at Pensacola, four of them finishing in the top four spots in the class. He also passed on the word on some of the other fly boys; £D MILOTA and BILL SIPES are with Squadron VF-121 at Mira­inar, JOE PIKELL is with Squadron VP-9 at Ala­meda NAS, California. BILL McCLURE and TOM LINDSAY are flying at Quonset Point, R. I., while JACK O'HARA and JERRY POST are holding down flight instructors jobs at Pensacola. 
TOM HAYES reports in from Loyola Medical School where he and the following named '54r>.­are closing in on their degrees. The lucky one'i^ arc: FRANK BROUCEK, DICK LOEFFLER, JOE COLLIGAN, BILL CONLEY, RAY ROSE­DALE, TED SCHAEFFER, AL MACKSOOD. DICK NIXON and DICK POLLEY. Tom sends on the following: "Last July, I married the former Miss Margaret Haviland in Gnmd Rapids, Michi­gan, whicli is home for both of us. PHIL ZURLO &ent his regrets at not being able to make it, as he was being married the next day. Phil is at Flower Medical Scliool in New York. Over Christ­mas vacation I ran into JOE MEAD who was on leave at the time from Fort Holabird but still counting the da>-s until his time was tip thi^, summer. Met BOB MORRISON at a party re ^ cently, can't recall what he said he was working at, but he appeared lo be looking after his social activities diligently! TOM C/VSEY reports that he and DON LOGAN are busy in their junior year at Northwestern Medical School, while DAVE BRO\\'NE is working for the Upjohn Co. I am living at 1444 Granville, Chicago 26, and would enjoy seeing anyone passing through.** 
Lt. (jg) PHIL DOELL reports the following from the USS Redwing (AMS-200) F.P.O., New^ York: "I am serving on board as the Engineering W Oflicer, First Lieutenant, and Supply Officer. As ' if I didn't have enough to do, I recently took the big step and married the former Miss Natalie Healy of the big scliool across the Dixie." Heard from another staunch Navy man in Lt. (jg) ED McGINN. Last I saw of him was in Japan but he reports that his eyes no longer have that charac­teristic slant that developed after nearly eighteen months out there and "he is a true **round eye" again. Ed reports in from the following address: Sub Group One, U.S. Naval Base, Philadelphia 12, Pa. He describes his present job with the foIf£ ) lowing: "It's great! As Personnel Officer with this 400-man Reserve Fleet I have a position that i.s interesticg and to a large extent is allied to a civilian job." Ed took time out to take a lovely wife named June when he arrived back in the States and by now I trust he has set aside the Navy blues and is pursuing a civilian occupation. In the four years we spent on the campus we never saw a production that could cxcell those produced by the Chicago Club, even if they were just half trying. ART PETERSEN gave it the full college tr\- in a letter of his recently con­

ccrning the "Chitown'* crowd and n-arly forced "y? to change the name of this column to CHI­CAGO '54. Thanks for all of the help Art, if you'll just type the next one Til send it on to our good friend in the Alumni Oflice, John Cack-Icy, in its entirety. The marvelous context follows. "Some of us Chicagoans pulled some fine deals with Uncle Sam. I am at present the Executive Ofliccr of a NIKE guided missile battery located at North Field, Illinois, a mere ten minutes from my home. The duty is pretty hca%'y, but then there is nothing like electronics for an English ^.suijor. As for my home life, I just picked up 
'^^' second deduction via Great Lakes Naval Hos­pital, this one a girl to complement my boy now- one year old. BILL MORLEY is also with my outfit, stationed on the Southwest side, acting in the capacity of Radar Officer. Being in tlic same battalion wc see quite a bit of each other. BILL SULLIVAN joined the ranks of the Chi­cagoans who lucked out when he was assigned to the 13th AAA BN. He is quite conveniently sta­tioned on the South side. 
"SKIP CRANE stuck with the Air Force Na­^^ipnal Guard and managed to be assigned to '•^rHani AFB here in Chicago. He is scr\'ing as 
a Supply Officer for a squadron of F-^GD's. Skip also has a future Notre Dame footballer in his family. I saw TOM DE.MPSEY at Christmas time. Demps joined up for three years in order to get into the Counter Intelligence Corps who sent him to a year of school at Monterey in sunny California. He claims a fluent speaking knowledge of Russian and Polish as a result. The CIC has since sent Demps to Europe to help figure out the Ruskys, I guess. That ought to confuse them good. 
^^*'JAV BAIER is still dodging Uncle Sam by at­^ndin g Northwestern Law School here in town. His brother, Jerr>', pulled one of the deals of the class by getting into the Army Security Agenc>' and winding up stationed in Hawaii, just a stone*s throw from Waikiki Beach. Not only that, but hc*s a plain clothcsman, has his own car and shares an apartment with other 'fellow travellers.* Vm not limited at thlt time to local ncw*s but can furnish some notes from Europe too. JIM STUBLER finally got back to the 'fatherland,' immediately bought himself a Volkswagon and began looking up relatives in Krautland and thereabouts. He is tion to this he is ser\-ing as first lieutenant in a 
f^ild artillery battalion. Shortly after he arriied ^icre a green recruit by the name of JIM &\HILL reported to his outfit. 
"JACK NxVSHERT is living in El Paso where he is stationed at Fort Bliss scr\*ing as a clerk in a training battery. JACK SULLIVAN is living here in Chicago and working as a salesman with the 
A. B. Dick Co. LEO MICHUDA spent a year at the Julliard School of Music in New York and is going back to Notre Dame in the Fall to take engineering according to my latest report. If I know him he'll be there to meet us for our fifth reunion." 
, ^Tha t sums up the news of the Chicago tribe 
pretty well, many thanks Art for alt of the info and for the fine example you give some of these other gifted writers from the larger cities. Before I forget it. Art is living at 1317^ Oak Ave., Evanston, III. 
.\ftcr that I only have a bit more to offer, that is to mention that I ran into JOHN TRACANO at the recent San Diego Universal Notre Dame Night. John is in charge of the local Marine rifle range at Camp Mathues just outside of San Diego. He is lucky enough to have the company out here 
a very nice wife and as I understand it, two 

J
f Ivcly children. Also saw JOE ZIEMBA who is holding down a Supply Officers job on the USS Hector (AR-7). The Skipper of that vessel is none other than an old Skipper of ours, CAPT. 
F. P. LUONGO. It is with great regret that I must report the death of one of our most beloved classmates, Lt. (jg) LARRY ASH. Larr>- met with death in a plane crash near Pittsburgh, Pa., on March 26th. His parents may be assured he is being remembered by all of us in our prayers. f;^ ROBERT L. LeHANE has been promoted to project engineer at the IBM Products Development Laboratory, Poughkcepsie, X. Y. Bob is in charge of an electronics group working on a data process­ing system for demand-deposit banks. Want to save a little room for the Class of '55 and it's hard to believe I've been away that long but the Class of '56 might tr>- and edge in this edition too. Before closing I want to remind all of the annual Notre Dame Foundation. Have they heard from you this year? And if I haven't heard 
from you how about a quick line to help this material grow. 
EDWARD R. O'CONNOR has been appointed a U. S. Foreign Ser\"ice Officer with the Depart­ment of State, Washington. D. C. 
19S S ^'^* "^oiii^ F* O'Mallcy 
•'•'* ' 6738 Kenwood Kansas City, Missouri 
Well, here we go again to begin the process of tracking down some of the people who are making the news and who claim the class of '55 as their origin. I'm a little sorry to report so early in the column that news has been few and far between and that I received a .000001 percent return on my last two-cent postcard request for information. However, I'll relate what I know and let you all use your imaginations as to what would have filled in all of the blank spaces. 
I received a letter from a fellow whom I knew at Supply Corps School %\'ho reports hanng seen PHIL SHERIDAN in San Francisco. Phil was probably taking a breather between trips to the Orient on the U.S.S. Hancock. MIKE DePADRO and his wife Anne now call Quantico, Virginia, their home, at least for the time being. Mike is in training there with the Marines. After spending some time with the Navy in Athens, Georgia, ROY BELKNAP is taking the nuptial leap as evidenced by the wedding invitation that I received in the mail. By the time this column is printed, Roy will have married Miss Maureen Sullivan on the 9th of June. Congratulations and best wishes to vou both. AUo being sen-ed a heaping portion of wedded bliss will be DICK O'ROURKE who also beats this column deadline by having married the former Miss Carolyn Linnig on the 5th of June. Our best wishes go your way also, Dick. Appar­ently this shore duty is quite a deal. 
From the U.S.S. San Marcos (LSD-25), FPO, 

N. Y., N. Y., FRANK Mca\RTHY %vritcs that all goes well and that he is finding Navy life quite agreeable. Frank mentions that a trip to Santa Claus country is in the offing but one thing that pleases him is that he won't have that long walk to the dining hall. JI.M HESBURGH is still sta­tioned aboard the U.S.S. Fremont (APA-44) oper­ating off the East coast. A sLx-month Med trip is planned for him sometime during the summer. Frank also reports that GENE SCHMIT is aboard the U.S.S. Chittcndon County (LST-561) and has been over in Japan for the last five months. Oh those steam baths. 0\R L BRATTON married the former Miss Dorothy Gaynor on May I2th at the Holy Spirit Church in Louiswlle. Carl just com­pleted a sixteen week electronics school at Great Lakes and will be stationed aboard the U.S.S. Magoffin (APA-199). BILL WALSH is stationed on the U.S.S. Hollis (APD 86). Frank makes one request before he closes his letter and that is for PAUL MARBACH's address and whereabouts. Who can give us a hand? 
I received a card from someone stationed aboard the U.S.S. Possumpsic and it took a few days to translate the handwriting. I think that it must have been from ^^KE COSTELLO \vho apparently was having a rough day at sea. Good to hear from you, Mike, and if you get a chance, TYPE me a letter containing some sea stories. I'm sure that even the landlubbers would enjoy them. PAUL DWYER sends a newsy note from Chicagoland saying that he is working for the Arthur Anderson .Accounting firm and plans to marry Miss Barbara Balestri, also from Chicago, sometime in Novem­ber. Keep us posted, Paul, and maybe some of these rich '55 alumni will send uranium stocks to you and your wife to be. All of the news to follow was taken from Paul's letter. JOE HAG­GERTY was drafted into the Na\-y last September. He couldn't have been any more fortunate. JOHN HESTER spent some time in the field of account­ing until Uncle Sam discovered his mailing address and grabbed him in April. JOHN DWTER has also found a home in the Army and rumor has it that he didn't realize what he had been missing all these years. John and Miss Jackie Jensen will make news in Chicago when they **tie the knot" on the 16th of June. WALT McJtENNA is earning his battle ribbons at the Fifth Army Headquarters in Chicago. He'll have as many as I will by the time that I leave Olathe. Paul says that Walt will also be able to file a joint income txx return sometime in September. HAL WILLENBORG writes from the U.S.S. Everett F. Larson (DDR­
830) that things become very hectic as the only Supply Officer aboard a ribald rust bucket. Hal has been seeing his share and more of the world and sends stirring descriptions of his activities in the Med. He reports hearing from DAVE METZ who is now a full Ensign and who will attend school in Florida under the well known Navy plan. Also. Hal says that he ran into BERNIE TRACEY who is attached to his DESDIV on another ship. For the benefit of you civilians. DESDIV is the Latin for "soft job." 
While paginic through the latest issue of the "Navy Times." I noticed the names of two fellow graduates. STEVE REBORA has recently been graduated from the 0C3 school in Newport and received his commission tn the Navy. JACK SORANNO, who until recently was stationed at Norfolk, Virginia, has been transferred to the Naval Supply Activity on Guam. Some people get all the breaks. If you get a minute. Jack, drop me a line. HARVE MUELLER writes that he is a research assistant in the Experimental Pathology and Toxicology Research Department of Parke, Davis and Company in Detroit. Seems to me that it would be easier to pronounce the words "I'm not working" than have to go through the Pathology and Toxicology bit again. DICK DEICHMANN was married to the former Miss Marlene Harmon on the 5th of May in New Or­leans. Dick is now serving time as a second Lt. in the Marine Corps. ELLIOTT "ROCK" LESE is a novice at Epiphany Apostolic College, New-burgh, New York. 
JOHN TRAMONTINE dropped me quite an in­formative note- so I'll pass the ncv%'s along. John himself Is working for the Esso Standard Oil Com­pany in New York. He plans to marry Miss Nancv* McCabe in Billings, Montana, on July 14th. Con­gratulations, John, and thank vou for supplying all of the news that follows. JACK MURRAY is on Okinawa with the 3rd Marine Division. BOB FLEMING is working for RCA in Cincinnati. BILL PETRY is attending Georgetown Law School. Down Quantico way we have JOHN CONNAUGH­TON who is going through basic training after receiving his commission at Officers' Candidate School. TO.M FINNEG.AN and JOE MULDOON are two more in the lineup at the Law Scliool at Georgetown. You can't tell your graduates without a score card. John says that RAY KEN­NEDY is working in CinrinnatI but he can't re­member the company. Maybe it would be a good Idea for Ray to write and fill us all In. BOB RUSSELL is in Korea wlih the Air Force. MAJ. FR.^ K C. BUSBEE was recently appointed com­mander of the 8501st air reserve squadron at O'Hare field. Park Ridge, III. 
RICK HICKS and his wife Pat sent a birthday card when this sage put on another year. They're living in Chicago where Rick is in finance with Shcarson, Hammill and Co. Thanks for the card, folks, and all you alumni be sure to float your next bond issue with Rick, who sends the next few tidbits of news. TOM BARNICLE is In Germany with the Army. JOHN MURNANE is working as an insurance underwriter in Chicago. TIM SHEA is attending Law- School at Northwestern and finding time for trips to Florida. HENRY SCHEN­DORF is In the grain brokerage business in Chi­cago. As he ends his letter. Rick also asks for RON KEUBER's address so anyone in the know, please drop me a line and I'll forward it to him. 
BOB JASMAN writes that he Is still working as a test engineer at the Glenn L. Martin Com­pany of Baltimore. Bob says that he plans to vacation with JIM COURTNEY or JIM GIBBONS in Cuba this summer. Jim C. Is working for the Ford Motor Co. in Detroit while Jim G. Is working for the Equitable Life Assurance Co. in Columbia^ South Carolina. TOM SIERON is now ^vorking at the Aberdeen Proving Grounds near Baltimore.' JOHN U1LKENS is engaged and will be married sometime this summer. ED LIEVENS is continu­ing his education at the University of Southern California. Ed is working for Douglas when not attending school. 
I find that I'm at the end of the news so I'll quit while I'm ahead. Again, this column is only as lengthy and as interesting as you yourselves make it. Without your help, the only thing that you'll sec under the class of '55 will be my name and address. One more parting note. What hap­pened to the Air Force and Army news? You people aren't going to let the Navy dominate this column, are you? Don't fall down on the job, but remember, "Keep the Fleet to Keep the Peace." 
1956 ^'^''° ^' ^'^^ 
No. 2 Dromara Road Laduc 24, Missouri (Editor's Note: Al Vitt will serve as your claw 5«;retar>' during the ensuing five years. He will appreciate receiving information about you and from you about other class members. We will greatly appreciate your cooperation—the class col­umn Is the most effective way of maintaining class spirit and Interest throughout the vcars.—^John Cackley) 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ August, 1956 47 
Ofilice.fl/ /4e PneiideHt 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
Midland, Te.\as Fellow Alumni: July 1, 1956 
During six beautiful days in what otherwise has been a miserable spring around South Bend, there were considerable "doins" at Notre Dame. 
Your Alumni Board met in an abbreviated session on Tuesday and \Vednesday and then participated in joint sessions with sixty-eight Alumni Club presidents from all over the country' for two days of concentrated sessions dealing with all phases of club activity. After hearing the "party line" by affable Jim Armstrong and his able Alumni Office staff, specific problems were discussed. Questions raised on each problem produced a lively exchange of ideas which should prove helpful to the individual club. 
You should be proud of your representatives—their endiusiasm and serious approach to the complexities of club guidance has assured the administration that a continuance of this program is beneficial to the Alumni and to Notre Dame. 
On Friday the "Old Grads" poured in for their respective class reunions—eight hundred strong. Any at­tempt to recount the niyriad happenings, impressions and relived memories would fill a book—however, sev­eral highlights stand out in my mind.—^The Class of '06^fifty years young—including Fathers Doremus and Burke.—^The "Twenty Fivers"—Class of '31—^Rock's last and perhaps his best—Metzger, O'Connor, Conley, et al, all looking fit and ready to go.—The screwballs of '36 out twenty years who broke up the '31 "bar asso­ciation" meeting on Sunday attempting to throw "water boy" Mazziotti into the lake.—^The genuine interest exhibited in fellow classmates and things Notre Dame: 
Personal—"The last twent)' years haven't done a thing for you!" Sectional—"Do they allow colored television in Memphis?" Local—"What happened to the board sidewalks?" 
—The man who has won more games for Notre Dame than anyone living or dead—Jack Shea, '06—author of the Victory March.—^The standing ovation given Father Hesburgh at the conclusion of his dynamic speech. —^The sadness in discussing our missing friends.—^The beauty and serenfty of the campus—the grotto—the lakes—the new buildings—and the spiritual stimulation of returning to this lovely spot where Our Lady etched indelibly in our minds four unforgettable years. 
Sincerely, 
Qo^J^ ^:>L.i^c^ 

JOSEPH I. O'NEILL, JR., President 
V' 
PRINTCD AT Ave MARIA PRESS 







