The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
THE NOTRE DAME 

ALUMNUS 
Vol. 17 No. 2 
JSto, 
s. \x \ 
• J. Lt ! V­
: S. U I :.^ 

CBEETS THE aLDMHI o r 
HOTEL 



M^ALPIN 
fnm $2.80 a day. singla. $4 and $4.S0 danUa. 
MIOAOWAY AT 34tfc mOB T MBWTMUCGirr 
Vadn XHOTTltaM(awnl lOHN I. WOEUTU, JVUM W 


The Notre Dame Alumnus 
JAMES E . ARMSTRONG, 75 The magaziae is published from October to June inclusive by the Alumni Association Member of die American Edilor Alumni. Council 
of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is $2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annua) alumni dues of $5.00 include WlUOAM R. DoOLEY. 7 6 B yearns subscription to THE ALIHiINIJS. Entered as second-^lass matter January 1. Member of Nal1. Cadiolic Managmg Editor 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1379. Alumni Federation 
Vol. 17 NOVEMBER, 1938 No. 2 
The Architects of Notre Dame 
(To commemorate the iOth anniver­sary of the Department of Architec­ture at Notre Dame, Professor Ker­vick this year issued a handsome il­lustrated review. This article formed the historical preface in that revieto. —Eds.) 
Since the middle of the seventeenth century there has been on the grounds now occupied by the University of Notre Dame some form of human shelter. There were first the huts of the Potawattomie Indians, who be­came Christians at an early period, and of the French yoyageurs who paused at the little St Mary's Lake as they made their difficult way west­ward to their goal—the Mississippi River—over the Portage, at the St. Joseph's Eiver, which borders the present land of the university. Some­what later a log chapel, with living room, was built for the priest who taught the Indians the truths of the Catholic religion so well that for gen­erations they kept them in mind, in spite of the later destruction of the chapel and the long period of English occupation. 
Pokagon, the great chief of the Potawattomies, • fearing that these truths would be forgotten by his people, made to Father Gabriel Rich­ard the vicar general of Detroit, a touching appeal for a priest as mis­sionary to the tribes of Indians still left in this part of the wilderness. Father Richard persuaded the great missionary pastor Father Stephen Theodore Badin to include this Indian mission in his already very extensive 'parish.' The addition of some thou­sands of square miles did not appall a priest who wandered constantly from Southern Kentucky to Northern Indiana seeking out on the prairies and in the forests the scattered white Catholics. Father Badin rebuilt 
By Francis W . Kervick 
Head, Department of Architecture 

Famous Men Have From the Begin­nins Contributed Much to the Artistry of the Notre Dame Campus. 
the chapel on St Mary's Lake and purchased from the government a tract of land surrounding it, with the thought that this would be an excellent site for a school. When age and debts prevented him from further effort in this direction, he made over to the Bishop of Vincennes the title to the land. 
Fortunately, Rev. Edward Frede­rick Sorin and six Brothers, of the religious community known as the Congregation of the Holy Cross, had just come from France to the Dio­cese of Vincennes, for work on the American missions of Indiana and in the field of education. The bishop of Vincennes offered Father Sorin and the Brothers the tract of land deeded to him by Father Badin, on condition that the young priest would take spiritual care of the Indian mission and have a college open for students 
PBOFESSOE P. W. KEBVICK 

in two years. The offer was accepted, and, with an initial capital of jnst 
• four hundred dollars. Father Sorin and his Brothers succeeded in build­ing promptly what is known as Old College—still standing. It was and is a brick structure forty feet square and a story and a, half in height, on the south shore of the waters which later gave to the TTniversity its cor­porate name of Notre Dame dn Lac It was indeed a college building in simplest form, but it satisfied the conditions attached to the gift of land. Alexis Coqnillard, a youth who had guided Father Sorin and his com­panions through the forest from his father's trading post in South Bend to their new home on S t Mary's Lake, was the first student enrolled in the new college. 
Before long there was need for more ample quarters for the school, and so a second building was begun, to provide the needed accommoda­tions, for a college that was natural­ly French in many respects. It was French in disdplbie and French in methods of instruction, and with help from various sources in France the institution enjoyed a prompt and steady growth. The poor of Prance, the nobility, and even the Emperor and Empress of France were alike intrigued with the story that came across the Atlantic concerning the devotion . and self-sacrifice of their countrymen in caring for the 'red' Indians. 
One part in the development of the institution was the laying out of a broad avenue, for nearly a mile to­ward South Bend, and IJie planting of a botanic garden. And soon there were visions of a great church to be. erected, even though the young university could as yet be regarded 
ment in the plan of the University. As the school grew other buildings were needed. It was the plan of Father Sorin to have a grand fagade fronting on the lake, in addition to that facing the quadrangle to the south of the buildings, but this idea was not carried out. A congeries of structures was added at the rear of the main building, several of them by the Community carpenters. Brother Charles and Brother Columbkille. The group is simple and utilitarian, but there is about these buildings a charm that attracts the trained designer, and as long as they stand they con­stitute what in student parlance is known as the "French Quarter." 
The University church was de­designed by the architect Patrick Keeley, a pupil of Pugin and a noted builder of Catholic churches in the United States. When one recalls his thoroughly English cathedral in Charleston, South Carolina, he won­ders who dictated the essentially French plan of the church at Notre Dame. A church nearly three hundr-^ feet long, with three aisles and witli ambulatory and chevet chapels, was an ambitious effort for a university of sixty-seven years ago. It is built of the same brick as the main build­ing, and the trim is in Joliet lime­stone. The interior decoration re­minds one of Santa Maria sopra Minerva, and this resemblance is not strange when one recalls that the painter, Luigi Gregori, was an artist of established reputation in Home before he came to Notre Dame to devote twenty years to the decora­tion of the University buildings and that the only Gothic church in Rome would naturally be his inspiration. 
The glass in many of the windows of the church was designed and made in the Carmel at Le Mans, in which 
(Continued on Page 49) 
only as an experiment in the wilder­ness on the frontier of civilization. 

. Years of hard trial were ahead, years that brought terrible con­tagion, civil war, and destruction of most of the buildings, including a new main building, by fire. The build­ings, however, might be destroyed, but the enthusiasm of Father Edward Sorin survived every kind of discour­agement, and so a much larger and better college building, the present main structure, was promptly deter­mined upon. A competition was an­nounced as a way of securing the best jrassible design for the new structure, and more than thirty archi­tects submitted plans. The records do not give the names of the architects who had designed the earlier build­ing and there is no infonnation con­cerning the method employed in the selection of designs. It seems that Father Sorin .was his own profes­sional adrisor and his own jui-y. He had in an early period at Notre Dame visualized the golden dome which was to be the pedestal of the patron of the University, Mary Immaculate, whose help is so often manifest in the histoiy of Notre Dame. 
This educational edifice, designed by W. J. Edbrooke, at one time archi­tect of the United States Treasury, is large and impressive. With the dimensions of a state capitol, the structure rises four stories upon a high basement. For many years it provided the space necessai-y for prac­tically all the activities of the high-school and the college students. In the basement were two large dining rooms, ser\'ed by food carts from a kitchen near by. The kitchen deserves mention also as being the place in which the Sisters of the Holy Cross developed the skill that produced the oblong pies that are still recalled with relish by old students and mem­
Abivini Hall 
bers of the faculty of former decades. On the upper floors of the building were the study halls, in which the students had their desks, and the dormitories, with their curtained rooms, as also the classrooms, the library and private rooms for mem­bers of the faculty. Such was the general arrangement in the building which for many years served the purposes mentioned and which-is still 
Architecture Building 
the official center of the University. 
This main building is built of pale yellow brick, made of a clay found near St. Joseph's River and burned with wood cut from the surrounding forests. It is an eclectic and some­what naive combination of pointed windows, mediaeval mouldings, and classic columns. The great dome of metal, overlaid with gold leaf, rises high above the roof and, with pointed outline, serv'es as a pedestal for the statue of the Blessed Virgin, pati'on of the University. The Abbe Klein, in an account of a sojourn of his at Notre Dame, in his book "The Land of the Strenuous Life," men­tions his surprise and delight in finding at Notre Dame so much evi­dence of the culture of France, and he further i-ecalls his impression of the dome as being similar to tliat produced by the Val de Grace, in Paris. This similarity may for the most part have existed only in the mind of this Parisian writer, but there were indeed at Notre Dame many evidences of French design. At what other college of that period would one have found a mile long avenue with four rows of trees, pro­viding a \'ista terminated by a dome of gold? There was, also from the beginning evidence of real plan in the ari-angement of the college buildings. On one side of the original quad­rangle, in orderly arrangement, are the religious buildings and the resi­dence halls for students, and on the other the academic buildings and the auditorium. Thus, in the early work is no evidence of any "Topsy" develop­
Main Building 

November, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


The Rockne Memorial is a Reality 
On// one step remains for us—fo GIVE! 

"In an age that has stamped itself as the era of the go-getter—a horrible word for what is all too often a ruth­less thing—he (Rockne) was a go­giver—a not much better word, but it means a divine thing...." (from the funeral sermon preached for "Rock" by the late Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06.) 
This is not an Ordinary Request 

despite it's great development, Notre Dame has enlisted the financial aid of alumni only twice in 96 years, and for the majority of our members this is the first appeal for funds for any purpose. 

This is not an Ordinary Cause 

for in Knute K. Rockne were em­bodied all the attributes of the suc­cessful man who nevertheless carried the highest ideals with him to the pinnacle of that success. In him was the spirit of Notre Dame. World-famed, he was essentially a Notre Dame man. 

This is not an Ordinary Monument 

containing all of the architectural grandeur of a magnificent monument, its utility adds that living dynamic contribution to the upbuilding of a wholesome youth which was so much a part of the living "Rock" it commemorates. 
Your District Governor has approached you by letter. 
The Local Clubs are preparing to follow through with a personal reminder. 
But the essential, and the obviously desirable thing, is to have the Book of Memory, in the Memorial foyer, which will list all donors, contain the names of every Notre Dame man! 
Whether the gift is a thousand, or a hundred, or fifty, or twenty-five, or only one or two dollars a month for a year as the pledge card permits, is relatively unimportant IF WE HAVE 


EVERY NOTRE DAME MAN A GIVER 
If you can't give, but can get, write Art Haley, '26, for a book of Memorial "bricks" in any denominations or amount you can dispose of. 

THE BUILDING IS UP--NOW, "EVERYBODy UPI" 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1938 



eiTTS 

The University acknowledges with deep gratitude the following gifts: 
ANONYMOUS (For Apologetics Scholarships). ..$1,000.00 
From FEED B. SNITE, '33, Chicago, III.—^"Two folio volumes of the works of Gilray and Hogarth." 
From MISS ESTELLE BRICK, South Bend, Ind.— 
"Copy of Addresses and Speeches of the Hon. Abraham L. Brick, '95." 
From EDWIN T. HOTALING, Cazenovia, N. Y.—^"Autographed album and picture of 'Minnehaha' crew of 1884." 
From ALFREDO DE ZUBIRIA. S., Columbia, South America— 
Four volumes of "Historias, I^eyendas y Tradiciones de Cartagena de Indias." 
From SHANE LESLIE, LL.D., '35, Glaslough, Eire—^"Letters of Mrs. Fitzherbert to King George IV." 
'For the Nieuwiand Mennorial 

Previously acknowledged _ _ ?38,182.53 Anonymous _ 6,442.92 
Total to date . ..?44,625.45 
For the Roclcne Memorial 

Max Adler. 'SS. South Bend, lad. _ $ 75.00 Robt F. Fitzgerald. '26. TJtica. N. Y. 2.00 Rev. C. B. Motsctt '31. Kewanee, 111. 6.00 Clarence A. Alter, Ft, Wayne, Ind 6.00 Miss Agnes M. Fitzsimmons, N. Y. City 4.40 J. A. Moulder. '37. Buffalo, K. Y. _ 10.00 Harry W. Baals. Ft. Wayne, Ind 25.00 Lew Fleming, South Bend, Ind. —. 100.00 John P. Murphy, '12, Qcveland, O. 100,00 Gconre H. Baldus, "24, Ft. Wayne. Ind. 10.00 Vincent T. Fletcher, '32, Utica. N. Y. 5.00 C. M. Niezcr, '97. F t Wayne. Ind 100.00 Ed H. BcrEhotr. 'IS. Ft. Wayne. Ind. 25.00 F. & S. Transit Co., South Bend. Ind. 60.00 Most Rev. John F. Noll, D.D.. LU). . 
G. A. Bcrehoff. Ft. Wayne, Ind 25.00 Charles J. Golden, Ft. Wayne, Ind 5.00 •15. F t Wayne. Ind. 60.00 Huber Berghoff. Fl. Wayne, Ind 6.00 Joseph N. Goldstine, Ft. Wayne, Ind. 1.00 Lou Nagelsen. '10. F t Wayne. Ind_ 5.00 
R. J. Bershoir. Ft. Wayne. Ind 6.00 Jos. P. Grace. LL.D., '37, N. Y. City 100,00 Louis F. Niezer, '29, F t Wayne, Ind. 2o.00 
J. A. Becker. Ft. Wayne, Ind. 1.00 Martin J. Grace, Ft. Wayne, Ind 25.00 Otis Elevator Co., South Bend. Ind. 100.00 
Henry Beadell, Ft. Wayne. Ind 5.00 Frank C. Graftc, Ft. Wayne. Ind 5.00 Our Lady of Perpetual Help School, Alvin H. Berger. '15. F t Wayne. Ind. 10.00 Earl F. Grubcr. '05, Frankfort. Ind. 100.00 Toledo, O. . 2.00 Frank A. Biemer, Ft, Wayne. Ind 5.00 Getz & Cahill, F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 L. G. Parrott F t Wayne. Ind. 6.0« Frank Bobay, Ft. Wayne. Ind, 5.00 Mr. & Mrs. A. P. Hall. F t Wayne, Ind. 25.00 Peerless Press, Inc., South Bend — 25.00 Maurice Boland, *25, F L Wayne, Ind. 2.00 Dan Hanley. Notre Dame. Ind. 60.00 Radio Equipment Co.. South Bend 25.00 F, M. Boone, South Bend. Ind 10.00 George B. Harrison, South Bend, Ind. 5.00 Leo A. Rees. '29. Rome. N. Y. 5.00 Thos. A. Bradley. New York City— 25.00 Henry Haslcy. '28. F t Wayne. Ind, 10.00 Rev. Edmund J. Rcilly. Brooklyn, N,Y. 15.00 M, H. Brennan. '23. Cleveland, 0 25.00 Robert A. Hattersley. F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 Charles Reuss. "11. F t Wayne. Ind. 10.00 
G. CuIIen Burke, "23, Newport, N, Y. 2.00 Clarence Herber, F t Wayne, Ind— 6.00 A. Roetele. F t Wayne, Ind. 3.00 Hugh E. Carroll. '10. E. Chicago, Ind, 10.00 Frank Hogan. '14, Ft Wayne, Ind. 5.00 George A. Richtcr, '31. Utica, N. Y. 2.00 Al D, Castellini, "24. Cincinnati. O. 10.00 A\ J. Hoflman. F t Wa5-ne. Ind 6.00 Thos. S. Riley. '15. Wheeling. W. Va. 20.00 Frank J. Callahan. Ft. Wayne. Ind. 10.00 Michael T. Hogan, '24, F t Wayne. Ind. 6.00 J. M. Rohrbach, '23, Crown Point Ind, 25.00 Aust. J. CentlivTC. '23. Ft. Wayne. Ind. 10.00 Rev. H. A. Hocrstman, F t Wayne, Ind. 5.00 William F. Ryan. F t Wayne. Ind. I.OO Herman Centlivrc. '25. Ft. Wayne. Ind. 6.00 E. P, Hutzdl, '06. F t Wayne. Ind, 6.00 George W. Ryder. Ft. Wayne. Ind. 1,00 
C. J. CentJivre, '08. Ft. Wayne, Ind. 20.00 J. C. HutzcU. F t Waj-no. Ind. 5.00 F. D. Schoppman, '30, F t Wayne. Ind, 6.00 Ira W. Ciralsky. South Bend. Ind 60.00 O. D. Hutzell. '04. Ft Wayne. Ind. 6.00 Harold Shay, Rumson, N. J. 1.00 Hubert J. Clancy, Utica, N, Y. 2.00 H. J. Humbrecht '34. F t Wayne. Ind. 10.00 Thomas T. Shovlin. F t Wayne, Ind. 1.00 
L. P. Clark. '34, Florence. N. Y. 2.50 Thos. L. Hickey, cl.,'32. SD. Bend, Ind, 200.00 R. J. Scrvatius. '28. Utica. N. Y 5.00 Paul D. Clark. '32. Florence, N, Y. 2.50 William Jeffors. Omaha, Nebr. . 33.00 Russell Shultz. S t Louis. Mo. 1.00 Dr. Stanley A. Clark. So. Bend. Ind. 200.00 E. J. Kane, F t Wavne. Ind. 1.00 Alfred K. Smith. Ft. Wayne. Ind. _ 1.00 
E. A. Cbales. South Bend, Ind 10,00 William G. Kcane. Fort Wayne. Ind. 2.00 R. F. Sosenheimer. '31. F t Wayne, Ind. 2.00 John C. Cochrane, '23, Toledo. O 10.00 B. T. Reams, '25, F t Wayne, Ind. 10.00 L. R. Stadlcr. '28. Erie, Pa. 20.00 Joseph P. Colligan. F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 Adolph G. Keller. F t Wayne. Ind. 1.00 W. F. Stafford, New York City 200.00 Tom Connelly. F t Waj-nc, Ind 10.00 Dr. John F. Kelley. '22. Utica. N.Y. 25.00 Paul W. Staub, '35, F t Waj-ne. Ind. 5.00 Dr. Charles J. Cooney. F t Wayne, Ind. 6.00 George P. Kinder. '18. F t Wayne. Ind. 6.00 J. M. Stephenson. '10. So. Bend. Ind. 100.00 
C. J. Coral, Ft Was-ne. Ind 1.00 John C. Hug. Ft Wayne. Ind. 3.00 So. Bend Supply Co.. So. Bend. Ind. 100.00 
C. A. Croleau. F t Wayne. Ind. 15.00 Ewald Knebel. South Bend. Ind. 25.00 Carl Suedoff. F t Wayne. Ind. 1.00 
J. A. Curtin. F t Wayne. Ind. 2.00 John G. Koehl. '27. F t Wayne. Ind. 1.00 ' Joseph Suelzer, F t Wayne. Ind. _ 10.00 Martin J. DeWald. F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 F. P. Koester, F t Wayne. Ind. 10.00 Ed S. Sullivan. '24. F t Wayne, Ind. 60.00 Paul DeWald, F t Waj-ne, Ind. 1.00 C. J. Lantemier. F t Wayne. Ind. ..- 1.00 R t Rev. Msgr. Charles Thiele, 'S3, 
C. S. Derham, New York City 10.00 Floyd J. Lcnnon. Utica. N. Y. 10.00 Ft Wayne. Ind. 25.00 
E. J. Disser, F t Wayne, Ind. 6.00 John Lipsie, Utica. N. Y. 2.00 Martin P. Torborg. '34, F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 Frank E. Doan, '29. Cleveland. O 6.00 F. Allen Leterlin, Kokomo. Ind. .90 Frank J. Travers. F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 Frank Donalty. '33. Utica. N. Y. _ 3.00 F. Leslie Logan. '23. F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 P.Gorman Trisler.'19, Huntington, Ind. 2.00 
N. Ed Doran, '20, South Bend, Ind. 25.00 John H. Logan, ir..'35. Ft Wayne, Ind. 6.00 Maurice Tucker. South Bend. Ind— 25.00 Joseph Doody. F t AVasme, Ind 10.00 Loos Insurance Agency. F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 Two Sisters. Ft. Wa>-ne. Ind. 2.00 Victor D'Unger. F t Wayne. Ind. _ 1.00 Lester L. Lovier, '26. Rome, N. Y. 10.00 F. W. VanAntwern. South Bend. Ind. 25.00 
J. Oscar Dor^vin. '17. New York City 25.00 E. Lowitz. New York City 500.00 J. T. Vocdisch. '28. So. Bend. Ind. 100.00 Drewrys, Ltd.. South Bend. Ind. 25.00 M. C. MacDougal. F t Wavne. Ind 25.00 Wm. E. Voor. '25. South Bend. Ind. 10.00 John Dugan. '23,Marion, Ohio 25.00 Charles H. Manctt F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 J. VcrKecfcr. F t Wayne. Ind. 10.00 Rev. John Durham, F t Wayne, Ind. 10.00 P. A. Manorjki, '34. Huntington. Ind. 6.00 Cliff. B. Ward. '23. F t Wayne, Ind. 10.00 Ed R. Dunn. '36. Utica, N. Y. 2.00 W. L. Martin. F t Wayne. Ind. 1.00 Weisberger Bros.. South Bend, Ind. 25.00 Frank Eakin, F t Waj-ne, Ind. 1.00 R t Rev. D. E, Malone, Grand Rapids. Geo. H. Whedock & Co.. Inc., South 
Dr. K. C. Eberly. F t Wayne, Ind 5.00 Mich, fadd'tional) 3.5.00 Bend. Ind. 50.00 E. F. Eggeman. '.30. F t Wayne. Ind. 5.00 R. H. McAulille. '18. South Bend. Ind. 25.00 H. C. Williams. South Bend. Ind 25.00 Frank B. Eilcrs. Fort Wayne, Ind. 6.00 James McBcnnctt Ft. Wayne. Ind. 6.00 Anonymous .. 6.00 Grand Lodte, B.P.O. Elks 100.00 J. E. McArdle, F t Wayne. Ind. _ 6.00 Anonymous 1.00 
Gunnar Elliott. Ft Wayne. Ind. __ 10.00 Dr. McDonald. Utica. N, Y. _ 10.00 
Total new gifts . _S 3.967.30 

D. Sherman Ellison. South Bend. Ind. 25.00 K.V.B. McDonald. '06. F t Wayne. Ind. 16.00 
Previcrasly acknowledged . - 175.734.29 
Wayne H. Ewing. '28. Weston. O 10.00 E.R. McEndarfcr.'18. S-iuth Bend. Ind. 60.00 
E. L. Fcustel, Fort Wayne, Ind. _ 5.00 T. A. McKiem.in. '27. F t Wayne. Ind. 25.00 Grand total to date _$179.701,59 
Frank Fink. '30. Huntington. Ind. 10.00 Rev. D. L. Monahnn. F t Wayne. Ind. 10.00 (October 31. 1938) John Morris. F t Wayne. Ind. . 5.00 
i^ ^,'ciA.^.d'J.C. 

November, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Southern Cal Reception 


The Notre Dame Guild 
Flans for a "gigantic reception" 

By Charlei A. Grimes, '20 
for the Notre Dame football team 
when it arrives in California for the 
Southern California game on Decem­
Secretary. N. D. Oub of R. L and S. E. Mass. 
Yesteryear you heard us boas t about our refusal to accept prohibi­tion, our 1928 loyalty to Al Smith, and about our delectable clams and clam chowder. The hurricane in its awful surge gave us something more 

MES. CHAKLES M. MCLOUGHLIN 

to brag about, — but don't. For ad­ditional cause for strutting we point to our grand, active, and attractive ladies of The Notre Dame University Guild of Rhode Island and Southeast-em Massachusetts. 
First of its kind in the land, you know, the guild had its inception not quite three years ago. The 1 ocal alumni, strange to say, had a few hundred dollars in the treasury. Leo 
R. McAloon, president at the time, had recently returned from Notre Dame with a notion that the ladies here with N.D. connection ought to organize. Alumni so voted and an enthusiastic, hard-working committee, with J. Clement Grimes as chairman, John S- McKieman and Robert W. Powers, Jr., hastily but thoroughly prepared a constitution and invited 200 relatives and friends of Notre Dame, with a coterie of teachers and outstanding Catholic business and professional women to a get-together. 
Invitations were accepted with an alacrity and unanimity that taxed the capacity of the Narragansett Hotel ballroom where the first meeting was held December 2, 1935. 
"The free eats got 'em here," ob­served a cynic. "This is all we'll ever hear of most of them." 
The cynic was wrong. Alumni of­ficers in. a single session sold the ladies on a greater love for Notre Dame. Assisting wit h convincing talks were the Rev. W. J. Doheny, C.S.C, the beloved Father Crawley, who lost his life in our late storm, and John H. Sheehan. Before the evening was over the women had or­ganized, had elected Miss Elizabeth McLaughlin of Cumberland Hill, pres­ident, had chosen an executive board of eleven from various sections of Rhode Island and nearby Massachu­setts, and agreed on these objectives: 
1.
 The fraternization of Notre Dame friends and alumni. 

2.
 The stimulation of social activ­ity between members and the alumni. 

3.
 The promotion of Catholic Ac­tion, especially the Catholic Youth Organization. 


And have those objectives been attained? 
Really, our respective alumni coun­tenances look like tomatoes every time we blush to think of how the ladies outdistance us! Indeed, it's a cinch boast to prove that not a single 
N.D. alumni club in the land has been as active as the Notre Dame Guild. For the skeptical just a few high spots: 
Regular monthly lectures; outings; joint meetings with the alumni on Universal Notre Dame Nights; a bridge-fashion show that in three short years has become acknowledged "tops" throughout souther n New England; an annual Mother's Day 

MISS MARY GRIMES 

Communion Breakfast that attracts hundreds; whole-hearted participation in the annual Rhode Island hegira to the Notre Dame-Army game; spiritual Retreats; an inter-city all-Guild bowl­
ber 3 were laid by the Los Angeles Club at a luncheon-meeting on Octo­ber 29. While laying the plans the club members listened'to a broadcast of the Irish victory over the Army in New York, and elected niew officers. 
Fred Pique, '30, is the new president; Charlie Gass, '30, vice-president; Tom Ashe, '31, treasurer; and Charles. Kennedy, ex. '29, secretary. The out­going president, Doug Daley, '30, is the honorary president. 
Chuck Kennedy, new secretary, re­ports that Larry Moore was chair­man and master of ceremonies at the meeting and that past presidents Tom Heam, Leo Ward and Gene Kennedy were among the orators. It was de­cided that the club would have a luncheon each Thursday at the -Uni­versity Club at 12 o'clock sharp. 
Club members will be notified by mail and through the pres§ about the reception for the team. Out-of-town alumni atteneding the game are, of course, invited and are asked to watch the Los Angeles papers for details. 
ing league; card parties and bridges; Sunday afternoon teas; and, smile not, — a series of rummage sales which have produced handsomely for the Guild's N. D. Scholarships, the Providence Catholic Charities, Com­munity Fond and others. 
Publicity aplenty attends the Guild's efforts. Scaraely a week passes in which a photo or an item emanating from the Guild's clever publicity committee fails to appear in the local sheets. Nor is radio overlooked. 
When Miss Elizabeth McLaughlin became Mrs. Charles M. McLoughlin and stepped down as president. Miss' Mary R. Grimes, of ftovidence, was elected to fill the position, and has just been re-elected for another year. 
How the Guild can keep the fires of enthusiasm burning, when yon con­sider that hardly ten i>ercent of its members have ever seen the Univer­sity, is a source of wonderment. It is outstanding among women's organ­izations here. It is most happily free of feuds and cliques. It seems to prefer back-scratching to backbiting. 

COMING ISSUES 
The next issue of the ALUM­NUS will be mailed in mid-Decem­ber and the following issue will appear in eariy February. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus November. 1938 


CAMPUS NOTES 
FIVE DOWNS . Subject number one on campus these pre-winter days is still the liis­torical Carnegie Tech game. Elmer (why-give-anybody five-downs) L a y-den has been looked on benignly for his common sense attitude during the tussle. Bull-session opinion is that Gamete quarterback Friedlander got caught trying a fast one. The atti­tude that somewhere there was a little 

•unfairness on N.D.'s part has riled the boys no end. In the final analysis it was DeFranco who knocked the safetj' man for a loop as Kerr scored, not the referee. Campus historians hark back to an official block in a Southern Cal game of two seasons past which directly permitted a tie game; and in that case there was not one-tenth the name-calling which has characterized the decision of this mo­ment. 
V BANDS 
The Illinois 180-piece musical ag­gregation astounded the student sec­tion during the halves of that game. Perhaps the most amazing feature was the band's collective ^villingness to serve as a musical backdrop to a single painted and be-feathered mi­ni's war dance. 
Carnegie's Kiltie-Klad-Kiddies, as per expectations, unleashed a tidal wave of handkerchief waving from the Notre Dame stands. The boys in skirts, however, made quite a hit with their "go ahead, we understand" at­titude. 
V 

STUDENT TRIP Prime amon g happenings here­abouts was the student trip to the Army game, a thing now of happy memory. Some 300 or so exuberant students left for New York and came back with reversed prefixes. Bob Huether, Sharon, Pennsylvania's con­tribution to the S.A.C., reported the trip a great success, and he should know, being chairman of the jaunt. And the stories—wow! 
ARGUMENTS 
Interhall debate teams are again plaguing Wrangler coaches. Under cove r of the question, something about "pump-priming" to aid busi­ness, quite a few Republicans are tossing metaphysical knives in not-so­metaphysical Democrats' backs. Pro and con Rooseveltism is expected to reach its peak around December's second laundry. Until that time Chair­man Al Funk, junior varsity debate man from LaCrosse, Wisconsin, will be busy patching up strained rela­tions between debaters. 
 By VINCENT W . DeCOURSEY. '39 
WAKE WASH. HALL GHOST Old Washington Hall boards are groaning in protest these days. Such goings-on haven't abused them in some years. First of all, after a lapse of six years, feminine voices will read feminine lines in production of the University Theatre. Vincent Doyle, Brooklyn, president of the Players, disclaims this as an attempt to at­tract patronage, although he admits that it vrill possibly help. The first play of the year, scheduled for re­lease sometime after Thanksgiving, will be "Room Service," current Broadway success. 
Then there is the Linnets. That old musical-comedy group is again swinging the steins in harmony and singing out in true operetta gusto. Under the direction of Orville Foster, the group of some 115 freshmen gave its first program in Washington Hall, October 25. Audience opinion was overwhelmingly pro. 
WE DANCED At the Cotillion. That is, about four hundred couples did, to the mu­sic of Johnny Hamp, and under the guiding hands of Joseph Mulligan, class president of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, and cotillion chairman Jack Hennessey of Louisville, Kentucky. The Dome photographer gave up look­ing for the othe sophomore couple. 
And at the Victory Dances. Dan Murphy, Marion, Ohio, was chairman of the first — the Kansas dance — which was under the auspices of the 
S.A.C. Villagers entertained Cotillion guests after the Illinois game, and the Chemistry club members com­pounded an affair after the Carnegie Tech game. 
V ADDENDA 
Making debuts this month are the Notre Dame Lawyer, under the guid­ance of Editor Frank Lanigan, Ija-Porte, Indiana; and Scrip, under the literary sponsorship of Fred Digby, New Orleans . . . Jack Kelly, fresh­man delegate from Los Angeles, hap­pens to be brother to the movie "Tom Sai\'yer" and reports young Tovamy Kelly is already making plans to beat Sheridan out of a job in the back­field—^that is, if Benny stays around long enough . . . Academy of Science members honored sponsor and dean Father Wenninger with a banquet at the Oliver. Toastmaster Harry Rein-hart, Atlantic City, New Jersey, de­livered the eulogy; occasion was Fa­ther Wenninger's fiftieth birthday .. . Villagers also celebrated birthday, fifteenth hectic years of continuous existence. Robert K. Rodibaugh is 
Number One town boy this year . . . Fire reared an ugly head in Walsh Hall one night recently. Brave fire-laddies of the first floor extinguished blaze in 45 minutes, using fire hose, chemicals, blankets . . . New officers of Notre Dame Council Knights of Columbus were installed recently. John J. Murphy, Oak Park, Illinois, is this year's grand knight . . . The La Raza Club, composed of students of Spanish origin, sponsored an out­standing observance of Columbus Day with a banquet. Juan Cintrow, of Puerto Rico, is president of the club. 
CLUB NOTES 
The lads of the Monogram Club held open house one week last month. Entertainment was free, guests were asked to bring their own paddles. Paul Kell, Niles, Michigan's, gift to the Irish line, had the honor seat as chairman of initiation. New mem­bers' seats were not so honored. • ­
Harold Rienecke, head of the Indi­ana Bureau of the F.B.I., spoke to the members of the Law Club at their first smoker. Stewart Roche, Grand Rapids, Michigan, president of the club, announced that the members were to form a legal aid society to assist indigent needing legal aid. 
Men of business, as represented fay three hundred-odd members of the Commerce Forum, are plotting a For­mal Dance to top off the crowded so­cial season. Dave Meskill, of the Back Bay Meskill's, president of the Forum, is promoting a joint stock company to find him a white tie. 
St. Louisans, long held to have the ideal campus club by the Scholastic, are again leading the way in city group activity. Jack Griffin, chief of the clan, announced a Communion breakfast, a golf tournament, and a smoker at the first meeting. 
George O'Neil's Met Club has been drawing praise from, of all places, the Religious Bulletin. It seems that the Met boys were moved to sentimental­ity by the movie "Boy's Town" and chipped in about five bucks to help Father Flannigan's boys along. The club is also, on these wintry morn­ings, trying its best to complete a golf tournament. 
The Academy of Politics, Fred Sisk, of Trinidad, Colorado, directing, spent some fruitful hours getting the Politics faculty informed so as not to disgrace its collective self when the great Symposium (which see) was held. 
The Modernaires, campus dance orchestra directed by George Hene­bry, Plainfield, Illinois, have definitely gone big time. Over the week-end of the Army game they played a short engagement at the Long Island Ca­sino, displacing Will Osborne for a night. 

November, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 


UNIVERSITY AFFAIRS « « 
rjEALING WITH CURRENT poli­
•'-^ tical issues and theories, a new quarterly publication. The Revieiv of Politics, -ivill appear in its first issue at the University late in December, according to Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor. 
The new periodical will "approach the political realities of the day through the principles of philosophy and history," according to Dr. Gur­ian, and will "seek to secure a com­prehension of the drastic political changes of our time." 
A notable list of contributors will pen articles for the new review. In its first issue Jacques Maritain, the leading scholastic philosopher of France, will vrrite on "Integral Hu­manism and the Crisis of Modem Time"; Carl J. Friedrich, of Harvard University on "The Threat of State Absolutism"; Morstein Marx, of Har­vard, on "Bureaucracy and Consulta­tation"; and Dr. Goetz Briefs, of Georgetown University on "The Pro­letariat." 
The managing editors are Dr. Fer­dinand A. Hermens, of Notre Dame's faculty of political science and Fran­cis J. O'Maliey, '32, of the Depart­ment of English. 
The editor. Dr. Gurian, came to Notre Dame last year from Zurich, Switzerland. He was for many years an editor and lecturer in Germany and is the author of numerous books dealing with the theories and prac­tices of fascism and communism. "The Decline and Fall of Mar.xism" is his latest work. 
Dr. Hermens is noted internation­ally for his valuable studies on pro­portional representation. Formerly of Germany he was on the faculty at Catholic University before coming to Notre Dame this year. Recently he was sent to Europe by the Guggen­heim Foundation to make a study of proportional representation. 
Editorial consultants of the new quarterly, which will appear in Jan­uary, April, July and October, include Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.C., '18; Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, '11; Rev. Leo R. Ward, C.S.C, '23, and Prof. Willis Nutting, all of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame. 
ACCEPTING THE INVITATION -^ of Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C, president of the Unii'ersity, the Or'es­tes A. Brownson club of Fort Wayne, Indiana, visited on October 9 the grave of Brownson, distinguished Catholic philosopher, in the basement chapel of Sacred Heart Church. 
At luncheon in the faculty dining room Sister Rose Gertrude, C.S.C, gave the principal address on "Some Aspects of the Influence of Orestes A. Brownson Upon His Contemporaries." 
Miss Josephine Brownson, Detroit, Michigan; Rev. Leo E. Ward, C.S.C, associate professor of philosophy at the University; Francis E. McMahon, assistant professor of philosophy, and Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C, were guests of honor at the memorial exer­cises. 
Benediction xvas given at 3:30 p.m. in the basement chapel. The Brown­son society is a cultural club open to business and professional men of Fort Wayne. 
•pi.^LL
 LECTURERS in Washington •*• Hall have so far included Thomas 

B.
 Morgan, chief correspondent for the United Press in Italy, Albania and northern Africa and author of the popular book, A Reporter at the Papal Court; Maurice Leahy, editor of Poetry Review and secretary of the Catholic Poetry Society of London; Dr. K. Lark-Horovitz, head of the Department of Physics, Purdue Uni­versity; and these faculty members: Desmond Fitzgerald, Waldemar Gur­ian and Arnold Lunn. Mr. Fitzgerald and Mr. Lunn recently returned from Europe to take up temporary work at Notre Dame. 


The most hilarious event of the fall season in Washington Hall was, by long odds, the Jitney Players' presen­tation of "Dear Old Alma Mater," in which Ethel Barrymore Colt, daugh­ter of the famous Ethel, had the lead­ing part. The students were invited to participate by encouraging, vocally, the hero and discouraging the villain. Imagine the response. 
"piROM THE LIST of textbooks -'• written by Notre Dame faculty men, which appeared in the October ALUMNTJS, two titles were omitted: Essentials of Mechanical Dratving and Fundamentals of Architectural Design, both by William Wirt Turner, '16, assistant professor of architec­ture. The latter book, particularly, is widely used by prominent colleges in many parts of the country. 
rPHE CAMPUS RADIO STUDIO, 
•^ operating through WSBT-WFAM, South Bend, had its annual official 
opening on October 12 with a gala program which included songs by the Linnets, reorganized freshman musi­cal organiztaion, music by the Mod­emaires, campus dance orchestra, and talks by Rev. Hugh CDonnell, C.S.C, Elmer Layden and William R. Dooley. The University radio programs are again under the supervision of Rev. Eugene Burke, C.S.C Many features, contributed by both faculty and stu­dents, have been arranged or are planned. 
TV/TANY OF THOSE who have seen 
'•'• much action and gathered many, 
headlines in this fall's football are 
honor students, according to informa­
tion recently released by the oSce of 
the Director of Studies. Ed Simonich 
has the highest scholastic average 
among those on the traveling squad. 
Close behind in the honor ranks are 
Bill Kerr, Emmett Crowe, Walter 
O'Meara, Bob Saggau, Joe De Franco, 
John Gubanich, Alan Mooney, Ben 
Sheridan, Joe Bechtold and Ed 
Longhi. Richard Ames, with an aver­
age of 92.25 for four semesters, has 
the highest average on the entire 
football squad. 
rjR. E. G. MAHIN, head of the 
• ^ Department of Metallurgy, in' a recent report before the national con­vention of the American Society for Metals, revealed what is believed to be a new method for determining the absolute hardness of a metal. Dr. Mahin's report told of the results of experiments he has been conducting at Notre Dame in conjunction with George Foss, '35, graduate assistant in metallurgy. 
In the paper Dr. Mahin defined "absolute hardness" as "the maximum unit stress which a material will sup­port without permanent indentation." The discussion in the paper dealt pri­marily with the indentation, or pene­tration, hardness of metals or alloys and the method of direct measurement employed in the Notre Dame tests. 
rpHE NAMES OF ELEVEN MEN 
•^
 from Notre Dame are included in the 1938-39 issue of Who's Who in America, recently released. They are: Rev. James A. Bums, C.S.C, Rev. 

J.
 Leonard Carrico, C.S.C, Rev. Thomas Crumley, C.S.C, Rev. Wil­liam P. Cunningham, C.S.C, Thomas F, Konop, Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C:, Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. Rev. Matthew A. Schumacher, C.S.C, Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, Rev. Francis J. Wenninger, C.S.C, and William L. Benitz. 


46 The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1938 

SPOTLIGHT ALUMNI » » 
TT'EENE FITZPATRICK, ex. '14, 
•'^ San Francisco, is this year in that enviable position where he can (as this is written) cheer as an alumnus for two of the country's un-
Boye Photo 
KEENE FITZPATKICK 
defeated and untied football teams, Santa Clara and Notre Dame. 

Keene came from Chicago to Notre Dame in 1910 to take law. While he was here he participated in football and track, playing substitute right end while Knute Eockne.was playing substitute left end. But the storied California climate was too much for Keene and when, in 1912, he got a real taste of it, he decided to finish his law at Santa Clara. He returned to Chicago in 1916 to marry Marian Mehlem, and remained there for 10 years with the Chicago Tribu7ie, New York American and the Capper publi­cations, with the exception of time out during the World War for special ser­vice in the Intelligence Department. 
In 1926 Keene was appointed Pa­cific Coast manager for Liberty Mag­azine, with headquarters in San Francisco, and he is now Pacific Coast representative for the Chicago Tribune, New York News and Phila­delphia Inquirer, managing the ad­vertising and merchandising for these papers in 11 western states. He is a member of the Olympic Club and Stanford Golf and Country Club and, with his wife and two daughters, re­sides in Palo Alto. His hobbies, he says, are "golf, football, family, No­tre Dame and Santa Clara." 
Keene was president of the San Francisco Newspaper Publishers As­sociation and of the Notre Dame Club of Northern California. He is the organizer and captain of the Bockne Memorial Retreat which is conducted by the Jesuits of EI Retire San Ignacio at LJOS Altos, California, each year. This Retreat is attended by Notre Dame men from Reno, Nevada, to Santa Barbara, California, and covers a period of three and a half days, including, March 31, the anni­versary of Rock's death. 
"DROTHER LAWRENCE JOSEPH, 
• ^ F.S.C., A.M., '25, now treasurer and teacher of mathematics in St. Patrick's Academy, Chicago, has been for many years one of the leading teachers and executives in one of the Catholic Church's foremost teaching organizations, the Christian Brothers. 
While he was director of De La Salle High school, Joliet, Illinois, from 1925 to 1929, JBrother La-ivrence Joseph was one of the most active members of the Joliet Notre Dame Club. His removal to Christian Broth­ers High School, St. Joseph, Missouri, in 1930 severed that connection, but Brother has retained all his interest in Notre Dame. He recalls Father William A. Bolger, C.S.C. and Pro­fessor David A. Weir as his favorite teachers on the campus. 
Brother took his vows in the Chris­tian Brothers in 1902 and has been 
BROTHEB LAWRENCE JOSEPH, P.S.C. 
a high school educator continuously for 36 years. He had attended Ar­mour Institute in Chicago and the University of Minnesota before re­ceiving his master's degree here. 
•pRANCIS X. ACKERMANN, M.S., •*• '04, has retired after 51 years of teaching service for Notre Dame and -Notre Dame men. The Professor re­mains, happily, a familiar campus 
PROFESSOR F . X. ACKERMANN 
figure, however, since he still resides in the Main Building, as he has dur­ing all the 51 years, and he still occupies room 321, as he has for the past 36 years. 
Professor Ackermann had a Notre Dame background of distinction even before he came to the campus. His uncle had taught in the Art Depart­ment in 1856 and, when the Main Building was destroyed by fire in 1879, Father WilUam Corby, then president, commissioned that uncle to decorate the interior of the new building. The Professor's father, also an artist, came along to help with the work. 
Through these associations it was natural that the young Frank Acker­mann should come to Notre Dame from Lafayette, Indiana, in 1887 aft­er he attended Purdue. Even while he was a student at Notre Dame he was also an instructor in free-hand draw­ing. He became eventually head of the Department of Mechanical Draw­ing and retained that position through long years of remarkable accomplishment until his retirement this year. Until a few years ago he inscribed the names on all Notre Dame diplomas. 
A salute to the Professor for his enduring and fruitful service! 

BY JOSEPH S. PETRITZ. '32 
« Director of Athletic Publicity 



ATHLETICS 
ATHLETIC EDITOR, THIS ISSUE: BILL OTOOLE. *39 
When Coach Elmer Layden and his crops of assistants are at a loss to account for the unexpectedly fine showing of the Irish gridders thus far this season, it hardly seems our place to advance our own conjectures on just why the Fighting Irish have man­aged to win their first four games of the current campaign. Brilliant as that record appears at first sight, it should be borne well in mind that in at least two of these battles, the Georgia Tech and Carnegie Tech frays, Notre Dame scared the life out of the coaching staff before winning. 
Against Kansas the Irish had all the earmarks of a great football team, scoring in every quarter at least once and piling up eight touchdowns and four extra points to the hapless Jay­hawker's zero. Eighty - two Notre Dame players saw action in this game. Layden substituted 11 men at a time until only four or five players re­mained on the bench. Seven full teams had already seen action and, irith but a few seconds remaining, Elmer waved the remaining few on to the field. 
To Mario Tonelli, who scored the final touchdown of the 1937 season against Southern California, went the honor of touching off the 1938 fire­works. On a sweep around his own 
HALFBACK HARRY STEVENSOX 

right end, Tonelli scored standing up from the six-yard line after only four minutes of play. Ben Sheridan swept the same end for 36 yards and a second score in the second period, and Ed Simonich made it three with an 11-yard buck just before the half ended. Hofer and Stevenson had 
GUARD AUGIE BOSSU 

added extra points from placement and the Irish left the field with a 20­0 lead at the half. 
Lou Zontini ran his left end for a 27-yard touchdown jaunt as the third period started, and Harry Stevenson tossed a 45-yard pass to Earl Brown, who made a circus catch exactly on the goal line. Shortly after Ben Sher­idan added his second touchdown of the afternoon on an individual foray through the Kansas line, and Bob Saggau, who had dropkicked one extra point, loped 51 yards around right end for the seventh touchdown of the day. Milt Piepul, at that time fifth string fullback, but now a start­er, bucked for the final count of the day. 
That Kansas was unusually weak, despite its 19-18 ^^ctory over Texas the previous week, %vas attested when the Irish visited Atlanta to do battle with Georgia Tech for the first time in a decade. Notre Dame won the ball game, but most of the glorj' went to the Ramblin' Wrecks. The Irish were aided by a couple of fortunate breaks, when Tech, after marching 88 yards in the final quarter, fumbled on first down on the Notre Dame two-yard line, where Johnny Kelly, Irish right end, recovered. Another break, this in the first quarter, led to the first score. Zontini intercepted a Tech pass on his own 42 and raced back to Tech's 42. 
Tonelli, straining to make up for an earlier bobble, cracked center for 22 yards and a first down on the 18. Then Notre Dame got one of the day's major breaks when Gibson inter­cepted Stevenson's pass on the three-yard line, but the play was recalled and Tech penalized for offside. To­nelli raced around end for the first touchdown and Harry Stevenson kicked the extra point. 
A blocked punt in the fourth quar­ter by John Gubanich, second string right guard, led to the second Notre Dame touchdown. Milt Kepul crash­ing over from the one-yard line, after Benny Sheridan had been run out of bounds just inches short of the double stripe. In the meantime Tech had struck back at the Irish in a series of well-executed reverses and had scored just 12 plays after the initial Irish counter. "The kick for extra point was low, so that the teams left the field at the half with the Irish holding a one point edge. 
On October 15 Coach Bob Zuppke's Fighting Illini visited Notre Dame for the first time and went back to Cham­paign on the short end of a 14-6 score. This game was replete with thrills in which Notre Dame football shone to its best advantage. Although the Irish scored only twice, both touchdowns were of the spectacular variety. The first came just four minutes after the Wckoff when Harry Stevenson tossed a 55-yard pass to Left End Earl Brown, who made a Hollywood catch of the ball deep in the end zone as 45,000 throats cried. 
FmxBACK JOE THESING 

"Touchdown!" Stevenson placekicked the extra point. 
In the third quarter Benny Sheri­dan gathered in an Illinois punt on his own 32 and with the finest exhibi­tion of broken field running seen for a long time in the new stadium, raced 68 yards down the right sideline to 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1938 
the second Irish touchdown of the game. Ben was aided by beautiful blocking on this run by Augie Bossu and liOU Zontini, right guard and right halfback respectively. But Illi­nois was far from through. The score served only to increase the ferocity of their attacks. When the Irish rose in their might to stop the touchdown thrust of the visitors on the Notre Dame 15-yard line, the Fighting Dlini broke through to block Stevenson's punt on the one-yard line, from where they scored a moment later. Tad Harvey, 212-pound second-string right tackle, made it even up for the Irish when he rushed through to block the attempted conversion. 
Coach Bob Zuppke of Illinois summed up the battle by declaring, "The difference was in the backs. Notre Dame backs are big and fast; ours are big and slow. The lines were about equal. But, you know, we don't get that kind of tackling practice down at Illinois the way you do up here when Sheridan carries the ball, because we haven't, that kind of run­ner on the lot. Everyone of us had our hands on him at one time or other on that touchdown run of his, but we couldn't hold him. You can't tackle a ghost .. . I know; I had one once. His name was Grange," 
A typicallj'- tough Carnegie Tech outfit battled the Irish to better than a standstill for more than three quar­ters of a hotly contested game in which two fine lines allowed only slight gains by the rival backs. Notre Dame's attack had made only one first down during the first 50 minutes of play, that on an 11-yard sweep around right end by Bob Saggau as the first half ended, but the Irish got a break in the last quarter when Priedlander, Tech quarterback, gam­bled on a running play on fourth down with a yard to go in midfield. The Irish line stopped the play cold and took the ball on Carnegie's 47. And here the Notre Dame attack, which had netted but nine yards through the entire third quarter, really went to town. Sheridan was stopped at tackle for no gain. Kepul cracked center for 19 yards and a first down on the Pittsburghers' 28. Sitko sent Sheridan through the cen­
ter of the line and he side-stepped his 
way to the 15-yard line where he 
fumbled as he was hit from behind. Right End Johnny O'Brien recovered for the Irish on the Tech seven-yard stripe. With the stands screaming for a touchdown score, Sheridan again started out as if to slash off tackle, but handed the ball to Left End Bill Kerr on an end-around play, and the Irish wingman went over standing up in the far comer of the field. Joe DeFranco eliminated the only Tech tackier in sight, and Paul Morrison, second string right halfback, place­kicked the extra point. 
In view of all the newspaper pub­
licity given the mistake committed by Referee Getchell in telling Quarter­back Friedlander that it was third in­stead of fourth do^vn, we should like to state that Friedlander and the Carnegie team admitted knowing that was was fourth dow n and that Getchell was wrong. This admission was made Saturday night after the game in a downtown newspaper office before witnesses. Both scoreboards showed fourth down, as did the head linesman's marker. One point that has generally been overlooked is that it is not the referee's business to keep track of the downs, but the head linesman's. When Friedlander asked Getchell the number of the down, Friedlander consulted the wrong of­ficial. To insist that the play be re­ran was the same as penalizing Notre Dame by giving the Tartans five downs. This was what the Carnegie delegation proposed and which Getchell refused to allow, although he admitted his mistake in saying it had been third down. That the Irish scored four plays later from 47 yards out was only coincidence. Tech had twice been stopped inside the Irish 30-yard line, once on the Notre Dame 16 and again on the 26. 
In reviewing the game to date we must point out that the Irish have been the recipients of several fortu­nate breaks of the game, but there is nothing in that to their discredit. Rockne always insisted that a good team made its o^-n breaks and that not even his best teams would have been undefeated without a little lack along the route. The punting of the team is decidedly better than it has been since 1935, the passing is at least as good as it has been, and the running game is definitely better, with Coach Layden using a multitude of fine ball carriers, any one of whom is likely to break jail in the midst of a hard fought ball game. What they can do from here in, as the schedule becomes increasingly tough, is highly problematical. The Irish are a green team and a green team is bound to make mistakes, which may cause the loss of a game. We refuse to predict the outcome on the next five games agains t Array, Navy, Kinnesota, 
Northwestern, and Southern Califor­nia. We may lose them all or—^we may not. 

TO KNUTE ROCKNE 
BY ESTELLB BROOKS 

(The foUowins quatrain, by a high school student, is taken from The Hollow Reed, a book on creative writinK for high school po­etry lovers, by Mary J. J. Wrinn.) 
Another reason why you have not died: You are so resolute, so lacking fear, That Death in his great house has frowned and said, "Come, come! You can't stay here!" 
Basket Schedule 

Announced 
New Vork U. To Play on Campus. 

New York University will make its first basketball appearance at Notre Dame during the coming season, con­cluding a 22 - game schedule an­nounced by Director of Athletics Elmer P. Layden. The Fighting Irish will also play N. Y, U. at Madison Square Garden. 
The 1938-39 season will reestab­lish Notre Dame's relationship \vith Michigan in basketball. The two teams have met during the past year in baseball, track, golf, and tennis. The first game of the Wolverine series will be played at Notre Dame December 15. 
The appearance of Cornell at Notre Dame January 2 is another highlight of one of the most attractive home schedules ever made for the Irish. Twelve of the 22 games will be played at Notre Dame, with the other 10 away. Such traditional opponents as Northwestern, Butler, Kentucky, Minnesota, Illinois, Marquette, and Detroit appear on the card. 
Coach George Keogan has lost about three-fifths of his 1937-38 squad, but he predicts another good season. "Our prospects are all right," he said. "We shall not have a great teain like we had last year when we won 20 out of 23 games, but it will be a good team." Principal losses were Paul Nowak and Johnny Moir, all - American center and forward; Tommy Wukovits, No. 1 guard; and Captain Ray Meyer, forward. 
The schedule follows: 

Dec 1—Kalamazoo at Notre Dame. Dec 3—Ball State at Notre Dame. Dec 6—Home game, tentative. Dec 10—^Wifconsin at Madison. Dec 15—^Michigan at Notre Dame Dec 22—Northwest'n at Notre Dame Dec 31—^Northwestern at Evanston Jan. 2—Cornell U. at Notre Dame Jan. 7—Butler at Notre Dame Jan. 14—Kentucky at Louisville Jan. 16—^W. Reserve at Notre Dame Jan. 21—Caniiius at Buffalo Jan. 23—John Carroll at Cleveland Jan. 28—Minnesota at Notre Dame Feb. 3—Illinois at Notre Dame Feb. 11—N. Y. U. at New York Feb. 13—Syracuse at Syracuse Feb. 18—Marquette at Notre Dame Feb. 25—Marquette at Milwaukee March 1—Butler at Indianapolis March 7—^Detroit U. at Detroit March 12—N. Y. U. at Notre Dame 
November, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
NOTRE DAME ARCHITEQS 
(Continued from Pa ^ 40} 

city the Congregation of Holy Cross was first founded. In the Lady Chapel of the church is a baroque altar at­tributed to Bernini, and in the tower is a carillon, which is one of the vei-y oldest in the United States. The fabric of the church has remained unaltered, except for the addition of the Memorial Porch in 1922, in mem­ory of the Notre Dame men who died in the World War. This porch was designed by Francis W. Kervick and Vincent F. Fagan, of the Department of Architecture at Notre Dame. The memorial tablets were modelled by Ernest T. Thompson, at one time pro­fessor of art at the University. The interior ceiling, also done by Thomp­son, bears the insignia of the various divisions of the United States Army. The lighting ii.xture is fashioned from the helmet worn by Father Charles L. O'Donnell while sei-ving as chaplain on the battlefront in Europe. At this door of the church is cele­brated on each Memorial Day a field Mass for all the dead of the wars in which Notre Dame men have had part. 
Gymnasium Architecture 

At the east side of the campus is the gymnasium, the first part of which was designed by Charles Brehmer, an architect of South Bend. Some years ago a large addition, which nearly doubled the size of the building, was made by W. Gibbons Uffendell, of Chicago, a former stu­dent in the Department of Archi­tecture. 
Early in the history of Notre Dame courses in art wei-e given, and short­ly after the Civil War, Eliza Allen Starr was lecturer on art, coming to Notre Dame each season from Chica­go, where she conducted a school of art. With the coming of Luigi Gregori regular classes in painting were begun and have been continued to the present day. It was in 1898 that the first formal instruction in architecture was offered, by Mr. Henry Schlacks, a Chicago architect, who came to Notre Dame every week to supervise the work of a group of students interested in architecture. In the intervals behveen the visits of Mr. Schlacks the work was directed by Professor Francis X. Ackermann, head of the Department of Mechani­cal Dra\\'ing. As the Department of Architecture developed, the quarters for it were e.xpanded, until half of the top fioor of the main building was used by the department. When in 1930 the new building for the College of Law was completed, the old law building was given over to the Department of Architecture. Originally a hall for the Department of Chemistry, the building had been remodelled for the law school by 
Brother Columbkille. It is a simple oblong structure, but it is often pointed out by visiting architects as one of the most satisfying buildings on the campus. 
Library Is Built 

In 1917, the seventy-fifth anniver­sary of the founding of Notre Dame, a new building for the libi-ary of the Univei-sity and one for the Depart­ment of Chemistry were erected, in accordance with designs by Boring and Tilton, of New York City. The building for chemistry is purely a utilitarian fireproof structure of brick. The libraiy building is of Bedford stone and is the only example of Renaissance fox-ms at Notre Dame. It was the fii'St departure from the original plan of keeping all the aca­demic buildings on one side of the campus. Though the wisdom of this change is still questioned, by some, the building has served well its pur­pose for the library and the art gal­lery. The high basement and first floor are devoted to libi-ary uses, and the second floor, originally planned for seminars and special collections, is now filled with art treasures accumulated since the foundation of the University. Here the student may view fine tapestries and paintings of all schools, original drawings, and Italian wood carvings. 
Since the construction of the li­braiy building many others have been added to the University group. In the course of time the old kitchen and the dining rooms became altogether inad­equate for the number of persons that had to be served, and conse­quently a new building, designed by Cram and Ferguson, of Boston, as architects and Kervick and Pagan as associate architects, was erected. The walls are of red brick, trimmed with Indiana limestone.. In this building dining space is provided for twenty-five hundred persons at one time, in Uvo large halls and two smaller dining rooms. In the rear of the building are the kitchen and the bakery, and in the basement are the preparation rooms and rooms for storage. Through more than ten years the building has proved its efficiency by serving expeditiously more than 10,000 meals a day. 
In the Twenties also came the con­struction of a new quadrangle at the west side of the campus. Howard, Morrissey, and Lyons Halls, as build­ings for residence of students, were designed by Kervick and Fagan and were carried out in the usual yellow brick and a minimum of stone, in order that there might be no clash between these buildings and the rest of the University. 
Several of the buildings erected since 1930 have been placed on a new campus, to the south of the old one. The newest developments of the cam­pus, is sometimes called a plaza, but 

is in effect a spacious mall extending east and west. The place has been planted with elm trees, and it is hoped that as these develop, this part of the campus will be characterized by that sequestered peace one feels on the common of an early American village—rather than by the confusion of a sun-baked market place which the term 'plaza' connotes. The old campus, for several decades, tmder the charge of Brother Philip, was laid out when the influence of the Central Park in New York City, with its naturalistic style of gardening, was much in vogue. Winding drives and a great variety of trees were features of most college campuses of that per­iod, regardless of the contours of ground. On the slopes of the Notre Dame campus and around the Grot­to of Our Lady of Lourdes, near the church. Brother Philip developed a setting that is a good justification of the style, and the result is very 
pleasing. 
South Side Developed 

At the south side of the large open space is the new College of Law, designed by Maginnis and Walsh, of Boston. This building is a return to the earlier light-colored brick, greatly enriched with limestone trimming. The new College of Commerce, do­nated to the University by Edward 
N. Hurley, of Chicago, and designed by Graham, Anderson, Probst, and White, of Chicago, was constructed in 1931. In its Gothic motives, this struc­ture continues the style of the Uni­versity dining hall, and it is specially distinguished by its interesting en­trance hall, which extends the full height of the building and has as a central feature a revolving globe showing the principal trade routes of the world and panels on which are painted maps of the seven seas. Di­rectly across the mall from the Col­lege of Commerce is the new engi­neering building, a gift of John F. Gushing, '06, by Francis W." Kervick, architect. This building provides the classrooms, drawing rooms, auditori­um, library, and laboratories required by the various departments of the College of Engineering. 
On the ample grounds to the north and east of the Main Building of the University is being constructed a new group of buildings, the work of Ma­ginnis and Walsh, who have designed most of the buildings constructed since 1931. . 
In this section of the campus is also found the large heating plant built to care for the expansion of the University of which Albert Eahn of Detroit was the architect. 
This summary account of the ar­chitecture at Notre Dame shows that whilst the buildings at Notre Dame represent the work of a niunber of architects, there have been few di­vergencies in style or material. 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
»

ALUMNI CLUBS 
TAe 7938-7939 Alumni Board 
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C.S.C, '03, Notre Dame, Ind.. JrlonoTory President Ambrose A, O'Qjnnell, '07, Washington, D.C. \^resident Joseph B. McGlynn, '12, East S t Louis, Illinois "rrst Vice-President James M. Phelan, '17, Seattle, Washington-Second Vice-President James E. Armstrong, '25, Notre Dame, Indiana-Secretary-Treasurer William R. Dooley, '26, Notre Dame, Indiana ssistant Secretary Don P. O'Keefci '03, Detroit, Michigan-Director to 1939 Joseph M. Byrne, Jr., '15, Newark, New Jersey-Director to 1940 Francis H. McKeever, '03, Qiicago, Illinois;. Jiirector to 1941 Edward F. O'Toole, '25, Chicago, Illinois.. -Director to 1942 John C. 0'G)tmor, '38, Indianapolis, Indiana-Special Director to 1939 
William B. Cotter, '13, New York Oxy 
AKRON 
Hnrt Colopy. '31, K.F.D. 4, President; John Doran, •33, 6S E. lUU Street, Secretary. 

ARKANSAS 
Bart XM. Roberts, 132S Lincoln Ave., Uttle Rock. Arlc, Secretary. 

BENGAL 
Rt. RUT. Timothy Crowley, aS.a , '02, Dacca, Beniral, India, President; Rer. J. J. Hennesicy, CS.C, '02, Dacca, Bencal, India, Secretary. 

BERRIEN COUNTY (Michigan) 
William R. Descnbcrs^. *31. Buchanan Bank Building:., Buchanan, Midii^an, P resident; Maurice A. Weber, ex. *25, Peoples State Bank Buildins^, St. Joseph, Michigan, Secre­tary. 

Bill OcscnberfT was elected president o£ the Berrien County Club at the dinner, on Octo­ber 20. at the Quin Waters' farm near Niles, Bill Madden was elected vice-president, and Maurice Weber, secretary and treasurer. The assistant alumni secretary was present to help the club make a respcctublc showing in the attack on an excellent chicken menu. 
Plans were made at the meetintr for the cluVs participation in the Rocknc Memorial campaign and for a definite assistance to the Alumni Association in its organizing: of a Placement Bureau. 
Retirins president Tom Grimes conducted the meeting and easily led the members in the chicken destruction and bone-piling. 
BUFFALO 
Carlos H. Frank, '33. 232 Barton Street, President; Ralph F. Else, '34, 278 Voorhees Avenue, Secretary. 

BOSTON 
Fred a Solari, '3S, Center St., Pembroke, Mass,, President; John J. Hanley. *34, 409 Salem St., Medford, Mass., Secretary; Paul SIcManos, '34, Fox & Hoands Club, Boston, Mass., Secretary. 

It grieves • me to have to report that the vdid activity of last season's three strenuous meetings was a little too much for the deli­cate constitution of the Boston Club. 
There has been a relapse. At present it is resting comfortably in an orcygen tent, and the only danger is that some one will excite ^e patient by suggesting a meeting. Such a suggestion, so imtirely out of keeping with 
-Ex-Officio Director to 1939 

our splendid and tranquil traditions could only prove fatal. 
So if you'll just lean your head this way, please, and cup your ear, I'll whisper a few items that the undertaker (who is waiting outside) just handed me. 
Joe Glcnnon, '34. is back in town. After spending four years at N.D. learning to write tiny figures on yellow sheets the size of a paving block, he graduated in triumph, and got a job selling alcohol in Tcrre Haute. After a couple of years he mox*ed to the more' alcohol-conscious center of New Jersey, and now he's back in Boston, living in Dedham with his wife, the lovely and charming Kath. (Keep an extra place set. Kath, I'm on my way). 
Met Ed CuUcn the other night. He is con­nected with F. A. Dowd. consulting engineers. He tells me that his cousin WalHe Shecban has left that brewery up in JjovrelU and is now in the retail liquor business with his father. 
In the field of more fragrant fluids, Jim Bowdrcn is our foremost standard-bearer. He is a perfume peddler, and is reputed to be making outrageous profits. Frank ReiDy dropped in the other day. He is teaching here 
16th Annual 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
April 17 
MoJire /our plans now 
November, 1938 
» » 
in Boston. Joe Condon and Harr>- Rockett likewise were in a week or so ago. Joe is in New York, with the legal department of the World's Fair, and Harry. I believe, has a pri­vate practice. 
Frank Matthys. on a tour of the East, paid a brief visit a few weeks ago. He's in the Hammond, Indiana, office of some insurance company, and is empowered to settle claims and even sign checks. This is evidence of success u-hich cannot be lightly passed over. 
Was down to Joe Gargan'a law offices the 

other day, and was surprised to see Art Hughes leaving just as I was going in. Joe informed me that they are both working on a case for a local bonding company. 
' I haven't seen Fred Solari since last spring, but Back Hanley (working with the N.YJV.) informs me that Fred's sister died during the summer, and we extend our sincere sympathies to Fred. 
Paul SIfrManus. 

CALUMET DISTRICT (Ind.-III.) 
Ambrose BIcGinnis, *24. 422 South **E" St., Crown Point, Ind., President; Fred J. Sol-man. Jr„ '28, 5752 Erie Ave.. Hammond, Ind., Secretary. 

CAPITAL DISTRICT (New York) John Ijind, *34. 4 Hcdgewood Ave., Schen­ectady, President; Michael Leding, '33. 1047 Gillespie St., Schenectady, Secretary. 
Many plans are being formulated in the Ccpital District these days. If the boys try half as hard to attend the affairs as President Jack Land tries to make them worthwhile, they will be undisputed successes. 
Football is naturally the main topic of dis­cussion. The three high schools in the Rockne league arc in the midst of their battle for the trophy. Eddie Eckert has the trophy of the last year due to a three-way tie. This pro­duced a complicated situation when Jack Land and Mike Leding from Schenectady, vrent to Troy for a publicity picture with representa­tives of the three contesting schools and the diocesan director of athletics. Arrangements had been made to use an old trophy, but the boys forgot to bring it. Since the Trojan school has not yet won a trophy, a hurried trip had to he made to Albany to obtain the trophy. Dan Cunha and Nick Tancrcdi. the coaches of Vincentian Institute in Albany, are gunning for the award this year. 
The Wolferts Roost Country Club in Albany has again been selected for the setting of our attractive Christmas dance. The date is De­cember 27. As Clare Touhey would say. "The committee is going over a list of bands," 
Tom Dollard is still the busiest man in the Capital District. The present club officers thought he might ease up on local ideas after having been made District Governor. We have decided that he can't sleep nights and has vowed to keep others awake also. He must stay awake nights thinking up schemes, and then the schemes are so good, the officers stay out all night trying to contact people to put them into effect. More power to you. Tom. 
Blike Leding. 

CENTRAL MICHIGAN 
Dr. E. J. Hermes, *16. 1910 Oakland St., Lansinir. President; J. Hanrey Ganthier. '30. Baric River, Blich., Secretary. 

November. 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY Anthonr V. Ceres. '28, Perth Ambor Nat'L Bank Bldffv Perth Ambor* President; John Lisicki, '31, 215 Water Street, Perth Ambor, Secretary, 
CENTRAL OHIO Harrr Nester, '20, 8 E. Broad Street. Co­lambas. President; John S. Loder, ex. '25, Union Clothinff Co., Columbus, Secretary-
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA WlUiam J. McAleer. '31, 1518 19tii Arenue, Altoona. Pa.. President; Edward F. Lee, '31. 210 13th Street, Altoona. Pa.. Secre­tary. 
CHICAGO Francis T. McCurrie, '27. 8219 S. SanEamon St.. President; Edwin Leo Ryan, '27, 111 
W. WashiuKton Blvd., Secretary-
The Notre Dame Club of Chicago has dele­gated to Rockwell P. Clancy Company, the issuance of a new directory o£ all Notre Dame men in this area. The directory is dedicated to Knutc K. Roekne. We believe that it is very fitting that this should be done at the present time because during this year there will be completed at the University, a most appropriate memorial that needs our full SUJK port financially. It seems to me that a great many who are qualified to be listed ore not at present on our mailing list. If there is any* one who has not received a card to fill in with 

. the requested information, please get in touch with me. 
A formal dance will be held at the Stevens Hotel on the night of the Northwestern game, November 19, at nine o'clock. John F, Clark. *35, has been appointed as chairman of the dance. John, with the benefit of past experi­ence to go upon, has decided not to serve a dinner or supper, but to have a good orches­tra, Charles Gaylord's, and entertainment. The club wishes to take this op[>ortunity to invite all the alumni and their friends to an eve­ning of relaxation and good fellowship. John says all will have an evening of fun. 
The weekly luncheons are held at Eitels' Yankee Grill in the field Building. Clark and Adams Streets. If you haven't been able to 
. see the game the previous Saturday, come Tuesday and hear all about it from an eye­witness. 
Georgre Braatig^am came to a meeting of the directors and officers of the club with 400 feet of colored film taken in Canada during a re­cent hunting and fishing trip. The country was beautiful and the pictures very interest­ing—we all wished we had been with him. From some of the trophies shown we realized w*hy he hadn't lost any weight on the trip. 
If every member would give some thought to aiding fellow members find employment, much could be done. Whenever an opening comes to the attention of anyone, please call Ed Gould, chairman of the committee, or my­self. At present there are a large number of recent graduates who would welcome the chance of a job. Up to the present time there has been very little help from most of the members. Let's sec what can be done in the near future to assist these younger men. 
The club etxcnds its sympathy to Joseph ^funizzo, who lost his father. Harry P. Mc-Keown is now with the State of Illinois; Ed­mund Britz is doing a good job with the HOLC; William J. McCarthy is to be mar­ried in November; Jerome P. Holland is kept so busy by the Federal Housing that he has no time to see anybody these days: Francis Mc-Greal has left the Chicago'rntle & Trust Com­pany to enter private practice: Ed Feehery has been kept busy on the Board of Trade. Word reached me that Frank Denney is in Seattle. Washington, and that Carl Cronin is in Calgary: Leon T. Rej-nicrs is conducting a research and manufacturing business of scien­tific instmments. while James Arthur Rey­niers is kept busy at the University in the Biology Department; John P. Lynch said the Ford market isn't what it should be. 
Edwin L. Ryan. 
Fran Oclerich Supplement: 
I'm a hell of a scribe, due, I hasten to alibi, to the fact that my job as a salesman of Old Manse Syrup keeps me away from the home town quite a bit. and as a consequence I do not see as many of the local clan as I should. Which is probably just as well as every Notre Dame man in Oucago ia a sales­man, too, and you know what hapi>ens when too many of those things get together. 
Among the salesmen I have run.across lately is Ed Meldtione, who sells his time as a law­yer, and Ed has just resigned from a topnotch law firm for a. position with the Securities Exchange Commission. Whether or not this will have any effect on Ed's handball games with John I>oix*n, who is the same land of salesman, I don't know. 
Ed Gould, who sells you guess what, lias re­cently made definite progress toward better­ing himself by moving from Irving Park Boul­evard into my parish — that is. mine and Father McCarthy's — in West Rogers Park. Anyway, Father McCarthy and I are happy to have Ed with us. He will take a lot of the burden for telling Irish stories off the shoul­ders of Gabby Hartnett. 
Was out in River Forest having a" visit with Teny Dillon and Fred Snite the other eve­ning, and who should be there but our old rector from St. Ed's, Father Clancy. I used to be scared to death of him. but Thursday night I laughed and laughed, because I knew that my wife is the only one who can "cam­pus" me now! 
Dick Oelerich, Bill Drcnnan, Ned KeUey and BUI Bnrghart went to the HUnois game together. For farther particulars and gory details of this four man rat race, suggest yon contact At McGann or Roy SmiA at South Bend. 
Was up in Minneapolis a few weeks aso, and 'While planning to spend an evening with Father Joe Gibbs, and his brother Ed (Ed was one of the last of Notre Dame's hockey stars), I found out that BtUton Fox, who acta both as salesman and consumer for his fam­ily's brewery, was already at Gtbbif house. I went anyway, but let **Ham" know that when a fellow leaves Chicago to get away from a guy. he hates to be followed all the way to St. Paul. That's about all I can give you. Ed. except that Jack Gcddea, now with the Pure Oil Company in New Jersey, flew in to town last week for a one right stand with the old South,Shore gang. Jack, you will re­member, lived off campus at Mrs. Nick's. That is, he did when he could make Herb Giorgi* and your scribe shove over I 
Beat Minnesota I 
CINCINNATI JoMph S. Horriney. '28. 317 Tascalnm, President: Baymond J. Fellnaii. ex. *S4, 3303 Eastaide Ave., Secretary. 
An enthusiastic crowd was on band. Sun­day morning, October 9, to greet the football team as they came through Cindnnat! on their way back from their victory over Geor^a Tech. The squad stopiKd over in oar city long enough to attend Mass and receive Com­munion at St. Peter in Chains. Msgr. O'Hnra said the Blass. The church was filled with Notre Dame admirers. 
The local Notre Dame Club was represented by a committee of delegates appointed by President Joseph Morrisaey. The committee was composed of Mr. Morrissey, Leo Dobois, Lawrence Janszen, Norbert Gnctle, George Ang and Ray Pellman. 
Iflany of Joe Thcstnc'a friends were on hand to see him rejoin the team. Joe. laid np with a broken nose, stopped oS in Cincinnati while the rest of the team went on to Georgia and then met them on their retnm. 
Congratulations to Norbert Gnetle. Miss Ann Cavanaugh became his bride on October 12 at Holy Family Ghurctu Mr. and Mrs. Guetle enjoyed a wedding trip in the South, and were to be home in their new residence after November 1. 

Notre Dame footbaU tradition is carried on in the Capital District Club. Attentively icatching President John B. Land, 'XJ, present the club's Roekne trophy to Rev. John Bourke, athletic director of the Albany diocese arCt left to right: Brother John, F.S.C., athletie director of Chris­tian Brothers' Aead^y; Brother Edtcard, FS.C, athictic director of LaSaUe, Troy: John 
B. Land; Rev. John Bourke; Daniel Cunha, '5S, coach of Vincentian iTistitute, Albany; Michael Leding, 'SS, secretary of the club. This trophy ioUl, at the end of the football season, be pre­sented to the winning football team at an annual dinner. 
Frank Sweeney returned rccentlj- from an extended tour of the Southwest where he vis­ited Father Paul Foik, former librarian at Notre Dame. Father Foik is located at St. Edward's College, Austin, Texas. 
Matt Themes was recently appointed foot­ball coach at Roger Bacon High School, St. Bernard, Ohio. Roger Bacon is one of the Catholic high schools of the Cincinnati arch­diocese, and ranks very high in local football competition. Sports commentators pick them to take the championship of the Greater Cin­cinnati high school league. 
Bob HuRhcs is convalescing at his home from a severe attack of pneumonia, Ray Pellman. 
CLEVELAND 
Karl E. Marlcrstcck, '29, Williamson BIdg.. President; G. Albert Lawton, '33, 2097 Wyandotte Ave., Lakewood, Sccretarj*. 

Undoubtedly the most newsworthy item we have this month is the rally, held on Satur­day afternoon, the 15th, at Leisy's Rathskel­lar. Almost 300 people (almost 301 including the harried barkeep) filled Leisy*s catacombs with smoke, song and shouting. Nearly 1,000 tickets had been sold and interest in the draw­ing with the Army game trip as prize ran high. The prizewinners (Charles Andexler of S904 Fuller Avenue, Cleveland, and Miss Jes­sie Duncan of 1623 East "5th Street, Cleve­land) both elected to take the $100.00 in cash rather than the tickets and transportation to the game. Mr. Andexler's ticket was sold by Clayt Lcroux's business associate, Bingham Zellmer, and Miss Duncan's ticket was pur­chased of Cy Neff. Mike Crawford sold the first five books of tickets; Mike also sold the greatest number of tickets, Billy Ryan and Jim Uprichard affording him close competition. The rally was unusually successful financially; proceeds are to be used for the Scholarship Fund, which, incidentally, is to be adminis­tered by a definite, standing committee. The final accounting on the rally ticket sale is to be made before the next meeting. Suffice it to say that any who doubted the eflicacy of a rally and sale of chances (your correspondent included) as a means of discoura^ng public hoarding were thoroughly convinced of their error. 
The mystery of the month is Jack Raincy's disappearance. Jack suddenly appeared on the scene of local activity last May and as sudden­ly disappeared this fall. No one knows where he has gone, including his former employer. 
A committee is considering a dinner meet­ing for sometime around the 10th of Novem­ber instead of the customary luncheon meet­ing: as yet plans are a little nebulous, but more later. We have heard some interesting sidelights (candlelight and the like) on the forthcoming Christmas Dance of which Jack Flynn is to be general chairman. Ralph Hul­ler is in charge of reservations; Art Becvar, invitations: Robert Hackman, student reserva­tions; Thomas F. Byrne and John Reidy, ar­rangements ; Nick Raffing, publicity; and Dick Prezcbel, music Dick's work on the Music Committee has required a great deal of scout­ing about such spots as The Red Raven and Fenway Hall, accompanied, of course, by that master of night-club espionage, E. D, Rad­datz, Esq. (He has acquired the Esq. since the Shaker Heights primaries, the ward heeler!) 
Our sympathies to Pat Canny on the death of his mother. Tony Anzlorar (Sudetan) is haberdashing at Higbee's. 'We saw George Brown for the first time in three years at the Rally. The Rally brought out the bond frater­nity en masse: Johnny Chapla, John and Bill 

The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Dorc, Todd Sielic and Mark Price. (The only one we saw was John Dore, but we were lold about the others by one of our very best men). Tom (not Telephone Company, but Jim*s brother) Byrne has recently changed his job and is now working for Cadillac Press and super\'ising the publication of a book on psy­chologj*. Claude Frantz is no longer at Apex Electric, but is manufacturing a cleaning fluid. 
Johnnie Grucza is working for the County —we were surprised to learn that he now has two children. Jim Collcran is working for Lybrand, Ross Brothers & Montgomerj*, and spends much of his time on trains. Jack Lonff is back with Philip Morris, and Bob Lochner is with Greyhound. George Ker\er was at the Rally with a very light colored hat, and spot­lessly clean hat, as usual. Walter Miller was seen driving down Euclid under a hat with the top of his €:ar turned down. How do you like Cecil Hobert's Jaccbson Arnoff suit ? Hmmm. Norm Greenoy is working for the government, and Phil Prendcrgast is selling engraving. Bob Lynch has interests in Youngs­town. Carol Stalcy recently moved to Lake­wood from Cincinnati. Harry Black is dis­patching stuff at CCC. John Butler is well after a serious accident. Brother Bob attended the Army game via Catalina Island. Bill Van Booy's company is in new quarters, the old Thompson Products plant. Tony Poclking is a prosecutor at police court—the court where fines for parking and speeding are paid, Fred Zeitow is a salesman for Carrier Air Condi­tioning. And that brings us down- to the Z's without mentioning Matt Tmdelle. Bob Col­gan or Dan Salmon, all of whom were at the rally. 
AI Lawton. 
CONNECTICUT VALLEY 
WilUam A- Huriey, *28, 70 Montrose St . Springfield, Mass., President; Francis T. Aheam, *27. c-o Hartford Times. Hartford, Conn., Secretary. 
DALLAS 
James P. Swift. '24. 1202 Southwestern Life Bldg., Dallas, President; Francis A. McCoI­lough. '30. 917 First National Bank Bldr<. Dallas, Secretary. 
DAYTON 
Engene Mayl. '24. 400 Irving Ave.. Presi­dent; William Cronin, *29. 418 Crafton Ave., Secretary. 
DENVER 
Robert A. Dick, '29, 930 Marion Stract, Telephone Bid?., President; Harry Lawrence, 
•29, 1932 Broadway, Secrctars'. 
DETROIT 
Lincoln Wurzer, *35, 758 Atkinson, Presi­dent; Arthur D. Cronin, '37, 19160 Wood­ston Road. Secretary. 
The Detroit Club was to co-operate with Council 305 of the Knights of Columbus in the promotion of a special train to the Min­nesota game, according to reports from Sec­retary Art Cronin. A party of at least 400 was anticipated for the train. 
DES MOINES 
John T. Stark, '17. 1048 35th St., President. 
DUBUQUE 
C
 I. Krajewski. '16, 321 Bank & Insurance Bldg.. President; Henry I. Trenkle. '24. 180 

S.
 Booth St.. Secretary. 


EASTERN INDIANA 
Thomas A. Cannon. '33. 401 Wysor Bldr.. Mande. Ind., Pres'dent; Alvis E. Granrcr* ex. *31. 617 S. Jefferson St.. Hartford City, Ind.. Secretary. 
EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA 
Leo R. Mclntyre, '28. Bethlehem, President. 
ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA 
Charles J. Wittman, '31. 621 Sdienley Dr., President; William K. Bayer. '36, 724 W. 10th St., Secretary. 
November. 1938 
FLINT (Michigan) 
Stephen J. Roth, *31, 723 Union Industrial Bldff,. President: Donald F. MacDonald. '31. 2134 S. Sasinaw St.. S|ecreUry. 
FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 
Edward S. Sullivan. '24. 125 E. Suttcnficid 
St., President; Maurice J. DeWald. '33. 2415 
Hnbnrtas. St.. Secretary. 
Recently Professor Pat Manion gave a fine address to the members of the Kiwanis Club at the Chamber of Commerce. The Notre Dame Club and their guests were invited. Among those present were: Hcnrj' Haslcy, Robert Eggeman. Fred Schoppman. Mart Torborg, Andrew Perry and myself. Pat gave a wonderful address in honor of Christopher Columbus. He received an outstanding hand of applause from the audience. In fact the best applause received by any noon luncheon speaker. Bob Eggeman did a very commend­able job in presenting Pat to the audience^ 
In honor of Columbus, Frank Hogan ad­dressed the Lions Club. Maurice J. DcWald, 
GOGEBIC RANGE 
Francis J. Vakovich, '35. Ridge St.. Iron­wood, Mich.. President; John C. Sullivan, *22, 10 Newport Heights. Ironwood, Alich.. Secretary. 
During August Earl Brown, present star athlete, his mother and brother were visitors in Ironwood and were tlie house jniesis of the Victor Lemmers. 
Victor Lemmer with Mrs. Lemmer and son. Bin, saw the Carnegie Tech game. Young Bill is an ardent Notre Dame man at ten years so what he'll be in another eight years you can only imagine. Vic has been named manager and auditor of the Gogebic County Fair Board and, as such, put on one of the most successful fairs in the county's history this year. 
Frank Vukovich and his wife attended a Packer game in Green Bay recently. 
Bab O'Callaghan is in and out of town. His territory extends over northern Michigan and Wisconsin, and we don't see him very often. 
Ed Simonich worked at the Ironwood city water pumping station during the summer so he should be in good shape. We are expect­ing Ed to continue his fine showing made last fall with the football squad. 
Ted Nolan is teaching in Iron Belt. Wis­consin, but gets into Ironwood over the week­ends. Ted has been named principal of the Iron Belt school system. 
John Wollack. '35, has been named coach of St. Ambrose High School basketball teams. This is in addition to his duties in the Iron­wood High school system and athletic depart­ment. 
Joe Gill is still in Iron River, Michigan, as director of the Emergency Relief Transient Camp. IL is one of the two camps in the state of Michigan. 
Klathryn Pendleton has returned this year to the Ironwood school system and is interested in both the high school and junior college. 
John C Sullivan. 
GRAND RAPIDS 
Earl Lcacfa, '29, 622 Gladstone. S.E.. Presi­dent; A. John Alt. ex. '34, 628 Tamer Ave., Secretary. 
GREATER LOUISVILLE 
Robert Barlce. '36, 2114 Donglass Boulevard. Louisville, President; Pan! Hartcrsteck, '34, 2303 BorweD, Loaisville, Secretary. 
GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
NoAcrt Christman. *32, 1113 Lawe Street. President; A. E. Bicbcl, '31, 112 S. Wash, inffton Street, Secretary. 

November, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
HAMILTON; OHIO KL O. Bams, '86. 338 S. Second St, Presi­dent; Marc A. Fiehrer. '27, 701 Rentschlcr BIdff.. Secretary. 
HARRISBURG John J. McNeill. '33, 358 S. 13th Street. President; Richard J. O'Donnell. '31. 615 N. 18th Street, Secretary. 
HIAWATHALAND (Mich.-Wis.) 
Joseph A. Laaerman, '31. 1975 Riverside 
Ave.. Marinette. Wis.. President; Francis C. 
Boyce. ex. "32. 1401 First Ave.. S.. Esca­
naba. Mich.. Secretary. 
HOUSTON Charles S. Atchison, ex. '30, 418 W. Ala­bama Street. President; Raymond B. Keat­ing, '35, 1805 Stcrline Bldf;., Secretary. 
INDIANAPOLIS Arthur C. Shea, *22. 25S N. Meridian, Presi­dent; Francis J. Noll, '31. 1103 Merchants Bank BIdi:.. Secretary. 
Secretary Frank Noll, Jr. sends word that the club is making extensive plans for its dinner on November 30, to honor Father Thomas Steiner, new United States provincial of the CongreKation of Holy Cross. Father Steiner formerly worked in Indianapolis as a civil engineer, and has innumerable friends there. These, with many of the city's leadrrs among alumni and non-alumni, will be present for the dinner in the Indianapolis Athletic Club. J. Albert Smith is the chairman of the Commitcc for the Distinguished Guests; John HarrinRton is chairman of the Program Com­mittee, and Mike Fox is in charge of Special Features. Mike, incidentally, has just recov­ered from an appendectomy. 
Frank also reports that the Monday lunch­eons at the Board of Trade are verj- well at­tended. New faces recently include: John BlackweU, John Carr, Tom Conroy, Don Felts and Bob Hilger. Luncheon Chairman LoeQlcr anticipated a record attendance at the lunch­eon on Monday, October 31, when drawings were to be made for the Scholarship Fund prizes. A second drawing for prizes will be m~dc on Monday, November 28. 
JACKSON, MICHIGAN 
JOLIET, ILLINOIS Thomas P. Fecly, '32. E16 BudI Ave., Presi­dent; Lawrence J. Danda, ex. *33. 334 N. Raynor Ave., Secretary* 
KANSAS Albert J. Gebert. '30, U. of Wichita, Wich­ita. Kansas. President; Dan Welchons. *30, 623 Elm St. Ottawa, Kansas, Secretary. 
KANSAS CITY (Missouri-Kansas) John J. O'Connor. '34, 4133 Mercier Street. Kansas City. Mo., President; Norman M. Bowes. *33, 5525 RockhiU Road. Kansas City, Mo.. Secretary-
Since the publication of the last ALUMNUS we have received four copies of "How to Lose Friends" and three challenges to physical combat. Thus far we have avoided a show­down on nil fronts. 

We had a late crop of orange blossoms do^\-n our way, here on the edge of the Ozarks. Our genial, pitch-plai'ing prexy. Jack O'Connor, took unto himself a bride this past October 18 at the Log Chapel at Notre Dame, The party of the second part was one Loretta Fetters of these parts. His old pals in St. Ed's and Sorin won't believe this news of the old hermit: but Charles WaterfiU Higgins drove to Michiana for the ceremony and v.-ill attest to the effect. It is understood that the groom's pitch activities will be sharply cur­tailed. 
Hee Garvey, of Holyoke, Massachusetts, was a pleasant visitor late in September, combin­ing business and pleasure. Hec was a tackle on the Rocknc teams prior to the Four Horse­men era. He chanced on Dr. Gerald Barry in a drug store here and a fair-sized reunion re­sulted: Gar weighs 265, Barry. 225. 
Our sick list numbers Senator George Rein­hardt. Jr., who is convalescing from injuries received in a nasty auto crash during the summer. We missed his familiar trail of stogie smoke. Dan Foley also was down for a couple of Weeks with a minor ailment. Both are apparently now on the upgrade. 
Early in October we had occasion to see Creighton of Omaha, ably coached by March Schwartz and Tom Gorman, whip a favorable Oklahoma Aggie team, 16-7. The Bluejay line played an aggressive game. Schwartz is the parent of husky twins: between them and his conference foes, he complains of lack of sleep. 
John "Gunner" McGrath, of Sedalia, was reported skulking around Kansas City corners one warm October day. He often drives the 90 miles to a favorite chili spot. Observers remarked that "Shotgun" might have stalked 
16th Annual 
Universal Notre Dame Night 
April 17 
Make your plans now 
a critter or a squirrel up this far—or vice versa. 
Scnor Joe O'Bo'an was up to the American Royal Stock Show from Hepler. Kansas, and denied further tilts with freight trains. He lately put Bob Tyler through a short course in practical veterinary. Joe asked about Charley Meyer who was last heard from in Houston, Texas, 
We note that old "Slick Larry" Sexton is emerging from hibernation up Indianapolis way. We venture that there is something afoot. Judge Cain always plagued Sexton as to what was going on behind those pink spec­tacles. Because of the reflection the Judge could not see Larry's eyes. 
Word comes that Maurice "Moe" Lee, the Chicago anarchist, is still preaching anti-New Deal dogma. Lee and "Joe the Bomber" Kirinich were the parlor pinks of the '33 class. 
From the Kansas wastes we gather that Norb Schwartz and Jchn Gcise are wending their merry way through the sandhills, dodg­ing Cupid and creditors alike. We would like to borrow their stuff. Jim Louy, the former Independence Assassin, has been trying all summer to eliminate his hook on a suburban driving tee (Over-shoulder note: his back-swing is too fast!). He and WlUic Mahoney are competitors in the oil racket. The latter 
has slowed down considerably, what with the 
advent of a daughter and some 30 pounds. 
From Leavenworth we hear that Joe Holman 
is practicing law. after taking his professional 
work at Kansas University. 
Norman M. Bowes. 
LA PORTE, INDIANA Normmn £. Dnke. '34. 304 Niles St.. Preii­dent; Robert E. Qainn, ex. '36, 1401 Monroe St.. Secretary. 
LOS ANGELES DoncUs Daky. *30, 781 Ceres Ave.. Prai­dent; Thomas Aalte. '31, 7110 Middleton St.. Hnntincton Park. Calif.. SecrcUry. 
LOUISIANA-MISSISSIPPI 
P. E. Burke. '88, 307 Carap St. New Or­leans. La.. President: Cyprian A. Spori. Jr., '28, Whitney-Central BId«., New Orleans. La.. Secretary. 
MANILA 
Alfonso Ponce Emile. *05. Manila. Presi­dent; Gonzalo R. Valdes. *35. 709 San Mar­celino. Secretary. 
MEMPHIS Galvin Hudson. *15, Paricvicw Hotel. Presi­
dent; Bailey Walsh, ex. '27. Colombian Ha­
taal Tower. Secretary. 
Bailey Walsh reports that a large delegation of club members attended the Georgia Tech game at Atlanta. Some of those attending" were: Galvin Hudson. John Montedonico. Dave Saxon, Jerry Foley. Donnell McCormtck and Bailey Walsh. A contingent of Georgia Tech alumni also represented Memphis at the game. 
MIAMI. FLORIDA VInrant a GiUin. '18, 4103 Collin, ATC^ Aliami Bcacli, President; DmnicI J. Lino, ex. 
•34. 1617 N. W. Nintll Ave., Mumi. Secre­tary. 
MILWAUKEE James B. Corrican, '33. 1829 N. 69th St. President: John E. Clander. '34. 1219 W. Vliet St., Secretary. 
We had a joint meeting with the Illinois Club to listen to the broadcast of.the game last week and there were about 15 njen present. 
With elections coming on next month we find that two Notre Dame men are" running for office. Earl O'Brien is runing for the office of district attorney here in Milwaukee, and John Martin is running for the office of attorney general for the state of Wisconsin. 
Our past president. Joe Griffin, is now in Hartford, Connecticut, having received a nice promotion. 
Attended the wedding of Jack Purdy. '34, and Loraine O'Hara in Chicago. October 8. and saw many of the old guard, including Bad McNicfaols. Jack Mathews. Jack Hoffan. Tighe Woods. Jack Daffy. Ed Kyan and many others. Good time was had by all. 
For the benefit of any Notre Dame men coming to Milwaukee, the Maryland Hotel is our headquarters, and anyone there will gladly inform them as to how to reach the Notre Dame men in this town. 
John E. Claadcr. 
MONTANA Hngh O* Kecfe. *31. 321 Walker SL, Batte. President; Ray Cowles. *37. 213 N. Idaho St., Batte. Secretary. 
NASHVILLE 
Kennedy Jones. "SO, Jones Chemical Cou. Secretary. 
NEW JERSEY Dr. Pmnl A. O'Connor, ll , Newark Citr 
Hospital. Newark, President: John R. Blan­
da, '31, 172 Passaic St, Passaic, Secretarr. 
The club held another interesting and well* attended meetins: on Octolier 3. at which 

The Notre Dame Alumnus November. 1938 
many matters o£ special interest to the Notre Dame alumni were discussed. President Backy O'Connor seems to be "in the eroove" so to speak, with regard to the mechanical direction of a meeting, inasmuch as all mat­ters undertaken and all discussions were carried out smoothly and without friction. 
On the occasion of our last meeting-, the club was honored by a visit from a Mr. Lucy, who gave a very fine talk on the formation of a new organiaztion known as the United Catholic Press Association, the purposes of 
•whidi are to foster more accurate newspaper reporting concerning all Catholic matters. Mr, "Lucy was very well received and, as a result, the club went on record to have four delegates appointed to take part in this association. 
Kay Geiger reported on the Retreat which had been held, and commenced a discussion as to a change in the fiate of the Retreat in order that more members of the club could be present. Bay stated that on the occasion of the Retreat, he heard a lecture given by the Reverend "VVuenchell on the "Turin Shroud" and in speaking, became so enthu-­siastic that his enthusiasm became infectious, 
•causing
 a clamor at the meeting with regard to making arrangements for the presentation of the lecture by the club. Jerry FroeKch, who also attended the Retreat and heard the lec­ture, was likewise imbued with an inexplicable enthusiasm concerning this lecture, and spoke >\'ith such fer\'or in favor of holding the lec­ture that every one in the club furthered the plan of hearing Father 'Wuenchell. As a re­sult of the fine and inspired discussions, the following were appointed by Back}' O'Connor to act on the committee to arrange for the 

•presentation
 of this lecture: Jcny Froelich, Bay Geiger, Tom Farrell, Harney Rockwell and Dan O'Neill. 

Pete Quinn was appointed chairman of the 

•Navy
 game trip. 

I would like to report that I received a ••phone call from Charles Longhby, who has some very excellent information to impart to the members of the club, and it seems that 

•Charlie
 is going to make a very welcome new member of our club. 


Among those present at the meeting were Toby Kramer, Bob Ryan. Bill Moritz, Dan O'Neill, Joe Drinanc. John Neubauer, Jimmy <lainn, Al Albino, Jack and Andy O'Kcefe. Bcmte Reilly, Harry Gratton, Jim O'Keefe, Tom Trcacy, Pete Quinn. Joe Schilling, Dick Derricks and Dr. Art TutcJa. 
John P. Blanda. 
NEW YORK CITY 
Daniel J. O'Nea. '25, lOl Cooper St. Prai­dent; Robert A. Hamilton. '28, 63 Wall St., Secretary. 
The Reunion and Bally at the Pennsylvania Hotel on October 28, was the talk of the town, and of the whole country as well, when this was written. An outline of the plans for -this event was published in the October ALUMNUS. A further report will appear in the December issue. 
Dan Halpin presided over the October 4 Tneeting, in the absence of honeymooning president. Daniel (in the lion's den) O'NciL Bob Hamilton appealed for the assistance of club members in publishing a club directory, and TJCO McLaughlin gave an encouraging re­port on the work of the Rockne Memorial committee. John Balfe likewise did an en­couraging job with a report on the Scholarship Fund tickets. 
Later Hagfa O'DonneU presented Maurice Andrews, the speaker of the evening. Maury, once intimately associated with such figures as President Benes of Cezchoslovakia, former President Herbert Hoover, and His Holiness, the Pope, gave a fascinating talk on the "in­side" of the international crisis in Europe. John Hinkcl was also scheduled to talk of his experience in Spain, but was unavoidably detained in Hartford on an assignment for the New York 'Hmcs.' 
Under the expert chairmanship of John Balfe, the club unemployment committee is doing an efficient job in placing Notre Dame men. At the last report of the committee. 16 Notre Dame men were working through the committee's efforts. Members of the club are urged to cooperate by reporting jobs open wherever they may appear, and by urging Notre Dame men in need of empIo3*ment to report to John. 
(Editor's note: Special thanks from the Placement Bureau of the Alumni Office to Mr. Balfe, ard his committee for the excellent work being accomplished.) 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 
Paul J. Cashing, '31, 1221 Central Bank Bldg., Oakland. Calif.. President; PmvH VL Enrigfat. *31. Central Bank Bldg., Oakland, Calif., Secretary. 
NORTHERN LOUISIANA 
Arthur J. Kane, '31. 307 Wilkinson, Shrere­port. President; James R. Nowery. *29, 
P. O. Box 1545, Shreveport. Secretary. 
NORTH IOWA 
OKLAHOMA 
Joseph A. Moran, '32. 1611 S. Carson. Tnlsa. President; Harion J. Blake, '33, National Bank of Tulsa Bldg., Tulsa, Secretary. 
OREGON 
Barney McNab. '25, Terminal Sales Bldg., Portland. President; Natt McOonffall, Jr., '33, 45 S. W. First Avenue, Portland, Sec­retary. 
PARIS 
Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, New York Herald-Tribune, Paris, France, President. 
PEORIA 
WiUiam J. Motsett, '34. 616 Btgelow St.. President; Ridiard H. Delancy, '37, 220 N. Glenwood, SeeretarT' 
PHILADELPHIA 
Clifford E. Prodehl. '32. 6070 Chester Are.. President; John J. Rcilly. ex. '33, Glen Ave., Laurel Springs, N. J., Secretary. 
Pcrc (renamed "Eller") Connolly beating the phone bell in an effort to contact club members and vice versa . . . Informal meet­ing of the Travelers Club on the comer of 15th and Chestnut Sts. nearly any day between one and three with Jade Kenny, Connie Byrne in full blast. . . . 
Saw Bay McNally on the street the other day. which makes me wonder what happened to Vince Donohue? SOS for Joe Dalsey now that we are both fellow-sandhogs. Tom Magee is worliing up in New York state. Bumi>ed into Tom BHsard who promises to jump in on our next session. Pat Conway is being boomed for the championship at West Catho­lic High. Hope the football sportscasters are right about this one! 
Has Frank A. (Aetna) MdSIanns caught up with you yet? Similes —McManus and the Northwest Mounted. (Or maybe I should have said Dick McClnre?) Wonder if he would like the job hunting for Harry Frandi? Jodi D'Amora expounding culture and hard tack­ling on the Main Line. .. . Lindsay Phoelnu should be married long enough by now to be able to sneak back for an occasional night with the rowdies. (P.S. Send ten cents to this address for our new book "Mental Equiv­ocations and Bluffs for All Occasions"). 
Rumor has it that Bill Bodo started for the last meeting but was lost in the beauty of 
the new subway cars. Liberal Reward if re­
turned. 
We would like to say that we propose to have the accent on the social side this year, and plans are under way for lots of informal entertainment, so any of you fellows passing this way. we'll be more than glad to see you. Without saying, that goes double for the local lads who are irregular in attendance. We have the two ingredients close to the Notre Damer's hearL 
Jack Reilb-. 
It will be of interest to Notre Dame to know that Thomas E. Byrne, Jr., *34. Raymond J. Broderick, *35, and John J. Matthews, '35, successfully passed the Pennsylvania State Board Law Examinations on their first trial. The examinations were held July 28 and 29 last, and the list was published yesterday. Successful candidates represent 56.87 percent of the 371 who took the examination. 
In view of the character of Pennsylvania. State Bar Examinations, and the fact that the Notre Damers were 100 percent successful, this should rate a notice in the ALUMNUS. I am quite proud of these boys, who certainly took their work seriously, and the results show it. Broderick and Matthews are gradu­ates of the University of Pennsylvania Law School, and Byrne of Temple.University Law School. 
John H. Necson. 
PHOENIX, ARIZONA 
E. J. Hilkert, *22. 402 Title & Trust Bldg., Phoenix, President. 
RHODE ISLAND & SOUTH. MASS. 
John McKieman, '34, 1231 Industrial Tmat Bldg., Providence, R. I.. President; Charles Grimes, '20, 47 Nelson St.. Providence, R. I., Secretary. 
Promotion: Graham J. Norton, Boy Guid­ance, '23. has been appointed director-general of the Pawtucket Boys Club, one of the oldest and most heavily - endowed boys' clubs in America-
Travel: By rail, auto, airplane and by boat approximately 1,500 Rhode Islanders went to the Yankee Stadium for the NJ).-Army game. Leo B, 3IcAloon. ex. '30, directed the train and boat trip with John S. MciKeman, *34, handling ticket sales and the profits going to the alumni scholarship fund. 
Social: John S. McKieman represented the alumni at a bachelor dinner tendered John J. McLanghlin, '34, at Woonsocket, October 11, by about 300 friends and business associates. 
Charlie Grimes. 
ROCHESTER (New York) 
John Dorschel. '31, 184 Curlew St, Presi­
dent; John Norton, '36, 80 Beckwith Terrace, 
Secretary. 
John Norton, new secretary of the Rochester club, reports that the following other new officers were recently elected: John Dorsdiel, president; Bill Bell, \*ice-president; 3Iarty Bayer, treasurer-
The club members were much grieved by the death of Victor Yawman's wife, and they wish, through the ALUMNUS, to etxend to Vic and to the family, their deepest sympathy. 
ROCK RIVER VALLEY (IIIinoM) Raich F. Hetcr, 'IS, liSl W. Stoner St, Fmport, HL, President: Robert Dixon, '25, Fneport, III., Secretary. 
SAGINAW VALLEY (Michigan) 
Thomu F. Van Aarle, '21, Standard Oil Co., 
Sadnaw, Midi., President; WilUara C. Hnr­
ler, '25, 117 Cherrjr St., Sacinaw, Midi., 
Secretary. 

November, 1938 
SAN ANTONIO 
John A. Bitter, *30. 302 Castano, San Antonio, Frciident; Dndley R. Walker, Jr.. ex. '38, 138 Katherine Court, San Antonio, Secretary. 
SANDUSKY, OHIO 
Charles M. Mooch. '25, 923 W. Washington Street, President; Russell R. Smith, '28, 2117 Monroe Street, Secretary. 
SCRANTON 
Robert A. Golden. '32, 216 Colfax Ave., President; Thomas F. Leahy. *23, 415 Chamber of Commerce BIdir.. Secretary. 
SOUTHWESTERN CONNECTICUT 
John C. Redeatc, '30, 92' Aldinc Avennc. Bdieeport. President; Dr. Thomas J. Tara­sovtc, '32, 49 Dover St., Bridceport, Secre­tary, 
SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS 
Oliver Field. '31, lOl'^ S. Walnut Street, President; Walter Bernard, '3G, 815 South Walnut Street, Secretary. 
ST. LOUIS 
John J. Hoban. '3G, 632 Vogel Place, East St. Louis. III., President; Paul Brumby, ex. '34, 915 Pierce Bide., Secretary. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY (Indiana) 
Dillon Patterson, '20, J.M.S. BIdff.. South Bend. Indiana, President; Clarence Harding, '25, South Bend Tribune, South Bend, Ind., Secretar}-. 
SYRACUSE 
Waiiam S. Cate, '27, 136 Harding Place, President; Charles C Topping, '28, 804 E. Water St., Secretary. 
Last April 19, the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse and Central New Yorlc held its an­nual meeting at the University Club of Syra­cuse. A majority of the club members were present. After a very tasty dinner, the an­nual election of officers was held- Bill Cate, who skippers the Acme Fast Freicht organ­ization in our fair city, was elected president. and yours truly was chosun to take care of the correspondence and guard the club funds. Movies of a thrilling game between Ohio State and Notre Dame were shown and greatly enjoyed by all. 
Our club name has been changed to the Notre Dame Club of Syracuse. Alumni mem­bers from outside the city have not been at­tending meetings for some time, so we de­cided to do away with the "Central New York" part of the name. 
The annual summer outing was held at the Skaneatelcs Country Club, through the cour­tesy of Jim Huxford. Several foursomes churned up the fair\vays and sank 15-footers during the afternoon. Jake Ekcl, Leo Kelly, Bill Sullivan and Jim Huxford Anally finished their 18-hoIe match along about sundonni. When the golf was finished, the members adjourned to the frigid waters of Skaneateles Lake, where Leo Kelly took movies of Duke Kinney's fancy diving. A splendid chicken dinner finished oft the evening. 
The Notre Dame Club of Syracuse again donated a trophy to the Syracuse Parochial League Baseball Champion. Frank Shangh­ncssy, president of the International League, came to Syracuse and presented the cup at the Syracuse Municipal Stadium, before several thousand people. The club received quite a lot of favorable radio and newspaper publicity. 
We have had great success with our weekly luncheon meetings this year. They are held the second Tuesday of each month at the University Club. 
Charles G. Topping. 

TIFFIN, OHIO C J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St., Presi­dent; Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St , Secretary. 
TOLEDO 
Ray Tillman. '25. 2027 Bretton Place. Pres­ident; Joe Wetli, *31. 717 Starr Avenue, Secretary. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
TRIPLE CITIES (New York) 
William G. Yeager, '34, 18 Vine St., Bing­hamton, N. Y., President; James H. Hogan, '34, 62 Mary St, Binghamton. N. Y., Sec­retary. 

The Triple Cities Club held its Octofcer meet­ing at Donnelly's Hotel. President BiU Yea­gcr, '34, presided, and urged all the members to contribute to the Rockne Memorial Foun­dation Drive. 
Pete Wack. '23. is to take the final step on Thanksgiving Day. Pete is to marry Miss Elizabeth Ann l^IcCauley, a teacher in the Binghamton school system, and a graduate of the College of St. Rose at Albany. The wed­ding is to take place in the St. Patrick's Church of this city. Jack Wacks, '36, a brother, is to be the best man. 
Dr. Frank Kane, '26, has opened his new office on Riverside Drive after returning from 
16th Annual 
Universal 
Notre Dame 
Night 
April 17 
Make your plans now 

Bermuda—his wedding trip. Dr. John Kane, who spent one year at Notre Dame, is contin­uing at the Front Street office. 
Married life seems to agree with Stew Oshomc, '3i. At any rate he rs looking pretty good these days. 
John Donnelly, *34. and Regis McNsmara, *32, two big politicians of the Southern Tier, have just returned from the Democratic State Convention. Bill Ycagcr has taken out a hunting license, and we expect big things from the local Frank Buck. 
Dr. John O'Brien, *29, former Notre Dame tennis captain, just bought a tract of land on the East End. 
The club is proud of the fact that Union John Endicott High selected a Notre Dame nuin for their line coach this fall. Of course, it is none other than John Patrick Murphy, •33. 
Jim Hogan. 

TRI-CITIES (Illinois-Iowa) 
George Uhlmeyer, '23, Peoples* Light Co., Moline, 111., President; Elmer W. Besten, '27, 1711 W. Sixth St, Davenport, Iowa, Secretary. 

TRI-STATE (Ind.-Ill.-Ky.) 
E. Brown Miller. '24, Southern Commercial Corp., Citizens Bank Bldg.. Evansville, Ind., President; Dr. Wm. J. Endress, '25, 301 Grant Street, Evansville, Ind., Secretary. 

TUCSON, ARIZONA 
Vincent Hengesbach, ex.'27, I7I0 E. 2nd St, Tucson, President; Ted A. Witz, tx. '29, Box 628, Tucson, Secretary. 
5S 

Last Saturday evening a group of the local Notre Dame Club boys traveled to Phoenix to see the pupils of that man of football mt Santa Clara play the Universitr of Arizona. Buck had a couple of good teams and the Wildcats just couldn't take them. However. it was good from the stands as we were able to watch a team that reminds ns of the fel­lows back there. Shaw has done some really fine work and we all are proud of him. 
'While driving to Phoenix we listened to the broadcast of the Illinois.Notre Dame game. We all regret that we can't pick up each one of the Notre Dame games. Conditions for radio reception in Arizona aren't best during the daylight hours, and so we must be satis­fied with one or two games that the chain, sends over the air lanes. 
Steve Rebeil, -'27, had a grand opening of his new store which is the hottsewife's delight, as he sells everything from ran'ges down to pic pans. We wish him the best of success. 
Ted Witz. 

TWIN CITIES (Minnesota) Percy Wilcox, *23, SlinneaprtiB Gcnerml Elec Co., MinneapeUa, Miiiii., President; Arnold Klein, Jr.. *32. 1612 25th Ave., Nsu, Minne­apolis, Secretary. 
UTAH Raymond R. Brady. *24. 206 Keams Bid e Salt Lake City, President; CyrU Harbecke,. '19, 64 F. SL, Salt Lake City. Secretary. 
UTICA, NEW YORK Dr. John F. Kclley. '22. Peoples Gas & Elec­tric Bldr- President; Joseph W. FaHeH^ *31. 1621 Neilson St.. Secietaaiy. 
WABASH VALLEY (Indiana) Paul Kennedy, '24. Tcmpleton. Ind.. Presi­dent; Emmett Ferguson, '32. Wallace BIdr.. Lafayette. Ind., Secretary* 
WASHINGTON. D. C Robert Caranangb, '36. 44S$ Volts Place, N.W.. President; Blarray A. Bossell. Jr.. ex., *32. 6606 Bamaby St. N.W^ Secretary. 
WATERBURY, CONNECTICUT John Robinson. *28, Cheshire. Connecticat, Preudent; James BC, Msna«han, '27, 44 Ayer St., Secretary. 
WHEELING, WEST VIRGINIA Ralph Jorden. '26. Bridgeport. Ohio. Picsl­dent: Leo J. Kletzly. '31, 10 Zone Street,. Wheeling. Secretary. 
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA Hugh A. Gallacher, "30. 1501 HcFarland Road, Bfonnt Lebanon, President; Donald Martin. "SS, 204 S. Graham St.. Fittsbarth. Secretary. 
WESTERN WASHINGTON Thomas E. Meade. *32, 3321 Cascaadia Ave.. Seattle. President; Angnst von Baeddin, '34, 74 East Road. Taconu. Secretary. 
WEST VIRGINIA 
Hugh J. Loder. ex.. '32, 104 Capitol Street,. 
Charleston, President; John Cadcley. '37. 
1S21 Lee St.. Charleston. Secxctary. 

WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Sister Elizabeth Seton. S.C.. Mt S t Joseph. Ohio. President: Sister H. Ahgelice. B.VJa., St Joseph Convent, Mt Camel, Dnbnqae.. Iowa, Secretary. 
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO John Moran, '29. 1348 Qoinn. President; Charles Cnshwa, '31, 463 Madera Avenne. Secretary. 
MEXICO (a proposed clnb) 
A recent letter from Paul Rodriqaex. ex. *32, enthusiastically proposes that a Notre Dame Club be organized in Mexico. He prom­ises his help and support in such an orsani­aztion. Paul's address is Globe Petroleum Company, Apartado 732, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico. Those interested — and there must be many — should communicate with him. 
Paul reports that his brother, Henry. '30, is an electrical engineer in South America with thp Standard Oil of New Jersey. 
56 The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1938 
« « «
THE ALUMNI 
Engagements 
Announcement has been made of the fol­lowing cncaRements: 
Miss Norma Mack* and Robert N. Lcppert, ''32, of Indianapolis. 
Miss Louise Schmidt and W, Lawrence Sexton, '33, of Indianapolis. 
Marriages 
Miss Helen B. Filigiano and Stephen C Corboy, '25, were married, October 22, in Val­paraiso, Indiana. 
Miss Mary Patricia Kavanaugh and Bernard Keman Wingerter, '26, were married iu Port­land, Oregon, on October 4. 
The marriage of Miss Catherine Prendergast and Dennis D. Dalj*, '2S, took place, June 18, in St. Paul, Minnesota. 
Miss Helen Barry and J. Thad Hcinlcin, '29, ^vere married, September 21, in Erie, Pennsyl­vania. Ushers at the ceremony included Gerard O'Connor, '29, Theodore Wciblc, '29, and Rob­ert Wcschler, '30. 
The marriage of Miss Rosa Nancy i-Iayer and Morton R. Goodman, '30, took place, Octo­ber IS, in Cnicago. 
Miss Eugenie Charticr and Robert SL Dwycr, 
•ex. '35, were married. October 1, in West Wan.vick, Rhode Island. 
Miss Marguerite Cathmie Troeger and Wil­liam R. LanjTcnbahn, '32, were married, Octo­ber 11, in the Log Chapel, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Alice I>aperal and Edward Crockett, ex. '32, took place. October 
17. in Oak Park, Illinois. 
Miss Mary Louise Thomas and William Leppert. ex. '31, were married, October 22, in Indianapolis. 
Miss Helen Slattery and John J. McLaugh­lin, '34, were married, October 27, in Valley . Falls. Rhode Island. 
The marriage of Miss X<orraine O'Hara and John P. Pordy, '34, took place, October 8, in Chicago. 
Miss Eathr>-n Jane Dolk and Robert K. Kelley, '34, were married, October 18. in Sacred Heart Church, Notre Dame. 
Miss Martha Gushing, daughter of the late John F. Cushintr* '06, donor of the engineering building at Notre Dame, and Clarence J. Fidcard, were married, October S, in the Log ChrpeJ, Notre Dame. 
The marriage of Miss Clare AuU and Hugh 
E. Wall, Jr., '36, took place, September 22, in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Miss Jean Marchand and Kenneth H. Mar­ine, ex. '38, were married recently in Phoenix, Arizona. 
Hiss Norma Elda Donathan and Charles S. Hnuka, ex. *41, were married, October 8, in South Bend. 
Births 
A son, James Allan HI, was born to Mr. and Mrs. James A. Allan. '28, on September 9, in Chicago. 
Mr. and Mrs. John A. Mullen, '28, announce the birth of a daughter, Leora Margaret, on August 2, in New York City. 
Mr. and Jlrs. John R. Slurpby, '28, an­nounce the birth of a daughter, Rosemary, on August 11, in Columbus, Ohio. 
A daughter, Margcanne Eliazbeth, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. AVillard C Fortier, '29, on July 5, in South Bend. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Flynn, '31, an­nounce the birth of a son, Michael Burnett, on August 30, in Richmond Hill, New York. 
A son was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Antonio R. Diaz, ex. '32, in Merida, Yucatan, Mexico. 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Hamilton, '34, an­nounce the birth of a daughter. Mary Suzan, on September 10, in Racine, Wisconsin. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick Baer, '33, announce the birth of a daughter, on October 21, in South Bend. 
A daughter, Maureen Alice, was bom to Mr. and Jlrs. J Clement Grimes, '29. in Provi­dence. Rhode Island. 
A son. David Edward, was bom to Mr. and Mrs. J. Willard Jones, '25, the last week in August, in Dixon, Illinois. {Ed's note: Choose your weapons, Mr. Jones.) 
A son, Michael Edward, was liom to Mr. and Mrs. J. Gcomc Arce, ex, '33, on October 23, in Pontiac, Michigan. 
Deaths 
Rev. Patrick J. Crawley, ex. '96, for long years a generous and devoted friend of Notre Dame, was washed to sea and drowned when the hurricane hit Rhode Island on September 
21. A priest of the Helena, Montana, diocese Father Crawley on account of illness had made his home ^\•ith his sister in Central Falls, Rhode Island. Before going to Montana he served in the Fort Wayne, Indiana, diocese as pastor of Lebanon and Marion. Bom in County Roscommon, Ireland, he tvas educated for the priesthood in Mt. St. Marj-'s Sem­inary, Cincinnati. 
William E. Jeannott, ex. *S5, former presi* dent of the West Michigan Steel Foundry Company and of the Eagle Foundry and Ma­chine Company, both of Muskegon, Michigan, died in Muskegon on October 4 after a long illness. 
Elizabeth Nourse. Laetare medalist in 1921. one of America's great woman artists, died in Paris on October 9. The painter of more than 200 canvasses, most of them interpreting the poor and humble. Miss Nourse is represented in many of the principal galleries of the United States. All her work reflects the deep spirituality that -was her life. 
Miss Nourse first achieved fame with her "Mother and Child" canvas which was ac­cepted by the Paris salon when the artist was wholly unknoK-n in art circles. This work is now on display in the Notre Dame gallery. Her most notable canvasses in the United States are "The Peasant Woman of Borst," in the Cincinnati museum; "Hrppy Days," in the Detroit Institute of Art; "The Fisher Girl of Picardy," in the national gallery in Wash­ington; "Mother and Children," in the Chica­go Art Institute: and "Twilight," in the To­ledo museum. 
Walter J. Ducey, '17, Jackson, Michigan, a leading member of the engineering staff of the Commonwealth & Southern Corporation, died suddenly on September 29 after being stricken in his home with coronary thrombo­sis. He was the president of the Notre Dame Club of Jackson and a loyal and intensive worker in the interests of the University. 
Walter joined the navy in 1917 and served through the World War, until 1919. He joined the Consumers Power Company, Jackson, in that year and was the company's chief elec­trical engineer in 1936, when he was trans­ferred to the staff of the parent concern. Com­monwealth & Southern. He was a director of the Junior Chamber of Commerce in Jackson. 
Father Hugh CDonnell, C.S.C., vice-presi­dent of the University and a close friend of the family, participated in the solemn requiem funeral Mass on October 3 and preached the sermon. 
Surviving Walter are his wife, t\vo sons and a daughter, his mother, two sisters and nine brothers. Among the brothers are Vincent, *28, and Robert, '37. 
Edward Boyle, Oil City, Pennsylvania, a student in 1897, is dead, according to a post office notice. Mr. Boyle was elected to the Alumni Association in 1926 and had been a faithful member ever since. 
Richard H. Meier, '37, Faulkton, South Da­kota, died on October 9 in St. Mary's Hospital. Minneapolis, after a year's illness 
Valedictorian of his class with the highest scholastic average in the history of Notre Dame (97.67 per cent), star debater, president of the Wranglers, member of the Round Table, winner of a 1937 Dome award for no­table accomplishment in extra-curricular activ­ities. Dick was brilliant as a student and no­table; as well, as a "good fellow" on the cam­pus. His achievements and his humble faith­fulness to the finest religious traditions of the University have become almost legendary among^ succeeding classes. 
a-iid the Religious Bulletin about Dick: "What a catastrophe for this promising man— if his brilliant mind and driving will had not been convinced that all is vanity but to love and serve God! To such as Dick Meier, whoso Uves are rooted in God. there is no catas­trophe." 
Matthew M. White, '88, Ida Grove. Iowa, is dead, according tc a post office notice. He 

November, 1938 
was the father of John White, '25, also of Ida Grove. 
The ALUMNUS extends sincere sympathy to Felix, Myers, '3S, upon the death of his mother; Victor G. Yawman, '2G, upon the death of his wife; Thomas HL, *3S. and J. Joseph Hughes, *31, upon the death of their father: Richard F. Lcahy» '38, upon the death of his mother; Vincent M., *31, and Robert J. Tedcrs, ex. •3-1, upon the death of their father; Joseph R. Munizzo, *32, upon the death of his father; Francis J. Nary, '34, upon the death of his father. 
Personals 
Rafrt«*A lAftO SccreUry: Hon. T. F. Gal­iSetOre l0W,3ghcr, Fitchbair, Mass. 
George Rudge, a student in 1S73-74, came from Youngstown, Ohio, to see Notre Dame overwhelm Kansas in the first game of the year on October 1. It was the first football game Mr. Rudge had ever seen. Notre Dame football did not get its start until some 15 years after he left the campus. 
lAft n 1AA<% Secretary: Prof. Robert M. 
ltt5U- 15TO ^d^^n^ CirdeviUe, Ohio. 
188 6 Secretary: Midiael 0. Bams, 338 S. " Second St., Hamilton, Ohio. 
188 7 - 188 8 Secretary: J. L. Heincman, Conncrsville, Indiana. 
188 9 Secretary: P. E. Burke, 301 Camp New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Patrick E. Burke, as vice-supreme master of the Fourth Degree, De Soto Province, was general chairman of the Knights of Columbus participation in the national Eucharisttc Con­gress held in New Orleans. October 17-20. Mr. Burke, on the 20th, had 400 K. of C. in his home for a buffet luncheon just before the Congress procession. This procession, Mr. Burke reports, was reviewed by the Papal Legato and other members of the hierarchy from the church of the Sacred Heart of Jesus of which Father Louis KelJey, C.S.C. is the pastor. 
Mr. Burke lunched on one day of the Con­gress with Alumni President Ambrose O'Con­nell who had accompanied Postmaster Gen­eral Farley to New Orleans. Another Notre Dame visitor seen by Mr. Burke was Charles Stubbs, '88, Galveston, Texas, who was pres­ent with his family. 
1890-189 3 Secretary: Louis P. Chute, 7 Univ. Ave.. Minneapolis, Alinn. 
189 4 Secretary: Hugh A, O'Donnell, 1 W. ^w*^-. 67th St, New York City, 
189 5 Secretary: Eustace Callinan, Sr., 1401 MiUs Tower, San Francisco, Calif. 
1896 Secretary: WiUiam P. Boms, 327 WtUard Ave., AEchigan City, Indiana. 
1897 Secretary: Rev. J. A. MacNamara, St. Jos. Sanitarinm, Kit. Clemens, Mich. 1898 Secretary: WiUiam C Kcgler, 9th & Sycamore Sts. Cincinnati, Ohio. 
1899 Secretary: Dr. Joseph F. Duane, 418 Jefferson Blvd.. Peoria, IlL 
1900-190 1 Secretary: Joseph J. Sullivan. " 1300. 139 N. Clark St., Chi­cago, IlL 
Chnck Fleming, who with his left foot place kicked the field goal that won, 5-0, for Notre Dame over Illinois in 1898 in the first game played between the two schools, sat on the Notre Dame bench when N.D. again "took" the mini on October 15. Also within the stadium (in an automobile in one comer of the field) was Mr. Fleming's good friend and 
The NotreDame Alumnus 
teammate. Father John Farley. Father Farley 
spends most of his time for the present in the 
Community Infirmary. 
190 2 Secretary: C. C SUtchell, 110 Soath Dearborn St, Bax 3. Chicago, IIL 
190 3 Secretary: Francis P. Burke. 904 Trust Co. BIdg., Milwaukee, Wis. 
Father Leonard Carrico, C.S.C., director of studies, was one of the principal speakers at the meeting on October 19 of the Association of Catholic Colleges of Michigan, which was held at S t Marj**s College, Orchard Lake, Michigan. Father Carrico's subject was "The College Teacher." Father M. A. Gientt M.S. '34, Ph.D, '36, is dean of S t Mary's and directed much of the meeting. 
190 4 Secretary: Robert £. Proctor, Monger **^" BIdg.. Elkhart Indiana. 
190 5 Secretary: Daniel J. O'Connor, 10 S. LaSallc St, Chicago, IIL 
190 6 Secretary: Thomas A. Lally, 811-13 Paulsen BIdg., Spokane Wash. 
190 7 Secretary: Rev. Thomas E. Burke, C.S.C., Notre Dame, Ind. 
190 8 Secretary: Frank X. Cull, BuDcley Building, Cleveland. Ohio. 
Dr. Jose Caparo, head of the Department of Electrical Engineering, discussed South Amer­ica and South American affairs on October 19 before the International Relations Department of the St. Joseph County Council of Feder­ated Church Women. Dr. Caparo used pictures to illustrate his talk. A native of South Amer­ica, Dr. Caparo taugbt there after he received his bachelor's degree at Notre Dame. He was in 1915 a delegate to the second Pan-American Congress and presented t^vo papers there. 
190 9 Secretary: E. P. Cleary, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
The campus is a familiar sight to Frank Walker this fall. He and Mrs. Walker have stopped several times to see their son, who is a freshman, and to partake of an interesting d:sh of footbalL 
191 0 Secretary: Rev. M. L. Moriarty, 1900 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. 
191 1 Secretary: Fred Steers, 1666 First National Bank BIdg., Chicago, IIL 
191 2 Secretary: B. J. Kaiser. 324 Fourth St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
191 3 Secretary: James J, Dcvitt. 921 En­gineers* BIdg., Cleveland, Ohio. 
191 4 Secretary: Frank H. Hayes, 406 Bank of America Building, Anaheim, Calif. 
191 5 Secretary: James E. Sanford, 1524 Farwell Ave., Chicago. HI. 
Depend upon Jim Sanford to come through. ITiis time he reports on the Indianapolis sec­tor: "The secretary enjoyed a visit with Bill Mooncy at Indianapolis early in October. Since his graduation. Bill has been associated with his father in Mooney-Mueller-Ward Company, wholesale druggists. He is now vice-president and general manager. He and Mrs. Slooney, formerly Dorothy Clone, were married nine years ago, and today Mary Jo, Ann. Bill and Mike help to keep life from growing monoto­nous. Bill is a frequent visitor to Notre Dame, and said that Elmer Layden's boys would have him back frequently this fall. 
"Two other classmates are in Indianapolis, John McShane and Leo Welch. John is a law­yer, with offices in the Fidelity Trust Build­ing, and is very active in Republican politics. He has one son. John, Jr. Leo is secretary and treasurer of John R. Welch & Sons, real 
57 

estate and insurance. He is also secretary of the Celtic Federal Savings & Loan Association, and takes a very active part in fraternal, i>o­litical and civic activities of the city. Leo has a remarkable family of nine children. The oldest son, Leo, Jr., was graduated from Notre Dame last June. 
"Tom Shanghnessy's sudden death on Sep­tember 20, was a shock to members of our class and to his host of fHends throughout the country. Father Hngh O'Donnell, vice-president of the University, and oar classmate. Father Patrick Dohui. of the Mission Band, represented the University at the funeraL Tom was one of a small group of alumni who reor­ganized the Notre Dame Club of Chicago after the World War, and he seni'ed as its president in 1920. The sympathy of our- class is ex­tended to his family. K. I. P." 
Tom Heam, out in Los Angeles, was re­cently pictured with Archbishop Cantwell when committee plans were in the making for a great membership campaign to be launched by the Holy Name societies of the archdiocese. 
1916 Secretary: Timothy P . Galvin, First Tmst Bldr., Hammond. Ind. 
1917 SccreUry: Edward J. McOsker, 104 
S. Union St . Elgin. HL 

1918 Secretary: John A. Lcmmer, 1110— 8th Are.. Escanaba, Michigan. 
2313 Secretary: Clarence Bader, 650 Pierce Street Gary, Indiana. 
192 0 Secretary: Leo B. Ward. 1012 Bhick BIdg.. Los Angeles, Calif, 
Oscar Seidenfaden, with his brother, BiU. of Los Angeles, were campus visitors for both the Illinois and the Carnegie Tech games. In between times they spent some time in the East. 
1921 Secretary; Dan W. Daffy, 1600 Ter­minal Tower, Cleveland. Ohio. 
192 2 SecreUry: Gerald Ashe, Buffalo Ath­
letic Clnb. Buffalo, New York 

Father George Scott of the Los Angeles archdiocese, with his mother called upon Prime Minister de Valera, as well as upon the presi­dent of Ireland, Dr. Douglas Hyde, when they traveled through the Continent and the British Isles following the Eucharistic Congress in Budapest This news item was xecently clipped from 'The Enniscorthy Guardian.* an Irish weekly, and sent to the ALUMNUS by Brother Aidan. &S. C '27. of New Orleans. 
South Bend Postmaster Bcmie McCaffety had a throat infection in early October which put him in St. Joseph hospital for several days. He was soon back on the job to handle his official and his unofficial duties. The lat­ter include the supplying of information to widely-spread persons who think that the South Bend postmaster ought to have all the dope on the Notre Dame football team. They're pretty smart, these persons, at that; Mr. Mc-Caffery has been seen spending some of his Saturday afternoons on the campus. 
1923 Secretary: Pan! H. Caatner, 17 Cor­nell Road, West Hartford, Conn. 
Prof. Gene Payton was the principal ^waker and John Sdiindler, '09. was the toastmaster at the Columbus Day observance of Mishawaka Council. Knights of Columbus. 
1924 Secretary: J. F. Hayes. Wm. J. Ped­lick and C c International Boildinr. Rockefeller Center^ New York City. 
Your New York pal and class secretary crashes through once again with some beau­tiful contributions, foreign and domestic: 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1938 
"Here is a resume of some of the letters received late last spring, which came too late for notice in the ALUMNUS and hojre this will reach you in time for the November issue. I also hope the information contained herein has not changed to any considerable extent since its receipt. 
"The last news from John P. McGoorty, Jr., of the firm of Downs, McGoorty & Howe, Chicago, was filled with interesting informa­tion. He reports that Tom Walsh married the sister of Paul Anderson and that there is a Tom, Jr., and Tom, Sr. is president and owner of a large loan company. "We hope Tom has a special modified investi­gating service for Notre Dame alumni. 
"Pat SuUi^*an is now practicing law with Tom Donovan- Pat is married, as is Tom, and there are several little SuUivans and Dono­

"Gcorge Barry, on last i eport, is assist­ant general counsel of the Borden-^\^eIand Dairy Company*. He married a sister of Bob Carey, class of '25, and McGoorty reports that his last information was there are three young Barri's. 
"Bill Drcnnan, *24, is practicing law, is married to a sister of Emroett Barkc, '22, and has one son. 
"Tom Long is with the American Steel and Wire Company in PittsburBh. Your corre­spondent seems to have some recollection of his marriage. Jack Lonff, twin-brother of Tom, is one of Chicago's leaders in the hotel management field, and is married. 
••Bruce Holmbcrg is married. The secretary would like to hear from Bruce. 
••John McGoorty would like to bear from Jim McSwecny of Wells\*ille, Ohio. 
"Now about John aicGoorty, himself. He is practicing law in the Conway Building with the associates noted above, is married, has three girls, and like your correspondent, has forsaken his old hobbies for domestic pastimes. 
"John also reports that Frank (Abe) BIc-Fadden, of the class of *25, is now in New York City ^vith his wife and son, Pat (Abe, Jr.) McFadden. Thank you, John, for. the news j*ou have sent. 
"J. R. Petrich sends a report that he is with the Northern States Power Company, at Montevideo, Minnesota, and that he has been with the same company since 1926. (Pet bemoans the loss of his class pin, and would appreciate information from the secretary of the Alumni Association if same can be replaced.) 
•'t*vi
 A, Geniesse is associated with Genicsse & Council, architects at 226 North Washington Street, Green Bay, "Wisconsin. He is married, and at the writing last spring had four children. His associate is John F. Connell, class of '23, who used to run far ahead of the writer of these notes in the old cross-country days at Notre Dame. John will remember that in those days the cross­country run was a 5% mile grind. Your secretary recalls it only too well, especially the last two miles. It was only in later years that the run was cut down to 3^^ miles, as I recall it, hiit that probably was because the newer generation did not produce men with the stamina of Connell and Hayes. 

•'If,
 in these notes, we report occasionally on the men of the class of '23 or class of *25, the secretaries of these classes can recip­rocate in their own notes. 


"I learn that Ed Casey of the class of 
FATHEB JOE EICK 
Versiis the Moneylenders. 
'24 has been a municipal court iudge in 
Chicago, w-ith a splendid record built up 
over the past eight or nine years. 
"Didc Griffin was also seen in Chicago by one of our under-cover agents, who reported that he is happily married and blessed with a family. 
"A welcome note from Dr. Harvey F-Brown, 4126 West McNichols Road, Detroit, brings us up to date with the information that he is a practicing physician at that address, is married, and has two boys; Har­vey, Jr., age five, and Thomas, age 1%. Harvey keeps in condition by taking regular squash workouts. I hope some of our crowd in Detroit will give Har\*ey a call now that they knoxv where he is located. 

"From far-oIT Peru, from Fernando L. de Romana, Box 98, Are^iuipa, Peru, South America, comes a note that Fernando is in business with his four brothers, in a sugar factory and that he and his brothers, besides owning the factory, have 2,300 acres of land in Tarabo valley. Fernando is married and is the proud father of four girls and two boys— is this a new^ record for '24? Fernando speaks of his stamp collecting hobby and his con­cluding paragraph is so interesting that I quote it in its entirety: 
" 'I collect stamps only till 1914 and have a collection of 12.000 stamps but my real hobby is Astronomy, now I am maldng a 12" mirror, I have started paraboliztion. I . took corona pictures of the solar eclipse of last year and had the good luck to get very good results. I worked as a volunteer for Harvard Obser\'atory, and from there they told me I have taken "four of the finest solar eclipse pictures we have ever seen." I should be very glad if I get in touch with Notre Dame amateur astronomers.' 
"I hope some of our amateur astronomers and amateur stamp collectors will be in touch with Fernando. 
"And two letters have been received from Bengal, India. One from Father Joe Rick and one from Father Larry Graner. I know that if all of us will take the time to drop an occasional letter to Father lUck and Father Graner, telling of their own activ­ities and any news of their classmates. Father Rict and Father Graner will greatly appreciate it. I am happy to give you their letters verbatim. 
Bhalubapara 
P. O. Munahirhal Mj/mensingh Bcngalf India Feb, SOth. *3a. 
Dear James: 
Could write j/ou some neias lots of times if there Vfos not so much going on. Some of it would be printable and other might not since the drive on racy literature. But things are primitive out here. I remember an old stick of a lady on the boat coming out to India^ asking me if I was not shocked at the low back dresses the women were wearing in the saloon, I answered, much to her consternation, that the place in which my mission was located in India the women not only wore nothing on the back but had nothing on the front. These Aboriginals have for many years been op­pressed right back to a mere vtarginal living by the money lenders and landholders. Some­thing was started just before / left for home and it had a real movement going when I got back 
Although placed out in the worst neck of the woods we have, I took a very active inter­est and, as a result, had a job offered to mo on the Upper House of the Bengal Legislative Assembly to.represent the Aboriginals of My­mcnsingk District, Bengal. Not anxious to hise my American status, I hesitated long enough for the Government to tell me that they were forced to withdraw the invitation 09 only British subjects were eligible for the job. So far no one has been appointed. 
There is a rumor also that my name has been sent to the Government for a position of Honorary Magistrate. Just what is behind this it is hard to say but Viink the Special Magis­trate who has been appointed to look into Vie complaints of the Aboriginals wants some help in setUing small cases. Here again is another difficulty, for I do not think it is the spirit of the Church to have its priests set up as eivU judges. I have referred this inatter to the highest tribunal in these parts, the Bishop. 
I have had a big fight with one of the most influential moneylenders in these parts. It cost me a hundred dollars but I hear he has spent a thousand. He had me against the wall for after winning some smaU court axscs against htm he sent a gang of people out into the land in dispute and buUt five houses on it, during the night. It meant that I had to repeat the process of evicting him all over again. But looking over tlie law books, 1 ran across an obscure point of law which cov­ered mi/ case, took it to the Government, and got the Magistrate to take it up on summary procedure without trial. I hear that the houses arc to be destroyed by the police tomorrow. This will mean a lot for the Mission, as the case got a lot of notice locally and in the Courts at Mymcnsingh. 

I wrote a light impression of my visit to the Empire State building. I shaU try to have Dad send you a copy. He found it a lot of fun to read, I can stUl sec you sitting across the table from me. What a difference, I have not seen a motor car since long before Christmas. 
Had forty Baptisms last Saturday. The Churdi grows. 
•Best of wishes. (Signed) J. M. Rick, C3.C, 
Catholic Mission 
P. O. Mymensingh Bengal, India, March U, 1938. 

Dear Jim: 
I am here in Mymensingh, the capital of Mymensingh District, which by the way is the largest district m all India. The Diocese of 
November, 1938 
Dacca eomprisca several large districts, but a 
• great deal, if not the largest part of OUT work, is being done in this one. Right now there are eight Holy Cross priests scattered over the district and we are aided hy five or six native ' priests, FATHER JOB BICK, of class of 'S4, is stationed about forty miles from here arid is doing a great job in the territory. With him 
is FATHER GEORCE PELLEGRIN, of the closs of *S8. FATHERS SWITALSKI, NORKAUER an d YOU?ia 
are also working in this district. With me here is FATHER PAUL SHEA of the daSS of *S7. FATHER JOHN KANE of the class of 'Si left India for America last December. No doubt' you toUl sec or hear of him there. 
This year makes the tenth since I left the 
V. S. for India and you may be sure that these ten years have been filled with almost every sort of experience. The politieal-reliaious situation in India right now is most interest­ing. This is due to the fact that there is taking place here today among the low caste people a decided movement atoay from Hindu­ism. As you may know, there are about 60 minion of these people in India and, although they have always been dissatisfied with the burden that their religion and society fiave placed upon them, stUl never were they able to -unite so solidly as at present. The question of these people abandoning; Hinduism and of becoming cither Mohammedan or Christian is one of the things that is -upsetting the leaders of Hinduism today. Gandhi ond the other recognized leaders are fuUy aware of the prob­lem and are doing everything they can to prevent the departure of these people from Hinduism. In the South of India the exodus has been growing rapidly whUe here in the Norths though it -was slower in starting, it ts well under way. Here in Mymensingh district we have severol million of these people and we are doing everything we can to cope with the situation and to take advantage of the opportunity. It is all that we can do to keep Cateehists supplied. Recently three large rfl­lages asked -us for teachers and scJiaols and wa have to find these teachers and supply the schools if we expect to convert these people. 
Cordially yours, (Sisaed) Lawrence Graner, C.S.C. 
"This concludes the proerram for the present. So many did not reply to my note of invita­tion for news that I feel I must, through this column, make another request. 
"I understand that we are havinc a 15-year reunion in June, 1939, and before that date rolls around I hope to have been in touch vnth, and heard from everyone in the class of *24, in reach of the mails. If I have overlooked any note sent to me, I hope the writer %viU get in touch with me because it has not been received. 
"Who hears from Charlie Robrecht, or Har­old Thompson, or Ed Thode, or Herb Reed, or Gene Noon, Gene Obcrst, or many others, in­cluding my old pal, John Gotuaco? And what has become of AI BirminKhom, Bill Asfa, or HttKh Blunt? 
192 5 Secretary: John P. Hurley, 2085 *•'*•*' Brookdale Road, Toleda. Ohio. 
John comes through again: "The old saying .. . 'if you want something done right ask the busy man to do it| . . . held good this month. I mailed out a dozen cards to some of the boys we haven't heard from and got one answer. The Honorable Vincent Harrington writes from "Washington, 'I'm so busy with the campaign in Iowa it's almost impossible to get enough time to think. I do see Chnck Carey from Mason City as well as Stan Comfort of the same city. My old roommate. Feed Shannon, is in charge of 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
this area as P.W.A. Engineer. Hope to see 
yon at the Minnesota-Notre Dame ^ame.* 
"Paul Dooley writes from Detroit: 

" 'The only *25ers hereabouts are Clarence Kaiser who is pushing Keichold Chemicals (synthetic resins—world's largest mfr.—home office and plant, Femdale, Michigan.) Clar^ ence's job seems to be travelling about to the laboratories of paint and ^-amish manufac­turers and showing their chemists how to alter their formulae to include the benefits of the resins after he and his fellow knights of the odorous test tubes have invented the resins themselves. Yes, sounds like nice work if you can get it, but Clarence loves it and the company prospers. The Kaisers have two children and a nice home a block from Father CoaghUn's shrine of the Little Flower in Royal Oak. Mrs, Kaiser was kind enough to assure me over the phone that she would use her influence toward having Clarence -write you.* 
" 'Gil Schaefcr continue to keep the front door open as an automobile dealer. That in itself seems to have teen something of an ac­complishment the past year. He tells me the customers are really going for the '39 Hud­sons, which is sweet music to all of our ears here in Detroit. Gil's wife, a former South Bend girl, and the two Schaefer children spent the summer past over on the Lake Michigan shore, so Gil got down that way often. Tells me Joe Hogan's interest in politics has carried 
. him to the job of secretary of the Republican State Committee of Indiana. Also that George Sheehe, who used to be here in De­troit, has the South Bend distribution office for the Sonotone hearing aids. Said he had recently bought a life insurance policy from Bill Httriey, who represents the Equitable Life in his home town. Saginaw. Gil says Bill is prosperous but still single.* 
" 'Called up Eddie Polhans, using your quest for news as the excuse for a very pleasant visit. Eddie is now assistant sales manager for the tractor division of Graham-Paige Motors. Although Sears-Roebuck stores are the principal retail outlet for Graham's trac­tors, there is growing a sizeable dealer organ­ization both here and abroad, all of which keeps our Eddie's nose pretty close to the old grindstone. Eddie mentioned that Duke Clancy, who used to be here in Detroit, is now back In Indianapolis with GMAC* 
" 'Met Hank Warzer here in town this sum­mer. Says his principal job is worrying, and he really has the gray hair to prove it. Schaefer also told me Eddie Lyons weighs 200 pounds, has three children and continues to worry about the service for Duplex Truck Co., Lansing, Michigan.' 
** 'Eddie Polhaus and Gil Schaefcr both said Dnt Griffin lives here. Seems he came out to solici t Graham business for Acme Fast Freight.* 
" 'I ran into Louis Norman, '28. He is ^vith GMAC in the Detroit office. Also saw Big Mac McCIamon, '28, on the street. He's vdth Traveler's Insurance. I have heard that Oiar­ley DeBarry and Frank Dnffiey, formerly De­trciters, are both in Washington with the post office department,* 
" 'Saw Joe Scalise in Cleveland sometime back. He was auditing for the Goodyear Rob­ber Company, %vith headquarters at the branch office on East Superior Street in downtown Cleveland.* 
" 'As for myself, I fear I don*t make very good copy. What with having to be a sales­man myself and having some thirty-odd other 
salesman to worry, about, the days don't aetm to have enoui^ boors to iwrmit doinx tba things I have to da Bans with th* Xl«etr»> lux Corporation neces^tates getting one's >yi-­tem geared up to thinking in terms of new sales records every month. Tbey say the pace either makes a man or brealcs him. Don't know -what it's going to do for me—but -who cares as long as the job's absoriiing enon^ to be fun.' 
" 'Met Fa«l and Mrs. Sagstcttcr on a cmiie boat this summer. When the boat stopped at Mackinac Island we bumped into Walter and Mrs. Metager. Had quite a little reunion -nfaieb w^as regrettably shortened by the boatfa vrhi^ tie. Wally told me he kept busy running the west branch of Bowman Dairy in Chicago; Mrs. Metzger said she was kept so busy "with their three children, that they sent the chil­dren off to summer camp, got a pinch hitter for Wally's "driver's-seat" and hiked off to Mackinac for a general vacation. Drove the Sagstetters to Fort Wayne on the way back. You're right. Sagstetter did sell me a set of tires for the old chariot. Boy, there is a sale^ man. You know, he runs the General Tirs. Branch in Fort Wayne.' 
" 'Stopped for a little visit also with Hcrm Centlivre. Aside from promoting Centlivre beer. Herm keeps busy with additions and re­finements to a nice new home on top of a hill. Herm and BIrs. C. and the three little Cent-liv*res all helped demonstrate the very latest gadgets.* 
" 'I saw Ray Cannlngluua the other day. hut I guess you are familiar with bis doings more than L Ray is here only in the fall and q>ring and we don't see as much of him as we'd all like to.' 
" 'So. John, there yon have it. Being still a bachelor all these vital statistics are m little out of my line, so in advance Vm establishing my alibi for all sins of omission as well as commission.* 
"Nice, going. Paul. Come agun." 
Two of the latest recipients of the Doc Sav­age Award, from the *Doc Savage Magazine,* are your pals and classmates, Toai Banr* di­rector of general publicity for the University, and ye olde alumni secretary, one Armitrong^ The awards are given for "a service of sacri­fice well performed and deserving of recogni* tion." Ask the boys to show yon their gold charms when next you are on the campus. John'Nanovi^ '30, is editor of the 1)00 Sav­age Magazine.' 
Tom has added to his duties in pubUdty. and in teaching in the Department of Jour­nalism, the business direction of the student publications. This work was formerly handled by one Dooley, managing editor of the ALDU­NUS. who is now in charge of the placement activities in the Alumni OfiHce and. temporary ily, also in charge of the ofi^ce of the Rockne Memorial Fund. 
192 6 SccnUty: Jaaca A. Ronan, 127 N. ^^ ^ Deaitein St., Odcmf, nUneis. 
Jake Parcel] had a session in London with Profs. Paal Fcnlon and Test BUdden when they were there this past summer on their trip through Europe. The profs., in fact, brought back as evidence a picture of Jake taken on the steps of the Constitntion Chib but, unfortunately for ALUMNUS readers, the old Jerseyite of '26 moved just as he was watching the birdie most intently. H e result is a gentle haze over the Pnrcell features. Jake has been in London for.three years, rep­resenting Ingersol Rand. By the -way, Pnrcell, how about some help for Bamam7 
The Notre Dame Alumnus November. 1938 
Al Johannes of South Bend was one of four Indiana attorneys recently admitted to prac­tice before the tTnited States Supreme Court. 
Elbert Sfahonej' is the newly elected visX' president of Ickes Advertisins Agency in In­dianapolis. 
A Konan never gives up, so here is our friend James A. Btill hard at wark on youse guys. How about a lift from Bert Dunne in the West and Lcs LovJcr in the East? 

'Illr. Dooley: "In accord with last month's promise wc scoured the stands at the Kansas game and at the Illinois game, seeking members of the class of 1926 who might furnish material for this ever-diminishing column. On the first Sat­urday we encountered Joe Kigali with two of his husky young sons. No doubt he was tell­ing the lads how the left end in 1924 and 1925 handled those big tackles of Nebraska and the Army. John Tuohy was with Joe. pointin;r out the wonders of Noire Dame to his nine-year-old nephew and namesake, John McBride. 
"At the IlJinois game we ran onto Art Bid-will, looking very fit despite his arduous cam­paigning as a candidate for the State Senate in the coming elections. Art was hurriedly munching a hot dog under the stands, but maintaining his senatorial drgnitj' withal. 
"Lea\*ing the stadium we spotted Joe Sex­ton, but before wc got close enough to hail him. he was lost in the crowd. From the dis­tance, however, Joe appeared as healthy and hrppy as ever. 
"A recent society wedding in Chicago makes Steve Pietrowicz and Tom Leahy members of the same family. Steve's sister-in-law married Tom's cousin. 
"We haven't heard from any of our East­ern correspondents for some time; and the 
•Westerners haven't been counted at all — so it's about time we got a little 'copy* by mail. Keep your fingers crossed, Bill." 
1927 Secretaries: Joseph SL Boland, Ath-Ictic Oifice. Notre Dame. Ind.; Ed­mund DeCIerq. 7129 So. Park Ave., Chicago. 
Van Wallace got down from Mt. Clemens, Michigan, for the Carnegie Tech game and, in his special coach, watched the play from a corner of the field. Parked nearby was the coach of Fred Snitc, '33, and the two boys bad a visit between halves when Van's machine Was driven over close to Fred. 
1Q28 Secretary: Louts F. Buckley, 1965 A.rA.o Biitmorc St. N.W.. Washington, D.C. 
That old flash. Dr. Buckley, flashes through Washington traffic with this: 
"I hope that Jack Wingerter does as good a job writing the column this month as he did sending the special Mass said by Father Gallagan for the deceased members of the class of '2S at the reunion last June. "V^Tiile speak­ing of Father Gallagan, I must mention that he is back at Notre Dame again. I know this will be good news for his many '28 friends 
•who hope to \-isit the campus this year. 
"Bill Jones, Carl Christiansen. *31, and I attended a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Washington a week ago. hoping that we would meet some *2S men. The only person 
 met whom the '2Sers will remember was Dare Lehman who is now secretary to Sen­ator E. C. Johnson of Colorado. It is the first time I have seen Dave since 1928. I under­stand that Joe Montcdonico is here is Wash­ington with a utility company. 
"My '2S mail was as meager as usual. I had an announcement, however, from Jim AUan informing me of the birth of James Allah n i on September 9. Jim's address is 1423 Fargo Avenue, Chicago. Congratulations, Jim. 
"Bob Hamilton is selected to wTite this col­umn for the December issue. I understand that Bob has been doing some fine work as secretary of the New York Club. No doubt he will have a lot of news for us after the reunion which he has planned for the night before the Army game. Room 1000, 63 Wall Street, New York City, is his address. Your copy is due at the Alumni OfHce November 20, Bob." 
The march of time almost caught up with "Iilarcb of Time" Wingerter but he airmailed in with this at the last moment: 
"I trust that this copy reaches you in time to avoid having the 'personals' for the class of 192S, a complete blank except for the name and address of Louis Buckley* Such is the outlook, according to a card I received from Louis, if I don't produce some notes. Per­haps I should first explain my seeming negli­gence. My deadline is October 20. Today is October 20 .and I just stepped off a boat from New Orleans two hours ago, having been away a month. 
"Now for what few facts I have. Obviously, the high spot was the June reunion, culminat­ing in the smoker. Having missed our Fifth, and having pointed for the Tenth for several years. I was afraid of an emotional let-down or disappointment. However, the realization far out-did the anticipation. Thanks for which are due the committee, and to Lonis Buckley for keeping the '28 spirit alive since graduation. I personally wish to thank him and am certain that all those who were back feel the same. 
"Russ Riley, of Orange, having taken an in­active, informal part in his city's affairs for several years, decided this spring that its poli­tics needed cleaning. In the elections, he led the entire state, declined the mayoralty, instead chose a less conspicuous commissionship, thereby winning desen-cd applause for level headedness. (Orange population—1936—35,000 or more.) Russ, an orchid. 
"John Winberrj-, of Rutherford, is a silver thatched and tongued lawyer. See him fre­quently at Notre Dame meetings. Wonder if he has lost a criminal case yet, 
"Tom, PurccH is also a lawyer, practicing in New Yorl:. 
"William 'Wee' Brown, of Orange, is mar­ried and blessed a couple of times, X under­stand. Unfortunately, I don't get to see him ver>- often. 
"Dick Hinchcliffe, of Paterson, is also a law­yer, I believe. 
"Tony Ceres, of Perth Amboy. is teaching school. The above conclude New Jersey's class of 1928. Tell Bnrkley that since no member of our class heeded the ALUMNUS appeal to drop one a line with salient facts, all of xay notes must be based on personal knowledge. 

"Jim Cullen. of Sayre. Pennsj'lvania, is chairman of his county party. Saw him in his native habitat several times this summer. His golf is fair, but his law ofHces are sumptuous. 
"Jack Sheedy and I had an old fashioned Sorin 'session* on the train as far as Pitts­burgh, after the reunion. We continued it as far as the Sheedy breakfast table. He has a charming wife and family. 
"I am afraid that you won't be able to pick much meat from my letter. I regret ibis. but my work is such that I have little time to myself, and hence do not e^t to see many of the fellows. (Big news in our family was brother Wink's (*26) marriage in Portland. Oregon, on October 4, to the sister of Norb KavanauKh, '26. I have just returned from the wedding, by way of California, Texas, and Louisiana. 
"My apologies to you and to the class of '28 for this famine of facts," 
Prof. Bill Downey, M,A. '28. was the speaker on October 24 before the Catholic Forum of South Bend. His subject was "Private Prop­erty on Trial." Leo "Dutch" Ricdcr, '23, South Bend attorney, is the secretary and chief exec­utive officer of the Forum this year. 
1929 Secretary: Joseph p . McKamara. At­
torney Gen. Office. Indianapolis, Ind. 
Extra! Extra! McNamara breaks loose 
again! Read all about it! 
"Floating in on the sweet southern breeze came this message from James R. Nowery, of Shreveport, Louisiana: 
" 'Since I got out of school. I have met Notre Dame men from every part of the country. This is not strange, since I have worked as a roughneck in Louisiana, a pipe-liner in Illinois, Missouri. Texas and Louisi­ana, an oil field scout in Pennsylvania, and have been occupied in various departments of the oil and gas business, such as gas meas­urement, field clerical work, maintenance crew foreman, field lines department, inspector on pipelines in various capacities, to name a few. Among the Notre Dame men I have seen are Mart Cnllinan, of Laredo, Texas; Charles W. Crockett, of Alexandria, Louisiana; Phil Jacobs, of Alexandria, Ix)uisiana: and George Pope, of Jonesi'ille, Louisiana. I have heard that Joseph E. McKean is in Boston. S. I. "Gene" Carlton was living in San Antonio, Texas, studying medicine, and by now is a full fledged doctor. Also hear frequently of Charles D. Jones, who is a lieutenant in the Aviation Sen-ice at Barksdale Field, at Shreveport. He is highly respected in every department of the service in which he has worked, and seems to be slated for promotion if and when Congress gets around to it. 
"'Charlie Crockett and Phil Jacobs are with the Guaranty Trust Company of Alex­andria. Louisiana. Art Carmody and Mike Carmody are prosperous lease and royalty men in this area. Fred Carmody is working in the drilling department as a petroleum engineer for the Union Producing Company, at Vtvial. Louisiana. Ted Carmody is in the land and lease department of the Standard Oil Com­pany. Bob Hunter is a promising attorney in this area. Art I^ne is advertising manager of the Southwestern Gas and. Electric Cbm­pany, at Shreveport. Don Laskcy is head of the legal department of Belchic and Laskey-Enterprises in Teaxs, Oklahoma, Arkansas and Louisiana. Vic Martze] is the warehouse su­perintendent for the United Gas Pipeline Com­pany, Sireveport. James G. Cowles is a rising attorney. Jack Csplis is a planter and re­tailer of farm machinery, and Bill Caplis is located here at Shreveport. M. J, Grogan Is connected with the Grogan Oil Company, Shreveport. and is well thought of by M. J. Grogan. president of the company, who is not related to him. A! (Golf) Slailhes Is a sales­man for the Grogan Oil Company. 
" 'In the southwestern part of the state of 

November, 1938 The Notre.Dame Alumnus 
liOuisiana, vre find Bill Bradshaw is a me­chanical engineer connected with the Union Gulf Sulphur Company of Lake Charles. Frank Taylor, as usual, is makinf: money in various capacities. Bcmie Bird is connected Tvith the Magnolia Petroleum Company, at Lake Charles: F. D. (Bush) Rolwing is work­ing for a large insurance company in Shreve­port. 
" 'My brother. Jack, is located at Beeville, Texas. He is assistant district land-man for the Union Producing Company. He is the father of a nine-and-one-half-pound boy bom during the holidays of 1937. This makes a girl and a boy for Jack. 
" 'Howard Doll is in Chicago with the Gen­eral Electric Company. Bill Jasper is in New York, slated to go to South America for the International Harvester Company. I under­stand he has a very good job with this organ­ization. I saw Larry (Moon) Mnllins the other day here at Shreveport. He is athletic director of Loyola University at New Orleans. He is well satisfied with his Job. and is very well liked in that community. 
" 'We have organized a Notre Dame Club in this area, and have had two meetings, one of which was held on Universal Notre Dame Night, and the other right before the holidays. Art Kane is president, and "yours truly" is secretary-treasurer. The only by-law we have is one requiring every member to pay his alumnus dues, which very few have done to date. We have a very nice crowd, and we do not restrict the meetings to alumni. The meet­ings are for alumni and their friends, and so far the efforts have been very successful, and a good time had by all. We, of this area, are more or less segregated from the rest of the United States, but I have had occasion to see Horace Spiller, and Tommy Green, who is employed as county attorney at Conroe. Texas. I heard that George Jcwett was in California on some big government dam project, 
" 'I have also seen William E. (Pinkey) Casstdy. Leonard Nalty and his brother in the Cojun country here in Louisiana, as well as Cyp Sporl at New Orleans, and Frank (Little Red) David and Dink Hcnncssy over at Vicksburg. 
" 'As for myself, I am now in the drilling contracting business, that is. the drilling of deep oil and gas wells in northern Louisiana and Texas. I have been in this business for over two 3'ears, and have been lucky enough to prosper. I have two big drilling rigs, and employ about 35 people. We have drilled and successfully completed 28 wells to 6,000 feet. We are located at P.O. Box 1545, and operate under my name. I am the proud father of a two-year-old son who, judging from such characteristics as build, color of eyes and hair, and devilment, will be a worthy prospect for the University of Notre Dame in the year 1954, approximately. 
" 'I wish you would inform Bill Kreig. Frank McCarthy, Bob Kirby, et al., that I hear and think of them quite often, and that I would like to see them some time. I would like to hear from you with regard to John A. Smith, of Chicago, John V. Smith .of Albany, New York, Doc (Sylvester J.) Dougherty, of Steubenvillc, Ohio, Charles Colton, and others of our class from whom I have not heard since we finished school. 
" 'I hope this letter will fill the requirements with reference to information which you think would be interesting to the other members of 
the clnss.* 
"Flash: Did you know that John V. Hinkel. of 'Scholastic' fame, has been covering the Spanish front as special correspondent for the New York Times? The October issue of 'The New York Alumnus' offers as the feature of the New York Club's October *I meeting a lecture by John on "The Spanish Tangle— illustrated with uncensored movies!" 
"Walter J. (Bud) McMorrow, having made the Notre Dame Club retreat at Bishop Mol­loy's Retreat House in Jamaica in September, evidently decided to keep up the good work, and fon.varded the following interesting batch of news: 
" 'You were right, I did succumb to the lures of the fair sex. I fell as the "wise guy," like you and many others who were sworn, in­vincible and airtight bachelors. Amen. 
" 'There is an old saying, "Girls are like telephone numbers: you always get the wrong one." I ana pleased to say that I have been fortunate enough to be an exception to the rule. Have been married now for six and a hal f years, and they have been extremely happy and full years. And as for "reason­ably accurate facsimiles," number three ar­rived the nt h of last December. The oldest is Walter J., Jr., five and one half years, number two is Charles John, three and one half years in March, number three is Kevin, named after a favorite.Irish Saint. Not bad, eh? 
" 'I made the retreat with the Notre Dame Club of New York, and. Joe. it was great. It was over the week-end of September 16, 17 and IS, with 44 alumni participating. It was conducted at Bishop Molloy's Retreat House, a Passionist Monastery, at Jamaica. New York. To be brief, it was invaluable mentally, the food was excellent, and it was a real treat to get together with some of the boys for an old-time bull session—and what a bull session. 
" 'Saw Walter Greer there, Joe, and he wishes to be remembered to you. Walter is very much married, and has quite the job with the Tung-Sol Co., manufacturers of elec­tric bulbs and radio tubes. Walter has no children to start bragging about, but I sup­pose we should give him a break; he's mar­ried only a year. 
"Knocked around a bit with Bill Doyle. He is in very fine shape* Suppose that's because he's a wise guy and stayed single. 
" *Henr>- Frey was very much there, and the same old Henry—a load of fun. Henry, I believe, is a lawyer and in the real estate business in the Bronx. It certainly was nice seeing him. 
" *Was very glad to see Bill Cronin there. If you'll remember. Bill and I had a great hitch hike trip from Notre Dame to New York City. We had a very pleasant time talldng over old times. Particularly about his almost getting us tossed out of a Seventh Day Ad­ventist Camp. 
" 'Big Dick Donoghue and Bob Hamilton were there. Dick was master of ceremonies, and Hamilton the "wolf,'* — and what a "wolf." 
" 'Give my best regards to Bill Krieg, Bill Craig and Bud Markcy, if you see them. Would be interested to hear something about them.' " 
Tom McNichoIas and his family were South Bend visitors this past summer, according to information just received from one of the best ALUMNUS scouts. Tom after some years in Baltimore and a spell up in Bronson, Mich­igan, is now secretary-treasurer of Nashville Newspapers, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, pub­lisher of 'The Nashville Tenncsean,' morning and Sunday, (adv.) 
fO'SA Secretary: BoWrt Hdlmv . Hum­^ ^ baldt Bidv.. St. LMis, MisaMrL 
Taking time out from recording St. Louis tonsils, your secretary writes as follows: 
"It wasn't quite clear to me a month ago as to why Bcmie Conroy relinquished this job as secretary for the class of '30. Now it is dawning on me. I received an invitation from Mr. and Mrs. Elmer A. Gardlock inviUng me to be present at the marriage of their daugh­ter, Gertrude Elizabeth, to the esteemable Mr. Bernard William Conroy. on Wednesday, Octo­ber 26. 
"It will be impossible for me to attend the ceremony, but I am sure -that the class of '30 will be represented, and those who do attend can throw rice and kiss the bride for the rest of us. 
"The class of '30 wishes also to congratu­late Jim Armstronc upon the arrival of a fourth son. Jim always did want a complete backfield. 
"Note to editors: The last ALUMNUS was received only five days ago, and here we are at the deadline for the next issue. Yon didn't give the 'thirties* much time to sit down and write me as invited in my last letter. Con­sequently, please cancel the. reservation for a full page. 
"The full page article can be expected for netx month, with Warren Fosel reporting the news of the men of '30 who will b3 in New York for the Army game and reunion at the Hotel Pennsylvania, and with the news in the letters I expect to receive in the meantime from fellows elsewhere. 
"For this issue. I can give you reports of men in our class in St. Louis. 
"Gene KiUoren, who started in A.B. and graduated in Commerce, has just completed a course in Law at the City College in St. Louis, and we are all wishing him the best of luck with his state bar exam. Gene is expected to hang out his shingle ^rith that of his father. Judge William KiUoren. Gene is still among our eligible bachelors, and has beeen selling rock wool insulation for the Gimco Insulation Company. 
"Dave RieUey, who was graduated in Com­merce, and was a member of the Commerce Forum at Notre Dame, has recently left the Metropolitan St. 'Louis Company, for whom he sold stocks and bonds, to take a job with the Graham Paper Company of St. Louis. Dave will represent the Graham Company in Denver. Colorado. He can now be addressed at 1131 Monroe Street, Denver. Colorado, and, if you are out that way, stop in and meet Mrs. Rtelley and the two children. Dave was one of the best secretaries the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis ever had, and we certainly miss him ... be gorra. ' 
"Freddie Zimmerman, who studied chemical engineering and graduated as a Bachelor of Science, is now managing the Schwartz Truck Terminal Incorporated, of St. Louis. Freddie lives in Alton. Illinois, at 503a Henry Street, and hauls himself 20 miles to and from St. Louts every day. He has been married a year and a half, and they haven't appeared in Wtn­chell's column yet, 
"Pat McLanghlin. A.B. 1930. of Quincy. Illi­nois, is. now travelling over half of Ifissourt and half of Illinois, proving to the world that stocks and bonds can be sold even during these depression times. He is with Preiss-Wibbing and Company, of 319 North Fourth Street, in St. Louis. Pat has not yet visited the little Log Chapel by the Lake. Incidentally. Pat hasn't touched a murical instrument since he relinquished his job as vice-president of the 
Notre Dame Band . . . but he does take in a symphony occasionally. 
*^an Weldioni, though not in St. XJOUIS, and not in Hutchinson, Kansas, -whence he hailed, is with the Ottawa "SVholesale Grocery Company, of Ottawa, Kansas, and doing a very good job, we understand. Dan's experi­ence as a member of the Blue Circle, the Commerce Forum, and the Monogram Club, as well as secretary and treasurer of this class of ours at different times, gives him an excellent background for the position he now holds as secretary of the Notre Dame Club of Kansas. However, he has probably been too busy writing up orders for groceries, to give us any news in the ALUMNUS of the Notre Dame activities in Kansas. Mr. and Mrs. Welchons boast of a yearling, and we are carious to know if the little dear is a pros-I)ect for St. Mary's, or a high-jumper for Notre Dame. 
"Your new secretary has formed an 'Amos *n Andy' corpolatlon, with Mr. and Mrs. as stockholders, holding jobs of president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer. The name of the company is the St. Louis Medical Credit Bureau, Incorporated, located in the Humboldt Building, St. Louis, Missouri. This little or­ganlzaUon celebrated its seventh anniversary last Thursday, October 13, and now boasts of eght employees, and is ofTcially endorsed by the medical and dental societies of St. Louis. So 'elp me, it's true, true as the old saying, 'Work diligently eight hours a day hut don't worry, and soon you'll be boss; then you can work 16 hours a day and have all the worry.* 
'T>id I hear somebody say 'And how's the family?' We are both fine, thank you, and we'll be seein' you next month." 
193 1 Secretary: John Bergan, 838 E. Col­fax Ave., South Bend, Ind. 
Hie autumn heat apparently got the boys this time. John has only the following to re­port: 
"Hie Illinois game brought a number of the class to the campus. Among those seen were Father Bonrke Blotsett, the genial assistant pastor of the Visitation Church, Kewanee, Illinois, Tom Monahan, the Areola broomcom broker. Mart Downey, the Chicago unemploy­ment compensation counselor, Ben Oakes, Windy City travel bureau expert, and Dick Baker. Kalamazoo educator. 
"Hie Atlanta party on the eve of the Georgia Tech game was a huge success and most of the class in the region had a great time. Ralph Dalton has returned to his na­tive Bloomington after a summer spent in Pittsburgh in the interests of the 7-Up Co. It's a boy in the home of the Ward O'Con­nors in Bayonne, New Jersey. 
"Lonie Godoy, up from Havana for the Illi­nois game, reports that the sugar crop and harvest has been keeping him very busy and his %'isit on the trampus was his first in eight years. Frank Brown, the Pennville Black­stone, is another member of the class who as­pires to public office in the November elec­tions. Our best wishes to Frank, Tom Can­non, Frank Kopinski and the other aspirants of the class in the elections of November 8. Anitie Boyle was quite a busy person during the time of the National Eucharistic Congress held last month in New Orleans. It was he who handled most of the AP releases from the rity on the Congress." 
Emil Tclfel has moved from Clarke College, Dnbuque, Iowa, to Loyola, New Orleans, where, with Larry Hnllins, he is helping to publicize the school through a college news bureau and. 
in addition, is temirorarily directing* the courses in journalism. 
193 2 Secretary: Herbert Giorfio, 9H5 lU A Street. HolIi«, L. L, New Yoric. Bill Hewitt is now an engraving salesman for the Boncraft Corporation, 2242 Grove Street, Chicago. Bill reimrted on a recent visit to the campus—and the same dope also came from Maestro Petrifz—that Bob German has a handsome new job as general advertising manager of the Local Loan Company, Chicago. Bob formerly was advertising manager for the Ditto outfit in Chicago. 
Here is some much welcomed news from Herb Giorgio: 
"It's a long time between reports, but this time I have a little news: 
"Jack HathewB of Chicago is in Seattle with the Hyman-Michaels Company; Flo McCartky is still with the Local Loan Company in New York; Bill Murphy is practicing law in his home town in New Jersey; Jack Hogan is in San Francisco with the Hyman-Michaels Com* pany; Bndd Dyniewicz, married and a daddy, is with the Deep Rock Oil Company in De­catur, Illinois. 
"Jack Gcddes is with the Pure Oil Company in South Kearney, New Jersey, having worked lately in Parkersburg, West Virginia. Tom Duffy is running the Kendall Financing Com­pany in Chicago. Paul OToole is still selling Chicago back to the Indians. Fran and Dick Oelerich are still in the same business, are married and have children. Jim Collins is in Indianapolis, as is Larry Sexton. Jack Jer­dan and Paul Howe are with the Treasury Department in New York City. Frank O'Kane is practicing law in New York, as are Leo HcLaagfalin, Larry Darrow. Myles HnUen and myself. Joe Jadce is doing the same in Dixon, Illinois. 
"Jim O'Connor is working in Boston. Mas­sachusetts. Ed O'Connor is with the Internal Revenue Department. Walter Noonan is work­ing in Springfield, Massachusetts. Ed KMntx is managing a Vanderbilt farm in Asheville, North Carolina. Ed O'Mahoney is with a rub­ber company in Bridgeport, Connecticut. Tom Tarasovic is practicing medicine in Bridge­port, Connecticut. Bill Murray is with the Catholic Charities in Hartford, Connecticut. Larry Darrow has a baby daughter. Frank Donalty has several children in Utica. Wee Harrington is a lawyer in Carteret, New Jer­sey. John Ihlatonsek, married to Marybelle Denny, is living in Cleveland. Dr. BCke Cnw­ford is practicing in Cleveland. John Collins is active in the Cleveland alumni club. 
"John Connolly is in politics in Toledo. Frank Madden is still on the Jersey City pay­roll, and Sol Bontempo is on the Newark payroll. Frank Denny is in the advertising game in Seattle, Washington. Jim Igoe is in the printing business in Chicago. Some Chi­cago lawyers are George Higgins, Jim O'Shaughnessy.. Ed Mclchione and Walt Kiol­basa — the latter was recently married. Arch Donoghne is married. Doc AIcNamee, ex. *32, is married, living in Parkersburg, West Vir­ginia, and has a baby daughter. Jade Hamil­ton is married, and working at the University of Michigan. Don KiUian is with da Pont in New Jersey. Tom McKevitt. Bill Newbold. Clay Johnson et al are in Washington work­ing for Uncle Sam." 
193 3 Secretary: Donald Wise, 110 Pleasant Street JoUet. Illinois. 
Professor Froning brings the welcome word that Bill Fl]mn is progressing remarkably in Saa Franrisco journalism. He was recently the editor of the golden jubilee edition of The Scoop,' annual publication of the Press Club of San Francisco, 449 Powell Street. 
103 4 Sccretaiy: James Moscow, 2320 North 
* Lawndale Av e CUcage. IlUnoU 
Comes this volume of delicious stuff ^om Ed Bforan. Tyne Co., 3212 W. Hllmore St. Chicago: 
"I stopped in your office during the summer months to pay my alumni dues and thought I might see you around and pass on a little news about some of the old cronies of 1934. Sorry I missed you. but here is a little infor­mation about those I remember seeing dtiring the last two years. It so happens that I have been traveling during most of that time, sell­ing steep pipe for the TVne Co., who are dis­tributors of Jones & Laughlin steel products. I have been through every state east of the Mis^ssippi and most of the Southwest. Also made a few visits into itarts of Canada and Mexico. 
"Johnny filaher is now general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates, members of the Na­tional Profes^onal Football League. He is also badness manager for the St. Louis Browns of the American League. 
"Norh ICzerslci is married and working for Crane Company of Chicago. 
"John Hngfa GaUagher. the Irish thrush from Donegal, Ireland, is now living in Chi­cago and working for the Belmont Radio Corporation. 
"Don Allen is selling insurance. Fritz Weidner is doing fine at Sears, Roebuck & Co. in the advertising department. 
"Saw Jack Flynn in Quincy. Illinois. Runs the Coca Cola Bottling Works. Dave Walsh is connected with the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Bad Kramer is living in Peoria and has charge of the Peoria ofHce for Dun & Bradstreet. 
"Art Conley is working for his father in Canton. Ohio, and you can reach him at M. Conley Company. Bob Kolb is in the printing business in Akron, Ohio. 
"On one of my trips to Cleveland I met Wajme Hillner who is playing with the Wash­ington Redskins. We went out to see Tom Conley and Frank GanI at John Carroll. They expected to have a strong team this fall. 
"Bob Bntler is working for United AJr lanes in Cleveland. Vincent Hnrphy and John Venables were selling stocks the last I heard. Ralph Holler, Otty Cemey. and Ed Googh are bankers in Cleveland. 
"You can reach Bob Van Lahr at the Provident Savings Bank & Trust Co.. 4th and Main Streets, Cincinnati. Then at 4th and Main Streets in Louisville, Kentucky, you can reach Bossell Leonard, who is working for the Frankfort Distilling Company. 
"Qiarley Schwartzel is with New Albany Box Company, New Albany, Indiana. 
"Don Dixon is doing fine as an attorney in Cincinnati. Jack Meuter has his new law office in Covington, Kentucky, just across the river. Bob Cassidy is doing fine with Babodie Paper Box Company, CincinnatL 
"Norman Duke has of^ces in first National Bank Building in LaPorte, Indiana. 
"Tommy 'Flagpole* Grimes is residing in Niles, Michigan, and working with the Kaw­neer Company in that city. 
"Harry W. Black is a bookkeeper with the 

C.C.C. Trucking Company, in Cleveland, Ohio. 
November, .1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
"On my last trip to New York I saw Joe Hanratty and Gilbert Coyne of Cleveland in Ross* Tavern. 
"Encountered John McNemey of Elgin. Illinois, in the Allerton Hotel lobhy in Cleve­land. He just dropped In to town with his sister who was registering at Western Re­serve post graduate school. As far as I can learn. John Trestle is still connected with the Illinois Bell Telephone Company. 
**Stacy Van Petten is connected with the United States Postal Department with head­quarters in Chicago. I wonder if Stacy is still proud of the fact of being president of the 'Bad Head Club,* composed of long-dis­tance track men, viz. Tom Grimes, Eddie Kinff, Leo McFarland, Jim McDcvitt, Ray Troy and yours truly. Whitcy Bloemsma and Jack Quirk are still employed by Jack*s father. 
"Dropped in at Al Grisanti'a (*31) X^ke Side Club at 12th and St. Clair, Cleveland, last month. Met Bob Colgan and Eddie Goneh. As a meeting place for N. D. men, Al's place compares with Ross' of New York. 
"Maurice J. Cnrran will properly see that the boys who own a home or intend to build will have a roof that will withstand the fierc­est elements. He sells roofing for his father's firm in Chicago. 
"Bob Hamilton is workinE for Dunmore Company, Racine, Wisconsin. Gerald Mac-Peak is keeping busy in the o^ices of the Commercial Credit Company. Buffalo, New York. Jerry was married last Thanksgiving. 
"While viewing the sights of the beautiful southern metropolis of New Orleans. I crossed paths with Harold SporL Edward Weinheimer is working for Great Lake's Steel Company in Detroit. Last time I saw John Wolfe he was running a fruit market in Waterloo. Iowa­
"Would like to thank Fay and Louie Crcgo for their Christmas cards. Sorry I missed them while in Utica this summer. Ralph Else can be reached at the Worthington Pump Co., Buffalo. New York. Bob Hughes is in the paint business in Lansing, Michigan- Red Kenefake is connected with the General Elec­tric in Schenectady, New York. 
"Saw John Birch, of Maywood, Illinois, at the Chicago club breakfast last spring. Hugh 
B. O'Ncil, of Cumberland. Maryland, is now living in Chicago, where he studied medicine at Northwestern University. John Banks is with Local Loan Company, Chicago, with of­fices in the Loop. 

"Leo McFarland is now athletic director of St. Mary*s high school, Lansing, Michigan. His cross-country team, which was the first in the histori- of the school, won the state championship last year, and his basketball team was defeated only in the finals of the state championship. Good work, Leo I 
"Al Heigcl is working for General Electric in Fort Wayne, Indiana. 
"On last visit to New York, I saw Frank Palmisani at 42nd & Broadway. Frank hnsn*t forgotten his baseball. 

"Hal Stine, of Kansas City, Missouri, is now working for DuPont Company, Flint. Michi­gan. Ed Kerns can be located at Michigan Bean Company, Chesaning, Michis^n, and his brother. Art, is an insurance broker in Sag­inaw, Michigan. Bob Bernard, the reliable quarter miler, is associated with Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Neenah, Wisconsin. Bob spends his time in the research laboratories. 
"Bill Frisdii is associated with Ravarino & Fresch Company. Kings Highway, St. Ixiuis, Missouri. Gene J. Kennedy can be reached at the NBC, Radio City, New York. 
"Connor Cronnin. when I last saw him, was working with Swift Company, New York. When in Newport News, Virginia, I enioyed a pleasant visit with Jack Donly. Jack is as­sociated with General Motors in their Rich­mond, Virginia, office- Bill Walsh, of Phila­delphia, is working for the Bell Telephone Company in the Quaker City. Tom O'Heara has followed in the footsteps of his father and is practicing law In West Bend, Wiscon­sin. 
"D. Schnabel is now residing in Wisconsin Rapids. Bill Higgins ('36) is manager of Sears, Roebuck & Co. in Racine, Wisconsin. Together with John Gallagher we witnessed tho defeat of the strong St. Philip*s high school team at the hands of Weber High School team coached by Andy PUney. Con­gratulated Andy on his victory. 
"Met Moose Krause on Michigan Boulevard, Chicago. Was optimistic about his football team this season at St. Mary's. Winona, Min­nesota. 
"Spent a very pleasant weed-end last spring with Jim Gilfoil on his plantation at Omega, Louisiana. The main attraction of my visit was a trip do^vn the Mississippi on a floating house. Visited with Jack Bray in his insur­ance offices in Faducah. Kentucky. While driving thorugh Yazoo City, Mississippi. I looked for. but failed to find, Sam Nicholas. Hope to catch you next time, Sam. 
"There are others whom I have seen but at the present writing I am forced to omit, but will cover at a future date." 
A! Phancuf, after an e:ctra year on the campus in 1937-38. is down in St. Louis now working in the Children's Department of the Catholic Charities. His duties include respon­sibility for admission and discharge in t%vo orphan' boys* homes, supervising a program of activities for the homes and multidinous other things. Al reports a warm reception from the Notre Dame boys in St. Louis and he is en­thusiastic about the work and city. 
193 5 Secretary: Franklyn C. Hodirclter, 610 Rodd street. Midland, Middjan, 
Hoch wrote this just before taking the daily freight out of Midland for the Carnegie game: 
"We had just about given up an hope of a column for November when along came two welcome missives — from Ed Van Haisseling and Tom Proctor. As it is we shall have the shortest contribution since we took over this job in October, 1933. How about it gang — do we join the class of 1S80 or do we compete with the three-page entry of 19387 It's up to you, and don't forget, the editors are giiang us smaller print this year — that means more dope to fill the page we always had. We know we can do it if you will cooperate. 
"But to our mail! Congratulations are in order for the Oak Park blonde. Ed Van Hnis­scling is now a husband. The date — July 12 last. The place — Elmhurst. Illinois, the home town. The victim — Miss Matit Buhr, who succumbed after 2% years of male per­sistence. The best man — Harold Kohlman, one of us and also from Elmhurst. To you both, Ed, our personal 'lotsa of the hesta,* and from the class — felicitations! Ed is still with Felt & Tarrant Manufacturing Company. They make the well known comptometer. But Ed has a change in departments since joining forces with the outfit. He used to be in the Accounting department, but now is holding dovm the Foreign department. A tremendous foreign bnnnesa makes his work very inter­esting, he writes. 
"Van passes on little info that we nusaed some months ago. So here it comes — Ja«ca 
L. SnUiTUi, of Terre Hante* was married to Miss Helen Mann, of Elmhnrst, Hlincds, on March 20, 1937. Van was the best man and the 'killing* took place at the Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. Jim has more than m wedding upon which to be complimented — he is now a father. James SnUivan. Jr., was on the door step on Jnly 14 of this year. An­other Notre Dame man. Jim? 
"While ridine on the *V one momins Van ran into Johnny Gross who. thoos^ he did not divulge it. is reputed to be employed as a hank examiner, or words to that effect. How about it. John? 
"Rambling around the Loop a couple months ago Van bumped into D m Vanravet* who earns his daily bread in a lawyer's ofitice around Randolph Street. To quote Van — 'he hasn*t changed a bit.* 
"Van sends out an SOS via the column for a word from J. Dncsn CarUne and Joe BnccL We*ll go along viith that Van and ask them both to send Xis a carbon copy. 
"Tom's was just a note but personally most interesting. One item 'roomit* — 'we no catchum knowledge on where leather Notre Dame cushion is — looks like the oftiee chur will remain chilly — sorry.' 
"Going through the 'marriages* column of the October number, we found heaps of poten­tial fathers of future N. D. men, and we be­lieve they all deserve a blow in.the class sheet. So here goes — 
"Bob Carter and Theresa McGovem took things over in Jersey on June 4. Kay Gercnd. ex. '35, married Gertrude Reinl in Sheboygan. Wisconsin, last July 9. Pa«l Halbert went to the altar with Marian Hanlon in Weedsiwrt, New York on September 3- Bill Kennedy. that's it, Brooklyn Bill of the "Eagle,' fooled the crowd by taldng the steps with Ave Marie Ottman down across the Hudson last June 
25. Jim Manhn up and got himself a wife in Glorai Kay Schaefer in Pittsburgh on Au­gust 20. CSene O'Brien, Joe Caaasanta's hum­ming bird, marched up the aisle irfth Mary Ellen Chrisman in South Bend, September 24. Ed Ott. ex. *35, did the trick in the Log Chapel last July 25 when he d^med Sadie Putnam. Jade Balney. *oar Jack.' came all the way out to the Log Chapel last Jnne and didn*t leave -until he took away with him Eliz­abeth Ann Putnam- Dan Yumgeiman suc­cumbed, too. when the Log Chapel claimed his as eligible for Dorothy Frances Walsh on August 6. 
"That's really a roster if we ever saw one! Wonder when we*U get around to joining It? At least we won't be able to complun that it was untried before we hit it. But we have one further peg to go before closing out the felicitations gags — a huge "hurrah" goes in for Jim Armstrong, the proud father of his fourth son, Gregory. The day — September 4. 
"To the parents of Didc Meier we want to extend personal and class condolences. Though Dick Was not one of ns, he was known and liked by many of ns, especially those of '35 who debated. Dick died Sunday. October 9. He had been ill for some time. The Varsity Debaters of the class of *35 will never forget his wit. his alacrity, his foren!de abilty or his real friendship. It was valued by^ all who knew him." 
Bin laUs, the dashinff campus artist of other days, reports that he has coached junior 

64 The Notre Dame Alumnus November, 1938 
high school in Brokline, Massachusetts, ever since he left Notre Dame, with the splendid record, when he wrote, of 13 won and three lost. Bill is also taking a teachers* training course at the Vesper George School of Art in Boston and will attempt to get a high school job as teacher-coach. 
193fi Secretary: John Moran 61 E. 95th St., Ap t 2. New York Citr-
ITiis is Secretary — and Editor — Moran on the line: 
"Mayhc it's because football is in the air. At any rate, October passed so quickly that the deadline for this column found us with only a few scraps of information to gnaw on—rather a drop from last month. However, the Army game two weeks hence will bring the gang to town — and plenty of news, we trust­
"The Notre Dame Club of New York held its annual retreat at the Bishop Malloy Re­treat House. Jamaica, on September 16-18. Among the 45 who attended were Bill Walsh, Jim Kirby, and Gone Lounsberry. Gene in­formed us that he is connected with the engi­neering department of the International Tele­phone and Telegraph Co., 67 Broad St, New York City. From 1935 were Jordan Hargrove, Jim McDcvitt and Bill Moss. From 1937 were Tom Hughes. Ed Ncahcr, Cy Strokcr (demon reporter, now lending his brilliant talents to the New York ALXJMNUS, along with your correspondent), and Jerry Gillespie who is now working for a book concern in New York after being on the road for Double­day Doran, the Dublishers. 
"Saw Joe Donnino at the October meeting. 
Joe is now employed by the Park Department as a playground supeo'isor in Queens. Also met Dick Campbell who, after traveling here and there, is now doing decorating work at the "World's Fair for Gardiner Dislays Co. Dick is rooming at the Sloanc House. 34th S t and 8th Ave. with Mike Tacklcy, LL.B« 'ST* who is preparing for the New York Bar. 
"Louie Alaman, after selling Allis Chalmers tractors in Minneapolis, has returned to New York^—possibly to discover if there is a stray band or two that needs a Httle of his expert drum majoring. Also gathered around were those insurance specialists, Ray Kenny and Jack Britton, Dan Hanrahan, Biff Flannery. Jim Kirby and Bill Walsh. Also Andy Hnf­nagel, who expects shortly 'to join the faculty of one of Manhattan's larger commercial schools. Bud Goldman, who is active in the radio publicity for the Rockne Memorial Fund Drive here in New York, Jim Rcilly, who is selling for Spaulding Brothers (athletic out­fitters), and Joe Sdimidt, energetic advertis­ing salesman for the New York *Sun* who is dabbling in politics on the publicity committee of one of the local congressional candidates. 
"A newcomer to this section is Jerry Kane, '38, from Tacoma, Washington. Jerry, who shared a room with us in old S t Ed's during the summer of 1935, called up one evening to say that he is now a tutor for the son of the head of the Grace Steamship Lines. Jerry can be reached at TuIIaroan, Manhasset, Long Island, New York. 
"In the mail this month was a greeting card from Jerry Vogcl, 750 Independence Blvd., CHiicago. Thanks. Jerry. Also a letter from Mickey Dcndlcr, stilt banging the law books down at the University of PennsyU-ania. 

^v^cvt«^wR iwrfi^ 
,friS:£W' 

Y
o u can recommend all Blaclchawk Hotels with com­plete confidence. Their luxurious comfort at moderate rates plus the many conveniences of their outstand­ing service and gracious hospitality will never betray your judgment. 
BLACKHAWK HOTELS LOCATED IN 
Davenport, Iowa Peoria, Illinois HOTEL BLACKHAWK HOTEL JEFFERSON HOTEL MISSISSIPPI 
St. Paul, Minnesota 
HOTEL DAVENPORT 

HOTEL St. PAUL Mason City, Iowa—HOTEL HANFORD 
^Y^K HOTEIS 
f^OjItj
tv.* 

^ V^ f^. 
•vgr-
Mickey reports that Connie Byrne is back at Temple Law this year, and that Tim Byrne, '33, J« ^ Matthews and Ray Broderick, both of '35. all passed their bar ea:ans this past July. Mickey expects to make the Army game and will again stay at the Aloran pent­house. 
"Continuing where we left off last spring, here are alphabetically listed a few '36crs who haven't broken into print in these columns in months and months. Come on boys, how about a few lettei^ or at least a few post cards. "We're all interested in hearing where and how you are — so let's hear from you. Don't put it off: do it now. A card or a short letter will be appreciated. Here goes: Win Day, Bill Daoast, John Darcy, Phil De Bmyne, Jack DeGarmo, Fred Deichmann, Carlos De-Landero, Louie DelGaizo, John Dcmpscy. Bob Dcvine. Paul and Sal DiGioranni, Bill Dillon, Pat Dizenzo, John Donley, Ed Donoghue, Alan Donovan, Tom Downing and Paul Doyle." 
From the 'Chicago Herald-Examiner' of October 12: "Probably the fastest bellhop in the business is No. 3S at the Congress Hotel— who's none other than that crack middle dis­tance runner, Joseph James 3tcGrath, Notre Dame '36. His toiling is to earn his expense through law school." 
A front page story in 'The Rambler,' stu­dent pai>er of St. Benedict's College, Atchison. Kansas, tells of the baptism in the Catholic faith of Don EUer, assistant coach and di­rector of intramural athletics. 
Art Sandusky, Casper, Wyoming, executive director of the Unemployment Compensation Commission of Wyoming, paid the campus a flying visit on October 28 on a return trip from 'Washington, D.C., where he had con­ferred with federal authorities in his field, among them Prof. Louis Buckley, '28, who is on a leave of absence from the University. Art also made a stop in Elkhart with his brother, Ray, '00. 
Jim Siddall has recently passed all mental and physical examinations and received ap­pointment as a flying cadet in the Army Air School, Randolph Field, Texas. In sending word about Jim's appointment, his father added this: ". . . his scholastic standing while at Notre Dame had a large part in his selec­tion." Jim was a magna cum laude graduate. 
1937 Secretao': Paul Foley, 44 Hampton Road. Grosse Point, Michigan. 
We give you the Detroit dazzler: 
"We are saddened by the news of the death of Dick Meier, our valedictorian and out­standing gentleman. News of his untimely passing is elsewhere in this issue. Members of his class and all those who knew Dick will long remember him. Sincere praj-ers of Notre Dame men everywhere are being offered for the brilliant man who led us all. 
"From deep in the oily lands of the South­west comes news of many of the brethren. The bearer of the tidings is Vince Probst. out of New Athens, Illinois, and a member of the 'drummer* profession. We take it Vince is peddling beer and is more active than a politician at a baby-show. 
"John Shaw, we are gi^'en to understand, is an up and coming oil man in Tulsa who has gained experience, a wife, and roughly, 13 pounds. (He'll be able to lose the last men­tioned). In the same circle are two other of the lads, one Frank Reidy, late of Oil City, Pennsylvania, and John O'Heam. We under­stand this trio is given to forming impromptu 

November, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
music recitals featuring the 'Victory March.' {All this in spite of Shaw's new wife). 
"Accounting fop Carl Senser. He is an accountant and is accounting for ^'arious oil accounts on account of it's a good business— we hope. He too is in Tulsa. 
"We expected it would be many a moon bo­fore we heard from Duvall 'Ben' Johnston. Sometimes it was all we could do to keep the chatterbox from launching into hrz ear-bang­ing. But we have heard from Silent Ben. He's at Harvard learning about appendectomy, tonsilectomy and lovercomcbacktome. (Gag). 
"Smokey Joe Canalc is reported busy in 3Iemphis. 'The onliest and bestest place of all.' Another of the clan to become benedict is Harry Marr (Best left hand in the business). No doubt most of these marriage items are no longer news to many who have corresponded with the lads. We could tell Mrs. Marr a few choice talcs of her brawny husband who used to go around beating up poor defenseless light heavyweights in order to put the fear of the Lord in some Bengalese. Harry, we under­stand, is living in Wichita. Kansas. 
*'Prob5t relays the encouraging news that he will probahlj* see A! Schwartz in Salina, Kan­sas, in the course of a sales trip.. So be of good cheer, Al: the St. Bernard is wagging through the pass and the drought will shortly be over. 
"Our ex-roomie. Gecch Puo'car, is peddling groceries to beat the old Nod, out near Jones­boro, Blytbeville, Dead-Dog Gulch and Noah's Arkansas. 
"We quote the Biblical Mr. Probst: 'Tlie other day as I was driving down Grand Ave­nue in St. Louis a huge shadow attracted my attention. In garing behind me (This Probst gets around, doesn't he?) I found Sade Lanza­fame, who is some day to become a specialist in one thing or another.* Note the direct ap­proach and the trickj* shadow gazing. 
"In Peoria, along with the Seagram boys, is Paul "Pickles" Winsoucr. who was formerly located just between the right and left guard from two to about four every Saturday. He is now working for that nebulous grandfather of us all known as the XT.S. government. 
"Pull out the ircmolo stop — here comes an­other wedding. Jack King (this could have been predicted his freshman year) is now bringing home the pay check in one piece, wiping dishes and listening to the virtues of that Washing machine in the window down­town. 
*'Alcc Sloan, who once was part owner of a Bujtk, is also commuting from Peoria in spasms to attend law school at Northwestern. 
"Also in and around Peoria at various times are Dick Dclancy and Ed Flanagan. Both of these stalwarts arc employed as engineers at the Caterpillar Tractor Co. Delaney. Flana­gan and Don Smith make up another trio and there is no place like Peoria, we are told, for trios. 
"Down Henderson, Kentucky, way, in the shade of the Cackley belt, the Ddker brothers are perpetuating a furniture establishment with the aim of taking every Kentucky frame off the business end of a keg, or else. 
"Hold your hats, boys: Edward Hackctt, whom we all remember as sound of wind and limb, is an interior decorator in Chicago. I can think of no more fertile field. 
"Max Marek is reported fully recovered from a hand fracture suffered last summer in Chi­cago. Also in the Windy City are two of our favorite 'sons. John Collins and Pete Johner. 
engaged in kindred brands of scratching out a living. Collins sells bonds. Johner sells bonded liquors. 
"The wedding bells continue to jangle their connubial cacophony. This time it's John Monckton, pride of Springfield, Illinois, whose gone and done it. It looks as though we'll have to get up a married man's baseball team and challenge the rest of you young whip­persnappers. On second thought, make it par­chessi. or a hard session at the outja board. 
"Tommy Dunn is wowing the league around Christopher, Illinois, with his razzle-dazzle football team. His high school club is reported burning up the kerosene circuit. 
"Bill SafTa has a wife too. She's the former Miss Moses (says Probst), of St. Mary's. In addition to his marriage. Bill is upholding law and order as a state trooper for the sovereign­ty of Oklahoma: he works out of Claremore. 
"Bob Siegfried, 'who tried Detroit for a while, is back in Tulsa associated with his father in the insurance business. 
"By the way, may we quote Prohst again? 'If any of the-boys get into the vicinity of St. Louis, tell them to make the jog of 2S miles out to my headquarters at The Mound City Brewing Co., New Athens, Illinois. You'll be welcome as all pet out.' 
"We understand Jack Walsh is or was in Porto Rico, which is a far cry from Jones* Beach. We have no further details on this jaunt into exotic climes. 
"On our list of those who must write to us within the month are: Charlie Hufnagel, Jim Downey, Ray Cowlcs, Jim Sfoulder and Kenna Joseph Hcathcrmann. of Huntington. West Virginia. 
"Well, as we always says—no news is good news." 
1938 Secretary: Harold A. Williams. 216 East Lake Ave., Baltimore. Maryland. 
Hal, as you will read, is putting his experi­

ence with "The Week" to good use. He \vrites: 
"In the '3S class notes of the Octofce'r 

ALUMNUS, 259 names were mentioned. I'd 
like to get information on the other 252 boys 
(according to my figures there were 511 grad­
uates in the class, including the 49 from sum­
mer school). If your name, or the name of 
your old bunkie or friend from across the hall 
(the fellow who always listene<l to the Morn­
ing Bugle the days you wanted to get some 
sleep). hasn't boon mentioned just let me 
know and I'll see that the name appears in 
the next issue. I'd also like to correct any 
changes that have been made since the class 
placement data was filed in the Alumni Of­
fice back in the balmy and carefree days of 
June. 
"In a recent letter. Bill Doolcy, the newly-appointed director of the Placement Bureau, says, 'You will doubtless be flooded soon by indignant letters from classmates regarding the placement which we gave them in the issue just out. I have a feeling a lot of the boi-s changed their jiians after they filled out the questionnaires last Spring. AVell, that is one way of making them write letters. . . .* Get the point, boys? 
"To supplement the meager amount of news I've been able to collect for the November issue. Bill DooIcV sends this new placement data: Lawrence Stewart is working for an insurance firm in Chicigo, Ralph Pope is do­ing accounting for Armour & Company in Chicago. Joseph Campbell is with the South Bend Credit Bureau, Louis Dunn, the old man­aging editor of the '37 'Dome' is with the Port Huron (Michigan) 'Times Herald' as the Sanilac county correspondent, William Bed-
ANNOUNCING 
THE FIFTH PRINTING OF 

GOD'S HEROES 
A Study of the Saints For Children 
By Thos. A. Lahey, CS.C. 
# Here is a work that has gone through five printings within the $hort space of three years — two in book form and three in pamphlet form, the latter of which over 55,000 copies were sold shortly after publication. The pamphlet form comprises a series of 20 brochures to the set. every one being of a dif­ferent cclor. 
# By this work Father Lahey has not only establbhed his reputation as an hagiographer, but also proved himself a popular writer for children. SIMPLE . INTERESTING and INSTRUC­TIVE , this work encourages the young reader in the practice of common-evcry-day duties. 
# "In language that a boy and girl can understand — witty, concrete, pic­turesque, crowded with dramatic inter­est and anecdote, brira-full of good sense and human heartedness. with force and ease and elegance.— Father Lahey writes his 'Study of the Saints for 
Children.' 
# "The boys and girls of America have never before been in any make-believe wonderland half so fascinating as this unique real Hall of God's Heroes and Heroines such as Father-Lahey with painstaking scholarship and h'terary insight and priestly zeal has assembled with his powerful pen for the delight and the inspiration of our Catholic youngsters."—The Ave Maria, 
[^^^ Be sure to indicate which form you wish to procure. Each sells for 
ONLY $1.00 
THE AVE MARIA PRESS DepL A-11, Noire Dame, Indiana 

The Notre Dame Alumnus November. 1938 
mond Duffsran is taking ^aduate work in Chicago (but he doesn't mention what Art is 
CENTRAUTY 
In the heart of Chicago's business and social activities. A step from Chicago's world famous Michigan Boulevard; adjacent to Lincoln Park; a short block from Lake Michigan and almost equally close to the heart of the so-called Loop. 
•
 450 guest rooms, each outside, spacious, beautifully equipped with both and shower combination, servi­dor and circulating ice water. 

•
 Three colorful restaurants including a popular priced coffee shop, ten pri­vate dining rooms and ballrooms in­cluding our new Notre Dame Room. 

•
 Notre Dame alumni, student body and faculty can be definitely certain that they will receive the ultimate in focilities, courtesy and service at rates surprisingly moderate. 

•
 Make the Knickerbocker your headquarters when in Chicago. 


Allan G. Hursf, Manager 
CHICAGO'S 
1ICKERB0CKER 
Politics at Notre Dame. Chack Beaslej is with the public accounting firm of Lybrand, Boss Brothers and Montgomery, 90 Broad St., New York, '3Iis5tssippi BUI' Condon is back at 
N.D. for his second year of Law. as is his old roommate, former king of the Notre Dame managers John DonncOy. John, in addition to ta^ng law and casting an experienced eye on the managerial corps, is holding down my old job in the Athletic Office laughing »t Bob CahiU*s ('34) jokes. Robert Brymn is taking medicine at Western Reserve in Cleve­land. Bob, incidentally, was one of the 74 selected from the SOO applicants for the freshman medical class. Congratulations, Bob! 
"Faithful Gene Vasiett came through with another fine letter and more dope on the New forkers. Gene was offered a job with an in­surance company as a claim adjuster, and the same day received an offer from Schaeffer's advertising agency. Gene was more inter­3sted in advertising, so he told the insurance company he didn't want their old job. The next day he went do^vn to Schaeffer's ready to go to work. He was told that the job didn't start for a month! While Gene was waiting for the month to elapse he gathered the following class news: 
"*WiId Bill* Arnold is taking Law at Co­lumbia, Art Philson is taking Medicine at Cornell, Ed Bartnctt, in addition to doing graduate work in English at Columbia, Is writing football articles for his Daddy's New York 'Sun/ Kesicke, Silui^ki and Ward are still unemployed, Wimpy WardeU is working for the American Can Company in New York and putting on weight hetvi'een meals. Bill Gallin is in upstate New York on a five-year engineering contract, and Lieutenant Joseph Callahan is situated at Fort Hamilton serving the United States and playing on the Fort Hamilton football team. A recent article in the New York "Hmes' said, 'Fort Hamilton's football team will be strengthened by the addi­tion of Lieutenant Joe Callahan, ex-Notre Dame lineman.* Gene adds that he was with Tom Healy, the old 'Juggler Vein' paragrapher (The Juggler Vein, by the way, is out of ex­istence this year), at the Commodore Hotel, but he neglects to say what Tom is doing in New York. 
"Tom Hutchinson writes that he is no longer catching beetles in Elkhart county for the Federal Government. He is now in Indianap­olis as publicity director for the Works Prog­ress Administration in Tndiana. He has the easy job of getting W.P.A- articles in the In­diana papers and keeping derogatory W.P.A. jokes off the vaudeville stage. Bob Crockett is working on a freighter sailing between San Fancisco and Honolulu: his ambition Is to be purser on the Queen Mary. Tom Hardart is working for the Horn & Hardart restaurant chain in New York. I saw Hal Langton walk­ing down one of the main streets of Balti­more on October 12 with his Baltimore girl friend, but before I could cross the street and speak to him he had disappeared in the crowd. Hank Leader is back at Notre Dame for more studying and more bull sessions. Nel Vogel, of Colfax theatre fame, is connected with Catholic Charities in some way. Bill Dooley says that there is a rumor going around that Jack Zerbst, the old fencing captain, is going to South Africa for the National Carbon Com­pany. Jim 3Iagee, way up there in Buffalo, had a serious operation around the first of October, but is now recovering. 
"Jake Lediner, who keeps the '38 notes posted on the law graduates, writes that Cliff Brown. Ed Hammer. Louie Vettel and Rex Weaver passed the last Ohio bar examination. Moose Water* ^\-rites that Art Geis is still in doing—What are you doing. Art?), and that Tiger McGrath took the Catholic University scholarship in preference to going to Harvard. 
• "Charlie Callahan has written two letters since the October ALUMNUS hit the street. The first letter was written in a club car while Charlie was riding to I*xington, Massa­chusetts, to show the home folks his diploma. Charlie w'os down in Bloomington, Indiana, for a week-^nd and while there ran into Bob Whitehead (the fellow .who claims he never wore shoes until he came to Notre Dame), who is working for his father in New Ross. Indiana. Charlie says that Tom Radigan, the old '37 'Dome' editor, is taking Law at In­diana and having a lot of fun. Charlie spent the following week-end in Indianapolis and saw Eddie Kilrain who is working for the Indiana Bell Telephone Company, and Jim Carson who expects to do basketball officiating this winter after he works all day for the Bell Tel. In Kokomo, Charlie saw John Joyce who was a freshman with us. John is now with the Northern Indiana Power Company in Ko­komo. Callahan's second letter came from Joplin, Missouri. Charlie explains this. He spent 36 hours in Lexington displaying the diploma, missed his train to New York, took his first plane trip, saw a World Series game by masquerading as a Cub player, hitch-hiked to South Bend, saw the Kansas game, spent a few days with Joe Hencbry who is vice-president of the Ploinficld (III.) National Bank and vice-president of the Plalnfield Rotary Club, and then started hitch-hiking for Ari­zona. On the back of the envelope Charlie scribbles the inforarotion that Charlie Slyn­stead is at M.I.T. taking graduate work in Chemical Engineering. 
"In behalf of the *38 boys I extend sympa­thy to Tommy Hu^cs on the death of hia father, September 23, and Dick Leahy, on the death of his mother, September 25> 
"I'd like to give a public reminder to Ivan Ivancertc. Bill Robinson, Bob — River Forest, 
III. — Mullen. Bob Laoghlin. Tom Healy and Jack 'Splinters' Clifford, that I have yet to receive an answer from them. 
"That about takes care of the news for this month, except for myself. I finally landed a job. I'm working for the Retail Credit Com­pany in Baltimore as an insurance investi­gator. 
"Write when you have the opportunity, the inclination and the stamp. If you have the opportunity and the inclination, but not the stamp, use a postcard." 
TUBERCULIN SURVEV 
FolloMiing the practice of other universities in this country Notre Dame has Instituted a survey to determine the extent of tuberculosis among he student body. 
Under the direction of Doctor J. E. McMeel. head University physician, over 2,000 tests have already been made. By the middle of November the survey will be complete with about 2,700 students tested. • The remaining 300 have already undergone inspection in order to secure employment in the Dining Hall. 
Dr. McMeel is using the Vollmer tuber­culin patch test. The test consists of a small strip of adhesive tape with two tuberculin test squares placed on each side of a filter of glycerin broth. Through the natural moist­ness of the skin the tuberculin is dissolved and absorbed sufficiently to render an accurate reaction. 
The tuberculosis test is being provided for at the expense of the University. Students requiring X-rays \vill be given a special rate. 

November, 1938 The Notre Dame Alumnus 
1937 Legal Direetory 
(Additions and Chansea) 

PLACEMENT PROGRAM PROGRESS 
ILLINOIS 

Chicago 
1. A few contacts have been made between men and jobs. FERSTEL, WilliMH G, VO 160 N. LaSalle St. SiUte 909-911 
2. The time element, as anticipated, creates difficulties between the INDIANA Alumni Office, the man, and the job. Therefore, it is vitally important 
Lafa^eltt
that the Clubs set up placement machinery in as many commumties as RICKS. Michael T, A£. "28 possible to effect prompt coordination of N.D. men and jobs for them, Lafayette Loan & Trust BIdg. 
working through the Alumni Office only when local talent isn't available. 
South Bend 
SHAPERO. Jowph B, B.CS, 37 3. The Rockne Memorial project this Fall has taken up a great deal LL.B„ 38; J.M3. Bldg.. Suite 807 of time ori^nally planned for placement work. Cooperation and pa­MICHIGAN tience will aid greatly in making this up. 

Grand Rapids 
WALSH. Leo W.. A.B.. -28 4. A number of very good men, '38 graduates and older men, are in 918 Michigan Trust BIdg. 

need of jobs. Commerce and engineering jobs, and journalism, will be welcomed. 
Cannody. Geib & Walsh NEW YORK 

Clem Falb
5. Work on Senior placement for the '39 Class will get under way TOUHEY. Clare Leo. A3. . "26 ­shortly. Alumni connected with industries which interview prospective 
personnel among college seniors are asked to notify William R. Dooley, 714 Ridge Street '26, who is handling the placement program, so that these representa­Tanytolbn tives may be invited to Notre Dame. GROSS. Lawrence T.. Jr.. A3 , 34 Law Offices of Gerald Fitzgerald Lyceum BIdg. 
Ik NOTRE DAME DRINKING GLASS 
$2.65 a Dozen 
(Including shipping costs) 

The ten-ounce drinking glass, with the seal of the University in blue and gold on the side, is the first thing of its land to be authorized by the University. 
Any profits deriving from the sale of the glasses vill be administered by Rev. John F. CyHara, C.S.C., '11, president of the University, in the form of student relief funds. 
The glasses make excellent, practical year round items for your own home, or remembrances for the homes of others. 
Address: COMPTROLLER'S OFFICE, Notre Dame, Indiana 
Ospyright 1938, LIGGETT & MYEES TOBACCO CO. 







