The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
• '...vv  iXV'^. .-.-it-l u^  •;mV/lB<1B  
'{  -3V|  
.*««• »  
®v:  
l^ v  
1  
ill??'  
;«a  
m  


Zkc Notre Dame Alumnus 
VoL 28. No. 3 May-June. 1950 
James E. Armstrong. '25. Editor John P. Bums. '34. Managing Editor John N. Cackley. Jr., '37. Associate Editor 
This magazine is published bi-monlhly by the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Ind. Entered as second class matter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Postoffice, Notre Dame. Ind., under the act of Aug. 24, 1912. 
Table of Contents 
FOUR NEW BUILDINGS  .-.  3  
LABOR-INDUSTRY FORUM  4  
COMMENCEMENT  5  
UND NIGHT  6  
FIVE GREAT BENEFACTORS  7  
UNIVERSITY TODAY  8  
LOBUND DEDICATION  9  
NOTRE DAME SUMMER SCHOOL  10  
ALUMNI  CLUBS  11  
UND NIGHT PICTURES  20  
ALUMNI CLASSES  23  

BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
OFFICERS FRANCIS WALLACE, '23 Honorary President LEO B. WARD, '20 J>resident REV. VINCENT P. BREXNAN, '32 First Vice-President JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27 Second Vice-President .•\RTHUR D. CROXIN, JR., '37 Third Vice-President 
DIRECTORS TO 1951 .•\RTHUR D. CROXIN, JR., '37 ^632 Buhl Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich. LEO B . WARD, '20 214 Rowan Bldg., Los Angeles 13, Calif. JOSEPH M . BOLAND, '27 Radio Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. REV. VINCENT P. BREXXAX, '32....408 Baldwin Rd., Pittsburgh, 7, Pa. 
DIRECTORS TO 1952 WiLLUM J. SHERRY, '21 804 Kennedy Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. WILLIAM B. JONES, '28 7102 Meadow Lane, Chevy Chase 15, Md. 
R. CONROY SCOOCIXS, '24 480 Humble Bldg., Houston, Tex. EDWARD J. BECKMAX, '16 .40 South Dr., Plandome, N. Y. 
DIRECTORS TO 1953 JOHN Q . ADAMS, '26 158 Lorraine, Upper Montclair, N. J. HARVEY G. FOSTER, '39..._ 327 Federal Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. RICHARD J. NASH, '23 6235 Kenmore, Chicago 23, III. DR. MATTHEW WEIS, '22 7379 Northmoor, St. Louis 5, Mo. 
JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 director and Secretary 



Class Reunions 
June 9, 10,11 

Classes of 1900, '05, '10, '15, '20......Howard Hall 
Class of 1925  Xyons HaU  
Class of 1930  Morrissey Hall  
Class of 1935  DUlon Hall  
Classes of 1940, '45  Alumni Hall  

FRIDAY, JUNE 9 (all times Central Daylight Saving) 

General Registration Law Building Lobby Class Registration in class halls Golf Tournament, Class Reunion Dinners, Smokers 
SATURDAY, JUNE 10 

Class Masses, Pictures, Elections More Golf President's noon luncheon for 25-year class Academic review by deans, 1:30-3:00 p.m., Wash­
ington Hall Moot Court Finals, 2:30 p.m. and Law Cocktail party. Law Building, 4-6 p.m. Armual Alunuii Banquet, 6 p.m., dining hall — The 
Alumni Secretary, toastmaster Principal address, by the University President Awarding of Golf Prizes — Trainer Hugh Bums Presentation of awards to members of 50-Year Club Reports of Alumni Officers 
SUNDAY, JUNE 11 

10:00 a.m.. Low Mass, sermon by Father Cornelius Laskowski, c.s.c. 
GENERAL INFORMATION 

Cafeteria Hours: 7-9:30 a.m. (Sunday, 8-9 a.m.),­11 a.m.-l:30 p.m.; 5-7 p.m. 
Aid Station — Alumni Hall, Room 156. 
Western Unirai — Incoming messages delivered from South Bend 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
W^f'-.^J^J-^^SW: 


Four New Buildings To Meet Old Needs 
Four of the long-range needs of the University will be filled this year by reason of gifts to the University announced this month by Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president. 
Father Cavanaugh announced that benefac­tions from Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy, president of Globe Oil and Refining Co., and from Mr. Ernest 
M. Morris, '06, board chairman of Associates In­vestment Co., will make possible the construction of a Liberal and Fine Arts building, and the Notre Dame Inn. 
The Liberal and Fine Arts Building will cost $1,500,000, the Morris Inn approximately $1,000,000, equipped. With the gift (announced in the March-April ALUMNUS) from Mrs. Sally Fisher of $750,000 for a new residence hall and the $500,000 pledged by the successful conclu­sion of the Greater Notre Dame Campaign in South Bend, Mishawaka, and other cities, the new Science Building is now assured. 
Father Cavanaugh, in revealing Mr. O'Shaugh­
nessy as the donor of the Liberal and Fine Arts 
building, said: 
"Notre Dame is deeply grateful for the verj' generous gift of Mr. O'Shaughnessy, who has do­nated so unselfishly of his time and effort on be­half of this University as a distinguished member of its associate board of lay trustees. 

"Mr. O'Shaughnessy's gift will enable Notre Dame to broaden greatly the scope of the training of students in the College of Arts and Letters. This college has been the cornerstone of the University's educational system in its 108-year history." 
In acknowledging Mr. Morris' gift of the No­tre Dame Inn, Father Cavanaugh said: 
"The Morris Inn, which our beloved trustee and alumnus, E. M. Morris, is making available to the University, manifests not only his extraordi­
(Contimied on page 10) 

May-June, 1950 


e Alumnus 
Liberal and Fine Arts Building 
Notre Dame Inn 
Fisher Residence Hdl 
End Selfishness in Labor-Manager Relations, Alumnus Asks in Campus Economics Forum 
William E. Brown, '29, an alumnus who returned May 11 to the campus as a member of the University's Industrial Relations Panel made a plea for less selfishness by both sides in labor-man­agement negotiations. 
Mr. Bro%\Ti, representing the legal de­partment of Allis-Chalmer's Corp. of Milwaukee, and widely experienced in labor-management relations asked both sides to "forget selfishness in negotia­tions and deal on the basis of economic realities and the common good, not on the basis of economic power and selfish­ness." 

In the panel, sponsored by the Eco­nomics Department of the University, Mr. Brown told his audience that labor-management cooperation at the plant level is good, but added that the ti-end toward industiy-wide coopei-ation is "far from noteworthy." 
Justin McAghon, of Washington, D. C, Fedei-al Commissioner of Mediation, opened the panel May 4 as the govern­ment representative.-He"spoke on "Chris­tian Ethics and Industrial Relations," oflfei-ing a two point program toward stabilizing industrial relations. 
"First," said Mr. McAghon, "the mu­tual recognition by labor and manage­ment of their status as elements of our industrial society, paralleling domestic society and civil society; and second, a recognition of the indispensability to any society of a moral bond to unite both minds and hearts, and to inspire fruit­ful cooperation in pursuit of a common goal—in this case, the mutual welfare of employers and the advancement of the welfare of the community." 
Mr. McAghon pointed to the countries of Europe where class conflicts have caused the loss of freedom itself and stressed the urgency for stabilizing in­dustrial relations here "within the frame­work of the moral principles embodied in the Declaration of Independence and 
THE BEST LAID SCHEMES .. . 
Ticket Manager Robert Cahill, '34, 
(and several other astute readers) has 
asked the ALUMNUS to correct a re­
grettable error which crept into the 
March-April ALUMNUS. Herewith, 
the correction: NOTRE DAME DOES 
NOT PLAY PITTSBURGH AT 
CLEVELAND. THE GAME IS AT 
NOTRE D.\ME. In Mr. CahiU's tick­
et story on 'page 7 of the last ALUM­
NUS, the error occurred, through no 
fault of his or the editor's. 

the Bill of Rights as a sure means of strengthening our American heritage of democracy." 
Mr. McAghon is fonner president of the National Catholic Evidence Commit­tee and last March was awarded the Rerum Novarum Medal by St. Peter's College in recognition of his 40 years' work in bettering industrial relations. 
Labor was represented on the panel by Mr. Nicholas DiPietro, a member of the Industiial Commission of Illinois. He called for a return to the principles laid down in two papal encyclicals, "The Con­dition of Labor" and "Reconsti-uction of the Social Order." 
7904 Graduate. Noted Jurisf, Dies In Washington 
John Ireland O'Phelan, '04, one of the Pacific Northwest's prominent jurists and a leader in numerous civic and religious afi'airs, died April 27 at his home in Raymond, Wash. 
Judge O'Phelan was 68. A daughter. Miss Aileen O'Phelan, of Raymond, and a son, John C. O'Phelan, of Portland, Ore., survive. He had served as Superior Judge of Pacific and Wahkiakum Coun­ties from Jan. 12, 1937, until his retire­ment last December. His term would have ended in January, 1953. 
A Fourth Degree Knight of Columbus, he also served as state deputy of Wash­ington and was president of the South­west Washington Intercouncil. 
He was program chairman of the Pa­cific County Historical Society and an active parishioner of Conception Church in Raymond. 

L/oyd, Former N.D. Comptroller, Dies In Fla. 
Francis W. Lloyd, 59, former comp­troller of the University, died April 28 in DeBary, Fla. Mr. Lloyd served the University from Sept. 20, 1932, until ill health forced his retirement Nov. 29, 1944. 
Sun'iving are his widow, Mrs. Agnes 

B. Lloyd, and t^vo daughters, Mrs. Vin­cent Guracharri, of DeBary, Fla., and Sister M. Margaret Theresa, of the Car­melite Convent of the Sacred Heart, New York City. 
Mr. Lloyd was educated in England and came to the United States at the age of 23. He left a position with Commer­cial Investment Trust in New York to assume the comptroller's duties at the University. 
Nation's Leading Scientists To Attend Symposium Here 
New development in the more import­ant fields of medicinal chemistry will be reviewed by experts at the Second Nation­al Medicinal Chemistry Symposium of the American Chemical Society to be held June 15, 16 and 17 at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, professor of chemistry at Notre Dame, is general chairman of the 1950 Symposium, which will be held under the auspices of the Division of Medicinal Chemistry of the 
A.C.S. Dr. Campbell, who is conducting cancer research at Notre Dame, is chair­man-elect of the Medicinal Chemistry Division. 


N,D, Debator Named National Champion 
William Carey, Notre Dame debator from Pittsburgh, Pa., was named the in­dividual national champion college de­bator at the West Point National Invita­tional Debate Tournament. Carey's rec­ognition climaxed a successful season for the N.D. speakers. 
Carey teamed with William Dempsey, of New Ulm, Minn., to carry the Notre Dame colors into the quarterfinals of the national tournament before being elimi­nated, 3-2, by Southeastern University in the first of four final rounds. Only 32 of the nation's 1200 college debate teams were invited to the West Point tourna­ment. 
Carey and Dempsey—Notre Dame's "first string"— won 40 debates, while losing only nine during the 1949-50 sea­son. The overall Notre Dame squad rec­ord for the season was 80 victories, 28 defeats. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



University Will Award Honorary Degrees To Four at 105th Commencement, June 4 
The University will confer honorary doctorate degrees on an archbishop of the Catholic Church, a leading diplomat­ic figure, a noted business executive and a prominent newspaper publisher at its 105th Commencement exercises to be held Sunday, June 4, according to an an­nouncement by the Rev. John J. Cava­naugh, C.S.C, president. 
Father Cavanaugh announced that No­tre Dame will confer honoi-ary Doctor of Laws degrees on the Most Rev. Francis 
P. Keough, archbishop of Baltimore; the Hon. John J. Hearne, first ambassador of Ireland to the U. S.; Charles F. Wil­liams, president of the Western and Southern Life Insurance Co.; and F. A. Miller, president and editor of the South Bend. Ind., Tribune. 
Archbishop Keough, who has been ai-chbishop of Baltimore since 1D48, was conseci-ated bishop of Providence, R. I., in 1934, whei-e he remained until he was transferred to Baltimore as bishop in 1947. Archbishop Keough will deliver the baccalaureate sermon on Commencement Sunday, and currently is serving as vice-chairman of the administrative board of the National Catholic Welfare Confer­ence, Washington, D. C. He also is chair­man of the Depai-tment of Education of the NCWC. 
Mr. Miller joined the South Bend Tri­bune immediately upon being graduated from high school in South Bend in 1887. He became president in 1924, and under his direction the paper has developed into one of the leading newspapei's in 
Archbishop Keough, F. A. Miller, and the Hon. John J. Hearne 
Mr. Hearne arrived in Washington, D. C, on March 29 as ambassador of Ire­land to the United States and had been high commissioner of Ireland in Cana­da. He formei-ly sen'ed as assistant at­torney general of Ireland, legal adviser to the Irish Department of External Af­fairs, and senior counsel. 
Mr. Williams, a native of Cincinnati, has been appointed to many responsible posts by the governor of Ohio. He has been repeatedly called to the White House during periods of national emer­gency for conferences of business lead­ers. He was elected vice-president and general counsel of the Western and Southern Life Insui-ance Co. in 1910. He was elected president of the company in 1931. Mr. Williams twice has been hon­ored by the Vatican, as a knight com­mander of the Order of St. Gregory and as master knight of the Sovereign Mili­tary Order of Malta. He is a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University. 
May-June, 1950 
the Middle West. The publisher was a delegate to the Republican National Con­vention in 1924, and served as first pres-dent of the South Bend Association of Commei-ce. Mi-. Miller is a member of the National Press Club in Washington. 
Alumni Win Recognition 
For Service fo Youth 
Two alumni and a member of the Chi­cago Foundation Committee wei'e among five Chicagoans honored for "their serv­ice to the cause of youth" at Bishop Ber­nard J. Shell's corned beef and cabbage dinner May 11 in Chicago's Palmer House. 
.\rch Ward, '23, sports editor of the Chicago Tribune and John W. Scallan, '25, received the award of The Order of the Palms, along with Britton I. Budd, who is also a member of the University Advisory Council for Science and Engi­neexing. 
Charles F. Williams 


Mother of the Year Has Four In C.S.C. 
Mrs. John Eauer of Manchester, Mich., the widowed mother of two Holy Cross priests, two Holy Cross Brothers and five nuns, was chosen Catholic Mother of the United States for the Holy Year of 1950. 
Besides the religious, she has five other children. 
Selection honoring Mrs. Bauer was made by the National Catholic Confer­ence on Family Life and announced by Miss Mary L. Callahan, conference pres­ident. 
Mrs. Bauer is the mother of Father Lawrence Bauer, C.S.C, stationed- in In­dia as a missionary; Father Edwin Bauer, C.S.C, stationed at Holy Family Church, Austin, Tex.; Brother Christo­pher Bauer, C.S.C, teaching at Sacred Heart Novitiate, South Bend, and Broth­er Protase Bauer, C.S.C, in the Holy Cross Postulate at Dartmouth, Mass. 
Of her five daughters who became Sisters of Mercy, one. Sister Mary Jo­seph, has died. Those living are Sister Mary Philomena, Sister Mary Rita and Sister Mary Bernard, all at St. Law-i-ence Hospital, Lansing, Mich.; and Sister Mary Augustine, at Mercy Hos­pital, Jackson, Mich. 
Mrs. Bauer, a partial invalid, lives with her youngest daughter, .\nn. Her other children are Mrs. Thomas Connelly and Alphonsus, John and Joseph Bauer. She has 14 grandchildren. 
Brother Christopher Bauer, CvS.C, says of his mother, "There are many outstanding qualities and virtues of mother, but the one that stands out most clearly is her confidence in prayer, es­pecially the Rosary." 

Shuster fo Bavaria As 


Accomplishments and Needs Underlined 
Sfate Commissioner 
Dr. George N. Shuster, '15, president of 



At Universal N. D. Night Observances 
Hunter College in New York, was appoint­
Observance of the 27th annual Uni­versal Notre Dame Night this year saw a record total of 105 clubs participating in local ceremonies. 
The University's gi-owing prestige as a trainer of morally responsible leaders was reflected in the "Man of the Year" awa.rd presented to a Notre Dame alum­nus by each club. The award cited the man of the year for his outstanding con­tribution through leadership in civic, pa­triotic or church work. 
Father John Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Uni­versity president spoke before the Chi­cago club April 15 and at Baltimore, April 17. Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, executive vice-president, address­ed the Detroit Club and Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C, vice-president in chai-ge of public relations, made appearances be-
UND Night Pictures on Pages 20-27 Stories in Club Section, Page 77 
fore Notre Dame alumni clubs in Mem­phis, New Orleans, St. Louis, and with Coach Frank Leahy, in Omaha. 
As a sidelight on Father Murphy's trip, he returned to the University with $5,000 from the St. Louis Alumni Club for its scholarship fund, $1,200 from the Alumni Club of Omaha and $1,000 from Joseph B. McGlynn of E. St. Louis, 111. 
Besides Omaha and St. Louis, there are at present eight other alumni clubs providing scholarship funds for needy and deserving young men who 'Nvill best benefit from a Notre Dame education. These are the alumni clubs of Cincinnati, Cleveland, Akron, Indianapolis, Ken­tucky, New York, Rock River Valley (111.), and St. Joseph Valley (Ind.). 
At each of the 105 observances, the past accomplishments of Notre Dame, and its future needs, as a trainer of morally responsible leaders were cited. Father Louis Thornton, C.S.C, Univer­sity registrar, spoke at San Francisco and Father Thomas J. Brennan, C.S.C, appeared at Elmira, N. Y. 
An accomplishment of the University almost as spectacular in its own field as the football team—LOBUND—was re­viewed in Rochester, N. Y., by Professor James A. Reyniers, head of LOBUND, and in Milwaukee by Robert F. Ervin, business administrator of the labora­tories. Professor Reyniers also appeared on a radio'program and at a seminar arranged by the University of Rochester. 
The story of the growing influence and 
Father Steiner and winner 
parallel needs of the University was brought even to foreign countries wt h Universal Notre Dame Night observa­tions in Honolulu, Manila and Puerto Rico. 
For pictures of Universal Notre Dame Night, see pages 20-21. 

Doub/e-£ Sen/or Wins First Fr. Steiner Prize 
John Machinchick, electrical engineer­ing senior who will graduate maxi­ma cum laude, is the winner of the first annual Father Steiner Prize, inaugurat­ed this year by former students of Very Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, C.S.C, provin­cial of the United States Province of the Holy Cross Order. 
The Father Steiner Prize was insti­tuted by members of the class of 1925, led by B. J. Cantwell. It is a memorial to Father Stein.er and will be awarded annually to the eng^ineering junior or senior who "has displayed the qualities of leadership." The prize at present con­sists of a certificate and $50, and con­testants are judged by four faculty members as they read papers they have prepared on engineering subjects. 
Scholarship counts 40 points in the competition, department faculty rating ten points, departmental engineering so­ciety rating ten points, extra-curricular activities ten points and presentation of the paper, 30 points. 
Machinchick read a paper on "Power System Stability." He is a native of Cut­chogue, N. Y., and during his army ca­reer was a radar instructor at Wsst Point. 

ed last month to one of the most important 
posts in the .'Vmcrican occupation of Ger­
many—that of state commissioner for Ba­
varia. 
The appointment, made by High Com­missioner John J. McCloy, is regarded as particularly fortunate because Dr. Shuster is a prominent educator, knows Germany, speaks German fluently, and is a Catholic. Most of the .\merican government's prob­lems in Ba\-aria center around education and relations with the Church. 
Dr. Shuster will take over the commis­

sioner's office about July 1 on a leave of ab­
sence from Hunter. 
Bavaria, a predominately Catholic state, is the largest of the four in the American zone, with a population of 9,000,000, nearly a third of whom are refugees. The state has bothered Western officials by showing some evidence of failure to respond satisfactorily to U. S. democratization efforts—especially in education. It is expected that Dr. Shus­ter's appointment will put him in a position to modify assertions of Catholic leaders that the government's influence in the schools is much the same as that once e.\ertcd by the Nazis. 
American authorities believe he will be 

able to strengthen the democratization pro­
gram and continue advances that have been 
made in Bavaria since the end of the war. 
Dr. Shuster, whose books include one en­titled The Germans, studied in Germany as an Oberlaender Trust fellow in 1932, and visited the country after the war, ac­quainting himself at first-hand with the people's mood and opinions. 
The new commissioner, who spoke at the 

St. Mary's Commencement last June, re­
ceived his .\.B. degree from \otre Dame in 
1915 and his master's degree in 1920. He 
taught at Notre Dame, Brooklyn Polytcch, 
and St. Joseph's College for Women. He 
was named dean of Hunter College in 1939 
and has been president since 1940. 
Dr. Shuster was a member of the advisorj­committee of the State Department's divi­sion of cultural relations, chairman of the War Department's historical commission in Germany, adviser to the U. S. delegation at the London Conference on International Education, and a delegate to the Paris meet­ing of the Paris meeting of UNESCO in 1946. 
Jordan Named Coach 
John Jordan, '35, was recently named head basketball coach at Loyola Univer­sity, Chicago. He had been basketball coach at Mt. Carmel High School, Chi­cago, since his graduation, with thi'ee years out for Navy sen'ice. 
During Jordan's tenure at Mt. Cannel his teams won three Catholic League crowns, three city titles and placed first five times in the St. George Scholastic Tournament. He goes to Loyola on a three-year contract. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 



St Joe Valley's 'Man of the Year' Is Polio Victim Jack Miles 
Scattered throughout this issue you'll find reports of UND Night Miles, '47, polio-stricken South Bend Tribune reporter. Watching are "Man of the Year" awards made by clubs all over the country. But Jack's parents, Mr. and Mrs. J. F. Miles, '22. Jack, who now spends one of the most important presentation ceremonies took place just a only a few hours a week in the iron lung, was honored for his cour­few blocks from the campus—at St. Joseph Hospital in South Bend. age and cheerfulness in the face of his illness, and for hs alert and Above, Father Phillip Beaghan, C.S.C., chaplain of the St. Joseph continuing interest in Notre Dame. The ALUMNUS heartily con­Valley Club, presents the club's "Man of the Year" scroll to Jack curs. Ironically, he was stricken while reporting a polio epidemic 


Benefactions From Five Great Leaders Reflect N. D.*s Spirit of Opportunity 
The famed Noti-e Dame Spirit is sym­bolically reflected in gifts to the Univer­sity during the past five years by five nationally pi-ominent figures whose in­dividual careers are a "rags-to-i-iches" pattern. 
The Eev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the University, points to gifts totalling more than $.5 million from this quintet of benefactors as "embi-ac­ing the same philosophy upon which No­tre Dame was founded, namely to pro­vide an opportunity for youth of the United States." 
Father Cavanaugh referred to Peter 
C. Reilly, Indianapolis industrialist; the late Martin J. Gillen, Land O' Lakes, Wis., attorney and economist; the late Fi-ed J. Fisher, Detroit industrialist; Er­nest M. Morris, '06, South Bend busi­ness executive; and I. A. O'Shaughnsssy, St. Paul, Minn., and Golden Beach, Fla., industrialist. 
Each of the five benefactors. Father Ca\'anaugh points out, started life with virtually no monetary wealth, and each wor'ked his way to success through his own efforts. All that each of these men asked, the Notre Dame pi'esident ex­plains, was an opportunity to get ahead. Now, through their benefactions to No­tre Dame, they have passed along this opportunity to other young men. Notre Dame, Father Cavanaugh observes, was founded with this same objective: pro­viding an opportunity to the youth of Amei-ica to become the morally respon­sible leaders of tomorrow. 
Mr. Reilly, president of the Eeilly Tar and Chemical Corporation, gave ?1 mil­lion to Notre Dame in 1945 for use in chemistry and science. The Indianapolis industrialist is a member of the Advis­ory Council for Science and Engineering at Notre Dame and of the University's Associated Board of Lay Trustees. 
Mr. Gillen's estate, administration of which was closed in 1945, provided a benefaction of more than $1 million to Notre Dame. The benefaction is being used for educational and scientific pur­poses under the name of the Notre Dame-Martin J. Gillen Foundation. In­cluded in it was Mr. Gillen's 6,000 acre estate at Land O'Lakes, Wis. Mr. Gillen, who was noted for his "international 
balance sheet" between the United States 
and the world, died in 1943. 
The w-idow of the late Fred J. Fisher, a founder of the Fisher Body Co., do­nated $1 million to Notre Dame late last year for a new $750,000 student resi­dence hall and a revolving $250,000 stu­dent loan fund. The benefaction, Mrs. Fisher explained, was made to carry out what she knows would have been the wishes of her deceased husband, namely to provide an opportunity for the young man who is willing to work. The late Mr. Fisher, who became one of the na­tion's top industrialists, was a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame until his death in 1941. 
Mr. Morris, Chairman of the Board of the Associates Investment Company, pro­vided a benefaction last month which will enable Notre Dame to erect the $1 million Morris Inn, designed to acom­modate visitors to the campus. Mr. Mor­ris, a member of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees of the University, recalls that he had to borrow $100 when he en­tered Notre Dame to study law. He was graduated in 1906. 
Mr. O'Shaughnessy, president of the Globe Oil and Refining Co., was recently announced as the donor of a $1,500,000 Liberal and Fine Arts Building at the University.: He is a member of the As­sociate Bosii-d of Lay Trtistees of the University. 
May-June, 1950 
By ROBERT T. STOCK, '50 

The University Today 
Even if the Soviet Union weren't a Com­

munist dictatorship, the current crisis be­
tween Russia and the West would be incW­
table, says English historian Herbert But­
terfield in the April issue of the "Review of 
Politics." 
According to Profccsor Butterfield, the potential conflict is based on old problems that don't have much to do with differ­ences in ideology. The most important issue he says, is "whether Russia should dominate those countries of central and eastern Europe which run from Poland, through Czechoslovakia and Hungary to what we now call Yugoslavia and the Balkans." 
Instead of international conferences as a means of solving world problems, Butterfield proposes a return to "the older methods of diplomacy, which still recognize the per­sistent fact in all human relations—the in­entable conflict of human wills." Our only hope for peace, he maintains, lies in an ob­jective "historian's view" of international disagreements. 
-*­Dr. Mario Einaudi, son of the first full-term president of the new Italian Republic, delivered a series of eight lec­tures in April on "Christian Democracy in Western Europe." Dr. Einaudi, son of Italian president Luigi Einaudi, is professor of govern­ment at Cornell. He was brought to No­tre Dame by the University's Committee on International Relations. 
In his lectures Dr. Einaudi traced the development of Christian democratic parties and discussed concrete govern­mental programs in France and Italy. 
Five groups of midshipmen from Notre Dame's NROTC unit will go to sea short­ly after summer vacation begins. Thirty-one sophomores and 16 seniors will cruise on the U.S.S. Missouri and two divisions of destroyers. Twentynseven other seniors wiB join various ships of the Atlantic Fleet to receive training as junior officers. 
Others in the program will take aviation training at Pensacola, Fla.; amphibious training at Little Creek, Va.; and Marine training at Quantico, Va. The Notre Dame midshipmen will be among 6000 reserve offi­cer candidates from 32 colleges participating in the training program this summer. 
Two Notre Dame musical organiza­tions began their annual Easter Concert Tours on Easter Sunday in widely sep­arated parts of the country. 
The Glee Club opened a week-long Eastern tour with an appearance on the "Toast of the Town" television program over the CBS network. The Ed Sullivan program paid special tribute to Notre Dame. 
Almost simultaneously the Concert Band presented the first of 16 concerts during a ten-day tour of the middle west 
Notre Dame's 40-voice Glee Club, under the direction of Professor Daniel Pedtke, appeared on Ed Sullivan's "Toast of the Town" program, Easter Sunday on CBS-TV. The group sang several songs, including "Ave Maria" and a spirited arrangement of Notre Dame Tunes. Special guests at the show were Mrs. Bonnie Rockne and her daughter, Jean. 
and Rocky Mountain areas. Its first ap­
pearance was in Sterling, 111. 
The Glee Club, under the direction of 
Professor Daniel Pedtke, sang in To^\•n 
Hall, New York; North Arlington, N. 
J.; Buffalo, N. Y.; and Toledo, Ohio. 
Director H. Lee Hope led the Band in 
Effingham, 111.; Kansas City, Mo.; Mc­
Pherson, Kans.; North Platte, Neb.; 
Cheyenne, Wyo.; Colorado Springs, Colo., 
and Topska, Kans. 
Dr. Stephen D. Kertcsz, former Hungari­
an minister to Italy, will join the Univer­
gty's faculty next September, it has been 
annoimced by the Rev. Howard Kenna, 
vice-president in charge of academic 

affairs. 
Dr. Kcrtesz, in voluntary exile from 
Commimist-dominated Hugary, has been 
named an associate profcnsor of political sci­
ence. He will teach one course on the de­
velopment and structure of the UN and an­
other entitled "American and Soviet Poli­
tics in Eastern Europe." 
Dr. Gerhart B. Ladner, associate pro­
fessor of history at Notre Dame, has 
been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship 
to help him in preparing a book on 
Christian reform during the Middle 
Ages. 
Dr. Ladner began preparation of his new work while on his present leave of absence at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton. The book will trace and integrate the effects of reform in Christian society from St. Augustine to about 1500. 
Another Notre Dame faculty member has been named a member of the Institute of Advanced Study, according to an announce­ment by Dr. Robert Oppenheimer, director of the Institute. He is Father Azstrik L. Gabriel, O.Praem., a member of the Medi­aeval Institute faculty at the University. 
Membership in the Institute at Princeton is bestowed annually upon a select group of scholars in the sciences and humanities to enable them to continue higher research in specialized fields. Father Gabriel, on leave of absence from Notre Dame, will join men like Dr. Albert Einstein and Dr. Oppen­heimer, atomic energy expert. 
Father Gabriel's project will be prepara­tion of representations of the different as­pects of mediaeval academic life as they have been illustrated by miniatures of the twelfth to fifteenth centuries. He will also prepare a literary interpretation of these miniatures through the use of contemporary scholastic texts and vernacular literature. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Although they boosted by 15 points the score that made them national champions 


Kettering Will Speak at June Symposium 
among naval EOTC units, the Univer­sity's Navy rifle squad had to be satis­fied with second place in the Hearst De­

Marking Opening of New LOBUND Lab 
partment of Defense Rifle Tournament. 
First went to Fordham's Air Force 
ROTC unit. 
Led by Junior Donal J. Murphy of Hawthorne, N. J., who fired a score of 194, the N.D. sharpshooters compiled a record of 939 out of possible 1000 points. Murphy was the only rifleman in the contest to shoot perfect scores in both the standing and kneeling positions. 
Dean Clarence Manion of the College of Law was awarded a gold medal by the Free­dom Foundation for delivering one of the ten best commencement addresses of 1949. In his talk at the finals awards meeting of the foundation in New York City, Dean Manion declared that the "modem passion for big government is an indication that our people have despaired of their ability to govern themselves." 
Other Freedom Foundation Awards went to Herbert Hoover, John Foster Dulles, Father James Keller, founder of the Chris­tophers, columnist George Sokolsky, and others. 
Denis N. H. Wright, British superin­tending trade consul at Chicago, was principal speaker at a dinner meeting which highlighted the third annual World Trade Conference May 11 in the College of Commerce. 
Wright spoke on "Dollar Gap: The British Foreign Trade Problem," climax­ing a full day of addresses and panel discussions on phases of world commerce. More than 100 businessmen from all over the nation attended the conference. 
The laboratories of the Notre Dame De­partment of Electrical Engineering have received an instrument demonstration panel as a gift in memory of Walter Welch, his­torian of Clearfield County, Pa. Elmo E. Moyer, '29, a nephew of Mr. Welch, built the panel and presented a paper on it be­fore the American Institute of Electrical Engineers at their June, 1947 meeting. 
According to L. F. Stauder of the Depart­ment of Electrical Engineering, the panel will be a welcome addition to the dept. as a teaching aid and in demonstrating the behavior of conventional types of instru­ments in circuits having potentials and cur­rents of irregular wave form. 
Professor Richard J. Kuhn, winner of the Nobel Prize for chemistry in 1939, delivered the Reilly lectures in chemistry at the University this month. Professor Kuhn is director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Medical Research in Heid­elberg, Germany. 
May-June, 1950 
Charles F. Kettering, vice-president and research consultant of the General Motors Corp., will deliver one of the principal addresses at a symposium to be held June 21 and 22 in conjunction with dedication ceremonies for a new Germ-Free Life Laboratory in the La­boratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame (LOBUND). 
The symposium, which will be develop­ed around the theme of "Science and So­ciety," will feature nationally-prominent scientists and industrialists as speakers. Purpose of the symposium is to focus attention en some problems arising in the contemporary world regarding pos­sibilities for scientists and the responsi­bilities of the public toward scientists. 
Professor James A. Reyniers is direc­tor of LOBUND. The new Germ-Free Life Laboratory, which contains new ap­paratus for the rearing of a colony of germ-free animals for science, will af­ford facilities for increasing the capa­city of LOBUND to not only investigate germ-free life and its applications, but also to expand or increase the production of germ-free animals. 
Mr. Kettering, who will speak at the June 21 session of the symposium, is the inventor of a fever machine which has proved eff'ective in the treatment of sev­eral heretofore incurable diseases. His studies of chlorophyll and photosynthe­sis have earned him high esteem. He presently is engaged in medical re­searches relating to the treatment of cancer. 
Mr. Kettering became associated with Edward A. Deeds in the organization of the Dayton Engineering Laboratories Co. (Delco) in 1909, to develop electrical starting, lighting, and ignition appara­tus which he had invented. He invented the Delco farm lighting system during this period. 
In 1946, Mr. Kettering established a private research laboratory which was taken over in 1920 by General Motors and in 192a moved to Detroit as the Re­search Laboratories Division of General Motors Corporation. The latter organi­zation, operating under his supervision, has been responsible for such refine­ments for cars as ethyl gacolins, Duco lacquer and crankcase ventilation. 
Another of Dr, Kettering's develop­ments was the two-cycle Diesel engine, widely used in the railway and industrial fields. His most recent work has been with high-compression engines for cars. 
Noteworthy among the honors that have come to Mr. Kettering are the Sullivant Medal, the John Scott Memo­rial Award, the Franklin Gold Medal, the Gold Key of the American Congress of Physical Therapy, the Honor Medal Award of the A.S.M.E., and the John Fritz Medal Award. 
Six students in the Air Force ROTC unit at Notre Dame were awarded medab for leader­ship and scholastic ability at May 8 inspection ceremonies. Above, medab are presented to Ralph W. Dixon, Long Beach, Calif.; Lyle N. PeaiGon, Twin FaDs, Idalio; Robert L. O'Con­nell, Reading, Pa.; James F. Jacobs, Bloomington, III.; and Edward L. Burke, Gary, Ind. Making the presentation b CoL Donald Wilhefan, who headed the inspectiMi party. William A. Whiteside, Phildelphia, Pa., was also awarded one of the medab. 

New Buildings 
(Continued from page 3) 
nary generosity to Notre Dame but also his insight into its needs. 
"Parents of the students, alumni and all visitors who would like to enjoy the campus atmosphere will be most wel­come at the Morris Inn and shall ever hold Mr. Morris in deepest g'l-atitude for this wonderful benefaction." 

One of the first letters of thanks which Jlr. Morris received was from Mr. Leo B. Ward, president of the Alumni Association. In it Mr. Ward thanked Mr. Morriss for his efficient and businesslike ways in advising with the University authoi-ities in the administration of the aifairs entrusted to the Board of Lay Trustees. 
"With the current propaganda toward federal aid to education," Mr. Ward wrote, "and with the not unnatural con­sequence of federal conti-ol of all edu­cation, your example should be most gi-a­tifying to all the alumni as well as the good fathers and professors. 
"Once again, in behalf of the National Alumni Association, accept from me this expression of appreciation for your kind­ness and generosity." 
The Morris Inn, three-story brick and stone construction and housing 100 guests, will be situated at the main en­ti-ance of the campus. It will cost §800,000 to build and §200,000 to equip. Its appointments will include a first floor lobby, one large dining room and two or three smaller pi-ivate dining rooms. Guest rooms will occupy the second and third floors. 
Father Cavanaugh pointed out that 

the Morris Inn will aff'ord living space 
and dining facilities for all persons visit­
ing the University, and will be especially 
convenient for members of learned soci­
eties attending conventions and sym­
posia. 
The University's atti-action for schol­ars attending such functions has been most recently evidenced by the Natural Law Institute, the January Soviet Sym­posium, and the cui-rent panels on La­bor-Management. 
The building erected through Mr. O'Shaughnessy's generosity will be called the O'Shaughnessy Libei-al and Pine Arts Building, and will be situated at the eastern end of a new quadrangle, the western end of which is closed by the Rockne Memorial. Its exact location is expected tj be just east of the Engineer­ing and Commerce Buildings. 
The Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, now in the University Libraiy, is ex­pected to be moved to the new building, where space for the University's per­manent gallery will be provided. 
Summer School Round-Up 


University Again Offers Summer Session Curriculum in Cliurch's Sacred Liturgy 
The imposing list of special summer schools at Notre Dame continues to grow. These arc the latest announced: 
LITURGY—.\n academic program in the 

Church's liturg>' will be conducted June 19 
to .•\ugust 11 by the Department of Religion 
under the direction of Father Michael A. 
Mathis, CS.C. 
Graduate students in the program, which 

will also be taught on an undergraduate 
level can earn a master's degree in liturgy 
by completing four summer sessions and 
writing a. dissertation. 
.'\mong the teachers for the session will be 

the Rev. Jean Danielou, S.J., professor of 
Christian Origins at the University of Paris; 
the Rev. Balthaser Fischer, professor of Lit­
urgical Science at the Rudolphinum in 
Trier, Germany: Dom Patrick Cummins, 
O.S.B., of Conception .•\bbey, Mo.; and the 
Rev. H. A. Reinhold of Sunnyside, Wash. 
TE.\CHING—Catholic principles of eco­

nomic and social justice will form the frame-
Mr. O'Shaughnessy, one of the na­

tion's outstanding Catholic laymen, serv­
ed in 1940 as chamberlain to Dennis Car­
dinal Dougherty, who was papal delegate 
to the Eucharistic Congress held that 
year in St. Paul. 
He is a Knight of the Holy Sepulcher, 

Knight of Malta, and a Papal Chamber­
lain of the Sword and Cape. He is a 
native of Stillwater, Minn., and presi­
dent of Globe Pipeline Co., and of the 
Lario Oil and Gas Co, He organized 
Globe Oil and Refining in 1917. 
The Fi-ed J. and Sally Fisher Memo­rial Hall \rill be constructed, under pro­posed plans, in the open space between the dining hall and the Rockns Memo­rial. Its architectural pattern will follow surrounding buildings, and its four storeys will house approximately 200 students. 
Departments of Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics will be accommodated in the new science building. Its total cost is estimated .at §1,750,000 and its con­struction was not assured until the Greater Notre Dame Campaign reported its goal achieved. 
Two atom smashers will be transfer­red to the new structure on its comple­tion. Besides research in peacetime pos­sibilities of atomic energy, the new sci­ence building will house the University's radiation chemistry project, a joint en­terprise of Notre Dams and the Atomic Energy Commission. 
Present plans place the building south of the gymnasium, and between it and the present chemistry building. 
work of a Catholic Teachers Workshop .Auc. 
7-11. 
The program, open to instructors in com­

merce, finance, and the social sciences, will 
include lectures by nationally known educa­
tors and business executives. Topics to be 
discussed include "The Need for Social 
Order," "Communism," "Nationalization," 
and "Lalx)r Unions." 
The Workshop will be under the direction of the Catholic Business Education .•\ssocia­
tion. Reservations must be made before July 10 by writing Sister M. Gregoria, B.V.M., Mundclein College, 6363 Sheridan Rd., Chicago 40, 111. There is a §15 fee for room and admission expenses. 
JOURN.ALISM—A. special journalism 

course, tailored to fit the needs of high 
school publication moderators, will be offer­
ed June 19—.Aug. 11. 
Under the direction of Professor Edward 

A Fischer of the Department of Journalism, 
the moderators will study the general tech­
niques of publication and the specific prob­
lems usually connected with high school 
newspapers, yearbooks, an d magazines. 
Copies of each adWser's school publication 
will also be anal>'zed critically during the 
latter part of the course. 
During five classes a week, the modera­
tors will study news, feature, and editorial 
writing, as well as page make-up, proof­
reading, headline writing, and the selection 
and cropping of photographs. 
VOCATIONS—The Fourth Annual Vo­
cation Institute will be held July 20-23, it 
was announced by Father John H. Wilson, 
CS.C. 
To supplement the "Integrated Vocation 
Plan" which was worked out at the Insti­
tute last year, special emphasis will be given 
to the personal approach and to the par­
ticular problems of modem youth which af­
fect their attitude toward vocation. 
RADIO—^Two weeks of actual broadcast­
ing will be included in the pair of radio 
courses to be offered June 19—.Aug. 11. 
Brief dramatic shows, as well as inter\-iews, 
radio talks and musical programs, will form 
a regular part of the curriculum. 
The courses, "Radio Production Proce­dures" and "The Fundamentals of Broad­casting," will carry regular college credit and will be taught five times a week. 
HISTORY—.\ workshop covering mod­em teaching problems in histor>' and geog­raphy will be held June 27-July 25 for high school teachers of the two subjects. 
Both workshops are under the direction of the Department of History, headed by the Rev. Thomas McAvoy, CS.C. They will carry graduate credit. 
Other special summer schools, announced in the March-April issue, are the second annual Writers Conference, sponsored by the Department of English, June 19—^.\ug. 25; and a Catholic School Administration Work­shop, June 27—^July 25. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 


Alumni Clubs 
Eighteen Alumni Clubs have cratributed $18,717.25 so far in 1950 
Akron 
Paul A. Bcrtsch, thrcc-tfrm president of the Ak­ron Club, was named the club's "Man of the Year" at its observance of Universal Notre Dame Xight. Bertsch is vice-president of the Rohner Papei Co. 
The Akron Club's new president is William Ahem. Other officers elected arc Thomas S. Mar-key, v-p; Thomas .•\mcr, secretary*; and Edward Barest, treasurer. 
The club's board of directors will consist of the officers, Bertsch. and Stephen Wo'miak, William 0*Neil, Hugh Colopy, Frank Steel, Thomas Bot-sum, and Joseph Kelly. 

Baltimore 
Father John J. Cavanaugh, CS.C , was guest of Imnor at the Baltimore Club's celebration of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night, a cocktail party and dinner at the F.mersou Hotel. Daniel Culhanc, *23, regional director of the Boys Clubs of .\mcrica, gave the main address—on "The Destiny of Our Youth in an Atomic Age." It was carried by Mu­tual's Baltimore outlet, WCBM. 
Toastmastcr for the dinner was the club's retir­ing president, Franklyn C. Hochreiter. Others at the speakers table were the Most Rev. Lawrence 
J. Shehan, D.D., V.G., auxiliary bishop of Balti­more; Ver>- Rev. Francis X. Talbott, S.J., president of Loyola College; Baltimore Mayor Thomas D'AIes­andro; and the club's new president, Edward F. Sporl. 
The Baltimore Club's "Man of tlic Year" scroll for 1949 went to President Hochreiter. He also re­ceived the traditional gift for retiring presidents, an engraved, automatic, sterling silver jigger. 
A feature of the obser\'ance was the presentation of the club's Catholic Press Trophy, an annual award to the outstanding Catholic high school news­paper in the archdiocese of Washington and Balti­more. This year the trophy will be shared by Mt. St. Agnes and Mt. St. Joseph high schools. Father Cavanaugh presented the award to Carmilla Corcoran of the Agn«ian and Paul Boettinger of the Mt. St. Joseph QuilI. 
Besides Sporl, the new officers installed UND Night were Bill Hartman, v-p; Felix Melody, sec­retary-; Fred Holl, treasurer; and Dr. Br>cc Smith, chairman of tlic program and entertainment com­mittee. 

Boston 
In the Dorothy Quincy Suite of Boston's new-John Hancock Insurance Building, members of the club, their families and friends met on March 19 to watch movies *>f the '49 football season and of the campus in color. President John Moran, '30, introduced to this gathering his idea for bringing into a "Boston AssfHrlation of Notre Dame" those friends of the University in this area who wish to activate their interest. Members of tlic association will pay annual dues and they will participate in certain club activities. 
The annual meeting for the election of officers was held on April II at the Harvard Club. Joe G;irtland, '27, chairmanned the nominating com­mittee assisted by Art Brady, '49, and Dick Hcr­lihy, '48. The new president is Jack Nye DulTey, ex ^35; vice-president, P. A. Tofuri, '36; sccretar>'» Chuck Patterson, '44: treasurer, John R. Herbert, '28. In addition to these officers, a board of di­rectors was elected: 1950-51—Dick Hcrlihy, '48, and Michael Manza, '45: 1950-52— Hugh F. Blunt, '24, James R. Dooley, '22; 1950-5S— Cummings M. Gi­ardino, '29, and John V. Moran, '30. John Bres­nahan, '45, is one of three additional directors to be appointed annually for a one-year term by the president. 
town Na\-y Yard for a dinner-dance. The new officers were installed during this evening. 
At a meeting of officers and directors on May 8, plans were made for a club retreat, to be held for us by the Holy Cross Fathers at Stonehill Col­lege. Northeaston, Mass., July-14-I6. The retreat will begin Friday evening and end with an early supper on Sunday afternoon. Other activities sched­uled for tlie summer arc a get-together of alumni and students who are presently attending Notre Dame; and a family outing for club members. 
We arc all pleased to note that Coach Frank Leahy will be in Boston on ^lay 25 to receive recognition, together with Mrs. Franklin D. Roose­velt and Eddie Cantor, for his outstanding work in the promotion of racial and religious under­standing'. A citation will be presented to him by the Massachusetts Committee, Catholics, Protestants and Jews.—Chuck Patterson, *44, Secretary 

Buffalo 
.According to a report from Secretary* John P. Shine, the Buffalo Club has elected four new di­rectors. Tliej-'rc Joseph A. Battaglia, Anthony E. Brick, Jr., Charles E. Ernst, Jr., and Joseph F. R>-an. The club's ladies auxiliar\' has lately spon­sored a number of parties, ranging from a square dance to a cocktail party. 

Central Illinois 
.Alumni Secretary* Jim Armstrong underlined No­tre Dame's amazing progress in the last 20 years in his talk at the Central Illinois Club's celebration of Universal Notre Dame Night. Armstrong called special attention to the four new buildings the Uni­versity will erect within the next year. (Sec news section.) 
The club's "Man of the Year" award went to Charles G. Corcoran. Club President Stephen Gra­likcr made the presentation. Speakers besides Arm­strong included Father Raymond O'Connor, pastor of the Church of the Little Flower, and James R. Fitzpatrick. 
Michael Seyfrit was toastmaster for the dinner meeting, James Costa was chairman, and Jerry Mc-Clone w-as co-chairman. A special feature of the club's obser\'ance was a ten-minute discussion on the theme of Universal Notre Dame Night, broad­cast over Springfield station WCVS before the din­ner. In the discussion were Ed Mahoney, staff an­nouncer and former N.D. s!udent, Graliker, Rev. James O'Hara, Decatur, and James Carroll, co-chairman of the Foundation in Springfield. 

Chicago 
An enthusiastic crowd of about 500 members of the Notre Dame Club of Chicago, their families and friends attended the Universal Notre Dame Night dinner in the grand ballroom of the Drake Hotel April 15. One of the largest crowds ever to appear at the annual obsen-ance, the group j^'as highly appreciative of the dinner and program pre­vented them. 
Chief speaker of the evening was Father Joha 
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the Uni*-ers£t>'. Present also as honored guests were Dean Clarence (Fat) Maaioa) of the Notre Dame College of Law, who was awarded a certificate as the outstanding lay professor at the University for 1949, and Ar d Wai^, sports editor of the Chicago Tribiin:, who received a plaque as the outstanding alumnus for the Chicago area in 1949. 
Committeemen credited with the success of the evening include General Chairman Edward I&ibaa; tickets, Hobey Mumane; reservations. Lew Iternan; mailini;, Justin Maduewicz and Emmett O^ciU, and publicity, Joseph D. A. McCabe. The work was under the direction of the club president John Lacey, and the general planning of ticket handling was initiated by Jay RcyntJds, club treasurer. Others assisting the committee were A. C. Stepfaaa, Fred BcGUeBbci?, Dan CConnell, Jim O'Kccfc, and toastmaster Jolm McGoorty. 
Notables who attended the dinner Included Mr. Maurice Goldbatt. 
Father Cavanaugh paid tribute to the generosity of Chicago alumni and their friends in particular, as well as all the alumni and friends of Notre Dame. In earnest of their good will and fi­nancial contributions he announced, as a long stride toward the University's blue-print for the future, the impending construction of four new-buildings. He described the goal towards which Notre Dame' is now working as one ithicb it-ould involve, on the material side, construction of tmits at an estimated cost in excess of $22,000,000. The four buildings next to be erected would, he said, cost in the neighborhood of $5,000,000. 
Dean ^fanion, speaking in his usual arresting fashion, thanked the Chicago club for his award, as did Arch Ward. 
The group paid heartfelt tribute to a choral group selected from the Glee Club of Rosary Col­lege, who offered a varied repertoire of selections as entertainment.—Joe McCabe 

Universal Notre Dame Night found the members The Houston Club's new officen are (L to r.) Ray B. Keating, '35, president; F. X. and their ladies at the Officers' Club of Charles-Pendarvis, '45, v-p; John C Rhein, '36, treasurer; and John B. Lang, '35, secretary. 
May-June, 1950 
'Jif'» .« 
'-" • yt -«V' 

7 • • '% 
The new Dearborn Club gathers on the far side of the pool table for its first group picture. The shot was taken at the club's St. Patrick's Day meeting at the Dearborn Inn. 

Cincinnati 
The Cincinnati Club celcbraiod UXD Night with a golf parly and dinner at the Dcvou Countr\' Club. Park Hills. Ky. Bob Bischoff handled arrangements. 

Cleveland 
Tom Enright chainnanncd the Cleveland Club's Easter Dance .April H in Clevcland*s Carter Hoi?l. Income from the dance went to help the club's jcholarsbip fund for vouzig Clevelaiiders enli-rin^ N.D. 
The club's annual Rocknc Memorial Mass and Communion breakfast was March 26. Father \1nce Mooney, the priest wiio baptized Rockne and found­er of the Youth Department of the XCWC. was guest speaker. Club announcements cmpliasized the opportunity for members to make their Easter duty as a group. Jack Elder, the club's new president, was in charge of arrangements. 
The Cleveland Club's other new officers, elected UXD Night, are Viclsr GuK-assy, vice-president: Florence J. XfcCarthy, secreian,-; and Jack Doyle, treasurer. 
Clayicn G. Leroux was awarded the Cleveland Club's ^'Man of the Year" certificate at the club's obser\ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. Leroux, placement c^.'ctor at the Monarch .Muminuni Mfg. Co. in Cleveland, is chairman of the club's scholar­ship committee. 
Club Secretary Flo McCarthy reports that a Thursday noon Xotre Dame luncheon club has again been formed in Cleveland, meeting weekly in Rohr's Restaurant. The club holds informal bull sessions at a "round table*' in the rear of the restaurant. 
Committees are being formed to handle the Cleveland Club's summer activities, which will in­clude the annual golf party, summer dance, picnic and other family doings. 
The club's annual student prize was awarded to two students this year—Bernard J. Endress and Kcnyon F. Snyder. Presentation was made at the campus club's Mothers Day Communion Breakfast by Alumni Secrctar>' James Armstrong. Each re­ceived $25. 
Aim of llie student prize, which goes to the man or men most active in tlie Cleveland Club of Xotre Dame, is to assist deserving students and promote the campus club. Cleveland alumni feel. too. that the prize competition encourages contacts and friendly relationships between students and alumni. 

Connecticut Valley 
Xc"-officers for llic Connecticut Valley Club, elected UXD Xight, are MatthcH' C, Meskill, '29, 101 Greenwood St., Xeu-Britain, president; Don­ald F. McManus, 142 Garden St.. Forestville, first vice-president; Frank D. Ahern, '29, 61 Evergreen -Ve., Hartford, second vice-president; Paul J. Mc­Cormick, '40, 130 ElmfieJd St., West Hartford, sec­retary; and Timothy J. Murphy, '24, 9 Hughes St., Hartford. All the addresses arc in Connecticut. 
The club held iLs annual Universal Xotre Dame Night observance with a dinner meeting at the Hotel Bond, Hartford. It was one of the largest and most enthusiastic turnouts of the year. 
Club members were given a comprehensive pic­ture of the progress being made in the Univer­sity's building program by president Bill Reid, who urged members to continue their efTorts with their brother alumni across tlie countr\-, the fruits of those efforts becoming dally more evident. 
—Don Foskett 

Columbus 
The Columbus Club celebrated UXD Xight with an informal cocktail party, followed by a short program and buffet supper at the Seneca Hotel. 
The Rev. Leonard ScanncII» O.Af.I., was guest speaker. The club's "Man of the Year" award went to Dr. Tom Hughes in recognition of the progress the club has made under his guidance as president for the past two years. 
Xew officers installed at the meeting were John Gcddes, president; Joe R)*an, v-p; Bob Echenrode, treasurer; and Al Frericks, secretar\'. 
The club's last previous meeting', ZVIarch 23, fea­tured a sliowing of the S.M.U. game movies nar­rated by Athletic Director Ed Krause. Ed Cant­welPs report on the club's under^xTlting of a room in the new Science Building, in memor\-of the late Ray Eichcniaub, was adopted and approved by the membership. 


Dallas 
This Is the last time I will have to worrx-about those "Plexse get your copy in by . . ." notices from the .-\LUMXUS. That will be Bill Bro^m Jr.'a, department henceforth, Bill having been elected secretary* at the April 18 meeting. 
About 45 members turned out for the meeting in the Melrose Hotel held to celebrate Universal Notre Dame Night. New officers installed included Jim Walsh, president; Uoyd Bellamy and Johnny Sierra, %ice-presidcnts; John Darroutet, treasurer: and Bill Bro^m, Jr., secretary-. 
Ed Ha^ r was presented with the club's first "Man of the Year" award following a mall poll of the membership. Ed, who was outgoing president, was cited for his outstanding leadership during his two terms as president and for Ins work in con­nection with the Notre Dame-S.M.U. game last December. 
Before turning over the meeting to the new pres­ident, Ed read an acknowledgement from the Uni­versity thanking the club for donating $2,292 to the Foundation. This represented the net proceeds from the S.M.U. pre-game rally which the club. at its Jan. 31 meeting, voted unanimously to turn over to the Foundation. 
There were a number of new faces at the meet­ing including Bill Singer, who recently moved to Dallas. Bill is field puldic relations director for the Securltv Bankers Management Corp. of Wilmington, 
Del. 

Another new member of the club, who, however couldn't get to the meeting, was Richard (Red) Smith, formerly of Chicago, the N. Y. Giants pro­fessional team and the Green Bay Packers. Red has been added to the scouting staff of the Dallas Eagles baseball club. 
Unfortunately I didn't get a list of all the new members attending the meeting but I did learn of sei'eral new additions to local Notre Dame house­holds. Johnny Sierra's second daughter, Susan Lynn, arrived on Feb. 16. Joe Hagar*5 first, Lydia Mar>-, arrived on Dec. 14. Not to be outdone, brother Ed Haggar announced that his new son, James Jo­seph, weighed 8J4 lbs. when he arrived on Feb. 16. 
Jim Simmons is the new president of the Dallas chapter, Te.\as Private Fliers Association. Jim Walsh was a recent speaker at a luncheon meeting of the Dallas chapter. Chartered Life Underwriters. 
Lee Shipp, the legal eagle, recently opened his own law offices in 712 Great National Life Bldg. Since I have ray office in the same building, we bump Into each other frequently in the elevator. 
And to wind up this column it may be pertinent to mention that In a recent pnll of the employees of the Dallas Morning News, Bud Goldman of the advertising staff was nominated for the title of "Mr. Personality." Bud doesn't know who bis unknown admirer is, but his picture was printed in the 
Harry Hogan, past president of the Aliinmi Assodation, was guest at the Hawaii Club's UND Night celebration. Hogan, who stof^ied off in Honolulu on his way to the Orient, is shown with club President Thomas Flynn and v-p Jack McAuliffe. The Hawaii group is one of the youngest in the Notre Dame alumni family. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

papcr*s house organ along with other nominees. Xo results of the voting were available at press time.—John Moran 


Dayton 
The Dayton Club held a social and dinner meet­ing on Universal Notre Dame Night in the Miami Hotel. Twenty-nine members were present. 
The "Man of the Year" award was presented to Euf^cn: Mayl, an alumnus. Mr. Mayl later gave a speech on the promotion of the Notre Dame Foundation program. 
Ralph McrGehee, an alumnus, and at present on the coaching staff of the University of Dayton, talk­ed in the possibilities of tlic Notre Dame coming football season. 
New officers were elected and are as follows: 
Andrew Aman, '30, president, 618 Ridgedalc Rd., 

Dayton 6; Edward C. Stciner, *44, vice-president, 
130 Rosewood Dr., Dayton 5; Robert Raney, *48, 
secretary, 516 Red Haw Rd., Dayton; James Col­
lins, '32, treasurer, 17 Triangle Ave., Dayton 9. 
Plans for a picnic Jor students now attending the 

University were arranged. The date for this oc­
casion will be set at the earliest possible time after 
the closing of the school term.* Purpose of this pic­
nic is to welcome these boys into the club and to 
introduce thrm to the members. 
—Robert F. Rancy 


Denver 
This years obser\ance of Universal N.D. Night was one of the highlights of club activities since before. the war. Interest ran high before the event and that night many new and old faces were to be seen, 85 in all. A committee headed by Thomas 
J. Gargan made and executed plans. Those on the committee were: Thomas Currigan, James Hanlon, Arthur Gregory and Dr. Arthur Starr. 
The afTair was an informal one and held at Ernie's Supper Club. An attractive and varied menu w-as offered and tlic club itself subsidized part of the cost of the meals so that an inexpensive time could be had by all. The ser\-ices of an expert accordionist was obtained and the chatter and pl,i}t­ter was relieved by strains of Notre Dame songs as well as popular ditties. An intensive publicity cam­paign was waged in accordance with the aim of bringing the scholastic achievements of the Uni­versity into focus. Stories were printed in the daily papers, the Catholic news weekly, and were aired over two radio stations two days prior to Universal 
X.D. Night. 
.•\s part of the agenda, Thomas Currigan, the new-president introduced the officers for the year 1950. They are, besides the president, John Coyne, vice-president; Arthur Gregory, treasurer; and Thomas Gai^n, secretary. James Hanlon, the retiring presi­dent, presided as masier-of-ccremonJes and Dr. Dan Monaghan gave a ver>- interesting talk on the ed­ucational achievements of the University. As he pointed out the new needs that have arisen in terms of buildings, laboratories, etc. Chuck Cassidy vol­unteered a $100 contribution and he was matched in this amount by Dr. Monaghan. A total of $200, therefore, was fonvarded to the University as a memento of this year's celebration. 
The club commemorated the memory of the late Knute Rockne by attending Mass and receiving Communion in a body on March 31 at Holy Ghost Church. The Rev. James McShanc, S.J., an alumnus, celebrated the Mass. Ed Owens was the capable chairman of this activity. 
All parochial and public high school seniors in­terested in competing for the annual Denver No­tre Dame Club's scholarship are contacting Charles Haskel, scholarship chairman, ^fany applications have already been received from boys all over the state who arc interested in attending the University. 

Dearborn 
The Notre Dame Club of Dearborn has been organized with a charter membership roster of 46 active and five associa'.e members. The club receiv­ed its charter from the Notre Dame Club of De­troit on Universal Notre Dame Night, which it celebrated Jointly with the Detroit Club at tlie Detroit Yacht Club. 
Emmett Walter, editor of the Houston "Chromdc,'* receives the Houston Club's "Man o( the Year" citation from President Charles S. Atdunson (left) at UND Night festivities. Watching arc (right) Leighton F. Young, dub treasurer, and R. CcHiroy Scoggins. The head* top in left background belongs to Larry J. KeQey, dub secretary. 
Officers and directors of this latest addition to the list of Notre Dame alumni groups are; president. Jack Courtney, '25; first vice-president, Jerry Way-no, '47: second vice-president, Tom Dore* 49; sec­retar>-. Bill Riley, '21; and treasurer, Pete Keman, '49. Directors are: Jerry Hanrohan, '27; Charlie Schlegel, '28: Joe SuIHvan, '36; Tom Tucker, '49; Tom Egan, '48; John Kilbane, *42; Ray Fitzgerald, '40 Eugene Rhcaume, '28; and Jerry Sarb, *48. 
.A. vcr\- active and x-aricd activities program for the year has been laid out by the club. It was launclied St. Patrick's Day night with a stag party held at Dearborn Inn. Father Hector J. SauHno, pastor of St. Bernadet e*5 Parish, Dearborn, was welcomed as chaplain and his talk featured the evening. In addition, two Notre Dame mo\*ies were shown. 
On .April 28 the club held its first informal dance at the K. of C. Club in Dearborn. The club^s first annual Communion and breakfast as a group was set for May 21 at Chaplain Father Saulino's church. Members and their families received Holy Communion, followed by breakfast at Dearborn Inn. 
In June the Notre Dame, Michigan, and Michi­gan State clubs of Dearborn are jointly sponsoring a semi-formal dance at Dearborn Inn. 
During the summer months two golf parties will be arranged, and at least one picnic will be held for members and their families. 

Des Moines 
New officers for the Des Moines Club are Joseph 
E. Casey, '41, president; Robert M. Newgard, v-p; and Ben Condon, '49, secretary-treasurer. President Casey's address is 832 Des Moines Building, Des Moines, Iowa. 
The club's last social event was a banquet for the 
N.D. track team and Coach Doc Handy after the Drake Relays, April 29. Members brought along their wives and sweethearts to hear Athletic Di­rector Ed (Moose) Krause, guest speaker. 
Other events planned for this year arc a summer party (probably a picnic), an excursion to the Iowa game next fall, and a holiday formal dance between Christmas and New Year's Day. 

Detroit 
The Detroit Club sponsored the Glee.Club in its April 29 appearance at Mar>-grove College Audi­roriura. Several members were hosts at dinner par­ties before the performance. 
Father Theodore Hesfaorg^, C.S.C., executive vice-president of N.D., was guest speaker at the Detroit Club's celebration of UND Night in the Detroit Yacht Club. John J. Gonnan was toast­master for the dinner, for which there were 270 guests. 
Father Hesburgh and club president T. J. Moran jointly presented the Detroit "Man of Year" award to Hugh Dean, vice-president of General Motors. 

Eastern Illinois 
Members of the former Danville Club voted UND Night to change tlie name of their organization to the Eastern Illinois Club. Its membership will in­clude alumni from Areola, Champaign, Danville^ Hoopstown, Mattoon, Paris, Tuscola, and all points in between. 
Twenty-five members gathered for the Eastern Illinois Club's obscr\'ancc of UND Night. TTiey heard Herman A. Zitt of the Foundation office discuss the University's new building program. Jolm Beltcn was toastmaster for the dinner. 
New board members arc Joe Baner, '48; Jofca Young, 'St; Tom Monahaa, '31; Ed Layden, '41; Leo Hahne, Jr., '49; and John Kearm, '29. 
Monahan and Ralph Daltoa were appointed co-chairmen for a summer picnic to be held at the Areola Country Club. 

Eastern Indiana 
Howard R. DeVault was picked' as the Eastern Indiana Club's "Man of the Year" at its observ­ance of UND Night. Bin Cronin, the club's re­tiring president, presented the award. DeVault, who is personnel manager of the Muncie Gear Works, was also re-elected the club's secretary-trcasxircr. 
Other officers elected were WUiam S. McDooaJd, Indiana Bell Telephone Co., Kfuncie, Ind., presi­dent; and George Mitford, 212 Whites Ave., Ma­rion, Ind., v-p. DeVault's address is 801 W. North St., Muncie. 

Fort Louderdale ^ 
The Fort Lauderdale Club held its UND Night dinner meeting at Gina's Restaurant in Fort Lau­derdale. Club members decided to pick the winner of their "Man of the Year" award by a mail balloting. Gina's was picked as the club's summer meeting place. 
May-June, 1950 


Fox River Valley (Wis.) 
New officers of the Fox River Valley Club, elect­ed UND Nislit. are R€>bcrt Bernard, president; Gus Zuchlkc, v-p: and Neil J. McCarty, sccrct-irv-. Bernard's adrcss is 953 Higgins Ave., Necnah, Wis. 
A summer picnic for members and their wives is the nc\i hem on the club's social calendar. An ex­cursion to the one of tlic home football games next fall is also being planned. 

Greater Cincinnati 
The Cincinnati Club threw an Easter Party .April 8 at the town's University Club. The main idea was to sponsor one big affair during the year lo which club members could bring their wives and sweethearts. Jim Burke handled the rcser\-ations. 
The Cincinnati Club's May meeting featured a talk by Judge Edu-ard T. Dixon and the presenta­tion of the club's scholarship award for 1950. Louis Richter was guest of honor at the meeting. 

Grand Rapids 
Eighty members and guests of the Grand Rapids and Wcitcrn Michigan Club met for the club's obscr\-ance of UXD Night. Father Charles M. Carey, C.S.C, of the N.D. Department of English, was guest spraker. The club's "JMan of the Year" award v.-ent to secretarv'-re-elect Robert B. Linscy. 
.Another speaker at the banquet was Benny Sheri­dan, freshman football coacli, who outlined the Irish prospects for 1950. Sheridan introduced Jerrj" Groom, next year's captain. 
Other officers elected for the coming year (be­sides Linsey) are EdH-ard R. Dunn, 2309 Riverside Dr. N.E., president; James E. McDermott, 108 Auburn S.E.. v-p for tlie eastern sector; Leo h. IJnck, 211-12 Landreth Bldg., v-p for the western sector; and Philip G. Fritz, 1217 Bates St. S.E., treasurer. Linscy's address is 608 Michigan National Bank Bldg. .All the addresses arc in Grand Rapids except that of v-p Linck—his in Muskegon, Midi. 

Green Bay 
Thomas F. Heardsn is the new president of the Green Bay Club, His address is 135 Marsh St., \V. De Pere, AVis. Other officers elected Universal Notre Dame Night, arc John B. Sulli\-an, 211 Whitney St., Green Bay, v-p; and Patrick Martin, 2433 Beaumont .Ave., Green Bay, secretary-treasurer. 
Father F. F. Dupont, registrar of St. Norbert's College, was guest speaker at the Green Bay Club's obscr\-ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night. Father Dupont talked on the responsibilities of a Catholic college graduate. 

Harrisburg 
Notre Dame's prestige is finnly based on the ''training of the whole man" and not just on foot­ball. Dean Lawrence Baldinger of the College of Science told his audience at the Harrisburg Club's observance of Universal Notre Dame Night, 
''I'm trying, in all my talks and contacts," the dean said, "to emphasize the basic work in educa­tion of the University and to give due credit to the teachers and instructors whose day-by-day rou­tine builds the prestige of the school by trainins the soul and mind of its students." 
Noting some football facts from the pamphlet "Facts and Figures about Notre Dame" (which was quoted in tlie Harrisburg press). Dean Bai­dingcr added: 
"So many people Iiave the impression that the University's 5000 students are just out there throw­ing footballs around. Football is a show window, you miglit say. Department stores have shotv win­dows—but those show windows do not represent all that store has to offer. It's the same with No-Ire Dame's football show window." 
New Harrisburg Club officers installed UND Night were William J- Moore, president; Vincent Kedel, v-p; John J. McNeill, secretary; and Edward C. Smith, treasurer. Moore succeeds Edn-ard R. £c­kcnrode, Jr. 


 Hawaii 
Members of the Notre Dame Club of Hawaii gathered for the annual observance of Universal Notre Dame Night, ^vcre privileged to have as their guest one of the most outstanding graduates of Notre Dame—Harry Hf>gan, former president of the ,Alumni Association and the man who started the Foundation Fund. 
Mr. Hogan arrived in Honolulu on the morning of Universal Notre Dame Night, cnroutc lo the Far East- Be/ore departing that night lie bad given the local Notre Dame Club members an inspiration­al talk on Notre Dame, its great contributions to the world and its plans for the future. 

Other talks were made by Thomas Flynn, '35, president of the Hawaii Club, and Jack McAulifTe, *37, vice-president of the local organization. 
Other guests included eight members of the grad­uating class of St. Louis College, of Honolulu, who have been accepted for the freshman term at Notre Dame next fall. They are: John A. Bums, Jr., An­drew Lum, Jr., Kin Ming Wong, V. Roger Fer­nandez, Rtcliard Leong, Stephen .Araki. Richard Murata, and Valentine Chun.-^Tom Hopkins 

Houston 
Emmctt Walter, winner of a Croix de Guerre in World War I and a Texan journalist for many years, was auarded the Houston Club's "Afan ot the Year" scroll at the club's celebration of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. 
Waller, editor of the Houston Chronicle, was honored as a man *Vho by his outstanding achie\*e­ments, example, and relationships in the education­al, civic, and religious life of the community lias proved himself to be a Notre Dame man in the rich significance ot moral, responsible leadership for which Notre Dame training equipped him." Tlic citation was read and the scroll presented by Charles Atchinson, retiring president of the Hous­ton Club. 

Indianapolis 
Trueman C. Rembnscb was named "Man of the Year" by the Indianapolis Club in its obscr\*ance of UND Night. Rembusch was honored for his stand on corrective measures to curb immorality in the movie industr>-. 
Dean James E. McCarthy of the College of Com­merce %x'as guest speaker. Harr>* Scott ^v•as toast­master and Bill Holland vras citairman for the dinner. Har\-e>- Foster was elected president at tlie meeting. 

Konsas City 
Father Alvin Deem, O.F.iL, was guest speaker at the Kansas City Club's UND Night obser\­ancc. held at the Hotel Phillips. Father Deem is pastor of St. Joseph's parish in Kansas City. 
New officers elected at the meeting are Edw'ard 

J. Rcardon, president; Eduard P. O^Connor, v-p: David P. Crooks, secretary; and \\llliam V. Mc-Lccse, treasurer. 
The meeting closed with the showing of the "Football Highlights of 1949." 
The Kansas City Club took part in the Kansas City Rockne Club's banquet obser\-ancc of the death of Knute Rockne, March 9. The alumni club's rep­resentative at the speakers table wxs President Robert Pcndergost. Ticket Manager Bob Cahill rep­resented the University. 

Kentucky 
Kentucky Club members took off their coats, un­tied their shoes, sat back, and enjoyed themselves at the club's obser^'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. No formal program was arranged except a four-buck dinner (at the Kingslcy Inn near Louis­ville) and election of officers for 1950. 
Jim Carrico reports on the Kentucky Club's new officers. They're Roger J. Huter, 336 Monohan Dr., president; Bcmie F. Bowling, 3936 Frankfort Ave., first v-p; William Palmer, Jr., second v-p Oscar C. Von Allmcn, Jr., sccretan'; Er\in Weilcr, 1925 Rich­mond Dr., treasurer; and James £. CosicIIo, \0&i Cherokee Rd., and Jim Carrico, 2905 S. Fourth, scholarship fund committeemen. .AH the addresses arc in Louisville. 

Los Angeles 
The Notre Dome Club of Los Angeles celebrated Uni\"ersal Notre Dame Night on April 18th. Un­fortunately, due to a mix-up of traveling itincrar>'. Father Thornton was not able to stay over to attend our meeting. His presence w*as required in San Francisco at the University Registrars' con­vention and the delay of another day was not pos­sible. 
Dr. Vincent Gorrilla was chairman of arrangc-
Jeff Cravath, football coach at the UnivcTuty of Soutftcm Galifonua, addresses the Los Angeles Club's UND Night gathering. Left to rig^t are Father John Lynch, CS.C; Rod O'Connor, master of ceremonies, borrowed fnnn the Red Skdton radio show, and Cravath. 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

A. F. (Bud) Dudley (left), president of the Philadelphia Cluh, receives the duVs ''Mam 
of the Year" scroll from UND Night chaurman Cliff Prodehl (right). Watching is Horseman Don Miller. 
mcnts and the president Louis Bcrardi (partner m the drug business in Toluca Lake with Frank Leahy) presided. He introduced Rod O'Connor, master of ceremonies, borrowed from the Red Skcl­ton program, who in turn introduced the other speakers and guests. 
Due to Father Thornton's commitments in San Francisco his paper on the educational and moral values of a Xotre Dame education was read in his absence by Leo B. Ward, national president of the Alumni Association, and was most enthusiastically received. \Vc were also favored with a short talk by Mr. Tenencc B. Cosgrove, a member of the Board of Trustees of the University. In addition, JefT Cravath, football coach of the University of Southern California, gave an excellent talk on the need of a foundation by all private schools, par­ticularly those of the reputation of Xotrc Dame. 
Father John L>Tich, former prefect of religion at Xotrc Dame and now chaplain of the Xotrc JJamc High School in the San Fernando Valley, gave an excellent account of progress on the University campus. (Father Lynch was transferred to this area the beginning of the current school year.) Cliarles Johnson, one of the editors of the archdlocesan paper. The Tidings, having the advantage of being an alumnus who graduated from another Catliolic university, gave his opinion of the accomplishments of graduates of Xotrc Dame. 

We were also favored with talks by Christy Walsh, Sr, (whose son, Christy, Jr., '49, did an ex­cellent job of obtaining newspaper publicity and a fifteen-minute radio broadcast), Harr>' W\ Flannery, and the Rev. Vincent Lloyd Russell. Mr. Joseph Scott sent his regrets by a telegram which was read at the meeting. He had had lunch with Father Thornton the day before and could not keep both appointments. 
Entertainment was supplied through the courtes>' of Vincc Presteraa whose current protege, Virginia Fait, favored us with several songs. Through John **Judgc** Carbcrry, a part of Bob Hope's entourage also entertained. Christy Walsh, Jr., was assisted in arranging the radio broadcast and the publicity by Leslie Raddatz, '33, who does publicity and public relations for NBC. 
Not the least of the notable events of the evening was the award of the "Man of the Year" scroll to Eugene C. Calhoun, who for two years had acted as sccrctar>' of the club and last year was* Its president. 
The meeting was particularly noteworthy by rea­son of the unusual number of those attending (some­thing over two hundred being present) and by the number of old-timers who came out for the meet­ing. The oldest in point of graduation was Mr. John Kelly of the Class of 1884.—Leo B. Ward 

May-June, 1950 


Memphis 
Father John H- Murphy, C.S.C, X'otre Dame's vice-president in charge of public relations, was ,^uest speaker at the Memphis Club's observance of UXD Xight. April II, at the University Club of Memphis. Father Murphy also met with the local Foundation committee at luncheon the same day. 
The club's ''Man of the Year** scroll went to Galrin Hudson, '13, Foudation chairman for Ten-
Some 125 members of the Madonna Circle of Memphis, which was also meeting at the University Club, joined the alumni group to hear Father Mur­pliy's talk. .According to club president Phil Canale, Father's remarks were exceptionally well received. 
Xcw officers elected April 24 were Eugene Po­desta, 263 Stonewall, PI., president; Joe Signiago, 2375 Lamare Ave., v-p; Daniel D. C^nale, 253 Bun­tyn, secretary; and Barney Feeples, 1304 Lutwiler .\vc., treasurer. .Ml the addresses are in Memphis. 
TIic election was held at a meeting at the Chris­tian Brothers College school, in conjunction with a showing of the S.ALU. game movies. 

Mid-Hudson Valley 
The new Mid-Hudson Valley club got off to a 6ne start with its UND night dinner, featuring the "Highlights of *49" movie. The club's first ofii­ccrs arc Frank Sanfilippo, '47, 51 Violet PL, Rhlnc­beck, X. Y., president; Henry J. Fischer, '3t, 197 
E. Chester St., Kingston, X. Y., vice-president; Richard McCabe, '48, 57 College Ave., Poughkeep­sle, X. Y.; and John C. Flanagan, '40, 17 E. Chest­nut St., Kingston, X. Y., treasurer. 

Mohawk Valley 
Father Tom Brennan, C.S.C, and Quarterback Bob Williams \vcre guest speakers at the Mohawk Valley Club's celebration of UND Night. Retiring president Don Fullcm was presented with the clu ^ "Man of the Year" award by his successor, £d Noonan. * 
Toastmastcr for the dinner, which was attended by about 225 members and friends, was Federal Judge Stephen Breiman. Brotfaer Martin John, C.F.X., was chairman for the obscr\-ance, and Tom Reagan did an especially good job of publicizing it. 
Club secretary Ed Sweeney reports that Williams made a wonderful impression on his UND Night and on the children who heard him talk at St. Francis de Sales High School, Our Lady of Lourdes School, the Crippled Children's Hospital, and the St. Anthony of Padua auditorium in Utica. 
The club's other new officers, besides Noonan and Sweeney, arc Bart O'Shea, 201 Federal Bldg., v-p; and Mike McGuirl, Jr., South and Mohawk Sts., treattturer.-NoiMuui's address is 102 Butler Ave., and SwccMT*s is 133 Addington PI. All the ad­dresses are in Utica, N. Y. 

Monongaheio Valley 
The Mon-Valley's largest gathering to date helped observe Universal Notre Dame Night. Some fifty persons were present. ^ 
The principal address was gK'en by Joseph Sauth, '33, Georgetown. An original and very well delhrcr­ed presentation on the subject of Church and State. Mr. Smith's talk was enthusiastically received by all. 
The highlight of the evening was the award of the Noire Dame "Man of the Year" to J. Vmcmt SotssoB. Ed Deaa gave the good plug to the Foun­dation in a short talk. 
The following new officers were Installed: Oiariei Moatgoniety, '33, president; J. Viacent Sobna, '26, vice-president; G»)rge C. Maitinet, *34, sec­retary; Ed Dean, treasurer. 
New faces included Verne Hnber, 32, and Art CrofUB, '40.—George C. Martinet 

Nebraska 
The Notre Dame alumni association of Nebraska met April 21st at the Pa.xton Hotel in Omaha. 
An election of officers was conducted and the following were elected: Fna k McGratk, Omaha. president; Mark Walsb, Beatrice, v-p; Ted Halpin, Omaha, secretary-treasurer. 
A resolution was adopted that we cooperate every way pf»sible with the Notre Dame Foundation in Omaha and Nebraska in order to help Mr. Edwstfd McKim and Mr. Gerald McGinley to carry on even further the splendid work they have done. 
Frank McGrath expressed some ideas he has for activities of the association which met with unani­mous approval. Frank recommended that we enqiha­size a spiritual theme as a background for all our activities. 
Tlie enthusiasm expressed by those atteniling this meeting indicates that you can expect to hear a lot about the Nebraska Alumni Association. 

New Orleans 
The New Orleans Club held its obser\*ance of UND Night April 13 at the famous .Amaud's Res­taurant in the French Quarter. Father Jolu Mvr­pfay, C.S.C., University vke-president in chai ^ of public relations, was guest speaker. Father Murphy reviewed Notre Dame's progress during the first half of the twentieth century and outlined plans for the Notre Dame of the future. 
Ofiicers elected are Karl Kaschewshi, president; Tom McMalMO, v-p; and Fktch Daiuds, secretary-treasurer. 
The new officers have large plans for events m the coming year, be^nning with a Ctmmitmion breakfast in May. Plans are already being made for the Tulane game next fall in New Orleans. 

New Jersey 
Ed (Mooie) Kranse, athletic director and basket­ball coach of Noti% Damej and Hn ^ Devore, head football coach of New York Uim-ersity, both mem­bers of the class of '34, shared speaking faonon at the New Jersey Club's celebration of .Universal Notre Dame Night at the Military Park Hotel, Newark, on Monday, ^ri l 17. The Jersey ahmmi presented Krausc with a check for $300 for the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Moose assured anxious Jersey alumni that de­spite the Big Ten ban on video, Notre Dame's home games with Purdue and Midiigait State will be televised this fall. Moose told reporters at a press conference that it had been decided at the annual NCAA convention m New York in January to study the video situation for another year be­fore making any decision. 
"There will be no change in Notre Dame's television policy until the NCAA institutes a defi­nite policy," Krause said. 
In his nqiid-fire talk. Moose reviewed the sports situation at Notre Dame. Discusung football pn»­pects, he pointed out that the loss of 13 of the 15 best players of last year was a severe blow a>d that Frank Leahy would have ample reason for pessinusm. 
15 

Left: Paul Fry, president of Rock River A^alley Club, with Mrs. Right, Don Hcnncssy, '39, athletic director of Catholic Conununity SherH'ood Dixon, wife of Lt. Gov. Sherwood Dixon of Illinois, as High, Sterling, III., hands Francis Dean the Rock River Valley Club's she admires scroll presented Dixon as the club's "Man of the Year.'* scholarship award. Both presentations were at UND Night ceremonies. 
Dcvorc said things looked a Itttic tough for the 

Violets this season and that building a first-rate 
football team at the New York institution was going 
to mean a lot of hard work. 
The speaker who got the most applause was Father Jim DonneUy, C.S.C., of the Class of '33, who is now doing mission work in Te.-icas. Father Donnelly, who used to live in Wcstficid, spoke with simple eloquence of his affection for the Jersey Club. He never offers a Mass without remembering the Jersey alumni. Father Donnelly said. 
Also on hand was the Rev. Henr>- De Baggis, C.S.C, Notre Dame faculty member who is doing research work in math at Princeton. 
Tom Hogan, '39, of Maplewood, club president, spoke. Bill Smallf '40, of Livingston, acted as toast­master.—^Btll Waldron 

New York City 
Robert Hamilton, '28, was presonii-d with the New York Club's "Man of tlie Year" award at the club's obserx'ancc of Universal Notre Dame Night in the Biltmorc Hotel. Hamilton, a member of the club for 22 years, and a former president, was founder and chainnan of its trust fund scholarship committee. 
Guest speaker at the New York Club's dinner was the Hon. Joseph B. Keenan. former assistant at­torney general of the United States. Keenan was cliicf of the International Prosecution Section of the Far Eastern Command, diargcd with the prose­cution of Japanese war criminals. 
Special tribute was paid at the dinner to Louis Reed in honor of the 50th anniversary of his grad­uation from Notre Dame. 
Other New York Club activities this spring in­cluded: 
The annual "President's Night'' parly May 10 at the Biltmorc. Father Jcrfm J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., 'was to be the club's guest and to answer questions 
about the University's policy. 
A Notre Dame Glee Club concert sponsored by the club April II at Town Hall. The concert, part of the Glee Club's eastern tour, was followed by a reception at the Biltmore. John McCaulcy was chairman for the event. The Glee Club was also featured on Ed Sullivan's TV program Easter Sun­day night and on several other radio and TV pro-grants. 
General Meeting, March 22. The Hon. Ir\'ing H. Sa>-pol, U. S. attorney for the Southern District of New York, ^vas guest speaker, Sa>pol was closely associated with the prosecution of Alger Hiss, Judy Coplon, and the 11 top Communists. 
Basketball Luncheon with guests Hugh Devore, Moose Krause, Herb Jones, Father Theodore Hes-burgh, C.S.C, the University's executive v-p, and Ed Schcidt, head of the New York FBI office. John 
A. Hoyt, Jr., was chairman. 
Plans arc being laid for a summer picnic and a prc-5chooI September dance. 

Northern California 
Notre Dame alumni, young and old, rambled in from all parts of Northern Califorina to meet, dine, elect and join in solemn thought and jollity when the Northern California Club met at Simpson's Restaurant in San Francisco April I7th, to cele­brate the 27tb annual UND Night. 
Father Louis Thornton, C.S.C., regbtrar of the University, the club's principal speaker, gave much food for thought as he brought to mind the long range needs of Notre Dame and the present plans designed to meet these needs. Father Thornton also evaluated the importance of Catholic education, ex­pounding on the significance of moral teachings coupled with academic instructions. 
In keeping with tradition, a plaque of special recognition was presented to Edward P. (Slip) Mad­igan as the Northern California Notre Dame "Man of the Year." Another deser\-cd plaque was awarded to Keene Fitzpatrick as a special recognition for his past 25 years of outstanding contribution and co­operation with *the club. 
Honored guests were Father James Doll, C.S.C., associated with LOBUND and presently studying at the University of California for bis doctorate de­gree. Also "Red" Strader, former coach of St. Mary's spoke. New officers were elected at the meeting for the year 1950. William T . Daly was chosen the club's new president; Atty George Thom­as, v-p; and Frank M. Perez, treasurer. 
President Bill Daly acknowledged the fine job done by the outgoing president Don AUen. He started the ball rolling by elaborating on some of the club activities now on the agenda. 
—Frank Pern 


Ohio Valley 
The Ohio Valley Club held its obscr\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night at the McClurc Ho­tel in Wheeling, W. Va. It was a stag dinner. 

Oregon 
"Rock's" 19th annivcrsar>- witnessed an occasion that would have won his appro\*al. The club and members the Board of Temple Beth Israel, Portland, were luncheon hosts to one of Notre Dame's few rabbi'sons. Rabbi Albert Plotkin, '42, of Spokane, who was pulpit guest that evening at the Temple. Rabbi Plotkin's beautiful tribute to Notre Dame will long remain a bright memory* to those who heard him. 
Over a third of the club membership turned out on less than 48-hours' notice to honor Rabbi Plot-kin. Club members were guests at the Temple con­gregation at a reception following the evening ser\"­ices conducted by Rabbi Plotkin. At the lundieon we were happy to welcome Him Maletis, who grad­uated in January, and Tom Trixler, '47, new Oregon representative for Van Camp Seafood, to their first club function. 
Universal Notre Dame Night was dedicated to our **01d Timers," men of classes tip to 1914, who have brought glory to Notre Dame and honor to themselves through their contributions to the life of their community. Guests of their fellow-mem­bers were J. J. McCarthy, ex '01, Judge Frank 
J. LoMrgan, 'M, Dominic L. Callicrate, '08, AVil­liam C. Sdunitt, 'l6, (Notre Dame Foundation western region director) William F. Clea%-er» "14, and Monisoa A. Cooway, '14. 
Other "Old Timers" unable to attend included Natt McDougall, Sr., ex '00, Walter Gcarin, ex '02, Jolm P. O'Hara, '02, Charles Baer, ex '08, James 
L. Hope. IH, and George W. FhUbrook, '12. Credit for this idea goes to Charlie Slatt, *33 
Very Rev. Thooias J. Tobin, '20„ S.T.D., J.C.D., LL.D., speaking on: "Duties of the Notre Dame Man To His Community," highlighted adequate low<cost housing and elimination of segregation as prime responsibilities in commmiity life. 
Ed O'Meara, M.A., '40, brought his best journ­alistic abilities to his chore' as toastmaster. Faced with the job of recounting some ot the history of each of the "Old Timers," Ed established him-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

^clf as one of the top masters of the art of easy dtsestion. 
Outgoing president Pete Sandrock, '39. was pre­5cn:ed an engraved desk pen set by Judge Lonergan on behalf of the club for his outstanding leader­ship the past year. The cooperation of Roy and Molin, Jewelers (Bob Molin, '40), and Dorwin J. Palmer, Jr., .'43, in the selection is appreciated. Pete thanked his fellow-officers and board members —^Dom Callicralc, '08, "Momc" Conway, '14, AL Hodlcr, '23, Tom Magse. '32, and Ed Scndstrom, M.A., '39—for their assistance. 
Officers elected for 1950-51 were: president, Oscar Quoidbach, '48; vice-president. Gene Afurphy, ex '16; secretary*, Tom Magec, '32, and treasurer Fred 
L. Cutmingham, '30. Board members named were Hugh Laccy, Sr., ex *16, and Bob Franz, '45. 
Recent additions to their families are reported by 

C. D. (Dave) Holman and Joe Knipa, ex '38. Wed­ding cake was on tap for Ken Kirby, '42, in March. 
Congratulations, boys! Dorwin L, Palmer, Jr., '43, led his Standard Insurance Company in Janu­ary production. Nice work, Dorwin! Hugh Lacey, Jr., '49, has joined the Travelers Insurance Co., where George W. Philbrook, '12, has been for many years. The Pliil Bartfaiaume, '28, agenc>' of Bankers Life of Iowa led all the otiier agencies in 1949 group sales. 
Fred L. Cunningham, *30, was chairman of the Portland Council Knights of Columbus annual bait after Easter. Fred says there is no connection between its financial success and his being with the 
U. S. General Accounting Office. 
Frank Kieman is making the Holy Year pil­grimage to Rome. Charlie Hirschbuhl, '22, recently spent several weeks in Mexico. Barney Macnab, '25, is heading for 25th Reunion as part of a pleasure-business trip east. 
If the .\LUMNUS reaches any Notre Dame man in Oregon who isn't on our list we would be happy to hear from him. 


Peoria 
James Kelly, '43, is the new president of the Peoria Club. His address ts 712 Butler St., Peoria. Other new officers are Leo Schrall, '28, 612 E. Ar­cadia, v-p; William Holbroch, 3916 Prospect Rd., Peoria Hts., secretary-; and John Wendland, 108 Long\'icw PI., treasurer. 
.-\ll-.\mcrican Leon Hart and his bride were guests of honor at the Peoria Club's celebration of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Hart entertained his audience with stories of N.D. football and gave special praise to the master psychology of Coach Frank Leahy. 
Ennio Arfaoit was named the club's *'Man of the Year" and presented with his scroll by Ralph John­son, head of the board of directors. Jim Kelly was installed as the club's president, succeeding Gene Slc%-in. A special talk on the importance of Notre Dame to young men was given by John Cassidy, Foundation governor for Illinois. 
Guests included Comie Clatt, former N D. and Chicago Card fullback; Arthur J. Bergstrom, Brad­ley athletic director; Jack Quinn, WMBD sports-raster and Max Seibel of the Peoria Star. 

Philadelphia 
The 27lh Universal Notre Dame Night was cele­brated by the city of its founding in the ballroom of the Warwick Hotel. Under the co-cliairmanship of Charlie Conley and Cliff Prodehl, an outstanding program was again presented. Father James W. Gib­bons, rector of St. Joseph's-in-the-Hills, Malvern, Pa. (site of local Notre Dame retreats), gave the invocation^ 
John H. Nceson, Jr., introduced A. F. (Bud) Dudley, rc-insta]]ed as club president, who, after words of welcome and a short address, in turn presented the club's guests. They included Hon. Gerald Gleeson, United States Attorney; Jim Leon­ard, football coach, Villano\'a College; Brother Paul, LaSalle College president; Jack Ryan, Bob Allman, Joe Novitsky, Philadelphia sportswriters; Vince Mc-Nally, business manager of the Philadelphia Eagles; Walter Barnes, also of the Eagles; F^td Nowak, former Notre Dame basketball great; and Judge Eugene Bonniwell, past president of the A.A.U. 
Toastmaster Con McCoIe, who handled the cam­pus testimonial to the team a few years ago, out­did himself with his Irbh wit and initiated the audience into the escapades of his imaginary pal '*Tom Dolan." 
Chct Grant gave the low-down on Notre Dame football—past and present. .\s an inno\-ation, Chet issued a special number of *"Under the Hat" dedi­cated to the local lads. 
The principal speaker, Don Miller, of Four Horse­men fame, stressed llic strength of America through her universities. He lauded Catholic education and expressed his deep satisfaction at having attended Notre Dame. 
Cliff Prodchl presented the "Man of the Year" award to Bud Dudley, club president, who was largely responsible for the success of our activities. 
Here are some of them: 
During the past year the club entertained fifty orphans from St? Joseph's Home on the trip to Bal­timore last season. The Communion Breakfast was the largest ever. A trophy in the name of our or­ganization was established to be presented annually to the most valuable football player in the Catholic League. The club received world-wide publicity when Jack Trinsey rowed in the Diamond Sculls in England under our auspices. The John H. Nee­son Memorial Scholarship Fund exceeds the ten thousand dollar mark. Bud attended a few dozen banquets and some thirty-odd other meetings, rep­resenting Alma Mater. Ever>'onc agreed his selection ivas a ivise choice. 
The ballroom presented a pleasing array of color, with the traditional blue and gold predominating in lighting and floral arrangement. A large replica of the seal of the University adorned the drapes behind the speakers. Fred MUler"s product, in miniature, graced the tables. 
The five hundred celebrants were unanimous in their opinion that the affair was an enjoyable suc­cess.—Bill Bums 
The Philadelphia Club will hold iu spring party June 17 at the Bala Coimtry Club. According to Bill Bnnu probably about 200 members and friends will attend the party. 
The club is already making plans for the first game in the new Irish food>all series with Penn at Franklin Field in 1952. 

Pioneer Valley (Moss.) 
The Pioneer Valley (Mass.) Club's observance of UND Night was an informal party at the Hotel Highland in Springfield. Speaker Jolm F. Shea gave an inspiring talk, according to Bill Hurley's report and revealed plans to brine t*'- University Band to Massachusetts at an early date. 
A special feature of the obser\*ancc was a round-table discussion of developments at Notre Dame and plans for the promotion of University interests by means of a more active club. The discussion was led by Henry Padden. 
New officers will be chosen at the club's next meeting, set for Dan 0*CooiiclPs Pynchon Park at Holyoke. Dan, Hurley adds, will ser\'e steak with all the essentials. 

Pittsburgh 
The Pittsburgh Club celebrated Universal X^tre Dame Night at the Pittsburgh Athletic Assbciatioa with a fine party and banquet. Cocktails and dinner were enjoyed by approximately 110 members and guests. This was the largest attendance in several 
years. 
The chairman of the program, Frank McSorley, introduced Father Joseph Lonergan, pastor of St. Bernard's Church, who said grace, and then pre­sented Captain Tom Hamilton, U.S.N., director of athletics at Uni\-ersity of Pittsburgh, who acted as toastmaster. Captain Hamilton was witty and efficient in introducing prominent guests and call­ing on Mayor David L. Lawrence for greetings, and 
Father Thomas (Corby Hall) Brennan, C^C, was goest speaker at the Soathera Tier (N.Y.) Club's UND Night celebration in Ehnira. Above ate Father Breonan, chib Secretary Paul McCabe (standing), and President E. Doi^jlas Bonhani. 
May-June, 1950 
on Lcn Casanova, the ncwiy appointed Put football coach, for a few remarks. 
TIic main speaker of the evening was Harry Stuhldrdicr, director of athletics, University of Wis­consin. Harrj* kept the large crowd captivated witli his stories of Notre Dame in the '20's. and with many original and not-told-bcforc anecdotes about his own football career, Rockne, and the great trams of the past. Harry is a finished speaker and stor^'-teller and his visit was enjoyed by all. 
Xotrc Dame "Man of the Year'' was Hugh C. Boyle, president judge of Orphans Court of Alle­gheny County. The scroll was awarded to Judge Boyle for exemplary Christian quah'tics in com­munity, business, and family life, and for consis­tent adherence to just and honest principles. The presentation was made by club president Eugene 
J. Co>'ne. Judge Boyle addressed the membership and made a sincere speech of thanks. 
Evcrv'one enjoyed the Univcmal Xight celebra­tion very much and a rousing vote of gratitude should go to Frank McSorley, who arranged details, secured speakers and guests, and ran the affair in business-like fashion. George Kingslcy and Eugene Goalie were able assistants. 
The club elected Jack Monici'crdc president fur the coming year. Jack accepted the responsibility and promises an active year, but requests the help of all members. Ed McHugh was made \*ice-prcsi­dent, and LarT>- Smith treasurer. Bob Fulton was re-elected secretary. 
Tlic outgoing officers dcser\c thanks and com­mendation for a good job and for sincere effort at all times: Eugene COPTIC, Regis LavcIIc, and George Kings]e>-. 
John McMabon and a staff of helpers have been working to secure subscriptions for a Notre Dame Club memorial window in the new St. Paul's Re­treat House Chapel. 
The club members wish to congratulate Father \lnce Brcnnan upon his elevation to the first vice-presidency- of the National Alumni Board of Di­rectors. We all know Father Brcnnan has the abil­ity for the job and we wish him all possible success. 
Weekly lunclieons arc still being held at Dutch Henr>-\ second floor, every Tliursday at 12;15 p. 
m. If you're a member, wc expect you to come in once in a while. If you're a visitor in town any Thursday, why not come in and say hello. 
—Bob Fulton 
OLDEST ALUMNUS DIES 
Notre Dame*s oldest lining alumnus, Jer­omc MatthcH-s of Denver, Colo., died April 27 at the age of 94. Mr. ftfatthews had been an active member of the Dcntxr Club, whose sccretarx', Tom Gai^an, informed us oC his death. A number of club members said the rosan* for Mr. Matthews and attended his funeral Mass. 

Rhode Island 
Rliodc Island alumni and friends of-Notre Dame obser\'ed Universal Notre Dame Night at a dinner meeting. Very Rev. Robert J. Slavin, O.P., presi­dent of Providence College, made available the college's reception lounge and dining room, dec­orated in blue and gold for the occasion. The ges­ture of Father Slavin shows the close relation be­tween the two schools. 
Following dinner the speaking program was open­ed by President Russ Hunt, '39, with expressions of welcome to the 125 alumni and friends. Lt. Gov. John McKieman, toastmastcr, introduced Father Cyril V. Dorc, O.P., dean of studies at Providence College, who extended greetings from the college in the absence of Father Slavin. 
The giie« speaker was John B. Kanale)-, *09, co'Chairman of N.D. Foundation of Greater New-York and member of the National Executive Com­mittee. Mr. Kanaley ga\-e a ver>- spirited talk cov­ering the growth of the University, stressing the ever helping hand tliat the administration offers to the students. He emphasized the need for the future construction program and the importance of gifts to the Foundation Fund. 
The evening program closed with Father Dorc offering Solemn Benediction in the College Chapel with all the guests attending. 
Officers elected and installed for the coming year are Russell L. Hunt, '39, president; John A. Mc-IntvTc, MO, vice-president; Joseph L. McDonald, '39, treasurer; James J. Sulliran, '4fi, secretary; and .•\ndrew J. McMahon, *35, recording secretary. 
Plans are under way for the summer dance to be held the middle of June.—^Andreu- J. McMahon 
Rochester 
One hundred fifty alumni, wives, sweethearts, and friends welcomed Dr. James Rcyniers, head of LOBUND, to the Rochester Club's obscr\'ance of Universal Notre Dame Night at the town's Univer­sity Club. After his impressive and informative talk. Dr. Rcyniers was saluted by his audience with **Happy Birthday" in honor of his 40th birthday the day before. 
The club's **Man of the Year" award went to Joe Flyno. Toastmastcr for the banquet was Jerry Flynn, who presented Joe's award. V-P .^1 Roclic was chairman, and Bill- O^Toole handled publicity. Past presidents at the tabic included Jack Hedges, Bni Bell, and Joe Geragfaty. Dick Sulli\-an, 29 Elm dorf St., Li the new president. 
Before his UND Night talk. Dr. Reyniers made sex-era! appearanres in Rochester. He \\-as inter­viewed for the Hmes-Union; appeared on Jerr>­Flynn's radio program over WRNY along with club officials and Father Richard Tormey of the Catholic CourierrJoumaJ; conducted a seminar at tlic L'ni­versity of Rochester's Strong Memorial Hospital; and visited the Yawman Metal Products, Inc., with \l c Ya%vman. 
The next day Dr. Rcyniers visited Distillation Producu Industries, a division of Eastman Kodak and Dr. C. E. K. Mces, vice-president and di­rector of research at Eastman Kodak. 
Rock River Valley (III.) 
Sheiwood Dixon, lieutenant governor of Illinois. was the surpri^d recipient of the Rock River Val­ley Club's **Man of the Year" award at its oh­»er\-ance of Universal Notre Dame Night. 
In announcing the award Paul Fry* club presi­dent, said that **wc of the Notre Dame Club of the Rock River Valley certainly believe that wc have as one of our members a man who has proved in many wavs that he is dejcr\'ing of this award and our commendation. He has shown out­standing leadership in his communitv, state, and nation as one of the highest executive officers of the State of Illinois and as one of the chief execu­tive officers of the Illinois National Guard. In all ways he has ser\Td with honor tn himself, his fam­ily, and his friends and to the University and our local club. . . ." 
Another award, the club's Notre Dame scholar­ship, went to Francis Dean of the Community Hish School. Presentation ivas made by Coach Don Hen­nessey, of Community High, chairman of the club's scholarship committee. 
Other speakers were Vincent Carney, who de­scribed his spring visit to Rome, and John Bums, assistant alumni secretary and managing editor of the ALUMNUS. Burns, who discovered at the din­ner that he had scr\-ed in the same division with Lt. Gov. Dixon in AVorld War II, told club mem­bers and their guests of the University's constant efforts to build responsible moral leadership 
Paul Fry was re-elected president at the meeting. Other officers named arc John W. Hitdicock, v-p; Ray M. DeCotiney, treasurer; and Gerald Jones,' secretary. New board members are Joseph M. Bitt­orf, Georse W. Monroe, and Clifford F. Hyland. 
The University's Concert Band appeared Easter Stmday night in Steriing, 111., under the sponsor­ship of the Rock River Valley Club. The concert, a benefit for the club's scholarship ftmd, was the first in the band's spring tour. An excerpt from the concert program provides a fetching historical note oa Notre Dame bands: 
"According to Rev. Arthur Hope in his book Notre Dame 100 Yean," the program notes, "about the turn of the century the band was to give a concert from barges floating on St. Mary's Laic at Notre Dame, with the audience seated on the slop­ing bank. All went well until the last member of the band stepped aboard the barge, which sank. No band members were lost, but there is still a set of musical instruments at the bottom of the lake." 
It is believed that no such accident marred the band's performance in Sterling. 
Saginaw Valley 
John N. Cacklcy, Foundation staff project di­
Jack Griffin presents the St Louis Club's "Man of the Year" scroll to Joseph B. McGlynn, rector, told the Saginaw Valley Club about future 
founder and first president of the club. Others at the table are Dr. Matt Weis, Tom Treacy, developmente planned for Notre Dainc .at the club's observance of VKD Night at the Republic Hotel 
Warren Hcllrung, Father John Murphy, C.S.C., University vice-president, Vince 
in Bay City. Neil Baniett was chairman for the 
Fehlig, and Jim O'Neil. 
eii-ent and gave a welcoming address. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

C. Wafcr, fonHT pm f Mtrr gcaefal, toU Ac Scnrntoa Club's Uaivcnal Notn Ihmc NiiJkt gMh^ eriag. . 
Father Ramon A. DiNardo (right) gave his first blessing to the Washington (D. C ) Clab at its UN D Night celebration. Father DiNardo had just been ordained the day before. With him are Father Bernard Ransing, C.S.C., chaplain, and Thomas J. Flyim, new president. 
Carl W. Doozan, 723 S. Fayette St., Bay City, Mich., is the new president of the Saginaw Valley Club. Other officers elected US D Night arc Paul Bryslbout, 1400 Carroll, v-p; Albert Baumgarten, 807 Emerson St.. secretary, and ^^nc;llt Boyle, lOt \V. Wenona, and Neil Bamctt, 2328 Morgan St., members of the board of directors. 
Other club business handled Universal Notre Dame Night included formulation of rules for win­ning and retaining the club's Saginaw Valley Pa­rochial League trophy, and the decision to include members' wives and Michigan State rooters in the Notre Dame-MSC game excursion next fall. 
St. Joseph Valley (Ind.) 
Jim Crowley was guest speaker at the St. Joe Valley Club*s Rocknc Communion Breakfast, April 2, on the campus. Among other things, Crowley explained how he picked up the nickname '"Sleepy." ''I attended Notre Dame four years." he said, "but this is the first time I ever got to breakfast here." 
.After the breakfast Crowley and Coacli Frank Leahy placed memorial wreaths on tlie graves of Rockne, George Kcogan, and John Nicholson. Joe Hannan was in charge of arrangements for tlie breakfast. 
Retiring president Fronins M. McsHck reviewed the year's activities at the St. Joe Valley CIub*s celebration of UND Night in the University's Fac­ulty Dining Hall. The Club's "Man of the Year" award went to Jack Miles, '47, who is still battling polio in St. Joseph Hospital. (For more on Jack, see cut in news section.) 
New club officers installed Universal Notre Dame Night were John G. Farabaujh, 1705 A'cKinley Ave., South Bend., president; Charles Sweeney, 1204 Orchard St., Dowagiac, Mich., v-p.; Robert A. Holmes 422 Niles .\vc.. South Bend, treasurer; and Laurence E. Danbom, 611 Gladstone .Ave., South Bendj secretar\*. New members of the board of directors arc Jerome J. CrowIe>-, Jr., Paul .-V. Fer­gus, Karl G. King, Jr., and John Perkins. 
Guest speaker was Thomas J. Stritch, head of the N.D. journalism department, who talked on "Town and Gown"—the University's relationships with South Bend. 
On the entertainment side were tap dancer Allen Powers and the S.M.U. game movies, narrated by Hugh Bums. Karl G. King, Jr., was chairman for the dinner. 
St. Louis 
The St. Louis Club held a very successful cele­bration of Universal Notre Dame Night on Monday night, April 17th. A capacity crowd filled the Crys­tal Room of the Sheraton Hotel to pay honor to Notre Dame and to our good friend. Father John Murphy, G.S.C. 
The St. Louis Club establbhed what we hope will be a precedent for all other alumni clubs to fol­low by inducting the fathers of all Notre Dame men as honorary members of the club. Mr. Fdififf, the father of four Notre Dame men, Paul, Vlnce, Lou, and Gene, accepted the membership in be­half of all the fathers. 
Joe McGlynnn, founder and first president of the Notre Dame Club of St. Louis in 1913, received the "Man of the Year" award. 
Roland Dames, chairman of our Scholarship Com­mittee, introduced this year's winner. We also pre­sented Father Murphy a check for $5,000 to add to our Scholarship Fund. 
Joe McGIynn, Roland Dames, and Fred McN'efll retired as members of our board of directors. The four new board members are Bob ConCannon, Jade SuUtii'an, Tom McDermott, and Vince Fdilig, who were re-elected for a four year term. 
The new officers are Vincc Fehlig, president; George Wrape, Warren Hellning, and Tom Mc­Dermott, vice-presidents; and Jack Sulli\*an, secre­tarj'-treasurer. 
San Diego 
Emmett A. McCabe was named "Man of the Year" at the San Diego Club's celebration of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night April 21 at the Fort Rose­crans Officers Club. 
On April 18 the club held a smoker and business meeting and elected its officers for the year. They are Emmett McCabe, president; Lt. Gen. Francis 
P. Mulcahy, USMC (ret.), v-p; GeraJd R. BiU. sec­retary; Walter C. Steffen, treasurer; and the Rt. Rev. Msgr. Francis O. Oit,. chaplain. The club's board of directors will include the officers and re­tiring president AI Stewart. 
On the annivcrsar>' of Knute Rockne's death the club attended Mass and received Communion in a group. On Universal Notre Dame Communion Sun­day last December, club members,- their wives and families received Communion together and attended a ver>' successful Communion breakfast. Guest speak­er at the breakfast was the Ver>' Rev. Charles Bud­dy, bishop of San Diego. The club was joined in the obser\ance by the Newman Club of San Dcgo State College, 
The club was host to Father Lou Thornton, C.S.C., University registrar, at an informal gath­ering April 15. 
Scranton 
The 15,000 Notre Dame alumni in the stream of American life have been educated in a way of life that is the surest antidote to the influences of pragmatism and agnostic philosophy corroding American life and the world today. Hon. Frank 
Most of the trobble m American life hm bees caused by the aiSieremU of the phikiphies oC Jote " Demy and WilliaM Jaaes aad rroriatcrf « bw by Oliver WewkU HobKs. Mr. Walker ea^bMoed. The result has bcea tlwl too mamr of our edacatcd youth today hxn goae into AimticMm. Efe widi ao faith in the moral law, no recogm^im of the nat­ural law and no concept of the cl^mty of ana, be sUted. 
Cottstructioa of btukti^s valued at ^ laillioa to^ meet the growing needs of the Uuvexsty' wilt be commenced this year, Mr. Walker iaforaicd A e assembly. Walker is natioaat diaxrman of the cxeca­tive coonnlttec in diarge of the Fouadatios, spear­heading a national drive to enlist the *'**nr*Tl aid of Notre Dame alunihi and friends for. the' biuldias program. 
Fathers of Notre Dame stodents now on caia­pus were ^tedal guests at the evening together with other friends of Notre Dame.' .. 
Graduate of the oldest class pesent was Jam*a D . Jofdaa, prmninent local attorney, who was a mem­ber of the 1907 class. 
King's College, W^lkcs-Barre, Pa., under the sv^n*. vuioD of the Holy Cross Fathers who ;uc also In chai^ of Notre Dame, was represented fay Kcv. JoKpli Havey, C.S.a, and Kcv. Joaepli Tcakr. C.S.C.—Toay Webber (See Wakes-Barre neu^.) 
SoMth-C^ifrol WiscoBsiB 
Fraak Dorle was named "Man of tKe Yn^ ' u the Saatli4>ntnl Wiicaasia CSnb's oinervaace.of UND Night. Jack Doyle, hk son, accepted the' award in his father's behalf. The seiuor Dorle was visiting his wife," who is HI in a Calfoniia hospital, and so was unable to attenct 
Guest ^leaker at the liinner was Attomey' John\ 
J. Walsh, boxing coach at the University of Wis­consin. Walsh showed fihns of recent Wisconsui facoG-. ing matches. 
New officers elected were Fiaak Haaailaa, Dodgeville, president; KanI Bnmaaa. 915 Spaight St., Madison, v-p; and Edsrin C. ISdk, 1 S. Piadt­ney St., Xfadison, secretary-treasurer. 
The club will again hold a summer oatmg at the Dodge Point Chib, this time on Saturday, Jnae M. Tharmaa P. tSmg and WiKam Gonica are co-chairmen for the affair. Paul Bramun was diair^ man for the UND N^ t observance. 
Southom Tior 
Father Tom Brcanaa, C.S.C., was guest'speak«k-. at the Southern Tier (New York) Cldb's celebration of UND Night which was, incidentally, the dob's first meeting. Twenty members were ,on hand for the dinner, and all of them, reports Setretarv ftml McCabe, will be happy to see the affable Father Brennan again whene^xr he's around Ehnirai. Father Brennan also spoke at the Mohawk Valley observ-: 
ance. 

Edwin Boobam presided at the Southern Tier obr. seryance. The club will meet again early in the summer for a formal presentation of its charter.­
South Jcrsoy 
The infant South Jersey Club held its first Uni­versal Notre Dame Night celebration April it. in. Camden. Guest speakers included Hn ^ Denre, the Rev. Francis J. Hegarty, Camden diocese stqienn­tendent of schools, and Father Rolaad G. Ssmo*. itscfa, C.S.C., former head of ^ the Department of Religion at Notre Dame, now in advanced study at the Catholic University of America. 
After the dinner, club members and their guests saw the Christopher movie, *'You Can Chaise the World." Val Dcale handled arrangements for .the dinner. 
Spokono 
Thooat Gerran^ty, class of 1904 and outgoing treasurer of the Club was cited as oae of the most' loyal Notre Dame alumni and presented the an-', nual award as the outstanding Notre Dane' nua of. 1949. 
President Jalu (yNcill nude the presentation at 
May-June, 1950 
LScryniSiS 

-Vorllu-rn  Californja—Paul  Cushin^.  IJill  l^aly.  n;w  president.  Father  James  Doll.  C.S.C..  chaplain.  Hawaii—Club  played  host  to  students  frci  the  
Kdward  Madisian.  "Man  of  the  Year."'  Don  Allen,  retiring president.  Father  Louis Thornton.  C.S.C.  year.  With  tlieiii  are  (hark row)  a rio ol  
.\.D.  registrar and  !;uesl.  Kd .Maisa. and Bill  Yore.  Guest  Harry  Hoiian.  and Vice­ 
S03tE  
J]l%9  «  

Washimrton—J. R. Pat Gorman, retiring-
president, receives |)la(iue for his services 
Central Illinois—Michael J. .Sevfrit. loastniaster; J allies Costa, chairman: Jim .Xrmstron!;, alumni sec­from Ray Ueeley. retirini; president of the 
retary and i^uest speaker: and Jerry McLone. co-c hairman. board of iiovernors. 
\\'a.shin;;ton. D. C.—New olTicers elected were Kdward J. O'Brien, Jr.. secy.; Rochester—Prof. James Reyniers. LOBUND head (center) wai; guest. Will.: I'i Paul C. Tully. v-p: Thomas J. Flynn. pres.; and John P. Braddock. treas. him are .Mstrr. James .McAniff. chaplain, and Richard .Sullivan, presideni. \\ 
!aa5C.srrp*:-J.iVi4i:-.V ??^T; 
>iS;i/<V5KIiS3.5&!£rSS7r»ri7f 
ihe Islands who will enter Notre Oanie1 of aliinmi—President Thomas I'lynn. ee-Prct:dent Jack .McVuliffe.   next  Baltimore— -Clul)"s Catholic Press Trophy went to Paul Boettiniicr (left) of the Mt. St. Joe "Quill" and Camill: 1 Corcoran of the .Mt. St. As;nes ".Aijnestan." Holdins; the trophy is Father John J. Cava­nam^h. CS, C . University president and the cliihV, siiiest.  
VIGHT  
PIVTUKES  

St. Louis—^Jack Grillin presents cluh's check for SoOOO to Father John H. .Murphy. CS.C . N.D. vice-president in charge of public relations. Baltimore—I'rank Hochreiter. ".Man of the Year." Dan Culhane. Father Cavanaugh. and Ed Sporl. 
Pittsburiih—Hon. Hu!;h C. Boyle (risjlit) sets "Man of the Year" scroll. Oreijon—.Muiiini community leaders were honored. .Vt left is Very Rev. Watchins; are Chairman G. Franklin .McSorley and President Fus^ene Coyne. Thomas J. Tohin. vicar general of th-.- Portland archdiocese, suest speaker. 
llic Universal Notre Dame Xight banquet in the Palm Room.. Desert Hotel, April 17. Gerraughty, a retired railroad man, has been active in the club 
since its oncin in 1W8. 
Election of officers for the year 1950 took place at the banquet with the following results: 
Vincent P. Slatt, president; Monk Albo, vice-president; Claire Keams, sccrctar>-; and Frank Her­ron, trca'iurcr. 
Retiring officers arc: John O'Neill, president; Frank Hcrron, vice-president; \1nccnt Slatt, secre­tary" and Tom Gcrraughly, treasurer. 
.At tlic Fcbniarv- meeting we showed the picture '"Highlights of Notre Dame" in the auditorium of Gonzaga University, Notre Dame alumni, their families and friends attended.—\lncent P. Slatt 
Tri-Cities 
Jerome C. Arnold, 2814 Famam St., Davenport, Iowa, was elected president of the Tri-Citics Club, Universal Notre Dame Night. Other new officers include J^iry (Moon) MulUns^ St. .\mbrosc foot­ball coach, v-p: James Doyle, secretar\-; and James 
C. Galligan, treasurer. 
The Tri-Citics CIub*s obser\-ance of Universal Ndtrc Dame Night look the form of a Mass at St. Mary's Church in East Moline and a Communion-breakfast at the Rock Island Arsenal Golf Club. (The church was designed by club member Bill Bembrock.) 
Illinois Lt. Gov. Sherwood Dixon, winner of the Rock River Valley Club*s "Man of the Year" award, was guest speaker. Dixon told 200 club members and guests that **the example we set by simple devotion to religion in the home can be more cfTectivc for peace than all the propaganda <Iisseminated by those who seek to lead.*' 
Retiring President Ralph Cor>-n announced that 
the iJub will soon present the Foundation with a 
$500 gift. The club's next big event, a summer 
party, was discussed at the breakfast. Any alumnus 
in the Tri-City vicinity not on the club's mailing 
list should contact Secretarj* Jim Doyle at 824 
Davenport Bank Building, Davenport, Iowa. 
Tri-State 
The Tri-State Club held its observance of Uni­versal Notre Dame Night at the Evansville K. of 
C. hall. New officers elected at the meeting were Robert Lamex', 517 Lewis Ave., Evans\"illc, Ind., president; Ray i^liak, Haubstadt, Ind., v-p; Robert Hargrave, 532 So. Bocke Rd., Evansxille, v-p; Jack Rumbach, 
325 W. Sixth. Jasper, Ind., treasurer; and Steve Enner, 923 S. Sixth St., Evansville, secretary. 
Secretary Enner reports a good turnout for the UND Xight celebration. 
Twin-City 
After sufTering through a typical Nftnnesota win­ter, the Twin City Alumni Club gathered for the annual Universal Notre Dame Night banquet at the Town and Countr>- Golf Club in St. Paul. The alumni, young and old, turned out to enjoy tlie dinner and program planned for this important evening. The annual election of new officers took place with the following alumni taking the reins for the year 1950-1951: 
MichatI Kcegan, '41, president; Bob Bach, '48. vice-president; Joe Shiely, '37, vice-president; Frank Biagi, '40, >ecretar>-: and Paul Qualy, treasurer. 
A golf party will be held on June 14th for the purpose of welcoming recent graduates to an ac­tive participation in the Twin City club. 
Washington, D. C. 
The Washington Club's 19ili annual Commemora­tive Mass for Knute Rockne was said March 26 at St. Matthew's Cathedral, with breakfast after­ward at the Carlton Hotel. Joseph L. Fitzmauricc 
•was
 chairman for the commemoration. Parents of Notre Dame students from the Washington area and members of the St. Mary's .Alumnae Association 

•were
 in*-iied. 


Tlie club's new officers (sec cut) arc Thomas 
J. FU-nn, 2018 37th St., S.E., Washington, prcsi­
22 
dent; Paul C. Tully, 3018 S. Arlington, .\rlington, Va., v-p; Edward J. O'Brien. Jr., 302 Penwood Rd.. Silver Springs, Md., secretary; and John P. Braddock, 4407 8th St., N.W., Washington, treas­urer. 
Washington Club members and their guests re­ceived the blessing of a newly ordained alumnus piicst at their Universal Notre Dame Xight ob­servance in the Touchdown Club. The priest is the Rev. Ramon A. di Nardo, '45. the club's guest of honor. A delegation of alumni had attended Father di Xardo's first Mass in St. Matthew's Cathedral .•\pril 16. 
J. Har%ey Daly, '28, director of public relations and personnel for Giant Food Stores, was named "Man of the Year" for his ser\'iccs as chairman of the club's placement committee. 
Among other guests of the club were Federal Judge .Ambrose O'Connell, Rep. Joseph P. O'Hara, '20, and the Rev. Bernard E. Ransing, '31, su­perior of Holy Cross College at Catholic University. 
The principals of five leading Catholic high schools In the Washington area were special guests of the club. They were Brother Clement, St. John's Col­lege High School; the Rev. William F. Maloney, S.J., Georgetown Prep School; Rev, Joseph Geib, S.J., Gonzaga High School; Rev. .Austin ^IcXamee, 
O.S.B. the Prior\- School; and Rev. Paul Dono­van, O.SS.T., Dc Matha High School, Hvattes\ille, Md. 
Thomas J. O'Reilly, '40, was chairman for the afTair. 

Western Washington 
In a prc-UND Night meeting, the ^Vestem H'ash­ington Club's board of directors elected club offi­cers for the next two years. They're W. Jerome Kane, president; A. Maurice Schafer, v-p; Patrick 

J. Goggin, Jr., secretary*; and Charles S. LaCugna, treasurer. 
The new board of directors, elected by mail, in­cludes August ^-on Boecklin, Tacoma representative; Morris E. Starrelt, represcnlative-at-large; Leo J. Cummings, Patrick J. Goggin, Jr., and W. Jerome Kane, Seattle representatives; and Emmett G. Leni­han and John P. English, ex-officio representatives. The ex-officio board members arc the retiring club president and the state governor of the Notre Dame Foundation. 
Activities planned for the next year include a summer dance (probably in July), a fall stag party, the Communion Breakfast in December, and Uni­versal Xotrc Dame Night next April. Tentative plans are also being made to charter a plane for an excursion to the Southern Cal game next fall. 
The Western Washington Club's "Man of the Year" award went to Charles F. Osbom, '38, at the club's €ibser\ancc of UND Night April 10 in Seattle. Osbom was honored for the outstanding job he has done over the past few years in re­organizing the club, and in particular for his ex­cellent chairmaning of the Washington game festiv­ities last fall. The presentation was made by retir­ing president John English. 
The club also unanimously approved a $250 do­nation to the Foundation's Science Building fund. 
West Virginia 
Dr. Lawrence H. Baldingcr, dean of the Col­lege of Science, highlighted the Universal Xotre Dame Night celebration at a dinner of the West Virginia Club April 17th at the Kanawha Countrv' Club, Charleston, Vf. Va. 
A very enthusiastic group of alumni greeted Dr. Baldinger who brought the local alumni up to date on current happenings on the campus. 
Arrangements for the gathering were handled by W. J. Kenney and A. H. Kesstng assisted by DaWd Kfoncrief and AVUltam J. Rcishman. 
While in Charleston, Dr. Baldinger was conducted through the new research laboratory of the Car­bide and Carbon Chemicals plant by Walter J. Toussaint, '28.—A. H. Kesung 
Wilkes-Barre 
Father WOUam C. Ha\-ey, C.S.C., Ph.D., S.T.D., professor of philosophy at King's College, was named the Wilfces-Barre Club's "Man of the Year" at its UND Night obser\-ancc. Frank C. Walker, chairman of the Foundation Executive Committee, was principal speaker. 
Father Havey, a 1920 alumnus, was founder of St. George's College in Santiago, Chile, and sen'ed as its president just before coming to King's Col­lege. 
Club officers for the new year are Edward J. Rowan, S4 W. North St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa., pres­ident; Joseph A. McHugh, 147 Church St., Ply­mouth, Pa., v-p; Joseph G. Neuwirth, 287 X. Sprague Ave., Kingston, Pa., treasurer; and Thomas 
M. Hi^ins, &i Ross St., Wilkes-Barre, sccrctarj*. 
The Wilkes-Barre and Scranton Clubs alternate as hosts in obser\-ing UND Night. Tliis year it was Wilkes-Barre's turn. (See Scranton news.) 
Hashing over old days at N.D. arc the prindpals of die Calumet Cluh's March 14 sports dinner at the Gary Countr>' Club. They're Jim Glam, dub president; Ed (Moose) Krause, Rocco Schiraill, Dean James McCarthy, of the College of Commerce, and Tim Galvin. Krause and McCarthy were guest speakers at the dinner. High school coaches and sports writers were inWtcd. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

Remember the Reunkm—June 9, 10, 11 
Alumni Classes 
Before 1900 
$850.00 contributed by II class members 

Word has been received by way of a clipping from John B. Kanaley that Francis P. Black, 86, wlio attended the University in 1882-83, died early last month in Auburn, Me. Mr. Black, who helped write the histories of several states, had been liv­ing in Auburn since his retirement in 1938. He is sur\*ivcd by five daughters. 
1901 
$80.00 contributed by 4 class members 

1902 
$145.00 conlributed by 4 class members 

1903 
$240.00 contributed by 9 class members 

1904 
$400.00 contributed by 9 class members 

1905 
$165.00 contributed by 4 class members 

Bernard S. Fahy, valedictorian of the class of "05, died of a heart attack March 8 at Rome, Ga. Mr. Fahy, a prominent business leader in Rome and a former president of the Catholic Laymen's As­sociation • o[ Georgia, had been awarded knight­hood in the Order of St. Sylvester by Pope Pius XH in 1946. A member of the Holy Name Society, the Society of St. Vincent De Paul, and the Knights of Columbus, \tr. Fahy was instrumental in the development of St. Marx'^s parish in Rome and in establishing a parochial school. He had been head of the Fahy Store in Rome since 1917. 
A pontifical requiem Mass was offered for Mr. Fahy by the Most Rev. Francis E. Hyland, auxi­liary bishop of Savannah-A'.lanta. He is survived by his wife, four sisters, and four brothers. 
Father Ernest A. Da\i5, C.S.C, died May 7 in St. Joseph Hospital, South Bend, after several weeks illness. Father Davis, ordained at Notre Dome in 1909, was a chemistr>* instructor at the University. He had just returned last year after teaching for 25 years at the University of Portland. Father Davis is survived by two sisters. 
1906 
$114,585.00 contributed by 6 class members 
1907 
$120.00 contributed by 6 class members 

May-June, 1950 
1908 
$135.00 conlribuled by 3 class members 

1909 
$2,740.00 contributed by 7 class members 
The ALUMNUS has recently learned of the death of A. L. Sonnhahcr, '06, Dec. 10, 1948 in Mid­land, Pa. Mr. Sonnhalicr, a veteran of more than 40 years in the steel industry, had been a vice-president of the Crucible Steel Co. of America. He was one of the ind«str>-'s experts in open-hearth steel production. Mr. Sonnhalter suffered a heart attack in 1946 and retired shortly afterward. 
ON VITAL STATS 
This month the ALUMNUS 

changes its policy on alumni vital 
statistics. Henceforth all births, 
deaths, marriages, and engagements 
among alumni will be recorded fvith 
the class of the alumnus in question, 
instead of being listed in a separate 
section. The change comes in re­
sponse to suggestions from a nmnber 
of readers who think that luiting 
such information >vith the class news 
would be a much simpler and more 
convenient arrangement. We think 
so, too. 
7970—40-Year Reunion 
$1,100.00 conlributed by 4 class members 
From FATHER MIKE: Speaking of the 1910 Reunion—this final .ALUM­NUS call will perhaps stir up some activity. Herr and Foley and Rempc will be on hand. We can count I am sure on "Red" Miller, Sorg, and I hope Bill Schmitt. That crew along with the men on the campus. Fathers Hcbert and Mathis and Mtsch (which sounds something like "Tinkers to Evers to Chance") ougt to make all ALUMNUS readers head for the campus. McEIroy, we arc counting on you. 
Some reference previously to Father Schcter and some of our stellar Latin students send an old friend, Emil Valcre Molle, to the writing desk and the dictionar>*. Did he whip off a few paragraphs in old **Lingua vulgaris" ? I am writing htm to suggest a Latin Seminar as part of the 1910 con­tribution to the academic side of the reunion. Emil will come on from Marshall, Minn., and his com­ing is really good news. 
We observe the account of "Jawn" F. Duffy's death since, Jthc last issue and now comes word that George Rempc has lost his son Bill who gave in to a heart attack at Hot Springs, Ark. The 1910 priests at the altar and all men of the class will pray for these and others like the great George Attlcy, the magnificent Sam Dolan, Indianapolis Jim Decry, Father Denis 0*Shea and others who have moved into eternal life with the other giants of other years. May God grant them peace and happiness and with no thought of flippanc>' we are expressing the hope that general permission is avail­able "all over God's Heaven.** 
Your Class Secretary: Rev. Micluel L. Monaitr* St. Catbcrinc's Ckurdi, 3443 E. 3rd St., Ckveland 
4, Oluo. 
Joha B. Kanaley, *10, gave a talk a: the annual St. Patrick's Day banquet of the Ancient Order of Hibernians in South Bend. Kanaley is co-chamnan of the Notre Dame Foundation of Greater New York. 
1911 
$518.00 conlributed by 16 class members 
Fred L. Steers, 11, suggests that the 40th an­niversary reunion of the class of 1910 next month would be a good opportunity for a gathering of *11 alumni as a prelude to next ycar*s class of *11 reunion. "In those years,'* sa^ Fred, "the numbers were not great and we had a fairly close acquaintance with men of all classes, particularly those immecliately preceding and following.'* 
Steers also reports that Ocraeas L. UlalowsLi has retired from law practice and now is a farmer at Bass Lake, Knox, Ind. Steers himself has his own law office at 105 So. LaSalle St., in Chicago. 
1912 
1913 
$3)0.00 contributed by 12 dan members 
1914 
$531.00 contributed by 20 class meicbcra 
George M. Lucas, surgeon at the Jackson\'iUc State Hospital in Jacksonville, 111., died .^ril 1 after a short illness. Dr. Lucas had been a Chlf^i­go physician for 30 years before joining the Jack­sonville staff. He received his bachelor of science degree from Notre Dame in 1914 and his doctorate from Northwestern in 1920. Dr. Lucas had been in charge of the state hospital at Jacksonville. He was buried in Riverside Cemetery in .Attica, Ind. He is survived by his wife and a brother. Dr. Rtib­ert F. Lucas of South Bend. 
\^Uiam J. Redden, *14, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., architect, writes that he has enjoyed recent visits from several alumni \-acationing in Florida. Some of his visitors have been Edntrard J. Weeks, '12, Detroit; Ernest J. Baader, '13, Philadelphia; Jo­seph J. Fhran, '17, Chicago; and E. Faber B^gckt, Columbus, father of Brendan Btggett, *46, and Frank Biggert, '50. 
1915—35-ireor Reunion 
$857.50 contributed by 16 clau members 
From JIM SANFORD: The Central Steering Committee for our 35tli Anniversary Reunion, June 9, 10 and 11, has held 
Ohio, died Sept. 2, 1949. Howard suffered patiently many years. May his soul rest in peace. 

Leahy Turns Business Man in Burbank 
li^ts-on view of the new Toluca Pharmacy, recently opened at 4107 W. Alameda Ave., Toluca Lake, Burbank, Calif. Partners in the venture arc two members of the class of '30, Lou Berardi, president of the L. A. alumni, and Football Coach Frank Leahy. 
several meetings during the past sixty days and we have worked out a tentative plan whicli will be modified, if desired, when we meet on the campus. 
How*ard Hall has been assigned to us and a full program, together w^ith any special bulletins, mes­sages from individual classmates, etc, will be post­ed at the hall. 
We have requested the Alumni Office to rescr\-e a suitable dining room for us to use Friday evening for a dinner and Saturday noon for a luncheon. Watch the Howard bulletin board for details on this. 
We are planning on attending Mass Saturday and Sunday mornings at Howard Chapel and hope to have Father Patrick Dolan, C.S.C, say it Satur­day for deceased members and Father Kemdt Healy, C.S.C., Sunday for living members. 
Invitations to be present at our Friday evening dinner and Saturday luncheon have been issued to Fathen Matthew Walsh, Matthew Schumacher, ^VH­liam Bolger, Cbarles Doremus, Thomas Irving, Tbocnas A. Stcincr, Peter E. Hebert and other former instructors and friends among the clergy. 
Heading the professorial list Is Dr. Jose A. Capro. Jim Armstrong, Bill Doc^ey and John Bums will also join us. 
The consensus of the committee Is that the re­mainder of the planning be postponed until the class omvenes Friday evening and Saturday morn­ing. We should like to have members meet at every meal and will try to have some comer set aside in the cafeteria for that purpose. The various attrac­tions arranged by the Alumni Office and open to all attending the various reunions appear in the general news section. 
While there are many from whom we have not heard, we hope to see them present.Joe Byrne received acknowledgement recently from the fol­lowing who will be unable to attend: Joesph Guns­ter, James Lawler, Harry Morley, Dr. George Schuster and Hon. Joseph Scott. 
^Ve have not heard from Larry Lajore, Dime Bank Bldg., Detroit, Mich., or Ray Kelly, 473 Federal Building, Detroit, but we are counting on seeing them, for they have always been on deck for past reunions. 
Joe Healcy, 616 Blackwood St., Xo. Sacramento, Calif., another retread of World War 11, will be with us if not on active duty. Father Staaislatis Kuszynski, C.S.C., 1118 Noble St., Chicago, lU., has been ill but wrote Joe Byrne that he will be with us if strong enough. 
Louis P. Malone writes that he will be on hand. Walter Rowland, Leo Welch and your secretary iiave sons in this year's graduating class so we will get together a week earlier than other members. Joe Byrne will preside as chairman at our Satur­day noon luncheon. To him, to all committee mem­bers and to classmates who have given us so much encouragement by their friendly letters, we send our heartiest thanks. 
Notre Dame and your old friends stand ready to greet you. 
So long—see you Friday, June 9. 
Howard J. Rohan> 2990 Erie .-Xvc., Cincinnati, 
Year Class SccrcUry: Jim Sanford, 509 Cherry St., Winnetka, 111. 
1916 
$507.50 ccntributcd by 10 class members 
According to a report from Grover Miller, a tentative program has already been arranged for the Class of *16's 35-year reunion in June, 1951. A committee is being formed, and at least 30 mem­bers of the class have already promised to be on hand. 
1917 
$550.00 contributed by 13 cla<s members 
1918 
$293.50 contributed by 15 class members 
From GEORGE HARBERT: 
Congratulations are due to John E. Martin who was Just elected to the Supreme Court of Wisconsin to fill an unexpired term of one year. John will have to run again next year for the full term, but elections have no terrors for him, since he was elected attomi,*>- general for Wisconsin five suc­cessi\-e times. 
Our class poet. Father Matthew A. Coylc, C.S.C.. is assistant chaplain at St. Mary's. I wonder if he gets to edit the poems of his charges, or has writing poetry in Spring gone out of style? 
Leo P. Gauss has gone in for city planning in a big way. He is a member of Indianapolis Plan Commission, Marlon County Plan Commission and Indianapolis Zoning Board. Leo lives at 5740 East 10th St., Indianapolis, Ind. 
Sometimes we have to go a long way to get netvs. No answer from Father Monlghan (Litt.B.} who is pastor at Gregoiy*, S. D., but Max Kazus (Ll.B.) itTitcs that he had a short visit with him in Buffalo recently and that he Is still full of pep and ideas. 
We hear from Prof. Knowlcs B. Smith (Ph.D.) (or should I say Doctor) that he Is engaged in spe­cial research for the Science Afuseum at N.D. 

William Brccn McDonald (student 1914 to 1917) jumped the gun and went to Rome last year. Tells us it vras a wonderful trip. Bill b taking It easy and enjoying his grandchildren. He lives at 230 Uplands Drive, Hillsborough, San Mateo, Calif. 
Father "Ray" Murray, C.S.C, is publishing an­other book. Sociology for a Democratic Society. The publisher js AppJeton-Centry Crofts, Inc. of New York. Father Ray Is at Notre Dame. Ltxjk him up at graduation time. 

Thanks to a real response, we have much more ttcf^'5 which we will pass along from time to time. Keep it up, reporters, you're doing fine. 
Your Class Secretary: George E. Harbert, Dekalb Coaaty Abstract Co., Sycamore, 111. 
The Very Rev. Urban de Hasque, who received a doctorate of laws from Notre Dame in 1918, was honored at a special dinner last month by the Most Rev. Eugene J. McGuinness, bishop of Okla­homa City, on the ixxasion of his golden jubilee in the priesthood, rather de Hasque, a nationally known scholar, was bom at Antwerp and educated at Rome and Louvaln. He was ordained at Lou-vain in 1900, along with three other priests now living in Oklahoma who were also the bishop's guests. 
Joha E. Martin was elected justice of the Wis­consin State Supreme Court in the April 4 elections. Martin, an incnimbent by appointment, was required by Wisconsin law to seek election in order to hold his seat for the remaining year of its ten-year tenure. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1919 
$23730 contributed by 11 class members 

Chuck Egan was recently named sports editor of the Washington Star, according to a report from 
E. J. O'Brien, Jr., Washington Club secretary. 
7920—30-ireor Reunion 
$882.00 contributed by 16 class members 

From LEO WARD: Your class 5ccretar>' and the chairman of the 1920 Class reunion, Edward J. Mechan, of the South Bend Tribune, had a meeting in Los Angeles regarding plans for the 1920 class reunion. Upon his return to South Bend a meeting was called at which all the committee, including the Rev. Fran­cis P. Goodall, C.S.C., Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., M. Edward Doran, Vincent F. Fagan, Har­ry A. Richwine and Edward J. Meehan, was pres­ent. .Alumni Secretar>- Jim Armstrong was also pres­ent, and with his experience and cooperation the program of the Class of 1920 reunion was worked out. 
From accounts elsewhere in the ALUMNUS, both the March-April edition and the current edition, you will note the general plans for all class re­unions to be held June 9th, 10th and 11th. In addition, the 1920 members will hold a class din­ner at the Hoffmann Hotel, South Bend, Friday, June 9th, at 7 p. ra. Notice has been sent to all class members. Headquarters of the class will be in Howard Hall. 
With the notice was included a list of those mem­bers whose mail has been returned. It is recom­mended that each member of the class write to those with whom he was closely associated while in school, or since, and exhort them to send in their reser\'ations. Heretofore some twenty-five have signi­fied their intention to be present barring unexpected eventualities. 
Incidentally, just received a note from Tom Bca­com who advises that Paul ScoRcld is Dr. Paul Scofield and his address is 109 Powell Road, Oak Ridge, Tenn. His business address Carbide and Carbon Chemical Division, Plant Y 12, Oak Ridge, Tenn. Paul is a grandfather and proud of the dis­tinction. 
John Balfe writes that he has located Jim Bailey and Gcoi ^ Sullivan and that they expect to re­port Friday morning, June 9th. 
Your Class Secretary: Leo B. Ward, 458 Spring St., Los Angeles 3, Calif. 
1921 
$80630 contributed by 21 class members 

The ALUMNUS has just learned of the death in February of A. Gordon Taylor. Mr. Taylor, long prominent in political, county fair, and fraternal activities in EaPorte, Ind., had been in failing health since shortly after the 1949 LaPortc County Fair. 
At the time of his death Mr. Taylor was vice-president of the Indiana association of state, county, and district fairs. He had also been president o! the Northern Indiana Fair Association, state president of the Elks organization. Democratic party county chairman, and grand knight of the Laporte council of the Knights of Columbus. i 
Mr. Taylor leaves his mother, Mrs. Mar>- N. Taylor, who informed us of his death. 
1922 
$1,206.43 contributed by 35 class members 

From KID ASHE: Judge Malcolm Hatfield of St. Joseph, Mich., who presides o^-er Probate Court in Berrien Coun­
May-June, 1950 
ty, Mich., and, whose realm reaches within five 
miles of ND campus, wTites to tell us that he is 
part of the class of *22 despite the fact he recei%-ed 
degrees in later classes. His Honor was in our 
group in starting, but had to postpone his educa­
tion due to sickness and death in the family. We 
surely do consider Mai part and parcel of 1922. 
Your secretary believes that a ruling was made 
some months ago wherein any graduate or former 
student of ND may afhliatc with any partictdar 
class of iiis choice, simply by making known his 
seclction to the general secretary, Jim Armstroi^. 
Others of our acquaintance have wished to affiliate 
witli 1922 for the reason they feel they belong with 
us, and that is the way we feel about it, too. 
Feb. 6 was the fifteenth anniversary of the death of Leo Mahoney of South Bend. 
Jack Huether of General Electric, Schenectady, wlio is manager of GE plants in the Central Divi­sion, has a son, Dick, who hopes to enter ND as a prc-med student in September, 1951. 
Congratulations to Dr. and Mrs. Henry S. Atkin­son of Green Bay, Wis., who celebrated theTr twenty-fifth wedding anniversary May 9, and our best wishes to Hank and Evelyn for the future. 
We are highly gratified that Dr. Eddie Anderson who recently returned to Holy Cross as head coach of football after several years at Iowa University, has been selected to coach the College All Stars for their game against the Philadelphia Eagles at Soldier Field, Chicago, Aug. U. Some good numbers who were graduated from ND football ranks should assist Eddie in making a creditable showing. 
Congratulations to our class neighbor, Dick Nash, '23, for being honored by election to the Alumni Board. 
\Vc have received a letter from Vince Hanrahan postmarked Balboa, Canal Zone, present home and headquarters of Vince. It is dated April 10," and reads: 
"The sad news of Bill Csstcllmi's death cainc in your card at the same time the ALUMNUS ar­rived which, of course, did not carry that news. At the 25th reunion Bill was on crutches. I suppose you have seen him since that time. 
"Our family are looking forward to getting to the States for the summer, but we will not be sure until we are on the boat. We are considering send­ing Vincent to a boarding high school in the States next year. 
''I do not get out of Central America these days, but have hopes that Dan Young may have a stop over in Balboa on his trip to the States from Chile. Jerry Cuddihy is ivith Anaconda, and stop­ped on his last trip to Chile. 
"Bill Pettengill, N.D. about 1933, who is coach­ing at Balboa High School is enrolling at N.D. for summer and fall sessions. Leo Kyyzca is also planning to return to get a degree. 
"The Balboa Club had a beach party a few weeks ago. They arc planning one for this week, but am under way in the morning for a three weeks tour, and iv-ill miss our wedding anniversary, my birthday, my son*s birthday in addition to Uni­versal N.D. night. 
"Hope everything goes well with you. If you come east during the summer be sure to look us up in Buffalo or Bedford, Ind.** 
Dan Young was not able to make contact with Vince in Balboa. Dan writes: 
"On my trip 1 got into Balboa too late to get hold of Vince Haniahan, but in Santiago I went to St. George's College and talked with some of the priests there—Father J. Haley, C.S.C, '36; Fadter Tbeodon Huard, C.S.C., '38; Father Alfred Stmi, C.S.C., '32, and Father Francis Provensulo, C.S.C, '42. I tried to contact Enrique Rossdot of '20 at the Chile Telephone Co., and learned that he had died. I did, however, get hold of Hector De-Castro, '21, in Lima, Peru. Hector is ruiming a sheep farm amony other things. 
"The priests at St. George's College are putting up a fine new school building, and have twice as many students as they can care for. The College of St. George is rated tops in Santiago. There are eleven priests there from Notre Dame. 
"The next time 1 go down'to Chile, I hope to go through Columbia, and try some of Busta­mente's fruit salad, for he tells me he grtnvs pine­apples and bananas." 
In our column last issue, we paid our respects to our beloved frieadl aad flwite , 1 9 >»_—^— 
of Ciacinuti, who dml Feb. 23. la tmUmg at the 
time, we were lackiag detwb of Bill's death. We 
have since received InfonaatSoa that Bill.was strik­
en in a^ Cohunbus, Ohio, restanraat while laadb­
ing mBi a Mr. Sam Wilsaa. foraier Ciadaaali 
news^iper maa. He m s rmbcd lo a Coioariiss 
hospital but died in a short tiae of a n^tikre of 
a large blood vessel near the heart. 
Directly across the street from the lestancaat 
where Bill was dining are located offices of his soa­
in-law, John W. Keefe, executive lecrelary of Gor­
emor Lausche, who quickly contacted by telephoae 
Mrs. Ruth Castcllini and brother Albert who has­
tened to Columbus. 
Many fine tr3iutes to Bill have been noted. The 
Greealiaer, a publication of Dinerman & Co., ad^ 
vertbing agency which Bill served in the capadty 
of vice-president had this to say; 
"Bill Castcllini was more than an advertising 
agency representative to our conpany. He was an 
advisor and counselor. He foo^t hard in our be­
half on more occasions than most of ns realize. 
"Bill Castcllini, in the yean he worked with and for Green Line as an advertising and pnblic rela­tions expert, made a real coittribntion to the wel­fare of the company. 
"He was a devout man. He believed that the spiritual governed the business of each day, and he faithfully practiced his belief. 
**We are the better for having had the oppor­tunity of knowing and working with BQI Castcl­lini." 
Bill,^ , had served as a vice-president of the Castcllini Co. large operators of a wholesale fniit and produce business. A resohitioa hoaoriag' Bill was passed by the Cindanati divbioB of the Pro­duce Dealeis Association. In part it reads as fol­lows: 
"It is hard to realize that no more will we see Bill Castellini with his cheery greeting, his stacere interest in each one of us as individnab, his gea­erous response in all situataMis and his •mf.n^j sense of helpfulness to his fellow man. 
"Life, to BDI Castcllini was a crusade—a cru­sade to make happier the lives of those dx>ut him— a crusade based on the creed: "Do imto others as you would have them do unto nm,' aad a crusade against the mean and petty thoughts and actions too often encountered today. . •. ." 
From far-off Pakistan comes news from Father 
Joe Rick, C.S.C. Father Joe writes as follows: 
I am jmt getting a chance to answer mr Christ­
mas mail. We had a three day conference of the 
people with the bishop present and some outside 
dergy on Catholic Action and the Apostkship of 
Prayer, aad for weeks before the date, Jan. 27th, 
I was busy from mora to night. We had dxmt TOO 
.i?'" ^ *"""• I "M"! to «rite the papers, etc. 
I took the bish<v west in our jeep oa Jan. 
JUth for another affair of the same kmd fifty miles 
away. The priest there tras a wreck also On the 
way home Feb. 6th, I got four miles from the 
mission, and pushed and pnUed the jeep the rest 
of the way. antch gave out completely. 
"Ever since I have been «rritiag every spare mo­
ment. Fifjr letters have gone out oa this machme 
and the file looks that big yet. But I am quite 
Wf'the W I at' ST" ' »-«-« "-r 2a>-I "Brother ESiias has arrived, and that is the only news. He is running the school. 
"I foUow your letters in the ALUMNUS, aad 
also see If aay of my friends get me.tio.ed. I sure 
wish that I couW cany on a corre^NMdeace with 
them but the job of rasing cash for this pbee is 
a tough omc." 
Father Joe would like to hear from hi. old pals 
at tnis address: Father Joseph Rick, C.S.C. Ranikoag. 
P.O. Hu-ShSigaaj. £. FIdntan. 

Vo« Oaa Secretary: Gcnld Aihe. 39 ri^hHu St., Rochester 7, N. Y. * 
Deaa Oarcacc Maaioa of the Cdlege of Law was awarded the Chicago Club's third aaanal No­tre Dame faculty award at the deb's ohservaace of Univeisal Notn Dame ai^t. The a«»aid WM m­augurated in I9W to hoaur faculty nmaheis for outstawli.g caa:ributao.s to leamiag. Deaa Ttf*»Sn^_ an anthority oa aatural law, helped estaMiih the Natural Law iKtitnte at die Uaiirersity in tM7 and has been instruaiental i. its swryts si.cc the^ ­
25 

Just returned trom a flying pilgrJmaiie to Rome. 
D. M. Cougfalin reports meeting a '54 graduate from Rhode Island in the Eternal City. He suggests that alumni in Rome would do well to contact the alumnus for assistance while there. He wasn't sure about the name, but remembers that he is man­ager of the CVO building in Rome. .\s far a<i we can determine it's Vince McAloon. 
JcrT>' Kane, Western Washington Club secretary, informs us that Ned Codtiranc has recovered from his long illness and was on hand at the club's ob­ser\ancc of Universal Notre Dame Xight. 
1923 
$1,670.00 conlribuled by 41 class members 
According to a Chicago Tribunr report. Michael 

F. Sejfrit was elected to the Democratic stale cen­tral committee in Illinois in last month's primaries. 
South Bend's obscr\'ancc of Bro'.hcrhood Week, sponsored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews, had the help of a civic committee which included Father Joseph McAllister, C.S.C.. pastor of St. Patrick's Church. In a statement to the South Bend Tribune Father McAllister said that **thc spiritual strength of our nation is founded on the concept of the dignity and worth of each hu­man being in the sight of God without distinction as to race or religion." 
A tremendous flood of acclaim from the nation's businessSj religious, political, and sports leaders came to Ardi Ward on his 25th anniversary as sports editor of the Chicago Tribune April 16. More than IGOO friends and well-wishers honored Ward at an anniversary* banquet at the Stevens Hotel in Chicago, and hundreds more sent in congratulatory' messages from all over the countr>-. Notre Dame's part in the celebration came w*ith the awarding of the Chicago Alumni Club's Notre Dame man-of­the-year plaque to W*ard. Father John J. Ca\-a­naugfa, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, repre­sented the University at the banquet and presented AVard with an N.D. monogram. 
.\mong tlic praise Iieapcd on Ward was a state­ment from Samuel Cardinal Stritch, archbishop of Chicago. "It gives me much satisfaction," the Cardinal said, " to join with your many friends in expressing our appreciation of your worth and work. You have promoted sports as good, healthy recreation, and sought to keep them free from the things which taint and debase them. Never in your work have you overlooked keeping the physical in education and play in life in safe balance with other necessary factors. Your understanding be­nevolence toward the poor and the underprivileged makes you an outstanding leader in our charities. . . . With your many friends I thank you and beg God to shower his blessings on you." 
1924 
$1,367.50 contributed by 40 class members 
Raymond A. Ha>'cr, South Bend area adminis­trator for social security, was named Catholic co-chairman of the South Bend-Mishawaka Round Table of the National Conference of Christians and Jews at a meeting of the board of directors last month. 
7925—2S-Year Reunion 
$3,684.50 contributed by 116 class members 
From JOHN P. HURLEY: 
The notes this time will be a quickie, and the information is covered by last-minute letters that have come in from the members of the Class of '25. In addition to these letters, I have been in touch with Don KCtlcr, AI Sommers, Everard Kohl, Jack Scalkm, Paul RDin%vd>er, John Traynor, and Hank Wuncr. The long-dbtance wires have really been busy and you are assurred of seeing the biggest reunion the University has c*cr had for a 25-Ycar tum-ont. 

The Victory March rang through the Warwick Hotel when the Philadelphia Club celebrated UND Night. Jommg in at the speakers table are (L to r.) Father James W. Gibbons, rector of St-Joscph*s-in-the-HilIs; Hon. Charlie Barber, treasurer of Pennsylvanb; A. F. (Bud) Dudley, club president; Con McColc, toastmastcr; Father Charles Mahoney, C.S.C., club chaplain; Don Miller of Four Horsemen fame; Chet Grant, the "Under the Hat" man; Hon. Gerald Glcason, U, S. attorney; John H. Ndson, Jr., son of the founder of UND Night; and Clifford E. Prodehl, chairman for the observance. 
These letters speak for themselves: 
From Ed Ashe: "This is something I have been trying to do for sometime. Several times I have started but never completed the task so here goes. . . . Although I didn't have the good sense to stay at Notre Dame and be graduated, I ha\-c ahvays considered myself a member of the 1925 Class; at least I am a card-carr>'ing member. . , . 
*'.-\s the old saying goes much water etc., since we first met at Notre Dame in the fall of 1920, I left after my sophomore year and found my ^vay to California in 1926 to see the first U.S.C. game. Fell in love with a young lady and the country, and returned in 1927 and settled down, .\ftcr 13 years in the oil business and five in the aircraft as purchasing agent, I decided to try the other side of the desk. Last October I started out on my own as a manufacturer's agent so now I*m putting up with some of the guff I have been handing out all of tlie years; and instead of eat­ing free lunclies on someone else I am putting them out, but I love it. 
"Loretta and I have been married 22 years and have two cliildrcn. I really feel like a piker after reading about families of sLx and seven but like everj-thing else \\c blame it on the climate. Kath-r>'n, our daughter, is a junior at Mount St. Maiy*s College here in Los Angeles, majoring in sodal welfare. Eddie is a junior at University High School and is 6 feet 1 inch tall, which is con­siderably taller than the Ashe's were in my genera­tion—must be the California weather. 
"Following is list of' 1925 Class members living in and around Los Angeles: Bion V. Vogcl—at­torney-at-Iaw. Involved In a court case that has been going on for months and cannot attend re­union. He's attempting to break the will of Wm. 
S. Hart (Two Gun) in favor of the son. William 
R. Molony, M.D. (Ben Turpin) expects to be on hand for reunion. J. Hayes Fuller— insurance bus­iness in San Diego; home address—General Delivery, Del Mar, Calif. Can't make turn-out. Jim Wargin —M.D., haven't talked to him lately so don't know his plans. Larry Friel—can't say what his plans are. Father John Lynch—saiv him at Uni­versal Night dinner and he no doubt will be there. Art Ryan, an old Carroll Hall boy, was at dinner but he can't make reunion. Bill Clemens I tmder­stand is living in Santa Monica. 
"I still run across some of the boys, and I use that word with reser\"ation now, w'hose names will be familiar to you as Gene Kennedy, his brothers Larry and Cliaiics, Harry Denny, Jim Phelan. Saw Ed Bro%m from up 'Washington ^vay a while back, and Les Ryan, an old side kick of mine, lives in Oakland. If everything goes well, I will sec you all in June." 
Ed Ashe, 134 N. .^nita .4ve., Los .Angeles, Calif. 
* * • 
From Bill Bell: "I intended writing you long be­fore this but mere intentions never seem to produce. Reading of the death of my old friend Ed .\hlering reminded me that I had not sent in my buck for the Mass fund—it is enclosed. I have already sent my contribution to the Dr. John Weibel Memorial Fund to Jim Armstrong. 

"As you will remember, I am still with the Taylor Instrument Companies and act in the capa­city of a divisional sales manager. I have three children, Billy 14'/2, Maureen GJA, and Danny S/^. Right now I am planning on being present at No­tre Dame on June 9, although I have to attend a confectionery- exposition in New York City the first part of the same week. Perhaps Frank Collins, \vho would have been a member of our class but dropped out on account of sickness after a year and a half, will be with mc, and maybe also Bill &ferriman. 
"I am going to write Eddie Welch, formerly of Fort Wayne but who is now living in California, to see if he can possibly make it. I hope mv old friend Harold (Senator) Watson who I bch"evc now resides in Milwaukee will be on hand. I am cer­tainly looking for^vard to having a grand time at our class reunion." 
WHliam R. Bell, c/o Taylor Instrument Com­paniei, 95 .\mes St., Rochester 1, N. Y. 
* • » 

From Ed Polbaus: "I'm ashamed for the delav in forwarding the dollar for the Mass fund. If there is any chore I can do to assist you in the reunion preparations, let mc know. It will be a grand affair for all of ns." 
Ed Folhans, 9238 HartweU, Detroit 28, Mich. 
* * # 

From Bob Klug: "Enclosed is my check for Masses to be said for the deceased members of the Class of I925_. I hope to have the opportunity to 
attend the reunion festivities on the dates mcntion-
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

cd, and look forward with anticipation to this time." ^_ ^ Robert J. Klagy American Varnish Co. (Pres.), 1140 N. Branch St., Chicago 22, III. 
From George Sheehe: "I plan to Be at N-D. for the reunion—June 9, 10, II. Chuck Casey tells me tlierc is to be one. Attacliing contribution for Mass." 
George Q. Sheehe, 2222 32nd St., Des Momes, loM^—PuWic Relations Counsel. 
* » • 

From John Droegc: "Enclosed find my dollar for Masses. Will sec you in June." John R. DrocgCy South Ironwood Drive, South Bend, Ind. 
« * * 

From Fred Uhl: "Enclosed find my contribution w the fund for Masses for tlic deceased members of the Class of '25. TU be down next month for the Class Reunion if I have to roller skate or thumb my way, Hope to sec Hillenbrand, O'Don­nell. Stanhope, Momscn, and others from Pat Ma-nion*s American History- Class—remember?" 
Fred Uhl, 414 S. York, Dearborn, Mich. 
» # » 

From Joe Evans: "This is a belated acknowledge­ment of the letter from Don Miller and yours of. Feb. 24, concerning the John Weibel Memorial Fund. I do not know that you will recall me from Badin Hall days, but you may recall that I trans­ferred to Har\-ard at :hc end of the sophomore year. Since I was in science, I of course knew John Weibel and thought ver>- highly of him. I therefore want to make at least a small contribution toward the room that is being furnished in his memory*. I wish my clu'ck might be more. 
"I also wish that I might be able to go on to the reunion but I am afraid that this will be im­possible. My contacts with Notre Dame have been for me disappointingly few. It was only last spring as a matter of fact that I had been back in many, many years. I was delighted to sec the progress that the physical plant has made, and even more pleased to learn from time to time of tlic real academic advances that are being accomplished. I hope you all have a grand time at the reunion. With everv- best wish." 
Joseph P. E\'ans, M.D., University of Cincinnatt, Department of Surgery, Cincinnati General Hos­pital, Cincinnati 29, Ohio. 
This letter from Joe was answered by your scc­rctar\- and we have invited him back for our re­union even though he didnH finish with the Class. Paul Romwebcr, I hope, ^v\\l contact Iiim advising how the crowd from Cincinnati is coming in on June 8tb. Many thanks, Joe, for your fine contri­bution. 
From Chuck Casey: "Enclosed is my $1.00 for 
Masses and $25.00 for the Memorial Fund. I seem 
to have mislaid instructions as to whom this clicck 
was to be made payable, so if you will fill it out 
correctly I will appreciate it. 
"I plan to attend the '25 Class Reunion, al­
though I should be attending the graduation of my 
oldest son at the University of Iowa. However, 
my wife has promised to take care of that part of 
the family duty. 
"Geoi^ Sheehe, '25, Des Moines, Iowa, called 
on me Saturday and we will he arriving together 
on Friday, June 8." 
Charles J. Cas=y, Chas. J. Casey, Inc., Advertis­
ing, I9J4 First St., X.E., Afason City, Iowa. 
• • » 

Your Class Secretary: John P. Hurley, The Toledo Parlor Furniture Company, Toledo, Ohio. 
1926 
$1,685.00 contributed by 49 class members 

From JOHN RYAN: TO THE CLASS OF '25: Upon the occasion of your stiver anniversary, the heartfelt congratula­tions of the Class of *26 arc extended. May you have a good reunion, may your crowd be large, and may you all be as yoiing^ as you fee) you are. The usual 40 cards went out to the "lucky" mem­bers but the results this time were not quite so good. Fortunately, some of the fellows who had 
May-June, 1950 
previously set aside the cards, sent in letters so we will not have a fall-do\vn of too great proportions. Perhaps the whole trouble is the secretary's fault for not getting the cards out sooner but as you will notice from the new address, I moved recently and consequently got a little tied up. 
You fellows who did not get a chance to answer by the deadline date, take an example from those who previously missed sending in letters and send them in any time you can. They will be used in the next issue after receipt. 
Bob Andrews from Elkton, Md., where he is president of the Elkton Co., says that he and EI­dreda Wiedeman. St. Mary's, will celebrate their 23rd anniversary- at Thanksgiving time. Their daugh­ter, Jtilit-* May, lives in Philadelphia and works in the Psychiatric Clinic at Temple University Hos­pital. Bob says he is her major case. (Your secre­tary know how he feels, for his daughter is now taking her psychiatric nursing training.) 
Bob's company owns and operates industrial real estate—has about 14 plants. They also operate a grey iron foundry* and do heavy construction work. Bob reports seeing Ray Downs, Vic Yawman, Chuck Slooney and Art Suder. He expects to see Clem Crowe now that Clem is in Baltimore. He also expects to see his classmates at the 25lh re­union. 
Dick Collins writes from Glen Falls, N. Y., on the stationery* of the Collins Boat Livery* of Blue Mountain Lake—pretty soft. He works for Sandy Hill Iron & Brass Works at Hudson Falls, N. Y., hut has an arrangement \»hcreby he takes care of his boat livery* during the summer period. Dick is married, has two daughters. He would like to sec anybody who feels like a vacation at Blue Moun­tain Lake. 
Alumnus Named Dean Of Sfudenfs at M.S.C. 
Appointment of THOMAS H. KING, '24, as dean of students at Michigan State College was recently approved by the Michigan Board of Agriculture. 
Mr. King had been director of alumni relations at Michigan State since April 3, 1948, and is one of the few Notre Dame alumni to find himself in such a position. He went to Michigan State ori­ginally in 1933 as an assistant football coach and remained there, in one capa­city or another, since. 
He is a native of Boone County, Ind., and served as a 1st Lieut, of artillery in World War I. He was coach and athletic director at University of Lousville from 1925 to 1932. 
Aady Coafia beUe%*es that his job with John P. Collins Fuel Co. will be more or less permanent after 24 years with them. Andy ts their vice-presi­dent. He commutes from Efanhurst to Chicago-Moat certainly Andy is a good candidate for the 25th reunion next year. 
Dr. Bert Omghfia writes fmn St. Louis that he will be happy to help out in getting the gang to­gether next year. He is specializing and get him to tell you about his speciality. Bert married a St. Louis girl and they have two daughters and a son. He keeps up with Notre Dame activities through his chainnanship of the Foumlatioa in St. Louis. He makes a nomination for the office of treasurer which your secartary. declines. 
On the letterhead of the CYO of Detroit Ed Cnm-e writes that the ALUMNUS had asked for information on him, Clem, and their other five brothers who graduated at NJ>. Whatever story Ed has will be more fully told in another column. Ed sees Mai Knans and ^ifai Bicimaa. He also sees Vic Lemmer occasaoaaUy after having bomped into him in church four or five years ^o . 
BO} Oo^aa says that he is an old married man with a daughter, nine, and a son, six. He reports that he has been with Linde Air Products since graduation, in the credit department. Apparently he has a pass to Cubs Park for he says he is an ar­dent fan and lives within walking distance. He reports seeing Lotnc Franke regularly and occasion­ally goes out to Harvey to see Frank Nccs. 
According to the raster Ed Dnggan was with the Board of Education at Newark, N. J. How­ever, the card was returned saying he was not knon-n there. Who can tell the secretary what his correct address is? 
.\ couple of weeks ago, your secretary had a call from George Hartnett, u d over a luiich table George ga\*e his story of the past years. George married Lucille Buechele whom he met at St. Mary's. George, Jr., is now finishing bis fresh­man year at Williams College. George operates his own business at 221 N. LaSallc St. in Chic^o, trading in peanuts and other edible nut meats. He has been successful in thu line, which he entered in 1927. 
From Des Kfoines, Han^d Klei«, vice-president of the Iowa Des Moines National Bank, puts into words something that many of your lcUow% hxve been wondering. He says **Il is a dilema—to be brief and mfidest and to be informative without be­ing boastful." That's up to you fellow*—you can write as much as you want to and do as much bragging as you would like to. 
Harold \vent with the bank in 1926 and worked successively through various jobs to' his present position. He takes quite an interest and gives a lot of time to \-arious community and civic a£fvrs in Des Kfoines but still has time to enjoy life with Mrs. Klein and their two daughters and two sons. He reports seeing Postmaster Wade SnIIivan eadi summer when he vacations at Lake Okoboji. He occasionally sees Bob Dirfzall. He is figuring to be back next year for the reunion. 
Charlie Molaney says that he has seen classmates in various sections of the country and many of them have called on his trompany during the years. When he left school, he started with Walgreen Co., worked all over the U. S., and for the past four years has been director of merchandising. Charlie has been married U years, has three daughters and one son. 
Recently Mrs. Francis Nees ran into your secre­tary's card which her husband had overlooked and she sent in the following dope: they were married in 1933 and have five children ranging from 2 to 15. Frank works for Perfection Gear in Har­vey, III., as production manager. Receiving a letter from one of the wives gives an opportunity that is usually missed for Frank is descrHied as "the most wonderful husband and father in the world.'' Mrs. Nees assures us that the family will see to it that Frank gets to the 23tb reunion. 
Bala Cynu-yd, Pa., is the address at the top of the letter received from Mark Mooney. Mark has been with Carrier Corp. since leading schiml and enclosed a program of a meeting of refrigerator people which he addressed. The program tells more about Mark than he would tell about himself. He has been very active in the refrigeration field throughout the years, and :q>parently people in that industry like to hear what he has to say. He promises to get back next year. 
From Jim Fearson comes word that Warren Tat­
27 
ham is presently living at Moses Lake, U.S.B.R., Moses Lake, Wash. 
A few days ago, your secrctar\' had a call from the Stevens Hotel; calling back it was Bill Strausc of Sandusky. Ohio. Bill is a manufacturers' rep­resentative in a automotive parts and supply line, uorking out of Sandusky titrough Micliigan.. Oliio and Kentucky. He was married in 1926—has four daugliters, two of whom arc married. 
Jim AVhcIan writes from Ridgewood. N. J., that he has been in the motor carrier business since graduation. Has been married for 20 years and now has a son, Michael, a sophomore at Notre Dame; a daughter, Maricllen, finishing high school: another dauhtcr, Julie, a sophomore, and James, Jr., who wants to get to X.D. some day. Jim plays some badminton, collects ctcliings(!) and sees Tommy Farrcll and Jack Adams once in 3 *vhi]c­
\1c Yawman read the last ALUMXUS before your sccretar>' received his and followed Jerrj' Morsche's example by sending in a check for five bucks. Your secretary is now holding two checks for that amount and wishes that someone would come along for the treasurers job-
That about covers the report of those who re­ported. Keep the stories rolling so that our column will continue to be informative. 
REMEMEBER '2&—PREPARE FOR '51. 
Your Class Secretary-: John J. Rran, 2434 Grecn-Icaf Ave, Chicago, II). 
Bill Dooley has an idea that XHc Yawman will be the first *26 man to have a son graduated from Notre Dame. Vic, Jr.. will receive his degree June 4. 
1927 
$1,814.00 conlributed by 68 class members 
From JOE BOLAND; **Jack Patton, now president of the Mitchell, S. 
D. National Bank sat down to his typcwriier not so long ago and pounded out these lines: 
**Joe O'DonncH—Is just recovering from a broken leg. Accident happened sometime in December or early January-. Joe is coming along \yell now, in his Chicago home. 
"Bill Ka\:atiaugfa—whose name came up \*l»ilc I was having dinner one night at tlic Mark Hop­kins in San Francisco. Happened to go by a table and a gentleman there said in a voice loud enough for mc to hear: 'Tlierc is a fellow who looks like Bill Kavanaugh.' Stopped, of course, and shot the breeze, discovered much to my surprise that he was thinking of the same Bill Kavanaugh. He reported back to Bill of the experience and I had a letter from Bill telling mc he is now located in Wash­ington, D. C. 
**BiII Coriwtt—manage to sec him every once in a while; we tr>' to get together on bonds ever>' so often, but Bill is rather tough on the price! He's with Martin, Burns &. Corbett, Field Building, Chi­cago. . **Frank McGec—during my last trip to Chicago, bumped into Frank and his wife at Jim Saines* res­taurant on Rush Street. Frank is selling an cletric blanket or sheet, one or the other—can't remem­ber u-hich at the moment. 
"Dick Hassman—the water-bomb expert of Walsh Hall is operating the First National Bank of Aitkin. Minn., Knew that he was in the business and finally made connections with him at a Federal Rcsenc Bank meeting in Minneapolis two years ago. Plan to sec more of him at bank meetings in the future. 
Willtam Graham—a customer of ours, purchased a cottage near Brainerd, Minn. In getting the in­surance fixed up, I find that Bill is operating the Graliam Insurance Ser\-icc in that city. Joe Dunn, of course, is the Brainerd postmaster. 
**Tom O'Connor—need a letter from him; and, ril write in return. 
"As for m>-sclf, I lost my father two years ago last October. At that time I had been vice-president in charge of outside activities and I suddenly found that I had to become a working president. That was indeed a dtfHcuIt change. Between the b'ank­ing business and other outside activities, there just don't seem to be cnougli hours in the day. 
"Being out here in the wilds of South Dakota, don't sec many of my classmates, or for that mat­
28 
ter many fellows who went to Notre Dame. I have to be brought up-to^atc by O'Donncll when we get together cverj* once in awhile." 
Thanks, Jack Patton, for that newsy letter. For the rest of you, let it be an example! 
Next—George Gordon of 1201 French Ave, Lak^ wood 7, Olilo. George, finding no '27 notes in the Marcli-April issue of the ALUMNUS, sat down and wrote himself a letter! In part, George writes: 
**'Just to bring you up to date you will recall that before our reunion in *47 I advised you that my son. Bill, had been registered and started in the Clicniical Engineering school in tlic fall of '46 . . . and I asked you to poll the class of '27 to sec if anyone could match it. Result: I won—being the only one out of the class of '27 with a son at scliool! Time sure goes, Joe: Bill will get his degree in Chcm. Eng. June 4th. this year . . . and I still have all my hair! (Ed. Note: the lucky siifT!) 
''Xfade the Tulane and U.S.C. games last fall.. S(irr>* you could not get down on the field with your old gang between halves at the U.S.C. con­test . . . but we saw you wave the handkerchief from your broadcast booth, as we were on the other side of the field." 
Most '27 men will remember Ed Meredith. In the South Bend Tribune of May 9, this item ap­peared: "Edward M. Meredith, South Bend attor­ney and amputee, is one of 15 physically-handicrap­ped citizens invited to testify in Washington this week on a bill which is aimed at combining federal agencies for the handicapped, replacing them with a single board. 
"Meredith will testify before a senate sub-com­mittee headed by Paul M. Douglas (D., III). Be­sides attending as an amputee, Meredith will rep­resent South Bend AFL Teamsters' Z-ocal No. 364, wliich is interested in the bill." 
.As a final note, drop a line to Joe Benda, at St. John's University, CoUegcville, Minn. Benda re­cently was given a year's leave of absence by that University as its football coach, to help in his fight against Hodgkins* disease, afllicting him now. Bcnda's job as football coach at St. John's will be filled temporarily by Johnny Blood, of the old Green Bay Packers. '27 men from Carroll Hall days back in '23 will remember him as John McNally! 
That's about it for this time, friends: sorrj' about the omission of '27 from the last issue—but, at the time, I had nothing to write about! So—if you will—emulate brothers Gordon and Patton . . . and drop a line or two with some news from your bailiwick* 
Your Class Secretary-: Joe Boland, Station WSBT, South Bend, Ind. 
SccrMan" Joe Boland found himself with a life­time honorary- membership in the South Bend Ju­nior Association of Commerce last month. Boland, sports director for station AVSBT, was presented with the membership certificate for "his work in fostering Junior baseball and other Jayccc activi­ties," said Charles R, Miller, the association's pres­ident. 
Harold A. Shanafield, now working for a pub­lishing business in Chicago, was elected commander of the Lake Shore chapter No. 925 of the Coast Guard League. Shanafield, long active in veterans afl^airs, lives at 5442 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago 15. 
New manager of the Stillwater, Afinn., division of the Northern States Power Co. is Frank B. Mayer. Mayer was formerly with the industrial sales de­partment of the company's St. Paul division. He first came to work for Northern States in 1923 as a lineman during summer vacation from Notre Dame. 
Mr. and Mrs. Marc Fiehrer arc the parents of daughter Matildc, bom last month. Fiehrer, who now has five girls and two boys, is a partner in the law firm of Baden and Fiehrer in Hamilton Ohio. 
Carl F. Kemps, a B.S.M.E. in '27, died April 5 in South Bend. He >ras buried in the St. Joseph Valley Memorial Park. Mr. Kemps had been a draftsman for the Indiana and Midjigan Power Co. 

John J. Greeley, American occupational govern­ment resident officer in Deggcndorf, Bavaria, was quoted in a recent Stars and Stripes feature story. Greeley, a student of Irish history, told tile paper's correspondent that Irish monks first introduced church bells to Europe as part of their work in establishing churclies and monasteries tliroughout Europe. 
1928 
$1,750.50 contributed by 67 class m«nb:rs 
From LOU BUCKLEY: 
Mrs Milton Wagner wrote from 2290 Hollander, Dearborn, Mich., in response to a note I had sent to Milt for news, that Milton Wagner died very suddenly on August 23, 1948, two months after our 20-ycar reunion, from an attack of coronary throm­bosis. He had not been ill prior to the attack which lasted only about ten minutes, and he was dead before either the doctor or priest arrived. I am sure the many friends of Milt in the class of *28 join with me in extending sympathy to his wife and daughter. I regret that I did not have this report on Milt's death until this late date. Please remember Milt in your prayers, 
Wm. H. Murphy's father died on March 20. Ed Rafter, who is a neighbor of mine on the west side in Chicago, Bill Armin and 1 represented the class of '28 in paying our respects at the mortuary-one evening. 
Leo Walsh, who is practicing law in Grand Rapids called me when he was in Chicago in March attending a meeting of the Family Service Associa­tion. I also had a call from two oher Chicago business visitors, Denny Daly of St. Paul, where he is practicing law, and from Bill Kirwan of Iowa City, Iowa, where he has a furniture store. 

Father Mark Fitzgerald received his Ph.D. de­gree at Chicago University on March 17. Father Mark is a member of the economics faculty- at No­tre Dame. He joins the other dbtinguishcd Ph,D,'s in our class, including Henry Persyn, Andy Boyle, Art Stenius, Bob Fogerty, and John L. Worden. Please let me know what other Pb.D.'s should be added to this list. 
r had a card from Vince Carney and Iris wife from Rome, Italy. I hope other classmates visiting Rome this year will follow Vince's example and send me a card. 
The Chicago Sun-Times carried a fine article on Ed Brcnnan on March 12 under the title "Meet the Man Who Prepares Your Tax Bill," The ar­ticle begins as follows: "Among public officials, one of the busiest but least publicized is Edmund J. Bretman, a handsome bachelor of 43, who is di­rector of the Department of Special Senices of Cook County." Ed has been in charge of this de­partment since 1944. Earlier Ed worked for the Stale Finance Department and the School Board. The schools lent him to the Citizen's Committee on Tax Collection and the Association of Commerce Committee on tax delinquency. 
Speaking of public officials, I saw our old friend of Sophomore Hall days, Frank Hogan, at the N.D, Club of Chicago annual election banquet. Frank is the alderman from the Sixth Ward, He has been a inember ol the Chicago City Council for a number of years. 
Ben J. Kotz'n, who, in addition to being a mem^r of the '28 law firm of Kearney, Korzen and Phclan, is the election commission attomcv in Chicago. I regretted hearing recently of the death of Bert's brother, Harry J. Korzeniewski. 
I noticed an article recently citing an example of good labor-management relations which reflects praise for a '28 man. The members of the Kavdon 
/? J "'''°° "' '""^ International Assoc, of Machinists of Muskegon, Mich., voluntarily organized a "dean­mg bee" and cleared away debris at the site of the Lake Michigan home of Frank J. Donovan, prnident of the Kaydon Engineering Corp., which had been destroyed by fire, so rebuilding could start. The Kaydon Corp. which has just completed an addition to iu original plant, has not lost a day s work because of labor difficulties since it was established by Frank in 1941. Frank recently ser»ed as a member of an arbitration panel wiiich re­solved a long bus strike in Muskegon. 
And now for the letters from classmates: Bernie Garber writes from his new address, Cherry St., Katonah, N. Y., that the literary- standing of the class of '28 is being upheld by Ricbanl Panish, whose three-act play "The Field of Blood," was produced last November in Fairmont, W. Va., by the Marior County Little Theatre, one of the best in the U. S. For an inkling of the type play-Parrish has wTitten, Bernie referred me to the .^cts of the .Apostles, 1:17-20. The" setting is an Austrian 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

mountain village in a war-crimes courtroom, some­
time after the close of World War II. More than 
a thousand persons saw the play and gave it a 
marvelous reception. Bernie reports that Parrish 
hoards his work in a minaturc Fort Knox far in 
the West Virginia mountains, where he and his 
wife. Agnes CHfTord Smith, liics. Bernie promises 
to give us a further report on the play when it 
is on Broadway. He continues as follows: 
**Aftcr the N. Carolina game last fall. Dorothy and f met Laura and Jim Conmcy, had dinner to­gether and a most pleasant evening. If I recall correctly Jim had just taken or was about to take the state CPA exams. We had expected to see Larry Cullmey at the game but he couldn't make it. Larry did show up at my Iiousc last evening and &pent the night. While reminiscing, he mentioned Joe Francis Cannon, Bums Martin and the Miti­guy brothers—also that John Robinson now had a private prep school in West Hartford. Larr>' even meets former girl friends (and husbands and chil­dren) as he covers Xew England for the FDIC, doing trust examinations. Larry is now an examiner, usually working and traveling alone. 
"Ollic SchcU, '29, was in NYC not long ago at­tending tiic consecration of Bishop Griiliih. Had lunch some weeks ago with Bill Cronin who seems to have turned from making money for himself to that of raising some for Notre Dame. Don't shy away upon meeting him—he's looking for ideas. His oldest son is at N.D. now, his youngest will be there in about sixteen years. 
**Steve Shcrrj' and I sometime, in January, had din­ner and saw a show with Dan Verrilli and John Pa-n^lli who drove in from Morristown. Dan conducts tl)c family baking business and is a man about town. Panelli's comments on pro football were interesting. It's football during the fall for him and then ND Law School during the second semester. With his good sense and fine personalit>', there is a good Iaw>-er coming up."" 
Ecb \ttnter write;' *from his new address, 733 
J. E. George Blvd., Omaha, Neb., where he moved from Mason City in March. Bob has three children, a son 19 years old and a freshman at ^fonmouth College,'a daughter at Duchesne High School con­vent of the Sacred Heart, and another son four years old. Bob is rounding out Iiis twentieth year with .Armour and Co. where he is assistant plant superintendent. 
B. P. "Billy" Wood reports from P.O. Box 1289. San'a Fe, New Mex., where he is practicing law, as follows "Ran into Elmer Wynne one night before the war—he was connected with some fed­eral agenc>- as I recall. Art Denchfield came through here a couple of times—the last time was also before WW 2. Then yours truly spent the first I'A years in Coast .ArtiHcrv- Corps—the last 2'A in Air Corps. Just been transferred to JAG rescr\-e. Separated 31 May 1946. Came out a major, which is pretty rank for a guy from the cow countr>-. Been a football and basketball ref ever since '28; was president of New Mexico Coaches & Officials Assn. for 48-49. the only accomplislmient of which I"ni the least bit proud. Have no family except my mother who lives with me. 
'*Have corresponded with Cyp Sporl a few times and nearly saw him at the ND-Tulane game of '45 in New Orleans, .About two years ago Lylc Brucker came through witli wife and two daughters and wc chatted for a half hour or so. Have run across Ray Brancheau a few times during the years and when Charles Riley was coach at NMU I saw him a few times. Attended a ND lunch a couple of years ago with Louis Lujan, Dr. Eddie .Anderson, the Hebenstrcits, Mike McGuinncss and one or two others, during coaching school at NMU. Had several talks with Dr. Eddie during that time. He was one of our instructor coaches, 
'"Years ago Jimmie Cowles and I had a bit of correspondence, mainly business. I wonder how-Steve Wozniak, Judge John J. Wallace, Bill Daily and some of the other '28 Iau->-ers are—^22 years is a bit of a long time." 
John P. Murphy wrote from Little Rock, Ark., where he is a salesman for a food service equipment house, covering ilic state of Arkansas. John is mar­ried and has one daughter 13 years old. I was sorry to licar that John was stricken with a heart at­tack in January a year ago and was ill for 15 months. He returned to work only recently. John reports that he has had some pleasant chats wiLh I%il Lytic, Oscar Rust and George Coury as they passed through his area. John also indicated that he has had some nice contacts with John L. Leit­
May-June, 1950 
zinger his old roommate of Clearfield, Pa., who is the proud papa of eight fine children. John men­tioneti that Ktrwin J. V^IIianis of San Antonio, Texas, moved to Little Rock about two years ago. Kirwin is with General Motors Corp. 
It is with great regret that I report that John 
P. Murphy advised me that his brother Conlcr T. Murphy died some years ago. Conlcy's name should have been on the list of deceased classmates I pre* pared for you at our 20-ycar reunion. You will all want to remember Conlcy in your prayers. 
I had a note from Tom Byrne, 2248 Stillman Rd., Cleveland Heights, Ohio, when I was re-elect­ed recently to the office of president of the Catholic Conference on Industrial Problems. Tom was pleas­ed that two other Notre Dame men were elected vice-presidents of the Confc'rence, Very Rev. Thom­as J. Tobin, *20, vicar general of the archdiocese of Portland, Ore., and John Q. Adams, '26, presi­dent, Manhattan Refrigerating Co., New York. 
A number of *28 men and their guests got to­gether at two tables for the Chicago Universal No­tre Dame Night banquet on April 15. The group included Mr. and Mrs. Jim Allan, Mr. and Mrs. Matt Culltn, Mr. and Mrs. Bill Armin, Mr. and Mrs. Jack P. Rigley, Dave Smith and Wm. H. Murphy. Matt CuUen has two daughters and is practicing law in Chicago. Matt was inquiring about Tom Jones of Boise, Idaho. How about a letter. Buck? Daw Smith is a partner in the architectural firm of McCarthy & Smith in Chicago. Dave men­tioned how much he enjoyed our 20-ycar reunion and that he is looking forward to 1953 when we get together again. 
Jim -Allan, who has a son eleven years of age, is with the Lumberman's Mutual Casualt>- Co. Jim married hFs senior ball date, Katherine Ditt­mar of St. Mary-of-thc-Woods. It was good to see Jack Rigley again. Jack was a student at Notre Dame from 1923-26 from South Bend. He now lives at 1214 W. Jar\is St., Chicago 26. As you know. Bill .Armin has his own accounting office in Chicago and Bill Murphy is with the Diversey Corporation. I also saw Pat Varraveto's brother, who was a stu­dent of mine at Notre Dame. Pat is still in Los Angeles. 
Jim P. Kennedy, who was a student at Notre Dame from 1925 to 1929, and his wife attended a lecture I gave on health insurance in the forum series at the Sheil School of Social Studies in Chi­cago recently. Jim, who married Elizabeth Staun­ton of South Bend, is sales manager of the Tri­umph Mfg. Co., 913 W. Van Buren St., Chicago. The Kennedys have nine children. The last issue of tlic St. Mar>*'s Courier carried a family picture of the Kennedys. 
I find we have 34 classmates whose mail has been returned unclaimed. I will be writing to some of you for help in locating them. John Igoe is tr>-ing to locate Alex Borawski and recently wrote that he would get me some information even if he must go to Sharon, Pa., to develop It. Igoe, who lives in Columbus, Ohio, repor's that Jim Shockn=ssy is so deep in Ohio's Turnpike (as chairman) and Governor Lausche's political advancement that he is harder to sec or call than Pope Pius. Jim's out­standing contribution to this column in the April-May issue was ver>- much appreciated. 
As an experiment, I am listing a few of the class­mates whose mail has been returned unclaimed in the hope that some of you will be good enough to send mc their addresses. Can you help locate the following: Vincent F. Carey, Ed Carringer, George Conner, Ray Dahman, John Gaughan, Bill Gosbcl, Henry Hudson, Jim Hurlbert, Walter H. Layne, Frank Reilly, Bob Strickel and Art Zimmrrman. 
I am pleased to note that Bill Brown is sched­uled to give a lecture on "Labor Management and the Welfare State" on the labor forum series on May 15 at the Sheil School of Social Studies in Chicago. I also understand that Bill has been in­vited to speak to the students at Notre Dame in a lecture series arranged by the Department of Economics. Bill is in the legal department of Allis-Chalmers in Milwaukee, assistant to the vice-presi­dent and general aforney. I recently had the privi­lege of reading and commenting on a draft of a manuscript prepared by Bill entitled "The Proper Role of Government in Economic Life." 
Ed Rafter gave me a clipping from the Miami Herald, March 18, 1950, which carries a picture of George Coury, looking over blueprints of the re­cently completed Syrian-Lebanon American Club's clubhouse. George is president of the club and. 
as would be expected, he has at his side a Florida beauty who is publicity diainnaa. 
Mrs Buckley and I speat a very pleasaat cveauiig with Viace Wafah and his wife Tccently whe« they were in Chicago for a weekend. Viiice, who lives in Monticello, 111., attended the UniveTsal Notre Dame Ni^t meeting at SpringScId where be.saw John CarroD. John has a son at Notre Dame, two daughters in high school and a boy in grade schoi^ John is in the construction business in Springfidd, 111., and promises to be present at our 23-ycar re­union in 1953. Mr. and Mrs. Ffank Doaovaa stop­ped in Chicago on their return from Florida. I was sorry to hear that Frank had been quite ill tMs winter. The Donovans abo have a boy at NJ>. 
A friend of mine from CcJundras, Ohio, telb me that John Foatana is going to Rome, Italy this smo­mer on business. Let us know how you arraagcd that, John. A friend frmn Indianapolis reports that Bob Kiibr** pictures appeared in the Indianapofe pliers as master of ceremonies at the opening <A the American Associatitm baseball season there. How about another one of those fine letters fnmt yon. Bob, to pep up this coliunn? 
Henry Dans wrote from St. Mary's, West Va., where he is with the Quaker Sute Oil Refiniag Corp., Sterling Oil Division, that he noted in the '28 column where I had been in SteubenviUe. It was encour^ing to know that at least one class­mate reads the c»Iumn. I didn't realize I was so near your heme. Hen, or I would have written to you as I would like to sec you agaun and meet your family. Henry said the only Notre Dame man he sees is Flul Boyer of the class of '33. 
You possibly have noticed that the Secretary oC the Class of 1929 has been receiving contributions for Masses for the deceaued 1929 men. He re­ported last month that twenty-six Masses have been celebrated this year by priests from tfaeir class. If you wish to participate in offering Masses for 1928 men, please let me know. I will be pleased to ar­range for the Masses to be said for the t^venty-three deceased members of the Class of 1928 by members of our class. When you send in your Mass offering, please remember to enclose some news for this trolumn. 
Your Class Secretary: Louts F. Buddey, 4700 W. Adams St., Chicago 44, 111. 
Secretary Louis Buckley reports some omissions in the '28 class roster recently prepared. To bring class members up to date, these arc the changes that should be made: the name of Leo R. Mclntyre of Allentown, Pa should be added. Robert P. YimXtr has changed his address to 733 £. George Blvd., Omaha, Neb. 
Judge John T. CuUinan of Bridgeport, Conn., has been appointed to the Connecticut Superior Court. 
Miltcm J. W^^ner, one of Dearborn, Mich., best known citizens, died Aug. 23, 1948, we have just learned. &fr. Wagner had served as president of numerous organizations, including the Holy Name Society, the Ushers Club of Sacred Heart Church, and the Phoenix Club. He was a member of the Notre Dame Club of Detroit and of the Dearborn Chamber of Commerce. At the time of his death he was part owner of the Tydings En­gineering Co. 
Mr. Wagner left his wife, a daughter, four broth­ers, and one sister. 
WiUiam E. Brown, attorney for Allts-Chalmers Mfg. Co., took part in a labor-mans^ment rela­tions forum on the campus. (Sec news section.) 
1929 
$4,821 ^ contributed by 57 class membeis 
Fram DON PLUNKETT: Bin "lUr" Byrae (coach and physical education director in the San Francisco School System since 1930) ivrites an interesting letter about the NJ>. Ixiys in the Shriners East-West Game. The Byrnes have two boys and live at 873 34th Ave., San Francisco. 
*'Here is a report on the - reception of the Notre Dame East-West Shrine Game players and Fll try to give the high lights. The arrangements were handled on short notice by Dick Foite, '25, who is one of our most tireless workers for everything No­tre Dame*represents. The gathering of 175 started 
29 

Anybody Know These Turn-of-the-Century Notre Dame Dandies? 
Someone in the bcfore-1900 bracket %\*ill have to give Herb Jones Father Moriarty, 1910 class secretary, sent the ALUNfNUS the snap­help on this one. He found the picture in the athletic offices and shot reproduced above. He is standing second from left in the group, wonders who the flashy blades are. Picture was taken, to the best and claims not to know the rest of the subjects. (Picture taken prior of anyone's knowledge, sometime in 1898. How Cartier Field got to 1910.) For the June reunion, the picture will be displayed in there in 1898 is a problem even Herb Jones can't solve. 1910 headquarters for returning members to admire or criticize. 
at about 7 o'clock. Dec. 22, at Simpson's with usual elbow bending and chin fcsting. The guests arrived at 7:30 and circulated among the groups and dinner was served at 8:15. MC Bert Dunne, *26. ^vith his Irish wit and repartee, ably kept the ball rolling. The three boys fiom the 1949 team . . . expressed a short message of their own with true Notre Dame humility and simplicity. Leon Hart spoke on the probable sentiments of ''Our Lady of the Golden Dome** on the reason for the victorious season and their trip west. Jim Martin said his part briefly and well on the sincerity of the present team members, their loyalty and his feel­ing. Frank Spaniel gave a short talk and promised that Notre Dame would continue its winning ways, with Frank Leahy crying a little to make things just look bad enough to be good. 
The Old Guard of Northern California were in attendance: Bcmie Abrott, '27, Bill Yore, '29, Frank Audn^^, '18, Brccn McDonald, '18, Bob McDonald,. '30, and Keene Fitzpatrick, '13. Ed "Slip'* Madigan, '20 gave his usual fine oration witli words of introduction for the many non-Norre Darners who support cver>'thing that is Notre Dame* 
"If any of the '29crs, jerry Quellctt, Peter Mor­gan, Lorenzo Brenzcl, Joe Smictanka, Jack Dona­hue, Francis Crou-e, have a word please put it in the class news or general information. I'd just like to hear a word now and then from them. Hugh J. MfiXfonlgal of Miami, Fla., wrote mc a nice letter asking me to attend tlic '29 reunion, but school did not permit as we didn't close till the 23rd of June. I hope 1954 finds me in a better pos­ition for the 25th reunion, so that I may sec the old fellows personally. . . . Sign mc up for the 25th." 
Gerr>' P. O'Connor (Attorney—Slircve, Sennet, Coughlin and O'Connor, in Eric, Pa., was unable to attend our 20th reunion but made a sizable do­nation and helped in AVestem Pennsylvania on the organization of reunion plans.) Gcrr>- writes a very encouraging le:ter and a very news\- one. "I thank you for your inquiry about my good health and I am happy to say that it has been exactly that for the past months. You asked what I have been do­ing during the past years since I left Notre Dame. 
It seems quite a distance back when I start re­viewing. In Marcli of 1945 I married Jane Schu­wcrk and at the present time wc have a little daughter, Joan, four years of age. 
"During the past years, off and on, I have been a Professor of Business Law and Polilical Science at the Cathedral of Preparatory- School for Boys, Gannon College, and Villa Maria College, as well as occupying myself in the general practice of law in the cit>' of Erie. The teaching during the past several years became too burdensome and T had to regretfully give it up hoping to return to it some­time in the future. 
"Since 1941, I have been an owner and director of Presquc Isle Broadcasting Company, which op-crates Station WERC, AM and F^I. At the present time we are in the midst of constructing a new 5000 watt transmitter. 
**TIie only Erie member of the Class of 1929 be­sides myself is J. Thad Heinlein. At the present time he is one of the operators of E. E. Austin and Son Building Construction; as a matter of fact, one of his recent projects was the building of our new transmitter house. He is married to the form­er Helen Barr>- and has three daughters—Nancy, 9 years of age; Joan, 5 years of age; and Kathleen, 6 months of age. 
"Robert Rouecbe called at my Iiomc only last Saturday. You will recall Bob as a former Eric man and graduate of our class. He is now in the sales department of the Mead Sales Co., manu­facturers and sellers of paper and paper pulp. Bob seems ver>' prosperous and in excellent health, having lost only a few hairs during the 20 year inter\"al. 
•'On his way through to\v'n several weeks ago, Elmer T. Weibel also a member of our class gave me a call. He is married to the former Elaine Gal­lagher of Erie. They have two children—Kathleen and John, who was, incidentally, named after El­mer's deceased brother. Dr. John, whom you will probably recall as one of the Seven Mules on the team of the Four Horsemen. Elmer, who is now gen­erally referred to as Ted, is in charge of the Rc­scarcli Laboratory- of the Irvington Paint and Var­nish Co. in Irvington, N. J. He resides at East Orange, N. J. You will recall him probably as working with Father Nieuwland. He obtained the de­gree of doctor of chemistr>- from ND after gradu­ating with us. 
"Before closing and while on the subject of alum­ni, I met Dr. Jimmy Biggins of Sharpesville while taking the 4th Degree in the Knights of Columbus s^Kiut three weeks ago. You may recall Dr. Jim. now practicing at Sharpesville, as a member of the class of I93I." 
John Law (football and baseball coach and teacher of Sociology at Mount St. Mary's College, Emmitsfaurg, Md.) sent a fine letter about his family, coaching, and X.D. men that he has seen. 
**I have alwa>-s been remiss in keeping in touch with the school and I feel that your card has given mc the needed stimulus for changing my ways in this matter. In fact I can already show- progress for I have just written to Bus Redgaie after read­ing the announcement in your column that lie was not in the best of shape. 
"Since September of 1948 I have been at Mt. Saint Mary's College coaching foo:baIl and ba.'-e­ball and teaching sociolog\-. Tlie latter phase of my acti\-ity results from my 13 years experience with the correctional department of New York State and some post gradua'e work at Teachers College, 
N. Y. I am tr>'ing to revise my course along tlic line of sociology- now taught at N.D. 
"My family consists of my daughter. 16, and the Mrs. My only son, who would have been a fresh­man at N.D. tliis present vear. died of polio in 1948. 
"Jack Elder stopped off here at school during the fall of 1948. Though he came from Kentucky originally, his forefathers helped found this col­lege in 1808, the second oldest college (Catholic) in the country. It was nice to see him again after so many years and after a tour through the local and historic cemeter>-, so he could take pictures of the tombs of his illustrious forefathers, wc had a brief session. Incidentally, I never knew until lately that our legendar\' Red Salmon was a former stu­dent and football player here before going to No­tre Dame. 
**Larry Moore, from California, now of Washing­ton, stopped off for dinner one night. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

"Being back in the coaching business I sec Frank Leahy occasionally around the circuit. 
"During the past Christmas vacation I called on my old side-kick, Frank McAnaney of Iroquois Rd., Yonkcrs, N. Y. Between practicing law in New York City and taking care of seven youngsters when lie comes home, he is busy but seems to thrive on tlic dual assignment. 
**I get to see 'Hooley' Smith evcr>' time I get back to New York. There is one guy who hasn't changed a bit in temperament or appearance. 
**Joe Cook, '32, a former neighbor of mine in Monticello, N. Y.. several years, paid us a visit and we them, this past summer. He is one of the pillars of Sullivan County." 
John J. Hurley (secV- a"d trcas. of North N. 
Y. N. D. Club and head of bonus division ac­counting,' of .Aluminum Co. of .America at ^las­sena, N. Y.) writes an interesting letter about the 
N.D. boys in northern New York. "Larry Hodsc, '29, Jack Dineen, "31, and I are working for the .Aluminum Company of America here at the Masscna Works. Larr\- and I have been with the company twenty years. Larry is general foreman in tlie cable division: Jack is foreman in the construction division and I am in the account­ing department, head of the (bonus) 'incentive earnings division.' For a number of years Clayt. Tyo has been with the Kinney Drug Stores. Joe Bamett has his insurance business in Ogdensburg. Con Carey has been Franklin County Judge at Ma­lone for a number of years. Albert Seymour, "32, is a big potato grower near Malone. Harry Lantr>-, "30, is a gentleman farmer at Helena. "Our club had a very swell get-together last August up at Father Gallagher's, '24, home in Ly­on Mountain. He ser\Td us a wonderful steak din­ner, there were about twenty-five there and we had a ver>' pleasant afternoon and evening. He is such a kindly, man, his parish is made up of about 75 per cent miners and they all just love Iiim. I received a letter from him last week asking me to 
mention a proposed laymen's retreat sponsored by our club to be lield next Ntay or June. 
"Father gave nie the ALUMNUS with the pic­tures of the '29 class get-together. The last twenty years have sure gone by rapidly, it was such a treat for me to see pictures of so many fellows. I am sure my heart skipped a beat and more than once a tear started—memories came back of such men as (the now bishop of Buffalo) Father John O'Hara, the Fathers Charles and Hugh 0*Dann:II, Bishop George Finnegan (my aunt's brother), and so many others. My son. Jack, is a freshman at Dar:mouth College; his mother often remarks he will never like Dartmouth as 1 love Notre Dame. I only wish that it had been possible f<)r him to attend Notre Dame. 
"I compare the fellows' pictures in the ALUM­NUS with their pictures in the '29 Dome. I feel a lot better now there are a good many other fellows like myself, old gray haired so and so's. I have six children, four boys and two girls. 
"*.Any information that I can give you or in any way that I might help, I will he happy to be of service. From a guy who has some wonderful mein­«>ries of living my freshman year in Brownson, my .sophomore year in Soph Hall, my junior year in Badin. and my last in Sorin. From a guy who played a lot of ptuil in old Brownson Rec and wiio hopes to rriurn for the 25th Silver Jubilee Re­imion." 
Max Gauthicr [ Division Chief of the U. S. Dept. of Internal Revenue, Manchester, X. H., and Supt. of the Webster Pines Summer School for Prep and High Schoolers at Webster Lake) sends along a fine letter on his family and years' work. 
"The following is a brief summar>' of my past and present activities. I was married in 1935 to Juliana Mocku> of Chicago, 111. We have four hivcly rhildrcn. Maxine Louise, 13; Robert Louis, 10; Martin Julian, 8; and Juliana ^^arie, 4. Wc own our own home at 955 Montgomery St. 
"I have been employed since 1934 by the U. S. Treasury- Department. Bureau of Internal Revenue and am at pre>ent division chief of the Manchester division office. 
"Wc are the proprietors of 'Webster Pines* a private summer tutoring school for boys of high and prep scliool age. The school starts operating in July and is located on Webster Lake, Franklin, 
N. H., in the While Mountain region. . . . 
"There isn*t much else, Don, the family keeps me busy and I just keep going and hope that I can continue to help Notre Dame a Utile bit now and then We've just finished the income tax filmg pcricid and it feels good to be able to relax a bit." 
Dick Haugh (U. S. Department of Labor, assist­ant veterans employment representative, 216 N. Michigan St., South Bend) writes the following let­ter: 
"As you can sec I am still with the Federal Gov't. I travel Indiana north of Indianapolis, make mv home in Delphi, but my traveling headquarters are 216 North Michigan, South Bend. I am single, belong to the N.D. Club of the Wabash Valley, Elks, American Legion and the Indianapolis Ath­letic Club. 
"I sec Jim Quinn at Gar>-, Jim Digan, Logans­port, aitd Larry O'Connor at Lafayette quite fre­quently. I have worked with the State and Federal Employment Service since 1933 with the exception of three and one-half years in the Army (finally got to be a major). Will try to get out to sec you one of these days." 
Leo Rees (Rcprescntative-Durotest Corp. of Ber­gen, N. J. lives at 312 N. George St., Rome, N. Y.) sends a fine letter on his activities and '29 men in his district. . j^ 
".As you probably remember, for several years prior to the war, I ran the Beaver Brook Golf Club in Rome, N. Y. When most of my customers went elsewhere in 1942, I joined up with Thomas 
A. Edison, Inc., at West Orange N. J., and got to be a superintendent working on the proximity fuse. Next stop was at North American Phillips Co. at Dobbs Fcrr>- and Mount Vernon, N. Y., and occasionally got to a meeting of the Notre Dame Club of New York. Fred Davis, '30, and Tom Lantry, '29, were usually on hand. 
''In 1947 I had a chance to return to Rome (where it takes only ten minutes to take our three kids fishing) as a salesman for Durotest Corp. of North Bergen, N. J. Right now* I cover 14 coun­ties in upstate New York and occasionally bump into some of the fellows I haven't seen in years. Remember Si Sargent who used to run the rec room in Washington Hall? He's city clerk of Og­densburg-I hear Joe Bamett is doing well there also, in the insurance business, and that Joe Brandy runs the radio station there. Of course, I see some of the Rome and Utica alumni occasionally includ­ing Fred Herbst and Lester Lovier, '25. I saw-Hank Bums at Saratoga recently. There's also a welcome card cver>' year from John Waltz. 
"Remember me to Paul Bartholomew. Last time 
X was out your way was 1931, but should make it 
for the 25lh reunion." 
Tom Jones (attorney. First National Bank Bldg., 
Boise, Idaho; governor of the N.D. Foundation 
of Idaho; and listed among the Who's Who in 
Catholic America) writes the following; 
"I have just received your card, and if there 
is any publicity to be had, I would set up all night 
to give you any" and all information. Instead of 
writing about myself, which I know will be of the 
most interest, I wish to write about the alumni 
here; the Notre Dame Foundation, what it is 
doing, etc. . . . 
"Mr. Paul Kohout, '25, president of what we terai the Idaho Notre Dame Club, is an executive officer of the Securities Stale Life Insurance Co., Boise, Idaho, and is doing an excellent job for himself. 
".Mr. Francis Ncitzel, '24. is an executive in his own finance company and his brother. Mike Neit­zel, '24, is also with lum. They are known as the Francis and J. M. Neitzel Finance Co. 
"Emmctt Hood, '20, who has a son, John, (grad­uating) at Notre Dame this year, conducts the in­terests of his father's estate and Ins own interests at Pocatello, Idaho, and is enjoying prosperity. The same for James W. Brady, '29, whose busi­ness is the Idaho Falls Post Register and who owns radio station KID at Idaho Falls, and another ra­dio station at Twin Falls, Idaho. 
"Joseph Ncttleton, who is a '29er, is an ex­ceedingly prominent catlle rancher and is pres­ident of the Cattle Growers Association and chair­man of the Tax Commission. He is an outstanding public official and has just recently adopted a son. 
"Tim Coughlin, '32, is employed by the Best Foods Corp. and has three children. Tim likewise is making good progress. 
"The following are graduates who are making good records for themselves: Jess Hawley, John Moloney, Dr. J. Beeman, Carl Gaensslen, William Harbert, Walter Kcfe, Leo Palumbo, John Car­berr>'. 
".As for myself—since my graduation from school I have been practicing Uw in Boise, have \^^^ and three children. My eWest son, T. J., in, » a junior at Notre Dame and lives at 149 DiBon Hall. My daughter, Maureen, is 17, and just this week won for the third time the^ Idaho Sute Championship among jtuuor girl skiers.^ At the present time she is competing in the National Ski Meet at Alta, Utah, and has won several titles in this field. My youngest son, Gerald, is pre­paring to enter Notre Dame three years hence. 
"I belong to the Hillcrest Country Club of this city, and to the Sunset Club, and reside at 1317 North 24th Street in Boise. One of the factors I am exceedingly proud of, is that my office is completely Notre Dame. I haw the privilege of having associated with me, Mr. Fraads H. Hida of the class of '48, and as far as I know, ray office is the only law oflBce in Idaho that is com­pletely staffed by Notre Dame men. I intend to be in South Bend next week and will try to look you up." 
Bill Riser (Sales Engineer, General Electric, Buffalo, N. Y.) sends along this note in signing up for our 25th Reunion: 
"Unfortimately I was unable to make the 20th Reunion. I haven't been back to Notre Dame' since 1936 when we were married in the Log Chapel. As you can see from the letterhead I'm associated with General Electric as a Sales En­gineer and have been Ifxrated here for over 8 years. Margaret and I have two children—Grace 9 years and Bill 8 years. I'm a member of the Illuminating Engineering Society of Buffalo, St. Bart's Holy Name Society and of course, the local 
N.D. Club. 
"The *29 Class is scarce locally but I do see H«ink Bums occasionally. Last summer I saw Art Lintz who is still in Rochester and Jerry Bosh, now located in New York. I'll be back one of these days and you'll be the first one I'll look up. Best regards, Don, and sign me up for the 25th Silver Jubilee Retmion." 
Mrs. Sylvester Wagner (5605 West 6th Street, Duluth, Minn.) WTites the following sad letter about the death of her husband, Sylvester. The clas^ of '29 is having an additional Mass cele­brated for her husband and he will be included in all '29 group Classes in the future. "I receiv­ed the letter you had written to my husband a few days ago. I deeply regret that I had not written to the University before this to inform you of the death of my husband, SyKester N. Wagner. He was killed while at work at the American Steel &. Wire co. on March 4, 1949. He was badly burned as the result of an explosion and died about eight hours after the accident. He was 48 years of age. He is survived by four chil­dren, two boys and two girls and myself. The oldest child is sLx years of age. His parents are both living. 
''I am enclosing a dollar to have a Mass said for him in the Sacred Heart Church at Notre Dame. This would please Sylvester a great deal. He just lived Notre Dame. He couldn't say enough good things about your school. His only regret was that he didn't establish himself somewhere in South Bend so that he would be able to go there often. In all my life I've never heard of anyone so proud of his .Alma &fatcr. My only wish is that our boys will have the opportunity to enroll at Notre Dame." 
Sid Sidenfadeo (Pres. of Suburban Gas Service, Ontario, Calif.) signs up for the 25th Reunion with the following interesting letter: 
**I'm earning a linng as president of Subur­ban Gas Ser\'ice, a fair size small corporation serving butane and propane gas for cooking, water heating, etc., to over 9000 families throughout Southern California. The company has 13 plants from Santa Maria to Imperial Valley. 
"I succumbed to my wife's wiles in 1940 and thus far we haven't wasted much time familywise. Susan, 9; Tommy, 7; Margaret, 6; Bobby, 5; Billy, 4; John Patrick, 3; Mary Louise, 2; and Jane, 3 months, comprise the present family. We lost one boy last summer who would have filled the gap between Klary Louise and Jane. Judging from Dick Nowery's '29 dope sheets of last year I hereby claim title to the family man of the Class of '29. No arguments, please! 
"Other than my brother, Oscar (*Si*), class of '20, I haven't seen a Notre Darner for a long, long time. Art Farisaea lives here in Ontario, works for General Electric, and even Art's present doings are beyond my reporting. Best wishes. I certainly enjoy reading about my former friends in 
31 

May-June, 1950 
tlic columns of the ALUMNUS. I'm surely go­ing to make the 25th reunion in '54.'* 
Ted Witz (sccV, Old Pueblo Savings & Loan Company, Tucson, Ariz.) sends this note along: "As the above letterhead tells you. I'm in the savings and loan business and keeping out of mis­chief. Still am unmarried, but even after all these years I have hopes for the future. 
**I am deeply interested in parish afTairs. Holy Name Society and our local Xotrc Dame Club of which there arc about eighteen members. Had a ver>- nice visit with Rev John J. Burke, C.S-C, ficc-prcsfdcnt of business afTairs at Xotrc Dame, who is spending some time in Tucson. Sign me up for the 25tb Silver Reunion." 
Your class secretar*-: Don J. Plunkett, Depart­ment of Biology, Notre lyamc, 2nd. 
Father Flavian Voet died Feb. 3 of a heart attack. Father Voct had been pastor of St. Joseph's Parish in .Apple Rii*cr, III. For a number of years lie was Illinois State chaplain of the .American Legion. 
James Keating has been elected president of the Optimist Club of South Bend. Keating's address is 1241 SunnvTnede, South Bend. 
Ra>*niODd Xf. Hilliard, welfare commissioner of the Cic\' of Xcw York, was honored with a special citation at a Brotherhood Week old-folks party sponsored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews. The citation, read by Jack Singer, presi­dent of the Home of Old Israel in Sew York, praised Hilliard for his ''outstanding achievements in fostering the American principles of brotherhood and interfaith understanding throughout the year in the day centers maintained by the city for its aged citizens." 
7930—20'Year Reunion 
$1,408.50 contributed by 70 class members 
John E. Conway writes that he is now 5er\-ing as field director with the Red Cross at Ladd -Air Force Base, Fairbanks, Alaska. 
-April issue of Sign magazine carried a personal­ity feature on Ray Gager, Foundation governor for Xew Jersey. "If you arc too bus>* earning a living to spend time promoting Catholic Action." said Sign, "then meet Ra>'mDnd Geiger of Maplewood, 
X. J. . . . Though business consumes much of his time, he is busy promoting the Faith. He founded the X'octumal .Adoration Society in Xew Jersey and while in the Army, also in Rockhampton, Australia. He is an active member of the First Friday Club, Holy Xame Society, and Knights of Columbus. He is also the director of Notre Dame alumni actiWties in his native state." We'll forgive Sign for that last inaccuracy". 
.According to a clip from the "Social Planning X'cwslellcr'* sent its by Ali'na Costin^ Edmund J. Radzuk has been appointed commissioner of the St. Louis Council on Human Relations by St. Louts Mayor Joseph Af. Darst. He had been welfare ad­ministrator for the Eighth Army in Japan, a lieu­tenant in the Nav>- (1944-46), executive officer for the USO (1941-43), and instructor in the School of Social Scr\-ice at St. Louis University (1934-40). 
If the Alumni .Association sets up a prize for the alumnus traveling the longest distance to the re­unions ne.\t month, it might well go to Joe Apo­daca. Joe reports that he has just received home leave from the General Motors branch in Buenos .Aires, Argentina, and will be on deck for the Class of '30 reunion. Joe is director of public rela­tions for G.AL in Argentina. 
1931 
$1,853.50 contribuled by 99 class members 
-A '31 graduate was instrumental in early plans for the first Catholic universi:y in Australia. The idea of the university first came up when Father Patrick Duffy, C.S.C., visited Australia as a naval chaplain during the u-ar. A site for the new univer­sity has been acquired 15 miles from Sydney. 
A poslcard from Al Abrams informs us that he's 
in Europe looking over Paris and London. 
32 
Dr. Freeman LongK'clI has settled in Denver and joined the Denver Alumni Club. 
Mr. and Mrs. Thomas R. Ashe have announced the birth of their adopted twins, Maureen Anne and Michael Thomas, March 29. The Ashes live at 8947 Madison Ave., Southgale, Calif. 
1932 

$1,689.38 contributed by 82 class members J 
Fram JIM COLLINS: 
Ben Mikes was in town recently and brought me up to date with the Chicago fellows. He is an auditor for the Local I-oan Co, and covers most of the country. He said Terry Dillon is vice-president of the company, and that Gene Calhoun and Ed Shecran, '31. arc in the Los Angeles office. 
I Iieard recently of the death of OIlic Powers' father following a heart attack. 
Br. John "Red" Jackson is practicing medicine and living at 89 Ridge Lane, Lcvittown. N. Y. Bill McCormick, who called Miami hb home for many years, is living at 40 Martinique, Tampa, Fla. 
Baden Powell is liring in Los Angeles and is pro­duction manager with KFI-TV, and says he can be put down as a California resident for years to come. He left the Mutual Broadcasting Co. and X'cw York two years ago. 
He writes that Jack Werner has been in L. A. since Xav>* days, has two sons and a daughter, and otherwise has not changed much since campus days. Jack Skcchan, once of Pittsburgh, is there and unchanged except for 75 more pounds spread over liis tail frame. 
Others he mentioned arc Gene Calhoun, now president of the XD club there. Clc\e Carey, *33, who is advertising manager for the Rexall stores, and Lcs Raddatz, '33, who is publicity director for the Xational Broadcasting Co. there. He sees Sam (now known as S. Patrick) Locken occasionally, and George Brntly R\-an, now a successful law\-cr in Bfvertly Hills, Bob Leppert and Leo Banes. 
Baden asks: "Is Art Himbert still with the Miami Herald? Where is Joe Toussalnt? How about Roy Catizone? Is Dutch Uhlme>-cr still in Rock Island? .Any news of, Frank O'Connor of Herkimer, X. Y., or Joe Heidc of Jersey City Seems to me that he was »i-orking for Brinks in Boston a fev%- years ago but has picked up an E.E. degree at ViIIano\-a after he Icit X'D." 
Baden's address, for the benefit of any of the above who can answer his questions, is 812814 W. Norton Ave., West Hollxnvood 46, Calif. 
Bob Lcc, now a lieut. commander U.S.X., writes from the X'a\-al .Air Station at Pensacola where he is the legal officer. His twin daughters arc graduat­ing from grammar school this spring and says he realizes lime is moving along. 
He says a few X'D men have been through there recently, among them being Comdr. Bill Hawkcs, '33, who is the Bureau of .Aeronautics representative there. Father Joseph Fit^erald, who went to ND in '26, is the base chaplain. Cmdr. Larry *Moon* Mullins and Lieut. Gerry Fimieran, '33, were there for two weeks this winter. Moon proudly told of his family, including all six children, but had to be prodded to tell the secrets of his undefeated season at Sl..Ambrosc last fall. Bob's brother, Maury, '33, with the laiter's wife and two children, spent a winter vacation with him. Maurx- is a successful lawv-er in Chicago, and recently was elected one of I'le top positions in the Chicago Elks lodge. 
Ed O'Connor, director of displaced persons for the federal government, is scheduled to give an address here soon and wc are looking forward to it. 
The ALUMNUS is interested in finding the whereabouts of Robert R. Shenk, who is belined to be a member of the class of 1911. Anyone knowing Shenk's present Jocatkm should advise the alumni office or Father J. 
X. Gar\-in, C.S.C., at Notre Dame. 
Graduations and reunions will be almost over by the time you read this so it will be less than two years until our twentieth reunion. We arc going to start the preliminary planning for that occa­sion ver>- soon, and I have asked Cliff Prodehl to take charge of it. Any plans made or contemplated will be announced in this column or directly to you by him. However, it is not too early to start thinking about it and arranging vacations, etc.. to take it in. It will probably be the second weekend in June. 
Your Class Secretary: Jim Collins, 17 Triangle A«T., Dayton 9, Ohio. 
Don McManus was elected controller of Landers, Frar>% and Clark, nationally known manufacturing concern of Xew Britain, Conn., at the annual meet­ing of the firm's board of directors. Don will be in chaise of all accounting functions in his new posi­tion. He has been with the firm since 1945. 
1933 
$1,560.50 conlributed by 88 class members 
From JOE McCABE: Before passing on to the long list of contributions from class mates which wc again failed to receive, ivc'd like to pay tribute to One Who Has Gone— though not, thank the Lord, in the usual sense! Wc mean, of course, Bill Doole*', who has aban­doned the wit-scrambling pursuit of trying to get us columnists to turn in our copy on time. Bill is now Placement Director and Notre Dame couldn't have picked a better guy. Since we're pretty much of a non-corresponding class (the harsh truth, lads) please take this as a sort of group commendation. Bill—well done, and lots of the best of luck at your new post. 
Greetings to you, John Bums, as replacement for the Placement—and we'll do our best to make your assignment pleasant. I'm afraid you'll find our offerings pretty light on Who's Where Doing What stuff, and pretty heavily padded with what might be called McB^el; but wc trust Bill left you his big blue pencil, and there'll be no hard feelings if you cut us to rock-bottom—right where L'ncle Sam left us March 13. 
Saw a lot of guys at the Unixersal X.D. dinner, uhich did quite well in spite of the fact that we handled the publicity. Seriously speaking, it was a lot of fun, and tvc feel sure the members of the Chicago Club of Notre Dame will agree that the Chicago papers \vcrc mighty cooperative in print­ing our releases and pictures concerning the an­nual dinner. 
We can't begin to list all the familiar faces wc saw, but we'll take a stab at it—and if we omit an>4Mxly, why don't you take a stab at a piece of paper with a pen, and let us know about it? 
.Among those present, from this bird's eye-view: Tom Spence McCabe (Nothing like mentioning the tribal name first. Tom says his big brother Joe McCabe is at present on the coast but will be back East for at least a visit soon.) Jim Cronin, his dad, Mark Cronin, Tom "Kilty" Gorman, Ed Stephan, Nick BahVmg (who said Motts Tonelli was present), Jim Caraiody, Judge Roger Kiley, Paul Conaghan, Barry O'Keefe, Pat Crowley, Frank Afaiabosky, Jim HoM-ard, Bob Gorman, Fred Becklenbcrg, Jer­ome Crowley, A. C- Stephan, John O'Shaughnessy, Dan O'Connel, and of course the many other com­mitteemen and Chicago Club officials . 
X^ext night, at the dinner honoring one of our best-known alumni. Arch ^V'ard, wc saw (in fact wc were the guest of) Neil Hurley. Also Ben Salvati, who is leaving the West Coast to return to the . Midwest. >Vith Ben was Jim Downrs. Ben says he'll have some news of our schoolchums living out there in the Millennium, which apparently extends from San Francisco to Los .Angeles, or vice versa, 
depending on which of the two is your home. 
MAY IS THE MONTH to get started on that added devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary which we often have mentioned. By the time you read this it may be too laie to attend Mass and receive Communion on the first Saturday of May. If so, start it off in June—she »von"t be offended, but she is waiting for you. Remember, we went to her school, and she is the most generous of all inter­cessors upstairs! Gi\*e the First Saturday devotion some long thoughts—or belter than that, tr>- ir 
The Noire Dame Alumnus 

Irish Sports Stars Lead Loyalty Demonstration 
Several fonncr N.D. athletic stars led the college division of New York's Loyalty Day parade up Fifth Avenue April 29. Left to right are Bob Hamilton, captain of the 1927 national championship basketball team; Jim McGoldrick, AU-American guard and 1938 grid captain; Greg Rice, world-famous distance star, and J. Joseph Smith, commander of the New York County Council of the V.F.W., which sponsored the parade. Marchers numbered 100,000. 
nut. If this sounds like an advertising pitcli . . . best man and groomsman for Gene Blisb and Su­>vrll, that's what it is! san Monti in a wedding of unusual beauty. The And write, will you? constant and pleasant demand of San Looie hos­pitality prevented a check-up on Dr. Jim Murphy 
Your Class 5ccrctar>': Joe McCabe, Rosary Col' lege. River Forest, III. 
and George Bruno, but wc hear they're still there— silent, as the rest of you men bereft of the use of pen. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charlie Farris arc the parents of a sfven-and-a-half-pound son, John Tcrrancc, born 
We three defenders in that land of the \-io-April 6. Charlie reports that young Terr>' should 
lent Billiken xvere exposed to some expert St. Louis be a match for his predecessors. Pat and Mike. 
U. alumni derision, for the previous Saturday the Bills had dumped the Krausemcn in basketball. 
The Farris family's addrtss is 201 Belleview Blvd., 
Blessings on Moose's posse fer shootin' 'cm down .•\pt. B-1, Alexandria^ Va. 
in the return test at ND, for we then had reason Lee Nulty has hccn moved from Salt Lake City to 
for na-Jty retorts by u-ire from a safe distance. Washington. D. C , Lee works for the FBI. Long may that stout rivalr\' flourish; it's good re­lationship between two good schools with the same 
Jerry Kane, ex-secrctar>' of the Western Wasliing­aims. 
ton Club, reports that John English, the club's re­tiring president and an old '33, will be married Gene and Susan, incidentally, arc now at 1370 August 12. Madison. Denver. 
Vince and Hazel Fchlig just welcomed newcomer the Xational .Association of Clinical Laboratories. 
Robert M. Johnstcn has been elected president of 
Daniel (Felilig Xo. 5) to that wonderful household Dear 33's: 
at 7011 Lindell, St. Louis. Score: Boys, three; Girls, two. We were royally housed there during the events surrounding tlic Blish nuptials. 
1934 
ON DOWN THE LINE . . . 
.Another quick hook-slide into third base on a run through Huntington, Indiana, allowed a sup­
$1,857.50 conlributed by 92 class members 
per stop with Paul Manoski, the lad who puts the sun into the Sunday Visitor. 
The class roster shows many '34 names in Chl-From ED MANSFIELD: cagoland, and yet attendance at ND events such as The class of '34 won many distinctions—mostly 
the Extension Magazine .AII-Amcrican award night Iionorable. 
(Drake. Chicago Club), tlie glee club conccrt( Mor­rison, Chicago Campus Club), and the Universal Now* another comes to liglit—not so honorable. 
Xotrc Dame Night dinner (Drake, Chicago Club) Thirty-Four can nou- be singled out as the only brought few '34 faces into focus. XD class ever to be graduated wi.hout learning lo write. 
FAITHFUL FEW . . . That's based on the great, sullen silence insofar 
Many 15 years-plus have left some faces (and as its scattered members arc concerned. Even the the secretary's 0-0) out of focus, but about the journalism people and the glib English majors never only profiles seen at the above super events were write. 
Fred Weidner, Ed Krause (with the head table So, the secretary' is driven, not underground, but brass UXD Night), and Kitty Gorman. Joe Mc­overground in search of newsworthy nolcs. Cabe, word-wizard neighbor and Rosary pubUcitor in charge of the '33 news beat, claims'Kitty one ST. LOUIS NEWS . . . month, and wc use him the next; he's handy for One overland journey to St. Louis enabled your both of us, for he's faithful at these Chicago events, scorned sccretar>* and Vince Fehlig to line up as 
and tied up with both classes. 
May-June, 1950 
Class coimiks of ours cQcotmtcrcd at these gather­ings were Thirty'Thrcc men Bob GonuBi (AIl­Sta:c Insurance), ^ t Cnmley, Joe (Wariag) Mc­Cabe, and Ed Stcphaa. And that brings vpz where's Jim Kcarm? Thirty-Fivers should be proud of the professional job Art Coarad did in running the N D Club-Extenston Magazme football dinner at the Drake. 
Hiirty-Six cotisins of ours included Tamr Soolaro and Dom Varrave:to, fellow legal eagles, and the Kelln, Babe and Don. Thirty-Niner Rlario Timdfi is doing nicety in Chica^^ pi^itical drcles, and should continue this fall. Thirty-Eigfater Dan*! GAba was thar, too. 
MESSRS. PRESIDENT .. . 
One of our own also claimed by *38, Joha Laccr, is now CO of the Chic^o club, and off to a fine start. His first major project, the UND Night din­ner, gave him chance to welcome a packed house of 700 at the Drake and a packed bimdie to his own house. Carol's cries shook down the thunder April U. 
That brings up club presidents (Lacey brings them up, not Carol.) Did you know '34 chums not only Chicago's head man, but Mike Balos of Cen­tral New Jersey, George Martinet (hi, Cooneyman) of Alonongahela Valley, and Ru l McMamis of Puerto Rico? More overlappcrs who were class cousins and non-club presidents down yonder arc Bob Keatine, '35, of Dubuque; Jtm Carrica, '33, of Louisville (and their work for orphans on foot-^ ball tri[» has aroused much neM-spaper praise in julep-land); Frank Hodwcitcr, '34, of Baltimore, and Nick (Scholastic) Comsar, '36, of Indianapolis. 
HARP'S THAT ONCE THROUGH O'HARA'S HALLS . . . 
Another '36.'3S note: Jack Sbeehan, ex-Kansas City-zen, and John McCartf, all-time Denverite, are now in plumbing and heating engineering together in Denver. Two fine harps like that should make beautiful music—and prettier money. 
COPYCATS .. . 
Bob Cahill's exhaustive efforts to give us a complete reunion last Jtme came to the notice of *35 people now due for one. A file of his ideas was combed carefully at a comnuttec session m Knrt Sana's hospitable home in Sou h Bend. The '34 secretary was there to protect CahilPs copyrighted reunion methods, and had a fine evening remember-when­ing with Paul Fergus of advertising, John (New England) Ryan of Associates Investment, ^ t Lyacb of O'Brien Paint, and Kurt of Simon Brothers. They even fired me with the idea of jeming their *35 reunion clan this June! 
NOW HEAR THIS . . , 
Here's something: to save three cents, when you write those "dear old pal" letters to Cahill for 163 tickets to the Carolina game, put in some news stuff. Then Cahill's capable Miss Hitcfaner will channel news notes to me, you'll get your tickets (ha!) and. we'll all get more news—all for the same three lousy cents. 
Another '34 cousin of the '36 clan is Joseph Daly (Slippery Joe) Sullivan, who knows many *34 men and many from '04 to '44. Among the glad-to-be­therc breakfast guests after Joe's Log Chapel wed­ding were the omnipresent John I-acey, Lou ('36) Hansman, and this chronicler. Mrs. Sulh'yan was Maryjane Carslake of Los Angeles. The couple is aow in Detroit, where Joe is still with United Air. 
ST. LOUIS BREWS . . . 
Russ Leonard is now sales promotion manager for Falstaff Brewing Corp. at 3617 Oliver, St. Louis, 
(Thanks, Jim Armstrong, for that note.) Suave Russ is now close enough to breathe personal defiance at the fortress of foam wrhosc banners read Anh—r 
B—h, another giant St, Louis malt maker you've heard about. 
STRICTLY SWIPED • • • 
Bob Cheaal was chairman of the Cincinnati dub's annual Communion Sunday' arrangements. .. . Father £d Seward ts assistant chancellor of the diocese of Cleveland and teacher at St. John's College. .. . In Fort Wayne, Harry HaaOiffcc&t helped with that club's Commtmion Sunday. . . . Stnria Caaafe looked good in the Memphb club's photo of their Communion Sunday group, and Joba MontedonicD and Waller FnmMoU looked just as good, if these old 0-0*5 »crc correct in their peer­ing. . . . Carl Unk worked with llic Pittsburgh club on its annual retreat. . . . Frank McGahrcn was belatedly reported at the Carolina game with his two children. . . . 
INFORNf.\TIOX BOOTH . . ­

Old names at new places (free, for your address book): Edward J. Butirr, 14 Brentwood Drive, Hol­den, Mass. Reuben Grundeman, 5121 Queens Ave., Minneapolis {left Madison, Wis.). Ralph Huller, 9 Pleasant Ridge Ave., Fort Mitchell, Covington, Ky. William A. McCarthy, 1213 S. Dettman, Jack­son, Midi. George A. Rochcleau, 1011 Hubbard Rd., Winnetka. 111. Frauds C. (my Howard next-doorman] Ulmer, 112 X. Broadway, Ir\ington-on­
the-Hudson, X. Y. \(ca culpa note: Vour refusal to touch pcnpoint to parchment reduced this roving correspondent to abject plaeiarisni. 
Those gleanings above under ''Strictly Swiped" actually came from a furtive underlining of names in the entire last issue of the ALUMNUS. What a low way to assemble a storv'—and earn tlic ic>" stares of cit>- club secretaries and fellow class news­rocn. To make mc an honest, independent reporter once again, won't you send a postcard? Letter? Wire? Phone call? Smoke signal? Even a radar pip would let us know thcre^s life left. 
Maybe we should think about a IJar's contest. 
SOUND OFF! 

Your club secrctar>-: Edward F. Mansfield, 6575 Glenwood, Chicago 26, III. 
Mr. and Mrs. James Michael Reishman are the parents of a son, Vincent, bom April 12. Vincent, born on his parents' wedding 3nnJVfrsar>* is the Rcishman's third son. 
1935—IS'Year Reunion 
$1,647.00 contributed by 95 dass members 
From HOCH: 

Well, gang, the 15-ycar reunion is just about on us. How are we going to shape up when the noses arc counted? The South Bend committee tells us lliat ''enthusiasm" is replacing the '"Jcthargy" of the past few months and that^s wliat we need if wc arc going to makp this 15ih anniversary of our sheepskin larccncy a success. The South Benders have been working the alumni office into a lather and our erstwhile co-chairmen Bill Ryan and Joe L^Tidi have done yeomen work in getting out the call to the convocation. 
For a while responses were not too good—but now that we arc getting down to the five-yard line the good old '35Vrs arc coming through. That old college spirit is rearing its head and the zip that kept the corridors of Sorin, Walsh and Badin ring­ing is coming to the fore once again. 
Xow that we are dose to the goal ue arc look­ing fonvard lo a surprise finish. Tin's issue of the .\LUMNUS will hit the cluttered coffee tables and desks of the 'S^Vrs at the last moment and wc hope will bring in iliose indecisive reunionites who to date have not made up their minds. Those arc the ones wc want to reach. For the men who have long since decided that reunion is impossible— all wc can say is "you don't know what you're missing!*' 
Late in .April your scribe wrote the 40 area chair­
men. Here is the report from around the countn.-. 
From Ed O'Hara in Niagara Falls, N. Y. Ed, for 
the past two years, has been the Health Educator 
for the Tuberculosis and Health Association of Nia­
gara County. He writes the following will be com­
ing from his locah'ty: Bill Miller, District Attorney 
of Niagara County; Bob Simmons, hardware mer­
chant of Rochester; and Ed himself. Among those 
who begged off were: Charlie Bragg, Elmer Bum-
ham, Fred Erdic, John GilloIIy, and Arnold Mor­
rison. 

From Jim Sc\-mour, the co-chairman from Nia­gara Falls covering western New York, comes a note on others in that area: Don Love, John No­*ak, ^tikc Sheedy, Gfaarlie Novak and Jim him­self, will all be with us. Jim is one of the officials 
34 
of the Hooker Electro-Chemical Corp. of Niagara Falls. He slated that Bill Cass and Joe Flyna arc not expecting to make reunion. 
John Nceson, attorney in Philadelphia, wrote that he and his co-diairman, Ray Brodcrick, will both be on campus "with bells.*' They have heard nothing from the other nine in their territor>-. 
Xicfc \'airo. County Clerk up there in Houghton, Mich., said that he has received no dope from any of the men in his area, but he will be with us. 

From Jim Keough (don*t know what he's doin') and Dick Shamla came word that John Ka\'anaug;Ii ­will join them at reunion. No further report from others on their lists out there in Minnesota and North Dakota. 
Jim Hamilton and Ed Kilmurry both replied as co-chairmen for the Wisconsin region. Tliey report that John Burke and Mart Hcndcle plan to attend with Jim and Ed.. Jack Shodron might be present. Among those who arc not expecting to make re­union are Rei'. Casimir Grabar, C.S.C.; Brother Frands Bor^a, C-S-C; R. S. Balliet and Frands 
L. Koppelberger. The Treasury Department's ace, Frank Holabao, reports that he likely will not be able to make re­union, due to pressure of work. Frank sent out 25 letters and got no response at time of writing. Frank said Camilec Gravel will be on deck. Tom Owen, down in Chattanooga, reported on his responsibilities. Neil Farrell is reported in, as 
arc John Foss and John Pcndrrgast. Tom, himself, will be there. 

Pat Fisher came through with a complete report. Those attending arc: Jo; Argus, Joe Beck, Dick Bigins, Don Felts, Art Kranzfelder, Joe Dniecker, John Krebser, Merle Settles, Joe Underkofler, and Pat Fisher, himself. Tentative plans have been made by Jim Shells, Gene 0*ReilIy, Frank Wcl­don, Jim Dwyer, Clarence Pickard and Dick Schager. 
Your scribe covered his own 22 men and re­ceived responses from 10. Of the 9 replying, only the following arc attending: Tom Flynn, Gene O'Brien, and Roy Scholz. The Hochreiter clan is descending upon South Bend as a unit. We made hotel reser\*ations last fall, before the Elks decided to sharpen their horns in South Bend. Our plans arc to arrive during the morning of the 9th. 
That's it, gang! Let's hit the road and rcalJy turn out. It's been a long time! Your Class Secretary: Frankl>-n C. Hochreiter, 1327 Pentwood Road, Baltimore, Md. 
From the 1933 Class Reunion Chairmen: Sorr>* we missed a reunion "build-up" in the last issue of the .-VLUMNUS but we were so engrossed with ihc se^'cral mailing pieces on our schedule thai we didn't catch the deadline. (However, if you read your mail you were up-to-date 3n>-»vay.) 
At this writing (May 12), only a week after our rcser\-ation cards were mailed, our list of *'dcfi­nitcs" has swelled to 121. Wc have hopes of in­creasing thAt number by at least 50 to 75 by the time this ''squib" is printed. The enthusiasm of the many who have written us indicates that the spirit of the '35'crs has not diminished with age. If you have been one of those **on the fence" bow about getting off your perch right now—and jump in our direction. It isn't too late—wc promise a room and a towel for evcr>'one. If you just can't make the Friday festivities, don't forget that Sat­urday cocktail party—you'll have an opportunity* to see all your mates in one spot for the second time. 
Since our last epistle we've heard from several of our area chairmen who have been doing yeo­men work in rounding up the gang. Pat Fisher called long distance and gave us the names of ten in his district who have their plans all set and the "gals" conditioned for a w*eekend without them. A dozen or so of the other chairmen have also kept us posted and have done a lot of work in spread­ing the gospel. 
Two or three had postcards printed on their own initiative and sent tliem to their constituents with return addresses to us. No doubt many of the other area chairmen are stirring things up at this writing and AVC'II be hearing from them soon. 
Since tlJs w-jll be the last issue before the 'big time" your co-chairmen want to sincerly thank cver>'one \vho has given us a helping hand. The do­nations to the cause exceeded our expectations and wc feel a special bouquet should go to the four­teen '35'ers who (to date) contributed handsomcly 
c\en though they won't be able to attend the 
reunion. 
Wc have tried to drop a note or card of thanks to each one but if, in a hustle and bustle, wc missed you wc want you to know it wasn't through lack of appreciation. 
We thoroughly enjoyed reading the fifty odd let­ters received to date—the words of cncouragemenct they contained and the memories they brought back pni\-ided an added stimulus to your chairmen and the South Bend committee members to keep plug­ging. (We'll turn them all over to "Hoch"; they should provide welcome information for a few is­sues of the ALUMNUS.) 
Speaking of the South Bend committee, they were tops! The several group meetings we had ^vcre well attended and c\-eryonc pitched in ready and willing to do their part. 
To the names we have given you previously, here is a further roster of those who have definitely in­dicated their intentions to be on hand: Jack Pen­dcfsast, John Jordan, Art O'Neil, Frank Matavo­iky, Phil Kiriey, Joe Argus, Joe Beck, Dick Big-gun, 0OO Fdt5, Art KramrfeJder, Joe Underkofler, John Krebser, Clarence Pickard, Bill Afiller, John Annas, John Dooley, Nor mFredericks, Dan Hen ry. Tom Morgan, Al McCarthy, Tom Thompson, Tom J. Flynn, Mike Santulli, Vincc Hogan, Frank 
T. McGuire, Jack McDonnell, Dare L>-ndi, John Burke, Mike Shcedy, Joe Wischma, Luke Kelle>-, I^ul Halbcrt, Mauty Fairhead, Rocco Schiralli, John M. Hallbcrg, Ed Van Huissding, Jim Howard, Dick Walters, George Demetrio, Jack Slattcn', AI Loritsch, Charles M. Schill, George Foss, Tom Stiiogtr, John Novak, F. A. Dinern, Lou Hruby, Ray Brodcrick, Phil J. Hdnle, Dick Hyde, Clare Burner, Martin Hcndde, John Pugue, John Sboor­oo, Irwin Davis, Gene O'Brien, Gene O'Reilly, BiU Guimont, Tom Wdch, Jack Carbine, John Caresio, Jerry Foley, and Vic Arcadi (all the A\-ay from California, too!). 
In addition, twenty-one are listed as "probable" and wc hope that at least half of those have con­vinced the little lady that she can get along without them for a few days. 
It looks like a great weekend! You can't afford to miss it. Remember—five more years is a long time and, v%ho knows, it might be "Later Than You Think." —Bill and Joe 
Bob Shanohan reports that he'll be on hand for the class of '33's 15-year reunion in June. "It has been ten years since I have been on the campus," Bob sa>-s. "I doubt if I'll recognize the good old place.'' 
Andrew J. ^IcMahon has announced the forma­tion of a public accountant partnership with Ed' mund L. O'Brien. The new firm, called E. L. O'Brien and Co., has its office at 2504 Industrial Trust Building, Providence, R. I, 
Arthur L. Conrad has joined the public relations department of the Exchange National Bank in Chi­cago. 
The ALUMNUS has just been informed, by ^^^liarn Ryan, of the death from cancer of .An­thony F. Dunning in 1941. 
Tom Fh'DQ has opened his own insurance firm. It's Sampson and Flynn, Alc'candrla, Va. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank R. Sinnott arc the parents of 3 son, John Francis, born April 12. TlieiV address is 23 Bamess Rd., Warrington, Pa. 
1936 
$1,00430 contributed by 7f class members 
James J. Spain is head of the Catholic travel bureau of the Marks Travel Ser\'icc, 20 No. Wacker Dr., Chicago 6. Spain's; job is arranging Holy Year pilgrimages to Europe. 
Clarice Ann Hiznay was married to Dr, Henry 
A. Staunloa April 22 at St. Stephen's Church in South Bend. 
Afr. and Mrs. Julius P. Rocco are the parents of a son, Joseph, bom April 15. Joseph is the Roc­co*s fourth child. Their address is 303 Hillside Rd., Linden, N. J. 
Miss Maryjanc Carslake of Los Angeles was mar­ried Jan. 14 to Joe Sulli\'an in Notre Dame's Log Chapel. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

1937 
$1352.50 contributed by S2 class members 

The Houston meeting of the American Chemical Society, March 27, heard a paper co-authored by Frank P. Frascati. The paper was entitled. "The Design and Construction of a High Pressure Fbced-Bed Catalytic Pilot Unit." (Your A.B. editors con­fess to complete mystification as to what that means.) Frank is with the Texas Co. at its Beacon Research Laboratory, Peekskill, N. Y. 
Frank Meyer was victorious in the recent pri­mar\- election for county judge in Danville, 111. 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph T. Dorgan are the parents of a son, TImmas Joseph, born April 14. Their ad­dress is 910 Burr Me., Winnclka, III. 
Mr. and Mrs. Maurie Schafer, of Xfontcsano, Wash., arc the parents of a son born in the early spring. 
1938 
$2,043.50 contributed by 110 class members 

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Duke arc the parents of a daughter bom Feb. 5. The Dukes* address is 1007 Garden Lane, South Bend. 
Charlie Osbom has been made a partner in the law firm of Bogie, Bogle, and Gates. Charlie has been with the firm since 1940, according to a re­port from Jerry Kane, cx-sccretary of the Western Washington Club, who contributed a flock of class items for this issue. 
1939 
$1,490.50 contributed by 104 class members 

April issue of The Atlantic carried "The Inner Self,'* a short stor>- by Edwin O'Connor. An edi­tor's note mentioned that O'Connor was with the Coast Guard during the war and worked for the Yankee (radio) network afterward. He lives in Bos­ton now, working on his first novel and writing short stories, several of which have already appear­ed in The Atlantic. 
George Haithcock is the new public relations representative for Trans World Airlines in Washing­ton. D. C. E. J. O'Brien, Washington Club secrc­tar\', reports that George also does a masterful Job of editing the club's news sheet, the Twin Domes. 
Word has been received of the death in Lima. Peru, April 6 of Paul Kelley. Mr. KeHcy, stationed in Peru as head of the export division of the Athcy Products Corp. of Chicago, was stricken with polio and died within a few hours after entering a hos­pital. He had been a major with the Fifth Air Force in the South Pacific during .the war. 
Funeral services for Mr. Kcllcy were in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus. He leaves his mother and a brother, both living in Montrose, Calif. 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Garab, 914 Van Burcn St.. South Bend, are the parents of a son born .\pril 2. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles W. Epbgrave arc the par­ents of a daughter, Kathy Ann, born March 29. The Ephgraves live at 8130 S. Yates Ave., Chicago. 
1940—10-Year Reunion 
$2,002.75 contributed by 117 class members 

Mr. and Mrs. Elwood Lavcry are the parents of a son. their fourth, born March 20. Lavcry's ad­dress is 2303 Jersey St., Quincy, III. 
.AI C.iIIan is finishing up law school at the Uni­versity of Washington and hopes to graduate this summer. Jerry Kane reports that Al has been working days at the Boeing plant to support his wife and three children and studying nights. Kane also tells us that Burt Hall and Joseph D. Welch are nc^^' arrivals in the North»»cst. HalPs address is 7743 22nd Ave. N.E., Seattle, and Welch's is 4139 38 South, Seattle-
Mr. and Mrs. Carlos Lazaro are the parents of a son born this spring. Their address is Lazaro and Cintron, Apartado 325, San Juan, Puerto Rico. The birth ^vas reported by Juan E. Cintron who has also just become a father again. Cintron's new offspring is a girl. His address is Box 9, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico. 
1941 
$2,066.00 contributed by 122 class members 

Guest speaker at the March 31 meeting of the South Bend Rotary Club was K. S. Golpalkrishnau, of Bangalore, India. Golpalkrishnau, who received his bachelor of science degree from N.D. in 1941 and his M.S. in 1943, is studying biology at the University. He talked on industrial and scientific developments in India. 
John Meyer was victorious in a recent primary election for state representative in Illinois. Several birth announcements from the class of '41: 
Mr: and Mrs. Donald E. Kralovcc, 7600 W. Har­rison St., Forest Park, III., are the parents of a son, Peter David, born April 22. 
Mr. and Mrs. Charles T. Lattimer, IIIO S. Wash­ington, St., Marion, Ind., are the parents of a son, James Michael, born .April 12. 
Mr. and Mrs. W. E. Cotter, 1929 E. Superior St., Duluth, Minn., arc the parents of a daughter, Kathleen, born March 26. 
1942 
$1,302.50 contributed by 118 class members 
Mr. and Mrs. James P. Doyle arc the parents of a daughter, Kathleen Karen, bom March 12. Doyle, secretary- for the Tri-Citics Club, has his office at 824 Davenport Bank Bldg., Davenport, Ja. 
The "fortunes of advertising" have tarried George Thompson, former president of the Sche^ nectady Club, to Cleveland, where he's toiling for the Fuller and Smith and Ross agency. His new address is 1648 Wood Rd., Cleveland Hts., Ohio. Ed Fitzgerald is the new president of the Schenec­tady Club. 
Mr. and Mrs. John H. Detwiller arc the parents of a son, Peter Henr>', born March 8. Detwiller's new address is 720 First Street, Palmcrton.. Pa. He's a chembt with the New Jersey Zinc Co.'s plant there. 
More births among '42 alumni: 
Mr. and Mrs. James P. Doyle, a daughter, Kath­leen Karen. Doyle's address is 824 Davenport Bank Building, Davenport, Iowa. 
Mrs. James F. McNulty, Jr., 211 W. Walker Dr., Chicago 6, a son, James Francis, III, Dec. 12, 1949. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank E. O'Dowd, 831 Forest Ave.. River Forest, III., a son, Thomas Dcmpscv, born Feb. 28. 
And an engagement: to Miss Mary Ann Bcrghoff, Wilmette, 111., Dr. Thomas J. Hoban. Dr. Hoban is a resident physician at Presbyterian Hospital in Chicago. 
1943 
$1,742.75 contributed by 120 class members 
From J.ACK WIGGINS: An even share of solicited and unsolicited aid netted four letters for this publication of the class notes. They follow in the order they appeared in this correspondent's mail box (suspended though the 5er\'ice of Jesse Donaldson's couriers may be). 
Bill Tracy is doing a marvelous job of keeping us posted on the doings of the gang around New York. Bill has been kind enough to send another letter for the column: 
"Just a note to advise of some of the recent ac­tivities of the N.D. men in the area. .Attended the Notre Damc-N.Y.U. game and although we didn't look too sharp, a good time was had by alt. Greg Rice and Fraalt CoaSorti were on hand as well as the Koakel boys. I also ran into Neil Kdlr ('47). Prior to the game a luncheon was held at Toots Shor's. OUie Hmter arranged for a special table for the Notre Dame FBI men. and at least 13 of the boys were able lo attend. Hi^li Devore, newly appointed coach at N.Y.U., spoke at the luncheon. 
"By the way, Ollie Hunter is scheduled to take the big step next month. Ollie's intended is a cute FBI employee, Mary Holland." 
Jolin "Rdid*'' ILamliaa, who peddled many a varsity football team picture with me during senior year, remains mttch the promoter he was in Alum­ni Hsdl. Along with bis letter John sent an at­tractive program outlining the activities of the Sixth Annual Jacksonville (Fla.) $10,000 PGA Open Golf Tournament. The meet attracted a host of top-flight talent, largely due to the efforts of Tour­nament Cbairman> John Lanahan. The Tourna­ment was sponsored by the Jacksonrillc Junior Chamber of Commerce. The "Reb" is a *Svhee!" in the local Jaycees. His accompanying letter read: 
*'Just a note of hello! To attempt to bring you up to date, my brother, D. J., and I are in the retail lumber and building supply business. (Sec'y note: Lanahan Liunber Co., 2016 £. Adams St., Jackson­ville, Fla.) 
"I am married and ^have two children. Colleen and John, Jr., My daughter is three years old and my son is eight months. 
"It is very seldom that I get lo see any of my classmates, but ci-idently the state of Florida is one of the nation's outposts. However wc are slow­ly indoctrinating these 'rebels' into the proper University in gathering their education." 
Thanks for taking the time to write the letter, John, and thanks for your compliments about the column. 
A post card appeal to the president of the No­tre Dame Club of Philadelphia brought a reply from the ambassador of Sorin Hall, the People's Choice, Ambrose F. Dudtcy. "Dud" is serving his second term as the Philly dub president. His letter follo^\-s: 
"I received your card yesterday and made up my mind that I was going to answer it immediately so here goes: shortly after graduation I joined the Army Air Corps, wound up. flying combat in B-24's in Africa and Italy. As a group naWgator in Italy I had the rank of captain and Sew 54 missions but fortunately never receive a scratch. 
"When I returned to the United States I joined an Army All Star football team and ran across quite a feiv of the fellous on different teams: Jolio Dmze at Chapel Hill, Johnny Lujack at Ft. Pierce, Jim Mello at Camp Perry, Bill Hubcr at Second Air Force, and many others. Jim Harris Avas our line coach. 
"My biggest thrill came on the last day of the season tvben I ran into my old roomie. Dippy Evans. Wc met for the first time in three years in the center of the field in Houston, Texas. Some phott>grapher snapped a picture of.our reunion and today I have it framed and it hangs on my office wall. Needless to say, we had a great time after the game! 
"After the season I returned to civilian clothes and after only two weeks with my dad, he died and I ha\'e taken over the business. (Sec'v note: 
A. F. Dudley Wallpaper Co., 52 X. Second St., Philadelphia.) Naturally with all the building going on for the last few years wc have kept pretty busy. Part of my new business is supplying wallpaper for new housing projects. 
"On April 28, 1W9, I married Pcgg>- O'Neill, a Philadelphia girl. Wc are now the proud parents of a bouncing b^ y daughter, Dianne. One of my wife's first meals was scr\'cd to Red Lonergan, who was in town on business. I often tvonder if the old Redhead suffered any violent stomach ailments! 
"Shortly after the war I took a keen interest in our local Notre Dame club and was just re-elected president for another year. Our club is • quite active and wc arc all justly proud of it. For the last few years wc have held outstanding Universal Notre Dame Nights, drawing crowds of 750-1000. Financially we are on a pretty sound basis and hope to put the Scholarship Fund into active use in the very near future. 
"Ever since I left school I have run into many, many of the boys, both in the ser\'ice and in bus­
May-June, 1950 
incss. and it has alwa>-5 been a source of great en­joyment. Dip E«'an$ is doing great in the dr>' cleaning business in Cleveland. His address is 1408 
W. IlOth St., Cleveland 2, Ohio. Paul Toland is connected with Mack Warehouse Co.; he is our Xotre Dame club treasurer. Dr. Ralph Cambosi is now settled down after a year's Army ser\'icc in Europe. He is the proud papa of his second child born a few days ago. 
"IVclI, Jack, now I feel a lot better. I have been meaning to write this letter for the last few years, but, frankly, have just put it off. .A,nd, I have been pretty busy, too. Besides my business I have been doing a little scouting for pro football; and, since January, I have spoken at over 30 banquets." 
Well. "Bud,*V that's the kind of letter we like to receive! Even if it meant a few years wait. Thanks a million! 
Easily qualifying as having seen a good portion of this good, earth since separation from the 5er\'icc would be Joe Callahan. Having just returned from three years in the Middle and Far East with Union Carbon and Carbide, Joe writes while vacationing at his home (7208 Buffalo Ave., Niagara Falls, 
X. Y.): 
"So far I haven't seen onr ND man an\-\vht-re since returning, although I have been in touch with Don McGiann across the border in Thorold. On­tario. I'm going to New York City this week for more talks about my future plans, and it looks now as though in about two more montlis I'll be on my way back to the Far East. There is every possibility that I may be assigned to British East Africa be­cause that's the ne.\t territory our Singapore com­pany will be developing. 
''During the last several years I've traveled (and sold) in Ceylon, Siam and Malaya and while I was working in the head office of our Singapore company, my daily correspondence came from cus­tomers in some twenty-five countries in the Middle East and the Far East. It meant a lot of interesting, hard work and it goes without saying that I got a lot of experience out of it. I know that Pat Don-oi-an, who, the last I heard, was at our India com­pany's Bonibay branch, and Bob McLaughlin, who withdrew from UCC at Manila to make a great success with Pacific Merchandising Corp. there, would back me up on that statement. 
"Please pass on my best regards to our old side kick, that big department store man, Julie Durbin, tn your column." 
Periodically the Alumni Office furnishes mailing list changes for class secretaries. It strikes me that I can now use these changes to great advantage. Ihese address changes will be published as a fea­ture of the column each edition. Perhaps members of the class would like to correspond with these classmates. More important, however, we of the class will expect a letter to be sent from each of these men with the new address to the class secre­'ary. It appears now that the onlv wav to escape sendmg me that letter is not to move^or pav the rent! " 
_^ Usually a change of address should make good 
writing" material for the class column—it inav indicate a marriage, an expansion of the familv with the subsequent move to larger quarters—cer­tainly something of note for the class column. 
Thirteen new addresses mean ue can expect thir­teen letters for the ne.\t edition: 
Richard F. Bechtold, 1016 Siblev St.. NW Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Robert V. Degcniart, 101 Paramount Pkx>-i- Ken­more 17, X. Y. 
Edu-ard J. Doran, Fulton Park Apu.. White Plains, N. Y. • 
miliam E. Ford, 807 .Mission Rd., El Paso. Tex. 
Dr. James W. Ford, Veteran's Hospital. Dear­bom, Mich. 
Michael F. Godlrey, 2837 Russell Blvd.. St. Louis. 1 Joseph N. Manin, 171 Linwood Ave., Buffalo 
^\'Uliam C. Moorilead, 711 Woodlawn .•\ve. Louis­ville, Ky. 
Hllliam K. O'Brien, 64 Sagamore Rd.. Bronx­xille, N. Y. 
Capt. John F. Regan, P.O. Box 68, Ft. Lewis. Wash. 
William H. Sirycker, 5793 32nd .\ve., Minneapo­
lis, Minn. GI B Zodllke, 221 W. College Ave., .Applcton, Wis. The ultimatum has been scrs-ed! We now sit back 
to av%'ait results. 
36 
Your Class Secretary: John L. Wiggins, 6442 Latta St., Dallas, Texas. 
A letter from Willoughby Marshall informs us that *43-cr Charles E. Kfurray, originally from Wis­consin, is now in Fensacola, Fla., as head of the New York Fidclit\- Casuality and Insurance Co. office there. 
Three births among the 43 alumni: Mr. and Mrs. Eugene A. FchUg, 321 Eighth Ave., Helena, Mont., a son, Mark George, March 24. Mr. and Mrs. Allan J. Clark, 624 E. 20th St., New York, N. Y., a son, Kevin, April 14. Mr. and Mrs. Leo L. Unck, 211-12 Landreth Bldg., Muskegon, Mich., a daughter, Marv- Nancy. 
Lt. (jg) Cornelius V. Nolta, Jr., who took part of his training at N.D., was designated a naval aviator in ceremonies at Corpus Christi, Texas, April 14. His wife, the former Miss Mildred Grace of Seattle, presented his wings. Lt. and Mrs. Nolta are the parents of two children. He*U leave shortly for operational flight training with the Pacific Fleet. 
James F. Schweikcrt received a degree of master of arts in social adminbtration from Ohio State University on St. Patrick's Day. (Which Is a hell­uva time for commencement exercises.) 
Mr. and Mrs. Harold Berliner, 210 Coyote St.» Nevada City, Calif., arc the parents of a son, Har­old Anthony, born Feb. 19. 
1944 
$1,117.90 contributed by 90 class members 
From BILL TALBOT: This will be a very lean column. .-Vt the present rate of depletion of information, there won't be any column at all next issue. How about a few of you-skies opening up with some small talk? Even if it's only a post card. Even if all you've got to say is that you haven't got anything to say. Any­thing will be appreciated, juu keep the ball in play. 
Jack Connelly post-cards that he has been too busy working his way through medical school to afford the time to dig up N.D. classmates; but that he would verily like to be back In Lyons ha­rassing Father Kelly again. 
Jerry Coleman report* from Crestline, Ohio: "Franny Curran, who plays pro basketball for the Rochester Royals, stopped here enroutc to his home in Sterling, HI. 

*'We are tied in one respect: he has Kevin, Fran­cis, and Tim; while I have William, Kathleen, and Terrancc. I don't believe any of these kids ever made the ALUMNUS before. 
"Franny's prospects look good for another year of basketball and then law practice. 
**rm in the restaurant business. Bought an es­tablished business that has no keys. The joint has never been locked in 26 years. It's a good deal, but takes a lot of time. 
^"My brother, Francis, '45, Is with a rapidly ris­ing construction company in Shelby, Ohio, as a civil engineer. . , . Coach Handy is going to ad­dress a banquet for the Mansfield, Ohio, track team and I will make that." 
There's news from out of the old South, too, via Colonel Earl (Bct-a-BilHon) Englert, who writes from his new address at 6626 Strawberr>- Lane, Louisville 8,. Ky. Drawls Earl: 
"Many of our classmates and other alumni will be surprised to hear that a Holy Cross priest. Father George Holderitfa, has a Kentucky Derby eligible named after him—William Vccncman's "Black George." 
Father Holderith, golf coach at Notre Dame, is a good friend of the Veencmans, Earl relates, espe­cially of alumni Bill, Jr., and Jacque. 
*^Since the first of the year we've been busy moving, etc., so my gossip of classmates is limited. Visited with Ed Stdner and family before Icawng Dayton. Tom Shellworth worked in Dayton for awhile, then went to San Francisco, only to be sent back to Dayton temporarily by Frigidaire. Don't know if he's still there or not. 
"Who from our class resides in Dallas, Texas, or Long Beach, California? I'll be working in those cities before the year is up and would like to look up classmates in the area. 
**Talked to your old roomie. Dr. Bemie Schoo, while in Louisville recently. He's in surgery resi­dency at St. Joseph's Hospital. 
''John Guldan is now working in .Akron for Goodyear Aircraft in electronics. 
**Dick Bcniuos, working for Marathon Paper Co., in Wausau, Wis., plans a June wedding." Earl goes on to mention Bemie Bowling and his St. Matthew's bakery in Louisville, and then proffers an invitation which I am passing on to one and all: "If you ever get to Louisx'ille again drop in on us. I'll guarantee a julep that will put your head in a spin." You're on, guy. And as a postscript may we add that, since Earl's letter, Black George came romping in the winner of the famous Derby Trial, paying a tidy $33.20 for $2. 

The column's salvation this month is Jim Dana-her of Detroit, who has come through in the pinch vnih some mighty interesting news. He reports as follows: 
**Jacqu£s Rosseau was married on April 15th to Pat McCarren of New York City. Honeymoon: Bermuda. But all good things must come to an end, and upon their return Jacques will again take up the reins of being .America's tycoon of the speedy auto-wash industry'. 
**John Anhut ts stilt running the Hotels Clifford and Imperial. In February* a very welcome but non­paying guest arrived in the form of a new daughter . . . Number One Girl. 
"Memo to the Chicago Club: What is one city's loss is another's gain is only too true an axiom be­cause BakcIIte Corporation has seen fit to move Paul lillts from their Detroit branch to Chicago. Paul did a lot of ver>- good work for the Detroit Club and is certainly missed by all of us here. 
"Jack Alef has forsaken the credit department of the Detroit Bank for the more lucrative field of an insurance salesman. 
"Bob Fisher is certainly the student of the Class of '44. Still going to classes, taking a flock of nicdl­tral courses. 
*'Bob McDonald is just above me on the twenty-first floor as a new lawyer for a local law firm. 
"Dave Roney was married last Fall to Justine De Petris, one of Detroit's more glamorous red heads. He is currently chewing his nails hoping for a settlement in the Chr\*sler strike so the Roncy-Cramer agency can get some of the much sought after new automobiles. 
"Jim Shields, when last heard of, was selling brass for the Mueller Brass Company in Grand Rapids. 
"Port Huron's Weil was a distributor for Bird's Eye Frozen Foods for a while, but when last heard of was following in the family footsteps in the news­paper business. 
**BiII Roncy, who completed a course of hard knocks given by the New York Stock Exchange, is back in town as a securities salesman. Bill told me that the National Bank of Detroit knows good men when they sec them; three Notre Dame men are w*orking in the credit department. They are Bob Socsterhann, Joe Mengdon, and Terry Miller, all out-of-towncrs. What was that I said ;^out what is one city's loss is another's gain? Seems like De­troit came out all right on the deal. 
"I got a first-hand report on Jacque Vccneman of Louisville during a v-acation in Florida recently. A friend of mine met his whole family and brought me up to date. 
"As for myself, I have been slaving away (aren't we all?) trying to get the name First of Michigan Corporation better known throughout the country*. I suppose you can call mc the advertising manager. publicity manager, sales promotion manager, or general flunky-around-the-ofllcc, but my job takes in a little of all fields and it is ver>' Interesting. I keep hoping that our branch offices in New York, Chicago, Cleveland, etc., will give mc a chance to take a business trip around to sec some of my old friends from Notre Dame, but no such luck." 
In response to a note we knocked off to Frank Cooley, his mother has written as follows: 
"Frank is at present in Korea. He was with the government at the National Airport in Washington until last September, when he took this job with 
T. B. Bourne Assodatcs. He will be there until Septembcjr. Likes it very much." 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 
Mrs. Conley passes on Frank's address: Frank 

L. Conley, T. B. Bourne Associates, S.M.I.K., APO -ttM, San Francisco, Calif. 
And from our recent class secretary, John Lynch: **Just a note here, in €:a3e you haven't got it yet— Mike Kicly of San Mateo, Calif., was married April 12 to Patience Alberta Thompson; thcyVc going to live in Burlingame, Calif. Note Two: Jim and Rita Cumiingham had their second son March 30, South Bend, Ind.; John and Betty June Cowley had their first child, a son, March 4, San Mateo, Calif." 
Any detectives in the crowd? Mail addressed to James F. Gormcley, 243 Third St., Jersc>- City, is returned. 
Nineteen men have changed address since our last column went to press. Contact the Alumni Office or the Class Secretary for new addresses or upon change of awn address. Here are the names: John H. Adams, Guida A. Alexander, Eugene M. Camey, Raymond J. Dcmpscy, \Villiam J. Eaton, Dr. Kenneth A. Forbes, Roger L. Fuctter, Louis A, Goretta, Wlliam F. Hannan, Thomas E. Kelly, John D. Kf>ch, Charles G. Lyden, Gerald R. Mam-hon, \Vintam G. 0*Donn:Il, Rev. Roger Quilty, C.S.C.. Farrell J. Quinlan, AMIIiam F. Schrocder, Thomas R. Shellworth, James M. Shields. 
That's all. Wrap, it up. 

Your Class Secrctarv: Bill Talbot, 300 Main St., AVhite Plains, N. Y. 
N'ew public counselor for the Indiana Public Sen*­ice Commission is Walter F. Jones, Jr., appointed to the job last month by Indiana Governor Schrick­er. 
Dominic Boetto has teamed' iip u-iih his father in the law firm of Boctto and Boetto. Their offices are at Suite 421, Chalstrom Building, Joliet, 111. 
The ALUMNUS has just learned of the death from heart attack of Wlliam A. Rempe in Hot Springs, Ark., Marcli 27. Mr. Rempe, a veteran of three years in the Air Force, had been associated with his brother. George, Jr., in the automobile business jn DeKalb, 111. Sur\*ivors, besides his brother, arc his parents, Mr. and Mrs. George Rempe, Sr., of St. Charles, III. The elder Mr. Rempe was a member of the 1900 class of the University. 
John Hupf has been transferred from the Sears. Roebuck store in Kfount Vernon to the one in Cen­tralia. Wash. His new address is 615 Washington St., Centralia. 
Class of *44 engagements: Dick Klee of the Rochester Club reports meet­ing Mickey McConnell of Elmira. He says Mc­Connell now represents the Scott Paper Co in that New York district. 
To Miss Patricia Pctrick, Richard F. Bcnning, Wausau, Wis. 
To Miss Mary Jane Peck, Robert J. Meulcman, South Bend. 
And some '44 births: Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Deiss, Madison, Wis., a daughter, Diana, March 15. Dr. Deiss is doing research work at the State of Wis­consin General Hospital where his daughter was bom. During the war he was a captain in the Army, serving as ship's doctor on a troop transport. 
Mr. and Mrs. Frank L. McManus are the par­ents of a daughter, Xfarjoric Ann, born April 13. Their address is U- Windsor St., Reading, Pa. 
Miss Ruth Kelly was married to Bernard A. O'Connor April 11 in Short Hills, N. J. 
7945—S-Year Reunion 
$570.00 contributed by 56 class members 

Miss Patricia Ann Dw\-cr was married April 15 to Joseph Vincent Long, Jr., in Upper Montclair, 
N. J. 
1946 
$420.50 contributed by 31 class members 

Bob Batchelor sent in some dope on the Class 
of »46: 
May-June, 1950 
Peruvian Visitor 

Fernando de Romano, '24, of Arequipa, Peru, receiving a welcome from Alumni Sec­retary James E. Armstrong. Mr. de Romano had not visited the campus since he gradu­ated 26 years ago. He is a mining engineer. Kindly note your secy.'s neatly cluttered desk. 
"Eddie Stemaszek is now athletic director and assistant football coach at St. Mel High School. 
"Eddie Micszkowski has quit pro football and is now assistant coach to Terry Brennan at Mt. Carmel High School. 
"Bob Gorsld became the proud father of a baby girl born .April 1. The baby was christened Bar­bara Ann, 
"Mike Ganey is assistant football coach at Loyola." Bob himself is athletic director and head grid coach at Loyola Academy in Chicago. 
1947 
$1,364.00 contributed by M8 class members 
William P. Novack is working for the Capehart-Farnsworth Corp. in Fort Wayne. Bill's address is 840 Huestis Ave., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
Hugh Lacey, Jr., is getting along well with the Hartford Ac. and Ind. Co., according to a report from his father, Hugh, Sr. ('16). He's with the Portland, Ore., branch. 
Miss Dagny M. Lcnon of South Bend is engaged to Arthur M. Diamond. The wedding is planned for June 17. Diamond is a partner in ihe law firm of Diamond and Miller in South Bend. 
Another '47 engagement is that of Miss Raechcl Bilello to Francis Charles Pcllituri. They are to be married June 3. Pellitteri, an interior decorator and furniture manufacturer, has his ofBces at 33 Flatbush Ave., Brooklyn 17, X. Y. He's interested in hearing from any alumni in his class. 
Birts among '47 alumni include: 
To Mr, and Mrs, J. L. >MIIenbriiik, a daughter. Rose Ann, April 20. Their address is 1950 Roa­noke, Louisville 5, Ky. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Raimond A. Strufale, son, April 
25. Their address is 1844 Juniper Rd. W., South Bend, Ind. 
1948 
$1,673.75 contributed by 207 class memben 
From HERftfAN ZUT : Notes from a nimibcr of classmates indicate that in one way or another they are surviving. Joim Mnrphy writes that he is football, basketball and track coach at St. Peter's High School, Jefferson City, Mo. Recently he has had visits from Doa ComH, Bucldc O'Coaaor and BUI Vaasea. 
Larry Ryaa writes to aimounce the birth of a daughter. Larry has been working as a claim ad­juster for the Motors Insurance Corp., Milwaukee, the insurance division of General Motors. Ed lUdur has a similar job with M.I.C. in Erie, Pa. Bill McCarthy is ia Allis4^halmer*s training program in Milwaukee. Ev. ScUccfc is working for Bucyrus Erie in So. Milwaukee and still very active on the golf links. 
Jiraiiiy Braman was married to a Kfilwaukee girl recently and is assistant football coach at Pius XI High School, Milwaukee. Bob NinnemaB is studying for his patent law degree at Marquette, while working for Miller's High Life in his spare time. A bouncing boy greeted their family recently. Jack Frankel is in Med School at the University of Rochester. 
From Tnn Fry comes the report that he was best man at Bob Bailey's marriage in Dayton in November. Tom is an engineer for the B. G. Danis Co. of Dayton, and was married himself on De c 31 in Mexico City, The Frys are now living in Portsmouth, O, Larry Evert is working for the Euclid Road Machinery Co. in Cleveland. 
The Gatcns have moved back to Iowa City from Maquoketa, Iowa. The Wcib ^ were recently the proud parents of their second son. Don is still with Firestone in Kenosha. Dick EUiott, wife and 4­month old son were on campus for a little visit. Fran Curran was back bemoaning the Royal's loss to Minneapolb in the scmi-finak. The Currans now have three boys. 
Ran into Joe Baner in Danville, 111., on Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Joe is working for the Williams Furnace Co., and is the proud p^ia of a three-month old son. Talked to Jim Webb at Good Friday 5cr\-iccs—^Jim is with Bendix Home Appli­ances. Joe Bauer reports that J<An Fead is doing very well in the insurance business in Cincinnati. 
John C-ashman has moved to San Franciso>> Calif. Gunnor Hald and family arc up in St. Paul. Tom Higgtns is now living in Rochester, N. Y., while Tom Landis is living in Schenectady. Chai ^ Mc­lia is next door in Evanston. Dave Skory is work­ing for the Trans-Arabian Pipe Line in Beirut, Lebanon. Charlie Th m is living in Syracuse, while Ray Trizna is living in Lockport, III. Ed VoQ has moved to Landsdownc, Pa., while Jim Walsh has moved to Valley Stream, N. Y. Dale Winnie is now up in Detroit. Hal Xavier is Physical Educa­ation Director of the Y.M.C.A. in LaPorte. Harry Zdlstra is also in LaPorte. 
Wally Andrews is back in native St. Paul. John Archer has changed from Miami to Levittown, N. 
Y. Bill BrauQ is in ^layfield Heights, Ohio. John Flanigan is in LaFayette, Ind. Bob Johmon has moved west to North Hollywood, while Walt Krone­herger is in San Marino, Calif. Bob Kteta is neigh­boring in South Bend. 
Jerome Maxback has moved to White Plains, N. Y., Lawrence Ravule has moved to Ogdensburg, N. 
Y. Joe O'ReiUy h with the FBI in Portland, Oiv. Rutus Wilkes is now in New Orleans. 
Your Class Secretary; Herman Stt, Foaodatioa Office, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Hu ^ Lacey, Sr., '16, tells us that Jim Rowland is working in Portland, Ore., for the Gold Seal Co., Miss Claire Christine Wozniak and Joseph M. Kujawski were to be married May 20. Miss Roberta Lathrop and Lawrence Efaner Woods were married May 6 in New Britain, Conn. Several births among '4S alumni include: Mr. and Mrs. Donald C. Weibd, 6339 8th Ave., Kenosha, Wis., a son, Mark Thomas, March 20. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Flattery, 1633 10th Ave., No., Fort Dodge, Iowa, a daughter, Anne Louise, April 17. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ridiard E. Malay, Box 473, Kiiby Rd., Cincinnati 23, Ohio, a son, David Anthony, April 3. 
Mr. and Mrs. Edwin L. VoH, Jr.. 511 St. Man's St., St. Mary*s, Pa., a daughter, Dentsc Ann. Nov. 12, 1948. 
Mr. and Mrs. Larry R%*an, a daughter. Sheila 
Mar>-, Xfarch 22. 
And some engagements: 
To Miss Sally Tuohy, Cyril M. Brcnnan, Jr.,; to Miss Maxine Martin, ElH-in H. Zdlcr; to Miss Viola Van Zclst, H. William Orr, Jr. Tlieir wed­ding was planned for May 6 in Evanston, III. 
Two other engagements recently announced arc: to Miss Dorothy Lee Artz, John M. Dee, Bellc­fontain, Ohio; to Miss Joan Doris Probst, George Paul Scaly, Cleveland, Ohio. They will be married June 10. 
1949 
$2,363.45 contributed by 254 class members 
From JOHNNY WALKER: By this time, most of you have probably heard the unpleasant news of Jack Donaho2*s death; the result of injuries sustained while playing handball at the Rocknc Memorial. Jack had received his degree in Arts and Letters in June and was in law school at the timr of his accident. It was my sin­cere pleasure to know Jack personally and to have worked with him on tlic Student Council and Scho­lastic To me, and to others who knew him, he exemplified all that a good Notre Dame man is supposed to be. His life was a> inspirational as his death was untimely. I'm sure all his classmates will remember Jack in prayer. 
Quite a few '49crs have written me letters about their activities and Pd like to pass their comment on to you. 
Leo Eilune>'rr urites from Oak Lawn, Illinois: *'WelI, since June I'x-c been working in my father's dime store because of his illness. In November, dad passed away. My brother and I formed a partner­ship and arc now managers of the store. I attend night school at, pardon the expression. Northwest­ern U., studying retail store management control and German." 
John Fogarly is with the \Vood Conversion Com­pany of St. Paul and writes, "Shortly after grad­uation last January, I went to work with tlic Wcycrhauser people and was assigned to the gen­eral office in St. Paul. Come Labor Day, I was transferred to the Chicago district as a sales rep­resentative and am now traveling in a fifty-mile radius of the Windy Cit>' and liking the new as­signment very much.*' 
Tom Hyncs has a line on many of the troops. **Jadc Jacobs is doing grad work at Illinois. John Tuite is with American Tobacco in Lafayet e. Ed Kemp is at Purdue, teaching. Jim ^filIer is with Kawnecr in Niles, Mich. Fred Crowe is in law school. Fred, by the way, got his CPA on hb first tr>'. Chuck Roult is in Youngstown, Ohio. Ed Meehan is with Standard Oil in South Bend." Tom is himself with Standard Oil after a stint in Flor­ida with the Quaker Oats folks. 
Joe Welch uTites that he is with Boeing Aircraft 
at Seattle as a research engineer. Joe received his 
master's in engineering in June. 
Patricia Shannon sent in a nice little note about 
Bab Entrup of Cle\-eland Heights. Bob is with the 
State Department as a diplomatic courier with 
present headquarters, the lucky stiff, at \Vaikiki 
Beach, Honolulu. And what*s more he's getting 
married in Seplcmber. To whom? Patricia Shan­
non. 
Bob IVobst tells me that he is with Federal-Mogul Research & Development in Ann Arbor, Mich., and is lining at 504 Fountain St. Bob was graduated last August with a degree in mechanical engineering. 
My old friend and neighbor in Dillon Hall, Bob Kessin;. writes from Indianapolis that he is work­ing for the Commercial Credit Company of Balti­more (Indianapolis branch). It's a long way from foreign commerce, says B<^. Bob has a line on a few of the lads: Pliil Blum is working for his dad at the Bivan Shoe Co. in Danville, after a nice trip to Europe last summer. Bill O'Brien is an accountant with a New York insurance company and Joe Omrannon is sales manager for Concannon ^Vincs. 
Got a note the other day on the chintzy station­er>- of Colonial Williamsburg, a sightseer's Mecca in Virginia. The signer was Joe Piedm3nt, one­time Scholastic columnist and now a latter day Ben Sonncbcrg. But let Joe speak for himself: "In the way of class news; the note about me in Tom Stritcli's 'pastoral letter,* concerning my powdered wig is not wholly accurate. The truth of the mat­ter is that I am immersed in an eighteenth cen­tur>' atmoshperc here and am enjoying it im­mensely. I'm with the Division of Public Informa­tion of Colonial Williamsburg and that involves anything from doing a news story of the opening of a swimming pool to giving visiting editors *the treatment.' 
"News of other 49crs: AI Biese and Al Mosca of Norfolk are still waiting for medical school to open doors. Phil Russo, I think, is in South Bend. Phil Shea vistcd here for a spell last month and promised to return to the aforementioned eighteenth centurj- atmosphere. Last Saturday, I attended an intra-squad game of the College of William and Marv- and ran into Tal POHTII ('50) of Emporia, Va. He's waiting to go with the Slate Department, unless Senator McCarthy has the department abolished." 
BDb Afadden, Januarj- '49 Commerce grad, is working with the Thomas M. Madden Construction Co. Bob, Tom McNally and Bill Lyman—two en­terprising journalists from the SoutfatoHn Econo­mist—and your correspondent had supper together some weeks ago. We attended the DePaul-Notre Dame job forum under the guidancce of Mr. James Sanford and Mr Bill Doolcy, newly-appointed No­tre Dame placement director. Saw Paul Kloster and Gene Jones of the Sun-Times among those present. 
Bob Kane, Commerce grad, tells of his marriage April 15 to Miss Virginia Brush at St. Patrick's church in Wyandotte, Mich. Gerry Goss, '48, and Harold HofTer, '49, were in Bob's v%'edding party. 
Let me thank all those who took time out from busy programs to write of their activities. Remem­ber, it's your column, so if you have any nev%-s items about the class, just mail them in. 
Your class secretary: John P. Walker; Rodie, Williams & Cleary, 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3. 
Tom Gorman is on the research stafT of the Li­brary of Congress in conjunction with graduate work being completed at N.D. 
Courage and quick thinking enabled Edward H. Mal2n=>-, ex-49, to perform a remarkable act of braver>- in Chicago last month. Armed only with an emptT>- service revolver, Maloncv- disarmed and captured a hold-up man a tempting to rob Ma­loncy's neighbor of a $10,000 diamond ring. Ma­loncy tried to bluff the robber by holding the empty revolver against his back. When the robber swung his own pistol on Maloncy, the ex-Notre Damer wrenched the gun out of his hands and held it on him until police arrived. Maloncy, an Air Force veleran, is in the insurance business at 29 S. LaSallc St. in Chicago. 
Johnny Walker paid tribute above to Jack Don­ahoe, who died March 26 from a head injury suf­fered in a hand ball game. Here are a few more details: Jack was a junior in the College of Law and in his fourth year in the Notre Dame NROTC unit. He would have been commissioned an ensign in the naval reserve in June. He leaves his par­ents Mr. and Mrs. John J. Donafaoe of Oak Park, 111., and a brother, Thomas. 
Paul W. Bailey is in the traffic deparlment of Scherer Freight Lines in Ottawa, III. His home ad­dress is 128 E. Superior St., Ottawa. 
Donald E. Hoover is associated with the lav%* firm of Schecr and Scheer, 408 Odd Fellows Building, South Bend. 
^\*Uloughby Marshall has joined the architectural firm of Yonge and Hart in Pcnsacola, Fla. So far he's found it a most successful move. 
Leo R. Hamilton is now a Chevrolet and Buick dealer in Chippewa Falls, >Vis. He's working with his father. 
Three births among '49 alumni: 
To Mr. and Mrs. J. Murray Wieman, 3928 Glen-hunt Rd., Baltimore, Md., a son, Patrick Joseph. Dec. 17, 1949. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Louis Bbck, 116 S. Coquillard, South Bend, a son, James Louis, Jan. 20. 
To Mr. and Mrs. Albert Hardesty, SlS/a W. Fourth St., Mishawaka, Ind., a son, Mark Joseph, April 26. 
B3I Fargo, of South Bend, was married May 13 

to Miss Eleanor Jean Long at Goshen. Ind. They're 
living now in San Mateo, Calif. 
JoliB J. Marget v%ill be married to Miss Marv-Agnes Rile>' June 18 in Dubuque, Iowa. Jack is associated with the Carroll County State Bank in Carroll, Iov%-a. He was recently elected treasurer of the Junior Chamber of Commerce. 
Another marriage v^-as that of Aftss Grace Pa­tricia %fc<^ann to Jacques Ernest Rousseau in St. Patrick's Cathedral, Nev%- York. 
Miss Virginia Margaret Brush was married to Robert Ritrick Kane in Wyandotte, Mich. 
Miss Josephine M. Holzbauer and Albert John Santangclo were married April 19 in Sacred Heart Church on ^he campus. Father Thomas Brennan, C.S.C., witnessed the ceremony. The Santangelos will live in Brooklyn. 
Miss Evelyn Marie Borror was married to John Non-al Tcrrio, Jr., May 6 in South Bend. Father Howard Kenna, C.S.C., vice-president in charge of acrademic affairs at Notre Dame witnessed the cere­mony. 
Miss Maxine Theresa Balthazor was married to 

Donald R. Malthaner April 15. Don's nev%- address 
is 11600 Governor Ave., Cleveland, Ohio. He's 
v%-orking as a metallurgist at Chevrolet's automatic 
transmission plant in Cleveland. 

And several engagements: Miss Ruth Kolupa and Patrick J. Sweeney—the wedding set for May 20 in Sacred Heart Church; Miss E. Claire Quinn and Robert Hugh Campbell; Miss Frances Bickel and James Kiren Miller— to be wedded Aug. 5; Miss Lillian Toth and Frank 
J. Fahey. 
Another '49 engagement is that of Miss Virginia Cummins and Fred R. Vcit. 
Ben Kating of the Class of '25 reports that his son Jim was married ' to Miss Joanne Schlaprter Nov. 12 in Toledo. Attendants were Joe Kesting, ex<46, Ed Huglies and Ray Gans, '50. Jim is work­ing at architectural engineering for Wemcrt, Taylor, Sanzenbachcr, and Morris in Toledo. His address is 1311 Mason St., Toledo 5. 
1950 
$364.00 contributed by 87 class members 

Donald G. Dewey, junior half of a father and son team, v%'as featured in the April issue of the Northwestern Steel and Wire Co.'s employee mag­azine. Don is assistant metallurgist at the com­pany's Sterling^ 111., plant, working with his dad, a 20-year veteran at Northwestern. Don worked for the company in between times while at'ending No­tre Dame and accumulated so much experience that he moved into the assistant metallurgist post right after graduating last January. 
Northv%-estem Steel's magazine also noted a Feb. 6 appearance of N.D. back6eld coach Bill Eariey at the Sterling Community Booster Club's meeting. Ticket Manager Bob Cahill went along. 
Don Froburger is studying medicine at North­

western Universit>'. 
Jtjhn P. Norton, a January*, '50, civil engineer, is with the Turner Construction Co in New York. working on construction of a 2&-stor>* office build­ing in Rockefeller Center. His address is 440 River­side Dr., Apt. 121, New York 27, N. Y. 
Mr. and Mrs. Anthony J. Panzica, 618 S. St. Joseph St., South Bend, are the parents of twin sons, James Joseph and John Anthony, bom Feb. IL 
Three weddings among '50 alumni: 

Miss Betty Lou Slomski and John V. Deffley, Jr., April 15 in South Bend; Miss Dolores J. Lcchtanski and James C. Fritsch, April 15 in Sacred Heart Church; Miss Norma Marie Reeves and Thomas C. Rot^eox, April 15 in Sacred Heart Church. 
Engagements: 

Miss Alicia Swiderski and Elliott J. Burrell; wed­ding set for June 10; Miss Helen Louise Feltes and Cliarks W. Stanley; wedding planned for June 3; Miss Mary Catherine Rcppcn and James R. Kelly; to be wed June 10; Miss Catherine Taylor and VtaSBp R. Caotwell; Miss Patsy Jane Green and Richard L. SoUivaii. 
Other *50 engagements are Miss Phyllis Albright and Robert M. Barrett, and Miss Sue Ann Miller and Wniiam C. Zdmpfennig, II, wedding planned for Aug. 26. 
The Notre Dame Alumnus 

NOTRE DAME 
Books 

CONCERNING MARY ANN, by Leo R. Ward, C.S.C; Ave Maria Press, 261 pp. 
Less than a year ago. Herder Book Co. in St. Louis brought out Blueprint for a Catholic University by Father Leo R. Ward. In May, 1950, the Ave Maria Press at Notre Dame is publishing a new book by the same prolific and versatile author. The new book. Concerning Mary Ann, is the story of a wonderful Irish Iowa woman who only three or four times in her life of 90 years has been out of Iowa, and not often altogether has she been out of her parish. 
But there at home she has lived a won­derful life, her door never closed, and a stream of men, women and children received as friends and even as members of her own family, some of them for years. One of them, the incredible "Little Woman," comes as a complete stranger to Mary Ann and her husband and their own big crowd of chil­dren. Mary Ann never knew so much as the name of the Little Woman, let alone her credentials, but was willing to suppose she was sent by God to help with the house­work. The Little Woman came and went unannounced, exactly like a fairy, and that is what an old woman said she was. 
Mar)' .^nn is Irish, she is Iowa, she is the community and very much herself. In Con­cerning Mary Ann her story is slightly fic­tionized, so that it reads like a novel. It is half way between Father Ward's God in an Irish Kitchen and his Holding Up the Hills, and is like the second volume of the first or the first volume of the second.—R.J.D. 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES 
.\ medium-sized company near South Bend wishes to employ a sales execu­tive and an advertising and sales pro­motion executive. Applicants for cither job must have at least eight to ten years' experience in the building ma­terials field and be 30-40 years old. Salaries from $10,000 according to qualifications. Those interested should send qualifications at once in care of 
W. R. Dooley, placement director, No­tre Dame. 
LATE JUNE DEADLINE 
Because of sunmier vacation! and a heavy pre-schoolyear printing sched­ule at the Ave Maria Press, the ALUMNUS is obliged to jump copy-deadline for the July-August number to June 25. Accordingly, class and club secretaries are asked to squeeze their notes in early this time. The ALUM­NUS regrets this neceasity, but the good Brothers and jpatient printers need their vacations from the Indiana heat. 

May-June, 1950 
A tentative sketch of a. liberal and fine arte bniUii^. 
T/)e "Bear" Facts Are... 
Response to the 8th Annual Alumni Fund-Foundation Pro­gram is inspiring. 
Thus far in 1950, as against the equivalent months of 1949, 53 per cent moi*e alumni have contributed (3100 as against 2300). Total alumni gifts are 150 per cent of those at the same date in 1949 ($234,158.83 as against $93,749.43). Gifts of from $0 to $100 and from $15 to $25 are more frequent. 
And 83 per cent of the 1950 alumni donors to date either gave no more, or gave less, or gave nothing, in 1949. (Nineteen per cent increased their 1949 gifts, 20 per cent are new givers and 44 per cent gave as much as in 1949). 
Having GIVEN it's time to GET—^from our fertile garden of non-alumni friends. In the first four months of 1950, the volun­tary efforts of a few Cities Committees and individual alumni have induced gifts from 284 non-alumni friends, for a total of $41,567. 75. Last year at this same time 297 non-alumni friends contributed $95,246. Therefore, it is evident that non-alumni participation is lagging somewhat. It has been suggested, as a concrete plan by which all City Chairmen can gauge their 1950 effort, that at least one gift should be secured from a non-alum­nus friend for each alumnus. , 
Your attention is directed to the story appearing on page 3 outlining plans for the construction of the Morris Inn and the O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building, as announced recently by Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president. In ad­dition to the Inn and the Arts Building, the Fisher Residence Hall and the Science Building are also scheduled for construc­tion this year and next. 
Individual class reports for this year appear at the beginning of the individual class news section. —Herman A. Zitt, 'i8 
Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
ARIZONA—PAocmx—Thomas E. O'Mallcy, '39, 320 
W. Vii^inia, Tucjon—Ted W. Witz, '29, Box 628. 

ARKANSAS—Por/ iiii-f/i—Raymond A. Marre, ex­37, 229 >rerchanis National Bank BIdg. 
CALIFORNU—ioi .4ng.!to—Louis Berardi, '30, 1227 Smithwood Drive. A'orl/icrn—William T. Daly, '41, 3240 61sl .\ve., .Apt. 104, Oakland. San Diego—Ll. Col. Emnlelt A. McCabe, '29, 3703 LaCresla Drive, San Diego 7. 
COLORADO—/J'-'ir/rr—Thomas G. Currigan, '41, 2925 Ivy Street. 
CONNECTICUT—Conncir/iViil I'aHc)—Matthew C. Meskill, '29, 101 Greenwood St.. New Britain. Xaugatuck Valley—D. Frank Murnane, '32, Summit Road, Prospect. Southwestern—^Joesph McNatnara, '29, Pine Tree Road, P.O. Box 202, Stepney. 
DEL.AWARE—Arthur C. Baiim, '3G. 1310 Van Bur-en St., .Apt. 3-C, Wilmington. 
DISTRICT OF COLU.MBIA—ll'oj/ii'iBlon-Thomas J. Flynn, '35, 2018 37tli St., S.E. 
FLORIDA—Crca/cr .\/iami—Fred A. Jones, Jr., '47, 25 S.W. 18lh Rd., Miami. Fori LauderJale—Trci J. Stewart, '12, Port Everglades Station. A'or;/i Worirfa—John F. Lanahan, '43, P.O. Box 1498, Jacksonville. 
GEORGIA—William H. Sciiroder, Jr., '35, 162 Rumson Rd., Atlanta. 
IDAHO—Paul J. Kohout, '25, 1722 Washington St., Boise. 
ILLI.NOIS—CfJi.To; /Hi/ioii—Stephen G. Graliker. '42, 1537 West Macon, Decatur. Chicago—John W. Lacey, '38, The Forbes Lith­ograph Alfg. Co.. 700 Wriglcy Building. Eastern Illinois—^John Meyer, '42, 1314 Frank­lin, Danville. Fox KoHo—George R. Schmidt, '29, 253 Ham­ilton Ave.. Elgin. yo/:V/-/i:anitaAcc—Arthur Smith, Jr., '48, R.D. -No. 2. /Vorin—James Kelly, '43, 712 Butler St. Rock River l'o;/o--Paul J. Fr}-. '27, 101 First St. DLxon. 
INDI.\N.-\—Co.'umc/ Bij/riVl-James J. Glenn, '35, 1337 119lli St., Whiting. Eastern Indiana—William S. MacDonald, '27, Indiana Bell Telephone Co.. Muncie. Fort Wayne—EdKitt J. Wesner, '25. 4607 Fair-Held. 
Inilianapolis—Ilar\-ev Foster, '39, 327 Federal BIdg. .Michigan Ci/J^-Francis G. Fedder, '31. E. Cool-Spring Ave. St. Joseph I'o/.V)-—John G. Farabaugh, '37, 1705 McKinley Ave., South Bend. Tri-Stale (Ky., Ind. and HI.)—Robert Lainey. '28, 517 Lewis Ave., Evansville, Ind. It'abash Valley—Dc. Kenneth F. Laws, '36, 501­5 Lafayette Life BIdg., Lafayette. 
IOWA—DM .1/fiinM—Joseph E. Casey, '41, 832 Des Moines BIdg. iJuliui/m!—Robert H. Kenline, '35, 418 Bank & Ijtsurunce BIdg. Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Moline)—Jerome C. Arnold, '24, 1019 Daven­port Bank BIdg., Davenport, Iowa. 
KANS.AS—Eastern—^Judge Joseph J. Dawes, '26, 420 Arch St., Leavenworth. 
KENTUCKY—Roger J. Hunter, 336 Monohan Dr., Louisville. 
LOUISIANA—.Wai Or/<ranj—Kari A. Kashewski, '29, c/o W. R. Grace & Co., Mezzanine Suite 19, International Trade Mart. 
M.\RYLAND—ZtaWmors—Edxard F. Spori, '34, Mgr. United Fruit Co., Pier One, Pratt St. 
MASSACHUSETTS—Boj/OH—Jack Nye DufTcy, '35, Room 1024, 40 Broad St. 
.MICHIGAN—fcrrfcn Coun/j'—William H. Downey, '28. 60 N. St. Joseph .Ave., -N'iles. Illue It'ater OiV/nV/—William L. WiUon, '42, 
P.O.
 Box 295. Port Huron. C<-n/rof—Dr. Edgar J. Hermes, '16, 828 N. Lo­gan St.y Lansing. Dearborn—^Jack Courtney. '25, 401 S. Iligh'and. Detroit—^Thomas J. Moran, '35, 1329 Bucking­ham Rd., Groise Pointe 30. Grand Rapids and Western .Michigan—Edward 

R.
 Dunn, '36, 2309 Riverside Dr., N.E., Grand 


Rapids. H'a:iathaland—Vau\ Kreuz, '33, 1215 Michigan Ave., Menominee. /ron Range—Robert T. O'Callaghan, '45, 635 McLeon Ave. -Ifo/iroc-Thomas D. Griffin, '33, 205 E. Third Street. Saginaw Valley—Carl W. Doozan, '33. 723 S. Fayette Street, Saginaw. 
.\HN.\ESOTA—Tain Ci/iVj—Michael Keegan, '41, 6221 Br^-ant Ave.. S., Minneapolis 19. Dululh-Sulierior-W'm. E. Cotter, Jr., '41, 1929 
E. Superior St., Dultith. 
MISSOURI—Kan.M Ci'/j—(.Mo. and Kans.)—Rob­ert Pend;rgast. '35, 405 W. 59th St., Terrace, Kansas City, Mo. St. LoKH—Vincent J. Fehlig. '34, 7011 Lindcll. 
.MO.\TAN.\—Bernard Grainey, "43, 801 12th Ave., Helena. 
.NEBRASKA-Frank McGrath. '24, Chief, Boy:: Guides, Ba\-s Town, Neb. 
-VEIV JEltSEV—Thomas B. Hogan, '33, 27 Si. Law­rence Ave.. Maplewood. South Jersey—Valentine B. Dcale, '39, RCA Victor Div. 15-3, Camden. N. J. Crn.Tfl/—Michael J. Balog. '3t, 316 Watson Ave., Perth .Amboy. 
.NEW YORK—i'uifa.'o-Joseph A. Battaglia, '38, 280 West .-Xve. Capital District—iAndreiv M. Pinckney, *4I, 14 C'rcle Lane, ..\lbany. C.n/ro/—Daniel A. Kclty, '41, 706 Stinard St., Syracuse 4. .Mid-Hudson Valley—Francis J. SanHlippo, '47, 51 Violet Place, Rhincbeck, .N. Y. .\tohaivk Valley'—Edward Noonan, '47, 102 But­ler .Ave., Utica. Xew York Ci.'j^—James H. Shells, '35, 50 Pine Street. Xorthcrn—Rc\: Donald S. Galbgher, '24, St. Bernard's Rectory. Lyon Mountain. Rochester—Richard T. Sullivan, '32. 29 Elm-Dorf Ave. II. ^c/intr/orfj'—John T, Peters, '42, 1385 Baker .Avenue. Southern Tier—Edwin Bonham, '09, 329 Ilamil-St., Paintrd Post, N. Y. Triple Cities—Dr. J. Warden Kane, '26, 55 Riverside Dr., Binghamton. 
OHIO—.4tron—William Ahem, Jr., '39, 3120 Me­dina Road. Ciin(on—William IL Belden, '36, 305 22nd St., N.W. Cinririnol-—Robert C. Burke, '37, 3402 Cornell Place. Cleveland—John J. Elder, '30, 2545 W. Third Street. Colu.ufcuj—John J. Geddes, '32, 215 N. Eureka. Dayton—^Andrew .A. Aman, Jr., '30, 618 Ridge-dale Road. 
//omi/Jon—Judge Harry F. Walsh, '31, Muni­cipal Court. OAio Kof/cj^Joseph F. Sargus, ex.'49, 355 I9th St., Bellaire, Ohio. 5(indujfr)—Alfred .A. Schnurr, Jr., '28, S. Co­lumbus Ave. Toledo—John R. Malone, '42, 4805 Summit St. Youngstown—Clarence T. Sheehan, '40, 'The Vindicator." 
OKLAHO.MA—Ti/to-William B. Padon, '42, 9 Woodland Dr., Box 1589. Oklahoma C'/j—Haskell /\skew, '31, 624 Trades­men National Bank BIdg. 
OREGO.N—Oscar Quoidback, '48, 325 N.W. ISth Ave., Pordand. 
PEN.NSYLVANIA—£ojVrn—Leo R. Mclntyre, '23. 30(H Turner St., Allentown. Eric-Joseph C. Barber. '36. 705 Ariel BIdg. Harrlsburg—W'm. J. Moore, '26, 601 Feller Bids. .Monogahela Valley—George C. Martinet. '34, 
R.D. No. I. Cahrieroi. /'/iiVarfef/./lia—Ambrose F. Dudley, Jr. '43, 1123 N. 63rd St. /•;//iiiir»(r—John P. .Monteverdc, '33. 320 Fourth Ave. 5<-ron/oM—Michael B. Comerford, '43. 1208 Richmont St. ll'i/to-Barrc—Edirard J. Rowan. '35. 31 West North St. IVllllamsport—Frank C. Hayes. 27, 501 Be!mont Avenue. 
RHODE ISUAND and S. E. MASSACHUSETTS— Russell L. Hunt, '39, 412 Providence St., Wooii­socker, R, L 
TENNESSEE—.l/cm/i/iij-Eugene J. Podesta, '48 263 StonewaU Place. 
TEXAS—Oa.'/iTf-James L. AValsh, Jr., '30, Associ­ate Counsel, Southwestern Life BIdg. Houston—Raymond B. Keating, Jr., '35, 1438 Commerce BIdg. San .4nlnni»—Leonard M. Hess. '25. 201 Stan­ford Dr. 
UTAH—Jack W. Gallivan, '37, 1017 Kearns BIdg.. Salt Lake City. 
VIRGINIA—Dr. Charles R. Riley, '39, 3508 Semin­ary Ave., Richmond 22. 
WASHINGTO.N—ll'«<rrB—W. Jerome Kane. '38. 105D4 Valmay Ave., Seattle 77. Spokane—^Vincent P. Slatt, '43, 515 E. Ermina. 
WEST VIRGINIA—Albert II. Kessing, '40. 925 Montrose Dr., S. Charleston 3. 
WISCONSIN-Cwn i'oj—Thomas F. Hcarduu, '27, 135 Marsh St., DePcre. Fox River Valley—Rohen Bernard. '36, 953 Hig­gins Ave., Necnah. /jiCroJK-August M. Grams, '28, 217 S. Front Street. .l/7aaui«—William C. Malaney. '41. 4012 N. Farwell. South Centra!—I'rancis D. Hamilton, '30, First National Bank BIdg., Dodgeville. 
FOREIGN CLUBS liengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24, (key man) Dacca, East Bengal. Cuba—Christopher C. Fitzgerald, '94, (key man) La Metropolitana (711), Habana. //otcaii-Tlmmas W. Flynn, Jr., '35, 5317 Opilii St., Honolulu, T. H. Manila—^Anthony F. Gonzales, '25, (key man) The Insular Life Assurance Co., Ltd., Insular Life BIdg. Panama—William J. Sheridan, '38, Box 605, Ancon., Canal Zone. Puerto fiico—Paul F. McManus, '34, (key man) 
B. & M. Products Co., Bo.< 2695, San Juan. 
PRINTCO AT AVE MARIA PRESS 





