The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

^ ftappj> ileto gear 
^ 

With Its Multitude of Connotations. 
E 

€leben ^0. :f our 1933 

DITORIAL^ 
UNCERTAINTY 

This issue of the ALUMNUS bears a vague and 
rambling quality for which the Editor hesitates to assume 
the responsibilitj'—in full, at least. 

The answer may perhaps be applicable to larger 
problems than the Alumni Association. 
Uncertainty! 

It is uncertain whether this is the fourth issue of the ALUMNUS series for the current year—or whether it is the LAST ISSUE! You can appreciate the editorial quiver this creates, the problems of asking for contribu­tors, for planning announcements, articles, and so on. 
Nominating committees ought to have been named by now, but it is uncertain whether we will have an Asso­ciation next year, and the present administration hesi­tates to embarrass committees or nominees. 
Universal Notre Dame Night ought to be announced and plans promoted. But inasmuch as the co-operation of the Alumni Office during the next few months is reduced to an uncertain quality, little can be done without risking unfortunate complications. 
Class reunions and plans for Commencement should be under way with the actual appearance of the '33 on our calendars. But that event looms only as a shapeless bulk behind the red mist of the Spring budget. It is impossible to organize an intelligent jilan when June 2-3-4 may sound either reveille or taps. 
Clubs and classes ought to be stimulated and encour­aged, particularly now when they are suffering individu­ally the various ills of the day. But with the root and source of the club and class organizations itself being lacerated by the fangs of the wolf—and we have never subscribed to the Spartan policy of letting your insides be eaten out without a murmur—how can we, in turn, lend any particularly helpful hand to the outlying brethren? 
What causes the uncertainty? You, whose dues are unpaid! You're not certain you can afford it. You're not certain it's worth while. You're not certain of your job. 
As a result you don't put this five—and lots like it— into circulation. We are cramped and can't expand, in fact we have reduced drastically. Our purchasing power, possibly affecting your employer, is curtailed. He becomes uncertain about your value to his organization. And so it goes in a '.-icious circle of uncertainty, 
V 
HAPPY NEW YEAR 

Despite the above editorial, there is nothing to lose in wishing you a Happy New Year. 
We have just finished reading a little squib in which a returned visitor to London reports a meeting there of the Society for the Prevention of Premature Burial, which, at the meeting in question, adopted the slogan, "Wait for Putrefaction.' ' 
In the face of the existence of such organizations as that, it seems difficult to imagine that the Alumni Asso­ciation of the University of Notre Dame will be allowed to die. You might at least employ the policies of the above mentioned Society. And whil? the Association treasury is suffering from pernicious anemia, some of its actiNaties apparently dead, and some of the editorial remarks even returned marked "putrid" we still maintain that the vital spark is alive and that you will regret its premature extinction. 
V 

ALL SCULPTORS ARE CHISELERS 
Unfortunately, it does not follow that all chiselers 

are adept in that illustrious profession of Phideas. 
From several sources in recent weeks have come tales of Notre Dame alumni, self-confessed, enjoying all the ills the present era is heir to and looking for Notre Dame men steeped in the doctrine of bearing one another's burdens. That some of these cases are men who have attended Notre Dame is not improbable. That, many Notre Dame Tnen are in distress is platitudinous. (A recent Salvation Army survey at one of their relief camps showed as many college-trained men as high school-trained men among those aided.) 
But several of them have been definitely off-color. Names not on the books, references proving without foundation, facts proved to be fiction. 
It is inevitable, with the size of the Notre Dame alumni group, with the size of the student body and its substantial turnover of short time students, and with the wide publicity that Notre Dame has had, that there should be these weaknesses. Sometimes it is our own alumni, attitude distorted by one condition or another, who prey on the fraternity of Notre Dame men. More often, we are proud to say, the case involves an imposter who by visit or association has absorbed the names of a few Notre Dame buildings, teachers or alumni, and uses them by careful weaving in a common pattern of prevarication. 
There is little the ALUMNUS can do about it. In all parts of the country at all times of the year, even in prosperity, these cases have appeared. In a city of any size, it is safe to urge that unless the person can be personally identified by someone in school with him, his case be checked most carefully. Similarly, in less populous Notre Dame centers, the case can be checked carefully, and a.telegram to the Alumni Office can check name and years on the campus, which is much cheaper than mis­quided help. 
Fundamentals ought to apply in these cases as well as others. Unless you are overloaded with the world's goods you don't give promiscuously. Well, don't let "Notre Dame" be the open sesame to your bounty, unchallenged. There are deserving cases. Help in these is appreciated by the individual and by the University. But careless aid only breeds further imposition. 
If the alumni generally applied the same sales resist­ance to chiselers that they unfortunately apply to the meek and just appeal for the annual five-spot from this office, the Notre Dame species of chiseler, real and fancied, would soon wither and die from lack of nourishment. 
Januarij 1933 THE NOTKE DAME ALUMNUS 
CCMMENT 

On the following page, (through the courtesy of the Scholastic, which had the illustration made) the ALU.MN'US presents in this one front­ispiece, volumes of history. 
Barely more than 90 ears ago, in November, 1842, the keen eyes of young Father Edward Sorin and a group of Brothers of the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross looked upon the shores of the snow covered St. Mary's lake as the site of their future labors. And in that snowy bleakness, un­broken by spire, golden dome, or high-flown flag, they found no discourage­ment. Kather, with an inspired op­portunism, they saw the symbol of purity in the mantle of snow, and from it derived their patron and their cause—Notre Dame, and Notre Dame du Lac. 
"The Four Horsemen" was a term new to Notre Dame only in its hap­pier applicatidn to the famous foot­ball backfield of '24. The real Four Horsemen had ridden too often across the Notre Dame, sky of earlier years. War—taking needed but willingly sacrificed priests as chaplains, stud­ents and professors as warriors, in Civil and World wars; Pestilence— cholera mowing down precious mem­bers of the Order and the faculty in '54, fire three times destroying what seemed the very heart of Notre Dame; Famine—in those days of pov­erty and illness when privation com­bined with prejudice to bring cold and hunger io the little institution by the lakes; Death—which through the 90 years has cut its erratic way across the campus, taking great and humble, young and old. 
Finances have demanded almost the miraculous in administration. Four hundred dollars and a small grant of land comprised the capital of Notre Dame at its inception. It has been immune from opportunities, resulting —in the secular world—in inflation, which have given the University the dubiously- compensating immunit y from subsequent secular deflation and panics. But acquisitions of an educa­tional institution, no matter how rap-


THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAJIES E . ARMSTRONG, '25, Kditor 
The magazine Is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame. Indiana. . The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a yeia-'s subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-class matter January 1, 1923, at the post office at Notre Dame. Indiann. under the Act of March 3. 1879. All correspondence slioald be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81, Notre Dame. Indiana. 
aiEMBER OF THE A^IERICAN ALUMNI COUNQL 
aiEJIBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
of the 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JA.^IES E . AR.MSTKON'G, Secretarij-Treasurcr 
ALUMNI BOARD 

REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President CI.AKENCE MANION , '22 President TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 First Vice-President JASIES E . SANFORD, '15 Second Vice-President 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 -. Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 ' Director HUGH A. O'DONNELL, '94 Director GEORGE HIGGINS, '32 Director FRANK H. HAI-ES, '14 (ex officio) Director 
idly acquired, tend to possess more lasting values than the accumulated assets of the world outside. It is therefore not a misstatement to say that the slow financial development of Notre Dame has been an added handi­cap to the succession of presidents, not omitting the present era. Today, the lack of adequate endowment en­tails administrative duties in the in­come fields which must balance the budget—the "hotel features" and ath­letics—which in themselves are a tax on e-Kecutive genius. 
The little hog Chapel of the mis­sions, that had provided the present campus with traditions long before the advent of Father Sorin, still stands (in duplicate) on the shores of St. Mary's Lake. And next to it stands the little square Old College that fulfilled the difficult injunction of the Bishop of Vincennes that the grant of land at Notre Dame was contingent upon the functioning of a college on the site within two years (by 1844). 
About this nucleus the men on the following page, with a succession of talents and the labor and sacrifice of those under them, have gathered grounds and buildings worth, from a material standpoint, some ten million dollars. 
Far more than that, Notre Dame, by their wise guidance, has come to a place in the academic sun, it has become a spiritual force in the na­tion that is felt by Catholic and non-Catholic. Athletic success has made of this once quiet little mission of the Potawattoraies a mission of the sport lovers of the world. 
To the Eev. Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, '06, able and eleventh incumb­ent of an oiBce of illustrioos history, the ALUMNUS, one of the manifesta­tions of the cumulative efforts of his administration and those of his pre­decessors, offers a wish for a New Year filled with continuing blessings, that the patron and the cause adopted by the 'first of this great line may triumph uninterruptedly to the last. 




Notre Dame Presidents, 1842-1932 
tScv. Patrick Dillon. CS.C. 

Kcv. irilfiani Corby. CS.C. ftiT. .-liijr/iistKs Z-citioniiiVr. CS.C. 1865-60 1866-72. 1877-Sl 
1872-7-1 


Rcr. Patridc Colorin, C.S.C. 
Jirv. Thomas n'aUh, CS.C. 
1874-77 JSSI-93 

7?cr. --llirfrcia Morrisscy, C.S.C. Rev. Edward Sarin, CS.C. Itcv. John Catanaunh. CS.C. 1893-1905 
1842-65 1905-19 

Rev. James Bums, CS.C. Rev. Matthew Walsh. CS.C. 
Rev. Charles L. O'DoiinrV. CS.C. 

IOlfl-22 1022-28 
1928­


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XI. JANUARY, 1933 No. 4 
Tributes To Late Prof. McCue Are Inspirins 
Loyalty and Service of Lay Faculty Exemplified in Eulogies of Late Dean of Engineering College From Former Students: Record of Lay Faculty in Other Departments is Distinguished 
From Francisco Gaston, C.E. '02, Calle 10, Number 138, Vedado, Ha­vana, Cuba, addressed to Profs. Ackermann, Benitz and JIaurus comes a letter, that speaks eloquently for itself: 
I have read in the Notre Dame ALUJMNUS the sad news of the death of our beloved Professor Jlartin J. McCue, and I feel that I must express to you and the University my deep sympathy. 
My recollections of Prof. McCue as a teacher, his kindness and "his in­tense interest in the pupils who came to him," and I was one of them, are those that do not vanish. 
I address this letter to you as the members of the lay faculty who signed the Resolution, as printed in the N. D. ALUMNUS, and also be­cause I happen to remember the three of you quite distinctly. I see you, of course, as you were in 1902, as I do not care to make any allowance for the "short time" elapsed. 
The last time I was in Notre Dame, in October 1915, I had a long talk with Prof. McCue who showed him­self as kind and as obliging as ever. He surprised me by saying that he cherished the hope of taking a short vacation trip to Cuba, and .many a time afterwards have I thought of the possibility of having the agree­able surprise of seeing him here in Havana. 
There are several Notre Dame men in Cuba, but the one whom I see most is C. C. Fitz Gerald. I suppose you know Major Fitz Gerald, C.E. who is now one of the District Governors; he is as highly esteemed here among the Cubans, as he is in the American colony. We even had our offices to­gether, for some time, which was a kind of Notre Dame circle. We have had the thrill of hearing, across land and water, on the radio, the real Notre Dame voice, the band, cheers and hub-bub at the foot-ball games. 
I have been several times in the United States, after 1915. but always in such a hurry that we (Mrs. Gaston and myself) have never had the op­portunity of going into the great Middle West. We do not lose hopes, however, and Mrs. G. has the stand­ing promise of "doing" South Bend and vicinity. 
After so many years of varied engineering experience, mostly in the Department of Public Works, I, too, turned to teaching and, since 1925, I have been connected with the Univer­sity of Havana, the 2p0-year-old Roy­al and Pontifical University, now a national organization. I belong to the School of Engineers and Archi­tects, and I am in charge of a special course of English to engineering stu­dents. I am not, by any means, a regular "English teacher," but rather a technical translator, and always an Engineer. 
The worst part of it is that, for political reasons, the University is temporarily closed (after 200 years of existence!) and we are "enjoying" an enforced vacation. The political un­rest, in this country, greatly aggra­vates the economical depression which has reached here the limit of "gen­eral poverty." 
This is rather a long letter, but you should blame it on the ALUMNUS which certainly conveys the impres­sion that you there at Notre Dame are reallij anxious to hear from the members of the family; even if they are located beyond the national bor­ders. In this case you are hearing from one of the family who mourns the loss of one of its chief members; one of the most fruitful branches of the common tree. But, is it a loss?; or, will he continue to be an inspira­tion to his former pupils and to his pupils' pupils?" 
Through a coincidence, almost the same day a note was received from 
C. C. Fitzgerald. C.E. '94, La Metro­politana, Dpto. 204, Havana: 
"It was with great regret I saw in the November ALUMNUS, the sad news of the death of my old profes­sor, Martin J. McCue. 
"All who were in his classes and wished to study, found a teacher who aided them in every way and by pre­cept and example inculcated in the -Student a love for his work that was the basis of his success in after life. God rest his soul." 
While from Hugh C. Jlitchell, C.E. '95, Father O'Hara received the fol­lowing letter which appeared in the 
Religiotis Bulletin: 
"Though I have been many years away from Notre Dame, and during those years have not kept in touch with my teachers there, still to me Professor McCue is much more than a memory—^I have never felt that he was far away—^his presence always seemed so near and so real, a condi­tion that has not been in the least disturbed by your Bulletin telling of his death some weeks ago. To me he is still the friend and inspiration he was nearly two score years ago— commanding the respect, the affec­tion, and the admiration of his stu­dents. 
"I liked your characterization of Professor McCue—Gentleman, Schol­ar, Saint! Most of all I liked the Gentleman, and I am sure it will be his wonderful qualities of soul and mind which caused you to put the word Gentleman first after his name; it will linger longest, being most deeply graven in the memories of all who knew him. —And all who knew him counted him Friend. 
"I was a very young man when I came under Professor McCue's tute­lage. In 1892-3 I was a member of his class in Surveying; in 1893-4, of his class in Railroad Surveying; and in 1894-5, my senior year, I attended courses given by him in Mechanics of Engineering, Hydraulics, and Astron­omy. He was a wonderful teacher— a scholar who knew his field with a thoroughness of depth and breadth that will ever be unusual. He was gifted with a clarity of exposition, of demonstration, of expression, and had a control over his classes which com­pelled their attention and understand­ing. No one was ever inattentive in his classes. He controlled his pupils, not by wielding a big stick, but through sheer intellectual force and example. A saving sense of humor pervaded his surroundings. His boys instinctively felt that he loved them— that he loved all boys—and what was equally if not more important, he understood them. 
"A student at Notre Dame during a period of great teachers (not that such a time is past), I have intimate and happy memories of Professors McCue and Neill, of Professors Egan and Ewing, and of Fathers Zahm, and Burns, and Fitte, and Cavanaugh (well beloved), and O'Neill (whose very sermons rocked with, metre), and others. But of all these, I think it was in Professors McCue's and Neill's classes that human interest ran highest, from whose classes we carried more unfading memories of interesting periods. Not that there are no keen memories of other classes. Ask Judge Hudson of the time that Father Zahm was liquefying some gas (carbon-dioxide, I think it was) under pressure in a laboratory dem­onstration, and Hudson asked what pressure the apparatus would stand before coming apart. Just as Father Zahm said, 'you pay the damages and I'll see,' the tube with the gas in it went straight up through the ceiling, and as Father Zahm came back from a hurried departure—I think he was one of several who went under a table—^he asked: 'Mr. Hudson, did you read the gage? . . .' 
"Professor McCue was one of the most dynamic men I have ever known —the speed and accuracy and direct­ness -with which he could cut to the very heart of things made an espe­cially deep impression on me, particu­lar]}' in those first years at Notre Dame, when a youngster 'from the wilds of Texas' (as Bishop Foley said of Bishop Hurth at his consecration), I was both awed and static (I am still the latter). But his gentleness and understanding soon put me at ease, while his encouragement fired me to accelerating efforts. 
"Psycholopsts have recently given us a new word—^"Eidetic'—which they tell us is a gift possessed by only a limited number of children, and which is usually fading out in the early teens, and gone with adolescence. I feel that perhaps they are wTong there, for the images I call before me of Professor McCue in his classroom and on the campus have all the de­tail and clearness of eidetin images, and they come and go at will. And T will them often, for to me Professor McCue will always be more than a memory — always an understanding friend, an inspiration, and one of God's own gentlemen." 
The above tributes cannot but call attention to the place occupied in the development of Notre Dame by that loyal and devoted coterie of laymen who have shared with the Congrega­tion of Holy Cross the academic re­sponsibilities of the institution. A brief sketch of the veterans of this group seems in order. 
Col William James Hoynes, A.M., 
LL.D., professor emeritus of law. is 
the dean of the "old guard." This 
year marks the golden jubilee of his 
professorship at Notre Dame. Fol­
lowing participation in the Civil War, 
in which he saw much service and 
was wounded in action. Col Hoynes 
received an LL.B. from the U. of 
Michigan in 1872. Coming to Notre 
Dame he received an -A..M. in 1S7S 
and was given an LL.D. in ISSS for 
his distinguished service in the or­
ganization of the department of law. 
From 1SS3 Col. Hoj-nes was professor 
of law and became Dean of the Col­
lege of Law with its organization in 
1905. In 191S Col. Hoynes retired 
and has since resided at the Univer­
sity as professor emeritus of law, 
compiling the memoirs of his long 
and interesting life. 

In point of actual service the palni goes to Prof. Francis X. Ackermann, head of the department of mechanical drawing, who is teaching his forty-sixth year of mechanical drawing. Es­tablished this year in handsome new quarters in the John F. Cushing Hall of Engineering, Prof. Ackermann seems good for another forty-six years of the conscientious teaching that has marked his department. A bachelor, he has spent the years as a resident on the campus, leading a life as regular and as carefully planned as the drawings of his courses. Prof. Ackermann comes by art through hereditarj' talents which Notre Dame has been privileged to share. The very interesting murals in the present general offices, former­ly the Brownson refectory, were the work of Prof. Ackermann's imcle, himself a professor of art at Notre Dame. Similar murals, representing in both instances the famous cathe­drals of the world, found in the class­rooms that mark the former site, of the Carroll refectory, are the work of Prof. Ackermann's father. Prof. Ack­ermann himself renewed and restored these paintings after the changes from the refectory to the present uses were effected. 
Next in the illustrious comnany is Edward J. Maurus, B.S. '93. M.S. '95, head of the denartment of mathe­matics, who i"arks this year his for­tieth year of teaching. Until five years ago, when he was married and took un residence in South Bend, Prof. Maurus' tower room in Sorin was a never-failing haven for return­ing engineers. It is doubtful if anv of the lav faculty have maintained active friendships ^vith former stu­dents as has Prof. Maurus. His in­terest in the student continues when the boy goes out into the world. A sincere friendly personality, coupled with an excellent memory and a very human understanding of the prob­lems of both students and alumni make him one of the most sought after faculty members when alumni return to the campus. 
Fourth in point of service among the laymen is the genial Prof. Wil­liam Logan Benitz, M.M.E., head of the department of mechanical engi­neering, who begins his thirty-eighth year as professor of mechanical engi­neering this year. As marshal of the Senior class parades, as a member of the board of athletic control, as well as for the brilliant mind which has guided the mechanical engineering destinies of his students these many years. Prof. Benitz has been a famil­iar and friendly figure in the life of the campus. Three sons, Howard, '25, Paul, '27, and Tim, '32, have aided in keeping the family name in Notre Dame history. Prof. Benitz is also the son-in-law of the late Judge Tim­othy E. Howard, brilliant professor of law at Notre Dame, for whom How­ard Hall is named. Prof. Benitz' elo­quent vocabulary, his educated toe and his accuracy in the use of that dying Notre Dame institution, the goboon, probably won him more ad­miration from students in his classes than the really remarkable mind which interpreted for them the in­tricacies of the subject. 
Prof. Robert Lee Greene. Ph.G., head of the department of pharmacy, begins this year his thirty-second year in that department. It is only recently that the College of Science withdrew the certificate in pharmacy and many graduates of this depart­ment have been successful to a de­gree marking the work as unusually well done. Prof. Greene is a brother of the late Prof. Jerome J. Greene, who conducted on the Notre Dame campus the first successful experi­ment in wireless telegraphy in Amer­ica. Prof. Greene himself is a spec­ialist in t^e field of diet, having writ­ten a book on that subject, in which he received the interested collabora­tion of the late K. K. Eockne. Prof. Greene and his family have a home in the North Woods which attracts them, usually with guests from the faculty, every summer. 
Sixth in point of consecutive teach­ing service on the lay facultv is Prof. Knnwles Burdette Smith. B.S., E.M.. Ph.D.. head of the department of Mining Engineering. Studving and teaching in the Michigan College of Mining and Technology occupied Prof. Smith until 1902 when be went to Arizona as a consulting mining engi­
(Csntinued on Pnpe 110) 

PBOF. F. X. ACKERMANN Mechanical DrawinK; 1887­
PROF. WILLIAM L. BENITZ Mechanical EnsincerinK 1806­
PROF. KN01VLES B. SMITH Mining EnKineerinjr. 1908­
PROF. JAMES HIKES History, 1908­
PROF. FRANCIS W. KERVICK Architecture. 1909­



SERVICE, LOYALTY and LOVE 
gr^ fir^ jO (gP go jn 
Q ERVIGE is the proud slogan of commerce. It is a 
•^ reciprocal concept, based on exchange of value for value. 
T 0Y.4LTY is a higher form of attachment. It arises -'—' from a feeling of respect and admiration in the mind of a man for the person, organization or institution which he sen-es. 
T OVE is the highest bond. It arises from the heart -^ as a spontaneous emotional response to the particular appeal of a person or a cause. Frequently it exists con­trary to both reason and reciprocal justice. 
T
HE 3IEN on this page combine in marked manner Service, Loyalty and Love. Service exists in the splendid teaching they do according to the terms of their contracts. Loyalty has come from association with the history and traditions of iiotie Dame and admiration for the ideals and principles which founded and which main­tain it. Love comes from the primary devotion to Our Lady, whose patronage is a personal thing to the men of Notre Dame. This love is a real thing in these men, as it is in the priests and brothers with whom they work. It transcends ser\nce and loyalty but is supplemented by them to effect the glorious atmosphere in which thrives that intangible which we call Notre Dame spirit. 
J^ J^ J^ J^ J^ J^ 
COL. WILLIAM HOYNES Law. 1883­
PROF. EDWARD J. MAURUS Mathematics, 1893­
PROF. JOSE A. CAPARO Electrical EnRineerins 1908­
PROP. WILLIAM E. FARRELL History, 1907­PROF. ROBERT GREENE 
Pharmacy, 1902­


A n Approach to The Encyclicals on International Relations 
By JAMES FITZGERALD 
Secretary of the Society of St Vincent de Paul, Detroit 
(An address delivered at the banquet of the National Catholic Alumni Federation at Notre Dame Nov. 20.) 
If the Catholic contribution to the solution of this new condition is to be something more than the piecemeal, quick-remedies offered in handfuls by economists, politicians and business experts, then that contribution \vill come after Catholic spokesmen have studied the encyclicals of Leo and Pius in their true background: the context of scholastic philosophy. These spokesmen must get back to the root and the beginning of the business; studiously and laboriously, they must apply scholastic reasoning every step of the %vay down to the present catastrophe; fearlessly, they must accept and publish and act upon the conclusions that way arrived at. 
Scholastic philosophy holds that the final rule of human conduct (in what­ever field) is: that each one act ac­cording to human nature rightly con­sidered. 
The Physiocrat philosophy of the ISth century held that there is a na­tural and beneficent order of things, hence the final rule of human conduct (in whatever field) is: that each one act according to nature. 
Now, there is an apparent essen­tial agreement between these two phi­losophies, the one dominating the old economic system, the other increas­ingly dominating the new. 
Yet there is a radical diiTerence; and that difference is the crux of the whole business. 
That radical difference is in the contrasting concept of human nature. 
The scholastic philosophy held man to be composed of soul and body (1) with the soul, in an order essential to that nature, dominating the body; 
(2) with that soul recognizing neces­sarily, by its own proper activtiy of rationalization, accountability to the authority of an external superior; (3) with a like recognition that man is of his very nature a social being. Hence that philosophy taught that the indi­vidual was indeed free to act but that freedom was operative within the limits of graded control—the control of his reason over his passions and emotions, the control of his spiritual communion with his fellow men, the control of an external authority. And this teaching, was the teaching of his own reason squaring with common sense and with experience. 
The physiocrat philosophy recog­nized no such essential order in hu­man nature, no necessary control of the soul over the body, no social con­trol, no divine control. 
Setting out from materialistic no­tions, that philosophy held that social and moral phenomena are to be re­garded in no TOse different from phy­sical phenomena—they are all. social, moral and physical, natural phenom­ena and they are subject only to me­chanical laws of nature. 
Hence, they taught that the indi­vidual is to act unrestrainedly in ac­cordance with the dictates of his own economic self-interest. And economic acti\'ity is subordinated only to the laws of a mechanical causation. 
The contrast in those root ideas be­comes now plainer. The one, the Scholastic will inform an economic system that is social! historical; and planned. The other, the Physiocrat will inform an economy that is un­social; that is unhistorical and that is natural. Out of it has come a whole progeny of economic theories that are all too familiar to us — even if we never knew their parentage before— all those theories based on rugged in­dividualism on the one hand and on the other, those theories of blind eco­nomic forces. -A.nd every failure, of the economic system today can be traced back to and classified accord­ing to one or other of those theories. 
Whatever may be the difficulty of apprehending the philosophical differ­ence in those two systems, the differ­ence becomes increasingly clear as we follow the progress of the physio­crat idea in the field of practical eco­nomics. There it appears in its very beginning in France as the laissez faire policy; later in England as the new liberalism; still later in our day in America as the new individualism. 
Those failures are not to be im­puted to the system of capitalism so-called; if we follow that false scent we arrive at chaos in theory and in practice socialism. Both Leo and Pius tell us "that the system is not to be condemned." 
Capitalism is a system which might be roughly defined in pure economics as a system in which some individuals save a part of their wealth, out of which surplus they supply raw mate­rial and tools and advance wages in the production of increased wealth. 
Operating in a society informed by scholastic philosophy there is no rea­son to assume it would not work sat­isfactorily. 
But that is not capitalism as we know it. Capitalism was kidnapped in its very infancy by the already adult oligarchy of wealth in England who had already by cunning from the King and by force from the Church secured a tremendous concentration of wealth in their few hands. That prior concentration of wealth, enabled that few to seize in the beginning control of the new inventions. They, as Chesterton says, taught capitalism its tricks and that teaching was based on the physiocrat philosophy of "everj- man for himself." 
The Industrial Revolution has been defined as the substitution of free competition for control in industry. That is one of those definitions that by virtue of some element of truth is more wrong than if it were pure nonsense. The Industrial Revolution did indeed see industry freed from the "fetters" of the guilds (so-called by those who don't read history) but it saw industry handed over part, parcel and entire to the new rich eco­nomic dictators. The control from which it was freed was a scholastic control—the control of free associa­tbins of the workers themselves and religious control of individual con­duct. The control to which it ivas committed was into the hands of a comparatively few "do-as-you-please" gentlemen who recognized no control except those blind economic forces which could be made an excuse for any mistake of business judgment or excess of greed on their part. 
Not the system is to be blamed; but human error. It was human error that twisted capitalism into the sys­tem we know: a system which oper­ates from a profit motive under a con­dition of unrestrained competition. A system, in which in practice, the measure of success is the amount of economic control which the individual or small group can secure. 
In that system, working under that philosophy one of two thing is logi­cally inevitable — either profits tend to disappear or wages. In either case, the end is chaos. 
The later classical economists pointed out this tendency of profits to disappear under free competition. 

As the competition in fact grew keen­er, it became the more imperative to save profits at the expense of wages by cutting costs of production. When that tendency was checked by the in­sistence upon a minimum wage, still under the pressure of the profit urge, profits were sought to be saved by the elimination of certain costs by mergers, larger scale production and larger scale buying. Finally profits were sought to be saved by the elimi­nation of labor itself through re­placement by machines. This techno­logical displacement went a long way before its fatal conclusion was appre­hended. It took the crash to make it apparent; namely, the drying up of the market. You could cut cost of production thereby protecting profits by replacing labor almost wholly by machinery (at the same time main­taining the wage rate for the remain­ing workers and thus escaping the strictures of those insisting on a minimum wage) but in doing that you eliminated buying power. Dimly our great leaders of this individualistic system are beginning to see what even the jobless man in the street can tell them, that if you haven't got "the price" you are economically stale­mate. 
It was all very logical. It was not the doom of blind economic forces; it was not the inexorable operation of the law of supply and demand or the law of marginal value. It was not that man was caught in a fateful lockstep going down to economic de­struction. It was that men had per­sisted in error on fundamental ideas, had made mistakes in judgment with no external insurance against the consequences of such mistakes; it was that he had let go into ruin all the organic institutions of human society which were his individual safeguards, he had put his hand into the warm hand of greed and greed had run away with him. 
Pius says: "The highly developed social life which once flourished in a variety of prosperous institutions or­ganically linked with each other has been damaged and all but ruined, leaving thus virtually only individuals and the State." And again: "Free competition is dead; economic dicta­torship has taken its place." 
Let me give you but three particu­lar illustrations out of hundreds. In the old system, the rate of interest was controlled by outside authority and the odium of usury still clung to it in the new. To offer escape from that odium and yet to insure an un­limited gain in industry, a new con­cept was obligingly introduced into economics—namely that of profits as distinct from interest. To these prof­its no odium attached and there was no maximum limit under any sanction set upon them. 
The second — as the concentration of control in the hands of the few went farther and farther, the liabil­ity to human error and human mis­calculation was in no wise decreased but the consequences of any such error were multiplied a hundred fold in their repercussions throughout so­ciety. When Hery Ford was making 10 cars a day, a technical error would be a little felt in the community but when he was geared up to a thousand a day, the same engineering error might mean months of unemployment for thousands of men. 
The third has to do with the right of private property upon which the ultimate solution is based. 
Under the old order there was in­deed private property and there was a considerable concentration (but to no such extent as today) of that prop­erty in the hands of a comparatively few individuals. But there was this radical difference. The great parcels of land were held either (1) under a system of tenure conditioned on serv­ice to an overlord clear up to the King and the person who so held was not at all a private person in the modem sense. He was a quasi-public personage, he was the governor of his tenants, he was the dispenser of justice, he was the leader in arms, he was the almoner of charity and in the realm of personal conduct he was sub­ject to the accepted authority of a great separate institution the Church. Or (2) they were held by religious corporations, the individual members of which were by vow constrained from owning anything. Personal property was conditioned in its use by guild regulation and by religious sanction. 
Economic historians are accustomed to speak of the decline of that medie­val system as if it were from some inherent weakness or as a phase of an ever onward evolution. That sys­tem broke down from two very enor­mous and external causes. One was the Black Death which ruined the man power of Europe when man pow­er was still the chief power available for production. The other was the grab of wealth by a few barons and merchants under the new freedom of physiocrat ideas. 
Against the background of Scho­lastic philosophy the directions in the Encyclicals to students seeking sound solutions to the economic problem are as clear and definite as sign posts. 
There must be a reform of the so­cial order and there must be a cor­rection of morals. 
The ultimate solution is based on the right of private property. There must be a correction of morals with regard to that right—namely that in its ownership it is absolute but in its use it is conditioned by the general welfare and the door to its honest earned acquisition shall not be shut in the face of any man. Every effort must be made that a just share only of the fruits of production be per­mitted to accumulate in the hands of anyone or any group. There must be a limit set upon profits. 
There must be a reform of the social order to the end that that external control which is necessary in order to preserve men from error and from mutual injustice may be re­stored. That reform must come from the restoration of the organic form of society through re-establishment of free occupational associations in a graded hierarchical order. 
Coming to the study of the great Encyclicals with the scholastic mind, the student will find in them hope out of despair and light out of darkness. We are not actors in some new Greek tragedy where we battle foredoomed against a new Fate in the form of blind economic forces. We are trav­ellers on a real, if wrong road in a real world. We have taken that wrong road not of compulsion but be­cause of our own errors. In the san­ity of that Scholastic Philosophy which squares with experience and satisfies common sense, we shall find our way into the clear. 
"Football Review" Excellent 
The annual Football Review of the University, edited this year for the second time by Joseph Petritz, '32, continues to give to football the fans the almost unbelievably comprehen­sive news of Notre Dame football in all its ramifications and written by the press, athletic and radio constel­lation of the country. Besides the campus talent, from President to Prezebel, there are articles by the sports writers, headed by Grantland Rice, Lawrence Perry, Frank Wal­lace, Jimmy Corcoran, Mark Kelly, Arch Ward, Warren Brown, et al, by the athletes—statements of opposing coaches and captains—and the radio talent, led by Ted Husing and Pat Flanagan. Illustrations give the Re­vieic a tabloid trend that will give to any alumnus or his son Junior an unsurpassed collection of the Notre Dame contribution to the year's hall of fame. 
Inasmuch as Joe Petritz, '32.. edi­tor, turns in the ALUMNUS' athletic copy each month with no pay other than the privilege of griping freely to the Editor, you will not take it amiss that it is here recorded gratis that the Revieiv can be had from Editor Petritz upon request, accompanied by some recognized medium of exchange, value one dollar. 



Alumnus Contributes Stimulating Viewpoint on Vital Problem 
Harold Haynes, '23, Outlines Suggestions (or Definitz Action on Part of University and Alumni Association to Aid Economic Condition of Graduates 
The ALUMNUS reprints herewith a letter from Harold Haynes, '23, Kansas City, Mo., addressed to the Very Kev. James A. Bums, C.S.C., Provincial of the Congregation of Holy Gross, former president of the University. 
"In going through my copy of the ALUMNUS, 1 did not fail to notice the "Note to All the Sad Youn^ Men." Being one of the "Sad Young Men" it seems that either I have lost my sense of humor or that I accepted this ad\'ice in the wrong spirit. Which­ever may be the case, I do not regard that single article and the spiritual advice as constituting a highly con­structive attempt to assist the thou­sands of young men who are sadly in need of work. 
"In the past ten years personal experiences and observations have caused me to conclude that positions, not to speak of the better opportuni­ties, go to those: (1) who possess money, (2) who are backed by influ­ence, or (3) who have already evi­denced extraordinary powers. There is nothing new or unnatural about this condition. In the future, I believe it will be even more difficult for the young man possessing none of these qualifications than it has been during the past ten years. In a world in which there is an excess of human beings, due to methods of production becoming increasingly excluding of the human factor with each new year, competition among classes of workers is bound to increase. Hence, I con­sider it imperative that all universi­ties realize what conditions are and may be soon and use their facilities to assist their men. 
"We know that Russia had to de­velop ways of using the thousands of young men roaming its enormous ter­ritory following the war. As the at­tached clipping e\'idenees, eminent men in this country are aware of a similar problem growing daily here. During my journey round the world, last year, I witnessed effects of the economic debacle upon young men in the numerous countries visited. 
"In Germany I saw young people congregated six and seven deep on the sidewalks before cafes, placidly enjoying the music, warmth and poorly patronized gayety within. Alive and eager to work and to enjoy life in a normal fashion, they must gain what little satisfaction possible from being spectators instead of par­ticipants. This is but one example. Would you solve their problems by ad\'ising those young men of Munich to take postgraduate work at Heidel­burg? Isn't similar ad\'ice precisely what you are doing for your own men, late graduates and seasoned partici­pants in business? Isn't your notice the only definite recommendation you have made to the jobless who attended Notre Dame? Granting that all could afford to continue with schooling an­other couple years, the problem of do­ing something with them would remain to be solved. 
"My personal attitude is, to expect neither interest nor assistance from anyone; merely to hope that some day through some of my efforts or through a stroke of happy circum­stances, I shall become again an in­dependent and useful member of soc­iety. Yet, as a university graduate, I believe that if the universities actu­ally are concerned over the plight of their men, they can do much more than treat it as a regrettable joke or as a theoretical problem. 
"When I was on the Continent, I learned to admire Mussolini and his system of getting things done. He has the power, is not afraid to analyze conditions, study the findings, evolve specific requirements and actually use his power to meet the needs. It ap­pears to me that the closely held pow­er of Catholic institutions gives them exceptional opportunities to take def­inite action to meet emergencies. Cer­tainly, one exists now; the cumulative results of worldwide preference for conduct covered by the seven deadly sins. Neither nations nor institutions can, indi\'idually, divert or pacify such powerful currents; yet, they can do much for their own—as Italy so well exemplifies. So, it is my belief that Notre Dame can do much at this time. Specifically, my suggestions are as follows: 
"(1) Ascertain with reasonable accuracy the degree of unemployment among university men so as to be cognizant of the needs of the various "age" groups and "professional" groups. 
"(2) Call a forum of the thinkers at Notre Dame, giving them complete data pertaining to conditions both general and specific, as affecting those educated in their colleges. Let each person study and make definite recommendations for action by Notre Dame to create better opportunities for university men; in general and with specific training. 
"I would organize the central group of limited number, yet permit all fac­ulty members to sit in on the delib­erations an d mak e suggestions through their representative on the central committee. It is my belief there exists no dearth of ideas but that allowing all faculty members to speak freely would waste much time. 
"(3) Having cleared all the ideas presented, I would expect the central committee to formulate a course of action using the facilities Notre Dame possesses. 
"There is nothing novel about the course suggested, nor is there any­thing unusual ajjout the methods I can en\isage the committee recom­mending. It is in the high character of treatment of the facts and the ag­gressiveness of presentation, that merit might be found. Your special­ists should be able to accomplish much good in treating one of the causes aggravating conditions of un­employment of young men. 
"Findings. Married women in in­dustry. Positions for which young men come into direct competition with young women. 
"Steps to be taken. (1) Prepara­tory article in the ALUMNUS calling attention to the conditions affecting young men desiring to begin their life's work. 
"(2) Foliowup articles by heads of departments stating conditions there­in and requesting cooperation and consideration of alumni established in such fields. 
"(3) Eeprints of such articles sent to men holding positions of respons­ibility requesting their consideration of the subject and cooperation to ob­tain greater use of university men. 
"(4) Eeprints with personal letters of transmittal to executives of large enterprises calling their attention to benefits affecting their businesses due to greater employment of university men. (Facts would be easy to find to present manufacturers of men's cloth­ing. It would be more difficult in the case of, say, automobile manufactur­ers; yet, I would say that figures could be found supporting the conten­tion that young men purchase motor cars, as a commodity high in their list of necessities, in great numbers). 

"(5) Faculty members to use every opportunity on their speaking tours to point out the evils resulting from dis­placement of young men and the effi­cacious results realizable from a more universal preference for them in posi­tions. Kadio to be used when feasible. 
"I do not anticipate miracles from any such efforts. Yet, I do believe that your economists, statisticians, accountants, advertising men, etc., can outline a campaign, based on findings and soundly adjudicated interpreta­tions thereof, that would create bene­fits for university men. Such a cam­paign would show that Notre Dame is alive to the deplorable conditions of our day and is actively doing all it can for those it is equipped to assist and for those in whom it is greatly interested. It would demonstrate that Notre Dame is not wasting its thoughts and time blaming others for the depression; as shipping blames tariffs, bankers—foreign debts, paci­fists — armaments. Least of all, it would strengthen the depleted morale of a class needing assistance. 
"Please do not misunderstand me: I have no criticism to make of either the sermon of Rev. Husslein, S. J., or the article by Dr. A. G. Ruthven of Michigan. Both have their places. It is helpful that professors should evolve learned discourses for the guid­ance of governments and that priests and teachers should concern them­selves with conditions affecting their work. But, you will notice that both commentaries say "We must" but do not make specific recommendations for "Doing." For those in power to know the status of affairs and yet not to take action designed to ameliorate conditions, is an abuse of power. I would like to see Notre Dame act; in no half-hearted fashion but with vision, aggressively, using all the tal­ents and knowledge at her disposal. 
"Is it her business to engage active­ly in championing this cause? I be­lieve so. I hold no sympathy for the policy of "laissez faire" as applicable to youth. You too, I do not doubt, agree that it is entirely in keeping with the high ideals of service Notre Dame professes, that she should es­pouse spiritedly a cause that touches poignantly the development of her men, spiritually as well as materially. Too high a degree of prosperity may not be conducive to spiritual prog­ress; however, I realize how failure, lack of understanding and depression of mind can cause even greater spir­itual devastation. What should be sought is a state of material prosper­ity having such balance that the ex­tremely desirable correlatives of nor­mal living would be possible for a greater number of young men. " 
Several words of explanation may be added to the above letter which is reprinted in full because it does ex­press opinions that must be shared by many alumni, and it evinces an interest which deser\'es attention. 
First, a school does not owe eco­nomic success to its graduates. It does owe them mental equipment which, in the normal course of events, enables them not only to succeed but to succeed considerably above the ma­terial level of non-college competitors. But, if the schools of this country have equipped the graduates so well that in their genius they have gone out and built a Frankenstein, the schools should not be held responsible. Catholic schools, since there have been Catholic schools, have preached the necessity of religious training as well as secular. The ignoring of these principles, resulting in today's chaos, is not new. The Church has come more than half way in meeting pres­ent conditions — the world must re­spond before there can be an effective cure. The Encyclicals of Leo XIII and Pius XI do all that the Church is in a position to do. Shorn of tem­poral power the Pope cannot put his principles in practice in the automo­bile industry, in the steel industry, in the textile industry. These industries must see the light and act of their o\m volition. 
Second in suggested explanations, the Alumni Association might be ex­pected to offer practical aid. During the presidency of Daniel J. O'Con­nor, '05, from June 192G to June 1927, an Employment Service for Alumni was studied carefully, and a definite plan evolved for its working out with­in the limited facilities of the Associ­ation. The response of alumni to the plan, the response of alumni employ­ers was so small as to discourage the necessary expenditure for its continu­ance, and as the need has since grown, resources of the Association have been reduced to the elimination of the activity except in the casual instances that have been continual in the history of the Alumni Office. 
A note from one of the professors of the University, in answer to a pe­rusal of Mr. Haynes' interesting let­ter, expresses probably the conclusion that we are forced to draw at this time: 
"In reply to your note enclosing Mr. Haynes' letter to the Provincial I think that we would both be wasting our time to hold a serious conference about the contents of the letter. It seems to me that the plan suggested calls for a solution of the depression, to be worked out and announced at Notre Dame. Now that is rather a large order. College men everywhere are affected by a condition which is by no means peculiar to Notre Dame graduates. 
"Mr. Haynes is a victim of a con­dition that is general, and I don't see how Notre Dame can be expected to find the key to prosperity when all of our other university experts have failed, even when aided by fat endow­ments for such research. The fact that "the seven deadly sins" are involved in the situation is riot alto­gether news, so that a "discovery" of this fact and its announcement to the world from Notre Dame would not start U. S. Steel upwards right away. I agree, some one ought to "do some­thing," but a meeting of professors, surveys, etc., at Notre Dame or else­where can hardly be expected to do what Mr. Haynes and 14 million other unemployed Americans wish. 
"With the technocrats on the front page maybe the College of Engineer­ing can iMJint the way." 

Walker to be at N. D. 

Frank C. Walker, '09, treasurer of the Democratic National Committee, will accompany James A. Farley, chairman of the committee, to Notre 
Dame this month for the Annual Civic Testimonial Football Banquet, to be held Jan. 16, when Mr. Farley will be the principal speaker. Eddie Dowling, stage star, whose son, John Edward, is a student at Notre Dame, will probably be in the party. 
Religious Page John F. O'Hara, C.S.C. 
Prefect of Religion 



The Texas Senate Speaks Its Mind 
No more striking confirmation of the principles of Catholic education has come to our attention in recent years than the following resolution which the Texas State Senate adopted without a dissenting vote in the early pai-t of December: 
WHEREAS, the Legislature of the State of Texas has been called in extraordinary session by the Governor for consideration of actions necessary to the conservation of the resources of the State of Texas; and 
WHEREAS, the most important of all concerns, even above material values, is the life of the people itself; and WHEREAS, the unprecedented wave of crime sweeping over America, crowding our jails and penitentiaries and increasing the prison population of our State of Texas to more than five thousand prisoners, fifty per cent of them under 25 years of age, which is an alarming degree of delinquency, and the increase of divorces, in our state, to one-tenth of the total national number of divorces, which, together, are signs of the disintegration of family life; and 
WHEREAS, in the opinion of sociologists, this alarming condition is due to the emphasis w^hich in recent years has been placed upon material values and the small concern paid to spiritual values in home and society; and WHEREAS, the multiplicity of bills offered in other legis­latures is proof of the concern felt, as well as the diffi­culty of enacting into laws provisions for producing the ends sought; and 
WHEREAS, Washington stated in his farewell address, "No nation can exist without religion," for the strength and efficacy of any republic, a government by the people, depends upon the best development of those people, and which experience—^the history of our nation—^has demon­strated that the strength of our republic has been in the character of its citizens according to the moral character and intelligence of its people; and 
WHEREAS, it uniformly is conceded that the remedy for prevailing conditions must be enacted through the in­culcation of morality, spirituality and conscience in the young by parents, pastors and teachers; and 
WHEREAS, statesmanship must concern itself for the perpetuation of the. state by building a future citizenship in the strength of morality; 
THEREFORE, be it resolved by the Senate, the House of Representatives concurring, that the people of the state of Texas be enjoined to address themselves to renewed effort to rebuild the idea and ideals of the family, to over­come the tendency of the present juvenile delinquency so prevalent and militating against the future security of the state, restoring the balance between the spiritual and the material by the precept and example of parents, that their children may be reared in inculcation of the prin­ciples of fundamental righteousness; 
That parents be adjured to exert every effort to restore the old-time influence of the home for the development of conscieiice a7id viorality, that family tvorship be restored, and that in self-sacrificing love the little ones be trained in the virtues of tmthfulness, honesty and respect for the rights of others; 
That the churches and Sabbath schools be urged and con­strained to intensify their spiritual efforts to extend it to every child within their respective spheres of influence and responsibility; 
That the schools promptly reform their viethods so that the rudimentary studies, as tvell as the sciences, be taught ojily as subordinate to righteousness, that the emphas'^ be placed upon morality, good conscience, respect for par­ents, reverence for age and experience, and the subordina­tion to authority, and that all learning is but the hand­maiden of eternal goodness: 
That is the suggestion of the Legislature of the State of Texas that only upon the lines herein suggested for the reintrenching of the ideals of family life can the true balances be restored, social confusion be corrected, the appalling crime wave checked, and the future of the state be assured by the conservation of the citizenship repre­sented in our youth, and civilization itself be preserved. 
AVill it be possible for the Texas Legislature to carry this spirit over into its legislation? Our governmental "neutrality" in matters religious has given atheism a free hand in forming our youth in public institutions of learning, but there are precedents set by other govern­ments which might well be made a matter of study by legislators concerned with the moral welfare of the people they represent. 
January 19S3 THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
PROMINENT ARTISTS DIRECT NOTRE DAME GALLERIES 
Appointment of Dr. Maurice Goldblatt Latest Step. Hisioiy of Collection; 
Dom Gregory Gerrer's Comments on Galleries 



"^^^--SvC ^ 

& ^ \J 
3SK 
...3^:-*^ 

The "Deposition" of Fra. Bartolomeo, in the University 
The Reverend Charles L. O'Don­nell, C.S.C, president of the Univer­sity, announced Dec. 6 that Dr. Mau­rice Goldblatt, prominent art author­ity of Chicago, has been appointed director of the Wightman Memorial art galleries at Notre Dame. 
Dr. Goldblatt has been associated with various recovery projects in the field of painting for many years. At one time he was commissioned by Ed­ouard Herriot, director of the Na­tional Art Galleries of France, to search for works of Jean Parreal which had apparently been lost. Dr. Goldblatt succeeded in finding six of the missing originals. 
Previous to that time he had un­covered approximately 50 paintings by Andreas Salaino that had been lost for years. More recently he has been working in Chicago, his home city. He has found nearly 150 old masters there in nrivate collections and in private homes. 
Doctor Goldblatt is recognized es­pecially as an authority on Leonardo da Vinci, ha\'ing devoted years of study and research to da Vinci's paintings. 
In addition to his accomplishments as an art critic, Doctor Goldblatt is alos a talented musician, having played first violin with the Chicago Symphony orchestra. He has done considerable research work in the field of violin manufacturing. His doctor's degree was taken in music and in fine arts. 
"From the early days of Notre Dame, priests and professors brought to the University various works of art until there had been acQuired a collection of 25 canvases by notable painters, fourteen original drawings and three pieces of bronze. These works were the nucleus of the pres­ent collection. 
"In 1917 the Eev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C, D.D., then president of the University, obtained from Monseign­eur Marois, vicar general of Quebec, Canada, 136 paintings which he bought in Rome from the noble Braschi family, kinsmen of Pope Pius VI. Some of these pictures be­longed at one time to Cardinal Fesch, an uncle of Napoleon I., others to the Capuchin monks of Benevento, and the rest to the Seiarra-Colonna family. Seventy-four of these paint­ings were selected to adorn the walls of the galleries. 
"To enlarge the work and to make the collection representative of the best in Christian art, Mr. Charles A. Wightman, of Evanston, Illinois, a collector and a lover of the beautiful in art, donated in memory of his late wife, Cecilia, an addition of 108 masterpieces as a memorial of a life­long devotion to her beloved Church. This addition made a total of 225 works of art which fill more than five large rooms and constitute what is called the Wightman Memorial Gallery." 
Galleries. 
"In the circulation room, center of the Notre Dame library, there hangs a new oil painting of the Bev. John Cavanaugh, C.S.C. The painting is the work of the Rev. Gregory Gerrer, O.S.B., who is an artist of distinction and who for the last 14 years has carried on the fine art traditions of Notre Dame. 

"It is a coincidence that this white-haired priest, who spends two months of every year at Notre Dame, torch­ing up the pictures and arranging the gallery, should bear as his given name Gregory, the same family name as the great Italian painter, Gregori, whom the university brought over to this countiy to decorate the main building and Sacred Heart church many years ago. 
"Father Gregory is a part of Notre Dame. He has been coming here since 1918 to take care of the pictures. 
"He talked of the art gallery at Notre Dame. 'It is particularly valu­able,' he said, "because it has repre­sentations of nearly every school of art. 
"Father Gregory cleaned his brush­es. "I do not think modem art will last as an art form," he said. "It's just a fad. I like the Venetian school best. But I'm interested in all art, and I like nearly all the schools." 
"Father Gregory is located at St. Charles' college, Shawnee, Okla. But next year will see him back again at Notre Dame, taking care of the paint­ings. 
January 19SS


TRIBUTES TO PROFESSOR M'CUE INSPIRING 
(Continued from Pasc 102) 
District Attorney King 

Francis C. King, LL.B., '19, who has been practicing law in East Mo­line, 111., for the past ten years, was elected district attorney for Rock Island County in the recent Demo-
PROS. FRANCIS KING, '19 

cratic landslide, ousting by his vic­tory the Republican incumbent with a thirteen year record. Frank came to Notre Dame from St. Bede's college, Peru, 111. He was here two years and then in the army for 1-5 months. Returning, he finished his law course and went to France as a member of the Allied Track team in the javelin throw. Frank is married and has one daughter. He has been an active member of the Notre Dame club of the Tri-Cities. 

Bob McAuIifFe Injured 

Robert McAuliiTe, '17, advertising manager of the Ave Maria and assist­tant director of student welfare of the University, suffered a broken ankle on Jan. 2, which has him con­fined to St. Joseph's hospital. South Bend. Bob's car was stolen the pre­\-ious week but recovered several days later. 

New Year, New Ronan 

When Club presidents can't get members, by the usual methods, it is inspiring to see them go right out and raise them. President Jim Ronan of the N. D. club of Chicago flashes the arrival of a new son on Jan. 4. 
neer and geologist, remaining there until 1908 when he came to Notre Dame. Mr. Smith and his family en­joyed a long pilgrimage by covered 
•wagon while in Arizona so that they might actually experience the lot of-the earlier pioneers, and incidentally afford Mr. Smith opportunity for studies in his field not offered by more modem transportation. Prof. Smith is an active and able member of the state conservation conmaittee of Indiana, a post which he has oc­cupied since 1929. 
Professor James F. Hines, history, ends in June his twenty-fifth year on the faculty of the University. Prof, nines is a graduate of the Indiana State Normal School and was super­intendent of schools at Akron and Eoann, Indiana, before coming to Notre Dame, where he added a Ph.B. in 1910. Prof. Hines is one of the old school of professors who seem to 
•really enjoy the teaching they do. Anyone who has had the privilege of attending his history classes remem­bers, especially in retrospect when so many of the values of education come to us, the wealth of outside reading and research represented by the com­ments Prof. Hines always added to the text in use. His knowledge of Shakespeare is scholarly. It is some­times a question for debate whether his Shakespearean lore enriches his history or vice versa. In either case, the student profits lastingly. 
Prof. Francis Wynn Kervick, head of the department of architecture, came to Notre Dame directly after receiving his B.S. in Arch, from the 
U. of Pennsylvania, and begins his twenty-fifth year of teaching this year. \Vhile these troublous times are hard on all architects, it does not detract from the fact that Notre Dame graduates in this field have struck an uncommonly high average in the field. Prof. Ken-ick's own work is seen in three residence halls, Morrissey, Howard and Lyons, done by him in collaboration with Prof. Vincent Fagan, '20, and in the Dining Halls, where Profs. Kervick and Fagan were associated with Cram and Fer­guson. Prof. Kervick's own and lat­est architectural contribution to the Notre Dame campus is the John F. Gushing Hall of Engineering. 
. Two other' lay professors deser\-e to be included in this list of those who have served Notre Dame for twenty-five years or more. 
Prof. William Eugene Farrell, de­partment of history, taught at Notre Dame between 1907 and 1911. Re­turning to New York State, he was admitted to the bar and became dis­trict attorney for Herkimer County, the scene of the case made famous recently by "The American Tragedy." The prosecutor in that famous case was on the bench while Prof. Farrell was in office. In 1916 Prof. Farrell returned to the Notre Dame faculty. He is teaching history at the present time, but in his earliest years at Notre Dame he taught classes in Greek, English and public speaking. Prof. Farrell is a popular lecturer and is active in St. Joseph's parish, heading the Holy Name Society there this year. 
The eight degrees which Prof. Jose Angel Caparo holds are not merely an alphabetical accumulation. They represent one of the keenest minds in the field of electrical engineering, a genius utilized in a consulting capac­ity by some of the great power or­ganizations of the country. Prof. Caparo, head of the department of electrical engineering, received his 
C.E. from Notre Dame in 1908, re­maining here as a graduate instructor and receiving his E.E. and M.C.E. in 1909. Returning to his native South America for two years he received the Sc.D. from the Universidad de San Antonio in 1910. From 1913 to 1917 he was professor of physics at Notre Dame, where, in the meantime, he had received his M.S. in 1912, his M.E. and Ph.D. in 1913. When the war broke out Prof. Caparo went to Car­negie Institute of Technology as in­structor in radio mechanics and as­sistant in electrical engineering. He returned to Notre Dame the following year, 1918, and has been here since. His final degree, to date, was an M„A. from the tj. of Chicago in 1919. 
These are not the comets that burst from headlines of the daily press up­on the public of a brief period to van­ish in an unsolved obscurity. These are the planets, moving in fixed bril­liance so that the Notre Dame world has been, is, and will continue to be, the excellent thing that all who know identify it to be. The list goes on through shorter periods of service. Space draws the line when the Silver Jubilee is reached. 
There are men more quiet, more obscure, in the nature of their reli­gious vows, equally brilliant in mind, equally attractive in personality, equally loved by the men of Notre Dame, who have walked shoulder to shoulder through these years with these laymen. They have carried the added responsibility of administra­tion. Some of them are listed on the page of the Presidents. Many are not. They form a chapter which can, and will, be separate. 



Reverend Charles C. Miltner President Catholic Philosophers 
Dean of Notre Dame College of Arts and Letteis Elected by A. C. P. S. at Detroit Convention, December 29/ Professors Enjoy "Postman's Holiday" With Various Academic Conventions 
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C, 
Ph.B., 'll; Ph.D. (Gregorian Uni­
versity, Rome, 1915) S.T.D., (Laval 
University, Quebec, 1917); dean of 
the College of Arts and Letters, pro­
fessor and head of the department of 
philosophy, was elected president of 
the American Catholic Philosophical 
Society at its annual meeting in De­
troit, Dec. 29. Father Miltner served 
last year as vice-president of the or­
ganization. 
Author of several books in the 
field of philosophy, a popular speaker. 
Father Miltner is well qualified for 
the high position he holds. 
Father Miltner was born April 6, 1886, in Iosco, Mich. He attended the schools of Da\ter and Lake City, Mich., before coming to the Notre Dame preparatory school in 1902. His student career was filled with the ac­tivities which, in numerous instances such as his., belie the incompatibility between studies and extra-curricular work. He was Breen Medallist in 1911; he was editor of the Scholastic and the Annals in '09, '10 and '11; he sang in the Gregorian choir; he played first cornet in the University orchestra and band—a talent which has not been allowed to die if a music stand in his room is significant. 
Alumnus Made Monsignor 
The Rev. St, John O'Sullivan came from Kentucky to this campus in the year 1898 and was one of the most popular and brilliant men of his time. The need of a gentle climate sent him to California on his priestly work. He soon became a distingushed figure among the clergy of the diocese of Los Angeles. After a time he was appointed pastor of the celebrated old Spanish mission, San Juan Cap­istrano, south of Los Angeles. He at once began the work of restoring the ancient mission with such success that he attracted the attention of the whole state. The best book writ­ten on the old Mission is from his pen. Lovers of these beautiful old Mexica n churches and convents throughout the state claim Father O'Sullivan as the most successful worker in the field of restoration. The Holy Father has just named this distinguished padre a Domestic Pre­late Etnd his investment with the pur­ple is taking place as we go to press. His address is Right Rev. Monsignor St. John O'Sullivan, San Juan Capis­trano Mission, California. 
He was labeled by his classmates as the deepest thinker in the Class. Three feet of snow is reported to have fallen in Michigan the August following the birth of Father Miltner, and this omen has been used to fore­cast unusual things for him. The difficulty is, however, that Father 

SHOPS SHIFTED 
The campus barber shop, under the guidance of William Roach, genial Bill the Barber, has been moved to the basement of Badin Hall, where all the luxuries of the tonsorial palaces are installed, including a shoe-shine stand. Adjacent to him is the cam­pus clothing store, conducted by Leon Livingston. 
The campus Western Union office has been moved from Washington 
Having its Face Lifted 
Miltner has such qualities that these honors, which are unusual and highly complimentary, do not seem unusual for him. 
The excellence of the College of -•Vrts and Letters, the brilliance of its faculty and the enthusiasm and co­operation of the individuals, is trib­ute to the executive ability of the Dean and augurs well for the admin­istration of the philosophical destin­ies of Catholic America for the ensu­ing year. 
Prof. Daniel O'Grady, co-author with Father Miltner of a philosoph­ical taxt also attended the Detroit convention, delivering an address on "Anti-Realistic Tendencies." 
Prof. Paul J. Menge, of the depart­ment of modem languages, gave a lecture on "Some of the Aspects of the Tristan Story in German Liter­ature Since 1900" at the annual meet­ing of the Modem Language Asso­ciation of America, which was held at Yale University, New Haven, Conn., Dec. 29-31. 
Profs. Louis Buckley and Lee Flatley, instructors in economics and finance, attended the annual meeting of the American Association of Com­merce in Cincinnati, December 29, 30 and 31. 
Hall to the former site of the clothing store, next to the late Rockefeller Hall. 
And the old steps of Washington Hall will soon be no more. 
The entrance will be moved to the ground floors adjoining the Brownson "rec" hall, and inside stairways are designed to prevent the pre-opening crush of students that used to rock the stones of the old steps and cor­rugate the skins of those unfortunate enough to be on the railings. 





THE BELOVED LEADER 
The memorj- of George Gipp is the sacred heirloom of the Notre Dame man. About the memory of the immortal captain has grown a halo of tradition that is Notre Dame's most cherished possession. 
George Gipp died on December 13, 1920, from a throat infection, shortly after playing his last game against Northwestern Uni-'; versity some three weeks pre- :. . vious. During his final illness, j:': two thousand students knelt in J y' daily prayer for his recovery. He was buried during a blinding snowstorm within sight of the shores of Lake Superior, in his native town of Laurium, Michigan. 
Shortly after the death of Gipp, movements to pay his fu­neral expenses and to erect a memorial to his memory were begun, but the father of the ath­lete forbade their continuance. A large group of Notre Dame men paid their final respects at the grave of their captain when he was laid to rest. 
Notre Dame, then, is without a stone or bronze monument to George Gipp. But enshrined in the hearts of the men of Notre Dame is the vital memory of their leader. Today George Gipp lives for the Notre Dame man as truly as he did when his "fly­ing cleats" made immortal history on Cartier Field. 
GEORGE 

The little town in Michigan Is tucked beneath the snows; A norther from Superior Is calling as it blows. Full many a hundred yards or more Lie down the village street And seem to wait the darting pass Of famous cleated feet. 
The mining shafts of Laurium Are goal posts in the gloaming And the treetops sound a whistle To the copper miners homing. A murmur's in the wind today To all the native hearers. And whirling gusts from far Canuck Are twenty thousand cheerers. 
The game is on! And through the snow The northers sweep and dip, The wind is calling signals To its brother halfback, Gipp! 

 GIPP 

The Indiana Prairie lands Are blanketed with snow; The golden dome of Notre Dame Re-gilds the sundown glow. On the medieval campus, In the early frosty flurry. Two thousand men are harking To the ^Wnd's uneasy scurry. 
-A rat-a-tat of flying feet Is bom from Cartier, Tho' the gridiron now is barren -And the dusk is in the air. Is it Army, Purple, Georgia ? Is it scores they now remember? Or classic catches, leaps and nins. This evening in December? 
The Game is on! And through the snow The northers sweep and dip. The wind is calling signals To its brother halfback, Gipp! 
Quin A. Ryan. (Dome of '26) 

Bather I prefer to believe that the scourge of these hard times has helped to place a better sort of book in the hands of most men. Speaking only of the'volume under review, it ought to have a sobering effect upon the nation, to go back over the early years of trial and extremely re­stricted governmental expenses and taxation. Before the depression is over, perhaps as a nation we shall have again learned to read. (Scribner, 53.50). 
Speakin' of and Apvertainin' to 
Paul R. Martin (Ex-'09) 

Prevailingly serious during his col­lege years, missing little that passed before those almost half-closed slant­ing eyes of his, Paul E. Martin was a delightful blend of strength and gen­tleness. One of the first things I noted about him was an extraordi­nary interest in St. Francis of Assisi, his spirit and the Order he founded. Paul has travelled much and written more since his college days, but his devotion to St. Francis is still the paramount characteristic of his life. Through the Bruce Publishing Co. of Milwaukee, under the editorship of Father Husslein, the Jesuits are is­suing the Science and Culture Series, a long list of books for the most part coming from the pens of notable scholars and writers. To Paul Mar­tin has been assigned the subject, "The Third Order Secular of St. Francis and Christian Social Re­form." The subject is at once the easiest and the most diiBcult to write about. If one is satisfied to repeat the humdrum, uninspired jargon com­monly tossed about, it is possible to get by, in our innocent Catholic way, without crucifixion, leaving us the melancholy consolation of merely say­ing, with the old Latin poet, "Male­dicti qui ante nos nostra dixerunt," which (I should suggest) may be eas­ily and freely translated: "Damned be our ancestors who stole our stuff!" But such a book as that would hardly find a place in this series. There is much evidence of research and wide reading in the actual text itself, and this evidence is so penetrating and so much a part of the web and woof of the book that its genuineness cannot be questioned. I have learned much from the reading of Mr. Martin's substantial and edifying volume, and believe it is destined to be one of the most popular and acceptable in the whole series. This is just an early and brief account of the book. I pro-, pose to review it at greater length later on in other publications. 

BOOK AND INGLENOOK 
Things Old And New 
A Beveridge of High Content 
Senator Albert J. Beveridge was one of the most attractive figures of my time. Tall of stature, athletic of build, noble of countenance, brilliant of speech, attractive in manner and personality—he easily became the idol of his friends. Elected to the Senate while the Philippine question was sizzling hot, the first thing Beveridge did after election was to hurry off to the Philippines and load himself to the gills with all kinds of information about them. Against the tradition that condemns a new senator to si­lence for a year, he began at once to electrify Congress and the country with • scintillating speech, wise sug­gestions, constructive committee woric. From that time he grew steadily in power and popularity until one of the accidents of politics dethroned him, giving him the precious opportunity to produce the great biography of Chief Justice Marshall in four vol­umes and to continue with other im­portant literary enterprises. The title of the present work is "Bever­idge and the Progressive Era"; which means the period between 1898 and 1924, in some interesting ways mo­mentous years in modern politics. The stage of public life was crowded with great actors sometimes tragedians, sometimes unconscious comedians. As an idealist the Progressive movement appealed strongly to the brilliant and disinterested Beveridge and he ad­hered to it with an intensity and genius that alone, even had there been no other actors, would have made it outstanding and important. Bever­idge was an ideal subject for a biog­raphy, especially since the biography has for background such variegated and colorful matter. The author, Claude G. Bowers, has already won the hearts of book lovers by his stud­ies of Jefferson and Hamilton and the Jackson Period. High-toned, schol­arly, throbbing with interest, all these books are, but none of them will surpass in intense and prominent claim the story of Beveridge and the Era of the Progressive Statesman, I am happy to record that the taste for colored and learned biographies is growing amazingly among Americans. 
Among all except nit-wits and morons, it has almost entirely re­placed any kind of interest in the horrid over-sexed stuff pig-penned by the popular novelists. When the Eighteenth Amendment is a thing of the past, may I without indelicacy ex­press the hope that the ladies will not only abandon the less becoming beverages for a book like this and at the same time "unlax" the over­sexed stuff of which, I grieve to say, they often seem to be the chief sup­porters. (Houghton, Mifflin, $5.) 
The March of Democracy 
Will Be March ith 

The latest book of the learned and charming James Truslow Adams is "The March of Democracy; the Rise of the Union." While this book lay in my room awaiting judgment, in walked one Josephus Daniels,—liter­ally a Daniels come to judgment!— at one time, I seem to remember, in some way connected with the United States Navy. With the freedom of an old friend, Josephus seized this vol­ume • and said to the bright young man who writes all nvj book reviews: "Young man I am glad to see you reading the best book that has been produced this year." Secretary Dan­iels was quite right. In content, in readableness, in illustrative material, it bangs Banagher, so it does! It gambols through 400 pages of his­tory, reflection and generalization, and I am sure some of my old friends would think it a mortal sin to read the book because it gives so much pleasure. Keeping in mind, as the subtitle suggests, that the author's object was to trace the rise of the Union, the story begins with the dis­covery and settlement, and follows naturally through intervening steps to the last chapter which deals with "the inevitable conflict," the War Be­tween the States. They say that in spite of the hard times it costs just as much to publish a book now as it did four or five years ago. They also say that publishers are being ruined hand over fist in a day that is produc­ing some of the best biography and history that the language knows. 


ATHLETICS; 

Review of '32 Shows Athletics Outstanding 
By JOSEPH PETRITZ; '32 
The extra-curricular diversion of athletics at Notre Dame during the past year has been maintained at a high standard, and, as usual, it has set a fast pace for such activities as debating, band, orchestra, glee club, elections, dances, campus clubs, and publications. 
It is not for us to try to dim the glory of Notre Dame's athletes. They made good records in competition during the past year, exceptionally fine marks in track, basketball, foot­ball, and golf. For all the space the various media of publicity, including the campus publications, he has never been a little tin god to the campus residents, so it is not necessary to de­emphasize him in this piece, which is primarily intended as a review of the year in athletics. 
Students of football point out that the players of today are becoming smarter than those of the past. They are setting up a sounder standard of values for themselves, realizing more forcibly than ever that an eight col­umn newspaper banner one day does not mean a $5,000 or more coaching job for life. They are entering into football more and more as a game, and not as a stepping stone to success in the bond business. Who wants to sell bonds now anyhow? They are watching past stars flop as coaches, and unsung heroes come to the top of the coaching, business and profes­sional worlds. 
Our only observation in this con­nection is that the democratic spirit 
, of the Notre Dame campus and of the squads themselves have tended always to help a star player proceed on an even keel. And this new standard of publicity values is nothing especially new at Notre Dame. 
A national championship does help get the players off on the right foot. Most of the members of a champion­ship team can get coaching jobs, or they can find openings in other lines of endeavor. But it is mere verbiage to point out that a too good start is not necessarily half the battle. Owen D. Young congratulated last year's graduating class on having to start out in life during a depression. A star player or any member of a cham­pionship squad may too easily forget the lessons of the hard knocks to get him to the top in football. At Notre Dame, as we have said, and as you full well know, these lessons are usually pounded in again by the good natured "goofing" of the other players and students—or by more forcible means. 
The members of the 1932 team should have learned enough in their two games with Pittsburgh and Southern California so that they need no reminders. They played a typ­ically difficult Notre Dame schedule. The fact that they lost to these two teams will not be held against them. They showed in other games that they were capable of superlative football. No one else beat Pitt or U. S. C, so they were forced to settle the issue among themselves New Year's day. 
That Notre Dame has not lost its hold upon the imagination of the public is shown by the fact that attendance at games Increased from 413,000 in 1931 to 441,000 in 1932. For purposes of record, we repeat here the scores of the games: 
Notre Dame, 73; Haskell, 0. 
Notre Dame, 62; Drake, 0. 

Notre Dame, 42; Carnegie Tech, 0. 
Notre Dame, 0; Pittsburgh, 12. 
Notre Dame, 24; Kansas, 6. 
Notre Dame, 21; Northwestern, 0. 
Notre Dame, 12; Navy, 0. 
Notre Dame, 21; Army, 0. 
Notre Dame, 0; Southern Cal., 13. 

Totals Notre Dame, 255; oppon­ents, 31. 
George Melinkovich, fullback ace who finished his second year of var­sity stardom, with bigger and better things predicted for him next season, led the team in scoring ^vith eight touchdowns for 48 points. Steve Banas, fullback, was second with six touchdowns.. Joe Sheeketski scored 24 points from right halfback. Chuck Jaskwhich, was a point behind with three touchdowns and five extra points. Ray Brancheau, right half­back, and Lowell Hagan, full back, each had two touchdowns. Emmett Murphy, quarterback, made a touch­down and five extra points, for a total of 11. Frank Laborne, left halfback, made a touchdown and three extra points to get nine points and outdis­tance the following players, all of whom scored one touchdown; Jim Harris, guard; Red Tobin, right half; Al Costello, right half; Dominic Vairo, left end; Hugh Devore, right end; and Ed Kosky, left end. Weiland of Drake was credited ^vith a safety for Notre Dame's other two points. 
The graduating players include Ed Kosky, all-Western left end; Jim Harris, all-American left guard; Ben Alexander, center; Norm Greeney, right guard; Bill Pierce, right guard; Joe Kurth, all-American right tackle; Capt, Paul Host, right end; Chuck Jaskwhich, quarterback; Emmet t Murphy, quarterback; Mike Koken, left halfback; and Joe Sheeketski, right halfback. 
The only returning regulars are Ed Krause, left tackle; Jack Robinson, center; George Melinkovich, fullback; Nick Lukats, left halfback; and Ray Brancheau, right halfback. The latter two and Robinson divided time on the first team with other players. They will form the nucleus of the team which must go out and play a ten-game schedule witliout a soft game in the bunch. Here it is: 
Oct. 7—^Kansas at Notre Dame. 
Oct. 14—^Indiana at Bloomington. 

Oct. 21—Carnegie Tech at Pitts­burgh. Oct. 28—Pittsburgh at Notre Dame. 
Nov. 4—^Navy (site to be decided) 

Nov. 11—^Purdue at Notre Dame. 
Nov. 18—Northwestern at Evan­ston. Nov. 25—So. California at Notre Dame. Dec. 2—Army at New York. California at Berkeley (date in­definite. 
Basketball 

Basketball holds the current spot­light at Notre Dame, and deservedly. Going back a month into 1931, we can compile the season record for last season. Eighteen victories in 20 starts. Sixteen in a row, starting on New Year's eve at Evanston. Three more victories this year' gave Notre Dame a string of 19 consecutive wins before Purdue and Ohio State gave the streak a compound frac­ture. 
The highlights of this season were Joe Voegele's feat of making 20 points against Albion in the opener to set a modern Notre Dame scoring record; the hand Ed Krause got when he stepped into the Illinois Wesleyan game for the last ten minutes, after arriving in South Bend from the coast the day be­fore, Krause's great showing against Northwestern, which Notre Dame defeated without the services of Capt. Johnny Baldwin during the majority of the game; the close battle Notre Dame gave Purdue and Ohio State, playing the former without the ser\-­ices of Baldwin, Al McGuff and Leo Crowe and the latter without JIcGufF and Crowe. These three lads are all guards, which explains how Purdue got 36 points and Ohio State 30 while Notre Dame was getting 31 and 24 in the respective games. 
Following is how' Notre Dame ac­complished its 1931-32 record: 
1931-32 RECORD 
Notre Dame, 37; Kalamazoo, 7. Notre Dame, 37; Adrian, 13. Indiana 23; Notre Dame, 18. Purdue, 32; Notre Dame, 24. Notre Dame, 32; Northwestern, 25. Notre Dame, 22; Northwestern 21. Notre Dame, 34; St. Thomas (St. 

Paul), 19. Notre Dame, 28; Michigan State, 
25. Notre Dame, 43; Marquette, 31. Notre Dame, 32; Pennsylvania, 25. Notre Dame, 25; Pittsburgh, 12. Notre Dame, 33; Iowa, 18. Notre Dame, 25; Pittsburgh, 19. Notre Dame, 26; Syracuse, 18. Notre Dame, 32; Western Reserve, 
25. Notre Dame, 37; Butler, 32. Notre Dame, 28; Michigan State, 
20. Notre Dame, 39; Army, 23. Notre Dame, 37; Marquette, 26. Notre Dame, 28; Butler, 23. 
And the following tells ho\y the streak was run to 19 before Purdue and Ohio State got in their dirty work: 
CAPT. JOHN BALDWIN, Guard 
Notre Dame, 41; Albion 20. 

Notre Dame, 24; Illinois Wesleyan, 12. Notre Dame, 28; Northwestern, 25. Purdue, 36; Notre Dame, 31. Ohio State, 30; Notre Dame, 24. 
With the regular guards in there, there is little doubt that Notre Dame would have accomplished Keogan's purpose, holding the opposition to 19 points. "If you do that," he says, "you will win the majority of your games." And Keogan, having won 142 games while losing only 43 for a percentage of .768 for nine years, should know. 

Track 

Coach John P. Nicholson's track team, consisting of Alex Wilson and some other fellows, made the greatest record this year that any Notre Dame squad has put into books. Wilson, now coaching track and basketball for Loyola of Chicago, was recently named the outstanding athlete in Canada for the past year. 
Indoors Notre Dame defeated Iowa, 53 to 35; Butler, 64 to 22; Illinois (for the second time in 20 years) 54% to 40%; and Marquette, 501/3 to 40 2/3, besides winning the Cen­tral Intercollegiate Conference meet 

from the fastest field the indoor event has ever known. 
Outdoors, Notre Dame won the two-mile relay at Kansas and came within inches of sweeping the Drake relays, ^vinning the mile in 3.19.9, the two-mile in the record time'of 7:48.8, and taking second to Indiana in the med­ley, for which the Hoosiers set a new-record. Notre Dame was the out­standing relay competitor at the pop­ular Pes Moines games. 
Following this, Michigan State nosed Notre Dame out by half a point for the only dual meet loss of the year, 65% to 65'4. The Irish went on to defeat Pittsburgh, 73 to 53, and Army, 681/3 to 57 2/3. Ralph Metcalfe and his teammates won the 
C. I. C. outdoor meet with Wisconsin, the first Big Ten team to compete in the C. I. C, second and Notre Dame third. 
Golf 

The golf team did a bit of promot­ing itself, taking the record of the last two years without defeat and ex­tending it to 20 straight matches fay winning the first four, before Purdue broke the chain. Pittsburgh, scoring under Eastern rules, won by 4 to 2 at Pittsburgh. Notre Dame would have won imder the western system which gives a point for each nine holes and another point for the 18. 
The team won from Valparaiso, Loyola of Chicago, Detroit, Ulichigan State and Iowa. 

CROWLEY TO FORDHAM 
This is hardly news. Every paper in the country has carried accounts of the popular Jimmy Crowley's ac­ceptance of the coaching position at Fordham, following his release from a contract at Michigan State. Jim had three years in the latter school with mutually profitable results that won him the admiration of State students and alumni. His ability as an after-dinner speaker has kept pace with his rise as a coach and during his career at State he spoke frequently to alum­ni and athletic organizations. 
Jim has announced that Glen "Judge" Carberry, captain of the '22 Notre Dame team, who was his chief assistant at Michigan State, will ac­company him to Fordham. 
The advent of the Notre Dame sys­tem in major metropolitan football has been widely publicized by the New York papers, where Notre Dame in the Army series has made a vivid' impression on the city's fans. 


Notre Dame's Football Relations with Michigan 
Rumors of Games Arouse Old Issues,- Most of Notre Dame's Younger Alumni Not Clear as to Orisinal Controversy; Changes of Time Have Erased Major Causes of Dissension 
The ALUMNUS here disturbs a 
grave, because the tombstone has be­
come obscured with various elements 
and it is well, in the discussion of a 
aiichigan-Notre Dame game, that the 
Notre Dame alimini know the corpse 
whereof they speak. Nihil mortimm 
nisi bonum ^vill prevail, and any ad­
verse facts are printed for their 
factual merits rather than for their 
adversity. 
In 1909 when Notre Dame was con­
ceded the football championship of 
the West over "Michigan, mighty 
monarch of the West," we were still 
known in the press as "Notre Dame, 
Indiana" and "the Catholics." Which 
is significant of many things. Of the 
Michigan-Notre Dame game of that 
year which was won by Notre Dame 
11-3, the ALUMNUS refrains from 
using a local report, but chooses in­
stead a paragraph from the Detroit 
Free Press of Sunday, Nov. 7, 1909, 
what one might call a "home paper" 
of the opposition: 
"Notre Dame Crippled for Today's Game was the heading over advance dope on the game. If it had been a little more crippled, perhaps the score would have been 22 to 3 instead of only 11 to 3. Eleven fighting Irish­men wrecked the Yost machine this afternoon. These sons of Erin indi­vidually and colIecti%'ely representing the University of Notre Dame not only beat the Michigan team, but they dashed some of Michigan's fondest hopes and shattered her fairest dreams." 
The New York Herald of the same 
date said: 
'Outplaying them at every depart­ment of the game, Notre Dame de­feated Michigan this afternoon by a Score of 11 to 3. The Indiana team scored two well-earned touchdowns against the Michigan eleven while one place kick by Capt. Allerdice was ilichigan's only score." 
The Chicago Inter-Ocean, same date, commented: 
"Michigan was the stepladder by which Notre Dame today mounted the dizziest heights in its football history, the Catholics downing the Wolverines by a score of 11 to 3. The game by which Notre Dame won its right to claim to have one of the best elevens in the country was won by its team by hard, fast, clean play. Luck had nothing to do with either of the two touchdowns which Notre Dame made." 
Such ^^•as the first game in which Notre Dame, coached by "Shorty" 
Longman, former Michigan star, de­
feated the team which had taught it 
football in 1888. 
It was the last Michigan-Notre 
Dame game. The Dome of 1911, de­
scribing the 1910 season, says, 
"On October 29th, at Lansing, 
Michigan, she (Notre Dame) was out­
played and beaten for the first time 
in two years. This slump aroused a 
fighting spirit, the players practiced 
faithfully intending to redeem them­
selves at Ann Arbor. Michigan evi­
dently feared defeat because she 
cancelled the game the night before." 
The Scholastic of Nov. 12, 1910, 
states, under "The Case With Mich­
igan:" 
"Michigan's cancellation of the Michigan-Notre Dame football game, which was to have been played in Ann Arbor last Saturday, has been the cause of much discussion here the past week. The trouble centered on our intention to play Dimmick and Philbrook, Michigan claiming that both these men were ineligible be­cause of the fact that they had played out their time as collegiate football players. A review of the athletic career of both of these men shows that in 1904-5 they were preparatory students in Tullatin Academy and competed on teams there. The fol­lowing year both men were students at Pearson's Academy, an institution apart from Whitman College. In September 1907, they registered at Whitman College, taking two fresh­man studies and three or four pre­paratory studies. Dimmick remained at Whitman until February, 1908, and Philbrook until June of the same year. Whitman is not named in the list of conference colleges issued in September, 1907. Because of that it is only reasonable to presume these men as participating in preparatory athletics prior to their coming to Notre Dame. On these grounds we maintain that Philbrook and Dim­mick are eligible and will continue to hold these grounds. 
"Last January when this game was arranged. Manager Curtis inauired as to whether we would be allowed to play these men in the game this fall, and Director of Athletics Bar­telme gave his assurance that there would be no trouble on that score. Mr. Bartelme also assured Coach Longman to the same effect. The reason for Notre Dame's desire that this matter be settled was brought about by various reports which origi­nated from the Michigan camp last 
fall, after the Notre Dame game, con­
cerning the eligibility of these men. 
"The fact that Michigan sent down 
the names of Cole and Clarke as be­
ing eligible for this game leads to the 
one conclusion that they should con­
sider Dimmick and Philbrook eligible, 
for Clarke and Cole, according to con­
ference rules, are ineligible, as Cole 
played the seasons of '05, '07 and '08 
at Oberlin, and Clarke too has played 
his allotted time according to confer­
ence rule.' 
Bartelme subsequently denied hav­ing made any agreement with Curtis or Longman, but Michigan was sub­jected to considerable criticism, even by the friendly press. Notre Dame was described in the Michigan stories as a "practice game" by Coach Yost, which, Michigan authorities said, "was to have been dropped anyhow." 
The late cancellation and the con­troversy concerning the agreement on Dimmick and Philbrook caused con­siderably more feeling among par­tisans than the usual ending of rela­tions. Consequently, any renewal of relations has always found a revival of the old partisanship. 
However, times have changed for both institutions. Michigan, recog­nized this year as national champions by the Dickinson rating, winning thereby the Knute Eockne Memorial Trophy sponsored by the Four Horse­men of Notre Dame, is still a strong team, but no longer undisputed "mighty monarchs of the West." Notre Dame's football team has be­come a national institution. The old obscurity has gone, prejudices and religious feeling have pretty much vanished together, so far as policy goes. 
Inasmuch as Michigan was the first team to play Notre Dame, in that memorable April of 1888, and a long series of games which became more and more interesting ensued (one of the criticisms levelled at Michigan by a Detroit paper was the sacrifice of a $5,000 gate by the cancellation), na­turally a resumption of activity would have much sentiment on the constructive side. 
However, with Michigan back in the Conference (she had withdrawn over eligibility disputes before the Notre Dame controversy), and with Notre Dame able to get along fairly well, as the years since 1909 have proved, the resumption of relations is not essential to either school. 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
Two New Clubs Testify That Notre Dame Spirit Is Strong 
As "Flesh Weakens" Dallas and Laporte Clubs Join Ranks; Rhode Island on Verge of Organization,­Possibilities of Clubs Greater Now Than Ever Before 
On Nov. 30 the Alumni Secretary and Santa Claus (separately) -i-isited Laporte, Indiana, the former to be an appreciative audience at the or­ganization of the Notre Dame club of Laporte, the latter to instill in the children of Laporte some of the same good cheer and persistent ideals res­ponsible for the alumni acti\'ity there (albeit Claus enjoyed a subsidy from mercantile sources which lessened the value of his project.) 
As a result of the meeting, called by aliunni and students commuting from Laporte this year and enjoying thereby a certain alumni relationship already, A. Gordon Taylor, '17-'18, was elected president of the new or­ganization, Arthur Roule, '30, vice-president, and Norman Duke, '33, secretary-treasurer. A constitutional committee was appointed and a dis­cussion of possible activities followed. The activities proposed in the Fitz­simmons committee report at the Sec­ond Annual Council of Local Alumni clubs were read and the majority of them found to be adaptable to small clubs as well as large. 
The Notre Dame club of Laporte is the second college alumni group to or­ganize in the community. With a number of students already enjoying the economic advantages of driving back and forth this year, the growth of the club seems assured. 
On Dec. 9, Arthur T. Simpson, '97, Dallas, governor of District XIV of the Association, announced the organ­ization of the Notre Dame club of Dallas. James P. Swift, '24, is presi­dent of the new club, D. Pat Buell, '24, first vice-president, William A. Grady, '13-'15, second vice-president, and Frank A. McCullough, '26-'29, secretary. 
And word comes from Rhode Island, where students and alumni combined to the number of some 115 couples for a holiday dance, the first of its kind, at the Narragansett hotel, Providence, that the Rhode Island alumni are about to launch an organ­ization there. 
There are now 70 Notre Dame clubs, not including the very valuable Women's club, composed of the lay and religious women graduates, most­ly of the summer schools. This group, divided by location and religious Or­ders, actually could be organized in numerous units, if conditions ever permitted the attention to it that its merits and its possibilities deserve. 
Club organization is far enough along, activities are advanced to a point where the value of community organization wherever even a small group of alumni exist is evident. Notre Dame has profited immensely from the scattered manifestations of organized interest and responsibility. In turn, as the school has profited and the club increased in strength, indi­vidual members have felt the benefits that accrue. With the new system of Governors, extending to areas not yet organized, the possibilities of effective activity are in a position to advance another significant step. 
But unless the Alumni Office, the "switch-hoard" for the clubs, is kept not only existing but alive and active, through support, it is going to be harder and harder to "make connec­tions." It is discouraging to see such vast possibilities, practically at hand, being wasted for lack of a compar­atively small basis upon which to grasp them. 
BUFFALO 

Dear Jim: Here is some club news. Dec 13th we had our annual meeting and elec­tion of officers, being right up with the times—a new party—a new slate. Head man—Paul D. Hoeffler, '25. Next best — Cornelius J. Irwin, Jr., '03. Typist—Edmund J. Lutz, Jr., '24. Money lender—Henry L. Burns, '29. The Board of Directors are those four officers and Gordon Bennett, Jim Irwin, Al Boehm, Leo Freitas, Dr. Robert Burns, Marty Ryan, George Doyle, Nick O'Mara and Biff Lee. We hope to do and be done. The depression never hit Buffalo. 
Ed Lutz has a son. Bus Irwin has a son, Bob Moore has a daughter and does he take it on the chin—drawing a girl when the rest had boys. Oh Bob! Gordon Bennett stepped off the plank and so did our natty little Hank Burns. They sort of kept it a secret up 'til the end, and then "went and done it." A couple of nice fellows though. 
Al Boehm is back in town. Marty Travers won the state contest of bankers as their best speech maker, and by the way, Marty is president of the ushers society at St. Mark's church, the headquarters of N. D. in Buffalo Sundays at the ten o'clock Mass. Marty Ryan and I help Pres. Travers take up the money and then split it four ways—^yes, St. Mark's gets the other quarter. Should work out pretty fair if only we can educate the people to give and give more. 
Had a letter from Al Serva, '24, the other day. He would like to move to Buffalo and settle down, become domesticated (this is no matrimonial ad). He says Canada is so close by and—oh, well, judge for yourself. Ed Baker, '23, who came into the Hoef­fler family a few years ago by mar­riage, brought his family to Buffalo for the winter. Boston is no good in cold weather, so he says. He sees Joe Desmond often. Joe is getting bigger as the days grow longer. Saw Hugh Blunt and Al Birmingham a few times and some of the other fellows along his travels up in Maine, Ver­
mont, etc. Happy New Year. Paul Hoeffler. 
BOSTON 

A card from Jim Dooley, '22, Sec­retary, says: "The Notre Dame Club of Boston has accepted the invitation of the Boston Club of Notre Dame to join with them in the annual Christ­mas dance to be held Dec. 29 at Longwood Towers, Brookline, Mass. Many of the alumni will attend, to frolic with the "current edition" of 
N. Ders. These dances have always 
Jaiuiarn 1033

been pleasant affairs and one source of contact between alumni and alum­ni to be. 
CHICAGO 
Announcement came too late for the last issue of the annual Hard Time Frolic of the N. D. Club of Chicago, held at Yondorf Hall, Nov. 
26. On the program were listed Roller Skating, John Costello; Wres­tling, Jack Elder; Dumbell Exercises, Jim Eigney; Weight Lifting, Eddie Gould; Pantomine, Buck Hennes; Ballot Dance, Judge Casey. The Sponsors were listed as the Chapin St. Improvement Ass'n., Sorin Hall Insomnia Club, Amen Comer, Chem­ical Research and Seizure Syndicate, and the Forgotten Man's Memorial Association. A dollar and a half— which is hard times in Chicago—cov­ered the bill for a couple. 
CINCINN.A.TI 

Leo DuBois was a visitor in the Alumni Office, Dec. 6 and the Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati took another step thereby. There wasn't much Leo said that hadn't been reported as news by the efficient Secretary of the Club, but these face-to-face bashings over of things past, present and fu­ture usuallj' serve either to confirm or dispel certain general impressions. The Editor had had the impression, though never a visitor to Cincinnati, that the Club there was founded on the good rock of individual merit in the membership which merely gains mass strength from organization. Talking with Leo confirmed this. And here's hoping that Commodore Mc-Hugh is out of the hospital and con­tributing his usual enthusiasm. 
CLEVELAND 

Dear Jim: After that last issue of the ALUM­NUS I am beginning to realize that I have relied too much on your stimu­lating postal. And add to that the fact that I have been dodging the grip for the last three weeks with it gradually closing in on me so that I am writing this "en robe de nuit" or what have you. But the mail must go through. Hoiie we're "on time" this issue. You have probably heard by now of the successful week-end that Cleve­land and Notre Dame had on the week-end of the Navy-Notre Dame game. It was due entirely to the fine cooperation which we received from everybody concerned that the partj' was such a fine success. Wish to take this opportunity to thank both you and Art Haley for the fine assistance your departments gave us. I had lunch with Lou Stettler, our treasurer, yesterday and understand " that we had approximately 300 at the 
dinner and between 400 and 500 paid admissions at the dance—not to men­tion the dozens of "one-eyed Con­nelly's" and pseudo football players etc. 
Naturally, the experience obtained will be of inestimable value when the next game comes. In connection with that I might add that efforts are now being made to line up several other big games for next year in Cleveland. 

Considerable work has been done by the Campus club on their Christmas dance, which is planned for Dec. 26 at the Allerton Hotel ball room. Cleve Carey, president of the Cleveland club on the campus, and John Begley, his chairman, have been successful in lining up Emerson Gill and John Bel­jon for the music. Incidentally, word comes to me indirectly that the cam­pus organization has become a model of its kind. So you see we have reason to expand the chest a bit over our junior department. 
But let's lean over the back fence 

for a spell — Did I tell you in my 
last letter that Jack Flynn is a 
proud father? Also, have word from 
Youngstown that the affairs of the 
Eeidy Mansion have been taken over 
by John Joseph, Jr. The Mrs. Reidy 
(formerly Madeline Deegan of Cleve­land and St. Mary's) is reported do­ing fine. Jerry Eeidy was the smil­ing God-father. 
Our own Dan Sammon has been married this long time. The young lady was formerly Miss Esther Wright of Cleveland. You may blame me for the belated congratulations, Dan. 
Supplementing my remarks of some time a£;o, the illustrious Pierce J. O'Connor has cast his lot with the law firm of Cull, Fuller and Laugh­lin. Judge Cull, the senior member of the firm is a jjrother to our Frank 
X. Cull, who is also one of the pil­lars of the local Bar. I know you will join with me in thanking Frank for his self-sacrificing assistance in con­nection with the Navy Program. Al­most forgot to add that Lawyer O'Connor has now assumed a serious demeanor, added 10 pounds and a mustache (?) and carries a brief-case. I refer you to Professor Moran of the English department for any com­ment on that. 
Saw Jim Moran the other day and he informs me that arrangements are nearing completion for the Alumni Eetreat to be held during Lent at the Jesuit House in Cleveland. Jim, as you know, is in the Seminary here in Cleveland, and so is well qualified for the job of Chairman of the Retreat Committee. 
A Merry Christmas and a Joyous New Year, 
Clayton G. Leroux, Secretary. 
DES MOINES Dear Jim: 
The boys around here have been 
very quiet and so I haven't very much 
to report to you at this time, ivith 
one possible exception and it is with 
deep feeling of regret that I advise 
you of ME. HENRY L. SHEUER­
MAN, '04, who died very suddenly 

Wednesday night. Mr. Sheuerman 
was Vice-President of the Sheuer­
man Woolen Mills in Des Moines and 
a very active Notre Dame man. 
HARRY O'BOYLE has returned to his boyhood haunts after spending a season with the Green Bay Packers. 
VINCENT HARRINGTON, '25, President of the Notre Dame club of Sioux City has been elected to the legislature and will probably spend some of his time during the coming year in Des Moines. 
LARRY WALSH is the father of a third child, this time a daughter. 
JOHN HYNES, '15, is Secretary of the Employers Mutual Casualty Company with home offices in Des Moines. 
NORTO N SULLIVAN, '20, is 

Counsel for the Iowa State "rraveling 
Men's Association. 
Sorry, Jim, that I can't give you any more information at the present time but will try to dig up some dirt for an early issue. 
Charles H. Lynch. 
DAYTON 

Dear Jim: 
Received your card asking for news The Dayton club held a little radio party at the Van Cleve hotel Dec. 10th to listen to the Notre Dame-Southern California game. Of course we were all disappointed that Notre Dame did not win, but despite this everyone seemed to have a good time. 
Bob Proctor of Elkhart, Ind., was our guest for the afternoon; most of us remembered the pep talks Bob used to give the student body before a big game with the result that Notre Dame usually won. 
Andrew Aman, Jr., '30. 
FORT WAYNE 

Frank J. Gilraartin, president, writes that numerous things have kept the Club from a regular meet­ing but that about twenty N. D. men attended the annual Gridiron Ban­quet in Fort Wayne Dec. 12 and took the Southern California post-mortems in good grace. 
KANE COUNTY Dear Jim: I'm sorry that I haven't written to you before now, but it just seems as though I could not gather enough information to bother about. Here 
goes, though—^you can use anything that is worth while. 
Clarence Ruddy, '27 lost out in his race for State's Attorney of Kane county, bue he managed to poll the largest Democratic vote that ever went to a Democratic candidate in this Republican stronghold. He will get some place yet, because he is very well known and well liked, and has the initiative and ability. The last I heard of Joe Gardewins, '31 was that he planned to drive out to California with several other fellows for the winter. Ward Gosselin ex-student, was married on Oct. 15, to Margaret Berertian who is a former St. Mary's student. He and his brother John, '29 are active in the management of their father's hotel properties. Claude Wat­son (about '12 or '13) is Clerk of the City Court in Aurora and is cer­tainly a real Notre Dame man in every sense of the word. Spent last Saturday in Chicago and saw Bud Dyniewicz, '32. He is working for the Chicago Relief Committee. Paul Ochsenschlager and Ralph Johns, both ex-'33 and pounding the pave­ments every day, trying to find some­thing to keep them busy. 
By the way, Joe Lenihan was out here last summer. He was on an in­dustrial cainping trip, with about 12 other fellows—all employees of the Banker's Trust Co. Their trip e.K­tended throughout the entire indus­trial section of the country east of the Mississippi river. He spent one night with me. Vern Knox, '31 working in Chicago for some discount company; and Don Jlihan, '31 is working for NBC. Carl Schickler and Herbert Braun, both '27 are still around Aurora raising one daughter each.. 
Walter O'Malley, '30, is practicing law here. I never see his brother Tom, '32, but he's taking care of him­self, you can bet on that. 
Bill Chawgo. 
MILWAUKEE 

Dear Jim: 
During the past month the Mil­waukee-Notre Dame Club has been most active. A luncheon meeting was held at the Medford Hotel on the day of the Notre Dame-Army game. Thirty-five were present to cheer Notre Dame to victory. Charlie Davis, '21, appearing at the Wiscon­son Theatre as Master of Ceremonies for a limited engagement, and "Fritz" Breidster, ail-American guard and captain of the Army team of '22, a Milwaukee resident were guests of the Club. 
On December 9th the Club spon­sored a benefit bridge party for the Living Endowment Fund, at the Med­ford Hotel. It was a financial and so-
cal success. One hundred and twenty 
persons attended. 
The Club welcomes a new member in the person of Al Roach, '31, who has come to Milwaukee from Medina, New York to replace Leonard Horan, '31, as a member of the Catholic So­cial Welfare Bureau Staff. Leonard has gone to New York State where he will do research work for the New York State Probation Commission. 
Our President, William Redden and family, have gone to California to spend the holdiays with his parents. 
The Club extends its best wishes for a Merry Christmas and Happy New^ Year to all alumni, students and the faculty of the school. 
Sincerely, 
Charies O'Neill. 
William Redden sent the following 

news before he left for California. 
A six pound daughter, Clare Adele, 

was bom to Mr. and Mrs. Fred C. 
Miller, '29, on November 12th. Mrs. 
Miller is the daughter of Byron 
Kanaley, '04. 
Please change the address of W. E. Moore, '25, to Chief Engineer, Iron Fireman of Milwaukee, 1222 W. Cly­boume St., Milwaukee. 
MONTANA 

Dear Jim: It was indeed with great pleasure, and supreme satisfaction that we learned of the triumphant victory of 
U. N. D. in the football game with the U. S. Army in the City of New York last Saturday. 
The good Lord was with the boys, and they were going some. 
We are not fortunate to be on the National Broadcasting Company's hookup. The large concern in our City known as the Monarch Lumber Company who sponsors the returns on all prominent games, always fi­nances the broadcasting expense every Saturday of the most popular Colleges and teams. They are guided by the ones that receive the greatest, request to be announced over our local broadcasting station. 
It so proved that Notre Dame and the United States Army were the most popular and outstanding games in the country last Saturday, and our little City went wild with enthusiasm during the game. 
The old spirit of Notre Dame pos­sessed me. I offered a little prayer that our Lady of Victory would be with our boys, and see them the vic­tors safely through. Thank God it was a wonderful accomplishment. 
To give you and the other members of the Alumni an idea as to how the game was received I am enclosing a copy of the sport section of our Great Falls Tribune, Sunday's edition. (The banner position and Alan Gould's play by play account.) 
Kindly see that the recent copies of the ALUMNUS reach us promptly. We want to keep our local Notre Dame Club intact and enthused and progressing, and that is one way to do it—by constant contact with our Alma Mater. 
I have donated space in my ofiice down town to our local Notre Dame Club, which I happen to be (Vice President) of in this district. 
I would like to have some banners and shields and other office ornaments that would appeal and interest the old graduates, as well as enthuse the new prospective students for the Uni­versity. 
Ivindly convey our regards to Mr. Anderson, and the members of the team and faculty of Notre Dame. 
James B. Sherlock. 

NEW YORK Dear Jim: 
The annual Post-Army Dinner Dance was held this year at the Hotel Vanderbilt. We were fortunate in having Father Charles O'Donnell, Hunk Anderson and almost all of the team as our guests on this occa­sion. 
After witnessing such a remark­able football game everyone was in the proper mood for an evening of celebration. 
On Dec. 20th the members of the New York club assembled in the Catholic Writer's Guild for the an­nual election of a nominating com­mittee. This committee will select new members for the next Year's Board of Governors. Father John B. Kelly, chaplain of the Writer's Guild who was our Host gave a short ser­mon in the Guild's chapel followed by Benediction. After the business meeting was held Father Kelly gave a very interesting talk on Golf. 
We were very fortunate in having with us JL Jacquet, the famous French pianist who entertained us with several selections. 
Doc Gelson. 
ST. JOSEPH VALLEY 

A biggah and bettah show, my friends, at a price to fit the '33 purse! Attractions from every part of the world! If I barked, that's just about the way I'd tell you about the plans for the Thirteenth Annual Civic Tes­timonial Football Banquet under the sponsorship of the Notre Dame Club of the St. Joseph Valley, to be held Monday night, January 16, in the University Dining Halls. 
The most important feature is probably the cutting in half of the 1931 low of ?3 a ticket, so that $1.50 is the actually too nominal figure on this year's pasteboards. 
There has been no sacrifice in at­tractive features of the affair, rather an increase. 
Fundamentally it is for the foot­ball team and the coaches, and the post-holiday date was chosen to make sure they will be there. 
James A. Farley, national iigure in the world of sports, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, will be the principal speaker. 
East and Dumke, the latter a Notre Dame man, famous radio entertainers, Pat Barnes, famed in a similar ca­pacity, Eddie Dowling, musical com­edy star, and the brilliant University musical organizations, will be the at­tractions in the field of entertainment. 
Visiting coaches will appear at the head table as will celebrities in the radio, press and business world. 
William P. Sheehan, '24, is general chairman of the event. J. H. B. Mc­Carthy is ticket chairman, with Her­bert E. Jones, '27, handling the ticket distribution for alumni through the University Athletic Office. Tables are reserved, the St. Joseph Valley alum­ni were given an opportunity to pur­chase preferred seats before the pol­icy of first come, first serred was in­voked. With the speakers table in the center of the hall, however, and an efficient public address system in operation, all the thousand seats in the hall are good. 
SIOUX CITY 
Vincent Harrington writes that his election to the Iowa legislature has taken so much time that he's without news, but that Western Iowa is due for a long report in the near future. Okay, Senator Harrington! 
SYR.ACUSE 
Vince Brown writes: "The Syracuse Club held a meeting at the Hunters Club on December 10th and listened to the broadcast of the Southern Cal­ifornia game. A hastily made agree­ment at the beginning of the game prevented the sorrow of the defeat from being appropriately drowned. It is planned to hold additional meet­ings at various times during the win­ter. 
TOLEDO 
Dear Jim: In answer to your card dated Dec. 
19. I must apologize for not sending you information sooner for the ALUMNUS. 
Ben Kesting was elected to the of­fice of County Surveyor. 
John Carey, our president was elected to the state assembly. 
Phil Tomi)kins has two babies. Lenore, 17 months, and Terry, 2% months. 
Bud Clark (Paul) girl, Mary Lou­ise, 19 months old. 
Art Suder, e.Ypecting arrival. 
Ray Cunningham has a boy. 
The Toledo Notre Dame club will hold some sort of shin dig on Jan. 23 when Notre Dame basketball team plays Toledo university. 
I wish to extend you from the club and "myself wishes for best of health and happiness for the coming year. 
Fred Sprenger. 
TWIN CITIES 
The adjoining Colonial and La-Rouge rooms of the Leamington Ho­tel, Minneapolis, on the evening of Tuesday, December 27, were the scene of the 1932 Christmas formal dance of the Twin City-Notre Dame club. 
The general chairman of the ex­tensive system of committees was Jack Doyle, Minneapolis, president of the club and general chairman of the formal holiday dance of 1931. The club's permanent executive committee is composed of Paul I. McDermott, Dr. John M. CuUigan, and A. A. Mc-Donnel, of St. Paul, and Louis P. Chute, of Minneapolis. John Eldredge, St. Paul, is ^nce president of the or­ganization, and Robert P. Fogerty, of the College, secretary-treasurer. Arrangements were made among the Minnesota students on the Notre Dame campus by James Hiniker, St. Paul, president of the Minnesota club at the University. 
A group of St. Thomas alumni members consented to assist with plans for the afi'air. They were headed by Prof. John A. Madigan, of the college staff, president of the St. Thomas Alumni Association. The other members of the committee were Bert McKasy, John O'Halloran, John McGowan, and Francis Burg, all of St. Paul, and Cyril Leonard, Robert Fitzsimmons, Charles Regan, and Ray Scallan, of Minneapolis. 
The following committees worked out the details of the dance: Music, Robert Sullivan, Minneapolis, chair­man, Thomas Lee, Minneapolis, Ed­ward Fahey, and William Molan, St. Paul. Patrons, St. Paul, Joseph M. Boland, Eugene A. O'Neill, and Frank Mayer; Minneapolis, S Paul Skahen, Leon Moes, and Dr. Edward Gus­hurst. Publicity, St. Paul, John El­dredge; Minneapolis, Duane Yelland; Owatonna, Ambrose J. Lynard; War seca, Daniel M. Coughlin; Glencoe, Joseph O'Hara. Entertainment, St. Paul, Thomas Hodgson, Michael Mo­riarity, Dennis D. Daly, and Michael Schmidt; Minneapolis, Eugene O'­Brien, Carl O'Connell, and Dr. Wal­lace Kreighbaum; Owatonna, Clar­ence Kaplan, Decorations, St. Paul, James T. Masterson and John L. Worden, Jr., both of St. Thomas; Minneapolis, Roderick Sullivan, J. Percy Wilcox, Joseph Schroeder, and John Pettrich. Tickets St. Paul, Wil­liam H. Cleary, of the St. Thomas law school, Arthur Sullivan, Frank Hagenbarth, and Francis Schroeder; Minneapolis, John Meagher, Charles Holman, Walter Hall, and Ralph Hav­iland; St. Cloud, Joseph Benda. 
Jack Maverhill, Julie Madison and their Minnesota Breezers, together with Norvy Mulligan and his Min­neapolis Athletic Club organization, provided music for the affair. 



THE ALUMNI 
BIRTHS 
Blackstone was no obstetrician. South Bend's City Attorney WAL­TER CLEMENTS, '14, had his cases all set sufficiently ahead to permit him to attend the Notre Dame-Army game in New York, including the post-dating, by all known methods of computation, of the expected arrival of the latest of the Clements. BOB MC AULIFFE, cup-bearer to the local benedicts, met Walter on his re­turn from the Army game with the peculiar flair of the unfettered, "Con­gratulation's, it's a boy." And so it was. 
Christmas and New Year greetings from the ROBERT GRAHAMS and their son, Jimmy, carried a P. S. which turned out to be Pretty Sister, Carol, bom Dec. 21. Galesburg, III., is the proud center of this particular branch of Clan Graham. 
TERRANCE TOMPKINS will sur­prise the next census-taker at the home of Mr. and Mrs. PHIL TOMP­KINS, '29, 3047 W. Bancroft, To­ledo, O. 
In the Club and Class notes fre­quent vague references are found of additions to this and that alumnus' family, but lacking the statistical data preferred in this department, they are allowed to remain in the de­partments of their origin. If all of the alumni who are getting married or enjoying the fruits thereof would add an extra engraving or little shoe to their mailing list it would result in an official and informed announce­ment in these columns that the ALUMNUS is really very pleased to make, but about which it hesitates to indulge in creative writing. 

MARRIAGES 

T. PAUL M'GANNON, '07, prom­inent New York Attorney, a Director of the Alumni Association, a trustee of the Association in 1919-20, and a leader in alumni acti^aties in New York, was married Dec. 29 to Miss Marj' Byron, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. James C. Byron, Burlington, Iowa. Paul and Mrs. McGannon will be at home after Feb. 1 at 101 W. 58th St., New York. 
"When You Went to Old St. Mary's and I Went to Notre Dame" could have been played appropriately. Mrs. JIcGannon is a graduate of St. Mary's, and it was "across the road" that the romance blossomed. WIL­LIAM A. DRAPEK, a classmate of Paul's, was best man. Miss Mary Sheahan, Moberly, Mo., was the at­tendant for the bride, her cousin. 
"CHARLES BUTTERWORTH, '24, comedian in the revue "Flying Col­ors," was married after the perform­ance of that show on Friday night (Dec. 16) to Ethel Sutherland, it be­came known (yesterday morning) when Mr. and Mrs. Butterworth left for a week's vacation in Miami, Fla. The marriage took place in Harrison, 
N. Y., and WALTER O'KEEFE, '21, radio and ni^ht club entertainer, acted as best man for Mr. Butter-worth," So the New York Times aug­ments this column. 
Mrs. Bernard W. Masterson, Crystal City, Te.\-as, has announced the mar­riage of her daughter, Slargaret Mary, to MR. MURTAGH CONSI­DINE CULLINAN, '27, on Thanks­giving Day, Nov. 24. Murt and his bride are at home in Laredo, Texas. 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry S. Johnson, Oskaloosa, Iowa, have announced the marriage of their daughter, Charlotte Virginia, to Mr. GLENN MARTIN HATCH, '28, on Dec. 3. Glenn and Jlrs. Hatch are at home at 117 E. Fifth St., Ottumwa, Iowa. 
HENRY L. BURNS, '29, was mar­ried to Miss Mary Ruth Watt, daugh­ter of Mr. and Mrs. Cornelius P. Watt, in the Immaculate Conception Church, Buifalo, N. Y., on Thanks­giving day also, Nov. 24. 
Mr. and Mrs. John J. M. Gage, La Grange, 111., have announced the mar­riage of their daughter Virginia Elizabeth to MR. JOHN OTTO WEIBLER, '31, Nov. 20. 
PERSONALS 
Before 1880 

The Editor is indebted to JUDGE AND MRS. THOMAS GALLAGHER for a thoughtful Christmas greeting. 
1897 

-A. letter from FATHER MAC­NAMAR.A brings the news of the -A^rmy Game from the viewpoint of one who hasn't missed an jV.rmy game since the series began in 1923. It was Father Mac's 19th, and the effect is evident from his brief description: "And some game—111 saj- it was. The team certainly clicked and went to town that day, and how! But for cold hands (not feet) we w^ould have had three more touchdown.s." 
1903 

JOHN W. DUBBS writes from Mendota with news of the election of ELMER MOHAN, 'IS, of Streator, as states attorney of La Salle County on the Democratic ticket and the ap­pointment of E.A.RLE C. HURLEY, '24, as assistant to Thomas J. Court­ney, states attorney of Cook County. Eaiie was originally a La Salle boy and is a brother of J.A.MES D. HUR­LEY, '24, who is practicing in La-Salle. 
1914 

TWOMEY CLIFFORD, '14, Pros­ecuting Attorney at Camden, Ark., governor of the 13th district of the 
N. D. Alumni Association, addressed the Hope High school football squad at a banquet sponsored by the Ki­wanis club. Twomey usin g the Kiwanis Code of Good Sportsmanship, exemplified its tenets by using ex­amples of the N. D. football teams coached by Rockne, bringing in per­sonal reminiscences of the great coach. Rev. George F. X. Strassner, '14, secretary of the Kiwanis club, and lieutenant governor-elect of Div­ision No. 7 of the Mo-Kan-Ark dis­trict of Kiwanis International, was the toastmaster. The inclement weath­er of the night forced Twomey to remain in Hope. These two class­mates of Rockne reviewed experiences of days at the University and past years, interspersing gossip about fel­low classmates and old friends at school. 
1918 

JOHN M. RA.A.B, who took office as prosecuting attorney of St. Joseph County, Indiana, Jan. 1, has appointed HARRY RICHWINE, '20, who was in school with John and who served overseas in the same outfit with him, as his assistant. SEYMOUR WEIS­BERGER, '26, who also served as deputy prosecutor under the retiring prosecutor, SAMUEL P. SCHWARTZ, '13, will remain as deputy to the new prosecutor. Joh n defeated ED­WARD B. SMITH, '30, former bas­ketball star, in the November elec­tions. A feature in one of the South Bend papers told of the meeting of Raab and Richwine overseas in the postoffice at Le Mans, France, (the birthplace of the Congregation of Holy Cross). They later were in the same outfit until the end of the war when John attended the University of Caen in Normandy and Harry was transferred to post-war duty in the Le Mans area. 
1922 

Word comes to us from Los Angeles that AL SCOTT is no longer Al Scott but is now Judge Scott of the Muni­cipal Court in that city, having re­cently been appointed to fill the un­expired term of his predecessor. Con­gratulations—Judge, and may your decisions be edicts of justice and wisdom. 
JOHN PAUL CULLEN attended the Army game in New York. He enjoyed the spectacle immensely but he was a little disappointed in not meeting more '22 men at the game. John Paul's book Hello Wisconsin has met with wide approval. He promises another book in the spring. 
A model "T" Ford which looked as if it had been driven around the world a couple of times in inclement weath­er was recently stolen while parked in the vicinity of the Furniture Mart in Chicago. Rumor persists that the car belonged to CLETE LYNCH. Police are investigatiing to ascertain why it was stolen. 
CHET WYNNE and RODGE KI­LEY who are doing a joint coaching job at Auburn University in Ala­bama, just missed an undisputed Southern Conference championship. All season long up to the final game with South Carolina, Auburn was un­defeated and untied, but against their final opponent Auburn. weakened or South Carolina strengthened and the contest ended in a draw. The coaches deserve much praise for developing so splendid a team. 
We, of course, are not exactly elated over the fact that our own team lost to Pittsburgh and Southern Cal., but if you think we are down hearted you are sadly mistaken. Our confidence in HUNK ANDERSON is too firmly imbedded to be uprooted by these setbacks, and we confidently ex­pect that the present era of read­justment is the fore-runner of more golden days for N. D. in the football realm under the leadership of Hunk. Eastern football fans are agreed that no Notre Dame team ever showed more class than the present one did against the Army. If the class is still there, we have little need to worrj' for the future with Hunk at the helm, Pittsburgh and Southern Cal. notwithstanding. 
In attendance at the Northwestern game were: DOCTOR DAN SEX­TON, JERRY DIXON, AARON HUGENARD, PAT JLANION, GEORGE HENEGHAN, VINC E PADEN, LEO MAHONEY, CORNIE PFEIFFER, JUDGE CARBERRY, and GENE SMOGOR. 
JIM DOOLEY is getting soft. He was seen enroute to the Army game with a heavy woolen blanket. If we remember correctly Jim was quite a football player in his own right. We demand an explanation—Jim. 
We also demand news of EDDIE ANDERSON, JOHNNY MOHARDT, BOB PHELAN, and EARL WALSH. 
1923 Dear Jim: 
I have been advised by the Roche Advertising Agency, who handle our account in Chicago, that ROBERT 
Q. MURPHY, '26, who worked for them some time, has gone to Albu­querque, New Mexico. Your records will show Mr. Murphy's class and I am ^vriting you so that you may ad­vise his classmates that he is quite sick, although not dangerously ill, so that they may correspond with him at the present time. He, of course, has had to discontinue his work and is down there to try to recuperate. 
I have been a very poor corres­pondent I know, for my class, and I am sorry that I haven't been able to send you more information from time to time 
I spent a very pleasant week-end in Cleveland at tiie time of the Navy game and had a very pleasant time visiting with Mr. and Mrs. RAY MILLER, and also many Notre Dame men including, W.ALTER mL ­LER, HARRY jnLLER, DON MIL­LER, JERRY MILLER. I also saw J.4,CK DE GURSE and JACK CHRISTNER, who is now a doctor and located in Cleveland. I also had a very pleasant ^^sit with JOHN MURPHY, the fonner president of the National Alumni Association, as well as FATHER MORI.A.RITY of Wooster, Ohio and many others. 
Mrs. Castner and I had the pleas­ure of staying with his Honor Mayor Ray Miller and Mrs. Miller, and you can pass the word on to the Notre Dame Alumni that in my humble opinion, Ray Miller is the outstanding mayor in the United States, whose ability as a city executive and astute politician may be exceeded, if pos­sible, only by his and Mrs. Miller's hospitality. 
I have a letter from JOHN FOG­ARTY of the Class of '23 from Havana. He is with the Electrical Equipment Company of Cuba and tells me that he and Mrs. Fogarty e-xpect to be in the United States very shortly. 
John has evidently lost his '23 class pin and wants to know where another can be purchased. 
Paul Castner. 
J. ST-4N BRADBURY not only joined the Democratic landslide but headed the ticket, carrying every precinct in Crawford County, 111. (home town Robinson.) BILL BRAD­BURY, '16, Stan's brother, has won the affection of everyone in the com­munity by his wholehearted, volunteer aid to World War veterans (of whom he is one) in the legal aspects of compensation. These friends seemed to show solidly behind Stan. Stan himself was appointed to the U. S. Naval Academy during the war but the germs got to him before the Ger­mans and pneumonia cut his career short in that field. 
1924 
JOE NORTON and his brother Frank dropped into the Office Dec. 7 for a visit. Joe is probation officer for the wayward minors of Detroit, with offices in the Barium Tower, 1623 to be exact, in Cadillac Square. 
1925 
JIM WRAPE wrote the Registrar that he expected to come to Chicago from Memphis for the Christmas holi­days and wanted to check up the en­ti-ance requirements w^ith a view to having his brother at Notre Dame next Fall. Jim is the first man out­side the imposing firm of Chandler, Shepherd, Owen & Heiskell, Memphis attorneys, offices in the Sterick build­ing there. 
JOHN KELLEY rode the Demo­cratic donkey into the county sur­veyor's job for La Porte County, Ind., the first Democrat to do it for a long time, the report adds. John lives at 124 E. Williams St., Michigan City, Ind., and was connected with the South Shore electric lines before his election. 
BEN RESTING was elected to a similar job, the county surveyorship of Lucas County (Toledo) Ohio. 
PAUL ICOHOUT, who wholesales and retails cut flowers from Liberty-ville, HI., helps that old class secre­tary Scallan with news that he re­turned late in November "from a very enjoyable visit with MIKE NEITZEL and his brother FR.\NCIS, '23, out in Idaho. During the visit, Mike, Frank and I did a little plain and fancy deer and bear hunting with disastrous results to the game suppply of Idaho. I am enclosing a photograph of the two cocky '25ers and one bear, not so cocky ... . Mike and Frank are still on the list of eligible bachelors, but nevertheless are looking hale, hearty, happy and contented. They both promise to visit Notre Dame next year." The picture certainly did make the bear look bad. The Editor was tempted to forward it to HA7.RY McGUIRE for Outdoor Life, but thought of the S. P. C. A. You could tell from looking at Neitzel and Kohout that the bear never had a chance. 
One "IKE" LYNCH, henceforth to 
-
 be known as Mr. thence to Rev. John 

P.
 Lynch, C.S.C, has completed his novitiate and is taking advanced classes in his old haunts at the Uni­versity. Through the brilliant legal mind he has brought to the Order, John recently found opportunity to hold conference with Messrs. JO­SEPH A. HOGAN and GERALD J. A.HOLLAND, who undoubtedly prof­ited from the contact. 


1926 
SIDNEY EDER, who has been dep­uty prosecutor under SAMUEL SCHWARTZ, '13, is retiring from of­fice with his superior and will enter with him the private practice of law in South Bend. 
JIM RONAN, the harrassed presi­dent of the N. D. Club of Chicago, keeps up an active correspondence with the Office despite the depres­sion. Jim has kept things moving there when moving was tough. Simi­larly, DOC GELSON, scribe for the 
N. Y. Club, reports faithfully the up.s and downs of the wolves of Wall and other streets. 
1927 
JOHN Q. CAREY, recently elected president of the Notre Dame Club of Toledo, is also a recently elected member of the Ohio legislature. 
TOMMY GREEN writes from Con-roe, Texas, where he is practicing law with J. N. Powers. Tommy says he saw JOE MAXWELL in Houston, scouting Loyola of New Orleans. JOHN "BULL" POLISKY is coach­ing at Rice. 
BOB BARTL \vrites from La-Crosse, Wis., where the Lacrosse Rub­ber Mills, properties of the Funks, a Notre Dame family, keep him occu­pied. Bob would like to locate BILL HALLORAN, as would the Alumni Office, and OSCAR GARZA. We still have Oscar in- Saltillo, Mexico but nothing to confirm it of recent date. 

Dear Jim: 
Several names never to miss a "campus list" have missed any sort of publcity in your column in the past two years. 
CHET MCDONALD left Chicago flat on its back and returned east and is now putting the Telephone Com­pany on a paying basis in Lowell, Mass. 
TOM DUNN also left Chicago to help bolster the under-dog Irish of Milwaukee and incidentally to accept a promotion to Branch Claim Mana­ger from the Royal Indemnity, %vho were right in their selection, for he has done a great job and earned him­self the title of "No Damage Dunn" in the Milwaukee law circles. Be­sides being one of the few salaried men left Tom has also a diploma from Kent Law, a license from Illinois and Wisconsin Bar -A.ssocations, a Ford coupe and a steady girl. 
DON RYAN has shown that you can "cram" for exams and still get by, he is a credit man for Universal Credit Company of Ford Motor Com­pany in Minneapolis. 
I heard indirectly that HAROLD "DING" McCABE had the terrible misfortune to lose his wife and baby at childbirth last month. 
BILL HALLORAN is "hot stuff" in the stove department of Sears Roebuck wholesale store in Chicago. JIcSWEENEY is in the advertising department at Sears also. 
I am wth the Milwaukee office of the Universal Credit Company and outside the natural enjoyment of steady work my only pleasure in Mil­waukee is reading the morning Chica­go Tribune. 
1 would like to hear from BOB 

SHIELDS —so if you'll be kind 
enough to put him on your free list 
he may write me in care of my com­
pany here. 
Sincerely, 
Joe Reedy. 

P. S. TOM HEARDEN is coaching St. Catherine's High School in Ra­cine, and in his own quiet way has won two Catholic league champion­ships in the past two years. This year his team was undefeated. Some one gave me some recent dope that Tom is wondering if the Log Chapel is ready for business on short notice. However, "it wasn't told to me, I only heard." 
Joe. 
1928 

Old PROF BUCKLEY, wife and daughter, having Christmassed in llishawaka, it is natural that the mail with his notes in it failed to get through. Dog teams and planes ex­pect to locate the Buckleys in time to have the old professor back in the economics department by the opening of school. -And the February ALUM­NUS ought to carrj.' a list of the '28 Christmas cards he received, at least. 
1929 

JOSEPH P. McNAMARA has been made deputy attorney general for the state of Indiana by the new attorney-general. Joe was active in the recent campaign, and is recognized as one of the most brilliant of the young Dem­ocrats, serving as president of their state organization. 
E. E. MOYER is with the power rectifier engineering department of the General Electric Co., Schenectady, 
N. Y. STEPHEN A. DURBIN, was transferred in May from the testing department to the air conditioning engineering department of the same company in Schenectady. 
JOSEPH G. O'BRYAN wrote from Hepler, Kansas recently. Joe says the only N. D. fellows he sees regu­larly are JIM BRAY and CHARLIE MEYER of Kansas City, who come to Joe's ranch for some hunting every fall. Joe expected to see BUD GEB­ERT and JOE LOCKE the week-end of the Wichita game with the Pitts­burg teachers. 
1930 Dear Jim: 
Among the fellows in town for the Army game were D.AN BARTON, JIM 1VLA.LL0Y, FRANK O'MARAH, AL HOWARD, JIM DILLEY, FRANCIS FINNEGAN, WARREN FOGEL, JOE FRIEL, TOM LEA­HEY, LEON ZABRISKIE, JERRY CROWLEY, '29. JOE MORREL, '29, HARRY SYLVESTER, TIM TOOM­EY, CHARLEY POWERS, '31, JOHN MC MANMON, '27, DON JHLLER, '25, and numerous others. 
JOE DRINANE and TOM LIST­WAN, the Architectural Engineers of our class are around the city. Joe has been building roads in Jersey and Pennsylvania and Tom has been playing football with Newark. 
CLiVRENCE KOZAK is in the midst of everything in Cleveland. 
ED ELLSWORTH has been work­ing on the New York Stock Exchange floor for Goertz & Co. 
BERNIE STETTLER is managing the New York office of the U. S.' Transportation Co. 
TED TWOMEY is coaching the line at Georgia this fall. During the summer he operates Camp Toomey for Boys on Lake Sphene, Fort Fran­cis, Ontario, Canada. From the pic­tures of it one can easily see that It is one of the best and most modem in America. 
JOHNNY O'BRIEN of the Navy is accepting congratulations on the arrival of his first—it's a boy. 
EMIL TELFEL, '31, is keeping up his newspaper contacts in Newark. He and SAL BONTEMPO, '31, also have been making their start in politics. 
ED EUGENE BRENNAN, '31, has been selling bonds in Detroit since he received his M.A. at the U. of Michigan. 
JACK SAUNDERS, '31, is manag­ing the Gordon Supply Co., in New­ark. JACK and BOB MASSEY were at school for the Northwestern game^ 
WILLIAM KARL, '31, has been in Germany where he studied aeronaut­ical engineering at Berlin University. 
BERT MALONEY, '31, is operat­ing a gas station in Chicago. 
HARRY SYLVESTER, '30, made a hit with his "Indifferent Man" in the Cosmopolitan. The story deserves a place with the others which go to build up Notre Dame tradition. 
The fellows in New York are won­dering how CONNIE OCHO-\ is mak­ing out in Mexico. 
MARTY BRILL and TOM MUR­PHY have been playing with Howie Smith's Mt. Vernon team of the East-em League. Marty recently opened two flower stores in Ardmore and Bryn Mawr, Pa. 
The local alumni club held their annual meeting to elect the Nomin­ating Committee on Tuesday, Dec. 20th. The organization from school is having the annual Christmas dance at the Roosevelt on the 27th. They expect a good crowd. 
TOM KENEALLY was in the city with the Rutgers football team when they played Manhattan in a charity contest. Tom is still recuperating from a serious illness, which included appendicitis with various complica­tions. He expects to be back at Rut­gers in January. 
ED ELLSWORTH has moved to 77 Park Ave., Apt. 2F, New York City. 
DR. THOMAS SHEEN, '21, and later a graduate of the medical school at Louvain, has moved in with us. He has his offices in the Medical Bldg. on E. 56th St. He is Rev. Ful­ton Sheen's brother. 
I understand that JIMMY STACK, '26, is returning to Chicago after the first of the year as he has completed his internship in Newark. 
I am leaving for Pittsburgh for this week-end. I hope you have a 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS January 1933 
very happy Christmas and that the New Year brings better days. So long, Bernie Conroy 
EGBERT EIGLEY is teaching at Jordan College, Menominee, Michigan. 
Christmas greetings were received from HENEY FEEY who is in the law office of John J. Fay, 225 Broad­%vay, New York City. 
BILL CHAWGO, 303 Graham Bldg., Aurora, writes: "Ask JOHN CUJIMINGS an d CHARLES F. MONAHAN to answer my letters. I hate to lose track of two such good friends as they. .. . As for BILL O'BRIEN, '31,* if he doesn't write pretty soon I'm going to send him a long telegram collect." 
1931 

Dear Jim: 
Here's just a bit of news on the first depression class—that of 1931— The future Blackstones who are winding up their studies at Notre Dame this year are: FRANK BROWN, BILL DESENBERG, JOE DEEB , JOHN MANLEY, CLEM POWERS, TOM CANNON, ANDY KATA , PHIL KONOP, VINCE PONIC, JOHN SODOSKI, GENE VALLELEE, ART BAXTER, BILL SULLIVAN, MARCHY SCHWARTZ and NOBDY HOFFJLA.N. Then there are a few lawyers practicing in South Bend, CHARLIE KOVACS, ED SMITH, NORM HARTZEE an d JOHN DEGNAN. ED BRENNAN is police-reporting for the South Bend Tribune. HOWARD BEASLEY is with the Federal Match Co. in Kansas City; TOM MONAHAN is in the claim department of the Illinois Traveling Mens Insurance Co., Chi­cago and is rooming with MIKE TEDEES. AUSTIE BOYLE is one of the Fourth Estate with the New Orleans Neivs-Item, BALFE is still in Lakeland Florida doing a column ala O. O. Mclntyre. JACK SAUN­DEES was down for the Northwest­ern game and reports that the laun­dry business is pretty fair in Newark. 
D. D. HALPIN is a proud father of a son now and is managing a pro football team at Newark. 
BERNIE LEAHY and AL CUL­VER did a bit of pro football with the Chicago Shamrocks. JOE THORNTON is in business for him­self in Lowell, Mass. JARLATH SLATTEEY is attending Har\-ard. JOHN ZUBER is with a finance com­pany in Detroit. The talkie business went haywire so JOE VEETACNIK returned home to Saginaw. JOE WILK is teaching the young bloods of his home town the fine points of American history. DUNNIN G SHANLEY and GEOEGE WASSEL are studying medicine at Northwest­ern. Loyola law school claims the attention of EDDIE RYAN. PHIL .4.IRE is -ivith his father in the con­struction business in River Forest, 111. 
BOB NEYDON, MART DOWN­EY, JOE MUNIZZO, JOE SCHROE­DER, DON O'TOOLE and TOMMY OAKES at the Northwestern game but couldn't get any business cards from them so just don't know what they are doing. JIM BORDEAUX is in the meat business with his dad. Last report concerning BILL KAEL was that he was in Munich, Germany. JOE GAVIN is coaching Latin High school in Cleveland. FEANK MC GREAL attends Chicago Law school and works in a law office at 30 La-Salle St. CHAELIE CUSHWA be­came a benedict about a month ago in Chicago. Congratulations! Mr. and Mrs. Cushwa. ED DRAVES is attending Michigan Med school and is whooping it up for the Big Ten Champs. KEN DURBIN and JER­RY CEOWLEY are around South Bend, Jerry is selling paint for his uncle. BAET O'SHEA is doing some freelance w-riting up at lUian, N. Y. AET BERGAN and ED O'BRIEN were very much in evidence at the Army game. TELFEL was there too looking for the players' entrance. 
ROY BAILIE is traveling for the Goodyear Eiibber Co. BOB CUN­NINGHAM is helping JACK ELDEE in the C. Y. O. in Chicago. BILL CHAWGO and ROLLIE POULIN are selling insurance. TIM BENITZ is a contract bridge instructor around South Bend and I am told he has quite a feminine clientele. 
' JOHN MAHONEY is practicing law in Chicago and is doing quite well considering the times. DICK MC SHANE has been laid up for the past two months at home and would appreciate hearing from any of the old boys. GENE VALLEE is man­aging a theater in Fort Wayne. WALT PHILLIP the hot cha man is directing an orchestra in Philly and is doing quite well. RED WELLS is working hard down Paducah way to keep his family going. Congrats to you too Sheridan. 
T-4.ECKENS looked pretty prosper­ous at the Northwestern game, he's working up in Flint. ED SHEC­RAN is managing a finance company in Portland, Oregon. LARRY MUL­LINS' football team at St. Benedicts Just closed a successful season win­ning seven out of nine GEORGE VLK is dowTi at Catholic U. while BEET METZGEE has an interest in the Borden Dairy of Chicago. 
Here's a little dope from TOM ASHE, acting Eastern correspondent Well, here's something about the 
local lads. DOESCHEL peddled ice and drank beer during the summer, and he is now trying to get situated permanently. If things don't break he is going to Miami for the winter where he won't freeze, and if the trees are full of fruit he won't starve. EED MC VEAN is working with the welfare department of the City of Rochester where, it is reported, he is dragging down a larger salary than our mayor. 
LOUIS O'SHEA is trying to inter­est the dentists of Western New York in the advantages of Kolynos tooth­paste over those common brands which have to be used twice a day. aiAET DOWLING is carrying on the traditions of his family with a (posi­tion) in the office of the Atlantic Stamping Company, an outfit which makes a very fine quality of garbage cans and similar receptacles. EED CALLAHAN is now in the employ of 
B. Forman's, Eochester's most famous store for women. He thinks it's swell. JIM KEARNEY is going to Loyola law and doing well. JOE LAUEE­IVIAN, the most successful gent of the class of 1931, is with the Marinette Knitting Mills, a company which is far famed for its excellent quality of sweaters, etc., etc., etc. BOYLE is too busy with the blacks and tans to write, and B-A.LFE is too well pleased with the success that he has had as a newspaper correspondent to associate with common white trash. JOHN HICKEY was at Pitt for the game; he is going to law school there. DICK O'DONNELL is working for his fa­ther in Pitt, or anyway he does not have to pay his board at home. MATTHEW IGNATIUS CULLINAN has some kind of a job with Fox Film where it must be distasteful for him to be in close contact with some of the "climbers" as he calls them, in the movie colony. Matt, on the side, is trying to figure out some way to keep the persecuted Tom Mooney in jail. HENNEBEEGEE, who has re­cently married, is now an official with the Henneberger Ice & Fuel Company in his home town of Mt. Carmel, 111. Where is Paul Grant? 
Well, Jim I hope that this keeps ole '31 in the limelight for a little while now. More later if any of the boys drop me a line. I'm still at 828 
E. Colfax South Bend. Sincerely, John E. Bergan. 
ALPEED C. STEPAN, JE. is with tlie Chemical Distributors, Inc., 5G1 
E. Illinois St., Chicago. 
FRANK HANNABACH -vvrote not long since from 440 Tyler St., Gary. He is -with the American Steel Foun­dry in the Hammond plant. 
BOB SULLIVAN wrote from 1021 Trant St., Norman, Okla., where he is taking petroleum engineering at the 
U. of Oklahoma. His brother, Paul, 
transferred there this year from N. 
D. JACK MULHALL, '32, is on the premses, Boib adds. He missed a rendezvous with JACK WALSH, '30, in Lawrence for the N. D. game. Bob regrets. Walsh was en route to the Pacific coast "loosely disguised as a traveling salesman." Bob saw FRANK CARIDEO on one of those rare but important Saturdays for Frank this fall when his Missouri team absorbed the Carideo skill to take Oklahoma out of a conference championship. 
1932 

If HERB GIORGIO can remember half that he sees and hears during the holidays, he ought to fill several pages with dope when he comes back from the East. With that assumption, we shall bring the current columns to a regretted close. 
Debaters Win Opener 

Notre Dame scored a significant win in its opening debate when a var­sity team composed of William Kirby, a junior lawyer, and Joseph Becek, Arts sophomore, defeated a Purdue team at Purdue on government own­ership of hydro-electric power plants. Notre Dame upheld the affirmative. The audience consisted of some 500 Indiana high school debaters and their coaches and the debate itself was in the nature of a clinic for their benefit. Prof. William Coyne of Notre Dame and Professor Winch coach of Purdue outlined the methods of their respective teams following the de­cision. 

ADDITIONAL SPORTS 
Baseball 

In baseball, Notre Dame's fine pitcher's, Capt. Charlie Palt, Ed Lag­ger, and Charles Mannix, were handi­capped by poor fielding, and Coach Keogan was handicapped by injuries, ineligibility, and a team batting slump The bad news is that Notre Dame suffered its first losing season since 1905 and the fifth in the history of the university. At that the record was only six defeats against a tie and five victories. Final \nctories over Western State and Michigan State who had previously defeated Notre Dame, showed that Notre Dame has the power to come back in all sports. 

Tennis 

The tennis team won four matches and lost five, which is not a poor showing, considering the fact that there is no opportunity for indoor practice at Notre Dame. The pro­posed Rockne Memorial field house will take care of this need, and then we can expect the winning habits of the other Irish athletic squads to be carried to the courts. 








DIX REUNIONS 
JUNE 2, 3, and A, 1933 
CLASS SECRETARIES NOTE! CLASS MEJIBERS NOTE! 
MAKE YOUR PLANS ACCORDINGLY! 
r/ie line of years at the tap margin dcsiijiiates the years in which reunions arc held. The column 
of figures doaii the left margin desijmates the dass year or year of graduatiem. 
1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 1939 1940 1941 1942 1943 1944 X939 1939 1938 1938 1937 1937 1936 1936 1935 1935 1934 1934 1933 1933 1932 1932 1932 
1931 1931 1931 
1930 1930 1930 1929 1929 1929 1929 1928 1928 1928 
1928 
1927 

1927 1927 1926 
1926 1926 1926 
1925 

1925 1925 1925 
1924 

1924 1924 1924 
1923 

1923 1923 1923 
1922 

1922 1922 1922 
1921 

1921 1921 1921 
1920 

1920 1920 1920 
1919 

1919 1919 1919 
1918 

1918 1918 1918 1918 
1917 

1917 1917 1917 1917 
1916 

1916 1916 1916 
1915 

1915 1915 
1914 

1914 1914 1914 
1913 

1913 1913 1913 
1912 

1912 1912 1912 
1911 

1911 1911 
1910 

1910 1910 1910 
1909 

1909 1909 1909 
190S 

1908 1908 1908 
1907 

1907 1907 1907 
1906 

1906 1906 1906 
1905 

1905 1905 1905 
1904 

1904 1904 1904 
1903 

1903 1903 1903 
1902 1901 

1902 1902 1902 1900 
1901 1901 1901 1899 
1900 1900 1900 1S98 
1899 1899 1899 1897 
1898 1898 1898 1896 
1897 1897 1895 
1896 1896 1894 
1895 1895 1893 1894 1894 1894 1892 1893 1893 1893 1891 1892 1892 1892 
1890 1891 1891 1889 1890 1890 1890 1888 1889 1889 18S9 
1SS7 1888 1888 1888 1888 1SS6 1887 1887 1887 1887 1SS5 1886 1886 1886 1886 1884 1SS5 1885 1885 1S85 1SS3 1884 1884 1884 1882 1883 1SS3 1883 1883 1881 1882 1882 1882 1880 ISSl 1881 1881 1879 1880 1880 1880 1878 1879 1879 1879 
1878 1878 
LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF AKRON—Glen Smith. '27. 104 Oakdale Ave., Akron. President: C. J. McGuckin. '28. Medina Road. Akron. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D. Barry. '97. 82 W. Pennington St.. Tucson. President; Steve Rebeil. '25. 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F. X. Strassner. '14. Hope. President: Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C.. '02, Dac­ca. President: Rev. J. J. Henessey. C.S.C., Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Charles Crowley, '21, 40 Mill St.. Dor­chester. Mass. President: James R. Doo­ley. '22. 3GS Main SL. North Andover, Mass.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy. '27, 8G Liberty SU Bridgeport, Conn, (temporary chairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Paul D. Hoefller. '25. SSO Woodw.ird Ave., BufTalo, President; Edmund J. Lutz. Jr.. '24. 91 Beard Ave.. BufTiUo. Secretar>'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. '23. 55521 Vine Ave.. Harvey. Illinois. President: William R. Dooley. "26. 211 ­157th St.. Calumet City, Illinois, Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP THE CAPITOL DISTRICT—John J. Meighan. President: 
F. L. Duquette. '28. 1074 Glenwood Blvd.. Schenectady. N. Y.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— James Ronan. '26. 4306 W. North Ave.. Chicago. President: Mr. Robert D. Stephan. '27, 6^41 Lakewood, Chicago. Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert Hughes. '29. 3565 Burch Ave.. President: W. D. Morrissey. '26. Cath­olic Charities Bureau. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —^Thomas F. Byrne. '28, 750 Huron Rd.. President: Clayton G. Lerou-T, 3356 Daleford Road. Heights Branch. Cleve­land, Secretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran­ficld. '13. State Bldg.. 1200 Main Street. Springfield. Mass.. President; James A. Curry. '14. 647 Main St., Hartford. Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—James P. Swift. '24. 422 Inter­urban Bldg.. Dallas. President; Francis 
A. McCullough. 'uO. Dallas. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON — Robert Ohmer. Dayton. President: An­drew A. Aman. Jr.. '30, 210 Lexington Ave., Dayton, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey. '28. 1515 Grant St., Presi­dent: O. L. Hough, '27, 1575 Race St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22, Des Moines Catholic College. President; Charles H. Lynch. 
•28. 1429 - 13th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT — John E. Moore. '08. Third Floor. Genera] Motors Bldg.. Detroit. Mich., President; Paul J. Dooley. '25, 148 Pallister. Detroit, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUJIBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. El. '12. IBII R, I. Ave.. N. W., Washington, President; James D. Hayes. 5115 Eighth St., N. W., Washington, Secretary-
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE. PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17. Erie Daily Times. President; Thomas Barber. '24. 416 Newman St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE —Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman, '30, Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Office. City Hall, Green Bay, Wis.. Presi­dent ; Levi A. Geniesse. '24. 510 Minahan Bids.. Green Bay, Wis., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH.—George E. Ludwig. '25. 328 Glenhaven Ave.. N. W.. President: Ray­mond J. Bonini. '27. 2460 Oakwood Dr.. 
S. E.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON. OHIO—M. O. Bums. '86. 338 S. Second St.. President: Marc A. Fiehrer, '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary* 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew. '15. 225 Qeveland Ave.. Iron Mountain. Mich.. President: Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Teri-acG Ave.. Marinette, \Vis.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter, "14, 1702 Stuart Ave.. Houston. Texas. President; T- F. Green. Jr.. '27, Conroe, Te."cas, Secretar>'­Trc3surer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Merid­ian, Indianapolis. President; John T. Rocap, '30, Fidelity Trust Bldg., In­dianapolis. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Wil­liam Bossingham. '25. 408 Buell St.. Jolict. HI., President: Ed King. 301 Ruby St.. Joliet. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley. '23. 25 Wint Ave., Pt-Leavenworth. Kansas, President: John SL Dugan. '27, 4427 Tracy St., Kansas City. Mo., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gebcrt. '30, U. of Kansas. Wich­ita, President; Dan Welchons, '30. 306 
E. 13th St., Hutchinson. Kansas. Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KENTUCKY— 
H. R. Dempf. '23, 400 M. E. Taylor Bldg., Louisville. President: Wm. A. Reisert, "30, 2102 Cherokee Pkwy.. Louis­ville, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —^^Villiam B. Chawgo. '31, Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., 303 Graham Bldg., Aurora. 111., Secretary pro tem. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LAFORTE. INDIANA—A. Gordon T.nylor. '18. 1607 Indiana Ave.. Laporte. President; Nor­man Duke. '33. 304 Niles St.. Laporte. Secretarj'. 
NOTRE D.AME CLUB OF LOS AN­GELES—John W. Wadden. '07. 6230 Maryland Drive. President: Laurence A. Moore. '29, 1466 W. 50th St.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAliIE CLUB OF LOUISIANA­MISSISSIPPI—P. E. Burke. '88. 307 Camp St.. New Orleans, President; Cyp­rian A. Sporl. Jr., '28. Whitney-Central Bldg., New Orleans, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zobel, '24. c/o Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila, President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MEMPHIS— Hugh Magevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave.. President. 
NOTRE DAJtE CLUB OF MILWAUKEE —William J. Redden, '14, 352S W. North Ave., Milwaukee. President: Charles O'Neil. '27, 607 W. Walnut St., Mil­waukee, Secretarj-. 
NOTBE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen, '96, 435 Clark St.. Helena, President; James B. O'Flynn. '11, Great Falls, MonL, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Williams. Jr.. '29. 106 Gal­latin Rd.. Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBR,\SKA— Gerald J. Barret. '22, 315 S. 37th St., Omaha. Secretao*­
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW JERSEY William Carter. '27, 68 Fourth St.. South Orange. N. J., President: Joseph Nulty. '27. 1056 Arlington Ave.. Flainfield. N. J., Secretary-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK—John E. Kenney. '21. care Poster "VVhecIer Corp.. 365 Broadway, New^ York Citj-, President: J. Norbert Gelson, '26. 1201 Troy Ave., Brookljn, 
N. Y., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA — John S. Mclnnes. '22. 1855 Sacramento Street, San Francisco, President; Mark Kreutzer, '24, 311 Cali­fornia St., San Francisco, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. O'Neil. 'S3. Army Recruiting Station. Second and Washington Sts., Portland. President: L. Bernard Macnab. "25, Terminal Sales Bldg., Portland, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CENTRAL OHIO—Raj-mond J. Eichenlaub, '15, Hoster Realty Bldg., Columbus, Presi­dent. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea, o. s.. '09, 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank, Tulsa. President: Leo A. Schumacher. '13, King Wood Oil Co., Okmulgee, Secretary. • 
NOTRE D.4ME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats: Louis P. Harl, 
•16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHIA—Robert P.eaBan. '24. 502 Cecil St.. Canonsburg. Pa., President: Harrj- H. Francis, Jr., '33, 15 Spring Ave., -\rd­more. Pa., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DASIB CLUB OF PEORIA. ILL. —Dr. Joseph F. Duane. '99. 418 Jeffer­son Bldg.. President; John .\. Noppen­berger. 223 Heading Ave.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —^Thomas Ashe, '31, 226 Glen EUj-n Waj-. Rochester, President: Raj-mond D. Downs, '26, 46 Clinton Ave., S., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RTVER VALLEY—Sherwood Dixon. '20, 120 E. First St.. Dixon. HI., President; J. Wil­lard Jones. '25, 122 Crawford Ave.. Dixon. HI., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST. JO­SEPH VALLEY—Edward J. Mechan. '20. South Bend Tribune. South Bend. Ind.. President: Timothy Benitz. '31,1341 
E. Wayne. N., South Bend, Ind.. Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo SutliSe, '24, 2701 So. Grand, Presi­dent: Robert Hellrung, '30, 7214 North­,moor Drive, University City, Mo., Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

List of Class Secretaries 
Local Alumni Clubs 
(Continued) 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITY— Vincent F. HarrinRton. '25. Continental Mortgage Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW YORK—George 
L. Kinney. "20, I9I9 S. State St.. Syra­
cuse, President: Vincent Brown, *23, IS14 James St.. Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEXAS—Harold Tynan. '27, 240 
E. HuLsacke Ave., San Antonio, Texas, President: Kirwin J. Williams. '28, 105 
E. Rosewood. San Antonio, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt. 'H, 260 Melmore St., President: Fred J. Wagner, '29. 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO—Mr. John Q. Carey. '27. 2514 Chase St.. Toledo. President; Fred A. Sprcnger. :(12y Kimball Ave., Toledo, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CITIES—Richard B. Swift, '20. Kohl BIdg., Davenport. la.. President; Henry 
M. McCulIouKh, '20, 26 McCullough Bids:., Davenport, la.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CI­TIES—Allen H. Mahar, '28, 63 Arch St, Johnson City, New York, President; John D. O'Loughlin, 'o.s.. 24. 506-7 People's Trust Company BIdg., Bing­hamton, N. Y.. Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— John J. Doyle. '28. 414 2nd Ave.. S.. Minneapolis. Minn.. President; Robert Fogerty. '2S. College of St. Thom;s, St. Paul, Minn., Sccrctar>-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Raj-­n»nd R. Brady, '24, 206 Keams Bldg.. Salt Lake City, President: Cyril Har­becke, '19. 64 F. St., Salt Lake City, Sec 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette, Ind.. President: Peter Vogt, Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Leo R. Mdntyre, '28. Bethlehem, Pa., Temporary Chair­man : Charles B. McDermott, '27. Allen­town. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLV.VNIA-John C. Shcedy. '28. 5540 Bryant St.. Pittsburgh. President: John B. Reardon. '22, "15 Union Bank BIdg., Pittsburgh, Secretar>'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Clarence Shannon, 
o.s. '02: Stimson BIdg.. Seattle, Wash.. President: E. Morris Starrett, '14-'21. El. '23, 801 Washington St.. Port Town­send, Wash., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —George A. Gallney. '9S-'99. 54 Park PI.. Waterbury, Conn.. President: James 
M. Monnghan. '27. 44 Ayer St., Water­bury, Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WHEELING, 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11, Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co., Wheeling, Presi­dent: George Snrgus, '28, 2111 Belmont, Bellairc, Ohio, Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Acnes Alma. O. P., Mt. St. Mar>--on-the-Hudson, Newburgh, New York, President: Miss Rose Stef­faniak, 161 Walnut St.. Coldwater. Mich.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr.. '25. 1018 First National Bank. President: Norman Smith, '24, 126 Roslj-n Dr., Secretary. 
Year Name 
Before I8S0 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher 1880-85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson 1886 Michael O. Bums 1887 Hon. Warren A. Carticr 1888 John L. Heineman 
1889 P. E. Burke 
1890-93 Louis P. Chute 
1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell 
1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 
189S William P. Bums 
1897 Rev. John MacNamara 
1898 Wm. C. Kegler 
1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 
1900 John W. Eggcman 
1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 
1902 C. C. Mitchell 1903 Francis P. Burke 1904 Robert Proctor 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 1906 Thomas A. Lally 1907 T. Paul McGannon 190S Frank X. Cull 1909 E. P. Cleary 1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1911 Fred L. Steers 1912 B. J. Kaiser 1913 James R. Devitt 1914 Frank H. Hayes 
1915 James E. Sanford 1916 Timothy P. Galvin 
1917 John U. Riley 1918 John A. Lenuner 1919 Clarence Bader 
1920 Leo B. Ward 
1921 Aldcn J. Cusick 
1922 Gerald Ashe 
1923 Paul Castner 
1924 James F. Hayes 
1925 John W. Scallan 
1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 
1927 Edmund DeClercq 
1928 Louis Buckley 
1929 Joseph McNamara 
1930 Bernard W. Conroy 1931 John E. Boland 
1932 Herbert Giorgio 
Address 
Filchburff, Mass. 
Cirdeville. Ohio 338 S. Second St, Hamilton, Ohio 
Ludington, Michigan 
Connersville, Indiana 301 Camp St, New Orleans, La. 7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota The New Y"ork Tunes, New York City 860 Phelan BIdg.. San Francisco. Calif. 327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City. Indiana 16 Elm St.. Garden City. L. I.. New York. 9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati, Ohio. 418 JeHerson BIdg., Peoria, Illinois 
1201 First National Bank Bids., Fort Wayne, Ind. 
1300. 139 N. Oark St. Chicago, Illinois 110 S. Dearborn St, Box 3. Chicago, III. 904 Trust Company BIdg., Milwaukee, Wisconsin Monger BIdg., Elkhart, Indiana 10 S. LaSalle St. Chicago, Illinois 811-13 Paulsen BIdff.. Spokane, Washington 
Bar BIdg.. 36 W. 44th St, New York City 
Buckley Bids.. Clevclan'd. Ohio 
P. O. Box S56. Momence, Illinois 527 Beall Ave.. Wooster, Ohio 1635 First National Bank BIdg., Chicago, Illinois 324 Fourth St , Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 921 Engineers BIdg., Cleveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave., Chicago, Illinois 1033 S. Linden Ave.. Highland Park. III. 708 First Trust BIdg., Hammond. Indiana Box 86. Cohosset. Slass. 1110 - 8th Ave., S., Escanaba, Michigan 650 Pierce St., Gary. Indiana 1012 Black BIdg,. Los Angeles, California 1 Park Ave., New York City 1024 Monroe Ave.. Rochester. New York 313 Napoleon Blvd., South Bend. Indiana Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State BIdg.. N. Y. City Pullman Co., 79 E. Adams St. Chicago. HI. 38 N. I2th St. Newark, New Jersey 8126 Drexel Blvd.. Chicago. Illinois 718 E. Corby St. South Bend. Indiana 231 Wisconsin St. Indianapolis, Indiana 1055 Park Ave., New York Citj­3624 Chestnut St , Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Notre D.ime. Indiana. 

District Governors 
District Natnc 
I Frank E. Hering 

II John W. Coslello III John P. Murphy IV William J. Redden 
V Don P. O'Kecfc VI John H. Necson VII Ambrose O'ConncU VIII Gerald A. Ashe IX Hon. Wm. J. Granfield X Hilton Goodwyn XI Harry Mehre 
XII W. N. Bosler Xn i Twomey ClifTord XIV Arthur T. Simpson 
XV John L. Corley XVI Walter Duncan XVII Hon. Albert J. Galen XVIII RaiTnond M. Humphreys XIX Terence B. Cosgrove XX Dr. J. M. Toner XXI Emmett Lenihan 
XXII C. C. Fitzgerald 
Address 
Dc.-m BIdg.. South Bend. Ind. 57 E. 21st St. Chicago, 111. Terminal Tower. Cleveland, Ohio. 3525 West North Ave.. Milwaukee, Wis. Chev. Motor Co.. Generjil Motors BIdg.. Detroit Mich. City Hall Annex. Philadelphia, Pa. 1600 Broadway. New York City. 1024 Monroe Ave.. Rochester, New York. 1200 Main St, Springfield, Mass. 2110 East Grace St. Richmond. Va. University of Georgia. Athens, Ga. 1001 Heybum BIdg.. Louisville. Ky. Camden. Arkansas 208 Southwestern Life BIdg.. Dallas. Texas. 4463 Lindell. S t Louis. Missouri. 658 First St. La Salle. III. 435 Oarfc St. Helena. Mont. 1423 Race St. Denver. Colo. Los Angeles .\thletic Club. Los Angeles. Calif. 3197 Sixteenth St.. San Francisco. Calif. County-City BIdg.. Seattle, Wash. La Mctropolitana. 242. Havana. Cuba. 


I realitf dmtt know skonldsin^ke... 
.. . but my brothers and my sweet­heart smoke, and it does give me a lot of pleasure. 
AVomeii began to smoke, so tliey tell me, just about the time they began to vote, but tliat's hardly a reason for w-omcn smoking. 1 guess I just like to smoke, that's all. 
It so happens tliat I smoke CHESTER­
FIELD. They seem to be milder and 
tliey have a very pleasing taste. 
me Ciga/retfe tkat Jastes Jjeiter 
O 1933, IJGOETT H MYERS TOBACCO CO . 



