The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 
^-^— TTrnTrrr 
VP^ 
This book •; 
Cleben 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS February 1933 




LOCAL ALUMNI CLUBS 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP AKRON—Glen Smith, "27. 104 Oakdalc Ave.. Akron. President: C. .1. McGackin. '28. Medina Road. Akron. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARIZONA— James D. Barrj-. '97. S2 W. Pennington St., Tucson. President: Steve Rebeil. '25, 620 N. Sixth St.. Tucson, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ARKANSAS— Rev. Geo. F, -X. Strassner, '14, Hope. President; Burt L. Roberts. 1325 Lincoln Ave., Little Rock, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BENGAL—Rt. Rev. Timothy Crowley. C.S.C., '02, Dac­ca, President: Rev. J. J. Henessey. CS.C, Dacca. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON — Charles Crowley, '21. 40 Mill St.. Dor­chester. Mass. President: James R. Doo­ley, '22. 363 Main St., North Andover, Mass., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BRIDGEPORT —John M. Murphy. '27. 86 Liberty St.. Bridgeport. Conn, (temporary chairman). 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BUFFALO— Paul D. Hoelller. '25. 880 Woodward Ave.. Buffalo. President: Edmund J. Lutz. Jr.. '24. 91 Beard Ave.. Buffalo. Secretarj'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CALU­MET DISTRICT—William L. Voss. Jr.. '23, 55521 Vine Ave., Har\-ey, Illinois, President: William R. Dooley, '26, 211— 157th St., Calumet Cit>-, Illinois. Secre­tary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CAPITOL DISTRICT—John J. MeiKhan. President: 
F. L. Duquette. '28. 1074 Glenwood Blvd.. Schenectady. N. Y.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO— James Ronan. '26. 4306 "W. North Ave.. GhicaEO. President: Mr, Robert D. Stephan. '27. 6441 Lakewood, Chicago, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CINCINNATI —Robert Hushes, '29, 3565 Burch Ave., President; W. D. Morrissey, '26, Cath­olic Charities Bureau, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CLEVELAND —^Thomas F. Byrne, '28, 750 Huron Rd.. President: Clayton G. Leroux, 3356 Daleford Road, Heights Branch, Qeve­land, Secretaray. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE CON­NECTICUT VALLEY—William J. Gran-field, '13, State Bldg., 1200 Main Street, Springfield, Mass.. President: James A. Curry. '14. 647 Main St.. Hartford. Conn., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DALLAS. TEXAS—J.-unes P. Swift. '24. 422 Inter­urban BIdg.. Dallas. President: Francis 
A. McCullough. '30. Dallas. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OP DAYTON — Robert Ohmer. Dayton. President: An­drew A. Aman. Jr.. '30. 210 Lexington Ave.. Dayton, Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DENVER— David Hickey, '28, 1515 Grant St., Presi­dent: O. L. Hough, '27. 1576 Race St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DES MOINES —Earl Walsh. '22. Des Moines Catholic College. President; Charles H. Lynch. '28. 1429 - 13th St.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DETROIT — John E. Moore. '08. Third Floor, General Motors Bids..- Detroit, Mich., President: Paul J. Dooley, '25. 148 Pallister. Detroit. Secretar>'. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DISTRICT OF COLUilBIA—Dr. J. A. Flynn. El. '12. 1611 R. L Ave., N. W„ Washington, President: James D. Hayes, 5115 Eighth St., N. W., Washington. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ERIE. PA.— Richard D. Daley. '17. Erie Daily Times. President; Thomas Barber, '24. 416 Newman St., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE -Frank J. Gilmartin. '01. 336 W. Wool-and Ave.. President: Robert Eggeman. 
.'30. Old First Bank Bldg.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GREEN BAY —Harold L. Londo. '24. City Engineers' Office. City Hall, Green Bay, Wis., Presi­dent; Levi A. Genicsse, '24, 510 Minahan Bldg., Green Bay, Wis.. Secretao', 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF GRAND RAP­IDS. MICH.—George E. Ludwig. '26. 328 Glenhaven Ave., N. W.. President: Ray­mond J. Bonini. '27, 2460 Oakwood Dr„ 
S. E., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF HAMILTON, OHIO—M. O. Bums, '86. 338 S. Second St.. President: Marc A. Fiehrer. '27, 701 Rentschler Bldg., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP HIAWATHA­LAND—Norman Bartholomew, '15, 225 Oeveland Ave., Iron Mountain, Mich.. President; Michael S. Corry. '27. 837 Terrace Ave.. Marinette. Wis.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP HOUSTON— 
M. E. Walter. '14. 1702 Stuart Ave.. Hotiston. Texas. President; T. P. Green. Jr.. '27, Conroe, Texas, Secretarj-­Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAP­OLIS—Robert Kirby. '29. 1901 N. Merid­ian. Indianapolis. President: John T. Rocap. '30, Fidelity Trust Bldg.. In­dianapolis. Secretary, 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF JOLIET—Wil­liam Bossingham. '25. 408 Buell St.. Jolict. HI., President; Ed King, 301 Ruby St., Joliet. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS CITY —Daniel F. Foley, '23, 25 Wint Ave, Ft. Leavenworth. Kansas. President; John 
M. Dugan. '27. 4427 Tracy St.. Kansas City. Mo.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANSAS—Al­bert J. Gsbert, '30, U. of Kansas, Wich­ita, President; Dan Wclchons, '30. 306 
E. 13th St.. Hutchinson. Kansas, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP KENTUCKY— 
H. R. Dempf. '23, 400 M. E. Taylor Bldg.. Louisville. President: Wm. A. Reisert. '30, 2102 Cherokee Pkvvy.. Louis­ville. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF KANE COUNTY —^^Villiam B. Ghawgo. '31, Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., 303 Graham Bldg,, Aurora, 111., Secretary pro tern. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OP lAPORTE, INDIANA—iV. Gordon Taylor. '18, 1507 Indiana Ave., Laporto, President: Nor­man Duke, '33, 304 Niles St., Laporte, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAJtE CLUB OF LOS AN­GELES—John W. Wadden, '07, 414 As­sociated Realty Bldg., President: Laur­ence A. Moore, '29, 1466 W. 50th St., Secretarj-. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LOUISIANA­jnSSISSIPPI-P. E. Burke. '88, 307 Camp St,, New Orleans, President: Cyp­rian A. Sporl, Jr., '28, Whitney-Central Bldg,. New Orleans. Secretary, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MANILA—Al­fonso Zohel, '24, c/o Ayala & Cia, 21 Calle Juan Luna, Manila, President. 
NOTRE DAHE CLUB OF MEMPHIS— 
- Hush Magevney, Jr., 1878 Union Ave., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP MILWAUKEE —William J. Redden, '14, 3526 W. North Ave,, Milwaukee, President: Charles O'Neil, '27. 607 W. Walnut St. Mil­waukee, Secretarj*. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MONTANA— Hon. Albert J. Galen, '96. 435 Qark St.. Helena, President: James B, O'Flynn, '11, Great Falls. Mont.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NASHVILLE —Robert P. Williams. Jr.. '29. 106 Gal­latin Rd.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEBRASICA— Gerald J. Barret. '22. 315 S. 37th St.. Omaha. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP NEW JERSEY William Carter, '27, 68 Fourth St,, South Orange. N. J.. President: Joseph Nulty. '27, 1056 Arlington Ave,, Plainfield, N, J., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP THE CITY OF NEW YORK-John E. Kenney, '21, care Foster MHieeler Corp., 165 Broadway, New York City, President: J. Norbert Gelson, '26, 1201 Troy Ave., Brooklyn. 
N. Y„ Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NORTHERN CALIFORNIA — John S. Mclnncs, '22. 1855 Sacramento Street. San Francisco, President; Mark Kreutzer, '24, 311 Cali­fornia St., San Francisco, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OREGON—Gen­eral J. P. O'Neil, '83, Army Recruiting Station. Second and Washington Sts., Portland, President; L. Bernard Macnab,. '25, Terminal Sales Bldg,, Portland, Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OP CENTRAL OHIO—Raymond J. Eichenhiub, '15, Hoster Realty Bldg., Columbus. Presi­dent, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF OKLAHOMA— Thomas F. Shea, o. s., '09, 902 Ex­change Natl. Bank, Tulsa, President: Leo A. Schumacher, '13, King Wood Oil Co,, Okmulgee, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PARIS—Hold­ers of Permanent Seats; Louis P. Harl, '16, Paris Office, N. Y. Herald. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADEL­PHLA—Robert Pwoagan, "24. 502 Cecil St.. Canonsburg, Pa., President: Harry H. Francis, Jr„ '30, 15 Spring Ave., Ard­more. Pa., Secretarj*, 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PEORLA, ILL, —Dr. Joseph F. Duane, '99. 418 Jeffer­son Bldg.. President; John A. Noppen­berger, 223 Heading Ave,, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCHESTER —Thomas Ashe, '31, 226 Glen EUyn Way, Rochester, President: Raj-mond D. Downs. 
•26. 46 ainton Ave., S., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ROCK RIVER VALLEY—Sherwood Dixon, '20, 120 E, ' First St.. Dixon, Dl., President; J, Wil­lard Jones, '25, 122 Crawford Ave., 
' Dixon, III,, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE ST, JO­SEPH VALLEY—Edward J, Meehan, '20, South Bend Tribune, South Bend. Ind„ President; Timothy Beniti, '31,1341 E, Waj-nc, N., South Bend, Ind., Sec'y. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF ST. LOUIS— Leo SuUiffe, '24, 2701 So. Grand. Presi­dent; Robert Hellrung. '30, 7214 North-moor Drive. University City, Mo., Secy. 
(Continued on next page) 

February 19SS 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
List of Class Secretaries 
Local A lumni Clubs 
(Continued) 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SIOUX CITV— Vincent F. Harrington, '25, Continental Mortgage Co., President. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SYRACUSE AND CENTRAL NEW It ORK—George 
L. Kinney. '20, 1919 S. State St., Syra­

cuse, President: Vincent Brown, '23, 181-1 James St., Syracuse, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF SOUTHWEST­ERN TEXAS—Harold Tynan, '27, 240 
E. Huisaclve Ave., San Antonio; Texas, President: Kirwin. J. Williams, '28, 105 
E. Rosewood, S.tn Antonio, Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TIFFIN, OHIO —C. J. Schmidt, '11, 260 Melmore St.. President: Fred J. Wagner. '29, 152 Sycamore St., Secretary. 
NOTRE D.\ME CLUB OF TOLEDO—Mr. John Q. Carey. '27. 2514 Chase St.. Toledo. President: Fred A. Sprenger, 3129 Kimball Ave., Toledo. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF THE TRI­CITIES—Richard B. Swift, '20, Kohl Bids., Davenport, la.. President: Henry 
M. McCullough, '20, 26 McCullough BIdg., Davenport, la.. Secretary. 

NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TRIPLE CI­TIES—Allen H. Mahar, '28. 53 Arch St., Johnson City, New York. President: John D. O'Loughlin. '0.8.. 24, 60S-7 People's Trust Company BIdg.. Bing­hamton. N. Y., Secretary. 
TWIN CITIES NOTRE DAME CLUB— John J. Doylc. '28, 414 2nd Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn.. President: Robert Fogerty, '28, College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF UTAH—Ray­mond R. Brady. '24, 206 Keams Bldg., Salt Lake City. President: Cyril Har­beeke, '19, 64 P. St., Salt Lake City, Sec 
NOTRE DAJIE CLUB OF THE WABASH VALLEY—Noble Kizer, '25, Purdue Uni­versity, Lafayette. Ind.. President: Peter Vogt. Secretary-Treasurer. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF EASTERN PENNSYLVANIA—Leo R. Mclntyre, '28, Bethlehem, Pa., Temporary Chair­man: Charles B. McDermott, '27, Allen­town, Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA—John C. Sheedy. '28. 5540 Bryant St.. Pittsburgh. President: John B. Reardon, '22, 715 Union Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh. Secretjiry. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WESTERN WASHINGTON—Dr. Qarence Shannon, 
o.s. '02: Stimson Bldg.. Seattle, Wash., President: E. Morris Starrett. '14-'21. El. '23. 801 Washington St., Port Town­send, Wash., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WATERBURY —George A. Gaflney, '98-'99, 54 Park PI.. Waterbury. Conn.. President: James 
M. Monaghan. '27. 44 Ayer St.. Water­bury, Conn.. Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WaiEELING. 
W. VA.—Thomas F. Howley. '11. Citi­zens-Peoples Trust Co.. Wheeling. Presi­dent: George Sargus. '28. 2111 Belmont, Bellairc, Ohio, Secretary. 
THE WOMEN'S CLUB OF NOTRE DAME—Sister M. Agnes Alma. O. P., Mt. St. Mary-on-the-Hudson. Newburgh. New York. President: Miss Rose Stef­faniak, 161 Walnut St.. Coldwatcr, Mich., Secretary. 
NOTRE DAME CLUB OF YOUNGS-TOWN—John J. Kane. Jr.. '25. 1018 First National Bank. President: Norman Smith. '24. 126 Roslyn Dr.. Secretary. 
rear Navte 
Before 1880 Hon. Thos. F. Gallagher 1880-85 Prof. Robert M. Anderson 1886 Michael O. Bums 1887 Hon. Warren A. Cartier 1888 John L. Heineman 1889 P. E. Burke 1890-93 Louis P. Chute 1894 Hugh A. O'Donnell 1895 Eustace Cullinan. Sr. 1896 William P. Bums 1897 Rev. John MacNamara 1898 Wm. C. Kcgler 1899 Dr. Joseph F. Duane 1900 John W. Eggeman 1901 Joseph J. Sullivan 1902 C. C. Mitchell 1903 Francis P. Burke 1904 Robert Proctor 1905 Daniel J. O'Connor 1906 Thomas A. Lally 1907 T. Paul McGannon 1908 Frank X. Cull 1909 E. P. CIcary 1910 Rev. M. L. Moriarty 1911 Fred L. Steers 1912 B. J. Kaiser 1913 James R. Devitt 1914 Frank H. Hayes 
1915 James E. Sanford 1916 Timothy P. Galvin 1917 Edward J. McOsker, 1918 John A. Lenuner 1919 Clarence Badcr 1920 Leo B. Ward 1921 Alden J. Cusick 1922 Gerald Ashe 1923 Paul Castner 1924 James F. Hayes 1925 John W. Scallan 1926 Dr. Gerald W. Hayes 1927 Edmund DeClercq 1928 Louis Buckley 1929 Joseph McNamara 1930 Bernard W. Conroy 1931 John E. Boland 1932 Herbert Glorslo 
Address 

Fitchburg, Mass. 
Cirdeville. Ohio 
338 S. Second St.. Hamilton. Ohio 
Ludington, Michigan 
Connersville. Indiana 
301 Camp St.. New Orleans. La. 
7 University Ave.. Minneapolis, Minnesota 
The New York Times, New York City 
860 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Calif. 
327 Willard Ave.. Michigan City, Indiana 
16 Elm St.. Garden City, L. I.. New Y^ork. 
9th and Sycamore Sts.. Cincinnati, Ohio. 
418 Jefferson Bldg.. Peoria. Illinois 
1201 First National Bank Bldg., Fort Wayne. Ind. 
1300, 139 N. Clark St.. Chicago. Illinois 
110 S. Dearborn St.. Box 3. Chicago, 111. 
904 Trust Company Bldg., Milwaukee. Wisconsin 
Monger Bldg.. Elkhart, Indiana 
10 S. LaSalle St., Chicago. Illinois 
Sll-13 Paulsen Bldg.. Spokane, Washington 
Bar Bldg.. 36 W. 44 th St.. New York City 
Buckley Bldg.. Cleveland. Ohio 
P. O. Box 356. Momence, Illinois 527 Beall Ave.. Wooster. Ohio 1635 First National Bank Bids., Chicago. Illinois 324 Fourth St.. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania 921 Engineers Bldg., Cleveland. Ohio 1055 Granville Ave.. Chicago. Illinois 1033 S. Linden Ave.. Highland Park, III. 708 First Trust Bldg., Hammond. Indiana 211 Hamilton Ave., Elgin, Illinois. 1110-8th Ave.. S., Escanaba, Michigan 650 Pierce St., Gary. Indiana 1012 Black Bldg.. Los Angeles. California 1 Park Ave. New York City 1024 Monroe Ave.. Rochester. New York 313 Napoleon Blvd.. South Bend. Indiana Fifth Avenue Ass'n. Empire State Bldg., N. Y. City Pullman Co.. 79 E. Adams St.. Chicago. HI. 38 N. 12th St.. Newark, New Jersey 8126 Drexcl Blvd.. Chicago, Illinois 718 E. Corby St., South Bend, Indiana 231 Wisconsin St., Indianapolis, Indiana 1055 Park Ave., New York City 3624 Chestnut St.. Philadelphia. Pennsylvania 
Notre Dame. Indiana. 

District Governors 
District Xante 1 Frank E. Ilering II John W. Costcllo III ^ John P. Murphy IV ' William J. Redden V Don P. O'Kccfe VI John H. Nccson VII Ambrose O'Connell VIII Gerald A. Ashe IX Hon. Wm. J. Granficld X Hilton Goodwyn XI Harry Mehre XII W. N. Rosier XIII Twomey Clifford XIV Arthur T. Simpson XV John L. Corley XVI Walter Duncan XVII Hon. Albert J. Galen XVIII Raj-mond M. Humphreys XIX Terence B. Cosgrovo XX Dr. J. M. Toner XXI Emmett Lenihan 
XXII C. C. Fitzgerald 
Address 

Dean Bldg.. South Bend. Ind. 57 E. 21st St.. Chicago. III. . Terminal Tower. Cleveland. Ohio. 3525 West North Ave., Milwaukee. Wis. Chev. Motor Co., General Motors Bldg., Detroit. City Hall Annex. Philadelphia. Pa. 
1600 Broadway. New York City. 1024 Monroe Ave., Rochester, New York. 1200 Main St. Springfield. Mass. 2110 East Grace St. Richmond. Va. University of Georgia. Athens, Ga. 1001 Heyhum Bldg.. Louisville. Ky. Camden. Arkansas 20s Southwestern Life Bldg., Dallas. Texas. 4463 Lindell. St. Louts. Missouri. 658 First St. La Sallo. III. 435 Qarfc St, Helena, Mont 1423 Race St, Denver, Colo. Los Angeles Athletic Club. Los Angeles. Calif. Ko, 1 Terntce Drive. San Francisco. Calif. County-City Bldg.. Seattle, Wash. La Metropolitana. 242. Havana. Cuba. 

COMMENT 
One more! 
And for three reasons: 

1.
 Justice to the alumni who have paid dues which the Association specified would include the alumni magazine. 

2.
 Credit at the Ave. Maria, which they can ill afford, but which we ac­cept in the con^^ction that some fu­ture generation of alumni will not only subscribe to the ALUMNUS but to the Ave ilaria. 

3.
 Urgent letters from two groups of alumni, those who have paid their dues and those who ob\-iously are sin­cere but cant' pay their dues, both asking definitely that this one contact with Notre Dame be maintained. 


President Manion and the Editor have gone over the situation thor­oughly with the University and have been forced to appeal for temporaiy aid, which, at this writing, looks probable. 
But what a time for 6,000 able bodied sons to run home to Alma Mater's farm. Because the problem of "farm relief" hasn't been solved much better here than anywhere else. 
This isn't aimed at the possible 1,500 alumni who were just getting themselves economically entrenched and are trying desperately to hold their positions now. 
It isn't aimed at the 1,.500 whose dues are paid or who, by vocation, are exempt from dues. 
It isn't aimed at an outside 1,500 who are unemployed or working part time. 
But the Editor can't help but esti­mate another 1,500 who are in that class the national administration has 
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
JAMES E . AIUISTRONG, '25, Editor 
The mai;:azine is published monthly during the scholastic year by the Alumni Association of the University of Notre Dame. Notre Dame. Indiana. The subscription price is S2.00 a year; the price of single copies is 25 cents. The annual alumni dues of $5.00 include a year's subscription to THE ALUMNUS. Entered as second-^ass matter January 1, 1923. at the post ofRce at Notre Dame. Indiana, under the Act of March 3. 1879. All correspondence should be addressed to The Notre Dame Alumnus, Box 81. Notre Dame. Indiana. 
SlEJIBEE OP THE AMERICAN ALU-MN I COUNCIL 
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL CATHOLIC ALUMNI FEDERATION 
THE A L UMNI ASSOCIATION 
• of the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Alumni Headquarters, Main Floor Administration Bldg., Notre Dame, Indiana JAMES E. AKJISTRONG, Secretary-Treasurer 
ALUMNI BOARD 
EEV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C.S.C, '90 Honorary President CLARENCE MANION, '22 President TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, '16 First Vice-President JAMES E . SANFOED, '15 Second Vice-President 
T. PAUL MCGANNON, '07 Director JOHN F . O'CONNELL, '13 Director ROBERT E . LYNCH, '03 Director HUGH A. 0*DONNELL, '94 Director GEORGE BIGGINS, '32 Director FRANK H . HAYES, '14 (ex officio) Director 
labeled "hoarders." These people, with a conservatism that, if moder­ate, would certainly find justification in present conditions, carry it beyond that point, and to preser%'e a fancied individual security are permitting institutions that are essential to their continued well being to collapse about them. 
These people, like the ostrich with head in the sand or the possum feign­ing sleep in the glare of the hunter's torch, will awaken to find their plumage gone to Paris or their suc­culent meat lying on a platter of sweet potatoes. The Church, Catholic education, society, culture, must be maintained. Not perhaps in the style to which legend had it they had be­come accustomed, but to a degree of effectiveness that will again stop At­tila at the gates of Rome. 
I realize that I presume in aligning the Alumni Association with the far greater factors from which it is but one of many offshoots. But the alarm­ing lack of appreciation of the prin­ciples and potentialities contained in the Alumni Association of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame is an indica­tion of the lack of interest of men educated in a Catholic university in these activities for which the Uni­versity stands, and as such involves them all. 
Those of you whose dues are un­paid, please give this matter your serious consideration, and, if possible, prevent the University from suffering another burden to be added. 
The ALUMNUS this month is one-half the usual size. You are of course getting essentials. But I assure you, as an Editor who has tried to be sparing of space in the past, that you miss much of interest when this curtailment exists. 


TH E NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 
Vol. XI. FEBRUARY, 1933 No. 5 

1200 Attend Testimonial Banquet 
Many Notables Present; Jimmy Crowley Brilliant As Toasttnaster; 
J.A. Farley Principal Speaker 
"In 1913 on the plains of West Point, Notre Dame became the rec­ognized leader of new football; and since then the fame of your Univer­sity has grown by leaps and bounds until now throughout the length and breadth of America the destinies of your elevens are followed each year by a gridiron fandom, the very ranks of which have been greatly swelled because of the genius shown by your football leadership." 
One thousand of this "fandom" heard Mr. James A. "Big Jim" Far­ley, national democratic chairman speak these words of tribute, while assembled at the 13th Annual Civic Testimonial Dinner given by the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Val­ley in honor of the Notre Dame foot­ball team of 1932 and its coaches. Mr. Farley paused long enough in his strenuous schedule of duties to come to South Bend and deliver his address at the banquet which began at seven o'clock on Monday evening, January 16, in the University Dining Hall. 
With the exception of three ad­dresses of serious theme and a speech of welcome by Mayor W. R. HinMe of South Bend, good-natured banter­ing, humorous quips, marked the se­ries of fine and varied talks presided over by Toastmaster Jimmie Crowley whose quick wit belied his nickname "Sleepy" as the audience and those who heard the banquet broadcast afterivard affirmed. According to Warren Brown sports editor of the Chicago Herald and Examiner, who presented a completely humorous ad­dress, "Insult %vas the order of the evening." 
Following an excellent full course dinner, musical selections by the Notre Dame Band directed by Joseph 
J. Casasanta, and continued migra­tions of alumni from table to table for the purpose of greeting old friends and schoolmates, Presiding OfBcer Edward J. Meehan opened the program. Mr. Meehan introduced the toastmaster, who then took over the reins for the evening. 
Toastmaster Crowley at once launched an offensive of wit against the speakers on the program, who in most instances proceeded to give Mr. 
BY THOMAS PROCTOR 

Crowley a taste of his own medicine. After the speech of welcome by Mayor Hinkle, Noble Kizer and Gus Dorais, football coach of Purdue and director of athletics at Detroit Uni­versity respectively, both Notre Dame alumni, were introduced. ICizer con­cluded his remarks by saying, "May the best team win next November 11th," referring to the Purdue-Notre Dame game of that day. The Univer­sity's versatile band aided in the in­troduction of the next speaker, James 
A. Farley, by playing "Happy Days Are Here Again" the Democratic An­them. Toastmaster Crowley trans­formed himself into political char­acter to give the famous manager of boxers and politicians a real political introduction, flowery and oratorical. 
In his address Mr. Farley praised the team and coaching statf, the late Knute K. Bockne, his friends in the Middle West, the Fathers of the Holy Cross Congregation, and the system of Catholic education. He referred to himself often as one of the "subway alumni" of Notre Dame. "Big Jim" concluded his remarks with a plea for support of his party in this time of distress, showing the importance of "blocking" obstacles in national af­fairs as well as in football. 
With the playing of "Indiana" by the band. Governor Paul V. McNutt of Indiana was introduced. The im­pressive executive stressed the point that the "spirit of Notre Dame" should be carried into the world in this hour of its need. He then con­gratulated the team as a group of upstanding, fighting men. 
The Reverend Charles L. O'Donnell, C.S.C, President of Notre Dame, 
At Testimonial Grid Banquet: Left to right—Clarence Manion, Gov. Paul McNutt, Jimmy Crowley, James A. Farley, Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, CS.C, Major John L. Griffith, Harry Kipke, Jesse Harper, and Mayor W. R. Hinkle. 
pointed out the present proper status of football as a game and nothing 

Buckley Arrives—'28, A Little Late 
more, and the relation of college alumni to their football team. Using Molokai, the leper colony as an ex­ample, Father O'Donnell told of the worldwide devotion toward Notre Dame and its representatives. The president interspersed his addres.'! with many humorous remarlis and with expressions of gratitude to those who had managed the affair. 
Harry Kipke, coach of Michigan University, national football cham­pions, Warren Brown, Arch Ward, Chicago Tribune Sports Editor, Jesse Harper, director of athletics at Notre Dame, Clarence Manion, who paid a glowing tribute to Rockne, and Coach Heartley W. Anderson, were on the speakers program. "Hunk" introduced the members of the 1933 Varsity and Coaching Staff. 
Many notables, including Major John Griffith, commissioner of the Big Ten, Senator Frederick Van Nuys of Indiana, Frank Walker, democratic national treasurer, Charles Hand, Washington correspondent, and others were introduced in the course oc the evening. 
The hall was decorated with large pennants and flags, the speaker's table being arranged in the form of a football field with yard markers and goal posts. At one time in the eve­ning a bust of Rockne was illuminated by floodlight and the audience arose to pay silent respects, while the band played "Notre Drame Our Jlother.'' Reverend Eugene Burke, C.S.C., was winner of the autographed football drawing. The banquet concluded with the playing of the "Victory March." 
Urges Garnishment Changes 

Amendment of the existing gar­nishment laws to provide exemptions for single persons whose salaries or wages are less than $15 a week is proposed by Judge John F. O'Connell of the Municipal court in a recom­mendation sent by him to Gov. Horner recently. 
The wages of heads of families are now exempt from garnishment by judgment creditors to the extent of $20 a week. For months past Judge ' O'Connell has presided over one of the garnishment branches of the Municipal court. The depression" has so largely increased the volume of such court business that it was neces­sary recently to apportion the work to txvo judges, O'Connell and Lupe. 
"In many cases the salary of a son or daughter is the sole income of families, where the father is unem­ployed. Often the income of a young­er member of the family is all that keeps the group from being objects of relief." 
I was inspired bv a letter from HOWIE PHALIN from New York and one from ART DENCHFIELD from Uruguay to begin to make defi­nite plans for our five year reunion in June of this year. "They both feel that the initiative must come from the '28 men who are here at Notre Dame and South Bend. I have called a meeting of the '28 men in this vi­cinity to cooperate with me in making plans that will be so attractive that you all will be back. A report of this meeting will be found in ne.xt month's issue. How about giving us your aid by dashing suggestions regarding the kind of program you want will be of great assistance. The following note from Denchfield will probably encour­age you far better than anything that I can say to you: Querido amigasso: 
I sincerely hope that you will get to work and make our five year re­union a complete success this coming June. For my part the muscles in my right hand are dancing and jump­ing around in anticipation of again grasping hands that once worked to­gether for a common goal. 
Remembrances to all and best per­sonal regards. As ever, yours in '28, Arthur Denchfield. 
The National City Bank of New York, Montevideo, Uruguay. 
The following letter from HOWIE PHALIN from Hotel New Yorker, New York City should be of interest to most of you: 
Dear Louie: I have decided that the duties of paternity hang very heavy as it seems I am not going to hear from you at all. We are enjoying our stay in New York very much. I run on to the fellows ever so often. One night the Mrs. stopped in a Doubleday-Doran Bookstore and after we were there about ten minutes and I had talked with the fine young gentleman 

"Charley's Aunt" is Big Hit 

Overflow audiences on the nights of Jan. 21 and 22 enjoyed e.Kcellent per­formances of the old favorite farce-comedy "Charley's Aunt" by the Uni­versity Theatre in Washington Hall. Casting and direction by Prof. Frank Kelly were evident in every phase of the play and the work of the cast was considerably above even the high average of the Theatre's history. Dave Powers as the "Aunt" was pop­ular with an audience most of whom had seen the part done by both pro­fessionals and amateurs. T i g h e Woods and Roger Beirne as the tw-o older male characters, Chesney and 
in charge I discovered it was none other than BERNIE GARBER. He is getting a very metropolitan appear­ance. I met TURK KELLY scurry­ing along at Times Square. Believe he told me he was teaching. Have been in to see WATTS EICHER a couple of times. Guess he will go along with F. D. to Washington. You probably remember EDDIE BOURKE. I was at a dinner party at his home. Also saw EDDIE FALLON who is running his Dad's Law Book store down town. Met K.-VNE on 34th headed east. During the Army game we entertained BERNIE BIRD. He is Probation Ofiicer of the Children's court in Buff'alo. He told me that BILL DOWDALL is married and living in Buffalo where he is taking charge of that territory for his Dad in the packing business. Saw Big JOHN McMANMON the week end of the game. Also LEO McINTYRE, BILL HEARN. H.ANK BURNS, JIMMY C00G.4N, JIM HARTLEY, TOM RUCKLEHOUSE, GEORGE DAPSON, CHARLEY JUDGE. Guess I told you about being to a N. J. Club meeting over in Newark last month Saw RED RILEY, BERNIE and JACK WINGERTER, TOM PUR­CELL and the rest of the New Jersey crowd. They certainly have a peppy 
bunch there. 
What are the plans for the reunion at graduation? I sure plan to make it but no one knows where I may be by then. I might be in Alaska or South America by that time. Hope things get straightened around this year so we can get set somewhere and really live. I am awfully tired of travelling. I have driven about 30,000 miles this year. 
.-^S ever, 
Howie Phalin. 

BILL JONES of Helena, Montana fame spent New Year's with me here in South Bend. Bill was making his annual pilgrimage to Detroit. Yes, she has moved from Mishawaka to Detroit. 
Spettigue, were good in parts that always tax young men. The Misses Chisholm, Maurer, Gustafson and Tate, guest artists in the feminine roles, contributed ability and charm to their several parts. 

Tom Hearden Married 

Tom "Red" Hearden, former cap­tain of the football team, '26, was rnarried in the Log Chapel at Notre Dame Jan. 28, to Miss Marion Moore, Green Bay, Wis. Rev. W. P. McDer­mott, principal of St. Catherine's High School, Racine, where Hearden is coach of all sports, married them. 


Secretary Visiting Fifteen Local Almni Clubs in East 
Cincinnati February 2-3-4 Dayton February 5 Columbus February 6 Youngstown February 7 Akrsn February 8 Cleveland February 9 Buffalo February 10-11 Rochester February 12-13 Syracuse February 14 Albany February 15 New York February 16 and to New Jersey February 20 Philadelphia February 21-22 Washington February 23-24 Pittsburgh February 25 
Above is the itinerary prepared by James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secre­tary of the University for the largest personal contact campaign in ten years. And this time, instead of en­dowment, the objects are simply to visit the Local Alumni clubs and see that the present critical situation on both sides is thoroughly understood and arrange for the mutual benefits that can be secured from these evil days. 
Two activities of the Alumni Office formed the nucleus of the present trip. One is a convention of the alumni association officers of District Five of the American Alumni Council, which is to be held at the University of Cincinnati Feb. 3 and 4. The other is the meeting of the executive com­mittee of the American Alumni Coun­cil which is to be held in Buffalo Feb. 10 and 11. The local Secretary was Director for Conventions last year in the Council and as the California convention was cancelled because of 
Brother Bede, Former 
Brother Bede, C.S.C, for many years a prefect in Brownson and St. Edward's Halls, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, died in Bengal, India, January 14. He was bom in Tralee, County Kerry, Ireland, Aug­ust 24, 1884, and educated at the Academy of the Irish Christian Brothers in his native town and at Notre Dame. In 1905 he was clothed in the habit of the Brothers of Holy Cross, and made his final vows, De­cember 8, 1909. Besides serving as a prefect, he was for some years as­sistant-superior of the preparatory school for the Brothers, Sacred Heart College, Watertown, Wisconsin, and the depression that seems to have af­fected alumni associations generally, the job was held over for the 1933 convention which is to be held in Chi­cago during the Century of Progress observance. 
The trip will also be the occasion for visiting four District Governors of our own Association—Gerald Ashe, Rochester; John Murphy, Cleveland; Ambrose O'Connell, New York, and John Neeson, Philadelphia. 
In addition to these alumni acti\"i­ties,a number of high schools from which Notre Dame has drawn stud­ents during the past few years have extended invitations to the Notre Dame Alumni Secretary to speak to their students interested in Notre Dame. The same information and general subject matter will be avail­able for any parents or young men contemplating attending Notre Dame, whom the Local .Alumni clubs may know. 
The territory to be covered makes the stops necessarily brief, and the volume of material to be handled at each stop will necessitate missing a great deal that the ordinary visit would permit, but opportunity is not to be questioned these days and the secretary jumped at the chances how­ever slight. Club officers have been asked to avoid inconveniences to mem­bers as these visits will be most in­formal. Get your questions ready as to how is so and so and where is so and so and what is so and so, and to the best of the limited ability of your proposed visitor they'll be answered. The dialectic system seems to work out most satisfactory for the secre­tary who usually leaves a couple of good written speeches at home before going on any trip. 

Prefect, Dies In India 
also assistant to the Master of Nov­ices, St. Jopeph'.s Novitiate, Notre Dame. 
In 1926 he volunteered for the Diocese of Dacca, Bengal, India, which the Holy See has entrusted to the care of the Congregation of Holy Cross. There he was stationed at Ranikhong in charge of the numerous catechumens, converts from among the Garo tribe, and at Mymensingh. When his fellow-missionary. Father 
C. Brooks was attacked by a tiger in 1929, Brother Bede rescued him from a painful death by killing the brute with the first shot. The incident re­ceived considerable publicity in the Catholic press. 

Wurzer Firm. Grofvos 
The old established law firm of Wurzer & Wurzer, of Detroit, last year suffered the loss by death of its junior, Henry C. Wurzer. Announce­ment is made of the reorganization of the firm by the admission thereto of John T. Higgins, who has been associated with it for seven years past. Mr. Higgins is a native of Shel­byville, Ind., took his arts degree at 
JOHN T. HIGGINS 

Notre Dame and his law at George­town University. In Detroit he was first associated \vith the law firm of Clark, Emmons & Bryan, going to Wurzer & Wurzer several years ago. Mr. Higgins is a member of Notre Dame Council, K. of C, and was for several years lecturer in Corporate Finance in the Evening College of Commerce of the University of De­troit. Mr. Higgins will also be re­membered as the author and broad­caster of a series of Sunday Evening talks in 1932, on the Knights of Col­umbus hour, relative to Catholic social, cultural and benevolent activ­ities in the diocese of Michigan. The late F. Henry Wurzer was a leading Notre Dame graduate. His surviving brother, Louis C. Wurzer, is, like his new associate, Mr. Higgins, also a Notre Dame graduate. 
Pro and Con Haynes 

The letter in the last ALUMNUS from Harold Haynes, '23, has brought several others to the Office. Vince Cavanaugh, '23, Syracuse, be­lieves that the letter merits more ser­ious thought on the part of the Uni­versity, a thought shared by Bruce Holmberg. Norb Skelley, '25, Tulsa, believes that the individual is respon­sible for the application of his educa­tion in the business world. 



W.B, Yeats Lectures Here on TheAthletics Irish Renaissance 
The signing of Heartley (Hunk) Anderson for another year as head coach of football takes the spotlight in this month's athletic show at Notre Dame. Since Jesse Harpers' contract as director of athletics does not ex­pire until May, no announcement has been made in his case, nor have the assistant coaches for next year been announced. 
The basketball team, battling against an injurj^ and illness jinx, has showed definite signs of a comeback and our predcition is that Coach George Keogan will finish with a per­centage of .700 or better, despite the fact that the season is more than half over with six games won and si.x lost. Also despite the fact that Butler, Pitt, and Marquette, three of the teams to defeat Notre Dame are on schedule for return games. 
After winning three straight from Albion, 41 to 20; from Illinois Wes­leyan, 24 to 12; and from North­western, 28 to 25; Captain Johnny Baldwin, Al McGuff, and Leo Crowe managed to get sick or injured so that Purdue won a 3G to 31 game and started the downslide. Keogan fin­ished with four forwards and a cen­ter in that game. 
Three more games went to the op­position—Ohio State, 30 to 24; North­western, 33 to 29; and Marquette, 35 to 32 in the overtime—before Notre Dame chalked up a 30 to 19 victory over the Michigan State team which so far has a .667 percentage for the season. Then Butler won a 27 to 25 contest in which Notre Dame tied the score eight times but never went ahead after the middle of the first half; and Pittsburgh took the lead wtih a minute and a half to play to win, 29 to 25. Redemption for these two defeats came in the form of im­pressive victories over Minnesota 30 to 22 and Toledo, 42 to 14. 
The main weakness of the team has been defensive failure. Keogan's old axiom says that to hold the opposi­tion to 19 points is to win most of your games. Injuries and illness has robbed Notre Dame of its full guard strength, and all three of the guards. Baldwin, Crowe, and McGuff are short men. Notre Dame has scored at least 24 points in every game and has lost while scoring 35 (against Pitt). Having lost four regulars and two reserves from last year's team, and three more guards for some games this year, Keogan is to be con­gratulated that his team has even come close to the teams he cho.=e to play this year. 
"Some day we may have a great literature; perhaps here and there we have it already;" so spoke Wil­liam Butler Yeats, famed Irish poet, essajnst, and dramatist, to a houseful 
of Notre Dame students and faculty members in Washington Hall Mon­day evening Jan. 9. Mr. Yeats had been speaking about the Irish Renais­sance, that admirable right angle of 30 or 40 years duration during which Ireland has introspected a bit and found something wrong with itself as well as with England. 
Before going into detail in regard to the Renaissance proper, Mr. Yeats gave first a brief sketch of Irish liter­ature and the Irish mind during those centuries which produced such figures as Berkeley, Swift and Burke. He spoke of the influence of the French 
John E. Miller Joins 
John Edward Miller of Cleveland, new member of the faculty of the University of Notre Dame in the de­partment of architecture took up his duties Feb. 1, at the opening of the new semester. 
Miller was born and raised in Cleveland, Ohio, where he attended Glenville High schooL He received his bachelor of science degree in archi­tecture from Catholic University, Washington, D. C, in 1928. He taught at Catholic University his last two years as a student. 
He also studied at the Fontaine­bleau Academy of fine arts in France in 1926. He was an instructor in Revolution, the deep-seated Irish af­fection for liberty, the facetious ap­praisal of England as "the origin of all evil." 
Getting to the body of his lecture, the speaker talked of the changing attitude of intelligent people in the latter part of the nineteenth century toward their own country. "Give a rough tongue to Ireland for once," was the slogan which best typifies the new outlook. A thri\'ing roman­tic, theater-going, self-contemplative age was setting in—the era which produced the magnificent writings of Lady Gregory, with their simple, elastic, quietly dignified style, the era of John Synge's plays which were more exciting than a Democratic convention, the era of free thought, of exhausted police forces, and the most rebellious of rebels. 
As if they depicted more accurately than did anything else the mind of Ireland during this Renaishance per­iod, Mr. Yeats constantly referred to the Irish plays. Long associated with the famed Abbey Theater, he himself is unquestionably a firm believer that the stage in particular and literature in general give the truest cross sec­tion of a nation's life. 
Now 67 years old, 1923 Nobel Prize Winner, co-founder of the Irish Academy of Letters, a well rounded scholar, William Butler Yeats lec­tures leisurely, every now and then humorously, and likes his audience to ask him questions. Himself a non-Catholic, Mr. Yeats speaks of an in­digenously Catholic country with an admirable broadmindedness, but with some decidedly set views which must not always mesh perfectly with the more developed Irish Catholic mind. 

Architectural Faculty 
architecture at the Cleveland School of Architecture for half a year in 1931. The Cleveland school is con­nected with Western Reserve univer­sity. 
Recently Mr. Miller has been asso­ciated with the firm of Walker and Weeks in Cleveland, architects for the Cleveland Municipal stadium, in which Notre Dame played Navy in football last fall, and for many of Cleveland's fine municipal buildings. He worked recently on the buildings and grounds contained in the beauti­ful Cleveland public mall. ' 
Mr. Miller will reside in Lyons hall on the campus. 


ALUMNI CLUBS 
CINCINNATI 

Clem Crowe, the able Captain of the Notre Dame Football team in 1925, who is now assisting Chief Joe JMeyers of Xavier University, is not only becoming famous for his ath­letic strategy, but is also advancing with rapid strides as a speaker. The secretary has had the pleasure of introducing Clem to several K. of C. Couhcils, and Clem has "done himself proud" by his oratory—thus demon­strating the versatility of Notre Dame men. 
John Botts Crowley is being kept quite busy these days. John is a busy salesman for the Cincinnati Athletic Goods Co., and also finds time to ref­eree several basketball games during the week. 
Jack Elder blew into Cincinnati last month to hold the role of principal speaker at Joe Morrissey's banquet for the victorious Roger Bacon High school team—twice City Champions. The speakers' table looked more like a Notre Dame banquet. Besides Mr. Elder, there were seated: Joe Morris­sey, Hogan Morrissey, Leo Dubois, Clem Crowe, Joe Meyers and Botts Crowley. 
We see Jack Van Lahr almost ev­ery day. Jack, however, keeps bank­ers' hours as he is handling cash for the Pro^^dent Savings bank, one of Cincinnati's largest banking institu­tions. 
The Notre Dame club of Cincinnati, in co-operation with the Cincinnati Campus club, enjoyed a very fine eve­ning of dancing and entertainment at the famous Cincinnati club during the Holidays. The old secretary was un­able to attend due to a previous ap­pointment; however, some 70 or 80 couples danced to the strains of the Victorj' March, etc., until the wee hours of the morning. 
We are very happy to announce that Mr. Edw. McHugh, former presi­dent of the Cincinnati Notre Dame club, is making rapid strides on the road to full health. Ed has had a pretty tough time, but plenty of fight to get well. 
Our traveling member, Leo Dubois, visited you on his last trip to South Bend, is starting for Baltimore, Maryland, next Tuesday to the Na­tional Real-Estate meeting. 
Bob Hughes, our dapper little pres­ident, went hunting over the Holi­days. Hunting what? Must have been BEARS from the stories Bob handed out on his return. 
The news is a bit late, but smiling Joe Morrissey came through with the City Championship in football — the second straight season for Joe and his Roger Bacon boys—and what a gang he has for next season! Try to stop him! 
Harry Crumley and his brother, William Crumley, have just been awarded contract to dig some several miles of sewerage. These men are brothers of Father Thomas Crumley, and of course, both graduates of Notre Dame. 
Don Dixon, son of the famous Judge Dixon, greatest vote getter in Cincinnati, is studying law at the University of Cincinnati. Don spent a couple of years at Notre Dame. 
Bill and Al Castellini have about cornered the fruit business in Cincin­nati. I called Bill the other day and Al chimed in on the 'phone, singing: "Yes, we have no bananas!" 
Lou Baden is doing office work at the Fenwick club. Monsignor Baden, Director of the club, is Lou's uncle. Lou must have a drag. 
KENTUCKY 

Dear Jim: I am sorry that I must start this letter with an apology because of its tardiness, but due to the laxness of the Club, nothing has occurred of any interest to the Notre Dame ALUMNUS. The election of officers took place a short time ago, of which the follow­ing were elected: Mr. Randall Dempf, president; Mr. Marion Heiferman, vice-president; Mr. Charles Henry Bushmeyer, treas­urer; Mr. Wm. A. Reisert, Jr., sec­retary. Several weeks ago the picture of the Notre Dame-Southern California football game appeared at the Na­tional Theater, and the club spon­sored a Notre Dame night at the Theater. Some of the old time spirit was shown at this affair, as the Notre Dame bunch had a section to 
themselves and probably a hundred members and their friends turned out. In all probability, there will be a 
meeting about the first part of Feb­ruary, the date which has not been decided yet, and after which I will write you and let you know just about the procedure of the club for the 
coming year. I know nothing else of importance just at present. Wm. A. Reisert, Jr. 
NORTHERN CALIFORNIA 

Dear Jim: 
With considerable alarm I view your carefully worded mandate to the Alumni Association relative discon­tinuance of the ALUMNUS. Instead of retrenching in such propaganda media as the ALUMNUS, we should expand the program and include a quarterly review, edited by Notre Dame men. Some method must be de­vised of selling this idea to the Alum­ni Association. I realize that it is a devilishly-hard task to get money from anyone these days, but the ALUMNUS should be continued. Sup­pose every Alumnus able to do so would contribute one dollar—^would that help you? Or suppose you break your association into regions and zones and have a group appointed to entice delinquents to pay up. If the Alumni in difficult financial circum­stances cannot pay the required fee, why not permit them the option of paying ?3 or ?2 or even $1. (Ed. note: Buddy, can you spare a dime). 
Some news from the Coast: John 

F. Dunne, '28, has been appointed general manager of athletics at the University of Santa Clara. This gives Santa Clara almost an all-Notre Dame athletic department, wit h "Clipper" Smith and "Buck" Shaw coaching football. John has charge of all athletic operations—John handled publicity for Santa Clara last fall. It may be noted here that Santa Clara increased its net gate receipts last fall 25 percent! Can you tie that in a year of depression? Year, did I say?. . . Bob Lane, Cascade, Iowa; 
N. D., '29, is teaching Biology at Santa Clara and attending Stanford Medical school. . . . Daniel Sullivan, now an attorney, Notre Dame, '09, formerly director of dramatics at Notre Dame was one of the speakers at the Santa Clara Passion Play rally on Jan. 12. This Santa Clara Pas­sion Play,' written by famed Clay M. Green, a Santa Clara Alumnus, was first produced in 1901. It has been repeated every five years. 
Were we proud a few weeks ago? Naturally, we would be with "Clip­per" Smith being very seriously con­sidered for the coaching post at Stan­ford. "Clipper" did not file an ap­plication for the position, nor did he seek out support from any alumni group, nor did he make any state­ments. He was very gracious through­out all the rumors of his being given the position. "Clipper" is easily the outstanding coach on the Pacific Coast from the viewpoint of a unique personality and a high sense of sportsmanship. (This is no discredit or reflection on the rest, but Smith has a very gracious way in winning and a high-class way in losing that is making thousands of friends for him.) To our mind he ranks with the greatest Notre Dame style coach­es in the country. . . . "Buck" Shaw, Santa Clara line coach, is working for the Standard Oil sales department in off-season. (Football, of course. Gas and oil, apparently, have no off­season) . 
W. M. Packer, one of the big shots of Chevrolet Motor Company, passed the word to us that Dan Brady, '26, connected with the Detroit office of Chevrolet, is one of the brightest young men in the company and Packer expects Brady to become very important in the Chevrolet organiza­tion before many years pass. Of course you know that Che\Tolet led the country in passenger car sales the last four out of six years! (Please don't be a boy scout, now, Jim, and cut this publicity for a great motor car! And also send a marked copy to Chevrolet, Detroit. Irish politics may land an ad for you!) 
We are sorry to report the death of Ernest Duncan, '98. Mr. Duncan was one of the leading business men of San Francisco. He played on the football team of '98. 
THE YOUNG MAN ABOUT TOWN SAW; Eustace CuHinan, Sr., '95, at the Bohemian Club, THE club of San Francisco. . . . Keene Fitpat­rick, '12, with a portfolio under his arm, enroute to mail an advertising contract down for the Chicago Trib­une group of papers which he repre­sents on the West Coast. . . John Hogan, '26, former Notre Dame tackle, watching Ernie Nevers' pro­fessionals work out at Stanford. . . . 
Eustace Cullinan, Jr., '25, skipping around the cool marble halls of our municipal edifice. There was a crafty look in Hughie's eye. He was court­ing that regal mistress, the law, once more. . . Vince McNally, '27, basket­ball coach at St. Mary's, built an ex­cellent five on the Gaels court. 
Bert Dunne. 
MILWAUKEE 

The following notes came from Paul Brust. 
Ed Eeaume, '26, is keeping Wis­consin folk well informed about the merits of Cyclone Fences. He travels about the state rather extensively, and always seems to be out of town when we have festivities in Mil­waukee. 
Tom Meagher, '30, played a stellar brand of football at Marquette Uni­versity this year. Tom played at left end and so distinguished himself that he has been signed to coach the game at St. John's Cathedral High. 
Ed Wm. Brown, '28, formerly of Racine, Wisconsin is now connected with the legal department of AUis Chalmers Co. He has moved to Mil­waukee and has already distinguished himself by his presence at our bridge party. 
James Rank, ex-'30, can be seen most any day in a well known Mil­waukee jewelry shop which has his father's name over the window. 
Victor Woeste, '29, has been spend­ing his working and leisure hours at Columbia hospital, Milwaukee. He is filling the position of expert staff assistant. 
Bill Redden our club president is just back from California. (No good place for N. D. men). 
Paul Brust. 
WYOMING 
Dear Jim: 
I promised last month to submit for your approval and acceptance a report on the Wyoming "grads" of Notre Dame, and now I find that, the promise being made, must be kept. I am not so sure that I shall include all of the alumni, but I shall do my ut­most. Some, perhaps, are unknown to me. 
FRANK MAHONEY, of the class of '14, and who has a sister (Sister Mary Agnes) at St. Mary's, is in the woolgrowing business together ^vith a younger brother, James, who was graduated in '27. Another brother, Phillip, of the class of '24, and a member of the '24 basketball squad, is living in Casper. He, too, is a woolgrower, is married and has a left-end for the class of—let's say '4S. 
TIM MOYNIHAN is in Rawlins, together with his wife and that fu­ture center of his. Tim is making a very serious bid for the head coach position at the U. of Wyoming. We all, of course, are doing everything we can for the big boy, since we would like to see the N. D. system installed at Wyoming. 
FR.A.NK BON, of Cheyenne, class of '27, was secretary to Congressman Vincent Carter the last time I heard about him. Guess he is in Washing­ton, D. C. right now. 
MIKE PAPPAS, '31, is managing his uncle's restaurant for him here in Rawlins, and is doing a good job at it, too. 
BILL LOOMIS, '27, is working for his father in Rawlins. He is part-time manager of the clothing depart­ment in his dad's store, and spends the rest of his time in the grocery division. Bill has been married for several years to a home town girl. 
BARRY MAHONEY, ex. '27, of Casper, is a go-getting insurance man in his home town, and has built up a good business for himself at the last report. 
TOM KASSIS, of Casper, has been coaching the backfield of the U. of Wyoming during the past season. Now that the season is over, he has gone to Cheyenne to manage one of his father's dry goods stores there. He was a member of the class of '31, I believe. 
CARL GUENSSLEN, of Green River, a graduate of the class of '32, is living at home at the present time, and is in the dry goods business there. 
BOB GRESSER, '28, is married and living in Mishawaka, Indiana. He is an accountant for a tea company, so I hear. 
M.A.URICE SANDERMAN, a stu­dent at Notre Dame during the years 1925, 1926 and 1927, is married, the father of two children—a boy and a girl—and is living in Jasper, Indiana, where he is connected with the Buick Distributors of that district. 
TOM HAMELINE, '29, is insuring them in the Aetna in South Bend and Mishawaka. Tom recently did a Log Chapel act with -a Mishawaka girl, and it's Mr. and Mrs. now. 
RAY NOV.^K, '30, is trying to collect notes from Iowa farmers for his father's bank at Spilleville, but reports that his luck isn't anything to brag about. Maybe he should get in touch ivith you, Jim, so you could moan about "collections" together. 
These are the alumni so far as I know them, Jim. There are, of course, more in our wild and woolly Wyo­ming, but they must be out playing cowboy. I can't get any information on them. 
Hope to be seeing you in June at the reunion of the different classes. 
Best regards to the good Father O'Hara and to yourself. Sincerely, Edward R. Quinn, '28. 
P. S. Yours truly is teaching high school and supervising a rural dis­trict of 8 small schools. 


^THE ALUMNI 
DEATHS 

FRANCIS J. KILKENNY died at his home in Chicago on Dec. 28. 
Francis J. Kilkenny was born in Kilafee, Carrigallen, County Leitrim, Ireland and came to the United States when a boy. He secured his LL.B from the Georgetown University Law School; he also attended the University of Notre Dame. He lec­tured before the students of Com­merce and Administration, University of Notre Dame, in 1925. When Gen­eral Charles G. Dawes went to Wash­ington during the McKinley adminis­tration, Mr. Kilkenny accompanied him, and rose to the position of con­fidential secretary, which position he held during the administrations of Comptrollers Dawes, Ridgely and Murray. In 1913, he resigned and came to Chicago to engage in the investment securities business. He has made good in his business as well as every other activity with which he has been identified. He served as aide to General Dawes during the World War in France, in recognition of which he was named by the French government as a member of The Academy of Public Instruction and Fine Arts; and is a member of the Evanston Post, Illinois, American Legion. Subsequently he served as assistant to General Dawes who was the first Director of the Budget under the Harding administration. After General Dawes was nominated as Vice President of the United States, Francis was appointed by him as his personal campaign manager. He suc­cessfully organized and promulgated the "Back-to-Ireland" movement in 1910, which resulted in inducing over 20,000 Irish-Americans to visit the "old land." In 1929 Mr. Kilkenny was a member of the Dominican Eco­nomic Commission. He married Ellen 
L. Ryan of Chicago, Jan. 2G, 1921. They have four children; Francis J., Jr., Catherine Mary, William John and Carolyn Dawes Kilkenny. He has a brother, Thomas J. Kilkenny, and a sister, Mrs. Catherine Lynch, both of Chicago, sun'iving him also. 
A letter from HUGH O'DONNELL adds: 
"I was shocked to learn of the death last week of Francis J. Kil­kenny. He was at Notre Dame in my day and, of course, I knew him well. He deserved much because what­ever plaudits he won, he earned for himself. He was ardent in his Irish sympathies and one summer became a hero by sending many thousands of 
Irish-Americans on home-going tours 
to Ireland where millions of Amer­
ican dollars were spent. 
"Early, by his loyalty, enterprise 

and devotion, he won the good-will of 
Charles G. Dawes, not only as Gen­
eral Dawes but later as Vice-Presi­
dent Dawes and even as Ambassador 
Dawes. He was devotion personified. 
He was frank and conscientious, ex­
ceedingly real, the kind of a man one 
wishes to have for a friend and he 
was a true friend to any whose cause 
he espoused or character he admired. 
•I had an affection for him and I will miss him." 
ERNEST C. DUNCAN, monogram football man in 1899-1900, died at his home in San Francisco Jan. 11, after a short illness. 
BIRTHS 

Th e ARTHUR SUDERS, '26, whom some prophet mentioned last month didn't disappoint him and are the parents of Carol Agnes Suder, bom in Toledo the latter part of December. 
REGISTRAR ROBERT RIORDAN, '24, and Mrs. Riordan are the parents of a daughter, Marcia Ellen, born in South Bend, Jan. 15. Bob and his wife now share their time with three boys and two girls. 
ME. AND MRS. LEO B. FETTIG, Elwood, Ind., '28, are parents of a son, Dennis Benedict, bom Jan. 19. A 7% pound start in life promises well for Leo's first-born. 
MARRIAGES 

KENNETH L HECK, was married Saturday, Jan. 14, in South Bend to Miss Eva Eleanor Mays. Kenneth and Mrs. Heck are at home in the Franklin Apartments, South Bend. 
ENGAGEMENTS 

Romance and optimism and the Notre Dame fight have combined to bring about the engagement of sev­eral N. D. athletes. The t\vo latest are those of Miss Louise Barthman of South Bend to WILLIAM J. SULLIVAN, JR., former varsity baseball star and present member of the White So.v who is completing studies in the College of I^aw, and Miss Betty Bushnell, Louisville, Ky., to PAUL HOST, captain of the 1932 football team. Paul will he gradu­ated from the College of Arts and Letters in June. Announcement was made several months- ago of the en­gagement of JOE KURTH, and one of the campus Winchells has whis­pered several more to come from the varsity dressing rooms before June. 
PERSONALS 
1895 

A note received at the Universitv from HUGH C. MITCHELL says, "In addition to my work on the Coast and the Geodetic Survey I am giving a course in Astronomy at the Cath­olic University. It is a one-semester course but it is a delightful contact." 
1908 

DR. J. A. CAPARO, head of the de­partment of electrical engineering, has been awarded a Fellowship in the American Institute of Electrical En­gineering. The honor is one which is shared by Dr. Caparo and the work of the department under his direction. 
1909 

FRANK C. WALKER, who was at Notre Dame Jan. 16 with James A. Farley iqt the Football Banquet, is now Colonel Frank C. Walker as the result of the action of the Governor of Texas. The honor was conferred upon Colonel Walker when he re­turned to New York from Notre Dame. Mr. Walker was also one of three guests of honor at a dinner tendered by the finance committee. President-Elect and Mrs. Roosevelt were among the guests. Mr. Walker (then) was presented with a fully equipped desk set. 
1910 

LOUIS PHILIPPE MICHAUD sends a check for dues from France— failing thereby to join in Ed Wynn's new Freeh poem, "Ode to the United States." Mr. Michaud is listed on his business card as Directenr General Genera l Motors France, Section Equipement, 89 a 95 Boul'd. de Lor­raine, Clichy, Seine. 
1913 

Mr. and Mrs. John Costello, Ke­wanna, Ind., father and mother of JOHN W. COSTELLO, Governor of District II and former president of the Association, celebrated their golden wedding anniversary on Janu­ary 23. The seven children of Mr. 
and Mrs. Costello, four girls and three boys, all attended either Notre Dame or St. Mary's. Besides John, the alumni members of the familv are DR. JOSEPH P. COSTELLO, '12, St. Louis, Mo., and EDWARD COS­TELLO, '10, Kewanna. Sixteen grand­children participated in the obsen-­ance. 
1914 
Newspapers recently carried pic­tures and stories of the return of the flying Marines from Nicaragua. Prominent among the illustrations was one of Secretary of Navy Charles Francis Adams and General Ben Ful­ler greeting CAPT. FRANCIS P. MULCAHY who commanded the squad of 22 planes which played such a vital part in the government's ac­tivities in Nicaragua. 
1916 
TIMOTHY P. GALVIN, vice-presi­dent of the Association, was among the Calumet District delegations at the Football Banquet. 
1917 
The change in Class Secretaries (cf. list) must be noted here. JOHN RILEY has asked a number of times to be relieved from the job which has become burdensome through lack of contacts. The Class poll has resulted in the selection of EDWARD J. Mc-OSKER , 221 Hamilton Ave., Elgin, 111., Ph.B. Journalism, as his suc­cessor. Dont' de.stroy the illusions of the new Secretary. With all of the talent in the Class, Ed is.urged to take a look at the ingenuity of Kid Ashe in the '22 column and see what can be done by a tired conductor. 
JOHN C. SHEA, dean of the law faculty of the University of Dayton, is emerging from a grave illness. On July 27th he had just completed a strenuous campaign for nomination as Judge of Appeals in his district and would have been overwhelmingly elected in November had not this serious illness interfered. With the assurance universally accepted that he would achieve victory at the polls, he was obliged to withdraw his name. With characteristic courage and pa­tience he met this trying ordeal and is again able to be about and rapidly recovering the use of speech and arm. 
1918 
REV. C. E. HOGAN wrote recentlv to REV. JOHN F. O'HARA. Father Hogan is pastor of St. Andrew's Church, Boulder City, Nevada. Fa­ther Hogan says, "I guess you did not know that I was building the dam out here and that I had a parish here for the past year. I come up in all kinds of out-of-the-way places; nevertheless I cannot forget my friends at Notre Dame .. . I have forgotten all the South American history you put into me but I have at least the pleasant recollection of delightful associates. 
DONALD A. LEPORE has been practicing law for twelve years at Hot Springs National Park, Ark. His address is 627% Central Ave. 
1922 
Dear Jim: Due to the fact that the '22 section of the ALUMNUS of late has been exceedingly dull and uninteresting I deem it best to bring in a Guest Con­ductor who might inject a little life and sparkle into the Februarj' issue. I believe I have succeeded admirably for Jerry Dixon—the Walter Winchell of the middle west—after receiving payment of a nominal fee, has ac­cepted the challenge. Let us tune in on the spokesman of the Mississippi basin, who writes as follows: 
Dear Friend and Counselor: 
Your letter received with reference to my becoming the Editor of your valued column in the ALUMNUS for the February issue. It is with fear and trepidation that I do this, because Ashe is to the ALUMNUS what per­fume is to the flower. 

The great electorate spoke in Ma­coupin Countv, Illinois on November 8, 1932, and chose MIKE SEYFRIT, States Attorney. Everybody, who re­members anything about fun at school during our time, unconsciously thinks of Mike, and everybody liked him. I am sure that all of us wish him the greatest of success during his tenure of ofiice for the next four years. Re­cently, a prominent fire insurance lawyer told us that not long ago he witnessed Mike successfully conduct a prosecution for arson, as an As­sistant States Attorney, and that he . thought that Mike was one of the best prosecutors he ever saw in action. 
A few weeks ago we were favored bv a visit at our office by STEPHEN 
E. (call me HICK) CARMODY, also a Macoupin County boy now living in a suburban town west of Chicago with his wife and new son, Thomas Timothy. He has been engaged in the road construction business since leaving school but is not working at the present time, or for the balan of the winter. We suggested that he return to Macoupin County during his enforced vacation and become Chief Investigator for the States Attorney. To this he demurred, replying that internecine warfare would occur with­in the limits of the States Attorney's office not more than a day after the new employment would take eff'ect. In his own inimitable way Bro. Car­mody put it "You know, Seyfrit and I always liked to scuffle." 
On his way to our office Hick 
stopped for a four o'clock cup of tea with G. T. (call me MIDNIGHT) MURPHY. The latter is now identi­fied on the telephone as "Mr. Mur­phy" and is District Superintendent for the Bell Telephone Company of three of the largest districts in Chi­cago. 
At the Northwestern game we met another Macoupin County boy who has made good, DR. DAN SEXTON of St. Louis. It looks as if Macoupin County common is on the bull side of the market. 
About the first of November DR. HENRY S. (call me HANK) ATKIN­SON favored us with a visit. He is Health Commissioner for the City of Green Bay and was attending a meet­ing in Chicago of the surgeons for the Northwestern Railroad. His wife and family made the trip to Chicago with him. One of the nights during his visit he met up with G. T. Mur­phy. When interviewed by the in­quiring reporter a few days later, the only comment made by Dr. Atkinson was "This Midnight Murphy is bad business for husbands." 
A few months ago the dignified at­mosphere near the Merchandise Mart in Chicago was punctured with cries of "Police, Robbers." Upon investiga­tion the voice was found to be that of Knight of the Grip, C. E. LYNCH, dean of salesmen. Bro. Lynch had driven to Chicago for the day from Peoria and had parked his car with­out removing the key. When he re­turned, the car, together with his pride and joy, the radio, had been taken by dishonest persons. When interviewed by the inquiring reported Mr. Lynch wept copiously, not for the car, but for the radio. "It was my little companion on my travels" he said, his voice choking with sobs. 
We have been informed that AL SCOTT has recently been appointed to the Municipal Court of Los An­geles by the Governor of California. His bro"ther,FATHER GEORGE SCOTT, is still located in Los An­geles. 
Seen at random in Chicago (with apologies to 0. 0. Mclntvre) ROG KILEY in court, JIM MURTAUGH the enterprising realtor, DOC HUGHES, more corpulent than ever, talking about hard times. His waist­line gave no indication of hard times to us—TONY SCHIAVONE, another enterprising realtor — JOSEPH H. FARLEY, a barrister with a large girth talking about hard times—^BEN SUSEN, -world tourist about to leave for the Isle of Tahiti and Singapore (no depression there, either) EMMET BURKE, now in the contracting busi­ness—DR. EDWARD N. ANDER­SON, specializing in eye, ear, nose and throat, and located in the Mar­shall Field Annex Building.­

At the Northwestern game we were disappointed that JIM SHAW and the Iowa delegation weren't there (Edi­tor's note—Com has been selling at eight cents a bushel in Iowa) Neither did we see J. PAUL CULLEN with his familiar chew of tobacco. During his recent visit with us, Bro. Carmody recalled that five or six years ago 
J. Paul called on him in Chicago for the purpose of inducing him to take a trip around the world. Bro. Car­mody replied that he was too busy just then to get away, and that, any­way, he wasn't interested in the Gobi Desert or the moonlight on the Nile. According to Hick, J. Paul left in a huff and continued the trek westward to Des Moines where he stopped to induce Jim Shaw to go with him. There he remained for a week and returned to Chicago to announce to Hick that he was as regally enter­tained in Des Moines as Cleopatra could have done on the Nile. For that reason the world tour ended in Iowa. Hick predicts that J. Paul's next world tour will extend as far as Wahoo, Nebraska. 
A few weeks ago we met our old friend COLONEL HOYNES coming down LaSalle Street. He appeared hale and hearty in spite of the fact that he is far into his eighties. He had been visiting in Chicago and was returning to Notre Dame. We have been wondering how many men of his age are able to walk through down-tow^n Chicago dodging traffic, alone and unassisted. 
1925 

"VINCENT F. HARRINGTON of Sioux City, a "shock trooper" for Knute Rockne in days of the "Four Horsemen" at Notre Dame, will be a claimant for the distinction of be­ing Iowa's youngest state senator in the forty-ninth general assembly. He is 29. 
"Harrington, a Democrat, cam­paigned against a friend to succeed to the seat of another friend. His Republican opponent was Chris Jep­son. B. M. Stoddard, legislative lead­er and chairman of the senate appro­priations committee last session, did not seek re-election. 
"The issue on which Harrington asked election was reduction of gov­ernment expense. He served on the Woodbury county committee of inves­tigation in studies of the legislative committee on reduction of govern­ment expenditures. 
"The program of the committee as presented is an excellent job. I will support at least 95 per cent of their proposals for consolidation, reorgani­zation, and economy," Harrington said. 
"Harrington, conferring Tuesday with Democratic leaders at the Kirk­wood hotel, said his vote on any pro­
hibition question would be for repeal. 
"I campaigned squarely on the. national plank of the Democratic party," he said. 
1926 

WILLIAM "BUD" BARR and JOHN HAMLING, '25, former track stars, were visitors on the campus re­cently. 
1927 

WATTS EICHER has been ap­pointed secretary of the entertain­ment committe of the League of American Citizens of Foreign De­scent. Probably the publicity on Notre Dame's cosmopolitan team rec­ommended a Notre Dame man for the job. 
1928 WATCH FOR BUCKLEY'S RE­UNION ANNOUNCEMENTS! 
ART DENCHFIELD sends a post­card from Paraguay, asking to be re­membered to the Class. Art spent Christmas in Guami land and if the native on the post-card is a sample Art ought to have some great tales for the Reunion. 
1929 

CHARLES CASEY, '25, sends the following interesting item of another legal triumph for '29: 
"The Democratic landslide put an­other Notre Dame man into office at Mason City, county seat of a strong Republican county in Iowa. A first degree murder case constituted a busy beginning for M. L. LARRY MASON, who began his term as county r ­torney of Cerro Gordo county in Jan­uary. Larry takes the office vacated by a staunch Republican who held the position for six years." 
1930 

The January issue was right up to the standard—very interesting from cover to cover. I am enclosing a few items in case you find it possible to edit another number in the near fu­ture. 
All of mv room mates are doing well—WATTS EICHER slips us the inside news about the Democrats and it will not be long now until they have things humming. 
HARRY FRANCIS was in the city for the Automobile Show and came in to talk things over. Harry is now selling cars for Raymond P. Scott, Inc., of Ardmore, Pa. He also finds time to continue his law studies and during the summer he plays his four or five baseball games a week. 
LARRY "PINKY" COTTER of Buffalo has been working with the 
Personal Finance Company in the Bronx. 
TOM CUNNINGHAM is now in the Insurance and Surety Bond business being associated with the John F. Curry Agency on Pine Street. 
CON CAREY successfuUy com­pleted the New York Bar Examina­tion this fall and is practicing at Saranac Lake, N. Y.. his home town. 
RAY McCOLLUM of Montclair re­cently married Miss Frances Ennis and they are living on 83rd Street in Jackson Heights, New York. Ray is busy selling coal around this city. 
From East Orange we hear that GEORGE HEWSON and the former Miss Eileen Cook now boast of a baby boy. George is completing his medi­cal studies at St. Louis University this year. 
-4LRT PARISIEN stopped in for a visit a few weeks ago. Art is going to try to teach some of the New England boys how to toss those touchdown passes. 
The news of Eddie Collins in Tuc­son is very encouraging and Eddie expects to be back in Chicago before long. The team saw him while on their way to the Coast. His brother "CHUCK," '25, was on for the coaches meeting. 
HAL LOUGHLIN, ex. '31, and JIM WARD, '32, are stepping along wtih the Aetna Life Insurance Com­pany here. 
The Acme Fast Freight, Inc. has put BERNIE GARBER on their pay roll. He w^ill be among friends with that organization. 
DICK DONOGHUE is going well with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer pictures. He is now in Washington, D. C. 
JERRY "RED" HARRINGTON is practicing law in Sioux City, Iowa. 
BILL BIRMINGHAM is in business with his father, who is a cattle broker in Sioux City, Iowa. 
From Cincinnati the latest news is that BERNARD HUGGER, '29, took time oif from his job with the Ameri­can Airways, Inc. and strolled up the aisle to start a happy married life. 
JACK BOEHMER and JACK HEILKER are studying Law at Xavier University in Cincinnati. 
BOB HUGHES is passing his time with a brokerage firm in that city. 
ED SLICK of Pittsburgh and Miss Ella Block of South Bend were wed recently. 
ED MEHREN, '31, is on a ranch in Arizona. 
JOHN GANNON, '31, of Pelham is continuing his studies at Columbia University. 
JIM RORKE, '31, is selling for the Travelers Insurance Co. 
JIM STACK, '26, cut short his in­
terne here when his father died just before Christmas. 
D I X R E U N I O N S ARTHUR C. BERGEN, ,'31, is 
studying Law at Fordham  
JUNE 2, 3, and 4,1933  a JACK JORDAN, '32, has a job with  brokerage iirm here.  
JACK ADAMS, '26, has been busy  
organizing the Mercier Club in Mont­ 
clair.  Jack was one of the James A.  
CLASS  SECBETAKIES  NOTE!  CLASS  MEMBERS  NOTE!  Farley'party at N. D. for theball banquet, Jan. 16.   foot­ 
MAKE YOUR  PLANS  ACCORDINGLY!  . CHARLEY SULLIVAN is working for the Frig^daire Sales Corp. His  
Tile line oS l/cars al t/ic tojt iiiarffin dcsi(jnati:& the years  in which  reunions  arc held.  The  cotuinn  wife,  son,  and  he  are  living  in  
of  figures doicn  the  left  margin  designates  the  class  year  or  year  of  graduation.  Yonkers. PRANKIE  BON, '26, is in Wash­ 
1933 1934 1935 1936 1937 1938 3939 19401939 1938 1937   1941 1942 1943 1944 1939 1938 1937  ington as Secretary to Senator Carey of Wyoming and is living at the ' Broadmore Hotel. DR. JERRY HAYES, '26, is saUing  
1936  1936  for Europe during March.  (Some of  
1935  1935  the  fellows  here  wonder  if  it  is  a  
1934  1934  honeymoon trip.)  
1933 1932 1931 1930  1933 1932 1931 1930  1932 1931 1930  WALTER O'KEEFE took Clifton Webb's place in "Flying Colors" for a short time and made a good hit.  
1929  1929  1929  1929  PAUL CASTNER, '23, was in town  
1928 1928  1928  1928  on business last week.  
1927 1926 1926  1927 1926  1927 1926  So long,  Bemie.  
1925 1925 1924 1924  1925 1924  1925 1924  A  card from  HAROLD N. SIMP­ 
1923 1923  1923  1923  SON  from  Ocean  Springs,  Miss.  
1922  1922  1922  1922  brings news from the South.  
1921 1920 1919 1918 1917 1916 1915  1921 1920 1919 1918 1917 1916 1915  1921 1921 1920 1S20 1919 1919 1918 1918 1918 1917 1917 1917 1916 1916 1915  RALPH GARZA, JR., is working as an architect in Monterey. MARCE­LINO GARZA has a government job in Saltaio. RENE DUNAND is in Mexico City working. ED LA­BARTHE is an architect in Mexico  
1914  1914  1914 1914  City.  BILL ALVAREZ MORPHY is  
1913  1913  1913  1913  contracting  for  the  Government  in  
1912  1912 1912  1912  Mexico  City.  A  buddy  and  I  are  
1911 1911 1910 1910 1910 1909 1909 1909 1908 1908 1908 1907 1907 1907 1906 1906 1906 1905 1905 1905 1904 1904 1904 1903 1903 1903  1911 1910 1909 1908 190 1906 1905 1904 1903  driving a Ford from Mexico City to Chicago. Started West from Chica­go Dec. 10th, to California on to Mex­ico City and returning to Chicago. Missed seeing some of the fellows in Los Angeles. Did not have their ad­dresses. Some tough roads in Mex­ico!  
1902 1901 1900 1899 1898  1902 1901 1900 1899 1898  1902 1901 1900 1899 1898  1902 1901 1900 1899 1898  HAROLD N ; SIMPSON, '30. W. KENNEDY JONES of Nash­ville, Tennessee was in the office Jan­uary 19th on his way through town.  
1897  1897  1897  
1896  1896  1896  1932  
1895  1895  1895  GABRIEL E. MORAN who for  a  
1894 1893 1892 1891  1894 1893 1892 1891  1894 1894 1893 1893 1892 1892 1891  time was employed on the Boulder Dam project has returned to the Uni­versity to work.  
1890  1890  1890  1890  A  letter  from  CHARLES  W.  
1889 1889 1889 1888 1888 1888 1888 1887 1887 1887 1887 1886 1886 1886 1886 1885 1885 1885 1885 1884 1884 1884 1883 1883 1883 1883 1882 1882 1882 1881 1881 1881 1880 1880 1880 1879 1879 1879 1878 1878 18781  1889 1888 1887 1886 1885 1884 1883 1882 1881 1880 1879  CROCKETT, JR., who is with the Guaranty Bank and Trust Co., Alex­andria, La., says among other things: "As far as news from this part of the country is concerned, there is none to amount to anything. DICK ESCU­DIER is still in Lafayette, doing I know not what. JOE McKEAN is working for his father, while I am associated with the Guaranty Bank which I hope will be permanent."  

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNUS 



A Light Beam TALKS 
rRO M the flickering light of a neon tube on the sicyl'ne of New 
• York City, a speech was sent to the S. S. President Hoover, 3000 feet away. The small neon tube changed the electric impulses from a microphone into light waves, which were directed to the ship in a narrow beam. A photoelectric tube in the center of a receiving mirror on the ship changed the light impulses back into sound, and the speech was heard on board. 
The use of light that can be heard, and of sound that can be seen, has many applications. It can be used for speech communication,- it can serve in fog to guide aircraft on their course and into port/and it can be used for radio and television broadcasting. 
The development of future forms of transmission, whether in sound or light waves, will largely be the responsibility of college-trained General Electric engineers. To-day, these men are planning, pro­ducing, and testing electric equipment which will help maintain General Electric's leadership in its field. 

GENERAL # ELECTRIC 
XlL LEAF of Bright Tobacco or of Kentucky Burley Tobacco has in it about 27% in weight of stem. The stem is woody. It does not contain the same in­gredients as the tobacco. It does not burn like tobacco. 
There would be necessarily a sort of rankness or bitterness about the smoke from the stem. Tliis 27% in weight of stem, therefore, is removed before the leaf tobacco is used in Chesterfields. 
Everytliing is done that can be done to make Chest­erfield milder and taste better. 
© :933. LIGGETT & MVEKS TOBACCO CO . 

