The Archives  
of  
The University of Notre Dame  
607 Hesburgh Library  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
574-631-6448  


archives@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Archives: Alumnus 

RALLVLSONS 
iUI 

NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNUS 
m
i 
'-1^^ 
^J' -J -t 

'U?^ 

Ji-. 

VOLUME 39 NUMBER 5 NOVEMBER ' 1961 


ALUMNI ASSOCIATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 

Officers 

Sditorial Comment 
JOHN C. 0'CoKsoR,'3S...Jlonorary President 
WALTER L. FLEMIXG, JR., '40 President PAUL J. Cusn:.N-G,'31 Fund Vice-President JAMES J. B\-RNE,'43 Club Vice-President 
W. EDMUND SHEA, '23.-..Class Vice-President JAMES E. ARMSTRONG, '25 
Executive Secretary 
Directors to 1962 
JAMES J. BYRNE, '43 Byrne Plywood Co. Roj'al Oak, Michigan 
PAUL J. GUSHING, '31 Hydraulic Dredging Co. Oakland, California 
WALTER L. FLEMING^ JR., '40 Fleming & Sons, Inc. 
P.O.
 Box 1291, Dallas, Texas 

W.
 EDMUND SHEA, '23 Third National Bank Bldg. Dayton, Ohio 



Directors to 1963 
MAURICE CARROLL^ '19 5743 Dehnar Blvd. St. Louis 12, Missouri 
ROGER J. HUTER, '40* Huter-Quest Co. 833 W. Main St. Louisville, Kentucky 
WILLIAM P. MAHCNEY, JR., '38 612 Arizona Bank Bldg. Phoenix, Arizona 
HARRY J. MEHRE, '22 686 Greenwood Ave., N.E. Atlanta 6, Georgia 


Directorsto 1964 
JOHN P. DEMPSEY, '49 Kidder, Peabody & Co. 123 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 
PATRICK A. DOUGHERTY-, '50 4909 34th Avenue, S. Minneapolis, Minnesota 
WILLIAM H . FALLON, '37 18 Boston Post Rd. Larchmont, New York 
OLIVER H . HUNTER, '43 F.B.I., P.O. Box 23 New Castle, Pennsylvania 

WALTER 
* Appointed FLEMING  to fill unexpired tcim of George Con­

JAMES BYRNE Club Activities
nor, '48, who resigned under pressure of busines. 
W. EDMUND SHEA Class Activities


Chairmen of the 1961 Committees 

PAUL GUSHING 
Executive
Alumni Fundy Foundation and Gifts 

JAMES J. BYRNE Preparatory Schools 
JOHN DEMPSEY. Placement and Job Counseling 
W. EDMUND SHEA Inter-Alumni Affairs WILLIAM MAHONEY, JR 
Prestige and Public Relations 

MAURICE CARROLL 
.Jieligion and Citizenship 

W. EDMUND SHEA AND JAMES B'i-RNE.. 
Nominations HARRY MEHRE Budget and Finance WILLIAM MAHONEY, JR Jlesolutions 
This magazine is publislied bi-monthly by the University of Notre Dame, Noti« Dame, Ind. Entered as second class mat­ter Oct. 1, 1939, at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Ind. under the act o( Aug. 24, 1912. 


from your Alumni Secretary 

Do you get the feeling that fund­raising is currently a grim and unre­lenting obsession in the Notre Dame family picture? 
Well, I am not about to tell you that it is not serious, not vital, and not unrelenting. But — 
I think we ought to breathe a little in spite of it. The grocery bill is grim and unrelenting. But it would be a sad family tliat never enjoyed a meal be­cause of it. 
The challenge, for example, (when yoii live with it daily) often suggests colorful possibilities that the leaders frown on. I don't expect to get this past tile counsel, so we might as well put it on the jungle drums for you. 
Lots of thought has been given to an appropriate separation of the demo­cratic donor into various segments of democracy depending on the size of his gift. None of us like this, because ac­tually any donor in good faith and ef­fort, should stand shoulder to shoulder »vith his fello^v. 
But in my tossing nights I have dwelt on a group of Societies (stemming from the old Societies tliat once provided the campus extracurricular outlets), which are historically reminiscent, personally inspiring, inherently significant, and only the amounts are changed to pro­tect the innocent. (Amounts suggested are annual gift pledges.) 
I. "The Theodore M. Hesburgh As­tronaut Society." This would be the symbolic group in which would be the donors of $1,000 and up, and up . . . and up . . . and up, etc., up! 
II. "The John J. Cavanaugh Lead­ership Society." This group would pro­vide the answer to the question, "Where are the Catholic Astors, Vanderbilts, Aga Khans, etc?" In this great group would be the donors of $500 to $1,000. 
III. "The James A. Burns First Mil­lion Society." This group, donors of 
$300 to $500, would hark back to Ute University's famous first Endowment C Drive, which proved that the first mil­lion is not necessarily the hardest. 
IV.
 "The John W. Cavanaugh Ora­torical Society." This group of donors of $100 to $300, would commemorate one of the most eloquent of Notre Dame's Presidents, not by eloquence alone, but by their belief in the cor­rollary virtue, that money talks! 

V.
 "The John A. Zahm Explorers^ Society." This group, many of them venturing away from their native $5 to $10 habitat into the $25 to $100 territories beyond, could write a stirring page into this program, possibly titled "Up the Average with Pen and Check­book." 


VI. "The Edward Sarin Hot Brick Society." I hope this will be a small but valiant group, dedicated simply to clos­ing the gap between 100% participa-6 tion and whatever figure the other So­cieties may have reached. It will face the ruins of its own budgets, reach into the smoking rubble and come up with a pledge that if all were gone, the budget would be started over again. 
There you have some of the thinking that the textbooks frown upon. But if you read as much into the few lines and suggestions as they convey to me as I pass them along, this will be an| enjoyable mental exercise, with tradi­tional, historical, sentimental, modem and most practical connotations. 
I am prompted to add my needle to your giving in this lighter vein by the fact that in the Alumni Survey, you said that your primary reason for giving to Notre Dame is Loyalty; your second reason is Interest; your third reason is Gratitude. 
Not until more than three out of four alumni had given these reasons di(^ we come to the fourth alunmus whc^ said his motivation was conviction, so­
licitation, or other factual formula fac­) tors. 
Keep the Societies ip mind. You will 
have to apply for your own member­ship, accept or blackball yourself, ini­tiate yourself, and probably meet in a rocking chair. But I am sure that some­time, when this campaign is successfully over, and Notre Dame is doing the job that destiny indicates, the Societies will gather with their sponsors and shoot an e.xtra gleam oflF the Golden Dome to light the way for those then near it. , J. E. A. 



I NOTRE r DAME ' ALUMNUS 
I Vol. 39, No. 5 • November, 1961 
I 
j Editor James E. Armstrong, '25 
j Managing Editor John F. Laughlin '48 Columnist 
• Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '41 ! Photographer M. Bruce Harlan, '49 
In This Issue: 
Editorial opposite C-Minus-Zero page 1 Challenge Appeal Underway Give'Em Both Burners page 2 James Armstrong, '25 

What Notre Dame Can Be page 5 0 George N. Shuster, '15 Back to School page 6 . . . with a difference Your Child Prepares page 8 Eugene S. Wilson Law School page' 10 Man and the Moment page 11 Rev. Thomas O'Donnell Club News page 13 Sublime Tradition page 25 
Class News page 29 ^President's Letter Back cover Walter I. Fleming, Jr., '40 




C'minus'ZEROl 
Challenge General Appeal Approaching Maximum Thrust After Nationwide Countdown 
The legendary "spirit of Notre Dame" and a special, 5,000-mile tele­phone network linked alumni and friends throughout the country on Oc­tober 17 in a rally launching the gen­eral appeal of the University's $18,000,­000 Challenge Program. 
The closed-circuit program, which emanated largely from the North Dining Hall on the campus, was heard by Notre Dame men, their families and guests attending Notre Dame Chal­lenge Rallies in fifty-four cities from coast-to-coast. An additional sLxty cities not on the telephone network held rallies built around local programs. The largest gathering was at McCormick Place in Chicago where more than 1,400 attended. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame president, headed a roster of University officials, trustees, promi­nent alumni and campaign leaders who spoke to members of the nationwide Notre Dame family. Father Hesburgh also e.xplained the importance of the $18,000,000 fund drive and charted Notre Dame's future in a film shown at each of the rallies. 
James E. Armstrong, e.\ecutive secre­tary of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso­ciation, was master of ceremonies for the program, introducing speakers from New York, Detroit, Chicago, Dallas and San Francisco as well as from the campus. Music was provided by the Notre Dame Glee Club directed by Prof. Daniel H. Pedtke. 
J. Peter Grace, Jr., national chair­man of Notre Dame's greatest fund­raising eflFort, spoke from New York, calling on every alumnus and friend of Notre Dame to make a three-year pledge "for an amount as large as his 
means will permit." Joseph I. O'NeiU, Jr., of Midland, Te.\., who will direct the personal so­licitation of all Notre Dame alumni and friends this fall, reminded Notre Dame men that they are being asked "to give substantially more than we may have been in the habit of giving to the familiar annual fund." Speaking from Dallas, Walter Flem­ing, president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, said "Notre Dame has the dreams and the hopes. We are the ones who are called to make the dreams come true, to give life to the hopes." By participating in the fund drive, each alumnus "can write a few paragraphs in a great chapter of Notre Dame's history," he said. 
Tl 
Mfy'|,^RKiiJJ"j I'^'SfS' 
Kolre I Dtame I 
OCT. || 


W II 

-L^:e:!<^:-:^-. 
Mrs. Ernest M. Morris, of South Bend, chairman of the Woman's Ad­visory Council at the University, spoke for the wives, mothers and sweethearts of Notre Dame men everywhere. "Like women the world over and down through the years," she said, "we look to our men for victory — especially Notre Dame men." 
Others who appeared on the closed circuit program from the campus rally included Rev. Edmund P, Joyce, Rev. Chester A. Soleta, Rev. John E. Walsh, Bernard J. Voll, Oliver Carmichael, Dr. George N. Shuster, Edward W. Krause, Dr. William N. Burke, and Christopher Buckley. 
Those areas participating in Notre Dame Rallies (according to informa­tion available at press time) • were: 
*AKRON, Ohio ALBUQUERQUE, New Mexico ALLENTOWN, Pennsylvania 
(at Bethlehem) 
'Denotes telephone hook-up. (Continued on page 4) 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 




GIVE 'EM BOTH BURNERS 
First Stage is Amount, More Generous Than Ever Before, Over TAree fears; Second Blast is Record-Breaking Participation by Every Notre Dame Man; Don't 'Phase Out' Until You See the Gleam in Their Eye! 
By JIM ARMSTRONG, '25 

T
HE ALL-OUT General Appeal phase of the $18,000,000 Challenge pro­gram for the future, which began offi­cially on October 17, needs the record-breaking generosity of the alumni and friends of the University. 
There are two major divisions of our effort among our alumni. 
TH E TARGET IN AJIOUNT 

The first is to bring home the vital fact that this is a challenge «'hich can­not be met with the traditional much appreciated majority habit of contri­buting $25 or under. 
This is a challenge wliich can be met if each alumnus, for the three year period involved will sacrifice to make his gift represent a major increase in his customary annual gift. (This will be credited as the Annual Alumni Fund gift, however.) 
According to our estimates, Notre Dame must raise at least three times its annual giving of previous years, or a three-year pledge implication of at least nine times the usual habitual annual gift. 
Now, what happens at the end of three years? \Vill you be committed beyond that? Must you sustain this three-year level further? 
No good is ser\'ed by saying that fund-raising will be ended after three years. To survive and compete and provide a Notre Dame of the future that will uphold the Notre Dame tradi-_ tions of the past and present, there will be no end to fund raising. 
But — and this is sincere and im­portant!— no period of fund-raising has ever held the significance of this three-year effort. 
By it, and dirough the Ford Foun­dation's unique and magnificent gift of $6,000,000 if we raise $12,000,000, Notre Dame will become a "blue chip" university. We \vdll achieve a stature that will bring us into the circles where foundations, and corporations, and ^ philanthropists look first when major assistance is to be offered. This new stature will not end our own efforts. 


NOWf 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
but it will definitely and permanently 
"enhance them, so long as we reflect in progress the faith that brought us there. 
This then is our first major target 
— the raising of our amounts during these crucial years. More and more alumni have been increasingly gener­ous. But in the last Alumni Fund year, more than 11,000 gifts, of a total of just over 14,000 gifts, were $25 and under. 
You have received literature, or your 
^soliciting volunteer can advise you, on ways of arriving at an appropriate gift for you. It is our conviction, based on the alumni income status, that at least half of our alumni could do much bet­ter, with a little thought and effort, than the gifts they have been giving. 
This is not retroactive criticism — but projected hope. 
TH E TARGET IN PARTICIPATION 
And it brings up the second major diwsion of our effort — pardcipation. 
• Notre Dame has achieved an envi­able record in alumni participation in our Annual Alumni Fund. VVe have reached as much as 52%. And we have frequently been among the top ten in colleges and universities in this comparative category. 
^Ve have never padded our books, nor sought easy ways to increase our statistics, and we have even been ne­glectful of what our alumni profession calls LYBUNTS — alumni who gave 
•Last Year But Not This. As a result, we feel that our total percentage of alumni who have given in one year or another is probably much higher than the single year rec­ord of 52%. Princeton and Dartmouth have Jong waged annual battles in the van of the comparative participation figures, achieving more than 70% each, along with of course notably substantial an­nual funds in amounts. 
0 VVe believe that there is no reason why the Notre Dame alumnus is any 

STUDENT ACTIVITIES BUILDING, a geodesic dome for concerts, dances, athletic and other student events, is under construction north of the East Campus "Vetville" area to replace the Navy Drill Hall, which had to be razed in acres of excavation for the Afemorial Library. 
less aware of the financial program of his University, or any less willing to give. 
VVe believe that there is no reason why the effort to increase our amount of individual giving should in any way lessen our participation. 
VVe believe that if ever)' alumnus who has ever given will pardcipate in some way in this three-year program, even if he can give no more, it will substandally increase any participa­tion figure we have ever reflected. 
And we not only believe but know that if alumni who have not given at all to Notre Dame would, in this criti­cal program, recognize the opportuni­ties— if not the obligations — which are inherent in this great appeal, we could break all records ever achieved by any major college or university. 
Sometimes Father Hesburgh's insist­ence on 100%, on the Number One spot, on excellence, seems a little less than realistic, especially when com­parisons show that our status is good. 
Then I hark back to one of my fa­
vorite philosophers. Bloody Mary, who 
had a song in "South Pacific" that car­
ried a lot of implication: ". . . if you 
don't have a dream, how you goima 
make a dream come true?" 
And the thought that on some occa­
sion in the history of Notre Dame, 
every Notre Dame man might find it 
in his heart, and in his reason, to offer 
his ind'vidual help to the University, 
in a great and constructive endeavor 
that would affect its whole future fa­
vorably, is really not an unreasonable 
one, certainly not beyond dreaming. 
This is that endeavor! 
Now is the time! 
You are the alumnus! 
In the ALUMNUS, over a thirty-
five-year editorial span, I have offered 
you appeals to the heart, to the mind, 
to the spiritual, to the fraternal, to the 
enjoyable. This is an appeal for money, 
true, but it is so much more than that, 
in its implications for your University 
and its destiny, that I offer, it without 
apology and wthout doubt of your 
acceptance of the challenge. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
RAIUES (Continued from page 1) ALTON, Illinois (at St. Louis, Mo.) ALTOONA, Pennsylvania (at JohnstowTi) ANDERSON, Indiana ASHTABULA, Ohio *ATLANTA, Georgia AUBURN, New York (at Syracuse) BALTIMORE. Mar>'land (Oct. 18) BATTLE CREEK, Michigan BAY CITY, Michigan (at Midland) BEAUMONT, Texas (at Houston) *BENT"ON HARBOR, Michigan BETHLEHEM, Pennsylvania BINGHAMTON, New York 
•BOSTON,
 Massachusetts BRADFORD. Pennsylvania (at 01ean,'N.Y.) 

BRIDGEPORT, Connecticut (at Hartford) 

•BUFFALO,
 New York BURLINGTON, Iowa *BUTLER, Pennsj'lvania BUTTE, Montana *CALUMET REGION, Indiana 

(at Hammond) CANTON, Ohio (October 16) CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa CHATTANOOGA, Tennessee CHESHIRE, Connecticut 

•CHICAGO.
 Illinois 

•CINCINNATI.
 Ohio 

•CLEVELAND,
 Ohio COLORADO SPRINGS, Colorado 

•COLUMBUS,
 Ohio CONCORD, New Hampshire 

•DALLAS,
 Te-xas 

•DAVENPORT,
 Iowa DAYTON, Ohio DEARBORN, Michigan 

•DEN\'ER,
 Colorado 

•DES
 MOINES, Iowa 

•DETROIT.
 Michigan (at Dearborn) DIXON, Illinois DU BOIS, Pennsylvania 

(at Johnstown) EAST LANSING, Michigan ELKHART, Indiana ELMIRA. New York EL PASO, Texas ELYRIA, Ohio (at Cleveland) 

•ERIE,
 Pennsylvania EVANSVILLE, Indiana 


FLINT, Michigan 
•FORT
 LAUDERDALE, Florida (at Pompano Beach) 

•FORT
 WA\TSrE, Indiana FORT WORTH, Texas (at Dallas) 

•GRAND
 RAPIDS, Michigan GREEN BAY, Wisconsin HAMILTON, Ohio (at Cincinnati) HAMMOND, Indiana 

•HARTFORD,
 Connecticut 


HARTFORD CITY, Indiana (at Muncie) 

•HOUSTON.
 Texas 

•INDIANAPOLIS,
 Indiana JACKSON. Michigan JACKSONVILLE, Florida JOHNSTOWTSr. Pennsylvania JOLIET, Illinois 

•KANSAS
 CITY, Missouri KOKOMO, Indiana LA CROSSE, ^Visconsin LANSING, Michigan 

(at East Lansing) LORAIN, Ohio (at Cleveland) 

•LOS
 ANGELES. California 

•LOUISVILLE,
 Kentucky MAINE MARION, Indiana 

•MEMPHIS,
 Tennessee 

•MIAMI,
 Florida MICHIGAN CITY, Indiana MIDLAND, Michigan 

•MILWAUKEE,
 Wisconsin 

•MINNEAPOLIS,
 Minnesota MOLINE, Illinois (at Davenport. Iowa) MONONGAHELA VALLEY, 

Pennsyh^ania (at Pittsburgh) MONROE, Michigan MUNCIE. Indiana MUSKEGON, Michigan 


•NEWARK,
 New Jersey NEW CASTLE, Pennsylvania NEW HAVEN, Connecticut 

•NEW
 ORLEANS, Louisiana 

•NEW
 YORK CITY, New York OKLAHOMA CITY, Oklahoma OLEAN, New York OMAHA, Nebraska ORLANDO, Florida PEORIA, Illinois 

•PHILADELPHIA,
 Pennsylvania 

•PHOENIX,
 Arizona 

•PITTSBURGH,
 Pennsylvania 

•PLAINFIELD,
 New Jersey POMPANO BEACH, Florida PORT ARTHUR, Texas 

(at Houston) 


•PORTLAND,
 Oregon 

•PROVIDENCE,
 Rhode Island RACINE, Wisconsin READING, Pennsylvania RICHMONT), Indiana RICHMOND, Virginia 


•ROCHESTER, New York  _  
ROCKFORD, Illinois  •  
ROCK ISLAND, Illinois  
(at Davenport, Iowa)  
SACRAMENTO, California  

SAGINAW, Michigan (at Midland) ST. JOSEPH, Michigan (at Benton Harbor) 

•ST.
 LOUIS, Misssouri 

•ST.
 PAUL, Minnesota 

•ST.
 PETERSBURG, Florida SALINA, Kansas (at ^Vichita) SALT LAKE CITY, Utah SAN ANTONIO, Texas • 

•SAN
 DIEGO, CaUfomia 

•SAN
 FRANCISCO, California 

•SCHENECTADY,
 New York SCRANTON, Pennsylvania 

•SEATTLE,
 Washington SHARON, Pennsylvania (at Youngstown, Ohio) SHARPESVILLE, Pennsylvania 

(at Youngstown, O.) SIOUX FALLS, South Dakota 


•SOUTH
 BEND, Indiana 

(at Notre Dame) • SPOKANE, Washington SPRINGFIELD, Illinois SPRINGFIELD, Massachusetts STERLING, Illinois (at Di.xon) 


•SYRACUSE,
 New York TACOMA, Washington (at Seattle) TAMPA, Florida (at St. Petersburg) TERRE HAUTE, Indiana TITUSVILLE, Pennsylvania 

(at Erie) 


•TOLEDO,
 Ohio TUCSON, Arizona f 

•TULSA,
 Oklahoma UNIONVILLE, Ohio (at Ashtabula) UTICA, New York VINCENNES, Indiana WARREN, Ohio (at Youngstown) 

•WASHINGTON,
 D.C. WATERBURY, Connecticut 

(at Cheshire) WHEELING, West Virginia 


•WICHITA,
 Kansas WILKES-BARRE, Pennsylvania 

(at Scran ton) _ WILLIAMSPORT, Pennsylvania • 


•YOUNGSTOWN,
 Ohio 


Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
•^^i^ssraj of genuine distinction? Two things can be said. First and foremost it must be a place of inquiry and scholarship which have significance 

What 

for the time in which we live. This is, as I have said and you 

Dante Can Be 

By GEORGE N. SHUSTER W .Assistant to the President 
(Condensed from a recent address by Dr. Shuster lo Chicago alumni.) 

J
UST ABOUT FIFT\- years ago — a longer time than it is pleasant to contemplate — a boy set out with his father in the earliest of Dodge models for a railroad station twelve miles away, from which trains took him through a night spent in waiting rooms and coaches to South Bend. .As he dozed away his dreams were haunted by a peculiar kind of dread because Father John Cavanaugh the first, then President of the University, had written to say that he would be on hand with a personal greeting. What was a shy Badger boy to say to so great a man, whose picture was in the papers 
^together with words from his speeches? That boy was I. But when 
" I got there, it was only the inimitable Brother Flo who ushered me into the dining hall and the furious, glorious hurly-burly which then was life at Notre Dame. The world around us was a simple one. Nobody dreamed that the United States was soon to become a world power. Had anyone told me that within a few years I would be sitting in a dugout in France with a gas-mask round my neck trying to pick up enemy telephone conversation I should have thought him as mad as not one hatter but two. Or three. 
But so it was to be. The nation has grown great and its great­ness is imperilled. Men of this nation have unwillingly learned the grim arts of war. Many of them laid their good lives down on alien fields. Some had scarce seen the Pacific Isles the names of which now dot our history than they died. .And others had their first glimpse of immortal Italy, and their last, on a gruesome beach­
-hea d like Anzio. Not a few fine Notre Dame lads were buried with them. Twice we .Americans struggled then to learn the arts of peace. We did not succeed very well. People wanted peace but there was none. It may well be that this was in part our fault. We had illusions and delusions. There was an absence of dedica­tion. There were softness and selfishness. We knew there was no room for these in a world which had spawned Hitler and Stalin, but many of us were soft and selfish anyway. Yet on the whole I think we were a sound and committed people. . . . 
Meanwhile Notre Dame has taken a long, deep look that has happened. It has asked; what is a university like ours to be in this particular time? Fortunately it is able to say rather contentedly, our undergraduate college has come a long way. This college is good — not perfect but good — good in terms of its faculty, its students, its parents, its alumni. Having had something to do dur­
^in g twenty years as with an academically first-rate institution, I can say without hesitation that Notre Dame, too, is good — so good indeed that it comes as a shock that even priest counselors in some Catholic high schools tell their gifted boys to go to Hari'ard or Princeton. Far be it from me to say anything which would detract from the excellence of these colleges. But Notre Dame is their peer, insofar as its undergraduate program is concerned, however much we may differ about certain aspects of that program. 
But it is now necessary to look at the University as a whole, .-ind to see how well it performs the duties of a university in the United States of the present hour. We must try to see imaginatively, creatively, as Father Hesburgh has, what it would mean to build a Catholic university in the fuUest sense of the term. This seeing and looking need not detract in the least from the value of what has been so sacrificially accomplished. It is just a matter of getting 
^ead y for the future, quite as industr)' and government prepare, or 
Shoul d prepare, for that. What, in a very few words, does it mean to become a university 
know, an era of dire peril for the nation. We have crossed a towering watershed in history. To say that mankind can now change this globe radically, sweepingly, as all previous ages could not change it is to make a trite remark.- Yet who really understands what is implied? The Roman Empire fused the tribes of Europe in a great culture already marvelous from a technological point of view. Today the whole world is undergoing an even far greater transformation with blinding speed. Air lanes and road ribbons make the Pygmies of Africa neighbors of folk in the Bronx or Chi­cago's West Side. One can go from here to Montevideo as quickly as I came from Wisconsin to Notre Dame. K face on a television screen can be seen around the world. 
We are in thb shift, almost terrifyingly in it, over our necks and beyond. For how the change occurs, with what wisdom and in what spirit of human companionship, is the fateful question. Since it is out of the research done by universities the world over that the change was bom, so also will what henceforth happens depend to a great extent on what they come to be. They are places in which at the deepest levels of understanding questions are asked and conversation is fostered about them and the answers given. The university is continuously asking, answering, at first tentatively, experimentally, and then with a measure of finality. It is also conversing about these things, teaching, carrying the discussion farther. That some of the possible answers can curdle the blood we know. The disaster which came from the skies upon Hiroshima can now come upon us, too. And if we visualize that some time the vast, almost incalculable masses of men in China were set in motion for conquest to the North and the South, there would enter history a colossus of power beside which the United States wotdd have the same stature as that of present-day France in relation to Russia. _ 
Second, the Catholic university must share in this inquiry and 
conversation if Catholics in a collective sense are to have a part 
in it. This they can and, of course, already do share as individuals. 
Yes, one can even imagine that they could do so secretly, with 
their identities concealed, as members of an intellectual ghetto. 
This would be good, too. But we at Notre Dame do not believe 
that this is what .American Catholics want. Certainly it is not what 
thoughtful educators generally desire. Here lies the significance 
of the Ford Foundation grant to Notre Dame. This was not made 
to help Catholicism. It was bom of a resolve to assist Catholics 
in doing something important for America. 
One thing certainly we all especially hope for. As this year of 1961 opened, leaders of Church and State reminded our people that the part to be played by each person among us in the drama of the time was a great, a solemn and yet also a heartening and human one. These leaders, whether they spoke as citizens or as prelates of the Church, were almost startlingly unanimous, though there had been no conference between them. It was their convic­tion that what we as a people do together will have strength, coherence and beauty only if each one of us assumes responsibility for what he himself does. .A tyrant may crack a whip against the background of murders and political prisons and so bring long queues of men and women into line with his resolve. He can wipe out the individual, think oiJy of blind obedience. 
Obviously a republic must perish if it reasons in this fashion. For a republic does not happen to come into being. It is the result of a cumulative investment of the legacy of the human person, as man having integrity and value not for his own sake alone but for the good of others as well. During the long medieval years when the Church's people thought of how they might regain and tran­scend the achievements of an antique Greco-Roman civilization which had fallen into ruin, they found in their owii Saints, in the Prophets of Israel and the great thinkers of Greece faith in the human person as the source from which civilization could arise. It was because of this learning and not of an accident that in England .Alfred the Great could so eloquently and effectively establish the Common Law from which in due time not only Magna Chaita came but also, slowly, the courage and strength to surmotmtthe tyranny of Tudor and Cromwellian times and to build that system of constitutional order in the spirit of which our own tradition of government was later on established. So towering is this monu­ment to the Catholic past that when Stalin gave the Russian State a constitution he copied the langtuge of the tradition, however sinister his deviations from it in practice may have been. 
(Continued on page 12) 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 -5 
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION began with visits to hall rectois. Here (from left) Rev. Frederick Ban-, C.S.C., meets freshmen Peter Seifert 
(Excelsior, Minn.), Arthur Erlich (Tenafly, N.J.) and Elmer Martin (Gilman, Mis.), all assigned to Farley Hall. (South Bend Tribune Photo.) 

Back to School 
NOTRE DAME BEGAN its 120th academic year Sept. 21 with a record enroll­ment, a major construction program underway and a refurbished golden dome atop the y\dministration Building. 
Fourteen hundred seventy-five fresh­men, representing 750 high schools throughout the country, arrived on the campus by September 16 to participate in a five-day orientation program. Up­perclassmen and graduate students swelled the student body to an all-time high of 6,500. 
Father Soleta Speaks 
The formal religious opening of the 1961-62 school year took place Sep­tember 24th with a Solemn Mass offered in Sacred Heart Church. Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., acting presi­dent, the celebrant, and the sermon was delivered by Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., vice-president for academic aflfairs. The entire University faculty marched in procession to the Gothic church for the rites. 
Students returning from summer va­cation inspected the two-acre excava­tion for the $18,000,000 Notre Dame Memorial Library under construction on the east side of the campus. The thirteen-story building, scheduled for completion in 1953, will house two mil­lion volumes and seat half the Uni­versity's undergraduates at one time. Nearing completion at the opposite edge of the campus were 108 apart­ments for married students and their families. 
More Buildings At least two other major construc­tion projects will be in progress during the school year. Work is underway on a $300,000 Student Activities Building, a geodesic dome in the northeast sector of the campus. Designed to accom­
J 
Returning students find | new large frosh class, 
new high enrollment, new regulations, new hall system, 

new veep and deans, new faculty members, new academic programs, | 
new campus a-building, even a new gleam on the Golden Dome 

with a difference^ 

modate up to 3,000 persons fo"- con­vocations and other major events, it will replace the wartime University Drill Hall which was razed to make-way for the new library. And a $2,­200,000 Radiation Laboratory will be built at Notre Dame by the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission beginning in December. 
Discipline Changes ' Affecting students more immediate­ly is a re\ased structure of student life 
jP'ff 
^^Z I--' 

mil 


r! tSIf 
i 
I 

FOUNDATION ANT) ALUMNI programs were introduced to the freshmen by their respective chiefs. Father John Walsh, Foundation director, listens to the remarks of Aliunni Secretary Annstrong. 


Observe Universal N.D. Communion Sunday on December 10, 7967 
 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 

_ which provides for fewer disciplinary 
* regulations and a new emphasis on personal responsibility. Each of Notre Dame's seventeen residence halls, in addition to a rector, will have a chap­lain whose full-time Job OTII be to counsel students in their spiritual and moral development. Carrying out the personal responsibility theme, Notre Dame's traditional "lights out" at mid­night or before has been dropped \vidi each student setting his own study curfew. 
Academic Developments Two academic developments effec­tive with the new school year are the creation of a department of pre-pro­fessional studies in the College of Science and the inauguration of a pro­gram leading to the Doctor of Philoso­phy degree in chemical engineering. Dr. LawTcnce Baldinger, associate dean of science, heads the new department 

which will coordinate the programs and activities of pre-medical, pre-dental and • other pre-professional students of the 
science school. A new freshman pro­gram is also in preparation. 
Major University appointments this fall involved Rev. Charles McCar­ragher, C.S.C., Nace-president for stu-

I dent affairs; Dr. Norman Gay, dean of the College of Engineering; and Dr. \Villiam Burke, dean of freshmen. Skty scholars and scientists are newly appointed to the faculty. 
S)-mbol Reburnishcd Dominating the entire campus is tlie statue of the Virgin Mary, "Notre Dame," atop the golden dome. Symbol of the University throughout the world and a landmark for miles around, the dome glistens brighter than ever with new gold leaf applied during the sum­mer months. 
Notre Dame's founder. Rev. Edward 

^Sorin, C.S.C., could hardly have en­visioned how his frontier school would become one of the great universities of the nation and the world. But in 1844, just two years after the University was founded, he said: 
"When this school. Our Lady's School, shall grow a bit more, I shall raise her aloft so that, without asking, all men shall know why we have suc-I ceeded here. To that lovely Lady, raised high on a Dome, a Golden 
•Dome, men may look and find the answer." 
"Secularism has come to dominate the culture of the West and recently to penetrate the rest of the world. We can be sure that the crucial need for edu­cation and research will simply ac­celerate its influence. Sometimes it seems that the world has been cut off from our spiritual and religious tra­dition. 
"Religion used to be the center of our culture and theology the center of academic life. Today, in spite of many public gestures, conferences and dia­logues, there is still an almost abnormal fear in general academic circles to admit real theological discussion; and religion is still dismissed to the private feelings and conduct of the individual. 
"In the Western World only one institution, more or less cfTectively and consciously, is still in touch with the power and comprehensiveness of our spiritual and religious tradition, the Catholic college and university. It is our special mission to preserve and strengthen that tradition, not in any rigid or static way but organically, helping it grow, to absorb and trans­form, to keep adapting itself, making itself effective at every moment of our time. . . . 
"Recently our University was com­mended publicly because it was sec­tarian in name only. If this means what it says, that we are not narrow and divisive, then we accept it humbly and gratefully. If it suggests that being Christian and Catholic really means nothing to us, then it is time to stop and look at ourselves." 
—Rev. Chester A. Soleta, C.S.C., Vice-President for Academic Affairs, at Mass, opening the 120th Academic Year 

PERSONNEL: 
Father McGrath Elevated 
.•\ thirty-seven-year-old Holy Cross priest 

has been elevated to the Roman Catholic hierarchy by Pope John XXIII. 
Rev. Mark Gregory McGrath, C.S.C., has been appointed Auxil­iar>- Bishop of Panama. The Bishop-elect has been stationed in San-
Ijj tiago, Chile, where he was a faculty member at St. George's College, 

conducted by the Holy Cross Fathers, and 
dean of the faculty of theology at the 
Catholic University of Chile. Bom Feb. 10, 1924, in .Ancon in the Canal Zone, the new bishop entered the no\ntiate of the Congregation of Holy Cross in September, 1942. He was graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1945 and then began four years of theological studies at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C. Father McGrath \vas ordained in Sacred Heart Church on the Notre Dame campus June 11, 1949. 
He then began several years of advanced study of theology, receiving the degree of Bachelor of Sacred Theology from the In­stitut Catholique in Paris (1950) and his licentiate and doctorate at the Angelicum in Rome (1953). Bishop McGrath is one of the founders and has been serving as editor of Theology and Life, a theological journal in Spanish. 
The new bishop is the fourth member of the Holy Cross Fathers' Indiana Prov­ince to be raised to the hierarchy within the past year. The others are Bishop Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., of Arecibo, Puerto Rico; Bishop Vincent McCauley, C.S.C, of Fort Portal, Uganda; and Auxiliary Bishop Theotonius Ganguly, C.S.C, of Dacca, East Pakistan. 

Powers Accepts New Job 
Allan J. Powers, an assistant director of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, has resigned to accept an appointment as vice president in charge of development at Mercy College, Detroit, Mich. Powers, who has been a member of the Notre Dame staff since 
,•< n^^py,;^rr-.~—. 1953, assumed his new i^ V'^KHMHIEI duties October 1st. 
Mercy College, found­ed in 1941, is operated by the Religious Sisters of Mercy. It has an enrollment of appro.ximately 800 young women. Powers will administer the school's public relations and fund-raising programs. 
A native of Richmond, Va., Powers is a 1951 Notre Dame graduate, and took graduate studies in speech at Columbia University, New York, N.Y. He is a co-founder and former president of the South Bend Civic Theatre and for nearly ten years has directed choreography for Uni­versity Theatre musicals at Notre Dame. 
Powers is married to the former Marilyn Dolores Friel of Rumson, N.J. They have a daughter, Christine Mary. 

Cooney Joins Foundation Staff 
James M. Cooney, a 1959 graduate in communication arts, has joined the Foun­dation staff as an assistant director assigned 
•^rwgl to Illinois (outside 
'"'-^ Chicago), Kansas, Mis­souri, New Mexico, and Oklahoma. Richard J. Bowes, '38, formerly assigned to those states, continues to be re­sponsible for an area including Arizona, Cali­fornia, Colorado, Ne­\-ada, and Utah. 

Cooney, a former radio-television an­nouncer for South Bend's station WNDU and -•Mbuquerque's KQUE, also worked briefly for the F.B.I. while attending the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. .A veteran performer \vith Notre Dame's University Theater, he has been a director of the South Bend Civic Theater since graduation. 
.\ native of Chicago, he married Anne Rody of Elkhart, Indiana in 1959. The Cooneys now have a year-old daughter, Kathleen. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November^ 1961 
N
OT LONG ago, tile head of a large like a deer." His elaboration of this testing agency told college edu­philosophy was so convincing that I cated parents of college bound stu­asked and received permission to hunt dents: "Enough is now known about with him the next day. What a time evaluating individual abilities and we had! He studied the wind, the achievements so that any parent who ground, the trails, and then he ex­really wants to may view his child as plained to me how with such weather the child will be viewed by the col­conditions the deer would probably do lege." this. He stationed me on one old log 
Now this advice seems to be sound 

and he went in another direction. and simple. After all, you do receive To make a long story short, I heard regular reports from schools on your a lot of shooting around me; I saw a child's achievement in each subject. few deer killed by other hunters, but National agencies which offer stand­the expert and I never saw a deer. ardized tests pro\'ide \\'ith the indi­Apparently some deer were thinking vidual test results a manual of inter­as humans think. pretation, so that you may know not only your child's scores, but how these 
H
ERE ARE some of the reasons why compare with state or national groups you can't think as an Admission of students. 
Committee thinks: You and your child can also discover 
1. Admission Committees act dififer­through material in the school guid­entiy each year according to the quan­ance office information on the range tity and "qualit}'" of applicants and of test scores in freshman classes at the needs of the institutions involved. 

many colleges. 
The ever swelling host of candidates In spite of all tliis information, you has brought rapid changes in admis­can't think as an Admission Commit­sion standards at ever)' institution. 
tee thinks, you can't outguess an Ad­mission Committee, and if you tr)' you 2. The weight given marks and test may expose your child and yourself to scores varies so much among institu­needless disappointment. tions that even veteran school coun­
This counsel to tiiink as an Admis­selors hesitate to make firm predictions sion Committee thinks reminds me of 
on individual cases. I have heard ad­the advice I received once in a deer mission officers for Yale, Wellesley and hunting lodge on the night before the Harvard state that test scores do not opening of the deer season, when a have the importance they once had 
veteran deer hunter explained to me in selection procedures. The reason is that "the way to get a deer is to think that at the most popular institutions too many candidates look alike when 
• Copyright 1961 by Editorial Projects for Educa­
measured by either marks or test scores. 
tioHj Inc. All rights reserved. 

What you con do 
to help him when 


YOUR CHILD PREPARES for COLLEGE" 
By EUGENE S. WILSON 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 

3.
 You can't know from year to ­year how much weight admission com-" mittees will give to certain other fac­tors: i.e., school and geographical dis­tribution, extracurricular achievement in art, music, drama, sports or com­munity service, and occupational choice (some institutions limit the number in a class who want medicine, engineering, math or science). 

4.
 You may be able to understand the strengths and weaknesses of your college bound child, but you can't know the quantity and quality of the f other candidates at the college chosen by your child. At co-educational col­leges girls often meet higher competi­tive admission standards than boys — and within a university some schools have higher entrance requirements than otiiers. 


Whether your child is accepted or rejected at any college depends not only on his credentials, but even more on how his credentials compare with those of the other applicants. _ 
What then can you do when you want to help your child prepare for college — when you want to guide your child to an institution that will stimulate him fully? 
T
HERE IS only one safe workable program regardless of your child's test scores, his marks, or his otiier achievements. This is a program that introduces your child to the mysteries of the world and to the excitement of ^ discover)'. This program should be started as soon as your child begins to talk and read. 
Most children are born with a full measure of curiosit)'. They want to know what is going on about them and, as you know, the early years are filled with "What?" and "Why?" and "Where?" 
If you have the time and die pa­tience to answer these questions, you will nourish this curiosity that is the tap root of all learning. Only the# curious learn. 
Your child won't be many years old before you will encounter the first question you can't answer. You can shrug your shoulders and say, "Go away and stop bothering me," or '"I don't know," or "Let's find out." 
If you have tlie time and patience to lead your child in his probe of the unkno^vn, in his search for knowledge, you will encourage the maintenance of a habit of inquiry. You may also_ rediscover for yourself the fun of* learning. 
But this nourishment of curiosity 

•means that a mother cannot be too occupied with community affairs, so­cial teas or bridge parties, and that on some mornings she may have to leave the beds unmade or the dishes unwashed until naptime, and Dad may have to miss a golf game. Priorities must be established. 
Today there are so many forces working against the development and maintenance of curiosity in a child, forces like the radio, television, the 
^automobile and himdreds of sporting events. All too often curiosity is throt­tled by spectatoritis, by parents who are too busy, and even, alas, by the rigidities of the school system and the desire of teachers to cover a certain amount of material so that students will do well on their tests. 
If you want to help your child get into a college, you will always be aware of what your child is studying in school and especially what he is reading. Your reading will supplement his read­
ying and your learning will mesh with his so that you will be in a position to stimulate his further learning by your answers to his questions. Learning be­comes even more fun when it is shared by all members of the family. 
The child who is a natural reader presents no great problems. If your family includes a non-reader you have a special problem, but one which can sometimes be solved by introducing him to books which feed his natural 
•interests. A librarian will help you select books which deal with baseball, with the mechanical world, with birds or animals, and, later on, books on electronics, chemistry, music or art. Once your child has learned the fun of reading in tlie field of his special interest, there is a chance Uiat he can be led into an exploration of otlier fields. 
ou MAY wonder at this point why have said nothing about marks 

,Yr 
and test scores. The omission of these two tyrannies is intentional. When learning is in its rightful place, marks and test scores follow learning. Today so much emphasis is placed on the difficulty of winning admission to col­lege and on the importance of tests and marks that all too often marks and tests have become the goals of learning rather than the by-products. When marks and test scores are made the primary target of learning, real 
Pleaming is lost. The school report cards give you an 
EUGENE S. WILSON is dean of ad­
mission at Amherst College, and a leading 
authority on preparation for college. 
As director of Amherst's admissions pro­
gram since 1946, he has seen and dealt 
with prospective students of uar}-ing abili­
ties, interests and degrees of preparation 
for college. 
His broad outlook on the national ad­
opportunity to place marks in proper 
perspective. Instead of asking "What 
did you get?," tr)', "\Vhat have you 
learned?" 
It is up to you to de-emphasize the marks and test scores and to help your child focus on reading, writing and learning. An approach like this as pre­paration for college helps your child to understand that learning is some­thing he does where he is and that all about him are people and books which will help him learn. Under such a program your child will see that his imderstanding of the world does not depend on whether he is in Boston, or in San Francisco, or in Yankton, but on how much advantage he takes of the opportunities around him. If your child is reared in this manner, neither he nor you will worn' about whether he gets into Harprince, Dart­yale or Calford, but only that he gets to a college where he can talk to teachers, where he can read books, where he can work in the laboratory. 
And now you may want to say, "Yes, but he may not get into a good college. He may not get into the best college. He may not get into my col­lege." Actually, no one knows what a good college is. No one knows which colleges are best. Harvard does have more graduates in Who's Who than any other institution, but considering the human material that has poured into Cambridge, Massachusetts, from all over the world for centuries, why doesn't Harvard have twice as many 
missions picture comes from his active par­ticipation in the leading national organiza­tions in the field. He has been a member of the College Entrance Examination Board since 1946, and a director for three years, and was chairman of its committee on inaugurating the "sample of writing" test. He was president of the Association of College Admission Counselors in 1960-61. He is a member of the National Associa­tion of Secondary School Principals, and serves on several school-college relations committees of this and other organizations. In 1958, he was a member of the selection committee for the National Merit Scholar­ships. 
A graduate of Deerfield Academy and Amherst College, he spent ten years in the field of inland water transportation before returning to Amherst in 1939 to become alumni secretary, a post he held for seven years until his appointment to the admis­sions job. 
Mr. Wilson is co-author of a book, "Col­lege Ahead!," published in 1958 and re­cently revised. He also has written an oc­cupational guidance booklet for liberal arts graduates, entitled "After College What?" And his articles have appeared in the Sat­urday Review, the College Board Review, College and University, and other journals. 
graduates in Wlio's Who as it does? Harvard could be doing a very poor job educationally and yet seem to be the top educational institution because of the intellectual drive and ability of the students who go there. 
The head of the Department of Re­ligion at Yale University is not a Yale man. He came from Dakota Wesleyan. The head of all health services at Harvard is not a Harvard man. He came from the University of West Vir­ginia. The former president of Prince­ton was not a Princeton man, but a graduate of Grove City College in Pennsylvania. The misery and torture of today's college admission comes be­cause parents have taught their chil­dren to think that learning is a matter of geography; that learning can take place only in certain institutions. 
The wise parent who has created in his child a desire to learn will approach the whole problem of college admission with one philosophy: "Go where you can get in, my son, and know that a great opportunity awaits you to dis­cover more about people, more about ideas, more about things — more knowledge than you will ever master in the four years you are in college." 
When this approach to college ad­mission is taken by an entire family there can be no heartbreaking letters in the mail, no crushed egos, nothing but delight at any letter that brings" news of acceptance, news that an ad­venture in learning lies ahead. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 9­
NOTRE DAME LAW SCHOOL 


i^mi--^ 

-J . Ihrit 
MOOT COURT 

Mr. Justice Douglas presided over the Court hearing the final argument in our annual Moot Court Competition on October 
6. Sitting with him were Honorable AVil­liam H. Hastie of the United States Court of .•\ppcals for the Third Circuit and Hon­orable J. Skelly Wright of the United States District Court in New Orleans. Thus a member of the Supreme Court of the United States presided over our Moot Court for the sixth consecutive year. 
The students who partcipated in the argument before this distinguished tribunal were: Joseph P. Albright, West Virginia; Michael M. Kelly, Te.\as; Louis N. Roberts, Indiana; and Norman H. Stark, Pennsyl­vania. 
UNDER WAY 

Law students registered on Thursday, September 14, and classes began the follow­ing day, a week before the rest of the Uni­versity. 
We had fewer no-shows this year than last. Happily, therefore, the expected de­cline in first-year enrollment did not ma­terialize. We have exactly the same num­ber as last year, namely 63, notwithstand­ing the substantially greater selectivity .which was exercised in passing on applications. --, 
NEW OFFICERS 

Honorable William B. Lawless, '44L, of Buffalo, New York, was elected president of the Notre Dame Law Association at the annual meeting at The Law School on June 
10. Also elected were: Honorary President, Mr. Albert H. Monacelli, '34, New York 
10 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 



A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT ^ 
. . . I left the UN just as the sun was setting, hailed a cab and asked to be taken to my hotel. The driver adjusted the mirror, looked back at me and said, "You been at the UN, aintcha, Mac?" I said yes. He said, "You've seen a lot of Communism, aintcha?" I said yes. He adjusted the mirror and looked at me again, studying my face and the way I was hunched over in the back seat, just as he had watched the stiffness with which I had climbed into his taxi. Evidently he recognized me. As we pulled up to the hotel the fare was eighty cents and I gave the diiver a dollar. He looked at me, thrust the dollar bill back in my hand and said, "Oh, never mind. Dr. Dooley, I'll pay your fare. You keep that buck and get back as soon as possible to your Kingdom of Laos." I smiled and felt warm and good inside and turned to my fellow-American and said, "O.K., Mac. Shall do." 
—DR. TOM DOOLEY, The Night They Burned the Mountain, p. 383. 
Notre Dame men cver>*where should feel "warm and good inside" to know that one of their fellow alumni contributed so much to his profession and to his country* in a fewA; dynamic years on earth. In describing his colloquy with the cab driver in New York, Dr. 
Dooley touches a sensitive nerve. He points up the human awareness 
of the evcr>-day -•American and shows how heartening is the slightest 
contribution to a cause to improve mankind. 
The Notre Dame Law Association is tr^'ing to take a page from 
the book of Dr. Tom and is preparing for the legal profession men 
of his character and his zeal. We are doing it by giving our time to 
the program of excellence in law designed by Dean O'Meara to fit 
into the broader concept of Notre Dame, the modem day Bologna of 
Catholic Education. Specifically, the Law .Association is recruiting 
students from every community' of the United States. It is sifting 
through lists of college graduates who are interested in practicing law 
and, after meticulous selection, it brings the outstanding young man 
Judge Lawless to Notre Dame Law School so that he may be trained in the profession 
which deals with the perfection of reason. .\t Notre Dame he will develop his professional skill in an atmosphere which recognizes the rich tradition of Saint and Scholar. We arc underwriting as far as we are able Dean O'Mcara's program to con-0) tinuc Notre Dame as a truly great national law school. .•\Ithough we have approximately 2,000 members of the Law .Association, not all members are able to participate actively in helping us to recruit the best for Notre Dame. Those can help with their dollars. 
Oftentimes, the most promising college students come from families with limited financial resources, many of them come from large families. Some must support their own families. It is the job of the Notre Dame Law .Association to see to it that a prospective law student who shows real promise for the legal profession be brought to Notre Dame through scholar­ship assistance. Some of the truly outstanding young men are anchored to their home com­munities because of family problems, others are attracted by the substantial scholarships made a\-ailable to them by universities whose economic resources are superior to Notre Dame's. Still others regretfully enter state universities of law not because they desire to do so. but because the tuition there is substantially lower than it is at Notre Dame. .As Dean O'Meara has pointed out in his annual reports, every one of his present students has summer employ­ment but this brings at best only $500 to $1,000 a year and is inadequate to bring him to Notre Dame. Last year, because of the unflagging zeal of Mr. Albert H. Monacelli, a prom­inent New York City attorney and alumnus, the Law Association was able to raise through^ the generosity of the .Alumni, approximately $50,000 for Law Scholarships. This sum almost doubled the sum raised in the preceding year. .As a result, many brilliant youni men will be entering Notre Dame Law School this fall who otherwise would not have known the atmosphere of the Lady on the Dome. 
Your contribution should be made to "The Notre Dame Foundation — Lazu School 
Scholarship Fund." In that way, every dollar you give will qualify for a matching grant by the Ford Foundation. .A contribution of $500 from you will bring Notre Dame an additional $250.00 from the Ford grant. 
If you help, you will feel as Dr. Tom Dooley felt, "warm and good inside" and think what you mil have done for that young man who needs YOU to enter Notre Dame next fall! 
—Ho.v. WILLIAM B. LAWLESS, President. Notre Dame Law .Association. 
City; Vice President, Mr. Frederick K. .Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. Judge Baer, '36L, South Bend; Secretary-Treas­Kiley had been a member of the .Appellate urer, Mr. Francis X. Fallon, '33, Grand Court of Illinois since 1941 and Judge Rapids; Executive Secretary, Mr. Thomas Swygert had been judge of the United 
L. Murray, '51L, South Bend. States District Court for the Northern Dis­Newly elected directors of the Associa­trict of Indiana since 1949. tion arc: Mr. Valentine B. Dealc, '39, Warm congratulations. Washington, D.C.; Mr. Peter F. Flaherty, 
'51L, Pittsburgh; Mr. John J. Reidy, Sr., RECOGNITION '27L, Cleveland; and Mr. George N. Tomp­
Mr. Ralph G. Schuiz, '53L, was one of the kins, "56L, New York City. 
lecturers at a one-day seminar on Tax Plan­
ning for Corporate Executives, held under 
PROMOTED the auspices of The University of Chicago. 
Honorable Roger J. Kiley, '23L, and Hon­Mr. Schuiz is a member of the firm oljj, orable Luther M. Swygert, '27L, have been Whyte, Hirschbocck, Minahan, Harding and appointed to the United States Court of Harland in Milwaukee. 

_ FACULTY 
" Professor VVasner has been granted leave of absence for the first semester. He will spend this time at the Cornell Law School working on a comparative-law research project with a group of eight or ten inter­national legal scholars. 
Chief Justice Warren appointed Professor Ward to be the Reporter of the .•\dvisory Committee on Appellate Rules of the Judi­cial Conference of the United States. This Committee has been directed to make a comprehensive study of appellate rules and procedures with a view to formulating im­proved and uniform appellate rules for all of the United States Courts of Appeals. 
Professor Rodes spent last year in Eng­land, at Oxford University, on a Law Faculty Fellowship awarded him by The Ford Foundation. We are glad to have him back. 
Professor Wofford has been granted leave 

MAN and the MOMENT 
By Rev. Thomas J. O'Donnell, C.S.C., '41 
Such is the Church of the Sacred Heart, a gallery of art, a treasury of relics for the faithful, a basilica of reli­
%gion: for in very few places in America are the ceremonies of the Church car­ried out with greater completeness, pro­priety and impressiueness than at Notre Dame. And in such environment arc we receiving our education and are we arriving at the estate of manhood. Surely such ennobling influence should bear fruit when we leave Notre Dame and enter the battle of life. With these words the Scholastic of Februar)', 1904, concludes an article on 
SSacred Heart Church. I imagine many articles have been written over the years about the church; Sometime it would be good to go back through old Domes and Scholastics to see what was said. Yet all would have to say much the same thing. Anyone who comes to the campus is struck by the beauty and elegance of this great church. They would have to mention the calm beaut)' and serene grandeur of this Cathedral­like campus church. 
m A few years ago a prominent visitor asked his host at Notre Dame what in­spired Father Sorin to build such a big and beautiful church out here on the prairie in 1871! The answer given is the same answer that inspired Father Sorin to put Our Lady on top of a golden dome: "When this school. Our Lady's School, shall grow a bit more I shall rabe her aloft so that, without asking, all men shall know why we have succeeded here. . . ." This he did. And sometime, if you pause and 
Rook at this lovely statue, you will see that her left hand points down to the 
campus — to her boys — and her right 
hand points to the church. You can 
almost hear her saying, "These are my 
boys. I take them and give them to 
my Son." 
Father Sorin must have had thb in 
mind when in the Spring of 1869 he 
decided to build a new church dedi­
cated to Our Lady of the Sacred 
Heart. There was little money on 
hand, but tlien this lack of funds was 
an old story for Father Sorin. He de­
cided to go ahead. In the Spring of 
1871 tlie cornerstone was blessed by 
Archbishop Purcell, assisted by five 
other bishops. Even in those days the 
hierarchy looked to Notre Dame to be 
the best and traveled long miles on 
slow vehicles to attend functions at 
Notre Dame. 
It is not easy for us in our time to imagine that year of 1871. It is ancient history. \Ve have moved from the slow train to the fast jet. AVe have squeezed the twirling world and made it small. But the people of those days were giants on the earth. The scars, and wounds of the Wax between the States were still a blotch upon the land. Peo­ple still cried dry tears for their recent dead, and the maimed found little com­fort as they hobbled on their crutches. A general named Grant was in the ^Vhite House. A priest named Corby was President of Notre Dame. This same Father Corby was -the gallant chaplain in the carnage of Fredericks­burg, Chancellorsville, Gettysburg and the wilderness. And to the west — whether you put the blame on Mame or the kick of a cow — Chicago was half burned to the ground. Such was 
of absence to serve as one of President Kennedy's Special Assistants. 
NATURAL LAW INSTITUTE 

In connection with the annual meeting of the Editorial Board of the Natural Law Forum, Professor Bertrand de Jouvenel, in­ternationally known French scholar, deliv­ered a series of lectures on October 20 and 
21. These lectures will be published in the 1962 issue of the Forum. 
the scene in 1871 as the still young college began to build its campus church. It took time and hard work and many a change of plan. Finally, after, ten years, it was finished. Not completely, finished, because the beauti­ful Lady Chapel was not started until 1886. Arid here again the old master. Father Sorin, a priest forty-eight years, stepped in to secure the altar for the Chapel. He had seen this work of Bernini on- e.\hibition in Rome. True to form he'.tried on four different occa­sions to get the price lowered, but the bearded French patriarch lost. He had to pay what was asked. 
In the golden aimiversary of Father Sorin's ordination the Church was con­secrated.''The year was 1888. From across the .country came the dignitaries of the Church led by Cardinal Gib­bons. 
Sometirhes when you come back to the campus take a quiet seat in the church and look it over. You never really looked at it when you were a student. Students are too busy to see. They just rush. But now is your time for a meditative visit. You won't have to know that the decoration was the work of Gregori and that the high bronze altar was fashioned in the studio of Froc Robert of Paris. These are in­teresting bits of information but hardly points for meditation and reflection. Instead, consider the number of feet that have walked across these floors. In every season and from every walk of life students and visitors have en­tered this church to pray. In season and out the casual sightseer has looked and marveled. But when you return just sit and look. From the high-shad­owed sanctity of the ceiling you wiU see the cherubs of Gregori in multicol­ored fresco. So pause a while. Let Our Lord in the tabernacle remind you of your hopes and promises. Say with the poet priest of Notre Dame — 
"Nothing so much is future as the past; I may not see tomorrow, But unto joy or sorrow. My yesterdays shall meet me at the last." 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 11 

What J^otre Dame Can J^e (continued from page 5) 
As I have said, the human person has integrity and value for others as well as for himself. And so the Catholic must develop a living, magnanimous sense that when he speaks of the healing waters by which our Republic lives he has in mind others as well, however different their origins or their spiritual orientation may be. His university will not put some kind of key in the door and say, these treasures are for myself alone. It must think constantly of civil conversation with olliers, in the hope of finding a common ground with iheni on which civilization can be safeguarded. .And this it cannot in our time effectively do unless it truly be a Univer­sity in which .this kind of conversation can be conducted against the background of a firm and fervent, a deeply intellectual and yet also a wholly democratic spirit in a scholarly community. 
It is hardly necessar>- for me to conclude that this is no cas>­task. But ior all who love and believe in Notre Dame it will be impossible to shirk it. The great majority of us remember our 
SIXTY-MINUTE MAN REVISITED 
.•Mma Mater as a place in which our young years were blest, in which our laughter and our joy in life were never kept from bubbling through study and religious dedication. We have never thought II a sin for boys lo play football, and for my part I hope to be cheering next fall with such breath as remains in my rela­tively ancient frame. But a long time has now passed since Notre Dame was little more than an Eton playing field with studies attached. It must now reach out to an intellectual greatness which the Church and the nation require if we are to do our part in the mighty struggle for our people's freedom. 
Notre Dame docs not need me except possibly as a symbol of what lifelong dedication to scholarship may mean. But it needs you as a mother docs her children. It needs you not so much for _ its own sake as for that of your dear children in turn. Your '­children are the America which is to be. God grant that Notre Dame can serve them as it did you to ser\e their country* and Him. 
OfT-canipus views of Notre Dame's president to sup­plement the story in the Oct. 24 issue of LOOK. 
FATHER HESBURGH, twice honored by other universities last June, is shown (left) receiving a degree from President Kirk after an address at Columbia University and (right) taking part in Princeton academic procession with (l.-r.) Secretary of Slate Dean Rusk, Secretary of ihc Treasury Douglas Dillon, and fonner U.N. .Ambassador Henry Cabot Lodge. 
HAWAII—It's standing room only, apparently, in Honolulu's Pacific Club as Hawaiian alunmi stage an "Aloha" (meaning both hello and goodbye) reception for six departing freshmen and for Father Hcsburgh, who touched down on a business trip to the X'hilippines, Hong Kong, Pakistan, Lebanon, Rome, and ^^cnna for the N.S.F. and I.A.E..\. 
MANILA—On a whirlwind tour of the Philippines that also included a visit to the Rice Institute for the National Science Foundation and a reception at Far Eastern University, Father Hcsburgh (left) is met at the airport my Club President Conrado Sanchez, Jr., and other Philippine alumni; (center) enjoys an intimate dinner and chat at the Kismet with the welcoming committee; and (right) addresses a fuU-CIub gathering at the Club Filipino in farewell. 
/2 Notre Vame Alumnus, November, 756/ 
• Directory of Clubs and Their Presidents 
AL,\BAMA 
John .S. O'Brien, Jr., '31, 1463 Linda Vista Dr., Rrgent Forest, Biriningham, Alabama. 
ARIZONA 
Phoenix—Edu-ard W. Murpliy. 1741 E. Tiickcy Lane. Pliornw, Artzona­rurton—Paul A. Matz, *56. 7(M9 Callr Ciius, Tuc­son. Arizona. 

* ARIOVNSAS 
fori Smith—Srxmei A. Giltcr, '48, 3715 Free Fcrr;' Rd.. Fort Smith. .Ark. Little Rock—James E. Madigan, '43. 4GI7 Crest-HiDod, Little Rock. .Ark. 
CALIFORNIA Bo<vrJ^.W—Richard Barnett. "5ti. 63 Cloldiii Slalr lluy.. Baker-field. Ciiif. C<-n(.o;—Harold .A. Bair, '29 (Secretary), 2430 Tulare St., Fresno, Cal. 
Greater Long Beaeh Area—Edmond AV. Sheeran. 

"31. 206 E. Fourth St., Long Beach 12. Cal. Loi AneeUl—Mortoa R. Goodman, '30, 9441 IVil­shirc Blvd., Beverly Hills. Cal. # .Vor/Ar.n—William C. .McC.uaii. '41. 1709 .Vetv­r.-iMle Dr.. Lo, Altos. Cllif. 
ttrange County—^Johii E. DeCour^ty, '5X IJ742 
Bitrromeo .Ave.. I'larentia. Calif. 5afram«-n/o—.Alfred .A. Kaelin. "55. 2784 Harkiiess St.. Sacramento 18. Calif. San Diego—Fred Fouler, '41, 4232 Stanton Rd., San Diego, Gil. San Fernando I'o//c)'~Jolin X. Leonard. '34. 8553 Shirley Ave, Northridge. Cal. San Gabriel I'oHo"—John P. Frampton, '49, 1450 Hacienda PI., Pomona, Cal. 
COLORADO 

Colorado .ypn'mj—William J. Donelan. Jr.. "29, 1800 A Mesa .Ave, Broadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo, flcnrvr—Carl F. Eibei^er, '32, 1300 Telephone 
Bids-, Denver 2, Colo. 
CONNECTICUT 
Conncelieut ToHej^ames F. Flaherty, Jr., '53, 12 Tumblebrook Rd., Rocky Hill, Conn. Fairfield CounO-—William .Miilrcnan, '37, 100 Tide-mill Terrace, Fairfield, Conn. Xaugatuck Valley—Donienic .A. Nardncci. Jr., '52. 44 Beacon -Manor Rd., Naugattick. Conn. Sew //flivn—John F. Kerrigan, '49, 93 Greenuay Street, Ilamden, Conn. 
DEL/\WARE 

James J. Colctnan, '46, 219 Oakuood Road, Wil­9 mington 3, Delaware. 
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA 
Robert X. Hutchison, '35, 12 East Lenox St., Chevy CILTSC, Md. 
FLORIDA 
Central—Vx,-! B. Laughlin, '48, 20«1 Rockledgc, Rocklcdgc, Fla. 
Fort Lauderdale—Thomas J. Walker, '42, Walker In­surance .-Vssociates. Inc.. Tlie Xcw Blo-.mt BIdg., 25 E. Los Olas Blvd.. P.O. Box 1020. Ft. Laitder­dale. Fla. 

Greater Miami—^Jamcs .-\. Smith, '48, 672 X.E. 98lh St., iliaini Shores, Fla. Xorth Florida—Gcmld B. Johnson, '50, 21)44 Red W Fox Road, Orangi: Park, Fla. Palm Beach County—Edu-ard D. Lewis, '54, Bo.x 921, Palm Beach, Fla. 
Pensaeola—Patrick J. Gunning, '53, 3770 Summer Dr., Pensaeola, Fla. 
St. Peteriburg-Tampa-il^k E. Mooncy, '26, 4525 
Gaines Rd., Tampa, Fla. 
GEORGIA 
Atlanta—James E. Barnard, *49, Acting President, 2042 Juanita St., Decatur, Ca. 
HAWAII 
Dtraald C. .Machado. "50. 99-149D Ileen Wav. Aiea. Hawaii. 
IDAHO 
J. Richard Cornell, "59, 2408 Broadway. Boise. Idaho. 
Idaho fo/;r—James XL Brady, "29, P.O. Box 2148, Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
ILLINOIS 
Aurora—Edward J- Fanning. '39. Fanning Clirvrolet. Inc.. 2311 S. Broadway. Aurora. III. 
Central Illinois—^Thomas Hamilton, Jr., ^53, 33^9 
S. Fifth St., Springfield, 111. Chieago—Joseph L. Pagliari, '53. 1125 X. Knight, Park Ridge. 111. /),-ro/ur—George H. Ilublwrd. "34. 139 W. .Main St.. Decatur. 111. Eastern Illinois—Edward J. Lavden, '41, Hoopeston, III. Fox Valley—George R. Schtnidt, '3 , 620 Summit St., Elgin, III. Joliet—Eugene R. Funk, '59, 715 Second .-Xvenue, 
Joliet, III. Kankakee Valley—Tbamii J. Re>-nolds, '34, 343!4 
S. Winfield, Kankakee, III. 
.McHenry County—George K. Costello, '40, 393 
Highland i\\e.. Crj-stal Lake, III. /•i-orio—Thom.Ts Eckland, '33, 2713 Overhill Rd., Peoria, III. ftoct/ori/—Albert Carroll, '22, 206 West State St., Rockford, 111. Rock River I'oHo'-Luke R. Morin, '53, 323 X. Dl\on .A*-e., Dixon, III. Southern Cook Cou/i/i-—Robert ,\. Caffarelli. '55, 
2:11 E. 22nd St.. Chicago Heights. III. INDIANA Calumet flulrir/—Ben R. Danko, '31, 1801 Clcvc­bnd .-\vc.. Whiting. Ind. Eastern Indiana—William B. Cronin, '31, 521 E. . JelTerson, Hartford City, Ind. Elkhart—.-Vustin Gildca, '30, 3 St. Joseph Manor, Elkhart, Ind. £;<.7ij:i«e—Donald F. Hallcr, '43, 716 S. Vilh, £i:ansv(Ile 14, Ind. Fort H'oyne—Robert R. Luther, '49, 443 Kinn.ard .•\ve., Ft. Wayne, Ind. /nrfiono/io/u—William S. Sahm, "51, 4218 Ruckle Strtn:t, Indianapolis 3, Ind. Michigan City—Dr. Francis J. Kubik, '36, 902 Pine, Michigan City, Ind. St. Joseph Valley—^l. Robert Cihill, '34, .-\thlctic Dept-, Xotre Dame, Ind. Terre //nule—Charles W. -Mctzgcr, '48, 1031 S. Brown, Tcrrc Haute, Ind. tt'abash Valley—James W. Glaser, '30, P.O. Box 59, Lafayette, Ind. IOWA /turfmslon—John A. Dailcj", '27, 201 Spring St., Burlington, Iow*a. Cedar Rapids—George Benning, '49, R.R. 3, Cedar Rapitls, Iowa. 
Del Moines—James F. Bocscn, '34, 4109 30th St., Dcs Moines 10, Iowa. 
Dubuque—Rev. William Kcnsch, '37, Our Lady of 
• Seven Dolors Rectory, Fcstina, Iowa. Sioux-Land—RajTnond B. Duggan, '43 (Secretary), 3244 Jackson, Siou.x City 4, Iowa. 
Tri-Cities (Davenport, Rock Island, Moline, E. Mt>­lincj^Jcromc S. Culligan, '31, 1521—26th Ave., Rock Island, III. 
K/\NSAS Eastern Kansas—T. Henry Devlin, '49, 2203 College, Topeka, Kansas. Sn/ino—Albert J, Schwartz, '37, 130 S. Front St., Salina, Kansas'; ir/riiln—John iK W'eigand, '54, 303 X. Dellrose, Wichita 8, Kaiwas. 
KENTUCKY 
John E. Mueller, ''52, 807 Ituntington Rd., Louis­ville 7, Ky. 
LOUISIANA 
Xew OrUans—John E. Pciitbon, *52, C. A. Sporl & Co., Commerce-BIdg., New- Orleans, La. SoTtkern Louisiana—George J. Despot, '45, 517 MarJtei, Shrcvepori, La. 
MAINE 
William M, Salter. '57, 34 Windxir Ave., Augusta, Maine. 
-MARYLrVND 
Baltimore—William L. Gaudrrau, '53, Professional BIdg., 330 -W Charles St.. Baltimore 1, Md. 
MASSxVCHUSETTS 
Berkshire Coun/>—James J- O'Brien, '34, 197 Bartlett .\ve., Pjtisfield, Mass. Boston—Charles W. Powers, *45, 1047 County St., Somerset, Mass-Pioneer IfaWo—Daniel J. O'Connell, '22, 11 Pyn­chon Rd., llolyokc, Mass. 
MICHrCAN 
BattU Creek—Raymond R. Alien, '40, 409 Orchard Place, Battle Creek, Mich. Berrien County—Dr. Paul Leonard, '43, 413 S. St. Joe, Nilcs, Mich. Blue Water Z)ij(nV/—William L. Wilson, '42, 4080 Gratiot Ave., Port Huron, Mich. Dearborn—JcTomc W. Kelly, '53, 89&4 Rockland Detroit 39, Mich. /)f/roi7—William C. Roncy, Jr., '49, 2 Buhl BIdg., Detroit, Mich. Flint—Lawrence C. Saxe, '54, 801 Kensington Ave., Flint 3, Mich. Gogebic Rangr—Eugene R. Zinn, '40, Wright & Zinn, Michaels BIdg., Iromvood, Michigan. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan—-RoYivrt Kirch­
gcssner, '52, Union Bank of Mich.. 98 Ottawa, N.W., Grand Rapids 2. Mich. Hiau-athaland-DonaXd T. Trotlier, '44, 604 Lud­ington St., Escanaba, .Mich. Jackson—CynX J. Hartman, '23, 612 Webb St., Jackson, Mich. Kalamazoo—^Joseph O'Keefc, '44, O'Keefc Motor Sales, 433 W. Water St., Kabmazoo, .Mich. AanJt"«,^—Robert H. Mooncy. Jr., '52. 2329 Cum­berland Rd., LniLsing 6. Mich. J/onrof—Charles J. Golden, '48, 35 E. F--ont St., Monroe, Mich. Muskegon—James Morse. '57. 2337 \1ncent Rd., Afuskegon. Mich. Saginaw rc//o^AViIHam C. Hurley, '25, 17H Gratiot, Saginaw*, Mich. Top of Michigan—Edward L. Moloney, '17, 416 East State St., Cheboygan, Mich. 

Notre Daine Alumnus^ November, 1961 13 
MINNESOTA 
DuluthSupenor—^James P. Keough, '35, (treasurer), 2705 East Fifth St., Dnluth, Minn. Tirnn CiliM—Robert M. Regan, '52, 1164 North­western Bank BIgd., Minneapolis, Minn. 
MISSISSIPPI 
William H. Miller, '30, 755 Gillespie PI., Jack­son, Miss. 
MISSOURI 
Kansas City—(Mo. and Kans.)—John T. Massman, '56, 1207 Romany Rd., Kansas City, ilo . St. Louii.—Robert F. Chickey, '54, 9810 Madbon, Rock Hill 19, Mo. 
MONTANA 
Bernard Graincy, '43, 906 Uth Avenue, Helena, Mont. 
NEBRASKA 
Omaha and Council Bluffs—D. Hughes Wilcox. '52, 510 S. 58th St., Omaha, Nebr. 
NEW JERSEY 
Central—Joseph J. Sepkoski, '50, 1155 Lorraine Ave., PlainScId, N. J. New Jersey—R. Bruce Dold, '53, 9 Femcliff Ter­race, Glen Ridge, N. J. South Jersey—Jama B. Carson, '56, 624 Clinton Ave., Haddonficid, X. J. 
NEW MEXICO 
Francis P. Hudson, '54, 2728 Palomas Dr., N.E., Albuquerque, N. M. 
NEW YORK 

Buffalo—^Harry A. Quinn, Jr., '49. 306 Lamarck Dr., Snyder, K.Y. Capital District—C. F. Regan, Jr., *27, 441 Louden­vUIe Rd., Albany 11, N. Y. C^nfraJ—John R. Vamey, '53, 525 Robincau Rd., Sjiacuse 9, N.Y. Golden Circle—J2mc$ F. McVay, '42, 49 Park»-ay Lane, Bradford, Pa. Mid-Hudson I'nJ/o'—Donald J. Reynolds, '53, 118 South Ave., Pougbkeepsie, N. Y. Mohawk Fol/ej'—Kenneth F. Murphv, '54, 32 Emer­son Ave., Udca 3, N. Y. New York City—M Lesmez, '45, 122 TuIIamore Rd., Garden City, L.I., N. Y. Rochester—^Villiara J. Dempsey, '53, 67 Harvest Dr., Fairport, N. Y. Schenectady—Hoba:t L. Schafer, *48, 1100 Wavcll Road, Schenectady, N. Y. Syracuse—See "Central New York" Southern Tier—Ed%%in Bonliam, '09, 329 Hamilton St., Painted Post, N. Y. Triple CiliM—George J. Haines, '42, 63 Da\-is, Binghamton, X. Y. 
NORTH CAROLINA 

Donald Kelscy, '48, 1115 Wcstridge Rd., Greens­boro, N.C. 
NORTH DAKOTA 

William Dancr, '53, 1106 So. Highland Acres, Bismarck, North Dakota. 
OHIO 

Akron—Geoige Dekany, '49, 318 Kenilworth Dr., Akron 13, Ohio. Canton—Edward A. Machuga, *55, 3207 Windsor PI., S.W., Canton, Ohio. CnurtiiniUi—John F. McConnick, '48, 8924 Blossom Dr., Cincinnati 36, Ohio. 
14 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 

Cleoeland—Robtn E. Dowd, '41, 19413 Scottsdale BU-d., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio. Cofumiiiu—Richard Kasberg, '48, 861 S. Casangham Rd., Columbus 8, Ohio. Dayton—Oc. Louis M. Haley, '50, 409 Rubicon Rd., Dayton 9, Ohio. Homi/lon—Jerome A. Rj-an, '41, 353 South "D " St., Hamilton, Ohio. Mansfield—John C. O'Donnell, '24, 191 Lind Ave., Mansfield, Ohio. Northwestern—Paul Doran, '37, 1505 W. Wayne St., Lima, Ohio. OAi'o Valley—James J. Haninzo. *52, 26 Cojrtland, Wheeling, W. Va. ^anrfujl-)'—Richard C. Holder, '47, 2603 Eastu-ood Drive, Sandusky, Oliio. rWn—Fred J. Wagner, '29, 152 Sycamore St., Tiffin, Ohio. ToWo—Charles M. Schira, '46, 4510 Eastway, To­ledo 12, Ohio. Youngstown—Thomas E. Kerrigan, '44, 133 East Judson Ave., Youngstown, Ohio. 
OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma City—Dr. Al R. Drcscher, '38, 4415 
N. Thompson, Oklahoma City, Okla. 

Tulia—John F. Mohatt, '35, 3754 East 46th PI., Tulsa 35, Okla. 
OREGON 

Charles Slatt, '33, 2835 N.E. 19ih Ave., Port­land 12, Oregon. 
PENNSYVANIA 

Central Pennsylvania—^Dr. George W. Katter, '41, 
U. S. Bank Bldg., Johnstown, Pa. Brie—Raymond W. Legler, '57, 2323 Sassafras St., Erie, Pa. Horriiturf—Donald R. Meek, '50, 520 Piirk Ait., New Cumberland, Pa. Lehigh r««o^Robert G. Slraley, '53, 1976 Penn­syK-ania Ave., Bethlehem, Pa. Monongahela Valley—Louis W. Apone, '41, 321 Market St., Brownsville, Pa. Philadelphia—barton B. Johnson, '48, 310 Fairhill Rd., Wynnewood, Pa. PiluliiirjA—Peter F. Fkiherty, '51, 5820 Elwood St., Pittsburgh 32, Pa. icroiilon—Thomas P. Comerford, '42, 415 Chirk Ave., Clarks Summit, Pa. IfifieJ-Barre—Raymond J. Sobota, '49, 760 Miners Bank, Wilkes-Barrc, Pa. 
ICiBiomj^orf—Edu-ard F. O'Dea, '57, 1254 Paii Ave., Williamsport, Pa. 
RHODE ISLAND AND SOUTHEASTERN MASSACHUSETTS 

Philip B. Toole, '52, 185 Union St., Attlcboro, Mass. 
SOUTH CAROLINA 

Joseph D. Judge, Jr., '51, 22 Moore Dr., West­wood, Charleston, S.C. 
SOUTH DAKOTA 

Black Ha/l—Bernard Gira, '10, Custer, South Dakota. 
TENNESSEE 

C*ii(lanooBa—Herbert J. Haile, Jr., '55, W. C. Teas Co., 1212 McCallie Ave., Chattanooga, Tenn. Memphis—John M. ReyTiolds, '56, 409 Cecilia Dr., Memphis, Tenn. 
TEXAS 

Da/to—Martin R. O'Connor, '51, 3174 Catamore Lane, Dallas 29, Texas. H Palo—Edward T. Jennings, '53, 312 Olivia dde . El Paso, Texas. 
HoiuloB-T. George McHale, '23, 505 Stuart, Houston 6, Texas. ^ Midland-Odessa—Tl. Byrne O'Neill, '45, 703 Boyd, Midland, Texas. Rio Grande VoHey-Robert Aziz, '49, 1205 W. Elizabeth, Brownsville, Texas. Son .^nfonio—Mark E. Watson, Jr., '57, 345 Burr Rd., San Antonio, Texas. 
UTAH 

Don J. Roney, '58, 2046 SyK-an, Salt Lake City 8, Utah. 
VIRGINIA 

E. Milton Farley, '51, 4900 Riverside Dr., Riclimond 
25, Va. f 

TiVeoiater-Philip L. Russo, '49, 8033 Wedgewood Drive, Norfolk, Va. 
WASHINGTON 

Spokane—Bernard J. Smyth, '55, East 1911 Thunton, Spokane 34, Wash. IfeKem—Joseph G. Lotta, '51, 2156 North 95th St., Seattle, Wash. 
WEST VIRGINIA 

Rudolph L. Di Ttapano, '50, 2308 Kanawha Blvd., Charleston, West Virginia. Centra/-John D. Julian, '40, P.O. Box 2063, Clarksburg, W. Va. g 
WISCONSIN 

Fox River I'o/;c>—William R. Maher, Jr., 780 Oak St., Neenah, Wis. Green Baj'—Walbce P. Christman, '44, 2423 Beau­mont St., Green Bay, Wis. LaCrojjc—Ste\e Pavela, '4B, 2311 State St., La-Crosse, Wb. J/erriH—.Augustus H. Stange, '27, 102 S. Prospect, Merrill, Wis. .UiVaoutee—John Wilkinson, '56. 426 N. 91st, Wau­watosa. Wis. Northwest Wisconsin—C. T. Downs, '33, 219'/­
S. Bai^tow, Eau Claire, Wis. 5oiilA Central-John W. Roach, '27, 138 Glenway 9 St., Madison, Wis. 
Soulheastem—Zdmn E. Raymond, Jr., '49, 2820 2Ist St., Racine, Wis. 
"WYOMING 

Patrick H. Meenan, Acting Prcs., '49, Kfidwest Bldg., P.O. Box 481, Casper, Wyo. 
FOREIGN CLUBS 

Bengal, India—Rev. John W. Kane, C.S.C., '24 (key man), Moreau House, 28 Zindabahar Lane, Dacca, East Pakistan. Cnnarfa—Paul H. LaFramboise, '34, 400 Charest — Blvd., Quebec, Canada. V ChUe—Rcv. Francis A. Provenzano, C.S.C, '42, St. George's College, Aven. Pedro de Valdivia 1423, Santiago, Chile. Eena/for—John Moeller, '47, P.O. Box 213, Quito, Ecuador. Cnom—Capt. V. T. Bbz, '51, P.O. Box 2002, Azana, Guam. Manila—Coniado Sanchez, Jr., '54, 83 Mayon St., Quezon City, Philippines. Mexico City—Telmo DeLandero, '37, Eugenio Sue 220, Mexico City. Panama-William J. Sheridan, '34, Box 98, Balboa Heights, Canal Zone. Peru—Enrique Lulli, *45, Cuzco 440, Lima, Peru. PuerJo RiVo—Vicc-Pres.: Paul McManus, '34, Calle Earle, No. 4, Condado, Santurce, Puerto Rico. ^ 
Rome—Secretary: Vincent G. McAloon, '34, Palazzo^ Btancacdo, Largo Biancaccio, 82, Rome, Italy; Telephone 730002. 
• CALENDAR 
Regularly scheduled club meetings that have been reported to the Alumni Office are as follows: 
BUFFALO—First Tuesday of every month at 8:30 p.m., Hotel Lenox, 715 Dela­ware Ave., Buffalo, N. Y. In addition, a table marked "Notre Dame Alumni Club of Buffalo" is resen-ed for lunch at K. of C , 506 Delaware Ave., Buffalo, on each First Friday at 12 noon. 

CEDAR RAPIDS—Communion Breakfast Meeting, fourth Sunday of even months: A 8:00 a.m. Mass at alternating parishes; 
9:00 breakfast meeting at Bishops. 

CENTRAL OHIO—First Monday (night) of every month. Junior Rose Room, Vir­ginia Hotel, Columbus, Ohio. 
CENTRAL NEW JERSEY—Second Wed­nesday (night) of each month at Knights of Columbus, High St., Perth Amboy. 
DEC.\TUR — Monthly luncheons, fourth Wednesday of every month at Elks Club, Decatur, 111. 
DENVER—First Wednesday of each month _ at the Navarre Restaurant. 
DETROIT—First Monday of each month, luncheon, at 12 noon. Ye Olde ^Vayne Club, 1033 Wayne S L 
ERIE—First Friday dinner meeting with wives. Antler's Restaurant, 7:00 p.m.. Sept thru June, Erie, Pa. 
FORT lAUDERDALE—Second Thursday of each month, dinner at 7:30 pm.. Gov­ernor's Club Hotel, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
KANSAS CITY—Call Plaza 3-2160. 
MIAMI—Call Jim Smith (FR 7-2341) or 
• Bob Probst (FR 4-0507) for time and location of meetings. 
PHILADELPHIA—Second Tuesday of each month (night) at the Philopatrian Club. 
PITTSBURGH — Weekly luncheon at the Variety Club, Thursday, in the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, 12 noon. 
ROCHESTER — Monthly luncheon, first Monday, at 12:15 p.m.. Home Dairy, 111 East Main, second floor. 
ROME—Open House daily, Palazzo Bran­caccio. Largo Brancaccio 82, ph. 730002. (^ Ask for Vince McAloon, secretary. 
ST. LOUIS — Monthly luncheon, stag, 12 noon. Key Club in Hotel Jefferson, St. Louis, Mo., second Monday. 
SOUTHWESTERN WISCONSIN — First Friday of every month, noon luncheon get-together at the Racine Elks Club. 
TERRE HAUTE — Third Tuesday of every month, 7:30 p.m. Meeting at the Terre Haute House. 
WASHINGTON —Weekly luncheon, each Tuesday, 12 noon. Touchdown Club, 1414 I Street, N.W., Washington, D. C. 
H WILKES-BARRE—First Tuesday of every month, luncheon meeting, 12:15 pan., in the main dining room. Hotel Sterling. 


ALUMNI 

Akron 
Our annual golf outing was held again at the 

championship Firestone Counlr>' Club on July 31. 
Our scores were not quite on the same level with 
the pros who played in the American Golf Classic 
in August; however, the 29 members and guests had 
a good time and Firestone C. C. manager HUGH 
Lt\UGHLIN, '25, arranged another fine dinner. 
DAN MOTZ, '54, chairmanncd the affair. DON 
.MILLER, '25, with his son DON, JR., a freshman 
this year, came down from Cleveland to play. 
DICK Px\GE, a guest, came in with low gross 
and took home a fine set of gtxsscs as first prize. 
Earlier, on June 28lh, BILL BURKHARDT, 

'35, chairman of the Special Gifts Committee of 
the Foundation drive, arranged a luncheon for 
FATHER HESBURGH at the Portage Counirv-
Club. The top e.xecutives of all four rubber firms 
plus leaders of evcr>- other major business and in­
dustr>" in the area attended. From all reports, it 
Avas a vcr>' successful affair. 
When this article is printed our three Fall events 

will have been held. The first of these is our annual 
We!comc-to-Freshmcn Dinner in September. This 
year it lias a two-fold purpose. In addition to greet­
ing the new Notre Dame men we arc honoring our 
50-ycar and over grads. AL HILKERT, DR. JIM 
KRAMER, and DR. ANDY DEV.VNY are members 
of the class of 19II. Also we are honoring CLAR­
ENCE MAY, '08, giving the Akron Club four men 
over the half-centur%* mark. We believe this is 
some sort of record! BILL BURKHARDT, '35. 
BILL AHERN, '39, and JOHN KELLY, '41. all 
have sons in this year's class. JOHN DAR.-\GO, 
'54, and JERRY KLEIN, '32, were co-chairmen of 
the dinner. 
The Akron area '"Challenge" Rally on October 

17 was held at the Fairlawn Countrj* Club. .-Vrea 
cliairman TOM BOTZU.M, '49, made all the ar­
rangements. Tom has an active committee working 
to contact all alumni personally. .-Vs we all know 
it wilt take the maximum effort and generosity 
of cver>' alumnus to make this campaign a success. 
This year's football ticket drawing was for four tickets to the Northwestern game October 28th plus $50 for expenses and two rooms in the Holidav Motel. JERRY .McDERMOTT, '42. last year's 
AURORA—Among alumni and students attending a party under the stars at the home of Owen Kane were (l.-r.) Tom Kucks, Secretary Richard Schiller, retiring President Kane, President-elect Edward J. Fanning, and Vice-president 
(and parent) Clarence J. Ruddy. 
lucky winner, handled the printing and distribution 
of this year's tickets. 
The last Saturday of I96I, December 30, is the big night to remember. The annual Scholarship Ball will be held that night at the Akron Tower Motor Inn. Chairman DAN MOTZ, '54, -advises that the management of Akron's newest downtown hotel is going all out to make this a memorable e\'cning for everybody in attendance. Music will be provided by Frankie Reynolds, and we imder­stand that many dub members will be having cocktail parties beforehand. From all indications this will be one of the most heaWIy attended Christmas Dances in several years. 
—W. I. LAMMERS, '50, Secy. 


Aurora 
On .August 3, forty members of the Xotre Dame Club of Aurora met at the home of OWEN N. KANE, III, '38. After an excellent outdoor din­ner, retiring President Kane opened the business meeting by expressing his gratitude to the other outgoing officers and all those members whose efforts rontributed to the success of the Club's activities during the past year. 
The Scholarship Committee, consisting of WIL­LL\M B. CHAWGO, '31, CLARENCE J. RUDDY, '27, and OWEN N. KANE, HI, '38, gave its report stating that since the Club's inception it has been able to assist four boys, two of whom are currently attending the University. The Committee also expressed its hope that more graduating seniors from all of the high schools in the .Aurora area would submit applications for future awards. 
The Nominating Committee submitted its recom­mendations for the new officers and elections, re­sults are as follows: President, ED^VARD J. FAN­NING, '39; Vice President, attorney CLARENCE 
J. RUDDY, '27; Seci^tarv. JUDGE RICHARD 
D. SCHILLER, '56, '59; Treasurer, DR. THOMAS J. STARSHAK, '50. 
President-elect Fanning then thanked OWEN KANE for hosting the event and outlined plans for the coming year which, in addition to observ­ance of Universal Notre Dame night and a Com­munion Breakfast, include a swnmer stag event and also a Christmas dance which will be chair­maned by LYNN R. HANKES, '58. He also an­nounced that the REV. TERENCE STANTON, O.S.B., of the Marmion Abbey in Aurora will assume the position of Club Chaplain. President Fanning in closing expressed his desire to see the Club expand, and he urges all alumni in Aurora and surrounding territory to contact one of the officers in the very near future so that they can be included in the Club's activities. 
—EDWARD J. FANNING, '39, Pres. 


Balrimore 
On October 18 our Club held its annual stag fall function at the Gridiron Club, featuring cock­tails, prime rib dinner, general meeting, and a football film narrated by BOB WILLIAMS. Dis­cussed were the coming year's social calendar, the . January dance, and the old perennial problem of dues. 
The Xotre Dame Club of Baltimore's Medals of Honor, awarded annually to a graduate from each of the four Catholic high schoob in the area for outstanding qualities of scholastic excellence and extracurricular achievement, were presented this year to the following: William M. Inglis, Lo\-oIa High, for scholastic excellence over a period of four years; David J. Queen, Mount St. Joseph, for excellence in classical studies; R. Patrick Cum­mings, Calvert Hall College High valedictorian; and Joan Eustace, Totvson Catholic High, for forensic achievement. 
The Baltimore Cluh lost a most respected and active member with the death of FEUX J. MEL­ODY last June. Felix was active on many com­mittees and activities of the Club. We would like to extend our condolences to his wife and family. 
Officers for 1961-62 are: BILL GAUDREAU, president; BERNIE CRONIN, vice-president; D.AVE SOLOMAN, treasurer; and DUANE CONNOLLY, secretary. 
-BU.ANE CONNOIXY, Secy. 

Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1962 25 
Beaumont, Texas 
III July u'c had an **out-of-season'' Xolrc Dainc 
Xiglit with a cocktail hour and dinner for the 
majority of the alumni of the Braumoitt-l'ort 
Arthur-Orange area. Our acceptances totaled 45, 
but at the last minute there were four cancella­
tions. 
Tile occasion for the impromptu Universal Xoirc 
Dame Xight gathering was a \isit of J. ARTHUR 
HALEY and his wife Mar\' to Beaumont. 
After the dinner Mary Haley made an excellent 
presentation to the group on how tlic Women's 
Auxiliar>* was originated and developed, something 
of the good work that has been done by the ladies 
during the period since they first began working, 
and their present projects. Finally, An gave an 
interesting account of the development at Xotre 
Dame since the early days, and gave a picture of 
the growth and present facilities. The historical 
angle was very appropriate, since among us was 
an alumnus who entered Xotre Dame in 189G and 
received his degree in 1900. Simple arithmetic will 
show that he has been out 61 years. He Js ALFRED 
J. DUPERIER, '00. While here. Art went on to Port Arthur for a visit uith the CHRIST\' FL.\X­AGANS , %vho were also at the dinner. 

Present from Xotre Dame were tlic guests of honor, Mr. and Mrs. J. ARTHUR HALEY, '26. From Beaumont there were Mr. and Mrs. C. E. BROUSSARD, *I3; Mr. and Mrs. SHELBY A. ROMERE, '36; Mr. and Mre. JOSEPH T. MUL­L.4LLY, '35; ^^r. and Mrs. LEO J. MDCSOX, '23; Mr. and Mrs. JOE BROUSSARD H, MI; Mr. and Mre, G. P. DO^XE, '35; Mr. and Mrs. ALFRED 
J. DUPERIER, '00; Mr. and Mrs. JOHX T. DON­NELLY, '42; Dr. and Mm. H. H. YANG, '53; Mr. and Mm. JOHX GEIS, '35; Mr. and Mrs. JOHX M. GREEN (parents), and Mr. GEORGE 
E. MURPHY, '19. From Port Arthur came Mr. and Mrs. R. T. BRAUX, SR., '14; Mr. and Mrs. 
R. T. BRAUX, JR., '54; Mr. and .Mrs. VICTOR 

S. COLLETTI, '44; Mr. and -Mrs. CHRIST\' FU\XAGAN, '28; Mr. LEO J. H.\NXOX, '09; Mr. EDWARD L. HEARTFIELD, '60, and a guest. From Port Xeclics came Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS 
J. MARTIN, '36; and from Orange, Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. BECK, '55; and Mr. and Mrs. LUIXO DELL'OSSO. JR. 
—CLYDE E. BROUSSARD. 
Boston 
TIic officers and directors sponsored a **Going 

Away Party" on September 7 at the University 
Club for Greater Boston boys entering the Uni\xr­
sity as members of the Class of 1965. An interest­
ing talk on Catholic college life was delivered by 
REV. RICHARD H. SULLIVAN, CS.a, '34, 
president of Stonehill College. Chairman TOM 
FLYNN, '35, proWded campus films and light 
refreshments. 
Congratulations to the men who made sucli a 

success of the Family Picnic held at Stonchill Col­
lege in June. 
A successful Victorv- Dance is planned for No­vember 11 at the Cambridge Boat Club. Tlie dance will be under the supervision of DICK HYLAX'D, '50, and it is hoped that all alumni and friends of the University will be there. Tlic enthusiasm re­sulting from the trip to Miami last Xovxmbcr for the Xotre Dame football game prompted the Club to offer an all-expense plane excursion to the cam­pus on October 28 for the Northwestern game, on to Miami for a fabulous week of surf and sun, return to the irampus on November 4 for the Xa\y game, and then back to Boston. Co-cliairmen WILLI.\M DACEY, JR., '49, and TLM TOO.MEY, '30, anticipated a good crowd for tlie trip. 
Chairman NEIL FOUXER, *47, of the Scliolar­ship Fund Drive reports the early returns indicate the members arc pushing the sale of tickets for the awards to be donated by tlie Club at the Victor>* Dance on Xovembcr II. Included among the €»veled gifts to be given away is an all-expense plane trip for two to the S>Tacusc \s. Notre Dame football game on the campus. 
Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday will be held on December ID this year and CHARLES COLTOX, *29, will serve as diairman. 
With the departure from tliis area of WILLIAM 

J. O'BRIEN. '44, BILL DACEY. '49, lias been named by tlie University to head the Foundation Drive. ^Vithout your assistance Bill's job \rill be impossible, so when you hear from him, co-operate and contribute real big. 
Neu-comers residing in the Hub area temporarily or permanently are asked to notify the Club Sec­retary' of tlieir residence here and their names 
26 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
CHICAGO—Two late summer events packed 'em in around the the Windy City (from Ieft):|r Jim Armstrong, Father Joyce, and former watch-charm guard Bert Metzger strike a serious note at the Sports Night Dinner; while Father Barry and tcnnis-wTestling 
coach Tom Fallon (right foreground) meet Freshman Reception in September. 
will be added to our mailing list. The Club address is Bos 887. Boston 3, Mass. —JIM MURPHY, '56, Sec>-. 
Buffalo 
The Buffalo Club's Golf Outing was held July 27tli at the Lancaster Countr>- Club. GARY WEB­STER was chairman of this cnJo>*able afternoon and evening. By colnddcnce, but certainly no fluke, Gary was low gross winner \vith a handsome 74. Jx\CK COXSIDIXE was runner up with an 84. JACK KUHLMAN was low net winner with a 75. 
HUGH DEVORE, freshman coach at scliool, 

was excellent as our guest speaker. 
BILL KANE lias been appointed chairman of the Buffalo Club's excursion to the Syracuse vs. Notre Dame football game on November 18th at Notre Dame. Syracuse and Notre Dame Alumni from Erie, Pa., to Sjxacuse have been notified of tliis trip. Bill and his committee have organized a great holiday for a small price. Tlie train will leave Buffalo early Friday morrung, stopping only to pick up excursionists along the route and uill arrive In Chicago early Friday evening. Buses will take us to and return ns from the stadium on Satur­day. There will be ample time before and after the game to greet friends and former classmates. 
Another memorable night in Chicago, and after Mass late Sunday morning we will all enjoy a restful trip back home, arriving in Buffalo Sunday evening. 
Tlie low, low price of $69.50 a person includes meals, set ups, soft drinks and beer, from Buffalo to Chicago and return. . . . 
Don't shove please, there's room for everyone!!!! For reservations please call FRED SCHEPPMAX of the Eric Lackawanna Railroad at TL 2-2488. —JA.MES F, C\SEY, '44, Secx-. 
Central New Jersey 
The Xotre Dame Club of Central Xew Jersey planned a busy fall scliedule for 1961. 
On September 12th, we welcomed the prospective freshmen to the Xotre Dame family. Tliis year We Invited fathers and mothers to attend with their sons and wives of club members also at­tended. President JOE SEPKOSKI sdicduled some Xotre Dame films and a talk by REV. STEPHEN FIXDLEY, O.S.B. 
A great deal of thought and attention has gone into making the Challenge Rally on October I7th a great success. It was our hope to have bet^vecn 80 and 100 workers present for a stag dinner to be highlighted by an address by FATHER HES­BURGH in a movie to follow. Tlie meeting was tcntatlx'cly planned for the Johnson and Johnson Dining Room In X*ew Brunswick, but greater de­tails will be available locally. 
In Xovembcr we shall hold our regularly sched­uled business meeting, and on December 10th, wc again will have Communion Sunday wlilcit Is always well attended. 
—^VILLIA^f M. RICHARDSON. Secy, 

Calumet Region 
Tlie Club held its annual Golf and Dinner Party on July 20 at Woodmar Country Club. Golfers, 
 fathers and sons at the traditional 
guests of Woodmar members in the Club, teed off all day right up to 4:30 p.m, A Cornish Hen din­ner followed In the clubhouse, complete until prizes and prominent guests, 
A dues drive for 1961-62 began in July. 

Calumet Clubbers returned to the Woodmar for cocktails, dinner and participation in the network of Notre Dame Challenge Rallies on Oct. 17. 
Central New York (Syracuse) ^ 
X'ew students and tlicir fathers were the guests of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Central Xe%v York at the annual Student Send-off which was held at tlic Bellc\*uc Country Club, Syracuse, Neiv York on September 6, 1961, GEORGE aWA ­NAUGH, nationally-known parliamentarian and prominent Catholic lav'man, delivered a most in­spiring talk on the subject of ''Communism and Catholic Education," Tlie new students were chal­lenged to utilize the opportunities ahead of them at Xotre Dame in order that they might equip themselves to lead active lives as Catholic lavTiicn. 
.•\t a business meeting after the Send-off, the fol­lowing new officers were elected for the coming vcan President, JOHX R, VARXEY, '53; \ncc-Prcsident, THOMAS W, STUBLER, '54; Secre­tary, JAMES E, SCH.\nDT, '51; and Treasurer, FREDERICK I, DELxVXY, '55. g ) 
It \x^ announced by WILLLVM H.ASSCTT and THOMAS QUIXL.-\X, co^hairmen of the Notre Dame Foundation Fund Drive in this area, that a kick-off meeting would be held at the Bcllcxiic Country Club on October 17, I96I, to Inaugurate the area solicitation. Tom Quinlan stressed the need for funds to be used to assist Notre Dame in assuming its rightful place of leadership as the foremost Catholic university in the world. 
In addition, plans were formulated for the annual Smoker to be held at Bob Casey's Inn, DcWitt, Xcw York at 2 p.m., October 28, 1961. At this event, two tickets to the Xotre Dame-Syracuse game were to be awarded. 
—TOM STUBLER, Vice-Pres. 

Chicago 
• October 17 was a red letter day for X'otrc DamcA^ alumm in the Chicago area. Along with alumni across the country, we "kicked ofP' the ambitious fund raising program with a grand party at Chi­cago's beautiful new convention hall — McCormlck Place. Wc started the evening off on a reverent note with Mass. Mler dinner we enjoyed the pro­gram and left the glistening new hall on the shore of Lake Michigan ^\ith a determination to make a real contribution to Xotre Dame's "Program for the Future." 
PHIL FACCEXDA, '51, former president of the club. Is General Appeal Chairman for the campaign. He is working with RAY DURST, '26, who is Special Gifts Chairman. ^Vssisting Pliil arc JOHX* MORLEY, '35, and FRANK MILLIGAN, '45. Area cliamncn will supervise the **grass roots" work in our campaign. Tliey are VERNE KEL­LEY, '50, North Side; GEORGE RASS.\S, '41, North Suburban; JOE ARCHIBALD, '50, WestA Suburban; JACK MOYNAHAN, '57, West Towns;*' JIM CRONIX. '35, South Side; and JUSTIN OTOOLE, '36, South Suburban. Captains and 
hundreds of **u'orkcrs** will function under these _ chairmen to reach more tlian 3.000 alumni in this W area. According to the information we have, more 
X.D. alumni live in this area than any other in the world. In fact, wc now have about 10 per cent of all X.D. alumni in Cliicago and vicinity. 
More than 300 N.D. alumni and friends in this area enjoyed another wonderful Golf Tournament and Sports Xight Dinner this year at Elmhurst Countr^- Club as guests of Col. Frvd Snite. FR^VXK MURXANE, '49, KEX SCHUSTER, '49, and CHUCK FALKEXBERG, '52, ser%ed as co-chair­men of the successful outing, which was held on August 7. 
Football Coach JOE KUHARICH, who came in early to reWevv prospects with the Chicago sports­writers at lunch, enjoyed a hearty buffet meal and then took a look at the 19G1 edition of the Fight­ing Irish. Athletic Director "MOOSE" KR/\USE also was on hand. 
Toaslmaster for the evening's program was 

9 "Whisperin' '^ JOE WILSOX, who gained national fame as the **voicc" on the bowling telecasts. Among those he introduced were club president JOE PAGLIARI, '53, and Alumni Secretary JIM ARMSTROXG, '25. Also on hand %vere FATHER JERO.ME WILSOX, FATHER JOHX WALSH, and FATHER EDMUXD JOYCE, executive vice-president of the University. 
.•\ good number of those present went atvay happy because the committee presented 15 golf prizes and appn>.\iniatelv 80 door prizes. Committee members inchidtd JIM RATHER, '56; AL HAXEY, '53; PAT MOXTROY, '53; JERRY PR/\SSAS, '55; JERRY BR.\XSFIELD, '55; VIC KROEGER, '52; TO.M KIXG, '49; and STEVE REBOR.\, '55. AL McGUFF, '34, gained possession of the SnIte Memorial Trophy by firing a hot 7G over the rough Elniliiirst course. 
JL\I JEXXIXGS, '51, did his usual fine job in 

A preparing for our annual Fallier-Son reception, whicl) was held in the Old Salem Room of the Lake Shore Club on September 12. .An inspirational talk by TOM FALLOX of the University's athletic department highlighted the evening's pro­gram, whidi also included a short film and a "cof­fee hour." This always is one of our most worth­while activities since it allows the boys to meet one another before going to the campus. 
Our next major event will be the Knutc Rocknc Dinner in December. At this time the club will present a trophy to tlic outstanding high school football player in the Chicago area. 
A merr>' Christmas and a happy Xew Year to all from the officers and directors of the club! —PAUL FULLMER, '55, Scc\-. 

^ Cincinnati (A 
In a recent election, the following officer^ were installed for the coming '61-'62 season: President, JOHX McCOR-\nCK; \^cc-Pre3ldent, JOHN' R. LaBAR; Secreiar>-, CILVRLES LI.MA; and Treas­urer, AXDREW ROH.VX. 
On Tuesday, Sept. 5, the Club held its annual picnic welcoming the area's Incoming Freshmen. After a steak fry, the freshmen and their dads were introduced and then enjoyed a half-hour film on the University. PAT S&VLL^VX, '57, was in cliarge of the affair. 
—CHUCK LI.MA, '58, Sec>-. 
Cleveland 
On August 17 the annual Duffers' Party was held at Lakcwood Country Chib. featuring golf, dinner, prizes and guests (head football coach JOE KU­HARICH, frosh coacli HUGH DEVORE, etc) plus a drawing for deluxe golf equipment, with proceeds going to the Scholarship Fund. Co-chair­man were JOE SCHRIXER and BOB BOUHALL. IIonorar>- chairman was JOHN* CHAPL/\. 
A special ba^Iness meeting was held at the Uni­versity* Club September 12 for the two-fold end of amending the Club Code to increase the board of directors and to welcome new freshmen and their fathers. 
A cocktail dance was held September 23 at the Statler Hotel, and October saw the beginning of a scholarship fund drive, the prize being a six-day trip to Bermuda, drawing for which was held on October 17, date of the national X'otrc Dame Rally. Future events include the Club Communion Breakfast on December 11 and the Christmas Dance at the Statler Hotel December 29. 
Pravcrs are requested for these recently deceased: the wife of FRAXK CULL, father of FRED XAEGLE, mother of JOHX P. BUTLER, father of ROBERT and RICILVRD STRICKLER, and the mother of ROBERT .MORRISSEY. 
Dallas 
The Xotrc Dame Club of Dallas held Its annual summer party for members and guests on July 29, 1961, The location of the gathering was at '"Snug Harbor,*' a summer resort area just north of Dallas. 
The party included a catered chuck wagon din­ner, dancing, set-ups and beer. 
It was an enjoyable affair. 
Our next function was a stag smoker In Sep­tember for departing students and their parents. —DOX HARRIS, Secy. 
Dearborn 
The annual infonual Summer Dance under the Stars was held July 22 in the gardens of JERRY SARB in AVcst Dearborn. A moderate charge cov­ered a buffet dinner, beer, soft drinks, set-ups, and recorded music. A committee of wives was headed by Pat Sarb, Roseinar\' Dolan, and Char­lotte Kelty. 
A general meeting at the home of DICK KIXG on September 8 had as an attendance prize two tickets to the X.D.-Xorthweslem game, and plans were made for the next two events: the annual Stag Party at Warren Valley Club on September 21, featuring golf, a sirloin dinner, refreshments, golf and door prizes, arranged by DON' HICKS and JERRY KELLY; and a football trip by bus to the X'.D.-Michigan State game In East Lansing. The Dearborn community also played host to De­troit and other local Xotre Dame groups for the nation-wide Xotre Dame Rally on October 17. 
Decatur, Illinois 
Tlic Xotrc Dame Club of Deiratur, Illinois, held it$ annual golf outing on July 11. I96I. BILL DOWXIX G was chairman of the event which was held at the Country Club of Decatur. The function was well attended, and after handicaps had been 

applied all scores were remarkably dose. Our annual meeting and election of officers At'as to be held on October 13, 1961. JOE DONAVAN, diairman of the meeting, had been planning this event for some time and wc looked for^^-ard to another enjoyable evening. STEVE GIL\LIKER has advised us that Decem­ber 3, 1961, is the date for our Communion Break­fast. Congratulations are certainly In order to JIM 
UHL, our president, and to the chairmen of tEc \-arious functions held this year for a job well done. —EUGEXE FORAX, Secy. 
Denver 
Tlic annual raffle of two all-expense paid trips to a home football game was handled bv DICK A-\IES, '40, and JI.M HILGER, '56. The proceeds go to the Club's scholarship fund. The Burlington 
R.R. runs a special train each year from Denver. This year to the Savy game and all expenses to and from are paid by the Denver Club for the winners. 
The Xotre Dame Alumni Rally on Oct. 17 was held at the beautiful 26 Club high above Denver with a cocktail hour preceding the nationwide broadcast. TIic alumni working so hard on this and on the Alumni Special Gifts Fund Raising committees were headed bv GERRY SMITH, DR. PHIL CLi\RKE, BOB L^TS'X, C.\RL EIBERGER and BOB ZEIS. 
The Colorado Xotre Dame Club, composed of students at the University, had a going away party at the home of BILL HALEY. Tlie alumni presi­dent, C{\RL EIBERGER, and his wife attended to welcome the new* freshman and to wish luck to all in the next year. Plans have been made by R.AY TRITZ of the alumni dub and L,ARRY McGR^VW of the campus dub for the annual dance during Christinas vacation. 
The Club picnic was held August 6 at Upper FIIIus Park under the co-chalrmanship of Jlif SHEEHAX and JOHX SHEIBELHUT. Monthly luncheons (first Wednesday) continue at the X'avarrc Restaurant. JOHN LATTXER and GERRV SMITH were co-chairmen of the annual sports luncheon at the Brown Palace West, with the Broncos' FRAXK TRIPUCKA, the D.C. Truckers' JOHX DEE and others. The first annual golf outing at Park Hill Country Club was very suc­cessful under the direction of MIKE HALLIG.AX. JACK RY.-VX turned in the top score. 
The new scholarship committee indudes: .ART GREGORY, Chainnan; JOHN MORAN, MSGR. GEORGE EVANS, DON KLANE, CHUCK B.\1ER,. TO.M CURRIGAN, CARL EIBERGER and JIM SHEEHAN. They are busy contacting senior stu­dents at Catholic high schools. 
—MIKE HALLIGAN, Secy. 

Detroit 
The Xotrc Dame Club of Detroit at its annual business meeting elected the following to its Board of Directors: JAMES N. MOTSCHALL, a M. VERBIEST, JOSEPH H. DIMOND, WILLIAM 
C. RONEY, JR., LAWRENCE O. SMITH, JR., LOUIS G. BASSO, JR., and JOHN C .MURR.W. 
TIic ofHcers elected for the 1961-62 year are: WILLIAM C. RONEY, JR., president; WARREN 
BALTIMORE—Officers and U.N.D. Night guests at the head table in Bemie Lee's, Towson, Md., included: (I.-r.) Bobby Williams, Foundation chairman, and Mrs. Williams; Mrs. and President-elect Bill Gaudreau, retiring _ ^ ©secretary; Mrs. and Judge Gil Prendergast, principal spealier; Bill Ryan, chainnan; Frank Murphy, retiring president; Rev. Austin Murphy, chaplain; Mrs. and retiring Vice-President Dan Sullivan. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 17 
J. ASHLEY, first vice-president; WILLIAM F. ANHUT, second vice-president; LOUIS G. BASSO, JR., sccrciarx-; and JOHN C. AfURR/lV. treasurer. 
Tlie Annual Golf Party was held on July lltli. JOHN B. HIGGINS, '58, and TOM P. MOORE, '58. were co-chairmen and provided a vcr>' enjoy­able day for those who attended. 
LLO^'D SYRON, '58, toured North Hills with a 71 (a 33 on the front nine) and walked ofT with the tropliy. 
JOHN E. COURTNEY, BOB BATISTA, and JOHN NEIS have been bus>- making arrangements for the Fall Parr>- that was held on Sept. 13lh at the Veterans Memorial Bldg. Advance reports indi­cated that the program would be outstanding and would include several national sporting figures in addition to our own NICK PIETROS.\NTE, JIM MARTIN, GUS CIFELLI and BOB SCHULTZ. 
An event whicli no member should have missed look place on Tuesday, Oct. I7th. BILL .\NHUT headed the committee and mtcnded to make thr 
N.D. "Challenge" Rally a memorable event for all in attendance. 
A deserving M.\L KNxVUS was honorird as our "Outstanding Man of the Year" at the past Uni­versal Notre Dame Night. Congratulations not only to Mai but also to LOU CONROY, RAY BONINI and ED GILBERT who worked to make ihc event the success that it was. 
Our own PETE KERN/VN, JR., has been nom­inated for a three year term on the Board of Directors of the Alumni Association. Good luck in the coming election, Pete. 
A trip was arranged to East Lansing on Oct. 2Ist to \\'atclt the ''Fighting Irish" break the **Spartan" jinx. (JOHN ANHUT made all the arrangements except for the score of the game.) 
The last event scheduled for the year 19GI is the Cliristmas Dance. JACK MURR/U' has already commenced preparations to insure a good time for alL 
Any alumnus living in tlie Detroit Metropolitan Area who is not receiving Club mail should con­tact LOU BASSO —WO 1-2314. 
—LOUIS G. B.\SSO, Secv". 

Erie 
The Notre Dame Club of Erie held its last ac­tivity of the summer season on September 7th. The occasion was a send olT part\' for the in­coming Notre Dame Freshmen held at the summer home of LEO BRUGGER. LEO BRUGGER, JR., x«islcd in making the arrangements for the afTair whidi honored the seven incoming freshmen, their friends and families. Tlie lakeside picnic was attended by more than sixty Notre Dame students, alumni, their friends and families. 
Tfic alumni goU outing and dinner dance was held on June 24th at the Culbertson Hills Countrj-Club attended by more than thirty-five Notre Dame alumni, their wives and dates. In charge of the arrangements were TONY Z.\MBROSKI, JACK YOUNG, J.\CK PALMIS.VNO and RICH­ARD McCORMICK. 
• Richard D. Daley, '17, died on Scplcmhcr 6, 1961. He was manager of national advertising for the Erie Times. Rcquiescat in pace. 
—WILLIAM J. DWA'ER, '53, Sec>-. 

Fort Lauderdale 
At our June meeting, FRANK BUDKtV, sopho­more quarterback at the University, addressed the local membership at the Sun Castle Hotel, and it it our hope and wish that he conducts himself as ably on the gridiron as he did addressing our group. Good Luck, Frank! 
Plans have long been completed for the National Notre Dame Rally \*-hich was to be held by all area Clubs on October 17th. Our rally will have been a joint venture with the Palm Beacli Club and will have included a day of golf at the Palm Aire Countr>' Club followcti by a cocktail party and bufTct. 
Congratulations to our president, TOM WALK­ER, '42, for his nomination as a candidate for a three-year term on the national Alumni Association Board of Directors. Tom is one of Fiorida's lead­ing casualty insurance undenmters and an all-out Notre Dame man. ^Vc hope all Eastern Sea­board alumni will support Tom's bid and help him to be as great a servant of Alma Mater as the late FRANK WALKER, '09. 
—TOM AUUS, Sco-. 

78 NotTe Dame Alumnus^ November, 1961 
CINCINNATI—Delayed photo of Notre Dame Night at Netherland Hilton, attended by more than 200, shows (from left) 1960 N.D. Man of the Year John W. Fead presenting the 1961 award to J. Robert McCafferty, a former Club president, as Father Hcsburgh and Bertrand J. Schlocmcr, 1960-61 president of the Cincinnati 
oi^anization, extend congratulations. 
Fort Wayne 
The Notre Dame Stag Picnic i»7is lieJd Septem­ber 12 at the Southwest Conser\-alion Club starting in the early afternoon. Featured were the usual beverages. Southern fried cliicken, potato salad, etc, plus football for the hardy, volle\ball for the young at heart, and cards for all who felt lucky. 
Grand Rapids and Western Michigan 
On ^^ay 12, 1961, three new members were nom­inated to the Board of Directors of the Grand Rapids and Western Micliigan Notre Dame Club. They are: EDWARD J. REILLY (.A.B. '56, XLA. '57, CI. '55), JI.M NACHTEGALL (B. Arch. *51), and GODFREY VANDER WERFF (LL.B. *56). 
At the meeting on May 25, 1961, nominations and elections were passed and voted with the fol­lowing men to ser\e as officers for the vear 1961­1962: President, ROBERT A. KIRCHGESSNER 
(B.S.C. '52); \nce-PrcsIdcnt, JOSEPH H. MEAD 
(A.B. '54); Treasurer. JIM NACHTEGALL; and Secretary-, GODFREY V^\NDER \\'ERFF. 
Two meetings were held recently to discuss events for the Fall and Winter of 1961 and Winter and Spring of 1962. Tlie immediate events being planned were the annual football excursion (this year to East Lansing for the Michigan State game), annual golf outing, and the "Challenge" Rally on October 17, 19G1. for the Foundation. 
—GODFREY VANDER WERFF, Secy. 

Hawaii 
In this issue you will find a picture taken at a reception and dinner held at the Pacific Club In Honolulu at whicli we said aloha to FATHER HESBURGH and six of our eight incoming Notre Dame freshmen. *'.-\Ioha'* has a dual meaning — namely, hello and goodbv. As wc welcomed FATHER HESBURGH, we bade farc%vell at the same time to our brand new Notre Damcrs. 
It was a pleasure to welcome FATHER HES­BURGH when he arrived and to entertain him tiiat evening. Unfortunately his schedule in tlic Islands was a ver\* bus>' one which precluded show­ing off our Hawaiian hospitality. 
Tlie evening of .August 30, 1961, will be long remembered by the Notre Dame family in Hav\^ii. Wc surpassed all prexious attendance records. FATHER HESBURGH told us of the dreams and hopes of Notre Dame and inspired and • sparked enthusiasm from all present. ^Ia^y thanks to the Alumni oHicc for the prompt notice of his plans to come to Hait-aii. 
—DON MACHADO, *50, Prcs. 

Indianapolis 
The annual family picnic of the Notre Dame ^ Club of Indianapolis was held August 20th at the Lad>'Wood School in Indianapolis. Chairman J.ACK ELDER had the largest turnout ever. He was ably assisted bv P.AT FISHER, ART KR^VNZFELD, JOE GOR.MLY and GEORGE USHER. PAT FITZGERALD'S Scholarship tickets. In conjunc­tion with the Scholarship Ball committee (MIKE FOX, cliairman; TO.M BULGER, DICK Mc-N.AMARA and I^VRRY RICHART), are making it possible for the club to increase their scliolar­ships 50% ciTcctivc 1962. It" is anticipated to double the present Scholarship Fund bv 1963. President BILL SAHM, "The Driver," ' Is the main force in making this possible by having all club functions pay for themselves and usually make money. 
On September 7, the Alumni officers met wJtli the Campus Club officers. BILL MOONEY and JIM M WELCH arc to be liaison men berivccn the alumni and students. 
Sunday, September 10, the Campus Officers had an orientation party for the new freshmen from the Indianapolis area at the home of JIM WELCH. Catliedral High School, Indianapolis, has the dis­tinction this year of having more of Its senior graduates attend the University as freshmen than any other high scliool in the countr>-. Cathedral is run by the C.S.C. Brothers. 
A Glee Club Concert is anticipated with JOE DeS.\UTELS and CHARLES WAGNER as co-chairmen sometime in late January. It has been se\eral years since the Notre Dame Glee Club ha­niade an appearance in Indianapolis. 
Communion Breakfast Chairman JOHN R. WELCH and committeemen ED McN.\MARr\ and BEN KOEBEL are making big plans for some­time in December. 
The entire club was deeply sorrowed bv the tragedy of the J. ALBERT SMFIH family In .August. Al's wife, father-in-la\%" and one daughtiT were killed in an auto-train accident. Al and tl­other daughter, who were injured, are well on i!. road to rccovcr>-. AI, Jr. is a senior at the Ur. versity and Bill is a freshman. 
The Club Secrctarj* is happy to announce '-" arrival last May 26, of James C. Wclcli, 11. Br mother and son arc doing wonderful. Father still in orbit. 
—JAMES C. ^\•ELCH, '50, S-­

Kansas City 
The Notre Dame Club of Kansas City held annual Freshman Send-K)!! dinner at the Blue H ' Black Angus, Kansas City, September 7, I--Flftcen new Notre Dame men were Introdu: A to the representative group of alumni in atte:. • ance. We were very fa\-orably impressed y-'' these young men and were glad that so many well qualified new students will represent this area at 
• the University. GEORGE BROUSSARD was the chairman of the event. An cnjo>"abIe evening was had by all. 
The Oklalioma game was chosen for the football trip, this year. Approximately one hundred people left Kansas City Thursday noon, September 28th by Santa Fc Streamliner for Chicago. Tliey en­joyed first class accommodations at the Executive House on the near north side. Also included in the package trip were transportation by Grey-bound bus to and from South Bend and Chicago, the ticket for the ball game and refreshments on the train to and from Chicago. Tlie trip was a great success. JOHN MASSMAN and JIM HIG­GINS were co-chairmen. 
RUSS FARRELL and JLM DeCOURSEY at­tended the leadership conference for the Notre Dame Foundation held on the campus. August 27th and 28th. Tlic meeting was a prelude to the inspirational Notre Dame "Challenge" Rally whicli was partidpatcd in by the Kansas City Club, October 17, 1961. Co-chairmen of the rally were ED AYLWARD and RUSS FARRELL. 
Plans arc under way for the annual Christmas dance. —Cx\RL B. ERFFMEYER, '51, Secy. 
Kentucky 
The summer meeting of the Notre Dame Club of Kentucky, held at Audubon Country Club, was highlighted with the showing of "Communism on the Map" and "Operation *\bolition." Ml mem­bers who attended agreed that both films were in­teresting and informative, and the lack of air con­ditioning was but a small price to pay for the night's activities. JACK MUELLER, '51, intro­duced new Club members from the class of '60 and '61. Welcome also to JACK ADAMS, '58, who is presently uorklng for the Du Pont Com­pany. 
Thanks to RONNIE MAZZOLI, '53, for the time and effort which he spent preparing for a very successful summer outing, M per custom the out­ing was a joint affair with the Xavicr University .\Iumni who managed to re-capture the Little Brown Jug. This trophy, signifying baseball "su­periority,'* slipped from the hands of the N.D. Club in spite of the stellar performance of an all-star cast including DICK EVERETT, '51; JIM HENNESSEY, '51; LEE STEIDEN, '51; JIM KREBS, '56; JACK MUELLER, '51; BUD WIL­LENBUNK, *50; and RON MAZZOLI, '53. Tlierc is some talk of a "protest" or "fix," since our water boy was supplying the N.D. All-Stars with "foam" while the Xavicr men were playing it straight. Along with the ball game, the alumni enjoyed themselves with golf, volleyball, cards and 

o 
a biff fried diicken dinner. The turn-out was excellent with some of the welcome faces includ­ing LEO BROWN, '50; PAUL MALONEY, '52; BERNIE BOWXING, '43; BILL BOSLER, '42; JOE BOWLING, '52; JIM HECK, '51; HENRY -MAYER, and "DIAMOND" JIM a\REY, '51. 
During the summer the baclielor ranks were thinned when RICK REMMERS, '58, met Mary Dean at the foot of the altar. Tliey were soon followed by BILL BOLAND, '59, and Barbara Kaelin. Our best wishes for a Jong and happy life together. There was further consternation amongst the senior baclielors when the word of RUSS DAGES' engagement to Mary Pat Ilalbach was announced. Our congratulations, along another vein, to ROG HUTER who was appointed to the Alumni Association Board of Directors. Rog re­placed GEORGE CONNOR. 
The fall and winter seasons promise a full cal­endar of events for Notre Dame men. On October 17 the local Club participated in the Notre Dame "Challenge" Rally in connection with the Founda­tion Drive. Tliis was planned xs a slag event at whicli a buffet lunch would be 5er\-ed. The annual Family Communion Supper is scliedulcd for De­cember 8, and will be followed on December 30 by the N.D.-Kcntucky basketball game. All Clubs in this area are innted to join our cheering sec­tion for this game, and enjoy the post game ac­tivities. Drop a line for game tickets to cither JACK MUELLER or TO.M BR^\ND. 
—TOM BR.\ND, Secy. 
Lansing 
The annual Notre Dame Alumnt Picnic — for alumni, wives, parents, students and friends — was held June 24 at the home of Mary and DICK SCHNEIDER. It was a potluck affair managed by Mary Schneider, and it brought a fine turnout of 48. 
The Fourth Annual Golf Outing, August 8, at Brook Hollow Country Club in Williamston, offered a day of golf followed by dinner addressed by 
N.D. assistant coach BRAD LYNN as a "mys­tery-" guest speaker. Chairman JOHN PO^VERS said the stag turnout of 20 "should have been better." 
JIM ARMSTRONG was in town for a Com­munity Chest speech Oct. 9. 
Tlie "Challenge Rally" Oct. 17 at the Albert Pick Motor Hotel was followed by a football rally Oct. 20 sponsored by the Club at K. of C. Hall before the N.D.-ALS.U. game. PAUL DeROSE was in charge of a fund drive with football tickets as prizes. 
—JOHN F. POWERS, Secy. 
Lehigh Valley 
TIic Club held its first event of the '61-'62 pro­gram by gathering at A-Trcat Farms in Schnecksvillc, Pa., for a summer picnic The affair was well attended and enjoyed by all (except per­haps BERT DADAY, '52, who accidentally was pushed into the pool fully clothed). The "Old Timers" softball game was again won by the Old Timers. BERT DADAY, '52, pitclied for the losers. The gathering was pleasantly surprised with a visit by HUGH DEVORE who was passing through to attend the Eagles-Bears game at Her­shcy. Pa. The Club has suffered the loss of both Its President—LOU W^'NNE, '51, and Vice Presi­dent—AL DONIUS, '54, who have been trans­ferred out of town by their employers. Two new alumni have moved into the area, however, BILL FRET.AGUE, '43, and BILL KIRCHNER, '57. 
The Club held its annual Scndoff Meeting for twenty local students returning to Notre Dome at the Hotel Traylor in .•Mlentown on September 6. 1961. JIM ALLEN, '60, was cliairman of the affair which was well attended by the alumni, students, their families, and friends. The movie, "Notre Dame,"^ was the entertainment attraction followed by an informal get-together. 
Information concerning the Club's functions which are planned for the Fall season were made known. LEO McINTYRE, '28, will act as cliair­man for Notre Dame Rally Nite to be held Oc­tober 17, 1961. VINCE HOHL, '58, will co-ordinate the Football Trip and Raffle for the Pitt-N.D. game at Pittsburgh on November II, 1961, 
—BOB STRALEY, '53, Pres. 
Los Angeles 
TIic Family Theater dedicated their new build­ing on August 15, and quite a few N.D. men turned out to pay their respects to FATHER PEY­TON and his C.S.C. contingent. Among those present, in addition to your reporter, were: JUDGE a\RBERRY, '35, and his family: WALT SCHRAD­ER, '38, and his witc; JOE SCOTT, '52, and, of course, FATHERS HEINZER, '41, and HIGGINS, '51. The building, whicli is beautiful, was dedi­cated by CARDINAL McIN*TYRE; and many of the entertainment notables were there. 
On August 27 the Club procured a block of tickets for the Angels-Red Sox. game and cheered for CARL VASTRZEMSKI. Cari posed with JOHN FRAMPFON (San Gabriel). ED DOWL­ING (San Fernando) and myself. Wc were loud but not too effective as the Angels H-alked away with the game. Carl hit a double hrs first time up but was tagged trying to stretch it for three bases. 
DR. JOHN MEANY, '51, keeps the Club posted on lectures at Loj-ola University. The L.A. area participated heavily for the N.D> Challenge Rally on October 17. 
—MORT GOODMAN, '30, Pres. 
Maine 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association of Maine held its annual summer picnic on Saturday, August 19 at the Martha Washington Inn Boathouse. An extremely good crowd was on ha«d and wc were honored by the attendance of FATHER LEONARD COLLINS, C3.C., Dean of Students at the Univer­sity, who very graciously spoke to the alumni about their stake in Notre Dame's future. Father Collins proved himself to be an outstanding good sport by umpiring the Softball game on a very hot and humid afternoon. There were some comments about his fairness but no one questioned his de­cisions. 
.-Vmong the alumni present were: LEN TOBIN, PAUL SCULLY, JOE DOYLE, ADAM WALSH, RICHARD BILODEAU, D.ANA DEVOE, JOHN BELIVEAU, ED FARRELL, JR., ED FARRELL, HI, NOILM TREMBLEY, MIKE SALTER, TONY SILVA and yours truly. Two new prospective students were in attendance, STAN LIBERTY and VIN ALLEN. Keep your eye on Vin as a catcher on the baseball team. 
Gratifying it was that this time we received a 
reply Irom almost every alumnus and we arc quite 
sure that those who were unable to attend were really sorry to have missed this event as wc were sorry they were not able to be with us. 
New officers of the Club for I961-I962 are MIKE S.\LTER, president; PAUL SCULLY, Wee-presi­dent; JOE DOYLE, treasurer; RAY GEIGER, secretary; NORM TREMBLEY, area vice-presi­dent; and TONY SILV.A, area ricfi-president. 
Because of the scattered alumni in our State it was not possible for us to conduct a formal rally on October 17. However we planned to have about four meetings in as many areas at wiiich we hope to do our own little bit, particularly by having the alumni contribute 1(X)% this year. Ha^ang^ attended the Leadership Conference at Notre Dame I am mindful of the need for giving to this Fund and I was impressed with the formula for giving set up by the Conference which is realistic and 
should be more acceptable to each loyal Notre 
Dame man. 
Again a reminder that we are located ri^t at Exit 13 on the Maine Turnpike and alumni com­ing past our door should drop In to visit with us. 
—RAY GEIGER, Secy. 

DENVER—Part of the joyful throng at the Denver NJ>. dob's Family Picnic  i  
this summer high in the Rockies. Making like Taizan (extreme left) is  ]  
Club President Carl F. Eibcrgcr, '52.  
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961  19 j  

Manila 
*'It's 3 good thing your president isn't vcr>' tall," said one of the wives of the alumni after placing a lei on him. Tlic two ladies who welcomed FR. HESBURGH at the Manila airport barely made five feet. On hand to greet the president were the officers of the alumni club and mrmbers old and young. 
From the time Fr. He^burTgh stepped ofi" the 

plane he set a pace for the alumni that was back­
breaking for the leisurely Pliilippines. It was an 
informal dinner at the Kismet that evening and 
early the next day an hour-and-a-half's drive to 
Los Bafios to visit the Rice Research Institute, 
where Fr. Ilesburgli chatted with Dr. Chandler 
and studied the rice institute for the Rockefeller 
Foundation Board. By early evening he barely had 
time to freshen up when lie was whisked to the 
Far Eastern University, the counlr>-'s biggest, where 
the top educators of the land awaited him In a 
reception tendered in his honor- From the Far 
Eastern University straight to the Club Filipino 
for the alumni dinner. After an early monung 
Mass at the University of the Philippines Fr. Ues­
burgh gave a talk at the National Science Develop­
ment Board before leading scientists of the Phi­
lippines. Tliere was barely lime for lunch and a 
race to the airport. The tired but happy alumni 
could not help but feel sad and pleased. Sad for 
there seemed so little time and he had gone too 
soon. Pleased tliat he had managed a brief visit 
with us and that they had managed to give him 
a glimpse of Manila and Notre Dame alumni. 
The Manila Club's president, CONRADO S. S.\NCHEZ, JR., and the secretary-treasurer, lAUTlENCE GOTUACO, were on liand at the airport and organized the successful nsit. But the greater part of the credit went to Fr. Tlieodorc Hcsburgh and his personal charm. TIic alumni grinned happily, the wives sighed, the educators cheered, and the scientists nodded in agreement. At the Far Eastern University, more than its president, THEODORO EVANGELISTA, and the other scliool presidents, the student folk dancers wlio performed and the security guards with whom he chatted amiably were conquered with ease. 
Sidelights of Fr. Hesburgh's visit: The Alumni 
Club of the Philippines presented Fr. Hesburgh 
with a memento of his trip and a standing invi­
tation to return. A record turnout of Notre Dame 
"Filipino-Irish" from the oldest (Class of 1905), 
ALFONSO PONCE-ENRILE, to the newest 'Gl 
product, FRANCISCO ARANETA. 
The general impression left by Fr. Hcsburgh on 
tlie alumni and Filipino intellectuals was that 
here was a portrait of a twentieth century- edu­
cator. Tliat the times demanded more than just 
the old qualifications of brains, sobriety and ex­
perience from a university president was best seen 
in Fr. Hesburgh. Tlie essential qualities of youth, 
stamina, imagination and personal cliarm arc best 
diaracterizcd in Fr. Hesburgh. 
Fr, Hesburgh's visit not only extended Our Lad/s 
far reacliing embrace to the Filipino alumni but 
sharpened the Notre Dame graduates' awareness 
tliat tlieir responsibility was not only to themselves 
and their careers but to God and country- as well. 
\Vc hope Fr. Hesburgh remembers his visit to the 
Philippines as fondly as wc do. 
—ALFREDO R. ROCES, *54. 

Mansfield 
Since the May 10th meeting the following Mans­field Club events have transpired. 
On June 14 a combined business and social meet­ing w^as held with all the wives of members in­\itcd. Members gathered July 30 for a Family Picnic —with PETE MORIT2, '43, as chairman. 
The Club packed up and headed West on Sep­tember 30 on a football trip to the Oklahoma-Notre Dame game, uitli DICK WALTER, '41, as chairman. 
Scheduled for December arc the Immaculate Conception Family Communion and the Annual Holiday Dance. Committees and dcfimte dates for these activities will be announced at a later date. 
—DICK \VALTER, Scc>-. 

Memphis 
Early in September tlie Notre Dame Club of Memphis held the first annual sendolT banquet for the students and new frcslimcn. ^Ve were most fortunate to have Atliletic Director "MOOSE" KRAUSE as guest speaker. All who attended were unanimous in agreeing that he gave one of the best 
20 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 2961 
KENTUCKY—Father Hesburgh discusses alunini organization vfith Club Prc^dcnt John E. Mueller, Jr., '52, (left) and former President Paul Maloncy, '52, at ceremonies in Louisville. 
talks ^ve have ever had before our club. Tlianks, *'Moose.*' 
We were sony- to lose the Club secretary-, DICK CONNOLLY, '55, to Xcxv York City. Also our past president, MICKEY MORAN, *54, left us for Hartford, Connecticut. We wish them con­tinued success. 
—JOHN M. REYNOLDS, '56, Pres. 

Milwaukee 
The annual election meeting of the Notre Dame Club of ^^l«•aukee %*-as held on July 20, 1961, at the Knights of Columbus' Pere Marquette Council Hall. Officers elected for the 1961-62 Club* vear were: JACK WILKINSON, '51, president; VINCE SHIELY, '42, vice-president; TOM HERMAN, '57, corresponding secretary-; DON MACHENBERG, '57, recording secretary; and BOB RAAF, '42, treasurer. 
Tlie first actiWty of the new season — the annual Stag Golf Outing and Sports Night — ttas- held on August 10 at the Port Washington Country. Club. PAUL KELL did an outstanding • job as general cliairman of the event,* lind .'provided 'all who attended with an c'nJoyable,"_^fun-fillwl 'day. Approximately fifty Notre Dara'c-.meiiilecd bff"dur­ing the afternoon with x-arj-ing degrccs-*;of success. A refreshment-laden golf cart toured ""the .course throughout the hot afternoon, keeping ..spirits liigh for all. TOM VEECH led the field with a'blazing 67 to set a new course record and gain pcnnanent possession of our Club's golf trophy. 
Later in the evening, BILL MALANEY, master of ceremonies, presided over the Sports Night Steak Dinner ivliicli it^is attended by a fine crowd of 100 Notre Dame alumni and their guests. ED ".MOOSE" KRAUSE, X.D. athletic director, was guest speaker and entertained all with a lively commentary* on the world of sports. JOHN Mc-HALE, general manager of the Mihvaufccc Braves and a Club member, followed with a brief com* ment on the baseball scene, L.\RRY "MOON'» MULLINS, in lieu of a talk, led the diners in a rousing rendition of the Notre Dame Victory .Mareh. 
JIM OTT, who did a terrific job arranging the afternoon's golf program, was on hand to award golf prizes to TOM VEECH and runner-up DICK HOY. JACK WILKINSON, HARRY TROY, GENE SCHUMAKER, and BILLY SCHALLER were among the many golfers to be awarded prizes for winning special events whicli were held during the afternoon. Not to be outdone, BILL MA> LANEY and "MOOSE" KRAUSE, working with a roomful of gifts which had been assembled over the past weeks by hard-working BOB SAGGAU, passed out door prizes until almost cvcr>'one u'as a "winner." The evening closed on a high note of fellowslup and good cliecr. 
BILL GROGAN, '57, is heading up a fall mem­bership drive in the Milwaukee area whicli • we hope will lead to bigger and better activities throughout the coming year. 
—DON MACHENBERG, Secy. 

Mohawk Valley 
The Xfohauk Valley Alumni Club sponsored a football excursion to the N.D.-Syracusc game No­vember 18. VTith the recent speed up of ticket sales it appears this event will be a huge success. TONY GIRUZZI is general chairman of the event. 
Tlie Club has taken a vcty keen interest in our new Greater Utica Catholic High School for Bov-s. Probably the main reason being that the name "Notre Dame High School" was given this beauti­ful structure. We donated a huge statue of our Lady for the scfiool to be located in the main hallway. Tliis was presented to BROTHER HIL­LARY, principal of S'otrc Dame H. S., at a recent event. We also are offering, yearly, a plaque to the outstanding senior boy who best reflects ath­letic ability and scliolastic abilitv. Tliis plaque is called the JAMES R. MORATH Memorial Award in honor of our late brother alumnus who was killed in an automobile accident shortly after graduation. ^ 
Tlie National Rally of October 17th promised to be a huge affair here in this area. Early plans got under way for a dinner at a local countr>' club followed by a program featuring outstanding alumni and Catholic lay leaders of the area. V1NCEN*T FLETCHER, '32, spearheaded this'program from the beginning, baring been on campus twice for special meetings. 
—DAN CALLAN, Secy. 

Naugatuck Valley 
The University- of Notre Dame Club of the Naugatuck Valley had two functions over the summer. Tlie first of these was a state-wide Theatre Party at the Oakdale Musical Theatre in Wallingford, Conn., which was ver>' well, attended. Wc saw the "King and I." In August we had ^ our annual Family PJcnJc for the Naugatuck Valley W Club. 
Our scheduled program from. now. until, the first of the year is a full one. During September,- we planned to have an "N.D.- Night'!..'for'local-high school students. On this cvening,fWc^'inrited.^aH 'of the sophomores and juniors of the" local-; high" schools to one of the Waterbury high schools'-to discuss the University and its'plans for the Jiiture:'­
During October, wc hoped to" arrange a Thratre ­Party on a state-wide basis. Wc hope to make \ these Tlicatre Parties annual affairs as they^.seem to be an excellent source, for raising.-funds forouf. Scholarship. October also saw 'the Notre Dame '• Challenge Rally at the Waverly.; Inn. 
In No\-cmber we plan a Victory • Dinner Dance, . and in December wc are .going 'to.havcT 'a.Christ-• mas Party for the children and a'"Communion ",' Supper. • . . '^: 
—THOMAS E.; REILLY,' S^-. 

New Haven 
Last word from the area reportcdjthaf theNcw Haven Club had a picnic on June' 25. Ini-ited were all ar«i students as well as those Vvlio planned' to enroll in September, according to Sccrctarv JOHN CLARK. 
Also planned was a dessert and coffee .Notre Dame Rally at the Knights of St. Patrick Hall on October 17. 
New Mexico 
The Club's annual picnic %vas held on the Bene­dictine Monasier>- grounds at Pecos, New Mexico, on August 13th. JOE STUEVER and his com-m,_ mittec had a program that attracted 80 members ' and their families in spite of some welcome but threatening rain. 
DICK EVERROAD is chairmanlng a Challenge Program Rally tentatively (at thb writing) sched­uled for October 17tli at Reddy's Rendezvous in .Albuquerque. 
Longer-range plans call for the annual Club Communion Sunday and Breakfast to be held in early December. Mass will be at the Newman Center on the University of Neiv Mexico campus. 
Tlie Club's scltolarship contribution thb year was made on behalf of freshman student Douglas Lovejoy, Jr., the 1961 valedictorian of Pius X High School. 
—BILL HARVEY, Secy. 

New York 
The annal Club golf outing^ was held on June 27th at the Lccwood Golf Club in Tuckahoe. D.AN 
BRICK chainnancd a. perfect day includins swira­
^ ming and dinner after tl)c I8th hole. 
™ On June 29ih Mug Night \v'a5 held at the New York Athletic Club between 6-10:00 P.M. Many of the 1961 Grads stopped by for their most in­formal introduction to the Club. Some of the old timers included BILL SCHIERBERL, TOM RYDER, GEORGE TOMPKINS, BOB SECKLER, JI.M 0*SHEA, JOHN BURNS, CAS VANCE, TO.M BIL\DLEY and DAN CUNNINGHAM. 
The Home For Retarded Children, Brookville, Long Island, was the scene for our (irst family out­ing this year. It tvas held on July 8th from noon till 7:00. The day %vas complete with two swim­ming pools, play areas with swings, slides, etc., Softball, basketball and running races. JACK LE.MAIRE and ED FITEPATRICK were the co-chairmen. About 120 attended including AL LES­ME2, JIM KELLY, JIM MacDEVITT, BILL GARTRELL, TOM WALSH, JOE WURZLER, ED NEAHER, JERRY GILLESPIE, and GORDON 
W FORRESTER, to name a few. 
On Sunday, July 30th, anotlu-r Family Picnic was held at llic Blind Brook Polo Club, West­chester, chairmaned by HAL DESNOYERS. Free pony rides for the children, games and prizes, and a I*o(o Match i*-as enjoyed by all. TIjc croud u-as estimated at 110 and included GEORGE FR^V­ZIER. GORDON FORESTER. BILL CUDDY, 
FLO MCCARTHY, TONY DiBARi, BILL MUR­PHY , GENE MAGUIRE, JOE TRACEY, BILL TULLY , JIM MacDEVrrr, BOB FINK, JOHN ROBINSON, JLM 0'SHE.\ and FRED CARIDEO. 
On August 19th, the 3rd annual picnic was held for the boys at St. Marj'^s Orphanage on Long Island, chairmaned ver>' successfully bv ED FITZ­PATRICK. 
RON MEALEY, '54, was recently engaged to Joan Sutton of Ridgewood, New Jersey. 
». BILL MURPHY, '38, recently became a proud 
V grandparent for the first time, August 12th, Kath­leen ^lary Mann. GERRY and Sheila GILLESPIE, '37, were blessed with their lOih child, Rosemar>' Tlicrcse. Gerry is one of our Long Island insurance tycoons, who is making some records of his own. DR. FRANK HARDART, JR., '37, of Forest -Hills,..married Miss Frances O'Connor of Albany on Mav 20th. FATHER MICHAEL .MURPHY, C.S.C., finished his, studies at Columbia and returned to Notre .Dame. Our new Club Chaplain is FR. GERRARD 
•GREEN, Dean of Studies, Dunwoodie, and a Notre Dame master's in chemistr>% 1943. 
.A" Smoker for the freshmen leaving for the Cam­pus and: their fathers u-as held at the New York Athletic' Club on September 12th. It A«'as preceded 
• by the-Board of Governor's Meeting. Tlic smoker (l'\\'as well attended by a crowd of over 200. Movies 
".wcre-sbown-and refreshments were serx'cd. FRED CARIDEO, '35, u-as the chairman for the 
•Annual
 Kick-ofT Meeting held at the N.Y.A.C. on October 5th. DICK LYNCH of the N.Y. Giants 

•and'
 JLM .McMULLEN of the Titans were sched­uled to be present along witli BILL STEIN, President of the New York Touchdown Club. Help­ing Fred with the affair yvas JOHNNY L.\W, '30, recently appointed by Governor Rockefeller as a member of the Correction Commission. Johnny was captain of Rockne's 1929 team that had an undefeated season and were the undisputed World Champions. 


The Notre Dome Challenge Rally was held at the Biltmorc Hotel on October 17tli, with General Chairman JLM SHEILS presiding. Among the many features of this rally was a coast-to-coast telephone conference hook-up with more than 50 
f* simultaneous meetings; a speciallv prepared fdm 
* by FATHER HESBURGH w-as shown in N.Y. and 150 other cities, and talks were given by prom­inent Trustees and friends of N.D. in the New-York Area. 
A Bam Dance w-as held October 27th at the Irish-American Center in Mineola, Long Island. AL LESMEZ and ED FITZPATRICK arc coor­dinating the plans. 
Tlie date has not yet been confirmed for the Fall Tea Dance that will be held in Westchester sometime in No*-cmbcr. 
At this uriting, plans arc being finalized for the football trips to see S>*racusc at Notre Dame and to Pituburgh. 
The Glee Club will hold a concert in New York during the Tlianfcsgiving i-acation. ED FITZ­PATRICK, chairman, promises an enjo>'abIc eve­ning and a large crowd. 
m. TOM RYDER, '54, is keeping busy since his 
m.' appointment as Treasurer of the Catholic Alumni Club, Archdiocese of New York, 
DON and Marilynn BERNIOV, '53, were blessed with a new addition on August 11th, Bradley James. Tliat's four hays for Don. 
MALCOLM DOOLEY, '50, brother of DR. TOM DOOLEY, has settled in the New York Area from Detroit with his wife and the six children. Mal­colm is on the Board of Medico and is employed by Merrill, Lynch, Pierce Fenner. & Smith. He informs us that all Dr. Tom Dooley's honorary degrees, awards, and memorabilia have been given to Notre Dame and will be displayed for all to see in a most proper location. 
—GLESy YATUNI, '52. Sccj-. 

North Florida 
Notes sent in late July but delayed at the Alumn! Office: 
It is with profound sorrow that we announce the passing of L. H. MAINEY, supcrx'isor of build­ing for the City of Jacksonville, who died July 21, survived by his widow Frieda, a son and daughter, and seven grandchildren. Hugh was an active member of the North Florida Notre Dame Club and an enthusiastic supporter of Notre Dame tra­dition. 
The North Florida Notre Dame Club experienced a successful Universal Notre Dame Night with REV. GLENN BOARMAN, C.S.C., as principal speaker. Our year's activities include: business meetings usually held at the Florida Theatre preview room, with adi-ancc shoivings of movies — all arranged through LOU FINSKE; an annual Summer Picnic for all Notre Dame families; the annual Com­munion Sunday; the televised Notre Dame football game; and, of course, Universal Notre Dame Night. TTiis year there is the addition of a Notre Dame Rally, held in the Florida Theatre preWew room with a coffee and dessert meeting. 
—SAMUEL S. LAWLER, JR., Sec>\-Trcas. 

Oregon 
To kick off the fall program of the Club, Presi­dent CHARLIE SLATT.sounded.out the.feasibility of pcriwfc • luncheons. Ke hoped that, out of the large number of men working in the downtown area, or free to come from other areas, there may be enough interested to make such a project worth­while. Certainly some medium is needed to keep alive our spirit, beyond the four or five special events that usually mark our calendar. "Wherever two or three are gathered together in her name. . . ." *^ 
Which is just what Charlie did with REN CUTLIP, '42, of North Bend, on a recent busi­ness trip "southwest." Ren has the real formula for weight building; he is both a beer and an ice cream distributor! He also is on the board of trustees of University of Portland. No wonder 
those good Fathers all look pretty rotund! . . . 
will I be welcome on the campus hereafter! . . . 
Ren reports that JOE MORRISSEY, '28, is man­
ager of the Coos Bay Iron ^Vorks, and that RUS­
SELL KAISER, also of Coos Bay, is in medical 
school. It's good to hear of our friends from that 
part of the state. 
Postmaster ALBERT M. "DUKE" HODLER 
recently was featured in a nc^vs article for im­
provements in local mail-handling. Duke b in for 
quite a headache this ne.\t year when the local 
P.O. moves into its new building, the largest floor . space in Portland as of this date. OTIS JORDAN was telling that his Pacific Concrete Co. has been successful bidder for some projects that would tide them over the winter nicely. One of our operatives tells us that BILL MEAGHER, '48, is the only permanent **guest" of the local division of the Ta.x E.\ecutives Institute. Maybe there's something to be said for being on the outside look­ing in, as far as ta.\es are concerned. 
Welcome to newcomer CONRAD L. (CONNIE) ARNOLD, EE'52, who has been transferred here from Chicago as regional rep for .American-Stand­ard. Anyone needing big-scale boilers and/or air conditioning systems be sure to give Connie a ring (Adv.). 
It's good to Jeain that Mr. LOUIS H. MORAN, father of JUD, '54, and JIM MORAN, '55, is back on his feet after a stay in hospital. Moran Bros. Distributing Co., purveyors of Seaside Oil pro­ducts, will welcome all N.D.-ers as Seaside credit-card holders! The perennial gas price wars Iiave been a tough Initiation for the boys, but "when the going gets tough, the tough get going." 
As w-e go to press, word comes that President CHARLIE SLATT, '33, Is participating In a University of Washington workshop on Performance Budgeting with Charlie covering Work Measure­ment and Reporting Systems. Those of us who work with him know how he can measure it out 
— with the biggest share always his own! And City Foundation Chairman JUDD MORAN briefed his Committee for the general solicitation for the week of October 17. For Oregon, as for the whole alumni, this Is the call to show .our Io\'alty. Come publication, may it be our boast 
that we did better than our previous best by far! —TOM ^LAGEE, '32, Secy-

Peona 
The Notre Dame Club of Peoria, headed by a new staff of club officers and assisted by cx-presi­dent JOHN MANION, scheduled two big c\-ent5 lor the Fall. On September 13, REV. JEROME 
J. WILSON, CS.a , Vice-President in charge of business at the University, spoke in Peoria to In­coming area freshmen and presented students from the area now at the University. The dinner has 
LOS ANGELES—^''Yaz" Day at Wriglcy Field saw Notre Dame Oubs of the Los Angeles area turn out in force to cheer Boston outfielder Carl Yastrzemski during the Red Sox-Angels game August 27. Shown with Carl (who obliged with a double) are: 
(l.-r.) Mort Goodman, L.A. Club president; John Frampton, president of the 
N.D. Club of San Gabriel Valley; and Ed Dowling, vice-pre«deht of the N.D. Club of the San Fernando Valley. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Novembery 1961 21 
been an annual affair. Held at the famous Von-achen*s Junction in Peoria, it provides area alumni an opportunity to \-Isit with students presently at the Univcrsitv. A feature of this meeting ^^•as ­the awarding of the DR. R. C. BEXKEXDORF Memorial Award for Academic Excellence. toj ^^ RICHARD A. WATSON, an X-D. soph frdmV,-^ Trcmont, 111., by DR. PAUL ROx\RK, '37. 5?^^ : Bcnkcndorf^ for whom the award is named,^]Jciicd.•'';:: in 1959. ' ' •'f:H^V 
On October 6. a Fish Fn' Stag ^\-as^iicIdj'^in'­Peoria for the Notre Dame Club. -TTu^-'iras, the, ' first event of its kind in many years-fpry^thp,. club and it proved to be a great succcss.i-.OflJei'^two big items of discussion were the anticipatcd'--succcss of the football team, and also the quKtiplT^f-whetlicr or not BILL WOMBACHER, 'Mjt'LLB, will succumb to slate pressure and run .for^JJ.S. Sena­tor. -''•"> 
JACK POWERS, '53, the ProriaE: city golf champion in 1960, lost this year in the. third round of match play, losing to the eventual Vv-inncr. Tlic following weekend Jack retaincd.!f^hi5 ^club cliam­pionship at the Mt. Marlcy-• 'Gountrj- Club in Peoria. •*-'.'-. 
PAUL COOGiVX, *52, and^roXhcr JIM, '44, arc 

busy buying and selling sovcrriment surplus for 
their own business. .T".-. ' 
Sympathy is extended to-AL;-'18, and ELMER 

GURY, '28, on the dcath^^f;-their mother, Eliza­
beth. »*ir^^ 
FRANK FINNEGiVN, :60;. outstanding baseball 

player for the University fo"r> three seasons, is back , 
in Peoria after a stint inpthc.Amiy; Frank was 
married to Barbara Ann Rcnner in Miami, Florida, 
on September 2. •-' 
-^BpB MiVNNLNG, Secy. 

Philadelphia 
Big news of the fall'-^V-as the unprecedented "round robjn" football trip, by air lo South Bend for the Northwestern gamc,\ftlicncc to Miami, Fla., for a Week at the Carrilloti],Hotel, thence back to 
N.D. for the Navy contest before rctuniing to Philadelphia. BILL WHITESIDE and CHARLIE COXLEV Were among the %*x)rfccrs' for tliis **spcc­tacular" of football trips. 
The first meeting of the season took place at the Philopatrian Club on September 12. Open to all alumni, students, fathers .^ and friends,' this "Back to Scliool X'ile" was also' under the chair­manship of \ace-Prcsident BILL WHITESIDE, who prombed free Notre Dame' .Football Dope Books to all who attended. Tlicj Investment Club, 
X.D. Associates, also met on that; evening. 
Chance books for a trip for'.'two on Nortli­westcm-Miami-Na\y *'round robin'?i excursion were under the chairmanship of CHARLES COXLEY. 
Following the "round robin," a Pittsburgh rail. trip under the chairmanship of JACK HENRY offered train, tickets, t^vo nights at., Pittburgh's Penn-Sharaton, transfers, etc. on the ''.week end 
of Nov. 10. •'"''];:; 
A buffet lundieon and telexision party was ".held ­on September 30 at the Trcadway Inn, St. DaWd's, Pa., for the triumphant N.D.-Oklalioma - game;,: And the October meeting was moved to Oct.' 17 for local participation in the nationwide Notre Dame Challenge Rally. 
Pittsburgh 
The Notre Dame Club of Pituburgh invited future freshmen at Notre Dame to a gct-togctbet in Stouffers Lounge on .August 17. 
Tlie purpose of our meeting was to have the local freshmen meet each otiicr, SA\'ap ideas, and prepare for what will undoubtedly be one of the greatest experiences in life — four years under the Golden Dome. 
Of course, the meeting was informal in evcr>" ivay. Refreshments ^vcrc served, and wc scliedulcd BOB WILLI.-VMS, former quarterback, to say a few ivords about the "Spirit of Notre Dame." ^Ve were favored, too, by the presence of some of the junior and senior students and student oflicers. TIic Program Committee showed a film on the Notre Dame Campus, and some of the high-Hghts of post activities thai have IicJpcd make the present Notre Dame so \'ital to American education. 
In short, tliis meeting u-as simply an jntroductor\­meeting, arranged so that the leaders of the Pitts­burgh Notre Dame Club will meet the new freshmen and thereby dc\'eIop a spirit ol tuiderstandtng and friendship. It was the wish of our committee, too, that as many as possible of the fathers of tlie freshmen be asked to attend the meeting. And PETER FL.\HERTY, president of the Pittsburgh 
Notre Dame AlumntiSy November, 1961 

ARE3.YOy.;REAPING THIS. OVER ISolifEBODY^ELSE'S SHOULDER? 
-"; ^.YoiT needn't, you kno^v, if you were 'ever a student at Notre Danic You .could get your OMTI free subscription by 
writing to the Alumni Office. If you aire a graduate there is rcaSDa to be­lieve that you haven't let us in on your current address, but even if you didn't • get a degree the slightest indication of interest would soon bring you an ap­plication blank. Just ^\Titc to the Aliun­ni Association, Box 555, Notre Dame, Indiana. The Alimini Board ^rill elect you to membership in good standing. 

Club, suggested that nothing be left undone to make our evening a never-to-be-forgotten one, filled throughout triUi the dynamic spirit of Notre Dame. 
— HUGH a BOYLE, JR.; Chairman 

Rochester 
Tlic Family Picnic was held on July 8th at Ellison Park. About 30 families attended. DICK KLEE tvas diairman. It \vas the first we've seen of JERRY SCHOEXHERR, '55, in quite some time. 
A new and vcrj- successful affair was added to this year's club calendar, a Theater Party for summer stock. It was Irish all the way on July 17th at the East Rochester Tlicater presentation of *'Finian's Rainbow" with Barbara Williams. D/VN FERROXE, '59, played in the ensemble. A cast party at the Maplewood Inn followed the play with about 60 "Irish" in attendance. Marj- and JIM PORCARI, '55, arranged tlic evxnt. 
TIic annual Golf Party u-as held on August 14th at Oak Hill Country Club with dinner at the Maplewood Inn immediately following the 18 holes. 
J. ,\nLLIA.M (BILL) REEVES organized the duffer day. 
The Summer Dance ivas sdiedulrd for Friday, Sept. 8th at Happy Acres Country Club. Joan and RALPH KEPXER, '56, were arranging the popular event. 
A Football Weekend u-ill be raffled this fall for the benefit of the dub's Sdiolarship Fund. 
— ED SCHICKLER, '55, Secretary­

ROME—Honorary membership was awarded Most Rev. Vincent McCauIcy, C.S.C., '30, first Bishop of Fort Portal, Uganda, by Eternal City officers Chris Cochrane, '46, (left) and Vincc McAloon, '34, as the Bishop \'isited en route to Africa. 
Romer Italy 
V'^'V-'A-'telcgram ,of .congratulations crossed.Rome to \'^atican^CitV.'ldire'ctcd..,t6',our.. Hohqniry--Member, A.MLETp^ GIOVANNI" CARDIXAL';;;CICOGXANI up3n the "occasion of his. appointment-as Secretary of State.' * _• -•'• •-•••'.:". .TV^.v/' 
Other Honorary* Memberships' awarded recently:"' 
.MOST REV. ALLEN J. BABCOCK, D.D., LL.D.;. '54, Bishop of Grand Rapids and member of the ' Commission for the Lay Apostolatc on the Ecu­
• menical Council; and MOST REV. VIXCENT Mc-CAULEY, C.S.C., D.D., First Bishop of Fort Portal, Uganda. 
''Eternal . Membership" was conferred upon our­home-going' \'ice-Prcsidcnt, CHRIS COCHRAXE, '46, who uill serve as "vice president at large," out of Toledo, Ohio. Special thanks are due to Chris and Mrs. Codiranc, not only for the gen­erous hosting they did for the club but also for the household items they willed to the new club | hospitality center in downtown Rome. 
JOE DE LIA, '47, serves as first \-ice-presidcnt and has just joined the faculty at Xotre Dame International School. To Joe's "eternal" credit, he is in Rome as a medical student along with his valiant wife and four vigorous children. 
On our fringes: JOE McDOXNELL, '29, lias opened his own sculpture studio at Xla dei Bardi 50/8 in Florence. JOE DEVINE, M.A. circa '55, has transferred as principal from the U.S. Air Force Dependent's Sdiool in Turkey to another in England. JOHN KRUEGER, '49, has mo%ed from Darmstadt, Germany, lo the Stars and Stripes service paper in England. Out of England to the States goes LT. JOHN KENNEDY, U.S. Air Force. 
Roman Rcseardicrs depart: JOSEPH MARTEL-LxVRO, *56, here on a Fulbright, left with his wife and three sons after a year of fruitful research I on the economic conditions in tlie South of Italy. PreWously instructor in the economics department at X.D., he will teadi at Indiana U. Extension in South Bend. GORDOX DiREXZO, '56, M.A. *57, leaves for a teadiing post at Portland Uni­versity in the department of sodolog>- after a year of rcscardi — for his doctorate — as a guest of the Italian government, in the 6cld of sodo­political life here. JOHX KROHA, '59, also com­pleted two years teadiing at N.D. Internationa] and returned to the U.S. 
New mcjubcrs: BROTHER PACIFICUS HAL­PIN, C.5.C., retiring prindpal of Notre Dame High School, West Haven, Conn., and BROTHER JOHN DONOGHUE, CS.a . retiring prindpal of Holy Cross High Sdiool, Flushing, N.Y., have joined the faculty at Notre Dame Inlemationoi School. BROTHER ROBERT FONTTAINE, C.S.C., | prindpal of the grade school here for the past six " years, has been appointed as headmaster, succeed­ing BROTHER LOYOLA CHRISTOPH, C.S.C.. who is now on tlie staff of Pius X Institute. Chester, N.Y. From N.D.U.'s Class of '61 comf^ LinS SUMMERS back to his home in Rome %viih a degree in ardiitecture and already lias receivnl his first commission to design a home. Lookini: toward our future members, a memorial Mass WA-offered in St. Peter's Basilica for the recentlv d. ceased mother of FILIPPO VALLI, an X.D.U. Junior in Arts and Letters whose home is in Romi-
Our Guest List: CARL F. LEITTEX, JR., '54. Oak Ridge, Tenn.; TO.M GR.\VES, '35, U.b Embassy-, Bdrut; JOHX F. WEEKS, '56, U.S Marines; BROTHER 1V.\.N DOL.\N, C.S.C., '47. East Pakistan; PAUL J. HESSION, '59, U.S. Na^A JOHX K. KEALY, JR., '61, U.S. Na*-v: and h: brother MIKE, '&i. Piedmont, Cal.; LT. CIL\RLE'-_ 
M. PHILLIPS, '59, U.S. Navy, Res.; L.VRRV f SOLETTI, '62, San Mateo, Cal.; a-\PT. U'M. H RITTER, M6-47, /Vshtabula, Ohio; a\PT . BIL HAWKES, '33, U.S. Navy; WM, R. (RED) DV. G.\Sy '38-39, American Consul General, Da. • Salaan, Tanganvika; EDWARD R. O'CONNO' 
.'54 (Ph.D.), U.S. Embassy, Dublin; JOHX KILLILEiX, JR., '62, Reading, Mass.; JOSEPH . RHOMBERG, '22, Dubuque, Io%%-a; JOHN .*' PURTELL» '63, Oak Park. III.: JULIUS .\. JOD BAUER, '59, Elkton, Md.; HARRIET E. HEC '26-27 (summer); THOMAS J. BARRY, '25, .M gan Hill, Cal.; REV. JAMES BL.\N-TZ, CS-i . '55; EDWARD McVNANEY, '61, Yonkcrs, N ' RICHARD J. O'CONNOR, '49, Mattoon, I 
. WM. J. (CURLY) ASH, '24, Indianapolis, Ir JOSEPH F. TIMLIN, '29, N^'C; JAMES JOHN, '48 A.B., '50 ^LA., *51 M.M.S., '59 D-\f Institute of Advanced Studv, Princeton, N.J.; 1' PAUL ROARK, '37, and son MICHAEL, • ( Peoria, UK; REV. PHILIP THONI, post-r i. '50, Murphrcesboro, Tenn.; DR. ROBERT I. 
DETROIT—-Delayed pictures of (he Afotor City's.gala Notre Danic Night show (on Jeft) Man of the Year, Malcolm Knaus accepting his award from retiring President Lou Conroy-'(at'mike).as Fred ZoUncr (foreground) and Thomas Moore look on, and (on right) Detroit Police Commissioner Bert Hart, principal'spciker (center), behind three tables of guests. 
JACKSON, '30, faculty, U. of Missouri; REV. GEORGE C. BERNARD, C.S.C., X.D.; MIKE CORCORrVN, '61, Sibly, Iowa; REV. KEITH HOSEV, summer '52-33, Elwood, Ind.; JUDITH 
A. MOORE, summer '60, Buchanan, Mich.; MARY ALICE WASSMER, '62, Sea Girt, N.J.; BROTHER IVO REG,\N, C.S.C., headmaster, Gilmour Academy, Gates Mills, Ohio; %\-ith BROTHER HOWARD TOEPPE, C.S.C.; ROB­
^ ERT KROHA, '61, Detroit, .Mich.; TERRY HUT­
•
 TON, '61, Grosse Pointe, Mich.; REV. R. J. SULLIVAN, S.S., '50; E.M.METT McaVRTHY, '60, Chicago, III.; HARRY .McDONALD, '43, La-Grange, III.; DR. ALEX JARDINE, Supt. Schools, South Bend; JAMES MAGUIRE, '44, Farming-dale, N.Y.; JOSEPH W. BETTE, '61, So. Britain, Conn.; PETE .MARDIN, '62, Xeiv Bethlehem, Pa.; JERE.MY J. KAYE, '61, Rhinclander, Wis.t ED­WARD KO.MPARE, '61, Chicago, 111.; DR. LEO 

V.
 TURGEON, '42, Los Angeles, Cal.; BRLVN BUTLER, '64, and KEVIN, '61, South Bend; JOHN DE.MERGASSO, '61, Modesto, Cal.; PAUL CLULO, '61, .Midland, Mkh.; REV. GEORGE .MEHOK, '31, Fargo, X.D.; HENRY CL/WCCY, '54, N.Y.C.; R,\YMOND LESCHER, '57, Elm­liutst. 111.; DAVID A\'ERS, '58. Toronto, Can­ada: PROF. JOSEPH ^L DUFFY, JR., facultj-, English department, N.D.; JOHN ZjVUGG, '61, 


k San Francisco, Cal.; ROBERT F. AR.MSTRONG, '35, N.Y.; JOHN L. CALLAN, cliairman of hoard, 
N.D. Club of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
Twenty other N.D. men's names appear in our register, uTittcn in by relatives and friends visit­ing the Club. 
Thirty St. >rar>-'s alumnae and students arrived wa\-ing guest cards cspcciallv printed by our well beloved SISTER -MADELEVA, CAC . Their names unll appear in the St. ^^a^y's Alumnae magazine, Holy Cross Courier. 
Dozens of other colleges and unix'ersities are abo marked on our guest book after- the names of visitors accompanying N.D.-S.M.C. callers. 
We will appreciate it if all who read this will spread the word — for the benc6t of all comets 
— that wc maintain a downtown Notre Dame hos­
pitality center where all your families and friends 
. are welcome and assisted with information and a 
W comfortable lounge to rest your wear>* pilgrim 
feet. —VINCE McVLOON, '34, Sccj-. 
St. Joseph Valley 
On September 13 the Valley Club oflicers • and board of directors played host to South Bend area freshmen w*ith a luncheon, to whicit the Club's sdiolarship students were in\*ited as guests of honor. Invited were new scholars TIMOTHY N. THIL­
. MAN-and JOHN. A. MEULE.\L\N,.as. well, as in­cumbents JOHN L. HORVATH, JR., JERRY F. KU.MINECZ, LOUIS J. .\t\RIBELA, and CON­RAD MASLOWSKI. Honorary President JAMES 
E. ARMSTRONG was present with the ofHcers to represent the Alumni Association. Before, on August 10, the Club Iiad held its . annual dinner for the oflicers and director? and ­
9 their mves in the Trustees Room of the Morris Inn. 
A new regular event' was intVodticed in the Club-sponsored Post-Game Cocktail '^Parties after every home game in the airMronditidned^ballroom of the Knights of Columbus Clubhouse, in*.^South Bend. Admission of a dollar guaram^ctl' quick service, moderate prices, and food as .•^qtjired. The success of the first few parties is a tc^tiiiionial ID the 1961-62 officers of the Notre Damc^Club of the St. Joseph Valley: BOB CVHILL, 'S,-v.presi­dcnt; GERRY HA.M.\1ES, '44, vice-president1,iJ0E DILLON, '44, treasurer; and TOM HANLO.V, '49, secretary. ^c^.. 
St. Louis 
On September tl, at Ray Quinlin's Party House, llic Notre Dame Club of St. Louis Iicid its annual Freshman Smoker send-off for the Class of'1965. All members of the Class of I9&4 (sophomores), alumni and campus club ofHcers, all alumni -direc­tors and post presidents were asked to attend to ivelcomc new students and ihcir fathers. •. The evening's business consisted of brief ~ orientation talks followed by a question and answer period. Refreshments were serx'ed before, during and after the meeting, and a buffet was ser\'cd to wind- up the evening. JOE OUTER and BOB CHICKEY handled arrangements. 
Tliis year St. Louis alumni are taking in the Syracuse game. November 18, for their annual Notre Dante Club Football Trip« Total cost of the trip is only $50 per person. jUumnl and friends who were aboard last year requested " the same type of trip again this year because of the terrific time had by alt. For this reason wc feel the trip this year will be bigger and better than ever. 
Tlie cost of $50 per person covers round-trip train fare, hotel room for two nights, in Chicago, chartered buses from the hotel direct to Notre Dome and return, ticket to the game and all dnnks and snacks on the train to and from Chi­cago. If you have your own ticket to the game, deduct $5 from the cost. 
Those who can't make the trip thetnscIvL-s might make an opportunity available for a friend. All proceeds from the trip arc used to help finance our scholarship fund at Notre. Dame, now being used to pay the tuition of two students. 
TOM AfcGUIRE is chairman of the trip com­mittee, assisted by DOy R^\TCHFORD and BOB CHICKEY. 
A reception at the University Club joined the .nation-wide Challenge Day telephone hookup under 
the chairmanship of AL VITT. DR. BERT 
COUGHLIN is Foundation chairman. 
San Anfonto 
. A Club meeting on September II was a free stag open to alumni and students, present and prospec­tive, featuring tamales and liquid refreshments. \fARK E. ^VATSON, JR., was host for the affair. ; . R. EMMETT CATER was cliairman of the C-Day dinner rally October 17 at the San Antonio Country Club, while HAROLD TYNAN is in 
charge of the general appeal in the area. 
San Gabriel Valley 
Our Ciub*s Board of Directors met July H for election of new officers. AL TORRIBIO w^ re­elected vice-president. PAUL KISZELI was re­elected secretary, and yours truly succeeds BEN SALVATY as president. Ben is certainly to be congratulated on the fine job he did as our first president, and on all the '\%'ork he did to secure official recognition for our Club. DON BR.ADY and JACK DONNELLY arc new appointees to the Board. 
PAUL ROONEY served as chairman of the x\ugwst 19 Barbecue and S^vim party at the home of SID SIDENFADEN in Arcadia. For a modest tariff the committee (Pat Rooncy, Ronalee Mona­lian, and Suzanne Frampton) provided all refresh­ments and fuungs except the meat to be barbe­cued. LLOYD AUBREY inaugurated a telephone committee to be used for all events. 
BOB SINGER is chaijman of the local husband­and-«'ifc retreat, locatioa to be announced; and a men's retreat u-as held by the Los Angeles group September 8-10 at Manresa in' Azusa. .A Notre Dame Communion Breakfast on December 10 com­pletes the I96I religious schedule. 
General events have included the N.D^-S.C. game smoker on October 14 and the Challenge Rally reception on October 17 in Los Angeles. 
A geographical roster of the San Gabriel group wxLS prepared as a preparation for a directory questionnaire. 
—JOHN FRAMPTON, Pres. 

South Central Wisconsin 
On Saturday, August 5, 1961, the club held its annual summer outing at the Dodge Point Coun­try* Club in Dodgcrille. Only a few arrived early enough to enjoy a round of golf, but as time for dinner drew, near, the club members, their wives, and friends of Notre Dame came from a sL-cty mile radius to enjoy a roast beef dinner, serx'ed family style. 
Tlic master of ceremonies was JOHN \V. ROACH, '27. Guest speaker for the ocoision was FATHER PATRICK DOL/VN, C.S.C., pastor of St. Bernard's Catholic Church, Watertown. Also for the occasion, a member of the Notre Dame Glee Club. NICK FROST, *62, son of TOM FROST, *30, ^Vate^town, entertained the guesu with song and skit. 
A past president of the club, LARRY LENZ, and his wife made the trip from Freeport, Illinois to participate in the festivities. 
The following members helped to make this an enjo>-ablc outing: BERNARD MIXTACKI, '50, Madison; AfAURICE LEAHY, '39, Madison; KEN NIGLES, Madison; PAUL B. BRAN.\L%N, 'J*, Madison; WALTER TERRY, Baraboo; LEN DORSCHEL, '25. Madison; \VILLU.M P. GOR­GEN, Mineral Point; and DR. HAROLD CAREY, Lancaster. 
The next functions for the club will be Universal Notre Dame Communion Sunday in early Decern-
Notre Dame Alumnus, Nouember, 1961 23 
bcr and a Holiday Party, December 22nd. Watcli for furllicr details. Note to Notre Dame men who liavc recently moved into llic area: 
Please inform the secrelar\- of your presence and enjoy the functions of this club with your fellow alumni. 
—THOMAS M. HIXKES» '51, Secy. 

Spokane 
The annual Summer Outing of the Xotrc Danic Club of Spokane took place Sunday afternoon, July 23rd. TIic setting u ^ the delightful summer lioine of FRANK HERRON, '35. on Liberty Lake. The following members and their families enjoyed the perennial hospitality of Frank and his lovely wife, Edna: ED BETHKE; '28; FRANK HERRON, '35: RAY PENLAXD. '56; DR. JIM ROTCH­FORD, M8; BOB ROTGHFORD, M9; DICK ST. JOHN, '5G: R.\LPH SCHULLER. *57: BERNIE SMYTH, '55: and JOE WALSH, 'U. Special guests of the Club were ST£\^ DUBOIS and JIM LYNCH, JR., wlio will matriculate at the University in Soplrmber. 
The third .Annual Retreat for Club members was held on the week-end of September 15th at Im­maculate Heart Rctri-at House. The attendance was llie largest to date as eacli of the members who attended last year's Retreat brought another mem­ber this vear in .iaccordancc with bis promise at the coiicIii>ion of that Retreat. FRANK J. ItVGEN-BARTH, '27, Vva.s chairman of the committee on arrangements. 
.•\ Football T\'^ Party was enjoyed by most of the Club members; on September 30tli. Tlicy galhcrrd in the Tap Rotnn of the Old Bohemian Brewcrj' to view the Oklahoma game while partaking of hot dogs and Old .Bo brew. R^VLPH SCHULLER, '57, was in charge of arrangements for the cnjoj-able affair. 
BERNIE SNnTH, '55, Club President, attended the Leadership. Meeting of Foundation City Chair­men at the Universilv on August 27lh. Together with City Chaitman ROBERT L. ROTCHFORD, M9, Jic worked on plans tor the "Challenge'* Rally held October 17th at tlie Plantation. Bob is also organizing an over-the-top Foundation drive in the area. 
—JOE WALSH, Scc>-.-Trcas. 

Terre Haute 
On .^ug. 29 an informal farewell partv was given for JOHN F. P. .MURPHY and FATHER AN­THONY WEBER, C.S.C., diaplaln. JOHN MUR­PHY', who had been the personnel manager at the Charles Pfizer plant, Tcrrc Haute, Indiana, was transferred to the Brooklyn. N.Y., office. FATHER WEBER, ifJto bad been the chaplain at the Gil­bault School for Boys, Tcrrc Haute, Indiana, is returning to missionary work in Uganda, East Africa. Tlic occasion was under the leadership of JAMES SULLIV/VN. Those in attendance were RAYMOND KEARNS. BERNIE BURDICK, JOHN BOYER, ROBERT KIN^TZ, J.\MES SUL­LIVAN, PAUL MARIETTA, JAMES BOYER, DRUIE aWENDER, FRED CHRIST.MAN, JOHN MURPHY, and FATHER WEBER. 
PETE VARD.\, who had been tlic football coach and instructor at Schulte High School, Terre Haute, Indiana, is now the football coach at Brazil High Scliool, Brazil, Indiana. 
The Fall and U'intcr schedule for the club is incomplete at this writing except for the N.D. Rally reception at the Terre Haute House arranged by RICHARD W. KELLY. 
—FRED G. CHRISTMAN, '43, Secx*. 

Tri-Cities 
Tlic Annual Communion Breakfast was held on April I4lli at the BlacLhauk Hotel in Davenport, Iowa, and u"as preceded by Mass in the iicrc\­Hospital Chapel. JAMES DOCKERY ot Daven­port, Iowa, u-as the main speaker, and liis speech tied in vcr>- well with the message from FATHER HESBURGH. 
Club officers were elected, and the>' are as fol­lows: President, JERRY CULLIGAX; Vice Prcs., WALTER DRAY; Secv.-Treas., JIM CORYN; Xc>v Board Members, DAN KEELER and GENE GERWE; Holdover Directors, BILL LAFFAN, AD­WAN CUMMINGS, and BERNIE DWYER. 
JOHN NOLAN was Chairman of a ver>* suc­cessful family picnic held July 8th at the Rock Island County Indian Bluflf Forest Preserve. About 
24- Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
150 club members and their families were In at­tendance. 
August 25tli was set as the date for the Annual Fish Fr\' and Stag, and Ike's Grove in Daven­port was the place. PETE LOUSBERG was in cliai^ge, and he saw that refreshments, food, prizes and games were better than ever. 
City Chairman ED .ME.VGHER, R/VLPH CORYN 

and JI.M DOYLE, chairmen of Rock Island. Molinc 
and Davenport respectively, headed up the Founda­
tion Drive in the Tri-City area, and arranged our 
Club's Rally and Meeting at the Blackhawk Hotel 
in Davenport. Iowa, on the evening of October 
17th. 
—JAMES J. CORYN, Secv-.-Treas. 

Tucson 
The famous Tucson climate has given ne%v h'fc 

and purpose to the Notre Dame Club of Tucson. 
It opened its '6I-'62 season with a members-only cocktail and dinner meeting at the famous Pioneer (Tucson's vwst distinguished hotel and, incldentallv, managed bv well-known ahminus JLM DURBIN). 
In additoin to gtKid fiMnl and good drink, the initial meeting bntught forth the following new slate of officers: PAUL MATZ, president; .MIKE BROWTC, vice-president: JAMES DURBIN, secre­tar>-; and CHARLES KENNEDY, treasurer. 
Tlic general assembly w-as brought somewhat up-to-date about the University's progress by the appearance of four '61 grads now attending Gradu­ate School at the Uiiiversitv of Arizona. Thcv are MIKE YOUNG, DAN DIETZ, TIM FLEMING and BILL BOETTINGER. (Each of whom are both awed and pleased by the U. of .A. co-cdsl) Tliey Were vcr>- gracious in telling us about foot­ball prospects, new campus construction, and the fact that the old **Phy Ed" degree is no more. 
Tentative plans were discussed for future acti\i­ties (details of which will be brought to the ALUMNUS' audience at a later date). It was decided to meet cverv* other month, except when a special event calls for a special meeting—like the C-Day Rally dinner whlcli JIM DURBIN arranged at the Pioneer on Oct. 17. 
Between 40 and 50 members gave a round of applause to out-going president BOB O'CALLAG­H.AN. 
Regards from Tucson where the sun is out­shone by N.D.'ers! —I. L. (BUDDY) GOLDMAN. 
':^^ 

Utah 
Wc are pleased to announce that the Utah Alumni Club joined together in a gala picnic at one of the picluresfiHc canyons located nearby Salt Lake City. Several alumni enjoyed the food and re­freshments with their wives and children. 
Foundation Governor PHIL PURCELL, JR., and the club officers have been formulating plans for the Foundation's general appeal this fall. 
—LEONARD Di GIACOMO, Sec>-. 

Washingtorir D. C. 
Summer In Washington meant another Garden Cocktail Party on July 30 at the Clie\y Chase home of Notre Dame's answer to Maxwell. Mcsta & Cafritz, hospitable President BOB HUTCHI­SON. Wives, dates, and friends were welcome at the affair, a (bi)carbon(ate) copy of the successful 19G0 event. m 
Tlie next event was one of the best family pic­nics in many a day, even it was rained out on August 26 and had to be postponed to September 
9. Ever\' announced feature was repeated . . . free pony rides for the children, beer, soft drinks and hot dogs for all the family, kiddy games with many, nianv prizes and a irood softball game, all at St. John's High School,'^.V.W. 
Sept. 9 was a busy day, with the Club playing host at a Communion Breakfast at Holy Cross College for freshmen entering the University. Tlie freshmen and fathers were guests for Mass and Breakfast, followed by the color film *'NoIre Dame" to acquaint the boys and their fathers with life on campus. President Hutchison also outlined the Club's functions particularly as they related to the students. Officers and Board Members were pres­ent, and all members were welcome. 
TIM SHE^V was in charge of a football party W on September 30 at the K. of C. Clubhouse in Arlington, Va., with beer, pretzels and a battcr>­of television sets for the Oklahoma triumph. It was the first event held in \^rginia In recent years. 
JOHN E, WOOD was chairman of a meeting held Oct. 17 at the Shcraton-Carlton, plugged into the nationwide Challencc Rally telephone hookup. WILLI.\M D. KAVANAUGH is chair­man of the general Foundation appeal, 
Tlic IVashington Clubbers arc running an econ­omy bus trip to Pittsburgh on Nov. 11 for the N.D.-Pitt game. AL VIROSTEK Is chairman. 
NOVICES AND SEMINARIANS from recent Notre Dame aasses, gathered in August at Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn,, are (l.-r.) Charles R. Nowery, Shreveport, La.; Joseph F. DcVIiegher, Mishawaka, Ind.; Robert A. Ghclardi, Jr., Bloomsburg, Pa.; Jerry Florent, Michigan City, Ind.; Richard C. Daggett, Cheboygan, Mich.; George E. O'Connell, Holyoke, Mass.; and Robert Schoencman, Hawarden, la. Florent and Schoeneman have pronounced first vows and returned to Moreau Seminary, while the others will spend a year at the Novitiate. 
\An inteliectual service of the University, of Noire Dame / for the constant^ enrichment of the minds 
tke sibliine of Notre Dame's diverse,family' 
THE 

FOR LIFE 
By Frederick D. Rossini 

I 
WISH TO INDICATE to you in a general way from-my standpoint the importcmce of the current fund campaign for the future of our University. 
This paper was delivered at the Leadership Confer­ence on the campus August 27-28. 
Dr. Rossini is Dean of tke College of Science at the University of Notre Dame. He is also the Graduate SchooPs Associate Dean and Cliairman of the newly created University Research CounciL 
In addition to these .academic and administrative posts, Dr. Rossini has been elected head of two na­tional organizations of scientists. Be is president­elect of Sigma Xi, the professioruil fraternity for the encouragement of scientific research, and will become president of _ that organization for a two-year term beginning in 196S. He is also president of the Albertiis Magnus Guild, an organization of Catholic scientists. 
Dr. Rossini became head of Notre Dame's science school in 1960..after a ten-year association with the Carnegie-Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa., where he was Silliman Professor and head of the department of chemistry as well as director of the. Chemical and Petroleum Research Laboratory. 
"• For twenty-two years, from 1928 to 1950, Dr. Rossini was a scientist at the National Bureau of Standards, Washington, D. C., advancing from re­search chemist to chief of the section on thermo­chemistry and hydrocarbons. 
Notre Dame's science dean is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the atithor or co­author of eight books and approximately two hundred , scientific papers. He has received numerous profes­
•-sionat honors and holds honorary doctorates from Carnegie Tech, Duquesne University, Notre Dame, and . Loyola University of Chicago. In 193i Prof. -Rossini ' received the Hillebrand Award of the Chemical Society of; Washington, D. C, for his work on the ihermo­ekemistry of hydrocarbons. He received the V. S. De­partment of Commerce Gold Medal Exceptional Service Award in 1950, the Pittsburgh Junior Chamber ojf Commerce Award' for Chemistry for 1957, and the annual Pittsburgh Award of the American Chemical 
-A uiiiversity. has' responsibility for" knowledge in the world, its custody, extension, commtmication, and preservation, .and. for the development of-persons 
Society section there in 1959. 
Dr. Rossini lias exercised leadership in scientific affairs in this counl/ry and abroad for many years. He served as Chairman-of the National Research Council's Division of Chemistry and Chemical Tech­nology from 1955 to 1958, He has regularly attended' tke co7iferences of tke "^International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry and was appointed by the State-Department as head of the American delegation to the Conference at Zurich in 1955.. 
He is a member of the Policy Advisory Board of the Argonne National Laboratory, Argonne, III., and he also serves on the^ Scientific Advisory Council for the Rock -Island Arsenal of the ~U. S. Army Ordinance Corps. He has also been a member of the National Science Foundation's Advisory Panel for Chemistry and its Divisional Committee^ for the Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences. 
A native of Monongahela, Pa., Prqf. Rossini re­ceived an undergradtiate degree in chemical engineer­ing and a master of science degree from Carnegie Tech in 1925 and 1926 respectively. He was a%varded ' a doctorate in chemistry, by the University of Cali­fornia in 1928. He~delivered the anntial P. C. Reilly Lectures in Chemistry at Notre Dame in 1949 and has also lectured at Western Reserve University, Howard University, the Catholic University of Ameri­ca and at many professional society meetings. 
Dr. Rossini's professional affiliatioiis include the American Chemical Society, the American Institute of Chemists, the American Physical Society, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the Faraday Society, American Petroleum Institute, AmericarTSociety for Engineering Education, American Society for Testing Materials, American Association for the Advancement of Science, Philosophical Society of Washington, Catho­lic Commission on Intellectual and Cultural Affairs, tlie Catholic ^Association for Iritematioruil. Peace and several fraternities. 
Knowledge is proud that he has leam'd so much; / Wisdom is humble that he knows no more. (Cowper) 
^ capable of holding this knowledge, of understanding 
• it, of interpreting it for the benefit of mankind, and of extending its frontiers through original research. The university must collect all existing knowledge in the several disciplines of its structure; it must digest this knowledge and transmit it to the coming genera­tion through appropriate channels of instruction; it must add to the body of knowledge through research in original investigations; and it must preserve all such knowledge for future generations through li­brary and related facilities. A university exists for the promotion of free inquiry and the advancement of learning. 
Action of Elements 

A imiversity consists of people—its faculty, its administration, its graduate students, its undergradu­ate students, its alumni, and its friends. What a uni­versity becomes arises from the fusion of the efforts and aims of all these people. Our University can be­
' come as great a factor in the life of our country as these people make it. There are no bounds. We are limited only by our imagination, our creative ability, and our resources. 
fr Academic Catalysis 
We must encourage cooperation and cross-ferti­lization among all the diftefent disciplines of knowl­edge in the University. Some of the most significant advances in modem Imowledge have come from areas where two neighboring disciplines come together and a lai ^ channel of knowledge between them is sud­denly opened up. Special methods of investigation developed in the one field are found to be most useful in the other, with the result that answers are obtained to many problems that would otherwise' remain un­solved. 
Role of the Computer 
One of the most effective of our operations for bringing together investigators juid teachers from different fields is the high-speed computer. These fabulous, albeit. expensive, machines can do in one hour or less what formerly required niany man-years of work. Further, we can with these computers solve problems which were formerly absolutely impossible. The high-speed computer can be used with great effectiveness in the sciences of biology, chemistry. 
Tools for the Job 

To do the best job, oiu: University must have the best faculty, the best graduate students, the best undergraduate students, and adequate support and facilities for the tasks to be performed. 
In the old days, a university could operate in a 
simple way, with little paraphernalia and equipment —as with a professor and his student seated on the two ends of a log. But the extent and complexity of man's knowledge have increased almost beyond im­agination. Children in grade school are now learning what we learned in high schooL Children in high school are now learning what we learned in college. Students in college are now learning material former­ly given in graduate school. And students in graduate school now learn things which are new to our pro­fessors. 
Streamlining Needed ­
To meet the challenge of this burgeoning task, we must eliminate all duplication and superficialties in our courses of instruction, and, most importantly, we must develop more effective and concentrated ways of teaching and methods of learning. To solve the new problems bom of the increasing complexity, we must develop new and powerful methods and techniques and apparatus and equipment To carry on the mathematics associated with these develop­ments we must use high-speed computers in many areas of learning. 
'SCIENCE FOR LIFE'— RELATED READING 
-.1 

y 1. On Modem Technology and Peace. 1953 Christmas Message of Pope Pius XIL AVEUI-able from National Catholic Welfare Con­ference, 1312 Massachusetts Avenue, N.W., Washmgton 5, D.C. 
2. The Price of Excellence ^-A Report to De­cision-makers in American Higher Education. 
, A statement of the Problems and Policies Committee of the American Council on Edu­
, cation, dated October 1, 1960. Available from American Council on Education, 1785 Massa­chusetts Avenue, N.W., Washington 6, D.C. 
3. Grodto/or .Americans, The American Assembly. Publi^ed by Prentice-Hall, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1960. 
• 4. Scientific Progress^ tlie Universities, and the Federd Government. A statement biy the President's Science Advisory Committee, from the White House, dated November 15, 1960. Available from ;the U.S. Govenihient Print­ing Office, Washington 25, D.C. (Price 15 cents) . 
, 5. Investing in Scientific Progress, 1961-1970. Concepts, Goals, and Projections. National Science Foundation, 1961. Available from the 
. National Sciaice Foundation,-Washington 25, D.C. 
Que sais-je? (What do J know?)—^Motto on the leal of Montaigne 
geology, mathematics, and physics, in all branches of engineering, in business administration, in popula­tion studies, in the handling, storage, and retrieval I of information, etc. We are looking forwcird to liav­' ing on our campus within the next year or two one 
of the top computers available in the" world. 
Imperatives of Excellence 
^ Our University is dedicated to the pursuit of ex­
cellence in- all of its work — in the dassroorhs, in the 
halls, in the activities on the campus, and on the ath­
letic fields; We have the job of producing weU-traihed 
and humanely educated graduates who will help pro­
vide the moral and intellectual leadership needed in 
our country and the world. 

, We must make serious effort and exercise constant 
scrutiny along three lines: 

1.
 To provide topflight instruction to oiu: under­graduate and graduate students to prepare them as well-balanced persons of good moral fibre, with a disciplined intelligence, ready to participate fruitfully in the affairs of human society. 

2.
 To conduct research in all fields of learning, including science, engineering, business administra­tion, arts and letters, and theology, and to conduct this research with vitality and dedication to the dis­covery and service of truth. 

3.
 To interpret our knowledge, and the meanings and implications of our findings, for the benefit of the people of our country and the world. 


Emphasis on Fundamentals 
In our instruction of imdergraduate students, we • miKt place strong emphasis on basic fundamentals in all branches of knowledge, for two important rea­sons: (1) the quantity of factual knowledge has be­come so tremendous that a person would be drowned with the mere thought of trying to hold it all; (2) competency in the knowledge and application of the fundamental principles is what leads to new dis­coveries and inventions of things not learned about in books and never before known to the world. 
Our undergraduate education must be a coor­dinated progTEim involving the broad basic subjects, certain selected advanced subjects, and courses in humanistic and social studies and theology. The in­struction in aU these areas must be arranged in such a way as to inculcate in each student a real desire to continue lesiming after graduation tlux)ughout his entire lifetime. 
Product: A Scholar 
In tliis educational -process, the student should acquire a thorough, integrated, and broad understand­ing of the fundamental knowledge in his field. He 
From The Price of Excellence: 
"The price of excellence in eyeiy aspect of higher education is hi ^ and inevitably li^ng. But it is, and will be, less Hian the cost to the American people of settling for the wasteful ineffectiveness of educational mediocrity." 
should acquire a real competence in orderly analytical 
thinkihg, to reach sound, creative conclusions. He 
should acquire the capacity to communicate ideas to 
others, both orally and in writing, to provide fuQ. and 
adequate expression of his professional and personal-
powers. He should acquire the ability to leam for 
himself as a scholar, to keep abreast of the changing 
knowledge and problems of his profession. He should 
acquire a phUosophical outlook, and a proper, and 
godly sense of values. >; 
The Scientific Age 
Our world has entered upon a new ag^ the scien­tific age. In this scientific age,\man finds himself in a new relation to the atom, to the cell; and to the imiverse. Tremendous advances have been made in aU areas of science, in nuclear and atomic energy, > in medicine and health, and in the science of outer space. Notwithstanding the magnitude of these scien­tific advances, many scientists feel that the surface has just been scratched—that we are on the verge of a tremendous adventure into scientific territory now known only to Almighty Goi To proceed on this adventure rightly, man needs to leam how to manage the affairs of human society wisely and un­selfishly— to see that the fruits of omr sdentiflc / work are distributed equitably in a way that will help aU the peoples of the world. To do this,.-sdentists' must work hand in hand with scholars of 6ther,fields. 
The basic purpose of science is to leam about and understand everytliing, that God has made, including man, all living animals and plants, and all the physi­cal world comprehended by us, here on' earth and far out into space. 
Diffusion of Knowledge 
In the old days, relatively fewpeople in the world knew science and scientists. Today, science touches everyone in their daily living. Many jieople'who have . never studied science in school now know many things about science that our foremost scientists did not know a century ago. From our magazines and news­papers, and radio and television, we leam about chemical elements and compounds, about vitamins and hormones, about atoms, ^electrons, protons, and neu-' trons, about uranium and plutoniiun, 'about atomic 
.\ 

Knotoledge and timber shouldn't be much used till they are seasoned. (Oliver Wendell Holmes) 
From Investing in Scientific Progress: 
"All peoples have innate capacity for intel­lectual pursuits, including science." 
"Public understanding of science adds to the breadth and quaUty of the nation's scientific endeavor." 
"Every person should understand what science really is about and what it can do." 
"From the time of Franklin and Jefferson, the people of the United States have had faith in both the intellectual and the material benefits that science can bring. We have continually ejqianded our scientific knowledge of the uni­verse, of living things, and of social organiza­tion. Our past investment in science has brought us double reward: a highly developed tech­nology which has helped to keep us free, and a countinuing enlargement of our imderstand­ing which has helped to enrich our freedom. To­day, far more than in the past, sdentiflc pro­gress determines the character of tomorrow's civilization." 
fission and atomic fusion, about the universe, gal­axies, and new stars, and about missiles, satellites, and interplanetary travel. All this is knowledge that was possessed by no human person not too many years ago. 
Accelerated Progress 
Since the year 1789, when George Washington was inaugurated as our first President, just 53 years before this University was founded, the following changes have occurred: the population of the United States has increased 43 times; the speed of human trans­portation has increased over 50 times; the power of our explosives has been multiplied several million times; the speed of communication has increased over 10 million times. 
scientific considerations. Every citizen-of our world today mist develop some understanding of science to guide and protect those who are dependent on him. 
-^ . Wealth of the Spirit 
We must remember that the true and great wealth of our nation is not our material goods but our human minds. We must not confuse the material marvels of our mechanical age with the things of the mind and the spirit of our civilization. -The veist mechanical advances of our country are good only in so far as they give us more time to develop our mental and spiritual qualities. The people of our country have produced material assets which have brought a standard of living and a degree of comfort never before adiieved by so many in one land. With these material gains, our country hcts attained a posi­tion of leadership in the world not hitherto accom­pli^ed by peaceful meaiis. Here then we have a responsibility to build up the mental and spiritual qualities of our country, not only for the preserva­tion of our own nation, but also that we may help other coimtiies faced with the threat or fact of com­munism. We must with all our might guard against a lowering of vitality in our social institutions and a loss of spiritual values, which would result in moral bankruptcy and national ruin. In particular, we must dedicate ourselves to fostering high mental and spir­itual values in the young people of our country. 
Our Opportunity
/ 

, Among all the imiversities of the United States, the University of Notre Dame is in an extraordin­arily unique and powerful position to carry on this mission of a great university—to be, as Father Hes-burgh has said, both a bridge and a beacon. 
Given^ the needed resources, the University of Notre Dame can be a big leader in producing the men who will be guiding the destinies of our country and the world in the decades to come. 
Benefits of Technology 
Science has brought to man a great imderstanding of Nature. Engineering and technology have fesh­ioned the findings of science into devices that have created for many people in .the world a great material welfare, increased comfort, and better health, ,with improved forms of food, transportation, and com­munication. Science is becoming intimatdy and iri:e­trievably connected with the social and' political structure of our society, so that few national deci-­sions of government can be made without sound 
No pleasure is comparable to the standing upon the vantage ground of^ truth. (Francis Bacon) 
ALUMNI CLASSES 
Engagements 

Miss Margarita Verduzco and JOSE L. GOX­X:\LEZ, '50. Miss Marguerite Anne Timlin and HENRY M. SHINE, JR., '31. -Miss Joan Sutton and RO.VALD P. .\fE.\LEV, '34. Miss Jane Ilngnrnard and JA.MES E. M.\CK, '3G. Miss Mar^• Joyce Ward and LT. RICHARD C. • NINNEM.VN, '58. Miss Barbara Laurie and JOSEPH T. GHEG.\N, '39. Miss Eli/abetli Walsli and D.VNIEL R. O'CON­NOR, JR., '39. Miss Janet Ilaslcv and PAUL F. LOMBARD!, '60. Miss Sharon Rose Starkweatlier and DONALD J. BADER, '61. 
Marriages 

Miss Norvella Fair Green and WILLIAM N. FARABAUGH, '31, South liend, Ind.. August 22. -Miss Susan Lee Smith and JOH.V S. REV.\­
OLDS, '34. Bath, N.Y., Augiuit 19. Miss .Marilyn .Ann .Muri>hy and THO.M.\S J. JEFFERS, '56. Indianapolis. Ind., July 8. 
^ .Miss .Mars- Kay Seitz and EDWARD J. REILLY, 
W '5(i. Jackson, Mich., August 19. .Miss Ann Haven McDonnell and THOM.AS J. SHEEHAN, '5fi, I'ruiideiici-. R.I., June 24. Miss Barbara Sims and JOSEPH W. ANDREWS, '57. Notre Dame, Ind., July* I. Miss Karen Ann Zeigler and RICHARD B. FOX, '37. Salem. Ohio, June 17. Miss Marlene Ann Grumenherg and FR.ANCIS 
» 
N. GRASBERBER, JR., '37, Cincinnati, Ohio, .August 12. .Miss Barbara Jean Casev and CHARLES J. Afc-CRUDDEN, JR., '57, Pittsburgh. Pa., .August 26. .Miss Constance Ann Rutter and DR. JA.MES A. WALSH, '37, Lake Mohawk, N.J.. .August 26. .Miss Eileen Julia RaidI and EDWARD J. GOR­DON, '38. Chicago. III., July 15. Miss Kathleen Rita Jahnz and GERj\LD F. SALETTA, '58, Douagiac, Midi., .August 26. k Miss Carola A. Charles and DONALD E. BLU­BAUGH, '60, .McHcnn-, III., August 2S. Miss Manlec Anne Zalmer and HOWARD P. FOLEY, '60, New Canaan, Conn., August 3. Miss Mar^- Adele Walsh and RUDOLPH A. HORNISH, '60. Morris Plains, N.J., September 2. Miss Diane Rose Ilammes and WILLI.AM B. KlLLlLEiX, '60, Notre Dame, Ind., July 8. .Miss .Myrna Sue Schenck and DEE COOPER STEVENSON, '60, Widiila, Kansas, September 9. Miss Christine Marie Broun and NORBERT WIECH, '60, Notre Dame, Ind., August 3. Miss Mar\- Anna Kunz and JAMES .A. ^\'\'­SOCKI, '60,' Noire Dame, Ind., August 26. Miss Joan Faliveno and ROGER DeNISCIA, '61. Orange. N.J., August 19. Miss Eulah Joan Bass and RONALD L. GREG­ORY, '61, South Bend. Ind., August 19. .Miss .Mars- Patricia Moty and PHILIP C. HOFF­.MAN, '61. Bend, Oregon. September 2. .Miss Judith .McComb and ROBERT J. MEULE­.\L\N, '61, South Bend, Ind., July I. Miss Patricia Ann Schmelzer and D.ANIEL J. SCHUSTER, '61, .Votrc Dame. Ind., .August 3. 
.Miss Sterling Cole and THO.M.AS F. STOLL, '61, Toledo, Ohio, September 2. 
Births 

Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT L. MULaAHY, '47. a son, Patrick Joseph, May 24. 1961. Mr. and Mrs. ROY LAUGHLIN, '48, a daughter, Joan Jfarie, September 16, I96I. Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE H. BALDINGER, JR.. "52, a daughter, July 1, I9GI. Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD .NL KIDDING, '52, a son, Mark Joseph, September 7, 1961. ^^^. and .Mrs. JAMES E. BINCKLEV, '34, a  son, Thomas John, July 18, 1961. ' Capt. and Mrs. EDWARD S. BUSH, '54, a son, James Joseph, August 23, 1961. 
Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. CAMPBELL, '34, a daughter. Marv- Kathrs"n. September 17, 1961. -Mr. and .Mrs'. JOH.NJ. L,\TTNER, '34, a daugh­ter, Margaret. February- 18. 1961. .Mr. and .Mrs. WILLIA.M STAHL, '33, a daugh­ter, Elizabeth Anne. .August 4. 1961. -Mr. and -Mni. TLMOTHY F. .MURPHY, JR., '56. a son, Kevin James, September 1, 1961. .Mr. and .Mrs. JOSEPH N. BOSSE, '37. a son, John Michael. August 5, 1961. Mr. and Mrs. NOR.MAN J. HEYING, '57, a son. Timolliv Patrick. .Mr. and -Mrs. ROBERT WEINER, 57. a son, Paul .Anthonv, August 1, 1961. Mr. and ilrs. PAUL R. BOURJAILY, '58. a son. Peter Roger. Februar\- 17. 1961. .Mr. and .Mrs. FREDERICK W. JA.MROZ, JR., '60, a son. Christopher, November 7, 191)0. 
Deaths 
ALBERT J, DANKEMILLER, '97. died in 

Brooklyn. Xt-u- York, according to mail returned 
to lite Alumni OfTice. No complete details. 
DR. VICTOR D, COLL Y CUCHI, '03. died 

.-Vtigiist. 1961. in Santurce. Puerto Rico, accord­
ing to infonnation rcci-ivcd in the .-\Iumni Office. 
TJie widow and three ciu'Wrcn survive. 
EDWARD ^r. REULRACH, '05, of Chicago. 

III., 3 former star of profes.sional baseball, died 
July 17, 1961. in Glen^i Falls, X.Y. He was the 
only major league pitcher to have pitched two 
consecutive scoreless games in a single day. Before 
W. W. II. he retired from baseball for a long career hi industrJa! relations. His wife suriives. 
LUCIEN B. COPPINGER, '10, of Alton, III., 

died April 23, 1961, according to word received in 
the .Mumni Office. 
HARRY M. KOOP, '12, of Crosby, Minn., died 

July 17, 1961. He is survived by liis %\'idow and 
two sons. 
RICHARD D. DALEY, '17, of Eric, Pcnn., died 

September 6, 1961, in retirement after 35 years 
with the advertising department of the Eric Times. 
He is sur\'ived bv his \Wfe. 
ST.VNLEY B. COFALL, '17, a former football 

star at yotrc Dame, died September 21, 1961, in 
Cleveland, Ohio. Sur^'iving him are his wife, two 
sons, a daughter, and seven grandcliildren. 
ALBERT J. KR.\NZ, '17, of Toledo, Ohio, died 

July 3, 1961, according to information received in 
the Alumni Office. 
JAMES E. CURTIS, '19. died in Indianapolis, 

Ind., according to mail returned to the fVIumni 
Office. No complete details. 
JOHN T. SEYLER, '19, died in Pittsburgh, Pa., 

according to mail returned to the Alumni Office. 
No complete details. 
THOM.VS F. VAN .-URLE, '21, of Saginaw, Mich., died September 10, 1961. He is survived bv his wife. 
JAMES E. a\R.MODY, '23, diet! in Shrcveport, La., according to mail returned to the .-Mumni 
OlTice. So compietc details. 
FELIX J. MELODY, '23, of Baltimore, Md., died June 19, 1961. following a three-week illness. SurN'iving are his wife, two sons, and a daughter. 
PAUL J. DOOLEY, '25, president of Manufac­turers Enameling Corp. of Toledo, Ohio, died Sep­tember 18, 1961. His wife, two sons and a sister sur\'ive. 
FRANCIS X. SL.\TER, '26, of Wheeling, W. Va., died July 2, 1961. He is bur\*ived by his ^nfc, two sons, two daughters and three grandchildren. 
JOSEPH R. WAGNER, '26, of Los Angeles, Calif., died of a heart attack July 7, 1961, accord­ing to word received in the .Alumni Office. 
THONL\S P. M.\DDEN, '27, formerly a pro­fessor of English at the University from 1929 until his retirement in 1958, died Sept. 25, 1961, in .Ashtabula, Ohio. 
REV. MAURICE S. RIGLEV, C.S.C., '27, pro­fessor of English at the University of Portland, Ore., since 1938, and previously a member of the faculty at Notre Dame, died September 18, 1961. Father Rigle>- is survived by three brothers. 
JOHN M. CARROLL, SR., '28, of Springfield, 111., died July 5, 1961. Surviving is his son/ John, Jr., '53. 
CHESTER F. RICE, '28. of Avon Lake, Ohio, died September II. 1961. He had been a manu­facturers' representative in Cleveland. He Is sur­vived bv his wife. 
JOHN F. COSGROVE, '29, of Newark, N.J., died April 30, 1%1. according to information re­ceived in the -Aliunni Office. 
DR. EDWARD S. POST, '29, of San Diego, Calif., died Augtist 20, 1961. Dr. Post was man­ager of the Veterans' .Administration Hospiral in San Diego at the time of his death. Survivors-include his widow, parents, a son, granddaughter^ brother and two sisters. 
BENEDICT L. McSH.ANE, died in Chicago, 111.^ according' to mail returned to the Alumni OSicc. No compietc details. 
JAMES A. BOSCO, 'Si, of Davton, Ohio, dirj July 13, 1%1. His wife sur^•ives. 
HENRY R. HUMPHREY, '38, died in Dayton. Ohio, according to mail returned to the Alumnt Office. No compietc details. 
ALFRED J. CALL-AN, '40, an allornev in Seattle, Wash., died May 28. 1961. of Hodgkins Disease. He is survived by his widow and ten children. 
W. EDGAR DOUGHERTY, JR., '40, of Cana­joharie, N.Y.. died June 5. 1961, according to word received from Iiis mother. 
EDWARD C. RY.AN, '43, president of R>-an Pharmac>-, Inc., of Chicago. 111., died August 11, 1961, according to information received from his wife. He is also survived bv four children. 
CORNELIUS P. PRLVSE.V, '49, of Olean, N.V.. died June 11, I960, according to word received from his wife. 
THOMAS G. MYERS, '51, a program analyst at .Aerospace Corp.. died .August 29, 1961. in Seattle, U'ashington. He is siir\ived by fiis wife, mother, two children, and a sister. 
J.AMES K. COMISKEY, '55. died in New Ro­chelle, N.Y., according to mail returned in the Alumni Office. No complete details. 
JEROME M. DONNELLY, '55. of Steubenvillc, Ohio, died July 7, 1961. of Hodgktns Disease. .After graduation from college, Mr. Donnelly »*'as signed by the Kansas City .Athletics and also played with the Cincinnati Reds- Survivors in­clude his parents, his wife, four sons, a brother and sister, and his paternal grandparents. 
JOHN J. GAFFXEY, '56, of ^Vestchcstcr, liK. died September 1, 1%I, according to word received in the Alumni Office. He is sur\'ived by his parents. 
EDWARD L. NEYLON, '57, of Charleston, \\\ Va.., was killed in an automobile accident .August 6, 1961. Hb parents survive. 
THO.MAS O. MURCH, '61, of .Alpena, Mich., died of a heart defect September 5, 1961. At the time of his death, Mr. Murch was planning to enter the Holy Cross Order for the priesthood. He is survived bv his parents and a brother. 
JESSE C. HARPER, Notre Dame's football coach from 1913 to I9l7, died July 31, 1961, in. Sitka, Kansas. After Knutc Rocknc's death in 1931, Mr. Harper returned to Notre Dame as athletic director for two years. Sur\-i\'ing arc his wife, t\vo sons, and a daughter. 
EDWARD J. DOYLE, of .Northfield, III., died Jidy 29, 1961, Mr. Doyle was a former president of Chicago's Commonwealth Edison Co. He re­ceived his honorary doctor of la-w degree from Notre Dame in 1952, He is survived by two daughters, a son, and thirteen grandchildren. 
SISTER M.ARY AI.MEE, the second oldest mem­ber of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, died July 21, 1961, at St. Mar>-'s Convent. She had completed 72 years of religious profession. 
Sympathy 

J.AMES C. SH.AW, '22, on the death of his daughter, September 10. 1961. 
E. MICHAEL LORDEN, '24, on the death of 
his svifc, September 6, 1961. x\D.A.M WALSH, '25. on the death of his mother. JOHN P., '27, F. JOSEPH, '30, ROBERT, '34. 
and CH.ARLES BUTLER, '40, on the death of their mother, July 15, 1961. WILILAM CORBETT, JR., '27, on the death of his mother, July 10, I96I. ALBERT F. GURV, JR., '28, on the death of his mother. September 8, 1961. GEORGE H. KELLEY, '28, on the death of his wife, August 23. 1961. CHARLES A. SCHUESSLER, '28, on the death of his mother, Jtmc 9, 1961. ROBERT CAHILL, 'SJ, on the death of hii mother, September 25, 1961. 
J. ALBERT SMITH, '34, on the deaths of his is-ife and daughter, July 29, I96I. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 29 
W. LEO KEATING, "43, on the death of his fathrr. Sfptcmbcr 5. 1961. FR,VXCIS R., '48, and JAMES F. PAXTON, 
'54. on the death of their father, July 22, I96I. JOH.V T. GILL, '50, on the death of his father. 
J. DO.VALD R.ATCHFORD, '50. on the death of his father. JOSEPH P. GALLOW.VY, '51, on the death of his father, August 2, 1961. JAMES F. XORTOX, '51, on the death of his mother. WILLIAM A. WHrrESlDE, JR., '51, on tlic death of his father. Julv 1, 1961. JOHN B. PETrTBOX, '52, on tlic death of his father. Scplembcr 23. 1961. WALTER J. MURPHY, JR., '53, on the death of his father, November 26. 1959. 
JOSEPH D. CROUXEY, '55, on the death of liis fatlier, Februar\- 5, 1961. 
50-Year Club 

Anntlicr impressive piece of scmicentcnarj* Irish lore came In late July from our Rapid Cit>% S.D., 
•correspondent, HARRY ^\^ ZOLPER, C.E. 'W: 
"Just briefly; in our '61 March-April ALUMNUS you reported the passing, rather closely together during the late Christinas Season, of our 1904 frhampion debating team, namely: BYROX V. KAXALEY, A.B. W , captain; MOXSIGXOR MAURICE F. GRIFFIX, A.B. *04; and GALLIT­2EX A. FARABAUGH, A.B. 'Qi. .Mso of WIL-LIANf F. BRAUCHLER, E. E. '(H; and later of FATHER EUGENE P. BURKE, A.B. 'M, bless him. 
"Now, from Glen Falls, N.Y., comes Associated Press to tell of the passing of ED REULBACH, '05, on July 17, I9CI, ^v•itl^n hours of the passing of Ty Cobb. Ed. Rculbadi, together witli H.\RRY HOGAN, '05 — still of Fort Wa\-nc—were our pitciicrs on that 1904 cliampion Notre Dame base­ball team. 
*'Thc dispatcli says, 'The big right handcr h best remembered, however, for tlie two shutouts in a doubleheadcr against the Brooklyn Dodgers on Sept. 26, 1908, a feat never duplicated.' To me, however, Ed is best remembered as our hallmatc in Sorin Hall — 1903-04 — from St. Louis, Mo. 'Nig,' as We called him, u-as one of our winning pitciicrs on the '0+ team. Wliat a whip! But home plate wasn't wide enough for him. 
"In the summer of 1904 Captain Frank Chance caught up with *Nig* and signed him up for the Chicago Nationals. 'Nig' never finbhed his course. 
"I still have a copy of the sports page of tlie Chicago Record-Herald of Friday, Aug. 25, 1905. 
It reports the 20-inning game of the day before between Chicago and Philadelphia in Philadelphia; score, Chicago 2, Philadelphia I- Pitciicrs: Chi­cago, Rculbach; Philadelphia. Sparks. Time: 4 hours. Both pitchers pitched the full 20 innings. Each team used but 10 men in the line-up. 
"Chicago got 19 hits. Philadelphia 18 hits. 
Reulbach gave 4 bases on balls. Sparks gave but I. 
Errors: Chicago, 2; Philadelphia. I. Passed ball: 
O'Ncil of Chicago. Strikeouts: Reulbach, 7; 
Sparks, 6. Managers, Frank Change; Philadelphia, 
Jimmy Duffy — both great men. Duffy got as far 
as third base In the twentieth inning with only 
one out. Frank Chance made the winning run In 
the 20th. Chance made 30 put-outs. Schultc made 
four hits; Tinker made three double plays, un­
assisted. .\ double header had been scheduled for 
the day, but only the first game u-as finished. 
"I saw Rculbach in Chicago in January-, 1906. 
He gave Chance credit for much teacliing to ac­
count for his success. At X.D. he w*as a good 
student. On the Sorin Hall 1903 football team I 
plaved center for Captain HARRY HOGAX, full­
back. A\1th baseball catclier LAWRENCE M. 
•CHICK' xVNTOINE, M.E., '04 (died 1915 in So. America) on my left, and ED REULBACH on my right, I had over 400 pounds of protection. I «till have our team picture. Corhy Hall beat us. 
"I clicrish the memorj* of ED REULBACH." 
Tlianks, Mr. 2^Iper, for the beautiful and evoca­tive eulogj" for "Nig." Some day, if you'd trust the .-Uumni OIHce with that Sorin Hall team pic­ture, we'd like to borrow it long enough to print it in this section for the memories it would sum­mon. We'd also like to hear from otlier alumni drca '04 who, like HARRY ZOLPER and HARRY HOGAN, can still read tlils tiny type and ^mtc in a firm, round hand. Please send a note cither to this comer (Alumni Office, Box 555, Notre Dame, Indiana) or Mr. Zolper (H. W. Zolper, 916 Clark Street, Rapid City, South Dakota); you can be sure you'll get a response. 
Only two other recent deaths were reported dur­ing the summer among those who have gone "'round the Horn" of the Golden Jubilee. 
One is DR. \lCrOR D. COLL Y CUCHI, better known simply as \^ctor Coll when he en­tered for a year as a prc-med back in 1899, who passed away in retirement recently in his home in Santurce, Puerto Rico, at the age of 76, a dis­tinguished ph\*sician, historian, administrator, and man of letters. Dr. Coll was bom in 1885 in Arcclbo, episcopal seat of Notre Dame's BISHOP ALFRED MENDEZ, C.S.C., D.D., '31. He had been educated principally on the island, and was active from youth in political affairs w*ith tlie Puerto RIcan Union party. A serious student of the island's histor>', he was among tlie originators of the theor\- that Christopher Columbus first landed on the northern coast of Puerto RJco. He published many historical monographs and was a Q frequent contributor to the columns of El Mundo, Puerto Rico Illustrado, and other periodicals at home and abroad. He serx'ed as director of welfare for many municipalities including San Juan, was medical director on the staff of the srcrctar>* of state, chairman of hlstorv- at the University of Puerto Rico, and in 1940 assumed the post of coordinator for the Department of Health. Sym­pathy to his family and friends. 
.A lo\-aI alumnus and benefactor, whose death last spring lu Alton. 111., was reported in July by the N,D. LIbrar\' /\ssn. (of which he was a cliartcr member), was LUCIEN B. COPPIXGER, '10. Mr. Coppingcr was a law\-er. a member of the N.D. Law .\ssn. and fonnerly represented Texas industries as a resident of Houston and Beaumont, Texas. Tlicre is no record of survivors. Rcqulescant In pace. 
Chicago real estate-mortgage loan-Insurance man @ DANIEL J. O'COXXOR, '05. reported on class­mate WILLIAM D. Jx\.MIESON, with whom he had celebrated the 56th anniversarv* reunion In June. He enclosed a clipping from the Chicago Tribune reporting another Jaiuiesnn anniversary, the 50th of his marriage to the former Ella Seeling, a young Texas schoolmarm with whom a quarrel ox'er the solution to a math problem led to the altar. Mr. Jamieson retired In Januarv' as presi­dent of Jamieson, Inc., Textiles, and earlier had taught English, speech and drama at St. Ed's University in Texas and St. Tliomas College In Minnesota, coaching such silver-tongued future prelates and Ia>'nien as Bishop Fulton J. Sheen and General (now Red Cross President) Alfred M. Gruenther. Mr. O'Connor also enclosed the pic­ture which can be seen in this section, with the following comment: 
"To typify the resultant gIor>- of the effect of @ breathing the Intellectual atmosphere of tlie cam­pus for a few years, you need only glance at the enclosed family picture of one BILL JAMIESON with his numerous sideline rooters. 
"Tlie fx:casion was a golden wedding annlversarv*, celebrated June 17 at the South Shore Countr>' Club. 
"The nuptial High Mass in St. Philip N'cri Church was served by four grandsons, three o( whom arc studying for the priesthood. 
"The assembly of 23 lusty grandclilldrcn Is hardly a true test of Jamie's Scotch ancestr>-, 
"Jamie with eight children and I with nine aim to uphold the tradition of the '05 Class. However, I am one up on him with one great-grandchild. But, from the evidence in the photo, he will out­
© 

WILLIAM D. JAMIESON, '05, and his wife Ella (seated center) arc surrounded by their eight children and 23 grandchildren on their Golden Wedding anniversary, celebrated June 17 at the South Shore Country Club in Chicago, Illinois. A Nuptial High Mass in St. Philip Ncri Church «-as served by four grandsons, three of whom are studying for the priesthood. 
30 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
score mc at the finish. Nuns are a handicap in the production department.** 
Finally, congratulations to REV. CHARLES C. MILTNER, C.S.C., *11, former president and dean of liberal arts at the University of Portland, Ore., and dean of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame from 1922 to 1940. Follo\%ing his 50lU annivcrsar>­reunion in June, Father Miltner was cited in August with an honorary* LL.D. degree at the N.D. sum­mer commencement. A native of Iosco, Mich., Father MJltner was ordained in I9I6, specialized in philosophy and once served as president of the American Catholic Philosophical ^\ssn. He returned to the campus from Portland a year ago. 
1912 
B. J. "Ben" Kaiser 604 East Tenth St. Bcnvick, Pa. 

It is not too early to plan your work (if you arc still working, whicli you should not be) so that vou mav be able to attend y-oiir GOLDEN JUBILEE on June 8, 9, and 10 of 1962. Of the 65 Graduates there arc only 21 known to be alive, with the addition of the ELECTED mem­bers the total is swelled to o6. Wottid it be too much to ask that at least 50 of you show up for the big and last celebration. Fifty years and fifty men to celebrate. Let us make that our slogan. Please do not disappoint me and your fellow members. 
S>-mpathy to the widow and sons of HtVRRY KOOP, who died in July. Classmates can console Mrs. Annabclle Koop, 106 Second St., X.W., Crosby, Minn. 
1913 
Paul R. Byrne 360 Warner Ave. 
Syracuse 5, N. Y. 

The last column on the late great ALFRED "DUTCH" BERGMAN reported that he died in Irene Byron Hospital, Peru, Ind. The report was not quite correct. Dutch was a native of Peru, but the hospital where he spent so many years is in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
1914 
Walter Clements 
623 Park Avenue 
South Bend. Indiana 

Vour secrclar%' had a pleajant chat recently witii FATHER MATT WALSH, and the talk naturally turned to RAY MILLER and the Cleveland Miller Clan, the activities of Ray, Don, etc., in athletics, business, laiv* and politics which some day should make a best-selling book, a family saga in the heroic manner. 
CECIL BIRDER, still apparently taking it cas>­in Minneapolis, Minnesota, is not too far away to make frequent visits with his son Dudley, *50, in the music department of St. Norbcrt's College, DePere, Wis. 
JOE WALSH, wc notice, still attends and rc­

h ports everything in a wide radius as secretary* of the N.D. Club of Spokane, Washington. And EXfMETT WALTER is expected to fill us in soon 
on the effects of Hurricane Carta and licr sister twisters in the Houston, Texas, area. 
1915 
James £. Sanford 
1429W.FarragutAv. Chicago 40, Illinois 

The following from JOSEPH M. BYRNE, JR., 828 Broad Street, Newark, N.J.: "I enjoyed reading your article about the Class of 1915 in the ALUMNUS, but felt ver\- badly that you did not see fit to mention JOE GARG/VN who was a son-in-law of JOHN F. FFTZGER^VLD, brother-in-la^v of JOSEPH P. KENNEDY, and the uncle of both our President and Attorncj* General. 
•'He also had a boy graduated from Notre Dame who ran President Kennedv's campaign with young BOB KE.\NEDY. 
"It will be a long while before wc have another alumnus who covered the ground and was as illustrious as JOE GARG.-VN. 
"P.S. Joe's photo appears on page 58 of the 1915 DOME. He surely was a big party in the Kennedy-Fitzgerald group. Joe's wife, Agnes Fitz­gerald, died many years ago. Rose, her sister, a beauty, is JPK's bride." 
Notre Dame's presidential trouble - shooter. GEORGE SHUSTER, xvas subtle, witty, urbane, but always serious as the University's summer commencement speaker on August 3. addressing about 360 scholars receiving degrees, including 160 nuns, their families and friends. The I960 Laetarc Medalist speaks so often and so quoiably that Shusterisms arc hard to keep up with in print, but excerpts from his 1961 Universal Notre Dame Night address in Chicago may appear in this issue. 
1916 
Grover F. Miller 612 Wisconsin Ave. Racine, Wisconsin 

From the Alumni Office; 
Since the 45lh reunion, GROVER MILLER has been busy getting his shirt collar de-tamished for the picture above. while FATHER VINCE MOONEY keeps bouncing back to the campus from Columbus, O., getting briefed for the school system he operates in his parish. 
Absent in June in spite of a faint hope of meeting the class with which he's identified, the mascot from the Minims, New York's EEIGAR KOBAK, sent FATHER HESBURGH a column-long clipping from tlie New York Herald-Tribune with a glowing reminiscence of an all-timc great, EDWARD MARVLV "BIG ED** REULBACH, Notre Dame athlete and big league pitcher who died in JtUy. It was enclosed with this note to the president of the University: 
".\ few years before you were born, Notre Dame had a wonderful pitcher named ED REULB.ACH, who later pitched for the Chicago Cubs. He and some other members of the Varsity took the time to coach the various baseball teams among the Minims, and I was fortunate enough to have his help. He later became one of America's greatest pitchers. He even invited me to sit on the Cubs* bench when I was ele\-en years old and hold his glove when he was not on the mound. 
'*I just thought I would bring you up to date on the fact that Notre Dame has produced base­ball players who were great, as well as football players, priests, scientists and cardinals." 
1917 
Edward J. McOsker 525 N. Mehrosc Ave-Elgin, Illinois 

The accompanying picture of mc was secured as a result of the clieerful cocrdon of the editors. The only aliernativc was for them to use the picture that appeared in the 1917 Dome, and that would have been awful. It doesn't look much like me now. Besides, the mortarboard was too small for mc. I believe I wore it only once — at the Washington Day flag raising. Like a lot of you fellows, I received my diploma in a military uniform as a member of the officers' training unit. 
Now that you know again what I look like, maybe you will collaborate with me and send me ne^« about yourselves and your families or items about some of the other boys with \*-hom you may 
TWIN ROCKNE TROPHIES were awarded in Denver to state Catholic high school champs in football and basketball (from left): Ben Domenico, co-captain of Denver's Regis accepts the football award from Ail-American John Lattner; and 
(l.-r.) Merrill Gee, assistant coach at St Mary's of Colorado Springs, receives the basketball award from the Truckers* John Dec. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 3t 
he in contact. Jiist address iiic as above, at 525 
North Melrose Avenue. Elgin, Illinois. 
The 45th anniversarv' of the Class is a scant lialf year away. Nearly 40 of yow turned out for the 40th, and a lew have returned cver\* vcar since then. Some, like ALBERT KR.\NZ (whose death in July %v"3S reported in the last issue), will not return again. But I'm cmmting on BERNIE VOLL, BILL GR;\DY and other perennial reunion-crashers to stir up a record-breaking 45 for the 45tli. I am in a location where I seldom sec any of you <ELMER TOBIN is the only classmate living in Elgin), 50 ril need plenty of help from all who received the clas-; list a month ago. 
While sending sympathy lo the widow of .\L KR.AXZ, we inu.-t also share the sorrow of RICHARD DALEY'S widow. Dick, recently retired as national advviilsing manager of the Eric Times and 1958 Man of the Year among Eric alumni, died in September and is mourned by all who remember him as a basketball player and Notre Dame Man. 
The death of STAN COEALL was reported just at h»ck-up time, so we were unable to prepare an adequate tribute to a crcat Notre Dame athlete. 
DANIEL E. HILG.ARTNER, JR., sent in the Tolhming to JI.M ARMSTRONG from Forest Springs, Harbert, Michigan: 
*'I was ^ou t to say, forget the prayers for DICK DALEY but on second thought, now is the time for his friends to pray for the repose of his soul, because Dick left ihts troubled old world on "Wednesday, September M.\th, according to the en­closed obituar>" from Tlie Erie Daily Times, by whom he u-as employed for more than thirty-five years. He liad the same position that EDDIE MEEHAN had for so many years on the South Bend Tribune. 
*'He was a real Notre Dame man. Jim. Please give him a nice ol»ituar\- in the next issue of the ALUMNUS, and perhaps a mention in the 1917 class notes. bccaiL»-e he was verj' popular." 
1918 
Charles W. Call 225 Patcrson Ave. Hasbrouck Heights, New Jersey 

Maybe the Rogues Ga!ler>' of class secretaries has a worth angle after all, .\t least it was pleasantlv surjirising to receive a cordial letter from MICHAEL M, SHEEDY, of Caracas, Vene­zuela, who in perusing the .ALUMNUS recalled your secreiar>" as a close neighbor some 25 years ago before the Shecdy family moved to Buffalo. ^lichael and his brothers Paul, Dan and Joe, .graduated from the University between 1935 and 1942. with Paul's nm currently a Notre Dame student. We really should omit the usual "small uiirld" obserx-ation. 
TOM KING, long-time Dean of Students at Michigan State University, has nm up against the "age barrier" as far a.-- holding certain posi­tions with the Institution Is concerned, but will continue to utilize his experience in the Office of the Secretarv. an arrangement entlrclv to his liking. 
VINCE GIBLIN, of Sibley, GruMnark, Glblin. King & Lcvcnson, legal e.vpcrts, of Miami, Informs he makes frequent trips to Cleveland, and that he sees a threat deal of the MILLER fftotball famllv, including DON. R.AY, WALTER and CREIGH­TON. If a TV station cnuld arrange an argu­ment with \1nce on (uie side and Walter on an­other it really would have a program. There would have to be some .special arrangements for keeping the characters awake. 
Your .secretary* will be spending the winter months at Winter Haven. Fla.. mostly playing goU. 
1919 
Theo. C Radcmaker 
Peru Foundry Co. 
Peru, Indiana 

From the .Mumnl Office: Recent correspondence with erstwhile classmate JAMES E. CURTIS has been returned marked 
32 Notre Dame Alumnus, November^ 1961 
"deceased" but with no date or details given. Tlie office would be obliged to anyone who could supply information on Jim's passing, his family, etc His last knou-n address was 4631 Broadway, Indian­apolis, Ind. 
Meanwhile, of course, prayers would be welcome for the probable eventuality that the report will be confirmed. 
1920 
James H. Ryan 
170 AXaybrook Rd. 
Rochester 18, N. Y. 

From the Alumni Office: 
FATHER ARTHUR HOPE, C.S.C., should be given Indiana license plates for the nimble man­ner in whicli he narigates about the campus. Tlie great historian of the University and editor of the Province Rericw, stricken by a particularly viru­lent fonn of diabetes which affects the extremi­ties, was finally persuaded to accept a motor-driven whccldialr and operates It with the dex­terity of an Indianapolis *'500" veteran. 
1921 
Dan W. Duffy 1101 Superior BIdg. Cleveland 14, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: Was It planning or merely accident that attend­ance at the 40th anniversary- of the Class last June numbered precisely one score plus one. "Twenty-one for '21 in '61" would have been a great motto. KID ASHE and the Madison Ave­nue mob of '22 might want to adopt it with the addition of a digit for their 40th next June. On top of the death of DR. JAMES CLANCY 
comes word of the passing of another face once familiar at reunions. TOM VAN AARLE died in September in Saginaw, Mich. Deepest s>Tnpathy to his widow (1935 Handlcy, Saginaw) and to Tom, Jr., who also attended the University. 
1922 
G. A. "Kid" Ashe 175 Landing Rd. No. Rochester 25, N. Y. 

Our vcr>- genial and popular Class president. 
J. RiVLPH COR\'N of Molinc, Illinois (2545 — 13 St.), has decreed it is high time we are up and doing with plans for our gala 40th Anniversary' Reunion to be held In early June next year. Since the issues of the ALUMNUS are spread so far apart, it Is urgent that we make use of this issue to start things moving to the end that this coming reunion will be just as successful as, or even more so than, any of our past reunions. Tliere arc a great many wa>-s wherein wc can assist in making our 40th a grand success, but the greatest single contribution any man of '22 can make Is to arrange personally to be present there. Plan right now to let nothing except the will of God prevent you from attcndlng-thc'-classic -T-liere-Is no need to tell you that our ranks arc thinning out, If you have been reading the ALUMNUS lately. It b not prudent to figure on passing up our 40th, expecting to attend subsequent ones. Wc may never have another opportunity. We urge all those who have been missing from past reunions 
FIA^E JUDGES chat with Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. (extreme left), acting president, at the semi-annual meeting of the Notre Dame Law School Advisory Council (I.-r.): Roger J. Kiley, '23, recently named to the U. S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh 
Circuit, Chicago, III.; Charles S- Desmond, Court of Appeals of New York, Buffalo, N, Y.; Hugh C. Boyle, '24, Orphans* Court of Allegheny County, Pittsburgh, Pa.; William B. Lawless, '44, of the Supreme Court of New York, Buffalo; and Walter V. Schaefer, of the Supreme Court of Illinois, Chicago. Kiley, Desmond, Boyle and Schaefer are members of the Ad\Tsory Council, and Lawless is national president of the Notre Dame La«­Association. Other Notre Danic judges in the news were: Luther Su-ygert, '27, also named to the U. S. 7th Circuit Court of Appeals, Chicago; Thomas Dono\-an, 24, 
(see "Spotlight Alumnus"), of Chicago's Family Court; and Portland, Ore., Circuit Judge Frank Loncrgan, '04, who died in October. 
for many plausible reasons to make a special cfTort 

c# 
to be with their buddies this time. Of course, God willing, the Old Reliables \vill be there for thc>* always show, sucli men as: 
HUNK ANDERSON, FR.\NK BLOEMER, CHET \n'NNE, JACK HIGGINS, JERRY DIX­ON, CHICK CROWLEY, HAROLD WEBER, GENE SMOGOR, JOE FARLEY, TOM .McaVBE, RvVNGY .MILES, JIM JONES, BERNIE McaVF-FERY, PAT MANION, JOHN PAUL CULLEN, DRS. MATT WEIS and DAN SEXTON, WALTER SHILTS, MORGAN SHEEDY, DAN YOUNG, PETE CHAMPION, DANNY COUGHLIN, WIL­FRED DWTER, GEORGE KERVER, JIM SHAW, and many others. 
We regret to report the illness of a classmate 
— Ria\RD Arca\RT\'. His address is 1832 Wood­land Avenue, N.W., Canton 9, Ohio. Rick's sis­ter, .Mrs. Austin L>*ncli, is ill at the same address. How about prayers and a few notes? 

c» 
ED GOTTRY in early September was \*acaiion­ing a bit, visiting Montreal, Ottawa, Detroit, Hunt­ington (Indiana) and Chicago. 
Of great interest to us all is a report from our class prcxy, J. R^VLPH CORYN, that he nsited the Notre Dame campus in late August for a Foundation meeting and while in that area con­ferred with '22 representatives in the St. Joe Valley who seemed in agreement that FRED DRESSEL should take over as South Bend chairman for our 40th Reunion. Fred perfonned admirably in the same spot on a prior occasion, as also did AARON HUGUENARD of happy niemor>-, and R/\NGY MILES, who turned in a flawless performance for our 35th Reunion. Fred has agreed to accept the call along with all the work it involves because he has always gone the limit in matters where. he could contribute his experience and skill in fur­thering things of a social nature for '22. 

From the Alumni Office: tjk Marie and FRrVNK BLOEMER reported an acci­^ dent in late July during their trip through Canada 
•and the Pacific Northwest, reported in the last issue. Their truck-mounted home turned o%-er near Rcgina, Saskatcliewan, but seat belts saved them from any injury. They passed through about the time of a raging fire in Wilcox, Sask., which narrowly missed burning down little Notre Dame College there, a school historically as fire-prone as its namesake, saved by what its president called "another Notre Dame miracle." 
Sticking to his guns, former Law Dean — now law>-er-r3dio commentator CL;VRENCE (PAT) MANION, stood up for constitutional conscrva' tism in September's national convention of the Christian Crusade, along with Robert Welch and Gen. C. A. Willonghby. 
1923 
Louis V, Bruggner 2165 Riverside 0r. South Bcnd^ Indiana 

From the Alumni Office: 
Secrctao- LOUIS BRUGGNER has taken a ver^­rare rest from the column and frequent class letters, perhaps to tend to his expanded operation in the suburbs, a new branch of his downtown book shop 
-..in South Bend's McKInley Town & Countrv" Shop-
Vping Center. For the past year or so he's had a semi-official public status as junior advisor to his brother Frank, mavor of South Bend since the death of EDWARD VOORDE, '36. Frank stepped up in line of succession as city comptroller. 
Always in contact. Lou phoned in a report on the death of FELIX J. .MELODY, who died in June of a heart attack after a brief illness. SJTU­pathy to his children, Richard, James, and Jcan­netlc, and particularly to his widow, Laura J. Melody, 613 Harwond Avenue, Baltimore 12, Md. 
1924 
James R. Meehan 301S. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend 10, Ind. 
rom the /Uunini Olfice: 

©^ 
Congratulations to the Philippines' JOHN F. GOTUACO on a project that made the last two 
HON. THOMAS C. DONOVAN, '24 
In Family Court, an Irish Solomon 

The Chicago Tribune recently carried a full page human interest stor>* on happiness and heartbreak at Chicago^s awesome Family Court. The newspaper credited the success of the court to the mixture of parental sternness, tender compassion and citizen's indignation In its handling by Judge Thomas Donovan. 
Judge Dono\-an \vas bom in Chatsworth, III., one of si.\ children. .V sister. Sister 
M. .-Xnnice, G.S.C., is head of the phil­osophy dcpt. of St. Mar\'*s College. Tom's pre-LL.B. experience as a member of S..\.C. and the Blue Circle stood him in good stead later (as president of the Chicago N.D. Club in 1940-1941). He ser\cd as assistant corporation counsel for the City of Chicago from 1925 to 1927. From 1927 to 1957 he engaged in the general practice of law. as senior partner in the law firm of Donovan, Sullivan and Jcffers (all N.D. graduates). 
In June, 1957, he was elected Judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, and has now completed three years in the Family Court (juvenile) regarded as the hardest assignment in Cook County. It is said to be the largest court of its kind in the world and the first Juvenile court in the U.S. 
Tom was married in Chicago in October of 1929 to Mar\* Jane Cunningham. They now reside in the Beverly Hills Section of Chicago, and have six children (Jane Dono­\-an R>'an, SMC '54; Thomas C, Jr., ND *56; Diane Donovan Grant, SMC *57: John F., ND '59: Patricia .X., SMC '60: Eileen R., SMC '66?) and seven grandchildren. 
The Judge is active in church, school and hospital building drives, which keep him too busy to improve his own "drive" in golf at Beverly Country- Club. 
issues of the .\LUMNUS. John was president of the small but influential Notre Dame Club of Manila during the drive to supply funds for the furniture gracing the new Hollvwood Familv Theater of FATHER PATRICK PA^TON. *37. 
It's a good gauge of the passage of time to con­sider that erstwhile classmate FR/\NK W. KELLY completed 35 years on the campus last year as a speech prof and major-domo in O'Shaughnessv Halt 
1925 
John P. Hurley 2085 Brookdalc Road Toledo 6, Ohio 

No late news from you lugs, so I have to go back to my questionnaires and glean a few quickies from them that mav have some interest to the class. STEPHE.V C. a\RBOY is retired and living at 2670 .\.E. 24lh St. in Pompano Beach, Florida, with his wife, two daughters and a son. EDWARD F. OTOOLE is still practicing law at 10 South LaSalle St., in Chicago. JERO.ME A. BENNING is a certified public accountant and has his offices at 1070 Northwestern Bank BIdg., Min­neapolis, .Minn. JOSEPH J. SaALISE Is also an accountant with the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. in .-Vkron, but he lives at 2337 llth St. in Cuyhoga Falls, Ohio. JOHN LEO GRACE is president of the Kokonio Lithographic Co.' in the city of the same name, in the Hoosier state. His son gradu­ated from Notre Dame about two or three years ago. I used to see Leo and the son %vhcn my daughter was at St. Mar>'s. JOHN F. "DOC" STOKLEY is with Segerdahl-Hal ford Printing Co. in Chicago. WALTER HALL is credit manager of the Red Owl Stores In Hopkins, Minn. Walter has sbc cliildreii — all as he says, **pretty well grown up and approaching matrimony.'' Walt would like to hear from JERRY BENNING. At least I have his address noted above. BARNEY MacN.AB is in the Insurance business, Campbell &: MacNab, 1200 Falling Building in Portland, Oregon. Barnev would like to hear from JACK MELLEY and FR.\NK MURR^U". BERNARD W. LEY is in the real estate business, Hemlngcr-RItzman Co. in Akron, Ohio. 
LESTER J. WOLF, 333 West Park Blvd.. Haddonfield, New Jersey, Is an engineer with R.C..-\.. His son Walter graduated from N.D. In '58 \%ith a BSEng and an LL.B. The AVolf's also have a daughter and a young son Jimmy, who Is nine years old. Can any of you 25cr5 come up with a younger child? PAUL HOEFFLER is in life insurance In East Greenwich, R.I. **It Is always good to read \*our report on the rest of the survivors nf '25. I hope you stick around another 35 years, John, and keep the dwindling herd informed of the passing of time. I would like to sec you some time if yon ever come East." If I stayed around that long, Paul, my wife may never collect on that insurance you sold me many years ago. At this point I re­member you Were a. close friend of PAUL DOOLEY of Toledo. Paul Is ver>* seriously ill. I know you and many of his classmates will remember him in your prayers. Paul has both of his sons at Notre Dame. 
MICHAEL J. KEYES is retired now after 34 years as country life editor of the Fresno Bee and Is dividing his time bct^veen Fresno. Cal., and the Keyes "chalet" In the Carmel Valley, about six miles up the valley from the Mission. .Another one of the retired bovs is WARD Mc-a\RRON, 1501 S.E. 14th St. in Ft. Lauderdale. Fla. \\'ard keeps busy in church work. He is an usher at St. Sebastian Church. He surprised me one day when he passed the basket under my nose. He is district deput>' in the Knights of Columbus and past grand knight In that city. Ke was too busy installing new councils to make our last reunion. He tetb me his brother E^VRL .McCARRON is still in Fairbanks, Alaska. He and his wife had spent three weeks with them last year. I started with a retired Florida classmate and I will end this with same. It Is early Septem­ber as I write this. Our post-game cocktail party is after the Notre Dame-Northwestcm game on October 28. .Also don't forget to send HANK >\'URZER, Blackhawk Hotels, Davenport, Iowa, 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 33 
your Mass Fund contribution. It is later than you Rudy gave me a letter from HENRY REH.M. ned to alert HERB JONES, FRANK MORAN, th'mk and we want to build up diat fund — Henry* is diairman of the attendance committee etc., as the local team of fixer-uppers. tlmnUs to you fellows ^v•ho Icccp coming with of the Laymans Retreat League of his diocese, a This will be the first time that the beloved JOE ^ your "buds." noble work that keeps him on the Jump all BOLAND won't be in the throng, but in Joe's 
summer. memory the Class may even be able to persuade 
From the Alumni Office: 
.' The story- leaked to the Washington Star in 
August that Horseman DON MILLER had been 
named to AVashington's U-S. District Court, but 
th'e- announcement A^-as a little premature. .-Ml that 
cimld be determined by the time of this filing is 
that the Cleveland lau*yer, brother of former 
mayor RAY >nLLER, '14, was one of three Ohio 
candidates. 
: Coral Gables' I. I. PROBST sent in word about 
Kis longtime friend. Mayor AL E. FELLNER of 
North Redington Beach, St- Petersburg, Fla. Finally 
contested after eight unopposed years as North 
R"cdington's mayor, Al soundly trounced his first 
opponent and started his fifth consecutive t*vo­
ycar term in July, Credited with widening the 
main street, installing lights, sewers and better 
municipal scr\-iccs while lowering txxcs, Al will 
be hard to unseat. He and Mrs. Fcllncr own and 
operate St. Pcterbur^h's Coral Shores motel. 
'Tlic death of PAUL DOOLEY in Toledo was 
reported just after this column went to press. 
S\-mpathy to his wife Margaret and his two sons, 
who transferred to Toledo U. from X.D. because 
of Paul's illness. 
1926 
Frank A- Deitic 

\ 1763 Kcsslcr Blvd. 
South Bend 16, Ind. 

Tlicrc was a g(»od response to RUDY 
GOEPFRICH'S letter, asking our class to 
strengthen the c1a.ss fund that Is used to enroll 
deceased members of the class in the Holy Cross 
Mission Purgatorial Society. To date 56 checks 
have , been • turned over to ART HALEY, our 
treasurer. 
Tlicre were several notes accompanying the checks: ROGER NOL;\X's daughter was married Saturday.' June 10 — so Rog had the perfect reason ' for not attending the reunion. VIXCE SOISSON and VINCE CAPANO were at the air­port, b^t their plane was grounded by weather. Tho' could not make the connecting fliglit at De­troit, so thc5' finally cancelled out. JOE SHEA, now managing the Statler Hilton in Buffalo, liad problems -at the last minute that kept him away. WADE SULLIV.AN, JACK ADAMS, BERNIE WTNGERTER, LES CLARK and IZ PROBST were kept away from the reunion by graduations or tlic .'press of business. 
One <»rporatc check originating In Xc\v York had me stumped for a while, but a letter of in­quiry solved the problem. It was from TONY ROXAS. I received a new5>* letter from my old roommate JIM WALDRON. Jim had planned to come to tl»e reunion but ^^'as concerned about his health at the time. Jtm said that be recently became a grandfather — with a new grand­daughtcr. Jim still corresponds with RAOUL GOMEZ of Tampico, Mexico, a third in our room in Freshman Hall. 
RUDY GOEPFRICH, our class president, is 
probably the cliamplon traveler of our class. You 
get cards from Paris, Tokyo, and \*arious sections 
of our own country, and he always finds time 
to look up a classmate. Last week he wrote from 
Portland, Oregon, saving he had \'isited \v*ith 
NORB KAVANAUGH. Norb has had a bad 
artliritic condition the past eight or ten yean. 
He spends most of his time in bed but is very 
cheerful and carries on his law practice mostly 
by telephone — so drop him a line. Also w-hllc 
in Portland. Rudv tried to get in toudi with 
FATHER HOWARD KENNA the President of 
the University of Portland, but Father Kcnna was 
away on Retreat. 
Word has been received that three of our dass have passed on since the reunion. THOMAS J. MURPHY — JOSEPH R. WAGNER and FRANK 
X. SLATER. Pray for them. 
From the Alumni Office: When FR^VNCIS X. "DUKE'* SLATER died in July, daughter Sally Slater Pierce heeded a request that the Alumni Association be notified. She wrote: "Our dear Daddy passed away very suddenly in his sleep Sunday, July 2. He is sur\-ived by our Mother, ^!argarct Ward Slater; two sons, Francis X., Jr., and Anthony Ward; and two daughters, Mrs. Alfred S. Baran and ^trs. Stanley L. Pierce; and three grandcliildrcn." Mrs. Slater (Bos 883. Wheeling, W. Va.) ivas advised of a- Mass Sept. 2 and assured of continued prayers, EUGENE CAL­HOUN x*Totc in to report the death of JOSEPH W.AGNER, a baclielor, in Los Angeles July 7. A Mass was celebrated for him on campus August 5. Both, of course, will be enrolled In the Holy Cross Missions Purgatorial Society. 
1927 
Clarence J. Ruddy 32 S. River Street Aurora, Illinois • 

From the Alumni Office: The 5tor\' on VAN WALLACE In the last Issue ^vas a poignant reminder that the 35tli anniversary reunion of this distinguished Class is only a few months away- Next June Van should be leading the parade back to the Fountainhead, which is also headquarters of his Lourdcs Confraternity. Secretary- CLARENCE RUDDY was on the cam­pus In September to kick off the drive and also to install his son Phil for the junior year. He plan­
the venerable WALTER WELLESLEY *'BRICK" SMITH to ditch his t\-pewritcr and don his beanie for the first time in many moons. 
For the occasion PAUL BUTLER should be able to dodge his duties recently acquired with the St. LauTcncc Seaway advisory board and shift his law-operation from Washington to his South Bend office. 
Reported deceased just at press time and mourned by faculty and alumni alike were PROF. FRANK MORAN, known to thousands as a tcaclicr of English, and REV. XLAURICE S. RIGLEY, C.S.C., who worked both as a teacher and parish priest. 
1928 
Louis F. Buckley 68-10 108th Street Forest Hills 75, N.Y. 

Our Class, nniouched by death since our "In 
Nferaoriam" card was Issued In January 1961, 
adds JOHN a\RROLL and JOHN HERBERT 
NESTER who died on July 5 and .May 29, 1961, 
respectix'ely, tti the list of deceased classmates. 
JOHN CARROLL was alwa\-s actively interested 
in our class. Those who attended our 30-year re­
union and our football game cocktail party In 
1958 will remember that John had emph>-sema atd 
that time. John spent 25 years in highway con­
struction business in Springfield, Illinois. At the 
time of his death John was administrative assistant 
to the rice-president In cliarge of sales for Weaver 
Manufacturing Division of Dura Co. He ^va5 on 
the advisory board of the Illinois Tollwa\-5 System. 
John served with the Navy Sea Bees in AVorld 
War H. He Is survived by his wife, his mother, 
four children and six grandchildren. One son 
Is a graduate of Notre Dame. 
BERT KORZEN (Kor^eneski), probate court clerk of Cook County for the last seven years, was Selected for the Interim appointment os Cook County treasurer. Bert has two daughters, ages 15 and 10. 
F.ATHER GEORGE BE.\AGLIA, C.S.C., has been reappointed president of Kings College in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, where he has served _ as president for six years. M 
RAY G. MOCK, director of placement at the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minnesota, was elected president of the Midwest College Placement .\ssodatlon. In response to a letter of congratula­tions, Ray mentioned that he sau- TO^f MAHON at St, Thomas Academy, where Tom v^-as en­rolling his son. It Is the first time Ray has seen Tom since graduation. 
GEORGE COURY wrote from Rome after 
MEMPHIS—Notre Darnels athletic director, Edwanl "Mpqsc" Krause {in ice arcam pants), was a special guest for parents and students at crowded sendoff party arranged by thc^'Notre Dame Club of Memphis in September. 
34 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 2961 
spending some time in Lebanon where he buUt a scJiooI in his native Wllage. ED RAFTER called 

• me on Iiis u-ay to Europe. Ed mentioned that he sees BILL GOLITZ who is with Montgomery Ward in Chicago and BILL D\VYER^ whose daughter was married recently. A number of our classmates arc moWng these da>'s. My old roommate, JOE L. BR/WNON, is novc with Sears, Roebuck & Co. in Glendalc, Calirornia. Joe is now a grandfather. Joe men­tioned that bis brother Bob is a District Court Judge for Western Iowa. JOE L/\NGTOX has moved his office to the Langlon Auto Supply Company in Ottawa, Illinois. Joe has stores also in Ponliac and LaSalle, Illinois. He expects to attend our '28 cocktail party this year. lie has a son who is a freshman at Notre Dame. Joe accepted an appointment from our Class President JIM ALLi\N to raise funds for promoting our 35lli class reunion in June, 19(i3. You will be hearing from Joe on this matter. 
A TI.M TOOMEY reports from Boston that JACK EGAN* is recuperating from serious abdominal sur­gery*. Tim also mentioned that he x'isited Mrs. JACK L/WELLE and learned that her son John, who continues as •water boy for X.Y. Giants foot­ball team, \rill enter St. John*s I'rep in Brooklyn. 
F.X. JI\f O'BRIEN sent me a bamboo rosar>' from Tokyo, Japan, while on a trip around the world with a group of Miami business men. Jim. was at home in the Tokyo Stock Rxchangc, since right after World War II he was tapped by Gen. Douglas MacArthur to reopen the cxcliange. 
JOHN Lr\;V, *30, of Tarrytown, N. Y., was ap­pointed to the N. Y. State Commission of Cor­rection. The Commission oversees the operation of the state prison sj-stem. John, who always attends our reunions, promises to be there for our 33th in 1963. John commented In a recent letter, "Since you were kind enough to include 

^ mc as an associate of the class, I look for^vard to 
™ being with a real going concern, as you personally made your group the outstanding one that hxs ever graduated from N.D.*' 
FATHER JIM McSHANE, S.J., xvrote from Honduras that he called a meeting of all N.D. men in that countr>', two of them. Father Jim and JOE FACUSSE, *44, In the airport of the capital. Father Jim was Icaring by mule for Santa Elena. 
CHARLEY SCHUESSLER has our sincere s>Tn­pathy on the death of his niollier. Charley's son who was graduated from N.D. In June in engi­neering Is working with his dad In Chicago. Charley has a daughter at St. Louis University. I am looking for%\-ard to seeing Charley and his wife at the '28 cocktail party at N.D. following the Northwestern game. 

I received a card announcing the opening of the ifcKcown-Phalin ChexTolet, Inc., at 3Q0 Roosc­^ velt Road, Glen Ellyn, Illinois. 
" While attending a conference at Indiana Uni­versity, I met ST.\NLEY LECHOWICK, '27, who is Chief, Di\*ision of Labor Statistics, Ohio State Department of Industrial Relations in Columbus, Ohio. Stan has nine children, three of whom arc at the seminary of the Oblate of ifary Im­maculate In San Antonio, Texas. BILL BROU7C of Allis-Chalmers iffg. Company in Milu*aukee and FATHER MARK F1T2CER.VLD, C.S.C., of the Department of Economics at Notre Dame University, joined me at the National Catholic Social .Action Conference in Detroit In August. 
I was ver\* sorr>* to hear from BILL JONES that BILL COYNE, '27, Is ill in Washington, D.C. I saw BILL COYNE earlier this summer when he was getting around on crutches. His son who Is a medical student at the University of Mar>'­land was marrletl tins summer. BILL JONES men­

^ tioncd that one of MIKE RICK*s sons had dinner 
*y with them. Tlic boy had graduated from Purdue and \*"as at Georgetown University School of Linguistics. Another one of MIKE RICK*s boys is at Holy Cross College in AVashlngton, D.C, studying theology. His daughter is at Dunbarton College in Washington. 
TOM RODGERS Is sales manager, Buffalo District, Pcnn & Dixie Cement Corp., Portland Cement Manufacturers. Tom has sue clilldren and fourteen grandchildren. Two of his 5ons are N.D. graduates. 
JOE B.\IRLEY is vice president of Bairiey & Lindley, Inc., highway contractors, in Trenton, Michigan. One of Joe's eight children is Fratcr Lambert with the Trapplst-Cisterdan Order at Trappist, Kentucky-. 
JOE BRAUNSDORF is with the Indiana & Michigan Electric Co. as District Engineer in South Bend. He has one son. 

^ ART DENCHFIELD and JIM ALLAN ad^-iscd 
- mc of the sudden death of CHET RICE on Sep­tember II, 1961, from a heart condition. He was 
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER, LL.D. '60, was visited by Prof. Paul Bartholomew, '29, at the former president's Gettysburg fami durins^ the summer. 
burled in his hometown of Youngstown. Chel is sur\'Ived by his wife. He has been a manufac­turers' representative with headquarters in Cleve­land. He wrote as follows after our 30-year re­union: "Even the boys of *33, at their Silver Reunion, wonder how that management group of '28ers can still beat them all at reunions." Clict's many friends In the class will miss him at the next reunion. Masses are being ofTered at the re­quest of the Class for JOHN CARROLL, JOHN NESTER and CHET RICE. 
The SNTUpathy of the Class Is extended to OR­VILLE MURCH on the death of his son, Tom. on September 5, 1961. Tom had received his de­gree from Notre Danie this year. 
We also learned with sincere regret of the death of .VL GURY'S mother on September 8th. AFs father died only last year. 
From the Altunni Office; Here arc a few notes from the wire ser\"ices on Secretar>* LOU BUCKLEY, who is much too busy to report on his own affairs. On .-Vugust 7 the Dcpt. of Labor B.L.S. regional director was a guest witli magazine reporter Peter Martin and others on the "At Your Beck and Call" talk show on New York's WXT.-\-T\'. On .August 25 he presented an address before the Employment 
JOHN LAW, '30, (right) of Tarrytown,: N.Y., is sworn in as a member of the 
New York State Correction Commission by Secretar>' of State Caroline Simon 
and Governor Nelson Rockefeller. Rockne's 
1929 championship captain is aptly named for his career in prison 
recreation and rehabilitation work: 
Dlscrlminalipii',-. Workshop at the National Con* fercncc for Interracial Justice, University of De­troit, Michigan;"^ describing the economic factors affecting discrimination; e-g-t there will be in­creased demand for professional, muiagcrial and technically skilled Negro workers, but the demand for unskilled l^or, will not Increase and may decline, making education the key to the problem. On August 27, Lour-vfiis presented with the National Catholic Social -.Ac'tiojn Conference's annual award a<v the "outstanding Catholic layman in the Held of s(»cial action." TIi^') Catholic Action group, of which he was the first president, noted in the cita­tion his zeal for ^'racial /justice and Industrial har­mony.^' And in early September he rejoined the academic world as a prof^sor of economics teach­ing afternoons in the graduate school of Fordham University — "Just - something to keep me out of mischief In my spare timc,"-;Commented the miracle 
man. ', 
1929 
Larry Stauder Engineering BIdg. ; Notre Dame, Indiana 

FATHER LOUIS THOFLVTON, C.S.C., Director of Placement at Notre Dame and a fawrite of every *29er, was confined' to the hospital and the infirmary for several weeks'^! this summer. We are pleased to report that h^, is back at his desk to insure continued smooth'^operation of his much complimented ofHce. 
ROCCO PERONE, a wKecI at .American Tele­phone and Telegraph C'oj^ Cincinnati, and wife .Agnes (1179 Coral Sea Drive) have this to say about their fine family:' "Mary Elena (oldest daughter) is married and Attending Miami College, Oxford, Ohio. She and her husband will graduate together next year. Paulctte will return to Miami In the fall as a sophomore. Denlse attends ^fcNicholas Ifigh where she Is social chairman of the Catholic group and /active In singing and as a pianist. Rocco, Jr.,,v and Perr\- (10 and 6 respectively) play ball .-from morning to dark. They know* all the sta'tistlcs of the Cincinnati Reds and of most of th^e National League. Rock pla;-s left field on the; Olin Mathison knothole team; is a real good Ultter; hopes to qualify for Reds in about eight years. Perry draws ball play­ers and has plans to be' a sports cartoonist. He also likes to announce ball games like Walte Hoyt and Jack ^torm. 
"I would like to; hear from and sec JACK DONAHUE, FRANK METRAILER, GENE AHL­LIFF, KARL ilARTERSTECK, ED BARCH, TOM LANTRY.and ED DeB.AENE." 
FATHER JOSEPH GAR\aN, C.S.C., of the ^^odem Languages Dcpt., will see all the home football games as usual and looks fonvard to see­ing his classmates and friends again. 
JOE UHALEN, manager of the Hotel Fort Des ifoincs, pes Moines, Iowa, will see the Iowa game at Iowa City but will be In Seattle at the time of the - Northwestern game. (Your secretary has heard some glowing reports of Joe's hotel as a convention site — arc you looking for one?) 
JACK DONAHUE'S UCTV address is 8236 W. Center St., 'Xfilwaukce 10, Wisconsin. 
The add?£« of JOHN .\f. GILTINON, attorney In private 'law practice, should prewously have been listed z^Hlt W. Washington St., Chicago, 111. J.\.MES' R?, NOWERY, self-employed, still in Shrcvcport, :.of course, was on the campus for the 1960 graduation of his son, Charles (Dicky) R. ;- Jim adas:5v*bicky did postgraduate work In 1961, .then to ,C.S.C. Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., .August, . 1961 ;(ma>-be a future Pepper O'Donnell or a JoJin-O'Hara)." James B. (older son) is a graduate ,--.in","''gcology, has two years of Army Intelligence ..: scrxnce and Is presently in management training. 
•.•' Daughter Patricia E. (Trishla) is a high school senior. Jim, Sr., weighs a fit 159 lbs. (raw), h:ur thin and tinged with the color of distinction at the edges — slowing ^vay down .. . get that football team a game at Dallas, New Orleans, or Houston." 
>L\URY G. FADELL, 8337 Lake Shore Dr., Gary, Ind., who still operates three pri\"ate em­ployment agencies — and sees all the home foot-
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1961 35 
[jall gam^ — would like lo know what happened 
lo LEO; HUGHES, ADRIAN LOPEZ and J.W 
BURTISC 
ED J:'-FAHE\% assistant to the Northern Divi­
sion Managrr of Norlhwe>tcni Bell Telephone Co. 
kvith headquarters in St, I'aul. will complete thirty 
tears of- service in the Bell Tel. Co. this fall. Rc­
:cntlv ^w- DENNIS DALY, who is practicing law, 
md TOlM C. M.^HON, '28. who represents North­
vestcrn; Mutual Life In*., of Milwaukee. 
GUS; DIETER, 1809 N. WiUard Dr.. Altus, 
Dkla., vis assisting with the supiT\'i!'inn of the 
ronstniction of an Atlas Missile Base for Corps 
)[ Engineers. Son Michael, age 23. graduated 
rrom=Ov-D. in 1960. Stepson TAYLOR WALLNER, 
igc 30, is serving on carrier USS Essex. Gus is 
1 proud grandfather of three. (Gu;.. your secrc­
lary; worked on the .\tlas the summer of 1960 
. .;'. could you use him in the summer of '62?) 
The acting head of the Dept. of Electrical Engi­lee'ring in the absence of HAROLD ELLITHORN [with Hughes Aircraft) is L.\RRY STAUDER, .ccretar>' of the Class of '29. Larr\- lias been resi­ieiit- research associate, particle accelerator divi­lioti. at .Argonne National Laborator\- in Argonnc, [11.; this summer. .\.XDY GORKA, '42. Larr>'s orriier student, is in charge of tlie control group )r ihi- Di\"ision. Larrv-. II. age 17. a senior at St. [oscphV High Scho4iI. is, active in hand and the Jciriicc Club. Larrv-. Sr. is president of the Band Joo«teni Club, while wife Margaret continues as »rrcsponding secret3r>- of the Patrons Club. 
Another 1960 cradiiate of N.D. is PAUL H. 3EN1GER, i:ou of REYNOLD A. DENIGER and xifc' Olive of Beaver Dam. Wis. Reynold is presi­lent of Canners Seed Corp. as well as of Farmers Jtatc Bank, which is now in process of building L new bank with drive-in facilities m the heart of he city. Sim RICHARD DENIGER w^. graduated roni- N.D. in 1934 and daughter Marj' was grad­laled from U. of Wis. in June. There are three ;randchildren. oldest being five vears. 
J.'TH.\D. HEINLEIN, 454 Mohawk Dr., Erie. *a., has been a distributor for Butler Metal BIdgs. incc .1959, after nianaginj; a building supply biisi­icss for ten years. Business has been good and expanding. Last '29er Tliad has seen is HOW'.ARD )OLL:_who stopped in lo see him several years igo. Thad and wife Helen have three daughters: Canc>','7agc 20. student nurse, St. Luke's Hospital, !;ic\-claiid, Ohio; Joan, age 15, a junior at Villa tforta 'High School: Kathleen, age II, in the cventh '• grade at .Andrew's School, Erie. Tliad ind many of the contributors to this issue plan 
o attend the Northwestern football game and the 'lass of.. *29 get-together on the campus immedi­,tcly aft«- the game. More on this party and ither ncv^^ - contributors tn the next issue. 
Tlianks *29crs for an excellent response .. . .nd let us hear from the rest of you. 
'rem the Aliimnt Oflicc: Tlie Denver Catholic Register reported in August hat Justice rALBERT T. FRANZ of the Colorado iupremc Court was spending two weeks in New 'brk as a participant in the sixth annual Appellate udges Seminar. Al, father of three. Is serving an lected lO-ycar term on the Supreme Court bencli, saving previously been elected as District Court lidgc for two .terms. One-time classmate DR. EDW.ARD POST, who iied August 22 in San Diego, was a noted psy­hiatrist and veterans hospital administrator. Sym­lathy to his widow and son. 
1930 
Deverc Plunkctt O'Shaughnessy Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 

MOST REV. VL\CE.VT J. McCAULEY,, aS.C, .•as enthroned during the summer as the first 
•ishop of Fort Portal, Uganda. East -Africa, a jng way from his native Council Bluffs, Iowa. Tlic kpostoUc Delegate to East Africa presided at his istallation. "Father Vince" returned, in the words f Bishop Purslc>-'s consecration sermon, "lo the cene of his labors with nc%v unction of the Holy pirit upon him, with new. powers In his hands, rith new eloquence in his tongue, to continue in 
*6 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1961 
his capacitv the work he has been doing so well." For the slor%- of that work, of FATHERS LEO ZAGORC, BURT SMITH, LOU RINK, TOM FOTUSKY, etc.. and their ad\cntures among the elephants, cn»codiles. witch doctors, classmates can write for a subscription to the Uganda Drum. ^Vashington 17. D.C. BISHOP .McaAULEY*S address, by the way. is P.O. Box 214, Fort Portal, Uganda. Exit .Africa, and that of his Uganda Drummers, if you have the price of a football or a tin roof, is Butiii Catholic Mission, P.O. Butiti, Dist. Toro. Ucanda. East .Africa. 
JAMES C. COSTELLO of Delaware Township, N.j., was promoted .August 19 lo di\-ision super­intendent of the southern division gas department of Public Ser\-ice Electric and Gas Co. Jim started with Public Ser\-ice right after graduation as a cadet engineer, has risen through several engineer­ing and super\-isorv- jobs in Newark. Orange-Montclair, Summit-Morristown. etc. He's a mem­ber of the Jersey N.D. Club, plus several civic and professional organizations. 
1931 
Janics T. Doyle 902 Oakton Street E\*anston, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: GEORGE JACKOBOICE, wife Helen and their boys, in Svritzerland during July, sent a card to the otlice from the famed Hospice du Grand St. Bernard: "Tliis is the place tt> spend July 4. No fireworks but more exciting. AVc stayed here all night because of the fog. Up 8,000 feet and llie road ver\- winding and narrow." 
1932 
James K. CoUins 3336 Kenmorc Road Shaker Heights, Ohio 

FR/\NK DENNEY has resigned from the position of Vice President of Purex Corporation, Ltd., and is now President and Director of Zion Industries of Zion, Illinois. Frank has lived in the San Francisco area for many years but says he again feels right at home to be near his native Chicago. 
JACK H.AMILTON, who has been working all over the ^vo^ld in the last several years, is vci\\\ the ' Chemical Construction Corp. in New York. His new address is 320 Park .Ave., New York 22. 
THE RT. REV. PAUL J. HALLINAN, Bishop of Charleston, was in Cleveland for the eIe\'ation of one of his friends to the Episcopac;>', and visited with many friends here. He is becoming na­tionally famous as a speaker, and particularly for his continued promotion of the Newman Clubs. 
Several members of the Class were at the golf partv of the N.D. Club of Cleveland among them being HUGH BALL, JACK COLLINS, COLMAN O'SHAUGHNESSY with his son, and MIKE CRA^VFORD. \\'c were particularly interested in the stories of HUGH DEVORE about the outstand­ing success of DR. VINNIE \\*HELAN in the medical field. 
Plans for our 30th Reunion next June arc taking shape, and again wc want to urge cvcr^-one to get your dales lined up for it before you arc hit with a deluge of graduations, ordinations, weddings, etc., within your families. Notices giving exact dates will be sent out shortly. 
From the .Alimini Office: 
Nou* that Congressman AValter's hue and cry-has died down, a ^'Spotlight Alumnus" feature is in order for Hon. SAL BONTEMPO, a hard­working civil sen-ant who vastly descr\'cs his recent appointment as administrator of the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs, the State Depart­ment's lop security job. 
1933 
Joseph A. McCabc 2215 Lincoln E\*anston, Illinois 

Dear '33'5: The time is getting closer lor the 30th reunion — even though to most of as it seems like only yesterday that «"e were thirty years old and looking fonrard to the "big 10th," . Tliai's the way time goes , . . which should prove ( that it's by no means too early to start making plans to attend a get-together in June of "63. 
It has been a busy summer, but between ^-aca­tions, business trips, outings and get-togethers neither prex^ JOH.N O'SHAUGHNESSY nor the undersigned have been able to sit down and work up a letter program to the class. 
v\nd I guess that's what it lakes — individual letters to each of you. Without that incentive no one has been moved to write the old secretary-voluntarily. 
However, we did get one ver\- nice and pleas­ingly long letter from JOE DEU'EY of 819 W. Superior St., Alma, Michigan: 
'"My conscience got the better of mc after read­
ing the news of the class of '33 in the March-
April issue of the *'Alumnus." 
"Along with all the other classmates of EDDIE I 
MORIARTY I just want to CCIJO JACK BREEN*S ' 
testimonial of a fine person. 
"Notre Dame has held special significance to mc 
the past few years. My eldest son, John, graduated 
from X.D. this Jmic in the college of .Arts and 
Letters. I have a daughter, Mary EUyn, at Miclii­
gan Slate (preparing herself for a teaching career), 
and the youngest offspring, James Patrick, is in 
.Alma h?gh scliool (with eyes on N.D. in a few 
years). 
'*! hear regularly (every Christmas) from our 
sUvcr-lhatched Latin-teacliing classmate from Chi­
cago, JOHN CUNNEA. The passing years have 
failed to dim the rapier wit (and droll puns) that 
Cunnea exploded with during his *'tender" cam­
pus years. "While I haven't had the chance to 
n'sit with him, AMBROSE "A.MBY" RY/VN is 
a solid citizen of Grand Rapids, Micliigan. 
"You will remember MIKE COYLE, whose dis-( scrtations on nautical rope tying helped pass the night hours in old St. Ed's? Last I heard Mike had moved his center of operations from Ta\N'as City, Micliigan, to Bay City. 
''As I have lived in the hinterlands of Michigan since graduation, operating retail auto supply establishments (all under the expert super\'ision of my fine wife, Sophie) I haven^t had the occa­sion to run into anv of the other depression darbs of '33. 
"Just thought a rc:sponsc from this direction might help the cause, Joe, and give you heart to keep anticipating word from other feeble souls like myself." 
Joe's mention of our late, well-loved class VP EDDY MORIARTY, reminds mc that I heart! again from Ed's great life-long friend. J.ACK BREEX, 182G5 \Vildemerc, Detn>it: 
*'Wc now have one in college (a co-ed at the m University of Detroit, one in high sclio<»l and one " still in grammar school." 
Tliat has been llie mail up until deadline day. And that leads to our . . . 
Ave atque Vole. I have long felt that it was only fair to the class to pass the secretary's stylus along to someone who is better able to give the necessary time to beating the drums for the big 30th reunion (see opening paragraph.) 
Being secretary- has been a wonderful experience and it has prorided mc with unforgettable mem­ories. I hope, too, that some of you out there yonder in classmate land have enjoyed my ramb­lings since I first set up shop (as successor to TIGHE WOODS) in 1W5. 
Needless to say I will do my best with whatever time a\'ailablc to help my successor. 
In regard to said successor, I am sure that John O'S would heartily welcome any and all nominees. Please send suggested names to: JOHN O'SHAUGH-fl NESSY, Globe Oil, 59 E. Van Burcn St., Chicago, Illinois. 
^ Pick up your pen now — send along whatever  ncu-s there is — and above all tell John whose voice you would next like to hear . . . here. Sec you in '63! (Deo VoLcntc.) Best regards to all. Joe ifcCahe.  REDBOSCOfor him  SHE.\, died in and his  '23, reported that July in Dayton, O. family.   JAMES A.  Please pray  at the insistence of the Board of Trustees ani President d^KicvvIct you consented to rem^n a head coacJi for two years beyond the rctircmcn age. As President dc Kicwiet said, 'The Univcrsit IS proud to ha^e a man like Elmer Bumham a  
head  football  CMCII.'  

From the Alumni Office: 
JIM COLLINS, 1932 Sccretar>-. contributes "a note for the *33 Class — Sharon Regan, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Regan, was married on August 12 lo Kenneth L. Kaufman at St. ,-\nn's Cathedral, Great Falls. Montana. Len was in the *33 Class, and Mrs. Regan was Roscniarv Gies, St. Mar>-s '33." 
The July issue of Editor & Publisher reported that GR.\NGER WEIL, publisher of the Port Huron, Mich., Times Herald, has been elected chairman of the Micltigan ^Vssociated Press. 
I 1934 
T. Edward Carey 223 Elmwood Rd. Rocky River 16, Ohio 

Following is a copy of information sent to absent­minded Sccrciar>- ED CAREY bv ROBERT J. Mc-DONOUGH (Lt. Col., USA) iVst January: 
"I thought you and the members of the class would be interested in the enclosed clipping con­cerning TO>f DALTOX (Jersey's paraplegic Judge, March). This piece appeared in the Newark Xcivs on 11 January, 1961. Knowing Tom as wc did, I doubt that his latest honors canie as a great sur­prise to any of us; yet I for one sense a feeling of pride that I was his classmate. 
"I regret that I can give you no information on any other members of the class, except to report 
> that FRANK McCrVNN'S wife recently had a baby, tlicir fifth boy. Tliis is particularly notable, since their oldest boy, Frank Jr., has already been graduated from N.D., is married, and is a father himself. 
"I myself am stationed here at Siena College, near Albany, New York, as Professor of Militar>* Science, and expect to be here until the summer of '62. Tlie college Is operated by the brown Fran­ciscans, and they arc wonderful people. I have as a neighbor a member of tlic class of '47, JACK GALLOWAY, and wc frequently sing the Victory­^(arch over a few drops of libation. Abo, my ROTC band plays the Victory- March at all reviews. In this connection, I have frequently been good naturedly accused of subversive action, 
"I was happy, but not surprised, to learn that JLM MOSCOW is now a Monsignor." I And a September postscript to this oflice: 
"On another subject — at the eight o'clock Mass last Sunday, 10 September, at the Church of St. Pius X in LoudonviUe, New York, the Holy Name Society received Corporate Communion. You will be interested to know that the scr\-ers of the Mass %verc two Notre Dame men. Jack Galloway '47. and I. . . . 
*'I saw Hughie and Madeline Dcvorc in July and thought they both looked fine Please pass on my best to them. And lo you, keep up your mag­nificent work," 
Another testimonial for VINCENT G. Mc-ALOON, the amazing Roman Irishman who guides the Notre Dame Club of the Eternal City as its executive secretary, this time from Clotaire Wood, an executive of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. When Commander .Alan Shepard's Mercury Freedom 7 capsule was shown to more than a million Italians during the summer at the International Science Fair, writes Mr. Wood, "I accompanied the capsule to Rome as a technical representative. . . . Taking advantage of a kind letter of introduction from mv neighbor, W.-VLT SHORT ('39), I called on VINCE McALOON. . . . Arriving at the Alumni Club in the Largo Brancaccio burdened with a number of logistic problems, including finding a satisfactory hotel, I soon found all my problems melting away in Vince's capable hands. Not stopping at these practical problems, Vincc went on to make my stay in Rome a vcr>* pleasant one through his hos­pitality both at the Club and in the pleasant sur­roundings nearby. 
"I prex-ailed on Vince to let U5 take his pic­ture standing alongside the Shcpard capsule and I am sending prints of the photographs to you in the hope that you will find them of sufficient in­terest to use in the ALUMNUS. (See pbc this issue, Ed.) In any event, I assure you that Notre Dame is very fortunate to be represented in Rome by Vince McAloon " 
1935 
Franklyn Hochreiter 702 Scarlet Dr. Towson 4, Afarylantl 

The University of Rochester sent the following citation for outstanding service, awarded to ELMER 
H. BURNHAM, retiring \-arsily football coach and professor emeritus of physical education, by the .Alumni Federation on June 10: 
"The University of Rochester could scarcely believe its good fortune when, in 1943. you decided to abandon the ranks of big time football coaching and come to Rochester as head coach. Your Purdue team of 1943 was undefeated and ci>-winner of the Big Ten Championship. 
"You didn't like the pressures of big time fiM>l­ball, or its recruiting tactics. You believed that boys playing football should do so because they enjoy the game, and not because of any player subsidies, athletic scholarships, free room and board or other devices to attract outstanding athletes. You found the situation at the Universiy of Rochester 'ideal'; you liked football as It is played here. 
"You have remained here for 17 years, the long­est tenure of any coach in Rochester's football histor\% which goes back 72 years. You have resisted invitations from other colleges xvliere the financial lure was more attractive. During your long and immensely successful regime as head coach, you have had a record of 82 wins, 48 losses, and six ties. In 1952 and 1958, your teams were undefeated, the first unbeaten, untied seasons in the University's history, and you had the further distinction of having your teams beat Amherst and Williams for the first time. 
"A shy and modest gentleman, you have been a great credit to the University, to football, and to the Department of Physical Education, where you coached intramural sports and conducted g>'m classes with almost equal enthusiasm as professor of physical education. 
"You have alivays been highly regarded in your own profession, and your colleagues, sports colum­nists and fellow coaches consider you one of the best coaches in the country. It is no wonder that 
*'In lean years and good ones, you alway produced an exciting, wcll-coached team, one tha it u-as a pleasure to watch. That ovenvorket cliche, that competition in football builds character was ^vcll-mcritcd in. your case. As one of you former players, among many who sent you con gratulatory letters and wires on the occasion o the testimonial dinner to you last fall wrote 'Words cannot convey^ a fitting tribute to Mr Burnham, an outstanding coach and an outstandini person.'" "i 
From the Alumni Office: The day after the election that made Repre scntativc WILLIAM EDWARD MILLER the sec ond Catholic to become Republican Nationa Chainnan, the second Notre Dame man to fil that office for a major ^arty in the last two years, and the only man td*; receive two "Spotlight Alumnus" nominations i^, as many years, the Nevt York Times ran a persorality profile on the "Slam-Bang Republican'* that .s'ald in part: "Mr. Sliller is a glib'and dapper man, standing 5 feet 7 Inches tall and.'-'weighting 137 pounds 'io fighting trim.* He is ipartial to Homburg hats, Chesterfield overcoats, d^k blue suits and gleam­ing white shirts irith. French cuffs. "He drinks Scotch, drives a Cadillac and lives In a two-story house, priced in the $60,000 range, that faces the first green of the Kenwood Coun­try Club in Kenwood, ^Md. He also has a home at Olcott, X.Y., a r«brt town beside Lake On­tario." <'­In other words, a typical member of the Class of '35, . ^ BILL MILLER passed through the campus in late September, with Senator Capehart and sev­eral Indiana Republican leaders in tow. He proved to be the dappeci' voluble otizen of the Times profile and much-;'more — *vlity, charming, ruth­less, razor-sharp, in fact, all the qualities demanded of a former prom chairman and star debater. Bill, by the way, set up law practice in Buffalo August I with three other Eastern politicoes, ' The last issue didn't hint at the magnifTtence of the ceremom'es sending FATHER VINCE THII^ MAN off to new parish duties in Watertown, Wis-, after 19-years as the dedicated pastor of South Bend's St. Augustine's (predominantly Negro) Church, and even longer in the arena of commu­nity, service. The party was such as is usually given a \'isitlng chief of state, with a dinner (at­tended by dozens of Protestant and Jewish friends). 
THIRD NATIONAL CHAIRMAN of a major political party picked from NJ>. alumni ranks in recent years. Republican Cbairman William Miller, '35, visited the campus in September as Democratic chairmen (Paul Butler, '27, and the late Frank Walker, *09) have done in the past. Chatting (l.-r.) arc Jim Armstrong, Fr. Thomas O'Donnell, Congressman Miller and Fr. Joyce. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, Novemberj 1961 37 
a confetti shower, and srvcral gifts, including fishing equipment for his relatively quiet ncu­assignment. 
Lastly, the Chicago Tribune's "Front Views & Pro6Ics" column had a very complimcntar>- piece in September on Tynan's Restaurant, 126 W- ^ladt­son, Chicago, a favorite haunt of athletes, law­yers, judges, nijvvspapcrnjcn, etc., became of its men's club atmosphere (women arc also welcome) and hearty food. Tynan's, owned and operated by Greek-Irish classmate GEORGE T^TCAN DE­METRIO, is named after George's Diiblin-born mother and its cuisine and atmosphere arc founded on his natural Grecian know-bow and bis years of experience in tlic Palmer Hou'-e. Harri>on and other Iiostelries and eateries. Attention fat boys: George's chef specializes in roa^t beef, steaks, chops, fish and otlier high-protein. low-fat foods. This dates from George's training table background as football manager, waiter and kilchen helper. Best of all, boys, prices are reasonable. 
1936 
Joseph J. Waldron 70 Black Rock Road Yardley, Pennsyh-ania 

From the Alumni Office: 
J. V- MacDON'ALD, purchasing man for Con­tinental Can in New York City, passed through the campus on a trip witli his son August 23 and asked to be remembered. He claimed membership in '37, although his degree says otherwise, so JOE QUINN please copy. 
THOMAS J. MURPHY was recently appointed processed meats sales manager of Armour and Company's Boston district. Tom bad been assis­tant district manager since 1956 and previously had worked for Armour in Chicago, 111., Troy and Albany, N.Y. 

June 
8-9-10 
1937 
Joseph P. Quinn 
P.O. Box 275 
Lake Lenapc 
Andover, Ne^v' Jersey 

From the Alumni Office: New York's Municipal Court Judge WILLLAM 
S. SHE.-^ dcscr\-es congratulations on the birth of a son, Andrew John, .August 15. weighing in at 6 pounds, 11 ounces. The Sheas have a daughter a.id another son. 
1938 
Bumic Bauer 
1139 Western Avenue 
South Bend 25, Ind. 

All of you who shoived up at the afler-gamc parties at- the South Bend K.C. clubrooms (a new idea for a place for out-of-touTiers to gather after the home football games on Saturday night being tried out by the local N.D. Alumni) can c:cpect to see yoiu" name in the next issue — proridcd you didn't hide from me; in -which case your name will be there, but hidden. 
Visited Cleveland overnight with my wUc Helcnc 
38 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
SOUTH BEND TRUSTEES present for the blessing of the Memorial Library site by Father Hcsburgh included (from left): Oliver C. Carniichacl, Jr., non-alunmus; Jerome J. Crowley, '31; and Bernard J. Voll, '17, apparently conmicnting on 
the mound called Mount Excellence. 
at a Lindsay Soft Water Convention but was unable to sec any 38-ers. even though I wrote several in adx-ancc. Ma\-be that was my mistake. On the phone, however, I had a fine talk with TOM RINI \vho is in the produce business, which gets him up at 3 A.Nt. evcr>- day. He has five cliil­dren: Patricia .Ann. 19; Jac\len, 15; Tom, 12; Tim. 9: and Tcrrv. 3. He asked about old roomies BOB FERNB.ACH, (last known to be in Buffalo). GENE VASLETT (supposedly in Los Angeles) and CHARLEY MAa\LUSO (who moved to Mundc­lein, III., not too long ago). I also bad a pleasant talk with LARRY "HOOK" KERWLN'S wife, who Said Hook was in a hospital at the time for a rest and check-up — nothing serious. .Also talked with JI.M McGETTRICK'S wife. Mar>- Margaret, who said Jim was at the state legislature for his seventh term. Jim finished law at Western Rc­ser\'c in Cleveland and during the war was with the War Manpower Commission. TOM MULLI­GAS sent me a letter saying he was lucky to arrange an out-of-town court case while we were in Cleveland, but to tr>- again. BOB MAZANEC refused to answer the phone and I couldn't find anv numbers listed for PETE SHEEHAN, JOHN KLISE, DICK JENNY or RUSS CALLAHAN. Maybe the Cleveland N.D. club could start a collection for these lads. 
.A letter from Mrs. Ladclle Freedy told of JOHN 
I. "JACK*' FREEDY'S death July 28lh in Chis­holm, Minnesota, his home town. Jack, she s^d, missed the last reunion because he wasn't feeling well but had planned on attending our 25th. Jack took journalism at N.D., along with his buddies NICK (now It. col. in the Air Force reserves) L.AMBERTO and JACK (former South Bend mayor) SCOTT, now vice-president of the Elkhart Truth new!>paper. Jack was an active member of tlie Minnesota club at school. He was long cm-ployed by R. Maturi Corp. of Chishnlm and a member of the Elks and Moose. His cousin, Father William Merhkins. ofiidated at his funeral. 
DON FISHER and YE ALTE SWEDE were again elected directors of the local N.D. Alumni Club in August, but CHARLEY aALL.AH.AN was retired so he can help nte collect more news from youse guys. So tuck notes about yourselves in Charley's pocket when you sec him on trips. His cleaner will sec that I get them. 
Letter from the founding father of this column, HAL WILLLAMS, included a picture of CHUCK BE.ASLEY in the New York Times announcing Chuck's elevation to the prcsidencv' of the Metal and Tiiermit Corporation, w-hich docs detinning and allied work. Chuck has been vice-president and secretary. Congratulations, Chuck! This proves tiiat sitting next to me and JOHNNY BEER for four years in Commerce classes (BAUER, BEA5­LEY, BEER and BOHEN) was not an insur­mountable obstacle to success. 
From the Alumni Office: Commenting on recent honors b«towcd on 
FATHER TED HESBURGH, mentioned in the last issue (honorary- degrees from Columbia and Princeton, prcsidenc\- of the Msn. of .-VmerJcan © Colleges, and appointment as the only trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation who's taken the vow of poverty-), the South Bend Tribune editorialized: "With pride and gratitude we offer congratula­tions to Father Hcsburgh for the honors he has won for himself, for the university he represents and for this community." 
Father Ted Is now on a lound-tbe-world junket including stops in Hawaii, the Philippines, For­mosa, Hong Kong. Pakistan, Lebanon. Rome and Vienna (last slop for the .Atoms-Ior-Peace con­ference), so the Class of '37 is currentlv in con­trol at home in FATHER NED JOYCE.* 
Bell System reported that ED KILR.AIN of In­diana Bell has joined the directors* section as a staff representative in Yellow Pages. A Bell S>-s­tem lifer, Ed had previously served the national Yellow Pages staff on loan from Indiana. Just \J call him "Wolley Segap." Golfer Kilrain. with wife and four children, is locating in metropoli­tan New York. 
Front pager NICK L.AMBERTO, with some kids in tow, dropped by the office during the summer to let us know he was being sent to Europe for six weeks on S.A.C. duty and might be in Berlin when and if the dam busts. The Des Moines Register reporter and sometimes Air Forcr officer, denied a trip to Moscow because of his military connections, would give anything to get in on that story. 
Word has come via mail returned that HENRY HUMPHREY of Dayton, O., is deceased. Any­one with information about the date, circum­stances, or the Humphrey family, please notify the .Alumni Office. 
1939 
James N. Motschall Singcr-Motschall Crp. 10090 West Chicago Detroit 4, Michigan 

From the Alumni Office: EMMETT H. CROWE has been appointed agency manager in Cindnnali, O., by .American United Life Insurance Co. Emmett has been a transplanted Lafayette, Ind., native in Cincinnati ^ for 20 years and has spent about 10 years jn the ^ insurance game, having been an assistant coach at Xavicr and head coach at Cincinnati's Roger 
Bacon High. The Crowes Iiave seven children. 

\ Assodatc Science Dean LARRY BALDINGER noted in the August issue of Southeastern Drug Journal that ALFRED O. KIEFER had donated a poison control center to the Jackson Memorial Hospital, Dade City, Fla. AI operates a prcacrip­tion pharmacy in that city and has been quite active in that area. 
1940 
James G. Brown 144 East 44 th Street 
New York, N. Y. 
The response of our latest scries of question­
naires plus a fe^v notes was practically ovcnvhelm­

, ing . . . well, almost overwhelming. There has 
P been a distinct pick-up in the mail from our '40 group in the past quarter . . . summer heat and ^-acations notwithstanding. Keep up the good work. 
Have both a note and a questionnaire from JACK 0*BRIEN, who is not really missing as previously reported. He is liWng in Philadelphia and works with a former Dodger fan, ED HART, and JACK REDDY for RCA. Jack is contract administrator for the BMEWS (Ballistic Missile Early Warning System). If anything goes wrong with a surprise attack we'll at least know whom to look to. Jack's work has taken him to Thulc, Greenland, and Fairbanks, Alaska. He has three women at home — a wife Catherine and t^vo daughters — and would like to hear from AL KESS­ING, MAURY NOOXAN and JOHN TRAPP. 
Have a reply from WALT DRi\Y, who lives In Davenport, lou'a, and is executive engineer w^tli 

h the Bendix Corp in that city. Walt has eight children, the oldest of whom is a junior at St. Mary*s, and is looking forward to enrolling his son for the class of '66. Walt sees big TOM MC­CARTHY who also lives in Davenport. 
JACK COUGHLIN checks in with some news about himself and a request for some news from BOB BRENNAN and JOE DUNN. Jack is located up in Minot, N.D., and is president of the West-land Oil Co. and the Willlston Basin Gas Co., has two daughters and a son and occasionally gets to N.Y., where he recently saw GREG RICE. 

Have a couple of servicemen cJiccklng in pretty good this trip. First, BOB BE/\UDIXE, who has just completed twenty years with the Na\y, re­tired and now working for the R>-an Electronics Corp. in Coronado, Calif. Bob has five children and a wife, Catherine. For a Long Island boy, 
h Bob is anchoring a long ^vay from home. Speak­ing of California: I sent out about ten question­naires to fellows in California and nothing ever happens. Tliey must all be Republicans and holed up in caves since the election. I purposely avoided DICK LING, GEORGE MEEKER and REX ELLIS because they were ver\- much in cWdence at the reunion. I A^Tinted some of the California crew that we haven't heard from. The Armv checks In \vitU LT. COL. JOHX CICCOLELL.V. Chick is director, B.MEWS, at Air Defense Hq. That makes two men from our class associated with this vital group. Keep your alarm clocks set on time. men. Chick is married and has three children, and because of his extensive travelln.T Is in a position to drop In on almost anyone. Just drop him a note. 
Tlic first week in September around N.Y. was a real scorcher, so as I write this it is good to hear from GEORGE H.\GGERTY, who is gen­
fcral superintendent of the Tampa, Fla., Cold Storage and Warehouse Corp. Makes me feel cool just reading George's note. He and wife Dorothy have three boys and a girl and arc momentarily expecting another addition to the family. George has been active In the Xfarlnc Corps Rcser\'e and was recently ranked as colonel. He sends best wishes to all the Class. 
•We next have some fine correspondence from the clergy: FATHER BILL TOBIN who was just ordained in 1958 in Rome. Father Bill Is with one of the newer orders within the cliurch, ac­tually started by a former C.S.C. priest. Their mission is the care of the sick and infirm priests. Bill recently spent some time in England where he and a fellow priest initiated a house for their apostolatc in that country' and is now back in the Chicago area. The name of the order is Congre­gation of Scr\-ants of the Holy Paraclete and Bill 
>is located at the Chicago House, 815 W. 19th St., Chicago, III. He would like very much to hear from members of the class, earnestly requests your prayers and any other help that >t>u may be in a 
NEIL C. HURLEY, JR., '32 Hurled to Heights, the Hammer of Thor Having appeared in this department 17 years ago, Neil Hurley, now chairman of the board and president of Thor Power Tool Company, Aurora, Illinois, was re­cently profiled in the Chicago Tribune for his second-generation work to make Thor the world's largest manufacturers of air and electric portable power tools. He started with Thor in 1932, adv*anc­ing from sales engineer through adver­
position to render. .Also have a note from FATHER RICHARD LEO F.ALLON', who is assistant pastor at a churcli here In Ossinlng, N.Y. Should be easy for some of the Westchester cronies from high scliool days to stop in and say hello! 
"The Jersey clan was well represented by . . . an old 'skeeter,' AL C-VLLAN, long since trans­planted to the Pacific Northwest, Seattle. He has been there since the war, married a nurse and they have nine children. Al is an attorney and drove back to Chicago with me." Tliese are a few lines from the post-reunion column of 1960. In March of 1961 their tenth child was bom and on ^lay 28 this year, almost a year to the day of our reunion, Al passed away from Hodgklns disease, which he apparently had at the lime and u-as not detected. He underwent massive surgery within the past sL\ months and with the aid of some very new miracle drug he actually made a remark­able rccover>", went home to his family and finally succumbed late in May. I received a long letter from ;\lf's wife Marjorle with all the details. I wish that 5pace would permit the publication of the whole letter as it was a real inspiration. For a young girl with ten children and no husband it Is a gem of real courage, full of pride in her family and her husband. There was not a beef or a moan in eight pages. He apparently. had given the disease a real tussle since the first of the year when it first showed itself. Marjorle writes: "Al had so many friends. The church ^s-as packed with more than 300 people for his funeral. No one ever met death more serenely than ,\I. He was well prepared." Your prayers are requested. TliIs was a real shocker for your correspondent. Alf u-as in our corridor in Alumni and the whole crew used to hang out In our double room, and then last year after the reunion Alf was going up to Milwaukee to see his brother. I was going to a suburb north of Chicago so we drove up together and spent three or four hours together after a lapse of twenty years. 
Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Is the last vestige of uncommerciallzcd horse racing in the U.S. Every 
tising manager, secretary, vice president, executive vice president, until becoming president on March 8, 1944, to succeed his father, the late Neil C. Hiirley, who v/as made chairman of the board: at that time. A resident of River Forest, Illinois, Neil 
was married to the former Mary Ruth 
Fairman on June 23, 1934. They have 
three children: Mrs. George Gfroerer, 
bom April 29, 1936; Mrs. Lawrence G. 
Martin, bom August 31, 1938; and Molly, 
bom August 12, 1940. 
Neil is a member of the Advisory Coun­cil for Notre Dame's College of Commerce: director of Newman Foundation, Northern Ilh'nois University, DeKalb, Illinois; direc­tor, St Joseph's Hospital, Chicago; and is on the Advisory Board, Department of Con-ser\'ation. State of Illinois. He is director of Catholic Charities and is a member of the Lay Advisory Board of Marillac House-He holds memberships in the Chicago Ath­letic Association, Chicago Golf Club, Oak Park Country Club, Tavem Club, Mid .America Club, Lo>'al Order of Moose, and Knights of Columbus. He is founder of the Thor Research Center for Better Farm Living near Huntley, Illinois. The non­profit educational enterprise promotes the study and development of modem tech­niques to aid the farmer. 
A noted world traveler, Neil has circled the globe visiting Thor's world-wide net­work of distributors and subsidiaries. Thorns main offices and a manufacturing plant are located in Aurora, where the company was founded in 1893. Other plants are in Los Angeles, California; LaGrange Park, Illi­nois; Chicago, Illinois; Cicero, Illinois; and Cincinnati, Ohio. Thor overseas subsidiaries include Thor Tools, Ltd., Newcastle, Eng­land, and FIAP (Fabbrica Italiana Ap­parecchi Pneimiatici) in Turin. Italy. 
year since school — except the war years — EDGAR DOUGHERTY and I used to meet there. Edgar is from nearby Canojoharle. I ^vas there the first week in August and looked all over the paddock for Ed. Shortly thereafter I received a note from the Alumni office which mentioned that Edgar had passed away in May of this year. No further details. I don't think Ed was married. 
Returned questionnaires department: ED NEALE, BILL KENNEDY, BOB O'NEILL, JACK DOER. -MER, BRYAN COLEMAN, FRED STUBBINS. 
All returned for correct address. Let's hear from 
From the Alumni Office: 
JUAN CINTROX, back from Brazil for vaca­tion this summer, has written to a lot of class­mates and friends on behalf of BROTHER P.\UL SCH.-\EFF£R, CS.C , and his projected "GInasio Notre Dame de Campinas." Juan wrote: 
"Brazil, the nation with the largest Catholic population In the world, is plagued ^vlth lack of religious knowledge and lack of education general­ly. Knowledge of the Catholic religion Is nil among the very poor and those educated In secular schools. Tliis weakness of religious knowledge, coupled with poverty and other factors, has left Brazil open to secularism, spiritism, voodooism (ma­cmnba}, and, needless to say, communism. Cog­nizant of these facts the Holy Father has asked the superiors of the religious communities to ex­pand their work In Brazil and has asked the local Bishops to help build up the ratio of priests: presently ONE per 6,000 faithful. 
**Answcring this appeal, in 1951 the CS.C. Brothers sent four missionaries to the 'Green Hell* region of the Amazon as a sacrifice to God for more vocations. Today eleven Brothers and ten lay teachers operate a school and a religious House of Formation in Santarem, Para, 400 miles inland from Belem and 200 miles belmv the Equator, for 450 boys — too poor to pay their way and at least 50 of whom must be housed and fed. Since ob-
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 39 
viously these arc non-sclf-supporllng projects, the working capital and operational expenses (amount­ing to over 5150,000 during the ten years) has been supplied by the Brothers in the States from their own funds and from gifts of students attend­ing their American scliools." 
Ticking off the benefits of a new school at Campinas and its \-arious needs. Juan asks for help (his address, C.P. 421, Campinas, Sao Paulo, BrasU) and ends with a note on himself: "I ne­glected to tell you tliat for the past three years I have been manager of purchase for Bcndix do Brasil Equlpamentos para Autovetculos, S/A, in Campinas, and am now enjoying my first home leave (over by printing time). We manufacture brakes for the automotive industry* in Brasil in a ver\* modem factory where Bendix has a 510 million investment. My son Juan is a sophomore at Notre Dame and my oldest daughter Linda just finished high school and is headed for St. Mar>''s. Anita, the baby, is going to seventh grade. She is only 
II. If you ever go to Brasil, do not hesitate to call on us." 
Infiltration continues \vith JOSEPH C. O'CON­NELL being named associate business manager at Xcw York University and business manager of NYU's Bronx campus. University Heights, includ­ing accounting, physical plant, purchasing, person­nel administration, dormitories, food ser\']ce and bookstore, for the Colleges of .Arts and Science and Engineering. Since 1954 Joe had served as business manager for Manhattan's Hunter College, where lie also lectured In accounting. For the previous decade he had been an admitttstratlve ofiicer for the U.S. Government, helping administer the Xurcmburg ^\'a^ Crimes Trials and the Berlin Airlift. He now lives at 183 Harding Road, Glen Rock, X.J. 
Dean ROBERT E. SULLIVAN of the Scliool of Law at Montana State University, Missoula, had to postpone a planned visit to the campus during tlie summer since he and wife Eleanor were ex­pecting an eighth addition to the Sullivan family in August. Bob %vas second recipient of the CiarroU College Borromco Award, presented to a person who has displayed outstanding zeal, couragc» and dc^'otion in one or more activities that cliaracterize the achievements of patron St. Charles Borromeo. At Montana State since 1934 and law dean since 1955, Bob Iiad previously practiced law in Ohio, ser\'ed willi the Veterans Administration and an Air Force major in W.W. II. 
Pray for ALFRED CALL-AX of Seattle, attorney. father of 10 children, the oldest of whom is 15 years old. He died on May 28 according to a letter from his widow Marjorie. A\ was present at the 20th annivcrsar>* reunion of the Class in 1960. Hodgkins disease, discovered In January- 1961, was the cause of death. Several Indications of almost miraculous recovery- proved to be only temporary-. Pray also for W. EDGAR DOUGH­ERTY, JR., whose mother reported his death June 5 in Canajoharic, X.Y. 
1941 
James F. Spellman 7 East 42nd Street New York 17, N. Y. 
Mission accomplished — well done, Rcunionites!!! 

Your secretary (apparently for another five years, since nobody voted me out) had to go on active duty immediately upon return from the wonderful 20tli get-together; so he is only now getting around to his report. 
Tlicre were 99 of our class in attendance; let's call it 1(X), since I'm sure somebody forgot to sign bis name. It is my sincere Iiopc that wc can double that number for our 25th. What a won­derful way to demonstrate our love for Xotrc Dame; and at the same time renew priceless friend­ships that last as long as wc do. 
In your noisy session at O'Shaughnessy Hall (remember?) where yours truly lost his voice, somebody, I think BILL G.\RVEY^ made a motion that the dass initiate dues for cacli of the next five years at five dollars per year, and what's more somebody else seconded the motion, and you, dear boys, approved by a voice vote. So, in the near future, when you have been able to re­coup what you went tlirough in travel and other 
40 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November^ 1961 
FATHER JOSEPH GALLAGHER, '44 (seated), newly ordained as a Paulist priest, was {eted at the New York Athletic Club on the eve of his first Solemn Mass by classmates 
(I.-r.) Bill O^Connor, Vincent Duncan, Vic Kimmcll, Frank Brady, 
and John Duffy in May of this year. 
costs to attend that clam bake, you will cacli re­ceive a memo for said dues. Now, if all goes well, our Class Fund should swell to an appre­ciable amount by the June of 1966. In the mean­time, I shall attempt to keep you reasonably cur­rent as to the actlx^ties of our classmates. How­ever, my efforts will be of no ax-ail unless you write and Inform me of your own doings, and whatever you can dig up about others you meet and write to, 
Tlie ALUM.VUS has already (or xvill have by the lime this gets to print) published the names of those who were present at the Reunion. For posterity-, your secrelar>- had you sign near your photo in the '41 DOME. Those who were at the 15th also signed; and by the use of different col­ored ink, your scribe can distinguish between Re­unions. Next one should be signed in silver, but they ain't no such animal- Til have snide remarks in my next letter about the June affair, because I need more time to compose these missiles. Takes genius, you know!! 
I promised you a financial report, and here it is. The pre-reunlon gifts plus the money contributed at the reunion totaled 5*75. Out of this your secretary- paid $80.55 for various expenses con­nected with the catering job, such as excess cost of the food itself, gratuities, and miscellaneous, and spirits. I am sure you will agree that the arrangements made by Messrs. JIM TIXNEY and JOE C/\LL/\H.AN were superb. That midnight chicken was all the doctor ordered. You can be sure we shall repeat conic 1966. Wc have, tliere­forc. a cash balance of S394.45 right now. The account is officially "CLASS OF '41," University of Notre Dame, care of me at 7 East 42nd St., New York 17, N.Y. So in all future contributions, dues, or whatever, make your check out to "CL.-\SS OF '41." Your president. DICK O'CONNOR, and your treasurer, JOHN Maca\ULEY, have the official right to sign cliecks, as does your sec­retai->-. For tlie time being, the fund can stay in New York City. Subject to your wishes, any future decision of the Board (whicli is to he formed as soon as I can find time to breathe) will determine tlie use to whicli the Fund shall be put. My reference to a board steins from one of two resolutions passed by the class, described as follows: establishment of a Board of Directors, motioned by DAN DAHILL, and seconded by BILL GAR\^EY. Approved by voice vote; annual dues of ^ motioned by BILL GARVEY, and scc­oned by BOB ZUBRAS. Approved unanimously by voice vote. 
By this time, your \mtcr had lost his voice, so the meeting ^*"as properly adjourned — wot 
o 

else?!! We shall try to organize a Board which will be representative of all sections of the coun­try-. Tills will be more or less arbitrarily selected, so if your name is published, please do all within your power to stimulate interest In the next re­union; and what's equally important, the day-to­day activities of the University in Its endeavors. .\ftcr all, it is our beloved Alma Mater-
Now to some bits of news which I have accu­mulated for a long time. D.ANXY D.\HILL is a member of the West Virginia Senate, and a candi­date for U.S. Congress from the Fourth District next year. He Is a practicing attorney, and travels a lot. (A number one appointee to tlie Board, \J Mr. Dahill!!). Danny lost his lovely wife about nine years ago, but lias two wonderful daughters to help fill the void. Keep in touch, please. Sena­tor. GENE DELAY, whom I met in Fort Lewis in 1942, regretted he could not be at our 20th; suggest prayers for our deceased members, a won­derful idea. PAUL DeLAY is a Navy Commander, In J.-\G, stationed on Guam. Gene sends greetings to NOEL .MacQARRY, RED STEVENS and -MIL-LuARD ED.MONDS. He doesn't state wiiat he Is doing, but he can be reached at 62 Sheridan Road, Oakland, California. 
TOM CONNOR, who attended our I5th. ctmld not make the 20tli; but he was there in spirit, and emphasizes he will be at the 25th. Thanks for the check, Tom. 
We missed HOWIE KORTH, but he, too, was there in spirit. I must here insert an article about Howie which appeared in the Sunday Register of / ^ September 25, 1960. "A 5100,000 750-srat g>in-^^ naslum, now under construction. Is being donated to the Christopher Columbus High SCIHKII in Miami, Fla., by HOWARD KORTH of Coral Gables. A native of Bay City, Mich., the donor is a former Xotrc Dame tackle and now president of an airline. He is a past chairman of the Diocese of Miami Development Fund. 
"According to Brother Benedict Henr>', principal of the scliool, the gift ts the largest single dona-lion ever given to the Mariast Brothers in more than 30 years." If memor\- scrx'cs me correctly, Howie's airline Is AAXICO, a freight carrier line, I believe Howie had told me several years ago, tliat his equipment consisted of appro:cImately 32 C-45's. I used to hitch rides on a C-46 over on Okinawa. Now, now, James, no reminiscing!! Thanks to BILL MORREY for the article. Any­way, Hutch, wc sure missed seeing you. Bill g\ Morrej-'s son. Bill Jr., tvas selected for a Xatlonal ^^ Science Foundation Grant to attend a special sum­mer course in math at Xotrc Dame. This grant has as Its purpose the dexclopmcnt of a high sdiool 
^ student with an aptitude for math and science sub­jects. A singular honor, ST., and we're mighty proud. Bill Jr. is an aspirant for X.D., maN-fae he is already there, as these news items arc old'.! A June, 1961, note from FR.ANK McDONOUGH in Pompano Beach, Fla., expressed regret at not being able to be with us on the reunion. Frank also conveys best wishes from DICK WHELAN and FRANK CAREY. Your scribe met Dick in Ft. Lauderdale in 1958, where he Is a law partner in Fleming, O'Brian &. Fleming, Dick made a remakabic rccover>- from polio, and althougli con­fined to a wheelchair, is a practicing attorney. I believe both Franks are in real estate. After tour­ing Pompano Beacli, I'd like a little real estate down that way myscKI! Tliosc bo\-s in Florida hold a shindig each year sometime in April or May and they really have a convention. Maybe yours truly will attend one when he is again in 
-^ Florida. 
# CHARLEY GREENE, from .\kron, wrote me in May, this year, to say he would be unable to make it in June. However, he was fortunate to have been at the 15tli. His oldest daughter gradu­ated from high school right about reunion time, so he wanted to be home, nalch. In addition, the Greenes have a sixth child, Patricia, born January 14th, 19GI. Sec you in '66, Chas. I have a note which says that BOB SWEENEY is with the Hughes Aircraft Company in L.A. He lives in North Hollywood, Calif. Confirm, please, Robert. A business card given to me by AL PERRINE shows MICHAEL J. KEEG.\N, District Manager "3," King Merritt 5: Company, Inc, Biltmorc Inn BIdg., 5000 Normandalc Road, Minneapolis 24, Minn., an investment funds business. 
JIM MCCARTH Y is comptroller with Tallman, Robbins & Co., in Chicago. Jim had a most diffi­cult operation performed, and is coming along 
A nicely, as you may have noticed at the reunion. Our prayers are with you, Jim. for a most com­plete recovery'. GEORGE B. FAZZI is sales repre­sentative for Blackburn International Corp.. New York City. How about a ring. George, MU 2-0498? Here is an old item I humbly apologize for being late on, but Vm going to go ahead and take my lumps, anvwav. Dateline on this welcome letter is October 20, 1959, that's right. 1959. JI.M ME/VNEY, from Corpus Christ!, Texas, is the writer. I had trouble about that time, Jim. and your letter got sidetracked. Jim was then begin­ning the practice of psychiatry, after 12 years in school, and aUo going through the \-arious stages of internship, private practice in Kenosha, Wise, and then on to Indiana U. Medical Center in Indianapolis. Was married in 1954 and had three little girls at that time- Jim — can we count on you in 1966? Keep in touch. If you think I'm 
• 
late on Jim's letter, I discovered a card from CHUCK FARRELL dated December, 1958. Can that be right. Chuck?? It sure must be, as it is a Christmas card. Tliank you. Chuck and Marion and Charley, Paul, Billy, Mar>-, Ellen. Kevin. Shauna, Kathleen and Sally Thercse'.! How about that!! Nine wonderful children (and that was almost three years ago!) At that time, Cliuck was teaching social studies at Phoenix (.Ariz.) Union High School, plus some night school work for adults. In addition, he operated a batting range on weekends. Had five automatic pitching ma­chines. Wish I could have one here so as I could get some exercise other than shoveling snow and cutting grass. 

One paragraph for memoriam. ELMER J. KxVM.M'S father died .Nov. 1. 1960, the father of M.ATHEW PAYNE, in April, 1961. Our class­mate EUSEBIO S. ASPIAZU died November 7, 

• 
1960. EUGENE P. TOOUV-V. also our classmate, died Jan. 25, 1958. and the mother of CHARLES CRIM.MINS, on November 12, 1960. May they rest in eternal peace. You see the reason that I ask you men of '41 to keep In touch with me. Some of these notices I receive several years after our classmate has gone. 


A final windup item. LOU MacKENZIE sends mc an article about the class of '41. but not N.D., rather of Princeton. That class of '41 presented a gilt of $576,000 for a new dormitory. Do you think we can do as good?? 
That's all for now. Will you write to me with all the news you can dig up? I'll have dues forms printed up for mailing as soon as I can get around to it — it the Air Force doesn't get to me first. 
May God be with you. Your obedient secretarv-. 

 From the Alumni Office: A new type of dock which is at least ten times as accurate as the best conventional chronometer 
ROBERT F. HOLTZ, '38 Even for Brass Capital, a 'Big Noise' 

In Elkhart, Indiana, known as the band instrument center of the Americas long before the advent of the house trailer, Bob Holtz has an unusually literal claim to that glittering accolade, "top brass." After 15 years in the Brazen City with a manu­facturer of trumpets, tubas, and trombones. Bob became vice-president and treasurer last year of Elkhart Brass Mfg. Co., lead­ing manufacturer of hose fittings and other fire department supplies. 
A native of Huntington, Ind., Bob was a Glee Clubber and (naturally enough) 
has been developed at the Gencrai Electric Research Laboratorj". The clock in its piesent form gains or loses only five seconds a year, and even better performance may be obtained if desired. The device is small and nigged, and operates for about four months on a single size D mercnry battery (about the size of a standard flashlight cell). The new clock, ivhich was developed by ROBERT L. MAT­TERS, operates on an entirely different principle from that of an ordinary dock. Its timing stand­ard is 3 quartz crystal, which produces very stable electrical vibrations at a high fretpiency. 
1942 
Waiiam M. Hickey 3333 West 47th Place Chicago 32, Illinois 

BILL AL\DDEN has a job many of us might emy. In the summer he runs his Frances Brewster 
dnun major of the N.D. Band among many campus activities, . clerking suinnicrs at Elkhart's Martin Band Instrument Co., where his dad wras president. After gradu­ation he was a cost accountant for South Bend's American Electric Power Co.,.leav­ing in 1941 for five years' W. W. II serv­ice in the Quartermaster Corps. Mustered out as a captain in 1946, he rejoined Martin Band Instrument as a cost account­ant, served successively as chief accountant, comptroller, and treasurer until 1960. Since fliigelhoms and fire hose nozzles use 
the same shiny metal, it was an easy move to Elkhart Brass (whose president, incident­ally, is R. G. "Pete" Ashbaugh, '48, W. W. II and N.D. football ace). 
Literally a "big noise" in Musictown (he still plays tuba in the Elkhart Municipal Band as trustee and past president). Bob makes himself heard in professional, civic, religious, and alumni affairs; he's active in the Elkhart Chamber of Commerce; formerly national director and Michigari Chapter president of the National .Assn. of .Accountants; active with the K. of C.,-' Elks, and Elcona Country Club; a charter member of St. Thomas Parish (1950) and its men's choir, first Holy Name president^ division chairman of a $350,000 building fund drive and now coasting as Parents' Club president, .Athletic .Assn. secretary-treasurer, and Boy Scouts institutional rep; finally but far from least, organizer and first president of the Elkhart N.D. Club, and now city chairman for the N.D. Foundation (co-chairman: Pete Ashbaugh). 
In 1943 Bob married .Alice Hood of Misha^vaka. Best news of 1961 came in March when the Holtzes filed an eighth little exemption bom last December 30. Now four girls (aged 17, 11, 9, 10 months) and four boys (15, 13, 7, 2) certify Bob Holtz as an accountant with plenty of "brass." 
Shop (ladies clothing) in Lake Placid, and then as soon as the cold weather comes he moves to Florida to run the Frances Brewster Shops in Florida. He lives in West Palm Beach, but they have stores la Palm Beach, Fort Lauderdale and Miami Beach. Bill and TOM WALKER went to Las Vegas from Florida and had a nice visit with MIKE HINES who told them he is planning to attend our 20th Year Reunion next June. 
Incidentally, TOM WALKER is a candidate for the national .-Mumni Board of Directors, and I know you'll all want to vote for him. 
Most of you remember that grand guy DOX McXALLY who was killed in a P-51 in Europe. His younger brother Tom was ordained this sum­mer as a C.S.C. By coincidence, one of Don's good friends, JIM McXULTTl*, had the privilege of watcliing young Jim .McXulty ser\e at Tom Mc­Nally*s first Mass. 
From the .Alumni Office: FRANK E. GIBSON, new mayor of Freehold, X.J., told the Asbur>- Park Press that he finds public life an outlet and diversion from the pres­sures of business. Frank operates a large plumbing and heating business with his father and two brothers. Appointed to Sll an unexpired term, he had to resign a long-time membership on the Board of Education, having served as president for seven years. Hc^s Republican candidate to stuxeed him­self as mayor this fall, feels personally compelled to continue his predecessor's good government. . \ 
W.W. II vet (seaman to lieutenant), he's a Fourth Degree Knight of Columbus and former Grand Knight, an active Elk, Optomtst and Rotarian. Frank and his wife Beatrice have six children. 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1961 41 
1943 
Jack AV^ggins 5125 Briggs Avenue La Crescenta, Calif. 

A note dclivci-td to Uic office on Sept. 20 said: "It is ivilh a licaw heart that I inform you of the recent death of mv husband, EDWARD CHARLES RYAX. .. . Ed suffered a heart at­tack on August II and died within minutes after receiving tlic Holy Sacrament of Extreme Unction. He w-as 39 years old and is survived by four chil­dren: Ed, Jr., age H; Doiuia, age 13; Marianne, age 11; and Xanc>', age 9; also his parents, Dr. and Mrs. ED RYAX, '16, tliree sisters and a broth­er. Ed was president of Ryan Pliarmacj", Inc., a member of the K. of C , Elks, etc I trust his fel­low alumni will remember him in their prayers. ... " Ed's widow, Mrs. Mar>- Simpson R\-an, lives at 2078 West Hopkins Place, Chicago 20, 111. 
From the Alumni Office: 
As the new semester started F.VTHER GEORGE fiERXARD must have heaved a sigh of relief lo know that RATHER CH.-\RLES .McaARR-AGHER had succeeded him as the University's vice-president for student affairs. Congratulations to Father George on his new assignment as superior at Holy Cross College, Washington, D.C. 
1944 
George Bariscillo, Jr. 416 Burlington Ave. Bradley Beach, N.J. 

We know all of our Class will rejoice in the news released from the Vatican rcccnllv that FATHER -MARK G. McGRATH, C.S.C., has been named Auxiliary Bishop of PanainX Bisbop­clect McGrath has been dean of the faculty of sacred theolog>' at the Catholic University of Chile in Santiago, He was ordained in Panama City on June 7, 1949, and celebrated his first Solemn Mass five days later in the parish cimrch of liis cliildhood, St. Mary's in Balboa. After con­tinuing his studies in Rome and Paris for four years, he was assigned in 1953 to St. George's College, Santiago, teaching there iiiitil his assign­ment in 1959 to the Catholic University of Chile. I am sure the newly elected Bishop would be happy to hear from some of his classmates, and I know he has the prayerful best wishes of all of us. 
Elsewhere in this issue will be found a photo of the new Paulist member of our ranks, FATHER JOSEPH GALLAGHER, who was ordained by Cardinal Spellman on Mav 1st. BILL O'COX­XOR, VIXCEX"r DUXa\X, FRAX K BRADY, JOHX DUFFY, JOE POXS and VIC KLM.MELL had dinner with FATHER GALLAGHER at the Xew York Athletic Club the evening before bis first Solemn Mass at the Churcli of Our Lady of Victory. TIic grxjup, along with JACK WHITELY, attended Father Joe's Mass the next a.m. 
HANK ADAM has iiliecked in uith his always-welcome interim report. Hank is now living in Parkcrsburg, West \^rginia, where he was trans­ferred by Du Pont a couple years ago. He is super­intendent of the "Teflon" plastic manufacturing plant in Parkcrsburg. He and his wife visited with the JOHX MORRISON'S last fall on Long Island. John is with Republic A\iation. Hank also reports seeing tlic RED FAG/VXS when thc>' were living in ^^'ilmi^gton. He also sees FRED E.ARLEY, who Is practicing law in Parkcrsburg. 
Another lauycr-mcmbcr of our '44 contingent. JOSEPH F. GALL, who u'as formerly Assistant to the Attorney General of Xew Hampshire and a special agent with the F.B.I., is now in the gen­eral practice of law in Xashua, Xew Hampshire. 
We had a nice telephone \*isit with Class *'prcxy," JOHN LYNCH, when he was in New York rc­
42 Notre Dame Alumnus, November^ 2961 
cently on business with McGraw-Hill Publishing Co. His contact in McGraw-Hill was TED WEBER, who is presently editor of their employee weekly, McGraw-Hill Ne^w Bulletin. While visiting ^^^th Ted in New York, they telephoned BILL BOSS, who is heading the RCA color division in Camden, and who reported seeing TOM BREN­NAN during one of Tom's jaunts to the metropoli­tan area from Texas. During the L>Tich New York "business" trip, John lunched with BOB REYNOLDS of the editorial staff of American Heritage. He also took time to check on HARRY YEATES, who resigned from R. H. Donnelly in early June to become associate editor of Gcyer­^^cAllistc^ Publications. The latter outfit pub­lishes three trade magazines. Administrative Man­agement, Geyer's Dealer Topics and Gift & .\rt Buyer. 
Lynch, who somehow manages to see more *44crs in making his \*arious rounds than most of us do over the course of several years, also x-xsited with the HAL HALEYS at the CHUCK PATTERSONS recently. Hal is an ^LD. in Chi­cago, and on one of his Xew York visits received a guided tour of Greenwicli Village by night with BILL TALBOT, who is still with Samuel French Co. in Xew York. When John is commuting to Xew York, he often runs across ANDY McELROY, 'who is also a regular commuter. 
Once again your secretary resorts to the familiar wail for more nc%vs for the next column. Won't you please take a few moments now to drop me a line about yourself, your family, other '44ers you may sec or hear from, and thereby help me in funneling news to our classmates through this periodic column. 
From tlte Alumni Office: 
Secretary GEORGE BARISCILLO has probably noted it elsewhere, but JOSEPH F. GALL, former assistant to the X'cw Hampshire attome>* general and special agent of the F.B.I., has become asso­ciated with the firm of X^clson, Winer and Lynch, 
JAMES J. McFADDEN, '42 Bang on the Docks, Bing at the Opera 
Labor crises from New York dock strikes to the troubles of Rudolf Bing at the Metropolitan Opera have spotlighted the burdens of Jim McFaddcn. First Deputy Commissioner of the New York City De­partment of Labor, Jim has been active in the field of labor relations in one capacity or another since his graduation v/ith* an .^.B. Degree, in political science. In his 
Clifford and Xashua, X''ew Hampshire, in the gen­eral practice of law. 
A picture of FATHER JOSEPH GALLAGHER, ^ C^.P., and classmates on the eve of Ins First Solemn Mass appears in this issue. A story in the Brooklyn Tablet catalogued Father Joe's war rec­ord as a landing craft officer and veteran of nearly ever^' amphibious landing in the Pacific 
1945 
Frank M. Linehan 29 Burr Drive Dalton, Massachusetts 

It seems the summer months and vacations have taken their toll, for our correspondence has come almost to a complete halt. There are many of our classmates who have not responded to our notes throughout the year requesting some news about themselves. Let's start '62 by sending in some newsbits so your classmates will know what is going on. 
Congratulations to JOHN R. RYJVN of Ilibbing, Minnesota, who made the Million Dollar Round Table of the National Association of Life Under­writers, for this and his being awarded life mem­bership in the Honor Table of the President's Club of the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company. Tliis is the highest honor a Connecti­cut General field sales representative can receive, g It is conferred upon only those members of the ^ President's Club who have made an outstanding 
present post, to which he \vas appointed in 
1954, he is in complete charge of the 
mediation scr\'ices of the department. 
Jim's duties include the assignment and direction of staff mediators to labor disputes of teamsters and stevedores, actors and musicians in the nation's largest city. Through progress reports and personal con­ferences he is in constant touch with the progress of mediations where impasses de-­vclop or where circumstances require he " takes personal charge of mediation sessions. Jim also ser\*cs as chairman of the Mayor's Committee on Exploitation of Workers; this committee ivas established in 1957 by New York's Mayor Robert F. Wagner to assist workers (usually members of minor­ity groups) who were exploited or dis­criminated against by unscrupulous unions or employers. 
An officer and director of several non­profit housing co-operatives sponsored by the Credit Union Movement (involved in the construction of over 6,000 apartments), Jim is at the present time a member of the ^ National Panel of Arbitrators of the .Amer­ican Arbitration Association; ser\-es as labor director for the New York State Democratic Committee (during the 1960 presidential campaign he directed the labor campaign for John F. Kennedy in New York State); and is a former examiner for the National Labor Relations Board and a former nation­al representative of the Textile Workers Union of .'\mcrica. 
Jim, a native of Altoona, Pa., married Helen Nieters of Denver, Colo., in 1944. His wife is a graduate of Loretto Heights College, Denver, and Catholic University, Washington, D.C. They have five children ^ and reside at 715 Ladd Road, New York 71, N. Y. 
contribution to society througli profissiunal service 
^ to clients. 
^ JOHN E. FALLAT cliccks In from New Or­leans where lie is a salesman for Oucns-III. Glass Company. John and his wife, Marj- Kay, (U. of Louisville '48), have three sons: John, 6; Sonnan, 5; and Mike, 4. 
I received a lovely note from SISTER MARY CONSILIA, RSM, Si- Francis College, Chicago, thanking us for our mentioning her nephew's (MIKE GANEY, '46) untimely death in our column, ifay his soul Rest In Peace. 
AH of us, like to "put on the dog" once in awhile. In the June, '61, issue, I mentioned that I had lived in St. Ed's. This is the truth but some of my hall mates were quite upset that I didn't gix'e the exact location in St. Ed's — the -Annex, of course. It was a real great crew — BOB HOLLENaxMP, GEORGE KEEN.VN, GENE DEx\N, JOHN DOCKWEILER, JOHN Mc­
, CARTHY, BILL MURR^VY and all the others. 
W Many memories run through your mind about your residence halls but one of the best in St. Ed's was the missing button for the bell. 
Our ex-secretary is still iu there giving his all — now president of the N.D. Club of New York — congratulations and best wishes, .Al. 
*'The World's Largest Trout Ranch." the Snake River Troul Company in Bull. Idaho, is the thriving enterprise of BOB ERKINS. Bol>, after scrxing his hitch in the Na\y, went Into the hotel business and then in 1952 look over the Snake River Trout Company. The trout farm consists of 53 concrete ponds and \Vater racewa>-s. During ihc spring peak. Bob has seven million rainbows crowding his ponds. His total crop in 1939 rose to 1,400,000 pounds of live trout. Bob and his *'farm" were written up in the March, '60, issue of Readers Digest. 
Our genial class treasurer, JIM DONNELLY, 

d reports (9-8-61) that 46 of our classmates have acknowledged his request of July for dues. Our Congrats to JIM CLYNES, ex-class president, and H;\NK PAYNE who were the first in with their checks. Others who have sent in their $5.00 are: ED BALL, TOM BERGIN, JOHN BRESNAHAN, JULES a\mE , DON CISLE, DON CLAEYS, JIM CLYNES, BOB CRONIN, BILL D.WIS, GEORGE DESPOT, JIM DONNELLY, OWEN DOYLE, BOB ERKiSS, ED FAUST, FR/\NK FITZGIBBONS, BOB GROSKI, JOHN GUTH­RIE, JOE HAGGAR, JIM HINES, JOHN H05­BEIN, JACK KE.\RNEY, CHARLES LESLIE, Fa.VNK LINEHAN, DICK MARTLN% JOHN McGR^VNE, DAVE MURPHY, JIM O'CONNOR, HENRY PA\'NE, BOB PHILPOTT, AN*THONY PIZZ.\RELLI, BILL RAWLINS, xVNTHONY RENGE, JIM RETTER, JOHN CARON, JOHN 
^ RINELLA, BOB RIORDAN, L.\RRY RO^L\­
' GOSA, BILL ROSANELLI, LEO RUOF, HARRY ROMAGOSA, BILL ROSANELLI, LEO RUOF, HARRY RYAN, JOHN RYAN, DICK SADOW­ESKI, CHARLES SCHWINN, EMMET SHEE­RAN, BRYCE SMITH, and HARRY \VALTERS. 
Jim would appreciate all other members of our 

W. LESLIE RADDATZ, '33, fornter head of the West Coast press department for N.B.C., has been researcher for the TV show "It Could Be You" since its 
I inception five years ago. Here Les (right) plots a show with 
M.C Bill Leyden, actress Carol Lynlcy. 
BERNARD BOWLING, '44, mayor of St. Matthews, Ky., and nine little Bowlings 
(Bernard, Jr., Kathy, Ted, Michael, Patrick, Barbara, Alice, Danny, and Tiramy) seem to approve of the tenth arrival, Mary Ann, held by Mrs. Bowlini; in this Louisville Courier-Journal photo. 
clas3 sending in their dues as soon as possible. During my \-acation I visited with JIM MOLI-
With the collections being as good as they are, Jim DOR and his family in New Providence, Ne" 
and his wife, Mar>- Lou, plan to take in the Duke Jersey. It was llie first time I met up with Jin 
game. in fifteen years and he looks as young as ever. 
Our class participation for 1960 in the Founda­In conclusion, please be advised. Class of '46. 
tion: 128 contributors out of a possible 346; 37% that I would like to hear from you and also 1 
which is 2.5% below the low general average. Wc hope many more of you will plan to attend the 
contributed 57,120.00 which averages out to be 20th Reunion because I know It will be a mem­
ju.'it about the alumni average. orable occasion. It was a bit disappointing to see 
Let's boost our participation rate way over 37% so few at the 15th Reunion, especially with all 
this year. those who live in nearby cities and yet did not 
attend. 
From the Alumm Office; 
There mav be a dispute shaping up between 

From the Alumni Otfice: Secretary- FR.\NK LINEH/VN and Iim's GEORGE 
Congratulations to DR. ERNEST G. BROCK O.-VRISCILLO over rights to Notre Dame's young­
(Ph.D. '51), appointed manager of the Quantum est Bishop, .MOST REV. .MARK GREGORY Mc-
Physics Laboratory for General Dynamics/Electron­GRATH, Titular Bishop of Cerici and Auxiliary­
ics' Research Division. Ernie joined the division Bishop in his native Panama. His Excellency has 
about tlirec years ago and has been a principal long been visibly identified with the Class of '44 
scientist in the Basic Science Lab. Previously he but received his A.B. in 1945. He's the son of the 
was a researcher for General Electric and Linfield late John F. McCrath. who \%-as employed as an 
Rcscardt Institute. A member of several profes­engineer in the Canal Zone at the time of his 
sional societies, he lives at 7 Ross Briwk Drive, birth. Ordained in Panama City in 1949, he went 
Penficld, N.Y. 
to Chile in 1953 to teach at St. George's College, Santiago, went to the Catholic University of Chile in 1959 and has served since as dean of the faculty of sacred theologj*. 
1946 
Peter P. Richiski 6 Robin Place Old Greenwich, Conn. 
1947 

(Ed. .Vote: Introducing PETE RICHISKI, who finally agreed to spell busy Califorian JACK 
Jack Miles 

TENGE in this corner, with the forbearance of 
ED MIES2KOWSKI and JOHN McGUIRE. 3218 Bentley Lane 
Please help him. j . L.) South Bend, Indiana 
While attending the I5th Class Reunion it was nice to renew acquaintances with tlie following classmates: DL\.MOND "NICK" CO.M.MISA, .\'ew­ark. New Jersey; FR/VNCIS L. FOSS, Puerto Rico; HENRY B. SURKAMP, St. Louis, Missouri; JOHN P. McGUIRE, Flushing, New York; ED­WARD T. MIESZKOWSKI, Glen Ellyn, Illinois; REUNIO.V COU.\TDOWN STEVE NE.METH, South Bend, Indiana; BRUNO Assuming this column gets around to being pub­OPEU\, Chicago, Illinois; REV. GLENN R. lished in December, the reunion countdown by BOAR.MAN% C.S.C., Notre Dame, Indiana; BER­months has reached *'6" in its backward approach NARD "BARNEY" SL.VTER, /\mes, lou-a; RICH-to the crua'al dates in June. .VRD "DICK" WHITE, St. Louis, .Missouri; KER-By now you have received the revised class roster .MIT "FRENCHIE" ROUSSEVE, South Bend, In­as an aid to contacting particular pals to be sure diana; DR. DAVID MrVSSA, Mansfield, Ohio; DR. they'll be with us lor the 15-year festivities. Use it WALTER G. SELAKOVICH, Little Rock, Arkan­well. Also you have received the first of several sas; and CARL F. !w\REY, Detroit, Michigan. planned mailings intended to drum up interest to 
i hope I haven't omitted anyone as I had to a crescendo pitch come June and to determine make the Ibt from niemor>*. from time to time the numbers and identities of 
It was also good to see "CHICK" MAGGIOLI probable returnees. again. Wc spent a few evenings with "Chick** at Come to think of it, this conclave should be his prosperous looking restaurant in Mishawaka, labeled a "rcYOUnlon," for to be successful it Indiana. must have YOU participating In it. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, NovembcTj 1961 43 
ALL IN FUN(D) 

All alumni Join in saluting JIM ARMSTRONG, ^25, on his election as president of tlic national Sroup of alumni secretaries; the irrepressible Mr. 
A. is the best possible representative of Our Lady's scltool . . . and alert to the possibility of endowment, gift, bequest, and other largesse; e.g., Iicarkcn to this recent colloquy between him and your secretary-: 
Seeking to get in an early bid for a suitable Iicadquartcrs during our reunion, I asked, "What hall are you going to give us in '62?" 
With characteristic twinkle of eye, he shot back, *'Let mc rather ask you: AXTiat hall arc YOU joing to give US in 1962!" 
EXOTIC EPISTLES 

Seems we never receive much domestic mail .. . the correspondence at hand this month all carries foreign postage. 
Un tarjcta postal dalclincd Caracas, Venezuela, <ou]d have but one author—S.A.M ADELO. Tlic indefatigable Yanqui writes: "Am back in South America for the fourth time this year. Guess T 
•could be labeled an 'expatriate'. . . . Have mucho legal work to do here and in Colombia before returning to the Slates. . . ." 
Because the column this quarter is so short, I am going to excerpt at some length from a pair of letters written by BROTHER IVAX DOLAN, G.S.C., who has relumed to Pakistan for at least another scvcn-ycar stretch. He has changed loca­tions to Biroidakuni High Scliool, P.O. Haluaghat, Dist. Mx-mcnsingh, East Pakistan. 
Under date of July 16. he reports: "Had a nice trip back, spending several days in Rome at the Brothers' International School there and haunt­ing the Notre Dame Club headquarters in the center of Rome. VINCE McALOON is a \von­
<lerful host. Ran Into several other N.D. men who 
•were
 passing through Rome; thc>' too were taking 

•advantage
 of the wonderful facilities and senice prorided by \'ince. 


"For tlic present I am in the nortliem part of •our mission tcrritor\* as headmaster of our only lii^i sclioo] among the Garos. an aboriginal tribe. .. . One of my main Jobs is to put up a two story <u:ment and brick sclioolhousc. Of course, I have to be my o*vn mason, carpenter, and all. .. . 
•Since I arrived here two weeks ago we Iiave seen the sun vcr>' little. Rain, monsoon rain, day and night. All of my work on the new building has come to a halt and I sit here and mold. Every­thing gets covered with mold, clothes won't drv­•out, paper gets so damp that when one writes on it it is like writing on blotting paper. When the GFs were in this area during the war they used to call it the 'green hell' . . ." 
.August 20; "Evcr\' buck counts a great deal over here. With a ten spot I can pay a day-laborer for a whole month, or I can feed and edu­cate a boy for a month, or I can pay a carpenter or a mason for 10 da\-3' work. . . . 
"My boxes and trunks were shipped from the States around mid-May. The hist I heard of them, tho" were dumped off at Colombo, Ceylon, because tlie ship that was carrying them decided not to come as far as East Pakistan. Great! Noiv I %rill be luck>' If I get the boxes before Christmas. And most of my tools are in those boxes. .-Viiyhow, it will make for a nice Chrisunas. I remember some years ago I had some boxes shipped from the States; I got them a year and a lialf later. 
"The rains continue. The people started cutting their rice a couple of weeks ago. Now most of tlie rice has gone bad on tliem. .. . I am afraid that many of my students will have to drop out of school for lack of money now. . . . My netv school building is at a standstill as far as actual con­struction work Is concerned. .. . I have several hundred bags of cement stored away; hope it doesn't go hard on me before the rains let up. . . . 
*'DON KERSTEN sent me a nice clicck the other day. I hear from him quiic frequently . . . every best wish to one and all. . . ." 
RANDO.M JOTTINGS 

Servicemen are in the news for varying reasons this issue: CAPT. J.ACK HYXES has returned from overseas to the Grand Forks AFB in North Dakota (still an N.D. man, that Celt!); MAJOR JOHN LAUCK has been transferred from the NROTC unit at Brown University to an FPO address with the 3rd Marine Division; AL\JOR JACK ALEXANDER has taken command of the Air Force ROTC contingent at MIT; and two lads are for' the nonce unlocatable: CAPT. BILL LEAVEY, last known to be at Fort Eustis, Va.; and JIM MUSSELMAN, most recently aboard the 
44 Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1961 
ANTHONY F. EARLEY, '47 Barley Boll Weevil Gets the Cottcm Goods 
In June Tony Earlcy was appointed executive \-ice-prcsident of Leslie, Catlin & Co., Inc., an affiliate of Burlington Indus­tries and other cotton goods manufacturers. 
Tony, a vice-president of the company since October, 1957, joined Leslie, Catlin in March, 1955 in a sales capacit>'. Prior to that he was associated with Pope & Earley, textile brokers, for eight years. 
He now inins sales meetings for L-C with the same drive he displayed as a cheerleader in pep sessions of the Forties. 
Originally a member of the class of '45, Tony was displaced to 1947 by World War II, in which he ser\ed as a sea-going offi­cer in the U.S. Naxy. Back ashore, he has sen-ed as president of the N.D. Club of New York and hard-working chairman of the New York area's top-rated admis­sions interview committee. New York's Notre Dame-Man of the Year in 1956, he has been a steady contributor to the Foundation, making generous use of Bur­lington's matching gift plan. 
Leslie, Catlin, one of the nation's largest cotton grcige goods selling organizations, representing the B. I. Cotton Mills Divi­sion of Burlington Industries, Washington Mills Co. and Arista Mills Co. has sales and merchandising headquarters at 1430 Broadway, New York City. 
USS Midway in the Pacific. If any of you knoH*s the whereabouts of the latter two, let us know. 
The Midwest has lost two pillars to opposite coasts: JOHN AURTIN has trekked from Wabash, Ind., to Modesto, Calif., and AL STANCZYK from Niles, Midi., to Fairfield, Conn. 
And DR. LUIS GALVEZ has migrated from Quito, Ecuador, to the decidedly non-Latin city of Winona, Minn. 
In keeping with the international flavor of this column, JOHN LILL, \-ice-prcsident of Port Wayne Tool, Die & Engineering, left in September for a five-week junket to Europe, including West Ger­many and paarhaps West Berlin. 
NEW ADDRESSES . . . .. . are recorded for BOB ROSE, NORB NEF­FINGER. JACQUES ROUSSEAU, RAY FEETS, JOHN PAINTER, BILL NELLIG.AN, NORM KIRST, ALVIN FEUER, ED NOOXAN, JIM ABBOTT, MIKE CUTT, DON BLASE, BRAD M.ANNING, and BOB TEWKSBURV. 
GOODBYE MC.MLXI, HELLO MCMLXII 
Another year has flown past with the speed of 
jets, and all of us are a year nearer eternity; on 
that subject. Class Treasurer JOE SHARP reminds 
me the Mass Fund could stand pumping up. 
Wc hope '61 was a happy and good year for all 
of you. and we wish all of you and all of yours 
a holy Christmas season and, in the \ww year, the 
choicest blessings Our Lord sees fit to shower 
upon you. 
.And let us all. as sons of Notre Dame du Lac, 
pray harder than ever that peace reigns in the 
hearts of more and more men throughout the world ­
so that soon a just and lasting—If not permanent V 
— world peace can be merited and finally realized. 
From the .Mumni Office: 
At the risk of some repetition, Congrats to the 
following: BERNARD E. GOTTA, JR., represent­
ing Massacliusetts Mutual Life in Fort Wayne, 
Ind., named to the 1961 roster of the N.A.L.U. 
Million Dollar Round Table (also appeal and rally 
co-chairman for the N.D. Foundation); JAMES 
EDMUND MURPHY, elected a member of the 
Public Relations Society of America, having flacked 
for N.D. about ten years; WILLOUGHBY M. 
MARSHALL, who has taken his first vows as a 
candidate for priesthood in the Congregation of 
Holy Cross; and ANGELO BERTELLI of Clifton, 
N.J., who is the public address s>-stcm for N.Y. 
Titan home football games in the Polo Grounds 
and was cliairman of "FRANK TRIPUCKA ('49) 
Day" for the Titans' home opener against the ^ 
Denver Broncos on Sept. 24. 
JOHN LILL, vice-president of Fort Wayne Tool, Die & Engineering Co., left in September for a five-week business junket to Europe, Including West Germany. 
1948 
John Dcfant 
George A. Fflaum, 
Publisher, Inc. 
38 West Fifth Street 
Dayton 2, Ohio 

From the Alumni Office: 
Secretar\- JOHN DEFANT has confessed to dere­
liction of duty and promised to mend his ways in M 
the best tradition of the Chinese People's Republic. ' 
Come next issue you'll sec his smiling face gracing 
this corner, and 1962 will be the Year of the Bull, 
i.e., the prose dished out in four large portions by 
the mountaineer publisher, who Is also ser\ing as 
secrctan.- of the Notre Dame Club of Dayton, O. 
DOMINIC MOFFO of Miclilgan City, Ind., has been named controller of the Heath Company. Dom came to Heath two years ago • as assistant controller from the Gardcx Corp., Michigan City. PrcWously he was with the Internal Revenue Scr\-ice as an Investigator. Tlie Moffos have five cliildren. 
Tlie State University of Iowa announced that C. JAMES STYERS was awarded an M.S. in the summer commencement. Jim already had a bach­elor's in marketing and a master's from Notre Dame. 
A Doctor of Philosophy in Education was granted at the N.D. summer commencement to LEO MARK ^ ZUCKOWSKY, formerly a swimming instructor at M 
N.D. and ' teacher In South Bend's Washington High, now a resident of King of Prussia, Penn­syK^inia. Zcke's dissertation was written on "Tlie Efficieno" of SCAT and Other Selected Variables in Predicting Success in the Various Lower Division College Curricula." 
The Class has finally received a long overdue recognition from the Kcnnedv administration. President JOHN F. KENNEDY (LL.D. *50) has nominated a Law Sdiool classmate, JOHN E. COSGROVE, as assistant director of the Office of Ciril and Defense Mobilization. John was assistant director of education for the AFL-CIO before re­criring the OCDM appointment in August. He sensed as education director of the former Iowa State Federation of Labor before becoming assistant education director of the former American Fed­eration of Labor. He became assistant director of education for the combined AFL-CIO at the time ^ of the organizations' merger. John and his wife Kay have eight children. 
1949 
John Walker Wayne, Illinois 

To the Alumni Office from CHARLES CARROLL CARTER: 
"I have seen several men in our Class in recent da>-s and thought you might like to pxss it on. To bring you to date on myself, from Notre Dame I uent to the American University in Washington. 
JkD.C . where I received my master degree in busi­ness administration; at present I am in the Gradu­ate School of Business at the University of Pitts­burgh in the doctoral program. I am married to Roscmar>' Casey of Pittsburgh and am with a company here that manufactures heavy macliincr>* and replacement parts for steel mill equipment, the largest contract machining company in Pitts­bnrch. 
"WILLIAM A. *BILL' DURKLV had dinner u'ith us a few weeks ago. He's with Walsh Con­struction Company, 711 Third Ave.. New York 17. 
N. y . Travels a great deal for them and is one of their project and proposal engineers. Tells me he has seen BILL H.-\RRISON and hears from NED HESS. 
"While in Detroit last week I had dinner witli 

J. O. LOOK and his wife Gerr>- Gerry lias the 
brains J. O. would like to have; she has a mas­
^ter' s in education. Their two children, of course, 
"ar c ver\' precocious besides being bright. I also visited with TOM VERBEIST, who's good at giv­ing a helping hand to anyone from out-of-town. 
"While at Ford Motor spent some lime with PETE KERN^VN, who is doing an excellent job for them in llieir college recniiting office. Pete is helping to form 'the new Ford image* Later that same day I talked to PETER AHRENS, who was home in Detroit for the first time in six years. He's with Motors Holding Corp.. a GM sub­sidiary- as the Number One Boy in Dallas. Pete has now five cliildren, they were on their way fishing in Northern Michigan." 
From the Alumni Office: 
Congratulations to FATHER JIM SHILTS, C.S.C., for his Ph.D. in physics at the N.D. sum­mer commencement. Father Jim has been teaching 
^i n the physics department for quite a few years (his dad WALTER SHILTS is a prof in civil engineering), and he is presently rector of Zahm Hall. 
.Also graduated with an M..-\. In education was BROTHER JUST PACZESNY, C.S.C., of South Bend's St. Joe High. 
Quarterback FRANK TRIPUCKA of the Denver Broncos jn the .\merican Football League was honored with a "Frank Tripucka Day'* when the Broncs visited the Polo Grounds to meet the N.Y. Titans September 24. Frank, a Bloomficid, N.J., bov, was feted bv a group headed by his N.D. predecessor, ANGELO BERTELLI, '47. 
FRANK E. SULLIVAN, president of the United Fund of St. Joseph County, Indiana, was also appointed chairman of the solicitor training pro­gram for the 1952 U.F. "Crusade of Hope." 
Svmpathy to the family of grad school classmate ^CORNELIUS PRINSEN, who died last year in Silver City, New Mexico. 
IAN L. LANDRY b now supervisor of supply and distribution for the Southwestern Region with Gulf Oil Corp., Houston, Tex. The Landrjs have five children. 
DR. GEORGE E. MAHA has been named staff phv-sician, Health Center and McKinley Hospital, and associate professor of hygiene at the U. of Illinois, Champaign, III. A native of Elgin, George has practiced and taught in Detroit, St. Louis, etc., plus Duke, Indiana, St. Louis, Indiana and North­western Universities. 
PHILIP D. SHEA. JR., West Nyack, N.Y., is now an architectural representative for Philip Carey Mfg. Company, Cincinnati, O. 
Finally, G. ROGER C.\HANEY has been made a \ice-president of Sterling Movies U.S..-V.. educa­tional and public ser\-icc film producers. He*s been 
^u'ith the Catholic Press Assn., General Electric, 
Pand Fuller, Smith & Ross Advertising .-Vgencj-. Roger and wife Myra live in Farmingdale, Long Island, with four children. 
1950 
Richard F. Hahn 47 Emerson Rd. Glen Rock, N. J. 

From the Alumni Office: FR/\NK SPANIEL, a former varsity football Hash who later played professionally with the Washing­ton Redskins and Baltimore Colts, has made a name in industry, having been promoted to general super­intendent of the Penco Division. Alan Wood Steel Co. Frank joined Alan Wood in 1957 following employment with Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co. as an industrial engineer. With a son and two daughters. Frank and Kathryn live in Plymouth Meeting. Pa. 
L. EDWARD DUGAN is an industrial sales rep in New York City for Formica Corp.. subsidiary nf American Cyananiid. With Ilic company since graduation, Ed has been with the indtLstrial products division in South Bend. 
.Vcademic news releases announce that RICHARD 
H. SOISSON has an M.--\. from Western Michigan University. Kalamazoo. Mich., and thai ANDREW 
E. FOLEY hxs a Master of Education degree from the University of South Dakota. 
New manager of the plant engineering depart­ment at Ford Motor Compauv's Dearborn Stamp­ing Plant is JOHN Z. MACHINCHICK, formerly superintendent of maintenance. 
R.\LPH HOLMES has left the field of profes­sional scouting for the Boy Scouts of .-Vmerica and has returned to teaching in Muskegon, Mich. He and Rosemarie live at 1473 Hansen St.. .Muskegon, Mich., having moxed from Superior. Wis. 
ROBERT H. .MICHAUD, who picked up an 
LL.B. in '51, has been appointed divisional attor­ney for the Bendix Products Division of the Bendix Corp. Previously attorney for the Bendi'x Mislia­waka Division, Bob will also ser\'e as counsel for Bendlx-Filter. Lakeshore. Marshall-Ecltpsc and Zenith Carburetor Divisions. 
TIMOTHY H. HANR^VH.VN has been appointed associate manager of the .-\tlas Project Office of Flight Test Operations. Space Technology Labora­tories. Inc. Tim had been ser\-ing in the .-Xtlas Project Office as a propulsion engineer. For seven years he had been with U.S. Army Ordnance at White Sands. N.M., working on Nike. Corporal and Redstone missiles. Tim and his wife Pat live in Eau Gallic, Fla.. with four children. 
1951 
Robert Klingenbcrger 2634 Marcy Lane Ft. Wayne, Indiana 

The reunion was a big success, but many class­mates were missed. .A telegram received at reunion lime from BILL HOGAN (28 Park Rd.. Wheel­ing, W. Va.) which may sum up the feelings and situation of many classmates: 
•'Gentlemen: Got as far as Pittsburgh last eve­ning where the airlines couldn't get together with the weather. Probably look like the rest of you 
— 20 pounds heavier, driving a wagon full of dogs and kids and the girl I took to the Ball. With best regards and standing invitation to anyone coming our way." 
.Also at the reunion the following class officers uerc elected: President, JAMES C. HENNESSY, .^552 Ramona. Louisville 5. Kv.; Vice-President. .North, P.ATRICK J. BARRETT, M.D., 3801 Nicollet Ave.. Minneapolis 9. Minn.; Vice-Presi­dent, East. WILLIAM A. WHITESIDE, 1401 "Wal­nut St.. Philadelphia 2. Pa.; Vice-President. South, LOUIS A. REICH, .M.D., P.O. Box 6607, Birming­ham 10. Ala ; Vice-President, West, WALTER T. .MCGOVERN; 721 .Appleberr.- Dr., San Rafael. Calif.; Treasurer, D.\NIEL R. CONNELL, 411 Odd Fellows BIdg., South Bend, Ind. 
WALT McGOVERN was the only elected officer not present, and he has been contacted. The pur­pose of area \-ice-presidents is to: 1) create class activity in his area, and 2) gather information on classmates residing in his area, in order to develop more class news and continuing class allegiance. You will be getting letters from them soon. D.-W CONNELL collected better than $150 for the Class 
Treasury' and any further contributions are wel­
come. 
Some News: JACK MURPHY (5665 Jackson Dr., 
La Mesa. Calif.) and his wife Joanne announced 
the birth of Suzanne Maureen on July 10. She 
joins Patrick, age 354 and Peggy, age I. 
JOHN MOORE and his wife, Pat, announced 
the birth of John Edward. Ill on May 27. The 
first. 
WALT TURNER (2455 W. 79th St., Chicago 5, 
III.) was married to Linda J. Paini of Miami, Fla. 
on June 24. Congratulations and best wishes. 
JIM GILLIS (ne%v address: 1717 N. Highland 
Ave., Suite 604. Hollywood, Calif.) was transferred 
from Washington to HolIy\%'ood with the Telc\Tsion 
Code Review Board of the National .Association of 
Broadcasters. 
FATHER B.ASIL BURKHART attended summer 
school at Fordham University in New York from 
July 3 to August II. 
Your pra%*ers would be appreciated for the fol­lowing deceased: BILL WHITESIDE'S father, Mr. William A. Whiteside: JI.M NORTON'S moth­er; PAT McATEER'S father. .Mr. Joseph P. Mc­.Ateer; FRANK BELSITO'S father. Mr. Samuel F. Belsito; LEO CORBO, who died on March 7, 1959: and JOE GALLOW.AVS father, Mr. Frank Gallo­wav. on August 2. 1961. 
To JACK JANOWSKI, editor of NOTRE DAME, from FATHER BASIL (VERN) BURKHART, O.S.B. 
".After the 10 year reunion Tm more proud than ever of the Class of '51. Our holding the all-time record for reunion turnout and the successful careers and charming families of so many old chums are among the causes for joy. By the way. did you know wc now have ten priests from among us with at least two more in the seminary? 
"The sketch is \%"here I've worked for the past five years, a minor scminar>' (high school and junior college). Our enrollment is around 250 be­ing educated for a half dozen midwest dioceses. One of 16 priests comprising the faculty, I teach science (somehow a consequence of my starting out in engineering back in '47 - '48 before switching to philosophy). I like it and feel challenged to give the boys a first rate course. I just finished a summer session in physics at Fordham sponsored by Uncle Sam. Another alumnus. Fr. D.AMIAN (jOE) PARKER, '52, is also here teaching Latin and religion." 
From the .Alumni Office: On the academic front: ROBERT HOW.ARD THOMPSON of Buriingame. Calif., got an M.S. in mathematics at the N.D. summer commence­ment; THEODORE N. FERDINAND of Mt. Pleasant. Mich., has joined the faculty of North­eastern U., Boston, Mass., as an assistant professor of sociology; and THOM.AS L. MEYER„ JR., has a master of medical science degree from Ohio State. Svmpathv to the widow and family of THOMAS .MYERS, who died August 29 in Los Angeles, Cali­fornia. A Korean Na\y vet, Tom had been work­ing as a program analyst for .Aerospace Corp. of Los Angeles. Sun'i\ing are his widow Karen, daughters Sheleagh and Dana, his mother and sister. 
1952 
Harry L. Bucb 600 Board of Trade Bldg. Wlieding.W.Va. 

BILL GORXLAN is presently with the National Cash Resister Company, located in New York City. GEORGE GLASER is associated with Ampex Computers Products Company, San Francisco, Calir. JOHN MINCH is associated with the He»­littc Packart Co. in Palo .Alto, Calif. 
TOM DIGAN, fonnerly working with Interna-
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 45 
tional Business ^[acIuncs, is presently attending Har\"ard Uni\-crsity working for a master's degree, courtesy. IBM, DOX PE^VRSOX is president of Computcx, a data processing corporation, located in New York City. LT. JAMES K. HAMEL re­ceived his master's from the Xaval Post Graduate School in Monterey. He is serving as Ship Super­intendent of nuclear submarines and listing his new address as MINS, Code 325-A, Vallc^-, Calif. 
AS TO CHANGE OF ADDRESS: GEORGE EDWARD McXUL'n' lists his present address as 360 S. Howard, Rosellc, III. ELMER FRAXCIS LAM)EX, JR., presently resides at 183 River­side Drive, Xorthficld. III.; KOICHI PAULO FRAXCISCO FUXAB.ASHI, formerly at the Nan-7-an Univcnity. Xagox-a. Japan, may be addressed c/o Mr. S. Yoncmotn. .Akasaka Sliinsahamachi -8 Minatahu, Tokyo. Japan. 
C.\rr. WILLIAM JOSEPH DOXELxVX, HI, formerlv of Greenwood. Miss., may be found c/o Class 1821/3121 BI, Sheppard Tedi. Ing. CTR. Shcppard AFB. Texas. WILLIAM KAMM/VX HAYDEX, III, leaps from \^rginia to 1713G Brush. Detroit 3. Midugan. .\nd WILLL\M JOSEPH LEO COXYXGH.AM, leaves Wilkes-Barre, Pa., for Box 20, Manhattanvillc College of the Sacred Heart, Purchase, New York. 
THOMAS A. YOXCH.\K, presently resides at 170M Cambridge Drive, Cleveland 30, Ohio. From Granada Hills. Calif., moves CARL FRAXCIS B.\CHLE, JR., to 103* South Wisner, Jackson, Michigan. LOUIS HARDEX MEECE resides at 202 Ashland Road. Louisville. Kentucky. GLEXX 
A. Y.ATUXI, presently of 349 East 49th Street. Xcw York 17, X.Y., finds it difTercnt than Gardner, III. 
From Des Mojncs. Iowa, comes the news that FILVXK L. McGIXX was married July 1st. 1961. to Elizabeth .Anne Rosenberry in the Log Cabin Chapel on the Campus at Xotre Dame. Tlicy will make their home in Pompano Beach, Florida. 
THAT'S IT FOR NOW. KEEP THE XEWS COMING to HARRY L. BUCH, GOO Board of Trade Building. Wheeling. West XHrginia. 
From the -Mumm Office: LOUIS J. POLNLAX, JR., son of a veteran X.D. employee, has been appointed superintendent of construction for the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. Indiana Harbor Works, Lou, his wife Betty and four children (Nancy, 8; Linda, 6; Patti, 5; Louis III, 2) have moved to Griffith. Ind. He has been employed as a ciril engineer for the Illinois Dixision of Highways and as draftsman and project manager for a Youngstown-affiliated construction firm. 
JOSEPH F. DeVLIEGHER has received the Holy Cross habit and entered the Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn. 
GERALD R. FITZGERALD of Milwaukee, Wis., got an M.S. in bioIog>- at the N.D. summer com­mencement. 
ROBERT R. J.AY has been named manager of product marketing of the transistor division of Sprague Electric Co., North Adams, Mass. Bob went to Sprague from G.E., where he was district sales manager in the Long Island, X.Y., area. With an M,B..A. from Harvard Business School. Bob has been a lieutenant with the Xa\y Civil Engineering Corps. A native Deiroitcr. he's mar­ried to the former Tay .Ann Timm of Lansinc, Mich. 
BILL CUDDY has became a full member of Close, Griffiths, McCarthy & Gaynor, N.Y.G. and White Plains. 
Tlic Chicago Trib's RUDY UXGER sent in a sheaf of clippings from Chicago papers on the city*s celebrated police scandals, successfully prosecuted by his classmate, .Assistant Stale's Attorney LOUIS GARIPPO, who itpcnt long hours researching the case for the prosecuting team. Rudy also re­minded us of the work on dty payroll scandals that won the Trib's Scott^Bcck award for outstand­ing reporting for TOM POWERS, '42. 
A former classmate, W. RAYMOND MAXX, has switched from assistant professor of psydiology at Assumption University of Windsor, Canada, to director of guidance at Canisim College, Buffalo, 
X.Y. Ray and Mrs. Mann have five diildren. 
Baltimore's JLM MUTSCHELLER has not onK started another season with the Colts, but Joined the President's Club for outstanding 5er\-icc with National Life Insurance Co. and was ax^-ardcd a trip to the firm's .\ugust educational conference in Honolulu, Hawaii. 
Finally, a Ph.D. coed from summer school, 
4€ Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1961 
VINCE McALOON, '34 (right), alumni factotwn in Rome, is congratulated by National Aeronautics and Space Administra­tion official Clotatre Wood for his part in exhibiting Major Alan Shcpard*s "Freedom 7" capsule in an Italian Scientific exposi­tion during the summer. 
SISTER M. aAROLYX*, has been appointed ex­ecutive vice-president of Mercyhurst College, Erie, Pa, 
1953 
David A. McElvain 2328 Alexander Terr. Homeivood, Illinois 
As I sit down to compose this issue's message to the free world, I find that the supply of corre­spondence from and about the class for the past three montlis has slowed to a viaual halt. Per­haps the long summer months are responsible for 

HIS EMINENCE JAMES F. CARDINAL McINTYRE, LL.D. '53, blesses a marble statue of Our Lady in dedication ceremonies at Hollywood's new Family Theater. Founder Rev. Patrick Peyton, C.S.C, '37, looks on in satisfaction. 
the acute silence; in any case a desperate appeal is herewith registered for all men of '53 to respond A to the needs of the faltering class column. ^ 
A yodel just in from Switzerland translates to the news that BOB McCOY is the resident attorney in ZuricJi for Dow Chemical International. He and his wife have four little mountain climbers. GERRY KEELEY is in the commercial department at the Continental Illinois Xational Bank in Chi­cago. JIM MCCARTHY is in the production de­partment with Rand McXally & Co. in Chicago, and his occupational talents have been c-^hibited on the home front as well. James Kevin. Michael Shawn & Mark Patrick (twins), and Erin Joy represent the production to date at the McCarthy's home. 
Without question DICK McBRIDE holds the distinction of biggest Daddy of '53. Dick efTort­lesslv clothes, feeds, educates, and guides a modest family of eleven cliildrcn, and in his spare time is a research chemist with E. I. duPont in Buffalo, ^L 
JACK MURRAY is an .Attorney in Knox. In­diana, and has two children. JOHN McCORMICK is busily constructing new roads in the Erie, Pa. area. Five children provide his incentive to cover the stale with concrete. John Ls planning a long­distance get together at the X.D.-Xa\y game with JACK BAKER from Boston and DICK HERR­MANN from Amarillo. 
Received a note from ANDY W.ALSH recently whicli furnished some \velconic news about his ac­tivities. Andy received his Ia%v degree from Notre Dame in 1955, and thrct- days later married the former Mar>- Manion of St. Mary*s. After a tour with the Air Force he joined Haskins & Sells in St. Louis, and last year was transferred to a posi­tion in the Tax Department of their New York ofRcc. Andy is a C.P.A. as well as a member of the Bar, and to round out his professional quali­fications is pursuing an MB.\ degree at X.Y.U. ^ night school. The Walshes are acquiring a home ^ in Middlctown, N.J. to house their two girls and 3 boy. 
A note from Fort Lauderdale informs us that DICK BAKER has his own .Architectural office there, and is immensely enjoying the Florida sun­shine. Dick and his wife have two daughters. 

Tliat's the news for now, brief though it may be. Tlianks to those who have written; hope it will serve as an inspiration to the rest of you. Best regards. 
From the Alumni Office: DR. ALFRED ^\'. MARKS has sent a profes­sional card announcing a new practice in internal medicine at 1745 Merrick Avenue, North Merrick, 
N.Y. ^ Latter-day scliolars include: DON.\LD SENICH,!* with an M.S. in civil engineering from Iowa State Univcrsitv of Science and Tcclmology; REV. LcROY EDW.ARD CLEMENTICH, C.S.C., with an M.A. in liturg>- from N.D.; and BROTHER JOHN 
NAMES BENESH, C.S.C., from Akron, O,, with an M.S. in math from Alma Mater. 
Orcliids to DON CARBONE, planning officer for OCDM, for his Win. A. Jump Memorial Founda­tion citation for outstanding service in the field of public administration. The award, among the high­est for a federal employee, was merited by Don's work on the National Plan tor Civil Defense and Defense Mobilization, a blueprint for defense action \ by industry', government and the citizenry in the event of a «'ar emergency. Don works in national headquarters and lives in Washington, D.C. 
JOHN >V, STOEPLER was graduated magna cum laude u-ith the highest average in his class at thc ^ 
U. of Toledo Law Scliol last June. He was award-W ed a Sterling Fellowship to continue at Yale Uni­versity to%v-ard a master's degree and eventual doc­torate in jurisprudence. John was one ot ciglit selected from 200 applicants. He's married to the former Kathcrinc Brien of South Bend, and he's the son of ROBERT H. STOEPLER, '28, and the nephcxv of AMBROSE M. STOEPLER, '31. 
CHARLES J. BILLERBECK has been promoted to project cliemical engineering in the technical scm'ce ditnsion at .American Oil Company's Whit­ing, Ind., refinery. He has an M.S. from M.I.T. A native of Fteeport, III., he lives in Chicago Heights, 111., with wife Margaret and three chil­dren, Karl, John and Marie. 
DONALD K. DOHINI is now a sales engineer for Acme Industries, Inc., an air conditioning manufacturer, in the Miami, Fla., area. Don, a former Coast Guard lieutenant now active in the , Boy Scouts, lives witli his \rife and two children in ^ Fort Lauderdale, \vhcrc he's a member of the N.D. 
Club. 
1954 
Milton J. Bcaudine 
76 East Court Dr. Decatur, Illinois 

I'd like to explain about the picture that heads this article. Actually I'm much better looking — you know those company photographers'! 
Since the last article, IVc received only eigiit 
(8) letters. Tins isn't much to write an article 

on. Tlic next article should be much better bf­1^ cause between now and the next deadline wc will ^hav c gotten together over a few drinks after the 
Xa^y game. I think I can safely predict that "a good time v'as had by all.*' Should we have a reunion party everj* year? Our hats arc off to Professor DICK PILGER, who worked so hard to make the party a success. 
WlLUAXf AMUNDSOX, recently appointed city engineer of Sioux City, Iowa, wonders %vhat his ciWl engineer classmates arc doing with them­selves. Can't help you, Bill, with only eight letters a quarter the chances of hearing from a civil engineer arc slim. Ifowcver, PETE SCHWENK is running his own boat business outside of Wash­ington, D.C., and has three daughters (twins among them). 
BILL GUILFOILE, a regular correspondent, reports the following: BOB CRESPY announced his engagement to Mar>- Ann Bcrbach of Pittsburgh, 
^Pa . Tliey plan on a November wedding. GEORGE 
"KOLAS A is teaching and coaching at a I-ong Island high scliool. JACK BREZETTE is stock brokering with M.L.P.F. and S. in N.Y.C. Jack is married and has a daughter, Barbara Ann. KEN MELCHOIR is with M.L.P.F. and S. in Kansas City. FRANK DOOLEY is a mortician in AVcstfield, New Jersey. JOE GALL.\GHER is practicing law in N.Y.C. BOB NANOVIC is working for Freeport Sulphur, also in N.Y.C. ROGER VALDISERRI is the public relatiom, director for Mercedes Bcnz, South Bend, Ind. En­closed in BILL GUILFOILE'S letter was the announcement that JOSEPH E. IMBRIACO has become a member of the law firm of Durand, Twombly and IMBRIACO. Also enclosed ^\-as the announcement of the June wedding of Dawn Marie Dickinson to CHARLES "PHIL" BOLIN in New York. 
4P A beautiful card u-as received from FR. BILL HUND, C.S.C., '5+, from Foyer St. Justin, Fri­bourg, Switzerland, where he is working on a Ph.D. in Philosophy. From the cloak-and-dagger set I received a note in vanishing ink informing us that JOHN H. McGINN was recently elected city commissioner of Lighthouse Point, Florida. John is in business in Fompano Bcacli. I under­
1 stand he doesn't even fix tickets for N.D.*crs, so drive slowly ~~ and stop in. MATT MORAN, 7201 S. Christiana Ave., Chicago 29, 111., dropped a short account of the past seven years into the mail, which is greatly appreciated. Matt received a law degree from N.D. in 1956 and was then commissioned in the USMC. In 1957 he married Patricia Sutley of Chicago and they now, at last count, have three daughters: Nanc\-, Suzanne, and Patricia. Matt spent a year stationed in Iwakumi, Japan, and was released from active duty about 
^2Yz years ago. Since that time Matt has been active as Assistant States Attorney in Chicago. 
CHRIS MALONE, 25 Caterinc .\vc., Red Bank, N.J., wrote endorsing the idea of hanng all the wives of 54'cr5 write. His wife. Tonie, when she finds time from caring for the four little Maloncs will kick off the campaign with a letter on Chris' actirities in time for the next issue. ANTHONY R­G.ARRUTO, M.D., announced the opening of his office — general mcdidnc, at 85 Fleetwood Drive, Hazlet, New Jersey. (N.D. graduates and their families will be cared for free of charge.) 
For those of you who order printed Christmas cards and usually have an extra one or two left over, why don't you send one to your spooky ole class secretary ^rith a little note on back? On behalf of the class officers and myself, have a Merry Christmas and a Happy, Holy, New Year. 
^Fro m the Alumni Office: Congratulations to Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. HINCKLEY, '54, on the birth of their son Thomas 
John back on July 18. He was their fourth child, and they're now all even up at two bo>-s and two girls. The Bincklcys recently moved from the San Francisco Bay .\rea to the environs of Disne>-land, and Jim is at present a registered civil engineer and spends much of his time doing structural design of commercial buildings for Quinton Engi­neers, Ltd., "a ver>" progressive .-V-E (architect­engineer) firm in Los Angeles." 
E. W. HOWLEY has been appointed to the 100 Club, an organization representing the top salesman for Diebold. Inc.. Canton, O.. manufacturer of bank and office equipment. Formerly with Westing­house, he's been \vith Diebold for nearly two years and lives in Northbrook, 111., with his wife Sfar­garet and a daughter Carol. 
JAMES J. GUMBLETO N contributed an article on "Applying Radioisotope Techniques to Engine Wear Mea-.urement" in the July-Xugust issue of the General Motors Engineering Journal. Jim is a product engineer in the power development group of the G.M . engineering stafT currently w-orldng on air-conditioning design and development. He joined G.M. after graduation and iranslerrcd from research to engineering in 1957. He has a master's from Wayne Slate and won the SAE (pardon the expression) Henr>' Ford Memorial Award in 1959 with a paper on spark plugs prc-iouized with radio­active gold. Quick, Watson, the Geiger counter! 
Some colorful graduates at Notre Dame's sum­mer commencement: ROBERT C. ADAMS of Cran­ston, R.I., who won an AL.-\. in hislorj' with a dissertation on "The Opinion of Napoleon I on the Russian Government," which Napoleon himself could have expressed in one four-letter word; REV. JAMES E. KELLY, C.S.C., former high school teacher in Detroit, Morrlssey prefect. Chris­tian Family Movement chaplain, and parish trouble­shooter, an M.A. in sociologv- before going on to the U. of North Carolina. Chapel Hill, for further studyj BROTHERS CHARLES J. KRUPP and HAROLD RUPLINGER, CS.C , M.A. degrees in education. 
DR. FRxVNCIS J. WAGNER, who took his Ph.D. with the Class, has been named an assistant pro­fessor of mathematics in the U. of Cincinnati's McMicken College of Arts and Sciences. He has taught math at N.D., St. Louis U., Marquette and Creighton. He and his wife Catherine are the parents of one child. 
1955 
Paul Fullmer 7344 N. Ridge Ave. Chicago, Illinois 

A MERRY Christmas and a HAPPY .New Year to the men of '55 and their families! 
With tliat highly original lead out of the way, I want to axrard "orchids" to JERRY HUGHES, DICK RE.-\.MER, and PAUL MILLER for the "best letters of the O'cle." Since both Dick and Paul are medicine men. it proves that those pre­meds can write after all is said and done. 
Let's start with "Huge," who has just started a two-year tour of duty on Formosa. He's a jet jockey, and hopes to have his captain's bars by the time thb column reaches you- Jerry has his wife and two-year-old boy %vith him. Since arriving in July, he has flown to Clark AFB in the Philip­pines, Okinawa and Japan. He claims that the driving over there is the worst he has ever seen, and since both of us were stationed in Texas where they use the superhighways for races every day of the week, it must really be something. To quote from his letter: "They don't mind if you run over their children, but for heaven's sake, don't kill a water buffalo! They issue you a Chinese driver's license so you can drive as wildly ax thej* do." If you have a few minutes, I think Jerry would appreciate getting a letter from stale-side. His address is: 1st Lt. (Captain, maybe!) JEROME E. HUGHES, Box 165, 6214th Tactical Group-602-.-\PO 140, San Francisco, Calif. 
Now that we have the latest on "Huge," what about the rest of you BMOCs? I guess in polite language (The Dome's), you were listed imder "Who's Who." Nevertheless, I'm expecting letters from GEORGE CARHART, WALT CLEMENS, JOE DALEY, CHUCK DOHERTY. FRANK FLORI.\N, DON GELS, JIM HESBURGH, RON KUEBER, BUD LaLONDE. KA^t\L HOSSL%N, TOM MAY, LEO McEVOY, RON MEALEY, JOHN O'MEARA, JOHN POUTRS. JOE SAUND­ERS. JIM SHERER, FRANK TONINI. and HENRY WEISBECKER in the first mail after this column reaches you. 
DICK REAMER, the roving rotund ambass;u]or of good w-ill, will be dispensing his individual brand of cheer in Europe for two more years, "God, Kennedy and Khrushchev willing." He is a senior med student in Vienna aiid is specializing in ncurolog>' and psychiatry-. In other ^vords. I think the Army would use him as a "head shrink­er." Dick has been accepted as a member of the .Austrian Catholic .Academicians, and claims he is the first foreigner to become a full-fledged member. But people raised in Elkhart sometimes get carried away ivitli themselves, I've found! *'I*m going to do my darndest to get elected one of the five officers for a semester before I go home, not be­cause of any real desire for power, but to get all dressed up and go rattling around tou-n in a procession wanng my saber and yelling 'Horray for the Pope.' 'Death to the Infidels,' or *Gimme another beer,' or something equally Catholic and intellectual." As you can see from his ot\*n words. Dick needs help. He adds that this illustrious student group will bestow an honorary member­ship on F.ATHER HESBURGH when he goes to Vienna as a member of the Atomic Energy Com­mission. If FATHER HESBURGH is as smart as I think he is, he'll decline the "honor." In­cidentally, Dick's address is: Pension Cosmopolite, .•\bcrstrassc 23, Vienna VIIL, Austria. 
PAUL MILLER reports that he got his M.D. at Georgetown with such '55 stalwarts as KEVIN O'DONNELL, JOE SWIFT, STEVE CONWAY, ED TOOMEY and TED LAUGHLIN. Paul in­terned at Belleviie in New York; took his rcsi­
ERIE—Officers of the Erie N.D. Club for 1961-62 include (L-r.) WiUiam J. Dwyer, secretary; Raymond W. Lcgler, president; Edward Kern, treasurer; and Anthony J. Zambroski, president. 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 47 
dcncy in Bn^loii and is now doing research in 
cndoclrinoIo5\- at the New England Medical Cen­
ter in Boston. He is still a bachelor and drives 

a Por>cIic to prove it. 
According to Paul. KEVIN 0*DOXNELL uas 

last seen in the Navv sub scmcc "plaving doc­
tor." DON .M.ATTH'EWS, ex-commodore of tlu­
sailing club and Paul's roommate at school (I 
believe), is married and lives in Rye. N,Y. Don 
has three children. Yon may recall that Don 
captained "Vjm" in tlu- America Cup thvec vrar> 
ago. Paul reports that Don "swore off* sailing 
after that, but now is a crew member on the 
I2-mcter "Wcatheriy." JACK BATTLE works in 
New York for International Paper Co. He is 
married and has three children. STEVE CON­
W.AY, married and with one baby, is in Washing­
ton, at District of Columbia General Hospital. 
Paul gets a little sketchy in his information at 
this point, but reports that BOB HUTCHINSON 
of WNDU fame is in Washington and JOE SWIFT 
is specializing in obstetrics in a southern ho.^piinl. 
Joe and his \rife. Maty, have one baby. In a 
lengthy P.S.. Paul invites any and all N.D. men 
passing through Boston to give him a call at the 
hospital. 
TOM DONOHUE xvas appointed direct mail and 

promotion manager for the University of Notre 
Dame Press in July. He extends a welcome to 
classmates who tnav be visiting the campus and 
looking for a familiar face. 
I received a nice letter from JOHN RU5SO, 

who is now a "counsellor at law'' in Toms River, 
X.J. (Thai's some name, isn't it? Was it named after Tom Sa\s-ycr. John?) Recently John N\-as appointed .Assistant Ocean County Prosecutor. Tliis is in addition to his own private practice. John and his wife. Mar\-anne. have two girls. I'm glad to sec that I'm beginning to hear from those of you in the East, but there slill arc a lot of ''bodies" missing. If one is yours, sit down and write a note on the back of a Christmas card and stick it in the mail box tomorrow. Inci­dentally, if any of you arc passing through the Windy City and would like to chew the fat or get the current dope on someone in this area, just give mc a ring. I'm in the phone book, as Mae West would say. 
R.AY KENNEDY just got the job that cver>­journalist dreams about and every journalist's wife hopes he never gets offered because she knows he'll lake it. Ray is now assistant editor of "Show Business Illustrated" — tlic new magazine pub­lished by Hugh HefTner. I'm sure most of you have heard of Hugh! Ray's duties consist mainly of keeping tabs on current night club shows. Can anyone beat that for a racket? With his key to the local Pla\-boy Club and expanse account, you can bet that '"Tlic Rodent" is now tlic most popular man in the Class of '55 in the Chicago area. 
NEAL "ALLSTATE" HALLOR.\N, who sells more insurance than the rest of the agents in Chicago, said that he met JOHN "COMMERCE SCHOOL** RYAN at a lollway restaurant the other day. John is 5tud>-ing for the priesthood at St. Procopius Collrgc in suburban Lisle and told Ncal that he expects to be ordained well be­fore the next reunion. 
MIKE JACKM.-VN, who is teaching in Pasadena, Calif., was in the Chicago area this summer. He has two children. 
D.\N' SHANNON, who started the summer as state mutuels inspector at all Chicago race tracks, was named acting secretarv' of the Illinois Racing Board midway through tlic season. His former teammate at Mount Carmcl and N.D., TOM CAREV, is concentrating on establishing himscU in the legal profession this year. He resigned as Carmcl football coacli after winning the city title last year. 
TOM DORWIN, my former roommate and one «f the nicest broken down water ski nuts I know. just left for Fort Worth where he will be the Evinrudc representative in northern Texas and soutlicm Oklalioma. If any of you salesmen think you have a big territory-, check Tom's. He say> it is over 200 miles between some dealers and that he will average more than 2.000 miles a week. My only ^vorr>- is that he'll get down there and fail to find a lake where the customer can use a motor. All I saw in Texas was a lot of '"nothing." (Houston and Dallas, of course, are exceptions!) I hope that Tom's blushing bride, Carol, won't get too lonesome waiting for the weekends. 
JLM BERQUIST, the man of many degrees, finally is going to work for a living. Jim will teach history- this year at Coc College in Cedar Rapids, lowa-
TIM and Ann DEVEREUX welcomed a little 

48 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
.^^\ 

CHICAGO GENERAL APPEAL chalnncn join Notre Dame's president at the huge Memorial Library excavation: (l.-r.) Frank J. Milligan, '45; James J. Jennings, '51; John Witucki, '57, Foundation staff; Father Hesburgh, '38; Philip J. Faccenda, '51, general chairman; Ray W. Durst, '26, special gifts chairman; George J. Rassas, '41; and John D. Moynahan, '57. 
girl in July to go along with their boy. STEVE the same name. PETE HARRISON has a law 
and Jovce REBORA had their third girl in .\ugust. practice in suburban Mundelcin. Another mem­
JERRY BRANSFIELD, another of the "legal ber of the law brigade is JOHN HARTIG/\N. 
eagles" in Chicago, married Maureen Kelly on PAT HEALEY was an assistant state's attorney, 
Sept. 9 and the wedding breakfast at the Black-but there have been many changes in that office 
stone was a miniature N.D. reunion. recently. 
Here is some second-hand information on Chicago JOHN HESTER is one of our town's busier area men. I don't know how accurate it is, but accountants. JOE KEARNEY has a **\'icc Presi­'you can't shoot a guy for trying. (I hope!) dent" sign on his door these days at Northwestern PAUL PFOHL is an account executive with a Heating & Plumbing Co. BILL KING is a sales­Chicago broker, who let cvcrv'one know about it man for an industrial concern. FRED KRACK-through large newspaper ads. *'I knew him tAUER is export manager for Sparkler Manufac­when. . . -" TOM BARNICLE is a real estate turing Co. What arc you doing, Fred, sending salesman. WALT B.\SSI and LOU ZEFRAN are sparklers to Hong Kong for Ncv\- Year's? DON "active" in the family mortuarv' business. PETE LANSPA is in the industrial relations department BRYANT is a design engineer with Motorola. (I at Western Electric, while JI.M .M.ALOOLY Is hope lhe\- send me a new clock radio for that the manager of a real estate and insurance firm. plug.) CHARLIE C\LDWELL is an accountant, Another federal man is DON McKENZIE, who while BOB C\FFARELLI has been serving as an is an attomev' with the Securities and Exchange assistant U.S. attome>-. CHARLIE CALLEWAERT Commission. George Meyers, who passes the is a supervisor with a laundry- and dr\- cleaning basket every Sunday in our clmrch. Is comp­finn. troller at Founders Mutual Casualty Company. BOB NEVERIL is a rcscardi engineer with .AMF. 
Ttic name's the same -~ Callahan. JIM CALLA­
which is a sufiiciently \'ague title since this com­
HAN is a patent attorney with .\rmour, while 
pany seems to be in almost cverv' field these days. 
JOHN CALLAHAN had his law degree in an 
yiSi 0*TOOLE Is another IB.\i man in on the 
.•\ir Force uniform at last report. EMMET CAS­
easx- money to be had in sales. TONY P.ASQUESI, 
SIDY is an engineer at Peoples Gas Company. 
who has forsaken.the pro football grind, is a lum­
Tlie only marine tougher than Hank Bauer, FR.ANK 
ber salesman. Two more engineers in the area 
CLELAND, is back in to^vn as a salesman for a 
arc JOHN PIMEN"rA and JOHN PLVTER. 
cliemical company. Back from his Mexican siesta. 
CHUCK PIPER is still another IBM man. JERRY 
DAVE COHEN ts doing yeoman service on Clu-
PRASSAS is the best golfer in town, and does •
cago's hard-pressed human relations staff. Another 
manage to put in a few hours at the office during 
prosperous broker is PHIL COLLINS. DICK 
the summer. Now he's back in the real estate 
COOK is advertising and sales promotion manager 
business on a full time basis. JOE RAFFERTV 
for a manufacturing concern. MARTY CULHANE 
is sales manager for the family's moving company. 
is employed by a savings and loan association on 
.Assistant dbtrict credit manager for Firestone is •t
the far north side. Rivaling Halloran as the top 
JOHN RICHARDS. CARL ROHR is auditor for 
insurance man in town is BOB D.AHLEN, who is 
Tclcti-pe Corp. and RON SERSEN is a sales 
a Penn Mutual agent. 
engineer for the same company, HENRY SCHEN­
.Again, let's play ''The Name's the Same," Tliis DORF is a member of the Chicago Board of 
time it's Feeley. DICK FEELEY is an accountant Trade. ED SCHNEIDER is an accountant with 
u-ith Zenith (if the other plug doesn't do the job, a large Chicago firm. TIM SHEA I;, a sales 
maybe this one will!). TOM FEELEY is a collec­trainee with Sears Roebuck, while PAT SHEEH.AN 
tion supervisor at the First National Bank. This Is in public relations with an insurance firm. DICK 
time let's play the game with Flynn. JACKSON SODETZ is assistant treasurer of a wholesale food 
FLYNN is an industrial engineer at Ryerson Steel. company. Big RUSS TOOHEY Is in the family's 
IB.M has a top salesman in JOHN FLYNN. PETE electrical business. 
FOY is traffic manager with Evcrsvvect Corp. At 
last report JERE FREIDHEIM u ^ a pediatric JOHN VANDEVE.N is an office furniture sales­
resident at Chicago's Merc>' Hospital. DICK man. Director of research at Regis Chemical Co. 
GIRARD is an attorney with the board of edu­is TONY VERBISCAR. .And that about does it 
cation, and DICK "Yogi Berra" GABERIK is a for now with the Chicago alumni. 
teaclier. Many of us here in Chicago arc working on the 
MARTY GLEASON is running his own equip­University's *'Program for the Future'* campaign, 
ment company, and I think has a comer on the and we hope tliat you, too, arc active. It you 
Chicago money market, BOB GRAY is a project can't spare the time, at least get behind the cam-i 
engineer u-ith U.S. Gx-psum. JOE HAGGERTY paign with your clicckbook. If Notre Dame Is to 
is sales manager for an oil company that bears take its place as the great Catholic Unlvcrsltx' of 
the world, it is imperative that cverj- alumnus ^support the campaign. Let's put our shoulder to the wheel and do the job. 
And last but not k-asi, our sincere condolence^i to JOE CROWLEY on the death of his father. FATHER TOM O'DONNELL remembered Afr. Crowley in a special Mass nii tht* campus Aug. 5, but please remember him in a special way this Sunday when you attend Mass. 
From the Alumni Office: 

THOMAS H. DOXOHUE, after three years on the staff of the weekly magazine .-\ve ^fa^ia. Iia> been appointed direct mail and promotion manager of tlic U. of Notre Dame Press, coordinating sales promotion and adx'ertising for the University's pub­lishing department. A native of Baltimore^ ^fd., Tom studied at Catholic U. and Dayton, won baclielor's and master's degrees in English at X.D., and worked for a while as a technical writer for 
^Bendix. He and his wife Afartha Ann have three ^children. 
RONALD P. SMITH has announced the open­ing of his law office at Suite 1234 Minnesota Building in St. Paul, Minn. And ROBERT J. .ARRIX has become director of new products for Tck-Hughes, toothbrush di\ision of Johnson & Johnson. Joining J & J in 1958, Bob has apparently dc^xloped super-stick while working as assistant produce director of Band-Aid and the baby pro­ducts. With wife Catherine and two children, .Michele and Robert, Bob lives in Wcstfield. N.J. 
Summer commencements saw WILLIAM A. RE.ALE receiving a Juris doctor degree from Ohio State U., and EDWARD THOMAS BORUS with an M.A. in economics from N.D. 
A postal notice gave indecisive evidence that JAMES K. COMISKEY is deceased in New Ro­chetlc. N.V.; the .'Vhimn! Office would appreciate confirmation from a classmate, but would welcome 
^ a denial even more. It's definite that one-time classmate and pitching whiz JEROME M. DON­NELLY of Steubcnvillc. C , has died of Hodgkins disease after keeping a heroic record of the disease for future sufferers. Jerr>' left N.D. after a stellar baseball year as a. sophomore, finished at Mar\-­Iand*s Mt. St. .^^al->•'s and signed with the Kansas City Athletics, iiis contract was bought by the Cincinnati Reds, but his arm went bad after two years in the Minors, returning Iiim to Steubenwlle to work as an industrial engineer, sports reporter and ardent volunteer in children's baseball leagues. He leaves his widow Marlene and four small chil­dren. Pray for these classmates and others who have gone before. 
1956 
John P. Deasy 
5697 N. Lincoln Ave. 
Chicago 45, Illinois 

From the Alumni Office: Congratulations to R/\\*MOND N. SAIA'ERY of Green Bay, Wisconsin, an agent of Mutual Benefit 
» 
THOMAS PAUUCK, '61, of Chicago (on left) and three more of the 45 Peace Corps volunteers in Notre Dame's Chilean Project, confer with the 
I coordinator. Prof. Walter Langford, '30, (extreme right) before departing on Sept. 11 for Chile after eight weeks of training. 
Life and one of the youngest men ever to appear 
on the roster of the National Association of Life 
UnderwTiters' Million Dollar Round Tabic. Ray 
won a place on the I96I roster by writing more 
than a million dollars worth of life policies in 1960. 
Also to South Bend's ODIS STRONG, interning 

at St. Marj^'s Hospital in Long Beach, Calif., after 
graduating with an M.D. from Meharry ^{edical 
College, Nashville, Tenn. Odis is believed to be 
the first Negri* graduate of Notre Dame to earn a 
medical degree. He married Margaret Hubbard 
of Memphis, Tenn., in 1958. 
.August grads included classmate WILLIAM PAUL 

HAUSER ' and WILLIA.M GERALD KOFRON, 
both winning Ph.D. degrees In chemistr>' at the 
University of Rochester; and FxVTHER D.ANIEL 
BOLAND, CS.C , second-storv- man at Cavanaugh 
Hall, an Sf.A. in education from N.D. 
The death of JOHN GAFFNEY in September 

was quite a shock. Pray for him. 
reunion 
1962 
Jun* 
8-9-10 
1957 
Donald J. Barr 463 Briar Place Chicago 14, Illinois 
Jack E. Casey Chicago Show Printing Co. 553 W. Fifth Ave. New York 17, N. Y. 

We may as well start at the beginning. a.« the saying goes. One of your correspondents in tlie field, namely JACK aASEY, has been recalled to active duty in the U.S. Army. He reports to Fort Lee, Virginia, on October 12. So please send all mail to DON BARR. 
We received a note that a\REY SCHUTTER 

was married to Judith Denton on July 15. Tliey 
are living at 2019 W, Second St.. in Enid, Okla. 
Carey is a jet pilot flying out of Forbes .Air Force 
Base in Topeka. 
JLM HENEGH.VN and wife Helen had their first child. James Jr.. on June 19. Jim is working on his Ph.D. in the Lobund Division of the Biolog>­Dept. at X.D. 
We have a nice letter from MIKE CAT^VN­Z^\RO*S wife Kathleen. Mike and Kathleen Mc-Keeves (St. Mary's) were married in Dec, I960, in Detroit and now live in Baltimore. ^Id., at 1302 Dartmouth Ave. Mike works for ^^artin Co. They are expecting their first child in November. RICH J.ACOBS Ls also in Baltimore with the State Welfare Dept. Rich and Mike are both attending Law School in the evening. 
MIKE BOYLE is married to Kay Howard (St. Mary\s) and living in Pittsburgh where Mike is attending Duquesne University of Law. The\- have one daughter. Bridget. 
ROGER V.AN DRISSE and his new bride. Marge Gallagher (St. Mar>-'s), live in Green Bay, Wise. 
K. J. PHELfVN recently visited his home in Chicago. K. J. is on the USS Valcant at Nor­folk, Va., after returnnig from the Persian Gulf. He tells me L/VRRY COOKE is in San Francisco for his medical internship. BERNIE LYONS is Hying with the /\ir Force and is stationed In the Citv of Lights — Las Vegas. 
JIM ROACH is also in Norfolk. 

TOM KRISTAPEIT writes that he is married and living in Cambridge, Mass. Tom has a mas­ter's degree m city planning and is working on urban renewal projects in the New England area. Tom says MORRIE S.ARDI is completing his 
M.B.A. program at Georgetown white working for Westinghouse. He and his wife Jackie live in Vienna, Va. Tom also informs ns that MIKE HOLLORAN is married and working on his Ph.D. in ph>-sics. PAUL KROPP just got his Ph.D­in chemistry at the U. of Wisconsin. DICK WALWOO D is in the Boston area, ivorking for a building developer. Thanks, Tom. 
The following notes are from DR. RON LOR­ENZINI. 
FRANK PEDACE, .M.D., is in the USN serving with the ifarines at 29 Palms, California, as base hospital physician. The Pedaces have one recent addition, Frankie Jr., age three months, at present with same "pearly white teeth'' as Fr3nk Sr. 
JAMES KENNEDY, M.D., first year surgical resident in the Cook County Hospital program, is presently at Columbus Hospital, Chicago. 
RON LORENZINI, .M.D., had twin girls. .\anc>­and Susan, Aug. 15. He is in his first year of obstetricaI-gynecolog>' residence* at Cook County Hospital, Chicago. 
BOB SEELMAN, M.D., (.V.D. '54 and Loyola '57) is in his first year of medical residency' at Mavo Clinic, Rochester, Minn. 
.MIKE HOWARD, M.D., is at Cook County Hospital, Chicago. He finished his year of intern­ship and is deciding on future endeavors. 
BOB KOY, .\r.D., is to be stationed at the Lowey AFB in Montana as base physician. He completed his Internship at Cook County Hospital. 
JIM EGGERS, M.D., is interning now at Cook County Hospital, Chicago and was married on September 9. Tliev will be residing in Chicago. 
KENT BOCKOVER, M.D., has a recent addi­tion. his second child. James Brian (3 mos.). Kent is in his first year of genetic-urinary residency at Cook County Hospital. 
BOB BiLVNNICK, M.D., writes from San Fran­cLsco of his upcoming marriage in January to a female intern. Bob Is in his first year of ortho­pedic surgery residency at .Alameda County Hos­pital. He contemplates entrance into the USN In July. 1962. 
Ri\Y DES ROSIERS, .M.D., finished his Intern­ship at Cook County Hospital and is now serving with the USPHS (Public Health). 
From the .Alumni OfHce: DONALD MACHENBERG, after three years in the U.S. Marines and 11 months In training, has been assigned as a market analyst in the sales and marketing department of Allls-Chalmers. ROBERT J. CLARKE, formerly of Bcn^T-n, 111., now lives at 2927 Foster, N.E.. Grand Rapids. Mich., where he is an assistant professor of poli­tical science at .Aquinas College. Tufts College School of Medicine awarded M.D. degrees to classmates WILLIA.M HENRY GARVIN, JR., and D.AVID J.A.MES H.VND in Medford, Mass., last June. .And in .August Notre Dame awarded an M.A. in education to VINCEN*T .A. DOOLEY of Westfield, N.J., and an M.A. in Eng­lish to BERT G. HORNB.ACK of Bowling Green, Ky. A promising career as a concert pianist was cut short August 6 for EDWARD NEYLON% killed in an automobile acddent In Cliarleston. West Vir­ginia. Prayers for his eternal rest and sympathy to his parents. 
1958 
Arthur L. Roulc, Jr. 1709 Indiana Avenue 
LaPorte, Indiana 

Hello again to all of you out there In Reader-land. As an opening comment in this edition, may I express my regret that this column must be briefer than its immediate predecessors. Strangely enough, the composition of a news column requires a supply of news, and during the past two or three inontlts our supply has fallen below our demand. After an exhaustive study of the situation. I have concluded that the following remedial steps should be taken: (I) Those of you who are pressed for time should purchase one of those clever little three-cent post cards that Uncle Sam provides and spend about 30 seconds scribbling a note. (2) Wives should take the initiative for recalcitrant husbands and send along all that news that has been negligently denied the fulfillment of its des­tiny (that is — Its publication). (3) .All of you should meditate on the unfairness of your taking 
Notre Dame Alumnus^ November, 1961 49 
enjoymenl in reading the news of your brethren while denying tlicm the pleasure of reading about you. 
So much for the '"Word-to-lhc-AVise Department." 
Tliis is the year in uliicli the various law schools aroimd the counir>- are due to disgorge a horde of your '38 classmaies and send them forth to seek their fortunes, eic. Recently admitted to practice in the State of Indiana were: JOHN DUXX, who has joined the patent lau- department of Standard Oil in Chicago; TOM CLUSSEIt\TH, who is with the Securities and Excliange Commission in Washington; ED HARDIG, currently serving with the .•Xrmy Reserve; DICK DIES, also militarily *mploycd; ED OTOOLE, who is sening as law clerk for the Honorable Luther M. S^TScrt. Fed­eral District Judge for the Northern District of Indiana, in Hammond: and your secrclarv-, ART ROULE, who has taken emplo\Tnent with the firm of Route &. Raclson, in LaI*ortc, Indiana, pending the commencement of his niilitarj' tour of duty. 
J.AKE MORELAXD was admitted to the Iowa Bar in June and is now assistant County Prosecutor in Otiumwa. Iowa. Tlie Morelands recently cele­brated the arrival of their third child, Kevin. Jake, by the w-ay, has joined the ranks of contributors to this magazine — he has undertaken to handle the news of the 1S61 Law Class, which appears on subsequent pages. 
I expect to hear similar news from a great many more classmates (as to beginning the practice of law) in the ver\- near future. 
FROM THE MAILB.^G: BILL DOTTERWEICH writes from Annapolis, Mar>'land. where he is finishing his Navy tour as an instructor (Metallurgy and Strength of Ma­terials) at the Naval Academy. In February, Bill and his wife, I'c3g>', greeted their second son, Kevin. Number One Son, Patrick, is now a year and a half old. Bill has been picking up some extra coiu^es at George Washington University in his spare time and in doing so has run into BILL AITKEN. Mr. Aitkcn is employed by the govern­ment in Washington and is the proud father of twin girls. GERRY GENOVESE is now with the Prudential Insurance Co. in South Bend after completing his Army duty at Fort Sheridan, Illinois. Gerr\* and his wife left Fort Sheridan last Fcbruarv- after having seen quite a bit of the MARTV LETSCH­ER family at the nearby Glenvjcw Naval Air Sta­tion. Tlie Lctschcrs now have two sons, and Marty, also having recently left the scnicc, is with the Johnson Wax Co. in Racine. Gerrv also reports that GUi* WXISM-ANTLE is still %vitli the O'Brien Paint Co. in San Francisco. We recently received a post card from DICK CARNEY revealing that he has been with Phillips Petroleum since November of 1959. Dick lias re­ceived an ^LS. in Rcfincr\' Engineering from the University of Tulsa, and is now living with wife and daughter in Bartlesvillc, Oklalioma. Dick passes on the news that Marine Lieutenant GEORGE N.WADEL has been assigned to duty at the Wliite House. Here is a quick summary of the actirilies of FR.-\NK MILNE since graduation in 1958. Frank accepted a position with Texaco in June of 1958, but took a leave of absence the following fall to accept a Dow Fellowship at Northwestern. He completed hb ai:ademic work toward an ^I.S. In Chemical Engineering in 1959 and subsequently married the departmental sccretarj- (from Nortli­western) in July of the same year. Frank re­turned to Texaco, finished his thesis and received his degree in June of 19G0. Tlic Mllnes are cur­rently residing in Houston, where their first off­spring, a daughter, was born last June 13. Mingled amongst the many of our number who arc in the armed forces arc a certain few who have selected the mllitar\- life as a career. One of these is TO.M BARTHOLOMEW who urites from Kc>' West, Florida, where he is being trained as one of the new jet helicopter pilots for the Nav>'. Since entering tlic Navy, Tom has spent some lime in the Orient, aboard the U.S.S. Hornet, has been in the West Coast for prcrious helicopter training, and has founded the Notre Dame Club of Pensa­cola for N.D. Na\-al anators. While on the West Coast, Tom ran across DAN L.\MONT, wlio was attached to an amphibious dash group (whatever that is). From Aloha-land comes a note from Mrs. HAR­OLD "BUD" EXRIGHT, substituting for her busy hubby, relating the following Information. Bud reported as Communications Officer to the 
U.S.S. Epping Forest in June of 1958. The fol­lowing year, upon his bride's graduation from St. 
50 Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1962 

ASSORTED BRASS from Chicago's 322nd Logistical Command (Reserve) gather at Camp McCoy, Wis., for a dinner marking the 186th anniversary of the Chaplain Corps. Lt. Gus Sciacqua, Jr., '57, 
(left) and Rev. (Lt. Col.) Thomas 

J. Murray, C.S.C., flank Gen. Philip Rettig. (Army photo.) 
Mary's he was wed and soon thereafter reported to Nciv London, Connecticut, for submarine scliool­ing. Six months later the Enrights moved to Hawaii, where Bud has been stationed aboard the submarine Medrcgal. He is presently the gunnery officer — haWng received his "dolphins" last April. Two sons have joined the family — Harrj*, Jr. (18 months of age) and Sean Timothy (four months). 
Two more wives have come to our aid — Mrs. BOB PAYNE and Mrs. PHIL TIERNEY got to­gether and submitted a joint letter. It seems that the Pa>-ncs and Ticniej-s arc living in Falls Creek and Arlington, \lrginia, respectively. BOB PAYNE and the former Joyce A. Sclmck, a graduate of Seton Hall College, were wed in Pitts­burgh on August 13, 1960. Tlicy have been living in Falls Churcli since September, I960, where Bob Is with the Atomic Development Management Corporation. PHIL TIERNEY and his wife, the former Carole Campagna, ^verc married in Wash­ington, D.C., in July of 1961. Phil is currently with the Army, and has been engaged in the part-time study of law. He intends to devote his full time to law scliool upon the termination of his army dutv. Other neu-s proWded by loyal spouses Payne and Tiemey is that LARRY SCHNEIDER is with Martin & Company in Baltimore where he Is working on missile projects. JOE ACCARDO is connected with the Associated Press in the metropolitan District of Columbia area. FRANK FREIDHOFF is a 2d Lieutenant in the Air Force, currently stationed at \Vestover AFB in Chicopce, Massachusetts. J. B. SMINK is in the sales field with the Claruze Fan Company in Chicago. 
Hot ofT the ball point comes the following nc\%*s from LEE HINDERSCHEID, who after three years as an accountant for Firestone in Cleveland has been asked to take computer training with the company. Consequently he Is now in the course of sudi training; w-e will of course expect him to provide us with an electronic prediction of the Irish football fortunes for the ne.\t ten years or so. The Hinderschelds now have three children, the most recent arrival having been last June. Lee also reports the marriage of JOE KILLIAN (last July). In attendance at said nuptials was PAUL DJUBIS.\K, who Is working as a cost-accountant in Cleveland. DICK WALTZ, who received his M.S. in 19G0, is now with Babcock & Wilcox in Baiijcrlon, Ohio; he has two sons. STEVE D.AN'NEAULLER is also cost-accounting. 
Another note which arrived just in time for this edition is from JOE S.ADOFSKI. Joe is In his second year at Georgetown Law School, where he is treasurer of the Student Bar Association. However his studies are now being Interrupted, as his Air National Guard unit has been activated and he ^rill be on active duty for at least a year. CHARLIE SUSANO is now operating his own liquor store in Knoxxille, Tennessee. LARRY ELEUTER I is in his final y^^r at the Georgetown L^w Sdiool and Is dran of his legal fraternity. Delta Theta Phi. 
THE "I DO" DEPARTMENT: Recently married were HANK ZANG and Miss^ A Stephanie Jean Kane, of Bloomlngton, Illinois. Hank, as previously reported, is with a local radio station In Bloonington. BILL STURGIS skipped down the aisle in July with Miss Nanc>' Sanders of Paducah, Kentucky. Tlic Sturgis*s are now living in Memphis, where Bill has returned to emplo>Tnent with Standard Oil after spending the better part of two years In Alaska with the U.S. Army. .August 12, saw the knot-tving of Class Veep JI.M "HOOT" WALSH and Miss Carol Ann Koss. .After a hone>'moon In Mexico. Hoot and Carol returned to LaSalle, Illinois^ where Hoot is selling insurance for the Equitable Life .Assurance Society. 
STORK DEPARTMENT: 
Latest census reports reveal the following new citizens: James A. Pink 111, born to JIM PINK and wife Mar>- Jane, on July 31, 1961; Pegcen ,^ Mar>' Connolly, bom to Sharon and GEORGE ^ ' CONNOLLY, on July 15, 1961; James diaries Vogel, bom to Pat and PHIL VOGEL, on June 16, 1961, in Milwaukee. Word has also readied us of the birth of a daughter to Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HIRSCHFELD in Champaign, Illinois. John, another ne^v lau-^-er, plans to practice in Champaign after taking care of his military* obli­gation. 
"HEARD HERE AND THERE" DEP.ARTMENT: 
While attending the wedding of Hoot Walsh, 

your secretary picked up the following news from 
Messrs. JACK CRILLY and MIKE FOGARTY. 
Jack has been elected president of Delta Tlieta 
phi legal fraternity at DePaul Law School where 
he is in the course of his third and final year. 
Mike Fogarty was recently promoted to Retail 
Advertising at the Chicago Tribune and now deals 
witli earlier grad, J. D. Madlgan of Madlgan's ^ 
Department Store. Mike was married on June 24, 
to Miss Fran Houlihan. ROGER KILEY is de­
bating whether to sign up for an extra year with 
the Marines in order to take jet helicopter train­
ing. BILL C/VHILL was married in August to 
Miss Pcgg>- Hock. PAT DOHERTY is raising eye­
brows at the Chicago Tribune by his swift pro­
motion to the apparel Division of Retail Adver­
tising. EDDIE CLARK, FRANK GIBBONS, 
LARRY PASSARELLA, JERRY BURKE, JIM 
0*GRADY, JOHN DUNN, and JOHN HIRSCH­
FELD, among others, took the Illinois Bar Exam 
this fall. 
JERRY WELLS is currently studying for his 

Master's degree in business at Columbia, after hav­
ing recently finished his stint in the Army, accord­
ing to his parents who were present at the Sturgis 
wedding reported above. M'. 
It was recently reported from Salt Lake City, " 

that DON RONEY has been elected president of 
the local Notre Dame Club. As reported In an 
earlier issue, Don is doing pretty well tor himself 
in the Insurance field in Utah, and was recently 
married. 
On a recent stop-over in Chicago, your secre-j t3r>* nin into J.ACK EDDY hustling down LaSalle street on btislness. Unfortunately, this was one of 1 those occasions when I did not have a note pad handy and I am now unable to recall the name of his employer. Afy apologies. 
NUSSING PERSONS DEP.ARTMENT: 
We hereby inaugurate a new feature in this column, namely a listing of a felection of class­mates from whom wc have not heard. This is obriously intended as a news stimulant, so if you find your name listed, whv not drop us a line, A BOB ABOCZKY, RON ALLEY, ED BARTOLI, » BOB CAIRA, DENNY D'ALELIO, BOB EARLY, DICK FABBRO, JOE GAGLIARDI, G.AYLORD HAAS, ED lANNI, RON JEBA\^, TOM KAIS­ER, TOM LAGONIA, ALEX McANGUS, BOB MACK, DAN NAVALANCE, CHARLES 0'BRIE.N, DICK PADZIESKI, BILL R.\DKE, DUANE SAL­KELD, BOB TAYLOR, CONRAD URB.AN, BOB VAN AUKEN, KIRK WAGENSELLER, GEORGE YOUNG, and JACK ZIELINSKI. 
SEASON'S GREETINGS 
As this is tlie last Issue of the year let me wish you all a verj- happy holiday season and the best "5 of c\'erytliins for the new year. 
From the Alumni Office: 
AURTIN J. NICHOLSON, after two yean with Uncle Sam including two summers building an' v Antarctic cliy-under-Icc with the Army Engineers, came home last January, married Bett^' Lamb of 
Fitchburg, Mass., and left for San Luis Obispo, 
• California, where he is employed by the state as an engineer. PAUL R. BOURJAILY moved to a new address in Oak Park, III., and last Feb. 17 the Bourjailys had a boy, Peter Roger. As of Oct. 1, Paul and ROBERT SPAHN have been actn-ated in the Array's 324th Intelligence Battalion at Ft. Devcns, Mass., for not more than a year as of the last Act of Congress. Secrt'tar>' ART ROULE dropped a bombshell in the last Class mailing by announcing that he had been drafted. A more recent note from Art men-lions a 90-day postponement of his induction, MI Art might have been seen at a few football qamcs. CHARLES F. O'BRIEN of Springfield, III., ha.s joined the technical scr\*ices department of Mon­santo Chemical's organic chemicals diWsion in Monsanto. 111., after a tour with the Na\->-. SP5 
THOMAS o. MCLAUGHLIN of Orcgim, o., is one of the soldi'er-sctentists in the Ordnance Corps' 
^research and engineering program at Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, N.J. Tom is a chemical engineer­ing assistant in the special weapons group re­searching miclear and conventional munitions. RICHARD L. BE.\UDOIN of .Vashua, N.H., received a Ph.D. in biolog\- from the U. of Iowa in August to cap his roaster's from N.D. In Sep­tember he joined the stalT of the School of Public Health at the U. of North Carolina as a rcsearcli fellow in parasitology. He and his wife Barbara have three daughters, Michele, Lisa and DcnJse. 
Other summer grads: JERRY E. REEDY, with an M..\. from the U. of South Dakota; THOMAS 
H. COOK, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.V., with an M-S. in industrial management from Carnegie Techj DENNIS A. GIBSON, Rochester, N.Y., t%itli an M.A. in education frt>m Notre Dame; RICHARD 
C. HAUCK of South Bend, M.A. from N.D. in 
sociology (correctional administration); RICHARD fcA. O'BRIEN, Barnngton. III., with an M.F.A. ^from N.D. 
Sympathy to Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES E. Mc-GILL of Fair\iew Park, O., on the death of their infant son, Michael Gerard. 
1959 
Dennis M. Nead 6121 Robison Rd. Cincinnati, Ohio 

T. Y. H.\YES was recently discharged as Pvt. E2 from Ft. Bclvoir, Virginia, where he displayed belter than average golf scores for four inoulhs. .•\ Kemper insurance agent, he plans to wed Miss Sharon Foote this 30 December in Los .'Vngeles; MIKE DUGAN in his thirti year of law at Creighton University will preside as T. Y.'s best man. 
ROGER BRESLLV will attend first year law 
school at Rutgers University. Discharged from the 
.\avy this summer, he vacationed with his parents 
in Seagirt. New Jersey. 
WARREN ALBRIGHT is employed in the ad­vertising department of the General Foods Cor­poration in New York. JI.M DULJ\ N IS and has been for some time in the Army Hospital at Ft. Lee, Virginia, with x-arious internal disorders. |^1IKE KELLY (the architect from San Fran­cisco) is stationed in Toledo, Ohio, tvith the Army, 
ED RICCUITI is employed with the Bergen 
Evening Record as a reporter in. Hackcnsack, New-
Jersey. JAMES HEIRT\', a recent father of a 
baby girl, is working for the city of Chicago as a 
civil engineer. GEO. SPAHN started law school 
at St. John's University in N.Y.C. this fall. 
JOE COLLINS was recently promoted to First 
Lieutenant in the Marines at the Marine Air Sta­
tion, Beaufort, South Carolina. DAVE SCHWARTZ 
was recently discharged from Ft. Meade and was 
Pio Officer during his tour of duty. He is presently 
employed at the P,?dslone Arsenal, Huntsville, 
Alabama. SCOTT BRADSHAW, at present a 
company commander 2nd Ll. at Fort Leonard 
Wood, Mo., plans to be discharged 29 Nov., '61, 
and return home to Tulsa, Okla., to rejoin wife 
Emily and son Michael. HARRY KOENIG, Chi­
tt-ago's top disc jockey, has just finished recruit 'raining at Leonard Wood; MIKE DERRANE also completed training there. 
BILL GALLIGfVN married Barbara Wiethe at St. Peter in Chains Cathedral in Cincinnati on the 24th of June. DUNCAN LA VIGNE married Fay Wright of Cincinnati on 26 August. The ceremony was performed by Most Rev. Ernest J. Primeau. Bishop of Manchester, New Hampshire, a cousin of the bridegroom. 
WILL HOTZE is in his third year of law school at the University of Virginia, and JOHN HART is in his third year at Fordham. 
JERRY OWINGS is an accountara with a firm in Richmond. Va.; spent many summer weekends at Virginia Beach. 
PxVUL DOWDS (for those who were sophomores in Lyons Hall and close friends of Paul) is cap­tain of Slipperv- Rock's football team this fall and will finish school in June. His wife Jane recently presented him with a baby boy. 
TIM MAHONEY is employed with the Despard Co. in New York as an insurance broker. TIM J., ED TRE/\CY, and BUCKY O'CONNOR spent summer weekends In Sea Girt, New Jersey. 
KEVIN HALLIGAN has been discharged from the Army after a memorable tour in Korea and \«U work with a drug firm in New Jersey. MARK WALSH is an accountant with Haskcns and Sells in L..-\.; his wife just presented him their second child, Michael. DENNY CARROLL is a first lieutenant assigned to Fort Rilev, Kansas, to the Big Red One (Infantr>). 
WILEY RICE is attending graduate school at Oklalioma University. GARY VICTOR u-as graduated from Naval OBS at Newport, Rhode Island. He is now stationed in Venliu-a, Cali­fornia, and married to former Penny Pence from St. Mary's across the way. RICH LOMBARDI and JIM REUL.-VND arc first lieutenants at Ft. Leonard Wood, Mo., the former a receptionist for ne^v- recruits and the latter the post assistant adju­tant general. 
From the Alumni Ofiice; JOSEPH P. KRUG, his wife Barbara, daughter Carolyn Sue. and son Joseph Alphonse, are living in Cleveland. O., where Joe is working in the treasury dept. of the Cleveland Paper Co., a divi­sion of the Mead Corp. Chicago's D.AVID HIGGINS is an instructor in communication at Stephens College, Columbia, Mo. ROBERT A. GHEL.ARDI has received the habit of a novice in the Congregation of Holy Cross in the Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn., and ROBERT B. SCHOENEM.AN has made his first vows as a candidate for the priesthood. Lt. Commander JA.MES D. BURDEN is cur­rently working on an M..A. at Stanford, and JAY JONES, after nearly 18 months of training, has been assigned as a sales rep for fMlis-Chahuers in the Dallas. Tex., district office. Spring and summer grads include: JEROME FRANCIS TR.AUTSCHOLD, JR., Waco, Tex., an 
M.B.A. with honors from the U. of Chicago Grad School of Business; JAMES J. CORRIGAX, JR., Wilmington. Del., and JOHN E. .McGR.\TH, Pitts­burgh, M.S. degrees in industrial administration from Carnegie Tech; R.AYMOND S. OFFCUTT, JR., of Independence. Mo., an M..A. in English from N.D.; RICHARD NLATHEW KATIS, Glen Ellyn, III., an M..A. in teaching from Notre Dame. 
1960 
John F. Gcicr 715 La Crosse Avenue Wilniette, Illinois 

(Ed. note; If some of the following seems u little out of season it's not entirely the fault of the writer. It arrived in August jiat after the last issue was locked up- J. L.) 
Tormenting guilt feelings and a sudden impulse to overcome, at least temporarily, an acute case of congenital "procrasiinitis" has again put your secretary- behind the ol' writer-machine in order to meet another deadline for the ALUMNUS that is already long past due. .Among the many messages of news and good cheer received in recent da>-s is a greeting denuded of all good cheer, and in effect, one that is not without the authority lo he exact­ing. The introductory words read something like tliis . . . 
"Your country needs your help . . . and you hereby will be given the privilege of serving j-our country. . . . Go with an open mind. . . . God bless you and keep you.*' 
Despite my overbearing protests, the local draft board apparently refused to be convinced that the news reporter for our Class of '60 should be classi­fied in the category of critical skills and thus enjoy a life-long dcferrment. Well, at any rate, who says I could never be a foreign correspondent? — and perhaps a Berlin one at that! 
In the barrage of letters from '60 luminaries is a note from formidable cx-Sorinite TOM PATCHELL. I'm sure Tom is by no means alone in saying he misses '"the old campus." Keeping within the tradition of a C.A. major. "Patch'* has been re­porting for the Camden Courier prior to his present position as public relations director for Rutgers University of South Jersey. Should any of the N.D. clan in the Jersey area want to contact Tom, his address Is Browning Lane, Delaware Township, N.J. 
Class President DICK CORBETT pens a letter from the nation's capital on his activities with the JFK Administration. Despite the long hours, Dick is enjoying his work as a notable personality with the Democratic Committee's Job placement pro-pram. 
Another happy conslitutnt of the workaday world is .AL COLLANDAR, who is planning a new set of advertising brochures for the Sales Promotion Department of Bethlehem Steel in N.J. 
JOE J.ANSEN, a Feb. '61 grad, is located with Libby, SicNciU & Libby as Industrial Engineering Supervisor for the company's plant in Janesville, Wis. Joe was recently wed to the former Marcla Root of SMC .. . and NEIL FRAMTON, who recently completed six months of active duty In the 
U.S. Marine Corps, is now executive trainee with Scars Roebuck. Neil would like to get in touch with many of you, so contact him at 4025 Echo-dale Ave., Baltimore, Maryland. 
Former California Club OfSccr DENNY NOLAN has finally submitted a report on his activities on the West Coast. Denny reports that both he and MIKE HENDERSON are engineering for the Aerojet-General Corp. in Sacramento. And I wouldn't be a bit surprised it these grads at Aero­jet are cleverly designing some sort of a missile that will rocket them and theJr classmates out that way to our campus reunion (his fall. 
Denny also sends news of Ensign FELIX ISHER­WOOD, who ranked among the top ten of his graduating class from OCS m the Navy. FclLx, by the way, will soon be brother-in-law to class­mate MIKE CRONIX as Mike and Janet Isher­wood plan to be married sometime this summer. 
A letter from Raleigh, N.C. brings us the news that TOM HIRONS, who aspires to a master's degree in nuclear engineering, is j> teaching assis­tant at North Carolina State. .Also revealed is news that Tom's sister Patricia and MIKE HEN­DERSON will take marriage vows in Adrian, Mich., this August. Tom sends on ncivs of the following. . . . DOUG HEYING is ^vith Westing­house in Pittsburgh, as is DON HEWITT, who just completed six months of military training in internal security w'lh the U.S. Coast Guard. . . . After a year's junket in Europe and study at the University of Dublin, TI.M CARROLL will return home in time for Sept. matriculation at the Uni­versity of Michigan Law School. .. . '60 grads GEORGE RICHVALSKY and BOB FRASSANITO are both pursuing studies at Purdue in Industrial -Management . . . and D.AVE HUARTE is ful­filling a sLx-month militars* obligation with the National Guard in California. 
GREAT MOME.\TS IN HISTORY . . . Wed­ding bells will soon be ringing for Jean Buckley and JIM WELTER, both of Chicago. The impor­tant date is December 30. Jim, incidentally, will enter his second year of law studies at Loyola U. . . . April 29 was the momentous day for hois Hackctt and BOB MITCHELL, who were joined together in the sacrament of matrimony in Chester, Pa. . . . TOM GIBXEY has recently wed the former Beth Verbeist of Detroit. . . . Greetings and best wishes to Katherine and CHARLES FAR­RELLY who will celebrate their "paper" anni­versary this Sept. 3. . . . FATHER RARRIS, CS.C, officiated at the Log Chapel for the solemn engagement of Judy Ames (SMC) and MIKE EHLERMAN on June 2 . . . and congratulations arc extended to L. MARTIN TOPPING, whose noteworthy accomplishments at Columbia Univer­sity this past year earned him a sheepskin from the university's Graduate School of Journalum. 
In a communique from Mr. Stork come the joy­ful tidings that James Michael Daniel, a sprightly 
Notre Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 52 
babv bov, is a netvconifr at the home of llie PATRlck DUNNES of Chicago. . . . Also in Storkville Xeus is an announcement of a babv girl for Nancv- and JOE SCHAMBER. 
A recent announcement advises nie that Ensign DAN O'NEILL hx<; left the ranks, of the ever-decreasing N.D. bachelors to be wed to SMC Alumna Meg Scott on the 17th of June in San Francisco. Current info has it that Dan is home-ported in Long Beacli. Calif., on the USS E\'ans. whicli s3>-s Dan. is a "hulk that has sailed thou­sands of miles more than was ever intended." 
Nc»vs of WHO'S WHO in the militarv include 2nd Lets. . . . FRED SEAMON (Anny IntclH­genci'). GU^' ROGERS (who will soon join the Allied Forces in Germany). JOHN THILM.AN (Language School). BRUCE COSACCHI (Counter­intelligence), ED CORNEILLA and D.WE ADAM 
— all of whom are stationed at the army encamp­ment of Ft. Holobird. Baltimore, Md. . , . Others are --- PETE HASBROOK, KEN ADAMSOX, B.ARRY WEST (who arc serving duty at Fort Sill); DAN MacDONALD (at Fort Dix), ED. A. KENNEDY (at Ft. Leonard Wood); and finally. LEO GORMAN aad PAUL QUINN, wlio will be in Germany by the time of this publication. 
En route from six months of *'soulheni com­fort" at Fort Gordon. Ga., 2nd Lt. PAUL PRIEBE whisked into Wilmette last month and whisked me out for a few days as guest ai his home in Roches­ter. Minn. Come this September. Paul will return to the University of Minnesota for more juris­prudence. 
And for a sprinkling of news that has reached your reporter ^ a the grapevine. I shall lierewith set forth . . . BERNIE ALLARD is working with North .American .-\utonctics. - . . Dec. 30 is the date set for the wedding of KEN BOURGON and Ellen Danket of Chicago. Ken. among the graduates at the recent commencement exercises at N.D.. liad conferred on him a master of arts in Tcacliing. . . . Jill Renlchler of SMC is the recent bride of JLM THOMPSON .. . and Mr. and Mrs. ED T. KENNEDY have settled down to a life of marital hlh:i .. . in Ireland. 
A note from P.\T HEEN.^N of "Fightin' Irish" fame indicates that he and Kathy Muldoon of Bcthscda, Md. became Mr. and Mrs- on Dec. 20. Pal has been employed with xhe Union Central Life Insurance Co. of Cincinnati, Ohio, and come this football season will return to ihc pro-gridiron circuit as defensive back with the Washington Redskins. 
.\nd DICK PLUNKETT of Wilmette, home after a six-month stint at .\bcrdeen Proving Grounds, plans to do high-scliool leaching this fall in a nearby suburb. Besides instructing me in the lecliniqucs of army warfare, 2nd Lt. Plunkett has been giving yours truly many a lesson this sum­mer in the art of bridge playing. 
.-Vmong the 'CO grads who are maintaining aca­demic status are JOHN BR-AZiNSKV and PETER 
j . QUINN, who arc in training in the D.C. arta for the medical profession , . . and TONY PARIS!, who since graduation has been '"gcrm-frecing" the animals at University of Connecticut's Departmi-'nt of Bacicriologv-. Tony, a teaching assistant there, has betrothed Earlinc Miltenberger of South Bend. 
Other items of interest that deserve attention include . . . 2nd Lt. ED KNESS, who requests mention of his address, so here it is . . . Box 444, 2589th Support SQ. Dobbins .\FB, Georsia. Ed tells mc that he plans to attend night sclioo] at Gcor^a Tech in nearijy Atlanta when not olhenvisc ser\'ins aciix'e duly at Dobbins Air Force Base. . . . ED PAULSEN is studying law at Pcnn. . . . GERRY SACHSEL is teaching in Garwood, 
N.J. High Scliool. while it's reported former Stu­dent Body V.P. JLM NAUGHTON has been jour­ne\-ing the continent of Europe, but will soon be in Okinawa for a year's duty with the Marines .. . and JOHN CHRISTEN, who recently com­pleted six months as 2nd Lt. with the U.S. Army, will be a September registrant at ihc University of Chicago Law Scliool, 
N-B. Tliosc who Were present for Ixst year's gei-togcther at X.D. are no doubt anxiously await­ing the weekend of October 14 — which not only is the date sclieduled for the XD-Southem Cal game, but more important, h the day when members of the Class of '60 shall journey from all €»mcrs of the globe to gather once again at South Bend for our class reunion of 1961. The reunion is to be held immediately after the game, and as plans are still in the making, exact lime and place should be announced upon your arri\*al. .. . 1 trust many of you will be ilierc, and I am look­ing forward in seeing all of you— Uncle Sam willing. 
52 Noire Dame Alumnus, November, 1961 
For lack of space, news, and endurance, T bid farewell. 
From the Alumni Office: 
JERRY G. FLORE.NT has made his fii-Jt pn>­
fession of vows as a candidate for pricslliood in 
Holy Cross, while RICHARD C. DAGGETT and 
CH.ARLES R. NOWERY became novices in August. 
GREGORY M. ROGERS is a lieutenant in Army Intelligence in Germany and hoped to look up DENNY SH.AUL, now in England on a Rhodes scliolarship, 
BURNETT G. ST. RO.MALV, JR., finished up at the .American Institute for Foreign Trade and has gone to work for the Army and Air Force Exdiange Serxice. ANDREW R. SISSON, Win­netka. III., has joined the Lake Forest College faculty as an instructor in EnglLsIi while studying for his Ph.D. at the U- of Chicago. EDWARD T. KENNEDY of Chicago made the Dean's Honor List at the U. of Chicago w}iile studving for an .M.S. 
BROTHER EDWARD G. DAILEY, C.S.C., picked up an M.A. in modern languages (French) at the X'oire Dame summer commencement. JOHN 
M. STRAKA of South Bend got an ^LA. in eco­nomics, while master's degrees in tcacliing were won bv WILLIAM J. HEAPHY, Bridgeport, Conn.; GEORGE W. HEINEMAN, Conncrsnlle, Ind.; PETER C. McCASUAND, Waterburv-, Conn.; PAUL E. R.\FFERT\*, Glen Ellyn, 111.; and JO­SEPH E. TIRETTER, Long Island Citv. N.Y. BROTHER LAWRENCE STEWART, C.S.C., headed for Ghana after receiving an \LS. in biology. 
1961 
Nick PalUmlch 34 Dartmouth Road West Orange, N. J. 
For most of the men of llie Class of '61 this Lvill be the finit fall sea'^on in many years that will 
YOU CAN HELP NOTRE DAME BY Sending a personal contribution Submitting names of friends inter­ested in the University Ad\asing N.D. Foundation Office if your company has a *plan of giving* Infonning University of your cor­poration's *areas of interest* Remembering the University in your Will or Bequest Contributing gifts other than money 
(i.c paintings, equipment, books, etc) 
Naming the University as a benefici­ary in your insurance policy 
Listing names and addresses of Foun­dations in your community 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAUE FOUNDATION, NOTRE DAUE, INDIANA 
not see them returning to an institution of higher learning to continue their academic endeavors.^­Although many of us have been waiting for ihisH moment for the better part of .sixteen years. I am certain that we all missed, in some way. return­ing this fall, whether it be the morning meetings in the Huddle, the Saturday nights at Guiscppe's. or that greatest of all Saturdav spectacles, THE FIGHTI.VG IRISH in action, 
Tliere was a great shortage of correspondence this summer; as a matter of fact up to AugiLst 13th. I had received the grand total of one letter from the class. But things picked up considerably in the si'cond half of the month, enough MI to make the %vrittng of this article possible. 
I started the summer ofT on a ver>' cheerful note. June lOth, I was an usher in tlie wedding of GEORGE LESNIK and Dorothy Ingram. Both parties are from Brooklyn, New York, where the wedding ceremony was held. BILL H.ALL, for­mer roommate of the groom. \vas best man. Al-rf though I almost succeeded in making the groom and half ihc wedding party miss the big day. everything eventually ran smoothly as planned. George and Dorothy arc now contemplating a trip to Italy where George would attend medical school. 
Two weeks later, on June 24th, I traveled to Decatur, Illinois, for the wedding of JERRY "WHEELS" McNAMARA and Connie Taubcr. -Accompanying mc on the trip were JACK GEN­TEMPO of Union, New Jersev, and BERNIE DOBR^\NSKl of Pittsburgh. Tlie' bride and groom were both from Decatur. The couple left imme­diately after the reception for their honeymoon in Florida. Former classmates of Jcrry^s also attend­ing ihe wedding were MICKEY CRYSTAL, TI.\I MONAH.AX, DAVE WOCHNER, JIM KAVEL. BILL SNOOKS, and BILL HEINBECKER. 
In late June 1 received a report from Las Vegas%' that a feu* of the men from the Class of '61 were rivaling the *'Rat Pack" as the lop attraction in tliat wonderful city of wine, women, and song. The "Frat Pack" included TOM BR;\NNIG.AN, BOB COYLE, and HARRY SL-AXE. I don't know how true it Is, but my reports had it that Brannigan and Coyle were seen in the Sands with Liz Taylor and bodyguards. 
Flash from the Jersey Shore: TIic ^'Clifton Comet." ROGER FARDIN, xvas seen on two difTerent occasions: once in the Osprey Hotel and the other lime on Main Beach in Manasquan. surrounded by twenty gorgeous bathing beauties. When Roger hasn't been on the beach this summer, he has been working for Box. Paints, and Chemi­cals Co. in Lodi. He plans to enter the Armv in the fall. ' • 
The first news Item 1 received this summer, ana ^ I for a while I thought the only one, was from mv i>Id speech classmate, BROTHER PASCHAL PESCE, C.S.C. Brother lias been assigned to teach at St. John Baptist Scliool in Hillsdale. .New Jer­sey. Also received a "short note" from the King j of Baseball. ARNIE LEPOR.ATL Aniic has been doing an excellent job in assisting "The Major" j t« his first pennant as Yankee Leader this summer. \ In the fall he has hopes of entering the Marines.' ^ 
RED MACK (two bum knees and all) and MO , POTTIOS are doing exceptionally well in pre­season practice sessions with the Pittsburgh Steelers j o[ the X.F.L. On two ciccasions this summer I went to .Monmouth Race Track to feed the horses. ' On one of these occasions I ran Into DAN LYONS, who has spent the summer working for a local firm in New York City. 
Saturday, August 26th, LOU FERR^VRI, in M) champagne wedding, married the former Miss Linda Rcnner. Class of *6I graduates at the ceremony and reception were ROGER F.ARDIN ' JOHN HOEY, and FRANK GARGlULO. RON­NIE COMO married a Hoosier from Elkhart. Indiana, the former Miss Melanie Adams, on Aug­ust Hth. JOHN BURNETT Is sclieduled to marrv Miss Maureen Mancz in the fall. BILL QUEENAN is working for the First National Bank of St. Paul, Minnesota. On September 2 lie married Carol Heinibach in St. Paul. A few days ago I received an invitation to the wedding of Miss Helen Richardson and JACK CHRISTIAN. The date is the 23rd of September. The ceremony will take place in Sacred Heart Church in New Brunswick, New Jersey. 
JIM NACK sufTcred a fairly severe attack of sunstroke early this summer, but from all reports he has fully recovered. JIM FITZGERALD (i* ; accord with the N.D. program) is going to serve ' in the Peace Corps In Chile. t 

•SaiaueaMBiwiSrg 
Holy Cross Fathers 
Toil for Souls in distant mission coun­tries. We Seminarians ask you to help us help them this Christmas. 
TRADITIONAL ASSORTMENT 21 cards $1.00 
LITTLE ANGEL STYLE 2] cctrds SI.25 
MODERN UTURGICAL 21 cards $1.00 
Send to 
MISSION SOCIETY HOLY CROSS FATHERS MOREAU SEMINARY NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

FLASH! DAN MATERXA is nou- living in Stufbcnv-ille, Ohio. 
JOHN "KID" HOEY (I wouldn't have stepped into a ring with Sherlock for all the tea in China) is working in Washington, D.C. as a patent ex­aminer. He plans to attend Georgetown Law-School at night in the fall. I received a card from ED McGRATH, who tells me that he is workins for the firm of Anderson and Clayton Inc., inter­national commodity merchants on AVall St. Ed has decided to step up a level in society, so in the fall he is joining the Southern Club in Cranford, Xet\- Jersey. BOB LORENZ is at present cm­.ploycd by the Grace National Bank on Wall St., Ptloing security analysis for the trust department. DOUG KOCH has left New York City to work in San Diego, California, for Con\-air. JIM W.ARE­HAM has spent the summer working for U.S. Slee! in Chicago, In New Jersey, JOHN JULIANO has been working for General Electric. TOM EMMER is working for Emmer Bros. AVhoIesalc Lumber Co. selling lumber in the t^vin citv area. 
FLASH: DENNY O'SHAUGHNESSY is now 
miniatured to Kathy Davis, (S.M.C., Class of '61). 
PAT KEARNEY plans to attend law school in 
Chicago in the fall, probably at DePauI. This 
summer Pat was seen on a number of weekends 
at the Medical Center in Indianapolis. No one 
can figure out the reason why. One of Pat's close 
friends from Chicago, MICKEY RYAN, is attend­
ing grad school in New York in the fall. BOB 
BRADLEY of Rochester, Minnesota, passed the 
summer selling Fords in his home town. Tliis fall ktc'II leave for Wharton College to ^vork on his master's. 
DAVE KILROY is at Lackland Air Force Base 
in Texas. His brother Jay recently left for Fort 
Jackson, South Carolina, from where he will enter 
Army Intelligence School. Jay will still retain 
his post as alumni representative for the south­
eastern states. All mail can be directed to his 
home address and from there it will be forwarded 
to him wherever he is stationed. 
TOM CARPENTER is presently at Quantico, \'irginia. This summer he made several xisits to the home of MIKE ESPOSITO in Hackensack, Ne%v Jersey. Mike has been working at the Chase Manhattan Bank in New York City. BILL HALL, stationed at Moody Air Force Base in Georgia, became engaged to Miss Pat Hanley during the summer. The big day is December 23, 1961. RAY KELLY will start his career in the Marines at Ouantico, Virginia, on October 2nd. I received a letter from DICK PUGH in August and at that time he had completed seven weeks of pre-fllght training at the U.S. Naral Air Station in Pensa­cola, Florida. He hopes to graduate as an Ensign on the 20th of October. PAT O'BRIEN of Okla­homa and TI.M LYNCH of Michigan arc also in pre-flight training at Pcnsacola. JOHN NAUGH­TON will begin his two-year hitch in the Army at /Vberdcen ProWng Ground in Maryland. NICK FERLfVZZO, biding his time on the golf courses in Virginia, is tvaiting to enter Officer Candidate School in the Marines. The training starts on October 2, 1961. A few of the bovs also starting on the 2nd arc ROY REGAN, DICK BILLE.AUD, FRANK FASEL. JIM KENNY, GEORGE BREN­NAN, BILL WELSH, PETE SCHIPA, STEVE LEROUX, and TOM DcPRETORO. FRED JEN­KINS, an ensign in the U.S. Navy, is presently stationed in Long Beach, California. He is on a radar picket destroyer and in the gunncr>- division. 
BERNIE DOBRxVNSKI, alumni representative for the stale of "Pennsv-lvania, will start law school thb fall at the University of Virginia. Any corre­spondence after September 20th can be addressed to 101 Levering Hall, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia. JOHN "CAS" a\SA­RINO will begin medical school on September 6 at the Medical College of Alabama in Birmingham. Tliis summer he worked as a senior engineering aide in New York. (Not bad for a guy who can't use a slide rule). RON HERM of Louisville, Kentucky, will enter graduate studies in chemistry in September at the University of California under the sponsorship of the National Science Founda­tion. This past summer he was employed by the DuPont Co. in Louisville. BILL BENDER wJU start medical school at Duke in September. MATT KELLEHER will return to Notre Dame for gradu­ate work in mechanical engineering. DON RICE worked this summer as a chemical engineering for Humble Oil and Refining Co. in Baton Rouge, La. This fall he'll start his graduate work for a master of science degree in industrial management at Purdue. E.MMETT SHARKEY will be attend­ing Northwestern Medical School for the next four years. 
A National Science Foundation Fellowship has made it possible for BOB BURCKEL to attend Yale U. this fall where he will study to""ards a Ph.D. in mathematics. Bob had also won a Wood­row Wilson National Fellowship which, however, he declined In favor of the N.S.F.F. He spent the summer teaching In the math dept. at Notre Dame. KEN KUPPER will enter the U- of Louisville Law School in Sept. VINCE QUINN %vill attend business school in Pennsylvania In the fall. GENE WITCHGER, former captain of the N.D. swim­ming team, will attend Carnegie Tech grad school in Pittsburgh in Sept. STR.\T STEPHAN will be stationed in Korea after entering the army in earlv September. 
FL/\SH: MIKE McMAHON and DENNY KA­
SUN, on a summer tour of Europe, arc really 
tearing the place up. 
TIM HINCHEY, presently in the Na\-y, is sta­tioned In Hawaii. While preparing for his sue month stint In the army, BILL MURPHY has spent the summer selling automobiles In Blue Earth, Minnesota. TOM MELBY Is awaiting his departure in the Navy (OCS) in September. JIM CAIN of Indianapolis will abo enter the NavT (OCS) in the fall. Big ED DALY, after attend­ing summer school in Chicago, plans to enter the Navy some time this fall. 
Please direct all of your address changes to the Alumni Office on the Notre Dame Campus. Tlierc is still quite a few of you whom I have not been able to Include in my first three articles. I would greatly appreciate It If I could hear something from those of you whom I have missed. 
From the Alumni Office: STEPHEN M. MURRAY left on September 7 with 60 other volunteers on the CARE-Pcacc Corps Colombia project after two months of train­ing at Rutgers U. LEONARD E. SMITH of Chi­cago and JOHN R. OSIPOWICZ of Madison, Wis., joined the Chicago Tribune advertising department and went into the advertising training workshop along with the first four girls ever admitted to this previously all-male program. GEORGE E. O'CONNELL has entered the Holy Cross* Sacred Heart Novitiate, Jordan, Minn. And the Minnesota Twins sent their new bonus pitcher, JACK MITCHELL, into the farm system. Prayers of classmates are requested for THOMAS 
O. MURCH, who died of a heart defect on Sep­tember 5. Tom had just refused an opportunity for a ^Voodrow Wilson Fellowship in order to enter the Congregation of Holy Cross. He died four d3>-s before he was scheduled to enter the seminary at North Easton, Mass. Sincere sympathy to Tom's parents, Mr. and Mrs. ORVILLE MURCH, '28, 
Law Class of 1961 
John N. Nforeland Assistant County Attorney Wapello County Court House Ottumwa, Iowa 

D^I'T'T e''''^* correspondence I have is from ART ROULE, so might as well begin there. Art gave the Kussians a scare about a month ago when he got his mducllon notice, but since then has gotten a yo-day extension and hopes to get Into JAG 
r . ^^tw k " ^ "^'"•'*^ ""= «ecu:or of the estate of LEONARD FINGER.MAN in a rash moment! and rcqu^ts favorable treatment in the tax courts 
GfcR.\RDO. I'll manage to figure out the marital deduction some new way, and that will keep them confused. Art also promised to get an appropriate sign hung on the Brandenbcrg Gate bv the first 
HnrpirJT-^ '''."'^^ ^'°°^ J^CK and Jeanne HOFFER kept us informed of the South Bend­.Mishawafca happenings during the early part of the summer. Jack is bus>- at work with Schindler, Schindlcr and Kramer. TONY and Lvnn BONNI­WELL have another girl, their third, bom about the second of July. By the time this article is printed, jn f CASEY will have joined the ranks of the newl>-%veds. Jim is staying in South Bend dur­ing the time he Is clerking. JOHN COFFEE Is on his way to Navy JAG duty after taking the nimois Bar Exam. JOHN DUNN contributed that last neivs, and also told of a gathering of .MASON SULLIVAN, JOHN PL.\TTNER, ROD MCTTE, JOHN COFFEE and himself in Chicago recently. John was engaged to Barbara Burke ol Chicago via SMC and of course all our condolences to HER. John ventured the guess that Bernic, Dusty and Connie collaborated to %vrlte the 111. bar exam questions. JLM TAL.AGA has gone to work for the Commerce Dept. in Washington, D.C, after the Iowa bar exam, and plans service duty before long. GARY MUMBLE'S mother was kind enough to invite me over for an evening while I was com­muting between here and Des Molnrs earlier this summer. Gary Is In Clearwater, Michigan, in private practice. I heard somewhere that MIKE O'BRIEN is in Rock Island, 111., but haven't found my source. TTiat about covers the news. Drop me a line when It moves you. 
YOUR DOLLAR 

FOR 21 CHRISTiMAS CARDS 
(Variety Assortnienf by Cresfcard Incorporated) 

HELPS OUR MISSIONARIES TO EXTEND THE FRONTIERS OF GOD'S KINGDOM IN BRAZIL 
CHILE 
GHANA 
INDIA PAKISTAN and UGANDA 

Send your name and address vAth your order and donation to: 
Dujarie Foreign Mission Society Brothers of Holy &o$s Oiiiaiie Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 
The University of Notre Dame 
Alumni Association 
October 2, 1961 Dear Alumnus: 
Ever)' sign indicates that the Notre Dame Alumni are facing up to their greatest challenge — and that success is not only possible, but probable. Each of you should have been called upon by now to make a sacrificial contribution to Notre Dame's great expansion program. Without any doubt — the current Notre Dame Library Fund Drive is the most important activity for all alumni groups since the formation of our Association. 
The first reports indicate that the level of giving has been measurably improved — but we must urge all of you to stretch your financial capacity to assure the success of the current Notre Dame Capital Gifts Drive to raise $12 million from friends and alumni. If by chance you have not been approached by one of your local alumni — please take positive action and notify your local Club President that you wish to make a contribution. Besides this — everj' local alumni club will continue to need additional volunteers to actively solicit and sell other alumni on the importance of this current campaign and the future of Notre Dame. 
At the fall meeting of the Alumni Board which will be held October 13-14-15th — the Board will inaugurate a slight change in our committee assignments and responsibilities. In past years — it has been the custom for various officials of the University to visit with the .\lumni Board so that we might be better informed with regard to the Administration problems. Under this new program — which has been approved by our Executive Vice President, Father Joyce — three mem­bers of the Alumni Board will serve on special committees for Student Affairs, Athletics, Public Relations, and Admissions. These three members of the Board will meet on Friday morning with the University representatives who are in charge of these segments of University Administration. 
It is intended that these meetings will be on a very informal basis and that the Alumni Board will then be able to work more closely with the Administration officials. We hope that these meet­ings will conserve tlie limited time of the heads of the various University departments, and that the Alumni Committees might be able to make constructive recommendations in an advisory capac­ity. The Chairman of these four committees will tlien report to the entire Alumni Board during tlie meeting on Friday afternoon. The other major committees of the Alumni Board will continue to function in their most effective manner. 
Just a final word concerning tlie Library Fund Drive. Please be generous — please work all of your cards promptly—and above all, make your own contribution before asking other alumni to make their pledges. Most important, let's continue to pray daily for success. 
Best regards. 

cr>o v^-^--^^?*-*'-^ 
WALTER L. FLEMING, JR., '40 President 
PRINIZD AT AVE MARIA 









